History  of 
Bengali  Literature 


Dr.  Sukumar  Sen 


Foreword  by 

Jawaharlal  Nehru 


SAHITYA  AKADEMI 


NEW  DELHI 


DUKE 

UNIVERSITY 


LIBRARY 


\ 


1 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


HflUT/  H3TIJ  IJAOViaa  HO.Y-HOT2IH 


HISTORY  OF  ! 

BENGALI  LITERATURE 


by 

Dr.  SUKUMAR  SEN,  m.a.,  ph.d. 

KHAIRA  PROFESSOR  OF  INDIAN  LINGUISTICS  AND  PHONETICS  AND 
HEAD  OF  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  COMPARATIVE  PHILOLOGY 
UNIVERSITY  OF  CALCUTTA 


Foreword  by 

Jawaharlal  Nehru 


SAHITYA  AKADEMI 

NEW  DELHI 


First  published  January  1960 

v ,v  11  ' '*  1 -j 

(Cj  Sahitya  Akademi,  New  Delhi 

! l;J  LI  l ! 


Published  by  Sahitya  Akademi,  74  Theatre  Comm.  Bldgs.,  Connaught  Circus, 
New  Delhi  ; and  printed  by  P.  C.  Ray  at  Sri  Gouranga  Press  Private  Ltd., 
5 Chintamani  Das  Lane,  Calcutta-9.  Rights  of  distribution  with  the  Publica- 
tions Division,  Old  Secretariat,  Dclhi-8 


FOREWORD 


Many  months  ago  Professor  Sukumar  Sen  sent  me  a proof 
copy  of  his  book  on  the  History  of  Bengali  Literature  and 
asked  me  to  write  a foreword  to  it.  My  immediate  reaction 
was  not  in  favour  of  this  proposal.  It  seemed  to  me 
presumptuous  that  I,  knowing  so  very  little  about  Bengali 
literature,  should  presume  to  write  such  a foreword  to  a book 
by  a scholar. 

At  the  same  time  I was  attracted  by  the  subject  and  was 
eager  to  learn  something  about  this  great  literature  of  ours. 
I kept  the  proof  copy  of  Professor  Sukumar  Sen’s  book  with 
me  and  travelled  about  with  it,  dipping  into  it  whenever 
time  permitted.  And  so  months  have  passed  and  I owe  an 
apology  to  Professor  Sen  and  to  the  Sahitya  Akademi  which 
has  sponsored  this  book. 

It  was  a happy  idea  of  the  Sahitya  Akademi  to  organize 
the  publication  of  historical  studies  of  the  literatures  of  our 
various  languages  in  India.  One  of  the  principal  functions 
of  the  Sahitya  Akademi  is  to  encourage  all  these  great 
languages  of  India  and  to  bring  them  closer  to  each  other. 
Their  roots  and  inspiration  have  been  much  the  same  and 
the  mental  climate  in  which  they  have  grown  up  has  been 
similar.  All  of  them  have  also  faced  the  same  type  of  impact 
from  Western  thought  and  influence.  Even  the  languages 
of  Southern  India,  with  their  different  origins,  have  grown 
up  in  similar  conditions.  It  may,  therefore,  be  said  that 
each  of  these  great  languages  is  not  merely  the  language  of 
a part  of  India,  but  is  essentially  a language  of  India, 
representing  the  thought  and  culture  and  development  of 
this  country  in  its  manifold  forms. 

It  may  not  be  possible  for  many  of  us  to  have  a direct 
acquaintance  with  the  literatures  of  our  various  languages. 


VI 


FOREWORD 


But  it  is  certainly  desirable  that  every  person  of  India  who 
claims  to  be  educated  should  know  something  about 
languages  other  than  his  own.  He  should  be  acquainted  with 
the  classics  and  the  famous  books  written  in  those  languages 
and  thus  imbibe  into  his  being  the  broad  and  many-sided 
bases  of  India’s  culture. 

In  order  to  help  in  this  process,  the  Sahitya  Akademi 
has  been  bringing  out  translations  of  well-known  books  from 
each  of  our  languages  into  others  and  is  sponsoring  these 
histories  of  Indian  literatures.  The  Akademi  is  thus 
widening  and  deepening  the  basis  of  our  cultural  knowledge 
and  making  people  realise  the  essential  unity  of  India’s 
thought  and  literary  background. 

In  the  old  days,  Sanskrit,  with  its  depth,  richness  and 
magnificence,  overshadowed  and  prevented  the  growth  of  our 
regional  languages.  Later,  Persian  also  rather  came  in  the 
way  of  this  growth.  In  Europe,  Latin  and  Greek  had  played 
this  role  in  regard  to  the  national  languages  of  European 
countries  and  it  was  only  gradually,  at  the  time  of  the  Renais- 
sance and  later,  that  the  national  languages  began  to  grow. 
Sanskrit  had  obviously  a far  deeper  hold  on  the  Indian  mind 
than  Latin  or  Greek  could  have  on  the  European  mind.  It 
was  of  the  soil  and  intimately  tied  up  with  the  faith,  the 
traditions,  the  mythology  and  the  philosophic  background 
of  the  race. 

This  perhaps  explains  the  delay  in  the  full  development 
of  our  national  languages.  And  yet  it  is  interesting  and  a 
little  surprising  to  find  how  far  the  beginnings  of  our 
present-day  languages  of  India  go  back.  Tamil,  of  course, 
stands  by  itself  and  goes  back  to  a remote  period.  In  reading 
Professor  Sen’s  book,  I have  been  interested  in  this  gradual 
emergence  of  the  Bengali  language  from  Prakrit  and 
Apabhramsa.  As  usual,  we  find  at  the  beginning  devotional 
and  lyric  songs  and  mystical  poetry,  followed  by  narrative 
poetry.  Gradually  literary  prose  develops,  and  drama  and, 
finally,  fiction.  Professor  Sen  gives  many  details  about  past 


FOREWORD 


Vll 


writers.  What  I have  been  interested  in  is  the  broad  sweep 
of  the  progress  of  the  Bengali  language  and,  especially,  in  its 
development  during  more  or  less  recent  times  when  it  was 
reacting  to  Western  influences.  Ram  Mohan  Roy,  Ishwar 
Chandra  Vidyasagar,  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt,  Bankim 
Chandra  Chatterjee,  Romesh  Chandra  Dutt,  Sarat  Chandra 
Chatterjee  and,  in  a somewhat  different  line,  Kazi  Nazrul 
Islam  stand  out  as  peaks  in  this  story  of  development.  But 
towering  above  others  came  that  remarkable  family  which 
was  great  in  literature,  painting,  music  and  every  form  of 
art — the  Tagores. 

For  most  of  us  from  outside  Bengal,  the  name  of 
Rabindranath  Tagore  is  almost  synonymous  with  the  high 
achievement  of  Bengali  literature.  People  of  my  generation 
grew  up  under  the  influence  of  his  tremendous  personality 
and  were  consciously  or  unconsciously  moulded  by  it.  Here 
was  a man  like  an  ancient  Rishi  of  India,  deeply  versed  in 
our  old  wisdom  and,  at  the  same  time,  dealing  with  present- 
day  problems  and  looking  at  the  future.  He  wrote  in  Bengali, 
but  the  scope  of  his  mind  could  not  be  confined  to  any  part 
of  India.  It  was  essentially  Indian  and,  at  the  same  time, 
embraced  all  humanity.  He  was  national  and  international, 
and  meeting  him,  or  reading  what  he  wrote,  one  had  the 
feeling,  which  comes  but  rarely,  of  approaching  a high 
mountain  peak  of  human  experience  and  wisdom. 

For  all  his  greatness,  Rabindranath  was  not  a person 
who  lived  in  an  ivory  tower.  He  accepted  life  and  wanted 
to  live  it  fully  and,  in  a sense,  all  his  activities  had  something 
to  do  with  life.  As  he  wrote  to  a friend,  “truth  is  good  and 
wholesome  if  it  is  connected  in  some  way  or  other  with  the 
life  of  man.” 

Tagore  also,  probably  more  than  others,  helped  in  the 
process  described  by  Professor  Sen  as  bridging  the  gulf 
between  the  language  of  the  pen  and  the  language  of  the 
tongue.  That  lesson  has  yet  to  be  learnt  by  many  writers 
in  India.  A great  literature  has  to  be  understood  by  the 


Vlll 


FOREWORD 


people  and  not  remain  pedantic,  mysterious  and  difficult  to 
understand. 

I commend  this  book  to  all  those  who  are  interested  in 
Indian  literatures. 


Circuit  House, 


Dehra  Dun. 
November  14,  1959 


PREFACE 


In  the  following  pages  I have  attempted  to  give  a brief  but 
essentially  complete  survey  of  literary  activities  in  Bengali 
since  the  appearance  of  that  speech.  My  terminus  ad  quern 
is  1941,  the  year  when  Rabindranath  Tagore  died  and  when 
the  second  world  war  was  knocking  at  our  door.  In  the 
introductory  chapters  linguistic  and  literary  affinities  of  New 
Indo-Aryan  speeches  (of  which  Bengali  is  one)  have  been 
sketched  and  the  origin  and  development  of  the  Bengali 
language  as  well  as  of  the  Bengali  script  has  been  given 
in  outline. 

The  treatment  has  been  objective  throughout  and  while 
writing  the  book  I had  never  forgotten  that  it  is  meant  for 
the  general  reader  who  may  not  know  any  Bengali. 

I am  profoundly  thankful  to  Sri  Jawaharlal  Nehru, 
President  of  Sahitya  Akademi,  for  writing  the  Foreword. 


S.  S. 


j . 

i ■ :v.:I 

i j 

' . :'j;;  )7i  Off 

. . ' ' / 

c:  : " L-fii 


CONTENTS 


1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 
11. 
12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 
21. 
22. 


Foreword  Page  v 

Preface  ix 

Evolution  of  the  Language  and  Script  1 

The  Pre- vernacular  Background  11 

Forms  of  Early  Poetry  20 

Old  Bengali  Poetry  and  Mysticism  27 

The  Dark  Centuries  and  the  Emergence  of 
the  Cult  Themes  37 

From  the  Fifteenth  to  the  Early  Sixteenth 

Century  66 

Chaitanya  and  His  Movement  82 

The  New  Urge  in  Literature  94 

Vaishnav  Lyric  Songs  and  Narrative  Poetry  103 
The  Tradition  of  Court  Patronage  115 

Narrative  Poetry  on  CandI  and  Manasa  121 

The  Seventeenth  Century  132 

The  Arrakan  Poets  and  the  Later  Muslim 

Writers  1 49 


The  Eighteenth  Century:  Its  Tendencies 
and  Effects  160 

Development  of  Literary  Prose  178 

The  Western  Stage  and  the  Early  Days  of 
the  Bengali  Drama  191 

Forerunners  of  the  New  Poetry  204 

Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt  and  his  Fol-  . 

lowers  212 

Prose  Fiction  and  Bankim  Candra  Chatterji  229 
The  Theatre  245 

The  Romantics  258 

Rabindranath  Tagore  273 


Xll 


CONTENTS 


23.  Beginning  of  the  Twentieth  Century  Page  320 


24.  World  War  to  Non-Co-operation  332 

25.  Independence  Movement  to  Another  World 

War  353 

Appendix  381 

Bibliography  419 

Index  425 


1 


EVOLUTION  OF  THE  LANGUAGE 

AND  SCRIPT 


Bengali  belongs  to  the  easternmost  branch,  called  Aryan  or 
Indo-Iranian,  of  the  Indo-European  family  of  languages. 
Its  direct  ancestor  is  a form  of  Prakrit  or  Middle  Indo-Aryan 
which  had  descended  from  Sanskrit  or  Old  Indo-Aryan. 
Sanskrit  was  the  spoken  as  well  as  the  literary  language  of 
Aryandom  until  circa  500  b.c.,  after  which  it  remained  for 
nearly  two  thousand  years  the  dominant  literary  language  as 
well  as  the  lingua  franca  among  the  cultured  and  the  erudite 
throughout  the  subcontinent.  Sanskrit  has  always  been  a 
potent  influence  in  the  evolution  of  Indo-Aryan  through  all 
its  stages  of  linguistic  and  literary  history. 

By  the  fifth  century  b.c.  Indo-Aryan  (i.e.  Sanskrit  as 
spoken  by  the  masses)  had  developed  dialectal  characteristics, 
and  by  250  b.c.  its  structure  had  completed  certain  definite 
changes.  The  structural  change  was  such  that  the  language 
now  presented  a phase  that  was  different  from  Old  Indo- 
Aryan,  although  there  was  as  yet  no  question  of  mutual 
unintelligibility.  This  new  phase  of  Indo-Aryan  is  called 
Middle  Indo-Aryan,  or  in  a broad  sense  Prakrit. 

The  edicts  of  Asoka  ( circa  250  b.c.)  are  the  oldest  known 
records  of  contemporary  spoken  Aryan  languages  in  India, 
and  these  records  present  the  Middle  Indo-Aryan  language 
in  the  four  regional  varieties  or  dialects,  viz.  north-western, 
south-western,  east  central  and  eastern.  These  regional 
dialects,  themselves  changing  in  course  of  time,  continued 
as  the  spoken  languages  of  Aryan-speaking  India  for  more 
than  a thousand  years,  until  they  underwent  another  drastic 
change  of  character  and  developed  into  the  several  New  Indo- 
Aryan  languages  we  speak  now. 

The  Middle  Indo-Aryan  language  (or  dialects,  to  be 
precise)  naturally  did  not  remain  static  like  Sanskrit  during 
its  history  of  a millennium  and  a half.  In  its  earliest 


2 


HISTORY  OT  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


form,  as  seen  in  the  epigraphical  records  belonging  to 

the  pre-Christian  centuries,  Middle  Indo-Aryan  looks  like 
a mutilated  and  simplified  form  of  Sanskrit,  and  its 

dialects  were  not  so  sharply  differentiated  from  one  another 
as  to  become  mutually  unintelligible.  Epigraphical  records 
in  the  pre-Christian  centuries  are  all  written  in  Middle 
Indo-Aryan.  For  the  first  two  centuries  after  Christ, 

Middle  Indo-Aryan  continued  to  be  used  almost  exclusively 
as  such,  but  in  these  records  a growing  influence  of 

Sanskrit  diction  is  progressively  noticeable.  This  indicates 
that  the  Middle  Indo-Aryan  was  then  fast  receding  from  the 
Old  Indo-Aryan  pattern  and  that  the  Middle  Indo-Aryan 
dialects  were  then  becoming  mutually  unintelligible.  By 
a.d.  400  Sanskrit  became  the  supreme  language  and  by  this 
time  some  of  the  regional  Middle  Indo-Aryan  speeches,  the 
Prakrits  of  the  old  grammarians,  had  developed  a rigid 
literary  form. 

But  long  before  that,  Middle  Indo-Aryan  had  evolved 
a powerful  literary  language  under  the  overall  influence  of 
Sanskrit.  This  is  Pali  of  the  southern  Buddhists.  It  is  based 
on  a western  or  west-central  dialect.  But  outside  of  Buddhism 
a simpler  form  of  it  was  used  as  a kind  of  lingua  franca  from 
one  end  to  the  other  of  Aryan-speaking  India.  This  common 
literary  language  appears  in  the  Udayagiri  cave  inscription  of 
Kharavela  (first  century  b.c.)  at  Bhuvaneswar  in  Orissa.  It 
seems  to  have  been  developed  in  Malwa  (Ujjain-Bhilsa 
region)  which  was  a centre  not  only  of  commerce  and  foreign 
contact  but  was  a hub  of  religion  and  culture  as  well.  Speakers 
of  the  different  Middle  Indo-Aryan  dialects  and  of  other 
languages  from  and  outside  India  assembled  here  so  that 
there  was  a necessity  and  urgency  for  the  evolution  of  a 
common  Indian  language.  It  may  be  remembered  in  this 
connection  that  Pali,  especially  in  its  later  phase,  was  used  by 
persons  whose  mother-tongue  was  not  Indo-Aryan. 

Dravidian  has  always  been  the  other  most  important 
linguistic  stock  in  India.  A very  large  number  of  Sanskrit 


EVOLUTION  OF  THE  LANGUAGE  AND  SCRIPT 


3 


vocables  came  from  Dravidian,  and  the  influence  of  the  latter 
in  the  structural  development  of  the  former  is  far  from 
negligible.  It  is  quite  conceivable  that  it  was  the  impact  of 
the  Dravidian  speeches  that  largely  conditioned  the  change 
of  Old  Indo-Aryan  to  Middle  Indo-Aryan.  It  is  an  admitted 
fact  that  the  influx  of  Dravidian  words  in  Sanskrit  was 
the  largest  during  the  few  centuries  immediately  preceding 
the  Christian  era,  and  this  was  the  formative  period  of  Middle 
Indo-Aryan.  The  Dravidian  influence  therefore  was  inherent 
in  Middle  Indo-Aryan,  and  Bengali  as  well  as  its  sister  Indo- 
Aryan  speeches  show  the  impact  of  Dravidian  mainly  as 
an  inheritance. 

The  influence  of  the  third  linguistic  stock,  Austro- 
Asiatic,  was  no  less  significant  than  that  of  Dravidian, 
although  in  Indo-Aryan  the  extent  of  this  influence  has  not 
yet  been  fully  gauged.  There  was  obviously  a large  borrowing 
of  essential  vocables,  but  the  absence  of  any  literary  record 
of  the  Austro-Asiatic  speeches  of  India  stands  in  the  way 
of  a precise  estimation  of  its  influence  on  the  phonology  and 
grammar  of  Indo-Aryan.  Nevertheless  in  the  contents  of 
Indo-Aryan  literature,  especially  in  the  motifs  of  folk-tales 
and  of  some  important  myths,  the  existence  of  a substantial 
Austro-Asiatic  substratum  is  undeniable. 

The  fourth  linguistic  stock  in  India  is  Tibeto-Chinese. 
Its  influence  in  Indo-Aryan  is  confined  to  the  borrowing  of 
a very  limited  number  of  words.  On  the  New  Indo-Aryan 
languages  spoken  in  the  regions  nearest  to  the  foothills  of 
the  Himalayas  the  impact  of  the  Tibeto-Chinese  has  been 
considerable.  But  here  also,  except  in  Assamese  and  in  some 
contiguous  dialects  of  Bengali  where  the  phonology  was  some- 
what affected,  the  structure  of  Indo-Aryan  remains  un- 
changed. 

The  development  of  Indo-Aryan  from  its  earliest  form 
to  the  latest  shows  the  following  strata: 

A.  Old  Indo-Aryan:  (i)  spoken,  (ii)  literary  (Vedic  and 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 

classical  Sanskrit),  and  (iii)  mixed  Sanskrit. 

Middle  Indo-Aryan,  evolved  out  of  the  spoken  Old 
Indo-Aryan  and  showing  three  stages:  (i)  Primary 
Middle  Indo-Aryan  recorded  in  the  Asokan  and 
other  early  inscriptions,  and  Pali  ; (ii)  Secondary 
Middle  Indo-Aryan  or  the  Prakrits,  represented  by 
Maharastri,  Sauraseni,  PaisacI,  ArdhamagadhI  and 
Magadhi ; and  (iii)  Tertiary  Middle  Indo-Aryan 
represented  by  Apabhramsa  and  its  later  phase 
Laukika  or  Apabhrasta  (Avahattha). 

New  Indo-Aryan  evolved  out  of  Apabhramsa  and 
Laukika  and  represented  by  the  modern  Indo- 
Aryan  speeches  such  as  Assamese,  Avadhi,  Bengali, 
Bhojpuri,  Gujarati,  Hindi,  Kashmiri,  Marathi, 
Maithili,  Nepali,  Oriya,  Panjabi,  Rajasthani, 
Sindhi,  etc. 

Like  Sanskrit,  Apabhramsa-Avahattha  was  a literary 
language,  and  in  the  available  records  it  shows  remarkably 
little  local  variation  ; practically  the  same  form  of  the  lan- 
guage appears  in  poems  written  in  Gujarat  and  in  Bengal. 
But  the  spoken  language  conditioned  by  the  regional 
linguistic  and  ethnic  environments  took  up  the  different 
regional  characteristics,  culminating  in  the  birth  of  the 
different  regional  New  Indo-Aryan  languages.  The  emer- 
gence of  these  New  Indo-Aryan  speeches  was  not  all 
synchronized.  But  some  of  them,  including  Bengali,  certainly 
originated  by  the  middle  of  the  tenth  century  at  the  latest. 

Since  its  origin  from  Apabhramsa-Avahattha,  the  Bengali 
language  has  passed  through  two  successive  stages  of  develop- 
ment which  may  be  called  Old  and  Middle  Bengali.  It  is 
now  in  its  third  or  modern  stage.  The  Old  Bengali  stage 
roughly  covered  the  period  950-1350.  The  Middle  Bengali 
stage  stretched  from  1350  to  1800,  and  the  modern  Bengali 


EVOLUTION  OF  THE  LANGUAGE  AND  SCRIPT 


5 


stage  has  commenced  from  1800.  The  Middle  Bengali 
stage  presents  two  distinct  strata,  the  early  and  the  late.  The 
early  Middle  Bengali  period  was  1350-1500  and  the  late 
Middle  Bengali  period  1500-1800.  The  main  features  distin- 
guishing the  late  Middle  Bengali  from  the  early  are:  (i)  the 
creation  of  plural  case-endings  of  nouns  and  pronouns,  (ii)  dis- 
appearance of  the  distinction  of  number  in  the  finite  verb 
and  creation  of  the  periphrastic  tenses,  and  (iii)  admission 
of  a large  number  of  Persian  words. 

During  the  entire  Middle  Bengali  period  we  find  a 
distinct  poetic  language  or  jargon  that  was  cultivated  almost 
exclusively  by  the  Vaishnav  lyric  poets.  This  poetic  language 
or  Kunstsprachc  is  called  Brajabuli,  meaning  the  language  of 
Vraja  (Brindavan)  and  it  was  by  no  means  exclusively  used 
by  the  Bengali  writers.  The  Vaishnav  poets  from  Assam  and 
a few  devotees  from  Orissa  also  wrote  in  Brajabuli.  The 
language  has  as  its  basis  the  tradition  of  Avahattha  poetry 
strengthened  by  the  pattern  of  early  Maithili  poets  like 
Umapati  and  Vidyapati  who  were  among  the  first  to  cultivate 
the  diction.  There  was  no  doubt  the  influence  of  the  local 
language,  but  that  influence  emerged  only  towards  the  end 
of  the  Middle  Bengali  period.  The  vogue  of  Brajabuli  did 
not  die  out  with  Middle  Bengali.  With  the  strong  tradition 
of  Vaishnav  poetry  it  lingered  throughout  the  nineteenth 
century.  Its  last  great  writer  was  the  young  Rabindranath 
Tagore.  The  most  fruitful  of  his  earliest  attempts  in  lyric 
composition  are  the  songs  written  in  Brajabuli  and  bearing 
the  signature  ‘Bhanusimha’. 

For  old  Bengali  the  only  records  are  the  mystic  carya 
songs  discovered  in  a MS  from  Nepal  by  Haraprasad  Shastri, 
a few  fragments  of  such  songs  and  verses  quoted  in  some  old 
texts  and  commentaries,  some  four  hundred  words  occurring 
in  Sarvananda’s  commentary  on  Amarakosa  and  a few  place- 
names  and  stray  words  occurring  in  the  copper-plate  grants 
dating  between  the  ninth  and  the  thirteenth  century. 

The  language  of  the  carya  songs  betrays  some  lingering 


6 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


traces  of  Avahattha,  but  that  is  not  at  all  unexpected. 
Avahattha  was  besides  Sanskrit  the  only  other  literary  lan- 
guage of  the  day,  and  some  of  the  writers  of  the  carya  songs 
wrote  also  in  Avahattha  (and  in  Sanskrit  too). 

The  language  of  the  carya  songs  is  basically  vernacular, 
but  at  the  same  time  it  is  also  something  of  a literary  language. 
The  main  dialect  seems  to  have  been  that  of  West  Bengal, 
but  there  are  ample  traces  of  dialectal  variation,  indicating 
that  the  writers  did  not  all  belong  to  West  Bengal. 

Middle  Bengali  as  a whole  appears  as  a pan-Bengali 
literary  language  based  mainly  on  the  dialect  of  West  Bengal. 
But  the  early  writers  hailing  from  the  different  parts  of  the 
country  and  its  fringes  did  not  hesitate  to  use  their  own 
dialectal  forms  and  idioms.  For  instance,  some  of  the  most 
influential  followers  of  Chaitanya  came  from  Sylhet  and 
Chittagong,  and  through  their  writings  a good  number  of 
words  from  the  dialects  of  those  regions  were  introduced  in 
the  written  language.  There  was  a steady  flow  of  Sanskrit 
words  (apart  from  those  inherited,  which  form  the  basic  part 
of  the  vocabulary  of  the  language)  and  these  came  generally 
via  the  popular  mythological  and  epic  stories  that  formed 
some  of  the  main  themes  of  Middle  Bengali  literature.  Con- 
tinued borrowing  from  Sanskrit  no  doubt  strengthened  the 
literary  language  but  at  the  same  time  it  was  accentuating 
its  separation  from  the  spoken  tongue. 

At  first  the  divergent  tendency  was  somewhat  checked 
by  the  slow  but  increasing  percolation  of  Persian  (including 
Arabic  and  some  Turki)  words  in  the  language,  and  this  kept 
the  written  and  spoken  forms  of  the  language  near  to  each 
other.  So  long  as  Bengal  remained  an  independent  kingdom 
the  Persian  borrowings  were  confined  to  essential  words  and 
therefore  limited  in  number.  But  from  the  later  part  of  the 
sixteenth  century  when  Akbar  annexed  the  country  to  his 
empire  there  remained  no  longer  any  barrier  to  the  flow 
of  such  foreign  words  into  the  Bengali  vocabulary. 

The  administration  was  now  mainly  in  the  hands  of 


EVOLUTION  OF  THE  LANGUAGE  AND  SCRIPT 


7 


Muslim  officers  from  Delhi  and  Agra,  who  naturally  cared 
little  for  the  culture  of  the  province  and  nothing  for  its 
language.  Persian  was  the  official  language  of  administration, 
law  and  commerce.  Agra  and  Delhi  directed  the  fashion  of 
the  ambitious  and  the  elite,  and  inter-provincial  communica- 
tion and  commerce  were  considerable  and  uninterrupted. 
The  inflow  of  Persian  words  was  accelerated  till  the  middle 
of  the  eighteenth  century  when  the  English  took  over  the 
administration  of  the  province.  But  by  that  time  Bengali 
had  acquired  more  than  two  thousand  more  or  less  essential 
foreign  vocables,  developed  even  a case-ending  or  two  out  of 
Persian  (and  Arabic)  and  evolved  a documentary  prose  style 
that  was  as  much  Bengali  as  Persian.  Now  English  words, 
at  first  only  those  very  necessary  in  business  and  administra- 
tion of  law,  began  to  be  adopted  in  Bengali,  but  the  position 
and  influence  of  Persian  was  not  impaired  until  the  fourth 
decade  of  the  nineteenth  century,  1838  to  be  exact,  when 
Bengali  and  English  replaced  Persian  in  the  field  of  law, 
revenue  and  administration. 

During  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries  another 
European  language  had  contributed  not  a few  words  that 
became  essential  vocables  in  Bengali.  This  was  Portuguese. 
The  Portuguese  traders  and  adventurers  brought  many  new 
commodities  in  India,  and  these  commodities  with  their 
Portuguese  names  came  to  stay  permanently.  The  Portuguese 
missionaries  brought  Christianity  in  Bengal,  and  naturally 
there  came  in  a number  of  Portuguese  words  relating  to  the 
Church  and  worship,  used  by  the  Bengali  followers  of  the 
Catholic  faith.  But  excepting  two,  girja — church,  and 
padri — Christian  priest,  such  words  were  not  adopted  in  the 
general  vocabulary  of  the  language. 

With  the  consolidation  of  the  British  power  and  spread 
of  English  education  English  began  to  exert  an  increasing 
influence  on  Bengali.  This  influence  is  evident  mainly  in 
two  directions:  one,  adoption  of  English  words  which  had 
no  synonyms  or  near-synonvms  in  Bengali  or  the  objects 


8 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


signified  by  the  words  were  unknown  in  the  land  ; two, 
development  of  a Bengali  literary  prose  style  under  a not 
very  direct  influence  of  the  English  language  and  literature. 
There  can  be  no  question  of  conscious  imitation  or  borrowing 
here,  but  modern  Bengali  prose  possesses  many  idioms,  turns 
and  twists  of  expression  which  were  undoubtedly  induced 
by  the  thought-pattern  of  English. 

There  are  four  main  regional  dialect  groups  of  Bengali 
clearly  noticeable  from  the  seventeenth  century.  These  are: 
(i)  the  dialects  of  West  Bengal  proper  ; (ii)  the  dialects  of 
North  Bengal  ; (iii)  the  dialects  of  North-east  Bengal,  to 
which  Old  Assamese  was  once  closely  connected  ; and  (iv)  the 
dialects  of  East  and  South-east  Bengal.  Between  the  first 
two  the  difference  is  not  always  very  sharp.  It  is  quite 
probable  that  originally  a single  dialect  was  spoken  over  West 
and  North  Bengal.  The  third  dialect  group  shows  a probable 
impact  of  the  neighbouring  non-Aryan  speeches.  The  sub- 
dialect of  South-east  Bengal,  however,  shows  considerable 
impact  of  the  Tibeto-Burman  speeches  on  its  peculiar 
phonetic  development.  The  sub-dialect  of  East  Bengal  in- 
dicates some  affinity  with  the  dialect  of  West  Bengal  as  there 
was  continuous  migration  of  the  upper  class  people  from  the 
west  to  the  east. 

Bengali  at  the  present  day  has  two  literary  styles.  One 
is  called  ‘Sadhubhasa’  (elegant  language)  and  the  other 
‘Calitbhasa’  (current  language).  The  former  is  the  tradi- 
tional literary  style  based  on  Middle  Bengali  of  the  sixteenth 
century.  The  latter  is  practically  a creation  of  the  present 
century,  and  is  based  on  the  cultivated  form  of  the  dialect 
(the  standard  colloquial)  spoken  in  Calcutta  by  the  educated 
people  originally  coming  from  districts  bordering  on  the 
lower  reaches  of  the  Hooghly.  The  difference  between  the 
two  literary  styles  is  not  very  sharp.  The  vocabulary  is 
practically  the  same.  The  difference  lies  mainly  in  the  forms 
of  the  pronoun  and  the  verb.  The  Sadhubhasa  has  the  old 
and  heavier  forms  while  the  Calitbhasa  uses  the  modern 


EVOLUTION  OF  THE  LANGUAGE  AND  SCRIPT 


9 


and  lighter  forms.  The  former  shows  a partiality  for  lexical 
words  and  for  compound  words  of  the  Sanskrit  type,  and 
the  latter  prefers  colloquial  words,  phrases  and  idioms. 
The  Calitbhasa  was  first  seriously  taken  up  by  Pramatha 
Chaudhuri  at  the  instance  of  Rabindranath  Tagore  during 
the  early  years  of  the  first  World  War.  Soon  after  Tagore 
practically  discarded  the  Sadhubhasa,  and  Calitbhasa  is  now 
generally  favoured  by  writers  who  have  no  particular 
fascination  for  the  traditional  literary  style.  The  Sadhubhasa 
is  always  easy  to  write  but  it  is  somewhat  faded  in  signification 
and  jaded  in  rhythm. 


The  Bengali  script,  like  all  other  Indian  scripts,  origi- 
nated from  the  Brahml  alphabet  of  the  Asokan  inscriptions. 
The  old  Maurya  alphabet  of  the  Asokan  inscriptions  shows 
two  varieties,  the  northern  and  the  southern.  From  the 
northern  Brahml  was  developed  the  Northern  Indian  Alpha- 
bet of  the  Gupta  empire.  This  alphabet  had  an  eastern 
variety  which  appears  in  the  Dhanaidah  copper-plate  inscrip- 
tion of  the  time  of  Kumaragupta  (a.d.  432),  the  oldest  of  such 
records  found  in  Bengal.  The  next  stages  of  development  of 
this  eastern  alphabet  are  to  be  found  in  the  Khalimpur  grant 
of  Dharmapala  (latter  half  of  the  eighth  century)  and  the 
Bangarh  grant  of  Mahipala  (latter  half  of  the  tenth  century). 
The  letters  of  the  latter  inscription  can  be  rightly 
called  proto-Bengali.  The  fully  articulated  Bengali  alphabet 
appears  in  the  twelfth  century,  for  instance  in  the  Tarpan- 
dighi  grant  of  Laksmanasena  and  in  the  Cambridge  MSS 
of  Yogaratnamald  and  Pancaraksa  (a.d.  1200).  Thus  it 
appears  that  the  evolution  of  the  Bengali  script  almost 
synchronized  with  the  evolution  of  the  Bengali  language. 

After  the  twelfth  century,  the  Bengali  alphabet  under- 
went normal  development ; i.e.  there  were  changes  that  were 
bound  to  happen  in  regard  to  the  material  (first  palm-leaf, 
then  paper)  and  ease  of  writing.  Up  to  the  end  of  the 


10 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


eighteenth  century  there  were  so  to  say  two  styles  of  writing,, 
the  ornamental  and  the  ordinary.  The  ornamental  style  was 
cultivated  by  the  professional  scribes  who  prepared  records 
and  documents  and  by  Brahmin  scholars  when  they  made 
copies  of  valued  texts.  The  ordinary  style  appears  in  the 
bulk  of  the  Bengali  MSS  belonging  to  the  seventeenth 
century  and  later.  The  ornamental  style  was  bound  to  be 
archaic  ; it  was  practically  identical  with  the  Maithil  script, 
and  its  original  connection  with  Nagari  is  by  no  means 
obscure.  The  curious  reader  may  compare  the  older  style 
of  writing  found  in  the  MS  of  Srikrsnakutan  (copied  in  the 
seventeenth  or  the  eighteenth  century)  with  the  Nagari  MS 
of  Somasundarasuri’s  Balnvabodhani  (copied  in  1456  ; see 
Sastisataka,  Baroda,  1953). 

The  Bengali  alphabet  in  its  present  printed  form  took 
shape  in  1778  when  printing  types  were  first  cast  by  Charles 
Wilkins.  There  still  remained  a few  archaic  forms  and 
these  were  finally  replaced  in  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth 
century. 


2 

THE  PRE-VERNACULAR 
BACKGROUND 

We  know  that  in  its  earliest  phase  Middle  Indo-Aryan,  the 
direct  descendant  of  spoken  Old  Indo-Aryan.  did  not  differ 
materially  from  its  parent  and  that  on  the  whole  the  early 
Middle  Indo-Aryan  presented  a picture  that  was  very  close 
to  the  simpler,  spoken  form  of  Sanskrit.  The  use  of  the 
current  Middle  Indo-Aryan  speeches,  however,  appears  only 
in  the  epigraphical  records,  beginning  from  the  Asokan 
Edicts  of  the  third  century  b.c.  down  to  the  official  documents 
of  Shan-Shan  (Chinese  Turkistan)  in  the  third  and  fourth 
centuries  a.d.  This  use  of  the  current  speech  for  admi- 
nistrative purpose  was  not  very  long-lived  in  India  proper, 
except  in  the  north-western  region.  Sanskrit  soon  began  to 
emerge  as  its  rival.  But  the  struggle  between  the  classical 
language  and  the  popular  speech  was  protracted,  and  the 
first  epigraphical  record  in  Sanskrit,  the  Junagarh  rock 
inscription  of  Rudradaman  (second  century  a.d.),  is  a solitary 
achievement.  Nevertheless  the  influence  of  Sanskrit  on  docu- 
mentary Middle  Indo-Aryan  is  already  patent  in  the  inscrip- 
tions of  the  first  century  b.c.  The  Kalinga  king  Kharavela’s 
inscription  at  Udayagiri  shows  a Middle  Indo-Aryan  literary 
style  entirely  modelled  after  Sanskrit  and  closely  resembling 
Pali. 

Outside  the  early  epigraphical  records  the  Middle  Indo- 
Aryan  languages  are  purely  literary  products,  more  or  less 
overshadowed  by  Sanskrit.  These  literary  Middle  Indo- 
Aryan  speeches  were  at  first  employed  vigorously  by  the 
heterodox  religious  sects  such  as  Buddhism  and  Jainism. 
But  Sanskrit  was  not  entirely  ignored.  Some  schools  of 
Buddhism  employed  only  Sanskrit,  and  others  used  a hybrid 
speech,  a curious  mixture  of  Old  and  Middle  Indo-Aryan, 
known  as  Buddhistic  (hybrid)  Sanskrit.  The  Hinayana 
Buddhists  of  the  Theravada  school  cultivated  Pali  almost 


12 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


exclusively.  The  Jains  wrote  in  Ardhamagadhi  and  later 
also  in  Apabhramsa. 

Pali  is  based  on  a midland  dialect.  It  is  no  doubt  a 
Kunstsprache  that  was  originally  cultivated  mostly  by  writers 
speaking  an  alien  tongue.  Nevertheless  early  Pali  poetry 
contains  some  thinly  disguised  specimens  of  early  Middle 
Indo-Aryan  popular  poetry.  A good  instance  is  Dhaniya 
Sutta  which  is  a dialogue  between  Dhaniya,  a prosperous 
farmer,  and  the  Buddha,  recounting  the  superiority  of  the 
spiritual  good  over  the  earthly.  The  structure  of  the  poem 
echoes  the  style  of  the  dialogue  hymns  of  the  Rigveda.  The 
first  two  verses  are  translated  below: 

Dhaniya : My  rice  pot  is  boiling;  my  cows  are 

milked  ; I live  for  generations  on  the 
bank  of  Mahi ; My  cottage  is  well 
thatched  ; the  sacred  flame  is  kept  alight. 
Now,  (Rain-)god,  you  may  pour  as  much 
as  you  like. 

The  Buddha : I am  free  from  anger  ; my  passion  is 
gone  ; I stay  only  for  a night  on  the  bank 
of  the  Mahi ; I have  no  thatch  over  my 
head  ; the  fire  in  me  is  quenched.  Now, 
(Rain-)god,  you  may  pour  as  much  as 
you  like. 

Pali  poetry  has  preserved  in  an  older  form  the  didactic 
stories  that  were  forerunners  of  the  ancient  stories  of 
Pahcatantra.  The  Buddhist  compilers  or  editors  imparted 
to  these  didactic  tales  a sectarian  colouring  by  identifying 
the  heroes  of  each  and  every  tale  with  the  Buddha  in  one  of 
his  previous  births  or  incarnations  as  animal  or  man.  As 
such  these  tales  are  known  in  Buddhist  literature  as  ‘Jataka', 
i.e.  the  birth  (of  the  Buddha)  stories. 

Some  of  the  older  schools  of  Buddhism  used  a hybrid 
language,  Buddhistic  Sanskrit,  in  their  early  texts  ; the  most 
notable  of  such  works  are  Mahdvastu  and  Lalitavistara.  In 


THE  PRE-VERNACULAR  BACKGROUND 


13 


the  former  we  find  relics  of  older  versions  of  some  of  the 
old  Pali  poems  of  Suttanipdta  and  of  some  of  the  Jataka 
stories.  The  metrical  portions  of  Lalitavistara  are  remarkable 
for  the  language  and  the  metre,  which  both  show  close 
affinity  with  Apabhramsa. 

The  only  specimen  of  free  composition  in  Middle 
Indo-Aryan  is  a three-lined  verse  written  in  an  eastern  or 
east  central  dialect  entirely  agreeing  with  MagadhI  of  the 
Prakrit  grammarians.  It  is  found  inscribed  on  a wall  in  a 
cave  in  the  Ramgarh  hills  in  the  whilom  Sarguja  State.  The 
verse  is  in  the  Vedic  Jagatl  metre,  and  it  is  a forlorn  lover’s 
spontaneous  outburst.  It  reads  thus  in  translation: 

Sutanuka  by  name,  a temple  dancer  ; 

A man  from  Banaras  loved  her — 

Devadinna  by  name,  a coin  tester. 

From  the  script  it  is  inferred  that  the  inscription  belongs 
to  the  third  century  b.c. 

The  Prakrits  never  had  a common  literary  form 
that  could  be  used  throughout  Aryan-speaking  India.  But 
Apabhramsa,  which  is  generally  believed  to  have  been  a 
later  phase  of  the  Prakrits  but  in  reality  was  the  genuine 
representative  and  the  pan-Indian  form  of  Middle  Indo- 
Aryan,  was  used  practically  in  the  same  form  in  Northern 
India  end  to  end.  It  cannot  be  denied  that  Apabhramsa  had 
local  variations,  but  as  a humble  rival  of  Sanskrit  the  literary 
Apabhramsa  was  an  all-India  speech. 

The  Jains  of  Gujarat  and  Rajputana  were  enthusiastic, 
indefatigable  and  voluminous  writers  of  Apabhramsa  poetry. 
Their  works  are  Puranic  in  form  and  sectarian  in  spirit.  In 
western  India  Jaina  tradition  was  mainly  responsible  for 
the  continuity  of  Apabhramsa  (and  its  late  and  vernacularized 
form  ‘Pingal’)  long  after  the  emergence  and  establishment  of 
New  Indo-Aryan  in  these  regions.  The  Apabhramsa  tradition 
was  so  strong  here  that  even  some  Muslim  writers  were 
tempted  to  attempt  love  poetry  in  it. 


14 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


The  earliest  writer  of  pure  Apabhramsa  verse,  so  far  as 
we  know,  was  Kalidasa,  if  indeed  the  rhymed  songs  in  his 
Vikramorvasiya  are  not  spurious.  The  best  specimens  of 
Apabhramsa  poetry  is  to  be  found  in  stray  verses,  some  of 
which  were  collected  by  Hemacandra  (twelfth  century)  as 
illustrations  of  the  rules  of  his  Prakrit  grammar.  Such  verses 
belonged  to  a common  literary  stock  of  Indo-Aryan.  The 
following  verses  in  translation  would  illustrate  the  pithy 
poignancy  of  late  Apabhramsa  lyric  poetry. 

Days  gallop  in  and  out,  and  hopes  and  desires  fall 
back.  Be  thankful  for  what  is  here.  Do  you  not  drag 
your  existence  on  mere  expectations. 

If  and  when  I meet  my  beloved  I shall  do  what  no  lover 
had  done  before.  Like  water  in  a fresh  earthen  pot  I 
shall  soak  myself  into  his  person. 

The  form  of  Apabhramsa  which  appears  as  the  literary 
vehicle  of  popular  poetry  in  the  first  few  centuries  of  the 
second  millennium  of  the  Christian  era,  from  Sindh  and 
Gujarat  in  the  west  right  up  to  Bihar  and  Bengal  in  the  east, 
was  in  fact  proto-New  Indo-Aryan,  and  often  called  Laukika 
(i.e.  popular)  by  contemporary  writers.  The  vogue  of 
Laukika  persisted  long  after  the  emergence  of  the  New 
Indo-Aryan  vernaculars,  but  the  language  could  not  escape 
the  ever-growing  influence  of  the  latter.  This  vernacularized 
Laukika  was  known  as  ‘Avahattha’  as  against  the  contem- 
porary vernaculars  which  were  known  as  Desi  (i.e.  regional) 
speeches.  A good  collection  of  popular  Avahattha  poetry 
produced  in  the  eastern  regions  is  Prakrtapaingala,  a book 
(compiled  probably  in  the  early  fifteenth  century)  on  Prakrit 
and  Apabhramsa  prosody.  The  following  would  illustrate 
the  lyric  excellence  of  some  of  the  verses  collected  in  this 
work. 

He,  my  lover,  is  far  away  beyond  the  horizon.  The 
rains  are  come  and  my  heart  is  now  in  a flutter. 


THE  PRE-VERNACULAR  BACKGROUND 


15 


The  mangoes  are  putting  forth  tender  blossoms.  Yonder 
the  grove  of  creepers  entwining  the  silk-cotton  tree  is 
aflame  with  flowers.  Despite  this  if  you,  O my  beloved, 
go  far  away  there  should  not  have  been  such  a thing  as 
love  nor  a season  like  spring. 

The  pundits  had  always  used  Sanskrit.  But  not  long  after 
the  days  of  Kalidasa  Sanskrit  literary  works  often  became 
glaring  instances  of  grammatical,  lexical  and  metrical 
acrobatics  and  verbiage,  and  after  Bhavabhuti  Sanskrit  drama 
generally  shows  drab  imitation.  Sanskrit  literary  prose  was 
killed  in  the  promise  by  the  brilliant  tour  de  force  of 
Banabhatta.  As  sustained  literary  effort  in  Sanskrit  was  now 
getting  more  and  more  difficult  on  account  of  the  rapidly 
widening  gulf  between  the  classical  language  and  the  spoken 
tongue  the  less  ambitious  and  more  sensible  writers  found 
it  convenient  to  handle  the  isolated  and  compact  form  of  the 
four-lined  verse  ( &loka ).  The  best  achievements  of  neo- 
classical Sanskrit  poetry  are  to  be  found  in  such  isolated 
verses  in  the  two  earliest  and  best  anthologies  that 
were  compiled  in  Bengal,  Kavlndravacanasamuccaya  and 
Saduktikarndmrta. 


The  literary  activity  in  Bengal  is  presumably  as  old  as 
the  day  of  the  first  settlements  of  the  Aryan-speaking  people 
from  the  west.  The  earliest  known  specimen  of  recorded 
speech  in  Bengal  is  a short  and  mutilated  inscription  on  a 
stone  plaque  found  in  north  central  Bengal.  The  language 
is  the  eastern  variety  of  early  Middle  Indo-Aryan.  The  script 
shows  the  Brahnn  characters  of  the  days  of  Asoka.  That  the 
document  originally  belonged  to  north  Bengal  is  proved  by 
the  mention  of  the  Pundra  City  (i.e.  Pundravardhana).  The 
next  record  is  a short  inscription  in  Sanskrit,  dedicating  to 
Vishnu  a cave  on  the  top  of  a hill  (Susunia)  near  Bankura  in 
West  Bengal.  The  donor  was  a local  king  who,  on  the  evi- 


16 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


dence  of  the  script,  is  assigned  to  the  fourth  century  a.d. 
Epigraphical  records  in  the  form  of  copper-plate  grants 
endowing  temples  and  monasteries  or  bestowing  lands  on 
pious  Brahmins  from  the  west  are  available  from  the  fifth 
century.  A distinct  literary  flavour  however  appears  for  the 
first  time  in  the  grants  of  the  Pala  kings.  As  a matter  of  fact, 
the  copper-plate  grants  of  the  Palas  and  of  their  contempo- 
raries and  successors  in  Bengal  and  Assam  contain  a number 
of  verses  showing  flashes  of  real  poetic  fancy.  This  is  not 
unexpected  as  these  kings  commissioned  their  best  court  poets 
for  the  drafting  of  the  literary  and  panegyrical  sections  of  the 
documents. 

Literary  Middle  Indo-Aryan  was  not  much  cultivated  by 
the  eastern  writers  who  were  devoted  to  Sanskrit.  The 
Easterners’  pronunciation  of  the  common  Indo-Aryan  sounds 
markedly  varied  from  the  normal  pronunciation  of  the  mid- 
land and  of  the  west.  This  made  the  Eastern  speech  stand 
apart  from  the  rest  of  the  Middle  Indo-Aryan  speeches.  The 
poet  Rajasekhara  (ninth  century)  testifies  that  the  people  of 
the  regions  to  the  east  of  Banaras  read  Sanskrit  fluently  but 
their  Prakrit  was  not  good.  Still  it  will  be  wrong  to  hold 
that  no  remarkable  literary  contribution  in  Apabhramsa  was 
made  in  Bengal.  The  most  notable  writers  of  Laukika 
(Avahattha)  poetry  in  Bengal  were  the  masters  of  the  mystic 
cults,  the  Siddhacaryas,  who  were  also  the  first  to  write  songs 
in  a New  Indo-Aryan  speech,  i.e.  Bengali.  Somewhat  earlier 
in  date  are  the  Prakrit,  Apabhramsa  and  Laukika  riddle 
verses  quoted  by  Dharmadasa,  a Buddhist  pundit. 

Bengal  (including  Assam,  the  contiguous  parts  of  Orissa 
and  much  of  eastern,  southern  and  northern  Bihar)  became 
a distinct  regional  unit  only  after  the  establishment  of  the 
Pala  dynasty  in  the  eighth  century.  Just  before  the  Turki 
impact,  during  the  reign  of  Laksmanasena  the  last  Hindu 
King  to  rule  over  all  Bengal,  the  country  offered  the  last  and 
most  important  contribution  to  neo-classical  literature.  I 
mean  Jayadeva’s  Gitagovinda.  It  is  this  poem,  or  rather 


THE  PRE-VERNACULAR  BACKGROUND 


17 


twenty-four  songs  in  it,  that  can  claim  to  be  one  of  the 
main  fountainheads  of  not  only  Bengali  but  also  of  other 
New  Indo-Aryan  lyric  poetry  (apart  from  some  scattered 
verses).  Jayadeva  was  a contemporary  of  Laksmanasena, 
probably  a member  of  his  court.  His  native  place  was 
Kendubilva  in  West  Bengal,  where  an  annual  gathering  of 
Vaishnav  devotees  is  held  in  his  honour  to  this  day. 

The  songs  of  Gltagovinda  are  written  in  Sanskrit,  but 
their  rhythm  and  rhyme  belong  to  Apabhramsa  poetry. 
By  injecting  the  tenderness  and  mellifluence  of  the  popular 
musical  lyric  into  the  strong  frame  of  Sanskrit  poetry  Jayadeva 
made  the  last  attempt  at  its  resurrection.  The  poem  of  Jaya- 
deva served  to  establish  the  theme  of  the  love  of  Radha  and 
Krsna  as  practically  the  only  subject  of  Indo-Aryan  vernacular 
lyric  poetry  for  centuries.  Before  Jayadeva  had  handled  the 
theme  it  was  purely  an  erotic  subject  both  in  literary  and 
plastic  art.  In  Kavindravacanasamiiccaya  (the  oldest  antho- 
logy of  Sanskrit  verse  compiled  some  time  before  a.d.  1100  by 
a Buddhist  poet  from  Bengal)  the  poems  on  the  amours  o£ 
Radha  and  Krsna  are  grouped  under  the  section  Asati-vrajya 
(i.e.  love  affairs  of  unchaste  women).  Jayadeva  too  admits  it 
when  he  says  in  one  of  the  opening  verses  of  his  poem: 

If  you  would  soften  your  heart  by  talking  of  Hari, 
if  you  are  curious  to  know  the  art  of  love, 
then  listen  to  the  sweet,  soft  and  charming  songs, 
the  muse  of  Jayadeva. 

The  name  Radha  occurs  first  in  the  writings  of 
some  poets  from  Kashmir.  It  was  originally  a common 
noun  meaning  inamorata.  Its  masculine  counterpart  Radha 
(meaning  lover)  occurs  in  Avestan.  Prakrit  or  Apabhramsa 
lyrics  on  the  Radha-Krsna  love  story  must  have  been  popular 
in  Kashmir,  and  a prototype  of  Jayadeva’s  songs  is  found  in 
a poem  by  the  Kashmirian  poet  Ksemendra  (eleventh 
century).  Bengal  came  in  close  contact  with  Kashmir  in  the 
closing  centuries  of  the  first  millennium  a.d.  when  the  theme. 


9 


18 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


of  the  amorous  love  of  Radha  and  Krsna  was  transplanted 
in  Bengal  where  its  growth  became  phenomenally  rich. 
Jayadeva’s  songs  exerted  the  greatest  influence  in  the 
development  of  Vaishnav  poetry  in  Mithila  and  Bengal. 
Immediate  and  enthusiastic  popularity  of  Jayadeva’s  lyrics 
throughout  India  (attested  by  the  host  of  imitations  and 
commentaries)  made  their  influence  felt  in  the  vernacular 
literatures  of  those  other  provinces  that  had  made  some 
advance  in  the  development  of  their  regional  speech.  The 
most  notable  instance  is  Old  Gujarati-Rajasthani. 

The  mainsprings  of  New  Indo-Aryan  literature  may  be 
enumerated  as  follows,  (a)  Krishna-Vishnu  legends  of  Puranic 
and  popular  origin,  ( b ) Ramayana  and  Mahabharata  stories, 
( c ) Puranic  and  popular  tales  on  Siva  and  Sakti,  (d)  legends 
of  popular  (non-Puranic)  deities,  (e)  romantic  love  stories, 
(/)  didactic  verses,  and  (g)  mystic  (riddle)  poetry  of  the 
devotional  and  esoteric  religious  cults.  The  last  category 
was  originally  what  may  be  called  a literary  byproduct,  but 
it  produced  some  of  the  best  specimens  of  early  and  late 
New  Indo-Aryan  literature.  It  also  furnished  the  first 
finished  products  of  the  vernacular  lyric  poetry. 

The  only  definite  contributions  of  classical  Sanskrit  to 
vernacular  poetry  are  to  be  found  in  the  short  ‘Barah-masa’ 
poems  and  in  the  continuation  of  the  imageries,  allusions 
and  some  stock  expressions  of  the  late  Sanskrit  stray 
( prakirna , udbhata)  verses.  The  ‘Barah-masa’  poems  describe 
the  joys  or  sorrows  of  a lady  in  company  of  or  in  separation 
from  her  lover  during  the  twelve  months  of  the  year,  and 
are  in  reality  a continuation  of  the  tradition  established 
by  Kalidasa’s  Rtu-samhara.  Such  poems  are  usually  incor- 
porated in  longer  narrative  tales,  but  sometimes  they  appear 
also  as  independent  poems. 

New  Indo-Aryan  is  the  direct  descendant  of  Middle 
Indo-Aryan  in  form  and  in  content  but  in  both  it  has  been 
subjected  to  indigenous  as  well  as  extraneous  influence.  The 
structure  of  New  Indo-Aryan  speech  shows  not  a few  essential 


THE  PRE-VERNACULAR  BACKGROUND 


19 


modifications  by  non-Aryan.  In  literature  too  New  Indo- 
Aryan  shows  a substantial  and  emergent  substratum  of  non- 
Aryan  traditions  and  beliefs.  The  most  remarkable  of  the 
literary  inheritance  from  Middle  Indo-Aryan  are  the  main 
themes,  the  legends  of  the  Puranic  gods  and  heroes  like 
Krsna,  Rama,  Siva,  the  Pandavas,  etc.  A good  portion  of 
the  non-Aryan  inheritance  also  came  via  Apabhramsa  and 
Laukika  ; for  instance  the  story  of  the  married  life  of  Siva, 
the  love  episodes  of  the  boy  Krishna,  the  story  of  Manasa  and 
Behula,  the  story  of  Madhavanala  and  Kamakandala  and 
other  romantic  love  stories  of  a like  nature,  riddle  poetry  and 
didactive  and  educative  lore.  The  last  category  contains 
short  verses  embodying  useful  information  or  simple  arithme- 
tical rules.  The  arithmetical  rules  in  verse  in  Bengal  are 
known  as  ‘Arya’  from  the  name  of  the  typical  Prakrit  metre 
in  which  they  were  perhaps  originally  composed.  Some  of 
these  verses  have  still  retained  much  of  the  old  flavour  in 
language.  Verses  dispensing  practical  wisdom,  useful  in- 
formation and  weather  observations  are  known  in  Bengal  as 
‘Daker  Vacan’  (i.e.  the  wiseacre’s  dicta)  and  in  Hindi  as 
‘Bhadali  Puran’  (i.e.  the  traditional  stock  of  the  Bhat). 
Riddle  verses  are  included  in  the  long  narrative  poems  in 
connection  with  the  lovers’  contest.  The  love  stories  have 
never  entirely  lost  sight  of  their  Middle  Indo-Aryan  origin. 
The  story  of  Manasa  and  Behula  is  peculiar  to  Bengal  from 
where  it  migrated  to  the  western  border  province  of  Bihar. 
Its  probable  existence  in  Apabhramsa  may  be  surmised  from 
the  name  Behula  which  is  the  Laukika  form  of  Sanskrit 
vihvala.  Some  erotic  topics  of  the  Krishna  legend  occur  in 
Laukika  poetry. 

The  most  notable  legends  of  the  Sakti  cult  in  Bengal 
that  supply  the  main  themes  of  the  Middle  Bengali  Candl- 
mangal  poems  indicate  their  earlier  existence  in  Apabhramsa 
in  the  form  of  the  names  of  the  heroines  Phullara  (flower- 
like) and  Khullana  (petite).  These  names,  like  Behula. 
bear  the  imprint  of  Apabhramsa  and  Laukika. 


3 


FORMS  OF  EARLY  POETRY 


New  Indo-Aryan  inherited  the  riming  moraic  metre  of 
Laukika,  which  had  two  main  forms.  One  had  lines  of 
16  morae  (or  vowel-length  units),  each  with  a caesura  after 
the  eighth,  and  the  other  had  lines  of  25  morae  each 
with  a caesura  after  the  thirteenth.  The  former,  in  double 
riming  couplets,  was  known  as  ‘Caupai’  or  Catuspadl  (i.e. 
the  quatrain),  and  the  latter  as  ‘Doha’  or  ‘Dodhaka’  (i.e. 
the  couplet).  But  very  often  both  were  called  ‘Doha’ 
indifferently. 

New  Indo-Aryan  poetry  (except  Bengali  and  its  sisters 
Oriya  and  Assamese)  had  not  yet  fully  outgrown  the  moraic 
metrical  system.  The  old  Bengali  mystic  songs  indeed  shew 
the  moraic  metrical  scheme.  But  even  at  that  early  stage 
Bengali  was  fast  liquidating  the  double  consonants  and 
thereby  doing  away  with  the  rigid  length-value  of  long 
vowels  and  diphthongs.  In  Bengali  therefore  the  moraic 
scheme  was  soon  replaced  by  the  syllabic  scheme  (where 
syllables  generally  have  a uniform  length-value)  and  so  the 
characteristic  Bengali  (Assamese,  Oriya  and  partially  Bhoj- 
puri)  ‘Payar’  evolved  out  of  Caupai.  This  process  seems  to 
have  been  completed  by  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century. 

The  western  languages  such  as  Gujarati  and  Rajasthani 
(and  Hindi  also)  retained  the  unriming  verse  of  Middle 
Indo-Aryan.  This  is  called  ‘Soratha  (from  the  place-name 
Saurdstra)  or  sometimes  by  its  old  name  ‘Arya’.  Such  verse 
written  in  Prakrit,  Apabhramsa  and  Laukika  is  known  as 
‘Gaha’  (Sanskrit  Gathd). 

The  early  evolution  of  the  syllabic  metre  from  the  moraic 
in  Bengali  brought  in  such  mobility  and  strength  as  to  put 
Bengali  poetry  in  a very  flourishing  state  as  early  as  the 
fifteenth  century.  The  basic  Payar  metre  of  Bengali  possesses 
in  full  the  musical  potentiality  of  the  discarded  moraic 
scheme  and  the  softness  and  fluidity  of  the  acquired  syllabic 


FORMS  OF  EARLY  POETRY 


21 


scheme  as  well  as  the  pliability  of  the  factual  prose.  Long 
and  continuous  narrative  poems  like  Manasdmahgal,  Candi- 
mahgal,  Dharmamahgal  and  Caitany  amah  gal  would  have 
been  impossible  in  any  western  language  with  its  clipped 
verse  units  of  doha,  caupai,  chappal  and  soratha,  but  they 
became  possible  in  Bengali  only  for  the  smooth  fluency  that 
largely  made  possible  in  modern  Bengali  the  wealth  of 
metrical  variety  and  skill  achieved  by  Michael  Madhusudan 
Dutt  and  Rabindranath  Tagore. 

New  Indo-Aryan  poetry  emerged  in  three  types  of  poems: 
stray  verses,  songs  and  narratives.  Stray  verses  were 
mostly  of  the  popular  type.  The  songs  were  generally  some- 
what finished  products  even  at  that  early  stage.  The  parti- 
cular melodies  in  which  the  songs  were  to  be  sung  were 
always  indicated.  Lines  of  verse  varied  from  eight  to 
fourteen.  The  second  couplet  was  usually  the  refrain 
(. Dhruvapada ) which  was  to  be  repeated  after  each  of  the 
following  couplets.  The  name  of  the  poet  generally  occurs 
in  the  last  couplet,  which  in  Bengali  is  known  as  ‘Bhanita’ 
from  the  poets’  cliche,  ‘N.  N.  says’  (‘bhanai’,  ‘bhane’).  The 
subject-matter  of  the  oldest  specimens  of  New  Indo-Aryan 
songs  are  either  thd  Krishna-Vishnu  legend  or  mystic 
and  ritualistic  matter  of  some  esoteric  cults.  There  were 
undoubtedly  songs  on  other  legendary  topics  also  but  they 
have  not  come  down  to  us. 

The  general  categorical  name  of  a literary  composition 
of  some  length  was  Prabandha.  This  is  the  name  by  which 
Gitagovinda  was  called  by  its  poet.  In  the  west,  however, 
narrative  compositions  were  of  three  types:  the  historical 
poem,  the  romantic  poem,  and  the  religious  poem.  The 
first  two  types  can  be  traced  back  directly  to  Apabhramsa 
or  to  a non-Aryan  nucleus  thickly  coated  with  folk-lore.  It  is 
also  partly  the  continuation  of  the  stories  of  Old  and  Middle 
Indian  epic  and  Purana  legends.  Longer  narrative  and  lyric 


22 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


poems  of  nonreligious  type  in  Apabhramsa  were  generally 
called  ‘Rasau’  (from  Sanskrit  Rasaka  meaning  a dance  song). 
So  the  best  known  New  Indo- Aryan  historical  poem  narrat- 
ing the  struggles  of  the  last  Hindu  king  of  Delhi 
( Prithviraja-rdsau ) takes  its  name. 

Bengal  paid  more  attention  to  the  epic  and  religious 
poetry  than  to  the  historical  ballad.  There  is  reason  to 
believe  that  some  of  the  meritorious  deeds  of  the  Pala  and 
Sena  kings  were  sung  in  poetry,  but  these  have  been  lost. 
Except  a few  couplets  preserved  in  a sixteenth  century  work 
written  in  mixed  Sanskrit  and  Bengali,  Bengal  has  entirely 
lost  its  early  historical  compositions.  Except  a solitary  poem 
written  in  Brajabuli  and  bearing  the  signature  of  Krittivas 
no  Bengali  work  was  named  ‘Raso’  or  ‘Rasa’. 

The  tradition  of  historical  poetry,  however,  was  quite 
living  in  Mithila  up  to  the  fifteenth  century.  One  of  the 
earliest  and  best  compositions  of  Vidyapati  is  Kirttilata,  a 
vernacularized  Avahattha  poem  in  prose  and  verse  where  he 
records  the  exploits  of  his  patron  Klrttisimha. 

In  Bengali  we  do  not  get  any  narrative  poems  other 
than  those  celebrating  the  activities  of  deities  and  deified 
heroes  until  we  come  to  the  seventeenth  century.  The 
frame-work  of  these  ‘religious’  poems  of  Bengal  has  some 
affinity  with  the  romantic  narrative  poems  of  Western  Indo- 
Aryan.  The  common  features  of  the  Bengali  and  the 
western  Indo-Aryan  poems  are  these:  (i)  salutation  to 
Ganesa  the  god  of  success,  to  Sarasvati  the  goddess  of  learn- 
ing, and  to  other  deities  at  the  beginning,  followed  by  some 
account  of  the  poet  himself  ; (ii)  the  hero  and  the  heroine 
presented  as  incarnations  of  Vishnu  or  of  a semi-divine  couple 
temporarily  under  a curse  ; (in)  description  of  towns,  kings’' 
courts,  etc.  and  enumeration  of  trees  and  plants  in  forests 
and  gardens ; (iv)  riddle  contest  between  the  hero  and  the 
heroine  (or  by  any  other  major  character)  ; and  (v)  descrip- 
tion of  the  lovers’  pleasures  and  pains  in  each  of  the  twelve 
months  of  the  year  (‘Barah  masa’).  Before  they  took  the 


FORMS  OF  EARLY  POETRY 


23 


written  form  these  tales  were  recited  by  the  professional 
story-tellers  (called  ‘Kathaka’  or  ‘Vacaka’)  attached  to  the 
courts  of  rulers  or  to  temples.  The  poems  in  their  written 
form  were  chanted  and  sung,  but  even  then  they  had  not 
entirely  lost  traces  of  their  original  connection  with  the  craft 
of  the  story-teller.  Jyotirisvara’s  V arnanaratnakara  (the  sea 
of  description),  one  of  the  oldest  works  in  Maithil  written  in 
pure  and  rimed  prose,  is  the  earliest  available  specimen 
of  such  a story-teller’s  handbook.  Such  works  supplied  to  the 
early  narrative  poets  their  technical  outfit. 

The  non-Bengali  narratives  were  at  first  written  in  doha 
and  caupai  and  other  moraic  metres,  but  later  on  some 
poems  were  composed  exclusively  in  doha  or  in  caupai 
metres.  For  this  reason  such  poems  came  to  be  known 
as  Duha  or  Caupai  ; e.g.  Dhold  Mdrii  ra  Duka , Madhavanala- 
Kamakandala  Caupai,  etc.  The  Bengali  narrative  poems 
were  written  in  syllabic  payar  and  tripadi  verse.  The  payar 
(short  couplet)  portion,  which  formed  the  bulk  and  which 
was  essentially  narrative,  pushing  on  the  story  was  chanted 
by  the  principal  singer  and  was  known  also  as  ‘sikali’  (i.e. 
the  chain  of  narration  connecting  the  songs.)  In  this  very 
sense  the  word  ‘pavaru’  occurs  in  Kanhadad-de  Prabandha. 
It  is  likely  that  ‘payara’  and  ‘pavaru’  are  cognates,  originally 
signifying  the  same  thing  (possibly  from  padavrttaka  ‘stepping 
movement’).  The  tripadi  (long  couplet  with  two  caesura) 
portion,  sometimes  also  some  payar  lines,  formed  the  songs 
or  lyric  lines  which  were  sung  by  the  leading  singer  (‘Mula 
Gayana’)  supported  by  his  assistant  or  assistants  (‘Dohara’  or 
‘Pali’)  and  it  was  known  as  ‘Nacadi’  (from  nrtyavrttika 
‘dance  style’),  The  leading  singer  wore  a bell-anklet  and 
carried  a chowrie  in  his  right  hand  and  a pair  of  small  cup- 
cymbals  in  the  left.  The  Bengali  devotional  narrative  poems 
combine  the  singer’s  craft  with  that  of  the  story-teller 
and  of  the  actor,  and  for  the  introductory  episode  of 
cosmogony  and  related  matter  (which  appear  only  in  the 
poems  devoted  to  the  non-epic  deities  like  Manasa,  Candi 


24 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


and  Dharma)  they  are  further  indebted  to  the  reciter  of  the 
Puranas  (‘Pathaka’  or  ‘Kathaka’y 

These  early  Bengali  devotional  narrative  poems  are 
classed  as  ‘Pancalf  or  ‘Pancalika’  which  originally  meant 
‘doll’  or  ‘puppet’.  The  name  indicates  that  at  the  beginning 
the  devotional  songs  were  sung  and  poems  chanted  supporting 
a puppet  show  of  the  story.  Even  now  a puppet  show  in 
Bengal  is  accompanied  by  chanting  of  verses  narrating  the 
story  and  punctuated  by  beating  of  drums  and  cymbals. 
An  abridged  version  of  this  is  the  showing  of  the  painted 
scroll  (‘Pata’)  depicting  the  stories  of  the  devotional  narra- 
tives. The  man  showing  the  scroll  chants  the  story  in  crude 
(often  extempore)  verse  as  he  unrolls  it.  This  popular  show 
which  obtained  in  West  Bengal  only  is  fast  disappearing. 
Banabhatta  has  mentioned  such  a show  of  Yamapata  in  his 
Harsacarita. 


Like  the  Pingal  of  Rajasthani  an  East  Indian  dialect, 
Maithil,  developed  as  early  as  the  beginning  of  the  fourteenth 
century  a finished  poetic  diction  based  on  Avahattha  tradition 
with  a good  mixture  of  the  native  dialect.  The  earliest 
specimens  of  Maithil  poetry  are  the  lyrics  of  Umapati 
Upadhyaya,  a minister  of  Harasimha  the  last  Hindu  king  of 
Mithila  (ante  1324),  and  these  songs  show  this  diction.  The 
songs  number  twenty-one  and  are  imbedded  in  a short 
dramatic  frame  in  Sanskrit  entitled  Pdrijata-harana  (carrying 
off  of  the  Celestial  Flower).  In  contemporary  New  Indo- 
Aryan  literature  these  songs  of  Umapati  stand  unique  as 
finished  products. 

Vidyapati,  one  of  the  best  known  poets  of  early  New 
Indo- Aryan  literature,  followed  in  the  footsteps  of  Umapati 
in  the  next  century.  The  influence  of  Umapati  and 
Vidyapati  (probably  there  were  other  poets  too)  crossed  the 
borders  of  Tirhut.  Their  style  and  diction  was  carried  over 
to  Nepal  which  had  become  one  of  the  main  resorts  of 


FORMS  OF  EARLY  POETRY 


25 


■scholars  and  poets  from  Bengal  and  North  Bihar  after  the 
conquest  of  the  latter  by  the  Turks  and  the  Pathans,  and 
through  Bengal  to  Assam.  Bengali  Vaishnav  lyric  poets  of 
the  sixteenth-eighteenth  centuries  avidly  cultivated  the 
diction  of  the  Maithil  poets,  which  retained  the  measured 
rhythm  of  the  moraic  metre  and  pithy  picturesqueness  of  the 
Old  and  Middle  Indo-Aryan  ornamental  and  amorous  verse 
and  turned  it  into  a poetic  language.  As  expected  this 
Kunstsprache  in  Bengal  was  thoroughly  saturated  by  Bengali 
forms  and  idioms,  and  came  to  be  known  from  the  late 
eighteenth  century  as  Brajabuli,  as  if  it  was  the  language  of 
the  Vraja,  the  homeland  of  the  Radha-Krsna  legend.  In 
Orissa  the  imported  diction  was  not  fruitful  as  the  tradition 
■of  lyric  poetry  was  not  strong  there.  In  Assam  Brajabuli 
thrived  as  much  as  in  Bengal. 


In  spite  of  or  rather  because  of  Dandin  and  Banabhatta, 
■classical  Sanskrit  did  not  entourage  literary  prose.  In  Middle 
Indo-Aryan  practical  and  popular  prose  is  found  in  the 
collections  of  folk-tales,  the  authors  or  compilers  of  which 
fortunately  did  not  bid  for  high  literary  achievement.  There 
was  little  possibility  of  the  evolution  of  literary  prose  in  early 
New  Indo-Aryan,  for  the  career  of  this  literature  started 
with  songs  and  chanted  verse  and  this  continued  till  the  very 
last  of  the  pre-modern  epoch.  Nevertheless  a few  stray  and 
half-hearted  attempts  at  practical  prose  have  been  preserved 
in  some  of  the  early  New  Indo-Aryan  languages.  These  are 
certainly  not  genuine  records  of  the  literary  prose  ; they  are 
handbooks  of  cliches  for  the  use  of  the  novice.  But  in  some 
of  these  handbooks  and  in  some  poems  too  we  sometimes 
come  across  a diction  intermediate  between  verse  and  prose, 
the  riming  prose  (called  ‘Vacanika’  in  Rajasthani  and  once 
also  in  Bengali).  The  earliest  occurrence  of  the  riming  prose 
is  to  be  found  in  Jyotirisvara’s  handbook  for  the  use  of 
story-tellers  written  in  stuccato  Maithil  prose.  This  work. 


26 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


already  mentioned,  presents  to  us  the  earliest  and  longest 
specimens  of  early  New  Indo-Aryan  prose. 

It  was  expected  that  Bengali  which  is  one  of  the  most 
advanced  literary  speeches  of  the  New  Indo-Aryan  would 
develop  a prose  literature  early  in  her  history.  But  this  did 
not  happen,  owing  to  the  verse-mindedness  of  the  people 
and  the  extreme  pliability  and  expressiveness  of  its  charac- 
teristic metre.  No  need  was  felt  for  a prose  style  when  the 
payar  was  quite  adequate  even  for  an  abstruse  and  difficult 
work  like  Caitanyacaritamrta  of  Krsnadas. 

The  literary  prose  style  in  Bengali  had  to  wait  for  the 
introduction  of  new  thought  and  outlook  from  Europe  in 
the  latter  half  of  the  eighteenth  century. 


I 


4 


OLD  BENGALI  POETRY 
AND  MYSTICISM 

The  only  connected  and  copious  specimens  of  the  earliest 
literary  productions  in  a New  Indo-Aryan  speech  are 
the  Caryaglti  or  the  Mystic  Practice  Songs  written  in  old 
Bengali  when  the  language  was  just  evolving  out  of  Laukika 
(or  Avahattha),  the  proto-vernacular  stage  of  Apaibhramsa. 
The  language  of  the  songs  naturally  shows  some  features  that 
are  distinctly  Laukika,  and  others  that  are  common  to  the 
eastern  and  western  New  Indo-Aryan  speeches  at  their  earliest 
stage,  but  there  is  no  doubt  regarding  the  essential  Bengali 
stamp  on  its  grammar,  idiom  and  syntax.  Besides,  the 
contents  of  the  songs  indicate  that  the  poets  were  thoroughly 
acquainted  with  Bengali  life  and  environs.  No  definite  date 
can  be  assigned  to  the  songs.  The  lower  limit,  however,  is 
1200  and  the  upper  limit  cannot  be  much  later  than  1050. 
The  poets  include  two  generations  certainly  and  four  genera- 
tions probably.  In  antiquity  the  carya  songs  are  matched 
only  by  the  fragments  of  two  songs,  one  eulogizing  the  ten 
avatars  or  incarnations  of  Vishnu  and  the  other  on  the 
Krishna  legend,  written  partly  in  Old  Marathi  and  partly  in 
Old  Rajasthani-Gujarati.  The  two  songs,  which  remind  us  of 
the  songs  in  Jayadeva’s  Gitagovinda,  are  incorporated  in  a 
Sanskrit  encyclopaedia  compiled  in  1130  at  the  instance  of 
King  Somesvara  Bhulokanralla  of  the  second  Calukya  dynasty 
of  Maharashtra. 

The  text  of  the  mystic  songs  with  an  elaborate  com- 
mentary in  Sanskrit  was  discovered  by  Haraprasad  Shastri  in 
a manuscript  preserved  in  Nepal  Darbar  Library.  Both  the 
songs  and  the  commentary  were  translated  into  Tibetan  in 
the  fourteenth  century.  The  Tibetan  translation  has  pre- 
served the  contents  of  two  complete  songs  and  part  of  another, 
which  are  missing  in  the  original  MS.  The  Nepal  MS  pre- 
sents us  with  forty-eight  out  of  the  fifty  songs  commented  on. 


28 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


The  original  anthology  must  have  contained  more  than  fifty, 
as  the  commentary  quotes  lines  from  a few  other  carya  songs  ; 
the  most  important  of  such  quotations  is  a quadruplet 
ascribed  to  Mlnanatha. 

The  carya  songs  follow  the  pattern  of  Jayadeva.  The 
name  of  the  melody  is  always  indicated  at  the  top  and 
that  of  the  poet  usually  occurs  in  the  last  couplet.  The 
second  couplet  was  repeated  as  the  refrain.  The  songs  usually 
consist  of  ten  verse  lines  and  only  three  have  fourteen  verse 
lines.  The  metrical  scheme  is  moraic.  There  are  only  two 
metrical  varieties.  The  bulk  is  composed  in  the  verse  line 
scheme  of  15(16)  morae  with  a caesura  after  the  eighth 
syllable.  This  scheme,  practically  the  same  as  the  caupal  of 
Hindi-Rajasthani-Gujarati,  easily  developed  into  payar,  when 
the  moraic  unit  was  changed  to  the  syllabic,  the  final  caesura 
absorbing  one  mora  or  syllable.  The  other  scheme,  which 
later  developed  into  tripadi  (the  other  characteristic  metre  of 
Bengali),  has  verse  lines  of  25(26)  morae  with  a caesura  after 
the  eighth  and  the  sixteenth  syllable. 

The  carya  songs  are  believed  to  have  been  composed  by 
some  Buddhist  Tantrists  exclusively.  But  that  cannot  be 
supported  by  the  texts.  The  songs  incorporate  the  mystic 
practices  not  only  of  some  Buddhist  Tantrists  but  of  some 
non-Buddhist  yogis  also.  In  Bengal  Tantrism  was  professed 
by  the  Mahayana  Buddhists  mainly  but  not  exclusively. 
There  are  Saivite  Tantrists  certainly  and  possibly  Vaishnav 
Tantrists  as  well.  8aivite  Tantrism  is  echoed  in  the  two 
anonymous  songs  describing  the  fatal  amours  of  a Savara 
couple  and  probably  also  in  the  songs  of  Kanha  which  reveal 
his  love  for  a Dom  mistress.  Tantrism  and  yoga  are  both 
mystic  cults  based  on  esoteric  practices,  but  there  is  a 
difference.  In  Tantrism  austerity  is  not  essential  and 
companionship  of  women  as  mates  is  not  forbidden. 
Yoga,  on  the  other  hand,  enjoins  extreme  austerities  and 
strict  celibacy.  The  songs  of  some  of  the  poets  such  as  Lui, 
•Saraha,  Bhusuku,  Darika,  Mahinda,  Ajadeva  and  Kamali 


OLD  BENGALI  POETRY  AND  MYSTICISM 


29 


definitely  echo  thoughts  and  processes  of  yoga  rather  than 
those  of  Tantrism.  The  definite  Buddhistic  imprint  appears 
only  in  a few  names  and  terms,  such  as  ‘Dasabala’,  ‘evamkara’, 
the  five  Tathagatas,  ‘nirvana’,  the  city  of  the  Jina,  occurring 
in  some  of  the  songs  of  Kanha,  ‘Mara’  in  the  sing  of  Mahinda, 
‘Heruka’  and  ‘Buddha’  in  an  anonymous  song,  ‘bodhi’  in 
the  song  ascribed  to  Catila  and  in  the  song  of  Kahkana, 
and  ‘tathata’  in  the  song  of  Jaya-NanclI.  The  tern  ‘sunya’ 
occurring  in  many  songs  was  not  an  exclusively  Buddhistic 
term,  at  least  in  that  period.  But  many  of  the  authors  of 
the  songs  doubtless  belonged  to  ‘Sahajayana’,  another  name 
of  the  Tantric  school  of  Buddhist  mysticism  pervalent  in 
Eastern  India  at  thdt  time. 

Three  of  the  carya  songs  are  annonymous:  those  ascribed 
by  the  commentator  to  Vina’  and  ‘ 5a vara’  ; and  at  least  four 
were  written  by  disciples  of  the  masters  named  as  the 
authors:  two  referring  to  ‘Kukkuri’  and  one  each  to 
‘Dhendhana’  and  ‘Catila’.  From  the  use  of  the  honorific 
form  of  the  verb  in  the  colophon  (‘Bhanita’)  of  the  songs 
it  can  be  assumed  that  three  additional  poems  may  be 
assigned  to  disciples  of  the  poets  named  therein,  viz.  the  song 
of  Birua  and  of  Mahinda  and  one  of  the  songs  of  Saraha.  If 
we  exclude  the  names  ‘Vina’,  ‘Savara’,  Dhendhana,  Catila, 
Birua  and  Mahinda,  we  are  left  with  fourteen  names  of 
Old  Bengali  mystic  song-writers:  Lui,  Bhusuku,  Kanha, 
Kamali,  Dombi,  Santi,  Saraha,  Ajadeva,  Darika,  Bhade, 
Tadaka,  Kahkana,  Jaya-Nandi  and  Dhama.  Among  these 
two  at  least  appear  to  be  nicknames:  Tadaka  ( tatanka ) 
‘armlet’,  and  Kahkana  ‘wristlet’.  The  poetic  sobriquet 
‘Kahkana’  was  peculiar  to  Bengal.  Two  Sanskrit  verses  by 
a poet  Kahkana  occur  in  Saduktikarnamrta  (1206).  One  of 
the  best  known  poets  of  Middle  Bengali  literature  was 
known  as  Kavi-kankan. 

Only  a single  song  is  to  be  credited  to  each  of  the  poets 
except  four.  Lui  has  two  songs  to  his  credit,  Saraha  four 
(or  three),  Bhusuku  eight  and  Kanha  twelve.  Another  song 


30 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


by  Darika  was  obtained  by  Haraprasad  Shastri  from  a 
Buddhist  monk  in  Nepal.  More  than  one  Siddhacarya  was 
called  Kanha.  It  is  more  than  likely  that  the  twelve  carya 
songs  bearing  the  signature  of  Kanha  came  from  the  pen  of 
two  different  persons.  A marked  difference  in  the  tone  of 
the  subject-matter  warrants  the  suggestion  that  the  three  songs 
referring  to  the  amours  of  the  Dom  girl  were  not  written  by 
the  person  who  wrote  most  of  the  remaining  songs.  Tibetan 
tradition  acknowledges  several  persons  named  Kanha  or 
Krsna.  One  of  them  was  known  as  Birua  (or  Virupa). 

Among  the  poets  we  can  detect  at  least  two  generations 
of  song-writers.  Lui  was  the  guru  of  Darika.  In  one  of  his 
songs  Kanha  refers  to  Jalandhari  as  if  the  latter  was  his  guru. 
In  later  tradition  in  Bengal  the  other  name  or  sobriquet  of 
Jalandhari  was  Hadi-pa.  If  this  Jalandhari  be  the  author 
of  the  commentary  on  Suddhivajrapradipa  of  Saraha,  we  find 
at  least  three  generations  of  poets  represented  in  the  Old 
Bengali  mystic  songs.  The  real  name  of  Kankana  was 
probably  Koka-Datta,  and  according  to  Tibetan  tradition  he 
was  a follower  or  descendant  of  Kamali.  The  poet  Dombl 
seems  to  have  been  the  same  person  as  Nada  or  Nada-Dombi, 
one  of  whose  songs  occurred  in  the  original  collection  of  the 
mystic  songs  but  was  missed  by  the  commentator.  There 
was  also  a younger  Saraha,  a disciple  or  descendant  of  Kanha, 
who  commented  on  the  latter’s  Dohdkosa.  The  older  Saraha, 
our  poet,  ha's  been  mentioned  in  Tibetan  tradition  as  the 
great  Savara,  a master  yogi  and  a great  brahman.  There 
were  other  writers  of  mystic  songs  whose  works  exist  only  in 
Tibetan  translation.  Among  them  mention  may  be  made 
of  Tila  or  Klla  (a  disciple  or  descendant  of  Lui),  Dlpari- 
karasrl-Jnana,  Bairaglnatha  and  his  disciple  or  descendant 
Sthagana. 

The  Nepal  MS  of  the  caryas  has  preserved  only  a portion 
•of  what  seems  to  have  been  a vast  literary  output.  Some 
of  the  poets  who  have  been  represented  in  the  Nepal  MS  by 
single  poems  wrote  quite  a respectable  number  of  songs 


OLD  BENGALI  POETRY  AND  MYSTICISM 


31 


and/or  couplets,  as  can  be  gathered  from  the  following 
titles:  the  master  yogi  ( Yogisvara ) Santi’s  Sahajagiti,  Ajadeva’s 
Kaneri-gltika , Birua’s  Pada-caturasiti,  Bhade’s  Sahajunanda- 
dohahosagitika,  etc.  Munidatta  the  author  of  the  commentary 
of  the  caryas  known  to  us  was  not  the  only  commentator  of 
the  mystic  songs.  Other  commentaries  are  preserved  only 
in  Tibetan  translations. 

The  writers  of  the  mystic  songs  were  generally  known 
as  ‘Siddhdcdrya’  inasmuch  as  they  were  spiritual  masters 
(deary as)  and  were  believed  to  have  attained  the  final  spiritual 
goal  (siddhi).  Some  were  reputed  as  great  yogis  (rnaha- 
yogl,  yogisvara),  others  were  known  as  ‘ Avadhuta’  (literally, 
‘purified’,  i.e.  washed  clean  of  ignorance  and  delusion). 

Strictly  speaking,  the  carya  songs  were  not  literary 
compositions  in  the  accepted  sense.  They  were  written  for 
a limited  audience  who  were  interested  not  so  much  in  the 
form  and  diction  of  the  songs  as  in  their  content.  The  songs 
always  carry  a double  meaning,  the  outward  meaning 
guarding  the  inner  sense,  and  this  double  entendre  was 
known  as  ‘Sandha  Vacana’,  i.e.  code  language.  The  outward 
meaning  of  the  songs  has  indeed  a literary  flavour,  for  the 
songs  really  followed  a traditional  pattern,  but  the  outward 
sense  was  intended  only  to  disguise  the  inner  meaning  which 
recorded  the  mystic  practice,  experience  and  emotion  of  the 
masters  in  their  process  of  self-realization. 

According  to  these  mystics,  the  human  body  and  mind 
form  a microcosm  and  the  outside  universe,  the  macrocosm, 
is  only  its  replica.  When  a person  succeeds  in  controlling 
his  own  body-functions,  when  he  has  a perfect  command 
over  his  vital  and  mental  operations  and  when  he  has 
attained  the  blissful  state  of  complete  neutrality  or  equili- 
brium (technically  called  ‘sahaja’)  by  liquidating  volition,  he 
becomes  truly  immortal,  in  the  sense  that  life  and  death 
become  indistinguishable  stages  to  him.  So  says  Kanha  in 
one  of  his  songs,  probably  addressed  to  a devoted  disciple 
sorrowing  at  the  impending  demise  of  the  guru: 


32 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


In  the  state  of  neutrality  the  soul  is  merged  into  the- 
void.  So  be  not  sorrowful  at  the  dissolution  of  the 
elements  that  make  up  an  individual  entity.  How  do  you 
say  Kanha  would  not  exist,  when  he,  ever  manifest,  is 
disporting  in  the  three  worlds?  Only  a fool  experiences 
grief  at  the  annihilation  of  a mere  appearance.  Can 
breakers  ever  drain  out  the  sea?  So  long  as  they  remain 
in  ignorance  men  cannot  acquire  the  true  perspective,, 
just  as  the  fat  existing  in  milk  cannot  be  detected.  In 
this  existence  no  one  really  comes  in  or  goes  out.  With: 
this  attitude  Kanha  the  yogi  enjoys  himself. 

The  authors  of  the  songs  followed  a literary  tradition.. 
They  were  acquainted  with  Old  and  Middle  Indo-Aryan 
which  some  of  them  wrote  very  well.  Being  mystics  the  make- 
up of  their  mind  was  predisposed  to  poetic  fancy.  So  it  is  not 
unexpected  that  their  ‘practice’  ( carya ) songs,  in  the  outward 
meaning  of  course,  would  not  be  devoid  of  some  sort  of  poetry. 
I do  not  mean  expression  or  idea  only.  To  the  common 
reader  the  real  appeal  of  the  songs  lies  in  this  that  they 
give  us  a kaleidoscopic  view  of  the  commonplace,  even  the 
vulgar,  life  of  the  people  of  Bengal  in  the  centuries  preceding 
the  Muhammedan  contact,  a glimpse  which  we  find  nowhere 
else  in  contemporary  literature,  nor  indeed  in  the  literature 
of  the  subsequent  centuries.  The  carya  poets  were  anxious 
to  hide  the  real  meaning  of  their  songs  from  the  inquisitive- 
ness of  the  merely  curious  and  from  the  scepticism  of  the 
merely  learned.  So  they  camouflaged  their  secret  thoughts 
and  experiences  by  using  technical  words  of  their  own  and 
by  employing  imageries  and  allegories  taken  from  lowly  life 
and  unenviable  occupations,  such  as  keeping  a grog  shop,, 
building  a wooden  bridge,  catching  game,  piracy  and 
plunder,  way-laying,  illicit  love-making,  plying  a ferry  boat, 
wood  cutting,  cotton  wool  carding  and  so  on.  Other 
interesting  imageries  are  the  sorrows  of  a luckless  young  wife,, 
chess-playing,  marriage  ceremony,  musical  performance,  a 


OLD  BENGALI  POETRY  AND  MYSTICISM 


33 


house  on  fire,  etc.  In  a few  songs  the  very  old  tradition  of 
the  riddle  verse  has  been  followed  vigorously.  A few  songs 
are  purely  didactic  or  even  philosophical.  The  following 
song  by  Kanha  serves  to  illustrate  a vulgar  side  of  con- 
temporary life,  a Tantrist  mendicant’s  liaison  with  a Dom 
girl. 

The  three  worlds  have  been  plied  through  by  me 
effortlessly  ; I am  now  at  rest  in  the  nest  of  Great  Happi- 
ness. How  strange,  O Dom  girl,  is  your  coquetry! 
Men  of  class  are  kept  aside  while  a mendicant  occupies 
the  centre  seat.  My  girl,  you  have  made  a pretty  mess: 
without  rhyme  or  reason  the  sap  is  spilled.  There  are 
some  call  you  ugly,  but  experienced  men  cannot  but 
nestle  in  your  arms.  Kanha  says:  You  are  a Candala 
woman  really,  and  there  is  no  unchaste  woman  smarter 
than  you,  a Dom  girl. 

The  following  song  is  a chain  of  riddles.  It  is  ascribed 
to  Dhendhana  by  an  anonymous  poet,  probably  a follower 
of  the  master. 

My  hutment  stands  in  a populated  area,  but  there  are 
no  neighbours.  Not  a grain  of  rice  is  left  in  the  boiling- 
pot,  but  lovers  are  always  (knocking  at  the  door).  The 
stream  of  life  flows  on  swiftly:  but  can  milk  once  milked 
out  ever  go  back  to  the  teat  (of  the  cow)?  A bullock  has 
calved  while  the  cow  remains  barren,  and  he  gives  milk 
in  pailfuls  thrice  daily.  He  that  understands  this,  obtains 
the  blessed  realization:  the  thief  is  indeed  the  sleuth, 
(and)  day  after  day  a jackal  fights  with  a lion.  The  true 
import  of  this  song  of  Dhendhana  the  master  is  realized 
by  the  rare  few. 

One  of  the  two  songs  of  Lui,  probably  the  oldest  of 
the  carya  poets,  thus  describes  in  terms  of  ordinary  expe- 
rience the  impossibility  of  expressing  the  ultimate  spiritual 
reality: 

3 


34 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


It  is  neither  being  nor  non-being  ; by  such  experience 
who  can  be  convinced?  Lui  says,  my  child,  the  reality  is 
elusive  ; it  pervades  the  Three  Essences  but  its  identity 
is  inscrutable.  Its  colour,  form  and  appearance  are  in- 
discernible: how  then  can  it  be  found  described  in  the 
various  scriptures?  What  can  I say  and  to  whom  can  I 
make  an  authoritative  statement,  when,  like  the  re- 
flection of  the  moon  on  a sheet  of  water  it  is  neither  real 
nor  unreal?  Lui  says:  what  should  I be  contemplating 
on?  No  clue  of  what  I am  engrossed  with  is  discernible. 

Some  poets  and  their  forerunners  wrote  songs  in  the  older 
literary  diction  of  Avahattha  (i.e.  proto-vernacular).  These 
songs  were  used  only  in  the  secret  rituals  of  Tantric  worship, 
and  were  called  ‘Vajragiti’  (the  song  of  the  bolt).  The  sacred 
and  secret  nature  of  the  Vajragiti  precluded  a signature  of 
the  poet.  But  the  melodies  are  indicated.  The  few  songs  that 
have  come  down  to  us  are  all  invocations  to  Heruka,  the 
deity  of  the  bolt,  by  his  beloved  the  Yogini,  put  in  the  form 
of  passionate  appeal  by  a girl  in  love  trying  to  awaken  her 
sleeping  mate.  As  warm  love  lyrics  some  of  these  mystic 
ritual  songs  ring  true,  as  the  following  translation  would 
indicate : 

Arise,  O compassionate  master,  look  at  my  helpless- 
ness. In  the  union  of  Great  Ecstasy  there  is  the  honey 
of  love.  Seek  it,  thou  of  the  nature  of  the  void.  Without 
thee  I live  not.  Do  thou  arise,  O Hevajra.  Dispel  the 
stupor  of  the  void.  Let  the  desire  of  the  Savara  girl  be 
fulfilled.  O master  of  love’s  sport,  why  dost  thou,  after 
inviting  guests,  remain  inactive?  I am  a Candala  woman 
and  not  a clever  one : without  thee  I do  not  find  my  way. 
Break  through  the  magic  spell.  I know  thy  heart.  I am 
a Dom  girl,  downhearted.  Do  not  discard  compassion. 

The  third  category  of  the  literary  composition  of  the 
Tantric  (and  yogi)  mystics  was  written  in  the  same  archaic 


OLD  BENGALI  POETRY  AND  MYSTICISM 


35 


dialect  as  the  Vajra  songs.  These  are  didactic  and  directive 
couplets  and  quatrains  for  neophytes.  They  were  called 
‘doha’  and  their  collection  Dohakosa.  It  should  be  mentioned 
here  that  although  the  verses  were  called  doha,  most  of  them 
are  in  caupal  metre  and  the  remaining  few  in  doha  metre. 
The  doha  collections  ( Dohakosa ) of  only  three  masters  have 
reached  us — Tilo,  Saraha  and  Kanha.  Other  writers  of  this 
class  whose  works  are  known  only  in  Tibetan  translation  are 
Lui,  Karikana  and  Ratna  (Nrsimha).  The  doha  collections 
were  commented  on,  in  Sanskrit  of  course,  by  Advayavajra 
(Saraha’s  dohas),  Amitabha  (Kanha’s  dohas),  and  Moksakara- 
Gupta  (Tilo’s  dohas).  Saraha  was  undoubtedly  the  best  and 
probably  the  oldest  of  the  three  poets  whose  doha  verses  are 
known  to  us.  Divakara-Canda’s  collection  of  Saraha’s  dohas  is 
known  in  a MS  copied  in  Nepal  in  1101.  This,  by  the  way, 
furnishes  the  terminus  ad  quem  of  the  date  of  Saraha.  The 
poet  must  have  been  living  a long  time  before,  possibly  a 
century  or  more,  for  Divakara-Canda  mentions  that  much  of 
the  master’s  doha  composition  had  been  lost. 

The  doha  verses  sometimes  echo  ideas  and  expressions 
of  the  carya  songs,  and  are  not  devoid  of  charm.  A touch 
of  unconscious  humour  enlivens  the  following  couplets: 

‘Let  there  be  success’, — this  formula  was  my  first 
lesson,1  but  by  feeding  only  on  gruel  I forgot  the 
alphabet.  Now  I have  learnt  only  a single  letter:  but  I 
know  not  its  name,  O my  dear. 

What  could  be  safely  hidden  by  the  ‘code’  language  of 
the  carya  songs  was  not  fit  for  expression  in  the  dohas.  So 
says  Saraha: 

The  attributes,  the  elements,  the  body,  the  senses  and 
their  objects,  water  and  fire — discussion  on  all  these  I 
speak  out  in  new  doha  verses,  and  nothing  is  kept 


1 An  Indian  child  still  begins  his  first  lessons  with  the  repetition  of  some 
variation  of  the  formula:  siddhir  astu  (‘let  there  be  success’). 


36 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


hidden.  Learned  men,  please  excuse  me.  I am  not 
playing  false.  But  how  can  I utter  the  very  secret  things 
that  I have  culled  from  the  lips  of  my  guru?  The  sport 
of  love  that  is  manifest  between  the  lotus  and  the  bolt: 
who  is  there  in  the  three  worlds  that  is  not  enthralled? 
who  is  there  that  does  not  feel  gratified? 

The  doha  verses  contained  much  that  was  common 
matter  or  common  expression  among  the  different  religious 
cults  and  mystic  groups  even  in  later  days.  The  ‘presenta- 
tion’ dohas  ( Pahuda-doha ) of  Rama-Siha,  a Saivite  yogi  and 
the  ‘neophyte’s  lesson’  dohas  ( Savayadhamma-doha ) of  an 
unknown  Jain  yogi  are  surely  reminiscent  of  the  Dohakosas 
of  Saraha,  Kanha  and  Tilo,  although  the  former  are  purely 
didactic  and  therefore  lack  the  intimate,  literary  flavour  of 
the  Tantrist  masters. 

Some  of  the  Tantrist  mystic  poets  had  good  command 
over  Sanskrit  prose  and  verse.  Their  learned  works  were  in- 
variably written  in  Sanskrit.  Their  sermons  were  couched 
in  Avahattha  verse.  But  their  secret  thoughts  were  expressed 
only  in  the  vernacular. 

Indian  religious  thought  as  a whole,  and  not  mysticism 
alone,  made  a remarkable  advance  through  Buddhist 
Tantrism.  The  spirit  of  pure  devotion,  the  attitude  of 
absolute  surrender,  and  the  highest  reverence  for  the  guru, 
which  are  the  most  characteristic  features  of  the  Vaishnav 
movement  in  Bengal  in  the  sixteenth  century,  were  already 
in  evidence  in  the  writings  of  some  of  the  Buddhists  mystics. 
'The  form  as  well  as  the  subject-matter  of  the  carya  songs  did 
not  die  out  with  the  disappearance  of  Buddhist  Tantrism. 
-They  reappear  with  the  necessary  changes  in  the  sixteenth 
century  and  later  in  the  ‘Ragatmika’  (belonging  to  Mystic 
Love)  songs  of  Vaishnav  Tantrists  generally  known  as  Bauls 
(mad  men).  But  the  mystic  poetry  was  always  outside  the 
pale  of  ‘high’  literature. 


THE  DARK  CENTURIES  AND  THE  EMERGENCE 

OF  THE  CULT  THEMES 


The  Turki  invasion  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  thirteenth 
century  acted  as  a stunning  blow  to  Bengal  which 
under  the  rule  of  the  Pala,  Candra,  Varman,  Sena  and  other 
kings  had  achieved  a singular  cultural  distinction.  In 
literature  and  music  specially,  Bengal’s  attainments  were  very 
distinguished.  In  sculpture  and  miniature  painting  her 
contribution  was  far  from  negligible.  She  had  developed  her 
own  style  of  temple  architecture.  In  religious  and  social 
thought,  as  in  literature,  Bengal  took  a lead:  the  Bengali 
school  of  Tantrist  mysticism  was  the  precursor  of  the  Bhaktu 
movement  which  inaugurated  spiritual  and  social  emancipa- 
tion for  the  common  people  in  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth 
centuries.  It  is  true  that  the  whole  of  Bengal  did  not  fall 
into  the  hands  of  the  Turk  adventurers  in  a few  years  on 
decades.  East  Bengal  and  the  fringes  of  North  and  West 
Bengal  continued  to  be  independent  or  semi-independent  for 
a century  or  more.  But  the  most  important,  we  may  call 
international,  seats  of  learning  and  culture  were  the 
immediate  victims.  The  fall  of  the  great  monasteries  and 
universities  of  Nalanda,  Vikramasila  (founded  by  Dharma- 
pala),  TadibadI,  Jagandala  (established  by  Rama  pala), 
Pandubhumi  (established  by  Pandudasa)  and  others  extin- 
guished higher  learning  and  advanced  thought  in  Bihar 
and  Bengal.  The  brahmanical  scholars  themselves  did  not 
generally  live  in  monastaries  like  the  Buddhist  Mahaviharas 
but  they  too  did  not  fare  very  differently  inasmuch  as  their 
rich  patrons  were  no  longer  there  to  encourage  and  sustain 
them.  On  the  fall  of  the  country  many  of  the  surviving 
scholars,  Buddhist  and  brahmanical,  went  over  to  Nepal,  to 
Tirhut  (which  preserved  its  independence  up  to  the  end  of 
the  first  quarter  of  the  fourteenth  century)  and  to  the  frontier 
territories  of  West,  North  and  East  Bengal.  Nepal  and 


38 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


North  Bihar,  and  after  the  fall  of  North  Bihar  in  early 
fourteenth  century  Nepal  alone,  offered  a very  hospitable 
welcome  to  the  pundits  and  poets  from  the  south  and 
south-east  who  took  with  them  as  much  of  their  precious 
equipment  including  manuscripts  as  they  could  save. 

In  consequence  of  the  atrocities  directed  mainly  to 
looting  of  townships  and  to  destruction  of  temples,  monaste- 
ries and  other  seats  of  devotion  and  learning,  which  appeared 
as  forts  or  palaces  to  the  invaders,  the  intellectual  activities 
of  Bengal  apparently  came  to  a stop  for  about  a couple  of 
centuries,  and  as  a result  we  draw  a perfect  blank  for  the 
period  in  the  literary  and  cultural  history  of  the  country. 
Not  a single  line  of  literary  composition  in  Bengali  can  be 
assigned  with  any  assurance  to  this  dark  period  of  early 
Muhammedan  rule,  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth  centuries. 

But  when  Bengal  had  cut  off  its  administrative  connec- 
tion with  Delhi  and  had  become  once  again  an  independent 
kingdom,  the  people  of  the  land  found  something  like  a 
proper  atmosphere  and  incentive  for  literary  and  other  in- 
tellectual activities.  Some  of  the  old  traditions  of  the  Pala 
and  the  Sena  court  were  revived  at  Gaud.  The  officialdom 
of  the  Hindu  days  that  had  survived  the  onslaught  tried  its 
best  to  maintain,  however  humbly,  shadow  courts  of  its  own. 
The  poets  and  panegyrists  attached  to  such  courts  were  all 
Sanskrit  scholars  as  the  vernacular  had  as  yet  no  prestige 
in  high  society.  When  influential  Hindus  found  honoured 
positions  in  the  sultan’s  darbar  they  naturally  tried  their  best 
to  get  royal  recognition  for  their  proteges  too.  This  was 
the  way  how  cultural  and  literary  activity  in  Bengal  began 
to  assert  itself  slowly  but  surely  from  the  beginning  of  the 
fifteenth  century.  But  it  is  very  doubtful  how  long  such 
activity  would  have  continued  effectively  had  not  the  atmos- 
phere of  the  sultan’s  darbar  been  changed  by  the  occupation 
of  the  throne  for  some  time  by  the  Hindu  king  Kamsa 
(Ganesa)-Danujamardana  and  his  son  Mahendra-Jalaluddin. 
The  predominantly  Hindu  (and  Bengali)  colour  and  tone 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  39 


of  the  court  atmosphere  did  not  disappear  altogether  during 
the  rule  of  the  later  sultans.  It  was  as  much  by  their  own 
inclination  as  by  the  inducement  of  their  Hindu  ministers 
and  officers  that  the  sultans  continued  to  give  patronage  to 
pundits  and  poets.  The  author  of  one  of  the  oldest  narrative 
poems  in  Bengali  received  the  patronage  of  the  sultan 
Ruknuddin  Barbak  Shah.  From  the  beginning  of  the 
sixteenth  century  some  outlying  centres  of  administration 
and  independent  or  semi-independent  states  began  to  foster 
cultural  and  literary  activity.  But  the  mainspring  of  literary 
exuberance  was  at  once  shifted  from  official  and  aristocratic 
patronage  to  individual  inspiration  when  Chaitanya  appeared 
on  the  scene. 

Like  all  momentous  events,  the  Turki  invasion  and 
Muslim  occupation  of  Bengal  too,  were  not  an  unmixed  evil. 
Superstitious  belief  and  derogatory  practices  were  slowly 
destroying  the  initiative  spirit  of  the  people  both  high 
and  low.  Astrologers  were  preferred  to  aimy  commanders 
when  a battle  was  inevitable.  The  gulf  between  the  upper 
and  lower  classes  was  widening.  The  Muslim  impact  struck 
a stunning  blow  to  the  self-complacency  of  the  ruling  classes 
and  of  the  priesthood.  The  social  and  cultural  set-up  was 
shattered,  but  out  of  the  debris  emerged  a new  people. 
This  regeneration  of  Bengal  is  personified  in  Chaitanya,  in 
its  strength  as  well  as  in  its  weakness. 

The  pundits  and  poets  writing  in  Sanskrit  were 
silenced  but  not  the  singers  of  mystic  cults  and  the  rhapso- 
dists  of  popular  dieties,  who  had  no  prominence.  The 
activities  of  these  unknown  village  poets  and  singers  were 
not  manifest  at  the  time  we  are  speaking  of,  but  they 
emerged  with  finished  forms  in  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth 
centuries.  The  forms  and  the  contents  of  the  Middle 
Bengali  narrative  and  lyrical  poetry  presuppose  uninter- 
rupted cultivation  for  centuries.  The  earlier  efforts  have  not 
been  preserved  for  more  than  one  reason.  Being  almost 
exclusively  ‘religious’  poems  they  were  sung  and  chanted  as 


40 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


part  of  rituals  and  were  often  extempore  ; a permanent  form 
was  given  to  them  only  when  the  rituals  had  been  accepted 
widely  and  had  insinuated  themselves  into  the  higher  society. 
It  was  aristocratic  patronage  that  helped  materially  to  draw 
out  the  polished  efforts  of  a poet.  In  some  cases  the  early 
tentative  and  inadequate  compositions  were  subsequently 
absorbed  in  or  eclipsed  by  the  achievement  of  a later  and 
better  writer. 


During  the  long  period  that  has  left  a blank  in  the  literary 
history  of  Bengal,  indigenous  myths  and  legends  inherited 
from  Old  and  Middle  Indo- Aryan  and  gathered  from  the 
various  ethnic  and  cultural  groups  began  to  blend  and 
crystallize  round  popular  deities  or  semi-mythical  figures. 
A new  myth  of  cosmogony  was  evolved,  which  is  different 
from  the  Sanskrit  tradition  but  which  has  an  unmistakable 
affinity  with  the  cosmogonic  hymn  of  the  Rigveda  (10.129) 
and  with  the  Polynesian  myth  of -creation.  As  in  the  Sanskrit 
Puranas  the  Middle  Bengali  narrative  poems  on  the  popular 
deities  like  Manasa,  Candl  and  Dharma  invariably  begin 
with  the  cosmogony  associated  with  these  cults.  The  poems 
on  the  Krishna  legend  or  on  the  stories  from  the  Ramayana 
and  the  Mahdbharata  never  begin  with  this  cosmogony,  which 
may  be  griefly  narrated  here. 

Before  the  creation  of  the  universe  there  was  only  the 
void  encompassed  in  darkness.  The  first  impulse  of  creation 
appeared  as  a bubble  in  the  void,  and  it  gradually  took  the 
shape  of  an  egg  out  of  which  came  Dharma,  the  formless, 
speckless,  original  God.  Now  there  was  water  everywhere  in 
the  broken  egg-shell  of  the  universe  and  Dharma  was 
floating  in  it  helplessly.  Then  he  released  a long  sigh 
(according  to  a second  version  he  yawned)  from  which  was 
brought  forth  the  Owl  (or  Grey  Crow).  Riding  on  the  Owl 
Dharma  began  to  fly  around  for  aeons  and  could  not  come 
to  rest.  At  long  last  he  scraped  off  a bit  of  dirt  from  his 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  41 


body  and  dropped  it  into  the  water,  and  this  bit  of  dirt  formed 
the  triangular  earth.  Tired  of  continuous  flying  Dharma 
now  came  down  to  have  some  rest.  From  a drop  of  his  sweat 
(or,  from  a chest  bone  of  his)  came  out  his  spouse  Ketaka 
the  prime  goddess. 

Dharma  then  created  the  river  Balluka  in  the  centre  of 
a corner  of  the  triangular  earth  and  grew  a banian  tree  by 
the  side  of  the  river.  Leaving  Ketaka  for  good  Dharma 
went  away  to  the  river  to  do  penance.  The  Owl  followed 
him  there,  perched  on  a branch  of  the  banian  tree  and  kept 
watch.  Meantime  Ketaka  was  feeling  strongly  the  absence 
of  her  husband.  Her  passionate  thoughts  emerged  as  Desire 
{Kama).  She  sent  Desire  to  Balluka  to  fetch  Dharma.  The 
approach  of  Desire  disturbed  the  mental  equanimity  of 
Dharma  and  his  sap  was  spilled.  The  Owl  collected  it  in  an 
earthen  pot  and  left  it  with  Ketaka  to  be  cautiously  guarded 
as  a virulent  poison.  Dharma’s  continued  indifference 
prompted  Ketaka  to  commit  suicide  by  drinking  the  poison 
pot.  It  did  not  however  result  in  her  death  but  brought 
about  her  conception.  In  course  of  time  she  gave  birth  to 
three  sons,  the  three  chief  gods  Brahma,  Visnu  and  Siva. 
Brahma  came  out  of  her  mouth,  Visnu  out  of  her  forehead 
and  Siva  in  the  natural  way.  Not  finding  their  father  at 
home  they  asked  their  mother  for  his  whereabouts.  Ketaka 
directed  them  to  the  Balluka.  Dharma  did  not  wish  to 
reveal  himself  to  the  three  gods  and  had  disappeared  when 
the  brothers  arrived.  Not  finding  their  father  they  sat  down 
to  do  penance  on  the  bank  of  the  river.  After  a time 
Dharma  wanted  to  put  his  sons  to  test.  He  came  to  them 
in  the  form  of  a decomposed  cadaver  floating  down  the 
river.  Brahma  pushed  it  away  in  disgust.  So  did  Visnu. 
When  the  corpse  floated  down  to  Siva  he  forthwith  knew 
it  to  be  the  body  of  their  father.  But  his  brothers  were  not 
convinced  until  they  were  enlightened  by  the  Owl.  They 
now  sent  the  Owl  to  find  a place  where  the  body  could  be 
cremated.  The  Owl  came  back  and  reported  that  the  only 


42 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


place  on  which  nothing  had  been  burnt  before  was  a very 
small  plot  on  the  southern  sea-coast,  but  it  was  reserved 
for  the  avatar  of  Dharma  in  the  Kali  age.  On  the  advice 
of  the  Owl  the  dead  body  of  Dharma  was  cremated  on  the  lap 
of  Siva  ; Visnu  supplied  the  fuel  and  Brahma  set  the  flame. 
The  gods  then  busied  themselves  in  the  business  of  creating 
the  world,  mortal  and  divine.  Ketaka  was  reborn  as  Candi* 
and  Siva  married  her.1 

This  much  of  the  story  is  common.  After  this  the  tale 
has  several  sequels:  (i)  the  legends  of  the  ‘Natha’  gurus; 
(ii)  the  legends  of  Manasa  ; and  (iii)  the  legends  of  the 
Dharma  worship.  The  ‘Natha’  cult  is  so  called  as  the  names 
of  almost  all  the  gurus  end  in  the  word  natha.  It  is  an 
esoteric  yoga  cult  based  on  austere  self-negation  and  complete 
control  over  the  vital,  mental  and  emotional  functions.  In 
its  original  form  it  was  atheistic  like  early  Buddhism.  But 
it  came  under  the  influence  of  Saivite  asceticism  and 
Tantric  yoga.  In  the  original  story  Goraksanatha  seems  to 
have  been  the  first  Natha  guru  and  Mlnanatha  belonged  to 
another  tradition.  The  two  came  to  figure  together  in  the 
same  story  after  the  influence  of  Siva  worship  had  seeped  into 
the  Natha  cult.  Insinuation  of  Tantric  yoga  resulted  in  the 
acceptance  of  Jalandhari,  Kanha  and  a few  other  historical 
persons  among  the  early  gurus  of  the  cult.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  the  cult  originated  in  Eastern  India,  probably  in 
Bengal,  long  before  the  fourteenth  century.  But  its  myth 
and  legends  took  definite  form  during  the  dark  centuries. 
From  Bengal  the  cult  and  its  legends  spread  out  in  all 
directions.  The  split-ear  (‘Kan-phat’)  yogis  are  known  all 
over  India— in  the  Punjab,  in  Rajputana,  in  Maharashtra 
and  elsewhere.  In  the  traditional  verses  of  the  non-Bengali 
yogis  there  are  sufficient  linguistic  indications  of  their 
Bengali  origin. 

The  name  of  Goraksanatha  does  not  occur  in  the 

1 According  to  a second  version  Ketaka  died  a suttie,  and  Siva  collected 
her  bones  and  wore  them  as  a chaplet. 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  43 


Buddhistic  and  non-Buddhistic  Tantric  tradition.  It  first 
appears  in  the  list  of  the  sixty-four  spiritual  masters  ( Siddhas ) 
in  Jyotirisvara’s  V arnanaratnakara.  It  is  likely  that  the 
school  of  Goraksanatha  had  its  ultimate  origin  among  the 
people  living  in  the  Himalayan  foothills,  and  the  tribal  name 
Gorkha  points  to  that.  There  is  however  no  evidence  for 
the  historicity  of  Goraksanatha,  but  one  Minanatha  was 
known  to  the  Buddhist  mystics.  Munidatta  in  his  com- 
mentary on  the  carya  songs  quotes  a four-lined  Bengali  verse 
from  a work  of  Minanatha,  as  translated  below. 

The  guru  gives  directions  of  the  path  to  the  supreme 
goal,  that  is  the  closing  of  the  trapdoor  on  activity — the 
stag.  A snail  will  not  proclaim  the  opening  of  a lotus- 
bud,  but  a bee  fumbles  not  for  a drink  of  lotus-honey. 

The  earliest  known  work  of  the  Goraksa-Mlna  story  is 
a short  musical  play  by  Vidyapati  ( Goraksavijaya ) written 
in  Sanskrit  and  vernacular,  some  time  about  1403. 

The  tradition  of  the  Siddhas  was  already  forming  among 
the  Buddhist  Tantrists.  The  High  Lord  (Parasvdmin)  Ratna, 
who  was  the  son  of  a king  and  was  named  Nrsimha,  wrote  at 
the  instance  of  a female  mystic  ( Dakirii ) two  works  describing 
the  glorious  activities  ( avadana ) of  fifty  Siddhas  and  of 
thirty-five  Jndna-Ddkims.  These  works  were  translated  into 
Tibetan  in  the  fourteenth  century  or  earlier.  We  can  take 
it  that  they  contained  the  germs  of  the  legends  connected 
with  Siddhas  Jalandhari,  Kanha,  Gabhura,  Caurangl  and 
others  and  of  the  story  of  Jndna-Ddkini  Mayanamati — stories 
that  are  narrated  in  some  Middle  Bengali  dramatic  and 
narrative  poems. 

The  story  of  the  origin  of  the  Natha  gurus  is  a con- 
tinuation of  the  cosmogony  narration  of  the  Dharma  cult, 
occurring  in  the  Middle  Bengali  poems  which  describe  the 
greatness  of  Goraksanatha  and  the  legends  connected  with 
the  worship  of  the  deity  Dharma.  The  story  of  the  Natha 
Siddhas  is  briefly  as  follows: 


44 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


From  the  ashes  of  the  cremated  body  of  Dharma 
( Adinatha , accoi'ding  to  the  Natha  legends)  originated  the 
five  cardinal  Siddhas — Minanatha  (also  called  Matsyendra- 
natha,  from  which  Hindi  Macchindar,  Bengali  Mocandar) 
from  the  navel,  Goraksanatha  from  the  forehead,  Jalandhari 
(in  Bengal  also  called  Hadi-pa,  this  name  occurring  also  in 
Jyotirisvara’s  list  of  the  Siddhas)  from  the  bones,  Kanha 
(later  Kana-pa)  from  the  ears,  and  Caurangi  from  the  feet. 
These  origins  are  obviously  late,  being  based  on  folk- 
etymology  of  the  names.  Hadi-pa  was  so  called  as  he  had 
acted  as  a sweeper.  Kana  comes  not  from  karna  ‘ear’  but 
from  Krsna.  Caurangi  was  so  called  as  he  wore  a garment 
made  of  four  coloured  ( catu-rahga ) piece  of  cloth  ; carana 
‘feet’  is  a faint  echo  of  the  first  two  syllables  of  his  name. 
Minanatha  became  Siva’s  disciple,  Goraksa  Mina’s,  and 
Kana  Jalandhari’s.  There  is  no  mention  of  the  affiliation 
of  Jalandhari  and  Caurangi.  All  the  five,  however,  followed 
the  leadership  of  Siva,  who  alone  possessed  the  Supreme 
Knowledge  ( Mahajnana ).  Siva’s  spouse  Candi  was  eager  to 
learn  the  Supreme  Knowledge  from  Siva.  But  he  was  not 
willing  to  impart  it  to  a woman  who  might  not  keep  it  to 
herself.  The  possession  of  the  Supreme  Knowledge  would 
make  one  immortal,  and  the  purpose  of  the  creation  of  the 
world  would  be  defeated  if  it  was  made  a common  knowledge. 
But  Siva  could  not  resist  his  wife’s  nagging  for  long.  He 
took  her  to  a high  platform  or  jetty  on  the  sea  so  that  he 
could  not  be  overheard.  Minanatha  had  got  wind  of  this 
and  was  already  stationed  under  the  jetty  to  receive  Siva’s 
revelation  surreptitiously.  Dharma’s  factotum,  the  Owl, 
came  to  know  of  Candi’s  intention  to  beguile  Siva  for  the 
Supreme  Knowledge.  He  informed  the  Supreme  Lord  who 
made  the  goddess  fall  asleep — which  Siva  did  not  notice.  He 
went  on  talking,  and  perceiving  that  a total  silence  from 
Candi  would  draw  Siva’s  attention  to  her  Minanatha  made 
suitable  sounds  at  intervals.  When  the  talk  came  to  an  end 
Candi  woke  up  and  asked  Siva  to  start  speaking,  Siva  knew 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  45 


then  that  Minanatha  had  thus  obtained  the  Supreme 
Knowledge.  He  put  a curse  on  Mlnanatha  that  he  would 
forget  it  in  time  of  dire  need. 

Candi  did  not  like  that  the  Siddha  followers  of  Siva 
should  remain  celibate  while  their  guru  led  a married  life. 
But  the  Siddhas  would  not  listen  to  her,  and  she  stooped  to 
mean  tricks  to  awaken  sex  hunger  in  them.  All  but 
Goraksanatha  were  outwitted  by  her,  and  in  consequence  they 
were  doomed  to  lead  a life,  temporary  at  least,  according  to 
their  desires.  Mlnanatha  went  to  Kamarup  to  rule  there 
over  the  kingdom  of  women.  Jalandhari  joined  the  services 
of  Mayanamatl,  the  dowager  queen  of  Patika,  as  a stable- 
sweeper.  Kana  was  sent  to  Dahuka  but  his  experiences  there 
are  not  available.  The  fifth  Siddha  lived  in  incest  with  his 
stepmother. 

Goraksanatha’s  resistance  whipped  the  goddess  to  make 
further  attempts  that  were  disgusting,  to  say  the  least.  There 
is  unquestionably  conscious  attempt  here  on  the  part  of  the 
yogi  poets  to  condemn  women  as  possessing  mean  and  vulgar 
motives.  Candl’s  pride  was  soon  humbled,  but  she  escaped 
chastisement  from  Goraksanatha  by  the  timely  intervention 
of  Siva.  Four  of  the  Siddha  followers  had  already  dispersed. 
Siva  and  Candi  now  went  away  to  Kailasa  leaving  Goraksa- 
natha free  to  wander  about  in  the  world  of  men.  His  regular 
haunt  was  the  shade  of  a Bakula  tree  in  Vijaynagar.  One 
day  he  met  Kana  there.  The  meeting  was  extremely 
unfriendly,  but  it  terminated  in  the  exchange  of  news  about 
their  gurus.  Kana  learned  that  his  guru  Jalandhari  had 
been  buried  alive  by  the  order  of  Govindacandra  (or  Gopi- 
candra)  the  son  of  Mayanamatl.  Goraksa  was  informed  that 
his  guru  Mina  was  steeped  in  the  pleasures  and  sorrows  of 
domestic  life  and  was  at  the  door  of  death.  Goraksa  at  once 
speeded  towards  the  kingdom  of  women  over  whom  Mina 
was  ruling  as  the  only  male  person.  Anticipating  some  such 
move  from  his  yogi  followers  Mina’s  queens  had  strictly 
forbidden  the  entrance  of  any  male  adult,  not  to  speak  of 


46 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


a yogi.  Goraksa  secured  a comparatively  easy  entrance  in 
the  guise  of  a danseuse.  Coming  to  know  that  an  unknown 
dancing  girl  had  arrived  Mina  commanded  her  to  be  brought 
before  him.  Goraksa  was  astounded  to  find  the  change  in 
his  guru.  Mina  had  forgotten  the  Supreme  Knowledge  and 
was  leading  a dissipated  life.  He  was  wrecked  in  body  and 
crippled  in  mind,  and  his  death  did  not  appear  to  be  far  off. 
Goraksa  had  expected  that  his  guru  would  recognize  him  at 
sight  and  everything  would  then  be  easy.  But  Mina  took 
him  to  be  a dancing  girl  and  asked  her  to  show  her 
performance.  Goraksa  found  himself  in  the  extremely 
awkward  position  of  a disciple  obliged  to  instruct  his  master 
and  that  through  music  and  dance.  He  dared  not  reveal 
his  identity  as  that  would  mean  his  immediate  removal.  He 
started  his  show  trying  his  best  to  communicate  with  his  guru 
by  the  beat  of  the  drum  and  the  jingle  of  the  anklets.  When 
Mina’s  interest  was  awakened  Goraksa  began  to  sing  riddle 
songs  conveying  high  spiritual  truths: 

Not  a drop  of  water  is  there  in  the  pond  ; why  does  it 
then  overflow  the  banks?  There  had  never  been  an  egg 
in  the  nest ; why  do  the  young  ones  flutter  therein? 
There  is  not  a man  in  the  city,  but  it  is  overcrowded  with 
houses.  A blind  man  keeps  a shop  and  his  customer  is 
a deaf  fellow.  Let  the  rains  cease  and  let  fish  go  to  the 
bottom  of  the  pond.  The  deep  sea  is  to  be  crossed  over 
in  a small  dinghy. 

On  hearing  these  verses  the  Supreme  Knowledge  came 
back  to  Mina  in  a flash  ; the  master  was  fully  awakened  by 
the  disciple.  The  spell  of  the  women  was  at  once  broken. 
Goraksa  returned  to  his  seat  under  the  Bakula  tree  in 
Vijayanagar  and  Mlnanatha  established  a monastary  at 
Mahanad. 

Before  we  resume  the  episode  describing  the  activities 
of  Kana  subsequent  to  his  meeting  with  Goraksa  the  story 
of  Mayanamati  is  to  be  told.  In  her  early  youth  Mayanamatl 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  47 


Bad  met  a Siddha  who  had  initiated  her  into  mystic  Tantrism 
or  yoga.  The  name  of  her  guru  in  some  versions  is  given 
as  Mmanatha,  but  he  seems  to  have  been  no  other  person 
than  Jalandhari,  who  after  his  dismissal  by  Siva  had  come 
to  Mayanamatl  and  lived  incognito  working  as  a stable- 
sweeper.  Mayanamati  was  the  wife  of  Manikacandra  the 
king  of  Patika.  After  her  marriage  Mayanamatl  tried  to 
initiate  her  husband  in  the  path  of  tantra  or  yoga.  Manika- 
candra now  knew  her  to  be  a Jnana  Dakin!  and  he  became 
afraid  of  her  occult  powers.  Before  he  could  submit  to  the 
will  of  his  wife  he  died.  Subsequently  Govindacandra 
was  born  to  Mayanamatl.  On  coming  of  age  he  was  married 
to  two  very  beautiful  girls  and  began  to  pass  his  days  in 
pleasure. 

Mayanamati  was  anxious  for  the  continuity  of  her 
husband’s  line.  But  she  knew  that  her  son  was  destined  to 
be  childless.  The  only  way  for  continuation  of  the  line  was 
by  prolonging  the  life  of  Govindacandra  indefinitely.  That 
could  be  done  only  by  taking  initiation  from  a Siddha  yogi 
and  practising  yoga  as  a mendicant.  She  asked  her  son  to 
become  a disciple  of  Jalandhari  and  renounce  home-life  for 
some  time  at  least.  Govindacandra  felt  outraged  that  he 
a king  and  son  of  a king  was  asked  to  bow  at  the  feet  of  a low- 
caste  (‘Hadi’)  stable-sweeper.  She  replied  explaining  that  the 
word  ‘Hadi’  really  meant  one  possessing  bones  (‘hada’)  in 
the  body. 

Govindacandra  submitted  to  her  mother’s  ministrations 
half-heartedly.  He  took  initiation  from  Jalandhari  but 
continued  enjoying  the  home-life  of  ease.  He  soon  began  to 
make  fun  of  the  occult  powers  that  had  come  to  him, 
a neophyte  on  the  path  of  yoga.  His  guru  came  to  know 
of  this  and  withdrew  the  powers  from  him.  The  king  was 
humbled  before  his  wives.  He  was  extremely  displeased 
with  his  guru  and  had  him  buried  alive.  Kana  came  to  know 
this  plight  of  his  guru  from  Goraksa.  He  hurried  to  Patika 
and  in  the  guise  of  a child  yogi  secured  an  entry  into  the 


48 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


city.  He  came  to  the  court  of  the  king  and  overawed 
him  by  a show  of  his  occult  powers.  Govindacandra  ordered 
Jalandhari’s  grave  to  be  opened.  On  coming  out  of  his  grave 
die  guru  wanted  to  face  the  king.  On  the  advice  of  Kana 
a gold  statuette  of  Govindacandra  (according  to  a West 
Indian  version,  a plate  of  split  peas)  was  placed  before  the 
Siddha.  When  his  look  fell  on  it  the  statuette  (or  the  plate 
of  split  peas)  was  burnt  to  ashes.  This,  repeated  twice, 
exhausted  the  anger  of  the  guru.  Govindacandra,  chastised 
and  humbled,  was  fully  ready  to  do  the  guru’s  biddings. 
Jalandhari  now  gave  him  full  initiation  into  yoga.  The 
king  exchanged  his  royal  robes  for  rags,  shaved  his  head, 
wore  a pair  of  conchshell  earrings  and  other  insignia  of  a 
yogi,  smeared  himself  with  ashes  and  left  home.  The 
subsequent  activities  of  Govindacandra  follow  the  usual 
folk-tale  pattern  and  were  moulded  according  to  local  taste 
and  popular  proclivity. 

Attempts  have  been  made  to  prove  the  historicity  of 
the  story  of  Mayanamatl  and  Govindacandra.  But  the 
material  at  our  disposal  does  not  allow  us  to  build  up  an 
historical  hypothesis.  We  do  not  know  whether  there  were 
any  such  kings  as  Manikacandra  and  Govindacandra  at  old 
Pattikera  or  modern  Meherakula  in  Tipperah.  But  this 
much  can  be  said  that  the  story  of  the  early  life  of  the 
Tan  trie  mystic  Bhusuku,  as  recorded  in  early  Nepalese  tradi- 
tion, reads  much  like  the  beginning  of  our  story.  The  story 
of  Bhusuku  appearing  in  a small  Sanskrit  manuscript  written 
in  Nepal  in  the  fourteenth  or  the  fifteenth  century  begins  as 
follows : 

Bhusuku  whose  real  name  was  Acalasena  was  the  son  of 
a king  Manjuvarman.  When  he  was  being  anointed  as  the 
crown  prince,  his  mother,  a Vajra-I)akini,  poured  hot  water 
over  him.  The  young  man  shrieked  in  pain  and  asked  his 
mother  why  she  did  so.  The  mother  replied:  ‘My  son,  these 
three  persons  never  go  to  heaven, — a king,  a painter  and  a 
poet  ; and  you  would  have  to  go  through  greater  sufferings 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  49 


if  you  be  a king.  Better  leave  home  and  take  initiation  from 
the  master  at  the  monastary  dedicated  to  the  deity  Manju- 
ghosa.’  The  young  prince  acted  on  his  mother’s  advice. 

The  grand  tale  of  a mother  sending  away  her  only  son, 
a king,  from  home  to  live  the  life  of  a wandering  beggar 
naturally  became  very  popular  among  the  people  who  came 
in  contact  with  the  itinerant  yogis,  and  it  spread  to  the  remote 
corners  of  Aryan-speaking  India.  This  had  happened  long 
before  the  sixteenth  century,  for  the  story  is  referred  to  by 
Jaisi  in  his  Padmavati.  It  is  also  referred  to  by  Taranath 
in  his  accounts  of  the  Siddhas  and  he  even  quoted  two 
sentences  from  a Bengali  original.  Its  popularity  in  Bengal 
in  the  fifteenth  century  is  vouchsafed  by  the  statement  of 
a poet  of  the  early  sixteenth  century.  The  oldest  known 
Bengali  work  existing  on  the  Mayanamatl-Govindacandra 
story  is  a play  written  in  Nepal  in  the  early  seventeenth 
century.  But  the  poems  written  in  Bengal  belong  to  the 
late  eighteenth  or  the  early  nineteenth  century. 

The  Natha  yogis  and  their  lay  followers  were  considered 
outcastes  as  they  did  not  follow  the  rules  of  the  brahmanical 
orthodox  society.  Consequently  their  songs  were  not  con- 
sidered elegant  enough  for  the  upper  classes.  The  result  has 
been  that  Middle  Bengali  poets  of  power  could  not  work 
upon  one  of  the  grandest  themes  of  old  literature  of  any 
country.  It  may  be  said,  however,  that  the  poets  of  the 
sixteenth  century  had  a good  substitute  of  the  theme  in  the 
life  of  Chaitanya. 


The  story  of  Manasa  the  queen  of  serpents  is  of  complex 
origin.  The  ultimate  connection  of  the  story  with  the  legend 
of  cosmogony  connected  with  the  Dharma  cult  rests  on 
a slender  thread:  Ketaka  is  a synonym  of  Manasa,  and  the 
name  Manasa  indicates  her  origin  in  Siva’s  sexual  desire. 
Manasa  seems  to  have  been  originally  a lewd  goddess  ; her 
incestuous  relationship  with  Siva  is  hinted  at  not  onlv  in 
4 


50 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


the  Manasamangal  poems  but  in  other  Middle  Bengali  works 
also.  In  the  story  of  Behula  which  forms  the  final  and  the 
most  important  episode  of  the  Manasamangal  poetry  her 
voluptuous  nature  could  not  be  entirely  whitewashed. 

The  story  of  Manasa  which  clearly  indicates  the  way  in 
which  various  legends  and  myths  were  integrated  comprises 
three  parts:  (?)  the  birth  of  the  goddess,  her  conflict  and 
reconciliation  with  Candl  and  her  marriage  with  Jaratkaru  ; 
(ii)  Manasa’s  quest  for  human  worship,  taxing  first  cowherd 
boys,  then  a Muslim  farmer  and  then  a fisherman  family  ; 
and  (Hi)  finally  her  recognition  by  Cando  the  merchant 
prince.  The  last  part  contains  the  most  popular  episode, 
the  story  of  Behula,  which  was  grafted  partly  from  folk-lore 
and  partly  from  very  old  mythology.  The  story  is  briefly 
told  below. 

Manasa  was  born  of  Siva’s  seed  dropping  on  a lotus  leaf 
(whence  her  name  Padma  or  Padmavatl)  and  reared  by  the 
mother  of  the  serpent-demigod  Vasuki  whose  people  were 
skilled  artisans  (karu,  taksan  ; Bengali  ‘nirmani’).  She  was 
acknowledged  by  the  serpents  ( naga ) as  their  queen  and  was 
given  the  control  of  their  poison  store.  One  day  as  she  was 
sporting  in  a lake  her  father  Siva  saw  her  and  not  knowing 
her  to  be  his  daughter  offered  his  love  to  her.  She  revealed 
her  identity  to  him  and  wanted  to  accompany  him  home. 
Siva  was  not  willing  to  take  her  home  as  he  knew  that  his 
wife  Candl  would  never  like  her.  But  he  could  not  resist 
Manasa’s  entreaties  and  he'  brought  her  home  surrepti- 
tiously. Cancli  soon  found  her  out  and  taking  her  to  be 
her  husband’s  another  wife  fell  foul  of  her.  The  brawl 
ended  in  a scuffle,  resulting  in  the  loss  of  one  eye  of  Manasa. 
Domestic  peace  was  restored  on  Siva  promising  to  banish 
his  daughter.  Siva  asked  Manasa  to  come  away  with  him. 
They  left  home  and  after  a long  trek  came  to  a forest.  In 
the  centre  of  the  forest  there  was  a hill  capped  by  a shady 
tree.  They  came  up  there  and  sat  down  to  rest.  Manasa 
stretched  herself  on  the  ground  and  fell  asleep.  Siva  took 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  51 


this  opportunity  to  slip  away.  At  the  moment  of  departure 
Siva  felt  pity  for  the  girl  he  was  leaving  helpless  and  dropped 
a tear.  From  the  tear-drop  came  out  the  girl  Neta  (or 
Netravatl).2  He  appointed  her  as  Manasa’s  chaperon  and 
counsellor.  Then  he  created  their  male  guard  Dhamai  out 
of  his  sweat.  Thus  satisfying  his  conscience  Siva  returned 
home. 

There  arose  a trouble  in  the  domain  of  the  gods.  The 
new-born  calf  of  the  divine  cow  Kapila  not  finding  a feed  in 
time  drank  up  the  sea  of  the  Balluka  which  was  the  main 
water  supply  for  the  pious  section  of  the  gods.  On  the  advice 
of  Siva  the  gods  propitiated  Kapila  who  gave  milk  to  fill  up 
the  sea.  But  the  trouble  did  not  end.  A parrot  while  flying 
over  the  sea  dropped  a tamarind  which  it  was  fetching  for 
a sage.  The  fruit  was  so  sour  that  the  milk  of  the  Balluka 
turned  into  curds.  The  gods  were  again  in  a fix.  There 
was  no  other  way  but  to  churn  the  sea  so  that  the  curds  would 
be  liquified.  (The  story  here  follows  the  Purana  episode.) 
The  good  things  that  were  churned  out  of  the  sea  were  taken 
by  Visnu,  Indra  and  other  prominent  gods.  When  Siva  and 
the  Asuras  came  nothing  was  left  for  them.  They  now  in- 
sisted on  a second  churning,  which  turned  up  only  poison 
that  threatened  the  destruction  of  the  universe.  Siva  was 
persuaded  by  the  gods  to  drink  up  the  poison  and  thereby 
save  the  creation.  The  poison  was  too  much  for  him  and 
he  fell  down  senseless.  Manasa  was  called  to  resuscitate  her 
father.  She  did  it  and  as  a reward  she  was  given  a seat  in 
the  assembly  of  the  gods.  But  even  a goddess  must  marry. 
She  was  given  in  marriage  to  the  sage  Jaratkaru,  who  left  her 
in  a few  days.  But  a son  was  born.  He  was  Astika,  and  the 
story  how  he  prevented  Janamejaya  from  completing  the 
Snake  Sacrifice  is  also  told  in  the  Mahabharata.  Here  ends 
the  first  or  the  Puranic  part  of  the  legend. 

Divinity  of  the  gods  depends  on  their  recognition  by  man. 


2 This  origin  is  probably  based  on  folk-etymology.  Neta  was  the  name 
•of  the  brahmanical  Tantric  demi-goddess,  Nitya.  (Also  see  p.  54). 


52 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


A god  is  no  god  until  he  is  worshipped  by  man.  So  Manasa 
was  eager  to  secure  human  devotees.  Accompanied  by  Neta 
she  came  down  to  earth  and  met  some  cowherd  boys  tending 
a herd  of  cattle  in  the  meadow.  She  approached  them  in  the 
guise  of  an  old  brahman  lady  and  demanded  worship  from 
them.  The  boys  took  her  to  be  a witch  and  pelted  stones  at 
her  to  drive  her  away.  To  teach  them  a lesson  Manasa  made 
the  cattle  fall  into  a deep  water-hole.  Now  the  boys  had  to 
appease  her  in  order  to  get  the  cattle  out  of  the  hole. 
Manasa  then  demanded  a drink  of  milk.  As  there  was  no 
pot  Manasa  gave  them  the  small  wicker  basket  she  was 
carrying.  The  head  boy  milked  the  cow  that  had  ceased  to 
give  milk  and  offered  the  drink  in  the  basket.  The  goddess 
drank  milk  from  it  with  her  head  held  down.  The  cowherds 
were  now  convinced  of  her  divinity.  They  agreed  to  worship 
her  every  year  on  the  tenth  day  of  the  bright  fortnight  in 
the  month  of  Jyaistha  (May-June).3  The  goddess  would  be 
represented  by  a small  pitcher  filled  with  water  and  capped 
by  a twig  of  the  Sij  plant.  The  worship  of  Manasa  brought 
quick  prosperity  to  them. 

But  their  enthusiasm  for  the  worship  of  a new  deity  soon 
brought  them  into  conflict  with  the  Muslim  farmers  of  the 
neighbourhood.  Manasa  did  not  miss  this  opportunity.  She 
joined  in  the  struggle  and  after  considerable  ups  and  downs 
she  was  finally  triumphant.  The  leaders  of  the  Muslim 
farmers  were  the  brothers  Husain  and  Hasan.  They  agreed 
to  make  amends.  They  built  and  endowed  a temple  for  the 
worship  of  the  goddess.  The  next  recruits  were  the  fishermen 
brothers  Jalu  and  Malu.  They  had  found  a golden  pot 
sacred  to  Manasa  from  the  bottom  of  the  river  and  their 
mother  worshipped  it.  This  brought  them  prosperity.  Here 
ends  the  second  part  of  the  story. 

The  next  and  final  objective  of  Manasa  was  a recognition 
from  the  upper  class  people,  especially  from  the  merchant 


3 Different  summer  months  are  mentioned  in  the  different  versions. 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  53 


community.  Cando  the  headman  of  the  merchant  com- 
munity, was  a staunch  devotee  of  Siva.  He  possessed  Supreme 
Knowledge,  and  Siva  had  rewarded  him  with  a matted  lock 
from  his  own  head  and  a scarf.  The  possession  of  these 
things  made  Cando  a formidable  rival  of  any  god.  Manasa 
however  was  now  experienced  enough  not  to  make  a frontal 
attack.  She  sneaked  through  the  back  door.  Cando’s  wife 
had  learned  the  worship  of  the  goddess  from  the  mother  of 
Jalu  and  Malu.  Cando  at  first  did  not  know  it.  But  it  could 
not  escape  his  notice  for  long.  When  he  saw  his  wife  wor- 
shipping the  sacred  pot  he  kicked  it  away.  Manasa  was 
offended  and  she  tried  her  best  to  harm  Cando  in  various 
ways  but  she  could  not  succeed.  Then  Neta  advised  her  to 
take  away  the  gifts  of  Siva  and  to  make  him  forget  Supreme 
Knowledge.  Acting  on  this  advice  Manasa  approached 
Cando  in  the  guise  of  a young  and  charming  woman  pro- 
fessing to  be  his  sister-in-law  and  seduced  him.  Cando  lost 
his  divine  gifts  and  Supreme  Knowledge.  Manasa’s  serpents 
then  killed  the  six  grown-up  sons  of  the  merchant  prince. 
Still  Cando  would  not  bend  his  head  to  the  goddess.  His 
youngest  son  Lakhai  (or  Lakhindar)  soon  came  of  age. 
Cando  found  a very  accomplished  bride  for  him.  She  was 
Behula.  Fearing  a deadly  attack  from  Manasa  who  was 
determined  to  cut  off  his  line,  Cando  had  an  air-tight  steel 
chamber  built  for  the  newly-wed  couple  to  pass  the  bridal 
night.  But  Manasa  had  suborned  the  builder  who  had  left 
only  a pin-point  of  opening.  Through  this  the  thinnest  and 
deadliest  creature  of  Manasa  got  in  and  bit  Lakhai  mortally 
before  Behula  had  any  chance  of  bearing  the  seed  of  her 
husband.  The  last  of  his  line  and  his  best  beloved  son  thus 
died  a tragic  death,  yet  Cando  remained  intractable.  \ 
snake-bite  casualty  was  deemed  to  be  a victim  of  the  snake- 
goddess.  As  snake  worship  (as  a water  cult)  was  opposed  to 
the  fire  cult,  cremation  of  the  body  of  a person  who  had  died 
of  snake-bite  was  forbidden.  Such  a body  was  cast  away  in 
a river  or  stream.  There  was  also  a faint  hope  in  the  hearts 


54 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


of  the  bereaved  that  the  dead  might  somehow  come  to  life 
by  the  ministration  of  an  adept  or  by  the  occult  powers  of  a 
religious  mendicant.  The  dead  body  of  Lakhai  was  placed 
in  a wooden  box  and  set  adrift  in  the  Balluka.  As  Behula 
would  not  let  her  husband’s  body  out  of  sight  she  too  got 
into  the  box.  In  course  of  her  way  down  the  river  she  met 
with  repeated  temptations  and  threats  of  force  until  her  float 
reached  Triveni.  There  she  watched  how  a washerwoman 
first  killed  her  son,  did  her  washing,  then  revived  the  child 
and  went  her  way.  This  was  Neta  the  washerwoman  of  the 
gods4  and  friend  of  Manasa.  When  she  came  back  the  next 
day  Behula  made  friends  with  her.  Neta  took  Behula  to 
the  divine  assembly  and  introduced  her  as  her  niece  who 
was  a good  washerwoman  as  well  as  an  expert  danse  use. 
Behula  was  called  upon  to  show  her  dance.  Siva  and  all  the 
gods  were  highly  entertained  by  her  performance.  She  then 
told  them  her  tale  of  sorrow.  At  the  repeated  request  of  the 
gods  and  on  the  promise  of  Behula  that  she  would  make 
her  father-in-law  accept  the  divinity  of  Manasa,  the  goddess 
resuscitated  Lakhai  as  well  as  his  long-dead  brothers.  They 
returned  home  and  Cando  did  not  require  much  persuasion 
to  pay  homage  to  Manasa  in  the  proper  form. 

The  legends  and  rituals  pertaining  to  the  deity  Dharmai 
are  of  complex  origin.  They  present  a peculiar  synthesis 
of  the  Vedic  and  pre-Vedic  lore  with  the  various  non-Aryan 
cults  and  myths.  Dharma  is  partly  Varuna  and  partly  Yama 
of  the  Rigveda  ; he  is  partly  the  sun  god  of  the  later  Vedas 
and  of  the  Iranian  tradition,  and  he  is  also  the  primaeval 
god  (who  died  after  just  starting  the  process  of  the  creation 
of  the  universe)  belonging  to  some  pre-Vedic  lore.  There 
is  enough  evidence  to  indicate  that  Dharma  (and  his  sister- 
consort  Ketaka-Manasa,  a counterpart  of  Vedic  YamI)  was 

1 This  role  of  the  companion  of  Manasa  is  perhaps  based  on  a folk- 
etymology  of  the  name  (i.e.  from  the  Bengali  word  ‘neta’  meaning  fine  cloth). 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  55 


once  worshipped  as  the  village  deity  throughout  Eastern  and 
Northern  India. 

The  Dharma  worship  as  performed  even  now  in  Bengal 
includes  rites  that  are  concerned  with  all  the  main  occupa- 
tions of  the  people,  from  rice  cultivation  to  tool-making  and 
from  chanting  of  sacred  texts  to  devil  dance.  It  has  preserved 
also  the  customs  and  manners  of  the  royal  court  of  the  pre- 
Muslim  days.  The  Dharma  worship  had  little  to  do  with 
Buddhism  of  any  school  as  was  first  suggested  by  Haraprasad 
Shastri  and  accepted  by  others  implicitly.  Shastri’s  theory 
was  based  on  two  assumptions:  (i)  the  name  Dharma  came 
from  the  Buddhist  saddharma  (true  religion)  and  (ii)  the 
image  of  the  tortoise  is  a replica  of  the  Buddhist  stupa.  Both 
the  assumptions  have  been  proved  incorrect.  The  full  name 
of  Dharma  is  Dharmaraja,  and  it  is  a name  of  Yama  in 
brahmanical  and  Buddhistic  traditions. 

The  Middle  Bengali  poems  referring  to  Dharma 
worship  are  of  two  types.  One  type  comprises  treatises  des- 
cribing the  rituals  of  worship  and  incidentally  furnishing 
the  traditional  tales  connected  with  its  mythical  history,  and 
the  other  type  includes  the  narrative  poems  describing 
the  adventures  and  exploits  of  Lausen,  a legendary  hero 
favoured  by  Dharma. 

The  ritualistic  treatises  (known  as  Dharma-purdna  or 
Anika-purana,  or  even  as  Dharmamangal ) begin  with  the 
cosmogony  already  narrated.  The  cosmogony  section  is 
generally  called  Sunya-sastra  or  Sunya-purana  as  it  describes 
the  creation  of  the  universe  from  the  void  ( sunya ).  The 
second  section  narrates  the  activities  of  Dharma  in  search  of 
human  worshippers.  His  first  recruit  was  Sada  a Dom  who 
was  made  to  sacrifice  his  son  to  feed  Dharma.  (The  son  was 
of  course  resuscitated.)  The  next  man  to  worship  Dharma 
was  king  Hariscandra.5  His  priest  was  Ramai  Pandita. 


5 The  story  of  Hariscandra  closely  resembles  the  Hariscandra  Sunahsepa 
story  in  Aitareya-Brahmana.  There  is  little  doubt  that  the  two  stories  come 
from  the  same  ultimate  source. 


56 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


The  third  section  narrates  the  story  of  Ramai.  Ramai  was 
the  son  of  a brahman  sage  who  was  not  liked  by  his  asso- 
ciates. After  the  death  of  the  sage  his  associates  and  neigh- 
bours retaliated  by  declaring  Ramai  an  outcast.  Ramai  was 
refused  initiation  by  his  relatives  and  other  brahmans.  But 
Dharma  invested  him  with  the  more  sacred  copper  armlet. 
Still  the  brahmans  would  not  admit  him  into  their  society. 
As  a punishment  for  offending  his  protege  Dharma  caused 
Markandeya,  the  leader  of  the  opposition,  suffer  from  leuko- 
derma (or  leprosy).  Markandeya  was  forced  to  submit  to 
Ramai  who  was  then  acclaimed  as  the  high  priest  of  Dharma 
the  Sun-god.  The  third  and  final  section  contains  poems 
and  verses  used  in  the  elaborate  worship  of  Dharma  known 
as  ‘Gajan’  (from  garjana  ‘shout’)  inasmuch  as  the  initial 
ritual  was  a loud  supplication  to  Dharma  to  wake  up  from 
sleep  and  listen  to  their  appeal.6  The  whole  ritual  was 
properly  called  ‘Baramoti’  (from  dvaramuktika,  ‘opening  of 
the  door’),  as  if  Dharma  like  a king  would  open  his  door  and 
admit  the  suppliants  to  his  presence.  There  is  also  an  echo 
of  the  other  meaning  of  the  word  ‘bara’  here.  The  number 
twelve  has  special  significance  in  Dharma  worship:  the  sun- 
gods  ( Adityas ) are  twelve  in  number. 

The  exploits  of  Lausen  are  narrated  in  the  poems 
called  Dharmamarigal.  The  theme  is  of  the  nature  of  a 
series  of  connected  folk-tales  and  is  the  nearest  approach  to 
the  epic  type  in  Middle  Bengali.  In  content  and  structure 
there  is  much  old  material  even  though  the  oldest  of  the 
available  poems  does  not  go  further  back  than  the  middle 
of  the  seventeenth  century.  A recital  of  Dharmamarigal 
even  now  forms  part  of  the  annual  ceremony  of  Dharma 
worship  just  as  the  recital  of  Manasamahgal  and  Candi- 
mahgal  were  once  ritualistic  items  in  the  worship  of  Manasa 
and  Candi  respectively.  A common  feature  of  the  so-called 
‘Marigala’  poems  devoted  to  Manasa,  Candi  and  Dharma  is 


The  Buddhist  Tantric  ritual  of  ‘Vajradaka’  may  be  compared. 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  57 

that  the  climax  in  the  tale,  the  longest  and  most  exciting  of 
the  episodes,  was  sung  and  recited  in  a whole-night  sitting 
on  the  day  before  the  final  ritual,  and  as  such  this  section  of 
the  tale  was  known  as  ‘Jagarana’  (‘keeping  the  night’).  So 
says  Vrndavanadas : ‘Men  keep  awake  the  whole  night  in 
listening  to  the  song  of  MangalacandL’  The  story  of 
Dharmamangal  runs  as  follows. 

Karnasen  was  a vassal  of  the  king  of  Gaud  whose  capital 
wras  Ramati  (i.e.  Ramavatl  founded  by  Ramapala).  A local 
Goala  (i.e.  cowherd  caste)  chief  Somaghos  and  his  son  Ichai 
grew  strong  and  usurped  the  territory  of  Karnasen.  Karna- 
sen and  his  six  sons  supported  by  the  king’s  forces  tried  hard 
to  regain  the  territory.  But  favoured  by  his  family  deity 
Syamarupa  (i.e.  Candl)  Ichai  was  more  than  a match  for 
them.  Karnasen  lost  his  six  sons  and  was  finally  defeated. 
The  king  took  him  in  charge  and  married  his  young 
sister-in-law  to  him.  The  king’s  brother-in-law  Mahudya, 
who  was  also  the  king’s  chief  minister,  did  not  approve  of 
his  sister’s  marriage  with  an  old  man.  After  his  marriage 
Karnasen  and  his  young  wife  Ranjavati  went  away  far  South 
to  Mayanagarh  which  the  king  bestowed  on  them  as  dowry. 
Karnasen  was  too  old  to  beget  a son,  but  both  of  them 
hankered  after  one.  On  the  advice  of  her  old  nurse 
Ranjavati  went  through  a course  of  very  hard  penance  and 
thereby  propitiated  Dharma.  By  the  grace  of  Dharma 
Lausen  was  born  to  them.  Mahudya  did  not  like  the  birth 
of  a son  out  of  a marriage  not  approved  by  him.  His  attitude 
to  Lausen  was  like  that  of  Kamsa  to  his  nephew  Krsna. 
Mahudya  sent  down  thieves  to  kidnap  the  baby  but  they 
failed  ignominiously.  Dharma  rewarded  Ranjavati  with  a 
foster  child,  Karpuradhaval.  The  two  boys  grew  together 
like  Rama  and  Laksmana  or  like  Krsna  and  Balarama. 
When  Lausen  had  finished  his  school  lessons  and  had 
acquired  mastery  over  the  wrestler’s  and  the  fighter’s  art  he 
was  anxious  to  meet  the  king  of  Gaud  at  Ramati  and  show 
off  his  powers.  The  two  brothers  set  out  for  the  capital  city 


58 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


which  lay  in  almost  a straight  northerly  direction.  They 
had  their  first  adventure  at  Jalandar  (Jalandhara?)  Garh 
which  was  infested  by  a tiger  that  had  killed  the  ruler  and 
the  people  of  the  land.  Lausen  killed  the  tiger  and  brought 
back  the  land  to  its  old  prosperity.  At  their  next  halt 
Taradighi  Lausen  killed  a vicious  crocodile.  The  brothers, 
then  came  to  Jamati  which  was  a stronghold  of  the  Barui 
(betel-grower)  community.  A woman  made  improper 
advances  to  Lausen,  which  he  promptly  rejected.  The 
woman  belonged  to  an  influential  family.  She  contrived  to 
have  Lausen  arrested  for  making  love  to  her.  But  a protege 
of  Dharma  could  not  be  detained  for  long.  Lausen’s  next 
camp  was  at  Golahat  which  was  the  domain  of  a hetaera 
named  Suriksa.  A newcomer  to  the  place  must  face  a contest 
of  riddles  with  the  hetaera.  If  he  won  he  would  be  accepted 
as  her  lover  ; if  he  lost  he  would  remain  there  as  her  slave. 
Lausen  gave  the  right  answers  to  all  the  riddles  except  the 
last.  The  last  question  set  by  Suriksa  was  this: 

Kama-Candl  of  Kamarup  comes  to  Kamata. 

Say  what  part  of  the  body  contains  the  sap  of  a woman.. 

This  was  too  much  not  only  for  Lausen  but  for  Dharma 
and  the  other  gods  as  well.  The  correct  answer  to  the  riddle 
was  known  to  Candl  alone.  She  now  came  to  Lausen’s  aid 
and  supplied  this  correct  answer: 

It  is  neither  a beast  nor  a bird  but  an  embryo  in  an  egg. 
By  a mere  look  it  strikes  mortally,  but  it  has  neither 
hands  nor  feet.  It  observes  all  but  is  not  itself  seen.  It  is 
the  greatest  treasure  to  be  carefully  tended.  It  wears 
vermilion  paint  above  and  collyrium  below.  It  trembles 
like  a tear  drop.  Kama-Candl  of  Kamarup  comes  to* 
Kamata.  Leaving  aside  the  eight  limbs  thy  sap  is  in  the 
left  eye. 

Suriksa  admitted  defeat. 

Coming  to  Gaud,  Lausen  met  with  severe  opposition 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  59 


from  his  uncle.  In  spite  of  it  he  won  recognition  from  the 
king  and  returned  home  triumphant.  His  best  gain  was  the 
friendship  and  allegiance  of  Kalu  Dom  and  his  wife  Lakhya 
who  came  over  to  Mayanagarh  and  settled  there.  At  home 
Lausen  was  not  left  in  peace  for  long.  Mahudya  was 
devising  manifold  ways  of  quelling  his  nephew.  On  the 
minister’s  advice  the  young  man  was  sent  on  an  expedition 
to  Kamarup.  Lausen  defeated  the  king  of  Kamarup  and 
married  his  daughter  Kaliiiga.  On  his  way  back  home  he 
won  two  more  wives,  Princess  Amala  and  Princess  Bimala. 

After  a time  Lausen  was  commanded  to  go  to  the  court 
of  king  Haripal  and  demand  the  hand  of  his  accomplished 
daughter  Kanara  for  the  king  of  Gaud.  The  princess  was 
a protege  of  Candi.  To  prevent  an  undesirable  match  for 
her  devotee  the  goddess  had  given  a rhinoceros  made  of  iron 
and  stipulated  that  the  hand  of  Kanara  would  be  won  by 
him  who  would  succeed  in  smiting  off  the  head  of  the 
rhinoceros  with  a stroke  of  the  sword.  Kanara’s  nurse  and 
attendant  DhumasI  also  was  favoured  by  the  goddess.  Lausen 
achieved  the  feat  and  won  Kanara  for  himself.  In  due  course 
his  son  Citrasena  was  born. 

Lausen  was  then  commissioned  to  subjugate  his  father’s 
old  enemy  Somaghos  and  his  son  Ichai.  Ichai  was  a special 
favourite  of  Candi.  Through  this  struggle  the  Dharma 
worship  was  to  win  its  final  bout  against  Candi  worship. 
Ichai  was  killed  only  after  a very  hard  fight  with  Lausen. 
After  this  Lausen  was  called  to  save  Gaud  from  the  ravages 
of  a frightful  rainstorm  and  floods.  By  the  grace  of  Dharma 
Lausen  was  able  to  do  so.  Mahudya  then  contrived  his  worst 
trap  for  the  liquidation  of  his  nephew.  Lausen  was  now 
regarded  as  the  most  favoured  devotee  of  Dharma  the  Sun 
god,  and  on  pain  of  death  he  was  asked  to  make  a sunrise 
in  the  west.  If  he  failed  to  do  so  his  parents  who  were  held 
hostages  at  Gaud  would  be  put  to  death  and  his  property 
confiscated.  Accompanied  by  his  mother’s  old  nurse,  an 
ardent  devotee  of  Dharma,  Lausen  went  away  to  the  sacred 


60 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


seat  of  Dharma  worship  on  the  river  Balluka  and  performed 
austerities  for  a long  time.  In  the  meantime  taking 
advantage  of  the  absence  of  Lausen  and  his  parents  Mahudya 
attacked  Mayanagarh.  The  fort  was  manfully  defended  by 
Kalu  Dom  and  his  son.  But  they  were  soon  killed.  On  the 
death  of  Kalu  his  wife  Lakhya  came  out  to  fight,  and  when  she 
fell  queen  Kalinga  took  the  lead  of  the  defending  army.  But 
she  too  fell  fighting.  Then  Kanara  and  her  old  nurse  Dhumasi 
took  arms  and  defeated  Mahudya  and  his  invading  army. 

In  spite  of  the  prolonged  hard  penances  Lausen’s  prayer 
to  Dharma  for  a sunrise  in  the  west  remained  unanswered. 
The  old  nurse  Samula  at  last  asked  him  to  cut  off  his  own 
head  and  throw  it  into  the  sacrificial  fire  as  the  final  oblation 
to  Dharma.  Lausen  did  not  hesitate,  and  he  cut  off  his 
own  head  to  the  distress  of  all  beings  that  were  witnessing 
the  feat.7  Dharma  could  not  remain  unmoved  at  this  act 
of  supreme  self-sacrifice.  He  made  the  sun  rise  in  the  west. 
There  were  only  two  witnesses  to  this  miracle,  Samula  the 
old  nurse  and  Harihar  the  drummer.  Lausen  returned  to 
Ramati  but  Mahudya  refused  to  believe  him.  Being  a 
partisan  Samula  was  lightly  dismissed  as  an  unreliable 
witness.  He  tried  to  suborn  Harihar  but  in  vain.  Harihar 
testified  to  the  sunrise  in  the  west.  Lausen  was  vindicated 
but  Harihar  paid  for  truthfulness  by  his  life.  With  his 
parents  Lausen  returned  to  Mayanagarh  where  he  found 
that  most  of  his  people  had  been  killed  in  battle  with 
Mahudya.  But  by  the  grace  of  Dharma  they  were  all 
brought  back  to  life.  For  the  remaining  days  of  his  life 
Lausen  lived  in  peace. 


The  narrative  poems  on  the  goddess  Candi  (called  Candi- 
mangal ) contain  two  independent  stories.  The  first  story  is 
the  older.  It  originally  came  from  Kalinga  (North-east 

7 From  their  cry  of  grief  the  incident  was  known  as  ‘Hakanda’  (from 
Sanskrit  akranda),  and  this  climactic  episode  is  called  ‘Hakanda  pala’. 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  61 


Orissa)  where  the  goddess  was  a forest  deity  giving  protection 
to  forest  animals  and  was  worshipped  by  fowlers  and  hunters 
(the  Vyadha  tribes).  The  second  story  follows  the  usual 
pattern.  Its  hero  is  an  influential  merchant  and  he  and 
his  son  are  compelled  to  pay  homage  to  the  goddess  who 
apparently  had  not  yet  obtained  homage  from  the  upper 
classes  of  the  society.  In  the  second  story  the  goddess  appears 
as  the  guarding  deity  of  lost  animals  and  of  lost  men.  The 
first  story  has  retained,  more  or  less,  the  original  simple  form 
of  folklore.  The  structure  of  the  second  story  is  complex. 
In  its  older  and  simpler  form  it  was  a ‘Vrata-katha’.* * 8  One 
peculiar  feature  of  the  second  story  is  the  miraculous  sight, 
on  the  surface  of  the  open  sea,  of  a divine  girl  seated  on  a 
full  blown  lotus  and  alternately  devouring  and  belching  out 
a couple  of  elephants.9  This  sight  brought  disaster  to  the 
hero  and  his  son.  Merchants  were  devotees  of  Kamala 
(LaksmI)  who  was  generally  represented  as  a lady  seated  on 
a lotus  and  two  elephants  pouring  water  on  her.  The  sight 
which  Candl  made  them  see  was  definitely  unlucky  to  the 
merchant  community  as  the  totemistic  (?)  animals  were 
unfavourably  treated  and  the  protecting  deity  had  assumed 
an  antagonistic  mien. 

The  first  story  is  concerned  with  a very  humble  fowler 
family  to  whom  the  goddess  gave  wealth.  Kalaketu  lived 
by  killing  or  catching  game  in  the  wild  and  barren  land  of 
Kalinga.  His  young  wife  Phullara  sold  meat  and  animal 
skin  in  the  market  or  from  door  to  door  and  saw  to  her 
husband’s  meagre  comforts.  Kalaketu’s  ruthlessness  in 
killing  and  skill  in  stalking  game  struck  terror  in  the  heart 
of  the  wild  animals  of  Kalinga.  In  a body  they  approached 
their  mistress  Candl  who  granted  them  immunity  from  the 
net  and  the  missiles  of  Kalaketu.  Kalaketu  was  in  a pretty 
fix.  For  two  successive  days  he  could  not  catch  anything. 


8 A Vrata-katha  is  a short  narrative  recited  in  women’s  rites  held  at  home 

and  generally  without  the  assistance  of  a brahman  priest. 

8 This  miracle  is  known  as  'Kamale  KaminT’  (the  lady  on  the  lotus). 


62 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


not  even  a fly.  On  the  third  day  too  he  found  nothing  but 
as  he  was  returning  home  he  saw  a brown  iguana  which  he 
had  seen  in  the  morning  at  the  beginning  of  his  quest.  In 
desperation  he  caught  the  animal  and  brought  it  home.10 
Tying  it  to  a post  supporting  the  thatch  of  the  hut  Kalaketu 
went  in  search  of  his  wife  who  was  away  from  home.  When 
Kalaketu  had  left  the  goddess  who  had  taken  the  form  of 
the  iguana  assumed  the  form  of  a charming  young  lady. 
Phullara  had  gone  out  to  borrow  some  rice  from  a neighbour. 
Returning  home  she  was  very  much  surprised  to  find  a well- 
dressed  and  exceedingly  pretty  brahman  girl  seated  in  their 
hut.  On  questioning  she  learnt  that  the  girl  had  been 
brought  home  by  her  husband,  and  that  she  would  like  to 
stay  with  them.  By  this  time  Kalaketu  came  back.  Phullara 
first  fell  foul  of  her  husband  and  then  she  spoke  her  mind 
to  the  girl.  Verbal  assault  proving  ineffective  she  changed 
tactics  and  gave  the  latter  a minute  description  of  the  chronic 
poverty  of  her  home.  The  lady’s  obduracy  exasperated 
Kalaketu  too.  Now  the  goddess  was  thoroughly  satisfied  with 
the  honesty  and  integrity  of  the  poor  couple.  She  revealed 
her  real  self  to  them  and  asked  them  to  institute  her  worship. 
Before  departure  she  made  Kalaketu  a very  rich  man  by 
giving  him  a valuable  ring  and  a huge  stock  of  hidden  gold. 
With  that  money  Kalaketu  reclaimed  a portion  of  the  wild 
region  of  Kaliriga  and  founded  his  capital  town  of  Gujarat. 
Flood-stricken  people  from  the  east  and  south-east  came 
and  settled  in  this  newly  found  territory.  One  of  the  new- 
comers was  Bhamru  Datta,  a downright  rogue.  He  was 
caught  oppressing  the  poorer  sections  of  the  trades-people. 
Kalaketu  took  him  to  task.  The  result  was  that  Bhamru 
went  to  the  neighbouring  king  of  Kalinga  and  instigated 
him  to  march  against  Kalaketu.  The  king  of  Kalinga 


10  This  was  a desperate  act,  for  the  brown  iguana  was  apparently  the 
totem  of  the  tribe  to  which  Kalaketu  belonged.  Outside  the  temple  of 
Konarak  there  is  a figure  of  a warrior  holding  a shield  on  which  a couple 
of  iguanas  are  represented.  The  figure  faithfully  tallies  with  the  descrip- 
tion of  Kalaketu  in  Mukundaram’s  poem. 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  63 

attacked  Gujarat  and  Kalaketu  was  defeated  and  was  caught 
by  the  treachery  of  Bhamru.  At  the  last  moment  the  goddess 
intervened.  The  king  of  Kalinga  released  Kalaketu  and 
instituted  worship  of  Candi. 

Dhanapati  the  hero  of  the  second  story  was  a rich 
merchant  of  Ujani  (i.e.  UjjayinI).  He  had  no  issue  from  his 
wife  and  so  he  married  for  the  second  time  a young  and 
accomplished  girl  named  Khullana.  His  first  wife  Lahana 
was  not  a bad  lady  but  she  was  under  the  thumb  of  her  maid 
Durbala  who  did  not  like  a rival  to  her  mistress.  After  his 
second  marriage  Dhanapati  had  to  go  away  on  a trading 
voyage.  During  her  husband’s  absence  from  home  Khullana 
was  put  to  hardship  and  ignominy.  Lahana  on  the  advice  of 
Durbala  directed  her  co-wife  to  take  out  goats  to  graze  in  the 
wild  tracts  outside  the  township.  One  day  a goat  strayed 
from  the  herd  and  Khullana  thought  it  was  lost.  Thinking 
of  the  kind  of  reception  she  would  receive  on  return  home 
she  was  very  much  distressed.  The  goddess  Candi  now  took 
pity  on  her  and  sent  down  her  eight  attendants  (V idyadharT) 
who  instructed  Khullana  to  worship  the  goddess  by  invoking 
her  in  a water  pot  and  by  offering  eight  blades  of  grass  and 
eight  grains  of  paddy.  Khullana  worshipped  Candi  on  the 
spot  and  got  back  the  lost  animal.  When  the  merchant 
returned  home  all  was  well  for  the  time  being.  But  it  was 
not  long  when  the  merchant  came  to  know  that  his  young 
wife  had  been  herding  goat  during  his  absence  from  home. 
He  was  not  suspicious  of  Khullana’s  character  but  his 
community  would  not  allow  him  rest  until  Khullana 
demonstrated  her  chastity  by  undergoing  severe  tests  before 
a representative  assembly  of  the  community.  By  the  grace 
of  Candi  Khullana  passed  all  the  tests  with  glory. 

After  some  time  Dhanapati  again  went  away  on  a trading 
voyage  to  a port  in  Ceylon.  On  the  eve  of  his  departure  he 
found  his  wife  worshipping  Candi  for  his  safe  voyage  and 
return.  Dhanapati  was  a staunch  devotee  of  Siva.  He  was 
in  a rage  when  he  found  his  favourite  wife  offering  worship 


64 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


to  another  deity.  He  kicked  away  the  sacred  water  pot  (as 
did  Cando  in  the  Manasamahgal  story).  For  this  insolence 
Candi  determined  to  teach  him  a hard  lesson.  The  mer- 
chant’s voyage  was  smooth  for  a time.  But  as  he  was  nearing 
the  Ceylon  coast  the  goddess  made  him  see  the  miraculous 
scene  of  a girl  seated  on  a lotus  and  alternately  devouring  and 
belching  out  a couple  of  elephants.  This  sight  was  not 
visible  to  the  members  of  the  crew.  He  reached  the  port, 
made  a very  profitable  exchange  of  goods  and  was  received 
by  the  king.  From  this  time  his  luck  began  to  turn.  He 
mentioned  the  vision  of  the  elephant-devouring  girl  on  the 
sea  to  the  king  who  naturally  disbelieved  him.  On  his 
insistence  the  king  agreed  to  go  out  to  the  sea  to  see  it  for 
himself.  But  the  vision  was  not  repeated.  The  king  con- 
demned Dhanapati  to  imprisonment  for  life  as  a very 
foolish  liar. 

Khullana  was  carrying  when  Dhanapati  left  home.  In 
course  of  time  a son  was  born.  He  was  named  Sripati  (or 
Srimanta).  He  grew  up  to  be  a fine  lad.  But  as  he  was 
born  when  his  father  was  away  from  home  the  legitimacy 
of  his  birth  was  not  above  suspicion.  When  such  whispers, 
reached  the  ears  of  Sripati  he  started  on  a voyage  to  Ceylon 
in  search  of  his  father.  His  experiences  on  the  sea  were  the 
same  as  his  father’s  about  a score  of  years  ago.  Sripati  also 
was  unable  to  show  the  vision  to  the  king  and  was  condemned 
to  death.  When  he  was  about  to  be  executed  the  goddess 
appeared  in  the  guise  of  his  old  grandmother.  She  suppli- 
cated the  executioner  to  spare  the  life  of  her  grandson.  On 
refusal  she  brought  in  her  demon  army  and  they  routed  the 
king’s  guards.  The  king  was  threatened  by  the  goddess, 
and  he  was  forced  to  release  Sripati  and  his  father  and  marry 
his  daughter  to  the  merchant’s  son.  Dhanapati  and  his  son 
and  daughter-in-law  returned  home  with  the  boats  filled 
with  precious  merchandise.  He  was  no  longer  unwilling  to 
offer  worship  to  Candi. 

The  themes  of  the  narrative  poems  on  the  popular 


DARK  CENTURIES  AND  EMERGENCE  OF  CULT  THEMES  65 


deities,  outlined  above,  took  shape  during  the  dark  centuries. 
The  stories  indicate  the  struggle  and  triumph  of  one  cult 
(generally  the  new)  over  another  (generally  the  old).  In 
the  story  of  Manasa  the  cult  of  the  snake  goddess  appears  to 
be  pitted  against  that  of  Candi.  In  the  saga  of  Lausen  the 
protege  of  Dharma  triumphs  over  the  protege  of  Candi. 
In  the  second  story  of  the  Candimangal  poems  the  worship 
of  Candi  supercedes  that  of  Siva. 


The  Middle  Bengali  long  narrative  poems  are  named  after 
the  particular  deity  with  the  addition  of  either  of  the  words 
mangala  and  vijaya.  Mangala  indicates  the  ultimate  con- 
nexion of  the  theme  with  some  domestic  ritual  of  the  women- 
folk such  as  marriage  or  propitiation.  On  the  other  hand 
vijaya  points  to  the  basic  affinity  of  the  story  to  the  Purana 
type,  i.e.  to  Bhagavata  Purana  and  to  the  Mahabharata 
which  was  classed  as  Jaya.11  The  name  vijaya  is  therefore 
proper  to  the  poems  on  the  Krishna  legend  and  the  Maha- 
bharata  story,  and  these  were  not  cult  poems.  The  narrative 
poems  called  mangala  or  vijaya  belong  to  the  genre  of  Parted- 
lika  (or  Pamcdli)  poetry  mentioned  in  a previous  chapter. 

These  poems  are  the  productions  of  the  society.  This 
is  njore  true  of  the  cult  poems  than  of  -the  Purana  poems. 
It  means  that  the  forms  and  contents  of  the  poems  were 
determined  by  the  social  condition  and  modified  by  popular 
predilections.  Whether,  written  under  the  patronage  of  a 
ruler  or  not  the  poems  were  meant  for  the  masses  and 
enjoyed,  not  in  the  seclusion  of  an  exclusive  audience'but  by 
the  whole  community  assembled  to  take  part  in  a common 
worship  or  festivity  of  the  village  deity.  It  is  therefore  in- 
evitable that  the  characters  of  the  story  would  be  types  and 
that  a good  many  social  customs  and  observations  would  be 
embodied  in  it. 

11  Cf.  the  introductory  verse  appearing  in  all  Sanskrit  works  of  the. 
Purana  type  ( tato  jayarrt  udirayet). 

5 


6 


FROM  THE  FIFTEENTH  TO  THE  EARLY 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY 


The  most  popular  theme  of  narrative  poetry  that  was  univer- 
sally appreciated,  even  by  the  Muslims,  was  the  story  of  the 
Ramayana.  The  epic  tale  of  Rama  had  many  minor  varia- 
tions and  embellishment  in  the  different  regions  and  among 
the  different  religious  groups  in  India'  and  outside.  The  most 
important  departure  from  Valmiki’s  narration  appearing  in 
the  Middle  Bengali  versions  was  the  genesis  of  Sita  from  the 
seed  of  Ravana,  as  narrated  in  the  Sanskrit  Adbhuta- 
Ramayana.  The  treatment  of  the  story  was  always  from  a 
devotional  standpoint  inasmuch  as  Rama  worship  was  firmly 
established  in  Bengal  before  the  end  of  the  fifteenth  century. 
Some  of  the  leading  followers  of  Chaitanya  were  devotees  of 
Rama.  With  the  growth  of  Chaitanya’s  influence  Krishna 
worship  began  to  be  accepted  by  the  followers  of  the  Rama 
cult  until  by  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century  Rama  worship 
became  restricted  practically  to  the  outlying  regions  of  South- 
west Bengal  where  there  was  always  a steady  influx  of  the 
Rama-worshipping  men  from  the  West.  Nevertheless  the 
popularity  of  the  Middle  Bengali  narrative  poems  on  Rama 
chanted  and  sung  irr  the  traditional  style  never  lost  popularity 
among  the  massess.  It  is  true  that  the  Rama  story  cannot  be 
traced  back  to  an  old  Bengali  or  Laukika  version.  But  there 
cannot  be  any  doubt  of  its  popularity,  among  the  higher  classes 
who  preferred  to  hear  it  in  Sanskrit  (and  also  in  Prakrit). 
Sagara -Nandi,  a Bengali  dramaturgist  (ante  1400),  mentioned 
a large  number  of  Sanskrit  (and  Prakrit)  plays  written  appa- 
rently in  Bengal  and  in  its  neighbourhood.  Among  these  we 
find  several  pertaining  to  the  Rama  story.  From  a study  of 
the  titles  it  appears  that  the  Rama  story  was  no  less  popular 
than  the  Krishna  story  and  both  more  popular  than  the 
Pandava  story  and  other  Puranic  tales.  In  plastic  art  also 
the  Rama  story  maintained  its  popularity  equally  with  the 


FROM  FIFTEENTH  TO  EARLY  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY  67 


Krishna  story,  from  the  twelfth  century  and  earlier  right  up 
to  the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century  when  the  latest  of  the 
Bengali  type  of  brick  temples  were  built.  The  tomb  of 
Zafar  Khan  Ghazi  (late  thirteenth  century)  at  Satgaon 
(Saptagram)  which  was  built  on  the  remains  of  an  old  Hindu 
temple  of  stone  shows  some  inscriptions  on  black  basalt  which 
are  legends  describing  scenes  from  the  Ramayana,  Bhagavata, 
and  Mahabharata.  The  sculptures  were  all  scraped  clean, 
but  fortunately  for  us  some  of  the  inscriptions  were  spared 
before  the  slabs  were  used  to  build  the  tomb.  The  legends 
now  standing  are  as  follows : Sita’s  marriage  ; fall  of  Khara 
and  Trisiras  ; Rama  killing  Ravana  ; banishment  of  Sita  ; 
coronation  of  Rama ; Bharata  accepting  regency  ; fall  of 
Canura  ; fall  of  Kamsa  ; Krishna  fighting  Vana  ; and  fight 
between  Dhrstadyumna  and  Duhsasana. 

The  oldest  known  poet  of  the  Rama  legend  in  Bengali  is 
Krttivasa  Pandita,  a brahman  of  class  (‘Kullna’).  From  the 
autobiographical  account  found  in  a very  late  MS,  it  appears 
that  his  great-great-grandfather  Narasimha  came  from  East 
Bengal  and  settled  at  Phuliya  on  the  east  bank  of  the  Hooghly. 
Narasimha  was  a courtier  of  a king  Danuja.  Krttivasa  was 
the  eldest  of  six  brothers  and  a half-sister.  When  Krttivasa 
was  born  his  grandfather  Murari  was  making  preparations 
for  a religious  pilgrimage  to  South  India.  So  his  grandfather 
named  him  after  Siva,  the  predominant  deity  of  the  South. 
When  the  boy  completed  his  eleventh  year  he  was  sent  over 
to  North  Bengal  where  some  of  his  kinsmen  held  important 
posts  under  the  king.  After  finishing  his  education  he  sought 
an  interview  with  the  king  who  honoured  him  in  the  Indian 
way,  i.e.  by  the  offering  of  a garland,  some  sandal  water  and 
a silk  scarf.  He  returned  home  joyfully  and  in  good  time 
recounted  the  Rama  story  in  Bengali  verse.  From  the  very 
meagre  and  extremely  doubtful  data  culled  from  the  auto- 
biographical lines  showing  obviously  late  features  some 
scholars  are  inclined  to  put  Krttivasa’s  date  of  birth  in  1398. 
This  deduction  rests  on  two  hypotheses:  ( i ) Narasimha’s 


68 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


patron  king  Danuja  was  the  same  person  as  ‘Ray  Danuja’  of 
the  thirteenth  century  mentioned  in  Muslim  history,  and  (ii) 
Krttivasa  visited  the  court  of  king  Ganes  (Kans).  Against 
these  assumptions  there  are  serious  objections.  King  Ganes 
was  officially  (i.e.  on  his  coins)  known  as  Danujamardana,  and 
from  various  sources  it  is  known  that  this  Hindu  king  who 
occupied  the  throne  of  Bengal  for  some  time  used  to  help 
venerable  and  learned  brahmans  to  settle  on  the  banks  of  the 
Gariga.  A comparison  of  the  genealogical  table  given  in  the 
autobiographical  verses  of  Krttivasa  with  that  given  by  the 
famous  Vaishnav  philosopher  Jiva  Gosvamin  indicates  that 
the  patron  of  Narasimha  could  be  no  other  person  than 
Ganes-Danujamardana.  This  would  mean  that  Krttivasa 
belonged  to  the  second  half  of  the  fifteenth  century,  and  that 
he  had  come  to  the  court  of  a Pathan  sultan  who  may  well 
have  been  Ruknuddln  Barbak  Shah  or  Yusuf  Shah  or  even 
Husain  Shah.  Many  of  the  king’s  courtiers  mentioned  in  the 
autobiographical  account  of  Krttivasa  happened  to  be  the 
ministers  and  officials  in  the  court  of  Husain  Shah ; for 
instance  Kedara  Raya,  Narayana  and  Jagadananda  Raya.  One 
of  the  courtiers  mentioned  was  Kedara  Khan.  The  title 
‘Khan’  was  bestowed  on  Hindu  officials  in  Bengal  only  from 
the  middle  of  the  fifteenth  century  and  not  earlier. 

So  it  appears  that  there  is  no  way  of  definitely  fixing  the 
date  of  Krttivasa.  We  must  wait  for  new  material  or  new 
evidence.  In  the  meantime  a most  reasonable  view  would 
be  to  place  the  poet  vaguely  in  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth 
century. 

Krttivasa  may  not  have  been  the  first  writer  of 
Ramayana  poetry  in  Bengali.  But  his  has  been  undoubtedly 
the  most  acceptable.  The  penalty  of  its  popularity  has  been 
heavy.  As  the  days  wore  on  the  signature  of  the  poet  gathered 
more  and  more  importance  and  the  text  of  his  poem  less  and 
less.  The  singers  ( Gayana ) of  his  poem  consciously  or  un- 
consciously changed  the  language  to  suit  their  own  dialects, 
and  they  did  not  miss  any  opportunity  for  what  they  consi- 


FROM  FIFTEENTH  TO  EARLY  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY  69 


dered  as  improvement  on  the  text  by  the  addition  of  various 
short  tales  and  by  the  injection  of  popular  likes  and 
demands.  In  this  manner  much  of  the  obviously  late  Vaishnav 
traits  and  episodes  gradually  crept  into  the  poem  so  that  by 
the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century  it  retained  nothing  of  the 
original  except  the  name  of  the  poet  and  a few  sporadic 
couplets. 

The  manuscript  copies  of  the  Bengali  Rdmayana  bearing 
the  name  of  Krttivasa  are  numerous,  but  they  mostly  belong 
to  the  late  eighteenth  and  early  nineteenth  centuries  and 
none  is  older  than  the  end  of  the  seventeenth.  The  poem 
being  considered  a most  suitable  text  for  the  civil  servants 
of  East  India  Company  learning  the  language  of  the  province 
was  printed  at  the  Mission  Press  at  Serampore  in  1802.  The 
text  of  this  editio  princeps  is  really  better  than  most  of  the 
older  manuscripts  and  all  of  the  later  printed  editions. 

The  story  of  Rama  has  always  exerted  the  greatest  influ- 
ence in  the  formation  of  the  Indian  mind  and  morals.  In 
Bengal  it  has  been  achieved  by  the  efforts  of  many  poets  (and 
singers)  of  whom  Krttivasa  was  the  oldest  and  best. 


The  earliest  Bengali  narrative  poem  that  can  be  assigned 
to  a definite  date  is  also  the  oldest  poem  on  the  Krishna 
legend.  It  is  Srikrsnavijaya  (Triumph  of  Lord  Krishna)  by 
Maladhara  Vasu  who  was  conferred  the  sobriquet  of 
‘Gunaraja-Khan’  by  the  sultan  Ruknuddln  Barbak  Shah. 
The  poem  is  based  mainly  on  the  Bhagavata  and  Visnu 
Puranas.  It  took  seven  years  (1473-80)  to  complete  the  poem. 
Maladhara  was  a rich  Kayastha  hailing  from  Kullngram  in 
West  Bengal.  He  was  probably  a revenue  officer  of  the  state 
and  had  been  at  the  court  of  the  sultan  for  some  time.  The 
poem  is  entirely  narrative  and  there  are  no  lyric  effusions. 
But  the  devotional  spirit  and  sincerity  of  the  author  raises 
the  poem  above  mediocrity.  The  popularity  of  the  poem 
seems  to  have  been  instantaneous.  Chaitanya  in  his  early 


70 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


life  had  heard  the  poem  sung  frequently  and  so  he  was 
thoroughly  acquainted  with  it.  This  acquaintance  endeared 
the  poet’s  sons  to  Chaitanya  when  they  met  the  master  for  the 
first  time  at  Puri.  The  poem  was  written  for  the  masses  but 
its  tone  being  entirely  devotional  its  popularity  did  not 
extend  much  beyond  the  devoted  and  the  literate.  So  by  the 
end  of  the  seventeenth  century  it  was  partly  superseded  by 
poems  that  did  not  lack  in  popular  appeal. 

Maladhara  included  the  story  of  the  Ramayana  in  his 
Snkrsnavijaya.  This  part  of  the  poem  had  a special  vogue 
and  it  is  known  in  MSS  dating  from  the  seventeenth  century. 

A narrative  poem  on  Krishna  was  written  by  Yasoraj- 
Khan,  an  officer  of  the  sultan  Husain  Shah,  whose  real  name 
seems  to  have  been  Damodar  Sen.  No  manuscript  copy  of 
this  Krsnamarigal  poem  is  now1  available.  Its  existence  is 
known  from  a quotation  in  a late  seventeenth  century  work 
on  Vaishnav  rhetorics.  The  quotation  comprises  four  narra- 
tive verse  lines  and  a short  lyric  poem  describing  the  eager- 
ness of  a girl  of  Vraja  (probably  Radha)  for  a sight  of  Krishna 
as  he  was  returning  home  with  his  cattle  at  the  close  of  the 
day.  In  the  last  couplet  the  poet  has  put  his  signature  and 
has  mentioned  the  name  of  his  patron  Husain  Shah  the 
sultan.  It  may  be  taken  as  one  of  the  earliest  specimens  of 
Middle  Bengali  lyric  poetry  and  one  of  the  two  oldest  speci- 
mens of  Brajabuli  songs  (the  other  being  the  composition  of 
a court  poet  of  Dhanyamanikya  of  Tripura). 


The  most  remarkable  poem  on  the  Krishna  legend  how- 
ever is  ‘Badu’  CandTdas’s  work  which  is  known  in  a single 
and  slightly  mutilated  manuscript  copy  edited  by  its 
discoverer  Basantaranjan  Ray  and  published  by  Vatigiya 
Sahitya  Parisad  (1916).  The  manuscript  does  not  show  a 
title,  but  the  editor  supplied  one,  and  it  is  known  as 
Srikrsnakirttana.  The  poem  is  remarkable  in  more  than  one 
respect.  The  manuscript  shows  a very  archaic  hand  though 


FROM  FIFTEENTH  TO  EARLY  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY  71 


not  uniformly  ; the  language  presents  an  old  form  of  Middle 
Bengali  ; the  structure  of  the  poem  is  quite  unlike  the  usual 
narrative  type  ; the  tone  of  the  poem  is  entirely  secular,  often 
verging  on  vulgarity.  The  more  important  episodes  are  not 
found  in  the  known  Purana  works.  On  the  evidence  of  the 
old  style  of  writing  the  manuscript  is  generally  assigned  to 
the  fifteenth  century.  But  it  also  shows  a very  late  hand, 
sometimes  in  the  same  folio  with  the  old  hand.  This  late 
style  of  the  script  as  well  as  the  paper  and  the  ink  used  points 
to  a date  which  may  be  as  late  as  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth 
century.  Some  scholars  would  put  their  faith  on  the 
language  and  date  the  poem  in  the  early  fifteenth  century. 
But  this  deduction  also  is  hardly  justifiable.  The  language 
though  fairly  old  definitely  shows  some  late  tendencies  in 
sound  change  and  in  grammar.  Besides,  there  are  some 
naturalized  Persian  and  Arabic  words  and  even  a hybrid 
word  showing  a Persian  base  and  a Bengali  affix.  On  the 
whole  it  may  be  agreed  that  the  language  of  Srikrsnakirttana 
roughly  dates  in  the  sixteenth  century.  But  the  work 
originally  may  be  older. 

The  manuscript  is  mutilated  at  both  ends  and  a few  folios 
are  missing  in  the  middle.  The  only  thing  that  can  be 
gathered  about  the  poet  is  his  name  Candidas  and  his 
occupation  ‘Badu’  (i.e.  a brahman  menial  in  a temple).  We 
also  know  that  he  was  a subordinate  priest  or  a temple 
attendant  (‘gana’,  ‘gati’)  of  the  goddess  Basalt  (an  older 
form  of  Kali).  Where  this  temple  of  Basall  wras  we  do  not 
know.  Both  the  south-west  (Chatna  in  Bankura)  and  the 
north-west  (Nanur  in  Birbhum)  region  claim  him,  and  both 
claims  have  points  in  their  favour.  In  form  and  technique 
Srikrsnakirttana  differs  from  all  other  narrative  poems  on 
the  story  of  Krishna.  The  purely  narrative  element  is  absent. 
The  story  is  carried  entirely  through  songs  by  the  three 
characters,  and  the  songs  are  generally  connected  by  single  or 
double  verses  in  Sanskrit,  somewhat  in  the  manner  of 
Jayadeva’s  Gitagovinda.  Such  narrative  or  dramatic  poems 


72 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


comprising  entirely  of  dialogues  between  two  or  three  persons 
were  known  as  ‘Vagvenl’  or  ‘Vak-kelf  in  high  (i.e.  Sanskrit 
and  Prakrit)  literature  and  as  ‘Jhumura’  in  low  (i.e. 
vernacular)  literature.  Some  of  these  connecting  verses  in 
Sanskrit  are  rather  good,  and  it  can  be  surmised  that  the 
poet  possessed  some  skill  in  Sanskrit  versification. 

The  tone  of  the  poem  is  human  and  not  devotional.  In 
the  treatment  of  the  theme  the  traditional  amorous  motifs 
have  been  fully  stressed  as  in  the  songs  of  Jayadeva.  (As  a 
matter  of  fact  ‘Badu’  Candidas  has  paraphrased  two  of 
Jayadeva’s  songs.)  To  our  poet  Krsna  and  Radha  were  not 
merely  figures  taken  out  of  myths  or  from  the  pages  of  the 
Puranas  ; nor  were  they  simply  symbols  of  devotional 
effusion.  They  are  described  as  a pair  of  common  human 
lovers  rather  crude  and  unsophisticated.  Radha  first  appears 
as  a very  young  girl  hardly  in  her  teens,  wedded  to  a relative 
of  Krishna,  and  the  latter  is  a turbulent,  precocious  and 
churly  cowherd  boy. 

Krishna  one  day  noticed  the  budding  youthful  charms  of 
Radha  and  at  once  fell  in  love.  He  secured  the  offices  of 
Radha’s  great-aunt  Baclai  (old  grandmother)  for  pleading  his 
suit.  Badai  approached  Radha  with  the  usual  presents  from 
Krsna.  Radha  was  very  much  offended  and  she  turned  out 
the  old  lady  for  the  improper  proposal.  Badai  returned  with 
more  presents  and  put  forward  the  additional  argument  that 
Krishna  was  an  avatar  of  Vishnu  and  as  such  there  would  be 
no  question  of  impropriety  or  sin  in  making  love  to  him. 
This  time  also  Badai  met  with  strong  resistance.  She  took 
Radha’s  refusal  as  a personal  offence  and  determined  to 
break  down  her  stiffness.  On  her  advice  Krishna  now  played 
the  aggressive  role  of  a road  tax-collector  and  demanded  a 
heavy  sum  from  Radha  when  she  and  her  friends  were  going 
to  Mathura  to  sell  milk  commodities.  Naturally  she  could 
not  pay  and  Krishna  demanded  love  from  her  as  an  alter- 
native. A heated  argument  followed.  In  the  meantime 
Badai  came  up  and  took  the  side  of  Krishna.  Before  the 


FROM  FIFTEENTH  TO  EARLY  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY  73 


joint  front  Radha  broke  down  and  tearfully  she  complained 
to  her  great-aunt  but  to  no  effect.  But  how  long  could  an 
inexperienced  and  immature  girl  resist  the  combined  attacks 
of  a lustful  and  aggressive  young  man  and  a wily  old  woman? 
Willy  nilly  she  had  to  submit  to  Krishna,  and  the  curtain 
drops  on  the  biggest  and  the  best  dramatic  episode  of  the 
‘tax  collection’  (‘Dana-Khanda’). 

Krishna  did  possess  Radha’s  body  but  he  could  not 
awaken  her  love.  She  now  took  good  care  not  to  meet  him 
alone.  She  and  her  friends  gave  up  going  by  the  main  road 
to  Mathura  and  took  a detour  along  the  water  front  of  the 
Yamuna.  Krishna  was  baffled  for  a time.  Then  he  again 
sought  Badai’s  advice  and  acting  on  it  he  turned  out  as  a 
ferryman  on  the  river.  Radha  got  into  his  boat.  When  the 
boat  was  at  some  distance  from  the  river  bank  Krishna 
foundered  it  deliberately.  For  fear  of  her  life  Radha  clung 
to  Krishna  and  the  latter  achieved  his  end.  They  swam 
back  to  the  bank.  Here  ends  the  episodes  of  the  ‘ferry’ 
(‘Nauka-Khanda’). 

Radha’s  mother-in-law  now  had  some  reason  to  be 
suspicious  and  she  did  not  allow  her  daughter-in-law  to  go 
out.  Krishna  was  again  obliged  to  seek  Badai’s  aid.  Badai 
saw  Radha’s  mother-in-law  and  took  her  to  task  for  upsetting 
the  economy  of  the  household  by  not  letting  her  daughter- 
in-law  go  out  to  the  market  at  Mathura.  Badai  assured  her 
that  Radha  need  not  be  now  afraid  of  a hazardous  ferry  for 
it  being  then  autumn  one  could  easily  take  the  tow  path 
along  the  river.  Radha  was  allowed  to  go  out  as  before. 
This  time  Krishna  approached  her  as  a porter  and  was 
engaged  by  Raclha  to  carry  her  commodities  to  Mathura. 
He  was  promised  satisfactory  remuneration  on  way  back 
home.  Before  he  could  press  for  his  hire  Krishna  was  made 
to  hold  a sunshade  over  Radha’s  head  for  the  entire  way 
back.  These  are  the  episodes  concerning  the  ‘load’  and  the 
“umbrella’  (‘Bhar-Khanda’  and  ‘Chatra-Khanda’). 

Krishna  now  began  to  pay  some  attention  to  the  girl 


74 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


friends  of  Radha,  who  are  never  mentioned  individually.  He 
had  raised  a nice  woodland  park  and  named  it  Vrndavana. 
He  asked  Badai  to  invite  Radha  and  her  friends  to  come 
over  and  relax  in  his  park.  The  girls  came.  Krishna  was 
paying  equal  attention  to  each  of  them  which  Radha  did  not 
like,  and  when  he  made  advances  to  her  he  was  rebuffed. 
Krishna  at  once  changed  his  tone  and  accused  Radha  for 
plucking  flowers  and  injuring  his  precious  plantation.  For 
the  first  time  Radha  was  put  on  the  defensive.  She  changed 
her  attitude  and  pleaded  guilty  of  bad  temper  in  this  way: 

‘A  girl  is  jealous  by  nature  but  a true  lover  does  not 
take  it  seriously.  By  this  your  talk  all  my  bitterness  is 
removed.  This  is  my  constant  request  at  your  feet  that 
you  must  not  allow  another  girl  to  stand  between  us. 
The  two  hearts,  yours  and  mine,  the  god  of  love  has 
joined  together.  This  is  tested  at  Vrndavana.  I will 
never  more  be  contrary  to  your  word.  God  arranged 
this  love  between  you  and  me : we  have  the  same  heart 
beating  in  the  same  body.  Such  love  does  not  tolerate 
a third  party,  and  that  is  not  my  fault.  Who  can  finish 
counting  your  excellences?  They  are  struck  firmly  in 
my  heart,  one  by  one.  Now  do  come  and  sit  by  me.’' 
So  sang  Badu  Candidas. 

The  episode  of  the  Vrndavana  park  ends  in  the  lovers” 
happy  union. 

The  next  episode  is  the  Puranic  story  of  quelling  the 
serpent  Kaliya  (‘Kaliya-damana  Khanda’)  infesting  a pool  in 
the  Yamuna.  Next  comes  the  episode  of  the  pool  of  the 
river  (‘Yamuna-Khanda’).  Krishna  treated  the  pool  as  his 
own  reserve.  He  would  allow  only  Radha  and  her  friends 
to  fetch  water  from  it  but  on  his  own  terms.  After  a good 
deal  of  parley  Radha  agreed.  Krsna  enjoyed  a good  water 
sport  with  Radha  and  the  other  cowherd  girls.  This  is  the 
Puranic  episode  of  ‘robe-stealing’  (‘Vastraharana-Khanda’). 
During  the  water  sports  Krishna  had  stolen  Radha’s 


FROM  FIFTEENTH  TO  EARLY  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY  75 


necklace.  She  complained  to  his  mother  Yasoda.  Krishna 
was  severely  rebuked.  As  a retaliation  he  directed  the 
deadly  dart  of  the  god  of  love  against  Radha  and  she  fell 
down  in  a faint.  Badai  now  charged  him  with  woman- 
slaughter  and  had  him  kept  confined.  Krishna  pleaded  for 
immediate  release  as  such  a plight  was  too  shameful  for  him, 
and  Badai  was  persuaded  to  set  him  free.  Krishna  was 
terrified  and  genuinely  sorry  for  Radha.  He  bemoaned 
remorsefully  over  the  prostrate  form  of  the  unfortunate  girl. 
Ultimately  Radha  regained  consciousness  and  the  contrite 
lover  made  proper  amends.  Here  ends  the  episode  of  the 
‘arrow’  (‘Bana-Khanda’). 

After  a time  Radha  became  indifferent  to  Krishna.  The 
latter  tried  in  vain  to  draw  her  attention  to  himself  in  various 
ways  whenever  they  met  on  the  way  to  the  river.  At  last 
he  built  a nice  bamboo  flute  and  began  to  play  charming 
notes.  Radha  heard  the  notes  and  lost  all  control  over 
herself  ; she  was  all  agog  to  meet  her  lover.  But  Krishna  took 
up  an  attitude  of  indifference  and  kept  away  from  her. 
Radha  entreated  Badai  to  bring  Krishna  to  her.  Badai  at 
first  pleaded  her  old  age  and  consequent  inability  to  make 
uncertain  journeys  and  then  appealed  to  the  girl’s  family 
prestige  and  good  sense.  But  Radha  was  far  gone,  and  she 
now  cared  little  for  anything  else  ; her  love  was  now  all- 
engrossing  and  all-consuming.  Badai  then  contrived  to  have 
Krishna’s  flute  stolen  by  Radha.  Radha  was  now  in  a position 
to  dictate  her  own  terms  to  Krishna,  who  submitted  with  bad 
grace  well  concealed.  This  is  the  story  of  the  ‘flute’  episode 
(‘V  amsi-Khanda’). 

Krishna’s  love  for  Radha  was  fast  ebbing  out  and 
Radha’s  love  for  Krishna  was  surging  up.  Krishna  kept 
himself  deliberately  away  from  Radha  as  he  was  now  thinking 
of  leaving  the  place  for  good.  Radha  urged  Badai  to  do  her 
best  to  bring  back  her  truant  lover.  Badai  put  in  all  kinds 
of  excuses  but  finally  she  had  to  make  her  best  attempts  to 
find  Krishna.  After  a time  she  was  successful  and  the  lovers 


76 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


met  once  again  at  Vrndavan.  Radha  humbled  herself  before 
her  lover  and  she  pleaded  her  guilt  in  going  against  her 
lover’s  wishes  at  the  early  stage  of  their  affair.  Krishna  was 
surly,  complaining  and  vague.  He  said  that  he  had  reformed 
and  had  taken  to  Yoga  practices.  As  an  avatar  he  had  now 
to  do  his  work  which  would  take  him  away  to  Mathura  and 
elsewhere.  A love  affair  like  this  was  not  good  for  her 
reputation,  and  she  must  now  try  to  forget  him.  Radha 
made  a piteous  appeal. 

‘If  you  have  become  a Yogi  man  discarding  all  and 

sundry  I would  become  a Yogi  woman  and  stay  with 

you  as  an  attendant.’ 

Finding  it  difficult  'to  extricate  himself  from  the  tangles 
Krishna  pretended  to  relent  and  made  a show  of  making  love 
to  her.  Presently  the  girl  felt  sleepy  and  stretched  herself 
on  the  ground  making  a pillow  of  her  lover’s  lap.  Soon  she 
was  sleeping  soundly  and  Krishna  gingerly  placed  the  girl’s 
head  on  the  ground  and  went  away  for  good. 

The  quest  for  the  vanished  lover  was  again  resumed  by 
Badai  but  to  no  effect.  Days  and  months  passed.  Radha 
pined  for  her  runaway  lover.  Her  pitiful  appeal  sped 
Badai  to  Mathura  where  she  managed  to  meet  Krishna.  But 
he  flatly  refused  to  come  back  as  he  had  not  yet  fully  forgiven 
Radha  for  her  past  behaviour.  Besides  his  immediate 
business  was  to  bring  about  the  downfall  of  Kamsa.  Here 
the  story  comes  to  an  abrupt  end  as  the  remaining  folia  of 
the  manuscript  are  missing.  This,  the  biggest  episode,  is 
named  ‘Radha-Viraha’  (‘suffering  of  Radha  in  separation  from 
her  lover’).  The  tone  of  the  songs  in  this  section  is  in 
assonance  with  the  strain  of  the  later  lyrics  on  the  topic.  At 
least  a few  songs  from  this  section  retained  their  popularity 
to  the  eighteenth  century. 

Badu  Candidas’s  poem  is  the  nearest  approach  to 
dramatic  poetry  in  Middle  Bengali  literature.  Only  three 
characters  are  there  and  they  are  readymade,  so  to  say.  But 


FROM  FIFTEENTH  TO  EARLY  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY  77 


our  poet  moulded  these  characters  handed  down  by  tradition 
into  creatures  of  flesh  and  blood.  Krishna  is  crudely  and 
rudely  human  ; in  spite  of  his  occasional  reminders  to  Radha 
and  Badai  no  one  would  take  his  divinity  seriously.  He  is  a 
full-blooded  young  man  out  to  enjoy  himself  and  fearing  no 
consequences.  In  the  delineation  of  Radha’s  character  the 
poet  has  shown  greater  acumen  ; he  has  cleverly  revealed  the 
normal  stages  through  which  the  mind  of  an  inexperienced 
adolescent  girl  reaches  maturity.  Unlike  the  other  two 
characters,  Badai  is  not  a Puranic  figure.  She  is  based  on 
a popular  type  well  known  in  current  literature,1  the  main 
purpose  of  which  was  to  make  the  audience  laugh,  but  our 
Badai  is  never  merely  a droll  figure  nor  always  a bad  old 
lady.  Whatever  she  might  have  been  when  the  story  opened, 
we  certainly  feel  that  she  meant  well  by  both  lovers  and  that 
she  had  a complete  change  of  heart  before  the  drop  falls. 
She  was  genuinely  worried  for  Radha  when  she  was  left  in 
the  lurch  by  her  lover. 

The  style  and  diction  of  the  poem  is  agreeable  and  the 
lyric  effect  is  heightened  by  the  dramatic  movement.  The 
songs  are  all  written  in  Bengali  and  none  in  Brajabuli 
but  the  traces  of  the  latter  are  however  to  be  found  in  a few 
isolated  forms. 


Chaitanya  was  partial  to  the  songs  on  the  Krishna  topics, 
and  he  liked  especially  the  songs  of  Jayadeva,  Vidyapati  and 
Candidas,  as  all  his  old  biographers  testify.  That  was  how 
the  name  of  Candidas  received  a special  significance  and 
came  to  be  invariably  associated  with  the  names  of  the  other 
two  poets.  There  are  a number  of  stories  regarding 
Candidas’s  love  and  companionship  with  a low-caste  woman 
(named  variously  as  Tara,  Ramatara  or  Rami).  But  its 


1 In  JvotirTsvara’s  Varnanaratnakara  there  is  a short  description  of  a 
procuress  (kuttinl)  which  is  a faithful  portrait  of  Badu’  Candidas’s  Badai. 
She  also  appears  in  a lyric  song  of  Vidyapati. 


78 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


tradition  however  does  not  take  us  beyond  the  middle  of 
the  seventeenth  century.  The  story  of  Candidas’s  infatua- 
tion is  as  much  trustworthy  as  the  story  of  Vidyapati’s  love 
affair  with  the  queen  Lachima.  The  story  probably  grew 
on  the  fact  that  Candidas  was  a worshipper  of  the  Tantric 
goddess  Basuli.  The  attendant  yoginis  of  Basuli  were  known 
as  Nitya  (Neta  in  vernacular).  A Neta  was  also  the  washer- 
woman of  the  gods  as  we  have  seen  in  the  story  of  Behula. 
Thus  a washerwoman  was  finally  evolved  as  Candidas’s 
companion  in  faith  and  love,  as  the  opening  line  of  a very 
late  poem  written  by  a Vaishnav  Tantrist  indicates: 

By  the  command  of  Basuli  Nitya  proceeded  to  reveal 

the  secret  of  the  doctrine  (‘Sahaja’)  to  him  (i.e. 

Candidas). 

When  Candidas’s  reputation  became  well  established 
his  name  began,  as  days  went  on,  to  pool  in  poems  and  songs 
of  forgotten  and  half-forgotten  as  well  as  of  well-known  poets 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  Brajabuli  songs  were  collected 
in  the  name  of  Vidyapati.  The  eighteenth  and  nineteenth 
century  anthologists  collected  a large  number  of  songs  bearing 
the  signature  (‘Bhanita’)  of  Candidas.  None  of  these  with  the 
exception  of  a few,  can  be  assigned  to  Badu  Candidas,  and  the 
best  songs  in  the  older  manuscripts  and  texts  bear  the  names 
of  some  of  the  best  known  Vaishnav  poets  of  the  sixteenth 
century.  The  remainder  is  large  but  they  generally  do  not 
possess  much  literary  value.  There  have  been  other  poets  by 
the  name  of  Candidas  or  subscribing  as  such.  But  with  the 
exception  of  a very  inferior  writer  who  wrote  much,  their 
existence  cannot  be  established  beyond  doubt.  One  of  these 
hypothetical  Candidases  is  referred  to  as  ‘Dvija’  Candidas. 
A very  limited  number  of  songs,  however,  may  be  ascribed 
to  the  old  poet  with  tolerable  assurance.  There  are  also 
quite  a number  of  mystic  songs  carrying  the  signature  of 
Candidas.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  some  of  these  were  written 
by  him  as  we  know  from  Srikrsnakirttana  that  the  path  of 


FROM  FIFTEENTH  TO  EARLY  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY  79 

Yoga  was  not  unknown  to  him.  But  the  songs  as  we  find 
them  are  saturated  with  the  late  Vaishnav  doctrines  and 
sprinkled  with  foreign  words  and  late  phrases.  W e also  know 
that  some  of  the  leading  Vaishnav  poets  of  the  sixteenth 
century  wrote  a few  such  mystic  lyrics  (known  among 
Vaishnavs  as  ‘Ragatmika  PadavalT’  (songs  pertaining  to 
devotional  love). 


The  oldest  known  as  well  as  the  completest  homogeneous 
narrative  poem  on  a non-Puranic  theme  is  Manasavijaya  b\ 
Vipradas,  a brahman  belonging  to  a place  not  very  distant 
from  the  west  bank  of  the  Hooghly.  In  the  opening  part  of 
the  poem  Vipradas  gives  a meagre  account  of  himself  and 
his  family.  Then  he  proceeds  to  the  occasion  and  date  (1495) 
of  his  writing  the  poem : 

On  the  tenth  night  of  the  bright  fortnight  in  the 
month  of  Vaisakha  the  goddess  came  and  sat  by  my 
pillow  and  gave  me  direction.  She  commanded  me  to 
write  a Pancali  poem  on  her.  That  is  my  wherewithal  : 
I know  nothing  much.  I proffer  my  apologies  to  poets, 
to  masters  and  to  the  knowledgeable  folk,  and  I write 
the  song  on  the  goddess  in  accordance  with  the  ordinance 
(of  her  worship).  In  the  Saka  year  enumerated  by  the 
seas  (7),  the  moon  (1),  the  Vedas  (4)  and  the  earth  (l)2 
when  King  Husain  Shah  is  the  lord  of  Gaud. 

The  manuscript  copies  of  the  text  are  rather  late,  and 
the  poem  being  popular  some  interpolations  have  crept  in. 
But  they  are  of  minor  nature  and  are  easily  detectable.  The 
story  of  the  goddess  Manasa  is  here  presented  to  us  in  a form 
that  is  really  old  and  not  appearing  in  other  and  later  works 
of  the  genre.  The  style  is  simple  and  direct,  and  the  story 
interest  never  flags. 

2 Reading  the  digits  from  the  right  to  the  left  the  line  gives  the  Saka 
year  1417  =a.d.  1495-96. 


80 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Another  poem  on  the  same  goddess  is  generally  believed 
to  have  been  written  in  the  last  decade  of  the  fifteenth 
century.  It  is  Vijay  Gupta’s  Manasamahgal.  But  there  is 
no  manuscript  material  available  in  support  of  the  presumed 
date  1416  Saka  (a.d.  1494).  The  text  is  published  in  several 
editions,  each  showing  successive  emendations  by  the  editors. 
It  bears  the  signatures  of  many  poets  and  singers.  The 
language  of  course  is  very  modern.  But  some  of  the  episodes 
point  to  an  old  source.  The  poet  belonged  to  the  lower 
East  Bengal  (Barisal). 

Since  at  least  the  days  of  the  last  Pala  kings  recital  of  the 
Mahabharata  had  been  a custom  at  the  courts  of  kings  and 
feudal  chiefs.  After  the  darkness  of  centuries  we  catch  a 
glimpse  of  the  continuation  of  this  custom  in  the  shadow 
court  of  a provincial  satrap  under  Husain  Shah.  In  the 
meantime  Kayasthas,  and  not  brahmans  specifically  as  in  the 
recital  of  the  Ramayana,  had  become  almost  professional 
readers  of  the  Mahabharata.  In  Middle  Bengali  literature 
the  authors  of  the  narrative  poems  based  on  the  Mahabharata 
were  almost  exclusively  Kayastha  by  caste.  It  may  be  remem- 
bered in  this  connexion  that  Maladhara  Vasu  the  author 
of  Srikrsnavijay  was  a Kayastha. 

The  oldest  known  poet  to  write  a Bengali  Mahabharata 
was  Paramesvar  Das  entitled  ‘Kavindra’  (Master  Poet).  He 
was  the  court  poet  of  Paragal  Khan,  a general  (‘laskar’)  of 
Husain  Shah  and  governor  of  Chittagong.  At  the  request  of 
his  patron  who  was  never  tired  of  listening  to  the  story  of 
the  conflict  between  the  Kurus  and  the  Pandavas  the  poet 
rendered  the  epic  story  in  Bengali  verse.  The  poem,  known 
in  manuscripts  going  back, to  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth 
century,  treated  the  theme  briefly.  The  work  was  evidently 
popular  as  manuscripts  have  been  recovered  from  all  parts 
of  the  country. 

Paragal’s  son  Nasrat  Khan,  known  from  his  father’s  life- 


FROM  THE  FIFTEENTH  TO  EARLY  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY  81 


time  as  the  ‘Junior  Khan’  (‘Chuti  Khan’),  shared  his  father's 
partiality  for  the  epic  story.  Nasrat  too  was  an  army 
commander.  His  success  in  the  expedition  to  Tipperah  won 
high  favour  from  Husain  Shah.  Not  satisfied  with  the  short 
version  of  the  Asvamedha  section  in  Paramesvar’s  poem  he 
had  the  more  varied  version  as  occurring  in  Jaiminiya- 
Samhita  rendered  into  Bengali  verse  by  his  own  court  poet 
Ankara  Nandi.  So  says  the  poet  in  the  beginning  of  his 
tale: 

In  the  court  attended  largely  by  pundits  the  high- 
souled  Khan  was  one  day  seated  surrounded  by  his 
friends.  He  was  listening  to  the  tale  of  Mahabharata, 
the  stories  of  the  Purana  text  compiled  by  the  great  sage 
Jaimini.  The  episode  of  the  Horse  Sacrifice  pleased 
him  ; and  the  Khan  addressed  the  assembly : ‘We  have 
heard  the  A lahabharata  story  narrated  by  Vyasa  ; better 
still  is  the  story  told  by  the  sage  Jaimini.  The  Sanskrit 
text  of  the  epic  is  not  understood  by  all.  So  listen, 
you  poets,  to  this  my  request.  By  being  narrated  in  the 
local  speech  let  the  story  proclaim  my  name  throughout 
the  land.’  Placing  on  head  this  his  request  as  a chaplet 
Srlkara  Nandi  speaks  out,  composing  this  Pancali  poem. 

It  appears  that  both  Paragal  and  his  son  Nasrat  could 
follow  a recital  of  the  Sanskrit  text  of  Mahabharata. 


6 


/ 

CHAITANYA  AND  HIS  MOVEMENT 

Northern  India  in  the  fifteenth  century  experienced  a vital 
outburst  of  the  devotional  discipline  known  as  the  Bhakti 
movement.  Its  earlier  sources  were  three-fold: 

( i ) Vasudeva-Krishna  worship  dating  from  the  pre- 
Christian  centuries  ; (ii)  Gopa-Krishna  worship  based  on  the 
Vedic  tradition  of  Vishnu  the  lord  of  the  spring  of  honey 
and  cattle  around  ; and  (iii)  Lokanatha  worship  of  Bengal 
Buddhism  which  laid  particular  emphasis  on  all-round 
non-violence  and  compassion  for  living  beings  and  on  the 
attitude  of  perfect  surrender  to  divine  dispensation.  These 
three  streams  of  the  Bhakti  discipline  came  together  in 
the  dark  centuries  and  resulted  in  an  overflow  sub- 
sequently. Sufi  mysticism  also  contributed  materially  to  its 
development. 

There  were  two  distinct  currents  in  the  spread  of  devo- 
tionalism  in  the  fifteenth  century,  the  fountain-heads  of  which 
were  the  two  masters  Ramananda  Swam!  and  Madhavendra 
Puri.  Ramananda’s  activities  centred  in  Banaras.  His 
doctrine  was  based  on  Advaita  (Non-duality  between  the 
Creator  and  the  created)  philosophy,  and  he  did  not  fully 
approve  of  the  orthodox  system  of  caste  that  admitted  only 
the  brahmans  to  the  shastric  path  of  devotional  practice 
and  spiritual  emancipation.  Ramananda’s  disciples  included 
men  from  the  lower  castes  and  outcastes.  ‘Rama’  was  the 
name  that  he  and  his  followers  generally  employed  for  the 
.attributeless  godhead  ( nirguna  brahman). 

It  was  perhaps  the  Sufis  of  Sindh  and  the  Panjab 
(including  Delhi)  who  made  the  vernacular  the  vehicle  of 
the  poetic  outburst  of  their  spiritual  yearnings.  Ramananda 
and  his  disciples  followed  them.  The  master  was  a good 
Sanskrit  scholar  no  doubt,  but  his  appeal  was  to  the  masses, 
and  so  he  could  not  ignore  the  vernacular  speech  in  his  lyric 
compositions  meant  for  them.  Kabir,  the  best  of  his 


CHAITANYA  AND  HIS  MOVEMENT 


83 


disciples,  was  probably  born  a Muslim  and  he  belonged  to 
the  weaver  class.  In  some  of  the  songs  and  verses  of  Kabir 
the  spirit  of  Bhakti  has  been  often  served  in  the  old  cup 
of  Yoga  mysticism. 

The  eastern  school  of  devotional  mysticism  worshipped 
Child-Krishna  ( Bala-Gopala ).  So  far  as  we  know'  it  was 
initiated  by  Madhavendra  Puri,  who  though  obviously 
belonging  to  an  Advaita  sect  of  sannyasins,  worshipped  with 
ardent  devotion  an  image  of  Child-Krishna  which  he  found  in 
Mathura.  It  appears  that  Madhavendra  was  the  founder  of 
the  neo-Vaishnav  centre  at  Mathura  which  was  shifted  to 
Brindavan  by  Sanatana  and  Rupa  at  the  instance  of  Chaitanya 
who  located  some  of  the  holy  sites  relating  to  the  Vraja 
legend.  There  were  also  other  reasons  for  this  shift.  One 
of  Madhavendra’s  most  devoted  disciples  was  Isvara  Puri, 
a native  of  Kumarahatta  (about  25  miles  north  of  Calcutta) 
on  the  Gariga,  who  was  the  guru  of  Chaitanya,  the  guru  who 
turned  a high-spirited,  full-blooded  young  pundit  into  the 
passionate  bhakta  whose  devotional  appeal  became  irresistible. 
The  two  most  influential  followers  of  Chaitanya  were 
Advaita  and  Nityananda,  both  years  senior  to  him.  They 
had  come  in  close  contact  with  Madhavendra  who  periodically 
made  long  treks  from  Mathura  to  South  India  and  back 
via  Bengal  and  Orissa  and  brought  sandal-wood  for  the 
worship  of  his  image  of  Krishna.  In  this  way  he  joined 
together  .the  streams  of  Bhakti  from  the  South  and  the  North. 
One  is  tempted  to  surmise  that  in  course  of  such  a journey 
Madhavendra  met  Maladhara  Vasu  the  author  of  the  first 
Bengali  adaptation  of  the  Bhagavata  Pur  ana. 

Madhavendra  did  not  write  books,  only  a few  verses  in 
Sanskrit.  One  of  his  verses  which  he  is  supposed  to  have 
uttered  on  his  death-bed  is  translated  below.  It  reveals  a 
very  passionate  devotee: 

My  master,  compassionate  to  the  miserable,  Lord  of 

Mathura,  when  would  you  have  a look  at  me?  My 


84 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


darling,  not  meeting  you,  my  heart  is  aching  and 
sinking.  What  shall  I do  now? 

This  (Bengal)  Vaishnavism  drew  for  its  inspiration  on 
the  text  of  the  Bhagavata  which  was  probably  of  South  Indian 
origin.  It  seems  to  have  been  brought  to  Bengal  by  Karnata 
brahmans  from  Mithila  who  held  high  office  at  the  court  of 
the  sultan.  Husain  Shah’s  trusted  officers  Sanatan  and  Rup 
were  Karnata  brahmans,  and  we  know  that  before  they  met 
Chaitanya  they  had  been  already  initiated  in  Bhagavata 
Vaishnavism.  By  the  end  of  the  fifteenth  century  the  study 
of  the  Bhagavata  by  devotional  Vaishnavs  had  come  to 
Santipur  and  NavadvTp  (Nadia)  which  had  now  become  the 
centres  of  brahmanical  lore  and  Sanskrit  learning.  Only  very 
ambitious  scholars  with  court  connections  would  go  to  Gaud 
and  risk  the  contamination  of  the  court  atmosphere  and  the 
odium  of  foreign  contact. 


Chaitanya  (or  Visvambhara  as  his  real  name  was  before  his 
renunciation  of  home-life)  was  born  at  Navadvip  in  1486. 
He  was  the  younger  of  two  brothers.  His  father  Jagannath 
Misra  originally  belonged  to  North-east  Bengal  (Sylhet). 
His  mother  Saci  was  a disciple  of  Advaita  Acarya  who  was 
a very  influential  and  very  learned  pundit  also  hailing  from 
Sylhet.  Chaitanya’s  elder  brother  Visvarup  was  about  ten 
years  older,  and  was  a student  of  Advaita.  Learning  that 
his  father  was  arranging  marriage  for  him,  Visvarup  who 
had  imbibed  spiritual  ideas  and  did  not  like  to  enter  domestic 
life,  left  home  and  became  a sannyasin.  This  was  a 
tremendous  blow  to  his  parents  who  had  placed  high  hopes 
on  their  elder  son.  They  would  not  at  first  send  their 
younger  child  to  school  as  they  were  now  afraid  that  Sanskrit 
learning  might  turn  his  head  also.  But  the  father  had  to 
relent  at  the  insistence  of  Chaitanya.  The  schooling  however 
did  not  change  his  nature.  Chaitanya  grew  up  a little  tyrant 


CHAITANYA  AND  HIS  MOVEMENT 


85 


at  home  and  outside,  but  none  could  help  liking  the 
fair-complexioned  good-looking  child  and  his  captivating 
manners.  The  father  did  not  long  survive  the  departure  of 
his  elder  son,  and  his  death  sobered  Chaitanya.  He  whole- 
heartedly pursued  the  path  of  knowledge.  In  a short  time 
Chaitanya  distinguished  himself  as  a grammarian  and 
rhetorician. 

At  the  age  of  sixteen  Chaitanya  was  married  to  Laksmi- 
priya,  a meek  and  docile  girl  of  his  own  choice,  and  he  started 
his  own  school.  Then  he  made  a journey  to  East  Bengal, 
visiting  his  ancestral  home  and  meeting  the  rich  disciples 
of  his  ancestors.  He  returned  home  to  find  that  his  child 
wife  had  died.  After  some  time  Chaitanya  was  persuaded 
to  marry  again.  This  second  wife,  Visnupriya,  belonged  to 
a rich  and  influential  family  of  Navadvip.  Shortly  after  the 
marriage  he  went  to  Gaya  to  perform  the  last  rites  of  his 
father.  There  he  met  Isvara  Puri  a disciple  of  Madhavendra 
Puri  and  attracted  by  the  latter’s  spirituality  he  took  initiation 
from  him.  This  was  the  most  significant  event  in  Chaitanya’s 
life.  The  brahman  boy  in  his  teens,  well-posted  in  life,  an 
acknowledged  leader  of  the  young  scholars  of  Navadvip, 
liked  by  all  for  his  distinguished  looks  and  high-spirited 
intelligence,  now  in  a moment  became  an  emotional 
mystic.  Chaitanya  wanted  to  go  straight  to  Mathura,  the 
land  most  sacred  to  Vaishnavs.  The  ministration  of  his  com- 
panions and  attendants  brought  him  back  home  safely.  This 
change  of  attitude  of  Nimai  Pandit,  as  he  was  then  popularly 
known,  pleased  those  of  his  neighbours  and  well-wishers  who 
were  of  the  Vaishnav  faith  or  inclination  and  who  were 
always  attracted  by  the  boy  in  spite  of  his  whimsical  ways. 

Chaitanya  was  automatically  accepted  as  the  leader  of 
this  small  circle  formed  by  what  may  be  called  the  ‘under- 
ground’ Vaishnavs.  Among  these  first  followers  of  Chaitanya 
were  many  of  his  students  whom  he  was  now  unable  to  teach 
for  exuberence  of  devotional  feeling.  Chaitanya  and  his 
companions  in  faith  muttered  the  various  names  of  Krishna- 


86 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Vishnu  as  the  only  ritual,  which  they  chanted,  sang  and 
danced  together.  This  was  the  beginning  of  ‘Samklrttan' 
(singing  together  the  name  of  God)  introduced  by  Chaitanya 
as  the  ritual  of  public  worship.  It  was  also  a vicarious  begin- 
ning of  the  assertion  of  the  public  right  of  freedom  for  divine 
worship.  The  novelty  of  Samklrttan  caught  public  fancy. 
Finding  a heterogeneous  crowd  too  much  of  a disturbance 
Chaitanya  and  his  followers  used  to  meet  at  night  in  the 
house  of  Srlvas  Pandit,  Chaitanya’s  neighbour  and  family 
friend,  and  chant  the  name  and  glory  of  God.  The  public 
Kirttan  in  daytime  was  entrusted  to  Nityananda  and  Haridas. 
Friendly  people  took  heart  and  began  to  whisper  that 
Chaitanya  was  in  reality  the  brahman  predicted  to  occupy 
the  throne  of  Gaud.  Men  who  did  not  like  Chaitanya  made 
much  of  this  rumour  and  complained  to  the  Kazi  (Muslim 
magistrate)  of  the  locality.  As  a result  Samklrttan  in  public 
was  at  once  forbidden. 

But  Chaitanya  would  not  submit  to  the  wrongful  order 
of  prohibition.  Challenging  the  order  he  led  a Samklrttan 
party  patrolling  through  the  streets  of  Navadvip.  This  party, 
swelling  to  a huge  crowd,  moved  about  the  whole  town  loudly 
singing  the  name  of  God  and  finally  came  to  the  residence 
of  the  Kazi.  The  huge  crowd  and  its  truculent  spirit 
terrorized  the  Kazi  and  he  took  refuge  behind  bolted  doors. 
Chaitanya  called  him  to  come  out  without  fear.  The  Kazi 
came  out  in  a chastened  mood,  humbly  begged  pardon  for 
his  injudicious  order  and  forthwith  withdrew  it.  This 
incident  established  Chaitanya  as  the  leading  figure  of 
Navadvip.  It  was  perhaps"  the  first  act  of  civil  disobedience 
in  the  history  of  India. 

The  divine  spark  in  Chaitanya  was  gradually  flaring  into 
a flame  the  like  of  which  had  never  been  before.  It  is 
therefore  no  wonder  that  his  followers  and  admirers  believed 
him  to  be  an  avatar.  But  Chaitanya  did  not  care  to  be  an 
avatar.  His  mission  was  to  make  even  the  lowliest  God- 
minded  ; he  wanted  the  people  to  be  free  of  all  social  barriers 


CHAITANYA  AND  HIS  MOVEMENT 


87 


and  political  bondage  and  racial  and  doctrinal  inhibitions. 
To  him  there  was  no  difference  between  a brahman  priest 
and  a low-caste  sweeper  as  both  lived  in  God  and  God  livejd 
in  both.  According  to  him  the  best  and  easiest  way  to 
kindle  the  latent  spark  of  the  Divine  in  man  is  to  become 
God-minded  by  taking  the  name  of  God  in  a spirit  of 
humility,  devotion  and  selflessness. 

Advaita  Acarya,  the  brain  behind  Chaitanya,  and 
Haridas,  a Sufi  convert  to  the  Vaishnav  faith  and  a very 
remarkable  personality,  were  of  the  greatest  service  to 
Chaitanya  for  the  propagation  of  his  faith  before  Nityananda, 
whose  is  the  most  honoured  name  after  Chaitanya,  had  joined 
them.  Navadvlp  was  now  in  a tumult  of  devotional  upheaval. 
After  the  quelling  of  the  Kazi  the  most  spectacular  triumph 
of  Chaitanya  was  the  conversion  of  the  brahman  brothers 
Jagai  and  Madhai  who  were  notoriously  bad  characters  and 
who  had  preferred  to  live  a life  of  profligacy  and  taken  to 
the  Muslim  way. 

In  his  twenty-fourth  year  (1509)  Chaitanya  renounced 
home-life  and  became  a sannyasin.  Now  he  made  his  resi- 
dence at  Puri,  which  was  the  nearest  religious  and  pilgrim 
centre  where  a Vaishnav  mendicant  could  live  in  peace, 
inasmuch  as  Orissa  had  not  yet  lost  her  independence  to  the 
Muslim  power.  Six  years  were  spent  in  pilgrimages  to 
Northern,  Western  and  Southern  India. 

His  first  attempt  to  visit  Mathura  had  to  be  terminated 
at  Ramakeli  near  Gaud  as  a very  huge  crowd  had  followed 
him  there  from  Bengal.  Here  he  met  for  the  first  time  the 
brothers  Sanatan  and  Rup.  To  avoid  a crowd  following  him, 
Chaitanya  on  his  next  visit  went  to  Banaras,  Prayag  and 
Mathura  through  the  wild  regions  of  Mayurbhanj  and 
Jharkhand.  He  discovered  some  holy  spots  in  Brindaban  and 
thereby  laid  there  the  foundation  of  the  Bengal  school  of 
Vaishnav  activity.  Before  him  Madhavendra  Puri  had 
started  the  worship  of  Krishna  in  Mathura.  On  the  return 
journey  he  met  Rup  at  Prayag  and  Sanatan  at  Banaras.  The 


88 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


two  brothers  had  then  given  up  the  service  of  the  sultan  and 
adopted  the  life  of  the  Vaishnav  mendicants.  Chaitanya 
directed  the  brothers  to  go  to  Brindaban  and  settle  there  as 
teachers  of  the  faith.  Before  he  undertook  this  pilgrimage 
he  had  completed  his  tour  throughout  South  India,  the 
Deccan  and  Gujarat.  In  course  of  that  tour  he  had  met 
Ramananda  Ray  the  viceroy  of  the  Oriya  king  in  Ganjam 
and  a devout,  mystic  Vaishnav  at  heart. 

For  the  last  eighteen  years  of  his  life  (151 5-33)  Chaitanya 
did  not  leave  Puri.  He  would  come  every  day  to  the 
temple,  take  his  stand  by  the  Garuda  pillar  with  his  eyes 
fixed  on  the  deity  for  hours  and  shedding  streaming  tears. 
Then  he  would  return  home  and  beguile  the  long  hours  of 
disconsolate  separation  from  his  Beloved  by  listening  to  the 
Bhagavata  read  by  Gadadhar  Pandit,  a friend  of  his  child- 
hood days,  and  the  songs  of  Jayadeva  and  other  poets  on  his 
beloved  Krishna  sung  by  Damodar  Svarup.  The  nights  he 
passed  in  sorrowful  ecstasy.  Every  year,  on  the  occasion  of 
the  Car  festival  (‘Rathayatra’)  his  old  friends,  followers  and 
devotees  from  the  farthest  corners  of  Bengal  would  assemble 
at  Puri  and  pass  four  months  joyfully  in  his  company.  This 
annual  pilgrimage  brought  about  a closer  contact  between 
Bengal  and  Orissa. 

Chaitanya  had  already  become  a divinity,  and  many 
regarded  him  as  an  avatar.  Some  of  his  followers  including 
Advaita  started  the  worship  of  Gauranga  (one  of  the  names 
by  which  Chaitanya  was  known  in  his  home-life  ; literally 
‘the  fair-complexioned’)  and  his  wooden  image  was  established 
for  perpetual  worship  at  several  places  in  Bengal.  During 
one  of  the  annual  pilgrimages  at  Puri,  Advaita  publicly 
proclaimed  Chaitanya  as  the  latest  and  greatest  avatar  and 
started  the  vogue  of  Kirttan  (i.e.  ceremonial  singing)  of  his 
name.  Chaitanya  did  not  like  this  at  all  but  the  thing  was 
now  out  of  anybody’s  control  inasmuch  as  the  people’s 
enthusiasm  was  boundless.  Advaita  composed  this  couplet 
which  is  the  first  Kirttan  verse  on  Chaitanya. 


CHAITANYA  AND  HIS  MOVEMENT 


89 


O Sri-Chaitanya,  you  are  Narayana,  the  sea  of  compassion, 
the  friend  of  humble  and  of  the  sufferer.  Do  take  pity 
on  me. 

Chaitanya  did  not  write  much.  The  poem  in  eight 
•stanzas  in  Sanskrit,  known  among  the  Vaishnavs  as 
■Siksastaka  (the  lesson  in  eight  verses)  is  practically  his  only 
writing  that  we  possess  and  it  reveals  the  clearest  enunciation 
■of  his  faith.  The  poem,  translated  below,  tersely  but  feel- 
ingly expresses  the  magnificence  of  Chaitanya’s  faith  of 
•devotion  and  love. 

• 

By  polishing  bright  the  mirror  of  the  heart,  by  quenching 
the  conflagration  of  existence,  by  scattering  the  moon- 
beams that  help  the  lily  of  salvation  to  blossom,  by 
awakening  the  life  of  the  bride  of  knowledge,  by  causing 
the  sea  of  bliss  dispensing  the  drink  of  pure  nectar  at 
every  step,  and  by  cleansing  as  in  a bath  the  entire  soul, 
the  chant  of  the  name  of  Krishna  is  ever  triumphant.  1 

He  has  given  Himself  innumerable  names,  and  in  each 
of  them  He  has  vested  all  His  power.  He  has  assigned 
no  fixed  time  for  contemplating  Him  by  taking  His 
names.  Such  is  Thy  compassion,  my  God!  All  the 
same  I am  so  luckless  that  I feel  no  joy  in  taking  Thy 
name.  2 

Feeling  as  lowly  as  a blade  of  grass,  more  forbearing 
than  a tree,  forgetful  of  his  own  importance  but 
acknowledging  the  same  in  others,  a man  should  chant 
the  name  of  God.  3 

Neither  riches  nor  mastery  over  men,  neither  a lovely 
wife  nor  poetic  gift  do  I desire,  O lord  of  the  universe. 
(My  only  desire  is  that)  in  my  future  births  may  there 
be  pure  devotion  to  Thee,  my  God.  4 


90 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


O son  of  Nanda,  I am  Thy  slave  tossing  helplessly  in 
the  boiling  sea  of  existence.  Do  Thou  mercifully  take 
me  as  a speck  of  dust  of  Thy  feet.  b 

My  eyes  would  be  shedding  streams  of  tears,  my  voice 
would  be  choked  with  emotion,  my  limbs  would  be 
bristling  in  ecstatic  joy : when  could  this  happen  (to  me) 
while  taking  Thy  name?  6 

A moment  seems  as  long  as  an  aeon  ; my  eyes  resemble 
rain-clouds.  The  whole  world  appears  empty,  as  I am 
separated  from  my  God.  7 

He  may  hold  me  in  close  embrace  or  He  may  trample 
me  under  His  feet.  He  may  withdraw  Himself  from 
me  and  make  me  suffer  agonies.  The  fickle  Lover  may 
do  as  He  likes,  but  He  alone  is  the  possessor  of  my 
heart.  8; 

After  Chaitanya  the  acknowledged  leaders  of  the 
Vaishnav  faith  in  Bengal  were  Advaita  and  Nityananda. 
The  latter  was  from  his  early  youth  a god-given  and  restless 
spirit.  In  his  teens  he  had  left  home  in  the  company  of 
a yogi  mendicant  and  had  travelled  extensively  over  Northern 
India,  in  course  of  which  he  had  met  Madhavendra  Purl 
and  had  imbibed  the  spirit  of  the  master’s  fervent  faith.  His 
course  of  itineracy  terminated  at  Navadvip  where  he  now 
met  Chaitanya  and  the  latter  did  much  to  curb  his  exuberance 
but  never  fully  succeeded.  Chaitanya  accepted  Nityananda 
as  his  elder  brother  come  back  home,  and  it  easily  made  the 
newcomer  the  second  in  command.  Advaita  was  already 
fifty  when  Chaitanya  was  born,  and  he  was  not  of  a volatile  or 
highly  emotional  temperament  as  Nityananda  was.  Advaita 
could  never  be  entirely  unconventional  and  go  about  any- 
where and  everywhere  shouting  the  name  of  Hari,  which 
came  naturally  to  Nityananda.  This  endeared  the  latter  to  the 


CHAITANYA  AND  HIS  MOVEMENT 


91 


masses  who  acclaimed  him  as  Chaitanya’s  lieutenant  when  the 
master  was  no  longer  with  them.  Advaita  Acarya  had  in- 
fluential friends  and  disciples,  but  the  followers  of  Nityananda 
were  much  more  numerous  and  they  came  from  every  part 
of  Bengal.  After  the  death  of  Nityananda  and  Advaita  the 
leadership  passed  into  the  hands  of  Jahnava  Devi  and  Sita 
Devi.  The  former  was  the  junior  wife  of  Nityananda  and 
and  the  latter  of  Advaita.  Their  sons  and  grandsons 
started  the  two  main  lines  of  Vaishnav  gurus  in  Bengal 
distinguished  by  the  surname  of  Gosvaml.  Advaita  and 
Nityananda  did  their  best  to  propagate  the  worship  of 
Chaitanya  in  its  simple  and  pure  form.  Nityananda’s 
followers  took  one  step  further:  they  advocated  the  joint 
worship  of  Chaitanya  and  Nityananda.  To  counteract  this 
joint  worship  the  Gosvamins  of  Brindavan  headed  by  Sanatan, 
Rup  and  Jlv  started  the  vogue  of  the  joint  worship  of  Krishna 
and  Radha.  Before  that  only  the  image  of  Krishna  was  wor- 
shipped. The  Radha-Krsna  worship  in  Bengal  (as  distinct 
from  the  Chaitanya-Nityananda  worship  which  was  estab- 
lished fully)  was  sponsored  mainly  by  the  wives  and  successors 
of  Advaita  and  Nityananda. 

Sanatan  and  Rup  who  established  the  centre  of  Vaishnav 
learning  in  Brindaban  after  the  death  of  Chaitanya  took 
for  themselves  a firm  stand  on  the  Bhagavata.  They  did 
not  encourage  the  cult  of  Chaitanya  and  Nityananda, 
and  wrote  volumes  of  poetry,  drama,  rhetoric  and 
philosophy  as  well  as  commentaries  in  support  of  the  wor- 
ship of  Radha  and  Krsna.  This  was  not  because  they  rejected 
Chaitanya  worship  but  because  they  wanted  to  stop  the 
degeneration  of  Chaitanya’s  faith  into  a mere  cult  of  avatar 
worship.  The  Gosvamins  of  Brindavan  not  only  believed  in 
the  avatarhood  of  Chaitanya  but  went  further.  They  held 
the  view  that  Chaitanya  was  the  joint  avatar  of  Radha  and 
Krsna  and  therefore  the  completest  avatar.  But  they  also 
held  that  Chaitanya  was  an  avatar  who  had  refused  to  be 
worshipped  as  such  and  wanted  to  be  taken  as  an  ordinary 


92 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


man.  According  to  them  Chaitanya’s  apparent  mission  was 
to  show  the  easy  path  of  salvation  to  men  of  this  dark  age 
but  his  real  purpose  was  to  experience  the  bitter-sweet  expe- 
rience of  the  divine  love  by  divinity  itself.  This  interpreta- 
tion of  Chaitanya’s  life  and  activity  was  first  promulgated  by 
Svarup  Damodar  and  developed  as  a doctrine  by  Sanatan  and 
Rup  and  by  their  colleagues  and  followers  at  Brindavan, 
who  wrote  the  Sanskrit  texts  and  commentaries  on  the  faith 
of  Chaitanya  as  they  understood  it. 

The  influence  of  Chaitanya’s  personality  and  faith  had 
reached  the  fringes  of  Assam.  Sankar-Dev  (d.  1568)  who  was 
mainly  responsible  for  the  propagation  of  the  Bhagavata 
Vaishnavism  in  Kamarup  and  Coochbehar  had  possibly 
met  Chaitanya  at  Puri  and  received  inspiration  from  him. 
Like  Chaitanya,  Sankar-Dev  was  a worshipper  of  Child 
Krishna  ; the  joint  worship  of  Radha  and  Krsna  was  not 
known  to  him.  This  form  of  worship  reached  Assam  only 
towards  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century.  Its  introduction 
brought  in  a schism  in  the  Vaishnav  faith  in  that  country. 
The  followers  of  Sankar-Dev  (who  was  a Kayastha  and  there- 
fore opposed  by  the  orthodox  brahman  community)  formed 
the  ‘Mahapurusiya’  sect,  and  the  followers  of  Damodar-Dev 
(who  admitted  Chaitanya  as  the  completest  avatar  represent- 
ing Krsna  and  Radha  together)  were  known  as  the  ‘Damoda- 
rlya’  sect.  The  inspiration  of  the  latter  sect  undoubtedly 
emanated  from  Brindavan,  and  from  Assam  and  Navadvip 
it  went  over  to  Manipur.  In  Orissa  Bengal  Vaishnavism 
was  accepted  in  general,  but  there  was  a setback  after  the 
death  of  the  leading  followers  of  Chaitanya,  and  especially 
after  the  fall  of  the  kingdom. 

The  Brindavan  school  of  Vaishnavism  (presided  over  by 
six  masters,  four  hailing  from  Bengal,  one  each  from  Bihar 
and  South  India)  offered  shelter  to  the  homeless  Vaishnavs 
from  all  provinces  of  India.  Some  time  after  the  death  of 
Nityananda  and  Advaita  the  Vaishnav  leaders  in  Bengal 


CHAITANYA  AND  HIS  MOVEMENT 


93 


began  to  take  guidance  from  Brindavan,  and  Bengal  Vaish- 
navism  slowly  but  surely  took  up  the  colouring  of  a 
kind  of  orthodoxy.  Brindavan  became  the  spiritual  as  well 
as  material  goal  of  all  Vaishnav  devotees  and  as  a conse- 
quence the  importance  of  the  local  centres  (such  as  Navadvlp, 
Santipur,  Khardah  and  a few  others)  gradually  diminished. 


8 


THE  NEW  URGE  IN  LITERATURE 


Chaitanya  brought  together  the  people  of  Bengal  and 
Orissa  and  also  a large  body  of  men  from  other  parts  of 
India  who  came  in  personal  contact  with  him,  on  a common 
platform  of  emancipated  religious  thought  and  spiritual 
emotion,  which  gave  a tremendous  impetus  to  intellectual 
activity  and  created  a new  interest  in  life  and  a new  literary 
and  artistic  urge.  The  common  platform  was  open  to  all, 
high  and  low,  rich  and  poor,  Hindu  and  Muslim.  Chaitanya 
did  not  try  openly  to  do  away  with  the  caste  system,  but  he 
attempted  to  undo  its  evil  effects  indirectly.  He  respected 
the  casteism  of  the  priesthood  but  did  not  himself  hesitate  to 
bury  with  his  own  hand  the  dead  body  of  Haridas,  a 
Muslim  by  birth,  and  observe  his  death  ceremony  (‘urs’). 
This  was  the  origin  of  the  custom  of  the  death  ceremony 
‘Mahotsav’  and  its  anniversary  regularly  observed  even 
now  by  the  orthodox  Vaishnavs.  Nityananda  also  did  not 
encourage  orthodoxy.  He  treated  all  men  as  equal.  Bengal 
Vaishnavism  did  away  with  casteism  to  this  extent  that  some 
of  the  non-brahman  followers  of  Chaitanya  became  acknow- 
ledged gurus  who  had  brahmans  too  among  their  disciples. 
But  this  tendency  of  liberalism  was  checked  by  the  imposi- 
tion of  the  rigid  rules  of  conduct  of  the  Brindavan  school. 

As  an  advance  towards  social  freedom  this  was  a gain, 
no  doubt,  but  not  much.  The  psychological  effect,  how- 
ever, was  tremendous,  inasmuch  as  it  brought  about  an 
atmosphere  of  relief  and  thankfulness  ; and  thoughtful  men 
found  an  outlet  for  their  emotional  upsurge — which  in- 
variably flowed  into  literature  and  music.  Chaitanya  was  a 
lover  of  the  songs  of  Jayadeva,  Vidyapati,  Candidas  and  other 
poets,  and  he  imparted  his  love  to  some  of  his  followers. 
This  was  the  beginning  of  the  lyric  impulse  that  brought 
vitality  into  literature  and  music. 

Chaitanya  was  so  magnetic  and  overwhelming  a persona- 


THE  NEW  URGE  IN  LITERATURE 


95 


lity  and  his  influence  was  so  pervasive  that  he  was  even  during 
his  lifetime  looked  upon  as  an  incarnation  of  God.  As  a 
sequence  the  spotlight  of  popular  reverence  and  faith  shifted 
from  the  traditional  deities  to  a contemporary  human  being. 
The  faithful  believed  that  in  Chaitanya  God  had  appeared 
on  the  earth  as  a man.  This  faith  found  enthusiastic  expres- 
sion in  works  glorifying  the  life  of  the  man  who  was  God. 

Except  for  some  stray  couplets  and  sporadic  songs  the 
■first  attempts  in  this  direction  were  in  Sanskrit.  The  first 
biography  of  Chaitanya  is  by  Murari  Gupta,  one  of  the 
master’s  oldest  followers.  It  is  in  the  form  of  a narrative 
poem  in  Sanskrit  and  has  been  known  as  Murari  Gupta’s 
Journal  (‘Kadaca’).  For  the  early  life  of  Chaitanya  it 
supplied  the  materials  to  all  the  later  biographers.  The  next 
work  was  a Sanskrit  drama  written  by  a brahman  devotee 
from  East  or  North-east  Bengal.  The  author  came  to  Puri 
to  meet  Chaitanya  and  to  have  his  work  accepted  by  the 
master  and  his  followers.  He  received  no  encouragement 
and  consequently  it  perished  leaving  for  us  the  solitary 
opening  verse  quoted  in  a later  work.  The  next  important 
work  in  Sanskrit  is  a very  short  poem  written  by  Raghunath 
Das,  sole  heir  to  a large  estate  who  had  renounced  home-life 
and  lived  as  a mendicant  at  the  feet  of  Chaitanya  at  Puri. 
Raghunath  was  an  eyewitness  to  the  activities  of  the  master 
during  the  last  ten  or  twelve  years  of  his  life.  His  poem 
therefore  has  preserved  for  us  the  most  authentic  record 
of  the  later  life  of  Chaitanya.  Paramananda  Sen,  entitled 
‘Kavi-karnapur’  (Ear  Ornament  of  Poets),  who  was  the 
youngest  son  of  a follower  of  Chaitanya,  wrote  on  the  life 
of  the  master  a drama  ( Caitanyacandrodaya ) and  an  epic 
poem  ( Caitanyacaritamrta ) completed  in  1538  and  1542 
respectively.  The  poet’s  third  attempt  on  the  subject  is  a 
list  of  the  names  of  the  more  important  followers  of 
Chaitanya  and  of  their  disciples.  This  work  was  written 
in  1545. 

Caitanyamangal,  better  known  as  Caitanya-Bhagavat, 


96 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


by  Brndavandas  is  the  first  biography  of  Chaitanya  written 
in  Bengali.  It  is  a long  narrative  poem  divided  into  three 
sections  (‘Khanda’)  and  fifty-two  chapters  (‘Adhyaya’).  The 
name  Caitanyamahgal  suggests  that  it  was  meant  to  be 
chanted  and  sung  like  the  traditional  narrative  poems  on 
the  mythological  topics.  Brndavandas’s  poem  was  a success 
from  the  very  beginning,  and  its  popularity  has  been  main- 
tained. The  other  title  ( Caitanya-Bhagavat ) by  which  the 
poem  is  generally  known  indicates  that  it  is  connected  with 
Chaitanya  worship  in  the  same  way  as  the  Bhagavata  is 
associated  with  Krishna  worship.  Brndavandas  was  a grand- 
nephew of  Srivas  Pandit,  Chaitanya’s  elderly  neighbour  and 
family  friend  and  one  of  the  two  earliest  followers.  Young 
Brndavan  became  a disciple  of  Nityananda  at  whose  instance 
the  poem  was  written.  The  material  was  obtained  from 
Nityananda,  Advaita  and  other  close  followers  of  the  master. 
The  documentary  value  of  the  poem  is  undeniable  if  we 
overlook  the  bias  of  the  poet  and  his  impatient  effusions. 
The  date  of  composition  is  not  known.  There  is  no  refer- 
ence to  the  end  of  Chaitanya’s  life,  neither  of  Nityananda 
and  Advaita  both  of  whom  survived  Chaitanya.  It  can  be 
safely  assumed  that  the  work  was  begun  when  Chaitanya  was 
living  and  was  completed  soon  after  the  death  of  the  master 
and  before  the  birth  of  Nityananda’s  son.  This  would  mean 
that  Brnda  van’s  poem  was  completed  some  time  about  1540. 

Brndavandas  was  indeed  a poet  and  could  not  have 
avoided  lyrical  touches  in  his  narration.  His  sincere  devo- 
tion and  enthusiastic  admiration  have  often  imparted  a glow 
to  his  diction  which  rescues  his  expression  of  sectarian  dogma 
from  triviality.  Incidentally  the  poem  contains  invaluable 
details  throwing  a great  deal  of  light  on  the  social  conditions 
of  West  Bengal  in  the  late  fifteenth  century,  just  before 
Chaitanya  was  born. 

Brndavandas  succeeded  in  presenting  a picture  of 
Chaitanya  that  is  entirely  human.  This  is  in  very  refreshing 
contrast  with  the  colourless  and  stereotyped  artificiality  of 


THE  NEW  URGE  IN  LITERATURE 


97 


the  characters  drawn  from  mythology  and  folk-lore  and 
delineated  in  contemporary  ‘Mangala’  poetry. 

Krsnadas  Kaviraj’s  Caitanyacaritamrta  (Nectar  of  the 
Activities  of  Chaitanya)  is  the  next  biographical  work  of  im- 
portance. In  one  respect  at  least  it  is  more  important  than 
any  other  work  on  Chaitanya  and  his  faith:  it  incorporates 
the  rhetorico-philosophical  theories  on  Chaitanya  and 
Vaishnavism  propounded  by  Damodar  Svarup  and  accepted 
by  Sanatan,  Rup  and  other  Vaishnav  leaders  at  Brindavan. 
Krsnadas  had  left  home  at  a comparatively  early  age  and  gone 
to  live  at  Brindavan  as  a Vaishnav  recluse,  probably  in  temple 
service  of  the  deity  Madana-Gopala  established  by  Sanatan. 
During  the  last  days  of  Rup  and  of  Raghunath  Das  he  served 
as  their  personal  attendant.  Like  them  Krsnadas  did  not 
accept  Chaitanya  as  an  avatar  alone  of  Vishnu  as  Brndavandas 
had  done.  Unlike  his  predecessor  Krsnadas  was  a good 
Sanskrit  scholar  and  as  seen  above,  he  had  come  in  close 
contact  with  Sanatan,  Rup,  Raghunath  and  other  old 
Vaishnav  leaders  at  Brindavan,  but  like  Brndavandas  he  was 
a follower  of  Nityananda.  As  a veteran  of  the  Brindavan 
school  Krsnadas  accepted  Chaitanya  as  the  avatar  of  Krsna 
and  Radha  in  the  same  person  and  therefore  the  fullest  of 
the  avatars.  His  treatment  of  the  life  of  the  master  was 
from  this  viewpoint.  As  a biography  Krsnadas’s  poem  is  of 
a very  high  standard  as  he  has  never  failed  to  quote  authority 
for  his  statements.  It  is,  however,  not  merely  a biography. 
Caitanyacaritamrta  is  a compendium  of  the  Vaishnav  faith 
in  both  its  mystic  and  its  philosophical  aspects.  The  date  of 
composition  is  not  known.  Some  manuscripts  give  it  as 
1616.  But  there  are  strong  reasons  against  accepting  so  late 
a date.  It  appears  that  Raghunath  Das  was  living  when 
Krsnadas  completed  the  poem.  The  probable  date  was  some 
time  between  1575  and  1595. 

Krsnadas  was  a profound  scholar  and  his  Sanskrit  works 
include  an  elaborate  ‘epic’  poem  on  the  story  of  Radha  and 
Krsna  entitled  Govindalilamrta  (Nectar  of  the  Sports  of 
7 


98 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Govinda).  Caitanyacaritamrta,  his  masterpiece,  was  produced 
when  he  was  a very  old  man.  As  has  been  said  this  biography 
of  Chaitanya  in  Bengali  is  a very  remarkable  work  ; it  is  the 
most  scholarly  book  that  has  yet  been  written  in  Bengali  on 
the  subject,  but  the  proper  Vaishnav  spirit  of  humility  is 
never  absent.  Brnda vandas  had  given  full  account  of  the 
early  life  of  Chaitanya.  Krsnadas  has  given  only  a mere 
outline  of  it  so  that  his  predecessor’s  excellent  work  might 
not  be  superceded.  On  the  other  hand,  he  treated  the  last 
eighteen  years  of  Chaitanya’s  life  in  detail  as  it  had  not 
been  done  by  any  of  his  predecessors.  As  a biography 
of  Chaitanya,  Caitanyacaritamrta  is  also  unique  in  respect 
of  accounts  of  the  master’s  extensive  travels.  Krsnadas’s 
command  over  the  language  was  much  in  advance  of  his 
time.  He  wrote  verses  with  as  much  facility  and  force  as 
prose.  Thus  as  a biography  and  as  a work  of  thought 
Krsnnadas’s  Life  of  Chaitanya  is  a landmark  in  New  Indian 
literature. 

Locandas,  one  of  the  best  known  lyric  poets  of  the  early 
sixteenth  century,  also  wrote  a biography  of  Chaintanya 
( Caitanyamangal ) based  largely  on  the  Sanskrit  poem  of 
Murari  Gupta.  Locan’s  poem  opens  in  the  typical  manner 
of  a Parana  but  otherwise  the  traditional  narrative  frame  is 
preserved.  It  is  full  of  lyrical  flourishes  and  for  this  reason 
it  maintained  its  popularity  among  the  masses  longer  than 
any  other  biographical  poem  on  Chaitanya. 

Some  very  fine  Vaishnav  lyrics  were  produced  by  Locan. 
He  introduced  the  vogue  of  the  ‘Dhamali’  poems  or  songs. 
Such  songs,  written  in  popular  tripping  metre  and  in  in- 
elegant diction  and  feminine  taste  came  originally  from  the 
domain  of  women’s  recitals.  The  topic  of  these  songs  was 
almost  exclusively  the  love  affair  of  Krishna  and  the  cowherd 
maidens.  Locan  adopted  the  ‘Dhamali’  style  also  for  some 
of  his  songs  on  Chaitanya.  It  may  be  remembered  here  that 
the  poet’s  guru  Narahari  Das  Sarkar  was  one  of  the  pioneers 
of  Chaitanya  worship.  Locan  wrote  also  some  mystic  songs. 


THE  NEW  URGE  IN  LITERATURE 


99 


The  Bengali  original  of  the  following  mystic  song  is  in  the 
‘Dhamali’  style: 

In  the  land  of  the  Vraja  and  in  the  city  of  Beauty  the 
river  of  Bliss  flows  by.  Along  the  bank  a ripple  came  and 
touched  the  person  of  Gora.1  It  swelled  into  a billow 
of  love  that,  by  day  and  night,  surged  up  and  down  the 
person  of  Gaur.1  Men  gave  up  their  occupation  and 
religious  meditation  and  the  religious  mendicants  threw 
away  asceticism.  In  their  heart  of  hearts  men  are  putting 
all  blame  on  Beauty,  but  that  Beauty  is  but  a spring  of 
honey,  fathomless.  Contemplation  of  this  beauty  is  as  of 
a necklace  of  gold.  It  dispells  the  darkness  of  the  mind. 
The  stream  of  Beauty  strangely  enough  runs  through  the 
dark  universe.  The  universe  floats  in  the  sea  of  Beauty 
and  Bliss  and  so  also  the  fourteen  worlds.  One  worships' 
as  one  eats  ; one  is  overwhelmed  when  one  looks  on 
one  knows  not  when  one  speaks.  Whoever,  volunteering 
a difficult  service  kills  his  own  self,  says  Locan,  verily 
obtains  Gaur  effortlessly. 

Of  the  biographies  of  Chaitanya  written  in  the  sixteenth 
century  two  others  are  worth  mention.  One  is  by  Cudamani- 
das,  a disciple  of  a follower  of  Nityananda.  His  book  is 
entitled  Gaurangavijay.  It  contains  some  additional  and 
valuable  information  about  the  early  life  of  Chaitanya  and 
Nityananda.  The  narration  is  good.  The  poem  must  have 
been  written  before  1560. 

The  other  is  Caitanyamahgal  by  Jayananda.  It  is  a 
poem  of  the  popular  narrative  type.  Jayananda  belonged  to 
South-west  Bengal  and  his  poem  was  known  almost  exclu- 
sively in  that  region.  Jayananda’s  father  was  a disciple  of 
Gadadhar  Pandit,  one  of  the  closest  followers  of  Chaitanya.- 
Jayananda  therefore  was  a younger  contemporary  of  Cuda- 
manidas.  In  the  introductory  portion  of  his  poem  Jayananda 


1 Literally  a fair-complexioned  man,  i.e.  Gauranga  (Chaitanya). 


100 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


mentions  by  name  some  of  his  predecessors  in  the  field,  of 
whom  only  Brndavandas’s  work  is  known  to  us.  Jayananda’s 
Caitanyamangal  is  the  only  work  where  the  incident  of 
Chaitanya’s  death  is  mentioned.  There  is  some  additional 
information  about  the  master  and  his  ancestors,  which  may 
not  be  fully  authentic.  By  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth 
century  quite  a mass  of  legends  had  grown  up  round  the 
name  of  Chaitanya,  and  long  before  the  close  of  the  century 
he  had  been  set  up  in  the  full  glory  of  a regular  mytho- 
logical deity.  Jayananda’s  appeal  was  not  to  the  initiated 
and  devout  Vaishnav  but  to  the  common  people  who  were 
interested  in  the  life  story  of  the  master  rather  than  in 
theological  explanations.  This  is  why  Jayananda  had  in- 
corporated in  his  biography  of  Chaitanya  long  Puranic  tales 
such  as  the  story  of  Dhruva,  Jada-Bharata  and  Indradyumna. 
Jayananda’s  poem  is  not  suffused  with  inspiration  as  Brnda- 
vandas’s is  but  it  bears  ample  evidence  of  his  devotion  and 
fervour.  Passages  marked  with  a felicity  of  expression 
emanating  from  a deep  feeling  of  sincerity  and  devotion  are 
not  rare. 

In  the  following  centuries  some  small  treatises  on  the 
life  of  Chaitanya  were  written,  of  which  one  may  be  men- 
tioned. It  is  Premadas’s  (the  real  name  of  the  author  being 
Purusottam  Misra)  Caitanyacandrodayakaumudi  (Beams  of 
the  Rise  of  Caitanya  the  Moon),  an  adaption  (in  Bengali  verse) 
of  the  Sanskrit  drama  Caitanyacandrodaya  by  Paramanand 
Sen.  Another  and  a much  smaller  work  is  Caitanyasamhita 
(Caitanya  Scripture)  by  BhagTrath  Bandhu.  It  follows  the 
pattern  of  the  ‘Agama’  or  tantric  texts  inasmuch  as  the  story 
is  told  by  Siva  to  his.  spouse. 

The  divinity  of  Chaitanya  was  completely  taken  for 
granted  by  the  people  before  the  century  was  over,  and 
therefore  a prayer  to  Chaitanya  was  invariably  included  in 
the  opening  of  all  narrative  poems  (Vaishnav  or  otherwise) 
that  were  chanted  and  sung  in  assembly.  Some  new  material 
(historical  or  legendary)  on  the  life  of  the  master  may  be 


THE  NEW  URGE  IN  LITERATURE 


101 


gathered  from  such  ‘Vandana’  portions  of  the  ‘Pancall’ 
poems  from  the  late  sixteenth  century  downward.  All  sessions 
of  Kirttan  performance  started  with  such  songs  on  the  master 
as  were  relevant  to  the  topic  or  the  occasion.  Such  songs 
were  known  as  ‘Gauracandrika’  (i.e.  relating  to  Gauranga 
the  Moon). 

No  separate  biography  of  Nityananda  was  ever  written, 
and  all  the  sixteenth  century  biographies  of  Chaitanya  were 
written  by  disciples  or  disciples’  disciples  of  Nityananda. 
These  works  contain  all  the  essential  information  about 
Nityananda’s  life  and  activities.  There  are  however  short 
and  long  poems  on  the  life  and  activities  of  Advaita,  written 
in  Sanskrit  and  Bengali.  But  the  genuineness  of  these  works 
is  not  beyond  reasonable  doubt.  The  same  remark  is  more 
strongly  applicable  to  the  small  treatises  in  Bengali  recounting 
the  spiritual  glory  of  Advaita’s  junior  wife  Slta  and  of  her 
two  attendants. 


In  the  closing  decade  of  the  sixteenth  century  and  in  the 
opening  decade  of  the  next  Vaishnav  activities  in  Bengal 
received  a new  impetus  from  the  enthusiasm  of  the  trium- 
virate, Srinivas  Acarya,  Narottam  (Datta)  Das  and  Syama- 
nanda  Das  (died  1630),  who  had  received  their  training  in 
Brindavan  and  had  indeed  been  instructed  by  its  leader  then, 
Jlva  Goswami,  to  propagate  in  Bengal  the  doctrines  of  the 
Brindavan  school.  Srinivas’s  activities  were  confined  to 
West  Bengal.  Narottam,  who  belonged  to  a rich  family  with 
political  connections  at  Gaud,  was  not  so  much  a preacher 
as  a mystic  recluse.  But  his  influence  and  fame  were  not 
confined  to  North  and  Central  Bengal  and  he  has  always 
been  the  most  remembered  of  the  three.  Syamananda 
belonged  to  Jharkhand  and  he  did  much  to  spread  the  faith 
in  that  region.  Besides  the  three  leaders  there  were  Janhaba 
the  junior  wife  of  Nityananda  and  the  latter’s  son  by  the 
senior  wife,  Vtrabhadra  (or  Viracandra),  who  were  the 


102 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


topmost  leaders  of  the  Bengal  Vaishnavs.  The  activities  of 
these  and  other  notable  Vaishnavs  in  Bengal  became  the 
subject  matter  of  more  than  one  biographical  work  (not  of 
the  lyrical  but  of  the  reading  type)  in  the  seventeenth  and 
-eighteenth  centuries. 

As  time  wore  on  the  influence  of  the  Brindavan  school 
-became  greater  and  greater  so  that  by  the  beginning  of  the 
seventeenth  century  the  Bengal  school  of  Vaishnavism  of 
which  the  gurus  were  the  wives  and  children  of  Nityananda 
and  Advaita  and  the  offspring  of  some  other  leading  followers 
of  Chaitanya,  began  to  lose  initiative  and  authority  and  the 
living  faith  was  slowly  smothered  by  the  weight  of  the 
teachings  of  the  Brindavan  Goswamins  which  now  deter- 
mined the  conduct  and  the  quest  of  the  seeker  of  God.  The 
guru  who  was  in  reality  the  guide  on  the  path  to  God  now 
tended  to  become  the  agent  of  God,  till  finally  he  stood 
between  man  and  God,  often  completely  screening  Him. 
The  office  of  the  guru  became  hereditary. 

But  the  Bengal  school  of  Vaishnavism  did  not  perish 
'altogether.  It  became  tinctured  with  Tantrism,  and  not 
being  approved  by  the  Brindavan  Gosvamins  it  had  to  go 
underground.  Its  followers  did  not  care  for  Sanskrit  learning 
and  they  wrote  only  in  the  vernacular.  Their  most  esteemed 
-text  was  Caitanyacaritamrta  of  Krsnadas  in  which  there  is 
an  ' attempt  at  synthesis  of  the  learned  theology  of  the 
Gosvamins  and  the  mystic  approach.  The  Bauls  of  the  later 
centuries  were  the  true  representatives  of  what  may  be  called 
the  underground  mystic  school  of  Bengal  Vaishnavism.  There 
'is  a dash  of  Sufiism  in  it  but  some  touch  of  it  was  already 
there  in  Chaitanya’s  faith.  One  of  his  right-hand  men  when 
he  first  proclaimed  his  faith  at  Navadvlp  was  Haridas,  and 
he  was  a Sufi  before  he  had  come  to  the  Vaishnav  path.  To 
-Sanatan  and  Rup  Sufiism  was  certainly  not  unknown. 


9 


VAISHNAV  LYRIC  SONGS  AND 
NARRATIVE  POETRY 


So  far  as  evidence  goes  ‘Vaishnav’  lyric  poetry,  i.e.  the  lyric 
songs  written  on  the  love  of  Krsna  and  Radha,  were  written 
by  Bengali  poets  serving  in  various  capacities  at  the  court  in 
Gaud.  There  was  still  a direct  political  and  cultural  contact 
between  Gaud  and  Mithila.  Scholars  from  Bengal  would  go 
to  Mithila  for  study  as  that  region  was  not  then  under  the 
direct  control  of  Muslim  rulers.  It  is  quite  probable  that 
Mithila  where  the  tradition  of  ‘Vaishnav’  lyric  poetry  was 
continuing  unbroken  for  about  a couple  of  centuries  would 
give  a new  impetus  to  the  lyric  tendency  in  Bengali  poetry. 
Although  the  earliest  available  specimen  of  Vaishnav  lyric 
poetry  of  Bengal  dated  from  the  last  decades  of  the  fifteenth 
century  it  cannot  be  said  that  it  actually  originated  in  the 
second  half  of  the  fifteenth  century  or  that  it  was  an 
imitation  of  the  sqngs  of  Vidyapati  and  his  predecessors  and 
contemporaries  in  Mithila.  There  are  Avahattha  verses  on 
the  ‘Vaishnav’  theme  written  in  Bengali  in  the  thirteenth 
and  fourteenth  centuries.  Poets  from  Bengal  wrote  ‘Vaishnav’' 
lyrics  in  Nepal  in  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries. 
There  is  also  evidence  to  show  that  Bengali  lyric  poetry  was 
not  unknown  in  Mithila  in  the  sixteenth  century.  Before 
that  century  Gaud  was  the  main  centre  of  literary  contact 
between  Bengal  and  Mithila. 

Vaishnav  lyric  poetry  in  Bengal  is  not  all  written  in 
Bengali.  Quite  a large  part  of  it,  rather  the  bulk  of  it,  is 
written  in  Brajabuli  which,  with  its  variable  vowel  length 
and  moraic  metre  and  with  its  archaic  vocabulary  and 
minimum  of  grammar,  offered  to  the  better  equipped  writers 
a sonorous  instrument  that  was  almost  readymade.  The 
Vaishnav  lyrics,  Bengali  or  Brajabuli,  are  songs  and  therefore 
never  fully  divorced  from  melody.  The  second  couplet,  often 
containing  a shorter  verse  line,  is  the  refrain.  The  poet’s 


104 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


name  occurs  in  the  last  couplet.  The  peculiar  musical  style 
in  which  these  songs  are  sung  is  known  as  ‘Klrttan’.  This 
style,  which  must  have  prevailed  since  early  times,  was 
elaborated  and  developed  by  Narottam  Das  towards  the  end 
of  the  sixteenth  century.  He  held  a festival  on  the  occasion 
of  the  ceremonial  installation  of  the  deities  Radha-Krsna  and 
Chaitanya-Nityananda,  and  gave  a demonstration  of  the  new 
Klrttan. 

In  the  seventeenth  century  there  were  evolved  two 
lighter  styles  of  Klrttan.  These  later  styles  absorbed  much 
from  folk  music,  so  that  they  ultimately  presented  an 
altogether  novel  and  highly  expressive  form  of  Indian  music. 
Jayadeva’s  lyrics  would  not  have  survived  but  for  their  music, 
and  the  Vaishnav  lyric  poetry  would  have  long  gone  out  of 
fashion  but  for  the  freshness  of  its  style  of  music,  of 
which  the  cadence  closely  corresponds  to  the  metrical  rhythm 
of  the  songs. 

These  lyrics  or  songs  deal  mostly  if  not  exclusively  with 
the  unwedded  love  of  Radha  and  Krsna.  The  matter  as 
well  as  the  form  was  extremely  limited  and  stereotyped  and 
there  was  very  little  scope  for  a poet’s  individuality.  Some 
of  the  earlier  writings,  however,  show  emotional  height  in 
some  individual  lines  and  couplets,  if  not  in  the  entire  poem. 
The  intense,  all-consuming,  self-sacrificing  love  of  Radha  for 
Krsna  could  be  passionately  and  convincingly  echoed  by  only 
a very  few  and  they  all  belonged  to  the  early  part  of  the 
sixteenth  century.  When  Chaitanya’s  teachings  had  been 
cast  into  the  rigid  frame-work  of  a religious  cult  on  tradi- 
tional lines  and  when  Rup  Gosvamin’s  books  dictated  the 
rules  which  the  approved  Vaishnav  poetry  must  follow  the 
fate  of  Bengali  lyric  poetry  was  sealed.  In  the  second  half 
of  the  century  some  gifted  writers  appeared  but  their 
poetry  hardly  came  up  to  the  earlier  level.  In  the  sub- 
sequent century  Vaishnav  poetry  is  seldom  more  than  mere 
repetition. 


VAISHNAV  LYRIC  SONGS  AND  NARRATIVE  POETRY  105 


Chaitanya’s  divine  passion  gave  a new  spiritual  meaning  to 
Radha’s  love  for  Krishna  and  this  is  the  reason  why  the  best 
of  the  Vaishnav  lyric  songs  were  written  by  the  direct 
followers  of  Chaitanya  and  their  immediate  followers  who  had 
seen  the  master.  One  of  the  earliest  and  best  was  Murari 
Gupta,  the  oldest  of  the  biographers.  He  did  not  write 
much  in  the  vernacular  and  his  lyric  songs  number  less  than 
six,  two  of  which  are  among  the  best.  One  describes  Radha’s 
attitude  to  her  friend’s  pleading  against  forbidden  love. 
Radha  says  to  her  friend: 

My  dear,  go  back  home.  How  can  you  convince  a person 
more  dead  than  alive,  a person  who  has  committed 
suicide?  The  charming  beauty  (of  my  lover)  ever  dances 
before  my  eyes  ; my  life  is  in  my  heart.  Making  a 
bonfire  of  my  love  I have  burnt  everything  else:  my 
caste,  my  family  prestige,  my  good  name  and  myself. 
Not  knowing  what  love  is  the  fools  talk  about  me  I know 
not  what  and  I do  not  care  to  know.  I have  set  myself 
adrift  in  a stream,  vast  and  swift-flowing.  What  can  the 
dogs  on  the  bank1  do  now?  In  eating,  in  sleeping,  in 
the  act  of  living  nothing  else  matters  to  me  ; nothing 
appeals  to  me  but  my  lover.  Murari  Gupta  says:  when 
love  reaches  such  a height  its  glory  is  echoed  in  the  three 
worlds. 

• . 

The  other  poem  describes  the  sad  state  of  love-stricken 
Radha  when  Krsna  had  left  Brindavan.  Radha’s  friend 
comes  to  Krishna  at  Mathura  and  speaks  to  him: 

How  hateful  is  the  show  of  love  you  had  made  to  Radha 
as  you  have  left  her  more  dead  than  living:  her 
condition  is  now  precarious.  How  long  can  a tiny  fish 
remain  alive  out  of  water?  Hear  me,  O fair  Madhava! 
You  have  left  burning  an  eternal  lamp,  supplied  with 

1 In  the  original  ‘Kula’  carries  a double  sense,  ‘family’  ( kula ) and 
‘bank’  (kula). 


106 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


only  a drop  of  oil.  How  can  it  go  on  burning  without 
supply?  And  a blast  will  soon  blow  to  snuff  it  out, 
I am  afraid.  Come  back  quick  and  save  her  life.  I am 
given  to  understand  that  love  sparkles  only  when  face 
to  face  and  that  a friend  becomes  a foe  when  he 
is  away.  An  instance  is  the  lotus  and  the  sun: 
when  the  lotus  is  taken  out  of  water  the  sun  only 
withers  it,  and  when  it  withers  love  perishes.  You  are 
causing  her  as  much  suffering  as  you  had  given  her  joy  ; 
you  have  brought  on  her  the  plight  of  the  moon. 
Gupta  says:  in  a month  the  moon  is  entirely  gone,  and 
the  new  moon  night  happens  to  be  the  critical  time.2 3 


As  was  previously  mentioned  Locan,  one  of  the  biographers 
of  Chaitanya,  was  a good  lyric  poet.  He  had  a fair  command 
over  the  colloquial  vocabulary  which  he  amply  exploited. 
He  was  also  daring  enough  to  introduce  the  colloquial 
rhythm  in  Bengali  poetry.  Locan’s  guru  Narahari  also- 
wrote  some  good  songs.  It  is  a notable  fact  that  some  of 
the  songs  of  Narahari  and  Locan,  in  later  MSS,  appear  with 
the  signature  of  Candidas. 

Among  the  direct  followers  of  Chaitanya  (Chaitanya 
made  no  disciples)  there  were  many  who  wrote  lyric  songs 
on  the  Radha-Krsna  theme  and  on  the  master.  A few 
deserve  special  notice.  Basudev  Ghos  wrote  almost  exclu- 
sively on  the  early  life  of  Chaitanya.  His  songs  on  the 
Krishna  theme  are  only  a few  and  these  were  not  so  popular. 
The  following  is  a good  instance  of  Basudev’s  poetry: 

On  a dark  and  drizzling  night  Radha  is  eagerly  expecting 
a meeting  with  her  lover — 

O water-laden  cloud,  do  you  rain  down  with  a cheer- 


2 According  to  the  Indian  medical  lore  a person  seriously  ill  rarely 
survives  a crisis  if  it  happens  on  or  just  before  the  new-moon.  This  would 
be  an  apt  metaphor  for  the  poet  who  was  also  a practising  physician  (vaidya). 

3 Literally  ‘the  black  one’,  a synonym  of  Krsna. 


VAISHNAV  LYRIC  SONGS  AND  NARRATIVE  POETRY  107 


ful  heart  as  Syam3  is  meeting  me.  Fall  down  in  soft 
drizzles,  so  that  I shall  pass  the  night  in  good  cheer. 
The  clouds  ramble  heavily  in  the  sky,  and  the  frogs 
are  beating  drums  as  it  were,  and  from  the  tree  tops 
the  peacocks  cry.  I shall  pass  the  night  in  the  embrace 
of  the  lord  of  the  gods.  In  an  expectation  of  a deeper 
understanding  of  this  love  between  the  two  Basudev 
Ghos  has  taken  a plunge. 


Among  the  followers  of  Nityananda  there  were  two  of  the 
best  known  poets,  Balaramdas  and  Jnanadas.  They  wrote 
mostly  in  Bengali  and  occasionally  in  Brajabuli.  But  they 
has  come  under  the  influence  of  the  injunctions  of  Rup 
Gosvami.  Writing  songs  had  become  in  the  mean  time  an 
accepted  mode  of  literary  expression  for  the  devout  Vaishnavs 
with  literary  bend  or  musical  aptitude. 

Balaram’s  best  poems  include  songs  describing  the 
mother  Yasoda’s  anxious  love  for  Child-Gopala  (Krishna). 
The  following  poem  expresses  the  intensity  of  Radha’s  newly 
awakened  love  for  Krishna. 

His  age  is  young  but  his  behaviour  indicates  maturity. 
He  looks  like  the  god  of  love  made  of  emerald. 
I know  not  who  fashioned  his  body  and  how.  Even 
as  one  looks  on  him,  one  receives  a shower  of  sweetness. 
I am  indeed  undone.  What  a beauty  I have  seen  in 
a dream  ; as  I eat  or  sleep  it  stays  fixed  in  my  heart. 
His  lips  are  red,  his  smiles  are  soft  and  slow  ; by  a side- 
glance  of  his  dancing  eyes  he  does  havoc  with  a girl’s 
home  and  ambition.  My  heart  breaks  when  I look  at 
the  twin  arches  of  his  eye-brows.  Alas,  alas!  Where 
had  been  such  a sportive  lover  all  these  days?  His  gait 
is  slow  and  mincing:  how  can  I say  and  to  whom  what 
my  heart  feels?  Even  a chunk  of  stone  melts  at  a whiff 
from  his  body  ; Balaramdas  says : a touch  is  enough  to 


108  HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 

to  take  away  one’s  senses. 

The  best  poems  of  Jnanadas  express  the  same  emotion, 
echoing  almost  the  same  expressions,  as  the  following 
translation  would  show.  Radha  opens  her  heart  to  a friend — 

Alas!  why  did  I go  to  the  waters  of  the  Kalindl.4 
The  black-skinned  lover  has  tricked  me  into  losing  my 
heart  to  him.  My  eyes  remained  drowned  in  the  flood 
of  his  beauty  ; my  mind  was  lost  in  the  wilderness  of 
his  youthful  charms  ; my  way  back  home  became  inter- 
minable. My  heart  is  breaking  within  ; my  soul  cries  out 
in  pain.  In  the  inscrutable  black  spot  in  the  centre  of 
the  moon-shaped  sandal  paint5  that  he  wore,  the  doll 
of  my  heart  was  entrapped.  A yellow  garment  is 
wrapped  round  his  waist,  and  it  is  tied  with  a girdle. 
The  Creator  has  made  him  the  cause  of  a girl  losing  her 
head.  The  social,  family  and  moral  ties  are  all  about 
to  fall  away,  I am  afraid  ; and  throughout  the  land  this 
my  disgrace  would  be  proclaimed — that  having  once 
been  a chaste  girl  from  a good  family  I have  now  brought 
down  shame  on  two.6  Jnanadas  says:  keep  your  heart 
stout. 


The  next  generation  of  poets  were  largely  the  followers  of 
Narottam  Das  and  Srinivas  Acarya.  Narottam  himself  was 
a good  writer.  To  him  goes  the  credit  of  formulation  and 
standardization  of  the  Klrttan  style  of  music.  Narottam  was 
a rich  man’s  only  son,  and  from  his  early  youth  he  was  averse 
to  the  humdrum  family  life.  As  soon  as  he  could  manage 
he  went  away  to  Brindavan  and  there  he  took  initiation  from 
a disciple  of  Advaita  Acarya.  There  too  he  met  his  future 
colleagues  in  faith  and  propaganda,  Srlnivas  Acarya  and 


4 Another  name  of  the  Yamuna. 

5 Decorative  painting  on  the  forehead. 

* Meaning  the  father’s  and  the  husband’s  family. 


VAISHNAV  LYRIC  SONGS  AND  NARRATIVE  POETRY  109 


Syamananda  Das.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  Narottam  had 
taken  his  directions  from  the  Vaishnav  masters  of  Brindavan 
he  was  never  as  much  influenced  by  their  way  of  thinking  as 
was  Srlnivas.  In  Narottam  there  was  a happy  blend  of  the 
teachings  of  the  Bengal  and  the  Brindavan  schools  of 
Vaishnav  thought.  He  was  a Kayastha  and  was  not  initiated 
in  the  path  of  Vaishnavism  by  some  veteran  of  Brindavan 
but  by  Lokanath,  a disciple  of  Advaita.  Herein  may  be  the 
the  clue  to  his  individual  approach.  The  Gosvamins  of 
Brindavan  did  not  favour  a purely  mystic  approach;  instead, 
they  adopted  the  psychological  formulae  drawn  from  the 
symbol  of  the  love  of  Radha  and  Krsna.  According  to  them 
there  are  only  two  ways  for  the  spiritually-minded:  one, 
the  learned  philosophical  way  and  the  other,  the  common 
ritualistic  way.  Narottam  would  not  go  for  the  first,  so  he 
took  up  the  second.  At  the  same  time  the  mystic  in  him  was 
always  strong.  That  is  why  among  all  his  illustrious  con- 
temporaries only  Narottam  was  able  to  impart  a new  force 
to  Vaishnav  faith  and  poetry,  and  he  has  been  the  best 
remembered  among  them. 

In  later  time  Narottam  was  reckoned  as  a guru  of  the 
Tantrist  school  of  Vaishnavism  and  consequently  a number 
of  very  short  treatises  was  fathered  on  him.  The  genuine 
works  of  Narottam,  besides  the  prayer  poems  and  songs,  are 
a few  short  treatises  on  Vaishnav  devotion  and  practice,  the 
most  important  of  which,  Premabhakticandrika  (Moonbeam 
of  Devotional  Love),  has  not  lost  its  popularity  even  today. 
The  poem  shows  unmistakable  influence  of  Krsnadas’s 
Caitanyacaritamrta.  The  prototype  of  Premabhakticandrika 
was  Ramcandra  Kaviraj’s  Smaranadarpan  (Mirror  of  Re- 
membrance). Ramcandra  was  a good  scholar  and  belonged 
to  a high  family.  His  mother’s  father,  known  as  Yasoraj 
Khan,  was  an  officer  of  Husain  Shah.  Ramcandra  was  at 
first  a worshipper  of  Sakti,  but  at  an  advanced  age  he  came 
under  the  influence  of  Srinivas  Acarya  and  took  initiation 
from  him.  Qualities  of  head  and  heart  won  for  him  the 


110 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


friendship  and  estimation  of  Narottam.  Ramcandra  wrote 
a few  songs  of  which  one  is  of  outstanding  merit.  It  expresses 
Radha’s  agonies  out  of  forbidden  love. 

To  whom  shall  I reveal  the  secret  of  my  heart?  Who 
will  be  convinced?  Mortal  pain  grips  my  vitals.  My 
nerves  are  on  the  edge.  I cannot  remain  for  long  in 
the  company  of  my  seniors  in  the  family  ; my  eyes  are 
ever  filled  with  tears,  there  is  always  goose  flesh  on  my 
limbs.  When  I look  aside  I find  only  darkness.7  When 
I go  to  the  river  with  a friend — well,  it  is  a feeling  that 
cannot  be  described.  The  waters  of  the  Yamuna,  and 
my  long  tresses  loosened:  at  such  a sight  how  can  I 
remain  calm?  I cannot  any  longer  keep  the  honour  of 
my  family  unsullied  ; this  I proclaim  before  all.  Rama- 
candra  says:  The  dark-skinned  lover  is  ever  present 
before  her  mind’s  eye. 

Govindadas  Kaviraj,  the  younger  brother  of  Ramcandra, 
was  the  best  writer  of  Brajabuli  poetry.  Before  he  took 
to  the  Vaishnav  path  Govindadas  was  like  his  brother  a 
Sakti  worshipper,  had  even  written  songs  in  praise  of  Siva 
and  Sakti  ; and,  like  his  brother,  Govindadas  too  became  a 
disciple  of  Srinivas.  Only  one  of  his  Sakta  poems  has  been 
preserved.  Govindadas’s  literary  activity  reached  its  height 
only  after  his  conversion  when  he  had  recovered  from  a grave 
and  protracted  illness.  He  wrote  hundreds  of  lyrical  songs, 
almost  all  of  them  in  Brajabuli.  Govindadas  was  a good 
Sanskrit  scholar,  and  he  utilized  his  Sanskrit  learning  in  the 
cultivation  of  Bengali  poetry.  He  had  a fine  ear  for  rhythm 
and  assonance,  he  had  thoroughly  imbibed  the  spirit  of  the 
secular  poetry  in  Sanskrit  and  Prakrit  and  mastered  the 
ornate  style  of  Maithil  and  Brajabuli  lyric  poetry.  He  was 
acclaimed  as  the  best  Vaishnav  poet  of  the  day  and  Jlva 
Gosvamin  the  then  leader  of  the  Vaishnav  world,  bestowed 

7 There  is  double  meaning  here : ‘Syama’  meaning  ‘dark,  darkness’ 
or  Krsna. 


VAISHNAV  LYRIC  SONGS  AND  NARRATIVE  POETRY  111 


on  him  the  title  of  ‘Kaviraj’  (king  of  poets). 

Govindadas’s  songs  are  resonant  with  the  harmony  of 
sound  and  sense,  although  they  are  lacking  in  variety  as  well 
as  in  depth  of  feeling.  In  a way  Govindadas’s  success  led  to 
a speedy  degeneration  of  Vaishnav  poetry  as  the  direction 
of  appeal  was  diverted  from  the  heart  to  the  ear.  The 
succeeding  generations  of  writers  of  Brajabuli  songs  tried  only 
to  imitate  him. 

As  a specimen  of  Govindadas’s  poetry  one  of  his  best 
poems  is  given  below.  Unfortunately  a translation  cannot 
convey  the  music  of  the  original. 

On  a dark,  windy  and  rainy  night  Radha  is  about  to 
slip  out  from  home  in  search  of  her  lover,  and  her  girl  friend 
tries  to  dissuade  her  from  this  precarious  venture — 

To  be  outside  of  the  house  there  is  the  stout  door  to 
negotiate,  and  the  muddy  and  slippery  road  makes 
walking  difficult.  Besides  there  is  a tremendous  storm 
raging.  Can  your  blue  sari  resist  the  downpour?  My 
beauty,  how  can  you  now  go  out  to  meet  the  lover  when 
he  is  staying  on  the  other  side  of  the  Manasa-gaiiga?  At 
every  moment  there  is  thunder  cracking  and  booming, 
and  it  would  blast  the  drum  of  the  ear.  In  all  directions 
lightning  flashes  incessantly,  which  would  dazzle  the 
eyes  and  make  them  blind.  In  spite  of  this,  O lovely 
lady,  if  you  would  still  be  leaving  home  you  would  be 
only  throwing  away  your  ,life  for  the  sake  of  love. 
Govindadas  says:  there  is  nothing  to  consider  here. 
Can  a dart  flung  out  be  ever  sped  back? 

Govindadas  wrote  a short  play  in  Sanskrit  dealing  with 
some  of  the  love  episodes  of  Radha  and  Krishna.  His  Sanskrit 
songs  undoubtedly  and  some  of  his  vernacular  songs  probably 
featured  in  this  play,  Sangitamadhava-ndtaka.  The  work  is 
known  only  from  a few  citations. 

There  was  another  poet  named  Govindadas  who  also  was 
a disciple  of  Srinivas.  This  second  Govindadas  was  a 


112 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


brahman  whereas  the  first  Govindadas  was  a Vaidya.  The 
brahman  poet,  Govindadas  Cakravarti,  wrote  mostly  in 
Bengali.  His  diction  is  easy  and  unostentatious,  and  some 
of  his  songs  breathe  the  sincerity  of  love’s  distress. 

There  were  not  a few  poets  with  only  one  or  two  poems 
each  to  their  credit.  But  some  of  these  poems  are  of  out- 
standing quality.  One  such  is  the  following  song  by  a poet 
who  signed  himself  as  Kavivallabh  (beloved  of  poets).  It 
echoes  the  insatiable  hunger  of  high  passion  and  unfathom- 
able love. 

My  friend,  do  you  want  to  know  my  feelings?  When 
I think  of  my  love  and  passion  it  feels  fresh  every 
moment.  From  the  day  of  my  birth  I have  been  feeding 
on  that  beauty,  but  my  eyes  never  have  their  fill. 
Millions  of  ages  I have  held  him  close,  heart  against 
heart,  lips  against  lips,  but  still  the  fire  of  the  passion 
is  not  quenched.  The  divine  sweetness  of  his  speech 
I have  enjoyed  so  often  but  it  always  gives  fresh  joy  to 
hear  him  speak.  So  many  springtime  nights  I have  spent 
in  rapture,  still  I cannot  come  to  the  end  of  love’s  delight. 
There  are  so  many  experienced  people  talk  glibly  of  love 
but  true  appreciation  I find  not  in  any  of  them.  Says 
Kavivallabh : to  have  the  fire  of  love  quenched  falls  but 
to  one  among  a hundred  thousand. 

Long  narrative  poems  on  the  Krishna  legend,  with  or  without 
lyric  songs  interspersed,  were  written  by  about  a score  of 
the  sixteenth  century  writers.  Some  of  them  were  direct 
followers  of  Chaitanya  or  their  disciples.  Among  the  former 
were  Govind  Acarya,  Raghu  Pandit,  Paramananda  Gupta 
and  Madhav  Acarya  ; and  among  the  latter  Krsnadas,  ‘Kavi- 
sekhar’,  Syamdas  and  others.  Raghu  Pandit  was  a pro- 
fessional reciter  (‘Kathaka’)  of  the  Bhagavata,  and  so  he  was 
known  as  ‘Bhagavatacarya’.  His  Krsnaprematarangim  (River 


VAISHNAV  LYRIC  SONGS  AND  NARRATIVE  POETRY  11$ 


of  Divine  Love)  is  an  adaptation  of  the  Bhagavata  chapter  by 
chapter.  Madhav  Acarya’s  Srlkrsnamangal  is  the  biggest  of 
such  poems.  It  narrates  the  Krsna  legend  in  full  as  in  the 
Bhagavata.  But  unlike  most  of  the  contemporary  writers  on 
the  theme  he  did  not  fail  to  incorporate  the  amorous  episodes 
of  popular  origin  such  as  the  toll  collection  and  ferry  in- 
cidents. But  these  episodes  are  not  fully  integrated  to  the 
theme  as  in  ‘Badu’  Candidas’s  poem  but  remain  as  mere 
interludes.  Madhav  made  Badai  not  as  a go-between  but  as 
a dutiful  chaperone  of  the  young  girl.  Madhav’s  diction  is 
simple  and  easy.  The  lyrical  element  is  proportionate  to 
the  narrative.  On  the  whole  the  poem  fully  deserves  the 
popularity  which  it  has  held  for  centimes.  The  following 
would  illustrate  the  descriptive  power  of  Madhav  Acarya: 

Radha  and  her  friends  are  on  their  way  to  Mathura  to 
sell  their  commodities.  They  came  to  the  bank  of  the 
Yamuna  and  were  accosted  by  Krishna  waiting  as  the 
boatman.  Krsna  speaks  to  Radha — 

My  boat  is  a nice  one  ; whoever  gets  into  it  willingly 
pays  sixty-four  scores  of  cowrie.  Your  hips  are  heavy 
and  your  breasts  are  bulging  ; you  alone  weigh  as  heavy 
as  ten  passengers.  Look  here,  you  cowherd  girl.  I 
know  you  are  a stiff  proposition.  Fix  the  fare,  come 
quick  and  get  into  the  boat.  Your  commodities  that 
are  to  be  carried  in  my  boat  are  indeed  precious,  but 
what  shall  I get  out  of  it?  Think  over  and  offer  a fair 
sum  so  that  there  will  be  no  haggling  afterwards.  This 
is  my  livelihood.  You  are  a young  lady  and  I am  a young 
boatman  ; the  time  is  passing  in  useless  pleasantries. 
Somebody  is  calling  me  from  the  other  bank  ; I am 
detained  uselessly.  By  this  time  I could  have  made  three 
trips.  First  give  me  some  cream,  butter,  milk  and  curd 
to  eat  so  that  I may  get  some  strength  for  plying  the  boat. 
Madhav  the  brahman  says:  the  lord  of  the  Yadus  is  a 
veteran  lover  ; his  talks  hide  his  intention. 

8 


114 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


‘Kavisekhar’  was  the  pen-name  of  Devaklnandan  Simha 
who  wrote  in  Sanskrit  as  well  as  in  Bengali.  His  Sanskrit 
works  include  an  ‘epic’  as  well  as  a play  on  the  Krsna  legend. 
His  Bengali  works  on  the  same  topic  comprise  a number  of 
lyric  songs  and  a narrative  poem.  The  last,  entitled  Gopal- 
vijay  (Triumph  of  the  Cowherd  Boy),  shows  rather  close 
similarity  to  the  poem  of  ‘Badu’  Candidas  in  regard  to  the 
amorous  episodes.  His  apology  for  including  these  erotic 
non-Puranic  stories  was  that  he  had  a command  in  dream 
from  Krishna  to  do  so. 

To  the  second  half  of  the  sixteenth  century  belonged 
Govindamangal  of  Syamadas  who  called  himself  ‘the  dis- 
tressed’ ( Duhkhi ).  The  story  follows  the  pattern  of  Kavi- 
sekhar’s  work.  The  style  is  simple  and  subdued.  There  are 
occasional  flashes  of  genuine  poetry. 


THE  TRADITION  OF  COURT 
PATRONAGE 


So  far  as  actual  evidence  goes  the  first  lyric  poems  or  songs 
in  Brajabuli  written  in  Bengal  came  from  the  pen  of  persons 
enjoying  kingly  support.  The  oldest  known  of  such  poems  was 
written  by  a court  pundit  (raja-pandita)  of  Dhanyamanikya 
of  Tipperah  (reigned  1490-1526).  The  next  song  belongs  to 
Yasoraj  Khan  (who  was  the  same  person  as  Damodar  Sen  of 
Srikhanda)  an  employee  of  Husain  Shah.  Both  Husain  Shah 
and  his  sons  Nasrat  and  Giyasuddln  are  mentioned  in  lyric 
poems  by  their  court  poets  (or  poet)  who  signed  as  Kaviranjan 
or  Kavisekhar.  At  the  court  of  Naranarayan  of  Coochbehar 
we  find  Saiikardev  and  Dhiresvar  writing  Brajabuli  songs  in 
honour  of  the  king.  Husain  Shah’s  grandson  Firuz  had  asked 
his  court-poet  Sridhar,  a brahman,  to  write  a poem  on  the 
Vidya-Sundar  story. 

As  has  been  already  mentioned  the  two  earliest 
Mahabharata  narratives  in  Bengali  were  written  under  the 
patronage  of  two  provincial  satraps  under  Husain  Shah.  The 
third  poem  of  the  sort  (a  short  version  of  the  Asvamedha 
story  from  the  Jaiminiya-Savihita,  like  SrTkara  Nandi’s  poem) 
was  written  by  an  administrative  officer  of  Husain  Shah, 
Ramcandra  Khan.  When  Chaitanya  first  went  to  Puri  after 
his  initiation  into  religious  mendicancy,  Ramcandra  Khan 
who  was  then  military  governor  of  the  lower  Gangetic  region, 
helped  him  in  safely  crossing  over  the  Bengal-Orissa 
boundary.  Ramcandra’s  poem  was  written  in  1532.  It  is 
purely  narrative.  There  is  an  occasional  touch  of  refreshing 
realism.  Ramcandra  seems  to  have  written  a complete 
Mahabharata  poem  in  Bengali.  The  third  poem  on  the 
Jaimiriiya-Samhita  was  written  by  Raghunath,  a brahman, 
sometime  about  1567.  The  poet  read  his  poem  at  the  court 
of  Mukundadev,  the  last  independent  king  of  Orissa.  The 
popularity  of  the  Jaiminlya  Asvamedha  story  was  unabated 


116 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


at  the  courts  of  semi-independent  rulers  and  zamindars 
during  the  seventeenth  and  the  early  eighteenth  century. 
Under  the  patronage  of  the  Malla  kings  of  Bishnupur  and 
of  other  zamindars  on  the  borderlands  of  Bengal  several 
persons  wrote  poems  on  the  theme. 

By  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  the  court  of 
Kamata  (Coochbehar)  had  built  up  something  like  a literary 
tradition.  It  began  with  the  accession  of  Visvasimha  (1522) 
who  began  a thorough  aryanization  of  the  court  entourage . 
His  eldest  son  Samarasimha  was  a patron  of  Bengali  poetry 
during  his  father’s  lifetime.  At  his  request  the  court  poet 
Pltambar  rendered  into  Bengali  verse  the  stories  from 
Mdrkandeya-Purana  in  1530  and  fourteen  years  later  he  took 
the  Mahabhdrata  story  for  his  N aladamayanticarita  (Activities 
of  Nala  and  DamayantI).  The  other  known  work  of 
Pltambar  is  an  adaptation  of  the  Krishna  story  from  the 
Bhagavata.  Visvasimha  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Nara- 
narayan  (reigned  1554-87).  Naranarayan’s  younger  brother 
and  Commander-in-Chief  Sukladhvaj  (d.  1571)  was  almost  the 
joint  king.  The  two  brothers  were  liberal  patrons  of  poetry 
and  scholarship.  The  vernacular  poetry  in  lower  Assam 
which  was  initiated  in  the  court  of  Kamarup  and  Kachar 
thrived  under  the  patronage  of  the  Kamata  court. 

Saiikardev  (d.  1568)  the  pioneer  of  the  new  Vaishnavism 
in  Assam  completed  the  Ramayana  poem  of  Madhav  KandalT 
(written  at  the  instance  of  Mahamanikya,  the  Varaha  king 
of  Kamarup  and  Kachar)  by  adding  the  Uttara-Kanda. 
Sankar’s  grandfather  was  an  officer  of  the  Varaha  king.  His 
native  village  was  on  the  bank  of  the  Brahmaputra.  Sankar’s 
unorthodox  social  activities  were  too  much  for  the  brahman 
orthodoxy  of  Assam,  and  he  had  to  seek  shelter  under  king 
Naranarayan  of  Kamata.  Almost  all  of  Sahkar’s  vernacular 
works  were  written  here.  Sahkar’s  chief  disciple  Madhavadev 
also  enjoyed  the  protection  and  patronage  of  the  Kamata 
court.  Madhav’s  vernacular  works  include  a book  of  devo- 
tional poems  and  songs  and  two  narrative  poems  on  the 


THE  TRADITION  OF  COURT  PATRONAGE 


117 


Krishna  story. 

The  court  of  Naranarayan  and  Sukladhvaj  was  the 
gathering  place  of  poets  and  pundits  from  all  parts  of  the 
country.  So  says  one  of  the  court  poets  Aniruddha: 

All  glory  to  Naranarayan  the  greatest  of  kings  ; like  him 
there  is  no  other  king.  Devotional  and  moral  treatises, 
Puranas,  the  Mahabharata,  and  all — he  talks  about  them 
day  and  night,  seated  in  his  court.  All  the  pundits  who 
had  been  in  Gaud  and  in  Kamrup  are  now  established 
in  his  court  of  learning  and  culture.  There  the  poets 
always  talk  only  of  books  and  scriptures.  He  has 
accepted  me  also  and  has  given  me  a corner  seat  in 
that  court. 

Sukladhvaj  was  especially  interested  in  poetry,  Sanskrit 
and  vernacular.  At  his  instance  one  of  the  court  poets 
Aniruddha  (who  bore  the  title  of  his  office  ‘Ramasarasvatl’) 
rendered  into  Bengali  verse  the  story  of  the  several  books  of 
the  Mahabharata.  In  the  beginning  of  the  poem  Aniruddha 
thus  describes  the  inducements  offered  to  him  by  his 
patrons : 

Sukladhvaj,  the  younger  brother  of  the  king,  and  crown 
prince,  is  deeply  wise  and  he  achieves  wonders.  He 
commanded  me  with  great  pleasure — ‘Do  you  render  the 
Bharata  into  “Payara”  verse.  In  my  home  there  are 
complete  codices  of  the  Bharata  ; you  can  take  them  to 
your  home  ; I give  them  all  to  you.’  After  saying  this 
he  ordered  pack  bullocks  and  sent  the  book  loads  over 
to  me.  Articles  of  food  he  supplied  in  plenty  ; he 
appointed  men  and  maids  to  serve  me.  And  I took  this 
his  command  on  my  head,  and  holding  the  two  feet  of 
Krsna  close  to  my  heart  I now  write  the  lines  of  verse, 
unequalled,  and  very  sweet,  which  are  called  the 
Vana-parva. 

Sukladhvaj  wrote — that  is,  some  pundit  wrote  for  him — 


118 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


an  elaborate  commentary  on  Jayadeva’s  Gitagovinda.  This 
commentary  was  the  basis  of  Aniruddha’s  poem  Jayadeva 
which  narrates  the  theme  of  Jayadeva’s  lyrics  in  the  context 
of  the  Bhagavata  story. 

The  Kamata  (later  Coochbehar)  court  never  withdrew 
patronage  to  pundits  and  poets  in  the  subsequent  centuries. 
The  successors  of  Naranarayan  and  Sukladhvaj  were  all  lovers 
of  the  epic  and  Purana  tales.  So  their  court  poets  in  the 
seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries  were  mainly  occupied 
in  rendering  these  tales  into  narrative  verse.  The  Maha- 
bharata  stories  were  handled  by  about  a score  of  poets,  and 
about  a dozen  of  them  were  occupied  in  the  adaptation  of 
the  Ramayana.  The  following  Puranas  received  the  atten- 
tion of  the  vernacular  poets  of  the  court:  Brahmavaivarta, 
Dharma,  Markandeya,  Naradlya,  Nrsimha,  Padma,  Siva, 
Skanda,  and  Visnu. 

Other  chiefs  and  rulers  of  North-east  and  South-east 
Bengal  emulated  the  Kamata  court  in  lending  support  to 
writers  who  clothed  the  Vaishnav  Puranic  stories  in  the 
vernacular  garb.  Govindamanikya  of  Tipperah  appointed 
his  court  poet  ‘Siddhantasarasvatl’  to  translate  into  Bengali 
verse  the  Brhat-Ndradiya-Purdna  (1669).  He  was  so  pleased 
with  the  result  that  he  made  the  members  of  his  court  and 
some  of  his  prominent  subjects  have  copies  of  the  poem 
transcribed  for  their  own  use.  Hemasarasvati,  the  son  of  a 
minister  of  Durlabhanarayan  of  Darang,  rendered  many 
Puranic  stories  into  Bengali  narrative  verse.  Bhavamnath, 
the  author  of  a narrative  poem  based  on  the  Adhyatma- 
ramayana,  was  a court  poet  of  Jagatmanikya.  While  engaged 
in  writing  the  poem  he  received  a remuneration  of  ten  rupees 
a day. 

Some  of  the  ladies  of  these  ruling  houses  also  were 
patrons  of  letters.  Candraprabha  the  widowed  wife  of 
Tamradhvaj  of  Kachar  was  one  such.  At  her  instance 
Bhuvanesvar  Vacaspati  wrote  in  1730  Naradlrasamrit 
(Nectarian  Essence  of  Naradlya),  a metrical  adaptation  of 


THE  TRADITION  OF  COURT  PATRONAGE 


119 


Naradlya  Purana.  Since  then  the  Kachar  court  became 
thoroughly  Vaishnav  and  literary-minded.  Govindanarayan 
(reigned  1813-31)  the  last  king  of  Kachar  was  himself  a good 
writer  of  Vaishnav  songs  and  he  has  two  books  of  songs  to 
his  credit. 

The  literary  tradition  of  Chittagong  initiated  by  Paragal 
Khan  and  his  son  was  taken  up  a century  later  by  the  court 
of  Arrakan  when  it  came  under  the  cultural  influence  of 
Bengal.  The  activities  of  the  court  poets  of  Arrakan  who 
were  all  Muslims  are  dealt  with  in  a later  chapter. 

Semi-independent  chiefs  of  South-west  Bengal  which 
was  practically  outside  the  ambit  of  the  Moghul  rule  extended 
perfunctory  help  to  Bengali  poets  and  scholars  in  distress. 
None  of  them,  except  the  biggest  and  the  most  important  of 
them,  the  Malla  rulers  of  Bishnupur,  attempted  to  build  up 
a literary  and  scholastic  tradition  in  their  court.  Culture  by 
way  of  Vaishnavism  first  crossed  the  lawless  boundaries  of  the 
Malla  chiefs  when  Srlnivas  Acarya  won  the  heart  of  Blr 
Hambir  the  then  king  of  Bishnupur.  In  less  than  a century 
Vaishnavism  prevailed  throughout  a vast  territory  of  jungles 
and  hills  which  was  sparsely  populated  by  a semi-barbaric 
and  fierce  people.  The  hospitality  of  the  court  of  Bishnupur 
was  open  to  all  Vaishnavs,  mendicants  or  otherwise.  Towards 
the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century  a cultural  tradition  was 
fully  built  up  at  the  Malla  court.  Magnificent  temples  in 
brick  were  built  by  the  court  architects,  and  the  court  poets, 
carrying  the  general  title  of  ‘Kavicandra’  (Moon  of  a Poet), 
wrote  Rdmayana  and  Mahabharata  poems  in  Bengali  and 
treated  the  Krishna  legend  variously  in  lyric  and  narrative 
verse. 

The  culmination  was  reached  during  the  rule  of 
Gopalasimha  (1712-48).  He  was  a most  staunch  Vaishnav, 
and  he  wanted  all  his  people  to  be  so.  He  compelled  his 
subjects  to  take  the  name  of  God  as  a daily  ritual  in  the 
evening.  Delinquency,  if  detected,  incurred  heavy  punish- 
ment. It  was  also  a law  of  the  land  that  on  the  eleventh  day 


120 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


(‘Ekadasi’)  of  the  fortnight  (which  is  sacred  to  a Vaishnav)  no 
one  except  the  sick,  the  nursing  mother  and  the  child,  could 
take  food  in  the  day  time,  and  fodder  was  prohibited  in  the 
king’s  stable  and  cowpen.  Gopalasimha’s  charity  reached  all 
and  sundry,  and  so  many  writers  sang  his  praise.  One  of 
his  court  poets  wrote  a Krsnamahgal  poem  for  him.  The 
senior  court  poet  (‘Kavicandra’)  Saiikar  Cakravarti  was  a 
prolific  writer.  The  queens  and  princesses  of  Bishnupur 
were  among  the  best  educated  ladies  in  Eastern  India. 

The  literary  patronage  of  the  Malla  court  was  emulated 
by  some  of  the  neighbouring  chiefs  and  zamindars.  At  the 
instance  of  Ananta-Dhaval  of  Dhalbhum,  his  court  poet 
Jagannath  Sen  translated  Hitopadesa  into  Bengali  verse  some 
time  at  the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

The  first  zamindar  of  North  Bengal  to  appear  as  a 
patron  of  Bengali  poetry  was  Ramakrsna  of  Santol  (Pabna) 
who  flourished  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
Nityananda  Acarya,  entitled  ‘Adbhutacarya’  (Master  of  the 
Adbhuta),  who  wrote  a Ramayana  poem  based  on  the  version 
of  the  Adbhuta  Ramayana,  was  his  court  poet.  Nityananda’s 
poem  was  very  popular  in  North  Bengal  and  much  of  it  has 
been  incorporated  in  the  vulgate  text  of  Krttivas’s  poems. 
Another  protege  of  Ramakrsna,  Srikrsnajlvan  Das  wrote 
a Candimahgal  poem. 


NARRATIVE  POETRY  ON  CANDI 

AND  MANASA 


Outside  Vaishnav  poetry  the  most  significant  work  of  the 
sixteenth  century  is  Candimangal  by  Mukundaram  Chakra- 
vartl.  The  oldest  writer  of  such  poems  by  reputation  was 
Manik  Datta,  and  Mukundaram  mentions  that  he  based  his 
own  work  on  the  ‘standardized  narrative’  (‘Damra’)  of  Manik 
Datta.  But  the  poem  of  Manik  Datta  as  known  to  us  in  a 
late  eighteenth  century  manuscript  from  North  Bengal  cannot 
have  been  the  work  which  inspired  Mukundaram.  Besides 
its  other  late  features  there  are  clear  references  to  Chaitanya 
and  his  faith.  The  poem,  however,  is  not  altogether  devoid 
of  such  materials  as  are  obviously  old. 

The  author  of  this  Candimangal  cannot  be  the  old 
Manik  Datta  mentioned  by  Mukundaram.  The  traditional 
story  of  the  ‘original’  Manik  Datta  who  appears  to  have  in- 
troduced the  ritual  song  of  Candi  in  South-west  Bengal  (or 
Kalinga),  is  thus  given  in  the  poem  of  our  (second) 
Manik  Datta: 

On  Candx’s  victory  over  the  Asuras  her  supremacy  was 
accepted  by  the  gods.  After  a time  the  goddess  wanted  that 
men  should  worship  her  by  celebrating  her  deeds  in  song 
and  dance.  Narada  advised  her  to  reveal  her  ritual  to 
Manik  Datta,  a deformed  man,  deaf  and  lame.  In  the  guise 
of  a very  old  woman  Candi  came  to  Manik  Datta  when 
he  was  in  deep  slumber.  She  told  him  to  formulate  her 
popular  ritual  and  to  write  her  story  in  verse.  She  assured 
him  that  his  two  sons  Raghu  and  Raghav  would  be  his 
assistants.  She  then  passed  a divine  hand  over  the  sleep- 
ing man,  and  his  deformities  vanished.  The  goddess  dis- 
appeared after  leaving  the  book  of  her  ritual  at  the  top  of 
the  bed.  On  awakening  in  the  morning  Manik  Datta  found 
himself  a new  man.  As  the  book  of  ritual  given  to  him  by 
Candi  was  written  in  Sanskrit  which  he  did  not  know  he 


122 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


had  to  take  the  help  of  Srlkanta  Pandit.  The  pundit 
explained  to  him  the  Sanskrit  verses  and  Manik  Datta 
rendered  them  into  Bengali  verse.  The  poem  was  com- 
plete in  some  three  hundred  lyric  poems  (‘Nacadl’).  He  now 
set  up  a party  to  sing  and  chant  the  song  publicly.  Manik 
Datta  himself  was  the  main  singer  (‘Gayak’),  his  sons  Raghu 
and  Raghav  acted  as  the  supporting  singers  (‘Pali’),  and 
Srikanta  Pandit  played  the  drum  ( mrdanga ).  The  party 
went  to  Kaliiiga  and  sang  and  chanted  it  from  door  to  door 
and  it  became  widely  popular.  The  king  of  Kalihga  came  to 
learn  that  a new  mode  of  worship  by  song  and  dance  was. 
distracting  his  men  from  their  duty.  Manik  Datta  was. 
summoned  to  account  for  his  peculiar  activities.  He  told 
the  king  his  story  but  the  king  refused  to  believe  that  Candl 
would  care  to  offer  grace  to  such  a petty  fellow,  and  he  had 
the  poet  imprisoned  as  a suspect.  At  night  the  goddess  came 
to  the  sleeping  king  with  a ferocious  mien  and  told  him  to 
release  the  poet  in  the  morning.  After  this  incident  the 
king  became  the  best  patron  of  Manik. 

The  story  is  entirely  legendary.  But  there  might  have 
been  some  mythological  core.  It  appears  that  Manik  was 
not  a brahman  (as  all  later  writers  of  such  poetry  were)  and 
that  this  cult  originated  in  or  came  via  Kalihga. 

Candlmangal  by  Madhav  the  brahman  (‘dvija’)  was 
written  in  1579  when,  according  to  the  poet,  Akbar,  an 
incarnation  of  the  epic  hero  Arjuna,  was  the  master  of  Bengal. 
(This  is  the  first  mention  of  a Mughal  ruler  in  Bengali 
literature.)  The  poet  says  he  was  a native  of  Satgaon  on  the 
bank  of  the  Hooghly,  but  there  is  some  doubt  about  the 
authenticity  of  this  statement.  All  the  manuscripts  of  the 
poem  (the  oldest  dated  only  1759)  came  from  remote  East 
Bengal,  mainly  from  Chittagong,  and  none  from  West 
Bengal.  There  can  be  only  one  explanation,  viz.  that  since 
the  poet  or  his  family  had  migrated  to  East  Bengal  and  the 
poem  was  written  there,  there  was  no  chance  of  its  being 
known  in  West  Bengal. 


125 


NARRATIVE  POETRY  ON  CANDl  AND  MANASA 

Madhav’s  poem  is  a comparatively  short  work.  The 
introductory  story  of  Siva  and  Sati,  his  marriage  with 
Parvati,  and  their  domestic  life  are  absent.  Instead  there  is 
the  very  short  episode  of  the  goddess’s  victory  over  the  demon 
Mahgal  accounting  for  her  name  Marigal-Candi.  The  story 
of  Kalaketu  is  much  shorter  than  the  story  of  DhanapatL 
The  canvas  of  the  poem  being  narrow  there  was  little  room 
for  the  development  of  the  characters. 

There  is  a narrative  poem  (Gan  gam  a n gal)  on  the  story 
of  the  Gaiiga  and  her  descent  on  the  earth,  written  by  one 
Madhav,  also  a brahman.  This  poet  seems  to  have  been 
a follower  of  Chaitanya’s  faith.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  the 
colophons  of  the  two  works  bearing  the  signature  of  Madhav 
the  brahman  are  often  identical  there  is  no  reason  to  assume 
identity  of  authorship. 

Candimangal  of  Mukundaram  Cakravarti  ‘Kavikankana’ 
superseded  the  earlier  works  (if  any)  and  forestalled  any 
serious  later  attempt.  It  is  a work  substantial  in  volume  and 
representative  in  character,  and  it  served  as  a model  to  be 
followed  by  all  the  later  writers  of  ‘Mahgal’  poetry  in  West 
Bengal.  By  prefacing  his  poem  with  an  autobiographical 
account  Mukundaram  started  a vogue  among  the  narrative 
poets  of  West  Bengal  which  replaced  the  earlier  dream 
excuse  by  a manifestation  of  the  divinity  commanding  its 
celebration  in  poetry  and  song. 

Mukundaram  belonged  to  a brahman  family  at  Damunya 
(now  in  the  southern  border  of  the  district  of  Burdwan)  in 
West  Bengal,  depehding  on  the  produce  of  a few  acres  of 
ancestral  land.  During  the  critical  days  when  the  Pathan 
power  was  about  to  give  way  to  the  arms  of  Sher  Shah  in  West 
Bengal  the  agrarian  economy  of  West  Bengal  was  almost 
completely  upset.  The  old  Pathan  and  Hindu  zamindars 
were  being  deprived  of  their  possessions  which  were  being 
given  to  Afghan  chiefs  and  many  of  their  tenants  who  could 
not  produce  any  documentary  evidence  suddenly  found 
themselves  landless.  The  Mughal  administration  brought 


124 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


revenue  and  land  settlement  officers  from  outside  the  pro- 
vince and  so  they  had  little  understanding  of  the  situation 
and  no  sympathy  for  the  luckless.  The  new  rulers  created 
new  zamindars  who  wanted  to  grab  as  much  land  and  collect 
as  much  rent  as  they  could.  Mukundaram  was  one  of  the 
luckless.  His  ancestral  inheritance,  a few  acres  of  cultivated 
land,  had  been  ample  for  the  simple  needs  of  his  family  for 
some  seven  generations.  Being  a sub-tenancy  of  a Hindu 
zamindar  who  was  loyal  to  the  house  of  Husain  Shah  and  was 
now  in  disfavour,  Mukundaram’s  land  was  confiscated.  But 
he  was  not  alone  to  suffer  thus.  The  distress  that  was  then 
common  to  the  people  is  thus  feelingly  described  by  him : 

Glory  to  Raja  Mansing,  a bee  at  the  lotus  feet  of 
Visnu,  who  is  now  on  the  march  from  Gaud  and 
Bengal  to  Orissa.  But  during  (those)  days  of  an 
impious  king  the  land  was  bestowed  (as  a jagir)  on 
Mamud  Sarif,  and  Rayzada  who  became  the  revenue 
minister  was  hostile  to  traders  and  merchants  and  was 
an  enemy  of  brahmans  and  Vaishnavs.  The  length  of 
areas  were  measured  diagonally ; a ‘bigha’  was  com- 
puted at  fifteen  ‘kathas’  i1  and  people’s  protests  were 
not  heeded.  The  collector  was  as  relentless  as  a 
messenger  of  Death : he  recorded  barren  land  as  fertile, 
and  without  giving  any  help  he  exacted  a primium. 
The  cashier  was  as  unscrupulous  as  the  devil,  and  he 
deducted  a discount  of  two  annas  and  a half  for  a rupee 
and  charged  an  interest  of  a pice  per  rupee  per  day. 
The  toll  collectors  were  cheats  and  rascals : they  imposed 
fines  on  persons  for  commodities  belonging  to  others  ; 
they  committed  robbery  in  broad  daylight.  The  other 
officers  were  the  most  vicious  of  the  lot  ; they  were  but 
leeches  in  sucking  the  sap  of  the  people  ; they  carried 
away  things  before  the  eyes  of  the  owners.  The  local 


Twenty  ‘kathas’  make  a ‘bigha’  (about  one-third  of  an  acre). 


125 


NARRATIVE  POETRY  ON  CANDI  AND  MANASA 

officer  was  a good-for-nothing  fellow.  Labour  could  not 
be  hired  for  love  or  money.  Nobody  would  buy  paddy 
' or  cattle.  My  lord  Goplnath  NandT,  as  ill  luck  would 
have  it,  suffered  imprisonment ; there  was  no  chance 
of  his  release.  At  every  door  a bailiff  stood  close  guard 
lest  the  defaulter  should  run  away,  and  the  people, 
cleaned  of  their  store  of  crops,  were  ready  to  sell  their 
tools  and  essential  furnitures,  but  a rupee  was  worth 
only  ten  annas  and  there  were  no  buyers  even  for  paddy 
or  cattle. 

On  the  advice  of  his  friendly  neighbours  Mukundaram 
with  his  wife,  infant  son  and  a younger  brother  (and 
probably  also  with  a friend  of  the  family)  left  the  ancestral 
home  to  seek  his  fortune  in  the  south  outside  the  Afghan 
dominion,  where  a brahman  settler  was  not  wholly  unwel- 
come. A few  miles  away  from  home  they  fell  victim  to  a 
cheat  and  lost  the  small  funds  in  their  possession.  Immediate 
disaster  was  averted  by  the  prompt  hospitality  offered  by 
a charitable  man  of  the  locality.  Mukundaram  has  not  failed 
to  mention  the  names  of  both  the  robber  and  the  charitable 
man.  After  a stay  of  three  days  the  poet  and  his  family  were 
again  on  the  move  in  a south-westerly  course  and  crossing 
over  some  four  or  five  rivers  and  covering  a good  distance 
they  reached  the  outskirts  of  a village  on  a fateful  morning, 
thoroughly  exhausted  in  mind  and  body.  The  day  was  hot 
and  they  sat  down  for  a few  hours  in  the  meagre  shelter  of  a 
drying  tank.  The  poet  had  his  bath  without  the  usual  rubbing 
with  oil  and  then  performed  his  daily  worship  of  the  family 
deity  Gopala  he  was  carrying  with  him,  but  the  only  offering 
he  could  manage  were  some  water  lilies  in  bloom  and  a piece 
of  their  root.  For  them  there  was  only  the  water  of  the  tank 
to  feed  and  the  child  was  crying  for  rice.  Mukundaram  sat 
huddled  in  a corner  and  was  dozing  when  he  dreamt  that 
his  mother  came  to  him  and  took  his  head  on  her  lap.  Then 
she  changed  into  the  goddess  Candi  and  giving  him  blessings 


126 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


asked  him  to  celebrate  her  in  song.  This  happy  dream 
heartened  the  poet.  This  happened  in  the  Saka  year  1 166 
(a.d.  1544).  The  refugees  then  struck  camp  and  crossing  orer 
the  Silai  came  to  Adada  (between  Chandrakona  and  Khirpai 
in  Ghatal,  Midnapore)  where  the  peregrination  ended. 
Mukundaram  approached  Bahkuda  Ray  the  brahman  ruling- 
chief  who  forthwith  came  to  the  help  of  the  destitute  family 
and  appointed  Mukundaram  as  tutor  and  companion  of  his 
young  son  Raghunath. 

The  security  of  a settled  life  made  the  poet  forgetful  of 
his  promise  made  to  the  goddess  in  dream  although  his  old 
companion  reminded  him  occasionally.  A mishap  in  the 
family  ultimately  awakened  Mukundaram  to  his  remissness 
and  no  time  was  now  lost  in  writing  the  poem.  This 
happened  during  the  regime  of  Raghunath  Ray  (reigned 
1573-1603)  the  son  and  successor  of  Bahkuda.  The  men- 
tion of  Mansingh  as  on  march  to  Orissa  fixes  the  terminal 
date  of  composition  as  1589.  The  poem  was  chanted  and 
sung  at  the  instance  of  Raghunath  who  was  highly  pleased 
with  the  composition  and  its  recital.  In  the  old  traditional 
way  he  awarded  the  poet  a pair  of  bangles2  and  other  orna- 
ments, a pair  of  clothes  and  turban  and  a riding  horse.  The 
singers  also  were  suitably  rewarded. 

Mukundaram’s  poem  is  in  three  parts.  The  first  part 
stands  as  an  independent  poem.  It  deals  with  the  Puranic 
story  of  Siva,  of  his  first  wife  Sati  and  of  his  second 
wife  Parvati  (Gauri,  Durga,  or  Candl).  Much  of  its  matter 
Game  from  indigenous  folk  poetry  ; for  instance  the  mar- 
riage ceremony  of  Siva  and  Parvati,  Siva  continuing  to 
live  with  his  father-in-law’s  family,  and  the  poverty- 
stricken  and  unpleasant  home-life  of  the  divine  couple. 
'This  part  may  have  been  written  as  an  independent 
^Sivayana’  poem  when  the  poet  had  not  left  home  and  had 
been  performing  the  daily  worship  of  the  village  deity.  In 


2 Whence  the  title  ‘Kavikankan’ . 


NARRATIVE  POETRY  ON  CANDI  AND  MANASA  127 

the  treatment  of  the  Siva  story  Mukundaram  was  closely 
imitated  by  the  iater  writers  on  the  theme  such  as  Ramesvar 
and  Bharatcandra  (eighteenth  century)  but  has  never  been 
surpassed  by  them.  The  second  part  of  the  poem  is  the 
‘Akhati  Khanda’  (Fowler  Section)  and  the  third  part  the 
‘Vanik  Khanda’  (Merchant  Section).  These  two  are  the 
main  stories  of  Candimangal. 

Mukundaram  w'as  a shrewd  observer  of  men  and 
manners.  Throughout  his  long  poem  there  are  occasional 
glimpses  of  the  diverse  types  of  humanity  presented  in  their 
strength  and  weakness.  The  poet  had  suffered  much  in  his 
life,  and  he  had  enough  justification  for  being  bitter  against 
the  tyrannical  rich.  This  bitterness  found  expression  only 
in  stray  lines  and  did  not  spoil  the  serenity  of  his  outlook. 
The  individual  characters  as  well  as  the  social  groups  are 
drawn  sharply  and  with  understanding  and  sympathy.  I give 
an  illustration: 

Kalaketu  was  slaughtering  the  beasts  of  the  forest  in- 
discriminately, and  the  victims  could  not  do  anything  about 
it.  At  last  they  came  weeping  to  their  protecting  goddess 
Candl.  Mukundaram  presents  the  animals  as  they  were 
tearfully  placing  their  grievances  before  the  goddess  almost 
as  human  beings  with  idiosyncracies  and  individualities.  No 
doubt  the  poet  here  remembered  his  own  anxious  days 
before  he  had  left  his  old  home — 

The  lion  said:  Mother,  without  any  offence  on  my  part 
you  have  taken  away  grace.  It  is  you  that  made  me  the 
king  of  animals,  but  as  my  brother  is  no  more  I should 
better  forgo  kingship  and  serve  as  your  mount. 

The  bear  said:  Merciful  lady,  I am  really  a creature 
that  lives  on  ants  and  insects.  I am  neither  a Niyogi  nor 
a Caudhurl,3  nor  am  I a landholder.  Under  your 
assurance,  Mother,  I have  been  here.  But  I have  lost 


1 High  officers  of  State. 


128 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


my  wife  and  seven  sons  and  there  are  two  grandchildren, 
to  rear. 

The  cow  elephant  grovelled  in  the  dust  and  wept.  She 
appealed  to  the  goddess  pitifully  and  said : My  son,  dark 
and  handsome,  who  had  a white  birth  mark  on  the  fore- 
head shaped  like  the  moon  and  illuminating  the  woods, 
is  no  more.  We  are  the  topmost  in  fame,  in  family  and 
in  looks,  yet  there  is  no  place  for  us  to  hide  from  the 
sight  of  Kalaketu.  What  can  we  do?  Where  can  we 
go?  Where  can  we  find  safety  ? Our  own  tusks  are  our 
enemies. 

The  hare  wept  spasmodically  and  said:  I served  the 
goddess  of  boundless  charity  but  still  my  miseries  do  not 
end.  We  live  underground  and  know  well  how  to  hide 
ourselves.  But  it  is  of  little  avail  for  Kalaketu  pours 
water  into  my  hole.  My  children,  four  sons  and  two 
daughters,  were  killed,  and  likewise  my  wife.  What  is 
the  good  of  going  on  living  at  this  old  age? 

The  subject  matter  of  the  poem  is  mythological  in  origin 
and  religious  in  character.  Nevertheless,  Mukundaram 
managed  to  weave  into  it  a large  measure  of  the  con- 
temporary social  life  and  atmosphere  of  West  Bengal. 
Bengali  life,  starting  with  the  birth  ceremony  of  a child  and 
ending  with  the  town  settlement  of  the  various  castes  and 
creeds,  received  very  close  attention  from  Mukundaram. 
A vein  of  humour  runs  through  his  descriptions  which  has 
saved  the  long  poem  from  being  monotonous  and  pedestrian. 
The  poet  was  a good  Hindu  who  had  no  special  reason  to  be 
partial  to  the  Muslims,  but  his  description  of  the  Muslim 
settlers  in  the  newly  founded  capital  town  of  Kalaketu  shows 
intimate  knowledge,  understanding  and  sympathy,  if  not 
partiality.  For  the  Pathans  the  poet  has  nothing  but  praise : 

They  are  very  large-hearted  ; they  do  not  harass  any- 
body ; they  do  not  give  up  fasting  even  on  pain  of  death. 
They  put  on  the  Pathan  dress,  they  are  shaven-headed. 


NARRATIVE  POETRY  ON  CANDI  AND  MANASA  129 

but  they  grow  a beard  that  screens  the  chest.  They  do 
not  give  up  their  own  ways  of  life  ; they  wear  ten-fold 
turbans  on  their  heads  ; they  wear  slack  trousers  firmly 
girt.  They  do  not  speak  to  a man  that  is  not  wearing  a 
headgear  ; they  cudgel  his  head  instead. 

The  major  characters  are  few  but  not  as  individual  as 
the  minor  ones  invariably  are.  The  major  characters  had 
to  be  on  the  traditional  pattern  and  the  poet  had  very  little 
option  over  them.  But  in  a deft  line  or  two  he  reveals  the 
hidden  depth  of  the  minor  characters  and  so  renders  the  vague 
outlines  into  distinct  figures.  The  goldsmith  Murari  Sil  was 
not  at  home  to  Kalaketu  as  long  as  he  thought  the  fowler  had 
come  to  dun  him  for  the  meat  supplied.  But  he  came  out 
all  sunshine  the  moment  he  understood  that  Kalaketu  had 
come  to  sell  a jewel.  The  housemaid  Durbala  took  her  time 
to  submit  her  shopping  bill.  These  are  some  of  the  glowing 
instances  of  Mukundaram’s  light  and  deft  touches.  The 
delightful  rogue  Bhamru  Datta  as  painted  by  Mukundaram 
is  almost  immortal  in  Indian  literature. 

With  the  exception  of  a very  few  Vaishnav  writers 
Mukundaram  was  the  best  writer  not  only  of  the  century 
but  of  the  entire  Middle  Bengali  literature,  showing  varied 
knowledge  and  culture.  He  judiciously  utilized  his  learning 
but  he  never  allowed  it  to  get  the  better  of  poetic  fancy  and 
clarity  of  style.  As  a result  his  poem  presents  a gallery  of  good 
pictures  of  the  domestic,  social,  economic  and  cultural  life  of 
the  day  and  of  the  region.  There  is  no  ostentation  of  learning; 
at  the  same  time  loudness  or  vulgarity  of  any  sort  is  absent. 
The  diction  is  chaste,  the  vocabulary  rich.  Foreign  words  that 
had  become  more  or  less  naturalized  were  not  shunned. 

Mukundaram’s  Candimangal  is  a narrative  poem  to  be 
chanted  and  sung.  Lyric  songs  imbedded  in  it  are  very  few. 
A good  instance  of  such  a song  is  the  following,  a lullaby. 

Come,  come,  my  child.  What  do  you  cry  for,  my  love? 
What  do  you  want?  I shall  cull  for  you  the  flowers 

9 


130 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


from  heaven,  each  priced  a lakh.  I shall  make  a garland 
of  them  for  you.  Cry  no  more,  my  heart’s  love.  I shall 
lay  a snare  in  the  dome  of  the  sky,  and  I shall  trap  in 
the  moon  of  the  heavens.  That  moon  I shall  put  in  as 
paste  on  your  forehead.  Tomorrow  I shall  get  you  a 
ball  made  of  gold  to  play.  I shall  give  you  cream  and 
sweets  to  eat  and  scent  to  wear  ; I shall  give  you  camphor, 
tender  betel  leaf  and  soft  betelnut  to  chew.  I shall  get  for 
you  a rich  marriage  dowry  including  a chariot,  elephants 
and  horses,  and  I shall  marry  you  to  the  daughters 
of  a couple  of  princes.  My  Srnnanta  shall  sail  in  a 
golden  boat.  I shall  rub  his  limbs  softly  with  camphor 
and  musk.  Fanned  with  a chowrie  he  shall  sleep  on  a 
fourposter.  Thus  sings  Mukunda  in  his  Ambikamangal ,4 


In  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries  a few  Candi- 
mahgal  poems  were  written.  But  they  had  no  chance 
against  the  overwhelming  and  universal  popularity  of 
Mukundaram’s  work  which  served  for  the  later  writers  as  the 
norm  of  ‘Marigal’  poetry.  Of  the  poems  on  the  story  of 
Manasa  only  one  can  be  assigned  to  the  sixteenth  century 
with  any  assurance.  This  is  Narayan  Dev’s  Manasamahgal. 
The  poet  belonged  to  North-east  Bengal  but  his  great-great- 
grandfather had  come  from  West  Bengal  (Radha)  to  settle  by 
the  Brahmaputra.  It  was  possibly  this  family  that  introduced 
the  poetry  of  Manasa  in  North-east  Bengal.  Narayan  Dev’s 
poem  was  very  popular,  and  all  the  later  writers  of  the  theme 
from  East  and  North-east  Bengal  were  more  or  less  indebted 
to  him.  The  manuscripts  are  not  older  than  the  eighteenth 
century,  and  these  are  all  mixed  up  with  the  works  of  several 
later  writers  and  singers  of  Manasamahgal  poetry.  The  story 
of  Siva  and  Parvatl  forms  the  introductory  part  of  Narayan 
Dev’s  poem  and  this  is  a peculiarity. 


4 Literally  ‘Poem  of  the  Mother  Goddess’,  another  name  of  Candimahgal. 


131 


NARRATIVE  POETRY  ON  CANDf  AND  MANASA 

Narayan  often  added  the  epithet  ‘Sukavi’  (Good  Poet)  to 
his  name.  This  led  to  the  name  ‘Sukavi-narayana’  by  which 
his  poem  came  to  be  known  later.  This  name  was  corrupted 
into  ‘Sukananni’,  and  this  is  the  title  by  which  Narayan’s 
poem  is  now  known  in  the  Western  districts  of  Assam. 

Fragmentary  manuscripts  of  two  Manasamahgal  poems 
from  Kamarup  (Western  Assam)  have  recently  come  to  light. 
The  authors  Manakar  and  Durgavar  probably  belonged  to 
the  seventeenth  century  or  even  earlier.  There  is  some  affi- 
nity with  the  poem  of  Narayan  Dev.  The  latter’s  poem  has 
enjoyed  a special  vogue  in  Western  Assam. 


12 


THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


From  the  last  quarter  of  the  sixteenth  century  Bengal  was  no 
longer  an  independent  territory  and  the  administration  of 
the  country  was  no  more  in  the  hands  of  the  natives  of  Bengal. 
The  provincial  governors  as  well  as  the  high  officers  now 
came  from  Delhi  and  Agra.  A new  group  of  landholders  and 
feudal  chiefs  came  into  existence  and  they  always  looked  for 
favours  from  the  Mughal  court. 

The  most  noticeable  thing  in  literature  in  the  seven- 
teenth century  is  the  almost  mechanical  repetition  of 
Vaishnav  lyrics  and  equally  unoriginal  continuity  of  the 
narrative  (‘Mangal’)  poetry  which  was  fast  losing  novelty  and 
freshness.  Of  the  new  trends  the  most  significant  was  the 
appearance  of  the  romantic  and  non-religious  narrative  tales 
in  verse  to  be  sung  and  chanted  (‘Pancali’  but  not  ‘Mangal’) 
based  on  Hindi  and  Persian  originals,  and  this  poetry  was 
almost  exclusively  cultivated  by  the  Muslim  writers  from 
remote  South-east  Bengal.  A cryptic  and  halting  prose  style 
of  the  aphoristic  sort  was  adopted  by  the  native  school  of 
Vaishnav  mystics  in  writing  down  their  instructions  to  the 
neophyte  but  such  handbooks  hardly  belong  to  literature. 
Some  of  the  Roman  Catholic  priests  and  missionaries,  Portu- 
guese and  Bengali,  followed  suit.  But  their  attempts,  although 
more  elaborate,  were  equally  abortive. 

The  most  famous  literary  work  of  the  century,  more  by 
accident  than  by  merit,  is  the  Mahabharata  poem  (called 
Pandavvijay ) ascribed  to  Kaslram  Dev  (or  Das).  Second  only 
to  Krttivas’s  Rdmdyana  poem,  Kaslram’s  work  has  ever  since 
been  the  most  universally  popular  book  irf  the  language.  The 
whole  poem  goes  by  the  authorship  of  Kaslram  but  it  is  in 
fact  a compilation.  Kaslram  wrote  only  the  first  four  sections 
(‘Parva’).  The  next  two  or  three  sections  were  written  by 
Nandaram,  a nephew  of  Kaslram.  The  remaining  sections 
are  taken  from  the  works  of  Nityananda  Ghos  (who  wrote  a 


THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


133 


short  Mahabharata  poem  some  time  before  the  end  of  the 
seventeenth  century)  and  others.  Kasiram  wrote  his  poem 
in  the  first  decade  of  the  century.  He  belonged  to  South-west 
Bengal  but  his  family  had  come  from  the  North  Radha  on 
the  west  bank  of  the  Hooghly. 

Kasiram  was  the  second  of  three  brothers.  The  elder 
brother  Srlkrsnakiiikar  became  a Vaishnav  recluse  and  wrote 
a narrative  poem  on  the  Krishna  story  following  the  Bhaga- 
vata.  The  younger  brother  Gadadhar  was  living  in  Cuttack  in 
Orissa  when  he  wrote  the  narrative  poem  J agannathmarigal 
(briefly  Jagatmangal),  eulogy  of  the  deity  Jagannath  at  Puri. 
This  work  is  based  on  several  Puranas  and  was  written  in 
1643.  Other  persons  to  write  such  a poem  were  Candracud 
Aditya  (1676),  Mukunda  ‘the  brahman’  (early  eighteenth 
century)  and  Visvambhardas  (close  of  the  eighteenth  century). 


Sanskrit  works  of  the  Vaishnav  masters  of  Brindavan  were 
avidly  translated  or  abriged  into  Bengali  verse.  The  most 
successful  writer  of  this  type  was  Yadunandandas,  a follower 
of  HemalatadevI  the  eldest  daughter  of  Srlnivas  Acarya. 
Vernacular  renderings  of  the  Puranas  were  fast  gaining  in 
popularity,  specially  in  the  courts  of  feudatory  chiefs  in  the 
border  regions,  North-east  and  South-west.  Adaptations  of  the 
Candl  story  from  Markandeya  Purana  were  specially  popular 
in  North  and  North-east  Bengal.  The  Bhagavadglta  was 
paraphrased  in  Bengali  by  more  than  half  a dozen  writers. 

Of  the  numerous  narrative  poems  on  the  Krishna 
legends  only  one  is  worth  mention.  Bhavananda,  who  calls 
his  poem  Harivamsa  (Dynasty  of  Hari)  belonged  to  North- 
east Bengal.  The  work  has  retained  much  of  the  primitive 
flavour  of  the  amorous  theme,  and  is  therefore  affiliated  with 
‘Badu’  Candidas’s  poem.  Bhavananda’s  poem  is  distin- 
guished by  lyric  pieces  that  occasionally  contain  lines  of  real 
ppetry.  The  author  probably  belonged  to  the  earlier  half 
of  the  century.  The  poem  retained  its  popularity,  until 


134 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


recently,  among  the  Muslims  of  Sylhet  and  its  neighbourhood. 

Writing  of  lyric  songs  was  continued  by  Vaishnav  poets 
with  great  gusto  if  not  always  with  tolerable  skill.  The  best 
of  the  poets  aimed  at  achieving  a purely  musical  effect  by 
imitating  the  diction  of  Govindadas  Kaviraj.  The  effect  of 
this  diction  on  the  audience  was  heightened  by  the  musical 
rhythm  of  the  new  Klrttan  style.  Among  the  Vaishnav 
lyric  song  writers  we  find  a few  Muslims.  Foremost  among 
them  were  Saiyad  Martuza  and  Nasir  Mamud.  Apparently 
both  had  adopted  the  Vaishnav  faith. 

Anthologies  of  Vaishnav  lyrics  began  to  be  compiled  at 
first  only  as  supplying  illustration  to  the  rhetorical  doctrines 
of  Rupa  Gosvamin.  The  earliest  work  of  this  sort  is 
Radhakrsnarasakalpavalli  (Wish-fulfilling  Creeper  of  the 
Divine  Love).  Its  author  Ramgopaldas  (who  signed  often 
as  Gopaldas)  was  himself  a writer  of  lyric  songs. 


The  best  poem  (and  the  most  popular  in  West  Bengal) 
on  the  legends  of  Manasa  is  Ketakadas’s  Manasamangal.  It 
was  written  sometime  in  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth 
century.  Taking  his  cue  from  Mukundaram  Cakravarti, 
Ketakadas  (who  called  himself  also  as  Ksemananda)  opens  his 
poem  with  an  autobiographical  introduction.  It  is  briefly 
this: 

The  poet’s  father  Sankar  Mandal  was  in  the  employ  of 
the  local  zamindar.  When  the  latter  died  leaving  three 
young  sons  Sankar  fell  in  the  bad  grace  of  the  manager  of  the 
estate  and  had  to  move  away  with  his  family  from  his  native 
village.  They  came  to  a village  where  he  secured  employ- 
ment under  another  zamindar.  One  afternoon  the  mother 
asked  Ketakadas  and  his  younger  brother  Abhiram  to  get 
some  fodder  from  the  marshy  field  lying  just  outside  the 
village.  On  their  way  to  the  field  the  boys  had  a clash  with 
some  other  boys  who  were  catching  fish  in  a muddy  pool. 
Ketakadas  took  away  their  catch  and  sent  his  brother  back 


THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


135 


home  with  it.  When  he  reached  the  field  there  was  nobody 
there  and  it  was  nearing  sundown.  He  had  scarcely  begun 
to  mow  when  a dust  storm  arose  and  he  suddenly  found  a 
woman  of  the  shoemaker  (MucT)  caste  standing  just  in  front 
of  him.  The  woman  spoke  to  him  and  offered  for  sale  a 
piece  of  fine  cloth.  Before  the  astounded  young  man  could 
utter  a syllable  she  tucked  the  cloth  into  her  clothes.  At  the 
same  time  Ketakadas  felt  sharp  pain  in  one  foot  and  thinking 
it  was  an  ant  bite  he  looked  down.  When  he  looked  up 
again  he  was  shocked  to  find  that  the  woman  had  vanished. 
His  shock  turned  into  terror  at  the  next  sight.  It  was  a 
manifestation  of  the  goddess  (which  the  poet  does  not 
describe  as  he  was  forbidden  to  do  so)  with  lots  of  serpents 
writhing  and  gliding.  This  was  how  Manasa  revealed  herself 
to  Ketakadas.  Before  the  goddess  vanished  she  had  command- 
ed him  to  write  her  poem  and  sing  it  professionally.  This, 
according  to  the  poet,  is  the  origin  of  his  Manasamangal. 

Ketakadas’s  poem  closely  follows  the  pattern  of  the  story 
that  was  current  in  West  Bengal.  The  style  is  simple  and 
appealing  to  the  masses  without  being  vulgar  or  cheap.  In 
spite  of  very  little  scope  for  freedom  of  characterization 
Ketakadas  has  shown  some  individuality. 

The  sobriquet  ‘Ksemananda’  was  used  by  a few  other 
writers  of  Manasamangal  poems  from  West  Bengal.  One  of 
them  was  known  only  as  Ksemananda.  His  is  the  smallest 
poem  of  the  class,  and  the  only  two  manuscripts  known  are 
in  Nagari  script  and  belonged  to  Manbhum.  The  style  of 
the  poem  is  simple  and  direct  and  the  character  of  Cando 
is  delineated  boldly.  It  was  written  probably  in  the  second 
half  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

Visnu  Pal,  if  the  only  known  manuscript  is  faithful  to 
the  original,  was  a native  of  North-west  Bengal  and  he  wrote 
his  Manasamangal  in  the  dialect  of  that  region.  The  poem 
retains  some  old  features  which  are  not  noticeable  anywhere 
except  in  Vipradas.  The  date  of  Visnu  Pal  may  not  be 
earlier  than  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century. 


136 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


The  Dharmamangal  poems  belong  exclusively  to  Radha 
(i.e.  the  part  of  West  Bengal  bordered  by  the  Ganga  on  the 
north  and  the  east),  and  the  poets  (who  were  not  all  brahmans, 
some  of  them  were  Kayasthas,  and  at  least  one  each  from 
such  castes  as  Kaivarta,  Sumdi,  Vaidya  and  Beniya)  number 
about  a couple  of  dozens.  None  of  them  can  be  assigned  to 
the  sixteenth  century  or  earlier  with  any  assurance. 

So  far  as  definite  chronology  is  concerned  Rupram 
Cakravartfs  poem  is  the  oldest  Dharmamangal  available  to 
us  in  a couplet  form.  The  poet  was  a native  of  South-west 
Bengal  ; his  village  Srlrampur  was  situated  about  six  miles 
to  the  North-west  of  Damunya  the  native  village  of 
Mukundaram  Cakravarti.  Following  the  footsteps  of  his 
illustrious  countryman  Rupram  began  his  poem  with  an 
autobiographical  account,  but  he  went  much  further.  Like 
his  predecessor,  Rupram  had  to  leave  his  ancestral  home  but 
for  an  entirely  different  reason,  and  his  migration  was  in  an 
opposite  direction,  to  the  north  across  the  Damodar. 
Rupram’s  account  of  himself  has  a literary  value.  It  gives 
some  snapshots  of  lower  middle  class  life  in  the  mid- 
seventeenth century  in  South-west  Bengal. 

Rupram  was  the  second  of  the  three  sons  of  Sriram 
Cakravarti  and  Damayantl.  He  had  two  brothers,  one  elder 
(Ratnesvar)  and  the  other  younger  (unnamed)  and  two 
younger  sisters  Sona  and  Hira.  The  father  was  a reputed 
pandit  with  a fairly  large  number  of  students.  When  the 
story  opens  Srlram  had  been  dead  for  some  time  and  the 
elder  brother  was  the  head  of  the  family.  For  a reason 
suppressed  by  him  but  preserved  in  local  tradition,1  Rupram 
was  not  pulling  on  well  with  his  elder  brother.  When 


1 According  to  the  local  tradition  that  was  current  in  the  locality  up  to 
some  fifty  years  ago  Rupram  had  fallen  in  love  with  a very  low  caste 
(‘Hadl’)  girl.  He  was  sent  away  from  home  to  cure  him  of  this  infatuation. 
But  the  love  had  gone  apparently  too  deep  for  such  cure.  The  poet  forsook 
his  home  and  country  but  not  his  love.  According  to  the  tradition  Rupram 
finally  married  the  girl  and  lost  his  caste.  There  is  some  support  for  this 
supposition  from  the  text  of  his  poem;  the  poet  sometimes  mentioned 
himself  as  ‘Fakir’. 


THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


137 


matters  came  to  a head  Rupram  was  compelled  to  leave  home 
and  continue  his  studies  elsewhere.  The  young  fellow 
would  take  nothing  from  home  except  his  books  and  writing 
tackle.  One  of  his  kindly  neighbours  gave  him  a change 
of  cloth  and  some  cash.  He  came  to  the  village  Adui.  The 
best  pandit  there  was  Raghuram  Bhattacarya.  The  tired- 
looking,  forlorn  boy  excited  his  pity.  He  accepted  him  as  a 
pupil  and  gave  him  quarters  in  his  own  home.  Rupram 
claims  that  under  the  pandit’s  teaching  and  guidance  he 
soon  finished  the  courses  in  vocabulary,  grammar,  poetry  and 
prosody.  One  day  when  the  pandit  was  giving  him  a lesson 
in  grammar  Rupram  interrupted  him  frequently  with  some 
unnecessary  questions.  The  pandit  at  last  lost  his  temper  ; 
he  threw  the  book  at  the  pupil’s  head  and  scolded  him  in 
these  words: 

An  entire  day  is  wasted  in  teaching  a word  or  two,  and 
my  other  classes  have  to  depend  on  this  fellow’s  whims. 
In  learning  a few  words  he  raises  an  endless  controversy. 
At  the  time  of  teaching  he  creates  unnecessary  diffi- 
culties. I cannot  keep  you  here  any  longer.  Go  home 
or  elsewhere — to  Navadvip  or  Santipur.  You  may  go  to 
Kanad  (Bhattacarya)  at  Jaugram,  who  has  no  rival 
even  at  Santipur. 

At  this  sudden  outburst  of  the  meek  teacher  who  would  shed 
tears  on  STta’s  woes  the  pupil  was  thoroughly  scared.  He  says: 

As  the  teacher  was  speaking  his  words  were  popping  out 
like  shots,  and  the  pock-marks  in  his  handsome  face 
glowed  as  it  were.  As  I heard  these  words  my  heart 
sank.  My  teacher  was  like  the  sun,  very  bright-look- 
ing. Who  is  there  that  can  disobey  the  command  of 
such  a compelling  teacher? 

Rupram  made  ready  to  start  for  Navadvip  immediately. 
When  he  had  gone  only  a few  hundred  yards  he  suddenly 
thought  of  his  mother  and  he  at  once  turned  to  the  path  that 


138 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


led  to  his  village.  Pushing  ahead  a few  miles  he  came  to  a 
lonely  and  disused  pathway  and  soon  lost  his  bearings. 
After  a time  he  realized  that  he  was  moving  in  a circle.  To 
get  his  bearings  right  he  looked  up  and  saw  a couple  of 
brahmini  ducks  flying  in  a circle  high  overhead.  When  he 
looked  down  he  saw  a pair  of  tigers  watching  him  quietly 
from  a distance.  The  young  man  made  a rush  forward  to 
escape  from  them  but  he  slipped  and  fell  down  heavily  on 
the  brink  of  a tank.  His  books  and  writing  tackle  were 
thrown  about.  As  he  stood  up  he  sensed  that  some  one  was 
collecting  the  things  for  him.  Rupram  thus  describes  the 
person  (no  other  than  Dharma  Himself): 

It  was  a Saturday  and  just  noon  time  when  Dharma  stood 
before  me  ; a splendid  garland  was  dangling  from  his 
neck.  He  was  also  wearing  a wreath  of  Champak 
flowers  ; he  had  a stout  staff  in  his  hand.  In  the  guise 
of  a brahman  he  stood  in  my  path. 

Dharma  returned  the  books  to  the  terrified  young  man, 
gave  him  his  blessings  in  the  form  of  some  flowers  and  a 
neck-chain  of  bones2  and  then  he  told  him  to  give  up  his 
studies  and  sing  professionally  his  ‘Twelve-day  Song’  (i.e. 
Dharmamangal).  Then  the  deity  disappeared  and  the 
young  man  made  a straight  run  for  his  home.  . When  he 
came  to  the  outskirts  of  Srlrampur  it  was  late  afternoon.  He 
drank  his  fill  from  a tank  and  sat  down  to  rest.  He  would 
go  home  only  after  dark  so  that  the  elder  brother  might  not 
know  of  his  home-coming,  and  he  could  then  quietly  meet 
his  mother.  But  that  was  not  to  be.  His  sisters  were  at  the 
door  and  as  they  saw  him  they  cried  out  in  glee.  Ratnesvar 
came  out  to  enquire  and  saw  Rupram  back  home  so  soon. 
Then  the  poet  says: 

Before  I had  so  much  as  taken  a seat  in  my  home  the 

2 Does  this  (‘ hader  mala’)  signify  the  poet’s  connection  with  the  Hadi 

girl? 


THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


139 


brother  spoke  using  harsh  words  against  me,  and  I could 
not  meet  my  mother. 

My  cruel  brother  barked:  ‘Yesterday  you  went  away  for 
study,  and  you  dare  return  home  today.’  He  flung  away 
my  books,  the  grammar  and  the  dictionary  ; the  com- 
mentaries too  were  thrown  away.  I collected  my  books 
once  again  ; I thought  I would  go  at  once  to  Navadvip, 
walking  day  and  night.  The  two  sisters  Sona  and  Hlra 
were  still  at  the  door,  but  for  the  fear  of  the  elder  brother 
they  could  not  go  in  and  tell  Mother  that  I had  come. 

Rupram’s  trek  northward  began  from  the  doorstep  then 
and  there.  When  he  reached  the  Damodar  he  had  been 
going  without  food  for  two  days.  A kind-hearted  man  gave 
him  some  paddy  which  he  exchanged  for  some  fried  rice. 
He  bathed  in  the  river  and  began  to  say  his  prayers.  Mean- 
while a gust  of  wind  blew  away  the  fried  rice.  The  poet  says: 

Fried  rice  was  blown  away  by  the  wind  and  I could  drink 
only  water  ; to  carry  my  books  and  writing  tackle  I 
hardly  had  the  strength. 

Crossing  over  the  river  Rupranr  jogged  on  until  on  the 
third  day  of  starvation  he  reached  a village  where  he  had 
heard  that  a weaver  family  was  holding  a ceremonial  feast. 
To  quote  the  poet: 

I suffered  from  the  hands  of  fate,  and  I was  a man  easily 
affected.  I wanted  to  approach  the  weaver  family  for 
a brahman’s  fee.  I hastened  and  made  my  appearance 
there.  My  heart  was  delighted  at  the  sight  of  the  arrange- 
ments for  a dinner  of  flattened  rice  and  sour  curd.* 3 

The  famished  young  man  had  his  fill  but  he  missed  fried 
paddy.4  He  also  received  some  cowries  as  a brahman  guest’s 

8 These  were  some  of  the  main  items  of  a feast  given  to  a brahman 

by  a non-brahman. 

4 A non-brahman  would  not  normally  serve  fried  paddy  to  a brahman 
guest. 


140 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


fee.  Next  day  he  came  to  the  village  Edal  where  lived  Ganes 
Ray  the  brahman  chief  of  the  locality.  Ganes  Ray  welcomed 
Rupram  and  made  all  arrangements  for  him  to  stay  and 
write  his  poem.  When  it  was  completed  the  chief  made  all 
arrangements  for  the  performance  of  the  ritual  song  of 
Dharma. 

Rupram  mentions  that  when  he  completed  his  poem 
Shuja  was  the  subedar  at  Rajmahal.  Then  he  mentions  the 
year  (1571  £aka=  1649)  in  a chronogram  presented  in  the 
form  of  a stiff  puzzle. 

The  popularity  of  Rupram’s  poem  in  West  Bengal  was 
unprecedented.  It  superseded  the  earlier  poems  of  the 
genre  and  is  not  excelled  by  any  such  poem  written  subse- 
quently. Its  popularity  is  indicated  by  the  numerous 
manuscripts  that  have  come  down  to  us.  It  presents  the 
story  in  a simple  and  uninvolved  form.  There  is  no  attempt 
at  pedantry  and  Bookish  verbosity. 


Several  local  folk-cults  hitherto  confined  to  outlying  regions 
were  now  claiming  attention.  The  person  who  took  up  the 
task  of  elevating  the  folk-tales  and  songs  connected  with 
these  cults  into  the  class  of  ‘Mahgal’  poetry  was  a Kayastha, 
Krsnaramdas  by  name.  He  lived  in  a village  about  four 
miles  to  the  north  of  Calcutta.  His  first  work  Kalikamangal, 
really  a version  of  the  story  of  Vidya  and  Sundar,  was 
written  in  1676  when  he  was  twenty  years  of  age.  The 
second  poem  Sasthimangal  was  written  three  years  later 
(1679).  It  is  a small  work  seeking  to  establish  the  worship 
of  Sasthi,  the  deity  of  child  welfare.  The  story,  based  on 
a folk-tale,  is  briefly  this: 

The  goddess  Sasthi  was  out  to  propagate  her  worship 
on  the  earth.  The  story  begins  with  her  arrival  in  Satgaon 
on  the  Ganga.  She  saw  that  the  town  was  rich  and  populated. 
In  the  form  of  a very  old  brahman  woman  and  accompanied 
by  her  lady-in-waiting  Nila,  she  betook  herself  to  the  inner 


THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


141 


apartments  of  the  king.  The  queen  received  her  politely. 
The  goddess  told  the  queen  that  she  was  coming  from 
Burdwan  for  a ceremonial  bath  in  the  Ganga  and  that  she 
would  like  to  worship  SasthI  then  and  there.  The  queen 
was  curious  to  know  the  efficacy  of  the  worship  of  SasthI. 
The  old  lady  told  her  the  following  story. 

The  wife  of  a merchant  had  received  blessings  from 
SasthI  and  possessed  seven  sons  who  were  all  grown  up  and 
married.  Her  youngest  daughter-in-law  was  carrying  when 
one  day  she  ate  the  food  to  be  offered  to  the  goddess,  and 
let  it  to  be  known  that  a black  cat  had  eaten  it.  From  that 
time  her  issues  were  all  stolen  from  the  lying-in  room  by 
a black  cat.  On  the  seventh  occasion  she  went  to  the  woods 
and  was  delivered  of  a child.  Soon  a black  cat  appeared 
from  nowhere  and  took  away  the  baby.  She  gave  chase  but 
could  not  catch  the  cat.  She  sat  on  the  wayside  and  wept. 
The  goddess  then  appeared  before  her  and  returned  her 
lost  children.  The  woman  came  home  and  worshipped  the 
goddess  with  devotion. 

On  hearing  this  tale  from  the  old  lady  the  queen  became 
a willing  devotee  of  SasthI. 

Krsnaram’s  third  poem  Rdymangal  was  written  in  1786. 
It  celebrates  the  greatness  of  the  two  local  deities  of  the 
Sundarbans,  Daksin  Ray  (Lord  of  the  South)  of  the  Hindus 
and  Bada-Khan  Gazi  (Big  Khan  the  Ghazi)  of  the  Muslims. 
The  story  incidentally  records  the  conflict  between  the  two 
and  subsequent  peace  and  amity  brought  about  by  the 
Supreme  Being.  Krsnaram  was  not  the  first  to  write  a 
Rdymangal  poem  as  he  mentions  a predecessor  Madhav 
Acarya  whose  work  has  not  survived.  Neither  was  Krsnaram 
the  last  writer  of  such  poetry. 

As  is  usual  with  most  of  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth 
century  writers  of  ‘Maiigal’  poetry,  Krsnaram  begins  with 
the  history  of  the  genesis  of  his  poem.  On  a Monday  in  the 
month  of  Bhaclra  (August-September)  the  poet  was  a guest 
of  a man  of  the  cowherd  caste  in  a village  some  miles  to  the 


142 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


south  of  his  native  place.  His  sleeping  accommodation  was 
made  in  a corner  of  the  grain  shed.  At  night  he  had  a dream. 
A person  riding  on  a tiger  and  carrying  a bow  and  arrows 
in  his  hands  approached  him  and  introduced  himself  as  the 
Lord  of  the  South.  He  commanded  Krsnaram  to  write  a 
poem  proclaiming  his  greatness,  and  he  gave  the -following 
assurance : 

If  anybody  fails  to  signify  appreciation  of  your  poem 

I shall  send  tigers  to  eat  up  his  whole  family. 

The  story  is  as  follows: 

A childless  king  was  advised  by  a sage  to  worship  Siva 
for  a son.  He  did  so  and  Daksin  Ray  was  born  to  him.  After 
he  succeeded  his  father,  Daksin  Ray  reclaimed  some  of  the 
wild  areas  of  the  Sundarbans  and  founded  a new  kingdom 
there.  On  his  death,  Daksin  Ray  became  the  presiding  deity 
of  the  southern  land  (i.e.  the  Sundarbans).  He  obtained  his 
first  worship  at  Patan.  He  sent  his  friend  Kalu  Ray  (Black 
Prince)  to  Hijli  to  quell  king  Narasimha,  who  admitted  the 
divinity  of  Daksin  Ray  only  when  his  dead  son  was  brought 
back  to  life.  Then  comes  the  story  of  the  merchant  Deva- 
datta  and  his  son  Puspadatta,  which  forms  the  main  theme 
of  the  main  part  of  Krsnaram’s  poem. 

Devadatta  of  Badadaha  (now  Barda  in  Midnapore)  had 
gone  on  a trading  voyage  to  the  city  of  Turanga  where  he 
incurred  the  displeasure  of  the  king  and  was  thrown  into 
prison  for  life.  After  a few  years’  waiting  Puspadatta  wanted 
to  set  out  in  search  of  his  father.  He  asked  the  wood-cutter 
Ratai  to  get  wood  for  building  boats.  Accompanied  by  his 
son  and  six  brothers  Ratai  went  to  the  forest.  They  un- 
knowingly cut  down  a tree  which  was  sacred  to  the  Lord  of 
the  South  who  at  once  sent  his  tigers  to  kill  Ratai ’s  brothers. 
When  Ratai  was  about  to  commit  suicide  in  grief  the  deity 
appeared  and  told  him  to  offer  his  son  as  sacrifice.  He  did 
as  he  was  told.  The  god  was  pleased  and  all  the  seven 
were  made  alive.  Wood  was  fetched  and  the  boats  were 


THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


143 


built.  Puspadatta  started  on  his  mission  down  the  Ganga. 
When  his  boats  were  passing  by  the  places  where  Bada-Khan 
Gazi  and  Daksin  Ray  had  their  sacred  places  receiving  wor- 
ship from  all  going  that  way,  the  young  merchant  was  curious 
to  know  why  the  former  was  represented  by  an  earthen 
mound  and  the  latter  by  a head  cut  off  from  the  body.  The 
captain  of  the  boats  replied  that  once  there  was  a mortal 
conflict  between  the  two.  It  ended  only  when  the  Supreme 
Being  intervened. 

Puspadatta  was  intrigued.  On  his  request  the  sailor 
narrated  the  following  story  of  the  conflict  between  the  Gazi 
and  Ray. 

Once  upon  a time  a merchant  named  Dhanapati  was 
sailing  to  Patan  with  a heavy  cargo  of  merchandize.  When 
he  was  passing  by  the  sacred  places  he  paid  his  homage  only 
to  Daksin  Ray  and  ignored  the  Gazi  altogether.  The  fakir 
devotees  of  the  Gazi  approached  the  merchant  and  told  him 
not  to  neglect  the  worship  due  to  the  deity.  Dhanapati 
would  not  listen  to  them  and  had  them  driven  out  from  his 
presence.  The  fakirs  complained  to  the  Gazi  that  a Bengali 
bully  did  not  care  for  him  and  had  treated  his  servants 
roughly.  The  anger  of  the  Gazi  fell  on  Daksin  Ray  ; he 
ordered  his  men  to  pull  down  and  sack  the  place  belonging 
to  Ray.  Ray  was  then  living  with  his  family  at  Khadi.  A 
Bania  named  Bate  came  to  him  with  the  news.  Ray  was 
furious.  Hostilities  commenced  at  once  with  tiger  armies 
on  each  side.  There  were  wins  and  losses  on  both  sides. 
Finally  the  Supreme  Being  appeared  before  them  in  this 
guise  of  compromise: 

One  half  of  his  head  wore  a quia,  the  other  half  showed 
a turban  with  a peacock  feather  ; a garland  of  flowers 
and  a rosary  of  beads  (dangled  from  his  neck).  His  skin 
was  partly  fair  and  partly  as  dark  as  black  cloud  ; the 
Koran  and  the  Purana  were  held  in  his  two  hands. 

The  two  deities  now  became  fast  friends  for  ever. 


144 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Puspadatta  paid  his  homage  to  both  the  deities  and 
proceeded  on  his  voyage.  The  story  then  closely  follows  the 
well-known  pattern  of  the  Dhanapati-Srlpati  episode  of 
Candimangal. 

Krsnaram’s  next  work,  Sitalamangal  was  written  as  a 
sequel  of  Rdymahgal.  The  story  follows  the  pattern 
of  Sasthlmangal.  Vasant  Ray,  the  son  and  factotum 
of  Sitala  (the  goddess  of  pox  and  other  diseases),, 
was  out  on  horseback  to  propagate  the  worship  of 
the  goddess  and  arrived  first  at  Satgaon.  He  then 
became  a Vaishnav  tradesman  and  with  his  string  of 
pack  bullocks  approached  the  toll  collector  Madan  Das,  a 
Kayastha.  To  the  latter  he  said  that  he  was  coming  from 
Burdwan  with  commodities  for  sale.  Taking  him  to  be  a 
meek  Vaishnav  fellow  Madan  ordered  his  Rajput  peons  and 
guards  to  seize  the  goods  of  Vasant  Ray.  The  things  were 
all  food  stuff,  and  Madan  and  his  men  soon  made  short  work 
of  them.  In  reality  the  commodities  were  the  various 
diseases  that  formed  the  retinue  of  Vasant  Ray  and  Sltala. 
The  result  was  that  Madan  and  his  men  got  those  diseases  in 
galore.  The  Vaishnav  merchant  had  to  be  propitiated  now. 
Madan  made  a vow  that  he  would  never  again  collect  tolls 
from  a Vaishnav.  Vasant  Ray  then  revealed  his  own  identity 
and  told  him  to  worship  him  as  a deity  so  that  he  (Madan) 
would  enjoy  continued  prosperity.  The  grateful  Madan  Das 
built  a beautiful  temple  on  the  bank  of  the  Ganga  and 
therein  installed  the  images  of  Vasant  Ray  and  Sltala.  The 
next  episode,  Vasant  Ray’s  conquest  of  a Kazi,  is  preserved 
only  fragmentarily. 

In  the  latter  half  of  the  eighteenth  century  quite  a 
number  of  poets,  all  belonging  to  South-west  Radha,  wrote 
Sitalamangal  poems  of  various  sizes.  One  of  them  was 
Manikram  Ganguli,  the  author  of  a Dharmamangal  poem. 
The  biggest  work  of  the  genre  was  written  by  Nityananda 
Cakravarti  who  belonged  to  South-east  Midnapore  where  it 
enjoyed  high  popularity. 


THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


145 


The  fifth  and  last  poem  by  Krsnaramdas  is  Laksmi- 
marigal.  The  story  is  based  on  a folk-tale  moulded  at  the 
end  in  the  usual  pattern  of  the  narrative  (Maiigal)  poetry. 
Two  friends  from  Gaud  were  out  to  see  the  world  and  seek 
their  fortune.  They  were  passing  through  the  wild  tract  of 
Orissa  on  their  way  to  Kanclpur.  One  of  them  was  Vallabh, 
a bania,  favoured  by  LaksmI  (the  goddess  of  fortune) 
and  the  other  was  his  friend  Janardan,  a brahman.  Vallabh 
trotted  on  horseback  and  Janardan  trudged  behind  him.  To 
test  her  protege’s  courage  and  devotion  the  goddess  sent  her 
companion  to  them  in  the  form  of  a tiger.  The  brahman 
swooned  away  on  sighting  the  beast,  but  the  merchant  bravely 
faced  the  tiger  and  mentally  sought  the  protection  of  LaksmI. 
The  tiger  disappeared,  and  Vallabh  helped  his  friend  to 
regain  consciousness.  A few  yards  ahead  they  came  to  a lake. 
The  two  friends  drank  the  water  of  the  lake  but  when  the 
horse  was  about  to  drink  a huge  serpent  came  out  of  the  lake 
and  devoured  it  and  disappeared  into  the  lake.  At  the  loss 
of  the  animal  Vallabh  was  overcome  with  grief  and  he  wanted 
to  throw  himself  into  the  water.  Janardan  consoled  him 
and  advised  him  to  pray  to  LaksmI.  The  goddess  then 
appeared  before  them  as  a very  old  brahman  lady.  She 
was  holding  a small  bird  in  a cage.  Finding  the  two  young 
men  in  a despondent  mood  she  said:  ‘Tell  me  what  ails  you. 
I am  a brahman’s  daughter  and  I know  the  occult  ways  and 
means.’  On  being  told  of  the  loss  of  their  horse  she  released 
the  bird  from  the  cage.  The  bird  dived  into  the  lake  and 
came  up  with  the  serpent  in  its  beak.  The  belly  of  the 
serpent  was  ripped  open,  and  the  remains  of  all  the  animals 
devoured  came  out  alive.  The  goddess  gave  Vallabh  a lotus 
flower  which  she  wore  as  an  ear  ornament  and  told  him  to 
put  it  on  his  head  at  any  time  of  distress  or  emergency.  She 
disappeared  and  the  two  friends  made  a move  onward.  As 
soon  as  their  back  was  turned  the  serpent  was  made  whole 
and  it  went  back  into  the  lake. 

Soon  the  friends  came  to  a rich  but  entirely  deserted 

10 


146 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


city.  Janardan  would  have  passed  it  by  but  Vallabh  felt 
curious.  They  came  to  the  palace  and  passed  through  three 
halls.  In  the  fourth  hall  they  saw  a giantess  seated  on  the 
royal  throne.  They  bowed  down  before  her  and  told  her 
their  story.  She  offered  them  hospitality.  Janardan  was  for 
immediate  departure  from  the  place,  but  Vallabh  reminded 
him  of  Laksmfs  help.  They  passed  the  night  quietly.  On 
the  morning  before  going  out  for  feed  the  giantess  had 
hinted  to  her  protege,  the  princess  of  the  land  and  the  only 
surviving  human,  that  Janardan  would  be  a good  husband 
to  her.  The  princess  and  Janardan  met  in  the  garden  and 
instantly  fell  in  love.  The  princess  told  him  that  she  was 
Ratnamala  the  daughter  of  king  VTrasimha  who  had  suffered 
the  curse  of  a sage  that  he  and  his  people  would  be  devoured 
by  a demoness. 

They  soon  became  husband  and  wife,  which  the  giantess 
approved  silently.  On  the  next  day  the  friends  left  the  place 
and  the  giantess  requested  them  to  visit  her  on  the  return 
journey.  Pushing  on  they  came  to  the  sea  coast.  Finding 
their  way  blocked  thus  they  prayed  to  Laksmi  who  made 
a way  for  them  through  the  sea.  On  one  side  was  the  open 
sea  and  on  the  other  Kamaladaha  (Lake  of  Laksmi).  Seated 
on  the  back  of  the  horse  the  two  friends  jogged  on.  Suddenly 
they  saw  in  Kamaladaha  a wondrous  sight.  On  the  surface 
of  the  water  there  was  a green  patch  of  rich  paddy-field  and 
in  it  there  was  a big  blooming  lotus  on  which  was  seated 
a beautiful  girl  wearing  as  ornaments  the  various  species  of 
paddy  sheafs.  After  a time  they  reached  their  destination 
Kanclpur.  The  police  chief  met  them  as  they  were  sight- 
seeing, and  receiving  scant  attention  from  them  he  had  them 
arrested  as  spies  and  brought  before  the  king.  The  king 
wanted  to  know  who  they  were.  Vallabh,  as  ill  luck  would 
have  it,  narrated  their  adventures  in  full.  The  king  wanted 
to  see  the  wondrous  sight  for  himself  and  test  their  veracity. 
This  they  could  not  do.  Vallabh  was  taken  to  the  execution 
ground.  At  the  last  moment  however  he  remembered  the 


THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


147 


words  of  the  goddess.  He  touched  the  flower  given  by  the 
goddess  on  his  head  and  instantly  the  goddess  appeared  in 
her  disguise  of  an  old  brahman  lady  carrying  a small  bird 
in  a cage.  When  she  could  not  get  Vallabh  released  by 
request  and  begging  she  released  the  bird.  The  bird  put 
terror  into  the  heart  of  the  king.  Vallabh  was  released  and 
was  married  to  the  daughter  of  the  king.  The  goddess  then 
showed  to  the  king  the  wondrous  sight  of  herself  as  the 
paddy  goddess.  After  some  time  Janardan,  Vallabh  and 
his  wife  started  for  home.  This  time  the  journey  was  by 
sea.  They  disembarked  at  the  sea  coast  and  took  the  trek 
through  the  wild  region.  They  came  to  the  palace  of  the 
giantess  who  received  them  heartily.  She  formally  handed 
over  her  fosterchild  to  Janardan.  Then  the  demoness  called 
the  girl  and  said  these  words: 

‘I  have  cared  for  you  to  the  best  of  my  ability.  You 
too  have  been  constant  in  my  service.  And  you  did  not 
think  of  the  fate  of  your  parents.  I have  married  you 
to  a brahman.  Go  to  your  own  home.  Do  you  look 
after  your  husband  with  loving  care  and  do  you  try  to 
forget  my  offences  and  shortcomings  ; and  do  not  speak 
ill  of  me.  You  are  a lucky  girl.’  As  she  was  saying  this 
tears  ran  down  her  cheeks,  she  embraced  the  girl  and 
was  overcome  with  emotion. 

They  bowed  down  at  the  feet  of  the  demoness  and  started 
on  their  homeward  journey.  The  demoness  left  the  palace 
for  good  and  went  away  to  practise  penance.  The  two 
friends  and  their  wives  returned  home  safely.  Lakshml  was 
worshipped  in  pomp.  In  course  of  time  a son  was  born  to 
Vallabh.  The  story  ends  here. 

The  attempts  of  Krsnaramdas  and  other  writers  of 
the  century  were  not  successful  in  the  sense  that  these  new 
‘Mangal’  poems  did  not  catch  the  fancy  of  the  people.  The 
days  of  the  narrative  cult  poetry  were  passing.  The  old  gods 
and  goddesses  no  doubt  continued  to  be  worshipped  as  before 


148 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


but  the  Vaishnav  influence  was  becoming  all-embracing  and 
Vaishnav  songs  guided  the  taste  of  the  literary-minded.  The 
poems  on  local  cults  or  regional  deities  therefore  were 
accepted  only  as  items  in  the  particular  rituals. 

One  other  contribution  by  Krsnaram  should  be  men- 
tioned. He  was  the  first  Bengali  writer  to  use  Hindustani 
to  any  extent.  His  Gazi  speaks  excellent,  though  extremely 
vulgar,  Hindustani. 


13 


THE  ARRAKAN  POETS  AND  THE 
LATER  MUSLIM  WRITERS 


A close  cultural  contact  between  Bengal  and  Arrakan,  the 
neighbouring  province  of  lower  Burma  speaking  a Tibeto- 
Burman  language,  was  first  made  early  in  the  fifteenth 
century  when  Narameikhla,  the  king  of  Arrakan,  disposses- 
sed by  the  king  of  Burma,  came  to  Bengal  and  took  refuge 
in  the  court  of  Gaud  (1404).  After  a sojourn  of  many  years 
he  was  helped  by  Jalaluddin  the  sultan  of  Bengal  to  regain 
his  throne  (1430).  We  can  reasonably  assume  that  the  king 
had  acquired  a liking  for  Bengali  poetry  and  music  among 
other  things  during  his  stay  in  Bengal  and  introduced  them 
in  his  own  country  after  he  returned  home  and  to  power. 
But  there  is  no  evidence  to  show  how  far  this  engrafting  of 
Bengali  culture  in  the  Arrakan  court  was  successful  and 
continuous,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  Arrakan  continued  to 
* be  dominated  politically  by  Bengal  and  its  external  affairs 
were  controlled  by  the  Bengal  governors  in  Chittagong.  The 
position  was  however  reversed  for  some  years  at  least  in  the 
third  quarter  of  the  century  when  the  Arrakan  power 
annexed  Chittagong  and  kept  it  under  its  control  until,  in 
the  first  decade  of  the  sixteenth  century,  it  was  recovered  by 
Nusrat  Shah,  a general  of  Husain  Shah.  During  the  years 
Chittagong  was  in  occupation  by  the  Arrakanese  a very 
close  cultural  contact  between  Bengal  (and  the  rest  of 
India)  and  Arrakan  was  established.  From  this  time 
Bengali  was  accepted  at  the  Arrakan  court  as  the  chief 
cultural  language,  mainly  because  many  of  the  high  officials 
of  Arrakan  came  from  Chittagong  and  the  other  neighbour- 
ing territories  whose  mother-tongue  was  Bengali. 

After  the  overthrow  of  the  dynasty  of  Husain  Shah, 
Arrakan  seems  to  have  regained  its  full  political  indepen- 
dence. But  the  influence  of  the  Bengali  language  did  not 
suffer ; on  the  contrary  it  grew.  The  kings  of  Arrakan 


150 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


henceforth  adopted  a Bengali  form  of  their  names,  and 
sometimes  it  was,  as  in  the  case  of  Thiri  Thu  Dhamma 
(Arrakanese  pronunciation  of  ‘Snsudharma’),  the  only  name 
known  to  us.  The  Bengali  immigrants  or  sojourners  in 
Arrakan  were  mostly  Muslims  ; often  too  the  officials  and 
ministers  were  Bengali  Muslims.  Muslim  influence  in  the 
Arrakan  court  was  therefore  far  from  negligible,  and  as 
happened  quite  often  in  the  seventeenth  century,  the  kings 
took  Muslim  names  as  well.  The  literary  tradition  which 
Paragal  Khan  and  his  son  Nusrat  Khan  had  started  in 
South-east  Bengal  reached  the  court  of  Arrakan  by  the  end 
of  the  sixteenth  century. 

The  people  of  Arrakan  and  their  rulers  had  for  their 
mother-tongue,  Arrakanese,  a Tibeto-Chinese  speech  closely 
connected  to  Burmese,  which  latter  was  outside  the  pale 
of  Aryandom.  But  from  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury the  culture  of  Bengal  began  to  percolate  into  Arrakan 
not  only  through  the  officials  but  also  through  merchants 
and  adventurers  who  came  across  the  sea  or  the  hill  tracts  # 
to  seek  their  fortunes.  In  about  a century  the  court  of 
Arrakan  had  accepted  some  of  the  manners  and  customs  of 
the  Bengali  court.  Bengali  poetry  and  Bengali  dance  and 
music  became  highly  popular  in  the  cultured  section  of 
Arrakan  society. 

So  far  as  we  know,  the  first  Bengali  poet  to  write  under 
the  aegis  of  the  Arrakan  court  was  Daulat  Kazi.  His  patron 
Ashraf  Khan  was  a commanding  officer  of  king  Srisudharma 
(Thiri  Thu  Dhamma)  who  ruled  between  1622  and  1638. 
Ashraf  was  a Sufi  and  so  presumably  was  Daulat  Kazi.  To 
popularize  the  romantic  tales  current  in  West  Indian 
poetry  (Rajasthani,  Gujarati,  Hindi,  Avadhi  and  Bhoj- 
puri),  Ashraf  had  asked  Daulat  to  render  the  story  of  Lor, 
CandranI  and  Mayana  into  Bengali  narrative  poetry  (‘Pan- 
cali’).  The  story  had  been  adopted  in  folk-song  and  dance, 
and  the  mention  of  ‘Lorik  Dance’  in  an  early  fourteenth 
century  Maithil  work  indicates  that  it  was  a popular 


THE  ARRAKAN  POETS  AND  THE  LATER  MUSLIM  WRITERS  151 

amusement  in  North  Bihar  in  the  fourteenth  century. 
The  Lorik  song  is  now  popular  in  South  Bihar  (where  the 
story  has  assumed  the  form  of  a saga),  especially  among  the 
Ahirs.  But  the  story  of  Lorik  as  now  current  in  South  is 
not  its  original  form.  The  story  was  probably  not  very  well 
known  in  Bengal.  Daulat  Kazi  took  it  from  the  old  Rajas- 
thani poem  by  Sadhan,  manuscripts  of  which  have  come  to 
light  recently.  Daulat  Kazi  died  before  he  could  finish  his 
poem.  It  was  completed  years  later  by  Alaol  (1659), 
another  Bengali  poet  from  Arrakan.  The  poem  has  a 
double  title,  Sati  Mayana  and  Lor-Candranl.  The  story  is 
as  follows : 

Lor1,  the  ruler  of  Gohari2,  was  married  happily  to 
Mayana  (or  Mayanamatl).^  After  a time  a yogi  mendicant 
came  to  Lor  and  showed  him  the  potrait  of  CandranI  the 
beautiful  princess  of  Mohara3.  CandranI  had  been  married 
to  a warrior  who  unfortunately  was  a midget.  The  mar- 
riage was  therefore  not  happy.  Lor  was  tempted  to  seek 
the  love  of  the  princess.  He  went  to  Mohara  and  managed 
to  meet  CandranI.  She  reciprocated  Lor’s  feeling  and  the 
lovers  were  united.  Candranl’s  husband  who  had  been 
away  now  returned  home  and  the  couple  had  to  flee  the 
country.  The  husband  gave  chase.  The  two  warriors  met 
in  a forest.  A duel  ensued  which  resulted  in  the  death  of 
Candranl’s  husband.  Candranl’s  father  now  accepted  Lor 
as  his  son-in-law  and  made  over  the  kingdom  to  him. 
Here  ends  the  first  part  of  the  story  ( Lor-Candram ). 

The  scene  now  shifts  to  Lor’s  home  where  his  neglected 
wife  was  pining  for  him.  The  lady’s  only  solace  was  her 
devotion  to  Durga  who  alone  could  bring  back  her  husband. 
Meanwhile  a rich  young  fellow  named  Chatan  had  fallen 
for  Mayana  and  engaged  a woman  to  seduce  her.  The 
woman  came  to  Mayana  and  introduced  herself  as  her  old 


1 Literally,  a young  man  (Hindi  'launda’). 

2 Literally,  a rustic  region  (Hindi  ‘gaoari’). 

3 Literally,  (the  land  of)  enchantment  ( mohakara ). 


152 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


nurse.  She  was  a clever  woman  and  her  words  of  commis- 
eration persuaded  Mayana  of  her  sincerity.  But  when  she 
proposed  a liaison  with  Chatan,  Mayana  became  furious. 
The  woman  was  thrown  out  with  ignominy.  When 
Mayana  was  at  the  end  of  her  tether  she  sent  a trusted 
brahman,  carrying  her  pet  parrot,  in  search  of  her  husband. 
He  travelled  through  many  lands  and  at  last  came  to 
Mohara.  When  Lor  met  him  he  at  once  remembered  his 
forgotten  wife  and  was  all  remorse.  Placing  his  son  on  the 
throne  of  Mohara  he  with  CandranI  returned  home  to 
Mayana.  This  is  the  second  part  of  the  story  ( Sati  Mayana). 

Daulat  Kazi  was  a good  poet ; he  was  thoroughly 
acquainted  with  the  contemporary  poet’s  craft.  His  acquain- 
tance with  Sanskrit  poetry  was  not  superficial.  He  has 
drawn  similies  from  Kalidasa  and  some  metrical  patterns 
from  Jayadeva.  His  indebtedness  to  Vaishnav  poetry  is 
evident. 

The  following  lyric  is  from  a ‘Barmasiya’  song  describing 
the  procuress’s  version  of  Mayana’s  suffering  for  the  absence 
of  her  husband  during  the  month  of  Sravan  (July- August) : 

O Mayana,  the  month  of  Sravan  brings  much  pleasure  ; 
the  soft,  steady  drizzling  excites  passionate  love.  On 
the  earth  flow  streams  of  water  ; the  night  is  black,  and 
a lover  is  engaged  with  his  beloved  in  love’s  sports. 
The  sky  is  dark  ; the  fields  and  meadows  are  green  ; 
the  ten  quarters  are  dark  and  the  daylight  is  dim  and 
and  soft.  The  lightning  dallies  with  the  cloud  lover  ; 
the  night  is  full  of  darkness  and  terror  (outside)  but 
(this  is  the  occasion  for)  enjoying  the  various  sports 
of  love. 

The  season  is  very  seasonable  in  Sravan,  but  how 
can  I pass  the  time  when  Hari  is  not  with  me4. 
The  rivers  are  torrential  ; the  wind  blows  sharp.  This 
kindles  four-fold  the  fire  of  unrequited  passion. 


1 This  is  obviously  an  echo  from  Vaishnav  songs. 


THE  ARRAKAN  POETS  AND  THE  EATER  MUSLIM  WRITERS  153 


You  are  a king’s  daughter,  yet  you  let  yourself  suffer 
for  life.  What  is  the  good  of  still  thinking  yourself  as 
Lor’s  wife? 

(The  poet  says:)  You  should  know  that  the  love 
of  the  true-hearted  is  a garland  that  never  fades.  The 
chief  of  the  commanders,  the  General  (i.e.  Ashraf  Khan), 
is  glorious  in  the  world  (and  he  knows  this). 


Alaol,  another  Sufi  poet  succeeding  Daulat  Kazi  in  the 
court  of  Arrakan,  was  also  a good  scholar.  His  knowledge 
of  Persian  poetry  was  deep,  and  of  Sanskrit  lore  adequate. 
He  was  well  versed  in  music  too.  But  as  a writer  Alaol 
shows  less  facility  and  ingenuity  than  his  predecessor.  He 
was  more  religiously  minded  and  the  religious  strain  in  his 
writings  often  dominated  his  fancy  to  the  detriment  of  his 
poetry. 

Alaol’s  life  was  never  smooth.  He  was  the  son  of  Majlis 
Kutub,  governor  of  a Lower  Bengal  region.  While  the 
father  and  son  were  once  making  a journey  by  boat  they 
were  attacked  by  Portuguese  pirates.  There  was  a fight, 
the  father  was  killed  and  the  son  was  captured  and  sold  as 
an  army  recruit  in  Arrakan.  Alaol  was  taken  in  the 
cavalry.  In  a short  time  the  young  soldier’s  reputation  as 
a scholar  and  master  of  music  spread  around  and  reached  the 
ears  of  Sulaiman,  a minister  of  king  Sricandra  Sudharma 
(reigned  1652-1684),  who  at  once  took  to  the  young  man. 
It  was  at  the  request  of  Sulaiman  that  Alaol  wrote  (1659) 
the  sequel  to  the  unfinished  poem  of  Daulat  Kazi  and 
translated  (1663)  the  religious  treatise  Tuhfa  from  Persian. 

Magan  Thakur5  the  foster-son  of  the  sister  of  Sricandra 
Sudharma  and  co-regent  of  Arrakan,  became  a fast  friend  of 
Alaol.  Two  of  his  poems  including  his  best  work  ( Padjna - 
vati)  were  written  at  the  instance  of  Magan.  Magan  was 

5 The  name  Magan  (literally  ‘obtained  by  begging’)  indicates  that  he 
came  from  a Bengali-speaking  family. 


154 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


inclined  towards  Sufiism.and  as  such  was  an  admirer  of 
Jaisi’s  poetry.  He  requested  Alaol  to  render  Jaisi’s  Padma- 
vati  into  Bengali  verse  so  that  it  might  be  readily  appreciated 
by  the  men  of  Arrakan.  Alaol’s  translation  is  neither  entire 
nor  wholly  faithful.  He  abridged  and  revised  the  story  to 
suit  the  pattern  of  a Bengali  narrative  poem  (‘Pancali’)  and 
also  added  some  extraneous  episodes  and  stories.  The  story 
of  Alaol’s  Padamavati  is  briefly  as  follows: 

Nagasen  was  the  king  of  Chitor.  His  wife  was  NagamatT. 
The  king  came  to  hear  of  the  extraordinary  beauty  of 
Padmavati  the  daughter  of  the  king  of  Ceylon  and  desired 
very  much  to  marry  her.  Dressed  as  a yogi  Nagasen  went  to 
Ceylon,  and  by  showing  his  prowess  and  skill  won  the  hand 
of  the  princess.  When  the  couple  were  returning  home  their 
boat  foundered  in  the  high  sea  but  they  were  saved  by  the 
god  of  ocean.  The  king  came  back  home  and  lived  happily 
with  his  two  wives.  But  he  was  not  destined  to  enjoy  peace 
for  long.  Nagasen’s  courtiers  became  jealous  of  the  favours 
which  the  king  bestowed  on  Raghavcetan,  a Tan  trie  scholar 
with  occult  powers.  They  contrived  to  have  Raghavcetan 
disgraced  before  the  king  and  had  him  banished  from  the 
kingdom.  Padmavati  tried  to  appease  the  pandit  before 
his  banishment  by  offering  him  a bangle  from  her  wrist. 
Raghavcetan  went  to  Delhi  and  showed  the  bangle  to  Sultan 
Alauddin  and  extolled  the  rivishing  looks  of  Padmavati. 
The  sultan  desired  to  possess  her.  He  sent  a messenger  to 
Chitor  to  fetch  Padmavati.  On  being  refused  Alauddin 
attacked  Chitor.  Nagasen  was  defeated  and  taken  a captive 
to  Delhi,  but  Gora  and  Badila  (or  Badal),  two  of  the  most 
loyal  followers  of  Nagasen,  managed  to  get  back  the  king  to 
Chitor. 

While  the  king  was  away  from  Chitor  Deopal  the  king 
of  Kumbhalaner  attempted  to  seduce  Padmavati.  When 
Nagasen  came  back  and  heard  of  this  he  challenged  Deopal 
to  a duel.  Deopal  was  killed  outright  and  Nagasen  was 
mortally  wounded.  Nagamatl  and  Padmavati  died  suttees 


THE  ARRAKAN  POETS  AND  THE  LATER  MUSLIM  WRITERS  155 


and  were  cremated  in  the  same  pyre  with  their  husband. 
The  pyre  was  still  asmoke  when  Alauddin  and  his  army 
entered  Chitor.  On  hearing  the  noble  and  tragic  end  of  the 
royal  family  the  sultan  paid  his  homage  before  the  pyre  and 
returned  to  Delhi. 

Alaol  adapted  in  Bengali  verse  the  story  of  the  Persian 
romance,  Saiful-mulk  badiuj-jamal  at  the  instance  of  Magan 
Thakur.  The  work  was  interrupted  when  Magan  died  and 
it  was  resumed  and  completed  years  later  at  the  request  of 
Saiyad  Muhammad  Musa  who  took  Alaol  under  his  patron- 
age after  prince  Magan’s  death.  At  Musa’s  request  he  also 
rendered  Haft  Paikar  of  Nizami  into  Bengali  verse.  At 
that  time  Shah  Shuja,  son  of  Shahjehan  and  subedar  of 
Bengal,  had  taken  refuge  at  the  Arrakan  court.  Shuja  met 
Alaol  and  the  two  exiles  were  mutually  attracted.  After 
Shuja  had  been  assassinated  Alaol  came  under  suspicion  and 
was  thrown  into  prison  and  his  belongings  were  confis- 
cated. When  he  was  released  after  some  years  he  was  a 
broken  man.  Saiyad  Musa  and  Majlis  Navaraj,  both 
ministers  of  Sricandra  Sudharma  took  care  of  him.  At  the 
request  of  the  Majlis  Alaol  wrote  Dara-sikandar-nama,  a 
Bengali  adaptation  of  Nizami’s  Iskandar-ndmah. 

Alaol  appears  to  be  the  first  Bengali  writer  to  translate 
Persian  poetry.  His  good  knowledge  of  several  languages, 
e.g.  Sanskrit,  Bengali,  Avadhi  and  Persian,  distinguished  his 
style.  His  poetic  fancy  was  not  always  as  original  as  that 
of  Daulat  Kazi,  but  his  achievement  was  more  solid.  The 
following  song  from  Padmavati  illustrates  the  poet’s  alle- 
giance to  the  contemporary  form  of  vernacular  lyric  poetry: 

Ah!  my  heart  breaks.  Awake  or  dreaming  I always  see 
him  unique.  I know  not  how  fate  has  decreed  for  me: 
I obtained  the  touchstone  but  have  lost  it  out  of  care- 
lessness. To  whom  can  I reveal  the  burning  of  my 
heart?  My  sympathetic  friends  would  be  heart-broken 
to  think  of  it.  In  sorrow  my  days  and  nights  drag  on 


156 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


like  ages.  How  can  I live  like  a fish  out  of  water? 
Why  does  my  insufferable  life  stick  to  the  body?  My 
heart  is  as  hard  as  stone  - as  it  does  not  break  under 
such  stress.  Lord  Saiyad  Musa  is  adept  in  wisdom. 
The  pangs  of  love’s  separation  are  sung  by  the  humble 
Alaol. 


Muslim  writers  were  not  impervious  to  the  influence  of  the 
religious  poetry  of  the  Hindus.  Their  first  attempts  at 
writing  religious  narrative  poems  for  their  brothers  in  faith 
frankly  imitated  the  narrative  poems  of  Hindu  authors. 
Such  poems,  dealing  with  the  stories  of  Muhammad  and 
the  earlier  prophets  were  entitled  Nabivamsa  (after  the 
Hindu  Harivamsa)  or  Rasulvijay  (after  the  Hindu  Pandav- 
vijay).  The  older  Muslim  writers  of  such  poems  belonged 
to  Chittagong  and  Sylhet  as  these  two  places  were  the  best 
centres  of  Muslim  literary  culture  in  East  Bengal  from  the 
sixteenth  century. 

Saiyad  Sultan  of  Chittagong  wrote  his  Rasulvijay  (also 
called  Nabivamsa)  in  1654,  and  he  included  some  Hindu 
gods  and  avatars  among  the  prophets.  He  had  also  written 
treatises  on  Yoga  and  some  ‘Vaishnava’  songs.  The 
Bengali  Muslims  had  their  own  Mahabharata  in  the  Jarig- 
nama  (Battle  Stories)  poems  which  described  either  the 
conquest  and  conversion  of  Iran  by  the  followers  of  the 
prophet  or  narrated  the  cruel  fate  of  the  brothers  Hasan  and 
Husain,  the  grandsons  of  the  prophet.  The  latter  story 
being  as  tragic  as  that  of  Abhimanyu  in  the  Mahabharata 
became  very  popular  among  the  Shia  Muslims  of  Bengal.  The 
oldest  Jahgnama  poem  in  Bengali  is  Matulhosen  (Death  of 
Husain)  by  Mohamad  Khan  of  Chittagong.  It  was  written 
at  the  instance  of  the  poet’s  spiritual  master  ( murshid ) Pir 
Shah  Sultan  and  completed  in  1645.  Among  the  other 
writers  of  Jahgnama  poems  from  Chittagong  mention  may 
be  made  of  Nasarullah  Khan  who  wrote  his  poem  towards 


THE  ARRAKAN  POETS  AND  THE  LATER  MUSLIM  WRITERS  157 


the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century  at  the  command  of 
his  murshid  Pir  Hamiduddln,  and  of  Mansur  who  wrote  at 
the  instance  of  Muhammad  Shah. 

The  earliest  known  Muslim  poet  of  North  Bengal  was 
Hayat  Mamud  whose  Jangnama  is  called  also  Maharam- 
parva  (after  the  books  of  the  A lahabharata).  It  was  written 
in  1723.  His  other  works  include  a Bengali  adaptation  of 
a Persian  version  of  Hitopadesa  written  in  1732,  an  Islamic 
theological  treatise  Hitajndnvdm  (Words  of  Good  Know- 
ledge) written  in  1753,  and  Ambiyavam  (Voice  of  the  Pro- 
phets) written  in  1758. 

By  the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century  a literary 
and  cultural  centre  of  the  West  Bengal  Muslims  was  estab- 
lished in  the  Bhursut  (ancient  Bhurisresthi)  region  on  the 
lower  reaches  of  the  Damodar.  The  mid-eighteenth  century 
poet  Bharatcandra  Ray  belonged  to  this  region  and  his 
highly  Persianized  style  of  poetry  reflects  the  influence  of  the 
style  of  the  popular  Muslim  writers  of  that  locality.  The 
most  notable  of  these  local  writers  was  Garibullah  who  in 
all  probability  belonged  to  the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth 
century.  Two  poems  of  Garibullah  have  come  down  to  us. 
One  is  the  version  of  Jangnama  of  Amir  Hamza  and  the 
other  is  Yusuf-Zulekha  based  on  the  Persian  poem  of 
Nuruddin  Jami.  Garibullah  was  followed  by  Saiyad  Hamza 
who  completed  his  predecessor’s  Jangnama  by  writing  the 
second  part  (1792-94).  Before  that  he  had  written  Madhu- 
malati,  a romantic  poem  based  on  a popular  folk-tale. 
Hamza’s  third  poem,  printed  under  the  title  Jaiguner  Puthi 
(Book  of  Zaigun),  is  the  Jangnama  of  Hanifa,  completed  in 
October  1797.  His  last  work  is  Hatem-Tair-Kissa  (Stories  of 
Hatim  Tayyi).  This  poem  was  completed  in  1804. 

The  early  nineteenth  century  Muslim  writers  of  this 
region  are  not  worth  mention  here.  They  wrote  mainly  for 
the  consumption  of  the  illiterate  people  residing  in  Calcutta, 
and  they  drew  largely  from  Persian,  Hindi  and  Urdu  popu- 
lar romances.  Their  language  was  so  much  saturated  with 


158 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Perso-Arabic  and  Hindi  words  that  it  was  often  unintelli- 
gible to  persons  not  acquainted  with  those  tongues.  This 
jargon  was  known  as  Muslim  Bengali.  It  was  a creation  by 
the  West  Bengal  Muslim  writers  and  was  taken  up  by  their 
North  and  East  Bengal  brethren  only  towards  the  close  of 
the  nineteenth  century. 

Muslims  Bengali  poetry  does  not  appear  to  have  been 
cultivated  exclusively  by  Muslims.  Sometimes  a Hindu 
writer  was  commissioned  to  write  on  an  Islamic  theme.  A 
good  instance  is  the  Jangnama  by  Radhacaran  Gop  who 
belonged  to  North-west  Bengal. 

The  influence  of  Hindu  poetry  on  the  Muslim  writers 
was  increasing  so  that  by  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth 
century  we  find  several  Islamic  themes  recast  in  the  Hindu 
mould.  The  very  much  popular  story  of  the  boyhood 
sportiveness  of  the  brothers  Hasan  and  Husain  was  a frank 
imitation  of  the  similar  exploits  of  Krsna  and  Balaram 
narrated  in  the  Krsnamangal  poems.  The  story  of  Haris- 
candra  (in  Dharmamangal ) and  of  Karna  the  Charitable 
(data)  (in  the  eighteenth  century  Krsnamangal  poetry)  had 
its  Muslim  version  in  Islam  Nabi  Keccha  of  Abdul  Matin 
of  Burdwan.  The  latter  part  of  the  story  of  Surajjamal 
by  Abdul  Rahman  of  Faridpur  imitates  the  story  of  Behula 
as  in  the  Manasdmahgal  poems. 

The  Muslim  settlement  of  Sylhet  remained  more  or  less 
in  cultural  isolation.  They  had  never  lost  contact  with 
their  west-country  co-religionists.  They  cultivated  Hindi 
poetry  and  had  kept  up  the  use  of  Kayathi  script  among 
themselves.  In  the  last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century 
books  were  printed  in  this  script  which  was  known  as  the 
Sylhet  Nagari.  The  Muslim  poets  of  Sylhet  preferred 
writing  purely  romantic  narratives  as  well  as  ‘Vaishnav’ 
lyrics  and  mystic  songs. 


The  traditional  stories  of  the  local  Muslim  saints  (‘Pir’) 


THE  ARRAKAN  POETS  AND  THE  LATER  MUSLIM  WRITERS  1 59 


were  woven  with  romantic  tales  to  form  a new  type  of  reli- 
gious poetry  in  West  and  North  Bengal  and  were  responsible 
for  the  emergence  of  a new  deity  called  Satyanarayan 
(i.e.  Haq  the  Narayana)  by  the  Hindus  and  Satya  Plr  (i.e. 
Haq  the  Plr)  by  the  Muslims.  The  writers  of  such  poems 
( Satyapir  Pancali)  were  mostly  Hindus.  The  earliest  tradi- 
tions regarding  the  Muslim  Plrs  in  Bengal  are  recorded  in 
Sekasubhodaya  ( circa  1550)  written  in  a hybrid  language 
which  is  as  much  Sanskrit  as  Bengali.  It  contains  stories 
of  the  spiritual  powers  of  Sheikh  Jalaluddin  who,  as  the 
book  says,  came  to  Bengal  during  the  reign  of  Laksmanasen. 
Some  of  the  stories  and  anectodes  are  very  old.  One  story 
that  is  not  known  elsewhere  says  that  a woman  was  so  much 
enrapt  by  a melody  that  she  mistook  her  infant  son  for  her 
pitcher  and  dropped  him  down  a well  where  she  had 
come  to  fetch  water.  The  story  is  illustrated  in  a terra 
cotta  plaque  from  the  ruins  of  the  eighth  century  temple 
at  Mahasthan.  Sekasubhodaya  has  obviously  utilized  material 
from  an  earlier  work  of  the  same  type. 

At  any  rate  the  tradition  of  the  Plrs  in  Bengal  has  its 
origin  in  the  thirteenth  century.  A few  writers  took  up 
folk-takes  to  illustrate  the  might  of  Satya  Plr.  A North 
Bengal  writer,  Krsnaharidas,  who  wrote  the  biggest  poem 
of  the  genre  at  the  instance  of  a Muslim  landlord,  exploited 
local  traditional  lore.  But  the  majority  of  them  wrote  very 
small  poems  using  the  same  story  that  was  obviously 
modelled  after  the  merchant  episodes  of  Candlmahgal  and 
Manasdmahgal  poetry.  As  literary  products  this  Plr  poetry 
is  totally  valueless,  except  that  it  bears  evidence  of  a wide- 
spread attempt  at  a rapprochement  between  the  two  major 
faiths.  The  new-fangled  deity  Satya-Plr  or  Satya-Narayan 
achieved  high  popularity  in  the  eighteenth  century  and  we 
find  the  best  writers  of  the  century,  Ghanaram  Kaviratna, 
Ramesvar  Bhattacarya  and  Bharatcandra  Ray  writing  short 
Satyanarayan-Pahcali  poems. 


14 


THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY: 
ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS 


The  fabric  of  the  far-flung  Mughal  Empire  which  was 
giving  way  under  the  stress  of  the  military  policy  of 
Aurangzeb  snapped  in  no  time  after  the  death  of  the 
emperor  (1706)  and  Bengal  became  almost  an  independent 
unit  under  the  regime  of  the  provincial  governors  popularly 
known  as  the  Nabobs.  In  the  mean  time  the  interest  of 
the  foreign  powers  engaged  in  trade  was  gradually  becom- 
ing keener  in  the  economic  and  political  life  in  the  lower 
Gangetic  region  which  was  the  nerve  centre  of  the  province. 
These  two  factors,  weakening  of  the  hold  of  Delhi  and  the 
establishment  of  the  foreign  mercantile  houses  along  the 
Hooghly,  combined  to  lay  the  foundations  of  a new  city 
culture  which  had  been  unknown  in  Bengal.  The  Mughal 
administration  had  set  up  zamindar  houses  that  imitated 
the  manners  and  customs  of  the  semi-independent  ruling 
houses  of  the  earlier  days  and  extended  a half-hearted 
patronage  to  poets  and  scholars  more  as  a matter  of  form 
than  preference.  The  best  known  writers  of  the  century 
(other  than  Vaishnav)  enjoyed  such  patronage.  Ghanaram’s 
patron  was  Kirtticandra  of  Burdwan,  Ramesvar  wrote  under 
direction  from  Rajaram  Singh  of  Midnapore  and  Bharat- 
candra  was  a protege  of  Krsnacandra  Ray  of  Krishnagar. 

In  the  latter  half  of  the  century  when  the  British  power 
was  established  Calcutta  became  the  centre  of  administra- 
tion, commerce  and  culture.  Commercial  and  administra- 
tive connection  with  the  British  was  exceedingly  profitable 
to  some  Bengalis  who  were  settled  in  or  near  Calcutta. 
Some  of  these  nouveaux  riche  came  forward  as  supporters 
of  the  new  semi-literary  and  cultural  trends  that  emerged 
in  Calcutta  and  the  other  townships  along  the  Hooghly, 
starting  from  Murshidabad. 

One  of  the  main  literary  tendencies  that  was  gathering 

\ 


EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY  : ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS  161 

force  from  the  beginning  of  the  century  was  the  formation 
of  a prose  style.  Little  headway  could  however  be  made 
in  this  direction  till  the  beginning  of  the  next  century 
when  Bengali  printing,  became  well  established  and  the 
necessity  of  practical  and  literary  prose  began  to  be  very 
seriously  felt.  It  was  the  Vaishnavs  of  the  earlier  century 
who  had  attempted  a kind  of  prose  in  some  of  their  esoteric 
and  catechisinal  treatises.  But  theirs  was  a kind  of  synco- 
pated and  minced  diction  resembling  the  Sutra  style  of 
Sanskrit  and  lying  midway  between  poetry  and  prose.  The 
Portuguese  missionaries  and  their  Catholic  converts  in 
Bengal  took  up  the  cue  from  the  Vaishnav  treatises  and 
wrote  catechisms  in  Bengali  prose. 

This  was  real  prose  but  the  style  was  not  smooth  and 
the  diction  was  full  of  foreign  idioms  and  expressions. 
The  influence  of  the  dialect  of  East  Bengal,  which  was  the 
main  sphere  of  activity  of  Catholic  Christianity  in  the  late 
seventeenth  and  the  early  eighteenth  centuries,  is  strongly 
noticeable.  The  best  specimen  of  this  early  Christian  prose 
is  available  to  us  in  the  treatise  by  Dom  Antonio,  a native 
Christian  from  Dacca.  The  work,  which  was  never  printed, 
is  in  the  form  of  a dialogue  between  a brahman  and  a 
Roman  Catholic  priest,  the  latter  seeking  to  establish  the 
superiority  of  Christianity  over  Hinduism.  The  other 
important  work  of  this  type  is  Xrepar  Xaxtrer  Orth,  bhed 1 
by  Manoel  da  Assumpsam  who  wrote  it  in  Dacca  in  1734, 
and  printed  it  nine  years  later  in  Roman  type  in  Lisbon 
together  with  the  Portuguese  Original  Cathecismo  da 
Boutrina  Christao.  In  the  same  year  (1743)  was  published 
his  Bengali  Grammar  in  Portuguese  with  a Bengali-Portu- 
guese  Vocabulary.  The  habit  of  verse  writing  in  Bengali 
however  was  so  strong  that  even  these  Christian  writers 
could  not  help  occasional  lapses  into  versification  and  adding 
distichs  at  the  end  of  their  treatises. 


It  means  ‘The  Meaning  and  Implication  of  the  Scripture  of  Mercy’. 

11 


162 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Persian  was  the  official  language  of  the  Mughal  adminis- 
tration and  so  it  had  to  be  learnt  even  by  a brahman  if  he 
had  an  ambition  to  do  well  in  life.  As  a consequence  less 
and  less  attention  was  given  to  Sanskrit,  and  so  it  came 
about  that  by  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century  even 
Sanskrit  pundits  and  learned  Vaidyas  (i.e.  native  physi- 
cians) would  find  it  more  convenient  to  have  their  handbooks 
in  Bengali  translation  rather  than  in  the  Sanskrit  originals. 
Thus  came  into  existence  the  priest’s  handbook,  the 
pundit’s  elementary  book  of  logic  and  the  physician’s  vade 
mecum,  all  in  abridged  form  and  in  Bengali  prose.  It  was 
this  style  of  the  pundits  that  reappeared  in  the  early  nine- 
teenth century  prose  of  the  Fort  William  College  teachers 
and  of  Rammohan  Ray,  to  be  polished  and  standardized 
later  by  the  efforts  of  Iswarcandra  Vidyasagar  and  his  con- 
temporaries. The  popular  prose  style  which  appears  in 
epislotary  communication  and  in  documents  differed  from 
the  pundit’s  style  in  having  less  of  unfamiliar  dictionary 
words  and  more  of  popular  Perso-Arabic  words  and  phrases, 
and  it  cannot  be  denied  that  the  popular  style  was  the  living 
style  as  it  was  closer  to  everyday  speech  than  was  the 
pundit’s  diction.  The  popular  style  was  cultivated  by 
Kayasthas  as  it  was  they  who  took  to  Persian  learning  more 
than  any  other  caste  or  group.  Ramram  Vasu,  the  venacular 
teacher  of  William  Carey  and  the  author  of  Raja  Pratapa- 
ditya-caritra  (1801)  and  Lipimala  (1802),  two  of  the  best 
textbooks  that  were  prepared  for  the  British  writer-students 
of  the  College  of  Fort  William  in  Calcutta,  was  the  first 
notable  prose  writer  employing  the  popular  (or  the  ‘Munshi’) 
:style. 

As  a counterblast  to  the  growing  domination  of  the 
Muslim  court  culture  through  the  centuries  the  grip  of 
orthodoxy  was  tightening — from  which  Vaishnavism  offered 
a way  of  escape  for  a time  ; but  by  the  eighteenth  century 
Vaishnav  orthodoxy  had  become  no  less  rigid  than  the 
brahman ical.  As  a reaction  new  faiths  appeared,  faiths  that 


EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY:  ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS  163 


sprung  from  Vaishnav  heterodoxy  and  tried  to  ignore  caste, 
creed  and  formality  in  religion.  The  supremacy  of  the 
brahmans  was  the  special  target  of  their  offensive,  even 
though  some  of  their  leaders  were  themselves  brahmans. 
This  spirit  of  challenge  was  tinged  with  a critical  attitude 
of  disbelief  which  sometimes  also  assailed  the  orthodox 
faiths  and  beliefs.  Such  a modernistic  outlook  is  not  alto- 
gether absent  in  the  most  representative  writer  of  the 
century,  Bharatcandra,  who  was  an  orthodox  brahman  but 
at  the  same  time  very  well  read  in  Persian.  Bharatcandra 
wrote  a big  ‘Mahgala’  poem,  and  it  was  a ‘Maiigala’  poem 
to  end  all  poems  of  that  genre.  His  pen  tried  to  sketch 
gods  but  succeeded  sometimes  only  in  turning  out  carica- 
tures, in  spite  of  his  more  than  full  command  over  the  then 
poet’s  craft.  This  was  because  he  lacked  the  faith  of  his 
early  predecessors.  It  was  Ramananda  YatT  who  expressed 
unmistakable  scepticism  in  the  introductory  portion  of  his 
Candlmangal  (1766)  where  he  challenges  the  veracity  of 
Mukundaram’s  claim  that  Candi  had  appeared  to  him  on 
his  way  to  Adada.  To  quote  Ramananda  in  translation: 

If  Candi  did  appear  how  could  it  have  been  told  in  a 
narrative  poem?  Only  people  who  lack  common  sense 
say  that  it  is  quite  true  that  Candi  had  appeared  to  the 
way-farer.  To  remove  such  incorrectness  and  to  impart 
sense  to  the  people  Ramananda  Yati  writes  this  poem 
on  Candi  at  requests  from  many  quarters.  Please  do 
not  take  offence,  anybody ; I have  the  approval  of 
many. 

Ramananda  was  a pundit  and  a sannyasin  with  many 
disciples.  He  wrote  several  treatises  on  Yoga  and  Tantrism 
and  commentaries  in  Sanskrit.  His  only  other  wrork  in 
Bengali  is  a Ramayana  poem  (1762)  where  he  mentions  the 
work  of  Tulsidas. 

As  regards  the  general  output  the  eighteenth  century 
saw  a continuation  of  the  seventeenth.  There  was  no  break 


164 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


in  the  mass  production  of  Vaishnav  songs  and  biographies  and 
in  the  repetition  of  narrative  poetry  on  the  various  deities. 

Among  Vaishnav  biographical  works  two  are  of  out- 
standing importance:  Narahari  Cakravarti’s  Bhaktiratnakar 
(vicariously  an  encyclopaedia  of  Vaishnav  lore)  and  Laldas’s 
Bhaktamal  (a  biographical  encyclopaedia  based  on  the 
Brajabuli  poem  by  Nabhaji  and  its  commentary  by  Priyadas). 
Among  the  notable  productions  of  the  narrative  (‘Maiigal’) 
poetry  are  included  the  Dharmamangal  poems  by  Ghanaram 
Cakravarti  entitled  Kaviratna  (Jewel  of  Poets),  and  by 
Manikram  Gangull,  written  in  1711  and  1781  respectively. 
Ghanaram  wrote  in  a chaste  style  while  Manikram  preferred 
the  colloquial.  Both  works  contain  aphoristic  lines  in  plenty, 
which  was  really  a peculiarity  of  the  verse  style  in  the 
eighteenth  century. 

An  outstanding  work  is  Ramesvar  Bhattacarya’s  Siva- 
sankirttan  (1710).  The  poem  deals  with  the  same  topic  as 
in  the  introductory  part  of  Candimangal  of  Mukundaram, 
but  the  treatment  here  is  entirely  popular  and  the  style  is 
in  conformity.  The  theme  in  popular  poetry  had  been 
largely  amorous  but  Ramesvar  produced  very  successfully 
a ‘chaste  poem’  (‘bhadra  kavya’)  out  of  it.  In  spite  of  his 
unpretentious  poem  Ramesvar’s  claim  as  one  of  the  best  poets 
of  the  century  is  unassailable.  His  power  of  observation  is 
keen  and  his  sympathy  almost  overflowing.  Ramesvar’s  poem 
bears  ample  evidence  of  a very  low  level  of  agrarian  economy 
in  South-west  Bengal  which  had  been  always  a purely  rice- 
producing  area.  His  hero  (Siva)  is  therefore  delineated  as 
a very  poor  farmer  and  his  heroine  (Gauri)  a poor  farmer’s 
wife  who  would  be  satisfied  with  two  square  meals  a day  and 
a few  yards  of  sari  to  clothe.  But  the  poet’s  faith  was  not 
shaky.  In  sincerity  also  Ramesvar’s  poem  is  one  of  the  best 
of  the  century,  if  indeed  it  is  not  the  best. 

Bharatcandra  Ray  entitled  Gunakar  (Mine  of  Virtuosity) 
is  the  only  poet  of  pre-modern  Bengali  literature  whose  whole 
career  is  known  to  us.  He  was  born  some  time  about  1712 


EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY:  ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS  165 


in  a brahman  zamindar  family  in  the  Bhursut  area  of  South 
Radha.  As  was  then  customary,  Bharatcandra  was  married 
in  his  teens.  For  an  unknown  reason  he  left  home  before  he 
had  completed  his  studies  and  came  to  a village  near 
Hooghly,  where  he  lived  for  some  years  and  read  Sanskrit 
and  Persian.  His  earliest  attempts  in  Bengali,  two  very  short 
poems  on  the  deity  Satya-Narayan,  were  written  here  (1737). 
On  his  return  home  he  was  directed  by  his  father  to  assist 
him  in  the  management  of  their  dwindling  estate  which  was 
lease-hold  property  under  the  Raja  of  Burdwan.  Just  after 
the  death  of  Raja  Kirtticandra  (1740)  the  estate  of  the  poet’s 
father  was  confiscated  on  some  pretext  by  the  manager  of  the 
Burdwan  raja.  Bharatcandra  came  to  Burdwan  to  appeal  to 
the  widow  of  Kirtticandra.  But  the  manager  was  too  much 
for  him.  Before  he  could  put  forward  his  appeal  Bharat- 
candra was  put  in  prison.  He  somehow  managed  to  escape 
from  goal  and  took  the  main  road  to  Orissa.  He  came  to 
Cuttack  and  thence  to  Puri  where  he  stayed  for  some  time 
and  was  initiated  into  Vaishnav  mendicancy.  Then  he  set 
out  for  Brindavan,  but  on  the  way  he  was  recognized  by 
a relative  and  taken  to  his  father-in-law’s  place  and  from 
there  sent  home.  As  it  was  no  longer  a home  of  plenty  and 
comfort  and  as  he  was  not  exactly  welcome  as  a prodigal  son, 
Bharatcandra  had  soon  to  go  out  again  and  seek  his  fortune. 
He  came  to  Chundernagore  and  found  employment  under 
the  local  agent  of  the  French  government.  Appreciating  his 
literary  qualities  the  agent  introduced  him  to  Raja  Krsna- 
candra  Ray  of  Krishnagar  who  was  then  one  of  the  best 
patrons  of  brahman  scholars.  The  Raja  made  him  his  court 
poet  on  a decent  salary  and  gave  him  farm  lands  and  had 
him  settled  at  Mulajor  on  the  Hooghly.  The  poet  brought 
his  old  father  to  live  with  him  and  also  the  family  deities. 
He  had  no  further  connection  with  his  old  home.  Bharat- 
candra died  in  1760  at  the  age  of  forty-eight. 

Under  the  tegis  of  Krsnacandra  the  poet  first  compiled 
(some  time  before  1750)  Rasamanjari,  an  erotico-rhetorical 


166 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


work  based  on  a Sanskrit  text,  and  then  wrote  his  magnum 
opus  Annadamahgal  or  Annapurnamarigal  (Eulogy  of  the 
Food-giving  Goddess)  which  was  completed  in  1753.  Annada- 
mahgal is  really  a trilogy  comprising  three  practically  inde- 
pendent poems:  Annadamahgal  proper  (describing  the  story 
of  Siva  and  Parvati  with  the  addition  of  the  poet’s  original 
episode  of  Parvati  becoming  the  Food-giving  goddess  by 
offering  cooked  food  to  famished  Siva),  Vidydsundar  (an 
erotic  romance)  and  Mansimha  (an  historical  romance  on  the 
conflict  of  Jahangir  with  Pratapaditya  of  Jessore).  The  first 
was  written  in  support  of  the  worship  of  the  Food-giving  deity 
instituted  by  the  poet’s  patron  Krsnacandra.  The  second 
treats  what  was  then  the  most  popular  theme  of  amorous 
poetry  favoured  by  the  high  society  in  the  townships  along 
the  Hooghly.  The  third  was  intended  to  glorify  the  founder 
of  the  family  of  Krsnacandra.  For  the  treatment  of  the 
story  of  Siva  and  Parvati,  Bharatcandra  is  deeply  indebted 
to  Ramesvar  Bhattacarya.  Ramesvar  also  belonged  to  South 
Radha,  and  his  poem  must  have  been  familiar  to  him. 

Bharatcandra’s  narration  of  the  story  of  Vidya  and 
Sundar  is  recognized  as  his  best  achievement.  He  had  several 
predecessors  in  the  field,  including  a Muslim  and  a Hindu 
poet  from  Chittagong,2 3  and  more  than  a couple  of  followers,® 
but  his  poem  supersedes  them  all.  For  well  nigh  a century 
Bharatcandra’s  Vidydsundar  dominated  the  poetic  literature 
of  the  Calcutta  region.  Even  as  late  as  the  sixth  decade  of 
the  nineteenth  century  when  English  literature  was  not 
unknown  to  the  educated  Bengali,  Bharatcandra  was  regarded 
as  the  best  poet  of  Bengal.  The  printed  literature  of  the  first 
half  of  the  nineteenth  century  largely  consisted  of  the  various 


2 The  former  (Shah  Birid  Khan)  belonged  lo  the  seventeenth  and  the 
latter  (Govindadas)  to  the  early  eighteenth  century.  SrTdhar’s  and  Krsnaram’s 
poems  have  been  previously  mentioned.  Balaram  CakravartT  also  was  a 
predecessor  of  Bharatcandra. 

3 These  include  Radhakanta  MiSra  of  Calcutta  (1767),  Ramprasad  Sen 
Kaviranjan,  Nidhiram  CakravartT  Kavicandra  and  Madhusudan  CakravartT 
Kavindra  (1842). 


EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY  : ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS  167 


editions  (prices  varying  from  rupee  one  to  one  anna)  and 
imitations  of  Bharatcandra’s  poem. 

The  story  of  Vidya  and  Sundar  is  briefly  this:  Vidya 
was  the  beautiful  and  accomplished  daughter  of  king  Vira- 
simha  who  had  no  other  issue.  She  had  vowed  that  she  would 
marry  only  the  man  that  would  beat  her  in  academic  contest. 
Sundar,  the  only  son  of  king  Gunasindhu  came  to  win  the 
hand  of  the  princess.  He  obtained  lodging  in  the  home  of 
a woman  Hira  who  was  the  florist  to  Vidya.  The  woman 
acting  as  the  go-between  arranged  contact  between  the  prince 
and  the  princess.  By  the  grace  of  goddess  Kali,  Sundar 
succeeded  in  digging  an  underground  passage  from  his 
lodging  house  to  Vidya’s  quarters  in  the  king’s  palace.  The 
lovers  met  every  night  and  Vidya  became  enceinte.  When 
the  fact  became  known  to  her  parents,  they  scolded  her  and 
set  about  to  catch  the  unknown  lover.  The  ingenuity  of  the 
police  chief  traced  the  clues  to  Sundar  and  he  was  ordered 
by  the  king  to  be  put  to  death.  When  he  was  being  led  to 
the  execution  ground  Sundar  prayed  to  Kali  and  it  so 
happened  that  a man  who  knew  Sundar  as  the  son  of  a king 
came  there.  On  being  properly  identified  Sundar  was 
released  and  married  to  the  princess.  A son  was  born  to 
them.  After  some  time  Sundar  returned  home  with  his 
wife  and  son. 

In  the  poem  Mansimha,  Bharatcandra  occasionally  shows 
a style  that  abounds  in  Persian  and  Hindi  vocables  and 
idioms.  This  style  was  not  his  innovation  as  is  generally 
believed  but  is  an  adaptation  of  the  diction  that  the  Muslim 
writers  of  Bharatcandra’s  homeland  used.  Bharatcandra 
knew  this  poetry  and  he  possessed  good  knowledge  of  Persian, 
Hindi  and  Oriya.  The  subject-matter  of  the  poem  being 
mainly  concerned  with  the  Mughal  court  and  administration 
it  was  not  wholly  unexpected  that  the  poet  should  use,  as 
occasion  demanded,  the  Hindustani  style  (known  to  the 
contemporary  European  as  the  language  of  the  Moors) 
instead  of  the  pure  Bengali  style  as  in  the  other  two  poems. 


168 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Bharatcandra’s  trilogy  contains  a number  of  songs  which 
resemble  the  Vaishnav  lyrics  in  spirit  and  content  but  differ 
from  them  in  structure  and  in  freshness.  The  best  exercise 
of  Bharatcandra’s  talent  as  a poet  is  to  be  found  in  these 
songs.  A specimen  in  translation: 

I cannot  stay  at  home.  My  heart  aches.  My  heart 
comes  out  at  the  sharp  call  of  the  cuckoo.  I will  meet 
my  lover  Syam  the  prince  and  will  sell  myself  at  his 
lotus  feet.  Thinking  of  this,  Bharat  is  surging  with 
emotion.  The  affaire  de  cceur  is  not  unknown  to 
people,  and  the  girl  friends  talk  about  it.  Who  can 
sacrifice  herself  and  stand  so  much?  If  social  standing 
and  family  prestige  go,  let  them!  Who  cares?  He 
alone  in  India  is  blessed  who  is  loved  by  Syam. 

In  another  respect  also  the  poet  was  true  to  the  spirit 
of  his  time.  From  the  beginning  of  the  century,  if  not 
earlier,  topical  subjects  (generally  humorous)  drew  the 
attention  of  the  unsophisticated  writers.  Bharatcandra  was 
not  unaware  of  the  vogue  which  had  not  yet  been  recog- 
nized in  high  (i.e.  traditional)  poetry.  Accordingly  he 
wrote  in  a humorous  vein  a few  very  short  poems  (con- 
taining two  or  four  distichs)  on  such  subjects  as  the  seasons, 
the  wind,  desire,  Krsna  to  Radha,  Radha  to  Krsna,  the 
weasel,  the  flatterer,  etc.  One  such  poem  is  written  in 
Hindustani  and  another  is  a macaronic  composition  employ- 
ing four  languages:  Sanskrit,  Bengali,  Persian  and  Hin- 
dustani. Bharatcandra  could  write  good  verses  in  Sanskrit 
also,  the  best  instance  of  which  is  the  ‘Octet  on  the  Nag’ 
(. Nagastaka ).  This  poem  in  eight  stanzas  was  written  as 
an  appeal  to  the  poet’s  patron  when  one  Ramclev  Nag,  an 
agent  of  the  Raja  of  Burdwan,  attempted  to  oust  the  poet 
from  the  lands  granted  to  him  by  Krsnacandra.  There  is 
a clever  pun  on  the  words  ‘naga’  and  ‘Krsna’.  Just  as  the 
people  of  Vraja  had  appealed  to  Krsna  when  the  waters  of 
the  Yamuna  were  infested  by  the  serpent  Kaliya,  so  did 


EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY  : ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS  169 


the  poet  now  appeal  to  Krsna  (-candra)  for  relief  against  the 
oppression  of  (Ramdev)  Nag. 

Following  a practice  of  the  day  Bharatcandra  attempted 
to  write  a play  in  Sanskrit  with  vernacular  songs  inter- 
spersed. The  subject-matter  was  the  puranic  story  of  the 
killing  of  the  buffalo  demon  by  Candi,  but  the  poet  died 
before  he  could  proceed  beyond  the  prologue. 

Ramprasad  Sen  Kaviranjan  belonged  to  Kumarhatta,  a 
place  about  25  miles  from  Calcutta  up  the  Hooghly.  His 
Vidyasundar  was  written  some  time  in  the  sixth  or  seventh 
decade  of  the  century.  The  influence  of  Bharatcandra  is 
noticeable  in  it.  In  style  and  characterization  Ramprasad  is 
inferior  to  his  predecessor  but  in  poetic  fancy  he  is 
undoubtedly  superior.  Ramprasad’s  humour  is  less  objec- 
tionable. His  other  works  include  Kalikirttan  and  the 
fragmentary  Krsnakirttan.  These  poems  were  written  in 
the  form  of  the  new  ‘Pancali’  style  that  had  developed  from 
the  older  ‘Kirttan’  style. 

There  are  a number  of  very  popular  devotional  songs 
of  the  Mother  Goddess  bearing  the  signature  of  Ramprasad. 
The  simple  and  appealing  melody  associated  with  these  songs 
is  also  attributed  to  the  poet  who  was  looked  upon  as  a 
saint.  But  this  melody  and  the  songs  pertaining  to  it  were 
probably  the  work  of  another  Ramprasad  (a  brahman) 
belonging  to  Calcutta  who  was  reputed  as  a composer  of 
‘Kabi’  songs.  This  Ramprasad  was  a younger  contem- 
porary of  the  first  (who  was  a Vaidva).  The  songs  are  purely 
devotional,  being  appeals  to  God  the  Mother,  couched  in 
the  words  of  a wayward  but  repentant  child.  There  is  little 
else,  and  the  very  high  praise  accorded  to  these  songs  by 
some  critics  is  more  due  to  the  devotional  appeal  and  to  a 
reaction  against  the  over-emphasis  on  the  Vaishnav  songs 
than  to  any  profundity  of  thought  or  newness  of  expres- 
sion. The  sentiments  evoked  by  the  songs  are  a combina- 
tion of  homely  affection  and  pure  devotion  and  therefore 


170 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


their  appeal  is  irresistible.  The  poet-devotee’s  outlook  cart 
be  illustrated  by  one  of  his  best-known  songs: 

O my  heart,  you  know  not  the  farmer’s  way  of  work. 
This  your  person,  an  excellent  area  of  land,  is  lying: 
fallow  and  it  would  have  produced  wealth  if  it  had  been 
properly  cultivated.  Fence  it  in  with  the  name  of 
Kali  and  there  will  not  be  any  loss  of  the  crop— it  is 
the  strong  fence  of  the  Goddess  with  the  loose  tresses, 
and  even  Death  dare  not  come  near  it.  Do  you  nor 
know  that  the  plot  is  sure  to  be  confiscated,  be  it  today 
or  a century  hence?  And  it  is  on  mortgage.  So,  O' 
my  heart!  do  you  cultivate  the  field  and  harvest  the 
crop  to  the  last  sheaf.  Sowing  the  seed  lent  by  the 
guru,  do  you  irrigate  with  the  water  of  Devotion.  If 
you  cannot  do  all  this  alone,  O my  heart!  you  may 
well  take  Ramprasad  as  a help. 


As  the  religious  interest  and  the  ritualistic  substance  in 
religious  poetry  was  wearing  thinner  and  thinner  the  literary 
tendencies  were  seeking  new  outlets  from  the  time-worn 
patterns  of  narrative  poetry  and  Vaishnav  lyrics,  and  poetry 
and  music  were  seeking  a divorce  which  was  long  overdue. 
The  separation  did  not  actually  take  place,  however,  till  the 
middle  of  the  next  century  when  the  printing  press  had 
made  poetry  cheaply  available  to  the  reading  public  and 
when  English  education  had  cleared  the  vision  for  a truer 
perspective  of  literature.  But  the  new  tendencies  were 
gathering  force  by  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century. 
As  a result  we  get,  on  the  one  hand,  short  poems  on  romantic 
love  or  on  historical  and  topical  subjects  and  on  the  other, 
short  secular  love  songs.  There  were  several  attempts,  how- 
ever, at  a compromise  between  the  old  ways  and  the  new 
vogues.  This  is  exemplified  in  the  so-called  ‘Kabi’  poetry 
and  in  the  new  ‘Pancali’  which  came  into  existence  towards 


EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY:  ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS  171 


the  close  of  the  century.  For  more  than  half  a century  the 
‘Kabi’  poetry  and  the  .new  Pancali  reigned  supreme  in  the 
Calcutta  region  and  in  its  penumbra  and  almost  threatened 
to  swamp  the  promise  of  a literary  revival.  But  the  vulgar 
artificiality  of  ‘Kabi’  poetry  with  its  elaborate  but  soulless 
music  was  doomed  from  its  very  inception.  The  new 
‘Pancali’  survived  till  it  was  superseded  towards  the  close  of 
the  nineteenth  century  by  the  vogue  of  Bengali  drama  and 
the  new  ‘Yatra’  (musical  play)  based  on  it. 

The  verse  tales  that  came  into  currency  could  not  at 
once  discard  their  pseudo-religious  frame  which  tradition 
demanded.  So  even  the  tales  including  those  taken  from 
the  Vikramaditya-Bhoja  saga  and  other  folk-lore  were  treated 
as  Agama* 4  or  couched  in  the  form  of  panegyric5  to  Satya-Pir,. 
Kali,  the  sun  god,  or  the  goddess  of  learning.  There  were 
also  secular  tales,  frankly  amorous  and  without  any  veneer 
of  adventure.  Some  of  the  themes  of  such  tales  were  a 
common  stock  in  the  eastern  region.  For  instance,  the  story 
of  Saruf’s  Daminlcaritra  (known  in  a manuscript  of  the  late 
eighteenth  century)  is  current  in  Assam  as  well  as  in  western 
Bihar.  It  was  the  Muhammedan  writers  who  distinguished 
themselves  in  such  secular  tales  in  verse.  Saruf,  if  his  name 
is  not  a corruption  of  Svarup,  must  have  been  a Muham- 
medan. Khalil,  the  author  of  the  tale  of  CandramukhI,6 
certainly  was  one.  Such  tales,  narrated  or  sung  in  the  style 
of  the  old  narrative  poetry,  have  been  popular  in  north-east 
Bengal  till  very  recently.  Khalil’s  poem  is  one  of  the  best 
and  least  adulterated  specimens  of  this  kind  of  narrative 
poetry. 

Among  the  historical  poems  the  best  known  (though 
trivial  as  a literary  piece)  is  Maharastra  Puran  by  Gangaram. 
The  name  is  pretentious  but  the  work  is  a small  poem  of 
less  than  a couple  of  hundred  lines.  It  describes  one  of  the 

1 A Tantrist  narrative  treatise  which  is  put  in  the  form  of  Siva  speak- 

ing to  ParvatT. 

5 Short  poems  of  the  Marigala’  type. 

6 Published  from  Sylhet  in  Svlhet  NagarT  characters  (1877). 


172 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


worst  raids  in  West  Bengal  led  by  the  Maratha  chief 
Bhaskar  Pandit  which  ended  in  his  assassination.  The 
author  was  a contemporary  if  not  actually  an  eye-witness. 
As  an  historical  document  Gaiigaram’s  poem  has  some  value. 

The  other  historical  poems  were  all  written  towards  the 
close  of  the  century  or  by  the  beginning  of  the  next.  These 
are  mostly  short  ballads  on  local  incidents  and  topical 
matters  and  belong  properly  to  folk-poetry.  As  specimens 
of  unorthodox  and  rugged  verse  some  of  these  poems  are  not 
uninteresting.  For  instance  the  ‘Song  of  the  Road’  by 
Radhamohan  realistically  records  the  plight  of  the  forced 
labour  that  was  secured  by  Warren  Hastings  in  laying  out  the 
trunk  road  from  Salkia  to  Candalgarh.  To  quote  some  lines: 

Leaving  the  ploughs  uncared  for  in  the  fields  the 
ploughmen  ran  away.  Hundreds  of  men  had  come  to 
recruit  forced  labour.  They  were  as  irresponsible  as 
the  devotee-recruiting  fellows  (for  the  Siva  worship)  in 
the  month  of  Caitra  ; they  requisitioned  the  services  of 
all  and  sundry  and  belaboured  them  and  forced  them 
by  physical  chastisement  if  necessary  to  work  on  the 
road.  Canes  in  hand,  they  deal  blows  indiscriminately 
and  for  fear  of  the  chastisement  the  navvies  wear  them- 
selves out.  They  allow  the  labourers  no  food  and  no 
rest  till  sundown  when  they  are  let  off.  With  shovels 
on  back  and  a big  basket  in  hand  the  navvies  wearily 
move  on  to  rest.  In  the  dusk  when  the  rations  are 
distributed  there  is  a hubbub  ; the  navvies  are  stung 
by  acute  hunger  and  in  impatience  they  shout  the  name 
of  God.  Their  cry  fetches  the  ration  clerk  accom- 
panied by  his  assistant  who  doles  out  the  rations.  At 
the  sight  of  the  rations  the  navvies  sit  down  in  single 
file.  As  they  receive  the  dole  they  move  away  quickly 
munching  fried  rice,  and  then  they  run  together  to  the 
tank  to  drink.  Their  hunger  and  thirst  thus  relieved 
they  stretch  themselves  on  the  dust.  Their  sleep  is 


EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY:  ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS  173 


disturbed  by  ant-bites  and  in  uneasiness  they  turn  sides 
continually. 

Another  ballad  written  by  a contemporary  village  versi- 
fier from  North  Bengal  is  worth  mention.  On  the  recom- 
mendation of  the  British  collector  of  the  district  Mr. 
Goodlad,  a local  zamindar  had  appointed  some  one  as  his 
manager  (Dewan)  in  Rangpur  whom  the  ryots  did  not  like — 
they  wanted  one  Ramvallabh  Ray  in  the  post.  They  in  a 
body  approached  the  collector  to  have  the  appointment  can- 
celled. The  collector  was  ill  at  ease.  He  asked  his  office 
superintendent  as  to  how  he  should  proceed  in  the  matter. 
The  superintendent  gave  the  only  sensible  advice.  To 
quote  the  author  Krsnahari  Das : 

The  Dewan  replied : Ryots  may  do  anything ; they 
may  raise  one  high  up  to  heaven  and  may  cast  one 
down  to  death.  It  is  the  ryots  that  account  for  the 
wealth  of  the  land:  the  golden  bangles  you  see  every- 
body wearing  are  paid  for  by  the  ryots’  money. 

The  collector  had  the  good  sense  to  withdraw  his 
recommendation  and  appoint  Ramvallabh  Ray  the  nominee 
of  the  ryots  as  the  manager  of  the  estate. 

Towards  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century  Vaishnav  poetry 
had  been  declining.  Yet  it  remained  as  the  most  acceptable 
form  of  poetry  mainly  because  its  music  was  still  vigorous 
and  its  possibilities  had  not  yet  been  exhausted.  But  even 
that  could  not  stave  off  the  stagnation  of  the  Kirttan  poetry 
in  the  next  century.  The  limited  theme  in  Vaishnav  poetry 
was  wearing  thin  and  in  consequence  the  popular  lyric 
poetry  (rather  songs)  of  the  late  eighteenth  century  had  little 
connection  with  the  story  of  the  love  of  Radha  and  Krsna. 
It  is  quite  true  that  the  names  Krsna  and  Radha  are  not 
absent  in  many  of  them.  But  the  names  here  are  really 


174 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


aliases  of  mundane  lovers.  In  form  the  new  lyrics  (songs) 
differ  entirely  from  the  old.  The  diction  has  become  some- 
what free  and  easy,  though  verbose,  and  the  verse  lines  of 
a lyric  generally  have  a single  rhyme.  By  the  beginning  of 
the  nineteenth  century  the  lyric  songs  had  been  much 
reduced  in  form,  the  shortest  containing  not  more  than  four 
lines  of  verse.  Bharatcandra,  the  poet  of  the  century,  had 
been  fully  alive  to  the  value  of  the  new  lyric  type,  and  his 
very  big  narrative  poem  includes  more  than  fifty  such  songs. 
Some  of  these  contain  the  best  lines  he  ever  wrote. 

Perhaps  the  earliest  of  the  eighteenth  century  writers 
to  put  Vaishnav  lyrics  in  the  new  and  popular  form  were 
Lalcandra  and  Nandalal.  The  oldest  of  the  ‘Kabiwallah’-s, 
the  two  are  believed  to  have  been  brothers.  Most  of  their 
songs  were  written  jointly  and  as  such  they  bear  their  joint 
signature.  But  by  far  the  best  writer  of  love  songs  was 
Ramnidhi  Gupta,  better  known  as  Nidhu  Babu  (1742-1839). 
He  was  also  one  of  the  leading  sponsors  of  the  semi-classical 
style  of  music,  called  ‘Akhdai’  (literally  ‘Clubroom  Music’), 
that  came  into  vogue  in  Calcutta  towards  the  close  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  Nidhu  Babu  introduced  into  Bengali  the 
‘Tappa’  (i.e.  simple  in  form  and  light  in  execution)  variety 
of  song  from  Hindi.  His  songs  rarely  exceed  four  verse  lines. 
The  compact  form  necessitated  terseness  of  expression, 
which  added  much  to  their  literary  quality.  Thus: 

Look,  my  lover  goes  away  stepping  slowly  and  he  is 
looking  back.  How  can  you  tell  me  to  go  home?  He 
was  in  my  heart,  and  now  I see  him  outside.  When  he 
goes  out  of  my  sight  he  takes  his  seat  back  in  my  heart. 

The  poet’s  love  for  his  mother-tongue  is  feelingly  expressed 
in  perhaps  the  most  well-known  song  of  his. 

So  many  lands  have  so  many  tongues,  but  none  gives 
satisfaction  more  fully  than  one’s  own  speech.  There 
are  so  many  rivers  and  lakes  ; but  what  good  are  they 


EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY:  ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS  175 

to  the  Gatak?  Her  thirst  can  be  quenched  only  by  the 
rain-drops. 

Nidhu  Babu’s  contemporary  Sridhar  was  a professional 
reciter  of  Purana  stories  and  so  he  bore  the  designation 
‘Kathak’  as  a surname.  Some  of  Sridhar’s  songs  are  in  no 
way  inferior  to  Nidhu  Babu’s,  as  for  instance  the  following: 

I love  thee  not  so  that  thou  wouldst  love  me  in  return. 
It  is  my  nature  that  I know  nothing  but  thee.  The 
sweet  smile  of  thy  moon  face,  when  I see  it  I flush  in 
joy.  So  I came  to  see  thee  and  not  to  show  myself 
to  thee. 

Ram  Basu  (1787-1829),  another  contemporary,  was  a 
well-known  writer  of  ‘Kabi’  songs.7  As  compared  to  Nidhu 
Babu’s  and  Srldhar’s  songs,  Ram  Basu’s  are  oversized 
and  long-winded.  Their  theme  is  also  less  general.  There 
are  however  occasional  lines  bright  and  sincere.  For  instance: 

My  dear,  my  feeling  continues  as  a heart-ache,  since 
he  has  departed  for  abroad.  I was  about  to  speak  it 
out  but  could  not ; for  the  shame  of  it  I could  not 
express  my  love  to  him. 

Dasarathi  Ray  (1806-57)  started  his  career  as  a song  writer 
to  the  ‘Kabi’  troupe  led  by  Aka  Baiti,  who  was  herself  a 
reputed  singer.  After  a time  he  gave  up  writing  ‘Kabi’ 
songs  and  set  up  his  own  party  of  ’Pancali’  singers.  This 
new  ‘Pancali’  was  a compromise  between  the  ‘Kabi’  song  and 
the  Purana  recitation  on  the  one  hand  and  the  traditional 
musical  play  (Yatra)  and  Kirttan,  on  the  other.  The  sub- 
ject-matter of  Dasarathi’s  compositions  was  not  always  tradi- 
tional, although  the  themes  of  most  of  them  were  taken 


7 The  ‘Kabi’  songs  were  almost  always  sung  by  two  contesting  parties, 
and  the  only  instruments  played  were  the  small  drum  (‘Dhol’)  and  the 
bell-metal  plate  (‘KarhsT’).  The  topic  was  generally  mythological.  The 
first  singer  would  put  a question  in  song,  and  the  second  would  give  a 
reply  and  put  in  his  own  question.  The  sirvger  who  was  unable  to  give 
a reply  would  lose  the  contest. 


176 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


from  the  Krsna  legend  and  some  from  the  Rama  and  the 
Siva  stories.  Dasarathi  treated  contemporary  events  of  social 
interest  as  themes  of  the  light  variety  of  his  ‘Pancali’  com- 
positions, such  as  re-marriage  of  widows,  profligacy  in  town- 
life,  and  perniciousness  of  English  education.  Dasarathi’s. 
audience  was  mainly  the  rural  folk  and  the  devotional 
sentiment  which  was  the  dominant  note  of  his  serious, 
compositions  had  tremendous  appeal  for  them.  Sweet  jingle 
of  alliteration  was  an  attractive  feature  of  Dasarathi’s  poetry. 
He  adopted  many  rural  tunes  for  his  songs  which  added 
much  to  their  attraction.  For  these  three  reasons  Dasarathi’s 
compositions  furnished  the  best  popular  entertainment 
throughout  West  Bengal  in  the  middle  decades  of  the  nine- 
teenth century. 

Dasarathi’s  rival  in  Central  and  East  Bengal  was  Krsna- 
kamal  Gosvami  whose  ‘Pancali’  compositions  lean  more  on 
the  ‘Yatra’  side  while  his  songs  are  of  the  Klrttan  type.  In 
the  attempts  at  modernization  and  rejuvenation  of  Vaishnav 
poetry  the  success  of  Madhu  Kan  (1813-68)  was  more  effective. 
Like  Krsnakamal,  Madhu  Kan  belonged  to  Central  Bengal 
and  had  his  training  in  East  Bengal.  Madhu  was  fond  of 
alliteration  as  Dasarathi  was,  but  not  to  the  same  extent. 
Unlike  Dasarathi,  Madhu  wrote  in  a simple  language  and 
his  compositions  were  not  ‘Pancali’  pieces  but  Klrttan  songs. 
Madhu  Kan  had  invented  his  own  melodies  and  had  deve- 
loped his  own  style  of  music  which  was  a pleasing  combi- 
nation of  the  orthodox  Klrttan  and  the  rural  dance  song. 
It  was  known  as  the  ‘Dhap’  (i.e.  Gesticulating)  Kirttan  style 
of  Madhu  Kan.  This  style  has  continued  to  enjoy  popu- 
larity, being  sung  almost  exclusively  by  women  singers 
of  Kirttan. 

The  main  difference  between  the  new  ‘Pancali’  and 
‘Yatra’  in  the  early  nineteenth  century  was  that  the  former 
was  sung  by  one  main  singer  and  the  latter  by  at  least  three, 
while  both  had  supporting  singers  and  instrument  players. 
The  most  popular  subject  was  the  Krsna  stories.  Slightly 


EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY  : ITS  TENDENCIES  AND  EFFECTS  177 


less  popular  were  the  stories  of  Siva  and  Parvatl  and  the  life- 
story  of  Chaitanya.  By  the  middle  of  the  century  ‘Yatra’ 
plays  on  the  love  story  of  Vidya  and  Sundar  obtained  an 
immense  vogue  in  the  Calcutta  region.  The  overture  of  the 
Yatra  compositions  generally  supplied  the  comic  element. 
In  the  Krsna  plays  the  comic  figures  were  the  sage  Narad 
and  his  disciple  ‘Bas-dev’  (i.e.  Vyasa-deva).  In  the  Vidya- 
Sundar  plays  obscenity  was  often  served  for  the  comic.  The 
songs  were  the  main  and  fixed  feature  of  the  Yatra  plays. 
The  connecting  prose  and/or  verse  lines  were  supplied 
extempore  by  the  actor-singers  themselves. 


12 


15 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  LITERARY  PROSE 

The  establishment  of  the  British  rule  in  Bengal  in  the 
seventh  decade  of  the  eighteenth  century  did  not,  for  more 
than  half  a century,  cause  any  appreciable  stir  in  the 
economic  and  cultural  life  of  the  people  except  that  there 
was  a growing  sense  of  security  based  on  a belief  in  legal 
justice.  The  introduction  of  the  printing  press  was  soon 
destined  to  change  the  course  of  the  contemporary  literary 
currents.  The  credit  of  designing  and  casting  Bengali  types 
successfully  and  of  printing  the  first  book  where  the 
Bengali  types  were  used  goes  to  Charles  Wilkins,  an  officer 
of  the  East  India  Company.  He  was  a fine  Sanskrit  scholar, 
translator  of  the  Bhagavadgita  and  the  principal  collaborator 
of  Sir  William  Jones  in  bounding  the  Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal 
(1784).  The  Bengali  types  were  first  used  in  Nathanial 
Braney  Halhed’s  Bengali  Grammar  (in  English)  printed  at 
Hooghly  in  1778.  Halhed  too  was  a good  scholar,  and  his 
knowledge  of  the  Bengali  language  and  literature  was 
astounding  for  the  day. 

The  Bengali  books  first  to  be  printed  in  Bengali  types 
were  the  prose  translations  of  legal  codes  adopted  by  the  East 
India  Company  for  administration  in  Bengal,  Bihar  and 
Orissa.  The  translations  were  done  under  the  supervision 
of  the  British  clerks  of  the  Company.  Jonathan  Duncan  was 
responsible  for  the  translation  of  the  Regulations  for  the 
Administration  of  Justice  in  the  Courts  of  Dewanee  Adaulut 
(Calcutta  1785).  Neil  Benjamin  Edmunstone  supervized  the 
translation  of  the  Criminal  Code  (Calcutta  1791)  and  Henry 
Pitts  Forster  edited  the  translation  of  the  revenue  regula- 
tions that  were  known  as  the  Cornwallis  Code  (1793).  These 
translations  closely  followed  the  contemporary  documentary 
style  but  with  a minimum  of  Perso-Arabic  words  and 
phrases.  This  was  rather  unexpected.  But  the  British 
‘Writers’  in  Bengali  had  the  greatest  reverence  for  Sanskrit 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  LITERARY  PROSE 


179 


and  very  strong  liking  for  Bengali  the  language  of  the 
province.  This  is  what  Halhed  says  in  the  preface  of  his 
Grammar  regarding  the  potentiality  of  Bengali:  ‘It  is  the 
sole  channel  of  personal  and  epistolary  communication 
among  the  Hindoos  of  every  occupation  and  tribe.  All  their 
business  is  transacted,  and  all  their  accounts  are  kept  in  it ; 

. ...  In  short,  if  vigour,  impartiality  and  dispatch  be  re- 
quired to  the  operations  of  government,  to  the  distribution 
of  Justice,  to  the  collection  of  revenues  and  to  the  transaction 
of  commerce,  they  are  only  to  be  secured  by  a proper  atten- 
tion to  that  dialect  used  by  the  body  of  the  people  ; especially 
as  it  is  much  better  calculated  both  for  public  and  private 
affairs  by  its  plainness,  its  precision  and  regularity  of  con- 
struction than  the  flowery  sentences  and  modulated  periods 
of  the  Persian.’ 

The  establishment  of  the  Baptist  Mission  at  Serampore 
in  1800  by  W.  Carey  (1761-1843),  W.  Ward  and  J.  Marsh- 
man  was  an  event  in  the  cultural  history  of  Bengal.  The 
missionaries  took  to  the  literary  path  for  the  spread  of 
Christianity  among  the  masses.  Seeing  that  the  common 
people  of  Bengal  had  a strong  liking  for  devotional  narratives 
and  songs,  Carey  and  his  colleagues  gave  every  attention  to 
the  translation  of  the  Bible.  They  started  a press  at  Seram- 
pore in  the  same  year  for  printing  the  Bengali  and  other 
vernacular  translations  of  the  Bible.  The  New  Testament  in 
Bengali  was  published  in  1801.  Before  that  the  translation 
of  the  Gospel  of  St.  Matthews  was  published  as  a specimen 
in  1800.  The  Bengali  Bible  ( Dharma  Pustak)  was  completed 
in  1809.  The  draft  of  the  Bengali  Bible  seems  to  have  been 
made  by  the  Bengali  assistants  of  Carey,  among  whom  the 
most  notable  was  Ramram  Basu.  As  Carey’s  knowledge  of 
Bengali  and  Sanskrit  advanced  he  began  to  replace  purely 
Bengali  words  by  lexical  Sanskrit  words  in  the  subsequent 
editions  published  during  his  lifetime  (1833),  and  he  was 
always  seeking  advice  from  some  Bengali  scholars  for  neces- 
sary corrections.  What  Carey  could  never  achieve,  namely. 


180 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


a readable  translation  in  Bengali  of  the  New  Testament  was 
done  a few  years  later  by  William  Yates.  It  was  printed  in 
Roman  characters  in  London  in  1839. 

In  imitation  of  the  Vaishnav  biography  the  Serampore 
missionaries  had  the  New  Testament  rendered  in  Bengali 
verse  also.  But  neither  in  the  form  of  the  printed  book  nor 
in  the  guise  of  old  manuscripts  this  Christian  poetry  could 
make  any  headway.  The  literary  path  always  proved  a blind 
alley. 

For  the  express  purpose  of  teaching  Indian  languages 
to  the  newly  recruited  British  ‘Writers’  of  the  East  India 
Company  the  College  of  Fort  William  was  founded  in 
Calcutta  in  May  1800.  Carey  was  put  in  charge  of  the 
Bengali  (and  later  also  of  the  Sanskrit)  section.  He  appointed 
as  assistant  teachers  pundits  and  munshis,  some  of  whom 
had  been  his  own  teachers  and  had  helped  him  in  the  tran- 
slation of  the  Bible.  The  Serampore  Mission  Press  published 
the  Ramayana  of  Krttivas  (1802-03)  and  the  first  book  of 
the  Mahabharata  of  Kasiram  (1 802-04), 1 the  first  Bengali 
poems  to  be  ever  printed,  for  the  use  of  the  students  of  the 
College  of  Fort  William. 

As  the  poetry  texts  were  not  entirely  suitable  for 
imparting  a practical  knowledge  of  the  spoken  tongue, 
Carey’s  first  task  as  the  professor  of  Bengali  at  the  College 
was  to  produce  prose  treatises.  At  his  instance  his  assistants 
were  engaged  in  preparing  prose  texts  for  the  use  of  the 
students  of  the  College.2  The  best  among  these  writers  were 
Ramram  Basu  (d.  1813)  and  Mrtyunjay  Vidyalankar  (d.  1819) 
whose  writings  represent  respectively  the  ‘Munshi’  (i.e.  the 
Persian  scholar)  and  the  ‘Pundit’  (i.e.  the  Sanskrit  scholar) 
style  of  the  contemporary  Bengali  prose. 


1 The  complete  text  was  edited  by  Jayagopal  Tarkalankar  and  printed 
at  Serampore  in  1836.  Some  of  the  best  lines  in  the  vulgate  text  of  the 
poem  come  from  Tarkalankar’s  emendations.  He  was  a good  writer  of 
verse  and  a very  well-known  professor  of  Sanskrit  poetry  at  the  Govern- 
ment Sanskrit  College,  Calcutta. 

2 All  these  books  were  printed  at  the  Serampore  Mission  Press. 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  LITERARY  PROSE 


181 


Two  prose  works  by  Ramram  Basu  were  published 
(1801,  1802).  In  the  first  book  ( Pratapaditya-caritra ) the 
author  utilized  the  current  stories  about  Pratapaditya  of 
Jessore  as  well  as  references  to  him  in  the  Persian  chronicles 
of  the  Mughal  Court.  The  style  is  easy  and  entirely  narra- 
tive. The  other  work  ( Lipimala ) is  really  a book  of  essays 
and  short  narratives  written  in  the  form  of  letters.  The  style 
here  is  easier  and  rather  colloquial.  As  the  author  said  in 
the  preface,  Lipimala  was  intended  for  helping  the  Company 
officers  in  the  acquisition  of  the  colloquial  style  of  Bengali 
as  tvell  as  in  the  acquaintance  of  the  ordinary  business  life 
of  the  people. 

Mrtyunjay  Vidyalarikar’s  works  are  mainly  adaptations 
and  translations  from  Sanskrit.  Batris  Simhasan  (1802)  and 
Hitopades  (1808)  are  translations  of  the  Sanskrit  story  books 
Dvatrimsat-puttalika  and  Hitopadesa  respectively.  Some  of 
these  stories  were  already  familiar  in  Bengali  verse  and  also 
sporadically  in  halting  prose.  His  Rdjdvali  (String  of  Kings), 
published  in  1808,  appears  to  have  been  adapted  from  a 
contemporary  Sanskrit  work  of  the  same  title,  based  on  the 
works  of  the  Mughal  chroniclers.  It  is  the  first  history  of 
India  written  in  Bengali  prose.  The  best  known  work  of 
Mrtyunjay,  Prabodhacandrika  (Moonlight  of  Awakening), 
was  published  posthumously  in  1833.  It  contains  much  that 
can  be  taken  as  original  writing,  and  it  shows  both  the 
scholastic  and  the  colloquial  prose  styles.  The  popular  tales 
in  the  colloquial  style  are  really  amusing.  It  is  likely  that 
Prabodhacandrika  was  left  unfinished  by  Mrtyunjay  and 
was  completed  by  his  son  Ram  jay  Tarkalankar  (d.  1857)  who 
succeeded  his  father  as  a teacher  in  the  College  of  Fort 
William.  Prabodhacandrika  had  a vogue  for  more  than  half 
a century  as  a textbook,  first  for  the  College  of  Fort  William, 
then  for  the  University  of  Calcutta.  The  other  Bengali  prose 
work  by  Mrtyunjay,  Veddntacandrika  (Calcutta  1817)  had 
nothing  to  do  with  Carey  or  with  the  College  of  Fort 
William.  It  was  written  in  protest  against  the  Vedantism 


182 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


and  the  monotheistic  worship  sponsored  by  Rammohan  Roy. 
For  the  benefit  of  European  readers  interested  in  the  subject 
an  English  translation  was  appended.  The  language  is  in 
no  way  an  improvement,  and  the  indirect  invectives  against 
Rammohan  Roy  have  detracted  much  from  the  effectiveness 
of  Mrtyunjay’s  challenge. 

As  a prose  writer  Mrtyunjay  was  ponderous  and  pedantic 
and  sometimes  less  intelligible  than  Ramram  Basu.  The 
specimens  of  the  colloquial  speech  imbedded  in  Prabodha- 
candrikd  are  good  in  spite  of  much  that  now  seems  vulgar. 
The  claim  that  this  Fort  William  College  pundit  was  the 
father  of  the  literary  prose  in  Bengali  is  extravagant  but  it 
cannot  be  denied  that  he  wrote  much  and  on  a wide  variety 
of  topics. 

Among  the  other  Bengali  teachers  of  the  College  of 
Fort  William  Rajiblocan  Mukherji  deserves  more  than  a 
passing  mention.  His  Maharaj  Krsnacandra  Rayasya  Cari- 
trarri  (Life  of  Maharaja  Krsnacandra  Ray)  was  printed  at 
Serampore  in  1805.  It  follows  the  pattern  of  Ramram 
Basu’s  work  on  the  life -story  of  Pratapaditya.  Rajiblocan 
Mukherji’s  diction  shows  a distinct  improvement  upon  that 
of  his  predecessors.  Mukherji’s  sentences  are  short  and 
simple.  As  a textbook  it  enjoyed  popularity  for  a long  time, 
longer  than  even  Prabodhacandrika. 

Rammohan  Roy  (1774-1833)  who  was  in  many  ways 
the  forerunner  of  the  new  age  that  was  dawning  in  India 
was  the  first  writer  of  Bengali  prose  outside  of  textbooks — - 
in  his  translations  of  two  Vedanta  treatises  (1815)  and 
of  the  Upanishads  and  in  his  polemical  tracts  in  support 
of  social  and  religious  reformation  (1818-23).  To  fight 
against  the  onslaught  of  the  Serampore  missionaries 
directed  against  Hinduism  Rammohan  Roy  published  perio- 
dicals and  magazines  in  Bengali,  English  and  Persian 
(1821-22).  Poetry,  too,  was  not  foreign  to  his  pen.  He 
translated  the  Bhagavadgitd  in  Bengali  verse  and  wrote 
some  devotional  songs.  His  earliest  book  on  religious 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  LITERARY  PROSE 


183 


reform  was  T uhfatul  Muwahhiddin  written  in  excellent 
Persian  (published  before  1815).  Rammohan’s  command  over 
his  mother  tongue  is  amply  shown  in  his  Bengali  grammar  in 
English  (1826)  which  he  later  translated  into  Bengali  (pub- 
lished shortly  after  his  death  in  1833).  This  was  the  best 
Bengali  grammar  yet  written,  and  in  some  respects  it  is  not 
surpassed  by  the  later  attempts. 

Rammohan  Roy  followed  the  pundit  style  of  prose,  but 
it  was  never  pedantic,  artificial  or  obscure.  The  reason  is 
not  far  to  seek.  He  was  not  a mere  Sanskritist  like  Mrtyun- 
jay  Vidyalarikar,  nor  was  he  a purely  Persian  scholar  like 
Ramram  Basu.  Besides  Sanskrit  and  Persian  he  knew 
English  and  some  Arabic.  This  polyglottic  attainment 
made  him  free  from  the  hypnotic  influence  of  the  involved 
flowery  phraseology  and  from  the  nightmarish  obsession  of 
lexical  words.  Rammohan’s  Bengali  bears  no  literary 
flourish  but  is  simple,  direct  and  expressive.  It  was  no 
doubt  somewhat  archaic  ; none  the  less  it  forms  an  achieve- 
ment in  ease  and  precision  seldom  attained  by  his  learned 
contemporaries. 

What  the  high-priced  and  stiffly  written  textbooks 
published  from  Serampore  could  never  attain  and  what 
the  theological  treatises  of  Rammohan  Roy  never  aspired 
to  was  done  by  the  publication  of  the  weekly  paper  Sama- 
cardarpan  (Mirror  of  Information)  by  the  Serampore 
missionaries  in  May  181 8. 3 The  cue  was  taken  up  by 
Rammohan  Roy  and  others  in  Calcutta  and  as  a result  there 
was  a volley  of  periodicals,  more  or  less  short-lived,  issued 
from  the  native  press  in  Calcutta.  The  Samacardarpan 
and  its  younger  Calcutta  contemporaries  served  the  common 
man,  the  man  who  knew  only  Bengali,  not  only  with 
events  and  matters  of  topical  interest  but  also  with  useful 


3 J.  Marshman  was  the  editor,  and  he  had  pundit  assistants.  Bengal 
Gazette  of  Gangadhar  Bhattacarji  was  almost  a simultaneous  publication 
from  Calcutta.  Rut  the  attempt  was  short-lived.  Samacardarpan  was  pre- 
ceded by  Digdarfan  (April  1818),  also  from  Serampore.  It  was  a magazine 
of  articles  on  various  informative  and  educative  topics. 


184 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


information  and  amusing  stories.  Untramelled  by  Sanskri- 
tic  learning  and  scholastic  unintelligibility  the  prose  diction 
of  the  periodicals  was  not  unacceptable  to  the  reading 
public.  It  was  through  such  journals  that  literary  prose 
found  its  first  currency  among  the  literates. 

The  textbooks  published  from  Serampore  Mission  Press 
were  costly,  bulky  and  stiff  reading.  For  the  purpose  of 
supplying  easier,  shorter  and  cheaper  textbooks  the  School 
Book  Society  was  established  in  Calcutta  in  1817.  Among 
its  members  were  Carey  and  Raja  Radhakanta  Deb  (1783- 
1867).  The  various  textbooks  published  by  the  Society 
were  well  received  and  they  did  much  for  the  spread  of 
education  in  the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth  century. 
Among  the  textbook  writers  of  the  period  were  Britishers 
such  as  Felix  Carey,  J.  Lawson,  W.  H.  Pearce,  J.  D.  Pearson 
and  W.  Yates.  Most  of  the  books  and  many  of  the  scientific 
treatises  were  translations  from  English,  which  were  required 
by  the  newly  established  Hindu  College  (1817)  and  Seram- 
pore College  (1818),  and  by  the  schools  that  were  set  up  in 
Calcutta  and  outside.  History  was  the  most  common  subject 
of  these  textbooks. 

Felix  Carey  (d.  1822)  the  eldest  son  of  William  Carey 
initiated  an  encyclopaedia  in  Bengali  by  publishing  the 
first  volume,  a textbook  on  Physiology  and  Anatomy 
(1819).  The  early  death  of  the  author  put  a stop  to  the 
fulfilment  of  the  scheme.  Years  later  K.  M.  Banerji  (1813- 
85)  an  alumnus  of  Hindu  College  who  adopted  the  Chris- 
tian faith  and  took  Holy  orders,  was  able  to  fulfil  the  desire 
of  the  late  F.  Carey.  Banerji’s  V idyakalpadrum  or  Ency- 
clopaedia Bengalensis  (published  also  in  an  English-Bengali 
bilingual  edition)  was  produced  in  thirteen  volumes 
(1846-51).  It  contained  translations  or  adaptations  of  histo- 
rical treatises,  geometry,  geography,  moral  and  didactic 
essays  and  tales.  There  were  also  selections  from  the  works 
of  some  of  the  writers  of  the  Fort  William  College  text- 
books. Banerji’s  style  showed  a marked  improvement  upon 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  LITERARY  PROSE 


185 


that  of  the  general  textbook  writers,  but  his  being  a 
Christian  convert  stood  against  a merited  popularity  of  his 
works.  In  later  days  when  Banerji’s  fame  as  a scholar  and 
a speaker  was  established,  the  prejudice  against  his  works 
died  down  and  his  treatise  on  the  Six  Systems  of  Indian 
Philosophy  (1867)  was  retained  as  a textbook  for  Univer- 
sity examinations  for  a long  time. 

Banerji  was  the  first  Indian  to  write  a play  in  the 
western  manner.  The  Persecuted  (1832)  was  written  in 
English  but  the  subject-matter  of  this  drama  was  his  own 
personal  problem  which  was  also  the  most  acute  problem 
facing  the  young  recipients  of  English  education,  that  is, 
the  growing  and  apparently  irreconcilable  impact  of  the 
English  educated  modern  mind  with  the  stolid  conservatism 
of  the  orthodox  society.  Had  the  drama  been  written  in 
Bengali  the  regeneration  of  Bengali  literature  would  not 
have  been  retarded  for  nearly  a quarter  of  a century. 

In  1851  the  Education  Department  of  the  Government 
sponsored  the  Vernacular  Literature  Committee  as  an  auxi- 
liary to  the  School  Book  Society.  The  sole  programme  of 
the  Committee  (later  renamed  Society)  was  to  foster  a 
healthy  domestic  literature  in  Bengali  by  publishing  educa- 
tive and  entertaining  books,  original  or  adapted  from 
English  and  Sanskrit,  and  written  in  a simple  style  and 
priced  very  low.  The  first  and  most  successful  venture  of 
the  Committee  was  the  publication  (from  1851)  of  Vividhar- 
thasahgraha  (Collection  of  Various  Matters),  a monthly 
illustrated  magazine,  edited  by  Rajendralal  Mitra  (d.  1891), 
a reputed  antiquarian,  a versatile  scholar  and  one  of  the 
leading  personalities  of  the  day.  Incidentally  the  magazine 
did  much  for  the  new  literary  movement  that  was  soon 
inaugurated.  Rajendralal  was  a good  writer  of  Bengali  and 
a good  critic.  Some  of  the  pioneer  writings  of  the  new 
school  of  poetry  introduced  by  Rangalal  Banerji  and  estab- 
lished by  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt  were  published  for  the 
first  time  in  V ividharthasaiigraha.  The  educative  value  of 


186 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


its  informative  articles  cannot  be  over-estimated.  Rabindra- 
nath Tagore  drank  his  first  cup  of  delightful  knowledge 
from  this,  Rajendralal’s  ‘penny’  magazine.  The  first  serious 
attempts  at  a history  of  the  Bengali  language  and  literature 
appeared  in  the  pages  of  the  magazine.  Rajendralal  him- 
self was  the  chief  contributor.  The  publications  of  the 
Vernacular  Literature  Committee,  specially  the  biographical 
narratives  and  the  story  books,  became  quite  popular.  It 
included  John  Robinson’s  translation  of  Robinson  Crusoe 
(1852),  Dr.  Edward  Roer’s  translation  of  Lamb’s  Tales  from 
Shakespeare  (1853),  Anandacandra  Vedantavagisa’s  adapta- 
tion of  Kathasaritsagara,  and  Madhusiidan  Mukherji’s 
domestic  tale  Susilar  Upakhyan  in  three  parts  (1859-65). 
The  last  book  to  be  published  by  the  Society  before  it  was 
wound  up  was  Madhusudan  Mukherji’s  adaptation  of 
Krilof’s  Fables  (1870).  The  publications  of  the  Committee 
were  intended  also  to  drive  away  the  Christian  tales  and 
tracts  that  were  being  printed  in  plenty. 

What  was  first  attempted  by  Rammohan  Roy  in  the 
middle  teens  was  repeated  successfully  in  the  early  forties 
of  the  century  by  Devendranath  Tagore  (1817-1905)  and  his 
collaborators  ; that  is  literary  prose  was  rescued  from  the 
blind  alley  of  textbook  writing.  Devendranath,  the  leading 
protagonist  of  the  Brahmo  Samaj  after  Rammohan  Roy, 
instituted  T attvabodhini  Patrika,  a monthly  magazine  and 
organ  of  the  Brahmo  Samaj  and  of  its  education  branch 
Tattvabodhini  Sabha  (established  1839).  Devendranath 
Tagore  was  a very  able  prose  writer,  as  his  sermons  to  the 
Brahmo  Samaj  testify.  His  epistolary  style  was  even  better, 
and  this  style  was  inherited  by  his  eldest  and  youngest  sons, 
Dwijendranath  and  Rabindranath,  two  of  the  most  original 
stylists  of  Bengali  prose  and  poetry.  Rajnarayan  Basu,  a 
valued  friend  of  the  Tagore  family,  was  one  of  the  dis- 
tinguished contributors  to  Tattvabodhini  Patrika. 

The  magazine  was  edited  for  twelve  years  by  Aksay- 
kumar  Datta  (1820-86)  who  wrote  his  informative  articles 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  LITERARY  PROSE 


187 


primarily  for  the  journal.  These  articles  (mostly  adapta- 
tions from  English)  were  later  compiled  into  books  which 
were  profitably  accepted  as  High  School  and  College  text- 
books for  generations.  Datta’s  treatises  on  moral  education 
were  also  well  received.  He  was  one  of  the  first  Indians 
to  take  up  the  study  of  Science.  His  Bharatavarsiya 
U pasaksampraday  (Indian  Religious  Sects)  published  in 
two  volumes  (1870  and  1883)  is  an  improvement  on  and 
enlargement  of  IT  H.  Wilson’s  Sketch  on  the  Religious  Sects 
of  Hindus  (first  published  in  Asiatic  Researches  vols.  16  and 
17)  and  is  a monument  of  research  work  of  permanent  value. 
Aksaykumar  Datta’s  attitude  was  scientific,  and  his  terse 
and  economic  style  of  prose  fully  conforms  to  that  attitude. 
His  style  has  no  pretension  to  literary  polish  but  it  brought 
about  what  was  badly  needed,  that  is  coherence  in  diction 
and  precision  in  expression. 


What  Datta’s  style  lacked  was  supplied  by  Iswarchandra 
Vidyasagar  (1820-91),  a collaborator  of  Aksaykumar  Datta 
in  T attvabodhini  Patrika.  Bengali  literary  prose  obtained 
balance  and  rhythm  at  the  hand  of  Vidyasagar,  without 
losing  precision  and  expressiveness.  He  was  the  first 
Bengali  prose  writer  with  the  proper  feeling  for  the  correct 
word  and  for  this  reason  even  the  long-winded  lexical  words 
used  by  him  are  not  felt  as  foreign  or  bizarre.  The  sono- 
rousness of  Vidyasagar’s  solid  style  has  a subtle  charm  which 
few  of  his  imitators  and  followers  could  achieve  and  none 
but  Rabindranath  Tagore  could  surpass. 

Vidyasagar  was  the  most  outstanding  personality  in  the 
middle  and  final  decades  of  the  nineteenth  century.  His 
deep  learning  in  Sanskrit,  his  high  critical  acumen,  his 
wholesome  and  very  modern  outlook  on  life,  his  integrity 
and  forcefulness  of  character  and  his  indomitable  fighting 
spirit  that  would  never  compromise  with  evil  or  injustice, 
made  him  respected  by  all.  He  always  rang  true  in  his 


188 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


public  as  well  as  personal  relations.  He  lived  the  simple 
life  of  a brahman  pundit  but  in  spirit  he  was  more  advanced 
than  the  most  vociferous  supporters  of  social  reform.  In 
human  qualities,  too,  few  of  his  countrymen  have  surpassed 
him. 

Vidyasagar’s  first  two  or  three  books  were  written  as 
textbooks  for  the  College  of  Fort  William.  The  first  treatise 
dealt  with  the  legendary  story  of  Krishna.  It  was  based  on 
a Hindi  prose  work  ( Premsagar ) written  as  a textbook  for 
the  College  in  its  early  days.  But  it  was  never  published. 
The  second  book  Velalpancavimsati  (Twenty-five  Tales  of 
the  Vetal),  published  in  1847,  was  not  based  entirely  on 
the  Sanskrit  original  but  was  partly  an  adaptation  of  its 
Hindi  version.  The  publication  of  Vidyasagar’s  Vetal  tales 
is  a landmark  in  the  history  of  Bengali  prose.  Of  the  text- 
books that  followed  five  were  adaptations  from  English  and 
two  from  Sanskrit.  The  last  two,  Sakuntala  (1854)  and 
Sitar  Vanavas  (Exile  of  Sita  ; 1860),  as  well  as  Bhrantivilas 
(an  adaptation  of  the  story  of  Shakespeare’s  Comedy  of 
Errors  ; 1869)  show  Vidyasagar’s  prose  at  its  best.  His  text- 
books in  Bengali  range  from  a book  of  the  Bengali  alphabet 
(V arnaparicay)  to  the  best  elementary  and  advanced  gram- 
mars of  classical  Sanskrit  that  have  ever  been  written  in 
a modern  Indo-Aryan  language  ( Upakramanika  and  Vyaka- 
ranakaumudi).  He  compiled  a series  of  Sanskrit  readers 
which  have  been  used  as  textbooks  in  and  outside  Bengal, 
and  he  brought  out  critical  editions  of  the  works  of  Kalidasa 
and  of  some  other  poets  and  philosophers  of  Sanskrit. 
Vidyasagar’s  high  critical  acumen  is  revealed  in  his  brief 
survey  of  Classical  Sanskrit  literature  ( Samskrta  Sdhitya- 
visayak  Prastav  ; 1851)  and  even  more  so  in  the  preface  and 
the  exegetical  notes  in  his  edition  of  Meghaduta  (1868). 
Vidyasagar  began  a prose  translation  of  the  Mahabharata 
which  was  published  serially  in  T attvabodhini  Patrika.  After 
the  first  book  was  completed  he  relegated  the  task  to  Kall- 
prasanna  Simha  who  had  much  better  resources  for  under- 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  LITERARY  PROSE 


189 


taking  the  translation  of  the  great  epic  and  its  publication 
(1859-1866).  Viclyasagar  supervised  the  work  undertaken 
by  Kallprasanna  Simha. 

Vidyasagar’s  bigger  Bengali  books  are  the  polemical 
treatises  in  support  of  widow  remarriage  (in  two  volumes  ; 
1855)  and  in  opposition  to  polygamy  (also  in  two  volumes  ; 
1871,  1873).  The  first  work  was  largely  responsible  for  the 
passing  of  the  Widow  Remarriage  Act  in  1856.  Two 
anonymous  satirical  sketches  impugning  the  private  morals 
of  some  of  the  leading  pundits  who  supported  the  continu- 
ance of  polygamy,  both  published  in  1873,  are  universally 
ascribed  to  Vidyasagar.  The  style  of  these  satires  is  smart 
and  good  reading. 

Vidyasagar  was  a pundit  among  pundits.  The  reputa- 
tion of  his  scholarship  even  as  a student  of  the  Government 
Sanskrit  College  (established  1824)  and  his  success  as  the 
Principal  of  the  College  (1852-58)  made  him  the  leading 
pundit  of  the  day,  even  though  some  of  his  colleagues  were 
great  masters  of  Sanskrit  lore.  Vidyasagar’s  achievement 
in  Bengali  language  and  literature  was  indeed  a difficult 
feat,  the  more  so  as  being  a pundit  himself  he  set  free 
Bengali  prose  from  the  tortuous  verbosity  and  pedantic 
unintelligibility  that  went  for  the  high  style  of  Bengali  prose. 
The  best  compliment  to  Vidyasagar,  vicariously  made, 
was  paid  by  an  anonymous  pundit  who  had  summarily  con- 
demned a writing  of  Vidyasagar  on  the  ground  that  it  was 
quite  easy  to  follow. 

It  was  not  so  much  the  simplicity  and  charm  of 
Vidyasagar’s  style  as  the  reception  of  his  textbooks  that 
prompted  the  teachers  and  the  alumni  of  Sanskrit  College 
to  emulate  the  master  in  adapting  Sanskrit  works  in  Bengali 
prose.  The  better  known  among  the  early  Sanskrit  College 
writers  are  Tarasankar  Tarkaratna  and  Ramgati  Nyayaratna. 
Tarkaratna  made  an  abridged  and  free  translation  of  Bana’s 
prose  romance  Kadambarl.  Nyayaratna  wrote  many  books 
among  which  the  most  important  was  a history  of  Bengali 


190 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


literature  (1872-73)  after  the  model  of  Vidyasagar’s  mono- 
graph on  Sanskrit  literature.  Though  not  a brahman  pundit, 
Nilmani  Basak  was  one  of  the  most  successful  of  the  Sanskrit 
College  group  of  prose  writers.  His  first  literary  venture  was 
collaboration  in  a metrical  adaptation  of  Persian  T ales  from 
English  (1834).  Later  Basak  translated  Arabian  Nights 
(also  from  English)  into  Bengali  prose,  the  first  volume  of 
which  came  out  in  1850.  His  most  successful  book  was 
Navanari  (Nine  Women  ; 1852)  containing  biographical 
sketches  of  nine  illustrious  Indian  women  from  history  and 
mythology.  As  the  author  admitted  in  the  preface  the  book 
was  revised  by  Vidyasagar  before  publication.  Among 
Basak’s  other  works  mention  may  be  made  of  his  History  of 
India  in  three  volumes  (1856-58).  It  is  based  on  an  English 
original  but  the  language  never  smacks  of  it  and  the  diction 
is  simple  and  easy. 

The  Hindu  College  writers  who  had  made  their  debut 
as  early  as  1843  (in  the  pages  of  Tattvabodhim  Patrika)  soon 
came  under  the  influence  of  the  Sanskrit  College  group 
through  the  common  writers  like  Anandacandra  Vedanta- 
vagls,  Iswarchandra  Vidyasagar,  Hemcandra  Vidyaratna  and 
others.  But  the  early  Hindu  Collegeans  like  Devendranath 
Tagore,  Pyarichand  Mitra  (1814-83)  and  Rajnarayan  Basu 
(1826-1900)  and  some  of  the  later  Collegeans  like  Dwijen- 
dranath  Tagore  and  others  were  not  susceptible  to  this 
influence.  The  Hindu  College  writers  usually  show  two 
styles  in  their  writings,  a high  and  a low  style.  The  high 
style  is  seldom  as  learned  as  that  of  the  Sanskrit  College 
group  and  the  low  style  was  never  undignified  and  vulgar. 
But  it  was  not  so  much  in  the  style  of  composition  as  in 
outlook  and  orientation  that  the  Hindu  College  alumni 
broke  new  ground  in  Bengali  literature.  Pyarichand  Mitra 
and  Bhudeb  Mukherji  sowed  the  seeds  of  Bengali  fiction. 
Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt  revolutionized  Bengali  poetry. 


16 


THE  WESTERN  STAGE  AND  THE  EARLY 
DAYS  OF  THE  BENGALI  DRAMA 


Long  before  Young  Bengal  had  begun  to  drink  deep  of 
English  and  other  western  literature,  both  classical  and 
modern,  its  eyes  had  been  dazzled  by  the  stagecraft  of  the 
West.  But  it  served  only  to  spotlight  the  degenerate  literary 
and  musical  taste  of  the  contemporary  Calcutta  society  and  to 
give  it  a new  vogue  that  did  not  die  down  until  the  sixties 
of  the  nineteenth  century.  Gerasim  Lebedeff,  a talented 
adventurer  from  Russia,  had  opened  a ‘Bengally  Theatre’ 
in  central  Calcutta  where  before  a full  house  he  staged  a 
Bengali  musical  play  on  27th  November  1795.  The  per- 
formance was  repeated  on  21st  March  1796.  As  Lebedeff 
has  written  in  the  preface  to  his  Grammar  of  the  Pure  and 
Mixed  East  Indian  Languages  (London  1801)  the  play  was 
a free  adaptation  of  an  English  farce  entitled  The  Disguise 
(possibly  the  same  as  The  Disguises  by  Chapman,  translator 
of  the  Iliad),  made  by  Lebedeff  in  collaboration  with  his 
Bengali  teacher  Goloknath  Das  and  with  the  approval  of 
pundits  like  Jagannath  Tarkapailcanan.  Knowing  well  that 
the  Bengali  people  preferred  the  comic  to  the  serious  and 
that  the  native  performances  were  entirely  musical  and 
mimic,  he  selected  songs  from  Bharatcandra  Ray’s  Vidya- 
sundar,  the  most  popular  poem  of  the  day,  and  set  them  in 
the  play  to  which  various  comic  interludes  were  added. 
The  play  was  performed  by  an  entirely  Indian  cast,  both 
male  and  female,  recruited  for  the  purpose  by  Goloknath  Das. 

The  two  performances  of  Lebedeff’s  musical  play  which 
was  as  much  low  comedy  as  indigenous  Yatra,  were  highly 
entertaining  to  the  audience.  They  specially  liked  the 
music  interludes  and  the  amorous  songs.  Although  Lebe- 
deff’s season  was  exceedingly  short  and  he  could  not  put 
on  the  stage  the  Bengali  version  of  another  comic  play  ( Love 
is  the  Best  Doctor)  which  he  had  prepared,  he  gave. 


192 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


unfortunately  though  unwittingly,  a new  life  to  the  lower 
type  of  the  contemporary  Yatra  play.  Bharatcandra’s 
Vidyasundar  became  the  most  popular  theme  of  the  new 
Yatra  type  in  Calcutta,  and  interludes  of  vulgar  mimicry 
of  low  class  typical  characters  became  an  integral  part  of 
such  performances.  The  influence  of  this  low  Yatra  went 
deep  and  this  type  of  Bengali  musical  play  and  low  comedy 
persisted  almost  up  to  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century. 

The  next  stage  performance  of  a Bengali  play  of  which 
anything  is  known  to  us  was  made  in  late  October  1835  at 
the  residence  of  NavTncandra  Basu  in  north  Calcutta.  It 
was  an  improvized  musical  play  on  the  Vidyasundar  story 
and  was  performed  by  a mixed  cast.  The  actresses  were 
recruited  from  professional  Kirtan  singers,  ‘Kabi’  reciters 
and  nautch  girls,  to  whom  the  impersonation  of  the  female 
characters  of  Vidyasundar  came  quite  natural. 

In  the  meanwhile  the  number  of  English-educated 
men  was  steadily  going  up  and  the  Hindu  College  boys  were 
exerting  their  influence  in  cultural  progress  and  social 
reform.  Naturally  the  novelty  of  the  stage  came  to  be  one 
of  their  main  attractions.  Prasannakumar  Tagore  and  his 
friends  set  up  the  Hindoo  Theatre  in  his  garden  house  in 
the  east  suburb  of  Calcutta.  It  was  opened  on  21st 
December  1831  with  selected  portions  of  Shakespeare’s 
Julius  Caesar  and  H.  H.  Wilson’s  English  rendering  of 
Bhavabhuti’s  Sanskrit  drama  on  the  Rama  story.  The 
various  parts  were  taken  by  the  Hindu  College  boys. 

Performance  of  English  plays,  particularly  Shakes- 
peare’s plays,  by  Bengali  students  and  professionals  was 
rather  popular  among  the  English-educated  people  of 
Calcutta  in  the  thirties,  forties  and  fifties  of  the  nineteenth 
century.  One  of  the  professionals,  Vaisnavcaran  Adhya, 
made  his  mark  by  playing  the  role  of  Othello  at  the  Sans 
Souci  Theatre  (August-September  1848).  Some  of  the 
higher  educational  institutions  held  regular  amateur  per- 
formances of  Shakespearean  drama. 


EARLY  DAYS  OF  THE  BENGALI  DRAMA 


193 


The  grandeur  of  the  European  stage  and  the  novelty 
of  acting  the  English  plays  turned  the  attention  of  the  aspi- 
rants of  literary  fame  from  the  cultivation  of  poetry  to  the 
writing  of  Bengali  plays.  There  were  a few  abortive  and 
half-hearted  attempts  by  some  Sanskritists  who  only  trans- 
lated or  adapted  Sanskrit  drama.  The  first  two  dramatic 
compositions  in  Bengali  that  may  be  called  original  came 
out  in  1852.  One  is  a comedy  modelled  more  or  less  on 
Sanskrit  and  having  for  its  theme  an  episode  from  the 
Mahabharata,  and  the  other  is  a tragedy  of  the  European 
type  based  on  a typical  Bengali  folk-tale.  Both  the  authors 
knew  English.  Taracaran  Sikdar’s  Bhadrarjun  dramatizes 
the  story  of  Subhadra’s  elopement  with  Arjuna.  The 
author  followed  the  European  model  of  the  drama  in  actions 
and  situations  as  also  in  dividing  acts  into  scenes  (the  latter 
characteristic,  unknown  in  Sanskrit  drama,  has  since  become 
an  invariable  feature  of  Bengali  plays).  Two  of  the  main 
features  of  the  Sanskrit  drama,  the  Actor-manager’s  prologue 
( nandi ) and  the  role  of  the  Jester  (vidusaka)  are  dropped. 
There  is  a prologue  of  a sort  in  verse,  containing  a gist  of 
the  play  and  an  eulogy  of  the  dramatic  art.  Bhadrarjun 
is  written  in  prose  and  verse,  and  there  are  a few  songs.  It 
has  little  value  as  a dramatic  composition  and  it  does  not 
seem  to  have  ever  been  staged.  The  Bengali  literary  world 
of  the  day  was  not  yet  quite  prepared  for  the  adoption  of 
the  European  form  of  the  drama  and  so  this  pioneer  work 
created  little  enthusiasm.  The  author,  a mathematics 
teacher  in  a reputed  educational  institution  in  Calcutta, 
did  not  feel  encouraged  to  write  a second  play.  G.  C. 
Gupta’s  Kirttivilas  is  also  written  in  prose  and  verse,  and 
its  style  is  rather  archaic  and  somewhat  less  polished  than 
that  of  Bhadrarjun.  The  plot  is  less  firmly  knit.  The  acts 
are  divided  into  several  scenes  and  the  old-fashioned  pro- 
logue is  retained.  There  are  songs  too.  The  influence  of 
Shakespeare’s  Bfamlet  is  obvious,  not  only  in  the  behaviour 
of  the  hero  but  also  in  the  arrangement  of  the  plot.  The 
13 


194 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


author  was  certainly  daring  in  writing  a tragic  play  for- 
bidden by  the  Sanskrit  dramaturgists.  There  is  a long 
preface  where  he  makes  a very  correct  judgement  of  the 
indigenous  Yatra  plays  and  their  performance  and  puts  in 
a strong  plea  for  the  European  drama.  The  author  seems 
to  have  been  well  read. 

From  1853  Bengali  playwrights  followed  two  distinct 
patterns:  one,  the  translation  and  adaptation  of  English 
plays,  specially  those  of  Shakespeare  ; and  two,  the  transla- 
tion and  adaptation  of  the  better  known  Sanskrit  dramas. 
The  works  based  on  English  originals  were  altogether  futile 
productions  ; none  of  them  were  ever  staged  nor  were  they 
accepted  as  good  reading  matter.  The  adaptations  from 
Sanskrit  were  more  acceptable,  and  the  stage  performance 
of  one  of  them,  Ramnarayan  Tarkaratna’s  Ratnavali  (first 
performed  on  31st  July  1858  at  the  garden  house  of  the 
rajas  of  Paikpara)  may  be  said  to  have  started  the  Bengali 
drama  on  its  popular  career.  Later  adaptations  of  some 
plays  of  Shakespeare  were  distinct  improvements  on  the 
earlier  attempts  and  so  they  were  staged  with  success  in 
private  and  public  theatres  in  the  middle  and  late  seven- 
ties of  the  century.  These  include  Candrakali  Ghos’s 
Kusumkuman  (1868)  based  on  Cymbeline , Haralal  Ray’s 
Rudrapal  (1874),  an  adaptation  of  Hamlet,  and  Tarinl- 
caran  Pal’s  Bhimsimha  (1875),  an  abridged  form  of  Othello. 

The  growth  of  the  Bengali  drama  in  the  late  fifties 
and  the  early  sixties  of  the  century  was  accidental  and  hap- 
hazard. It  was  the  private  stage  that  stimulated  writing  of 
plays  but  the  result  usually  fell  far  short  of  expectations. 
There  are  of  course  a few  exceptions  but  these  were  not 
primarily  conditioned  by  the  requirements  of  the  stage. 

It  was  the  spirit  of  social  reform  that  appeared  as  the 
first  and  strongest  urge  produced  by  the  impact  of  western 
education  and  culture.  This  urge,  strangely  enough,  was 
less  clearly  manifest  in  the  English-educated  young  Bengalee 
than  in  those  who  had  received  mainly  Sanskrit  education. 


EARLY  DAYS  OF  THE  BENGALI  DRAMA 


195 


Vidyasagar  was  the  leader  of  the  latter,  and  in  literature  he 
and  some  of  his  colleagues,  students  and  admirers  were 
more  vocal  and  insistent  but  less  demonstrative.  While  the 
Hindu  Collegeans  were  busy  in  staging  English  dramas  or 
translating  Shakespearean  comedies  and  tragedies,  it  was 
left  to  a Sanskrit  College  pundit  to  direct  dramatic  com- 
position to  two  of  the  most  shameful  social  problems. 
Ramnarayan  Tarkaratna’s  (1822-1886)  Kulin  Kulasarvasva 
(The  Top-ranking  Brahman  All  For  Prestige)  published 
in  1854,  was  the  first  dramatic  composition  directed 
against  the  social  backwardness  of  the  better  class  of  the 
brahman  caste.  Social  satire  had  been,  from  the  close  of 
the  previous  century,  the  most  popular  item  in  the  indi- 
genous Yatra  and  Pancall  performances,  featuring  also  in 
the  satirical  sketches  of  Bhavanicaran  Banerji  and  in  the 
poems  of  Isvarcandra  Gupta.  Tarkaratna’s  work  is  indeed 
not  much  more  than  a series  of  satirical  pictures  of  social 
customs  and  rituals  that  seemed  silly  or  pernicious  in  the 
new  light  of  the  day.  It  is  not  a drama  proper  but  to 
Tarkaratna’s  credit  it  must  be  said  that  he  was  the  first 
to  create  farce  out  of  purely  indigenous  material. 

Kulin  Kulasarvasva  was  written  in  response  to  a notice 
announcing  a reward  of  rupees  fifty  only  for  writing  a 
dramatic  work  on  the  evils  of  the  marriage  system  of  the 
Kulin  brahmans.  It  can  hardly  be  called  a farce  proper 
as  the  episodes  are  very  loosely  knit  without  much  of  a 
central  story.  Influence  of  Bharatcandra  is  patent  in  the 
verse  portions.  It  was,  however,  a stage  success  for  some 
time. 

Tarkaratna’s  Navanatak  (New  Drama),  published  in 
1866,  is  an  elaborate  and  more  pretentious  work.  It  was 
written  for  the  private  theatre  maintained  by  the  nephews 
of  Devendranath  Tagore  and  was  successfully  staged.  The 
tragic  ending  of  the  plot  is  after  the  finale  of  Nil-darpan 
by  Dlnabandhu  Mitra.  A running  didactive  note  disturbs 
the  dramatic  interest.  The  plot  is  trivial  and  centres  round 


196 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


the  persecution  of  the  senior  wife  and  son  of  a rich  zamindar 
by  his  junior  and  favourite  wife.  Ramnarayan’s  other 
dramatic  works  comprise  adaptations  of  four  Sanskrit  plays: 
Venisamhara  (1858),  Ratnavali  (1858),  Abhijnanasakuntala 
(1860)  and  Malatimadhava  (1867)  ; three  plays  on  Purana 
stories:  Rukmimharan  (1871),  Kamsavadh  (1875)  and 
Dharmavijay  (1875),  one  on  a folk-tale:  Svapnadhan 
(1875) ; and  three  (or  four)  farces  published  anonymously.1 
Among  the  numerous  works  that  went  by  the  name  of  drama 
and  were  written  on  the  evils  of  polygamy  and  early 
marriage,  two  are  worth  mention:  Sapatriinatak  (1858)  by 
Tarakcandra  Cudamani,  and  Sambandhasamadhi  (1867)  by 
an  anonymous  author  who  was  probably  no  other  than 
Tarkaratna. 

Widow  remarriage  was  the  most  popular  subject  on  which 
scores  of  books  and  pamphlets  called  drama  were  written. 
The  first  man  to  write  in  support  of  the  Widow  Remarriage 
Act  was  Woomesh  Chandra  Mitra.  His  Vidhavavivaha 
Natak  (1856),  inspired  by  Vidyasagar’s  treatise  on  the  shastric 
sanction  for  widow  remarriage,  became  quite  successful  on 
the  stage.  In  spite  of  the  dreary  soliloquies  and  a few  vulgar 
touches  of  the  Vidyasundar  sort  the  story  as  unfolded  is  not 
devoid  of  dramatic  effect  and  conviction.  The  author’s 
claim  that  it  ‘is  the  first  attempt  made  to  introduce  regular 
tragedy  into  Bengallee  drama’  is  not  unfounded,  in  spite  of 
Kirttivilds  (1852). 

Mitra  was  an  admirer  of  the  works  of  Vidyasagar,  and 
this  is  shown  by  his  only  other  dramatic  composition  which 
is  a dramatic  version  (1865)  of  Vidyasagar’s  prose  narrative 
on  the  exile  of  Sita.  Mitra  organized  a Yatra  party  in  south 
Calcutta  where  the  Yatra  version  of  his  Sitar  Vanavas 
was  repeatedly  performed  with  uniform  success.  His 
Vidhavavivaha  Natak  was  also  a stage  success. 

The  success  of  Mitra’s  play  on  widow  remarriage  was 

1 These  are  generally  ascribed  to  Maharaja  Jatindramohan  Tagore,  one 
of  the  best  patrons  of  Tarkaratna. 


EARLY  DAYS  OF  THE  BENGALI  DRAMA 


197 


responsible  for  the  first  modern  drama  written  in  Assamese. 
Gunabhiram  Barua’s  Ramanavaml  Natak,  written  in  1857 
and  published  first  in  instalments  in  a monthly  magazine 
(. Arunoday ) and  much  later  (1870)  in  book  form,  was  directly 
inspired  by  Mitra’s  play.  Another  play  written  in  support 
of  widow  remarriage  needs  mention.  It  is  V idhavaviraha 
Natak  (Bereavement  of  a Widow),  published  in  1859  and 
written  by  Samuel  Pir  Bakhsh,  a Muslim  who  had  adopted 
the  Christian  faith.  The  plot,  apparently  based  on  fact,  is 
vulgar  but  realistic. 

The  orthodox  opposition  to  widow  remarriage  was  not 
silent.  But  their  attempts  in  the  dramatic  field  were  a total 
misfire.  None  of  their  work  is  worth  mentioning. 

Impressed  by  the  brilliant  stage  show  (July  1858)  of 
Tarkaratna’s  version  of  the  Sanskrit  comedy  Ratnavali, 
Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt  who  was  soon  destined  to  in- 
augurate modern  Bengali  poetry  was  prompted  to  try 
his  hand  at  dramatic  composition.  Before  that  he  had 
written  only  English  verse.  His  Sarmistha  (1858)  was 
written  for  and  brilliantly  staged  (1859)  as  a private  per- 
formance at  the  north-suburban  garden  house  of  the  two 
raja  brothers  of  Paikpara,  Iswar  Chandra  and  Pratap  Chandra 
Sinha.  It  was  by  far  the  best  play  that  had  yet  been  written 
in  Bengali.  The  plot  was  taken  from  a story  in  the  First 
Book  of  the  Mahabharata.  The  treatment  was  more  after 
Kalidasa  than  after  the  western  dramatists,  but  the  author 
did  not  follow  faithfully  the  dicta  of  Sanskrit  dramaturgy. 
The  play  was  translated  into  English  by  the  author  himself  for 
the  use  of  the  high  British  officials  who  witnessed  the  show. 
In  the  ‘Advertisement’  of  Sermista  (as  the  English  translation 
by  the  author  is  entitled),  published  in  1859,  Dutt  claims  that 
the  original  ‘is  the  first  attempt  in  the  Bengali  language  to 
produce  a classical  and  regular  drama’. 

Sarmistha  was  followed  by  Padmavati  (written  in  1859, 
published  in  1860).  The  story  is  an  Indianized  version  of 
the  story  of  the  golden  apple  from  Greek  mythology.  It  is 


198 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


not  exclusively  in  prose  as  Sarmistha  was  ; there  are  passages 
in  unrhymed  verse  which  is  its  first  occurrence  in  Bengali. 
As  a play  Padmavati  shows  no  improvement.  But  had  Dutt 
been  daring  enough  to  use  unrhymed  verse  throughout  it 
would  have  been  a success.  The  play  does  not  appear  to 
have  been  staged  before  the  establishment  of  the  public 
theatre  in  December  1872. 

Dutt’s  third  drama  Krsnakumari  (1861  for  private  cir- 
culation, 1865  for  public  sale)  was  written  in  a month 
(August  6 to  September  7,  1860).  The  story  is  taken  from 
Tod’s  Rajasthan  which  since  the  publication  of  Rangalal 
Banerji’s  Padmini  (1858)  had  become  almost  a scripture  to 
the  nationalistically  self-conscious  educated  young  men  of 
Bengal.  The  treatment  of  the  plot  followed  the  pattern  of 
the  Greek  tragedy2  with  a marked  influence  of  Shakespeare. 
The  attempt  was  certainly  bold,  and  the  play  was  superior  to 
anything  of  the  genre  yet  produced  in  Bengali.  The  play  is 
written  entirely  in  prose.  There  are  however  some  songs. 
The  rising  spirit  of  nationalism  is  echoed  in  the  soliloquy  of 
the  father  of  the  heroine.  Krsnakumari  was  very  successfully 
staged  by  the  Jorasanko  Theatre,  a private  stage  organized 
by  the  nephews  and  sons  of  Devendranath  Tagore  and  their 
friends  (1865). 

Dutt’s  next  play  Mayakanan  (Enchanted  Forest)  was 
written  long  afterwards  (when  the  poet  had  come  to  the  end 
of  his  tether)  for  one  of  the  public  theatres.  It  was  published 
posthumously  in  January  and  staged  for  the  first  time  on 
April  18,  1874.  The  story  is  romantic  and  depressingly 
tragic,  reflecting  perhaps  the  frustrations  of  the  life  of  the 
author.  Characterization,  however,  is  good. 

Soon  after  the  successful  performance  of  Sarmistha, 
when  Padmavati  was  hardly  finished,  Dutt  was  impelled  to 
write  two  farces  satirizing  respectively  the  two  leading  evils 


2 There  are  faint  but  unmistakable  traces  of  the  influence  of  Euripides’ 
Iphigeneia.  The  author  projected  an  English  translation  or  adaptation 
entitled  The  Flower  of  Rajasthan. 


EARLY  DAYS  OF  THE  BENGALI  DRAMA 


199 


of  the  day:  the  drunken  stupidity  of  the  half-educated 
young  rich  and  the  adulterous  hypocrisy  of  the  pious-looking 
old.  Both  plays  were  published  in  1859.  The  first  was 
entitled  Ekei  Ki  Bale  Sabhyata  (Is  This  What  Is  Called 
Culture?)  and  the  second  Buda  Saliker  Ghade  Rom  (The 
Silvered  Rake — literally,  ‘The  Old  Myna  Growing  Downs 
on  Its  Neck’).  They  are  excellent  satires,  will  written  and 
incisive.  They  are  among  the  best  farces  in  Bengali  and 
have  influenced  almost  all  the  subsequent  productions  of 
the  type.  Ekei  Ki  Bale  Sabhyata  was  staged  in  1865  by  the 
Jorasanko  Theatre  and  by  the  Sabhabazar  Theatre3  where 
Krsnakumari  too  was  staged.  The  stage  success  of  the  farce 
made  the  apparent  targets  of  the  fire  of  the  other  farce  sit 
up  and  look  out.  In  consequence  the  private  theatres  did 
not  feel  any  enthusiasm  for  staging  The  Silvered  Rake.  That 
was  done  only  after  the  public  stage  had  been  established. 

Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt  wrote  in  English  a dramatic 
poem  called  Rizia : Empress  of  Ind.  The  theme  is  taken 
from  Indian  history  of  the  thirteenth  century.  It  was  written 
when  Dutt  was  in  Madras  (1848-56)  but  was  never  published. 
He  had  intended  to  re-write  the  play  in  Bengali  after  the  pub- 
lication of  Krsnakumari.  So  he  wrote  to  a friend  on  Septem- 
ber 1,  1860:  ‘I  am  quite  ready  to  undertake  another  drama, 
but  this  must  be  acted  first.  We  ought  to  take  up  Indo- 
Mussalman  subjects.  The  Mohammedans  are  a fiercer  race 
than  ourselves,  and  would  afford  splendid  opportunity  for 
the  display  of  passion.  Their  women  are  more  cut  out  for 
intrigue  than  ours.  . . . After  this,  we  must  look  to  Rizia.  I 
hope  that  will  be  a drama  after  your  own  heart.  The  pre- 
judice against  Moslem  names  must  be  given  up.’ 

Dutt  translated  three  Bengali  plays  into  English : Tarka- 
ratna’s  Rat  naval!  (1858),  his  own  Sarmistha  (1859)  and 
Dinabandhu  Mitra’s  Nil-darpan  or  The  Mirror  of  Indigo 
Planting  (1860).  The  last  was  published  anonymously  by 

3 Organized  by  the  members  of  the  Deb  family  established  by  Raja  Naba- 
krishna,  the  munshi  of  Warren  Hastings. 


200 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


the  Rev.  J.  Long.  Dutt  had  also  intended  to  translate 
Woo  mesh  Chandra  Mitra’s  V i dhavavivaha  Natak. 

Dlnabandhu  Mitra  (1829-71),  a student  of  the  Hooghly 
College  and  an  officer  in  the  Postal  Department,  infused  new 
enthusiasm  in  play-writing  by  drawing  the  flagging  attention 
of  the  larger  number  of  the  reading  and  the  very  restricted 
number  of  the  stage-going  public  from  the  social  vices  of  the 
cit\  -dwelling  upper  class  to  the  economic  exploitation  of  the 
dumb  rural  masses.  Indigo  cultivation  was  then  the  most 
important  industry  in  Bengal  and  was  entirely  controlled  by 
British  interests.  The  masters  of  the  plantations  and  attached 
factories  were  Britishers  with  little  education  and  less 
sympathy.  With  the  passive  indulgence  of  some  of  the  ad- 
ministrative officers  of  the  government  or  encouraged  by  their 
indifference,  the  indigo  planters  did  what  they  liked  to  the 
peasantry.  Dmabandhu  Mitra’s  native  place  Jessore  was  one 
of  the  worst  affected  regions,  and  he  had  good  information  as 
well  as  his  own  experience.  He  wrote  his  first  play  Nil-darpan 
(Dacca  1860)  giving  a grim  picture  of  inhuman  villainy  and 
torture.  As  a dramatic  composition  its  defects  are  manifold 
and  patent  but  as  a gripping  stage  play  it  was  effective,  and 
it  went  a long  way  towards  the  supression  of  the  evil.  The 
characters  are  generally  vivid  and  natural,  being  taken 
directly  from  life.  For  its  propaganda  value  NTl-darpan 
belongs  to  the  same  class  of  effective  books  as  Uncle  Tom’s 
Cabin,  Nicholas  Nickleby  and  Oliver  Twist. 

Mitra’s  second  play  Navin-tapasvini  (The  Young  Woman 
Recluse,  Krishnagar  1863)  comprises  two  thinly  connected 
plots,  one  a farcial  storv  partly  adapted  from  Merry  Wives  of 
Windsor  and  the  other  based  on  an  indigenous  folk-tale. 
Characterization  is  mechanical,  and  the  style  artificial.  The 
third  play  Sadhavar  Ekddasi  (Forced  Widowhood  of  a Married 
Girl.  1866)  is  the  best  work  of  Mitra  and  one  of  the  best  plays 
in  the  language,  although  its  defects  are  obvious.  It  is  carica- 
turistic  rather  than  satirical,  and  the  plot  was  partly  modelled 
after  Dutt’s  farce  on  the  drunkenness  and  profligacy  of  the 


EARLY  DAYS  OF  THE  BENGALI  DRAMA 


201 


English-educated  young  men.  The  central  character  of 
Nimchand  Dutt  has  relieved  the  plot  from  triteness  and  has 
raised  the  play  from  a mere  farce  to  a tragedy.  The  character 
is  admirably  conceived  and  brilliantly  delineated,  being  partly 
modelled  after  the  scholar  and  poet  Michael  Madhusudan 
Dutt. 

Mitra’s  other  dramatic  works  are  either  farces  or  farce- 
ridden  light  comedies  and  include  Biye-Pagla  Budo  (Old  Man 
Mad  for  Marriage,  1866), 4 Lildvatl  (1867),  Jamai-Barik  (The 
Barrack  for  Sons-in-law,  1872)’  and  Kamale-Kamini  (1873). 
The  last  named  play  was  based  partly  on  an  historical 
anecdote  of  Cachar. 

Dlnabandhu  Mitra’s  works  made  little  contribution  to 
the  development  of  the  Bengali  drama  but  as  stage  plays  they 
were  unqualified  successes  in  the  early  days  of  the  public 
theatre.  As  a matter  of  fact  the  public  theatre  opened 
(December  1872)  with  Mitra’s  plays  and  for  some  time  had 
to  depend  mainly  on  his  plays  for  the  box-office  returns. 
Mitra’s  plays  abound  in  low  comedy  and  light  humour  (often 
verging  on  the  vulgar)  that  were  more  acceptable  to  the  stage- 
going public  than  were  subtle  characterization  and  dramatic 
suspense.  By  the  end  of  the  century  the  taste  of  the  stage 
audience  had  changed  and  Mitra’s  plays  could  no  longer 
be  staged  without  considerable  expunction. 

It  is  no  wonder  that  Manomohan  Basu  (1831-1912),  a 
literary  disciple  of  Isvarcandra  Gupta  and  writer  of  Kabi 
songs,  should  introduce  stage  plays  on  popular  mythological 
stories  with  an  undercurrent  of  devotion  ( bhakti ).  It  was 
by  him  and  thus  that  the  course  of  Bengali  drama  was  diverted 
towards  the  old  Yatra,  and  the  new  Yatra  was  born.  Long 
speeches  and  soliloquies  indicate  the  influence  of  the  old 
style  of  popular  devotional  entertainment  (‘Kathakata’). 
There  was  also  a preponderance  of  songs.  There  is  little 


4 The  plot  is  based  on  fact. 

8 Some  of  the  author’s  friends  and  contemporary  celebrities  have  been 
mildly  satirized  in  some  minor  characters  or  are  mentioned  casually. 


202 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


ingenuity  in  the  development  of  the  plot,  and  the  style  is 
heavy  and  old  fashioned. 

Basu’s  first  attempt  was  Ramabhisek  (Enthronement  of 
Rama,  1867),  the  first  Bengali  original  play  to  be  written  on 
the  story  of  Rama.  It  is  mostly  in  prose.  His  second  play 
Pranayparlksa  (Test  of  Love,  1869)  is  based  on  a bookish 
romantic  story  showing  the  evils  of  polygamy.  It  is  influenced 
by  Tarkaratna’s  Navanatak,  but  it  does  not  end  in  tragedy. 
The  plot  could  have  been  treated  better  in  a novel.  The  third 
play,  Sati  Natak  (1873),  is  the  best  known  of  Basu’s  works. 
It  deals  with  the  puranic  story  of  Siva  and  Sati  and  is  the  only 
play  with  a tragic  ending  the  author  ever  wrote.  In  the  second 
edition  (1877)  the  playwright  had  to  bow  to  orthodox  criticism 
and  so  to  add  a final  act  showing  the  union  of  Siva  with  Sati 
incarnated  as  the  daughter  of  Himalaya.  An  important  new 
feature  in  Safi  Natali  is  the  role  of  the  mad  fellow  Santiram, 
mad  in  appearance  and  behaviour  but  a saint  at  heart.  Two 
decades  later  Girish  Chandra  Ghosh  won  popularity  on  the 
stage  by  centring  the  plots  of  his  religious  plays  on  such 
saintly  characters  in  disguise. 

His  fourth  play  which  treated  the  puranic  story  of 
Hariscandra  (1875)  leaned  more  frankly  towards  the  Yatra 
which  by  now  had  practically  become  theatrical  play  without 
a proper  stage,  with  an  abundance  of  songs  and  long  speeches. 
The  newly  awakened  spirit  of  nationalism  found  echo  in  the 
play.  In  the  remaining  five  plays — four  on  puranic  themes 
and  one  (1875)  a satire  on  a local  religious  institution — there 
is  nothing  that  is  remarkable.  They  are  Yatra  pieces  rather 
than  stage  plays.  Basu’s  last  play  Satir  Abhiman  (published  in 
1910-11  serially  in  a magazine  devoted  to  the  stage)  narrates 
in  prose  and  verse  the  story  of  Sita’s  entry  into  the  bowels  of 
the  earth. 

The  Bowbazar  Theatre,  a private  amateur  theatrical 
party,  like  all  its  contemporaries,  started  with  the  perform- 
ance of  Basu’s  Ramabhisek  in  early  1868.  Sail  Natak  also 
was  repeatedly  staged  with  great  success.  The  theatre  was 


EARLY  DAYS  OF  THE  BENGALI  DRAMA 


203 


closed  down  soon  after  the  staging  of  Hariscandra  Natak  in 
early  1875.  Basu’s  plays  were  not  deemed  suitable  for  the 
public  theatre  in  its  early  days,  and  with  the  solitary  exception 
of  Pranaypanksa  (staged  at  the  Great  National  Theatre  on 
January  17,  1874)  there  is  no  record  of  successful  public 
performance  of  them. 


17 


FORERUNNERS  OF  THE  NEW  POETRY 


English  education  opened  up  the  panoramic  vista  of  English 
literature  and  through  it,  of  European  classical  literature  as 
well.  It  started  with  the  establishment  of  Hindu  College 
in  Calcutta  (1817)  to  be  followed  not  much  later  by  the 
establishment  of  Colleges  at  Hooghly  and  Krishnagar  and 
some  other  towns.  For  some  decades  the  number  of  persons 
receiving  English  education  in  the  Calcutta  and  outside 
colleges  was  not  large,  but  their  influence  based  on  academic 
prestige  was  not  small.  Social  reform,  or  rather  fight  against 
petty  orthodoxy,  claimed  their  best  attention,  and  in  spite 
of  their  liking  for  their  own  literature  they  did  not  feel  much 
enthusiasm  for  cultivating  it  as  they  knew  that  writing  in 
English  was  sure  to  bring  much  greater  kudos.  The  first 
Bengalee  to  write  English  verse  was  Kasiprasad  Chose 
(d.  1873),  one  of  the  first  alumni  of  Hindu  College.  His 
verses  were  first  published  in  Hurkaru,  one  of  the  best- 
circulated  English  dailies  in  Calcutta,  and  then  brought  out 
in  an  anthology  The  Shah  and  the  Other  Poems  (1830). 
Bharatcandra  was  still  looked  upon  as  the  greatest  poet  in 
Bengali  and  Ghose  paid  his  modicum  of  compliment  to  the 
poet  of  Vidyasundar  by  translating  portions  of  it  into  English 
verse.  K.  M.  Banerji’s  The  Persecuted  (1831)  was  the  first 
play  written  by  a Bengalee  in  English.  The  best  equipped 
but  the  worst  affected  among  the  seekers  of  poetic  fame 
through  English  was  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt,  the  future 
initiator  of  the  new  poetry,  who  turned  to  his  mother 
tongue  partly  by  accident  and  partly  in  a spirit  of  bravado. 
The  father  of  Bengali  fiction,  Bankimchandra  Chatterji, 
wrote  one  of  his  first  novels  ( Rajmohan’s  Wife,  published 
serially  in  the  Indian  Field,  1864)  also  in  English. 

It  was  through  translation  that  contemporary  Bengali 
literature  first  made  contact  with  English.  It  was  still  the 
heyday  of  Bharatcandra  and  his  school  of  Vile  poetry’  as 


FORERUNNERS  OF  THE  NEW  POETRY 


205 


Dutt  called  it.  So  the  first  books  to  be  rendered  into  Bengali 
verse  were  Arabian  Nights  Entertainments  (1831)  and  Persian 
Tales  (1834),  to  be  followed  by  Gay’s  Fables  (1836).  Next 
come  the  prose  translation  of  Johnson’s  Rasselas  (before  1840) 
and  of  Arabian  Nights  (1838),  not  to  mention  the  various 
textbooks  and  some  Christian  classics  and  tracts.  English 
poetry  in  translation  did  not  appear  before  the  fifties  of  the 
century  when  the  first  few  cantos  of  Paradise  Lost  were 
published  anonymously  in  1854.  But  such  translations  were 
unacceptable  to  the  general  public  and  unnecessary  to  the 
English-educated  reader. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  thirties  of  the  nineteenth 
century  (to  be  precise,  in  1838)  Persian  was  replaced  by 
Bengali  as  the  language  of  the  law  and  the  revenue  courts. 
This  gave  an  unexpected  impetus  to  the  cultivation  of 
literary  Bengali  which  led  to  the  development  of  the  standard 
literary  prose.  Poetry  was  naturally  neglected  and  it  was 
left  to  the  writers  of  songs,  satires  and  amorous  tales  to  write 
verse.  In  the  twenties  of  the  century  Radhamohan  Sen  was 
unanimously  hailed  as  the  topmost  contemporary  poet  as 
Nidhu  Babu  was  in  the  past  generation.  Sen  knew  Persian 
and  Sanskrit.  He  wrote  songs.  But  his  achievement  was 
indeed  poor.  He  produced  also  a treatise  on  classical  music 
(1818),  translated  an  eighteenth  century  Sanskrit  work 
(1826)  and  commented  on  the  poem  of  Bharatcandra  (1833), 
all  written  in  verse.  Kasiprasad  Ghose,  the  first  Bengali 
writer  of  English  verse,  also  wrote  a number  of  songs  in 
Bengali. 

Amorous  romantic  tales  in  verse  on  the  model  of  Vidya- 
sundar  and  similar  tales  were  printed  for  the  consumption 
of  the  less  educated  townfolk.  The  best  known  writer  of 
this  class  was  Madanmohan  Tarkalankar*  (1815-57),  a good 
pundit  who  became  later  a protagonist  of  social  reform.  His 
Vasavadatta  is  an  adaptation  of  the  Sanskrit  prose  romance 
of  the  same  title.  It  was  written  when  he  was  still  a student 
at  Sanskrit  College  (1836).  His  earlier  work  Rasatarahgini 


206 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


(Stream  of  Sweetness)  is  a metrical  translation  of  some  of  the 
very  well-known  erotic  verses  in  Sanskrit. 

The  credit  of  clearing  the  ground  for  the  appearance  of 
the  new  poetry  goes  to  a poet  who  had  turned  a journalist. 
Isvarcandra  Gupta  (1812-59)  dominated  Bengali  literature 
from  the  middle  thirties  to  the  late  fifties  of  the  century  and 
bridged  the  gulf  between  the  old  poetry  and  the  new.  It 
was  left  to  one  of  his  best  assistants,  Rangalal  Banerji,  to 
write  the  first  long  poem  that  did  not  conform  to  the  known 
models  of  poetry.  Gupta  wrote  fearful  prose,  but  his  verse 
is  often  delightfully  simple.  Some  of  his  poems  are  openly 
didactic  and  some  are  redolent  of  nostalgia  for  the  vanishing 
customs  and  traditions.  Quite  a number  of  them  are  either 
satires  on  the  foreign  ways  of  the  English-educated  or  are 
attacks  on  the  zeal  of  the  social  reformer.  Sarcasm  and  wit 
were  his  strong  points.  His  vocabulary  included  native  words 
that  had  been  considered  inelegant  for  literary  use,  and  his 
metrical  skill  was  not  inconsiderable.  Gupta  was  a lover  of 
the  late  eighteenth  century  poems  and  songs  that  were  fashion- 
able in  the  Calcutta  region — of  Bharatcandra,  Ramprasad 
and  the  ‘Kabiwallas’ — and  this  love  conditioned  his  main 
literary  activities.  Gupta’s  enthusiasm  for  his  predecessors’ 
poetry  brought  to  light  a mass  of  unknown  material  regarding 
these  authors.  Gupta  knew  some  English  but  many  of  his 
literary  pupils  possessed  a sound  knowledge  of  the  English 
language  and  literature.  It  was  really  by  their  help  that 
he  was  able  to  follow  English  poetry  in  some  of  his  didactic 
poems. 

Gupta  was  the  editor  of  the  weekly  (later  also  daily) 
paper  Samvadprabhakar  (The  Sun  of  Information)  and  almost 
all  of  his  writings  had  first  appeared  in  its  pages.  . His  major 
works  include  a translation  (in  part)  of  Hitopadesa  in  prose 
and  verse  and  a translation  (1857)  of  the  allegorical  drama 
Prabodhacandrodaya.  Gupta  intended  the  latter  for  stage 
performance  and  so  he  inserted  some  original  verses  and  songs. 
As  a play  the  work  was  hopeless  but  the  original  verses  and 


FORERUNNERS  OF  THE  NEW  POETRY 


207 


songs  appearing  in  it  are  among  the  best  that  Gupta  ever 
wrote. 

Gupta  actively  encouraged  writing  of  verse  by  the  school 
and  college  students,  and  he  was  always  ready  to  publish 
their  attempts  in  his  paper.  Among  these  neophytes  were 
some  of  the  best  writers  of  the  sixties  and  seventies  of  the 
century,  viz.  Rahgalal  Banerji,  Dinabandhu  Mitra  and 
Bankimchandra  Chatterji.  With  the  exception  of  Banerji 
the  young  aspirants  to  poetic  fame  produced  only  mechanical 
verses  as  they  lacked  both  the  equipment  and  the  inspiration 
of  their  master.  However  superficial  and  prejudiced  the 
critical  mind  of  Isvaracandra  Gupta  was,  he  was  not  fully 
appreciated  by  his  young  pupils  even  at  his  best. 

Rahgalal  Banerji  (1826-86)  was  not  only  a literary  pupil 
of  Gupta  but  also  a collaborator  of  his  in  his  journalistic 
activity.  Banerji,  like  Gupta,  was  almost  entirely  self- 
educated,  but  the  range  of  his  education  was  wider.  His 
knowledge  of  English  literature  was  good  and  of  Sanskrit 
was  sound.  He  also  possessed  an  active  interest  in  ancient 
Indian  history  and  archaeology.  Rajendralal  Mitra  had  re- 
ceived much  assistance  from  him  when  he  wrote  his  tomes 
on  Orissan  architecture.  When  as  a government  servant  he 
was  posted  in  Orissa  he  read  Oriya  and  wrote  articles  in 
Bengali  on  Oriya  literature,  and  thus  he  was  the  first  to 
introduce  Oriya  poetry  to  the  outside  world.  One  of  his 
own  poems  was  based  on  an  anecdote  from  the  traditional 
history  of  Orissa.  In  the  early  days  of  his  literary  career 
Banerji  like  his  master  was  a staunch  protagonist  of  Bengali 
literature.  In  reply  to  an  unfavourable  estimate  of  Bengali 
literature  made  in  a paper  read  at  the  Bethune  Society, 
Banerji  wrote  a long  essay  also  read  at  the  Society  and 
subsequently  published  in  book  form  (1852).  Six  years  later, 
in  the  preface  of  his  metrical  translation  of  the  mock  heroic 
Batrachomuomakia,  Banerji  appears  to  have  modified  his 
views  and  he  makes  a strong  plea  for  adopting  European 
poetry  into  Bengali. 


208 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Tod’s  Annals  of  Rajasthan  was  avidly  read  by  the  edu- 
cated Bengali  as  it  vicariously  supplied  some  solace  to  their 
wounded  vanity,  since  India  was  under  the  subjugation  of 
the  British  and  the  Bengali  people  had  no  opening  for  a 
military  career.  The  Muslim  rulers  of  the  bygone  centuries 
were  the  targets  of  attack  in  Indian  history  then  known  and 
so  the  educated  Bengalee  was  content  to  put  all  blame  on 
them.  The  misfire  of  the  Sepoy  Mutiny  increased  the 
prestige  of  the  British  and  lowered  still  further  the  prestige 
of  the  old  Muslim  rulers.  This  is  why  the  sentimental 
outbursts  of  patriotic  enthusiasm  were  directed  against  these 
Muslim  rulers  who  were  known  to  have  been  markedly 
antagonistic  to  the  Hindus.  Nevertheless  it  will  be  wrong 
to  think  that  the  poets  had  any  special  motive  for  the 
antagonism  against  their  Muslim  neighbours.  In  the  phra- 
seology of  contemporary  literature  the  Muslim  is  the  symboli- 
cal target  for  the  futile  frettings  of  a subject  race  coming 
slowly  to  self-consciousness. 

Banerji’s  Padmini  Upakhyan  (Story  of  Padmini,  1858) 
was  the  first  Bengali  narrative  romance  of  the  new  pattern, 
and  it  was  also  the  first  poem  with  a twisted  outlook  of 
patriotism.  Banerji  possibly  took  his  cue  from  Michael 
Madhusudan  Butt’s  English  poem  Captive  Ladie  (Madras 
1848).  The  theme  is  the  rape  of  Chitor  by  Alauddin,  Sultan 
of  Delhi,  as  narrated  by  Tod.  The  prologue  imitates  Scott’s 
romances : the  tale  is  told  by  a bard  well  posted  in  the  local 
lore  to  an  itinerant  young  man.  The  poem  is  entirely 
narrative,  and  the  form  is  markedly  different  from  the 
traditional  romance.  There  are  a few  lines  and  passages 
paraphrased  from  English  poets  such  as  Thomas  Moore, 
Shakespeare  and  Byron.  The  metre  is  mainly  the  traditional 
Payar  and  Tripad!  but  there  is  also  an  attempt  at  innovation 
by  extending  the  Payar  line  of  verse  beyond  the  fourteen 
syllables. 

When  Banerji’s  second  narrative  poem  Karmadevi 
(1862)  came  out  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt  had  already 


FORERUNNERS  OF  THE  NEW  POETRY 


209 


come  out  as  an  outstanding  poet  with  his  two  attempts  in 
‘epic’  poetry  written  in  free  (and  unrhyming)  Payar  verse. 
But  there  is  no  evidence  of  Dutt’s  influence  in  Banerji’s 
poetry  except  in  the  division  of  the  poem  into  Cantos  (there 
was  no  such  division  in  Padmini)  and  in  a few  insignificant 
stylistic  mannerisms  which  probably  indicate  Dutt’s  per- 
functory revision.  (The  two  were  friends  from  their  boyhood 
days  as  their  families  were  neighbours  at  Kidderpore  in 
Calcutta.)  The  story  of  Karmadevi  as  well  as  that  of  the  next 
poem  Surasundarl  (The  Brave  Beauty,  1868)  was  taken  from 
Rajput  history.  Karmadevi  is  more  descriptive  and  narrative 
than  Padmini  and  also  gives  a clearer  idea  of  the  author’s 
patriotic  ideal.  He  has  been  unequivocal  in  his  condemna- 
tion of  the  pervading  spirit  of  petty  jealousy  and  the  absence 
of  manliness  in  any  sphere  of  activity  of  the  Bengali  people. 

There  is  a complete  lack  of  mutual  amity  in  Hindu- 
stan: Nobody  cares  for  his  race,  family  or  friend. 
Accumulation  of  small  riches  swells  the  head:  It  is 
difficult  to  ascertain  the  really  rich  from  the  lesser. 

The  men  of  Bengal  are  not  manly  ; they  are  fond  of  fun 
and  amusements  preferred  by  women.  How  can  a boy 
take  to  the  manly  path  when  as  a child  his  pet  doll  is 
an  old  man  smoking  his  hukka?  The  people  of  the 
West  want  the  fruits  of  manliness,  and  see  about  the 
toys  of  their  children. 

Surasundarl  marks  a distinct  fall  of  the  poet’s  power, 
but  the  next  poem,  written  some  ten  years  later,  Kanci-Kaveri 
(1879),  shows  some  rallying.  The  story  is  taken  from  an 
old  Oriya  poem  by  Purusottamdas,  recounting  one  of  the 
best  romantic  tales  from  the  history  of  Orissa.  * The  in- 
teresting historical  background  and  the  undercurrent  of 
religious  devotion  is  a relief  from  the  monotony  of  unreal 
heroism  and  inarticulate  patriotism  of  Banerji’s  earlier 
poems.  The  style  is  smooth.  The  story  is  outlined  below. 
Kapilendra  the  king  of  Orissa  had  a score  of  sons  of 
14 


210 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


whom  the  youngest  and  the  best,  Purusottam,  was  born  of 
one  of  his  concubines.  Instructed  in  a dream  oracle  by 
Jagannath,  the  presiding  deity  of  Orissa,  the  king  declared 
Purusottam  as  his  heir-apparent.  The  elder  and  legitimate 
sons  revolted  but  Purusottam  quelled  them,  and  they 
■were  compelled  to  leave  Orissa.  The  old  king  died  and 
Purusottam  succeeded  him.  Marriage  was  arranged  between 
him  and  Princess  PadmavatT  of  Kancl.  The  king  of  KancT 
came  to  Puri  to  have  a talk  with  the  son-in-law  elect.  It  was 
the  day  of  the  Car  Festival.  When  the  car  of  Jagannath  is 
on  the  move  the  king  of  Orissa  takes  a broomstick  of  gold 
and  clears  the  road  of  dirt  and  dust.  It  was  a very  old 
custom  signifying  that  the  king  of  Orissa  was  but  a humble 
servant  of  Jagannath.  But  the  king  of  Kancl  failed  to  see 
the  significance  of  the  custom  and  did  not  like  that  a man 
who  has  to  do  street  cleaning  of  a sort  should  marry  his 
daughter.  He  broke  the  engagement  and  went  away. 
Purusottam  felt  humiliated  and  vowed  before  Jagannath  that 
within  three  years  three  months  and  three  days  he  would 
subjugate  the  king  of  KancT  and  would  give  his  daughter 
in  marriage  to  a scavenger.  With  an  inadequate  army 
Purusottam  marched  against  KancT.  In  the  fight  that  ensued 
the  king  of  Orissa  would  have  been  beaten  but  for  the  help 
rendered  by  Jagannath  and  his  brother  Balaram  (the  other 
deity  at  Puri)  who  in  guise  of  horsemen  riding  a black  and 
a white  horse  respectively  fought  for  Purusottam  and  won 
the  battle  for  him.  The  king  returned  to  his  capital  with 
PadmavatT  and  the  image  of  Ganesa  that  was  the  patron  deity 
of  the  royal  house  of  KancT. 

Purusottam  was  ready  to  give  away  PadmavatT  to  a very 
lowcaste  street-cleaner  but  the  cleverness  of  his  minister  came 
to  the  rescue.  He  pleaded  with  the  king  to  postpone  the 
marriage  and  the  king  was  not  unwilling  as  he  had  by  this 
time  fallen  in  love  with  the  princess.  The  day  of  the  Car 
Festival  came  and  the  king  was  out  with  his  broomstick  when 
the  minister  appeared  with  PadmavatT  and  placed  her  right 


FORERUNNERS  OF  THE  NEW  POETRY 


211 


hand  on  the  left  hand  of  the  king.  For  the  time  being  the 
king  was  a lowclass  street-cleaner  and  the  vow  was  not 
violated. 

Banerji  made  a metrical  rendering  of  Kalidasa’s  Kumar a- 
sambhava  (1872)  and  translated  some  two  hundred  and  odd 
verses  of  Sanskrit  anonymous  ( udbhata ) verses. 

Raiigalal  Banerji’s  main  shortcoming  as  the  first  writer 
of  the  new  verse  is  that  he  failed  to  build  up  a diction  for 
it.  The  contrivances  of  the  old  poetry  were  worn  thin  and 
its  expressions  had  become  trite  and  almost  meaningless. 
Banerji  could  not  set  up  his  own  idiom  nor  could  he  inject 
new  content  into  old  words  or  add  fresh  nuances  to  old 
expressions.  He  had  imagination  but  his  style  was  old- 
fashioned  and  affected. 

One  of  Banerji’s  brothers,  Ganescandra  (cl.  1866),  also 
wrote  poetry,  some  of  which  was  published  in  Gupta’s  paper. 
His  later  poetry  shows  influence  of  Michael  Madhusudan 
Dutt’s  odes  on  the  lore  of  Radha  and  Krsna. 


18 


MICHAEL  MADHUSUDAN  DUTT 
AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS 


Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt  (1824-1873),  or  simply  Madhu- 
sudan  Datta  as  he  was  known  before  his  conversion  to 
Christianity,  was  the  son  of  a successful  lawyer  practising 
in  Calcutta.  Being  the  only  surviving  child  he  was  pampered 
by  a fond  mother  and  a fonder  father.  Like  many  boys  of 
the  middle  class  families  Dutt  had  his  first  lessons  in  his 
mother  tongue  and  in  Persian  and  was  admitted  into  an 
English  school  at  Kidderpore,  the  south-western  subarb  of 
Calcutta,  where  the  family  had  their  town  residence.  In 
1837  he  left  the  Kidderpore  school  and  entered  Hindu 
College  which  he  left  in  February  1843  (when  he  was 
reading  in  the  second  class  of  the  senior  department)  to 
adopt  Christianity.  Dutt  was  one  of  the  most  brilliant 
students  of  his  class  and  perhaps  the  best  English  scholar  of 
his  college.  D.  L.  Richardson  was  very  fond  of  his  pupil 
who  was  even  then  writing  verses  in  English  and  publishing 
them  in  the  various  periodicals  of  Calcutta.  Richardson’s 
influence  on  the  high-strung  and  impressionable  boy  was 
profound  and  on  the  whole  it  was  not  conducive  to  his  good. 

Dutt’s  love  for  English  poetry,  however,  was  not  caused 
so  much  by  external  influence  as  by  his  inordinate  desire  to 
be  a pucca  sahib,  and  this  was  one  of  the  main  causes  of  his 
failure  in  life.  The  encomium  that  he  received  for  his 
college-day  English  writings  went  to  his  head.  He  lived  in 
a dream-world  of  glory  he  expected  to  attain  some  day  as  an 
English  poet  recognized  in  England.  In  his  poems  he  was 
constantly  sighing, 

To  cross  the  vast  Atlantic  wave 

For  glory,  or  a nameless  grave. 

In  the  sonnet  on  his  college  friends  Dutt  meant  himself 
when  he  said: 


MICHAEL  MADHUSUDAN  DUTT  AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS  2 1 3 


Perchance,  unmark’d  some  here  are  budding  now. 
Whose  temples  shall  with  laureate-wreaths  be  crown’d, 
Twined  by  the  Sisters  Nine:  whose  angel-tongues 
Shall  charm  the  world  with  their  enchanting  songs. 
And  time  shall  waft  the  echo  of  each  sound 
To  distant  ages 

In  October  1842  the  young  votary  of  Poetry  sent  for 
publication  some  of  his  verses  to  the  editor  of  Blackwood’s 
Magazine  with  the  following  dedication:  ‘These  poems  are 
most  respectfully  dedicated  to  William  Wordsworth  Esqr  ; 
the  poet,  by  a foreign  admirer  of  his  genius — the  author.’ 
But  nothing  is  known  about  the  fate  of  these  poems.  In 
February  1843  Dutt  left  college  and  home  to  adopt 
Christianity  in  the  teeth  of  the  stiffest  opposition  from  his 
family,  friends  and  community.  The  father  could  not 
altogether  forsake  his  only  child,  and  he  continued  to  pay 
for  his  son’s  studies  at  Bishop’s  College  which  Dutt  joined 
as  a Christian  student  in  the  secular  department.  Here  he 
remained  till  early  1848  and  read  besides  English,  Latin, 
Greek,  Hebrew,  Persian  and  Sanskrit.  While  a student  in 
Bishop’s  College  Dutt  translated  some  Persian  poems  into 
English  verse.  When  his  father  stopped  his  allowance  Dutt 
left  the  college,  and  in  the  company  of  some  South  Indian 
fellow-students  went  to  Madras  to  seek  his  fortune.  The 
Christian  community  in  Madras  helped  him  in  securing  the 
post  of  an  English  teacher  at  the  school  attached  to  the 
Madras  Male  Orphan  Asylum.  Before  the  year  was  over 
Dutt  married  an  Anglo-Indian  girl  of  English  extraction,  the 
daughter  of  a Nilgiri  tea  planter,  and  settled  down  to  write 
English  verse  in  real  earnest.  Some  of  these  poems  were 
published  in  Madras  Circular , Spectator  and  Atheneum 
under  the  pen-name  of  ‘Timothy  Penpoem’.  For  some  time 
he  was  on  the  editorial  staff  of  Atheneum  and  of  Spectator 
and  for  a few  weeks  edited  Hindu  Chronicle.  In  1852  we 
find  Dutt  as  the  Second  Tutor  in  the  High  School  department 


214 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


of  ‘the  Madras  University’ — the  central  educational  institu- 
tion in  Madras.  This  post  he  held  till  his  return  to  Calcutta 
in  1856. 

In  December  1848  Dutt  published  his  best  and  biggest 
poem  in  English  The  Captive  Ladie , to  which  was  appended 
Visions  of  the  Past , a fragment  in  blank  verse.  The  theme 
of  The  Captive  Ladie  is  the  suicidal  rivalry  between  the 
king  of  Kanauj  and  the  king  of  Delhi,  which  made  it  easy 
for  Muhammad  Ghori  to  occupy  Delhi  in  the  late  twelfth 
century.  The  poem  cannot  be  called  an  historical  poem  as 
there  is  little  of  history.  But  it  was  the  first  poem  by  an 
Indian  writer  dealing,  though  indirectly,  with  the  Muslim 
conquest  of  India.  The  heroine  was  modelled  after  Sita 
in'  exile. 

The  lukewarm  reception  of  The  Captive  Ladie  in 
Calcutta  damped  Dutt’s  enthusiasm  and  he  had  not  the  heart 
to  complete  the  poems  he  had  begun  to  write  after  its 
publication.  That  his  thoughts  were  already  turning  to 
Bengali  poetry  we  know  from  his  letter  written  on  August  18, 
1849  to  his  close  friend  from  school  days,  Gaurdas  Bysack: 
‘Perhaps  you  do  not  know  that  I devote  several  hours  daily 
to  Tamil.  My  life  is  more  busy  than  that  of  a school  boy. 
Here  is  my  routine:  6 — 8 Hebrew,  8 — 12  School,  12 — 2 
Greek,  2 — 5 Telegu,  and  Sanskrit,  5 — 7 Latin,  7 — 10  English. 
Am  I not  preparing  for  the  great  object  of  embellishing  the 
tongue  of  my  fathers?’ 

Dutt’s  father  died  in  1855,  three  years  after  the  death 
of  his  mother,  and  he  had  soon  to  return  to  Calcutta  to  take 
possession  of  the  goodly  property  left  by  his  father.  In  the 
same  year  he  divorced  his  first  wife  and  married  Henrietta, 
the  daughter  of  a teacher  of  French  extraction.  The  second 
marriage  was  completely  successful. 

Dutt  returned  to  Calcutta  on  2nd  February  1856.  His 
friends  helped  him  to  secure  the  job  of  the  Police  Court  Head 
Clerk  from  which  he  was  soon  promoted  to  the  office  of  the 
Police  Court  Interpreter.  From  now  on  to  the  middle  of 


MICHAEL  MADHUSUDAN  DUTT  AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS  215 


1862,  when  he  left  for  England,  was  the  happiest,  best  and 
most  fruitful  period  of  Dutt’s  life.  He  was  earning  a com- 
fortable salary ; he  was  living  in  a commodious  house 
(6  Lower  Chitpur  Road)1  which  was  just  opposite  to  his 
office,  and  he  was  working  like  a Titan,  writing  plays  and 
poems  that  revolutionized  Bengali  literature.  He  was  also 
preparing  himself  for  the  Bar. 

Recovery  of  his  paternal  property  from  adverse  possession 
was  not  easy.  It  involved  litigation,  expenditure  and  vexation. 
But  Vidyasagar  came  to  his  help  and  made  arrangements  for 
the  sale  of  the  property  at  a fair  price  to  be  paid  in  instal- 
ments. With  the  assurance  of  adequate  financial  resourses 
the  poet  left  for  England  on  board  the  steamship  Candia  on 
June  9,  1862.  His  wife  and  children  remained  in  Calcutta. 
Dutt  joined  Gray’s  Inn,  but  his  extravagance,  made  worse  by 
irregular  remittance  from  home,  seriously  interfered  with  his 
law  studies,  and  he  had  to  move  to  Paris  by  the  middle  of 
the  next  year.  Before  that  his  wife  and  children  had  come 
over  from  India.  Life  in  Paris  was  a nightmare  and  Dutt 
with  his  family  came  to  Versailles  where  he  would  have 
surely  gone  under,  had  Vidyasagar’s  generosity  not  come  to 
his  rescue. 

How  much  Dutt  suffered  for  want  of  money  in  Europe 
can  be  inferred  from  the  postscript  to  a letter  he  wrote  to 
Vidyasagar  from  London  on  June  18,  1866:  ‘I  tell  my  wife 
that  when  I get  back  to  Calcutta  you  will  give  me  a little 
room  in  your  house  and  a lot  of  rice  to  keep  body  and  soul 
together.’  He  returned  to  London  by  the  end  of  1865  and 
completed  his  terms.  He  was  called  to  the  Bar  in  November 
1866  and  returned  to  Calcutta  in  February  and  joined  the 
High  Court  Bar. 

For  the  making  of  the  poet’s  mind  his  five  years’  stav 
in  Europe  had  not  been  entirely  wasted,  though  he  had 
little  opportunity  and  less  inclination  to  profit  bv  it.  His 

1 All  his  Bengali  works  except  one  were  written  when  Dutt  was  occupy- 
ing this  house.  Birangana  was  written  at  Kidderpore. 


216 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


knowledge  of  French  was  refreshed  and  he  added  Italian 
and  German  to  his  stock.  On  January  9,  1865,  he  wrote  to 
Vidyasagar  from  Versailles:  ‘I  am  making  the  very  best  use 
of  my  unfortunate  exile  and  I think  I may,  without  vanity, 
say  that  I know  more  languages  than  any  Bengali  now  living.’ 
In  Versailles,  Dutt  wrote  sonnets  in  Bengali  which  practically 
closed  his  literary  career. 

From  1866  till  his  death  on  June  29,  1873,  Dutt’s  life  is 
a progression  in  frustration,  decline  and  decay.  The  only 
works  he  produced  in  this  time  were  a few  children’s  verses, 
a romantic  tragedy  and  a prose  adaptation  of  the  Iliad , 
entitled  Hektarvadh. 

Dutt’s  first  appearance  as  a writer  of  Bengali  happened 
with  the  drama  as  we  have  discussed.  This  was,  however, 
not  an  accident  as  is  generally  supposed.  In  Madras,  Dutt 
had  tried  his  hand  at  drama  by  writing  a dramatic  poem  in 
English,  Rizzia,  which  however  was  never  published.  That 
he  was  preparing  his  pen  for  Bengali  poetry  as  early  as  1849 
is  known  from  a letter  we  have  previously  cited.  Some 
months  before  he  started  writing  in  Bengali  he  was  renewing 
his  acquaintance  of  Kalidasa,  his  favourite  Indian  poet,  with 
the  help  of  a pundit.  The  influence  of  the  old  master  is  very 
palpable  in  his  early  writings.  In  Sarmistha  there  are  some 
brief  paraphrases  from  Kalidasa,  besides  other  evidences  of 
indebtedness.  The  title  of  his  first  Bengali  heroic  poem 
T ilottamdsambhav  is  after  Kalidasa’s  Kumarasambhava.  In 
a letter  to  a friend  the  poet  confessed  that  ‘the  erotic  character 
of  some  of  the  allusions’  perhaps  owed  to  ‘a  partiality  for 
Kalidasa.’ 

Dutt’s  writing  of  Bengali  poetry  began  by  experimenting 
in  ridding  the  Payar  of  the  rhyme  as  well  as  of  the  verse-end 
pause.  In  the  Payar  with  its  verse-line  of  fourteen  syllables 
divided  into  four  feet  of  four,  four,  four  and  two  syllables 
(there  being  caesura  at  the  end  of  the  second  foot) — rhythm 
and  sense  end  perforce  with  verse  line,  and  the  two  verse 
lines  must  rhyme  and  form  a couplet.  This  was  a cramp  on 


MICHAEL  MADHUSUDAN  DUTT  AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS  217 


freedom  of  expression  and  on  natural  flow  of  words.  Dutt 
did  away  with  rhyme  (thereby  splitting  the  cohesion  of 
the  verse  lines)  and  placed  the  final  pause  anywhere,  in 
the  first,  second,  third  or  the  final  syllable.  This  was  the 
‘emancipation’  of  the  Bengali  verse  that  was  achieved  by 
Dutt.  He  gave  it  the  name  ‘Amitraksar  chanda’  (the  un- 
rhyming metre).  He  used  it  hesitatingly,  for  the  first  time, 
in  a few  occasional  lines  in  his  second  play  Padmavati.  His 
first  Bengali  poem  Tifottamasambhav  (1860)  as  well  as  the 
mature  poems,  Meghanddvadh,  Birangana  and  the  Sonnets 
are  written  entirely  in  this  free  Payar. 

The  first  poem,  called  an  ‘epicling’  by  the  author,  is 
in  four  cantos,  the  first  two  of  which  first  appeared  in 
Vividharthasangraha  of  Rajendralal  Mitra,  a college  friend 
of  the  poet  and  one  of  the  first  and  foremost  champions  of 
Dutt’s  poetry.  The  story,  taken  from  Hindu  mythology,  is 
meagre.  Two  demon  brothers  Sunda  and  Upasanda  waxed 
so  powerful  that  the  supremacy  of  the  gods  was  threatened. 
As  a possible  remedy  the  Creator  collected  together  the 
essences  of  all  beautiful  things  in  Creation  and  fashioned  out 
of  them  the  girl  Tilottama,  the  most  enchanting  woman  that 
was  ever  seen.  She  was  sent  to  the  brothers  and  they  both 
fell  in  love  with  her  and  each  wanted  to  possess  her  for 
himself.  A quarrel  followed  which  resulted  in  a mortal  duel. 
When  both  were  dead  Tilottama  turned  into  a star  and 
retired  to  the  solar  region. 

The  poet  introduced  into  the  story  some  new  characters, 
all  minor  gods.  Some  of  them  are  folk-deities  of  Bengal  and 
the  others  are  Greek  goddesses  somewhat  thinly  disguised. 
The  goddesses  of  Devotion  ( Bhakti ) and  Worship  ( Aradhana ) 
are  the  poet’s  creations.  The  Creator  ( Brahma ) sometimes 
reflects  the  personality  of  Zeus.  The  influence  of  Homer  is 
always  there  but  the  Indian  note  is  predominant.  Hellenisms 
in  expression  are  not  numerous ; a notable  instance  is  the 
epithet  ‘white-armed’  ( svetabhuja ) applied  to  the  goddess 
of  Poesy.  It  is  a translation  of  Homeric  leukolenos  applied 


218 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


to  Here,  Hellene  and  Andromakhe,  the  three  heroines  of 
the  Iliad. 

Dutt  attempted  an  English  translation  of  his  Tilottama 
but  it  never  progressed  beyond  the  first  few  lines. 

In  the  next  poem  (also  mentioned  by  the  author  in  a 
letter  to  a friend  as  an  ‘epicling’)  the  tragic  story  of  Ravana 
and  his  heroic  son  Indrajit  (Vanquisher  of  Indra)  also  called 
Meghanad  (Thunder-Voiced),  was  taken  up.  Dutt  had  a 
predilection  for  strong,  mighty  and  wilfully  violent  figures 
of  Indian  mythology,  for  they  approximated  to  his  own 
character.  This  is  why  the  heroine  of  his  first  play  was  an 
Asura  girl  and  the  heroes  of  his  ‘epiclings’  were  Asuras  and 
Raksasas  respectively.  The  story  of  Rama  he  knew  mainly 
from  the. old  Bengali  poet  Krttivas  whom  he  had  read  avidly 
in  his  early  boyhood  days.  The  good-natured  hero  of  the  old 
Bengali  poet  never  impressed  him  ; his  preferences  were  for 
the  dashing  Raksasas.  So  when  Dutt  selected  the  seige  and 
fall  of  Lanka  as  the  theme  of  his  second  ‘heroic’  poem 
(possibly  for  the  reason  of  its  resemblance  to  the  fall  of  Troy) 
he  naturally  chose  Ravan  and  Meghanad  as  his  heroes.  (He 
preferred  the  unusual  ‘Meghanad’  to  the  proper  and  usual 
‘Indrajit’  as  it  was  more  sonorous  with  its  two  long  vowels.) 
Dutt  felt  a kind  of  vague  affinity  between  the  indomitable 
spirit  of  the  king  of  Lanka  and  the  restless,  reckless  and 
ambitious  urges  of  his  own  heart ; like  his  Raksasa  hero  he 
also  was  a proud  though  outwardly  quiet  and  lonely  man. 
He  wrote  to  a friend  that  the  idea  of  Ravan  elevated  and 
kindled  his  imagination.  Born  and  brought  up  in  the 
tradition  of  a middle  class  Hindu  home  Dutt  was  not 
expected  to  have  irreverence  for  Rama.  Nor  had  he  really, 
in  spite  of  renunciation  of  his  ancestral  faith.  Rama’s 
victory  over  the  Raksasas  was  however  not  to  his  liking, 
since  Rama  commanded  an  army  of  monkeys  and  he  was 
led  to  victory  by  the  treachery  of  Ravan’s  brother.  So  he 
wrote  to  a friend  when  he  was  occupied  in  writing  the 
second  part  of  the  poem:  ‘He  [i.e.  Ravan]  was  a noble 


MICHAEL  MADHUSUDAN  DUTT  AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS  219 


fellow,  and  but  for  that  scoundrel  Bivishan,  would  have 
licked  the  monkey  army  into  the  sea.’ 

Meghanadvadh  (Fall  of  Meghanad)  came  out  of  the  press 
in  1861  in  two  parts  published  a few  months  apart.  The 
poem  is  divided  into  nine  cantos,  following  the  dictum  of 
the  Sanskrit  rhetoricians  that  an  ‘epic’  ( mahdkdvya ) must 
contain  more  than  eight  cantos.  The  poet  had  contemplated 
writing  a heroic  poem  and  had  begun  on  a high  note  in  a 
grand  overture,  but  the  note  could  not  be  kept  up  for  long 
and  the  grandeur  could  not  be  maintained  throughout.  The 
genius  of  the  poet  was  rebellious  rather  than  strenuous,  and 
the  lyrical  tendency  could  not  be  continually  suppressed.  As 
a result  lapses  to  lyricism  became  more  and  more  frequent 
as  the  story  progressed.  The  poem  was  written  not  conti- 
nuously but  by  fits  of  enthusiasm  and  inspiration,  so  that  the 
quality  is  not  uniform  and  a proper  balance  between  the 
episodes  and  incidents  is  not  always  maintained. 

In  spite  of  these  defects  Meghnadvadh  is  the  most 
significant  work  of  Dutt.  The  free  Payar  is  now  smoothly 
flowing ; the  pattern  of  the  vocables  is  clear  cut,  and 
characterization  individualistic.  The  European  technique — 
that  is  of  Homer,  Virgil,  Dante,  Tasso  and  Milton — pre- 
dominated, and  Hellenism  in  characterization  and  expression 
is  neither  inconspicuous  nor  frequent.  At  the  same  time  the 
technicalities  of  the  Indian  rhetoricians  were  not  avoided, 
and  on  the  whole  the  Indian  atmosphere  has  not  been 
violently  interfered  with.  The  poet  has  succeeded  in  mould- 
ing the  heroes  of  the  most  popular  epic  tale  of  India 
according  to  the  spirit  of  his  age.  The  tragedy  of  Ravan  and 
Meghanad  breathes  the  spirit  of  the  poet  as  much  as  that  of 
the  nation  that  was  just  waking  up  to  a sense  of  lost  liberty 
and  vanished  glory. 

The  next  poem  in  the  free  Payar  verse,  Blrangand 
(Valiant  Ladies,  1862)  is  entirely  lyrical  in  spite  of  its  title. 
The  diction  is  smooth,  and  the  versification  mellifluous.  It 
comprises  twenty-one  epistles  by  as  many  notable  ladies  from 


220 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


mythology  and  epic  lore,  written  to  their  husbands  or  lovers. 
Dutt  followed  here  Ovid’s  Heroidae.  Like  the  Latin  poet 
Dutt  also  let  his  lyric  exuberance  and  tenderness  full  play 
only  when  he  wrote  in  the  person  of  a woman.  These 
epistles  amply  testify  to  this  proclivity  common  between  the 
two  poets  so  distantly  separated  in  time  and  space. 

The  second  epistle  is  from  Tara  (Star),  the  wife  of 
Brhaspati  the  guru  of  the  gods,  addressed  to  Soma  (Moon) 
who  was  for  some  time  living  as  a student  with  Brhaspati. 
Tara  fell  in  love  with  the  good-looking  young  scholar,  and 
when  the  latter  had  completed  his  studies  and  was  leaving 
for  home  Tara  sent  him  this  letter  professing  her  shameful 
infatuation.  Recalling  the  occasions  that  brought  them 
together  and  mentioning  her  covert  attempts  to  make  Soma’s 
days  more  comfortable  in  the  frugal  and  austere  household  of 
his  guru,  Tara  pleads  passionately: 

Pardon  me,  my  friend.  A tame  bird,  let  out  of  the 
cage,  craves  for  a passage  into  its  cage  once  again.  Do 
you  come  back  and  come  quick.  I’ll  make  for  the 
pleasure  grove,  if  you,  O bird  of  paradise,  take  me  in  tow. 
Come  and  extend  the  protection  of  your  love  ; a wanderer 
in  love  I am.  I’ll  go  where  you  go  ; I’ll  do  what  you  do  ; 
I’ll  throw  my  heart  and  soul  at  your  feet. 

Dutt’s  ‘heroic’  poetry  started  as  a tour  de  force.  It  is 
therefore  no  wonder  that  he  felt  a strong  lyric  impulse  even 
when  he  was  writing  his  first  ‘epicling’  Tilottamasambhav. 
The  time-honoured  and  worn-out  theme  of  Vaishnav  poetry, 
the  amours  of  Radha  and  Krsna,  caught  his  fancy  not  only 
because  he  belonged  to  a Vaishnav  family  and  knew  Vaishnav 
poetry  very  well  but  also  because  he  was  familiar  with 
the  Vaishnav  songs  of  his  countryman2  and  name-sake 
Madhusudan  Kan.  Kan’s  songs  were  based  on  Vaishnav 
lyrics  and  were  sung  in  tunes  taken  from  folk  music  and  as 

2 Dutt  and  Kan  both  belonged  to  the  district  of  Jessore  in  lower  central 
Bengal.  Kan  was  some  years  older  than  Dutt. 


MICHAEL  MADHUSUDAN  DUTT  AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS  221 

such  became  very  popular.  Like  Kan  and  the  older  Vaishnav 
poets,  Dutt  put  his  signature  in  the  last  couplet  in  the  Odes 
on  Radha.  But  Kan  subscribed  himself  as  ‘Sudan’  in  his 
songs  while  Dutt  signed  himself  Madhu.  These  short  lyrical 
poems  by  Dutt,  written  in  1859,  were  in  the  press  for  a 
long  time  and  were  finally  published  in  1861,  between  the 
two  volumes  of  Meghanadvadh,  under  the  title  Brajarigana 
(Cowherd  Damsel).  The  reason  for  delay  in  publication  was 
the  insistence  of  some  of  his  friends  to  drop  it. 

The  odes  number  eighteen,  and  they  describe  the  long- 
ing of  Radha  for  Krsna  in  her  various  moods  affected  by  the 
various  seasons  and  aspects  of  nature.  The  poet  had 
intended  to  write  a second  volume  of  odes  echoing  the 
triumph  of  Radha’s  love.  But  it  never  materialized  although 
Brajarigana  was  very  well  received. 

The  odes  of  Brajangand  demonstrate  Dutt’s  skill  as  a 
versifier.  There  is  a variety  of  rhymed  metres,  of  which  some 
are  tried  here  for  the  first  time.  The  structure  of  the  stanza 
containing  verse  lines  of  irregular  foot  is  also  an  important 
novelty.  The  diction  is  simple  and  musical.  In  versification 
there  are  faint  echoes  of  the  lyric  songs  of  Bharatcandra,  and 
the  implied  role  of  Radha’s  friend  and  confidante  (to  whom 
Radha  pours  her  feelings)  indicates  Dutt’s  indebtedness  to 
Kan  and  in  lesser  degree  to  Jayadeva.  We  may  miss  in 
Dutt’s  odes  the  ring  of  devotion  of  early  Vaishnav  poetry, 
but  they  do  not  appear  as  artificial  and  mechanical  as  many 
of  the  Klrttan  songs  produced  en  masse  in  the  seventeenth 
and  eighteenth  centuries  do.  Dutt  had  no  special  love  for 
Vaishnavism  nor  had  he  any  proneness  for  trite  sentimen- 
tality. But  as  a poet  he  could  not  remain  unaffected  by  the 
poetic  beauty  of  the  most  significant  of  the  traditional  themes 
of  Bengali  lyric  poetry.  Rajnarayan  Bose,  his  valued  personal 
friend  and  a discerning  critic  of  his  poetry,  suffering  under 
exaggerated  moral  prejudice,  condemned  the  odes  for  the 
‘immoralness’  of  the  subject  matter,  the  illicit  love  of  Radha 
and  Krsna.  Dutt  made  this  vigorous  reply:  ‘When  you  sit 


222 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


down  to  read  poetry,  leave  aside  all  religious  bias.  Besides, 
Mrs.  Radha  is  not  such  a bad  woman  after  all.  If  she  had  a 
“Bard”  like  your  humble  servant  from  the  beginning  she 
would  have  been  a very  different  character.’ 

The  original  of  the  following  excerpt  (two  initial  stanzas) 
from  one  of  the  odes  is  written  in  a kind  of  terza  rima. 

Why  did  you  pluck  so  many  blossoms,  my  dear,  filling 
up  the  basket?  Does  the  night  shrouded  in  clouds  wear 
the  diadem  of  stars?  Why  should  I,  a cowherd  girl,  caress 
any  more  the  tender  flowers?  No  more  would  I,  a cow- 
herd damsel,  wear  a garland  of  flowers.  Why  did  you 
pluck  out  the  charm  of  the  creeper,  the  pride  of  the 
woodland?  The  bee  is  her  friend  ; but  there  is  none 
for  Radha,  a luckless  girl. 

Brajahgana  won  instantaneous  popularity,  and  the  lovers 
of  orthodox  poetry  who  did  not  approve  of  the  free  metre  and 
the  ‘heroic’  poetry  of  Dutt  could  not  resist  the  appeal  of 
these  odes.  Dutt’s  triumph  was  now  complete. 

His  last  book  of  poems  is  a collection  of  102  sonnets 
written  at  Versailles  in  France  in  1865,  and  published  in  the 
next  year  under  the  title  Caturdaspadl  Kavitavali  (Fourteen- 
verse-lined  Poems).  The  poet  had  first  tried  his  hand 
at  the  sonnet  when  he  was  writing  the  third  canto  of 
Meghanadvadh.3  Although  the  experiment  was  not  repeated 
till  five  years  later,  he  was  not  insensible  to  the  potentiality 
of  this  new  form  of  lyric  poetry,  as  his  comment  to 
Rajnarayan  Bose  indicates:  ‘In  my  humble  opinion,  if  culti- 
vated by  men  of  genius,  our  sonnet  in  time  would  rival  the 
Italian.’ 

As  a work  of  art  the  sonnet  is  the  best  composition  that 
Dutt  produced.  The  adaptation  of  this  new  form  of  lyric 
poetry  was  entirely  successful,  and  the  poet’s  economy  of 
diction  was  admirably  suited  to  the  compact  structure  of  the 

3 The  poem,  an  earlier  version  of  Sonnet  3 (on  the  Bengali  language), 
was  communicated  in  a letter  to  Rajnarayan  Bose. 


MICHAEL  MADHUSUDAN  DUTT  AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS  223 

sonnet.  The  lyrical  tendency  obtained  here  a fuller  scope, 
and  the  poet’s  self  a freer  expression.  The  subject  matter 
of  some  of  the  poems  reveals  the  nostalgic,  reminiscent  mood 
of  the  poet  who  was  passing  through  the  dark  days  of  hopeless 
distress  in  a distant,  foreign  land.  In  others  Butt  has  paid 
his  compliments  to  some  of  his  favourite  poets,  past  and 
present,  native  and  foreign,4  and  to  some  of  his  friends.  Not 
a few  are  on  characters  and  incidents  from  mythology  and 
literature,  Sanskrit  and  Bengali.  The  following  may  be 
taken  as  a typical  sonnet  from  Butt’s  pen. 

Have  I signed  my  name  in  vain  on  the  sands  of  thy 
shore,  O time?  Are  the  towering  foam-crested  waves 
trying  again  and  again  to  wipe  out  this  inscription  of 
mine  hastily  and  in  contempt?  Or  is  it  that  I’ve 
engraved  it  in  an  auspicious  moment  on  the  peak  of  the 
mountain  of  glory,  inscribing  the  syllables  with  the  tool 
of  excellence  which  Oblivion  cannot  wash  away  by 
sweeping  floods,  or  screen  it  under  a coat  of  dirt?  In 
a river  bed  dried  of  water  men  wait  for  the  seasonal 
spate  ; in  a house  of  worship  where  there  is  no  idol  to 
worship  God  dwells  unseen  ; even  ashes  blaze  when  they 
are  thrown  into  a pit  of  fire.  In  like  manner  when  the 
mortal  frame  succumbs  to  the  onslaught  of  time,  life 
still  persists  on  the  earth,  in  the  resthouse  of  memory 
as  it  were,  in  hell  if  infamous,  in  heaven  if  meritorious. 

Michael  Madhusudan  Butt,  as  he  said  about  himself 
in  a letter  to  Bose,  was  indeed  a tremendous  literary  rebel 
and  what  he  brought  about  was  a literary  revolution.  The 
predominant  spirit  of  his  age  was  revolt  against  age-old 
conventionality  and  cramping  orthodoxy.  This  spirit  of 
revolt  took  the  form  of  a tremendous  creative  urge  in  Butt, 
and  in  conscious  response  to  it  he  stood  up  to  fight  single- 
handed  the  inane  repetition  and  degenerate  verbosity  that 

4 Petrarch  (dedication),  Kaffram,  Krttivas,  Jayadeva,  Kalidasa, 
ISvarcandra  Gupta,  Dante,  Tennyson,  Hugo  and  ValmTki. 


224 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


then  passed  for  poetry.  His  attempts  at  the  free  metre  were 
actuated  as  much  by  genius  as  by  his  very  conscious  reaction 
against  Bharatcandra  whom  he  admired  as  ‘a  man  of  elegant 
genius’  but  condemned  as  ‘the  father  of  a very  vile  school 
of  poetry’.  The  free  verse  made  a pathway  for  the  new 
poetry  and  imagination.  The  personality  of  the  first  writer 
of  the  new  poetry  was  forceful,  dynamic  and  reckless  ; and 
the  mighty  and  the  reckless  had  appeal  for  him.  This  is 
why  the  heroes  of  his  ‘heroic’  poems  were  so  chosen  or 
moulded  ; this  is  why  his  Rama  is  often  a bundle  of  nerves 
before  the  forceful  and  dominant  figure  of  Ravan. 

The  poetry  of  Dutt  necessarily  evolved  its  own  diction 
and  devised  its  own  pattern  of  vocables.  Paratexis  and 
anacoluthon  are  the  main  devices  needed  for  the  irregular 
pause  in  the  free  metre.  Lexical  words  had  to  be  largely 
requisitioned  for  the  grandeur  of  style  in  the  ‘heroic’  poems. 
Coining  of  denominative  verbs  added  to  the  vigour  and 
expressiveness  of  diction,  but  it  was  carried  to  the  extreme 
in  his  only  prose  work  Hektarvadh  (Fall  of  Hector,  1871) 
which  was  intended  for  but  was  never  accepted  as  a school  or 
college  textbook.  Dutt  was  never  squeamish  in  borrowing 
words  and  imageries  from  the  old  poets  of  Bengal,  nor  was 
he  hesitant  in  tapping  the  European  masters  of  poetry.  He 
was  bold  enough  to  use  dialectal  words  and  forms  if  he 
thought  they  suited  his  poetry.  In  spite  of  his  knowledge 
of  many  languages,  or  rather  because  of  it  Dutt  was  a 
thorough  master  of  his  own  speech.  His  imagination  was 
steeped  in  the  mythology  of  the  two  Indian  epics,  and  this 
found  frequent  expression  in  classical  allusions  not  only  in 
his  poetry  but  in  his  letters  as  well  as  in  ordinary  parlance. 
It  was  not  an  affectation,  as  many  of  his  critics  have  alleged. 

Hemchandra  Banerji  (1838-1903)  was  a graduate  in  Arts 
and  in  Law.  His  first  longer  poem  Cintdtarangini  (Stream 
of  Thought,  1861)  was  occasioned  by  the  suicide  of  a 


MICHAEL  MADHUSUDAN  DUTT  AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS  225 


personal  friend.  It  was  written  in  the  pattern  of  Isvarcandra 
Gupta  and  Rangalal  Banerji,  and  having  been  prescribed  as 
a text  for  University  examinations  made  him  widely  known 
as  a rising  poet.  The  influence  of  the  poems  of  Rangalal 
Banerji,  his  neighbour  at  Kidderpore,  was  much  more  pre- 
dominant in  his  next  poem  Blrbahu  (The  Strong-armed 
Hero,  1864).  The  story  is  imaginary,  and  the  author  had 
intended  to  project  the  valiant  spirit  of  the  patriotic  Hindus 
into  the  very  remote  past.  After  this  Banerji  produced  some 
short  poems  a few  of  which  are  translations  or  adaptations 
from  English.  He  adapted  two  plays  of  Shakespeare  for 
the  stage.  Tempest  (1868)  and  Romeo  and  Juliet  (1895). 
Among  his  short  poems  is  to  be  found  one  of  the  most 
popular  and  effective  he  ever  wrote.  Bharatsangit  (Song  of 
India)  as  soon  as  published  (1870)  became  the  national  hymn 
of  the  educated  young  Bengal  that  was  no\v  fully  awake  to 
the  inglorious  position  of  India  as  a subject  nation  and  was 
in  a mood  of  self-criticism.  The  impassioned  effusion  of  the 
poem  made  its  influence  felt  in  the  literary  activity  of  the 
country  for  the  next  three  decades.  It  also  played  an 
important  part  in  channeling  the  inarticulate  anti-British 
feeling  of  the  people.  Although  the  British  are  not 
mentioned  the  implication  was  there  all  too  clear,  and  so 
the  poem  had  to  be  expunged  from  the  second  edition 
(1871)  of  his  book  of  poems  ( Kavitavali , 1870)  as  he  was 
then  the  senior  Government  pleader  at  the  Calcutta 
High  Court. 

Banerji  wrote  a critical  and  appreciative  preface  to  the 
second  and  annotated  edition  (1863)  of  Meghanadvadh , which 
the  poet  hailed  as  coming  from  the  pen  of  ‘a  real  b.a.’.  But 
Dutt’s  poetry  did  not  make  much  impression  on  Banerji. 
Even  in  his  biggest  and  best  known  poem  Brtrasamhdr  (The 
Killing  of  Brtra),  a full-fledged  ‘epic’  poem  in  twenty-five 
cantos  (published  in  two  parts  ; 1875,  1877)  the  influence  of 
Dutt  is  superficial.  Banerji  was  an  inveterate  rhymer,  and 
was  a true  successor,  of  Gupta.  Though  he  was  one  of  the 

15 


226 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


few  contemporary  writers  of  verse  who  could  properly  scan 
Dutt’s  free  metre,  he  was  himself  incapable  of  handling  it. 
The  portions  of  his  ‘epic’  poem  which  look  like  being 
written  in  free  metre  are  really  in  unrhyming  Payar  couplets 
and  quadruplets.  Banerji  lacked  the  linguistic  equipment 
of  Butt,  as  also  his  fire  and  his  genius.  The  canvas  of 
Brtrasamhar  is  big  enough  and  the  theme  ambitious — the 
mythological  story  of  DadhTci  sacrificing  himself  for  the  cause 
of  the  victory  of  the  gods  over  the  demon  host  of  Brtra  who 
had  occupied  the  kingdom  of  the  gods  and  made  them  his 
slaves.  But  the  execution  is  poor  and  the  narration  often 
tedious.  However,  the  poem  did  enjoy  popularity,  much 
more  than  did  Meghanaclvadh  of  Butt.  The  reason  is  not 
far  to  seek.  While  Butt’s  poetry  was  learned  and  his  metre 
rugged  and  unfamiliar,  Banerji’s  poem  was  not  difficult  ; 
his  metre  was  smooth  and  familiar  and  there  was  an 
unmistakable  undercurrent  of  patriotic  sentiment.  But  with 
the  passing  of  the  century  the  ‘epic’  of  Hem  Chandra  Banerji 
has  gone  out  of  vogue  and  is  read  only  as  a college  text  which 
was  indeed  one  of  the  main  purposes  of  writing  serious  poetry 
in  those  days. 

Banerji  wrote  three  more  big  poems,  one  of  which 
(Chayamayi,  1880)  partly  follows  Bante’s  La  Comedia. 
There  is  some  metrical  skill  but  hardly  any  poetry.  The 
humorous  and  satirical  poems  written  in  colloquial  style  and 
in  the  tripping  metre  of  the  nursery  rhyme  and  folk  poetry 
and  devoted  to  matters  of  topical  interest  show  the  real 
talent  of  Banerji.  Herein  his  indebtedness  to  Isvarcandra 
Gupta  is  all  the  more  apparent. 

Navin  Chandra  Sen  (1846-1909)  was  the  third  notable 
writer  of  ‘epic’  poetry.  He  was  a graduate  in  Arts  hailing 
from  Chittagong  and  had  joined  Government  service.  There 
was  a time  when  Navin  Chandra  Sen  was  considered  a master 
poet  and  the  successor  of  Hem  Chandra  Banerji.  But  the 
judgement  of  the  immediate  posterity  makes  Sen  only  a minor 
poet,  although  his  literary  output  is  heavier  than  the 


MICHAEL  MADHUSUDAN  DUTT  AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS  227 


collected  works  of  his  predecessors  Dutt  and  Banerji  put 
together.  Sen’s  earliest  book  of  verse  was  published  in 
1871.  But  it  was  his  Byronic  poem  on  the  Battle  of  Plassey 
(. Palasir  Juddha,  1875)  in  five  cantos  of  Spenserian  stanzas 
that  established  his  reputation.  The  next  poem  was  a 
romantic  narrative  after  Scott  ( Rahgamati , 1880).  His 

most  notable  work,  a trilogy  on  the  Krishna  story  as  in  the 
MahabhcLrata,  was  published  in  three  independent  volumes: 
Raivatak  (1886),  Kuruksetra  (1893)  and  Prabhas  (1896).  In 
these  three  books  of  romantic  poetry  garnished  with  moral 
and  theological  digressions,  Krishna  the  guiding  spirit  of 
Pandavas  is  made  a champion  of  the  union  between  the 
fighting  spirits  of  Aryandom  and  Non-Aryandom.  In  this 
conception  (or  rather  interpretation  of  the  Mahabharata ) 
Sen  was  much  influenced  by  the  interpretation  of  Krishnaism 
given  by  Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji. 

The  main  defects  of  the  trilogy  as  a poem  are  obvious. 
The  author  lacked  that  imagination  on  the  grand  scale  which 
,the  theme  demanded  and  he  also  lacked  fire.  Linguistic 
equipment  was  not  adequate.  Flashes  of  romantic  fancy 
are  rather  rare  and  characterization  is  seldom  real.  The 
historical  atmosphere  is  often  marred  by  frivolity  and 
sentimental  effusion.  On  the  whole  the  trilogy  suffers 
from  a failure  of  imagination.  The  later  works  of  Sen 
comprising  prose  and  poetry  need  not  detain  us.  But 
mention  may  be  made  of  Bhanumatl  (1900),  a romance 
written  in  prose  and  poetry  (in  a kind  of  the  Sanskrit  Campu 
style). 

The  romantic  strain,  bereft  of  the  patriotic  bias  and 
tinged  with  personal  colouring,  appeared  strong  in  Joges 
(1881)  by  Ishan  Chandra  Banerji  (1856-1897),  the  youngest 
brother  of  Hem  Chandra  Banerji.  His  other  works  are  three 
books  of  short  poems  (1878,  1880,  1887)  in  some  of  which 
the  influence  of  the  elder  Banerji  and  of  Sen  is  clear.  Joges 
is  a tragic  tale  of  unrequited  love,  and  the  hero  is  partially 
a self-portrait  of  the  author.  The  poem  does  not  show  much 


228 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


excellence  of  art  but  it  breathes  sincerity,  which  can  be 
said  for  so  few  of  such  works. 

Among  the  metrical  romances  Udasim  (The  Girl 
Recluse,  1874)  by  Akshaychandra  Chaudhuri  (1850-1898)  is 
worth  mention.  The  story  is  partly  adapted  from  Parnell’s 
The  Hermit  which  was  then  prescribed  as  a University  text 
and  therefore  widely  read  and  repeatedly  translated  into 
verse.  The  earliest  translator  of  The  Hermit  was  Rangalal 
Banerji  (1858).  Chaudhuri’s  diction  is  smooth  and  lyrical. 


19 


PROSE  FICTION  AND  BANKIM  CHANDRA 

CHATTERJI 


As  in  poetry  so  in  prose  the  romance  had  its  earliest 
inspiration  from  the  pages  of  Tod’s  Rajasthan  and  similar 
works,  and  the  earliest  historical  stories  recounted  by  a 
Bengali  writer  were  in  English — -the  Tales  of  Yore  ( ? 1 848)  by 
Sashichandra  Dutt  who  belonged  to  a Calcutta  family  that  was 
pioneer  in  English  learning.  Bhudev  Mukherji  (1825-94), 
an  eminent  Hindu  Collegean,  was  one  of  the  first  to  write 
historical  fiction  in  Bengali.  His  Aitihasik  Upanyas  (His- 
torical Tales,  1862)  contains  a story  and  a novelette;  the 
subject  matter  of  both  was  taken  from  J.  H.  Caunter’s 
Romance  of  History.  The  second  story,  Ahguriyavinimay 
(Exchange  of  Rings),  is  an  improvement  upon  Caunter’s 
tale.  The  Mahratta  Chief.  It  tells  the  story  of  Sivaji’s 
victory  over  the  army  of  Aurangzeb  and  the  incipient  love 
between  him  and  his  fair  prisoner,  the  daughter  of  the 
Mughal  emperor.  The  story  is  well  written,  and  historical 
atmosphere  is  maintained.  Mukherji’s  tale  supplied  the 
main  outline  of  the  story  of  Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji’s 
Durgesnandini,  the  first  romantic  novel  in  Bengali. 
Mukherji’s  stiffness  of  style  stood  in  the  way  of  his  historical 
tale  winning  wider  appreciation  which  it  deserved. 

Bengali  fiction  in  its  proper  sense,  that  is  an  original 
treatment  of  Bengali  life  and  manners,  was  initiated  by 
Peary  Chand  Mitra  (1814-83)  who  invariably  used  the 
pen-name  ‘Tekcamd  Thakur’  in  his  original  Bengali 
writings  which  include  six  books — picaresque  fiction  and 
social  sketches,  moral  lessons,  and  didactic  and  spiritual 
tales — all  primarily  intended  for  women  readers.  Mitra  was 
a Hindu  Collegean.  He  had  been  well  read  in  Bengali  before 
he  went  for  English  education.  He  was  a man  of  manifold 
activities  and  had  various  interests  including  commercial 
enterprise.  In  his  later  days  Mitra  was  interested  also  in 


230 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


spiritualism  and  Theosophy.  His  rich  and  varied  experience 
was  however  only  partially  utilized  in  his  social  sketches  and 
didactic  tales. 

Peary  Chand  Mitra’s  literary  activity  began  in  1854 
when  he  started  a monthly  ‘penny’  magazine  for  women,  in 
collaboration  with  Radhanath  Sikdar,  the  man  who  discovered 
that  Mt.  Everest  was  the  highest  peak  of  the  Himalayas.  The 
editors  felt  that  the  current  high  style  of  literary  prose  would 
defeat  their  purpose,  and  they  set  up  their  own  easy  style 
that  was  a compromise  between  the  literary  language  and 
the  spoken  style. 

Mitra’s  first,  and  best  representative  work,  Alaler  Gharer 
Dulal  (Pampered  Son  of  a Front  Rank  Family)  is  the  first 
specimen  of  original  fiction  that  appeared  first  in  the  pages 
of  the  penny  monthly  magazine  ( Masik  Patrika)  in  1855-57 
and  in  book  form  in  1858.  It  is  the  tragic  career  of  the  elder 
son  of  an  elderly  man  who  had  made  money  but  lacked  proper 
education  and  good  sense.  The  boy  was  allowed  to  do  as  he 
liked  and  this  finally  brought  ruin  upon  him.  But  the 
younger  brother  was  a good  boy  and  he  ultimately  saved  his 
brother.  The  story  is  palpably  didactic  and  lacks  the 
completeness  of  a novel.  But  characterization  generally  is 
not  only  good  but  sometimes  brilliant,  and  the  episodes 
though  scrappy  glow  with  life  and  humour.  The  ways 
of  the  middle-class  gentry  in  the  neighbouring  towns  on  the 
Hooghly  in  the  early  nineteenth  century  are  faithfully 
delineated,  which  we  find  nowhere  else  in  contemporary 
literature.  Alaler  Gharer  Dulal  may  be  called  a picaresque 
novel  if  we  consider  the  career  of  Thak  Caca  (literally. 
Uncle  Cheat)  the  Muslim  munshi  and  similar  figures.  Thak 
Caca  is  a double-dyed  villain  but  human  all  the  same.  Like 
the  sixteenth  century  poet  Kavikankan’s  Bharhru-Datta, 
Mitra’s  Thak  Caca  is  an  immortal  rogue  in  Bengali 
literature. 

What  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt  did  for  Bengali  poetry 
was  done,  though  on  a much  lesser  scale,  by  Peary  Chand 


PROSE  FICTION  AND  BANKIM  CHANDRA  CHATTERJI  231 

Mitra  for  Bengali  fiction.  Mitra  created  his  own  style,  which 
in  spite  of  its  grammatical  crudities  and  lexical  inelegance, 
was  expressive,  lively  and  adequate.  Before  the  publication 
of  Mitra’s  tale  (we  may  put  aside  Mukherji’s  romantic  tale 
from  our  consideration  as  it  was  not  entirely  original  and  was 
intended  for  use  as  a college  textbook),  fiction  in  Bengali 
meant  only  folk-tales  and  romantic  adventurous  tales  from 
Sanskiit,  Persian,  Urdu  and  English.  It  was  Mitra  who,  as 
one  of  his  earliest  critics  Rajendralal  Mitra  pointed  out, 
relieved  the  general  reader  from  the  tedium  of  the  adven- 
turous folk-tales  in  pedestrian  verse  and  pedantic  prose. 

The  potentialities  of  Mitra’s  prose  style  and  the  possibi- 
lities of  his  fictional  attempt  escaped  notice  of  the  contem- 
porary writers  who  could  not  yet  break  away  from  the  spell 
of  the  sonorous  high  style  of  Vidyasagar.  An  exception 
was  Kaliprasanna  Simha  (1840-76),  the  man  who  had  the 
Mahabharata  translated  literally  into  Bengali  prose  and 
distributed  the  printed  copies  gratis,  and  who  gave  an 
enthusiastic  public  reception  to  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt 
on  the  latter’s  signal  achievement  in  Bengali  poetry.  Simha 
wrote  some  satirical  sketches  of  the  Calcutta  life  in  some  of 
its  social  and  personal  aspects.  The  stupid  insincerity  and 
the  vile  morals  of  the  new  rich  received  his  best  attention. 
The  language  is  entirely  colloquial,  rather  Calcutta  cockney, 
and  the  style  humorous  but  often  vulgar.  It  is  obvious  that 
Simha  received  his  inspiration  from  Mitra’s  tale  but  he  missed 
the  rugged  dignity  of  his  precursor’s  style  and  lacked  the 
humanism  of  his  outlook  and  the  richness  of  his  experience. 
Simha’s  Hutom  Periicar  Naksa  (Sketches  by  a Watching  Owl, 
1862)  is  an  enjoyable  work,  if  one  goes  in  for  cheap  and 
vulgar  wit.  Its  chief  value  now  is  historical. 

The  success  of  Simha’s  sketches  was  immediate  and 
immense,  and  a host  of  imitators  sprang  up,  some  taking  up 
the  cudgel  on  behalf  of  those  influential  men  who  were  the 
targets  of  Simha’s  satire.  Simha’s  style  was  profitably  adopted 
by  some  of  the  writers  in  the  early  seventies  who  adapted 


232 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


the  novels  of  Reynolds.  The  earliest  work  of  this  type, 
Haridaser  Guptakatha  (The  Scandalous  Tale  of  Haridas, 
1872),  was  so  popular  among  the  half-educated  and  the 
adolescent  specially,  that  a regular  crop  of  such  ‘Scandalous 
Tales’  ( Guptakatha ) flooded  the  market  of  cheap  fiction.  It 
must  not  be  presumed  that  these  works  were  all  or  wholly 
vulgar  or  entirely  trivial.  Some  were  quite  good  romances 
of  the  juvenile  type.  One  thing  must  be  said  for  these 
works  now  forgotten — that  they  were  written  entirely  in 
a bold  colloquial  style  which  accounted  for  a part  of  their 
spontaneous  popularity. 

Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji  (1838-94)  was  educated  at  the 
Hooghly  College  and  belonged  to  an  orthodox  family.  He 
did  for  Bengali  fiction  what  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt  had 
done  for  Bengali  poetry,  that  is,  he  brought  in  imagination. 
Chatterji  was  more  fortunate  than  Dutt  as  he  did  not  have  to 
set  up  his  own  diction  from  the  very  start.  The  prose  style 
was  already  standardized  ; what  Chatterji  did  was  to  break  its 
monotony,  shear  off  its  ponderous  verbosity  and  give  it  a 
twist  of  informality  and  intimacy.  Chatterji’s  own  style  grew 
up  as  he  went  on  writing. 

Chatterji,  following  the  discipline  of  Isvarcandra  Gupta, 
began  his  literary  career  as  a writer  of  verse.  Fortunately  he 
was  not  slow  to  feel  that  poetry  was  not  his  metier.  He  then 
turned  to  fiction.  His  first  attempt  was  a novelette  in 
Bengali  submitted  for  a declared  prize.  The  prize  did  not 
come  to  him  and  the  novelette  was  never  published.  His 
first  fiction  to  appear  in  print  was  Rajmohan’s  Wife  (pub- 
lished serially  in  Indian  Field  in  1864).  It  is  written  in 
English  and  is  probably  a translation  of  the  novelette 
submitted  for  the  prize.  Durgesnandini  (Daughter  of  the 
Feudal  Lord),  his  first  Bengali  romance,  was  published  next 
year  (1865).  Bhudev  Mukherji’s  tale  (. Ahguriyavinimay ) 
supplied  the  nucleus  of  the  plot  which  was  modelled  some- 
what after  Scott’s  Ivanhoe.  The  high  style  of  Vidyasagar  is 


PROSE  FICTION  AND  BANKIM  CHANDRA  CHATTERJI  233 

followed  and  the  influence  of  the  contemporary  predilection 
for  low  humour  and  buffoonery  is  admitted  in  the  super- 
fluous character  of  the  idiotic  brahman.  But  the  tale  was 
something  that  was  undoubtedly  new  and  entirely  delightful. 
The  pseudo-historical  background  was  a justification  for 
a pure  love  romance  intended  for  readers  who  knew  only 
married  love. 

The  next  novel  Kapalkundala  (1866)  is  one  of  the  best 
romances  written  by  Chatterji.  The  theme  is  lyrical  and 
gripping  and,  in  spite  of  the  melodrama  and  the  dual  story, 
the  execution  is  skilful.  The  heroine,  named  after  the  men- 
dicant woman  in  Bhavabhuti’s  Mdlatlmddhava,  is  modelled 
partly  after  Kalidasa’s  Sakuntala  and  partly  after  Shakes- 
peare’s Miranda.  The  diction  matches  the  lyrical  nature  of 
the  main  story. 

The  next  romance  Mrnalim  (1869)  indicates  an  amateur- 
ishness and  a definite  falling  off  from  the  standard.  It  is  a 
love  romance  against  a historical  background  sadly  neglected 
and  confused.  The  main  characters  are  inchoate  and  undeve- 
loped, and  the  story  unconvincing.  The  parallel  story  of 
Pasupati  and  Manorama  could  have  been  better  developed 
into  a separate  novel.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  Mrndlinl  was 
actually  written  before  Kapalkundala. 

After  this  Chatterji  was  not  content  to  continue  only  as 
a writer  of  prose  romances,  but  appeared  also  as  a writer  with 
the  definite  mission  of  stimulating  the  intellect  of  the 
Bengali  speaking  people  through  literary  campaign  and  of 
bringing  about  a cultural  revival  thereby.  With  this  end  in 
view  he  brought  out  the  monthly  Bangadarsan  (Mirror  of 
Bengal)  in  1872.  In  the  pages  of  this  magazine  all  his  writings 
except  the  very  last  two  works  first  came  out.  These  writings 
include  novels,  stories,  humorous  sketches,  historical  and  mis- 
cellaneous essays,  informative  articles,  religious  discourses, 
literary  criticisms  and  reviews. 

With  the  exception  of  two  stories  and  a novelette, 
Chatterji’s  fiction  is  domestic  romance  with  a moral  under- 


234 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


lining  and  a social  motive.  Visavrksa  (The  Poison  Tree, 
1873)  was  his  first  novel  to  appear  serially  in  Bangadarsan. 
The  theme  is  a domestic  tragedy  brought  about  by  widow- 
remarriage.  Nagendra,  an  educated  and  rich  young  man, 
happily  married,  meets  by  chance  the  young  orphan  girl 
Kunda  (Kundanandinl)  whom  he  is  obliged  to  give  shelter 
in  his  home.  She  is  given  in  marriage  to  a relation  of  his 
wife  Suryamukhi  but  soon  comes  back  a widow.  Nagendra 
now  falls  in  love  with  Kunda.  Suryamukhi  became  aware 
of  this  and  as  a wife  ready  to  please  her  husband  had  not 
much  trouble  in  inducing  him  to  marry  Kunda.  After  the 
marriage  she  left  home  unknown  to  anybody.  Nagendra’s 
love  for  Kunda  soon  died  and  he  went  out  in  search  of 
Suryamukhi.  The  latter  had  been  rescued  from  sure  death 
by  a sannyasi.  Nagendra  found  Suryamukhi  and  the  couple 
were  reconciled.  Kunda  was  broken  hearted  and  committed 
suicide.  There  are  episodes  and  minor  characters  which 
relieve  the  story  from  the  tedium  of  motivation.  In  this 
novel  the  Bengalee  reader  for  the  first  time  received  glowing 
glimpses  of  the  middle  class  domestic  life.  Chatterji’s 
narrative  skill  had  full  play  in  Visavrksa.  Nevertheless  it 
marks  a setback  for  Chatterji  as  a novelist  as  here  he  begins 
to  assert  himself  as  a teacher  of  morality  and  does  not  remain 
satisfied  as  an  interpreter  of  life.  It  also  makes  him  out  as 
a non-progressive  reformer.  Chatterji  was  one  of  the  first 
two  graduates  of  the  newly  founded  Calcutta  University.  He, 
however,  held  orthodox  views  on  some  vital  social  problems 
and  did  not  support  widow-remarriage. 

Candrasekhar  (1877)  suffers  markedly  from  the  impact 
of-  two  parallel  plots  which  have  little  common  ground.  The 
scene  is  once  again  shifted  back  to  the  eighteenth  century. 
But  the  novel  is  not  historical.  It  has  however  one  remark- 
able feature  ; it  is  the  only  novel  of  Chatterji  that  depicts  the 
full  development  of  a character,  viz.  the  heroine  Saivalinl. 
The  plot  has  suffered  from  the  author’s  weakness  for  the 
occult. 


PROSE  FICTION  AND  BANKIM  CHANDRA  CHATTERJI  235 

The  next  novel  Rajarii  (1877)  followed  the  autobio- 
graphical technique  of  Wilkie  Collins’  A Woman  in  White. 
The  title  role  is  modelled  after  Bulwar  Lytton’s  Nydia  in 
Last  Days  of  Pompeii.  In  this  romance  of  a blind  girl 
Chatterji  is  at  his  best  as  a literary  artist.  Characterization 
is  uniformly  good  and  the  style  easy  and  unaffected. 

In  Krsnakanter  Uil  (Krishnakanta’s  Will,  1878) 
Chatterji  added  some  amount  of  feeling  to  imagination,  and 
as  a result  it  approaches  nearest  to  the  western  novel.  The 
plot  is  somewhat  akin  to  that  of  The  Poison  Tree.  The 
story  opens  with  an  episode  of  domestic  intrigue  leading  to 
the  infatuation  of  a married  man  for  a young  widow  with 
better  looks  than  his  wife  and  ends  with  the  ruin  it  brought 
upon  the  family.  The  lesson  is  that  the  self-sacrifice  of  a 
loyal  wife  can  ultimately  save  the  soul  of  a man,  and  that 
purely  carnal  love  can  only  lead  to  ruin. 

The  only  novel  of  Chatterji’s  that  can  claim  full  recog- 
nition as  historical  fiction  is  Rajsimha  (1881,  rewritten  and 
enlarged  1893).  But  the  historical  environment  of  the  plot 
is  often  marred  by  the  introduction  of  unhistorical  episodes 
and  of  characters  that  have  little  historical  bearing.  Never- 
theless, the  story  is  very  interestingly  told. 

Anandamath  (The  Mission  House  of  the  Anandas, 
1882)  is  a political  novel  without  a sufficient  plot.  It  definitely 
marks  the  decline  of  Chatterji’s  power  as  a novelist.  The  plot 
of  the  meagre  story  is  based  on  the  Sannyasi  rebellion  that 
occurred  in  North  Bengal  in  1773.  Chatterji  gave  it  a politico- 
religious  twist.  He  made  his  characters  selfless  patriots, 
inspired  by  the  teachings  of  the  Gita,  who  fought  against  odds 
with  the  British  whom  they  looked  upon  as  the  arch  enemy 
of  the  country,  responsible  for  the  terrible  famine  of  the 
preceding  year.  The  author  as  an  administrative  officer  of 
the  government  could  not  but  show  that  this  estimate  of  the 
British  rule  in  India  was  wrong,  and  he  attributed  the 
failure  of  the  Anandas  to  their  own  weaknesses  rather 
than  the  superior  forces  and  ingenuity  of  the  British.  But 


236 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Chatterj  i was  not  overmuch  fond  of  the  British  rule  not 
only  as  a true  son  of  India  but  also  on  personal  grounds. 
He  was  also  not  insensible  to  the  national  movement  which 
was  slowly  gathering  force.  Anandamath  was  his  vengeance 
as  well  as  his  tribute.  As  fiction  it  cannot  be  called  an 
outstanding  work.  But  as  the  book  that  interpreted  and 
illustrated  the  gospel  of  patriotism  and  gave  Bengal  the  song 
‘Bande-mataram’  (I  Worship  Mother)  which  became  the 
mantra  of  nationalism,  Anandamath  is  the  most  vital  work  of 
Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji.  Incidentally  it  gave  tremendous 
impetus  to  the  various  patriotic  and  national  activities 
culminating  in  the  terrorist  movement  initiated  in  Bengal  in 
the  first  decade  of  the  twentieth  century. 

In  the  mean  time  Chatterji  was  gradually  missing  art  for 
propaganda.  A revival  of  orthodox  Hinduism  based  on  a 
pseudo-scientific  explanation  of  the  Bhagavadgita  and  other 
texts,  a reactionary  movement  counteracting  progressive 
thought  and  Brahmo  monotheism,  and  deriving  indirect 
support  from  Theosophy,  made  the  novelist  almost  a complete 
convert.  Devi  Caudhurani  (1884)  fully  reveals  him  as  such. 
The  story  is  romantic  and  interesting  and  is  delightfully  told, 
no  doubt.  Some  episodes  are  charmingly  realistic.  But  the 
development  of  the  central  figure  from  the  poor  and  neglected 
first  wife  of  a well-to-do  brahman  young  man  to  a female 
Robin  Hood  following  the  cult  of  Krishna  the  detached 
Master  of  the  Bhagavadgita,  is  unconvincing  and  un- 
warranted. 

Chatterji’s  last  novel  Sitaram  (1886)  has  for  its  theme 
the  insurgency  of  a Hindu  chief  of  lower  central  Bengal 
against  the  impotent  Muslim  rule.  The  central  figure  is  well 
delineated  but  other  figures  are  either  too  idealistic  or  im- 
palpable. The  plot  is  neither  well  conceived  nor  well  woven, 
and  the  style  is  uneven  and  somewhat  slipshod. 

After  the  novels,  the  humorous  sketches  are  the  out- 
standing productions  of  Chatterji.  Kamalakdnter  Daptar 
(The  Scribblings  of  Kamalakanta,  1875  ; enlarged  as 


PROSE  FICTION  AND  BANKIM  CHANDRA  CHATTERJI  237 

Kamalakanta,  1885)  contains  half  humorous  and  half  serious 
sketches  somewhat  after  De  Quincey’s  Confessions  of  an 
English  Opium-Eater.  It  shows  the  writer  at  his  best. 
Chatter] i’s  serious  essays  are  collected  in  two  volumes.  The 
topics  range  from  positivism  to  literary  criticism  and  from 
history  to  popular  science.  In  two  of  his  longest  essays 
Chatterji  took  great  pains  to  interpret  the  basic  ideas  of 
Mill’s  Utilitarianism  and  Compte’s  Positivistic  Humanism. 
His  analysis  of  the  economic  condition  of  agrarian  Bengal  is 
acute,  and  one  could  wish  that  he  had  maintained  this  interest 
in  the  life  of  the  people.  But  unfortunately  that  element  of 
his  mental  make-up  which  was  attracted  by  the  mysterious 
and  the  occult  was  gradually  getting  the  upper  hand.  He 
lost  his  interest  in  Utiliterianism  and  in  the  problems  of  the 
Bengal  peasantry  and  took  to  the  study  of  the  Sankhya 
philosophy  and  the  Gita.  The  closing  years  of  his  life  were 
almost  entirely  devoted  to  the  study  of  the  Gita  and  the 
problems  of  Krishnaism.  The  result  of  this  enquiry  is 
embodied  in  the  two  volumes,  Dharmatattva  (Essence  of 
Religion,  1888)  and  Krsnacaritra  (Life  and  Character  of 
Krishna,  1882  ; revised  1892).  The  last  work  is  a monument 
of  Chatterji’s  power  of  critical  analysis  and  of  the  clarity  of  his 
historical  perspective. 

Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji  was  a superb  story-teller,  and 
a master  of  romance.  He  is  also  a great  novelist  in  spite  of 
the  fact  that  his  outlook  on  life  was  neither  deep  nor  critical, 
nor  was  his  canvas  wide.  But  he  was  something  more  than 
a great  novelist.  He  was  a pathfinder  and  a pathmaker. 
Chatterji  represented  the  English-educated  Bengalee  with  a 
tolerably  peaceful  home  life,  sufficient  wherewithal  and  some 
prestige,  as  the  bearer  of  the  torch  of  western  enlightenment. 
The  only  problem  of  life  that  stirred  his  literary  impulse,  and 
that  too  lightly,  was  domestic  unhappiness  of  what  now 
appears  to  have  been  the  most  superficial  kind.  The  rosy 
glow  of  romance  that  pervades  his  novels  was  indeed  symbolic 
of  the  easier  life  and  the  spacious  days  of  the  late  Victorian 


238 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Bengal.  The  readers  of  his  novels  felt  that  glow  and  they 
feel  it  even  now.  No  Bengali  writer  before  or  since 
has  enjoyed  such  spontaneous  and  universal  popularity  as 
Chatterji.  His  novels  have  been  translated  in  almost  all  the 
major  languages  of  India,  and  have  helped  to  stimulate 
literary  impulses  in  those  languages. 

V I 

Sanjiv  Chandra  Chatterji  (1834-89),  an  elder  brother  of 
Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji,  was  a born  reconteur.  He  might 
have  been  a better  novelist  than  his  younger  brother  if  only 
he  was  less  whimsical  and  more  steady  in  his  literary  pursuits. 
He  edited  his  brother’s  monthly  during  the  later  years  of 
its  existence  and  himself  started  a small  monthly  entitled 
Bhramar  (from  April  1874).  Both  magazines  were  printed 
at  and  published  from  their  ancestral  village  home  at 
Kaihthalpada  (about  24  miles  to  the  north  of  Calcutta). 
The  first  two  issues  of  Bhramar  contained  two  stories  by 
the  editor,  the  last  of  which  was  the  nearest  to  the  short 
story  proper  as  introduced  later  by  Rabindranath  Tagore. 
Kanthamala  (The  Necklace,  1877)  is  a loosely  knit  and 
carelessly  written  novel.  The  philanthropic  society  outlined 
in  Chapter  Twenty  supplied  the  idea  of  Anandamath  to 
Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji.  In  Madhavllata  (The  Entwining 
Creeper  ; serially  1878-80)  the  earlier  history  of  some  of  the 
characters  of  Kanthamala  is  recounted.  The  story  reminds  - 
us  of  Bengali  folk-tales.  The  plot  is  rambling,  the  narration 
casual  and  the  sequel  abrupt.  But  the  figure  of  Pitam  is  a 
lovable  creation,  and  is  probably  a self-portrait  of  the  author. 
Jdl  Pratapcand  (The  False  Pratapchand,  1881)  tells  fasci- 
natingly the  story  of  domestic  intrigue  in  a very  rich  family 
which  became  a cause  celebre  in  the  early  nineteenth  century. 
It  is  as  much  fiction  as  history,  and  is  narrated  with  feeling. 
The  most  characteristic  and  the  best  known  work  of  Sanjiv 
Chandra  Chatterji  are  his  travel  sketches  named  Palamau 
(serially,  1880-82).  Here  the  author’s  lyric  feeling  has  found 
adequate  expression  against  the  colourful  background  of  the 


PROSE  FICTION  AND  BANKIM  CHANDRA  CHATTERJI  239 

primitive  man  and  the  unspoiled  nature  of  the  Chota- 
Nagpur  hills  in  the  fifties  of  the  last  century. 

Sanjiv  Chandra  Chatterji  was  a gifted  writer.  He  had 
imagination  and  feeling,  but  he  was  careless  and  lacked 
industry,  which  made  his  stature  seem  smaller  than  it  actually 
was.  The  elder  Chatterji  was  a poet  even  if  he  wrote  only 
prose,  which  the  younger  Chatterji  never  was,  despite  a book 
of  verse  that  stands  to  his  credit  (or  discredit). 

The  day-to-day  life  of  the  lower  middle  class  people,  their 
mean  jealousies,  petty  bickerings,  dumb  sufferings  and 
simple  joys  were  the  subject-matter  of  Taraknath  Ganguli’s 
(1845-91)  Svarnalata  (1873).  It  was  the  first  domestic  novel 
in  Bengali  with  genuine  realistic  touches.  The  characters 
are  drawn  directly  from  life.  There  is  no  influence  of 
Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji,  either  in  the  technique  or  in  the 
style.  Ganguli  wrote  three  stories  and  two  more  novels,  the 
materials  of  which  also  appear  to  have  come  mainly  from  his 
own  experience.  He  was  a medical  doctor  in  government 
service. 

Pratap  Chandra  Ghosh’s  (d.  1920)  Bahgadhip-parajay 
(Defeat  of  the  Lord  of  Lower  Bengal  ; published  in  two  parts, 
1869  and  1884)  was  not  in  the  least  influenced  by  the  novels  of 
Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji,  and  in  length  it  is  the  only 
original  novel  written  in  the  nineteenth  century  that  could 
match  its  English  contemporaries.  The  theme  is  historical — 
the  fall  of  Pratapaditya  of  Jessore  brought  about  by  his  own 
arrogance  and  weakness  and  helped  by  domestic  intrigue. 
The  author  was  an  antiquarian  of  some  repute,  being  the 
Assistant  Librarian  of  the  Asiatic  Society  and  he  took  great 
pains  not  to  deviate  from  history,  and  to  recreate  the 
atmosphere  of  the  early  seventeenth  century  and  capture  the 
local  colour  as  far  as  he  could.  The  characterization  is  good. 
But  as  a fiction  Defeat  of  the  Lord  of  Lower  Bengal  suffers 
from  a ponderous  style,  long  descriptions  and  a wearily  slow- 
moving  narration.  The  whole  effect  is  rather  dull.  But 


240 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


in  spite  of  the  heavy  reading  the  novel  was  not  entirely 
rejected  by  the  reading  public. 

Ramesh  Chandra  Dutt  (1848-1909),  better  known  as 
R.  C.  Dutt  outside  Bengal,  a member  of  the  Indian  Civil 
Service  and  a President  of  the  Indian  National  Congress, 
took  to  writing  historical  and  domestic  romances  at  the 
instance  of  Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji.  His  first  two  novels 
are  pseudo-historical  romances  ; Bahgavijeta  (Conqueror  of 
Bengal,  1874)  takes  us  to  the  days  of  Akbar,  and  Madhavi- 
kankan  (The  Wristlet  of  Madhavl-twig,  1877)  to  the  days 
of  Shahjahan.  The  next  two  novels  are  truly  historical ; 
Maharastra  Jivanprabhdt  (The  Dawn  of  Life  for  the 
Marathas,  1878)  narrates  Aurangzeb’s  clashes  with  Sivaji 
and  the  emergence  of  the  Marathas  as  a power  in  India,  and 
Rajput  Jivansandhya  (The  Sundown  of  Life  for  the  Rajputs, 
1879)  describes  the  decline  of  the  Rajput  militarism  during 
the  reign  of  Jehangir.  In  the  second  edition  the  four  novels 
were  published  in  a single  volume  entitled  Satavarsa  (The 
Hundred  Years,  1879),  as  the  stories  carry  us  through  a 
hundred  years’  rule  of  four  successive  Mughal  emperors. 
Bahgavijeta  suffers  from  a crowding  of  incidents  and 
characters,  and  the  English  basis  of  some  of  these  are  but 
thinly  covered.  The  story  of  Madhavlkahkan  is  partly 
based  on  Tennyson’s  Enoch  Arden.  In  technique  and  style 
it  shows  marked  improvement  upon  its  predecessor.  Jivan- 
prabhdt is  still  better  written.  Dutt’s  Aurangzeb  is  better 
delineated  than  Chatterji’s  character  in  his  Rajsimha.  There 
is  also  a clear  expression  of  the  author’s  love  for  the  mother- 
land. In  Jivansandhya  history  gets  the  upper  hand  and 
the  story  element  is  subordinated.  The  overcrowding  of 
incidents  and  the  high  tempo  of  narration  have  interfered 
with  its  effectiveness  as  fiction. 

Dutt’s  last  two  novels  are  mild  and  idyllic  romances  of 
lower  middle  class  life  in  rural  and  urban  west  Bengal. 
Dutt  was  posted  for  some  time  as  a district  officer  in  this 
region,  and  he  apparently  drew  from  his  own  experience. 


PROSE  FICTION  AND  BANKIM  CHANDRA  CHATTERJI  241 

A faithful  picture  of  typical  peasant  families  belonging  to 
this  region  is  drawn  in  the  Rev.  Lai  Behary  Dey’s  Bengal 
Peasant  Life  (London,  1874).  In  Samsar  (The  Family, 
1886)1  Dutt  fearlessly  supports  widow-remarriage.  It  in- 
dicates his  standpoint  contrasted  against  Chatterji’s  and 
the  popularity  of  this  well-written  novel  proves  how  far  the 
reading  public  was  mentally  advanced  since  the  publication 
of  Chatterji’s  The  Poison  Tree.  Samaj  (The  Society,  1894) 
follows  the  career  of  the  principal  characters  of  the  same 
family. 

R.  C.  Dutt  translated  the  whole  of  the  Rigveda  into 
Bengali  prose  (1885-87)  and  compiled  important  religious 
texts  with  translations  after  the  manner  of  Muir  in  his 
Sanskrit  T exts.  This  was  published  in  two  volumes  (1895-96). 
His  English  adaptations  of  the  stories  of  the  Ramayana  and 
the  Mahabharata  are  well  known,  and  so  also  his  brief 
survey  of  Bengali  literature  ( The  Literature  of  Bengal,  1887). 
His  Civilization  in  India  in  two  volumes  is  a good  study  of 
the  cultural  history  of  the  country. 

In  the  literary  history  of  Bengal  as  well  as  in  the  cultural, 
and  to  some  extent  also  in  the  political,  history  of  India  R.  C. 
Dutt  had  played  his  part  well.  His  was  an  energetic  per- 
sonality and  he  contributed  materially  to  the  building  up  of 
the  nation  in  its  formative  period. 

The  tragic  ending  of  some  of  Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji’s 
novels  was  unpalatable  to  the  general  readers,  specially  the 
adolescent  and  the  womenfolk  who  were  accustomed  to  tales 
that  always  ended  in  happy  wedlock  or  festive  family  reunion. 
So  Damodar  Mukherji  (1853-1907)  wrote  his  first  novel 
Mrnmayi  (1874)  that  carried  the  best  of  Chatterji’s  tragic 
stories,  Kapalkundald,  to  a happy  end.  In  Nababnandini 
(The  Nabob’s  Daughter)  the  story  of  Ayesha  the  other  heroine 
of  Chatterji’s  Durgesnandini  is  continued  to  an  approved 

1 Translated  into  English  by  the  author  under  the  title  The  Lake  of 
Palms  (London,  1902). 

16 


242 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


termination.  Mukherji  successfully  adapted  Scott’s  The 
Bride  of  Lammermore  in  his  Kamalkumdri  and  Wilkie 
Collins’  A Woman  in  White  in  his  Suklavasana  Sundari. 
Besides  these  he  wrote  more  than  a dozen  original  novels. 
Sensationalism  and  open  didacticism  are  the  main  features 
of  his  fiction. 

Historical  fiction-writing  was  a much  easier  operation 
than  handling  purely  imaginary  plots.  So  the  novel  writers 
of  the  late  nineteenth  century  had  a preference  for  the 
‘historical’  novel  which  was  often  no  history  and  less  novel. 
But  there  were  sporadic  productions  which  were  better  history 
than  anything  that  had  been  written  as  history  on  the  topic 
or  on  the  period.  One  such  book  is  Haran  Chandra  Raha’s 
Ranacandi  (1876).  The  story  belongs  to  the  traditional  history 
of  Kachar  in  the  north-eastern  corner  of  Bengal  bordering  on 
Assam.  The  author  had  heard  the  tale  from  an  old  barber 
who  in  his  young  days  had  attended  Govindacandra  Narayan 
the  last  king  of  Kachar.  He  also  heard  it  from  an  old  gentle- 
man who  had  been  an  agent  of  the  widow  of  the  king. 

Svarna  Kumari  Devi  (1855-1932),  an  elder  sister  of 
Rabindranath  Tagore,  was  the  first  all-round  and  accom- 
plished literary  woman  of  Bengal.  Her  literary  activities 
continued  uninterrupted  for  well  nigh  half  a century  and 
included  novels,  short  stories,  poetry  and  drama.  Her  first 
novel  Dipnirvan  (The  Burning  Out  of  the  Lamp,  1876)  had 
for  its  plot  the  well-known  historical  story  of  Prithviraj.  The 
next  two  books,  Chinnamukul  (The  Plucked  Blossom,  1879) 
a novel,  and  Malatl  (1879)  a long  story,  have  for  their  theme 
sisterly  love.  Among  her  later  novels  Snehalata  (1892)  is  the 
most  remarkable.  Herein  appears  for  the  first  time  some  of 
the  problems  of  the  advanced  set  of  the  middle  class  society 
of  Calcutta.  Svarna  Kumari  Devi  successfully  edited  for  some 
years  the  monthly  magazine  Bhdrati  which  was  started  by 
her  brothers  in  1877. 

Among  the  contemporary  writers  of  fiction  two  names 
are  specially  worthy  of  mention,  Sivanath  Sastri  (1847-1919) 


PROSE  FICTION  AND  BANKIM  CHANDRA  CHATTERJI  243 

and  Srish  Chandra  Majumdar  (d.  1908).  The  former’s 
Mejabau  (The  Second  Daughter-in-law,  1879)  and  Jugantar 
(Passing  of  an  Age,  1895)  may  not  be  very  well  knit  as  novels 
but  they  present  good  pictures  of  domestic  and  social  life  of 
the  very  interesting  period  when  English  education  was 
looked  upon  with  alarm  in  the  orthodox  home.  Majumdar’s 
romances,  Saktikanan  (1877),  Phuljani  (1894)  and  Visvanath 
(1896),  present  brilliant  views  of  the  not  uninteresting  days 
in  village  life  a hundred  years  or  two  ago.  He  shows  the  rare 
gift  of  going  deep  into  the  beauty  of  nature  and  capturing 
the  elusive  atmosphere  of  idyllic  romanticism. 

Nagendranath  Gupta  (1861-1940)  who  later  made  his 
name  as  a journalist  started  on  his  literary  career  as  a novelist 
in  1883  when  his  first  romantic  novel  Parvatavasinl  came  out. 
The  next  book  Lila  (1885)  is  a very  good  domestic  novel. 
Gupta  continued  to  write  novels  till  a few  years  before  his 
death.  These  novels  follow  Bankim  Chandra  Chatter ji’s 
pattern  of  romance  with  the  dramatic  element  predominating. 
Gupta  wrote  a few  short  stories,  some  of  which  are  of  abiding 
value. 

Indranath  Banerji’s  (1849-1911)  satirical  writings  (including 
verses,  sketches,  stories  and  a novel)  were  once  widely  appre- 
ciated, not  only  for  their  own  value  but  also  for  the  reactionary 
and  orthodox  attitude  of  the  writer.  But  at  the  present  day 
the  grossness  and  vulgarity,  the  main  ingredients  of  his 
sarcasm  and  wit,  appear  too  much  for  the  literary  taste, 
and  Banerji  is  now  a forgotten  writer,  although  some  of 
his  writings  deserve  a better  fate.  Banerji’s  satirical  novel 
Ksudiram  (1874)  created  the  vogue  of  attacking  the  pro- 
gressive society  by  a section  of  journalistic  writers.  As  a satire 
his  poem  Bharat-uddhar  (The  Deliverance  of  India,  1877) 
in  five  cantos  is  a much  better  work. 

Jogendra  Chandra  Basu  (1854-1907),  founder  of  Banga- 
vdsi  the  most  popular  organ  of  reactionary  orthodoxy,  was  an 
important  member  of  the  literary  group  led  by  Indranath 


244 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Banerji.  Bose  wrote  half  a dozen  satirical  novels  and  stories 
of  which  the  most  well-known  is  Madel  Bhagim  (The  Model 
Sister,  1886-88).  It  is  practically  a lampoon  against  a very 
well-known  family  noted  for  enlightenment  and  culture. 
The  best  work  of  Bose  is  Rajalaksmi  (1896-1902),  the  biggest 
novel  in  Bengali.  The  plot  is  partly  based  on  Hugo’s 
Les  Miser ables  and  partly  on  hearsay  and  fact.  Life  and 
manners  in  Bengal  and  outside  in  the  beginning  of  the 
century  are  painted  glowingly.  Some  of  the  minor  characters, 
taken  from  life  and  slightly  satirized,  are  enjoyable.  Like  all 
other  works  of  Basu  it  suffers  from  verbosity.  Despite  long 
descriptions  and  tedious  digressions  the  novel  is  good 
reading. 

Rare  sympathy  and  humour  characterize  the  entertaining 
tales  of  Trailokyanath  Mukherji  (1847-1919)  who  followed 
with  success  the  style  and  the  technique  of  the  folk-tale.  The 
plot  of  Kahkdvati  (1892)  is  nicely  woven  round  a nursery 
quatrain  and  following  the  pattern  of  Alice  in  Wonderland. 
In  this  novel,  written  for  both  the  young  and  the  old,  reality 
and  imagination  as  well  as  the  pathetic  and  the  grotesque 
have  a unique  artistic  synthesis.  There  is  mild  satire  against 
foolish  and  pernicious  orthodoxy  which  considerably 
enlivens  the  story.  The  stories  in  Muktamala  (String  of 
Pearls  ; published  in  book  form,  1901)  may  be  called  the 
New  Arabian  Nights  in  Bengali  literature,  and  the  figure  of 
Damarudhar  the  hero  of  the  grotesque  and  satirical  stories 
collected  after  the  author’s  death  under  the  title  Damaru- 
carit  (The  Career  of  Damaru  ; published  in  book  form,  1 923) 
is  a literary  caricature  that  can  be  compared  favourably  with 
Don  Quixote  and  Kai  Lung.  Mukherji  is  the  best  writer 
among  the  literary  circle  that  grew  up  round  the  editorial 
desk  of  Bahgavasi. 


20 


THE  THEATRE 


The  public  stage  was  initiated  by  a group  of  amateurs  who 
had  some  previous  experience  of  the  private  stage.  It  was 
the  day  of  ‘national’  enthusiasm,  and  the  first  public  theatrical 
party  was  named  the  National  Theatre.  There  was  as  yet 
no  permanent  stage  and  the  performances  were  held  in  the 
spacious  halls  or  courtyards  of  some  notable  private  houses 
in  Calcutta.  The  National  (later,  Great  National)  Theatre 
started  in  December  1872  with  Nil-darpan  and  other  plays 
by  Dinabandhu  Mitra,  which  brought  immediate  success. 

The  Bengal  Theatre  is  the  first  public  theatre  to  have 
a permanent  stage  in  its  own  house.  It  was  also  the  first  to 
engage  actresses.  Before  that  male  actors  impersonated  the 
women  on  the  stage.  The  share  capital  of  the  Bengal 
Theatre  was  contributed  by  eighteen  young  men  each  putting 
in  a thousand  rupees.  The  promotor  and  honorary  secretary 
was  Sarat  Chandra  Ghosh,  a well-to-do  young  man  of  ideas. 
The  National  Theatre  started  with  the  plays  of  Dinabandhu 
Mitra  which  are  full  of  fun  and  as  such  do  not  require 
gorgeous  costumes  and  costly  stage  decorations.  The  Bengal 
Theatre  imitated  the  splendour  of  the  private  stage  of  the 
Raja  brothers  of  Paikpara  where  Ratndvali  and  Sarmistha 
had  been  performed  with  great  eclat  in  the  late  fifties,  and 
they  started  with  Sarmistha  (August  ’73)  to  be  followed  by 
Ratnavall  and  other  works  of  Dutt  and  Tarkaratna. 

From  the  beginning  of  ’74  the  public  stage  turned  its 
attention  to  dramatic  performances  of  the  most  notable 
literary  works  in  vogue,  mainly  the  early  romances  of 
Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji  and  of  Ramesh  Chandra  Dutt, 
and  the  ‘epic’  and  narrative  poems  of  Michael  Madhusudan 
Dutt,  Hem  Chandra  Banerji  and  Navin  Chandra  Sen.  The 
theatre,  however,  did  not  fail  to  cater  for  the  lower  taste  as 
well.  Pantomimes,  burlesques  and  farces,  some  of  which 
luridly  depicted  contemporary  scandals  and  causes  celehres, 


246 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


were  much  more  in  demand  than  the  serious  plays.  By  the 
middle  of  ’75  the  modernistic  melodrama  was  introduced  on 
the  Bengali  stage  by  Upendranath  Das  (1848-95).  Das 
became  the  director  of  the  Great  National  Theatre  in  August 
’75  and  it  was  mainly  his  activities  that  brought  on  the 
Bengali  stage  the  displeasure  of  the  Government  and  the 
police.  The  Prince  of  Wales  (later  King  Edward  VII)  who 
had  come  to  Calcutta  towards  the  end  of  the  year  ’75  expressed 
the  desire  that  he  would  like  to  see  a Bengali  home.  But  no 
worthy  Bengali  gentleman  was  then  ready  to  admit  a foreigner 
(be  he  the  heir-apparent  to  the  Indian  Empire)  to  their  inner 
apartments.  At  last  a brahman  gentleman  from  the  province 
who  had  built  up  some  practice  at  the  Calcutta  High  Court 
and  who  as  a Junior  Government  pleader  and  nominated 
member  of  the  provincial  Legislative  Council  was  a man 
known  to  the  authorities,  availed  of  this  opportunity  to 
ingratiate  himself  further  into  the  good  graces  of  the  Govern- 
ment. He  took  the  Prince  to  his  inner  sanctum,  and  this 
was  the  first  time  that  a foreigner  had  been  admitted  into  the 
women’s  quarter  of  a Bengalee  home. 

This  provoked  a torrent  of  condemnation  from  the  high 
society  of  Calcutta.  Hem  Chandra  Banerji  wrote  one  of  his 
finest  satirical  poems  on  this  clever  move  that  put  a provincial 
fellow  on  top  of  the  Government  sponsored  Bengalee  society 
of  Calcutta.  The  Government  being  at  his  back,  this 
gentleman  did  not  have  to  face  social  ostracism.  But  he  could 
not  altogether  escape  punishment  which  came  from  an  un- 
expected quarter.  An  outrageous  lampoon  on  his  conduct 
was  staged  in  the  Great  National  Theatre  on  the  29th 
February  ’76.  It  was  promptly  suppressed  by  the  police  but 
was  staged  again  on  3rd  March  under  a different  title.  The 
Government  was  now  compelled  to  issue  an  ordinance 
followed  by  an  Act  which  empowered  the  provincial  admi- 
nistration to  prohibit  scandalous,  defamatory,  seditious  or 
obscene  stage  shows  and  performances.  Upendranath  Das’s 
melodrama  Surendra-vinodim  (first  performed  at  the  Bengal 


THE  THEATRE 


247 


Theatre  on  August  18,  ’75)  was  indicted  as  an  obscene  pro- 
duction by  the  lower  court  but  the  decision  was  set  aside  on 
an  appeal  to  the  High  Court. 


Since  the  inception  of  the  public  theatre  two  motives 
had  been  equally  persuasive  in  the  dramatic  compositions 
and  stage  performances.  One  was  the  educative  motive  which 
now  took  a political  colouring.  The  ‘national’  spii'it,  the 
awakening  in  the  heart  of  the  educated  Bengalee  of  a sense  of 
India’s  bondage,  found  expression  in  many  of  the  plays — be 
they  serious,  comic  or  operatic — that  were  produced  since 
the  establishment  of  the  public  stage  in  ’73.  .The  other 
motive  was  the  entertainment  of  the  audience,  and  it  took 
different  directions  which  were  ultimately  coming  together. 
In  burlesques  and  farces  the  continuity  with  the  past  (i.e.  the 
comic  Yatra)  was  maintained.  In  the  operas  and  musical 
pieces,  which  were  gaining  daily  in  popularity,  the  indigenous 
musical  play  was  taking  a new  shape  on  the  stage.  From 
the  beginning  of  the  eighties  the  opera  was  joining  hands 
with  serious  drama  with  a mythological  theme.  In  such 
plays  which  may  be  called  the  devotional  drama  and  which 
had  been  initiated  by  Manomohan  Basu  in  the  late  sixties, 
the  note  of  religious  devotion  was  becoming  stronger  and 
sharper,  and  reached  its  climax  in  the  plays  of  Girischandra 
Ghosh  who  had  become  a devotee  of  the  prophet  of  the  age, 
Ramakrishna  Paramahamsa  (1833-86). 

In  dramatic  technique  the  only  remarkable  innovation 
was  the  introduction  of  the  regular  free  verse,  adopted  from 
the  free  metre  of  Dutt,  by  Rajkrishna  Ray  in  1881.  This 
was  more  elegantly  employed  by  Girischandra  Ghosh  in  some 
of  his  serious  plays.  In  the  stage  craft  theie  was  no  improve- 
ment worth  the  name  until  the  early  twenties  of  the  next 
century  when  the  professional  stage  was  strengthened  by  the 
educated  actors  and  directors  who  had  seen  the  performances 
of  Rabindranath  Tagore’s  musical  plays.  In  the  serious  drama 


248 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


the  ‘national-  movement  was  insinuated  for  the  first  time  in 
Haralal  Ray’s  Hemalata  (1873),  a romantic  play,  and  V anger 
Sukhavasan  (The  End  of  the  Happy  Days  of  Bengal,  1874), 
a semi-historical  play  on  the  Muslim  conquest  of  Bengal  in 
the  early  thirteenth  century.  Ray’s  other  plays  are  not 
original  ; Rudrapal  (1874)  is  an  adaptation  of  Hamlet , and 
Satrusamhar  (The  Killing  of  the  Enemy,  1874)  and  Kanaka- 
padma  (The  Golden  Lotus,  1875)  are  based  on  the  Sanskrit 
dramas  V emsamhara  and  Sakuntala  respectively.  All  the 
five  plays  were  successfully  staged,  Hemalata  proving  the  most 
popular.  Ra,y  was  a Calcutta  school-teacher  in  Government 
service. 

Jyotirindranath  Tagore  (1848-1925),  an  elder  brother  of 
Rabindranath  Tagore,  was  perhaps  the  most  accomplished 
man  of  his  day.  He  played  uncommonly  well  on  the  violin 
and  the  piano,  he  composed  music,  he  could  draw  well  and 
he  wrote  effective  prose.  He  had  a fine  figure  and  was  a 
success  on  the  amateur  private  stage.  It  was  he  who  con- 
tributed most  in  directing  the  literary  and  artistic  develop- 
ment of  the  amazing  genius  of  Rabindranath  Tagore  during 
the  latter’s  boyhood  days.  The  connection  of  the  elder 
brother  with  the  stage  (private)  began  very  early  when  the 
Jorasanko  Theatre  was  set  up  by  his  family.  Jyotirindra- 
nath’s  first  play  was  Kincit  Jalayog  (Light  Refreshments, 
1872),  a one-act  farce  ridiculing  the  advanced  social  ideas  of 
a section  of  the  Brahmos  led  by  Keshabchandra  Sen.  The 
light  sarcasm  of  the  farce  is  enjoyable,  and  it  was  a success 
also  on  the  public  stage  (1872-75). 

The  first  national  assembly  of  a sort,  the  Hindu  Mela, 
was  sponsored  by  Devendranath  Tagore,  his  sons,  and  friends 
and  was  a precursor  of  the  Indian  National  Congress.  The 
Tagore  family  led  by  Devendranath  who  was  called  Maharsi 
(i.e.  the  great  sage)  by  his  admiring  countrymen,  were 
nationalists  to  the  bone,  and  they  gave  unfailing  support 
to  the  nationalist  press  and  to  all  nationalistic  moves. 
Devendranath  Tagore’s  sons  and  friends  wrote  the  first 


THE  THEATRE 


249 


national  songs  and  hymns.  In  Jyotirindranath’s  first  serious 
play  Puruvikram1  (The  Might  of  Puru,  1874)  we  find 
for  the  first  time  the  sustained  literary  expression  of 
the  growing  spirit  of  nationalism.  Puru,  or  Porus  as  the 
Greeks  called  him,  was  a suitable  symbol  for  the  spirit 
of  India  that  was  indomitable  even  though  subjugated 
and  Alexander  was  a convenient  substitute  for  the  British. 
The  play  is  not  very  well  written  but  much  above  the 
average  play  written  for  the  stage.  Its  stage  success  was  not 
unexpected. 

His  next  work,  Sarojinl  (1875),  was  a tragic  drama 
depicting  the  conflict  of  paternal  affection  with  dominant 
patriotism.  The  plot  is  well  made  and  shows  the  influence 
of  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt’s  Krsnakumari  as  well  of 
Euripides’s  Iphigeneia  in  Aulis  (Renan’s  French  translation). 
It  was  the  most  successful  of  Jyotirindranath’s  plays  and 
retained  its  popularity  for  a very  long  time.  It  was  rendered 
into  more  than  one  Yatra  play  and  performed  all  over  the 
country.  His  second  farce,  Eman  Karma  Ar  Karbo  Na 
(I  Won’t  Do  Such  a Deed  Again,  1877),  was  also  performed 
with  signal  success  on  the  stage,  private  and  public.  The 
title  was  later  changed  into  Alik  Babu  (The  False  Babu, 
1900).  It  is  one  of  the  best  farces  existing  in  Bengali,  and 
is  entirely  free  from  sarcasm  or  vulgarity. 

The  third  serious  play  Asrumatl  (1879)  brings  out  the 
conflict  of  love  with  family  duty  against  a background  of 
patriotism.  The  story  is  taken  from  Rajput  history  ; the 
struggle  of  Pratap  Singh  of  Chitor  with  the  Mughal  emperor 
Akbar  is  the  background  of  the  theme  which  is  the  love  of 
Pratap’s  daughter  for  Akbar’s  son.  Asrumatl  was  staged  with 
conspicuous  success.  Jyotirindranath’s  next  production  was 
a very  short  musical  play,  Manamayi  (1880),  later  renamed 
Punaruasanta  (The  Second  Spring,  1899),  the  meagre  plot  of 
which  is  somewhat  based  on  A Midsummer  Night’s  Dream. 


It  was  translated  into  Gujarati. 


250 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


His  fourth  and  last  original  serious  play  is  Svapnamayt 
(1882).  It  has  for  its  theme  a historical  incident  of  late 
seventeenth  century.  Sobhasingh  and  Rahim  Khan  of  South- 
west Bengal  joined  hands  and  rebelled  against  the  Mughal 
power.  They  marched  northward  and  killed  Krishnaram 
Ray,  the  Raja  of  Burdwan.  Sobhasingh  occupied  his 
palace  and  held  his  daughter  SatyavatT  a prisoner.  When  he 
attempted  to  make  criminal  assault  on  her  she  killed  him 
with  a dagger.  This  is  the  story  on  which  the  plot  is  built 
up.  The  play  cannot  be  called  historical  as  historicity  is  sub- 
ordinated to  the  fictitious.  Svapnamayt  is  different  from  the 
three  previous  plays  both  in  structure  and  in  style.  Charac- 
terization is  sharper  and  the  lyrical  element  is  predominant. 
In  these  points  and  in  the  manipulation  of  the  plot  the 
influence  of  the  author’s  youngest  brother  may  be  safely 
presumed.  The  verse  portion  came  from  the  pen  of  the 
latter,  and,  presumably  also  some  of  the  humorous  scenes. 
After  Svapnamayt  Jyotirindranath’s  only  original  work  was 
a farce,  Hite  Vipafit  (A  Reversal  to  a Good  Action,  1896), 
and  two  musical  playlets  (1900).  His  original  works,  however, 
are  far  outnumbered^ by  his  translations.  He  translated  into 
Bengali  (1899-1904)  almost  all  the  important  Sanskrit  plays, 
including  those  of  the  newly  discovered  Bhasa,  and  two  plays 
from  English,  one  of  which  is  Shakespeare’s  Julius  Ccesar 
(1907).  From  French  he  translated  two  farces  of  Moliere, 
Le  bourgeois  gentilhomme  (under  the  title  Hathat  Nabab , 
1881)  and  Marriage  force  (under  the  title  Daye  Pode 
Daragraha,  1902). 

His  prose  works  include  some  essays,  a great  deal  of 
translation  from  French,  some  from  English  and  a little  from 
Marathi.  It  was  he  who  introduced  to  the  Bengali  readers 
the  French  masters  such  as  Maupassant,  Merime,  Gautier, 
Loti  and  others. 

Melodrama  proper  was  introduced  by  Upendranath  Das, 
the  actor-director  of  the  Great  National  Theatre  (1875-76) 


THE  THEATRE 


251 


and  author  of  the  lampoon  that  was  responsible  for  the 
enactment  of  the  Dramatic  Performances  Control  Act  in 
December  ’76.  In  the  two  plays  of  Das,  Sarat-sarojini  (1874) 
and  Surendra-vinodini  (1875),  patriotism  and  romance  are 
garnished  with  the  sensationalism  of  a thriller.  The  plot  of 
Surendra-vinodini  is  partially  based  on  fact.  Both  the  plays 
were  very  successful  on  the  stage,  specially  the  latter.  His 
other  play  Dada  O Ami  (1887),  based  on  the  English  play 
Brother  Bill  and  I,  was  written  when  he  was  in  England. 
Das  brought  new  vigour  to  the  public  stage. 

Rajkrishna  Ray  (1852-94)  possessed  uncommon  facility 
in  writing  prose  and  verse,  specially  the  latter.  He  had  talent, 
but  had  little  opportunity  to  cultivate  it.  He  received 
practically  no  schooling  and  from  his  early  days  had  to  depend 
on  his  pen  for  his  living  at  a time  when  writing  as  a pro- 
fession was  worse  than  precarious.  Ray  had  run  a theatre 
where  the  impersonation  of  female  characters  was  done  by 
young  boys.  Many  of  his  plays  were  written  for  this  stage. 
Ray’s  serious  plays  have  for  their  theme  devotional  stories 
from  the  Puranas.  In  this  way  he  was  partly  responsible  for 
approximating  the  public  stage  to  the  popular  Yatra  show. 

Ray’s  first  attempts  were  two  musical  playlets,  Pativrata 
(1875)  on  the  Savitri-Satyavan  story  and  Natyasambhav  (1876) 
on  the  creation  of  the  drama  by  the  sage  Bharata.  Then  came 
his  serious  plays  on  the  various  Purana  stories,  of  which  five 
were  based  on  the  Ramayana.  The  theme  of  two  was  taken 
from  history.  These  plays  were  very  successfully  staged  in 
the  Bengal  Theatre  and  elsewhere.  Prahlad-caritra  created 
a box-office  record.  He  also  wrote  a score  of  light  farcial 
sketches.  In  Haradhanurbhahga  (The  Snapping  of  the  Bow 
of  Siva,  1881),  a play  written  in  less  than  a week,  Ray  intro- 
duced the  irregular  free  verse  which  was  soon  to  be  improved 
in  the  hands  of  Girischandra  Ghosh.  Ray  popularized  on 
the  stage  some  romantic  tales  from  Persian  and  Urdu. 

Rajkrishna  Ray  was  an  untiring  versifier.  His  books  of 
poems  number  more  than  a score,  excluding  translations  of 


252 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


the  Ramayana  and  the  Mahabharata,  and  he  conducted  for 
some  years  a monthly  poetry  magazine  entitled  Vina  (1885). 
He  wrote  a couple  of  novels,  and  produced  some  tales  in 
prose  and  verse.  More  remarkable  are  his  experiments  in 
irregular  free  verse  and  extended  rhymed  verse  and  his  half- 
hearted attempts  at  prose-poems.  Ray  was  a man  of  ideas 
but  had  no  opportunity  to  employ  his  talents  properly. 

Girischandra  Ghosh  (1844-191 1),  the  most  renowned  among 
the  playwrights  and  actors  for  the  Bengali  stage,  was  asso- 
ciated with  the  public  theatre  from  its  very  inception  in 
December  1872  and  was  connected  some  time  or  other  with 
most  of  the  playhouses  established  since.  Soon  after  the 
establishment  of  his  reputation  as  a talented  actor,  the 
requirements  of  the  stage  induced  him  to  set  up  the  romances 
of  Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji  and  the  poems  of  Michael 
Madhusudan  Dutt  and  others  as  stage  plays  (’73-75).  In  ’77 
he  started  writing  short  operas  or  musical  plays.  Serious 
drama  was  taken  up  from  ’81  when  he  wrote  his  first  original 
work  Ananda  Raho  (Be  of  Good  Cheer)  which  he  called  a 
‘historical  play’.  It  was  neither  historical  nor  much  of  a play, 
and  it  did  not  succeed.  Ghosh  then  took  to  semi-devotional 
plays  based  on  mythological  tales,  and  Ravanvadh  (Killing 
of  Ravan)  was  written  in  the  same  year.  The  devotional 
strain  gradually  gained  the  upper  hand  and  subordinated  the 
dramatic  interest  in  his  plays  based  on  the  life  and  activities 
of  some  saints  and  avatars  (’84-89),  of  which  the  best  is 
Buddhadevcarit  (1885).  It  was  based  on  Edwin  Arnold’s 
Light  of  Asia.  Next  came  tragic  plays,  domestic  and  mytho- 
logical. The  best  of  these,  according  to  a consensus  of 
opinion,  is  Praphulla  (1891).  The  domestic  tragedy  of  this 
play  has  suffered  from  exaggeration  and  overdoing  of  the 
sobstuff.  The  last  group  of  Ghosh’s  plays  (1905-11)  breathe 
patriotism  reflected  in  the  contemporary  Swadeshi  move- 
ment. The  dominant  note  was  not  of  fiery  activity  and 
vindictiveness  but  of  sober  adherence  to  the  ancient  ideal  of 


THE  THEATRE 


253 


forbearance,  which  indicates  the  influence  of  Vivekananda’s 
teachings. 

Ghosh  was  an  indefatigable  playwright  ; and  his  plays, 
numbering  about  four  score  and  sustained  mainly  by  his  own 
acting  and  direction,  were  very  successful  on  the  stage.  He 
knew  exactly  what  was  demanded  by  his  audience.  The 
general  audience  found  the  stage  entertainment  good  if  the 
play  and  the  play-acting  verged  on  the  sentimental,  spiced 
with  mild  sarcasm  and  spaced  by  suitable  songs.  Ghosh’s 
plays  conformed  to  the  literary  taste  of  his  audience  and 
contained  nothing  to  ruffle  their  mental  plumes.  It  should 
not  be  forgotten  that  his  plays  were  written  at  the  time  when 
a kind  of  reformed  Hinduism  found  favour  among  a large 
section  of  the  educated  Bengalees. 

Ghosh’s  social  plays  are  concerned  with  the  lower  middle 
class  life  of  Calcutta.  But  he  touched  only  the  fringe  of 
this  life  ; the  inner  man  eluded  him,  and  the  tragedv  is 
almost  always  melodramatic.  The  real  problems  of  the 
middle  class  family  life  as  also  the  vital  elements  in  the 
character  of  an  individual  with  its  inhibitions  and  proclivities 
escaped  the  playwright.  Ghosh  wrote  only  for  the  stage  that 
cared  for  an  audience  which  insisted  that  the  play  should 
be  well  worth  the  ticket  purchased.  From  this  point  of  view 
his  plays  were  always  successful. 

Amritlal  Bose  (1853-1929)  was  another  plavwright, 
although  of  a different  calibre,  who  was  connected  with  the 
public  stage  from  the  very  beginning  and  maintained  the 
connection  till  the  last.  Bose  was  a comedian,  in  play- 
acting as  well  as  in  play-writing.  He  received  direct  inspira- 
tion from  the  farces  of  Jyotirindranath  Tagore  but  was  not 
insensible  to  the  coarser  influence  of  Indranath  Banerji’s 
burlesques  and  satires  in  prose  and  verse.  Speaking  generally, 
Bose  helped  much  in  directing  the  public  stage  humour  to 
a better  form  and  to  a more  enjoyable  course.  One  or  two 
of  Bose’s  farces  are  based  on  Moliere’s  comedies  ; e,g. 
Krpaner  Dhan  (The  Miser’s  Money,  1900)  is  based  on 


254 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


L’avare.  Cover  Upar  Batparl  (A  Thief  Robbed,  1876)  is 
based  on  a story  of  Boccaccio.  The  rest  have  as  their  theme 
incidents  of  topical  interest.  His  best  farces  are,  however, 
directed  against  social  incongruities  and  perversities  and 
personal  idiosyncracies.  The  most  typical  work  of  this  type 
is  Vivaha  bibhrat  (A  Marriage  Imbroglio,  1884).  It  paints 
brightly  the  snobbery  of  half-educated  Bengalee  young  men 
and  young  women  in  their  ridiculous  attempts  to  show  off 
their  veneer  of  anglicized  culture.  At  the  same  time  the 
other  side  of  the  picture  is  not  neglected ; the  hungry 
attempts  of  the  father  of  a marriageable  son  just  returned 
from  England  to  extract  heavy  dowry  from  the  bride’s  father 
are  splashed  in  lurid  colour. 

Bose  wrote  some  romantic  plays.  The  earliest  of  these 
is  Hirakcurna  (The  Diamond  Dust,  1875).  It  is  based  on 
a contemporary  political  affair,  the  alleged  attempt  on  the 
part  of  the  then  Gaikwar  of  Baroda  to  kill  the  British 
resident  officer  by  putting  diamond  dust  in  his  wine  cup. 
In  the  later  romantic  plays  the  comic  element  however 
predominates.  Among  these  mention  may  be  made  of  Khas- 
dakhal  (Direct  Possession,  1911)  and  Navayauvan  (Early 
Youth,  1913). 

The  plays  of  Bose  lack  the  seriousness  of  Girischandra 
Ghosh.  Bose  was  not  a teacher  but  an  entertainer,  though 
the  effect  of  his  comedies  was  not  negligible. 

When  Ghosh  and  Bose  were  in  their  heyday  of  activity, 
Rabindranath  Tagore  came  out  on  his  private  family  stage 
as  the  writer  of  musical  plays  and  serious  drama  and  also 
as  an  actor  thereon.  In  composition  and  in  production  the 
works  of  Tagore  were  far  superior  to  anything  that  had  been 
done  before.  But  with  the  exception  of  a single  play, 
Raja  O Ram  (The  King  and  the  Queen,  1889),  none  of 
Tagore’s  plays  were  put  up  on  the  public  stage  till  very  late. 
Raja  O Rani  was  a complete  stage  success  but  naturally  its 
popularity  was  limited.  The  performance  of  Raja  O Rani 
indicated  an  uplifting  of  the  stage-craft  in  Calcutta.  But 


THE  THEATRE 


255 


the  effect  did  not  last,  as  the  plays  of  Tagore  thereafter  were 
non  sunt  for  the  Bengali  public  theatre  for  more  than  a 
quarter  of  a century.  Tagore’s  influence  as  a play-actor  on 
some  of  the  best  actors  of  the  day  was  acknowledged  by 
Amritlal  Bose  in  one  of  his  poems  in  Amrtamadira  (The 
Wine  of  the  Immortal,  1903). 

Dwijendra  Lal  Ray  (1863-1913),  or  D.  L.  Ray  as  he  was 
generally  known,  was  an  administrative  officer  of  the  Govern- 
ment and  had  been  sent  to  Britain  to  receive  training  in 
agriculture.  As  a playwright  he  followed  in  the  footsteps  of 
Bose.  His  first  play  was  a burlesque,  Kalki  Avatar  (The 
Last  Prophet,  1895).  It  is  written  in  free  verse  of  the  nursery 
rhyme  variety  and  it  contained  some  comic  songs  which  in 
his  later  farces  also  form  the  best  entertaining  part  of  the 
play  as  well  the  best  enduring  item  of  his  literary  productions. 
Two  of  the  serious  plays  of  D.  L.  Ray  are  based  on  the 
Ramayana  and  one  on  the  Mahabharata  (entitled  Bhisma 
and  published  posthumously  in  1913).  The  Ramayana  plays, 
Pdsani  (The  Petrified  Woman,  1900)  and  Slta  (1902),  are 
written  in  verse.  The  first  is  written  entirely  in  the  free 
metre  after  the  manner  of  Rabindranath  Tagore.  The  play 
may  be  taken  as  a very  modern  version  of  the  story  of  Indra’s 
seduction  of  Ahalya.  The  influence  of  Girischandra  Ghosh 
is  noticeable  in  characterization.  The  songs  are  obvious 
imitations  of  Tagore.  The  other  play,  Slta,  written  in 
rhymed  verse,  is  undoubtedly  the  best  play  that  he  ever  wrote. 

Tarabai  (1903)  and  Sorab-Rostam  (1908)  are  rather  melo- 
dramatic poems  than  plays.  The  story  of  the  first  is  taken 
from  Rajput  history.  Songs  feature  largely  in  both,  specially 
in  the  later.  Influence  of  Tagore  is  apparent  in  the  free  verse 
of  Sorab-Rostam.  No  serious  attempt  has  been  made  to 
maintain  the  exotic  atmosphere  of  the  theme. 

The  later  plays  of  D.  L.  Ray  are  written  in  prose  and 
their  stories  are  taken  from  Rajput  history.  The  influence 
of  the  two  melodramas  of  Upendranath  Das  is  undoubtedly 


256 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


present.  There  are  some  songs  of  which  the  tunes  were 
made  up  by  the  author  (who  had  real  gift  for  music)  from 
European  music  and  they  enhanced  the  popularity  of  these 
plays  which  were  very  successful  on  the  stage.  Patriotism  of 
the  sentimental  variety  is  the  keynote  of  these  pseudo- 
historical  plays.  The  best  of  the  ‘historical’  plays  of  Ray  is 
Sajahan  (1910),  as  it  shows  the  least  of  the  author’s  besetting 
sins  as  a playwright  It  must  be  said  to  Ray’s  credit  that  his 
plays  went  a long  way  to  remove  from  the  public  stage  the 
stale  atmosphere  of  the  tearful  tragedy  and  the  sticky 
religiosity. 

Kshirod  Prasad  Vidyavinod  (1863-1927),  a professor  of 
chemistry  at  a Calcutta  college,  first  appeared  as  a writer  of 
musical  plays  and  operas  in  1895.  One  of  these  is  Alibaba 
(1897).  It  is  based  on  the  very  well-known  tale  from  the 
Arabian  Nights.  Ali'baba  may  be  called  the  evergreen 
operatic  play  of  the  Bengali  public  stage  and  its  popularity 
does  not  seem  to  have  suffered  much  even  after  half  a century 
since  its  first  appearance.  The  author  had  the  happy 
inspiration  of  reviving  the  old  time  comic  figures  that 
appeared  in  the  beginning  and  at  intervals  in  the  Yatra 
performances.  But  he  put  them  in  a new  garb.  The  music 
(by  Purnachandra  Ghosh)  and  dance  (by  Nripendrachandra 
Bose)  matched  well.  The  play  made  history  in  the  chronicles 
of  the  public  stage  in  Bengal. 

Vidyavinod  wrote  very  many  plays,  musical,  historical, 
devotional,  comic  and  romantic.  He  did  not  go  in  for  the 
social  drama.  In  all  his  plays  the  story  interest  is  taken  full 
care  of,  and  in  his  devotional  and  puranic  plays  the  overmuch 
importance  of  the  religious  and  moral  value  of  the  plot  is 
subordinated  to  the  romantic  interest,  thereby  improving  the 
dramatic  quality.  He  was  a judiciously  partial  imitator  of 
both  Girischandra  Ghosh  and  Rabindranath  Tagore.  He 
followed  the  former  in  the  technique  and  the  latter  in  the 
plot-making.  The  best  instance  is  Raghuvir  (1903),  a 
Ramayana  play.  His  first  play  Phulsayya  (Bridal  Bed,  1894) 


THE  THEATRE 


257 


is  a pseudo-historical  play  in  the  free  metre  following 
mainly  the  plays  of  Rabindranath.  His  last  play  Ratnesvarer 
Mandire  (In  the  Temple  of  Ratnesvar,  1922)  shows  the 
influence  of  the  newly  arrived  technique  of  the  Cinema. 
The  story  however  is  original. 


17 


21 


THE  ROMANTICS 


It  was  the  Sanskrit  Collegean  Biharilal  Chakravarti  (1834-94) 
who  produced  poetry  out  of  his  own  necessity  and  not  from 
any  outside  motivation  or  constructive  impulse.  He  belonged 
to  a Calcutta  family  and  read  Sanskrit  not  so  much  as  a 
scholar  but  as  a lover  of  poetry.  He  was  profoundly  in- 
fluenced by  Valmiki  and  Kalidasa.  He  knew  English  but  did 
not  read  much  of  it  at  school,  which  was  fortunate  inasmuch 
as  English  poetry  did  not  overwhelm  him  as  it  did  Michael 
Madhusudan  Dutt  and  others.  At  the  same  time  he  had 
a deep  understanding  of  the  older  poets  of  Bengali  literature. 
These  factors  combine  to  make  Chakravarti  a poet  entirely 
different  from  his  contemporaries,  not  to  say  from  his 
predecessors. 

Chakravarti’s  first  book  of  verse  was  a century  of  songs 
written  in  the  old-fashioned  way.  Then  he  started  a magazine 
named  Purnima  (1858)  and  on  its  discontinuation  another 
entitled  Abodhbandhu  (The  Friend  of  the  Ignorant)  which 
ran  for  four  years  (1866-69).  His  poems  and  prose  writings 
first  appeared  in  the  pages  of  these  magazines.  Bandhuviyoga 
(The  Passing  Away  of  a Friend,  1863)  in  four  cantos  deplores 
the  loss  of  the  poet’s  first  wife  and  three  of  his  boyhood 
friends.  The  poems  follow  the  pattern  of  Isvarcandra  Gupta, 
and  the  only  remarkable  thing  is  the  expression  of  the  poet’s 
deep  love  for  his  native  land  and  its  poetry.  The  next  poem 
Prempravdhim  (The  Stream  of  Love,  1863)  does  not  show 
much  improvement  in  diction  but  it  breathes  a quality  that 
is  new.  The  poet,  sorely  disappointed  in  life  and  in  love, 
found  escape  in  the  pursuit  of  poetry.  When  the  lamp  was 
lit  within,  the  poet  felt  thus: 

Now  the  universe  is  lighted  up  by  an  intangible  light  ; 

the  heart  overflowing  raises  a paean  of  the  unknown. 

By  and  by  the  noise  of  the  crowd  dies  down,  and  a sweet 


THE  ROMANTICS 


259 


note  of  the  flute  pervades  all.  My  mind  is  sinking  in 
the  sea  of  sweetness,  and  my  body  is  soaring  in  ecstatic 
impulse. 

The  poet’s  condemnation  of  the  high-handed  literary  critics 
of  the  day  and  the  much-lauded  versifiers  is  unequivocal 
and  expresses  his  reaction  to  the  treaders  of  the  traditional 
path: 

They  lick  the  plate  finished  by  others  ; they  have  none 
of  their  own,  yet  they  are  the  dictators,  the  leaders  of 
Bengal.  The  path  of  poetry  their  mind  has  never 
traversed,  but  they  would  have  the  poets  follow  their 
lead.  They  have  never  known  what  sweetness  is,  but 
would  like  very  much  to  dispense  it. 

Chakravarti’s  third  poem  N isarga-sandarsan  (An  Excur- 
sion with  Nature,  1869)  is  divided  into  eight  cantos.  It 
recounts  the  poet’s  reaction  to  the  devastating  cyclone  that 
passed  over  Calcutta  in  early  November  of  1867.  The  verse 
lines  rhyme  alternately  and  form  quadruplets.  The  diction 
is  simple,  and  the  poet’s  experiment  with  the  metrical 
pattern  is  not  devoid  of  promise.  Nature  and  man  have  taken 
the  entire  canvas,  and  the  poet’s  self  is  in  the  background. 
The  next  poem  Vangasundari  (The  Bengal  Beauties,  1869) 
bears  the  first  impress  of  Chakravarti’s  romantic  lyricism. 
In  the  second  edition  (1880)  a new  poem  Surabala  (The 
Divine  Girl)  was  added  as  the  third  canto.  This  poem  is 
really  an  introduction  to  his  next  and  best  book  of  poetry. 
It  shows  a marked  improvement  on  the  tri verse  appearing 
in  the  other  cantos  written  long  before.  The  ‘divine  dis- 
content’ of  the  poet’s  heart  finds  expression  in  the  first  canto. 
The  second  canto  is  a hymn  to  the  eternal  woman  presented 
variously  in  mythological  majesty  and  gracefulness.  The 
third  paints  the  image  of  the  poet’s  ‘divine  girl’  and  follows 
the  career  of  her  disappointed  lover  who  is  made  by  his 
family  to  marry  a girl  of  their  own  choice.  The  fourth  speaks 


260 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


of  the  woman  who  passes  the  best  part  of  her  life  within  the 
four  walls  of  the  inner  apartments  doing  the  same  household 
duties  year  in  year  out.  At  long  last  she  finds  a path  of  escape 
in  books  which  she  had  learnt  to  read  only  lately.  But  there 
is  no  chance  of  escape  from  the  prison  of  her  daily  life,  and 
it  is  too  late.  The  fifth  canto  describes  the  pitying  girl. 
A group  of  thatched  cottages  had  caught  fire  and  the  girl  was 
watching  it  with  distressful  eyes  from  a window  of  her  home. 
The  sixth  decants  the  poet’s  suppressed  pity  for  a young  girl 
who  had  been  given  in  marriage  to  an  aged  and  uncouth  man. 
The  next  three  cantos  are  rather  cheerful  in  tone  ; they 
record  the  poet’s  admiring  contemplation  of  his  beloved  wife 
viewed  as  a companion,  a loving  wife  and  a young  mother 
respectively. 

Chakravarti’s  best  known  poem  is  Saradamarigal  (The 
Divine  Song  of  Poetic  Inspiration,  1879).1  The  name  in- 
dicates the  poet’s  liking  for  old  Bengali  poetry  although  in 
form  and  in  spirit  the  poem  is  entirely  different  from  any- 
thing that  had  been  yet  written  in  the  language.  Sarada- 
mahgal  has  an  inchoate,  amorphous  and  elusive  theme.  It  is 
the  poet’s  attempt  at  capturing  his  ideal  and  source  of 
inspiration  in  a tangible  form  in  his  contemplation  and 
imagination.  The  thoughts  of  the  poet  are  unstable  as  well 
as  immature  and  incoherent.  His  fancy  is  volatile  and  his 
imagery  has  a thin  quality  of  unreality  and  the  transient 
colourfulness  of  a half-formed  rainbow.  The  feeling  of 
joyousness  has  taken  complete  possession  of  the  poet’s  mental 
process.  All  these  factors  have  gone  to  make  the  diction  of 
Saradamangal  sometimes  unsmooth,  often  inarticulate  and 
occasionally  incomprehensible.  It  is  at  best  a poem  in  the 
making. 

In  the  first  canto  the  poet  retraces  the  experience  of 
ValmTki  when  a fowler’s  arrow  killed  the  male  bird  and 


1 The  poem  was  begun  in  1870  and  published  incomplete  in  a monthly 
in  1874.  It  was  completed  at  the  instance  of  the  wife  of  Jyotirindranath 
Tagore. 


THE  ROMANTICS 


261 


released  the  hidden  spring  of  sorrow  and  poetry  in  the  sage’s 
heart.  In  the  second  canto  the  poet’s  fancy,  like  Radha  of 
the  Vaishnav  poets,  has  gone  out  in  search  of  his  lost  love, 
that  is  joyousness  ( ananda ). 

The  third  canto  echoes  the  inner  conflict  through  which 
the  poet’s  Self  was  passing.  The  goal  is  revealed  in  a moment 
but  in  the  next  a blank  wall  is  confronted.  This  play  of  hide 
and  seek  is  very  tantalizing.  In  the  fifth  and  last  canto  the 
poet’s  quest  leads  him  to  the  lofty  peaks  of  the  Himalayas 
where  he  reaches  his  goal,  that  is  beatific  joy  (ananda). 

Sadher  Asan  (The  Cherished  Cushion,  1888-89),  the  only 
other  notable  poem  of  Chakra varti,  is  something  of  a sequel 
to  Saradamarigal.  The  name  of  the  poem  bears  the  germ  of 
its  genesis,  and  thereby  hangs  a tale.  The  poet  was  a 
personal  friend  of  Dwijendranath  Tagore  and  a valued  friend 
of  the  Tagore  family.  Jyotirindranath  Tagore’s  wife  was  an 
ardent  admirer  of  Chakra  varti ’s  poetry.  As  a token  of  her 
admiration  she  had  presented  the  poet  with  a woollen  cushion 
knit  by  herself.  She  demanded  a poem  in  return.  Chakra- 
varti  duly  began  his  poem,  but  after  producing  only  three 
stanzas  he  forgot  all  about  it.  After  her  untimely  death  he 
remembered  his  unrequited  promise  and  completed  the 
poem  in  ten  cantos  with  an  epilogue.  The  poem  opens  with 
a vision  of  beauty  that  underlies  the  various  experiences  of 
life  and  contemplation  and  which  is  the  all-embracing 
pattern  of  man’s  ideal.  The  poet  then  goes  back  to  his 
bygone  days  and  he  feels  once  again  the  loves  and  joys  of 
boyhood  and  early  manhood.  It  brings  him  to  the  garden- 
land  of  paradise  lying  on  the  threshold  of  heaven,  where  the 
love  for  his  beloved  leads  him  to  universal  love. 

I love  man  and  woman, 

I love  the  universe,  movable  and  immovable, 

I love  my  Self,  I joyfully  exist. 

He  meets  the  departed  soul  of  a loving  wife  on  her  way  to 
heaven.  A tear-drop  from  her  eyes  satisfies  the  parching  soul 


262 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


of  the  poet.  She  passed  in  through  the  gates  of  heaven,  but 
the  poet  found  them  barred  against  him.  The  soul  of  the 
poet  then  finds  solace  in  the  contemplation  of  divine  beauty 
that  finds  manifold  expression  in  form  and  content,  action 
and  thought.  The  poet  then  pays  his  homage  to  her  who 
had  led  him  to  finish  Saradamahgal  and  inspired  him  to  write 
the  present  poem,  as  she  was  to  him  the  earthly  image  of 
the  goddess  of  poesy. 

The  group  of  romantics  led  by  Biharilal  Chakra varti  was 
distinguished  not  only  by  their  intense  subjectivity  but  also 
by  their  stress  on  love,  specially  woman’s  love  and  on  other 
sentimental  ties.  Their  attitude  to  the  urgent  social  problems 
was  different  from  that  of  the  other  group  of  contemporary 
poets  who  may  be  conveniently,  though  not  properly,  called 
classicists.  It  is  strange  that  the  latter  who  were  mainly 
English  educated  reacted  unfavourably  to  the  advanced  ideas 
of  the  social  reformers  and  theorists,  and  their  support  for 
widow-remarriage  and  women’s  emancipation,  for  instance, 
was  at  best  mechanical  and  half-hearted.  The  romanticists, 
on  the  other  hand,  were  not  collegeans  and  they  were  never 
eloquent  on  social  reform  but  their  support  for  reform  was 
spontaneous  and  enthusiastic.  The  classisists  thought  of 
womanhood  in  general  as  inferior  beings  but  very  necessary 
for  biological  purposes,  if  not  always  the  sinful  decoy  of  hell 
as  the  rhymers  of  the  old  school  declared. 

Surendranath  Majumdar  (1838-78)  may  be  called  a semi- 
romanticist, although  he  began  his  literary  career  as  a 
classicist  writer  of  verse.  His  best  poem  is  Mahila2  (The 
Woman)  written  in  1870-71  and  published  posthumously  in 
two  parts  (1880,  1883).  The  poem  is  no  doubt  inspired  by 
Chakravarti’s  V angasundari  and  is  in  four  sections,  the  first 
of  which  is  introductory  and  the  other  three  devoted  to  the 
aspects  of  womanhood  revealed  to  a man  in  his  family  life: 


2 The  poet  did  not  complete  the  poem  nor  did  he  give  any  name 
to  it.  The  title  was  supplied  by  his  younger  brother  Devendranath 
Majjumdar  who  published  it. 


THE  ROMANTICS 


263 


the  mother,  the  wife  and  the  sister.  The  last  section  is 
unfinished  ; only  four  stanzas  were  written.  The  poet 
believes  that  it  is  the  woman  that  has  made  man  what  he  is 
today  and  that  will  finally  lead  him  on  to  heaven.  In  the 
section  praising  the  wife  the  poet  has  revealed  the  depth 
of  his  passion.  He  avers  that  after  death  his  departed  spirit 
would  hover  near  his  beloved  and  would  impregnate  the  life 
around  her  with  the  essence  of  his  love: 

When  of  an  evening  you  would  light  the  lamp  and, 
screening  it  from  the  breeze  with  the  hem  of  your  skirt, 
would  take  it  out  and  look  at  its  red,  slender  flame, 
you  should  know  that  I,  in  a glow  of  love,  am  trembling 
in  that  flame,  and  am  impatient  to  kiss  you. 

Like  Chakravarti  Majumdar  was  well  read  in  Sanskrit. 
His  diction  is  Sanskritic  and  terse.  Mahila  is  written  in 
seven-lined  stanzas.  Other  longer  poems  are  not  remarkable 
but  some  of  his  short  poems  are  good  pieces  of  poetry. 
Unfortunately  these  have  not  yet  been  compiled  in  a book. 
Majumdar  wrote  some  prose  articles,  and  he  translated  a 
goodly  portion  of  Tod’s  Rajasthan  (1873-78).  He  tried  his 
hand  at  play-writing  also.  The  historical  drama  Hdmir 
(published  posthumously  in  1881)  was  well  received  on 
the  stage. 

Dwijendranath  Tagore  (1840-1926)  was  a man  of  many- 
sided  genius,  almost  like  his  younger  brother  Rabindranath 
Tagore.  His  interests  ranged  from  mathematics  to  music 
and  from  philosophy  to  shorthand  writing.  He  could  sketch 
well  and  was  uncommonly  clever  in  making  cardboard  boxes. 
But  nothing  claimed  his  attention  for  long  except  philosophy, 
and  the  result  was  that  the  potentiality  of  his  manifold 
talent  remained  undeveloped.  The  poetic  impulse  came  to 
him  only  intermittently.  But  for  all  that  he  was  one  of  the 
masters  of  Bengali  prose  and  produced  a poem  which  is 
absolutely  unique. 


264 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Dwijendranath  translated  Meghaduta  (1860)  and  the 
translation  was  very  well  received.  Then  he  wrote  a few 
devotional  and  patriotic  songs  and  rendered  his  father’s 
'Manual  of  Brahmoism’  ( Brahmadharma ) into  Bengali  verse. 
His  great  poem,  great  in  the  sense  that  it  is  a masterpiece 
of  imaginative  construction,  Svapnapraydn  (The  Dream 
Adventure)  was  written  in  1873-74  and  published  in  1875. 
It  is  an  allegorical  poem  and  can  be  compared  with  Faerie 
Queene  and  Pilgrim’s  Progress.  It  is  neither  a spiritual  poem 
nor  a romantic  tale  in  verse.  As  Rabindranath  Tagore  has 
said,  it  is  like  a huge  edifice  of  many  terraces  of  dreamlike 
allegories,  with  towering  facades,  painted  halls,  carved 
galleries  and  ornamental  parks  around.  Boldness  in  imagery 
is  sustained  by  equal  boldness  in  design  as  well  as  in  rythm, 
rhyme  and  diction.  Like  his  friend  Chakravarti,  Dwijendra- 
nath did  not  hesitate  to  couple  the  colloquial  with  the  non- 
colloquial  and  the  ‘poetic’  expression  with  the  ‘non-poetic’. 
The  result  is  completely  satisfactory  which  Chakravarti’s  was 
not.  Above  all,  the  semi-serious  mood  of  Dwijendranath  has 
imparted  a quality  of  sharp  objectivity  and  palpableness  to 
the  dream-woven  traceries  of  the  allegories. 

‘The  Dream  Adventure’  puts  its  allegorical  theme  in 
the  outline  pattern  of  a folk-tale.  The  soul  of  the  poet,  in 
deep  slumber  as  it  were,  comes  out  of  the  confines  of  the 
body  in  search  of  adventures,  like  the  young  prince  in  popular 
tales.  When  ‘conciousness  was  engulfed  by  oblivion  of  sleep 
like  the  burning  lump  of  the  sun  dropping  down  at  the  end 
of  the  sea-line’  the  Dream  Maid  came  to  unlock  the  chamber 
of  the  mind.  The  chariot  of  thought  came  down  the  milky 
way  and  the  poet  (that  is,  his  soul)  got  into  it.  Miss  Fancy, 
the  charioteer,  started  the  chariot  for  Thought-Land.  Fancy 
dropped  the  poet  at  Joytown  the  capital  of  Thought-Land 
and  departed.  Separated  from  Fancy  the  poet  lost  all  interest 
in  his  adventure.  Soon  Friendship  came  forward  and  gave 
a short  account  of  the  land  and  of  the  ruling  house.  Service 
offered  him  refreshments.  Presently  the  poet  had  a call  from 


THE  ROMANTICS 


265 


King  Joy.  Friendship  took  him  to  the  king  who  welcomed 
him  as  a long-lost  friend. 

The  palace  of  King  Joy  seemed  to  the  poet  like  a known 
place,  almost  his  own  home  of  the  forgotten  childhood  days. 
The  king  told  Friendship  to  take  the  poet  round.  After  that 
Fancy  (she  was  really  the  daughter  of  King  Joy)  took  charge 
of  him  and  led  him  to  the  temple  of  Queen  Compassion 
(Maya)3  situate  in  a deep  forest.  As  soon  as  they  stepped 
into  the  forest  the  scene  changed  abruptly. 

Unlatching  the  south  gate,  the  prince  of  the  seasons,  in 
a slow  and  soft  gait,  stepped  into  the  forest  region,  and 
made  the  creepers  flower  down  to  their  joints  and  draped 
them  in  the  garb  of  new  leaves.  Nobody  knew  why  the 
aimless  Breeze  from  the  South  came  out  of  his  chamber. 
He  moved  the  veils  of  the  flowers  and  cadged  their 
fragnance,  and  then  he  was  disappointed  and  sighed, 
saying,  ‘This  is  not  she’. 

The  poet  met  Compassion  who  bore  the  look  of  his 
mother.  She  found  him  unchanged  and  shed  a few  drops 
of  tears  over  him.  Her  playful  companion  Activity  (Rajasi) 
painted  the  poet’s  eyes  with  the  collyrium  of  inspiration,  and 
the  poet  was  lost  to  his  surroundings.  Presently  the  other 
companion  of  Compassion,  Darkness  ( Tamasi ) came  in  and 
the  poet’s  contemplation  was  instantly  interrupted.  The 
dispirited  poet  set  sail  with  Friendship  for  Pleasuretown 
where  Prince  Pleasure  the  son  of  King  Joy  was  amusing 
himself.  As  soon  as  they  met  the  poet  knew  him  to  be 
a boyhood  friend  of  his.  The  Prince  recollected  him  fully 
when  he  had  introduced  himself  in  these  lines: 

Where  Truth4  and  Gold4  shine,  where  the  Strong  One4 
is  about,  where  Virtue5  and  Brilliance4  dispel  the  dark- 

3 Literally,  creative  illusion.  There  is  a subtle  pun.  In  Bengali  it 
usually  means  compassionate  love  as  of  a mother.  The  poet  had  just  lost 
his  mother. 

4 Satya,  Hem,  VTr,  Jyoti,  Ravi,  Som:  the  poet's  younger  brothers. 

5 Gun  (i.e.  Gunendranath) : his  cousin. 


266  HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 

ness  of  the  mind,  where  the  Sun4  and  the  Moon4  shine 
with  new  effulgence — it  is  that  Divine6  dwelling  this 
poet  brightens. 

The  prince  then  commanded  Voluptuousness  #to  sing 
and  dance.  One  of  her  songs  reminded  the  poet  of  his  boy- 
hood favourites.  When  it  was  finished  the  poet  put  on 
Voluptuousness  the  garland  that  Fancy  had  given  him. 
Humour  carried  this  tale  to  Fancy  who  was  much  offended. 
The  poet’s  attention  was  now  diverted  by  a terrible  incident. 
Heroism  had  rescued  a lady  from  the  clutches  of  the  king 
of  the  nether  region.  As  she  was  being  taken  to  the  ladies’ 
quarters  in  the  palace  of  the  prince  the  demons  came  out  in 
disguise  and  snatched  her  away.  Doubly  distressed  the  poet 
seeking  solace  from  Mother  Nature  left  the  court  of  the 
prince  and  the  company  of  Friendship.  He  strayed  into  the 
wilderness  of  Depression.  Winding  his  unguided  steps 
and  experiencing  nightmarish  thrills  the  poet  approached 
Depression-town.  He  was  captured  by  Sorrow  and  Sickness 
the  two  patrolmen  of  Immobility  and  was  led  to  the  presence 
of  the  demon  king  Depression.  The  residence  of  the  demon 
king  loomed  large  and  menacing  from  a distance. 

The  castle,  huge  and  lofty,  came  into  view.  Its  flanking 
walls  were  in  ruins,  but  its  tall  towers  proclaimed 
majesty.  Through  the  delapidated  windows  draught 
had  free  play. 

An  evil  owl  watched  from  the  top  of  the  colonnade. 
The  king  took  his  seat  in  the  assembled  court.  Before  the 
trial  of  the  prisoners  began,  the  king  took  his  minister  to 
task  for  his  lack  of  enthusiasm  in  doing  his  duties.  He 
said: 

You  are  like  Vishnu,  lying  in  His  eternal  bed  all  the 
time.  You  wake  up  for  a while  only  on  the  pay  day. 


1 See  ante. 

c Dev  (i.e.  Devendranath) : his  father. 


THE  ROMANTICS 


267 


To  this  charge 

The  minister  replied:  O king,  what  pay  is  like  I have 
not  known  for  the  last  three  years. 

The  king  was  pat  with  his  retort. 

The  king  said:  ‘All  my  men  are  lean  and  thin,  but 
you  alone  are  growing  into  a hillock  gf  flesh  as  I see. 
You  were  once  only  bones,  but  now  you  are  an  elephant. 
If  you  had  received  your  pay  the  world  ere  long  would 
have  come  to  an  end  for  you. 

The  poet  was  charged  as  a spy  of  Prince  Pleasure  and 
so  was  condemned  to  be  offered  as  a sacrifice  to  the  goddess 
Kali.  But  on  the  point  of  imminent  death  he  was  rescued 
by  the  goddess  Mercy.  The  poet  then  witnessed  a fight 
between  the  opposing  forces  of  Heroism  and  Terror  and 
finally  the  defeat  of  the  latter.  The  poet  was  terrified  and 
distressed,  and  he  invoked  the  aid  of  Mercy  who  made  him 
over  to  the  charge  of  Good  Company.  Good  Company  guided 
him  to  Austerity  Hill.  There  the  poet  received  from 
Restraint  patience  as  a coat  of  mail  and  from  Tranquility 
knowledge  as  an  axe.  He  then  pushed  his  way  up  the 
hill.  The  sorrows  of  the  human  world  he  was  leaving 
behind  were  tugging  him  back  at  every  step.  The  poet 
now  felt  keenly  for  human  sympathy  and  for  universal  love 
which  was  nowhere  to  be  found.  But  Good  Company 
sustained  his  hopes  and  his  tasks  brought  solace  to  him. 

You  are  a poet.  Why  should  you  be  sorrowful?  If  you 
receive  pain  at  heart  you  should  speak  out  and  make 
it  heard  by  all.  On  hearing  that  even  a playful, 
mercurial  child  would  stop  playing  and  would  sit  down 
quietly.  He  also  would  be  moved  by  the  sentiment 
and  his  dark  eyes  would  be  liquid.  You  are  a bird  of 
the  forest.  Why  do  you  then  cry  piteously?  You  are 
ever  a wild  bird,  and  so  you  would  be  for  all  time. 


268 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


I am  speaking  of  that  wilderness,  the  wilderness  that 
talks  face  to  face  with  the  wind  and  is  not  afraid  of 
storms  and  thunder,  that  is  not  enclosed  by  the  fence 
of  the  horizon,  that  takes  its  stand  all  by  itself  and 
holds  its  ever  joyous  branches  up  into  the  space. 

The  poet  realized  peace.  He  returned  to  the  domain  of 
King  Joy  and  was  wedded  to  Princess  Fancy.  The  dream 
adventure  of  the  poet,  the  quest  of  his  soul,  thus  came  to 
an  end. 

Dwijendranath  Tagore  wrote  a narrative  poem  in  light 
vein.  The  poem,  entitled  Yautuk  7ia  Kautuk  (Is  it  a Dowry 
or  a Fun?  1883),  was  dedicated  to  Rabindranath  Tagore  on 
the  occasion  of  the  latter’s  marriage.  Fun  and  seriousness 
spun  together  in  a free  and  easy  lightness  of  style  has 
rendered  the  poem  particularly  interesting.  Other  poems 
of  his  are  mostly  short  humorous  verses  intended  mainly  for 
private  consumption.  But  they  show  his  command  of  the 
language  and  mastery  over  the  metre.  One  of  his  singular 
achievements  in  Bengali  prosody  is  the  employment  of  some 
of  the  difficult  syllabic  metres  of  Sanskrit  in  colloquial  versi- 
fication. His  monograph  on  Bengali  shorthand  writing 
( Rekhaksar-varnamala  1912)  written  in  verse  is  a monument 
of  ingeniousness  as  well  as  a metrical  wonder. 

As  a writer  of  prose  Dwijendranath  was  equally  dis- 
tinguished. The  style  of  his  Gltapath  (Discourse  on  the 
Gita,  1915)  and  other  philosophical  essays  is  inimitable. 
He  could  draw  well,  as  the  whimsical  drawings  in  some  of 
his  private  letters  show.  He  was  interested  in  music.  He 
was  the  first  to  introduce  the  piano  in  Bengal. 

Devendranath  Sen  (1855-1920)  was  a Romantic  although 
his  partial  affiliation  to  the  classicists  cannot  be  seriously 
doubted.  It  was  the  woman  (as  also  the  child)  that  claimed 
his  entire  homage.  His  style  too  is  not  high  or  stiff.  But 
, Sen  could  not  shake  off  the  influence  of  the  style  of  Michael 


THE  ROMANTICS 


269 


Madhusudan  Dutt’s  sonnets  ; it  has  left  its  indelible  mark 
on  the  frequent  use  of  parenthesis  and  in  classical  allusions. 

Sen  was  an  advocate  practising  for  some  time  at  the 
district  court  of  Ghazipore  and  then  at  the  High  Court  in 
Allahabad.  In  his  poetry  the  flora  of  his  place  of  residence 
has  received  an  adequate  homage.  Sen’s  earliest  works  were 
three  very  short  books  of  poems  published  in  1880.  Asok- 
guccha  (The  Cluster  of  Asoka,  1901)  was  the  first  repre- 
sentative anthology  of  his  poetry.  Other  poems  published  in 
the  monthlies  were  collected  in  a dozen  books  all  published 
together  in  1911.  The  titles  of  these  end  in  the  word 
‘guccha’  (Sen  was  a lover  of  flowers):  Golap-guccha,  Sephati- 
guccha,  Parijat-guccha,  etc.  Others  are  Apurva  Naivedya, 
Apurva  Sisumangal,  Apurva  Vrajangana,  etc.  Some  of  these 
books  contain  as  appendix  English  versions  of  some  of 
the  poems. 

Sen’s  was  an  essentially  poet’s  mind,  and  his  best  poetry 
is  on  love.  But  it  is  married  and  domestic  love.  The  poet 
was  always  partial  to  the  woman  and  to  the  child.  There 
was  a religious  streak  in  him  which  became  manifest  towards 
the  end  of  his  career.  Sen  was  an  admirer  of  Rabindranath 
Tagore  and  was  always  sympathetic  to  the  young  writers  of 
verse.  He  used  to  come  often  to  Calcutta  and  stay  for 
some  time,  when  a small  coterie  of  young  writers  would 
surround  him. 

Govindachandra  Das  (1855-1918)  also  was  a poet  of 
domestic  love.  But  unlike  Sen’s  his  poems  do  not  breathe 
exclusively  domestic  happiness  and  ideals  of  married  love  ; 
flesh  moved  him  as  much  as  sentiment  and  association. 
It  was  daring  and  new  note  in  Bengali  poetry  when  Das 
wrote : 

I love  her  wholly,  her  bones  and  flesh  too,  for  the  charms 
of  that  woman,  for  the  stones  of  her  flesh,  which  is  but 
a desirable  bathing  pool  of  sexual  hunger.  In  that  mud, 
in  that  slime,  I am  ever  delighted  to  wallow  like  the 


270 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


serpent  Kaliya.  I love  her  wholly,  her  bones  and  flesh 
as  well. 

Das  had  no  acquaintance  with  English  literature.  Of 
his  contemporaries  only  Devendranath  Sen  seems  to  have 
influenced  him.  Das’s  feeling  was  genuine  and  strong,  and 
he  had  bitter  experience  of  life.  He  had  unmistakable 
talent.  All  this  made  his  poetry  sincere,  pungent  and  some- 
times compelling.  But  his  style  was  old  fashioned  and 
inadequate,  and  expression  was  not  always  artistic.  He 
belonged  to  East  Bengal  and  some  of  his  poems  breathe  the 
fragrance  of  his  native  land. 

Das’s  best  poems  were  collected  in  several  books  of 
poems  published  between  1887  and  1905,  viz.  Prem  O Phul 
(Love  and  Flower,  1887),  Kumkum  (1891),  Kastun  (1895), 
Candan  (1896),  Vaijayanti  (1905),  etc. 

Akshay  Kumar  Baral  (1865-1918)  was  a close  follower 
of  Biharilal  Chakravarti  but  his  poetry  does  not  show  the 
looseness  of  style  and  the  ecstatic  effervescence  of  sentiment 
of  his  master.  On  the  other  hand,  it  lacks  Chakravarti’s 
spontaneity.  Baral’s  inspiration  did  not  come  mainly  from 
the  spring  of  married  love  and  domesticity  as  in  Devendra- 
nath Sen’s  poetry,  but  it  transcended  the  four  walls  of  daily 
life.  Like  Govindachandra  Das,  Baral  was  essentially  an 
emotional  poet,  but  unlike  the  former  his  poetry  is  not  so 
much  passionate  as  intellectual  and  therefore  somewhat  less 
real.  The  influence  of  Rabindranath  Tagore’s  early  lyrics 
is  noticeable  in  some  of  Baral’s  poems  but  it  was  more  or 
less  imitation  and  did  not  go  very  deep.  Browning  was  one 
of  Baral’s  favourite  poets,  and  the  English  poet’s  influence 
has  left  its  stamp  on  the  style  of  the  Bengali  poet  and  also  in 
his  faith  in  the  ultimate  goodness  of  creation.  Economy  of 
expression  and  meticulousness  in  the  choice  of  words  are 
the  outstanding  characteristics  of  Baral’s  diction.  He  could 
not  do  away  with  parenthesis  completely. 

Baral’s  first  book  of  poems  Pradip  (The  Lamp)  was 


THE  ROMANTICS 


271 


published  in  1885  and  his  last  Esd  (The  Quest)  in  1912.  The 
last  is  in  memoriam  to  his  departed,  wife.  The  poet  has 
succeeded  here  in  translating  the  deep  sorrow  of  loss  and 
bereavement  into  an  impersonal  real  thing. 

This  blackness  in  the  foolish  heart — it  is  the  wisp  of 
smoke  in  the  blaze  of  the  fire  of  sacrifice  to  Thee — 
which,  consuming  the  narrowness  and  deficiency  is 
reaching  heaven! 

Although  they  do  not  belong  to  the  Romantic  group  the 
women  poets  of  the  period  may  be  briefly  discussed  here. 
Their  common  outlook  was  objectivity.  Girindramohini 
Dutt  (1854-1924)  wrote  much,  and  she  was  in  touch  with 
the  literary  atmosphere  of  the  Tagore  family.  Her  best 
pieces  are  the  short  poems  that  record  her  girlhood  remi- 
niscences of  village  life  and  her  impressions  of  Calcutta 
landscape.  Her  bibliography  includes  the  following  titles: 
Kavitahdr  (Garland  of  Poetry,  1873),  Bharat-kusum  (Flower 
of  India,  1882)  Asrukana  (A  Speck  of  Tears,  1887),  Abhas 
(1890),  Arghya  (1902),  etc. 

Swarna  Kumari  Devi,  the  novelist,  wrote  indifferent 
verse.  But  it  was  she  who  had  first  introduced  the  romantic 
ballad  in  Bengali,  four  of  which  are  compiled  in  Gatha 
(1890). 

Kamini  Ray  (1884-1933)  was  the  first  among  the  con- 
temporary women  poets  to  be  impressed  deeply  by  the  style 
of  Rabindranath  Tagore’s  poetry.  But  temperamentally  she 
belonged  to  the  classicists  rather  than  to  the  romantics. 
Her  poetry  is  objective  but  not  always  impersonal.  The 
woman’s  heart  of  the  poet  is  revealed  in  her  poetry  with  all 
the  characteristic  shyness  and  inhibition.  There  is  a running 
note  of  faint  regret  and  disappointment  but  she  is  never 
rebellious. 

Let  be,  my  dearest,  my  eternal  life  full  of  darkness, 
if  indeed  on  my  path  for  all  eternity  light  falls. 


272 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Mrs.  Ray’s  first  and  best  book  of  poems  Alo  O Chaya 
(Light  and  Shadow)  was  published  in  1889  with  an  intro- 
duction by  Hemchandra  Banerji  the  reigning  poet  of  the 
day.  Her  next  book  Malya  O Nirmalya  (Garland  and  Flower 
Offerings,  1913)  is  also  good.  It  contains  some  pieces  written 
in  her  early  life  (1880)  as  well  as  her  latest  (1913).  Tagore’s 
influence  became  more  effective  in  her  later  books  (1901-30). 

Dwijendralal  Ray  the  playright  will  be  remembered  by 
the  posterity  mainly  for  his  comic  songs.  He  wrote  quite 
a number  of  poems  collected  in  books  published  between 
1882  and  1912  ; viz.  Aryagatha  in  two  parts  (1882,  1893), 
Asadhe  (1898),  Mandra  (1902),  Alekhya  (1907)  and  Triveni 
(1912).  His  best  poems  are  characterized  by  a freedom  in 
style  and  metre  and  by  a light  mood.  But  they  generally 
suffer  from  a marked  want  of  sustained  effort  and  polish. 


22 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


In  stature,  stride  and  sweep  Rabindranath  Tagore  (1861-1941) 
is  an  all-round  creative  genius  the  like  of  whom  has  seldom 
been  seen,  if  at  all,  in  any  country.  His  poetry  shows  such 
finesse  in  form,  matter  and  feeling  as  was  otherwise  in- 
comprehensible in  our  language.  It  is  in  no  way  a sequence 
of  the  new  poetry  of  the  school  of  Michael  Madhusudan 
Dutt  nor  of  the  romantic  poetry  of  Biharilal  Chakravarti. 
It  was  all  his  own.  And  yet  he  was  rooted  in  the  soil  of  his 
land.  He  had  drunk  deep  from  the  mainsprings  of  Indian 
poetry:  rhp  natiyp  and  grand  but  certainly  not  primitive 
mysticism  of  the  Upanishadsy  the  delicate  t r acery. -oiLRa i i da sa 
and  the  emotional -music  of  the  Vaishnav  poets.  He  is  the 
most  Indian  nf  thp  Indian  _pqpts  as  well  as  the  most  universal. 
He  was  always  open  to  receive  from  every  quarter  and  from 
every  source — from  English  poetry  to  Bengali  nursery  rhyme, 
from  the  most  elaborate  classical  symphony  to  the  simplest 
rustic  tune.  But  whatever  he  received  he  made  his  own  ; 
he  was  incapable  of  imitation. 

Tagore  was  a very  well-read  man  and  he  had  keen 
interest  in  everything  human  having  a permanent  value. 
He  could  indeed  say  with  Terence:  Homo  sum  humani  nihil 
a me  alienum  puto  (‘I  am  a man,  nothing  human  can  be  alien 
to  me’).  But  he  is  never  exotic,  and  pedantry  in  any  form 
was  unknown  to  him.  Tagore’s  poetry  is  as  much  Bengali 
poetry  as  Indian,  and  much  of  it  is  as  much  Indian  as 
universal,  because  he  has  gone  to  the  deepest  where  the 
stream  of  eternal  life  flows,  the  ultimate  source  of  creation 
and  continuation  of  life  in  every  form.  Tagore’s  poetry  is 
universal  not  only  in  the  sense  that  the  essence  of  all  true 
poetry  is  universal  but  also  in  the  sense  that  the  notation  is 
universal  from  the  Indian  point  of  view. 

Tagore  passed  his  boyhood  days  at  home  but  he  periodi- 
cally felt  an  irresistible  urge  for  going  out,  far  and  near. 

18 


274 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


He  travelled  all  over  the  civilized  world,  and  was  received 
everywhere  with  warmth  and  spontaneous  welcome  ; he  was 
accorded  receptions  beyond  the  expectation  of  a foreign 
potentate.  He  produced  poetry  in  every  land,  wherever  he 
went.  But  he  always  liked  to  return  to  his  corner  at 
Santiniketan,  a tiny  settlement  in  a dreary  spot  in  West 
Bengal,  a hundred  miles  away  from  his  ancestral  home  in 
Calcutta  with  its  civilized  comforts. 

Tagore’s  personality  was  polyhedric  ; its  many  facets 
were  opposite  and  complementary,  not  merely  contradictory. 
He  was  a quiet  thinker  at  most  times  but  he  was  capable  of 
quick  decision  and  prompt  action  at  a moment’s  notice. 
Of  his  power  of  organization  and  long-term  planning  Visva- 
Bharatf  is  the  best  evidence. 

The  career  of  the  poet’s  soul  was  a continuous  game  of 
hide  and  seek,  idle  fancy  and  ceaseless  quest,  incubation  and 
fight,  contemplation  and  realization.  The  metaphor  of  the 
alternating  seasons  was  a favourite  device  in  Tagore  poetry  ; 
for  him  it  symbolized  the  universe  that  pulsates  in  alternative 
manifestation  and  disappearance,  the  nature  that  throbs 
between  night  and  day  and  between  life  and  death,  and  his 
own  destiny  swinging  between  the  known  and  the  unknown, 
between  the  realized  and  the  unrealized,  between  the  real 
and  the  unreal.  So  he  speaks  in  a song: 

The  dance-plays  of  Winter  and  Spring  pull  the  swing 
of  tears  and  smiles,  and  between  them  I shall  ever  carry 
the  salver  of  my  welcome  songs.  Is  it  thy  pleasure  and 
so  thou  hast  made  me  wear  the  chaplet  redolent  with 
the  perfume  of  music? 

It  is  perhaps  why  my  sleep  is  banished  ; the  barrage  of 
heart  has  given  way,  billows  of  a mad  wind  are  stirring 
the  woods  of  eternal  pain,  and  the  shadows  and  lights 
of  my  days  and  nights  throb.  Is  it  thy  pleasure  and  so 
thou  hast  made  me  wear  the  chaplet  redolent  with  the 
perfume  of  music? 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


275 


My  night’s  lodging  has  not  been  secured  ; my  day’s 
labour  is  intermittent ; in  my  service  of  no-duty  I get 
no  respite.  There  is,  alas,  no  peace  for  me  anywhere  in 
the  world,  and  my  lyre  sings  as  disturbance  strikes  it. 
The  blazes  of  my  life-consuming  songs  shall  burn  for 
ever.  Is  it  thy  pleasure  and  so  thou  hast  made  me  wear 
the  chaplet  redolent  with  the  perfume  of  music? 

Lovers  of  modern  European  poetry  should  note  that 
Tagore’s  attitude  towards  life  was  that  of  acceptance,  appre- 
ciation and  thankfulness  and  not  of  doubt,  fretting  and 
protest. 

Tagore  was  home-bred.  He  had  intermittent  schooling 
for  a very  few  years  in  Calcutta  where  his  family  had  been 
settled  for  more  than  a century,  and  for  about  a year  and 
some  months  in  London  But  he  had  been  given  at  home 
a solid  grounding  in  Bengali,  Sanskrit  and  English  as  well  as 
in  the  rudiments  of  science  including  anatomy.  He  was 
interested  in  music  from  childhood  and  had  received  training 
from  some  of  the  best  music  masters  of  the  day.  Wrestling 
was  an  item  of  his  daily  routine,  and  it  made  his  healthy 
physique  healthier.  Before  fifty  he  was  never  seriously  ill. 
In  a proper  estimation  of  his  poetry  this  fact  should  be  taken 
into  account.  Tagore’s  poetry  is  the  outcome  of  a very 
healthy  mind  in  an  uncommonly  healthy  and  handsome 
body/ 

It  was  fortunate  that  school  life  was  from  the  very 
beginning  extremely  distasteful  to  Tagore  and  he  could  not 
be  weaned  from  his  home  education.  The  atmosphere  of 
Tagore’s  home  was  charged  with  the  live  currents  of  cultural 
impulse,  absorbent  and  creative.  Devendrariath  Tagore’s 
fascination  for  the  doctrine  of  the  Upanishads,  his  outlook  of 
worshipful  universality,  his  strong  adherence  to  the  funda- 
mentals of  Indian  thought  and  culture  and  his  enthusiasm 
for  constructive  nationalism  had  made  his  home  the  centre 
of  cultural  revival  in  India.  This  gave  the  family  a dis- 


276 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


tinctiveness  which  was  manifest  in  all  they  did.  The  Tagores 
were  different.  Their  outlook  was  Indian  and  not  simply 
Bengali.  The  Tagores’  journal  was  Bharati  as  against 
Bahgadarsan  of  Chatterji. 

Devendranath  Tagore  was  the  eldest  son  of  a very  rich 
man,  but  he  had  forced  himself  to  live  like  a commoner  for 
years  rather  than  repudiate  his  father’s  commitments.  When 
Rabindranath  Tagore  was  born  the  family  fortune  had  been 
recovered  but  the  home  life  continued  on  a simple  scale. 
Young  Rabindranath  was  raised  like  an  ordinary  lower 
middle  class  boy  minus  the  amenities.  But  there  was  a vital 
difference.  Young  Tagore  did  not  have  the  social  contacts 
available  to  a boy  of  the  average  lower  middle  class  family 
of  Calcutta.  He  was  one  of  the  youngest  of  his  mother’s 
fourteen  issues,  and  his  mother  could  not  give  him  the 
attention  she  should  have  otherwise  given.  From  his  fourth 
or  fifth  year  he  was  put  in  the  care  of  servants.  In  his 
Reminiscences  Tagore  has  told  us  how  his  servant  in  charge 
would  keep  him  confined  in  a room,  and  how  he  would  be 
contemplating  for  hours  together  the  slice  of  the  landscape 
visible  from  -the  window  in  a first  floor  room  in  the  servants’ 
quarter,  and  how  his  childhood  fancies  would  ride  on  the 
clouds  and  run  with  the  wind.  The  meditative  mood  and 
the  unfettered  fancy  of  the  poet  to  be  were  made  up  here 
and  thus. 

Tagore  had  his  first  dose  of  literature  from  the  lips  of 
his  caretakers  and  of  some  elderly  members  of  the  family 
retinue.  They  would  read  the  poems  of  Krttivasa  and 
Kasiram  and  would  recite  alliterative  verses  from  Dasarathi 
Ray’s  poetry  or  they  would  sing  lines  from  songs  of  Madhu 
Kan.  The  pathos  of  the  Rama  story  told  by  Krttivasa,  the 
wonder  of  the  Mahabharata  tales  told  by  Kasiram,  the  jingle 
of  the  tripping  lines  of  Dasarathi’s  verse  and  the  sweet 
sentimentality  of  Madhu  Kan  made  the  first  impressions  on 
the  virgin  field  of  the  child’s  highly  imaginative  mind. 
The  next  literary  impression  was  made  by  the  recital  of 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


277 


Meghaduta  by  his  eldest  brother  Dwijendranath.  He  did 
not  know  anything  of  Sanskrit  yet,  but  the  music  of  Kalidasa’s 
verses  enthralled  him.  A few  years  later  when  he  read  the 
poem  in  the  original  he  was  doubly  impressed,  as  he  found 
in  it  an  unmistakable  echo  of  the  adventurous  fancy  of  his 
childhood  when  during  the  rainy  days  he  watched  the  clouds 
through  the  window  in  the  servants’  quarter. 

In  the  mean  time  the  boy  Tagore  had  scanned  all  by 
himself  the  metrically  intricate  songs  of  Jayadeva  and  had 
finished  the  readable  books  of  Bengali  prose  including  the 
novels  of  Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji  (some  of  which  were 
then  coming  out  serially  in  Bangadarsan ) and  the  Vaishnav 
lyric  poems  of  Candidasa  and  Vidyapati  which  had  been  just 
published.  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt’s  poetry  did  not 
impress  young  Tagore,  and  he  was  positively  hostile  to  Dutt’s 
Meghanadvadh,  as  his  critical  article  published  in  Bharatl 
proves.  The  reason  is  not  far  to  seek.  The  poem  was  a 
textbook  which  his  tutor  at  home,  a pundit,  had  inflicted 
on  him,  and  thus  had  left  a bitter  taste.  English  poetry  he 
read  with  profit  and  enjoyment  and  was  helped  therein  by 
Rajfrarayan  Bose  and  also  by  Akshaychandra  Chaudhuri  who 
was  a deep  lover  of  English  literature  and  a poet  himself.  Of 
the  contemporary  Bengali  poetry  young  Tagore  admired  his 
eldest  brother’s  Svapnaprayan  and  Biharilal  Chakravarti’s 
Vangasundan  and  Sdradamangal.  Tagore  was  a great 
admirer  of  Chakravarti  and  he  alone  was  responsible  for  the 
recognition  of  Chakravarti’s  poetry,  but  his  own  writings  do 
not  show  any  trace  of  its  influence.  On  the  other  hand, 
Dwijendranath’s  influence  went  deep  and  lay  submerged 
for  more  than  half  a century,  only  to  emerge  in  a mellow 
form — the  light  poems  and  children’s  verses  written  in  the 
last  few  years.  A close  study  of  the  epistolary  style  of 
Tagore  also  reveals  the  influence  of  his  eldest  brother’s 
literary  style. 

The  Tagore  family  was  the  fountainhead  of  the 
'national’  movement  that  went  hand  in  hand  with  the 


278 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


cultural  revival.  So  the  earliest  efforts  of  Tagore  juvenilia 
were  patriotic  and  the  model  of  these  poems  was  supplied 
by  Hemchandra  Banerji’s  poetry  (particularly  his  Bharat- 
sahgit).  Tagore  had  his  first  real  outing  away  from  Calcutta 
when  at  the  age  of  twelve  he  was  taken  by  his  father  on  a 
long  tour  up  to  the  Himalayan  Punjab.  As  a result  the 
Himalayas,  featured  in  his  early  juvenile_p_oems  (1873-75) 
which  are  mainly  romantic  narratives  of  disappointed  love. 
These  poems  show  the  influence  of  the  poets,  Indian  and 
English,  that  he  was  then  reading  and  admiring. 

A more  permanent  result  was  obtained  when  the  young 
aspirant  to  poetic  fame  took  to  imitating  Vaishnav  lyrics, 
specially  the  songs  of  Vidyapati,  after  the  manner  of  Thomas 
Chatterton  in  his  Rowley  Poems.  The  poems  (or  rather 
songs,  as - most  of  them  were  set  to  music)  bear,  "after  the 
manner  of— the- Vaixh nav  poets , the  signature  of  the  poet  in 
the  last  couplet  and  Tagore  signed  himself  as  ‘Bhanu-Simha’ 
or  simply  ‘Bhanu’.1  Appearing  for  the  first  time  in  Bharatl 
(1877  et  seq.)  the  ‘Bhanu-Simha’  poems  created  a stir  in  the 
literary  world  as  they  were  then  believed  to  have  been 
recovered  from  an  old  manuscript  of  a forgotten  Vaishnav 
poet.  Naturally  Tagore  did  not  think  much  of  these  poems, 
but  it  must  be  admitted  that  they  show  a command  of 
the  form  of  Vaishnav  poetry  rarely  noticeable  after  the 
seventeenth  century.  This  apparent  maturity  in  the  im- 
mature young  poet  came  from  his  metrical  exercises  on 
Jayadeva  and  his  close  and  critical  study  of  the  poems  of 
Vidyapati  and  Govindadas. 

Tagore’s  second  elder  brother  Satyendranath,  the  first 
Indian  civilian,  took  him  to  Ahmedabad  and  then  sent  him 
with  his  own  family  to  England  in  September  1878.  It  was 
expect edAhar  TagoT<r"Vf)uTd^quarify  himself  for  the  Bar. 
But  that  was  not  to  be.  A classroom  was  something  worse 


1 ‘Bhanu’  is  a synonym  of  ‘Ravi’  (the  sun)  the  first  word  in  his  name 
and  ‘Simha’  stands  for  the  surname  Tagore  (perhaps  as  an  echo  of 
‘Siva-simha’  in  Vidyapati’s  poetry). 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


279 


than  prison  cell  to  him  even  in  the  free  set-up  of  a foreign 
land,  and  he  returned  in  February  1880  without  adding  any- 
thing to  his  qualifications.  But  the  sojourn  had  not  been 
fruitless.  He  met  some  people  whose  sympathy  and  character 
imparted  warmth  TO  his  soul  and  helped  him  to  overcome 
his  diffidence  and  shyness.  His  brief  attendance  at  the 
lectures  oF  Professor  Henry  Motley  in  the  University 
College,  London  stimulated  him. 

When  he  was  still  in  England  his  poetry  began  to  ring — 
though  hesitatingly — a personal  note,  the  true  ring  of  lyric 
poetry.  After  his  return  this  note  became  insistent.  In 
Sandhya-sangit  (The  Evening  Song,  1882),  despite  its  im- 
maturity and  nebulousness,  Tagore  emerged  as  a poet  not 
fully  understood  but  definitely  distinguished  by  an  originality 
that  baffled  affiliation  to  any  poet  known  to  the  critics  of  the 
day.  The  subject  matter  was  amorphous  ; it  echoed  only 
the  frustrations  and  frettings  of  the  young  poet’s  heart  against 
himself  for  not  being  acceptable  to  the  world  and  against  the 
world  for  not  being  acceptable  to  him.  Like  a silkworm  the 
poet  was  enmeshed  in  his  emotional  actions  and  reactions. 
But  this  dismal  phase  of  emotional  gloom  was  more  a mood 
of  adolescence  than  anything  else  and  it  passed  off,  as  we 
see  in  the  next  book  of  poems,  Prabhdt-sangit  (The  Morning 
Song,  1883).  The  world  now  appeared  to  the  poet  as  bathed 
in  the  glory  of  sunshine.  The  sights  and  sounds  of  the  busy 
world  from  which  he  was  so  long  banished  appeared  fresh 
and  delightful  to  his  avid  eyes. 

I wish  for  nothing  but  to  stay  looking  on  the  world, 

astounded,  forgetting  myself,  and  speak  not  a syllable. 

The  next  book  of  poems,  Chabi  O Gan  (Pictures  and 
Songs,  1884)  includes  some  poems  and  songs  written  earlier. 
Two  poems,  however,  are  very  remarkable:  Rahur  Prem 
(The  Love  of  Eclipse  the  Demon)  and  Arta-svar  (A  Cry  in 
Agony).  In  the  former,  love’s  great  hunger  has  found 
passionate  expression  ; and  in  the  latter  the  agony  of 


280 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


emotional  urge  is  transformed  into  the  turbulence  of  a dark 
and  stormy  night.  The  rainy  season  has  a very  special 
significance  in  the  poetry  of  Tagore,  and  its  first  recognition 
appears  in  more  than  one  poem  in  Chabi  O Gan.  The 
blazing  noontide  is  another  significant  phenomenon,  and 
this  too  first  emerges  here. 

In  between  the  poems  of  Chabi  O Gan  and  the  poems 
of  the  next  book  of  verse  Kadi  O Komal  (Sharps  and  Flats, 
1886)  the  poet’s  soul  has  passed  through  purgatory,  as  it  were, 
for  a very  dear  friend  who  had  stirred  the  hidden  depths  of 
his  emotional  being  and  had  called  forth  the  best  in  his 
poetry  suddenly  died,  leaving  an  unnegotiable  abyss  in  the 
heart  of  the  young  poet.  The  blow  was  stunning  but  it  was 
needed  for  the  development  of  his  poetry.  It  shattered  the 
sentimental  make-believe  of  the  young  poet’s  self-centred 
fancy  and  helped  him  to  gain  a mental  poise  and  an  emo- 
tional centre~of  gravity.  The  sorrow  that  was  only  a personal 
bereavement  became  the  symbolic  bond  of  a spiritual  union 
and  it  acted  as  the  master  key  that  opened  up  all  the  gates  of 
perception,  imagination,  sympathy  and  revelation.  The  very 
important  symbolic  value  of  death  in  Tagore’s  poetry  has  its 
genesis  here.  The  immediate  effect  of  this  bereavement  was 
to  make  the  poet  more  artistically  conscious  of  his  writings. 
This  resulted  in  a mellowness  in  the  poet’s  mood,  in 
a freer  appreciation  of  beauty,  in  a wider  outlook  on  life 
and  in  a carefully  mellifluent  diction  and  metrical 
precision.  Maturity  was  arriving  at  the  first  stage  of  Tagore’s 
poetic  art. 

Kadi  O Komal  includes  some  of  the  best  specimens  of 
Tagore’s  passionate  love  poems.  But  the  urge  of  the  flesh 
has  no  permanent  hold  on  the  poet’s  passion. 

This  infatuation  persists  for  how  few  days  ; this  illusion 
dissolves,  and  nothing  can  keep  the  heart  fast  bound. 
The  clasp  of  the  soft  arms  is  loosened,  and  the  dreamy 
eyes  no  longer  stimulate  intoxication.  One  knows  not 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


281 


the  other  on  a dark  night ; when  the  flowering  days  are 
over  birds  do  not  sing. 

The  poems  of  Manasi  (The  Desired  She,  1890)  reveal 
a clear  maturity  in  Tagore’s  poetry.  The  period  of  musi- 
cal ity  extending  from  ‘The  Evening  Song’  to  ‘The  Sharps 
and  Flats’  is  over.  The  poet  is  now  faced  with  a clash 
between  the  ideas  and  the  ideals.  From  this  viewpoint  the 
most  typical  and  also  the  most  distinguished  poem — not  only 
for  the  content  but  for  the  rugged,  uneven  and  unrhymed 
verse  too — is  Nisphal  Kamaria  (The  Hopeless  Desire). 

The  immortality  that  was  latent  in  you,  where  is  it  now? 
As  in  the  darkening  sky  of  an  evening  and  among  the 
isolated  stars  throbs  the  boundless  secret  of  heaven’s 
light,  so  does  tremble  the  flame  of  the  secret  of  the 
soul  in  your  eyes,  under  the  depth  of  their  compact 
darkness. 

Some  of  the  poems  are  bright  portraits  of  life  and  nature. 
An  instance  of  landscape  pen-painting: 

The  day  is  at  an  end  but  the  afternoon  lingers.  At  the 
end  of  the  day  the  sun  looks  tired  but  does  not  like  to 
take  leave  yet ; he  stays  looking  on  at  the  earth  and 
would  not  say  goodbye.  The  day  entangles  itself  in  the 
stray  clouds  overhead  ; it  lies  scattered  over  the  fields, 
it  quivers  on  the  waters  of  the  river,  it  stands  still, 
casting  long  shadows  on  the  side  of  the  tank  and  in  the 
trek. 

Some  of  the  poems  of  Manasi  register  the  poet’s  dis- 
illusionment with  some  of  our  leaders  of  thought  whom  he 
had  once  admired.  The  dogmatic  sentimentalism  of  the 
neo-Hindu  revival  invoked  bitter  sarcasm  from  his  pen. 
The  narrow  and  complacent  life  and  outlook  of  the  average 
city-dweller  pained  the  poet  whose  vision  sought  light  and 
boundless  life.  Tagore’s  reaction  to  their  smugness  is  vocal 


282 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


in  one  of  his  most  pungent  and  impassioned  poems,  Duranta 
Asa  (The  Boundless  Desire).  These  poems  were  written  at 
Ghazipore  400  miles  up  the  Ganga  from  Calcutta. 

Just  before  the  publication  of  Manasi,  Tagore  had  made 
a very  short  trip  to  England  via  France  (August-October 
1890).  A few  months  after  his  return  he  was  placed  in 
charge  of  the  management  of  the  family  estate  comprising 
extensive  property  in  north  central  Bengal  and  in  Orissa. 
Tagore  had  now  to  pass  most  of  his  days  either  in  the 
manager’s  quarters  at  Silaidah,  Sajadpur  and  other  stations 
in  the  districts  of  Nadia  and  Pabna  or  on  the  boat  in  the 
rivers  that  flowed  by  those  stations.  This  prolonged  and 
intimate  acquaintance  (1891-97)  with  the  riverine  and  rural 
life  of  Bengal  brought  the  poet  face  to  face  with  nature  and 
man,  and  had  a deep  and  wholesome  influence  on  his  work. 
The  early  poems  of  this  period  collected  in  Sonar  Tan  (The 
Golden  Boat,  1893)  reflect  the  poet’s  impression  of  his  first 
close  contact  with  nature  and  appreciation  of  impersonal  life. 
The  name  ‘Golden  Boat’  is  significant.  The  elusive  ‘Desired 
She’  could  be  pursued  only  in  a Golden  Boat. 

No  less  remarkable  is  the  poet’s  observation  and  under- 
standing of  humanity  in  the  poems  in  Sonar  Tari  as  well  as 
in  the  contemporary  short  stories  which  show  with  surprising 
vigour  and  brilliance  an  understanding  of  life  that  is  simple 
and  poignant,  fundamental  and  individual.  The  language 
of  the  poems  is  soft  and  simple,  and  what  splendour  is  absent 
in  the  poetry  is  present  in  the  prose.  Allegory  and  the  touch 
of  the  fairy  tale  in  some  poems  indicate  the  relation  they 
bear  to  the  short  stories,  the  genesis  of  which  is  referred  to 
in  the  following  lines  from  the  poem  Varsa-yapan  (Passing 
the  Rainy  Months): 

Hundreds  and  hundreds  of  talks  that  could  never  be 
finished  here,  and  all  the  buds  that  had  withered  before 
they  could  blossom,  the  lives  unknown,  the  dust  of 
unsung  greatness — so  many  burdens,  so  much  fear,  so 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


283 


many  mistakes  are  falling  down  day  and  night  all  around 
in  the  world,  like  the  dribbles  of  the  rains  ; tears  and 
laughters  of  the  moment  fall  off  in  profusion,  and  I ever 
hear  their  rustling. 


In  the  characteristic  poems  of  Sonar  Tan,  viz.  Yete  Ndhi 
Diba  (I  Won’t  Let  You  Go),  Samudrer  Prati  (To  the  Sea), 
and  Vasundhara  (Earth  The  Treasureholcl)  the  poet  realizes 
through  his  own  emotion  the  momentary  life  that  is  flowing 
on  unceasingly  and  eternally  with  a longing  and  lingering 
look  behincT  The  cry  of  his  infant  daughter,  ‘I  won’t  let  you 
go’,  when  he  was  leaving  home,  echoed  through  time  and 
space.  It  was  the  heart-breaking  cry  of  Mother  Earth  for  the 
sparks  of  life  in  her  lap,  which  she  cannot  hold  for  long. 


It  was  as  if  the  flute  of  Eternity  was  sobbing  in  a rustic 
note  in  the  barren  wilderness  of  the  universe,  and  it 
made  the  Earth  sad  and  sit  up  with  her  tresses 
dishevelled  in  the  far-flung  cornfields,  on  the  banks  of 
the  Ganga,  a sun-bright  golden  scarf  drawn  over  her 
person,  her  unmoving  eyes  fixed  on  the  far-off  blue 
horizon,  speechless.  I saw  that  sorrowful  sweet  face  of 
hers— standing  close  to  the  door-jamb,  quiet  and  cut 
to  the  quick,  like  my  daughter  four  years  old. 


In  Vasundhara  the  poet  delves  deep.  He  feels  in  his 
heart-beats  the  primitive  impulse  of  creative  evolution  and 
is  vaguely  conscious  of  his  identity  with  the  soul  of  the 
universe  transcending  time  and  space.  It  is  a novel  synthesis 
between  the  ancient  Indian  conception  of  pantheism  ( brahma - 
vdda)  and  the  modern  scientific  theory  of  biological  evolution. 
The  whole  poem  breathes  Tagore’s  intense  love  for  the 
earth — the  sights,  sounds,  smells,  feelings,  and  emotions  of 
life  and  nature  against  a shifting  background  of  growth  and 
decay. 


My  earth  thou  art,  for  millions  of  years.  In  the  dusL 
thou  hast  kept  me  hidden,  and  in  the  infinite  space, 


284 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


with  untired  steps  thou  hast  turned  round  and  round 
the  orb  of  the  sun,  ...  so  now  on  a day,  sitting  alone 
and  vacant,  on  the  bank  of  the  Padma,  my  enchanted 
eyes  looking  on,  I sense  through  all  my  limbs  and  in  all 
my  mind  how,  deep  in  the  crust,  the  tiny  shoot  of  grass 
is  shivering  and  shooting  up. 

The  most  significant  are  the  first  poem  and  the  last. 
The  first  poem  which  lends  its  title  to  the  book  and  which 
is  one  of  the  simplest  but  most  variously  interpreted  poems 
of  Tagore,  contains  a magnificent  picture  of  the  early  rains 
on  the  banks  of  the  Padma,  a picture  where  sound  and  sight 
synchronize  perfectly.  The  allegory  is  slight  but  significant. 
The  larger  and  truer  life  of  man  is  that  which  links  him  to 
the  stream  (that  is,  succession)  of  life  which  has  created  the 
world  for  him,  and  it  is  the  immortal  part  of  the  individual. 
That  part  of  the  individual  which  has  no  significance  for  the 
larger  life  is  his  own  personality  which  has  no  permanence. 
Before  he  starts  on  the  quest  of  the  ideal  the  poet  prepares 
himself  for  the  loss  of  much  of  his  valuable  gatherings  for 
which  there  was  no  room  in  the  Golden  Boat  of  time.  In 
the  last  poem,  Niruddes  Yatra  (Voyage  for  the  Unknown), 
the  ‘Desired  She’  has  mysteriously  taken  charge  of  the  Boat 
which  was  sailing  westward  to  an  unknown  destination. 

The  last  poem  of  Sonar  T an  rings  a note  which 
becomes  dominant  in  the  next  book  Citra  (The  Wondrous 
She,  1896).  The  vague  role  of  ‘Desired  She’  as  the  Boatman 
is  changed  for  the  permanent  one  as  the  Queen  Goddess 
of  the  poet’s  destiny  or  as  Vita  Regina  who  regulates  the 
poet’s  thoughts  and  impulses  and  guides  him  in  the  course 
of  the  fulfilment  of  his  destiny.  This  Mistress  of  Destiny 
is  conceived  in  some  poems  as  the  Lord  of  Life  accepting 
the  homage  of -tdie-poet_’.s..best  efforts  and  in  some  others  as 
the  Guide  of  Destiny  that  pilots  him  through  the  tangled 
and  zigzag  course  of  life. 

The  sense  of  repose  and  the  calm  perception  of  the 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


285 


beauties  of  nature  and  simplicity  of  happiness  distinguish 
such  poems  as  Sukh  (Happiness),  Jyotsna-ratre  (On  a Moon- 
lit Night)  and  other  poems  in  Citra.  But  even  a poet’s 
life  is  not  all  peace  and  sweet  repose.  All  around  there  is 
death  and  decay,  distress  and  despair,  poverty  and  disease, 
cruelty  and  injustice.  The  poet  now  realizes  that  a call 
has  come  to  tread  the  path  that  runs  through  all  that,  and 
he  must  not  be  remiss.  The  call  is  from  the  Destiny 
of  Man.  So  he  says  in  Ebar  Phirao  More  (Turn  Me  Round 
Now): 

Who  is  He?  I know  not.  I recognize  Him  not,  but  I 
know  only  this  much  that  for  Him,  under  the  pall  of 
the  darkness  of  night,  the  pilgrimage  of  humanity  is  on 
the  move  from  eternity  to  eternity,  despite  storm,  stress 
and  thunder,  carefully  guarding  the  tiny  flame  of  the 
torch  of  the  soul.  I know  only  this:  whoever  hears 
unmistakably  His  song  of  call,  he  runs  fearlessly  into 
the  vortex  of  danger,  he  discards  his  all,  and  bares  his 
bosom  before  torture  ; the  roar  of  death  he  hears  as 
music.  He  is  burnt  alive  in  fire,  he  is  impaled  on  the 
stake,  he  is  hacked  by  the  axe  ; all  that  is  dear  to  him 
he  makes  fuel,  and  without  hesitation,  lights  a sacrificial 
fire  that  burns  as  long  as  he  lasts  and  all  this  for  Him 
alone  ; tearing  off  his  heart  and  making  it  an  offering 
as  if  of  a red  lotus,  he  lays  it  with  deep  devotion  and 
for  the  last  time  as  the  final  oblation  to  Him  ; and  so 
he  makes  his  life  complete  in  death. 

In  Urvasi,  one  of  his  best  known  poems,  Tagore  handles 
a theme  which  is  perhaps  the  only  common  theme  appearing 
in  the  most  important  epochs  in  the  history  of  Indian 
literature.  The  Rigveda  has  one  of  its  best  hymns  on  the 
divine  damsel  and  her  mortal  lover.  The  same  story  occurs 
in  Satapatha  Brahmana,  a later  Vedic. prose  work,  as  well  as 
in  the  popular  epic  Mahabharata.  Kalidasa  wrrote  a play  on 
the  topic.  The  Vedic  poem  reveals  a passionate  lover  trying 


286 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


to  hold  back  the  damsel  who  was  leaving  him  as  her  passion 
had  apparently  cooled  off.  The  Vedic  prose  story  fills  out 
the  canvas  but  misses  the  fire  of  the  old  poem,  and  it 
presents  the  celestial  girl  as  a courtesan,  a decoy.  The  poet 
of  Mahabharata  makes  out  an  elaborate  history  of  Urvasi, 
from  her  genesis  and  up  to  the  time  of  the  Pandavas,  and 
here  she  is  no  better  than  an  oversexed,  unattached  woman. 
But  Kalidasa,  on  the  Other  hand,  makes  a good  love-story 
out  of  the  Vedic  legend,  and  in  his  play  the  lovers  behave 
as  normal  man  and  woman.  In  Tagore’s  poem  Urvasi 
(literally  ‘the  woman  of  boundless  desire’)  is  the  symbol  of 
primal  desire  which  is  the  creative  impulse  in  nature  and 
in  man,  the  impulse  that  makes  man  thirst  for  beauty  and 
to  create  it.  The  aching  desire  of  man  for  the  perfect 
woman  and  the  supreme  beauty,  which  makes  him  vaguely 
restless,  is  clothed  by  Tagore  in  the  merest  outline  of  the 
epic  story  and  worked  into  a poem  that  has  the  compact 
smoothness  and  chiselled  finish  of  a Grecian  marble. 

The  poem  next  to  Urvasi,  Svarga  Haite  Biday  (Fare- 
well to  Heaven),  was  written  on  the  very  next  day  (24 
Agrahayan  1302).  It  is  the  other  aspect  of  womanhood, 
symbolic  of  love  and  goodness.  It  is  a hymn  to  woman  who 
mothers  the  mortal  life  by  submitting  herself  to  patient 
drudgery  and  loving  care.  In  contrast  Urvasi  is  a nymph 
who  tempts  but  offers  no  lasting  satisfaction  or  solace. 

The  last  poem  of  Citra,  Sindhu  Pare  (Beyond  the  Sea) 
is  a magnificent  blend  of  allegory,  romance  and  mysticism. 
The  quest  of  the  soul  ends  when  the  Golden  Boat  reaches 
the  other  end  of  the  sea,  and  the  mysterious  guide,  the 
Desired  She,  reveals  herself  as  his  elusive  love  and  welcomes 
him. 

The  poems  of  Caitaii  (The  Crop  of  the  Year’s  End,  1896) 
were  written  in  course  of  four  months  immediately  after  the 
publication  of  Citra.,  They  breathe  the  peace  of  joyous 
release  of  the  poet’s  soul  from  the  strain  of  the  quest, 
receiving  solace  from  contemplation  of  Nature,  the  poet’s 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


287 


lirst  and  last  love.  Tagore  felt  as  the  poet  of  the  Upanishads 
had  felt  some  three  thousand  years  ago  when  he  sang: 

Blessed  I am  as  I see  the  light  of  heaven. 

Blessed  I am  that  I am  in  love  with  the  world. 

Tagore’s  feeling  was  not  the  mystic  experience  of  the  Vedic ' 
poet  that  saw  everything  in  the  scale  of  eternity.  Tagore’s 
joyousness  is  derived  from  the  impermanence  of  the  pheno- 
menal world,  from  a chance  contemplation  of  the  momen- 
tary patterns  of  life  and  nature. 

Tagore’s  poetic  diction  always  alternated  periodically 
between  the  ornate  and  the  simple.  The  hard  texture  of 
Alanasi  is  absent  in  Sonar  "fan,  and  the  criss-cross  pattern 
of  Citra  has  dissolved  into  the  simple  and  bold  lines  of 
Caitali.  (In  later  books  also  this  alternation  is  sustained — 
from  Kalpana  to  Ksanika  and  from  Naivedya  to  Kheya.)  In 
the  sonnets  of  Caitali  we  notice  that  the  poet  was  feeling 
the  stress  of  the  responsibility  of  the  management  of  the 
joint  family  estate,  was  receiving  recompense  from  Nature, 
dumb  and  vocal,  and  was  seeking  relief  in  the  ideal  of 
austere  simplicity  of  ancient  India. 

Kalidasa’s  poetry  had  now  a fresh  appeal  for  him.  But 
the  life  around  him  was  far  from  neglected.  Deeper  was 
his  appreciation  of  the  unique  value  of  the  humblest  being 
his  eyes  encountered.  On  the  eve  of  his  departure  from 
Sajadpur — which  the  poet  did  not  then  know  would  be  for 
the  last  time  as  the  master  of  the  local  tenancy — his  romantic 
fancy  is  set  on  the  future  career  of  a small  west  country 
servant  girl  busy  with  her  menial  duties,  whom  he  often 
noticed  from  the  porthole  of  his  boat.  So  he  writes  in  the 
poem  Ananta  Pathe  (On  the  Unending  Path): 

Seated  by  the  window  I see  her  every  day,  a small  girl, 
not  in  play,  not  vivacious,  quiet  and  dutiful.  With 
untarrying  steps  she  plies  her  daily  duties.  With  my 
heart  heavy  with  tears  I look  at  her  and  smile  in  affec- 


288 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


tion  and  sympathy.  Today  my  boat  would  be  weighing 
anchor  and  1 shall  go  away.  The  girl  too  would  go 
some  day  when  her  term  of  service  is  over,  to  her  own 
land.  She  does  not  know  me,  nor  do  I know  her. 
But  I would  like  to  see  where  she,  following  the  thread 
of  her  life,  would  come  to  the  end.  In  an  unknown 
village  in  some  far  off  land  she  would  come  as  a bride 
to  an  unknown  home,  and  then  she  would  become  a 
mother,  and  then  all  would  be  over.  Beyond  that,  alas, 
who  knows  where  the  path  of  that  girl  leads  to. 

A didactic  note  appears  in  some  poems  in  Caitali, 
especially  in  two  small  epigrammatic  poems.  A book  of 
such  poems,  Kanika  (Split  Grains),  came  out  in  November 
1899.  In  his  later  days  Tagore  had  to  write  hundreds  of 
such  small  poems  and  couplets  to  meet  the  heavy  demand 
for  his  autograph  writing.  A small  collection  of  such  auto- 
graph couplets  in  Bengali  and  English  was  block-printed  in 
Budapest  in  the  poet’s  autograph  and  published  under  the 
name  Lekhan  (Scribblings,  1926).  These  couplets  contain 
brilliant  imagery  couched  in  terse  and  sparkling  expression 
and  have  the  rare  beauty  of  Chinese  miniature  printing. 
To  quote  examples  from  Tagore’s  original  English: 

The  departing  night’s  one  kiss  on  the  closed  eyes  of 
morning  glows  in  the  star  of  dawn. 

The  freedom  of  the  wind  and  the  bondage  of  the  stem 
join  hands  in  the  dance  of  swaying  branches. 

The  poet  now  picked  up  from  old  literature  and  history 
some  noble  incidents  of  self-sacrifice  and  other  heroic  epi- 
sodes and  embodied  them  in  narrative  verse.  This  mood 
synchronized  with  the  new  nationalistic  movement  that 
primarily  advocated  self-sacrifice  in  the  cause  of  indepen- 
dence. Kathd  (1900)  is  a collection  of  such  tales  admirably 
told.  Kdhini  (1900)  contains  stories  told  more  elaborately 
and  dramatically.  These  two  books  of  poems  became  very 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


289 


popular  as  they  were  fully  intelligible  to  the  general  reader 
and  their  contents  were  universally  enjoyable.  (Tagore’s 
poetry  was  always  so  much  in  advance  that  it  required 
years  for  the  appearance  of  fully  comprehending  readers.) 
Gandharir  Avedan  (Gandhari’s  Appeal)  and  Karna-Kunti 
Sarnvad  (Dialogue  between  Kama  and  Kunti)  present  three 
important  personalities  of  the  Mahabharata  in  a new  and 
more  graceful  light.  Through  such  poems  as  Srestha  Bhiksd 
(Highest  Sacrifice),  Pujarini  (The  Worshipper)  and  Abhisar 
(Tryst)  Tagore  drew  attention  to  the  greatness  and  the 
dramatic  value  of  the  anecdotes  from  Buddhistic  literature. 
He  also  brought  to  the  limelight  of  popular  regard  incidents 
from  Maratha  and  Sikh  history.  Such  tales  of  Tagore  as 
well  as  his  patriotic  songs  which  were  presently  to  come  in 
a spate  went  a long  way  in  furthering  the  independence 
movement  in  the  country. 

Now  came  a swing  back  to  the  colourfulness  of  poetic 
fancy  as  we  find  in  the  poems  of  Kalpana  (Fancy,  1900). 
A staid  and  majestic  beat  of  the  rhythm  pulsates  in  the 
typical  poems  of  the  book.  In  Vaisakh  the  blazing  noontime 
of  a hot  summer  day  in  the  barren  and  parched  expanse 
of  Santiniketan  is  imagined  as  a lean  and  hungry  yogi 
practising  austerity. 

In  the  poems  of  Ksanika  (The  Momentary  She,  1900) 
which  immediately  followed  Kalpana,  Tagore’s  poetry 
reached  a peak.  There  is  an  informal  unity  of  form  and 
content  which  was  not  seen  in  the  other  books  of  his  poetry 
except  perhaps  Caitall.  This  is  mainly  accounted  for  by  the 
fact  that  its  sixty  and  odd  poems  were  written  in  the  course 
of  a couple  of  months  (May-June,  1900).  The  diction  is 
wonderfully  simple,  the  metre  extraordinarily  light  and  the 
mood  flippantly  provocative.  But  a veiled  seriousness  and 
emotional  realism  have  given  the  poems  of  Ksanika  a tone 
and  depth  that  is  beyond  the  reach  of  serious  and  traditional 
poetry.  Shorn  of  all  its  trappings  and  the  folds  of  coverings 
the  heart  of  the  poet  is  laid  open  in  these  poems,  throbbing 

19 


290 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


in  joie  de  vivre.  The  underlying  meaning  of  the  poems  of 
Ksanika  is  the  fundamental  motive  of  lyric  poetry.  It  is  the 
capturing  of  the  fleeting  moment  in  its  elusive  trail  of  joy 
and  sorrow,  to  transform  its  experience  into  impersonal 
memorability.  The  keynote  of  Ksanika  is  struck  unequi- 
vocally in  the  poem  Ses  (Finality).  Life  is  flowing  away  in 
the  stream  of  time,  and  to  make  the  best  of  it  is  to  run 
downstream  ; to  prolong  the  moment,  be  it  of  joy  or  of 
sorrow,  is  to  lose  much  fun,  and  to  run  against  time  is 
foolishness. 

To  comprehend  a thing  thoroughly  from  beginning  to 
end,  to  know  everything  around  us,  there  is  but  a 
moment  to  spare.  The  world  is  a threadbare  illusion 
— before  one  has  time  to  realize  it  the  night,  life, 
gathers  up  all  its  dreams  and  departs.  We  are  on  a holi- 
day only  for  a couple  of  days,  but  enough  for  love.  Had 
life  been  for  work  it  would  have  been  a long  life.  We 
shall  not  stay  on  here,  my  dear  ; none  of  us  will  stay 
on  for  long  and  nothing  shall  remain  as  it  is.  With  this 
happy  knowledge  let  us  push  forward  following  the 
trail  of  Time. 

The  love  poems  have  the  colourfulness  and  the  lightness 
of  butterflies’  wings  and  the  inconsequence  of  moments 
of  life  of  uninhibited  movement.  The  poet  is  a light- 
hearted wayfarer  with  no  destination  to  hurry  forward  to, 
no  difficulty  to  negotiate. 

On  the  bosom  of  the  lake  flash  the  sparkles  of  diamonds 
and  emeralds.  In  the  mustard  fields  bees  hum  in 
intoxication.  This  path  passes  by  so  many  villages, 
winding  under  the  shade  of  so  many  trees,  touching 
the  fringes  of  so  many  fields  and  so  many  woods.  I 
stop  here  for  no  reason. 

But  there  is  a deep  purposefulness  behind  the  aimless 
wanderings  of  the  wayfarer.  He  is  in  love  with  life  and  he 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


291 


is  at  considerable  pains  to  keep  it  hidden  from  the  rude 
eyes  of  the  outside  world. 

I tell  nobody  that  on  mornings  and  evenings,  out  on 
thy  way  and  hugging  the  flute  close  to  my  heart,  I 
come  with  no  purpose  and  walk  about  in  disguise.  1 
sing  the  song  that  comes  to  me  on  the  spot,  adding  so 
many  tunes  and  making  it  melodious  ; but  one  song  I 
keep  for  myself.  At  all  other  faces  I raise  my  eyes 
and  look — but  I look  up  at  thee  only  in  dreams. 

From  the  contemplation  of  Ksanika  the  poet  comes  out, 
in  Naivedya  (Offerings,  1901),  to  the  surging  battle-field  of 
life,  and  feels  the  majestic  presence  of  the  Passive  Force 
that  controls  the  life  of  man  and  the  destiny  of  the  universe. 
In  the  close-knit  and  sculptured  sonnets  of  Naivedya  one 
can  feel  the  heart-beats  of  the  poet  impelled  to  momentous 
activity.  It  was  perhaps  the  destiny  of  the  country  that 
was  knocking  at  the  poet’s  heart  to  wake  it  up  to  strenuous 
and  magnificent  effort.  The  shameful  backwardness  of  the 
country,  its  placid  stupidity  and  profound  unreason  were 
gnawing  at  his  heart ; his  condemnation  was  scathing  and 
his  call  stirring: 

This  death  must  be  crossed  over — this  mesh  of  fear, 
this  rubbish  of  inert  mass  heaped  mountain  high,  dead 
junk.  Oh!  wake  up  you  must  on  this  glorious  morning, 
in  this  stirring  world,  in  this  world  of  action. 

Men  have  no  living  faith,  only  conventionality  or 
superstition,  but  following  the  western  way  is  mere  snobbery. 
The  Boer  War  revealed  to  the  poet  the  rottenness  of  the 
modern  European  world: 

Civilization,  the  cruel  dragon,  has  in  a split  moment, 
lifted  up  her  dreadful  hood  and  charged  her  hidden 
fangs  with  deadly  venon. 

Under  the  guise  of  patriotism  a stupendous  wrong 
would  sweep  away  right  by  the  flood  of  might. 


292 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


The  poet  envisages  a glorious  image  of  India  as  a 
nation  about  to  rise  from  the  stupor  of  ignorance  and 
inactivity. 

In  December,  1901  Tagore  started  his  ‘Brahmacarya’ 
school  at  Santiniketan,  which  in  a way  was  an  expression  of 
the  urge  vocal  in  Naivedya,  and  which  was  also  a vicarious 
consolation  for  his  not  having  a proper  schooling  in  his 
boyhood. 

His  wife  died  in  November,  1902.  In  her  memory  he 
wrote  the  poems  collected  under  the  name  Smaran  (Re- 
membrance, 1903).  A deep  sense  of  understanding  runs 
through  these  poems  of  tender  pathos  and  grateful  remem- 
brance. The  personal  loss  appears  as  an  emotional  gain. 

That  we  two  could  exchange  our  last  words,  such  a 
chance  did  not  come  to  you.  Bearing  the  sorrow  of 
that  speechless  adieu  I have  searched  everywhere  in 
vain  expectation.  Today  underneath  all  the  thoughts 
of  this  heart  your  speech  and  mine  mingle  together. 

The  poet  felt  deeply  the  mute  sorrow  of  his  two 
younger  children  who  had  just  lost  their  mother  and  the 
reaction  of  this  emotion  was  the  opening  of  a new  spring 
of  poetic  inspiration.  The  poems  of  Sisu  (The  Child,  1903) 
reveal  an  unfathomed  depth  in  perhaps  the  most  primitive 
and  undoubtedly  the  most  fundamental  emotion  of  huma- 
nity— love  for  the  child.  The  elusive  gracefulness  of  the 
child,  its  unpredictable  behaviour  and  delightful  capri- 
ciousness, its  illogical  fancies  and  the  intangible  pathos  of 
its  frustrations — in  all  this  the  poet  feels  the  pulsation  of 
the  creative  life  of  the  universe.  In  Vaishnav  lyrics  the  love 
and  admiration  for  the  child  had  some  sort  of  poetic  recog- 
nition. But  the  child  there  is  not  the  ordinary  child  but 
God  incarnate  as  the  child  of  man.  In  Tagore’s  poetry 
there  is  no  apotheosis  but  universalization  of  the  child  of 
man  as  the  spirit  of  the  life  eternally  emergent. 

Many  of  the  poems  in  Sisu  are  suitable  for  children’s 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


293 


reading.  (As  a matter  of  fact  the  bulk  of  them  were  written 
for  his  motherless  son  and  daughter.  A few  were  written 
in  his  early  youth  and  included  in  the  earlier  editions  of 
Kadi  O Komal,  for  the  entertainment  of  his  nephew  and 
niece,  the  children  of  Satyendranath  Tagore.)  But  all  the 
poems  of  §i'su  have  a deep  significance  for  the  older  reader 
and  they  offer  a sumptuous  feast  for  both  the  fancy  of  the 
young  and  contemplation  of  the  old. 

In  1903-04  Mohitchandra  Sen,  a professor  of  philo- 
sophy in  Calcutta  and  a lover  of  Tagore’s  poetry,  edited  a 
collection  of  Tagore’s  poems  (and  plays)  rearranged  into 
sections  according  to  the  content  and  labelled  under  a 
heading  which  did  not  always  follow  the  titles  of  the 
original  books.  The  poet  wrote  for  each  section  a new 
prefatory  poem  where  he  attempted  to  indicate  the  signi- 
ficance of  the  nomenclature  of  the  section.  These  intro- 
ductory poems  were  later  collected  in  a separate  book  and 
published  under  the  title  Utsarga  (Dedication,  1914).  In 
these  poems  there  is  the  first  conscious  attempt  of  the  poet 
to  formulate  his  own  view  of  life,  that  is,  the  ‘religion’  of 
his  own  self.  He  perceives  in  his  own  personality  a con- 
tinuous duet  of  the  ego  and  the  super-ego. 

The  perfume  that  trembles  in  the  bosom  of  the  flower, 
the  song  that  hangs  in  the  light  of  the  dawn,  the 
elusive  glow  that  flits  over  the  cornfield  in  autumn, 
bright  in  the  sun-bath,  from  the  gold  to  the  green — 
the  same  perfume  has  built  my  body,  the  same  song 
is  creating  new  illusions  in  me  and  the  same  glow  is 
casting  a shade  in  my  eyes.  Who  can  hold  me  in 
myself? 

The  ego  and  the  super-ego  are  co-eternal.  Through  the 
former  the  latter  is  moving  towards  finality:  from  birth  to 
death  and  from  death  to  birth.  (It  is  a mistake  to  conclude 
that  by  this  finality  Tagore  meant  anything  like  spiritual 
perfection  or  emancipation  or  nirvana.  It  is  a movement 


294 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


that  impels  the  universe — life  included — to  endless  expan- 
sion.) 

0 my  eternal  friend,  for  all  the  time  you  are  building 
me  up  anew.  You  have  always  been  with  me  and  shall 
be  for  all  time  to  come. 

This  idea  is  clarified  in  a letter  written  by  Tagore  to  the 
editor  of  the  collected  poems: 

1 too  perceive  the  person  whom  you  look  upon  as 
Rabindra.  He  is  an  object  of  nature  like  the  buds  and 
twigs  of  trees  and  plants.  If  it  blossoms  out  well  and 
good,  if  it  withers  away  no  harm  is  done.  This  is 
always  happening  around  us.  But  I exist  far  beyond 
him.  I exist  in  time  and  space  unlimited.  What  joy 
and  sorrow,  what  history,  what  life  and  death  can  hold 
me  up? 

In  the  poems  of  Kheyd  (The  Ferry,  1906)  the  poet’s 
thought  and  yearnings  are  leaning  towards  the  mysticism 
of  Vaishnav  poetry,  and  lyricism  is  approaching  musicality. 
‘The  Ferry’  takes  the  reader  easily  over  to  the  landing 
ground  of  the  temple  of  the  ‘Song  Offering’. 

The  songs  of  the  mystic  Vaishnavs  of  Bengal  commonly 
known  as  ‘Baul’  (literally,  ‘a  mad  fellow’)  who  used  to  draw 
their  votaries  from  Hindus  and  Muslims  impartially,  had 
always  a great  attraction  for  Tagore.  The  following  frag- 
ment of  a Baul  song  heard  by  the  wayside  at  Santiniketan 
when  the  poet  was  a young  man  had  acted  as  a mystic  mantra 
to  him,  and  it  gave  him  an  inspiration  that  never  ceased  to 
operate : 

In  and  out  of  the  cage  the  unknown  bird  comes  and 
goes  unbeknown  ; if  I could  have  but  caught  it  I would 
have  put  my  heart  as  a chain  round  its  feet. 

When  Tagore  was  passing  most  of  his  days  in  north 
central  Bengal  as  the  agent  of  the  family  estate  he  had  the 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


295 


opportunity  of  meeting  some  of  the  most  prominent  Bauls 
of  the  day  including  Lalan  Fakir  of  Kustea.  But  the 
strongest  impression  left  on  Tagore  by  any  individual  of  this 
class  was  of  a Vaishnav  woman  who  would  often  come  to  him 
of  a morning  at  Silaidah,  sit  at  his  feet  for  some  time  and 
depart  accepting  as  alms  nothing  but  the  withered  flowers 
cast  off  from  the  vase  on  the  poet’s  desk.  The  uncommon 
personality  of  this  Vaishnav  woman  has  been  immortalized 
in  one  of  his  short  stories.  References  to  her  occur  else- 
where too. 

Tagore  now  came  to  know  of  the  poetry  of  the  north- 
western mystic  saints  like  Kabir,  Mira,  Dadu,  Geyandas,  and 
others.  Appreciation  of  the  mystic  songs  of  Bengal  Bauls 
and  non-Bengali  saints  gave  a new  impetus  to  Tagore’s 
poetry  which  had  already  taken  an  inward  turn  with  a bias 
for  the  Vaishnav  approach.  I do  not  mean  that  Tagore  was 
influenced  by  Vaishnavism.  I only  mean  that  as  Vaishnav 
poetry  is  based  on  a fundamentally  Indian  and  peculiarly 
Bengali  outlook  on  life  and  as  it  had  developed  a symbolism, 
it  was  readily  acceptable  to  Tagore.  The  quest  of  Radha 
for  Krsna  whose  flute  was  calling  her  to  him  from  an 
unknown  distance  had  as  much  significance  for  Tagore  as 
Kalidasa’s  Yaksa  who  was  sending  the  cloud  messenger  to 
his  beloved  dwelling  in  the  far  off  Alaka.  The  former  was 
symbolic  of  the  poet’s  spiritual  quest , and  the  latter  of  his 
emotional  quest. 

The  sO'-called  Gitanjali  period  (1905-11)  comprises  some 
of  the  most  harassed  years  in  the  life  of  Tagore.  In  poetry 
and  prose,  in  novel  and  drama,  in  quiet  thought  and  in 
profound  activity  Tagore’s  efforts  now  blossomed  forth  in 
a way  that  was  unexpected  even  for  him.  Personally  it  was 
a period  of  great  mental  stress  and  storm  for  him.  His 
second  daughter  died  (1903),  soon  after  the  death  of  his  wife 
(1902),  and  his  youngest  son  followed  (1907).  His  school  at 
Santiniketan  was  costing  him  dearly.  The  Swadeshi  move- 
ment of  Bengal  drew  Jiim  otiL of  his  nook  and  he  was  doing 


296 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


his  utmost  to  canalise  the  nationalistic  enthusiasm  into  a 
constructive  course  planned  by  him  in  his  several  essays  and 
addresses  and  partly  initiated  in  his  own  estate  in  north 
central Jlengal.  But  in  the  midst  of  the  various  activities  he 
maintained  his  detachment.  He  was  conscious  of  a per- 
sistent call  from  within  for  coming  out  of  his  poet’s  shell. 
He  came  out  on  the  political  field  of  his  country  with  his 
programme  of  construction.  But  the  country  was  not  ready 
for  him,  and,  disappointed,  the  poet  crawled  back  to  his 
shell,  but  not  to  remain  so  for  long.  He  soon  came  out  on 
the  much  larger  held  of  humanity,  not  with  a programme 
or  prescription  but  himself  following  a call,  and  he  felt  sure 
that  it  would  take  him  nearer  to  the  heart  of  humanity. 

Gitanjali  (Song  Offering,  1910),  Gitimalya  (Song  Garland, 
1914)  and  Gitali  (Songs,  1914)  are  the  books  of  poems  of  this 
period.  Between  the  publication  of  Gitanjali  and  Gitimalya 
the  poet  visited  England  and  America,  met  Yeats  and  others 
and  won  the  Nobel  Prize  in  Literature  (1913).  The  award 
of  the  Nobel  Prize  was  of  tremendous  significance  for  India, 
being  the  first  recognition  of  contemporary  India  as  an  equal 
partner  in  the  assembly  of  the  men  of  letters  of  the  free  and 
progressive  world. 

There  is  this  common  feature  in  the  three  books:  they 
are  mostly  as  much  poems  as  songs  and  their  import  is  dis- 
tinctly mystic  and  devotional.  As  we  progress  from  Gitanjali 
we  notice  that  the  poems  assume  more  and  more  the  form 
of  song.  It  is  true  that  Tagore’s  poetry  does  not  show  any 
rigid  line  of  demarcation  between  a lyric  poem  and  a song 
and  that  his  wonderful  musical  gifts  had  successfully  set 
some  of  his  elaborate  and  difficult  poems  to  music  ; a dis- 
tinction nevertheless  can  be  made  between  a song  (i.e.  a 
poetic  composition  written  as  such  and  immediately  set  in 
tune)  and  a poem  (i.e.  a poetic  composition  written  without 
any  such  end).  In  the  songs  his  emotions  and  yearnings  are 
vocal  and  persistent.  In  the  poems  his  emotional  urge  is 
subdued  and  passive.  The  diction  of  the  songs  is  very  much 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


297 


simpler,  their  metre  much  lighter  and  their  poetry  more 
exquisite,  if  possible. 

From  this  time  onward  Tagore’s  poetry  followed  the 
parallel  paths  of  lyric  poetry  and  of  song.  The  two  paths 
for  a time  were  divergent.  The  lyric  form  at  first  became 
almost  architecturally  sombre  and  majestic  but  was  presently 
following  the  simple  diction  of  the  song.  The  songs  are 
generally  very  short  compositions. 

Balaka  (A  Chain  of  Flying  Birds,  1916)  introduced  new 
technique  in  the  form  of  Tagore’s  poetry.  The  metre,  based 
on  Payar,  shows  unequal  lines  and  uneven  pause,  which  is 
consonent  with  the  pitches  of  emotion  and  with  the  variation 
of  mood.  The  wonderful  filigree  of  metaphors,  the  por- 
tentous sonority  of  the  words  and  the  massive  rythm  of  the 
lines  invest  the  characteristic  poems  of  Balaka  with  the 
solemn  majesty  of  ancient  architecture.  The  poetry  of 
Balaka  is  truly  grand,  in  the  grandest  scale  possible  for  the 
lyric.  We  had  seen  nothing  like  it  before,  not  even  the 
gorgeous  Urva'si. 

Balaka  reminds  us  vaguely  of  Ksanika  despite  the 
striking  contrast  between  the  two  books.  Here  also  the  poet 
is  in  the  mood  of  the  wayfarer  but  he  is  not  solitary  now  ; 
the  whole  universe  appears  to  be  on  the  move.  In  Ksanika 
there  is  no  destination,  as  for  a truant  child  the  path  leads 
to  nowhere  in  particular,  or  rather  it  leads  him  to  anywhere. 
In  Balaka  the  path  is  the  road  to  universal  destiny,  call  it 
evolution  or  by  any  other  name,  and  man  is  immortal  in 
his  mortality.  There  is  throughout  a strong  note  of  retros- 
pection. The  poet  feels  that  the  time  for  leaving  this  world 
is  drawing  nearer,  and  so  for  the  first  time  feels  a sort  of 
nostalgia.  In  the  World  War  I which  was  then  on,  the  poet 
sees  the  purgatorial  punishment  of  the  Western  Powers  for 
their  greed  and  suppression  of  humanity. 

O my  ruthless  God!  They  are  greedy,  they  are  muddle- 

headed,  they  pass  over  Thy  lion-gate  ; surreptitiously  and 


298 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


without  authority  they  dig  in  and  steal  Thy  treasure. 
The  stolen  treasure,  a heavy  burden,  every  split  moment 
squeezes  out  their  vitals,  and  there  is  no  way  of  laying 
it  down.  I shed  tears  and  ask  Thee  repeatedly  : Pardon 
them,  O my  ruthless  God!  I look  and  see  that  Thy 
pardon  sweeps  down  in  a terrific  storm  ; buffetted  by 
that  storm  they  fall  in  the  dust ; the  huge  pile  of  their 
loot  tumbles  down  pell  mell  and  is  scattered  away  in 
the  gale.  O my  ruthless  God!  Thy  pardon  is  in  the 
fumes  of  the  rumbling  thunder  ; it  is  in  the  doomsday 
book  of  sundown  ; it  is  in  the  shower  of  blood  ; it  is  in 
the  crashes  of  unexpected  impacts. 

In  a poem  written  ten  months  later  Tagore  records  his 
admiration  for  the  fighting  spirit  and  selfless  spirit  and 
patriotism  shown  in  the  battlefields  of  France  and  fervently 
hopes  for  a regeneration  of  Europe: 

These  torrents  of  heroes’  blood,  these  streams  of  mothers’ 
tears:  would  their  entire  worth  be  lost  in  the  dust  of 
the  earth?  Wouldn’t  Heaven  be  bought  over  by  them? 
Wouldn’t  the  Master  of  the  treasurehold  of  the  universe 
pay  up  this  vast  balance  of  credit?  Wouldn’t  the 
penance  of  the  night  usher  in  the  bright  day?  On  a 
dreadful  night  of  sorrow,  with  the  blow  of  Death  when 
man  has  levelled  down  its  own  mortal  barrier,  wouldn’t 
the  immortal  greatness  of  God  appear? 

Tagore  was  too  much  of  an  artist  to  stick  to  a particular 
form  for  long.  The  irregular  metre  of  Balaka  he  now 
employed  in  writing  the  poems  of  Palataka  (The  Truant.  She, 
1918)  which  brought  in  a new  genre  of  lyric  poetry.  These 
poems  having  a sort  of  story  kernel  each,  ring  of  the  deep 
pathos  of  the  frustrations  of  small  hopes  and  little  cravings 
of  the  common  man. 

The  poems  of  Sisu  Bholanath  (Child  the  Forgetful  Lord, 
1922)  are  allied  to  the  poems  of  Sisu,  but  they  are  on  a 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


299 


(different  plane  and  reveal  the  child  in  the  poet  more  than 
anything  else.  The  poet  looks  at  the  world  longingly 
through  the  wistful  eyes  of  a child  not  free  to  move  as  he 
likes. 

The  typical  poems  of  the  next  book  of  verse  Purabi  (The 
Eastern  Melody,  1925),  were  written  in  South  America  and 
on  the  sea  (September  1924  to  January  1925).  In  the  poem 
Mukti  (Emancipation)  the  poet  expresses  his  own  joys  and 
hopes. 

In  the  poems  of  Mahuya  (1829)  the  poet  paid  his  homage 
to  women,  and  specially  remarkable  are  the  poems  under 
the  caption  Namni  (The  Named),  which  delineate  the  various 
facets  of  women’s  sweetness  and  charm  appearing  in  the 
different  types  of  girlhood.  The  characteristic  poems  of 
Vanavani  (The  Voice  of  the  Woodland,  1931)  carry, the  poet’s 
tributes  to  plants  big  and  small,  known  and  unknown  which, 
as  typifying  life  irrepressible  and  triumphant,  had  always 
been  a source  of  joy  and  inspiration  to  him. 

Retrospection  and  reminiscence  are  the  dominant  mood 
in  the  poems  of  Parises  (Finis,  1932).  The  style  shows  a keen- 
ness and  a freshness  that  spells  something  more  than  the 
vigour  of  Balaka  and  the  simplicity  of  Ksanika.  Tagore’s  art 
of  expression  found  a new  harmony  here.  There  is  also  an 
important  metrical  novelty.  The  last  fourteen  poems  are 
written  in  uneven  unrhymed  verse,  the  precursor  of  the  real 
free  verse  which  appears  in  his  next  books. 

The  mood  is  not  pessimistic,  neither  is  it  joyous;  it  is  a 
mood  of  quietude  and  happiness.  In  the  poem  Dinavasan 
(The  End  of  the  Day)  the  poet  speaks  of  the  day  when  he 
shall  be  here  no  more  but  the  life  in  him  will  have  spread 
over  around  to  continue  for  ever  and  his  happiness  will  persist 
in  all  that  is  good  and  sweet  and  simple  in  nature  and  in  man. 
He  would  hate  to  know  that  huge  meetings  would  be  called 
and  pretentious  monuments  raised  in  his  memory: 

Let  my  memory  be  associated  for  ever  where  my  songs 


300 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


mingle  yonder  with  the  murmur  of  the  frills  of  the  fir 
leaves,  where  under  the  Sephalika  the  dew’s  smile  for 
the  moment  sparkles,  where  the  shade  tumbles  down  in 
slumber  festooned  by  specks  of  sunlight,  where  my  hours 
of  work  idle  in  the  guise  of  work,  where  my  neglect  of 
work  lights  up  a hidden  lamp  and  with  multi-coloured 
dreams  fills  up  the  basket  of  beauty. 

The  poems  of  Punasca  (Postscript,  1932),  Ses  Saptak  (The 
Last  Octave,  1935),  Patraput  (The  Cup  of  Leaves,  1936)  and 
Syamall  (The  Dark  She,  1936)  have  a free  rhythm  which  leans 
more  towards  prose  than  the  English  free  verse  or  the  French 
vers  libre.  These  ‘prose  poems’  are  characterized  not  only 
by  the  prose  rhythm  but  by  the  prose  diction  as  well.  The 
subject-matter  of  these  poems  demands  such  a metre  and  such 
a diction,  otherwise  their  rugged  uneven  and  non-emotional 
thought-contents  would  not  have  been  properly  presented. 
This  was  no  new  experiment  for  Tagore.  He  had  written 
such  poems  (not  then  called  as  such)  long  ago,  but  the  poet 
was  then  chary  to  give  them  the  outward  shape  of  poetry. 
So  they  were  included  in  Lipika  (Slips  of  Writing,  1922)  as 
story  crumbs  in  poetical  prose. 

The  subject-matter  of  the  poems  of  Vicitrita  (The  Varie- 
gated She,  1933)  are  the  paintings  by  some  of  the  artists  of 
Santiniketan  and  by  the  poet  and  his  friends.  Here  the  poems 
illustrate  the  pictures  rather  than  the  pictures  illustrate  the 
poems. 

The  keynote  of  Blthika  (The  Arbor  Path,  1935)  is  struck 
by  its  first  poem  Atiter  Chaya  (The  Shade  of  the  Past).  The 
heart  of  the  poet  is  quietly  waiting  for  the  approach  of  the 
great  unknown  the  Eternal  Past  that  ‘in  his  necklace  has 
set  in  one  after  another  as  gems  the  old  centuries,  their 
heartache  and  their  anguish  all  quietened.’ 

Khap-chada  (The  Bizarre,  1937)  contains  short  verses  in 
the  nursery  rhyme  variety  meant  primarily  for  children  but 
equally  enjoyable  by  the  old.  The  exquisite  lightness  and 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


301 


brilliant  flexibility  of  the  metre  and  the  unbridled  sweep  of 
fancy  have  imparted  a peculiarly  delightful  relish  to  these 
New  Nursery  Rhymes. 

The  poems  of  Chadar  Chabi  (Rhymed  Pictures,  1937) 
on  the  other  hand,  are  longer  in  size  and  heavier  in  content. 
The  poet  apparently  wrote  them  for  the  young  but  he  did 
not  mean  that  they  would  all  be  readily  comprehensible  to 
the  immature  reader.  In  many  of  these  poems  the  remini- 
scences of  the  poet’s  boyhood  and  youth  have  been  echoed. 
Two  poems  are  very  remarkable.  In  Pisni  (Auntie)  the  deep 
and  mute  pathos  of  the  very  old  whose  family  ties  have  long 
been  scattered  and  who  lives  in  the  no-man’s  land  between 
the  fast  failing  memory  and  the  final  dissolution: 

There  was  a time  when  by  neighbours’  courtesy  she 
was  a cousin  to  some  one’s  mother;  she  was  granny  to 
Motilal  and  auntie  to  Cunilal.  As  she  remembers  this 
her  memory  suddenly  snaps  and  she  cannot  fish  out  from 
it  another  name.  She  draws  a deep  sigh,  and  thinks 
dully:  how  many  days  more  are  yet  to  pass. 

The  poet’s  deep  attachment  for  the  commonest  mani- 
festations of  nature  and  life  around  him  has  found  nostalgic 
expression  in  the  poem  Pichu  Dakd  (A  Call  from  Behind). 

The  short  poems  of  Prantik  (The  Frontierer,  1938),  all 
written  in  the  elongated  Payar  verse,  describe  the  twilight 
feelings  of  semi-consciousness  mixed  with  the  melancholy 
fancy  of  the  sickbed,  when  the  poet  had  just  recovered  from 
a very  serious  illness.  The  poems  were  written  between 
September  and  December  1937.  The  very  short  final  poem 
gives  Tagore’s  reactions  to  the  Sino-Japanese  War  which  was 
to  be  a prolegomenon  to  the  World  War  II. 

The  she-serpents  all  around  are  hissing  out  their 
poisonous  breath,  and  now  the  mellifluous  sermon  of 
peace  would  sound  like  a bad  jest.  So  before  taking 
leave  I make  the  call  to  those  who,  for  fighting  with  the 


302 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


demon,  are  making  themselves  ready  in  their  own  homes. 
The  next  book  of  verse  Senjuti  (The  Evening  Lamp. 

1938)  shows  the  return  of  the  poet’s  outlook  to.  its  normal 
equilibrium.  The  poems  of  Prahasinl  (The  Frolicsome  She, 
1839)  are  written  in  a light  and  jocose  vein.  The  joys  and 
miseries  of  the  past  that  had  long  been  left  behind  now  cast 
their  shadow  in  the  poems  of  Akas  Pradip  (The  Sky  Lamp, 

1939) .  The  poem  Samay-hara  (The  Timeless  Fellow)  is 
Tagore’s  mild  but  effective  reply  to  the  group  of  young 
writers  of  verse  from  East  Bengal  who  blamed  Tagore  stand- 
ing against  the  acceptance  of  their  own  poetry  and  who  would 
like  to  convince  the  reader  that  the  poetry  of  Tagore  was 
time-barred  and  out  of  vogue.  The  poem  is  an  exquisite 
specimen  of  pastiche  where  some  lines  from  well-known 
nursery  rhymes  woven  with  a few  lines  from  an  equally  well- 
known  mediaeval  poet  have  been  worked  into  a delightful 
pattern  with  mild  irony. 

In  the  significant  poems  of  Navajatak  (The  New-born, 

1940)  the  poet  has  called  in  question  the  worth  of  the 
mechanized  civilization  of  the  West.  In  the  poem  Prayascitta 
(Expatiation)  he  prognosticates  the  course  of  World  War  II 
that  was  just  about  to  break  out.  The  inhumanities  of  war 
are  expressed  poignantly  in  the  poem  Apaghat  (Accident) 
in  the  book  Sanai  (The  Flute  Concert,  1940): 

Down  the  path  of  the  sunset  the  afternoon  rays  slant  ; 
the  wind  is  tired  and  has  stopped  ; a cart  loaded  with 
straw  crawls  over  the  lonesome  field  to  the  distant  market 
place  at  Nadia  ; tied  behind  it  a calf  is  led  by  a rope. 
In  the  outskirts  of  the  Rajbanshi  quarter  of  the  village, 
on  the  edge  of  the  pond,  the  eldest  boy  of  Banamali  the 
school-master  is  sitting  still,  holding  the  butt  of  the 
fishing  red. 

A. press  telegram  comes  at  the  same  moment:  Finland 
has  been  shattered  by  bombing  by  the  Soviet. 

The  poems  of  Rogasayyay  (In  Sickbed,  1940)  remind  us 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


303 


of  Prantik  but  here  all  through  there  is  an  undercurrent  of 
listlessness  without  a trace  of  despondency: 

Whatever  I want  with  hungry  eagerness  my  grasping 
arms  fall  off  and  a consciousness  lights  up,  and  I find  ;t 
identical  with  the  morning  sunlight:  it  is  void  but  it  is 
not  nihil.  Then  I understand  the  saying  of  the  sages: 
Had  not  space  been  overflowing  with  ananda  the  body 
and  the  spirit  would  have  lain  clapped  in  the  vice  of  the 
unmoving  matter  ; who  indeed  could  have  breathed  in 
or  out  if  this  ananda  had  not  been  pervading  in  the 
encircling  space. 

In  the  poems  of  Arogya  (Convalescence,  1941)  the  mood 
is  lighter.  The  poet  is  thankful  for  the  affectionate  care  with 
which  nature  and  man  are  nursing  him  in  these  days  of 
his  second  childhood.  The  sound  of  a distant  gong  draws 
out  from  the  forgotten  memory  the  inconsequential  and  in- 
significant sights  and  sounds  reviving  the  pathos  of  the 
impending  separation  from  the  beloved  earth. 

But  the  separation  from  his  beloved  the  earth  would 
not  be  absolute.  Life  will  be  going  on  in  the  dust  of  the 
earth. 

Janmadine  (On  the  Birthday,  1941)  is  the  last  book  of 
verse  published  during  the  poet’s  lifetime.  In  its  charac- 
teristic poems  Tagore  has  attempted  a modest  estimation  of 
his  life  and  attainment.  A sense  of  deep  gratitude  and 
thankfulness  runs  through  them.  Janmadine  is  a fitting 
fade-out  of  the  ‘Evening  Song’  started  more  than  sixty  years 
before. 

In  the  songs  of  Tagore  lyric  poetry  has  received  an  elusive 
subtlety  and  an  exquisite  refinement  that  have  extented  its 
domain  beyond  the  bounds  of  the  mere  rhythmic  speech. 
As  a creator  of  beauty  Tagore  is  unique  in  many  fields  of 
literary  and  artistic  forms,  and  he  is  without  a second  in  his 
creation  of  musical  forms,  tunes  and  melodies.  Some  of  his 


304 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


tunes  are  improvements  on  the  metre,  being  lightened  and 
quickened  by  the  addition  of  the  musical  beat.  Sometimes 
it  appears  as  though  the  metre  of  Tagore’s  poetry  is  not 
amenable  to  the  usual  metrical  scheme  but  then  it  follows 
a musical  pattern  or  tune.  Some  poems  and  songs,  again, 
can  be  scanned  both  ways,  metrically  and  musically,  and  in 
such  a case  the  musical  scansion  invariably  gives  an  added 
flavour.  Occasionally  some  slight  verbal  alteration  is  made 
when  a poem  is  put  to  music  as  a song.  The  tunes  and 
melodies  created  by  Tagore  have  an  unspeakable  charm 
which  comes  not  so  much  from  the  blending  of  folk  styles 
with  the  high  or  academic  style  of  music,  with  dashes  from 
European  music,  but  from  such  a moulding  of  the  music 
pattern  that  the  tune  follows  a rhythm  of  its  own,  a rhythm 
that  combines  in  itself  the  metrical,  musical  and  dance  beats. 
This  is  why  Tagore’s  music  sometimes  sounds  like  rhythmic 
chanting. 

One  of  the  greatest  achievements,  in  his  closing  years, 
was  that  Tagore  succeeded  in  rendering  a song  independent 
of  lyricism  and  other  conventional  poetic  devices,  and  he 
made  excellent  songs  of  some  of  his  terse  and  solid  poems 
like  Urvasi  and  Chabi. 

Tagore’s  first  play  was  written  in J 881  soon  after  his  return 
from-  England.  It  is  a musical  play  on  the  story  of  the 
robber  Valmlki  becoming  the  first  poet  and  is  entitled 
V almiki-pratibha  (Genius  of  Valmlki,  1881).  It  was  staged 
at  home  (March,  1881)  on  the  occasion  of  the  annual  reunion 
of  the  old  Hindu  and  Presidency  collegians.  Tagore  took 
the  role  of  Valmlki  ; the  other  roles  were  taken  by  his  young 
nephews  and  nieces.  V almiki-pratibha  presents  a new  form 
of  Bengali  opera  where  the  songs  dcTnot  echothejtalks  but 
the  songs  and  the  talks  (also  sung)  are  complementary.  The 
performance  was  a signal  success.  Among  the  audience  were 
Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji  and  other  eminent  literary  men 
and  intellectuals  of  Calcutta. 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


305 


The  next  play  Kal-mrgayd  (The  Fatal  Hunt,  1882)  is  of 
the  same  type  as  Valmiki-pratibhd.  The  story,  also  from 
the  Ramayana,  is  Dasaratha’s  misadventure  in  accidentally 
killing  the  son  of  the  sage  Sindhu.  This  play  also  was 
performed  successfully  at  the  next  annual  reunion  of  the 
old  collegians. 

Tagore’s  third  play,  Prakrtir  Parisodh  (The  Repayment^ 
of  Nature,  1884)  was  written  at  Karwar  but  some  songs  were 
added  later.  The  theme  presents  for  the  first  time  Tagore’s 
own  view  of  life.  It  is  the  adjustment  of  conflicting  loye 
and  duty  by  achieving  a mellowness  of  the  heart ; escapism 
of  the  ascetic  offers  no  enduring  solution,  and  the  real  success 
in  life  comes  when  the  life  of  man  is  attuned  to  tHe~spirit 
of  Nature.  Prakrtir  Parisodh  is  lyrical  rather  than  dramatic, 
and  ft  has  never  been  performed  on  the  stage. 

The  story  of  the  next  play,  Nalini  (1884),  was  taken  from 
the  author’s  own  narrative  poem  Bhagnahrday  (Broken 
Heart,  1881). 

Raja  O Rani  (The  King  and  Queen,  1889)  is  a tragic 
drama  in  five  acts.  It  was  written  at  Solapur  and  is  mainly 
in  verse.  The  germ  of  the  theme  is  to  be  found  in  the  poem 
Nisphal  Kdmand  (The  Fruitless  Desire)  in  Manasi.  King 
Vikramdev  is  deeply  in  love  with  his  wife  Sumitra  and  finds 
no  time  for  his  royal  duties.  Sumitra  does  not  like  it,  being 
sure  that  it  was  bound  to  be  followed  by  a reaction  that  would 
destroy  that  love.  She  also  knows  that  it  is  never  a true 
love  that  interferes  with  one’s  duties  in  life.  The  queen 
therefore  could  not  encourage  her  husband  to  wallow  in  her 
love  and  thereby  neglect  the  administration  of  his  kingdom. 
But  the  passion  of  the  king  could  not  be  curbed,  and  the 
conflict  between  love  and  duty  ended  in  tragedy.  There  is 
a second  story,  the  love  of  Kumarsen  and  Ila,  which  does  not 
absolutely  fit  in  with  the  main  story,  and  the  sensational  finale 
of  the  second  story  is  rather  jarring. 

In  spite  of  its  shortcomings  Raja  O Rani  is  one  of 
the  best  tragic  dramas  that  had  yet  been  written  in  the 

20 


306 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


language.  It  was  performed  repeatedly  and  with  great 
success  on  the  public  stage  and  it  established  Tagore’s 
reputation  as  a playwright.  Tagore’s  name  was  already 
familiar  to  the  stage-going  people.  His  novel  Bauthakuranir 
Hat  (1883)  was  rendered  into  a stage  play  by  Kedarnath 
Chaudhuri,  and  some  songs  by  Tagore  were  put  in  it.  This 
play  ( Basanta-Ray ) was  quite  popular  on  the  stage.  In  1909 
Tagore  wrote  a five  act  drama,  Prayascitta  (Expiation), 
based  on  his  novel  of  the  same  name.  Much  later  (1929)  a 
revised  version  of  this  play  was  published  under  the  title 
Paritran  (Relief). 

Forty  years  later  Tagore  rewrote  Raja  O Rani  excluding 
the  second  story,  smoothing  out  the  other  incongruities  and 
adding  two  new  characters  and  published  it  under  the  title 
Tapati  (1929).  It  is  entirely  in  prose.  Tapati  is  almost 
entirely  a new  play. 

Visarjan  (The  Immersion,  1890)  is  a lyrical  tragedy  and 
is  one  of  the  best  plays  of  Tagore.  In  performance  too  its 
superiority  is  undoubted.  The  story  is  taken  from  his 
juvenile  novel  Rajarsi  (The  Royal  Sage,  1889)  the  theme 
of  which  is  taken  from  the  history  of  Tipperah  in  the 
seventeenth  century.  The  dramatic  interest  here  is  in  the 
clash  of  deep  emotion,  superior  wisdom  and  unattached  wide 
view  of  life  against  blind  orthodoxy,  narrow  conception  of 
duty  and  mistaken  rights  of  jurisdiction.  Characterization 
is  superb. 

Citrangada  (1892), 2 Biday-abhisap  (The  Parting  Curse, 
1894)  and  Malinl  (1895)  are  dramatic  lyrics  of  varying 
length.  The  mere  hint  of  the  story  of  Malinl  is  taken  from 
the  Buddhist  text  Mahdvastu,  but  the  development  is 
Tagore’s  own  and  the  finale  is  based  on  a dream  he  had  in 
London  during  his  second  visit  to  Europe  (1890). 

Between  1885  and  1897  Tagore  wrote  several  comic 
playlets  and  sketches  and  two  farces : Goday  Galad  (A  Wrong 


* The  English  version  Citra  was  successfully  staged  in  London. 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


307 


Start,  1892)  and  Baikunther  Khata  (Baikuntha’s  Manuscript 
Copy,  1897).  Goddy  Galad  was  later  rewritten  and  published 
under  the  title  Ses-raksa  (Saved  At  Last,  1928).  The  wit  and 
humour  presented  in  these  plays,  playlets  and  sketches  are 
intensely  enjoyable  and  they  are  as  fresh  now  as  ever. 
Goday  Galad  was  first  performed  at  Sangit  Samaj  under  the 
direction  of  the  author.  It  was  an  important  event  in  the 
history  of  the  Indian  stage  and  histrionics. 

Cirakumar-sabhd  (The  Society  of  Confirmed  Bachelors, 
1901)  presents  a peculiar  form  of  the  humorous  play.  Here 
the  story  is  entirely  carried  through  dialogues  and  it  reads 
almost  like  a novel.  Years  later  (1925)  it  was  given  also  the 
proper  form  of  the  drama.  The  first  version  was  published 
in  book  form  under  the  title  Prajapatir  Nirbandha  (Obduracy 
of  the  Marriage  Deity).  A smaller  work  but  closely  similar 
in  form  to  Cirakumar-sabhd  is  Karmaphal  (Fruit  of  Karma, 
1903).  It  was  later  given  the  accepted  form  of  a farce  under 
the  title  Sodhbodh  (All  Quits,  1926).  Both  Cirakumar- 
sabhd  and  Sodhbodh  are  stage  successes. 

Tagore  began  to  write  musical  plays  with  a mystic  or 
spiritual  import  some  time  after  he  had  come  to  stay 
permanently  at  Santiniketan.  In  the  earliest  of  such  plays, 
Sdradotsav  (The  Autumn  Festival,  1908),  in  Phalguni  (The 
Spirit  of  the  Spring  Month,  1915)  and  in  Vasanta  (The 
Spring,  1923)  the  spirit  of  the  season  symbolizes  the  different 
aspects  of  nature  to  which  the  progressive  human  soul  is 
attuned,  and  tydga  (renunciation)  is  the  secret  of  permanent 
blessedness  ( ananda ).  The  cue  of  the  slender  story  of 
Phalguni  was  taken  from  the  Buddhistic  story  of  Makhadeva 
(as  in  Mahavastu)  and  the  spirit  of  the  play  is  somewhat  akin 
to  the  significant  poems  of  Balaka.  Its  performance  at 
Calcutta  (March  1915)  by  the  poet,  his  relatives  and  the 
Santiniketan  troupe  of  teachers  and  students,  is  the  most 
remarkable  event  in  the  history  of  Bengali  stage  and  stage 
decor  in  the  current  century.  The  poet  appeared  in  the 
double  role  of  Young  Kavisekhar  and  Old  Baul. 


308 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Raja  (The  King,  191 0)3  is  the  first  really  symbolic  drama 
b\  Tagore.  The  story  in  its  outline  is  taken  from  the 
Buddhistic  story  of  the  king  Kusa  (as  in  Mahavastu).  A short 
stage  version  of  Raja  was  published  under  the  title  Arup- 
ratan  (The  Formless  Precious  One.  1920).  The  symbolism  is 
briefly  indicated  in  the  preface. 

Both  Raja  and  Acalayatan  (The  Immobile  Institution, 
191 1)  were  written  within  a period  of  eight  months  when  the 
poet  was  staying  once  again  in  north  central  Bengal.  The 
story  of  Acalayatan  is  entirely  original,  but  its  spirit  and  the 
whole  atmosphere  is  amazingly  life-like  and  historical. 
During  the  closing  centuries  of  the  first  millennium  of  the 
Christian  era  and  the  opening  centuries  of  the  next  there 
was  a peculiar  development  of  Mahayana  Buddhism  in 
Eastern  India,  the  so-called  Vajrayana  and  Mantrayana  prac- 
tices. Several  Buddhistic  monasteries  ( Vihara ) grew  up  where 
religion,  philosophy  and  higher  learning  were  cultivated  with 
devotional  zeal.  But  over  all  there  was  an  almost  fanatical 
belief  in  supernatural  powers  obtainable  from  esoteric 
practices  and  extreme  penances  which  were  believed  to  be 
the  only  goal  of  intellectual  and  spiritual  advance.  This 
belief  became  universal  and  led  to  social  and  intellectual  in- 
anition and  to  spiritual  mockery,  amt' as  IristofyTells  us.  it 
ultimately  pushed  the  whole  country  on  the  downward  path 
of  inactivity  and  helplessness  resulting  in  the  loss-of  independ- 
ence foxxeiituries.  In  Acalayatan  Tagore  gives  an  imaginary 
but  none  the  less  real  picture  of  such  social,  intellectual  and 
spiritual  stagnation,  and  he  indicates  also  the  means  of  escape 
from  it.  The  play  demonstrates  that  Tagore  was  not  only 
very  well-read  in  Buddhism  but  that  he  had  a true  perspec- 
tive of  history.  Acalayatan  is  a powerful  drama,  a delightful 
play  and  at  the  same  time  a glowing  history  of  the  decline 
and  fall  of  Tan  trie  Buddhism,  of  the  conflict  of  the  Aryan 
and  the  non-Aryan  culture  and  the  final  fusion  of  the  two. 


5 The  English  version  is  entitled  The  King  of  the  Dark  Chamber. 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


309 


Guru  (1918)  is  an  abridged  version  of  Acalayatan  suit- 
able for  staging  by  school  boys  of  Santiniketan. 

Dakghar  (Post  Office,  1912)  is  the  best  known  of  the 
symbolic  plays  by  Tagore.  Judged  as  a play  Dakghar  is  not 
so  much  dramatic  as  narrative  and  there  is  not  much  of  a 
story  to  tell.  The  poet  called  it  a ‘prose  lyric’  in  dramatic 
form.  But  the  play  is  vital  and  moving,  and,  though  difficult, 
its  performance  at  Santiniketan  (and  elsewhere)  was  signally 
successful. 

Dakghar  symbolizes  the  spiritual  quest  of  the  individual 
soul  while  the  next  symbolic  play  Muktadhdra  (The  Released 
Stream,  1922)  symbolizes  the  triumph  of  the  goodness  of  man 
over  the  oppressiveness  of  power  and  greed  going  by  the  name 
of  nationalism  and  efficiency.  In  a way  Muktadhdra.  foretells 
the  disaster  of  the  second  World  War  that  was  to  come  in  less 
than  a score  of  years.  When  it  was  written  the  Non-co-opera- 
tion movement  in  India  was  in  full  swing.  There  is  some 
reflection  of  it  in  the  plot  of  the  play. 

The  last  and  perhaps  the  most  difficult  of  Tagore’s 
symbolic  plays  is  Iiaktakarabl  (Red  Oleanders,  1924).  The-, 
characters,  however,  are  all  full-blooded  and  human.  The 
symbolism  here  is  fully  articulated  and  boldly  drawn  up  and 
the  drama  is  powerful.  The  blinding  greed  of  power  and 
wealth  that  is  relentlessly  controlling  the  destiny  of  the 
civilized  mankind  of  today  and  is  forcing  the  masses  to 
a life  of  indignity,  ugliness,  bestiality  and  soullessness  is  the 
theme  of  the  play.  The  drama  points  out  that  the  salvation 
of  mankind  is  to  be  sought  in  a life  where  knowledge  and 
power  help  in  a simplicity  of  existence  that  is  harmonious 
with  nature,  both  animate  and  inanimate. 

The  next  play  of  Tagore  is  Grhapraves  (House  Warming, 
1925).  The  plot  is  taken  from  the  author’s  own  short  story 
Seser  Ratri  (The  Night  of  the  End).  It  is  a plain  drama 
and  there  is  no  touch  of  symbolism.  The  play  was  very 
successful  on  the  public  stage. 

Natlr  Puja  (A  Dancing  Girl’s  Worship,  1926)  is  a play 


310 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


in  which  music  and  dance  play  an  important  part.  The 
slender  plot  is  based  on  a Buddhist  legend  on  which  the 
poet  had  written  the  poem  Pujarini  (The  Worshipping 
Woman).  The  play  is  one  of  Tagore’s  most  popular  dramas. 
It  introduced  a new  technique  in  dance-cum-music. 
Candalika  (The  Untouchable  Girl,  1933)  is  a full-fledged 
music-and-dance  playlet.  The  plot  is  based  on  a Buddhist 
legend  ( Sardulakarnavadana ).  It  has  some  affinity  with 
Citrangada.  In  the  latter  the  heroine  attempted  to  win  the 
heart  of  her  beloved  by  borrowed  charms  but  was  successful 
only  when  she  had  discarded  her  borrowed  plumes  and  had 
nothing  to  offer  but  her  love.  In  Candalika  the  low-caste 
girl  attempted  to  win  the  love  of  the  monk  Ananda,  to 
whom  she  had  lost  her  heart,  by  means  of  occult  power 
exercised  by  her  mother  on  her  behalf,  but  at  the  verge  of 
triumph  she  came  to  her  senses.  She  saw  that  she  could 
possess  Ananda’s  body  but  not  his  heart.  She  asked  her 
mother  to  stop  the  chant  and  took  to  the  path  of  renunciation. 

Taser  Des  (The  Land  of  Playing  Cards,  1933)  is  based 
on  a short  story  of  Tagore’s  own.  It  is  a delightful  play  full 
of  light-hearted  song  and  dance.  Bamsari  (1933)  is  a play 
that  partakes  of  the  structure  of  a love  story  in  dialogue. 
There  is  not  much  action  but  that  has  not  interfered  with 
the  dramatic  interest.  It  has  never  been  played  on  the  stage. 

The  last  dramatic  writings  of  Tagore  are  the  three  dance- 
dramas  (. Nrtya-natya ):  Citrangada  (1936),  Candalika  (1938) 
and  Syama  (1938).  The  plot  of  the  last  is  based  on  Tagore’s 
own  poem  Parisodh  (Quits).  These  dance-plays  show  the 
last  stage  of  development  in  Tagore’s  lyrical  drama.  Here 
dance  is  a means  of  dramatic  expression  and  not  mere  adjunct 
to  or  an  embellishment  of  songs.  In  his  nrtya-natyas  Tagore 
has  created  a new  type  of  esthetic  expression  where  poetry 
is  blended  with  music,  dance  and  drama  and  all  are  of  equal 
importance. 

Tagore  is  the  first  writer  of  the  true  short  story  in  Bengali 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


311 


(1891)  and  he  has  remained  the  best.  His  short  stories  are 
concerned  with  ordinary  men  and  women  from  the  humbler 
walks  of  life.  The  number  of  Tagore’s  stories  is  about 
a hundred  and  their  variety  is  manifold.  How  Tagore  had 
received  his  first  inspirations  for  writing  short  stories  is  told 
in  a poem  contemporaneous  with  his  first  short  stories  (and 
also  in  some  letters): 

I feel  the  urge  of  writing  stories,  one  by  one  and  in  my 
own  way,  on  humble  lives  and  their  small  miseries,  on 
matters  of  small  consequence,  really  simple  and  plain, 
a few  drops  of  tears  from  the  thousands  of  forgotten 
memories  flowing  down  to  oblivion. 

There  would  be  no  colourful  narration,  no  piling  up 
of  incidents  ; there  would  be  no  philosophizing  and  no 
moralizing.  On  coming  to  the  end  one  would  feel  a sort 
of  unsatisfaction  as  if  the  conclusion  is  not  really 
the  end.  . . . 

All  this  that  is  neglected  and  rejected,  this  unpurpose- 
ful display  of  life,  I would  for  a moment  gather  around 
me  and  with  it  I would  create  a rainfall  of  all  that  is 
forgotten,  in  a rainy  night  of  the  life. 

In  many  of  the  short  stories  of  Tagore  there  is  an 
undercurrent  of  a faint  tragic  note.  But  it  is  not  tragic  in 
the  accepted  sense.  It  is  a note  of  regret  arising  out  of 
a sense  of  frustration  and  futility  that  wells  up  from  a deeper 
understanding  of  life.  In  a song  that  was  written  at  a time 
when  Tagore  was  writing  his  first  short  stories,  this  sense 
of  frustration  in  life  in  general  is  tersely  and  exquisitely 
expressed : 

It  is  only  going  and  coming,  merely  floating  down  the 
stream  ; it  is  nothing  but  only  smiles  and  tears  in  alter- 
nate light  and  darkness.  It  is  but  a chance  meeting, 
just  a touch  in  passing  ; it  is  only  looking  back  with 
tearful  eyes  when  going  away.  It  is  only  running  after 
a fresh  mirage,  leaving  behind  futile  hopes. 


312 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


The  desire  is  endless  but  the  ability  is  mutilated. 
Utmost  strivings  bring  only  incomplete  results.  It  is 
like  floating  in  the  sea  in  a wrecked  boat.  Thoughts 
groan  within  and  the  expression  is  inadequate. 

It  is  only  half  an  understanding  between  hearts  ; it  is 
really  half  a word  that  is  never  finished  ; it  is  only  a 
speck  of  love  amidst  coyness,  fear,  terror  and  half-trust. 

The  short  stories  of  Tagore  present  a variety  of  form 
and  content,  and  they  range  from  the  terrain  of  love  to  the 
domain  of  the  ghost.  As  a literary  genre  Tagore’s  short 
stories  are  perfect,  and  they  can  be  compared  favourably  with 
the  best  in  English,  American,  French  and  Russian  literature. 
Like  poetry  and  song  short  story  was  written  to  the  very  last 
of  Tagore’s  days.  A careful  study  of  his  short  stories  would 
reveal  the  continual  progressiveness  of  Tagore’s  art. 

The  first  two  novels  of  Tagore  have  their  plots  taken  from 
the  history  of  the  seventeenth  century  Bengal.  The  cue  of 
the  plot  of  Bauthakurariir  Hat  (1883)  was  taken  from  Ghosh’s 
Varigadhip-parajay  (1869)  but  it  is  more  of  a domestic  type 
than  historical.  Rajarsi  (1885)  is  a ‘juvenile’  novel  and  the 
plot  is  taken  from  the  history  of  Tipperah.  The  conflict 
between  the  head  and  the  heart  is  the  main  note  of  the 
theme  of  the  two  novels.  The  first  shows  faint  traces  of  the 
influence  of  Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji  but  the  second  does 
not  show  any. 

The  next  novel  was  written  some  fifteen  years  later. 
It  is  Cokher  Bali  (Eye-sore,  1902).  Here  for  the  first  time 
in  Indian  literature  the  actions  and  reactions  arising  out  of 
the  impact  of  the  minds  of  individuals  propel  the  plot  and 
not  so  much  the  external  happenings.  The  psychosis  of  the 
characters  is  followed  realistically,  and  in  this  respect  the 
novel  is  unique  in  our  literature.  The  end  of  the  story 
appears  to  some  readers  of  the  present  day  as  not  being  in 
full  accord  with  the  realism  of  the  plot,  and  Tagore  himself 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


313 


was  not  unaware  of  it.  But  it  could  not  have  been  made 
otherwise.  Any  other  end  to  Vinodini’s  career  would  have 
given,  unwarrantedly,  the  rudest  shock  even  to  the  most 
advanced  reader  of  the  day,  and  Tagore  was  no  believer  in 
shock  tactics  and  had  never  attempted  to  be  outrageously 
original.  In  the  contemporaneous  long  story  Nastamd  (The 
Lost  Nest,  1903),  however,  Tagore  did  what  he  could  not  do 
in  Cokher  Bali. 

Naukadubi  (The  Boat  Wreck,  1905)  was  written  almost 
immediately  after  Cokher  Bali.  In  the  earlier  novel  the 
problems  of  individual  life  are  entangled  with  the  problems 
of  domestic  life.  In  the  later  novel  the  problem  of  individual 
life  is  entangled  with  problems  of  the  social  life.  There  are 
few  incidents  in  Cokher  Bali  but  Naukadabi  does  not  lack 
incidents  and  accidents.  Both  novels  were  first  serialized  in 
Bahgadarsan  (new  series)  which  was  then  coming  out  under 
the  editorship  of  Tagore. 

In  Tagore’s  greatest  novel  Gora  (1910)  the  problems  of 
the  individual,  of  the  society  and  of  the  State  are  inter- 
twined. In  the  comprehensiveness  of  the  canvas  of  the 
plot  as  well  as  in  the  masterly  execution,  Gora  has  been 
rightly  viewed  as  something  like  a Mahdbharata  of  modern 
India.  The  social  and  political  future  of  the  country  has 
been  boldly  indicated  and  there  is  a clear  prediction  of  the 
Non-co-operation  movement  of  Mahatma  Gandhi  which  was 
to  come  a decade  later.  Tagore  never  uses  the  same 
technique  in  his  novels,  and  the  technique  of  Gora  is  almost 
entirely  different  from  that  of  its  predecessors. 

Caturahga  (The  Quartet  or  Chess,  1916),  as  the  name 
implies,  consists  of  four  episodes  or  interconnected  stories 
which  first  appeared  as  independent  stories  in  the  pages  of 
Sabujpatra  (1915).  But  the  other  sense  of  the  title  signifies 
the  unity  of  the  episodes  as  a novel  as  well  as  the  fate  of  the 
heroine  in  the  hands  of  four  persons  who  came  successively 
to  control  her  fate.  In  technique  and  execution  Caturahga 
is  faultless,  and  in  a sense  it  is  the  most  compact  and  neatest 


314 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


work  of  fiction  in  the  language.  Here  the  problem  is  not 
of  the  outside  ; it  is  the  difficulty  that  a person  finds  when 
he  or  she  is  faced  with  emotional  crises  and  seeks  mental  or 
spiritual  equilibrium.. 

Ghare  Baire  (At  Home  and  Outside,  1916)  followed 
Caturahga  immediately  in  the  pages  of  Sabujpatra,  and  it 
introduced  a new  style  in  prose  and  a new  form  in  fiction. 
The  time  is  the  first  decade  of  the  century  when  the  in- 
tellectual Bengal  was  in  the  thick  of  the  Swadeshi  movement. 
Sensible  men  were  then  concerned  deeply  with  the  progressive 
movement  in  several  fields:  economic  independence  of  the 
country,  education  of  women,  avoidance  of  the  traditional 
grooves  of  moral  and  religious  thought,  and  freedom  from 
the  bondage  of  social  and  domestic  tyranny.  The  new  ideas 
about  sex  from  the  West  (including  Sex  Psychology)  had  just 
arrived.  The  hero  Nikhiles  loves  his  country,  likes  his  people 
and  adores  his  wife.  And  this  love  and  adoration  he  would 
like  to  be  made  free  from  obligation  to  or  force  from  any 
quarter.  He  is  a supporter  of  Swadeshi  but  is  against  indis- 
criminately boycotting  everything  foreign  and  he  opposes 
violence  in  any  form.  He  would  give  his  wife  freedom  from 
conjugal  bondage  so  that  she  might  assess  the  real  nature  and 
true  value  of  their  love  grown  out  of  wedlock  and  then  love 
him  freely  if  she  still  liked.  Nikhiles  hated  to  think  that 
his  wife  was  obliged  to  make  love  to  him  as  her  inviolable 
duty.  In  this  novel  Tagore  has  shown  the  contrast  between 
the  old  ways  and  the  new  at  home  and  outside.  The 
narration  is  in  the  form  of  personal  notes  and  diaries  of  the 
three  main  characters  that  form  the  triangle  of  contest. 

Jogayog  (Links  and  Gaps,  1930)  is  a purely  domestic 
story.  The  conflict  is  between  the  ideologies  and  sensibilities 
of  a family  mellowed  with  culture  for  generations  but  now 
lacking  cash,  and  the  coarseness  and  animal  greed  of  a very 
ordinary  person  who  has  amassed  a fortune  by  his  tenaci  tv  and 
diligence.  Tagore  projected  a novel  depicting  the  career  of 
three  generations  of  a family  and  the  first  instalment  of 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


315 


Jogayog  came  out  in  the  pages  of  Vicitra  under  the  title 
Tin  Purus  (Three  Generations).  Unfortunately  he  did  not 
proceed  beyond  the  first  generation. 

Seser  Kavita  (The  Concluding  Poem,  1929)  was  written 
at  Bangalore  (1928).  It  presents  a new  technique  in  story- 
telling and  its  mixed  form  of  prose  and  poetry  composition 
bears  only  a vague  resemblance  to  the  Campu  in  Sanskrit 
literature.  Seser  Kavita  is  fiction  coming  very  close  to  poetry, 
and  as  such  the  characterization  is  not  as  sharp  as  in  the 
regular  novel.  It  is  a love  story  written  as  if  to  end  all  love 
stories  and  its  theme  is  ‘modern’  in  the  current  sense  of  the 
term.  The  author  has  shown  that  love  in  its  most  basic  form 
is  above  any  need  for  consummation.  Vicariously  Tagore  has 
given  here  a very  effective  reply  to  his  very  young  critics 
who  were  writers  themselves  and  considered  his  poetry  as 
out  of  vogue.  §esar  Kavita  won  the  heart  of  these  critics  and 
their  change  of  opinion  is  reflected  in  their  subsequent 
writings. 

Dui  Bon  (The  Two  Sisters,  1933)  and  Malanca  (The 
Florist’s  Garden,  1934)  are  long  stories  rather  than  novels. 
The  theme  is  somewhat  similar  to  that  of  Seser  Kavita. 
That  is,  a man’s  love  for  woman  may  have  two  aspects  ; he 
may  at  the  same  time  love  one  woman  as  wife  and  another 
as  lover,  and  there  is  no  inherent  opposition  between  the 
two  forms  of  love  although  conflict  is  not  debarred.  In 
Seser  Kavita  there  is  no  conflict ; in  Dui  Bon  there  is  a 
conflict  but  it  ends  in  harmony,  and  in  Malanca  there  is 
conflict  for  the  woman  but  none  for  the  man. 

Car  Adhyay  (Four  Chapters,  1934)  was  written  in 
Ceylon.  It  is  a novel  no  doubt,  but  in  length  it  is  little  more 
than  a long  story.  Here  is  an  attempt  to  assess  the  real 
motives  and  values  of  the  revolutionary  activities  in  Bengal 
that  followed  the  Non-co-operation  movement,  and  Tagore 
has  shown  that  however  exalted  a patriotic  or  philanthropic 
motive  might  be,  it  js  never  a man’s  duty  to  follow  it  if  it  is 
against  the  grain  of  his  personality  or  if  it  goes  against  the 


316 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


dictates  of  his  conscience  or  against  his  sense  of  higher 
morality.  Tagore’s  profound  sympathy  for  the  independence 
movement  and  his  admiration  and  sympathy  for  the  young 
men  and  young  women  who  cared  little  for  their  life  and 
happiness  in  the  cause  of  the  country,  has  found  glowing 
expression  in  this  last  novel  of  his.  At  the  same  time  his 
penetrating  insight  and  far-reaching  vision  have  not  missed 
the  lurking  pitfalls  of  a bloody  revolution.  That  Tagore’s 
analysis  and  assessment  of  the  revolutionary  movement  was 
essentially  true  and  correct  was  proved  in  an  indirect  way 
by  the  lukewarm  acceptance  of  the  novel  by  the  general 
readers  when  it  was  first  published. 

There  is  a preface  where  Tagore  had  made  a passing 
reference  to  a personal  meeting  with  Brahmabandhav 
Upadhyay,  one  of  the  front-rank  leaders  in  the  early  revolu- 
tionary movement,  who  was  one  of  his  chief  assistants  when 
the  Santiniketan  school  was  first  started  (1901).  It  was  taken 
exception  to  for  no  plausible  reason  whatsoever,  and  Tagore 
bowed  down  to  public  opinion  and  withdrew  the  preface. 

As  a writer  of  the  essay  Tagore  was  distinguished  from  the 
very  start,  although  his  fame  as  a poet  had  for  a long  time 
eclipsed  his  reputation  as  a writer  of  prose.  Maturity  in 
prose  came  to  Tagore  earlier  than  in  poetry,  and  his  first 
critical  essay  (1876)  shows  such  an  originality  of  approach  as 
was  not  then  expected  from  any  other  writer  young  or  old. 
Since  then  Tagore  never  discontinued  writing  essays  on 
various  topics.  They  comprise  literary  appreciation  and 
criticism,  social  problems  and  political  dilemma,  religion  and 
philosophy,  music  and  grammar,  travel  and  autobiography, 
and  wit  and  humour.  Letters  form  another  important  cate- 
gory of  Tagore’s  prose  writings. 

Tagore’s  essays,  whatever  may  be  their  subject-matter, 
belong  more  to  the  .category  of  creative  art  than  to  the 
category  of  critical  analysis.  His  essays  on  Kalidasa’s  poetry 
and  drama  and  on  Bana’s  Kadambari  reveal  beauty  and 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


317 


depth  that  were  undiscovered  till  then.  As  an  interpreter  of 
the  soul  of  India  through  the  ages  Tagore  has  no  rival.  He 
has  the  same  deep  understanding  and  admiration  for  Kabir 
of  Banaras  and  Lalan  Fakir  of  Kushtia  as  he  has  for  the 
Rishis  of  the  Upanishads.  It  was  he  who^first  drew  the 
attention  of  the  cultured  world  to  the  mystic  poetry  of 
mediaeval  and  modern  India.  Nothing  escapes  his  attention 
if  there  is  any  element  of  abiding,  beauty  and  universal  truth. 
Nobody  had  given  any  thought  to  the  nursery  rhymes  in 
Bengal  before  Tagore  wrote  his  superb  essays  on  them.  It 
was  he  who  made  the  first  collection  of  the  nursery  rhymes 
in  India.  On  modern  literature  Tagore  still  remains  the 
best  critic.  His  Pancab  hut.  (The  Five  Elements,  1897)  is 
a book  of  literary  and  esthetic  criticisms  and  it  is  as  delight- 
ful reading  as  any  work  of  poetry  or  fiction.  Tagore 
was  interested  in  Bengali  grammar  and  philology.  His 
Sabdatattva  (Science  of  Words,  1909)  contains  some  funda- 
mental discoveries  in  the  phonology  of  the  modern  Bengali 
language.  Bahgla  Bhasa  Paricay  (Introduction  to  the  Bengali 
Language,  1939)  contains  thoughtful  suggestions  for  the 
grammarians  of  Bengali. 

Tagore  has  been  the  best  interpreter  of  the  history  of 
ancient  India.  His  keen  interest  in  the  past  led  him  to  the 
study  of  Buddhist  texts  in  the  original.  This  study  has  been 
fruitful  not  only  in  poetry  and  drama  but  in  essays  also, 
i Bharatvarser  Itihaser  Dhara  (The  Trend  in  the  History  of 
India,  1911)  reveals  to  us  the  fundamental  tendencies  in  the 
\ history  of  our  country  from  the  earliest  days  of  Aryan 
\ occupation.  It  may  not  be,  strictly  speaking,  an  historical 
lessay,  but  it  is  more  than  that. 

Tagore’s  essays  on  religious  topics  and  his  weekly 
sermons  at  Santiniketan  are  valuable  as  literature  and  their 
sublime  tone  and  deep  earnestness  have  made  them  univer- 
sally acceptable. 

In  some  of  his  political  essays,  specially  in  Svadesi  Samaj 
(Indigenous  Society,  1904)  and  in  his  presidential  address  at 


318 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


the  Provincial  Conference  at  Pabna  (1906),  Tagore  drew  up 
a programme  for  rural  reconstruction  of  our  country  which  is 
even  now  far  in  advance  of  any  outlined  by  the  Government 
of  the  present  day. 

The  first  book  of  travel  by  Tagore  is  Yurop-Pravasir  Patra 
(Letters  from  a Sojourner  in  Europe,  1881).  It  is  in  the  form 
of  letters  to  relatives  and  friends  at  home  written  in  a 
colloquial  style.  Since  then  he  published  six  volumes  and 
several  uncollected  essays  on  his  extensive  travels  in  India 
and  abroad. 

Jivansmrti  (Reminiscences,  1912)  is  Tagore’s  autobiography 
of  his  early  life,  from  the  dawn  of  memory  up  to  the  publica- 
tion of  Kadi  O Komal.  Tagore’s  prose  style  presents  here 
a sinuousness  and  flexibility  that  is  entirely  captivating.  In 
self-analysis  and  estimation  Tagore  has  shown  rare  acuteness 
and  detachment.  Chelebela  (Boyhood  Days,  1940)  is  written 
for  the  young  but  is  no  less  delightful  to  the  old.  The  stories 
of  Galpasalpa  (Chit-Chats,  1941),  also  written  for  the  young, 
are  based  on  episodes  of  his  infancy  and  early  boyhood. 

The  pen  of  Rabindranath  Tagore  raised  letter  writing 
to  the  status  of  a literary  genre  in  Bengali.  Throughout  his 
long  life  Tagore  wrote  innumerable  letters  and  almost  all  of 
them  are  full  of  literary  grace  and  rich  in  thoughtful  content. 
Some  of  Tagore’s  letters  are  available  in  several  volumes  but 
the  bulk  of  them  are  awaiting  collection  and  publication. 
Chinnapatra  (Torn  Letters,  1912)  contains  excerpts  from 
letters  written  to  friends  and  relations.  For  a deeper  under- 
standing of  some  of  the  contemporaneous  poems  and  short 
stories  Chinnapatra  is  indispensable. 

Tagore’s  last  role  as  a creative  artist  was  that  of  the 
painter.  He  had  no  previous  practice  or  training  in  drawing 
or  painting,  but  in  his  early  sixties  he  came  out  all  on  a 
sudden  as  a master  of  his  own  peculiar  style  of  art.  It  started 
from  the  crisscross  scratches  in  the  rough  copy  of  his 
poems.  These  idle  scratches,  as  Tagore  once  wrote  to 
a friend,  would  urge  him  subconsciously  at  it  were  to  give 


RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 


319 


them  utterance.  The  inspiration  and  urge  of  Tagore  as 
an  artist  is  different  from  his  literary  inspiration  and  urge. 
In  the  latter  the  idea  emerged  first  and  then  it  took  shape  in 
writing  while  in  the  former  the  line  came  first  and  the  idea 
followed  as  the  shape  grew.  The  roots  of  his  pictorial  art  go 
deeper  than  those  of  his  literary  art ; they  reach  down  to  the 
subconscious,  and  in  a sense  they  are  complementary  to  their 
literary  counterparts.  The  grotesque,  the  gloomy  and  the 
mysterious  feature  in  his  drawings  and  paintings  but  not  in 
his  poems.  This  perhaps  makes  Tagore  the  completest  man 
of  art  the  world  has  ever  known. 


23 


BEGINNING  OF  THE 
TWENTIETH  CENTURY 


Recrudescence  of  orthodoxy  in  religious  and  cultural 
thought  loomed  large  as  a menace  to  progress  in  intellectual 
and  literary  activities  in  the  last  years  of  the  nineteenth 
century.  Against  this  Rabindranath  Tagore  fought  almost 
single-handed  and  won  the  first  round.  The  worthy  adver- 
saries were  silenced  but  the  smaller  reactionaries  could  not 
be  eliminated  easily,  as  they  had  the  weekly  Vangavasi  as 
their  most  vociferous  organ  and  had  satirists  like  Yogendra- 
chandra  Basu,  Indranath  Banerji  and  Kaliprasanna  Kavya- 
visharad  as  their  vanguard.  No  doubt  Sanjivani  voiced  the 
opinion  of  the  advanced  Brahmo  community  as  well  as  of 
the  unbiased  educated  men  in  general.  But  Sanjivani, 
edited  by  Krishnakumar  Mitra,  was  more  interested  in 
politics  than  in  religion  and  culture.  So  the  Tagores  and 
their  friends  felt  the  necessity  of  a weekly  journal  that  would 
be  more  comprehensive  in  its  scope,  and  the  result  was 
Hitavadi  (April  1891).  Dwijendranath  Tagore  chose  for  its 
motto  the  line  from  Bharavi:  hitam  manohari  ca  durlabham 
vacah  (Rare  is  the  speech  that  is  good  as  well  as  pleasing). 
Rabindranath  was  put  in  charge  of  the  literary  section  and 
to  entertain  the  readers  he  took  to  writing  short  stories,  six 
of  which  were  published  in  the  first  few  issues  of  the  paper. 
The  paper  ran  at  a considerable  loss  and  the  sponsors  handed 
it  over  to  a new  management.  Rabindranath’s  connection 
with  Hitavadi  was  soon  severed. 

But  the  new  urge  remained  persistent.  Tagore  felt 
that  it  was  now  time  that  fresh  minds  should  be  brought  to 
literature,  who  would  strive  to  reduce  the  growing  gap 
between  our  life  and  literature  and  to  create  a healthy  atmos- 
phere of  independent  and  progressive  thinking  and  would 
thus  bring  in  new  openings  in  the  literary  field.  With  these 
ends  in  view  Tagore  started  the  monthly  Sadhana  (November 


BEGINNING  OF  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 


321 


1891).  He  nominated  as  editor  his  young  nephew  Sudhindra- 
nath  Tagore  who  had  just  obtained  the  Bachelor’s  degree  in 
Arts,  but  the  editorial  work  was  done  by  him  and  he  was 
sometimes  the  sole  contributor  of  an  issue.  Sadhana  ran 
for  four  years,  and  during  the  last  year  the  name  of  Tagore 
appeared  as  editor.  The  motto  of  Sadhana  speaks  for 
itself. 

Go  ahead,  go  ahead,  brother.  To  lag  behind  and  to 

stay  put  is  no  good.  Why  should  we  keep  the  dead  alive, 

brother?  Go  ahead,  go  ahead,  brother. 

Tagore  made  a double  call  for  help.  He  wanted  as 
writers  some  of  his  worthy  friends  who  did  not  write  but  did 
think  independently,  and  who  were  well  read  in  European 
literature  and  therefore  possessed  the  essential  equipment  of 
a modern  writer.  There  were  three  such  persons  in  his 
view:  Asutosh  Chaudhuri  then  a barrister-at-law  (later  a 
judge  of  the  Calcutta  High  Court),  Lokendranath  Palit  an 
Indian  Civil  Servant  and  Pramathanath  (later  Pramatha) 
Chaudhuri,  a young  brother  of  Asutosh,  who  later  became 
a barrister-at-law.  Asutosh  had  married  a niece  of  Tagore 
and  the  younger  Chaudhuri  followed  suit.  Palit  for  some 
time  was  a fellow  student  of  Tagore  in  the  University  College, 
London.  Asutosh  had  written  a few  good  articles  on  some 
English  poets  in  Bhdratl.  He  was  now  a rising  member  of 
the  High  Court  Bar  and  could  not  be  weaned  away  from  the 
practice  of  law.  Younger  Chaudhuri  came  diffidently,  and 
as  he  was  soon  to  go  away  to  England  for  qualifying  himself 
for  the  Bar  he  could  contribute  only  a paper  or  two.  Palit 
alone  was  left  as  the  main  hope.  At  that  time  Palit  used  to 
write  verse  in  English.  One  of  his  poems  was  translated  by 
Tagore  into  Bengali  and  this  translation  is  incorporated  in 
Mdnasl.  Palit  also  attempted  Bengali  verse  but  none  of 
it  is  known  except  a very  few  pieces  published  in  Sadhana 
and  Bhdratl.  But  Palit  felt  no  inclination  to  come  out  as  a 
writer.  He  would  rather  have  discussions  on  literature  by 

21 


322 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


correspondence.  On  this  question  he  and  Tagore  exchanged 
some  letters,  and  Tagore  on  the  whole  agreed  with  him. 
So  Tagore  wrote  back  to  Palit  on  the  eve  of  the  publication 
of  the  first  issue  of  Sadhana : 

Your  suggestion  is  very  right.  It  is  much  easier  to  write 
to  a friend  than  to  contribute  articles  to  monthlies  as  our 
thoughts,  like  wild  deer,  vanish  quickly  when  they 
encounter  unfamiliar  beings.  On  the  other  hand  stereo- 
typed thoughts,  like  the  tame  deer,  do  not  show  the 
sprightliness  and  spontaneity  of  the  woods. 

There  need  not  be  any  thorough  or  systematic  discussion 
on  a particular  topic  and  there  is  no  necessity  of  arriving 
at  a conclusion.  It  would  suffice  if  the  impact  of  the  two 
minds  produces  currents  of  thought,  sparkling  and  alter- 
nating with  light  and  shade.  In  the  literary  field  there 
is  seldom  any  opportunity  for  this.  There  everybody 
is  eagef  to  give  a definite  and  final  opinion.  For  this 
reason  our  monthly  journals  have  become  museums  of 
dead  thoughts  and  opinions. 

A truth  is  good  and  wholesome  if  it  is  connected  in  some 
way  or  other  with  the  life  of  man. 

Let  us  try  to  express  what  we  feel  as  a truth  in  such 
a manner  that  the  reader  can  forthwith  feel  that  it  is 
a revelation  from  his  own  mind.  Let  my  own  opinions 
and  feeling  of  good  and  bad,  my  own  doubts  and  beliefs, 
and  my  own  past  and  present,  be  amalgamated  with  it 
and  then  only  the  truth  would  not  come  out  as  a dead 
lump. 

I think  this  is  a basic  principle  of  literature. 

Tagore’s  aims  were  not  wholly  realized.  Palit  could  not 
be  drawn  to  the  literary  field  and  Tagore  was  left  alone  to 
work  it  out.  But  he  succeeded  in  drawing  the  attention  of 
some  of  the  young  writers  to  the  life  around.  He  also 
attempted  to  create  an  interest  in  our  cultural  history.  Thus 
he  wrote  in  the  prefatory  article  in  the  first  issue  of  Aitihasik 


BEGINNING  OF  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 


323 


Citra  (1899),  an  historical  journal  edited  by  Akshaykumar 
Maitreya : 

One  can  acquire  scholarship  by  committing  to  memory 
all  the  books  on  history  written  by  the  foreigners  and 
by  securing  high  marks  in  the  examinations.  But 
scholarship  can  never  be  the  only  end  for  the  efforts  in 
collecting  the  materials  and  writing  the  history  of  our 
own  country.  It  helps  to  stir  our  stagnant  thoughts  and 
make  them  flow  in  a current,  and  by  that  attempt  we 
achieve  the  health  of  our  mind  and  our  thoughts  become 
alive. 

Among  the  few  distinguished  contributors  to  Sadhana 
were  Ramendrasundar  Trivedi  (1864-1919)  and  Umeschandra 
Batabyal  (1852-1898).  Trivedi  was  a science  professor  in 
a Calcutta  college  and  later  its  Principal.  He  was  deeply 
interested  in  the  study  of  our  ancient  religion,  culture  and 
philosophy  and  also  in  the  Bengali  language  and  literature. 
He  is  one  of  the  best  known  essayists  in  the  language  and  his 
writings  are  remarkable  for  deep  and  varied  scholarship  and 
for  compact  and  adequate  expression.  As  an  intelligent 
writer  and  as  a nationalist  he  was  considered  as  second  only 
to  Tagore.  Prakriti  (Nature,  1896)  is  his  first  book  of  essays 
on  scientific  subjects.  Jijnasa  (Query,  1903)  and  Karma- 
kathd  (Talks  on  Karma,  1913)  are  collections  of  his  reflective 
and  philosophical  essays.  The  linguistic  papers  are  collected 
in  Sabdakatha  (Talks  on  the  Word,  1917).  Three  more 
volumes  of  collected  essays  were  published  posthumously. 
He  translated  into  Bengali  Aitareya  Brahmana,  the  oldest 
of  the  Vedic  prose  texts.  Jogeshchandra  Ray  Vidyanidhi 
(1859-1956)  was  another  science  professor  deeply  interested 
in  our  old  culture  and  in  the  Bengali  language.  Ray  was 
a rather  late-comer  in  the  literary  field  and  he  was  not 
a contributor  to  Sadhana.  He  wrote  in  a simple  and  forceful 
style  of  his  own.  He  tried  to  simplify  the  Bengali  typography, 
and  his  attempts  smoothed  the  way  for  the  adoption  of  the 


324 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Bengali  linotype.  Ray’s  work  on  Bengali  dialect  vocabulary 
is  an  outstanding  contribution  to  Bengali  linguistics. 
Among  his  valuable  research  works  is  to  be  included  Amader 
Jyotisl  O Jyotis  (Our  Astronomers  and  Astronomy,  1903). 

Umeshcandra  Batabyal  (1852-98)  was  a Sanskrit  scholar 
with  a critical  mind.  His  articles  on  Vedic  history  and  inter- 
pretation and  on  the  Sankhya  philosophy  are  important 
contributions  in  the  language.  The  articles  on  the  Sankhya 
philosophy  published  in  Sadhand  were  published  posthu- 
mously under  the  title  Sahkhyadarsan  (1899). 

Akshaykumar  Maitreya  (1861-1930)  was  a lawyer  prac- 
tising at  Rajshahi.  He  was  deeply  interested  in  the  history 
of  our  country,  and  was  one  of  the  principal  contributors  to 
Sadhand.  Maitreya  was  one  of  the  pioneers  in  archaeological 
research  in  India  in  the  present  century,  and  he  was  one  of 
the  founders  of  Varendra  Research  Society  at  Rajshahi.  He 
was  an  able  writer  of  Bengali  prose,  and  was  considered  as 
one  of  our  leading  historians  during  the  days  of  the  Swadeshi 
movement.  His  works  include  Sirajaddauld  (1897),  Mir- 
kasim  (1904)  and  Phirihgi  Vanik  (The  European  Merchants, 
1922).  The  first  two  books  helped  much  to  popularize  the 
life-story  of  the  last  two  Nabobs  of  Bengal  to  the  educated 
Bengali.  They  show  the  first  attempts  on  the  part  of  Indian 
scholars  to  read  history  independently  and  from  a nationalistic 
viewpoint. 

In  this  connection  another  literary  figure  also  looms 
large.  Sakharam  Ganes  Deuskar  (d.  1916)  was  born  of  a 
Maratha  family  settled  for  generations  at  Deoghar  which  was 
then  within  the  boundaries  of  Bengal.  He  had  read  Bengali 
at  school  and  he  spoke  and  wrote  it  much  better  than  the 
common  writers  of  the  language.  Deuskar  began  his  career 
as  a school  teacher,  but  the  political  movement  led  by 
Bal . Gangadhar  Tilak  in  Maharashtra  moved  him  as  it  did 
hundreds  of  other  young  men  in  Bengal.  Bengal  now  felt 
a curious  interest  in  Maratha  history,  specially  in  the  life  and 
activities  of  the  nineteenth  century  Maratha  men  and  women 


BEGINNING  OF  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 


325 


who  had  resisted  the  British  power  in  India.  Deuskar  took 
upon  himself  the  task  of  writing  their  history.  The  result 
of  his  investigations  were  incorporated  in  the  following 
books:  Bajirdo  (1899),  Jhansir  Rajkumar  (The  Prince  of 
Jhansi,  1901)  and  Anandt  Bai  (1903).  Deuskar  was  also 
interested  in  some  of  the  burning  problems  of  the  country 
as  is  shewn  by  his  pamphlets  Krsaker  Saruanas  (Ruination  of 
the  Cultivator,  1904),  Deser  Katha  (Talks  on  the  Country, 
1904),  etc.  Deuskar  was  a successful  journalist  ; for  some 
years  he  was  the  assistant  editor  of  Hitavadi. 

Among  the  younger  contributors  to  Sad  hand  the  most 
promising  was  Balendranath  Tagore  (1870-99),  a nephew  in 
whom  Rabindranath  Tagore  took  great  interest.  Balendra- 
nath was  a student  of  Calcutta  Sanskrit  College  and  was  well 
read  in  English  too.  He  wrote  prose  and  verse  but  his  real 
mettle  was  prose.  His  prose  writings  are  all  essays  mainly  on 
our  ancient  literature  and  art.  Some  of  the  essays  which  had 
appeared  in  Sadhand  and  Bhdrati  were  collected  in  a small 
volume  entitled  Citra  O Kavya  (Picture  and  Poetry,  1894). 
Balendranath  published  his  poems,  almost  exclusively 
sonnets,  in  two  brochures:  Madhavika  (1896)  and  Sravani 
(1897).  These  are  all  love  poems,  colourful  and  sensuous, 
sometimes  revealing  the  influence  of  his  uncle’s  poetry.  The 
young  Tagore’s  writings,  prose  and  poetry,  had  promise  which 
was  not  destined  to  be  fulfilled. 

One  of  the  chief  directions  of  the  activities  of  the 
Sadhand  period  was  for  understanding  the  life  of  the  common 
people.  The  common  man  now  took  a forefront  in  literature 
through  the  short  stories  of  Tagore.  Tagore  also  invited 
some  of  his  young  friends  to  treat  the  uneventful  life  of  the 
ordinary  men  and  women  in  short  stories  and  sketches.  The 
first  writer  to  respond  to  his  call  was  his  old  friend  Srischandra 
Majumdar  (d.  1908)  who  was  then  a revenue  officer  posted 
in  rural  Bihar.  He  wrote  for  Sadhand  some  sketches  revealing 
the  life  of  the  peasantry  in  south  Bihar.  Majumdar’s  younger 
brother  Saileschandra  (d.  1914)  also  contributed  some  stories 


326 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


and  sketches  describing  mainly  the  frustrations  and  futilities 
that  were  the  common  lot  of  the  lower  middle  class  young 
men  of  Bengal.  These  stories  and  sketches  were  collected 
under  the  title  Citra-Vicitra  (Pictures  and  Varieties,  1902). 
Saratkumari  ChaudhuranI  (1861,1920),  wife  of  Akshaychandra 
Chaudhuri,  both  family  friends  of  the  Tagores,  wrote  some 
fine  sketches  of  the  women’s  department  in  the  Bengali  home. 
These  were  later  collected  in  the  volumes  Subhavivaha 
(Marriage  Ceremony,  1905).  One  of  the  most  outstanding 
books  of  this  type  is  Jatindramohan  Sinha’s  (1858-1937) 
Udisyar  Citra  (Sketches  from  Orissa,  1903)  depicting  the  daily 
life  of  the  Oria  people,  rich  and  poor.  These  sketches  were 
first  serialized  in  Bharati  (1900-1902).  Sinha  was  a govern- 
ment revenue  officer  posted  in  Orissa.  He  wrote  some  novels 
and  stories  also.  Latterly,  however,  he  became  a champion 
of  the  orthodox  school  that  denounced  some  works  of  Tagore 
and  produced  the  book  Sdhityer  Svasthyaraksa  (Preservation 
of  the  Health  of  Literature,  1922). 

Prabhatkumar  Mukherji  (1873-1932),  the  best  known 
short  story  writer  after  Tagore,  started  his  literary  life  as 
a writer  of  verse,  like  any  other  literary-minded  educated 
young  man  of  the  time.  It  was  Tagore  who  advised  him  to 
give  it  up  and  to  write  prose  and  preferably  short  stories. 
His  first  attempt  in  prose  writing  was  a review  of  Tagore’s 
newly  published  book  of  poems,  Citra.  The  review  was 
published  in  Dasi  in  May  1896.  This  was  the  first  open 
defence  of  Tagore’s  poetry  against  the  attacks  by  the  ignorant, 
the  prejudiced  and  the  spiteful.  Mukherji’s  first  short  story, 
obviously  an  adaptation  from  English,  appeared  four  months 
later.  About  two  years  later  he  started  writing  short  stories 
regularly  for  Bharati,  and  his  first  four  original  stories 
appeared  when  Tagore  was  the  editor  of  the  magazine  (1898- 
99).  Mukherji  went  to  England  (1901)  to  qualify  himself 
for  the  Bar  but  he  did  not  stop  writing  stories  for  Bharati. 
He  wrote  his  first  novel  Ramasundari  when  he  was  in 
England.  The  scene  in  some  chapters  of  the  novel  was  laid 


BEGINNING  OF  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 


327 


in  Kashmir.  Mukherji  had  never  been  to  that  part  of  India, 
and  he  gathered  the  necessary  scenic  and  topographical 
details  from  the  British  Museum.  His  description  of  the 
country  was  so  vivid  that  on  reading  the  novel  for  a second 
time  Tagore  was  allured  to  visit  Kashmir  (1914).  After  his 
return  to  India  Mukherji  practised  law  first  at  Rangpur,  then 
at  Gaya  and  finally  at  Calcutta.  But  he  did  give  up  law 
for  literature  although  he  remained  till  the  last  a lecturer 
in  law  at  the  University  Law  College,  Calcutta.  His 
main  occupation  for  the  last  ten  or  twelve  years  was  the 
editing  of  the  monthly  magazine  Manasi  O Marmavanl,  in 
collaboration  with  its  sponsor  Jagadindranath  Ray,  Maharaja 
of  Natore. 

Mukherji’s  books  of  short  stories  number  more  than  a 
dozen.  Of  these  the  best  known  are:  Navakatha  (New 
Tales, 1900),  Sodasi  (Sweet  Sixteen,  1906),  Desi  O Bilati 
(Native  and  Foreign,  1910),  Galpanjali  (Story  Offerings, 
1913),  Galpavithi  (Garden  Row  of  Stories,  1916),  Patrapuspa 
(Leaves  and  Blossoms,  1917),  Gahandr  Baksa  (The  Jewelery 
Box,  1921),  Hatas  Premik  (The  Disappointed  Lover,  1923), 
Nutan  Bau  (The  Newly  Married  Wife,  1928),  and  Jamata 
Babaji  (Dear  Son-in-law,  1931).  He  wrote  some  novels  also: 
Ramasundari  (1907),  Navin  Sannyasi  (The  Young  Sannyasi, 
1912),  Ratnadip  (The  Jewel  Lamp,  1915),  J warier  Mulya 
(A  Price  for  Life,  1916),  Sindur-Kouta  (The  Vermilion  Box, 
1919),  etc.  All  his  novels  were  first  serialized  in  periodicals. 

Mukherji’s  novels  are  not  good  as  histories  but  they 
are  always  readable.  The  plot  has  generally  a factual  basis 
and  incidents  are  spotlighted  like  short  stories.  Some  of  the 
minor  characters  are  brilliantly  drawn.  But  there  is  seldom 
an  organic  wholeness  and  growth  which  is  expected  in 
a novel.  He  was  interested  in  situations  and  behaviours 
in  a limited  field.  This  stood  in  the  way  of  his  being 
a successful  novelist. 

Success  in  story  writing  came  easily  to  Mukherji,  as  he 
did,  from  the  start,  avoid  the  influence  of  Tagore.  Tagore 


328 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


saw  life  to  its  inner  depths  but  Mukherji  saw  it  on  the  upper 
surface  which  is  visible  to  us.  Mukherji’s  stories  reveal 
a spirit  of  bonhomie  and  a love  for  life  that  is  always  worth 
living,  in  spite  of  trials  and  sorrows,  failures  and  breakdowns, 
a life  that  is  familiar.  Mukherji  was  born  in  a West  Bengal 
village,  had  his  school  and  college  education  in  Bihar,  had 
lived  for  a time  in  a Calcutta  students’  mess  house,  had  been 
to  Britain  and  for  some  years  in  his  early  career  as  a barrister- 
at-law  had  had  the  experience  of  coming  in  contact  with 
people  in  north  Bengal  and  south  Bihar.  Everywhere  he 
was  attracted  by  the  life  and  conduct  of  man.  Even  animals 
were  not  outside  his  sympathetic  notice.  He  was  perhaps 
the  first  to  write  animal  stories  in  Bengali  where  the  beast 
is  an  equal  partner  with  man.  Life  of  the  lower  middle 
class,  specially  students  and  young  men  just  started  on  their 
career,  was  specially  attractive  to  him.  He  has  given  us 
invaluable  pictures  of  the  life  in  students’  mess  houses  in 
Calcutta,  the  life  in  isolated  railway  quarters  in  outside 
stations,  the  life  in  the  mufassil  bar,  the  life  in  the  Bengali 
quarter  in  Banaras  and  the  life  of  Bengali  young  men  as 
students  in  Edinborough  and  London.  It  was  Mukherji  who 
first  extended  the  horizons  of  the  Bengali  life  beyond  Bengal 
and  even  beyond  India. 

There  were  a few  others  who  wrote  some  good  short 
stories.  Of  them  two  are  worth  mention.  Sudhindranath 
Tagore  (1869-1929)  a nephew  of  Rabindranath,  who  as  we. 
have  seen  was  chosen  as  the  editor  of  Sadhana,  produced 
some  good  short  stories  collected  later  in  several  small 
volumes:  Manjusa  (1903),  Karahka  (1912)  and  Gitrali 
(1916),  etc.  Surendranath  Majumdar  (d.  1931)  was  a revenue 
officer  in  Bihar.  He  had  good  training  in  classical  music. 
He  wrote  a few  short  stories  which  had  appeared  exclusively 
in  Sahitya  and  were  collected  in  two  rather  small  volumes: 
Chota  Chota  Galpa  (1915)  and  Karmayoger  Tika  (1918). 
Majumdar’s  stories  are  written  in  a crisp  and  syncopated 
style  of  his  own,  which  is  entirely  suitable  to  the  light-hearted 


BEGINNING,  OF  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 


329 


treatment  of  the  theme.  But  his  stories  have  never  been  as 
widely  read  as  they  should  have  been  ; the  reason  seems  to  be 
two-fold:  the  style  appears  to  be  rather  stumbling  to  the 
common  reader  and  the  stories  appeared  in  a periodical  which 
was  not  as  widely  circulated  at  Bharati. 

Tagore  started  Sadhana  after  he  had  just  given  up 
charge  of  the  literary  section  of  the  weekly  Hitavadi.  A 
year  earlier  the  monthly  magazine  Sahitya  was  started  by 
Sureshchandra  Samajpati  (1870-1921),  a grandson  and  ward 
of  Vidyasagar.  In  a few  years  Sahitya  began  to  draw  the 
attention  of  the  reading  public,  not  only  for  the  reading 
matter  but  for  the  illustrations  as  well.  It  was  the  first 
magazine  in  Bengali  that  regularly  published  halftone 
reproductions  of  the  best  productions  of  mediaeval  and 
modern  European  art.  Another  regular  feature  was  the 
summary  of  important  papers  and  books  published  in 
English.  Trenchant  criticism,  not  unoften  with  malice,  of 
contemporary  Bengali  journals,  was  to  the  common  reader 
the  most  enjoyable  item  in  an  issue  of  the  journal.  The 
contributors  were  mostly  well  known.  Devendranath  Sen’s 
poems  appeared  regularly,  and  also  Aksay  Kumar  Baral’s  tardy 
efforts  as  often  as  they  were  produced.  Tagore  contributed 
poems  very  occasionally  and  only  in  the  first  few  years. 
Young  writers  of  verse  always  found  ready  welcome  in 
Sahitya.  Some  of  these  young  writers  were  not  often  disposed 
kindly  to  Tagore,  and  they  gradually  made  the  periodical 
hostile  to  Tagore  and  his  writings.  From  1899  the  literary 
field  in  Calcutta  was  sharply  divided  into  two  camps:  the 
Tagores’  (or  the  Bharati ) and  Samajpati’s  (or  the  Sahitya). 
But  some  of  the  major  contributors  of  Samajpati’s  paper,  for 
instance  Devendranath  Sen  and  Ramendrasundar  Trivedi, 
never  became  camp-followers  of  Samajpati.  The  'neutrals 
also  were  not  few.  Among  them  were  many  young  writers  of 
verse.  By  1905  the  Sahitya  coterie  came  under  the  leadership 
of  Dwijendralal  Ray  and  became  openly  hostile  to  Tagore. 
But  Pravasi  (started  in  1903  from  Allahabad  by  Ramananda 


330 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Chatterji  the  editor  of  Modern  Review)  took  up  the  cause 
of  Tagore  by  giving  prominence  to  his  writings  in  its  pages. 
From  1905  up  to  Tagore’s  death  (1941)  Pravasi  was  almost 
the  exclusive  periodical  that  had  the  privilege  of  the  first 
publication  of  Tagore’s  writings.  Chatterji’s  journal  was 
also  a staunch  supporter  of  the  new  school  of  Oriental  Art 
founded  by  Abanindranath  Tagore  and  for  a long  time 
Pravasi  was  the  most  important  journal  published  in  an 
Indian  language.  It  stood  for  progressiveness  in  literature, 
art  and  social  reform  as  well  as  in  constructive  political 
thought. 

In  1901  Srischandra  Majumdar,  the  novelist  and  a close 
friend  of  Tagore,  revived  Vangadarsan  with  Tagore  as  the 
editor.  A few  months  earlier  the  poet  had  started  his  school 
(Brahmavidyalay)  at  Santiniketan  and  had  for  some  months 
Brahmabandhav  Upadhyay  (1861-1910)  as  his  assistant. 
Upadhyay  was  a forceful  and  dynamic  personality.  He  was 
born  a high  class  (Kulin)  brahman,  embraced  Christianity 
(first  the  Protestant,  then  the  Catholic  faith)  and  finally 
became  a Christian-Vedantist  sannyasi.  He  was  perhaps  the 
guiding  soul  in  the  early  revolutionary  movement  in  Bengal 
and  conducted  its  fiery  organ  Sandhya.  Upadhyay  bore  the 
promise  of  a very  provocative  writer  of  prose  in  the  first  year 
of  the  new  series  of  Vangadarsan. 

Among  the  young  poets  contributing  to  the  journal, 
undoubtedly  the  best  was  Priyamvada  Devi  (1871-1935),  who 
came  from  a gifted  family.  (Her  mother  Prasannamayi  Devi 
was  well  known  for  her  books  of  verse  published  in  the 
eighties  of  the  last  century.  Two  of  her  maternal  uncles 
were  Asutos  and  Pramatha  Caudhuri.)  She  had  already 
published  a book  of  sonnets,  Renu  (1900),  which  was  very 
well  received.  Priyamvada  continued  to  write  verse  to  the 
very  last,  and  some  of  her  later  poems  are  collected  in  three 
small  books:  Patralekha  (1910),  Amsu  (1927)  and  Campa 
O Patal  (1939).  Priyamvada’s  poems  are  redolent  with  the 
soft  fragrance  of  a woman’s  heart  ; the  tone  is  quiet,  tender 


BEGINNING  OF  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY  331 

and  subdued.  It  will  be  sufficient  to  say  that  Tagore  was 
led  to  think  that  some  of  her  very  short  poems  that  had 
appeared  without  signature  in  V angadarsan  were  from  his 
own  pen. 

Another  promising  writer  of  verse  in  V angadarsan  was 
Satichandra  Ray  (1882-1904),  a very  young  teacher  in  Santi- 
niketan  who  had  won  the  affection  of  the  poet.  An  untimely 
death  removed  the  possibility  of  the  emergence  of  a very 
capable  writer  in  Bengali. 

On  the  occasion  of  Tagore’s  completion  of  fifty  years 
Bangiya  Sahitya  Parisad,  led  by  Ramendrasundar  Trivedi, 
Jagadischandra  Basu,  Praphullachandra  Ray,  Saradacharan 
Mitra,  Manindrachandra  Nandi  (Maharaja  of  Cossimbazar), 
Jagadindranath  Ray  (Maharaja  of  Natore)  and  some  other 
prominent  men  of  Bengal,  organized  a reception  to  the  poet 
at  the  Town  Hall  in  Calcutta  on  January  28,  1912.  An 
enthusiastically  organized  and  artistically  arranged  celebra- 
tion like  this  had  never  been  held  before.  The  malicious 
voice  of  Tagore’s  detracters  was  completely  drowned  and 
was  finally  smothered  in  1913  when  the  Nobel  Prize  came 
to  him.  The  real  significance  of  this  award  to  an  Indian 
has  been  mentioned  in  the  foregoing  chapter.  But  nothing 
can  be  more  erroneous  than  the  belief  that  Tagore’s  first 
public  recognition  came  from  the  West.  The  Town  Hall 
reception  made  history  in  India. 


24 


WORLD  WAR  TO 
NON-CO-OPERATION 


The  revolutionary  movement  in  Bengal  went  underground 
under  the  repressive  policy  of  the  Government  and  in 
consequence  it  drew  sympathy  and  all  possible  help  from 
the  younger  generation.  The  more  sensible  of  the  older 
generation  admired  the  stout-heartedness  and  spirit  of 
extreme  self-sacrifice  displayed  but  at  the  same  time  they 
were  fully  alive  to  the  harm  the  movement  was  sure  to  do 
to  the  morale  of  a people  saturated  for  innumerable  genera- 
tions in  the  spirit  of  tolerance  and  non-violence.  More 
regrettable  was  the  loss  of  intelligent  man-power  in  the 
constructive  programmes  of  social,  intellectual  and  industrial 
advancement.  Tagore  was  perhaps  the  only  man  who  had 
been  from  the  very  beginning  fully  aware  of  these  very  serious 
threats  to  the  all-round  progress  of  the  country.  But  what 
perturbed  him  even  more  was  a growing  tendency  to  drape 
the  spirit  of  violence  (which  is  admissible  or  even  justifiable 
under  certain  circumstances  in  a worldly  context)  in  the 
holy  robes  of  sentimentality  and  devotion  of  a Hindu  religious 
faith.  He  had  already  given  up  editing  V angadarsan  and 
was  now  feeling  the  urgent  necessity  of  a journal  that  would 
stand  boldly  for  progressiveness  in  thought  and  action  and 
not  care  for  popularity  and  financial  return.  One  of  his 
nominees  in  the  days  of  Sadhana,  who  could  not  be  drawn 
out  then  was  now  chosen  as  editor  of  the  projected  periodical 
Pramatha  Chaudhuri  (1868-1948)  who  had  married  a niece 
of  Tagore  and  was  now  a member  of  the  High  Court  bar  at 
Calcutta  was  eminently  fit  for  the  job.  For  some  time  he 
had  been  writing  prose  and  poetry  in  the  pages  of  Bhdrati 
and  his  writings  were  distinguished  by  a sharpness  and 
sparkle  of  style  and  by  a precision  and  clarity  of  thought 
that  were  all  his  own. 

Sabujpatra  (Green  Leaf)  came  out  in  May  1914.  Its 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


333 


convenient  size,  neat  format  and  absence  of  advertisements 
were  a pleasing  novelty.  There  was  no  illustration  except 
the  insignia  of  a palm-leaf  in  silhouette  printed  on  the  green 
paper  cover.  The  palm-leaf  was  chosen  as  the  enduringly 
evergreen  leaf  of  a tree  that  stands  solitary  and  belligerent 
over  the  tops  of  other  vegetation.  The  main  contributors, 
in  some  issues  the  only  contributors,  were  Tagore  and  the 
editor.  The  other  writers  were  all  young  men  who  followed 
the  lead  of  Tagore  and  attended  the  salon  of  Chaudhuri  and 
they  all  believed  in  clear  and  individual  thinking  and  in 
simple  and  direct  writing.  The  journal  advocated  with  all 
emphasis  the  closing  up  of  the  widening  gulf  between  the 
language  of  the  pen  and  the  language  of  the  tongue.  Tagore 
and  Chaudhuri  took  the  lead  in  the  adoption  of  the  ‘Calit- 
bhasa’  (the  Standard  Colloquial)  in  place  of  the  highly 
Sanskritized  ‘Sadhu-bhasa’. 

Chaudhuri’s  cultivation  of  poetry  did  not  last  long,  and 
his  poems,  mostly  sonnets,  were  collected  in  two  thin  books 
of  verse:  Sanet-pancasat  (Half  a Century  of  Sonnets,  1913) 
and  Padacaran  (Walk  in  Steps,  1919).  His  essays  on  literary, 
political  and  social  topics — witty,  incisive,  thoughtful  and 
original — were  collected  in  books  and  pamphlets  such  as 
Tel  Nun  Lakdi  (Oil,  Salt  and  Firewood,  1906),  Birbaler  Hal- 
khata  (The  Current  Journal  of  Blrbal,  1917),  Ndna-kathd 
(Assorted  Talks,  1919),  Du-iyarki  (Diarchy,  1920),  Nana- 
carca  (Miscellaneous  Discussions,  1932),  etc.  His  pungent 
essays  were  generally  published  in  his  pen-name  ‘Blrbal’. 
The  choice  of  the  name  indicated  that  like  the  famous 
courtier  of  Akbar  he  attempted  to  stimulate  his  audience 
with  epigrammatic  wit.  Chaudhuri  wrote  some  very  good 
short  stories,  among  which  the  first  and  the  best  were  the 
quartet  Cdr-iyari-katha  (Tales  of  Four  Friends,  1916). 

A year  or  two  before  the  first  appearance  of  Sabujpatra, 
some  fresh  blood  was  infused  in  the  old  monthly  Bharati 
by  a group  of  young  writers  headed  by  Manilal  Ganguli 
(1888-1929)  and  his  friends  who  drew  their  inspiration  partly 


334 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


from  the  Vicitra  Sabha,  a literary  and  cultural  gathering  held 
in  Rabindranath  Tagore’s  house  in  Calcutta  and  presided 
over  by  him.  Gaganendranath  and  Avanindranath  Tagore 
were  also  there  as  well  as  the  latter’s  senior  students  like 
Sri  Asitkumar  Haidar  (b.  1890)  and  Sri  Nandalal  Bose 
(b.  1883). 

Some  of  the  young  contributors  to  Bharati  as  well  as 
the  editor  Ganguli  and  the  joint  editor  Sri  Saurindramohan 
Mukherji  (b.  1884)  distinguished  themselves  as  writers  of 
fiction.  They  included  Charuchandra  Banerji  (1877-1938), 
Sri  Hemendrakumar  Ray  (b.  1888),  Hemendralal  Ray 
(1892-1935),  Sureschandra  Banerji  (1882-<L),  Sri  Premankur 
Atarthi  (b.  1890),  Sri  Bibhutibhushan  Bhatta  (b.  1881)  and 
others.  A perceptible  leaning  towards  so-called  realism  was 
manifest  in  some  of  the  characteristic  short  stories  and  novels 
produced  by  the  younger  members  of  the  Bharati  group 
presided  over  by  Ganguli. 

The  most  distinguished  prose  writer  of  the  rejuve- 
nated Bharati  was  Abanindranath  Tagore  (1871-1951)  the 
founder  of  the  modern  school  of  Indian  Art.  Abanindranath 
had  been  induced  by  his  uncle  Rabindranath  to  take  up  the 
pen  as  far  back  as  1895  and  the  result  was  two  very  well- 
written  children’s  story  books  illustrated  by  the  author,  one 
based  on  an  indigenous  folk-tale,  the  other  on  the  story  of 
Sakuntala.  His  next  attempts  were  some  stories  of  Rajput 
heroism,  also  intended  mainly  for  juvenile  consumption. 
They  first  appeared  in  Bharati  (1904-1908)  and  were  later 
collected  in  the  two  volumes  of  Rajkdhini.  But  the  most 
outstanding  of  the  juvenalia  by  Abanindranath — and  all  are 
illustrated  by  him — are  Bhutpatarir  Des  (The  Land  of  Ghosts 
and  Goblins,  1915)  and  Khatahcir  Khatd  (An  Accountant’s 
Journal,  1916).  The  former  is  a phantasy  weaving  the  dream- 
land magic  of  nursery  tales  and  of  the  Arabian  Nights.  Such 
a work  could  come  only  from  the  pen  of  a master  equally  at 
home  with  the  pen  and  the  brush.  In  the  last  book  the  writer 
has  created  a dreamland  out  of  the  too  familiar  corner  of  the 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


335 


homestead.  Abanindranath  never  ceased  to  write  for  the 
young  till  the  last  few  years  of  his  life.  Among  his  other 
works  the  most  significant  are  the  short  stories  and  sketches 
collected  in  Pathe-vipathe  (By  the  Wayside  and  Astray,  1919), 
the  profusely  illustrated  essay  on  Bengali  women’s  folk-rites 
and  their  concomitant  art,  entitled  Bahglar  Vrata  (1919)  and 
the  lectures  on  art  and  art  criticism  delivered  as  Bageswari 
Professor  of  Fine  Arts  at  the  University  of  Calcutta  (1923-28), 
published  in  book  form  under  the  title  Bageswari  Silpa- 
prabandhavali  (1941).  His  earlier  essays  on  art  that  had 
been  published  occasionally  in  Bharati  have  been  collected 
only  recently  in  a small  volume,  Bharat-silpa  (Indian  Art). 
The  last  books  to  be  produced  by  Abanindranath  are  auto- 
biographical. Gharoya  (Homely  Talk,  1941)  and  Jodasankor 
Dhdre  (By  the  Side  of  Jorasanko,  1944),  both  written  in 
collaboration  with  Srimati  Rani  Chanda,  contain  many  in- 
teresting facts  and  episodes  of  the  Tagore  family. 

Abanindranath  was  not  directly  concerned  with  the 
Bharati  group  and  of  course  he  was  never  seen  at  the  salon 
his  son-in-law  Manilal  Ganguli  held  every  evening  on  the  top 
floor  hall  of  the  building  where  the  office  of  the  periodical 
and  the  printing  press  were  housed.  But  he  supplied  direct 
inspiration  to  the  young  writers  whose  love  for  Indian  art, 
preference  for  the  leisurely  and  spacious  way  of  life,  cultiva- 
tion of  artistic  habit  and  temperament  and  a liking  for 
Persian  poetry  (no  doubt  connected  with  Mughal  paintings 
and  with  Omar  Khayyam)  were  received  mainly  from 
Abanindranath. 

Satyendranath  Datta  (1882-1922)  was  a distinguished 
member  of  the  Bharati  group.  He  was  a poet  who  exerted 
influence  on  almost  all  the  contemporary  writers  of  Bengali 
verse,  much  more  than  Tagore  ever  did.  Tagore  could  be 
copied  occasionally  but  never  followed  successfully  ; while 
Datta  could  be  always  imitated  with  success  and  profit. 

Satyendranath  was  the  grandson  of  Aksaykumar  Datta, 


336 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


the  eminent  prose  writer  of  the  middle  nineteenth  century. 
The  grandfather’s  thirst  for  exact  knowledge,  his  spirit 
of  enquiry,  his  quiet  manner  of  living  and  his  patriotic 
feelings  were  inherited  by  the  grandson  and  are  reflected  in 
his  works.  Datta  was  readily  responsive  to  the  social  and 
political  movements  that  agitated  the  country.  He  started 
writing  verse  when  the  Swadeshi  movement  was  just  on  and 
death  cut  off  his  career  when  the  Non-co-operation  movement 
was  in  full  swing.  Datta’s  two  earliest  poems  were  published 
as  pamphlets  (1900,  1905).  These  and  other  earlier  poems 
published  in  Venn  O Vina  (The  Flute  and  the  Lute,  1906) 
and  Homasikha  (Sacrificial  Flame,  1907)  show  influence  of 
Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt,  Devendranath  Sen  and  Aksay- 
kumar  Baral.  It  was  perhaps  the  writings  of  the  last  two 
poets  that  had  drawn  him  as  a very  young  man  to  the  coterie 
of  Sahitya.  The  influence  of  his  college  friend  Satischandra 
Ray  made  him  acquainted  with  Tagore  and  his  works. 

Datta  knew  that  it  was  futile  to  copy  Tagore’s  poetry 
and  he  felt  that  delving  into  deep  feeling  and  churning  of 
profound  emotion  were  not  for  him.  He  chose  the  only  way 
out  by  cultivating  the  picturesque  form  of  poetry  that 
depends  upon  lexical  cadence  and  metrical  sonority  rather 
than  upon  emotive  sensuousness.  Maturity  is  noticeable 
in  his  third  book  of  original  verse,  Phuler  Phasal  (The 
Crops  of  Flowers,  1911),  apparently  taken  from  the  familiar 
phrase  in  Persian  poetry  ‘phasl-e-gul’.  It  is  maintained  in 
the  succeeding  volume  Kuhu  O Keka  (The  Cuckoo  and  the 
Peacock,  1912).  The  poems  in  Tulir  Likhan  (Writings  of  the 
Brush,  1914)  are  all  of  the  ‘gatha’  or  ballad  type  and  were 
written  in  the  rainy  months  of  1909.  The  poems  of  Abhra 
Ablr  (Mica-and-Vermilion  Dust,  1916),  written  between  1913 
and  1915,  reveal  the  poet’s  complete  pre-occupation  with 
experiments  in  metrical  variety.  No  quotation  in  translation 
can  adequately  show  the  success  which  Datta  achieved  in 
this  field. 

Datta  was  more  at  his  ease  in  his  humorous  and  satirical 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


337 


poems.  A small  collection  of  these  was  published  in  1917 
under  the  title  Hasantikd  (Sparkles  from  the  Forge).  In 
many  of  these  poems  Datta  is  as  bitter  and  slashing  as 
Pramatha  Chaudhuri  was  in  some  of  his  essays.  To  give  an 
example.  In  the  presidential  address  at  the  eighth  session 
of  Bengali  Literary  Conference  (Vanglya  Sahitya  Sammilan) 
at  Burdwan  in  April  1914,  Haraprasad  Shastri  had  said  that 
contemporary  Bengali  writers  were  producing  only  small  and 
light  compositions  but  nothing  that  can  be  taken  as  big  or 
massive  or  ponderous.  Datta’s  reply  to  this  charge  was  given 
in  a poem  published  in  Pr avast  the  very  next  month.  To 
quote  a portion  in  translation: 

Look  here.  The  originator  of  the  Sankhya  philosophy 
could  produce  only  a few  dozens  of  tiny  sutras  and  so 
he  could  not  secure  a chair  at  any  conference.  O my 
brother!  had  he  but  produced  three  volumes  instead, 
the  scholars  would  have  been  convinced  and  the  poor 
fellow  could  have  managed  to  be  elected  a sectional 
chairman  at  least  in  the  philosophy  section  (of  a learned 
conference).  Alas!  the  poor  fellow  chose  to  be  brief 
and  so  he  wrote  only  a few  unintelligible  words  and  thus 
he  missed  the  appointment  as  a lecturer  enjoying  a 
(University)  fellowship  in  this  land  of  Jambu. 

The  end  of  the  first  World  War  brought  in  a disillusion- 
ment to  many  who  were  expecting  some  relief  from  the 
pressure  of  foreign  domination.  This  disappointment 
brought  about  a favourable  condition  for  the  Non-co-opera- 
tion movement  started  by  Mahatma  Gandhi  in  1920.  Datta, 
unlike  some  of  his  sober-minded  compatriots,  welcomed  the 
movement  with  enthusiasm,  and  his  poetry  was  the  first  in 
Indian  literature  to  be  vocal  in  its  praise.  At  the  first  burst 
of  enthusiasm  all  that  had  been  done  by  the  British  appeared 
bad,  and  sympathy  for  the  labouring  class  took  a new 
significance.  So  Datta  wrote  in  his  Carkar  Gan  (The  Song 
of  the  Charkha): 

22 


338 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


The  western  civilization  is  the  demon  Fire-eye 
Withering  (everything  it  gazes  at).  It  has  built  mills 
that  sap  the  vitality  of  young  men.  Volumes  of  smoke 
from  the  chimneys  blast  the  ploughlands  and  pastures. 
The  Ganga  has  come  to  be  only  a channel  for  the 
septic  tanks  (of  the  mills). 

The  poems  written  from  1914  up  to  his  death  are 
collected  in  two  books  Belaseser  Gan  (The  Song  of  the  Day’s 
End)  and  Biddy  Arati  (The  Last  Greeting)  both  published 
posthumously  (1922).  In  these  poems  there  is  no  further 
development  but  there  is  some  ease  in  the  diction  and  more 
spontaneity  in  rhythm.  The  poet’s  preference  for  dialectal 
words  is  more  pronounced  than  ever.  Some  of  these  poems 
are  among  the  best  Datta  ever  wrote,  and  in  his  best  poems 
the  reader  is  captivated  by  a series  of  pictures  and  snapshots 
evoked  by  the  carefully  chosen  words  and  aided  by  the  quick 
beating  of  the  metrical  rhythm.  Poems  like  Palkir  Gan 
(The  Song  of  the  Palanquin)  and  Durer  Pdlld  (A  Distant 
Journey)  are  among  these. 

Satyendranath  Datta  wrote  some  prose  also.  Most  of  his 
essays  are  satirical  and,  like  his  satirical  poems,  are  signed 
by  his  pen-name  ‘Navakumar  Kaviratna’.  One  long  essay, 
rather  of  the  size  of  a monograph,  is  interesting.  It  is 
entitled  Chandah  Sarasvati  (The  Rhyme  Deity)  and  was 
published  in  Bhdrati  (1918).  Put  in  the  form  of  a phantasy, 
mainly  in  verse,  it  is  a poetic  exposition  of  the  nature, 
quality  and  tendency  of  the  Bengali  metre.  Datta  translated 
some  short  plays  of  English  and  Continental  writers  such  as 
Stephen  Phillips,  P.  H.  Pearse  and  Maurice  Maeterlinck. 
These  translations  are  collected  in  the  volume  Rangamalli 
(1913).  His  only  original  dramatic  piece  ( Dhuper  Dhorhyay 
(In  Incense  Smoke,  Bharati,  1920),  is  a humorous  playlet 
with  an  entirely  feminine  cast.  The  plot  is  laid  in  the  inner 
apartments  of  king  Dasaratha.  The  author  took  considerable 
pains  to  reconstruct  the  hoary  atmosphere  by  giving  stage 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


339 


and  costume  directions  in  detail. 

Datta  had  also  begun  a historical  novel  written  entirely 
in  the  colloquial  style  but  it  was  never  completed.  The  only 
fiction  standing  to  his  credit  is  Janmaduhkhl  (1912),  and  it 
is  a translation  of  Livsslaven  by  the  Norwegian  writer  Jonas 
Lie.  This  translation  indicates  Datta’s  sympathy  for  the 
down-trodden  labour  class.  Ciner  Dhup  (Chinese  Incense, 
1912)  contains  four  short  essays  introducing  Taoism  and 
Confucianism  to  the  Bengali  reader. 

Datta  translated  poems  from  almost  all  important 
classical  and  modern  languages  of  the  woild.  He  knew 
Sanskrit  and  English  very  well  and  had  a working  knowledge 
of  French.  He  knew  some  Persian  and  had  a smattering 
knowledge  of  a few  Indian  and  one  or  two  other  European 
languages.  His  “originals”  therefore  were  largely  English 
translations.  The  poems  in  translation  were  published  in 
three  volumes:  Tnthasalil  (Holy  Waters,  1908),  Tlrtha- 
renu  (Holy  Dust,  1910)  and  Manimanjusa  (A  Jewel  Casket, 
1915).  The  poems  translated  include  Vedic  hymns  and 
classical  Sanskrit  verses,  modern  Indian  poems  in  Indo- 
Aryan,  Dravidian,  Austric  and  Tibeto-Burman  languages, 
Chinese  and  Japanese  poems,  Malayan  poems,  English  poems 
and  classical  and  modern  European  poems.  Among  the 
English  and  European  (German  and  French)  poets  trans- 
lated by  Datta  are  Alfred  Austin,  Robert  Bridges,  William 
Butler  Yeats,  Ezra  Pound,  Arthur  O’Shaughnessy,  Arno 
Holz,  Victor  Hugo,  Maurice  Maeterlinck,  Charles  Baudelaire, 
Paul  Verlaine,  Sully  Prudhomme,  Paul  Valery,  Emile 
Verhaeren,  etc. 

Datta  excelled  in  translation.  His  translations  may  not 
always  be  very  faithful  but  their  Bengali  garb  is  impeccable. 

Some  good  poetry  and  much  readable  verse  were  written  by 
the  literary  enthusiasts  in  the  second  decade  of  this  century. 
Many  of  them  could  not  avoid  the  influence  of  Datta’s  pretty 
versification  and  they  wrote  verse  that  was  acceptable  to  the 


340 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


reading  public.  One  of  the  very  few  writers  immune  to 
Datta’s  influence  was  Dwijendranarayan  Bagchi  (1873-1927). 
Bagchi  was  an  ardent  lover  of  Tagore’s  poetry  and  his  own 
verse  is  redolent  of  Tagore.  He  did  not  write  much  and 
has  left  for  us  a single  book  of  verse  Ektara  (One-Stringed 
Lute,  1917).  Dwijendranarayan’s  cousin  Jatindramohan 
Bagchi  (1878-1948)  also  was  an  admirer  of  Tagore’s  poetry. 
The  younger  Bagchi ’s  poems  were  published  in  the  best 
periodicals  since  1899.  They  are  collected  in  several  books 
such  as  Lekha  (Writing,  1906),  Rekha  (Drawing,  1910), 
Aparajita  (1913),  Nagkesar  (1917),  Niharika  (1927),  etc. 
Jatindramohan’s  verse  is  smooth  and  picturesque.  Like 
many  of  his  contemporaries  a love  for  the  simple  life  and 
the  rural  landscape  is  manifest  in  his  best  efforts. 

Karunanidhan  Banerji  (1877-1955),  Sri  Kumudranjan 
Mallik  (b.  1882)  and  Sri  Kalidas  Ray  (b.  1889)  may  be 
grouped  together  for  their  profession,  if  not  for  their  attitude 
to  poetry.  They  have  all  been  school  teachers.  Banerji 
made  his  first  appearance  in  1901  with  the  slender  Bariga- 
mangal,  a paean  at  the  first  outburst  of  the  Swadeshi 
movement.  It  was  immature  verse  but  the  promise  was 
there  and  it  made  him  known  to  the  general  reader.  His 
subsequent  books  of  verse  are  Prasadi  (Blessed  Food,  1904), 
Jhara-phul  (Fallen  Flowers,  1911),  Santijal  (Blessed  Water, 
1913),  Dhandurua  (1921)  and  Ravindra-arati  (Homage  to 
Rabindranath,  1937).  Banerji’s  poems  are  simple  and  sincere 
and  they  remind  us  of  Devendranath  Sen.  He  did  not  write 
over  much  and  did  not  handle  many  themes. 

Mallik  is  different  from  Banerji  and  Bagchi  in  approach. 
He  is  not  merely  an  admirer  of  the  rural  and  a lover  of  the 
rustic  but  he  rarely  acknowledges  anything  outside  the  village 
life.  He  is  almost  a Vaishnav  devotee  and  his  verse  does  not 
hide  it.  Mallik  is  writing  verse  since  1900  and  has  produced 
thirteen  small  volumes,  of  which  three  ( Ujarii , Banatulasi  and 
Satadal)  were  published  in  1911  and  the  latest  Svarnasandhya 
(Golden  Evening)  in  1948.  Mallik’s  poems  are  short  and  his 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


341 


style  is  unpretentious  but  spiced  with  allusions  from  Puranic 
lore. 

Ray  like  Bagchi  belonged  to  the  literary  entourage  of 
Jagadindranath  Ray,  Maharaja  of  Natore  and  promoter  of 
the  monthly  Manasi  O Marmavani.  Ray  has  produced 
eighteen  books  of  poetry,  such  as  Kunda  (1908),  Kisalay 
(1911),  Parnaput  (1914),  Ksudkumda  (Broken  Rice  and 
Chaff,  1922),  Baikalt  (1940),  etc.  Ray’s  verse  is  smooth  and 
easy  and  is  enlivened  with  a dash  of  romantic  love  of  nature. 

Among  the  less  voluminous  writers  of  contemporary  verse 
mention  may  be  made  of  Kirandhan  Chatterji  (1887-1931), 
a cousin  of  Manilal  Ganguli.  Chatterji  wrote  almost  exclu- 
sively in  Bharati.  He  produced  only  one  book  of  poems, 
Natun  Khata  (A  Fresh  Notebook,  1923),  and  some  poems 
published  subsequently  in  Bharati  and  elsewhere.  Chatterji 
was  a poet  of  homely  love,  but  unlike  Devendranath  Sen  and 
Karunanidhan  Banerji  he  was  not  devotionally  disposed.  His 
poetry  therefore  is  realistically  romantic. 

Sukumar  Raychaudhuri  (1887-1923),  the  eldest  son  of 
Upendrakisor  Raychaudhuri  (1863-1915),  the  pioneer  of  half- 
tone block  printing  in  India  and  compiler  of  one  of  the  best 
books  of  nursery  tales  in  Bengali,  T untunir  Katha  (The 
Tales  of  the  Tiny  Bird,  1910),  was  an  important  member  of 
the  Bharati  group.  He  was  a master  of  the  photographic  art 
and  he  founded  in  1921  Sandes  (Sweets)  which  proved  to  be 
the  best  juvenile  monthly  in  Bengali.  For  this  periodical  of 
his  he  wrote  some  excellent  nursery  rhymes  which  have  come 
to  stay  as  permanent  stock  in  our  juvenile  literature. 

In  fiction  the  traditional  form  was  generally  maintained 
but  in  content  progress  was  clearly  noticeable.  Hara- 
prasad  Sastri  (1853-1931)  and  his  pupil  Rakhaldas  Banerji 
(1885  1930),  leading  Indologists  both,  achieved  success  in 
the  historical  novel.  Sastri’s  Bener  Meye  (The  Merchant’s 
Daughter,  1920)  is  written  in  a style  that  is  very  close  to  the 
colloquial.  It  reconstructs  with  plausibility  and  brilliance 


342 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


the  social,  domestic  and  social  atmosphere  in  West  Bengal 
in  the  eleventh  century.  His  other  work  of  fiction  (. Kancan - 
mala,  an  historical  tale)  also  is  well  written.  It  was  first 
published  in  Bangadarsan  (1883).  Sastri  wrote  better  Bengali 
than  many  of  his  contemporaries,  old  and  young,  and  although 
a Sanskritist  of  the  first  grade  he  did  not  care  to  load  his 
literary  style  with  learned  words  and  Sanskritisms. 

Banerji  wrote  three  domestic  and  seven  historical  novels. 
The  latter  only  are  significant  productions.  Pasaner  Katha 
(The  Story  of  a Stone,  1914)  is  not  much  of  a story  but  it 
presents  convincingly  the  atmosphere  of  the  Saka  period  of 
Indian  history.  Karuna  (1917)  deals  with  the  early  days  of 
the  decline  of  the  Gupta  empire  when  the  aged  Kumara- 
gupta  was  on  the  throne.  Sasarika  (1914)  treats  one  of  the 
most  romantic  and  elusive  figures  in  the  early  mediaeval 
history  of  Eastern  India.  Dharmapal  (1915)  recounts  the 
glorious  activities  of  the  greatest  ruler  of  the  Pala  dynasty. 
Mayukh  (1917)  is  a romantic  tale  pivoted  on  the  conflict 
between  the  Mughal  and  the  Portuguese  power  in  Bengal 
during  the  reign  of  Shahjehan.  The  plot  of  Asim  (1924)  is 
laid  in  the  early  eighteenth  century  Bengal.  The  plot  of 
Lutphulla  (serialized,  1927-29)  is  laid  in  Delhi  under  the 
occupation  of  Nadir  Shah.  Two  ( Hemakana  and  Dhruva) 
are  left  incomplete.  From  a purely  literary  point  of  view 
Banerji’s  historical  novels  do  not  show  much  advance  from 
Chatterji  but  what  strikes  the  reader  unfailingly  is  his  power 
of  convoking  the  historical  materials  (some  of  which  were 
made  available  by  his  own  researches)  to  build  up  a con- 
vincing historical  atmosphere. 

The  younger  fiction  writers  connected  with  the  Bharatl 
group  generally  sought  escape  from  the  usual  tales  of  love 
and  domestic  fiction.  The  bolder  among  them  even  tried  to 
bring  in  love  outside  marriage  as  well  as  a faint  sex  note. 
The  most  notable  writings  of  this  type  are:  Mukti  (a  story 
by  Manilal  Ganguli,  first  published  in  Bharatl,  1914),  Pahka- 
tilak  (a  novel  by  Charuchandra  Banerji,  1919)  and  Jhader 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


343 


Yatri  (a  long  story  by  Sri  Hemendrakumar  Ray,  1923). 

The  most  experienced  of  the  young  writers  of  the 
Bharati  group  was  Sri  Saurindramohan  Mukherji  (b.  1884) 
who  was  connected  with  the  periodical  since  1908,  at  first  as 
an  assistant  editor  and  then  as  the  joint  editor.  Mukherji 
had  been  writing  short  stories  since  1903  and  by  1913  he  had 
produced  three  books  of  original  short  stories:  Sephali  (1909), 
Nirjhar  (1911)  and  Puspak  (1913).  The  number  of  his 
novels,  story  books  and  plays  up  to  date  is  more  than  a 
hundred  but  by  far  the  bulk  of  them  are  either  adaptations 
or  translations  from  English.  The  authors  translated  include 
Moliere,  Goldsmith,  Hugo,  Tolstoy,  Maeterlinck,  Daudet, 
Gorky,  Turgeniev,  Maupassant,  Haggard,  Ma-Tun  (Chinese), 
Dumas,  Stevenson,  Ruskin,  Dickens,  Swift,  Verne,  Hans 
Andersen,  Washington  Irving  and  Lalbehari  Dey.  Mukherji 
has  written  an  original  play  (Svayamvara,  1931)  on  the  Savitrl 
story  from  the  Mahabharata.  Many  of  his  plays  (translated 
or  otherwise)  were  staged  publicly  with  some  success. 

Charuchandra  Banerji  (1876-1938)  was  not  as  prolific 
a writer  as  Mukherji.  But  he  also  began  his  literary  career 
as  a writer  of  short  stories  and  translated  and  adapted  from 
English  some  foreign  novels  and  stories.  He  produced  about 
a dozen  books  of  short  stories,  including  Barandala  (Welcome 
Offerings,  1910),  Puspapatra  (A  Flower  Vase,  1910).  Saogat 
(Presents,  1911),  Vanajyotsna  (Moonlight  in  the  Forest,  1938), 
etc.  Banerji  was  associated  with  the  periodical  Pravasi  as  the 
assistant  editor  until  his  appointment  as  a lecturer  in  Bengali 
at  the  University  of  Dacca.  He  had  occasion  to  come  in 
touch  with  Tagore  who  had  supplied  him  with  the  themes 
of  at  least  three  of  his  novels:  Sroter  Phul  (A  Flower  Down- 
stream, 1915),  Dui  Tar  (Two  Strings,  1918)  and  Herpher 
(Foops  and  Knots,  1919).  Banerji’s  second  novel  Pargachd 
(The  Parasite,  1917)  is  perhaps  his  best  work.  It  is  the  story 
of  a man  unsuccessful  in  life.  For  the  young,  Banerji 
adapted  from  English  The  Persian  Tales  (1910)  and  Robinson 
Crusoe  (1910). 


344 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Fiction  writers  serializing  their  works  in  Manasi  O 
Marmavani  were  not  many.  Prabhatkumar  Mukherji  was 
the  foremost  among  them.  Among  others  mention  may  be 
made  of  Phakirchandra  Chatterji  (d.  1932)  who  was  one 
of  the  founders  of  the  periodical,  Manomohan  Chatterji, 
Sri  Manik  Bhattacharya,  Surendranath  Ganguli  and  Indira 
Devi. 

Indira  Devi,  her  younger  sister  Anurupa  Devi  and  their 
girlhood  friend  Nirupama  Devi  formed  what  may  be  called 
the  women  group  of  the  novelists  of  the  day,  and  if 
Saratchandra  Chatterji  is  included  it  may  as  well  be  called  the 
Bhagalpur  school  of  fiction  writers.  This  school  would 
include  some  relatives  of  the  ladies  and  of  Chatterji  such 
as  Sri  Saurindramohan  Mukherji,  Sri  Bibhutibhushan  Bhatta, 
Surendranath  Ganguli  (1881-1856)  and  Sri  Upendranath 
Ganguli  (b.  1881).  Romance  and  tragedy  of  love  and 
marriage  (monogamous  and  polygamous)  in  humdrum 
domestic  life  is  the  common  theme  of  the  novels  produced 
by  this  Bhagalpur  group  of  writers.  Sri  Saurindramohan 
Mukherji  shows  unmistakable  allegiance  to  this  school  in 
his  first  novel  Arhdhi  (Blinding  Dust  Storm,  serialized  in 
Bharati,  1911-12).  Saratchandra  Chatterji  was  the  unques- 
tioned master  of  the  school,  although  he  was  one  of  the  last 
to  come  out  in  the  open. 

Saratchandra  Chatterji  (1876-1938)  was  bred  up  in  his 
mother’s  family  at  Bhagalpur  where  he  received  his  school 
education  and  college  education  for  two  years.  The  death 
of  his  parents  wrecked  his  home  life  and  for  some  years  he 
was  to  lead  the  life  of  a waif  in  North  Bihar.  In  1903  he 
went  to  Burma  and  found  employment  in  Rangoon  as  a clerk 
in  a government  office.  On  the  eve  of  his  departure  for 
Burma  he  submitted  a short  story  for  a prize  competition  in 
the  name  of  his  uncle  Surendranath  Ganguli.  It  won  the 
first  prize  and  was  published  in  1904.  A long  story  ( Badadidi ) 
was  published  in  two  instalments  in  his  own  name  in 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


345 


Bharati  (1907).  But  his  sustained  appearance  was  in  1913 
when  some  of  his  best  known  stories  were  published  in  the 
periodicals  Jamuna,  Sahitya  and  Bharatvarsa.  The  success 
of  these  stories  assured  a steady  income  for  him,  and  as  he 
was  not  keeping  very  fit  in  Burma  he  gave  up  his  job, 
returned  to  India  and  settled  in  suburban  Calcutta  to 
take  up  writing  professionally.  He  was  the  first  novelist  in 
India  to  live  in  some  comfort  on  the  returns  of  his  output. 
His  instantaneous  fame  and  continued  popularity  are  without 
a parallel  in  our  literary  history.  Even  Bankim  Chandra 
Chatterji’s  works,  not  to  say  Rabindranath  Tagore’s,  were 
never  received  by  the  general  reader  with  anything  like  this 
eagerness  and  warmth.  Chatterji’s  stories  are  generally  long, 
and  his  novels  vary  in  length.  The  influence  of  Tagore  is 
there  but  not  his  emotional  depth  and  creativeness.  In 
Saratchandra  Chatterji’s  stories  and  novels  the  lack  of 
emotion  is  to  some  extent  compensated  by  a sentimentalism 
readily  acceptable  to  the  common  reader.  In  spite  of  the 
lack  of  profundity  and  polish,  some  of  the  stories  are  very 
striking  for  their  obvious  sincerity  and  basic  realism.  These 
include  Bindur  Chele  (Bindu’s  Child,  1913),  Ramer  Sumati 
(Ram  Returning  to  Sanity,  1914),  Araksaniya  (The  Girl 
Whose  Marriage  is  Overdue,  1916),  etc. 

For  various  reasons  Chatterji’s  boyhood  and  early  man- 
hood days  were  not  happy.  This  did  not  embitter  him  but 
it  made  him  unfit  to  see  life  sometimes  from  an  oblique 
angle.  Misunderstanding,  estrangement  and  bitterness  are 
there  in  his  stories  but  everything  is  smoothed  out  in  the 
finale  so  that  the  end  of  the  story  whether  happy  or  not,  is 
always  palatable.  This  combined  with  his  sympathy  for  the 
neglected  womanhood  and  his  easy,  direct  and  pleasant  style 
of  narration  has  contributed  to  the  attractiveness  of  his  stories. 

Saratchandra’s  earliest  writings  show  striking  influence 
of  Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji.  In  Devdas  (written  1901, 
published  1917),  Parinlta  (The  Married  Girl,  1914),  Bird j 
Bau  (Mrs.  Biraj,  1914)  and  Palli  Samaj  (The  Village 


346 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Commune,  1916),  the  themes  and  their  treatment  are  not 
very  much  different  from  the  older  Chatterji’s  but  they  are 
presented  in  a modernistic  setting  and  in  an  easier  and  more 
matter-of-fact  language.  Tagore’s  influence,  specially  of  his 
short  stories  and  of  his  novels  Chokher  Bali  and  Gora,  is. 
detectable  in  some  of  Chatterji’s  stories  and  novels.  Chatterji 
was  sympathetic  to  woman  repressed  at  home  and  tortured 
occasionally,  and  he  was  partial  to  those  who  for  no 
commission  on  their  own  part  incur  disapproval  or  dis- 
pleasure of  the  family  or  community.  The  social  and' 
domestic  atmosphere  in  the  stories  and  novels  of  Chatterji 
is,  on  the  whole,  of  the  days  long  past  but  the  story  interest 
makes  the  reader  forgetful  of  the  plausibility  or  otherwise  of 
the  setup.  He  is  certainly  critical  of  the  contemporary  society 
when  it  is  not  in  agreement  with  his  own  ideas  but  he  never 
flouts  the  accepted  moral  basis  of  the  Hindu  society  of 
any  time. 

Chatterji  is  at  his  best  when  he  draws  from  his  own 
experience.  To  name  the  more  important  of  such  works: 
Srikanta  in  four  parts  (1917,  1918,  1927,  1933),  Caritrahin 
(1917),  Biraj  Ban  (1914),  Palli  Samaj  (1916),  the  first  part  of 
Devdas  (his  first  novel)  and  his  first  published  short  story 
Mandir  (1904).  It  may  be  noted  that  these  (with  the 
exception  of  the  last  two  parts  of  Srikanta  which  are  much 
below  the  level  of  the  first  two)  belong  to  the  first  phase  of 
Chatterji’s  literary  career,  that  is  up  to  1913  when  he  had 
been  just  recognized  as  a powerful  writer  of  fiction.  The 
second  phase  began  with  a conscious  attempt  to  tackle  a plot 
that  is  somewhat  akin  to  Tagore’s  Gora.  The  result  was 
his  biggest  novel  Grhadaha  (Home  Burnt  Down,  1919).  The 
spinning  out  of  a thin  story  is  rather  wearisome  and  it  was 
never  received  with  the  usual  acclamation.  Before  he 
finished  Grhadaha  Chatterji  had  reverted  to  the  romantic 
love  story  and  Datta  (The  Girl  Given  Away,  serialized 
1917-1919)  and  Dena-Paona  (Debts  and  Demands,  1923)  were 
written.  The  story  of  the  latter  bears  strong  resemblance  to 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


347 


Leola  Dale’s  Fortune  by  Charles  Garvice.  But  it  cannot  be 
denied  that  in  spite  of  its  loud  unfamiliar  colour  and  over- 
dose of  romance  the  tale  is  pleasantly  told. 

The  revolutionary  movement  from  Bengal  operating  in 
Burma  and  in  Far  East  supplied  the  background  of  the 
romance  Father  Dabi  (The  Demand  of  the  Road,  1926).  The 
novel  for  no  cogent  reason  was  proscribed  by  the  Government. 
In  Bipradas  (1935)  Chatterji  returns  to  the  domestic  novel 
but  it  scarcely  reveals  a new  approach  or  a fresh  appraisal. 
His  last  complete  novel  §es  Prasna  (The  Final  Question, 
1931)  is  an  attempt  at  the  ‘intellectual’  novel  where  the 
meagre  theme  is  inflated  by  highbrow  talks  on  problems  of 
the  individual  and  of  the  society  relating  principally  to  love 
and  marriage. 

Some  of  the  popular  tales  of  Chatterji  were  dramatized 
and  performed  on  the  public  stage  with  considerable 
success.  Chatterji’s  works  have  been  repeatedly  translated 
into  all  the  major  Indian  languages. 

When  Saratchandra  Chatterji  was  still  teen-aged  he  had 
gathered  round  him  a host  of  very  young  aspirants  to  literary 
fame  and  they  organized  an  informal  juvenile  literary 
society  and  started  its  handwritten  organ  Chaya  ( circa  1896). 
Almost  all  the  members  of  this  band  became,  in  later  life, 
well  known  as  writers  of  fiction.  Chatterji  was  the  senior- 
most  among  them  and  the  guiding  spirit.  He  wrote  stories 
that  were  read  at  the  meetings  or  circulated  in  the  manus- 
cript journal.  These  early  writings  of  Chatterji  had  made 
a deep  impression  on  the  minds  of  his  young  admirers. 
This  fact  explains  the  strange  similarity  in  the  themes  of 
some  of  the  stories  and  novels  of  the  Bhagalpur  group  of 
story-tellers.  These  writers  were  all  prize-winners  in  the 
short  story  competitions  sponsored  by  H.  Basu,  the  manu- 
facturer of  the  hair  oil  Kuntalin  and  other  perfumes,  and 
some  of  their  early  writings  were  published  in  the  pages 
of  Bharati. 


348 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Sri  Saurindramohan  Mukherji’s  works  have  been  pre- 
viously mentioned.  His  cousins  (granddaughters  of  Bhudev 
Mukherji)  Indira  and  Anurupa  were  the  next  to  come  out 
in  print.  Indira  Devi  (1880-1922)  has  to  her  credit  four 
volumes  of  original  short  stories  and  a novel,  Sparsamani 
(Touchstone,  1918).  The  novel  is  well  written  and  the 
domestic  environments  are  well  delineated.  She  did  some 
translation  which  is  also  good.  Indira’s  younger  sister 
Anurupa  Devi  (1882-1958)  was  comparatively  a prolific  writer. 
Her  first  novel  to  be  published  serially  in  a periodical  is 
Jyotihara  (Light  Lost  to  Her,  1915)  but  it  was  her  second 
novel  Posyaputra  (The  Adopted  Son,  1912)  that  made  her 
name  familiar  to  readers.  Her  later  novels  include  Vagdatta 
(The  Bethrothed,  1914),  Mantrasakti  (Power  of  Mantra, 
1915),  Mahanisa  (The  Awful  Night,  1919),  Ma  (Mother, 
1920),  etc.  Mantrasakti  is  more  popular  than  any  other 
novel  of  Anurupa  Devi.  Its  theme  reminds  the  reader 
strongly  of  Ma?idir , the  first  story  by  Saratchandra  to  appear 
in  print  (1904).  Anurupa  Devi  has  also  written  some 
historical  plays. 

Sri  Bibhutibhushan  Bhatta  (b.  1881)  wrote  only  stories, 
mostly  short,  and  he  has  four  books  to  his  credit : Svecchdcari 
(The  Self-willed,  1917),  Akajer  Kaj  (Work  of  No  Conse- 
quence, 1920),  Sahajiya  (1922)  and  Saptapadi  (The  Seven 
Steps  of  Marriage,  1923).  His  first  story-book  Astak  (The 
Octet,  1917)  contains  also  stories  written  by  his  sister 
Nirupama  Devi  (1883-1951).  Nirupama  wrote  some  more 
short  stories  collected  in  Aleya  (Will  O’  the  Wisp,  1917)  and 
more  than  a dozen  novels.  The  first  of  her  novels  is  Anna- 
purnar  Mandir  (The  Temple  of  Annapurna,  1913).  It  shows 
almost  the  same  theme  as  Saratchandra  Chatterji’s  short 
story  Anupamar  Prem  (The  Love  of  Anupama).  The  best- 
read  of  her  novels  is  Didi  (The  Elder  Co-Wife,  serialized 
1912-13,  1915).  Her  other  novels  include  Ucchrnkhal 
(The  Unruly,  1920),  Devatra  (Given  to  God,  1927),  etc. 
Nirupama’s  novels  are  readable  and  are  neither  too  bulky 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


349 


nor  ponderous.  Her  style  is  unostentatious  and  there  is  no 
attempt  to  moralize  or  to  teach.  The  novel  Syamali  (1919) 
depicts  the  dawning  of  intelligence  in  the  head  and  warmth 
in  the  heart  of  a girl  born  halfwit  and  mute,  by  the  careful 
tenderness  of  her  young  husband  to  whom  she  is  married  by 
mistake.  Recently  it  has  been  dramatized  and  performed 
with  unprecedented  success  at  a public  stage  in  Calcutta. 

Srimati  Sailabala  Ghoshjaya  (b.  1894)  did  not  belong  to 
the  Bhagalpur  group  but  her  name  normally  comes  up  with 
those  of  Indira,  Anurupa  and  Nirupama  as  she  also  wrote 
from  a woman’s  standpoint  although  her  approach  was  some- 
what different.  She  too  first  appeared  as  a story-writer  and 
then  as  a writer  of  the  novel.  Her  first  novel  Sekh  Andu 
(serialized  1915,  1917)  is  rather  daring  in  its  plot.  It  is  a 
story  of  the  hopeless  love  of  an  educated  and  cultured  Hindu 
girl  for  the  young  Muslim  chauffeur  of  her  father.  Misti- 
sarbat  (Sweet  Drink,  1920)  recounts  a pleasant  story  of  a 
Muslim  family.  J anma-aparadhi  (Guilty  from  Birth,  1920) 
presents  a very  convincing  story.  Sailabala  has  written  seven 
or  eight  books  of  short  stories,  some  twenty-four  novels  and 
one  play. 

Srimati  Santa  Devi  (b.  1894)  and  Srimati  Sita  Devi 
(b.  1895),  daughters  of  the  veteran  journalist  Ramananda 
Chatterji,  wrote  stories  and  novels  exclusively  for  Pravasi. 
They  have  written  some  good  children’s  stories.  Their  first 
novel  Udyanlata  (The  Garden  Creeper,  1919)  was  a joint 
venture. 

The  first  number  of  Sabujpatra  came  out  in  May  1914  and 
in  November  of  the  same  year  appeared  Narayan  the  monthly 
organ  of  the  opposite  camp.  Chittaranjan  Das  (1870-1925) 
who  was  then  one  of  the  most  brilliant  members  of  the  High 
Court  bar  at  Calcutta  became  the  sponsor  of  the  periodical. 
But  its  guiding  spirit  was  Bipinchandra  Pal  (1857-1952).  Pal 
had  succeeded  Tagore  as  the  editor  of  Bangadarsan  which 
ceased  publication  in  1913.  Narayan  was  started  not  with 


350 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


any  definite  programme  but  with  the  intention  of  opposing 
Rabindranath  Tagore  and  those  who  followed  his  lead. 
Haraprasad  Shastri  was  a regular  contributor  to  the 
periodical.  Das  wrote  poems,  and  Pal  wrote  articles  and  a 
few  stories.  Narayanchandra  Bhattacharya  (d.  1927)  was  the 
chief  short  story  writer  in  Narayan.  He  was  an  indefatigable 
writer  and  his  books  of  stories  and  novels  number  more  than 
fifty.  His  first  book  of  stories,  Kathdkunja  (A  Bower  of 
Stories)  was  published  in  1907  and  his  first  novel,  Kulu- 
purohit  (The  Family  Priest)  in  1909.  As  a story-teller 
Narayanchandra  may  to  some  extent  be  compared  with 
Saratchandra  Chatterji,  but  he  lacked  the  feeling,  fire  and 
brilliance  of  the  latter.  Sarayubala  Dasgupta  (1889-1949), 
daughter  of  the  erudite  philosopher  Brajendranath  Seal, 
contributed  some  reflective  essays  and  prose  poems.  She  had 
just  published  her  first  book  Vasanta  Prayan  (Passing  Away 
of  the  Spring,  1914).  It  is  an  impersonal  treatment  of  an 
emotional  experience  couched  in  the  form  of  a very  thin 
symbolism.  Rabindranath  Tagore  wrote  an  introduction. 
Her  other  works,  similar  to  the  first,  are  Triveni  (1915)  and 
Devottar  Visvandtya  (Superdivine  Play  of  the  Universe, 
1916).  The  last  is  a symbolic  play  showing  some  influence 
of  Tagore.  There  are  direct  hints  of  the  very  modern 
problems  regarding  the  relation  between  labour  and  capital 
and  between  the  governed  and  governing.  In  all  her  writings 
the  influence  of  her  philosopher  father  is  detectable. 

One  of  the  most  thoughtful  contributors  to  Narayan  was 
Haridas  Haidar  (1862-1934).  He  wrote  for  the  journal  a few 
stories  on  themes  more  realistic  than  usual.  These  were  later 
collected  in  a small  volume  entitled  Madan  Piyadd  (Bailiff 
Madan,  1918).  Haidar’s  first  book  Gobar  Ganeser  Gavesana 
(Researches  of  A Good-for-Nothing,  1916)  attracted  the 
attention  of  Tagore  and  was  very  well  received  by  the 
thoughtful  readers.  It  contains  six  essays  on  some  of  the 
burning  problems  of  the  day:  social,  political,  judicial, 
religious  and  cultural.  The  style  is  simple  and  engaging. 


WORLD  WAR  TO  NON-CO-OPERATION 


351 


showing  rare  humour,  and  the  author’s  analysis  is  probing. 

Satyendrakrishna  Gupta  wrote  some  ‘realistic’  stories 
for  Narayan.  But  the  person  who  was  really  responsible  for 
the  later  ‘realistic’  school  of  fiction  writing  is  Dr.  Nares- 
chandra  Sengupta  (b.  1882).  His  story  Thandidi  (Granny) 
collected  in  his  first  book  of  stories  Dvitiya  Paksa  (The  Second 
Wife,  1919)  appeared  first  in  Narayan  (1918).  Dr.  Sengupta 
went  to  Dacca  as  the  professor  of  law  at  the  newly  founded 
University.  In  a few  years  he  returned  to  Calcutta  to 
practise  at  the  High  Court  but  he  had  left  there  the  seeds  of 
.a  new  literary  movement  that  called  itself  ‘progressive’.  The 
story  in  Narayan  was  followed  by  the  novels  Subha  (1920)  and 
Sasti  (1921)  where  unconventional  ideas  about  sex-relations 
appear  faintly  but  clear  enough  to  have  provoked  the  wrath 
of  some  critics.  The  next  novel  Paper  Chap  (The  Stamp  of 
Sin,  1922),  serialized  under  the  title  Meghnad , deals  to  some 
extent  boldly  with  sex  and  criminology.  After  it  Dr.  Sen- 
gupta practically  returned  to  the  safe  and  popular  path  of 
the  Bengali  novelists.  He  has  produced  up  to  date  about 
fifty  volumes  of  novels  and  short  stories.  He  has  written  also 
some  plays. 

After  the  death  of  Girishchandra  Ghosh  there  was  no 
remarkable  change  in  the  character  and  production  of  plays. 
But  there  was  some  slackening  in  the  religious  tone  in  the 
popular  plays  and  there  was  also  a perceptible  reduction 
in  length.  D.  L.  Roy’s  plays,  specially  Nurjahan  (1908), 
Sajahan  (1909)  and  Candragupta  (1911),  staged  with  usual 
success  by  some  college-student  amateurs,  brought  in  a new 
vogue  of  the  light  historical  play.  Among  the  writers  of 
popular  plays  were  Kshirodprasad  Vidyavinod  (1863-1927), 
Apareshchandra  Mukherji  (1875-1934),  Nishikanta  Basur^y 
and  others.  Vidyavinod,  a veteran  of  the  old  school,  was  the 
first  to  adapt  his  plays  according  to  the  new  trends.  His 
Kinnarl  (Nymphs,  1918)  was  by  far  the  most  popular  opera 
on  the  public  stage  at  the  time. 


352 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


A reform  in  stagecraft  was  brought  about  in  1924  by- 
Sri  Sisirkumar  Bhaduri  (b.  1889)  a college  professor  of  English 
and  one  of  the  leading  members  of  the  young  amateurs  that 
had  popularized  D.  L.  Roy’s  plays.  In  the  reform  of  the 
public  stage  and  shows  Sri  Bhaduri  received  help  from 
Manilal  Ganguli  and  other  friends  and  colleagues. 
Sri  Bhaduri  had  attended  some  sessions  of  Tagore’s  Vichitra 
and  had  witnessed  the  performance  of  Phalgurii.  He 
possessed  unusual  histrionic  powers.  Thus  he  was  ade- 
quately fitted  for  his  task.  Sri  Bhaduri  appeared  profes- 
sionally on  the  public  stage  for  the  first  time  with  Jogesh- 
chandra  Chaudhuri’s  (1887-1948)  Slta  (1924).  It  was  a 
tremendous  success  that  turned  the  course  of  the  history  of 
the  Indian  stage. 


25 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT 
TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR 


After  the  first  surge  of  the  Non-co-operation  movement  the 
political  efforts  were  canalized  into  alternative  spurts  of 
Civil  Disobedience  and  non-co-operation  with  the  British 
Government  in  India  and  of  co-operation  with  the  same 
when  some  measure  of  self-government  was  available.  The 
masses  were  slowly  awakening  into  a kind  of  political 
consciousness  and  the  industrial  development  of  the  country 
appeared  to  be  on  a sure  footing.  English  education  was 
permeating  at  an  increasing  pace  among  the  rural  commu- 
nities, and  the  city  of  Calcutta  and  the  provincial  towns  were 
steadily  drawing  away  the  life-blood  from  the  rural  peri- 
pheries. The  effect  in  literature  was  two-sided.  One  group 
of  young  writers  started  with  a determination  to  describe  the 
slum  life  in  the  city  and  the  suburbs.  To  this  group  were 
soon  affiliated  the  older  writers  who  had  started  ‘realism’  in 
the  pages  of  Bharati  and  Narayan.  The  chief  organ  of  this 
new  ‘modernistic’  movement  in  literature  was  Kallol 
(Rippling  Current)  started  in  1923  by  Gokulchandra  Nag 
and  Dineshranjan  Das. 

Its  precursor  was  a small  book  containing  four  short 
stories  named  Jhader  Dola  (The  Sweep  of  the  Storm,  1922), 
written  by  Gokulchandra  Nag,  Dineshranjan  Das,  Srimati 
Suniti  Devi  and  Sri  Manindralal  Basu,  who  as  publishers 
constituted  the  ‘Four  Arts  Club’.  Nag  was  a student  of  the 
Government  Art  School  and  Das  an  amateur  actor.  Suniti 
Devi  wrote  verse  and  Basu  stories.  Some  of  the  stories  of 
the  young  writers  of  Kallol  were  considered  improper 
according  to  the  accepted  literary  morals  of  the  time.  The 
journal  was  by  no  means  a popular  one  and  the  contributors 
were  mostly  unknown  as  yet.  As  such  the  readers’  reaction 
was  not  expected  for  some  time.  But  some  other  writers 
(not  very  young)  took  up  the  cudgel  against  the  Kallol  group 
23 


354 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


and  tried  to  awaken  a hostile  reaction  by  satirizing  their 
writings  in  a periodical  published  exclusively  for  this 
purpose.  It  was  Sanibarer  Citjii  (The  Saturday  Post)  first 
published  as  a weekly  (November  1924)  and  then  as  a 
monthly,  founded  by  Sri  Asok  Chatterji  and  later  conducted 
by  Sri  Sajanikanta  Das.  Some  of  the  darts  went  home,  no 
doubt,  but  the  desired  effect  was  not  manifest.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  turned  out  as  vicarious  but  effective  propaganda 
for  the  writings  of  the  new  ‘progressive’  school,  which  other- 
wise would  have  escaped  notice  altogether.  Presently  two 
periodicals  came  out  to  flank  Kallol:  Kali-Kalam  (Ink  and 
Pen,  1927)  from  Calcutta  and  Pragati  (Progress,  1928) 
from  Dacca. 

The  new  ‘progressive’  writers  had  all  received  their 
sustenance  from  Tagore  but  being  denied — as  some  of  them 
confessed — the  spirit  of  Indian  tradition  they  could  not  fully 
gauge  the  depth  of  Tagore’s  poetry.  Some  of  these  writers 
were  possibly  influenced  by  the  rejection  of  Tagore’s  poetry 
as  oriental  patter  by  the  younger  generation  of  English  poets. 
But  the  real  force  behind  their  anti-Tagore  attitude  was  a 
recrudescence  of  hostility  against  the  master  and  his  works. 
The  Dacca  section  of  the  ‘progressive’  group  led  by  Dr.  Nares- 
chandra  Sengupta  the  novelist  and  Mohitlal  Mazumdar  the 
poet  proclaimed  that  the  day  of  Tagorean  literature  was  over 
and  accordingly  their  followers  echoed  that  Tagore  was  a hin- 
drance to  their  progress.  Thoughtful  critics  like  Sri  Nalini- 
kanta  Gupta  (b.  1889)  admitted  that  some  of  the  ‘progressive’ 
writers  showed  originality  of  approach  and  power  of  ex- 
pression, but  they  were  definitely  against  the  creation  of 
problems  and  situations  that  were  not  there  and  also  against 
the  imposition  of  ideas  and  ideals  that  were  foreign  and 
antagonistic  to  our  mental  make-up  and  cultural  tradition. 

Tagore  was  approached  on  behalf  of  both  the  opposing 
groups  for  a verdict  on  the  issue  between  ‘traditional’  and 
‘progressive’  literature.  The  position  was  rather  difficult  for 
him  but  he  could  not  but  agree  and  call  a meeting  at  the 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  355 


Vichitra  Hall  of  his  Calcutta  residence.  The  protagonists  of 
the  two  camps  and  some  non-party  literary  men  were  in- 
vited to  attend.  There  were  two  sittings  (March  1927).  On 
the  first  day  Tagore  addressed  the  meeting  and  said 
that  the  creation  of  new  forms  is  the  main  purpose  of  the 
literary  art  and  the  content — be  it  imported,  adulterated, 
traditional,  or  original — matters  only  so  far  as  it  helps  in  the 
creation  of  a new  form.  He  analysed  the  ‘modernness’  of  the 
contemporary  European  literature  and  denied  its  validity  for 
the  contemporary  literature  in  Bengal.  There  was  a dis- 
cussion at  the  second  sitting  three  days  later,  but  no  conclu- 
sion was  arrived  at.  Tagore’s  analysis  and  judgement  did  not 
satisfy  the  ‘progressive’  group  but  they  kept  silent  for  the 
time  being.  Tagore’s  address  was  followed  by  an  essay  on 
the  essence  of  literature  ( Sahityar  Dharma,  July  1928). 
Dr.  Nareschandra  Sengupta  wrote  in  reply  his  essay  Sahitya- 
dharmer  Simana  (Limits  of  the  Essence  of  Literature,  August 
1928).  Dr.  Sengupta  accused  Tagore  of  transgressing  the 
limits  himself,  but  his  arguments  were  practically  the  same 
as  had  been  put  forward  by  D.  L.  Roy  a score  of  years  before. 
Dwijendranarayan  Bagchi  wrote  his  last  essay  Sahityadharmer 
Simana  Vicar  (Delimitation  of  the  Essence  of  Literature)  and 
defended  Tagore  vigorously.  Dr.  Sengupta  wrote  a reply  to 
Bagchi’s  essay.  This  controversy  ensued  in  the  pages  of 
Vichitra  and  the  wrangle  might  have  continued  indefinitely 
had  not  Tagore  stopped  it  effectively  by  writing  the  novel 
Seser  Kavita  and  by  creating  the  form  of  ‘Gadya  Kavita’ 
(entirely  free  verse). 

An  immediate  product  of  the  post-war  dissatisfaction  and 
Non-co-operation  was  the  poetry  of  Kazi  Nazrul  Islam 
(b.  1899).  When  still  a school  student  in  his  teens  Nazrul 
joined  the  newly  recruited  Bengali  Regiment  (1916)  and 
was  sent  to  Mesopotamia  some  months  before  the  armistice. 
The  regiment  was  not  given  a chance  to  face  battle  but  all 
the  same  Nazrul  got  his  fill  of  the  fighting  gusto  which  later 


356 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


found  expression  in  poetic  effusion  and  warmth.  There  was 
a Maulvi  from  the  Panjab  attached  to  the  regiment  who  was 
a lover  of  Persian  poetry.  Nazrul  read  Hafiz  with  him  and 
this  was  his  real  initiation  in  poetry.  On  return  home  (1918) 
he  wrote  some  poems  paraphrasing  Hafiz.  His  first  two 
significant  poems,  Pralayollas  (Exhilaration  at  the  Final 
Dissolution)  and  Vidroha  (Rebellion)  appeared  early  in  1922 
and  his  first  book  of  poems  Agnivina  (The  Lute  of  Fire)  was 
out  before  the  year  was  over.  The  book  was  received  with 
an  enthusiasm  never  experienced  in  our  country  before  or 
since.  Nazrul  now  joined  the  Kallol  group  and  wrote  mostly 
deft  and  pungent  verse  and  songs  galore.  He  produced  more 
than  twenty  books  of  poetry  and  songs  (mostly  small  ones) 
and  some  fiction  and  plays.  Some  of  his  later  poems  were 
good  but  the  fire  of  Agnivina  was  already  quenched. 

Nazrul  was  an  emotional  soul  but  his  emotion  was  un- 
stable and  volatile.  Those  who  came  in  personal  contact  with 
him  were  moved  by  his  irresistible  enthusiasm  and  sincerity. 
But  his  literary  output  falls  far  short  of  his  merit,  except  the 
early  poems  in  Agnivina.  The  effusive  personality  of  Nazrul 
imparted  to  these  poems  a liveliness  which  at  once  distin- 
guished them  from  the  writings  of  his  contemporaries.  His 
diction  was  invigorated  by  the  effective  use  of  Persian  and 
Arabic  words.  Nazrul  became  interested  in  politics  and 
later  also  in  devotionalism,  which  was  detrimental  to  his 
poetry.  After  Agnivina  his  best  known  books  of  poems  and 
songs  are  Dolancampa  (1923),  Biser  Barhsi  (The  Poisonous 
Flute,  1924),  Bhangar  Gan  (Songs  of  the  Break-up,  1924), 
Puber  Hdoyd  (The  East  Wind,  1925)  and  Bulbul  (1928). 

Mohitlal  Majumdar  (1888-1952)  was  a school  teacher  but 
his  profession  did  not  mean  much  to  him.  He  joined  the 
Kallol  group  with  Kazi  Nazrul  Islam.  But  he  had  been 
already  writing  verse  for  some  years.  He  was  related  to 
Devendranath  Sen  and  started  on  his  literary  career  as  an 
admirer  of  Sen’s  poetry.  Majumdar’s  first  book  of  verse  is 
Devendra-mangal  (1912),  a thin  pamphlet,  where  he  paid  his 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  357 


homage  to  the  elder  poet.  In  1919  he  joined  the  Bharati 
group  and  became  a regular  contributor  to  Bharati.  His 
verse  now  followed  the  sonorous  and  tripping  mode  of 
Satyendranath  Datta  but  the  influence  of  Datta  however  he 
tried  his  best  to  outgrow.  Nazrul’s  influence  helped  him  to 
do  so.  His  diction  now  indulged  in  Persian  vocables  and 
also  in  themes  from  Persian  poetry.  Majumdar’s  first  signi- 
ficant book  of  poems  Svapan-pasari  (A  Dealer  in  Dreams, 
1922)  made  him  known  as  a poet  of  power  and  promise. 
His  attitude  to  life  and  death  was  already  emergent  in  one 
of  its  poems  ‘Aghorpanthi’  (The  Ghoulish  Mendicant),  first 
appearing  in  1920.  There  is  some  touch  of  Omar  Khayyam 
in  it.  When  Svapan-pasari  came  out  Majumdar  suddenly 
appeared  to  have  lost  enthusiasm  for  Tagore’s  poetry.  This 
made  his  access  to  the  Kallol  group  easy,  although  he  was 
much  older  than  the  oldest  of  them. 

Some  of  the  characteristic  poems  included  in  his  second 
book  of  poems  Vismarani  (Disremembrance,  1929)  were  first 
published  in  Kallol.  The  poet  now  accepts  life  at  its  face 
value  and  he  would  enjoy  it  at  any  cost.  There  is  only  nihil 
for  him  beyond  death.  In  the  poem  ‘Mohamudgar’  (A  Cudgel 
against  Self-deception)  he  puts  a challenge  to  Tagore: 

Gazing  with  face  uplifted  at  the  white  flowers  of  the 
night  and  contemplating  on  the  vista  of  the  nebulas, 
rejecting  with  a contemptuous  laugh  the  streams  of  milk 
in  the  full  breasts  of  the  earth,  contriving  mirages  for 
the  hungry  man  and  starving  your  own  self  here  for 
a long,  long  time,  O lord  of  the  poets,  how  long  will 
you  continue  to  lull  the  mortal  man  by  dispensing 
sleeping  draught? 

This  attitude  to  life  is  modified  in  the  poem  ‘Pantha’ 
(The  Wayfarer)  addressed  to  Schopenhauer  ‘the  philosopher 
and  sannyasi’.  Here  the  poet  would  like  a continuity  of  some 
sort  of  super-consciousness  beyond  death.  This  is  not  soul 
but  the  flow  of  a continuum,  what  in  Buddhist  philosophy 


358 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


binds  the  five  skandhas.  Majumdar  produced  two  other 
books  of  poems:  Smaragaral  (The  Poison  of  Desire,  1936) 
and  He  manta-go  dhuli  (A  Winter’s  Dusk,  1941).  Chanda- 
caturdasi  (1944),  a book  of  sonnets,  is  a posthumous  pub- 
lication. After  he  had  joined  the  Dacca  University  as  a 
lecturer  in  Bengali,  Majumdar  quickly  disaffiliated  himself 
from  the  ‘progressive’  school  whose  main  centre  of  activity 
was  shifting  over  to  the  one-time  capital  of  East  Bengal. 
But  he  turned  back  not  towards  Tagore  but  past  him  to 
the  nineteenth  century  masters  Michael  Madhusudan  Dutt 
and  Bankim  Chandra  Chatterji.  He  now  wrote  a number 
of  critical  essays,  later  collected  into  books  such  as  Adhunik 
Bangla  Sahitya  (1936),  Sdhitya-katha  (1938),  Sahitya-witan 
(1942),  etc. 

Majumdar  was  a careful  and  patient  writer  of  verse  and 
he  was  meticulous  in  his  diction.  This  is  one  of  the  reasons 
why  he  wrote  sparsely. 

Jatindranath  Sengupta  (1887-1954)  was  a graduate  in 
engineering  and  was  employed  as  an  inspecting  engineer  in 
the  district  of  Murshidabad.  He  was  writing  verse  from 
1910,  if  not  earlier,  but  his  first  book  of  poems  was  not  pub- 
lished before  1923.  The  first  three  books  are  Maficika  (The 
Mirage,  1923),  Marusikha  (The  Desert  Flame,  1927)  and 
Marumaya  (The  Desert  Illusion,  1930).  These  titles  are 
indicative  of  his  peculiar  view  of  life.  It  is  not  an  attitude 
of  revolt  nor  of  denial.  He  takes  life  as  good  on  the  whole 
but  he  cannot  gloss  over  its  disappointments,  frustrations, 
failures  and  sufferings.  Hence  the  characteristic  note  of  his 
poetry  is  a mild  but  sarcastic  protest.  The  temperamental 
difference  between  Sengupta  and  Majumdar  is  clearly  notice- 
able in  their  poems  entitled  ‘Duhkher  Kavi’  (The  Poet  of 
Misery).  Majumdar’s  poem  was  written  much  later  and  is 
palpably  a rejoinder  to  the  other’s.  Sengupta  says: 

She  has  resolved,  I understand:  If  pure  gold  is  not 

available  I would  go  without  ornaments  but  I will  not 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  359 


delude  myself  with  the  fake!  ...  Is  worship  and 
devotion  done  merely  by  touching  the  head  at  the  holy 
feet  as  an  act  of  atonement?  To  break  away  from  the 
halter  and  run  straight  into  the  pen:  is  that  salvation? 

Majumdar  thinks: 

If  a man  really  feels  happy  in  delusion  and  falsehood, 
if  he  makes  out  a cold  plate  of  rice  to  be  a hot  dish,  if 
a childless  woman  feels  motherly  and  happy  by  adopting 
a stone  image  of  child  Krishna,  who  is  there  that  does 
not  feel  tearfully  thankful  at  her  satisfaction?  Who 
would  like  to  hurt  her  by  telling  the  hard  truth? 

After  a long  interval  Sengupta  published  .two  more 
volumes  of  poetry:  Say  am  (Evening,  1940)  and  Triyama 
(Night,  1948).  Nisantika  (End  of  the  Night,  1957)  is  a 
posthumous  collection.  His  only  prose  work  Kavya-parimiti 
(Calculus  of  Poetry,  1930)  deals  with  poetics  in  general. 

Gokclchandra  Nag  (1895-1925),  the  joint  founder  of  Kallol, 
was  a student  of  the  Government  Art  School  but  he  left 
school  before  completing  his  course.  He  ran  a flower  stall 
in  Calcutta.  In  his  habit  and  character  as  well  as  in 
profession  he  was  a lover  of  the  artistic.  He  started  the 
monthly  Kallol  with  the  help  of  Dinesranjan  Das  (1888-1941) 
in  May  1923.  Throughout  the  seven  years  of  its  existence 
the  periodical  remained  the  principal  organ  of  the  new 
‘progressive’  movement  in  Bengali  literature.  Bharati  was 
moribund  when  Kallol  started,  and  Sabujpatra  had  been 
intermittent.  The  oldest  and  the  youngest  of  the  reputed 
magazines  finally  stopped  publication  before  the  year  1927 
was  over.  After  the  death  of  Nag  Kallol  was  run  by  Das. 

Nag’s  earliest  attempts  were  some  storiettes  after  the 
manner  of  Tagore’s  Lipika.  These  were  published  in 
Pravasl  and  Bharati  and  elsewhere  and  were  collected  in  the 
volume  Ruprekha  (The  Form  and  the  Outline,  1922).  Some 


360 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


of  his  mature  stories  were  collected  in  the  posthumous  volume 
Mayamukul  (Buds  of  Delusion,  1927).  His  best  work,  how- 
ever, is  the  novel  Patliik  (Wayfarer,  1925),  serialized  in 
Kallol  from  its  first  issue.  There  is  not  much  of  a connected 
story  here  but  the  glimpses  of  life  it  seeks  to  catch  and  the 
author’s  easy  and  mindful  style  makes  it  the  first  production 
of  a new  mode  of  fiction  and  a readable  book. 

Das  had  written  some  short  stories  five  of  which  were 
published  in  the  volumes  Matir  Nesa  (Addiction  to  Earth, 
1918)  and  Bhuirh-carhpa  (1925).  Das  was  a good  amateur 
play-actor  and  was  interested  in  the  stage.  After  the  dis- 
continuance of  the  periodical  he  turned  to  the  cinema  for 
a profession. 

Sri  Maninclralal  Basu  (b.  1897)  is  less  lyrical  and  he 
leans  definitely  towards  the  romanticism  of  the  Bharati  group. 
His  first  novel  Ramala  (1923)  is  a romantic  love-story  of  a 
comfortably  placed  social  set.  It  influenced  some  of  the  young 
writers  of  fiction.  Basu  began  his  literary  career  as  a writer 
of  short  stories  which  won  him  recognition.  He  has  pub- 
lished several  volumes  of  short  stories:  Mayapurl  (The  Fairy 
City,  1923),  Raktakamal  (The  Red  Lily,  1924),  Sonar  Harin 
(The  Golden  Deer,  1924),  Kalpalata  (The  Wish  Creeper, 
1935),  Sahayatrini  (The  Lady  Fellow  Traveller,  1941),  etc. 
His  other  novels  are  Ajaykumar  (1932)  and  Jlvanayan  (The 
Saga  of  Life,  1936). 

Sri  Sailajananda  Mukherji  (b.  1900)  was  Kazi  Nazrul 
Islam’s  school-fellow  and  chum  in  a mining  town  in  West 
Bengal.  Mukherji  too  ran  away  from  home  with  his  friend, 
intending  to  join  the  Bengali  regiment.  But  he  was  found 
out  by  his  guardians  in  Calcutta  and  taken  back  home.  After 
the  return  of  Nazrul  from  Mesopotamia  Mukherji  resumed 
with  his  friend  his  interrupted  literary  venture.  In  their 
school  days  Mukherji  was  inclined  to  write  verse  while 
Nazrul  was  interested  in  writing  stories  in  prose.  But  now 
their  interests  were  reversed.  Mukherji  began  writing 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  361 


short  stories  while  Nazrul  started  writing  poetry,  and  these 
early  attempts  of  theirs  were  published  in  Vangiya  Musalman 
Sahitya  Patrika  (1921).  Mukherji’s  early  stories  were  collect- 
ed in  a book  entitled  Amer  Manjari  (Mango  Blossoms,  1923). 
Two  of  the  stories  give  a good  glimpse  of  Muslim  family 
life.  Two  long  stories  or  novelettes  followed  ( Hasi  and 
Laksmi)  immediately,  and  these  stories  are  to  some  extent 
based  on  the  author’s  early  experiences  in  Calcutta.  These 
experiences,  however,  were  used  forcefully  and  poignantly  in 
some  of  his  later  stories  like  Dhvarnsapather  Yatri  Era  (Tra- 
vellers on  the  Way  to  Death  Are  They). 

Mukherji’s  first  real  appearance  before  the  knowledge- 
able reader  was  with  his  short  stories  depicting  the  life  of 
the  local  labour  in  the  coal  fields  near  about  his  home  town. 
The  first  of  these  are  Raising  Report  published  in  Pravasi 
(March  1923),  Balidan  (The  Sacrifice)  in  the  same  journal 
(April  1923),  Ma  (Mother)  in  Kallol  (April  1923)  and  Narir 
Man  also  in  Kallol  (May  1923).  Such  stories  continued  in 
Kallol,  Pravasi , Vahgavani  and  Bijali  up  to  the  end  of  1925. 
Collected  in  the  volumes  Kaylakuthi  (The  Coal-mine  Office, 

1930)  and  Din-majur  (A  Day  Labourer,  1932)  these  stories 
make  a landmark  in  Bengali  literature  not  only  for  vivid 
realism  and  grim  tragedy  but  also  for  introducing  for  the 
first  time  the  vogue  of  the  regional  fiction.  Mukherji’s 
subsequent  stories  maintained  the  standard.  The  plots  are 
taken  from  personal  experience  or  immediate  knowledge 
and  they  are  transcribed  faithfully  without  any  emotive  im- 
position. The  ambition  of  an  author  anxious  to  cut  a figure 
did  nowhere  stand  between  the  plot  and  its  execution.  The 
short  and  long  stories  compiled  in  the  volumes  Atasi  (1925), 
Narimedh  (The  Woman  Sacrifice,  1928),  V adhu-varan  (Wel- 
come to  the  Bride,  1931),  Paus  Parvan  (Winter  Festival, 

1931) ,  Sati-asati  (The  Chaste  and  Unchaste  Girl,  1933),  Nari- 
janma  (A  Woman’s  Life,  1934),  etc.  contain  some  of  the 
best  stories  that  Mukherji  has  written.  His  novels,  or  rather 
novelettes,  such  as  Matir  Ghar  (1923),  Jhado  Hdoya  (Gusty 


362 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Wind,  1923),  Joyar-bhata  (The  Tides,  1924),  Anahuta 
(Uninvited,  1931)  Anivarya  (Irresistible,  1931),  etc.  are 
rather  weak.  But  Sola-ana  (The  Full  Complement,  1925) 
is  an  exception.  It  is  not  a novel  in  the  ordinary  sense;  it 
depicts  village  life  in  West  Bengal  centred  round  the 
annual  festival  of  the  village  deity,  a life  that  is  real  and 
sordid  but  neither  glossed  over  nor  exaggerated. 

As  a writer  of  the  realistic  short  story  Jagadis  Chandra 
Gupta  (1886-1957)  is  popularly  associated  with  Sri  Sailaja- 
nanda  Mukherji.  Both  writers  write  straight  from  life 
and  experience  but  while  Mukherji’s  stories  are  strictly 
impersonal  and  faintly  emotive  Gupta  delivers  them  raw 
and  slightly  tinctured  with  mockery.  Gupta  started  his 
literary  career  by  writing  verse  after  Govindachandra  Das; 
some  of  these  were  collected  in  the  volume  Aksara.  He  had 
never  given  up  writing  verse  but  these  were  no  longer  lyrical 
poems.  Gupta’s  first  short  story  ‘Paying  Guest’  and  the  next 
were  first  published  in  Bijali  (1925).  The  next  stories  came 
out  in  Kali-Kalam  (1926),  Kallol  and  Vangavani.  The  first 
volume  of  his  most  characteristic  short  stories  is  Vinodini 
(1928).  He  produced  eight  or  nine  more  volumes  of  short 
stories,  such  as  Ruper  Bahire  (Beyond  Beauty,  1929), 
Srimati  (1930),  Gatihara  Jahnavi  (The  Unflowing  Ganga, 
1935),  Sasanka  Kavirajer  Stn  (Sasanka  Kaviraj’s  Wife,  1935), 
Pdik  Sri  Mihir  Prdmanik  (Mihir  Pramanik  the  Bailiff,  1940), 
Meghavrta  Asani  (Thunder  Screened  by  Cloud,  1947),  etc. 
He  produced  also  a dozen  of  long  stories  or  short  novels, 
e.g.  Asadhu  Siddhartha  (Dishonest  Siddhartha,  1929),  Mahisi 
(1929),  Duldler  Doha  (Dulal’s  Dilemma,  1931),  Romanthan 
(Cud-chewing,  1931),  etc.  The  short  stories  of  Gupta  are 
grimly  realistic,  often  pathologically  cruel.  The  psychosis 
of  the  abnormal  is  followed  in  some  of  them  and  they  are 
pervaded  by  a terrific  fatalism  somewhat  like  that  of  Greek 
tragedies.  The  plots  of  his  long  stories  or  short  novels  are 
not  fit  for  such  treatment  and  are  more  or  less  propagandist! c 
and  the  author  was  not  always  unaware  of  it.  So  he  says 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  363 


in  the  preface  of  Dulaler  Dola  that  he  would  not  be  sur- 
prised if  these  works  are  not  judged  as  fiction  but  as  essays. 

Bibhutibhushan  Banerji  (1899-1950)  had  been  writing 
short  stories  which  appeared  in  Pravasi  since  1922  but  they 
did  not  attract  much  notice  before  the  publication  of  his 
first  novel  Father  Parhcall  (A  Pedestrian’s  Rhymes,  1929)  in 
the  pages  of  the  newly  started  magazine  Vichitra,  with  Sri 
Upendranath  Ganguli  (b.  1881),  a member  of  the  old 
Bhagalpur  group  and  author  of  the  novel  Raj  path  (1925)  and 
other  novels  and  short  stories,  as  the  editor.  This  master- 
piece of  Banerji  and  its  sequel  Aparajita  (1932),  based  on 
the  author’s  own  life-story,  are  written  with  a rare  sincerity 
and  fulness  of  heart  that  never  fail  to  strike  a note  of 
nostalgic  sympathy  in  the  emotional  reader.  But  some  of 
the  stories  that  Banerji  had  written  earlier  show  him  at  his 
best.  Among  these  may  be  mentioned  ‘Umarani’  (first  pub- 
lished 1922)  and  ‘Pui-maca’  (The  Kitchen  Garden  Scaffold- 
ing; first  published  1925).  These  and  his  later  short  stories 
are  collected  in  more  than  a dozen  volumes,  such  as  Megh- 
mallar  (1931),  Mauriphul  (1932),  Jatra  Badal  (1934),  etc. 
Banerji’s  novels  are  not  a few  and  they  include  besides  those 
already  mentioned:  Drstipradip  (The  Look — a Lamp,  1935), 
Aranyak  (The  Wild,  1938),  Adarsa  Hindu  Hotel  (1940), 
Bipiner  Samsar  (Bipin’s  Home,  1941),  Devayan  (Spirit’s  Path, 
1944),  Icchamati  (1949),  etc.  Banerji  was  a lover  of  the  flora. 
He  liked  the  hilly  and  wild  land  and  this  love  is  fully  re- 
flected in  Aranyak.  He  was  romantic  and  lyrical  by  tem- 
perament and  had  a definite  bias  towards  the  occult  and  the 
spiritual.  This  is  noticeable  in  some  of  his  later  novels. 

Sri  Bibhutibhushan  Mukherji  (b.  1896)  had  one  of  his 
earliest  stories  published  in  Pravasi  in  1923.  Since  then  his 
short  stories  have  been  published  in  various  journals  and 
these  have  been  collected  in  several  volumes,  such  as  Ranur 
Pratham  Bhag  (Ranu’s  First  Spelling  Book,  1937),  Ranur 
Dvitiya  Bhag  (Ranu’s  Second  Book  of  Reading,  1938),  Ranur 
Kathdmdla  (Ranu’s  Storybook,  1941),  Hate  Khadi  (Initiation 


364 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


in  Writing,  1947),  etc.  Mukherji  has  written  also  some 
novels  and  plays.  His  short  stories  are  written  in  a light  and 
jocose  vein,  and  are  quite  popular. 

The  short  story  of  a very  short  size  not  belonging  to 
the  lyrical  or  ‘prose  poem’  variety  but  showing  snapshots  of 
real  life  on  the  surface,  was  cultivated  successfully  by 
Rabindranath  Maitra  (1896-1933)  who  during  his  life-time 
was  generally  known  by  his  pen-name  ‘Divakar  sarma’.  His 
first  and  one  of  his  best  short  stories  ‘Third  Class’,  giving 
a glimpse  of  a railway  journey  in  a crowded  third  class  com- 
partment, was  published  in  Bijall  (1925).  His  short-stories 
are  collected  in  seven  books:  Third  Class  (1928),  Vastavika 
(Bits  of  Reality,  1931),  Udasir  Math  (1931),  Divakari  (1931), 
Trilocan  Kaviraj  (1933),  etc.  His  comic  play  Manmayl 
Girl’s  School  (1932)  is  still  popular  on  the  amateur  stage. 

Kedarnath  Banerji  (1863-1949)  was  a contributor  to  Balak 
of  Tagore  (1885)  but  he  discontinued  writing  for  more 
than  two  decades.  He  was  in  Government  service  and  was 
posted  in  various  places  in  Upper  India.  He  was  sent  to 
China  and  this  travel  produced  the  essays  that  were  first 
published  as  letters  from  a sojourner  in  China  in  Bhdrati 
(1903-04)  and  much  later  as  a book  entitled  Cinydtri  (1918). 
His  first  book,  however,  is  a humorous  poem  on  life  in 
general  in  Banaras:  Kdslr  Kihcit  (A  Wee  Bit  of  Kashi,  1915). 
As  a writer  of  short  stories  Banerji  first  appeared  in  Kali- 
Kalam  (1926)  with  the  story  ‘Kabluti’.  Later  he  became  a 
regular  contributor  to  Bhdratvarsa.  Banerji  wrote  stories 
and  novels  in  a light-hearted  manner  which  made  him 
popular  with  the  general  reader.  His  style  is  based  on  the 
Calcutta  patois  of  the  past  generation  but  notwithstanding 
such  mannerism  it  is  smooth  and  enjoyable.  His  novels  are 
more  or  less  long-drawn  series  of  pleasant  talks  and  back- 
chats.  To  mention  some:  Kosthir  Phalaphal  (Result  of 
Horoscope  Reading,  1929),  Bhadudi  Masai  (Mr.  Bhaduri, 
1931),  I Has  (1935),  etc.  His  stories  are  of  much  more  abid- 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  365 


ing  value.  They  are  collected  in  several  books,  such  as 
Amra  Ki  O Ke  (What  and  Who  Are  We,  1927),  Kabluti 
(Agreement,  1928),  Patheya  (Traveller’s  Purse,  1930), 
Duhkher  Deoyali  (Floodlight  of  Misery,  1932),  etc. 

Sri  Rajshekhar  Basu  (b.  1880)  is  one  of  the  best  writers 
of  the  humorous  story  in  Bengali  and  he  may  be  compared 
to  the  English  writer  Jerome  K.  Jerome.  Basu’s  stories  are 
illustrated  by  pen  and  ink  sketches  by  Sri  Jatindrakumar 
Sen.  Sen’s  pen  and  ink  drawings  and  silhouettes  were  an 
attractive  feature  in  Manasi  O Marmavani  edited  by  Prabhat- 
kumar  Mukherji.  It  was  these  drawings  of  Sen  that  some- 
how induced  Basu  to  write  his  short  stories.  The  first  few 
were  published  in  Bharatvarsa,  and  as  soon  as  the  first  story 
‘Virinci  Baba’  (The  Reverend  Virinci)  was  out  the  success 
of  the  unnamed  author  was  assured.  The  successive  stories 
(all  published  in  his  pseudonym  ‘Parasuram’)  enhanced 
his  reputation,  and  he  is  now  regarded  as  one  of  the  best 
writers  in  the  language.  Basu  ridicules  all  that  is  sham 
and  frivolous  in  our  middle  class  society  but  the  ridicule 
hurts  nobody,  amuses  all.  Basu  has  published  several 
volumes  of  humorous  stories,  such  as  Gaddalika  (Sheep-flock 
on  the  Move,  1924),  Kajjali  (Lamp-black,  1927),  Hanumdner 
Svapna  (The  Monkey’s  Dream,  1937),  Krsnakali  (1953),  etc. 
Basu  has  also  written  some  thoughtful  essays  which  are 
collected  in  Laghuguru  (Light  and  Heavy,  1939),  Bicinta 
(Various  Thoughts,  1956),  etc. 

Sri  Prabodhkumar  Sannyal  (b.  1907)  published  one  of  his 
first  stories  in  Kallol  (1924).  In  a few  months  he  emerged 
as  one  of  the  major  contributors  of  short  stories  to  Kdli-Kalam 
(1926)  started  by  Sri  Sailajananda  Mukherji,  Sri  Premendra 
Mitra  and  Sri  Muralidhar  Basu.  These  short  stories  or 
sketches  were  collected  in  the  book  entitled  Nisipadma 
(Lotus  at  Night,  1931)  but  his  first  book  was  the  novel 
Jajavar  (The  Nomad,  1928).  It  was  followed  by  Kajallata 
(1931),  Kalarav  (Loud  Talking,  1932),  etc.  Sannyal  is  spe- 


366 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


dally  happy  in  his  books  on  travel ; among  these  Maha- 
prasthaner  Pathe  (On  the  Road  to  the  Great  Departure, 
1933)  is  worth  mention.  Sannyal  writes  in  a neat  and  smooth 
style  which  has  its  own  appeal.  In  his  stories  and  novels  he 
appears  as  an  impassive  observer  who  would  miss  nothing. 

Sri  Premendra  Mitra,  Sri  Achintyakumar  Sengupta  and 
Sri  Buddhadev  Basu  at  the  first  stage  of  their  literary  career 
formed  a trio  that  was  made  notorious  by  the  detractors 
of  the  new  ‘progressive’  school.  There  is  one  trait  common 
among  them:  they  showed  equal  facility  in  writing  prose 
and  verse  when  they  started,  and  with  the  exception  of 
Sengupta  they  have  continued  to  do  so  with  still  better 
facility.  The  trio  also  had  collaborated  to  produce  two 
novels. 

Sri  Premendra  Mitra  (b.  1904)  was  a member  of  the 
editorial  board  of  Kali-Kalam  for  two  years  (1926-28),  and 
in  this  journal  some  of  his  best  known  poems  and  short  stories 
were  published.  Before  this  he  had  been  contributing  to 
Pravasi,  but  mainly  to  the  weekly  Bijali  and  later  also  to 
Pragati  edited  by  Sri  Ajit  Datta  and  Sri  Buddhadev  Basu 
and  published  from  Dacca.  His  earliest  work  Parhk 
(Muck,  1927),  a novelette  describing  the  seamy  side  of  the 
home-life  of  the  slum-dwellers  in  Calcutta,  was  serialized  in 
Bijali  (1925)  and  continued  in  Kali-Kalam  (1926).  Parhk 
fetched  him  notoriety  but  the  subsequent  publications 
brought  him  just  repute.  His  short  stories  are  compiled  in 
several  books,  such  as  Pahcasar  (The  God  with  Five  Arrows, 
1929),  Benami  Bandar  (The  Anonymous  Port,  1930),  Mrttika 
(The  Soil,  1932),  etc. 

Mitra  is  better  known  as  a poet  and  justly  so.  From  the 
very  start  his  poems  showed  an  unostentatiousness  and  a 
maturity  denied  to  most  of  his  contemporaries.  Miseries 
and  failures  in  life,  specially  of  the  unfortunate  and  the 
deprived  who  toil  without  adequate  recompense  for  the 
well-being  of  the  rich  and  the  fortunate,  moved  him  pro- 
foundly but  he  is  never  malicious,  angry,  or  loud  in  his 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  367 


censure.  Unlike  some  of  his  colleagues,  sex  was  not  an 
overriding  consideration  with  him.  It  was  really  joie  de  vivre 
more  than  anything  else  that  impelled  the  heart  of  the  poet 
to  feel  as  one  of  the  millions  that  toiled  ignominiously.  So 
he  says  in  the  poem  Pamodal  (The  Bands  that  Trudge,  first 
published  1925): 

Who  goes  there  that  cannot  use  his  legs  by  always  riding 
in  palanquins?  Come  you,  and  walk  in  step  with  them 
whose  feet  are  naked  and  strong. 

Who  goes  there  that  steps  on  the  heads  of  men  and  so 
makes  their  feet  feel  heavy  with  the  load  of  sin?  Come 
you,  and  drop  the  load  in  the  dust  of  the  road. 

This  love-for-the-labourer  phase  passed  presently  and  Mitra’s 
verse  became  placidly  lyrical  and  pervaded  with  a dreamy 
vision  of  the  beauty  of  nature  geographically  unconfined. 

Mitra  has  produced  up  to  now  four  rather  small  volumes 
of  poetry:  Prathama  (The  First  Girl,  1932),  Samrat  (The 
Emperor,  1940),  Pherari  Phauj  (The  Runaway  Army,  1948) 
and  Sagar  Theke  Pherd  (Return  from  the  Sea,  1956).  His 
only  book  of  essays  is  Vrsti  Elo  (The  Rains  are  Come,  1954). 
Mitra  has  written  also  stories  for  children. 

Sri  Achintyakumar  Sengupta  (b.  1903)  was  more  feli- 
citous in  verse  than  in  prose.  His  first  significant  poem 
Amavasya  (New  Moon,  1930)  is  an  enjoyable  piece,  smooth 
and  impassioned,  occasionally  reminding  the  reader  of  Kazi 
Nazrul  Islam.  He  has  produced  three  more  books  of  verse: 
Amra  (We,  1933),  Priya  O Prthivi  (The  Beloved  and  the 
Earth,  1936)  and  Nil  Akas  (The  Blue  Sky,  1950).  Sengupta’s 
first  novel  (and  book)  Bede  (The  Nomad,  1928)  is  directly 
influenced  by  Knut  Hamsun’s  Hunger.  It  was  first  serialized 
in  Kallol  (1926-1927),  and  was  followed  by  a translation  of 
Hamsun’s  Pan  and  by  Tutaphuta  (Broken  and  Leaking, 
1929),  a collection  of  six  stories  first  published  in  different 
journals.  Since  then  Sengupta  has  produced  more  than 
thirty  volumes  of  novels  and  long  stories  and  more  than 


368 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


twenty  books  of  short  stories.  Among  his  novels  the  more 
important  are:  Akasmik  (Accidental,  1930),  Vivaher  Ceye 
Bado  (Higher  than  Marriage,  1931),  Pracir  O Prantar  (The 
Wall  and  the  Distance,  1932),  Urnanabh  (The  Spider,  1933), 
Indrani  (1933),  Tumi  Ar  Ami  (You  and  I,  1934),  etc.  Of  his 
books  of  short  stories  the  following  may  be  mentioned:  Iti 
(1932),  Rudrer  Avirbhdv  (Appearance  of  Rudra,  1934), 
Double  Decker  (1938),  ] atari  Bibi  (1944),  Kath-Khad-Kerosin 
(Fuel,  Straw  and  Kerosine,  1945),  Hadi  Muci  Dom 
(1948),  etc. 

Like  almost  all  his  contemporaries  Sengupta  is  more  at 
home  in  the  short  story  than  in  the  novel.  His  earlier  novels 
and  stories  were  at  one  time  not  acceptable  to  the  general 
reader,  as  he  seemed  heterodox  in  theme  and  execution. 
His  style  was  often  forced  and  far  from  happy.  The  common 
reader’s  reaction  against  the  characteristic  fiction  of  Sengupta 
and  his  school  was  so  strong  that  the  Government  was  moved 
(1933)  to  proscribe  two  of  his  novels  Vivaher  Ceye  Bado  and 
Pracir  O Prantar  and  a book  of  short  stories  by  Sri  Buddhadev 
Basu  ( Era  Ora  Evam  Aro  Aneke)  as  obscene.  The  later 
stories  are  generally  based  on  the  author’s  rich  experience  of 
men  and  manners,  as  a judicial  officer  of  the  Government 
posted  in  several  rural  and  urban  towns  in  the  province.  In 
the  latest  phase  of  his  literary  career  Sengupta  has  turned  his 
attention  to  embellish  devotional  literature.  His  book  on  the 
life  and  teachings  of  Ramakrishna  Paramhamsa  was  a best 
seller. 

Sri  Buddhadev  Basu  (b.  1908),  before  his  appearance  as 
an  author,  had  come  out  as  the  co-editor  of  a periodical 
published  from  Dacca  (where  he  had  his  education)  which 
championed  the  efforts  of  the  new  ‘progressive’  group  of  young 
writers.  This  was  Pragati  made  notorious  by  the  vociferous 
opposing  group.  The  periodical  ran  for  two  years  and  a few 
months.  Basu,  like  Sri  Premendra  Mitra,  was  equally  facile 
in  prose  and  verse,  although  from  the  beginning  his  verse  was 
more  mature  than  his  prose.  (This  was  due  to  a deliberate 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  369 

anglicism  in  his  prose  style.)  In  his  early  writings  Bash 
shows  his  allegiance  to  D.  H.  Lawrence.  His  first  book  of 
verse  Marmavani,  published  from  Dacca  (1925),  is  a com- 
pletely forgotten  work.  The  next  book  Bandlr  Vandand 
(Homage  of  the  Prisoner,  1930)  contains  eleven  poems  of 
gushing  passionate  love.  In  approach  as  well  as  in  execution 
Basu  in  these  poems  tried  to  break  away  from  tradition,  and 
he  tried  his  best  to  avoid  rhyme.  In  spite  of  his  best  efforts 
to  write  unlike  Tagore,  he  could  not  escape  Tagore.  Many 
of  his  books  (stories  and  novels)  have  lines  or  phrases  from 
Tagore  as  the  titles.  Some  of  the  poems  remind  the  reader 
constantly  of  Tagore’s  novel  Seser  Kavila.  Awkwardness 
and  adolescent  effusiveness  soon  departed,  however,  from 
Basu’s  poetry  to  which  maturity  was  not  denied  for  long. 
Very  good  poetry  is  to  be  found  in  his  later  books  of  verse, 
such  as  Prthivir  Pathe  (On  the  Road  of  the  Earth,  1933), 
Kankavati  (1937),  Damayanti  (1943),  Draupadir  Sadi 
(Draupadi’s  Sari,  1948),  etc. 

The  prose  works  of  Basu  include  novels,  short  stories 
and  literary  and  personal  essays,  all  showing  evidence  of 
meticulous  penmanship.  In  fiction  Basu  is  entirely  in- 
trospective ; his  heroes  are  always  enmeshed  in  their  own 
thoughts  and  conditioned  by  their  creator’s  personality. 
There  is  not  much  of  action  nor  is  there  much  variety.  This 
is  why  Basu’s  fiction  generally  seems  anaemic  in  spite  of 
the  excellence  of  his  narration.  His  first  novel  Sada 
(Response,  1930)  raised  a furore  in  the  opponents’  camp, 
although  there  was  nothing  in  it  at  which  even  a prudish 
reader  might  take  offence.  Among  his  other  novels  number- 
ing about  two  score  the  following  may  be  mentioned:' 
Akarmanya  (Worthless,  1931),  Amar  Bandhu  (My  Friend, 
1933),  Dhusar  Godhuli  (Fading  Evening,  1933),  Yedin 
Phutla  Kamal  (The  Day  the  Lotus  Opened,  1933),  Paraspar 
(Mutually,  1934),  Kalo  Haoya  (The  Black  Wind,  1942), 
Tithidor  (1949),  etc.  In  the  short  story  Basu’s  success  is 
indisputable.  The  introspective  mood  has  not  made  his 

24 


370  HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 

stories  slow  moving  but  has,  on  the  other  hand,  imparted 
a glow  to  them.  They  are  collected  in  several  books,  such 
us  Rekhacitra  (Pictures  in  Outline,  1931),  Abhinay  Abhinay 
Nay  (The  Play-acting  that  is  not  Play-acting,  1930),  Era  Ora 
Evan  Aro  Aneke  (These,  Those  and  Many  Others  Too, 
1932),  Mrs  Gupta  (1934),  Gharete  Bhramer  Elo  Gunguniye 
(A  Bee  Has  Come  Humming  into  the  Room.  1935),  Pheriola 
(The  Hawker,  1940),  etc. 

As  a protagonist  of  the  new  school  of  writers  Basu  has 
always  played  the  double  role  of  the  defender  and  the 
offending.  As  a nonchalant  leader  of  the  young  writers 
who  tried  to  ignore  tradition  in  literature  he  was  the  main 
target  of  attack  from  the  aggressive  champions  of  the  tradi- 
tionalist camp.  Basu  and  his  friends  did  not  retaliate  by 
being  merely  abusive.  They  continued  to  move  on  their 
chosen  path,  but  Basu  did  something  more.  First  as  the 
joint  editor  of  Pragati  and  then  the  founder-editor  of  Kavita 
(1935-  ),  a quarterly  devoted  to  the  new  poetry,  he  wrote 

essays  and  reviews  which  defended  the  new  poetry  with 
vigour  and  tenacity.  It  is  not  surprising  that  he  carried  the 
war  to  the  enemy’s  camp  ; the  validity  of  the  accepted  judge- 
ment on  the  works  of  some  of  the  old  masters  was  seriously 
challenged  by  him.  It  cannot  be  denied  that  the  acceptance 
of  an  idiosyncratic  poet  like  Jivanananda  Das  was,  to  a large 
extent,  due  to  the  persistence  of  Basu.  Such  and  other 
critical  essays  of  Basu  are  compiled  in  the  books:  Uttartiris 
(Above  Thirty,  1945),  Kaler  Putul  (Dolls  of  the  Current 
Time,  1946)  and  Sahityacarca  (Discussion  on  Literature, 
1954).  His  other  prose  works  include  four  volumes  on  travel 
and  reminiscence:  Hathat  Alor  Jhalkani  (A  Sudden  Splash 
of  Light,  1935),  Ami  Cancala  He  (O,  I Flutter,  1936), 
Samudratir  (The  Sea  Coast,  1937)  and  Sab  Peyechir  Des 
(The  All-found  Land).  Basu  also  writes  for  the  young. 

Sri  Ajit  Datta  (b.  1907),  the  co-editor  of  Pragati,  pub- 
lished his  first  book  of  verse  Kusumer  Mas  (The  Month  of 
Flowers)  in  1930,  the  year  of  publication  of  his  collaborator’s 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  371 


Bandar  Vandana.  Since  then  he  has  published  four  more 
volumes:  Patal  Kanya  (The  Girl  in  the  Nether  World,  1938), 
Nastacarhd  (The  Moon  Not  To  Be  Seen,  1945)  and  Punar- 
nava  (Young  Again,  1947).  Datta  has  not  written  much  in 
prose.  Janantike  (Aside,  1949)  is  a delightful  book  of  per- 
sonal essays.  So  is  Man  Pavaner  Nao  (The  Boat  Moved  by 
the  Breeze  of  the  Mind,  1950)  published  under  his 
pseudonym  ‘Raivat’. 

Datta  is  essentially  a poet.  His  poetry  has  that  mellow, 
soft  and  soothing  undertone  that  arises  from  subdued 
emotion.  The  diction  of  his  poems  is  as  smooth  and  simple 
as  it  can  be,  and  untwisted  and  unhurried.  There  is  no  effort 
to  take  the  reader  by  surprise. 

Jivanananda  Das  (1899-1954)  is  the  most  heterodox,  not  to 
say  eccentric,  among  the  poets  of  the  new  school  and  he  is 
no  doubt  the  most  original.  Das  was  brought  up  in  Barisal 
where  he  had  his  school  and  early  college  education,  and  he 
finished  his  University  education  in  Calcutta.  His  first 
efforts  in  versification  were  along  the  traditional  path  and  his 
early  poems  follow  the  pattern  of  Satyendranath  Datta  and 
Kazi  Nazrul  Islam.  These  his  early  poems,  published  in 
different  periodicals,  were  collected  in  a volume  entitled 
Jhara  Pabak  (A  Cast-off  Feather,  1928).  Some  time  before 
its  publication  he  had  been  making  experiments  in  the  new 
poetry.  After  the  publication  of  the  book  he  saw  that  his 
was  the  new  path  and  he  devoted  himself  to  it  with  single- 
mindedness.  His  poems,  often  violently  new  and  raw,  were 
ridiculed  and  caricatured  by  the  opposite  camp.  This  had 
a very  adverse  effect  on  the  sensitive  mind  of  the  poet  who 
was  temperamentally  introspective,  shy  and  solitary.  He  was 
a junior  lecturer  in  English  at  a Calcutta  college  when  the 
ill-natured  caricature  of  his  poetry  brought  him  into  the 
disfavour  of  the  college  authorities  and  he  lost  his  job.  He 
joined  a Delhi  college  for  a year  and  after  a long  spell  of 
unemployment  went  back  to  his  home  town  as  a college 


372 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


teacher  and  lived  there  until  1948  when  he  was  forced  by 
the  political  situation  to  leave  East  Pakistan  and  come  back 
to  Calcutta.  At  the  time  of  his  death  he  was  a lecturer  at 
a suburban  college. 

The  cause  of  Das’s  sudden  and  determined  change  over 
to  the  new  poetry  is  not  known.  But  it  can  be  safely  guessed 
that  it  was  induced  by  Ezra  Pound’s  and  T.  S.  Eliot’s  poetry 
which  was  just  then  becoming  the  vogue  in  the  English- 
speaking  world.  According  to  Eliot  and  the  Imagists  a 
creative  artist  should  not  seek  the  known  and  easy  way  for 
the  process  of  artistic  creation,  such  as  poetry  ; it  must  call 
for  a strenuous  act  of  imagination  on  the  part  of  the  writer 
as  well  as  of  the  reader  ; and  therefore  in  the  new  poetry 
the  language  is  bound  to  be  symbolic  and  the  expression 
cryptic.  They  also  hold  that  modern  poetry  is  concerned 
with  the  entire  field  of  human  knowledge,  historical  and 
scientific,  and  even  with  subconscious  and  illogical  cogitation. 
They  believe  that  a notation  of  snap  impressions  and  clipped 
images  can  invoke  the  intended  effect,  that  is,  imparting  the 
poet’s  feeling  and  mood  to  the  mind  of  the  reader,  more 
exactly  than  do  the  figures  of  speech,  rhyme  and  rhythm 
and  all  the  other  time-worn  devices  of  poets  who  are  now 
only  word-mongers.  Das  accepted  these  principles  and  wrote 
his  poems  accordingly.  Many  of  the  seventeen  poems  of  his 
first  significant  book  Dhusar  Pdndulipi  (The  Faded  Manu- 
script, 1936)  were  first  published  in  Pragati  (1927-30)  ; the 
rest  in  Kallol  and  other  periodicals.  His  other  books  of 
poetry  are:  Banalata  Sen  (1942,  enlarged  1952),  Mahaprthivi 
(The  Great  Earth,  1944)  and  Satti  Tarar  Timir  (Darkness 
from  the  Seven  Stars,  1948).  His  Srestha  Kavita  (The  Best 
Poems,  1954)  is  a selection  that  contains  also  some  poems  not 
included  in  the  other  volumes.  Das  latterly  attempted  to 
write  prose  also,  but  with  the  exception  of  one  or  two,  his 
literary  and  critical  essays  were  left  as  drafts  and  the  author 
did  not  get  time  to  give  them  a final  shape.  These  are  now 
published  in  book  form:  Kavitar  Kathd  (Discourse  on  Poetry, 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  373 


1956).  In  these  essays  Das  has  tried  to  defend  the  new 
Bengali  poetry.  Assessing  the  new  school  of  poets  vis-a-vis 
Tagore,  Das  opines: 

The  post-Tagore  period  started  from  the  publication  of 
Kallol.  . . . Here  there  is  no  single  Rabindranath  but 
there  are  some  poets  present  here  who  do  away  with  the 
necessity  of  a second  Rabindranath. 

The  following  quotation  (in  translation)  from  the  poem 
Hay  Cil  would  illustrate  the  poetry  of  Jivanananda  Das: 

Alas,  kite,  O kite  of  golden  wings,  in  this  mid-day  of 
wet  clouds,  don’t  you  cry,  flying  and  flying  over  by  the 
Dhansiri  river.  The  notes  of  your  cry  remind  me  of 
her  dull  eyes  like  berries  of  the  cane  ; like  the  fair 
princess  of  the  world  she  and  her  beauty  passed  out 
far  away  ; why  do  you  call  her  back  again?  Who,  alas, 
would  dig  into  his  heart  and  would  like  to  stir  up  pain! 
Alas,  kite,  O kite  of  golden  wings,  in  this  mid-day  of 
wet  clouds,  don’t  you  cry,  flying  over  by  the  Dhansiri 
river. 

Sri  Bishnu  De  (b.  1909)  also  is  a college  lecturer  in 
English,  and  he  too  made  his  debut  in  Pragati.  His  books 
of  verse  number  half  a dozen.  They  are:  Urvasi  O Artemis 
(1933),  Corabali  (Quicksand,  1937),  Purvalekh  (Early  Writing, 
1941),  Sandviper  Car  (Reclaimed  Land  in  Sandvip,  1947), 
Anvista  (The  Desired,  1950)  and  Nam  Rekhechi  Komal 
Gandhar  (I  have  named  her  Flat  Gandhar,  1953).  The  last 
title  is  taken  from  Tagore.  De  is  a painstaking  writer  and 
in  some  of  his  early  poems  he  deliberately  attempted,  after 
Eliot,  to  introduce  unfamiliar  and  learned  allusions  to 
classical  European  literature,  as  the  title  of  his  first  book  of 
poetry  indicates.  He  avoids  smoothness  and  makes  his  poetry 
uneven  and  gritty  by  injecting  unfamiliar  references  and 
lexical  words.  De  follows,  to  some  extent,  Eliot  in  making 
his  poetry  not  intelligible  to  the  man  of  average  education. 


374 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


He  writes  prose  also  but  sparingly,  and  he  has  produced  two 
books  of  essays:  Ruci  O Pragati  (Taste  and  Progress)  and 
Sahityer  Bhavisyal  (The  Future  of  Literature,  1952).  He  has 
translated  some  poems  of  Eliot. 

Pragati  was  discontinued  in  its  third  year  and  Kallol  was 
almost  dead  when  Paricay  (Acquaintance)  was  started  in  1931 
by  Sri  Sudhindranath  Datta  (b.  1901).  It  seemed  to  be 
a reappearance  of  Sabujpatra  in  the  new  set  up.  Paricay 
aimed  at  furtherance  of  the  new  tendencies  in  literature  by 
introducing  the  current  literary  thoughts  and  productions  of 
the  West  and  attempted  to  modify  the  truculent  attitude  of 
the  new  school  of  writers  towards  the  old.  Datta  had  pub- 
lished a book  of  verse  in  1929  or  thereabout  which  is  long 
out  of  circulation.  His  first  significant  poem  ‘Orchestra' 
appeared  in  Paricay  (1932).  Since  then  Datta  has  published 
four  books  of  poems:  Orchestra  (1935),  Krandasi  (1937), 
U ttaraphalguni  (1940)  and  Samvarta  (1953).  His  literary 
essays  are  included  in  the  volume  Svagata  (To  Oneself, 
1948).  Datta  would  not  liquidize  his  verse  by  following  the 
trodden  paths  of  smooth  poetry  ; he  would  often  use  such 
words  as  are  not  to  be  found  outside  Sanskrit  lexicons. 
Datta’s  poetry  is  difficult  but  not  in  the  same  way  as  De’s. 
Datta  is  equally  difficult  in  his  prose. 

Sri  Samar  Sen  (b.  1916),  the  youngest  writer  of  the  new 
school  of  poetry,  succeeded  in  catching  something  of  the 
dispassionate  and  somewhat  pessimistic  view  of  the  lower 
middle-class  life  of  the  city.  His  attitude  is  satirical,  and  his 
cynicism  a little  precocious.  Sen’s  poems  are  collected  in 
four  small  books:  Kayekti  Kavita  (A  Few  Poems,  1937), 
Grahan  (1940),  Nana  Katha  (1942),  and  Tinpurus  (Three 
Generations,  1944). 

Mr.  Humayun  Kabir  (b.  1904)  is  the  author  of  two  popu- 
lar books  of  poems:  Svapnasddh  (Dream  Desire,  1927)  and 
Sathi  (Companion,  1932).  Mr.  Kabir  has  made  his  name  as 
a scholar,  educator  and  administrator  but  has  kept  up  his 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  375 


touch  with  literature.  He  is  the  editor  of  the  quarterly 
Caturahga  (Four  Arts,  1939)  which  has  succeeded  in  keeping 
up  a high  standard  all  these  years. 

Sri  Annadashankar  Ray  (b.  1904)  was  educated  in  Orissa 
and  Bihar.  He  knows  Oriya  as  well  as  his  mother-tongue 
and  has  produced  some  verse  and  prose  in  the  language. 
Ray  writes  both  prose  and  poetry  but  prose  is  his  forte. 
His  books  of  verse  include:  Rakhi  (The  Wristband,  1929), 
Ekti  Vasanta  (One  Spring,  1932),  Kaler  Sasqn  (The  Rule  of 
Time,  1933)  and  Kamana  Pancavimsati  (Twenty-five  Desires, 
1934).  Udki  Dhaner  Mudki  (Sweetened  Parched  Rice  from 
Urki  Paddy,  1942)  is  a book  of  rhymes,  clerihews,  poems 
and  ballads.  Ray  has  written  several  books  of  essays, 
literary,  biographical  and  personal.  These  are:  Tarunya 
(Youth,  1928),  Amro.  (We,  1937),  Jlvansilpi  (The  Artist  of 
Life,  1941),  Isara  (A  Hint,  1943),  Binur  Bai  (Binu’s  Book, 
1944),  Jivankathi  (The  Wand  of  Life,  1949),  Pratyay  (Assur- 
ance, 1951),  etc.  Pat  he  Pravase  (On  the  Way  and  in 
Sojourn,  1931)  describes  the  author’s  travels  in  Europe  when 
he  was  there  undergoing  training  as  an  Indian  Civil  Servant. 
First  serialized  in  Vicitra,  it  made  a name  for  the  author  who 
was  till  then  quite  unknown.  Europer  Cithi  (Letters  from 
Europe,  1943)  is  a similar  work  written  for  the  young. 

Ray  has  written  short  stories  and  novels.  The  short 
stories  are  to  be  found  in  Prakrtir  Parihds  (Nature’s  Irony, 
1934),  Man  Pavan  (Mind  the  Breeze,  1946),  Jauvanjvala. 
(Torture  of  Youthfulness,  1950)  and  Kaminikdhcan  (Woman 
and  Wealth,  1954).  Six  of  his  novels  form  a hexad,  carrying 
the  story  through,  entitled  Satyasatya  (Truth  and  Untruth). 
It  comprises  Yar  Yetha  Des  (Where  One  Really  Belongs, 
1932),  Ajhatavas  (Living  Incognito,  1933),  Kalahkavati  (The 
Maligned  Woman,  1934),  Duhkhamocan  (Relief  from  Dis- 
tress, 1936),  Marter  Svarga  (Heaven  on  Earth,  1940)  and 
Apasaran  (Exeunt,  1942).  Other  novels  are  A gun  Niye 
Khela  (Playing  with  Fire,  1930),  Asamapika  (Non-finite, 


376  HISTORY  OK  BENGALI  LITERATURE 

1931),  Putul  Niye  Khela  (Playing  with  Dolls,  1933),  Na  (No, 
1951),  Kanya  (The  Girl,  1953),  etc. 

A group  of  fiction  writers  emerged  in  the  pages  of  Vahgasri 
(Beauty  of  Bengal)  under  the  editorship  of  Sri  Sajani  Kanta 
Das  (b.  1900).  Das  has  written  a few  good  poems,  some 
clever  parodies  in  verse  and  caricatures  and  humorous 
sketches  in  prose.  These  are  to  be  found  in  the  volumes 
Path  Calte  Ghasfir  Phul  (The  Weeds  Flower  as  One  Walks, 
1929),  Angustha  (The  Thumb,  1931),  Madhu  O Hul  (Honey 
and  Sting,  1931),  Kalikal  (The  Kali  Age,  1940),  etc.  He 
wrote  a novel,  A jay  (1931),  and  its  story  shows  that  for  the 
time  being  at  least  the  author  was  affiliated  to  the  progressive 
school  which  was  later  the  main  target  of  his  satire.  Das  has 
produced  also  some  volumes  of  verse  ; e.g.  Rdjhamsa  (The 
Swan,  1935),  Alo  Arhdhari  (The  Twilight,  1936),  Pamcise 
Baisakh  (The  Twenty-fifth  of  Baisakh,  1942),  etc. 

Sri  Sarojkumar  Raychaudhuri  (b.  1902)  and  Sri  Tara- 
shankar  Banerji  (b.  1898)  had  made  their  first  appearance  in 
Kallol.  But  their  continued  efforts  started  in  Vahgasri  (1933). 
Raychaudhuri  is  the  author  of  some  readable  books,  short 
stories  and  novels,  such  as  Bandhani  (The  Tie,  1931),  Srhkhal 
(The  Fetters,  1932),  Akas  O Mrttika  (The  Sky  and  the  Earth, 
1933),  Mayuraksi  (1936),  Hamsavalaka  (Flying  Swans,  1937), 
Somlata  (1938),  Kalo  Ghoda  (The  Black  Horse,  1946),  etc. 

Tarashankar  Banerji  is  a prolific  writer  of  short  stories 
and  novels.  With  the  solitary  exception  of  ‘Raikamal’ — later 
(1935)  enlarged  into  a novelette — the  best  of  his  early  stories 
were  published  in  Vahgasri  and  in  Pravasi.  These  stories  are 
collected  in  the  following  books:  Chalanamayi  (The  Deceiv- 
ing Woman,  1936),  Jalsaghar  (The  Club  Room,  1937),  Rasa- 
kali  (1938),  Prasadmala  (The  Garland  as  Gift,  1945),  etc. 
Banerji  has  produced  more  than  a score  of  novels  including 
the  following:  Caitali  Ghurni  (A  Summer  Whirlwind,  1929), 
Nilkantha  (1930),  Agun  (Fire,  1937),  Dhatri  Devata  (The 
Nursing  Deity,  1939),  Kalindi  (1940),  Kavi  (The  Village 


INDEPENDENCE  MO  YEMENI  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  377 


Rhymster,  1941),  Ganadevata  (God  the  People,  1942),  Panca- 
grdm  (The  Five  Villages,  1943),  Harhsuli  Bdmker  Upakatha 
(The  Legend  of  Harhsuli  Bend,  1947),  Arogya  Niketan 
(House  of  Convalescence,  1952),  Nagim  Kanyar  Kahinl  (The 
Story  of  the  Serpent  Girl,  1952),  etc.  Banerji  is  happiest  in 
his  regional  stories  and  novels.  He  knows  quite  well  the 
'men  and  the  nature  of  the  part  of  the  country  he  belongs  to 
(Birbhum  District  in  West  Bengal),  and  his  stories  are  always 
interesting.  Banerji  has  written  so  far  two  volumes  of  auto- 
biography and  reminiscences:  Amur  Kaler  Katha  (The 
Tales  of  My  Time,  1951)  and  Amar  Sahitya  Jlvan  (My 
Literary  Life,  1953). 

Sri  Balaicand  Mukherji  (b.  1899)  had  been  writing  verse 
long  before  he  took  a medical  graduate’s  degree,  and  from 
the  beginning  of  his  literary  ventures  he  has  been  using  the 
pseudonym  Banaphul,  that  is  ‘a  wild  flower’.  Mukherji 
belongs  to  Bhagalpur.  He  has  written  some  enjoyable 
humorous  poems  and  parodies  which  are  to  be  found  in  Bana- 
phuler  Kavita  (Poems  by  Banaphul,  1936).  His  other  books 
of  verse  are  Angaraparni  (1940),  Ahavariiya  (Holy  Fire,  1943), 
etc.  Some  of  his  short  stories  are  very  good,  especially  those 
that  are  drawn  from  his  own  experience  first  as  a medical 
student  and  then  as  a pathologist.  But  his  success  is  unique 
in  very  short  stories  (what  is  known  as  short-shorts  in  Ameri- 
can literary  slang).  His  books  of  short  stories  (and  very  short 
short  stories)  are:  Banaphuler  Galpa  (Stories  by  Banaphul, 
1936),  Baitaranltire  (On  the  Bank  of  the  Styx,  1937),  Bahulya 
(Redundant,  1943),  Adrsyaloke  (In  the  Unseen  World),  etc. 
Mukherji’s  technical  education  has  given  a distinction  to  the 
themes  and  treatment  of  his  novels.  He  is  interested  in 
human  behaviour  not  simply  as  an  artist  but  also  as  a man  of 
science.  His  characteristic  novels  are  Trnnkhanda  (A  Bit  of 
Straw,  1935),  Kichuksan  (Some  Moments,  1937),  Dvairath 
(A  Duel,  1937),  Nirmok  (The  Slough,  1940),  Jangam  (On  the 
Move,  vol.  i 1943)  in  three  volumes,  Sthavar  (The  Fixed, 
1951),  Dana  (Wing,  1948),  Pancaparva  (Five  Stages,  1954), 


378 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


etc.  Mukherji  has  written  some  good  biographical  plays.  His 
Srimadhusudan  (1939)  and  Vidyasagar  (1941)  have  started 
the  vogue  of  such  plays  in  Bengali. 

Manik  Banerji  (1908-1956)  made  his  first  appearance 
in  Vangasri  with  his  Divdrdtrir  Kavya  (A  Poem  of  the  Day 
and  the  Night)  published  as  a book  in  1935  and  followed  by 
Putul  Nacer  Itikathd  (The  Chronicles  of  a Puppet  Dance/ 
1936).  These  two  novels  attracted  attention  and  the  author 
was  greeted  as  an  original  writer  who  has  his  own  angle  of 
vision  and  direction  of  approach.  His  short  and  long  stories- 
which  appeared  subsequently  show  him  to  be  a keen  observer 
of  the  inner  and  outer  life  of  the  common  man  in  rural 
setting.  But  in  his  later  stories  and  novels  the  psychologist 
and  the  propagandist  in  him  have  often  come  out  to  the  detri- 
ment of  literature.  The  best  known  novels  and  books  of  short 
stories  by  Banerji,  besides  those  already  mentioned,  are  the 
following:  Janani  (Mother,  1935),  Atasi  Mami  (Aunt  Atasi, 

1935) ,  Padmanadir  Majhi  (The  Boatman  of  the  River  Padma, 

1936) ,  Pragaitihasik  (Pre-historical,  1937),  Mihi  O Motd 
Kahini  (Stories  Thin  and  Thick,  1938),  Sahartali  (The 
Suburb  ; two  vols.,  1940-41),  Haludpoda  (Burnt  Turmeric, 
1945),  Catuskon  (Four-square,  1948),  Sonar  Ceye  Dami 
(More  Precious  than  Gold ; two  vols.,  1951-52),  Haraph 
(Type,  1954),  Halud  Nadi  Sabuj  Ban  (The  Yellow  River 
and  the  Green  Forest,  1956),  etc. 

Sri  Pramathanath  Bisi  (b.  1901)  had  his  school  and 
college  education  at  Santiniketan  and  he  is  the  only  writer 
among  us  who  had  the  best  opportunities  of  imbibing  the 
spirit  and  atmosphere  of  Tagore  in  its  nidus.  Bisi’s  first  good 
poems  are  some  sonnets  (a  few  of  which  were  first  published 
in  Vangasri)  incorporated  in  three  small  volumes:  Pracin 
Asami  Haite  (From  Old  Assamese,  1934),  Vidyasundar  (1934) 
and  Pracin  Gitika  Haite  (From  Old  Ballads,  1937),  now  all 
out  of  circulation.  Bisi’s  later  poems,  showing  a rare  sensi- 
bility and  warmth,  are  to  be  found  in  Akuntala  (1946), 


INDEPENDENCE  MOVEMENT  TO  ANOTHER  WORLD  WAR  379 


Juktavem  (The  United  Streams,  1948),  Uttar  Megh  (The 
Upper  Cloud,  1953),  etc.  Bisi  has  written  some  long  stories 
and  novels,  such  as  Padma  (1935),  Jodddhighir  Caudhuri- 
parivdr  (The  Caudhuri  Family  of  JodadTghT,  1937?),  Calanbil 
(1949),  etc.  He  is  more  prolific  in  short  stories  written 
generally  in  a light  vein.  The  more  important  of  his  books 
of  short  stories  are  Srikanter  Pancam  Parva  (The  Fifth  Series 
of  Srikanta,  1939),  Asariri  (Unbodied),  Galper  Mata  (Like 
Stories,  1945),  Dakini  (The  Witch,  1945),  Brahmar  Hasi 
(Brahma’s  Laugh,  1948),  etc.  Bisi  is  no  less  well  known  for 
his  comic  plays  such  as  Rnam  Krtva  (By  Borrowing,  1935), 
Ghrtam  Pibet  (Should  Eat  Ghee,  1936),  Maucake  Dhil  (A 
Stone  Thrown  into  a Honeycomb,  1948)  and  Parihasavijal- 
pitam  (Spoken  in  Jest),  etc.  which  are  popular  on  the 
amateur  stage. 

Bisi  is  a popular  writer  of  prose  and  his  style  is  distin- 
guished by  flashes  of  wit  and  humour,  occasionally  reminding 
the  reader  of  Pramatha  Chaudhuri.  He  has  produced 
several  volumes  of  critical  studies  in  Tagore.  One  of  his 
best  books  is  Ravindranath  O Santiniketan  (1944)  based  on 
the  reminiscences  of  his  student  life. 

Sri  Amiya  Chakravarti  (b.  1901)  had  lived  for  a long 
time  at  Santiniketan,  and  as  Tagore’s  secretary  had  been  in 
close  contact  with  the  master.  Unlike  his  contemporaries, 
Chakravarti  has  written  poems  only  and  he  has  seven  books 
to  his  credit:  Khasda  (First  Draft,  1938),  Ekmutho  (Just  a 
Handful,  1939),  Parapdr  (Over  and  Back,  1953),  Palabadal 
(Change  of  Duty,  1955),  etc.  Chakravarti’s  poetry  is  his 
own,  and  it  occasionally  reveals  a strange  affinity  with 
Tagore’s  poetry.  The  following  quotation  (in  translation) 
from  the  poem  Eroplene  (In  an  Aeroplane)  is  an  illustration: 

A moment  of  life  is  a great  treasure  ; in  the  midst  of 
the  vast  and  vacant  time  it  is  a speck  of  illusion  at  the 
shadeless,  steely  horizon.  In  layer  after  layer  colour 
spreads  from  end  to  end  of  the  moment — I call  it  the 


380 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


exclusive  time  of  being  alive  ; below  it  are  trees  and 
streams — dear  ones  move  at  the  moment ; — in  shops,  in 
colleges,  in  trains  what  life  at  that  moment  implies  I 
know  nothing  of  ; — only  at  that  moment  I feel  alive  in 
Thy  universe. 

The  short  compass  of  this  history  does  not  allow  for  the 
inclusion  of  writers  who  have  made  their  mark  after  1941, 
the  year  that  marks  Tagore’s  death  as  well  as  approach  of 
the  second  World  War.  It  has  also  not  been  possible  to  take 
into  account  many  writers  who  have  produced  good  and 
popular  works  but  did  not  chalk  out  any  new  path  or  create 
any  new  form.  The  essence  of  literature,  as  of  beauty,  lies 
in  its  perpetual  freshness  or  lavanya  (literally,  ‘salinity’)  as  it 
is  called  in  our  ancient  language. 


APPENDIX 

Text  of  the  Passages  Quoted  in  Translation 

Page  12 

Dhaniyo:  pakkodano  duddhakhlro  ham  asmi 

anutlre  mahiya  samanavaso 
channa  kuti  ahito  gTni 
atha  ce  patthayasl  pavassa  deva. 

Bhagava:  akkodhano  vlgatakhilo  ham  asmi 

anutlre  mahiy’  ekaratti  vaso 
vivata  kuti  nibbuto  gini 
atha  ce  patthayasl  pavassa  deva. 

Suttanipdta  (‘Dhaniya-sutta’  1-2). 

Page  13 

sutanuka  nama  devadasikyi 
tam  kamayitha  balana  seye 
devadine  nama  lupadakhe. 

Jogimara  Cave  Inscription  ( Archaelogical  Survey 
of  India  Annual  Report,  1903-04). 

Page  14 

diaha  janti  jhadappadahim  padahim  manoraha  pacchi 
jam  acchasi  tam  maniai  hosai  kara  tu  ma  acchi. 

jai  kemva-i  pavisu  piu  akia  kudda  karisu 
panium  navi  saravi  jimva  savvangem  paislsu. 

Siddha-hema-sabdanusasana  (Adhvaya  viii). 
so  mahu  kanta 
dura  diganta 
pausa  ave 
ceu  calave. 

navi  manjari  lijjia  cuai  gacche 
pariphullia  kesu-laa  vana  ache. 


382  HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 

jai  itthi  digantara  jaiha  kanta 

kimu  bammaha  natthi  ki  natthi  vasanta. 

Prakrta-paihgala. 

Page  17 

yadi  Hari-smarane  sarasam  mano 
yadi  vilasakalasu  kutuhalam 
madhura-komala-kanta-padavallm 
srnu  tada  Jayadeva-sarasvatlm. 

Gitogovinda  (Canto  i). 

Page  32 

cia  sahaje  stina  sampunna 
kandha-viyoe  ma  hohi  visanna 
bhana  kaise  kahnu  nahi 
pharai  anudinam  tailoe  pamai 
mudha  ditha  natha  dekhi  kaara 
bhaiiga-taranga  ki  sosai  saara 
mudha  acchante  loa  na  pekhai 
dudha  majhem  lara  cchantem  na  dekhai 
bhava  jai  na  avai  esu  koi 
aisa  bhave  vilasai  Kahnila  joi. 

Caryagiti-padavalT  (42). 

Page  33 

tini  bhuana  mai  bahia  helem 
haum  suteli  mahasuha-lldem 
kaisani  halo  DombI  tohori  bhabhariall 
ante  kulina-jana  majhem  kavall 
taim  lo  DombI  saala  bitaliu 
kaja  na  karana  sasahara  taliu 
keho  keho  tohore  birua  bolai 
bidujana  loa  toremkantha  na  melal 
Kahne  gaiu  kamacandali 
Dombita  agali  nahi  cchinall. 


Ibid.  (18). 


APPENDIX 


383 


talata  mora  ghara  nahi  padavesl 
hadlta  bhata  namhi  niti  avesT 
bege  samsara  bahila  jaa 
duhila  dudhu  ki  bente  samaya 
balada  biaela  gavia  bamjhe 
pita  duhie  e tina  samjhe 
jo  so  budhl  soi  nibudhl 
jo  so  caura  soi  dusadhl 
nite  nite  siala  sihem  sama  jujhaa 
Dhendana-paera  glta  virale  bujhai 

Ibid.  (33). 

Page  34 

bhava  na  hoi  abhava  na  jai 
aisa  sambohe  ko  patiai 
Lui  bhanai  bata  dulakkha  binana 
tia-dhae  bilasai  uha  na  jana 
jahera  bana-cihna  ruva  na  jam 
so  kaise  agama  bee  bakhanl 
kahere  kisa  bhani  mai  dibi  piriccha 
udaka-canda  jima  saca  na  miccha 
Lui  bhanai  (mai)  bhaiba  kTsa 
ja  lai  acchama  tahera  uha  na  dlsa. 

Ibid.  (29). 

uttha  bhadaro  karuna  manu 
pukkhasi  mahu  parinau 
mahasuha-joe  kama-mahu 
icchahi  sunna-sahau 
tomha-bihunne  marami  haum 
utthahi  tuhum  Hevajja 
chaddahi  sunna-sahavata 
Savaria  sijjhau  kajja 
loa  nimantia  suraa-pahu 
sunna  acchasi  kisa 
haum  Candall  binna  nami 
tai  binu  uhami  na  dlsa 
indlalT  tuttha  tuhum 

haum  janami  tuhum  citta 


384 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


amhe  DombT  ccheamanu 

ma  kara  karuna  vicchitta. 

Hevajratantra  (quoted  in  Dohakosa 
ed.  P.  C.  Bagchi). 


Page  35 

siddhiratthu  mai  padhame  padhiau 
manda  pivantem  visaria  emaiu 
akkharamekka  ettha  mai  janiu 
tahara  nama  na  janami  e sahiu. 

Saraha's  Dohakosa. 

kandha-bhuta-aattana-indl- 
visaa-viaru  apahua 
nau  nau  dohacchande 

kahavi  na  kimpi  goppa. 

pandia-loa  khamahu  mahu 
etthu  na  kiai  viappu 
jo  guruvaanem  mai  suau 

tahi  kim  kahami  sugoppu. 
kamala-kulisa  bevi  majjhathiu 
jo  so  suraa-vilasa 
ko  ta  ramai  natia  tihuane  hi 
kassa  na  purai  asa. 

Ibid. 

Page  43 

kahanti  guru  paramarthera  bata 
karma  kuranga  samadhi  kapata 
kamala  vikasila  kahiha  na  jamara 
kamala-madhu  pivivi  dhoke  na  bhamara. 

Caryagiti-padavali  (*  2). 

Page  46 

pokharlta  pan!  nai  para  kena  bure 
basa-ghare  dimba  nai  chao  kena  ure 
nagare  manusya  nai  ghara  cale  cala 


APPENDIX 


385 


andhale  dokan  dia  kharid  kare  kala 
jhima  jau  barisa  atale  jau  mlna 
jhampia  tarite  pari  samudra  gahlna. 

Goraksavijaya  (by  Faizullah  and  others). 


Page  58 

Kaiiurera  Kama-candl  Kamatay  aise 
bala  dekhi  narlra  dhatu  kotha  baise. 

Ruparam’s  Dharmamahgal. 
pasu  nay  paksi  nay  dimba  madhye  cha 
nimese  nlrghata  mare  nahi  hata-pa 
sakala  dekhaye  puni  keha  na  dekhiye 
parama  ratana  sei  yatnete  rakhiye 
upare  sindura-raga  adhe  ta  kajala 
sadai  cancala  loha  kare  dhaladhala 
Kanurera  Kamacandl  Kamatay  aise 
astahga  thakite  dhatu  vama-cakse  baise.  , 

Ibid. 


Page  74 

tirlra  sabhava  mana  kare 
tata  rosa  na  kare  nagare 
e tomhara  vacane 
saba  kopa  khandila  ekhane. 
ehi  jage  tomhara  carane 
amha  same  na  kariha  ane. 
tomhara  amhara  dul  mane 
eka  karl  ganthila  madane 
tara  anurupa  Vrndavane 
tora  bola  na  kariba  ane. 
vidhi  kaila  tora  mora  mehe 
ekai  parana  eka  dehe 
se  neha  tiaja  nahi  sahe 
se  puni  amhara  dosa  nahe. 
ke  bulite  pare  tora  gune 
eke  eke  base  mora  mane 
ebe  asi  baisa  mora  pase 
gaila  Baru  Candidase. 

Sfikrsnakirttan  (‘Vrndavana-khanda’). 


25 


386 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  76 

torahe  jabe  yogi  haila  sakala  tejina 
thakiba  yogini  hana  tohaka  sebina. 

Ibid.  (‘Radhaviraha’). 

Page  78 

Basuli-adese  Nitya  calila 

sahaj  janabar  tare. 

Page  79 

sukla  dasaml  tithi  vaisakha  mase 
siyare  basiya  Padma  kaila  upade^e. 
pacall  racite  Padma  karila  ade^a 
sei  se  bharasa  ara  na  jam  visesa 
kavi  guru  dhlrajane  kari  parihara 
racila  Padmara  glta  sastra-anusara 
sindhu  indu  veda  mahl  saka  parimana 
nrpati  Husen-saha  Gaurera  pradhana. 

Manasavijay  (by  Vipradas). 

Page  81 

pandite  mandita  sabha  Khan  mahamati 
eka  dina  basi  ache  bandhava-samhati 
sunila  Bharata  potha  ati  punyakatha 
mahamuni  Jaiminira  purana-samhita 
asvamedha-katha  £uni  prasannahrday 
sabhakhande  ade^ila  Khan  mahasay 
vyasa  glta  bharata  sunila  carutara 
tahata  kahila  Jaimini  munivara 
samskrta  Bharata  na  bujhe  sarvajana 
mora  nivedana  kichu  suna  kavigana 
desi  bhase  ehi  katha  kariya  pracara 
sancarau  klrtti  mora  jagata  bhitara 
tahana  ade^a-malya  mathe  aropiya 
Ankara  NandTe  kahe  pancalT  raciya. 

Mahabharat  (by  Ankara  Nandi). 


APPENDIX 


387 


Page  83-84 

ayi  dlna-dayardranatha  he 
Mathura-natha  kadavalokyase 
hrdayam  tvadaloka-kataram 
dayita  bhramyati  kim  karomy  aham. 

Padyavall. 


Page  89 

Sri-Caitanya  Narayana  karunasagara 
duhkhitera  bandhu  prabhu  more  daya  kara. 

Caitanyabhagavata. 


Page  88-89 

ceto-darpana-marjanam  bhava-mahadavagni- 

nirvapanam 

sreyah-kairava-candrika-vitaranam  vidya-vadhu- 

jlvanam 

anandambudhi-vardhanam  pratipadam 

purnamrtasvadanam 

sarvatma-snapanam  param  vijayate  sri-krsna- 

sanklrttanam.  1 

namnam  akari  bahuta  nija-sarva-^aktis 
tatrarpita  niyamitah  smarane  na  kalah 
etadrsl  tava  krpa  bhagavan  mamapi 
durdaivam  Idrsam  ihajani  nanuragah.  2 

trnad  api  sunlcena  taror  iva  sahisnuna 
amanina  manadena  kirttanlyah  sada  harih.  3 

na  dhanam  na  janam  na  sundarlm 
kavitam  va  jagadlsa  kamaye 
mama  janmani  janmanlsvare 

bhavatad  bhaktir  ahaitukl  tvayi.  4 

ayi  nanda-tanuja  kihkaram  mam 
patitam  visame  bhavambudhau 
krpaya  tava  pada-pankaja- 

sthitam  dhuli-sadrsam  vicintaya.  5 

nayanam  galad-asru-dharaya 

vadanam  gadgada-ruddhaya  gira 
pulakair  nicitam  vapuh  kada 

tava  nama-grahane  bhavisyati. 


6 


388 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


yugayitam  nimesena  caksusa  pravrsayitam 
sunyayitam  jagat  sarvam  Govinda-virahena  me. 
aslisya  va  padaratam  pinastu  mam 
adarsanan  marmahatam  karotu  va 


Page  99 


yatha  tatha 

va  vidadhatu 

lampato 

mat-prananathas  tu  sa  eva 

naparah.  ! 

Vraja-pure 

rup-sagare 

raser  nadl  bay 

tlr  bahiya 

dheu  asiya 

lagila  Gora-gay 

gaur-arige 

prem-tarange 

uthiche  divarati 

jnan-karma 

yog-dharma 

tap  charila  yati 

mane  mane 

kata  jane 

dicche  ruper  day 

se  ye  rup 

sudha-kup 

thor  nahika  pay 

rup-bhavana 

galay  sona 

ghucibe  maner  dhandha 

ruper  dhara 

baul  para 

bahiche  jagat-andha 

rup-rase 

jagat  bhase 

e caudda  bhuvane 

khaile  yaje 

dekhile  maje 

kahile  keba  jane 

visam  seva 

laiya  yeba 

apana  mare  ye 

Locan  bale 

avahele 

Gaur  pabe  se. 

Vivarttavilas. 


Page  105 

sakhi  he  phiriya  apana  ghare  yao 
jlyante  mariya  ye  apana  khaiyache 

tare  tumi  ki  ara  bujhao 
nayana-putall  kari  lailo  mohana  rupa 

hiyara  majhare  kari  prana 
pirlti-aguni  jvali  sakali  poraivachi 

jati-kula-slla-abhimana 

na  janiya  murha  loke  ki  jani  ki  bale  moke 
na  kariye  sravana-gocare 
srota-bithara  jale  e tanu  bhasaiyachi 

ki  karibe  kulera  kukure 
khaite  suite  raite  ana  nahi  lay  cite 

bandhu  bine  ana  nahi  bhay 
Murari  Gupate  kahe  pirlti  emati  haile 

tara  yasa  tina  loke  gay. 

Padakalpataru. 


APPENDIX 


389 


Page  105-106 

ki  chara  pirlti  kaila  jiyante  badhiya  aila 

bamcite  samsaya  bhela  Rai 
saphari  salila  bina  goiiaiba  kata  dina 

suna  suna  nithura  Madhai 
ghrta  diya  eka  rati  j vali  aila  yuga-bati 

se  kemane  rahe  a-yogane 
tahe  se  pavane  puna  nibaila  bas5  bena 
jhata  asi  rakhaha  parane 
bujhilama  uddese  saksate  pirlti  tose 

sthana-chara  bandhu  vairl  hay 
tara  saksT  padma-bhanu  jala  chara  tara  tanu 
sukhaile  pirlti  na  ray 

yata  sukhe  barhaila  tata  duhkhe  poraila 

karila  kumuda-bandhu  bhati 
Gupta  kahe  ekamase  dvi-paksa  charila  de^e 
nidane  haila  kuhu  rati. 

Ibid. 


Page  106-107 

ahe  nava  jaladhara  barisa  harisa  bara  mane 

syamera  milana  mora  sane 
barisa  manda  jhimani 
aju  ham  banciba  rajani 
gagane  saghane  garajana 
daduri  dundubhi  bajana 
sikhare  sikhandim-rola 
banciba  suranatha  kola 
dohara  pirlti-rasa-ase 
dubala  Vasudeva  Ghose. 

Rasakalika  (of  Natavaradas). 


Page  107-1  OS 

kisora  vayasa  kata  baidagadhi  thama 
murati-marakata  abhinava  kama 
prati  anga  kona  vidhi  niramila  kise 
dekhite  dekhite  kata  nmiva  barise 


390 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


malu  malu  kiba  rupa  dekhilu  svapane 
khaite  suite  mora  lagiyache  mane 
aruna  adhara  mrdu  manda  manda  hase 
cancala  nayana-kone  jalikula  nase 
dekhiya  bidare  buka  duti  bhuru-bhangi 
ai  ai  kotha  chila  se  nagara  rang! 
manthara  calana  khani  adha-adlia  yay 
parana  kemana  kare  ki  kahlba  kay 
pasana  milaye  yay  gayera  batase 
Balaramadase  kay  avasa  parase 

Padakalpataru. 


Page  108 

alo  muni  kena  gelu  kalindTra  jale 
cita  hari  kaliya  nagara  nila  chale 
rupera  pathare  akhi  dubiya  rahila 
yauvanera  vane  mana  haraiya  gela 
ghare  yaite  patha  mora  haila  aphurana 
antare  bidare  hiya  phukare  parana 
candana-candera  majhe  mrgamada-dhandha 
tara  majhe  hiyara  putalT  raila  bandha 
kati  pita  vasana  rasana  tahe  jara 
vidhi  niranila  kula-kalankera  kora 
jati  kula  sila  saba  hena  bujhi  gela 
bhuvana  bhariya  mora  ghosana  rahila 
kulavatl  satl  haiya  du-kule  dilu  dukha 
Tnanadasa  kahe  drdha  kari  bandha  buka. 

Ibid. 


Page  110 


kahare  kahiba 
hiyara  majhare 
gurujana-age 
pulake  akula 
sakhl  sange  yadi 
yamunara  jala 
kulera  dharama 
Ramacandra  kahe 


manera  katha  kaba  yay  paratlta 
marama-vedana  sadai  camake  cita 
basite  na  pai  sada  chala-chala  akhi 

diga  neharite  saba  ^yamamaya  dekhi. 

jalere  yai  se  katha  kahila  nay 

mukuta  kavari  ithe  ki  parana  ray 
rakhite  narinu  kahila  sabara  age 
Syamanagara  sadai  marame  jage. 


History  of  Brajabuli  Literature. 


APPENDIX 


391 


Page  111 

mandira  vahira  kathina  kapata 
calaite  sankila  pahkila  bata 
tahi  ati  duratara  badala  dola 
vari  ki  barai  nlla  nicola 
sundari  kaiche  karabi  abhisara 
Hari  raha  Manasa-suradhum  para 
ghana-ghana  jhanajhana  bajara-nipata 
sunaite  sravana-marama  jari  yata 
dasadisa  daminl-dahana  bithara 
heraite  ucakai  locana-tara 
ithe  yadi  sundari  tejabi  geha 
premaka  lagi  upekhabi  deha 
Govindadasa  kaha  ithe  ki  vicara 
chutala  bana  kiye  yatane  nivara. 


Padakalpataru. 


Page  112 

sakhi  he  ki  puchasi  anubhava  moy 
soi  pirlti  anuraga  bakhaniye 

anukhana  nutana  hoy 
janama  avadhi  haite  o rupa  neharalu 
navana  na  tirapita  bhela 
lakha  lakha  yuga  hiye  hive  mukhe  mukhe 
hrdaya  judana  nahi  gela 
vacana-amiya  rasa  anukhana  sunalu 
srutipathe  parasa  na  bheli 
kata  madhu-yaminT  rabhase  gonayalu 
na  bujhalu  kaichena  keli 
kata  bidagadha-jana  rasa  anumodai 
anubhava  kahu  na  pekhi 
kaha  Kavivallabha  hrdaya  juraite 
mllaye  koti-me  eki. 


Ibid. 


392 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  113 

amara  sundara  nay  ye  asiya  dei  pay 
hasiya  ganaye  sola  pana 
e tora  nitamba  kuca  ati  gurutara  uca 
ekalae  bhara  dasa  jana 
goyalini  bujhila  tumi  bara  dhata 
dana  phuraiya  capa  jhata 
lakhera  pasara  tora  naye  para  habe  niora 
ihate  paiba  ami  kl 

bujhiya  apane  bala  pache  yena  nahe  kala 
ei  jlvikay  ami  ji 

tumi  to  yuvatl  maiya  ami-ha  yuvaka  naiva 
hasa-parihase  gela  dina 

o-kfile  manusa  dake  kheya  rahe  micha  pake 

eta-ksane  haita  bhara  tina 
kslra  navanlta  dai  aguana  kichu  khai 
nauka  bahite  hau  bala 
dvija  Madhav  kahe  rasika  Yadav-raye 

michai  karave  vak-chala. 

Krsnamahgal . 


Page  117 

jaya  Naranarayan  nrpati  pradhana 
yahara  samana  raja  nahika  ye  ana 
dharma  nlti  purana  Bharata  sastra  yata 
ahoratri  bicaranta  basiya  sabhata 
Gaude  Kamarupe  yata  pandita  achila 
sabaka  aniya  satra-deoyan  patila 
kavi  sabe  sastra  bakhananta  sada  tata 
amaka  niyaya  thaiya-achanta  sabhata. 

Mahabharat  (Vana-parva). 

Sukladhvaja  anuja  yahara  yuvaraja 
parama  gahana  ati  adbhuta  kaja 
tehe  moka  bulilanta  mahaharsa  mane 
Bharata-pavara  tumi  kariyo  yatane 


9 


APPENDIX 


393 


amara  gharata  ache  Bharata  prasasta 
niyoka  apana  grhe  diloho  samasta 
eha  buli  raja  pache  baladhi  yorai 
pathaila  pustaka  amasaka  thai 
khaibara  sakala  dravya  dilanta  apara 
dasa  dasl  dila  nama  karaila  amara. 
eteke  tahana  ajna  dhariya  sirata 
Krsnera  yugala-pada  dhari  hrdayata 
biracilo  pada  ito  ati  anupama 
parama  sundara  Vana-parva  yara  nama. 

Ibid. 


Page  124-125 

dhanya  raja  Mana-simha  Visnu-pade  lola  bhrnga 
Gauda  Vanga  Utkala  samlpe 
adharmi  rajar  kale  prajar  paper  phale 
khilat  pay  Mamud  sariphe 
ujlr  hoila  raya-jada  bepari-ksatriya  kheda 

Brahmana-Vaisnave  haila  airi 
mape  kone  diya  dara  panara  kathay  kura 

nahi  sune  prajar  gohari 
sarkhel  haila  kal  khil  bhumi  likhe  nal 

bini  upakare  lay  dhuti 

potdar  haila  yam  taka  arhai  ana  kam 

pai  labhya  lay  din  prati 

mithya  e jagati  bhanda  para  dravye  kare  danda 
daka  dei  divasa  dupare 

visam  rajyer  loka  para  dravya  khaite  jok 

dekhite  dekhite  vitta  hare 
dihidar  abudli  khoj  kari  dile  nahi  roj 

dhanya  goru  keha  nahi  kine 
prabhu  Goplnath  Nandi  vipake  haila  bandl 
hetu  kichu  nahi  paritrane 
jandar  prati  nache  praja  palay  pache 

duar  chapiya  dei  thana 

praja  dhanye  vikalita  bece  ghar  kura  nitya 

takaker  dravya  da$  ana. 


Candimahgal. 


394 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  127-128 

kande  simha  pasu  asi  smariya  Abhaya 
aparadh  vina  mata  dur  kaile  daya 
bhale  tlka  diva  mata  kari  mrgaraj 
kariba  tomar  seba  rajye  nahi  kaj 
praner  dosar  bhai  gela  paralok.  . . . 
ui  cara  khai  pasu  jatite  bhaluk 
neugT  caudhurl  nahi  na  kari  taluk 
sat  putra  vlr  maila  bandhi  jala-pase 
savamse  majilu  mata  tomar  habyase.  . . . 
magu  maila  putra  maila  dui  nati  pose 
dhvday  dhusar  haiya  kandaye  hastinT 
micha  var  diya  mata  vadh  kaile  keni 
syamal  sundar  putra  kamalalocan 
bhuru  kama-dhanu  rup  madana-ganjan 
kanan  karaye  alo  kapaler  cande  . . . 
bara  nam  bara  gram  bara  kalevar 
lukaite  nahi  thai  vlrer  gocar 
ki  kariba  kotha  yaba  kotha  gele  tari 
apanar  danta  duta  apanar  vairl. 
hekaci  kariya  kande  sajaru  sa^aru 
duhkha  na  ghucila  mora  sevi  kalpataru 
garher  bhitar  thaki  luki  bhale  jani 
ki  kari  upay  vlr  garhe  dhale  panl 
cari  putra  maila  mor  ar  duti  jhl 
magu  maila  burha  kale  jlya  kaj  ki. 

Ibid. 


Page  128-129 

barai  danismanda  kahare  na  kare  chanda 

pran  gele  roja  nahi  chari 

dharaye  Kamboja-ves  mathe  nahi  rakhe  kes 

buk  acchadiya  rakhe  dari 

na  chare  apan  pathe  das  rekha  tupi  mathe 

ijar  paraye  drdha  dari 

yar  dekhe  khali  matha  ta  sane  na  kahe  katha 

sariya  celar  mare  bari. 


Ibid. 


APPENDIX 


395 


Page  129-130 

are  bacha  ay  bacha  ay 
ki  lagiya  kande  bacha  ki  dhan  cay 
aniba  tuliya  gagana-phula 
ekeka  phulera  lakseka  mula 
se  phula  ganthiya  paraba  hara 
sona  bacha  mora  na  kanda  ara 
gagana  mandale  patiba  phanda 
bandhiya  diba  tore  Sarada-canda 
kapale  diva  tore  se  canda  phota 
kali  garaiya  diba  sonara  bhata 
khaoyaba  ksira-khanda  makhaba  cuya 
karpura  paka  pana  sarasa  guya 
ratha  gaja  ghora  yautuka  diya 
rajara  dui  kanya  karaba  biya 
^rlmanta  capibe  sonara  nay 
kasturl  kunkuma  candana  gay 
khate  nidra  yabe  camara  bay 
Ambika-mangala  Mukunda  gay. 

Ibid. 


Page  137 

gota  dui  aksar  parate  yay  din 
parabar  vela  hoi  ehar  adhln 
bi^a-say  paruya  thake  mor  mukh  caiya 
dui  prahar  vela  yav  ehar  lagiya 
gota  cari  aksar  ananta  varna  kay 
sadai  pather  vela  janjal  lagay 
parate  narila  tore  yaha  nija  ghar 
nahe  Navadvlp  yaha  kiba  Santipur 
nahe  Jaugram  cala  Kanader  thani 
tar  sama  bhattacarya  Santipure  nani. 

Dharmamahgal. 

balite  balite  vakya  pavaker  kana 
vitanka  mukher  soblia  basanter  cina 
eman  vacan  ^uni  mane  lage  dar 
suryer  sarnan  guru  param  sundar 
alanghya  gurur  vakya  lahge  kon  jan. 


Ibid. 


396 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  138 

eke  Sanivar  tay  thik  dupar  vela 
sammukhe  dandaila  dharma  gale  candramala 
galay  capar  mala  asabari  hathe 
bralunaner  rupe  dharma  dandaila  pathe. 

Ibid. 


Page  138-139 

barite  basite  bhai  baila  kuvacan 
janani  sahita  nani  haila  darasan 
dada  bara  nidarun  bale  uccasvare 
kali  giyacha  path  parite  aji  aila  ghare 
kacharila  Jumar  Amar  abhidhan 
vahire  suvanta-tlka  garagari  yan 
punarvar  marame  bandhila  khurigi  puthl 
Navadvlpe  paribare  yaba  divarati 
Sona  Hira  duti  bani  achila  duare 
jananlke  barata  balite  nani  pare. 

Ibid. 


Page  139 

cira  bhaja  urya  gela  sudhu  khai  jal 
khungi  puthi  baya  jaite  ange  nai  bal. 
daiva  hetu  duhkha  pai  sahaje  katar 
daksina  magite  gelam  tantider  ghar 
dhaoyadhai  tantighare  dila  darasan 
cira-dadhir  ghata  dekhi  anandita  man. 

Ibid. 


Page  142 

tomar  kavitva  yar  bhala  nahi  lage 
savam^e  tahare  ami  samharimu  bhaghe. 

Raymangal. 


Page  143 

ardhek  mathay  kala  ekabhage  cura  tala 

vanamala  chilimili  sathe 

dhaval  ardhek  kay  ardha  nil  megh  pray 

Koran  Puran  dui  hathe. 


Ibid. 


APPENDIX 


397 


Page  147 

kanyake  dakiya  kichu  bale  nisacarl 
pusinu  tomar  tare  ati  yatna  kari 
tumi  ta  amar  tare  sadata  sebile 
janak  jananl  hatya  mane  na  karile 
brahmanere  bibha  dinu  yaha  nija  ghare 
kariha  svamir  seva  param  adare 
aparadh  amar  sakal  kara  ksema 
nindavad  na  kariha  bhagyavati  rama 
balite  balite  duti  cakse  jal  jhare 
kanyar  galay  giya  mamatay  dhare. 

Kamalamahgal. 

Page  152 

Sravanamasete  mayana  bara  sukha  lagau 
rimijhimi  barisaye  mane  bhava  lagau 
dharati  bahaye  dhara  rati  andhiyarl 
khelaye  bandhura  sane  premera  dhamarl 
syamala  ambara  ^yamala  kheti 
syamala  dasa  disa  divasaka  juti 
khelaye  bijalT  mehu  dhamarera  sange 
tamasri  bhimasi  nisi  ranga-biraiige 
sravane  sundara  rtu  laharl  oghara 
hari  bine  kaichane  paiba  para 
kharatara  sindhurava  pavana  daruna 
cauguna  bariya  yay  viraha-aguna  .... 
janama-dukhinT  tui  rajara  duhita 
viphala  se  nama  dhara  Lorera  vanita 
sujana-pirlti  jana  nitya-nava  mala 
Laskar  nayaka-mani  jaga  ujiyala. 

Daulat  Kazi. 

Page  155-156 

aha  mor  bidare  paran 
jagite  svapane  dekhi  bhume  nahi  an 
ki  jani  likhiche  vidhi  e pap  karame 
paiya  paras-mani  harailum  bhrame 


398 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


se  sab  maner  duhkha  kahake  kahiba 
vyathita  bandhav-kul  smarite  mariba 
yuger  adhik  yay  duhkhe  nisi  din 
kemane  sahiba  prane  jala  bine  min 
ki  lagi  darun  jlu  ache  mor  ghate 
kathin  pasan  hiya  e dukhe  na  phate 
mahanta  Saiyad  Musa  jhane  ta  kusal 
viraha-vedana  gahe  hin  Alaol. 

Saiful-mulk  Badiujjamal. 

Page  163 

candl  yadi  den  dekha  tabe  ki  se  yay  lekha 

pancallr  amani  racan 

buddhi  nai  yar  ghate  tara  bale  satya  bate 

pathe  candl  dila  darasan 
eta  dos  uddharite  loker  caitanya  dite 

candl  race  Ramananda  YatT 
aneker  uparodh  keha  na  kario  krodh 

anek  ^isyer  anumati. 

Candimahgal  (by  Ramananda). 


Page  168 


ohe  vinod-ray  dhlre  yao  he 
adhare  madhur  hasi  bamsiti  bajao  he 
nava  jaladhara  tanu  sikhi  puccha  sakradhanu 

plta-dhara  bijulite  mayure  nacao  he 
nayana-cakor  mor  dekhiya  hayeche  bhor 

mukha-sudhakar-hasi-sudhay  bamcao  he 
nitya  tumi  khela  yaha  nitya  bhalo  nahe  taha 

ami  ye  khelite  kahi  se  khela  khelao  he 
tumi  ye  cahani  cao  se  cahani  kotha  pao 

Bharat  yeman  cahe  sei-mata  cao  he. 


Annadamangal. 


APPENDIX 


399 


Page  170 


man  re  krsi-kaj  jano  na 

eman  manav-jamin  raila  patit  abad  karle  phalta  sona 
kalir  name  deore  bera  phasale  tachrup  habe  na 
muktakeslr  sakta  bera  tar  kache  ta  Yam  ghemse  na 
adya  abda-satante  va  bajeapta  habe  jana  na 
ache  ektare  man  ei-vela  tui  cutiye  phasal  kete  ne  na 
guru-datta  blj  ropan  kore  bhakti  vari  tay  semca  na 
eka  yadi  na  paris  man  Ramprasad-ke  sange  ne  na. 

Ramprasad  Sen. 


Page  172-3 

phelae  langal  rnathe 

phelae  langal  mathe  palay  chute  yata  casi-gan 

begar  dharite  aila  kata  sata  jan. 
yena  caitra  mase 

bhaktya-dhara  byapahara  yedike  yake  pay 

hate  bemclhe  gopta  mere  rastate  khatay. 
hate  kore  beter  bari 

hate  kore  beter  bari  taratari  mare  sabar  pithe 

beter  bhaye  yata  kora  caturdige  chute, 
khaoa  daoa  bandha  kore 

khiioa  daoa  bandha  kore  rakhe  dhore  sandhye  kale  chuti 
kodal  pithe  jhuri  hate  yay  guti  guti. 
sandhey  rasad  nite 

sandhey  rasad  nite  cari  bhite  kare  maha  gol 

ksudhar  jvalay  bikali  kare  bale  Hari-bol. 
sune  bakhshi  ela  dheve 

^une  bakhshi  elo  dheve  rasad  laye  mapui  sange  kari 
rasad  dekhe  yata  kora  baise  sari  sari, 
kayal  rasad  mape 

rasad  peye  cale  dheye  karkare  cibay 
hut-pat  kore  ghate  jal  giya  khay. 
bale  hay  pran  bancila 

bale  hay  pran  bancila  dhtday  sula  nutupatu  have 

ghum  bhahgila  pipira  khay  cale  bege  dheye. 


Radhamohan. 


400 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  173 

deoan  bale  rayat  sab  karte  pare 
kake-o  svarge  tole  kake  achre  mare 
rayat  laiya  sabar  thakurali 
yata  dekha  sonar  bala  ravater  kari. 

Krsnahari  Das. 


Page  174 

dhlre  dhlre  yay  dekha  cav  phire  phire 
kemane  amare  bala  yaite  ghare 
ye  chila  antare  mora  bahye  dekhi  tare 
nayana-antare  hale  punah  se  antare. 

Nidhu  Babu. 


Page  174-175 

nana  dese  nana  bliasa 
bine  svadeslya  bhase  pure  ki  asa 
kata  nadl  sarovar 
ki  va  phal  cataklr 
dhara  jal  bine  kabhu  ghuce  ki  trsa. 

Ibid. 

bhalobasibe  bole  bhalobasi  ne 
amar  svabhav  ei  toma  boi  ar  janine 
vidhumukhe  madhur  hasi 
dekhile  sukhete  bhasi 
se  janye  dekhite  asi  dekha  dite  asi  ne. 

Srldhar  ‘Kathak’. 


mane  raila  sai  manera  vedana 
pravase  yakhan  yay  go  se 
tare  bali  bali  ar  bala  holo  na. 

Ram  Basu. 


APPENDIX 


401 


Page  220 

ksama,  sakhe — posa  pakhl  pinjar  khulile, 
cahe  punah  pasibare  purva  karagare? 
esa  tumi,  esa  slghra,  jaba  kunja-vane — 
tumi  he  viharigaraj,  tumi  sahge  nile. 
deha  padasray  asi — prem-udasinl 
ami,  jatha  jao  jaba,  kariba  ja  kara, — 
bikaiba  kay-manah  tava  ranga-paye! 

Virangana-kavya  (Canto  ii). 


Page  222 

kena  eta  phul  tulili  svajani — 

bhariya  dala? 

meghavrta  hale  pare  ki  rajanl 

tarar  mala? 

ar  ki  jatane  kusuma-ratane 

vrajer  bala?  . . . 

ar  ki  paribe  kabhu  phula-har 

vraja-kaminl? 

kena,  lo,  harili  bhusan  latar 

vanasobhinl? 

ali  bamdhu  tar,  ke  ache  radhar? — 

hatabhaginl ! 

V raja  hga na-kavya  (‘Kusum ’) 

Page  223 

likhinu  ki  nam  mor  viphal  jatane 
balite.  re  kal,  tor  sagarer  tire, 
phena-cur  jalarasi  asi,  ki  re,  phire, 
muchite  tucchete  tvara  e mor  likhane? — 
athava  khodinu  tare  yasogiri  sire, 
gun-rup  yantre  kati  aksar  su-ksane, — 
naribe  uthate  yaha,  dhuye  nija  nTre, 
vismrti,  va  malinite  maler  milane? — 
sunya-jal  jala-pathe  jale  lok  smare  ; 
deva-sunya  devalaye  adrsye  nibase 
devata  ; bhasmer  rasi  dhake  vaisvanare. 


26 


402 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


seirup,  dhar  jabe  pare  kalagrase, 
yasorupasrame  pran  martye  bas  kare  ;■ — 
ku-jase  narake  yena  su-jase  akase. 

Caturdaspadi  Kavitavali  (‘Ya£’). 


Page  258-9 

aji  visva  alo  kar  kirana-nikare 
hrday  uthale  kar  jayadhvani  kare  . . . 
krame  krame  nibiteche  lok-kolahal 
lalita  bamsari-tan  uthiche  keval! 
man  yena  majiteche  amrta-sagare 
deha  yena  uriteche  samaveg-bhare. 

Nisarga-sandarsan. 


Page  259 

parer  patara-cata  apanar  nai 
matamat-karta  tamra  bangalar  cami 
man  kabhu  dhay  nai  kavitver  pathe 
kavira  caluk  tabu  tamhaderi  mate 
janamete  pan  nai  amrter  svad 
amrta  bilate  kintu  mane  bara  sadh. 

Sadher  Asan  (iv). 

Page  261 

bhalobasi  narl  nare 
bhalobasi  caracare 

bhalobasi  apanare,  maner  anande  rai. 

Ibid. 


Page  263 

pradlp  laiya  kare,  samlr  sahkay 
eso  bala  sumanda-gamane, 
dipta  mukh,  dlrgha  rakta-pradlp-sikhay 
cumbita,  cancal  samlrane. 


Savita-sudarsan. 


APPENDIX 


403 


Page  265 

daksiner  dvar  khuli  mrdu-manda-gati 
vana-bhume  padarpiya  rtu-kulapati 
latikar  gamte  gamte  phutaila  phul 
ange  gheri  paraila  pallava-dukula. 
ki  jani  kiser  lagi  haiya  udas 
gharer  bahir  haila  malay-batas. 
phuler  ghomta  khuli  karaye  suvas 
“e  nahe  se”  bali  ^es  charaye  nisvas. 

Svapnaprayan  (ii). 


Page  265-66 

bhate  yatha  Satya-Hem,  mate  yatha  Vlr 
Guna-Jyoti  hare  yatha  maner  timir 
nava  sobha  dhare  yatha  Som  ar  Ravi 
sei  Dev-niketan  alo  kare  kavi. 

Ibid.  (iii). 


Page  266 


dekha  dila  attalika  mahakay, 
parsva  pariteche  bhahgi,  ucca-sire  mahattva  §ikhay. 
bhana  janalay 
vayu  phuslay. 

Ibid.  (iv). 


Page  266 

tumi  thik  yena  hrsikes. 
baromas  ananta-sayyay  lln, 
ek-rati  cetan  keval  hay  vetaner  din ! 

Ibid.  (iv). 


Page  267 

mantri  bale,  “bhup 
vetan  kirup 

du-cakse  na  dekhilam  batsarek  tin.” 


Ibid.  (iv). 


404 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  267 

bhup  bale,  “sakalei  ksln-jlvl, 
tumi-i  keval  haitecha  dekhi  mamser  dhibi! 
chile  sudhu  asthi 
haiyacha  hastl, 

vetan  pele  ki  ar  thakibe  prthivl?” 

Ibid.  (iv). 


Page  267-8 

kavi  tumi — kiser  duhkha  tomar,  vyatha  pele  prane 
phutiya  kahite  para  vedana  jagata-jana  kane! 
yaha  suni  asanta  nitanta  ye  balak— khela  tyaji 
seo  base  santa  haye!  seo  tar  bhav-rase  maji 
apan  kajal-amkhi  karaye  sajal!  seirup 
nll-sarasija-dale  hima-vindu  jhare  tup  tup 
takhan  yaminl-mata  mane  peye  yatana  duhsaha 
biday-cumban  den  tahare  sajal  amkhi  saha  . . . 
aranyer  pakhl  tumi,  bilaper  dhvani  kena  mukhe! 
cirakal  tumi  aranyer  pakhl,  thakibek  tatha 
cirakal  l balitechi  ami  sei  aranyer  katha, 
ye  aranya  bataser  sane  mukhamukhi  katha  kay — 
dare  na  jhare-jhapate,  diganta  praclre  baddha  nay, 
apane  apani  rahe  bistariya  sadananda-sakha 

Ibid.  (vii). 


Page  269-70 

ami  tare  bhalobasi  asthi  mamsa  saha! 
ami  o narTr  rupe, 
ami  o mamser  stupe, 
kamanar  kamanlya  keli-kalidaha — 

0 kardame — oi  panke, 

01  klede — o kalanke, 
kallya  saper  mata  sukhT  aharaha! 
ami  tare  bhalobasi  asthi  mamsa  saha! 

Kastufi  (‘Amar  Bhalobasa’). 


APPENDIX 


405 


Page  271 

e moha-kalarika-sikha — tomari  ki  homaSikha, 
dahiya  nlcata  dainya  uthiche  gagane? 

Esd. 

Page  271 

hay  hok  priyatama, 
ananta  jlvan  mama 
andhakarmay, 
tomar  pather  pare 
ananta  kaler  tare 
alo  yadi  ray. 

Alo  O Chdya  (‘Pantha-vugal’). 

Page  274-5 

kanna-hasir  dol-dolano  paus-phaguner  pala 
tari  madhye  cirajlvan  baiba  ganer  dala — 
ei  ki  tomar  khusi,  amay  tai  parale  mala 
surer  gandha  dhala. 

tai  ki  amar  ghum  chuteche,  bamdh  tuteche  mane 
khepa  haoyar  dheu  utheche  ciravyathar  vane, 
kampe  amar  diva-nisar  sakal  amdhar-ala. 
ei  ki  tomar  khu^i,  amay  tai  parale  mala 
surer  gandha  dhala. 

rater  basa  hay  ni  bamdha,  diner  kaje  truti, 
vina  kajer  sevar  majhe  pai  ne  ami  chuti, 
santi  kothay  mor  tare  hay  visvabhuvan-majhe, 
a^anti  ye  aghat  kare  tai  to  vina  baje, 
nitya  rabe  pran-porano  ganer  agun  jvala — • 
ei  ki  tomar  khusi,  amay  tai  parale  mala 
surer  gandha  dhala. 

GTtavitan  (i). 


Page  279 

yay  re  sadh  jagat  pane  kevali  ceye  rai 
avak  haye  apana  bhule  kathati  nahi  kai. 

Prabhat-sangTt  (‘Ceye  Thaka). 


406 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  280-81 

e moha  ka  din  thake,  e maya  milayl 
kichute  pare  na  ar  bamdhiya  rakhite. 
komal  bahur  dor  chinna  hoye  yay, 
madira  uthale  nako  madira-amkhite. 
keha  kare  nahi  cineamdhar  ni£ay. 
phul  phota  sanga  hole  gahe  na  pakhite. 

Kadi  O Komal  ("Moha’). 

Page  281 

ye-amrta  lukano  tomay 
se  kothay! 

andhakare  sandhyar  akase 
vijan  tarar  majhe  kampiche  yeman 
svarger  alokamay  rahasya  aslm, 
oi  nayaner 

nibir  timir-tale,  kampiche  temani 
atmar  rahasya-^ikha. 

Manas T (‘Nisphal  Kamana’). 


Page  281 

sakal  vela  katiya  gela 
vikal  nahi  yay 
diner  £ese  sranta-chavi 
kichute  yete  cay  na  ravi 
cahiya  thake  dharani  pane 
biday  nahi  cay. 
meghete  din  jaraye  thake 

milaye  thake  mathe, 
pariya  thake  tarur  sire, 
kampite  thake  nadir  nire, 
damraye  thake  dlrghachaya 
meliya  ghate  bate. 

Ibid.  (‘Apeksa’). 


APPENDIX 


407 


Page  282-3 

jagater  sata  sata  asamapta  katha  yata 

akaler  vicchinna  mukul, 

ajnata  jlvan-gula,  akhyata  kTrtir  dhula 

kata  bhav,  kata  bhay  bhul — 
samsarer  dasdiSi  jhariteche  aharniSi 

jharajhar  jharanar  mato — 
ksana-asru  ksanahasi,  pariteche  rasi  rasi 

sabda  tar  suni  avirata. 

Sonar  Tan  (Varsayapan’). 


Page  283 

metho  sure  kamde  yena  ananter  bamsi 
visver  prantar  majhe  ; ^uniya  udasT 
vasundhara  basiya  achen  elocule 
duravyapT  sasyaksetre  Jahnavlr  kule 
ek-khani  raudraplta  hiranya-ancal 
vakse  tani  diya  ; sthir  nayana-jugal 
dur  nilambare  magna  ; mukhe  nahi  vanT! 
dekhilam  tamr  sei  mlan  mukh-khani 
sei  dvaraprante  lin  stabdha  marmahata 
mor  cari-vatsarer  kanyatir  mata. 

Ibid.  (‘Jete  Nahi  Diba’). 


Page  283-4 


amar  prthivl  tumi 
bahu  baraser  ; tomar  mrttikasane 
ainare  misaye  laye  ananta  gagane 
asranta  carane,  karivacha  pradaksin 
savitr-mandal  . . . 

. . . tai  aji 

kona-din  anamane  basiya  ekaki 
Padma-tTre,  sammukhe  meliya  mugdha  amkhi 
sarva  ange  sarva  mane  anubhav  kari 
tomar  mrttika  majhe  kemane  sThari 
uthiteche  trnahkur  ; 


Ibid.  (‘Vasundhara’). 


408 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  285 


ke  se,  jani  na  ke,  cini  nai  tare — 
sudhu  eituku  jani,  tari  lagi  ratri-andhakare 
caleche  manav-yatri  yug  hate  yugantar-pane 
jhar-jhanjha  vajrapate  jvalaye  dhariya  savadhant 
antar-pradlp-khani.  sudhu  jani,  ye  suneche  kane 
tahar  ahvan-git,  chuteche  se  nirbhlk  parane 
sankat-avarta  majhe,  diyeche  se  visva  visarjan, 
niryatan  layeche  se  vaksa  pati  ; mrtyur  garjan 
suneche  se  saiiglter  niata.  dahiyache  agni  tare, 
viddha  kariyache  sul,  chinna  tare  kareche  kuthare  ; 
sarva  priyavastu  tar  akatare  kariya  indhan 
cirajanma  tari  lagi  jveleche  se  hom-hutaSan. 
hrtpinda  kariya  chinna  raktapadma  arghya  upahare 
bhakti-bhare  jamnasodh  ses  puja  pujiyache  tare 
marane  krtartha  kari  pran. 

Citra  (‘Ebar  Phirao  More’). 


Page  287 

dhanya  ami  heritechi  aka^er  alo 
dhanya  ami  jagatere  basiyachi  bhalo. 

Caitali  (‘Prabhat’.). 


Page  287-8 

vatayane  basi  ore  heri  pratidin 
chota  meye  khelahin,  capalatahin, 
gambhlr  kartavyarata, — tatpar-carane 
ase  yay  nitya  kaje  ; a^ru-bhara  mane 
or  mukh  pane  ceye  hasi  sneha-bhare. 
aji  ami  tari  khuli  yaba  desantare  ; 
valika-o  yabe  kabe  karma-avasane 
apan  svadese.  o amare  nahi  jane, 
ami-o  jani-ne  ore  ; dekhibare  cahi 
kotha  or  habe  ses  jTvasutra  bahi. 
kon  ajanita  grame  kon  dur  de^e 
kar  ghare  vadhu  habe,  mata  habe  sese. 
tar  pare  sab  ses, — tar-o  pare,  hay, 
ei  meyetir  path  caleche  kothay. 

Ibid.  (‘Ananta  Pathe’). 


APPENDIX 


409 


Page  290 

kono  j inis  cinba  ye  re 

pratham  theke  ses 
neba  ye  sab  bujhe  pare — - 
nai  se  samay  les. 
jagatta  je  jlrna  maya 
seta  janar  age 
sakal  svapna  kuriye  niye 
jlvan-ratri  bhage. 
chuti  ache  sudhu  du-din 
bhalobasbar  rnato, 
kajer  janye  jlvan  hale 

dlrghajivan  hato. 
thakba  na  bhai  thakba  na  keu 
thakbe  na  bhai  kichu, 
sei  anande  chal  re  chute 
kaler  pichu  picliu. 


Ksanika  (‘Ses’). 


Page  290 

dTghir  jale  jhalak  jhale 

manik  hlra, 

sarse  ksete  uthche  mete 

maumachira. 

e path  geche  kata  gamye, 
kata  gacher  chave  chaye, 
kata  mather  gaye  gave 

kata  vane! 

ami  sudhu  hethay  elem 
akarane ! 


Ibid.  (‘Pathe’). 


Page  291 

bali  ne  to  kare,  sakale  vikale 
tomar  pather  majhete 
banisi  buke  laye  vina  kaje  asi 
berai  chadma  sajete. 


410 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


yaha  mukhe  ase  gai  sei  gan, 
nana  raginlte  diye  nana  tan, 
ek  gan  rakhi  gopane. 
nana  mukh  pane  amkhi  meli  cai, 
toma  pane  cai  svapane. 

Ibid.  (‘Antaratama’). 

Page  291 

e mrtyu  chedite  habe,  ei  bhayajal, 
ei  punja-punjlbhuta  jader  janjal, 
mrta  avarjana.  o re  jagitei  habe 
e dlpta  prabhat  kale,  e jagrata  bhave 
ei  karmadhame. 

Naivedya  (61). 


Page  291 


dayahln  sabhyata-naginT 
tuleche  kutil  phana  chakser  nimise, 
gupta  nakha-danta  tar  bhari  tlvra  vise 
jati-prem  nam  dhari  pracanda  anyay 
dharmere  bhasate  cahe  baler  vanyay. 


Ibid.  (65). 


Page  292 

dujaner  katha  domhe  ses  kari  laba 
se-ratre  ghate  ni  hena  avakas  tava. 
vamhln  bidayer  sei  vedanay 
cari  dike  cahiyachi  vyartha  vasanay. 
aji  e hrdaye  sarra  bhavanar  nice 
tomar  amar  van!  ekatre  misiche. 

Smaran  (‘Milan’). 


Page  293 

ye  gandha  kampe  phuler  buker  kache, 
bhorer  aloke  ye  gan  ghumaye  ache, 
^arada-dhanye  ye  abha  abhase  nace 

kirane  kirane  hasita  hirane-harite. 


APPENDIX 


411 


sei  gandhei  garechi  amar  kaya, 

se  gan  amate  raciche  nutan  maya, 

se  abha  amar  nayane  pheleche  chaya  ; — . 

amar  majhare  amare  ke  pare  dharite? 

Utsarga  (21,  ‘Kavicarit’). 


Page  294 

he  cira-purano,  cirakal  more 
garicha  nutan  kariya. 
ciradin  tumi  sathe  chile  mor 
rabe  ciradin  dhariya. 

Page  294 

khamcar  majhe  acin  pakhi 
komne  ase  vay, 
dharte  parle  mana-beri 

ditem  pakhir  pay. 

Baul  Song  (fragment) 


Page  297-8 

he  rudra  amar, 

lubdha  tara,  mugdha  tara.  have  par 
tava  simhadvar, 
sangopane 
vina  nimantrane 

simdh  kete  curi  kare  tomar  hhandar. 

cora-dhan  durvaha  se  bhar 
pale  pale 

tahader  manna  dale. 

sadhya  nahi  rahe  namabar. 

tomare  kamdiya  tabe  kahi  varamvar, — 
eder  marjana  karo,  he  rudra  amar. 

ceve  dekhi  marjana  se  name  ese 
pracanda  jhanjhar  vese  : 
sei  jhare 

dhiilay  tahara  pare  ; 


412 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


curir  prakanda  bojha  khanda  khanda  haye 
se  batase  kotha  yay  baye. 
he  rudra  amar, 
mar j ana  tomar 
garjaman  vajragnisikhay, 
suryaster  pralay-likhay, 
rakter  varsane, 

akasmat  sarighater  gharsane  gharsane. 

Balaka  (11,  ‘Vicar’). 


Page  298 

vlrer  e raktasrot,  matar  e asrudliara 
er  yata  mfdya  se  ki  dharar  dhulay  habe  hara. 
svarga  ki  habe  na  kena 
visver  kandarl  sudhibe  na 
eta  rn? 

ratrir  tapasya  se  ki  anibe  na  din. 
nidarun  duhkha-rate 
mrtyu-ghate 

manus  curnila  yabe  nija  martya-sima 
takhan  dibe  na  dekha  devatar  amar  mahima? 

Ibid.  (37,  ‘Jharer  Kheya’). 


Page  299-300 

amar  smrti  thak  na  gamtha 

amar  gTti  majhe, 
yekhane  oi  jhauer  pata 

marmariya  baje. 
yekhane  oi  siuli-tale 
ksanahasir  sisir  jvale, 
chaya  yethay  ghurne  dhale 

kiran-kana-mall 
yethay  amar  kajer  vela 
kajer  vese  kare  khela, 
yethay  kajer  avahela 

nibhrte  dip  jvali 
nana  raner  svapan  diye 

bhare  ruper  dali. 


Parises  (‘Dinavasan’.) 


APPENDIX 


413 


Page  301 

gram-subade  kon-kale  se  chila  ye  kar  masi, 
manilaler  hay  didima,  cunilaler  mami, 
bake  balte  hathat  se  yay  thami 

smarane  karo  nam  ye  nahi  mele. 
gabhir  nisas  phele 
cupti  kore  bhabe 
eman  kore  ar  kata  din  yabe. 

Charar  Chabi  (‘Pisni’). 


Page  301-2 

naginlra  cari  dike  pheliteche  visakta  nisvas, 

^antir  lalita-vani  sonaibe  vyartha  parihas — 
biday  nebar  age  tai 
dak  diye  yai 

danaver  sathe  yara  sangramer  tare 

prastut  hateche  ghare  ghare. 

Prantik  (18) 


Page  302 

suryaster  path  hate  vikaler  raudra  elo  neme 
batas  jhimiye  geche  theme 
bicali-bojhai  gari  cale  dur  Nadiyar  hate 
janasunva  mathe. 
piche  piche 

dari-bamdha  bachur  caliche, 
rajavamsl  parar  kinare 
pukurer  dhare 

Banainall  panditer  bara  chele 

saraksan  base  ache  chip  phele  . . . 
teligram  elo  sei  ksane 

Phinland  curna  holo  Sobhiyet  bomar  varsane. 


Sanai  (‘Apaghat’). 


414 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  303 


Page  311 


yaha  kichu  ceyechinu  ekanta  agrahe 
tahar  caudik  hate  bahur  vestan 
apasrta  hay  yabe 

takhan  se  bandhaner  mukta  ksetre 

ye  cetana  udbhasiya  uthe 

prabhat  alor  sathe 

dekhi  tar  abhinna  svarup, 

sunya  tabu  se  to  sunya  nay. 

takhan  bujhite  pari  rsir  se  van! — 

akas  anandapurna  na  rahita  yadi 

jadatar  nag-pase  deha-man  haita  niscal. 

ko  hyevanyat  kah  pranyat 

yad  esa  akasa  anando  na  syat. 

Rogsayyay  (36). 


iccha  kare  avirata  apanar  manomata 

galpa  likhi  ekekti  kare. 

chota  pran,  chota  vyatha  chota  chota  duhkhakatha 
nitantai  sahaj  saral, 

sahasra  vlsmrtirasi  pratyaha  yeteche  bhasi 

tari  du-cariti  asrujal. 

nahi  varnanar  chata  ghatanar  ghanaghata 

nahi  tattva  nahi  upade^ 

antare  atrpti  rabe  sanga  kari  mane  habe 

6es  haye  haila  na  ses.  . . . 
seisab  helaphela  nimiser  lllakhela 

cari  dike  kari  stupakar, 
tai  diye  kari  srsti  ekti  vismrti-vrsti 

jlvaner  ^ravan-nisar. 

Sonar  Tan  (‘Varsayapan’). 


Page  311-12 

sudhu  yaoya  asa,  sudhu  srote  bhasa, 
sudhu  alo-amdhare  kamda-hamsa. 

sudhu  dekha  paoya,  sudhu  chumye  yaoya, 
sudhu  dure  yete  yete  kemde  caoya, 
sudhu  nava  dura^ay  age  cale  yay — 
piche  phele  yay  miche  asa. 


APPENDIX 


415 


asesa  vasana  laye  bhana  bal, 
pranpan  kaje  pay  bhana  phal, 
bhana  tarl  dhare  bhase  paravare, 
bhav  kemde  mare — bhana  bhasa. 

hrdaye  hrdaye  adha-paricay, 
adhakhani  katha  sahga  nahi  hay, 
laje  bhaye  trase  adho-visvase 
sudhu  adhakhani  bhalobasa. 

Gitavitan. 


321 

age  cal,  age  cal  bhai, 

pore  thaka  piche,  more  thaka  miche 

bemce  more  kiba  phal  bhai. 
age  cal,  age  cal  bhai. 

e 322 

lekha  sambandhe  tumi  ye  prastav  karecha  se  ati  uttam. 
masikpatre  lekha  apeksa  bandhuke  patra  lekha  anek  sahaj. 
karan,  amader  adhikamsa  bhav-i  buno  hariner  mata,  apari- 
cita  lok  dekhlei  daur  dey.  abar  posa  bhav  evam  posa 
hariner  madhye  svabhavik  vanya-^rl  paoya  yay  na.  . . . 

kona  ekta  viSes  prasahga  niye  tar  agagora  tarka  nai  hola. 
tar  mlmamsai  ba  nai  hola.  keval  du-janer  maner  aghat-prati- 
ghate  cintapravaher  madhye  vividha  dheu  tola — yate  kare 
tader  upar  nana  varner  aldchaya  khelte  pare — ei  hale-i  bes 
hay.  sahitye  e rakam  suyog  sarvada  ghate  na — sakalei  sar- 
vahgasundar  mat  prakas  kartei  vyasta— eijanye  adhikamsa 
masikpatra  mrta  mater  miujiyam  bollei  hay.  . . . 

satyake  manuser  jivanamser  sange  misrita  kare  dile  seta 
lage  bhalo.  . . . 

satyake  eman  bhave  praka^ita  kara  yak  yate  loke  avilambe 
jante  pare  ye,  seta  amar-i  vises  man  theke  viSeshbhave  dekha 
dicche.  amar  bhalo  laga  manda  laga,  amar  sandeha  evam 
vi^vas,  amar  atlta  evam  vartaman  tar  saiige  jarita  haye  thak, 
tahalei  satyake  jadapinder  mata  dekhabe  na. 
amar  mane  hay  sahityer  mul  bhavtai  tai. 

Sadhana  (Vol.  i.  No.  4). 


416 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  323 

parer  racita  itihas  nirvicare  adyopanta  mukhasta  kariya 
evam  parlksav  ucca  nambar  l'akhiya  pandit  haoya  yaite  pare, 
kintu  svadeser  itihas  nijera  sangraha  evam  racanii  karibar 
ye  udyog,  sei  udyoger  phal  keval  panditya  nahe.  tahate 
amader  deser  manasik  baddha  jalasaye  sroter  sancar  kariya 
dey.  sei  udyame  sei  cestay  amader  svasthya,  amader  pran. 


Page  337 


dekha  cutki  sutra  gota  sattar 
likhila  Samkhyakar, 
tai  kanpharense  dayeser  pare 
chear  pare  ni  tar. 

dada  tinti  bhalume  likhile,  malum 
haita  elem  yata, 
ar  darsan-sakhe  hato  yoge-yage 
sakhapati  antata. 
hay  alpe  sarite  marila  becara 
likhe  ha-ya-ba-ra-la, 
ei  Jambudvlpe  kono  phelosipe 
vakta  na  hala — a! 

Hasantika  (‘Cutki’). 


Page  338 

bhasmalocan  sab  sabhyata  ruksa 
kal  kore  gile  khay  joyaner  joyanT, 
cumye  yay  kset-bhuim  cimnir  dhomyate, 
Ganga  se  septik  tyaiiker  dhoyanT. 


Page  357 

urdhvamukhe  dheyaiva  rajohTn  rajanlr  mallika-madhavl 

nehariya  nlharika-chavi — 
kalpanar  draksa-vane  madhu  cusi,  nlrakta  adhare, 
upahasi  dugdhadhara  dharitrlr  purna  payodhare, 
bubhuksu  manav  lagi  raci  indrajal 
apana  vancita  kari  cira  ihakal 
kata-din  bhulaibe  martya  jane  bilaiya  mohan  asav, 

he  kavi-vasav? 

Vismarani  (‘Mohamudgar’). 


APPENDIX 


417 


Page  358-9 

o naki  fopath  kareche, — ‘kapale  na  jutile  khamti  sona 
abharan-hln  kemde  yak  din,  khade  tabu  bhuliba  na?  . . . 
bhakti  prem  ki  dander  tale  sricarane  matha  thoka? 
mukti  ki  ei — dara  chimre  chute  sakirn  khomyare  dhoka? 

Marumaya  (‘Duhkher  Kavi’). 


Page  359 

mithyar  mohe  yadi  keha  kabhu  satyai  sukh  pay — 
tapta  baliya  bhan  kore  keha  panta  jurate  cay — 
laye  Gopaler  paran-putali 
bandhyar  sneha  uthe  ye  uthali — 
tar  sei  sukhe  kar  na  vaksa  asrute  bhese  yay? 
kathor  satva  smaran  karave  "ke  tare  sasite  cay? 

Hemanta-godhuli  (‘Duhkher  Kavi’). 


Page  367 

palki  care  care  kar  pa  pangu  haye  geche, — 
aj  oi  nagna  sabal  payer  sahge  pa  miliye  cala. 
rnathay  pa  diye  diye  kar  pa  bhari  halo 
paper  bhare, — 

oi  punvapather  dhulay  namao  se  bhar. 

‘Parnodal’. 

Page  373 

hay  cil,  sonali  danar  cil,  ei  bhije  megher  dupure 
tumi  ar  kemdo  nako  ure  ure  dhansiri  nadltir  pase! 
tomar  kannar  sure  beter  phaler  mato  tar  mlan  cokh 

mane  ase! 

prthivlr  rana  rajkanyader  mato  se  ye  cale  geche 

rup  niye  dure  ; 

abar  tahare  kena  deke  ano?  ke  hay  hrday  khumre 

vedana  jagate  bhalobase! 
hay  cil,  sonali  danar  cil,  ei  bhije  megher  dupure 
tumi  ar  ure  ure  kemdo  nako  dhansiri  nadltir  pase! 

Mahdprthivl  (‘Hay  Cil’). 


27 


418 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Page  379-80 

ayuhksan  mahavitta,  prakanda  nirala  samaye, 
kayahln  ispatl  digante  kichu  maya. 
parday-parday  ran  lege  yay  ksantuku  jure 
tatei  praner  bali  ekanta  samay  ; 
nice  tari  gach  nadl 
priyajan  se-muhurte  cale,  — 
dokane  kaleje  trene  seiksan  ayu 
kl  bojhay  kichui  jani  na — 

5udhu  se-muhurte  bamci  tomar  bhuvane. 


Pala-badal  (‘Eroplene’  st.  2). 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


De,  S.  K. 

Dutt,  R.  C. : 
Ghosh,  J.  C. : 

Guha  Thakurta, 
Sen,  D.  C. : 


Sen,  Sukumar: 


Thompson,  E.  J. 


A.  HISTORY  OF  LITERATURE 

Bengali  Literature  in  the  Nineteenth 
Century  (1800-1825)  ; Calcutta  Uni- 
versity, 1919 

Literature  of  Bengal ; Calcutta,  1887 
Bengali  Literature  ;■  Oxford  University 
Press,  1948 

P. : The  Bengali  Drama  ; London,  1930 

History  of  Bengali  Literature  ; Calcutta 
University,  second  edition 
Bengali  Ramayanas  ; Calcutta  Uni- 
versity, 1920 

Folk  Literature  of  Bengal  ; Calcutta 
University,  1920 

Vaishnav  Literature  of  Mediaeval 
Bengal  ; Calcutta  University,  1917 
Vahgabhasa  O Sdhitya  (in  Bengali)  ; 
Calcutta,  eighth  edition 
History  of  Brajabuli  Literature ; Calcutta 
• University,  1935 

Bangala  Sahityer  Itihas  (in  Bengali)  ; 
Burdwan  Sahitya  Sabha,  third  edition, 
1952-1956 

Bangala  Sdhitye  Gadya  (in  Bengali)  ; 
Calcutta,  third  edition,  1949 
Bangala  Sahityer  Katha  (in  Bengali)  ; 
Calcutta  University,  sixth  edition,  1956 
Islam i Bdhgla  Sdhitya  (in  Bengali)  ; 
Burdwan  Sahitya  Sabha,  1951 
: Rabindranath  Tagore  ; Calcutta,  second 

edition,  1926 

Rabindranath  Tagore,  Poet  and  Drama- 
tist ; Oxford  University  Press,  1948 


420 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Thompson,  E.  J.  8c  Bengali  Religious  Lyrics — Sakta ; Cal- 
Spencer,  A.  M. : cutta,  1923 

B.  TRANSLATIONS  OF  TEXTS 

Old  Bengali 

Old  Bengali  Texts',  Linguistic  Society 
of  India,  1948 

Religious  Lyrics  of  Bengal  ; Calcutta, 
1926 

Kavikankan’s  Candi  (Journal  of  the 
Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal) 
Caitanyacaritamrta  ( AdiWa ) ; Calcutta, 
1925 

Vipradasa’s  Manasamahgal  ; The  Asiatic 
Society,  1953 

Modern  Bengali 

1.  BANKIM  CHANDRA  CHATTERJI 

Ananda  Math  by  N.  C.  Sengupta  ; Calcutta,  1906 
Candrasekhar  by  M.  N.  Raychaudhuri  ; Calcutta,  1904 
Candrasekhar  by  D.  C.  Mullick  ; Calcutta,  1905 
Durgesh  Nandini,  or,  The  Chieftain’s  Daughter  by  C.  C. 
Mookherji  ; Calcutta,  1880 

Indira  and  Other  Stories  by  J.  D.  Anderson  ; Calcutta,  1918 
Kapalkundala  by  D.  N.  Ghosal,  Calcutta,  1919 
Kapalkundala  by  H.  A.  D.  Phillips  ; London,  1885 
Krishnakanta’s  Will  by  Miriam  S.  Knight  (with  introduction, 
glossary  and  notes  by  J.  F.  Blumhardt)  ; London,  1895 
Krishnakanta’s  Will  by  D.  C.  Ray  ; Calcutta,  1918 
Radharani  by  R.  C.  Maulik  ; Calcutta,  1910 
Rajani  by  P.  Majumdar  ; Calcutta,  1928 
Sitaram  by  S.  Mukherji  ; Calcutta,  1903 

Sree,  an  Episode  from  Sitaram  by  P.  N.  Bose  and  H.  Moreno  ; 
Calcutta,  1919 


Sen,  Sukumar: 

Middle  Bengali 
Chapman,  J.  A. : 

Cowell,  E.  B. : 

Majumdar,  N.  R. : 

Sen,  Sukumar: 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


421 


The  Poison  Tree  by  Miriam  S.  Knight  (with  a preface  by 
Edwin  Arnold)  ; London,  1884 
The  Two  Rings  by  R.  C.  Banerjee  ; Calcutta,  1897 
The  Two  Rings  and  Radharani  by  D.  C.  Roy;  Calcutta,  1919 
Y ugalanguriya  by  P.  N.  Bose  & H.  W.  B.  Moreno  ; Calcutta, 
1913 


2.  SARAT  CHANDRA  CHATTERJI 

Srikanta  by  K.  C.  Sen  & Theodoria  Thompson  and  with  an 
introduction  by  E.  J.  Thompson  ; Oxford  University 
Press,  1922 

Deliverance  by  Dilip  Kumar  Roy,  revised  by  Sri  Aurobindo  and 
with  a preface  by  Rabindranath  Tagore 

3.  PRAMATHA  CHAUDHURI 

Tales  of  Four  Friends  by  Indira  Devi  Chaudhurani,  Calcutta 

4.  SWARNA  KUMARI  DEVI 

To  Whom ? by  Sobhana  Devi;  Calcutta,  1907 

5.  MICHAEL  M.  S.  DUTT 

Sermista  by  the  author  ; Calcutta,  1859 

6.  MICHAEL  M.  S.  DUTT  AND  GIRISH  CHANDRA  GHOSH 

The  Meghnad  Badh  or  The  Death  of  the  Prince  of  Lanka. 
(A  Tragedy  in  five  Acts,  as  performed  at  the  National 
Theatre,  Beadon  Street.  Revised  and  Corrected  by  the 
Rev.  Lai  Behary  Dey)  ; Calcutta 

7.  RAMESH  CHANDRA  DUTT 

The  Lake  of  Palms  by  the  author;  London,  1902 

8.  TARAKNATH  GANGULI 

The  Brothers  by  Edward  Thompson  ; 1928 


422 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


9.  DINABANDHU  MITRA 
Nil  Darpan  ; Calcutta,  1861 

10.  PYARI  CHARAN  MITRA 

The  Spoilt  Child  by  G.  D.  Oswell  ; London,  1895 

11.  PRABHAT  KUMAR  MUKHERJI 

Stories  of  Bengali  Life  by  Miriam  S.  Knight  and  the  author  ; 
Calcutta,  1912 

12.  RABINDRANATH  TAGORE 

Broken  Ties;  London,  1916 
Collected  Poems  and  Plays ; London 
Four  Chapters  ; Calcutta 
Glimpses  of  Bengal ; London,  1921 
Gora  ; London,  1924 
Hungry  Stones;  London,  1916 
Mashi  and  Other  Stories ; London,  1918 
My  Boyhood  Days ; Calcutta. 

My  Reminiscences  ; London,  1917 

Red  Oleanders  ; London 

The  Home  and  the  World  ; London,  1919 

The  Parrot’s  Training  and  Other  Stories  ; London,  1918 

The  Wreck;  London,  1921 

Two  Sisters ; Calcutta 

13.  RAMNARAYAN  TARKARATNA 

Ratnavali  by  Michael  M.  S.  Dutt  ; Calcutta,  1858 


C.  MISCELLANEOUS 


Banerji,  R.  D. : Origin  of  the  Bengali  Script ; Calcutta 

University,  1919. 

Bose,  Buddhadev:  An  Acre  of  Green  Grass;  Calcutta, 

1948 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


423 


Chatterji,  S.  K. : 
Das  Gupta,  J. : 


Kabir,  Humayun : 
Ray,  A.  and  L. : 
Ray,  L. : 

Sen,  P.  R. : 

Sengupta,  S.  C. : 


Origin  and  Development  of  the  Bengali 
Language ; Calcutta  University,  1926 
A Critical  Study  of  the  Life  and  Novels 
of  Bankimchandra  ; Calcutta  University, 
1937 

Saratchandra  ; Bombay,  1942 
Bengali  Literature ; Bombay,  1942 
Challenging  Decade  ; Calcutta,  1953 
Western  Influence  in  Bengali  Literature  ; 
Calcutta  University,  1932 
The  Great  Sentinel  ; Calcutta,  1948 
Saratchandra;  Calcutta,  1945 


INDEX 


Abdul  Matin  158 
Abdul  Rahman  158 
Adbhutacarya’  120 
Advaita  Acarya  83,  87,  88,  91,  101 
‘Agama’  100 

Aitareya  Brahmana,  translation  of 
323 

Aitihasik  Citra  322 
■Akhdai’  174 
Alaol  153f 

Alice  in  Wonderland  244 
Alaler  Gharer  Dulal  230 
Aniruddha  117,  118 
Annals  of  Rajasthan  198,  208,  263 
Annadamahgal,  Annapurnamahgal 
166 

Anurupa  Devi  344,  348 
ApabhramSa  4,  14 
Arabian  Nights  190 
Arrakan,  the  poets  of  149ff 
‘Arya’  19 

Atarthi,  Premankur  334 
Austro-Asiatic  3 
‘Avadhuta’  31 
Avahattha  4.  14,  34 


Bagchi,  Dwijendranarayan  340,  355 
Bagchi,  Jatindramohan  340 
Balaramdas  107f 
‘Banaphul’  377 
Bandhu,  Bhaglrath  100 
Banerji,  Bibhutibhusan  363 
Banerji,  Charuchandra  334,  343 
Banerji,  GaneScandra  211 
Banerji,  Hemchandra  224ff 
Banerji,  Indranath  243 
Banerji,  Ishan  Chandra  227 
Banerji,  K.  M.  184f. 

Banerji,  Karunanidhan  340 
Banerji,  Kedarnath  364 
Banerji,  Manik  378 
Banerji,  Tarashankar  376 
Banerji,  Rakhaldas  341  f 
Banerji,  Rangalal  207ff,  228 
Banerji,  Sureschandra  334 
BangadarSan  233 

Bahgadarian  (New  Series)  313,  330, 
349 

‘Barah  inasa’  22 

Raral.  Akshav  Kumar  270f 


Barua,  Gunabhiram  197 

Basak,  Nilmani  190 

Basanta-Ray  306 

Basu,  Amritalal  253f 

Basu,  Buddhadev  368f 

Basu,  Jogendra  Chandra  2431 

Basu,  Manindralal  353,  360 

Basu,  Manomohan  20 1 f 

Basu,  NavTncandra  192 

Basu,  Rajnarayan  186 

Basu,  Rajshekar  365 

Basu,  Ramram  162,  179,  180,  181 

Basuray,  Nisikanta  351 

Basudev-Ghos  106f 

Batabyal,  Umeshchandra  324 

Batrachomuomakia  207 

Bengal  Gazette  183fn 

Bengal  Peasant  Life  241 

Bengal  Theatre  245 

Bengal  Vaishnavism  84,  93,  102 

Bengali  Dialects  8 

Bengali  Grammar  161,  178 

Bengali  Literary  Conference  337 

Bengali  Plays  translated  199 

Bengali  Script  9f 

Bengali  Writers  of  English,  early  204 
Bengally  Theatre’  191 
'Bhadali  Puran’  19 
Bhadrarjun  193 
Bhaduri,  Sisirkumar  352 
Bhagalpur  Group,  The  344 
BhagavadgTta  133,  182,  236 
Bhagavata-purana,  adaptation  and 
translation  of  69,  84,  113,  116,  133 
‘Bhagavatacarya’  112f 
Bhanita’  21 
‘Bhanu  ( sirpha)’  278 
Bharatcandra  Ray  159,  164 
Bharati  242,  276,  329,  333,  334 
BharatT  Group,  The  334,  342 
Bhatta,  Bibhutibhusan  334,  348 
Bhattacharya,  Gangakisor  183fn 
Bhattacharya,  Manik  344 
Bhattacharya,  Narayanchandra,  350 
Bhavananda  133 
Bhavantnath  118 
Bhramar  238 

BhuvaneSvar  Vacaspati  118 
Bhusuku  29,  48 
Bible,  The,  translation  of  179 
Birbal’  333 

Bisi.  Pramathanath  378 


426 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Blthika  300 
Bose  see  Basu 
Bowbazar  Theatre  202 
Brajabuli  5,  25,  115 
Brajdhgand  22 If 

Bride  of  Lammarmore,  The  242 
Brindabandas  96 
British  Writers  of  Bengali  184 
Brother  Bill  and  I 251 
Buddhistic  Sanskrit  12 


Caitanyacaritdmrta  97f,  102 
Calitbhasa  8 
Candidas  71,  77ff 

Candi,  the  legends  of  the  cult  ot  80ff 
CandTmafigal  120,  121ff 
Candracud  Aditya  133 
CandramukhT,  The  story  of  171 
Candraprabha  118 
Carey,  William  162,  179 
‘Carya’  songs  27,  32 
Captive  Ladie,  The  214 
Carey,  Felix  184 

Cathecismo  da  Doutrina  Christao  161 
‘CatuspadT’  20 
‘Caupal’  20,  23 

Chaitanya  69,  70,  77.  83,  84ff,  94f, 
105 

Chaitanya,  biographies  of  95ff 
Chakravarti,  Amiya  379f 
Chakravarti,  Biharilal  258ff 
Christian  Writers  161ff 
Civilization  in  India  241 
Citra  306f 

Chatterji,  Asok  354 
Chatterji,  Bankim  Chandra  232ff 
Chatterji,  Kirandhan  341 
Chatterji,  Manomohan  344 
Chatterji,  Phakirchandra  344 
Chatterji,  Sanjiv  Chandra  238f 
Chatterji,  Sarat  Chandra  344ff 
Chaudhuri,  Akshaychandra  228 
Chaudhuri,  Asutos  321 
Chaudhuri,  Jogeschandra  352 
Chaudhuri,  Kedarnath  306 
Chaudhuri,  Pramatha  321,  332f 
ChaudhuranI,  SaratkumarT  326 
Christian  prose,  early  161 
‘Chuti  Khan’  81 
College  of  Fort  William  180 
Commedy  of  Errors  188 
Cofessions  of  an  English  Opium- 
Eaters  237 
Cymbeline  194 
Cudamani,  Tarakcandra  196 
Cudamanidas  99 


‘Daker  Vacan’  19 
Dakghar  309 

Daksin  Ray,  the  legends  of  the  cult 
of  141ff 

Damodar-Dev  92 
Damodar-Sen  70 
DaSarathi  Ray  175f 
Das,  Dineshranjan  353,  359,  360 
Das,  Govindachandra  269f 
Das,  Jivanananda  371ff 
Das,  Sajanikanta  354,  376 
Das,  Upendranath  246f,  250f 
Dasgupta,  Sarajubala  350 
Datta,  Aksaykumar  186 
Datta,  Ajit  370 
Datta,  Satyendranath  335ff 
Daulat  ICazi  150 
De,  Bishnu  373 
Dey,  Lai  Behary  241 
Deuskar,  Sakharam  Ganes  324f 
‘Dhamali’  98 
Dhanyamanikya  70,  114 
‘Dhap’  176 

Dharma,  the  legends  of  the  cult  of 
40ff,  54ff 
Dharmadasa  16 

Dharrnamahgal  136,  144,  164  ; the 
story  of  57ff 
Dhendhana  33 
‘Dhruvapada’  21 
Disguise,  The  191 
‘Dodhaka’,  ‘Doha’  20 
Dohakosa  30,  35,  36 
Dom  Antonio  161 
Dravidian  3 
‘Duha’  23 

Duncan,  Jonathan  178 
Durgavar  131 
Dutt,  Girindramohini  271 
Dutt,  Michael  Madhusudan  197,  208 
212ff ; poems  of  216ff  plays  of 
197ff 

Dutt,  Ramesh  Chandra  240f 
Dutt,  Sashichandra  229 
Dutt,  Sudhindranath  374 


Edmundstone,  N.  B.  178 
Encyclopaedia  Bengalensis  184 
English  7 

English,  translation  from  205,  250, 
338,  343 

English  plays,  adaptation  of  194 
Enoch  Arden  240 
Esd  271 

Fables , Krilof’s  186 
FTruz  Shah  115 


INDEX 


427 


Flower  of  Rajasthan,  The  198f 

Forster,  H.  P.  178 

French,  translation  from  250 


Gadadhar  (Dev)  133 
‘Gaha’  20 
Gahgamahgal  123 
Gangaram  171 
Ganguli,  Manilal  333 
Ganguli,  Surendranath  344 
Ganguli,  Taraknath  239 
Ganguli,  Upendranath  344 
‘Gauracandrika’  101 
Gaurahgavijay  99 
Garibullah  157 
Gay’s  Fables  205 
Gitagovinda  16f,  27 
Giyasuddln  115 
Gopaldas  134 
Gopalsimha  119 
Gopalvijay  114 
Goraksanatha  45 
GosvamT,  Krsnakamal  176 
Gosvamins  of  Brindaban  91,  92 
Govind  Acarya  112 
Govindadas  Kaviraj  11  Of 
Govindadas  (CakravartI)  112 
Govindatllamrta  97 
Govindamahgal  114 
Govindamanikya  118 
Govindanarayan  119 
Grammar  of  the  Pure  and  Mixed  East 
Indian  Language  191 
Gunaraja-Khan  69 
Gupta,  G.  C.  193 
Gupta,  Isvarcandra  206f 
Gupta,  Jagadish  Chandra  362f 
Gupta,  Nagendranath  243 
Gupta,  Nalinikanta  354 
Gupta,  Ramnidhi  174 
Gupta,  Satyendrakrishna  351 
Ghanaram  CakravartI  (Kaviratna) 
160,  164 

Ghos,  Candrakall  194 
Ghosh,  Girishchandra  252f 
Ghose,  Kasiprasad  204,  205 
Ghosh,  Pratapchandra  239 
Ghoshjaya,  Sailabala  349 
Great  National  Theatre,  The  245 


Haidar,  Haridas  350 
Halhed,  N.  B.  178 
Hamlet  193 
Haridas  87,  94 
Harivamla  (Bengali)  133 
Havat  Mamud  157 


Hemasarasvati  118 
Heroidae,  Ovid’s  220 
Hindoo  Theatre  192 
Hindu  College  Writers  190 
Hindu  Mela  248 
Hindustani,  early  writers  of  148 
Historical  Poems  17 Iff 
Hitavadi  320 

Hitopadesa  120,  157,  206 
Hunger  367 

Hussain  Shah  70,  80,  81,  84,  115 


Indian  National  Congress  248 
Indira  Devi  344,  348 
Indo-Aryan  3f 

Iphigeneia  in  Aulis  198fn,  249 
Islam,  Kazi  Nazrul  355f 
Ivanhoe  232 


Jagannath  Sen  120 
‘Jagarana’  57 
jagatmahgal  133 
Jagatmanikya  118 
Jaisi  154 

Jal  Pratapcand  238 
Jalandhari  30 
Jamuna  ( Yamuna ) 345 
Jahganama  156,  157,  158 
‘Jaya’  65 
Jayadeva  17 
Jayadeva  1 1 8 
Jayananda  99f 
JTv  (Gosvamin)  91,  102 
‘Jnana-Dakinls’  93 
Jnanadas  107,  108 
Jones,  Sir  William  178 
Jorasanko  Theatre  199,  248 
Julius  Caesar  250 
Jyotirlsvara  43 


‘Kabi’  170,  171,  175 
‘Kabiwallah’  174 
Kabir  82 

Kabir,  Humayun  374 
Kalidasa  14,  18,  287 
Kali-kalam  354 
Kalikamahgal  140 
Kallol  353,  358,  359 
‘Kantale  KaminT’  61fn 
Kahci-Kaveri  209f 
Kanha  29,  30,  31f,  33,  35 
Kanhada-de  Prabandha  23 
Kanika  288 

Kaffram-Dev  (Das)  132 
'Kathaka’  23,  24 


428 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


‘Kathakata’  201 
Kathasaritsagar  186 
‘Kavicandra’  119 
‘Kavikankan’  123ff 
‘Kavi-karnapur’  95 
‘Kavlndra’  80 

Kavnidravacanasamuccaya  15,  17 
‘Kavisekhar'  112,  114 
Kavita  370 
Khalil  171 

King  of  the  Dark  Chamber,  The  308 

‘KTrttan’  104 

Krishna-worship  82f 

Krishna,  Child,  Worship  of  81  f 

Krsnadas  Kaviraj  97  f,  121 

Krsnadas  112 

Krsnahari  Das  173 

Krsnamangal  70,  113,  120 

Krsnaramdas  140ff 

Krttivasa  Pandita  67ff 

Ksemananda  134f 

Ksemendra  17 

Kumarasambhava,  translation  of  211 
Kuntalin  Prize  347 


L’avare  254 
La  Comedia  226 
Lake  of  Palm,  The  241fn 
Laksmi,  the  legends  of  the  cult  of 
145f 

Lalan  Fakir  295 

Laldas  164 

Laukika  15,  27 

Lawrence,  D.  H.  369 

Le  bourgeois  gentilhomme  250 

Les  Miserables  244 

Lebedeff,  Herasim  (Gerasim)  191 

Light  of  Asia,  The  252 

Literature  of  Bengal,  The  241 

Livsslaven  339 

Locandas  98f,  106 

Lor-Candrani  150  151ff 

Love  is  the  Best  Doctor  191 

Lui  29,  30,  33 


Macbeth  194 
Madhav  122f 
Madhav  Acarya  112 
Madhav  KandalT  116 
Madhavdev  1 16 
Madhavendra  Purl  83 
Madhu  Kan  176,  220 
Mahabharata,  adaptations  51,  67,  80, 
81,  115,  117,  118,  119,  132,  156, 
180,  231,  241,  252 
Maharastra-Puran  171 


Mahavastu  306,  307,  308 
Mahratta  Chief,  The  229 
Maitra,  Rabindranath  364 
Maitreya,  Akshaykuumar  324 
Majumdar,  Mohitlal  334,  35611 
Majumdar,  Saileschandra  325 
Majumdar,  Srischandra  243,  325 
Majumdar,  Surendranath  262f 
Majumdar,  Surendranath  328 
Maladhar  Vasu  69 
Malla  Kings  116,  119 
Mallik,  Kumudranjan  340 
Manakar  131 

Manasa,  the  legends  of  the  cult  of 
49 


Manasamafigal  80,  130f,  134f 
Manasavijaya  79 
Manasi  281 

Manasi  o Marmavanl  341 
Mahgala’  65 
‘Marigala’  Poems  56 
Manik  Datta  121f 
Manikram  GangulT  144,  164 
Manoel  da  Assumpsam  161 
Marathi,  translation  from  250 
Marriage  forcd  250 
Marshman,  J.  183fn 
Masik  Patrika  230 
Meghaduta,  translation  of  164 
Merry  Wives  of  Windsor  200 
Midsummer  Night’s  Dream,  A 249 
MTnanatha  43 
Mitra,  Dinabandhu  200f 
Mitra,  Peary  Chand  229ff 
Mitra,  Premendra  366 
Mitra,  Rajendralal  185,  207 
Mitra,  Woomesh  Chandra  196 
Moliere  253 

Mukherji,  Apareshchandra  351 
Mukherji,  Balaichand  377 
Mukherji,  Bibhutibhusan  363 
Mukherji,  Bhudev  229 
Mukherji,  Damodar  24 If 
Mukherji,  Madhusudan  186 
Mukherji,  Prabhatkumar  326ff 
Mukherji,  RajTblocan  182 
Mukherji,  Sailajananda  360ff 
Mukherji,  Saurindramohan  334,  343 
Mukherji,  Trailokyanath  244 
Mukunda  133 
Mukundadev  115 
Mukundaram-CakravartI  122ff 
Murari  Gupta  95,  105f 


Nabhaji  164 
‘Nacadi’  23 
Nada  30 


INDEX 


429 


Nag,  Gokulchandra  353,  359f 
Nandaram  132 
Narahari  CakravartI  164 
Narahari  Das  98,  106 
Naranarayan  115,  116,  117 
Narayan  349 
Narayan  Dev  1 30f 
Narottam  Das  101,  104,  108f 
Naslr  Mamud  134 
Natha  gurus,  the  legends  of  43ff 
National  Theatre  245 
‘Navakumar  Kaviratna’  338 
New  Arabian  Nights  244 
New  ‘Pancali’  170,  175,  176 
New  Testament,  The,  translation  of 
179 

Nidhu  Babu  174 

Nineteenth  Century  prose,  early  162 

Nirupama  Devi  344,  348f 

Nityananda  83,  87,  90,  91,  94,  101 

Nityananda  Acarya  120 

Nityananda  CakravartI  144 

Nityananda  Ghos  132 

Nizami  155 

Nobel  Prize  296 

'Nrtya-natya’  310 

Nusrat  Khan  80f 

Nusrat  Shah  115 

Nyayratna,  Ramgati  189 


Othello  194 


Pudmavati  154f 
Pahuda-doha  36 
Pal,  Bipinchandra  349 
Pal,  Tarinlcaran  194 
Pali  2 

Palit,  Lokendranath  321 
Pan  367 

'Pancali’,  ‘Pancalika’  24 
Pandawijay  132 
Paradise  Lost  205 
Paragal  Khan  80f 
Paramananda  Gupta  112 
Paramananda  Sen  95 
ParameSvar  Das  80 
Pari  cay  374 
Pdrijata-harana  24 
‘Pathaka’  24 
‘Payar’  20 

Persecuted,  The  185 
Persian  6 
Persian  Tales  190 
■Pihgal’  13,  24 
Pir  Bakhsh,  Samuel  197 
PTtambar  116 


Prabandha'  21 
Pradip  170f 
Pragati  354 
Prakrit  13 
Prakrtapaihgala  14 
Pravasi  329 

Prasannamayl  Devi  330 
Premabhakticandrika  109 
Premdas  100 
Priyadas  164 
Priyamvada  Devi  330 
Prose  Poems  300 

Puranas,  adaptation  of  60,  1 1 8f , 133 


Radhacaran  Gop  158 
Ramgopaldas  134 
Radhamohan  172 
‘Ragatmika’  36 
Ragaimika  Padavall’  79 
Raghu  Pandit  112 
Raghunath  115 
Raghunath  Das  95 
Raha,  Haran  Chandra  242 
Rajasekhara  16 
Rajmohan’s  Wife  232 
Rama-Worship  66 
Ram  Basu  175 

Ramayana,  adaptation  of  66,  67, 
69.  /O’,  80,  116,  118,  119,  120,  163, 
180.  241,  252 
Ramcandra  Kaviraj  109f 
Ramcandra  Khan  115 
Rame^var  Bhattacarya  159,  164 
Ramkrishna  Paramhamsa  147 
'Ramsarasvatl’  117 
Ramananda  Yatl  163 
Ramananda  Swam!  82 
Rasa’.  ‘Rasaka’,  ‘Rasau’,  ‘Raso’  22 
Rasselas  205 

Ray,  Annadashankar  375 

Ray,  Dwijendralal  v.  Roy,  D.  L. 

Ray,  Haralal  194 

Ray,  Hemendrakumar  334 

Ray,  Hemendralal  334 

Rav,  Jagadindranath  341 

Ray,  jogesh  Chandra  323 

Ray,  Kalidas  340 

Ray,  Kamini  27 1 f 

Ray,  Rajkrishna  25 If 

Ray,  Satischandra  331 

Raychaudhuri,  Sarojkumar  376 

Raychaudhuri,  Sukumar  341 

Raychaudhuri,  Upendrakishor  341 

Rekhaksar-varnamdla  268 

Rigveda,  translation  of  54,  241 

Rizzia  199,  216 

Robinson  Crusoe  186 


430 


HISTORY  OF  BENGALI  LITERATURE 


Robinson,  John  186 
Roer,  Edward  186 
Romance  of  Histoiy  229 
Romeo  and  Juliet  225 
Rowley  Poems  278 
Roy,  D.  L.  255f,  272,  355 
Roy,  Rammohan  182f 
Rtu-samhara  18 
Rup  (Gosvamin)  87,  91,  104 
Rupram  CakravartI  136ff 


Sabujpatra  332f 
Sadhan  151 

Sadhand  3201,  325,  329 
Sadhttbhasa  8 
Saduktiharnamrta  15 
Sahitya  329 
Saiyad  Hamza  157 
Saiyad  Martuza  134 
Saiyad  Sultan  156 
Sakuntala  188 
Samacardarpan  183 
Samajpati,  Sureshcbandra  329 
Samarsimha  116 
Samvadprabhakar  206 
Sanatan  (Gosvamin)  87,  91 
Sandes  341 
Sandhya.  330 
Sangit  Samaj  307 
Sanibarer  Cithi  354 
Sannyal,  Prabodhkumar  365 
Sanfivam  320 
Sankar  CakravartI  120 
Sanskrit  College  Writers  190 
Sanskrit  Drama,  translation  of  194, 
196,  250 
Santa  Devi  349 
Saraha  30,  38 
Saruf  171 

Sasthi,  the  legends  of  the  cult  of 
140f 

Sastri,  Haraprasad,  337,  341  f,  350 
Sastri,  Sivanath  242f 
Satyanarayan  ( Satyapir ) Pahcali  159 
Syamananda  101 
SekaSubliodaya  159 
Sen,  Devendranath  268f 
Sen,  Mohitchandra  273 
Sen,  Navin  Chandra  226f 
Sen,  Radhamohan  205 
Sen,  Samar  374 
Sengupta,  Achintyakumar  367f 
Sengupta,  Jatindranath  358f 
Sengupta,  Nareshchandra  351,  354, 
355  * 

Serampore  Mission  Press  180 
Sermista  197 


‘Siddhacarya’  31 

‘Siddhantasarasvatl’  118 

Sikdar,  Radhanath  230 

Sikdar,  Taracharan  193 

Siksastaka  89f 

Silvered  Rake,  The  199 

Simha,  Kallprasanna  189,  231 

Simha,  Jatindramohan  326 

Sltala,  the  legends  of  the  cult  of  144 

Sita  Devi  349 

Sivasahkirttan  164 

Sketch  on  the  Religious  Sects  of  the 
Hindus  187 
Smarandarpan  109 
Sobhabazar  Theatre  199 
‘Song  of  the  Road’  172 
‘Soratha’  20 
Srldh'ar  175 
Srlkara  Nandi  81 
Srlkrsnakinkar  133 
Srihrsnakirttana,  the  story  of  7 Iff 
Srikrsnajlvan  Das  120 
Srikrsnavijaya  69 
SrTnivas  Acarya  101 
Sufism  102 
Sukladhvaj  116,  117 
Suniti  Devi  353 
Svapnaprayan  264ff 
Svarnakumari  Devi  242,  271 
Svarup  Damodar  92 
Sylhet  Nagari  158 
Syamdas  (“DuhkhI”)  114 


Tagore,  Avanindranath  334f 
Tagore,  Balendranath  325 
Tagore,  Devendranath  186,  248f 
Tagore,  Dwijendranath  363ff 
Tagore,  Jatindranath  196fn 
Tagore,  Jyotirindranath  248ff 
Tagore,  Rabindranath  273£E ; essays 
and  miscellaneous  prose  writings 
316ff  ; novels  312ff  ; paintings  318f  ; 
plays  304ff  ; poems  279ff  ; Town 
Hall  reception  to  331  ; short 
stories  3 1 Off  ; songs  303 
Tagore,  Satyendranath  278 
Tagore,  Sudhindranath  328 
Tagore’s  songs  303f 
Tagore’s  theatre  195 
Tales  from  Shakespeare  186 
Tales  of  Yore  229 
‘Tappa’  174 

Tarkalankar.  Jaygopal  180fn 
Tarkalankar,  Madanmohan  205 
Tarkalankar,  Ramjay  181 
Tarkaratna,  Ramnarayan  194,  195 
Tarkaratna,  TaraSankar  189 


INDEX 


431 


Tattvabodhirii  Patriha  186,  187 
‘Tekchamd  Thakur’  229 
Tempest  225 
Tibeto-Burman  3 
Tilo  35 

‘Timothy  Penpoem’  213 
Trivedi,  Ramendrasundar  323 


Umapati  Upadhyaya  24 
Upadhyaya,  Brahmabandhav  330 


‘Vacaka’  23 
‘Vacanika’  25 
‘Vajradaka’  56fn 
‘Vajraglti’  34 

Vaishnavism  in  Kamarup  92 
Vahgasrt  376 
Vahgavasi  243,  320 
Varnaratnakara  23 
Vasu  v.  Basu 

VedantavagISa,  Anandacandra  186 
Vernacular  Literature  Committee 
185 

Vichitra  Hall  Meeting  355 
Vichitra  Sablia  334 
Vidyapati  24,  45,  77 
Vidyavinod,  Kshirod  Prasad  256f 
Vidyalankar,  Mrtyunjay  180,  181 


Vidyasagar,  Iswarchandra  187ff 
Vidyasundar  140,  166,  191  ; writers 
of  166fn  ; the  story  of  167 
‘Vijaya’  65 
Vijay  Gupta  80 
VikramorvaSiya  14 
Vina  252 
Vipradas  79 
Visarjan  306 
Visions  of  the  Past  214 
Visnu  Pal  135 
Visvambhardas  133 
ViSvasimha  116 
Visvanath  243 
Vividharthasarhgraha  185f 
Vivekananda  258 
‘Vrata-katha’  61fn 


Wilkins,  Charles  178 
Woman  in  White,  A 242 


Xrepar  Xaxtrer  Orth,  bhed  161 


‘Yamapata’  24 
Yasoraj  Khan  70,  115 
Yates,  William  180 
‘Yatra’  176f 


i-. 


M 


Sahitya  Akademi  is  the  National  Academy 
of  Letters  set  up  by  the  Government  of 
India  in  1954.  It  is  an  autonomous  body  whose 
policies  are  laid  down  by  a General  Council  which 
consists  of  representatives  of  the  various  Indian 
languages,  States  and  Universities.  Its  President 
is  Sri  Jawaharlal  Nehru  and  Vice-President, 
Dr.  S.  Radhakrishnan. 

Its  programme  is  directed  to  fostering  and  co- 
ordinating literary  activities  in  the  Indian  lan- 
guages— not  by  interfering  with  the  writer’s  liberty 
of  expression  or  presuming  to  guide  or  influence 
him,  but  by  encouraging  him  to  give  his  best  and  to 
make  it  available  to  readers  in  languages  other 
than  his  own.  Its  publications  are  mainly  in 
Indian  .languages.  The  publication  programme  in 
the  English  language  is  generally  limited  to  supply- 
ing basic  information  about  Indian  writers  and 
their  works. 


Z£Zfr£89t70CI 


sejjejqn  ^jSJOAjun  ©TO 


