UC-NRLF 


B    M    DE2    MDb 


GSFT  OF 
HORACE  W.  CARFENTEER 


THE 

HERITAGE  OF  INDIA 


Joint 


The  Right  Reverend  V.  S.  Azariah, 

Editors  \  ^^^^^P  ^^  Dornakal. 

J.  N.  Farquhar,  M.A.,  D.Litt.  (Oxon.) 


Already  published. 


The  Heart  of  Buddhism.     K.  J.  Saunders,  M.A. 

Asoka.     Rev.  J.  M.  Macphail,  M.A.,  M.D. 

Indian  Painting.     Principal  Percy  Browx,  Calcutta. 

Kanarese  Literature.     Rev.  E.  P.  Rice,  B.A. 

The  Samkhya  System.   A.  Berriedale  Keith,  D.C.L.,  D.Litt. 

Psalms  of  Maratha  Saints.     Nicol  Macxicol,  M.A.,  D.Litt. 


In  tJie  press. 


Hymns  of  the  Tamil  Saivite  Saints.     Kixgsbury  and  Phillips. 
The  Karma  Mimamsa.  A.  Berriedale  Keith,  D.C.L.,  D.Litt. 


Subjects  proposed  and  vohunes  under  preparation. 
SANSKRIT  AND  PALI  LITERATURE. 

Hymns  from  the  Vedas.     Prof.  A.  A.  Macdoxell,  Oxford. 
Anthology  of    Mahayana   Literature.      Prof.    L,   de  la    Vallee 

Poussix,  Ghent. 
Selections  from  the  Upanishads.     F.  J.  Westerx,  M.A.,  Delhi. 
Scenes  from  the    Ramayana. 
Selections  from  the  Mahabharata. 

THE  PHILOSOPHIES. 

An  Introduction   to    Hindu   Philosophy.     J.  N.   Farquhar,   and 

Johx  McKexzie,  M.A.,  Bombay. 
The  Philosophy  of  the  Upanishads. 
Sankara's  Vedanta.     A.  K.  Sharma,  M.A.,  Patiala. 
Ramanuja's  Vedanta. 
The  Buddhist  System. 

FINE  ART  AND  MUSIC. 

Indian  Architecture.     R.  L.  EwiXG,  B.A.,  Madras. 
Indian  Sculpture. 


Indian  Music,     K.  A.  Popley,  B.A.,  Erode. 

The  Minor  Arts.     Principal  Percy  Brown,  Calcutta. 

Iridiau  Coins.     C.  J.  Brown,  M.A.,  Lucknow. 

BIOGRAPHIES  OF  EMINENT  INDIANS. 

Gautama  Buddha.     K.  J.  Saunders,  M.A.,  Rangoon. 

Ramanuja. 

Akbar.     F.  V.  Slack,  M.A.,  Calcutta. 

Tulsi  Das. 

Rabindranath  Tagore.     E.  J.  Thompson,  M.A.,  Bankura. 

VERNACULAR  LITERATURE. 

The  Kurral.    _H.  A.  Popley,  B.A.,  Erode. 

Hymns  of  the  Alvars.     J.  S.  M.  Hooper,  M.A.,  Madras. 

Tulsi    Das's    Ramayana    in   Miniature.      G.  J.    Dann,    M.A., 

Patna. 
Hymns  of  Bengali  Singers.     E.  J.  Thompson,   M.A.,   Bankura, 
Gujarati  Hymns. 
Sufi    Hymns.     Prof.   R.    Siraj    ud    Din,    Lahore,    and   W.    R. 

Wilson,  I.C.S.,  Dera  Ghazi  Khan. 

HISTORIES  OF  VERNACULAR  LITERATURE. 
Bengali.     C.  S.  Paterson,  M.A.,  Calcutta. 
Gujarati. 

Marathi.     Nicol  Macnicol,  M.A.,  D.Litt.,  Poona. 
Tamil.     Francis  Kingsbury,  B.A.,  Bangalore. 
Telugu.     P.  Chenchiah,  M.A.,  Madras,  and  Raja  Bhujanga 

Rao,  Ellore. 
Malayalam.     T.  K.  Joseph,  B.A.,  L.T.,  Trivandrum. 
Sinhalese.     H.  S.  Perera,  B.A.,  Kandy. 
Urdu. 

NOTABLE  INDIAN  PEOPLES. 

The  Rajputs. 

The  Syrian  Christians.     K.  C.  Mammen  Mapillai,  Alleppey. 

The  Sikhs. 

VARIOUS. 

Modern   Folk    Tales,      W.    NoRMAN    Brown,    M.A.,    Ph.D., 

Philadelphia. 
Indian  Village  Government. 

Poems  by  Indian  Women.     Mrs.  Macnicol,  Poona. 
Classical  Sanskrit  Literature. 
Indian  Temple  Legends.     K.  T.   Paul,   B.A.,   L.T.,   Calcutta. 


EDITORIAL  PREFACE 

"  Finally,  brethren,  whatsoever  things  are  true, 
whatsoever  things  are  honourable,  whatsoever  things 
are  just,  whatsoever  things  are  pure,  whatsoever 
things  are  lovely,  whatsoever  things  are  of  good 
report ;  if  there  be  any  virtue,  and  if  there  be  any 
praise,  think  on  these  things." 

No  section  of  the  population  of  India  can  afford  to 
neglect  her  ancient  heritage.  In  her  literature,  philo- 
sophy, art,  and  regulated  life  there  is  much  that  is 
worthless,  much  also  that  is  distinctly  unhealthy  ;  yet 
the  treasures  of  knowledge,  wisdom,  and  beauty  which 
they  contain  are  too  precious  to  be  lost.  Every  citizen 
of  India  needs  to  use  them,  if  he  is  to  be  a  cul- 
tured modern  Indian.  This  is  as  true  of  the  Christian, 
the  Muslim,  the  Zoroastrian  as  of  the  Hindu.  But, 
while  the  heritage  of  India  has  been  largely  explored 
by  scholars,  and  the  results  of  their  toil  are  laid  out  for 
us  in  their  books,  they  cannot  be  said  to  be  really 
available  for  the  ordinary  man.  The  volumes  are  in 
most  cases  expensive,  and  are  often  technical  and 
difficult.  Hence  this  series  of  cheap  books  has  been 
planned  by  a  group  of  Christian  men,  in  order  that 
every  educated  Indian,  whether  rich  or  poor,  may  be 
able  to  find  his  way  into  the  treasures  of  India's  past. 
Many  Europeans,  both  in  India  and  elsewhere,  will 
doubtless  be  glad  to  use  the  series. 

The  utmost  care  is  being  taken  by  the  General 
Editors  in  selecting  writers,  and  in  passing  manuscripts 
for  the  press.  To  every  book  two  tests  are  rigidly 
applied:  everything  must  be  scholarly,  and  everything 
must  be  sympathetic.  The  purpose  is  to  bring  the 
best  out  of  the  ancient  treasuries,  so  that  it  may  be 
known,  enjoyed,  and  used. 


THE   HERITAGE  OF   INDIA  SERIES 

A  HISTORY  OF 

HINDI  LITERATURE 

BY 

F.  E.  KEAY,  M.A. 

(Church  Mi:,sionary  Society,  Jubbulpore) 

Author  of 
"Ancient  Indl\n  Education" 


ASSOCIATION   PRESS 
5,   RUSSELL  STREET,  CALCUTTA 

LONDON:  OXFORD  UNIVERSITY  PRESS 

NEW    YORK,    TORONTO,    MELBOURNE, 
BOMBAY,  CALCUTTA  AND  MADRAS 


PRINTED   AT   THE   WESLEY  AN   MISSION   PRESS, 
MYSORE    CITY,   1920. 


PKzosi 


CONTENTS 


Preface    . . 
Map 
I.     The  Hixdi  Language  and  its  Neighbours 
II.     A  Gener,\l  Survey  of  Hixdi  Literature  . 

III.  Early  Bardic  Chronicles  (1150—1400) 

IV.  Early  S/iay^^^  Poets  (1400— 1550) 


Page 
viii 

{Inset) 

1 


12 
19 


V.     The  Mughal  Court  and  the    Artistic    Influence 
IN  Hindi  Literature  (1550—1800) 


VI.     TuLSi  Das  and  the  Rama  Cult  (1550—1800) 

VII.     The  Successors  of  Kabir  (1550—1800)      .. 

VIII.     The  Krishna  Cult  (1550  -1800) 

IX.     Bardic  and  Other  Literature  (1550—1800) 

X.     The  Modern  Period  (from  1800) 

XI.     Some  General  Characteristics  of  Hindi  Literature  100 

XII.     Present  Position  and  Prospects  of  Hindi  Literature  104 

Bibliography        , .  . .  . .  . .  . .     108 

Index       ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..     110 


442866 


2         A  KIStQRY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

and  received  literary  culture,  such  for  instance  as  Pali. 
In  the  last  stage  of  the  Prakrits,  before  the  modern 
Indo-Aryan  languages  developed  from  them,  they  are 
known  as  Apabhrarh^as.  These  are  the  direct  parents 
of  the  modern  vernaculars  of  North  India,  namely, 
Hindi,  Punjabi,  MarathI,  etc.,  which  came  into  exis- 
tence somewhere  about  1000  a.d.,  though  the  date 
differs  considerably  in  the  case  of  different  languages. 
These  modern  languages  are  no  longer  synthetic  but 
analytic. 

Hindi.— It  is  m.ost  important  to  understand  clearly 
what  we  mean  by  Hindi,  as  the  word  is  often  used 
ambiguously.  It  is  often,  for  instance,  applied  in  a 
loose  sense  to  the  vernacular  speech  of  the  whole  of 
North  India  between  the  Punjab  and  Sindh  on  the 
West,  and  Bengal  on  the  East.  But  the  philological 
researches  of  scholars,  such  as  Sir  George  Grierson, 
have  shown  that  there  are  really  four  chief  languages 
in  this  area,  namely,  Rajasthanl,  Western  Hindi, 
Eastern  Hindi,  and  Biharl,  each  having  a  different 
parentage.  Biharl  really  belongs  to  a  group  of  lan- 
guages of  which  Bengali  is  another  member.  West- 
ern Hindi  is  closely  connected  in  origin  with  Panjabi. 
The  word  Hindi  is  also  often  used  to  denote  modern 
literary  High  Hindi  in  contradistinction  to  Urdu ;  but 
both  High  Hindi  and  Urdu  were,  as  will  be  shown  below, 
developed  from  a  dialect  of  Western  Hindi.  Hindustani 
(or  Hindostani)  is  also  a  name  used  sometimes  to  denote 
the  vernaculars  of  all  Hindustan,  that  is  the  country 
between  the  Punjab  and  Sindh  and  Bengal,  but  is  also 
sometimes  used  to  mean  the  simpler  speech  which  is 
the  li7igua  franca  of  modern  India,  and  of  which  both 
Urdu  and  High  Hindi  are  literary  developments. 

Scope  of  this  Book.— The  literature  whose  history 
will  be  described  in  this  book  will  include  RajasthanI, 
Western  Hindi,  Eastern  Hindi,  and  Biharl  literature 
but  not  Urdu.  It  may  seem  at  first  sight  somewhat 
arbitrary  to  group  together  the  literatures  of  these 
languages  which  are  believed  to  have  been  distinct  in 
development,  and  when  Western  Hindi,  for  instance,  is 


THE  HINDI  LANGUAGE  and  ITS  NEIGHBOURS  3 

more  closely  connected  in  origin  with  Punjabi,  and 
Bihar!  with  Bengali,  than  with  the  other  languages 
here  grouped  with  them.  Moreover  Urdu,  whose 
literature  is  here  excluded,  is  developed  from  a  dialect 
of  Western  Hindi.  But  the  justification  for  grouping 
these  literatures  together  lies  in  this,  that  w^hereas 
Punjabi  and  Bengali  and  Urdu  have  developed  modern 
literatures  which  are  proceeding  each  on  its  own  lines, 
the  languages  whose  literary  history  is  contained  in 
this  book  have  become  closely  connected  in  their 
literary  development.  In  the  areas  where  they  are 
spoken  "High  Hindi"  has  come  to  be  accepted  as  a 
literary  language  by  almost  all  those  who  do  not  use 
Urdu,  and  though  the  older  vernaculars  are  still  used 
for  poetical  compositions,  not  one  of  them  is  develop- 
ing a  separate  prose  literature  of  its  own.  Moreover, 
though  considered  by  scholars  as  distinct,  they  are 
closely  related  languages  which  have  mutually  influ- 
enced each  other,  and  the  literature  of  any  one  of 
these  vernaculars  is  to  a  large  extent  understood  by 
those  who  speak  one  of  the  others.  These  languages 
are  spoken  by  over  a  hundred  million  people. 

As  the  literature  dealt  with  in  the  following  pages 
is  really  connected  with  distinct  though  cognate  lan- 
guages it  is  more  accurate  to  describe  it,  as  Sir  George 
Grierson  has  done,  as  the  "  Modern  Vernacular  Litera- 
ture of  Hindostan."  But  for  the  sake  of  convenience 
and  to  avoid  circumlocution  it  will  generally  be  referred 
to  here  as  "Hindi  Literature."  The  bulk  of  it  is 
written  in  Western  Hindi  or  Eastern  Hindi.  Bihar! 
literature  is  not  very  extensive  and,  except  for  the 
lyrics  of  Vidyapati,  not  very  important.  Rajasthan! 
literature  mostly  consists  of  bardic  chronicles. 

Urdu  as  a  literary  language  has  an  important  point 
of  difference  from  Hind!  in  the  metres  it  employs. 
These  follow  Persian  models,  and  the  substance  of 
Urdu  poetry  is  largely  influenced  by  Persian  themes. 

Dialects.— The  chief  dialects  of  Rajasthani  are 
MewatI,  Marwarl,  Jaipur!,  and  Malvl.  Of  these 
Marwari  is  the  chief  literary  dialect.     It  is  also  called 


4         A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

Dingal,  and  in  this  connection  is  distinguished  from 
Pingal,  the  name  given  in  Rajputana  to  the  Braj  Bhasha 
dialect  of  Western  Hindi,  which  was  also  used  in  this 
area  as  a  literary  dialect. 

Wester?i  Hindi  has  as  its  principal  dialects,  Bangaru, 
to  the  west  of  the  Ganges  in  the  highlands  of  the 
South-Eastern  Panjab ;  Braj  Bhasha,  the  language 
spoken  in  Muttra  and  the  surrounding  district,  which 
is  the  chief  dialect  of  Western  Hindi  for  poetry  ; 
Kanauji  (very  similar  to  Braj  Bhasha),  which  is  spoken 
in  the  lower  part  of  the  central  Doab  and  the  country 
to  the  north  ;  BundelT,  in  Bundelkhand  and  a  good 
portion  of  the  Narbada  valley  in  the  Central  Provinces  ; 
and  another  dialect  spoken  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
Delhi  and  Meerut.  Delhi  being  for  a  long  time  the 
headquarters  of  the  Muhammadan  conquerors  of  North 
India,  it  was  from  the  dialect  of  this  district  that  the 
lingua  franca  of  the  Mughal  camp  originated. 
A  great  many  words  of  Persian  and  Arabic  origin  were 
introduced  into  this  dialect  as  well  as  those  of  PanjabI 
and  Rajasthani,  and  the  Persian  character  was  used 
for  writing  it.  The  word  "Urdu"  literally  means 
''Camp."  Urdu  was  the  camp  language.  Muham- 
madan influence  extended  its  use  far  and  wide,  and 
it  eventually  became  a  literary  language.  Modern 
''High  Hindi"  was  developed  from  Urdu  by  the 
exclusion  of  Persian  and  Arabic  words  and  the 
substitution  of  those  of  pure  Indian  origin,  Sanskrit  or 
Hindi.  The  name  Khari  Boli  {i.e.  "pure  speech") 
is  sometimes  used  by  Indian  scholars  both  for  the 
original  dialect  of  Delhi  and  Meerut,  and  for  the 
modern  High  Hindi  developed  by  Lallii  Ji  Lai  ;  but 
they  are  not  identical,  as  will  be  shown  later  in  a 
subsequent  chapter  when  the  circumstances  of  the 
formation  of  modern  literary  Hindi  are  related. 

The  dialects  of  Easter?i  Hi?idi,  from  North  to  South 
are  Avadhi,  Bagheli,  and  Chhattisgarhl.  Of  these  the 
chief  literary  dialect  is  Avadhi,  spoken  in  the  country 
of  Ayodhya  (Oudh).  Avadhi  is  also  known  as 
Baiswari. 


THE  HINDI  LANGUAGE  and  ITS  NEIGHBOURS  5 

Biharih^s  three  principal  dialects,  namely  Maithili, 
Bhojpuri,  and  Magahi.  Maithili  is  the  chief  literary- 
dialect,  and  practically  all  the  works  which  have  come 
down  to  us  are  in  this  dialect.  It  is  spoken  in  the 
region  which  formed  the  old  kingdom  of  Mithila,  that  is 
in  Bihar  north  of  the  Ganges. 

The  Hindi  Alphabet  and  Written  Character.— The 
alphabet  used  for  Hindi  and  the  other  languages  included 
with  it  in  this  book  is  the  same  as  that  of  Sanskrit,  and 
is  arranged  in  the  same  way,  that  is  on  phonetic 
principles.  One  or  two  of  the  Sanskrit  letters  are  not 
used  however  in  Hindi.  The  written  character  is 
generally  what  is  the  called  the  Devanagari  (or  Nagari), 
which  is  also  used  for  Sanskrit.  But  other  forms  are 
also  used.  Mahajanl  (or  Sarrafi)  and  Baniauti  are  only 
used  in  business.  They  are  both  modifications  of 
Kayathi  (or  Kaithi).  This  word  is  from  Kayath,  or 
Kayasth,  the  name  of  the  writer-caste  amongst  the 
Hindus.  Kayathi  character  was  originally  derived 
from  the  Devanagari  by  slight  alterations  which  better 
adapt  it  to  the  purpose  of  writing  quickly.  It  is  used 
chiefly  in  the  Eastern  portion  of  the  area  with  which 
we  are  concerned,  but  even  there  is  not  so  common  as 
Devanagari. 

Vocabulary.— The  vast  majority  of  words  used  in  the 
languages  we  are  considering  are  those  which  have 
come  down  from  the  original  Indo-Aryan  language 
through  the  long  development  of  the  centuries.  But 
in  the  language  of  to-day  there  are  often  found  words 
which  are  direct  borrowings  from  Sanskrit.  These  are 
called  Tatsavia  words  ("the  same  as  that")  to  dis- 
tinguish them  from  Tadbhava  words  ("  of  the  nature 
of  that"),  which  are  those  that  have  undergone  change 
in  the  long  process  of  development.  In  many  cases 
Tatsama  and  Tadbhava  forms  of  the  same  word  or 
root  co-exist  in  the  language,  such  as  Yogy  and  Jog 
("fit,  worthy").  Words  have  also  been  borrowed 
from  Persian.  We  find  these  even  in  the  works  of  the 
great  writers  such  as  Tulsi  Das,  and  though  some 
modern   authors   affect   to  write    "pure    Hindi,"    few 


6        A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

books  can  be  found  which  do  not  contain  some  words 
of  Persian  origin.  Some  Portuguese,  and  nowadays 
many  English  words,  have  also  found  their  way  into 
the  language. 

Hindi  Prosody.— There  is  probably  no  language  in 
which  prosody  has  been  more  elaborately  developed 
than  in  Hindi.  Its  system  is  derived  ultimately  from  the 
principles  which  govern  Sanskrit  poetry.  It  does  not, 
like  English,  depend  on  accent,  but,  like  the  classic 
poetry  of  Greece  and  Rome,  is  based  on  the  quantity 
of  the  syllables,  long  or  short.  But  rhyme  is  also 
used  almost  universally,  and  in  Hindi  poetry  a  rhyme 
means  that  not  only  the  last  syllable  of  a  line,  but  the 
last  two  syllables  at  least,  correspond  with  those  of 
another  line.  A  good  deal  of  liberty  is  allowed  in 
respect  of  orthography  and  even  of  grammatical  con- 
struction, but  the  rules  for  the  various  metres  are  very 
complicated.  The  result  however  in  the  hands  of  a 
skilful  poet  is  the  production  of  poetry  the  form  and 
rhythm  of  which  has  a  wonderful  charm  probably  not 
surpassed  in  any  language.  The  number  of  metres 
recognized  in  books  of  Hindi  prosody  is  very  large. 
A  few  only  of  the  principal  ones  can  be  mentioned 
here.  A  doha  (or  dohra)  is  a  couplet  each  line  of 
which  contains  twenty-four  matras  or  instants,  divided 
up  again  into  feet  according  to  a  recognized  plan. 
A  Mdtra  denotes  the  length  of  time  occupied  in 
the  utterance  of  a  short  vowel.  Long  vowels  and 
diphthongs  are  regarded  as  consisting  of  two  matras. 
The  doha  is  the  most  popular  and  frequent  of  all 
metres.  The  soratha  is  an  inverted  doha,  that  is  the 
second  half  of  each  line  of  the  doha  changes  place 
with  the  first  half.  The  chaupdl  ranks  with  the  doha 
in  popularity.  It  consists  of  four  lines,  each  of  which 
has  sixteen  matras.  Other  much-used  metres  are 
the  kiindaliya,  the  chhappai,  the  kdvya,  the  savaiya 
and  the  kavitta.  Many  metres  are  specially  used  in 
the  composition  of  verses  which  are  intended  to  be 
sung.  In  these  the  same  rhyme  is  often  continued 
throughout  all  the  lines  of  the  poem. 


THE  HINDI  LANGUAGE  and  ITS  NEIGHBOURS  7 


The  Family  of  Indo-Aryan  Languages. 

(The  languages  whose   literature   is  described  in   this  book   are 
printed  in^thick  type). 

(Modern 
Languages) 
Kashmiri 
Kohistani 
Lahndi 

(Western  Panjabi) 
Sindhi 
Gujarat! 
/      Prakrits  6  -  f  Panjabi 

(Vernacular)  H  ^^"^^^^"^  •  •  |  Western  Hindi     \ 

Rdjasthanl 
Pahari  )- 

Eastern  Hindi        1 
Bihari  / 

Bengali 
Oriya 
Assamese 
Marathi 


Indo-Aryan  ■{ 
Language 


Sanskrit 
(Literary) 


{ApahhramSas) 
Unknown 
Unknown 
Unknown 

Vrachadi 
Gaurjari 

Sauraseni 

Avanti 
Ardhamagadhi 

Magadhi 

Maharastri 


II. 

A  GENERAL  SURVEY  OF  HINDI 
LITERATURE 

After  the  death  of  KingHarsha  (646  or  647  a.d.), 
who  had  built  up  a  large  Empire  in  North  India,  there 
was  a  long  period  of  confusion  and  disorder.  The 
unity  of  Indian  History  is  lost  until  the  Muhammadan 
conquests  again  restored  a  government  strong  enough 
to  become  a  paramount  power.  During  this  period  the 
Rajput  clans  came  into  prominence  and  various  Rajput 
principalities  took  shape  which  were  destined  to  play 
an  important  part  in  subsequent  history.  These  king- 
doms were  often  at  war  with  one  another,  but  the  in- 
roads of  the  Muhammadans  from  the  West  frequently 
united  them  to  meet  the  common  foe.  Although  Kabul, 
the  Punjab,  and  Sindh  had  previously  fallen  into  the 
hands  of  the  Muhammadan  invaders,  the  real  conquest 
of  India  did  not  begin  till  1175  a.d.  when  Muhammad 
Ghori  commenced  his  attacks.  In  1191  the  Muham- 
madan progress  induced  the  Hindu  Kings  to  compose 
their  quarrels  and  form  a  great  confederacy  under 
Prithlraj  (also  called  Prithvlraj  or  Rai  Pithora),  the 
Chauhan  ruler  of  Ajmer  and  Delhi.  The  Hindus  were  at 
first  victorious  in  a  battle  at  Tarain,  but  in  the  following 
year  were  defeated  in  the  same  place  and  Prithvlraj 
was  captured  and  killed.  Delhi  was  soon  occupied  and 
the  Muhammadan  advance  continued  till,  under  Muham- 
mad-bin-Tughlak  in  1340,  it  attained  its  maximum 
extent.  But  though  many  Hindu  kingdoms  fell,  and 
many  strongholds  in  Rajputana  were  captured,  the 
Rajput  clans  reasserted  themselves  and  were  never 
completely  subdued.     Many  new  Kingdoms   were  set 


GENERAL  SURVEY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE  9 

up,  and  later  Muhammadan  sovereigns  often  found  it 
more  profitable  to  make  alliances  with  the  Rajput 
monarchs  than  to  attack  them. 

It  was  during  this  period  that  the  modern  ver- 
naculars of  India  were  taking  shape,  and  the  earliest 
modern  vernacular  literature  of  Hindustan  appeared  in 
the  form  of  the  bardic  chronicles  of  Rajputana.  The 
stirring  times  in  which  they  lived  produced  ample 
themes  for  the  royal  bards,  and  the  liberal  patronage 
of  monarchs  encouraged  their  labours.  Though  full 
of  panegyric  and  embellished  with  many  legends,  and 
therefore  not  to  be  taken  as  sober  history,  their  poems 
nevertheless  are  a  stirring  record  of  the  desperate 
struggles  between  the  Hindu  kingdoms  and  their 
Muhammadan  invaders,  and  of  the  heroism  and  chivalry 
which  such  a  period  called  forth.  The  greatest  name 
in  the  literature  of  this  period  is  that  of  Chand 
Bardal,  the  bard  of  Prithvlraj.  Contemporary  with 
Chand  was  Jagnayak,  while  a  famous^ bard  of  the 
middle  of  the  fourteenth  century  was  Sarang  Dhar, 
w^ho  sang  the  prowess  of  the  valorous  Hammir, 
Prince  of  Ranthambhor. 

The  rise  of  the  worship  of  Rama,  which  took  place 
about  the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century,  gave 
another  great  impetus  to  vernacular  literature.  One 
branch  of  Vaishnavas  worshipped  Vishnu  under  the 
form  of  Krishna  and  this  form  of  worship  had  long 
been  popular.  Now,  largely  owing  to  the  great 
influence  of  Ramananda,  others  made  Rama  their  prin- 
cipal object  of  w^orship.  A  later  development,  due  in 
some  measure  to  Muhammadan  influence,  and  in  which 
Kabir  was  the  first  great  teacher,  was  in  the  direction 
of  a  non-idolatrous  theism.  All  these  various  move- 
ments were  part  of  a  great  religious  revival  which 
was  widespread  amongst  the  people,  and  all  began  to 
use  the  vernacular  for  their  literature.  From  this 
time  on  the  vernacular  literature  was  mostly  dominated 
by  religious  ideals  and  almost  entirely  on  the  lines 
which  had  been  laid  down  by  the  Vaishnava  reformers. 
This    period    begins    about    1400    and    includes    such 


10       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

poets  as  Namdev,  Kablr,  Vidyapati,  Mira  Bal  and 
Malik  Muhammad.  The  earlier  bards  of  Rajputana 
wrote  in  a  time  of  transition,  using  a  language  which 
was  still  full  of  Prakrit  forms,  and  this  was  the 
period  of  the  infancy  of  Hindi  Literature.  But 
when  the  poets  of  this  next  period  composed  their 
works,  the  language  spoken  was  practically  the 
same  as  the  vernacular  speech  of  to-day  ;  and,  as  the 
earliest  authors  in  this  language,  they  had  to  feel  their 
way,  for  in  using  the  vernacular  for  their  poems 
they  were  making  a  great  venture.  This  was  the 
period  of  the  youth  of  Hindi  Literature. 

The  golden  age  of  the  vernacular  literature  of 
Hindustan  begins  about  1550.  The  Mughal  sovereigns 
not  only  established  a  strong  rule,  but  were  liberal 
patrons  of  literature  and  art.  Under  Akbar  (1556-1605), 
Jahangir  (  1605-1627  )  and  Shah  Jahan  (1627-1658)  the 
Muhammadan  rule  in  India  reached  its  highest  point  of 
outward  magnificence  and  this  was  also  the  period  of 
the  greatest  glory  in  Hindi  literature.  It  has  often 
been  pointed  out  how  it  synchronizes  with  the  Elizabe- 
than age  of  English  literature,  and  that  at  this  very  time 
England  and  India  first  came  into  real  contact  with 
each  other.  This  period  was  marked  by  the  introduc- 
tion of  an  artistic  influence  into  the  literature,  leading 
to  a  greater  polish  in  versification  and  form,  and  the 
first  attempts  to  systematize  the  art  of  poetry  by 
such  writers  as  Kesav  Das  and  others.  This  was 
the  age  of  the  greatest  stars  of  Hindi  literature — 
Tulsi  Das,  Sur  Das  and  Bihari  Lai,  as  well  as 
of  other  great  writers  like  the  Tripathi  brothers, 
Dev  Kavi  and  Senapati.  It  was  the  period  when 
the  Sikh  G?'a?ith  was  compiled  and  when  many  new 
sects  were  formed,  like  the  Dadupanthis,  which  pro- 
duced a  great  deal  of  religious  verse  of  a  high  order. 
The  end  of  the  period  however,  during  the  eighteenth 
century,  coinciding  with  the  time  of  the  decay  of  the 
Mughal  Empire,  was  a  time  of  decline  in  the  high 
quality  of  Hindi  literature,  and  does  not  contain  many 
writers  of  first-rate  excellence. 


GENERAL  SURVEY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE    11 

At  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century  a  new 
influence  came  into  Hindi  literature  through  contact 
with  the  culture  of  Europe.  In  the  eighteenth  century 
the  English  had  been  struggling  in  India  with  the  French 
for  mastery,  but  now  that  conflict  had  been  decided  and 
the  English  supremacy  was  further  established  by  the 
break  up  of  the  old  Mughal  Empire  and  the  weakening 
of  the  Maratha  power.  English  influence  now  began 
to  make  itself  more  and  more  felt  in  Indian  affairs,  and 
amongst  other  things  the  contact  of  India  with  the 
culture  of  the  West  had  the  effect  of  stimulating  many 
new  ideas,  w^hile  the  sense  of  security  which  freedom. 
from  internal  disorder  gave,  encouraged  the  native 
genius  of  India  to  reassert  itself.  Hence  there  began 
about  this  time  a  mighty  literary  renascence  in  India 
which  is  still  in  progress.  At  the  beginning  of  this  period 
Lallu  Ji  Lai  laid  the  foundation  of  modern  Hindi  prose 
and  also  created  the  literary  dialect  which  was  to  be  its 
principal  medium.  The  printing-press  now  began  to 
spread  literature  far  and  wide.  The  revival  of  Hindi 
poetry  was  led  by  Hari^chandra,  and  this  period  saw 
also  the  rise  of  the  Hindi  drama. 

The  principle  adopted  in  this  book  in  dividing  up  the 
literature  into  periods  is  as  follows.  First  of  all  the 
infancy  of  Hindi  literature,  connected  with  the  bardic 
chronicles,  is  described ;  and  after  that  a  new  period  is 
dated  from  each  point  where  an  important  new  influence 
begins  to  modify  the  literature.     These  periods  begin 

(1)  about  1400,  when  the  religious  influence  of  the 
Vaishnava  movements  began  to  affect  Hindi  literature  ; 

(2)  about  1550,  when  a  new  artistic  influence  makes 
itself  felt;  and  (3)  about  1800,  when  the  literature 
began  to  be  affected  by  the  modern  influence  which  came 
from  contact  with  the  West.  In  each  period  the 
literature  that  shows  the  new  spirit  in  its  fulness  will 
first  of  all  be  described  and  then  the  other  forms  in  turn, 
and  something  will  be  said  as  to  how  far  each  group  or 
each  writer  is  influenced  by  the  new  ideas. 


III. 

EARLY  BARDIC  CHRONICLES  (1150-1400) 

The  Earliest  Poets.— During  the  time  when  the 
Rajput  clans  were  establishing  their  power,  and  while 
they  were  struggling  with  the  Muhammadan  invaders, 
every  court  had  its  bards  who  celebrated  in  song  the 
valour  and  heroism  of  their  patrons  and  their  race. 
These  bards  belonged  to  guilds,  which  Vv^ere  also  castes, 
and  there  are  said  to  have  been  Charanas,  Bhatas, 
Sevagas  and  Pancholis.  The  Charanas  and  Bhatas 
both  claimed  Brahmanic  descent.  The  language  used 
at  first  by  these  bards  must  have  been  the  local  Prakrit, 
but  gradually  the  Prakrit  developed  into  the  modern 
vernacular.  A  number  of  bards  are  mentioned  by 
tradition  as  having  composed  poems  between  700  and 
1150  A.D.  The  chief  of  these  are  Pushya  (or  P^mda)^ 
Kedar,  A7ianya  Das,  Masaud,  Qiitub  AH  and  Akaram 
Faiz.  Their  work,  however,  has  not  survived  and  it 
is  therefore  impossible  to  say  whether  the  language 
they  used  is  to  be  reckoned  as  Prakrit  or  as  the  modern 
vernacular.  A  poetic  chronicle  of  the  ruling  family  of 
Mewar,  called  the  Khuma?i  Rasa,  which  dates  from  the 
sixteenth  century,  is  said  to  have  been  founded  on  a 
work  written  in  the  ninth  century,  but  no  fragment 
of  the  original  has  survived.  In  1143  a  certain 
Kumar  Pal  became  king  of  Gujarat,  his  capital 
being  at  Anhilwar.  In  1159,  under  the  influence  of 
the  Jain  scholar  Hemachandra  he  became  a  Jain,  and 
at  a  rather  late  date  Hemachandra  w^rote  a  romantic 
poem  in  Prakrit  entitled  Kuniara  Pala  Charit7'a.  An 
anonymous  bardic  chronicle,  called  by  the  same  name, 
in  the    early    speech    of    the    modern    vernacular    is 


EARLY  BARDIC  CHRONICLES  13 

said  to  date  from  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth 
century,  and  is  probably  a  free  adaptation  of  the 
Prakrit  poem.  Visala  Deva  (Bisal  Dev)  was  the 
king  of  Ajmer  in  1001  a.d.  when  Mahmiid  of 
Ghazni  made  one.  of  his  raids  into  India.  He  is 
celebrated  in  a  short  poem  called  Bisal  Dev  Raso,  the 
date  of  which  is  unknown,  but  which  has  been  con- 
sidered by  some  to  belong  to  the  thirteenth  century. 
Till  these  poems  are  dated  and  their  language  thoroughly 
examined  by  scholars,  it  is  not  possible  to  say  what 
evidence  they  give  as  to  the  date  when  the  modern 
vernacular  became  clearly  distinguished  from  the 
earlier  Prakrit,  and  as  even  the  Prithi  Raj  Raso, 
which  is  dated  in  1191,  is  said  by  such  an  eminent 
authority  as  Sir  Ge9rge  Grierson  to  be  ''  abounding  in 
pure  Apabhrarii^a  Sauraseni  Prakrit  forms,"  it  would 
be  rash  in  the  absence  of  further  evidence  to  place  the 
date  of  the  emergence  of  the  modern  vernaculars  of 
Hindustan  much  earlier  than  the  beginning  of  the 
twelfth  century. 

Chand  Bardai.— Prithi  Raj  (also  called  Prithvi  Raj 
or  Rai  Pithora),  who  was  born  1159  and  killed  in  1192, 
was  the  Chauhan  ruler  of  Ajmer  and  Delhi  at  the  time 
of  the  battles  of  Tarain,  in  the  second  of  which  he  was 
captured  and  afterwards  slain.  He  was  a  great  patron 
of  literature,  and  besides  Ananya  Das,  mentioned  above, 
his  court  was  also  attended  by  the  famous  bard  Chayid 
Bardai.  Chand  Bardai  belonged  to  an  old  family  of 
bards,  and  the  famous  poet  Sur  Das  is  said  by  some  to 
have  been  one  of  his  descendants.  He  came  to  the  court 
of  Prithi  Raj  and  was  appointed  as  his  minister  and  poet- 
laureate.  His  poetical  works  were  collected  by  Amar 
Singh  of  Mewar  in  the  seventeenth  century,  and  it  is 
probable  that  they  were  then  recast  and  partially 
modernized  though  still  full  of  archaic  language. 
Chand' s  chief  work  is  the  Prithi  Raj  Raso.  In 
this  famous  poem  of  sixty-nine  books  and  100,000 
stanzas  he  gives  the  life  of  his  patron  and  the 
history  of  the  time  in  which  he  wrote.  Chand  Bardai 
and  his  patron  were  both  killed  after  the  battle  of  Tarain 


14       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

in  1192.  Legend  and  fiction  are  mixed  up  with  history 
in  the  Prithi  Raj  Raso.  The  repeated  conflicts  related 
to  have  taken  place  between  Prithi  Raj  and  Sultan 
Shihabuddin  seem  to  be  quite  unhistorical,  and  the 
Mughals  are  brought  on  the  stage  thirty  years  before 
they  really  appeared  in  Indian  History.  It  is  therefore 
doubtful  whether  the  document  in  its  entirety  is  a  con- 
temporary poem,  but  the  language  used,  which  is 
transitional  in  character  and  abounds  in  strange  forms 
which  have  long  since  ceased  to  be  used,  makes  it  seem 
likely  that  the  original  core  of  the  poem  is  certainly 
the  work  of  Chand  BardaT,  and  that  it  is  one  of  the 
earliest  poems  in  Hindi  which  have  survived.  Owing 
to  the  difficulty  of  the  language  it  is  a  poem  not  easy 
to  read  even  for  scholars,  but  those  who  have  studied 
it  have  a  high  opinion  of  its  literary  merits.  It  is  of 
immense  value  from  the  point  of  view  of  linguistic 
study. 

The  following  lines  are  taken  from  the  twentieth 
book  of  Chand' s  epic.  The  fair  Padmavati,  daughter 
of  Padam  Sen,  an  opponent  of  Prithi  Raj,  had  heard  of 
the  nobility  of  Prithiraj,  as  he  had  of  her  beauty,  and 
when  her  marriage  was  arranged  with  another,  she  sent 
a  message  by  a  parrot  to  Prithiraj  to  come  and  rescue 
her.  Prithiraj  came  with  an  arm.y  to  seize  her  as  his 
bride  : — 

"  Watching  the  road  in  the  direction  of  Delhi, 
Happy  was  she  when  the  parrot  returned, 
Hearing  the  news,  glad  were  her  eyes  ; 
The  maiden  was  elated  with  the  tokens  of  love, 
She  tore  off  the  dirty  clothes  from  her  body, 
Purified,  and  anointed,  and  adorned  herself  with  robes, 
Called  for  priceless  jewels  (for  her  person)  from  head  to  foot, 
Arrayed  with  the  tokens  of  the  king  of  love. 
Filling  a  golden  tray  with  pearls, 
Lighting  a  lamp  she  waved  it  round, 
Taking  her  confidante  with  her,  boldly  the  maiden 
Goes  as  Rukmini  went  to  meet  Murari  ; 
Worshipping  Gauri,  revering  Sankar  ; 
Circumambulating  and  touching  their  feet. 
Then  on  seeing  King  Prithiraj, 

She  smiled  bashfully,  hiding  her  face  through  shame. 
Seizing  her  hand,  putting  her  on  horseback. 


EARLY  BARDIC  CHRONICLES  15 

The  King,  the  Lord  of  Delhi,  took  her  away. 

The  rumour  spiead  that,  outside  the  city. 

They  are  carrying  off  Padmavati  by  force. 

Drums  are  beat,  there  is  saddling  of  horse  and  elephant, 

They  ran,  armed,  in  all  directions. 

'  Seize  !  Seize  !  '  shouted  each  warrior. 

Rage  possessed  the  heroes  and  their  king. 

When  King  Prithiraj  was  going  in  front 

With  all  his  army  behind  him, 

There  the  horsemen  advancing  arrived  ; 

King  meeting  King,  the  warriors  joined  in  battle, 

When  Prithiraj  the  King  turns  rein, 

The  heavens  stand  still,  the  world-serpent  shakes. 

The  chiefs  and  heroes  all  look  (awful)  as  death, 

Eager  for  blood  on  rushes  the  King, 

The  bows  let  fly  countless  arrows, 

The  deadly  blades  draw  blood. 

From  the  sweat  of  the  wounds  of  the  heroes  on  the  field, 

A  thick  stream  flows,  and  dyes  the  sand. 

As  warriors  of  the  bardt  smote. 

On  the  field  fell  heads  and  headless  trunks  of  the  foe. 

The  foe  fell  on  the  field  of  battle  ; 

Turning  his  face  towards  Delhi, 

Having  won  the  battle,  went  Prithiraj, 

All  the  chiefs  were  glad. 

He  took  Padmavati  with  him 

Rejoicing,  King  Prithiraj."* 

Chand  Bardai's  son  Jalhan  is  also  said  to  have  been 
a  poet  and  possibly  some  parts  of  the  Raso  were  com- 
posed by  him. 

Jagnayak.— y<2^;^J>'«>^  (or  Jagnik)  was  a  contempor- 
ary of  Chand  Bardai  and  attended  the  court  of  Paramardi 
(Parmal)  of  Mahoba  in  Bundelkhand,  who  was  a  rival 
of  Prithiraj.  His  works  have  not  _survived,  unless  we 
have  in  the  Mahoba  Khand  (or  Alha  Khand)^  which 
has  been  described  as  a  spurious  canto  of  Chand's  epic, 
a  poem  which  was  written  by  Jagnayak.  This  poem 
has  been  handed  down  by  oral  tradition  and  exists  in 
many  recensions  which  differ  from  one  another  both  in 
language  and  subject  matter.  It  is  still  sung  by 
professional  singers  in  India  and  the  language  is 
always  modernized  to  suit   the  dialect   of  the  reciter. 

*  Translation  by  Mr.  John  Beames,  in  Vol.  38  of  the  Journal  of  the 
Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal  (1869),  pp.  152,  153. 


16       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

The  heroes  of  this  poem  are  Alha  and  Udal  (or 
Udan).  Portions  of  one  recension  have  been  trans- 
lated into  English  ballad  metre  by  Mr.  Waterfield, 
under  the  title  of  "  The  Nine-Lakh  Chain  or  the  Maro 
Feud."  A  few  stanzas  will  give  some  idea  of  this 
poem.     It  relates  Alha's  victory  over  King  Jambay  : — 

The  warriors  staggered,  they  scattered  and  broke, 

In  hope  their  lives  to  save  ; 
When  Jambay  saw  they  fled,  he  spoke, 

And  his  elephant  onward  drave. 

"  Mahoba's  champion,  Devi's  son, 
Now  settle  thy  cause  with  me  ; 
Alive  from  the  field   shall  go  but  one. 
So  turn  by  turn  strike  we." 

"  I  may  not  strike,  by  the  Chandel  law  ; 
Do  thou  strike  first,  O  King  "; 
Then  a  good  red  bow  did  Jambay  draw. 
And  fitted  the  notch  to  string. 

The  aim  was  good,  the  string  did  twang, 

Fast  did  the  arrow  fly  ; 
Across  the  howda  Alha  sprang, 

And  the  shaft  went  whizzing  by. 

Then  his  javelin  fjew  as  near  they  drew, 

Now  how  may  Alha  bide  ? 
Queen  Sarada's  care  at  his  right  hand  there 

She  turned  the  spear  aside. 

*'  Now  hear,  Banaphar,"  Jambay  spake, 
"  Twice  hast  thou  foiled  my  blow  ; 
In  peace  thy  way  to  Mahoba  take, 
For  thrice  thou  'scap'st  not  so." 

But  Alha  there  his  breast  made  bare. 
And  did  to  the  Raja  cry  ; 
"  No  part  of  a  Kshatri's  trade  it  were, 
From  the  battle  trench  to  fly." 

"  There  are  homes  in  heaven  stand  ready  for  all, 
To-morrow  if  not  to-day  ; 
And  if  in  Maro  this  tide  shall  fall. 
My  name  shall  live  for  aye." 

*'  One  chance  is  left  thee.  King,  to  save. 
And  see  thou  miss  no  more  "  ; 
Then  drew  the  King  his  shining  glaive, 
And  thrice  he  smote  full  sore. 


EARLY  BARDIC  CHRONICLES  17 

No  hurt  on  Alha's  body  happ'd, 

His  shield  was  lifted  high  ; 
At  length  the  sword  of  Jambay  snapp'd, 

Then  wist  he  death  was  nigh. 

*  I  have  hewn  down  elephants  with  this  blade, 
And  lopped  their  limbs  away  ; 
Its  master's  need  has  it  now  betrayed, 
My  life  is  lost  to-day!  " 

"Now,  Raja,  now  my  stroke  take  thou," 
And  his  elephant  on  he  drove  ; 
Howda  to  howda,  tusk  to  tusk. 
Close  met  the  champions  strove. 

Then  Alha  forward  dash'd  his  shield, 

With  the  boss  he  dealt  a  blow  ; 
The  elephant's  driver  was  hurl'd  to  the  field, 

And  he  waver'd  to  and  fro. 

Then  Jambay  drew  his  dagger  keen, 

Long  time  their  steel  they  plied  ; 
On  Alha's  body  no  hurt  was  seen, 

**  Now  bind  the  foe,"  he  cried. 

Pachsawad  whirl'd  his  iron  chain. 

Dashed  the  howda  to  the  ground  ; 
Soon  Alha  lighted  on  the  plain. 

And  fast  his  arms  he  bound.* 

Sarang  Dhdir.—Sdra?ig  Dkar,  a  bard  who  flourished 
in  the  middle  of  the  fourteenth  century,  is  said  to  have 
been  a  descendant  of  Chand  Bardai.  He  is  the  reputed 
author  of  two  poems  known  as  the  Hammir  Rasa  and  the 
Hamniir  Kavya,  which  are  chronicles  of  the  royal 
house  of  Ranthambhor.  The  valour  of  Hammir  in  his 
struggle  against  the  emperor  Ala-ud-din,  at  whose 
hands  he  received  his  death,  is  very  famous.  Sarang 
Dhar  is  also  the  author  of  an  anthology  of  Sanskrit 
lyric  stanzas  called  the  Sar?igadhara  Paddhati,  which 
was  published  in  1363. 

These  early  bards  had  a  long  line  of  successors, 
some  of  whom  will  be  mentioned  later  on.  Their 
chronicles  are  valuable  not  only  as  literature,  but  as  a 
record  of  the  times  in  which  they  lived.     Like  the  old 

1  Calcutta  Review,  Vol.  63  (1876),  pp.  414  ff. 


18       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

chronicles  of  other  lands  they  contain  much  that  is 
legendary  and  unreliable  as  history,  but  the  light  which 
they  throw  on  the  period  in  which  they  were  written  is 
nevertheless  of  very  great  value. 

Other  Poets  of  this  Period.— One  or  two  other  writers 
who  are  considered  to  belong  to  this  period  may  also 
be  mentioned.  These  are  Bhupati,  who  wrote  at  the 
end  of  the  thirteenth  century,  and  Nulla  Singh,  Mulla 
Daud,  and  Aniir  Khusro,  who  flourished  about  the 
fourteenth  century.  The  latter  was  a  Persian  poet  to 
whom  Hindi  verses  are  also  ascribed.  There  is  also  a 
certain  Gorakhnath  who  is  regarded  as  the  founder  of 
an  order  of  Yogis,  and  as  the  author  of  both  Sanskrit 
and  Hindi  works.  Some  doubt  has  been  expressed  as 
to  his  being  a  historical  person  at  all,  but  it  seems 
likely  that  he  was,  and  that  he  lived  about  1200  a.d. 
The  Hindi  works,  which  include  one  in  prose,  are 
almost  certainly  not  written  by  him.  They  are  pro- 
bably the  works  of  his  followers.  They  have  been 
placed  by  some  as  early  as  the  middle  of  the  fourteenth 
century,  but  their  date  at  present  must  be  regarded  as 
very  uncertain. 


IV. 

EARLY  BHAKTI  POETS  (1400-1550) 

The  Vaishnava  Revival.— A  new  development  in  Hindi 
literature  was  caused  by  the  growth  of  the  Vaishnava 
movement  in  North  India.  The  Muhammadan  con- 
quest had  been  a  time  of  great  difficulty  for  the  Hindu 
religion.  Scholars  had  been  dispersed,  idols  broken, 
and  temples  cast  down.  But  though  Hinduism  suffered 
severely  it  was  not  destroyed,  and  a  great  impetus  was 
to  be  given  to  the  Vaishnava  form  of  the  Hindu  faith. 
The  Vaishnava  religious  movements  of  North  India  at 
this  time  fall  into  three  groups,  Ramaite,  Krishnaite, 
and  deistic.  But  all  the  various  sects  have  many 
points  in  common.  A  personal  God,  who  is  full  of 
love  and  pity  for  his  devotees,  is  the  object  of  worship, 
and  towards  him  devotion  (bhakti)  is  demanded  as  the 
most  important  requirement  from  those  who  w^ould 
obtain  release.  The  movement  as  a  whole  was  a  revolt 
against  the  cold  intellectualism  of  Brahmanic  philosophy 
and  the  lifeless  formalism  of  mere  ceremonial.  It  was 
essentially  a  popular  religious  movement,  and  this  is 
emphasised  by  its  use  of  the  vernacular,  rather  than 
Sanskrit,  in  the  vast  amount  of  literature  it  produced. 
This  constitutes  the  importance  of  the  movement  from 
the  point  of  view  of  Hindi  literature. 

Ramananda's  Predecessors.— It  is  generally  agreed 
that  it  was  Ramananda  who  gave  the  greatest  impulse 
to  the  religious  revival  in  North  India  about  this  time, 
but  there  were  others  who  were  his  predecessors  and  the 
harbingers  of  the  movement.  The  Adi  Granth  of  the 
Sikhs,  compiled  by  Guru  Arjun  in  1604,  has  preserved 
some  of  the  earliest  specimens  we  possess  of   Hindi 


20       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

l)oetvy  oithedkaktz  movement.  Among  those  devotees 
(bhagats)  of  whose  compositions  fragments  have 
been  preserved  in  the  Granth,  and  who  are  earlier  than 
Ramananda,  are  Sadna  and  Namdev,  The  Granth 
contains  also  a  fragment  of  a  certain  Jaidev  who  has 
sometimes  been  identified  with  Jayadeva,  the  author 
of  the  Sanskrit  Gita  Govinda,  who  lived  towards  the 
end  of  the  twelfth  century.  But  the  identification  is 
more  than  doubtful  and  the  date  and  the  circumstances 
of  this  Jaidev  are  unknown. 

Sadna,  who  probably  flourished  about  the  beginning 
of  the  fifteenth  century,  is  said  to  have  been  born  in 
Sindh  and  to  have  been  a  butcher  {kasai).  He  gave  up 
his  trade  and  became  a  devotee.  Only  a  couple  of  his 
hymns  are  preserved  in  the  Granth. 

Namdev  belonged  to  the  Maratha  country  and  was  a 
devotee  of  Vithoba  at  Pandharpur,  He  probably  flourished 
between  about  1400  and  1430.  By  caste  he  was  a  tailor, 
and  according  to  the  legends  preserved  about  him  he 
showed  great  devotion  in  his  boyhood,  but  afterwards 
for  a  time  lived  an  evil  life  in  company  with  a  band 
of  dacoits.  He  repented,  however,  and  became  a  great 
devotee.  He  is  the  author  of  a  considerable  number  of 
Marathi  hymns,  but  he  was  a  noteworthy  religious 
leader  in  the  north  of  India  also,  and  wrote  many 
verses  in  Hindi.  A  considerable  number  of  hymns 
composed  by  him  are  in  the  Granth.  Namdev  is  a 
most  interesting  figure  and  probably  one  of  the  first 
leaders  of  the  new  religious  revival  which  began  about 
this  time  in  North  India. 

Ramananda,  who  lived  probably  from  about  1400  to 
1470,  was  an  ascetic  who  somewhere  about  the  year 
1430  began  to  preach  that  the  eternal  God  should  be 
worshipped  under  the  name  of  Rama,  that  Rama  alone 
was  the  source  of  release  from  the  evils  of  transmigra- 
tion, and  that  this  should  be  sought  by  fervent  devotion 
{bhakti)  towards  him.  The  way  had  already  been 
prepared  by  the  preaching  of  others  on  similar  lines, 
and  Ramananda  evidently  met  with  such  success  that 
he  took  up  his  residence  in  Benares  and  made  that  the 


EARLY  BHAKTI  POETS  21 

headquarters  of  the  new  movement.  He  was  undoubt- 
edly one  of  the  most  important  Hindu  religious  leaders 
in  North  India,  for  not  only  is  the  sect  of  Ramanandis, 
which  acknowledges  him  as  its  direct  founder,  still 
very  large,  but  a  great  many  other  sects  owe  their 
first  impulse  to  the  movement  he  initiated,  or  else 
were  founded  by  those  who  were  originally  his  dis- 
ciples or  members  of  his  sect.  As  a  writer,  however, 
Ramananda  does  not  hold  an  important  place.  Hymns 
in  Hindi  purporting  to  have  been  written  by  him  are 
still  preserved,  one  of  them  in  the  Adi  Grafith.  In 
this  hymn  he  seems  to  be  declining  an  invitation  to  go 
and  worship  Vishnu  in  a  temple,  on  the  ground  that 
God  is  all-pervading  and  that  he  has  found  God  in  his 
heart.  It  must  not  be  inferred  from  this,  however, 
that  Ramananda  forbade  idolatry  though  he  may  have 
criticised  it.  He  preached  a  vivid  faith  in  the  reality 
of  the  one  personal  God,  spiritual  and  invisible,  whom 
he  called  Rama,  but  no  break  was  made  with  idolatry, 
the  Hindu  pantheon,  or  the  old  mythology.  Nor  did 
Ramananda  throw  over  the  system  of  caste.  It  is 
true  that  like  other  bhakti  teachers  before  his  day  he 
was  willing  to  acknowledge  that  even  outcastes,  by 
means  of  bhakti,  could  obtain  release,  and  that 
amongst  his  personal  disciples  there  are  said  to  have 
been  not  a  only  a  Siidra,  a  Jat,  and  an  outcaste,  but 
even  a  Muhammadan  weaver  and  a  woman.  But 
there  is  no  evidence  that  he  modified  the  social  rules 
of  caste  in  the  slightest.  From  the  point  of  view  of 
Hindi  literature  the  significance  of  the  movement 
initiated  by  Ramananda  was  in  depending  for  its 
literature  almost  entirely  on  the  vernacular.  The 
followers  and  successors  of  Ramananda  practically 
gave  up  the  use  of  Sanskrit,  and  this  of  course  gave 
a  great  impetus  to  the  development  of  Hindi  literature. 
Ramananda's  Disciples.— The  immediate  personal 
disciples  of  Ramananda  were,  according  to  tradition, 
twelve  in  number,  and  Hindi  compositions  of  some 
of  these  have  been  preserved.  Pipa  was  the  Raja 
of   Gagaraungarh  and  is  said  to   have   been  born   in 


22       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

the  year  1425.  On  becoming  a  disciple  of  Ramananda 
he  abdicated  his  sovereignty  and  became  a  mendicant. 
Dhand,  the  Jat,  is  said  to  have  been  born  in  1415.  Se7i 
was  a  barber  at  the  court  of  the  Raja  of  Rewah.  Of 
these  three  disciples  of  Ramananda  only  a  few  hymns 
have  been  preserved  in  the  Adi  Grarith.  Bhawa7ia7id, 
another  disciple,  is  the  reputed  author  of  an  explana- 
tion in  Hindi  of  the  Vedanta  system  of  philosophy  in 
fourteen  chapters  called  the  Amrit  Dhar.  Rai  Das 
was  the  cha7nar  disciple  of  Ramananda,  and  attained 
great  celebrity  as  a  devotee.  More  than  thirty  of  his 
hymns  have  been  preserved  in  the  Adi  Graiith.  The 
following,  in  which  he  describes  his  relation  to  God,  is 
a  specimen : — 

**  If  Thou  art  a  hill,  then  I  am  Thy  peacock  ; 
If  Thou  art  the  moon,  then  I  am  Thy  chakor ; 

0  God,  if  Thou  break   not  with  me,  I  will   not  break  with 
Thee  ; 

If  I  break  with  Thee,  whom  shall  I  join  ? 
If  Thou  art  a  lamp,  then  I  am  Thy  wick  ; 
If  Thou  art  a  place  of  pilgrimage,  then  I  am  Thy  pilgrim. 

1  have  joined  true  love  with  Thee  ; 
Joining  Thee  I  have  broken  with  all  others. 
Wherever  I  go  there  is  Thy  service  ; 
There  is  no  other  Lord  like  Thee,  O  God. 

By  worshipping  Thee  Death's  noose  is  cut  away. 
Rav  Das  singeth  to  obtain  Thy  service."^ 

Kabir.— The  greatest  of  the  disciples  of  Ramananda, 
whether  as  a  poet  or  a  religious  leader,  was  the 
Muhammadan  weaver  Kabir  (1440-1518).  According 
to  legend  he  was  really  the  son  of  a  Brahman  widov/, 
who,  in  order  to  conceal  her  shame,  exposed  the  infant 
in  the  Lahar  Tank  near  Benares,  where  it  was  dis- 
covered by  Niru,  the  Muhammadan  weaver,  and  his 
wife  Nima,  and  brought  up  by  them  as  their  own  child. 
Another  version  gives  an  entirely  miraculous  account 
of  his  birth.  Even  as  a  boy  he  is  said  to  have  given 
offence  both  to  Hindus  and  Muhammadans.  The  former 
he  angered  by  putting  on  a  sacred  cord  though  of  low 
caste,  and  the  latter  by  using  Hindu   names   for   God 

1  Macauliffe,  "  The  Sikh  Religion,"  Vol.  VI.  p.  331. 


EARLY  BHAKTI  POETS  23 

though  he  was  a  Muhammadan.  He  was  taunted  also 
with  being-  a  nigura,  that  is  one  without  a  giiru.  Desir- 
ing to  remove  this  reproach  he  wished  to  become  a 
disciple  of  Ramananda,  but  feared  that  he  might  not 
be  accepted.  He  therefore  had  recourse  to  a  stratagem. 
Lying  down  upon  the  steps  of  the  ghat  which  he  knew 
Ramananda  visited,  he  hoped  that  in  the  dark  the  gurtc 
might  stumble  over  him,  and  that  probably  then  no 
words  would  rise  so  readily  to  his  lips  as  the  mantra  of 
his  order.  This  hope  was  realised  and  Ram.ananda 
uttered  the  words  ' '  Ram,  Ram. ' '  Kabir  claimed  that  he 
had  been  initiated  and  Ramananda  admitted  the  claim. 
After  this  initiation  Kabir  is  said  to  have  visited  his  gtiru 
regularly,  but  though  a  disciple  of  Ramananda  he  went 
far  beyond  his  master  in  his  teaching.  Whether  he  was 
originally  a  Muhammadan  or  not,  there  is  no  doubt  that 
Muhammadan  influence  can  be  traced  in  his  ideas. 
He  w^as  the  founder  of  the  deistic  movement  in  India. 
He  uses  the  name  Rama  for  God  (as  well  as  other 
names  such  as  Hari,  Govind,  Allah,  etc.)  and  has 
Vedantic  ideas,  but  he  rejected  entirely  the  doctrine  of 
incarnations,  and  with  no  unsparing  voice  condemned 
idolatry  and  most  of  the  Hindu  ceremonies  and  rites. 
The  influence  of  Kabir,  both  direct  and  indirect,  has  been 
enormous.  Not  only  is  the  sect  of  Kabirpanthis,  which 
claims  him  as  its  founder,  still  very  numerous,  but 
many  other  sects  owe  to  him  the  leading  ideas  of  their 
theology.  Many  of  these  sects  will  be  mentioned 
later  on  in  connection  with  the  literature  which  their 
leaders  produced.  There  are  many  legends  but  not 
very  much  reliable  information  about  the  life  of  Kabir. 
His  interest  in  religious  questions  to  the  neglect  of  his 
weaving  seems  to  have  brought  him  sometimes  into 
conflict  with  his  family,  but  even  more  trouble  came 
to  him  from  the  opposition  of  both  Hindus  and 
Muhammadans,  who  were  offended  in  turn  at  his 
denunciation  of  many  of  their  practices.  He  seems  to 
have  been  persecuted  by  the  Emperor  Sikandar  Lodi, 
after  being  denounced  by  both  Hindus  and  Muham- 
madans   as    a    troublesome    person,  and  finally   was 


24       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

exiled  from  Benares  by  the  Emperor's  orders. 
He  went  to  live  at  Maghar  in  the  Gorakhpur  district, 
where  he  ended  his  days. 

The  poems  composed  by  Kabir  are  very  numerous. 
It  is  probable  that  he  himself  did  not  commit  them  to 
writing,  but  that  they  were  remembered  and  treasured 
up  by  his  disciples.  Various  collections  of  poems 
ascribed  to  Kabir  have  come  down  to  us,  but  there  is  a 
strong  probability  that  there  is  much  in  these  collec- 
tions that  is  not  hi^s  genuine  work.  One  collection  is  to 
be  found  in  the  Adi  Gra^ith  of  the  Sikhs,  which  was 
compiled  in  1604.  Another  collection  is  contained  in 
the  Bijak  (literally  "invoice,"  or  **  account-book,"  or 
perhaps  "  a  document  by  which  a  hidden  treasure  can 
be  located").  This  work  was  produced  in  connection 
with  the  Kabir  Panth  after  the  death  of  Kabir  probably 
as 'a  book  of  instruction.  It  is  often  said  to  have  been 
compiled  by  Bhago  Das,  one  of  Kabir's  immediate 
disciples,  about  the  year  1570.  The  Bijak  is  a  collec- 
tion of  verses  in  various  metres.  The  Ramainls  are 
short  doctrinal  poems.  The  Sabdas  are  similar  but  in 
a  different  metre.  The  Chauntlsa  is  an  exposition  of 
the  religious  signification  of  the  consonants  of  the 
Nagari  alphabet.  In  the  thirty  verses  of  the  Vipra- 
matisi  an  attack  is  made  on  the  orthodox  system  of  the 
Brahmans.  The  Kaharas,  Vasanias,  Bells,  Chancharls, 
Bir hulls  and  Hindolas  are  religious  verses  in  the  metres 
so  named.  The  collection  ends  with  over  four  hundred 
Sakhis,  or  short  apophthegms,  each  consisting  of  a 
single  doha,  and  the  Sayar  Bijak  Ko  Pad,  which  sums  up 
the  whole  matter.  Neither  the  verses  contained  in  the 
Adi  Grayith  nor  those  in  the  Bijak  can  be  regarded  in 
their  entirety  as  the  work  of  Kabir.  Besides  these 
there  are  a  very  large  number  of  Sakhis  (of  which 
over  five  thousand  have  been  collected)  and  other 
verses  ascribed  to  Kabir  which  are  still  current  in 
India.  At  the  Kabir  Chaura,  which  is  the  headquarters 
of  the  Kabir  Panth  at  Benares,  there  is  said  to  be 
a  collection  of  the  works  of  Kabir,  called  the  Khas 
Gra7ith,  which  includes  about  twenty  different  books. 


EARLY  BHAKTI  POETS  25 

Many  of  these  are  evidently  the  works  of  disciples  or 
successors,  though  few  of  them  have  been  published. 
The  dialect  used  in  the  compositions  contained  in  the 
Bijak  is  the  old  Avadhi  dialect  of  Hindi.  The  poetry 
of  Kabir  is  rough  and  unpolished,  and  the  style  and 
language  make  it  not  always  easy  to  understand. 
Words  are  often  loosely  strung  together  with  very 
little  regard  to  grammatical  accuracy,  and  the  sentences 
are  often  elliptical  and  full  of  colloquialisms.  The 
frequent  play  on  words  and  the  obscurity  of  many  of 
the  similes  used  increase  the  difficulty.  But  in  spite 
of  all  this  Kabir  must  be  given  a  very  high  place  in 
Hindi  literature.  The  amazing  boldness  wuth  which 
he  attacked  the  religious  practices  of  his  day, 
tolerating  no  shams  and  demanding  reality  in 
all  those  who  were  seeking  after  God,  and  the 
moral  earnestness  of  his  appeal  to  men  to  put  the 
things  of  God  first,  would  in  itself  give  his  work  an 
outstanding  importance.  But  besides  this  the  stinging 
satire  which  he  has  at  his  command,  and  his  ability  to 
produce  striking  epigrams,  and  the  fascinating  rhythm 
of  his  verse,  all  combine  to  give  a  wonderful  power  to 
his  poetry.  He  has  been  called  the  pioneer  of  Hindi 
literature  and  the  father  of  all  Hindi  hymns ;  but  though, 
in  view  of  the  predecessors  we  have  already  mentioned, 
such  a  claim  can  hardly  be  allowed,  it  is  certainly  true 
to  say  that  it  was  he  more  than  any  others  before  him 
who  popularized  Hindi  religious  literature  and  vastly 
extended  its  influence,  and  Hindi  literature  of  the  same 
type  subsequent  to  Kabir  owes  to  him  a  great  debt. 

Translations  of  his  poems  give  very  little  idea  of 
the  charm  and  force  of  his  style,  but  a  few  extracts 
may  help  to  give  some  idea  of  the  kind  of  literature  he 
produced.  Here  are  one  or  two  of  the  Sakhis  ascribed 
to  him  : — 

"  Everything  is  from  God  and  nothing  from  His  servant; 

He  can  change  a  mustard-seed  into  a  mountain  and  a  mountain 
into  a  mustard-seed." 

"  The  house  of  God  is  distant,  as  is  a  tall  palm  ; 

He  who  climbs  to  the  top,  tastes  of  heaven  ;  he  who  falls  is  ground 
in  pieces." 


26       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

"  Consider  the  parable  of  the  sieve  ;  it  suffers  the  flour  to    pass,  but 
retains  the  husk  ; 
So  men  let  pass  what  is  good  and  swallow  what  is  useless."^ 

The  lines  below  illustrate  Kabir's  theological  stand- 
point : — 

If  God   be  within  the  mosque,   then    to   whom    does  this  world 

belong  ? 
If  Ram  be  within  the  image  which  you  find  upon  your  pilgrimage, 

then  who  is  there  to  know  what  happens  without  ? 
Hari  is  in  the   East  ;   Allah  is  in  the  West.     Look   within  your 

heart,  for  there  you  will  find  both  Karim  and  Ram  ; 
All  the  men  and  women  of  the  world  are  His  living  forms. 
Kabir  is  the  child  of  Allah  and  of  Ram  :     He  is  my  guru,    He  is 

my  Pir."2 

One  more  extract  will  illustrate  the  poetical  merit 
of  Kabir's  verse  : — 

No  one  knew  the  mystery  of  that  weaver  :  who  came  into  the  world 

and  spread  the  warp. 
The  earth  and  sky  are  the  two  beams  :  the  sun  and  moon   are   two 

filled  shuttles. 
Taking  a  thousand  threads  he  spreads  them  lengthways:  to-day  he 

weaveth  still,    but  hard  to  reach  is  the  far-off  end. 
Says    Kabir,  Joining  Karma  with  Karma,   woven  with   unwoven 

threads,  splendidly  the  weaver  weaves.^ 

The  son  of  Kabir,  named  Kamal,  is  also  said  to 
have  been  a  poet,  and  his  couplets  to  have  been  made  in 
refutation  of  the  sayings  of  his  father  whom  he  seems 
to  have  opposed.  Hence  arose  the  proverb,  '*An  unlucky 
family  was  Kabir's,  in  which  the  son  Kamal  was  born." 

Nanak. — Of  the  many  movements  which  owe  their 
inspiration  to  the  teaching  of  Kabir  none  is  more 
important  than  the  religion  of  the  Sikhs,  which  was 
founded  in  the  Punjab  by  Nanak  (1469-1538).  It  is 
said  that  Nanak,  when  twenty-seven  years  of  age,  met 
Kabir,  and  the  influence  of  the  latter  is  seen  not  only  in 
the  large  number  of  Kabir's  compositions  afterwards 
included  in  the  Sikh  Gra7ith,  but  in  the  doctrines  of 
Nanak,  which  are  very  similar  to  those  of  Kabir,   and 

^  Translations  from  Westcott's  "Kabir  and  the  Kabir  Panth," 
pp.  95,  86,  93. 

2  Translation  by  Sir  Rabindranath  Tagore,  "Kabir's  Poems,"  69. 
^  Btjak.   Ramaini  28.   (Rev.  Ahmad  Shah's  translation.) 


EARLY  BHAKTI  POETS  27 

undoubtedly  owe  a  great  deal  to  him,  though  Nanak 
stands  nearer  to  Hinduism  than  Kabir.  Nanak  made 
journeys  in  several  directions  accompanied  by  his 
disciple  Mardana,  who  played  the  rebeck  while  Nanak 
sang.  His  hymns  and  other  poetical  utterances  were 
in  a  mixture  of  Punjabi  and  Hindi.  Although  he  is  not 
equal  to  Kabir  as  a  poet,  yet  his  verse  is  clear  and 
pithy,  and  not  lacking  in  poetical  excellence.  Nanak 
soon  gathered  a  number  of  followers  and  one  of  his  most 
famous  compositions  is  the  Japji,  a  collection  of  verses 
which  he  arranged  for  their  daily  use  in  praise  and 
prayer.  Besides  this  he  composed  a  very  large  number 
of  other  verses  which  are  included  in  the  Sikh  Grayith. 
The  following  is  one  verse  from  the  Japjl. — 

"There  is  no  limit  to   God's   praises;    to  those  who  repeat  them 

there  is  no  limit. 
There  is  no  limit  to  His  mercy,  and  to  His  gifts  there  is  no  limit. 
There  is  no  limit  to  what  God  seeth,  no  limit  to  what  He  heareth. 
The  limit  of  the  secret  of  His  heart  cannot  be  known. 
The  limit  of  His  creation  cannot  be  known  ;  neither  His  near  nor 

His  far  side  can  be  discovered. 
To  know  His  limits  how  many  vex  their  hearts. 
His  limits  cannot  be  ascertained  ; 
Nobody  knoweth  His  limits. 

The  more  we  say,  the  more  there  remains  to  be  said. 
Great  is  the  Lord,  and  exalted  is  His  seat. 
His  exalted  name  is  higher  than  the  most  exalted. 
Were  any  one  else  ever  so  exalted, 
Then  He  would  know  that  exalted  Being  : 
How  great  He  is  He  knoweth  Himself. 
Nanak,  God  bestoweth  gifts  on  whom  He  looketh  with  favour  and 

mercy. "^ 

The  Krishna  Cult.— The  followers  of  Ramananda, 
as  well  as  those  of  Kabir  and  Nanak,  generally  gave 
the  name  of  Rama  to  the  Supreme  God,  though  other 
names  were  sometimes  used.  The  followers  of 
Ramananda  accepted  Rama  as  an  incarnation,  and 
permitted  idolatry,  but  the  doctrine  of  incarnation  and 
the  use  of  images  were  both  rejected  by  Kabir  and 
Nanak.     It  was  indeed  still  bhakti  to  Rama  which  they 

^  Japjl,  XXIV;  Translation  by  Macauliffe,  "The  Sikh  Religion," 
Vol.  I.  208. 


28       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

preached,  but  to  Rama  as  the  invisible  God,  not  as  an 
incarnation.  There  was  however  another  group  of 
Vaishnavas  who  worshipped  God  under  the  form  of 
another  incarnation,  namely  Krishna.  Like  the 
Ramaite  cult  the  worship  of  Krishna  also  had  its 
beginnings  in  the  centuries  before  this  period,  but 
about  this  time  received  a  new  impetus,  which  was 
marked,  as  well  as  furthered,  by  the  use  of  the 
vernacular  for  its  religious  literature.  Sometimes  it 
was  the  child  Krishna  who  was  especially  thought  of 
as  an  object  of  worship,  but  more  often  it  was  that 
aspect  of  Krishna's  life  which  was  concerned  with  his 
relation  to  Radha  and  the  other  Gopis  that  received 
most  attention. 

Radha-Krishnaite  verse  goes  back  to  the  Sanskrit 
Gttd  Gozmida  of  Jayadeva  in  the  twelfth  century,  and  as 
early  as  the  fourteenth  century  Krishna  hymns  appeared 
in  Bengali.  Between  1450  and  1480  there  flourished  a 
Gujarat!  poet  named  Narsingh  Mehta  who  wrote 
Radha-Krishna  lyrics  in  that  language.  He  is  also 
credited  with  having  composed  similar  verses  in  Hindi. 

Vidyapati  Thakur,  who  lived  at  Bisapi  in  the 
Darbhanga  district  of  Bihar  in  the  middle  of  the 
fifteenth  century,  is  one  of  the  most  famous  Vaishnava 
poets  of  Eastern  India.  He  was  the  founder  of  a 
school  of  master-singers  which  afterwards  spread  all 
over  Bengal.  Little  is  known  of  his  life,  but  he  was 
the  author  of  several  Sanskrit  works.  His  chief  fame 
however  rests  on  his  sonnets  in  the  Maithili  dialect  of 
Bihari.  In  these  he  uses  the  story  of  the  love  which 
Radha  bore  to  Krishna  as  an  allegory  to  describe  the 
relation  of  the  soul  to  God.  Many  of  these  were  after- 
wards adapted  to  Bengali  and  made  popular  by 
Chaitanya,  and  Vidyapati  has  had  many  imitators. 
His  poems  possess  great  literary  merit  and  he  has  had 
a  great  influence  on  the  literature  of  the  Eastern  part 
of  India. 

Umdpati  was  probably  a  contemporary  of  Vidyapati, 
and  also  wrote  Krishnaite  songs  both  in  in  Maithili 
and  in  Bengali. 


EARLY  BHAKTI  POETS  29 

Mira  Bai — About  the  same  time  as  Vidyapati,  or 
perhaps  a  little  later,  there  flourished  in  the  west  of 
Hindustan  a  writer  whose  poems  helped  to  popularize 
the  Krishna  cult  in  that  region.  This  was  Mird  Bai 
(fl.  1470)  the  most  famous  of  Hindi  poetesses.  There 
has  been  a  great  deal  of  confusion  as  to  her  date  and 
the  details  of  her  life.  But  it  seems  that  she  was  a 
princess  of  Rajputana  who  was  married  to  Bhojraj,  the 
heir-apparent  of  Kumbha,  Maharana  of  Mewar.  Her 
husband  died  before  he  came  to  the  throne,  and 
Kumbha  was  put  to  death  by  another  son  Udekaran 
(or  Uda),  who  seized  the  throne  in  1469.  Mira 
Bai,  who  was  a  devotee  of  Krishna  even  from  her 
childhood,  seems  already  to  have  given  offence  to 
the  family  of  her  husband  by  her  refusal  to  con- 
form to  their  particular  form  of  Hindu  worship,  and 
her  frequent  lavish  expenditure  in  the  entertainment 
of  sadhus,  and  when  her  brother-in-law  Udekaran  had 
gained  the  throne,  he  persecuted  her  so  much  that  she 
fled  from  Chitor  and  became  a  disciple  of  Rai  Das, 
the  chamar  disciple  of  Ramananda.  This  must  have 
been  about  the  year  1470.  She  is  said  to  have  been 
especially  devoted  to  that  form  of  Krishna  known  as 
Ranchhor,  and  a  legend  says  that  one  day  while 
w^orshipping  with  great  devotion  she  was  taken  up  into 
the  image  and  disappeared.  Rai  Das,  as  a  follower  of 
Ramananda,  was  a  worshipper  of  Rama,  and  it  is  not 
clear  why  Mira  Bai  chose  him  as  her  guru,  or 
whether  Rai  Das  in  any  way  modified  her  views, 
but  he  is  mentioned  two  or  three  times  in  the  poems 
ascribed  to  her.  The  lyrics  of  Mira  Bai  are  occupied 
with  intense  devotion  to  Krishna,  though  in  some  of 
them  she  uses  the  name  of  Rama  also  for  God.  They 
are  written  in  the  Braj  Bhasha  dialect  and  are 
graceful  and  melodious  verses.  There  are  many 
similar  lyrics  in  Gujarat!  which  are  also  ascribed  to 
Mira  Bai.  The  following  is  the  translation  of  one  of 
her  lyrics  : — 

"  God  {i.e.  Krishna)  hath  entwined  my  soul,  O  Mother, 
With  His  attributes,  and  I  have  sung  of  them. 


30       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

The  sharp  arrow  of  His  love  hath  pierced  my  body  through  and 

through,  O  Mother. 
When  it  struck  me  I  knew  it  not ;    now  it  cannot  be  endured,  O 

Mother. 
Though  I  use  charms,  incantations,  and  drugs,  the  pain  will  not 

depart. 
Is  there  any  one  who   will   treat   me  ?     Intense   is   the  agony,  O 

Mother. 
Thou,  O  God,  art  near  ;  Thou  art  not  distant;  come  quickly  to 

meet  me. 
Saith  Mira,  the  Lord,  the  mountain-wielder,  who  is  compassionate. 

hath  quenched  the  fire  of  my  body,  O  Mother. 
The   Lotus-eyed   hath   entwined  my  soul   with   the  twine  of    His 

attributes."^ 

Vallabhacharya.— The  spread  of  the  worship  of 
Krishna,  however,  owed  most  to  Vallabhacharya.  He 
was  the  son  of  a  Brahman  from  South  India  and  was  born 
at  Benares  in  1479.  He  established  an  image  of 
Krishna  at  Gobardhan  in  the  Braj  country,  and  from 
this  as  his  headquarters  spread  the  doctrine  of  his  sect 
in  many  parts  of  India.  He  wrote  many  works  in 
Sanskrit,  but  nothing  in  Hindi,  though  the  movement 
he  initiated  has  produced  many  Hindi  writers.  He 
died  in  1531  and  was  succeeded  as  leader  of  the  sect  by 
his  son  Vitthalnath. 

Vitihahiath,  who  lived  from  about  1515  to  1585,  not 
only  became  the  leader  of  the  sect  which  his  father  had 
founded  but  is  also  credited  with  having  been  a  Hindi 
writer.  Besides  Hindi  verses  the  genuineness  of  which 
is  doubtful,  he  is  also  said  to  have  been  the  author  of 
a  short  prose  work  called  Mandan  dealing  with  the 
story  of  Radha  and  Krishna,  which  must  be  one  of  the 
earliest  extant  prose  writings  in  Hindi.  It  is  written  in 
Braj  Bhasha.  Four  of  the  disciples  of  his  father 
Vallabhacharya,  together  with  four  of  his  own  disciples 
became  the  celebrated  Ashta  Chhap,  who  are  mentioned 
in  a  later  chapter. 

Divisions  of  the  Bhakti  Movement.— During  this  period 
(1400-1550)  the  various  bhakti  movements  of  Hindu- 
ism   fall  into    three    groups,   namely    (1)   those    who 

^  Translation  by  Macauliffe,  "  The  Religion  of  the  Sikhs,"  Vol. 
VI.  356. 


EARLY  BHAKTI  POETS  31 

worshipped  Rama  as  an  incarnation  and  practised 
idolatry,  (2)  those  who  worshipped  God  under  the 
name  of  Rama,  but  rejected  idolatry  and  the  doctrine 
of  incarnation,  and  (3)  those  who  worshipped  Krishna. 
In  each  group  during  this  period  Hindi  literature  came 
to  be  used  and  was  one  of  the  great  factors  which 
helped  to  spread  the  various  movements,  while  they 
on  the  other  hand  helped  to  stimulate  the  growth  of 
Hindi  literature.  Almost  the  whole  of  subsequent 
Hindi  literature  is  impressed  with  one  or  another  of 
these  forms  of  Vaishnava  doctrine. 

Malik  Muhammad  Jayasi.— The  bardic  chronicles  had 
a  much  more  local  currency  than  the  religious  verse 
described  above,  and  outside  Rajputana  contributed 
little  to  the  development  of  vernacular  literature,  but 
one  remarkable  poem  of  this  period  seems  to  show 
how  even  the  poetry  of  the  bards  had  been  affected  by 
the  religious  revival.  This  was  the  Padumavati  of 
Malik  Muhammad  Jayasi  who  flourished  about  1540. 
Malik  Muhammad  was  a  Muhammadan  devotee, 
but  was  acquainted  with  Hindu  lore,  and  profoundly 
affected  by  the  teaching  of  Kabir.  He  was  much 
honoured  by  the  Raja  of  Amethi,  who  attributed 
the  birth  of  a  son  to  the  prayers  of  the  saint,  and  his 
tomb  is  still  to  be  seen  at  Amethi.  Besides  the  Padu- 
mavati, he  wrote  also  a  religious  poem  called  the 
Akharavat.  In  the  Padumavati  he  tells  the  story  of  a 
certain  Ratan  Sen  who,  hearing  from  a  parrot  of  the 
great  beauty  of  Padumavati,  or  Padmini,  journeyed 
to  Ceylon  as  a  mendicant  and  returned  to  Chitor  with 
Padmini  as  his  bride.  Ala-ud-din,  the  ruling  sovereign 
at  Delhi,  also  heard  of  Padmini  and  endeavoured  to 
capture  Chitor  in  order  to  gain  possession  of  her. 
He  was  unsuccessful,  but  Ratan  Sen  was  taken  prisoner 
and  held  as  a  hostage  for  her  surrender.  He  was  after- 
wards released  from  captivity  by  the  bravery  of  two 
heroes.  He  then  attacked  king  Dev  Pal,  who  had  made 
insulting  proposals  to  Padmini  during  his  imprisonmicnt. 
Dev  Pal  was  killed,  but  Ratan  Sen,  who  was  mortally 
wounded,  returned  to  Chitor   only    to   die.      His   two 


32       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

wives,  Padmini  and  another,  became  sail  for  him,  and 
while  this  was  happening  Ala-ud-din  appeared  at  the 
gates  of  Chitor,  and  though  it  was  bravely  defended, 
captured  it.  At  the  end  of  the  poem  Malik  Muhammad 
explains  it  all  as  being  an  allegory.  Chitor  is  the 
body  of  man,  Ratan  Sen  is  the  soul,  Padmini  is  wis- 
dom, Ala-ud-din  is  delusion,  the  parrot  is  the  guru, 
and  so  on,  and  thus  a  religious  character  is  given  to 
the  story.  Malik  Muhammad's  poem  is  based  on  the 
facts  connected  with  the  actual  siege  of  Chitor,  which 
took  place  in  1303,  but  he  has  considerably  modified 
the  details  and  borrowed  also  from  other  stories. 
The  poem  is  written  in  the  vernacular  dialect  of  Malik 
Muhammad's  time  tinged  slightly  with  an  admixture 
of  Persian  words  and  idioms.  It  was  originally 
written  in  the  Persian  character.  It  is  a  work  of  great 
originality  and  poetic  beauty,  and  must  be  reckoned  as 
one  of  the  masterpieces  of  Hindi  literature. 

The  following  translation  of  an  extract  from  Malik 
Muhammad's  description  of  Ceylon  will  give  some 
idea  of  his  excellence  as  a  poet : — 

"  When  a  man  approacheth  this  land,  'tis  as  though  he  approacheth 
Kailasa  the  mount  of  heaven.  Dense  mango-groves  lie  on  every  side, 
rising  from  the  earth  to  the  very  sky.  Each  tall  tree  exhaleth  the 
odours  of  mount  Malaya,  and  the  shade  covereth  the  world  as  though 
it  w^ere  the  night.  The  shade  is  pleasant  with  its  Malaya  breeze  ;  e'en 
in  the  fiery  month  of  Jyestha  [May-June]  'tis  cool  amidst  it.  It  is  as 
though  night  cometh  from  that  shade  and  as  though  from  it  cometh  the 
greenness  of  the  sky.  When  the  wayfarer  cometh  thither  suffering 
from  the  heat  he  forgetteth  his  trouble  in  his  blissful  rest,  and  whoso 
hath  found  this  perfect  shade,  returneth  ne'er  again  to  bear  the 
8un-rays. 

"  So  many  and  so  dense  are  these  groves,  that  I  cannot  tell_  their 
end.  The  whole  six  seasons  of  the  year  do  they  flower  and  fruit,  as 
though  it  were  always  spring. 

"  The  pleasant  thick  mango-groves  bear  fruit,  and  the  more  fruit 
they  bear,  the  more  (humbly)  do  the  trees  bow  their  heads. _  On  the 
main  branches  and  trunks  of  the  jack  trees,  the  jack  fruit  ripen,  and 
fair  appeareth  the  bnrhal  to  him  who  looketh.  The  khirni  ripeneth 
sweet  as  molasses,  and  the  black  wild  plum,  like  black  bees  (among  its 
leaves).  Cocoanuts  ripen  and  ripeneth  the  khurhur;  they  ripen  as 
though  the  orchards  were  in  Indra's  heaven.  From  the  mahud  doth 
such  sweetness  exude,  that  honey  is  its  flavour,  and  flowers  its  scent ; 
and  in  these  princes'  gardens  are  other  good  fruits,  good  to  eat,  whose 


EARLY  BHAKTI  POETS  33 

names  I  knew  not.  They  all  appear  with  nectar-like  branches,  and  he 
who  once  tasteth  them  remaineth  ever  longing  for  more. 

"  Areca  and  nutmeg,  all  fruits,  are  produced  there  luxuriantly. 
On  every  side  are  thick  groves  of  tamarinds,  of  palmyras,  and  of  date- 
palms. 

"  There  dwell  the  birds,  singing  in  many  tongues,  and  sporting 
joyfully  as  they  look  upon  these  nectar-branches.  At  dawn  the  honey- 
suckers  are  fragrant,  and  the  turtle-dove  cries  out  '  'Tis  thou  and  only 
thou'  (eka-i  tu  hi).  The  emerald  parroquets  sportively  rejoice,  and 
the  rock-pigeons  cry  kurkur  and  fly  about.  The  hawk-cuckoo  crieth 
for  its  beloved,  and  the  skulking  warbler  shouted  tuhln  khl.  Kuhu  kuhu 
ever  crieth  the  cuckoo,  while  the  king-crow  speaketh  in  many  tongues. 
'  Tyre,  tyre  '  [dahi,  daht]  crieth  the  milkmaid-bird,  while  the  green 
pigeon  plaintively  telleth  its  tale  of  woe.  The  peacock's  cry  kun  kuA 
sounded  sweet  to  the  ear,  and  loudly  caw  the  crows. 

"  Filling  the  orchards,  sitteth  every  bird  that  hath  a  name,  and 
each  praiseth  the  Creator  in  his  own  tongue."* 

Other  Poets  of  this  Period.— Two  other  poets  of  this 
period  may  also  be  mentioned — Narottam  Das  (fl.  1530) 
wrote  the  Sudania  Charitr  and  the  Dhruv  Charitr, 
These  works  are  stories  in  verse.  He  was  also  the 
author  of  detached  poems. 

Kripa  Ram  (fi.  1540)  was  the  author  of  a  work 
entitled  Hit  Tarahgini  written  in  Braj  Bhasha.  Its 
importance  lies  in  its  being  the  earliest  extant  work 
in  Hindi  dealing  with  the  art  of  poetry,  and  it  shows 
how  the  way  was  being  prepared  for  the  work  of 
Kesav  Das. 

^  Padumdvatl,  Canto  II.  27-29;  Translation  by  Sir  George  A. Griersoa 
and  Pandit  Sudhakara  Dwivedi  in  Bibliotheca  Indica  of  Asiatic  Society 
of  Bengal ;  New  Series,  No.  877,  Vol.  I.  15,  16. 


THE  MUGHAL  COURT  AND  THE  ARTISTIC 
INFLUENCE   IN   HINDI   LITERATURE 

(1550.1800) 

The  New  Influence  in  Hindi  Poetry.— Although  the 
religious  language  of  the  Muhammadans  was  Arabic,  the 
literary  language  they  used  in  India,  and  the  language 
of  the  court,  was  Persian.  This  language  possessed  a 
large  literature,  w^hich  had  already  developed  a  highly 
artistic  character  before  the  Muhammadan  power  was 
established  in  India.  Many  Hindus  who  were  connected 
with  the  court  came  to  learn  this  language,  and  when 
Urdu  literature  developed  it  was  fashioned  after 
Persian  models.  Though  Hindi  developed  on  its  own 
lines,  without  any  direct  influence  from  Persian,  it 
seems  not  unlikely  that  the  polished  Persian  verse 
with  which  many  Hindus  became  acquainted  may  have 
suggested  a  higher  artistic  standard  in  Hindi  literature 
than  there  had  been  before.  At  all  events  about  the 
middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  there  appeared  a  new 
artistic  influence  in  Hindi  literature,  which  was 
developed  under  encouragement  from  the  Mughal  court. 

Previous  Muhammadan  rulers  had  encourged  litera- 
ture, but  it  was  Akbar  who  first  extended  patronage  to 
those  who  wrote  in  Hindi.  The  reign  of  Akbar  (1556- 
1605)  was  marked  by  its  brilliance  and  splendour.  Not 
only  was  he  successful  in  war  and  in  establishing  a 
strong  and,  on  the  whole,  good  government,  but  he 
was  also  a  great  patron  of  art  and  literature.  Architec- 
ture, music,  painting  and  calligraphy  were  all  encour- 
aged.    The    Emperor   established   a   large    library    of 


THE  MUGHAL  COURT  &  HINDI  LITERATURE  35 

books  of  various  languages,  and  had  translations 
made  from  Sanskrit  into  Persian  and  the  vernacular. 
Poets  were  patronized  and  rewarded  with  great  liber- 
ality. The  magnificence  of  such  a  reign,  like  the 
glorious  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth  in  England  which 
was  contemporary  with  it,  could  not  but  exercise  a 
stimulating  influence  on  all  sides,  and  this  was  felt 
in  Hindi  literature  as  well  as  in  other  directions. 
Even  those  writers  who  lived  far  away  from  the 
influence  of  the  court  were  helped  by  feeling  that  they 
could  carry  on  their  labours  in  peace  under  a  govern- 
ment strong  enough  to  secure  good  order,  and  tolerant 
towards  Hindus  as  well  as  Muhammadans.  Akbar 
pursued  a  deliberate  policy  of  protection  and  encourage- 
ment of  Hindu  learning.  The  patronage  extended  by 
him,  and  others  in  high  position,  to  Hindu  as  well  as  to 
Muhammadan  writers,  stimulated  a  great  outburst  of 
literary  activity,  and  encouraged  improvement  in  the 
standards  of  poetic  art.  The  influence  was  of  course 
felt  most  by  those  writers  who  lived  in  close  touch  with 
the  court. 

Poets  at  Akbar's  Court.— Akdar  himself  is  the  reputed 
author  of  a  few  detached  verses  in  Hindi,  in  which  he 
signs  himself  Akabbar  Ray.  They  were  probably 
composed  in  the  Emperor's  name  by  the  court  musician 
Tan  Sen.  Some  of  Akbar's  great  ministers  of  state 
were  also  authors.  It  was  largely  due  to  the  influence 
of  Raja  Todar  Mai  (1523-1589)  in  making  Hindus  learn 
Persian  that  Urdu  was  developed  and  accepted  as  a 
language.  Besides  translating  the  Bhagavata  Purana 
into  Persian,  Todar  Mai  was  the  author  of  some  Hindi 
verses,  the  best  being  on  morals  {ntti) .  Raja  Birbal 
(1528-1583)  was  a  Kanauji  Dube  Brahman,  and  was  at 
first  a  poet  at  the  court  of  the  Raja  of  Jaipur.  The 
latter  sent  him  to  the  court  of  Akbar,  where  his  ability 
soon  brought  him  into  favour.  He  was  not  only  skilled 
in  business  so  that  he  soon  rose  to  a  high  position,  but 
also  possessed  great  musical  and  poetical  talent.  Akbar 
gave  him  the  title  of  Kavi  Ray  (poet-laureate)  and  he 
received  rapid  promotion.    He  was  famous  as  a  poet  for 


36       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

his  short  verses  of  a  witty  and  humorous  character. 
No  complete  work  by  him  has  survived,  but  many 
verses  ascribed  to  him  are  still  current.  When  he 
reached  a  high  position  he  himself  became  a  patron  of 
other  poets.  Raja  Manohar  Das  (fl.  1577),  another 
of  Akbar's  courtiers,  was  also  a  poet.  Maharaja  Md7i 
Singh  (1535-1618)  of  Jaipur,  one  of  Akbar's  generals, 
was  a  great  patron  of  literary  men,  and  is  reputed  to 
have  given  as  much  as  a  lakh  of  rupees  for  a  single 
verse.  Abul  Faiz_  (or  Faizi)  was  brother  of  Abul  Fazl, 
who  wrote  the  Ai7i-i-Akbari.  Both  were  friends  of 
Akbar.  Abul  Faiz  was  not  only  a  Persian  poet  but  the 
author  of  many  Hindi  couplets. 

The  most  skilled  Hindi  poet  amongst  Akbar's  great 
ministers  of  state  was  Abdul  Rahim  Khankhana 
(1553-1627).  He  was  the  son  of  Bairam  Khan  through 
whose  aid  Akbar,  in  his  youth,  had  been  established 
on  the  throne.  He  was  acquainted  with  Arabic,  Per- 
sian, Sanskrit  and  Hindi,  and  besides  being  a  poet 
himself  was  a  great  patron  of  poets,  especially  of  Gang 
Kavi.  His  Hindi  verses,  especially  those  on  morals 
[niti)  are  very  much  admired,  and  he  was  a  poet  of  a 
high  order.  Amongst  the  several  works  he  produced 
is  the  Rahmi  Sat  Sal  in  which  some  of  his  best  poetry 
is  found. 

Tan  Sen  (fl.  1560-1610)  of  Gwalior,  a  Hindu  con- 
vert to  Islam,  was  the  most  celebrated  musician  at 
Akbar's  court  and  indeed  of  his  age.  After  service  at 
other  courts  he  was  summoned  by  Akbar  in  1563,  and 
the  first  time  he  performed  Akbar  is  said  to  have  given 
him  two  lakhs  of  rupees.  Besides  being  a  singer  he 
also  wrote  poems  in  Hindi.  He  lived  on  into  the 
reign  of  Jahangir.  Amongst  his  compositions  are 
the  Sangit  Sdr  and  the  Rag  Mala.  Ra?n  Das  of 
Gopchal,  the  father  of  the  great  poet  Sur  Das,  was 
another  great  singer  of  Akbar's  court,  regarded  as 
second  only  to  Tan  Sen.  Among  other  Hindi  poets 
who  attended  Akbar's  court  were  the  two  friends 
Karnes  (or  Kara7i)  and  NarhariSahay.  The  latter  was 
given  by  Akbar  the  title  of  Mahapatr,  the   Emperor 


THE  MUGHAL  COURT  &  HINDI  LITERATURE  37 

saying  that  other  bards  were  vessels  of  virtue  (Gun  kd 
pair),  but  that  Narhari  Sahay  was  a  great  vessel 
(Mahdpdtr). 

A  more  famous  poet  connected  with  Akbar's  court 
was  Ganga  Prasad,  who  is  more  commonly  known  as 
Gang  Kaz'i.  He  lived  probably  from  about  1533  to 
1617.  Very  little  is  known  of  his  life,  and  though  he 
was  very  much  honoured  in  his  day  only  about  thirty 
or  thirty-five  of  his  verses  are  still  extant.  On  one 
occasion  Abdul  Rahim  Khankhana,  who  w^as  his  special 
patron,  is  reported  to  have  given  him  as  much  as 
thirty-six  lakhs  of  rupees  for  a  single  verse.  He  is  said 
to  have  excelled  in  the  comic  style  and  also  in  his 
description  of  battles. 

The  Art  of  Poetry.— Besides  the  many  poets  who  were 
closely  connected  with  the  court,  the  reign  of  Akbar 
was  the  period  when  such  great  poets  as  Tulsi  Das  and 
Sur  Das  flourished.  These  will  be  dealt  with  in  later 
chapters  in  connection  with  the  religious  movements 
with  which  they  were  connected.  But  more  closely  in 
touch  with  the  court  was  a  movement  to  systematize 
the  art  of  poetry  itself.  While  great  writers  like 
Tulsi  Das  and  Sur  Das  were  far  beyond  their  contem- 
poraries in  the  success  they  achieved  in  the  handling  of 
metres  and  the  polish  of  their  verse,  earlier  poets  had 
often  failed  in  this  respect.  But  the  artistic  influence 
which  had  been  brought  to  bear  on  Hindi  poetry  now 
became  self-conscious  in  various  works,  themselves  in 
verse,  which  determined  the  canons  of  poetic  criticism. 

Kesav  Das.— Kripa  Ram,  who  is  mentioned  in  a 
previous  chapter,  was  probably  the  forerunner  of  this 
movement,  but  the  first  great  writer  on  the  art  of  poetry 
was  Kesav  Das  Sayiadhya  Misra  (1555-1617)  of  Orchha 
in  Bundelkhand.  His  first  important  work  was  the 
Vzgyan  Gitd,  which  he  dedicated  to  his  patron  Raja 
Madhukar  Shah  of  Orchha.  His  m.ost  admired  work  is 
his  Kavi  Priyd,  in  which  he  describes  the  various  literary 
qualities  which  should  mark  a  good  poem  and  other 
matters  connected  with  the  art  of  poetry.  This  work, 
which  has  made  Kesav  Das-  an  authority  on  poetry,  was 


38       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

dedicated  to  a  famous  courtesan  of  those  days  named 
Pravin  Ray  Paturt,  who  was  also  the  authoress  of 
numerous  short  poems  which  have  a  great  reputation. 
The  Ram  Chandrika  of  Ke^av  Das  was  inscribed  to 
Indrajit  Singh,  son  of  Madhukar  Shah.  It  was  Ke^av 
Das  who,  through  Raja  Birbal's  instrumentality,  got 
Akbar  to  excuse  Indrajit  from  a  heavy  fine  he  had 
imposed  upon  him,  and  Kesav  Das  was  greatly  honoured 
by  Indrajit.  Ke^av  also  wrote  the  learned  Rasik 
Priya  on  poetical  composition  {sahitya)  and  the  Rayn 
Alahkrit?na7ij a?'i  on  prosody.  These  works  on  poetry 
and  kindred  subjects  were  not  only  concerned  with 
giving  rules,  but  also  provided  original  illustrations, 
so  that  each  work  is  also  a  collection  of  verse  of  great 
poetic  merit.  The  poetry  of  Ke^av  Das  is  not  easy 
reading,  but  there  is  no  doubt  of  his  being  a  poet  of 
very  great  skill,  and  his  name  is  to  be  reckoned 
amongst  the  foremost.  Very  many  commentaries  on 
his  principal  works  have  been  written,  and  he  has  had 
many  imitators.  The  translation  of  a  few  of  his  lines, 
w^hich  is  all  that  we  have  space  for  here,  can  give  only 
a  very  inadequate  idea  of  his  poetry: — 

KeSav  says  my  [grey]   hairs  have  done  to  me   what   my  enemies 

cannot  do; 
Maidens  with  a  countenance  fair  as  the  moon,  and  eyes   like  deer, 

now  call  me  Baba  [father]. 

*  *  *  *  * 

Do  not  employ  a  Brahman  who  is  greedy  of  fees;   do  not  make  a 

fool  your  friend  ; 
Do  not  serve  an  ungrateful   master  ;    do  not   praise   poetry  that  is 

full  of  defects. 

*  *  *  «  * 

Kesav  says,  When  I  see  glancing  eyes  my  good  resolutions  go,  and 
the  opinion  of  the  world  is  no  longer  heeded  ; 

My  ears  become  deaf  to  instruction,  and  my  eyes  closed  to  all 
discernment  of  right  and  wrong  ; 

The  chariot-like  motion  of  the  good  intentions  of  my  mind  becomes 
stopped  like  a  river  that  has  ceased  to  flow. 

May  the  Creator  forbid  that  such  a  woman  should  fix  her  eyes  on  me. 

*  *  *  *  * 

Avoid  a  horse  with  an  unsteady  gait,  a  servant  who  is  a  thief,  a 
mind  which  is  fickle,  a  friend  without  intelligence,  a  master 
who  is  a  miser. 


THE  MUGHAL  COURT  &  HINDI  LITERATURE  39 

Taking    food    in    another's    house,    dwelling     in     dog-kennels, 

travelling  in  the  rainy  season — these  things,  says  Kesav  Das, 

give  a  lot  of  trouble. 
Keeping   company   with   sinners,   a   woman   under  the  control  of 

Cupid,  a  son  of  ill-fame — these  are  hurtful  to  the  mind. 
Folly,  old  age,  sickness,  poverty,  falsehood,  anxiety — these  things, 

says  Kesav,  are  a  hell  upon  earth. 

Some  Contemporaries  offKesav  Das.— The  brother 
of  Ke^av  Das,  whose  name  was  Balbhadra  San- 
adhya  Misra,  wrote  several  works  which  include  a 
commentary  on  the  Bhagavata  Purana.  His  most 
famous  poem  is  a  Nakhsikh,  which  is  recognized  as 
a  standard  work.  This  is  a  form  of  literature  which  is 
common  amongst  Hindi  writers,  and  is  closely  connected 
with  works  on  the  art  of  poetry.  In  a  Nakhiikh  every 
part  of  the  body  of  a  hero  or  heroine  from  the  toe-nail 
(nakh)  to  the  top-knot  of  the  hair  ( Hkh)  is  described 
with  illustrative  verses.  Such  a  work  was  intended  to 
be  used  by  other  poets  in  want  of  ideas.  A  similar 
kind  of  work  is  a  work  on  lovers,  or  a  Ndyak-Ndyiki 
Bhed,  in  which  various  kinds  of  heroes  and  heroines  are 
described  and  classified  with  a  minuteness  which  is 
often  pedantic  and  absurd.  Other  writers  on  the  art  of 
poetry  of  this  period  were  Bdl  Krishna  Tripdthl 
(fi.  1600)  and  Kdsx  Ndth  (fl.  1600),  the  former  of  whom 
wrote  a  good  prosody  called  Ras  Chandrikd. 

Artistic  Poets  of  the  time  of  Jahangir  and  Shah 
Jahan.— The  effects  of  the  encouragement  given  to 
Hindi  literature  by  Akbar  lasted  long  after  his  death. 
Jahangir  (1605-1627)  and  Shah  Jahan  (1627-1658)  very 
largely  continued  Akbar's  policy  of  encouraging  poets. 
Dara  Shukoh,  the  son  of  Shah  Jahan,  was  a  great 
patron  of  learning  and  literature  with  a  strong  leaning 
towards  Hinduism.  Even  in  the  time  of  Aurangzeb 
(1658-1707),  although  he  was  unfavourable  to  Hindu 
learning,  the  title  of  Kavi  Rdy  continued  to  be  given 
to  deserving  poets. 

Su7idar  (fl.  1631)  was  a  Brahman  who  held  the 
title  of  Kavi  Rdy  at  the  court  of  Shah  Jahan.  He 
wrote  a  work  on  poetical  composition  called  Sundar 
Sringdr,   and  was  also  the  author  of    a   Braj    Bhasha- 


40       A  HISTORY  OF.  HINDI  LITERATURE 

version  of  the  Singhasan  Batttst,  which  was  afterwards 
translated  into  Urdu  by  Lallu  Ji  Lai. 

Senapati  was  born  about  1589  and  died  after  1649. 
He  was  a  Kanauji  Brahman  and  a  devotee  of  Krishna. 
His  principal  work  was  the  Kavitta  Rat?idkar,  which  is 
dated  1649,  and  deals  with  various  aspects  of  the  art 
of  poetry  as  well  as  other  matters.  He  excelled 
in  his  description  of  nature,  and  is  especially  famous 
for  his  description  of  the  six  seasons  in  which  he  is 
considered  to  have  excelled  all  Hindi  poets  with 
the  exception  of  Dev  Datt.  Another  work  of 
his  is  the  Kdvya  Kalpadrum.  His  poems  were 
probably  written  as  detached  verses  and  collected 
afterwards.  The  following  is  from  his  description  of 
spring  {basant): — 

"  During  the  sportive  spring  the  palas  trees  are  in  full  bloom,  with 
red  flowers,  parts  of  which  however  appeir  from  their  blackness  to 
have  been  dipped  in  ink.  Swarms  of  bees  are  going  to  them  to  gather 
honey.  The  mild  south  wind  is  blowing  fragrance  in  the  gardens  and 
forests.  The  poet  Senapati  says,  '  In  the  spring,  by  constantly  looking 
at  these  flowers  the  idea  of  writing  poetry  has  been  strongly  brought 
to  my  mind.'  The  red  glow  of  the  upper  part  of  the  flowers  clearly 
pourtrays  the  burning  desire  and  yearning  of  a  lover,  while  the 
blackness  of  the  lower  part,  like  a  fire  burnt  out  completely  and  turned 
to  charcoal,  suggests;,the  pangs  of  separation." 

The  Tripathi  Brothers. — Ratnakar  Tripathi  was  a 
Kanauji  Brahman  who  lived  at  Tikvampur  in  the 
district  of  Cawnpore  and  had  four  sons,  all  of  whom 
became  famous  Hindi  poets.  They  flourished  in  the 
reigns  of  Shah  Jahan  and  Aurangzeb  in  the  latter  half 
of  the  seventeenth  century  and  amplified  and  developed 
the  work  of  Kesav  Das.  The  eldest  was  Chi?itdmani 
Tripathi,  who  was  patronised  by  several  rulers  as 
well  as  by  the  Emperor  Shah  Jahan.  He  is  regarded 
as  one  of  the  great  authorities  on  the  subject  of  poetical 
composition  {sdhiiya).  Among  his  works  are  Chhand 
Bichdr,  a  treatise  on  prosody,  Kdvya  Vivek,  Kavi-kul 
Kalpataru,  and  Kdvya  Prakd's.  He  was  also  the 
author  of  a  Rdmdyan  in  kavitta  and  other  rnetres. 
The  name  of  the  youngest  brother  was  Jata  Sankar 
or    Nil  Kanth   TripdthJ.      Both    Chintamani   and  Nil 


THE  MUGHAL  COURT  &  HINDI  LITERATURE  41 

Kanth    were    excelled    as    poets    by    the    other    two 
brothers,  Bhushan  and  Mati  Ram. 

Bhushan  Tripathi  visited  the  courts  of  several  kings, 
but  his  special  patrons  were  Siv  Raj  (or  Sivaji)  of 
Sitara  and  Chhatrasal  of  Panna.  On  one  occasion  the 
latter  monarch  helped  with  his  own  shoulder  to  carry 
the  poet's  palanquin,  and  Siv  Raj  bestowed  lavish 
rewards  upon  him,  giving  on  one  occasion  five  elephants 
and  twenty-five  thousand  rupees  for  a  single  poem» 
The  principal  work  of  Bhushan  is  the  ^iv  Raj  Bhushan 
which  is  an  excellent  account  of  rhetoric  as  used  in 
poetry,  and  each  figure  of  rhetoric  is  illustrated  by  a 
verse  in  honour  of  Siv  Raj.  It  was  composed  between 
1666  and  1673.  Some  of  the  works  of  Bhushan  have 
been  lost.  But  besides  the  Siv  Raj  Bhushan  there  are 
extant  other  verses  in  praise  of  Siv  Raj  and  of 
Chhatrasal.  Bhushan  is  considered  to  have  excelled 
in  the  tragic,  heroic,  and  terrible  styles,  and  holds  a 
very  high  rank  amongst  Hindi  poets.  He  is  especially 
famous  for  his  keen  interest  in  the  progress  and  glory 
of  the  Hindus,  and  this  is  one  of  the  features  of  his 
poetry  which  is  very  much  admired.  It  was  this 
interest  which  attached  him  so  much  to  Sivaji,  the 
Maratha  hero,  who  did  so  much  to  weaken  the 
Muhammadan  power.  Here  is  a  translation  of  one  of 
his  verses  : — 

"As  Indra  subdued  Jambha,  as  the  taraz- fire  overcomes  the  sea,  as 
Ramachandraovercame  the  hypocrite  Ravan,  as  the  wind  overpowers  the 
waters,  as  Sambhu  overcame  Cupid,  as  Rama,  the  Lord  of  Brahmans, 
overcame  Sahasra  Bal,  as  fire  overcomes  the  branches  of  a  tree,  as  a 
leopard  overcomes  a  herd  of  deer,  as  a  lion  overcomes  elephants,  as 
light  overcomes  darkness,  as  Krishna  overcame  Kanha,  so,  Bhushan 
says,  the  lion  Siv  Raj  overcomes  the  Muhammadans." 

Mati  Ram  Tripathi  lived  first  at  the  court  of  Maha- 
raja Rav  Bhau  Singh  of  Bundi  and  afterwards  at  that  of 
Raja  Sambhu  Nath  Sulanki.  In  honour  of  his  first 
patron  he  composed  a  work  on  rhetoric  called  Lalit 
Lalam.  Among  the  illustrative  verses  are  many  in 
praise  of  his  patron  as  well  as  love  verses  and  others. 
His  work  is  considered  to  give  a  very  clear  and  easily 
understood  account  of  the  subject  of  rhetoric.   It  was 


42       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

composed  about  1664.  The  Chhajid  Sdr  Pingal  is  a 
treatise  on  prosody  composed  in  honour  of  Sambhu 
Nath.  The  Ras  Raj  is  a  treatise  on  lovers  containing  a 
Nayika  Bhed  and  is  considered  to  be  a  very  excellent 
work.  Mati  Ram  also  composed  the  Sat  Sal  Mati  Ram. 
As  a  poet  he  is  famed  for  the  purity  and  sweetness  of 
his  language,  the  excellence  of  his  similes,  and  for  his 
descriptions  of  the  dispositions  of  men.  Many  of  his  dohas 
are  considered  equal  to  those  of  Biharl  Lai. 

Other  Poets  of  the  time  of  Shah  Jahan.— Raja  Sambhu 
Nath  Singh  of  Sitara  (fi.  1650)  was  the  friend  and 
patron  of  Mati  Ram  and  other  poets.  He  was  the 
author  of  a  Nayika  Bhed  and  a  Nakhsikh  which  are 
much  admired.  The  latter  is  sometimes  considered  to 
be  the  best  work  of  its  kind  extant. 

Sarasvaii  (fl.  1650)  was  a  Brahman  of  Benares, 
learned  in  Sanskrit  composition.  At  the  instance  of 
Shah  Jahan  he  took  to  writing  poems  in  Hindi.  His 
chief  work  of  this  kind  was  the  Kavi7idra  Kalpa  Lata, 
in  which  there  are  many  poems  in  praise  of  his  patron 
as  well  as  of  prince  Dara  Shukoh  and  the  Begam 
Sahiba. 

Tulsi  (fl.  1655)  was  only  a  mediocre  poet  himself, 
but  in  1655  he  compiled  an  excellent  anthology  of 
poetry,  called  the  Kavi  Mala,  which  includes  poems 
by  seventy-five  different  authors  from  1443  to  1643. 

Another  writer  of  this  period  was  Veddng  Ray 
(fl.  circ.  1650).  He  was  the  author  of  the  Pdrsl  Prakds, 
a  work  describing  the  manner  of  counting  the  months, 
etc.,  by  Hindus  and  Muhammadans,  which  was  compiled 
by  the  orders  of  the  Emperor  Shah  Jahan. 

Bihari  Lai  Chaubc.— The  most  celebrated  Hindi 
writer  in  connection  with  the  art  of  poetry  is  Biharl 
Ldl  Chaube  (circ.  1603-1663).  He  is  said  to  have  been 
born  in  Gwalior  and  to  have  spent  his  boyhood  in 
Bundelkhand.  On  his  marriage  he  settled  at  Muttra 
the  home  of  the  Bra]  Bhasha  dialect,  in  which  his 
verses  are  composed.  His  patron  was  Raja  Jai  Singh 
of  Jaipiir,  who  gave  him  a  gold  ash7'afi  for  each  dohd. 
Bihari  Lai's  fame   as   a  poet  rests  upon  his  Sat  Sal 


THE  MUGHAL  COURT  &  HINDI  LITERATURE  43 

(1662),  which  is  a  collection  of  approximately  seven 
hundred  dohas  and  sorathds.  The  majority  of  the 
couplets  take  the  shape  of  amorous  utterances  of 
Radha  and  Krishna,  but  each  couplet  is  complete  in 
itself.  They  are  intended  to  illustrate  figures  of 
rhetoric  and  other  constituents  of  a  poem.  As  the 
verses  do  not  connect  themselves  into  a  story  the  order 
of  their  arrangement  can  be  changed  and  they  have 
come  down  in  different  recensions.  The  most  famous 
is  that  made  for  prince  Azam  Shah,  the  third  son  of 
the  Emperor  Aurangzeb,  and  hence  called  the  Azam 
Shahi  recension.  A  brief  description  of  this  work 
will  help  to  indicate  the  nature  of  Hindi  works  on 
poetics.  The  vast  amount  of  literature  of  this  type 
seems  to  indicate  that  in  India  the  dictum  that  a  poet 
is  born  and  not  made  would  have  to  be  reversed.  In 
the  Azam  Shahi  recension  there  are  first  a  few 
miscellaneous  verses.  Then  there  are  verses  applic- 
able to  each  of  four  kinds  of  hero  {nayak),  followed 
by  nearly  two  hundred  verses  which  describe  the 
varieties  and  sub-varieties  of  heroine  {nayika) .  Next 
there  are  verses  illustrating  the  various  constituents 
of  poetic  style  {^ras),  its  excitants  and  its  ensuants, 
among  which  verses  about  a  hundred  and  seventy  deal 
with  the  pangs  of  love  in  separation.  The  third 
section  is  a  Nakhsikh,  and  ends  with  verses  descriptive 
of  the  six  Indian  seasons.  In  the  fourth  part  there 
are  moral  apophthegms  and  allusive  sayings  and 
a  collection  of  verses  illustrating  sentiments  appro- 
priate to  various  occasions.  In  the  last  part  besides 
the  conclusion  and  other  verses  there  are  verses 
illustrating  the  different  styles  {ras)  of  poetry,  which 
are  considered  in  India  to  be  nine  in  number.  These 
are  hasya  (comic),  karund  (pathetic),  raudra 
(furious),  vjra  (heroic),  bhaydnaka  (terrible), 
bibhatsa  (disgustful),  adbkuta  (marvellous),  sdnta 
(quietistic),  and  srihgdra  (erotic).  Only  the  first 
eight  are  referred  to  in  this  part  of  the  Sat  Sal,  as  the 
last  {srihgdra)  had  already  been  dealt  with  at  length 
in  an  earlier  part  of  the  recension. 


44       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

Bihari  Lai  was  not  the  originator  of  this  form  of 
composition.  Similar  works  had  appeared  in  Sanskrit, 
one  of  which  is  called  Sapta  Satikd^  the  Sanskrit 
equivalent  of  the  Hindi  5«/ kS^x  (**  seven  centuries,"  i.e. 
of  verse).  Tulsi  Das  had  written  a  Sat  Sal  before  the 
time  of  Bihari  Lai,  as  well  as  other  Hindi  poets.  But 
Bihari  Lai  undoubtedly  achieved  very  great  excellence 
in  this  particular  line,  and  his  work  has  had  a  large 
number  of  commentators  (as  many  as  thirty  in  number) 
and  many  imitators.  Hari  Prasad  (fl.  circ.  1775)  of 
Benares  translated  the  Sat  Sal  into  Sanskrit.  Each 
couplet  had  to  be  complete  in  itself,  and  yet  in  such  a 
small  space  the  poet  must  give  an  entire  picture. 
Conciseness  of  style  was  therefore  an  absolute  necessity, 
and  besides  this  all  the  different  artifices  of  Indian 
rhetoric  had  to  be  illustrated  in  turn.  The  work  of 
Bihari  Lai  is  a  triumph  of  skill  and  of  felicity  in  expres- 
sion. He  is  perhaps  at  his  best  in  his  description  of 
natural  phenomena,  as  when  he  describes  the  scent- 
laden  breeze  under  the  guise  of  a  way-worn  pilgrim 
from  the  south.  Naturally  a  work  of  this  kind  abounds 
in  obscurities  and  on  account  of  the  peculiarity  of  its 
style  is  very  difficult  to  translate.  In  the  following 
verse  Bihari  Lai  gives  a  riddle: — 

At  even  came  the  rogue,  and  with  my  tresses 

Toyed  with  a  sweet  audace — with  ne'er  a    'please' 

Snatched  a  rude  kiss — then  wooed  me  with  caresses. 

'Who  was  it,  dear  ?  '   '  Thy  love  ?  '    'No,  dear,  the  breeze.' * 

Jaswant  Singh.— Mahdrdj a  Jaswant  Singh  of  Jodh- 
pur  (Marwar)  figures  in  history  as  an  opponent  of 
Aurangzeb.  He  was  born  in  1625  and  died  in  1681. 
In  1634,  while  still  a  boy,  he  came  to  the  throne.  In 
literature  his  chief  fame  rests  on  his  Bhdshd  Bhushan, 
a  work  on  rhetoric  in  261  dohds.  This  work,  which  was 
founded  on  a  Sanskrit  one,  has  had  a  large  number  of 
commentators.  Though  Kesav  Das  was  the  first  great 
Hindi  writer  on  this  subject  he  is  considered  heretical 
in  some  points,  and  for  those  who  do  not  follow  Kesav 

^  Translation  from  Imperial  Gazetteer  of  India,  Vol.  II,  p.  423. 


THE  MUGHAL  COURT  &  HINDI  LITERATURE  45 

Das,  the  Bhasha  Bhushan  is  the  great  text-book. 
Jaswant  Singh  was  the  author  of  several  other  poems 
which  are  connected  with  the  Vedanta  philosophy. 

Dcv  K&wu—Dev  Datt,  more  commonly  known  as 
Dev  Kavi  (circ.  1673-1745)  was  a  Sanadhya  Brahman 
who  was  born  at  Etawah.  At  the  age  of  sixteen  he 
recited  his  first  effort  before  Prince  Azam  Shah.  In 
search  of  a  patron  he  visited  many  places  in  India  but 
seems  to  have  been  dissatisfied  with  each  in  turn.  His 
most  famous  patron  was  Raja  Bhogi  Lai.  His  various 
wanderings  enabled  him  to  give  accurate  descriptions 
of  the  inhabitants  of  different  parts  of  India.  He  was 
a  prolific  writer  and  is  credited  by  some  with  having 
composed  as  many  as  seventy-two  different  works. 
Only  about  thirty  of  these  are  extant.  They  include 
a  play  called  Dev  Maya  Py-apahch  and  works  on  the  art 
of  poetry.  Amongst  his  most  famous  works  are  the 
Jatibilas,  the  Rasbilds,  and  the  Premchayidj-ika.  Most  of 
his  verse  is  of  an  erotic  character,  but  from  the  point 
of  view  of  form  and  language  he  is  to  be  reckoned 
amongst  the  greatest  Hindi  poets.  He  wrote  in  Braj 
Bhasha,  and  his  verse  is  adorned  with  all  the  recognised 
ornaments  of  style.  In  his  handling  of  rhymes,  his 
use  of  attributes,  his  drawing  of  comparisons,  his  know- 
ledge of  the  sayings  current  amongst  men,  and  his 
description  of  heroines  who  represent  women  typical 
of  various  parts  of  India,  he  is  considered  to  have  shown 
the  greatest  skill. 

Here  are  some  translations  of  his  verses  : — 

"  Call  me  a  wicked  person,  noble  or  ignoble,  call  me  poor,  or  one 
who  is  to  be  blamed,  call  me  a  woman  of  ill-fame — whether  in  this 
world,  the  world  of  men,  or  in  the  best  of  worlds  I  dwell,  nevertheless 
I  am  separate  from  all  these  worlds  ;  whether  my  body  is  destroyed,  or 
the  gods  and  gurus  are  destroyed,  or  my  life  is  destroyed,  I  will  not 
give  up  my  obstinacy.  He  who  dwells  in  Brindaban,  wearing  a  crown 
and  yellow  garments,  with  him  I  am  madly  in  love.'' 

***** 

•'  The  work  of  a  man  of  noble  race,  the  gentility  of  a  nobleman, 
the  wealth  of  a  generous  man,  a  woman  of  good  character,  the  honour 
of  giving,  generosity  like  that  of  Sur  Das,  the  lustre  of  virtue,  a  woman 
who  walks  like  an  elephant,  water  in  the  hot  weather,  the  sunshine  of 
October,   the  smiling   lightning   accompanied    by    clouds   during   the 


46       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

month  of  November,  the  full  moon,  the  morning  sun,  the  days  of  the 
winter  season,  the  nights  of  spring — Dev  says  these  are  most  excellent." 

Later  Writers  on  the  Art  of  Poetry. — The  reign  of 
Aurangzeb  (1658-1707J  was  marked  by  the  beginning 
of  the  decay  of  the  Mughal  Empire.  It  was  also  the 
time  when  a  period  of  decadence  in  Hindi  poetry  set  in. 
This  however  was  not  felt  at  first  as  is  shown  by  the 
names  mentioned  above.  But  towards  the  end  of 
Aurangzeb' s  reign,  and  still  more  after  his  time  in  the 
eighteenth  century,  the  decline  becomes  evident. 
"While  the  number  of  poets  still  continues  to  be  great 
there  are  no  names  of  such  outstanding  importance  as 
marked  the  time  of  Akbar  and  his  immediate  successors, 
and  most  of  the  writers  are  only  imitators  of  greater 
poets  who  preceded  them.  The  severe  Aurangzeb 
was  unfavourable  to  the  arts  and  to  Hindu  learning, 
but  the  court  patronage  of  poets  was  not  entirely 
withdrawn,  and  many  poets  attended  his  court  and  also 
that  of  his  son  Bahadur  Shah  (1707-1712).  The  follow- 
ing are  some  of  the  writers  on  the  art  of  poetry  and 
kindred  subjects  from  the  time  of  Aurangzeb  down  to 
the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century  : — 

Kiilpati  Misra  (born  circ.  1620)  was  a  Chaube 
Brahman  of  Agra  and  a  nephew  of  Bihari  Lai  Chaube. 
He  attended  the  court  of  Maharaja  Ram  Singh  of 
Jaipur.  His  chief  w^ork,  which  is  dated  1670,  is  the 
Ras  Rahasya,  a  work  on  poetics. 

Ram  Jl  (born  1646)  was  the  author  of  a  Ndyikd 
Bhed  as  well  as  other  works. 

Manda7i  (born  1643),  of  Bundelkhand,  wTote  several 
works  on  poetical  composition. 

Sukh  Dev  Misra  (fl.  circ.  1680),  of  Kampila,  attended 
several  courts.  The  Raja  of  Gaur  gave  him  the  title 
of  Kavirdj .  He  wrote  works  on  prosody,  poetical 
composition  and  other  subjects  and  is  considered  a  poet 
of  very  great  merit. 

Newdj  (fl.  circ.  1700)  was  a  Brahman  who  lived  at 
the  Court  of  Raja  Chhatrasal  of  Panna.  He  was  the 
author  of  a  play  called  the  Sakuntald  Ndtak  as  well  as 
of  many  detached  verses. 


THE  MUGHAL  COURT  &  HINDI  LITERATURE  47 

Kdlidds  Trivedl  (fl.  circ.  1700),  of  BanpurS-  in  the 
Doab,  was  for  many  years  in  attendance  at  the  court  of 
Aurangzeb,  and  afterwards  at  that  of  the  Raja  of 
Jambu.  He  is  considered  to  be  an  excellent  poet. 
Among  other  works  he  compiled  an  anthology,  called 
Kdlidds  Hajdrd,  which  contains  a  thousand  poems 
selected  from  the  works  of  over  two  hundred  poets 
from  1423  to  1718. 

Alam  (fi.  1703)  was  a  Brahman  who  fell  in  love 
wnth  a  Muhammadan  woman  named  Shekh  Rangrezin, 
who  was  a  dyer  by  trade.  He  became  a  Muhammadan 
and  married  her,  Shekh  Rangrezin  also  wrote  poetry. 
Alam  was  in  the  service  of  Muazzam  Shah,  son  of 
Aurangzeb.  His  poetry  is  considered  to  be  very 
beautiful. 

Sripaii  (fl.  1720)  is  counted  as  one  of  the  authorities 
on  poetical  composition.  His  most  famous  work  is  the 
Kdvya  Saroj .     He  wrote  several  other  works  also. 

Suraii  Mi^ra  (fl.  1729) ,  of  Agra,  wrote  a  commen- 
tary on  the  Sat  Sal  of  Bihari  Lai,  and  also  one  on  the 
Rasik  Priyd  of  Ke^dv  Dds.  He  also  wrote  works  on 
rhetoric  and  other  subjects,  including  a  NakHikh. 

Gahjan  (fl.  1729),  of  Benares,  was  a  Brahman  who 
was  in  the  service  of  Qamruddin  Khan  (the  Vazir  of 
the  Emperor  Muhammad  Shah)  who  gave  the  poet 
liberal  rewards.  At  the  orders  of  his  patron  Ganjan 
wrote  a  work  on  poetics  in  which  there  are  many 
verses  in  praise  of  the  Vazir.  It  is  considered  to  be  a 
work  of  great  merit. 

Guru  Datt  Si?igk  (fl.  1734)  was  Raja  of  AmethL 
He  wrote  under  the  name  of  Bhupati.  His  principal 
work  was  an  excellent  Sat  Sal  in  imitation  of  that  of 
Bihari  Lai. 

Tosh  Nidhi  (fl.  1734)  lived  at  Singraur  in  the 
district  of  Allahabad.  He  wrote  the  Sudhdnidhi  and 
other  works  on  poetics  including  a  Nakhsikh,  which 
are  much  admired. 

Dalpati  Rdy,  a  merchant,  diVid.  Ba7isidhar,  a  Brahman 
(fl.  1735 j,  both  of  whom  lived  at  Ahmedabad,  wrote  in 
collaboration  the  Alahkdr  Ratndkar.     It  was  inscribed 


48       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

to  Raja  Jagat  Singh,  of  Udaipur,  and  is  a  kind  of 
commentary  on  the  Bhasha  Bhushan  of  Raja  Jaswant 
Singh. 

Som7iath  (fl.  1737)  was  a  Brahman  who  was  patro- 
nised by  a  son  of  the  Raja  of  Bharatpur.  Among  other 
works  he  wrote  the  Piyiish  Nidhi,  which  is  considered 
to  be  a  standard  work  on  the  art  of  poetry. 

Ras  Lhi  (fi.  1740) ,  whose  real  name  was  Sayyad 
Gulam  Nabi,  of  Bilgram,  in  the  district  of  Hardoi, 
wrote  several  works  on  poetics  which  include  a 
Nakh'sikh  called  Ahg  Darpayi. 

Uday  Nath  Trivedl  (fl.  1740),  of  Banpura  in  the 
Doab,  was  the  son  of  Kalidas  Trivedi.  He  was  the 
poet-laureate  at  the  court  of  the  Raja  of  Amethi,  and 
wrote  on  the  subject  of  poetics.  His  son  Dulah 
Trivedi  ("fl.  1750)  also  wrote  on  the  same  subject. 

Bairl  Sal  (fl.  1768)  wrote  on  the  subject  of  rhetoric. 
His  Bhasha  Bharan  is  considered  to  be  a  standard  work 
of  great  excellence. 

Kishor  (fl.  1768)  was  an  excellent  poet  whose 
various  detached  verses  are  collected  in  the  Kishor 
Sahgrah,  He  is  considered  to  be  very  successful  in  his 
description  of  the  six  seasons. 

Datt  or  Dev  Datt  (fl.  circ.  1770)  was  the  author 
of  the  Lalitya  Lata,  a  work  on  rhetoric  which  is  said 
to  resemble  the  Lalit  Lalmi  of  Mati  Ram. 

Chandan  Ray  (fl.  1773)  attended  the  court  of  the 
Raja  of  Gaur.  He  wrote  many  esteemed  works  on  the 
art  of  poetry.  •  He  had  twelve  pupils,  all  of  whom 
became  successful  poets. 

Ratan  Kavi  (born  circ.  1741)  wrote  works  on 
poetics,  which  include  the  Fateh  Shah  Prakds  and  the 
Fateh  Bhushan.  He  is  considered  to  be  a  poet  of  great 
merit.  His  examples  are  mostly  verses  in  praise  of  his 
patron  Fateh  Shah  of  Bundela. 

Mani  Ram  Misra  (fl.  1772)  has  given  in  the  fifty- 
six  verses  of  his  Chhand  Chhappani  a  very  concise  and 
well-written  account  of  the  art  of  poetry.  This  poern, 
which  somewhat  resembles  the  Sanskrit  Sutras,  is 
considered  to  be  very  excellent. 


THE  MUGHAL  COURT  &  HINDI  LITERATURE  49 

Bodha  Firozabadi  (fl.  circ.  1773-1803)  was  connected 
with  Panna.  He  was  the  author  of  the  Ishqyiama  and 
some  detached  verses  which  are  much  admired.  He 
was  a  poet  of  love,  and  his  verses  were  written  mostly 
in  praise  of  a  courtesan  named  Subhan. 

Jan  Gopal  (fi.  1776)  was  the  author  of  the 
Samarsdr,  a  work  which  is  said  to  be  full  of  poetic 
feeling. 

Bevki  Nandan  (fi.  1784-1800)  wrote  the  Sringdr 
Charitr,  which  is  a  Ndyak-Ndyikd  Bhed,  and  other 
much-praised  works  connected  with  the  art  of  poetry. 

Than  Ram,  or  Than  (fl.  1791),  a  Bhat,  was  the 
author  of  a  work  on  poetics  called  Dalel  Prakds. 

Bern  (fi.  1792-1817)  wrote  works  on  poetics,  rheto- 
ric, etc.     His  best  verses  are  said  to  be  verses  of  satire. 

Bhaim  (fl.  1794  ),  a  Bhat,  who  Vv^as  skilled  in  all  the 
graces  of  poetry,  wrote  in  Braj  Bhasha  works  connected 
with  the  poetic  art. 

Bhikdrl  Das  (fl.  1734-1750)  was  a  Kayasth  of 
Pratapgarh,  in  Bundelkhand.  He  is  more  generally 
known  by  the  name  of  Das.  His  patron  was  Hindupati, 
brother  of  Raja  Prithvipati.  He  ^borrowed  phrases 
from  other  poets,  especially  from  Sripati,  but  is  con- 
sidered nevertheless  to  be  an  excellent  poet.  Besides 
many  works  connected  with  the  art  of  poetry  he  also 
translated  the  Vishnu  P2irana  into  Hindi  verse. 

Gtima?i  Misra  (fl.  1744)  attended  the  court  ^of 
Akbar  AH  Khan.  He  translated  the  Naishadha  of  Sri 
Harsha  and  wrote  several  works  on  poetics. 

Raghu  Ndth  (fl.  1745),  of  Benares,  was  the  father 
of  Gokul  Nath,  who  is  celebrated  as  the  translator  of 
the  Mahdbhdrata  into  Hindi.  Raghu  Nath  was  a 
Vv^iter  on  the  art  of  poetry,  his  works  being  much 
admired.  They  include  a  commentary  on  the  Sat  Sai 
of  Bihari  Lai. 

K^imdr  Mani  Bhatt  (fl.  1746)  was  a  very  skilled 
poet,  who  wrote  a  good  work  on  poetics  called  Rasik 
Rasdl. 

Sambhu  Ndth  Misra  (fl.  1749)  attended  the  court  of 
Bhagwant  Ray    Khichi,    Raja    of   Asothar.     He  wrote 

4 


50       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

several  much-admired  works  on  poetics  and  was  the 
preceptor  of  Siv  Arsela  and  other  poets. 

Siv  Arsela  (fl.  circ.  1750)  wrote  on  poetical  com- 
position and  prosody. 

Jagat  Singh  (fl.  circ.  1770)  belonged  to  the  family 
of  the  Raja  of  Gonda  and  Bhinga  and  was  a  pupil  of 
Siv  Arsela.     He  wrote  on  prosody  and  rhetoric. 

Thakur  (fi.  circ.  1750)  excelled  especially  in  the 
savaiya  metre,  and  his  works  are  mostly  in  the  erotic 
style.  His  most  famous  work  is  the  T^^a/^^^r.S«/a/^.  He 
also  wrote  a  commentary  on  the  Sat  Sal  of  Bihari  Lai. 

Ha7'i  Char  an  Das  (fi.  1778)  was  a  Brahman,  of 
Krishnagarh  (Marwar).  He  wrote  commentaries  on  the 
Kavi  Priya  and  Rasik  Priya  of  Kesav  Das,  as  well  as 
on  the  Sat  Sal  of  Bihari  Lai,  and  was  the  author  of  other 
works  also. 


VI. 
TULSI  DAS  AND  THE  RAMA  CULT 

(1550-1800) 

Tulsi  Das.— The  most  celebrated  name  in  Hindi 
literature  is  undoubtedly  that  of  Tulsi  Das,  whose 
Hindi  Ramayan  has  had  great  and  deserved  fame  not 
only  in  India  but  throughout  the  whole  world.  The 
details  of  his  life,  apart  from  legends,  are  very  scanty. 
He  is  said  to  have  been_  born  about  1532,  and  his 
father's  name  is  given  as  Atma  Ram  and  his  mother's 
as  Hulasi.  His  own  name  was  at  first  Rambola,  but 
when  he  became  a  devotee  he  took  the  name  of  Tulsi 
Das.  The  place  of  his  birth  is  not  known  with  certainty. 
According  to  some  he  was  born  at  Hastinapur  ; 
according  to  others  at  Hajipur,  near  Chitrakut.  But 
the  tradition  which  is  most  generally  accepted  is 
that  he  was  born  at  Rajpur,  in  the  district  of  Banda. 
He  was  a  Kanauji  Brahman,  and  it  is  said  that  his 
guru  was  Narharidas,  who  was  sixth  in  preceptorial 
succession  from  Ramananda,  He  himself  tells  us,  in 
the  introduction  to  the  Ramayan,  that  he  studied  at 
Sukar-khet,  or  Soron.  When  he  was  a  young  man  it 
is  said  that  he  loved  his  wife  very  much,  and  one  day, 
when  she  had  gone  home  to  her  father's  house,  Tulsi 
Das  was  greatly  troubled  on  account  of  separation 
from  her.  He  therefore  hastened  after  her,  although 
it  involved  crossing  a  swollen  river  in  the  dark.  His 
wife,  however,  rebuked  him,  saying  that  if  only 
he  would  have  as  great  devotion  to  Rama,  the  earth 
would  become  gold.  These  words  acted  as  a  call  to 
Tulsi  Das.  At  daybreak  he  left  home,  and  became  a 
devotee  of   Rama,    taking  up   his   abode    at    Benares. 


52       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

There  he  spent  the  greater  part  of  his  life,  though 
he  also  visited  other  places,  such  as  Soron,  Ayodhya, 
Chitrakut,  Allahabad,  and  Brindaban.  Many  legends 
are  told  about  him,  but  scarcely  anything  that  is 
reliable.  Nabha  Das,  the  author  of  the  Bhaktamaldy 
is  said  to  have  been  his  friend,  and  Sur  Das  is  also 
supposed  to  have  visited  him.  He  was  not  directly 
connected  with  the  court,  though  Raja  Man  Singh  and 
Abdul  Rahim  Khankhana  are  said  to  have  befriended 
him,  and  no  doubt  he  was  affected  by  the  artistic 
influence  in  literature  which  was  characteristic  of  the 
age  in  which  he  lived.  Tulsi  Das  died  at  Benares 
in  1624. 

The  great  masterpiece  of  Tulsi  Das  is  the  Rdmdyan, 
This  is  the  name  by  which  it  is  generally  known, 
but  he  himself  called  it  the  Rdm-charit-mmas,  the 
**  Lake  of  the  deeds  of  Rama."  It  was  commenced  in 
1575,  according  to  his  own  statement  in  the  prologue. 
The  story  of  Rama  had  been  told  long  before  by  the 
Sanskrit  poet  Valmiki,  who  lived  probably  in  the 
fourth  century  B.C.,  and  it  has  been  a  frequent  theme 
of  Indian  poets  in  the  various  languages  of  India.  The 
Rdmdyan  of  Tulsi  Das  is  not,  however,  a  translation 
of  that  of  his  Sanskrit  predecessor.  The  general 
outline  of  the  story  is  the  same,  but  there  is  a 
great  deal  of  difference  in  treatment.  It  is  only 
in  the  broadest  outline  that  the  two  agree.  Not  only 
are  there  different  episodes  in  each,  but  even  in  the 
main  story  the  incidents  are  differently  placed  and 
often  have  quite  a  different  complexion.  The  main 
difference,  however,  between  the  work  of  Valmiki  and 
that  of  Tulsi  Das  is  in  their  theological  outlook.  In 
books  II  to  VI  of  Valmiki's  poem  Rama  appears  as 
a  man  and  only  a  man,  except  in  one  passage  which  has 
been  interpolated  into  the  sixth  book.  The  first  book, 
in  which  Rama  and  his  brothers  are  regarded  as  partial 
incarnations  of  Vishnu,  is  considered  by  scholars  as 
a  later  addition.  In  the  poem  of  Tulsi  Das,  however, 
Rama  appears  throughout  as  an  incarnation  of  the 
Supreme  God.     The  same  theological  position  as  that 


TULSI  DAS  AND  THE  RAMA  CULT         53 

of  Tulsi  Das  was  also  characteristic  of  a  Sanskrit  work 
by  an  unknown  poet  called  the  AdhydUna  Ramayan, 
the  date  of  which  is  not  earlier  than  the  fourteenth 
century  a.d.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  it  was  this  work 
w^hich  was  the  real  precursor  of  Tulsi  Das's  Ramayan. 
Besides  their  theological  attitude  they  have  other 
points  in  common,  but  even  a  casual  acquaintance  with 
the  two  poems  will  make  it  clear  that  the  work  of 
Tulsi  Das  is  far  superior  in  poetic  merit. 

Tulsi  Das  was  in  line  with  that  tendency  of  the 
bhakti  movement,  which  we  have  already  noted  in 
a  previous  chapter,  in  using  the  vernacular  for  his  great 
poem.  But  he  knew  he  would  meet  with  his  critics, 
especially  amongst  the  Sanskrit  pandits,  who  would  affect 
to  despise  his  work  as  a  concession  to  the  uneducated 
multitude.  There  is  quite  a  long  passage  in  the  intro- 
duction to  the  Rdmdyan  in  which  he  vindicates  his  style 
against  the  critics.  "  My  lot,'  he  writes,  "is  low,  my 
purpose  high  ;  but  I  am  confident  of  one  thing,  that  the 
good  will  be  gratified  to  hear  me  though  fools  may 
laugh.  The  laughter  of  fools  will  be  grateful  to  me — 
as  they  have  no  taste  for  poetry  nor  love  for  Rama 
I  am  glad  that  they  should  laugh.  If  my  homely 
speech  and  poor  wit  are  fit  subjects  for  laughter,  let 
them  laugh  ;  it  is  no  fault  of  mine.  If  they  have  no 
understanding  of  true  devotion  to  the  Lord,  the  tale  will 
seem  insipid  enough  ;  but  to  the  true  and  orthodox 
worshippers  of  Hari  and  Hara  the  story  of  Raghubar 
will  be  sweet  as  honey."  The  wonderful  acceptance, 
however,  which  the  poem  of  Tulsi  Das  has  received  has 
been  its  greatest  vindication.  Amongst  all  classes  of 
the  Hindu  community  in  North  India,  with  the  excep- 
tion perhaps  of  a  few  Sanskrit  pandits,  it  is  to-day 
everywhere  appreciated  and  venerated  whether  by  rich 
or  poor,  old  or  young,  learned  or  unlearned,  and  it  has 
sometimes  been  called  the  Bible  of  the  Hindu  people 
of  North  India. 

One  most  commendable  feature  of  the  Rdmdyan  is 
its  pure  and  lofty  moral  tone,  in  w^hich  it  compares 
very  favourably  with  the  literature  put  forth  by   some 


54       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

of  the  devotees  of  Krishna.  In  one  passage,  in  which 
Tulsi  Das  has  been  explaining  why  he  calls  his  poem 
the  "Lake  (or  "pond")  of  Rama's  deeds,"  he  says, 
"  Sensual  wretches  are  like  the  cranes  and  crows  that 
have  no  part  in  such  a  pond  nor  ever  come  near  it ;  for 
here  are  no  prurient  and  seductive  stories,  like  snails 
or  frogs  and  scum  on  the  water,  and  therefore  the 
lustful  crow  and  greedy  crane,  if  they  do  come,  are 
disappointed."  This  claim  made  by  Tulsi  Das  was  a 
just  one,  and  it  is  this  feature  of  his  poem  which  has 
given  it  so  much  value  in  holding  up  a  high  moral  ideal 
before  its  readers. 

The  dialect  which  Tulsi  Das  uses  is  the  old  Bais- 
wari,  or  Avadhi,  dialect  of  Eastern  Hindi,  and  through 
his  influence  Ramaite  poetry  since  his  day  has  gener- 
ally been  in  this  dialect.  He  uses,  however,  many 
words  from  other  dialects,  especially  fromBraj  Bhasha. 
His  language  abounds  in  colloquialisms,  and  Tulsi  Das 
has  little  scruple  in  altering  a  word,  or  adopting  a 
corrupt  pronunciation,  to  make  it  fit  into  his  metre  or 
rhyme.  Like  other  Indian  poets  he  makes  use  of  many 
conventional  similes  and  stereotyped  phrases.  The 
gem  which  is  supposed  to  be  in  the  serpent's  head,  and 
the  mythical  power  of  the  swan  to  separate  milk  from 
the  water  with  which  it  has  been  mixed,  and  his  con- 
stant use  of  such  phrases  as  "lotus-feet,"  are  exam- 
ples. But  there  are  many  other  passages  which  show 
that  Tulsi  Das  was  a  true  observer  and  lover  of  nature. 
In  one  place  he  speaks  of  King  Dasrath,  in  his  great 
distress,  writhing  "  like  a  fish  in  the  scour  of  a  turbid 
river,"  a  passage  which,  Mr.  Growse  tells  us,  puzzled 
commentators  until  someone  discovered  that  this  was 
a  true  phenomenon  of  nature.  Tulsi  Das's  love  of 
nature  comes  out  in  majiy  such  passages  as  the 
following,  taken  from  the  Aranya  Kand  . — 

"The  Lord  went  on  from  there  to  the  shore  of  the  deep  and 
beautiful  lake  called  Pampa  ;  its  water  as  clear  as  the  soul  of  the 
saints  ;  with  charming  flights  of  steps  on  each  of  its  four  sides  ;  where 
beasts  of  different  kinds  came  as  they  listed,  to  drink  of  the  flood,  like 
crowds  of  beggars  at  a  good  man's  gate.  Under  its  cover  of  dense 
lotus-leaves  the  water  was  as  difficult  to  distinguish  as  is  the  unembodied 


TULSI  DAS  AND  THE  RAMA  CULT         55 

supreme  spirit  under  the  veil  of  delusive  phenomena.  The  happy  fish 
were  all  in  placid  repose  at  the  bottom  of  the  deep  pool,  like  the  days 
of  the  righteous  that  are  passed  in  peace.  Lotuses  of  many  colours 
displayed  their  flowers  ;  there  was  a  buzzing  of  garrulous  bees,  both 
honeymakers  and  bumble-bees  ;  while  swans  and  waterfowl  were  so 
noisy  you  would  think  they  had  recognised  the  Lord  and  were  telling 
his  praises.  The  geese  and  cranes  and  other  birds  were  so  numerous 
that  only  seeing  would  be  believing,  no  words  could  describe  them. 
The  delightful  voice  of  so  many  beautiful  birds  seemed  as  an  invitation 
to  the  wayfarers.  The  saints  had  built  themselves  a  house  near  the 
lake,  with  magnificent  forest-trees  all  round — the  champa,  the 
mdlsari,  the  kadamh  and  tanidla,  the  pdtala,  the  kathal,  the  dhdk  and 
the  mango.  Every  tree  had  put  forth  its  new  leaves  and  flowers  and 
was  resonant  with  swarms  of  bees.  A  delightful  air,  soft,  cool  and 
fragrant,  was  ever  in  delicious  motion,  and  the  cooing  of  the  cuckoos 
was  so  pleasant  to  hear  that  a  saint's  meditation  would  be  broken  by  it. 
The  trees,  laden  with  fruits,  bowed  low  to  the  ground,  like  a  generous 
soul  whom  every  increase  of  fortune  renders  only  more  humble  than 
before."* 

The  story  is  divided  into  seven  chapters,  or  kdnds, 
named  respectively  Bdl,  Ayodhyd,  Aranya,  Kishkindhd^ 
Su7idar,  Lanka,  and  Uttara.  Of  these  the  second, 
which  describes  the  scenes  at  Ayodhya  that  led  up  to 
Rama's  banishment  to  the  forest,  is  considered  the  best. 
The  characters  are  consistently  drawn,  and  many  of  the 
scenes  are  full  of  deep  pathos.  The  grief  of  Dasrath, 
the  filial  piety  meekness,  generosity  and  nobility  of 
Rama,  the  wifely  devotion  of  Sita,  the  courage  and 
enthusiasm  of  Lakshman,  the  unselfishness  of  Bharat, 
as  the  genius  of  Tulsi  Das  has  described  them,  cannot 
but  awaken  a  response  in  the  heart  of  the  reader. 

The  object  which  Tulsi  Das  had  in  mind,  however, 
was  not  merely  to  tell  in  beautiful  verse  a  wonderful 
story,  but  to  use  it  as  a  vehicle  for  preaching  the 
supreme  value  of  the  worship  of  Rama.  Though  Tulsi 
Das  accepted,  like  other  leaders  of  the  Vaishnava 
movement,  the  pantheistic  teaching  of  the  Vedanta,  it 
was  tempered  by  belief  in  a  personal  God,  whom  he 
identified  with  the  incarnation  Rama.  His  poem  is  a 
passionate  appeal  to  men  to  devote  themselves  to 
the  worship  of   this  God.     The  theological  digressions 

*  Translation  by  Mr.  F.  S.  Growse. 


56       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

which  Tulsi  Das  sometimes  makes,  and  the  frequent 
hymns  he  inserts,  may  be  to  some  extent  a  drawback 
to  the  literary  value  of  the  Rdmdyan,  but  they  are 
excused  by  the  purpose  which  Tulsi  Das  had  in  view. 
In  these  hymns  the  powers  of  Tulsi  Das  as  a  poet  are 
manifest,  and  even  those  who  do  not  accept  his  reli- 
gious ideas  cannot  but  admire  the  spiritual  earnestness 
which  the  hymns  display.  The  following  is  from  the 
Bdl  Kdiid: — 

"  To  the  King  of  heaven    be   all  glory  given,  refuge  of  creation  in 

distress  and  care, 
Priests  and   kine  befriending,    hell's  brief  triumph    ending,    best 

beloved  of  Lakshmi,  Ocean's  daughter  fair. 
Heaven  and  earth's  upholder,  who,  than  all  men  bolder,  dares  to 

scan  the  secret  of  thy  strange  mysterious  way  ? 
Ever  kind  and  loving,  humble  souls  approving,  may  thy  gracious 

favour  reach  now  to  me,  I   pray. 
Spirit  all-pervading,  fleshly  sense  evading,  hail  Mukund  immortal, 

lord  of  blissfulness  supreme.  -^ 

Ever  pure  and  holy,  whom  the  Queen  of  Folly  has  no  power  to 

tangle  in  her  world-deluding  dream. 
Glory,  glory,  glorj',   theme  of  endless  story,  sung  by  saints  and 

sages  in  an  ecstasy  of  love. 
Daily,    nightly  gazing   on    the   sight   amazing,    source   of   every 

blessing,  Hari,  lord  of  heaven  above. 
Triune  incarnation,  who  at  earth's  creation,  wert  alone  presiding, 

and  other  aid  was  none  ; 
Though  in   prayer  unable,  and   my  faith   unstable,   O   great   sin- 
destroyer,  hear  our  hapless  moan. 
Life's    alarms    dispelling,    all    disasters   quelling,    comfort  of  the 

faithful,  be  our  succour  now  ; 
All  the  gods  implore  thee,  falling  low  before  thee,  with  unfeigned 

submission  of  body,  soul,  and  vow. 
Lord  God  Bhagavana,  Ved  and  eke  Purana,  Sarada  and  Seshnag, 

and  all  the  saintly  throng, 
Find  the  theme  too  spacious,  only  know  thee  gracious  ;  hasten  then 

to  help  us  in  our  hour  of  wrong. 
In  all  grace  excelling,  Beauty's  chosen  dwelling,  ark  on  life's  dark 

ocean,  home  of  all  most  sweet, 
God  and  saints  and  sages,  now  this  tempest  rages,  fly  in  consterna- 
tion to  clasp  thy  lotus  feet."^ 

The  Rdmdyan  is  undoubtedly  a  great  poem,  worthy 
to  rank  amongst  the  great  classical  masterpieces  of  the 
world's  literature.     It  is  not  indeed  without  its  literary 

*  Translation  by  Mr.  F.  S.  Growse. 


TULSI  DAS  AND  THE  RAMA  CULT         57 

defects,  and  other  Hindi  poets,  such  as  Sur  Das,  may- 
have  excelled  Tulsi  Das  in  the  polish  of  their  verse 
and  their  handling  of  metres.  But  the  Ramayan  of 
Tulsi  Das  will  always  hold  its  place  as  the  work  of 
a  great  literary  genius.  The  importance  of  its  in- 
fluence, too,  cannot  be  exaggerated.  Tulsi  Das  founded 
no  sect,  and  indeed  added  nothing  to  the  theology 
of  that  school  of  Hinduism  to  which  he  belonged, 
but  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  Rmiayan  has  been  the 
most  potent  factor  in  making  Vaishnavism  the  accepted 
cult  of  the  vast  majority  of  Hindus  in  North  India 
to-day. 

A  brief  mention  must  be  made  of  the  other  literary- 
works  of  Tulsi  Das.  All  of  them  have  the  object  of 
popularizing  the  worship  of  Rama.  In  the  Ram 
Gitdvali  Tulsi  Das  tells  the  story  of  Rama  in  verses 
which  are  adapted  for  singing.  The  Dohavali,  or  DohOr 
Ramayan,  is  a  collection  of  dohas  and  is  not  so  much  an 
epic  poem  as  a  moral  work.  Sir  George  Grierson  thinks 
that  it  is  probably  a  collection  of  dohas  from  other 
poems  of  Tulsi  Das,  made  by  a  later  hand.  The 
Kavittdvali,  or  Kavittsambandk,  also  deals  with  the 
story  of  Rama  and  is  written  in  kavitta  metre.  The 
Vinay  Patrika  is  a  collection  of  hymns  to  Rama  and 
is  a  work  which  is  very  much  admired.  The  Sat  Sat 
is  a  similar  work  to  that  which  Bihari  Lai  wrote  fifty 
years  later,  but  is  connected  with  Rama  instead  of  with 
Krishna.  It  contains  seven  hundred  emblematic  dohas. 
It  is  dated  1585.  A  great  many  other  works  also  are 
ascribed  to  Tulsi  Das,  but  with  regard  to  the  genuine- 
ness of  some  of  them  there  is  a  great  deal  of  doubt. 
Although  the  Rdm-charit-mmas  is  undoubtedly  his 
greatest  work  his  poetic  powers  are  also  exhibited  in 
the  other  works  which  he  composed. 

The  Bhaktamala.— It  marks  the  greatness  of  the 
achievement  of  Tulsi  Das  that  amongst  Ramanandis, 
or  other  worshippers  of  Rama  as  the  incarnation  of  the 
Supreme,  there  seem  to  be  fewer  Hindi  works  of  out- 
standing importance  than  in  other  sections  of  the 
Vaishnava  movement,  and  this  is  no  doubt  due  to  the 


58       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

dominating  influence  of  Tulsi  Das's  great  work. 
There  are,  however,  some  writers  who  must  be  men- 
tioned. The  Bhaktamala  was  the  work  of  Ndbha  Das 
(fl.  1600),  who  was  also  known  as  Ndrdyan  Das.  He  was 
the  disciple  of  Agra  Das,  who  according  to  some  was  a 
leader  of  the  Vallabha  movement  of  Krishna  worship, 
but  by  others  is  said  to  have  been  a  disciple  of  Rama- 
nanda.  Nabha  Das  was  a  Dom  by  caste,  and  it  is  said 
that  when  he  was  a  child  he  was  exposed  by  his  parents 
during  a  time  of  famine  to  perish  in  the  woods. 
Agra  Das  found  him  and  brought  him  up.  It  w^as  at 
the  suggestion  of  his  preceptor  that  Nabha  Das,  when 
he  arrived  at  maturity,  wrote  the  Bhaktamala,  probably 
somewhere  between  1585  and  1623.  The  Bhaktamala, 
or  "  Roll  of  the  Bhagats,"  is  a  poem  in  old  Western 
Hindi,  written  mainly  in  the  chhappai  metre.  It  gives 
an  account  of  the  principal  Vaishnava  devotees, 
whether  worshippers  of  Rama  or  of  Krishna,  though  it 
deals  chiefly  with  those  who  were  worshippers  of  Rama. 
Nabha  Das  himself  seems  to  have  been  a  Ramanandi. 
The  style  is  very  obscure  and  compressed.  Gener- 
ally one  stanza  only  is  given  to  each  devotee,  and 
in  this  his  chief  characteristics  are  described  in  the 
briefest  possible  manner,  with  allusions  to  different 
legendary  events  in  his  life.  The  Bhaktamala  holds 
a  very  important  place  in  Indian  religious  history. 
It  would,  however,  be  almost  unintelligible  but  for  the 
commentary  which  always  accompanies  it.  This  was 
written  in  the  kavitta  metre  by  Priya  Das  in  1712. 
In  this  commentary  further  legends  are  added.  There 
have  also  been  other  later  commentators,  and  their 
w^ork  is  often  printed  together  with  the  original  text 
of  Nabha  Das  and  the  gloss  of  Priya  Das.  The 
Bhakta^ndld  has  been  fully  translated  and  adapted  in 
all  the  chief  vernaculars  of  India. 

Maluk  ViK^,—Maluk  Das,  who  lived  in  the  reign  of 
Aurangzeb,  was  the  founder  of  a  sect  which  is  closely 
connected  with  the  Ramanandls.  The  Maluk  Dasis 
worship  Rama  as  an  incarnation  of  the  Supreme  and 
also  use  images.     The  main  difference   between    this 


TULSI  DAS  AND  THE  RAMA  CULT         59 

sect  and  that  of  the  Ramanandis  seems  to  be  that  the 
teachers  of  the  Maluk  Dasis  are  not  ascetics,  but,  like 
their  founder,  laymen.  Maluk  Das  was  a  trader  by 
occupation,  and  is  said  to  have  been  born  at  Kara,  in 
the  district  of  Allahabad,  and  to  have  died  at  Jagan- 
nath.  Monasteries  of  his  followers  at  Kara  and  other 
places  are  still  in  existence.  The  works  ascribed  to 
Maluk  Das  include  the  following  : — Das  Ratna  ("The 
Ten  Jewels  ")  ;  Bhaktavatsal,  which  deals  with  Krish- 
na's regard  for  his  devotees  ;  Ratna- khd7ia,  which  is  a 
dissertation  on  the  soul  and  God.  He  is  also  the 
reputed  author  of  a  large  number  of  detached  verses 
and  apophthegms  which  are  still  quoted  amongst  the 
people.  A  famous  one  is  translated  as  follows,  and 
has  been  compared  with  the  teaching  of  St.  Matt.  vi.  26 : 

*'  The  python  doth  no  service,  nor  hath  the  fowl  of  the  air  a  duty 
to  perform  (to  earn  its  living); 
Quoth    Maluk   Das,   For  all  doth    Rama     provide   their   daily 
bread." 

The  idea  of  the  couplet  is  based  on  the  belief  current 
in  India  that  the  python  ( ajagara)  is  unable  to  hunt 
for  its  food,  but  has  to  wait  with  its  mouth  open  for 
its  prey  to  walk  into  it. 

Other  Works  connected  with  the  Worship  of  Rama.— r 
A  disciple  of  Tulsi  Das,  who  was  also  his  constant 
companion,  was  Benl  Madhav  Das  (fi.  1600).  He  is 
said  to  have  written  a  biography  of  his  master  called 
Gosdm  Charity,  and  was  also  the  author  of  other 
works,  including  a  Nakhsikh.  Besides  the  Rdmdyan 
(or  Ram- char it-md7ias)  and  other  works  of  Tulsi  Das 
dealing  with  the  story  of  Rama,  there  appeared 
during  this  period  several  other  works  connected  with 
the  same  subject.  Chintdmani  Tripdthl  (fl.  1650),  who 
is  mentioned  in  the  previous  chapter  as  a  writer  on  the 
art  of  poetry,  also  wrote  a  Rdfndyan  in  kavitta  and 
other  metres. 

Md7i  Dds  (born  1623),  of  Braj,  wrote  a  Hindi  poem 
entitled  Rdmcharitr,  which  is  founded  on  two  Sanskrit 
works,  the  Rdmdyana  of  Vdlmiki  and  the  Ha7iuma7i 
Ndtaka. 


60       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

Ishwarl  Prasad  Tripathi  (fl.  1673)  wrote  the  Ram 
Bilas  Rdmayan,  which  is  a  translation  of  Valmiki's 
poem. 

Bal  All  (fl.  circ.  1692)  was  the  author  of  two  works 
both  in  praise  of  Rama  and  Sita  and  entitled  Nehprakas 
and  Slid  Ram  Dhydnmanjari.  Jd7ik  Rasiki  Saran  (fl. 
1703)  wrote  the  Avadh  Sdgar,  which  is  a  poem  in 
honour  of  Rama.  Bhagwant  Rdy  (fl.  1750)  was  the 
ruler  of  Asothar,  in  the  district  of  Fatehpur,  and  for 
several  years  resisted  the  attacks  of  the  Mughal 
Emperor,  till  he  was  killed  by  treachery  in  1760. 
He  was  the  author  of  a  Rdmdyan.  Another  work 
dealing  with  the  story  of  Rama  was  the  Ram  Bilds 
of  Sambhu  Nath  (fl.  1750).  Tulsi  Sahib  (1763-1843) 
was  the  eldest  son  of  the  Raja  of  Poona,  but  was  un- 
willing to  succeed  to  the  throne.  He  therefore  left  his 
kingdom  and  renounced  the  world,  and  becoming  a 
wandering  ascetic  finally  settled  in  Hathras.  Besides 
many  hymns,  he  wrote  a  work  called  the  Ghat- 
Rdmdyan,  He  claimed  that  in  a  previous  birth  he 
w^as  none  other  than  the  great  Tulsi  Das  himself,  and 
had  in  that  birth  composed  the  Ghat-Rdmdyan,  but  as  it 
aroused  a  great  deal  of  opposition  it  was  not  published 
to  the  world  but  the  Rdm-cha7'it-mdnas  was  substituted 
in  its  place.  His  work  differs  in  style  and  language, 
as  well  as  in  subject  matter,  from  that  of  his  more- 
renowned  namesake,  and  is  decidedly  inferior  in 
character. 

Madhu  Sudan  Dds  (fl.  circ.  1782),  who  was  a 
poet  of  considerable  merit,  was  the  author  of  the 
Rdmasvamedh,  in  which  he  describes  the  horse-sacrifice 
made  by  Rama.  Like  Tulsi  Das  he  was  a  devotee  of 
Rama,  and  his  poetry  resembles  that  of  the  great 
master. 

ManiyClr  Singh,  also  called  Yar  (fl.  circ.  1785), 
was  another  devotee  of  Rama  who  was  a  skilful  poet. 
He  was  a  Kshatriya,  of  Benares,  His  works  include 
the  Saundarya  Laharl,  the  Sundarkand,  and  the 
Ha7iuman  Chhabbisi,  all  of  which  deal  with  some  of 
the  legends  regarding  Rama  and  Hanuman. 


TULSI  DAS  AND  THE  RAMA  CULT    61 

Ganesh  (fl.  1800),  who  was  patronised  by  the  Raja 
of  Benares,  besides  other  poetical  works,  composed 
in  Hindi  verse  a  translation  of  part  of  Valmiki's 
Ramayana. 


VII. 
THE  SUCCESSORS  OF  KABlR 

The  Kabirpanthis.— The  great  influence  which  the 
teaching  of  Kablr  exercised  is  shown  by  the  large 
number  of  sects  which  owe  their  origin  to  the  ideas 
which  he  promulgated.  These  sects  have  their 
literature  in  the  vernacular.  The  Kabirpanthis,  who 
trace  their  direct  origin  to  Kablr,  have  two  divisions. 
One  has  its  centre  at  the  Kabir-chaura  in  Benares,  and 
is  also  associated  with  Maghar  where  Kablr  died.  The 
other  has  its  centre  in  Chhattisgarh  in  the  Central 
Provinces.  Each  of  these  divisions  is  ruled  by  a 
mahant,  and  each  has  its  literature.  The  descent  of  the 
Benares  mahants  is  traced  back  to  Surat  Gopal,  and  that 
of  the  Chhattisgarh  mahants  to  Dharm  Das.  These  are 
sometimes  said  to  have  been  personal  disciples  of 
Kablr,  but  probably  lived  a  little  later.  Although  the 
Kabirpanthis  have  as  a  whole  kept  free  from  the 
worship  of  images,  Hindu  influence  has  in  various  ways 
found  its  way  back  into  the  sect.  Kablr  rejected  the 
doctrine  of  divine  incarnation,  but  he  himself  is  often 
now  regarded  as  an  incarnation  of  the  Supreme. 
Hindu  practices  which  he  condemned,  such  as  the  use 
of  the  rosary,  have  been  introduced.  Except  the  works 
ascribed  to  Kabir  himself  the  large  amount  of  literature 
belonging  to  this  sect  has  been  scarcely  examined  by 
those  outside  the  sect.  The  Bijak,  already  mentioned 
in  connection  with  Kablr,  was  probably  compiled  about 
fifty  years  after  his  death.  Two  other  works  belonging 
to  this  sect  may  also  be  mentioned.  These  are  the  Sukk 
Nidhan,  which  probably  belongs  to  about  the  middle  of 


THE  SUCCESSORS  OF  KABIR  63 

the  eighteenth  century,  and  the  Ama7'  Mul,  which  is 
probably  as  late  as  1800.  A  Kablrpanthi  who  flourished 
about  1800  and  wrote  some  pithy  verses  in  kundaliya 
metre  was  Paltu  Sahib. 

The  Sikhs.— It  has  already  been  mentioned  in  a 
previous  chapter  that  the  religion  of  the  Sikhs,  founded 
by  Nanak,  was  greatly  influenced  by  the  teaching  of 
Kablr.  Nanak  was  followed  by  nine  gn7'iis  most  of 
whom  were  poets.  The  sacred  book  of_the  Sikhs, 
called  the  Granth  Sahib  (or  sometimes  the  Adi  Granth^ 
i.e.  "Original  Granth,"  to  distinguish  it  from  the  later 
Granth  oi  the  Te7ith  Guru),  was  compiled  in  1604  by 
Guru  Arjun  (1563-1606),  who  was  the  sixth  Guru  of  the 
Sikhs.  It  contains  the  compositions  of  Guru  Nanak, 
Guru  Angad,  Guxm  A^nar Das ,G\xvvi Ram  Das, Guru  Ar/2in, 
Guru  Teg  Bahadur  (the  ninth  Guru)  and  a  couplet  of 
Guru  Govind  Singh  (the  tenth  Guru).  The  com- 
positions of  these  last  two  Gurus  were  added  after  the 
first  compilation.  Besides  the  writings  of  these  Gurus, 
the  Granth  also  contains  panegyrics  of  the  Gurus  by 
the  bards  who  attended  on  them  or  admired  their 
characters,  and  hymns  of  several  bhagats,  such  as 
Namdev,  Kabir  and  others,  whose  teachings  corrobo- 
rated that  of  the  Gurus.  The  hymns  are  not  arranged 
in  the  Granth  according  to  their  authors  but  according 
to  the  thirty-one  Rags,  or  musical  measures,  to  which 
they  were  composed.  All  the  Gurus,  except  the  last, 
adopted  the  name  of  Nanak  as  their  nom  de  plume.  At 
the  beginning  of  the  volume  is  placed  the  Japji,  which 
was  composed  by  Nanak,  and  then  follow  the  So-Darti, 
the  So-purkhu,  and  the  Sohila,  which  are  extracts  from 
later  parts  of  the  books.  All  these  pieces  were  in- 
tended for  devotional  purposes,  and  therefore  placed  at 
the  beginning  of  the  book.  After  the  Rags  at  the  end 
of  the  volume  is  the  Bhog,  or  conclusion,  which  con- 
tains slokas  and  panegyrics.  The  whole  forms  a 
lengthy  volume,  the  ideas  which  it  contains  being 
repeated  in  endless  variation.  For  the  Sikhs  it  is  a 
hymn-book  and  prayer-book  as  well  as  a  manual  of 
theology.     The  language  varies  in  different  parts,  but 


64       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

for  the  most  part  the  hymns  are  written  in  old  dialects 
of  Hindi  with  some  admixture  of  Panjabi.  A  hymn  of 
Guru  Nanak  was  given  in  a  previous  chapter.  The 
following  is  one  of  the  hymns  of  Guru  Arjun : — 

"  On  the  way  where  the  miles  cannot  be  counted, 
The  name  of  God  shall  there  be  thy  provision  ; 
On  the  way  where  there  is  pitch  darkness, 
The  name  of  God  shall  accompany  and  light  thee  ; 
On  the  way  where  nobody  knoweth  thee, 
The  name  of  God  shall  be  there  to  recognise  thee  ; 
Where  there  is  very  terrible  heat  and  great  sunshine, 
There  the  name  of  God  shall  be  a  shadow  over  thee  ; 
There,  saith  Nanak,  the  name  of  God  shall  rain  nectar  on  thee." 

The  tenth  Guru,  whose  name  was  Govind  Siyigh, 
held  office  from  1675  to  1708.  It  was  he  who  devel- 
oped the  Sikhs  into  a  great  military  order  called  the 
Khalsa  and  organized  them  to  resist  the  Muhammadans. 
Under  him  many  Hindu  ideas  were  introduced  into  the 
religion  of  the  Sikhs.  Govind  Singh  composed  many 
verses  mostly  in  Hindi  (Braj  Bhasha),  but  some  also 
in  Persian  and  Panjabi.  These  works,  together  with 
the  translations  and  other  verses  of  some  in  the  Guru's 
employ,  were  collected  in  the  year  1734,  after  Govind 
Singh's  death,  by  Bhai  Mani  Singh  into  one  volume, 
which  is  called  the  Gra7ith  of  the  Te7ith  Giiru  to  distin- 
guish it  from  the  Adi  Grayith.  It  is  used  for  the 
promotion  of  valour  and  other  purposes,  but  it  is  not 
regarded  by  the  Sikhs  as  having  the  same  authority 
as  the  Adi  Granth.  Besides  the  Japji,  or  hymns,  in 
praise  of  God,  and  many  other  religious  verses,  it 
contains  the  Vichitr  Natak,  which  is  an  account 
of  the  life  and  mission  of  Govind  Singh,  and  other 
poems  calculated  to  stir  up  the  martial  valour  of  the 
Sikhs. 

The  Dadupanthis.— The  founder  of  the  sect  of 
Dadupanthis  was  Dadu  (1544-1603),  who  was  born  at 
Ahmedabad,  but  spent  most  of  his  life  in  Rajputana. 
According  to  common  report  he  was  a  cotton-carder 
by    caste,   but    the   tradition  of  his  followers   that  he 

1  Translation  by  Macauliffe,  "The  Sikh  Religion,"  Vol.  III.  202. 


THE  SUCCESSORS  OF  KABIR  65 

was  a  Brahman  is  probably  correct.  His  spirit  of 
forgiveness  and  kindness  (dayd)  was  so  great  that  he 
was  called  Dadu  Dayal.  His  teaching  is  very  similar 
to  that  of  Kabir,  but  is  not  so  much  affected  by 
Muhammadan  ideas.  Much  of  the  Hinduism  against 
which  Dadu  protested  has  found  its  way  back  into  the 
sect.  Dadu  rejected,  for  instance,  the  teaching  of  the 
Vedanta,  caste,  and  idolatry,  but  some  of  his  modern 
followers  are  Vedantists,  and  only  twice-born  Hindus 
are  allowed  to  read  the  Bani,  and  the  sect  has  no 
dealings  at  all  with  outcastes.  Moreover,  Da.dus  Bam 
is  worshipped  with  idolatrous  rites.  Dadu's  teaching 
was  spread  by  fifty-two  disciples.  His  doctrines 
are  contained  in  the  Bant,  a  book  of  about  five 
thousand  verses.  It  is  divided  into  thirty-seven 
chapters  dealing  with  such  subjects  as  the  Divine 
Teacher,  Remembrance,  Separation,  The  Meeting, 
The  Mind,  Truth,  The  Good,  Faith,  Prayer,  etc.  The 
verses  of  Dadu  are  very  attractive  and  have  a  musical 
rhythm,  and  hymns  which  are  included  amongst  them 
are  set  to  music  and  used  both  for  public  and  private 
worship.  The  following  is  a  translation  of  a  few  of 
Dadu's  verses  : — 

"  Receive  that  which  is  perfect  into  your  hearts  to  the  exclusion  of 
all  besides  ;  abandon  all  things  for  the  love  of  God,  for  this  Dadu 
declares  is  the  true  devotion. 

"  Cast  off  pride,  and  become  acquainted  with  that  which  is  devoid 
of  sin.  Attach  yourselves  to  Rama,  who  is  sinless,  and  suffer  the  thread 
of  your  meditations  to  be  upon  him. 

"  All  have  it  in  their  power  to  take  away  their  own  lives,  but  they 
cannot  release  their  souls  from  punishment  ;  for  God  alone  is  able  to 
pardon  the  soul,  though  few  deserve  His  mercy. 

"  Listen  to  the  admonitions  of  God,  and  you  will  care  not  for 
hunger  nor  for  thirst ;  neither  for  heat,  nor  cold  ;  ye  will  be  absolved 
from  the  imperfections  of  the  flesh. 

"  Draw  your  mind  forth,  from  within,  and  dedicate  it  to  God  ; 
because  if  ye  subdue  the  imperfections  of  your  flesh,  ye  will  think  only 
of  God. 

"  If  ye  call  upon  God,  ye  will  be  able  to  subdue  your  imperfec- 
tions, and  the  evil  inclinations  of  your  mind  will  depart  from 
you  ;  but  they  will  return  to  you  again  when  ye  cease  to  call  upon 
him. 

"Dadu  loved  Rama  incessantly;  he  partook  of  his  spiritual 
essence  and  constantly  examined  the  mirror,  which  was  within  him. 

5 


66       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

"He  subdued  the  imperfections  of  the  flesh,  and  overcame  all 
evil  inclinations  ;  he  crushed  every  improper  desire,  wherefore  the  light 
of  Rama  will  shine  upon  him."^ 

The  sect  which  Dadu  founded  has  a  very  large 
literature  in  Hindi.  Dadu's  two  sons  were  poets,  and 
all  his  fifty-two  disciples  are  reported  to  have  com- 
posed verses,  as  well  as  many  later  followers.  The 
most  important  poet  amongst  his  disciples  was  Sundar 
Das  the  younger  (fl.  1620-1650),  who  is  also  called 
Busar.  By  the  Dadupanthis  he  is  regarded  as  one  of 
the  best  Hindi  poets,  w^orthy  to  rank  amongst  the 
highest  names  in  Hindi  literature.  He  was  a  volumi- 
nous writer.  Amongst  his  most  admired  works  are  his 
Savaiyas  (sometimes  called  the  Siuidar  Bilas)  and  the 
Gya7i  Samudra.  Ni'schal  Das,  a  later  Dadupanthi  poet, 
introduced  Vedantic  ideas  into  the  teaching  of  the  sect. 

The  Lai  Dasis.— Z.fl/  Das,  who  died  in  1648,  was  the 
founder  of  a  sect  known  as  the  Lai  Dasls.  He  belonged 
to  Alwar,  and  came  from  a  predatory  tribe  called  the 
Meos.  Like  other  teachers  v^^hose  doctrines  can  be 
traced  to  Kabir's  influence  he  emphasized  the  value  of 
the  repetition  of  the  name  of  Rama.  His  teaching 
and  hymns  are  contained  in  a  work  called  the  Bam, 
The  members  of  the  sect  often  sing  the  hymns  to 
music. 

The  Sadhs.— The  sect  of  the  Sadhs  was  founded  in 
1658  by  Bir  Bhan,  and  is  found  chiefly  in  the  upper 
part  of  the  Doab.  Bir  Bhan  claimed  to  have  received 
his  doctrines  from  a  superhuman  instructor  in  the 
form  of  verses  {sabdas)  and  couplets  {sdklns).  These 
were  collected  into  a  volume  called  the  Adi  Upadesa 
("Original  Instruction").  These  verses,  together  with 
those  of  other  teachers  like  Kabir,  Nanak  and  Dadu, 
are  recited  at  the  meetings  of  the  sect. 

Dharni  Das.— Z)/z«/'?zz  Das  was  born  in  1656  and 
lived  at  the  village  of  Manjhi  in  the  district  of  Chhapra. 
He  was  a  Kayasth  by  caste,  and  became  a  devotee. 
He    founded   a  sect  which  still  survives.      He  is  the 

^  Translation  by  G.  R.  Siddons,  in  the  Journal  of  the  Asiatic 
Society  of  Bengal,  Vol.  VL  (1837). 


THE  SUCCESSORS  OF  KABIR  67 

reputed  author  of  two  Hindi  works,  the  Satya  Prakds 
and  the  Prem  Praka's. 

Some  Sufi  Poets.— A  Muhammadan  who  wrote  Hindi 
verses  was  Yarl  Sahib  (1668-1723).  He  seems  to 
have  been  a  Sufi,  and  lived  and  taught  at  Delhi„ 
Some  of  his  disciples  also  wrote  Hindi  verse,  such  as 
Ke'sav  Das  and  Bidla  Sahib,  both  of  whom  flourished 
about  1730.  A  disciple  of  Bulla  Sahib  was  Gulal  Sahib ^ 
and  the  latter  had  a  disciple  called  Bhlkha  Sahib.  Both 
of  these  flourished  in  the  latter  half  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  and  both  are  the  reputed  authors  of  Hindi 
verse.  Two  other  Hindi  writers  who  may  have  been 
connected  with  the  same,  or  a  similar  movement,  are 
Dariya  Sahib  of  Bihar,  and  Dariya  Sahib  of  Marwar, 
Both  of  these  were  Muhammadans  and  flourished  in  the 
first  half  of  the  eighteenth  century.  Another  Muham- 
madan writer  of  Hindi  verse  who  also  lived  in  the  first 
half  of  the  eighteenth  century  was  Biille  Shah,  and  was 
probably  a  Sufi. 

The  Charan  Dasis.— Charan Das(1703-1782)belonged 
to  the  Dhusar  caste  of  Baniyas.  About  the  year  1730 
he  founded  a  sect  at  Delhi,  which  still  exists.  He 
had  many  disciples  who  spread  his  teaching,  and  he 
admitted  as  disciples  not  only  men  but  women  also. 
His  teaching  is  very  similar  to  that  of  Kabir,  and 
emphasizes  such  doctrines  as  the  value  of  the  repetition 
of  the  name  of  God,  the  importance  of  the  word 
(sab da) ,  the  need  of  devotion  {bhakti),  and  the  neces- 
sity of  having  a  gtirti.  Idolatry  was  denounced  by 
Charan  Das,  but  has  crept  back  into  the  sect.  The 
gicric  holds  a  very  important  place  in  the  sect  and  is 
regarded  as  divine.  Like  similar  sects  it  has  a  large 
literature  in  Hindi,  and  great  stress  is  laid  on  this 
amongst  its  members,  the  use  of  Sanskrit  being 
discouraged.  The  sect  possesses  translations  in  Hindi 
of  the  Bhagavata  Purana  and  the  Bhagavad  did, 
which  are  said  to  have  been  made,  at  least  in 
part,  by  Charan  Das  himself.  Charan  Das  also  com- 
posed many  other  Hindi  works  which  are  much 
esteemed    by    his    followers.      Two    of    his     women 


68       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

disciples  were  poetesses.  These  were  Sahajo  Bdl  and 
Dayd  Bdl.  They  are  said  to  have  been  sisters  and  to 
have  belonged  to  the  same  caste  as  Charan  Das.  Their 
verses  are  of  considerable  merit  and  full  of  devotion. 
The  Dayd  Bodh  of  Day  a  Bai  was  composed  in  1751. 

The  Siv  Narayanis.— 52^  Ndrdyan  was  a  Rajput 
who  lived  near  Ghazipur.  In  1734  he  founded  a  sect 
which  worships  God  as  Brahman  without  attributes, 
and  rejects  idolatry.  Siv  Narayan  is  himself  regarded 
as  an  incarnation  by  his  followers.  Outward  con- 
formity to  the  observances  of  Hindus  and  Muhammadans 
is  permitted  and  people  of  all  castes  are  admitted  as 
members.  It  is  said  that  the  Emperor  Muhammad 
Shah  (1719-1748)  became  a  member  of  the  sect.  The 
founder  was  a  voluminous  writer  and  is  credited  with 
having  composed  sixteen  books  of  Hindi  verse. 

The  Garib  Dasis.— The  guru  of  Garib  Dds  (1717- 
1782)  is  said  to  have  been  Kabir,  which,  although  an 
anachronism,  seems  to  show  that  the  sect  he  founded 
sprang  from  the  Kablrpanthls.  This  sect,  which 
is  still  in  existence,  consists  only  of  sddhus,  who  must 
belong  to  the  twice-born  castes.  The  book  which  he 
composed,  called  the  Guru  Gra?ithSdhib,  contains  24,000 
sdkhis  and  chaupdls.  Of  these,  however,  7,000  are  said 
to  be  sdkhis  of  Kablr.  Garib  Das  lived  at  the  village  of 
Chhuranl  in  the  Rohtak  district  of  the  Panjab. 

The  Ram  Sanehis.— The  sect  of  Ram  Sanehis  was 
founded  by  Rdjn  Charan  (born  1718),  who  lived  in 
Rajputana.  He  was  at  first  an  idolater,  but  gave  up 
the  worship  of  idols  and  founded  the  sect  of  Rdm 
Sanehis,  or  ''Lovers  of  Rdm,''  The  sect  is  now  repre- 
sented merely  by  an  order  of  sddhus.  His  sayings 
and  hymns  have  been  collected  into  a  Bdnl.  The 
third  leader  of  the  sect,  named  Dulhd  Rdm,  who 
became  a  Ram  Sanehi  in  1776,  composed  about  10,000 
sab  das  and  4,000  sdkh-is.     He  died  in  1824. 

The  Satnamis  and  Jagjivarv  Das.— The  sect  of  the 
Satnamis  seems  to  have  been  founded  before  the 
middle  of  the  seventeenth  century,  but  the  circumstan- 
ces of  its  origin  are  unknown.       It  was   reorganised 


THE  SUCCESSORS  OF  KABIR  69 

about  1750  by  Jagjlvayi  Das,  who  lived  at  Kotwa, 
between  Lucknow  and  Ayodhya.  As  the  name  of  the 
sect  implies,  they  adore  the  True  Name  alone,  the 
one  God,  who  is  without  attributes,  but  the  Hindu 
pantheon  is  recognised  and  the  Hindu  incarnations 
regarded  as  the  manifestations  of  God.  Jagjivan  Das 
is  said  to  have  been  a  Kshatriya  by  caste,  but  the 
sect  has  spread  mostly  amongst  the  outcastes. 
The  Hindi  verses  of  Jagjivan  Das  are  in  several 
works,  which  include  the  Pratham  Gra7ith,  the 
Mahapralay,  and  the  Gyaii  Prakas.  A  disciple  of 
Jagjivan  named  Dulan  Das,  who  lived  in  the  district  of 
Rai  Bareilly,  was  also  a  Hindi  poet.  Other  successors 
of  Jagjivan  who  wrote  Hindi  verse  were  Jalall  Das 
and  Dez'i  Das.  A  development  of  the  Satnami  sect 
occurred  in  Chhattisgarh,  in  the  Central  Provinces, 
under  a  certain  Ghazi  Das,  between  1820  and  1830.  He 
introduced  the  ideas  of  the  sect  amongst  the  chamars 
of  that  district  though  he  did  not  acknowledge  his 
indebtedness  to  Jagjivan. 

The  Pran  Nathis.— /'ran  Nath  lived  at  Panna  in 
Bundelkhand  at  the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century, 
under  the  patronage  of  Raja  Chhatrasal.  He  was  the 
founder  of  a  small  sect  in  which  not  only  Hindu  and 
Muhammadan  but  also  Christian  influences  were  at 
work.  By  caste  Pran  Nath  was  a  Kshatriya,  but  he 
was  versed  in  Muhammadan  as  well  as  in  Hindu  learn- 
ing, and  he  endeavoured  to  reconcile  the  two  religions. 
The  members  of  his  sect  are  sometimes  called  Dhamis, 
from  Dham,  a  name  they  give  to  the  Supreme  spirit. 
They  eat  in  common,  but  continue  to  observe  the  Hindu 
or  Muhammadan  practices  of  their  own  families.  The 
works  of  Pran  Nath  are  fourteen  in  number,  all  in 
verse,  but  none  of  them  of  very  great  length.  Though 
the  grammatical  structure  is  purely  Hindi,  the  vocabu- 
lary is  very  largely  Arabic  or  Persian,  and  the  language 
is  very  uncouth. 

General  Characteristics.— All  the  writers  who  are 
mentioned  in  this  chapter  wrote  in  that  poetic  style 
which  is  classified  by  Indian  authorities   as   quietistic 


70       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

{santa  ras).  Much  of  their  verse  is  smooth  and  rhyth- 
mical, and  the  artistic  influences  which  had  come  into 
Hindi  literature  were  no  doubt  felt  by  them  to  a  certain 
extent.  But  their  interest  was  religious  rather  than 
literary,  and  few  of  them  rank  high  amongst  Hindi  poets. 
If  their  verses  are  less  rugged  than  those  of  Kabir,  they 
are  also  often  lacking  in  the  vigour  and  charm  which 
characterise  his  work.  The  subjects  dealt  with  in  these 
voluminous  works  are  not  very  extensive.  The  need  of 
a  guru  and  the  respect  due  to  him,  the  value  of  the 
repetition  of  the  name  of  God,  the  supreme  importance 
of  devotion  {bhakti) ,  the  delusions  of  may  a,  the  value 
of  truth,  the  duty  of  living  a  righteous  and  sober  life, 
these  and  a  few  kindred  topics  are  repeated  over  and 
over  again,  in  different  ways,  at  interminable  length, 
in  a  manner  which  to  the  ordinary  reader  is  apt  to  be 
tedious.  Nevertheless  there  are  many  striking  pas- 
sages to  be  found  w^hich  are  full  of  beauty  and  inculcate 
valuable  lessons.  During  the  greater  part  of  this 
period  the  North  of  India  was  passing  through  a  time 
of  great  political  change.  The  reign  of  Aurangzeb 
(1658-1707)  was  a  long  struggle  against  disintegrating 
forces,  and  after  him  the  political  disorder  grew  worse. 
Internecine  strife  and  rebellion  were  frequent.  The 
invasions  of  Nadir  Shah  (1739)  and  afterwards  of  Ahmad 
Shah  Durrani  (1756)  were  a  time  of  terrible  disaster. 
The  Marathas  also  were  constantly  attacking  the  Mughal 
Empire,  which  by  the  end  of  this  period  ceased  to 
exist  except  in  name.^  It  was  a  time  of  frequent 
calamity,  of  persecution'  and  tyranny  ;  but  during  this 
period  many  thoughtful  men  sought  peace  of  heart  in 
piety  and  quietism,  and  it  was  in  such  circumstances 
that  much  of  the  religious  verse  referred  to  in  this 
chapter  was  produced.  In  these  poems  the  writers  not 
only  expressed  their  own  aspiration  and  feeling  after 
God,  but  gave  forth  many  beautiful  thoughts  which 
were  a  solace  to  others  in  times  of  distress,  and  an 
incentive  to  them  to  live  nobly  and  to  seek  after  the 
highest  ends.  The  sects  whose  literature  is  described  in 
this  chapter  all  owe  something  to  Kabir,  in  some  cases 


THE  SUCCESSORS  OF  KABIR  71 

the  influence  being  direct  and  in  others  indirect.  They 
all  stand,  in  theory  at  least,  for  a  non-idolatrous  theism, 
and  a  great  many  of  their  theological  conceptions  are 
the  same  as,  or  similar  to,  those  which  Kabir  taught. 


VIII. 
THE   KRISHNA  CULT 

(1550-1800) 

The  Ashta  Chhap.— Vallabhacharya  and  his  son 
Vitthalnath,  who  have  been  mentioned  in  a  previous 
chapter  as  the  early  leaders  of  the  Vallabhachari  sect 
at  Gobardhan,  near  Muttra,  each  had  four  disciples,  all 
of  whom  were  Hindi  poets.  They  are  known  as  the 
Ashta  Chhap,  or  the  Eight  Seals,  or  Diestamps,  because 
the  poems  they  produced  are  regarded  as  standards 
for  that  dialect  of  Western  Hindi  in  which  they  wrote. 
This  dialect  was  the  Braj  Bhasha,  named  after  the 
district  in  which  they  lived,  namely  Muttra  and  Brinda- 
ban  and  the  surrounding  country.  Since  their  time 
almost  all  Hindi  poetry  connected  with  the  Krishna 
Cult  has  been  composed  in  Braj  Bhasha,  and  it  has 
also  come  to  be  looked  upon  as  the  poetic  dialect  of 
Hindi  par  excellence,  though  Tulsi  Das  and  most  of  the 
worshippers  of  Rama  wTote  in  Eastern  Hindi.  The 
disciples  of  Vallabhacharya  who  are  included  in  the 
Ashia  Chhap  were  Sur  Das,  Krishna  Das  Pay  Ahdrl, 
Parmd?iand  Das  and  Kumbhayi  Das.  Those  of  Vitthal- 
nath were  Chahirbhuj  Das,  Chhit  Svami,  Nand  Das 
and  Govi7id  Dds.  All  these  flourished  about  the  middle 
or  second  half  of  the  sixteenth  century. 

Krishna  Dds  Pay  Ahdrl  seems  to  have  been  a  rival 
of  Sur  Das,  though  not  equal  to  him  in  poetical  merit. 
He  was,  however,  the  writer  of  graceful  and  melodious 
stanzas.  His  best  known  work  is  called  the  Prem- 
sattvanirup.  Krishna  Das  had  several  pupils  who 
became  poets.     According  to  some  one  of  them  was 


THE  KRISHNA  CULT  73 

Agra  Das  (fl.  1575),  who  was  in  turn  the  preceptor  of 
Nabha  Das,  author  of  the  Bhaktamald. 

Nand  Das  holds,  next  to  Sur  Das,  the  highest  place 
as  a  poet  amongst  those  who  are  included  in  the  Ashia 
Chhap.  He  was  a  Brahman,  and  some  have  believed 
him  to  be  a  brother  of  the  great  Tulsi  Das.  There  is  a 
proverb  about  him  which  says,  A^ir  sab  gariya,  Nand 
Das  jariyd,  "All  others  are  simply  founders  (or  melters), 
but  Nand  Das  is  the  artificer  (who  joins  the  pieces  of 
metal  into  a  composite  whole).  "  He  was  the  author 
of  several  larger  w^orks  as  well  as  of  detached  verses. 
One  of  his  compositions  is  a  poem  in  imitation  of  the 
Sanskrit  Gitd  Govinda,  called  Pane  had  hydyi. 

Sur  Das.— The  greatest  of  all  the  Ashta  Chhdp,  how- 
ever, was  Sur  Dds.  The  particulars  of  his  life  are  very 
scanty  and  uncertain.  It  is  said  that  he  was  a  Brahman 
and  the  son  of  Baba  Ram  Das,  who  was  a  singer  at  the 
court  of  the  Emperor  Akbar.  At  the  age  of  eight  he 
went  with  his  parents  to  Muttra,  and  became  the  pupil 
of  a  devotee.  Afterwards  he  removed  to  Gau  Ghat, 
between  Agra  and  Muttra,  where  he  became  a  disciple 
of  Vallabhacharya.  In  the  commentary  which  he  him- 
self wrote  to  some  of  his  emblematic  verses  he  says  that 
he  was  a  descendant  of  the  famous  bard  Chand  Bardal, 
that  his  father's  name  was  Ram  Chandra,  and  that  his 
grandfather,  Hari  Chandra,  lived  at  Agra.  Some, 
however,  consider  him  to  be  a  Brahman  and  regard  the 
verse  where  this  information  is  given  as  spurious.  His 
father  lived  at  Gopchal  and  had  seven  sons,  six  of  whom 
were  killed  in  battle  with  the  Muhammadans.  He  alone, 
blind  (either  literally  or  figuratively)  and  worthless, 
as  he  says,  remained  alive.  He  had  a  vision  of  Krishna, 
and  thereafter  "all  was  darkness"  to  him,  which  may 
mean  he  became  blind.  He  went  to  live  at  Braj,  and 
became  one  of  the  Ashta  Chhdp.  Tradition  places  his 
birth  in  1483  and  his  death  in  1563,  but  these  dates 
are  uncertain.  All  the  traditions  agree  as  to  his 
blindness,  either  from  birth,  or  from  a  later  period  of 
his  life,  and  he  is  often  referred  to  as  "  the  blind  bard 
of  Agra." 


74       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

Sur  Das  excelled  in  many  styles  of  composition.  A 
large  number  of  episodes  and  passages  from  the 
Bhagavata  Parana  were  reproduced  by  him  in  exquisite 
verse,  and  he  was  the  writer  of  a  great  number  of  lyrics 
in  connection  with  the  worship  of  Krishna  and  Radha, 
which  were  collected  together  in  the  Sur  Sdgar  and 
the  Surdvali.  The  S dhity alahari  contains  emblematic 
verses  {Drishtakut) ,  for  which  Sur  Das  himself  wrote 
an  explanatory  commentary.  He  also  wrote  in  Hindi 
the  story  of  Nala  a?id  Darnayanti.  Altogether  he  is 
credited  with  having  composed  as  many  as  75,000  verses. 
Sur  Das  holds  a  very  high  place  in  literature.  Some 
Indian  authorities  would  give  him  the  foremost  place 
amongst  Hindi  poets,  though  most  persons  would  reserve 
that  honour  for  Tulsi  Das.  An  often  quoted  couplet 
referring  to  Hindi  poetry  says,  "Sur  is  the  sun,  Tulsi 
the  moon,  Ke^av  Das  is  a  cluster  of  stars,  but  the  poets 
of  to-day  are  like  so  many  glow-worms  giving  light 
here  and  there."  Sur  Das  is  undoubtedly  a  poet  of 
great  power.  He  is  considered  to  excel  in  his  use  of  all 
the  ornaments  of  style  recognized  by  the  authorities  on 
Hindi  poetry  and  in  his  use  of  images  and  similes.  An 
anonymous  poet  of  Akbar's  court  said  with  regard  to 
him,  "  Gang  excels  in  sonnets  and  Birbal  in  the  kavitta 
metre  ;  Kesav's  meaning  is  ever  profound,  but  Sur 
possesses  the  excellency  of  all  three." 

A  few  specimens  of  his  work  are  given  here  : — 

All  days  are  not  alike  ; 

One  day  King  Harischandra  had  in  his  power  wealth  like  Mount 

Meru  ; 
The  next  day  he  went  to   live  in    the   house  of    a   Chandal,    and 

removed  clothes  from  the  burying-ground. 
One  day  a  man  is  a  bridegroom,  attended  by  a  bridal  company, 

and  in  every  direction  flags  are  placed  ; 
The  next  day  he  has  to  live  in  the  forest,  and  there  stretches  forth 

hands  and  legs. 
One  day  Sita  is  crying  in  a  very  terrible  forest  ; 
The  next  day  having  become  re-united  with    Ramchandra,    both 

go  about  in  ?  balloon  of  flowers. 
One   day    Raja    Yudhishthir    was  reigning    with    Sri    Bhagwan 

(Krishna)  as  his  follower  ; 
The  next  day  (his  wife)  Draupadi  is  made  naked,   and   Du^asan 

takes  away  her  clothes. 


THE  KRISHNA  CULT  75 

The  doings  of  the  former  birth  appear  ;  O  foolish  mind,  give  up 

anxiety  ; 
Sur  Das  says,  "  How  far  can  I  describe  the  qualities?     True  are 

letters  written  by  the  Creator  (on  the  forehead)." 

Without  Gopal  these  bowers  become  like  enemies. 
In  those  days  (when  he  was  here)  these  creepers  seemed  very  cool, 
Now  they  have  become  a  heap  of  fiery  flames. 
In  vain  the  Riverjamuna  is  flowing,  and  the  birds  twitter  ; 
In  vain  the  lotuses  are  blooming,  and  the  black  bee  hums  ; 
Sur  Das  says,  "  Looking  for  the  lord,  my  eyes  have  become  red 
like  the  ghunghchi  seed.  " 

***** 

Night  and  day  my  eyes  shed  tears  ; 

It  is  always  the  rainy  season  with  me,  since  Syam  went  away. 

The  collyrium  does    not  stay  on    my   eyes,    my   hands   and    my 

cheeks  have  become  dark. 
The  cloth  of  my  bodice  never  gets  dry,  because  the  heart  in  the 

midst  of  it  is  running  like  a  stream  of  water. 
My  eyes  have  become  rivers,   my  limbs  tired,    and   the  fixed  stars 

are  moving  away. 
Sur  Das  says,    "  Braj  is   now   being  submerged    (in  tears),    why 

do  you  not  deliver  it  ?" 

The  Chaurasi  Varta.— An  important  work  which 
belongs  to  this  period  is  the  Chaurasi  Vdrtd  (or 
* 'Eighty-four  Tales"),  reputed  to  have  been  written 
by  Gokubidth  (fl.  1568),  the  son  of  Vitthalnath.  It  is 
earlier  in  date  than  the  Bhaktamdld,  and  whereas  the 
Bhaktanidld  contains  accounts  of  devotees  of  various 
Vaishnava  sects,  the  Chaurasi  Vdrtd  is  devoted  exclu- 
sively to  stories,  mostly  legendary,  of  the  followers 
of  Vallabhacharya.  It  lays  a  great  deal  of  stress  on 
the  erotic  side  of  the  Krishna  legends.  From  the  point 
of  view  of  the  literature  it  is  very  important  as  being 
written  in  prose,  of  which  it  is  one  of  the  earliest 
specimens.  It  is  written  in  a  very  clear  and  easy  style, 
and  although  written  three  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago 
the  language  used  differs  very  little  from  the  modern 
Braj  dialect. 

Other  early  Vallabhacharis.— Two  or  three  other 
early  members  of  the  Vallabhachari  sect  who  were 
Hindi  poets  m.ust  also  be  mentioned.  Bhagwd^i  Hit 
(fl.  circ.  1574)   is  said     to     have    been   a     disciple     of 


76       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

Vitthalnath.  He  was  the  author  of  some  Krishnaite 
lyrics  of  considerable  merit.  Raskhd?i  (fl.  1614) 
was  a  Muhammadan  at  first  and  his  name  was  then 
Sayyad  Ibrahim.  He  became  a  worshipper  of  Krishna 
and  wrote  verses  in  his  honour  which  are  said  to  be 
full  of  devotion  and  sweetness.  A  disciple  of  Raskhan 
was  Oadir  Baksh,  who  also  wrote  Hindi  poetry. 

The  Radha-Vallabhis.— A  new  sect  was  founded  in 
Brindaban  about  1585  known  as  the  Radha-Vallabhls. 
In  this  sect  Radha  is  placed  above  Krishna  as  an  object 
of  devotion.  Its  founder  was  Ha^-i  Vamsa  (also  called 
Hit  Haribayis,  or  Hit  Ji) .  His  father  was  a  Gaur  Brah- 
man named  Vyasa,  who  was  in  the  service  of  the 
Muhammadan  Emperor.  Hari  Varh^a  wrote  in  Sans- 
krit the  Radha- sudha-nidhi,  which  consists  of  170  coup- 
lets. His  principal  work  in  Hindi  is  the  Chaurasi  Pad 
(or  Premlata) .  The  erotic  side  of  the  Krishna  cult  is 
very  prominent  in  these  works  and  they  are  full  of 
sensuous  imagery,  but  Hari  Varh^a  possesses  great 
skill  as  a  poet  and  holds  a  high  place  in  Hindi  literature. 
A  few  stanzas  are  here  given  : — 

"  Whatever  my  Beloved  doeth  is  pleasing  to  me  ;  and  whatever  is 
pleasing  to  me,  that  my  Beloved  doeth.  The  place  where  I  would  be 
is  in  my  Beloved's  eyes  ;  and  my  Beloved  would  fain  be  the  apple  of 
my  eyes.  My  Love  is  dearer  to  me  than  body,  soul,  or  life  ;  and  my 
Love  would  lose  a  thousand  lives  for  me.  Rejoice,  Sri  Hit  Hari  Vans  ! 
the  loving  pair,  one  dark,  one  fair,  are  like  two  cygnets  ;  tell  us  who 
can  separate  wave  from  water  ? 

"  O  my  Beloved,  has  the  fair  spoken  ?  this  is  surely  a  beautiful 
night ;  the  lightning  is  folded  in  the  lusty  cloud's  embrace.  O  friend, 
where  is  the  woman,  who  could  quarrel  with  so  exquisite  a  prince  of 
gallants  ?  Rejoice,  Sri  Hari  Vans  !  dear  Radhika  hearkened  with 
her  ears  and  with  voluptuous  emotion  joined  in  love's  delight. 


"  Come  Radha,  you  knowing  one,  your  paragon  of  lovers  has 
started  a  dance  on  the  bank  of  the  Jamuna's  stream.  Bevies  of 
damsels  are  dancing  in  all  the  abandonment  of  delight ;  the  joyous 
pipe  gives  forth  a  stirring  sound.  Near  the  Bansi-bat,  a  sweetly  pretty 
spot,  where  the  spicy  air  breathes  with  delicious  softness,  where  the 
half-opened  jasmine  fills  the  world  with  overpowering  fragrance, 
beneath  the  clear  radiance  of  the  autumnal  full  moon,  the  milkmaids 
with  raptured  eyes  are  gazing  on  your  glorious  lord,  all  beautiful  from 
head  to  foot,  quick  to  remove  love's  every  pain.     Put  your  arms  about 


THE  KRISHNA  CULT  77 

his  neck,  fair  dame,  pride  of  the  world,  and,  lapped  in  the  bosom  of  the 
Ocean  of  delight,  disport  yourself  with  Syam  in  his  blooming  bower. "^ 

Many  members  of  this  sect  have  been  Hindi  poets, 
amongst  whom  we  may  mention  Nagari  Das,  who 
flourished  at  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century,  Dhruv 
Das  (fl.  circ.  1630),  who  was  a  very  voluminous  writer, 
and  Sri  Hit  Briiidabayi  Das  Jl  Chacha  (fl.  1743).  All 
these  were  poets  of  some  merit,  especially  the  last, 
who  wrote  many  verses  of  great  beauty  in  praise  of 
Krishna. 

The  Hari  Dasis.— Another  sect  at  Brindaban  is  that 
of  the  Hari  Dasis.  It  was  founded  by  Svami  Hari 
DdSy  who  lived  at  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century 
and  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
His  teaching  seems  to  be  closely  akin  to  that  of 
Chaitanya.  Besides  works  in  Sanskrit  he  left  poems 
in  Hindi.  The  best  known  are  the  Sadharan  Siddhd?it 
and  the  Ras  Ke  Pad.  Hari  Das  possessed  considerable 
merit  as  a  poet.  Here  are  a  few  stanzas  of  the 
Sadharan  Siddhdnt  . — 

"  Set  your  affection  on  the  lotus-eyed,  in  comparison  with  whose 
love  all  love  is  worthless  ;  or  on  the  conversation  of  the  saints  :  that 
so  the  sin  of  your  soul  may  be  effaced.  The  love  of  Hari  is  like  the 
durable  dye  of  the  madder  ;  but  the  love  of  the  world  is  like  a  stain 
of  saffron  that  lasts  only  for  two  days.  Says  Hari  Das,  Set  your  affec- 
tion on  Bihari,  and  he  knowing  your  heart  will  remain  with  you 
for  ever. 

"  A  straw  is  at  the  mercy  of  the  wind,  that  blows  it  about  as  it 
will  and  carries  it  whither  it  pleases.  So  is  the  realm  of  Brahma,  or 
of  Siva,  or  this  present  world.  Says  Sri  Hari  Das  :  This  is  my  conclu- 
sion, I  have  seen  none  such  as  Bihari. 

"  Man  is  like  a  fish  in  the  ocean  of  the  world,  and  other  living 
creatures  of  various  species  are  as  the  crocodiles  and  alligators,  while 
the  soul  like  the  wind  spreads  the  entangling  net  of  desire.  Again, 
avarice  is  as  a  cage,  and  the  avaricious  as  divers,  and  the  four  objects 
of  life  as  four  compartments  of  the  cage.  Says  Hari  Das,  Those 
creatures  only  can  escape  who  ever  embrace  the  feet  of  the  son  of  bliss. 

"  Fool,  why  are  you  slothful  in  Hari's  praises  ?  Death  goeth 
about  with  his  arrows  ready.  He  heedeth  not  whether  it  be  in  season 
or  out  of  season,  but  has  ever  his  bow  on  his  shoulder.  What  avail 
heaps  of  pearls  and  other  jewels  and  elephants  tied  up  at  your  gate  ? 
Says  Sri  Hari  Das,  Though  your  queen  in  rich  attire  await  you  in  her 

*  Translation  from  Mr.  F.  S.  Growse's  Mathura,  pp.  196  ff. 


78       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

chamber,   all   goes  for  nothing  when   the  darkness  of  your  last  day 
draweth  nigh."  ^ 

Hari  Das  was  succeeded  as  leader  of  the  sect  by 
Vitthal  Vipul,  and  the  latter  by  Biharini  Das.  Both 
these  were  Hindi  poets,  Biharini  Das  being-  a  very  volu- 
minous one.  In  his  numerous  verses  he  uses  the  most 
erotic  language  to  express  the  intensity  of  his  religious 
devotion.  Sltal  (fi.  1723),  who  was  a  leader  of  the  sect, 
was  also  a  skilful  poet.  Sahachari  Sara7i  (fl.  1763)  also 
belonged  to  the  Hari  Dasis.  Amongst  his  works  is  the 
Lalit  Prakds,  which  contains  sayings  of  Hari  Das,  the 
founder  of  the  sect. 

Other  Writers  of  Krishna  Vo^r^o-.—  Gadd  Dhar  Bhatt 
(fl.  1565)  w^as  a  Krishnaite  belonging  to  the  sect  of 
Chaitanya  and  wrote  verses  of  considerable  merit 
in  Krishna's  honour.  Bihdri  Ldl  Chaiibe,  whose  work 
has  been  described  in  a  previous  chapter  as  a  writer  on 
the  art  of  poetry,  was  also  connected  with  the  Krishna 
Cult.  Most  of  the  verses  in  his  famous  Sat  Sal  deal 
with  some  phase  or  other  of  the  story  of  Krishna.  Other 
writers  on  the  art  of  poetry  also  wrote  Krishnaite 
verse. 

Tdf,  who  flourished  in  the  first  half  of  the  seven- 
teenth century,  was  the  wife  of  a  Muhammiadan,  but 
was  a  worshipper  of  Krishna.  She  wrote  some  much 
admired  verses  in  his  honour. 

Bliishma  (fl.  circ.  1650)  translated  the  famous  tenth 
chapter  of  the  Bhdgavata  Piirdna  into  Hindi  verse, 
under  the  title  Bdl  Mukicnd  Llld. 

Bakhshi  Hahsrdj  (fl.  1732) was  a  Kayasth  of  Panna, 
who  was  a  skilful  poet.  He  wrote  the  Sajieh  Sdgar, 
which  is  an  account  of  Radha  and  Krishna,  as  well  as 
some  other  works. 

Md7i,  a  Brahman  of  Baiswara,  wrote  in  1761  a  trans- 
lation of  the  Krishna  Khanda  entitled  Krishna  Kallol. 

A  famous  work  in  connection  with  the  Krishna 
Cult  is  the  Braj  Bilds  (1770).  It  was  the  work  of 
Braj  Bdsi  Dds,  of  Brindaban,  and  contains  a  description 

^  Translation  from  Mr.  F.S.  Growse's  Mathura,  p.  210. 


THE  KRISHNA  CULT  79 

of  Krishna's  life  during  his  residence  at  Brindaban„ 
Braj  BasI  Das  belonged  to  the  sect  of  Vallabhacharls. 

Su7idari  Kunwari  Box  (fi.  1760  to  1798)  was  a 
princess  of  the  Rathor  family,  and  daughter  of  Raj 
Singh,  Maharaja  of  Rupnagar  and  Krishnagarh.  She 
was  married  to  Bal  Bhadra  Singh,  Maharaja  of 
Raghavgarh.  Many  of  her  family  were  poets,  and  this 
lady  wrote  a  large  number  of  poems  full  of  religious 
devotion,  many  of  which  are  in  honour  of  Krishna. 

Manchit  Dvij  (fi.  circ.  1779),  of  Bundelkhand,  was 
the  author  of  Sicrbhldanllla,  which  is  an  account  of  the 
childhood  of  Krishna,  and  Krishnayan,  which  is  a  life  of 
Krishna.  His  poems  are  considered  to  be  of  a  very 
high  standard  of  poetic  excellence. 

Bibi  Ratan  Kunwdr',  of  Benares,  was  born  about 
1842.  She  was  the  grandmother  of  Raja  Siv  Prasad, 
who  helped  to  develop  Hindi  literature  in  the  nine- 
teenth century.  In  the  Pre7?i  Ratiia  she  has  given  an 
account  of  the  devotees  of  Krishna,  and  in  addition  she 
was  the  authoress  of  many  other  verses. 

General  Remarks  on  Krishnaite  Literature.— A  great 
deal  of  the  poetry  connected  with  the  Krishna  Cult 
deals  with  the  amours  of  Krishna  with  the  Gopis 
(milkmaids)  of  Braj,  and  especially  with  Radha.  The 
great  Hindu  teachers  of  bhakii  threw  a  mystical 
glamour  over  these  stories.  Krishna  was  to  them  the 
Supreme  Deity,  from  whom  all  creation  was  but 
a  sportive  emanation,  and  who  was  full  of  love  to  his 
devotees.  Radha  and  the  other  Gopis  stood  for  human 
souls,  of  whom  Radha  especially  typified  the  devotee, 
ready  to  offer  her  whole  self  in  devotion  to  God.  In 
the  literature  connected  w4th  this  form  of  the  bhakti 
movement  the  writers  often  use  the  most  erotic  language 
and  sensuous  imagery  to  describe  the  soul's  devotion, 
under  the  picture  of  Radha' s  self-abandonment  to  her 
beloved.  Many  of  the  verses  could  not  be  translated 
into  English.  Yet  the  writers  of  these  lyrics  of 
passionate  devotion  were  often  men  of  real  religious 
earnestness,  quite  free  from  any  impure  motives  in 
composing   them.     That   literature    of   this    kind  has, 


80       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

however,   a   very   dangerous   tendency   has   too   often 
heen  shown  in  the  history  of  the  Krishna  movement. 

Many  of  the  writers  mentioned  in  this  chapter 
were  poets  of  very  high  merit.  The  artistic  influences 
which  had  come  into  Hindi  literature  are  to  be  seen 
in  a  very  marked  degree  in  their  work.  Muttra, 
which  was  the  centre  of  the  movement,  was  in  close 
proximity  to  the  Mughal  court,  and  Sur  Das  is  said 
hy  tradition  to  have  had  some  connection  with  the 
court.  But,  through  whatever  channel  the  influence 
came,  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  poets  of  Braj  felt  very 
strongly  the  tendencies  towards  the  perfection  of  the 
poetic  art,  and  the  excellency  and  fame  of  their  poetry 
was  so  great  that  from  their  time  onwards  Braj  Bhasha 
came  to  be  regarded  as  the  chief  poetic  dialect  of 
Hindi. 


IX. 
BARDIC  AND   OTHER  LITERATURE 

(1550-1800) 

Bards  of  Mcwar.— The  succession  of  bards  in  the 
various  kingdoms  of  Rajputana  and  other  parts  of 
Hindustan  was  continued  right  down  to  modern  times, 
and  Mewar  was  one  of  the  states  where  great  en- 
couragement was  given  to  them.  A  chronicle  of  the 
time  of  Rana  Jagat  Singh,  of  Mewar,  who  reigned  from 
1628  to  1654,  called  the  Jagat  Bilds,  was  written  by  an 
unknown  bard.  The  successor  of  Jagat  Singh,  Rana 
Raj  Singh  (1654-1681),  who  was  the  famous  opponent 
of  Aurangzeb,  was  a  great  patron  of  poets.  The 
chronicle  of  his  time,  called  Raj  Prakds,  was  also 
written  by  an  anonymous  bard.  At  the  suggestion  of 
Rana  Raj  Singh  his  poet-laureate,  Md7i  (fl.  1660), 
wrote  the  Raj  Dev  Bilds,  which  describes  the  struggle 
between  Aurangzeb  and  Raj  Singh.  Another  poet  who 
lived  at  his  court  was  Saddsiv  (fl.  1660),  who  wrote  his 
patron's  life  under  the  title  Rdj  Rat7idkar.  The  son 
of  Raj  Singh  was  Rana  Jai  Singh  (1681-1700)  and  he 
also  was  a  patron  of  poets.  A  work  which  he  had 
written  by  poets  at  his  court  was  the  Jai  Dev  Bilds^ 
which  is  a  series  of  lives  of  the  kings  whom  he  had 
conquered.  Another  author  of  a  bardic  chronicle  of 
Mewar,  entitled  Rdj  Pattand,  was  Ran  Chhor,  whose 
date  is  doubtful. 

Bards  of  Marwar. — In  Marwar  also  great  patronage 
was  given  to  poets.  Maharaja  Sur  Singh  is  said  in 
one  day  to  have  distributed  six  lakhs  of  rupees  to 
six  poets  at  his  court.  His  son  Gaj  Singh  was  also 
a  patron  of  poets,  as  well  as  his  grandson  Amar  Singh. 

6 


82       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

Amar  Singh  quarrelled  with  his  father  and  was 
exiled.  He  went  to  the  court  of  the  Emperor  Shah 
Jahan,  but  in  revenge  for  a  slight  he  attempted  to 
murder  the  Emperor,  and  was  cut  down  after  killing 
a  number  of  courtiers.  Among  the  poets  patronised 
by  Amar  Singh  were  Banwdrl  Lai,  who  wrote  a 
panegyric  of  his  patron,  and  Raghu  Nath  Ray,  both 
of  whom  flourished  about  1634.  Maharaja  Ajit  Singh, 
of  Jodhpur  in  Marwar  (1681-1724),  had  a  work  written 
entitled  the  Raj  Rupakakhyat,  which  contains  a  history 
of  his  family  from  the  commencement  of  the  solar  race 
to  1724.  Karan  was  the  poet  and  bard  of  Jodhpur  at 
the  time  of  Maharaja  Abhay  Singh  (1724-1750),  son  of 
Ajit  Singh.  In  his  poem,  called  the  Surya  Prakds,  he 
wrote  a  history  of  the  period  from  1638  to  1731  in  7,500 
lines.  Maharaja  Vijai  Singh,  who  reigned  at  Jodhpur 
from  1753  to  1784,  was  himself  a  poet,  and  he  also  had 
a  work  written,  entitled  the  Vijai Bilds,  which  gives  an 
account  in  100,000  couplets  of  the  war  between  Vijai 
Singh  and  his  cousin  Ram  Singh. 

Bards  at  Other  Courts.— Other  courts  also  had  their 
poets.  The  rebellion  of  Jagat  Singh,  of  Mhow,  against 
Shah  Jahan  was  celebrated  by  a  bard  named  Gambhir 
Ray  (fl.  1650).  In  honour  of  Rav  Ratan  (fl.  1650), 
great-grandson  of  Raja  Uday  Singh,  an  anonymous 
bard  wrote  a  history  called  Rav  Ratari  Rdysd.  Jai 
Singh  Sawdt,  of  Jaipur  (reigned  1699-1743),  was  not 
only  a  patron  of  poets  but  wrote  his  own  autobio- 
graphy, entitled  Jai  Singh  Kalpadrum  Jai  Singh 
Sawai's  brother-in-law,  Buddh  Rav,  Raja  of  Bundi, 
was  also  a  poet  and  a  patron  of  poets.  Jodhrdj 
(fl.  1728)  was  a  Brahman,  who  wrote  the  Hammlr  Kdvya 
at  the  orders  of  the  Maharaja  of  Nimrana,  which  deals 
with  the  same  incidents  formerly  described  by  the  bard 
Sarang  Dhar,  who  lived  in  the  fourteenth  century. 
Ghan  Sydm  Sukla  (fl.  circ.  1680)  attended  the  court  of 
the  Raja  of  Rewah  and  wrote  in  his  praise.  He  also 
attended  the  court  of  the  Raja  of  Benares.  His 
poems  are  considered  to  be  of  great  merit.  Harikesh 
(fl.   1731)    attended   the   court   of  Raja   Chhatrasal,  of 


BARDIC  AND  OTHER  LITERATURE    83 

Panna.  He  excelled  in  the  heroic  style.  Sudan 
(fl.  1750)  was  a  Brahman,  who  was  patronised  by 
Suraj  Mai,  a  son  of  the  Maharaja  of  Bharatpur.  He 
wrote  the  Sujdn  Charitr,  which  is  an  account  of  the 
battles  in  which  Suraj  Mai  took  part.  Sudan  is  con- 
sidered to  be  an  excellent  narrative  poet,  especially 
in  his  account  of  the  preparations  for  a  battle,  but 
he  was  not  equal  to  Lai  Kavi  in  his  description  of 
the  battle  itself.  A  bard  who  wrote  in  the  Maithili 
dialect  of  Bihari  was  Lai  J  ha  (fl.  1780),  one  of  the  most 
famous  poets  of  Mithila.  He  was  the  author  of  a  poem 
called  Kanarpi  Ghat  Larai,  which  is  a  description  of 
the  battle  of  Kanarpi  Ghat,  in  w^hich  his  patron  Maha- 
raja Narendra  Smgh,  of  Darbhanga,  was  victorious. 

Lai  Kavi.— At  the  court  of  Raja  Chhatrasal  (1646- 
1731) ,  who  ruled  at  Panna  in  Bundelkhand  and  was 
himself  a  poet,  much  encouragement  was  given 
to  men  of  letters.  The  most  famous  of  these  was 
Ldl,  generally  known  as  Ldl  Kavi.  His  full  name 
was  Goreldl  Pzirohit.  Besides  waiting  a  treatise  on 
lovers,  he  wrote  in  Braj  Bhasha  verse  a  celebrated 
work  entitled  Chhatra  Prakd's.  It  gives  an  account  of 
the  wars  and  order  of  succession  of  the  ancient  Rajas 
of  Bundelkhand,  and  the  life  of  Chhatrasal  and 
that  of  his  father  are  related  with  great  detail.  Lai 
Kavi  achieved  great  excellence  as  a  narrative  poet, 
especially  in  his  description  of  a  battle.  The  follow- 
ing is  the  account  in  the  Chhatra  Prakd's  of  Raja 
Chhatrasal's  bravery  at  the  battle  of  Deogarh  : — 

"  Raja  Chhatrasal,  valiant  in  war,  dreadful  in  battle,  famed  for 
heroic  achievements,  active,  vigorous,  and  powerful  as  a  tiger,  pene- 
trated into  the  midst  of  the  Deogarh  Raja's  army  ;  while  thousands  of 
balls  and  arrows  discharged  at  him  fell  like  rain  around.  Firm  and 
undaunted,  redoubling  his  efforts  he  furiously  attacked  the  numerous 
troops  by  whom  he  was  surrounded.  Entirely  disregarding  balls  and 
bullets,  he  inflicted  and  received  wounds  in  the  enemy's  ranks.  The 
foe  was  confounded .  The  gods  were  amazed  at  the  fighting  of  Chhatra- 
sal ;  and,  while  repelling  the  attack  of  thousands,  and  scattering 
death  and  destruction  around,  Kali  delighted  to  see  his  sword-dance. 
His  progress  no  one  could  stop  ;  for,  as  soon  as  an  antagonist  had 
raised  his  sword,  Chhatrasal,  by  superior  dexterity,  inflicted  a  wound  ; 
and  he  was  equally  skilful  in  the  use  of  the  spear.     Separated   from   his. 


84       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

troops,  and  surrounded  by  foes,  he  fought  his  way  from  one  flank  of 
their  army  to  the  other.  Wherever  he  went,  victory  followed.  Disre- 
garding severe  wounds,  he  renewed  the  attack,  fighting  with  such 
impetuosity  and  fury,  that  the  enemy,  believing  him  to  be  Kal  Rudra, 
took  to  flight,  and  abandoned  the  field.  Chhatrasal  obtained  lasting 
fame  and  renown:  for  the  enemy  fled  like  deer  from  a  tiger.  The 
kettle-drums  sounded  strains  of  victory,  and  Bahadur  Khan  ordered 
the  camp  to  be  pitched."^ 

Other  Literature  of  the  Period.— Besides  the  litera- 
ture we  have  already  mentioned  in  this  and  the 
preceding  chapters,  there  were  many  other  writers  on 
a  variety  of  subjects  during  the  period.  There  are 
works  dealing  with  the  philosophy  of  the  Vedanta, 
works  connected  with  the  Jain  religion,  works  on 
morals  {^iitt),  comic  verses,  and  a  great  many  other 
topics,  including  text-books  on  such  subjects  as  lexi- 
cography, agriculture,  astronomy,  and  veterinary  sur- 
gery.    A  few  of  the  authors  may  be  mentioned  here  : — 

Ndtk  Kavi  (b.  1584),  who  dwelt  in  Braj,  wrote 
poems  on  the  seasons  and  other  subjects. 

Mubarak  All  (b.  1583),  of  Bilgram  in  the  district  of 
Hardoi,  was  the  author  of  a  large  number  of  short 
verses  which  are  still  current. 

iVa^zV  (fi.  before  1600),  of  Agra,  was  a  versatile 
poet  of  considerable  fame  whose  verses  are  very 
popular  and  often  quoted,  though  many  of  them  are 
said  to  be  indecent. 

Ba7idrsl  Das  (b.  1586)  was  a  follower  of  the  Jain 
religion.  He  lived  at  Jaunpur  and  died  sometime  after 
1641.  His  works  are  full  of  religious  teaching  and  he 
is  much  admired  as  a  poet.  In  his  most  famous  work 
he  gives  an  account  of  his  own  life. 

Sri  Dhar  (b.  1623),  of  Rajputana,  was  the  author  of  a 
work  in  honour  of  Durga  and  entitled  Bhawdyfi  Chhand. 

Ghdsi  Rmi  (fi.  circ.  1623)  was  a  poet  of  considerable 
merit,  who  wrote  on  love,  morals  and  other  subjects. 

Puhakar  (fl.  1634)  was  a  Kayasth  who  lived  during 
the  time  of  Jahangir.  He  was  in  prison  for  some 
offence    and   while    there    composed    the    Ras    Rata?i. 

^  Translation  by  W.  R.  Pogson,  A  History  of  the  Boondelas. 


BARDIC  AND  OTHER  LITERATURE    85 

When  Jahangir  heard  of  this  he  pardoned  him.  The 
poem  is  in  the  form  of  a  story. 

Damodar  Das  (fl.  circ.  1660)  belonged  to  the  sect 
of  the  Dadupanthis.  He  translated  the  Markandeya 
Purana  into  Rajasthani.  This  work  is  of  interest  as 
being  in  prose  instead  of  verse. 

Chhatra  (fl.  1700),  a  Kayasth  of  Anter  village  in 
Gwalior,  was  the  author  of  the  Vijai  Muktavall.  This 
is  an  abstract  of  the  Mahabharata  in  Hindi  verse. 

Sabal  Singh  (b.  1670)  belonged  to  a  ruling  family. 
He  also  was  the  author  of  a  condensed  metrical 
translation  of  24,000  verses  of  the  Mahabharata. 

Baital  (b.  1677)  attended  the  court  of  Vikram 
Sahi.  He  wrote  moral  and  occasional  verses  and, 
though  no  complete  work  of  his  is  extant,  his  verses  are 
much  admired. 

Devi  Das  (fl.  1685)  belonged  to  Bundelkhand. 
Under  the  patronage  of  Raja  Ratan  Pal  Singh,  of 
Karauli,  he  wrote  a  much  admired  work  on  morals  called 
P7'em  Ratnakar.  He  was  also  the  author  of  numerous 
other  works. 

Moti  Ram  (b.  1683)  was  the  author  of  the  Braj 
Bhasha  version  of  a  story  called  Mddho?ial,  which  was 
afterwards  translated  into  Urdu  by  Lallu  Ji  Lai. 

Bhu  Dhar  Das  (fl.  1724)  was  a  Jain  who  wrote 
works  connected  with  the  Jain  religion,  including  the 
Jai7i  Satak  and  the  Pdrsva  Purdn.  He  is  considered 
to  possess  considerable  power  as  a  poet. 

Ghdgh  (b.  1696),  of  Kanauj,  wrote  on  the  subject  of 
agriculture.  His  aphorisms  have  a  wide  currency  in 
North  India. 

Gahgd  Pail  (fl.  1719)  was  the  author  of  a  poem 
dealing  with  the  different  philosophical  doctrines  of  the 
Hindus.  It  is  called  Vigyd?i  Bilds,  and  is  written  in 
the  form  of  a  dialogue  between  a  g7ir7i  (teacher)  and 
his  chela  (disciple).  A  mystic  life  based  on  the 
Vedanta  philosophy  is  advocated. 

Kripd  Rd77i  (fl.  1720)  was  an  astronomer  at  the 
court  of  Raja  Jai  Singh  Sawai,  of  Jaipur,  and  wrote  a 
work  in  Hindi  on  astronomy. 


86       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

Giri  Dhar  (b.  1713),  of  the  Doab,  wrote  verses  on 
morals  {niti)  and  occasional  pieces  which  are  much 
admired.  He  used  the  kundaliya  metre  of  which  some 
critics  consider  him  to  be  the  greatest  master.  His 
verses  abound  in  colloquialisms  and  many  of  them  have 
become  proverbs. 

Sn  Nagarl  Das  (fl.  1723)  was  Maharaja  of  Krishna- 
garh  in  Rajputana.  His  real  name  was  Savat  Singh,  but 
he  adopted  the  name  of  Nagari  Das  as  his  noyn  de  plume. 
He  was  a  poet  of  considerable  merit  besides  being  a 
king  of  great  valour. 

Nur  Miihammad  (fl.l743)  was  the  author  of  the 
Indravati.  It  is  a  love  story  similar  to  the  Padiimdvaii 
of  Malik  Muhammad.  It  is  considered  to  be  a  well- 
written  poem. 

Mayibodh  Jha  (fi.  1750),  also  known  as  Bholan  Jhd, 
of  the  district  of  Darbhanga,  was  one  of  the  most 
celebrated  poets  in  the  Maithili  dialect  of  Bihari.  He 
wrote  a  version  of  the  Harivamsa  of  which  only  ten 
sections  have  been  preserved.  These,  however,  are 
very  popular. 

Nidhdri  (fl.l751)  and  Dayd  Nidhi  (h.  1754)  each 
wrote  a  treatise  on  veterinary  surgery  under  the  title 
ScLlihotr. 

Ram  Chandra  was  a  Brahman  who  flourished  at  the 
end  of  the  eighteenth  century.  He  wrote  a  work  in 
five  books  in  honour  of  the  feet  of  Parvati,  entitled 
Char  an  Cha?idrikd.  It  is  considered  to  be  a  work  of 
great  poetic  merit. 


X. 

THE   MODERN  PERIOD 

(From  1800) 

A  NEW  influence  came  into  Hindi  literature  at  the 
beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century  through  contact 
with  the  culture  of  the  West.  The  eighteenth  century 
had  been  largely  a  time  of  literary  dearth,  but  a  renas- 
cence now  began.  The  East  India  Company,  which  had 
commenced  its  career  in  India  as  a  trading  company, 
had  now  come  into  possession  of  a  vast  Empire  and 
was  beginning  to  feel  its  responsibilities  towards  those 
whom  it  was  called  upon  to  govern.  This  responsibility 
was  being  continually  urged  by  many  in  the  British 
Parliament.  Amongst  other  responsibilities  that  were 
recognised  was  the  duty  of  fostering  and  helping  the 
culture  and  education  of  the  peoples  under  the  rule  of 
the  Company.  The  introduction  of  the  printing-press 
helped  to  diffuse  literary  culture.  The  spread  not  only 
of  vernacular  but  of  English  education  could  not  but  have 
a  vast  effect  upon  the  life  and  thought  of  India.  Just 
as  in  the  case  of  the  revival  of  learning  in  Europe  the 
study  of  the  Latin  and  Greek  classics  not  only  led  to  a 
stimulation  of  thought,  but  also  helped  to  revive  the 
literature  of  the  European  vernaculars,  so  also  in  India 
the  study  of  English  has  been  accompanied  by  a  great 
renascence  of  the  vernacular  literature  of  India.  The 
peace  and  security  which  the  British  rule  brought  to 
India,  after  the  long  period  of  internecine  strife  and 
disorder  through  which  the  country  had  been  passing, 
also  gave  the  genius  of  Hindi  literature  the  opportunity 
of  reasserting  itself,  and  of  recovering  from  the  decay 
into  which  it  had  fallen  in  the  eighteenth  century.     This 


88       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

period  is  marked  by  the  creation  of  a  new  Hindi  literary 
dialect  and  of  Hindi  prose. 

Lallu  Ji  Lai.— At  the  commencement  of  the  nineteenth 
century  the  head  of  the  Fort  William  College  at 
Calcutta  was  Dr.  John  Gilchrist.  With  the  help  of 
the  other  European  officers  of  the  College,  such  as 
Captain  Abraham  Lockett,  Professor  J.  W.  Taylor, 
and  Dr.  Hunter,  he  gave  a  great  impetus  to  the 
cultivation  of  vernacular  literature.  Text-books  suitable 
for  the  study  of  the  European  officials  were  collected, 
and  a  group  of  vernacular  scholars  gathered  together 
and  encouraged  to  produce  new  literature.  Most  of 
the  work  was  in  connection  with  the  Urdu  language, 
but  Lallu  Ji  Lai,  who  also  wrote  Urdu,  and  Sadal 
Misra,  did  for  Hindi  what  was  being  done  by  other 
scholars  for  Urdu.  The  works  which  they  produced,  if 
not  the  first  prose  works  in  those  languages,  were  the 
first  literary  standards,  and  established  prose  as  a 
recognised  form  of  literature.  Lallu  Ji  Lai  was  a 
Brahman  whose  family  had  come  originally  from  Gujarat, 
but  had  long  been  settled  in  North  India.  Under  the 
direction  of  Dr.  John  Gilchrist  he  and  Sadal  Misra 
were  the  creators  of  modern  "High  Hindi."  Many 
dialects  of  Hindi  were,  as  we  have  seen,  spoken  in 
North  India,  but  the  vehicle  of  polite  speech  amongst 
those  who  did  not  know  Persian,  was  Urdu.  Urdu, 
however,  had  a  vocabulary  borrowed  largely  from  the 
Persian  and  Arabic  languages,  which  were  specially 
connected  with  Muhammadanism.  A  literary  language 
for  Hindi-speaking  people  which  could  commend  itself 
more  to  Hindus  was  very  desirable,  and  the  result 
was  produced  by  taking  Urdu  and  expelling  from 
it  words  of  Persian  or  Arabic  origin,  and  substitut- 
ing for  them  words  of  Sanskrit  or  Hindi  origin.  The 
n2im.e  Khar  i  Boll  {''  "^ure  speech")  is  sometimes  used 
for  the  dialect  of  Delhi  and  Meerut,  which  was  the 
language  from  which  Urdu  sprang,  as  well  as  for  the 
modern  Hindi  literary  dialect.  It  seems  to  be  implied 
that  Lallu  Ji  Lai  was  only  restoring  the  Delhi  and 
Meerut  dialect  to  its  original  purity  and  using  it    for 


THE  MODERN  PERIOD  89 

literary  purposes.  This,  however,  was  hardly  the 
case,  for  though  Urdu  sprang  originally  from  this  dialect 
it  had  also  assimilated  many  words  of  Panjabi  and 
Rajasthani  as  well  as  those  of  Arabic  and  Persian 
origin.  The  Hindi  of  Lallu  Ji  Lai  was  really  a  new 
literary  dialect.  This  "High  Hindi,"  or  "Standard 
Hindi  "  as  it  is  also  called,  has  had  however  a  great 
success.  It  has  been  adopted  as  the  literary  speech  of 
millions  in  North  India.  Poetical  works  still  continue 
to  be  written  in  Braj  Bhdshd,  or  Avadhi,  or  other  old 
dialects,  as  High  Hindi  has  not  been  much  used  for 
poetry.  But  whereas  before  this  time  prose  works 
in  Hindi  were  very  rare,  from  now  onwards  an  extensive 
prose  literature  began  to  be  produced.  The  first  work 
in  this  new  dialect,  and  one  which  is  regarded  as  a 
standard,  was  Lallu  Ji  Lai's  Preni  Sdgar,  which  is  a 
version  of  the  tenth  chapter  of  the  Bhdgavata  Pur  ana. 
It  was  founded  on  a  previous  Braj  Bhasha  version  of 
Chaturbhuj  Mi^ra,  and  was  begun  in  1804  and  completed 
in  1810.  The  Rdjmti  (1809),  which  is  also  much 
admired  for  its  language,  was  an  adaptation  of  the 
Hitopade'sa  and  the  Panchatantra,  and  is  in  Braj  Bhasha. 
The  Singhdsa7i  Batiisx  and  the  Baiidl  Pachhl  are  col- 
lections of  stories  in  mixed  Urdu  and  Hindi.  Besides 
other  works  in  Hindi  and  Urdu,  Lallu  Ji  Lai  also  wrote  a 
commentary  on  the  Sat  Sal  of  Bihari  Lai  called  Ldl 
Chayidrikd,  and  gathered  a  collection  of  poems  in  Braj 
Bhasha  called  Sabhd  Bilds.  Sadal  Mi'sra  (fl.  1803)  was 
the  author  of  the  Ndsketopakhyd??,  which  gives  in  Hindi 
prose  the  well-known  story  of  Nachiketas. 

Scramporc— In  connection  with  the  revival  of  Hindi 
literature  mention  must  also  be  made  of  the  work  being 
done  about  this  time  by  William  Carey  and  his  colleagues 
Ward  and  Marshman  at  Serampore.  Amongst  the 
many  translations  of  the  Christian  Scriptures  made  by 
these  missionaries  were  some  in  the  dialects  of  North 
India.  The  Hindi  version  was  Carey's  own  work.  The 
first  portions  of  his  Hindi  New  Testament  were  pub- 
lished in  1809  and  the  Hindi  translation  of  the  whole 
Bible  was  completed  in  1818.     Besides   translations  of 


90       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

the  Scriptures,  Carey  and  his  colleagues  also  printed 
editions  of  many  vernacular  works,  amongst  them 
being  the  Rdmdyan.  Most  of  these  editions  perished 
in  a  fire  which  destroyed  the  printing-press  at  Seram- 
pore  in  1812.  In  1818  Carey  began  to  publish  a 
newspaper  in  Bengali,  which  was  the  first  newspaper 
printed  in  any  oriental  language,  and  was  the  fore- 
runner of  the  many  newspapers  now  issued  from  the 
vernacular  press.  All  this  work  of  Carey  and  his  co- 
workers helped  greatly  in  the  development  of  vernacular 
literature. 

Raja  Siv  Prasad.— The  new  literary  dialect  which 
Lallu  Ji  Lai  produced  has  not  been  without  its  critics. 
As  it  includes  many  Sanskrit  words  it  is  a  speech  not 
easy  to  be  understood  except  by  the  learned.  It  tends 
to  fall  into  the  same  extreme  as  Urdu.  Raja  Siv 
Prasad  (1823-1895)  is  especially  remembered  as  one  who 
tried  to  popularise  a  literary  speech  midway  between 
the  Persian-ridden  Urdu,  and  the  Sanskrit-ridden  High 
Hindi,  which  he  believed  to  be  nearer  the  colloquial 
speech  of  the  people.  The  controversy  is  by  no 
means  settled  yet.  Raj  Siv  Prasad  was  the  grand- 
son of  the  poetess  Bibi  Ratan  Kunwar.  In  his  youth 
he  was  Vakil  to  the  Maharaja  of  Bharatpur,  but  after- 
wards he  entered  the  English  service.  He  rose  to  the 
position  of  Nur  Munshi  and  became  an  Inspector  in  the 
Department  of  Public  Instruction.  He  was  eventually 
granted  the  hereditary  title  of  Raja.  Besides  trans- 
lations and  other  works,  all  of  which  show  the  modern 
influence,  he  was  the  author  of  a  great  many  text-books 
for  schools. 

The  Printing- Press.— The  outstanding  feature  of  the 
development  of  Hindi  literature  in  modern  times  has 
been  the  production  of  a  very  large  number  of  works 
in  prose.  This  has  been  very  much  facilitated  by  the 
use  of  the  printing-press.  It  was  at  the  College  press 
at  Fort  William  that  printing  was  first  used  for  Hindi 
works,  but  at  first  the  expense  hindered  its  rapid 
development,  and  the  ungraceful  characters  of  the 
type    were    not    regarded    with   favour.      The    work 


THE  MODERN  PERIOD  91 

of  Carey  and  others  at  Serampore  has  already  been 
mentioned.  In  1837  a  lithographic  press  was  set  up 
at  Delhi,  and  from  that  date  onwards  the  publication  of 
books  in  Hindi  has  been  increasing  continually.  The 
introduction  of  lithography  was  soon  followed  by  the 
publication  of  Hindi  newspapers  and  magazines,  of  which 
there  are  now  a  large  number.  All  kinds  of  books  have 
been  turned  out  from  the  press — translations  of  English 
books,  books  and  pamphlets  dealing  with  religious 
and  social  questions,  novels,  educational  text-books, 
and  books  on  many  other  subjects  ;  but  it  cannot  be 
said  with  regard  to  most  of  them  that  a  high  literary 
standard  has  yet  been  reached,  and  experience  alone  will 
show  how  many  of  them  are  worthy  to  rank  as  standard 
works  of  Hindi  literature.  Hindi  prose  literature  is 
still  feeling  its  way,  and  its  standards  are  not  yet  fixed. 
One  book  which  has  had  probably  a  greater  circulation 
than  any  other  Hindi  work  in  modern  times  (whether 
as  a  whole  or  in  portions)  is  the  Hindi  translation  of  the 
Bible,  and  owing  to  its  large  circulation  is  bound  to  have 
an  important  influence  on  the  life  of  the  people.  The 
printing-press  has  also  been  used  to  produce  many  of 
the  older  works  of  Hindi  literature,  which  are  now 
accessible  to  the  general  public  in  a  way  which  was 
before  impossible. 

Harischandra That    the    new    influence    from    the 

West  revived  rather  than  checked  the  cultivation  of 
Hindi  poetry  is  illustrated  in  the  case  of  Babu  Haris- 
chandra (1850-1885),  of  Benares,  who  is  often  called 
Bharatendu  (*'The  moon  of  India").  He  was  edu- 
cated at  Queen's  College,  Benares,  and  was  a  prolific 
and  successful  writer  of  poetry  in  many  styles,  having 
commenced  to  write  at  the  age  of  sixteen.  He  wrote 
altogether  about  a  hundred  and  seventy-five  different 
works.  Among  these  are  eighteen  plays,  and  Haris- 
chandra was  the  real  founder  of  the  modern  drama  in 
India.  In  his  plays  some  of  his  best  work  is  to  be 
found,  and  they  exhibit  his  great  desire  for  the  progress 
of  India  and  the  development  of  its  intellectual 
freedom. 


92       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

Hari^chandra  wrote  also  on  various  subjects  includ- 
ing history,  patriotism,  religious  devotion,  and  love. 
He  was  also  the  author  of  many  humorous  verses.  His 
historical  works  include  the  Kashmir  Kusuyn,  or 
history  of  Kashmir,  and  the  Charitavall,  a  series  of 
lives  of  great  men  both  Indian  and  European.  Next 
to  his  plays  his  love  poems  are  considered  to  be 
the  best  part  of  his  work.  Love  and  mirth  are  pro- 
minent characteristics  of  his  poetry,  which  is  full  of 
power.  He  must  be  reckoned  amongst  the  great 
writers  of  Hindi  literature.  He  used  chiefly  the  Braj 
Bhasha  dialect.  Hari^chandra  also  did  much  to  cultivate 
interest  in  Hindi  poetry.  To  accomplish  this  he  started 
a  magazine  called  Harischa7idrikd,  in  which  he  published 
a  number  of  old  texts  with  much  other  matter.  He 
also  produced  anthologies  of  Hindi  poetry  such  as  the 
S2i7idarl  Tilak,  which  contains  poems  in  the  savaiya 
metre  from  the  works  of  sixty-nine  poets,  and  the  Kavi 
Bacha7i  Sudhd,  which  is  a  collection  of  poems  dealing 
with  the  rainy  season. 

As  an  example  of  the  poetry  of  Hari^chandra  the 
following  translation  is  given  : — 

O  warriors,  having  put  on  your  arms,  arise  for  the  fight,  and  fly  the 

flag  of  victory  ; 
Draw  your  sword  fronfi  the  scabbard,  and  join  the  battle. 
Having  girded  up  your  loins,  put  your  arrow  to  your  bow  ; 
Put  on  your  saffron-coloured  garments  and  the  bracelet  of  battle 

(as  sign  of  a  vow  to  conquer  or  die) ; 
If  the  Aryans  be  united,  and  think  of  their  own  dignity, 
They  will  give  up   quarrels   amongst  themselves,  and  support  the 

honour  of  their  race. 
Then  the  strength  of  the  mean  Amirkhan  cannot  be  great. 
When  a  lion  is  roused,  can  a  dog  stand  in  battle  against  him  ? 
Even  an  ant  trampled    underfoot  bites,  although   it  is  only  insig- 
nificant. 
These  arc  visible  enemies,  woe  to  those  who  ignore  them. 
""~~oe  to  those  who,   being  Aryans,    have  a  love  to  those  who  are 

barbarians. 
Woe  to  those  who  have  any  dealings  with  them. 
Warriors,  arise,  and  having  put  on  all  your  weapons,   plunge  into 

the  battle. 
Write  with  a  pen  of  steel  the  strength  of  the  Aryans  on  the  heart  of 

both  (conquerors  and  conquered) . 


^Nv^ 


THE  MODERN  PERIOD  93 

The  Hindi  and  Bihari  Drama.— The  Hindi  drama  is 
of  very  recent  origin.  Some  earlier  writers  produced 
what  are  called  7idtaks,  or  plays.  Among  these  were 
Dev  (fl.  1700),  the  author  of  Dev  Maya  Prapayich; 
Newaj  (fi.  1700),  who  wrote  the  Sakuntala ;  Braj  Basi 
Das  (fi.  1770),  who  wrote  the  Probodh  Chatidroday , 
and  some  others.  But  their  works  were  either  without 
entrances  and  exits  of  the  characters,  or  lacking  in 
other  essentials  of  dramatic  poetry.  The  first  real 
play  in  Hindi  was  the  Nahush  Ndtak,  written  by  Go  pal 
Cha7id  (alias  Giri  Dhar  Das)  in  1857.  It  deals  with 
Indra's  expulsion  from  his  throne  by  Nahush  and  his 
subsequent  reinstatement.  Next  came  the  Sakimtald 
(1862)  of  Raja  Lakshman  Singh  (1826-1899),  which  is 
very  famous  and  much  admired.  Hari'schaiidra  then 
began  to  write  dramas,  his  first  being  Vidyd  Sundar. 
He  wrote  eighteen  altogether.  Other  writers  of  Hindi 
drama  were  Sy-inivds  Das,  Totd  Ram,  Gopdl  Rdjn, 
Kdsl  Ndth  Khattri,  Piirohit  Gopl  Ndth,  Laid  Slid 
Rdyn,  besides  many  others.  The  first  Hindi  play  was 
performed  in  1868. 

In  Bihar  the  dramatic  tradition  is  very  much  older. 
Vidydpali  Thdkur,  who  belongs  to  the  middle  of  the 
fifteenth  century,  is  reputed  to  be  the  author  of  two 
plays.  Ldl  Jhd  (fi.  1780)  wrote  a  play  called  Gaurl 
Parinay.  In  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  century 
Bhd7m  Ndth  Jhd  wrote  the  Prabhdvati  Haran  and  later 
Harsh  Ndth  Jhd  wrote  the  Ushd  Haran.  The  Bihari 
drama,  however,  differs  from  the  Hindi  in  one  very 
important  feature,  for  the  characters  speak  in  Sanskrit 
and  Prakrit,  and  only  the  songs  are  written  in  the 
Maithili  dialect. 

Anthologies.— The  revival  of  interest  in  Hindi  litera- 
ture and  its  appeal  through  the  printing-press  to  a  wider 
public  is  illustrated  by  the  large  number  of  anthologies  of 
Hindi  verse  which  have  appeared  in  this  period.  Besides 
those  of  Lallu  JI  Lai  and  Harischandra,  which  have 
already  been  mentioned,  the  following  may  be  noted  : — 

The  Rdg-Sagarodbhdv  Rdg  Kalpadriim  contains 
selections  from  the  works  of  more  than  two  hundred 


94       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

poets.  It  is  a  very  voluminous  work  and  was  compiled 
by  a  Brahman  named  Krishnmiand  Vyas  Dev,  and 
completed  in  1843. 

The  Ras  Chajidroday ,  which  is  a  collection  of  poems 
by  two  hundred  and  forty-two  poets,  was  compiled  in 
1863  by  Thakur  Prasad  Tripathl. 

The  Dig-Vijai  Bhushan  was  compiled  in  the  year 
1869  by  a  Kayasth,  of  Balirampur  in  the  district  of 
Gonda,  named  Gokul  Prasad.  It  contains  selections 
from  the  works  of  a  hundred  and  ninety-two  poets. 

The  Siv  Si7igh  Saroj  was  compiled  from  former 
anthologies  by  Siv  Siyigh  Sen  gar.  The  second  edition 
of  this  very  valuable  work  was  published  in  1883. 

Gokul  Nath.— A  famous  work  belonging  to  this  period 
was  the  translation  of  the  Mahabharata  into  Hindi  verse. 
This  was  begun  by  Gokul  Nath  (fl.  1820),  of  Benares, 
being  undertaken  at  the  instance  of  Raja  Udit  Narayan, 
of  Benares.  Gokul  Nath  was  the  author  of  other  works, 
including  the  Govind  Sukhad  Bihar  and  the  Chet  Cha^id- 
rikd,  in  the  latter  of  which  he  has  described  the  family 
history  of  Raja  Chet  Singh,  of  Benares,  who  was  his 
patron.  His  greatest  achievement,  however,  was  the 
translations  of  the  Mahabharata.  In  this  work  he  was 
assisted  by  his  son  Gopi  Nath  and  his  pupil  Mani  Dev. 

The  Patronage  o!  Courts.— The  modern  influence  on 
Hindi  literature  did  not  spread  all  at  once,  and  in  many 
places  the  old  state  of  affairs  still  continued  for  some 
time.  The  work  of  the  printing-press  did  not  penetrate 
into  all  regions  immediately,  and  poets  still  looked  to 
the  rulers  of  states  to  help  them  by  their  patronage. 
At  the  courts  of  Panna  and  Charkhari  in  Bundelkhand, 
of  Rewah  in  Baghelkhand,  of  Nagpur,  Benares, 
Ayodhya,  and  other  principalities,  poets  and  bards  were 
still  welcomed  and  encouraged,  and  several  rulers  were 
themselves  poets.  Maharaja  Man  Singh  of  Jodhpur 
(fl.  1810)  was  the  author  of  various  works  chiefly  in 
Rajasthani.  Chajidra  Sekhar  Bajpeyl  (1798-1875) ,  who 
was  at  the  courts  of  Darbhanga,  Jodhpur  and  Patiala, 
excelled  in  the  erotic  and  heroic  styles  and  was  the 
author  of  the  Hammir  Hath  and  other  works.  Maharaja 


THE  MODERN  PERIOD  95 

Hindupati,  of  Panna,  was  the  patron  of  Mohan  Bhatt,  as 
well  as  of  Rup  Sahi  and  Karaji  (fl.  circ.  1800),  the  latter 
being  a  writer  on  the  art  of  poetry.  Mohan  Bhatt 
attended  other  courts  also.  His  son  was  a  well-known 
poet  named  Padmakar  Bhatt  (see  below),  who  also  visited 
various  courts.  The  Rajas  of  Charkhari,  named Khuman 
Singh,  Vikram  Sahi,  and  Ratan  Singh,  were  all  great 
patrons  of  poets.  Vikram  Sahi  (1785-1828)  was  himself 
a  successful  poet.  Among  his  works  is  a  Sat  Sat,  in 
imitation  of  Bihari  Lai's  great  work.  The  poets  who 
attended  his  court  include  Baikal,  Man,  and  Bdl  Dev 
(all  fl.  1820).  Bihar  I  Lai,  Avadhcs,  Rav  Rajia,  Gopal, 
Ram  Din  Tripathi  (all  fl.  1840)  attended  the  court  of 
Raja  Ratan  Singh.  Surya  Malla  (fl.  1840),  who  was 
at  the  court  of  the  Raja  of  Bundi,  wrote  a  long  work 
called  the  Ba7is  Bhaskar,  which  in  the  form  of  illustra- 
tive verses  gives  an  account  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bundi. 
In  Baghelkhand,  at  the  court  of  Rewah,  poets  were  also 
encouraged  both  by  Maharaja  7^2  5zV?^^  (fl.  1764-1834) 
and  his  son  Visvanaih  Singh  (1789-1854).  Both  these 
kings  not  only  patronised  poets  but  were  themselves 
authors.  Vi^vanath  Singh  wrote  in  Sanskrit  and  Hindi. 
In  Hindi  he  composed  commentaries  on  the  Bij ak 
of  Kabir  and  on  the  Vi7iay  Patrika  of  Tulsi  Das,  as 
well  as  a  work  entitled  Ram  Cha^idra  ki  Sawarl.  The 
poetical  traditions  of  this  royal  family  were  also  main- 
tained by  Vi^vanath's  successor,  Raja  Raghu  Raj 
Singh  (1823-1879),  who  came  to  the  throne  in  1858. 
He  was  the  author  of  a  much  admired  translation  of  the 
Bhagavata  Purdna  and  of  a  history  of  Hanuman, 
entitled  Sundar  ^atak,  besides  many  other  works. 
Maharaja  Man  Si7igh  (fl.  1850) ,  of  Ayodhya,  was  another 
monarch  who  was  both  a  poet  and  a  patron  of  poets. 

The  Art  of  Poetry.— Many  of  the  poets  who  attended 
the  courts  of  kings  were  writers  on  the  art  of  poetry, 
and  this  particular  form  of  composition  continued  to 
receive  great  attention.  Gurdhi  Pdnde  (fl.  1803)  wrote 
an  excellent  work  on  the  same  lines  as  Ke^av  Das's 
Kavi  Priyd.  Beni  Prainn  Bdjpeyi  (fl.  1817),  a  Brahman 
of  Lucknow,  whose  poetry  is  full  of  excellent  verses. 


96       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

wrote  several  works  connected  with  the  art  of  poetry. 
One  of  the  most  famous  of  writers  of  this  period  was 
Padmakar  Bhatt  (1753-1833),  of  Banda.  He  attended 
the  courts  of  various  rulers  and  was  richly  rewarded  for 
his  poetry.  He  is  the  reputed  author  of  about  seven 
works,  mostly  concerning  the  art  of  poetry,  which  are 
very  much  praised.  One  of  his  outstanding  qualities 
is  his  skilful  use  of  alliteration.  His  best  work  is 
considered  to  be  the  Jagadvi?iod  (1810).  At  the  end  of 
his  days  he  is  said  to  have  devoted  his  life  to  the 
worship  of  the  Ganges,  and  wrote  a  book  entitled 
Ganga  Laharl.  His  grandson,  Gada  Dhar  Bhatt 
(fl.  1860),  was  also  a  poer  and  wrote  on  rhetoric. 
A  contemporary  and  rival  of  Padmakar  was  Gwdl, 
of  Muttra,  who  wrote  works  on  the  art  of  poetry. 
His  most  famous  work  is  the  Yamuna  Laharl.  About 
the  same  time  or  a  little  later  flourished  also  Ram 
Sahay  Das  (1820),  of  Benares,  and  Pajnes  (1843),  of 
Panna.  The  former,  who  was  a  poet  of  considerable 
merit,  took  Bihari  Lai  as  his  model.  Pratap  Sdhi 
(fl.  1828)  was  a  devotee  of  Rama  and  the  author  of 
several  works  connected  with  the  art  of  poetry.  In 
the  cleverness  of  his  language  he  is  said  to  resemble 
Mati  Ram.  Bihdrl  Ldl  Tripdthl  (fl.  1840)  belonged 
to  a  family  which  has  produced  many  poets,  being  a 
descendant  of  Mati  Ram  Tripathi.  Navhi  (fl.  1842) 
wrote  several  works  of  high  standard  on  poetics. 
Gahesh  Prasdd  Farukhdbddi  (fl.  1847-1877)  was  a 
Kayasth,  of  Farukhabad,  who  wrote  a  Nakhsikh  and 
other  works.  Giri  Dhar  Dds  (fl.  1843)  was  the  father 
of  Harischandra.  His  real  name  w^as  Gopdl  Chandra. 
He  wrote  about  forty  different  works.  Sarddr  (1845- 
1883),  of  Benares,  and  Ndrdyan  Rdy  flourished  in  the 
second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century.  The  former 
was  the  author  of  several  works  on  the  art  of  poetry, 
including  commentaries  on  the  works  of  Kesav  Dds 
and  on  the  Sat  Sal  of  Bihari  Lai,  and  a  commentary 
on  some  of  the  emblematic  couplets  of  Sur  Das.  The 
Sringdr  Sahgrah,  another  poem  of  Sardar,  is  a 
popular  work  on  rhetoric,  dealing  with  all  branches  of 


THE  MODERN  PERIOD  97 

the  art  of  poetry.  Narayan  Ray  was  a  pupil  of  Sardar. 
A  much  admired  work  in  the  Marwari  dialect  is  the 
RagJnaiath  Rupak  of  Ma7i'sa  Ram,  which  was  written 
about  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century.  It  is 
a  prosody  in  which  the  illustrative  examples  are  so 
arranged  that  they  give  a  continuous  history  of  the  life 
of  Rama. 

Bihari  Poets.— A  few  Bihari  poets  of  the  nineteenth 
century  may  be  mentioned,  all  of  whom  wrote  in  the 
Maithili  dialect.  Bhajui  Nath  Jha  (fl.  1850)  and  Harsh 
Nath  Jha  (born  1847)  both  attended  the  court  of  the 
Maharaja  of  Darbhanga.  Bhanu  Nath's  best  known 
work  is  a  play  entitled  Prabhavati  Haran.  Harsh 
Nath  wrote  many  songs  as  well  as  plays.  A  popular 
account  of  the  famine  of  1873-74,  entitled  Kavitta  Akall, 
was  written  by  Phaturi  Lai,  a  Kayasth  of  Tirhut. 
Chandra  Jha,  who  flourished  in  the  latter  half  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  was  the  author  of  a  Ramayan 
in  Maithili,  which  is  much  admired. 

Religious  Verse.— Though  a  great  deal  of  the 
literature  already  described  has  a  religious  connection 
the  output  of  religious  verse  due  directly  to  the  various 
sectarian  movements  seems  to  have  been  less  since  the 
beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century  than  in  previous 
times.  Contact  with  the  new  influences  which  have 
come  from  the  West  has  led  indeed  to  a  great  deal  of 
religious  activity  in  India,  but  a  large  part  of  the  new 
movements  has  been  in  the  direction  of  religious 
reform.  Prose  literature,  whether  in  the  form  of  pam- 
phlets or  newspapers,  has  come  to  be  very  much  used  for 
the  dissemination  of  religious  as  well  as  other  ideas. 
Still,  the  production  of  poetry  in  connection  with  the 
various  religious  movements  did  not  entirely  cease. 
In  1806  Jai  Chand,  of  Jaipur,  wTote  a  Sanskrit  and 
Hindi  work  which  deals  with  the  doctrines  of  the  Jains, 
entitled  Svdnii  Karttikeya^uipreksha.  A  later  Jain  of 
considerable  merit  w^as  Brhiddban  Jl  (circ.  1791-1858), 
of  Benares.  Bakhtdwar  (fl.  1817),  of  Hathras,  in  the 
district  of  Aligarh,  who  was  a  religious  mendicant, 
wrote  a  book  entitled  Siimsdr,  which  was  intended  to 

7 


98       A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

show  that  all  notions  of  God  and  man  are  fallacies  and 
that  nothing  exists.  There  were  several  works  also 
connected  with  the  Rama  cult.  Atu7i  (fi.  1803)  was 
the  author  of  the  Rdvi  Ravan  Yuddh  and  other  works 
dealing  with  the  stories  of  Rama.  Lalak  Das  (fi.  1813), 
of  the  Lucknow  district,  wrote  the  Satyopakhydn, 
which  relates  the  early  life  of  Rama  from  his  birth  to 
his  marriage.  The  Rdmdyan  in  the  Maithili  dialect, 
composed  by  Chand^^a  Jhd,  has  already  been  mentioned. 
Sahaj  Rdm  (born  1804),  who  lived  in  the  district  of 
Sitapur,  also  wrote  a  Rdmdyan  which  is  a  translation 
of  the  Sanskrit  Raghuvanisa  and  of  the  Haiiumdn 
Ndtaka.  In  the  latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century 
RagJm  Ndth  Dds,  a  Brahman  of  Ayodhya,  wrote 
hundreds  of  hymns  in  honour  of  Rama,  of  whom  he 
was  a  devotee,  while  in  the  same  period  Jdnki  Prasdd, 
of  the  district  of  Rae  Bareli,  wrote  several  poems 
dealing  with  the  story  of  Rama  which  are  considered 
to  be  very  excellent.  Commentaries  also  were  written 
on  the  works  of  Tulsi  Das,  such  as  the  Mdnas  ^ankd- 
vall  of  Bandaji  Pdthak,  of  Benares,  which  is  a 
commentary  on  the  Rdmdyan,  and  the  Rdm  Tattva 
Bodha7ii  of  Siv  Prakds  Singh,  which  is  a  commentary 
on  the  Vijiay  Patrikd.  These  appeared  in  the  latter 
half  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Of  writers  w^ho  w^ere 
devotees  of  Krishna  the  following  may  be  mentioned  : 
Rasik  Govind  (fl.  1801),  who  wrote  works,  which  are 
much  praised,  all  connected  with  the  Krishna  legends, 
and  Lalit  Kishorl  (fl.  1860-1873),  whose  works  are  also 
connected  with  Krishna  and  full  of  merit  as  works  of 
poetry. 

The  spread  of  the  Christian  faith  in  India  has  also 
been  accompanied  by  the  production  of  Christian  hymns. 
Many  of  these  are  translations  of  English  hymns 
written  in  English  metres,  which,  judged  according  to 
Indian  standards,  sound  barbarous  and  uncouth.  But 
a  large  number  have  also  been  written  in  Hindi  metres, 
and  many  of  these  have  a  popularity  far  beyond  the 
bounds  of  the  Christian  Church.  Curiously  enough,  one 
of  the   most    famous   writers   of   Christian   hymns    in 


THE    MODERN   PERIOD  99 

Hindi  metre  was  a  European  named  John  Christian 
(died  about  1883).  His  most  famous  work  is  the 
Mukti  Muktdvall,  a  life  of  Christ  in  verse. 

Thus,  while  the  nineteenth  century  was  a  period  of 
great  change  characterised  especially  by  the  develop- 
ment of  prose  literature,  and  the  application  of  it  to 
a  large  number  of  new  subjects,  literature  of  the  older 
type  still  continued  to  be  produced,  though  it  generally 
exhibited  little  or  no  novelty  in  its  themes.  The 
period  has  been  largely  a  time  of  transition,  and  in 
spite  of  its  many  past  glories  Hindi  literature  still 
awaits  its  more  complete  development.  No  attempt  is 
here  made  to  give  an  account  of  the  writers  in  prose 
and  poetry  of  the  last  thirty  or  forty  years.  Many 
of  these  writers  are  still  living,  and  time  alone  will 
show  how  much  of  their  work  will  have  a  lasting  fame 
and  prove  of  real  value. 


XI. 

SOME  GENERAL  CHARACTERISTICS 
OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

Having  now  traced  the  history  of  Hindi  literature 
from  its  earliest  times  to  the  present  day,  it  may  be 
helpful  to  mention  in  this  chapter  some  of  its  general 
characteristics  even  at  the  risk  of  some  repetition  of 
points  already  mentioned. 

1.  The  first  striking  feature  is  that,  during  the 
time  when  it  grew  and  flourished  through  its  own 
original  force,  Hindi  literature  was  dominated  by  a 
religious  interest.  Probably  much  more  than  half  of 
the  literature  directly  springs  from  the  bhakti  move- 
ment in  one  or  other  of  its  aspects.  A  great  deal  of 
the  remainder  is  concerned  with  the  art  of  poetry  ; 
and  even  in  these  works  the  illustrative  verses,  which 
form  the  greater  part  of  them  are  often  connected  with 
one  or  other  of  the  various  religious  movements.  The 
bardic  chronicles,  and  some  other  parts  of  the  literature, 
are  secular  in  character,  but  even  in  these  the  religious 
interest  is  not  quite  out  of  sight. 

2.  Until  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century 
practically  the  whole  of  the  literature  was  in  verse. 
There  are  indeed  a  few  exceptions.  The  works  ascribed 
to  Gorakhnath  (though  almost  certainly  not  by  him) 
include  one  in  prose,  and  if  this  is  correctly  dated  as 
belonging  to  the  fourteenth  century  it  is  the  earliest 
Hindi  prose  work  extant.  Then  we  have  the  Mandan 
of  Vitthalnath  and  the  Chaurasi  Varta  of  Gokul  Nath 
in  the  sixteenth  century,  and  Damodar  Das's  translation 
of  the  Mdrkandeya  Pur  ana  in  the  seventeenth  century. 
Besides   these,  and   the    commentaries   which    accom- 


SOME  GENERAL  CHARACTERTSTJCS      lOi 

panied  certain  works,  there  is  very  little  else  till  we 
come  to  the  time  of  Lallu  Ji  Lai.  Even  commentaries 
were  often  in  the  form  of  poetry.  The  system  of 
versification  was  very  complicated,  but  all  authors 
seem  to  have  found  it  more  natural  to  write  verse 
than  prose.  When  prose  was  first  employed,  at 
the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century,  writers 
at  first  found  it  more  awkward  and  difficult  to  manage 
than  poetry.  Even  text-books  on  such  subjects  as 
veterinary  surgery,  astronomy  or  lexicography  were 
written  in  verse. 

3.  From  about  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century 
the  literature  became  self-conscious,  and  from  the  time 
of  Ke^av  Das  onwards  an  enormous  number  of  works 
have  appeared  dealing  with  the  rules  of  prosody  and 
the  art  of  poetry  generally.  Apart  from  verse  of  a 
directly  religious  character  this  was  indeed  the  favourite 
subject  of  composition  amongst  Hindi  poets.  The 
tendency  to  lay  great  stress  on  the  form  rather  than 
the  substance,  and  to  develop  a  certain  amount  of 
artificiality  could  not,  under  such  circumstances,  be 
avoided.  It  is  considered  a  mark  of  a  writer's  ability 
if  his  words  are  capable  of  more  than  one  meaning, 
and  ingenuity  of  phrase,  whether  by  way  of  double 
entendre,  or  alliteration,  or  any  other  literary  device,  is 
greatly  admired.  Even  nowadays  there  seems  to  be  a 
tendency  to  appraise  poets  more  on  account  of  their 
technical  skill  than  on  account  of  the  message  which 
they  have  to  give.  But  even  so  the  writers  on  the  art 
of  poetry,  who  include  some  of  the  best  Hindi  writers, 
have  produced  a  great  deal  of  verse  which  is  very 
graceful  and  artistic,  and  it  must  be  said  that  the  strict 
rules  as  to  versification,  and  their  great  elaboration, 
have  helped  to  make  Hindi  poetry  almost  unrivalled 
for  melody  and  rhythm. 

4.  Conve7itionality  in  the  use  of  metaphors  is 
another  feature  of  Hindi  poetry.  Some  of  these 
metaphors  do  not  correspond  with  the  facts  of  nature, 
but  Hindi  poets  are  never  tired  of  repeating  them. 
The  separation  of  the  chakwd  bird  from  its  mate  at 

8 


102      A  HiSTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

night ;  the  eager  waiting  of  the  chatak  bird,  who  is 
supposed  to  drink  only  raindrops,  for  the  beginning  of 
the  rainy  season ;  the  chakor  bird,  that  is  never  happy 
except  when  gazing  on  the  moon;  the  swan  that  knows 
how  to  separate  milk  from  the  water  with  which  it  has 
been  mixed — these  and  many  other  stock  metaphors 
are  continually  recurring  in  Hindi  poets.  But  many 
beautiful  similes,  drawn  from  a  true  observation  of 
nature  at  first  hand,  are  also  found  not  only  in  the 
works  of  Tulsi  Das,  but  also  in  the  verses  of  other 
poets. 

5.  Another  thing  to  be  noticed  in  Hindi  poetry  is 
tke  limitatio7i  of  the  ra7ige  of  its  subject  matter.  Not 
only  is  the  religious  interest  dominant,  but  even  in 
connection  with  this  the  subjects  dealt  with  are  con- 
fined to  well-worn  grooves.  The  stories  of  Rama  and 
of  Krishna  form  a  very  large  part  of  the  subject  matter 
and  have  been  told  over  and  over  again  by  poet  after 
poet.  There  are  differences  in  treatment,  but  the  same 
details  are  constantly  appearing  again  and  again.  Those 
religious  poets  who  avoid  these  themes  are  very  largely 
occupied  with  such  subjects  as  have  already  been  noted 
in  a  previous  chapter,  namely,  the  value  of  the  gtiru, 
the  importance  of  bhakti,  the  evils  of  transmigration, 
the  deceit  of  maya,  the  transitoriness  of  the  world,  and 
suchlike  subjects.  One  misses  also  the  poetry  of  pure 
human  love.  There  is  indeed  a  good  deal  of  erotic 
poetry  of  a  very  unhealthy  type,  but  owing  to  the 
general  practice  of  child-marriage,  and  the  secluded 
position  occupied  by  women,  the  romantic  period  of 
youth,  which  is  the  time  of  courtship,  does  not  come 
into  the  lot  of  young  men  and  women  in  India,  and 
hence  when  love  is  described  in  Hindi  poetry  it  is  too 
often  in  connection  with  the  courtesan.  But  the  fidelity 
of  Padmavati,  the  wifely  devotion  of  Sita,  and  some 
other  stories  of  the  same  type  must  not,  on  the  other 
hand,  be  forgotten.  There  was  also  a  tendency  to  look 
to  previous  writers  for  themes  of  poetic  inspiration,  and 
if  a  great  poet  achieved  success  in  any  subject,  he  was 
sure  to  have  a  large  number   of  imitators.     Thus  there 


SOME  GENERAL  CHARACTERISTICS     103 

are  whole  realms  of  human  thought  in  connection  with 
which  Hindi  writers  have  contributed  nothing,  and  great 
as  their  work  has  been,  the  original  and  stimulating 
thoughts  which  Hindi  literature  contains  are  confined 
within  a  somewhat  narrow  area. 

6.  Yet  in  spite  of  its  limitations  Hindi  literature 
has  many  excellencies,  and  is  worthy  of  much  greater 
study  than  it  has  yet  received.  It  has  truly  been 
described  as  a  "garden  of  delights."  It  possesses  a 
system  and  variety  of  versification  which  has  seldom, 
if  ever,  been  excelled,  and  beauties  of  thought  and 
phrase,  and  expressions  of  deep  feeling  and  noble 
aspiration,  abound.  It  was  moreover  genuinely  popular, 
and  being  written  in  the  dialects  of  the  people,  and 
often  as  a  tacit  revolt  against  the  literary  exclusiveness 
of  the  Sanskrit  scholars,  it  appealed  to  the  heart  of  the 
people,  and  reached  a  very  wide  audience.  Many  of  its 
thoughts  and  expressions  have  become  closely  bound  up 
with  the  life  of  the  people,  and  a  close  acquaintance 
with  the  vernacular  literature  is  most  important  for  all 
who  would  fully  understand  the  peoples  of  India. 


XII. 

PRESENT    POSITION   AND  PROSPECTS 

With  such  a  splendid  record  of  past  achievements 
what  is  the  present  position  of  Hindi  literature  ?  What 
are  its  prospects  of  development  ?  A  brief  answer  to 
these  questions  is  all  that  can  be  attempted  in  this 
present  chapter. 

In  the  first  place  it  is  to  be  noted  that  Hindi 
literature  has  to  face  many  present  difficulties, 
some  of  which  it  shares  with  other  Indian  vernaculars, 
and  some  of  which  are  peculiar  to  itself.  This  is  not 
the  place  to  discuss  the  question  whether  English  or 
the  vernacular  should  be  the  medium  of  instruction  in 
higher  education.  But  it  is  certainly  true  that  most 
educated  Indian  people  would  be  very  sorry  that  their 
sons  should  surrender  the  opportunity  which  a  knowledge 
of  English  gives  not  only  of  becoming  acquainted  with 
the  vast  stores  of  Western  learning,  but  of  carrying  on 
intercourse  with  educated  people  from  other  parts  of 
India  who  possess  a  different  vernacular  from  their 
own.  It  is,  however,  almost  unavoidable  that  such 
a  state  of  affairs  should  put  Hindi  somewhat  at 
a  disadvantage,  for  if  a  writer  wishes  to  appeal  to  a 
widespread  educated  audience  it  is  natural  for  him  to 
use  English  rather  than  the  vernacular  to  express  his 
ideas,  and  hence  there  is  sometimes  a  tendency  to 
despise  the  vernacular  as  a  medium  of  literature,  and  to 
regard  vernacular  productions  as  more  intended  for  the 
unlearned  than  for  the  educated.  This  is  a  condition 
of  things  in  every  way  to  be  deplored,  and  it  is  to  be 
hoped  that,   without    lessening   the   opportunities    for 


PRESENT  POSITION  AND  PROSPECTS    105 

securing  an  acquaintance  with  English,  the  vernacular 
may  be  given  a  much  more  important  place  in  the 
future. 

Hindi  is  also  under  a  disadvantage  because  its 
standards  of  prose  have  not  yet  been  fixed.  We  have 
seen  that  not  only  is  the  prose  literature  a  plant  of 
very  recent  growth,  but  that  the  dialect  of  High  Hindi 
which  it  uses  is  also  a  modern  production.  There  are 
scarcely  any  prose  standards  of  the  past  to  look  to, 
and  the  present  state  of  the  language  is  transitional. 
Some  authors  attempt  to  write  in  a  language  from 
which  are  expelled,  as  far  as  possible,  all  words  other 
than  those  of  Hindi  or  Sanskrit  origin.  But  if  this 
standard  be  adopted  the  language  is  for  the  common 
folk  very  difficult  to  understand.  Other  writers  go  to 
the  opposite  extreme  and  admit  a  great  many  words 
not  only  of  Arabic  and  Persian,  but  also  of  English 
origin,  even  when  there  are  simple  and  wxll-understood 
Hindi  words  which  could  just  as  well  express  their 
meaning.  It  seems  indeed  inevitable  that  for  the 
expression  of  modern  ideas  a  good  deal  of  borrowing 
must  take  place,  but  the  limits  to  which  this  should 
go  can  only  be  settled  in  course  of  time  by  the  practice 
of  good  prose  writers.  At  present  there  is  a  great 
deal  of  variation,  both  in  translations  and  original 
works,  with  regard  to  the  language  used,  and  the 
adoption  of  some  generally  recognised  standard  is  very 
much  to  be  desired. 

Owing  to  Hindi  prose  literature  being  written  in  a 
modern  artificial  dialect,  which  has  not  proved  itself 
very  popular  for  the  purposes  of  poetry,  it  has  come 
about  not  only  that  the  language  of  poetry  is  different 
from  that  of  prose,  but  that  there  are  several  different 
dialects  still  used  for  poetry.  The  existence  of  a  widely 
divergent  standard  between  the  language  of  prose  and 
that  of  poetry  would  be  unfortunate  in  many  ways,  and 
it  cannot  be  said  what  the  ultimate  issue  of  this  matter 
will  be,  but  there  does  seem  a  tendency  amongst  some 
modern  poets  to  use  a  language  which  is  approximating 
more  to  that  of  prose. 


106     A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 

These  disadvantages  to  the  present  development  of 
Hindi  literature  are,  however,  being  counteracted  by- 
many  favourable  circumstances.  The  spread  of  educa- 
tion, with  the  prospect  that  the  day  is  not  far  distant 
when  it  will  be  made  compulsory,  at  least  for  boys,  is 
helping  to  increase  rapidly  the  number  of  those  who  can 
read.  Moreover,  the  modern  tendency  to  extend  the 
franchise,  and  to  give  increased  political  responsibility 
to  large  numbers  of  the  people  of  India  will  also  make 
it  necessary  to  acquaint  them  with  various  aspects  of 
modern  political,  social,  religious,  and  other  questions. 
It  is  impossible  with  increasing  education  and  enlighten- 
ment that  a  language  which  can  be  understood  by  over 
a  hundred  millions  of  people  should  not  eventually 
develop  a  great  modern  literature,  though  it  may  not 
be  easy  to  forecast  the  exact  lines  of  its  development. 

The  existence  of  societies  for  the  extension  and 
improvement  of  Hindi  literature  is  also  a  sign  of  great 
hope.  The  Ndgari  Pracharini  Sabhd,  whose  headquar- 
ters are  at  Benares,  is  doing  most  useful  work.  It 
conducts  a  systematic  search  for  old  manuscripts,  and 
publishes  many  good  editions  of  the  older  works 
of  Hindi  literature.  It  also  issues  many  useful 
books  in  which  a  high  standard  is  aimed  at.  It  en- 
courages Hindi  writers  to  produce  original  books  and 
also  to  translate  important  books  from  European 
languages.  Amongst  other  works  it  has  under- 
taken the  publication  of  a  standard  Hindi  diction- 
ary in  several  volumes.  Many  others  also  are 
publishing  the  works  of  various  Hindi  authors,  whose 
works  up  till  now  have  existed  only  in  manuscript, 
and  have  often  been  hardly  known  outside  the 
particular  sect  to  which  the  authors  belonged.  Trans- 
lations of  many  English  and  other  works  are  being 
produced  in  great  numbers,  making  it  possible  even 
for  those  who  are  unacquainted  with  English  to 
gain  some  knowledge  of  the  culture  of  the  West. 
Moreover,  books  on  subjects  connected  with  politics, 
science,  philosophy,  morals,  history,  and  religion  are 
being  constantly  issued  from  the  press.     A   great  deal 


PRESENT  POSITION  AND  PROSPECTS    107 

of  what  is  produced  may  not  have  great  value  as 
literature,  but  it  is  all  helping  to  cultivate  and  enlarge 
the  resources  of  the  language  to  meet  the  needs  of 
to-day.  A  Hindi  society  which  has  its  headquarters 
at  Allahabad  is  the  Sahitya  Savimelayi,  which  conducts 
examinations  in  Hindi  of  a  very  high  standard  and 
grants  diplomas,  and  is  trying  to  establish  purely 
Hindi  schools  in  all  parts  of  North  and  Mid  India. 

Amongst  other  societies  that  are  doing  much  to 
extend  Hindi  literature  the  No7'th  India  Tract  Society 
and  other  Christian  societies  hold  an  important  place. 
Through  the  agency  of  these  societies  a  great  deal  of 
Hindi  literature  has  been  produced  not  only  of  a  directly 
religious  nature,  but  also  stories,  biographies,  educational 
books,  and  books  on  social  and  other  subjects.  Indian 
people  themselves  are  often  largely  unaware  how  much 
of  the  new  movements  for  political  freedom,  social 
emancipation,  and  religious  reform  are  really  inspired  by 
Christian  ideals.  India  has  seen  the  vision  of  a  future 
glory  for  herself  and  her  children  greater  even  than  her 
past  achievements,  excellent  as  these  have  been.  New 
ideals  of  righteousness  and  of  duty,  of  brotherhood  and 
of  service  have  come  before  her,  and  inspiration  for 
these  has  been  very  largely  due  to  the  life  and  teaching 
of  Christ,  who  in  this  as  in  so  many  other  ways  is  the 
fulfilment  of  all  that  is  noble  and  excellent  in  Indian 
life.  The  ideas  of  the  old  mythology,  which  formed  so 
large  a  part  of  the  themes  of  writers  in  the  past,  are  on 
the  wane,  and  the  past  ideals  with  regard  to  many  other 
matters  are  undergoing  a  charge.  India  is  seeking  out 
after  a  larger,  a  fuller,  a  more  complete  life  than  she  has 
lived  in  the  past.  In  this  development  the  vernacular 
literature  is  bound  to  have  a  most  important  part  to 
play.  The  responsibility  resting  upon  all  writers, 
where  such  great  issues  are  at  stake,  is  very  great, 
but  the  situation  is  one  which  should  call  forth  the  very 
best  and  noblest  work  from  all  who  are  concerned  in 
the  production  of  literature. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

History  o!  the   Literature,   etc. 

The  Modern  Vernacnla^'  Literature  of  Hindnsta?i.  Sir 
George  A.  Grierson.  1889.  Published  by  the  Asiatic  Society  of 
Bengal  (Calcutta) . 

Misra  Bandhu  Vinod.  (3  vols.)  An  account  in  Hindi  of  the 
literature,  with  examples  of  the  work  of  the  chief  authors,  by  the 
Misra  brothers.  Published  by  the  Hindi  Granth  Prasarak 
Mandali  (Khandwa  and  Allahabad), 

Hindi  Navaratna.  An  account  in  Hindi  by  the  same  authors  of 
nine  great  Hindi  writers,  viz.^  Tulsi  Das,  Sur  Das,  Dev,  Bihar! 
Lai,  Bhushan,  Kesav  Das,  Mati  Ram,  Chand  Bardai,  and 
Harischandra.     Publishers  as  above. 

Kavita  Kaunmdl.  By  Ram  Naresh  Tripathi.  Vol.  I.  deals  with 
the  literature  dow^n  to  the  time  of,  but  not  including,  Harischandra, 
and  contains  an  account  of  89  poets  and  gives  copious  extracts  from 
their  work.  Vol.  II.  is  not  yet  published.  (Sahitya  Sammelan 
Office,  Allahabad). 

Santbanl  Sangrah.  (2  vols.)  Contains  extracts  from  the  works 
of  thirty-five  Hindi  religious  poets,  with  notes.  (Belvedere  Steam 
Printing  Press,  Allahabad.) 

Encyclopcedia  Britannica.    Edition  XI.  Vol.  XIII.  pp.  483-491. 

Imperial  Gazetteer  of  India.     Vol.  II. 

Li7ig2iistic  Survey  of  hidia.      Sir  George  A.  Grierson.     Con- 
tains much  useful  information  as  to  the  language  and  dialects. 

The  Encyclopcedia  of  Religion  a7id  Ethics.  Contains 
articles  on  several  of  the  different  sects  whose  literature  is  described 
in  this  book. 

Translations. 

Only  a  small  portion  of  the  vast  quantity  of  Hindi  literature  has 
been  translated  into  English.  The  following  are  some  of  the  translations 
(the  list  is  not  exhaustive)  which  have  been  made,  and  which  in  most 
cases  contain  also  information  as  to  the  authors  and  their  work. 

Tra7islatio7i  of  the  Ramayan  of  Tulsi  Das.  By  F.  S. 
Growse. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  109 

MathurCL.  By  F.  S.  Growse.  Contains  translations  of  some  of  the 
poems  of  worshippers  of  Krishna. 

The  Sikh  Religion.  By  M.  A.  Macauliffe.  (6  vols.)  Contains 
a  translation  of  the  Granth  (Clarendon  Press). 

A  History  of  the  Boondelas.  By  W.R.  Pogson.  (Calcutta,  1828) . 
A  translation  of  Lai  Kavi's  Chhatra  Prakds. 

The  Bijak  of  Kablr.  Translation  into  English  by  the  Rev, 
Ahmad  Sliah. 

The  Padumdvati  oi  Malik  Muhammad  Jaisl.  Edited,  with  a  com- 
mentary, translation,  and  critical  notes,  by  Sir  G.  A.  Grierson  and 
Mahamahopadhyaya  Sudhakar  Dvivedi.  (Asiatic  Society  of 
Bengal,  Calcutta.) 

Texts. 

It  is  impossible  to  give  a  list  of  all  the  Hindi  texts  which  have  been 
published,  but  the  following  list  of  publishers  of  Hindi  texts  may  be  of 
some  use.  I  am  indebted  for  this  list  to  Pandit  Syam  Bihari  Misra,  of 
Allahabad. 

1.  The  Venkateshwar  Press,  Bombay. 

(Has  published  a  good  edition  of  the  Stir  Sdgar  of  Sur  Das.) 

2.  The  Newal  Kishore  Press,  Lucknow. 

3.  The  Khadga  Vilas  Press,  Bankipore,  Bihar. 

(Has  published  all  the  available  works  of  Harischandra.) 

4.  The  Bharat  Jivan  Press,  Benares  City. 

(Has  issued  works  of  some  well-known  Hindi  poets.) 

5.  The  Bang  Bosi  Press,  Hindi  Bang  Bosi  Office,  Calcutta. 

(Has  printed  an  annotated  edition  of  Bihari  Lai's  Sat  Sat.) 

6.  The  Nirnaya  Sagar  Press,  Bombay. 

7.  The  Indian  Press,  Allahabad. 

(Has  published  a  good  edition  of  the  Rdmdyan  of  Tulsi  Das.) 

8.  L.  Ram  Narain  Lai,  Publisher  and  Bookseller,  Katra,  Allahabad. 

9.  The  Hindi  Sahitya  Sammelan   Office,  Johnston  Ganj,  Allahabad. 

10.  The  Kashi  Nagari  Pracharini  Sabha,  Benares  City. 

(Has  published  editions  of  Chand  Bardai's  Rdso,  Tulsi  Das's 
Ramdyan,  Bhushan's  works,  and  a  great  many  other  famous 
Hindi  works.) 

11.  The  Bharat  Mitra  Press,  Calcutta. 

12.  The  Belvedere  Steam  Printing  Press,  Allahabad. 


INDEX 


A  BDUL  Rahim   Khankhana, 
-^     36  f.,  52 

Abul  Faiz,  36 

Adi  Granth,  19  ff.,  63  f. 

Adi  Upades,  66 

Agra  Das,  58,  73 

Akaram  Faiz,  12 

Akbar,  10,  34  ff.,  45,  73  f. 

Akharavat,  31 

Alam,  47 

Alafikar  Ratnakar,  47 

Alha  Khand,  15 

Amar  Das,  63 

Amar  Singh,  13,  81  f. 

Amir  Khusro,  18 

Amrit  Dhar,  22 

Ananya  Das,  12  f. 

Angad,  63 

Ahg  Darpan,  48 

Anthologies,  93 

Arjun,  19,  63  f. 

Ashta  Chhap,  30,  72 

Aurangzeb,  39f.,43f.,46f.,  81 

Avadhes,  94 

Avadhi,  4,  25,  54,  89 

Avadh  Sagar,  60 

Ayodhya,  4,  52,  55,  69,  94  f.,  98 

Azam  Shah,  43,  45 

BAHADUR  Shah,  46 
Bairi  Sal,  48 
Baiswarl,  4,  54 
Baital,  85,  95 
Baital  Pachisi,  89 
Bakhshi  Hansraj,  78 
Bakhtawar,  97 
Bal  All,  60 
Balbhadra,  39 
Bal  Dev,  95 
Bal  Mukund  Lila,  78 
Bal  Krishna  Tripathi,  39 


Banarsi  Das,  84 

Bandan  Pathak,  98 

Bani  (of  Dadu),  65 

Bani  (of  Lai  Das),  66 

Bani  (of  Ram  Charan),  68 

Bans  Bhaskar,  95 

Bansidhar,  47 

Banwari  Lai,  82 

Bards,  9,  12  ff.,  81  ff.,  94 

Benares,  23  f.,  30,  42  f.,  44,  47, 

49,  52,  60  f.,  62,  82,  91,  94, 

96,  98,  105 
Beni,  49 

Beni  Madhav  Das,  59 
Beni  Pravin  Bajpeyi,  95 
Bhagavad  Gita,  67 
Bhagavata    Purana,    35,   39,    67, 

74,  78,  89,  95  ' 
Bhagwan  Hit,  75 
Bhagwant  Ray,  49,  60 
Bhaktamala,  52,  57  f.,  73,  75 
Bhaktavatsal,  59 
Bhakti,  19  ff.,  27,  30,  53,  67,  70 

79,  99,  100,  102 
Bhanu  Nath  Jha,  93,  97 
Bharatendu,  91 
Bhasha  Bharan,  48 
Bhasha  Bhushan,  44  f.,  47 
Bhaun,  49 
Bhawanand,  22 
Bhawani  Chhand,  84 
Bhikhari  Das,  49 
Bhikha  Sahib,  67 
Bhishma,  78 
Bholan  Jha,  86 
Bhu  Dhar  Das,  85 
Bhupati,  18,  47 
Bhushan  Tripathi,  41 
Bible,  the,  89  f. 
Bihari,  2ff.,  28,83,  86,  93,  97 
Bihari  Lai,  95 


INDEX 


111 


Bihari  Lai  Chaube,  10,  42,  ff., 
46  f.,  49f.,_57,  78,  89,  96 

Bihari  Lai  Tripathi,  96 

Biharini  Das,  78 

Bijak,  24  f.,  62,  95 

Birbal,  35  f.,  38,  74 

Bir  Bhan,  66 

Bisal  Dev,  13 

Bodha  Firozabadi,  49 

Braj  Basi    Das,  78,  93 

Braj  Bhasha,  4,  29  f.,  33,  39,  42, 
45,  49,  54,  64,  72,  75,  83,  85,  89 

Braj  Bilas,  78 

Brindaban,  52,  72,  78 

Brindaban  Ji,  97 

Buddh  Rav,  82 

Bulla  Sahib,  67 

Bulle  Shah,  67 

Bundelkhand,  42,  46,  49,  79,  83, 
85,  94 

pAREY,  William,  89 
^     Chaitanya,  28,  11  f. 
Chandan  Ray,  48 
Chand  Bardai,  9,  13  ff.,  73 
Chandra  Jha,  98 
Chandra  Sekhar  Bajpeyi,  94 
Charan  Chandrika,  86 
Charan  Das,  67 
Charitkvali,  92 
Chaturbhuj  Das,  72 
Chaupai,  6,  68 
Chaurasi  Pad,  76 
Chaurasi  Varta,  75,  100 
Chet  Chandrika,  94 
Chhand  Bichar,  40 
Chhand  Chhappani,  48 
Chhand  Sar  Pifigal,  42 
Chhappai,  6,  58 
Chhatra,  85 
Chhatra  Prakas,  83 
Chhatra  Sal,  41,  46,  69,  82  f. 
Chhattlsgarhi,  4 
Chhit  Swami,  72 
Chintamani  Tripathi,  40,  59 
Christian, 'John,  99 
Christian  Literature,  98,  107 

HADU,  64  ff. 

^     Dadupanthis,  10,  64  ff.,  85 


Dalel  Prakas,  49 

Dalpati  Ray,  47 

Damodar  Das,  85,  100 

Dara  Shukoh,  39,  42 

Darbhanga,  28,  83,  86,  94,  97 

Dariya  Sahib,  67 

Das,  49 

Das  Ratna,  59 

Daya  Bai,  68 

Daya  Bodh,  68 

Daya  Nidhi,  86 

Delhi,  4,  8,  13,  31,  67,  88,  91 

Devanagari,  5 

Dev   Datt   (Dev   Kavi),   10,   40, 

45.  93 
Dev  Datt,  48 
Devi  Das,  69,  85 
Devki  Nandan  Tiv»'ari,  48 
Dev  Maya  Prapahch,  45,  93 
Dhana,  22 
Dharm  Das,  62 
Dharni  Das,  66 
Dhruv  Charitr,  33 
Dhruv  Das,  77 
Dialects,  4 

Dig-Vijai  Bhushan,  94 
Doha,  6,  43  f.,  57 
Drama,  11,  93  f. 
Drishtakut,  74 
Dalah  Trivedi,  48 
Dulan  Das,  69 
Dulha  Ram,  68 

CAST  India  Company,  87 

ITATEH  Bhushan,  48 
^      Fateh  Shah  Prakas,  48 
Fort  William  College,  88,  90 

pADA  Dhar  Bhatt,  78,  96 

^^     Gambhir  Ray,  82 

Ganesh,  61 

Ganesh  Prasad  Farukhabadi,  96 

GangS,  Lahari,  96 

Gafiga  Pati,  85 

Gafiga    Prasad     (Gang     Kavi), 

36f.,74 
Garijan,  47. 
Garib  Das,  68 


112    A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 


Gauri  Parinay,  93 

Ghagh,  85." 

Ghan  Syam  Sulcla,  82 

Ghasi  Ram,  84 

Ghat  Ramayan,  60 

Gilchrist,  Dr.  John,  88 

Giri  Dhar,  86 

Giri  Dhar  Das,  93 

Gita  Govinda,  20,  28,  73 

Gokul  Nath,  49,  75,  94,  100 

Gokul  Prasad,  94 

Gopal,  95 

Gopal  Chand,  93 

Gopal  Ram,  93 

Gopi  Nath,  94 

Gorakhnath,  18,  100 

Gosain  Charitr,  59 

Govind  Das,  72 

Govind  Singh,  63  f. 

Govind  Sukhad  Bihar,  94 

Granth    of    the    Tenth    Guru, 

63  f. 
Granth   Sahib,   10,   19  f.,  26  f. 

63  f.       ^ 
Gulal  Sahib,  67 
Guman  Misra,  49 
Gurdin  Pande,  95 
Guru  Datt  Singh,  47 
Guru  Granth  Sahib,  68 
Gwal,  96 
Gyan  Prakas,  69 
Gyan  Samudra,  66 

LJAMMIR  Hath,  94 
**     Hammir  Kavya,  17,  82 
Hammir  Riasa,  17 
Hanuman  Chhappisi,  60 
Hanuman  Nataka,  59,  98 
Hari  Charan  Das,  50 
Hari  Das,  77  f. 
Harikesh,  82 
Hari  Prasad,  44 
Harischandra,  11,  91  f.,  93,  96 
Harivamsa,  76,  86 
Harsh  Nath  Jha,  93,  97 
High  Hindi,  2  ff.,  88  f. 
Hindi  2  ff.,  34,  88  f. 
Hit  Haribans,  76 
Hitopadesa,  89 
Hit  Tarangini,  33 


TNDO-ARYAN  Languages,  1,  7 

*      Indravati,  86 

Ishqnama,  49 

Ishwari  Prasad  Tripathi,  60 

TAGADVINOD,  96 

J     Jagat  Bilas,  81 

Jagat  Singh,  47,  50,  81  f. 

Jagjiwan  Das,  68  f. 

Jagnayak  (Jagnik),  9,  15 

Jahangir,  10,  36,  39,  84  f. 

Jai  Chand,  97 

Jaidev,  20 

Jai  Dev  Bilas,  81 

Jains, ,84,  85,  97 

Jain  Satak,  85 

Jai  Singh,  95 

Jai  Singh  Kalpadrum,  82 

Jai  Singh  Sawai,  82,  85 

Jaipur,  35  f.,  42,  46,  82,  85,  97 

Jalali  Das,  69 

Jalhan,  15 

Jan  Gopal,  49 

Janki  Prasad,, 98 

Janki  Rasik  Saran,  60 

Japji,  27,  63 

Japji,  64 

Jasvvant  Singh,  44  f.,  47 

Jata  Sankar  31 

Jatibilas,  45 

Jayadeva,  20,  28 

Jodhpur,  44,  82,  94 

Jodhraj,  82 

KABlR,  9f.,  22  ff.,  31,  62  f., 
66  ff.,  70,  95 
Kabirpanthis,  23,  62  f.,  68 
Kalidas  Hajara,  47 
Kalidas  Trivedi,  47,  48 
Kamal,  26 

Kanarpi  Ghat  Larai,  83 
Karan,  36,  82,  95* 
Karnes,  36 
Kashmir  Kusum,  92 
Ka^i  Nath,  39 
Ka^i  Nath  Khattri,  93 
Kavi  Bachan  Sudha,  92 
Kavi-kul  Kalpa-taru,  40 
Kavi  Mala,  42 
Kavindra  Kalpa  Lata,  42 


INDEX 


113 


Kavi  Priya,  37,  50,  95 

Kavitta,  6,  40,  57  f.,  59,  74 

Kavitta  Akali,  97 

Kavitta  Ratnakar,  40 

Kavittavali,  57 

Kavya,  6 

Kavya  Kalpadrum,  40 

Kavya  Prakas,  40 

Kavya  Saroj,  47 

Kavya  Vivek,  40 

Kdyathi  (Kaithi),  5 

Kedar,  12 

Kesav  Das,  10,  33,  37  ff.,  40,  44, 

47,  50,  74,  95,  96,  101 
Kesav  Das,  67 
Khankhana,  36  f.,  52 
Khari  Boll,  4,  88 
Khas  Granth,  24 
Khuman  RasS.,  12 
Kishor,  48 
Kishor  Sangrah,  48 
Kripa  Ram,  33,  37,  85 
Krishna,  9,  27  ff.,  40,  43,  54,  58, 

72  ff.,  98,  102 
Krishna  Das  Pay  Ahari,  72 
Krishna  Kallol,  78 
Krishr^nand  Vyas  Dev,  94 
Krishnayan,  79 
Kulpati  Misra,  46 
Kumar  Mani  Bhatt,  49 
Kumar  Pal."  12 
Kumbhan  Das,  72 
Kundaliya,  6,  63,  86 

T   AKSHMAN  Singh,  93 
*-     Lalak  Das,  98 
La  la  Sita  Ram,  93 
Lai  Chandrika,  89 
Lai  Das,  66 
Lalit  Kishori,  98 
Lalit  Lalam,  41,  48 
Lalit  Prakas,  78 
Lalitya  Lata,  48 
Lai Jha,  83 
Lai  Kavi,  83 

Lallu  Ji  Lai,  4,  11,  40,  85,  88  f., 
93,  101 


M 


ADHONAL,  85 
Madhu  Sudan  Das,  60 


Mahabharata,  49,  85 
Mahajani,  5 
Mahapralay,  69 
Mahoba  Khand,  15 
Maithili,  5,  28;  83,  86,  93,  97 
Malik    Muhammad    Jayasi,    10, 

31  ff.,  86 
Maluk  Das,  58  f. 
Man,  78,  81,  95 
Manas  Sankavali,  98 
Manbodh  Jha,  86 
Manchit  Dwij,  79 
Mandan,  30,  46,  100 
Man  Das,  59 
Mani    Dev,  94 
Mani  Rjam  Misra,  48 
Maniyar  Singh,  60 
Manohar  Das,  36 
Mansa  Ram,  97 
Man  Singh,  36,  52,  94  f. 
Markandeya  Purana,  85,  100 
Marwar,"  50,  81  f.' 
Marwari,  3,  97 
Masaud,  12 

Mati  Ram  Tripathi,  41  f.,  48,  96 
Meerut,  4,  88 
Mewar,  3,  12,  29,  81 
Mira  Bai,  10,  29 
Mohan  Bhatt,  95 
Moti  Ram,  85 
Mubarak  All,  84 
Muhammad  Shah,  47,  68 
Mukti  Mukt;avali,  99 
Mulla  Daud,  18 
Mun,  97 
Muttra,  4,  42,  72  f.,  80 


N 


ABHA  Das,  52,  58,  73 
Nagari  Das,  77,  86 
Nagari  Pracharini  Sabha,  106 
Nahush  Natak,  93 
Nakhsikh,  39,  42  f.,  47  f.,  59,  96 
Nala  and  Damayanti,  74 
Nalla  Singh,  18 
Namdev,  10,20,  63 
Nanak,  26,  63  f.,  66 
Nand  Das,  72  f. 
Narayan  Ray,  96 
Narhari  Sahay,  36 
Narottam  Das,  33 


114     A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 


Narsingh  Mehta,  28 

Nasketopakhyan,  89 

Nath  Kavi    84 

Navin,  96 

Nayak-Nayika  Bhed,  39,  42  f., 

Nazir,  84  [46,  49 

Nehprakas,  60 

Newaj,  46,  93 

Nidhan,  86 

Nilkanth  Tripathi,  40 

Nischal  Das,  66 

North  India  Tract  Society,  107 

Nur  Muhammad,  86 

pADMAKAR  Bhatt,  95,  96 

^    Padmavati,  14,  102 

Padumavati,  31,  86 

Pajnes,  96 

Paltu  Sahib,  63 

Pafichadhyayi,  73 

Panchatantra,  89 

Panna,  41,  46,  48,  78,  83,  94,  96 

Parmanand  Das,  72 

Parsi  Praka§,  42 

Parsva  Puran,  85 

Phaturi  Lai,  97 

Pihgal,  4 

Pi  pa,  21 

Piyush  Nidhi,  48 

Poetesses,  10,  29,  38,  47,  68,  78  f. 

Prabhavati  Haran,  93,  97 

Prabodh  Chandroday,  93 

Prakrit,  1,  10,  12  f.,  93 

Pran  Nath,  69 

Pratap  Sahi,  96 

Pratham  Granth,  69 

Pravin  Ray  Paturi,  38 

Premchandrika,  45 

Premlata,  76 

Prem  Prakas,  67 

Prem  Ratna,  79 

Prem  Ratnakar,  85 

Prem  Sagar,  89 

Premsattvanirup,  72 

Printing  Press,  90 

Prithi  Raj,  8,  13 

Prithi  Raj  Rass,  13 

Priya  Das,  58 

Prose,  30,  85,  89  f.,  97,  100,  105 

Prosody,  6,  37  ff.,  95  ».,  101 


Puhakar,  84 

Purohit  Gopi  Nath,  93 

Pushya  (Punda),  12 

QADIR  Bakhsh,  76 
Qutub  Ali,  12 

DADHA,  28,  43,  74  ff. 

^^     Radha-sudha-nidhi,  76 

Radha-Vallabhis,  76  f. 

Raghu  Nath,  49 

Raghu  Nath  Das,  98 

Raghu  Nath  Ray,  82 

Raghunath  Rupak,  97 

Raghu  Raj  Singh,  95 

Raghuvarhsa,  98 

Rag  Mala,  36 

Rag-Sagarodbhav  Rag-Kalpa- 

Rahim  Sat  Sai,  36  [drum,  93 

Rai  Das,  22,  29 

Rai  Pithora,  8,  13 

Rajasthani,  2  ff.,  85,  89,  94 

Raj  Dev  Bilas,  81 

Rajniti,  89 

Raj  Pattana,  81 

Rajpufena,  8,  10,  31,  64,  68,  81, 

84,  86 
Raj  Ratnakar,  81 
Raj  Rupakakhyat,  82 
Rama,  9,  20,  23,   27  ff.,  51   ff., 

97  f.,  102 
Ram  Alankrimafijari,  38 
Ramananda,  9,  19  ff.,  27,  51,  58 
Ramanandis,  21,  57  f. 
Ramasvamedh,  60 
Ramayan,  40,  51  ff.,  60,  89,  98 
Ram  Bilks,  60 
Ram  Bilas  Ramayan,  60 
Ram  Chandra  ki  Sawari,  95 
Ram  Chandrika,  38 
Ram  Charan,  68,  86 
Ram-Charit-Manas,  52  ff. 
Ram  Charitr,  59 
Ram  Das,  36,  63,  73 
Ram  Din  Tripathi,  95 
Ram  Gitavali,  57 
Ram  Ji,  46 

Ram  Ravan  Yuddh,  97 
Ram  Sahay  Das,  96 
Ram  Sanehis,  68 


INDEX 


115 


Ram  Tattva  Bodhani,  98 

Ran  Chhor,  29,  81 

Ranthambhor,  9,  17 

Ras,  43,  70 

Ras  Bilas,  45 

Ras  Chandrika,  39 

Ras  Chandroday,  93 

Rasik  Govind,  98 

Rasik  Priya,  38,  47,  50 

Rasik  Rasal,  49 

Ras  ke  Pad,  77 

Ras  Khan,  76 

Ras  Lin,  48 

Ras  Rahasya,  46 

Ras  Raj,  42 

Ras  Ratan,  84 

Ratan  Kavi,  48 

Ratan  Kuriwar,  79,  90 

Ratnakhana,  59 

Rav  Rana,  94 

Rav  Ratan  Raysa,  82 

Rewah,  22,  82,  95 

Rup  Sahi,  95 

CABAL  Singh,  85 

•^     Sabdas,  24,  66  f. 

Sabha  Bilas,  89 

Sadal  Misra,  88  f. 

Sada§iv,  81 

Sadharan  Siddh§.nt,  77 

Sadhs,  66 

Sadna,  20 

Sahaj  Ram,,  98 

Sahachari  Saran,  78 

Sahajo  Bai,  68 

Sahityalahari,  74 

Sahitya  Sammelan,  107 

Sakhis,  24  f.,  66,  68 

^akuntala  Natak,  46,  93 

Salihotr,  86 

Samarsar,  49 

Sambhu  Nath,  60 

Sambhu  Nath  Mi§ra,  49 

^ymbhu  Nath  Singh,  42 

Saneh  Sagar,  78 

Sarigit  Sar,  36 

Sanskrit,  1,  5,  19  ff.,  28,  30,  35   . 

43f.,48,  52  ,  59,  67,73,  76  f. 

90,  93,  95,  97,  105 
Sarang  Dhar,  9,  17,  82 


Sarasvati,  42 

Sardar,  96 

Sarrafi,  5 

Satnamis,  68  f. 

SatSai,  42  ff.,  47,  49  f.,   57,  78, 

Sat  Sai  Mati  Ram,  42     [89,  95  f. 

Satya  Praka§,  67 

Satyopakhyan,  98 

Saundarya  Lahari,  60 

Savaiya,  6,  50,  66 

Sayyad  Gulam  Nabi,  48 

Sen,  21 

Senapat!,  10,  40 

Serampore,  89 

Shah  Jahan,  10,  39  f.,  42,  82 

Shekh  Rangrezin,  47 

Sikandar  Lodi,  23 

Sikhs    26,  63  f. 

Singhasan  Battisi,  40,  89 

Sita,  51  ff.,  102 

Sital,  78 

Slta  Ram  Dhyanmanjarl,  60 

Siv  Arsela,  49  f. 

Siv  Narayan,  68 

Siv  Prakas  Singh,  98 

Siv  Prasad,  79,  90 

Siv  Raj,  41_ 

Siv  Raj  Bhushan,  41 

Siv  Singh  Saroj,  94 

Siv  Singh  Serigar,  94 

Somnath,  48 

Soratha,  6,  43 

Sri  Dhar,  84 

Sri  Hit  Brindaban  Das  Ji 

Sri  Nagari  Das,  86     [Chacha,  77 

Sringar  Sahgrah,  96 

Si-inivas  Das,  93 

Sripati,  47,  49 

Sudam!  Charitr,  33 

Sudan 

Sudhanidhi,  47 

Sujan  Charitr,  83 

Sukh  Dev  Mi§ra,  46 
Sukh  Nidhan,  62 

Sundar,  39 
Sundar  Bilas,  66 
Sundar  Das,  66 
Sundar!  Kumvari  Bai,  79 
Sundari  Tilak,  92 
Sundarkand,  60 


116    A  HISTORY  OF  HINDI  LITERATURE 


Sundar  Satak,  95 

Sundar  Sringar,  39 

Sunisar,  97 

Surati  Misra,  47 

Suravali,  74 

Surbhidanlila,  79 

Sur  Das,  10,   13,  36  f.,  52,  57, 

72  H.  80,  96 
Sur  Sagar,  74 
Surya  Praka§,  82 
Surya  Malla,  95 

^    Tan  Sen,  35  f. 
Teg  Bahadur,  63 
Thakur,  50 

Thakur  Prasad  Tripathi,  94 
Thakur  Satak,  50 
Thin  Ram,  49 
Todar  Mai,  35 
Tota  Ram,  93 
Tosh  Nidhi,  47 
Tripathi  Brothers,  10,  40  ff. 
Tulsi,"  42 
Tulsi    Das,    10,   37,   44,   51   ff., 

72  ff.,  95,  98,  102 
Tulsi  Sahib,  60 


U 


DAY  Nath  Trivedi,  48 
Umapati,  28 


Urdu,  2ff.35,  88  f. 
Usha  Haran,  93 

\/AISHNAVAS,  9,  19,  28,   55, 
^    57  f..  75 

Vallabhacharis,  72  ff.  75,  78 
Vallabhacharya,  30,  72  f.,  75 
Valmiki,  52,  59  f. 
Vedang  Ray,  42 
Vedanta,  22,   23,   45,   55,   65  f., 

84,  85 
Vichitr  Natak,  64 
Vidyapati  Thakur,  10,  28,  93 
Vidya  Sundar,  93 
Vigyan  Gita,  37 
Vijai  Muktavali,  85 
Vijai  Singh,  82 
Vikram  Sahi,  85,  95 
Vinay  PatrikS,  57,  95,  98 
Visala-deva,  13 
Vishnu  Purana,  49 
Visvanath  Singh,  95 
Vitthalnath,  30,  72,  75,  100 
Vitthal  Vipul,  78 


W^ESTERN    Hindi,    2   ff. 

YAMUNA  Lahari,  96 
Yari  Sahib,  67 


58, 


r-l 


tr; 


GENtBM 


UBRftRV-«.C.BtRKtLEY 


