V.<-"„'v.  \ 


J^> 


8«:!: 


Jr^.'^<K':*> 


% 


H.  G.  Gaunev, 

Bookseller. 


THE 


HISTORICAL  WORKS 


OF 


GIRALDUS  CAMBRENSIS 


CONTAINING 

THE  TOPOGRAPHY  OF  IRELAND,  AND   THE   HISTORY  OF 

THE   CONQUEST  OF  IRELAND,  TRANSLATED   BY 

THOMAS   FORESTER,  M.A. 

THE    ITINERARY    THROUGH    WALES,    AND    THE 

DESCRIPTION  OF  WALES,  TRANSLATED  BY 

SIR   RICHARD  COLT  HOARE.  Bart. 


REVISED   AND   EDITED,    WITH   ADDITIONAL   NOTES,    BY 

THOMAS    WRIGHT,    M.A.,    F.S.A.,    &c. 


LONDON 
GEORGE    BELL    &    SONS 


A.^  1905 


933,3 


l^Heprinted  from  Stereotype  plates.^ 


BOSTON  COLLEGE  LffiRABY 
CHESTNUT  HELL,  MASS. 

^^^  -2  1973 


PEEFACE. 


GiEALDijs  Cambbeksis,  SO  Called  from  the  country  Oi 
which  he  was  a  native,  was  born  about  the  year  1146,  and 
belonged  to  one  of  the  most  distinguished  families  in  South 
Wales.  A  Norman,  or  Anglo-Norman,  chieftain  had  esta- 
blished himself  in  that  district,  and  left  to  his  family  a 
name  taken  from  the  little  island  of  Barri,  on  the  coast  of 
Q-lamorganshire.  William  de  Barri,  the  head  of  this  family 
in  the  reign  of  king  Stephen,  was  lord  of  the  princely  castle 
of  Manorbeer,  in  Pembrokeshire,  and  became  allied  by 
marriage  with  one  of  the  most  remarkable  families  in 
Wales.  Ehys  ap  Tudor,  prince  of  South  Wales  in  the 
reign  of  William  Bufus,  had  a  daughter  named  Nesta,  cele- 
brated for  her  beauty,  and  for  other  accomplishments,  who 
became  the  concubino  of  king  Henry  I.,  and  was  subse- 
quently married  to  Gerald  de  Windsor,  castellan  of  Pem- 
broke. From  this  marriage  sprung  the  illustrious  family 
of  Eitzgerald.  William  de  Barri,  just  mentioned,  married 
Angharad,  the  daughter  of  Gerald  de  Windsor  and  the 
princess  Nesta,  whereby  the  Barris  became  related  both  to 
the  powerful  Norman  family  of  the  Fitzgeralds,  and  to 
the  princes  of  South  Wales  and  the  numerous  families  of 
Welsh  chieftains  who  claimed  kindred  with  them.  Giraldus, 
the  author  of  the  historical  treatises,  of  which  we  now  pub- 
lish a  translation,  was  the  youngest  of  the  sons  of  William 
de  Barri  and  Angharad ;  and  was  no  doubt  named  after 
hia  maternal  grandfather,  the  castellan  of  Pembroke.     In 

▲  S 


W  PEEFACE. 

one  of  the  books  translated  in  the  preseL.t  volume,  Giraldui 
relates  how  his  cousins  effected  that  extraordinary  series  of 
exploits,  the  conquest  of  Ireland  ;  and  it  was  the  unity  of 
family  of  the  conquerors,  and  their  great  connections  in 
Wales,  which  made  them  objects  of  jealousy,  for  their  suc- 
cess, to  king  Henry.  The  same  feeling  of  jealousy  was  ex- 
tended to  Giraldus  himself ;  and,  according  to  his  own  state- 
ment, stood  in  the  way  of  his  advancement  to  the  bishopric 
of  St.  David's ;  and  this  circumstance  will  explain  many 
sentiments  expressed  by  him  in  various  parts  of  these 
writings. 

Giraldus  was  born  in  the  castle  of  Manorbeer,  and,  as  he 
says,  displayed  in  his  childhood  a  love  for  literature,  and  for 
the  ecclesiastical  profession,  which  led  his  father  to  call  him 
"his  little  bishop."  His  education  was  entrusted  to  the 
care  of  his  mother's  brother,  David  Fitzgerald,  bishop  of 
St.  David's,  with  whom  he  remained  until  he  had  reached 
his  twettieth  year;  and  then  he  repaired  to  Paris,  and 
gained  great  distinction  in  that  University.  He  returned 
to  England  in  1172,  and  obtained  ecclesiastical  preferment ; 
but  his  activity  in  correcting  the  abuses  in  the  church 
gained  him  many  enemies.  In  1176,  the  see  of  St.  David's 
became  vacant,  and  the  chapter  chose  Giraldus  as  their 
bishop ;  but  the  king  refused  his  consent  to  his  election, 
and  Giraldus  and  the  canons  were  compelled  to  yield. 
Peter  de  Leia,  prior  of  Wenlock,  was  chosen  in  his  place. 
He  returned  to  Paris,  and  continued  his  career  in  that  cele- 
brated University,  where  he  rose  to  great  honours ;  but  he 
came  home  again  in  1180,  repaired  to  his  archdeaconry  of 
Brecknock,  and  was  appointed  administrator  of  St.  David*8 
during  a  temporary  absence  of  the  bishop.  During  the  few 
years  preceding,  the  first  conquest  of  Ireland  had  taken 
place.  King  Henry,  visiting  the  borders  of  Wales  in 
1184,  became  acquainted  with  Giraldus,  and,  admiring  hi« 
*«arning,  took  him  to  court.     He  employed  him  on  several 


PBEFACE.  r 

occasions  in  diplomatic  negociations  with  the  "Welsh,  made 
bim  one  of  his  chaplains,  appointed  him  preceptor  to  hia 
son,  prince  John,  and,  in  1185,  sent  him  with  the  young 
prince  to  Ireland,  in  the  quality  of  secretary. 

G-iraldus  was  evidently  a  zealous,  if  a  rather  credulous, 
observer  and  collector  of  facts.     It  was  during  this  visit  to 
Ireland  that  he  occupied  himself  diligently  in  collecting 
materials  for  a  description  of  that  country,  and  remained 
there  for  that  purpose  some  time  after  the  departure  of 
prince  John.     The  result  was  his  "  Topography  of  Ireland," 
which  he  began  to  compose  soon  after  his  return  to  "Wales, 
a  little  after  the  Easter  of  1186,  and  completed  in  1187.    Its 
completion  gave  occasion  for  a  remarkable  display  of  the 
writer's  vanity  and  love  of  ostentation.     He  recited   his 
book,  which  was  divided  into  three  parts,  which  he  called 
by  the  then  fashionable  term  of  distinctions,  before  a  public 
audience  of  the  university  of  Oxford  on  three  successive 
days ;  and,  to  give  more  ejffect  to  this  proceeding,  he  gave 
on  each  day  a  sumptuous  feast.     The  poor  people  of  the 
town  were  entertained  on  the  first  day;  the  doctors  and 
students  of  greatest  distinction  on  the  second ;  and  on  the 
third  the   other  scholars  and  the  burghers  and  soldiers. 
Giraldus  was  evidently  very  proud  of  the  sensation  he  had 
made  on  these  occasions ;  for  in  one  of  his  books  (that  De 
Gestis  Suis,  lib.  ii.  c.  16),  he  declares  that  it  was  worthy  of 
the  classic  ages  of  the  poets  of  antiquity,  and  that  nothing 
like  it  had  ever  been  seen  in  England.     Its  effect  appears 
to  have  been  to  increase  his  celebrity. 

In  the  latter  part  of  this  year  news  arrived  of  the  capture 
of  Jerusalem  by  Saladin,  and  all  "Western  Europe  was  thrown 
into  a  state  of  great  excitement.  Preparations  were  made 
on  every  side  for  a  new  crusade ;  and  Henry  II.,  though  too 
prudent  a  monarch  to  be  led  away  by  the  enthusiasm  to 
vhich  it  gave  rise,  could  not  avoid  seeming  to  encourage 
ft.     He  accordingly  proclaimed  the  crusade ;  and  Baldwin, 


n  PEEFACE. 

fL'Vflbisliop  of  Canterbury,  was  sent  to  preach  it  in  "Wales. 
Giraldus  was  appointed  to  accompany  the  archbishop,  in 
which  tnere  was  no  doubt  a  stroke  of  policy  ;  for  our  author 
was  then,  known  throughout  Wales  as  the  champion  of  the 
rights  and  independence  of  the  "Welsh  church  against  the 
pretensions  of  the  metropolitan  see  of  Canterbury ;  and  it 
was  thought  that,  by  joining  him  in  the  mission,  the  fears 
and  suspicions  of  all  who  might  be  inclined  to  look  with 
distrust  upon  the  visit  of  the  English  metropolitan  would 
be  silenced.  It  is  probable,  indeed,  that  the  presence  of 
Giraldus,  the  Welshman  who  had  morally  been  raised  to 
the  see  of  St.  David's,  did  give  favour  in  the  eyes  of  the 
Welsh  to  archbishop  Baldwin's  preaching ;  although  the 
vanity  of  the  archdeacon  led  him  to  believe  that  his  own 
marveUoTis  eloquence  was  the  chief  element  in  their  suc- 
cess. This  expedition  is  the  subject  of  one  of  the  most  in- 
teresting of  his  books,  the  "  Itinerary  of  Wales,"  which  was 
compiled  with  the  avowed  intention  of  immortalizing  the 
acts  of  the  archbishop,  and  especially  of  his  companion,  the 
archdeacon. 

In  the  year  1189,  Griraldus  accompanied  Henry  II.  on  his 
last  expedition  into  Trance,  and  he  appears  to  have  been 
present  at  that  king's  death.  The  new  king,  Eichard  I., 
shewed  the  confidence  he  placed  in  our  writer,  by  sending 
him  immediately  to  "Wales,  to  persuade  his  countrymen  to 
abstain  from  revolt,  and  he  appears  to  have  fulfilled  his  mis- 
sion with  success.  We  find  a  further  proof  of  the  king's 
consideration,  in  the  circumstance,  that,  when  Bichard  de- 
parted for  the  Holy  Land,  he  appointed  Griraldus,  who  had 
obtained  a  dispensation  from  the  crusade,  to  be  coadjutor 
with  the  bishop  of  Ely,  in  the  administration  of  the  king- 
dom. Our  author  was  now  so  confident  in  his  expectation 
of  obtaining,  through  the  king's  favour,  the  high  ecclesiasti- 
cal preferment  to  which  he  aspired,  that  he  refused  the  lesser 
bishoprics  of  Bangor,  in  1190,  and  Landafi*,  in  1191,  but  his 


PEEFACE.  VU 

seem  to  have  met  witli  continued  disappointment, 
until,  at  length,  he  quitted  the  court,  and,  being  preventea 
from  going  to  Prance  by  the  breaking  out  of  war  between 
the  two  countries,  he  retired  to  Lincoln,  where  he  gave  him- 
self to  his  old  literary  occupations.  And  he  remained  in 
this  retirement  several  years.  In  1198,  Peter  de  Leiadied, 
and  the  bishopric  of  St.  David's  thus  again  became  vacant. 
Giraldus  was  elected  by  the  chapter,  and  opposed  by  the 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  Hubert  Walter,  who  refused  to 
accept  the  nomination  on  the  same  grounds  which  had  been 
previously  alleged  by  king  Henry  II.,  that  it  would  be  dan- 
gerous to  the  English  supremacy  to  appoint  a  Welshman  to 
the  metropolitan  see  of  Wales.  Meanwhile  king  Eichard 
died,  and  king  John,  whose  favour  Giraldus  enjoyed,  gave 
him  reason  to  expect  that  his  election  would  now  be  con- 
firmed ;  but  the  king  yielded  to  the  arguments  of  the  arch- 
bishop, and,  after  a  rather  obstinate  struggle  on  the  part 
of  the  canons  of  St.  David's  to  sustain  their  choice,  the 
election  of  Giraldus  was  set  aside,  and  the  bishopric  of  St. 
David's  was  finally  conferred  on  Geoffrey  de  Henelawe,  in 
1203.  In  the  course  of  this  dispute,  in  which  an  appeal 
was  made  to  the  pope,  Giraldus  gave  so  much  off'ence  to 
king  John,  that  that  monarch  proclaimed  him  an  enemy  to 
the  crown,  accusing  him  of  a  design  to  raise  a  rebellion 
among  the  Welsh,  and  seized  upon  his  lands.  He,  however, 
made  his  peace  with  the  king,  after  the  election  of  Geoffrey 
de  Henelawe;  but,  having  resigned  his  archdeaconry  in 
favour  of  one  of  his  nephews,  and  retaining  only  his  two 
church  preferments  of  canon  of  Hereford,  and  rector  of 
Chesterton,  in  Oxfordshire,  he  retired  finally  from  public 
life.  The  see  of  St.  David's  was  again  vacant  in  1215,  and 
was  offered  to  Giraldus,  but  he  was  now  unwilling  to  accept 
it.  We  know  nothing  of  his  history  during  the  rest  of  his 
life,  but  he  appears  to  have  died  in  the  year  1223. 

Such  was  Giraldua  de  Barri,  or  Cambrensis,  the  writer  ol 


fUl  PREFACE. 

the  four  works  translated  in  the  present  volume,  and  of 
mary  otners,  most  of  which  have  been  preserved.  In  these 
writings  he  appears  to  us  in  the  character  of  what  we  may 
truly  describe  as  an  elegant  scholar,  deeply  learned  in  the 
learning  of  his  day,  and  widely  read  in  classical  and  medieval 
literature.  He  was  evidently  a  diligent  collector  of  facts, 
but  he  was  at  the  same  time  a  man  of  extraordinary  credu- 
lity, as  all  who  read  the  following  treatises  will  soon  dis- 
cover. Yet  the  information  he  gives  us  is  almost  always 
curious,  and  we  feel  in  every  instance  that  it  is  the  bona 
fide  result  either  of  his  own  observations,  or  of  his  own  in- 
quiries. In  common  with  "Walter  Mapes,  and  others  of  his 
contemporaries,  he  was  fond  of  anecdote,  and  the  continual 
introduction  of  popular  stories  into  his  writings  not  only 
render  them  extremely  interesting,  but  give  us  very  curious 
pictures  of  life  and  manners  in  the  twelfth  century.  Our 
readers  will  soon  detect  another  characteristic  of  Q-iraldua 
Cambrensis,  which  is  not  less  apparent  than  his  credulity — 
I  need  hardly  say  I  mean  his  vanity.  He  seldom  omits  an 
opportunity  of  speaking  of  his  own  writings,  and  almost 
always  in  a  laudatory  vein — of  talking  of  his  own  eloquence, 
of  which  he  was  evidently  proud — or  of  setting  forth  his  own 
deeds  with  the  utmost  degree  of  self-satisfaction.  He  also 
affects  humour  and  wit ;  but  this  consists  too  often  in  puns 
and  jokes  upon  words  which  tend  rather  to  confuse  than  to 
amuse  the  reader.  "With  all  these  different  qualities,  Griral- 
dus  Cambrensis  is  one  of  the  most  agreeable  prose  writers 
of  the  middle  ages. 

The  four  books  contained  in  the  present  volume  are  those 
which  may  more  strictly  be  called  the  historical  treatises  of 
G-iraldus  Cambrensis.  The  Topography  of  Ireland,  as 
already  stated,  was  completed  in  the  year  1187,  and  was 
dedicated  to  king  Henry  II.  The  History  of  the  Conquest 
of  Ireland  appears  to  have  been  commenced  immediately 
«fter  the  completion  of  the  Topography,  and  was  dedicated 


PEEFACE.  .  IX 

to  Bicliard,  count  of  Poictiers,  then  the  heir  to  the  cvo.vn 
of  England,  which  he  inherited  some  two  years  afterwards 
as  Eichard  I.  In  the  preface  to  the  description  of  Wales, 
he  informs  us  that  this  history  was  the  labour  of  two  years, 
so  that  he  must  have  completed  it  just  before  that  prince 
ascended  the  throne.  At  a  later  period  he  published  a  re- 
vised edition  of  this  book,  and  dedicated  it  tc  king  John. 
The  Itinerary  through  Wales,  which  was  intended  to  com- 
memorate the  mission  of  archbishop  Baldwin  to  preach  the 
third  crusade  to  the  "Welshmen,  and  the  part  which  Griraldua 
himself  acted  in  it,  was  dedicated  to  archbishop  Langton, 
and  therefore  cannot  have  been  completed  before  the  year 
1207,  when  that  prelate  was  elected  to  the  see  of  Canter- 
bury. The  Description  of  Wales,  or  the  Topographia 
Cambrice,  appears  to  have  preceded,  in  the  date  of  its 
composition,  the  Itinerary,  as  the  first  edition  was  dedicated 
to  Hugh,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  who  occupied  that  see  from 
1186  to  1203  ;  but  a  second  and  probably  enlarged  edition 
was  subsequently  published,  and  dedicated,  like  the  Itine- 
rary, to  archbishop  Langton.  In  the  account  of  his  own 
writings,  given  in  a  letter  addressed  to  the  chapter  of  Here- 
ford, Giraldus  tells  us,  that  in  order  to  make  his  country 
better  known,  as  well  as  to  occupy  his  leisure,  and  exercise 
his  talents,  he  had  drawn  "  a  map  of  the  whole  of  Wales, 
with  its  lofty  mountains  and  dense  forests,  its  principal 
lakes,  rivers,  and  castles,  many  cathedral  churches  and  mo- 
nasteries, especially  those  of  the  Cistercian  order,"  and  that 
this  was  executed  in  a  small  space,  on  a  single  leaf,  but  per- 
fectly distinct  and  clear.  The  loss  of  so  singularly  curious 
a  record  is  greatly  to  be  regretted.  It  appears  that  G-iral- 
dus  had  already  imbibed  the  taste  for  writing  topographies 
when  he  composed  that  of  Ireland,  for  in  various  passages 
in  that  and  his  other  works  he  announces  his  intention  of 
writing  similar  works  for  Wales,  England,  and  Scotland. 
One  only  of  these  plans  he  fulfilled,  when  he  published  thAt 


S  PEEFACE. 

of  Waxes,  the  extent  and  plan  of  whicli  differ  very  consi- 
derably from  those  of  the  Topography  of  Ireland.  We  have 
every  reason  I'or  believing  that  the  Topographies  of  England 
and  Scotland,  which  appear  to  have  been  delayed  until  tlie 
close  of  his  life,  were  never  written.  It  is  certain  that  no 
Buch  works  are  known  to  have  existed. 

It  only  remains  to  add,  that  the  translations  of  the  Topo- 
graphy of  Ireland  and  the  Yaticinal  History  of  the  Conquest 
are  the  work  of  Thomas  Forester,  Esq.,  well  known  by 
many  excellent  translations  of  our  medieval  chroniclers  and 
historians,  published  in  Bohn's  Antiquarian  Library.  They 
are  the  first  complete  translations  of  these  books  that  have 
ever  appeared.  The  translations  published  by  Sir  Eichard 
Colt  Hoare,  in  1806,  have  been  adopted  for  the  Itinerary 
and  Description  of  Wales.  All  have  been  carefully  revised 
on  the  original  texts  by  the  editor.  A  large  portion  of  the 
notes  on  the  Topography  of  Ireland  are  by  the  editor,  while 
the  rest,  with  nearly  all  those  on  the  history,  are  by  the 
translator.  Sir  Eichard  Colt  Hoare  took  the  Itinerary  as 
a  frame  on  which  to  build  a  large  work  on  the  local  history 
and  antiquities  of  Wales,  and  it  was  neither  possible  nop 
desirable  to  give  the  whole  of  his  notes  in  the  present 
volume.  In  abridging  them  the  editor  has  retained  chiefly 
that  part  which  related  to  the  history  of  the  different  places 
visited  by  G-iraldus  down  to  the  time  of  his  visit,  and  to 
the  description  of  scenery  or  antiquarian  remains.  The 
words  of  Sir  E.  C.  Hoare  are  retained,  with  the  exception 
of  a  few  necessary  alterations  and  corrections ;  and  wherever 
the  writer  speaks  in  the  first  person,  the  reader  will  under- 
stand that  Sir  Eichard  alone  is  responsible  for  the  state- 
TDeut  or  opinion. 

T.  W. 


THE   TOPOGRAPHY   OF  lEELANl); 

ITS  MIEACLES  AND  WONDERS. 

BY 

8ILVESTEE   aiEALDUS    CAMBEENSIS. 


THE  TOPOGRAPHY  OP  lEELAND. 


THE  AUTHOE'S  FIEST  PREFACE. 

When  I  reflect  that  our  life  is  short  and  fleeting,  I  am  filled 
with  admiration  of  the  noble  aims  of  those  men  of  genius 
who,  before  their  path  for  the  future  was  yet  plain,  resolved 
on  making  it  their  principal  object  to  leave  behind  them  some 
excellent  memorial,  by  which  they  might  secure  enduring 
fame,  and  at  least  live  in  after-times,  when  their  brief  span 
of  existence  had  ended.  Thus  we  read  in  the  books  of  cele- 
brated poets : — 

"  Denique,  si  quis  adhuc  prsetendit  nubila  livor, 
Occidet  J  et  meriti  post  me  referentur  hoaores.**  ^ 

"  Should  clouds  of  envy  still  around  me  spread, 
Harmless  on  me  their  venom  wiU  be  shed, 
And  honour's  meed  be  mine,  when  numbered  with  the  dead." 

A-nd  elsewhere  : — 

"  Quaque  patet  domitis  Romana  potentia  terris, 
Oro  legar  populi,  perque  omnia  ssecula,  fama, 
Si  quid  habent  veri  vatum  praesagia,  vivam."  ^ 

"  Far  as  the  power  of  Rome  the  world  obeys, 
All  climes  and  nations  shall  peruse  my  lays  j 
And,  if  inspired  poets  can  divine, 
Renown,  through  endless  ages,  shall  be  mine." 

This  was  the  first,  and  main,  incentive  with  the  greatest 
authors  to  undertake  their  works.  There  was  another, 
second  indeed  in  merit  as  well  as  in  order,  namely,  the  pa- 

1  Statius,  Thebaid,  xi.  818, 19.  «  Ovid.  Met.  xv.  877—9. 

B  2 


4  I'HE    TOPOGBAPHT    OF    lEELAKD. 

tronage,  reward,  and  encouragement  of  illustrious  priiiu»^». 
For  honours  are  the  nurses  of  the  liberal  arts : — 

"  Nam  si  Yirgilio  puer  et  tolerabile  desit 
Hospitium,  caderent  omnes  a  crinibus  hydrse."  ' 
"  The  snakes,  bad  Yirgil  no  Meesenas  found, 
Shook  from  the  Furies'  head,  had  dropt  upon  the  ground.** 

And  again : — 

"  Quis  locus  ingenio,  nisi  cum  se  carmine  solo 
Vexant,  et  dominis  Cyrrhae  Nisseque  feruntur 
Pectora  nostra,  duas  non  admittentia  curas."  ^ 
"  What  room  for  fancy  say,  unless  the  mind, 
And  all  its  thoughts,  to  poetry  resigned, 
Be  hurried  with  resistless  force  along 
By  the  two  kindred  powers  of  wine  and  song." 

The  philosophy,  however,  which  loves  a  happy  mean  and 
modest  independence,  neither  revelling  in  wealth,  nor  ex- 
posed to  poverty,  seems  to  have  been  condemned  by 
Solomon : — "  Grive  me,  O  Lord,  neither  riches  nor  poverty, 
but  only  what  things  are  necessary  for  subsistence."  For, 
although  mediocrity  is  not  allowable  in  poets, 

"  Won  dii,  non  homines,  non  concessere  columnse ;"  ' 
"  Which  gods,  nor  men,  nor  critics  will  permit ;" 

still,  if  their  wits  be  slender,  there  is  no  reason  why  they 
should  not  possess  a  moderate  competence. 

When,  therefore,  at  any  former  period,  the  last  mentioned 
inducement  to  write  ceased,  poetry  began  to  fail.  Not,  in- 
deed, that  poetry  was  altogether  lost,  or  philosophy  extinct ; 
nor  did  the  imperishable  records  of  glorious  deeds  ever 
fall  into  oblivion.  Letters  were  not  wanting,  but  lettered 
princes.  The  liberal  arts  had  not  disappeared,  but  the 
honours  which  ought  to  attend  them  were  withheld.  There 
would  be  no  lack  of  eminent  writers  at  the  present  day,  if 
there  ivere  none  of  enlightened  rulers.  Grive  but  a  Pyrrhus, 
and  you  will  have  a  Homer;  a  Pompey,  and  you  will  have 
a  TuUy ;  a  Caius  and  Augustus,  and  a  Virgil  and  Horace 
will  follow  in  course.  While,  then,  in  our  case,  the  second 
motive  for  writing  fails  for  want  of  patrons,  the  first  and 
most  powerful  of  those  I  have  mentioned  urges  me  on.    Eor 

'  ^UT.  Sat.  vii.  69,  70.     ^  lb.  vii.  64—67.     ^  Hor  Ars  Poet.  37?. 


THE   AtJTHOE's   FIEST   PEEFACE.  5 

nothing  can  better  tend  to  kindle  the  sparks  of  mental 
vigour,  and  fan  the  innate  fire  into  a  flame,  than  that,  sup- 
ported by  so  many  and  such  great  authorities,  and  borne,  as 
it  were,  upon  their  shoulders,  we  may  rise  to  eminence  by 
the  aid  of  their  manifold  grandeur,  if  only  we  have  confi- 
dence in  ourselves.  Nothing  is  so  great  a  hindrance  to  bold 
attempts  as  diffidence.  Despair  of  success  is  fatal  to  all 
efibrts  for  obtaining  it ;  so  that  many  men  of  praiseworthy 
talent  and  learning  have  for  this  reason  lived  in  idleness  and 
seclusion,  and  while  they  shrunk  from  proving  their  abilities 
by  active  exertion,  their  brilliant  merits  remained  hidden. 
Hence  it  happens  that  numbers  of  men  of  the  greatest 
learning  grow  old  without  knowing  their  own  powers  ;  and 
turning  the  force  of  their  genius  to  no  account,  for  want  of 
vigour  of  mind,  perish  like  the  beasts,  and  their  names  are 
lost  in  oblivion. 

Since,  then,  "  there  is  little  difference  between  powers  not 
called  into  action  and  buried  in  sloth ;"  since  "  fear  is  the 
token  of  a  degenerate  mind ;"  "a  work  well  begun  is  half 
ended ;"  and  "  fortune  favours  the  brave  ;"  I  have  resolved 
on  writing,  preferring  rather  to  incur  the  ridicule  of  the 
envious  and  malicious,  than  to  seem  in  the  judgment  of 
worthy  persons  to  shrink  from  my  task  through  fear.  Nor 
am  I  deterred  by  the  example  of  Cicero,  who  says  : — "I  do 
not  compose  a  poem  on  that  subject,  because  I  cannot  write 
such  verses  as  I  could  wish,  and  those  which  I  can  I  am 
unwilling  to  write."  My  own  determination  is  this,  and  on 
this  subject  it  is  very  decided — 

"  Cum  neque  chorda  sonum  reddat,  qiiem  viilt  manus  et  mens, 
[Poscentique  gravem  perssepe  remittit  acutum  :] 
Nee  semper  feriet,  quodcunque  minabitm'  arcus."* 

"  For  oft  the  strings  the  intended  sound  refuse ; 
In  vain  liis  tuneful  hand  the  master  tries  ; 
He  asks  a  flat  and  hears  a  sharp  arise  ; 
Nor  always  will  the  bow,  though  famed  for  art, 
With  speed  unerring  wing  the  threatening  dart." 

Feancis. 

If  I  cannot  write  as  well  as  I  would,  I  will  at  least  write 
according  to  the  best  of  my  ability.  Devoting  myself, 
therefore,  to  a  task  requiring  long  and  close  application, 

.^  ^  Hor.  Ars  Poet.  347—9. 


6  THE  TOPOGBAPHT  OP  lEELAND. 

shall  I  be  esteemed  presumptuous  or  provident,  exposing 
myself  to  the  shafts  of  envious  malice  while  I  live,  in  the 
hope  of  possibly  achieving  a  glorious  reputation  when  my 
days  are  ended  ? 

After  long  musing  on  this  subject,  and  after  anxiously 
revolving  it  in  my  mind,  at  last  it  occurred  to  me  that  there 
was  one  corner  of  the  earth,  Ireland,  which,  from  its  posi- 
tion on  the  furthest  borders  of  the  globe,  had  been  neglected 
by  others.  Not  that  it  had  been  left  altogether  untouched, 
but  no  writer  had  hitherto  comprehensively  treated  of  it. 

But  it  may  be  asked,  "  Can  any  good  come  from  Ire- 
land ?"  "  Will  its  mountains  drop  sweetness,  and  its  val- 
lies  flow  with  milk  and  honey  ?"  Let  us,  then,  endeavour 
to  suck  honey  out  of  the  rock,  and  draw  oil  from  the  flint. 
Let  us  follow  the  example  of  great  orators,  who,  in  an 
admirable  manner,  most  polished  the  shafts  of  their  elo- 
quence, when  the  poverty  of  their  subject  required  it  to  be 
elevated  by  the  superiority  of  their  style. 

Et  ferat  InvaHdse  robur  facundia  causae. 

It  behoved  them,  therefore,  to  lavish  the  graces  of  elocu- 
tion on  cases  which  were  in  themselves  barren  of  interest, 
that,  where  reasoning  little  availed,  language  might  do  its 
best.  Eor  such  is  the  eff'ect,  such  the  power  of  eloquence, 
that  there  is  nothing  so  humble  which  it  cannot  exalt  no- 
thing so  copious  which  it  cannot  amplify,  nothing  so  obscure 
which  it  cannot  clear  up,  nothing  so  clear  which  it  cannot 
illustrate.  Por,  as  the  noble  senator  says  in  his  Paradoxes : 
"  There  is  nothing  so  incredible  that  it  cannot  be  made  pro- 
bable by  the  manner  of  putting  it,  nothing  so  rude  and 
barbarous  that  a  brilliant  oratory  cannot  ornament  and  po- 
lish." But  what  can  a  discourse  which  has  but  a  slender 
pith  of  sense,  a  barren  waste  of  words,  offer  to  erudite  ears, 
and  to  men  of  the  highest  eloquence  ?  For  it  is  useless, 
and  altogether  superfluous,  to  address  the  eloquent  in  bar- 
ren phrases,  or  to  set  before  the  learned  things  which  every 
one  knows.  What  sort  of  sounds  would  the  cackling  goose 
utter  among  tuneful  swans  ?  Are  we,  then,  to  publish 
what  is  new,  or  what  is  already  well  known  ?  Men  recoil 
with  disgust  from  what  is  trite  and  common,  while,  on  the 
other   hand,  novelties   require   the   support   of  authority. 


fHfi   AUTHOR  S    FIEST    PBErAdE  7 

For,  as  Pliny  says,  "  it  is  a  difficult  matter  to  give  novelty 
to  old  subjects,  authority  to  new;  to  embellish  what  is 
threadbare,  shed  grace  on  what  is  out  of  fashion,  light  on 
obscurities,  give  confidence  in  what  is  doubtful,  and  nature 
to  all." 

Notwithstanding,  it  will  be  my  endeavour,  in  the  best 
manner  I  can,  to  rouse  the  reader's  attention,  by  setting 
before  him  some  new  things,  either  not  before  related  or 
very  briefly  noticed ;  exhibiting  to  him  the  topography  of 
Ireland  in  this  little  work  of  mine,  as  in  a  clear  mirror,  so 
that  its  features  may  be  open  to  the  inspection  of  all  the 
world. 

I  propose,  therefore,  to  take,  at  least,  a  distinct  view  of 
this  most  remote  island,  both  as  regards  its  situation  and 
character,  explaining  its  peculiarities,  so  long  hidden  under 
the  veil  of  antiquity,  and  searching  out  both  the  quali- 
ties and  defects  of  almost  all  things  which  nature  has  pro- 
duced there,  both  for  the  ornament  of  the  better  class  and 
the  use  of  the  lower  orders.  Besides  this,  I  propose  to  unravel 
the  stupendous  wonders  of  nature  herself,  to  trace  the  de- 
scent of  the  various  tribes  from  their  origin,  and  to  describe 
from  my  own  knowledge  the  manners  and  customs  of  many 
men.  And  since  the  country  of  which  we  treat  is  backward 
and  feeble,  it  will  be  no  small  satisfaction  to  studious  minds 
to  survey,  at  least  in  thought,  our  better  part  of  the  world 
and  its  condition,  having  all  things  made  easy  to  be  under- 
stood. 

This  work  is  divided  into  three  parts.  The  frst  treats 
of  the  situation  of  Ireland,  and  its  locality  in  reference  to 
the  Grreater  Britain ;  of  the  quality  of  the  soil,  its  inequa- 
lities, and  its  various  properties ;  of  the  fishes  and  birds 
which  are  distinct  from  ours  in  place  rather  than  in  origin ; 
of  wild  beasts  and  reptiles,  the  nature  as  well  as  defects  of 
the  several  species ;  and  of  the  absence  of  all  venomous 
creatures.  It  will  also  contain  a  comparison  of  the  East  and 
the  "West,  showing  that  the  West  is  deservedly  to  be  pre- 
ferred. All  which  is  distinctly  noted  in  the  titles  prefixed 
to  the  several  chapters. 

The  second  part  tells  of  the  prodigies  and  wonderful 
works  of  sportive  nature,  not  those  only  which  are  found  in 
this  country,  but  others  also,  of  whatever  kind  and  whep- 


8  THE   TOPOGEAPHT   OP   lEELAFD. 

ever  existing,  which  are  of  the  same  description.  It  also 
sets  forth  the  famous  records  of  Saints  celebrated  for  their 
virtues,  which  were  manifested  by  glorious  miracles  unknown 
to  the  world. 

The  third  part  treats,  in  regular  order,  of  the  first  inhabi- 
tants of  this  country,  and  the  various  immigrants  of  diffe- 
rent nations,  their  arrival  and  departure ;  of  the  habits  and 
customs  of  the  Irish  race  which  inhabits  the  island  to  the 
present  day,  and  of  their  subjugation  by  foreign  invaders. 
In  short,  it  gives  a  history  of  all  that  is  worthy  of  notice  re- 
specting this  nation  to  our  own  times. 

In  the  two  first  parts  I  have  found  no  direct  evidence 
from  the  Irish  records,  nothing  from  other  sources,  except 
the  advantages  I  derived  from  personal  inquiry,  which  could 
aid  me  in  my  task.  It  is  only  in  the  third  part,  which  treats 
of  the  inhabitants  of  the  island  and  the  origin  of  the  various 
races,  that  I  obtained  some  information  from  their  own 
chronicles.  But  these  having  been  heaped  together  by  the 
native  writers  in  a  loose  and  disorderly  manner,  with  much 
that  is  superfluous  or  absurd,  and  being  composed  in  a  rude 
and  barbarous  style,  I  have  digested  them,  with  much  labour, 
as  clearly  and  compendiously  as  I  could,  like  one  seeking  and 
picking  up  precious  stones  among  the  sands  on  the  sea-shore, 
and  have  inserted  whatever  was  of  most  value  in  the  pre- 
sent volume.  But  since,  from  the  wretched  state  of  human 
imperfections, 

*  Judicis  argutum  labor  hie  formidat  acumen  ;'  * 
'  I  tremble  at  the  critic's  shrewd  review ;' 
if  not  the  work  itself,  at  least  the  author's  design  has  claims 
to  commendation.  Eor  the  love  of  study  is  praiseworthy ; 
nor  does  it  appear  immeritorious  to  have  had  some  regard 
for  reputation  amidst  the  regtdar  and  almost  insupportable 
cares  of  attendance  at  court.  Be  it  his  praise,  then,  that 
while  the  body  was  subject  to  servitude,  the  mind  was  free. 
And  since  it  is  the  part  of  a  wise  man  to  take  breath  in  the 
refreshment  of  his  own  spirit  of  cheerfulness  when  at  times 
he  is  worn  by  outward  vexations,  and  to  diversify  wearisome 
employments  by  an  interchange  of  such  as  are  agreeable, 
nothing  that  is  pleasant  being  considered  a  task,  dignified 
leisure  intervening  between  the  multifarious  calls  of  business 
18  surely  worthy  of  commendation. 

1  Ars  Poet.  369. 


THE  authoe's  second  peepace. 


THE  AUTHOE'S  SECOND  PEEFACE. 

SILVESTER  aiEALDUS  CAMBRENSIS  TO  THE  ILLUSTRI- 
OUS  KING  OF  ENGLAND,  HENEY  II. 

It  hatli  pleased  your  excellency,  most  invincible  king  of 
England,  duke  of  Normandy  and  Aquitaine,  and  count  of 
Anjou,  to  dispatch  me  from  your  court  in  attendance  on 
Jofin,  your  beloved  son,  to  Ireland.  Coming  there,  not  as 
a  fugitive,  but  in  some  sort  as  a  scout  whose  office  it  is  to 
explore  the  country,  I  soon  found  occasion  to  remark  many 
things  which  are  quite  diiFerent  to  what  is  found  in  other 
countries,  and,  being  quite  strange,  are  for  their  novelty- 
much  to  be  wondered  at.  I,  therefore,  began  to  make  dili- 
gent inquiries  respecting  the  site  and  nature  of  the  country, 
the  origin  of  the  race,  their  customs,  how  often,  by  whom, 
and  in  what  manner,  the  island  had  been  subjugated  and 
conquered ;  and  what  new  and  secret  works,  contrary  to  her 
ordinary  rules,  nature  has  stored  up  in  these  western  and 
extreme  borders  of  the  earth.  For  beyond  these  confines 
neither  land  exists,  nor  is  there  any  habitable  spot  either 
for  men  or  animals ;  but  throughout  the  entire  horizon,  in 
boundless  space.  Ocean  only  sweeps  around,  and  rolls  its 
waves  in  unknown  and  unfathomable  channels. 

For  as  the  countries  of  the  East  are  remarkable  and  pre- 
eminent for  some  prodigies  peculiar  to  themselves  and  ori- 
ginating there,  so  also  the  Western  parts  are  dignified 
by  the  miracles  of  nature  performed  within  their  limits. 
For  sometimes,  like  one  wearied  with  serious  affairs  and 
realities,  she  withdraws  and  retires  for  a  little  space,  and, 
as  it  were,  sportively  employs  herself  with  extraordinary 
freaks  in  secret  parts  reverently  and  mysteriously  veiled. 
Having,  therefore,  selected  and  made  a  collection  of  the 
most  curious  facts,  I  have  deemed  it  a  not  unprofitable  lar 
bour  to  bring  those  which  appeared  most  worthy  of  notice 
into  one  point  ol  view  and  to  submit  them  to  your  high- 


10  THE  T0P0GEAP3T  OF  lEELANB. 

ness's  careful  coDsideration,  of  which  scarcely  any  part  of 
history  has  escaped  the  observation. 

I  might,  indeed,  have  presented  for  your  highness's  ac- 
ceptance, as  others  have  done,  some  little  offerings  of  native 
gold,  or  falcons  or  hawks,  with  which  the  island  abounds. 
But  I  thought  it  of  little  importance  to  offer  to  a  mighty 
prince  things  which  are  easily  procured,  and  are  perishable 
in  their  nature,  but  rather  preferred  to  send  to  your  high- 
ness what  cannot  be  lost,  and  thus,  through  you,  instruct 
posterity  by  means  which  no  lapse  of  time  can  destroy. 

I  esteemed  it  also  a  worthy  undertaking  to  give  a  short 
account  in  writing  of  the  virtues  and  victorious  honour  of 
yourself  and  your  illustrious  son,  that  the  great  glory  they 
have  conferred  on  our  age  may  not  be  merely  transitory, 
but,  by  the  aid  of  letters,  be  firmly  planted  in  the  memory 
of  posterity.  Nor  do  I  hesitate  to  believe  that  it  may  be 
well  entrusted  to  your  watchful  care,  that  through  the  re- 
cords of  such  noble  achievements,  the  minds  of  many  in 
future  times  may  be  roused  to  increased  vigour  by  the  ad- 
mirable examples  of  valorous  action ;  and  that  the  perusal 
of  these  pages  may  have  the  same  effect  as  the  statues  and 

f)ortraits  of  their  ancestors  had  on  men  of  old,  rousing  a 
audable  spirit  of  emulation,  not  only  in  ardent  minds,  but 
in  those  which  are  feeble  and  sluggish ;  fanning  the  sparks 
of  impetuous  valour  in  the  one,  and  lighting  up  the  £re  of 
innate  courage  in  the  other. 


CONTEUfTS    OF    THE    CHAPTESS.  H 


CONTENTS  OF  THE   CHAPTEES. 


DISTINCTION  I. 


THE   TOPOGEAPHT  AND   NATUEAL   HISTOEY   OP   lEELAND. 
OHAPTEB  FAOH 

I.  Of  the  situation  of  Ireland. — Of  the  distance  between 
Ireland  and  Britain. — What  land  it  has  on  the  south 
and  north,  and  on  the  east ;  and  how  far  distant  .  17 
n.  Of  the  Spanish  sea  which  embraces  Britain  and  Ireland 
with  two  arms. — How  far  Ireland  corresponds  with 
Britain  in  its  dimensions  and  quahties. — On  the 
length  and  breadth  of  Ireland  .  .  .17 

III.  Of  the  various  opinions  of  Solinus,  Orosius,  Isidore, 

and  Bede  ;  some  true,  some  erroneous  .  .     19 

IV.  Of  the  surface  of  the  country,  and  its   inequahties. — 

That  the  land  is  mountainous,  and  more  gravelly 
than  rocky. — Of  the  fertility  of  the  tillage-land ;  and 
that  the  grains  of  corn  are  so  light  that  they  can 
hardly  be  winnowed  from  the  chaff  .  .  20 

V.  Of  the  prevalence  of  wind  and  rain,  and  their  causes. 
— Of  the  prevailing  north-west  wind,  which  bows 
the  trees  in  a  certain  direction  .  .  .20 

VI.  Of  the  nine  principal  rivers,  and  several  others  which 
^^        have  burst  forth  of  late  .  .  .  .22 

VH.  Of  the  lakes,  and  the  islands  therein. — Of  the  fishes  in 
the  sea,  rivers,  and  lakes,  and  the  species  which  are 
not  found  in  Ireland. — Of  some  new  species  of  fishes, 

which  are  foimd  no  where  else  .  .  .25 

Vlll.  Of  the  birds,  and  those  that  are  wanting,  with  their 
natural  and  allegorical  significations. — Of  the  hawk, 
falcon,  and  sparrow-hawk,  and  their  natures  .     2G 

IX.  Of  the  eagle,  and  its  nature      .  .  .30 

X.  Of  the  crane,  and  its  nature     .  .  .  .34 

XI.  Of  barnacles   which  grow  from  fir  timber,  and  their 

natures  .  .  .  .  .  .36 

XII.  Of  birds  of  twofold  species,  and  mixed  breed  .     37 

XIII.  Of  martinets,  and  their  natures  .  •  .38 

XIV.   Of  swans  and  storks,  and  their  natures  ,  ,     39 

XV.  Of  birds  wliich  disappear  in  the  winter  .  .     89 


12  THE  TOPOaEAPHT  OP  lEEiAKB. 

CHAPTER  PAGl 

XVI.  Of  grasshoppers  which  sing  the  better  when  their  heads 
are  cut  off ;   and  revive   spontaneously  after   being 
long  dead        ...  .  .     40 

XYII.  Of  the  various  kinds  of  crows  found  here,  and  their 

natures  .  .  .  .  .  .41 

XVIII.  Of  the  croericE  which  are  here  white,  and  their  natures     42 
XIX.  Of  wild  animals,  and  their  kinds,  with  those  that  are 
wanting  ;  of  stags,  boars,  and  the  small  hares  here. — 
That  all  animals,  except  man,   are  more  diminutive 
here  than  in  other  countries.  .  .  .43 

XX.  Of  the  badger,  and  its  nature  .  ,  .44 

XXI.  Of  the  beaver,  and  its  nature  .  .  .  .44 

XXII.  Of  weasels,  and  their  natures  .  .  .  .46 

XXIII.  Of  reptiles,  and  those  that  are  not  fotmd  in  Ireland  ; 

and  that  there  are  no  venomous  creatures  — How 
venomous  animals  die  as  soon  as  they  are  brought 
over,  the  poison  losing  its  venom. — How  the  soil  of 
the  coimtry  destroys  venomous  reptiles. — Of  the 
leathern-thongs  of  this  country  used  as  an  antidote 
against  poison  .  .  .  .  .47 

XXIV.  Of  a  frog,  lately  discovered  in  Ireland  .  .  .50 
XXV.  Of  the  various  advantages  possessed  by  this  island,  and 

the  nature  of  the  climate. — That  it  is  cooled  by 
winds  from  all  quarters. — That  the  island  has  little 
need  of  physicians. — That  the  Irish  are  only  troubled 
with  the  ague  .  .  .  .  .51 

XXVI.  A  comparision  of  the  East  and  West. — That  in  the 
east  aU.  the  elements  are  pestiferous. — Of  the  veno- 
mous force  of  poison  in  the  East,  and  of  the  unhealthi- 
ness  of  the  climate  .  .  .  .52 

XXVII.  Of  the  singularly  temperate  character  of  our  chmate,  and 

that  we  are  happUy  free  from  many  disadvantages     .     53 
XXVIII.  That  the  East  is  the  fountain-head  of  poisons,  and  that 
more  advantages  are  to  be  found  in  the  West  than  in 
the  East         .  .  .  .  .  .55 


DISTINCTION  II. 

or  THE  WONDEES  AKD  MIEACLES  OF  lEELANB. 

I.  Of  the  very  strong  currents  in  the  Irish  sea,  and  the  ebb 

and  flow  of  the  tides  therein  .  .  .  .59 

II.  Of  the  difference  of  the  tides  in  Ireland  and  Britain      .     59 

III.  Of  the  influence  of  the  moon  on  the  waters  as  well  as 

on  natural  humom-s  .  .  .  .60 

IV.  Of  two  islands,  in  one  of  which   no   one   dies,  in  the 

other  no  animal  of  the  female  sex  enters        .  .     61 

V.  Of  an  island,  one  part  of  which  is  frequented  by  good 

spirits,  tlie  other  by  evil  spirits  .  .  .63 


CON^TEl^TS   OF   THE   CHAPTEES.  13 

CHAPTKB  PiUJB 

VI.  Of  an  island  where  human  corpses  exposed  to  the  atmos- 
phere do  not  suffer  decay       .  .  .  .64 
TIL  Of  the  wonderful  natures  of  some  fountains        .             .     65 
VIII.  Of  two  extraordinary  fountains,  one  in  Britany,  the  other 

in  Sicily  .    *        .  .  .  .  .69 

IX.  Of  a  vast  lake,  which  originated  in  a  remarkable  manner    70 
X.  Of  a  fish  which  had  three  golden  teeth    ,  ,  .72 

XI.  Of  the  Northern  islands,  most  of  which  are  in  subjec- 
tion to  the  Norwegians  .  .  .  .73 
XII.  Of  an  island  which  was  at  first  floating,  and  afterwards 

was  firmly  fixed  by  means  of  fire         .  .  .73 

XIII.  Of  Iceland,  which  is  inhabited  by  a  people  of  few  words* 

but  truthful,  who  never  take  an  oath  .  .     74 

XIV.  Of  a  whirlpool  in  the  sea,  which  sucks  in  ships.  '.     75 
XV.  Of  the  Isle  of  Man,  which,  on  account  of  the  venomous 

reptiles  it  harbours,  is  considered  to  belong  to  Britain    76 
XVI.  That  islands  were  formed  long  after  the  flood,  not  sud- 
denly, but  by  degrees,  from  alluvial  matter   .  .     76 
XVII.  Of  Thule,  the  Western  island,  very  celebrated  among 
the  Orientals,  but  totally  imknown  among  the  people 
of  the  West                 .             .             .             .             .77 
XVIII.  Of  the  Giants'  Dance,  which  was  transferred  from  Ire- 
land to  Britain           .             .             .             .  .78 
XIX.  Of  the  prodigies  of  our  times  j  and  first,  of  a  wolf  which 

conversed  with  a  priest  .  .  .  .79 

XX.  Of  a  woman  who  had  a  beard,  and  a  hairy  crest  and 

mane  on  her  back       .  .  .  ,  ,84 

XXI.  Of  an  animal  which  was  half-ox,  half-man  .  .     85 

XXII.  Of  an  animal  engendered  by  a  stag  and  a  cow  .  .     86 

XXIII.  Of  a  goat  which  had  intercourse  with  a  woman  .     86 

XXIV.  Of  a  Hon  that  was  enamoured  of  a  woman         .  .     87 

XXV.  That  cocks  in  Ireland  crow  at  different   hours  from 

those  in  other  countries         .  .  .  .87 

XXVI.  Of  wolves  which  whelp  in  the  month  of  December        .     88 
XXVII.  Of  the  ravens  and  owls  which  once  had  young  ones 

about  Christmas        .  .  .  .  .88 

XXVIII.  Of  miracles  of  saints ;  and  first,  of  the  apples  and  ravens 

and  blackbirds  of  St.  Keiwin.  .  .  .88 

XXIX.  Of  St.  Colman's  teal,  which  were  tamed  by  him,  and 

cannot  suffer  injviry       .         .  .  .  .93 

XXX.  Of  the  stone  in  which  a  cavity  is  every  day  miraculously 

filled  with  wine  .  .  .  .  .95 

XXXI.  Of  the  fleas  which  were  got  rid  of  by  St.  Nannan  .     95 

XXXII.  Of  the  rats  wliich  were  expelled  from  Femigenan  by  St. 

Yvor.  .  .  .  .  .  .96 

XXXIII.  Of  a  wandering  bell         .  .  ,  .  .96 

XXXIV.  Of  various  miracles  in  Kildare ;  and  first,  of  the  fire 

which  never  goes  out,  and  the  ashes  which  never  in- 

>         •  •  a  •  .     96 


14l  THE   TOPOGEAPHT    OF    lEELAKD. 

OHAPTEB  PAOH 

XXXV.  How  the  fire  is  kept  aliye  by  St.  Brigit,  on  her  night    .     97 
XXXVI.  Of  the  hedge  round  the  fire,  which  no  male  can  enter   .     97 
XXXVII.  Of  the  falcon  in  Kildare,  which  appeared  tame  and  do- 
mesticated     .  .  .  ,  ,  .98 
XXXVllI.  Of  a  book  miraculously  written              .             .             .99 
XXXIX.  How  the  book  was  composed    ....  100 

XL.  Of  the  places  of  refuge  miraculously  protected  by  the 

saints  ......  100 

XLI.  Of  the  salmon-leap          .  .  .  .  .102 

XLII.  How  they  leap    .  .  .  .  .  .102 

XLIII.  Of  the  Hfe  of  St.  Brendan  .  .  .  .103 

XLIV.  Of  the  cross  at  Dublin,  which  spake  and  bore  testimony 

to  the  truth    .  .  .  .  .  .103 

XLV.  How  the  same  cross  became  immovable  .  .  104 

XLVI.  How  a  penny,  offered  before  the  cross,  twice  leapt  back, 
but  the  third  time,  after  confession  made,  remained  ; 
and  of  the  iron  greaves  that  were  miraculously  restored  105 
XL VII.  Of  a  phrenetic  at  Ferns,  who  predicted  future  events     .  105 
XL  VIII.  Of  an  archer,  who  crossing  St.  Brigit's  hedge  was  struck 
with  madness ;  and  of  another  who  lost  the  use  of 
his  leg  .  .  .  .  .  .  106 

XLIX.  Of  the  seed  wheat,  which  being  cursed  by  the  bishop 
of  Cork,  failed  to  spring  up,  and  the  year  following 
was  miraculously  produced  from  rye  .  .   106 

L.  How  Philip  of  Worcester  was  struck   with  sickness  at 

Armagh,  and  Hugh  Tyrrell  divinely  scourged  .  107 

LI.  Of  the  mill  which  will  not  work  on  Simdays,  nor  grind 

any  corn  which  has  been  pilfered  or  pillaged  .  108 

LII.  Of  the  mill  of  St.  Fechin,  which  no  woman  may  enter   108 
LIII.  How  two  horses,  having  fed  on  oats  piUaged  from  thia 

mill,  immediately  died  .  ....  108 

LIV.  How  some  archers  at  Fiaglass  were  painished  by  heaven  109 
LV.  That  the  saints  of  this  country  appear  to  be  of  a  vindic- 
tive temper    ...•,,  Ill 


DISTINCTION  III. 

OF  THE  INHABITANTS  OP  lEELAND. 

I.  Of  the  first  arrival  of  Csesara,  granddaughter  of  Noah, 

before  the  flood  .  .  ,  .  .113 

II.  How  Bartholanus  was  the  second  immigrant,  300  years 

after  the  flood  .  «  •  •  .  114 

III.  How  Nemedus,  the  third  settler,  came  from  Scythia, 

with  his  fovir  sons      .  .  .  .  .116 

IV.  Of  the  fourth  immigration,  by  the  brothers  and  sons 

of  Dela,  who  first  divided  Ireland  into  five  equal 
parts   ...  ...  117 

\.  How  Slane  was  the  first  sole  king  of  Ireland  .  118 


COT^TENTS    OF    THE    CHAPTEES.  15 

OBAPTEB  ,  ,  .      ^^^* 

VX.  Of  the  fifth  immigration,  when  the  four  sons  of  kmg 
Milesius   came  over  from  Spain,    and   how  Herimon 
and  Heber  divided  the  kingdom  between  them  .  118 

VII.  How  the  brothers  quarrelled,  and  Heber  having  been 
slain,  Herimon  was  the  fij'st  sole  king  of  the  Irish 
people  .  .....  119 

VIII.  Of  Gurguntius,  king  of  the  Britons,  who  brought  over 
the  Basclenses  to  Ireland,  and  settled  them   in  the 
coimtry  ......  120 

IX.  Of  the  triple  and  new  rights  of  the  British  kings  .  121 

X.  Of  the  character,  customs,  and  habits  of  the  people  of 

Ireland  ....  .  .  121 

XI.  Of  the  incomparable  skill  of  the  Irish  in  playing  upon 

musical  instruments   .  ,  .  .  •  126 

XII.  Of  the  beneficial  efi'ects  of  music  ♦  .  127 

XIII.  Of  the  first  inventors  of  the  art  of  music  ^  131 

XIV.  Of  an  eminent  patron  and  improver  of  musical  instru- 

ments ......  131 

XV.  Whence  music  derived  its  name  .  .  .  132 

XVI.  How  many  kings  reigned  from  Herimom  to  the  coming 
of  Patrick,  by  whom  the  island  was  converted  to  the 

faith 132 

XVII.  That  there  were  no  archbishops  in  Ireland  before  the 
arrival   of  John  Papyrio,  who   planted  there  four 
archiepiscopal  sees  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  1152      ,  133 
XVIII.  How  the  bodies  of  three  saints,  Patrick,  Columbus,  and 
Bridget,  were  foimd  in  these  our  days  at  the  city  of 
Down,  in  Ulster,  and  translated         .  .  .  1 34 

XIX.  How  the  Irish  are  very  ignorant  of  the  rudiments  of 

the  faith         .  .  .  .  .  .134 

XX.  Of  their  abominable  treachery    ....  135 

XXI.  How  they  always  carry  an  axe  in  their  hands  instead  of 

a  staff  .  .  .  .  .  .135 

XXII.  Of  a  new  mode  of  making  a  league,  a  proof  of  their 

wickedness      .  .  .  *  .  .  136 

XXm.  How  they  love  their  foster-children  and  foster-brothers, 

and  hate  their  own  brothers  and  kindred       .  .  137 

XXrV.  How  new-comers  are  stained  with  the  same  vices  .  137 

XXV.  Of  a  new  and  monstrous  way  of  inaugurating  their  kings  138 
XXVI.  How  numbers  in  the  island  are  not  baptized,  and  have 

never  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  faith       .  .  139 

XXVII.  Of  many  laudable  quahties  in  the  Irish  clergy  .  .  141 

XXVIII.  Of  the  neglect  of  the  prelates  in  pastoral  discipline      .  142 
XXIX.  How  nearly  all  the  bishops  of  Ireland  are  elected  from 

the  monasteries  .....  143 

XXX.  How  the  clergy  difier  from  monks,  and  are  to  be  pre- 

ferred to  them  .....  144 

XXXI.  That  many  seem  to  be  in  the  fold  who  shall  be  shut 

out ;  and  the  contrary  •  .  .  ;  145 


16  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OP  lEELAND. 

CHAPTER  PAOB 

XXXII.  A  sarcastic  reply  of  the  archbishop  of  Cashel    .  .  145 

XXXIII.  How  bells  and  pastoral  staves,  and  other  such  relics 
of  the  saints,  are  held  in  great  reverence  by  the 
people  both  of  Ireland,  Scotland,  and  of  Wales  .  146 
XXXIY.  Concerning  the  great  virtues  of  the  pastoral  staff  caUed 
the  staff  of  Jesus  ;  and  how  a  priest  had  a  two-fold 
disease  inflicted  on  him  ....  146 

XXXV.  Of  *he  number  of  persons  in  this   nation  who  have 

bodily  defects  .....'  147 

XXXYI.  How  many  kings  reigned  from  the  time  of  St.  Patrick 

to  the  coming  of  Turgesius  .  .  .  148 

XXXVII.  How  in  the  time  of  king  Fedlimidius,  the  Norwegians, 

under  their  chief,  Turgesius,  subjugated  Ireland        .  148 

XXXVIII.  How  the  Enghsh  say  that  it  was  Griirmundus,  the  Irish 

that  it  was  Tvu'gesius,  who  conquered  the  Island       .  149 
XXXIX.  Whence  Gurmund  came  into  Ireland  or  Britain  .  150 

XL.  How,  when  G-urmund  was  slain  in  Gaul,  Turgesius 
perished  in  Ireland  by  the  hands  of  young  men  dis- 
guised as  girls  .....  151 

XLI.  How  the  Norwegians  were  driven  out  of  Ireland,  after 

reigning  there  about  thirty  years         .  .  .  151 

XLII.  A  subtle  question  of  the  king  of  Meath  .  .  151 

XLIII.  Of  the  arrival  of  the  Ostmen    .  .  .  .152 

XLIV.  How  many  kings  reigned  in  Ireland  from  the  death  of 

Turgesius  to  Eoderic  the  last  sole  king  of  Ireland      .  153 
XLV.  How  many  kings  reigned  from  Herimon  the  first  to 
Roderic  the  last  ..... 

XL VI.  How  from  its  first  immigration  to  the  time  of  Tur- 
gesius, and  from  his  death  to  the  expedition  of  Henry 
II.,  king  of  England,  the  Irish  race  maintained  its 
independence  .....  154 

XLVII.  Of  the  victories  of  Henry  TL,  king  of  England  .  155 

XL VIII.  A  short  recapitulation  of  the  titles  and  triumphs  of 

the  same  king  .....  155 

XLIX.  Of  the  characters  of  his  sons;  and  first  of  Henry  III., 

king  of  England        .....  157 

L.  Of  the  character  of  the  count  of  Poitou  .  .  159 

Of  the  difference  in  person  and  character  between  the 
two  brothers  ......  161 

Of  the  princes  of  Britany  and  Ireland  .  .  162 

How  the  brothers  quarrelled  between  themselves,  and 
with  their  father        >  .  .  .  .  l<Mi 

Of  the  Saxon,  Spaniard,  and  Sicilian  *  •  .  164 


DISTINCTION  I. 

CHAPTEE  I. 

OP   THE    STTUATIOIf   OF   lEELAND. 

Ibelant),  the  largest  of  islands  after  Britain,  lies  in  th^ 
Western  ocean,  a  short  day's  sail  beyond  Wales,  in  Bri- 
tain ;  but  between  Ulster  and  G-alway,  in  Scotland,  the  sea 
contracts  into  a  narrower  strait  of  about  half  the  breadth. 
There  are,  moreover,  promontories  on  the  coasts  of  both 
islands,  w^iich  may  be  seen  and  made  out  from  the  opposite 
side  more  or  less  distinctly,  but  in  all  cases  clearly  enough 
in  favourable  weather.  Ireland  is  the  most  remote  of  the 
western  islands,  having  Spain  parallel  to  it  on  the  south,  at 
the  distance  of  three  ordinary  days'  sail,  Great  Britain  on 
the  east,  and  the  ocean  alone  on  the  west.  On  the  north 
lies  Iceland,  the  largest  of  the  northern  islands,  at  a  dis- 
tance of  about  three  days'  sailing.^ 

CHAPTEE  II. 

or    THE    SPATTISH   SEA,   WHICH   EMBRACES    BEITAIN   aNE 
lEELAND    WITH    ITS    TWO    AEMS. 

The  Spanish  sea,  named  also  the  Iberian  sea,  either  from 
the  river  Iberus,  or  because  Spain  presents  the  form  of  a 
hemisphere,  receiving  the  waters  of  the  ocean   from  the 

1  As  the  distance  between  the  two  islands  cannot  be  less  than  eight 
degrees  of  latitude,  the  estimate  given  by  Giraldus  of  the  lengtli  of  time 
occupied  in  the  voyage  by  a  sailing  ship  of  those  days,  though  possible, 
must  be  taken  with,  some  reserve.  In  some  of  the  Icelandic  sagas  it  is 
computed  at  about  eight  days. 

C 


18  THE   TOPOGRAPHY    OF   lEELAlfB. 

west,  between  Ireland  and  Spain,  is  divided  into  two  arms. 
One  of  these  flows  between  Spain  and  Britain,  and  then, 
verging  to  the  north,  divides  France  from  Britain.  But 
although  the  mouth  of  this  channel  on  both  sides  touches 
lands  from  which  it  might  be  named,  it  is  most  commonly- 
called  the  French  sea,  taking  its  name  from  France  only. 
The  other  branch  of  the  Iberian  sea,  taking  its  course 
northward,  flows  between  Ireland  and  Britain,  and  extends 
in  length  as  much  as  it  expands  in  breadth  towards  the 
north,  until  it  mingles  its  waters  with  the  IS'orthern  ocean 
at  the  Orkney  islands.  Thus  separated  from  the  rest  of 
the  known  world,  and  in  some  sort  to  be  distinguished  as 
another  world,  not  only  by  its  situation,  but  by  the  objects 
out  of  the  ordinary  course  of  nature  contained  in  it,  Ireland 
seems  to  be  nature's  especial  repository,  where  she  stores 
up  her  most  remarkable  and  precious  treasures.  Collate- 
rally, Ireland  thus  occupies  such  a  position  in  regard  to  the 
adjacent  coast  of  Britain,  that  from  whatever  British  port 
any  one  sails  westward,  he  will  have  before  him  some  part 
of  it,  Britain,  however,  is  twice  as  large  as  Ireland ;  for, 
the  greatest  length  of  both  islands  running  north  and  south, 
Britain  is  eight  hundred  miles  long,  and  about  two  hundred 
miles  broad,  while  Ireland  extends  from  the  Brandane 
mountains^  to  the  island  of  Columba,  called  Thorach,'^  the 
length  of  eight  good  Irish  days'  journey,  which  is  forty 
miles  to  the  day ;  and  from  Dublin  to  St.  Patrick's  hills 
and  the  sea  of  Connaught  it  is  four  such  days'  journey  in 
breadth.  The  surface  of  Ireland  may  be,  therefore,  about 
as  large  as  Wales  and  Scotland,  the  better  part  of  the  island 
of  Britain,  which  was  in  ancient  times  annexed  by  its  kings 
to  their  own  dominions,  and  called  by  the  Britons  Loegria, 

^  A  Brendanicis  montibus,  perhaps  Mount  Brandon,  in  Kerry,  wliich 
would  not  be  a  measure  of  the  extreme  length  from  S.W.  to  N.E. 

2  We  take  this  to  be  Rathlin  island,  off  the  coast  of  Antrim,  which 
was  in  the  early  ages  the  chief  station  for  the  passage  from  Ireland  to 
Scotland,  and  as  such  the  rendezvous  for  a  number  of  merchants  and 
other  travellers.  It  may  be  concluded  from  its  Scandinavian  name, 
Thorach,  that  it  was  also  the  point  of  departure  for  Norway  and 
Iceland,  although  Malin  Head,  on  the  N.W.  point  of  Donegal,  is  the 
point  of  the  Irish  coast  nearest  to  Iceland ;  and  it  has  been  supposed 
that  the  station  mentioned  in  the  sagas  for  the  intercourse  between  th« 
two  islands  must  be  sought  for  in  that  neighbourhood. 


VAEious  opiirioirs  of  ieeland.  19 

from  Locrine,  tlie  eldest  son  of  Brute,  to  whom  it  was 
assigned. 

CHAPTEE  III. 

OF    THE   TAEIOrS    OPII^^IOIfS    OF    S0LI2s"US,    OEOSirS,    ISI- 
DOEE,    AND    BEDE  ;    SOME    TEITE,    SOME    EEEOKEOrS. 

SoLTNUS  describes  Ireland  with  sufficient  accuracy  as  one 
hundred  and  twenty  miles  in  breadth ;  but  he  says  nothing 
of  its  length.  Hence  I  conclude  that  the  island  was  un- 
known to  him,  especially  as  he  asserts  that  it  was  of  enor- 
mous magnitude.  Orosius,  better  informed,  represents 
Ireland  as  the  nearest  island  to  Britain,  with  a  much 
smaller  surface,  and  a  climate  the  temperature  of  which 
was  more  favourable.  Isidore  agrees  mth  Orosius,  saying 
that  Ireland  is  the  island  lying  nearest  to  Britain,  infe- 
rior in  size,  but,  from  its  situation,  of  greater  fertility. 
Bede,  also,  states  that  Ireland  is  much  superior  to  Bri- 
tain both  in  the  salubrity  and  serenity  of  the  atmosphere. 
He  is  right  as  to  its  salubrity ;  but,  with  due  respect  to  his 
opinion,  he  is  in  error  with  regard  to  its  serenity,  as  will 
appear  in  the  sequel  of  this  book.  For,  as  France  excels 
Britain,  so  by  far  does  Britain  surpass  Ireland,  in  the  sere- 
nity and  pureness  of  its  air.  For  the  further  you  go 
towards  the  East,  the  brighter  and  clearer  is  the  face  of 
the  sky,  the  more  penetrating  and  inclement  is  the  at- 
mosphere ;  but  when  you  turn  your  steps  nearer  and 
nearer  to  the  extremity  of  the  "West,  you  find  that,  the  air 
being  more  cloudy  and  thick,  as  well  as  milder  and  more 
wholesome,  it  renders  the  land  more  fruitful.  Ireland,  in- 
deed, lying  at  equal  distances  between  the  cold  of  Iceland 
and  the  heat  of  Spain,  with  its  temperature  moderated  from 
these  opposite  quarters,  the  country  is  happily  favoured 
both  in  having  a  temperate  climate  and  a  wholesome  air. 
In  shape  Ireland  is  much  rounder  than  Britain,  but  rather 
narrow  in  the  middle,  and  spreading  in  breadth  towards 
the  heads,  while  Britain  is  remarkable  for  being  more  ob- 
long and  narrow ;  and,  as  the  north  of  Ireland  is,  as  it  were, 
broken  off  and  much  shortened,  compared  with  Britain, 
so  its  southern  extremity  is  so  far  from  being  shorter,  that, 
according  to  Bede's  statement,  it  extends  much  beyond  the 
parallel  of  Britain. 

0  2 


20  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OF  lEELAKD. 


CHAPTEE  ly. 

OF    THE    SURFACE    OP   lEELAND,    AKD   ITS   INEQUALITIES} 
AND    OF    THE    FEUTILITT    OF    THE    SOIL. 

Ieelaistd  is  a  country  of  uneven  surface,  and  mountainous; 
the  soil  is  friable  and  moist,  well  wooded,  and  marshy  ;  it  is 
truly  a  desert  land,  without  roads,  but  well  watered.  Here 
you  may  see  standing  waters  on  the  tops  of  the  mountains, 
for  pools  and  lakes  are  found  on  the  summits  of  lofty  and 
steep  hills.  There  are,  however,  in  some  places  very  beau- 
tiful plains,  though  of  limited  extent  in  comparison  with 
the  woods.  On  almost  all  sides,  and  towards  the  sea-coast, 
the  land  is  very  low,  but  in  the  interior  it  rises  into  hills  of 
various  elevations  and  mountains  of  vast  height ;  not  only 
the  surrounding  country,  but  also  the  central  districts,  being 
rather  sandy  than  rocky. 

The  tillage  land  is  exuberantly  rich,  the  fields  yielding 
large  crops  of  corn ;  and  herds  of  cattle  are  fed  on  the 
mountains.  The  woods  abound  with  wild  animals ;  but 
this  island  is  more  productive  in  pasture  than  in  corn,  in 
grass  than  in  grain.  The  crops  give  great  promise  when  in 
the  blade,  still  more  in  the  straw,  but  less  in  the  ear  ;  for 
the  grains  of  wheat  are  shrivelled  and  small,  and  can  hardly 
be  separated  from  the  chaff  by  dint  of  winnowing.  The 
fields  are  luxuriantly  covered,  and  the  barns  loaded  with 
the  produce.     The  granaries  only  show  scanty  returns. 

CHAPTEE  Y. 

ON  THE  PEEVALEKCE  OF  WINDS  AND  EAIN ;  AND  THEIB 

CAUSES. 

The  crops  which  the  spring  brings  forth,  and  the  summer 
nourishes  and  advances,  are  harvested  with  difficulty,  on 
account  of  the  autumnal  rains.  Eor  this  country  is 
exposed  more  than  others  to  storms  of  wind  and  deluges 
of  rain.  A  wind  blowing  transversely  from  the  north- 
west, and  more  frequent  and  violent  than  any  other  winds, 
prevails  here ;  the  blast  either  bending  or  uprooting  all 
the  trees  standing  on  high  ground  in  the  western  dis- 
fcricts,  which  are  exposed  to  its  sweep.     This  arises  from 


:P»fi'TALEXCE    OP   WIKI)    Alf»    B,±tS.  21 

the  land,  surrounded  on  all  sides  by  a  vast  sea  and 
open  to  the  winds,  not  having  in  those  parts  any  solid 
shelter  and  protection,  either  distant  or  near.  Add  to 
this,  that  the  waters  attracted  in  clouds,  and  collected  to- 
gether by  the  high  temperature  of  that  region,  and  yet 
neither  exhaled  by  fiery  atmospheric  heat,  nor  congealed  by 
the  coldness  of  the  air  and  converted  into  snow  or  hail,  at 
last  burst  in  copious  showers  of  rain.  In  short,  this  country, 
like  other  mountainous  regions,  generates  and  nourishes 
most  abundant  rains.  Eor  the  heat  evaporating  from  the 
high  lands  by  excessive  wet,  the  moisture  which  they  attract 
is  easily  converted  into  its  native  element.  And  it  is  usu- 
ally distinguished  by  various  names,  according  to  its  various 
elevations.  While  yet  hanging  about  the  hills,  it  is  called 
mist ;  when  it  rises  higher,  and,  floating  in  the  atmosphere, 
is  quite  disengaged  from  the  earth,  it  becomes  clouds ; 
again  descending  in  drops  or  particles,  it  is  called  snow  or 
rain,  according  as  it  is  solid  or  liquid.  Thus,  Ireland, 
Wales,  and  Scotland  are  subject  to  much  rain. 

The  island  is  rich  in  pastures  and  meadows,  honey  and 
milk,  and  also  in  wine,  although  not  in  vineyards.  Bede, 
indeed,  among  his  other  commendations  of  Ireland,  says, 
"  that  it  does  not  lack  vineyards ;"  while  Solinus  and 
Isidore  affirm,  "  that  there  are  no  bees."  But,  with  all 
respect  for  them,  they  might  have  written  just  the  contrary, 
that  vineyards  do  not  exist  in  the  island,  but  that  bees  are 
found  there.  Vines  it  never  possessed,  nor  any  cultivators 
of  them.  Still,  foreign  commerce  supplies  it  with  wine  in 
such  plenty  that  the  want  of  the  growth  of  vines,  and  their 
natural  production,  is  scarcely  felt.  Poitou,  out  of  its 
superabundance,  exports  vast  quantities  of  wine  to  Ireland, 
which  willingly  gives  in  return  its  ox-hides  and  the  skins  of 
cattle  and  wild  beasts.  Like  other  countries,  it  has  bees 
producing  honey,  and  I  think  it  would  flow  from  their  cells 
more  abundantly,  if  the  increase  of  the  swarms  were  not 
checked  by  the  bitter  and  poisonous  yews^  with  which  the 
woods  of  the  island  abound  ;  or  rather,  if  the  violent  winds, 
and  the  moisture  of  the  climate,  in  Ireland,  did  not  disperse 

'  Giraldus  adopts  what  Virgil  says  of  Corsica  :— 

"Fugiunt  examina  taxoa." — Eel.  ix.  30. 


22  THE   TOPOGEAPHT   OF   lEELAin). 

the  swarms  of  so  minute  an  animal,  or  cause  tliem  to 
perish. 

It  may  be  alleged,  indeed,  in  favour  of  contrary  opinions, 
that  in  Bede's  time  there  were  possibly  some  few  vineyards 
in  Ireland,  and  that  St.  Dominic  of  Ossory,  as  some  say, 
introduced  bees  there  long  after  the  times  of  Solinus.  But 
I  can  scarcely  excuse  those  who  assert  that  the  soil  is  so 
noxious  to  bees,  that  if  any  one  scatters  dust  or  gravel 
brought  from  it  among  the  beehives  in  any  other  country, 
the  swarms  desert  their  cells.  Bede  also  affirms,  that  this 
island  is  famous  for  the  hunting  of  stags  and  wild  goats. 
"Whereas  it  is  a  fact,  that  it  never  possessed  any  wild  goats, 
and  is  still  without  them.  Nor  can  it  be  wondered  that 
these  writers  occasionally  deviated  from  the  truth,  when 
they  knew  nothing  but  what  they  learnt  at  second-hand 
and  from  a  distance,  in  which  they  placed  implicit  faith. 
Any  statement  rests  on  a  certain  foundation  of  truth,  when 
the  person  who  makes  it  has  been  also  an  eyewitness  of 
what  he  affirms.  Still,  these  writers  are  entitled  to  their 
due  share  of  praise  for  their  careful  and  generally  correct 
investigation  of  subjects  placed  by  distance  so  far  beyond 
their  observation.  And,  since  nothing  human  is  altogether 
perfect,  and  universal  knowledge  and  freedom  from  error  is 
the  attribute  of  divinity,  and  not  of  mortals,  any  mistakes 
which  may  have  crept  into  their  statements  must  be  con- 
sidered pardonable,  as  arising  both  from  human  imperfec- 
tions, and  the  remoteness  of  the  country  of  which  they  treat. 
This  indulgence  we  ask  for  ourselves,  while  we  grant  it  to 
others,  thinking  nothing  that  concerns  the  human  race 
foreign  to  our  object.^ 

CHAPTEE  YI. 

OF   THE   FINE    PEIKCIPAL   EIVEES,   AND    SEYEEAL    0THEB3 
WHICH    HAVE    BUEST    EOETH    OF    LATE. 

The  island  is  intersected  and  watered  by  nine  noble 
rivers,  which  have  been  celebrated  from  the  earliest  ages, 
even  from  tbe  time  of  Bartholanus,  who  first  settled  in  it 
after  the  flood.      Their  names  are  these  :  the  Avenlifius, 

*   "  Hanc  etiam  veniam  petimusque  damiisque  vicissim, 
Kihil  unquam  humani  a  nobis  alienuin  esse  putantes.^ 


THE    KIITE   PEINCIPAL   EITEES.  23 

fit  Dublin;'  the  Banna  runs  througli  Ulster;^  tlie  Moadus, 
through  Connaught  f  the  Slichenis  and  Samarius,  through 
Kenelcunnill  ;*  the  Modarnus  and  Phinnus,  through  Kenel- 
eonia;''  and  the  Saverennus  and  Luvius,  through  Cork.® 
There  are  also  several  other  rivers  flowing  through  Ireland, 
but  they  are,  so  to  speak,  new,  and,  compared  with  the 
others,  of  recent  origin,  though  not  inferior  to  them,  except 
in  respect  of  their  age.  Some  of  these  take  their  rise  from 
springs  which  have  their  sources  in  the  bowels  of  the  earth  ; 
others  bursting  suddenly  from  lakes  in  well-known  parts, 
divide  the  island  into  separate  districts  during  their  long 
course. 

I  think  it  not  superfluous  to  enumerate  some  of  these. 
Three  noble  rivers,  then,  rise  at  the  foot  of  the  Blandine 
mountain  -J  they  are  called  The  Three  Sisters,  because  they 
received  their  names  from  three  sisters.  These  are  the 
Beriia,  which  runs  through  Leighlin  f  the  Eyrus,  which 
runs  through  Ossory  f  and  the  Suyrus,  which,  after  run- 
ning through  Archfinia  and  Tribarccia,  falls  into  the 
sea  at  "Waterford.^"     The  Slana  runs  through  Wexford  ;^^ 

1  The  Liffey,  which  rises  in  the  Wicklow  mountains,  and,  as  here  in- 
timated, flows  into  the  bay  of  Dubhn. 

2  The  Bann,  a  river  of  the  north  of  Ireland,  which  passes  through 
Lough  Neagh,  and  enters  the  sea  near  Coleraine. 

3  The  Moy,  a  well-known  river  of  Connaught,  which  rises  in  Sligo, 
and  enters  the  bay  of  Killala.  *  The  SUgrach  and  Samar,  the 
latter  of  which  runs  through  Tyrconnell.  5  xhe  Morne  and 
Finn,  in  Tyrone.               ^  The  Bandon  and  Lee,  in  the  county  of  Cork. 

■^  Sliabh  Bladhwa,  or  SHeve  Bloom,  an  extensive  mountain  r£Uige; 
stretching  across  the  King's  and  Queen's  coionties.  The  Three  Sisters 
were  the  Barrow,  Nore,  and  Suir.  See  Spenser,  F.  Q.  lib.  iv.  cant,  xi 
42,43. 

'*  The  first  the  gentle  Shuve,  that  making  way 
By  sweete  Clonmell,  adomes  rich  Waterford ; 
The  next  the  stubborne  Newre,  whose  waters  gray 
By  faire  Kilkenny  and  Rosseponte  boord  ; 
The  third  the  goodly  Barow,  which  doth  hoord 
Great  heapes  of  salmons  in  his  deepe  bosome ; 

All  which  long  sundred,  doe  at  last  accord 
To  joyne  in  one  ere  to  the  sea  they  come ; 
So,  flowing  all  from  one,  all  one  at  last  become." 
*  The  Barrow,  which  rises  in  the  north  of  Queen's  County,  ana 
empties  itself  into  the  bay  of  Waterford.  ^  The  Nore  is  a  tribu- 

tary of  the  Barrow.  i®  The  Suir  rises  in  Tipperary,  and  flows 

into  Waterford  harbour.  ^^  The  river  of  Slaney  runa 

through  the  county  of  Wicklow,  and  flows  into  Wexford  harbour. 


34  THE    TOPOGRAPHY   OF   IEELA;^D. 

fhe  Boandus,    througli    Meath  ;^  the  Avonmore,''  through 
Lignioria  ;  and  the  Sinnenus,  through  Limerick.' 

Of  all  the  rivers  in  Ireland,  new  or  old,  the  Sinnenus 
deservedly  claims  the  first  rank,  both  for  its  full  and  ma- 
jestic stream,  which  flows  through  vast  tracts  of  country, 
and  for  the  abundance  of  fish  contained  in  its  waters.  It 
has  its  source  in  a  lake  which  divides  Connaught  from 
Munster,  and  forms  two  branches  which  take  opposite 
courses  ;  one  branch  flowing  eastward,  and  washing  the 
city  of  Killaloe  in  its  course,  after  embracing  Limerick,  and 
separating  for  one  hundred  miles  and  more  the  two  parts 
of  Munster,  falls  into  the  sea  of  Brandon.  The  other  branch, 
of  equal  importance,  divides  Meath  and  the  further  districts 
of  Ulster  from  Connaught,  and  after  various  windings  faUa 
into  the  Northern  Ocean.'*  Thus,  flowing  from  sea  to  sea, 
it  separates  the  fourth  and  western  part  of  the  island  from 
the  three  others.  Por  this  country  was  formerly  divided 
into  five  equal  provinces ;  namely,  the  two  Munsters,  north 
and  south,  Leinster,  Ulster,  and  Connaught.  Merlin's 
prophecy  predicted  that  they  would  be  reduced  to  one ; 
but  of  that  I  shall  speak  more  fully  in  the  proper  place. 
It  may,  however,  be  as  well  to  remark,  that  the  two 
Munsters  embraced  the  southern  parts  of  Ireland; 
Ulster,  the  north  ;  Leinster,  the  east ;  and  Connaught,  the 
west. 

1  The  Boyne,  which  rises  in  Queen's  County,  flows  north-east  through 
Trion  and  Cavan,  and  enters  the  sea  below  Drogheda. 

2  Lignioria  is  probably  a  misreading  of  the  manuscript  by  the  copy- 
ist for  Lismoria.  Avonmore  is  the  Irish  name  for  the  Blackwater, 
which  rises  among  the  mountains  on  the  borders  of  Cork  and  Kerry, 
passes  by  Lismore,  and  enters  the  sea  at  Youghat 

3  The  Shannon,  called  in  Irish,  Sinain.  It  is  not  easy  ta  account  for 
the  singular  error  into  which  Giraldus  has  fallen  with  regard  to  the 
course  of  this  celebrated  river.  He  seems  to  have  imagined  that  it 
was  a  branch  of  the  river  Shannon  which  discharges  itself  into  the  sea 
at  Ballyshannon,  in  the  bay  of  Donegal.  The  Shannon,  as  is  well  known» 
takes  its  rise  in  Lough  Allen,  in  the  coimty  of  Leitrim,^  and  takes  first  a 
southern  and  then  a  south-western  course,  till  it  discharges  itself  into 
the  Atlantic,  which  was  sometimes  called  St.  Brandan*s  sea,  because  it 
was  the  supposed  scene  of  his  marvellous  voyages. 

*  The  river  which  empties  itself  into  the  sea,  at  BaUyshannon,  it 
merely  the  outlet  of  the  waters  of  lake  Earae. 


LAKES  AlO)  FISHES.  25 

CHAPTER  YII. 

or  THE  LAKES,  AFD  THE  ISLANDS  THEEEIN  ;  OF  THE 
FISHES  12^  THE  SEA,  EIYEES,  AND  LAKES  ;  AND  OF  THOSE 
WHICH  AEE  NOT  FOUND  THEEE  ;  AND  OF  SOME  NEW 
SPECIES    OF    FISH   NOT    FOUND    ELSEWHEEE. 

This  island  is  also  especially  remarkable  for  a  great 
number  of  beautiful  lakes,  abounding  in  fish,  and  surpassing 
in  size  those  of  any  other  countries  I  have  visited.  These 
lakes  encompass  some  slightly  elevated  spots,  most  delight- 
fully situated,  which,  for  the  sake  of  security,  and  because 
they  are  inaccessible  except  by  boats,  the  lords  of  the  soil 
appropriate  as  their  places  of  refuge  and  seats  of  residence, 
where  they  raise  their  harvest. 

Sea-fishes  are  found  in  considerable  abundance  on  all  the 
coasts.  The  rivers  and  lakes,  also,  are  plentifully  stored 
with  the  sorts  of  fish  peculiar  to  those  waters,  and  especi- 
ally three  species  :  salmon  and  trout,  muddy  eels,  and  oily 
shad.^  The  Sinnenus  (Shannon)  abounds  in  lampreys,^  a, 
dangerous  delicacy  indulged  in  by  the  wealthy. 

This  country,  however,  does  not  produce  some  fine  fishes 
found  in  other  countries,  and  some  excellent  fresh-water 
fishes,  such  as  the  pike,  the  perch,  the  roach,  the  barbel, 
the  garden,^  and  the  gudgeon.  Minnows,  also,  biJlheada, 
and  verones,''  are  not  found  there,  also,  no  loches,  or  they 
are  very  rare.  Thus,  every  country  is  deficient  in  some 
particular  products.  In  G-reat  Britain  there  are  no  tortoises 
or  scorpions.  Cisalpine  G-aul  produces  no  leopards  or 
lions ;  Italy  has  no  perch ;  Palestine  no  pikes ;  and  both 
are  without  salmon.  So  also,  Italy,  Apulia,  Calabria,  and 
Sicily,  have  no  salmon  ;  and  no  part  of  Spain  produces  pikes, 
perch,  or  pheasants.  Crete  has  no  owls ;  the  Mediterranean) 
sea,  no  herrings  ;  and  the  kingdom  of  Hungary,  no  eels. 

^  Alosisqua  pra^pinguibtis.  The  shad,  the  clupea  alosa  of  modem  natu- 
ralists, caUed  in  France  an  alose.  It  is  not  a  fresh-water  fish,  but  ascends 
the  larger  rivers  from  the  sea,  and  is  most  deUcate  when  caught  in  the 
rivers.  ^  The  unwholesome  character  of  the  lamprey  is  proverbiaL 

Henry  of  Huntingdon  informs  us,  that  king  Henry  II.'s  death  was  caused 
by  indulgence  in  this  favourite  dish.  See  his  History,  in  Bohn's  Aniiq. 
Lib.  p.  259.  2  One  of  the  roach  family,  the  leuciscus  idua. 

*  One  of  the  smaller  members  of  the  genus  leuciscus,  in  modem 
French  veron,  is  supposed  to  answer  to  our  minnow ;  but  Giraldot 
tlearly  distinguishes  it  from  the  minuta,  the  old  French  menuise» 


'26  THE  TbPOGEAPHT  OF  lEELAKD. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  lakes  of  this  country  contain 
three  species  of  fish  which  are  found  nowhere  else.  One 
is  a  sort  of  trout,  called  also  salares,  which  are  longer 
and  rounder  than  trout,  and  which  are  white,  close-grained, 
and  good-flavoured.^  The  tymal,  commonly  called  the 
umber,^  resembles  the  former  kind  of  fishes,  except  that  it 
is  distinguished  by  a  larger  head.  There  are  others  which 
very  much  resemble  the  sea  herring  both  in  shape  and 
quality,  and  in  colour  and  taste.  A  third  sort  exactly  re- 
sembles the  trout,  except  that  it  has  no  spots.  The  first 
sort  is  called  Glassans,  the  second,  Cates,  the  third,  Brits} 
These  three  species  of  fishes  make  their  appearance  in  the 
summer  only,  and  are  never  seen  in  the  winter.  In  Meath, 
near  Eovera,*  are  three  lakes,  not  far  from  each  other,  each 
of  which  has  its  own  distinct  and  peculiar  species  of  fish, 
and  which  are  frequented  by  no  other,  although  they  are 
connected  by  streams  afi'ording  communications  between 
them ;  and  if  a  fish  of  one  kind  is  carried  down  into  the 
water  frequented  by  another,  it  either  perishes  or  finds  its 
way  back  to  its  first  abode. 

CHAPTEE  yill. 

OF  BIEDS,  AND  THOSE  THAT  AEE  WANTING,  WITH  THEIK 
NATUEES  AND  ALLEGOEICAL  SIGNIFICATIONS  ;  OF  THE 
HAWK,  THE  FALCON,  AND  THE  SPAEEOW-HAWK,  AND 
THEIE   NATUEES. 

IeeI/AND  has  some  aquatic  birds,  which  build  their  nests 
in  high  crags,  of  the  same  species  as  are  found  in  other 
countries ;  but  some  other  species  have  never  been  found 
there  from  the  most  ancient  times. 

This  country  produces  in  greater  numbers  than  any  other, 
hawks,  falcons,  and  sparrow-hawks,^  a  class  of  birds  which 
nature  has  endowed  with  courageous  instincts  and   armed 

1  Salares.  This  word  is  only  found  in  this  passage  of  Giraldus,  and 
it  is  not  quite  clear  to  what  fish  it  refers.  ^  xhe  name  umber  is 

now  given  to  the  mallus  vulgaris,  better  known  as  the  graylin. 

3  Glassanos — catos—britios.  These  appear  to  have  been  old  local 
names  for  the  fishes  alluded  to,  and  are  not  found  in  any  other  writex-s. 

^  Foure,  a  small  town  in  Westmeath,  situated  on  Lough  Lein. 

5  Nisos.  This  is  the  English  interpretation  of  the  Latin  nisus  g'.rea 
in  the  early  Anglo-Latin  vocabularies. 


BIRDS,    THEIE   NATUEES.  2^ 

with  curved  and  powerful  beaks  and  sharp  talons,  to  fit  them 
as  birds  of  prey.  It  is,  however,  a  remarkable  fact  in  the 
history  of  this  tribe  of  birds,  that  their  nests  are  not  more 
numerous  thau  they  were  many  centuries  ago  j  and,  although 
they  have  broods  every  year,  their  numbers  do  not  increase. 
"When  one  pair  perishes  by  any  accident,  another  takes  its 
place.  The  nests  diminish  in  number  from  a  variety  of 
circumstances,  but  nothing  occasions  them  to  increase. 
According  to  Cassiodorus,  birds  of  this  class,  which  live 
by  prey,  allow  their  young  no  rest  in  their  infancy,  that 
they  may  not  acquire  indolent  habits ;  they  beat  the  tender 
brood  with  their  wings,  and  compel  them  to  fly  as  soon  as 
they  are  fledged,  that  they  may  rear  them  to  habits  on  which 
the  parents  may  rely.  And  when,  in  process  of  time,  they 
are  strong  on  the  wing,  with  the  help  of  their  natural  in- 
stinct they  are  taught  to  seek  their  prey,  and  then  are  driven 
by  their  cruel  parents  from  their  native  seats,  to  which  they 
are  not  allowed  to  return. 

Since,  then,  it  is  a  much  easier  task  to  teach  the  ignorant 
than  to  reclaim  the  froward,  prudent  parents  will  breed  up 
and  educate  their  sons  after  the  example  set  them  by  these 
birds.  And,  as  idleness  engenders  instability  of  character, 
they  will  rouse  and  sharpen  their  will  by  constant  exercise, 
lest  embued  with  the  vices  attendant  on  listless  sloth  in 
their  riper  years,  they  may  find  it  difficult  to  unlearn  them. 

Moreover,  the  Lord  chastens  the  sons  whom  he  loves  ;  and, 
in  order  to  set  their  minds  more  earnestly  on  eternal  felicity, 
secures  their  happiness  by  present  calamities.  St.  Augus- 
tine says,  "  Nothing  is  more  unhappy  than  the  happiness  of 
sinners,  which  nourishes  in  them  a  fatal  sense  of  impunity, 
and  a  foe  within  confirms  their  propensity  to  evil."  Hence, 
Gregory  remarks,  that  "  oxen  intended  for  slaughter  have 
the  free  run  of  the  pastures,  while  those  that  are  reserved 
for  labour  are  put  under  the  yoke." 

So  also  sons  of  ripe  age  are  sometimes  sent  forth  from 
the  homes  of  their  parents,  for  kind  and  prudent  ends ; 
that,  left  to  themselves,  they  may  learn  caution  instead  of 
carelessness,  diligence  instead  of  idleness,  activity  instead 
of  sloth,  courage  instead  of  cowardice.  For  he  seldom  fails 
who  is  not  wanting  to  himself;  while  those  who  depend 
upon  the  assistance  of  others,  appear  very  often  to  fall 


28  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OF  lEELAND. 

short  of  their  aims.  JPop  this  cause  the  fathers  and  pastort 
of  the  church  gradually  admit  their  sons  as  they  become 
capable  of  receiving  higher  instruction,  to  seek  their  meat 
boldly  in  the  Lord's  pastures  ;  for  "the  kingdom  of  heaven 
suffers  violence,  and  the  violent  take  it  by  force."  They 
teach  them  also  to  despise  and  eschew  the  troublesome 
paths  of  this  life,  and  its  sinful  gulf,  and  to  direct  all  their 
efforts  towards  that  which  is  their  true  and  permanent 
country  ;  thus  compelling  them  by  a  most  merciful  severity 
to  be  mortified  to  the  world,  and  become  exiles  from  it. 

Moreover,  as  in  all  kinds  of  animals  the  males  are  natu- 
rally stronger  than  the  females,  so  also  in  these  birds, 
and  all  others  which  live  by  prey  and  have  to  pursue  their 
game,  and  therefore  particularly  need  for  their  subsistence 
strength  and  force,  the  female  sex  is  bolder  and  stronger 
than  in  other  kinds,  though  the  males  lose  something  of 
their  superior  privileges.  Perhaps  this  may  signify  that 
the  female  sex  is  more  resolute  in  all  evil  than  the  male. 
Tor,  as  Tully  says,  "  Men  will  sometimes,  to  gain  a  single 
object,  perpetrate  one  crime;  but  women  will  stick  at 
nothing  to  satisfy  their  desire»  in  a  single  instance."  So  it 
is  said,  in  Ecclesiasticus,  "  The  wrath  of  a  man  is  shorter 
than  the  wrath  of  a  woman."  Nor  are  they  ever  wanting 
in  efforts  to  establish  their  power  over  the  men  in  a  variety 

of  ways  ; ;^     and  Grod  makes  use  of  the 

weak  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  strong.  Thus, 
nature  has  so  deprived  the  males  of  these  birds  of  the 
privilege  of  their  sex,  that  as  they  grow  old  they  almost 
always  degenerate ;  wliile  in  the  other  sex  years  only  add 
to  their  vigour  and  swiftness. 

"We  find  it  remarkable  in  sparrow-hawks,  that  some  are  dis- 
tinguished by  white  spots,  some  by  red,  and  some  by  parti- 
coloured. Hence,  it  has  been  conjectured  that  they  con- 
tracted this  variety  from  the  trees  in  which  they  were  bred. 
But  as  this  difference  is  perceived  in  broods  from  the  same 
trees,  and  even  from  the  same  nests,  it  seems  to  be  the 
better  opinion  that  this  variety  in  their  plumage  is  derived 
from  the  parent  birds.  It  is  also  reported  of  the  sparrow- 
hawk,  that  when  the  frost  of  winter  is  very  severe,  it  seizes 
a  bat   towards  evening,   and  nestling  to  it  the  whole  of 

^  The  sequel  of  this  sentence  is  here  printed  in  the  original  Latin  : — 
•*  £t  effoeminatos  a  fceminis  viros  debita  virilitate  foeminfie  deprsedantur." 


BIBDS,   THEIR   >'ATrRES.  29 

tlie  niglit  for  the  sake  of  the  warmth,  lets  it  go  free  in  the 
morning  uninjured,  in  return  for  its  service.  Hawks  and 
sparrow-hawks,  differing  in  size  rather  than  instinct,  pounce 
on  their  prey  with  great  velocity,  and  either  fail  in  their 
first  attack,  or  carry  it  off. 

There  are  several  kinds  of  falcons,  both  large  and  small, 
high  bred,  and  kestrels ;  merlins  (nieruli)  also,  small  and 
summer  birds,  though  sluggish  at  first  when  fat,  afterwards 
swoop  suddenly  on  their  prey,  and  soaring  on  high  in  wide 
circles,  pounce  from  above  on  the  quarry,  and  having  struck 
it  and  crushed  it  with  the  force  of  their  breasts,  pierce  it 
and  tear  it  to  pieces  with  their  extended  claws.  Their  flight 
is  so  rapid  and  unwearied  that,  pursuing  the  bird  which 
endeavours  to  escape,  and  flits  from  side  to  side,  now  high, 
now  low,  while  all  the  spectators  are  filled  with  delight ;  no 
length  of  flight  in  the  vast  aerial  amphitheatre,  no  artifice 
of  the  fugitive,  can  save  it  from  its  relentless  foe.  Hawks 
and  sparrow-hawks  are  of  a  more  delicate  nature,  requiring 
choicer  food  and  more  careful  keepers.  Falcons  are  both  more 
pertinacious  in  their  attacks,  and  more  ready  to  return  to 
their  keeper  when  he  raises  his  hand,  or  even  at  his  call. 
May  we  not  compare  to  the  first  class  of  birds,  those  who, 
indulging  in  sumptuous  banquets,  equipages,  and  clothing, 
and  the  various  other  allurements  of  the  flesh,  are  so  won 
by  their  charms,  that  they  study  only  earthly  things,  and 
give  themselves  up  to  them ;  and  as  they  do  not  soar  on 
high  to  gain  the  prize  by  resolute  and  persevering  efforts, 
their  conversation  is  on  earth,  and  not  in  heaven. 

Those,  again,  may  be  compared  to  the  other  class  of 
birds,  who,  rejecting  altogether  a  delicate  diet  and  all  the 
other  delights  of  the  flesh,  choose  rather,  by  Divine  inspi- 
ration, to  suffer  hardships  and  privations.  And,  since  all 
virtue  soars  high,  struggling  upwards  with  all  their  efforts, 
their  aim  and  object  is  that  recompense  and  reward  for 
their  labours  above,  which  the  violent  take  by  force. 

Falcons  derive  their  name  from  a  sickle  (falce),  because 
they  whirl  their  flight  in  a  circle  ;  gerfalcons  are  so  called 
from  their  gyrations  (^gyrofadendo)  \  sparrow-hawks  {nisi), 
from  their  swoop  {nisu)  ;  and  hawks  {accipitres)  from  their 
greed  of  prey  (accipiendo) } 

^  It  may  be  right  to  remark,  that  most  of  these  derivations  are  more 
flmciful  than  correct. 


THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF    lEELAIfD. 


CHAPTER   IX. 

OP    THE    EAGLE,    AND    ITS    NATTJEE. 

Eagles  are  as  numerous  here  as  kites  are  in  other  coun- 
tries. These  birds  eye  with  fixed  gaze  the  full  effulgence  of 
the  solar  rays ;  and  it  is  reported  that  they  teach  their 
young  to  do  the  same,  though  unwilling.  Hence,  eagles 
{aquilce)  are  so  called  from  their  piercing  eyes  {acu- 
mine).  Thus,  contemplative  men  strive  to  fijK  the  whole 
powers  of  their  mind  without  distractions  on  the  very 
essence  of  the  Divine  majesty,  and  on  the  true  sun  of  right- 
eousness, and,  putting  their  hands  to  the  plough  of  the 
heavenly  paradise,  do  not  look  backward.  The  fathers  of 
the  church  also,  in  order  to  accustom  their  sons  in  tender 
age  to  that  which  is  good,  teach  them  to  turn  the  eyes  of 
the  soul  to  the  intuition  and  the  desire  of  the  light  divine. 

Eagles  also  live  for  so  many  ages,  that,  enjoying  renewed 
youth,  they  seem  to  contend  with  eternity  itself.  So  also  the 
saints,  renewed  with  the  innocence  of  childhood,  having 
put  off  the  old  man,  and  put  on  the  new  man,  obtain  the 
blessed  fruit  of  everlasting  life.  Again,  eagles  often  soar 
so  high  in  their  flight,  that  their  wings  are  scorched  with 
the  fiery  rays  of  the  sun.  So  those  who  in  the  Holy  Scrip- 
tures strive  to  unravel  the  deep  and  hidden  secrets  of  the 
heavenly  mysteries,  beyond  what  is  allowed,  and  those  limits 
which  it  is  not  permitted  us  to  pass,  returning  to  themselves 
halt  below  as  if  the  wings  of  the  presumptuous  imagination 
on  which  they  were  borne  were  scorched  in  their  flight. 
But  since  a  subject  of  great  importance  here  incidentally 
occurs — for  I  have  both  read  and  observed  myself  that 
numbers  in  many  parts  of  the  world  have  erred  in  this 
matter — I  think  I  shall  be  pardoned  for  dwelling  upon  it  a 
little  longer,  and  with  more  attention. 

Kocks  and  stones,  and  masses  of  earth,  which  of  themselves 
are  incapable  of  motion,  being  only  ponderous  bodies  which 
tend  to  the  centre,^  are  vastly  excelled  by  trees  and  herbs, 

^  Ad  centrum  tendunt.  The  tendency  of  heavy  bodies  to  a  centre  was 
an  article  of  the  higher  science  doctrines  of  the  age  of  Giraldus,  and 
is  stated  still  more  fully  by  his  contemporary,  Alexander  Neckam,  in 
his  treatise  De  Naturis  Rerum.  It  was  a  foreshadowing  of  the  Newto» 
aum  doctrine. 


THE   EAGLE.  31 

Whicli  have,  as  it  plainly  appears,  a  certain  living  vegetation 
and  vegetable  life,  by  which  they  sensibly,  though  without 
sense,  move  and  grow,  and  increase  and  multiply.  Again, 
trees  and  herbs  are  far  surpassed  by  brute  animals,  which 
have  the  power  of  moving  themselves  from  place  to  place, 
and  by  some  instinct  know  their  own  stalls,  and  have  some 
memory  of  the  past.  On  this  account,  several  of  them  are 
even  esteemed  higher  than  rational  creatures  ;  "  for  where 
reason  abounds,  there  imagination  yields."  All  these, 
however,  are  far  surpassed  by  the  microcosm  man,  who, 
richly  gifted  with  intellect  and  reason,  lifting  his  face 
to  heaven,  and  having  the  use  of  speech,  worships  his  Cre- 
ator, and  is  the  most  perfect  of  all  terrestrial  creatures. 
But,  as  far  as  man  excels  all  others,  so  are  angelical  beings 
pre-eminent,  being  as  far  above  man  in  their  subtle 
essence,  and  in  their  dwelling  on  high,  in  familiar  inter- 
course with  the  Creator,  in  whose  presence  they  always 
stand,  as  they  are  his  superiors  in  intellect.  Finally,  the 
Almighty  and  All-creating  God,  as  the  potter  is  superior  to 
the  clay  he  moulds,  and  the  artificer  to  the  material  on 
which  he  works,  incomparably  transcends  all  creatures  with 
a  pre-excellence  surpassing  all  powers  of  language  or 
thought.  Tor  He  formed  all  things  according  to  his  will ; 
He  spake,  and  they  were  made ;  He  commanded,  and  they 
were  created.  From  Him  is  all  wisdom,  and  out  of  His 
fullness  we  all  receive.  From  Him  it  is  that  we  exist,  and 
are  intelligent  beings,  as  from  the  source  from  which  all 
intellect  flows,  as  the  stream  from  its  fountain.  Since  then 
human  nature  is  so  much  inferior  and  less  worthy  than  the 
angelical,  tell  us,  0  man,  with  what  face,  with  what  temerity 
thou  presumest  to  scrutinize  and  trace  out  those  mysteries, 
to  the  investigation  of  which  the  very  angels  esteem  them- 
selves wholly  incompetent  ?  By  what  arrogance  dost  thou 
aspire  to  embrace  with  the  powers  of  thy  intellect  things 
which  no  intelligence  can  grasp  or  comprehend  ?  As  He  is 
incomprehensible  before  whose  majesty  dominations  adore 
and  powers  tremble,^  so  His  judgments  are  incomprehensible, 
and  His  ways  past  finding  out.  My  thoughts  are  not  aa 
your  thoughts,  nor  my  ways  as  your  ways,  saith  the  Lord. 
^  Dominationes,  potestates.  Terms  in  the  mediaeval  theology  indicating 
different  orders  of  the  angels  in  heaven.  Both  the  dominations  and  the 
potestates  and  powers  formed  the  second  rank  of  the  angelic  hierarchy. 


32  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OP  lEELAKD. 

For  as  the  heavens  are  exalted  above  the  earth,  so  are  my 
ways  above  your  ways,  and  my  thoughts  above  your  thoughts. 
"Why  is  your  heart  so  lifted  up,  and  your  eyes  raised  on 
high,  that  you  are  conversant  with  wonders  and  with  mira- 
cles which  are  above  you  ?  Does  your  pride  so  separate 
you  from  the  love  of  G-od,  that  while  you  are  wise  in  that 
which  is  above  knowledge,  and  aspire  to  still  higher  attain- 
ments, you  turn  aside  from  the  path  of  the  humble  ?  Not- 
withstanding, it  becomes  us  best  not  to  know  more  than 
we  ought  to  know,  but  to  be  wise  with  soberness. 

Eeware  then,  lest  in  thus  employing  your  intelligence  you 
become  as  though  you  had  no  understanding.  Beware,  lest 
abusing  the  privileges  of  reason  and  intellect,  through  which, 
by  the  merciful  goodness  of  the  Creator,  you  excel  all  beings 
under  the  sun,  you  justly  forfeit  them.  Fix  not  your  seat 
in  the  IN'orth,  and  seek  in  vain  to  be  equal  with  the  Most 
Highest.  Beware,  lest,  lifting  up  your  horn,  you  speak  evil 
against  the  Lord.  Beware,  lest  exalting  yourself,  you  fall  from 
on  high.  Beware,  I  say,  lest,  being  so  immeasureably  exalted, 
your  fall  be  equally  great.  Be  wise,  therefore,  ye  foolish 
among  the  people,  and,  ye  unwise,  have  some  understanding. 
He  that  planted  the  ear,  shall  He  not  hear?  and  He  that  made 
the  eye,  shall  He  not  see  ?  He  that  proveth  man,  shall  He 
not  chastise  ?  and  He  that  teacheth  man  wisdom  ?  The 
Lord  knoweth  the  thoughts  of  man,  that  they  are  but  vain. 
Hear,  rather,  how  humbly  the  man  whom  Grod  himself  tes- 
tifies to  have  found  after  his  own  heart :  I  mean  David  the 
king  and  prophet,  sings  in  the  Psalms :  "  Lord,  I  am  not 
hioh-minded,  nor  are  my  eyes  lifted  up ;  nor  have  I  exercised 
myself  in  great  matters,  nor  m  wonders  that  are  above 
me."  Listen  to  what  Solomon,  the  wisest  of  the  kings  of  the 
earth,  said  to  his  son  :  My  son,  search  not  into  things  that 
are  above  thee,  nor  inquire  into  those  that  are  mightier 
than  thee ;  but  meditate  always  on  what  the  Lord  hath 
commanded  thee,  and  in  many  of  his  works  be  not  too 
curious.  Also,  to  one  who  eateth  too  much  honey,  it  is 
bitter  and  evil ;  and  elsewhere,  if  thou  findest  honey,  eat 
that  which  shall  satisfy  thee,  lest  if  thou  eat  too  much 
thou  vomit  it  up.  Again,  to  quote,  in  part,  the  words  of  Job  : 
How  can  man  be  more  just  than  Grod,  or  purer  than  his 
Maker  ?     Behold,  his  servants  are  not  to  be  trusted,  and 


THS   EAGLE.  33 

his  angels  he  charged  with  folly.  How  much  more  those 
who  dwell  in  houses  of  clay,  whose  foundation  is  in  the 
dust,  while  they  lift  their  face  to  heaven,  they  shall  perish 
and  be  consumed  as  it  were  by  the  moth.  And  again,  in 
the  same  :  Man  shall  not  be  justified  when  compared  with 
God. 

Tell  me  then,  thou  frail  potsherd,  with  what  face,  against 
reason  and  against  faith,  thou  presumest  to  give  an  account 
of  all  things  above  and  below,  and  especially  of  those  which 
are  above  all  reason  ?  For  what  can  be  more  contrary  to 
reason,  than  by  the  use  of  reason  to  strive  to  master  that 
which  transcends  reason  ?  And  what  is  more  contrary  to 
laith  than  to  refuse  to  believe  whatever  reason  cannot 
grasp  ?  "  He  who  is  swift  to  believe  is  light-minded  ;"  as 
much  as  to  say,  that  faith  is  to  be  controlled  by  reason. 
But  understand,  that  Solomon  did  not  speak  of  faith  in 
God,  but  of  mutual  confidence  amongst  ourselves.  Gregory 
distinctly  denies  the  merit  of  fait'h  in  God  which  is  founded 
on  the  experience  of  human  reason.  The  Apostles  are 
commended  for  having  followed  their  Master  in  obedience 
to  his  simple  summons.  It  was  said  in  praise  of  one :  "  At 
the  hearing  of  the  ear  he  obeyed  me."  On  the  other  hand, 
those  disciples  are  rebuked  who  were  slow  to  believe. 
Finally,  Mary  was  commended  for  having  preferred  faith  to 
reason,  and  Zacharias  was  punished  because  he  tried  faith 
by  the  test  of  reason.  And  again,  Abraham  was  com- 
mended because  against  hope  he  believed  in  hope. 

To  retu^n,  however,  to  natural  objects.  What  master 
ever  intrusted  to  his  servant  all  the  secrets  of  his  heart  ? 
or,  did  even  Euryalus  to  Nisus,  Tydeus  to  Polynices,  Orestes 
to  Pylades,  without  reserving  in  the  inmost  recesses  of  his 
soul  many  which  he  would  never  unfold  or  make  known  to 
anyone  ?  How  much  more  must  He  who  is  most  infinite, 
reserve  to  himself  things  that  are  infinite  ?  Will  He  who 
is  the  Maker  and  Euler  of  the  universe  entirely  reveal 
Himself  to  the  lowest  of  his  servants,  who  are  but  dust, 
so  that  all  that  relates  or  can  relate  to  the  lofty,  the  in- 
scrutable, the  ineff'able  nature  of  the  Divinity,  should  be 
open  to  the  ken  of  a  being  so  frail,  so  corruptible,  so  vile 
in  his  nature,  as  man  ?  Who  ever  saw  a  picture  rival  the 
art   of  the   painter  ?     Shall  the  vessel  say  to  the  potter, 

o 


84  THE   TOPOGEAPHY   OF   lEELASD. 

"Why  did  you  mould  me  in  a  shape  which  is  narrow  at  tha 
mouth  and  swells  out  below  ?  Thus,  it  is  said  in  the  Book 
of  "Wisdom,  Who  hath  measured  the  sand  of  the  sea,»  the 
drops  of  rain,  and  the  days  of  eternity  ?  Who  hath  meted 
the  height  of  the  heavens,  the  breadth  of  the  earth, 
and  the  depth  of  the  abyss  ?  Who  hath  searched  out 
the  wisdom  of  God,  which  was  before  all  things  ?  And 
again,  to  whom  is  the  root  of  wisdom  revealed,  and  who 
hath  known  all  her  secrets  ?  To  whom  is  the  discipline  of 
wisdom  revealed  and  made  manifest,  and  who  hath  under- 
stood the  numbers  of  her  goings  out  ?  There  is  one  Most 
High  and  Omnipotent  Creator.  God,  who  sits  and  rules  on 
his  throne,  is  a  mighty  king,  and  greatly  to  be  feared.  He 
created  wisdom  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  saw  it,  and  counted 
and  meted  it  out,  and  poured  it  forth  over  all  his  works,  and 
in  all  flesh  bestowed  it  on  those  who  love  him.  Thus,  on  his 
people  He  has  shed  wisdom,  not  in  entirety,  but  in  portions, 
and  as  it  were  in  rivulets,  that  in  all  their  wants  they  may 
recur  to  him  as  the  fountain-head,  the  well  of  living  waters, 
inexhaustible  and  never-failing.  Since  then,  the  wisdom  of 
the  Lord  is  a  deep  abyss,  the  heaven  of  heavens  is  His,  and 
what  remains  He  will  have  destroyed  by  fire,  we  ought  to 
remember  with  thanks  that  we  are  admitted  to  the  know- 
ledge of  things  in  part  only,  and  not  to  the  fulness  of  intelli- 
gence and  comprehension.  Hence,  when  some  one  irreve- 
rently inquired,  "  What  God  did  before  the  world  was  cre- 
ated ?"  Augustine  replied,  "  He  prepared  hell  for  those 
who  ask  foolish  questions."  It  is  in  vain,  therefore,  to  tor- 
ment ourselves  with  such  inquiries,  and  I  shall  finally 
conclude  with  the  positive  axiom,  that  a  well-disposed 
mind  does  not  search  into  such  things.  Into  a  malevolent 
mind  wisdom  will  not  enter.  To  use  the  words  of  the 
prophet :  "  How  great  are  thy  works,  O  Lord :  thy  thoughts 
are  very  deep ;  an  unwise  man  doth  not  know  this,  and  a 
fool  doth  not  understand  it." 

CHAPTEE  X. 

or   THE    CEANE,   AND   ITS   l^'ATUEE. 

Cranes  assemble  in  such  numbers,  that  a  hundred,  or  about 
that  number,  are  often  seen  in  one  flock.    By  natural  in» 


THE    CEANE.  35 

Btinct  they  keep  watcli  in  turns  at  night  for  their  common 
safety,  perched  on  one  foot,  and  holding  a  stone  in  the  other 
featherless  claw,  that  if  they  should  fall  asleep,  the  fall  of 
the  stone  may  rouse  them  to  reuew  their  watch. 

These  birds  are  emblems  of  the  bishops  of  the  church, 
whose  office  it  is  to  keep  watch  over  their  flock,  not  know- 
ing at  what  hour  the  thief  will  come.  And  any  sacred  duty 
should  employ  the  mind,  and  be  like  the  stone,  ready  to  drop. 
It  should  utterly  shake  off  all  sloth,  and  allow  nothing  to 
be  thought  of  but  itself.  And  if  by  any  chance  it  should 
sometimes  fail,  the  mind,  being  inured  to  its  habitual  occu- 
pation, resumes  it  like  one  awakened  out  of  sleep. 

This  bird  also  gives  notice  of  danger  by  its  cries.  In 
like  manner  the  pastors  of  the  church  drive  the  wolves 
from  the  fold  by  sounding  the  alarm  from  the  holy  oracles, 
and  with  unwearied  diligence  lift  up  their  voice  like  a  trum- 
pet. The  liver  of  this  bird  is  also  of  such  a  fiery  heat,  that, 
when  by  any  chance  it  swallows  iron,  its  stomach  digests  it. 
So  bowels  inflamed  with  the  fire  of  charity  subdue  and 
soften  iron  hearts  which  were  before  indurate,  and  reduce 
them  to  soft  concord  in  brotherly  love. 

Wild  peacocks  here  abound  in  the  woods,^  but  wild  hens, 
which  the  common  people  call  griites,  {grutas)  are  here 
small  and  scarce,  being  both  in  shape  and  colour  very  like 
partridges.  There  are  immense  flights  of  snipes,^  also 
called  kardioli,  both  the  larger  species  of  the  woods,  and 
the  smaller  of  the  marshes ;  but  the  latter  are  the  more 
abundant.  Quails  are  found  in  considerable  numbers ;  ra- 
tulce,^  also,  with  their  hoarse  cries,  are  innumerable ;  and 
clouds  of  larks  singing  praise  to  Grod. 

^  The  bird  here  mentioned  is  probably  the  capercailzie,  or  cock  of  the 
wood,  a  noble  bird  of  the  size  of  a  turkey,  called  in  Norway  "  tioer," 
which  is  met  with  in  the  pine  forests  of  that  country,  but  seldom  in  any 
great  numbers. 

*  Acetce.  This  Latin  word  is  explained  in  the  Anglo-Saxon  glossaries 
by  mite^  the  old  form  of  snipe,  or  rude-cocc,  perhaps  an  error  for  wude 
eocc,  the  woodcock,  so  that  the  latter  are  here  probably  meant  by  "  the 
larger  species  of  the  woods,"  and  '•  the  smaller  of  the  marshes"  is  no 
doubt  the  ordinary  snipe. 

*  It  has  been  suggested  that  we  ought  to  read  ranula  for  ratul<B  in 
the  text  of  Griraldus  j  but  it  is  evident  that  he  intended  to  speak  of  a 
bird,  though  of  what  kind  is  uncertain. 

p  3 


THE   TOPOGEAPHT   OF   IBELAin). 


CHAPTEE   XI. 

OP     BAENACLES,    WHICH     &EOW     PEOM     FIB     TIMBEE,     AITB. 
THEIE   NATFEE. 

Theee  are  likewise  here  many  birds  called  barnacles,  wbich 
nature  produces  in  a  wonderful  manner,  out  of  her  ordinary 
course.  They  resemble  the  marsh- geese,  but  are  smaller. 
Being  at  first  gummy  excrescences  from  pine-beams  floating 
on  the  waters,  and  then  enclosed  in  shells  to  secure  their 
free  growth,  they  hang  by  their  beaks,  like  seaweeds  attached 
to  the  timber.  Being  in  process  of  time  well  covered  with 
feathers,  they  either  fall  into  the  water  or  take  their  flight 
in  the  free  air,  their  nourishment  and  growth  being  supplied, 
while  they  are  bred  in  this  very  unaccountable  and  curious 
manner,  from  the  juices  of  the  wood  in  the  sea-water.  I 
have  often  seen  with  my  own  eyes  more  than  a  thousand 
minute  embryos  of  birds  of  this  species  on  the  seashore, 
hanging  from  one  piece  of  timber,  covered  with  shells,  and 
already  formed.  'No  eggs  are  laid  by  these  birds  after  copu- 
lation, as  is  the  case  with  birds  in  general ;  the  hen  never 
sits  on  eggs  in  order  to  hatch  them  ;  in  no  corner  of  the 
world  are  they  seen  either  to  pair,  or  build  nests.  Hence, 
in  some  parts  of  Ireland,  bishops  and  men  of  religion  make 
no  scruple  of  eating  these  birds  on  fasting  days,  as  not 
being  flesh,  because  they  are  not  born  of  flesh.  But  these  men 
are  curiously  drawn  into  error.  For,  if  any  one  had  eaten 
part  of  the  thigh  of  our  first  parent,  which  was  really  flesh, 
although  not  born  of  flesh,  I  should  think  him  not  guiltless 
of  having  eaten  flesh. ^  Eepent,  O  unhappy  Jew,  recollect, 
though  late,  that  man  was  first  generated  from  clay  without 
being  procreated  by  male  and  female  ;  nor  will  your  venera- 
tion for  the  law  allow  you  to  deny  that.  In  the  second  place, 
woman  was  generated  of  the  man,  without  the  intervention 
of  the  other  sex.  The  third  mode  of  generation  only  by  male 
and  female,  as  it  is  the  ordinary  one,  obstinate  as  you  are,  yon 
admit  and  approve.  But  the  fourth,  from  which  alone  came 
salvation,  namely,  birth  from  a  woman,  without  union  with 

^  Another  curious  case  of  casuistry,  arising  out  of  what  was  an  im- 
portant question  in  those  days,  the  distinction  between  fish  and  flesh, 
with  reference  to  the  diet  allowed  on  days  of  abstinence,  will  be  found! 
in  Chap.  XXI.  following. 


BifiDS    OP   TWOFOLD    SPECIES.  37 

a  man,  you  utterly  reject  witli  perverse  obstinacy,  to  your 
own  perdition.  Blush,  0  wretched  man,  blush !  At  least, 
recur  to  nature,  which,  in  confirmation  of  the  faith  for  our 
best  teaching,  continually  produces  and  gives  birth  to  new 
animals,  without  union  of  male  and  female.  The  first  crea- 
ture was  begotten  of  clay ;  this  last  is  engendered  of  wood. 
The  one,  proceeding  from  the  God  of  nature  for  once  only, 
was  a  stupendous  miracle ;  the  other,  though  not  less  ad- 
mirable, is  less  to  be  wondered  at,  because  imitative  nature 
often  performs  it.  But  human  nature  is  so  constituted, 
that  it  holds  nothing  to  be  precious  and  admirable  but 
what  is  uncommon  and  of  rare  occurrence.  The  rising  and 
setting  of  the  sun,  than  which  there  is  nothing  in  the  world 
more  beautiful,  nothing  more  fit  to  excite  our  wonder,  we  pass 
by  without  any  admiration,  because  they  are  daily  presented 
to  our  eyes ;  while  an  eclipse  of  the  sun  fills  the  whole 
world  with  astonishment,  because  it  rarely  occurs.'  The 
procreation  of  bees  from  the  honeycomb,  by  some  mys- 
terious inspiration  of  the  breath  of  life,  appears  to  be 
a  fact  of  the  same  kind  [as  the  origin  of  barnacles]. 

CHAPTEE  XII. 

OP   BIRDS    OP   TWOFOLD    SPECIES    AITD   MIXED    BEEED. 

There  are  also  many  birds  here  of  a  twofold  nature, 
which  are  called  ospreys,  in  size  less  than  eagles,  and  larger 
than  hawks.  By  an  extraordinary  contrivance  of  sportive 
nature,  one  of  their  feet  spreads  open,  armed  with  talons 
and  adapted  for  taking  their  prey ;  the  other  is  close,  harm- 
less, and  only  fit  for  swimming.  It  is  wonderful  how  these 
birds — and  I  have  often  witnessed  it  myself — hover  in  the 
air  over  the  waves  supported  by  their  wings,  remaining  still, 
that  they  may  command  a  better  view  of  the  depths  below  ; 
and  when,  with  a  penetrating  glance,  they  discover  through 
the  great  space  of  turbulent  air  and  water  small  fishes 
lurking  in  the  sand  beneath  the  waves,  they  pounce  upon 
them  from  on  high  with  headlong  speed,  and  diving  and 
coming  to  the  surface,  use  their  web-foot  in  swimming, 
while  with  the   other   armed  with  talons   they  seize  and 

'  A  truly  just  and  philosophical  remark  ;  a  grain  of  wheat  which  we 
maj  well  winnow  from  the  chaflf  of  our  author's  absurditicb. 


38  THE  TOPOGEAPfiT   OP  lEEIAItD. 

carry  off  their  prey.  In  like  manner,  the  old  enemy  of 
mankind  fixes  his  keen  eyes  on  us,  however  we  may  try 
to  conceal  ourselves  in  the  troublesome  waves  of  thia 
present  world  ;  and  ingratiating  himself  with  us  by  tempo- 
ral prosperity,  which  may  be  compared  to  the  peaceable 
foot,  the  cruel  spoiler  then  puts  forth  his  ravenous  claws  to 
clutch  miserable  souls,  and  drag  them  to  perdition. 

It  must  be  remarked  that,  in  both  kinds  of  birds,  some 
are  found  which  much  resemble  the  other ;  but  they  are 
mongrels,  and  not  true  to  their  kind,  differing  very  much 
in  some  things,  though  they  possess  the  common  nature  of 
birds.  But  the  careful  observer  will  discriminate  these  dif- 
ferences in  animals  having  a  general  resemblance,  as  well 
as  certain  resemblances  in  those  which  differ. 

CHAPTEE  Xin. 

OP   MAETINETS   AKD    THEIE   ITATUKES. 

Theee  are  also  found  in  this  country  the  small  birds  called 
martinets,^  which  are  less  than  the  blackbird,  and  here,  as 
elsewhere,  rare,  frequenting  the  rivers.  They  are  short, 
like  quails,  and  dive  in  the  water  after  the  small  fish  on 
which  they  feed ;  and  though  in  other  respects  they  retain 
their  general  character,  their  colour  varies.  For  degene- 
rating here,  they  have  the  belly  white  with  a  dark-coloured 
back,  while  in  other  countries  the  belly  is  red,  with  red 
beak  and  feet.  Like  parrots  and  peacocks,  the  back  and 
wings  are  distinguished  by  their  brilliant  shade  of  green, 
which  is  very  lustrous  and  beautiful.  It  is  remarkable  in 
these  little  birds  that,  if  they  are  preserved  in  a  dry  place, 
when  dead,  they  never  decay  ;  and  if  they  are  put  among 
clothes  and  other  articles,  they  preserve  them  from  the 
moth  and  give  them  a  pleasant  odour.  What  is  still 
more  wonderful,  if,  when  dead,  they  are  hung  up  by  their 
beaks  in  a  dry  situation,  they  change  their  plumage  every 
year,  as  if  they  were  restored  to  life,  as  though  the  vital 
spark  still  survived  and  vegetated  through  some  mysterious 
remains  of  its  energy. 

Thus  holy  men,  who  are  dead  to  the  world,  and,  as  it 
were,  laid  up  in  a  dry  place,  and  inflamed  with  the  ardour 

*  The  martinet  (martineta)  was  the  kingfisher.  It  is  still  called  In 
French  the  martinet-pecheur. 


KliDS  WHICH  DISAPPEAR  DTTEING  WINTER.  39 

of  charity,  purify  and  perfect  themselves  and  those  who  are 
united  to  them  from  being  vitiated  by  the  corruption  of 
sin,  and  render  them  conspicuous  by  the  good  odour  of 
their  virtues.  And  while  they  hang  from  above  by  the 
most  intimate  union  of  soul,  casting  off  the  old  garment  of 
the  flesh,  and  clothed  in  new  virtues,  they  are  changed  and 
renewed  for  the  better  from  time  to  time,  putting  off  the 
old  man,  and  putting  on  the  new.  For  that  is  the  highest 
pitch  of  excellence,  when  the  former  acts  are  surpassed  by 
being  followed  by  those  which  are  better, 

CHAPTEE  Xiy, 

OF    SWANS   AND    STORKS    AND    THEIR   NATURES. 

Swans  abound  in  the  northern  part  of  Ireland ;  but  storks 
are  very  rare  throughout  the  island,  and  their  colour  is 
black.  It  is  remarkable  in  swans  that  they  teach  us  not  to 
grieve  at  the  fate  of  death  ;  for  in  their  last  moments, 
making  a  virtue  of  necessity,  they  exhibit  by  their  funeral 
Bongs  contempt  for  the  loss  of  life.  So  men,  who  are  clothed 
in  white  by  the  merits  of  their  virtues,  depart  joyfully  from 
the  troubles  of  the  present  world,  and  thirsting  for  God, 
the  only  fountain  of  life,  desire  to  be  dissolved,  freed  from 
this  body  of  death,  and  to  be  with  Christ. 

It  is  remarkable  in  storks  that  they  desert  places  where 
the  waters  are  warm,  and  frequent  those  where  they  are 
cold.  For  throughout  the  winter  they  harbour  about  the 
beds  of  streams,  but  in  the  first  opening  of  spring  change 
the  temperature,  betaking  themselves  to  a  free  current  of 
air.  So  the  saints,  who  now  sleep  in  the  dust  of  the  earth, 
during  the  wintry  season  of  this  world,  which  now  is,  when 
it  is  renovated  and  changed  into  a  better  state,  enjoying  for 
ever  a  serene  atmosphere,  will  rise  from  their  hiding-places 
at  the  first  sound  of  the  archangel's  voice,  and  being  carried 
up  to  meet  Christ  in  the  air,  shall  be  summoned  to  his 
right  hand,  and  translated  into  the  true  liberty  of  his  sons. 

CHAPTER  XV. 

OF   BIRDS   WHICH   DISAPPEAR   DURING   THE   WINTER. 

It  is  also  remarkable  in  birds  of  these  and  other  similar  spe- 
cks, which  the  rigour  of  winter  is  wont  to  ^ive  away,  that 


40  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF   lEELAJT». 

during  this  period  tbey  are  neither  living  nor  dead,  but 
vegetating,  without  the  breath  of  life  being  extinct,  they 
appear  wrapt  in  a  long  trance,  and,  remaining  without  the 
nourishment  by  which  animal  life  is  wont  to  be  sustained, 
are  yet  supported  by  some  kind  and  secret  process  of  na- 
ture, until,  roused  from  their  sleep,  they  come  back  with 
the  zephyrs  and  the  first  swallow.  In  like  manner  the 
animals  (^ed  dormice,  because  sleep  makes  them  fat  (for  the 
word  from  which  they  derive  their  name,  gliscere,  signifies  to 
grow  fat,  as  well  as  to  long  after),  sleep  all  the  winter,  and, 
after  lying  motionless  as  if  they  were  dead,  revive  in  the 
summer.  This  led  some  one,  speaking  in  the  perwn  of  thia 
little  animal,  to  say : — 

"Tota  milii  dormitur  by  ems,  et  pingttior  tllo 
Tempore  sum,  quo  me  nil  nisi  somnus  alit.** 

Those  seem  to  fall  into  a  similar  trance  whose  spirits  are 
on  some  occasions,  by  divine  permission,  wafted  to  the 
heavenly  mansions  above,  or  to  the  spectacle  of  hell  below, 
returning  at  last,  when  their  mission  is  completed,  to  their 
bodies  on  earth,  which  meanwhile  have  remained  in  an 
extraordinary  state  of  destitution,  breathing  without  a  spi- 
rit, and  living  without  life,  and  thus  neither  entirely  dead 
or  alive. 

CHAPTEE  XVI. 

OF  GBASSHOPPEES  WHICH  SING  THE  BETTEE  WHEIIT  THEIB 
HEADS  AEE  CUT  OFF,  AND  EEVIVE  SPONTANEOtTSLT  AFTEB 
BEING   LONG   DEAD. 

In  the  districts  of  Apulia  and  Calabria  there  are  grass- 
hoppers with  wings,  which  spring  from  place  to  place  not 
by  any  efibrt  of  their  legs,  but  by  the  use  of  their  wing», 
and  have  orifices  under  their  throats  by  which  they  utter 
tuneful  sounds.  It  is  also  reported  that  they  sing  sweetest 
when  their  heads  are  cut  off,  and  when  they  are  dead  better 
than  when  they  are  alive.  Hence  the  shepherds  in  that 
country  have  a  custom  of  depriving  them  of  their  head», 
that  at  least  they  may  extract  sweetness  from  them  even  by 
their  death.  For  the  residue  of  the  life-giving  spirit,  until 
it  has  escaped  by  these  apertures  from  the  dying  b€>dy,  ^-^es 
forth  wonderful  harmony.    These  grasshoppers,  also,  being 


irnE   YAEIOUS    KIN-DS    OS    CEOWS    TOUIs^D    HERE.  41 

congealed  by  tlie  frost  in  the  beginning  of  winter,  shrive] 
up,  and  many  of  them  putrify.  But  when  warm  weather 
returns  in  spring,  the  breath  of  life  returns  to  them,  and 
they  revivify  and  recover  their  strength.  That  the  dead 
sing  better  than  the  living  may  be  exemplified  in  the  case 
of  the  Christian  martyrs,  who,  having  been  decapitated  for 
Christ's  sake,  preach,  when  dead,  better  than  they  did  when 
alive,  so  that  the  church  is  more  edified  by  their  death  than 
by  their  life.  In  what  follows  concerning  resuscitation  and 
revival,  we  have  a  sign  of  our  own  resurrection.  For  thus 
the  Creator,  for  our  instruction  and  confirmation  in  the  truth, 
corroborates  the  less  probable  articles  of  the  received  faith 
by  familiar  examples  in  the  natural  world.  What  else  can 
be  the  meaning  of  that  prodigious  increase  from  their  dust 
of  the  little  worms  which  produce  silk  ?  "What  the  astonish- 
ing reproduction  of  the  phoenix  from  ita  own  ashes  ? 

CHAPTER  XYH. 

OF    THE   VAEIOIJS   KIIfDS    OE    CEOWS    EOUND    HEEE,   AND   OP 
THETE   TfATUEES. 

Also  there  are  no  black  crows  in  this  country,  or  they  are 
very  rare ;  they  are  all  parti-coloured.  These  birds  carry 
up  small  shell-fish  into  the  air,  and  let  them  fall  on  the  rocks 
by  the  sea  shore,  that,  not  being  able  to  crush  the  shells 
with  their  beaks,  they  may  be  fractured  by  collision  with 
whe  stones,  after  falling  from  a  great  height.  Thus  the  old 
nemy,  with  malicious  guile,  after  raising  to  the  highest 
pitch  of  honour  those  whom  he  was  unable  to  pervert  when 
m  a  humble  condition,  boldly  assails  them,  in  order  that, 
neglecting  the  duties  of  their  station,  or  wavering,  from 
being  puffed  up  with  arrogance,  the  higher  they  have  been 
lifted  up  the  greater  may  be  their  fall  into  the  depths  of 
sin,  and  the  more  severely  he  may  bruise  and  crush  them. 

It  is  a  remarkable  fact  respecting  these  birds,  that  although 
in  other  things  they  are  the  most  cunning  of  all  fowls,  their 
natural  instinct  fails  them  in  choosing  suitable  situations 
for  their  nests,  in  which  other  birds,  however  silly,  manifest 
great  ingenuity.  Tor  they  build  their  nests  in  a  public 
road,  or  any  other  frequented  place,  or  on  a  fallen  tree,  or  a 
Itone ;  never  thinking  of  the  winds,  or  apprehensive  ol 


42  THE   TOPOaEAPHT   OF    11RELANB. 

the  access  of  snakes  or  men.  Thus,  however  a  man  may 
be  distinguished  by  vigour  of  genius  and  the  endowmentt 
of  wisdom,  if  he  abandons  himself  to  licentiousness,  and  is 
ensnared  by  lust,  he  pays  little  regard  to  temperance  and 
modesty.  This  was  exemplified  in  David  and  Solomon,  one 
of  whom  incurred  the  guilt  of  murder,  and  the  other  of 
apostacy,  through  their  violent  passion  for  women. 

CHAPTEE  XYIII. 

OF  THE  CEOEEI^  WHICH  ABE    HEEE    WHITE,  AND  OF  OTHEB 
SPECIES    OF    BIRDS. 

As  in  Crete  all  the  merles  are  white,  so  the  Irish  croerice^ 
are  also  white.  It  is  the  instinct  of  these  birds  to  impale 
beetles  on  a  thorn,  so  that  the  thorn  is  impregnated  by 
venom.  How  remarkable  is  it  that  the  mischief  which 
we  find  in  neither  of  the  three  by  itself,  is  efiected  through 
the  union  of  the  three.  Thus  the  Creator,  by  a  won- 
derful union  of  things  contrary,  joins  the  spirit  to  the  flesh, 
and  so  the  evil  of  sin  is  forthwith  contracted,  although  it  is 
to  be  found  in  neither  of  the  three  of  itself. 

Ireland  produces  no  falcons  but  those  of  noble  breed. 
The  ignoble  species,  vulgarly  called  layner,-  are  not  found 
here.  The  gerfalcons,  which  are  bred  in  the  Northern  and 
Arctic  regions,  and  supplied  from  thence,  are  not  produced 
in  this  country ;  nor  are  there  partridges  and  pheasants. 
There  are  no  magpies  or  nightingales;  indeed,  of  birds 
in  general,  and  especially  of  the  smaller  species,  fewer  are 

*  This  word,  as  far  as  I  know,  has  not  been  found  elsewhere,  and 
it  is  uncertain  to  what  bird  it  is  intended  to  apply.  As  it  fed  upon 
beetles,  it  must  have  been  busiest  towards  nightfall.  Ducange  has  the 
word  croerola,  as  occurring  in  the  Alemanic  Laws,  and  conjectured  to 
be  the  French  crecerelle,  a  kestrel.  But  this  can  hardly  be  the  mean- 
ing here. 

2  In  old  books  of  falconry,  we  find  hawks  formerly  appropriated  in 
a  sort  of  fanciful  order,  according  to  the  gradations  of  rank,  and 
among  them  the  "  layner  and  layneret "  were  assigned  to  an  esquire. 
Thus,  also,  the  gerfalcon  was  counted  a  royal  bird,  the  peregrine  falcon 
was  appropriated  to  an  earl  or  lord,  the  "  sakyr  and  sakyret "  to  a 
knight,  a  lease  of  merlins  to  a  lady,  a  hoby  to  a  gentleman  "of  the  first 
heag/'  a  goss-hawk  to  a  yeoman,  a  sparrow-hawk  to  a  priest,  and  a 
kestrel  to  a  knave  (in  the  old  sense  of  the  word).  See  Latham's  Birds, 
rol.  i.  p.  109.  As  to  the  gerfalcon,  see  the  note  to  e.  13,  Distinction  11« 
ia  this  Topography. 


WILt)   ANIMALS,   AND   THEIH  NATURES.  43 

found  here  tlian  in  other  countries.  This  did  not  escape 
the  notice  of  Orosius,  when  speaking  of  Ireland,  for  he 
observes,  "  No  kind  of  snake  is  found  there ;  birds  are 
scarce  ;  and  there  are  no  bees."  In  the  two  first  instances 
his  account  is  correct,  in  the  third  he  is  mistaken. 

We  may  add  to  the  list  of  birds  a  smaller  species  of 
white  geese,  also  called  gantes  (wild  geese),  which  are  wont 
to  arrive  in  great  flocks,  with  a  prodigious  cackling.  But 
they  seldom  migrate  to  these  remote  regions,  and  when  they 
do,  in  very  small  numbers.  The  larger  species,  called  by 
the  vulgar  by  sice,  and  also  grisice,  come  over  in  the  depth  of 
winter  in  vast  flocks,  when  the  north  wind  blows,  and  after 
the  frosts  are  past,  return  with  the  south  wind  at  the  season 
for  building  their  nests. 

CHAPTEE  XIX. 

OF  WILD  ANIMALS,  AND  THEIR  NATURES. 

This  island  contains  nearly  all  the  species  of  wild  animals 
which  are  bred  in  the  western  countries.  It  produces 
stags  so  fat  that  they  lose  their  speed,  and  the  more  slender 
they  are  in  shape,  the  more  nobly  they  carry  their  heads 
and  branching  antlers.^  In  no  part  of  the  world  are  such 
vast  herds  of  boars  and  wild  pigs  to  be  found ;  but  they 
are  a  small,  ill-shaped,  and  cowardly  breed,  no  less  degene- 
rate in  boldness  and  ferocity  than  in  their  growth  and 
shape.  There  are  a  great  number  of  hares,  but  they  are  a 
small  breed,  much  resembling  rabbits  both  in  size  and  the 
softness  of  their  fur.  In  short,  it  will  be  found  that  the 
bodies  of  all  animals,  wild  beasts,  and  birds,  each  in  its 
kind,  are  smaller  here  than  in  other  countries ;  while  the 
men  alone  retain  their  full  dimensions.     It  is  remarkable  in 

1  The  elk,  the  largest  of  the  genus  Cervus,  of  which  there  are  any 
traces  in  Europe,  and  akin  to  the  moose-deer  of  America,  must  have 
been  extinct  in  Ireland  long  before  the  age  of  Giraldus,  or  he  could 
hardly  have  failed  to  notice  it.  Still,  from  its  remains  being  discovered 
in  considerable  numbers  in  the  Irish  bogs,  and  often  in  groups,  it 
would  appear  that  the  elk  co-existed  in  Ireland  with  the  present  state 
of  organized  nature.  The  species  seems  to  have  died  off  from  some 
change  of  the  climate,  the  destruction  of  the  forests,  or  the  loss  of  ita 
natural  food,  just  as  attempts  to  acclimatize  in  Scotland  the  reindeer, 
kindred  species,  have  failed  from  similar  causes 


4i4i  THE   TOPOGEAPHT   OP   ICELAND. 

these  hares,  that,  contrary  to  the  usual  instincts  of  that  anL 
mal,  when  found  by  the  dogs,  they  keep  to  cover  like  foxes, 
running  in  the  woods  instead  of  in  the  open  country,  and 
never  taking  to  the  plains  and  beaten  paths,  unless  they  are 
driven  to  it.  This  difference  in  their  habits  is,  I  think, 
caused  by  the  rankness  of  the  herbage  in  the  plains,  check- 
ing their  speed.  Martins  are  very  plentiful  in  the  woods  ; 
in  hunting  which  the  day  is  prolonged  through  the 
night  by  means  of  fires.  For  night  coming  on,  a  fire  is 
lighted  under  the  tree  in  which  the  hunted  animal  has  taken 
refuge  from  the  dogs,  and  being  kept  burning  all  night,  the 
martin  eyeing  its  brightness  from  the  boughs  above,  with- 
out quitting  its  post,  either  is  so  fascinated  by  it,  or,  rather, 
so  much  afraid  of  it,  that  when  morning  comes  the  hunters 
find  him  on  the  same  spot. 

CHAPTER  XX. 

OP   THE   BADGES  AND   ITS   NATT7EE. 

Theee  is  also  here  the  badger  or  melot,  an  unclean  animal, 
which  bites  sharply,  frequenting  the  mountains  and  rocks. 
It  makes  holes  under  ground  for  its  refuge  and  protection, 
scratching  and  digging  them  out  with  its  feet.  Some  of 
them,  whose  natural  instinct  it  is  to  serve  the  rest,  have  been, 
seen,  to  the  great  admiration  of  the  observers,  lying  on 
their  backs  with  the  earth  dug  out  heaped  on  their  bellies, 
and  held  together  by  their  four  claws,  while  others  dragged 
them  backward  by  a  stick  held  in  their  mouth,  fastening 
their  teeth  in  which,  they  drew  them  out  of  the  hole,  with 
their  burthens. 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

OP   THE    beater    AlfD    ITS   NATUEE. 

The  beavers,  also,  have  a  similar  practice,  through  the  kind 
provision  of  nature.  When  they  are  building  their  fortress 
in  the  bed  of  a  river,  they  make  servants  of  some  of  their 
own  species  and  use  them  as  vehicles  in  a  very  extraordi- 
nary manner,  for  collecting  and  conveying  oak  boughs  from 
the  woods  to  the  water.  In  both  these  kinds  of  animals, 
some  of  these  servants  are  to  be  found  remarkable  both  for 
their  degeneracy  and  uncouth  shape,  and  for  the  manner  in 
which  the  shaggy  fur  on  their  backs  has  been  rubbed  and 


THE   BE  AYE  E  AND   ITS   JTATUEE.  46 

worn  off.  Ireland  produces  badgers,  but  not  beavers.  They 
are,  however,  found  in  Wales,  but  only  in  the  river  Teivy, 
near  Cardigan  (Kairdygan)  ;  and  likewise  in  Scotland,  but 
very  rarely  there  also.^ 

It  must  be  noted  that  beavers  have  broad  tails,  but  they 
are  not  long  ;  and  being  spread  out  like  a  man's  hand,  they 
supply  the  place  of  oars  when  they  are  swimming.  Though 
they  have  a  thick  coat  of  fur  over  all  the  rest  of  their 
bodies,  their  tails  are  quite  bare  and  smooth,  and  slip- 
pery like  seals.  Hence  in  G-ermany  and  the  northern  re- 
gions, where  beavers  are  plentiful,  even  the  great,  and  men 
of  religion,  eat  the  tails  during  fasting  seasons  instead  of 
fish,  of  the  nature  of  which  they  partake  both  in  taste  and 
colour.  It  would  appear,  however,  that  what  is  true  of  the 
whole,  as  a  whole,  is  true  of  a  part,  considered  as  a  part ; 
nor  is  it  usual  that  a  part  differs  essentially  from  the 
whole.^ 

I  propose  to  describe  more  fully  in  another  work  the 
habits  and  character  of  beavers,^  how  and  with  what  skill 
they  construct  their  fortresses  in  the  middle  of  the  rivers, 
and  how,  with  such  admirable  instinct  for  an  animal,  when 
they  are  pursued  by  their  enemies,  they  redeem  the  whole 
by  the  sacrifice  of  a  part.*  This  I  shall  do  when  I  come  to 
treat  of  the  geography  and  natural  history  of  Wales  and 
Scotland,  and  of  the  origin  and  characteristics  of  the  two 

^  It  would  appear  from  this  passage  that  the  beaver,  a  native  of  the 
northern  parts  of  Europe  and  Asia,  was  become  extinct  in  Ireland  be- 
fore the  time  of  Griraldus,  and  had  then  become  very  rare  in  Wales, 
though  still  found  on  the  river  Tivy  in  Cardiganshire.  Beavers  still 
exist  in  Norway,  where  we  have  seen  their  dykes  in  the  province  of 
Telemarken ;  but  they  are  becoming  rare  in  that  country  also,  and  a 
law  was  passed  not  long  since,  prohibiting  their  being  killed  for  a  term 
of  seven  years,  in  order  to  preserve  the  breed.  Even  in  the  solitudes 
of  North  America,  when,  the  beaver  remained  unmolested  for  ages 
after  the  value  of  its  furs  had  caused  it  to  be  almost  exterminated  in 
other  countries,  it  is  fast  disappearing  before  the  persevermg  enter- 
prise and  cupidity  of  the  trapper. 

*  An  amusing  specimen  of  the  casuistry  of  ecclesiastics,  who 
sought  to  vary  their  Lenten  diet,  and  as  curious  an  application  of  our 
author's  shrewd  logic  to  the  case.  '  Giraldus  mentions  the 
beaver  again  in  Chapter  III.  of  his  Itinerary  of  Wales. 

*  The  following  scholium  is  printed  in  the  margin  of  the  Frankfort 
edition  of  Giraldus  :  "  that  is,  by  gnawing  off,  or  rather  cutting  ol^ 
their  own  testicles." 


4B  THE  TOPOQEAPHT  OF  IRELAKD. 

nations.^  But  we  shall  find  a  place  for  this  elsewhere,  and 
for  another  purpose,  under  Grod's  guidance,  if  life  be  spared. 
There  are  some  other  wild  animals  which  are  not  found 
in  Ireland,  such  as  roebucks,  goats,  hedgehogs,  hermins,  and 
polecats  (putacii), 

CHAPTEE  XXII. 

OF   WEASELS    AKI>    THEIE  NATTTBE. 

There  are  here  a  vast  number  of  weasels,  but  thej  are  very 
small,  and  are  of  a  reddish  colour.  This  little  animal  has 
more  spirit  than  body,  and  its  courage  supplying  the  defi- 
ciency of  its  strength,  with  a  great  heart  actuating  a  slender 
frame,  it  is  vindictive  and  relentless  in  its  wrath,  however 
it  may  hide  it  for  a  time.  When  injured  it  dissembles  its 
resentment  and  defers  its  revenge ;  it  is  the  tyrant  of  the 
larger  sorts  of  mice,  and  commits  great  ravages  by  gnawing 
clothes.  It  preys  also  on  hares  and  rabbits,  nor  does  it 
shrink  from  engaging  in  single  combat  with  the  snake,  in 
which  conflict,  often  pretending  to  run  away,  it  betakes 
itself  to  some  mound  of  earth  which  it  has  noted  before, 
and  having  a  hole  through  the  middle  as  well  as  one  per- 
forated  above  in  the  form  of  a  cross.  The  snake  gliding 
after  it,  and  being  entangled  in  the  narrow  passage  without 
the  power  of  wriggling  out,  the  weasel  darts  upon  it  from 
the  upper  orifice  with  its  natural  agility,  and  seizes  it 
with  its  teeth,  without  suffering  any  injury.  Thus,  by 
an  innate  impulse  and  ingenuity,  not  to  call  it  a  won- 
derful instinct,  the  weasel,  avoiding  its  terrible  enemy's 
venomous  head,  triumphs  over  it  more  by  art  than  by 
prowess. 

The  weasel  also,  when  its  young  are  dying  from  any  hurt, 
recovers  and  restores  them  to  life  by  the  use  of  a  yellow 
flower.  We  are  told  by  persons  who  have  witnessed  the 
fact,  having  put  the  whelp  to  death  to  make  the  experi 
ment,  that  the  weasel  brought  the  flower  in  its  mouth 
and  first  applied  it  to  the  wound,  and  then  to  the  mouth 

'  It  appears  from  this  to  have  been  the  intention  of  Griraldus  Cam 
brensis  to  write  similar  topographies  of  Wales  and  Scotland.  The  Cam 
briee  Description  of  ■which  a  translation  is  given  in  the  present  volume 
may,  perhaps,  be  considered  as  the  fulfilment  of  one  part  of  this  design, 
but  no  description  of  Scotland  by  our  writer  is  at  present  known  to 


REPTILES.  47 

nostrils,  and  other  orifices  of  the  little  animal,  that  it  might 
inhale  the  odour,  by  which,  through  the  efficacious  touch 
of  the  plant,  breath  was  restored,  though  life  seemed  ex- 
tinct, some  slight  and  imperceptible  vestiges  of  it  only  having 
remained. 

Moreover,  as  death  destroys  every  thing  else  by  its  mere 
glance,  such  is  the  weasel  to  the  basilisk.  In  like  manner, 
the  hyaena  subdues  the  lordly  lion  with  the  smallest  drop  of 
its  urine.  The  mouse,  too,  is  formidable  to  the  elephant, 
the  largest  of  animals.  Thus,  by  the  wise  disposition  of 
Providence,  the  greater  are  sometimes  conquered  by  the 
less,  that  at  least  we  may  learn  from  them  that  there  is 
nothing  on  earth  so  mighty  or  so  favoured,  as  to  enjoy  entire 
felicity.  What  is  there  under  heaven  loftier  than  man  ? 
"What  more  insignificant  than  an  adder,  a  spider,  or  a  gnat  ? 
The  Creator  has  introduced  among  his  creatures  nothing 
without  reason,  no  evil  without  a  remedy. 

There  are  very  few  or  no  moles  in  Ireland,  either  because 
they  have  never  existed,  or  on  account  of  the  extreme  humi- 
dity of  the  soil.  As  the  sun  blinds  the  mole,  so  a  single 
day  sees  the  birth  and  death  of  the  grasshopper,  on  which 
account  some  one  has  thus  apostrophized  the  little  insect : 
"Mors  et  yita  dies  una  tibi  est." 

The  larger  species  of  mouse  is  found  here  in  great  num- 
bers, and  the  smaller  kind  swarm  to  such  an  amazing  de- 
gree that  they  consume  more  enormous  quantities  of  grain 
than  anywhere  else,  and  are  very  destructive  to  clothes, 
which  they  gnaw  and  tear,  however  carefully  they  may  be 
locked  up  in  chests.  Bede  describes  the  island  as  possessing 
only  two  sorts  of  ravenous  animals.^  To  these  I  have  added 
this  third,  which  is  most  destructive. 

CHAPTEE  XXIII. 

OF  REPTILES,  AND  THOSE  WHICH  AEE  NOT  EOUND  IN  THE 
ISLAND  ;  AND  THAT  THEEE  AEE  NO  YENOMOUS  CEEA- 
TUEE8,  FOE  THOSE  THAT  AEE  BEOUGHT  OTEE  IMMEDI- 
ATELY DIE,  AND  THEIE  POISON  LOSES  ITS  VENOM  ;  AND 
or  THE  DUST  OF  THIS  LAND  AND  LEATHEEN  THONGS 
BEING  ANTIDOTES  EOE  POISON. 

Ot  aU  sorts  of  reptiles,  Ireland  possesses  those  only  which 
*  Scholium^  "namely,  -wol-'ja  and  foxes."      Giraldus  introduce»  • 


4B  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OF  lEELAND. 

are  harmless,  and  does  not  produce  any  that  are  venomoua.' 
There  are  neither  snakes  nor  adders,  toads  nor  frogs,  tortoises 
nor  scorpions,  nor  dragons.  It  produces,  however,  spiders, 
leeches,  and  lizards ;  but  they  are  quite  harmless.  Hence 
it  may  be  said,  or  even  written,  pleasantly,  as  well  as  with 
historical  truth : — "  In  France  and  Italy  the  frogs  fill  the 
air  with  their  croakings  ;  in  Britain  they  are  mute  :  in  Ire- 
land there  are  none."  Some  indeed  conjecture,  with  what 
seems  a  flattering  fiction,  that  St.  Patrick  and  the  other 
saints  of  that  country  cleared  the  island  of  all  pestiferous 
animals  ;  but  history  asserts,  with  more  probability,  that 
from  the  earliest  ages,  and  long  before  it  was  favoured  with 
the  light  of  revealed  truth,  this  was  one  of  the  things  which 
never  existed  here,  from  some  natural  deficiency  in  the  pro- 
duce of  the  island. 

Nor  does  it  appear  to  me  much  to  be  wondered  at  that 
the  country  does  not  naturally  produce  these  reptiles,  no 
more  than  some  kinds  of  fishes,  birds,  and  wild  animals  which 
are  not  found  there.  But  it  does  appear  very  wonderful 
that,  when  any  thing  venomous  is  brought  there  from  other 
lands,  it  never  could  exist  in  Ireland.  For  we  read  in  the 
ancient  books  of  the  saints  of  that  country,  that  sometimes, 
for  the  sake  of  experiment,  serpents  have  been  shipped  over 
in  brazen  vessels,  but  were  found  lifeless  and  dead  as  soon 
as  the  middle  of  the  Irish  sea  was  crossed.  Poison  also 
similarly  conveyed  was  found  to  lose  its  venom,  when  mid- 
way on  the  waters,  disinfected  by  a  purer  air.    Bede,  in 

wolf  in  a  curious  legend,  Distinction  II.  c.  19,  and  in  c.  26 ;  we  find  that 
wolves  were  not  totally  extirpated  from  the  neighbourhood  of  Glen- 
dalough  until  1710. 

^  It  is  difficult  to  comprehend  how  the  assertion,  that  no  venomous 
animals  existed  in  Ireland,  could  have  been  so  generally  current  without 
some  basis  of  truth ;  particularly  as  Griraldus,  who  was  three  years  in 
the  island,  and  appears  to  have  been  generally  well  informed  on  its 
zoology,  not  only  strips  the  statement  of  its  fabulous  element,  calling 
that  "  a  flattering  fiction,"  but  affirms  it  on  his  own  authority  as  a  fact 
in  natural  history,  offering  the  very  plausible  solution,  that  species  of 
animals  existing  in  some  countries  are  not  produced  in  others.  The 
accoimt  he  gives,  in  the  next  chapter,  of  the  great  surprise  publicly  mani- 
fested, when  a  frog  or  toad  was  found  in  the  neighbom-hood  of  Water- 
ford,  and  brought  to  court,  is  so  circumstantial,  that  the  fact  of  its  dii« 
covery  being  considered  an  extraordinary  occurrence  seems  hardly  tc 
h?  doubted. 


REPTILES.  49 

gpeafeing  of  Ireland,  writes  on  this  subject  as  follows : — "  No 
reptile  is  found  there  ;  no  serpent  can  live  there ;  for,  though 
often  carried  thither  out  of  Britain,  as  soon  as  the  ship 
draws  near  the  land,  and  the  scent  of  the  air  from  off  the 
shore  reaches  them,  they  die.  On  the  contrary,  almost  all 
things  produced  in  the  island  have  virtues  against  poison.* 

I  have  also  heard  it  said  by  merchants,  who  pursued  their 
adventures  in  the  ocean,  that  on  some  occasions,  having  un- 
loaded their  ships  in  an  Irish  port,  they  found  toads  in  the 
bottom  of  the  hold ;  and  having  thrown  them  on  shore  in  a 
living  state,  they  immediately  turned  on  their  backs,  and 
bursting  their  bellies,  died,  to  the  astonishment  of  many 
who  witnessed  it.  It  appears,  therefore,  that  either  through 
the  merits  of  the  saints,  as  report  goes  throughout  the 
world,  or  some  strange  and  unheard  of,  but  most  kindly, 
influence  of  the  air,  or  some  occult  property  of  the  soil  itself 
inimical  to  poison,  no  venomous  animal  can  exist  here,  and 
every  kind  of  poison  introduced  from  other  countries  forth- 
with loses  its  malignant  effect. 

Indeed  the  soil  of  Ireland  is  so  hostile  to  poison,  that, 
if  gardens  or  any  other  spots  in  foreign  countries  are 
sprinkled  with  its  dust,  all  venomous  reptiles  are  imme- 
diately driven  far  away. 

Thongs  also,  which  are  the  real  produce  of  the  island, 
and  made  of  the  skins  of  animals  born  there,  being  grated 
in  waters  which  is  drunk,  the  potion  is  an  efficacious  remedy 
against  the  bites  of  toads  and  serpents.  I  have  seen  with  my 
own  eyes  one  of  these  thongs  drawn  tight  in  a  circle  round 
a  toad,  for  the  sake  of  the  experiment.  Coming  to  the 
thong,  and  trying  to  cross  over  it,  the  animal  fell  backwards 
as  if  it  were  stunned.  It  then  tried  the  opposite  side  of  the 
circle,  but  meeting  with  the  thong  all  round,  it  shrunk  from 
it,  as  if  it  were  pestiferous.  At  last,  digging  a  hole  in  the 
mud  with  its  feet  in  the  centre  of  the  circle,  it  crept  into 
it  in  the  presence  of  many  persons. 

Nay  more,  according  to  Bede's  statement,  almost  all 
things  produced  in  the  island  have  virtues  against  poison. 
He  gives  an  instance  which  he  witnessed  himself.  Some 
persons  having  been  bitten  by  serpents,  water  in  which  the 
Bcrapings  of  the  leaves  of  books  brought  from  Ireland  had 
1  Eccles.  Hist.  b.  i.  c.  1. 

E 


50  THE    TOPOGRAPHY    OF    lllELAXD. 

been  mixed  was  given  them  to  drink,  and  it  extracted  all 
the  venom  of  the  spreading  poison,  reduced  the  swelling  of 
their  bodies,  and  assuaged  the  tumor.  It  happened  also, 
within  my  time,  on  the  northern  borders  of  England,  that  a 
snake  crept  into  the  mouth  of  a  boy  while  he  was  asleep, 
and  passed  through  his  gullet  into  his  belly.  The  reptile, 
making  a  very  ill  return  to  his  host  for  the  lodgings  with 
which  it  had  been  unconsciously  supplied,  began  to  gnaw 
and  tear  the  lad's  intestines,  and  threw  him  into  such  ago- 
nies that  he  would  have  preferred  death  at  once  to  such  a 
dying  life.  After  satisfying  his  hunger,  however,  the  snake 
allowed  him  some  respite  from  his  suiferings,  but  before 
that  none  at  all.  After  the  boy  had  resorted  to  the  shrines 
of  the  saints  of  Grod  throughout  England  for  a  long  time, 
but  all  in  vain,  at  length,  better  advised,  he  crossed  over  to 
Ireland,  where,  as  soon  as  he  had  drank  of  the  salubrious 
waters  of  that  country  and  partaken  of  its  food,  his  deadly 
enemy  expired,  and  was  voided  through  his  intestines. 
Then  rejoicing  in  renovated  health,  he  returned  to  his  own 
country. 

CHAPTER  XXIY. 

OF   A   rKOG   LATELY   EGUFD    IN    lEELAT^^D. 

Neveetheless,  a  frog  was  found,  within  my  time,  in  the 
grassy  meadows  near  Waterford,  and  brought  to  court  alive 
before  Robert  Poer,  who  was  at  that  time  warden  there,  and 
many  others,  both  English  and  Irish.  And  when  numbers 
of  both  nations,  and  particularly  the  Irish,  had  beheld  it 
with  great  astonishment,  at  last  Duvenold,^  king  of  Ossory, 
a  man  of  sense  among  his  people,  and  faithful,  who  hap- 
pened to  be  present,  beating  his  head,  and  having  deep  grief 
at  heart,  spoke  thus : — "  That  reptile  is  the  bearer  of  dole- 
ful news  to  Ireland."  And  uttering  a  sort  of  prognostic,  he 
further  said,  that  it  portended,  without  doubt,  the  coming 
of  the  English,  their  threatened  conquest,  and  the  subjuga- 
tion of  his  own  nation.  No  man,  however,  will  venture  to 
suppose  that  this  reptile  was  ever  born  in  Ireland ;  for  the 

''  Duvenold,  or  Donald,  king  or  prince  of  Ossory,  is  introduced  more 
ftilly  by  Griraldus,  as  an  ally  of  the  English,  in  the  Yaticiaal  History  of 
the  Conquest  of  Ireland. 


ADVANTAGES    POSSESSED    BY    THE    ISLAIfD.  51 

mud  there  does  not,  as  in  other  countries,  contain  the  germs 
from  which  green  frogs  are  bred.  If  that  had  been  the 
case,  thej  would  have  been  found  more  frequently,  and  in 
greater  numbers,  both  before  and  after  the  time  mentioned. 
It  may  have  happened  that  some  particle  of  the  germ,  hid 
in  the  moist  soil,  had  been  exhaled  into  the  clouds  by  the 
heat  of  the  atmosphere,  and  wafted  hither  by  the  force  of 
the  winds ;  or,  perhaps,  that  the  embryo  reptile  had  been 
swept  into  the  hoUow  of  a  descending  cloud,  and,  being  by 
chance  deposited  here,  was  lodged  in  an  inhospitable  and 
ungenial  soil.  But  the  better  opinion  is,  that  the  frog  was 
brought  over  by  accident  in  a  ship  from  some  neighbouring 
port,  and  being  cast  on  shore,  succeeded  in  subsisting  and 
maintaining  life  for  -a  time,  as  it  is  not  a  venomous  animal. 

CHAPTER  XXy. 

ON    SETEEAL   ADVANTAGES    POSSESSED    BY   THE    ISLAND  ; 
AND    THE    NATTJEE    OF    THE    CLIMATE. 

Ieeland  is  the  most  temperate  of  all  countries.  Tlie 
burning  heat  of  Cancer  does  not  drive  the  inhabitants  to 
the  cool  shades,  nor  the  freezing  blasts  of  Capricorn  urgently 
invite  them  to  the  fire.  You  seldom  observe  snow  here,  and 
then  only  for  a  short  time.  Cold  weather  sometimes  comes 
with  every  wind,  no  less  from  the  east  and  west,  than  from 
the  south  or  north.  From  all  quarters  they  are  moderate,  and 
from  none  tempestuous.  The  grass  in  the  fields  is  green 
in  the  winter  as  well  as  in  the  summer ;  so  that  they  neither 
cut  hay  for  fodder,  nor  ever  build  stalls  for  the  cattle.  In 
consequence  of  the  agreeable  temperature  of  the  climate,  it 
is  warm  at  almost  all  seasons.  The  air  also  is  so  healthy,  that 
no  clouds  bring  infection,  and  there  are  no  pestilent  vapours, 
or  tainted  breezes.  The  islanders  have  little  need  of  phy- 
sicians, for  you  will  find  few  sick  persons,  except  those  who 
are  at  the  point  of  death.  There  is  little  medium  between 
perfect  health  and  the  last  end.  Strangers  here  are  troubled 
only  with  one  disorder ;  they  suff'er  from  a  single  ailment. 
At  first,  hardly  any  one  escapes  a  violent  flux  of  the  bowels, 
from  the  succulent  qualities  of  the  food  they  take.  How- 
ever, flesh  and  the  produce  of  cows  are  to  be  had  almost  at 
ail  seasons ;  but  pork  meat  is  unwholesome.     Moreover,  no 


52  THE  TOPOGEAPHX  OF  lEELAND. 

natives  of  the  island,  who  have  never  quitted  its  salubrious 
soil  and  climate,  suffer  at  any  time  from  either  of  three 
sorts  of  fever ;  the  only  one  which  attacks  them  is  the 
ague,  and  that  very  seldom. 

This  was  the  course  of  things  in  due  order  of  nature ; 
but  as  the  world  grows  older,  and  is  falling  as  it  were  into 
the  decrepitude  of  old  age,  and  draws  to  an  end,  the  nature 
of  almost  all  things  is  corrupted  and  deteriorated.  For 
now  such  floods  of  rain  inundate  the  country,  such  dense 
clouds  and  fogs  overspread  it,  that  you  will  hardly  see  three 
clear  days  together,  even  during  summer.  Notwithstanding, 
no  disturbance  of  the  atmosphere,  no  seasonableness  of  the 
weather,  either  troubles  those  who  are  in  health  and  spirits, 
or  affects  the  nerves  of  delicate  persons. 

CHAPTEE  XXVI. 

A  COMPAEISON  OF  THE  EAST  A^B  WEST;  AND  THAT  IN 
THE  EAST  ALL  THE  ELEMENTS  AE,E  PESTIFEEOUS,  AND 
OF    THE    MALIGNITY    OF    POISONS    THEEE. 

What  wealth  then  can  Eastern  lands  boast  which  is  com- 
parable to  these  advantages  ?  They  possess,  indeed,  those 
silken  fabrics,  the  produce  of  a  little  worm,  which  glow 
with  colours  of  various  dyes  ?  They  have  the  precious 
metals,  and  sparkling  gems,  and  odoriferous  trees.  But 
what  are  these,  procured  at  the  cost  of  life  and  health  ?  Are 
they  not  attended  with  the  presence  of  a  familiar  enemy, 
— the  air  the  Orientals  breathe,  and  which  constantly  sur- 
rounds them  ? 

In  those  countries  all  the  elements,  though  created  for 
the  use  of  man, threaten  wretched  mortalswith  death, under- 
mine health,  and  bring  life  to  an  end.  Plant  your  naked 
foot  on  the  earth,  death  is  at  hand  ;  incautiously  seat  your- 
self on  a  rock,  death  is  at  hand  ;  drink  pure  water  unmixed, 
or  smell  it  when  it  is  putrid,  death  is  at  hand.  Expose 
your  head  uncovered  to  the  free  air,  if  it  be  cold  it  pierces 
you  through,  if  it  be  hot  you  languish ;  death  is  at  hand. 
The  heavens  terrify  you  with  their  thunders,  and  flash  their 
lightnings  in  your  eyes.  The  blazing  sun  allows  you  no 
rest.  K  you  eat  too  much,  death  is  at  the  gate  ;  if  you 
drink  wine  undiluted  with  water,  death  is  at   the   gate. 


MALIGNITY   OP   POISOKS   IN   THE   EAST.  53 

Besides  this,  poison  threatens  on  all  hands :  the  mother-in- 
law  gives  it  to  her  step-son,  the  exasperated  wife  to  her 
husband,  the  corrupt  cook  to  his  master.  You  may  suspect 
poison  not  only  in  the  dish  and  in  the  cup,  but  in  your 
clothes,  your  seats,  your  saddles.  It  insidiously  creeps  into 
your  veins  of  itself ;  you  are  subject  to  its  insidious  attacks 
from  venomous  animals  ;  man,  of  all  noxious  creatures  the 
most  noxious,  insidiously  gives  it  to  man. 

Besides  all  the  more  common  annoyances  which  abound 
in  these  regions,  the  safety  of  man  is  threatened  and  endan- 
gered by  swift  panthers  of  various  kinds ;  by  rhinoceroses, 
allured  by  love  of  virgins;^  crocodiles,  fearful  by  their 
breath  f  hippopotami  frequenting  the  rivers  ;  lynxes,  with 
piercing  eyes  ;  and  lions  that  fear  nothing  but  the  hyaena's 
urine.  The  country  is  infested  by  asps  and  vipers,  by  dra- 
gons, and  by  the  basilisk,  whose  very  glance  is  fatal.  It  is 
infested  by  the  '  seps,'  a  little  reptile  whose  malignity  makes 
up  for  its  diminutive  size.  Its  venom  not  only  wastes  the 
flesh,  but  the  very  bones.  Of  which  the  poet  sings : 
Ossaque  consumit  cum  corpore  tabificus  seps.s 

There  is  also  the  dipsa^  a  small  species  of  snake,  whose 
venom  destroys  life  before  it  is  even  perceived,  and  is  so 
powerful  that  its  bite  occasions  death  before  any  pain  is  felt. 

It  happened,  within  my  own  memory,  that  a  man  having 
gone  on  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem,  as  is  the  custom,  from 
Britain,  one  morning,  as  he  happened  to  be  sifting  with  his 
hand  the  corn  for  his  horses,  he  had  his  finger  bitten  by  a 
Httle  reptile  which  was  lurking  in  the  corn.  Immedi- 
ately his  whole  body,  flesh  and  boue,  was  converted  into 
a  shapeless  mass  like  pitch.  His  companions,  making  in- 
quiry into  the  cause  of  his  death,  or  rather  of  his  trans- 
formation, and  the  nature  of  the  reptile,  discovered  a  very 
minute  snake  having  the  appearance  of  a  black  eel.  They 
learnt  from  the  natives  that  this  species  of  snake  is  called 
Galeia,  and  that  it  was  wont,  rarely  indeed,  but  yet  too  often, 

^  It  was  the  unicorn,  which,  according  to  the  mediaeval  fable,  could 
only  be  caught  by  the  means  of  a  pure  virgin,  to  whom,  when  exposed 
in  the  places  the  animal  haunted,  he  came  and  became  perfectly  tame, 
and  the  hunters  took  this  opportunity  of  attacking  and  killing  it 

2  It  was  the  old  notion  relating  to  crocodiles,  that  they  drew  to  them 
their  prey  by  the  eiFect  of  their  breath. 

2  Lucan's  Pharsalia,  lib.  ix.  1.  723. 


54j  the  topogeapht  of  ieeland. 

within  the  last  thirty  years  to  visit  that  country  from  the 
deserts  of  Babylonia,  and  by  its  attacks  on  man  and  beast, 
with  such  violent  and  incurable  malignity,  gave  notice  of 
its  arrival.  Of  reptiles  of  this  description,  which  abound 
in  the  East,  each  genus  has  its  own  peculiar  poison,  each 
species  its  own  power  of  destruction.  Their  colours  are  as 
varied  as  the  dolors  they  cause  ;  their  varieties  as  great 
as  the  sufferings  they  occasion.  In  such  peril  of  death, 
what  security  is  there  for  life  ?  or  rather,  among  so  many 
deaths,  what  is  life  ? 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

OP  THE  SINGULARLY  TEMPERATE  CHARACTER  OF  OUB 
CLIMATE  ;  AISTD  THAT  WE  ARE  HAPPILY  FREE  FROM 
MANY    DISADVANTAGES. 

Let  the  East  then  have  its  abundant  stores  of  venom  and 
poison,  while  we,  possessing  in  golden  moderation  whatever 
is  necessary  for  decent  use  and  the  wants  of  nature,  are  com- 
pensated for  Oriental  pomps  by  thf  single  circumstance  of 
our  temperate  climate.  O  incomparable  gift  bestowed  on  the 
land  by  Grod  !  0  inestimable  favour — one  not  sufficiently  ap- 
preciated, conferred  on  mortals  from  above  !  We  sleep  secure 
in  the  open  air,  secure  on  the  bare  rock.  We  fear  no  wind 
piercing  us  with  cold,  prostrating  our  strength  with  heat,  or 
carrying  pestilence  in  its  blast.  The  air  we  breathe,  and 
with  which  we  are  surrounded,  lends  us  its  beneficent  and 
salutary  support.  The  nearer,  indeed,  we  go  to  the  regions 
of  the  East,  and  warmer  climates,  the  greater  is  the  fer- 
tility of  the  soil,  and  the  more  plentifully  does  the  earth 
pour  forth  her  fruits.  There  also  are  found  in  abundance 
the  precious  metals  and  gems,  with  silk  and  cotton  wools ; 
and  wealth  of  all  kinds  is  overflowing.  The  people  also, 
thanks  to  a  brighter  atmosphere,  although  slender  in  person, 
are  of  a  more  subtle  intellect.  Hence,  they  have  recourse 
to  poison  rather  than  to  violence  for  success  in  their 
schemes,  and  gain  their  purposes  more  by  their  arts  than 
by  their  arms.  But  when  we  come  to  the  Western  parts 
of  the  world,  we  find  the  soil  more  sterile,  the  air  more 
ealubrious,  and  the  people  less  acute,  but  more  robust ;  for 
where  the  atmosphere  is  heavy,  the  fields  are  less  fertile  than 
the  wits.     And,  as  each  race,  bred  among  Arctic  frosts, 


THE    CLIMATE.  55 

Nascitur  indomitus  bellis,  et  martis  amator  ; 
Gens  haec  ingentes  animos  ingeuti  corpore  versant. 

Is  born  to  war,  and  filled  with  martial  fire — 
So  here  brave  souls  gigantic  frames  inspire. 

Bacchus  and  Ceres,  therefore,  rule  in  the  East,  with  their 
attendant  Yenus,  who,  deprived  of  them,  is  chilled  ;  Miner- 
va, also,  who  was  always  nursed  and  attracted  by  a  purer 
sky.  Here  [in  the  West]  reigns  Mars,  Mercury,  and  the 
Arcadian  god.  In  the  East  is  accumulated  a  superabun- 
dance of  wealth  ;  here  we  have  a  modest  and  honourable 
competence.  There  the  atmosphere  is  serene,  here  it  is 
salubrious.  There  the  natives  are  fine  witted ;  here,  their 
understandings  are  robust.  There  they  arm  themselves 
with  poisons,  here  with  manly  vigour.  There,  they  are 
crafty,  here  bold  in  war.  There  men  cultivate  wisdom,  here 
eloquence.  There  Apollo  rules.  Mercury  here ;  there  Mi- 
nerva, here  Pallas  and  Diana. 

Many  other  things  are  wanting  here  much  to  our  advan- 
tage, such  as  vermin.  Here  there  are  no  earthquakes,  you 
scarcely  hear  thunder  once  in  a  year ;  thunder-claps  do  not 
terrify,  nor  flashes  of  lightning  strike.  Here  are  no  ca- 
taracts to  overwhelm,  no  earthquake  to  swallow  you  up  ;  no 
lions  to  carry  you  off,  no  panthers  to  mangle  you,  no  bears 
to  devour  you,  no  tigers  to  destroy  you.  Moreover,  no 
suspicion  of  poison  makes  you  recoil  from  food,  even  offered 
by  an  enemy.  No  stepson  fears  the  poison  cup  of  his 
mother-in-law,  no  matron  that  of  a  jealous  mistress. 

CHAPTEE  XXYIII. 

THAT  THE  EAST  IS  THE  FOUNTAIN-HEAD  OF  POISONS,  AND 
THAT  THE  ADVANTAGES  IN  THE  WEST  AEE  PREFEEABLE 
TO    THOSE    IN   THE    EAST. 

The  East  is  the  well-spring  of  poisons,  and  the  further  the 
stream  flows  from  the  fountain-head,  the  less  is  its  na- 
tural force.  "Weakening  gradually  during  its  long  course 
through  such  vast  distances,  the  strength  of  the  venom  has 
wholly  evaporated  in  these  extreme  parts  of  the  world. 

The  further  from  the  zodiac  the  sun's  rays  penetrate,  the 
less  is  the  influence  of  its  warmth  on  objects  exposed  to  it,  so 


56  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF   lEELATTD. 

that  some  extreme  parts  of  the  Arctic  regions  are  entirely 
deprived  of  the  benefit  of  its  heat.  But  you  will  say,  "  The 
East  is  super-eminent  for  precious  stones  and  medicinal  roots." 
It  is,  indeed,  a  wise  provision  of  nature,  that  where  evils 
abound,  there  remedies  for  the  evils  should  spring  up. 
Where  many  diseases  are  rife,  they  require  medicines  to  be 
discovered  for  their  cure  ;  but  here,  where  the  danger  is  less, 
the  remedies  are  more  scarce. 

As  much  then  as  ease  of  mind  is  more  desirable  than 
anxiety,  as  preservation  is  better  than  cure,  and  as  it  is 
better  to  enjoy  constant  health  than,  after  much  suffering, 
to  seek  for  remedies,  so  in  the  same  degree,  the  advantages 
of  the  "West  are  to  be  preferred  to  those  of  the  East ;  and 
so  far  nature  has  cast  a  more  favourable  eye  on  the  regions 
fanned  by  the  west,  than  those  swept  by  east  winds.  It 
appears  to  be  very  probable  that  as  moisture  tempers  and 
softens  the  morning  and  evening  of  day,  while  noon  is 
scorching,  and  the  earliest  and  latest  years  of  man  are  mel- 
lowed by  a  moist  temperament,  while  his  middle  age  is  fer- 
vid, so  while,  in  respect  of  the  regions  on  the  meridian 
and  its  confines,  the  sun  raging  in  those  parts  as  if  in  the 
prime  of  youth,  infects  the  air  with  disease,  so  a  more 
humid  climate  renders  the  boundaries  of  its  rising  and 
setting  temperate. 


WONDEIIS   AXD   MIRACLES.  57 


DISTINCTION  11. 

OP  THE  WONDEES  AND   MIEACLES  OF 
lEELAND. 

I  COME  now  to  those  facts  whicli,  being  contrary  to  tte 
course  of  nature,  call  forth  our  wonder  and  amazement. 
Erom  among  these  I  have  thought  it  not  superfluous 
to  employ  my  pen  in  relating  such  as  nature  has  pro- 
duced in  these  remote  lands,  remarkable  and  novel  in 
themselves,  and  such  also  as  have  been  most  eminently 
and  miraculously  wrought  through  the  merits  of  the 
saints ;  the  memorials  of  which  are  extant  in  authentic  re- 
cords, and  most  worthy  of  notice.  As  then  the  prodigies 
of  the  Eastern  regions  have  already  been  brought  to  the 
light  of  public  attention  through  the  labours  of  industrious 
authors,  so  those  of  the  "West,  which  have  hitherto  been 
almost  hidden  and  unknown,  may  at  length,  in  these  latter 
days,  find  an  editor  through  my  labours.  1  know,  however, 
and  am  persuaded,  that  I  shall  have  to  write  some  accounts 
which  will  seem  to  the  reader  either  utterly  impossible,  or 
quite  ridiculous.  But,  with  the  help  of  God,  I  will  insert 
nothing  in  my  book  the  truth  of  which  I  have  not  elicited 
with  the  greatest  diligence  either  from  my  own  firm  belief 
or  the  authentic  testimony  of  most  trustworthy  men,  who 
have  lived  in  the  districts  of  which  I  write.  Let  me  not, 
however,  be  involved  in  a  cloud  of  malicious  slander.  What 
I  have  witnessed  with  my  own  eyes,  that  I  assert  firmly 
and  without  any  hesitation.  But  what  has  only  reached 
my  ear  through  others,  which  I  am  slower  to  believe,  that  I 
do  not  affirm,  but  only  relate.  To  all  those  of  which  I 
received  authentic  accounts  from  many  persons  who  were 
eye-witnesses  of  them,  I  give  full  credence  ;  and  I  accept 
those  given  by  others,  whose  truth  and  assertions  I  find  no 
■^eason  to  doubt. 

It  is  not  surprising  that  wonders  should  be  discovered, 
Belated,  and  written  concerning  Hia  works,  who  made  all 


58  THE   TOPOGEAPHT    OF    lEELAITD. 

things  according  to  his  will ;  with  whom  nothing  is  impos» 
Bible ;  who,  as  the  Grod  of  Nature,  moulds  nature  as  he 
pleases,  and  makes  that  natural  which  appears  unnatural. 
Moreover,  how  can  any  thing  be  said  to  be  done  contrary 
to  primitive  and  true  nature,  which  is  God,  when  it  is  cer- 
tain that  he  is  the  doer  of  it  ?  Those  things,  therefore,  are, 
in  common  phrase,  rather  than  properly,  said  to  be  done 
contrary  to  nature,  which  appear  to  happen,  not  contrary 
to  his  power,  but  to  his  usual  proceeding.  Since,  therefore, 
Grod  is  wonderful  in  his  saints,  and  great  in  all  his  doings, 
come  and  behold  the  works  of  the  Lord,  who  hath  shown  his 
wonders  in  the  earth. 

Some  countries,  islands  especially,  and  parts  remote  from 
the  centre  of  the  earth,  are  remarkable  for  prodigies  which 
are  peculiarly  their  own.  For  nature  always,  and  purposely 
as  it  were,  interlards  her  works  with  some  new  ones,  that 
she  may  thus  plainly  teach  and  declare,  that  although  her 
usual  operations  may  be  comprehended  by  the  human  un- 
derstanding, her  mighty  power  cannot  be  understood.  Let 
the  careful  reader  also  remark  that  history  must  not  be 
sparing  of  truth,  and  that  it  rather  chooses  what  is  certain 
than  what  is  probable.  If,  therefore,  anything  should  escape 
me  which  is  new  and  unheard  of,  let  it  not  be  condemned 
and  struck  out  even  by  the  malicious,  but  sometimes  par- 
doning, sometimes  approving,  let  my  task  proceed.  Tor 
as  the  poet  sings  : — 

"  Si  patribus  nostris  novitas  invisa  fuisset, 
Ut  nobis,  quid  nunc  esset  vetus,  aut  quid  kaberet 
Quod  legeret,  tereretque  viritim  publicus  usus  ?"' 

Let  no  one,  therefore,  condemn  anything  because  it  is 
new,  which,  as  time  passes  on,  while  it  is  accused  of  no- 
velty, ceases  to  be  new.  Let  there  be  found  here  both  what 
the  present  age  may  blame,  and  posterity  applaud ;  what  the 
one  may  rail  at,  the  other  read ;  what  the  one  may  con- 
demn, the  other  love;  what  the  one  may  reprove,  the 
other  approve. 

*  Hor.  Epist.  II.,  1.  90.  3.  Giraldus  has  altered  the  beginning  of 
the  first  line,  which  is  in  the  original : 

"  Quod  si  tarn  Graiis  novitas,"  &c. 


THE   TIDES    IK    lEELAKD    AND    BEITAIIT.  5i 


CHAPTEE  I. 

or    THE     STEOKG     CTJREEKTS    IN   THE   lEISH    SEA,    AND  THH 
EBB    AND    ELOW    OE    THE    TIDES    THEEEIN. 

The  Irisli  Sea,  being  agitated  by  opposing  currents,  is  almost 
always  troubled,  so  that  navigators  scarcely  ever  find  it 
tranquil  even  for  a  few  days  in  summer. 

CHAPTEE  II. 

or    THE   DIEFEEENCE    OE    THE    TIDES    IN   lEELAND    AND 
BEITAIN. 

"Whenetee  tbe  water  is  low  in  the  port  of  Dublin,  the  tide 
being  at  half-ebb,  the  returning  tide  has  already  risen  to 
half-flood  at  Milford,  the  most  excellent  harbour  iu  Britain 
for  ships  to  enter.  At  the  same  time  the  flood-tide  gradu- 
ally runs  up  to  the  farthest  coast  about  Bristol,  which  had 
been  left  dry  by  the  receding  waters.  The  same  rule  applies 
to  the  tides  on  the  opposite  shores.  There  is  also  a  port  at 
"Wicklow,  on  the  coast  of  Ireland,  lying  opposite  to  France,^ 
into  which  the  tide  sets  when  it  is  ebbing  at  most  other 
places,  but  when  the  flood  returns,  this  port  is  left  dry. 
There  is  another  thing  remarkable  in  this  locality ;  when 
the  sea  has  receded  and  left  the  whole  bay  dry,  still  a 
stream  flows  in  through  the  entire  channel  to  the  harbour, 
which  makes  the  water  salt  and  brackish.  On  the  contrary, 
at  Arklow,  which  is  the  nearest  port,  not  only  when  the 
tide  is  setting  in  and  filling  the  bay,  but  also  at  its  reflux, 
when  the  sea  has  entirely  ebbed,  the  stream  which  runs 
down  retains  its  purity  and  freshness,  and  discharges  its 
waters  into  the  sea  without  any  mixture  of  saltness. 

CHAPTEE  III. 

OF   THE    INFLIJENCE    OF    THE    SEA    ON    THE    WATEES,   AS 
WELL    AS    ON   NATUEAL    HrMOUES. 

When  the  moon  is  at  the  meridian,  the  ocean,  withdrawing 
its  attendant  waves,  leaves  the  northern  coasts  of  Britain 

'  Wicklow  andAi'klow  (called  by  Gh*aldus  Gwykingelo  and  Archelo) 
«re  sea-ports  on  the  Irish  channel,  incorrectly  described  by  Giraldus 
M  opposite  to  the  coast  of  Franc© 


60  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OF  lEELAND. 

entirely  dry.  The  reflux  then  produces  high  tides  ou  tli€ 
Irish  shore  at  Dublin.  The  coast  about  Wexford,  however 
has  not  the  Irish  tides  of  Dublin,  but  the  British  as  they 
flow  at  Milford.  What  is  still  more  remarkable,  there  is  a 
rock  in  the  sea,  not  far  from  Arklow,  where  the  tide  cornea 
in  on  one  side,  while  it  ebbs  on  the  other. 

When  the  moon  is  at  half  her  growth,  as  her  light  re- 
turns, the  Western  seas,  from  some  unknown  natural  cause, 
begin  to  be  rough  and  agitated,  and,  till  she  is  in  her  full, 
Bwell  more  and  more  from  day  to  day,  overflowing  the  shore 
far  beyond  their  usual  bounds.  But  when  the  moon  wanes, 
and  her  light  failing,  she,  as  it  were,  turns  away  her  face, 
the  swelling  of  the  waters  gradually  declines,  and  when  the 
moon's  face  is  no  longer  seen,  the  sea  returns  into  its  proper 
channels,  its  overflow  subsiding.  Indeed,  the  moon  is  the 
entire  source  and  cause  of  motion  in  liquids,  so  that  it  not 
only  regulates  the  waters  of  the  ocean,  but,  in  animal  life, 
influences  the  marrow  in  the  bones,  the  brains  in  the  head, 
and  the  juices  of  trees  and  plants,  in  proportion  to  its  in- 
crease or  decrease.^  Hence,  when  the  moon  ceases  to  be  lu- 
minous you  will  find  all  animate  nature  shrink,  but  when 
she  is  again  round  and  shining  at  the  full,  the  marrow  fills 
the  bones,  the  brains  the  head,  and  the  juices  of  vegetables 
swell.  Hence  it  is,  that  those  are  called  lunatics,  who 
suffer  every  month  by  the  excessive  action  of  the  brain,  as 
the  moon  increases  ;  and  the  word  mensis  (a  month)  is  derived 
from  mene^  which  signifies  decrease,^  because  it  decrease? 
with  the  moon,  and  with  her  increase  fills  and  completes  its 
course. 

It  may  be  observed  that  a  commentator  on  that  part  of 
the  Qospel  which  speaks  of  our  Lord's  curing  lunatics  and 
paralytics,  writes  to  the  following  effect.  He  calls  those 
lunatics  whose  disorder  augmented  with  the  increase  of  the 
moon,  not  that  their  madness  is  caused  by  the  moon,  but 
the  devil,  who  is  the  author  of  it,  takes  advantage  of  the 
moon's  seasons  to  shame  the  creature  to  the  blasphemy  of  his 
Creator.     The  commentator  might,  however,  have  said  with 

^  The  extraordinary  influence  of  the  moon  on  the  earth  and  its  in- 
habitants was  one  of  the  foundation  stones  of  mediaeval  science,  and 
was  the  origin  of  numerous  superstitions,  some  of  which  have  hardlj 
yet  become  obsolete.  ^  From  minuo^  to  diminish  ? 


PECITLIAEITIES   OP  TWO  ISLATTDS.  61 

equal  truth,  if  I  may  be  allowed  to  correct  him,  that  vale- 
tudinarians are  affected  in  this  manner  on  account  of  the 
humours  increasing  in  an  extraordinary  degree  at  the  full- 
moon.  But  matters  of  this  sort,  and  why  the  Western 
ocean  attracts  the  flux  and  reflux  of  the  tides  by  some  lively 
influence,  which  is  regular  and  unfailing,  and  acts  more 
powerfully  than  the  Mediterranean  Sea ;  and  how  all  this  is 
affected  through  the  influence  of  the  moon  on  liquids ;  it 
would  be  a  more  serious  task  to  explain.  I  have  clearly, 
though  briefly,  treated  on  these  subjects  in  my  little  metrical 
work  called  "  The  Flowers  of  Philosophy."  ^ 

In  order,  however,  shortly  to  direct  the  readers'  attention 
to  the  more  evident  causes  of  these  great  changes,  and  to  a 
fuller  investigation  of  their  subtle  principles,  let  him  bear  in 
mind  these  four  points.  E^ivers,  and  the  springs  which 
feed  them,  from  which  the  sea  in  some  degree  derives  life 
and  motion,  are  always  more  abundant  towards  the  extre- 
mities of  the  earth.  Erom  the  four  conflicting  and  most 
distant  parts  of  the  ocean,  there  is  a  certain  violent  attrac- 
tion of  the  sea,  with  alternate  absorption  and  ebullition,  and 
the  disorder  immediately  occasioned  by  the  decrease  as  well 
as  by  the  increase  of  humidity,  towards  the  extremities  of 
the  earth,  is  very  apparent.  Add  to  this,  that  there  the  ocean 
has  freer  course  for  its  flux  and  reflux  without  impedi- 
ment. When,  however,  the  land  embraces  it  on  all  sides, 
and  it  is  reduced  by  so  many  obstacles  to  the  conditions 
of  standing  water  in  a  lake,  it  has  no  scope  for  flowing  freely. 

CHAPTEE  ly. 

or   TWO    ISLAI^'DS,    IN    ONE     OF     WHICH    KG    OI!fE    DIES,    AND 
IN   THE   OTHER,  NO  ANIMAL  OF  THE  FEMALE  SEX  ENTEES. 

Theee  is  a  lake  in  the  northern  parts  of  Munster,^  contain- 
ing two  islands,  one  large,  the  other  small.  In  the  larger 
island  there  is  a  church  held  in  great  veneration  from  the 

1  Be  philosophicis  flosculis.  This  work  of  Giraldus  Cambrensis  is  not 
cow  known  to  exist. 

2  These  islands  were  situated  in  a  lake  called  Loch  Cre,  now  dried 
up,  in  the  parish  of  Corbally,  three  miles  from  Eoscrea,  in  Tipperary, 
The  bog,  which  has  taken  the  place  of  the  lake,  is  called  Monaincha, 
1.  e.  the  bog  of  the  island  ;  and  on  the  latter,  which  is  supposed  to  con- 
sist of  the  two  islands  spoken  of  by  Giraldus,  there  are  the  ruins  of  ■ 
monastic  house. 


62  THE  IJPOGRAPHT  OP  lEELAKD. 

earliest  times ;  the  smaller  island  contains  a  chapel,  which 
is  devoutly  served  by  a  few  celibates,  called  Heaven-wor- 
shippers, or  Grod-worshippers.  No  woman,  nor  any  animal 
of  the  female  sex,  could  ever  enter  the  larger  island  with- 
out instant  death.  This  has  been  often  proved  by  dogs  and 
cats,  and  other  animals,  of  the  female  sex,  which,  having 
been  carried  over  for  sake  of  the  experiment,  immediately 
expired.  It  is  an  extraordinary  fact,  that  while  male  birds 
perch  on  the  bushes  on  all  parts  of  the  island  in  great  num- 
bers, the  female  birds  with  whom  they  pair,  fly  back,  avoiding 
the  island  from  some  natural  instinct  of  its  qualities,  as  if  it 
were  infested  with  the  plague.  In  the  smaller  island  no  one 
ever  dies,  was  ever  known  to  die,  or  could  die  a  natural  death. 
It  is  consequently  called  the  Isle  of  the  Living.  Notwithstand- 
ing, its  inhabitants  are  sometimes  severely  afflicted  with 
mortal  diseases,  and  languish  in  misery  till  life  is  nearly 
exhausted.  But  when  no  hope  remains,  all  expectation  of 
the  powers  of  life  being  restored  becomes  extinct,  and  they 
are  reduced  by  their  increasing  malady  to  such  a  degree  of 
suffering  that  they  would  rather  die  than  live  a  life  of 
death,  the  natives  cause  themselves  to  be  ferried  over  in  a 
boat  to  the  larger  island,  where  they  breathe  their  last  as 
soon  as  they  touch  the  land.  I  have  thought  it  right  to 
notice  this  because  it  is  mentioned  in  the  first  pages  of  the 
Scholastic  History,  which  treats  of  the  inhabitants  of  islands 
of  this  description.  The  tree  of  the  sun  is  also  there  spoken 
of,  concerning  which  king  Alexander  writes  to  Aristotle, 
that  whoever  eats  of  the  fruit  prolongs  his  life  to  an  immense 
period. 

There  is  also  in  Ulster  a  cemetery,  with  a  station,  conse- 
crated by  the  long  resort  of  holy  men.  Here,  also,  the  female 
sex  is  not  admitted;  the  bride  cannot  follow  her  husband,  but  a 
local  divorce  takes  place;  they  cannot  join  in  their  devotions, 
and  on  this  spot  they  are  adjudged  to  an  early  separation. 
The  cock  enters  here  without  the  hen,  and,  strange  to  ob- 
serve, it  calls  its  mate  without  avail  when  it  finds  a  place  to 
feed  in  the  island. 

There  is  likewise,  in  the  northern  parts  of  Britain,  an 
island  called  the  Holy  Isle,  where  women  cannot  bring  forth 
children,  yet  they  conceive,  becoming  pregnant,  and  increase 
m  size  according  to  the  natural  order  of  things,  till  the  time 


ST.  PATRICK  S    PUEGATOET.  63 

of  delivery.  "When  that  is  near  at  hand,  if  they  are  carried 
to  another  island,  nature  takes  its  free  course  ;  but  if  they 
are  detained,  as  sometimes  is  done  for  the  sake  of  experi- 
ment, they  are  tortured  with  excruciating  pains,  and  re- 
duced to  the  door  of  death  by  their  sufferings,  until  they 
are  sent  away. 

CHAPTEE  Y. 

OF   AN   ISLAND,    ONE    PAET     OF    WHICH    IS    FEEQTJENTED    BY 
GOOD    SPIEITS,    THE    OTHEE    BY    EYIL    SPIEITS. 

There  is  a  lake  in  Ulster  containing  an  island  divided 
into  two  parts.  In  one  of  these  stands  a  church  of  espe- 
cial sanctity,  and  it  is  most  agreeable  and  delightful,  as 
well  as  beyond  measure  glorious  for  the  visitations  of  angels 
and  the  multitude  of  the  saints  who  visibly  frequent  it. 
The  other  part,  being  covered  with  rugged  crags,  is 
reported  to  be  the  resort  of  devils  only,  and  to  be  almost 
always  the  theatre  on  which  crowds  of  evil  spirits  visibly 
perform  their  rites.  This  part  of  the  island  contains  nine 
pits,  and  should  any  one  perchance  venture  to  spend  the 
night  in  one  of  them  (which  has  been  done,  we  know,  at 
times,  by  some  rash  men),  he  is  immediately  seized  by  the 
malignant  spirits,  who  so  severely  torture  him  during  the 
whole  night,  inflicting  on  him  such  unutterable  sufferings  by 
fire  and  water,  and  other  torments  of  various  kinds,  that 
when  morning  comes  scarcely  any  spark  of  life  is  found  left 
in  his  wretched  body.  It  is  said  that  any  one  who  has  once 
submitted  to  these  torments  as  a  penance  imposed  upon  him, 
will  not  afterwards  undergo  the  pains  of  hell,  unless  he  com- 
mit some  sin  of  a  deeper  dye. 

This  place  is  called  by  the  natives  the  Purgatory  of 
St.  Patrick.'     For    he    having    to  argue  with  a  heathen 

'  Tradition  places  St.  Patrick's  Purgatory,  as  Giraldus  describes  it, 
on  an  island  in  a  lake  in  the  province  of  Ulster,  Lough  Derg,  in  Done- 
negal,  near  the  town  and  bay  of  the  same  name,  and  about  three-quarters 
of  an  Irish  mile  in  extent ;  but  Gu'aldus  is  the  only  writer  who  speaks 
of  its  division  into  paradisaic  and  purgatorial  regions.  The  text-book 
on  St.  Patrick's  Purgatory,  in  the  middle  ages,  was  a  Latin  narrative  by 
Henry  of  Saltery,  which  is  dated  1152,  and  is  common  in  old  manu- 
scripts j  it  was  translated  into  various  languages.  Giraldus  had  evidently 
not  seen  this  book,  as  his  account  differs  very  much  from  it.    See  iot 


64  THE   TOPOGEAPHT   OF   lEELABD. 

race  concerning  the  torments  of  liell  reserved  for  the 
reprobate,  and  the  real  nature  and  eternal  duration  of  the 
future  life,  in  order  to  impress  on  the  rude  minds  of  the 
unbelievers  a  mysterious  faith  in  doctrines  so  new,  so 
strange,  so  opposed  to  their  prejudices,  procured  by  the 
eihcacy  of  his  prayers  an  exemplification  of  both  states 
even  on  earth,  as  a  salutary  lesson  to  the  stubborn  minds 
of  the  people. 

CHAPTEE  VI. 

or  AF  ISLAND  WHEEE  HUMAK  CORPSES  EXPOSED  TO  THE 
ATMOSPHERE  DO  NOT  SUEEEE  DECAY. 

Theee  is  an  island  called  Aren,^  situated  in  the  western 
part  of  Connaught,  and  consecrated,  as  it  is  said,  to  St. 
Brendan,  where  human  corpses  are  neither  buried  nor  de- 
cay, but,  deposited  in  the  open  air,  remain  uncorrupted. 
Here  men  can  behold,  and  recognise  with  wonder,  grand- 
fathers, great-grandfathers,  and  great-great-grandfathers, 
and  the  long  series  of  their  ancestors  to  a  remote  period  of 
past  time. 

There  is  another  thing  remarkable  in  this  island.  Al- 
though mice^  swarm  in  vast  numbers  in  other  parts  of 
Ireland,  here  not  a  single  one  is  found.  No  mouse  is  bred 
here,  nor  does  it  live  if  it  be  introduced ;  when  brought 
over,  it  runs  immediately  away  and  leaps  into  the  sea.  It' 
it  be  stopped,  it  instantly  dies. 

full  information  on  the  subject,  the  volume  on  "  St.  Patrick's  Purgatory," 
by  the  editor  of  the  present  volume.  It  appears  that  the  penitents  were 
immured  in  a  low  and  dai-k  cell  cut  in  the  rock,  and  capable  of  holding 
six  or  eight  persons,  where,  with  their  heads  half-turned  by  preparatory 
fastings  and  watchings,  they  were  in  a  state  to  place  implicit  faith  in 
the  visions  which  superstition  presented  to  their  distempered  imagina- 
tion through  a  narrow  window,  the  only  aperture  left  in  the  stifling  cell. 

^  These  legends  belong  to  an  island  called  Inisgluair,  oif  the  coast  of 
Erris,  co.  Mayo,  which  was  sacred  to  St.  Brandau,  and  which  Giraldus 
seems  to  have  confounded  with  Aran.  According  to  the  legend,  the 
latter  island  was  visited  by  St.  Brandan  when  he  set  out  on  his  grand 
voyage.  St.  Bean  is  supposed  to  be  the  saint  of  that  name  commemo- 
rated in  the  Romish  calendar  on  the  16th  of  December. 

2  Giraldus  uses  the  word  mures,  but  some  of  the  Irish  antiquaries 
Believe  that  by  thiu  word  he  meant  the  small  black  rat  which  abounds 
in  Ireland. 


WONDERFUL    NATUEES    OF    FOFNTAINS.  65 

CHAPTEE  VII. 

OF  THE  WONDEEFrL  I^^ATUEES  OF  SOME  FOUNTAINS. 

Theee  is  a  well  in  Munster,  in  the  waters  of  which  whoever 
bathes  has  his  hair  immediately  turned  grej.  I  have  seen 
a  man,  part  of  whose  beard,  having  been  washed  in  this 
water,  had  become  white,  while  the  other  part  retained  its 
dark  natural  colour.  On  the  contrary,  there  is  a  spring  in 
Ulster,  which  prevents  people  who  wash  in  its  waters  from 
ever  becoming  grey-haired.  It  is  frequented  by  women,  and 
by  men  who  are  desirous  of  avoiding  grey  hairs.  ^ 

There  is  also  a  spring  of  fresh  water  in  Connaught,  at 
the  top  of  a  high  mountain,  and  far  from  the  coast,  which 
ebbs  twice  a  day,  and  flows  over  as  often,  like  the  tides  in 
the  sea.  There  is  also  in  Wales,  not  far  from  the  castle  of 
Dinevur,"  in  the  province  of  Canterbochan,  a  spring  whose 
waters  have  similar  changes.  Trojus  Pompeius  mentions  a 
town  of  the  Garamantes,  in  which  a  fountain  bursts  forth, 
which  is  alternately  cold  by  night  and  warm  by  day.' 

In  the  southern  part  of  Britain  also,  which  takes  its 
name  from  that  of  its  lord,  several  springs  bubbling  out 
from  the  naked  rocks  not  far  from  each  other,  but  at  a  great 
distance  from  the  sea,  are  of  a  very  changeable  nature. 
The  waters  of  these  are  neither  sweet  nor  salt,  but  brackish. 
One  of  them,  which  springs  out  on  the  summit  of  a  high 
rock  having  the  appearance  of  a  lofty  tower,  at  the  full 
tides  of  every  month,  which  accompany  the  moon's  increase, 
throws  up  a  much  larger  volume  of  water  than  usual,  to  the 
admiration  of  all  beholders. 

Likewise,  in  the  Chiltern  district  of  Britain,^  there  are 
many  springs  which  are  entirely  dried  up  when  the  crops 
are  abundant,  the  earth  being  parched  for  want  of  their 

*  It  is  not  at  present  known  to  what  wells  Giraldus  here  refers.  A 
well,  the  water  of  which  turned  the  hair  grey,  is  mentioned  as  being  in 
the  parish  of  Gallom,  in  tlie  county  of  Monaghan,  and  therefore  in 
Ulster,  while  that  spoken  of  by  Giraldus  was  in  Munster.  But  holy 
and  legendary  wells  are  abundant  in  Ireland. 

^  This  spring  is  again  mentioned  in  the  Itinerary  of  Giraldus,  lib.  1, 
c.  X.  3  rpi^jg  statement  is  taken  from  SoHnus,  c.  29. 

^  The  Chiltern   hills    are   in  Buckinghamshire,    on    the   borders 
Berkshire  and  Oxfordshire,  deriving  their  name  from  "  chilt,"  or  "  cylt»' 
the  old  Enghsh  word  for  chalk,  of  which  the  district  is  composed. 

V 


66  topograph:!  or  irelaxd. 

refreshing  streams.  Against  a  time  of  dearth  and  famine, 
however,  the  waters  bubble  up  freely  from  the  veins  of  the 
earth,  and  bursting  their  channels,  the  precursors  of  evil, 
are  seen  to  overflow.  There  is  a  fountain  equally  remark- 
able for  the  same  prognostics  at  the  village  of  Nicbatensis/ 
in  the  territory  of  Yimoux,  in  the  kingdom  of  FTance. 

In  some  parts  of  Normandy,  however,  it  happens  just  the 
contrary.  The  springs  are  full  in  seasons  of  plenty,  and 
fail  w^hen  the  crops  are  delicient.  There  is  a  spring  in  the 
most  northern  part  of  Ulster,  v^hich  is  so  excessively  cold 
that  it  hardens  wood,  which  has  been  immersed  in  it  for 
seven  years,  into  stone.  We  find  in  Norway  another  spring 
having  the  same  property,  only  being  nearer  the  Frigid 
Zone,  it  is  still  more  powerful ;  for  not  only  timber,  but 
flax  and  woollen  webs,  are  congealed  into  the  hardest  stone 
when  they  have  been  immersed  in  this  spring  a  single  year. 
In  consequence,  Oxippale,  a  Norwegian  bishop,  brought  to 
Waldemar,  king  of  Denmark  in  our  time,  an  object  which 
he  had  received  from  him  the  year  before,  for  the  purpose 
of  making  the  experiment.  It  had  now  two  difi'erent  parts, 
as  far  as  the  middle,  having  been  immersed  in  the  water,  it 
was  stone ;  the  other  part,  which  had  lain  out  of  the  water, 
retained  its  original  nature. 

In  Grreat  Britain,  near  the  monastery  of  Wimbom,  stands 
a  grove  of  fruit  trees,  the  wood  of  which,  when  it  happens 
to  fall  into  the  water,  or  on  the  earth  at  that  spot,  is  at  a 
year's  end  converted  to  stone ;  so  that  stakes  fixed  in  a 
hedge  and  planted  in  the  soil,  have  different  properties  above 
and  below  the  surface  of  the  ground.  Moreover,  any 
articles  carved  in  wood,  and  deposited  either  in  the  water, 
or  in  the  earth,  at  that  place  for  a  year,  are  taken  out  by 
the  inhabitants  changed  into  stone.^     What  Palladius  says 

^  We  have  not  been  able  to  identify  this  place. 

2  What  Giraldua  relates  of  the  petrifaction  of  wood  and  other  Bub- 
Btanees  immersed  in  certain  springs,  was  probably  derived  from  reports 
which  had  reached  him  of  the  calcareous  and  silicious  incrustations 
produced  by  the  deposits  of  these  waters.  There  are  none  more  active 
than  the  stream  wnich  flows  into  the  lake  of  the  Solfatara,  between 
Rome  and  Tivoh,  where  we  have  gathered  reeds  and  aquatic  plants,  crys- 
tallized during  the  process  of  vegetation.  Sir  Humphrey  Davey,  in  hia 
"  Consolations  of  Travel,"  says  that  he  fixed  a  stick  in  a  mass  of  tra- 
vertin, covered  by  the  water,  in  the  month  of  May,  and  in  April  fol- 
lowing he  had  soae  difficulty  in  breaking  with  a  sharp-pointed  hammer 


WONDEEFTJL    IfATURES    OF    FOUiNTAINS.  67 

on  this  subject  I  think  worth  quotiDg  here.  "There  ism 
Cappadocia  an  extensive  lake,  situated  on  the  road  between 
Mazaca  and  Tuana.  When  reeds  or  other  things  are  partially 
immersed  in  this  lake,  on  their  being  drawn  forth  the  next 
day,  the  part  which  is  taken  out  is  found  stony,  but  that 
which  remained  out  of  the  water  retains  its  natural  con- 
dition." Lo  !  how  potent  are  the  effects  of  the  water  of  that 
lake,  which  accomplishes  in  the  space  of  one  day  what  else- 
where it  requires  one  year,  or  even  seven  years,  to  perform. 
In  Hungary,  there  is  a  fountain,  the  streams  of  which,  not 
far  from  their  source,  are  congealed  to  crystal  ice.  And 
what  is  still  more  remarkable,  when  the  sun's  rays  first 
strike  the  ice,  it  is  condensed  into  a  solid  mass  of  stone, 
impervious  to  the  sight,  although  it  might  rather  be  ex- 
pected that  the  ice  would  be  dissolved  by  the  sun.  Hence 
a  rocky  mount  has  been  formed  of  considerable  size  from 
liquids  suddenly  converted  into  solid  matter,  contrary  to 
the  usual  course  of  nature.^  In  Switzerland,  in  the  province 
called  Suitis  (Schwytz),  there  is  a  spring  on  the  top  of  a  high 
mountain  which  never  flows  except  when  the  sun  is  above  the 
horizon.  As  soon  as  the  sun  descends  below  the  horizon  it 
ceases  to  flow,  until  the  sun  has  performed  its  revolution  and 
appears  to  us  again  the  next  day.  In  the  morning,  not  at  day- 
break, but  when  the  sun  has  just  risen  and  emerged  from  be- 
low the  horizon,  it  pours  forth  its  waters  in  great  quantity. 
During  the  entire  night  it  does  not  yield  a  drop,  although 
it  is  the  general  character  of  night,  being  humid  and  cold, 
to  be  congenial  to  the  production  of  water."- 
There  is  a  fountain    in   Poitou,   at   St.  Jean  d'Angeli,^ 

the  mass  which  adhered  to  the  stick,  and  which  was  several  inches  in 
thickness.  The  principal  edifices  of  ancient  and  modern  Rome  are 
built  of  travertin  from  the  quarries,  composed  of  solid  calcareous  tufa, 
the  deposit  from  such  springs  which  abound  in  the  Campagna  di  Roma. 

'  Our  author  appears  to  have  received  some  accounts  of  the  effects 
of  glacial  action  in  ilie  formation  of  Moranies  in  Alpine  countries.  See 
Lyell's  Elements,  chap,  xx.,  and  Forester's  Norway. 

2  It  can  be  no  wonder  that  in  one  of  the  most  elevated  cantons  of 
Switzerland,  the  streams  fed  by  the  melting  of  the  snow  under  the 
influence  of  the  sun's  rays  in  the  day-time  should  cease  to  flow  during 
the  night. 

5  St.  Jean  d'Angeli  is  a  town  in  the  S.W".  of  France,  in  the  depart- 
ment of  La  Charente  Inferieure.  The  fine  fa9ade  of  the  Benedictine 
Abbey,  from  -whence  the  town  derived  its  name,  is  still  standing. 

F  2 


68  THE    TOPOGEAPHY    OF    lEELAlST). 

where  tlie  head  of  St.  John  the  Baptist  is  preserved,  from 
which  no  water  issues  in  winter,  while,  contrary  to  the  usual 
nature  of  springs,  it  pours  forth  copious  streams  during  the 
summer.  In  Cornwall  there  is  wood,  the  timber  of  which 
thrown  into  the  water,  even  in  very  small  pieces,  will  not 
float.  There  is  also  in  France,  not  far  from  the  city  of 
Paris,  a  wood  adjoining  the  bank  of  the  river  Seine,  and  in- 
tersected by  a  public  road.  If  you  throw  into  the  water  a 
piece  of  timber  taken  from  one  side  of  this  road,  such  is 
its  peculiar  gravity  from  occult  causes,  that,  quite  contrary 
to  the  usual  nature  of  wood,  it  instantly  sinks  to  the  bot- 
tom like  a  mass  of  stone.  On  the  other  side  of  the  road 
the  timber  preserves  its  natural  lightness.  This  wood, 
therefore,  presents  a  stupendous  prodigy  of  two  sorts.  We 
have  to  wonder  at  the  unnatural  gravity  of  light  substances 
contained  in  it,  and  also  at  the  wonderful  difference  exhi- 
bited in  a  small  space  of  ground. 

In  Auvergne,  in  the  same  kingdom  of  France,  there  is  a 
forest,  very  thickly  wooded,  and  exhibiting  a  nature  quite 
contrary  to  the  usual  character.  Part  of  it,  when  by 
some  accident  it  has  taken  fire  and  burnt  down  to  the 
roots  of  the  trees,  spontaneously  shoots  up  again  with- 
out any  labour  bestowed  on  its  cultivation.*  But  who 
shall  presume  to  investigate  or  to  assign  the  causes  of  such 
occurrences,  when  it  is  plain  that  the  use  of  the  elements  is 
common  to  all  classes  of  animated  nature  ?  In  Connaught 
there  is  a  fountain  whose  waters  are  salubrious  to  man 
only,  but  pestilential  to  beasts  of  burden,  cattle,  and  ani- 
mals of  all  sorts,  when  they  venture  to  taste  them.  Pebbles 
taken  from  this  fountain  allay  thirst,  if  held  in  the  mouth 
when  it  is  parched.  There  is  a  fountain  in  Hungary  still 
more  noxious  than  the  former,  inasmuch  as  it  is  more  uni- 
versally injurious,  its  stream  being  poisonous  to  mankind  as 

^  Any  one  who  has  travelled  in  forest  districts  may  have  had  oppor- 
tunities of  obsei'ving  that  the  growth  of  young  underwood  from  the 
stools  of  the  burnt  trees,  after  a  conflagration,  is  no  uncommon  occur- 
rence; but  had  Giraldus  known  that  sometimes  the  yovmgwood  which 
springs  up  consists  of  species  of  trees  wholly  diiferent  from  those  which 
covered  the  gi'ound  before,  he  might  well  have  classed  the  fact  among 
the  "  wonders  "  of  nature.  We  are  not  aware  in  what  part  of  A.uvergne 
the  forest  alluded  to  is  situated.  It  would  have  been  more  to  our  author's 
pm'pose  to  have  noticed  the  calcareous  springs  of  that  district,  which 
bare  formed  limestone  elevations  of  surprising  magnitude. 


TWO    EXTEAOEDI^s'AEY  FOUNTAIN'S.  69 

well  as  to  all  kinds  of  animals.  There  is  also  in  the  kingdom 
of  France,  not  far  from  the  castle  of  Pascensis/  a  fountain, 
the  waters  of  which  only  suit  males,  being  unserviceable  for 
women,  either  as  a  beverage  or  for  exterior  use.  It  is  re- 
ported that  these  waters  retain  their  cold  temperature  in 
spite  of  all  applications  of  heat ;  no  contrivance  will  change 
their  natural  properties,  and  neither  by  art  or  by  accident 
can  they  be  disguised  or  got  rid  of,  even  for  a  single  hour. 

In  the  kingdom  of  G-ermany  and  province  of  Cambray,  on 
the  frontiers  of  France,  there  is  a  river  with  a  ford  staked 
out  across  the  stream,  with  two  rows  of  stakes,  one  above, 
one  below  the  ford.  "Within  these  bounds  the  water  is 
always  pestiferous  to  horses  ;  but  outside  the  boundary 
both  horses  and  all  other  sorts  of  animals  come  to  drink  in 
common  without  injury.  There  is  a  fountain  in  Munster 
which,  being  touched  or  even  looked  at  by  any  human 
being,  will  immediately  inundate  the  whole  province  with 
rain.2  Nor  will  it  cease  until  a  priest,  specially  appointed, 
and  who  has  been  continent  from  his  birth,  has  appeased 
the  fountain  by  performing  mass  in  a  chapel,  which  is 
known  to  have  been  founded  not  far  off  for  this  purpose, 
and  by  sprinkling  holy  water  and  the  milk  of  a  cow  having 
only  one  colour — a  rite,  indeed,  extremely  barbarous,  and 
void  of  all  reason. 

CHAPTEE  yni. 

OF    TWO    EXTEAOBDTNARY    FOUNTAINS,    ONE    IN    BEITANT, 
THE    OTHEE    IN    SICILY. 

Theee  is  a  fountain  in  Armorican  Britain  of  a  somewhat 
similar  nature;  for  if  you  draw  its  Mater  in  the  horn  of  an 
ox,  and  happen  to  spill  it  on  the  nearest  road,  however 
serene  the  sky  may  be  and  contrary  to  rain,  you  will  not 
avoid  its  immediately  falling.  In  Sicily  there  is  a  most 
wonderful  fountain.  If  any  one  approaches  it  dressed  in  a 
red  garment,  its  waters,  bubbling  up,  suddenly  rise  to  the 
height  of  the  man's  stature,  although  other  colours  produce 
no  agitation  of  the  surface.     On  the  man's  departure,  the 

'  It  would  be  difficult  to  ascertain  what  was  the  place  here  alluded 
to  by  Giraldus. 

2  According  to  other  authorities,  this  well  was  in  the  mountain  oi 
Slieve-Bloom,  in  Leinster,  and  was,  in  fact,  identical  with  the  spring 
which  forms  the  source  of  iJie  river  Barrow. 


70  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF    lEELATH). 

waters,  sinkiDg  to  their  usual  level,  return  into  their  fcrmei 
channels. 

"  Felix  qui  potuit  rerum  cop^noscere  eausas, 

Et  fontem  luatrasse  boni." 
"  'Tis  blest  to  leani  the  principles  of  nature, 
And  scan  the  source  of  good." 

But  since  bounds  are  set  to  the  powers  of  the  human  mind, 
and  everything  mortal  ia  far  from  perfection,  the  causes  of 
such  occurrences 

"Dicite  Pierides  : — Non  omnia  possumus  omnes." 
'■  Ye  Muses  tell ;  we  cannot  master  aU." 

Envious  nature  has  locked  up  the  causes  of  these  and 
other  unusual  occurrences  among  her  own  mysterious  won- 
ders. There  is  on  the  sea-shore  of  Connaught  a  rocky  point 
of  considerable  size,  which,  when  the  tide  is  out,  appears 
to  rise  above  the  strand  no  higher  than  it  does  above  the 
returning  waves  which  cover  all  larger  objects  when  the 
tide  is  full.  There  is  also  in  Connaught  a  walled  place, 
having  the  appearance  of  a  large  castle,  consecrated, 
they  say,  by  St.  Patrick.  Into  this  inclosure  they  never 
drive  so  many  cattle  (although  the  booty  of  the  whole  pro- 
vince is  very  often  shut  up  in  this  place  of  refuge),  but  that 
it  would  contain  many  more,  until  by  chance  it  is  reported 
that  it  is  full,  or  supposed  to  be  full. 

CHAPTEE  IX. 

of  a  great  lake  which  oeigifated  is  a  eemaekablh 
ma:nfee. 

Theee  is  a  lake  in  Ulster  of  vast  size,  being  thirty  miles 
long  and  fifteen  broad,^  from  which  a  very  beautiful  river, 
called  the  Banna,  flows  into  the  Northern  ocean.  The  fisher- 
men in  this  lake  make  more  frequent  complaints  of  the 
quantity  of  fish  inclosed  in  their  nets  and  breaking  them 
than  of  the  want  of  fish.  In  our  time  a  fish  was  caught 
here  which  had  not  come  up  from  the  sea,  but  was  taken 

'  Giraldus  refers  to  Lough  Neagh,  in  the  N.W.  of  Ulster,  from  which 
the  river  Bann  issues,  forming  the  boundary  between  the  counties  of 
Londonderry  and  Antrim  in  its  course  northward.  The  legend  given  by 
Giraldus,  from  ancient  traditions,  of  the  iniuidation  which  formed  this 
Tast  lake,  is  recorded  by  Tigernach,  the  oldest  of  the  Irish  annalists  ; 
end  the  names  of  the  tribes  who  occupied  the  plain  so  covered  are  given 
in  ancient  documents.     The  date  of  the  catastrophe  is  fixed  to  a.d.  62. 


THE  LEGEND  OF  LOCH  NEAGH.  71 

descendiDg  the  lake,  and  was  in  shape  very  like  a  salmon, 
but  it  was  so  large  that  it  could  neither  be  dragged 
out  or  conveyed  whole,  and  therefore  was  carried  through 
the  province  cut  in  pieces.  It  is  reported  that  this  lake 
had  its  origin  in  an  extraordinary  calamity.  The  land  now 
covered  by  the  lake  was  inhabited  from  the  most  ancient 
times  by  a  tribe  sunk  in  vice,  and  more  especially  incorri- 
gibly addicted  to  the  sin  of  carnal  intercourse  with  beasts 
more  than  any  other  people  of  Ireland.  Now  there  was  a 
common  proverb  in  the  mouths  of  the  tribe,  that  whenever 
the  well-spring  of  that  country  was  left  uncovered  (for  out  of 
reverence  shown  to  it,  from  a  barbarous  superstition,  the 
spring  was  kept  covered  and  sealed),  it  would  immediately 
overflow  and  inundate  the  whole  province,  drowning  and  de- 
stroying all  the  population.  It  happened,  however,  on  some 
occasion  that  a  young  woman,  who  had  come  to  the  spring  to 
draw  water,  after  filling  her  pitcher,  but  before  she  had  closed 
the  well,  ran  in  great  haste  to  her  little  boy,  whom  she  heard 
crying  at  a  spot  not  far  from  the  spring,where  she  had  left  him. 
But  the  voice  of  the  people  is  the  voice  of  God ;  and  on  her 
way  back,  she  met  such  a  flood  of  water  from  the  spring 
that  it  swept  oS  her  and  the  boy,  and  the  inundation  was 
80  violent  that  they  both,  and  the  whole  tribe,  with  their 
cattle,  were  drowned  in  an  hour  in  this  partial  and  local 
deluge.  The  waters,  having  covered  the  whole  surface  of 
that  fertile  district,  were  converted  into  a  permanent  lake, 
as  if  the  Author  of  nature  judged  the  land  which  had  been 
witness  to  such  unnatural  bestialities  against  the  order  of 
nature  to  be  unfit  for  the  habitation  of  men,  either  then  or 
thereafter. 

A  not  improbable  confirmation  of  this  occurrence  is  found 
in  the  fact,  that  the  fishermen  in  that  lake  see  distinctly 
under  the  water,  in  calm  weather,  ecclesiastical  towers,^ 
which,  according  to  the  custom  of  the  country,  are  slender 
and  lofty,  and  moreover  round ;  and  they  frequently  point 
them  out  to  strangers  travelling  through  those  parts,  who 
wonder  what  could  have  caused  such  a  catastrophe.     In  a 

'  The  round  towers  of  Ireland  have  given  rise  to  a  miJtitude  of 
opinions,  and  to  many  very  wild  speculations  ;  but  the  most  recent  and 
careful  researches  seem  to  confirm  the  account  of  Giraldus,  and  to  sho-w 
that  they  were  erected  for  ecclesiastical  purposes,  and  at  a  comparatively 
late  period.  The  reader  is  referred  to  Mr.  Petrie's  able  work  on  tliif 
•abject. 


72  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OF  lEELAXD. 

manner  not  very  dissimilar,  and  for  the  same  detestable 
crime,  the  region  of  the  Pentapolis  was  converted  into 
a  bituminous  lake,  called  the  Dead,  or  Barren,  Sea;  be- 
cause neither  birds,  nor  fishes,  nor  anything  else  can  live 
there.  It  was  first  burnt  up  by  sulphureous  fire  sent  down 
from  heaven,  and  then  ovenvhelmed  with  an  inundation 
which  for  ever  covered  it ;  suffering  thus  for  the  enormity  of 
its  wickedness  a  double  fate. 

It  must,  however,  be  observed  that  the  river  before  men- 
tioned (the  Bann),  which  now  flows  out  of  the  lake  in  full 
stream,  had  its  source  in  the  aforesaid  spring  from  the 
time  of  Bartholanus,  who  lived  soon  after  the  flood,  when  it 
was  fed  also  by  other  rivulets,  and  took  its  course  through 
the  same  district,  but  with  a  far  less  volume  of  water ;  and 
it  was  one  of  the  nine  principal  rivers  of  Ireland. 

CHAPTEE  X. 

OF    A   FISH   WHICH    HAD    THREE    GOLDEK    TEETH. 

NoT^  long  before  the  time  when  the  English  came  over  to 
Ireland,  a  fish  was  found  at  Carlenford  (Carlingford),  in  Ul- 
Bter,  of  an  immense  size  and  an  uncommon  species.  Among 
its  other  prodigies,  it  is  reported  that  it  had  three  golden 
teeth  of  fifty  pounds  weight.  I  should  suppose  that  these 
teeth  had  rather  the  outward  appearance  of  gold  than  that 
they  were  really  such ;  and  that  the  colour  they  assumed 
was  a  presage  of  the  golden  times  of  the  future  conquest 
immediately  impending.  Moreover,  within  our  time  a  stag 
was  found  and  taken  in  Great  Britain,  in  the  forest  of  Dur- 
ham, all  the  teeth  of  which  were  of  a  golden  hue. 

^  Another  MS.  reads,  Non  Biennio  elapso,  not  two  years  ago.  Lynch, 
in  his  Cambrensis  Eversus,  chap,  vi.,  has  given  us  an  older  legend,  which 
was  perhaps  the  origin  of  this  story  of  Giraldus.  "  Not  two,  but  more 
than  four  hundred  years  before  the  English  invasion,  and  wliile  Fiaeha 
Dubhadrochtech,  the  son  of  Aid  Eonius,was  king  of  Ulster,  an  enormous 
whale  was  drifted  along  by  the  tide,  and  cast  up  on  the  shore  in  Ulster. 
It  had  three  teeth  of  gold,  one  of  which  was  given  by  Fiacha  as  wages 
to  some  men  whom  he  had  employed  in  erecting  a  bridge  over  the  rivers 
Fersus  and  Monidamh  ;  the  other  two  were  presented  to  the  church  to 
make  a  reliquary  case,  on  which  the  inhabitants  of  that  country  were 
accustomed  to  purge  or  bind  themselves  by  oath."  These  teeth  are 
itated  in  the  Irish  chronicles  to  have  weighed  fifty  ounces. 


A.   FLOATING   ISLAKD    FIXED    BY    i'lRE.  73 

CHAPTEE  XL 

or    THE    NORTHEEN    ISLANDS,    MOST    OF    AVIIICH    AEE    IN 
SUBJECTION    TO    THE    NORWEGIANS. 

In  the  Northern  ocean,  beyond  Ulster  and  GahAay,  there 
are  various  islands,  for  instance,  the  Orcades  and  Incliades, 
and  many  others,  of  nearly  all  of  which  the  Norwegians 
have  obtained  the  dominion  and  lordship.^  For,  although 
these  islands  lie  far  nearer  to  other  countries,  the  Norwe- 
gian people,  exploring  the  ocean,  are  addicted  to  piratical 
enterprises  far  more  than  any  other  nation.  Hence  all 
their  expeditions  and  wars  are  conducted  by  naval  arma- 
ments. It  should  be  observed  that  both  Orosius  and  Isidore 
reckon  that  there  are  thirty-three  islands  in  the  Orcades, 
of  which  twenty  were  uninhabited  and  thirteen  inhabited ; 
but  at  the  present  time  the  greater  part  are  inhabited. 

CHAPTEE  XII. 

or    AN    ISLAND    WHICH    AT    FIRST    FLOATED,    AND    AFTER- 
WARDS   WAS    FIRMLT    FIXED    BY    MEANS    OF    FIRE. 

Among  the  other  islands  is  one  newly  formed,  which  they 
call  the  phantom  isle,  which  had  its  origin  in  this  manner. 
One  calm  day,  a  large  mass  of  earth  rose  to  the  surface  of 
the  sea,  where  no  land  had  ever  been  seen  before,  to  the 
great  amazement  of  the  islanders  who  observed  it.  Some 
of  them  said  that  it  was  a  whale,  or  other  immense  sea- 
monster  ;  others,  remarking  that  it  continued  motionless, 
said,  "  No  ;  it  is  land."  In  order,  therefore,  to  reduce  their 
doubts  to  certainty,  some  picked  young  men  of  the  island 
determined  to  approach  nearer  the  spot  in  a  boat. 
When,  however,  they  came  so  near  to  it  that  they  thought 
they  should  go  on  shore,  the  island  sank  in  the  water  and 
entirely  vanished  from  sight.  The  next  day  it  re-appeared, 
and  again  mocked  the  same  youths  with  the  like  delusion. 
At  length,  upon  their  rowing  towards  it  on  the  third  day, 
they  followed  the  advice  of  an  older  man,  and  let  fly  an 

'  The  Orkney  and  Shetland  islands  •were  colonized  by  the  Norwegian 
vikings  in  the  ninth  century,  and  completely  subjugated  by  Harold 
Harfaager  in  895.  By  degrees  the  Norwegians  also  subdued  and  colo- 
nized the  Hebrides  and  all  the  islands  on  the  west  coast,  from  Lewis  to 
the  Isle  of  Man,  which  they  called  the  Sudrijar,  or  Southern  islands, 
from  their  situation  as  respects  the  Orkneys. 


74  THE  TOPOGBAPHT  OF  IBELaND. 

arrow,  barbed  witb  red-hot  steel,  against  tlie  island ;  and 
then  landing,  found  it  stationary  and  habitable.  This 
adds  one  to  the  many  proofs  that  fire  is  the  greatest  of 
enemies  to  every  sort  of  phantom ;  insomuch  that  those 
who  have  seen  apparitions  fall  into  a  swoon  as  soon  as  they 
are  sensible  of  the  brightness  of  fire.  Por  fire,  both  from 
its  position  and  nature,  is  the  noblest  of  elements,  being  a 
witness  of  the  secrets  of  the  heavens.  The  sky  is  fiery ; 
the  planets  are  fiery ;  the  busb  burnt  with  fire,  but  was 
not  consumed ;  the  Holy  Grhost  sat  upon  the  apostles 
in  tongues  of  fire. 

CHAPTEE  XIII. 

OF  ICELAND,  WHICH  IS  INHABITED  BY  A  PEOPLE  OF  FEW 
WOBDS,  WHO  SPEAK  THE  TBUTH,  AND  NEYEE  TAKE  AN 
OATH. 

Iceland,  the  largest  of  the  northern  islands,  lies  at  the 
distance  of  three  natural  days'  sail  from  Ireland,  towards 
the  north.  It  is  inhabited  by  a  race  of  people  who  use 
very  few  words,  and  speak  the  truth.  They  seldom  converse, 
and  then  briefly,  and  take  no  oaths,  because  they  do  not  know 
what  it  is  to  lie  ;  for  they  detest  nothing  more  than  falsehood. 
Among  this  people  the  offices  of  king  and  priest  are  united 
in  the  same  person.  Their  prince  is  their  pontiff.  Their 
bishop  performs  the  functions  of  government  as  well  as 
of  the  priesthood.^  Here  never  or  very  seldom  lightnings 
flash,  thunder-bolts  fall,  or  the  crash  of  thunder  terrifies 
But  they  are  troubled  with  another,  and  still  more  grievous 
calamity ;  for  once  in  a  year,  or  two  years,  a  fiery  stream 

'  The  chiefs,  or  petty  kings,  of  the  territories  into  which  Norway  was 
divided,  before  the  reign  of  Harald  Harfaager,  in  the  ninth  century, 
united  the  functions  of  civil  and  military  government  with  the  sacer- 
dotal office,  and  continued  to  exercise  the  same  joint  authority  in 
their  colonies  in  Iceland.  After  the  introduction  of  Christianity,  the 
bishops  succeeded  to  the  spiritual,  and  in  some  measure  sliared  the 
temporal  authority  of  the  Godar,  or  pontiff-chiefs.  In  925,  the  Ice- 
landers, in  their  Al-Thing^  or  national  assembly,  enacted  a  very  strict 
code  of  laws,  containing  many  excellent  regulations,  one  especially  pro- 
viding for  the  maintenance  of  the  poor ;  but  it  would  appear  that  the 
people  were  more  distinguished  for  legal  chicanery  than  for  the  vir- 
tues attributed  to  them  by  Griraldus. — See  the  Supplement  to  Mallefi 
Northern  Antiquities  chaps,  ii.  and  iii. 


A  "WHIELPOOL    I?f    THE    SEA.  75 

bursts  forth  in  some  quarter  of  the  island,  boiling  up  like  a 
whirlpool,  and  the  hissing  flood,  rushing  violently  on,  burns 
up  whatever  lies  in  its  way.  But  whether  this  fire  has  its 
origin  casually,  from  below  or  above,  is  not  known  with 
any  certainty.^  Grerfalcons  and  goss-hawks  are  bred  in  the 
island  and  exported.^ 

CHAPTER  XIY. 

OF    A   WHIELPOOL    IN    THE    SEA   WHICH    STICKS    IN    SHIPS. 

Not  far  from  the  islands,  towards  the  north,  there  is  an 
astonishing  whirlpool  in  the  sea,  towards  which  there  is  a 
set  current  of  the  waves  from  all  quarters,  until,  pouring 
themselves  into  nature's  secret  recesses,  they  are  swallowed 
up,  as  it  were,  in  the  abyss.  Should  a  vessel  chance  to  pass 
in  that  direction,  it  is  caught  and  drawn  along  by  the  force 
of  the  waves,  and  sucked  by  the  vortex  without  chance  of 
escape.^  There  are  four  of  these  whirlpools  in  the  ocean, 
described  by  philosophers  as  existing  in  the  four  different 
quarters  of  the  world  ;  whence  it  has  been  conjectured  that 
the  currents  of  the  sea,  as  well  as  the  winds,  are  regulated 
by  fixed  principles. 

'  Griraldus  seeras  to  have  blended  in  this  description  the  phenomena, 
of  which  he  may  have  heard  a  confused  accomit,  of  the  volcanic  erup- 
tions and  boihng  fountains,  the  Geysers,  of  Iceland.  See  Henderson's 
Journal  of  a  Eesidence  in  Iceland,  pp.  74  and  229 ;  and  Sir  William 
Hooker's  Tour  in  Iceland,  vol.  i.  pp.  128  and  149. 

♦  The  gerfalcon  was  in  great  request  in  times  when  falconry  was  one 
of  the  principal  sports  of  our  ancestors ;  and  Iceland  had  always  the 
reputation  of  furnishing  the  most  generous  breed.  Those  whose  plu- 
mage was  white  were  most  highly  esteemed,  and  bore  a  great  price. 
Gerfalcons  do  not  appear  to  have  been  ever  found  wild  in  Britain,  or 
in  Ireland.  See  before.  Distinction  I.,  c.  18.  They  are  still  common 
in  Norway.  The  goss-hawk  is  a  native  of  England,  but  they  are  now 
rare,  though  plentiful  in  Scotland. 

3  Gh-aldus  speaks  of  the  maelstrom,  a  whirlpool  in  the  northern 
ocean,  on  the  coast  of  Norway,  between  the  island  of  Wero  and  the 
southern  part  of  the  Loifoden  island.  Some  Latin  winters  fancifully 
called  it  umbilicus  maris,  the  navel  of  the  sea  ;  while  our  author  de- 
scribes the  vortex  as  secreta  natures  penetralia.  This  whirlpool,  for- 
merly painted  in  the  most  frightful  colours,  is  only  a  strong  current  of 
the  sea,  which  roars  loudly,  as  it  rises  eveiy  day  during  six  hours,  after 
which  it  is  more  calm  for  the  same  period. 


76  TflE  TOPOGRAPHY  OF  IRELAND. 

CHAPTER  XY. 

OP  THE  ISLE  OF  MAN,  WHICH,  ON  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  VE- 
NOMOUS REPTILES  IT  HARBOURS,  IS  CONSIDERED  TO 
BELONG   TO    BRITAIN. 

There  is  an  island,  not  tlie  least  of  the  smaller  islands, 
which  is  now  called  Man,  but  had  in  old  times  the  name  of 
Ewania,  and  lies,  they  say,  in  the  mid-channel  between  the 
northern  shores  of  Ireland  and  Britain.  Which  country  it 
rightly  belonged  to  was  a  matter  of  great  doubt  among 
the  ancients ;  but  the  controversy  was  settled  in  this  way. 
Since  the  island  allowed  venomous  reptiles,  brought  over 
for  the  sake  of  experiment,  to  exist  in  it,  it  was  agreed  by 
common  consent  that  it  belonged  to  Britain.' 

CHAPTEE  XYI. 

that  ISLANDS  WERE  FORMED  LONG  AFTER  THE  FLOOD, 
NOT  SUDDENLY,  BUT  BY  DEGREES,  FROM  ALLUVIAL 
MATTER. 

Whether  islands  were  formed  before  the  flood,  or  during 
the  flood,  when  the  parents  of  all  living  creatures  were  shut 
up  in  the  ark,  there  seems  reason  to  doubt  how  noxious  ani- 
mals, and  especially  venomous  reptiles,  replenished  the  re- 
moter islands,  as  it  is  quite  clear  that  no  sane  person  would 
ever  have  wished  to  transport  them  thither.  With  respect 
to  this,  it  may  be  reasonably  suggested  that  long  after  the 
flood,  when  living  things  multiplied,  and  the  earth  was 
replenished  with  them  in  all  parts,  the  islands  were  formed 
not  by  any  violent  or  sudden  action,  but  gradually  by  allu- 
vial deposits.'^ 

^  Whatever  may  be  thought  of  this  expei'iment  to  determine  the 
relative  geographical  position  of  the  Isle  of  Man,  we  know  that  the 
island  had  au  intimate  political  union  with  Ireland  long  before  its 
sovereignty  became  a  dependency  on  Britain.  Colonized  by  the  Nor- 
wegians in  the  eighth  and  ninth  centuries,  and  governed  by  a  succession 
of  independent  kings,  nominally,  perhaps,  tributary  to  Norway,  the 
connection  between  the  kings  of  Man  and  the  Scandinavian  kings  of 
Dublin  was  so  close  in  the  eleventh  century  that  either  the  same,  or,  at 
all  events,  nearly  related  kings  reigned  both  in  Dublin  and  Man. 

2  Although  islands  and  deltas  are  formed  by  diluvial  deposits  at  the 
mouths  of  rivers,  the  theory  that  such  islands  as  those  on  the  north 
coast  of  Scotland,  of  which  Giraldus  is  treating,  had  such  origin,  is  only 
•uited  to  the  state  of  science  in  the  times  of  our  author.     These  iiJaiids 


THULE,    THE    Wl^STEllX    I3LAXP.  77 


CHAPTEE  XYII. 

OP  THULE,  THE  WESTER]!f  ISLAJS'D,  YERY  CELEBRATED  AMOKG 
THE  ORIENTALS,  THOUGH  IT  BE  TOTALLY  UNKNOWN  TO 
THE  PEOPLE  OF  THE  WEST. 

Thule,  which  is  said  to  be  the  furthest  of  the  "Western 
islands,  is  very  remarkable  for  having  been  well  known 
among  the  Orientals  both  in  name  and  position,  although 
entirely  unknown  to  the  people  of  the  West.'  Yirgil  says 
to  Augustus : — 

" et  tibi  serviat  ultima  Thule." 

"  And  furthest  Thule  own  thy  rule." 
And  Solinus  mentions  Thule  as  the  furthest  among  the 
islands  which  surround  Britain.  He  says  that  at  the 
summer  solstice  there  is  no  night  there,  and  at  the  winter 
solstice  no  day ;  and  both  Solinus  and  Isidore  relate  that 
beyond  Thule  lies  the  thick  and  frozen  ocean, 

Solinus  places  Thule,  the  most  remote  islknd  in  the  ocean, 
between  the  JSTorthern  and  AYestern  regions  beyond  Britain, 
and  says  it  derives  its  name  from  the  sun,  because  the  sun 
causes  the  summer  solstice  there,  and  beyond  it  there  is  no 
day.  But  this  island  is  so  unknown  to  the  people  of  the 
West,  that  it  appears  that  no  one  of  the  western  or  northern 
islands  have  the  same  name  or  character.  We  find,  how- 
ever, that  in  the  furthest  parts  of  the  Arctic  regions,  the 
sun  in  summer  is  seen  by  the  inhabitants  revolving  con- 
stantly for  several  nights  about  the  edge  of  the  earth,  but 

were  more  probably  severed  from  the  mainland  by  the  action  of  the 
strong  currents  and  the  storms  of  the  Northern  Ocean,  through  a  pro- 
cess of  disintegration,  which  is  still  going  on.  See  Lyell's  Elements  of 
G-eology,  pp.  299 — 301.  Giraldus  raises  in  this  chapter  another  curious 
question,  which,  on  received  opinions,  we  are  as  little  able  to  solve  as 
he  was,  how,  not  to  say  venomous  creatures  only,  but  all  animals 
replenished  {impleverunt)  not  only  the  remoter  islands,  but,  we  may 
add,  continents. 

'  It  is  a  question  fuU  of  doubt,  to  what  island  the  ancients  applied 
the  name  of  Thule,  or  rathei',  it  is  probable  that  at  different  times  they 
applied  it  to  different  islands,  for  they  seem  to  have  wished  to  indicate 
by  it  the  most  distant  land  towards  the  North-west  of  which  they  had 
any  intelhgence.  Some  have  supposed  that  it  was  Iceland ;  others, 
that  it  was  some  one  of  the  most  distant  islands  off  the  northern  coast 
of  Scotland  ;  and  others,  again,  have  held  that  by  Thule  the  Komam 
meant  Norway. 


78  THE  TOPOGEArHY  OF  lEELAFD. 

above  the  horizon  ;  and  when  it  returns  from  the  constella» 
tion  of  Capricorn,  as  though  under  the  dark  confines  of  the 
Antarctic  pole,  the  cheerful  beams  of  that  luminary  vanish 
during  the  same  space  of  days.  Either,  therefore,  Thule  is 
an  island  as  fabulous  as  it  was  famous,  or  it  must  be  looked 
for  in  the  most  remote  and  distant  recesses  of  the  northern 
ocean,  far  off  under  the  Arctic  pole.  Hence  Orosius, 
speaking  with  more  certainty  than  others  respecting  doubt- 
ful points,  says  that  Thule,  which  is  separated  on  all  sides 
by  boundless  space  from  the  rest  of  the  world,  and  faces 
towards  the  south  in  the  midst  of  the  ocean,  is  known  but 
to  few  persons,  and  to  them  imperfectly.  Augustine,  how- 
ever, in  his  twenty  first  book,  De  Civitate  Dei,  says  that 
Thule,  an  island  in  India,  is  to  be  preferred  to  other  lands, 
because  there  the  trees  which  it  produces  keep  their 
leaves  all  the  w^hole  year  round.  So  that  it  appears  to  be 
situated  in  India.  But  he  was  led  astray  by  a  doubtful 
meaning,  which  is  more  apparent  than  real ;  for  Tylis  is 
the  name  of  the  one,  Tyle  (Thule)  of  the  other.  Hence 
Isidore  also  says,  Tylis  is  an  island  of  India,  where  the 
leaves  are  always  green.  And,  again,  Solinus  says,  Tylis  is 
an  island  in  India,'  which  bears  palms,  produces  oil,  and 
abounds  in  vines,  and  it  excels  all  lands  in  the  miracle 
that  every  tree  which  grows  there  is  clothed  with  perpetual 
verdure. 

CHAPTEE  XYIII. 

OF    THE    GIAIfTS'    DAl^^CE,    WHICH   WAS    TEANSFEEEED    FEOM 
lEELAND    TO    BEITAIN. 

In  ancient  times  there  was  in  Ireland  a  remarkable  pile  of 
stones,  called  the  Griants'  Dance,^  because  the  giants  brought 
it  from  the  furthest  parts  of  Africa  into  Ireland,  and  set  it 
up,  partly  by  main  strength,  partly  by  artificial  contrivances, 
in  an  extraordinary  way,  on  the  plains  of  Kildare,  near 
Naas.  Hence,  certain  stones  exactly  resembling  the  rest, 
and  erected  in  the  same  manner,  are  seen  there  to  the  pre- 

1  Pliny,  b.  xii.  c.  11,  mentions  an  island  called  Tylos  in  the  Persian 
Gulf ;  and  Arrian,  b.  vii.,  one  of  the  same  name  in  the  Indian  Ocean. 

2  "Chorea  Gigantum,"  from  xopoc,  a  dance,  or  company  of  dancers 
or  singers.  Griraldus  refers,  of  course,  to  the  celebrated  monument  on 
Salisbury  Plain,  called  Stonehenge,  which  the  old  legends  represent  aa 
having  been  brought  from  Ireland. 


MEN   TBINSFOEMED    TO    W0LVE3.  79 

■ent  day.  ]t  is  woDderlul  how  these  stones,  in  such  num- 
bers and  of  such  vast  size,  could  ever  be  collected  together 
on  one  spot,  and  raised  upright,  as  well  as  by  w^hat  mecha- 
nical contrivance  others,  not  inferior  in  dimensions,  were 
placed  as  lintels  on  top  of  the  other  massive  and  lofty  piles, 
80  that  they  appear  suspended,  and,  as  it  were,  hanging  in 
the  air,  rather  by  some  artificial  contrivance  than  resting  on 
the  columns  supporting  them.  According  to  the  British  His- 
tory,' Aurelius  Ambrosius,  king  of  Britain,  caused  these 
stones  to  be  transported  from  Ireland  to  Britain  by  the 
divine  aid  of  Merlin ;  and  in  order  to  leave  some  memorial 
of  so  great  a  deed,  they  were  erected  on  the  spot  where,  be- 
fore that  time,  the  flower  of  the  youth  of  Britain  died  by  the 
concealed  knives  of  the  Saxons,  who  fell  upon  them  and  slew 
them,  under  the  guise  of  peace,  with  their  treacherous 
weapons. 

CHAPTEE  XIX. 

OF    THE    PRODIGIES    OF    OIJE    TIMES,  AND    FIRST    OF  A  WOLF 
WHICH    CONVERSED    WITH   A   PRIEST.^ 

I  NOW  proceed  to  relate  some  wonderful  occurrences  which 
have  happened  within  our  times.  About  three  years  be- 
fore the  arrival  of  earl  John  in  Ireland,  it  chanced  that 
a  priest,  who  was  journeying  from  Ulster  towards 
Meath,  was  benighted  in  a  certain  wood  on  the  borders 
of  Meath.  While,  in  company  with  only  a  young  lad, 
he  was  watching  by  a  fire  which  he  had  kindled  under  the 
branches  of  a  spreading  tree,  lo  !  a  wolf  came  up  to  them, 
and  immediately  addressed  them  to  this  effect :  "  E-est  se- 
cure, and  be  not  afraid,  for  there  is  no  reason  you  should 
fear,  where  no  fear  is  !*'  The  travellers  being  struck  with 
astonishment  and  alarm,  the  wolf  added  some   orthodox 

'  By  "  the  British  History,"  Giraldus  of  course  means  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth,  from  whom,  in  fact,  this  account  of  the  removal  of  the 
Btones  from  Ireland  to  England  is  taken.  See  Geoffrey's  British  His- 
tory, book  viii.  chapters  x.  to  xii.  ^  The  belief  in  men  who 
could  transform  themselves  into  wolves,  was  a  very  prevalent  super- 
stition, not  only  in  the  middle  ages,  but  it  continued  in  force  to  much 
more  recent  times,  and  formed  part  of  the  witchcraft  superstitions, 
from  which  plenty  of  stories  like  tliis  told  by  Giraldus  might  be  col- 
lected. In  England,  where  wolves  have  long  disappeared,  the  witchei 
of  later  times  turned  themselves  into  hares. 


80  THE    TOPOGBAPHT   OF    lEELANT). 

words  referring  to  God.  The  priest  then  implored  him, 
and  adjured  him  by  Almighty  Grod  and  faith  in  the  Trinity, 
not  to  Imrt  them,  but  to  inform  them  what  creature  it  waa 
that  in  the  shape  of  a  beast  uttered  human  words.  The 
wolf,  after  giving  catholic  replies  to  all  questions,  added  at 
last :  "  There  are  two  of  us,  a  man  and  a  woman,  natives 
of  Ossory,  who,  through  the  curse  of  one  Natalis,  saint  and 
abbot,  are  compelled  every  seven  years  to  put  off  the  human 
form,  and  depart  from  the  dwellings  of  men.  Quitting 
entirely  the  human  form,  we  assume  that  of  wolves.  At  the 
end  of  the  seven  years,  if  they  chance  to  survive,  two  others 
being  substituted  in  their  places,  they  return  to  their  coun- 
try and  their  former  shape.  And  now,  she  who  is  my  part- 
ner in  this  visitation  lies  dangerously  sick  not  far  from 
hence,  and,  as  she  is  at  the  point  of  death,  I  beseech  you, 
inspired  by  divine  charity,  to  give  her  the  consolations  of 
your  priestly  office." 

At  this  word  the  priest  followed  the  wolf  trembling,  as 
he  led  the  way  to  a  tree  at  no  great  distance,  in  the  hol- 
low of  which  he  beheld  a  she-wolf,  who  under  that  shape  was 
pouring  forth  human  sighs  and  groans.  On  seeing  the 
priest,  having  saluted  him  with  human  courtesy,  she  gave 
thanks  to  God,  who  in  this  extremity  had  vouchsafed  to 
visit  her  with  such  consolation.  She  then  received  from 
the  priest  all  the  rites  of  the  church  duly  performed,  as 
far  as  the  last  communion.  This  also  she  importunately 
demanded,  earnestly  supplicating  him  to  complete  his  good 
offices  by  giving  her  the  viaticum.  The  priest  stoutly 
asserting  that  he  was  not  provided  with  it,  the  he-wolf,  who 
had  withdrawn  to  a  short  distance,  came  back  and  pointed 
out  a  small  missal-book,  containing  some  consecrated  wafers, 
which  the  priest  carried  on  his  journey,  suspended  from  his 
neck,  under  his  garment,  after  the  fashion  of  the  country. 
He  then  intreated  him  not  to  deny  them  the  gift  of  God, 
and  the  aid  destined  for  them  b}^  Divine  Providence  ;  and, 
to  remove  all  doubt,  using  his  claw  for  a  hand,  he  tore  off 
the  skin  of  the  she-wolf,  from  the  head  down  to  the  navel, 
folding  it  back.  Thus  she  immediately  presented  the  form 
of  an  old  woman.  The  priest,  seeing  this,  and  compelled 
by  his  fear  more  than  his  reason,  gave  the  communion ;  the 
recipient  having  earnestly  implored  it,  and  devoutly  par- 


MEN  TEANSFORMED  TO  WOLTES.  81 

taking  of  it.     Immediately  afterwards,  the  he- wolf  rolled 
back  the  skin,  and  fitted  it  to  its  original  form. 

These  rites  having  been  duly,  rather  than  rightly,  per- 
formed, the  he-wolf  gave  them  his  company  during  the 
whole  night  at  their  little  fire,  behaving  more  like  a  man 
than  a  beast.  AVhen  morning  came,  he  led  them  out  of 
the  vrood,  and,  leaving  the  priest  to  pursue  his  journey, 
pointed  out  to  him  the  direct  road  for  a  long  distance.  At 
his  departure,  he  also  gave  him  many  thanks  for  the  benefit 
he  had  conferred,  promising  him  still  greater  returns  of 
gratitude,  if  the  Lord  should  call  him  back  from  his  present 
exile,  two  parts  of  which  he  had  already  completed.  At 
the  close  of  their  conversation,  the  priest  inquired  of  the 
wolf  whether  the  hostile  race  which  had  now  landed  in  the 
island  would  continue  there  for  the  time  to  come,  and  be 
long  established  in  it.  To  which  the  wolf  replied  : — "  Eor 
the  sins  of  our  nation,  and  their  enormous  vices,  the  anger 
of  the  Lord,  falling  on  an  evil  generation,  hath  given  them 
into  the  hands  of  their  enemies.  Therefore,  as  long  as  this 
foreign  race  shall  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and 
walk  in  his  ways,  it  will  be  secure  and  invincible  •  but  if,  as 
the  downward  path  to  illicit  pleasures  is  easy,  and  nature  is 
prone  to  follow  vicious  examples,  this  people  shall  chance, 
from  living  among  us,  to  adopt  our  depraved  habits,  doubt- 
less they  will  provoke  the  divine  vengeance  on  themselves 


The  like  judgment  is  recorded  in  Leviticus : — "  All  these 
abominations  have  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  done,  which 
were  before  you,  and  the  land  is  defiled.  Beware,  there- 
fore, that  the  land  spue  not  you  out  also,  when  ye  defile  it, 
as  it  spi.ed  out  the  nation  which  was  before  you."  ^  All 
this  was  afterwards  brought  to  pass,  first  by  the  Chaldeans, 
and  then  by  the  Eomans.  Likewise  it  is  written  in  Eccle- 
siasticus  : — "  The  kingdom  is  made  over  from  one  nation  to 
another,  by  reason  of  their  unjust  and  injurious  deeds,  their 
proud  words,  and  divers  deceits." 

It   chanced,   about    tw^o   years   afterwards,    that    I   was 

passing  through  Meath,  at  the  time  when  the  bishop  of 

that  land  had  convoked  a  synod,  having  also  invited  the 

•ssistance  of  the  neighbouring  bishops  and  abbots,  in  ordei 

1  Levit.  xviii.  27,  28. 

O 


82  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OF  IRELAND. 

to  Ijave  their  joint  counsels  on  what  was  to  be  done  in  the 
aHair  wliich  had  come  to  his  knowledge  by  the  priest's  con- 
fession. The  bishop,  hearing  tliat  1  was  passing  through 
those  parts,  sent  me  a  message  by  two  of  his  clerks,  re- 
questing me,  if  possible,  to  be  personally  present  w^hen  a 
matter  of  so  much  importance  was  under  consideration ; 
but  if  I  could  not  attend,  he  begged  me  at  least  to  signify 
my  opinion  in  writing.  The  clerks  detailed  to  me  all 
the  circumstances,  which  indeed  I  had  heard  before  from 
other  persons ;  and,  as  I  was  prevented  by  urgent  business 
from  being  present  at  the  synod,  I  made  up  for  my  absence 
by  giving  them  the  benefit  of  my  advice  in  a  letter.  The 
bishop  and  synod,  yielding  to  it,  ordered  the  priest  to  ap- 
pear before  the  pope  with  letters  from  them,  setting  forth 
what  had  occurred,  with  the  priest's  confession,  to  which 
instrument  the  bishops  and  abbots  who  were  present  at  the 
synod  affixed  their  seals. 

It  cannot  be  disputed,  but  must  be  believed  with  the 
most  assured  faith,  that  the  divine  nature  assumed  human 
nature  for  the  salvation  of  the  world ;  while  in  the  present 
case,  by  no  less  a  miracle,  we  find  that  at  Grod's  bidding,  to 
exhibit  his  power  and  righteous  judgment,  human  nature 
assumed  that  of  a  wolf     But  is  such  an  animal  to  be  called 
a  brute  or  a  man  ?     A  rational  animal  appears  to  be  far 
above  the  level  of  a  brute ;  but  who  will  venture  to  assign 
a  quadruped,  which  inclines  to  the  earth,  and  is  not  a  laugh- 
ing animal,  to  the  species  of  man  ?   Again,  if  any  one  should 
slay  this  animal,  would  he  be  called  a  homicide  ?   "We  reply, 
tiiat  divine  miracles  are  not  to  be  made  the  subjects  of  dis- 
putation by  human  reason,  but  to  be  admired.     However, 
Augustine,  in  the  16th  book  of  his  Civit.  Dei,  chapter  8,  in 
speaking  of  some  monsters  of  the  human  race,  born  in  the 
East,  some  of  which  had  the  heads  of  dogs,  others  had  no 
heads  at  all,  their  eyes  being  placed  in  their  breasts,  and 
others  had  various  deformities,  raises  the  question  whether 
these  were  really  men,  descended  from  the  first  parents  of 
mankind.    At  last,  he  concludes,  "  AVe  must  think  the  same 
of  them  as  we  do  of  those  monstrous  births  in  the  human 
species  of  which  we  often  hear;  and  true  reason  declares 
that  whatever  answers  to  the  definition  of  man,  as  a  rational 
and  mortal  animal,  whatever  be  its  form,  is  to  be  considered 
a  man."     The  same  author,  in  the  18th  book  of  the  Civit, 


MEX    TRAXSFOEMED    TO    ASSES.  83 

Dei,  chapter  18,  refers  to  tlie  Arcadians,  wlio,  chosen  by 
lot,  swam  across  a  lake  and  were  there  changed  into  wolves, 
living  with  wild  beasts  of  the  same  species  iu  the  deserts 
of  that  country.  If,  however,  they  did  not  devour  human 
flesh,  after  nine  years  they  swam  back  across  the  lake,  and 
re-assumed  the  human  form.  Having  thus  further  treated 
of  various  transformations  of  man  into  the  shape  of  wolves, 
he  at  length  adds,  "  I  myself,  at  the  time  I  was  in  Italy, 
heard  it  said  of  some  district  in  those  parts,  that  there  the 
stable-women,  who  had  learnt  magical  arts,  were  wont  to 
give  something  to  travellers  in  their  cheese  which  trans- 
formed them  into  beasts  of  burthen,  so  that  they  carried 
all  sorts  of  burdens,  and  after  they  had  performed  their 
tasks  resumed  their  own  forms.'  Meanwhile,  their  minds 
did  not  become  bestial,  but  remained  human  and  rational." 
So  in  the  Book  which  Apuleius  wrote,  with  the  title  of 
the  Golden  Ass,  he  tells  us  that  it  happened  to  himself,  on 
taking  some  potion,  to  be  changed  into  an  ass,  retaining  his 
human  mind. 

In  our  own  time,  also,  we  have  seen  persons  who,  by  magi- 
cal arts,  turned  any  substance  about  them  into  fat  pigs,  as 
they  appeared  (but  they  were  always  red),  and  sold  them 
in  the  markets.  However,  they  disappeared  as  soon  as  they 
crossed  any  water,  returning  to  their  real  nature  ;  and  with 
whatever  care  they  were  kept,  their  assumed  form  did  not 
last  beyond  three  days.  It  has  also  been  a  frequent  com- 
plaint, from  old  times  as  well  as  in  the  present,  that  certain 
hags  in  Wales,  as  well  as  in  Ireland  and  Scotland,  changed 
tliemselves  into  the  sh:ipe  of  hares,  that,  sucking  teats 
under  this  counterfeit  form,  they  might  stealthily  rob  other 
people's  milk.  AYe  agree,  then,  with  Augustine,  that  nei- 
ther demons  nor  wicked  men  can  either  create  or  really 
change  their  natures;  but  those  whom  Grod  has  created 
can,  to  outward  appearance,  by  his  permission,  become 
transformed,  so  that  they  appear  to  be  what  they  are  not ; 
the  senses  of  men  being  deceived  and  laid  asleep  by  a 
strange  illusion,  so  that  tilings  are  not  seen  as  they  actually 

'  Similar  stories  are  told  by  other  old  writers  ;  see  William  of 
Malmesbury,  book  ii.  ch.  10.  It  is  rather  amusing  to  find  Giraldus 
belicTing  that,  in  the  metamorphosis  of  the  ass,  Apvdeius  was  giving  a 
bona  fide  relation  of  what  had  happened  to  himself. 

&  2 


84  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF    IRELAND. 

exist,  but  are  strangely  drawn  by  the  power  of  some  pban- 
torn  or  magical  incantation  to  rest  their  eyes  on  unreal  and 
fictitious  forms. 

It  is,  however,  believed  as  an  undoubted  truth,  that  the 
Almighty  Grod,  who  is  the  Creator  of  natures,  can,  when  he 
pleases,  change  one  into  another,  either  for  vindicating  his 
judgments,  or  exhibiting  his  divine  power ;  as  in  the  case  of 
Lot's  wife,  who,  looking  back  contrary  to  her  lord's  com- 
mand, was  turned  into  a  pillar  of  salt ;  and  as  the  water 
was  changed  into  wine ;  or  that,  the  nature  within  remain- 
ing the  same,  he  can  transform  the  exterior  only,  as  is  plain 
from  the  examples  before  given. 

Of  that  apparent  change  of  the  bread  into  the  body  of 
Christ  (which  I  ought  not  to  call  apparent  only,  but  with 
more  truth  transubstantial,  because,  while  the  outward  ap- 
pearance remains  the  same,  the  substance  only  is  changed), 
I  have  thought  it  safest  not  to  treat ;  its  comprehension 
being  far  beyond  the  powers  of  the  human  intellect. 

CHAPTEE  XX. 

OF    A    WOMAN   WHO    HAD    A    BEAED,    AND    A    HAIEX    CREST 
AND    MANE    ON    HER    BACK. 

DuYENALD,  king  of  Limerick,  had  a  woman  with  a  beard 
down  to  her  navel,  and,  also,  a  crest  like  a  colt  of  a  year 
old,  which  reached  from  the  top  of  her  neck  down  her  back- 
bone, and  was  covered  with  hair.  The  woman,  thus  re- 
markable for  two  monstrous  deformities,  was,  however,  not 
an  hermaphrodite,  but  in  other  respects  had  the  parts  of  a 
woman ;  and  she  constantly  attended  the  court,  an  object  of 
ridicule  as  well  as  of  wonder.  The  fact  of  her  spine  being 
covered  with  hair  neither  determined  her  gender  to  be  male 
or  female ;  and  in  wearing  a  long  beard  she  followed  the 
customs  of  her  country,  though  it  was  unnatural  in  her. 
Also,  within  our  time,  a  woman  was  seen  attending  the  court 
in  Connaught,  who  partook  of  the  nature  of  both  sexes,  and 
was  an  hermaphrodite.  On  the  right  side  of  her  face  she 
had  a  long  and  thick  beard,  which  covered  both  sides  of  her 
lips  to  the  middle  of  her  chin,  like  a  man ;  on  the  left,  lier 
lips  an.d  chin  were  smooth  and  hairless,  like  a  woman. 


AS   ASlliXJj   \VniCH    WAS   HALF-DX,   HALF-MAN.  85 

CHAPTEE  XXI. 

OJP    AN^   AiflilAL   WHICH   tTAS    HALF-OX,    HA.LF-Ma:N^. 

In  Wicklow  (Gwylvingelo),  at  the  time  Maurice  Fitzgerald 
held  possession  of  that  territory  and  castle,  there  was  seen 
a  man-monster,  if  he  may  be  called  a  man,  the  whole  of 
whose  body  was  human,  except  the  extremities,  which  were 
those  of  an  ox;  they  having  the  shape  of  hoofs,  from  the 
joints  by  which  the  hands  are  connected  with  the  arms  and 
the  feet  with  the  legs.  His  whole  head  was  deformed  by 
baldness,  there  being  no  hair  either  behind  or  before ;  but 
instead  of  it  there  w^as  down  in  a  few  places.  He  had  large 
eyes,  round  and  of  the  colour  of  those  of  an  ox.  His  face 
was  flat  down  to  the  mouth,  there  being  no  protuberance  of 
the  nose,  but  only  two  orifices  to  serve  for  nostrils.  He  could 
not  speak,  the  sounds  he  uttered  resembling  the  lowing  of 
an  ox.  He  frequented  for  some  time  the  court  of  INIaurice, 
coming  daily  to  dinner ;  and  the  food  which  was  served  he 
took  up  between  the  fissures  of  his  cloven  hoofs,  which  he 
used  as  hands.  He  was  at  last  secretly  put  to  death,  a  fate 
of  w^hich  he  was  not  deserving,  in  consequence  of  the  jibes 
with  which  the  young  men  about  the  castle  assailed  the 
natives  of  the  country  for  begetting  such  monisters  by  inter- 
course with  cows. 

It  is  a  fact,  that  shortly  before  the  arrival  of  the  English 
in  the  island,  a  cow  gave  birth  to  a  man-calf,  the  fruit  of  an 
union  between  a  man  and  a  cow,  in  the  mountains  of  Grlen- 
dalough  (Grlindelachan),  that  tribe  being  especially  addicted 
to  such  abominations  ;  so  that  you  may  be  perfectly  con- 
vinced that  there  is  another  instance  of  a  progeny  half-ox 
half- man,  half-man  half-ox.  This  creature,  having  followed 
his  mother  with  the  rest  of  the  calves,  sucking  her  teats 
for  nearly  a  year,  was  afterwards  admitted  into  human 
society,  as  it  had  more  of  the  man  in  it  than  of  the  beast. 
Shall  the  slayer  of  this  creature  be  called  a  homicide  ?  "Who 
can  associate  such  a  monster,  an  irrational  animal,  wanting 
altogether  speech  as  well  as  reason,  with  the  family  of  ra- 
tional beings?  On  the  other  hand,  who  can  disallow  the 
claims  of  a  creature  which  stands  erect,  laughs,  and  goes  on 
two  feet,  to  belong  to  the  1  uman  species  ?  Is  it  not  true  tliat 


86  THE    TOrOGRAPirY    OP    IRELAND. 

*' Os  homiiii  sublime  declit  cuejuiricjue  tuen 

Jiissit  ?" 
In  nature's  mould,  to  man  the  stamp  is  given. 
Which  lifts  his  face  from  earth  and  points  his  eyes  to  hcaven- 

But  nature's  eccentricities  of  this  kind  must  be  excused, 
and  lier  judgments  are  rather  to  be  dreaded,  than  made  the 
subject  of  discussion  and  disputation. 

CHAPTER  XXII. 

OF  AN  ANIMAL  ENGENDERED  BY  A  STAG  AND  A  COW. 

AYiTHiN  our  time,  a  stag  bad  intercourse  with  a  cow, 
at  Chester,  in  Britain,  and  their  offspring  was  a  doe-calf. 
In  the  fore-parts,  as  far  as  the  groin,  it  had  entirely  the  form 
of  a  cow;  but  the  thighs,  tail,  hind-legs,  and  feet  were 
exactly  those  of  a  deer,  with  the  same  fur  and  colour. 
Having  more  of  the  nature  of  cattle  about  it  than  of  a  wild 
animal,  it  found  its  place  in  the  herd. 

CHAPTER  XXIIT. 

OF    A    GOAT    WHICH    HAD    INTERCOURSE    WITH    A   WOMAN. 

EoDERTC,  king  of  Connaught,  had  a  white  tame  goat,  re- 
markable for  its  flowing  hair  and  the  length  of  its  horns. 
This  goat  had  intercourse,  bestially,  with  the  woman  to 
whose  care  it  had  been  committed  ;  the  wretch-ed  creature 
having  seduced  it  to  become  the  instrument  of  gratifying 
her  unnatural  lust,  rather  than  that  the  animal  was  the 
guilty  actor.  O  foul  and  disgraceful  deed!  How  dread- 
fully has  reason  given  the  reins  to  sensuality  !  How  brutally 
does  the  lord  of  brutes,  discarding  his  natural  privileges, 
descend  to  the  level  of  brutes,  when  he,  rational  animal, 
submits  to  such  intercourse  with  a  beast !  For  although 
on  both  sides  it  is  detestable  and  abominable,  it  is  by  far 
the  least  that  brutes  should  be  entirely  submissive  to 
rational  creatures.  But  though  brutes  are  destined  by 
nature  for  the  service  of  men,  they  were  created  for  use,, 
not  abuse.  The  indignation  of  nature,  strongly  repudiating 
it,  thus  vents  itself  in  verse  : 

"Omnia  jam  novitate  placent,  nova  grata  voluptas> 
Et  naturalis  inveterata  Ve.ijus. 
Arte  minus  natura  placet,  consumitur  usus  ; 
In  reprobos  ratio,  jam  i-atione  carcns. 


A    LTON    EjSAMOUEED    OF    A    WOMAN.  87 

Vis  genitiva  geinit,  violata  cupidinis  arte  ; 

Et  violans  vinclex  publicat  ira  scelus. 
Paiulit  enim  natura  nefas,  proditque  pudorem 

Criminis  iufandi,  prodigiosa  creans." 

CHAPTEE  XXIV. 

OF   A   LION    THAT    WAS    ENAMOUHED    OF   A   WOMAN. 

I  SAW  at  Paris  a  lion  wliich  some  cardinal  had  presented, 
v/hen  it  was  a  whelp,  to  Philip,  the  son  of  king  Louis.* 
This  lion  was  in  the  habit  of  haviog  bestial  intercourse  with 
a  silly  girl,  whose  name  was  Joan.  If,  by  any  chance,  it 
broke  out  of  its  den,  and  became  so  infuriated  that  no  one 
dared  to  approach  it,  Joan  was  called,  and  instantly  disarmed 
its  malice  and  pacified  its  rage.  Soothed  by  female  allure- 
ments, it  followed  her  where  she  pleased,  and  immediately 
changed  its  fury  to  love.  Both  of  these  brutes  merited  a 
shameful  death."  But  not  only  in  modern  times  have  these 
abominations  been  attempted,  but  in  the  earliest  ages,  re- 
markable for  their  greater  innocence  and  simplicity  of  man- 
ners, society  was  polluted  by  these  infamous  vices.  Thus 
we  find  it  written  in  Leviticus : — "  If  a  woman  approach 
unto  any  beast  and  lie  down  thereto,  thou  shalt  kill  the 
woman,  and  the  beast  shall  be  put  to  death.  Their  blood 
shall  be  upon  them."'^  The  beast  was  commanded  to  be 
slain,  not  for  its  guilt,  of  which  its  nature  as  a  brute  excul- 
pated it,  but  as  a  memorial,  to  recall  to  the  mind  the  enor- 
mity of  the  sin.  It  is  also  the  opinion  of  many  persons, 
that  the  story  of  Pasiphae  being  leaped  by  a  bull  was  not  a 
mere  fable,  but  an  actual  fact. 

CHAPTEE  XXY. 

THAT    COCKS    IN   lEELAND    CEOW   AT   DIFFEEENT   HOUBS 
FEOM    THOSE    IN    OTHEE    COUNTEIES. 

Cocks  at  roost  in  Ireland  do  not,  as  in  other  countries, 
divide  the  third  and  last  watches  of  the  night,  by  crowing 
at  three  successive  periods  in  the  interval.  Here  they  are 
heard  a  little  before  dawn;  and  the  day  is  known  to  be  as 

1  The  celebrated  Philippe  Anguste,  son  of  Louis  YII.  or  Louis  lo 
Jeune.  Philippe  reigned  over  France  from  1180  to  1223,  but  at  the  time 
Giraldus  wrote  this  book  he  had  not  yet  succeeded  to  the  tlirone. 

«  Leyit.  XX.  16. 


88  THE    TOPOGRAPHY    OF    iRELAIfD. 

far  off  from  the  first  cock  crowijig  here  as  it  is  elsewhere 
from  the  third.  Nor  is  it  to  be  supposed  that  they  have 
here  a  different  nature  from  those  in  other  countries ; 
for  cocks  which  are  brought  over  to  the  island  from 
other  parts  crow  here  at  these  periods.  As  Britain  *a 
satisfied  with  a  short  night,  so  is  Ireland ;  and  it  is  all  the 
shorter  for  the  sun's  setting  so  much  nearer  the  west.  But 
the  shorter  the  night  is  here,  so  much  faster  the  day  breaks 
after  cock-crow.  Hence  always  in  the  summer  time  the 
rising  morn,  as  it  were,  soon  brings  on  day  ;  and  as  the  sun 
dips  its  rays  but  little  under  the  earth,  all  night  long  there 
is  light  in  the  sky  about  the  horizon. 

CHAPTEE  XXVI. 

OF  WOLYES  WHICH  WHELPED   IN   THE  MONTH  OF  DECEMBEE. 

In  Ireland,  the  wolves  often  liave  whelps  in  the  month  of 
December,  either  in  consequence  of  the  great  mildness  of 
the  climate,  or,  rather,  in  token  of  the  evils  of  treason  and 
rapine,  which  are  rife  here  before  their  proper  season. 

CHAPTEE  XXVII. 

OF  THE   RATENS   AND   OWLS  WHICH   ONCE   HAD  YOUNG  ONES 
AT    CHRISTMAS. 

At  the  Christmas  when  earl  John  first  quitted  the  island 
the  ravens  and  owls  liad  yonug  ones  in  several  parts  ot 
Ireland,  and  particularly  in  Meath,  prognosticating,  per- 
chance, the  occurrence  of  some  new  and  premature  event. 
Thus  was  proclaimed  the  fatal  death,  in  the  same  year, 
of  Hugh  de  Lacy,  the  lord  of  that  territory,  through  the 
treachery  of  his  subjects.' 

CHAPTEE  XXVIII. 

OF    MIRACLES  ;    AND,    FIRST,    OF    THE    APPLES,    AND    RAVENS, 
AND    BLACKBIRDS    OF    ST.    E:EIWIN. 

Let  us  now  pass  to  the  miracles,  beginning  witli  those  of 
St.  Keiwin,  the  illustrious  confessor  and  abbot.^  When  St. 

^  For  Hugh  de  Lacy  see  afterwards  b.  ii.  cc.  18 — 20,  and  22  of  tlae 
"Conquest  of  Ireland." 

^  St.  Kevin  was  born,  according  to  tbe  legend,  soon  after  St.  Patrick, 
in  the  year  498,  being  related  to  the  O'Tooles,  the  ancient  kings  of  tfci/i 


ST.    KEVO'S    Al^PLE».  89 

KeiwiD  had  becotrte  celebrated  for  his  life  and  sanctity  at 
Griindelachan/  a  noble  boy,  one  of  his  scholars,  happened  to 
fall  sick,  and  had  a  craving  for  some  apples.  The  saint, 
taking  compassion  on  him,  and  having  prayed  to  the  Lord, 
a  willow-tree,  which  stood  near  the  church,  bore  apples,  to 
the  relief  of  the  boy  as  well  as  of  other  sick  persons.  And 
even  to  the  present  day  that  willow,  and  other  sets  from  it, 
planted  in  the  neighbouring  cemetery,  produce  apples  every 
year,  as  if  it  were  an  orchard,  although  in  other  respects, 
such  as  their  boughs  and  leaves,  the  trees  retain  their  na- 
tural properties.^  These  apples  are  white,  and  of  an  oblong 
shape,  and  more  W'holesome  than  pleasant  to  the  taste. 
They  are  held  in  great  reverence  by  the  natives,  who  call 
them  St.  Keiwin's  apples ;  and  many  carry  them  to  the  most 
distant  parts  of  Ireland,  as  remedies  for  various  diseases. 

On  the  feast-day  of  the  same  saint,  the  ravens  at  Grlinde- 
lachan,  in  consequence  of  his  curse  for  his  scholars  having 
accidentally  spilt  their  milk,  neither  come  on  the  ground 
nor  taste  food ;  but,  flying  round  the  village  and  church, 
and  making  a  loud  cawing,  enjoy  no  rest  or  refreshment  on 
that  day.^ 

part  of  Ii-eland.  He  was  baptized  by  St.  Cronan,  educated  by  Petroc 
a  Briton,  and  went  into  a  monastery,  from  which  he  visited  St.  Columba 
and  many  other  famous  contemporary  saints.  Retiring  to  the  wilder- 
ness of  Grlendalough,  he  is  said  to  have  founded  there  the  abbey  and 
cathedral,  and  other  churches,  the  remains  of  which  are  still  seen.  St. 
Kevin  lived  a  hundred  and  twenty  years,  and  died  on  the  3rd  June, 
618,  which  day  is  commemorated  by  a  "patron,"  or  festival,  held  in 
the  Valley  of  the  Seven  Churches. 

^  Glen-da-lough,  or  the  Valley  of  the  Two  Lakes,  lies  in  a  hollow  of 
the  Wicklow  mountains,  about  twenty-two  Irish  miles  from  Dublin. 
It  is  almost  surrounded  by  lofty  and  precipitous  mountains,  the'higliest 
summit  of  which  stands  2,268  feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea.  Two 
dark  lakes  wind  in  the  bottom  of  the  valley ;  and  the  principal  ruins 
are  finely  grouped  on  a  green  knoll,  which  slopes  gradually  from  the 
breast  of  a  mountain  ridge,  in  the  lower  part  of  the  valley.  The  most  in- 
teresting of  these  buildings  is  the  chvux'h  called  "  St.  Kevin's  Kitchen," 
one  of  the  few  remaining  stone-roofed  buildings  in  Ireland,  and  a 
"  Round  Tower." 

2  The  tradition  of  St.  Kevin's  willow-apples  is  still  current  at  Glen- 
dalough,  but  the  trees  have  disappeared,  and  the  veneration  paid  to  them 
appears  to  be  transferred  to  a  gro\ip  of  ancient  thorn-bushes  standing 
between  the  cathedral  and  the  lake,  and  supposed  to  have  been  planted 
by  the  hands  of  the  saint. 

^  We  have  not  met  with  any  explanation  of  the  cause  of  St.  Kevin's 


90  THE    TOPOGRAPHY    01'    lllELAND. 

In  Italy  likewise,  at  the  famous  city  of  Ravenna,  on  the 
feast-day  of  St.  Apollinaris,  the  ravens,  crows,  and  jackdawa 
flock  together  every  year  from  all  parts  of  Italy,  as  if  by 
appointment.  By  ancient  custom,  the  carcase  of  a  horse  is 
given  them  on  that  day.  If  you  ask  a  question  respecting 
this  fact,  and  demand  the  reason,  I  do  not  venture  to  assign 
any,  unless  that  from  long  use,  through  an  extended  period 
of  time,  custom  has  become  a  second  nature,  and  "  where 
the  carcass  is,  there  will  the  eagles  be  gathered  together." 
More  probably,  however,  the  matter  is  connected  with  some 
miracle  of  the  saict.  Heuce,  from  this  gatheriug  of  the 
ravens,  the  city  was  called  at  first  Eavensburgh,  which 
means  the  Town  of  Kavens,  from  which,  as  some  conjecture, 
the  name  was  altered  to  Ravenna. 

Moreover,  when  St.  Vincent  was  beheaded  in  Spain,  the 
ravens  which  pounced  upon  his  body,  as  they  would  on  a 
carcass,  all  fell  dead.  And  as  the  misdoings  of  an  individual 
generally  react  on  those  of  his  kind,  so  here,  as  a  punish- 
ment for  this  daring  act,  by  the  interposition  of  divine 
grace,  which  He  wonderfully  shows  forth  in  his  saints,  from 
that  hour  ravens  constantly  settle  and  keep  watch  about  the 
body  of  tlie  martyr.  Hence,  when  it  was  translated  by  sea 
from  Carthage, '  (I  mean  the  Spanish  and  not  the  African  town 
of  that  name)  to  Lisbon,  even  then  ravens  constantly  hovered 
about  the  ship  in  which  the  body  was  conveyed.  Moreover, 
in  the  church  of  St.  Vincent,  at  Lisbon,  where  the  remains  of 

wrath  against  the  ravens  at  Glendalough,  which  forms  a  contrast  with 
his  humane  conduct  to  a  blackbird,  related  at  the  close  of  this  chapter. 
According  to  a  story  wliich  rests  only  on  the  legends  of  tradition,  the 
skylark  also  fell  under  the  saint's  ban.  When  St.  Kevin  was  building 
the  churches  in  the  valley,  he  observed  that  the  masons  and  labourers 
employed  in  the  pious  work  were  gradually  losing  their  healtli  and 
viofour;  and  on  his  inqidring  the  cause,  it  was  found  that  their  hours 
of  labour  were  regulated  by  the  maxim,  "  to  rise  with  the  lark  and  lie 
down  with  the  lamb."  Now  the  lark  in  the  valley  used  to  rise  so  un- 
conscionably early,  that  the  labourers  were  insensibly  led  into  insup- 
portable hai-dships  ;  and  to  remove  this  evil  the  saint  prayed  that  the 
lark  might  never  be  permitted  to  sing  in  the  valley  of  Glendalough ; 
which  petition  was  accordingly  granted.  This  tradition  is  alluded  to  ir 
one  of  Moore's  Irish  Melodies,  while  the  subject  is  taken  from  anoth<^ 
legend  of  St.  Kevm,  the  love  of  the  hapless  Cathleen  : — 
*'  By  that  lake,  wliose  gloomy  shore 
Skylark  never  warbles  o'er,"  &o. 
*  Carthagena,  iu  Spain. 


ST.    FIEMT^^'S    BEAE.  91 

the  saint  are  deposited  in  a  splendid  shiine,  ravens  were  wont 
to  roost  round  the  altar,eveLi  to  almost  modern  times.  There 
were  about  six  of  them,  not  always  the  same,  but  different 
ones  in  succession.  In  token  of  this,  the  signs^  which 
pilgrims  bring  away  from  thence,  impressed  with  the  mar- 
tyr's image,  have  also  on  them  the  efEgy  of  a  raven.  In 
common  phrase  this  martyr  is  also  called  St.  Yinceiit  de 
Corvo,  so  that  an  occurrence  after  his  death  gave  him  a  sur- 
name, which  did  not  belong  to  him  when  he  was  alive. 

AVhen  the  body  of  St.  Tirmin,  bishop  of  Auch,^  and  a 
native  of  jSTarboune,  was  carried  through  some  parts  of 
the  province  to  Auch,  the  oxen  which  drew  the  vehicle 
being  unyoked  and.  turned  out  to  graze,  one  of  them  was 
suddenly  devoured  by  a  bear.  On  discovering  this,  St. 
Ferreolus,  who  was  nephew  of  St.  Eirmin,  and  the  conduc- 
tor of  the  noble  procession,  as  well  as  St.  Firmin's  imme- 
diate successor  in  his  episcopal  see,  instantly  calling  on  the 
name  of  God,  summoned  the  bear  before  him,  who,  making 
his  appearance,  forthwith  submitted  his  neck  to  the  yoke, 
and  devoutly  took  the  place  of  the  ox  he  had  slain  as  his 
successor  in  drawing  the  load.  The  body  of  St.  Pirmin  hav- 
ing been  thus  miraculously  drawn  from  that  spot  for  several 
miles  to  tlie  city  of  Auch,  and  his  obsequies  celebrated  there 
with  great  pomp,  the  bear,  having  obtained,  as  it  were,  the 
permission  of  St.  Firmin,  returned  unhurt  to  his  mountain 
lair.  Moreover,  every  year  afterwards,  as  long  as  he  lived, 
he  regularly  came  to  the  cliurch  on  the  festival  of  St.  Tir- 
min,  and,  laying  aside  for  the  time  all  the  ferocity  of  a 
beast  of  prey,  he  shewed  himself  to  the  people  as  a  tame 
animal,  allowing  them  to  touch  and  stroke  him  ;  as  if  he 
were  ready  to  undergo  the  punishment  merited  by  his  atro- 
cious act,  and  the  oifence  he  had  committed.  Where- 
fore,  his  skin,  carefully  preserved  in  the  church    of  St. 

^  The  TOedieval  practice  of  pilgrims  bringing  away  signs  or  tokens, 
generally  cast  in  lead,  of  the  saints  whose  slirines  they  had  visited,  is 
nosv  well  known  to  antiquai-ies,  and  abundance  of  these  pilgrims'  signs 
are  found  in  collections.  They  generally  represent  figures  or  emblems 
of  the  particular  saint  visited,  and  often  both 

2  Auch  is  a  very  ancient  city,  the  seat  of  an  archbishop,  in  the  S.W. 
of  France,  twenty  leagues  from  Toulouse.  The  ancient  cathedral  and 
best  part  of  the  place  stand  on  an  elevated  ridge  commanding  a  view 
of  the  Pyrenees,  and  washed  at  its  foot  by  the  river  Gers,  which,  rvmuing 
northward,  falls  into  the  Graronne. 


92  THE    TOPOGRAPlir    Of    IRELAND. 

Firmin  to  the  present  day,  is  held  in  great  veneration,  and 
is  shewn  to  travellers  and  pilgrims  as  a  memorial  of  this 
great  miracle. 

In  the  region  of  Constatitinople,  in  the  province  of 
the  Chersonese,  where  the  body  oT  St.  Clement  was 
miraculously  discovered  in  the  sea,^  the  festival  of  the 
saint  is  held  every  year,  and,  during  about  eight  days, 
the  waters  recede  from  the  shore  further  than  was  ever 
known  for  ages  before,  and  leave  the  bed  of  the  sea  dry, 
a  miraculous  road  for  the  people  and  pilgrims  who 
devoutly  come  to  the  feast.  The  solemnities  ended,  the 
wide  sea  flows  all  around,  returning  to  its  ancient  bounds, 
and  immediately  occupies  the  whole  space ;  nor  can  any 
traces  of  the  road  be  discovered  until  the  return  of  the 
same  period  in  the  revolving  year.  Thus,  even  in  our  days, 
on  whom  the  ends  of  the  world  are  come,  the  glorious  mi- 
racle of  the  Red  Sea  is  wont  to  be  represented,  in  some 
sort,  every  year.  Blessed,  therefore,  be  the  Lord  Grod  of 
Israel,  who  alone  doeth  wondrous  things,  and  blessed  be  the 
name  of  his  Majesty  for  ever.  For  to  set  forth  the  merits 
of  his  saints,  and  still  to  glorify  on  earth  those  who  are  glo- 
rified in  heaven,  birds  and  seas  obey  his  commands.  But 
enough  of  these  :  let  us  now  return  to  our  Keiwin. 

St.  Keiwin,  then,  upon  some  occasion,  when,  during  the 
season  of  Lent,  he  had  fled,  as  he  was  wont,  from  converse 
with  men,  retired  to  a  little  cabin  in  the  wilderness, 
where,  sheltered  only  from  the  sun  and  rain,  he  gave  himself 

'  St.  Clement,  the  second  or  third  Bishop  of  Rome,  is  said  to  have 
been  banished  by  a  rescript  of  the  Emperor  Trajan,  "  to  the  city  of 
Cherson,  beyond  the  Euxine  Sea."  According  to  the  legend,  after 
making  numerous  converts  there,  Clement,  in  a  general  massacre  of  the 
Christians,  was  cast  into  the  sea  with  an  anchor  attached  to  his  neck. 
In  the  midst  of  the  grief  of  the  sui-vivors  of  his  flock,  a  strange  spec- 
tacle was  presented  to  their  view.  The  sea  receded  for  almost  three 
miles  from  the  shore,  and  the  people,  walking  on  dry  land,  discovered 
a  small  building,  having  the  appearance  of  a  marble  chapel,  built  by 
angelic  hands,  and  the  body  of  St.  Clement  deposited  therein  in  a 
stone  coffin  by  the  ministry  of  angels,  v/ith  the  anchor  by  which  the  body 
had  been  sunk  laid  near.  It  was  I'evealed  to  the  disciples  that  they 
should  not  remove  the  body,  as  on  the  recurrence  of  the  anniversary  of 
St.  Clement's  martyrdom,  the  sea  would  again  recede,  and  for  seven 
days  permit  approaeli  to  the  tomb. — Orderic.  "Vital.,  B.  II.  c.  XTTII. 
(vol.  j.  p.  316,  in  Boliris  Antiq.  Lib.) 


THE    TEALS    OF    ST.    COLMAIT.  93 

up  to  contemplation,  and  spent  all  his  time  in  reading  and 
prayer.^  One  morning,  having  raised  his  hand  to  heaven, 
as  was  his  custom,  through  the  window,  it  chanced 
that  a  blackbird  pitched  upon  it  and  laid  her  eggs  in  his 
palm,  treating  it  as  her  nest.  The  saint,  taking  pity  on  the 
bird,  shewed  so  much  gentleness  and  patience  that  he 
neither  drew  in  nor  closed  his  hand,  but  kept  it  extended 
and  adapted  it  to  the  purpose  of  a  nest,  without  wearying, 
until  the  young  brood  was  entirely  hatched.  In  perpetual 
memory  of  this  wonderful  occurrence,  all  the  images  of  St. 
Keiwin  throughout  Ireland  represent  him  with  a  blackbird 
in  his  extended  hand. 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 

OF  ST.  COLMAN's    teal,  WHICH   WERE    TAMED    BY    HIM,  AND 
CANlSrOT    BE    I2fJURED. 

There  is  in  Leinster  a  small  pool  frequented  by  the  birds 
of  St.  Colman,^  a  species  of  small  ducks,  vulgarly  called  teal 
{cerceU(B).  Since  the  time  of  the  saint,  these  birds  have  be- 
come so  tame  that  they  take  food  from  the  hand,  and  until 
the  present  day  exhibit  no  signs  of  alarm  when  approached 
by  men.  They  are  always  about  thirteen  in  number,  as  if 
they  formed  the  society  of  a  convent.^  As  often  as  any  evil 
chances  to  befall  the  church  or  clergy,  or  the  little  birds 
themselves,  or  any  molestation  is  offered  them,  they  directly 

*  The  site  assigned  to  this  retreat  of  St.  Kevin  is  one  of  the  most 
romantic  spots  in  the  valley  of  Glendalough.  Beneath  the  dark  and 
frowning  cliff  of  Lugduff,  on  a  little  patch  of  arable  land,  are  the  low 
ruins  of  the  church  of  Khefeart,  the  sepulchre  of  kings,  overgrown  with 
ivy  and  wild  shrubbery,  beneath  which  a  slab  of  grey  marble  marks  the 
tombs  of  the  great  O'Tooles,  the  former  kings  of  this  territory,  seven  of 
whom  are  supposed  to  lie  there.  The  church  is  also  called  TeampuU- 
na-Skellig,  the  temple  of  the  desert  or  rock,  and  St.  Kevin's  cell.  It 
must  not  be  confounded  with  "  6t.  Kevin's  Bed,"  a  narrow  cave  in  the 
face  of  an  escarped  rock,  hanging  perpendicularly  thirty  feet  over  the 
waters  of  the  upper  lake. 

2  Colman  was  an  Irish  ecclesiastic  of  the  seventh  century,  who  suc- 
ceeded Finan  as  bishop  of  Lindisfarne,  but  in  consequence  of  the  great 
dispute  on  the  subject  of  Easter,  he  abandoned  his  bishopric,  and  re- 
turned to  Ireland,  where  he  established  a  monastery  in  the  isle  of  Inis- 
bofinde.     He  died  there  in  676. 

3  A  religious  convent,  strictly  speaking,  consisted  of  thirteen  monkA 
or  nuns,  of  whom  one  was  prior  or  prioi'ess. 


9i  THE    TOPOGRAPHY    OF    IRELAND. 

fly  away,  and,  betaking  themselves  to  some  lake  far  re- 
moved from  thence,  do  not  return  to  their  former  haunts 
until  condign  punishment  has  overtaken  the  oifendera. 
Meanwhile,  during  their  absence,  the  waters  of  the  pond, 
which  were  before  very  limpid  and  clear,  become  stinking 
and  putrid,  unfit  for  the  use  either  of  men  or  cattle.  It 
has  happened  occasionally  that  some  person  fetching  water 
from  this  pond  in  the  night-time,  has  drawn  up  with  it  one 
of  the  birds,  not  purposely  but  by  chance,  and  having 
cooked  his  meat  in  the  water  for  a  long  time  without  being 
able  to  boil  it,  at  last  he  has  found  the  bird  swimming  in 
the  pot,  quite  unhurt ;  and  having  carried  it  back  to  the 
pond,  his  meat  was  boiled  without  further  delay. 

It  happened,  also,  in  our  time,  that  as  Kobert  Fitz- 
Stephen,  wdth  Dermot,  king  of  Leinster,  was  passing 
through  that  country,^  an  archer  shot  one  of  these  birds 
with  an  arrow.  Carrying  it  with  him  to  his  quarters,  he 
put  it  in  a  pot  to  be  cooked  with  his  meat,  but  after  thrice 
supplying  the  fire  with  wood,  and  waiting  till  midnight,  he 
did  not  succeed  in  making  the  pot  boil,  so  that  after  taking 
out  the  meat  for  the  third  time,  he  found  it  as  raw  as  Avhen 
he  first  placed  it  in  the  pot.  At  last,  his  host  observing 
the  little  bird  among  the  pieces  of  meat,  and  hearing  that 
it  was  taken  out  of  this  pond,  exclaimed  with  tears  :  "  Alaa 
me,  that  ever  such  a  misfortune  should  have  befallen  my 
house,  and  have  happened  in  it !  For  this  is  one  of  St.  Col- 
man's  birds."  Thereupon  the  meat  being  put  alone  into  the 
pot,  was  cooked  without  further  difiiculty.  The  archer  soon 
afterwards  miserably  expired. 

Moreover,  it  chanced  that  a  kite,  having  carried  off  one 
of  these  little  birds,  and  perched  with  it  in  a  neighbouring 
tree,  behold,  all  his  limbs  immediately  stiffened  in  the 
sight  of  many  persons,  nor  did  the  robber  regard  the  prey 
which  he  held  in  his  claws.  It  also  happened  that  one 
frosty  season  a  fox  carried  off  one  of  these  birds,  and 
when  the  morning  came,  the  beast  was  found  in  a  little  hut 
on  the  shore  ot  the  lake  which  was  held  in  veneration 
from  its  having  been  formerly  the  resort  of  St.  Colman,  the 
bird  beiug  in  the  fox's  jaws,  and  having  choked  him.  In 
both  cases  the  spoiler  suffered  the  penalty  of  death,  while 
'  See  afterwards,  "  Conquest  of  Ireland,"  Part  I.  c.  iv. 


ST.    NANNAN'S    FLEAS.  95 

his  prey  was  unliurt,  the  birds  returning  to  the  lake 
without  the  slightest  injury,  under  the  protection  of  their 
holy  patron. 

CHAPTER  XXX. 

OF    THE    STONE    IIS"    WHICH    A    CAYITY    IS    EYERr    DAY    M  [- 
EA.CTJLOUSLY    FILLED    WITH   WINE. 

In  the  southern  part  of  Muuster,  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
Cork,  there  is  an  island  with  a  church  dedicated  to  St.  Mi- 
chael, famed  for  its  orthodox  sanctity  from  very  ancient  times. 
There  is  a  stone  outside  the  porch  of  this  church,  on  the 
right  hand,  and  partly  fixed  in  the  wall,  with  a  hollow  in  its 
surface,  which,  every  morning,  through  the  merits  of  the  saint 
to  whom  the  church  is  dedicated,  is  filled  with  as  much 
wine  as  will  conveniently  sufilce  for  the  service  of  the 
masses  on  the  day  ensuing,  according  to  the  number  of 
priests  there  who  have  to  celebrate  them.  A  like  miracle 
is  mentioned  in  the  Dialogues  of  St.  Gregory,  where  he 
speaks  of  a  certain  Campanian  monk  named  Martin,  who 
secluded  himself  for  many  years  in  a  narrow  cave  of  Mount 
Marisco.  The  first  miracle  he  wrought  was  that,  on  closing 
the  hole  in  the  mountain  in  which  he  shut  himself  up,  he 
caused  a  fresh  rill  of  water  to  gush  forth  from  the  hollow 
of  the  rock  in  which  he  had  dug  out  his  narrow  cave.  It 
dropped  just  enough  for  the  daily  use  of  the  servant  of 
Grod,  with  none  to  spare,  nor  was  a  sufilciency  ever  wanting. 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 

OF    THE    FLEAS    WHICH    WERE    GOT    EID  OF    BY    ST.  NANNAN. 

There  is  a  village  in  Connaught  celebrated  for  a  church 
dedicated  to  St.  JSTannan,  where  swarms  of  fleas  had  so 
multiplied  during  a  long  course  of  years,  that  the  plague 
with  which  they  were  infested  drove  nearly  all  the  inhabi- 
tants away,  and  the  place  became  deserted.  At  length,  by 
the  intercession  of  St.  Nannan,  they  were  expelled  into  a 
neighbouring  meadow,  and  not  a  single  one  could  afterwards 
be  found  in  the  village,  so  largely  did  the  Divine  influence 
overflow  in  that  place  through  the  merits  of  the  saint. 
The  fleas,  however,  swarmed  in  the  meadow  in  such  num« 
bers,  that  neither  man  nor  beast  could  venture  to  enter  it. 


06  THE    TOPOGRAPHY    OF    lEELAIfl). 

CHAPTER  XXXII. 

OP    THE    EAT3    WHICH    WERE    EXPELLED    BY    ST.  TYORUS. 

There  is  in  the  province  of  Leinster  a  district  called  Fer- 
nigenan  (Ferns),  which  is  only  separated  from  Wexford 
by  the  river  Slaney.  From  this  district  the  larger  species 
of  mice,  commonly  called  rats,  were  so  entirely  expelled  by 
the  curse  of  St.  Tvorus,  the  bishop,  whose  books  they  had 
probably  gnawed,  that  none  were  afterwards  bred  there,  or 
could  exist  if  they  were  introduced. 

CHAPTEE  XXXin. 

OF     A     WANDERING     BELL. 

In  Leinster,  in  the  land  of  Mactalewi,  there  is  a  bell,  which, 
unless  it  is  adjured  by  its  keeper  every  night  with  an  exor- 
cism composed  for  the  purpose,  and  fastened  by  some  cord, 
however  slight,  is  found  next  morning  at  Clunarech,  in 
Meath,  in  the  church  of  St.  Finnan,  from  which  it  had 
come.  It  is  certain  that  this  occurred  on  several  occa- 
sions. 

CHAPTEE  XXXiy. 

OF    VARIOUS      MIRACLES    IN    KILDARE  ;    AND    FIRST,    OF    THE 
FIRE    WHICH    NEVER    GOES    OUT,    AND    THE  ASHES    WHICH 

NEVER    INCREASE. 

At  Kildare,  in  Leinster,  celebrated  for  the  glorious  Brigit, 
many  miracles  have  been  wrought  worthy  of  memory. 
Among  these,  the  first  that  occurs  is  the  fire  of  St.  Bri- 
git,  which  is  reported  never  to  go  out.  Not  that  it  can- 
not be  extinguished,  but  the  nuns  and  holy  women  tend 
and  feed  it,  adding  fuel,  with  such  watchful  and  diligent 
care,  that  from  the  time  of  the  Virgin,  it  has  continued 
burning  through  a  long  course  of  years  ;  and  although  such 
heaps  of  wood  have  been  consumed  during  this  long  period, 
there  has  been  no  accumulation  of  ashes. ^ 

"*  St.  Brigit,  or  Bridget,  the  illegitimate  daughter  of  an  Irish  chieftain, 
was  born,  according  to  the  legend,  in  453,  and  at  the  age  of  fourteen  re- 
ceived the  veil  from  the  hands  of  St.  Patrick,  or  one  of  his  immediate  dis- 
ciples. Shefoiuidofl  a  nunnery  at  Kildare,  over  which  she  presided,  and 


ST,    BEIfilT'S    FIEE.  97 

CHAPTEE  XXXV. 

HOW   THE    riEE    IS    K:EPT    ALIYE    BT    ST.    BEIGIT    ON    HEE 
NIGHT. 

As  in  the  time  of  St.  Brigit  twenty  nuns  were  here  en- 
gaged in  the  Lord's  warfare,  she  herself  being  the  twen- 
tieth, after  her  glorious  departure,  nineteen  have  always 
formed  the  society,  the  Dumber  having  never  been  increased. 
Each  of  them  has  the  care  of  the  fire  for  a  single  night  in 
turn,  and,  on  the  evening  before  the  twentieth  night,  the 
last  nun,  having  heaped  wood  upon  the  fire,  says,  "  Brigit, 
take  charge  of  your  own  fire ;  for  this  night  belongs  to  you." 
•She  then  leaves  the  fire,  and  in  the  morning  it  is  found 
that  the  fire  has  not  gone  out,  and  that  the  usual  quantity 
of  fuel  has  been  used. 

CHAPTEE  XXXYI. 

OF   THE    HEDGE    BOUND    THE    FIEE,    WHICH    NO    MALE    CAN 
ENTEE. 

This  fire  is  surrounded  by  a  hedge,  made  of  stakes  and 
brushwood,  and  forming  a  circle,  within  which  no  male  can 
enter ;  and  if  any  one  should  presume  to  enter,  which  has 
been  sometimes  attempted  by  rash  men,  he  will  not  es- 
cape the  divine  vengeance.  Moreover,  it  is  only  lawful  for 
women  to  blow  the  fire,  fanning  it  or  using  bellows  only, 
and  not  with  their  breath.  Moreover,  by  virtue  of  a  curse 
pronounced  by  the  virgin,  goats  here  never  have  any  young. 
In  this  neighbourhood  there  are  some  very  beautiful  mea- 
dows called  St.  Brigit's  pastures,  in  which  no  plough  is  ever 
Bufi'ered  to  turn  a  furrow.     Eespecting  these  meadows,  it  is 

where  she  was  buried  on  her  death,  in  the  odour  of  sanctity,  and  having 
wrought  many  miracles,  in  523.  Her  remains  were  afterwards  removed,  as 
Gii'aldus  informs  us,  under  his  own  stiperintendence,  to  Down.  See  Dist. 
iii.  c.  18.  In  a  sanctuaiy  attached  to,  or  near  the  Abbey,  a  perpetual  fire, 
instituted  by  St.  Brigit,  was  kept  up  by  the  nuns,  hke  that  of  Yesta,  by 
her  virgins  at  Eome.  It  will  be  seen  in  the  ensuing  chapters  what 
veneration  was  paid  to  this  sawed  fire,  which  General  Yallancy  supposes 
to  have  been  a  tradition  of  Eastern  origin.  Henry  de  Londres,  arch- 
bishop of  Dublin,  caused  it  to  be  extinguished  in  1220  ;  but  it  was 
afterwards  renewed,  and  continued  till  the  suppression  of  monasteries 
by  Henry  YIIL 


98  TKE    TOPOGRAPHY  OF    IiiELA2s'D. 

held  a3  a  miracle  that  although  all  the  cattle  in  the  province 
should  graze  the  herbage  from  morning  till  night,  the  next 
day  the  grass  would  be  as  luxuriant  as  ever.  It  may  be  said, 
indeed,  of  them, 

"  Et  quantum  longis  carpunt  armenta  diebus, 
Exigua  tantum  gelidus  ro3  nocte  reponit.'" 

"  Cropt  in  a  summer's  day  by  herds,  the  dew's 
Befreshing  moisture  verdure  still  renews." 


CHAPTEE  XXXYII. 

or    THE    FALCOIf    IN    KILDAEE   WHICH    APPEAEED    TAME 
AND  DOMESTICATED. 

Eeom  the  time  of  Brigit,  a  beautiful  falcon  frequented  tliat 
spot,  and  was  accustomed  to  perch  on  the  top  of  the  church 
tower.^  Hence  it  was  popularly  called  Brigit's  bird,  and  held 
by  all  in  great  veneration.  At  the  beck  of  the  townspeople 
or  of  the  knights  in  the  castle,  just  as  if  it  was  tamed  and 
trained  for  the  purpose,  it  would  chase  ducks  and  other  birds, 
both  those  whichfrequent  the  plains  and  the  rivers  in  the  plain 
of  Kildare,  to  the  great  delight  of  the  spectators,  pouncing 
upon  them  in  the  air,  and  striking  them  to  the  ground  with 
its  instinctive  velocity.  What  chance  of  escape  was  left  to 
these  poor  birds,  when  the  ground  and  the  waters  were 
beset  by  man,  and  their  cruel  tyrant  had  possession  of  the 
air !  It  was  remarkable  in  this  falcon,  that  it  never  suffered 
any  bird  to  pair  with  it  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  church 
which  it  frequented,  but  at  the  proper  season  withdrew  to 
the  mountains  of  Grlendalough  (G-lindelachan),^and  pairing 
there,  in  the  usual  manner,  indulged  its  natural  instinct. 
This  ended,  it  returned  to  the  church  without  its  mate ; 
thus  setting  a  good  example  to  ecclesiastical  persons,  and 
especially  to  those  engaged  in  divine  offices  within  the  re- 
cesses and  precincts  of  a  church.  At  the  time  of  earl  John's 
first  departure  from  Ireland,  this  bird,  after  existing  so 
many  centuries,  and  affording  so  much  delight,  as  well  as 

'  Yirg.  aeorg.  ii.  201,  2. 

^  One  of  the  finest  round  towers  in  Ireland  is  still  standing  at  Kil- 
dare, and  it  is  supposed  to  be  the  same  which  Giraldus  here  calls  ecel9» 
aiagtica  turris.     See  the  note  to  D.  ii.  c.  9. 

*  See  before,  c.  xxviii. 


THE    MIKACIJLOUa    BOOK.  99 

adding  glory  to  St.  Brigit's  shrine,  at  length,  incautiouslv 
settling  on  a  quarry  it  had  pierced,  and  fearless  of  the  foot- 
steps of  man,  was  killed  by  the  staff  of  some  passing  rustia 
Hence  it  is  evident,  that  in  prosperity  we  ought  to  be  pre^ 
pared  for  misfortune,  and  that  we  must  not  trust  in  the 
prospect  of  long  life  and  cherished  happiness. 

CHAPTEE  XXXVIII. 

OF   A   BOOK   MIEACULOUSLT   WEITTEN. 

Amoitg  all  the  miracles  in  Kildare,  none  appears  to  me  more 
wonderful  than  that  marvellous  book  which  they  say  was 
written  in  the  time  of  the  Virgin  [St.  Brigit]  at  the  dictation 
of  an  angel.  It  contains  the  Tour  Grospels  according  to 
St.  Jerom,  and  almost  every  page  is  illustrated  by  drawings 
illuminated  with  a  variety  of  brilliant  colours.  In  one  page 
you  see  the  countenance  of  the  Divine  Majesty  supernatu- 
rally  pictured ;  in  another,  the  mystic  forms  of  the  evan- 
gelists, with  either  six,  four,  or  two  wings :  here  are  de- 
picted the  eagle,  there  the  calf;  here  the  face  of  a  man, 
there  of  a  lion ;  M'ith  other  figures  in  almost  endless  variety. 
If  you  observe  them  superficially,  and  in  the  usual  careless 
manner,  you  would  imagine  them  to  be  daubs,  rather  than 
careful  compositions  ;  expecting  to  find  nothing  exquisite, 
where,  in  truth,  there  is  nothing  which  is  not  exquisite. 
But  if  you  apply  yourself  to  a  more  close  examination,  and 
are  able  to  penetrate  the  secrets  of  the  art  displayed  in 
these  pictures,  you  will  find  them  so  delicate  and  exquisite, 
so  finely  drawn,  and  the  work  of  interlacing  so  elaborate, 
while  the  colours  with  which  they  are  illuminated  are 
so  blended,  and  still  so  fresh,  that  you  will  be  ready  to 
assert  that  all  this  is  the  work  of  angelic,  and  not  human, 
skill.  The  more  often  and  closely  I  scrutinize  them,  the 
more  I  am  surprised,  and  always  find  them  new,  discovering 
fresh  causes  for  increased  admiration.^ 

^  If  the  manuscript  were  "written  in  the  time  of  St.  Brigit,  who 
flourished  in  the  fifth  century,  having  been  born  in  the  year  439,  its 
rich  style  of  ornament  might  well  be  supposed  mu'aculous  among  a 
people  80  httle  conversant  with  art  as  the  Irish  of  that  age.  The  Book 
of  Kildare  is  unfortunately  lost ;  but  there  is  preserved  in  the  library 
of  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  an  early  copy  of  the  Gospels,  called  the 
**Book  of  KeUs,"  -which  for  the  beauty  and  splendour  of  its  calligra- 

H    2 


100  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OF  IRELAND. 

CHAPTER  XXXIX. 

now   THE    BOOK   WAS    COMPOSED. 

Eaelt  in  the  nigM  before  the  morning  on  whicli  the  scribe 
was  to  begin  the  book,  an  angel  stood  before  him  in  a  dream, 
and,  showing  him  a  picture  drawn  on  a  tablet  which  he  had 
in  his  hand,  said  to  him,  "  Do  you  think  that  you  can  draw 
this  picture  on  the  first  page  of  the  volume  which  you  pro- 
pose to  copy  ?"  The  scribe,  who  doubted  his  skill  in  such 
exquisite  art,  in  which  he  was  uninstructed  and  had  no 
practice,  replied  that  he  could  not.  Upon  this  the  angel 
said,  "  On  the  morrow,  intreat  your  Lady  to  offer  prayers 
for  yon  to  the  Lord,  that  he  would  vouchsafe  to  open  your 
bodily  eyes,  and  give  you  spiritual  vision,  which  may  enable 
you  to  see  more  clearly,  and  understand  with  more  intelli- 
gence, and  employ  your  hands  in  drawing  with  accuracy." 
The  scribe  having  done  as  he  was  commanded,  the  night 
following  the  angel  came  to  him  again,  and  presented  to 
him  the  same  picture,  with  a  number  of  others.  All  these, 
aided  by  divine  grace,  the  scribe  made  himself  master  of, 
and  faithfully  committing  them  to  his  memory,  exactly 
copied  in  his  book  in  their  proper  places.  In  this  manner 
the  book  was  composed,  an  angel  furnishing  the  designs, 
St.  Brigit  praying,  and  the  scribe  copying. 

CHAPTEE  XL. 

or  THE  PLACES  OF  EEFUGE  MIEACULOTJSLT  PEOTECTED  BY 
THE  SALN^TS. 

In  the  farthest  part  of  Ulster,  there  are  some  mountains  in 
which  cranes  and  griitce,^  and  various  other  birds,  build  their 
nests  during  the  season  in  vast  numbers,  on  account  of  the 
peaceful  asylum  it  ofiers  not  only  to  men,  but  also  to  beasts 
and  birds,  who  are  unmolested  by  the  natives  out  of  reverence 

phy  and  illuminations  is  not  surpassed  by  any  of  its  age  that  is  known 
to  exist.  Indeed,  as  Mr.  Petrie  remarks,  on  looking  at  this  exquisite 
piece  of  penmanship,  it  is  difficult  to  avoid  thinking  that  it  is  the  very 
manuscript  so  elaborately  described  by  Giraldus. 

'  In  a  previous  chapter,  p.  35,  this  vrord  has  occurred,  and  in  the 
note  it  is  stated  to  have  not  been  yet  explained.  It  ought  to  be  re- 
marked, that  some  of  the  Irish  antiquaries  have  translated  it  by  '  grouse,* 
though  this  interpretation  does  not  appear  to  rest  on  very  positiTe 
grounds. 


THE    PLACES    OF    EEETJGE.  lOx 

for  St.Beanus,  whose  chiircli  gives  celebrity  to  the  place.  The 
saint  protects  not  only  the  birds,  but  their  eggs,  in  a  wonder- 
ful and  unheard-of  manner.  For  if  you  put  forth  your  hand 
to  rob  them  of  their  eggs,  you  instantly  see  a  brood  of  young 
birds,  but  red  and  flaccid,  as  if  they  had  been  hatched  that 
same  hour.  "Withdraw  your  hand  spontaneously,  and,  either 
by  a  miracle  or  some  phantasm,  you  will  see  the  brood  again 
changed  to  eggs,  contrary  to  the  course  of  nature.  Let  two 
approach,  the  robber  and  a  companion  who  is  only  a  witness, 
and  one  will  see  chicks  while  the  other  sees  eggs. 

In  the  north  of  Munster,  between  Brendan's  hilP  and  the 
wide  sea  which  flows  between  Spain  and  Ireland,  there  is  a 
large  tract  bounded  on  one  side  by  a  river,  full  of  fish,  and 
on  the  other  by  a  rivulet,  which,  out  of  reverence  to  St. 
Brendan  and  the  other  saints  of  that  place,  aff'ords  a 
wonderful  refuge,  not  only  to  men  and  cattle,  but  to 
the  very  animals  which  run  wild,  whether  bred  there,  or 
migrated  from  some  other  district.  Hence,  both  stags,  wild 
boars,  and  hares,  and  other  beasts  of  chace,  when,  pursued 
by  the  hounds  following  in  their  tracks,  they  perceive  that 
they  cannot  otherwise  escape,  make  for  this  asylum  from  a 
great  distance  with  the  utmost  speed.  As  soon  as  they 
have  crossed  the  rivulet,  the  hounds  stop  their  running  and 
chace  them  no  further  ;  so  that  they  find  themselves  in- 
stantly out  of  danger.  How  wonderful  is  the  power  of 
God,  which,  through  the  merits  of  his  saints,  stops  the 
impious  and  persevering  devourers  from  seizing  their  ready 
prey,  although  their  instinct  is  voracious,  the  hunters  cheer 
them  on,  and  the  game  is  at  their  feet. 

In  these  two  places  of  refuge,  birds  and  wild  animals 
have  so  long  enjoyed  tranquillity,  and  become  almost  tame, 
that  they  do  not  flee  from  the  footsteps  of  man.  On  the 
other  side  of  this  tract  of  land,  there  flows  a  river  which  is 
full  of  fish,  and  especially  of  salmon,  in  marvellous  abun- 
dance. Tbis  great  supply  of  fish  was  granted  for  the  sake 
of  supplying,  in  the  cause  of  charity,  snfficient  means  for 
that  unwearied  hospitality  which  the  saints  were  in  the 
custom  of  exhibiting  in  this  place,  to  the  utmost  of  their 
power,  and  beyond  it,  towards  pilgrims  and  strangers.  And 
lest  this  very  abundance  should  provoke  the  covetous  minds 
of  men,  tempted  by  avarice,  which  is  so  common,  to  turn  it 
'  Query,  Mount  Brandon,  in  Kerry  ? 


102  THE    TOPOGRAPHY    OF    lEELA^'D. 

to  gain,  a  remedy  was  divinely  provided,  as  in  the  case  of 
the  manna ;  for  the  fish  can  never  be  kept  to  be  eatable 
after  the  first  night  they  are  taken.  Even  if  salted,  they 
are  always  liable  to  become  putrid,  and  are  insipid  and 
tasteless  ;  and  if  by  any  means  they  are  reserved  for  the 
morrow,  they  can  neither  be  eaten  or  used. 

CHAPTEE  XLI. 

or    THE    SALMON-LEAP, 

MoEEOYEB,  this  river  flows  through  and  over  a  great  rock, 
and  falls  with  great  force,  as  usual  in  such  cases,  from  the 
top  to  the  bottom.  On  the  summit  of  the  rock  is  a  small 
cavity,  hollowed  out  in  old  times  by  holy  men,  into  which 
the  salmons  leap  in  great  numbers  from  below,  the  distance 
of  the  length  of  a  full-sized  spear,  in  a  manner  so  wonderful 
that  it  might  be  thought  miraculous,  unless  such  were  the 
habits  of  the  fish ;  for  this  species  has  the  natural  instinct 
to  take  such  leaps.  Hence  the  place  derives  its  name  of 
the  salmon-leap. 

CHAPTEE  XLII. 

HOW    THE     SALMON     LEAP. 

Theie  peculiar  mode  of  leaping  is  as  follows.  Eishes  of 
this  sort  naturally  struggle  against  the  stream  ;  for  as  birds 
fly  against  the  wind,  so  fishes  swim  up  the  current.  Upon 
meeting,  however,  with  any  very  precipitous  obstacle,  they 
bend  their  tails  backward  towards  their  mouths,  and  some- 
times, in  order  to  gain  more  power  for  their  leap,  firmly 
com.press  their  tails  in  their  mouths.  Then  suddenly  re- 
leasing themselves  from  the  sort  of  circle  thus  formed,  with 
a  particular  jerk,  like  the  sudden  reaction  of  a  bent  rod, 
they  s])rlng  from  the  bottom  to  the  top  of  the  leap,  to  the 
great  astonishment  of  the  beholders.  There  is  a  similar 
leap  in  the  river  Liff*y,  not  far  from  Dublin,  but  it  is  not 
so  great. ^  A  third  of  these  salmon-leaps  is  to  be  seen  in 
the  river  Teivy  in  South  Wales,  and  it  is  the  highest  of  the 
three.^ 

'  Leixlip,  about  eight  miles  above  Dublin.     Leax,  or  lex^  was  the 
Anglo-Saxon  name  for  the  salmon.  ^  Griraldus  mentions  tb<e 

B»hiion-leap  on  the  Teivy,  in  his  Itinerary  of  Wales,  hb.  ii.  c.  3. 


VOYAGE    OF    ST.    BEEI^DAN.  103 

CHAPTER  XLIII. 

OF    THE    LIFE    OF    ST.    BEENDAN". 

AMOiira  tbe  miracles  which  are  related  of  St.  Brendan/  which 
have  been  reduced  to  writing,  it  is  told  with  what  toils  he 
wandered  over  the  sea  during  a  voyage  which  lasted  seven 
years.  There  is  also  an  account  of  the  various  appearances  of 
angels  ;  of  his  having  celebrated  the  feast  of  Easter  annually 
during  seven  years  on  an  enormous  sea  monster ;  how  the 
most  miserable,  but  not  pitiable,  traitor  Judas  is  chained 
to  a  rock  in  the  sea,  and  deprived  of  the  blessing  of  light ; 
and,  finally,  how  after  Brendan's  long  and  indefatigable 
labours,  and  his  having  attained  to  the  blissful  vision  of 
the  terrestrial  paradise,  he,  by  the  aid  of  divine  grace,  re- 
turned happily  to  his  own  country.  These  things  might 
truly  be  thought  incredible,  except  that,  to  those  who  be- 
lieve, all  things  are  possible ;  and  that  the  Lord  hath  done 
whatever  he  would  in  the  heaven  and  in  the  earth,  in  the 
sea,  and  in  the  depths  ;  and  that  God  is  wonderful  in  his 
saints,  and  great  in  all  his  works  ;  and  that  the  ends  of  the 
world  are  always  producing  some  new  wonder.  Nature, 
who  in  a  sort  of  way  maintains  her  dignity  in  public,  sports 
with  more  freedom  in  private.  Jf  any  one,  however,  should 
desire  to  have  fuller  accounts  of  these  matters,  let  him  read 
the  book  which  is  written  of  the  life  of  Brendan. 

CHAPTEE  XLIY. 

OF    THE    CROSS    AT    DUBLIN"    WHICH    SPAKE    AND    BOEE    TES- 
TIMONY   TO    THE    TEUTH. 

"We  come  now  to  treat  of  occurrences  in  modern  times. 
There  is  a  cross  possessed  of  great  virtues  in  the  church 

*  St.  Brendan,  or  Brandan,  was  the  legendary  navigator  of  the 
Middle  Ages,  and  was  made  to  be  an  Irishman,  because  Ireland  pre- 
sented a  bold  front  to  the  Western  Ocean.  His  legend  appears  to  be 
made  up  of  various  traditionary  stories  of  adventvu'es  of  men  who 
were  carried  out  to  sea,  or  ventured  out  to  sea,  to  a  great  distance 
westward,  and  some  of  whom,  perhaps,  reached  the  Canary  islands,  and 
even  the  coast  of  America.  The  legend  of  St.  Brandan  was  very  popu- 
lar from  the  twelfth  century  downwards,  and  was  published  fii'st  in  a 
Latin  narrative,  and  subsequently  in  translations  in  all  the  languages 
of  Western  Europe.  The  original  Latin  text,  and  several  of  the  trans- 
latiouB,  have  been  prmted. 


|(y4  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF    lEELATTD. 

of  the  Holy  Trinity  at  Dublin,  and  having  the  features  oi 
a  crucifix.  Not  many  years  before  the  arrival  of  the  En- 
o-lish,  namely,  in  the  time  of  the  Ostmen,^  this  crucifix 
opened  its  sacred  mouth  and  spoke  in  the  presence  of  many 
persons  who  heard  the  words.  The  circumstances  were 
these  :  one  of  the  citizens  had  invoked  the  crucifix  as  the 
sole  witness,  and  a  kind  of  surety,  in  a  contract  which 
he  had  entered  into.  In  process  of  time,  however,  the 
party  with  whom  he  had  contracted  repudiating  his  en- 
gagements, and  persisting  in  denying  his  obligation  for  the 
money  which  the  other  had  lent  him  on  his  credit,  his  fel- 
low citizens,  rather  ironically  than  seriously,  tried  the  case 
before  the  cross,  and  having  assembled  in  the  church  for 
that  purpose,  the  crucifix,  on  being  adjured  and  called  to 
witness,  gave  testimony  to  the  truth  in  the  presence  of  many 
persons  who  heard  the  words. 

CHAPTEE  XLY. 

HOW   THE    SAME    CEOSS    BECAME    IMMOYEABLE. 

A-T  the  time  that  earl  Eichard"  came  first  with  an  army  to 
Dublin,  the  citizens,  having  a  presage  in  their  minds  of  the 
many  evils  which  were  impendiug,  and  fearing  that  the  city 
would  be  taken,  as  they  despaired  of  its  defence,  were  con- 
triving how  they  could  make  their  escape  by  sea,  and  wished 
to  carry  away  this  cross  with  them  to  the  islands.  They 
used  every  effort  in  their  power  to  effect  this  ;  but  the  whole 
population  of  the  city  failed  to  move  it  from  its  place  either 
by  force  or  contrivance. 

CHAPTEE  XLYI. 

HOW  A  PENNY,  OEFEEED  BEFOEE  THE  CEOSS,  TWICE  LEAPT 
BACK,  BUT  THE  THIED  TIME,  AETEE  CONFESSION  MADE, 
EEMAINED,  AND  OF  THE  lEON  GEEAVES  THAT  WEEE 
MIEACULOTTSLT    EESTOEED. 

Aftee  the  city  was   taken,   as    a  certain  archer,   among 
others,  was  offering  a  penny  before  the  cross,  when  he  re- 

'  See  afterwards,  Distinction  iii.,  c.  43. 

2   Richard   Strongbow,   earl  of  Strigul.       See  afterwards,  in    B.  i 
CO.  2  and  12  of  our  author's  History  of  the  Conquest  of  Ireland. 


A   PHBEIfETIC    MAIC    Al"    TERNS.  105 

tired,  it  flew  back  bePiind  him ;  and  upon  his  taking  it  up 
and  again  carrying  it  back  to  the  cross,  the  same  thing 
happened  a  second  time,  to  the  surprise  of  many  beholders. 
He  then  confessed,  in  the  presence  of  the  multitude,  that 
he  had  that  day  pillaged  the  bishop's  residence  within  the 
precincts  of  that  same  church.  IJpon  this,  being  enjoined 
to  give  up  the  money,  and  having  restored  everything 
which  he  had  pillaged,  he  brought  back  the  same  penny 
for  the  third  time,  with  great  fear  and  reverence,  to  the 
foot  of  the  cross,  where  at  length  it  remained  motionless. 

Moreover,  some  young  man  in  the  household  of  earl 
Eichard,  when  E-aymond^  was  constable,  having  stole  a 
pair  of  iron  greaves,  the  whole  of  the  household  purged 
themselves  of  the  guilt  upon  their  oaths,  before  the  crucifix 
already  mentioned,  in  the  church  of  the  Holy  Trinity.  I^ot 
long  afterwards,  this  young  man,  on  his  return  from  Eng- 
land, where  he  had  gone  under  no  suspicion  of  the  robbery, 
threw  himself  at  the  feet  of  Eaymond,  worn  to  a  skeleton, 
and  in  great  misery  on  account  of  the  t;rime  he  had  com- 
mitted, and  offered  to  make  satisfaction  and  implored  for- 
giveness. He  also  made  public  confession  that  he  had 
suffered  such  severe  persecution  from  the  cross,  which  from 
the  time  of  his  perjury  had  seemed  to  hang  constantly 
about  his  neck  with  a  heavy  weight,  that  he  could  never 
afterwards  sleep  or  enjoy  any  rest.  Thus,  at  the  period  of 
our  first  arrival,  this  cross,  so  generally  venerated  for  these 
and  other  various  virtues  and  sigTis,  shewed  itself  to  be 
worthy  of  the  reverence  it  here  receives. 

CHAPTEE  XLYII. 

OF   A   PHEEIfETlC    MAN"  AT  FEElSrS,  WHO  PREDICTED    rUTUEE 

EYEFTS. 

"When  the  Eitz-Maurices  had  obtained  possession  of  the 
castle  of  Eerns,  a  young  man  of  their  household,  who  had 
received  the  surname  of  "  The  Phantastic,"  having  pillaged 
the  church  of  St.  Mai  doc,  immediately  fell  into  a  phrenzy 
and  became  mad.  Inspired  also  by  some  spirit,  I  know 
not  of  what  kind,  he  began  to  prophesy,  and  foretold  fu^ 

^  See  History  of  the  Conquest  of  Ireland,  B.  ii.  c.  2. 


106         THE  TOPOQEAPHT  OF  lEELAND. 

ture  events.  "  I  behold,"  he  said,  "  our  men  slain  with 
the  sword,"  mentioning  several  by  name,  "  and  the  castle 
laid  in  ruins ;  and  it  is  no  longer  here."  This  he  shouted 
from  day  to  day,  to  the  great  astonishment  of  everybody;  nor 
did  he  cease  until  there  came  an  attack  by  the  enemy,  and 
in  a  short  time  all  that  he  had  predicted  came  to  pass. 

CHAPTEE  XLVni. 

OF  Alf  AECHEE  WHO  CEOSSTFG  ST.  BETGIt's  HEDGE  WAS 
STEUCK  WITH  MADNESS  ;  AKD  OF  AT^OTHEE  WHO  LOST 
THE   USE    or    HIS    LEG. 

At  Kildare,  an  archer  belonging  to  the  household  of  earl 
Eichard  leapt  over  the  hedge  of  St  Brigit  and  blew  the  fire 
with  his  mouth.^  On  leaping  back  over  the  hedge,  he  began 
to  lose  his  senses,  and  blew  into  every  one's  mouth  he  met, 
exclaiming,  "  See  how  I  blew  St.  Brigit's  fire."  In  the  same 
way,  running  from  house  to  house,  through  the  city,  wher- 
ever he  found  a  fire^  he  began  to  blow  it,  using  the  same 
words.  At  last,  having  been  seized  by  his  comrades  and 
bound,  he  entreated  to  be  taken  to  the  nearest  water.  Being 
conducted  there,  and  parched  with  thirst,  he  took  such  deep 
draughts  that  he  burst  in  the  midst  of  them,  and  died  in 
their  hands.  Another,  who  attempted  to  enter  the  circle 
round  the  fire,  and  with  that  intention  had  already  planted 
one  of  his  legs  across  the  hedge,  though  he  was  dragged  back 
and  held  by  his  companions,  had  his  leg  and  foot  instantly 
withered  ;  w^hence  afterwards,  as  loug  as  he  lived,  he  was 
lame  and  an  idiot. 

CHAPTEE  XLIX. 

OF  THE  SEED-WHEAT  WHICH,  CUESED  BY  THE  BISHOP  OF 
COEK,  FAILED  TO  SPEII^G  UP,  AND  THE  NEXT  TEAE  WAS 
MIEACULOUSLT    PEODTJCED    FEOM    EYE. 

A  CEETAiN  knight,  at  Cork,  having  taken  possession  of  the 
land  of  St.  Einbar,  and  ploughed  it,  without  the  consent 
of  the  bishop,  was  sowing  it  with  seed  wheat,  when  the 
bishop  of  that  see,  coming  to  the  spot,  prohibited  him  in 
the  name  of  Grod  and  the  saints  of  his  church  from  any 
longer  forcibly  occupying,  or  sowing  the  land.  The  knight 
^  See  before,  cc.  xxxv.,  xxxvi. 


PHILIP    or   WOECESTEE   AND    HrGH    TTEEELL.         107 

obstinately  refusing  to  desist  from  his  purpose,  the  bishop 
turning  back,  and  shedding  tears,  said,  "  I  pray  the  Al- 
mighty that  this  seed  may  never  produce  you  a  crop," 
And  it  happened  that  year,  to  the  great  astonishment  of 
all  the  people  in  the  city,  that  those  fields  did  not  produce 
a  single  ear  of  corn,  nor  did  one  grain  of  seed  germinate 
and  spring  into  blade.  Others  having  in  the  following 
year  sown  rye  in  the  fields,  with  the  bishop's  consent,  when 
autumn  came  they  harvested  ordinary  wheat,  having  very 
little  rye  mixed  with  it ;  the  grains  of  the  rye  being  either 
miraculously  changed  into  wheat,  or  rather  the  seed  of  the 
former  year,  which  did  not  then  vegetate,  being  reserved  for 
the  harvest  of  the  second  year,  through  the  merits  of  the 
holy  man. 

CHAPTEE  L. 

HOW  PHILIP  OP  WOECESTEE  WAS  STETJCK  WITH  SUDDEN 
ILLT^ESS  AT  AEMAGH,  AND  HUGH  TTEEELL  DIVINELY 
SCOUEGED. 

Philip  of  Worcester  having  led  troops  during  the  season 
of  Lent  to  Armagh,  the  see  of  St.  Patrick,  and  the  special 
seat  of  the  primacy  of  all  Ireland,  and  during  those  holy  days 
having  extorted  by  violence  a  large  tribute  from  the  sacred 
clergy,  he  was  struck  with  a  sudden  illness  as  he  returned 
with  the  spoils,  and  hardly  escaped  with  his  life.  Moreover, 
Hugh  Tyrrell  having  carried  off"  with  him  to  Louth  a  great 
boiler  which  belonged  to  the  convent  of  clerks,  pursued  by 
the  maledictions  of  the  whole  body  of  clergy,  the  same  night 
a  fire  broke  out  in  his  lodgings,  in  which  the  two  horses 
which  had  drawn  the  boiler,  and  many  other  things,  were 
burnt.  Grreat  part  of  the  town  became  also  a  prey  to  the 
flames  on  that  occasion.  Hugh  Tyrrell,  finding  in  the 
morning  that  the  boiler  had  received  no  injury,  sent  it  back 
to  Armagh,  in  a  fit  of  penitence.  The  bishop  of  Louth, 
who  was  there  at  that  time,  said  of  this  Hugh,  in  the  hear- 
ing of  many  persons  belonging  to  the  army,  "some  great 
misfortune  will  certainly  happen  to  that  man  during  the 
present  year ;  for  the  lamentations  of  so  many  good  men, 
and  so  many  maledictions,  can  never  be  uttered  in  vain.*' 
And  this,  as  we  have  seen,  came  to   pass   before  the  yeai 


Ids  I'HE    TOPOGBAPKT    OF    lEELAI^^D. 

was  ended,  through  the  quarrel  between  Hugh  Tyrrell  and 
Hugh  de  Lacy,  fomented  by  their  followers,  which  plunged 
nearly  the  whole  kingdom  into  confusion  and  ruin. 

CHAPTEE  LI. 

OF  THE  MILL  WHICH  WILL  K^OT  WOEK  ON  SUNDAYS,  OB 
GRIND  ANT  COEN  WHICH  HAS  BEEN  PILFEEED  OR  PIL- 
LAGED. 

At  Ossory  is  the  mill  of  St.  Lucherinus,  the  abbot,  which 
does  not  work  on  Sundays,  and  never  grinds  any  corn  which 
has  been  obtained  by  thieving  or  pillage. 

CHAPTEE  LII. 

OF    THE    MILL    WHICH    NO    WOMEN    ENTER. 

There  is  a  mill  at  Eoure,  in  Meath,  which  St.  Fechin  made 
most  miraculously  with  his  own  hands,  in  the  side  of  a 
certain  rock.  No  women  are  allowed  to  enter  either  this 
mill  or  the  church  of  the  saint ;  and  the  mill  is  held  in  as 
much  reverence  by  the  natives  as  any  of  the  churches  dedi- 
cated to  the  saint.  It  happened  that  when  Hugh  de  Lacy 
was  leading  his  troops  through  this  place,  an  archer  dragged 
a  girl  into  the  mill  and  there  violated  her.  Sudden  puuish- 
ment  overtook  him  ;  for,  being  struck  with  infernal  fire 
in  the  offendiug  parts,  it  spread  through  his  whole  body, 
and  he  died  the  same  night. 

CHAPTEE  Lin. 

HOW  TWO  HORSES,    HATING   FED    ON    OATS    PILLAGED   FROM 
THIS    MILL,    IMMEDIATELY    DIED. 

Moreover,  the  army  having  quartered  for  the  night  in 
this  place,  Hugh  de  Lacy  caused  all  the  coru  which  they 
had  pillaged  from  the  churches  and  tlie  mill  to  be  restored ; 
but  a  small  quantity  of  oats  which  had  been  pilfered  from 
the  mill  by  two  of  the  soldiers  was  surreptitiously  placed  by 
them  before  their  steeds.  One  of  these  men  became  insane, 
and  dashed  his  brains  out  the  same  night  in  the  stable. 
The  other,  after  a  comrade  had  jeered  those  who  made  re- 
stitution of  the  corn,  for  their  hypocritical  pretences  to 
religion,  fell  suddenly  d^ad  the  next  morning,  by  the  side  of 


AECHEES    AT    FIKGLASS    PIT^^^ISHED.  109 

Hugh  de  Lacy,  in  sight  of  the  greatest  part  of  the  troopB, 
who  were  filled  with  amazement. 


CHAPTER  LIY. 

HOW    SOME    AECHEES    AT    EINGLASS    WEEE     PUNISHED    BY 
H  EATEN. 

It  happened  in  our  time,  during  an  unusually  violent  thun- 
der-storm, while  king  Henry  was  engaged  in  his  expedition  to 
Ireland,  that  several  troops  of  archers  were  quartered  for  a 
time  at  a  town  of  the  archbishop  of  Dublin,  called  Finglass. 
The  illustrious  abbot  Kenach  and  other  holy  men  in  succes- 
sion, through  whose  fervent  piety  the  place  became  cele- 
brated, had  formerly  planted  with  their  own  hands  ash  trees 
and  yews,  and  various  other  kinds  of  trees,  round  the  ceme- 
tery for  the  ornament  of  the  church.^  On  these  the  archers 
began  to  lay  violent  hands  in  the  most  irreverent  and 
atrocious  manner.  Tor  there  being  no  woods  near  at  hand, 
they  fell  on  these  trees  with  the  usual  insolence  and  reck- 
lessness of  a  depraved  people  and  the  license  of  soldiers, 
and  lopping  off  the  boughs  of  some  of  them,  and  tearing  up 
others  by  the  roots,  speedily  consumed  nearly  the  whole  in 
their  fires.^  But  they  were  forthwith  smitten  by  God, 
whose  divine  indignation  reserves  vengeance  to  himself,  and 
condescends  to  vindicate  the  injuries  offered  to  his  saints, 
on  earth,  by  a  sudden  and  singular  pestilence ;  so  that 
most  of  them  miserably  perished  within  a  very  few  days  in 
the  same  village,  being  brought  to  judgment  by  a  severe  in- 
quisitor in  the  same  court  wherein  they  had  offended.     The 

^  It  is  a  pleasant  relief  to  the  dark  shades  of  the  ascetic  life  of  these 
old  recluses,  to  picture  them  planting  trees,  gucB  alteri  scecuIo  prosint^ 
for  shelter  and  ornament  in  future  ages,  about  their  churches  and 
religious  houses.  Finglas,  an  agreeable  village,  about  two  miles  from 
Dublin,  is  still  remarkable  for  its  shady  groves.  Besides  the  modern 
cemetery,  it  possesses  at  Glassnevin  the  most  picturesque  of  botanical 
gardens,  in  the  grounds  of  which  are  old  trees,  that  we  may  almost 
fancy  coeval  with  the  plantations  of  abbot  Kenach  or  his  successors. 

2  The  sentence  following  is  omitted,  it  not  being  material  to  the  sense, 
and  so  full  of  alliterations  and  antithesis,  that  it  is  impossible  to  give 
it  point  in  a  translation  ; — "  Et  vere  officiinn  illud  et  ab  officiendo^  non 
per  antiphrasin  sed  proprie  dictum  est.  Talibus  enim  ascripti  officUa^ 
nfficiocissime  semper  potius  officere  parati  sunt,  quam  proficere.^^ 


110  THE    TOPOGEAPHY    OF   lEELAI^D. 

rest  endeavoured  to  save  themselves  by  flight,  but  the  ship 
in  which  they  embarked  being  wrecked,  they  found  in  their 
extremity  that  He  who  rules  the  land  rules  the  sea  also. 
Who,  indeed,  can  flee  from  his  presence,  who  can  escape  ? 

"  Quo  fugis  ergo  manum  Eegis,  gens  impia,  regum  ? 
An  nescis  longas  regibus  esse  manus  ?" 
Por— 

"  Quo  fugis  ex  illo,  qui  elaudit  cuncta,  pugillo  ?" 

But  among  a  thousand  kinds  of  deaths,  that  is  most  to  be 
dreaded  which  is  only  the  beginning  of  death.  Thus  we 
find  that  the  wrath  of  the  only  true  and  mighty  Thunderer, 
which  had  been  provoked  by  wickedness  on  the  earth,  was 
vindicated  by  Neptune  in  the  waves.  Hear  what  the  prophet 
Amos  says  :  "  He  that  fleeth  of  them  shall  not  escape,  and 
he  that  escapeth  of  them  shall  not  be  delivered.  Though 
they  go  down  to  hell,  thence  shall  my  hand  bring  them  up  ; 
though  they  climb  up  to  heaven,  thence  I  will  bring  them 
down  ;  and  though  they  hide  themselves  on  the  top  of  Car- 
mel,  I  will  search  and  take  them  out  thence.  And  though 
they  hide  themselves  from  my  eyes  in  the  bottom  of  the  sea, 
there  will  I  command  my  serpent,  and  he  shall  bite  them. 
And  though  they  go  into  captivity  before  their  enemies,  there 
will  I  command  the  sword,  and  it  shall  slay  them ;  and  I  will 
set  my  eyes  upon  them  for  evil  and  not  for  good."  ^ 

Listen  also  to  Obadiah :  "  Though  thou  exalt  thyself  as 
the  eagle,  and  though  thou  set  thy  nest  among  the  stars, 
thence  will  I  bring  thee  down,  saitli  the  Lord."  ^  Hear  also 
Jonah,  who  fled  from  the  face  of  the  Lord,  and  yet  he  says, 
"  I  fear  the  Lord,  the  Grod  of  heaven,  who  made  the  sea  and 
the  dry  land."  ^  On  which  St.  Jerom  thus  comments : 
"  Since  he  confesses  him  the  Creator  of  the  sea  and  the  dry 
land,  why  should  he  suppose  that  quitting  the  dry  land  he 
could  avoid  his  Maker  in  the  sea  ?"  Hear  also  the  words 
of  the  Psalmist :  "  If  I  ascend  up  to  heaven  thou  art  there  ; 
if  I  go  down  to  hell  thou  art  there  also.  If  I  take  the 
wings  of  the  morning  and  dwell  in  the  uttermost  parts  of 
the  sea,  even  there  also  shall  thy  hand  lead  me,  and  thy 
light  hand  shall  hold  me."* 

^  Amos,  ix.  1—4.  2  Obadiah,  v.  4. 

•  Jonah,  i.  9.  *  Psahn  cxxxix.  9. 


THE    SAIXTS    OF    lEELAXD.  Ill 


CHAPTER  LY. 

TUAT     THE     SAINTS    OF    THIS    COUKTRT    APPEAR     TO     BE    OF 
A   YI]!fDICTIVE    TEMPER. 

It  appears  to  me  very  remarkable,  and  deserving  of  notice, 
that,  as  in  the  present  life  the  people  of  this  nation  are  be- 
yond all  others  irascible  and  prompt  to  revenge,  so  also  in 
the  life  that  is  after  dearth,  the  saints  of  this  country,  exalted 
by  their  merits  above  those  of  other  lands,  appear  to  be  of  a 
vindictive  temper.  There  appears  to  me  no  other  way  of  ac- 
counting for  this  circumstance,  but  this  : — As  the  Irish  people 
possessed  no  castles,  while  the  country  is  full  of  marauders 
who  live  by  plunder,  the  people,  and  more  especj-ally  the 
ecclesiastics,  made  it  their  practice  to  have  recourse  to  the 
churches,  instead  of  fortified  places,  as  refuges  for  them- 
selves and  their  property ;  and,  by  divine  Providence  and 
permission,  there  was  frequent  need  that  the  church  should 
visit  her  enemies  with  the  severest  chastisements ;  this 
being  the  only  mode  by  which  evil-doers  and  impious  men 
could  be  deterred  from  breaking  the  peace  of  ecclesiastical 
societies,  and  for  securing  even  to  a  servile  submission  the 
reverence  due  to  the  very  churches  themselves,  froir,  a  rude 
and  irreligious  people. 


DISTINCTION  III. 

OP  THE  IIS-HABITANTS  OP  THIS  COUNTEY. 

Fob  the  rest,  it  seems  now  time  for  me  to  employ  my  pen 
on  the  first  inhabitants  of  this  country,  and  the  varioua 
arrivals  of  other  races,  successively,  in  the  island;  and  I 
shall  relate  as  briefly  and  clearly  as  I  can,  how  and  from 
what  parts  they  came  hither,  how  long  they  stayed,  or  in  what 
manner  they  disappeared.  For  a  due  attention  to  method 
requires  that,  having  fixed  the  site  of  the  island  as  lying  in 
the  ocean ;  having  described  its  surface  and  character,  and 
the  peculiarities  of  the  various  animals  which  inhabit  it, 
noticing  those  that  are  not  found  there  ;  and  having  mention- 
ed several  new  and  strange  objects,  I  should  now  introduce 
man  himself,  the  noblest  part  of  the  creation,  and  for  whose 
sake  I  have  treated  of  the  rest ;  and  that  I  should  give  an 
account  of  the  manner  and  customs  of  the  people,  the 
various  events  in  their  history,  and  their  changes  of  fortune 
until  the  present  time.  So  that  even  as  the  subjects 
of  our  studies  in  the  present  age  are  enriched  by  the  laud- 
able industry  of  ancient  writers,  my  labours  also  may  make 
some  additions  to  the  stores  of  knowledge  handed  down 
to  posterity,  although  I  am  sensible  that  in  comparison  with 
theirs,  I  strike  a  weak-toned  lyre,  and  use  a  feeble  pen : 
such  is  the  difi'erence  between  us  ;  and  in  speaking  of  my 
own  labours  I  follow  the  example  of  comparing  little  things 
to  great.  However,  I  am  unwilling  to  lead  my  life  in  idle- 
ness and  sloth,  as  if  it  were  not  given  me  for  the  common 
good,  but  to  be  spent  uselessly  in  utter  selfishness,  without 
motives   for   action — a   mere   animal   existence.     How  far 


THE   FIEST   A.EEIVAL   OF    C-ESAEA.  113 

aiore  admirable  and  excellent  is  their  spirit,  who  do  not 
lock  up  the  inestimable  treasure  of  knowledge,  that  noble 
gift  of  G-od,  but  with  a  large  and  commendable  liberality 
open  it  gratuitously  to  all,  freely  giving  with  increase  what 
they  freely  receive,  and  offering  to  public  view  the  light  of 
wisdom  burning  clearly  and  carefully  trimmed,  that  it  may 
shine  the  brighter  when  brought  into  common  use.  So 
also  their  designs  are  most  laudable,  who,  remembering  how 
short  the  days  of  man  are,  and  how  transitory  his  life,  watch 
and  labour  diligently  to  accomplish  some  noble  task  which 
shall  hand  their  names  to  future  ages,  and  perpetuate  their 
renown  by  works  worthy  of  their  virtues. 

CHAPTEE  I. 

OF  THE  FIEST  AEEITAL  OF  C^SAEA,  THE  GEANDDAUGHTEE 
OF  NOAH,  BEFOEE  THE  FLOOD. 

AccoEDiNG  to  the  most  ancient  histories  of  the  Irish, 
Caesara,  a  granddaughter  of  N'oah,^  hearing  that  the  flood  was 
near  at  hand,  resolved  to  escape  by  sailing  with  her  compa- 
nions to  the  farthest  islands  of  the  west,  as  yet  uninhabited 
by  any  human  being,  hoping  that,  where  sin  had  never  been 
committed,  the  flood,  its  avenger,  would  not  come.  The  ships 
in  company  with  her  having  been  lost  by  shipwreck,  that  in 
which  she  herself 'sailed,  with  three  men  and  fifty  women, 
was  saved,  and  thrown  by  chance  on  the  coast  of  Ireland 
in  the  year  before  the  flood.  But  although,  with  ingenuity 
laudable  in  a  woman,  she  had  planned  to  escape  the  destined 
visitation,  it  was  not  in  her  power  by  any  means  to  avoid 
the  common  and  almost  universal  fate.  The  shore  where 
the  ship  first  came  to  land  was  called  the  bay  of  small  ships, 
and  the  mound  of  earth  in  which  she  was  buried  is  called 
the  tomb  of  Caesara  to  this  day.     But  it  appears  to  be  mat- 

^  It  is.  perhaps,  hardly  necessary  to  say  that  all  these  stories  relating 
to  the  first  inhabitants  of  Ireland  are  in  the  highest  degree  fabulous. 
They  are  told  fully  in  Keating's  History  of  Ireland,  which,  indeed, 
forms  the  best  commentary  on  this  part  of  the  "  Topography"  of 
Giraldus  Cambrensis.  According  to  some  of  the  Irish  legends,  long  be- 
fore the  arrival  of  Csesara,  Ireland  had  received  a  colony,  consisting 
chiefly  of  beautiful  women,  led  by  three  daughters  of  Cain  and  their 
husbands. 

I 


114  THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OF  lEELAND. 

ter  of  doubt  how,  if  nearly  all  perished  in  the  flood,  the 
memory  of  these  events  and  of  their  arrival  could  have  been 
preserved.  However,  those  who  first  committed  to  writing 
these  accounts  must  be  answerable  for  them.  For  myself, 
I  compile  history:  it  is  not  my  business  to  impugn  it. 
Perhaps  some  record  of  these  events  was  found,  inscribed 
on  a  stone  or  a  tile,  as  we  read  was  the  case  with  the  art  of 
music  before  the  flood. 


CHAPTEE  n. 

HOW   BAETHOLANUS   WAS    THE    SECONI»    IMMIGRANT,  THBEE 
HUNDEED    TEAES    AETEE    THE    FLOOD. 

In  the  three-hundredth  year  after  the  flood,  Bartholanus,' 
the  son  of  Terah,  a  descendant  from  Japhet,  the  son  of 
Noah,  with  his  three  sons  and  their  wives,  is  reported  to 
have  landed  on  the  coast  of  Ireland,  either  by  chance  or 
design ;  having  either  erred  in  their  course,  or,  as  the  better 
opinion  is,  mistaken  the  country.  He  had  three  sons, 
Languinus,'^  Salanus,  and  Ruturugus,  whose  names  having 
been  conferred  on  localities  where  they  are  still  extant, 
their  memories  have  been  thus  perpetuated,  so  that  they 
seem  still  to  live  among  us.  Lake  Lagini^  derived  its  name 
from  the  eldest  son ;  and  a  very  high  mountain,  towering 
over  the  sea  which  flows  between  Britain  and  Ireland,  is 
named  after  the  second  son.  St.  Dominic  having  many 
ages  afterwards  built  a  noble  monastery  at  the  foot  of  this 
mountain,  it  is  now  better  known  by  the  name  of  Mount 
Dominic.  Buturugus,  who  succeeded  his  two  brothers, 
gave  his  name  to  Lake  Buturugus. 

We  find  few  remarkable  occurrences  in  the  time  of  Bar- 

'  He  is  called  in  the  Irish  annals  Partholan,  and  is  said  to  have  been 
the  ninth  in  descent  from  Noah.  Some  MSS.  of  Giraldus  read  Serah, 
instead  of  Terah,  as  the  name  of  his  father.  According  to  the  Irish 
legend,  he  was  driven  from  Greece  on  account  of  his  wickedness,  and 
passing  by  Sicily,  and  along  the  coasts  of  Spain,  reached  Ireland,  and 
landed  at  Inber-Sceine,  on  the  coast  of  Kerry,  on  a  Wednesday,  the 
14th  day  of  May.  This  event  is  said  to  have  taken  place  three  hun- 
dred years  after  the  deluge. 

•  Another  reading  of  the  MSS.  is  Langurius, 

•  lAiffurini,  according  to  another  reading. 


BAETHOLANTJS    THE    SECOND    IMMIGEANT.  115 

tholanuB ;  indeed  not  any,  except  that  four'  vast  lakes  burst 
suddenly  out  of  the  bowels  of  the  earth,  and  four  woods 
were  felled  and  grubbed  up,  as  agriculture  made  progress, 
and  having  been  cleared  with  great  toil,  were  turned  into  open 
country.  For  at  that  period  the  whole  country,  except  some 
of  the  mountains,  and  generally  even  these,  was  overspread 
by  immense  forests  and  dense  thickets,  so  that  an  open 
plain,  suitable  for  tillage,  could  scarcely  be  found.  Even 
to  the  present  day  such  spots  are  very  rare  in  comparison 
with  the  woods.  However,  Bartholanus  and  his  sons  and 
grandsons  were  no  less  fortunate  in  their  affairs  than  in 
having  a  numerous  posterity ;  for  in  three  hundred  years 
after  their  arrival,  his  descendants  are  said  to  have  already 
increased  to  the  number  of  nine  thousand  men.  At  length, 
having  gained  the  victory  in  a  great  battle  he  fought  with 
the  Giants,  since  human  prosperity  is  never  durable,  and 

**  Et  quoniam  faciles  dare  summa  deos,  eademque  tueri 
Difficiles ;  et  quia  summis  hunc  numina  rebus 
Crescendi  posuere  modum ; 
In  se  magna  ruunt,  summisque  negatum 
Stare  diu,  nimiumque  graves  sub  pondere  lapsus." 

**  Although  the  gods  their  bounties  freely  send, 
Slow  are  their  aids  such  favours  to  defend, 
And  highest  fortunes  find  the  speediest  end. 
Thus  great  things  soonest  fall,  the  noblest  die. 
The  loftiest  totter,  and  in  ruins  he." 

Bartholanus,  with  nearly  all  his  people,  was  carried  off  by  a 
sudden  pestilence,  which  probably  was  produced  by  the  air 
being  corrupted  by  the  putrifying  carcases  of  the  slain 
giants.  Euanus  alone  is  said  to  have  escaped  the  mortality, 
and  to  have  lived,  as  ancient  chronicles  inform  us,  for  a  vast 
number  of  years  (more  indeed  than  it  is  easy  to  believe), 
surviving  till  the  time  of  St.  Patrick,  by  whom  he  was  bap- 
tized.^*     It  is  reported  that*  he  gave  a  faithful  account  of 

'  According  to  the  Irish  legends,  seven  lakes  burst  forth  on  the  ar- 
rival of  Partholan. 

'^  A  diffei'ent  account  of  the  long  existence  of  Ruanus,  who  is  else- 
where called  Tuan,  is  given  in  the  Ogygia,  p.  4 : — "  In  varias  brutonim 
formas  per  multa  saecula  transmutatus,  tandem  circa  a.i>.  527,  e  sal- 
mone,  films  CareUi  regis  Ultoniae  evasit."  [After  having  been  for 
aany  ages  transmuted  into  the  shape  of  various  animals,  at  last,  about 

I  2 


116  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF   IBELATfD. 

the  history  of  Ireland,  having  related  to  St.  Patrick  all  the 
national  events,  the  memory  of  which  had  faded,  from  their 
great  antiquity.  For  there  is  nothing  so  firmly  fixed  in  the 
mind  that  it  is  not  lost  by  neglect  and  the  lapse  of  time. 
Notvrithstanding  Ruanua  had  extorted  from  death  a  long 
truce,  he  could  not  succeed  in  making  a  permanent  peace 
with  him  ;  for,  although  he  had  warded  off  his  attacks  for 
a  term  far  exceeding  the  common  and  usual  bounds  of  this 
mortal  life,  he  could  not  escape  the  fate  which  awaits  all 
miserable  flesh.  As  far  as  can  be  collected  from  Irish  an- 
nals, Euanus  is  stated  to  have  had  his  life  prolonged  for  many 
years  beyond  the  utmost  longevity  of  the  ancient  patriarchs, 
although  this  account  may  appear  very  incredible  and  open 
to  objection. 

CHAPTEE  III. 

HOW,    THIEDLT,    NEMEDTJS    CAME    EEGM    THE    COITNTET    01" 
SCTTHIA,    WITH    HIS    TOUE    SONS. 

Baetolanus  and  all  his  descendants  having  thus  perished 
under  the  stroke  of  a  prolonged  and  severe  pestilence,  the  land 
remained  for  some  time  uncolonized,  until  Nemedus,'  son  of 
Agnominius,  a  Scythian,  was  with  his  four  sons  conveyed 
over  to  the  shores  of  the  desolated  country.  The  names  of 
his  sons  were  Starius,  Gerbaueles,  Antimus,  and  Fergusius. 
In  the  time  of  Nemedus,  four  lakes  suddenly  burst  their 
bounds,  and  the  inundations  swept  off  many  thickets  and 
woods,  and  cleared  the  ground,  so  that  it  was  converted  into 
open  fields.  He  fought  four  battles  with  the  pirates'*  who 
were  continually  making  devastations  in  Ireland,  and  was 
always  victorious.     He  died  in  an  island  on  the  south  of 

the  year  of  our  Lord  527,  he  came  out  from  that  of  a  salmon,  as  the 
son  of  Carell,  king  of  Ulster.]  It  appears  that  the  earliest  Irish  races 
held  the  eastern  doctrine  of  the  transmigration  of  souls  ;  and  fabulous 
accounts  of  the  transmutation  of  the  human  species  into  animals  re- 
ceived credit  in  Ireland  even  as  late  as  the  time  of  Griraldus.  See  be- 
fore, Distinct,  ii.  c.  19. 

'  Nemedus,  according  to  the  legends,  was  the  eleventh  in  descent 
from  Noah,  and  came  from  the  shores  of  the  Euxine  Sea,  with  his  four 
sons. 

*  These  were  the  Fomorians,  powerful  sea-rovers  from  Africa,  who 
are  celeWated  in  the  old  Irish  poetry. 


THE    FOURTH   IMMIGEATION.  117 

Ireland,  to  which  he  bequeathed  his  name,  which  it  still 
bears.  Nemedus's  sons,  grandsons,  and  great-grandsons, 
with  their  posterity,  increased  so  fast  and  in  such  numbers, 
that  they  soon  peopled  the  whole  island,  and  every  corner 
of  it,  to  an  extent  never  before  known.     But  since 

"  Plus  gravitatis  habent  res  quse  cum  tempore  crescunt,  et 
Bara  solet  subitis  rebus  inesse  fides  j" 

**  Things  that  are  slow  of  growth,  the  longest  last  j 
What  springs  up  suddenly,  decays  as  fast  j" 

as  their  numbers  had  suddenly  increased,  so  they  sunk 
under  sudden  and  unexpected  calamities,  and  their  fall  was 
quicker  than  their  rise.  The  greater  part  soon  perished  in 
the  war  with  the  Griants,^  who  were  then  numerous  in  the 
island,  and  by  various  sufferings  and  misfortunes.  The 
rest,  determining  to  take  refuge  in  flight  from  the  number- 
less evils  with  which  they  were  threatened  at  that  time, 
embarked  in  ships,  and  part  of  them  sailed  to  Scythia,  the 
rest  to  Greece.  The  descendants  of  Nemedus  held  posses- 
sion of  Ireland  during  two  hundred  and  sixteen  years ;  and 
for  two  hundred  years  afterwards  it  was  uninhabited. 

CHAPTER  lY. 

OF  THE  rOUETH  IMMIGRATION  BY  THE  FIVE  BEOTHEES  AKD 
SONS  OF  DELA. 

These  events  having  occurred  in  the  order  related,  at  length 
five  chiefs,  all  brothers,  who  were  the  sons  of  Dela,  and 
among  the  descendants  of  Nemedus,  who  had  taken  refuge 
in  Greece,  arrived  in  Ireland,  and,  finding  it  uninhabited, 
divided  the  country  into  five  equal  parts,  of  which  each  took 
one.^  Their  bounds  meet  at  a  stone  standing  near  the 
castle  of  Kyilari,  in  Meath,  which  stone  is  called  the  navel 
of  Ireland,  because  it  stands  in  the  middle  of  the  country.^ 

'  The  Nemedians,  according  to  the  Irish  annals,  were  driven  from 
Irela,nd  not  by  giants,  but  by  the  invasion  of  the  piratic  Fomorians. 

2  The  colony  brought  by  Dela  were  those  known  in  Irish  legend  by 
the  name  of  the  Firboigs.  They  are  said  to  have  arrived  in  Ireland  in 
the  year  1024'  after  the  Deluge.  Some  antiquaries  have  identified  them 
with  the  Belgae,  and  pretend  that  they  went  from  Britain  to  Ireland. 

3  This  spot  was  called  Usneach,  now  Usny  HiU,  in  the  parish  oi 
KilJare,  Westmeath.     It  was  a  celebrated  place  of  pagan  worship. 


118  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OP   lEELAFB 

Hence  that  part  of  Ireland  is  called  Meath  (Media)  y  because 
it  lies  in  the  middle  of  the  island ;  but  it  formed  neither  (A 
the  five  famous  provinces  whose  names  I  have  before  men- 
tioned. For  when  the  aforesaid  five  brothers,  Grandius, 
Genandius,  Sagandius,  Eutherrargus,  and  Slanius,  had  divided 
the  island  into  five  parts,  each  of  those  parts  had  a  small 
portion  of  Meath,  abutting  on  the  stone  just  mentioned ; 
inasmuch  as  that  territory  had  from  the  earliest  times  been 
the  richest  part  of  the  country,  having  a  level  plain,  and 
being  very  fertile  and  productive  of  com.  Hence  none  of 
the  five  brothers  wished  to  be  shut  out  from  it. 

CHAPTEE  Y. 

OP    8LANIU3,    THE    PIEST    SOLE    KING    OP   IRELAND. 

In  process  of  time,  as  fortune  changed,  and  according  to 
wont  caused  many  disasters,  Slanius  alone  obtained  the  mo- 
narchy of  the  whole  of  Ireland.  Hence  he  is  called  the 
first  king  of  Ireland.  He  first  reunited  the  five  por- 
tions of  Meath,  and  forming  them  into  one  province,  ap- 
propriated the  whole  of  Meath  to  the  royal  table.  Hence 
Meath  continues  to  this  day  a  separate  province,  since  the 
time  that  Slanius,  as  already  stated,  detached  it  from  the 
other  five  ;  nor  does  it  contain  as  much  land  as  one  of  the 
other  five,  but  only  one-half  For  as  even  in  the  time  of 
Slanius  each  of  those  provinces  contained  thirty- two  cantreds, 
Meath  was  content  with  sixteen  only.  The  number  of  all 
the  cantreds  in  Ireland  is  one  hundred  and  seventy-six. 
Cantred  is  a  word  common  to  both  languages,  British  and 
Irish,  and  signifies  a  quantity  of  land  usually  containing 
one  hundred  vills.  Including  these  brothers  and  their  suc- 
cessors, nine  kings  succeeded  each  other ;  but  their  reigns 
were  short,  and  altogether  lasted  only  thirty  years.  Sla- 
nius was  buried  on  a  hill  in  Meath,'  which  takes  its  name 
from  him. 

CHAPTEE  YI. 

OF  THE  PIFTH  IMMIGEATIO»,  WHEN  THE  SONS  OP  KING 
MILESIUS  CAME  OVER  FEOM  SPAIN  ;  AND  HOW  HEEI- 
MON  AND    HEBEE    DIVIDED    THE    LAND    BETWEEN    THEM. 

The  nation  being  much  enfeebled,  and  almost  extermi» 
»  Slieve  Slange,  now  called  Slieve  Donard,  in  the  county  Down. 


HEBIMON   FIEST   KINQ   OF   THE   lElSH.  119 

Dated,  by  various  hostilities  among  themselves,  and  still 
more  by  the  war  they  waged,  with  great  loss,  against  another 
branch  of  the  posterity  of  Nemedus,^  which  had  also  come 
over  from  Scythia ;  at  last,  four  nobles,  sons  of  king 
Milesius,^  arrived  from  Spain  with  a  fleet  of  sixty  ships, 
and  quickly  reduced  the  whole  island  under  their  do- 
minion, no  one  opposing  them.  In  process  of  time,  the 
two  most  distinguished  of  these  nobles,  namely,  Heber  and 
Herimon,  divided  the  kingdom  between  them  in  two  equal 
portions,  the  southern  part  falling  to  Herimon,  and  the 
northern  to  Heber. 

CHAPTEE  VII. 

HOW  THE  BROTHERS  QUARRELLED,  AKD  HEBER  HAVING 
BEEN  SLAIN,  Hi.RIMON  WAS  THE  FIRST  SOLE  KING  OP 
THE  IRISH   PEOPLE. 

After  reigning  jointly  for  some  time  prosperously  and  hap- 
pily enough,  as  no  iaith  can  be  put  in  a  kingly  consort,  and 
power  is  always  impatient  of  being  shared,  reckless  ambi- 
tion, the  mother  of  mischief,  tore  asunder  by  degrees  the 
ties  of  brotherly  concord,  soon  broke  every  bond  of  peace, 
and  the  prosperous  state  of  affairs  was  alloyed  by  discord, 
which  perverts  and  disturbs  everything.  After  several  en- 
gagements between  the  brothers,  with  the  doubtful  issues 
common  to  war,  victory  at  last  declared  in  favour  of  Heri- 
mon; and  his  brother  Heber  being  slain  in  a  battle,' 
Herimon  obtained  the  sole  possession  of  the  entire  kingdom 
of  Ireland,  and  became  the  first  monarch  of  the  Irish  race 
who  inhabit  the  island  to  the  present  day.  According  to 
some  statements,  the  Irish  (Hibemienses)  derived  their 
name  from  the  aforesaid  Heber ;  or  rather,  according  to 
others,  they  were  so  named  from  the  Hiberus  (the  Ebro), 
a  river  in  Spain.  They  are  likewise  called  Gaideli,  and  also 
Scots.     Ancient  histories  relate  that  one  Gaidelus,  a  grand- 

*  These  were  the  Tuatha-de-Danaan,  who,  according  to  the  Irish  an- 
tiquaries, came  from  the  north  of  Scotland  to  the  north  of  Ireland. 
They  were,  according  to  tradition,  far  more  civiHzed  than  any  of  the 
colonies  who  preceded  them. 

*  The  Milesians  are  the  most  celebrated  of  all  the  legendaiy  colonieti 
of  Ireland,  and  those  from  whom  the  modern  Irish  claim  descent. 

*  This  battle  is  said  to  have  taken  place  near  Glashill,  in  Offaly. 


120  THE    TOPOGEAPHT   OF    lEELAND. 

son  of  PhsBiiiua/  after  the  confusion  of  tongues  at  the  tower 
of  Nimrod,  was  deeply  skilled  in  various  languages.  On 
account  of  this  skill,  Pharaoh,  king  of  Egypt,  gave  him  his 
daughter  Scota  for  wife.  Since,  therefore,  the  Irish,  as 
they  say,  derive  their  original  lineage  from  these  two,  G^ai- 
delus  and  Scota,  as  they  were  bom,  so  are  they  called  Gaideli 
and  Scots.  This  Gaidelus,  they  assert,  formed  the  Irish 
tongue,  which  is  therefore  called  Gaidelach,  as  if  it  were 
collected  from  all  languages.  The  northern  part  of  the 
British  island  is  also  called  Scotia,  because  a  tribe  which 
sprung  from  them  is  understood  to  inhabit  that  country. 
This  is  proved  by  the  affinity  of  the  two  nations  in  lan- 
guage and  habits,  in  arms  as  well  as  in  customs,  even  to 
the  present  day. 

CHAPTEE  YIII. 

OF  GTJBGUNTIUS,  KINO  OF  THE  BRITONS,  WHO  BEOrOHT 
OYER  THE  BASCLENSES  TO  IRELAND,  AND  SETTLED  THEM 
IN   THE    COUNTRY. 

According  to  the  British  History,^  Gurguntius,  king  of 
the  Britons,  the  noble  son  of  Belinus,  and  grandson  of  the 
famous  Brennus,  as  he  was  returning  from  Denmark,  which 
his  father  had  formerly  subdued,  and,  on  its  rebelling,  he 
had  again  subjugated,  met  with  a  fleet  in  the  Orkney  islands, 
on  board  which  the  Basclenses  had  sailed  thither  from 
Spain.  Their  chieftains  having  presented  themselves  to  the 
king,  and  told  him  whence  they  came,  and  the  object  of 
their  expedition,  namely,  to  settle  in  some  country  in  the 
western  parts,  earnestly  intreated  him  to  give  them  land  to 

^  Phsenius,  king  of  the  Scythians,  was  tlie  grand  ancestor  of  the 
Milesian  race,  and  the  first  purifier  of  the  Irish  tongue,  -which,  ac- 
cording to  the  legend,  was  the  general  language  of  the  human  race  be- 
fore the  confusion  of  tongues  at  Ijabel.  He  also  invented  the  Ogham 
characters.  Nial,  Phsenius's  younger  son,  went  to  Egypt,  married  the 
princess  Scota,  and  had  a  son,  Gaidel,  from  whom  came  the  name  Gael. 
From  Scota  tb.e  Irish  of  the  Milesian  race  were  called  Scoti,  or  Scots, 
and  to  them  this  name  belonged,  until  it,  as  well  as  that  of  Gael,  was 
carried  by  the  Irish  colonies  into  Scotland.  Their  leaders  were  Heber 
(Eiber)  and  Herimon,  or  Heremon  (Eireamon). 

*  This  chapter  is  taken  from  Geofirey  of  Monmouth,  lib.  iii-  o.  18. 
The  Basclenses  are  evidently  the  Basques,  but  this  colony  doe»  not  ap« 
pear  to  be  admitted  by  the  Irish  writers. 


CHABACTEE   AIJD   HABITS    OF   THE    IBISH.  121 

dwell  in.  At  length  the  king,  by  the  advice  of  his  coun- 
sellors, granted  them  the  island,  now  called  Ireland,  which 
was  then  almost  deserted,  or  thinly  peopled,  that  they 
might  settle  there.  He  also  gave  them  pilots  from  his 
own  fleet  to  steer  them  to  the  island.  Hence  it  appears 
that  the  kings  of  Britain  have  claims  to  Ireland  by  some 
right,  although  it  be  ancient.  "We  read  also  that  Arthur, 
the  famous  king  of  the  Britons,  had  the  kings  of  Ireland 
tributary  to  him,  and  that  some  of  them  came  to  his  court 
at  the  great  city  of  Caerleon. 

CHAPTER  IX. 

OF    THE    TEIPLE,    AND    NEW,    CLAIM. 

The  city  of  Bayonne  stands  on  the  frontier  of  Gasccny,  and 
is  under  the  same  government.  It  is  also  the  capital  of 
Basclonia  (Biscay),  from  whence  the  Irish  came.  At  the 
present  day,  Gascony  and  the  whole  of  Aquitaine  are 
under  the  same  rule  as  Britain.^  The  kings  of  Britain, 
besides  this  claim,  have  also  new  claims  of  two  sorts  in  this 
respect.  One  is  the  voluntary  cession  and  spontaneous  offer 
of  fealty  by  the  princes  of  Ireland  (for  every  one  is  free  to 
renounce  his  own  rights)  ;  the  other  is  the  confirmation  of 
the  title  by  the  Pope.^  For  Jove  thundering  on  the  western 
confines  of  the  ocean,  and  Henry  II.,  king  of  England, 
directing  an  expedition  into  those  parts,  the  petty  kings  of 
the  West,  alarmed  at  his  thunderings,  warded  off  the  bolt 
by  means  of  a  treaty  of  peace.^  But  we  shall  treat  of 
this  more  fully  in  the  proper  place. 

CHAPTEE  X. 

OF  THE  CHABACTEB,  CUSTOMS,  AND  HABITS  OF  THIS  PEOPLE. 

I  HATE  considered  it  not  superfluous  to  give  a  short  account 
of  the  condition  of  this  nation,  both  bodily  and  mentally ; 

*  Henry  II ,  by  his  marriage  with  Eleanor  of  Gruienne,  acquired  the 
duchy  of  Aquitaine  and  the  county  of  Poitou,  embracing,  with  their 
dependencies,  the  whole  of  the  south-west  of  France,  as  far  as  the 
Pyrenees. 

'  Giraldus  has  preserved  the  bulls  of  Popes  Adrian  and  Alexander* 
See  hereafter,  Conquest  of  Ireland,  B.  ii.  c.  6. 

»  lb.  B.  i.  c.  32. 


122  THE   TOPOGBAPHT   01*   lEElAltD. 

I  mean  their  state  of  cultivation,  both  interior  and  exterior. 
This  people  are  not  tenderly  nursed  from  their  birth,  as 
others  are ;  for  besides  the  rude  fare  they  receive  from  their 
parents,  which  is  only  just  sufficient  for  their  sustenance, 
as  to  the  rest,  almost  all  is  left  to  nature.  They  are  not 
placed  in  cradles,  or  swathed,  nor  are  their  tender  limbs 
either  fomented  by  constant  bathings,  or  adjusted  with  art. 
For  the  midwives  make  no  use  of  warm  water,  nor  raise 
their  noses,  nor  depress  the  face,  nor  stretch  the  legs ; 
but  nature  alone,  with  very  slight  aids  from  art,  disposes 
and  adjusts  the  limbs  to  which  she  has  given  birth,  just  as 
she  pleases.  As  if  to  prove  that  what  she  is  able  to  form 
she  does  not  cease  to  shape  also,  she  gives  growth  and  pro- 
portions to  these  people,  until  they  arrive  at  perfect  vigour, 
tall  and  handsome  in  person,  and  with  agreeable  and  ruddy 
countenances.  But  although  they  are  richly  endowed  with 
the  gifts  of  nature,  their  want  of  civilization,  shown  both  in 
their  dress  and  mental  culture,  makes  them  a  barbarous 
people.  For  they  wear  but  little  woollen,  and  nearly  all 
they  use  is  black,  that  being  the  colour  of  the  sheep  in  this 
country.  Their  clothes  are  also  made  after  a  barbarous 
fashion. 

Their  custom  is  to  wear  small,  close-fitting  hoods,  hang- 
ing below  the  shoulders  a  cubit's  length,  and  generally  made 
of  parti-coloured  strips  sewn  together.  Under  these,  they 
use  woollen  rugs  instead  of  cloaks,  with  breeches  and  hose 
of  one  piece,  or  hose  and  breeches  joined  together,  which 
are  usually  dyed  of  some  colour.^     Likewise,  in  riding,  they 

*  Seu  braccis  caligatis,  sen  caligis  braccalis.  The  account  given  by  Gi- 
raldua  of  the  ancient  dress  of  the  Irish,  in  a  language  which  suppHed  no 
equivalent  terms,  is  necessarily  obscure;  but,  connecting  it  vpith  other 
sources  of  information,  we  find  that  it  consisted  of  the  following  articles  : 
— 1.  What  our  author  calls  caputium,  was  a  sort  of  bonnet  and  hood,  pro- 
tecting not  only  the  head,  but  the  neck  and  shoulders  from  the  weather. 
It  was  of  a  conical  form,  and  probably  made  of  the  same  sort  of  stuflf 
as  the  mantle.  2.  The  cloak  or  mantle ;  to  describe  which  Giraldus 
has  framed  the  Latin  word  phalhiyium,  from  the  Irish  falach,  which 
signifies  a  rug  or  covering  of  any  sort.  This  cloak  had  a  fringed  border 
sown  or  wove  down  the  edges.  It  was  worn  almost  as  low  as  the 
ancles,  and  was  usually  made  of  frieze,  or  some  such  coarse  material. 
It  was  worn  by  the  higher  classes  of  the  same  fashion,  but  of  better 
quahty,  according  to  their  rank  and  means ;  and  was  sometimes  made 
of  the  finest  cloth,  with  a  silken  or  wDollen  fringe,  and  of  scarlet  or 


CHABACTEE   AKD   HABITS    OP   THE    lEISH.  123 

neither  use  saddles,  nor  boots,  nor  spurs,  but  only  carry  a 
rod  in  their  hand,  having  a  crook  at  the  upper  end,  with 
which  they  both  urge  forward  and  guide  their  horses.  They 
use  reins  which  serve  the  purpose  both  of  a  bridle  and  a 
bit,  and  do  not  prevent  the  horses  from  feeding,  as  they 
always  live  on  grass.  Moreover,  they  go  to  battle  vrithout 
armour,  considering  it  a  burthen,  and  esteeming  it  brave 
and  honourable  to  fight  without  it. 

But  they  are  armed  with  three  kinds  of  weapons : 
namely,  short  spears,  and  two  darts ;  in  which  they  follow 
the  customs  of  the  Basclenses  (Basques);  and  they  also  carry 
heavy  battle-axes  of  iron,  exceedingly  well  wrought  and 
tempered.  These  they  borrowed  from  the  Norwegians  and 
Ostmen,^  of  whom  we  shall  speak  hereafter.  But  in  striking 
with  the  battle-axe  they  use  only  one  hand,  instead  of  both, 
clasping  the  haft  firmly,  and  raising  it  above  the  head,  so  as 

other  colours.  Many  rows  of  the  shag,  or  fiinge,  were  sown  on  the 
upper  part  of  the  mantle,  partly  for  ornament  and  partly  to  defend  the 
neck  from  the  cold ;  and  along  the  edges  ran  a  narrow  fringe  of  the 
Bame  texture  as  the  outward  garment.  3.  The  covering  for  the  lower 
part  of  the  body,  the  thighs  and  legs,  consisted  of  close  breeches,  with 
hose  or  stockings  made  in  one,  or  sewn  to  them.  It  was  a  garment 
common  to  the  Celtic  nations,  and  is  often  mentioned  by  Roman 
writers.  One  of  the  provinces  of  Gh,ul  had  the  name  of  Gallia 
Braccata  from  this  distinguishing  article  of  the  native  dress  The 
word  might  be  translated  "  trowsers"  (Fr.,  trusser,  to  truss),  or 
"trews,"  with  which  and  the  plaid,  both  used  by  the  Scots,  there 
seems  to  have  been  a  great  similarity  in  shape,  material,  and  the 
particoloiTr.  The  Irish  were  so  much  attached  to  this  national  costume, 
that,  in  order  to  break  down  the  line  of  demarcation  between  the  natives 
and  the  English  settlers,  they  were  forbidden  to  wear  it  by  laws  passed 
in  the5Edw.  IV.,  10  Henry  YIL,  and  28  Henry  YIII,  just  as  the 
distinguishing  dress  of  the  Scotch  Highlanders  was  prohibited,  in  order 
to  break  the  spirit  of  the  clans,  after  their  faithful  adhesion  to  the 
Stuart  princes  had  drawn  upon  them  the  severities  of  the  English  go- 
remment.  Giraldus  might  have  added  to  the  list  of  articles  formerly 
worn  by  the  Irish  the  brogues,  made  of  dried  skins,  or  half-tanned 
leather,  and  fastened  with  latchets,  or  thongs  of  the  same  material. 

'  **  Danish  battle-axes  are  usually  mentioned  in  the  old  English  and 
Frankieh  chronicles  as  excellent  and  dangerous  weapons  of  attack. 
Nay,  even  from  the  distant  Myklegaard,  or  Constantinople,  where  the 
northerners,  under  the  name  of  Varangians,  served  for  a  long  series  of 
J  ears  as  the  Greek  emperors'  body-guards,  stories  have  reached  us  of 
the  particular  kinds  of  battle  axes  which  they  wielded  with  midi 
•trengtli." — Worsaae's  Danes  in  England,  Sfc.^  p.  46. 


124         THE  TOPOGEAPHT  OF  IRELAND. 

to  direct  the  blow  with  such  force  that  neither  the  helmeti 
which  protect  our  heads,  nor  the  platting  of  the  coat  of  mail 
which  defends  the  rest  of  our  bodies,  can  resist  the  stroke.  Thug 
it  has  happened,  in  my  own  time,  that  one  blow  of  the  axe 
has  cut  off  a  knight's  thigh,  although  it  was  incased  in 
iron,  the  thigh  and  leg  falling  on  one  side  of  his  horse, 
and  the  body  of  the  dying  horseman  on  the  other.  When 
other  weapons  fail,  they  hurl  stones  against  the  enemy  in 
battle  with  such  quickness  and  dexterity,  that  they  do  more 
execution  than  the  slingers  of  any  other  nation. 

The  Irish  are  a  rude  people,  subsisting  on  the  produce  of 
their  cattle  only,  and  living  themselves  like  beasts — a  people 
that  has  not  yet  departed  from  the  primitive  habits  of  pastoral 
life.  In  the  common  course  of  things,  mankind  progresses 
from  the  forest  to  the  field,  from  the  field  to  the  town,  and 
to  the  social  condition  of  citizens  ;^  but  this  nation,  holding 
agricultural  labour  in  contempt,  and  little  cove'^ng  the 
wealth  of  towns,  as  well  as  being  exceedingly  averse 
to  civil  institutions — lead  the  same  life  their  fathers 
did  in  the  woods  and  open  pastures,  neither  willing  to 
abandon  their  old  habits  or  learn  anything  new.  They, 
therefore,  only  make  patches  of  tillage ;  their  pastures  are 
short  of  herbage ;  cultivation  is  very  rare,  and  there  is 
scarcely  any  land  sown.  This  want  of  tilled  fields  arises 
from  the  neglect  of  those  who  should  cultivate  them  ;  for 
there  are  large  tracts  which  are  naturally  fertile  and  pro- 
ductive. The  whole  habits  of  the  people  are  contrary  to 
agricultural  pursuits,  so  that  the  rich  glebe  is  barren  fop 
want  of  husbandmen,  the  fields  demanding  labour  which  is 
not  forthcoming. 

Very  few  sorts  of  fruit-trees  are  found  in  this  country,  a 
defect  arising  not  from  the  nature  of  the  soil,  but  from 

^  We  have  here  the  progress  from  the  pastoral  to  the  agricultural 
life,  and  social  state,  verj  justly  described,  and  we  find  that  the  Irish 
in  the  time  of  Giraldus  had  not  advanced  beyond  the  earliest  stage. 
Ihis  may  have  resulted  in  part  from  other  causes  besides  the  natural 
bent  of  the  people.  Britain  owed  the  first  rudiments  of  progress  to 
the  Eoman  civilization  ;  other  races  were  successively  mingled  with 
her  population  ;  and  she  had  powerful  kings,  and  a  wealthy  aristocracy, 
while  Ireland  was  stiU  parcelled  out  under  a  number  of  petty  prinoet, 
and  a  prey  to  internal  feuds. 


CHAEACTEE   AND    HABITS    OT    THE    lEISH.  125 

want  of  industry  in  planting  them  ;  for  the  lazy  husband- 
man does  not  take  the  trouble  to  plant  the  foreign  sorts 
which  would  grow  very  well  here.  There  are  four  kinds  of 
trees  indigenous  in  Britain  which  are  wanting  here.  Two  of 
them  are  fruit-bearing  trees,  the  chesnut  and  beech ;  the 
other  tw^o,  the  arulus^  and  the  box,  though  they  bear  no 
fruit,  are  serviceable  for  making  cups  and  handles.  Yews, 
with  their  bitter  sap,  are  more  frequently  to  be  found 
in  this  country  than  in  any  other  I  have  visited ;  but  you 
will  see  them  principally  in  old  cemeteries  and  sacred  places, 
where  they  were  planted  in  ancient  times  by  the  hands  of 
holy  men,  to  give  them  what  ornament  and  beauty  they 
could.^  The  Ibrests  of  Ireland  also  abound  with  fir-trees, 
producing  frankincense  and  incense.^  There  are  also  veins 
of  various  kinds  of  metals  ramifying  in  the  bowels  of  the 
earth,  which,  from  the  same  idle  habits,  are  not  worked 
and  turned  to  account.  Even  gold,  which  the  people  re- 
quire in  large  quantities,  and  still  covet  in  a  way  that 
speaks  their  Spanish  origin,  is  brought  here  by  the  mer- 
chants who  traverse  the  ocean  for  the  purposes  of  commerce. 
They  neither  employ  themselves  in  the  manufacture  of  flax 
or  wool,  or  in  any  kind  of  trade  or  mechanical  art ;  but 
abandoning  themselves  to  idleness,  and  immersed  in 
sloth,  their  greatest  delight  is  to  be  exempt  from  toil,  their 
richest  possession  the  enjoyment  of  liberty. 

This  people,  then,  is  truly  barbarous,  being  not  only 
barbarous  in  their  dress,  but  suffering  their  hair  and  beards 
{barbis)  to  grow  enormously  in  an  uncouth  manner,  just 
like  the  modern  fashion  recently  introduced  ;^  indeed,  all 
their  habits  are  barbarisms.     But   habits  are  formed  by 

^  Other  MSS.  read  alarus  ;  but  it  is  uncertain  to  what  tree  he  alludes. 

'  See  before,  B,  ii.  c.  54. 

'  "  Abundat  et  abiete  sylvositas  Diberniae,  thuris  et  incensi  matre." 
Giraldus  means,  no  doubt,  the  pinua  sylvestris^  which  is  also  indigenous 
in  Scotland,  whence  it  has  acquired  its  common  name  of  the  Scotch 
fir.  He  speaks  somewhat  poetically  of  its  inflammable  products  in 
resin  and  pitch. 

*  Giraldus  alludes  probably  to  the  fashion  of  wearing  the  hair  and 
beard  long,  which  came  into  vogue  in  the  reign  of  Henry  I.,  to  the  great 
scandal  of  the  clergy  ;  so  that  our  author  slily  classes  it  with  the  bar- 
barisms of  an  uncivilized  race.  See  Orderic.  Vital,  vol.  iii.  p.  363-4| 
m  Bohn's  Antiq,  Lib.,  and  the  notes. 


126  THE  TOPOOEAPHT  OF  IRELAND. 

mutual  intercourse  ;  and  as  this  people  inhabit  a  country  bo 
remote  from  the  rest  of  the  world,  and  lying  at  its  furthest 
extremity,  forming,  as  it  were,  another  world,  and  are  thus 
secluded  from  civilized  nations,  they  learn  nothing,  and 
practise  nothing  but  the  barbarism  in  which  they  are  bom 
and  bred,  and  which  sticks  to  them  like  a  second  nature. 
Whatever  natural  gifts  they  possess  are  excellent,  in  what- 
ever requires  industry  they  are  worthless. 

CHAPTEE  XI. 

OF   THE   INCOMPARABLE    SKILL    OF    THE   lEISH  IN    PLATINO 
UPON   MUSICAL    INSTHUMENTS. 

The  only  thing  to  which  I  find  that  this  people  apply  a 
commendable  industry  is  playing  upon  musical  instruments  ; 
in  w^hich  they  are  incomparably  more  skilful  than  any  other 
nation  I  have  ever  seen.  For  their  modulation  on  these 
instruments,  unlike  that  of  the  Britons  to  which  I  am  ac- 
customed, is  not  slow  and  harsh,  but  lively  and  rapid,  while 
the  harmony  is  both  sweet  and  gay.  It  is  astonishing  that 
in  so  complex  and  rapid  a  movement  of  the  fingers,  the 
musical  proportions  can  be  preserved,  and  that  throughout 
the  difficult  modulations  on  their  various  instruments,  the 
harmony  is  completed  with  such  a  sweet  velocity,  so  unequal 
an  equality,  so  discordant  a  concord,  as  if  the  chords 
sounded  together  fourths  or  fifths.^  They  always  begin 
from  B  flat,  and  return  to  the  same,  that  the  whole  may  be 
completed  under  the  sweetness  of  a  pleasing  sound.  They 
enter  into  a  movement,  and  conclude  it  in  so  delicate  a 
manner,  and  play  the  little  notes  so  sportively  under  the 
blunter  sounds  of  the  base  strings,  enlivening  with  wanton 
levity,  or  communicating  a  deeper  internal  sensation  of  plea- 
sure, so  that  the  perfection  of  their  art  appears  in  the 
concealment  of  it. 

Si  lateat  prosit ; . . .  ferat  ars  deprensa  pudorem. 
From  this  cause,  those  very  strains  which  afford  deep  and 
unspeakable   mental  delight  to   those  who  have  skilfully 

'  Seu  diateperon^  seu  diapente.  "  The  antients  acknowledged  no 
other  conc!ords  than  the  diapason,  the  diapente,  and  the  diateperon." — 
Hawking  History  of  Music,  i.  273.  Giraldus  repeats  this  account  o 
the  Irish  ijistrumental  music  in  his  Description  of  Wales,  B.  i.  c.  12. 


BENEFICIAL   EEFECTS    OF    MUSIC.  127 

penetrated  into  the  mysteries  of  the  art,  fatigue  rather  thai; 
gratify  the  ears  of  others,  who  seeing  do  not  perceive,  and 
hearing  do  not  understand  ;^  and  by  whom  the  finest  music 
is  esteemed  no  better  than  a  confused  and  disorderly  noise, 
and  will  be  heard  with  unwillingness  and  disgust.  It 
must  be  remarked,  however,  that  both  Scotland  and  "Wales 
strive  to  rival  Ireland  in  the  art  of  music ;  the  former  from 
its  community  of  race,  the  latter  from  its  contiguity  and 
facility  of  communication.  Ireland  only  uses  and  delights 
in  two  instruments,  the  harp  and  the  tabor.  Scotland 
has  three,  the  harp,  the  tabor,  and  the  crowth  or  crowd ; 
and  Wales,  the  harp,  the  pipes,  and  the  crowd.^  The  Irish 
also  used  strings  of  brass  instead  of  leather.  Scotland  at 
the  present  day,  in  the  opinion  of  many  persons,  is  not  only 
equal  to  Ireland,  her  teacher,  in  musical  skill,  but  excels 
her ;  so  that  they  now  look  to  that  country  as  the  foun- 
tain head  of  this  science. 

CHAPTEE  XII. 

ON   THE    BENEFICIAL   EFFECTS    OF   MUSIC. 

The  sweet  harmony  of  music  not  only  affords  us  pleasures, 
but  renders  us  important  services.  It  greatly  cheers  the 
drooping  spirit,  clears  the  face  from  clouds,  smooths  the 
wrinkled  brow,  checks  moroseness,  promotes  hilarity  ;  of  ali 
the  most  pleasant  things  in  the  world,  nothing  more  delights 
and  enlivens  the  human  heart.    There  are  two  things  which, 

'  Caradoc  of  Llancarvan,  in  his  Chronicle  of  Wales,  says,  that 
Griffith  ap  Conan,  king  of  Wales,  being  by  his  mother  and  grand- 
mother an  Irishman,  and  also  born  in  Ireland,  carried  with  him  from 
thence  into  Wales  divers  cunning  musicians,  who  devised  in  a  manner 
aU  the  instrumental  music  there,  as  appears  both  by  tlie  books  written 
of  the  same,  and  by  the  tunes  and  measures  used  among  them  to  thia 
day. 

2  Choro,  the  crowth  or  crowd,  which  was  played  upon  by  a  sort  of 
bow,  and  is  supposed  to  have  been  the  origin  of  the  violin.  The 
clairseach  of  the  Irish,  and  harp  of  the  Britons,  diflPered  in  form  and 
the  number  of  strings  from  the  lyra  or  cithara  of  the  ancients.  The 
shape  of  the  former  is  preserved  in  the  national  escutcheon.  Yenan- 
tius  Fortimatus  appears  to  draw  a  distinction  between  these  several  in- 
•truments — 

*•  Roman  usque  lyra  plaudat  tibi,  Barbarus  harpa^ 
Grsecus  achillea,  crotta  Brittana  canat." 

B.  viL  c  & 


128  THE  TOPOGRAPHY  OF  lEELAND. 

more  than  any  other,  refresh  and  delight  the  mind,  namely, 
sweet  odours  and  music.  Man,  as  it  were,  feeds  upon 
sweet  odours  and  sweet  music.  In  whatever  pursuit  the 
mind  is  engaged,  it  draws  forth  the  genius,  and  by  means  of 
insensible  things  quickens  the  senses  with  sensible  effect. 
Hence  in  bold  men  it  excites  courage,  and  in  the  religious 
it  nourishes  and  promotes  good  feeling.  Hence  it  hap- 
pened that  bishops  and  abbots  and  holy  men  in  Ireland 
were  in  the  habit  of  carrying  their  harps  with  them  in  their 
peregrinations,  and  found  pious  delight  in  playing  upon 
them.  In  consequence  of  this,  St.  Kelvin's  harp  was  held 
in  great  reverence  by  the  natives,  and  to  this  day  is  con- 
sidered a  valuable  relic,  possessed  of  great  virtues.^ 

Further,  the  war-trumpet,  with  its  blast,  shows  the  cor- 
responding effect  of  music,  inasmuch  as  when  its  loud 
alarm  gives  the  signal  for  battle,  its  echo  raises  the  spirit  of 
the  brave  to  the  highest  pitch.  Sometimes  music  has  the 
contrary  effect,  for  its  influence  may  be  used  to  heighten 
the  pleasures  of  the  vicious,  as  well  as  to  animate  the  vir- 
tuous and  brave.  It  is  written  of  Alexander  of  Macedon, 
that  when  on  some  occasion  he  heard  the  sweet  tones  of  a 
harp,  while  at  table  with  his  friends,  he  had  the  strings 
broken.  Upon  being  asked  why  he  had  done  this,  he  re- 
plied, "It  is  better  that  chords  should  be  broken  than  hearts 
[corc^a]."  For  he  was  sensible,  from  his  knowledge  ol 
human  weakness,  that  his  mind  was  highly  excited,  however 
he  might  struggle  against  it,  by  what  he  pointed  out  to 
them ;  and  that  such  soft  strains  inclined  him  rather  to 
pleasure  (to  which,  perhaps,  he  was  already  disposed)  than 
to  war;  to  indulgence  than  to  hardship ;  to  Venus  than  to 
virtue ;  to  voluptuousness,  rather  than  to  voluntary  sacri- 
fices of  his  ease.  For  our  passions  are  by  no  means  in  our 
own  power. 

Moreover,  music  soothes  disease  and  pain ;  the  sounds 
which  strike  the  ear  operating  within,  and  either  healing  our 
maladies,  or  enabling  us  to  bear  them  with  greater  patience. 
It  is  a  comfort  to  all,  and  an  effectual  remedy  to  many  ;  for 
there  are  no  sufferings  which  it  will  not  mitigate,  and  there 

'  This  relic  is  lost ;  but  the  harp  of  king  Brian  Boroimhe  is  still 
preserved  it!  the  library  of  Trin.  Col.  Dublin.  See  a  description  of  th« 
Irish  harp  in  Lynch,  '*  Cambrensis  Eversus,"  c.  iv.  p.  37. 


BEK-EFICIAL   EFFECTS    OF   MUSIC.  129 

are  some  which  it  cures.  David's  lyre  restrained  the  un- 
clean spirit  from  vexing  Saul,  and  while  he  played  his. 
trouble  ceased  ;  but  as  soon  as  the  strains  ceased,  he  was 
vexed  again.  What  Solomon  says  may,  however,  appear 
opposed  to  this  :  "  Music  is  out  of  season  in  time  of  afflic- 
tion." Eor  the  man  who  can  amuse  himself  with  singing 
when  he  is  in  trouble,  and  affect  to  be  gay  and  lift  his  voice 
in  jocund  strains  at  the  moment  he  is  suffering  from  severe 
pain,  must  be  either  a  stoic  or  a  fool.  But  although  any 
sort  of  trouble,  while  it  is  fresh  and  on  the  increase,  refuses 
comfort,  still  under  the  alleviating  influence  of  time  it  loses 
its  sting  and  admits  of  consolation.  Grrief  which  can  neither 
be  mitigated  by  reason,  nor  cured  by  medicine,  yields  to 
the  softening  effects  of  time,  which  brings  all  evils  to  an 
end.  For  such  is  the  constitution  of  human  nature,  that 
things  are  always  either  on  the  increase  or  decrease,  are 
getting  better  or  growing  worse,  and  never  stand  still. 
When  they  have  reached  their  summit,  the  fall  is  far  more 
rapid  than  the  rise.  If,  therefore,  you  discern  the  times  and 
observe  moderation,  having  a  mind  well  toned  and  regulated 
under  all  circumstances,  you  may  turn  to  good  account  what 
would  be  otherwise  out  of  season. 

*'  Quis  matrera,  nisi  mentis  inops,  in  funere  nati 
Flere  neget  ?     Non  hoc  ilia  nionenda  loco  est." 

Wherefore — 

"  Dum  dolor  in  cursu  est,  currenti  cede  dolori  j 
Tempore  cum  residet,  turn  medicina  valet." 

It  appears,  then,  that  music  acts  in  contrary  ways  ;  when 
employed  to  give  intensity  to  the  feelings,  it  inflames , 
when  to  abate  them,  it  lulls.  Hence  the  Irish  and  Spani- 
ards, and  some  other  nations,  mix  plaintive  music  with 
their  funereal  wailings,^  giving  poignancy  to  their  present 
grief,  as  well  as,  perhaps,  tranquillizing  the  mind  when  the 
worst  is  past.  Music  also  alleviates  toil,  and  in  labour  of 
various  kinds  the  fatigue  is  cheered  by  sounds  uttered  in 
measured  time.  Hence,  artificers  of  all  sorts  relieve  the 
weariness  of  their  tasks  by  songs.  The  very  beasts,  not 
Co  speak  of  serpents,  and  birds,  and  porpoises,  are  attracted 

'  Every  one  knows  that  among  the  Irish  this  custom  has  lastod  till 
tLa  present  day. 


180  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF    IKELAIST). 

by  musical  harmony  to  listen  to  its  melody ;  and  what  ii 
still  more  remarkable,  swarms  of  bees  are  recalled  to  their 
hives,  and  induced  to  settle,  by  musical  sounds.  I  have 
sometimes  observed,  when  on  a  voyage,  shoals  of  porpoises 
long  following  in  the  wake  of  the  ship  when  she  pursuing  her 
course,  and  how  they  leaped  above  the  surface,  and  erected 
their  ears  to  listen  to  the  tones  of  the  harp  or  the  trumpet. 
Moreover,  as  Isidore  remarks,  "  No  teaching  can  be  perfect 
without  harmony.  Indeed,  there  is  nothing  in  which  it  is 
not  found.  The  world  itself  is  said  to  be  harmoniously 
formed,  and  the  very  heavens  revolve  amidst  the  harmony 
of  the  spheres.  Sounds,  the  materials  of  which  melodies 
are  composed,  are  threefold ;  first,  they  are  harmonic,  being 
produced  by  the  voices  of  singers  ;  secondly, they  are  organic, 
being  produced  by  wind ;  thirdly,  they  are  rythmical,  pro- 
duced by  the  touch  of  the  fingers.  For  sounds  are  either 
produced  by  the  voice,  through  the  throat,  or  by  wind,  as 
a  trumpet  or  pipe  ;  or  by  the  touch,  as  by  the  harp,  or  any 
other  instrument  the  melody  of  which  is  produced  by  the 
finger."  What  Cassiodorus  says  in  favour  of  the  harp,  well 
deserves  a  place  here.  He  writes  thus :  "  These  are  the  benefits 
which  the  harp  confers  :  — It  changes  grief  and  melancholy 
to  mirth  ;  assuages  the  eff'ervescence  of  rage ;  charms  away 
the  most  savage  cruelty;  eff'aces  cowardice;  rouses  the  languid 
and  sleepy  ;  and  sheds  a  soothing  repose  on  the  wakeful.  It 
recalls  man  from  foul  lusts  to  the  love  of  chastity ;  and  heals 
that  weariness  of  the  mind  which  is  always  adverse  to  good 
thoughts.  It  converts  pernicious  sloth  into  kindly  succour ; 
and,  what  is  the  most  blessed  sort  of  cure,  expels  the  pas- 
sions of  the  mind  by  its  sweetest  of  pleasures.  It  soothes 
the  spirit  through  the  body,  and  by  the  mere  sense  of 
hearing  moulds  it  to  its  will,  making  use  of  insensible 
things  to  exercise  dominion  over  the  senses.  The 
divine  mercy  has  scattered  abroad  its  favours,  and  made 
all  its  works  to  be  highly  praised.  David's  lyre  ex- 
pelled the  devil ;  the  evil  spirit  obeyed  its  sound ;  and 
while  the  minstrel  sung  to  the  harp,  thrice  was  the  king 
released  from  the  foul  bondage  to  which  he  had  been  sub- 
jected by  his  spiritual  enemy."  I  have  made  a  delightful 
digression,  but  to  the  purpose  ;  for  it  is  always  pleasant  to 
OODYerse  of  science  with  those  who  are  skilled  in  it. 


AF  BMENENT    PATEON    OF   MUSICAL    INSTETJMENTa.       131 

CHAPTEE  XIII. 

OF    THE    FIRST    INVENTORS    OF    THE    AET    OF    MUSIC. 

We  read  in  the  Book  of  Genesis,  that  Tubal,  a  descendant 
of  Cain,  who  lived  before  the  flood,  was  the  inventor  of 
music  ;  and  he  is  called  "  the  father  of  all  such  as  handle 
the  harp  and  organ." ^  And,  as  Adam  had  heard  some  pro- 
phecy of  two  judgments  to  come,  in  order  that  the  art 
which  had  been  invented  might  not  be  lost,  he  inscribed  it 
on  two  columns,  one  of  stone,  the  other  of  brick ;  that  the 
one  migbt  not  be  dissolved  by  the  flood,  nor  the  other 
melted  in  the  fire.  In  the  teaching  of  the  philosophers  we 
are  told  that  the  rudiments  of  this  science  were  introduced 
by  Pythagoras,  from  the  sounds  given  by  the  stroke  of 
hammers,  and  by  strings  struck  while  they  were  stretched. 
Some,  however,  say  that  Linus  of  Thebes,  Zetus,  and  Anxeos, 
were  the  first  who  were  celebrated  for  their  musical  skill ; 
after  whom  the  science  gradually  made  such  progress,  that 
it  became  as  disgraceful  to  know  nothing  of  music  as  not  to 
have  learned  to  read. 

CHAPTEE    XIY. 

OF    AN    eminent    PATRON    AND    IMPROVER    OF    MUSICAL 
INSTRUMENTS. 

King  David  was  an  eminent  patron  and  improver  of  musi- 
cal instruments,  many  of  which  he  invented,  as  well  as 
made  additions  to  all.  He  was  the  inventor  of  the  psaltery 
with  ten  strings,  and  of  several  other  instruments.  Know- 
ing well  the  influence  of  music,  he  exhorted  the  people  to 
praise  the  Lord  with  musical  instruments,  that  the  Creator 
might  receive  the  praises  of  his  creatures  in  manifold  ways ; 
and  that  the  feelings  of  the  performers  in  acts  of  melody 
might  be  inflamed  to  higher  degrees  of  divine  love.  Hence 
Augustine  says,  in  his  book  of  Confessions,  "  As  often  as  I 
take  more  pleasure  in  the  sound  than  in  the  sense,  I  confess 
that  I  am  guilty  of  mortal  sin.  But  it  is  well  appointed  by 
the  church,  that  her  services  in  praise  of  God  shall  be  per- 
formed with  musical  chaunts,  that  so,  by  the  influence  of 
internal  melody,  the  hearts  of  the  faithful  should  be  iQore 
1  Gen.  ir.  21 


132  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF   lEELAJNT). 

powerfully  led  to  the  duties  of  piety,"  And  again,  in  the 
same  book. — "  How  often  have  I  shed  tears,  deeply  moved 
by  the  sweet  sounds  of  hymns  and  canticles  in  the  church. 
My  ears  drank  in  the  voices  of  the  singers,  and  my  heart 
was  melted  to  receive  the  truth  ;  it  glowed  with  pious 
emotions,  while  my  tears  flowed,  and  it  was  well  for  me  to 
be  there."  * 

CHAPTEE  XY. 

WHETTCE   MUSIC    DEBITED    ITS   KAME. 

Music  derived  its  name  from  the  Muses ;  and  the  Muses 
are  so  called  from  the  Greek  word  mazo,^  which  means  to 
investigate,  because  by  them,  as  the  ancients  supposed,  the 
powers  of  the  human  voice  in  singing  were  first  discovered. 
But  enough  of  this ;  let  us  now  return  to  our  history. 

CHAPTEE  XVI. 

HOW  MANY  KINGS  EEIGNED  FEOM  HEEIMON  TO  THE  COMING 

OF  Patrick:,  by  whom  the  island  was  conyeeted  to 

THE    faith. 

Feom  the  first  arrival,  then,  of  this  king,  namely,  Herimon,  to 
the  coming  of  Patrick,  one  hundred  and  thirty-one  kings  of 
the  same  race  reigned  in  Ireland.  Patrick,  a  native  of  Bri- 
tain, and  a  man  eminent  for  the  sanctity  of  his  life,  came 
over  to  the  island  during  the  reign  of  Laegerius,  the  son  of 
Nellus  the  Great  -^  and  finding  the  nation  sunk  in  idolatry, 
and  immersed  in  all  kinds  of  superstitions,  he  w^as  the  first 
who,  aided  by  divine  grace,  preached  the  faith  of  Christ,  and 
planted  it  among  them.     The  people  flocking  in  crowds  to 

'  Conf.  1.  ix.  c.  6.  The  Ambrosian  chant  was  established  in  the 
Church  of  Milan,  of  which  St.  Augustine  speaks  in  this  beautiful 
passage.  On  the  introduction  of  music  into  the  chui-ch,  see  Burney's 
History,  vol.  ii,  c.  i. 

*  The  Greek  word  is  /iow  or  nanii,  vehementer  cupio,  ut  Eustathius 
•xpon.  etiam  ?)jrw,  qusero. 

^  Laeghaire,  the  son  of  Nial ;  the  latter,  popularly  called  Kial  of  the 
Nine  Hostages,  was  one  of  the  most  powerful  monarchs  of  the  Milesian 
race.  Laeghaire  is  said  to  have  ascended  the  throne  in  the  year  428, 
and  St.  Patrick  is  reported  to  have  come  to  Ireland  in  the  fourth  year  o/ 
this  reign,  that  is  in  A.D.  432.  The  saint  is  said  to  have  died  in  A-X 
4», 


"FOTTSL  AfiCHIEPISCOPAL    SEES    IN   1152.  133 

be  baptized  by  him,  and  tlie  whole  island  having  been  con- 
verted to  Christianity,  he  chose  Armagh  for  his  see,  making  it 
the  [ecclesiastical]  metropolis,  and  fixing  there  the  primacy 
over  the  whole  of  Ireland.  He  also  established  bishops  in 
suitable  places,  that,  being  called  to  share  his  labours,  they 
might  water  what  he  had  planted,  and  so  God  might  give 
the  increase. 

It  seems  proper  to  remark  in  this  place,  that  when  the 
before-mentioned  Nellus  became  sole  king  of  Ireland,  the 
six  sons  of  Muredus,  king  of  Ulster,  sailed  with  a  numerous 
fleet  and  took  possession  of  the  northern  parts  of  Britain  -^ 
and  their  posterity,  known  by  the  special  name  of  Scots, 
inhabit  that  corner  of  Britain  to  the  present  day. 

What  caused  them  to  migrate  there,  and  how  and  with 
what  treachery,  rather  than  force,  they  expelled  from  those 
parts  the  nation  of  the  Picts,  long  so  powerful,  and  vastly 
excelling  them  in  arms  and  valour,  it  will  be  my  business 
o  relate,  when  I  come  to  treat  of  the  remarkable  topogra- 
)hy  of  that  part  of  Britain."  Another  benefit,  worthy,  per- 
laps,  of  the  dignity  of  the  subject,  and  attractive  to  studious 
ninds,  will  then  be  conferred  by  the  author  on  his  own  age. 

CHAPTEE  XVII. 

THAT  THEBE  WERE  NO  ARCHBISHOPS  IN  IRELAND  BEFORE 
THE  ARRIVAL  OF  JOHN  PAPTRIO,  WHO  PLANTED  THERE 
FOUR  ARCHIEPISCOPAL  SEES,  IN  THE  YEAR  OF  OUR  LORD 
1152. 

There  were  no  archbishops  in  Ireland,  but  the  bishops  con- 
secrated each  other  mutually,  until  John  Papyrio  came  as 
legate    from  the  see  of  E.ome   not   many  years  ago.^     He 

'  This  was  the  celebrated  Dalreadic  colony,  but  Giraldus  has  made 
fiome  confusion  of  dates  and  circumstances  It  was  in  the  course  of 
the  fifth  century  that  the  Irish  tribe  ol  Dalreada  in  Ulster  began  to 
Bettle  on  the  promontory  of  Cantyre,  whence  they  gradually  spread 
theuselves  over  the  surrounding  districts.  There  was  no  AJuredus,  or 
Muireadhach,  king  of  Ulster,  in  the  time  of  Isial,  but  a  king  of  that 
name  began  to  reign  in  451. 

2  Giraldus  speaks  elsewhere  of  his  intention  to  write  a  Topography 
of  Scotland,  but  nothing  is  known  of  it.  See  the  present  book,  Dig- 
tine,  i.  c.  21. 

^  John  Fapyro  was  sent  as  legate  to  Ireland  by  Pope  Eugeniu»  III, 
irho  occupifd  the  papal  ehair  irom  1145  to  1153. 


134  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF    lEEL^WD. 

brougbt  four  palls  to  Ireland,  one  of  which  he  conferred  on 
Armagh ;  another  he  gave  to  Dublin,  where  Gregory  was 
then  bishop  ;  the  third  to  Cashel ;  the  fourth  to  Tuam  (Toe- 
niam),  in  Connaught.  St.  Patrick  died  and  rested  in  the  Lord 
in  the  one  hundred  and  twentieth  year  of  his  age,  in  the  year 
of  our  Lord  485,  and  from  the  arrival  of  the  Irish  1800.^ 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

HOW  THE  BODIES  OF  THEEE  SAINTS,  PATEICK,  COLT7MBA, 
AND  BEIOIT,  WEEE  FOUND  IN  THESE  OUE  DATS  AT  THB 
CITY    OF    DOWN,  IN    TJLSTEE,  AND    TEANSLATED. 

St.  Columba  and  St.  Brigit  were  contemporaries  with  St. 
Patrick  ;  and  the  bodies  of  all  three  were  deposited  in  Ulster 
in  the  same  city,  namely,  Down,  where  they  were  discovered 
in  my  time,  that  is,  in  the  year  that  the  lord  earl  John 
first  came  to  Ireland.  They  were  lying  in  a  vault,  contain- 
ing three  recesses,  the  body  of  St.  Patrick  lying  in  the 
centre,  and  those  of  the  two  others,  one  on  each  side.  John 
de  Courcy  was  then  governor,^  and  under  his  directions 
these  three  noble  treasures  were  discovered,  through  a  divine 
revelation,  and  translated.  The  following  verses  were 
written  on  the  occasion : — 

"In  burgo  Duno,  tumulo  ttimxilantur  in  uno 
Brigida,  Patritius,  atque  Columba  plus." 
**  Patrick,  Columba,  Brigit,  rest  in  glorious  Down  ; 
Lie  in  one  tomb,  and  consecrate  the  town." 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

HOW   THE    lEISH  AEE  YEET  IGNOEANT    OF   THE   ETJDIMENTS 
OF    THE    FAITH. 

The  faith  having  been  planted  in  the  island  from  the  time 
of  St,  Patrick,  so  many  ages  ago,  and  propagated  almost 
ever  since,  it  is  wonderful  that  this  nation  should  remain  to 
this  day  so  very  ignorant  of  the  rudiments  of  Christianity. 
It  is  indeed  a  must  filthy  race,  a  race  sunk  in  vice,  a  race 

*  The  following  scbolium,  or  various  reading,  is  given  in  the  margin 
of  our  printed  edition  :— "  Elsewhere,  in  the  year  of  his  age  123,  in  the 
year  of  our  Lord  493,  when  Fehx  I.  was  pope,  Anastasius  emperor, 
AvireHus  Ambrosius  ruling  in  Britain,  and  Forkerus  in  Ireland." 

2  See  afterwards,  "  Conquest  of  Ireland,"  B.  i.  cc.  15,  16,  17. 


AliOMlNABLE    TKEAOHERY    OF    THE    IRISH.  135 

more  ignorant  than  all  other  nations  of  the  first  principles 
of  the  faith.  Hitherto  they  neither  pay  tithes  nor  first 
fruits  ;  they  do  not  contract  marriages,  nor  shun  incestuous 
connections  ;  they  frequent  not  the  church  of  God  with 
proper  reverence.  Nay,  what  is  most  detestable,  and  not 
only  contrary  to  the  Gospel,  but  to  every  thing  timt  is 
right,  in  many  parts  of  Ireland  brothers  (I  will  not  say 
marry)  seduce  and  debauch  the  wives  of  their  brothers 
deceased,  and  have  incestuous  intercourse  with  them ;  ad- 
hering in  this  to  the  letter,  and  not  to  the  spirit,  of  the  Old 
Testament ;'  and  following  the  example  of  men  of  old  in 
their  vices  more  willingly  than  in  their  virtues. 

CHAPTER  XX. 

OF  THEIR  ABOMINABLE  TREACHERY. 

They  are  given  to  treachery  more  than  any  other  nation,  and 
never  keep  the  faith  they  have  pledged,  neither  shame  nor  fear 
withholding  them  from  constantly  violating  the  most  solemn 
obligations,  which,  when  entered  into  with  themselves,  they 
are  above  all  things  anxious  to  have  observed.  So  that, 
when  you  have  used  the  utmost  precaution,  when  you  have 
been  most  vigilant,  for  your  own  security  and  safety,  by 
requiring  oaths  and  hostages,  by  treaties  of  alliance  firmly 
made,  and  by  benefits  of  all  kinds  conferred,  then  begins 
your  time  to  fear;  for  then  especially  their  treachery  is 
awake,  when  they  suppose  that,  relying  in  the  fulness  of 
your  security,  you  are  ofi"  your  guard.  That  is  the  moment 
for  them  to  fly  to  their  citadel  of  wickedness,  turn  against 
you  their  weapons  of  deceit,  and  endeavour  to  do  you  injury, 
by  taking  the  opportunity  of  catching  you  unawares. 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

HOW   THEY   ALWAYS    CARRY    AN    AXE    IN    THEIR    HANDS 
INSTEAD    OF   A  STAFF. 

From  an  ancient  and  wicked  custom,  they  always  carry 
an  axe  in  their  hands  instead  of  a  staff,  that  they  may  be 
ready  promptly  to  execute  whatever  iniquity  their  minds 
■uggest.     Wherever  they  go  they  carry  this  weapon  with 

^  See  Deut.  xzy.  5 ;  Mark  xii.  19 ;  and  Luke  xx.  28. 


136  THE    TOPOGEAPHT   OF    IRELAK"D. 

them,  and  watching  their  opportunity  as  occasion  offers,  it 
has  not  to  be  unsheathed  like  a  sword,  nor  bent  like  a  bow, 
or  thrust  out  like  a  spear.  Eaised  a  little,  without  any 
preparation,  it  deals  a  deadly  wound.  They  have,  there- 
fore, always  at  hand,  nay,  in  their  hands,  that  which  is  suf- 
ficient to  inflict  death.  From  these  axes  [^securibusl  there 
is  no  security  :  while  you  fancy  yourself  secure,  you  will 
feel  the  axe  [securim'].  You  put  yourself  heedlessly  in  dan- 
ger, if  you  permit  the  axe,  and  omit  to  take  precautions  for 
your  security.  This  race  is  inconstant,  changeable,  wily, 
and  cunning.  It  is  an  unstable  race,  stable  only  in  its  insta- 
bility, faithful  only  in  its  unfaithfulness. 

"  Hoc  solum  servans,  quod  nunquam  firma,  fidele  j 
Hoc  solum  retinens,  quod  nesciat  esse  fideles." 

"  Firm  only  in  their  faithless  levity, 
And  true  in  nought  but  infidelity." 

Their  arts  are,  therefore,  more  to  be  feared  than  their 
arms,  their  friendship  than  their  fire-brands,  their  sweeta 
than  their  bitters,  their  malignity  than  their  martial  spirit, 
their  treachery  than  their  open  attacks,  their  specious  friend- 
ship than  their  spiteful  enmity.^  For  this  is  their  opinion : — 

"Dolus  an  virtus  quis  in  hoste  requirat  ?" 

"  Who  will  be  prompt  to  ask  a  foe, 
If  fraud  or  valour  deal  the  blow  ?'* 

CHAPTEB,  XXII. 

or    A  KEW   MODE    OF   MAKIIS'G   A   LEAGUE  :    A   PEOOr   OJ 
THEIR    WICKEDNESS. 

Amofg  many  other  inventions  of  their  abominable  guile, 
there  is  one  which  especially  proves  it.  When  they  wish  to 
take  off  any  one,  they  assemble  in  company  with  him  at 
some  holy  place,  under  the  guise  of  religious  and  peaceful 
meeting;  then  they  go  in  procession  round  the  church,  and 
afterwards,  entering  within  its  walls,  they  confederate  them- 
selves in  an  indissoluble  alliance  before  the  altar,  with  oatha 
prodigally  multiplied  upon  the  relics  of  the  saints,  and  con- 

^  In  the  original  the  whole  of  this  chapter  consists  of  a  play  upOB 
■r'>rds,  whinh  cannot  be  effectually  represented  in  the  translation. 


VICES    or   THE    lEISH    INFECTIOUS.  137 

firmed  by  the  celebration  of  the  mass  and  prayers  of  tho 
holy  priests,  as  if  it  were  a  solemn  ajBS^aDce.  At  length,  as 
a  still  stronger  ratification  of  their  league,  and,  as  it  were, 
the  completion  of  the  affair,  they  drink  each  others'  blood, 
which  is  shed  for  the  purpose.  This  custom  has  been  handed 
down  to  them  from  the  rites  of  the  heathens,  who  were  wont 
to  seal  their  treaties  with  blood.  How  often,  in  the  very 
act  of  such  an  alliance  being  made  by  bloody  and  deceitful 
men,  has  so  much  blood  been  fraudulently  and  iniquitously 
spilt,  that  one  or  other  of  them  has  fainted  on  the  spot ! 
How  often  has  the  same  hour  which  witnessed  the  contract, 
or  that  which  followed  it,  seen  it  broken  in  an  unheard-of 
manner  by  a  bloody  divorce ! 

CHAPTEE  XXIII. 

HOW  THEY  LOYE  THEIR  EOSTEa-CHILDREN  AND  EOSTEE- 
BEOTHEES,  AND  HATE  THEIE  OWN  BEOTHEES  AND  KIN- 
DEED. 

"Woe  to  brothers  among  a  barbarous  race !  "Woe  also  to 
kinsmen  !  "While  alive,  they  pursue  them  to  destruction  ; 
and  even  when  dead  they  leave  it  to  others  to  avenge  their 
murder.  If  they  have  any  feeling  of  love  or  attachment,  it 
is  all  spent  on  their  foster-children  and  foster-brothers.* 

CHAPTEE  XXIV. 

HOW   NEW-COMEES    AEE    STAINED    WITH    THE    SAME   YICES. 

Thus  it  appears  that  every  one  may  do  just  as  he  pleases; 
and  that  the  question  is  not  what  is  right,  but  what  suits 
his  purpose :  although  nothing  is  really  expedient  but  what 
is  right.  However,  the  pest  of  treachery  has  here  grown  to 
such  a  height — it  has  so  taken  root,  and  long  abuse  has  so 
succeeded  in  turning  it  into  a  second  nature— habits  are  so 
formed  by  mutual  intercourse,  as  he  who  handles  pitch  can- 
not escape  its  stains — that  the  evil  has  acquired  great  force. 
A  little  wormwood,  mixed  with  a  large  quantity  of  bouey, 
quickly  makes  the  whole  bitter;  but  if  the  mixture  contains 
twice  as  much  honey  as  it  does  wormwood,  tlie  honey  lails 

^  The  custom  of  fostering  prevailed  among  the  Celtic  and  Teutonic 
races,  and  was  the  means  of  forming  alliances  which  were,  as  Giraldua 
intimates,  kept  much  more  firmly  and  pertinaciously  than  those  of 
blood.  The  ties  of  the  latter  were  seldom  regarded,  while  a  man  was 
rarely  deserted  by  his  foster- son,  or  even  by  his  foster-brother. 


188  THE  TOPOGBAPHT  OF  IRELAKD. 

to  sweeten  it.  Thus,  I  say,  "  evil  communications  corrupt 
good  manners  ;"  and  even  strangers  who  land  here  from 
other  countries  become  generally  imbued  with  this  national 
crime,  which  seems  to  be  innate  and  very  conta^rious.  It 
either  adopts  holy  places  for  its  purposes,  or  makes  them  ; 
for,  as  the  path  of  pleasure  leads  easily  downwards,  and 
nature  readily  imitates  vice,  who  will  doubt  the  sacredness 
of  its  sanctions  who  is  predisposed  and  foretau^ht  by  so 
many  sacrilegious  examples,  by  so  many  records  of  evil 
deeds,  by  such  frequent  forfeitures  of  oaths,  by  the  want  of 
all  obligations  to  honesty  ? 

CHAPTER  XXy. 

OF   A   NEW  AKD   MONSTROTJS   WAT   OP   INAUGUEATINQ-   THEIB 
KINGS. 

There  are  some  things  which  shame  would  prevent  my 
relating,  unless  the  course  of  my  subject  required  it.  For 
a  filthy  story  seems  to  reflect  a  stain  on  the  author,  although 
it  may  display  his  skill.  But  the  severity  of  history  does 
not  allow  us  either  to  sacrifice  truth  or  afiect  modesty ;  and 
what  is  shameful  in  itself  may  be  related  by  pure  lips  in 
decent  words.  There  is,  then,  in  the  nortliern  and  most 
remote  part  of  Ulster,  namely,  at  Kenel  Cunil,'  a  nation 
which  practises  a  most  barbarous  and  abominable  rite  in 
creating  their  king.  The  whole  people  of  that  country 
being  gathered  in  one  place,  a  white  mare  is  led  into  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  who  is  to  be  inaugurated,  not  as  a 
prince  but  as  a  brute,  not  as  a  king  but  as  an  outlaw,  comes 
before  the  people  on  all  fours,  confessing  himself  a  beast 
with  no  less  impudence  than  imprudence.  The  mare 
being  immediately  killed,  and  cut  in  pieces  and  boiled,  a 
bath  is  prepared  for  him  from  the  broth.  Sitting  in 
this,  he  eats  of  the  flesh  which  is  brought  to  him,  the  people 
standing  round  and  partaking  of  it  also.  He  is  also  re- 
quired to  drink  of  the  broth  in  which  he  is  bathed,  not 
drawing  it  in  any  vessel,  nor  even  in  his  hand,  but  lapping 
it  with  his  mouth.  These  unrighteous  rites  being  duly 
accomplished,  his  royal  authority  and  dominion  are  ratified. 

*  Tirconnell,  now  the  county  of  Donegal.  Irish  antiquaries  utterly 
repudiate  the  disgusting  account  here  given  by  Giraldus  of  the  inaugu- 
ration of  the  kings  of  this  territory.     See  Ware,  vol.  ii.  p.  64. 


IffANT   IN    THE    ISLAND    NOT    BAPTIZED.  139 


CHAPTER  XXYI. 

MOW   yUMBEES    IN    THE    ISLAND    ARE    NOT    BAPTIZED,    AND 
HAVE  NEYEB  COME  TO  THE  KNOWLEDGE  OE  THE  FAITH. 

MoEEOYEK,  thougli  the  faith  has  been  planted  for  so  .ong 
a  period  in  this  country  that  it  has  grown  to  maturity, 
there  are  some  corners  of  the  land  in  which  many  are  still 
unbaptized,  and  to  whom,  through  the  negligence  of  their 
pastors,  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  has  never  penetrated. 
I  beard  some  sailors  relate  that,  having  been  once 
driven  by  a  violent  storm,  during  Lent,  to  the  northern 
islands  and  the  unexplored  expanse  of  the  sea  of  Con- 
naught,  they  at  last  took  shelter  under  a  small  island. 
Here  they  could  hardly  hold  their  ground,  by  the  help  of 
their  anchor,  though  they  had  three  cables  out,  or  more. 
After  three  days,  the  storm  abating,  the  sky  becoming  again 
clear,  and  the  sea  calm,  they  beheld  at  no  great  distance  the 
features  of  a  land  which  was  before  entirely  unknown 
to  them.  Prom  this  land  not  long  afterwards  they  saw  a 
small  boat  rowing  towards  them.  It  was  narrow  and  ob- 
long, and  made  of  wattled  boughs,  covered  and  sewn  with 
the  hides  of  beasts.^  In  it  were  two  men,  stark  naked, 
except  that  they  wore  broad  belts  of  the  skin  of  some  ani- 
mal fastened  round  their  waists.  They  had  long  yellow 
hair,  like  the  Irish,  falling  below  the  shoulders,  and  covering 
great  part  of  their  bodies.  The  sailors,  finding  that  these 
men  were  from  some  part  of  Connaught,  and  spoke  the  Irish 
language,  took  them  into  the  ship.  All  that  they  saw  there 
was  new  to  them,  and  a  subject  of  wonder.  They  said  that 
they  had  never  seen  before  a  large  ship,  built  of  timber,  or 
anything  belonging  to  civilized  man.  Bread  and  cheese 
being  offered  to  them,  they  refused  to  eat  them,  having  no 

^  These  coracles,  or  corraghs — wicker  boats  covered  with  hides,  and 
80  light  that  a  roan  can  carry  one  of  them  on  his  back — are  still  used  in 
Ireland  and  Wales.  Though  adapted  only  to  quiet  waters,  such  as 
rivers,  lakes,  and  bays  on  the  coast,  the  men  of  old  times  are  said 
to  have  been  ventvirous  enough  to  put  to  sea  in  them.  In  the  ChrO" 
nicle  of  Marranius,  under  the  year  892,  we  are  told  that  three  pilgrinui 
embarked  from  Ireland  in  such  a  boat,  taking  with  them  a  week'f 
provisions,  and  that  they  reached  Cornwall  after  an  extraordinary 
Toyage  of  seven  days,  without  sails  or  tackling,  and  afterwards  paUl 
•  Tisit  to  king  Alfred. 


140  THE    TOPOGEA.PHT    OF    IRELAND. 

nowledge  of  either.     Flesb,  fisb,  and  milk,  they  said,  were 
heir  only  food.      Nor  did  thej  wear  any  clothes,  except 
ometimes  the  skins  of  beasts,  in  cases  of  great  necessity, 
li^aving  inquired  of  the  sailors  whetber  they  bad  on  board 
my  flesh  with  which  tbey  could  satisfy  their  hunger,  and 
jeing  told  in  reply,  that  it  was  not  lawful  to  eat  flesh  during 
Lent,  tbey  were  utterly  ignorant  what  Lent  was.     Neither 
^id  they  know  anything  about  the  year,  the  month,  or  the 
veek ;  and  by  what  names  the  days  of  tbe  week  were  called 
n^as  entirely  beyond  their  conception.    Being  asked  whether 
bhey  were  Christians,  and  had  been  baptized,  they  replied 
that  to  the  present  hour  they  had  never  heard  of  tbe  name 
of  Christ,  and  knew  nothing  about  him.     On  their  return, 
they  carried  back  a  loaf  and  a  cheese,  that  tbey  might  be 
able  to  astonish  their  countrymen  by  the  sight  of  the  pro- 
visions which  the  strangers  ate. 

It  must  be  observed  also,  that  the  men  who  enjoy  eccle- 
siastical immunity,  and  are  called  ecclesiastical  men,  al- 
though they  be  laics,  and  have  wives,  and  wear  long  hair 
hanging  down  below  their  shoulders,  but  only  do  not  bear 
arms,  wear  for  their  protection,  by  authority  of  the  Pope, 
fillets  on  the  crown  of  their  heads,  as  a  mark  of  distinction. 
Moreover,  these  people,  who  have  customs  so  very  diff'erent 
from  others,  and  so  opposite  to  them,  on  making  signs 
either  with  the  hands  or  the  head,  beckon  when  they  mean 
that  you  should  go  away,  and  nod  backward  as  often  as  they 
wish  to  be  rid  of  you.  Likewise,  in  this  nation,  the  men 
pass  their  water  sitting,  the  women  standing.  They  are 
also  prf-ne  to  the  failing  of  jealousy  beyond  any  other  na- 
tion.* The  women,  also,  as  well  as  the  men,  ride  astride, 
with  their  legs  stuck  out  on  each  side  of  the  horse. 

'  The  Irish  annalists  tell  us  that  jealousy  was  brought  into  Ireland 
by  Pavtholan  or  Bartholanus.  This  primeval  colonizer,  not  long  after 
his  arrival  in  the  island,  detected  his  wife,  the  beautiful  Dealgnait,  in  an 
intrigue  with  one  of  his  domestics,  and,  summoning  them  to  his  pre- 
sence, he  wreaked  his  vengeance,  not  on  the  lady  or  her  paramour,  but 
on  Dealgnait's  favourite  greyhound,  which  he  seized  and  dashed  to 
pieces  on  the  ground.  This,  we  are  told,  was  the  first  case  of  jealousy 
that  ever  occurred  in  Ireland. 


CHAHACTEE    OF    THE    lEISH    CI.EBaT.  141 

CHAPTEE  XXYII. 

OF   MANY   LAUDABLE    QUALITIES    IN   THE    lEISH    CLEEGT. 

"We  come  now  to  the  clerical  order.  The  clergy,  then,  of 
this  country  are  commendable  enough  for  their  piety ;  and 
among  many  other  virtues  in  which  they  excel,  are  especially 
eminent  for  that  of  continence.  They  also  perform  with 
great  regularity  the  services  of  the  psalms,  hours,  lessons, 
and  prayers,  and,  confining  themselves  to  the  precincts  of 
the  churches,  employ  their  whole  time  in  the  offices  to 
which  they  are  appointed.  They  also  pay  due  attention  to 
the  rules  of  abstinence  and  a  spare  diet,  the  greatest  part 
of  them  fasting  almost  every  day  till  dusk,  when  by  singing 
complines  they  have  finished  the  offices  of  the  several  hours 
for  the  day.  Would  that,  after  these  long  fasts,  they  were 
as  sober  as  they  are  serious,  as  true  as  they  are  severe, 
as  pure  as  they  are  enduring,  such  in  reality  as  they  are 
in  appearance.  But  among  so  many  thousands  you  will 
scarcely  find  one  who,  after  his  devotion  to  long  fastings 
and  prayers,  does  not  make  up  by  night  for  his  privations 
during  the  day  by  the  enormous  quantities  of  wine  and 
other  liquors  in  which  he  indulges  more  than  is  becoming. 

Dividing  the  day  of  twenty-four  hours  into  two  equal 
parts,  they  devote  the  hours  of  light  to  spiritual  offices,  and 
those  of  night  to  the  flesh  ;  so  that  in  the  light  they  apply 
themselves  to  the  works  of  the  light,  and  in  the  dark  they 
turn  to  the  works  of  darkness.  Hence  it  may  be  considered 
almost  a  miracle,  that  where  wine  has  the  dominion  lust 
does  not  reign  also.  This  appears  to  have  been  thought 
difficult  by  St,  Jerome ;  still  more  so  by  the  apostle :  one  ol 
whom  forbids  men  to  be  drunken  with  wine,  wherein  there 
is  excess :  the  other  teaches  that  the  belly,  when  it  is  in- 
flamed by  drink,  easily  vents  itself  in  lust. 

There  are,  however,  some  among  the  clergy  who  are  most 
excellent  men,  and  have  no  leaven  of  impurity.  Indeed 
this  people  are  intemperate  in  all  their  actions,  and  most 
vehement  in  all  their  feelings.  Thus  the  bad  are  bad  in- 
deed— there  are  nowhere  worse;  and  than  the  good  you 
cannot  find  better.  But  there  is  not  much  wheat  among 
the  oats  and  the  tares.  Many,  you  find,  are  called,  but  few 
chosen :  there  is  very  little  grain,  but  much  chaff. 


142  THE  TOPOGEAPHY  OF  lEELAND. 

CHAPTEE  XXYIII. 

OP  THE  NEGLECT  OF  THE  PRELATES  IN  PASTOEAL  DISCIPLINE. 

I  FIND  it  especially  worthy  of  reproach  in  the  bishops  and 
prelates,  that  they  are  very  slothful  and  negligent  in  their 
duty  of  correcting  a  people  guilty  of  such  enormous  delin- 
quencies. As  they  neither  preach  nor  correct,  I  predict 
that  they  will  be  corrected  themselves  ;  as  they  do  not 
reprove  others,  I  reprove  them  ;  as  they  neglect  to  censure 
others,  I  censure  them.  For,  as  St.  Grregory  says,  who- 
soever is  raised  to  the  priesthood  takes  on  himself  the  office 
of  a  preacher. 

If,  therefore,  a  priest  neglects  preaching,  what  sort  of 
proclamation  can  such  a  dumb  herald  make.  But  if  the 
prelates,  during  the  many  ages  which  have  elapsed  from  the 
time  of  Patrick,  had  steadfastly  devoted  themselves  to  the 
duties  of  preaching  and  teaching,  of  censure  and  of  correction, 
which  their  office^ required,  and  had  in  some  degree  rooted 
out  the  enormities  of  this  people,  already  mentioned,  doubt- 
less they  would  have  imprinted  on  them  some  form  of  re- 
ligion and  honesty.  But  there  was  no  one  among  them  to 
exalt  his  voice  like  a  trumpet ;  there  was  no  one  to  take  the 
contrary  part,  and  be  as  a  wall  of  defence  to  the  house  of 
Israel :  there  was  no  one  to  contend  even  unto  exile  and 
death  for  the  church  of  Christ,  which  he  hath  purchased  to 
himself  with  his  precious  blood.  Hence  all  the  saints  of 
this  country  were  confessors,  and  none  martyrs  ;  a  thing 
which  it  would  be  difficult  to  find  in  any  other  Christian 
kingdom. 

It  is  wonderful  therefore,  that  in  a  nation  so  cruel  and 
blood-thirsty,  in  which  the  faith  had  been  planted  in  very 
early  times,  and  was  always  very  flourishing,  there  should 
be  no  crown  of  martyrdom  for  the  church  of  Christ.  No 
one  was  found  in  those  parts  to  cement  the  foundations  of 
the  rising  church  by  shedding  his  blood  ;  there  was  none  to 
do  it  this  service ;  no,  not  one.  For  there  are  pastors  whose 
object  it  is,  not  to  feed  others,  but  to  be  fed  themselves ; 
there  are  prelates  who  aim  not  at  doing  good,  but  at  pre- 
eminence ;  there  are  bishops  who  assume  the  name  without 
the  virtues,  the  honour  without  the  burthens  of  the  office. 


ELECTION    OF    THE    BISHOPS.  143 

Thus  the  prelates  of  this  country,  secluding  themselves 
according  to  ancient  custom  within  the  inclosures  of  their 
churches,  are  generally  content  with  indulging  in  a  contem- 
plative life,  and  are  so  smitten  with  delight  in  the  heauty 
of  Eachel,  that  they  turn  away  from  the  blear-eyed  Leah, 
Hence  it  happens  that  they  neither  preach  to  the  people 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  nor  tell  them  of  their  sins  ;  neither 
extirpate  vices  nor  implant  virtues  in  the  flock  committed 
to  their  charge. 

CHAPTEE  XXIX. 

HOW  NEAELT  ALL  THE  BISHOPS  OF  IRELAND  AEE  ELECTED 
FEOM  THE  MONASTERIES. 

PoE  as  nearly  all  the  prelates  of  Ireland  are  elected  from 
the  monasteries  over  the  clergy,  they  scrupulously  perform 
all  the  duties  of  a  monk,  but  pass  by  all  those  which  belong 
to  the  clergy  and  bishops.^  An  anxious  care  for  the  good 
of  the  flock  committed  to  them  is  little  cultivated,  or  made 
a  secondary  concern.  They  are  either  entirely  ignorant  of 
what  St.  Jerom  addressed  to  Eusticus  the  monk,  or  they 
pretend  to  be  so  :  "  So  live  in  your  monastery,  that  you  may 
be  worthy  to  become  one  of  the  clergy  ;  devote  a  long  time 
to  learning  yourself  what  you  may  have  to  teach  ;  among 
good  men  always  be  a  follower  of  the  best :  and  when  you 
are  elected  into  the  number  of  the  clergy,  fulfil  all  the 
clerical  duties."  And  again  he  writes  to  the  same  person  : 
"  If  you  covet  the  office  of  a  clerk,  learn  first  what  you  may 
teach ;  be  not  a  soldier  before  you  have  learnt  discipline, 
nor  a  master  before  you  have  been  a  scholar."  But  they 
take  little  heed  to  themselves,  they  ill  provide  for  their  own 
welfare,  when,  through  their  own  unconcern  and  negli- 
gence, they  withhold  that  careful  superintendence  which  the 
office  they  have  undertaken  requires  over  those  who  are 
committed  to  their  charge.  They  ruin  themselves  even 
more  fatally  than  their  flocks. 

1  In  England  there  was,  and  had  been  from  Anglo-Saxon  times,  a 
strong  feeling  of  hostility  between  the  monks  and  the  secular  clergy, 
the  latter  being  far  less  bigotted,  as  well  as  better  informed,  and  more 
identified  in  life  and  sentiment  with  the  laity.  Giraldiis  had  a  strong 
leaning  to  the  secular  clergy,  and,  as  will  be  seen  in  many  parts  of  bit 
writings,  a  hostile  feeHng  towards  the  monks. 


144         THE  TOPO&EAPHT  OF  IBELANS. 


CHAPTEE  XXX. 

HOW  THE   CLEEGT   DIFFEB   FEOM   MONKS,   AlTD   ABE   TO   BB 

PEEFEEEED    TO    THEM. 

They  ought  to  know,  as  Jerome  reminds  Eleutherius, 
that  as  the  care  of  the  monks  differs  from  that  of  the 
clergy,  the  clergy  feeding  the  sheep,  and  the  monks  being 
fed ;  the  monks  are  in  the  same  relation  to  the  clergy  as 
the  flock  to  the  shepherds.  The  monk  has  only  the  guar- 
dianship of  a  single  person,  he  has  to  take  care  of  him- 
self; the  clerk  is  bound  to  have  a  deep  concern  for  the 
welfare  of  many.  The  monk  is  therefore  like  a  single 
grain  of  wheat  deposited  in  the  ground,  the  clerk  like  a 
grain  that  sprouts  up  and  brings  an  abundant  crop  into  the 
granary  of  the  Lord. 

Prelates  of  this  sort  have  a  double  character;  in  some 
things  they  are  monkish,  in  others  clerical.  As  monks,  they 
learn  a  dove-like  simplicity ;  as  clerks,  the  wisdom  of  the 
serpent ;  as  the  one,  prudence,  as  the  other,  eloquence ;  as 
the  one,  words,  as  the  other,  deeds  ;  as  the  one,  to  know 
themselves,  as  the  other,  to  know  others.  In  the  one  they 
cultivate  fruitful  thoughts,  in  the  other  fluency  of  speech ; 
that  being  admitted  into  the  tabernacle  among  the  priests, 
the  bells  on  their  vestments  may  tinkle,  and  the  words  of 
instruction  and  reproof  may  be  heard  from  their  mouths. 
Por  Jerome  rebukes  in  clear  terms  those  foolish  and  dumb 
prelates,  who  have  more  of  the  monk  than  the  clergy  ;  saying : 
"  A  life  of  innocence  and  silence,  though  it  may  profit  as  an 
example,  is  rendered  useless  by  its  taciturnity ;  for  the 
wolves  are  to  be  driven  away  by  the  baying  of  the  dogs  and 
the  staves  of  the  shepherds."  He  speaks  in  like  manner  in 
the  first  Prologue  to  the  Bible :  "  A  life  of  retirement, 
though  holy,  is  profitable  only  to  him  who  leads  it ;  and, 
however  his  worth  may  edify  the  church  of  God,  he  injures 
it  when  he  does  not  resist  its  destroyers.  Por  error,  when 
it  is  not  opposed,  is  confirmed,  and  truth  is  stifled  when  it 
is  not  boldly  defended."  Jerome  also  writes  thus  to  Eleu- 
therius :  "Neglect  in  confounding  the  perverse,  when  you 
have  opportunity,  is  nothing  else  than  encouragement  of 
them ;   and  he  who  hesitates  to  make  head  against  open 


SARCASTIC  EEPLT  OF  THE  AECHBISHOP  OF  CASH  EL.  1^5 

wickedness,  especially  when  the  duties  of  his  office  require 
it,  has  the  failings  of  a  recluse." 


CHAPTEE  XXXI. 

THAT     MANT    SEEM     TO    BE    IN    THE    FOLD    WHO    SHALL    BE 
SHUT    OUT  ;     AND    THE    CONTRARY. 

It  is  wonderful,  however,  that  as  the  prelates  have  always 
been  thus  slothful  in  their  duties,  and  negligent  of  the  wel- 
fare of  their  people,  so  many  of  them  have  been  reputed 
holy  men  while  on  earth,  and  are  so  devoutly  reverenced 
and  M'orshipped  as  saints.  One  of  two  things  evidently 
results  from  this.  Either  that  our  writers  of  the  lives  of 
saints  have  omitted  many  accounts  of  a  repulsive  nature, 
both  concerning  the  due  exercise  of  the  pastoral  office,  and 
other  matters,  and  that  as  the  earth  is  full  of  the 
mercy  of  the  Lord,  more  is  to  be  hoped  from  His  clemency 
than  feared  from  His  justice,  or  rather,  that  the  church 
militant  is  deceived  in  many  things.  The  church  triumphant, 
however,  cannot  be  mocked ;  so  that  some  who  are  accepted 
by  the  one  are  refused  by  the  other,  and  those  whose  praises 
are  sounded  by  the  one  are  rejected  by  the  other ;  and  the 
contrary.  The  one  raises  to  the  rank  of  the  elect,  not  with- 
out reason,  many  who  are  wholly  discarded  by  the  other. 
For  many  appear  to  be  within  the  doors  who  are  cast  out, 
and  many  who  are  cast  out,  are  within — for  often  what  is 
highly  esteemed  among  men  is  offensive  to  Grod. 

CHAPTEE  XXXII. 

A  SARCASTIC  EEPLT  OF  THE  ARCHBISHOP  OF  CASHEL. 

I  ONCE  made  objections  of  this  kind  to  Maurice,  archbishop 
of  Cashel,  a  discreet  and  learned  man,  in  the  presence  of 
Gerald,  a  clerk  of  the  Eoman  church,  who  formerly  came  as 
legate  into  those  parts ;  and  throwing  the  blame  of  the 
enormous  delinquencies  of  this  country  principally  on  the 
prelates,  I  drew  a  powerful  argument  from  the  fact  that  no 
one  in  that  kingdom  had  ever  obtained  the  crown  of  mar- 
tyrdom for  the  church  of  Grod.  Upon  this  the  archbishop 
replied  sarcastically,  avoiding  the  point  of  my  proposition, 
and  answering  it  by  a  home-thrust :   "  It  is  true,"   he  said, 

L 


146  THE  TOPOGBAPHT  OF  lEELAND. 

that  although  our  nation  may  seem  barbarous,  uncivilized, 
and  cruel,  they  have  always  shewn  great  honour  and  reve- 
rence to  their  ecclesiastics,  and  never  on  any  occasion  raised 
their  hands  against  God's  saints.'  But  there  is  now  come 
into  our  land  a  people  who  know  how  to  make  martyrs,  and 
have  frequently  done  it.  Henceforth  Ireland  will  have  its 
martyrs,  as  well  as  other  countries. 

CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

HOW  BELLS  AWn  PASTORAL  STATES,  AND  OTHER  SUCH 
EELICS  or  THE  SAINTS,  AEE  HELD  IN  GEEAT  EEVEEENCB 
BY  THE  PEOPLE  BOTH  OF  lEELAND,  SCOTLAND,  AND  OF 
WALES. 

I  MUST  not  omit  that  the  portable  bells,  and  the  staves  of 
the  saints  having  their  upper  ends  curved  and  inlaid  with 
gold,  silver,  or  brass,  were  held  in  great  reverence  by  the 
people  and  clergy  both  of  Ireland,  Scotland,  and  Wales  ; 
insomuch  that  they  had  much  greater  regard  for  oaths 
sworn  on  these,  than  on  the  gospels.  For  by  some  occult 
virtue,  with  which  they  were  in  a  manner  divinely  imbued, 
to  say  nothing  of  a  vindictive  power  after  which  their  saints 
seem  to  have  had  a  great  hankering,  those  who  forfeited 
such  oaths  have  often  been  severely  punished,  and  the 
chastisement  inflicted  on  transgressors  have  been  severe. 

CHAPTER  XXXiy. 

CONCEENINO  THE  GEEAT  TIETUES  OP  THE  PASTOEAL  STAFF 
CALLED  THE  STAFF  OF  JESUS  ;  AND  HOW  A  PEIEST  HAD  A 
TWOFOLD  DISEASE  INFLICTED  ON   HIM. 

Of  all  the  croziers  in  Ireland,  and  other  relics  in  wood  of 
the  saints,  the  famous  staff",  which  is  called  the  Staff  of 
Jesus,  seems  deservedly  to  hold  the  first  place.  It  was  with 
this,  according  to  the  vulgar  belief,  that  St.  Patrick  expelled 
all  venomous  reptiles  from  the  island.  Its  origin  is  as  un- 
certain as  its  virtues  are  notorious.  This  great  treasure 
was  transferred  from  Armagh  to  Dublin,  in  our  time,  and 
by  the  means  of  our  people. 
*  I  aitio  saw  in  Wales,  which  made  it  the  more  remarkable, 

'  There  was  probably  in  this  reply  an  allusion  to  the  death  of  Thomai 
ff  Canterbury. 


FUMBEE   or    PEESONS   WHO    HAVE    BODILY    DEFECTS.    147 

a  mendicant  who  wore  round  his  neck,  as  a  relic,  a  horn  of 
brass  which  was  said  to  have  belonged  to  St.  Patrick.  He 
told  me  that,  out  of  reverence  to  the  saint,  no  one  dared  to 
sound  it.  But  having  handed  round  the  horn,  according  to 
the  custom  in  Ireland,  to  be  kissed  by  the  byestanders,  a 
certain  priest,  Bernard  by  name,  snatched  it  out  of  liis 
hands,  and,  placing  it  in  the  corner  of  his  mouth,  attempted 
to  blow  it  and  draw  sounds  from  it.  But  at  the  same 
moment  his  mouth  was  twisted  towards  his  ear  by  a  para- 
lytic stroke ;  nor  did  his  punishment  end  there.  He 
had  before  a  burning  eloquence,  and  a  slanderer's  foul 
tongue ;  but  he  instantly  lost  the  use  of  speech ;  and  so 
lasting  was  the  injury,  that  he  has  stammered  ever  since. 
Besides  which,  he  fell  into  a  lethargy,  and  so  totally  forgot 
everything  that  he  scarcely  remembered  his  own  name :  such 
was  his  total  loss  of  memory,  that  the  psalms  which  he  be- 
fore knew  by  heart,  I  found  him  many  days  afterwards 
learning  afresh,  and  wondered  to  see  him  again  picking  up 
the  rudiments  of  letters  when  an  old  man,  of  which  in  his 
youth  he  had  acquired  a  considerable  knowledge.  However 
at  last,  having  crossed  over  to  Ireland,  on  a  pilgrimage  to 
St.  Patrick,  in  expiation  of  his  rash  attempt,  he  returned 
with  better  health,  though  it  was  not  entirely  restored. 

CHAPTER  XXXV. 

OF    THE    NUMBER    OF    PERSONS    IN  THIS    NATION  WHO  HAVE 
BODILY    DEFECTS. 

Moreover,  I  have  never  seen  in  any  other  nation  so  many 
individuals  who  were  born  blind,  so  many  lame,  maimed,  or 
having  some  natural  defect.  The  persons  of  those  who  are 
well-formed  are  indeed  remarkably  fine,  nowhere  better ; 
but  as  those  who  are  favoured  with  the  gifts  of  nature  grow 
up  exceedingly  handsome,  those  from  whom  she  withholds 
them  are  frightfully  ugly.  No  wonder  if  among  an  adul- 
terous and  incestuous  people,  in  which  both  births  and 
marriages  are  illegitimate,  a  nation  out  of  the  pale  of  the 
laws,  nature  herself  should  be  foully  corrupted  by  perverse 
habits.  It  should  seem  that  by  the  just  judgments  of  God, 
nature  sometimes  produces  such  .objects,  contrary  to  her 
own  laws,  in  order  that  those  who  will  not  regard  Him 


148  THE    TOPOGEAPHY    OF    lEEL^iN^D. 

duly  by  the  light  of  their  own  consciences,  siiould  often 
have  to  lament  their  privations  of  the  exterior  and  bodilj 
gift  of  sight. 

CHAPTEE  XXXVI. 

HOW  MANT  KINGS  BEIGNED  EEOM  THE  TIME  OF  ST.  PATEICK 
TO  THE  COMITy^a  OF  TUEGESITJS. 

Thiety-theee  kings  of  this  race  reigned  in  Ireland,  from 
the  arrival  of  St.  Patrick  to  the  tim3  of  king  Fedlimidius,' 
during  a  period  of  four  hundred  years  ;  during  whose  daya 
the  Christian  faith  diffused  here  remained  unshaken. 

CHAPTEE  XXXYII. 

HOW  rN^  THE  TIME  OF   KIKG  FEDLIMIDIUS,  THE  FOEWEGIANS, 
UNDER  THEIE  CHIEF  TTJEGESIUS,  SUBJUGATED  lEELAND. 

In  the  time  of  this  king  Eedlimidius,  in  the  year  838,  the 
Norwegians  landed  on  the  coast  of  Ireland  from  a  large 
fleet,  and  taking  possession  of  the  country  with  a  strong 
hand,  in  the  excesses  of  their  heathen  rage,  destroyed  almost 
all  the  churches.  Their  leader,  whose  name  was  Turgesius,^ 
after  many  conflicts  and  fierce  battles,  in  a  short  time  re- 

^  In  the  text  of  the  printed  edition  this  king  is  called  Felmidius,  but 
the  yarious  reading  of  other  manuscripts  is  adopted  here,  as  being 
more  correct.  He  was,  in  fact,  Feidlim-mac-Criomthan,  king  of  Mun- 
ster,  one  of  the  celebrated  monarchs  in  Irish  history.  According  to 
the  Irish  annalists,  his  eagerness  in  following  up  domestic  feuds  gave  an 
advantage  to  the  nothern  invaders. 

2  Turgesius  is  a  corruption  of  the  Scandinavian  name  Thorgils,  a  son  of 
Harald  Haarfager,  who  succeeded  Halfdan  the  Black  about  the  year  861, 
and  was  king  of  all  Norway  from  about  900  or  910,  to  931  or  936. 
The  date  assigned  by  Giraldus  to  the  invasion  of  Thorgils  is  therefore 
incorrect.  Thorgils  had  the  fine  province  of  Telemarken  conferred 
upon  him  as  an  appanage  by  his  father,  but  in  the  adventurous  spirit 
of  his  race,  he  undertook  an  expedition  to  Ireland,  where  he  perished. 
It  is  thus  described  in  Harald  Haarfager 's  Saga  :  "  King  Harald  gave 
ships  of  war  to  Thorgils  and  Erode — another  of  his  sons — with  which 
they  went  westward  on  a  viking  cruise,  and  plundered  in  Ireland, 
Scotland,  and  Bretland  (Briton-land  or  Wales).  They  were  the  first 
of  the  Northmen  who  took  Dublin.  It  is  said  that  Erode  got  poisoned 
drink  there ;  but  Thorgils  was  a  long  time  king  over  Dublin,  until  he 
fell  into  a  snare  of  the  Irish  and  was  killed." — Snorro  SturlesoH*§ 
Sj^mskringla,  by  Laing,  vol.  i.  p.  304, 


TtrUGESrUS    SLAIN   TS   IRELAND.  149 

duced  the  whole  island  under  liis  dominion,  and  making  a 
circuit  through  the  kingdom  erected  castles  in  suitable  sit- 
uations all  over  the  country.  They  were  surrounded  with 
deep  ditches,  and  very  lofty ;  being  also  round,  and  most  of 
them  having  three  lines  of  defences.^  Walled  castles,  the  re- 
mains of  them,  and  vestiges  of  an  early  age,  are  to  be  found 
to  the  present  day,  still  entire,  but  empty  and  deserted. 
For  the  Irish  people  attach  no  importance  to  castles  ;  they 
make  the  woods  their  stronghold,  and  the  bogs  their 
trenches.  After  this,  Turgesius  governed  the  Irish  kingdom 
in  peace  for  some  time ;  until  at  last  he  fell  into  a  snare 
laid  for  him  by  girls,  and  lost  his  life.^ 


CHAPTEE  XXXVIII. 

HOW  THE  ENGLISH  SAY  THAT  IT  WAS   GUEMUND,  THE     lEISH 
THAT  IT  WAS  TUEGESIUS,  WHO  CO]SQUEEED  THE   ISLAND. 

It  appears,  however,  to  me  very  extraordinary  that  our 
English  people  proclaim  that  Grurmund  conquered  the  is- 
land, and  built  the  castles  and  sunk  the  ditches  I  have  just 
referred  to,  making  no  mention  whatever  of  Turgesius ;  while 
the  Irish  and  their  written  annals  attribute  these  to  Turgesius, 
and  are  altogether  silent  respecting  Grurmund.  Hence  some 
say  that  the  island  was  once  subjugated  by  Gurmund,  and 
again,  the  second  time,  by  Turgesius.  This,  however,  is  quite 
contrary  to  the  Irish  histories,  which  assert  that  the  Irish 
nation  was  never  subdued  but  once  before  these  times  and 
that  it  was  by  Turgesius. 

^  It  must  not  be  supposed  that  the  Northmen  of  this  age  erected  in 
Ireland  stone  fortresses  such  as  their  descendants,  the  Normans,  con- 
structed eveiy  where  two  centuries  later.  The  "castles"  of  which  Giraldus 
speaks  were  inclosures,  surrounded  with  trenches  and  ramparts,  many 
of  which  are  still  seen  on  elevated  spots  in  England  as  well  as  Ireland 
in  which  latter  country  they  are  called  by  the  common  people  Danes- 
forts,  or  raths.  Some  of  them  include  subterranean  vaulted  chambers, 
and  they  are  of  various  sizes,  with  one  or  more  lines  of  circumvallation. 
There  is  one  at  Donaghadee  which  answers  the  description  of  Giraldus, 
having  three  great  artificial  ramparts  surrounding  it,  and  the  largest 
fosse  is  30  feet  broad.  Its  conical  height  is  60  feet,  raised  by  an  artifi- 
cial mound  of  the  earth  thrown  up.  and  the  circumference  of  th« 
■whole  is  2100  feet.     See  Ware's  Ant.  of  Ireland,  vol.  ii.,  p.  139. 

*  See  afterwards,  c.  40. 


150  THE    TOPOGRAPHY    OF    IKELANB. 

Others  say  that  the  conqueror  was  one  and  the  same,  but 
that  he  had  two  names ;  the  English  calling  him  Grurmund, 
and  the  Irish  Turgesius  :  but  the  difference  in  their  respective 
fates,  and  their  dissimilar  ends,  forbid  our  accepting  this 
Bolution. 

The  more  truthful  and  probable  account  seems  to  be, 
that  when  Grurmund  held  the  sceptre  of  the  kingdom  of 
Britain,  which  he  had  reduced  under  his  own  dominion,  he 
sent  over  Turgesius  with  the  flower  of  his  army  and  a  con- 
siderable part  of  his  fleet  to  subdue  this  island.  "Which 
Turgesius,  having  been  the  commander  of  the  expedition, 
remained  here  after  the  country  had  been  subdued,  aa 
governor  of  the  kingdom  and  Gurmund's  seneschal  Thus 
the  Irish  nation  handed  down  to  future  ages  the  name  and 
glory  of  him  only  whom  they  had  personally  seen  and 
known,  and  at  whose  hands  they  had  suffered  such  great 
misfortunes. 

CHAPTEE  XXXIX. 

WHEKCE    GTJRMUND    CAME    INTO    IKELAN»    OB   BRITAITT. 

We  read  in  the  British  History'  that  Gurmund  came  to  Ire- 
land from  Africa;  and  that,  having  been  invited  by  the 
Saxons  to  pass  over  to  Britain,  he  laid  siege  to  Cirencester ; 
which  being  at  length  taken,  and,  as  it  is  said,  reduced  to 
ashes  by  the  instrumentality  of  sparrows,^  and  Keredith, 
who  was  then  the  ignoble  king  of  the  Britons,  being  driven 
into  Wales,  he  obtained  the  dominion  of  the  whole  kingdom 
in  a  short  time.  Whether,  however,  he  was  an  African,  or, 
what  appears  nearer  the  truth,  a  Norwegian,  he  never  was 
in  Ireland  at  all,  or,  having  made  a  short  stay  there,  left 
Turgesius  as  his  seneschal. 

1  Tliis  is  taken  from  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  Hist.  Brit.  lib.  xi.  c.  8. 
Kereditius,  in  Giraldus  Cambrensis,  is  the  Careticus  of  Geoffrey. 

i  This  legend  of  the  destruction  of  the  Koman  town  by  the  means 
of  sparrows  is  a  common  one  The  people  of  Wroxeter  in  Shrop- 
shire  still  tell  how,  when  the  barbarians  laid  siege  to  the  Roman  city  of 
Uriconium  (of  which  Wroxeter  is  the  site),  and  could  make  no  im- 
pression  on  its  walls,  they  collected  all  the  sparrows  from  the  surround- 
ing country,  and  having  tied  burning  matches  to  their  legs,  set  them  at 
liberty.  The  sparrows  Sew  into  the  city,  and  settled  on  tlie  roofs  of  the 
houses,  which,  being  thatched  with  straw,  took  fire  immediately,  and 
dwring  the  confusion  caused  by  the  general  conflagratirn,  the  besiegers 
forced  their  way  into  the  city.  The  same  story  is  told  of  vSilchester, 
the  Roman  Calleva.     Cirencester  was  the  Corinium  of  the  Romaus. 


DEATH    or    TUEGE8ITJS.  151 

CHAPTER  XL. 

HOW  WHEN  GUBMUND  WAS  SLAIN  IN  GAUL,  TURGESICTS  PE- 
EISHED  IN  lEELAND  BY  THE  HANDS  OF  TOITNG  MEN  DIS- 
GUISED   AS    GIBLS. 

"When  Gurmund  was  slain  in  Gaul,  and  the  Britons 
Lad  taken  that  opportunity  to  shake  off  the  yoke  of  the 
barbarians,  the  Irish  nation  lost  no  time  in  resorting  to 
their  accustomed  arts  of  treachery,  with  complete  success. 
For  Turgesius  being  at  that  time  deeply  enamoured  of 
the  daughter  of  Omachlachelin,'  king  of  Meath,  the  king, 
dissembling  his  vindictive  feelings,  promised  to  give  him 
his  daughter,  and  to  send  her  to  a  certain  island  in  Meath,  in 
the  lake  called  Lochyrenus,  attended  by  fifteen  damsels  of  high 
rank.  Turgesius,  being  highly  pleased  at  this,  went  to  meet 
them  at  the  appointed  day  and  place,  accompanied  by  the 
same  number  of  the  nobles  of  his  own  nation.  On  his 
arrival  in  the  island,  he  was  met  by  fifteen  courageous,  but 
beardless  youths,  who  had  been  selected  for  the  enterprise, 
and  were  dressed  as  young  women,  with  daggers  secreted 
under  their  mantles  ;  and  as  soon  as  Turgesius  and  his  com- 
panions advanced  to  embrace  them,  they  fell  upon  them  and 
slew  them. 

CHAPTEE  XLI. 

HOW    THE    NORWEGIANS   WEEE    DRIYEN     OUT    OF     IRELAND, 
AFTER    REIGNING    THERE    ABOUT     THIRTY    YEARS. 

Fame  on  her  swift  wings  having  quickly  taken  her  flight 
over  the  whole  island,  and  spread  abroad,  according  to  cus- 
tom, the  success  of  the  enterprise,  the  Norwegians  were 
massacred  in  all  quarters,  and  in  a  short  time  all  of  them 
were  put  to  the  sword  by  force  or  fraud,  or  compelled  to 
take  ship  and  return  again  to  Norway  or  to  the  islands  from 
whence  they  had  come. 

CHAPTEE  XLII. 

A   SUBTLE    QUESTION   OF   THE    KING   OF    MEATH. 

The  before-mentioned  king  of  Meath,  after  he  had  planned  in 
his  mind  the  treacherous  enterprise,  having  cunningly  en- 

'  O'Melachlin,  king  of  Meath.     The  lake  alluded  to  was  Loch-V«r. 


152  THE    TOPOGEAPHY    OP   lEEtAITD. 

quired  of  Turgesius  by  what  contrivance  or  art  certain 
birds  whicb  had  lately  migrated  into  the  kingdom,  and  were 
very  destructive  throughout  the  country,  could  be  got  rid 
of  and  exterminated,  lie  received  for  reply,  that  their  nests 
should  be  everywhere  destroyed,  if  it  should  be  found  that 
they  had  already  built  them.  The  Irish  interpreting  this 
of  the  castles  of  the  Norwegians,  rose  to  a  man  through 
the  whole  island,  on  the  death  of  Turgesius,  and  laid  the 
castles  in  ruins.  The  power  of  the  Norwegians,  and  the 
tyranny  of  Turgesius  in  Ireland,  lasted  about  thirty  years, 
after  which,  the  Irish  race,  having  delivered  themselves  from 
slavery  and  recovered  their  ancient  liberty,  again  succeeded 
to  the  government  of  the  kingdom. 

CHAPTEE  XLIII. 

or  THE  ARRIVAL  OF  THE  OSTMEN. 

Not  long  afterwards,  some  adventurers  arrived  again  in  the 
island  from  Norway  and  the  Northern  islands,  who  were 
either  the  remains  of  the  former  immigrants  of  that  race 
who  had  seen  with  their  own  eyes,  or  their  sons  who  had 
learnt  from  the  reports  of  their  parents,  the  wealth  of  the 
land.  They  did  not  come  in  ships  armed  for  war,  but  in 
guise  of  peace,  and  under  the  pretext  of  being  merchant 
adventurers  ;^  so  that  having  first  established  themselves  in 
the  seaports  of  Ireland,  at  length,  with  the  consent  of  the 
lords  of  the  territory,  they  built  several  cities  in  these 
places.  For  as  the  inherent  sloth  of  the  Irish  raee  pre- 
vented them,  as  we  have  before  observed,  from  making  any 
efforts  to  explore  the  seas  or  engage  in  commerce,  it  was 
deemed  advisable,  in  a  general  council  of  the  whole  king- 
dom, that  some  people  should  be  admitted  into  parts  of  the 
kingdom,  by  whose  commercial  industry  the  products  of 
other  lands  might  be  brought  into  the  country,  in  order  to 

^  The  Northmen,  sometimes  called  Ostmen,  because  their  country  lay 
to  the  east  of  the  British  isles,  were  at  this  time,  and  long  before,  not 
only  distinguished  for  their  piratical  or  viking  expeditions,  but  for  their 
commercial  enterprise.  Almost  aU  the  trade  of  the  north  of  Europe 
was  in  their  hands,  and  as  merchants  they  founded  colonies  in  the  prin- 
cipal seaports  of  England  as  well  as  of  Ireland  which  long  subsisted 
M  independent  communities.  See  Worsaae's  Danes  in  England,  &o. 
leot.  X.  p.  99. 


AEElVAl    OF    THE    OSTMEK.  153 

supply  them  with  such  articles  as  tlieir  own  land  did  not 
furnish.  These  foreigners  had  for  leaders  three  brothers, 
whose  names  were  Amelaus,  Sytaracus,  and  Tvorus.' 
They  built  first  the  three  cities  of  Dublin,  Waterford, 
and  Limerick,  of  which  Dublin  fell  to  the  share  and  was 
under  the  government  of  Amelaus,  "Waterford  of  Sytaracus, 
and  Limerick  of  Yvorus  ;  and  from  them  colonies  were  sent 
in  process  of  time  to  found  other  cities  in  Ireland. 

This  people,  who  are  now  called  Ostmen,  were  at  first 
submissive  to  the  kings  of  the  land,  and  peaceably  disposed  ; 
but  as  soon  as  their  numbers  were  increased  to  a  great  mul- 
titude, and  they  had  fortified  their  cities  with  walls  and 
ditches,  they  called  to  mind,  at  times,  the  ancient  ani- 
mosities buried  in  their  bosoms,  and  begiiU  to  rebel. 
They  are  called  Ostmen  in  their  own  tongue,  from  a 
word  corrupted  in  the  Saxon  language  which  means  East- 
ern-men ;  for,  as  regards  this  country,  they  arrived  here 
from  the  East.  Erom  these  new  settlers,  and  the  former 
immigration  of  the  Norwegians  (against  whom  they  found 
little  security),  the  natives  learnt  the  use  of  the  axe  {securis)', 
and  as  knowledge  brings  evil  in  its  train,  the  mischief  which 
they  thus  learnt  from  the  foreigners  was  often  poured  forth 
on  others. 

CHAPTEE  XLIV. 

HOW  MANY  KTNaS  EEIGNED  IN  IRELAND  FROM  THE  DEATH 
or  TUEGESIUS  TO  EODEKIC,  THE  LAST  SOLE  E:ING  OF 
IRELAND. 

The  kingdom  of  Connaught  subsisted  from  the  time  of 
king  Eedlimidius  and  the  death  of  Turgesius  to  the  time  of 
Koderic,"  who  was  the  last  king  of  that  nation,  and  go- 
verns Connaught  to  the  present  day  ;  and  by  whom  Dermitius, 
king  of  Leim^ter,  the  son  of  Murchard,  was  expelled  from 
his  kingdom.  During  this  period,  seventeen  kings  reigned 
in  L-eland. 

^  The  Norwegian  names  of  these  chiefs,  by  Giraldus  latinized,  were 
Anlaf  or  Olaf,  who  became  king  of  Dublin ;  Sihtric,  or  Sigtryg,  of 
Waterford  ;  and  Ifar,  or  Ivar,  of  Limerick. 

2  Roderic  Mac  Tirdelvae  O'Connor,  king  of  Connaught,  and  last 
monarch  of  Ireland  of  the  Milesian  race,  died  a.d.  1198,  and  was 
buried  in  the  abbey  of  Cong.  Details  of  his  history  will  be  found  in 
the  "  Conquest  of  Ireland,"  which  forms  a  part  of  the  present  voluma 


154  THE    TOPOGRAiPHT    OF    IBELAJTD. 


CHAPTEE  XLY. 

HOW    MANX    KINGS    EEIGNED    EEGM    HEEIMON,    THE    FIRST, 
TO    EODERIC,    THE    LAST. 

The  number  of  all  the  kings  who  reigned  in  Ireland  from 
Herimon,  the  first  king  of  this  nation,  to  E/oderic,  the 
last,  was  one  hundred  and  eighty-one ;  whose  names,  acts, 
and  times  I  here  omit,  both  because  I  find  little  remarkable 
and  worthy  of  record  in  their  annals,  and  also  that  1  may 
not  incumber  my  compilation  by  a  useless  prolixity.  The 
abovementioned  kings  acquired  the  monarchy  of  the  en- 
tire island  without  the  sanctions  of  a  solemn  coronation, 
and  the  sacrament  of  unction,  nor  even  by  hereditary  right 
or  any  just  claims  to  the  succession,  but  by  force  of  arms 
alone,  and  seized  the  reins  of  power  after  their  own 
fashion.^ 


CHAPTEE  XL VI. 

HOW  FROM  ITS  FIRST  IMMIGRATION  TO  THE  TIME  OJ 
TtTRGESIUS,  AND  FROM  HIS  DEATH  TO  THE  EXP.  DITIOH 
OF  HENRY  II.,  KING  OF  ENGLAND,  THE  IRISH  RACE  MAIN- 
TAINED   ITS    INDEPENDENCE. 

The  Irish  race  continued  free  and  independent  from  the 
period  of  its  first  immigration,  and  of  Herimon  its  first 
king,  to  the  times  of  Grurmund  and  Turgesius,  by  whom  its 
peace  was  disturbed  and  its  tranquillity  suffered  a  short 
interruption ;  and  again  from  their  death  to  these  our 
times.     During  all  this  period  it  was  unshaken  by  any  in- 

^  This  is  denied  by  Irish  antiquaries  who  inform  us  that  the  kings 
of  Ireland,  in  battle  and  other  public  solemnities,  appeared  crowned 
with  a  diadem.  At  the  memorable  battle  of  Clontarf  king  Brian 
Boroimhe  was  recognised  by  the  crown  he  wore,  and  such  an  ancient 
ornament  was  discovered  iu  1692,  in  a  bog  in  the  county  of  Tipperary. 
It  appears  also,  that  although  the  Irish  kingdoms  were  elective,  like 
those  of  the  English  Heptarchy  and  others,  an  hereditary  right  in  the 
royal  line  was  respected,  except  in  a  few  cases  of  usurpation,  during  the 
long  successions  of  Irish  kings,  although  in  those  turbulent  ages  th» 
most  powerful  and  ambitious  of  the  royal  race  often  succeeded. 


TITLES    AND    TRIUMPHS    OF   HENET   II.  155 

cursions  of  foreign  nations,  until  at  last,  in  these  our  days, 
it  has  been  subjugated  by  you,  most  invincible  kiug,  and 
your  intrepid  courage,  in  the  forty-first  year  of  your  age, 
the  seventeenth  of  your  reign,  and  the  year  of  our  Lord 
1172. 

CHAPTER  XLYII. 

OP  THE  VICTORIES  OF  HENET  II.,  KING  OF   ENGLAND. 

EoE  your  victories  vie  vdth  the  world  itself,  since  you,  our 
Alexander  of  the  West,  have  stretched  out  your  arms 
from  the  Pyrenean  mountains  to  the  farthest  and  most 
western  borders  of  the  ocean.  In  these  parts  you  have 
spread  your  triumphs  as  far  as  nature  has  spread  her 
lands.  If  the  bounds  of  your  expeditions  be  sought,  we 
reach  the  ends  of  the  earth  before  we  find  their  limits. 
For  though  your  brave  spirit  may  find  no  more  lands  to  con- 
quer, victory  never  deserts  it ;  and  its  triumphs  will  never 
fail  but  with  the  want  of  materials  for  triumph. 

CHAPTEE  XLYIII. 

A   SHOET    EECAPITULATION    OF    THE    TITLES   AND  TEIUMPHS 
OF  THE  SAME  KING. 

How  then  has  the  Irish  world  been  added  to  your  titles  and 
triumphs?  By  what  great  and  glorious  inspiration  were 
you  able  to  penetrate  into  the  secrets  of  the  ocean,  and 
nature's  hidden  recesses  ?  How  prematurely,  unreasonably, 
and  iniquitously,  were  you  recalled  by  an  intestine  con- 
spiracy from  your  noble  enterprise,  when  your  triumph, 
indeed,  was  complete,  but  before  you  had  restored  order  in 
the  country  ?  When  your  lightnings  flashed,  how  did  the 
petty  kiugs  of  the  West  fly  to  your  feet,  dazzled  at  the 
light  of  your  presence  here,  like  moths  to  a  candle  ?  How 
unnaturally  and  scandalously  has  the  conspiracy  hatched 
in  the  bowels  of  your  land,  with  such  wicked  and  perfidious 
designs,  much  to  the  detriment  of  all  Christendom,  inter- 
rupted your  victories  both  in  the  East,  in  Asia,  and  in  Spain  ; 
which  your  noble  mind  proposed  to  extend  to  the  West, 
and  thereby  notably  enlarge  the  fold  of  Christ.  What 
mercy  and  what  laudable  clemency,  worthy  of  imitatiqm 


156  THE  TOPOaHAPHT  OF  IRELAND. 

and  of  everlasting  remembrance,  did  you,  a  prince  and 
mortally  offended  king,  exercise  towards  your  proud  and 
haughty  foes,  on  whose  necks  you  trod  with  extraordinary 
vigour,  and  over  whom  you  everywhere  triumphed  ;  you,  a 
conqueror  and  king,  ruling  your  spirit  with  temper,  and 
subduing  your  wrath  with  moderation.  Eor  you  did  not 
forget  the  verse  : — 

"  Vince  animos  iramque  tuam,  qui  caetera  vincis," 

You  revolved  also  in  your  lofty  mind  that  noble  eulogium 
of  Caius  Caesar :  "  The  whole  world  had  perished,  if  mercy 
had  not  extinguished  wrath."  You  had  also  frequently  in 
your  hands  the  book  which  Seneca  addressed  to  Nero  "  On 
Clemency ;"  nor  were  you  mindless  of  the  counsel  he  so 
worthily  gave  to  the  emperor  :  "  Follow,"  he  said,  "  the 
practice  of  physicians,  who,  when  their  usual  remedies  fail 
of  success,  try  their  contraries  "  How  nobly  and  exactly 
have  you  fulfilled  the  words  of  that  great  senator  and  ex- 
cellent orator  ?  "  It  is  the  part  of  a  brave  man  to  consi- 
der those  as  his  enemies  who  contend  with  him  for  victory, 
but  to  judge  the  conquered  as  men  ;  so  that  his  courage 
may  tend  to  diminish  wars,  while  his  clemency  extends 
peace."  With  how  much  pains,  and  with  what  laudable 
diligence  for  one  of  royal  blood,  did  you  apply  yourself  to 
the  study  of  learning,  from  your  earliest  years  and  in  the 
days  of  your  youth  ?  You  did  not  forget  the  words  of 
Jerome  :  "  the  root  of  learning  is  bitter,  but  the  fruit  is  very 
sweet ;"  and  those  of  David,  the  king  and  prophet :  "  Be 
learned  ye  that  are  judges  of  the  earth."  You  also,  who 
are  a  second  Solomon,  called  to  your  recollection  the  words 
of  that  king :  "  Learning  prepareth  food  for  old  age,  and 
discipline  in  youth  maketh  age  fruitful."  Following  such 
examples  as  these,  you  became  a  learned  prince,  and  being 
tolerably  versed  in  profane  literature,  you  shone  like  a  bril- 
liant gem  among  all  the  princes  of  the  world ;  and  would 
have  soon  excelled  the  greatest  philosophers,  both  by  your 
high  natural  endowments,  and  by  the  aids  of  instruction 
and  study,  if  you  had  not  been  so  unseasonably  drawn 
from  the  pursuits  of  learning  to  earthly  cares.  Having 
gained  renown,  during  your  tender  years,  in  both  services, 
namely,  those  of  Mars  and  of  Minerva,  premature  success 


CHAEACTEE    Or    PRINCE    IlENET.  157 

attended  your  high  genius  and  royal  birth.  With  a  grace 
that  has  no  parallel  on  earth,  but  which  was  divinely  con- 
ferred on  you  from  above,  you,  the  friend  and  promoter  of 
concord,  restored  peace  in  your  own  dominions  by  your 
power,  in  foreign  kingdoms  by  your  counsels  and  authority. 
How  has  the  terror  of  your  incomparable  valour  and  great 
name,  and  your  threatened  attacks,  and  your  renown  blazing 
through  the  world,  though  less  than  it  merited,  curbed 
the  raging  fury  of  the  heathens,  both  in  Europe  and  Asia, 
and  secured  peace  and  tranquillity  to  the  church  of  Christ. 
What  prodigal  libei-ality  and  profuse  kindness  have  you 
ever  shown  to  foreigners  and  strangers,  to  your  own  great 
glory,  and  sometimes  to  the  loss  of  those  about  you  :  how 
indiscriminating  has  been  your  bounty  to  aliens.  And 
since  no  one  is  born  without  fault,  and  he  is  best  who  has 
the  least,  the  few  spots  which  darken  your  fair  fame  are  to 
be  regarded  with  indulgence,  like  clouds  which  pass  over 
the  face  of  the  sun.  Since  th  en,  from  your  earliest  years, 
you  have  made  your  paths  straight,  and  trodden  down 
rough  places,  laying  a  heavy  hand  on  those  who  withheld 
your  crown,  and  disturbed  your  peace,  how  all  things  have 
prospered,  and  the  divine  favour  has  attended  so  pacific  a 
king,  and  one  so  serviceable  to  all  Christian  people ;  all  this, 
I  say,  who  shall  fully  relate  ? 


CHAPTEE  XLIX. 

OF  THE  CHAEACTEES  OF  HIS  SONS  ;  AND  FIEST  OP 
HENET  III.,  KINa  OF  ENGLAND. 

But  since 

Semper  adest  homini  quo  pectoris  ima  gemiscant, 

Ne  possit  plena  prosperitate  frui  ; 
Gaudia  nunc  luctu,  nunc  mutat  amara  secundis, 

Versans  humanas  sors  inopina  vices. 
Sola  venire  solent  et  vix,  et  sero,  secunda  ; 

Et  simul,  et  subito,  semper  amara  fluunt : 

So,  I  say,  the  divine  mercy  has  always  smiled  on  you  in 
almost  all  affairs,  giving  a  prosperous  issue  to  events  ;  and 
I  wish  that  it  had  so  continued  to  the  end,  that  (like  one 
cutting  to  the  quick,  and  a  too  powerful  dose  of  medicine) 


',68  THE    TOPOGEAPHT    OF    lEELAlTD. 

when  the  sons  were  in  arms  against  their  father,  and 
counted  his  years  before  the  time,  it  had  spared  the  father 
more  than,  out  of  favour  to  the  father,  those  who  were 
dearest  to  him.  The  most  illustrious  of  these,  and,  after 
one  was  taken,  the  eldest,^  who  enjoyed  his  father's  name 
and  style,  like  another  Hector,  son  of  Priam,  was  an 
honour  to  his  friends,  the  terror  of  his  enemies,  and  the  de- 
light of  all.  In  arms  he  was  like  the  thunderbolt  winged 
by  lightning,  the  only  hope  or  fear  of  all. 

Oninis  honoris  honos  decoret,  decus  urbis  etorbis, 

Militiae  splendor,  gloria,  lumen,  apex. 
Julius  ingenio,  virtutibus  Hector,  Achilles 

Viribus,  Augustus  moribuB,  ore  Paris. 

Id  peace,  and  in  private  life,  he  was  courteous,  affable, 
gentle,  and  amiable,  kindly  indulgent  to  those  by  whom 
he  chances  to  be  injured,  and  far  more  disposed  to  forgive 
than  to  punish  the  offenders.  His  disposition  was  so 
good  that  he  could  never  refuse  to  give  anything  that 
was  fitting,  thinking  that  no  one  ought  to  leave  his  pre- 
sence sorrowful,  or  disappointed  of  his  hopes.  In  short, 
he  considered  that  he  had  lost  a  day  when  he  had  not 
secured  the  attachment  of  many  by  various  acts  of  libe- 
rality, and  bound  them  to  him,  body  and  soul,  by  multiplied 
favours  conferred. 

When  in  arms  and  engaged  in  war,  no  sooner  was  the 
helmet  on  his  head  than  he  assumed  a  lofty  air,  and  became 
impetuous,  bold,  and  fiercer  than  any  wild  beast.  His 
triumphs  were  often  gained  more  by  his  valour  than  by 
fortune  ;  and  he  was  in  all  respects  another  Hector,  son 
of  Priam,  except  that  the  one  fought  on  behalf  of  his 
father  and  his  country,  and  the  other,  alas!  was  led  by 
evil  counsels  to  fight  against  both.  It  was  his  only  desire, 
and  the  summit  of  his  wishes,  to  have  the  means  and  oppor- 
tunity of  employing  his  great  valour,  so  that  his  martial 
genius  might  be  fully  displayed.  Nothing  human,  how- 
ever, can  be  entirely  perfect,  and  so,  envious  nature,  loth 
that  so  many  good  qualities  should  be  united  in  one  person 

^  Henry,  the  eldest  son  of  Henry  II.,  was  crowned  at  Westminster 
on  the  13th  July,  1170,  in  his  father's  lifetime.  He  was  usually  spoke 
of  as  Heurv  111.,  until  the  son  of  king  John  ascended  the  tlirone. 


CHAEACTEE    OT   THE    COUNT    OF    POITOTJ.  159 

without  alloy,  added  one  most  sio^nal  blemish  ;  making  him 
only  notorious  for  his  ingratitude,  and  for  the  trouble  he 
caused  to  his  excellent  father.^  Wonderful  as  was  his  ca- 
reer, one  thing  appears  almost  miraculous,  namely,  that 
almost  all  the  world  attached  themselves  to  a  man  who  was 
totally  without  resources,  either  in  money  or  territory.  It 
was  hoped  that,  before  long,  he  would  have  restored  order 
in  the  government  of  the  world,  had  not  the  envious  course 
of  fate  suddenly,  prematurely,  and  unexpectedly,  carried 
him  off  in  the  flower  of  his  youth,  and  in  the  spring-time 
of  the  year.  He  died  in  the  twenty-ninth  year  of  his  age, 
the  fourteenth  of  his  coronation,  and  the  year  of  our  Lord 
1182, 

CHAPTEE   L. 

OF   THE    CHAEACTEE    OF    THE    COUNT    OF    POITOU. 

The  crier's  voice  shall  not  be  silent  on  the  merits  of  one 
who  is  worthy  of  praise.  By  his  father's  wise  provision, 
he  bore  a  name  belonging  to  his  father's  family,  and  been 
invested  with  his  mother's  territories,"  although  still  young, 
he  speedily  reduced  to  obedience  a  country  hitherto  ungo- 
vernable, and  rilled  it  with  so  much  prudence,  that  he  not  only 
brought  its  wildest  parts  to  a  state  of  tranquillity  unknown 
before,  but  re-annexed  to  it  many  districts  which  had  been 
long  detached  and  dismembered  from  it.  Introducing 
order  amongst  a  disorderly  people,  establishing  law  where 
all  was  lawless,  beating  down  opposing  obstacles,  and  level- 
ling all  that  was  rough,  he  restored  the  ancient  boundaries 
and  rights  of  Aquitaine.  Like  another  Caesar,  he  pushed 
his  fortune  to  the  utmost,  anticipated  future,  and  was  equal 
to  present  emergencies,  and  lost  no  time  in  following  up 
his  successes.  Thinking  "  nothing  done  while  aught  re- 
mained undone,"  and  fierce  in  his  encounters  in  arms,  he  was 

'  Roger  de  Hoveden  gives  particular  details  of  the  unhappy  dissen- 
■ions  between  Henry  II.  and  his  sons.  See  vol,  i.  p.  3(i7,  &c.  in  Bofln's 
Jntig.  Lib. 

2  Richard  appears  to  hare  had  that  christian  name  conferred  on  him 
in  consequence  of  his  descent  from  the  dukes  of  Kormandy  of  the 
•ame  name.  His  father  invested  him  with  his  mother's  territories  in 
Poitou,  &c. 


160  THE    TOPOGRAPHY    OF    lEELATsD. 

only  happy  when  lie  marked  lils  steps  with  blood ;  nor  could 
inaccessible  cliffs,  crowned  with  towers  which  art  and  situa- 
tion had  rendered  hitherto  impregnable,  withstand  his  bold 
assaults  ;  whether  thy  were  made  by  force  of  arms  or  strata- 
gem ;  whether  they  were  directed  against  the  battlements,  or 
sapped  the  foundations  of  the  fortresses.  But  evil  follows 
on  the  heels  of  good,  and  virtue  itself  is  often  led  into  error 
and  crime.  Thus  the  over  zealous  assertor  of  the  rights  of 
peace  and  justice,  was  led  to  execute  the  laws  with  furious 
rigour  against  evil-doers,  in  order  to  curb  the  audacity  of  a 
stubborn  people,  and  make  the  innocent  secure  in  the 
midst  of  the  guilty.  This  ought  to  have  earned  for  him  due 
praise  from  those  who  were  right-minded  ;  but  the  railings 
of  the  disaffected  raised  against  him  a  popular  cry  accusing 
him  of  cruelty.  It  appears,  however,  that  he  incurred 
this  imputation  without  any  sufficient  grounds  ;  as,  the  de- 
mands for  such  severity  soon  abating,  he  reassumed  his  na- 
tural gentleness  and  clemency,  and  his  rigid  administration 
gradually  settled  into  the  golden  mean,  as  far  from  cruelty 
as  it  was  from  being  remiss. 

Besides,  the  author  of  nature  has  joined  suffering  to  the 
nature  it  has  called  into  existence.  Thus  our  lion-hearted 
prince,^  who  is  more  than  a  lion,  is  troubled  with  a  quartan 
ague,  as  lions  are,  as  a  means  of  subduing  the  fierce  im- 
pulses of  his  spirit.  Quaking  under  continual  accesses  of 
this  disorder,  but  not  from  fear,  his  quaking  makes  the  whole 
world  to  tremble  and  to  fear  likewise.  In  short,  among  the 
several  virtues  for  which  he  is  distinguished,  there  are  three 
which  are  incomparably  eminent,  and  shed  a  peculiar  lustre 
on  his  character.  These  are,  his  brilliant  courage ;  his 
boundless  liberality  so  worthy  of  a  prince,  and  gracing  so 
well  his  other  virtues ;  and  his  resolute  firmness  both  of 
mind  and  word.  In  conclusion,  to  sum  up  much  that  might 
be  said,  in  a  brief  eulogy,  he  is  second  to  his  illustrious 
brother  in  age  only,  and  not  in  merit. 

Bichard  Coeur  de  Lioiu 


DIFFERENT    CHAEACTEES    OF    THE    BEOTHEKS.         16J 


OF    THE    DIFFEEENCE    IN    PERSON   AND    CHAEACTEE    BE- 
TWEEN  THE    TWO    BEOTHEES. 

DiFFEEENT  as  were  the  habits  and  pursuits  of  the  two  bro- 
thers,' sprung  from  the  same  stock  and  the  same  root,  each 
has  merited  everlastiug  glory  and  endless  fame.  They  were 
both  tall  in  stature,  rather  above  the  middle  size,  and  of 
commanding  aspect.  In  courage  and  magnanimity  they 
were  nearly  equal;  but  in  the  character  of  their  virtues 
there  was  a  great  disparity.  One  was  admirable  for  gentle- 
ness and  liberality,  the  other  distinguished  himself  by  his 
severity  and  firmness.  The  one  had  a  commendable  suavity, 
the  other  gravity.  One  was  commended  for  his  easy  tem- 
per, the  other  for  his  determined  spirit.  One  was  remark- 
able for  his  clemency,  the  other  for  his  justice.  The  vile  and 
undeserving  found  their  refuge  in  the  one,  their  punishment 
from  the  other.  One  was  the  shield  of  bad  men,  the  other  the 
hammer  to  crush  them.  The  one  was  bent  on  martial  sports, 
the  other  on  serious  conflicts.  The  one  bestowed  his  favours 
on  foreigners,  the  other  on  his  own  people  ;  the  one  on  all  the 
world,  the  other  on  the  worthy  only.  The  one's  ambition 
magnanimously  compassed  the  world  ;  the  other  coveted,  to 
good  purpose,  what  was  rightfully  his  own. 

But  why  should  I  dwell  on  such  details  ?  Neither  the 
present  age,  nor  any  former  times,  have  seen  two  princes 
born  of  the  same  king,  so  noble,  and  yet  so  difterent.  Yet 
the  germs  of  their  great  and  various  virtues,  and  of  far 
greater  still,  if  it  were  possible,  might  all  be  derived,  differ- 
ent as  they  were,  in  rich  abundance,  from  their  illustrious 
stock.  Whatever  good  qualities  you  find  in  either  of  them, 
you  know  were  transfused  from  the  root  into  the  branches. 
For  who  was  ever  more  merciful  to  the  meek,  or  more  cruel 
to  the  fierce,  than  their  right  noble  father  ?  But  still  his 
tendency  was  to  mercy.  After  every  victory,  thinking  it  his 
supreme  revenge  to  have  had  it  in  his  power  to  take  ven- 
geance. "Who  was  braver  in  arms — who  more  subtle  in 
counsel  ?  Who  could  ever  be  more  cheerful  with  the  light- 
hearted,  or  more  serious  with  the  grave  ?     I  must  not  de- 

1  Henry,  the  young  titular  king,  and  Richard,  who  succeeded  to  tht 
ihrone  on  their  father's  death. 


162  THE    TOPOGRAPH  r    OF    lEELAlS"!). 

fraud  history  of  its  truth,  although  there  is  sometimes  dan- 
ger in  telliug  all  that  is  true ;  for  it  is  a  perilous  thing  on 
any  occasion  to  use  your  pen  against  one  who  can  proscribe 
you  by  a  stroke  of  his ;  it  is  hazardous  to  bring  charges 
against  one  who  can  send  you  into  banishment.  Still,  I 
will  ask,  who  carried  himself  more  nobly  among  the  lower 
orders  ?  who  lowered  himself  so  much  among  the  nobility  ? 
Who  more  exalted  the  humble  ?  who  more  humbled  the 
proud  ?  Again,  who  was  ever  more  favourable  to  foreign- 
ers ?  who  more  burthensome  to  his  own  people  ?  Who,  I 
say,  held  himself  more  aloof  from  his  friends,  or  was  more 
friendly  to  aliens  ?  For  at  one  time  pretending  to  a  cha- 
racter not  his  own,  at  another  dissembling  what  belonged  to 
himself,  he  rendered  his  disposition  so  flexible  in  his  great 
prudence,  that  filling  different  characters  to  different  per- 
sons, and  becoming  all  things  to  all  men,  he  made  all  things 
conform  to  his  own  will,  as  time  and  place  required 

OF  THE  PEINCES  OF  BBITANT  AND  IRELAND.^ 

The  Armori can-British  and  the  Irish  dominions  proclaim 
the  well-merited  praises  of  the  two  others.  Both  of 
them  were  of  rather  short  stature,  a  little  below  the  middle 
height ;  and  for  their  size  were  well-shaped  enough.  Of 
these,  the  one  is  already  distinguished  by  his  virtues,  and 
has  attained  the  highest  honours  ;  the  other  will.  The  one 
is  well  versed  in  military  affairs  ;  the  other  has  to  be  in- 
structed in  them.  The  one  is  corn  in  the  ear,  the  other  in 
the  blade.  The  one  is  already  great  in  action,  the  other 
leads  us  to  expect  he  will  be  great ;  for  not  degenerating 
from  his  high  origin,  he  has  equalled  his  most  noble  brothers 
in  worth  as  far  as  his  powers  admit.  Hence  whether  he 
originally  derived  it  from  the  parent  stock  or  from  parity 
[with  his  brothers],  it  could  not  degenerate  in  his  time. 
The  one  is  an  eloquent  and  astute  man,  and  as  he  could  not 
easily  be  deceived,  is  most  prudent,  if  he  would  not  deceive. 
In  two  wars,  and  in  various  ways  imitating  Ulysses  as  well 
as  Achilles,  he  has  been  ever,  alas !  ungrateful  to  his  father, 
and  in  this  has  trod  in  the  footsteps  of  his  elder  brother, 
too  plainly  marked.     He  has  more  aloes  than  honey  in  him ; 

1  Geoffrey,  count  of  Britaiiy,  and  John,  on  whom  his  father  conferred 
the  dominion  of  Ireland. 


THE    PRINCES    OE    BRITAKT   AND    lEELAND.  163 

his  tongue  is  smoother  than  oil ;  his  sweet  and  persuasive 
eloquence  has  enabled  him  to  dissolve  the  firmest  alliances  ; 
and  his  powers  of  language  to  throw  two  kingdoms  into  con- 
fusion ;  for  with  wonderful  industry  he  assumes  all  shapes, 
and  dissembles  all  his  designs.  But  as  a  man  of  many- 
words  will  not  be  guided  in  his  ways  on  the  earth,  the  Lord 
hath  not  directed  his  goings,  nor  multiplied  his  days. 

The  other,^  led  away  by  the  fervour  of  youth  and  en- 
snared by  its  passions,  is  prone  to  vice,  and  rude  to  his  mo- 
nitors ;  lending  himself  to  the  seductions  of  his  time  of 
life,  instead  of  resisting  the  impulses  of  nature.  Hitherto, 
therefore,  by  reason  of  his  age,  he  is  more  given  to  plea- 
sures than  to  arms,  to  dalliance  than  to  endurance  ;  to  juve- 
nile levity,  more  as  yet,  than  to  manly  maturity,  which  he 
has  not  attained.  He  employs  most  of  his  time  in  those 
evil  courses  which  gallants  pursue,  by  which  even  youths 
who  are  naturally  good  are  often  roused  to  feats  of  arms, 
and  soar  from  the  camp  of  Cupid  to  the  arts  and  towers  of 
Pallas.  As,  then,  he  has  obeyed  the  laws  of  green  youth, 
so  he  will  conform  to  those  of  subsequent  age.  Since, 
therefore,  it  is  no  disgrace  to  have  enjoyed  the  pleasures  of 
youth,  but  the  shame  lies  in  not  bringing  them  to  an  end, 
juvenile  levity  is  excusable  if  the  mature  age  be  commend- 
able ;  and  that  stage  of  life  is  blameless,  if  age  sets  bounds 
to  indulgence.  The  tree  which  bends  its  boughs  downwards 
cannnot  strike  deep  roots. 

This  is  the  last  of  the  three  brothers ;  may  he  not  be  the 
last  in  virtue  ;  but  being  always  dutiful  to  both  his  parents, 
may  his  days  be  long  and  prosperous  on  earth  !  May  he 
as  truly  conform  to  the  description  given  by  Merlinus 
Ambrosius,  in  a  prophecy  much  noised  abroad,  of  the  man 
before  whom  the  walls  of  Ireland  shall  fall,  as  he  appears 
to  answer  to  it.  "  His  beginning,"  it  says,  "  shall  be  aban- 
ioned  to  loose  living,  but  his  end  shall  waft  him  to  heaven," 

*  Friuce  John,  afterwards  king  of  England,  and  lord  of  Ireland. 


ic  2 


164  THE   TOPOGEAPHT   OP   lEELAH'D.  ^*  > 


HOW   THE    BEOTHEES    QUAEEELLED    BETWEEN   THEMSELVES, 
AlfD    WITH    THEIE   EATHEE. 

0  TE  gods,  if  these  illustrious  brothers  tad  been  united 
by  the  ties  of  fraternal  love,  and  had  regarded  their  father 
with  filial  affection,  if  they  had  been  bound  together  by  the 
twofold  cords  of  good- will  and  of  nature,  how  great,  how  in- 
estimable, how  splendid  and  incomparable  in  the  present 
age,  would  have  been  the  glory  of  the  father,  and  the  tri- 
umphs of  the  sons  ?  How  worthy  would  have  been  their 
history,  worthy  of  the  genius  of  a  Maro,  to  be  given  to 
memory  ?  What  valour  could  resist  their  prowess ;  what 
kings,  such  princes ;  what  realms,  such  warlike  chiefs  ? 
The  world  itself  is  too  small  to  allow  scope  for  the  exercise 
of  so  much  bravery ;  and  the  surface  of  the  earth  would 
scarcely  suffice  to  contain  the  triumphal  annals  of  such 
valour.  To  what  a  magnitude,  and  height,  and  strength  the 
tree  would  have  grown,  if  the  branches  had  been  naturally 
knit  together,  and  had  drawn  their  sap  from  the  roots,  is  mani- 
fest from  the  premature  decay  and  heavy  fall  of  what  was 
so  precious.  For  as  branches  lopped  from  the  stem  of  a  tree 
cannot  reunite,  so  the  tree  stripped  of  its  boughs,  a  treason- 
able outrage,  is  shorn  both  of  its  dignity  aud  gracefulness. 

OE   THE    SAXON,    SPANIAED,    AND    SICILIAN.^ 

How  three  noble  shoots  sprung  from  one  weak  root  in  the 
west,  or  rather,  how  three  most  brilliant  rays  of  one  sun 
which  rose  in  the  "West,  shone  brightly  on  three  opposite 
parts  of  Europe,  would  be  a  fitting  sequel  to  my  present 
theme.  I  shall  endeavour  to  compile  a  full  and  true,  but 
short,  history  of  this  important  and  difficult  matter,  which 
is  worthy  the  pen  of  a  far  higher  genius,  if  I  have  your 
commands  to  employ  mine  on  the  subject.  For  nothing 
can  or  ought  to  be  thought  a  heavy  task  which  is  enjoined 
by  so  high  a  Majesty. 

1  The  husbands  of  king  Henry's  three  daughters,  of  whom  the  eldest, 
Maud,  was  married  to  Henry  the  Lion,  duke  of  Saxony,  the  second, 
named  Eleanor,  to  Alfonso  YIII.,  king  of  Castile,  and  Joan,  the 
youngest,  to  WilKam  II.,  king  of  Sicily.  The  last,  after  her  husband*» 
death,  married  Raymond,  count  of  Toulouse. 

THE  END  OE  THE  TOPOGEAPHY  OE  lEELAND. 


THE  VATICINAL 

HISTORY  OF  THE  CONQUEST  OF  lEELAND. 


THE  AUTHOR'S  FIRST  PREFACE. 

FoEASMUCH  as  in  my  Topography  of  Ireland  I  have  de- 
scribed at  large  the  site  of  the  island,  its  singularities,  and 
those  of  sundry  things  contained  in  it,  the  marvels  in  which 
nature  has  there  indulged  out  of  her  ordinary  course,  and 
the  origin  of  the  various  races  settled  in  it  from  the  earliest 
ages  until  these  our  own  days,  I  have  now  undertaken,  at 
the  earnest  request  of  many  persons  of  high  rank,  to  set 
forth  in  a  separate  volume  the  annals  of  events  which  have 
occurred  in  our  own  days  relating  to  the  last  and  recent 
conquest  of  Ireland.  For  if  I  have  been  able  to  give  a  to- 
lerably clear  account  of  times  long  past,  and  of  things 
which  happened  in  ages  so  far  preceding  our  own,  how 
much  more  exact  will  be  my  narrative  of  transactions  which 
have  taken  place  under  my  own  observation,  of  the  greatest 
part  of  which  I  have  been  an  eye-witness,  and  which  are  sO 
fresh  in  my  memory  that  I  cannot  have  any  doubt  about 
them.  The  Topography  treats  of  localities  and  events  con- 
nected with  ancient  times,  the  History  deals  with  the  pre- 
sent. 

But  methinks  I  see  some  one  turn  up  his  nose,  and,  dis- 
gusted with  my  book,  hand  it  to  another,  or  throw  it  aside, 
because  the  reader  will  find  all  things  in  it  plain,  clear,  and 
easy  of  apprehension.  But  let  him  know  that  I  have  writ- 
ten chiefly  for  the  use  of  the  laity,  and  of  princes  who  have 


166  THE   CONQUEST   OF  IfiEtANH.  T 

but  little  learning,  and  desire  things  to  be  related  in  so 
simple  and  easy  a  style,  that  all  may  understand  them.  Fop 
we  may  be  permitted  to  use  popular  language  when  the  acta 
of  the  people,  as  well  as  of  their  superiors,  are  to  be  re- 
duced to  writing.  Besides,  it  has  been  my  endeavour  to 
compose  all  my  works  in  a  popular  style,  easy  of  apprehen- 
sion, however  I  may  have  added  to  it  some  ornament  from 
my  own  stores ;  and  I  have  therefore  entirely  rejected  the 
old  and  dry  method  of  writing  used  by  some  authors.  And, 
inasmuch  as  new  times  require  new  fashions,  and  the  philo- 
sopher bids  us  follow  the  examples  of  the  old  men  in  our 
lives,  and  of  the  younger  men  in  our  words,  I  have  earnestly 
aimed  to  adopt  the  mode  of  speech  which  is  now  in  use, 
and  the  modern  style  of  eloquence.  For  since  words  only 
give  expression  to  what  is  in  the  mind,  and  man  is  endowed 
with  the  gift  of  speech  for  the  purp€>se  of  uttering  his 
thoughts,  what  can  be  a  greater  folly  than  to  lock  up  and 
conceal  things  we  wish  to  be  clearly  understood,  in  a  tissue 
of  unintelligible  phrases  and  intricate  sentences  ?  To  shew 
ourselves  sciolists  in  a  knowledge  of  our  own,  shall  we  take 
pains  so  to  write,  that  others  may  see  without  comprehend- 
ing, and  hear  without  understanding  ?  Is  it  not  better,  as 
Seneca  says,  to  be  dumb,  than  to  speak  so  as  not  to  be  un- 
derstood ?  The  more,  then,  language  is  suited  to  the  under- 
standing, though  framed  with  a  certain  elegance  of  style, 
the  more  useful  it  will  be,  as  well  as  more  suited  to  the 
tastes  of  men  of  letters.     Wherefore  the  potet  says, 

Dixeris  egregie  notum  si  caHida  rerbttm 
Keddiderit  junct^ranoTum. 

Inasmuch  also  as  some  malevolent  person  has  made  slan- 
derous attacks  on  my  Topography,  a  work  not  to  be  de- 
spised, I  have  thought  it  worth  my  while  to  introduce  here 
a  few  words  in  its  defence.^  The  elegance  of  its  scholastic 
style  has  obtained  uniform  praise  from  all  quarters  ;  and 
though  it  is  contrary  to  my  detractor's  nature  to  commend 
anything,  he  is  ashamed  and  afraid  to  cavil  at  my  Tirst  and 
Third  Distinctions.  But  it  is  no  easy  matter  to  act  a  coun- 
terfeit part,  and  my  critic,  not  being  able  quite  to  change 

1  This  book  against  Giraldus's  Topography  of  Ireland  appears  to  b« 
loftt,  and  even  the  author's  name  is  vinknow». 


Tlli?   AtrxKOE's   PIEST   PREFACE.  167 

his  natural  disposition,  that  he  might  at  least  do  some  mis- 
chief, and  vent  the  malignity  with  which  he  was  burstiDg,  he 
boldly  cavils  at  the  Second  Distinction,  hoping  that  by  con- 
victing me  of  falsehood  in  that  he  shall  discredit  the  whole. 
His  objections  are  of  this  sort : — the  author,  he  says,  "  in- 
troduces a  wolf  talking  with  a  priest ;  he  draws  a  picture  of 
a  creature  with  the  body  of  a  man,  and  the  extremities  of  an 
ox ;  he  tells  us  of  a  bearded  woman ;  and  of  a  goat  and  a 
lion  which  had  intercourse  with  women."  Let  him,  how- 
ever, if  he  is  so  shocked  at  these  stories,  read  in  the 
Book  of  Numbers  how  Baalam's  ass  spoke,  and  the  prophet 
chid  the  ass.  Let  him  read  the  lives  of  the  Fathers,  and  he 
will  find  Anthony  conversing  with  a  satyr ;  and  that  Paul 
the  hermit  was  fed  in  the  desert  by  a  raven.  Let  him  also 
read  the  other  voluminous  works  of  Jerome,  the  Hexameron 
of  Ambrose,  and  the  Dialogues  of  Gregory.  He  will  find 
Augustine's  volume  "  De  Civitate  Dei,"  and  especially 
Books  16  and  21,  full  of  prodigies.  Let  him  also  read  the 
eleventh  Book  of  Isidore's  Etymologies,  concerning  mar- 
vels ;  his  twelfth  Book,  respecting  beasts ;  and  his  sixteenth, 
respecting  precious  stones  and  their  virtues.  Let  him  also 
examine  the  works  of  Valerius  Maximus,  Trogus  Pompeius, 
Pliny,  and  Solinus ;  and  in  all  these  he  wiU  find  many 
things  at  which  he  may  cavil  in  the  same  manner.  After 
reading  these,  I  say,  will  he  condemn  the  whole  works  of 
these  great  writers  on  account  of  some  extraordinary  ac- 
counts which  they  have  inserted  in  them  ?  But  let  him  be 
better  advised,  and  consider  well  the  remark  of  St.  Jerome, 
that  there  are  many  things  contained  in  the  Scriptures 
which,  though  they  seem  to  be  incredible,  are  nevertheless 
true.  For  nature  cannot  prevail  against  the  God  of  nature  ; 
and  every  creature  ought  not  to  abhor,  but  to  admire  and 
hold  in  reverence,  the  works  of  the  Creator.  To  adopt  also 
the  words  of  Augustine  on  this  subject :  "  How  can  any- 
thing be  against  nature  which  exists  by  the  will  of  the  great 
Creator  ?"  A  prodigy  therefore  is  not  contrary  to  nature, 
but  contrary  to  the  common  course  of  nature  ;  and  therefore, 
as  it  is  not  impossible  for  God  to  ordain  and  create  whatso- 
ever things  he  listeth,  no  more  is  it  impossible  for  him  to 
alter  and  change  into  what  forms  he  listeth  the  things  he 
has  already  created. 


168  THE    COJfQtJEST    OF   lEEtANB. 

Still  I  do  not  desire  that  every  thing  I  have  stated  should 
be  blindly  received  as  an  undoubted  truth  ;  for  I  myself  do 
not  so  firmly  believe  in  all  of  them  that  I  have  no  sort  of 
doubt  in  my  own  mind  concerning  them,  those  only  excepted 
of  which  I  have  myself  had  proof  by  personal  experience,  or 
which  may  easily  be  made  the  subject  of  experiment  by  any 
man.  I'or  the  rest,  I  so  account  of  them,  as  neither  afBrming 
nor  denying  their  truth.  Those  who  possess  and  know  the 
value  of  precious  stones  from  India,  do  not  wonder  at  them 
80  much  as  those  who  never  saw  them  before  ;  and  if  they 
had  never  seen  them,  they  probably  would  not  believe  that 
such  things  existed,  or  if  they  did  believe  it,  would  marvel 
at  that  of  which  they  had  no  experience.  But  repeated  obser- 
vation removes  the  incentives  to  wonder;  for  things  of  which 
we  have  ocular  proofs  every  day  come  by  use  to  be  lightly 
esteemed,  although  in  themselves  they  are  as  wonderful  as 
ever.  Thus  the  Indians  set  little  value  on  their  commodi- 
ties, which  when  brought  here  are  objects  of  admiration. 
Hence  Augustine,  when  speaking  of  the  gospel,  where  water 
was  changed  into  wine,  saith  :  "Marvellous  is  the  power  of 
God  in  the  creation  and  government  of  the  heaven  and  the 
earth,  and  in  the  daily  conversion  of  the  water,  which  the 
vines  imbibe  from  rain,  into  wine,  and  in  the  growth  of  corn 
and  trees  from  a  grain  of  seed  ;  and  yet,  because  these  are 
natural  occurrences,  we  make  no  account  of  them.  Where- 
fore God  hath  reserved  to  himself  some  things  out  of  the 
common  course  of  nature,  though  they  be  of  less  import- 
ance, in  order  to  bring  to  the  memory  the  power  which  he 
exercises  on  a  larger  scale." 

Let,  then,  my  detractor  see  and  acknowledge  that  the 
Lord  of  nature  hath  purposedly  done  many  things  before 
the  eyes  of  man  contrary  to  the  common  course  of  nature, 
in  order  that  it  may  be  very  evident  that  God's  power  far 
exceedeth  man's  knowledge,  and  His  divinity  surpasseth 
man's  understanding.  Cassiodorus  therefore  saith  : "  It  is  a 
great  point  of  knowledge  in  man  to  understand  that  God 
can  and  does  perform  such  great  and  wonderful  things  as 
far  transcend  the  capacity  of  the  human  intellect  to  compre- 
hend. For  nature  doth  always,  and  as  it  were  purposely, 
interlard  her  regular  operations  with  some  new  forms,  in 
order  that  although  her  ordinary  works  may  be  in  some 


tSE  atjthoe's  secokd  peeface.  169 

measure  within  man's  comprehension,  nevertheless  he  may 
be  unable  to  comprehend  the  whole  of  her  powers.  If, 
then,  these  old  writers  have  so  carefully  inserted  in  their 
works  accounts  of  the  wonders  which  occurred  in  their 
days,  setting  us  the  example  of  using  the  same  freedom  in 
recording  what  is  strauge  and  contrary  to  the  usual  course 
of  nature  in  our  time  and  in  our  country,  why  should  I, 
unless  the  whole  world  is  given  up  to  wickedness,  be  cen- 
sured and  maligned  ?  And  if  any  new  and  strange  thing 
be  brought  to  light  through  my  work,  let  not  the  malicious 
forthwith  cavil  at  and  condemn  it ;  but  excusing  some 
things,  and  approving  others,  suffer  us  to  proceed  with  our 
undertaking.     For,  as  the  poet  says  : — 

"  Si  patribus  nostris  novitas  invita  fuisset, 
Ut  nobis,  quid  nunc  esset  vetus  ?     Aut  quid  haberet, 
Quod  legeret,  tereretque  viritim  publicus  usus  ?"' 

Let  them,  therefore,  cease  to  condemn  anything  because 
it  is  new,  because  in  the  lapse  of  time  the  novelty  ends,  and 
it  becomes  old.  In  such  matters,  the  present  age  may  find 
things  it  cannot  explain,  and  which  yet  posterity  may  glory 
in.  The  one  may  be  offended  by  what  the  other  will  read  j 
the  one  may  find  reason  to  condemn  what  the  other  will 
esteem ;  the  one  may  reject  what  the  other  will  accept. 


THE  SECOND  PREFACE 

OF  SILYESTEE  GIEALDHS  CAMBEENSIS. 
Hathtg  been  often  requested,  and  that  by  many  persons, 
to  write  the  history  of  such  of  the  memorable  acts  per- 
formed in  my  own  times  as  I  have  either  heard  reported  by 
credible  witnesses,  or  seen  with  my  own  eyes,  I  was  wont 
to  allege  in  excuse  the  wickedness  of  the  age.  For,  cer- 
tainly, luxury  and  wantonness  have  so  much  increased,  and 
become  so  riotous  and  absorbing,  that  men  are  only  careful 
to  pamper  their  bodies,  and  the  mind  is  held  in  total  thral- 
dom. Nevertheless,  reflecting  and  carefully  considering 
how  very  useful  the  knowledge  of  these  matters  will  be  to 

»  Hor.  Epist.  ii.  1,  90. 

/ 


170  THE  CONQUEST  OF  lEELANB. 

posterity,  and  that  nothing  is  more  pernicious  and  hurtful 
to  a  laudable  genius  and  studious  mind  than  the  idleness 
contracted  by  a  slothful  disposition,  I  at  length  persuaded 
myself,  though  not  without  much  difficulty,  to  yield  to  these 
requests,  and  take  my  pen  in  hand.  Yet  what  can  be  more 
presumptuous  than  to  write  when  leisure  is  wanting ;  to 
publish  books  which  are  to  be  in  everyone's  hands,  when  we 
have  no  time  to  read  them  over  ourselves  ;  to  submit  them 
to  the  criticism  of  a  crowd  of  envious  and  malignant  judges, 
without  having  ourselves  revised  them  ?  Tally,  that  well- 
Bpring  of  eloquence,  being  on  some  occasion  asked  to 
make  an  oration,  excused  himself  on  the  ground  that  he  had 
not  prepared  himself  by  reading  the  day  before.  If  so 
great  a  master  of  language  is  found  requiring  the  advan- 
tages of  study,  what  must  be  the  case  with  others  ?  And  truly, 
the  powers  of  the  human  mind  are  apt  to  decay,  unless 
they  are  refreshed  by  continual  exercise ;  for  reading  is,  as 
it  were,  the  daily  food  and  aliment  by  which  eloquence  is 
fed  and  nourished.  As  the  stock  gathered  in  the  barns  is 
soon  exhausted  if  it  be  not  kept  up  by  fresh  supplies,  and 
stores  of  wealth  are  soon  spent,  if  they  are  not  renewed ;  so 
man's  imperfect  knowledge  is  speedily  exhau&ted,  unless  it 
have  recourse  to  foreign  aids.  "We  are  constituted  of  two 
natures — one  temporal,  the  other  eternal ;  and,  having  res- 
pect to  both,  must  devote  the  earthly  and  transitory  part 
of  our  existence  to  things  trifling  and  temporal,  while,  as 
to  that  within  us  which  is  permanent,  we  aspire  to  glory 
that  fadeth  not  away.  The  cares  attending  a  place  at  court 
may  for  a  time  engage  the  bodily  powers,  but  those  of  the 
mind  are  free,  and  cannot  be  stifled  or  enthralled ;  and 
though  sometimes  acting  under  our  own  impulse,  and  some- 
times under  the  influence  of  others,  should  always  take 
their  own  course,  and  glory  in  their  freedom.  As  for  the 
outward  man,  let  it  wander  abroad  and  be  troubled  about 
many  things,  and  amuse  itself  with  vain  and  trifling  toys, 
following  the  variable  dictates  of  the  wills,  and  subject  to 
the  wretched  and  humiliating  laws  of  the  flesh ;  but  let  the 
treasure  within,  like  the  kernel  in  the  shell,  enjoy  the  in- 
nate privilege  which  Grod  has  bestowed  upon  it,  and  be  so 
fenced  round,  that  in  a  crowd  it  be  not  bewildered,  in  trouble 
it  be  not  disturbed,  in  solitude  it  be  not  lonesome. 


**  THE  ATTTHOe's    SECOITD  PREFACE.  171 

God  and  the  king  have  each  their  several  rights  of  power 
and  authority  over  us.  The  king  can  only  exercise  domi- 
nion over  the  body,  but  He  alone  possesses  the  subtle  and 
incomprehensive  part  within  us,  who  only  can  search  and 
know  it.  For  the  soul  is  a  most  noble  and  excellent  thing, 
surpassing  all  the  other  gifts  of  Grod  under  heaven.  In- 
comprehensible itself,  it  comprehends  all  things,  and  ex- 
hibits its  divinity  by  its  marvellous  powers  embracing 
in  the  glance  of  a  moment  the  four  quarters  of  the 
globe.  Penetrating  with  wonderful  acuteness  as  well 
as  rapidity  into  all  that  the  world  contains,  its  structures, 
its  arts  and  sciences,  it  is  only  known  to  Him  who  is  un- 
known, seen  of  Him  who  is  unseen,  and  measured  by  Him 
who  is  infinite.  God  forbid,  therefore,  that  the  continual 
exercises  of  this  soul  should  be  hindered  by  vain  and  worldly 
cares,  so  that  they  fail  by  omission,  or  become  languid  from 
interruption.  For  what  is  the  body  to  the  soul,  but  a  bur- 
then and  a  punishment ;  a  prison  which  though  it  cannot 
enthral,  yet  fetters.  What  the  shell  is  to  the  kernel,  the 
same  is  the  flesh  to  the  spirit ;  each  of  them  encumbers 
what  it  invests. 

Wherefore,  right  noble  count  of  Poictiers,^  the  future 
duke  of  Normandy  and  king  of  England,  relying  on  its 
gifts  and  influences,  I  have  determined  to  compile  a  His- 
tory of  the  Conquest  of  Ireland,  and  the  subjugation  of  the 
fierce  and  barbarous  Irish  nation,  in  these  our  days,  and  to 
dedicate  my  work  to  your  highness ;  in  order  that  the  record 
of  the  glorious  achievements  performed  by  your  father  may 
augment  your  own  glory  ;  and  as  you  are  the  heir  to  your 
father's  territories,  so  you  may  be  his  successor  both  in  law- 
ful right  and  commendable  rivalry  of  his  triumphs  and  virtue, 
I  have  therefore  employed  myself  on  this  theme,  though  the 
scene  of  events  is  narrow,  barren,  rough,  and  unprofitable ; 
hoping,  perhaps,  to  grace  it  by  my  style,  and  making  it  a 
sort  of  exercise  for  my  unpractised  pen,  as  a  prelude  to 

^  Giraldus,  having  dedicated  his  Topography  to  Henry  II.,  takes  this 
opportunity  of  compHmenting  his  son  Richard,  who  at  that  time  held 
the  county  of  Poictiers,  his  mother's  inheritance,  by  addressing  thia 
History  to  him.  This  was  in  1187,  about  two  years  before  Henry's 
death.  Soon  after  king  John's  accession  to  the  throne,  Giraldus  pub- 
lished a  revised  edition  of  his  History,  which,  as  we  shall  preseutiy 
find,  he  dedicated  to  that  king. 


172  THE    CONQrEST    OF    lEELAJfD. 

another  work.  For  I  have  planned,  though  from  a  distance 
and  with  much  diffidence,  to  write  hereafter  a  history  of 
your  noble  achievements,  which,  great  in  their  first  begin- 
nings, have  already  shed  the  brightest  lustre  on  your  riper 
years,  and  of  the  future  increase,  of  which  it  shaU  be  more 
fully  and  adequately  related. 

THE  AUTHOE'S  PEEFACE 

TO    THE   SECOKD    AKD    EEVISED    EDITION    OF    HIS    HISTOEY, 
DEDICATED    TO    JOHN   KING   OF   ENGLAND. 

To  his  most  revered  lord,  and  beloved  i?i  Christ,  John,  the 
noble  and  illustrious  king  of  England,  lord  of  Ireland^ 
duke  of  Normandy  and  Aquitaine,  and  count  of  Anjou  : 
Giraldus  dedicates  his  work,  wishing  him  all  health  in  body 

'    and  soul,  and  the  prosperous  issue  of  all  his  worldly  affairs. 

It  pleased  your  excellent  and  noble  father,  king  Henry, 
some  time  ago,  when  I  was  in  attendance  on  himself,  to  send 
me  over  to  Ireland  in  your  company.  Having  noted  while 
I  was  there  sundry  notable  things  which  were  strange  and 
unknown  in  other  countries,  I  made  a  collection  of  mate- 
rials with  great  industry,  from  which,  on  my  return  to  Eng- 
land, after  three  years'  labour,  I  published  a  Topography  of 
Ireland,  describing  the  country  and  the  wonders  of  it ;  not 
forgetting  the  honour  your  father  had  gained  from  that 
land.  The  work  so  pleased  him — for,  a  rare  thing  in  our 
times,  he  was  a  prince  of  great  literary  attainments — that  at 
his  instance,  I  afterwards  renewed  or  rather  continued  my 
labours,  and  composed  the  present  work  on  the  recent  con- 
quest of  that  kingdom,  made  by  him  and  those  under  him. 
But,  as  worth  is  more  commended  than  rewarded,  I  received 
no  remuneration  for  either  of  these  books. 

But  since,  through  neglect  or  rather  your  many  occu- 
pations, the  recollection  of  that  land,  not  the  least  among 
the  islands  of  the  West,  which  you  visited  long  since,  seems 
to  have  faded  from  your  mind,  I  have  undertaken  to  re- 
fresh it,  by  dedicating  to  your  highness  a  corrected  and 
fuller  edition  of  my  work.  The  history  commences  from 
the  time  when  prince  Dermitius,  driven  into  exile  by  his  sub- 
jects, took   refuge   with    your   father  in   Normandy,   and 


1  THE  ArTHOR's  LAST  PREFACE.  173 

obtained  aid  from  him,  and  is  continued  until  your  first 
arrival  in  the  island,  when  I  attended  you ;  and  I  have 
honestly  related  all  that  was  done,  whether  for  good  or  evil, 
by  the  several  leaders  of  expeditions  and  nobles  who  went 
over  to  Ireland,  in  regular  order  from  the  first  to  the  last. 

Here  then,  as  in  a  bright  mirror,  and  far  more  clearly, 
and  certainly  by  the  light  of  historical  truth,  it  may  be  as- 
certained, seen,  and  reflected  to  whom  the  greatest  share  of 
glory  of  this  conquest  ought  justly  to  be  attributed ;  whe- 
ther to  the  men  of  the  diocese  of  St.  David's,  my  own  kins- 
men, who  were  the  first  adventurers,  or  to  those  of  Llandaff, 
men  truly  of  better  descent  than  enterprise,  for  they  went 
over  on  the  invitation  of  the  first  conquerors,  and  tempted 
by  the  example  of  their  success  to  embark  in  a  similar 
adventure' — or  lastly,  whether  it  be  due  to  the  third  expedi- 
tion, which  consisted  of  a  large  force,  amply  supplied  with 
arms,  provisions,  and  everything  necessary. 

Much  was  assuredly  done  by  him  who  made  the  beginning, 
much  by  him  who  went  over  with  additional  forces  and 
added  strength  to  the  first  enterprise  ;  but  far  more  by  him 
who  gave  his  whole  authority  to  the  two  former  expeditions, 
and  sanctioned  them  by  his  license,  and  at  last,  by  going 
over  himself,  reduced  the  whole  country  to  submission,  and 
resolutely  completed  the  whole  undertaking,  though  his  too 
hasty  return  from  the  island,  caused  by  the  unnatural  con- 
spiracy of  his  sons,  prevented  order  being  fully  settled  on  a 
firm  foundation. 

Do  not  undervalue  then,  noble  king,  what  cost  your  father 
and  yourself  so  much  toil,  and  do  not  part  with  so  much 
glory  and  honour  to  strangers  who  are  both  unworthy  and 
ungrateful ;  nor  for  the  sake  of  an  island  of  silver  hazard 
the  loss  of  one  of  gold ;  for  the  one  does  not  exclude  the 
other,  but  both  together  become  doubly  valuable.  The 
gold  of  Arabia  and  the  silver  of  Achaia  enrich  the  same 
treasury,  though  in  diff'erent  heaps.  Besides,  other  con- 
siderations may  induce  you  not  to  be  unmindful  of  your 

'  It  need  scarcely  be  remarked,  that  the  "  men  of  St  David's,"  Giral- 
ilus's  own  kinsmen,  were  the  Fitzgeralds,  Fitzstephens,  and  De  Barris, 
the  first  adventvirers  m  the  conquest  of  Ireland,  who  figure  so  conspi- 
cuously in  the  following  History.  The  men  of  Llandaff  were  Eichard, 
earl  Strongbow,  whose  castles  of  Strigul  and  Chepstow  stood  in  that 
diocese,  and  his  followers. 


174  THE  CONQUEST  OE  IRELAND. 

dominion  of  Ireland.  It  has  pleased  Grod  and  your  good 
fortune  to  send  you  several  sons,  both  natural  and  legiti- 
mate, and  you  may  have  more  hereafter.  Two  of  these  you 
may  raise  to  the  thrones  of  two  kingdoms,  and  under  them 
you  amply  provide  for  numbers  of  your  followers  by  new 
grants  of  lands,  especially  in  Ireland,  a  country  which  is 
still  in  a  wild  and  unsettled  state,  a  very  small  part  of  it 
being  yet  occupied  and  inhabited  by  our  people. 

But  if  neither  the  desire  of  augmenting  your  own  glory, 
nor  of  royally  endowing  and  elevating  one  of  your  sons,  will 
induce  you  to  extend  your  fostering  care  to  your  dominions 
of  Ireland,  you  ought  at  least  to  protect  and  reinstate  in 
their  rights  those  veteran  warriors  who  have  served  your 
father  and  yourself  with  so  much  devoted  fidelity,  by  whose 
enterprise  that  land  was  first  taken  possession  of,  and  by 
whose  valour  it  is  stiD  retained,  but  who  are  constantly 
Supplanted  by  new-comers,  reaping  the  fruits  of  other  men's 
labours,  and  advanced  more  by  their  good  luck  than  by  their 
valour.  It  should  be  your  care  to  abate  the  pride  and 
humble  the  insolence  of  such  men  as  these ;  for,  if  report 
speaks  true,  their  folly  is  risen  to  such  a  pitch  of  arrogance 
and  presumption,  that  they  even  aspire  to  usurp  in  their  own 
persons  all  the  rights  of  dominion  belonging  to  the  princes 
of  that  kingdom. 

Wherefore  you  should  take  the  greatest  care  that  when 
you  have  any  designs  of  extending  your  conquests  in  the  in- 
terior of  the  country,  you  should  keep  a  close  watch  on  what 
is  passing  in  the  Eastern  districts,  and  use  your  utmost 
eff'orts  to  recover,  by  God's  grace,  what  has  been  unjustly 
alienated  there ;  for  you  have  nothing  to  fear  in  the  West 
if  you  leave  no  danger  in  your  rear.  It  would  doubtless  be 
a  sign  not  only  of  great  negligence,  but  of  idle  folly,  and  a 
great  reproach,  were  you  to  harbour  in  your  own  towns  and 
castles,  and  on  your  own  lands,  which  although  they  may 
be  in  the  West,  would  lie  close  on  your  rear,  domestic  ene- 
mies, who  are  for  ever  plotting  treason,  and  only  wait  for 
time  and  opportunity  to  break  into  open  revolt.  It  would 
be  like  wrapping  snakes  in  the  folds  of  your  robe,  or  nou- 
rishing fire  in  your  bosom  which  was  ready  to  burst  into 
flame.  It  is  unsafe  for  princes  to  foster  any  hydra-heads 
in  their  dominions.    It  is  especially  unsafe  for  island  princes 


THE  ^tthoe's  last  peepace.  175 

to  have  in  their  territories  any  other  frontier  marches  than 
the  sea  itself. 

Moreover,  if  for  these  reasons,  or  any  of  them,  you  should 
be  induced  to  pity  and  relieve  your  land  so  often  mentioned, 
which  is  now  desolate  and  in  a  manner  deserted,  and  to  re- 
duce it  to  a  state  of  order,  not  unprofitable  to  you  and 
yours,  permit  me  to  ofter  your  royal  majesty  some  advice, 
though  it  may  savour  of  the  freedom  of  speech  which  is 
natural  to  Welshmen  like  myself,  and  which  we  can  neither 
alter  or  get  rid  of  I  refer  to  the  two  pledges  which  your 
father  gave  to  pope  Adrian,  when  he  obtained  his  permission 
to  invade  and  conquer  Ireland,  and  acted  most  prudently 
and  discreetly  for  his  own  interest,  and  those  of  his  family 
and  people,  when  he  secured  the  sanction  of  the  highest 
earthly  authority  to  an  enterprise  of  so  much  magnitude, 
and  which  involved  the  shedding  of  Christian  blood.  One 
was,  that  he  would  raise  up  the  church  of  God  in  that 
country,  and  cause  a  penny  to  be  paid  to  St.  Peter  for  every 
house  in  Ireland,  as  it  is  done  in  England  ;  according  to 
the  tenor  of  the  bull  of  privilege  granted  by  the  said  Pope, 
and  obtained  from  him  by  your  father's  prudence  and  policy, 
and  now  laid  up  in  the  archives  at  Winchester,  as  is  here- 
after clearly  set  forth  in  the  present  History.  But 
Solomon  says  in  the  Proverbs,  "  Nothing  less  becomes  a 
prince  than  lying  lips ;'"  and  it  is  especially  dangerous  to  lie 
to  Grod,  and  for  a  creature  to  take  upon  himself  to  set  at 
nought  his  Creator.  In  order,  therefore,  to  deliver  the  soul 
of  your  father  who  made  these  promises,  and  your  own  soul 
and  those  of  your  children,  it  is  highly  fitting  that  you, 
having  no  other  shield  of  defence  against  the  anger  of*  the 
righteous  judge  for  so  much  Christian  blood  already  shed, 
and  perhaps  still  to  be  shed,  should  be  very  careful  to  fulfil 
your  father's  vows.  And  if  by  so  doing  God  be  honoured 
in  this  conquest,  as  is  becoming  and  right,  you  may  expect 
that  the  earthly  prosperity  of  you  and  yours  will  be  aug- 
mented, and  above  all,  that  eternal  happiness  will  be  your 
portion  at  last. 

These  promises  not  having  hitherto  been  performed,  the 
divine  justice  has  therefore,  we  may  well  believe,  suffered 
calamities  of  two  kinds  to  happen  by  way  of  punishment 
*  Prov.  xvii.  7. 


176  THE  CONQUEST  OF  IRELAND. 

The  one  is  that  the  completion  of  this  conquest,  and  the 
profit  to  be  drawn  from  it,  have  been  deferred ;  the  other  that 
the  first  and  principal  invaders  of  Ireland,  namely,  Robert 
Fitzstephen,^  who  was  the  first  of  our  countrymen  who 
landed  there,  and  as  it  were  opened  and  shewed  the  way  to 
others,  as  also  Hervey  de  Mont-Maurise,  Eaymonde,  John 
de  Courcy,  and  Meyler,  never  had  any  lawful  issue  of  their 
bodies  begotten.  Nor  is  it  any  marvel.  The  poor  clergy 
in  the  island  are  reduced  to  beggary.  The  cathedral  churches, 
which  were  richly  endowed  with  broad  lands,  by  the  piety 
of  the  faithful  in  old  times,  now  echo  with  lamentations  for 
the  loss  of  their  possessions,  of  which  they  have  been  robbed 
by  these  men  and  others  who  came  over  with  them,  or  after 
them  ;  so  that  to  uphold  the  church  is  turned  into  spoiling 
and  robbing  it. 

It  is  the  part  of  a  good  prince  to  redress  these  evils ;  for 
it  concerns  his  honour,  to  say  nothing  of  his  duty  to  Grod, 
that  the  clergy  throughout  his  dominions,  whose  place  it  is 
to  assist  him  faithfully  in  his  counsels,  and  in  all  the  more 
weighty  affairs  and  principal  acts  of  his  government,  should 
be  relieved  of  their  grievances,  and  enjoy  the  honours  and 
privileges  which  are  their  due.  Moreover,  in  order  that 
Bome  acknowledgment  and  propitiation  may  be  made  to 
G-od  for  this  bloody  conquest  and  the  profits  of  it,  the  pro- 
mised tax  of  the  Peter-pence  should  be  paid  in  future.  It 
is  but  small,  and  this  moderate  payment  frees  all,  while  it  la 
not  a  burthen  to  any. 

I  would  further  add,  with  your  permission,  that  in  memory 
of  this  conquest  of  Ireland  made  by  the  English,  and  be- 
cause, in  the  course  of  years,  there  are  great  changes  in  the 
succession  of  lords,  so  that  in  process  of  time  the  right  of 
inheritance  often  devolves  on  heirs  by  descent  in  remote 
degrees,  and  even  on  utter  strangers  in  blood,  a  fixed  annual 
tribute  in  gold  or  birds,^  or  perhaps  in  timber,  should  be 
reserved  by  some  written  instrument,  in  order  to  show  to  all 

*  Giraldus  mentions  in  his  History,  on  several  occasions,  a  son  of 
Eobert  Fitz-Stephen's,  named  Ralph  ;  but  perhaps  he  was  illegitimate. 

2  By  the  birds  may  be  intended  some  of  the  nobler  breeds  of  hawks 
for  sporting.  We  shall  find,  in  the  course  of  thp  History,  that  the  tri- 
bute of  Roderic  O'Connor,  king  of  Connaught  was  reserved  to  b« 
paid  in  skins. 


THE  authoe's  last  peeface.  177 

future  times  that  the  realm  of  Ireland  is  subject  to  the 
crown  of  England  by  an  indissoluble  bond. 

Considering  also  that  annals  of  events,  heard  through  an 
interpreter,  are  not  so  well  understood,  and  do  not  fix  them- 
selves in  the  mind  so  firmly  as  when  they  are  published  in 
the  vernacular  tongue,   it  would  be  well,  if  such  be  your 
pleasure,  that  some  man  of  learning,  who  is  also  skilled   in 
the  Frencli  language,  be  employed  to  translate  the  work  of 
mine,  which  has  cost  me  much  labour,  into  French  ;'  and 
then,  as  it  would  be  better  understood,  I  might  reap  the 
fruits  of  my  toil,  which  hitherto,  under  illiterate  princes, 
have  been  lost  because  there  were  few  who  could  under- 
stand my  works.     Hence  a  man  of  great  eloquence,  AValter 
Mapes,  archdeacon  of  Oxford,-  has  often  said  to  me  in  con- 
versation, with  his  usual  facetiousness,  and  that  urbanity 
for  which  he  was  remarkable  :  "  You  have  written  a  great 
deal,  Master  G-iraldus,  and  you  will  write  much  more ;  and 
I  have  discoursed  much :  you  have  employed  writing  ;  I 
speech.    But  though  your  writings  are  far  better,  and  much 
more  likely  to  be  handed  doA\Ti  to  future  ages  than  my  dis- 
courses, yet,  as  all  the  world  could  understand  what  I  said, 
speaking  as  I  did  in  the  vulgar  tongue,  while  your  works, 
being  written  in  Latin,  are  understood  by  only  a  very  few 
persons,  I  have  reaped  some  advantage  from  my  sermons  ; 
but  you,  addressing  yourself  to  princes,  who  were,  doubt- 
less, both* learned  and  liberal,  but  are  now  out  of  date,  and 
have  passed  from  the  world,  have  not   been  able  to  secure 
any  sort  of  reward  for  your  excellent  works,  which  so  richly 

^  French  or  Norman  was  the  language  commonly  used  by  the  higher 
classes  in  England  at  this  period  ;  Latin,  in  which  all  the  chroniclea 
were  composed,  being  confined  to  the  ecclesiastics,  the  only  men  of 
learning ;  and  the  good  old  Anglo-Saxon  tongue,  in  which  the  first  of 
chi-onicles  is  written,  being  out  of  vogue,  the  language  only  of  the  vul- 
gar, who  could  not  read,  or  for  whose  instruction  Giraldus,  with  all 
his  love  of  popularity,  felt  no  concern.  It  need  not  be  added  that, 
as  far  as  we  know,  Gh-aldus  did  not  succeed  in  his  petition  to  have  hia 
History  t^'anslated. 

2  Walter  Mapes,  a  name  celebrated  in  our  literary  history  of  the 
latter  half  of  the  twelfth  century,  was  the  intimate  friend  of  G-iraldus 
Cambrensis.  He  possessed  much  pungent  humour,  which  he  employed 
in  inveighing  bitterly  against  the  profligaoy  of  the  monks. 


178  THE  CONQUEST  OP  IRELAND. 

merited  it."  It  is  true,  indeed,  that  my  be4  years,  and  the 
prime  of  my  life,  liave  been  spent  without  any  remunera- 
tion or  advancement  arising  out  of  my  literary  labours,  and 
I  am  now  growing  old,  and  standing,  as  it  were,  on  the 
threshold  of  death ;  but  I  neither  ask,  nor  expect,  worldly 
recompense  from  any  one.  My  only  desire  is,  and  it  is  all 
I  ought  to  desire,  that,  first,  and  above  all,  I  may  partake 
of  the  divine  mercy  vouchsafed  to  me  by  Him  who  giveth 
all  things  freely,  through  good  works  ;  his  grace  co-operat- 
ing, nay,  being  the  sole  efficient  cause ;  and  next,  that 
through  my  poor  literary  works  I  may  obtain  favour  with 
the  world,  if  ever  the  pursuits  of  learning  should  again  be 
held  in  esteem,  and  recover  their  former  eminence  ;  although 
my  reward  may  be  deferred  till  further  times,  when  poste- 
rity is  sure  to  award  honour  to  every  man,  according  to  hi» 
just  deserts. 


CONTENTS    OF  THE    CHAPTEES.  179 


CONTENTS  CF  THE   CHAPTEES. 


BOO^  I. 


CHAPTER  PAGl 

I.  How  Dermitivis,  prince  of  Leinster,  took  refuge  in  Eng- 
land, and  was  restored  to  his  dominions  by  Heniy 
II.,  king  of  England  .  .  .  .184 

II.  How  Dermitius  returned  through  Great  Britain ;  and  of 
his  stay  in  Bristol,  and  afterwards  in  some  part»  of 
Wales.  .  .  .  .  .  .186 

III.  Of  the  landing  of  Fitz-Stephen  in  Ireland,  and  the 

taking  of  the  town  of  Wexford         .  .  189 

IV.  The  conquest  of  Ossory  .  .  .  193 
V.  The  whole  of  Ireland  in  league  against  Dermitius  and 

Fitz-Stephen  .  .  .  .  .  .195 

VI.  The  description  of  Dermitius,  son  of  Murchard  .  196 

VII.  The  speech  of  Roderic  .  .  •  .  .197 

VIII.  The  speech  of  Dermitius  .  .  .  .199 
IX.  The  speech  of  Robert  Fitz-Stephen      .             .  .200 

X.  How  peace  was  restored  ....  201 

XI.  The  coming  over  of  Maurice  Fitzgerald,  and  the  con- 
quest of  Dublin         .....  202 
XII.  Of  the  preparations  of  Richard,  earl  of  Strigul  .  204 

XIII.  Of  the  coming  over  of  Raymond,   and  defeat  of  the 

men  of  Waterford  at  Dundunolf       .  .  .  206 

XTV.  The  speech  of  Raymond  ....  208 

XV.  The  speech  of  Hervey  ,  .  .  .209 

XVI.  The  coming  over  of  earl  Richard,  and  his  taking  the 

city  of  Waterford,  and  marrying  Dermot's  daughter  211 
XVII.  How  the  city  of  Dublin  was  besieged  and  taken  .  213 

XYIII.  Of  the  synod  of  Armagh  .  .  .  .215 

XIX.  How  the  king  of  England  issued  a  proclamation 
against  the  earl,  and  Ravmond  was  sent  over  to  the 
king    .  .  .    "         .  .  .  .216 

XX.  How  Thomas,  the   illustrious  archbishop  of  Canter* 

bury,  was  martyred  in  England  about  this  time        .  217 
XXI.  Of  the  defeat  of  the  Norwegians  and  Islanders  at  Dub- 
lin, under  theii'  chiefs,  Hasculf  and  John  the  Mad    .  219 


l^C)  THE  CONQUEST  OF  IRELAND. 

CH  >  PTER  ,^Qj 

XXII.  How  Dublin  was  besieged  by  Koderic,  king  of  Con- 
naught,  and  the  Islanders      ....  221 

XXIII.  The  speech  of  Maurice  Fitzgerald         .  .  222 

XXI 7.  The  defeat  of  Roderic  at  DubHn  .  .  .'  223 

XXV.  How  Fitz-Steplien  was  treacherously  made  prisoner  by 

the  men  of  Wexford  .       '      .  .  .  224 

XXVI.  The  character  of  Fitz-Stephen  .  .  .  ,  225 

XXVII.  The  description  and  character  of  earl  Strongbow         .  226 
XXVIII.  How  the  earl  met  the  king  of  England  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Grloucester,  and  peace  was  restored  be- 
tween them     ......  227 

XXIX.  How,   meanwhile,  O'Roric,  king  of   Meath,  was  de- 
feated at  Dublin.    King  Henry  at  Pembroke  .  227 
XXX.  Of  the  coming  of  Henry  II.,  king  of  England,  to  Ire- 
land               .             .             .             .             .             .229 

XXXI.  How  Fitz-Stephen  was  brought  a  prisoner  to  the  king 
at  Waterford,  and  soon  afterwards  released  ;  and  how 
Dermitius,  prince  of  Cork,  and  Duvenald,  prince  of 
Limerick,  and  all  the  princes  of  the  south  of  Ireland, 
submitted  to  the  king  ....  229 

XXXII.  How  all  the  princes  of  the  north  of  Ireland,  and  Ro- 
deric, king  of  Connaught,  made  voluntary  submis- 
sion to  tlie  king  at  Dublin      ....  230 

XXXIII.  Of  the  synod  summoned  by  the  king  at  Cashel,  and 

held  with  great  pomp  ....  232 

XXXIV.  Of  the  royal  constitutions  promulgated  at  the  synod  .  232 
XXXV.  Of  the  tempestuous  and  stormy  winter  .  .  234 

XXXVI.  How  the  king  was  recalled  by  an  intestine  conspiracy. 

Legates  arrive  from  the  court  of  Rome  .  .  236 

XXXVII.  How  the  king  crossed  over  to  Wales,  and  from  Wales 

to  England.     The  Lechlawar,  or  speaking-stone        .  237 

XXXVIII.  How  the  king  made  terms   of  peace  with  the  pope's 

legates  at  Coutances,  and  with  Lewis,  king  of  France, 
on  the  frontier-marches  of  his  dominions,  with  his 
usual  prudence  .....  239 

XXXIX.  Of   the    vision,  or    rather    visitation,   made    to  king 

Henry  at  Cardiff,  and  the  revelation  he  received         .  240 
XL.  How  O'Roric,  king  of  Meath,  was  betrayed,  and  slain 

by  the  troops  from  Dublin    ....  242 
XLL  Of  visions  and  their  various  fulfilments  .  .  244 

XLII.  The  character  of  Maurice  Fitzgerald     .  .  .  246 

XLIII.  How  the  king's  sons,  having  openly  rebelled  against 
him,  the  garrison  he  had  left  in  Ireland  was  recalled, 
and  he  committed  the  government  then  to  earl 
Richard  ....  .247 

XLTV.  Of  the  events  of  the  two  years'  war,  and  how  the  king 
was  everywhere  victorious  over  his  sons  ;  and  of  his 
great  and  commendable  clemency  to  the  vanquished  248 
XLV.  The  character  of  Henry  IL,  king  of  England  249 


CONTENTS    OF   THE    CHAPTERS.  181 


BOOK  II. 


PhQM 

I.  How  the  earl  was  sent  back  to  Ireland  by  the  king,  and 

Rnymond  was  again  made  commander  of  tlie  army  .  255 
II.  How  the  territory  of  Ophelan  was  laid  waste  and  Lis- 
more  plundered,  and  the  naval  fight  in  the  port  of 
Limerick  ......  255 

III.  How  Raymond  having  returned  into  Wales,  his  troops 
under  Hervey  were  again  defeated  and  slain  by  the 
men  of  Dublin  in  Ossory  ;  and  how  the  earl  was  shut 
up  in  Waterford  .  .  .  ...  256 

IV.   Of  the  return  of  Raymond  on  the  earl's  summons,  and 
his  marriage  to  the  earl's   sister,  Basilia  ;   and  how 
Roderic,  king  of  Connaught,   was   driven  from  the 
territory  of  Dublin,  which  he  had  invaded     .  .  257 

"V.  Of  tlie  connexion  of  families   by  intermarriages;  and 
how  Maurice,  as  well  as  Meyler,  obtained  grants  of 
land  in  Ireland  .  .  ...  .  259 

TI.   Of  the  privileges  obtained  in  the  meantime  by  the  king 
of   England  from   the   pope,   and  published   at   the 
synod  of  Waterford  .  .  .  .  260 

"VII.  Of  the  five  titles,  two  old  and  three  new,  by  which  the 

kings  of  Britain  laid  claim  to  Ireland  .  .  262 

VIII.   Of  the  famous  siege  of  Limerick  .  .  .  263 

IX.  The  character  of  Raymond         ....  265 

X.  The  character  of  Meyler,  and  praise  of  his  family  ,       .  266 
XI.  The    character    of    Hervey,    and    his   accusation    of 

Raymond        ......  268 

XTI.  How  succour  was  nobly  rendered  to  the  garrison  of 

Limerick  by  Raymond  and  Meyler   .  .  .  269 

XIII.  The  speech  of  Duvenald,  prince  of  Ossory       .  .  270 

XIV.  How  tidings  of  earl  Strongbow's  death  were  in  the 

meantime  conveyed  to  Raymond ;   and   how  in  con- 
sequence he  evacuated  Limerick,  and  drew  ofi"  the  gar- 
rison to  Dublin  .  .  .  .  .271 
XV.  How  William  Fitz-Aldelra  was  made  chief  governor  of 
Ireland,  after  the  earl's  death  ;  and  how  he  inces- 
santly troubled  Raymond   and  Meyler.  the  sons  of 
Maurice,  and  all  his  race       ....  273 
XVI.  The  character  of  Fitz-Aldelm  ;  and  how  John  De  Courcy 
(without    the  authority    of  his    superior)    was    the 
first    who   invaded   Ulster,  and  after  many  battles 
manfully  subdued  it               ....  276 
XVII.  The  character  of  John  De  Courcy ;  and  how  Vivianus, 
a  legate  of  the  see  of  Rome,  held  a  synod  at  Dublin, 
in  which  the  king  of  England's  right  to  Ireland  was 


182  THE    CO^s-QFEST    OF    IEBL^J!?'D. 

CHAPTER  PAO» 

publicly  declared,  and   liberty  waa  given  of  taking 
provisions  from  churches  on  payment  of  the  value  .  281 
XVin.  The  recall  of  Fitz-Aldelm  and  the  appointment  of  Hugh 
De  Lacy  as  his  successor  ;  also  the  confederacy  and 
establishment  of  Fitz-Stephen,  Milo  de  Cogan,  and 
Philip    De  Braose,  in  the  territories  of  Cork  and 
Limerick,  and  various  occurrences  in  those  parts       .  283 
XIX.  How  Hugh  De  Lacy  reduced  to  order  the  kingdom  of 
Ireland,  and  built  castles  ;  and  how  he  fell  into  sus- 
picion for  having  the  Irish  in  too  much  favour  .  288 
XX.  The  character  of  Hugh  De  Lacy,  and  an  eulogium  on 

some  young  men  of  eminence  .  .  .  289 

XXI.  How  John,  constable  of  Chester,  and  Richard  De  Pec 
were  sent   over;  and  several  castles   were  built  in 
Leinster  after  Hugh  De  Lacy  was  recalled     .  .  290 

XXII.  How  Hugh  De  Lacy  was  again  eent  over  as  governor  .  291 
XXIII.  How  Laurence,  archbishop  of  Dublin,  dies  at  Chateau 
D'Eu,  and  how  Jolin    Corny u    was  appointed    his 
successor        ......  292 

XXIV.  How  John,  archbishop  of  Dubhn,  was  sent  to  Ireland 
by  the  king,  to  prepare  the  way  for  his  son  (Jolm) ; 
and  how  Philip  of  Worcester  came  over  as  constable  294 
XXV.  How  Heraclius,  patriarch  of   Jex'usalem,  came  by  sea 
from  the  East  into  the  West,  and  crossed  over  to 
England  to  entreat  succour  from  Henry  II.,  king  of 
England,  for  the  Holy  Land  ....  295 

XXVI.  The  king's  reply  to  the  patriarch,  who  threatens  him 
in   a  sort  of  prophetical  spirit  j  and  of  the  princes 
who  joined  the  crusade  ....  296 

XXVII.  Of  the  quarrel  which  broke  out  suddenly  between  the 

kings 3(10 

XXVIII.  Of  the  emperor  Frederick  .  .  .  .301 

XXIX.  A  vision  seen  by  the  author  of  this  book,  and  the 

explanation  of  it        .  .  .  •  .  301 

XXX.  Of  the  memorable  events  in  England  during  our  time  304 
XXXI.  The  first  expedition  of  John,  the  kmg's  son,  to  Ireland  309 
XXXII.  The  praises  of  Fitz-Stephen  and  earl  Strongbow,  and 

also  their  defence       .....  311 

XXXIII.  Of  the  delays  and  hindrances   which  prevented  the 

completion  of  the  conquest  of  Ireland  .  .311 

XXXIV.  A  brief  recapitulation  of  transactions  in  Ireland,  when 

the  dominion  of  the  kingdom  was  vested  in  John     .  313 

XXXV.  For  what  reasons  the  king's  son  did  not  fully  succeed 

in  his  first  enterprise.     How  three  sorts  of  people 

served  in  Ireland        .....  315 

XXXVI.  How  the  Irish  nation  may  be  entirely  subjugated         .  320 

XXXVII.  How  the  Irish  people  ought  to  be  goverced      .  323 


PEDIGREE    OF    THE    DESCEN'DAjS'TS    OF    NESTA.. 


183 


pMarduke,  died  young. 


Jt5 

si's! 


»«S  so  QD 


-  > 


JH 


o  o 

Ih 

^  ^   . 


•-Ealph  Fitz-Stephen,  m. 
the  dau.  of  Milo  de 
Cogan. 


-^^ — ^ 


pEichard  de  Cogan. 


i-Milo  de  Cogan. 


Mi' 


05  .-tS 
2^ 


Ih- 


-Sylvester      Giraldus 


Cambrensis, 
author) 

Philip  de  Barri. 

•-Robert  de  Barri. 


(the 


J    «  ^  § 


■a     ^ 

■^     03  CO 
S    6»0O 


'^3 

■If 


—Walter  de  Barri,*  killed 
in  Wales. 

pNesta,  married  Hervey 
de  Montmaurice. 

Alexander  Fitzgerald. 

Gerald  Fitzgerald. 

William      Fitzgerald, 
married   Alina,    dau. 
of  earl  Strongbow, 


.C   CO 

P.3 

v  o 


r (daughter.)  —^  ^  e3  t.^ 

I  •>  ^  a 

l-Griffyth.  ^^'^ 


o  « 


L;=) 


■I 


^S 


Eaymond  le  Gros,  mar- 
ried Basilia,  dau.  of 
earl  Strongbow. 


©^ 


-   o3  73    «  <U  t. 

w 


"-Odo,*  ancestor   of   the 
Carews  of  Wales. 

r-Meyler  Fitzhenry,  mar- 
I  ried  the  niece  of 
I      Hugh  de  Lacy. 

|-Robert  Fitzhenry. 

i-Henry  Fitzhenry, 


SI 


THE  HISTOET 

OP 

THE  CONQTJEST  OF  lEELAND. 


EOOK  I. 

CHAPTEE  I. 

HOW  DERMITIUS,  PRINCE  OF  LEINSTEB,  TOOK  EEFUGE  IN 
ENGLAND,  AND  WAS  HESTORED  TO  HIS  DOMINIONS  BY  THE 
KING    OF    ENGLAND. 

DEiiMiTirs,the  son  of  Murchard,^  and  prince  of  Leinster,whG 
ruled  over  that  fifth  part  of  Ireland,  possessed  in  our  times 
the  maritime  districts  in  the  east  of  the  island,  separated 
only  from  Great  Britain  by  the  sea  which  flowed  between. 
His  youth  and  inexperience  in  government  led  him  to  be- 
come the  oppressor  of  the  nobility,  and  to  impose  a  cruel 
and  intolerable  tyrauny  on  the  chiefs  of  the  land.  Thia 
brought  him  into  trouble,  and  it  was  not  the  only  one  ;  for 
O'Roric,^  prince  of  Meath,  having  gone  on  an  expedition 
into  a  distant  quarter,  left  his  wife,  the  daughter  of  Omach- 
lacherlin,^  in  a  certain  island  of  Meath  during  his  absence ;  and 
she,  who  had  long  entertained  a  passion  for  Dermitius,  took 
advantage  of  the  absence  of  her  husband,  and  allowed  her- 
self to  be  ravished,  not  against  her  will.  As  the  nature 
of  women  is  fickle  and  given  to  change,  she  thus  became 
the  prey  of  the  spoiler  by  her  own  contrivance.  For  as 
Mark  Anthony  and  Troy  are  witnesses,  almost  all  the 
greatest  evils  in  the  world  have  arisen  from  women.  King 
O'Eoric  being  moved  by  this  to  great  wrath,  but  more  for 
the  shame  than  the  loss  he  sufi'ered,  was  fully  bent  on  re- 

^  Dermot  mac  Murchard,  or,  more  correctly,  Mac  Murrough,  prince 
or  king  of  Leinster.  2  Called  in  Irish,  Tieruan  O'Kuarc. 

'  Murtough  O'Melaghlin,  king  of  Meath.  The  name  of  his  daughter, 
the  heroine  of  this  story,  was  Dervorgilla. 


DEEMITIUS  TAKES  EEFUGE  IN  ENGLAND.     185 

venge,  and  forthwith  gathered  the  whole  force  of  his  own 
people  and  the  neighbouring  tribes,  calling  besides  to 
his  aid  Eoderic,  prince  of  Connaught,  then  monarch  of  all 
Ireland.  The  people  of  Leinster,  considering  in  what  a 
strait  their  prince  was,  and  seeing  him  beset  on  every  side 
by  bands  of  enemies,  began  to  call  to  mind  their  own  long- 
smothered  grievauces,  and  their  chiefs  leagued  themselves 
with  the  foes  of  Mac  Murchard,  aud  deserted  him  in  his 
desperate  fortunes. 

Dermitius,  seeing  himself  thus  forsaken  and  left  destitute, 
fortune  frowning  upon  him,  and  his  affairs  being  now  des- 
perate, after  many  fierce  conflicts  with  the  enemy,  in  which 
he  was  always  worsted,  at  length  resolved,  as  his  last  refuge, 
to  take  ship  and  flee  beyond  sea.  It  is  therefore  apparent 
from  many  occurrences,  that  it  is  safer  to  govern  willing 
subjects  than  those  who  are  disobedient.  Nero  learnt  this, 
and  Domitian  also,  while  in  our  times,  Henry,  duke  of  Sax- 
ony and  Bavaria,^  was  made  sensible  of  it.  It  is  better  for 
a  prince  to  be  loved  than  to  be  feared  ;  but  it  is  expedient 
that  he  should  be  feared  also,  so  that  the  fear  proceeds 
rather  from  good-will  than  from  coercion.  For  whatever  is 
outwardly  loved,  it  necessarily  follows  that  the  same  must  be 
also  feared.  "Wherefore  fear  must  be  so  tempered  with  love, 
that  neither  a  lax  freedom  degenerate  into  coldness,  nor  ter- 
ror extorted  by  a  rash  insolence  be  turned  into  tyranny. 
Love  lengthened  the  reign  of  Augustus,  but  fear  cut  short 
the  life  and  rule  of  the  emperor  Julius. 

Meanwhile,  Mac  Murchard,  submitting  to  his  change  of 
fortune,  and  confidently  hoping  for  some  favourable  turn, 
crossed  the  sea  with  a  favourable  wind,  and  came  to  Henry 
II.,  king  of  England,  for  the  purpose  of  earnestly  imploring 
his  succour.  Although  the  king  was  at  that  time  beyond 
sea,  far  away  in  Aquitaine,  in  Trance,  and  much  engaged 
in  business,  he  received  Murchard  with  great  kindness, 
and  the  liberality  and  courtesy  which  was  natural  to  him  ; 
and  having  heard  the  causes  of  his  exile  and  coming 
over,  and  received  his  bond  of  allegiance  and  oath  of  fealty, 

f  ranted  him  letters  patent  to  the  effect  following :  "  Henry, 
ing  of  England,  duke  of  Normandy  and  Aquitaine,  and 

'  Henry  the  Lion,  duke  of  Bavaria  and  Saxony,  who  reigned  froia 
1180  to  1195,  and  was  deposed  for  his  turbulence  and  violence- 


186  THE   CONQUEST    OF   IEELA2fD. 

count  of  Anjou,  to  all  his  liegemen,  English,  Normans,  Welsh, 
and  Scots,  and  to  all  other  nations  subject  to  his  dominion, 
Sendeth,  greeting,  AVhensoever  these  our  letters  shall  come 
unto  you,  know  ye  that  we  have  received  Dermitius,  prince  of 
Leinster,  into  our  grace  and  favour, — Wherefore,  whosoever 
within  the  bounds  of  our  territories  shall  be  willing  to  give 
him  aid,  as  our  vassal  and  liegeman,  in  recovering  his 
territories,  let  him  be  assured  of  our  favour  and  licence 
on  that  behalf." 

CHAPTER  II. 

THE    EETTJEN    OP    DEEMTTTUS    THROUGH    GREA.T    BRITAIN. 

Dermitius,  returning  through  Great  Britain,  loaded  with 
honourable  gifts  by  the  royal  munificence,  but  encouraged 
more  by  hope  for  the  future  than  any  aid  he  had  yet  ob- 
tained, reached  at  last  the  noble  town  of  Bristol.  Here 
he  sojourned  for  some  time,  making  a  liberal  expenditure, 
as  on  account  of  the  ships  which  made  frequent  voyages 
from  Ireland  to  that  port,  he  had  opportunities  of  hearing 
the  state  of  affairs  in  his  own  country  and  among  his  people. 
During  his  stay  he  caused  the  royal  letters  patent  to  be 
read  several  times  in  public,  and  made  liberal  offers  of  pay 
and  lands  to  many  persons,  but  in  vain.  At  length,  however, 
Eichard,  surnamed  Strongbow,^  earl  of  Strigul,  the  son  of 
earl  Grilbert,  came  and  had  a  conference  with  him  ;  and 
after  a  prolonged  treaty  it  was  agreed  between  them  that  in 

^  Eichard  Sti'ongbow  was  the  representative  of  the  great  family  of 
Clare,  whose  ancestors,  descended  from  Godfrey,  a  natural  son  oi 
Richard  I.,  duke  of  Normandy,  were  counts  of  Brionne,  which  fief  was 
exchanged  for  the  castle  of  Tunbridge,  in  England.  Grilbert  de  Clare, 
earl  of  Strigul,  Strongbow's  father,  made  extensive  conquests  in  South 
Wales,  with  licence  from  Henry  I.,  and  was  created  earl  of  Pembroke 
in  the  third  year  of  Stephen,  1138.  Richard  Strongbow,  his  son  and 
heir,  succeeded  to  his  father's  titles,  but  was  stripped  of  his  inheritance 
by  Henry  II.,  who,  as  some  compensation,  reluctantly  permitted  him 
to  improve  his  fortunes  in  Ireland.  Striguil,  or  Strigul,  has  been  con- 
sidered synonimous  with  Chepstow,  but  it  was  a  small  castle,  built  by 
earl  Gilbert,  and  stood  on  the  brow  of  the  forest  of  Wentwood,  about 
four  miles  from  Chepstow,  commanding  a  pass  in  the  road  over  the 
hills  from  Abergavenny  to  Chepstow,  which  was  still  used  by  public 
vehicles  in  our  younger  days.  Some  ruins  of  it  are  still  to  be  seen.  It 
is  probable,  however,  that  both  castles  bore  the  name  of  Strigulift, 
being  the  common  property  of  th?  Clares. 


EETITE.'N'    OF   DEEMITITTS.  187 

the  ensuing  spring  the  earl  should  lend  him  aid  in  reco\'er- 
ing  his  territories,  Dermitius  solemnly  promising  to  give  him 
his  eldest  daughter  for  wife,  with  the  succession  to  his  king- 
dom. This  treaty  having  been  duly  concluded,  Dermitius,  in- 
flamed with  the  natural  desire,  which  is  so  universal,  of 
seeing  his  native  land,  lost  no  time  in  journeying  to  St. 
David's,  in  South  "Wales.  The  passage  from  hence  to  Lein- 
ster,  by  sea,  may  be  accomplished  in  one  day's  sailing,  and 
the  distance  is  so  short  that  one  coast  may  be  seen  from  the 
other.  At  that  time,  E-hys-ap-G-ryifith  was  prince  of  that 
country,  under  fealty  to  the  king,  and  David  the  second 
was  bishop  of  St.  David's  ;  both  of  whom  treated  the  unfor- 
tunate exile  with  great  kindness. 

Thus  snuffing  from  the  Welsh  coast  the  air  of  Ireland 
wafted  on  the  western  breezes,  and,  as  it  were,  inhaling  the 
scent  of  his  beloved  country,^  Dermitius  had  the  no  small 
consolation  of  sometimes  feasting  his  eyes  with  the  sight  of 
his  own  land,  though  the  distance  was  such  that  it  was  diffi- 
cult to  distinguish  between  mountains  and  clouds.  At  that 
time  Eobert  Fitz-Stephen,  who  had  been  made  prisoner 
through  the  treachery  of  his  followers  at  Aberteivy,  the 
chief  place  in  the  district  of  Cardigan,  of  which  he  was 
castellan,^  and  delivered  up  to  Ehys,  having  been  kept  in 
close  confinement  for  three  years,  was  released  from  prison 

^  We  may  almost  suppose  that  Griraldus  had  in  view  the  beautiful 
lines  in  which  another  princely  exile  is  described  as  eagerly  scanning 
the  intervening  space  of  waters  for  any  indications  of  his  native  land. 

'lifievo^  Kai  kuttvov  dTroQpojffKovTa  voijcrai 

'Hq  yair]Q.  Odts3.  a.  58. 

Ulysses,  happy  might  he  but  behold 

The  smoke  ascendirig  from  his  native  land. — CowPEE. 

2  Eobert  Fitz  Stephen  was  the  son  of  Stephen,  castellan  of  Abertivy, 
or  Cardigan,  by  Nesta,  daughter  of  Ehys-ap-Tudor,  prince  of  South 
Wales,  and  sister  of  Gri£Pyth-ap-Rhys.  This  extraordinary  woman,  ot 
whom  we  shall  learn  more  in  the  Itinerary  of  Giraldus,  after  being  a 
concubine  of  Henry  II.,  had  for  her  first  husband  Gerald  de  Windsor, 
castellan  of  Pembroke,  by  whom  she  had  three  sons,  the  Fitzgeralds, 
whose  names  frequently  occur  in  the  following  History,  and  a  daugliter 
named  Angharad,  who  married  William  de  Barri,  the  fatlier  of  Sylves- 
ter Giraldus,  our  historian,  and  several  of  whose  other  sons  and  gVand- 
sons  distiuguished  themselves  in  tlie  Conquest  of  Ireland.  The  Fitz- 
geralds were,  therefore,  as  they  are  here  represented,  half-brothers  of 
Robert  Fitz  Stephen.      See  the  Pedigree  at  the  beginning  of  this  Book. 


188  THE    COl^QTJEST    OF    IRELAND. 

on  condition  of  his  joining  Rhys  in  taking  arms  against 
the  king  of  England.  But  Eobert,  considering  that,  on 
the  father's  side,  te  was  naturally  bound  in  fealty  to  the 
king  his  lord,  although  by  his  mother,  Nesta,  a  lady  of 
high  birth,  the  daughter  of  Rhys  the  Great,  he  was 
cousin- german  to  Rhys-ap-Grriffyth,  preferred  committing 
himself  to  the  chances  of  fortune  and  fate,  at  the  hazard  of 
his  life,  in  a  foreign  country,  than  to  undergo  the  charge  of 
disloyalty,  to  the  no  small  stain  on  his  honour  and  reputa- 
tion and  those  of  his  adherents  and  posterity.  Through 
the  mediation,  therefore,  of  David,  bishop  of  St.  David's, 
and  Maurice  Fitzgerald,^  his  half-brothers,  who  negotiated 
between  him  and  Dermitius,  after  licence  obtained  from  Rbys, 
a  contract  was  entered  into  that  Dermitius  should  grant  to 
Eobert  and  Maurice  the  town  of  Wexford,  with  two  adjoin- 
ing cantreds  of  land,  to  be  held  in  fee ;  in  consideration 
whereof  the  said  Robert  and  Maurice  engaged  to  succour  bim 
in  recovering  his  territories,  as  soon  as  spring  should  come 
and  the  winds  be  favourable. 

Meanwhile,  Dermitius,  being  impatient  of  the  sufferings  of 
his  continued  exile,  resolved  on  endeavouring  to  restore 
his  fortunes  in  his  own  country,  which  he  had  vainly  sought 
to  mend  in  a  foreign  land.  He  therefore  went  about  the 
calends  of  August  (1st  August)  to  St.  David's,  the  ancient 
and  rightful  metropolitan  church  of  Wales,^  proposing  to 
embark  from  that  neighbourhood.  The  weather  being  fair, 
and  the  wind  favourable,  it  blowing  from  the  east,  be  set 
sail,  and  encountering  the  dangers  of  the  passage,  and  the 
landing,  disembarked  on  a  hostile  coast,  and,  in  his  impa- 
tience, passed  unattended  through  the  quarters  of  his  nu- 

'  David  II.,  bishop  of  St.  David's,  1149—1176,  under  whose  care 
our  autlior  was  educated  and  firet  advanced  in  t lie  church,  and  Maurice 
Fitzgerald  were  his  uncles.  The  first  conquerors  of  Ireland  were 
nearly  all  descendants  of  Nesta,  either  by  her  two  husbands,  or  through 
a  son  she  had  by  Henry  II.,  and  their  degrees  of  relationship  are  so 
constantly  referred  to  by  their  kinsman,  Giraldus,  that  it  has  been 
thought  advisable  to  subjoin  a  Pedigree  of  the  iamily  to  make  it  clear. 
This  is  inserted  at  the  beginning  of  this  History. 

2  Giraldus  was  a  stout  supporter  of  the  metropolitan  rights  of  the 
Bee  of  St.  David's  against  the  pretensions  of  tlie  archbishops  of  Can- 
terbury. Further  reference  to  St.  David's  will  be  found  in  B.  ii.  c.  1 
of  our  author's  Itinerary  of  Wales. 


TAKING   OF    WEXFOED.  189 

merous  enemies.  Arriving  at  Fern^/  he  was  honourably 
.•eceived  by  the  clergy  of  that  place,  who  entertained  him 
to  the  best  of  their  ability ;  and  for  a  time  laying  aside  bis 
)rincely  dignity,  he  spent  the  winter  there  in  privacy. 

CHAPTER   III. 

I'HE     COMING    OYER     OF    EOBERT    FITZ-STEPHEN,    AlH)     THE 
TAKING    OF    WEXFORD. 

[n  the  meantime,  E-obert  Fitz-Stephen,  mindful  of  his  en- 
gagement and  true  to  his  plighted  faith,  had  mustered 
thirty  men-at-arms,^  of  his  own  kindred  and  retainers,  to- 
gether with  sixty  men  in  half-armour,  and  about  three  hun- 
dred archers  and  foot- soldiers,  the  flower  of  the  youth  of 
Wales,  and  embarking  them  in  three  ships,  landed  at  the 
Banne,  about  the  calends  of  May,  [a.d.  1170].  Then  was 
the  old  prophecy  of  Merlin  the  Wild^  fulfilled  :  "  A  knight, 
bipartite,*  shall  first  break  the  bonds  of  Ireland."  If  you 
wish  to  understand  this  mysterious  prediction,  you  must 
have  respect  to  the  descent  of  Eobert  Eitz-Stephen  by  both 
his  parents.  On  the  father's  side  he  was  an  Anglo-Norman, 
on  the  mother's  a  Cambro-Briton,  being  the  son  of  the  noble 
lady  Nesta. 

In  his  company  there  also  came  over  a  man  of  fallen  for- 
tunes, Hervey  de  Montmaurice,  who,  having  neither  ar- 
mour nor  money,  was  a  spy^  rather  than  a  soldier,  and 

^  Dermot  landed  at  Glass-Carrig,  a  small  creek  and  promontory  on 
the  open  coast  of  Wexford,  about  twelve  miles  south  of  Arklow  Head, 
and  the  same  distance  from  Ferns,  the  see  of  a  bishop,  with  his  chapter, 
by  whom  he  was  hospitably  entertained.  This  city  appears  to  have 
been  also  the  principal  seat  of  the  native  princes  of  Leinster  ;  DubHn 
being  in  the  hands  of  the  Ostmen  or  Norwegians,  under  kings,  so  called, 
of  their  own  race,  who  exercised  an  independent  jurisdiction. 

2  Milites.  See  a  note  to  c.  xi.  on  the  rank  and  class  of  persons  in- 
cluded in  this  term. 

3  Merlini  Sylvestris.    See  on  this  personage  B  ii.  c.  8  of  the  Itinerary. 

*  Not  only  was  the  blood  of  two  races  mingled  in  Fitz-Stephen,  but 
his  armorial  ensigns  were,  in  the  language  of  heraldry,  bipartite ;  parti 
per  pale,  gules  and  ermine,  with  a  saltier  covmtercharged  of  the  same. 

*  Explorator.  Though  the  word  is  translated  spy,  it  is  not  meant  to 
convey  that  he  was  to  act  as  such  on  his  countrymen.  Hervev's  busi- 
ness was  to  enquire  into  the  resources  of  the  country,  and  its  capabili- 
ties, in  order  to  report  to  the  earl,  while  making  preparations  for  his 


190  THE  CONQUEST  OF  IRELAND. 

as  such  acting  for  earl  Richard,  whose  uncle  he  was.  On 
the  following  day,  Maurice  de  Prendergast/  a  stout  and 
bra-ve  soldier,  from  the  district  of  E-os,  in  South  Wales, 
following  Fitz-Stephen,  and  having  embarked  at  the  port  of 
Milford,  with  ten  men-at-arms,  and  a  large  body  of  archers, 
in  two  ships,  landed  also  at  the  Banne.^  All  these  forces 
having  disembarked  on  the  island  of  the  Banne,  and  finding 
themselves  in  a  position  far  from  secure,  the  news  of  their 
landing  having  been  spread  abroad,  they  sent  messengers  to 
Dermitius,  apprizing  him  of  their  arrival.  Meanwhile,  some 
of  the  people  who  dwelt  on  the  coast,  although  they  had 

invasion.  It  does  not  appear  from  the  genealogy  of  the  Clares,  in 
Duquesne,  nor  in  any  other  we  have  seen,  how  this  Hervey  was  related 
to  earl  Richard  Strongbow. 

^  The  family  of  Prendergast  took  their  name  from  a  vill,  formerly 
belonging  to  them,  which  is  now  a  suburb  of  Haverfordwest.  Tliis 
town  was  the  chief  place  in  the  district  of  Ros,  in  which  a  colony  of 
Flemings  was  planted  in  the  time  of  Henry  I.  See  afterwards,  in  the 
"Itinerary  of  Wales,"  B   i.  c.  11. 

2  "  It  is  by  no  means  a  question  devoid  of  interest  to  identify  the 
spot  where  these  first  Anglo-Norman  invaders  set  foot  on  the  soil  of 
Ireland.  There  is  a  tradition  which  places  it  at  a  small  peninsida  or  pro- 
montory on  the  coast  of  Wexford,  now  called  Bagabun,  which,  consisting 
altogether  of  about  thirty  acres,  foinns  a  bold  projection  towards  the 
Welsh  coast.  On  one  side  of  the  greater  headland  is  a  lesser  promon- 
tory stretching  out  to  the  east,  about  two  hundred  yards  long,  and 
seventy  broad,  accessible  only  at  its  extreme  point ;  behind  which  rises 
a  lofty  insulated  rock,  forming  a  breakwater  to  the  surf  on  the  point, 
and  imperfectly  joined  to  the  mainland  by  several  smaller  rocks  wliich 
are  just  seen  above  water,  and  are  described  as  forming  a  kind  of  cause- 
way to  the  point  of  the  promontory  itself.  Here  it  is  pretended  that 
Robert  Fitz- Stephen  ran  in  his  ships,  mooring  them  under  the  protec- 
tion ot  the  larger  rock,  and  landing  his  men  by  means  of  the  low  ridge. 
The  cut  between  the  last  of  these  rocks,  across  which  he  is  said  to  have 
jumped,  is  called  popularly  'Fitz-Stephen's  Stride.'  The  invaders  are 
supposed  to  have  first  occupied  the  esplanade  of  the  smaller  peninsula, 
where  there  are  still  traces  of  hasty  fortifications,  which  command  the 
approaches  and  overlook  the  ground  in  the  vicinity.  In  the  middle  of 
the  rude  encampment  is  a  space  like  the  foundations  of  a  house,  which 
is  called  '  Fitz-Stephen's  Tent.'  Others,  however,  have  been  inclined  to 
disbelieve  the  tradition  which  made  the  Anglo-Normans  land  on  the 
promontory  of  Bagabun,  and  they  think,  from  the  identity  of  the 
name,  and  its  position  with  regard  to  Wexford,  that  the  place  now 
called  Bannow,  which  may,  from  the  known  encroachments  of  the  sea 
en  this  coast,  have  formerly  been  a  peninsula,  is  the  Banne  of  the  an- 
cient writers." — Wrighfs  History  of  Ireland,  vol.  i.  p.  71. 


TAKIXa    OF    WEXFOED.  191 

deserted  Dermitius  wten  fortune  frowned  upon  him,  wTien 
she  changed  her  aspect  flocked  together  to  support  him ; 
according  to  the  words  of  the  poet : 

Sic  cum  fortuna  statque  caditque  fides. 

Thus  loyalty,  with  fortune,  ebbs  and  flows. 
Mac  Murchard,  as  soon  as  he  heard  of  their  coming,  sent 
forward  his  natural  son,  Duvenald,  who,  though  not  legiti- 
mate, was  a  man  of  consequence  in  his  country, to  join  the  En- 
glish expedition,  and  followed  himself,  without  loss  of  time, 
and  in  great  joy,  at  the  head  of  five  hundred  men.  Having 
renewed  their  former  engagements  and  confirmed  them  by 
many  oaths  mutually  exchanged  for  security  on  both  sides, 
they  joined  their  forces,  and  the  combined  troops  of  the 
different  races  being  united  in  one  common  object,  marched 
to  the  attack  of  the  town  of  "Wexford,  distant  about  twelve 
miles  from  the  Banne.  The  people  of  the  town,  when  they 
heard  of  this,  were  so  confident  in  their  wonted  good  for- 
tune, having  been  hitherto  independent,  that  they  sallied 
forth,  to  the  number  of  about  two  thousand  men,  and  meet- 
ing the  enemy  near  their  camp,  resolved  on  giving  them 
battle.  But  when  they  perceived  the  troops  to  which  they 
were  opposed,  arrayed  in  a  manner  they  had  never  before 
witnessed,  and  a  body  of  horsemen,  with  their  bright  ar- 
mour, helmets,  and  shields,  they  adopted  new  plans  with  a 
new  state  of  affairs,  and  having  set  fire  to,  and  burnt  the 
Bubuirbs,  forthwith  retired  within  their  walls. 

Eitz-Stephen  lost  no  time  in  preparing  for  the  attack  ;  and 
lining  the  trenches  with  those  of  his  troops  who  wore  ar- 
mour, while  the  archers  were  posted  so  as  to  command  the 
advanced  towers,  an  assault  was  made  on  the  walls  with 
loud  cries  and  desperate  vigour.  But  the  townsmen  were 
ready  to  stand  on  their  defence,  and  casting  down  from  the 
battlements  large  stones  and  beams,  repulsed  the  attack  for 
a  while,  and  caused  numerous  losses.  Among  the  wounded 
was  Eobert  de  Barri,^  a  young  soldier,  who,  inflamed  with 
ardent  valour,  and  dauntless  in  the  face  of  death,  was  among 
the  first  who  scaled  the  walls  ;  but  being  struck  upon  his 
helmet  by  a  great  stone,  and  falling  headlong  into  the  ditch 

'  Robert  de  Barri  was  an  elder  brother  of  Giraldus,  being  the  son 
of  William  de  Barri,  who  married  Angharad,  daughter  of  Nesta,  by 
Gerald  de  Windsor.     See  the  Pedigree  at  the  beginning  of  this  history 


192  THE    CONQUEST    OF    IRELAIH). 

below,  narrowly  escaped  with  his  life,  his  comrades  with 
some  difficulty  drawing  him  out.  Sixteen  years  afterwards 
all  his  jaw-teeth  fell  out  from  the  effects  of  this  stroke,  and, 
what  is  more  strange,  new  teeth  grew  in  their  places.  Upon 
this  repulse,  withdrawing  from  the  walls,  tbey  gathered  in 
haste  on  the  neighbouring  strand,  and  forthwith  set  fire  to 
all  the  ships  they  found  lying  there.  Among  these,  a  mer- 
chant-ship, lately  arrived  from  the  coast  of  Britain  with  a 
cargo  of  corn  and  wine,  was  moored  in  the  harbour ;  and  a 
band  of  the  boldest  youths  rowing  out  in  boats,  got  on 
board  the  vessel,  but  were  carried  out  to  sea,  the  sailors 
having  cut  the  hawsers  from  the  anchors,  and  the  wind 
blowing  from  the  west ;  so  that  it  was  not  without  great 
risk,  and  hard  rowing  after  taking  to  their  boats  again,  that 
they  regained  the  land. 

Thus  fortune,  constant  only  in  her  instability,  almost 
deserted  not  only  Mac  Murchard,  but  Titz-Stephen  also. 
However,  on  the  following  morning,  after  mass  had  been 
celebrated  throughout  the  army,  they  proceeded  to  renew 
the  assault  with  more  circumspection  and  order,  relying  on 
their  skill  as  well  as  their  courage ;  and  when  they  drew 
near  to  the  walls,  the  townsmen,  despairing  of  being  able 
to  defend  them,  and  reflecting  that  they  were  disloyally  re- 
sisting their  prince,  sent  envoys  to  Dermitius  commissioned 
to  treat  of  the  terms  of  peace.  At  length,  by  the  media- 
tion of  two  bishops,  who  chanced  to  be  in  the  town  at  that 
time,  and  other  worthy  and  peaceable  men,  peace  was  re- 
stored, the  townsmen  submitting  to  Dermitius,  and  delivering 
four  of  their  chief  men  as  hostages  for  their  fealty  to  him. 
And  the  more  to  animate  the  courage  of  his  adherents,  and 
reward  their  chiefs  for  their  first  success,  he  forthwith 
granted  the  town,  with  the  whole  territory  appertaining  to 
it,  to  Fitz-Stephen  and  Maurice,  according  to  the  stipula- 
tions in  their  original  treaty.  He  also  conferred  on  Hervey 
de  Montmaurice  two  cantreds  lying  between  the  towns  of 
Wexford  and  Waterford,  to  hold  to  him  and  his  heirs  in  fee. 


COKQTJEST    OF    OSSOET.  198 

CHAPTEE  ly. 

THE    COIfQTJEST    OF    OSSOET. 

These  things  having  been  accomplislied  according  to  their 
desires,  and  their  troops  having  been  reinforced  by  the 
townsmen  of  "Wexford,  they  directed  their  march  towards 
Ossory,^  with  an  army  numbering  about  three  thousand 
men.  Duvenald,  the  prince  of  Ossory,  was  the  most  implac- 
able of  all  the  enemies  of  Dermitius  ;  and  some  time  be- 
fore, when  the  son  of  Dermitius  was  his  prisoner,  having 
become  jealous  of  him,  he  carried  his  vengeance  to  such  a 
pitch,  that  he  put  out  his  eyes.  When,  therefore,  the 
combined  forces  first  entered  Ossory,  they  did  not  pene- 
trate far  into  the  province ;  for  it  being  intricate  and 
full  of  difficult  passes,  woods,  and  bogs,  they  found  that 
the  people  were  able  to  make  a  stout  resistance  in  defence 
of  their  country.  Whereupon,  elated  by  their  frequent  suc- 
cesses, they  pursued  their  enemies  even  as  far  as  the  open 
plains.  There,  however,  the  horsemen  of  Eitz-Stepheu 
turned  upon  them,  and  charging  them  fiercely,  defeated 
them  with  great  slaughter,  and  scattering  the  fugitives  over 
the  country,  slew  them  with  their  lances,  and  those  who 
were  dashed  to  the  ground  by  the  charge  of  horse  had  their 
heads  quickly  cut  off"  by  the  broad-axes  of  the  Irish  foot 
soldiers.  The  victory  being  thus  gained,  about  two  hun- 
dred of  the  enemies'  heads  were  collected  and  laid  at  the 
feet  of  Dermitius,  who,  turning  them  over  one  by  one,  in 
order  to  recognize  them,  thrice  lifted  his  hands  to  heaven 
in  the  excess  of  his  joy,  and  with  a  loud  voice  returned 
thanks  to  Grod  most  High.  Among  them  was  the  head  of 
one  he  mortally  hated  above  all  the  rest,  and  taking  it  up 
by  the  ears  and  hair,  he  tore  the  nostrils  and  lips  with  his 
teeth  in  a  most  savage  and  inhuman  manner. 

After  this,  they  made  several  inroads  through  the  farthest 

'  The  progress  of  their  enterprise  for  reinstating  Dei'mot  mac  Mui'- 
rough  in  his  principality  of  Leinster,  -would  naturally  lead  his  foreign 
allies,  uniting  their  forces  with  his,  to  march  northwards  from  Wex- 
ford, following  the  course  of  the  Nore  or  the  Barrow,  into  the  districts 
of  Ossory,  one  of  which  lay  in  the  diocese  of  Leighlin,  and  the  other  in 
that  of  Kilkenny.  These  were  probably  the  two  bishops  who  assisted 
in  negotiaring  the  treaty. 

O 


104  THE    CO^^QUEST    OF    lEELATTD. 

parts  of  the  country,  which  they  ravaged  and  devastated 
with  fire  and  sword,  until  at  length  the  prince  of  Ossory, 
by  the  advice  of  his  counsellors,  sued  for  peace,  which  was 
granted,  although  it  was  false  on  both  sides,  and,  giving 
hostages  and  taking  solemn  oaths,  he  did  fealty  to  Dermitius. 

In  these  encounters,  as  in  all  others,  Robert  de  Barri  and 
Meyler^  distinguished  themselves  above  the  rest  by  their 
eminent  courage.  Both  these  young  men  were  nephews  of 
Fitz-Stephen,  the  one  being  his  brother's  son,  the  other  his 
sister's.  They  differed  in  their  tempers  and  dispositions, 
and  agreed  only  in  their  valour.  Meyler  being  ambitious 
of  honour  and  glory,  all  his  acts  had  especial  reference  to 
that  end,  and  he  lost  no  opportunity  of  doing  anything 
which  could  add  to  his  fame  ;  but  he  was  more  desirous  of 
appearing  brave  than  of  being  so.  The  other  was  naturally 
a  person  of  distinguished  courage,  who  neither  coveted 
praise  nor  affected  popularity,  and  strove  rather  to  be  always 
among  the  first  than  to  appear  so.  Such  was  his  natural 
disposition,  that  with  a  modesty  becoming  a  maiden,  he 
neither  boasted  of  or  proclaimed  his  own  doings,  nor  would 
he  suffer  others  to  sound  his  praises.  Hence  it  happened, 
that  the  less  he  coveted  honour,  the  more  it  clung  to  him  ;  for 
honour  follows  virtue,  like  a  shadow  the  substance ;  but  it 
deserts  those  who  are  most  ambitious  of  it,  and  clings  to 
those  who  despise  it,  often  more  than  they  would  wish,  and 
many  men  are  more  liked  because  they  take  no  pains  to 
please ;  praise  being  gained  in  an  extraordinary  manner 
when  it  is  avoided. 

It  happened,  while  the  army  was  in  Ossory,  that  they  en- 
camped one  night  in  a  certain  old  fortification,  and  these 
two  young  men  lying,  as  they  were  wont,  in  the  same  tent, 

^  Of  these  two  cousins,  Robert  de  Barri  has  been  ah-eady  noticed. 
Meyler,  sometimes  called,  though  not  by  our  author,  Meyler  Fitz- 
Henry,  was  the  younger  of  the  three  sons  of  Henry,  an  illegitimate  son 
of  Henry  I.,  by  Nesta.  Meyler  is  a  prominent  character  in  this  His- 
tory ;  but  though  Giraldus  dwells  with  satisfaction  on  the  renown  of  his 
kinsman,  and  describes  him  as  the  nephew  of  Robert  Fitz-Stephen 
and  Maurice  Fitzgerald,  and  consequently  cousin-german  of  the  De 
Barris,  he  does  not,  for  obvious  reasons,  as  a  churchman,  trace  his 
lineage  through  his  own  grandmother  Nesta,  to  her  royal  paramour. 
See  the  pedigree. 


LEAGUE  AGAINST  DEEMITIUS  AND  EITZ- STEPHEN.      195 

suddenly  there  was  a  great  noise,  as  it  were,  of  many  thou- 
sand men  rushing  in  upon  them  from  all  sides,  with  a  great 
rattling  of  their  arms  and  clashing  of  their  battle-axes.  Such 
spectral  appearances  frequently  occur  in  Ireland  to  those  who 
are  engaged  in  hostile  excursions.  The  alarm  was  so  general 
that  the  greatest  part  of  the  army  took  to  flight  and  hid 
themselves  in  the  woods  and  marshes ;  but  the  two  cousins, 
Bnatching  up  their  arms,  ran  to  the  tents  of  Fitz-Stephen, 
loudly  calling  on  their  scattered  comrades  to  rally  for  the 
defence  of  the  camp.  Amidst  the  general  confusion,  Eobert 
de  Barri  exerted  himself  actively,  to  the  admiration  as  well 
as  the  envy  of  many,  for  the  safety  of  any  of  his  retainers 
who  might  happen  to  be  there.  For  among  his  various  ex- 
cellent qualities,  this  one  was  especially  noted,  that  in  no 
attack,  however  unexpected,  in  no  sudden  surprise,  was  he 
ever  known  to  fear  or  despair,  or  to  flee  shamefully,  or  to 
exhibit  any  consternation  of  mind.  He  was  always  himself, 
always  prepared  to  stand  on  his  guard,  always  ready  to  fly 
to  arms.     He  truly  is  the  bravest  man, 

Qui  promptus  metuenda  pati,  si  cominus  instent ; 
Et  deferre  potens. 

Who  to  the  rescue  springs,  when  dangers  press, 
And  stoutly  wards  them  off. 

This  E/obert  de  Barri  was  the  first  man-at-arms  who  was 
struck  down  and  wounded  in  this  invasion  of  Ireland. 

CHAPTEE  y. 

THE    WHOLE    OE    lEELAND    IN   LEAGUE    AGAINST    DEE:M:ITIUS 
AND    EITZ-STEPHEN. 

In  the  mean  time,  the  wheel  of  fortune  turns,  and  those 
who  were  at  the  top  are  threatened  with  a  sudden  fall. 
Eor  as  soon  as  the  late  successes  of  Dermitius,  and  the  arrival 
of  a  formidable  band  of  foreign  troops,  were  known  through- 
out the  island,  Eoderic,  prince  of  Connaught,  and  monarch 
of  all  Ireland/  considering  how  great   things  arise  from 

'  Roderic  O'Connor,  prince  or  king  of  Connaught,  was  also  "mo- 
narch "  or  paramount  lord  of  all  Ireland.  This  high  dignity,  corre- 
•ponding  with  that  of  the  Bretwalda  in  the  Saxon  Heptarchy,  was  con- 

o  2 


196  THE  COXQUEST  OF  lEELAND. 

email  beginnings,  and  foreseeing  tlie  evils  wlncli  threatened 
himself  and  his  country  from  the  coming  in  of  strangers, 
sent  round  messengers,  and  convoked  an  assembly  of  tho 
chief  men  from  all  parts  of  the  island.  These  having  taken 
counsel  with  him,  it  was  unanimously  resolved  to  make  war 
against  Dermitius,  and  several  bodies  of  troops,  with  a  vast 
multitude  of  the  people,  were  gathered  together  at  Kente- 
leia  in  Leinster. 

Meanwhile  Dermitius,  in  the  time  of  his  utmost  Deed,  found 
that  he  had  very  few  firm  supporters,  except  Fitz-Stephen 
and  his  followers  ;  some  of  his  other  reed-like  friends  aban- 
doning his  cause,  and  withdrawing  privately  from  his  stan- 
dard, and  the  rest  openly  joining  his  enemies,  and  so  break- 
ing their  oaths  of  fealty  to  him.  He  therefore  retreated 
with  his  remaining  force  to  a  position  not  far  from  Ferns, 
which  was  surrounded  by  thick  woods  and  steep  mountains, 
with  waters  and  bogs,  which  made  it  naturally  very  inac- 
cessible. Here,  under  Fitz-Stephen's  direction,  they  felled 
trees,  plashed  the  underwood,  broke  up  the  surface  of  the 
level  ground  by  digging  deep  holes  and  trenches,  and  cut 
secret  and  narrow  passages  through  the  thickets  in  several 
places  for  the  purpose  of  egress  and  ingress  in  case  of  at- 
tack, so  that  having  thus  added  to  the  natural  strength  of 
the  position  by  Ihese  defences,  on  which  they  bestowed 
great  industry,  they  succeeded  in  completely  shutting  out 
the  enemy,  while  means  of  access  were  open  to  themselves 
and  their  friends. 

CHAPTEE  YL 

THE    DESCEIPTION    OF    DEEMITIUS,    SOI?"    OF   MUECHAED. 

Deemititjs  was  tall  in  stature,  and  of  large  proportions,  and, 
being  a  great  warrior  and  valiant  in  his  nation,  bis  voice  had 

ferred  by  election,  in  a  national  assembly  of  the  Irish,  on  one  of  tlie 
four  kings  or  princes  of  the  provinces  into  whicli  the  island  was 
divided  ;  the  fifth,  Meath,  being  assigned  for  the  i-upport  of  the  house- 
hold of  the  paramount  king  for  the  time  being.  '1  he  other  princes  did 
homage  to  him,  and  were  bound  to  submit  to  hiS  commands  in  peace  and 
war  The  supremacy  was  usually  conferred  on  one  or  ether  of  the 
reigning  princes  of  the  Mac  Carthies  of  Munster,  the  Mac  Murro>:ghs 
of  Leinster,  or  the  O'Connors  of  Connaught. 


EODEEIC'S    SPEECH.  197 

become  hoarse  by  constantly  shouting  and  raising  his  war- 
cry  in  battle.  Bent  more  on  inspiring  fear  than  love,  he  op- 
pressed his  nobles,  though  he  advanced  the  lowly.  A  tyrant 
to  his  own  people,  he  was  hated  by  strangers  ;  his  hand  was 
against  every  man,  and  the  hands  of  every  man  against  him. 
Meanwhile,  Eoderic'  sent  messengers  to  Titz-Stephen,  with 
great  presents  and  offers,  to  endeavour  to  persuade  him  to 
depart  in  peace  and  amity,  from  a  country  in  which  he  could 
challenge  no  sort  of  right ;  but  the  message  was  fruitless. 
The  envoys  then  applied  to  Mac  Murchard,  exhorting  him  to 
unite  his  forces  with  theirs  in  exterminating  the  foreigners, 
and  promising  that  on  his  so  doing  the  whole  of  Leinster 
should  be  peaceably  restored  to  him,  and  that  Eoderic  would 
enter  into  a  treaty  of  close  alliance  with  him  ;  they  alleged 
many  reasons  concerning  their  common  country  and  nation, 
and  used  much  speech  to  induce  him  to  take  this  course  ; 
but  all  to  no  purpose. 


CHAPTEE  YII. 

EODEEIC'S    SPEECH. 

RoDEEic,  perceiving  that  these  proposals  were  of  no  avail, 
and  being  convinced  that  he  must  have  recourse  to  arms  as 
his  last  refuge,  assembled  his  forces,  and  thus  addressed 
them : — 

"  Eight  noble  and  valiant  defenders  of  your  country 
and  liberty,  let  us  consider  with  what  nations  and  for  what 
causes  we  are  now  about  to  wage  battle.  That  enemy  of 
his  country,  that  tyrant  of  his  people,  and  foe  of  all  men, 
who  was  formerly  driven  out  of  the  land,  is  now  returned 
with  the  support  of  foreign  troops,  and  bent  on  the  general 
ruin  of  the  state.  Envious  of  his  country's  welfare,  he  has 
brought  in  a  foreign  race,  that,  by  the  aid  of  a  fierce  and  de- 
tested nation,  he  may  be  able  to  inflict  upon  us  the  mischief 
to  which  his  own  strength  was  unequal.  Himself  an  enemy, 
he  has  called  in  our  greatest  national  enemy ;  a  people  who 
have  long  aimed  at  being  lords  over  him  as  well  as  over  aU 
of  us,  and  give  out  that  the  dominion  of  our  land  justly  be- 

'  Eoderic  O'Connor,  prince  of  Connaught. 


198  THE    CONQUEST   OF   lEELATTD. 

longs  to  them,  and  is  even  destined  to  them  by  ancient  pro- 
phecies. Nay,  he  has  so  universally  diffused  his  venom  that, 
while  all  are  contaminated  with  it,  he  has  not  even  spared 
himself.  O  cruel,  and  far  more  cruel  than  ever  bt^ast 
was !  For  to  satisfy  his  insatiable  malice  in  the  blood  of 
his  own  people,  he  spares  neither  himself  nor  his  country, 
nor  sex,  nor  age.  This  is  he  who  formerly  was  a  most  cruel 
tyrant  over  his  own  subjects ;  this  is  he  who,  supported  by 
bands  of  armed  foreigners,  is  preparing  to  revel  in  the 
blood  of  us  all.  He  deserves  therefore  to  be  treated  as  a 
public  enemy,  who  proves  himself  to  be  the  enemy  of  all. 
Mark,  my  countrymen,  mark  well,  how  most  states  have  been 
overthrown  in  this  way  ;  I  mean  by  civil  discord.  Julius 
Caesar,  after  having  twice  shewn  his  back  to  the  Britons,  re- 
turned the  third  time,  and  subdued  the  country  on  the  invi- 
tation of  Androgius,  who  was  a  victim  to  his  own  thirst  for 
revenge.^  This  same  Julius,  after  having,  at  length,  con- 
quered the  western  parts  of  the  world,  ambitious  of  su- 
preme power,  did  not  hesitate  to  bring  foreign  nations  to 
shed  the  blood  of  the  Eoman  people,  in  a  worse  than  civil 
war.  To  come  to  examples  nearer  home  and  our  own  times, 
we  find  Grurmund  the  terror  of  the  isles,  bringing  in  the 
Saxons  for  the  subjugation  of  the  Britons,  though  it  turned 
out  to  his  own  ruin  and  humiliation.  Soon  afterwards, 
Isembard,  the  king  of  the  Franks,  but  the  enemy  of  his 
people,  called  in  the  aid  of  Gurmund  to  conquer  France, 
but  without  success.  Let  us  then,  following  the  example 
of  the  Franks,  and  fighting  bravely  for  our  country,  rush 
against  our  enemies  ;  and,  as  these  foreigners  have  come 
over  few  in  numbers,  let  us  crush  them  by  a  general  attack. 
Fire,  while  it  only  sparkles,  may  be  speedily  quenched ;  but 
when  it  has  burst  into  a  flame,  being  fed  with  fresh  ma- 
terials, its  power  increases  with  their  bulk,  and  it  cannot  be 
easily  extinguished.  It  is  always  best  to  meet  difficulties 
half-way,  and  check  the  first  approaches  of  disease  ;  for, 

sero  medicina  paratur, 

Cum  mala  per  longas  invaluere  moras. 

Too  late  is  medicine,  after  long  delay, 

To  stop  the  lingering  course  of  slow  decay. 

^  All  this  "  British"  history  is  of  coiarse  taken  from  Geoffrey  of  MoB« 

EOttth. 


SPEECH    or   DEEMITIUS.  199 

Wherefore,  defending  our  country  and  liberty,  and  acquir- 
ing for  ourselves  eternal  renown,  let  us  by  a  resolute  attack 
and  tbe  extermination  of  our  enemies,  though  they  are  but 
few  in  number,  strike  terror  into  many,  and  by  their  fate  for 
ever  deter  foreign  nations  from  such  nefarious  attempts." 


CHAPTEE  YIII. 

THE    SPEECH    OF    DEEMITIUS. 

Mac  Mtjechari),  perceiving  that  his  troops  were  disheart- 
ened, and  apparently  in  a  state  of  consternation,  reanimated 
them  in  the  best  manner  he  could.  "  Ye  men  of  Leinster," 
he  said,  "  my  tried  comrades,  whose  faithful  allegiance  and 
resolute  spirit  have  been  my  support  under  all  changes  of 
fortune,  now  is  the  time  for  us  to  stand  boldly  on  our  de- 
fence. That  bold  contriver  of  wicked  devices  and  ambi- 
tious prince,  Eoderic,  who  is  aiming  to  subject  all  of  us  to 
a  universal  tyranny,  threatens  now  to  drive  us  again  from 
our  country,  or  even,  which  Grod  forbid,  to  massacre  us 
in  it,  and  the  danger  is  imminent.  Arrogant  in  his  num- 
bers, he  measures  his  ambition  by  the  strength  of  bis  arm ; 
but  a  small  and  well-armed  band,  if  brave,  have  often  dis- 
comfited an  unarmed  and  ill-organized  rabble.  Does  he 
lay  claim  to  Leinster,  because  some  of  its  princes  have  been 
occasionally  subject  to  the  kings  of  Connaught  ?  By  the 
same  reason,  I  may  challenge  a  right  to  Connaught,  because 
it  has  been  sometimes  held  under  my  ancestors  when  they 
were  monarchs  of  all  Ireland.  But  he  does  not  merely  seek 
to  rule  as  a  monarch,  but  to  condemn,  to  destroy,  to  drive 
us  out  of  the  country,  and,  succeeding  in  his  own  person  to 
all  our  rights  and  inheritance,  to  become  sole  master  of  all. 
Many  there  are  who  boast  of  their  great  numbers  and 
trust  therein,  but  let  them  be  well  assured  that  the  men  of 
Leinster  never  shrunk  from  engaging  a  host  of  men ;  for 
victory  is  not  won  by  numbers,  but  by  valour  and  resolution. 
"We,  on  our  side,  have  humility  against  pride,  right  and  equity 
against  injustice,  moderation  against  arrogance  ;  men  gain 
the  victory  by  numerous  virtues,  not  by  innumerable  forces. 
Law  and  right  allows  us  to  repel  force  and  injury  by 
force.     It  is  a  favourable  cause  to  contend  at  once  for  our 


200  TnE    CONQUEST    OF    IRELAJTD. 

country  and  our  inheritance.  They  fight  for  gain,  we  to 
avoid  loss.  Moreoyer,  we  occupy  ground  which  is  strongly 
fortified  both  by  nature  and  art,  where  excessive  numbers 
would  be  inconvenient,  and  a  small  force,  full  of  courage  and 
acting  in  concert,  may  suffice  to  secure  success." 

CHAPTEE   IX. 

THE    SPEECH    OF    EOBEBT    FITZ-STEPHEJif. 

"When  Dermitius  had  ended  his  speech,  Fitz-Stephen  thua 
addressed  his  followers  :  "  Ye  brave  youths,  my  comrades 
in  war,  who  have  gone  through  so  many  perils  with  me, 
and  been  ever  courageous  and  indomitable,  if  we  now  con- 
sider what  we  are,  under  what  leader,  and  for  what  purpose 
we  encounter  our  present  dangers,  our  wonted  valour  will 
still  be  in  the  ascendant,  and  the  good  fortune  of  our  for- 
mer wars  will  not  desert  us.  We  derive  our  descent,  ori- 
ginally, in  part  from  the  blood  of  the  Trojans,  and  partly 
we  are  of  the  French  race.^  From  the  one  we  have  our 
native  courage,  from  the  other  the  use  of  armour.  Since, 
then,  inheriting  such  generous  blood  on  both  sides,  we 
are  not  only  brave,  but  well  armed,  can  it  be  supposed  that 
an  unarmed  multitude  and  mere  rabble  are  able  to  resist 
us? 

"  Hecollect,  besides,  that  we  have  left  behind  in  our  na- 
tive land  ample  patrimonies  which  we  lost  through  domestic 
frauds  and  intestine  mischiefs.  Wherefore,  we  are  come 
hither,  not  for  the  sake  of  pay  or  plunder,  but  induced  by 
the  promise  of  towns  and  lands,  to  be  granted  to  us  and  our 
heirs  for  ever.  We  are  not  come  as  pirates  or  freebooters, 
but  to  reinstate  this  illustrious,  generous,  and  liberal 
prince  in  his  own  territories,  of  which  he  has  been  despoiled 
by  the  treason  of  his  followers.  We  have  compassion  on 
the  distressed,  we  succour  the  oppressed,  we  restore  the  des- 
titute to  his  country  and  his  inheritance.  He  loves  our 
naiion,  he  it  is  who  hath  invited  us  here,  and  proposed  to 

•  Alluding  to  the  tradition  or  fable,  of  the  Trojans,  under  Brute,  the 
grandson  of  Dardanus,  having  estabhshed  themselves  in  Britain.  The 
•dmixture  of  Norman  blood  in  these  Cambrian  adventurers  is  less  quea- 


HOW  PEACE  WAS  EESTOEED.  201 

plant  our  race,  and  for  ever  settle  it,  in  this  island.  It  may 
be  the  consequence  of  this  enterprise  that  the  five  portions 
into  which  it  is  divided  may  be  reduced  into  one,  and  the 
dominion  of  the  whole  kingdom  devolve  on  our  posterity. 
If  the  victory  be  won  by  our  prowess,  and  Mac  Murchard 
be  restored,  and  the  realm  of  Ireland  be  secured  by  our  en- 
terprise for  us  and  our  heirs  for  ever,  how  great  will  be  our 
glory,  how  worthy  of  being  achieved  even  by  the  loss  of  life 
and  the  contempt  of  death. 

"  For  what  is  death,  but  a  momentary  interval  of  time, 
a  brief  delay,  and,  as  it  were,  a  short  sleep  between  this 
fleeting  life  and  that  which  is  enduring  ?  AVhat  is  death, 
but  a  short  passage  from  things  transitory  to  things  eternal? 
We  must  all  die,  because  that  is  the  inevitable  and  common 
fate  of  mankind ;  and  though  no  splendid  or  glorious  actions 
may  have  made  us  illustrious  during  life,  by  our  deaths,  at 
least,  we  may  make  our  names  memorable  in  future  ages. 
Death  is  only  to  be  feared  by  those  who  when  they  die  ap- 
pear as  though  all  had  perished  with  them  ;  but  it  has  no 
terror  for  such  as  have  gained  honour  which  can  never  fall 
into  oblivion.  Wherefore,  ye  valiant  men,  whose  renown 
is  already  known  to  fame,  let  us  strive  to  shew  this  day  that 
our  race  has  not  degenerated,  but  in  this  conflict,  either  by 
victory  or  death,  gain  immortal  fame  as  the  reward  of  your 
valour." 


CHAPTEE  X. 

now   PEACE    WAS    EESTOEED. 

EoDEEic  well  knowing  the  uncertainty  of  events  in  war, 
and  that,  as  it  is  justly  said,  "  A  wise  man  should  try  every 
means  before  he  has  recourse  to  arms,"  and  also  greatly 
dreading  to  join  battle  with  foreigners  who  were  completely 
armed,  he  sent  envoys  to  endeavour  by  all  manner  of  means 
to  obtain  terms  of  peace.  Wherefore,  by  the  mediation  of 
good  men,  with  the  assistance  of  the  Divine  mercy,  peace 
was  at  length  agreed  to  upon  the  following  conditions  :  that 
all  Leinster  should  be  left  under  the  dominion  of  Dermitius, 
and  that  he  should  acknowledge  Eoderic  to  be  the  para- 
mount king  and  monarch  of  Ireland,  and  yield  him  due  sub- 


202  THE    CONQUEST    OF   lEELAT^D. 

mission.  For  the  performance  of  this,  Dermitius  delivered 
his  son  Cnuth  as  an  hostage,  and  Eoderic  promised  that  if 
in  the  course  of  time  the  peace  should  continue  fiimly  es- 
tablished, he  would  give  his  daughter  in  marriage  to  this 
young  prince.  These  conditions  were  publicly  proclaimed, 
and  confirmed  by  oaths  sworn  by  both  parties  ;  but  there  was 
also  a  secret  agreement  between  them  that  Dermitius  should 
not  bring  any  more  foreigners  into  the  island;  and  should 
even  send  away  those  he  had  called  in,  as  soon  as  he  had 
reduced  Leinster  to  a  state  of  order. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

THE    COMIT^a    OVER    OE    MAURICE    FITZGERALD,    AND    THE 
CONQUEST    OF    DUBLIN. 

These  matters  being  settled,  and  fortune  appearing  again 
to  smile  upon  them  with  a  more  favourable  aspect,  behold, 
Maurice  Eitzgerald,  of  whom  I  have  already  spoken  in  the 
Second  Chapter,  and  who  was  half-brother  by  the  mother's 
side  to  Robert  Fitz-Stephen,  landed  at  Wexford  with  ten 
men-at-arms,^  thirty  mounted  retainers,  and  about  one  liun- 

1  There  being  no  equivalent  terms  in  Latin  for  describing  tlie  different 
classes  of  military  men  in  the  middle  ages,  the  chroniclers  often  apphed 
the  word  milites  to  soldiers  of  aU  ranks,  and  especially  to  those  of  the 
higher  classes.  This  has  led  to  some  confusion,  the  word  having  been 
often  incjiscriminately  translated  knights.  The  order  of  knighthood 
was,  however,  a  very  high  distinction,  and  conferred  with  much  cere- 
mony in  chivalrous  times,  and  it  is  plain  that  the  number  of  "milites  " 
described  by  Giraldus  as  going  over  in  the  several  expeditions  to  Ire- 
land is  much  too  great  to  be  of  this  high  rank.  But  the  term  included 
not  only  knights,  but  all  who  were  armed,  cap-a-pied,  or  in  complete  ar- 
mour, and  who  of  course  served  on  horseback.  Grose  {Mil.  Antiq.  vol. 
i,  c.  5)  says  that  this  force  was  chiefly  composed  of  the  tenants  in 
capite.  Now  every  tenant  by  knight-sei'vice  was  required  to  find  a 
certain  number  of  horsemen  in  complete  armour,  in  proportion  to  the 
fees  he  held,  and  the  number  was  made  up  of  his  kinsmen  and  his 
mesne-tenants  owing  him  feudal  service.  In  the  case  of  these  Welsh 
levies  for  the  invasion  of  Ireland,  the  service  was  voluntary  ;  personal 
attachment  to  a  tried  and  brave  leader,  the  ties  of  kindred,  so  strong 
and  extensive  in  Wales,  the  love  of  adventure,  and  the  prospect  of 
carving  out  an  inheritance  by  the  sword,  drew  numbers  to  the  standard. 
Generally,  then,  this  class  of  military  men  represented  what  we  should 
BOW  call  the  landed  genti-y  of  the  comitry  j  a  class  below  barons  and 


AREITAL    OF    MAUEICE    FITZGEEALD,  208 

dred  archers  and  foot-soldiers,  who  came  over  in  two  ships. 
This  Maurice  was  a  man  much  distinguished  for  his  honour 
and  courage,  of  an  almost  maidenish  modesty,  true  to  his 
word,  and  firm  in  his  resolution.  Mac  Murchard  was  much 
delighted  and  encouraged  by  the  tidings  of  this  new  arrival, 
and  calling  to  mind,  with  the  desire  of  vengeance,  the  deep 
injuries  which  the  people  of  Dublin  had  done  both  to  his 
father  and  himself,  he  assembled  an  army  and  prepared  to 
march  towards  Dublin. 

In  the  mean  time,  Fitz-Stephen  was  building  a  fort  upon 
a  steep  rock,  commonly  called  the  Karrec,  situated  about 
two  miles  from  Wexford,  a  place  strong  by  nature,  but 
which  art  made  still  stronger.^  Maurice  Rtzgerald,  how- 
ever, with  the  English  troops,  joined  the  army  under 
Dermitius,  who  took  the  command  and  acted  as  guide.  In  a 
short  time,  the  whole  territory  belonging  to  Dublin,  with  the 
adjacent  districts,  were  almost  laid  waste,  and  reduced  to 
the  last  extremity,  by  the  ravages  of  the  enemy,  and  by  fire 
and  sword ;  so  that  at  length  the  townsmen  sued  for  peace, 
and   gave  security  for   keeping   their  allegiance   to   their 

kuights,  but  of  sufficient  substance  to  provide  themselves  with  a  war 
horse  and  complete  armour,  a  very  costly  equipment  in  those  days. 
We  have  usually  adopted  the  phrase  "  man-at-arms  "  to  describe  this 
class  of  combatants,  the  milites  of  our  author.  Hooker,  his  old  trans- 
lator, whose  version  is  not  only  quaint,  but  often  very  incorrect,  calls 
them  "  gentlemen  of  service  ;"  but  the  phrase  here  adopted  is,  we  think, 
preferable,  it  being  understood  to  what  class  in  society  the  "  men-at- 
arms  "  belonged.  The  imniediate  body-guard  of  the  sovereign  in  the 
present  day,  composed  of  men  of  a  certain  bu'th  and  standing,  are 
called  "  gentlemen  at  arms,"  as  distinguished  from  the  "  yeomen  of  the 
guard  j"  but,  although  that  designation  would  very  nearly  convey  the 
idea  intended,  it  is  scarcely  suited  to  a  translation  of  a  work  of  the  age 
of  Griraldus. 

The  men-at-arms  were  attended  by  their  servants  and  retainers,  who 
wore  half-armour,  and  formed  an  additional  body  of  cavalry,  in  the  pro- 
portion, we  find,  of  two  or  three  to  each  man-at-arms.  The  infantry 
consisted  of  spear  and  bill-men,  cross-bowmen,  and  archers,  in  the  pro« 
portion  of  ten  or  more,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  service. 

^  Fitz-Stephen's  party  threw  up  a  slight  rampart  of  sods  and  stakes 
to  fortify  their  camp  on  the  Carrig,  an  elevated  position,  washed  on  two 
sides  by  the  harbour  of  Wexford,  and  about  two  miles  from  the  town. 
A  strong  fort  was  afterwards  erected  on  the  spot. 


204!  THE  CONQUEST  OP  IRELAND. 

prince  in  time  to  come,  and  paying  him  due  homage  and 
service. 

Meanwhile,  quarrels  having  broken  out  between  Eoderic 
of  Connaught  and  Duvenald  of  Limerick,  as  soon  as  Eoderic 
with  his  troops  made  an  irruption  on  the  borders  of  Limerick, 
Dermitius  despatched  Fitz-Stephen  and  his  followers  to  the 
relief  of  Duvenald,  who  was  his  son-in-law.  Duvenald  thus 
supported,  after  several  battles,  in  all  of  which  he  was  vic- 
torious, compelled  Eoderic  to  retreat  with  disgrace  into 
his  own  territories,  and  freed  himself  altogether  from  any 
acknowledgment  of  his  supremacy.  In  this  expedition, 
as  in  all  others,  Meyler  and  Eobert  de  Barri  distinguished 
themselves  by  their  extraordinary  valour.  It  was  at  this 
time  that  the  woman  was  seen  who  had  a  beard,  and  a  mane 
upon  her  back,  like  a  horse,  of  whom  I  have  already  spoken 
in  Distinct,  ii.  c.  20  of  my  Topography. 


CHAPTEE  XII. 

THE    PEEPAEATIONS     OP    EAEL    RICHARD. 

Mac  Murchard,  elated  wdth  his  late  successes,  raised  his 
hopes  still  higher,  and  having  now  recovered  all  his  patri- 
monial territories,  became  ambitious  of  regaining  the  rights 
of  his  ancestors  in  old  times,  and  formed  the  design  of  seiz- 
ing by  force  Connaught  and  the  monarchy  of  all  Ireland. 
With  a  view  to  this,  he  sought  a  private  conference  with 
Fitz-Stephen  and  Maurice,  and  having  opened  to  them  all 
that  was  passing  in  his  mind,  received  for  answer  that  what 
he  proposed  could  be  easily  accomplished  if  he  could  procure 
strong  reinforcements  of  English  troops  to  support  his  pre- 
tensions. Thereupon  Dermitius  used  all  manner  of  entreaties 
to  induce  them  to  invite  over  more  numerous  bands  of  their 
kindred  and  countrymen  into  the  island,  and  take  measures 
for  carrying  his  project  into  execution;  and  at  last,  the 
better  to  persuade  them,  he  offered  to  either  of  them  his 
eldest  daughter  in  marriage,  with  the  right  of  succession 
to  his  kingdom.  But  as  it  chanced  that  both  were  already  in 
the  bonds  of  lawful  wedlock,  they  came  at  last,  after  much 
deliberation,  to  the  conclusion  that  Dermitius  should  forth- 
with despatch  messengers  to  earl  Eichard,  who  has  been 


PEEPAEATIONS  OF  EAEL  EICHAED.         205 

mentioned  before  in  chapter  2,  and  to  whom  he  had  for- 
merly promised  to  give  this  daughter  when  he  was  in  Bristol ; 
the  messengers  being  the  bearer  of  a  letter  to  the  following 
effect. 

"  Bermitius,  son  of  Murchard,  prince  of  Leinster,  to 
Richard,  earl  of  Strigul,  son  of  earl  Gilbert,  sends  greeting, 

Tempora  si  numeres  bene  quae  numeramus  egentes, 
Non  venit  ante  suum  nostra  querela  diem. 

Were  you,  like  those  who  wait  your  aid,  to  count  the  weary  days, 
You  would  not  wonder  that  I  chide  these  Hngering  delays. 

"We  have  watched  the  storks  and  swallows ;  the  summer 
birds  have  come,  and  are  gone  again  with  the  southerly 
wind ;  but  neither  winds  from  the  east  nor  the  west  have 
brought  us  your  much  desired  and  long  expected  presence. 
Let  your  present  activity  make  up  for  this  delay,  and  prove 
by  your  deeds  that  you  have  not  forgotten  your  engage- 
ments, but  only  deferred  their  performance.  The  whole  of 
Leinster  has  been  already  recovered,  and  if  you  come  in 
time  with  a  strong  force,  the  other  four  parts  of  the  king- 
dom will  be  easily  united  to  the  fifth.  You  will  add  to  the 
favour  of  your  coming  if  it  be  speedy  ;  it  will  turn  out 
famous  if  it  be  not  delayed,  and  the  sooner,  the  better  wel- 
come. The  wound  in  our  regards  which  has  been  partly 
caused  by  neglect  will  be  healed  by  your  presence ;  for 
friendship  is  secured  by  good  offices,  and  grows  by  benefits 
to  greater  strength." 

Earl  Eichard  having  heard  these  tidings,  and,  after  taking 
much  counsel,  being  encouraged  by  Fitz-Stephen's  success, 
of  which  he  had  been  at  first  doubtful,  resolved  on  pursu- 
ing the  same  course  as  the  others  had  done  ;  and,  bending 
every  effort  towards  one  object,  on  which  his  most  earnest 
desire  was  set,  he  made  all  kinds  of  preparations  for  the 
conquest  of  Ireland.     This  earl  was  descended  from  a  very 

'  See  before,  note  to  chap.  ii.  The  Clares,  notwithstanding  their 
high  Uneage  and  great  alliances,  had  not  been  a  prosperous  family. 
For  joining  in  the  league  of  the  disaffected  nobles,  king  Stephen  seized 
their  castles  in  Kent  and  Sussex  {Gesta  Stephani,  B.  ii.) ;  and  Henry  I. 
stripped  this  earl  Richard  of  his  father's  inheritance,  and  refused 
him  that  of  his  nephews  ;  so  that  he  had  great  titles  with  smaU 
means. 


206  THE    CONQUEST    OF    lEELAIfD. 

noble  stock,  being  of  the  famous  race  of  the  Clares :  but  hie 
name  was  greater  than  his  means,  his  descent  than  his  ta- 
lents, his  rights  of  inheritance  than  his  property  in  posses- 
sion,^ He  addressed  himself,  therefore,  to  Henry  II.,  king 
of  England,  and  earnestly  prayed  and  entreated  him  that  he 
would  either  put  him  in  possession  of  the  lands  which 
justly  belonged  to  him  by  right  of  inheritance,  or  grant 
him  licence  to  seek  his  fortune,  trusting  to  fate,  in  foreign 
countries. 

CHAPTEE  XIII. 

THE     COMINa     OVEE     OF     EATMON^D,   AND     DEFEAT     OF    THE 
MEN    OF    WATEEFOED    AT    DUNDTJNOLF. 

Having  obtained  the  king's  licence,  although  it  was  given 
in  jest  rather  than  in  earnest,  earl  Richard,  suffering  the 
winter  to  elapse,  sent  forward  to  Ireland  about  the  calends 
(the  first)  of  May,  a  young  man  of  his  own  household, 
whose  name  was  Raymond,^  with  ten  men-at-arms  and 
seventy  archers.  He  was  a  brave  and  stout  soldier,  expert 
in  the  practice  of  arms,  and  nephew  both  of  Eitz-Stephen 
and  Maurice,  being  the  son  of  their  elder  brother.  Land- 
ing at  the  rock  of  Dundunolf,^  which  lies  on  the  sea-coast, 
about  four  miles  from  Waterford,  and  to  the  south  of  Wex- 
ford, they  threw  up  a  rather  slight  fortification,  made  of  turf 
and  boughs  of  trees.  The  townsmen  of  "Waterford,  and  with 
them  Mac  Lacheline  of  Ophelan  (Offaly),  quickly  received 
intelligence  of  their  arrival,  and  suspecting  mischief  from  the 
neighbourhood  of  such  strangers,  they  held  a  council,  and 
thinking  it  best  to  nip  the  evil  in  the  bud,  resolved  on 

^  Other  historians  call  him  Eaymond-le-Q-ros,  which  answers  to  our 
author's  description  of  his  x)erson  in  B.  ii.  c.  9.  Thi'oughout  this  his- 
tory, in  which  he  plays  so  distinguished  a  part,  and  perhaps  shines  the 
most,  he  is  simply  called  Raymond.  But  he  was  a  Fitzgerald,  being 
the  youngest  son  of  WiUiam  Fitzgerald,  the  elder  brother  of  Mam'ice 
and  the  bishop,  and  therefore  nephew,  by  the  half-blood,  to  Eobert 
Fitz -Stephen.     See  the  Pedigree. 

^  Dundonolf,  or  Dundrone,  is  a  rocky  promontory  on  the  coast, 
about  eight  miles  from  Waterford  and  twelve  from  Wexford.  A  strong 
castle  was  afterwards  erected  on  the  spot  where  Raymond's  hastily  for- 
tified camp  stood. 


EATMOIfD's    VICTOET    AT    DUNDUNOLP  207 

marching  out  in  a  body  against  them.  Mustering,  there- 
fore, about  three  thousand  men,  they  crossed  the  river  Suir, 
which  runs  under  the  walls  of  the  town  on  the  east  side,  di- 
viding Desmonia  [Munster]  from  Leinster,  and  being  formed 
into  three  bodies,  boldly  marched  up  to  the  intrenchments, 
prepared  to  make  the  assault.^ 

But  it  is  scarcely  possible  that  courage  will  not  shew 
itself,  or  the  ardour  of  valour  be  extinguished  or  daunted ; 
and  therefore,  Eaymond  and  his  followers,  inferior  as  they 
were  in  numbers,  with  surpassing  gallantry  sallied  forth  to 
meet  their  assailants  and  engaged  in  the  too  unequal  con- 
flict. Their  small  band  of  soldiers  was,  however,  unable  to 
resist  the  attack  of  the  multitudes  to  which  they  were  op- 
posed ;  and  retreating  to  their  camp,  they  were  so  hotly 
pursued  by  the  enemy,  that  some  of  them  entered  pell-mell 
with  the  fugitives  before  the  barricade  could  be  closed. 

Eaymond,  perceiving  the  strait  to  which  his  party  w^as 
reduced,  and,  in  short,  that  the  peril  was  imminent,  faced 
about  boldly,  and  cut  down  with  his  sword,  on  the  very 
threshold,  the  foremost  of  the  enemy  who  were  forcing  an 
entrance.  Thus  nobly  retracing  his  steps,  while  he  dealt  a 
terrible  blow,  and  shouted  his  war-cry,  he  encouraged  his 
followers  to  stand  on  their  defence,  and  struck  terror  into 
the  enemies'  ranks. 

Thus,  in  the  ever-doubtful  fortune  of  war,  those  who  to 
all  appearance  were  conquered,  became  in  a  moment  the 
victors ;  and  the  enemy  took  to  flight,  and,  dispersing  them- 
selves over  the  country,  were  pursued  and  slaughtered  in 
such  numbers  that  upwards  of  five  hundred  quickly  fell  by 
the  sword ;  and  when  the  pursuers  ceased  striking  from  sheer 
weariness,  they  threw  vast  numbers  from  the  edge  of  the 
cliffs  into  the  sea  underneath. 

In  this  engagement  a  certain  man-at-arms,  whose  name 
was  William  Ferrand,  exhibited  undaunted  courage.  His 
body  was  weak,  but  his  spirit  resolute  ;  for  being  diseased 
with  leprosy,  which  threatened  his  life,  he  sought  to  anti- 

^  It  must  be  recollected  that  the  townsmen  of  Waterford  and  other 
Irish  sea-ports  were  Norwegian  settlers,  who  not  only  inherited  the  old 
Northern  blood,  but  were  better  armed  and  organized  than  the  natives. 
Indeed,  they  appear  to  have  opposed  the  only  reaUy  formidable 
%ace  to  the  invaders. 


208  THE  CONQrEST  OP  lEELAND. 

cipate  the  effects  of  a  disease  by  a  premature,  though  glo« 
rious,  death. 

Thus  fell  the  pride  of  Waterford,  thus  its  power  was  lost; 
and  from  hence  began  the  overthrow  of  the  city,  while  the 
hopes  of  the  English  were  raised  and  encouraged,  and  their 
enemies  were  struck  with  terror  and  despair.  It  was  a 
thing  unheard-of  in  those  parts  that  so  great  a  slaughter 
should  be  made  by  so  small  a  band.  But  the  English  abused 
their  good  fortune  by  evil  and  detestable  counsels  and  inhu- 
man cruelty ;  for  having  gained  the  victory,  they  kept 
seventy  of  the  principal  townsmen  prisoners  in  the  camp, 
for  whose  ransom  they  might  have  obtained  the  city  itself 
or  an  immense  sum  of  money.  Hervey  de  Montmaurice, 
who  with  three  men-at  arms  had  joined  them  on  their  first 
landing,  and  Eaymond,  took  opposite  sides  of  the  question 
during  the  deliberations, 

CHAPTEE  XIY. 

eatmond's   speech. 

Eatmokd,  contending  earnestly  for  the  liberation  of  the 
prisoners,  spoke  thus : — "  Brave  comrades,  to  enhance  whose 
glory  their  fortune  and  courage  seem  to  be  enormous,  let 
us  now  consider  what  is  to  be  done  with  our  captives.  Eor 
my  part,  I  see  no  reason  for  showing  any  favour  to  our 
enemies  ;  but  we  must  look  on  these  citizens  now,  not  as 
foes,  but  as  men :  they  are  not  resisting,  but  vanquished, 
who  have  suffered  adverse  fortune  while  defending  their 
country.  Their  enterprise  was  honourable,  and  they  are 
not  to  be  treated  as  thieves,  insurgents,  traitors,  or  free- 
booters. They  are  now  in  such  a  position  that  mercy 
ought  rather  to  be  shown  them  for  example's  sake,  than 
cruelty  to  torture  them.  It  is,  indeed,  a  difficult  thing,  as 
was  practised  in  old  time,  to  moderate  prosperity,  when 
spirits  are  apt  to  be  extravagant  and  unruly,  by  submission 
to  some  disagreeable  occurrences.  Let  our  clemency,  there- 
fore, procure  for  us  the  noble  distinction  that  we  who  have 
conquered  others  can  conquer  our  own  fury  and  wrath.  It 
is  the  part  of  temperance  and  moderation  to  check  precipi- 
tate resolutions,  and  soothe  angry  passions.      How  worthy 


SPEECH   OF   HEEVET.  20S 

ie  it  of  a  great  man,  in  tlie  midst  of  his  triumphs,  to  count 
it  for  sufficient  revenge,  that  vengeance  is  in  his  power. 

"  Julius  Caesar,  for  whose  victories  the  world  was  not  large 
enough,  when  in  the  possession  of  unbounded  power,  caused 
only  one  man,  Domitius,  to  be  put  to  death,  and  him  he  had 
before  pardoned,  when  his  life  was  at  stake.  How  inhuman, 
how  brutal  is  that  cruelty,  when  mercy  does  not  follow  vic- 
tory !  It  is  the  part  of  a  brave  man  to  consider  those  as 
his  enemies  with  whom  he  is  contending  for  victory,  but  to 
consider  the  vanquished  as  fellow-men  ;  that  while  courage 
brings  war  to  an  end,  humanity  may  add  to  the  blessings  of 
peace.  Mercy  is,  therefore,  much  more  worthy  of  a  noble 
man  than  victory  ;  the  one  is  a  virtue,  the  other  the  effect  of 
fortune.  Had  these  men  fallen  by  our  swords  in  battle, 
doubtless  that  would  have  augmented  our  success  and  added 
to  our  glory  ;  but  as  they  were  made  prisoners,  their  lives 
were  granted,  and  they  have  been  readmitted  from  the  rank 
of  our  enemies  to  the  common  fellowship  of  men,  it  would 
be  a  great  stain  on  our  honour,  and  bring  us  to  great  dis- 
grace, if  we  were  now  to  inflict  on  them  the  punishment  of 
death.  Since,  therefore,  their  execution  will  not  give  us 
possession  of  the  country,  their  ransom,  which  will  at  once 
augment  the  resources  of  the  troops,  and  be  an  example  of 
virtue,  must  be  thought  preferable  to  their  death.  It  is, 
indeed,  the  duty  of  a  soldier,  fighting  in  battle,  with  the 
helmet  on  his  head,  to  thirst  for  blood,  to  give  no  quarter, 
to  think  of  nothing  but  cutting  down  his  enemy,  and  with 
more  than  brutal  ferocity  to  be  inexorable  in  all  his  acts  ; 
but  when  the  tumult  of  battle  is  ended,  and  he  has  put  ofl 
his  armour,  his  fierceness  should  also  be  laid  aside,  humanity 
should  then  take  its  place,  pity  actuate  a  noble  mind,  and 
gentle  feelings  revive." 

CHAPTEE   XY. 

THE    SPEECH    OE    HEEYET. 

jRATMOifD  having  concluded  his  discourse,  which  was  re- 
ceived by  a  murmur  of  applause  from  the  people,  Hervey 
stood  up,  and  addressing  the  chiefs,  thus  began  : — "  Eay- 
mond  has  discoursed  to  us  very  cleverly  concerning  mercy, 

p 


210  THE  CONQUEST  OF  lEELAKB 

and  perhaps  has  shewn  us  what  is  passing  in  his  mind  in 
well-set  phrases  ;  as  if  a  foreign  land  was  to  be  subdued  by 
merciful  deeds  rather  than  by  fire  and  sword.  Was  that 
the  way  by  which  Julius  Caesar  and  Alexander  of  Macedon 
conquered  the  world  ?  Did  the  nations  voluntarily  flock 
together  from  all  parts  to  such  spectacles  of  mercy,  or  were 
they  not  rather  compelled  to  submit  to  the  yoke  by  force 
of  arms  and  the  terrors  of  cruelty  ?  "While  people  are  yet 
proud  and  rebellious,  they  must  be  subdued  by  all  manner 
of  means,  without  regard  to  feelings  of  pity ;  but  when 
they  have  submitted,  and  are  ready  to  obey,  then  they  may 
be  treated  with  all  kindness,  so  that  due  order  be  taken  for 
their  government.  In  this  case  mercy  may  be  shewn,  in 
the  other  cruelty ;  in  the  one  there  is  room  for  pity — the 
other  only  admits  of  severity.  Raymond  argues  with  won- 
derful mildness,  as  if  we  had  already  subjugated  these  na- 
tions, and  we  had  only  to  do  with  treating  them  kindly,  or 
as  if  our  enemies  were  so  few,  that,  with  such  valour  as 
ours,  it  matters  not  that  we  augment  their  numbers,  whereas 
the  whole  population  of  Ireland  are  leagued  for  our  de- 
struction, and  not  without  reason.  He  seems  to  me  to  be 
inconsistent,  and  contradicts  himself.  He  comes  here  to 
conquer  and  subdue  the  people,  and  he  reasons  in  favour  of 
sparing  them.  What  a  specimen  of  false  pity  he  exhibits 
when  he  persuades  us  to  neglect  our  own  safety,  and  to  be 
moved  to  tenderness  at  the  calamities  of  our  enemies. 
Besides,  we  have  already  more  enemies  than  guards  in  our 
camp ;  we  are  surrounded  with  perils  on  every  side ;  is  it 
not  enough  that  we  are  exposed  to  them  from  without,  and 
must  we  also  have  them  within  ?  Outside  our  trenches  the 
enemy's  host  is  innumerable,  within  there  are  numbers  who 
plot  our  destruction. 

What  if  it  should  happen  that  the  prisoners  should  break 
their  bonds,  which  are  but  weak,  and  suddenly  seize  our 
arms  ?  The  mouse  is  in  the  pouch,  the  fire  in  the  home, 
the  snake  in  the  bosom  ;  the  foe  in  quarters  where  he 
is  likely  to  shew  small  courtesy  to  his  host.  Tell  me,  I 
pray  you,  whetlier  Raymond's  acts  are  not  inconsistent  with 
his  words.  Let  him  answer  me  whether,  if  the  enemy  should 
advance  to  storm  our  camp,  and  by  any  chance  should  sue- 


THE    CAPTTTEE   OF   WATEEITOED.  211 

ceod,  they  would  deal  mercifully  with  us  ?  "Would  they  al- 
low the  vanquished  to  purchase  their  lives  ?  Would  any 
ransom  induce  them  to  release  the  captives  ?  But  there  is 
no  need  of  multiplying  words  when  the  thing  is  plain.  We 
must  so  employ  our  victory  that  the  death  of  these  men 
may  strike  terror  into  others,  and  that,  taking  warning  from 
their  example,  a  wild  and  rebellious  people  may  beware  of 
encountering  us  again.  Of  two  things,  we  must  make 
choice  of  one :  we  must  either  resolutely  accomplish  what 
we  have  undertaken,  and  stifling  all  emotions  of  pity, 
utterly  subjugate  this  rebellious  nation  by  the  strong  hand 
and  the  power  of  our  arms,  or  yielding  to  indulging  in  deeds 
of  mercy,  as  Raymond  proposes,  set  sail  homewards,  and 
leave  both  the  country  and  patrimony  to  this  miserable 
people." 

Hervey's  opinion  was  approved  by  his  comrades,  and  the 
wretched  captives,  as  men  condemned,  had  their  limbs 
broken,  and  were  cast  headlong  into  the  sea,  and  drowned. 

CHAPTEE  XYI. 

THE    AEEIYAL    OF    THE    EARL,  AND    THE    CAPTUEE    OF 
WATEEFOED. 

Meanwhile  earl  Eichard,  having  prepared  all  things  ne- 
cessary for  so  great  an  enterprise,  took  his  journey  to  St 
David's  along  the  coast  of  South  "Wales,"  adding  to  his 
numbers  picked  youths  from  the  districts  through  which  he 
passed.  When  all  was  ready  for  the  important  voyage,  he 
betook  himself  to  the  port  of  Milford,  and  embarking  there 
with  about  two  hundred  men-at-arms,  and  other  troops  to 
the  number  of  a  thousand,  sailed  over  to  Waterford  with  a 
fair  wind,  and  landed  there  on  the  tenth  of  the  calends  of 
September  [the  23rd  of  August],  being  the  eve  of  the  feast 
of  St.  Bartholomew.     On  the  morrow  of  the  feast,  being 

^  The  earl,  proceeding  from  his  castles  of  Chepstow  and  Strigul  to 
Milford  Haven,  would  naturally  take  the  road  through  Cardiff,  Swan- 
sea, and  Carmarthen,  subsequently  described  in  the  Itinerary  of  Giral- 
dus.  He  constantly  calls  it  "the  coast-road  through  South  Wales  ;" 
and  it  is  still  described  as  such,  the  other  road  being  tlu-ough  Aberga- 
Teuny  and  Brecon. 


212  THE    COFQIJEST    OT   lEELAND. 

Tuesday,  they  joined  their  forces  to  those  of  Eaymond 
whose  banners  were  already  displayed  against  the  walls  oi 
the  town,  and  advanced  together  to  make  the  assault.  But 
having  been  twice  repulsed  by  the  townsmen,  and  the  rest 
who  had  escaped  the  slaughter  at  Dundunolf,  Eaymond, 
discovering  a  little  house  of  timber  standing  upon  a  post, 
outside  the  wall,  to  which  it  also  hung,  loudly  called  on  the 
assailants  from  all  quarters  to  renew  the  assault,  and  sent 
men  in  armour  to  hew  down  the  post.  As  soon  as  it  was 
done,  the  house  fell,  and  carried  with  it  a  great  piece  of  the 
wall,  and  the  assailants  entering  manfully  through  the  breach, 
rushed  into  the  town,  and  slaughtering  the  citizens  in  heaps 
along  the  streets,  gained  a  very  bloody  victory.  The  two 
Sytaracs  being  taken  in  the  tower  called  Reginald's  tower,^ 
were  put  to  the  sword,  but  Reginald  and  Machlachelin  of 
Ophelan,  being  also  taken  prisoners  in  the  same  place,  their 
lives  were  spared  through  the  intervention  of  Dermitius, 
who  just  then  came  up  with  Maurice  and  Fitz-Stephen,  as 
well  as  Raymond.  A  garrison  was  placed  in  the  town,  and 
the  daughter  of  Dermitius,  called  Eva,  having  been  then 
given  to  the  earl  by  her  father,  and  their  marriage  solem- 
nized, according  to,  and  in  confirmation  of,  the  treaty  be- 
fore made,^  the  whole  army  marched  towards  Dublin,  with 
banners  displayed. 

'■  Reginald's  Tower  stood  at  an  angle  of  the  old  city  walls  of  Water- 
ford,  where  it  is  still  to  be  seen,  in  good  preservation.  The  tower  is 
round,  and  of  rude  but  massive  construction,  and  a  curious  relic  of  the 
architecture  of  the  Ostmen  or  Norwegians,  by  whom  it  was  built  to 
defend  their  mercantile  colony  at  Waterford.  Reginald  (Eegnald), 
who  was  taken  prisoner  in  it,  was  the  chief  magistrate,  ruler,  or  king  of 
that  people  in  Waterford.  The  two  Sytaracs  (Sihtrics  or  Sygtre)  appear 
from  their  names  to  have  belonged  to  that  hardy  and  enterprising  race. 
They  seem  to  have  held  out  to  the  last  in  the  tower,  their  principal 
stronghold. 

2  It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  remark  that  the  marriage  of  the  earl 
Strongbow  with  Eva  forms  one  of  the  subjects,  illustrative  of  the  na- 
tional history,  selected  for  fi-esco  paintings  on  the  waUs  of  the  new 
palace  at  Westminster. 


BIEGE    OF    THE    C.TY    OF    DUBLIN".  213 

CHAPTEE  XVII. 

SIEGE    AND    SUEEENDEE    OF    THE    CITY    OF    DUELIIf. 

Deemitius  having  received  intelligence  that  the  citizens  of 
Dublin  had  summoned  the  people  from  all  parts  of  Ireland 
to  succour  them  in  defending  the  place,  and  that  all  the 
roads  through  the  woods  and  other  difficult  passes  were  beset 
with  armed  men,  was  careful  to  avoid  his  father's  mischance, 
and  leading  his  army  by  the  ridges  of  the  mountains  of 
Glyndelachan  (Glendalough)/  he  conducted  it  in  safety  to 
the  walls  of  the  city.  Dermitius  had  a  mortal  hatred  for  the 
citizens  of  Dublin,  and  not  without  reason ;  for  they  had 
murdered  his  father,  while  sitting  in  the  hall  of  the  house 
of  one  of  the  chief  men,  which  he  used  for  his  court  of  jus- 
tice ;  and  they  added  insult  to  the  foul  deed  by  burying  his 
corpse  with  a  dog. 

Now,  however,  on  their  sending  envoys  to  Dermitius,  and 
through  the  powerful  mediation  of  Laurence,  of  blessed 
memory,  who  was  at  that  time  archbishop   of  Dublin,^  a 

'  See  the  Topography,  Distinct,  ii.  c.  28.  There  appears  to  have 
been  good  strategical  reasons  for  approaching  Dublin  through  the 
movmtainous  districts  of  Wexford  and  Wicklow,  debouching  in  the 
valley  of  Glendalough  ;  as  Dermot  therel)y  not  only  kept  within  his 
own  territories,  but  ovitflanked  the  hostile  septs  of  Ossory  and  Meath, 
who,  combined  with  the  powerful  tribes  in  the  west  of  Ireland,  might 
have  disputed  his  passage  through  the  country  of  woods  and  bogs  which 
lay  in  his  direct  road. 

^  Laurence  O'Toole,  archbishop  of  Dublin,  1162 — 1180>  was  son  of 
Maurice  O'Toole,  petty  prince  of  Smaly.  He  was  educated  at  Glenda- 
lough, which  lay  in  his  father's  territories,  and  frequently  in  after-life  re- 
tired to  its  sacred  recesses.  When  Dublin  was  first  threatened  by  foreign 
invaders,  he  interposed  his  mediation  between  the  citizens  and  Dermot, 
considering  him  probably  as  their  paramount  prince,  though  the  Ostmen 
of  Dubhn  were  in  some  degree  independent.  But  his  patriotic  zeal  after- 
wards induced  him  to  join  the  league  of  the  native  princes  against  the 
rising  power  of  the  Anglo  or  Cambro-Normans,  and  even  to  head  one 
body  of  the  forces  which  laid  siege  to  Dublin.  Finding,  however,  that 
resistance  to  the  English  power  was  hopeless,  and  perhaps  hoping  that 
Lhe  reform  and  advancement  of  the  church,  to  which  Henry  waa 
pledged,  would  be  carried  into  effect,  he  submitted  to  the  English  king. 
Notwithstanding  this,  we  find  in  the  sequel  of  the  History  (B.  ii.  ci. 
23),  that  his  patriotic  conduct  at  the  council  of  Lateran,  towards  th* 
close  of  his  life,  gave  umbrage  to  Henry,  and  that  in  consequence  hi- 
found  a  grave  in  a  foreign  land. 


214  THE    CONQTJEST   OF    IRELAND. 

fcruce  was  agreed  upon,  during  which  the  terms  of  a  tre^ity 
of  peace  might  be  settled.  Notwithstanding  this,  Ray- 
moTid  on  one  side  of  the  city,  and  on  the  other  a  brave 
soldier,  whose  name  was  Milo  de  Cogan,  (of  whom  we  shall 
speak  further  in  the  21st  chapter),  rushed  to  the  walls  with 
bands  of  youths,  eager  for  the  fight,  and  greedy  of  plunder, 
and  making  a  resolute  assault,  got  possession  of  the  place 
after  a  great  slaughter  of  the  citizens.  The  better  part 
of  them,  however,  under  their  king  Hasculf,^  embarked  in 
ships  and  boats  with  their  most  valuable  effects,  and  sailed 
to  the  northern  islands.^ 

On  the  same  day  two  great  miracles  occurred  in  the  city. 
One  was  that  the  crucifix  which  the  citizens  struggled  hard 
to  carry  away  with  them  to  the  islands  remained  immove- 
ably  fixed ;  the  other,  that  of  the  penny  ofiered  before  it 
having  twice  leapt  back ;  both  of  which  are  related  in  my 
Topography.' 

^  Griraldus  has  informed  us  in  his  Topography  (Distinct,  iii.  c.  43), 
that  the  Ostmen,  who  were  Danes  and  Norwegians,  but  pi-incipally  the 
latter,  founded  colonies  in  Dublin,  Waterford,  and  other  places,  on  the 
coast  of  Ireland,  including  Limerick  and  Cork,  ostensibly  for  the  pur- 
pose of  trade,  but  that  they  soon  surrounded  their  towns  with  strong 
foi'tifications,  and  became  formidable  to  the  native  princes.  We  also 
find  from  vai'ious  indications  in  our  author,  and  from  other  sources, 
that  their  numbers  were  very  considerable,  and  that  they  formed,  as  in 
England,  separate  communities  under  their  own  laws,  and  kings  of 
their  own  race,  of  whom  there  are  records  of  a  succession  dm*ing  three 
centuries  from  Anlaf  or  Olaf,  the  first  king  of  Dublin  mentioned  by 
Giraldus,  to  Ansculf  or  Asgal,  whom  we  here  find  opposing  the  En- 
glish, and  in  Waterford  from  Sihtric,  who  was  contemporary  with  Anlaf, 
to  Reginald  or  Regnald,  who  is  referred  to  in  a  preceding  chapter. 
These  Scandinavian  kings  in  Ireland,  particularly  those  of  Dublin,  gra- 
dually extended  their  power,  not  only  by  their  arms,  taking  advantage 
of  the  intestine  divisions  of  the  Irish  princes,  but  by  forming  alliances 
and  intermarriages  with  them. 

"  All  the  islands  on  the  north  and  west  of  Scotland,  and  as  far 
south  as  the  Isle  of  Man,  were  at  this  time  occupied  by  Norwegian  co- 
lonies, with  which  theu*  countrymen  in  Ireland  had  frequent  commu- 
nications, both  political  and  commercial.  It  was  therefore  perfectly 
natural  that  Asgal  and  his  people,  when  driven  out  by  the  united  forces 
of  Dermot  and  the  English,  should  take  refuge  in  the  Isles,  and  ob- 
taining reinforcements,  return  thence  with  the  powerful  armament  by 
which  they  endeavovired  to  regain  then-  ascendancy  in  Dublin  j  as  w« 
find  in  chap.  21. 

3  Distinct,  ii.  cc.  45,  46. 


THE    SYNOD    Or    AEMAGH.  215 

The  earl  then,  having  spent  a  few  days  in  settling  order 
in  the  city,  left  Milo  de  Cogan  there  as  constable,  and  at 
the  instigation  of  Mac  Murchard,  who  had  not  forgotten 
an  ancient  feud  with  O'Eoric,  king  of  Meath,  made  a  hos- 
tile irruption  into  the  territories  of  that  prince,  and  the 
whole  of  Meath  was  plundered  and  laid  waste  with  fire  and 
sword. 

Eoderic,  king  of  Connaught,  perceiving  that  he  was  in 
jeopardy,  "  when  his  neighbour's  house  was  on  fire,"  sent 
envoys  to  Dermitius,  with  this  message :  "  Contrary  to  the 
conditions  of  our  treaty  of  peace,  you  have  invited  a  host  of 
foreigners  into  this  island,  and  yet,  as  long  as  you  kept  within 
the  bounds  of  Leinster,  we  bore  it  patiently.  But  now, 
forasmuch  as,  regardless  of  your  solemn  oaths,  and  having 
no  concern  for  the  fate  of  the  hostage  you  gave,  you  have 
broken  the  bounds  agreed  on,  and  insolently  crossed  the 
frontiers  of  your  own  territory ;  either  restrain  in  future 
the  irruptions  of  your  foreign  bands,  or  I  will  certainly 
have  your  son's  head  cut  off,  and  send  it  to  you."  Der- 
mitius, having  received  this  message,  made  an  arrogant 
reply,  adding  also  that  he  would  not  desist  from  the  enter- 
prise he  had  undertaken,  until  he  had  reduced  Connaught 
to  subjection,  which  he  claimed  as  his  ancient  inheritance, 
and  obtained  with  it  the  monarchy  of  the  whole  of  Ireland. 
Eoderic  was  so  indignant  at  this  reply,  that  he  caused 
the  son  of  Dermitius,  who  had  been  delivered  to  him  for 
an  hostage  (as  mentioned  before,  chap.  10),  to  be  put  to 
death. 

CHAPTEE  XYIII. 

THE    SYNOD    OE   ARMAGH. 

After  these  events,  a  synod  of  all  the  clergy  of  Ireland  was 
convoked  at  Armagh,  in  which  the  arrival  of  the  foreigners 
in  the  island  was  the  subject  of  long  debates  and  much  de- 
liberation. At  length  it  was  unanimously  resolved,  that  it 
appeared  to  the  synod  that  the  Divine  vengeance  had 
brought  upon  them  this  severe  judgment  for  the  sins  of  the 
people,  and  especially  for  this,  that  they  had  long  been  wont 
to  purchase  natives  of  England  as  well  from  traders  as  from 


216  THE    COIfQUEST    OF    lEELJl??^!). 

robbers  and  pirates,  and  reduce  tbem  to  slavery  ;  and  that 
now  they  also,  by  reciprocal  justice,  were  reduced  to  servi- 
tude by  that  very  nation.'  I'or  it  was  the  common  practice 
of  the  Anglo-Saxon  people,  while  their  kingdom  was  entire, 
to  sell  their  children,  and  they  used  to  send  their  own  sons 
and  kinsmen  for  sale  in  Ireland,  at  a  time  when  they  were 
not  suffering  from  poverty  or  famine.  Hence  it  might  well 
be  believed  that  by  so  enormous  a  sin  the  buyers  had  justly 
merited  to  undergo  the  yoke  of  servitude,  as  the  sellers 
lad  done  in  former  times.  It  was  therefore  decreed  by  the 
jefore-mentioned  synod,  and  proclaimed  publicly  by  uni- 
/ersal  accord,  that  all  Englishmen  throughout  the  island  who 
were  in  a  state  of  bondage  should  be  restored  to  freedom. 


CHAPTEE  XIX. 

THE    PEOCLAMATION   OF    THE    KING    OF    E2TGLAl!fD, 

"Repoets  having  been  spread  abroad  of  these  events,  which 
were  much  exaggerated,  and  the  earl  having  made  himself 
master  not  only  of  Leinster,  but  of  other  territories  to  which 
he  had  no  just  claims  in  right  of  his  wife,  the  king  of  Eng- 
iand  made  a  proclamation  that  in  future  no  ship  sailing 
from  any  part  of  his  dominions  should  carry  any  thing  to 
Ireland,  and  that  all  his  subjects  who  had  been  at  any  time 
conveyed  there  should  return  before  the  ensuing  Easter,  on 
pain  of  forfeiting  all  their  lands,  and  being  banished  from 
the  kingdom  for  ever. 

The  earl  finding  himself  in  great  straits,  and  that  his 
followers  were  much  cast  down  at  the  loss  of  reinforcements 
and  the  want  of  necessary  supplies,  after  consulting  his 
friends,  dispatched  Raymond  to  the  king,  who  was  then  in 
the  most  distant  parts  of  Aquitaine,  with  the   following 

1  The  existence  of  a  considerable  slave-trade  among  the  Anglo-Saxons 
is  a  well-known  fact.  According  to  William  of  Malmsbury,  book  iii., 
c.  1,  Bristol  was  a  great  mart  for  this  trade,  from  whence,  no  doubt, 
the  unfortunate  victims  were  transported  to  Ireland  ;  but  the  traffic  was 
considerably  diminished,  if  not  suppressed,  by  the  zealous  exertions  of 
Wulstan,  bishop  of  Worcester,  who  died  a.d.  1095.  Yet,  according 
to  this  statement  of  Gii-aldus,  it  must  have  continued  after  that  time. 


THE    MAETYRDOM    OF    ST.    THOMAS.  217 

letter:  "My  lord  and  king,  It  was  with  your  licence,  as  I 
understood,  that  T  came  over  to  Ireland  for  the  purpose  of 
aiding  your  faithful  vassal  Dermitius  in  the  recovery  of  Ilia 
territories.  AYhatever  lauds,  therefore,  I  have  had  the  good 
fortune  to  acquire  in  this  country,  either  in  right  of  his 
patrimony,  or  from  any  other  person,  I  consider  to  be 
owing  to  your  gracious  favour,  and  I  shall  hold  them  at 
your  free  disposal." 


CHAPTER  XX. 

THE    MARTYRDOM    OF    ST.  THOMAS. 

Haymofd  pursuing  his  journey  and  having  arrived  at  court 
with  the  earl's  letter,  the  king  received  him  with  great  cold 
ness,  and  being  as  usual  much  occupied  with  business, 
deferred  his  reply. 

About  that  time,  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  in 
England,  perished  by  the  hands  of  impious  men,  to  the  dis- 
may of  the  great  men  of  the  realm,  both  lay  and  clerical;  after 
having  undergone  the  sufferings  of  banishment  for  nearly 
seven  years  in  much  grief,  wearing  sackcloth  on  every  part 
of  his  body,  and  giving  himself  up  to  reading  and  prayer, 
besides,  the  most  severe  of  all  afflictions,  a  grievous  proscrip- 
tion which  spared  no  one,  of  whatever  age  or  sex,  his  mar- 
tyrdom at  last  filled  up  the  measure  of  his  sufferings  and 
glory.  He  himself  threw  open  the  doors  of  the  sanctuary 
to  his  furious  enemies,  and  meeting  boldly  their  drawn 
swords,  bowed  his  consecrated  head  to  their  violence.  This 
took  place  in  the  mother  and  metropolitan  church,  and 
before  the  altar.  There  he  received  four  wounds  on  the 
crown  of  his  head,  the  shaven  crown  which  used  to  be  re- 
garded as  a  token  of  the  protection  due  to  the  clergy, 
inflicted  by  four  brutal  retainers  of  the  court,  with  more 
than  brutal  rage.^  The  illustrious  soldier  and  martyr  of 
Christ  was  thus  distinguished  by  intrepidly  suffering  in  that 
part  of  the  body  which  betokened  Christ's  sufferings  during 
his  passion,  and  exchanged  a  corruptible  for  an  incorruptible 
crown.     He  also  hallowed  the  holy  week  of  Christmas  by 

'  A  quatiior  aulicis  canihus^  rabie  plusquam  canina  ^urentibns. 


218  THE   CONQUEST   OF   IEELAIS"D. 

then  shedding  Ms  blood ;  and  as  the  fifth  day  before  Christ- 
mas is  consecrated  to  the  memory  of  the  first  Thomas,  so  the 
second  Thomas  shed  glory  on  the  fifth  day  after  Christmas.* 
The  one  was  the  light  of  the  East,  the  other  of  the  "West ; 
one  illuminated  the  infant  church,  the  other  the  church  of 
the  latter  days ;  and  as  the  one  cemented  the  foundations 
of  the  rising  church  with  his  blood,  so  the  other,  by  shed- 
ding his  blood,  renewed  the  primitive  virtues,  and  restored 
the  edifice  which  in  the  lapse  of  so  many  ages  had  fallen  to 
decay  by  the  injuries  of  time,  and  the  violence  of  the  storms 
to  which  it  had  been  exposed.  The  first  Thomas  was  actu- 
ated by  an  ardent  faith,  the  second  was  more  than  fervent 
when  faith  was  now  growing  old.  The  one  submitted  to 
cruel  torments  while  erecting  the  frame  of  the  church,  the 
other  did  not  shrink  from  meeting  death  in  order  to  preserve 
that  frame  uninjured.  His  triumphant  claims  to  such  glory 
are  well  summed  up  in  the  two  following  verses  : 

Pro  Christi  sponsa,  Christi  sub  tempore,  Christi 
In  templo  Christi  verus  amator  obit. 

In  Christ  church,  and  at  Christmas  tide, 

For  Christ's  spouse,  Christ's  true  servant  died. 

Among  his  numerous  miracles,  there  was  one  which  was 
very  memorable,  and  is  well  worthy  of  being  mentioned ; 
namely,  the  marvellous  way  in  which  he  restored  organs 
which  had  been  actually  lost;  for  by  this  novel  kind  of 
miracle  it  plainly  appeared  that  he  was  a  new  martyr. 
Hence  some  one  has  said, 

Miratur  rediisse  virum  neutratus,  ocelli 
Succedunt  ocuhs,  albus  hie,  ille  uiger. 

In  order  that  no  caviller  might  object  that  they  were  the 
same  eyes  which  the  sufferer  had  before,  and  to  shew  that  they 
were  not  merely  injured  but  actually  plucked  out,  the  new 
organs  of  sight  were  smaller  and  of  a  different  colour,  and 
had  the  power  of  seeiug  not  only  in  the  light  of  day,  but  in 
the  dark. 

This  grain  of  wheat  falling  on  the  ground  produced  an 

^  The  feast  of  St.  Thomas,  the  apostle,  is  held  on  the  21st  December, 
and  that  of  St.  Thomas  a  Becket  on  the  29th  December. 


OTEETHEOW    OF    THE    DAlS^ES    AT    DTJBLIN.  219 

abundant  harvest.  St.  Thomas  was  cut  off  in  the  foi*tj- 
eighth  year  of  his  age,  the  eighth  of  his  consecration,  and 
the  seventh  of  his  exile ;  finishing  his  course  happily  to- 
wards the  close  of  December,  and  thus  ending  his  life  with 
the  year,  and  entering  on  a  new  life  in  the  year  of  our  Lord 
1171,  when  Alexander  was  pope  of  Eome,  Frederick  was 
emperor,  and  Louis,  king  of  France.  Hence  some  one 
says  : 

Annus  millenus  centenus  septiiagenus 

Primus  erat,  primas  quo  ruit  ense  Thomas. 
"  In  the  year  one  thousand  one  hundred  and  seventy- one,  the  primate 
Thomas  fell  by  the  sword." 

Meanwhile,  when  the  winter  was  passed,  Dermitius  mac 
Murchard  died  at  Ferns,  full  of  years,  on  the  calends  (the 
first)  of  May. 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

THE  OVEETHEOW  OE  THE  DANES  AT  DUBLIN". 

At  this  time,  about  the  feast  of  "Whitsuntide,  Hasculf,  who 
had  been  king  of  Dublin,  sailed  into  the  Liffy  with  sixty 
ships  full  of  Norwegians  and  men  of  the  isles,^  and  burning 
with  revenge  for  his  former  discomfiture.  Landing  from 
their  ships,  in  all  haste,  they  sat  down  before  the  east  gate 
of  the  city,  prepared  to  assault  it.  They  were  under  the  com- 
mand of  John  the  "Woode,  or  John  the  Mad,  for  such  is  the 
signification  of  the  word,  and  were  all  warriors,  armed  in  the 
Dauish  fashion,  some  having  long  breast-plates,  and  others 
shirts  of  mail ;  their  shields  were  round,  and  coloured  red,- 
and  were  bound  about  with  iron.  They  were  iron-hearted 
as  well  as  iron-armed  men. 
Milo  de  Cogan,^  who  was  then  governor  of  the  city,  with 

'  See  note  3,  c.  xvii. 

2  We  find  in  Ordericus  Yitalis  (B.  x.  c.  7),  that  when  the  expedition  of 
Magnus,  king  of  Norway,  appeared  off  the  Welsh  coast  in  the  eleventh 
century,  a  red  shield  was  hoisted  at  the  mast-head  of  the  admiral's 
ship.  Eed  was  not  only  the  national  colour  of  the  Scandinavian 
nations,  but  of  the  kindred  Anglo-Norman  race,  and  so  continues  to 
the  present  day,  both  in  Denmark  and  England. 

2  Milo  de  Cogan,  who  is  afterwards  (B.  ii.  c.  10)  called  Milo  of  St. 


220  THE    COFQTJEST    OF    IHELAFD. 

his  natural  intrepidity  boldly  dared  to  march  out  to  attack 
them,  though  his  force  was  unequal  to  theirs.  But  not 
being  able  with  inferior  numbers  to  withstand  the  enemy's 
attack,  he  was  compelled  to  retreat  inside  the  gate,  after 
losing  some  of  his  men,  one  of  whom  had  his  leg  cut  off  by 
a  single  stroke  of  a  battle  axe,  though  it  was  cased  in  iron 
armour  on  both  sides.  At  length,  Richard  de  Cogan, 
Milo's  brother,  sallying  unobserved  from  the  east  postern 
at  the  bead  of  a  small  body  of  troops,  fell  on  the  enemy's 
rear  with  loud  shouts ;  b}^  which  unexpected  and  sudden 
attack  they  were  thrown  into  confusion,  having  to  face 
their  assailants  both  behind  and  before,  and,  such  is  the 
doubtful  fortune  of  war,  were  quickly  routed  and  took  to 
flight. 

They  were  nearly  all  put  to  the  sword,  and  among  them 
John  the  Mad,  who  was  captured  and  slain  by  the  aid  of 
"Walter  de  Eidenesford  and  some  others.  Hasculf  fell  into 
their  hands  while  seeking  to  make  his  escape  over  the  strand 
to  his  ships  ;  and,  to  do  more  honour  to  the  victory,  he  was 
brought  back  in  triumph  to  the  city  of  which  he  had  been  the 
ruler  not  long  before.  He  was  therefore  reserved  for  ransom  ; 
but  being  brought  before  Milo  de  Cogan,  was  imprudent 
enough  to  vent  his  indignation  before  the  crowded  court  in 
these  words  :  "  We  are  come  now,"  he  said,  "  with  a  small 
band,  but  this  is  only  the  commencement  of  our  enterprise ; 
and  if  life  be  spared  me,  it  will  soon  be  followed  by  much 
more  formidable  attempts."  Upon  hearing  this,  Milo 
ordered  him  to  be  beheaded :  for  on  the  tongue  resteth  life 
and  death,  and  God  humbleth  the  proud.  It  is  an  ill 
remedy  for  trouble  to  vent  grief  in  such  a  manner  as  to 

David's,  was  one  of  the  most  distinguished  men  engaged  in  the  con- 
quest of  Ireland,  exhibiting  great  prudence  as  well  as  bravery,  and 
filUng  important  offices.  We  find  that  he  married  a  daugliter  of  Eobert 
Fitz-Stephen,  and  there  is  no  doubt  of  his  having  been  a  Welshman, 
and  he  was  probably  connected  by  blood  with  the  other  adventurers. 
Perhaps  Cogan  is  the  same  name  as  Gwgan  or  Wogan,  belonging  to 
a  family  of  high  standing  in  Pembrokeshire,  where  they  were  lords 
of  Wilton,  and  who  also  acquired  great  eminence  in  Ireland.  The  con- 
jecture is  confirmed  by  finding  that  Sir  John  Wogan,  who  was  chiel 
justice  there  in  the  time  of  Edward  L,  founded  a  chauntry  in  the 
oatliedral  of  St.  David's. 


SIEGE    OF    DUBLIN-.  221 

aggravate  it.  Thus,  Hasculf,  whose  life  had  been  pardoned, 
lost  it  for  an  arrogant  speech. 

CHAPTEE  XXII. 

THE    SIEGE    OP   DUBLIN-   BY    EODEEIC    OF    CONNAUGHT 
A^D    THE    MEIS"    OF    THE    ISLES. 

After  this,  the  Irisli  finding  that  the  resources  of  the 
earl  were  failiag  botli  by  the  loss  of  men  and  scarcity  of 
victuals,  with  which  the  island  had  hitherto  been  plentifully 
supplied  from  England,  the  princes  assembling  their  forces 
from  all  quarters,  laid  siege  to  Dublin,  at  the  head  of  nearly 
all  the  people  of  Ireland.  They  were  moved  to  this,  as  it 
is  reported,  by  the  patriotic  zeal  of  Laurence,  archbishop  of 
Dublin,  who  joined  with  Eoderic,  king  of  Connaught,  in 
sending  letters  to  Grottred,  prince  of  Man,^  and  to  other 
lords  of  the  isles,  inviting  them  to  blockade  the  city  on  the 
sea-side  ;  for  which  good  reasons  were  assigned,  and  ample 
pay  was  promised.  These  princes  were  more  ready  to  en- 
gage in  this  enterprise,  from  the  alarm  they  felt  that  tbe 
successes  of  the  English  were  putting  their  own  indepen- 
dence in  danger,  and  they  therefore  lost  no  time  in  sailing 
with  a  favourable  wind  from  the  east,  in  about  thirty  ships 
full  of  men  trained  to  war,  and  speedily  entered  the  port 
of  AvenlifFy.- 

.  The  earl  and  his  followers  had  now  been  confined  within 
the  walls  of  the  city  for  nearly  two  months,  and  having 
received  no  supplies  of  food,  either  by  laud  or  sea,  were 
in  great  want  of  provisions.  And  as  evil  seldom  comes 
alone,  and  one  misfortune  is  heaped  upon  another,  j  ust  then, 

^  In  1077,  Godred  (Gudrod),  a  Norwegian,  conquered  the  Isle  of 
Man,  and  the  other  Sudreyjar  islands,  which  were  tributary  to  the 
crown  of  Norway,  as  well  as  Dublin  and  great  part  of  Leinster.  This 
occasioned  the  expeditions  of  king  Magnus  Barfod  and  his  son  Sigurd, 
related  in  the  Chronicles  and  Sagas.  Godred  was  deposed,  but  after- 
wards regained  the  Manx  throne,  and  his  successors  reigned  there  till 
the  time  of  Magnus,  the  last  of  his  descendants,  and  the  last  Norwegian 
king  of  Man.  The  reigning  king  of  this  race,  probably  Godred  01a- 
veson,  very  naturally  came  to  the  aid  of  his  countrymen  in  Dublin  on 
this  occasion. 

"  The  mouth  of  the  Liffy — in  fact,  the  b&y  of  Dublin. 


222  THE    CONQUEST   OF   lEELAKD. 

lo !  Duvenald,^  son  of  Dermitius,  arrived  from  Kinsale, 
bringing  intelligence  that  Fitz-Stephen,  with  a  small  force, 
was  beleaguered  in  his  camp  at  Carrig  by  the  townsmen  of 
"Wexford,  joined  by  the  men  of  Kinsale,  to  the  number  of 
about  three  thousand ;  and  that  unless  they  were  succoured 
by  a  strong  body  of  troops  within  three  days,  they  must  sur- 
render at  discretion. 

At  that  time  there  were  with  the  earl,  besieged  within  the 
walls  of  Dublin,  Fitzgerald,  Maurice,  and  Eaymond,  who 
was  just  returned  from  court,  all  of  whom  were  greatly 
troubled  at  the  position  in  which  not  only  themselves,  but 
their  friends,  were  placed.  Maurice,  especially,  much  as  he 
was  concerned  on  his  own  account,  was  still  more  anxious 
for  his  excellent  brother,  Eobert  Fitz-Stephen  and  his  wife 
and  children,  who,  surrounded  by  the  enemy,  were  in  a  very 
ill-fortified  hold,  constructed  of  only  turf  and  stakes.  He 
therefore  rose  and  thus  addressed  the  earl  and  the  other 
chief  commanders. 


CHAPTER  XXni. 

THE    SPEECH    OF    MAURICE    FITZGERALD. 

"  "We  did  not  come  into  this  remote  part  of  the  world  for 
our  pleasure,  and  to  enjoy  repose,  but  to  try  our  fortunes 
and  prove  our  valour  at  the  risk  of  our  lives.  For  awhile 
we  were  in  the  ascendant,  but  now  the  wheel  is  turned,  and 
we  are  in  a  low  estate.  Such  is  the  mutability  of  human 
affairs,  that  prosperity  is  always  chequered  by  adverse  cir- 
cumstances. After  the  day  comes  night,  and  when  the 
night  is  spent  the  day  returns  again.  AYe,  whose  triumphs 
had  gained  us  such  abundance  of  everything  that  a  success- 
ful fortune  could  bestow,  are  now  beleaguered  by  the  enemy 
on  all  sides,  both  by  sea  and  land,  and  our  provisions  have 
failed.  We  get  no  supplies  by  sea,  which  is  commanded  by 
the  enemy's  fleet.  Fitz-Stephen,  likewise,  whose  valour  and 
noble  enterprise  opened  to  us  the  way  into  this  island,  is 

^  O'Donnell  ?  A  natural  son  of  Dermot  mac  Morrough,  as  we  may 
■uppose,  from  his  daughter  Eva  having  conveyed  the  inheritance  of  hu 
territories  to  earl  Strongbow. 


DEFEAT    OF    BODEETC.  223 

shut  up  iu  a  sorry  fortress,  which  is  strictly  watched  by  a 
hostile  people.  "What  then  do  we  look  for  ?  Is  it  suc- 
cour from  our  own  country  that  we  expect  ?  Nay,  such 
is  our  lot,  that  what  the  Irish  are  to  the  English,  we  too, 
being  now  considered  as  Irish,  are  the  same.  The  one 
island  does  not  hold  us  in  greater  detestation  than  the 
other.  Away  then  with  hesitation  and  cowardice,  and  let 
us  boldly  attack  the  enemy,  while  our  short  stock  of  pro- 
visions yet  supplies  us  with  sufficient  strength.  Fortune 
helps  the  brave,  and  a  well-armed  though  scanty  force, 
inured  to  war,  and  animated  by  the  recollection  of  former 
triumphs,  may  yet  crush  this  rude  and  disorderly  rabble." 

Talia  voce  refert,  curisque  ingentibus  seger, 
Spem  simulat  vultu,  preruit  alto  corde  dolorem. 

Maurice  having  finished  his  speech,  Eaymond,  who  shared 
his  anxiety  and  distress,  delivered  his  opinion  to  the  same 
effect ;  and  all  joined  in  approving  it.  He  also  added  that 
they  ought  first  to  attack  the  king  of  Connaught,  as  the 
chief  and  greatest  of  their  enemies ;  for  having  defeated 
him,  they  would  have  little  difficulty  in  dealing  with  the 
other  armies. 


CHAPTEE  XXIY. 

THE    DEFEAT    OF    EODERIC    AT   PUBLIN". 

THEEErpoi^  the  brave  youths  flew  to  arms,  and  their  small 
force,  having  been  divided  into  three  troops,  they  immedi- 
ately arranged  themselves  in  separate  divisions.  In  the 
first  was  Eaymond,  with  twenty  men-at-arms;  in  the 
centre,  Milo,  with  thirty  ;  in  the  third  and  last  were  the 
earl  and  Maurice  with  forty.  Some  horse-soldiers  and  a 
few  citizens  were  joined  to  each  division,  and  besides  these 
a  small  number  were  left  to  guard  the  walls.  After 
some  contention  whether  the  governor  of  the  city  or  the 
commander  of  the  troops  was  entitled  to  lead  in  the  first 
battle,  they  issued  forth  from  the  gates  about  an  hour  after 
nones,  and  this  small  band  fell  boldly  on  the  enemy's  army 
of  thirty  thousand  men,  taking  them  by  surprise*  and  off 


224  THE    CONQUEST    OF    lEELAlN^D. 

tbeir  guard,  for  they  expected  no  attack  at  that  time,  in  con- 
sequence of  some  skirmishes  having  taken  place  in  the 
morning  of  the  same  day.  Eaymond,  ever  first  among  tht 
foremost,  threw  himself  on  the  enemy  long  before  the  rest 
came  up,  and  pierced  two  of  them  through  with  his  lance. 
Meyler  also,  and  the  two  sons  of  Fitz-Maurice,  Gerald  and 
Alexander,  although  they  were  stationed  in  the  last  troop, 
suddenly  rushed  to  the  front,  prompted  by  their  innate 
valour,  and  being  rapidly  followed  by  others  distinguished 
for  their  bravery  and  skill  in  arms,  made  great  slaughter  of 
the  enemy.  Numbers  having  been  slain,  and  the  whole 
army  put  to  the  rout,  Eoderic  himself,  who  was  bathing, 
having  escaped  with  difficulty,  they  pursued  the  vanquished 
fugitives,  putting  them  to  the  sword,  until  the  evening. 
Then  at  length  they  returned  in  triumph  to  the  city,  driving 
before  them  cars  full  of  provisions,  and  loaded  with  arms 
and  other  booty.  The  other  troops  immediately  dispersed, 
as  well  those  of  the  archbishop,  who  were  posted  on  the 
south  side  of  the  city,  as  all  the  forces  of  Leinster,  namely, 
those  of  Machelonus  (Mac  Lachlin),  Machaleney  (Mac  El- 
wyn),  G-illemolmoc,  and  Othnethel,  and  others  also  who 
were  equally  dismayed,  save  only  the  men  of  Kinsale  and 
Wexford.  Likewise  O'Eoric  of  *Meath,  O'Carvel  of  Uriel, 
and  Mac  Saline  of  Ochadese,  who  were  posted  on  the  north 
side,  with  a  vast  multitude,  broke  up  their  camps.  On  the 
morrow,  the  English,  leaving  a  garrison  in  the  city,  unfurled 
their  standards,  and,  flushed  with  victory,  marched  by  the 
upper  road  through  0 drone  towards  Wexford. 


CHAPTEE  XXV. 

FITZ-STEPHEN    IS    TEEACHEEOUSLY    TAKEIS"   PEISOKEE. 

Meanwhile,  as  fortune  is  continually  changing,  and  suc- 
cess always  attended  by  some  adverse  event,  the  men  of 
Wexford  and  Kinsale,  to  the  number  of  about  three  thou- 
sand, regardless  of  their  oaths  and  the  faith  they  had 
pledged,  marched  against  Eitz- Stephen,  and  taking  him 
unawares,  when  he  apprehended  nothing  of  the  kind,  and 
had  only  a  few  men-at-arms  and  archers  to  defend  his  fort, 


DESCElfTION-    OF    TITZ-STEPHEN.  225 

tliey  harassed  him  with  incessant  attacks.  But  finding  that 
ail  their  efforts  were  fruitless,  for  his  men,  though  few,  were 
at  all  times  ready  to  stand  on  their  guard,  and  one  particu- 
larly, whose  name  was  William  Not,  much  distinguished 
hiinself  by  his  brilliant  courage  in  this  defence,  they  had 
recourse  to  their  usual  falsehood  and  cunning.  Bringing 
with  them  to  the  entrenchments  the  bishops  of  "Wexford 
and  Kildare,  and  other  ecclesiastics,  in  their  sacred  vest- 
ments, they  took  solemn  oaths  on  the  holy  relics  that  Dublin 
was  taken,  and  that  the  earl,  with  Maurice  and  Eaymond,  and 
all  tlie  English  were  slain ;  also,  that  the  king  of  Connaught 
and  his  army,  with  the  Leinster  troops,  were  on  their  march, 
and  drawing  near  to  Wexford.  They  also  asserted  that  what 
they  proposed  was  for  the  advantage  of  Eitz-Stephen  ;  for 
as  he  had  treated  them  like  a  courteous  and  liberal  prince, 
they  wished  to  send  him  and  his  followers  back  to  Wales 
in  safety,  before  the  arrival  of  the  vast  army  which  was  in- 
censed against  him.  At  length,  Eitz-Stephen  gave  credit  to 
their  assertions,  and  committed  himself  and  his  people  to 
their  pledged  faith.  Whereupon  they  suddenly  fell  upon 
the  English,  and  killing  some  of  them,  and  cruelly  beating 
and  wounding  others,  threw  them  into  dungeons.  A  true 
report,  however,  being  soon  received  that  the  siege  of  Dublin 
was  raised,  and  that  the  earl  was  near  at  hand,  the  traitors 
set  fire  to  the  town  with  their  own  hands,  and  crossed  m 
boats  to  the  island  of  Begeri,  also  called  the  Holy  Isle, 
which  lies  at  the  mouth  of  the  harbour,  taking  with  them 
the  captives  and  all  their  effects. 

CHAPTEE  XXYI. 

DESCRIPTION    OF    FITZ- STEPHEN. 

O  EXCELLENT  man,  the  true  pattern  of  singular  courage,  and 
unparalleled  enterprise,  whose  lot  it  was  to  be  obnoxious  to 
fickle  fortune,  and  suffer  adversity  with  few  intervals  of 
prosperity  !  O,  worthy  man,  who  both  in  Ireland  and  in 
Wales  experienced  so  many  changes  of  fortune,  and  bore 
them  all  with  equanimity. 

Quae  pejor  fortuna  potest,  atque  omnibus  usurrj, 
Quae  melior. 


226  THE  co:n'qtjest  op  irelaxd. 

O,  Fitz-Sfceplien !  Thou  wert  indeed  another  Marius ;  for 
if  you  consider  his  prosperity,  no  one  was  more  fortunate ; 
if  you  consider  his  misfortunes,  he  was  of  all  men  most 
miserable.  Eobert  Eitz- Stephen  was  stout  in  person,  with 
a  handsome  countenance,  and  in  stature  somewhat  above 
the  middle  height ;  he  was  bountiful,  generous,  and  pleasant, 
but  too  fond  of  wine  and  women. 

Meanwhile,  as  the  earl  was  on  his  march  towards  Wex- 
ford, the  Leinster  forces  encountered  him  near  0  drone,'  at 
a  spot  which  opposed  natural  obstacles  to  his  passage,  and 
which  was  besides  strongly  fortified  by  a  number  of  trees 
being  felled  across  it.  Here  then  was  a  sharp  eagagement, 
but  the  earl  forced  his  way  through  to  the  open  country, 
with  the  loss  of  only  one  of  his  followers  ;  Meyler  distin- 
guishing himself  with  his  usual  bravery. 

CHAPTEE  XXYII. 

THE    DE3CEIPTI0N   OF    THE   EAEL. 

As  to  the  earl's  portrait,  his  complexion  was  somewhat 
ruddy,  and  his  skin  freckled ;  he  had  grey  eyes,  feminine  fea- 
tures, a  weak  voice,  and  short  neck.  For  the  rest,  he  was 
tall  in  stature,  and  a  man  of  great  generosity,  and  of  cour- 
teous manner.  What  he  failed  of  accomplishing  by  force, 
he  succeeded  in  by  gentle  words.  In  time  of  peace  he 
was  more  disposed  to  be  led  by  others  than  to  command. 
Out  of  the  camp  he  had  more  the  air  of  an  ordinary  man- 
at-arms,  than  of  a  general-in- chief ;  but  in  action  the  mere 
soldier  was  forgotten  in  the  commander.  With  the  advice 
of  those  about  him  he  was  ready  to  dare  anything ;  but  he 
never  ordered  any  attack  relying  on  his  own  judgment,  or 
rashly  presuming  on  his  personal  courage.  The  post  he 
occupied  in  battle  was  a  sure  rallying  point  for  his  troops. 
His  equanimity  and  firmness  in  all  the  vicissitudes  of  war 
were  remarkable,  being  neither  driven  to  despair  in  adver- 
sity, nor  pufied  up  by  success. 

^  Odrone  is  a  barony  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Leighlin,  in  the  county 
of  Carlow.  It  was  the  inheritance  of  the  Carews,  descended  from  int 
oideat  Bon  of  Q-erald  and  Nesta. 


PEACE    BETWEEX    THE    KING   AND    THE   EAEL.  227 


CHAPTEE  XXYIII. 

sew    PEACE     AND    AMITY     WERE    EESTOEED     BETWEEN   THE 
KING   AND    THE    EAEL  IN  THE  NEiaHBOUEHOOD  OF  GLOTJ- 

CESTEE. 

The  earl,  continuing  his  march  without  loss  of  time,  de- 
-jcended  into  the  low  country  about  Wexford,  where  he 
yras  met  by  envoys,  who  announced  to  him  the  calamity 
which  had  befallen  Eitz-Stephen,  and  the  burning  of  the 
town.  They  also  conveyed  to  him  a  message  from  the 
traitors,  that  it  was  their  firm  resolution  to  cut  off  the  pri- 
soners' heads,  and  send  them  to  him,  if  he  should  venture  to 
advance  against  them.  On  receiving  this  intelligence,  they 
wheeled  to  the  right,  in  great  bitterness  of  spirit,  and  took 
the  road  to  Waterford,  where  they  found  Hervey  just  re- 
turned from  executing  his  commission  to  the  king  of  Eng- 
land, and  bringing  letters,  inviting  the  earl  to  come  over  to 
England,  which  were  seconded  by  a  verbal  message. 

Accordingly  the  earl  took  shippiug  as  soon  as  the  wind 
was  favourable,  and,  crossing  the  sea,  met  the  kiug  at  Newn- 
ham,  near  Grioucester,  where  he  was  making  preparations  to 
pass  over  to  Ireland,  with  a  large  army.  While  there,  after 
much  altercation,  he  succeeded  at  last,  by  the  address  and 
mediation  of  Hervey,  in  appeasing  the  royal  displeasure, 
upon  the  terms  that  he  should  renew  his  oath  of  fealty  to 
the  king,  and  surrender  to  him  Dublin,  the  capital  of  the 
kingdom,  and  the  adjacent  cantreds,  with  the  towns  on  the 
sea  coast,  and  all  the  fortresses  ;  holding  the  rest  of  his  con- 
quests to  him  and  his  heirs  of  the  king  and  his  heirs.  This 
matter  being  thus  settled,  the  king  proceeded  ou  his  march 
towards  St.  David's,  by  the  road  along  the  coast,  and  coming 
to  Pembroke,  quickly  assembled  a  splendid  fleet  in  the  port 
of  Milford. 

CHAPTEE  XXIX. 

the    DEEEAT    of    o'eOEIC   AT    DUBLIN.      KING   HENBY   AT 
PEMBEOKE. 

IN  the  meantime,  O'Eoric,  the  one-eyed  king  of  Meath, 
»^king  advantage  of  the  absence  of  the  earl,  and  of  Bajo 

Q  2 


THE    COIS'QTJEST    OP    lEELA^'D. 

moud,  who  remained  at  AVaterford,  advanced  to  Dublin 
about  the  calends  (the  1st)  of  September,  with  a  great  host  of 
men.  Einding  a  very  small  garrison  in  the  place,  though 
they  were  brave  soldiers,  he  instantly  made  an  assault  on 
the  walls  and  trenches  with  great  fury  and  loud  shouts. 
But  as  valour  breaks  through  all  bounds,  and  stifled  fire 
will  burst  into  flame,  Milo  de  Cogan  and  his  troops,  suddenly 
sallying  forth,  made  such  slaughter  of  the  enemy  that  they 
were  speedily  routed,  O'Roric's  son,  a  gallant  youth,  with 
a  vast  number  of  others,  being  slain. 

While  the  king  of  England  lay  at  Pembroke,  he  threat- 
ened Mith  his  severest  indignation  the  princes  and  lords  of 
South  Wales,  for  having  allowed  earl  Richard  to  take  his 
passage  from  thence  to  Ireland  ;  but  at  last  the  storm  sub- 
sided on  their  allowing  him  to  place  royal  garrisons  in  all 
their  castles  ;  and  though  the  mutterings  of  the  thunder 
were  loud,  the  deadly  bolt  did  not  fall.  It  occurred  at  this 
time  that  while  the  king  was  amusing  himself  in  the  country 
with  the  sport  of  hawking,  he  chanced  to  espy  a  noble  falcon 
perched  on  a  crag,^  and  making  a  circuit  round  the  rocks, 
he  let  loose  upon  it  a  large  high-bred  i^orway  hawk,  which 
he  carried  on  his  left  wrist.  The  falcon,  though  its  flight 
was  at  first  slower  than  the  other  bird's,  having  at  last 
mounted  above  it,  became  in  turn  the  assailant,  and  pouncing 
from  aloft  with  great  fury  on  the  hawk,  and  striking  it  on 
the  breast  with  her  talons,  laid  it  dead  at  the  king's  feet. 
Erom  that  time  the  king  used  to  send  every  year  in  the 
proper  season  for  the  young  falcons  which  are  bred  in  the 
cliffs  on  the  coast  of  South  Wales  ;  for  in  all  his  land  he 
could  not  find  better  or  more  noble  hawks. 

^  Fuller  ill  bis  "  Worthies,"  quoting  this  anecdote,  says  :  "  There  is  a 
very  good  breed  in  this  county,  of  that  kind  of  falcon  they  call  pere- 
grine, which  name  bespeaks  them  to  be  no  indigense,  but  foreigners,  at 
first  alighting  here  by  some  casualty ;"  and  he  says  that  the  king's 
hawk  was  a  Norway  goss-hawk.  The  chffs  on  the  Pembrokeshire 
coast  and  the  neighbouring  rocky  islands  still  abound  with  eyesses  oi 
i9Yeral  species  of  hawk. 


BELEASE    OF    FITZ-STEPHEK.  229 

CHAPTEE  XXX. 

THE    AERITAL    OF    THE    Ki:5fG-   OF    ENGLAND. 

The  preparations  for  his  great  enterprise  detaining  the  king 
for  some  time  in  the  district  of  Meaevia,^  he  went  to  the 
church  of  St.  David's,  and  having  paid  his  devotions  with  all 
due  solemnity,  when  the  weather  was  fair  and  wind  favour- 
able, embarked  his  troops,-  consisting  of  as  many  as  five  hun- 
dred men-at-arms,  and  a  large  body  of  horsemen  and  archers  ; 
and  crossing  the  sea,  arrived  at  Waterford  about  the  fifteenth 
of  the  calends  of  November  (the  18th  of  October),  being 
St.  Luke's  day.  The  valiant  king  landed  in  Ireland  there- 
fore in  the  seventeenth  year  of  his  reign,  and  the  forty-first 
year  of  his  age,  being  the  year  of  our  Lord  1172  ;  when 
Alexander  III.  was  pope,  Frederic  emperor,  and  Louis 
king  of  France. 

CHAPTEE  XXXL 

HOW  FITZ-STEPHEN  WAS  RELEASED  AT  WATERFOED,  AND 
THE  PRINCES  OF  THE  WEST  OF  IRELAND  MADE  THEIR 
YOLUNTART    SUBMISSION. 

While  the  king  was  resting  a  few  days  at  "Waterford,^  the 
men  of  AVexford,  to  court  his  favour,  brought  to  him  in 
fetters  their  prisoner  Fitz- Stephen,  excusing  themselves 
because  he  bad  been  the  first  to  invade  Ireland  without  xne 
royal  licence,  and  had  set  others  a  bad  example.  The  king 
having  loudly  rated  him,  and  threatened  him  with  his  indig- 
nation for  his  rash  enterprise,  at  last  sent  him  back  loaded 
with  fetters,  and  chained  to  another  prisoner,  to  be  kept  in 
safe  custody  in  Eeginald's  Tower. 

'  Menevia  is  the  ancient  name  of  the  see  of  St.  David's,  and  in- 
cluded all  the  western  part  of  South  Wales. 

2  Hoveden  informs  us  tliat  king  Henry's  fleet  contained  four  hundred 
large  ships  laden  with  warriors,  horses,  arms,  and  provisions.  He  lanf'.i:j 
at  the  Carrig  as  he  had  done  before. 

^  Hoveden  states  that  the  king  stayed  at  Waterford  fifteen  days,  ani 
that  he  found  there  William  Fitz-^ildelm,  his  seneschal,  and  'Eob<*aH 
Fit'A-Bernard,  with  some  otlier  persons  of  his  household,  whom  he  h&d 
Bent  before  him  from.  England. 


230  THE  CONQUEST  OF  IRELAND. 

Soon  afterwards,  Dermitius,  king  of  Cork,  came  of  bis  owis 
free  will  and  made  his  submission  to  the  king  of  England, 
doing  homage  and  swearing  fealty  to  him  as  his  lord,  and 
piying  hostages  for  the  regular  payment  of  a  yearly  tribute. 
The  king  of  England  then  moved  his  army,  and  coming  first 
to  Lismore,  halted  there  for  two  days  ;  and  thence  he  marched 
to  Cashel  on  the  morrow.  There  Duvenald,  king  of  Lim- 
erick, came  to  meet  hitj  at  the  water  of  Suir,  and  haviug 
asked  for  peace,  which  was  granted,  became  also  tributary 
to  the  king  of  England,  and  did  him  fealty,  which  he 
promised  faithfully  to  observe.  The  king  also  appointed 
his  own  governors'and  officers  in  Cork  and  Limerick. 

Even  Duvenald,  prince  of  Ossory,  Mac  Lachelin,  prince  of 
Ophelan,  and  others,  in  the  south  of  Ireland,  who,  although 
not  princes,  were  men  of  consequence  in  their  respective 
nations,  also  made  their  voluntary  submission;^  and  the 
king  having  sent  them  back  into  their  own  country  with 
honour  and  liberal  gifts,  returned  to  Waterford,  through 
Tybrach.  While  there,  Eitz-Stephen  was  again  brought  be- 
fore him,  and  being  touched  with  compassion  for  a  brave 
man  who  had  been  so  often  exposed  to  such  great  perils, 
and  pitying  his  case,  at  the  intercession  of  some  persons  of 
rank  about  his  court,  he  heartily  forgave  and  pardoned  him, 
and  freely  restored  him  to  his  former  state  and  liberty, 
reserving  to  himself  only  the  town  of  "Wexford  with  the 
lands  adjoining. 

CHAPTEE  XXXIL 

HOW  THE  PEINCES  OF  THE  NORTH  OF  IRELAND,  AND 
EODERIC  OF  CONNAXIGHT,  MADE  YOLUNTAEY  SUBMISSION 
AT    DUBLIN. 

After  these  occurrences,  the  king,  leaving  Eobert  Eitz- 
Bernard  with  a  garrison  at  Waterford,  moved  his  army 
towards  Dublin,  through  Ossory.  Making  some  stay  on  the 
road,  the  chief  men  of  those  parts  came  and  swore  fealty 
and  allegiance  to  him,  obtaining  from  the  merciful  king  as- 

'  Among  these  we  may  include,  on  the  authoritv  of  Hoveden,  "Re- 
ginald (or  Eegnald),  the  chief  of  the  Ostmen  in  Wa*-erford,  mentioned 
before  in  c.  xvi. 


BrSMISSION    OF    THE    IRTSn    PKIXCES.  231 

0urauce  of  peace  and  favour.  Among  these  were  Macbelan 
of  Ophelan,  Mac  Talewy,  Otliwetel,  Grillemoholmoch,  O'Ead- 
hese,  0'  Carvel  of  Uriel,  and  O'Eoric  of  Meatb.  But  Eoderic 
of  Connaught  only  met  the  king's  messengers,  Hugh  De 
Lacy  and  William  Eitz-Aldelm,  at  the  water  of  ShaunoD, 
which  divides  Meath  from  Connaught.  He  also  sued  for 
peace,  and  acknowledging  the  king  of  England  slb  his  su- 
preme lord,  became  tributary  to  him,  and  bound  himself  by 
the  most  solemn  oaths  of  alliance  and  fealty.^  Thus  did  all 
the  princes  of  Ireland,  except  those  of  Ulster,  severally 
make  their  submission  for  themselves ;  and  thus,  also,  in 
the  person  of  Eoderic,  prince  of  Connaught,  and  the  titu- 
lar head  of  the  Irish  and  monarch  of  the  whole  island, 
they  all  became  vassals  to  the  king  of  England.  Indeed, 
there  was  scarcely  any  one  of  name  or  rank  in  ihe  island, 
who  did  not,  either  in  person  or  otherwise,  pay  to  the  king's 
majesty  the  homage  due  from  a  liege-man  to  his  lord. 

Then  was  fulfilled  that  ancient  and  well-known  prophecy 
of  Merlinus  Ambrosius  (I  do  not  vouch  for  its  authen- 
ticity):— "The  sixth  shall  overthrow  the  walls  of  Ireland  ;" 
and  another  prediction  of  the  same  prophet:  "The  five 
portions  shall  be  reduced  to  one." 

The  feast  of  Christmas  drawing  near,  very  many  of  the 
princes  of  the  land  repaired  to  Dublin  to  visit  the  king's 
court,  and  were  much  astonished  at  the  sumptuousness  of 
his  entertainments  and  the  splendour  of  his  household ;  and 


^  We  find  Eoderic  O'Connor,  king  of  Connaught,  again  in  armi 
against  the  English,  taking  advantage  of  the  defeat  of  the  Ostmen  of 
Dublin,  related  in  B.  ii.  c.  3.  Roger  de  Hoveden  has,  however,  pre- 
served the  record  of  a  transaction  unnoticed  by  Griraldus,  which  may  be 
considered  as  *  record  of  the  ultimate  submission  of  this  powerful  and 
turbulent  Irish  prince.  It  purports  to  be  a  treaty  made  between  Henry 
II.  and  Eodei'ic,  king  of  Connaught,  by  his  envoys,  at  Windsor,  in  1175, 
whereby  the  king  of  England  grants  to  Roderic  the  kingdom  of  Con- 
naught, to  hold  under  fealty  and  payment  of  an  annual  tribute  of  one 
ekm  for  every  ten  animals  slaughtered,  "  such  as  may  be  approved  by 
dealers."  This  instrument  reserves  to  king  Henry  all  Meath,  with 
I^u'rlin,  Waterford,  and  other  places  in  Lciiister,  in  which  it  does  not 
fi"|>pear  that  Roderic  of  Connaught  could  have  possessed  any  inte'rest» 
Uitiess,  on  the  death  of  Dermot  Mac  Morrough,  he  had,  as  the  para- 
moimt  Irish  king,  in  some  way  succeeded  to  Mac  Morrough's  right* 
in  Leinster.     See  Hoveden,  vol.  i.  p.  402.  Antig.  Lib 


2^  THE  CONQUEST  OF  lEELAND. 

having  places  assigned  them  at  the  tables  in  the  hall,'  by  the 
king's  command,  they  learnt  to  eat  cranes  which  were  served 
up,  a  food  they  before  loathed.  It  was  at  this  time  that  the 
archers  laid  violent  hands  on  the  trees  planted  by  the  hands 
of  the  saints  in  old  times  round  the  cemetery  at  Finglass, 
and  were  carried  oif  by  a  new  sort  of  pestilence,  as  I  have 
related  in  my  Topography.^ 

CHAPTEE  XXXIII. 

THE    SY]N"OD    OF    CASHEL. 

The  king  having  now  silenced  all  opposition  by  his  pre- 
sence, and  ihe  island  enjoying  peace  and  tranqnillity,  he  was 
the  more  inflamed  with  zeal  to  advance  the  honour  of  th^ 
church  of  Grod  aud  the  christian  religion  in  those  parts,  for 
which  purpose  he  convoked  a  synod  of  the  clergy  of  the  whole 
of  Ireland  at  Cashel.  At  this  synod  enquiry  was  publicly 
made  into  the  enormous  offences  and  foul  lives  of  the  people 
of  that  land  ;  which  having  been  recounted  and  carefully  re- 
duced to  writing  under  the  seal  of  the  bishop  of  Lismore,  who, 
as  the  Pope's  legate,  presided  at  the  synod,  many  godly 
constitutions,  which  are  yet  extant,  w^ere  made  with  regard 
to  contracting  marriages,  the  payment  of  tithes,  the  reve- 
rence due  to  churches,  and  the  duty  of  frequenting  them. 
These  constitutions  the  king  promulgated,  being  very  de- 
sirous of  bringing  the  church  of  Ireland  in  all  respects  into 
jonformity  with  the  English  church  ;  and  I  have  considered 
it  not  out  of  place  to  insert  cnem  here,  verbatim,  as  they 
were  published, 

CHAPTEE  XXXIY. 

THE  CONSTITUTIONS  OF  THE  SYNOD  OF  CASHEL. 

IrJ  the  year  of  our  Lord  1172,  being  the  first  year  in  which 
the  most  illustrious  Henry,  king  of  England  and  conqueror 

^  It  is  said  that  the  king  received  the  homage  of  the  Irish  princes  in 
a  hall  constructed  of  wicker  work,  after  the  fashion  of  the  country. 
Iloveden  says  that  it  was  a  royal  palace  constructed  for  the  occasion, 
v/ith  wonderful  skill,  of  peeled  osiers.  Henry  remained  in  Dublin 
from  the  feast  of  St.  Martin,  11th  November,  to  the  beginning  of  Lent. 

•  See  tlie  Topog.,  D.  ii.  c.  54. 


STl^fOD    OF    CASHEL.  233 

of  Ireland,  obtained  the  dominion  of  that  island ;  Christian,, 
bishop  of  Lismore  and  legate  of  the  apostolical  see,  Do- 
natus,  archbishop  of  Cashel,  Laurence,  archbishop  of  Dublin^ 
and  Catholicus,  archbishop  of  Tuam,  with  their  sniFragans 
and  fellow-bishops,  together  with  the  abbots,  archdeacons, 
priors,  and  deans,  and  many  other  Irish  prelates,  assembled 
by  the  conqueror's  command  at  the  city  of  Cashel,  and 
there  held  a  synod  concerning  the  well-being  of  the  Church 
and  the  reformation  thereof 

At  this  synod  were  present,  on  the  king's  behalf,  the  ve- 
nerable Ealph,  abbot  of  Buildewas,  Kalph,  archdeacon  of 
LlandafF,  Nicholas  the  chaplain,  and  other  clerks,  having 
the  commission  of  our  lord  the  king.  The  decrees  of  the 
synod  were  subscribed  by  the  prelates,  and  confirmed  by 
the  royal  authority  ;  as  follows. 

First.  It  is  decreed  that  all  the  faithful  throughout  Ire- 
land shall  eschew  concubinage  with  their  cousins  and  kins- 
folk, and  contract  and  adhere  to  lawful  marriages. 

Second.  That  children  be  catechised  outside  the  church 
doors,  and  infants  baptized  at  the  consecrated  fonts  in  the 
baptisteries  of  the  churches. 

Third.  That  all  good  Christians  do  pay  the  tithes  of 
beasts,  corn,  and  other  produce,  to  the  church  of  the  parish 
in  which  they  live. 

Fourth.  That  all  the  lauds  and  possessions  of  the  church  be 
entirely  free  from  all  exactions  of  secular  men  ;  and  espe- 
cially, that  neither  the  petty  kings  {reguli),  nor  earls,  or  other 
great  men  in  Ireland,  nor  their  sons,  nor  any  of  their 
household,  shall  exact  provisions  and  lodgings  on  any 
ecclesiastical  territories,  as  the  custom  is,  nor  under  any 
pretence  presume  to  extort  them  by  violent  means  ;  and 
that  the  detestable  practice  of  extorting  a  loaf  four  times  a 
year  from  the  vills  belonging  to  the  churches,  by  neigh- 
bouring lords,  shall  henceforth  be  utterly  abolished. 

Fifth.  That  in  the  case  of  a  homicide  committed  by 
laics,  when  it  is  compounded  for  by  the  adverse  parties, 
none  of  the  clergy,  though  of  kindred  to  the  perpetrators 
of  the  crime,  shall  contribute  anything ;  that,  as  they  were 
free  from  tlie  guilt  of  the  homicide,  so  they  shall  be  also 
exonerated  from  any  payment  in  satisfaction  for  it. 

Sixth.   That  every  good  Christian,  being  sick  and  weak, 


234  THE  CONQUEST  or  lEELAND. 

flliall  solemnly  malie  Ms  last  will  and  testament  iu  tin  pre- 
sence of  his  confessor  and  neighbours,  and  that,  if  he  hu\e 
any  wife  and  children,  all  his  moveable  goods  (his  debts  and 
servants'  wages  being  first  paid)  shall  be  divided  into  three 
parts,  one  of  which  he  shall  bequeath  to  his  children, 
another  to  his  lawful  wife,  and  the  third  to  such  uses  aa 
be  shall  declare.  And  if  it  shall  happen  that  there  be  no 
lawful  child  or  children,  then  his  goods  shall  be  equally 
divided  between  his  wife  and  legatees.  And  if  his  wife  die 
before  him,  then  his  goods  shall  be  divided  into  two  parts, 
of  which  the  children  shall  take  one,  and  his  residuary 
legatees  the  other. 

Seventh.  That  those  who  «Jepart  this  life  after  a  good 
confession  shall  be  buried  with  masses  and  vigils  and  all 
due  ceremonies. 

Finally.  That  divine  offices  shall  be  henceforth  cele- 
brated in  every  part  of  Ireland  according  to  the  forms  and 
usages  of  the  church  of  England.  For  it  is  right  and  just 
that,  as  by  divine  Providence  Ireland  has  received  her  lord 
and  kingfrom  England,  she  should  also  submit  to  a  refor- 
mation from  the  same  source.  Indeed  both  the  realm  and 
church  of  Ireland  are  indebted  to  this  mighty  king  for 
whatever  they  enjoy  of  the  blessings  of  peace  and  the 
growth  of  religion  ;  as  before  his  coming  to  Ireland  all  sorts 
of  wickedness  had  prevailed  among  this  people  for  a  long 
series  of  years,  which  now,  by  his  authority  and  care  of  the 
administration,  are  abolished. 

The  primate  of  Armagh  was  not  present  at  this  synod 
by  reason  of  his  infirmities  and  advanced  age,  but  he  after- 
wards came  to  Dublin  and  gave  his  assent  to  the  royal  will 
in  all  these  matters.  This  holy  man,  as  he  was  commonly 
esteemed,  had  a  white  cow,  and  took  no  other  nourishment 
than  this  cow's  milk,  and  therefore  wherever  he  went  she 
was  taken  mth  him. 


CHAPTER  XXXV. 

A    TEISIPESTTJOUS    WINTER. 

The  winds  raged  so  furiously,  the  sea  was  so  rough,  and 
Btorms  succeeded  each  other  with  so  much  violence,  that 


A   TEMPESTUOrS   WINTEE.  235 

during  the  whole  winter  scarcely  a  single  ship  made  her 
passage  over  to  the  island,  and  no  intelligence  could  in  any 
way  be  obtained  from  England.  "Wherefore  all  men  began 
to  think  that  the  wrath  of  Grod  was  impending  over  them 
for  the  sins  of  which  they  were  guilty. 

About  the  same  time  the  sands  were  washed  away  on 
the  coast  of  South  "Wales  by  the  extraordinary  violence  of 
the  prevailing  storms,  and  the  surface  of  the  dry  land,  which 
had  been  for  many  long  years  covered  by  the  waves,  was 
laid  bare  to  view.^  Trunks  of  trees  also  appeared  from 
place  to  place  standing  erect  in  the  bed  of  the  sea,  and 
bearing  on  them  the  marks  of  the  axe,  as  if  they  had  been 
cut  but  yesterday.     The  soil  was  also  very  black,  and  the 

*  There  can  be  no  doubt  that,  at  some  remote  period,  though  be- 
yond the  reach  of  any  records,  a  vast  tract  of  low  ground  extended 
round  the  coast  of  Pembrokeshire  and  the  adjoining  counties,  washed 
by  the  Serern  sea.  The  great  storms  of  the  memorable  winter  of  1172 
again  laid  bars  some  parts  of  the  coast  in  Pembrokesliire,  and  disclosed 
objects  which  are  here  faithfully  described  by  Q-iraldus.  He  repeats 
this  account  in  his  Itinerary,  B.  i.  c.  13,  connecting  it  with  his  obser- 
vations in  crossing  Newgill  sands,  near  St.  David's.  But  it  equally 
aj^plies  to  those  of  Ear-weare,  near  Tenby,  wliich  he  must  have  known 
quite  as  well,  as  they  he  within  ten  miles  of  Manorbeer,  the  place  of  his 
bii'th.  Here  there  was  a  great  forest,  called  Coed-Traeth,  the  wood 
on  the  strand,  or  beach,  some  remains  of  which  still  clothe  the  valleys 
which  open  out  on  tlie  shore,  at  the  verge  of  the  biu-ied  tract.  In  both 
instances  the  stools  and  roots  of  trees  are  seen  in  their  natviral  posi- 
tion, the  trunks  having  been  broken  short  off,  and  imbedded  with  their 
branches  and  leaves.  Many  of  them  are  of  large  girth ;  and  we  have 
discovered  many  sorts,  such  as  oak,  elm,  alder,  and  sallow,  which,  as 
Giraldus  states,  bear  the  marks  of  the  axe.  The  wood  is  not  only,  as 
he  says,  black  as  ebony,  but  some  of  it  is  still  so  sound  that  it  is  con- 
verted into  gate-posts.  The  strand  is  still  below  liigh-water  mark  ;  but 
when  the  tide  is  out,  the  black  earth  here  mentioned,  consisting  of  de- 
composed vegetable  matter,  is  carted  away  by  the  farmers  of  the  neigh- 
bourhood for  manure. 

Eemote  as  the  period  of  this  catastrophe  must  have  been,  the  circum- 
stances are  very  different  from  those  of  the  forest  embedded  on  the 
Norfolk  coast,  near  Cromer,  presenting  in  some  respects  the  same  ap- 
pearances. For  there  the  forest  lies  buried  imder  a  mass  of  drift  two 
hui\dred  feet  in  thickness  ;  and  Lyell  considers  that  its  situation  implis* 
a  subsidence  of  that  depth  since  the  commencement  of  the  Post-Plio» 
cene  period,  and  a  subsequent  upheaval,  as  the  forest  bed  of  Norfolk  is 
now  again  so  high  as  to  be  exposed  to  view  at  many  points  at  low 
water,  like  those  in  South  Wales.     See  Elements  of  Geology,  o.  X. 


286  THE    CONQTJEST    OF    IRELAND. 

wood  of  the  trees  resembled  ebony.  Such  are  the  wonder- 
ful revolutions  in  the  natural  world,  that,  where  once  ships 
sailed,  thej  could  no  now  longer  float,  and  what  was  a  strand 
seemed  now  a  grove  of  trees.  Perhaps  it  was  buried  in  the 
waters  at  the  time  of  Noah's  flood,  or  it  may  rather  be  sup- 
posed that  it  was  gradually  prostrated  and  absorbed  long 
afterwards,  but  still  in  very  ancient  times,  by  the  violence 
of  the  sea  always  overflowing  its  bounds  and  encroaching 
on  the  land. 

Meanwhile,  the  king  remained  at  Wexford,  extremely 
anxious  to  hear  news  from  his  dominions  beyond  the  sea. 
Under  these  circumstances  he  formed  his  household  of  the 
best  men  he  found  in  these  parts,  such  as  E-aymond,  Milo  de 
Cogan,  "William  Mascarel,  and  some  others  whom  he  drew 
about  him,  in  order  to  strengthen  his  own  and  weaken  the 
earl's  party. 

CHAPTER  XXXYI. 

A  CONSPIRACY  AGAINST    THE  KING.     LEGATES  AREIYE  FROM 
THE    COURT    OF    ROME. 

After  the  middle  of  Lent,  the  wind  changing  at  last  to  the 
east,  ships  arrived  both  from  England  and  the  coast  of 
Aquitaine,  bringing  ill  news  of  deep  importance.  Eor  two 
cardinals,  by  name  Albert  and  Theotimus,^  had  arrived  in 
Normandy,  commissioned  by  the  Pope,  Alexander  III.,  to 
make  inquisitions  respecting  the  murder  of  our  martyred 
archbishop  of  Canterbury.  These  prelates  were,  it  was 
supposed,  just  and  good  men,  chosen  for  this  mission  on 
that  account ;  but  for  all  that  they  were  Eomans,  and  they 
threatened  to  lay  the  whole  kingdom  of  England  and  the 
rest  of  the  king's  dominions  under  an  interdict,  unless  he 
forthwith  came  over  to  meet  them.  And,  as  ill  luck  never 
comes  alone,  while  fortune's  favours  are  showered  sparingly, 
intelligence  was  received  of  a  still  more  serious  and  dan- 
gerous character.     The  king's  sons,  namely,  the  eldest,  for 

1  Eoger  de  Hoveden  calls  this  cardinal  Theodimus.  He  gives  full 
details,  and  has  preserved  a  great  number  of  documents  relating  to  the 
quarrel  between  Henry  11  and  Becket,  the  archbishop's  murder,  and  th« 
proceedings  which  arose  out  of  it. 


THE    SPEAKING-STONE.  237 

whom  he  had  such  a  regard  that  he  caused  him  to  be 
crowned  king,  and  his  two  younger  sons  also,  led  by  the 
folly  of  youth  to  follow  their  brother's  bad  example,  had 
taken  advantage  of  the  king's  absence  to  form  a  conspiracy 
against  him,  in  which  they  were  abetted  by  many  of  the 
nobles  of  England  and  of  the  king's  foreign  dominions. 

On  receiving  this  intelligence,  disclosing  such  serious 
and  unexpected  evils,  the  king  was  overwhelmed  with  per- 
plexities. Eirst,  it  grieved  him  that  he  should  be  suspected 
of  a  crime  of  which  he  was  guiltless.  Next,  he  was  appre- 
hensive that  his  kingdom  and  other  dominions  would  be 
thrown  into  a  disturbed  state  by  these  wicked  plots.  Ajid, 
moreover,  he  was  much  vexed  at  being  compelled  so  inop- 
portunely to  leave  his  Irish  kingdom ;  having  intended 
during  the  ensuing  summer  to  build  castles  for  securing  its 
submission,  and  to  establish  peace  and  good  order  through- 
out the  country.  His  first  care  was,  therefore,  to  send 
some  of  his  trusty  servants  to  England ;  and  then  he  turned 
bis  thoughts  and  took  deliberate  counsel  as  to  what  was  to 
be  done  for  the  security  of  Ireland. 


CHAPTEE  XXXYII. 

or   THE   KINa's   EETIJEN,   BY  WAT  OF  ST.  DAYID's,   AND   THE 
LECHLAWAE,   OR   SPEAKING-STONE. 

Befobe  he  left  Ireland,  the  king  appointed  these  follow- 
ing to  be  constables  or  governors  of  cities  and  strong- 
holds ;  namely,  in  Dublin,  Hugh  de  Lacy,  to  whom  he  had 
granted  Meath,  to  be  held  in  fee,  and  who  had  with  him 
twenty  men-at-arms ;  also  Eitz-Stephen  and  Maurice  Eitz- 
gerald,  with  twenty  more ;  in  Waterford,  Humphrey  de 
Bohun,  Eobert  Eitz-Bernard,  and  Hugh  de  Gundeville, 
with  forty  men-at-arms  ;  in  Wexford,  William  Eitz-Aldelm, 
Philip  de  Hastings,  and  Philip  de  Braose,  with  twenty. 
At  length,  on  the  Monday  of  Easter  week,  at  sunrise,  he 
took  boat,  and  getting  on  board  ship  in  the  outer  harbour 
of  Wexford,  reached  St.  David's  bay  about  noon,  after  a 
quick  voyage,  a  strong  wind  blowing  from  the  westward. 
Having  landed,  the  king  proceeded  to  St.  David's  with  great 
devotion,  in  the  guise  of  a  pilgrim,  on  foot,  and  staff  in 


238  THE    COKQUEST    OF    IRELAND. 

hand,  and  was  met  by  the  canons  of  the  cathedral  in  solemn 
procession,  who  received  him  with  due  honour  and  reve- 
rence at  the  White  Gate. 

While  the  solemn  procession  was  orderly  passing  onward, 
a  Welsh  woman  suddenly  threw  herself  at  the  king's  feet, 
and  made  some  complaint  against  the  bishop  of  the  diocese, 
which  was  explained  to  the  king  by  an  interpreter.  Ee- 
ceiving,  however,  no  redress,  the  woman  became  abusive, 
and  raising  her  voice,  and  loudly  clapping  her  hands,  she 
repeatedly  shouted,  in  the  presence  of  all  the  company, 
"  Avenge  us  this  day,  Lechlawar,  avenge  our  race  and  nation 
on  this  man."^  And,  being  stopped  and  thrust  forth  by  the 
people  of  the  country  who  understood  British  (Welsh),  she 
still  continued  to  vociferate  the  same  words  with  increased 
violence,  alluding  to  a  certain  prophecy  of  Merlin's,  which, 
though  current  among  the  vulgar,  was  not  authentic,  to 
the  purpiDrt  that  a  king  of  England,  returning  through 
Menevia,  after  the  conquest  of  Ireland,  where  he  had  been 
wounded  by  a  man  with  a  bloody  hand,  should  die  on 
Lechlawar.  For  this  was  the  name  given  to  a  stone  which 
was  placed  across  the  stream,  dividing  the  cemetery  of  St. 
David's  from  the  north  side  of  the  church,  to  form  a  bridge. 
The  stone  was  of  beautiful  marble,  and  the  surface  was 
worn  smooth  by  the  feet  of  those  who  passed  over  it.  Its 
length  was  ten  feet,  its  breadth  six,  and  it  was  one  foot  thick. 
In  the  British  (Welsh)  language  the  word  Lechlawar 
means  "  the  speaking-stone ;"  for  there  is  an  ancient  tradi- 
tion, that  on  some  occasion,  when  a  corpse  was  carried  over 
it,  the  stone  spoke  at  that  very  moment,  but  in  the  effort 
cracked  in  the  middle,  which  crack  is  still  to  be  seen.  This 
gave  rise  to  a  barbarous  superstition,  which  from  that  time 
to  the  present  day  forbids  any  dead  bodies  being  carried  to 
their  burial  over  the  bridge. 

The  king  coming  to  the  stone  paused  for  a  moment, 
having,  perhaps,  heard  the  prophecy  mentioned ;  but  having 
glanced  keenly  at  it,  he  summoned  up  his  resolution,  and 
without  further  delay  walked  across.  Then  turning  back,  and 
looking  at  the  stone,  he  said  with  some  indignation,  "Who 
now  will  have  any  faith  in  that  liar,  Merlin  ?"  and  so  enter» 

•  This  anecdote  is  repeated  by  Giraldus  in  his  Itinerary.  See  B.  ii.  o.  L 


CONFEEENCE    WITE    THE    KIXG    OP    FEANCE.  239 

iDg  the  church  founded  in  honour  of  St.  Andrew  and  St. 
David,  having  paid  liis  devotions  and  heard  a  mass  solemnly 
celebrated  by  a  certain  chaplain,  the  only  one  of  all  the 
numerous  priests  attached  to  the  church  who  had  fasted  to 
that  hour,  and  who  seemed  to  have  been  reserved  for  the 
occasion  by  Divine  Providence,  the  king,  after  he  had 
supped,  went  on  to  the  castle  of  Haverford,  about  twelve 
miles  distant. 


CHAPTEE  XXXYIII. 

TEEMS    AEE    SPEEDILY   MADE    WITH    THE    POPE's    LEGATES 
AND    THE    KTNGt   OF   EEANCE. 

The  king,  in  returning  to  England  out  of  "Wales,  took  the 
road  on  the  sea  coast  by  which  he  had  journeyed  thither, 
and  going  on  board  ship  in  great  haste,  and  crossing  over  to 
Normandy,  showed  his  deference  for  the  pope  by  losing 
no  time  in  presenting  himself  to  the  Eoman  cardinals  at 
Coutances.  There,  after  much  altercation,  he  cleared  his 
innocence  by  a  solemn  oath ;  but  a  penance  was  enjoined 
him,  because,  although  he  was  not  privy  to  the  murder, 
it  was  through  him  the  martyr  suffered.  Having  then 
honourably  dismissed  the  legates,  he  hastened  to  Marche, 
to  hold  a  conference  with  Louis,  king  of  Prance ;  and  by 
the  mediation  of  some  men  of  worth,  and  especially  of 
Philip  count  of  Flanders,  just  then  returned  from  a  pil- 
grimage to  St,  James  [of  Compostella],  means  were  found 
of  restoring  amity  between  them,  and  allaying  the  resent- 
ment which  the  Prench  king  entertained  for  the  murder  of 
the  archbishop  of  Canterbury  before  named,  because  the 
king  of  England  had  pledged  himself  to  him  on  his  own 
oath  and  the  oaths  of  other  great  and  powerful  men  for  the 
archbishop's  safety  when  he  was  about  to  return  to  Eng- 
land. By  this  peace,  so  wonderfully  brought  about,  the 
wicked  and  clandestine  plot  of  the  king's  sons  and  thei* 
eoufederatea  was  defeated  until  the  year  following. 


240  TTIE    COJrQTTEST    OF    lEELAND. 


ClIAPTEE   XXXIX. 

or    THE   YISIOW,  OB   EATHER,   THE   VISITATION,   WHICH    T^X 
XINfi   HAD    AT    CAEDIFF. 

Befoee  we  proceed  further,  it  may  not  be  superfluous  or 
unprofitable  to  relate  in  this  place  what  happened  to  the 
king  on  his  return  from  Ireland  by  the  sea  coast  of  South 
Wales.  On  the  Saturday  in  Easter  week  he  spent  the  night 
at  the  town  of  Cardifi",  and  on  the  morrow,  being  the  day 
commonly  called  Low  Sunday,  he  heard  early  mass  in  the 
chapel  of  St.  Perian  ;^  and  after  all  had  departed  except  the 
king,  who  continued  liis  devotions  longer  than  usual,  when 
at  length  he  came  forth,  as  he  was  mounting  his  horse  at 
the  chapel  door,  a  man  stood  before  him,  holding  a  stake  in 
his  hand,  on  which  he  supported  himself  His  hair  was 
yellow,  and  it  was  cropped  round ;  his  face  was  emaciated ; 
he  was  rather  tall,  appeared  to  be  about  forty  years  old, 
and  wore  a  white  tunic  fitting  close  and  girded  about  him, 
descending  to  his  ancles ;  it  was  girded  about  him  with  a 
belt,  and  his  feet  were  bare.  This  man  addressed  the  king 
in  the  Teutonic  tongue,  as  follows :  "  Got  holde  the, 
cuning"  —  "God  keep  thee!  O  king!"  and  afterwards 
added  in  the  same  language,  "  Christ  and  his  Holy  Mo- 
ther, John  the  Baptist,  and  Peter  the  Apostle,  salute 
thee,  and  do  charge  and  command  thee  strictly  to  pro- 
hibit any  kind  of  traffic,  or  markets,  or  fiiirs,  to  be  held 
throughout  thy  dominions  on  the  Lord's  day,  or  any  sort 
of  work  or  labour  to  be  done,  save  only  in  preparing  neces- 
sary food,  but  that  divine  offices  be  duly  and  devoutly  per- 
formed and  heard  on  that  day.  If  thou  wilt  do  this,  all 
that  thou  shalt  take  in  hand  shall  prosper,  and  thou  shalt 
have  a  happy  life." 

The  king  then  said  in  French  to  one  Philip  de  Mercroe,^ 
who  was  holding  his  horse's  bridle,  a  person  of  good  cou- 

'  See  the  Itinerary  of  Wales,  B.  i  c.  6. 

2  Philip  de  Mercros,  or  Marcros,  derived  bis  name  from  a  place  on  the 
coast  of  Glamorganshire,  near  St.  Donat's  castle.  Giraldus  repeats  this 
anecdote  in  his  Itinerary,  lib.  i.  c.  6.  It  is  the  earbest  notice  we  have 
met  with  of  the  movement  against  the  desecration  of  the  Lord's  day, 
which  became  very  general  in  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  king  John, 
about  thirty  years  after  this  period.      Wendover,  vol.  ii.  pp.  188—193 


TISIOIf   OF    THE    KiNa   AT    CAUDIFF.  241 

dition,  born  in  those  parts,  and  wlio  gave  me  an  exact 
account  of  this  occurrence :  "  Ask  the  clown  whether  he 
dreamt  this."  Philip  having  interpreted  this  in  English, 
the  man  replied  :  "  Whether  I  dreamt  this  or  not,  mark 
well,"  he  said,  addressing  himself  to  the  king  and  not  to  the 
interpreter,  "  what  day  this  is  ;  for  unless  thou  doest  this, 
and  shalt  amend  thy  life  before  the  end  of  the  present 
year,  thou  shalt  hear  such  tidings  of  those  thou  lovest  best 
in  the  world,  and  shalt  have  from  them  so  much  trouble, 
that  it  shall  last  for  all  the  rest  of  thy  life."  On  hearing 
this,  the  king  put  spurs  to  his  horse  and  went  forward  a 
little,  as  much  as  eight  paces  towards  the  town  gate ;  but 
having  reflected  a  moment  on  what  was  said,  he  reined  in 
his  horse,  and  said,  "  Callback  that  good  man."  Upon  this, 
Philip  de  Mercros  and  a  youth  named  William,  tlie  only 
two  of  the  royal  attendants  who  had  remained  in  the  town, 
called  after  him,  and,  on  his  not  appearing,  searched  for  him 
in  the  chapel,  and  afterwards  in  the  court,  and  in  all  the 
inns  of  the  town,  but  could  not  find  him.  The  king  waited 
alone  for  some  time  in  the  town  while  the  others  thus 
sought  out  the  man  in  vain ;  and  then  sorrowing  much, 
and  in  great  dudgeon  because  he  had  not  talked  to  him 
more  at  large,  crossing  the  bridge  at  Eempni,^  pursued 
his  journey  towards  Newbury. 

What  this  man  predicted  and  threatened  came  to  pass 
before  the  year  was  ended.  The  king's  three  sons,  Henry, 
the  eldest,  and  the  other  two,  the  earls  of  Poitou  and 
Brittany,  leagued  against  him  in  the  Lent  following,  and 
Avent  over  to  Louis,  king  of  France  ;  occasioniug  him  so 
much  disquietude  as  he  had  never  experienced  before,  and 
which  incessantly  troubled  him,  from  one  or  other  of  his 
sons,  to  the  last  day  of  his  life.  And  it  may  be  supposed  to 
have  been  a  just  judgment  of  Grod,  that  as  he  had  been  a 
disobedient  son  to  his  spiritual  father,  his  sons  in  the  flesh 
should  be  disobedient  to  him.    The  king  also  received  about 

{Antiq.  Lib.),  and  Hoveden,  vol.  ii.  pp.  526 — 530,  give  some  exceedingly 
curious  details  respecting  it. 

'  The  Rhumney  river  runs  into  the  sea  about  four  miles  from  Cardiff. 
In  its  course  from  the  North  it  divides  Monmouthshire  from  Glamor- 
ganshire, and  it  therefore  forms  the  boundary  between  3ixgland  said 
Wales. 

B 


2^2  THE    CONQUEST   OF   lEELAlTD. 

the  same  period,  and  towards  the  close  of  his  life,  many 
other  forewarnings,  through  the  Divine  mercy,  which  pre- 
fers the  conversion  and  repentance  of  sinners,  to  their  ruin. 
Would  to  Grod  that  his  obstinate  mind  and  hard  heart  had 
not  despised  these  monitions,  but  that  he  had  received  them 
penitently,  and  corrected  his  misdeeds,  to  his  endless  hap- 
piness. On  this  subject  I  propose  to  enlarge,  with  G-od's 
permission,  in  the  book  I  have  so  often  promised  to  write 
concerning  the  "  Instruction  of  a  Prince."  ^ 

CHAPTEE  XL. 

THE    TREASON   AND    DEATH    OP    O'eOEIC. 

Meanwhile,  Ireland  enjoyed  tranquillity  and  peace  under 
the  governors  to  whom  the  custody  of  the  realm  was  com- 
mitted. However,  some  dispute  arising  between  Hugh  de 
Lacy  and  O'Eoric,  the  one-eyed  king  of  Meath,  a  day  and 
place  was  assigned  for  a  parley  respecting  it.  But  in  the 
night  before  the  day  appointed,  one  of  the  men-at-arms, 
whose  name  was  Grriffyth,  a  nephew  of  Maurice  and  Pitz- 
Stephen,^  had  a  dream,  in  which  he  saw  a  herd  of  wild  boars 
rush  pell-mell  on  High  and  Maurice,  and  one  larger  and 
more  ferocious  than  the  rest,  the  leader  of  the  herd,  would 
have  rent  them  asunder  with  its  tusks,  unless  he  (Q-rifiyth) 
had  rescued  them  with  the  strong  hand  and  killed  the  boar. 
On  the  morrow  they  proceeded  towards  the  place  appointed 
for  the  conference,  which  is  called  O'Eoric's  hill,^  and  having 
first,  by  the  exchange  of  messages  at  a  distance,  and  after- 
wards in  person  when  they  met,  taken  security  on  both 
sides  by  their  solemn  oaths,  they  came  to  the  parley.  It 
had  been  stipulated  that  only  a  very  few  should  be  present 

*  The  book  De  Instructione  Principis,  here  alluded  to,  is  preserved, 
and  has  been  printed. 

2  See  the  Pedigree  inserted  at  the  beginning  of  this  History.  We 
find  in  B.  ii.  c.  xxi.,  that  Grifiyth  was  brother  to  Raymond  ie  Gros, 
and  therefore  a  son  of  WiUiam,  the  eldest  of  the  Fitzgeralds. 

^  This  is  the  celebrated  hill  of  Tarah,  in  Meath,  on  which  the 
national  assemblies  were  held,  and  where  once  stood  the  habheireg,  or 
etone  of  destiny,  on  which  the  Irish  kings  were  inaugurated.  They 
had  afterwards  a  palace  on  this  spot,  in  the  courts  of  which  the  estat« 
of  the  kingdom  are  said  to  have  assembled  till  the  time  of  Brian 
Boroimhe,  995. 


DEATH  or  o'eoeic.  243 

on  each  part,  and  those  in  equal  numbers,  and  unarmed, 
except  with  their  swords  on  the  one  side  and  their  battle- 
axes  on  the  other,  while  the  rest  of  the  people  remained  at 
some  little  distance.  Meanwhile  G-riffyth,  who  had  come 
to  the  parley  in  company  with  Maurice,  and  was  full  of 
anxiety  in  consequence  of  his  dream,  had  selected  seven  of 
his  kinsmeu,  in  whose  courage  he  bad  the  strongest  confi- 
dence, and  drew  them  apart  to  one  side  of  the  hill,  but  as 
near  as  they  were  allowed  to  the  place  of  conference.  They 
then  took  their  shields  in  hand,  and  putting  their  lances  in 
rest,  made  show  of  being  engaged  in  tilting  according  to  the 
French  fashion,  in  order  that,  however  the  parley  ended, 
they  might  be  ready  in  arms  for  any  emergency,  under  the 
pretext  of  the  sport  in  which  they  were  amusing  themselves. 

In  the  meantime,  O'Horic  and  Hugh  de  Lacy  had  much 
altercation  on  the  questions  in  dispute  between  them  ;  and  so 
far  from  coming  to  an  agreement,  things  tending  to  an  open 
rupture,  the  one-eyed  villain,  meditating  treachery,  went 
aside  for  a  short  space  under  a  ready  pretence,  and  beckoned 
to  his  friends  to  come  up  with  all  speed.  He  was  hasten- 
ing with  long  strides,  his  face  pale  with  revenge,  and  his 
axe  raised,  towards  those  who  were  engaged  in  the  parley, 
when  Maurice  Fitzgerald,  being  on  his  guard,  and  having 
closely  watched  all  that  had  taken  place,  in  consequence 
of  his  having  chanced  to  hear  his  nephew's  dream  men- 
tioned, and  during  the  parley  had  constantly  kept  his  sword 
lying  across  his  knees,  with  his  hand  on  the  hilt,  now  drew 
it,  and  rising  up,  warned  Hugh  de  Lacy  also  to  stand  on  his 
defence.  The  traitor  then  made  a  desperate  stroke  at 
Hugh,  but  it  fell  on  the  interpreter,  who,  faithful  to  his 
lord,  thrust  himself  forward  to  shield  him,  and  cut  ofi"  his 
arm,  giving  him  a  mortal  wound. 

Maurice  now  called  aloud  to  his  friends  to  make  a 
hasty  retreat,  while  sword  encountered  battle-axe,  and 
Hugh  de  Lacy,  being  twice  felled  to  the  ground,  was  saved 
by  Fitzgerald's  prowess.  Meanwhile,  the  Irish  rushed 
in  great  numbers  from  the  valleys  at  the  traitor's  signal, 
armed  with  two  edged  broad-axes,  and  there  would  soon 
have  been  an  end  of  Maurice  and  Hugh,  had  not  Griffyth 
and  his  small  band  rode  up  at  full  speed,  when  they  heard 
Fitzgerald's  cries  calling  them  to  aid.    O'Eoric,  seeing  them 

B  2 


244  THE    COTTQUEST    OF    lEELAIO). 

coming,  thought  that  it  was  time  to  seek  safety  in  flight, 
and  was  in  the  act  of  mounting  a  horse  which  was  brought 
up  for  him,  when  Griffyth,  putting  spurs  to  his  own,  ran 
his  spear  both  through  O'Roric  and  the  horse  he  was 
mounting.  There  were  slain  with  him  three  of  his  fol- 
lowers, who  at  the  risk  of  their  lives  had  brought  the  horse. 
His  head  was  cut  off,  and  afterwards  sent  to  the  king  in 
England  ;  and  the  rest  of  the  Irish  fled  in  confusion  and 
scattered  themselves  over  the  open  country,  till  they  reached 
the  far-distant  woods  ;  the  English  pursuing  them  without 
respite,  and  making  great  slaughter  amongst  them.  E-alph, 
Eitz-Stephen's  son,  a  young  and  valiant  soldier,  much  dis- 
tinguished himself  in  this  skirmish. 

CHAPTEE  XLI. 

CONCEENING   TISIOTTS. 

As  there  are  many  different  opinions  concerning  visions,  it 
may  not  be  amiss  on  this  occasion  to  introduce  some  true 
and  authentic  accounts  of  them  which  have  been  handed 
down  to  us.  "Valerius  Maximus  relates  that  two  Arcadians 
being  on  a  journey  together,  when  they  came  to  a  cer- 
tain town,  one  of  them  lodged  with  a  friend,  and  the  other 
went  to  a  common  inn.  The  one  who  lodged  in  his  friend's 
house  dreamed  that  his  fellow-traveller  came  to  him  and 
begged  help  against  his  host  who  was  grievously  assaulting 
him ;  wherewith  he  awoke,  but  fell  asleep  again,  and  dreamed 
that  his  companion  appeared  to  him  a  second  time,  and  im- 
plored him  that  although  he  would  not  come  and  help  him 
while  he  was  living,  he  would  at  least  have  him  buried.  He 
added  that  his  host  was  then  taking  his  corpse  in  a  cart 
outside  the  town  gate,  to  conceal  it  in  a  dunghill.  The 
man's  friend  waking  up,  and  having  made  search,  found  this 
account  to  be  true,  and  causing  the  inkeeper  to  be  appre- 
hended, he  was  condemned  and  executed. 

Arcerius  Eufus  dreamed  that  he  was  killed  by  a  gladiator, 
which  came  to  pass  the  day  following.  Simonides,  the 
poet,  having  buried  the  corpse  of  a  man  which  he  found 
lying  on  the  sea- shore,  was  warned  by  him  in  a  dream  the 
game  night  not  to  go  to  sea  on  the  day  following,  and  co- 


co^cEUNi^^a  YisioNS.  245 

eordingly  he  remained  on  shore.  The  mariners,  with  whom 
he  w^as  to  embark,  set  sai],  and\  ere  buried  in  the  waves  be- 
fore hia  eyes.  Calphurnia,  Julius  Caesar's  w^ife,  dreamed  the 
night  before  he  was  assassinated,  that  he  lay  in  her  bosom  co- 
vered with  mortal  wounds  ;  at  which  she  was  so  terrified  that 
she  awoke  and  entreated  him  not  to  go  to  the  senate-house 
the  next  morning.  But  he,  not  liking  to  have  it  said  that  he 
put  any  faith  in  a  woman's  dream,  put  her  off  with  excuses. 

Not  to  go  so  far  for  examples,  let  us  seek  them  at  home, 
and  in  modern  times.  My  brother,  Walter  de  Barri,'  a  man 
of  condition,  and  a  gallant  soldier,  having  made  prepara- 
tions for  an  expedition  against  the  enemy,  the  night  before 
he  was  to  set  forward,  my  own  mother,  who  had  died  long 
before,  appeared  to  him  in  a  dream,  and  earnestly  admonished 
him,  as  he  \  alued  his  life,  to  find  some  means  of  not  joining 
in  the  expedition  intended  on  the  morrow.  I  should  men- 
tion that  she  was  not  his  mother,  but  his  step-mother  ;  but 
she  loved  him  as  much  as  if  he  were  her  own  son.  ^  He  re- 
lated what  had  occurred  to  his  father,  who  w^as  mine  also, 
we  being  his  sons  by  different  mothers,  and  therefore  half- 
brothers,  and  our  father  gave  him  the  same  advice.  How- 
ever, disregarding  these  admonitions,  with  the  presumption 
natural  to  man,  and  being  ashamed  of  appearing  to  be 
frightened  by  an  idle  dream,  the  next  morning  he  went  out 
on  the  expedition,  and  was  slain  by  the  enemy  the  same 
day.  We  find  also  an  instance  in  which  the  event  turned 
out  otherwise.  Valerius  relates  that  on  the  eve  of  the 
battle  between  Augustus  and  Brutus,  Minerva  appeared  in 
a  dream  to  the  emperor's  physician  Artorius,  and  enjoined 
him  to  prevent  his  engaging  in  the  battle,  because  he  w\^s 
sick  ;  but  Augustus,  notwithstanding  he  was  informed  of 
this,  caused  himself  to  be  carried  to  the  field  in  a  litter,  and 
gained  the  battle. 

Again,  shortly  before  our  own  times,  it  happened  in  the 
district  called  Kemmeis,in  the  province  of  Demetia,in  Wales, 
that  a  certain  wealthy  man,  whose  mansion  stood  on  the 

^  It  is  probable  that  tliis  Walter  de  Barri  was  the  author's  eldest 
brother,  though  by  the  half-blood ;  and  that  he  met  his  untimely  end 
before  the  expedition  to  Ireland. 

2  Giraldus*  mother,  of  whom  he  records  this  excellent  trait,  wai 
Angharad,  daugliter  of  Nesta,  by  Gerald  de  Windsor. 


246  THE    CONQUEST    OF    lEELAlTD. 

north  side  of  the  mountains,  of  Presseli/  had  dreams  for 
three  successive  nights,  in  which  he  was  admonished  that  if 
he  went  to  a  fountain  in  the  neighbourhood,  called  St.  Ber- 
nac's  well,  and  put  his  hand  down  to  the  stone  which  lay 
over  the  spring,  he  would  draw  out  a  collar  of  gold.  On 
the  third  day  the  man  did  as  he  was  hidden,  and  putting  his 
hand  into  the  hole,  a  viper  bit  his  finger,  and  he  died  in 
consequence. 

From  these  and  various  other  examples,  whatever  others 
may  think  of  dreams  (de  somniis  somnient),  my  opinion  is 
that,  like  rumours,  they  may  be  sometimes  credited  and 
sometimes  ought  to  be  treated  as  idle  tales.  But  of  visions; 
such  as  those  which  are  wont  to  be  revealed  by  angels  to 
men  gifted  with  prophecy,  the  case  is  very  different,  for  we 
know  the  events  following  them  prove  their  truth  on  un- 
doubted authority. 

CHAPTEE  XLII. 

A    nESCRIPTION"    OF    MATJEICE    EITZGEEALD. 

This  Maurice  was  a  man  of  dignified  aspect  and  modest 
bearing,  of  a  ruddy  complexion  and  good  features.  He  was 
of  the  middle  height,  neither  tall  nor  short.  In  him,  both 
in  person  and  temper,  moderation  was  the  rule ;  the  one 
was  well  proportioned,  the  other  equable.  Maurice  was 
naturally  of  an  excellent  disposition,  but  he  was  much  more 
anxious  to  be  good  than  to  appear  such.  He  so  governed 
all  his  conduct  that  both  in  morals  and  courtesy  he  may  be 
considered  the  pattern  and  model  of  his  country  and  times.^ 
He  was  a  man  of  few  words,  but  his  language  was  polished 
and  there  was  more  sense  than  sound,  more  reason  than 
eloquence,  in  what  he  said  ;  and  when  the  occasion  demanded 
it,  he  gave  his  opinion,  though  deliberately,  with  great  in- 
telligence.     In  war  he  was  intrepid,  and  second  to  no  man 

^  The  Preseelly  Mountains,  in  Pembrokeshire.  Giraldus  repeats  this 
anecdote  in  the  Itinerary,  B.  ii.  c.  2,  where  notes  will  be  found  on  the 
localities. 

2  Maurice  Fitzgerald,  of  whom  his  nephew  G-iraldus  draws  this  high 
character,  was,  as  already  mentioned,  the  second  son  of  Gerald  de  Wind- 
Bor  and  Nesta,  and  ancestor  of  the  earls  of  Kildare,  afterwards  dukes 
of  Leinster,  and  of  the  earls  of  Desmond. 


DISSENSION    BETWEEN   THE    KING   AND    HIS    SONS.        247 

in  valour ;  but  he  did  not  run  headlong  into  danger,  and 
though  prudent  in  making  attacks  was  resolute  in  defence. 
He  was  sober,  modest,  chaste,  constant,  firm,  and  faithful ;  a 
man  not  altogether  without  fault,  but  not  stained  by  any 
great  and  notorious  crime. 


CHAPTEE  XLIII. 

THE    FIEST   DISSENSION  BETWEEN  THE    KING  AND    HIS  SONS. 

In  the  month  of  April  following,  the  younger  kiug  of  Eng- 
land, I  mean  Henry,  son  of  king  Henry,^  being  no  longer 
able  to  conceal  the  wickedness  he  had  long  devised  against 
his  father  through  evil  counsels,  withdrew  to  the  court  of 
Louis,  king  of  France,  whose  daughter  he  had  married, 
taking  with  him  his  two  brothers,  the  earls  of  Poictiers  and 
Britany,  and  hoping,  with  his  father-in-law's  assistance,  to 
supplant  his  father  before  his  time.  He  had  also  many  ac- 
complices in  his  designs  among  the  nobles  of  England  and 
foreign  dominions,  as  well  as  many  more  who  were  his  se- 
cret abettors.  The  elder  king,  the  father,  was  thrown  into 
great  perplexity  by  the  unexpected  difficulties  with  which 
he  found  himself  surrounded ;  but  assuming  a  cheerful  coun- 
tenance, he  gave  every  sign  of  hope  and  comfort,  and  col- 
lected succours  from  all  quarters.  Among  the  rest,  he  re- 
called from  Ireland,  by  special  messengers,  the  veteran 
troops  he  had  left  there  ;  and  when  he  was  at  Eouen,  com- 
mitted the  entire  charge  of  that  kingdom  to  earl  Eichard, 
joining  Eaymond  with  him  in  the  commission,  as  the  earl 
had  refused  to  accept  the  government  without  his  assistance. 
The  king  also,  as  a  mark  of  his  favour,  granted  the  earl  at 
that  time  the  town  of  Wexford,  with  the  castle  of  Ginkel. 

'  Henry,  "the  younger  king  of  England,"  as  he  was  called,  havhig 
been  crowned  m  his  father's  life-time,  married  Margaret,  daughter  of 
Lewis,  king  of  France,  and  in  August,  1172,  brought  her  to  England, 
where  she  was  crowned  at  Winchester.  Early  in  the  year  following, 
the  young  Henry  withdrew  to  his  father-in-law's  court,  and,  supported 
by  him.  commenced  that  unhappy  series  of  revolts,  which,  with  short 
intervals,  embittered  the  remainder  of  the  life  of  Henry  II.  See 
Hoveden,  vol.  i.  pp.  367,  &c.  A7iiiq.  Lib. 


24:8  THE    CONQUEST  OE    IRELAiN^D. 

CHAPTER  XLIA^ 

THE    VICTOEIES    OE   HEKRT  II.,  KING  OE  ENGLAND. 

The  king  had  to  wage,  duriug  two  years,  worse  than  civil 
wars,  both  in  England  and  Aquitaine,^  at  the  cost  of  so 
many  hurried  expeditions,  such  watchings  and  careful 
labours,  and  he  foiled  the  enterprises  of  his  many  powerful 
enemies  with  so  much  vigour,  that  it  would  seem  he  had 
more  than  human  aid,  divine  Providence  giving  him  success 
over  the  unnatural  rebellion  of  his  sons.  But  as  a  man's 
household  are  his  worst  adversaries,  and  of  all  plagues,  in- 
ternal enemies  are  the  greatest,  he  was  almost  reduced  to 
despair  by  the  conduct  of  the  gentlemen  of  his  privy 
chamber,  a  chosen  band,  on  whose  fidelity  his  life  or  death 
depended,  who  would  nearly  every  night  disloyally  go  over 
to  his  sons,  and  when  their  services  were  wanted  in  the 
morning,  could  not  be  found.  But  although  the  war  was 
almost  hopeless  in  the  outset,  his  better  fortune  prevailed, 
and  victory  crowning  him  in  the  end,  he  acquired  such  glory, 
and  so  augmented  his  power,  that  while  at  first  all  men 
thought  that  the  divine  indignation  had  suddenly  marked 
him  out  for  vengeance,  so  at  last  lie  seemed  to  be  mercifully 
spared  through  that  goodness  which  rejoiceth  more  in  the 
conversion  than  in  the  destruction  of  a  sinner.  After  deep 
grief  at  the  capture  of  Dol,^  St.  Edmund  having  showered 
his  favours  on  the  kingdom,  and  the  blessed  martyr  Thomas 
being  appeased  by  the  tears  and  supplications  of  the  king, 
who  went  in  pilgrimage  to  Canterbury,^  and  did  penance  in 
the   night,   peace   and  a  long  season  of    prosperity   were 

^  See  full  details  of  this  campaign,  botli  in  France  and  England,  in 
Hoveden's  History,  vol.  i.  pp.  368—390. 

2  Dol,  a  strong  castle  in  Bx'itany,  was  taken  by  stratagem,  on  the 
20th  September,  1173,  but  recovered  by  king  Henry  a  few  days  after- 
wards. 

3  St.  Edmund,  king  and  martyr,  was  highly  venerated  at  this  period, 
and  his  shrine  at  Bury  visited  with  great  devotion.  Florence  of  Wor- 
cester frequently  mentions  the  pilgrimages  made  to  it  by  Henry  III. 
The  famous  pilgrimage  to  Canterbiuy  here  referred  to  by  Giraldus, 
took  place  on  the  loth  June,  1174,  and  is  described  both  by  Hoveden 
and  Wendover. 


desceipti.o:n"  or  ee^s'et  ii.  249 

restored  to  England,  at  tlie  castle  of  Amboise/  of  which 
Ranulf  de  Grlanville  was  governor,  an  upright  and  prudent 
man,  who  had  been  faithful  under  all  changes  of  fortune. 

In  these  wars  the  king  had  taken  prisoner  the  king  of 
Scotland  and  the  earls  of  Chester  and  Leicester,  besides  so 
many  nobles,  knights,  and  ofiicers,  on  both  sides  of  the 
French  sea,  that  they  could  hardly  find  fetters  and  dun- 
geons to  hold  them.  Bat  as  the  triumph  of  a  prince  over 
his  enemies  is  little  worth  unless  he  triumphs  over  himself, 
the  king,  after  the  many  victories  with  which  fortune  had 
favoured  him,  set  the  example  of  ruling  himself,  and  sub- 
duing his  own  spirit  and  indignation,  as  he  had  triumphed 
over  others,  and  restored  their  lives  and  honours  to  his  van- 
quished enemies.  And  such  was  his  rare  equanimity,  that 
in  victory  he  did  not  forget  clemency,  nor  moderation  in 
adversity.  Then,  after  all  the  trouble  and  weariness  of  this 
two  years'  war,  endured  to  no  purpose,  his  sons  submitted 
and  came  back,  having  made  professions  of  amity,  which 
turned  out  to  be  false. 

CHAPTEE  XLY. 

A  DESCEIFTI0:N"   0"P   HEITET   II.,  EIKG   OE  e:n'glaki>. 

It  were  not  amiss  in  this  place  to  draw  the  portrait  of  the 
king,  that  so  his  person  as  well  as  his  character  may 
be  familiar  to  posterity  ;  and  those  who  in  future  ages  shall 
hear  and  read  of  his  great  achievements,  may  be  able  to 
picture  him  to  themselves  as  he  was.  Eor  the  history  on 
which  I  am  employed  must  not  suffer  so  noble  an  ornament 
of  our  times  to  pass  away  with  only  a  slight  notice.  But 
herein  we  crave  pardon  for  speaking  the  exact  truth,  for 
without  it,  history  not  only  loses  all  authority,  but  does  not 
even  merit  the  name.  It  is  the  business  of  art  to  copy  na- 
ture, and  the  painter  is  not  to  be  trusted  who  exaggerates 
graces  and  conceals  blemishes. 

No  man  indeed  is  born  without  faults,  but  he  is  best  who 

The  treaty  which  restored  peace  to  Henry's  foreign  dominions,  wag 
made  between  Tours  and  Amboise,  on  the  30th  September,  1174.  It 
is  preserved  by  Wendover,  vol.  i.  p.  385.  It  is,  perhaps,  hardly  neces^- 
•ary  to  state  that  Ranulf  de  Grlanville  was  one  of  the  most  celebrated 
of  king  Henry's  ministers. 


250  THE   CONQUEST   OF.  lEELAND. 

has  the  least ;  and  the  wise  will  think  that  nothing  which 
concerns  mankind  is  devoid  of  interest.  There  is  no  cer- 
tainty in  worldly  matters,  and  no  perfect  happiness ;  good 
is  mixed  with  evil,  and  virtue  with  vice.  Wherefore,  if 
things  spoken  in  commendation  of  a  man's  disposition  or 
conduct  are  pleasant  to  the  ear,  it  should  not  be  taken 
amiss  if  his  faults  are  told.  It  was  the  remark  of  a  philo- 
sopher, that  princes  ought  to  be  treated  with  deference,  and 
not  exasperated  by  severe  things  being  said  of  them ;  and  a 
comic  writer  tells  us  that  smooth  words  make  friends,  but 
the  language  of  truth  makes  enemies ;  so  that  it  is  a  dan- 
gerous matter  to  say  anything  against  one  who  has  the 
power  of  revenging  himself ;  and  it  is  still  more  perilous,  and 
more  arduous  than  profitable,  to  describe  freely  and  in  many 
words  a  prince  who,  by  a  single  word,  can  consign  you  to 
ruin.  It  would  surely  be  a  pleasing  task,  but  I  confess  that 
it  is  one  beyond  my  powers,  to  tell  the  truth  respecting  a 
prince  in  everything  without  in  any  way  offending  him. 
But  to  the  purpose, 

Henry  II.,  king  of  England,  had  a  reddish  complexion, 
rather  dark,  and  a  large  round  head.  His  eyes  were  grey, 
bloodshot,  and  flashed  in  anger.  He  had  a  fiery  counte- 
nance, his  voice  was  tremulous,  and  his  neck  a  little  bent 
forward  ;  but  his  chest  was  broad,  and  his  arms  were  mus- 
cular. His  body  was  fleshy,  and  he  had  an  enormous 
paunch,  rather  by  the  fault  of  nature  than  from  gross  feed- 
ing. For  his  diet  was  temperate,  and  indeed  in  all  things, 
considering  he  was  a  prince,  he  was  moderate,  and  even  par- 
simonious. In  order  to  reduce  and  cure,  as  far  as  possible, 
this  natural  tendency  and  defect,  he  v/aged  a  continual  war, 
so  to  speak,  with  his  own  belly  by  taking  immoderate  exer- 
cise. For  in  time  of  war,  in  which  he  was  almost  always 
engaged,  he  took  little  rest,  even  during  the  intervals  of 
business  and  action.  Times  of  peace  were  no  seasons  of 
repose  and  indulgence  to  him,  for  he  was  immoderately  fond 
of  the  chase,  and  devoted  himself  to  it  with  excessive  ar- 
dour. At  the  first  dawn  of  day  he  would  mount  a  fleet 
horse,  and  indefatigably  spend,  the  day  in  riding  through  the 
woods,  penetrating  the  depths  of  forests,  and  crossing  the 
ridges  of  hills.  On  his  return  home  in  the  evening  he  was 
seldom  seen  to  sit  down,  either  before  he  took  his  supper  or 


DESCEIPTION    or    HENET    II.  251 

after ;  for,  notwithstanding  his  own  great  fatigue,  he  would 
weary  all  his  court  by  being  constantly  on  his  legs.  But  it 
is  one  of  the  most  useful  rules  in  life,  not  to  have  too  much 
of  any  one  thing,  and  even  medicine  is  not  in  itself  perfect 
and  always  to  be  used  ;  even  so  it  befel  this  king.  For  he 
had  frequent  swellings  in  his  legs  and  feet,  increased  much 
by  his  violent  exercise  on  horseback,  which  added  to  his 
other  complaints,  and  if  they  did  not  bring  on  serious  dis- 
orders, at  least  hastened  that  which  is  the  source  of  all,  old 
age.  In  stature  he  may  be  reckoned  among  men  of  mode- 
rate height,  which  was  not  the  case  with  either  of  his  sons  ; 
the  two  eldest  being  somewhat  above  the  middle  height, 
and  the  two  youngest  somewhat  below. 

When  his  mind  was  undisturbed,  and  he  was  not  in  an 
aDgry  mood,  he  spoke  with  great  eloquence,  and,  what  was 
remarkable  in  those  days,  he  was  well  learned.  He  was 
also  afiable,  flexible,  and  facetious,  and,  however  he  smothered 
his  inward  feelings,  second  to  no  one  in  courtesy.  "Withal, 
he  was  so  clement  a  prince,  that  when  he  had  subdued  his 
enemies,  he  was  overcome  himself  by  his  pity  for  them. 
Resolute  in  war,  and  provident  in  peace,  he  so  much  feared 
the  doubtful  fortune  of  the  former,  that,  as  the  comic  poet 
writes,  he  tried  all  courses  before  he  resorted  to  arms.  Those 
whom  he  lost  in  battle  he  lamented  with  more  than  a  prince's 
sorrow,  having  a  more  humane  feeling  for  the  soldiers  who 
had  fallen  than  for  the  survivors  ;  and  bewailing  the  dead 
more  than  he  cared  for  the  living.  In  troublesome  times 
no  man  was  more  courteous,  and  when  all  things  were  safe, 
no  man  more  harsh.  Severe  to  the  unruly,  but  clement  to 
the  humble  ;  hard  towards  his  own  household,  but  liberal  to 
strangers  ;  profuse  abroad,  but  sparing  at  home  ;  those  whom 
he  once  hated,  he  would  scarcely  ever  love,  and  from  those 
he  loved,  he  seldom  withdrew  his  regard.  He  was  inordi- 
nately fond  of  hawking  and  hunting,  whether  his  falcons 
stooped  on  their  prey,  or  his  sagacious  hounds,  quick  of 
scent  and  swift  of  foot,  pursued  the  chase.  Would  to  Grod 
he  had  been  as  zealous  in  his  devotions  as  he  was  in  his 
sports. 

It  is  said  that  after  the  grievous  dissensions  between  him 
and  his  sons,  raised  by  their  mother,  he  had  no  respect  for 
the  obligations  of  the  most  solemn  treaties.     True  it  is  that 


2o2  THE    COlsQUEST    OF    lEELAND. 

from  a  certain  natural  inconstancy  he  often  broke  his  word^ 
preferring  rather,  when  driven  to  straits,  to  forfeit  his  pro- 
mise than  depart  from  his  purpose.  In  all  his  doings  he 
was  provident  and  circumspect,  and  on  this  account  he  was 
sometimes  slack  in  the  administration  of  justice,  and,  to  his 
people's  great  cost,  his  decisions  on  all  proceedings  were 
dilatory.  Both  God  and  right  demand  that  justice  should  be 
administered  gratuitously,  yet  all  things  were  set  to  sale  and 
brought  great  wealth  both  to  the  clergy  and  laity  ;  but  their 
end  was  like  Gehazi's  gains. 

He  was  a  great  maker  of  peace,  and  kept  it  himself;  a 
liberal  alms-giver,  and  an  especial  benefactor  to  the  Holy 
Land.  He  loved  the  humble,  curbed  the  nobility,  and  trod 
down  the  proud  ;  filling  the  hungry  with  good  things,  and 
sending  the  rich  empty  away  ;  exalting  the  meek,  and  put- 
ting down  the  mighty  from  their  seat.  He  ventured  on 
many  detestable  usurpations  in  things  belonging  to  God, 
and  through  a  zeal  for  justice  (but  not  according  to  know- 
ledge), he  joined  the  rights  of  the  church  to  those  of  the 
crown,  and  therein  confused  them,  in  order  to  centre  all  in 
himself  Although  he  was  the  son  of  the  church,  and  re- 
ceived his  crown  from  her  hands,  he  either  dissembled  or 
forgot  the  sacramental  unction.  He  could  scarcely  spare  an 
hour  to  hear  mass,  and  then  he  was  more  occupied  in  coun- 
sels and  conversation  about  affairs  of  state  than  in  his  de- 
votions. The  revenues  of  the  churches  during  their  avoid- 
ance, he  drew  into  his  own  treasury,  laying  hands  on  that 
which  belonged  to  Christ ;  and  as  he  was  always  in  fresh 
troubles  and  engaged  in  mighty  wars,  he  expended  all  the 
money  he  could  get,  and  lavished  upon  unrighteous  soldiers 
what  was  due  to  the  priests.  In  his  great  prudence  he  de- 
vised many  plans,  which,  however,  did  not  all  turn  out  ac- 
cording to  his  expectations  ;  but  no  great  mishap  ever  oc- 
curred, which  did  not  originate  in  some  trifling  circum- 
stance. 

He  was  the  kindest  of  fathers  to  his  legitimate  children 
during  their  childhood  and  youth,  but  as  they  advanced  in 
years  looked  on  them  with  an  evil  eye,  treating  them  worse 
than  a  step-father ;  and  although  he  had  such  distinguished 
and  illustrious  sons,  whether  it  was  that  he  would  not  have 
them  prosper  too  fast,  or  whether  they  were  ill-deserving^ 


DESCEIPTION    OF    HEXRY    II.  2f)3 

ha  could  never  bear  to  think  of  them  as  his  successors. 
Aud  as  human  prosperity  can  neither  be  permanent  nor 
perfect,  such  was  the  exquisite  malice  of  fortune  against 
this  king,  that  where  he  should  hare  received  comfort  he 
met  with  opposition  ;  where  security,  danger ;  where  peace, 
turmoil ;  where  support,  ingratitude  ;  where  quiet  and  tran- 
quillity, disquiet  and  disturbance.  "Whether  it  happened 
from  unhappy  marriages,  or  for  the  punishment  of  the 
father's  sins,  there  was  never  any  good  agreement  either  of 
the  father  with  his  sons,  or  of  the  sons  with  their  parent, 
or  between  themselves. 

At  length,  all  pretenders  to  the  government  and  dis- 
turbers of  the  peace  being  put  down,  and  the  brothers,  his 
sons,  and  all  others,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  being  recon- 
ciled, all  things  succeeded  according  to  his  will.  AYould 
to  Grod  that  he  had,  even  late,  acknowledged  this  crowning 
proof  of  the  divine  mercy  by  works  worthy  of  repentance. 
1  had  almost  forgotten  to  mention  that  his  memory  was  so 
good,  that,  notwithstanding  the  multitudes  who  continually 
surrounded  him,  he  never  failed  of  recognizing  any  one  he 
had  ever  seen  before,  nor  did  he  forget  any  thing  important 
which  he  had  ever  heard.  He  was  also  master  of  nearly 
the  whole  course  of  history,  and  well  versed  in  almost  all 
matters  of  experience.  To  conclude  in  few  words :  if  this 
king  had  been  finally  chosen  of  Grod,  and  had  turned  himself 
to  obey  his  commands,  such  were  his  natural  endowments 
that  he  would  have  been,  beyond  all  comparison,  the  noblest 
of  all  the  princes  of  the  earth  in  his  times.  But  enough : 
let  what  I  have  written,  briefly  and  imperfectly  indeed,  but 
not  altogether  foreign  to  my  subject,  content  the  reader. 
Having  somewhat  cleared  the  way  for  other  writers  to  fol- 
low out  so  noble  a  passage  of  history,  we  will  now  return  to 
our  Ireland,  from  which  we  have  digressed. 


254  THE    CONQUEST    OF    IKELAWB. 


BOOK  II. 


Thtjs  far  I  have  continued  my  history  in  as  perfect  and  full 
order  as  I  could,  omitting  nothing  worthy  of  memory  which 
the  series  of  events  appeared  to  require.  But  being  much 
occupied  by  the  general  business  of  the  church  belonging 
to  my  station,  I  have  been  unable  to  command  much  leisure 
for  studious  pursuits.  Unwilling,  however,  to  leave  unfi- 
nished the  work  I  have  commenced,  I  am  resolved  to  con- 
tinue it  in  a  cursory  and  brief  way,  and  in  a  plain  and 
unadorned  style,  as  if  I  were  furnishing  posterity  with 
materials  for  history  rather  than  writing  it.  Tor  now  my 
leisure  is  changed  into  the  distraction  of  business,  my  stu- 
dies interrupted  by  animosities,  my  pleasure  turned  to  grief, 
the  tranquillity  I  possessed  to  grave  disquietude. 

The  liberal  arts  have  ceased  to  flourish,  having  given  place 
to  the  duties  of  war ;  mental  pursuits  are  no  longer  in 
vogue,  but  martial  exercises ;  the  muses  are  not  cultivated, 
but  skill  in  the  use  of  weapons ;  men  do  not  improve  their 
minds,  but  burnish  their  arms.  Wherefore  let  not  the 
reader  expect  either  order  or  ornament  in  this  part  of  my 
work ;  for  I  am  obliged  to  conform  to  present  circum- 
stances ;  and  as  the  times  are  troublous,  so  must  my  narra- 
tive be  disturbed  by  the  unsettled  state  of  afi"airs,  as  our 
inward  griefs  are  often  manifested  by  our  countenances  as 
well  as  by  our  words.  I  have,  however,  contrived  to  com- 
plete the  present  work  in  the  midst  of  the  preparations  for 
a  vast  enterprise,  though  not  without  much  thought  and 
mature  consideration,  as  if  I  were  on  a  journey;  and  like 
the  traveller  who,  setting  out  slowly,  hurries  forward  to 
make  up  for  the  delay. 


EATMO^s'D    COMMANDER    OT    THE    TEOOPS.  255 


CHAPTEE  I. 

now  EAEL  EICHAED  WAS  SENT  BACK  TO  lEELAND  AS  CHIEF 
GOVEENOE,  AND  THE  COMMAND  OF  THE  TEOOPS  GIYEN 
TO    EATMOND. 

On  his  return  to  Ireland,  the  people  there  having  heard  of 
the  great  troubles  in  parts  beyond  the  sea,  and  being  a 
race  constant  only  in  inconstancy,  to  be  reckoned  upon  for 
nothing  but  their  instability,  and  time  only  in  their  dis- 
loyalty, earl  Bichard  found  most  of  the  princes  of  the 
country  in  revolt  against  the  king  and  himself.  All  the 
treasure  he  brought  with  him  being  soon  spent,  and  there 
being  no  money  to  pay  the  soldiers,  the  earl's  own  troops, 
who  were  commanded  by  Hervey,  Raymond's  rival,  who  was 
still  constable,  not  being  able  to  subsist  by  plunder  as  they 
were  wont,  came  in  a  body  to  the  earl,  and  loudly  declared 
that  unless  Eaymond  was  appointed  their  commander  they 
would  at  once  quit  his  service,  and  either  return  to  England, 
or,  what  was  worse,  desert  to  the  enemy. 

CHAPTEE  II. 

HOW  RAYMOND  WAS  AOAIN  APPOINTED    COMMANDER  OF  THE 
EAEL's    OWN   TEOOPS. 

In  this  emergency,  Eaymond  was  appointed  to  the  com- 
mand, and  the  troops  recovering  their  spirits,  made  an  in- 
cursion into  the  district  of  Ophelan,^  and  carrying  off  an 
immense  booty,  obtained  means  of  being  fresh  mounted  and 
equipped.  From  thence  they  marched  to  Lismore,  and 
having  plundered  both  the  city  and  province,  conveyed 
their  spoils  by  the  coast  road  to  Waterford.  "With  these 
they  freighted  some  small  vessels  which  had  lately  arrived 
from  Wexford,  and  some  others  which  they  found  in  the 
port  of  Waterford.  While,  however,  they  were  waiting 
for  a  fair  wind,  thirty-two  ships  full  of  armed  men  came 
from  the  city  of  Cork,  distant  about  sixteen  miles  westward, 
for  the  purpose  of  attacking  them.     A  naval  engagement 

^  Offaly,  the  territory  of  a  petty  Irish  prince,  which  lay  on  the  upper 
course  of  the  Barrow,  in  what  is  now  called  King's  County. 


256  THE    COK^QUEST    OF    lEELA^^D. 

ensued,  the  Irish  making  a  fierce  attack,  armed  with  slingi 
and  darts,  and  the  English  repelling  it  with  arrows  and  iron 
bolts  from  their  cross-bows,  of  which  they  had  great  store. 
In  the  end,  the  men  of  Cork  were  defeated,  their  leader, 
Gilbert  mac  Turger,  being  slain  by  Philip  of  "Wales,  a 
young  soldier  of  great  prowess.  Then,  Adam  de  Hereford, 
who  commanded,  having  increased,  his  fleet  with  the  ships 
taken,  loaded  it  with  plunder  and  sailed  in  triumph  to 
Waterford. 

Meanwhile  Raymond,  who,  hearing  by  chance  of  this  en- 
gagement had  hastened  to  that  quarter  along  the  coast  road 
with  twenty  men-at-arms  and  sixty  common  soldiers,  fell  in 
with  Dermitius,  prince  of  Desmond,  and  defeated  him  at 
Lismore,  as  he  was  hastening  to  the  aid  of  the  men  of  Cork 
with  a  large  force  ;  Raymond  thus  took  four  thousand  head 
of  cattle,  and  brought  them  with  him  into  Waterford. 
About  the  same  time,  the  Irish  of  those  parts,  lurking  at 
the  entrance  of  the  woods,  drove  ofl"  some  few  of  the  cattle 
from  the  level  country  about  Waterford  into  the  thickets  at 
no  great  distance ;  but  an  alarm  being  raised  in  the  town, 
the  garrison  sallied  forth,  and  Meyler,  conspicuous  for  his 
headlong  valour,  followed  only  by  a  single  horseman,  pur- 
sued the  robbers  into  the  outskirts  of  the  wood.  Then, 
however,  he  intended  to  retreat,  but  urged  by  the  impetuosity 
of  his  follower,  a  rash  youth,  he  dashed  after  the  robbers  into 
the  deepest  thickets  ;  but  the  Irish  rushed  out  of  the  wood, 
and  severely  wounding  his  companion,  cut  him  to  pieces 
with  their  broad-axes.  Meyler,  thus  left  alone,  and  sur- 
rounded by  the  enemy  on  every  side,  drew  his  sword, 
and  charging  the  band,  boldly  cut  his  way  through  them, 
chopping  here  a  hand  and  there  an  arm*  besides  hewing 
through  heads  and  shoulders,  and  thus  rejoined  his  friends 
on  the  plain  unhurt,  though  he  brought  away  three  Irish 
spears  stuck  in  his  horse,  and  two  in  his  shield. 

CHAPTER  III. 

THE    SLAIIGHTEE    OF    THE   MEN   OF    DUBLIN   AT    OSSOET. 

Afteb  these  events,  the  troops  being  flushed  with  sue 
cess  both  bj  sea  and  land,  Raymond  crossed  the  sea  and 


EATMOND  EECALLED  TO  IEELaND.         257 

returned  to  Wales  in  consequence  of  tidings  he  received  of 
the  death  of  his  noble  father,  William  Fitzgerald,^  During 
his  absence  Hervey  was  again  appointed  constable,  and 
wishing  to  do  some  memorable  exploit,  he  brought  the  earl 
and  his  household  troops  to  Cashel.  The  militia  of  Dublin' 
were  also  commanded  to  support  them,  and  being  quartered 
for  the  night  at  Ossorj,  Duvenald  prince  of  Limerick,  a 
man  not  wanting  in  ability  for  one  of  his  nation,  having 
learnt  their  arrival  through  his  spies,  fell  on  them  at  dawn 
of  day,  and  taking  them  by  surprise,  slew  four  of  their 
commanders,  and  four  hundred  of  the  Ostmen.  On  receiv- 
ing intelligence  of  this  disaster,  the  earl  retreated  in  con- 
fusion to  Waterford,  and  the  consequence  was  that  all  the 
people  of  Ireland;  with  one  consent,  rose  in  arms  against 
the  English,  so  that  the  earl  was  like  one  besieged  in  Water- 
ford,  and  could  not  move  from  it.  Meanwhile,  Eoderic 
of  Connaught  crossed  the  river  Shannon,  and  invaded  Meath, 
at  the  head  of  a  numerous  force,  and,  finding  all  the  strong- 
holds evacuated  as  far  as  the  confines  of  Dublin,  he  burnt 
and  levelled  them  to  the  gTound. 


CHAPTEE  IV. 

HOW   EATMOND  WAS    EECALLED    TO  lEELATfD,  AND  MAEEIED 
BASILIA. 

The  earl  finding  himself  in  great  straits,  after  taking 
counsel,  as  his  last  refuge,  despatched  a  letter  to  Eaymond, 
in  Wales,  of  the  following  purport :  "  As  soon  as  you  have 
read  this  letter,  make  all  the  haste  you  can  to  come  over  to 
us  with  all  the  force  you  can  muster,  and  be  assured  that 
immediately  on  your  arrival,  I  will  give  you  my  sister  Ba- 
silia  in  marriage,  according  to  your  wishes."  On  receiving 
this  letter,  Eaymond  used  all  despatch  in  complying  with  it, 
both  for  love  of  the  noble  lady,  to  whom  he  had  been  long 

*  See  the  note  to  a  chapter  in  the  first  book,  on  the  family  of  Ray- 
mond-le-Gro8  ;  and  the  Pedigree  at  the  beginning  of  this  History. 

2  This  force,  as  we  shall  presently  find,  was  composed  of  the  Ostmen, 
or  independent  Norwegian  townsmen  of  Dublin,  whose  numbers  and 
power  have  been  mentioned  in  former  notes,  and  appear  from  this  nar- 
rative,  although  their  present  expedition  terminated  disastrously. 

B 


258  THE    CONQUEST    OP    lEELAND. 

ardently  attached,  and  from  his  desire  of  exhibiting  his 
prowess  and  carrying  succour  to  his  lord  in  his  time  of 
need.  Wherefore,  in  conjunction  with  his  cousin  Meyler 
and  other  men  of  condition  who  were  his  kinsmen,  he  has- 
tily collected  thirty  men-at-arms,  and  one  hundred  horse- 
soldiers,  with  three  hundred  bowmen,  the  best  in  "Wales,  and 
as  soon  as  the  wind  served,  transported  them  to  Waterford 
in  fifteen  ships. ^  At  that  very  time  the  citizens  of  Water- 
ford  were  in  a  state  of  insurrection,  and  raised  to  such  a 
pitch  of  fury  that  they  were  ready  to  massacre  all  the  En- 
glish wherever  they  could  lay  hands  on  them ;  when,  behold, 
they  saw  from  the  nearest  hill  the  well-known  ensigns  of 
Raymond's  fleet  entering  the  bay.  Their  sudden  arrival 
discomfited  the  rioters,  and  Eaymond  immediately  landing, 
and  marching  to  Waterford  without  loss  of  time,  released 
the  earl,  and  conducted  Mm  with  a  strong  force  to  Wex- 
ford. Meanwhile,  Tyrrell,^  his  governor  of  Waterford,  has- 
tening to  follow  him,  and  crossing  the  river  Suir  in  a  boat, 
was  slain  with  some  of  his  followers  by  the  Ostmen  who 
were  conveying  them  over  ;  and  as  soon  as  they  had  perpe- 
trated this  crime,  they  returned  to  the  city,  and  butchered 
some  of  the  English  in  the  streets  and  houses,  without  re- 
spect to  age  or  sex.  The  place  was,  however,  held  in  sub- 
mission by  the  garrison  of  Reginald's  Tower,  who  drove 
out  the  assassins,  and  the  other  rebels  were  at  last  reduced 
to  order,  their  treacherous  enterprise  being  frustrated,  with 
loss  to  themselves  both  in  credit  and  estate. 

Raymond,  urging  the  fulfilment  of  the  earl's  promises,  was 
not  content  to  leave  Wexford  until  messengers  were  sent  to 
Dublin  in  great  haste,  to  fetch  Basilia,  to  whom  he  was 
contracted.  The  marriage  having  been  solemnized,  and  the 
day  and  night  spent  in  feasting  and  pleasure,  news  was 
brought  in  the  midst  of  the  revelry  that  Roderic  of  Con- 
naught  had  made  an  irruption  from  the  borders  of  Meath 

'  Raymond's  elder  brother  Odo,  the  ancestor  of  the  Carews,  in- 
herited the  principal  estates  of  their  father,  on  whose  demise  Eaymond 
returned  to  Wales ;  but  he  probably  succeeded  to  possessions  which 
enabled  him  to  equip  this  powerful  armament  on  a  much  more  eiten- 
wve  scaie  than  that  with  which  he  first  went  over  to  Ireland,  and  also 
made  him  a  more  suitable  match  for  the  earl's  daughter. 

^  FreseUus,  in  the  text,  but  corrected  to  TyreUus  in  the  margin,  of 
the  printed  edition. 


INTEEMAERIAGEfl.  259 

up  to  tlie  very  walls  of  Dublin.  On  the  morrow  Raymond, 
forwtting  wine  and  love,  mustered  troops,  and  marched  in 
haste  to  repel  the  enemy.  Roderie,  however,  who  had 
before  experienced  his  valour,  did  not  wait  his  coming,  but 
retreated  in  alarm  to  his  own  territories.  Having  restored 
order  in  those  parts,  and  the  castles  of  Trim  and  Dunluce 
in  Meath,  which  had  been  razed  to  the  ground,  and  aban- 
doned by  Hugh  Tyrrell,  the  governor  thereof,  having 
been  repaired  by  Raymond,  and  put  into  a  better  condition, 
the  island  enjoyed  peace  for  a  time,  in  consequence  of  the 
terror  struck  by  his  successes. 

CHAPTER  Y. 

INTEEMAERIAGES  AMONQ  THE  EAIFILIES    EEOM   WALES,  AND 
TEERITOEIAL    GRANTS. 

Heevet,  being  envious  of  the  increase  of  Raymond's  glory 
and  his  continued  prosperity,  and  unable  to  wreak  his  malice 
on  him  openly,  sought  how  he  might  injure  him  in  the  dark. 
He  therefore  became  a  suitor  to  Raymond's  cousin  Nesta, 
the  daughter  of  Maurice  Fitzgerald,  and  succeeded  in  mar- 
rying her ;  his  object  being  to  have  better  opportunities  of 
effecting  Raymond's  ruin,  under  cover  of  his  connections 
with  him  by  this  marriage.  Raymond  also,  to  consolidate 
the  union  among  the  English,  induced  the  earl  to  give  his 
daughter  Alina  in  marriage  to  William,  the  eldest  son  of 
Maurice  Fitzgerald.^  The  earl  also,  having  invited  Maurice 
to  leave  Wales  and  come  over  again  to  Ireland,  gave  him 
the  middle  cantred  of  Offaly,  which  the  king  had  granted 
to  the  earl,  with  the  castle  of  Wicklow,  to  be  held  as  a 
fief  under  him.  Meyler,  as  the  lord  marcher,  had  the  fron- 
tier cantred  ;  and  the  one  nearest  to  Dublin,  which  the  kin^ 
had  formerly  granted  to  the  two  Fitz- Stephens,  was  now 
given  to  the  brothers  from  Hereford.'^ 


^  For  these  intermarriages  and  family  connexions,  see  the  Pedigree 
at  the  beginning  of  tliis  History. 

2  "We  find  elsewhere  the  names  of  three  brothers  from  Hereford  en- 
f^aged  in  these  transactions,  Adam,  John,  and  Richard.  Adam  com- 
manded the  fleet  which  defeated  that  of  Cork,  as  related  just  before,  in 
ditp.  ii. 


260  THE  CONQUEST  OF  lEELAKD. 

CHAPTEE  VI. 

KINa  HENET   OBTAINS   A  PAPAL   BULL   OF   SKJHTS. 

Meanwhile,  although  the  king  was  detained  and  much  oc« 
cupied  by  the  wars,  in  the  midst  of  all  he  was  not  forgetfal 
of  his  dominions  in  Ireland,  nor  of  the  decrees  made  in  the 
synod  of  Cashel,  before  mentioned,^  for  the  reformation  of 
manners.  He  therefore  sent  envoys  to  pope  Adrian,  a 
native  of  England,  who  then  filled  the  Eoman  see,  request- 
ing him  to  grant  a  bull  of  privileges,  by  which,  with  the 
pope's  authority  and  consent,  he  should  be  lord  of  Ireland, 
and  have  the  power  of  reforming  the  Irish  people,  who 
were  then  very  ignorant  of  the  rudiments  of  the  faith,  by 
ecclesiastical  rules  and  discipline,  according  to  the  usages  of 
the  English  church.  This  bull  of  privileges  was  brought  over 
to  Ireland  by  Nicholas,  then  prior  of  Wallingford,  but  after- 
wards abbot  of  Malmesbury,  and  William  Eitz-Aldelm ;  and 
a  synod  of  the  bishops  being  convoked  at  Waterford,  the 
said  bull  of  privileges  was  read  at  a  public  sitting,  and  with 
universal  assent,  by  John  of  Salisbury,^  afterwards  bishop 
of  Chartres,  who  was  sent  to  Rome  on  this  affair,  and  by 
whose  hands  the  pope  sent  to  the  king  a  gold  ring  in  token 
of  the  investiture ;  which  ring  and  the  pope's  bull  were  im- 
mediately afterwards  deposited  among  the  archives  at  Win- 
chester. The  tenor  of  this  instrument  I  have  thought  it 
not  amiss  to  insert  in  this  place.  It  was  to  the  following 
effect : 

•'  Adrian  the  bishop,  the  servant  of  the  servants  of  God^ 
to  his  most  dearly  beloved  son  in  Christ,  the  illustrious  king 
of  England,  sendeth  greeting^  with  the  apostolical  benediC' 
Hon} 

'  Your  majesty  (jtua  magnificentia)  laudably  and  profitably 

'  B.  i.  c.  33.  2  John  of  Salisbury,  bishop  of  Chartres,  one 

of  the  most  learned  scholars  of  the  age. 

3  Adrian  IV.  held  tlie  papal  see  1155—1159.  A  copy  of  the  grant 
of  Ireland  made  by  this  pope  to  Henry  II.  is  also  preserved  by  Roger 
de  Wendover,  who  says  that  it  -was  obtained  in  1155  ;  so  that  Henry'» 
designs  on  Ireland,  though  early  entertained,  seem  to  have  long  slum- 
bered.    Even  when  the   application  for  assistance  made  by  Dermot 


HENRY    OBTAINS    A   PAPAL    BULL    OF    EIOHTS.         261 

considers  how  you  may  best  promote  your  glory  on  earth, 
and  lay  up  for  yourself  an  eternal  reward  in  heaven,  when, 
as  becomes  a  catholic  prince,  you  labour  to  extend  the  bor- 
ders of  the  church,  to  teach  the  truths  of  the  christian 
faith  to  a  rude  and  unlettered  people,  and  to  root  out  the 
weeds  of  wickedness  from  the  field  of  the  Lord ;  for  this 
purpose  you  crave  the  advice  and  assistance  of  the  apostolic 
see,  and  in  so  doing  we  are  persuaded  that  the  higher  are 
your  aims,  and  the  more  discreet  your  proceedings,  the 
greater,  under  God,  will  be  your  success.  For  those  who 
begin  with  zeal  for  the  faith,  and  love  for  religion,  may 
always  have  the  best  hopes  of  bringing  their  undertakings 
to  a  prosperous  end.  It  is  beyond  all  doubt,  as  your  high- 
ness acknowledgeth,  that  Ireland  and  all  the  other  islands 
on  which  the  light  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  has  da\vned,  and 
which  have  received  the  knowledge  of  the  Christian  faith, 
do  of  right  belong  and  appertain  to  St.  Peter  and  the  holy 
Roman  church.  Wherefore  we  are  the  more  desirous  to 
80W  in  them  the  acceptable  seed  of  Grod's  word,  because  we 
know  that  it  will  be  strictly  required  of  us  hereafter.  You 
have  signified  to  us,  our  well-beloved  son  in  Christ,  that  you 
propose  to  enter  the  island  of  Ireland  in  order  to  subdue 
the  people,  and  make  them  obedient  to  laws,  and  to  root  out 
from  among  them  the  weeds  of  sin  ;  and  that  you  are  willing 
to  yield  and  pay  yearly  from  every  house  the  pension  of  one 
penny  to  St.  Peter,  and  to  keep  and  preserve  the  rights  of 
the  churches  in  that  land  whole  and  inviolate.  We  there- 
fore, regarding  your  pious  and  laudable  design  with  due 
favour,  and  graciously  assenting  to  your  petition,  do  hereby 
declare  our  will  and  pleasure,  that,  for  the  purpose  of  en- 
larging the  borders  of  the  church,  setting  bounds  to  the 
progress  of  wickedness,  reforming  evil  manners,  planting 
virtue,  and  increasing  the   christian  religion,  you  do  enter 


mac  Murrough  in  1172,  gave  him  a  pretext  for  interfering  in  Irish 
aiTairs,  he  gave  him  only  empty  promises  of  relief,  and  the  first  ex- 
peditions to  Ireland  were  undertaken  by  private  adventurers,  and  if, 
with  the  king's  tacit  consent,  he  afterwards  disavowed  it.  Henry 
procured  a  confirmation  of  pope  Adrian's  grant  from  his  successor, 
Alexander  III.  There  is  a  translation  of  it  in  Hooker's  edition  of 
the  History  of  Giraldus.  The  grant  appears  to  have  been  made  ia 
1172. 


262  THE    CONQUEST    OF    IRELAND. 

and  take  possession  of  that  island,  and  execute  therein 
whatsoever  shall  be  for  Grod's  honour  and  the  welfare  of  the 
same.  And  further,  we  do  also  strictly  charge  and  require 
that  the  people  of  that  land  shall  accept  you  with  all  honour, 
and  dutifully  obey  you,  as  their  liege  lord,  saving  only  the 
rights  of  the  churches,  which  we  will  have  inviolably  pre- 
served; and  reserving  to  St.  Peter  and  the  holy  Eoman 
church  the  yearly  pension  of  one  penny  from  each  house.  If 
therefore  you  bring  your  purpose  to  good  effect,  let  it  be  your 
study  to  improve  the  habits  of  that  people,  and  take  such 
orders  by  yourself,  or  by  others  whom  you  shall  think  fitting, 
for  their  lives,  manners,  and  conversation,  that  the  church 
there  may  be  adorned  by  them,  the  christian  faith  be  planted 
and  increased,  and  all  that  concerns  the  honour  of  G-od  and 
the  salvation  of  souls  be  ordered  by  you  in  like  manner ; 
so  that  you  may  receive  at  God's  hands  the  blessed  reward 
of  everlasting  life,  and  may  obtain  on  earth  a  glorious  name 
in  ages  to  come." 

CHAPTER  YII. 

HOW  THE  KING  OF  ENGLAND  HAS  A  EIGHT  TO  IRELAND 
ON  FIYE  GROUNDS. 

Let,  then,  the  envious  and  ignorant  cease  their  cavillings 
that  the  kings  of  England  have  no  right  or  title  to  Ireland ; 
and  let  them  learn  that  they  can  avouch  and  defend  their 
right  in  five  manner  of  ways,  two  old  and  three  new,  as  is 
set  forth  in  my  Topography.^ 

Eirst,  we  have  the  testimony  of  the  British  History,  that 
Gurguntius,  the  son  of  Belinus,  and  king  of  Britain,  on  his 
return  in  triumph  from  Denmark,  met  the  fleet  of  the  Bas- 
clenses  at  the  Orkney  islands,  and  set  them  forward  to  Ire- 
land, giving  them  pilots  to  direct  their  course  thither.^  The 
same  history  informs  us  also  that  Arthur,  the  renowned 
king  of  Britain,  had  kings  of  Ireland  tributary  to  him,  and 
that  Gillomarus,  king  of  Ireland,  with  other  kings  of  the 
isles,  came  to  his  court  at  Caerleon. 

Moreover,  the  city  of  Bayonne,  which  belongs  at  present  to 
ftir  Gascony,  is  the  capital  of  Basclonia,  from  whence  the 

1  Distinct,  iii.  cc  8,  9.  2  n,.  c.  8. 


CAPTUEE    OF    LIMEEICK.  208 

Irisli  migrated.  And  besides  this,  as  every  one  may  renounce 
his  rights  of  his  own  free  will,  although  he  has  been  up  to  that 
time  under  no  subjection,  all  the  princes  of  Ireland  volun- 
tarily submitted  to  Henry  II.,  king  of  England,  doing  him 
fealty  and  taking  oaths  of  allegiance  to  him.  And  although 
these  men,  from  natural  inconstancy,  did  not  shrink  from 
often  breaking  their  fealty,  they  were  not  thereby  absolved 
from  its  obligations ;  for  contracts  of  this  sort,  though  en- 
tered into  of  free  will,  are  not  free  to  be  broken.  Finally, 
we  have  the  authority  of  the  Pope,  the  prince  and  primate 
of  all  Christendom,  who  claims  a  sort  of  especial  right  in  all 
islands  whatsoever  ;  and  that  is  enough  to  complete  the  title 
and  give  it  absolute  confirmation.^ 


CHAPTER  YIII. 

THE   NOBLE   ASSAULT   AND    T  AKIN  a   OF   LIMEEICK. 

In  the  meantime,  Duvenald  prince  of  Limerick,  having  waxed 
very  insolent,  and  faithlessly  withdrawn  from  his  fealty  to 
the  king  of  England,  Raymond  assembled  a  strong  force  of 
one  hundred  and  twenty  men-at-arms,  three  hundred  horse 
soldiers,  and  four  hundred  archers  on  foot,  marched  about 
the  calends  (the  1st)  of  October  to  attack  Limerick.  AVhen 
they  reached  the  water  of  Shannon,  which  runs  round  that 
famous  city,  they  found  the  river  so  rapid  and  deep  that 
they  could  not  cross  it ;  and  the  gallant  troops,  bent 
on  both  glory  and  plunder,  were  very  impatient  at  the 
obstacle  opposed  to  their  approach  to  the  place  which  they 
were  so  eager  to  attack.  However,  a  young  soldier,  Ray- 
mond's nephew,  whose  name  was  David  AVelsh,  taking  his 
surname  from  his  family,  though  he  was  also  a  Welshman 

^  Howevei"  it  might  be  consistent  in  a  writer  of  the  age  of  Giraldus 
to  gloss  over  the  injustice  of  king  Henry's  pretensions  to  the  dominion 
of  Ireland  by  reference  to  antiqviated  claims  or  papal  bulls,  four-fifths 
of  the  grounds  for  them  alleged  in  this  chapter  are  too  puerile  to  merit 
a  single  remark.  The  remaining  one,  the  cession  of  their  supremacy  by 
the  Irisli  princes,  on  which  our  author  appears  to  place  most  reliance, 
resolves  itself  into  the  right  of  conquest  5  as  the  submission  was  extorted 
by  force  of  arms,  and  that  in  all  such  cases  forms  an  incontrovertibk 
tide. 


264  THB  coi^-QgEST  or  ieeland. 

born,  a  handsome  youtli,  and  tall  above  tlie  rest,  was  so 
chafed  at  the  delay,  that,  willing  to  risk  his  life  to  win 
honour,  he  put  spurs  to  his  horse  and  plunged  into  the 
river,  although  the  bottom  was  full  of  rocks  and  stones.  By- 
crossing  obliquely,  he  was  able  to  stem  the  current ;  and 
his  noble  horse  landing  him  safely  on  the  opposite  bank,  he 
shouted  to  his  comrades  that  he  had  discovered  a  ford ;  but, 
notwithstanding  this,  no  one  would  cross  after  him  but  a 
man-at-arms  whose  name  was  Greoffrey  Judas. 

Both  then  returned  to  guide  the  rest  of  the  army  over 
the  ford,  but  in  so  doing  Geoffrey  was  carried  away  by  the 
stream  and  drowned-  Meyler,  who  had  come  with  Ray- 
mond in  this  expedition,  perceiving  this,  and  burning  to 
share  the  honour  of  the  bold  enterprise  with  Diavid,  who 
was  also  his  near  kinsman,  spurred  his  strong  horse,  and 
dashing  furiously  into  the  river,  full  of  emulation,  and  no- 
thing daunted  by  the  terrible  example  he  had  just  witnessed, 
resolutely  crossed  to  the  other  side.  There,  however,  he 
was  met  by  some  of  the  citizens  of  Limerick,  who,  with 
others  stationed  on  the  town  walls,  which  commanded  the 
river  bank,  showered  stones  and  darts  upon  him,  with  the 
determination  to  drive  him  back  or  slay  him  on  the  spot. 
The  brave  soldier,  finding  himself  placed  in  the  midst  of 
perils,  before  him  the  furious  enemy,  behind  him  the  foam- 
ing stream,  stood  his  ground  stoutly,  receiving  the  missiles 
on  his  helmet  and  shield. 

The  loud  shouts  on  both  sides  called  Eaymond  from  the 
rear,  where  he  was  posted  as  commander  of  the  troops, 
unconscious  of  what  had  happened.  Whereupon,  putting 
spurs  to  his  horse,  and  galloping  to  the  river  bank,  he  saw 
his  nephew's  danger,  thus  exposed,  unsupported,  to  the 
enemy's  attacks,  and  in  great  agitation  loudly  called  to  hia 
fcroops  as  follows : — 

Raymond* s  Speech. 

"  My  Men — I  know  well  your  native  valour,  tried  as  it 
has  been  in  so  many  hard  encounters.  Come,  then,  my  men, 
the  daring  of  our  friends  has  discovered  a  ford  by  which  we 
may  pass  the  river.  Let  us  follow  the  brave  youth  who 
has  led  the  way  so  nobly  for  himself  and  so  happily  for  us. 
"We  must  not  let  him  perish  before  our  eyes." 


DESCEIPTION   OF    EATMOND.  265 

"With  these  words,  Eaymond,  putting  himself  at  their  head, 
plunged  first  into  the  river,  committing  himself  to  fortune, 
and  all  the  troops  followed  his  example,  striving  who  should 
be  foremost  The  whole  force  passed  the  ford  safely,  except 
two  horsemen  and  one  foot-soldier,  and  driving  the  enemy 
within  the  walls,  followed  them  up  with  great  slaughter,  and 
carried  the  place  by  storm.  Enriched  by  the  plunder  of 
the  city,  and  having  gained  great  renown,  their  perils  and 
losses  were  well  compensated.^ 

Header,  which  of  the  three  men  I  have  mentioned,  think- 
est  thou  the  most  valiant  ?  Him,  who  first  set  the  example 
by  crossing  the  river  and  finding  a  passage  for  the  rest ;  or 
him,  who  following  the  example,  and  having  before  his  eyes 
the  fearful  spectacle  of  his  comrade's  death,  crossed  in  the 
face  of  the  enemy,  and  exposed  himself,  alone  and  unsup- 
ported, to  their  attack  ;  or  him,  who,  after  all,  so  nobly 
jeopardized  himself  and  his  whole  force  to  succour  his 
friend  ?  It  is  worthy  of  notice,  that  as  Limerick  was  taken 
on  a  Tuesday,  and  also  recovered  on  a  Tuesday,  so  Waterford, 
"Wexford,  and  Dublin,  were  all  taken  on  Tuesdays,  And  this 
did  not  happen  by  design,  but  by  mere  chance  ;  nor  can  it  be 
wondered  or  thought  unreasonable,  that  martial  afi'airs  should 
be  brought  to  a  point  on  the  day  of  Mars  [Tuesday]. 

CHAPTEE  IX. 

DESCEIPTION    OP    EAYMOND. 

Katmois^d  was  very  stout,^  and  a  little  above  the  middle 
height ;  his  hair  was  yellow  and  curly,  and  he  had  large, 
grey  round  eyes.  His  nose  was  rather  prominent,  his 
countenance  high-coloured,  cheerful,  and  pleasant ;  and, 
although  he  was  somewhat  corpulent,  he  was  so  lively 
and  active,  that  the  incumbrance  was  not  a  blemish  or 
inconvenience.  Such  was  his  care  of  his  troops  that  he 
passed  whole  nights  without  sleep,  going  the  rounds  of  the 
guards  himself,  and  challenging  the  sentinels  to  keep  them 

1  Limerick,  as  we  have  already  remarked,  was  a  Scandinavian  colony, 
which  accounts  both  for  the  great  booty  taken  in  a  place  enriched  by 
commerce,  and  for  the  stont  resistance  the  townsmen  opposed  to  the 
invaders  both  on  this  and  a  subsequent  occasion. 

'  Hence  he  is  sometimes  called,  as  we  have  before  observed,  Ray- 
moad  le  Gros. 


THE    CONQUEST    OF    lEELATiD. 

on  the  alert.  Througli  this  constant  watchfulness  he  had  the 
good  fortune  of  never,  or  very  seldom,  having  the  troops 
he  commanded  taken  by  surprise,  or  getting  into  any 
difficulties. 

He  was  prudent  and  temperate,  not  effeminate  in  either 
his  food  or  dress.  He  bore  heat  and  cold  equally  well.  He 
was  not  given  to  anger,  and  was  insensible  to  fatigue.  Think- 
ing more  how  he  could  promote  the  welfare  of  his  men  than  of 
commanding  them,  he  was  their  servant  rather  than  their 
master.  To  sum  up  his  excellencies  in  few  words,  he  was  a 
liberal,  kind,  and  circumspect  man ;  and  although  a  daring 
soldier  and  consummate  general,  even  in  military  affairs 
prudence  was  his  highest  quality. 


CHAPTER  X. 

DESCEIPTIOI^    OF    METLEE. 

In  person,  Meyler  was  of  a  dark  complexion,  with  black 
eyes,  and  a  stern  and  piercing  look.  Below  the  middle 
height,  for  his  size  he  was  a  man  of  great  strength.  Broad- 
chested  and  not  corpulent,  his  arms  and  other  limbs  were 
bony  aud  muscular,  and  not  encumbered  with  fat.  An  in- 
trepid and  adventurous  soldier,  he  never  shrunk  from  any 
enterprise,  whether  singly  or  in  company ;  and  was  the  first 
in  the  onset,  the  last  in  retreat.  In  every  engagement  with 
the  enemy  he  would  either  carry  the  day  at  all  hazards,  or 
die  on  the  spot ;  knowing  no  medium  between  victory  and 
death  ;  for  if  he  could  not  live  with  glory,  he  preferred  to 
die.  Both  Raymond  and  Meyler  would  have  deserved  the 
highest  praise,  if  they  had  been  less  ambitious  of  worldly 
honours,  and  had  paid  due  reverence  to  the  church  of  Christ, 
not  only  by  preserving  its  ancient  rights  and  privileges 
inviolate,  but  also  by  hallowing  their  new  and  sanguinary 
conquest,  in  which  so  much  blood  had  been  shed,  and  which 
was  stained  by  the  slaughter  of  a  christian  people,  by  libe- 
rally contributing  some  portion  of  their  spoils  for  religious 
uses.  But  it  is  still  strange,  and  more  to  be  lamented,  that 
this  has  been  the  common  failing  of  all  our  countrymen 
engaged  in  these  wars,  from  their  first  coming  over  to  the 
present  day. 


COMMENDATION    OF    THE    FAMILY. 


Tke  Commendation  of  the  rest  of  the  Family. 


mi 


"What  shall  we  say  of  the  merits  of  the  sons  of  Robert 
Fitz-Stephen  in  these  times?  What  of  Maurice  Fitz- 
gerald ?  What  of  Robert  de  Barri,  an  honest  and  brave  man, 
whose  good  deserts  have  been  already  mentioned  ?  What 
shall  be  said  of  Milo  de  Cogan,  the  nephew  of  Fitz-Stephen 
and  Maurice,  who  was  the  first  to  come  over,  and  was  the 
foremost  among  the  brave  ?  What  of  Robert  Fitz-Henry, 
Meyler's  brother,  who,  but  for  his  premature  death,  would 
doubtless  have  not  been  inferior  to  his  noble  brother? 
What  of  Raymond  of  Kantitune,  and  of  Robert  de  Barri 
the  younger,  both  tall,  handsome,  and  most  excellent  men  ? 
What  of  Raymond  Fitz-Hugh,  who  was,  indeed,  short  in 
stature,  but  for  his  bravery  and  prudence  not  to  be  passed 
over  ?  These  three  young  men,  after  distinguishing  them- 
selves by  their  gallant  conduct  in  Desmond,  were  cut  off 
in  the  prime  of  youth,  much  to  the  loss  of  their  friends, 
led  on  by  their  impetuous  valour?  What  shall  we  say 
of  many  others  of  the  same  kindred,  whose  chivalrous 
deeds  will  make  their  names  memorable  to  the  latest 
posterity. 

"  Non  mihi  si  liiiguse  centum  sint,  oraqiie  centum, 
Ferrea  vox,  digne  promere  cuncta  queam." 

"  Had  I  a  hundred  mouths,  a  hundred  tongues, 
A  voice  of  iron,  to  exact  your  praise, 
I  yet  shoidd  fail." 

O  family !  O  race !  indeed  it  is  doubly  noble ;  deriving 
their  courage  from  the  Trojans,  and  their  skill  in  arms  from 
the  French.  Sucb  a  kindred  and  race,  remarkable  not  only 
for  its  numerous  branches  but  for  its  innate  valour,  would 
of  itself  have  been  equal  to  the  conquest  of  a  kingdom,  had 
not  envy  and  malice  succeeded  in  lowering  its  high  estate. 

Raymond  spent  a  short  time  at  Limerick  in  well-ordering 
the  state  of  the  city,  and  having  stored  it  with  provisions 
collected  from  all  the  country  round,  he  placed  there  a  gar- 
rison consisting  of  fifty  men-at-arms,  two  hundred  horsemen, 
and  as  many  archers,  under  the  command  of  !Milo  of  St. 


268  THE  CONQrEST  OF  lEELAND. 

David's^  his  cousin;  and  then  returned  triumphant  into 
Leinster,  without  losing  any  of  his  troops.  But  as  virtue 
is  ever  exposed  to  the  shafts  of  envy,  Hervey  de  Montmau- 
rice,  who,  notwithstanding  his  new  relationship,  was  still  in- 
fluenced by  his  former  malice,  sent  messengers  privately  to 
the  king  of  England,  from  time  to  time,  with  unfavourable 
representations  of  the  state  of  affairs.  He  affirmed  that 
Baymond,  in  derogation  of  the  royal  dignity,  and  con- 
trary to  his  own  fealty,  evidently  designed  to  secure  to  him- 
self and  his  accomplices,  not  only  the  dominion  of  Limerick, 
but  the  sovereignty  of  all  Ireland.  And  to  give  colour  and 
credit  to  these  statements,  he  asserted  that  Eaymond  had 
levied  troops  in  the  manner  of  the  Bragmans,  who  were 
confederated  with  him  to  effect  his  purpose.  Eaymond  had 
also  made  his  whole  army  swear  to  bring  all  their  plunder 
into  a  common  stock,  and  divide  it  fairly  among  themselves, 
reserving  the  prince's  share. 

CHAPTEE  XI. 

DESCRIPTION    or    HERVEY. 

Heryet  was  a  tall  and  handsome  man,  with  grey  and  rather 
prominent  eyes,  a  pleasant  look,  fine  features,  and  a  com- 
mand of  polished  language.  His  neck  was  so  long  and 
slender  that  it  seemed  scarcely  able  to  support  his  head  ; 
his  shoulders  were  low,  and  both  his  arms  and  legs  were 
somewhat  long.  He  had  rather  a  broad  breast ;  but  was 
small  and  genteel  in  the  waist,  which  is  generally  apt  to 
swell  too  much,  and,  lower  down,  his  stomach  was  of 
the  same  moderate  proportion.  His  thighs,  legs,  and  feet, 
were  well  shaped  for  a  soldier,  and  finely  proportioned  to 
the  upper  part  of  his  body.  In  stature  he  was  above 
the  middle  height.  But  although  nature  thus  endowed 
him  with  many  personal  graces,  she  had  given  him  a 
mind  and  disposition  stained  with  many  vices.  Erom  a  boy 
he  was  addicted  to  lascivious  habits,  and  lent  himself  to  all 
kinds  of  pollution,  which  he  practised  on  others,  there  being 
no  sort  of  filthiness  or  adultery  from  which  he  abstained. 
Besides  this,  he  was  spiteful,  a  false  accuser,  double-faced,  full 

1  Called  generally  by  our  autlior  Milo  dc   Cogan.      See  the  note  oi 
ft  former  chapter. 


BELIEF    OF    THE    GAERISON   IN  LIMEEICZ.  269 

of  wiles,  and  smooth,  but  false.  Under  his  tongue  was  honey 
and  milk  mingled  with  poison.  A  man  of  no  principle,  lie 
was  consistent  only  in  being  constantly  wavering.  In  hia 
fortunes  he  was  for  a  time  at  the  top  of  the  wheel,  but  by  a 
sudden  turn  he  fell  to  the  bottom,  and  was  plunged  into  irre- 
parable ruin.  Formerly  he  was  a  very  good  soldier  after 
the  French  school,  but  now  lie  is  more  remarkable  for  his 
malice  than  his  gallantry,  more  full  of  deceit  than  Honour, 
more  puffed  up  with  pride  than  respected,  more  vidtty  than 
sensible,  more  wordy  than  truthful. 

The  king,  however,  as  it  turned  out,  putting  more  trust 
in  his  false  accusations  than  they  merited,  injurious  re- 
ports are  more  readily  believed,  and  make  a  longer  impres- 
sion, than  accounts  of  services  rendered,  as  soon  as  the  win- 
ter was  passed,  sent  over  to  Ireland  four  commissioners, 
namely,  Eobert  Poer,  Osbert  de  Herlotera,  William  de  Ben- 
denges,  and  Adam  de  Yarmouth,  two  of  whom  returned 
with  Eaymond,  who  was  recalled  to  England,  and  the  other 
two  remained  with  the  earl. 

CHAPTEE  XII. 

BELIEF    OF   THE    EOTAL    aAEEISON   IN   LIMEEICK. 

Eatmond  having  made  all  preparations  for  his  departure, 
while  he  was  only  waiting  for  a  favourable  wind,  messengers 
arrived  from  the  garrison  in  Limerick  with  the  intelligence 
that  Duvenald  prince  of  Thomond  had  blockaded  the  town 
on  all  sides  with  a  vast  multitude  of  men ;  and  that  as  all  the 
stores  of  provisions  which  they  had  found  in  the  place,  or 
afterwards  drawn  in,  were  exhausted  during  the  winter,  they 
were  in  need  of  immediate  succour.  The  earl  being  anxious 
to  march  to  their  relief,  mustered  his  own  troops  and  an- 
nounced his  intention,  but  he  found  them  so  dissatisfied 
and  dispirited  at  Eaymond's  recal,  that  they  all  declared 
with  one  voice  that  they  would  not  go  on  the  expedition 
without  him.  Being  in  this  strait,  and  after  consulting  the 
royal  commissioners,  Eaymond  at  last  consented,  at  the 
joint  request  of  the  earl  and  the  messengers  from  Limerick, 
to  head  the  troops  destined  to  the  relief  of  the  garrison. 
They  consisted  of  eighty  men-at-arms,  two  hundred  horse- 
soldiers,  and  three  hundred  archers,  besides  a  body  of  Irish 


270  THE  COHQUEST  OF  lEELAND. 

under  Murchard  of  Kinsaxe  and  Duvenald  of  Ossory  ;  and 
while  they  were  on  their  march  towards  Cashel,  Uaymond 
learnt  that  the  prince  of  Thomond  had  raised  the  siege,  and 
posted  himself  at  the  pass  of  Cashel,  w^here  he  intended 
to  attack  them,  having  added  to  the  natural  strength  of  the 
position  by  felling  trees  and  digging  trenches,  and  by  throw- 
ing a  very  strong  rampart  across  the  road. 

CHAPTER  XIII. 

THE    SPEECH    OF   DTJVENALD    PEINCE    OF    OSSOET. 

Ratmot^d  had  formed  his  army  in  three  divisions,  and,  when 
they  drew  near  the  pass,  Duvenald  prince  of  Ossory,  being  a 
mortal  enemy  to  the  Thomond  people,  and  observing  how 
few  in  number  were  the  English  troops,  though  they  were 
full  of  spirit  and  well  arrayed  in  their  bright  armour,  thus 
addressed  them,  still  further  to  animate  their  courage. 
"  Brave  soldiers,  and  conquerors  of  this  island,  we  must  this 
day  manfully  attack  the  enemy ;  for  if  your  wonted  valour 
is  victorious  in  the  onset,  the  Irish  battle-axes  will  second 
your  swords  in  following  up  their  defeat  with  effect.  But 
if  we  find  your  ranks  give  way,  which  Grod  forbid,  it  may 
chance  that,  in  conjunction  with  the  enemy,  they  will  be 
turned  against  you.  Look  well,  therefore,  men,  to  your- 
selves ;  there  are  no  strongholds  near  us,  we  are  far  from 
any  place  of  refuge.  It  is  our  custom  to  side  with  the  win- 
ning party,  and  to  fall  on  those  who  run  away.  Trust  to 
us  therefore ;  but  only  while  you  are  conquerors." 

Upon  hearing  this,  Meyler,  who  led  the  van,  rushed  like 
a  whirlwind,  at  the  head  of  his  men,  into  the  pass,  and  tear- 
ing down  the  rampart,  they  thus  cut  their  way  through  the 
enemy  with  great  slaughter.  The  pass  was  forced  on  Easter 
Eve,  and  on  the  third  day  in  Easter  week,  Tuesday,  [the 
day  of  Mars],  the  victorious  army  entered  Limerick,  being 
the  same  day  on  which  the  place  was  taken  before. 

Eaymond  halted  there  a  short  time,  while  he  restored 
order  and  repaired  the  damages  occasioned  by  the  siege, 
and  soon  afterwards  had  a  conference  with  the  two  princes 
of  Thomond  and  Connaught,  on  the  same  day,  but  not  on 
the  same  spot.     Roderic  came  in  a  boat  to  an  island  in  the 


DEATH    OF    STEOKGBOW.  271 

great  lake,^  from  which  the  famous  river  Shannon  rises  and 
flows  in  two  branches  into  the  ocean.  Duvenald  took  his 
station  on  the  skirts  of  a  wood  not  far  from  the  same  spot, 
while  Raymond  chose  a  place  near  Killaloe,  about  sixteen 
miles  from  Limerick.  The  conferences  were  prolonged,  until 
at  last  both  princes  gave  hostages  for  their  good  behaviour, 
and  yielded  their  fealty  to  the  king  of  England,  renewing 
their  allegiance,  and  promising  for  the  future,  on  their  cor- 
poral oaths,  to  preserve  it  inviolate. 

After  this  was  settled,  and  Eaymond  had  returned  to 
Limerick  with  the  hostages,  Dermitius  Macarthy  sent  en- 
voys to  him,  imploring  aid  against  his  eldest  son,  Cormac 
O'Lechan,^  who  had  almost  driven  him  out  of  his  dominions, 
and  offering,  in  return  for  his  being  restored,  to  become  the 
liegeman  of  the  king  of  England,  acknowledging  him  as  his 
lord,  and  doing  fealty  to  him.  He  also  promised  Raymond 
large  reward,  and  pay  for  his  troops.  Eaymond,  attracted  by 
mingled  prospects  of  lucre  and  glory,  lost  no  time,  after  con- 
sulting his  friends,  in  marching  his  victorious  army  to  Cork. 
Li  this  expedition  he  took  much  booty,  and  not  only  had 
abundant  supplies  for  his  own  troops,  so  that  they  wanted 
nothing,  but  was  able  to  send  some  herds  of  cattle  and  other 
provisions  to  Limerick.  Thus,  by  Raymond's  help,  Dermitius 
Macarthy  recovered  the  whole  of  his  territories,  at  a  time 
when  his  son  Cormac  had  treacherously  seized  him  and 
kept  him  in  prison.  His  father,  proving  his  equal  in  guile, 
did  not  hesitate  to  compass  Cormac's  death  from  the  very 
dungeon  in  which  his  son  immured  him. 

CHAPTER  Xiy. 

THE    DEATH    OF    EAEL    STEONGBOW   IS   ANNOUNCED    TO 
EAYMOND. 

While  these  things  were  doing  in  Desmond,  there  came  a 
messenger  in  haste  from  Dublin,  who  brought  Raymond  a 
letter  from  his  wife,  Basilia,  of  the  contents  of  which  he  was 
not  apprized.  It  was  therefore  read  to  Raymond  by  a  cer- 
tain confidential  clerk  of  his  household,  and  the  tenor  was  as 
fellows  : 

"  To  Raymond,  her  well-beloved,  lord  and  husband,  hia 
^  Lough  Dearg.  ^  O'Lochlan. 


272  THE    CONQUEST    OF    IRELAND. 

Basilia  wisheth  healtli,  as  to  herself.  Be  it  known  to 
your  sincere  love,  that  the  great  jaw  tooth  which  used  to 
give  me  so  much  uneasiness,  has  fallen  out.  Wherefore,  if 
you  have  any  care  or  regard  for  me,  or  even  for  yourself, 
return  with  all  speed." 

On  hearing  the  letter  read,  Eaymond  shrewdly  conjec- 
tured that  by  the  falling  out  of  the  tooth  was  meant  the 
death  of  earl  Strongbow  ;  for  he  had  fallen  very  sick  before 
Eaymond  left  Dublin.  The  earl  died  about  the  calends  (the 
1st)  of  June  ;  but,  through  fear  of  the  Irish,  every  possible 
means  were  used  to  keep  his  death  secret  until  the  return 
of  Eaymond  and  the  troops  under  his  command.  Making 
all  haste,  therefore,  to  come  back  to  Limerick,  and  hiding  his 
grief  under  a  cheerful  countenance  from  all  except  a  few 
faithful  servants  of  his  own  household,  to  whom  he  disclosed 
the  loss  he  had  sustained,  he  took  counsel  with  the  most  dis- 
creet men  about  him  regarding  this  new  and  untoward 
event.  After  deliberating  on  the  state  of  affairs,  it  was 
agreed  amongst  them,  that  the  earl's  decease,  and  Eay- 
mond's  impending  departure  for  England,  rendered  it  ne- 
cessary that  they  should  for  a  time  relinquish  the  posses- 
sion of  a  city  which  lay  so  remote,  and  was  surrounded  on 
all  sides  by  hosts  of  enemies,  and  withdraw  the  whole  force 
in  good  order,  to  defend  the  towns  on  the  coast,  and  the 
castles  in  Leinster.  Eaymond  concurring  in  this  decision 
though  very  unwillingly,  and  not  being  able  to  find  any  one 
of  note  who  would  undertake  the  government  of  the  city 
after  his  own  departure,  voluntarily  gave  it  in  charge  to 
Duvenald  prince  of  Thomond,  as  baron  of  the  lord  the  king 
of  England,  on  his  taking  a  solemn  oath  to  preserve  the  place 
in  good  condition,  restore  it  to  the  king  when  required,  and 
keep  the  peace,  for  which  he  gave  fresh  hostages,  and  re- 
newed in  various  forms  the  solemn  oaths  he  had  before 
sworn. 

Scarcely,  however,  had  the  garrison  been  withdrawn  and 
passed  the  further  end  of  the  bridge,  when  it  was  broken 
down  behind  them,  and  they  beheld  with  grief  that  noble  city, 
so  well  fortified,  containing  such  fair  buildings,  and  stored  with 
all  manner  of  provisions  collected  from  all  quarters,  given 
to  the  flames,  fire  being  set  to  it  in  four  places.  It  was  the 
work  of  the^traitorous  Duvenald,  who  thus  openly  showed  bjf 


FTTZ-ALDELM    GOVERNOB    OF    IRELAND.  273 

:i:8  new  and  disgraceful  perfidy,  what  little  reliance  could 
be  placed  on  Irish  faith.  When  the  king  of  England  waa 
informed  afterwards  of  the  results  of  this  enterprise,  he  is 
reported  to  have  said :  "  The  attack  of  Limerick  was  a  bold 
adventure,  its  relief  a  greater ;  but  its  evacuation  was  an 
act  of  pure  wisdom."  As  soon  as  the  garrison  returned  to 
Dublin,  the  earl's  corpse,  which,  by  his  own  command,  had 
been  kept  uuburied  until  Eaymond's  arrival,  was  entombed 
in  the  church  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  at  Dublin,  by  the  ap- 
pointment of  Laurence,  the  archbishop  of  that  see,  who 
performed  the  obsequies  with  great  ceremony.* 

CHAPTER  XV. 

HOW  riTZ-ALDELM   WAS    SEKT    OYER   AS    GOYERlfOR    OF 
IRELAND. 

Upon  the  occurrence  of  these  events,  the  change  of  cir- 
cumstances requiring  new  plans,  the  royal  commissioners 
hastened  back  to  England  with  the  first  favourable  wind, 
leaving  Raymond  to  act  as  lieutenant-governor  of  Ireland 
until  the  royal  pleasure  was  known.  On  their  arrival  they 
informed  the  king  of  the  change  of  afiairs  in  consequence 
of  the  earl's  death.  "Whereupon  the  king  sent  over  to  Ire- 
land William  Fitz-Aldelm,  attended  by  ten  men-at-arms  of 
Eitz-Aldelm's  own  household,  to  fill  the  ofiice  of  lieutenant- 
governor.  There  were  joined  in  commission  with  him  John 
de  Courcy,  who  had  also  ten  men-at-arms,  and  Robert  Eitz- 
Stephen  and  Milo  de  Cogan,  who  had  distinguished  themselves 
in  the  worse  than  civil  two  years'  wars,  under  the  banner  of 

*  The  cathedral  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  or  Christ  Church,  in  Dublin, 
was  built  by  Sigtryg,  king  of  the  Ostmen  there,  and  Donald  (Duncan) 
their  bishop,  about  the  year  1038.  For  we  may  add  to  our  former  no- 
tices of  the  Ostmen  or  Scandinavian  colonists,  who  founded  also  the 
cathedral  at  Waterford,  that  they  had  their  own  bishops,  who  were  con- 
secrated in  England,  by  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  independent  of 
the  see  of  Armagh,  in  which  the  primacy  of  the  ancient  Irish  church 
was  vested.  Richard  Strongbow  had  assisted  archbishop  Laurence  in 
restoring  and  finishing  the  cathedral  of  Christ  Church,  in  which  he  was 
buried.  His  tomb,  which  had  been  defaced  by  the  fall  of  the  roof,  was 
repaired  by  Sir  Henry  Sydney,  when  he  was  lord  deputy,  and  is  stilJ 
preserved.    He  died  in  1176. 

•  I 


274j  the  cobtqtjest  op  ieeland. 

the  king,  both  in  England  and  France,  and  who  now  took  with 
them  twenty  men-at-arms.  Baymond,  having  heard  of  their 
landing,  set  forth  from  Dublin  with  a  well-appointed  body  of 
troops,  and  meeting  them  on  the  confines  of  Wexford,  after 
offering  his  congratulations,  and  embracing  them  in  a 
friendly  manner,  proceeded  forthwith  to  surrender  and  place 
in  the  charge  of  William  Fitz-Aldelm,  as  the  king's  lieute- 
nant, all  the  cities,  towns,  and  castles  of  Ireland,  and  the 
several  hostages  whicb  were  in  his  custody. 

Fitz-Aldelm  seeing  Raymond  surrounded  by  so  gallant  a 
band,  and  beholding  Meyler  and  his  other  nephews  and 
kinsmen  to  the  number  of  thirty  mounted  on  noble  steeds, 
in  bright  armour,  and  ali  having  the  same  device  on  their 
shields,  engaged  in  martial  exercises  on  the  plains,  he  turned 
to  his  friends,  and  said  in  a  low  voice  :  "  I  will  speedily  put 
an  end  to  all  this  bravery ;  those  shields  shall  soon  be  scat- 
tered." From  that  hour  Fitz-Aldelm  and  all  the  other  go- 
vernors of  Ireland,  as  it  were  by  a  common  understanding, 
were  so  moved  with  envy  towards  Eaymond,  Meyler,  the 
Fitzmaurices,  and  the  Fitz-Stephens,  that  they  took  every 
opportunity  of  injuring  them.  For  this  seems  to  have  been 
the  fate  of  the  whole  of  this  race.  In  all  services  of  war 
they  were  highly  valued ;  always  in  the  van,  they  were  emi- 
nent for  their  valour  and  daring  in  every  noble  enterprise : 
but,  as  soon  as  the  occasion  for  their  services  had  ended,  they 
were  neglected  and  treated  with  the  utmost  contempt.  But 
malice  itself  could  not  succeed  in  extirpating  this  generous 
Ta.ce,  so  that  even  to  this  day  the  family,  putting  forth  new 
branches,  possesses  no  small  share  of  wealth  and  power  in 
this  island.  Who  first  penetrated  into  the  heart  of  the 
enemy's  country  ?  The  Gleraldines.  "Who  have  kept  it  in 
submission  ?  The  Greraldines.  Who  strike  most  terrer  into 
the  enemy  ?  The  Greraldines.  Against  whom  are  the  shafts 
of  malice  chiefly  directed  ?  The  Greraldines.  Oh,  that  they 
had  found  a  prince  who  could  have  justly  appreciated  their 
distinguished  worth !  How  tranquil,  how  peaceful  would 
have  been  the  state  of  Ireland  under  their  administration  ! 
But  they  were  always  held  in  groundless  suspicion,  while 
confidence  has  been  placed  in  others  in  blind  security,  who 
bad  none  o'  their  virtues.     But  persevere,  ye  gallant  kins- 


FITZ-ALDELM    GOYEUIs^OIl    OF    lEELAI^^D.  275 

nien,  in  the  course  of  honour  ye  have  hitherto  pursued,  not 
holding  your  lives  dear,  if  spent  in  the  path  of  glory ;  and 

"  Felices  facti,  si  qmd  mea  carmina  possunt." 

"  Blest  if  my  feeble  lines  their  worth  proclaim, 
And  weave  their  guerdon  of  immortal  fame." 

!For  worth  is  imperishable,  and  will  receive  its  reward 
either  in  present  or  future  times ;  and  although,  either 
through  the  remissness  of  princes,  or  the  envy  of  others, 
the  great  services  of  the  Geraldines  have  been  hitherto  un- 
requited, at  least  they  shall  have  all  the  credit  that  my  pen 
can  give  them.  Let,  therefore,  this  noble  progeny  take 
heart,  and  still  toil  onward  from  day  to  day,  animated  by 
increasing  love  and  desire  of  renown ;  for  their  memory 
shall  never  be  lost  and  perish,  but,  more  precious  than  land 
and  wealth,  shall  flourish  for  ever  in  the  annals  of  glory. 

About  this  time,  or  shortly  before,  a  human  monster  was 
seen  in  Wicklow,  having  the  body  of  a  man  and  the  limbs 
of  an  ox.  It  was  begotten  by  a  man  on  a  cow,  an  enormity 
too  common  in  that  nation.  I  have  described  the  monster 
in  my  Topography.^ 

Meanwhile,  Fitz-Aldelm  employed  himself  in  inspecting 
the  towns  and  garrisons  on  the  coast,  but  kept  far  enough 
from  the  mountainous  districts  of  the  interior.  However, 
he  did  not  forget  to  collect  all  the  gold  he  could  lay  hands 
on,  and  in  which  the  country  abounds.  About  the  calends 
of  September  [1st  September]  Maurice  Fitzgerald  died  at 
Wexford,  to  the  great  grief  of  his  friends ;  a  man  of  great  mo- 
deration, prudence,  and  courage,  than  whom  no  better  for  con- 
stancy, truth,  and  resolute  valour  was  left  io  Ireland.  After 
this,  Fitz-Aldelm  had  a  meeting  with  Maurice's  sons  at  the 
castle  of  Grinkingelone  (G-inkel),  and  so  dealt  with  them  that 
he  never  left  them  until,  by  some  means  or  other,  he  craftily 
got  the  castle  out  of  their  hands.  Soon  afterwards,  indeed, 
he  gave  them  Ferns  as  a  sort  of  exchange ;  where  they  forth- 
with built  a  strong  fortress,  and  held  it  stoutly,  though  it 
was  in  the  midst  of  the  enemy's  country.  Walter  the 
Abnaine,  so  called,  although  he  was  not  such  either  hy 

^  Distinct,  ii.  c.  21 

T  2 


276  THE    CONQUEST   OF    lEELAND. 

birth  or  stature,  a  nephew  of  William  Fitz-Aldelm's,  was 
appointed  by  him  constable  of  "Wexford,  and  showed  by  his 
conduct  that  he  was  of  the  same  stock.  It  is  but  too  true 
that 

"  Asperius  nihil  est  humili  cum  surgit  in  altum  ; 
Cuncta  premit,  dum  cuncta  timet,  desaevit  in  omnes, 
TJt  se  posse  putent ;  nee  bellua  tetrior  ulla  est 
Quam  servi  rabies  in  libera  colla  furentis." ' 

**  No  greater  despot  than  the  base-bom  raised 
Above  his  rank  ;  fear  makes  him  a  tyrant, 
Measuring  his  power  by  the  terror  it  excites  : 
Nothing  so  monstrous  as  a  slave's  oppression, 
When  set  to  govern  freemen." 

This  Walter  was  corrupted  by  the  bribes  of  Murchard, 
prince  of  Kinsale,  to  compass  by  crafty  means  the  ruin  of 
the  family  of  the  Fitz-Stephens  ;  and  William  Pitz-Aldelm 
deprived  Raymond  of  the  lands  he  held  in  the  valley  of 
Dublin  and  about  Wexford.  He  also,  being  well  bribed, 
evaded  carrying  into  effect  the  king's  command  for  the 
restoration  to  the  Fitz-Stephens  of  a  cantred  of  land  in 
Offaly,  and  at  length  left  nothing  to  this  noble  family  but 
remote  and  barren  territories,  constantly  exposed  to  danger 
from  the  inroads  of  the  enemy,  on  whose  country  they 
bordered. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

DESCEIPTION"   OF  FITZ-ALDELM. 

This  Fitz-Aldelm^  was  large  and  corpulent  both  in  stature 
and  shape,  but  of  a  reasonable  height.  He  was  a  pleasant 
and  courtly  man,  but  whatever  honours  he  paid  to  any  one 
were  always  mingled  with  guile.     There  was  no  end  of  hia 

1  Claudian.  in  Eutrop.  i.  181 — 4. 

2  WiUiam  Fitz-Aldehn  was  son  of  Aldelm,  or  Adelm,  and  younger 
brother  of  Hubert  de  Burgh,  earl  of  Kent,  and  justiciary  in  the  time  of 
Henry  III.,  one  of  the  most  powerful  subjects  in  England.  The  Clan- 
ricards  are  descended  from  William  Fitz-Aldelm,  the  founder  of  the  Irish 
branch  of  this  family. 


THE    IlfTASION    OF    ULSTEE.  277 

craftiness ;  there  was  poison  in  the  honey,  and  a  snake  in 
the  grass.  To  outward  appearance  he  was  liberal  and  cour- 
teous, but  within  there  was  more  aloes  than  honey.  He 
always 

"  Pelliculam  veterem  retinens,  vir  fronte  politiis, 
Astutam  vapido  portans  sub  pectore  vulpem."  ^ 


Always, 


"  Beneath  the  outward  guise  of  gentle  bearing, 
Concealed  the  fox's  hateful  guile  within." 

"  Impia  sub  diilci  melle  venena  ferens." 
"  Foul  poison  in  the  honeyed  potion  lurks." 


His  words  were  smoother  than  oil,  and  yet  were  they  very 
swords.  Those  he  honoured  one  day,  the  next  he  plundered 
or  calumniated.  A  braggart  against  the  defenceless,  a  flat- 
terer of  the  rebellious,  he  succumbed  to  the  powerful,  and 
lorded  over  the  humble ;  gentle  to  his  enemies  and  severe 
to  those  who  submitted,  he  neither  struck  terror  into  the 
one,  nor  kept  faith  with  the  other.  He  was  a  man  full  of 
guile,  bland  and  deceitful,  and  much  given  to  wine  and 
women.  Covetous  of  mouey  and  ambitious  of  court  favour, 
he  tried  to  advance  himself  both  ways. 


The  Invasion  of  Ulster. 

John  de  Courcy,  perceiving  that  Fitz-Aldelm  was  covetous 
crafty,  and  timid  in  all  his  dealings,  and  considering  that 
he  was  neither  feared  by  the  enemy  nor  trusted  by  his 
subjects,  drew  around  him  some  of  the  garrison  of  Dublin, 
who  were  much  dispirited  for  want  of  their  regular  pay 
and  allowances,  and  the  supplies  they  were  used  to  obtain 
in  cattle  and  provisions  by  inroads  on  the  enemy.  The 
band  selected  by  Courcy  was  small  in  numbers,  but 
full  of  courage  and  spirit ;  and  the  brave  knight,  with 
only  twenty-two  men-at-arms  and  about  three  hundred 
others,   boldly   ventured  on   an  expedition  into  Ulster,  a 

»  Perseus,  Sat.  v.  116—18. 


278  THE    CONQTIEST   OF   lEELAITD. 

part  of  the  island  where  the  English  had  not  yet  appeared 
in  arms. 

Then  the  prophecy  attributed  to  the  Calidonian  Merlin 
(for  I  do  not  vouch  its  authenticity)  seemed  to  receive  its 
fulfilment : — "  a  white  knight,  sitting  on  a  white  horse,  and 
having  birds  on  his  shield,  shall  be  the  first  to  enter  the 
province  of  Ulster  with  force  of  arms."  Tor  John  de 
Courcy  was  of  a  fair  complexion,  and  chanced  at  this  time  to 
ride  a  white  horse,  and  he  bore  on  his  shield  the  blazon  of 
three  birds. ^  After  three  days'  march  through  the  country 
of  Uziele  (Orgial),  on  the  morniDg  of  the  fourth  day,  being 
about  the  calends  [the  1st]  of  February,  he  entered  the  city 
of  Down  without  opposition,  unexpected  either  as  a  guest 
or  an  enemy  ;  and  Dunlevus,^  the  king  of  that  country,  was 
so  taken  by  surprise  that  he  made  a  hasty  flight.  There 
Courcy 's  troops,  who  had  been  before  in  great  need  and  half 
starved,  were  refreshed  with  the  plunder  and  booty  they 
took. 

It  happened  at  this  very  time  that  Yivianus,  a  legate  of 
the  see  of  Eome,  was  staying  in  the  city,  having  crossed 
the  sea  from  Scotland.  This  prelate  took  much  pains  to 
effect  a  treaty  between  the  king  and  John  de  Courcy,  and 
so  induce  the  English  to  leave  those  parts  and  return  to 
their  own  territories,  in  consideration  of  a  tribute  to  be 
yearly  paid  them ;  but  although  he  exerted  all  his  powers 
of  persuasion,  his  mediation  was  of  no  effect.  Dunlevus, 
finding  that  words  were  of  no  avail,  assembled  his  forces 
from  all  quarters  and  within  eight  days,  and  boldly  marched 
against  his  enemies  within  the  city  at  the  head  of  ten  thou- 
sand warriors.  Eor  in  this  island,  as  in  other  countries, 
the  inhabitants  of  the  northern  parts  are  more  warlike  and 
truculent  than  the  rest.     Thus  the  poet  says : — 

"  Omnis  in  arctois  sanguis  quicunque  pruinis 
Nascitur,  indomitus  bellis,  et  mortis  amator." 

'  The  arms  of  the  Courcys  were :  Argent,  three  griphs  or  geires 
gules,  crowned  or.  The  famUy  took  their  name  from  a  castle  on  the 
little  river  Dive  in  Normandy ;  and  Eichard  de  Courcy,  who  came  in 
with  William  the  Conqueror,  received  grants  of  lands  in  England. 
This  John  de  Courey,  the  first  invader  of  the  North  of  Irelanc^  was 
made  earl  of  Ulster  by  Henry  II.,  the  first  Irish  earldom  created. 

^  Roderic  mac  Dulevy,  king  of  Ulster. 


THE    INVASION    OF    ULSTER.  279 

**  The  blood  that's  nurtured  in  the  northern  frosts, 
Despises  death,  and  yields  not  in  the  fight." 

John  de  Courcy  seeing  the  enemy's  force  approaching 
the  city  with  great  impetuosity,  thought  it  far  best  to  sally 
forth  and  meet  them,  as  his  own  troops,  though  few  in  num- 
ber, were  full  of  courage,  and  thus  try  the  fortune  of 
battle,  rather  than  be  shut  up  in  a  weak  fort  which  he  had 
constructed  of  slight  materials  in  one  corner  of  the  city, 
where  he  might  be  exposed  to  a  long  siege  and  be  reduced 
by  famine.  Battle  was  therefore  joined  with  great  fury, 
arrows  and  darts  beiug  showered  thickly  from  a  distance 
at  the  first  onset ;  then  spears  met  spears,  and  swords  and 
battle-axes  crossed,  and  many  fell  on  both  sides.  In  this 
terrible  conflict, 

"  Tam  clypeo  clypeus,  umbone  repellitur  umbo, 
Ense  minax  ensis,  pede  pes,  et  cuspide  cuspis," 

He  who  had  seen  how  John  de  Courcy  wielded  his  sword, 
with  one  stroke  lopping  ofi*  heads,  and  with  another  arms, 
must  needs  have  commended  him  for  a  most  valiant 
soldier. 

Many  others  distinguished  themselves  by  their  bravery 
in  this  battle,  among  whom  was  Eoger  le  Poer,^  a  beard- 
less youth,  fair  and  tall,  who  was  second  in  the  glo- 
rious list  of  warriors  here,  and  afterwards  gained  great 
honour  in  the  country  about  Leighlin,  and  also  in  Ossory. 
The  battle  was  severely  fought,  and  the  issue  for  a  long 
time  doubtful,  the  odds  in  numbers  being  so  great ;  but 
at  length  John  de  Courcy's  obstinate  valour  secured  the  vic- 
tory, and  great  multitudes  of  the  Irish  were  slain  as  they 
were  making  their  escape  by  the  sea-shore.  Then  was  ful- 
filled, as  they  say,  the  prophecy  of  Columba,  the  Irishman, 
who  in  times  long  past  foretold  this  battle  :  "  So  much 
Irish  blood,"  he  said,  "  shall  then  be  shed,  that  their  enemies, 
in  pursuing  them,  will  wade  up  to  their  knees  in  blood." 
Por  the  fugitives  sank  with  their  own  weight  in  the  quick- 

*  Giraldus  does  not  inform  us  how  this  young  man  -was  related  to 
Kobert  le  Poer,  the  founder  of  this  distinguished  Irish  family,  who  u 
noticed  elsewhere  in  this  History. 


280  THE  CONQUEST  OP  lEELAND. 

Bands  on  the  shore,  so  that  their  pursuers  were  easily 
plunged  up  to  their  knees  in  the  blood  which  floated  on  the 
surface.  It  is  also  reported  that  a  predictior  was  committed 
to  writing  by  the  same  prophet,  purporting  that  a  needy  and 
broken  man,  a  stranger  from  far  countries,  should,  with  a 
small  company,  come  to  Down,  and  take  possession  of  the 
city  without  the  leave  of  the  governor.  He  also  foretold 
several  battles  and  other  events,  all  which  were  clearly  ful- 
filled in  the  acts  of  John  de  Courcy ;  who  is  said  to  have 
had  this  book  of  prophecies,  written  in  the  Irish  tongue,  in 
his  possession,  and  to  have  valued  it  much,  considering  it 
as  the  mirror  of  his  own  deeds.  It  is  also  written  in  the 
same  book,  that  a  young  man,  with  a  band  of  armed  rpen, 
should  assault  and  break  down  the  walls  of  Waterford,  and 
take  the  city  with  great  slaughter  of  the  inhabitants ;  and 
that  he  should  then  pass  through  Wexford,  and  at  length 
enter  Dublin,  without  any  opposition.  All  this  was  evi- 
dently fulfilled  in  earl  Eichard.  The  saint  also  predicted 
that  Limerick  would  be  twice  evacuated  by  the  English,  but 
the  third  time  they  would  retain  possession  of  it.  Now, 
truly  it  has  been  twice  given  up,  once,  as  we  have  before  re- 
lated, and  thesecond  time  by  Philip  de  Braose,  who,  having 
the  city  of  Limerick  granted  to  him,  came  as  far  as  the  river 
which  washes  its  walls,  for  the  purpose  of  taking  possession, 
but  no  efforts  or  taunts  could  prevail  with  him  not  to  relinquish 
his  enterprise;  as  we  shall  more  fully  relate  in  the  proper  place. 
And  as  we  find  in  the  prophecy,  that,  when  the  attempt  should 
be  made  for  the  third  time,  possession  of  the  city  should  be 
retained,  this  happened  long  afterwards,  when  Hamon  de  Va- 
laignes  was  justiciary  ;  for  then  the  place  was  treacherously 
laid  in  ruins,  but  was  afterwards  recovered  and  rebuilt  by 
Meyler. 

As  to  John  de  Courcy,  he  gained  the  victory  in  two 
great  battles  at  Down,  one  of  which  was  fought  after  the 
feast  of  the  Purification,  (2nd  February,)  and  the  other 
about  the  [eighth  of  the]  calends  of  July,  the  feast  ot 
the  Nativity  of  St.  John,  [24th  June],  when,  with  a  very 
small  force,  he  defeated  fifteen  thousand  men,  putting 
great  numbers  of  them  to  the  sword.  He  had  a  third  en- 
gagement at  Perly,  where  he  was  overtaken  in  a  narrow  pass», 


DESCEIPTION   or   JOHN  DE    C0T7ECT.  281 

while,  with  a  small  party,  he  was  carrying  off  a  herd  of 
cattle,  but  being  beset  by  the  enemy,  his  party  were  com- 
pelled to  retire,  after  several  desperate  charges,  and  so  many 
of  them  perished,  or  dispersed  themselves  in  the  woods,  that 
only  eleven  of  his  men-at-arms  were  left  to  stand  by  him. 
However,  with  undaunted  courage,  he  and  his  small  band 
made  good  their  retreat  for  thirty  miles,  having  continually 
to  defend  themselves  against  the  enemy  who  pursued  them. 
They  lost  their  horses,  and  after  travelling  on  foot  two  days 
and  two  nights,  encumbered  with  their  armour,  and  without 
tasting  food,  at  length,  by  wonderful  eftbrts,  reached  his 
castle  in  safety.  His  fourth  battle  was  fought  at  Uriel, 
where  he  lost  many  of  his  people,  and  the  rest  were  put  to 
flight.  The  fifth  battle  was  fought  at  the  bridge  of  Ivor, 
after  his  return  from  England ;  and  in  this  he  came  off  vic- 
torious. Thus  he  gained  the  victory  in  three  engagements, 
and  was  unsuccessful  in  two  skirmishes,  in  which,  however, 
the  enemy's  losses  were  far  greater  than  his  own. 

CHAPTEE  XVn. 

THE   DESCRIPTION    OF   JOHN    DE    COITRCT. 

In  person  John  de  Courcy  was  of  a  fair  complexion,  and 
tall,  with  bony  and  muscular  limbs,  of  large  size,  and  very 
strong  made,  being  very  powerful,  of  singular  daring,  and  a 
bold  and  brave  soldier  from  his  very  youth.  Such  was  his 
ardour  to  mingle  in  the  fight,  that  even  when  he  had  the 
command,  he  was  apt  to  forget  his  duties  as  such,  and  exhi- 
biting the  virtues  of  a  private  soldier,  instead  of  a  general, 
and  impetuously  charge  the  enemy  among  the  foremost 
ranks ;  so  that  if  his  troops  wavered  he  might  have  lost  the 
victory  by  being  too  eager  to  win  it.  But  although  he  was 
thus  impetuous  in  war,  and  was  more  a  soldier  than  a  gene- 
ral, in  times  of  peace  he  was  sober  and  modest,  and,  paying 
due  reverence  to  the  church  of  Christ,  was  exemplary  in  his 
devotions  and  in  attending  holy  worship  ;  nor  did  he  forget 
in  his  successes  to  offer  thanksgivings,  and  ascribe  all  to  the 
Divine  mercy,  giving  God  all  the  glory  as  often  as  he  had 
achieved  anything  glorious.     But,  as  TuUy  says,  '*  Nature 


2S2  THE    COS^QUEST    Or    IEELAI7D. 

never  made  anything  absolutely  perfect  in  all  points,"  so 
we  find  in  him  an  excessive  parsimony  and  inconstancy, 
which  cast  a  shade  over  his  other  virtues. 

He  married  the  daughter  of  Grodred  king  of  Man ;  and 
after  the  many  conflicts  of  a  long  war,  and  severe  struggles 
on  every  side,  being  raised  by  his  victories  to  the  summit  of 
power,  he  erected  castles  throughout  Ulster  in  suitable 
places,  and  settled  the  whole  country  in  peace  and  good 
order,  the  fruits  of  his  many  toils,  privations,  and  perils. 
One  thing,  however,  is  very  remarkable,  and  I  cannot  forbear 
mentioning  it,  that  four  of  the  main  pillars  of  the  English 
power  in  the  conquest  of  Ireland,  namely,  Titz-Stephen, 
Hervey,  E-aymond,  and  John  de  Courcy,  by  some  mysterious, 
though  doubtless  just,  dispensation  of  Providence,  had  no 
lawful  issue  by  their  wives.  I  might  add  to  these  a  fifth, 
Meyler,  who,  although  he  be  married,  has  yet  no  child  by 
his  wife.  Having  said  thus  much  briefly,  and  by  way  of 
episode,  concerning  John  de  Courcy,  I  leave  his  great  deeds 
to  be  more  fully  related  by  future  historians,  and  now  re- 
turn to  Dublin. 

The  Synod  of  Dublin  under  the  presidence  of  Vivianus, 

"While  Vivianus  performed  the  functions  of  papal  legate 
in  Ireland,  a  synod  of  the  bishops  was  convoked  and  held 
in  Dublin,  at  which  he  made  a  public  declaration  of  the 
right  of  the  king  of  England  to  Ireland,  and  the  confirma- 
tion of  the  pope  ;  and  strictly  commanded  and  enjoined 
both  the  clergy  and  people,  under  pain  of  excommunication, 
on  no  rash  pretence  to  presume  to  forfeit  their  allegiance. 
And  moreover,  forasmuch  as  it  was  the  custom  in  Ireland 
for  stores  of  provisions  to  be  carried  to  the  churches  in 
times  of  trouble  for  safe  keeping,  the  legate  allowed  the 
English  troops  engaged  in  any  expedition  to  take  what  they 
found  in  those  churches,  when  they  could  not  procure  food 
elsewhere,  paying  what  was  justly  due  for  the  care  thereof 
to  those  who  had  the  charge  of  the  churches. 

After  this,  Milo  de  Cogan,  who  under  Eitz-Aldelm  was 
constable  of  the  garrison  of  Dublin,  and  also  for  the  second 
time  governor  of  the  city,  crossed  the  river  Shannon  and 
invaded    Connaught,   into  which  the  English  had  not  yet 


HUGH    DE    LACY   APPOINTED    GOVEEN'OR.  2S3 

penetrated,  at  the  head  of  forty  men-at-arms,  (twenty  of  whom 
were  under  the  command  of  Titz-  Stephen's  son,  E-alph,  a  noble 
youth),  with  two  hundred  horse  soldiers  and  three  hundred 
bowmen.  Thereupon  the  men  of  Connaught  set  fire  to 
their  own  towns  and  villages,  and  burnt  all  the  corn  which 
they  could  not  conceal  in  their  underground  granaries,  not 
even  sparing  the  churches  from  the  flames,  and  taking  down 
the  crucifixes  and  images  of  the  saints,  they  strewed  them  on 
the  plains,  in  order  to  bring  scandal  on  our  people  and  draw 
down  on  them  the  vengeance  of  Almighty  Grod.  The  En- 
glish army,  however,  marched  forward  till  they  came  to 
Thomond;  but  after  halting  there  for  eight  days  in  the 
heart  of  the  enemy's  territory,  finding  that  no  provisions 
could  be  obtained  in  the  country,  they  retired  towards  the 
river  Shannon.  On  this  march  they  fell  in  with  the  forces  of 
Boderic  prince  of  Connaught,  posted  in  three  bodies  in  a 
wood  near  the  river.  A  severe  engagement  ensued,  unin- 
tentionally on  both  sides ;  bat  Milo  de  Cogan  forced  his 
way  through,  and  brought  his  troops  safe  to  Dublin,  having 
lost  only  three  men,  though  the  loss  of  the  enemy  was  much 
greater, 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

HOW   riTZ-ALDELM   WAS    EECALLED,    AND  HTJGH  DE    LACT 
APPOINTED    GOVERNOR. 

Eitz-Aldelm  was  recalled  to  England,  as  well  as  Milo  de 
Cogan  and  Eobert  Eitz-Stephen,  having  done  nothing 
worthy  of  mention  during  his  government,  except  pro- 
curing the  miraculous  staff  called  the  staff  of  Jesus,  to 
be  transferred  from  Armagh  to  Dublin.  King  Henry 
then  appointed  Hugh  de  Lacy  governor-general  of  Ire- 
land, joining  in  commission  with  him  Eobert  Poer  ^  with 
the  constableship  both  of  Waterford  and  Wexford,  The 
king  also  granted  to  Robert  Eitz-Stephen  and  Milo  de 
Cogan  all  the  southern  part  of  Munster,  namely,  the  kingdom 

1  The  honours  and  estates  of  the  Le  Poer  family  in  Ireland,  of  which 
this  Robert  was  the  founder,  passed  by  marriage  to  the  Beresfords,  ol 
whom  the  marquis  of  Waterford  is  now  tne  nead  and  representative. 


2Si  THE  CONQUEST  OF  lEELAND. 

of  Cork  from  the  west  of  Liamore,  and  the  adjoining 
cantred,  except  the  city  of  Cork,  the  said  territories  to  be 
equally  divided  between  them,  and  held  of  him  by  knight- 
service.  The  king  also  gave  to  Philip  de  Braose  the 
northern  division  of  Munster,  namely,  the  whole  kingdom 
of  Limerick,  except  the  city  itself  and  the  cantred  belong- 
ing to  it.  These  three  having  thus  received  their  grants 
and  done  fealty  at  the  same  time,  formed  a  strict  alliance, 
and  crossed  over  to  Ireland  in  company,  in  the  month  of 
November,  each  with  his  own  armed  retainers ;  and  tra- 
velling along  the  coast-road  southward,  passed  first  through 
Waterford  and  then  Lismore,  arriving  safely  at  Cork,  where 
they  were  received  with  due  honour  by  the  citizens  and  a 
knight  named  E-ichard  de  Londres,^  who  had  acted  as  go- 
vernor thereof,  under  Fitz-Aldelm. 

Having  speedily  established  peace  with  Dermitius  prince 
of  Desmond,  and  with  the  other  powerful  men  of  those  parts, 
Fitz- Stephen  and  Milo  divided  between  them  seven  cantreds 
of  land  lying  near  the  city,  of  which  they  had  already  obtained 
possession.  The  three  eastern  cantreds  in  this  partition  fell 
to  the  lot  of  Fitz- Stephen,  and  the  four  western  to  Milo, 
which  was  made  equal  by  the  smaller  lots  comprising  the 
best  land,  whereas  much  of  the  other  was  barren.  The  city 
was  left  in  their  joint  charge,  and  the  tribute  reserved  for 
the  remaining  twenty-four  cantreds  was  to  be  equally  divided 
between  the  two  lords,  as  it  was  received.  It  has  been  al- 
ready mentioned  in  the  Topography,  that  a  cantred,  both  in 
English  and  Irish,  signifies  a  tract  of  lands  containing  one 
hundred  vills. 

After  this,  his  two  confederates  conducted  Philip  de 
Braose  to  Limerick ;  Pitz- Stephen  taking  with  him  thirty 
men-at-arms  and  forty  horse-soldiers ;  Milo  de  Cogan, 
twenty  men  at-arms  and  fifty  horse-soldiers ;  and  Philip  de 
Braose,  twenty  men-at-arms  and  sixty  horse- soldiers ;  be- 
sides the  bowmen  attached  to  each  body  of  troops.     On 

*  William  de  Loiidres  held  the  castle  and  lands  of  Ogmore,  in  Gla- 
morganshire, under  Robert  Fitz-Hamon.  Among  his  descendants  we 
find  this  Richard,  JFitz-Aldelm's  deputy  at  Waterford,  and  Henry  de 
Londres,  who  succeeded  John  Comyn  in  the  archbishopric  of  Dublin 
in  1212. 


HraH  DE  lacy's  goyeenment.  285 

reaching  the  bank  of  the  Shannon,  over  against  Limerick, 
distant  about  forty  miles  from  Cork,  Fitz-Stephen  anid 
Milo  de  Cogan  offered  immediately  to  ford  the  river  and 
storm  the  town,  although  it  was  then  in  flames  before  their 
eyes,  having  been  set  on  fire  by  the  citizens  themselves  ;  or 
otherwise  they  proposed,  if  Philip  de  Braose  preferred  it, 
to  make  a  fortified  camp  for  him  on  the  opposite  side  of  the 
river.  Philip,  however,  listening  to  the  pusillanimous  coun- 
sels of  his  friends,  though  he  was  not  wanting  in  courage 
himself,  determined  to  return  home  safe,  rather  than  to  run 
the  risk  of  the  perils  to  which  he  would  be  exposed  in  a 
country  so  hostile  and  so  remote  from  all  succour.  It  is  no 
wonder  that  this  expedition  turned  out  so  unfortunately,  con- 
sidering the  number  of  cut- throats,  and  murderers,  and 
lewd  fellows,  whom  Philip  de  Braose  had,  by  his  own  special 
choice,  got  together,  from  South  "Wales  and  its  marches, 
to  accompany  him  to  Ireland/ 

Soon  afterwards,  Mereduc,  Pitz-Stephen's  son,  a  youth 
of  great  gallantry  and  much  promise,  died  at  Cork,  in  the 
month  of  March,  to  the  great  grief  of  his  friends,  he  being 
truly  a  disciple  of  Mars.  About  this  time  also,  the  cow 
mentioned  in  my  Topography  ^  was  found  at  "Waterford,  to 
the  great  astonishment  of  the  Irish  people. 

Meanwhile,  the  famous  council  of  Lateran,^  under  pope 
Alexander  III.,  sat  at  Rome,  by  which  the  German  church 
was  restored  to  unity,  and  the  schism  occasioned  by  three 
antipopes,  which  had  lasted  for  twenty  years,  was,  by  the 

^  We  imagine  that  this  Philip  de  Braose  is  identical  with  the  person 
who  is  elsewhere  called  Philip  of  Worcester  by  Giraldus.  The  family 
of  Braose  obtained  large  grants  of  lands  in  Sussex,  part  of  which,  with 
the  ancient  barony  of  that  name,  are  now  vested  in  the  duke  of  Norfolk. 
G-iraldus  frequently  mentions  in  his  Itinerary  another  of  this  family, 
WilHam  de  Braose,  who  was  lord  of  Brecknock  at  this  time,  and  had 
great  power  in  that  part  of  Wales,  which  he  exercised  in  a  manner 
quite  consistent  with  the  description  of  his  retainers  here  given.  See 
the  Itin.,  Book  i.  c.  2. 

2  Distinct  ii.  c.  22. 

^  This  famous  council  was  opened  in  the  third  week  of  Lent,  29th 
March,  1179.  The  Irish  church  was  represented  in  it  by  Laurence, 
archbishop  of  Dublin,  Catholicus  of  Tuam,  and  five  or  six  other 
bishops ;  only  four  went  from  England.  See  Hoveden's  Hist.  vol.  L 
pp.  494,  &c.  {Aiiiiq.  Lib.),  where  the  decrees  of  tliis  council  are  given. 


2S0  THE    COI^QTJEST    OP    IRELAND. 

aid  of  .Divine  Providence,  extinguished.  Also,  within  the 
space  of  three  years,  about  the  same  period,  there  were 
three  eclipses  of  the  sun ;  but  they  were  not  general,  the 
sun  being  only  partly  eclipsed. 

After  Eobert  Fitz- Stephen  and  Milo  de  Cogan  had  jointly 
governed  the  kingdom  of  Desmond  in  peace  for  five  years, 
restraining  by  their  prudence  and  moderation  the  unruly 
spirits  of  their  young  men  on  both  sides,  Milo,  together 
with  Balph,  a  son  of  Robert  Fitz-Stephen,  a  young  man  of 
great  merit,  who  had  lately  married  Milo*s  daughter,  went 
towards  Lismore  to  have  a  parley  with  the  men  of  Water- 
ford  ;  and  as  they  were  sitting  in  the  fields  waiting  for  their 
coming,  one  Mac  Tyre,  with  whom  they  were  to  have  lodged 
that  night,  with  five  men-of-arms,  stealing  upon  them 
unawares,  treacherously  slew  both,  by  strokes  of  broad- 
axes  dealt  from  behind.  This  calamity  threw  the  whole 
country  into  insurrection,  and  Dermitius  Macarthy,  and 
almost  all  the  Irish  in  those  parts,  joined  vnth  Mac  Tyre  in 
throwing  off  their  allegiance  to  the  English,  and  rising  in 
arms  to  try  their  strength  and  fortune  against  Fitz-Stephen. 
Nor  could  he  ever  afterwards  recover  the  ascendancy,  until 
Raymond  succeeding  to  the  inheritance  of  his  uncle,  Robert 
Fitz-Stephen,  obtained  the  sole  constableship  of  the  city ; 
nor  even  then  was  the  country  restored  to  its  former  state 
of  tranquillity.  "We  find  that  the  people  of  the  North 
of  Ireland  were  always  warlike,  while  those  of  the  South 
were  subtle  and  crafty ;  the  one  coveted  glory,  the  other 
was  steeped  in  falsehood ;  the  one  trusted  to  their  arms,  the 
other  to  their  arts ;  the  one  was  full  of  courage,  the  other 
of  deceit.    As  the  poet  says  : 

"  Omnis  in  Arctois  sanguis  quicunque  pruinis 
Nascitur,  indomitus  bellis,  et  Martis  amator." 

As  quoted  above ;  and  again  immediately  after : 

"  Q.uicquid  ad  Eoos  tractus  coelique  teporem 
Jungitiir,  emollit  mores  dementia  coeli.'' 

"  In  eastern  climes,  the  torrid  heat  -we  find 
Exhaust  the  strength,  and  enervate  the  mind." 


BATMOND    EETUENS    TO    IRELAND.  287 

Raymond  returns  to  Ireland, 

Raymond  liaving  received  intelligence  that  Eobert  Ilfcz. 
Stephen  was  desperately  afflicted  by  this  reverse  of  fortune, 
and  beset  on  all  sides  by  hosts  of  enemies,  who  blockaded  him 
in  the  town  of  Cork,  he  set  sail  from  the  port  of  Wexford  wdth 
twenty  men-at-arms,  and  one  hundred  horse-soldiers  and 
bowmen,  and,  sailing  along  the  coast,  quickly  brought  relief 
to  his  countrymen,  and  struck  terror  into  the  enemy.  In 
various  encounters  with  the  Irish,  some  of  them  were  slain, 
others  driven  from  that  part  of  the  country,  but  the  greater 
part  were  reduced  to  submission,  and  peace  being  restored, 
this  violent  storm  soon  blew  over. 

Yery  shortly  afterwards,  Eichard  de  Cogan,  Milo's  brother, 
a  worthy  scion  of  the  same  stock,  was  sent  to  Ireland  by 
the  king  of  England  with  a  picked  body  of  troops,  to  supply 
his  brother's  place.  Also,  towards  the  close  of  winter,  at 
the  end  of  the  month  of  November,  Philip  de  Barri,^  Fitz- 
Stephen's  nephew,  a  man  of  prudence  and  courage,  arrived 
with  a  strong  force  both  to  succour  his  uncle  and  defend 
his  own  lands  in  Olethan,  which  had  been  granted  him  by 
Fitz-Stephen,  and  afterwards  unjustly  taken  from  him  by 
his  son  Ealph.  There  came  over  at  the  same  time  in  the 
same  ship  another  nephew  of  Fitz-Stephen's,  and  a  brother 
of  Philip  de  Barri,  who  rendered  his  uncle  and  brother  im- 
portant assistance  by  his  good  advice,  and  also  made  diligent 
inquiries  respecting  the  situation  and  natural  history  of  the 
island,  as  well  as  the  origin  of  the  nation.  This  person  was 
already  versed  in  literary  pursuits,  and  his  name  appears  as 
the  author  of  the  present  work.- 

1  Robert  de  Barri,  a  brother  of  this  Philip  de  Barri  and  of  our 
Giraldus,  came  over  to  Ireland  with  the  first  expedition  iinder  Fitz-Ste- 
phen. (See  B.  i.  c.  3.)  Hooker,  however,  represents  this  Philip  de 
Barri  as  the  founder  of  the  Irish  family  of  that  name.  Perliaps  Robert 
died  without  issue,  or  returned  to  Wales.  Philip  had  a  son  named 
Robert,  as  we  are  informed  in  c.  20  of  this  book.  He  had  also  a 
younger  son  named  Philip,  who  was  brovight  up  to  the  chiu-ch  by  his 
uncle  Giraldus,  and  succeeded  him  in  his  archdeaconry  and  prebend, 
resigned  in  his  favour. 

2  This  was  our  author,  Giraldus,  who  appears  to  have  spent  about  a 
year  in  this,  liis  first,  visit  to  Ireland.  He  very  seldom  famishes  any 
dates  J  but  his  History  is  written  in  a  regular  sequence,  and  by  a  cal« 


288  THE    CONQUEST    OF    IBELAND. 

About  this  time  Hervey  de  Montmaurice  retired  to  Can- 
terburj,  and  became  a  monk  in  the  abbey  of  the  Holy 
Trinity  there,  to  which  he  gave  in  frank- almoin  all  the 
churches  on  his  lands  lying  between  Waterford  and  Wex- 
ford. Would  to  Grod  that  with  the  monastic  garb  his  mind 
had  become  pious,  and  he  had  laid  aside  his  malicious 
temper  as  well  as  his  military  habits. 

CHAPTEE  XIX. 

HOW    HUGH    DE    LACY    BTJILT    CASTLES    IS    IBELAND. 

While  these  events  were  happening  in  Desmond,  Hugh  de 
Lacy,  like  a  wise  and  prudent  man,  was  building  strong 
castles^  throughout  Leinster  and  Meath.  Among  others, 
he  erected  a  castle  at  Leighlin,  on  the  banks  of  the  noble 
river  Barrow,  on  the  side  of  Ossory,  towards  O drone,  select- 
ing for  its  site  a  spot  naturally  of  great  strength.'^  Before 
this,  E-obert  Poer  had  the  custody  of  the  place,  but  he  gave 
it  up  by  the  king's  command.  This  Eobert  Poer  and  Eitz- 
Aldelm  were  pretty  men  to  be  made  lords-marchers,  and 
sent  into  a  country  where  men  of  mark  were  needed. 
"  Q.uales  ex  humili  magna  ad  fastigia  rerum 
Extollit,  quoties  voluit  fortuna  jocari." 

"'Tis  fortune's  freak,  when  men  of  low  estate 
She  raises  from  the  dust,  and  ranks  them  with  the  great.** 

The  two  were  soldiers  who  delighted  rather 
jacuisse  thoro,  tenuisse  puellam. 


Threiciam  digitis  increpuisse  lyram, 
Quam  clypeos  humeris,  et  acutae  cuspidis  hastam, 
Et  galeam  pressa  sustinuisse  coma."  ^ 

culation  made  from  other  occurrences,  it  would  appear  that  he  went 
over  with  his  brother  Philip  in  1182  or  1183.  In  1184  he  was  at  the 
court  of  Henry  I.  in  Normandy,  and  retiu'ned  to  Ireland  in  attendance 
on  prince  John  in  1185. 

^  Every  one  knows  that  this  castellation  was  the  usual  policy  of  the 
Normans  in  all  their  conquests.  Thus,  their  own  Normandy,  England, 
Wales,  and  Ireland  were  successively  bridled ;  not  to  speak  of  Apulia, 
Sicily,  and  their  other  acquisitions  in  the  South  of  Europe. 

*  The  castle  of  Leighlin,  or  the  Black  Castle,  stood  upon  the  bank  of 
the  river  Barrow,  at  Leighlin  Bridge,  about  a  mile  from  the  oatLedrsl 
town  of  the  same  name. 

3  Ovid.  Epist.  ii.  117—121. 


DESCRIPTION    OF    HUGH    DE    LACY.  289 

It  is  indeed  to  be  wondered  that  so  sagacious  a  prince 
should  have  sent  such  paltry  cowards  to  take  the  charge 
of  these  far-distant  marches,  merely  because  they  were 
hangers-on  about  his  court.  Hugh  de  Lacy,  a  very  difier- 
ent  sort  of  person,  made  it  his  first  care  to  restore  peace 
and  order,  reinstating  the  peasants  who,  after  they  had  sub- 
mitted to  the  conquerors,  were  violently  expelled  from  their 
districts,  in  the  deserted  lands,  which  from  barren  wastes 
now  became  cultivated  and  stocked  with  herds  of  cattle. 
Having  thus  restored  confidence  by  his  mild  administration 
and  firm  adherence  to  treaties,  his  next  care  was  to  enforce 
submission  and  obedience  to  the  laws  on  the  inhabitants  of 
corporate  towns,  thus  gradually  bringing  them  into  subor- 
dination. By  these  means,  where  his  predecessors  had 
Bpread  ruin  and  confusion,  he  restored  order ;  and  where 
they  had  sown  toil  and  trouble,  he  reaped  the  happiest 
fruits. 

In  short,  he  had  in  a  little  time  restored  tranquillity  over 
so  vast  an  extent  of  country,  so  munificently  provided  for 
his  own  partisans  out  of  the  possessions  of  his  fallen  ene- 
mies, and  such  was  the  liberality  and  courtesy  with  which 
he  won  the  hearts  of  the  Irish  people  and  drew  around  him 
their  natural  leaders,  that  a  deep  suspicion  arose  that  his 
policy  wa-s  to  usurp  all  power  and  dominion,  and,  throwing 
off  his  allegiance,  to  be  crowned  as  king  of  Ireland. 

CHAPTEE  XX. 

A   DESCEIPTION    or    HUGH   DE    LACY. 

If  you  wish  to  have  a  portrait  of  this  great  man,  know  that 
he  had  a  dark  complexion,  with  black,  sunken  eyes,  and 
rather  flat  nostrils,  and  that  he  had  a  burn  on  the  face  from 
some  accident  which  much  disfigured  him,  the  scar  reaching 
down  his  right  cheek  to  his  chin.  His  neck  was  short,  his 
body  hairy  and  very  muscular.  He  was  short  in  stature, 
and  ill-proportioned  in  shape.  If  you  ask  what  were  his 
habits  and  disposition,  he  was  firm  and  stedfast,  as  tempe- 
rate as  a  Frenchman,  very  attentive  to  his  own  private 
affairs,  and  indefatigable  in  public  business  and  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  government  committed  to  his  charge.  Al- 
though he  had  great  exjerience  in  military   affairs,  ae  a 

V 


290  THE   CONQTJEST   OP   lEELAlTD. 

commander  he  liad  no  great  success  in  the  expeditions  which 
he  undertook.  After  he  lost  his  wife  he  abandoned  himself 
to  loose  habits,  and  not  being  contented  with  one  mistress, 
his  amours  were  promiscuous.  He  was  very  covetous  and 
ambitious,  and  immoderately  greedy  of  honour  and  reputa- 
tion. 

At  this  time  flourished  in  Leinster,  where  he  much  dis- 
tinguished himself,  Robert  Fitz-Henry,^  brother  to  Meyler ; 
but  this  flourishing  flower  was  early  nipped  by  the  cold 
blasts  of  winter.  There  also  flourished  at  the  same  time  the 
two  sons  of  Maurice  Fitz-Stephen,  Alexander  and  Griraldus, 
the  latter  of  whom,  though  short  in  stature,  was  a  man  of 
great  prudence  and  worth.  E/obert  le  Poer,  who  commanded 
the  garrison  of  Leighlin  under  Hugh  de  Lacy,  was  also  a 
man  of  note  at  this  time.  At  Waterford  there  was  William 
le  Poer ;  and  Eobert  de  Barri,  the  younger  son  of  Philip, 
flourished  both  on  the  borders  of  Leinster  and  in  Desmond ; 
and  there  were  the  two  Eaymonds,  both  Eaymond  of  Kan- 
titune  and  Raymond  Pitz-Hugh.  About  this  time  the  two 
wonderful  miracles  described  in  my  Topography  occurred  at 
Poure,  in  Meath,  one  which  ensued  on  a  woman's  being 
violated  in  St.  Pechin's  mill,  the  other  in  consequence  of 
the  oats  which  were  stolen  and  secreted.^ 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

THE    AEEIVAL    OF   JOHN   THE    CONSTABLE   AND    EICHAED 
DE    PEC. 

Such  being  the  state  of  affairs,  and  the  suspicions  already 
mentioned  gaining  strength  continually  from  fresh  reports, 
Hugh  de  Lacy  was  recalled,  and  John,  the  constable  of 
Chester,  and  Richard  de  Pec  arrived,  about  the  calends  (the 
first)  of  May,  to  take  the  government,  to  which  they  were 
jointly  commissioned  by  the  king  of  England.  But  before 
Hugh  left  the  country,  they  all  consulted  together  and 
built  several  strongholds  in  different  parts  of  Leinster ;  for 
hitherto  there  were  more  castles  in  Meath  than  in  Leinster. 

^  He  was  the  second  son  of  Henry,  the  king's  illegitimate  son  by 
Ifesta.     See  the  Pedigree. 


2  Chapters  50  and  52. 


HTJGn    DE    LACY    EESTOEED    AS    GOYERNOE.  291 

First,  therefore,  they  now  built  two  castles  in  Fortheret 
and  Onolan,  the  one  for  Eaymond,  the  other  for  his 
brother  Grriffyth.  The  third  was  at  Tristerdermot,  in 
Omurethi  (O'Morough's  country),  for  "Walter  de  Ridenes- 
ford.  The  fourth  was  for  John  de  Clahull,  on  the  water  of 
Barrow,  not  far  from  Leighlin.  The  fifth  at  Zyllacht,  for 
John  de  Hereford.  They  also  took  from  Meyler  Kildare, 
with  the  adjacent  territory,  which  had  been  granted  to  him 
by  earl  E-ichard,  giving  him  in  exchange  on  the  king's  part, 
the  province  of  Lex,^  a  rough  and  woody  country,  exposed  to 
the  enemy's  inroads  and  far  from  succour ;  expressly  select- 
ing so  brave  a  champion  and  marcher  to  defend  this  border. 

CHAPTEH  XXII. 

HOW  HUGH  DE  LACY  WAS  AGAIN  SENT  OYEE  AS  GOYERNOB. 

John  the  Constable  and  E-ichard  de  Pec  having  been  thus 
employed  in  the  island  during  the  summer,  they  were  re- 
called to  England  during  the  ensuing  winter,  and  Hugh 
de  Lacy,  being  restored  to  the  king's  confidence,  had  the 
government  of  Ireland  entrusted  to  him  for  the  second 
time ;  but  a  certain  ecclesiastic,  named  Eobert  of  Salisbury, 
was  joined  in  commission  with  him,  as  his  coadjutor  and 
councillor,  and,  on  the  king's  behalf,  to  be  privy  to  all  his 
doings.  On  Hugh  de  Lacy's  arrival,  he  set  about  building 
several  more  castles,  among  which  was  one  at  Tahmel,  in 
Lex,  for  Meyler,  to  whom  he  also  then  gave  his  niece  in 
marriage.  He  also  built  a  castle  near  to  it,  at  Obowy,  for 
Eobert  de  Bigarz ;  another,  for  Thomas  de  Flandres,  not 
far  distant,  in  Omurethy,  on  the  other  side  of  the  river 
Barrow  ;  and  one  for  Eobert  Fitz-Eichard  at  Norrach.  In 
Meath  he  built  the  castles  of  Clunart  and  Killeen ;  a  castle 
for  Adam  de  Eiceport ;  one  for  Grilbert  de  Nugent ;  and 
many  others  which  it  would  be  tedious  to  enumerate. 

About  this  time  that  strange  meeting  and  talk  between 
the  priest  and  the  wolf,  which  is  fully   described  in  my 

^  The  district  of  Lex  lay  on  the  extreme  west  of  Leinster.  It  was  a 
boggy  and  woody  country,  extending  to  the  river  Shannon.  By  stat. 
8  &  4  of  Philip  and  Mary,  it  was  made  a  county,  called  the  Queen'a 
oounty. 

V  2 


292  THE    CONQUEST    OF    lEELAND. 

Topography,^  occurred  in  a  wood  in  Meatli.  St.  Jerom 
says  that  you  will  find  many  things  in  the  Scriptures  which 
appear  incredible,  and  yet  are  true.  Eor  nature  can  do 
nothing  against  the  Lord  of  nature ;  and  it  is  man's  duty  to 
admire  and  reverence  the  Creator's  works,  whatever  they 
may  be. 

Soon  after  this,  Henry  the  younger,  king  of  England,  the 
son  of  king  Henry,  led  astray,  alas !  by  evil  counsels,  again 
revolted  against  his  father ;  and  in  this  rebellion  he  was 
aided  and  abetted  by  the  powerful  nobles  of  Poitou  and  the 
flower  of  the  youth  of  Prance,  besides  his  brother  Geoffrey, 
earl  of  Britauy,  who  was  the  mainspring  of  the  wicked 
enterprise.  But  before  long,  about  the  calends  (the  first) 
of  June,  the  young  king,  notwithstanding  his  invincible 
valour,  became  the  victim  of  death,  dying  at  Marseilles,^  to 
the  mutual  grief  of  both  armies,  though  it  was  thought  a 
just  judgment  of  God  for  his  ungrateful  conduct  to  his 
father.  A  few  years  afterwards,  Geoffrey,  earl  of  Britany, 
a  brave  soldier  and  eloquent  speaker,  a  worthy  peer  to 
Ulysses  as  well  as  Achilles,  who  had  now  rebelled  for  the 
third  time  against  his  father,  met  his  fate.  He  died  at  Paris 
about  the  calends  (the  first)  of  August.' 

CHAPTEE  XXIII. 

LAUEENCE,    AECHBISHOP   OF   DUBLIN,    DIES   AT    CHATEAU 
D'eU,   and    is    SUCCEEDED    BY    JOHN   COMTN. 

In  the  meantime,  Laurence,  archbishop  of  Dublin,  died  at 
the  castle  of  Eu,"*  in  Normandy,  on  the  eighteenth  of  the 
calends  of  December  [14th  November].  He  was  a  worthy 
and  just  man,  but  incurred  the  king  of  England's  displea- 

1  Distinct,  ii,,  c.  19. 

*  The  text  is  corrupt.  The  young  king  Henry  breathed  his  last  at 
IMartel,  a  village  near  Limoges,  which  city  his  father  was  then  besieging. 
He  died  of  a  sudden  attack  of  dysentery,  on  the  11th  June,  1183,  in 
deep  penitence  for  his  unnatural  conduct. 

3  Geojffrey,  earl  of  Britany,  died  at  Paris,  in  1186,  from  bruise» 
which  he  received  in  a  tournament.     He  was  buried  in  Notre  Dame. 

*  Eu  stands  on  the  Breste,  just  above  its  embouchure  in  the  English 
channel  at  Treport,  in  Normandy.  This  ancient  chateau  of  the  counts 
D'Eu  was  restored  with  great  magnificence  by  the  late  king  Loui« 
Philippe. 


DEATH    OF    THE   ARCHBISHOP  .OF   DUBLiy.  293 

Bure  by  the  privileges  lie  asserted  and  maintained  in  the 
Lateran  council,  at  which  he  was  present,  against  the  king's 
dignity  and  honour,  led,  as  is  reported,  by  zeal  for  his 
nation ;  and  for  this  cause  he  was  long  detained  in  IS^or- 
mandy  and  England.^  A  happy  end  at  last  terminated  his 
long  course  of  travels  and  toils.  Among  many  miracles 
which  Grod  has  wrought  through  this  his  saint,  manifesting 
his  wonders  even  in  the  present  day,  this  remarkable  one 
occurred  while  he  was  in  parts  beyond  the  sea.  Being 
seized  with  mortal  sickness  at  Abbeville,^  the  holy  man,  in 
spite  of  the  remonstrances  of  his  attendants,  refused  to  rest 
there,  saying  that  his  place  of  rest  was  not  there;  and 
having  passed  onwards  on  the  road  to  the  castle  of  Eu,  as 
soon  as  he  came  in  sight  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  and 
was  informed  that  it  was  dedicated  to  the  blessed  Virgin, 
he  quoted  that  verse  from  the  Psalms  in  the  spirit  of  pro- 
phecy :  "  This  shall  be  my  rest  for  ever :  here  will  I  dwell, 
for  I  have  a  delight  therein."  ^  He  died  a  few  days  after- 
wards in  that  place,  and  was  buried  with  due  ceremony  in 
the  mother  church  there,^  the  Lord,  who  did  not  suffer  his 
light  to  be  hid,  working  many  signs  and  wonders  at  his 
tomb. 

He  was  succeeded  by  John  Comyn,  an  Englishman  and  a 

1  See  previous  notices  of  archbishop  Laurence,  particularly  in  a  note 
to  chap.  17,  B.  i.  The  language  of  Griraldus  in  this  place  appears  to 
intimate  that  the  archbishop  was  not  permitted  to  return  to  Ireland 
after  the  conclusion  of  the  Lateran  council,  but  was  detained  in  Nor- 
mandy until  his  death.  There  is,  however,  a  passage  in  Hoveden  which 
presents  a  different  view  of  the  circumstances.  That  historian  states 
that  Laurence  came  from  Ireland  to  Normandy,  bringing  with  him  the 
son  of  Roderic  of  Connaught,  whom  he  delivered  to  the  king  of  Eng- 
land as  a  hostage  for  the  performance  of  the  treaty  made  between  him 
and  the  king  of  Connaught  for  payment  of  tribute ;  shortly  after  which 
he  died  at  Eu,  and  was  buried  there. — Vol  ii.  p.  1.  {Antiq.  Lib.) 

2  Abbeville  is  a  large  town  on  the  Somme,  about  eight  leagues  from  Eu. 
^  Psalm  cxxxii.  15. 

*  Among  the  side-chapels  in  the  church  of  Notre  Dame  at  Eu,  which 
is  built  in  the  early  pointed  style,  there  is  one  dedicated  to  St.  Lau- 
rence, who  was  bm'ied  there.  The  screen  before  this  chapel  is  wcithy  of 
notice ;  and  the  monumental  effigies  of  the  arclibishop,  which  had  been 
mutilated  and  thrown  mto  a  vault,  fiUed  with  rubbish,  at  the  time  of 
the  revolution  in  France,  were  restored  by  Louis  Philippe,  and  with 
those  of  the  counts  d'Eu,  which  had  shared  the  same  fate,  deposited  in 
a  crypt  under  the  church. 


294«  THE  CONQUEST  OF  TEELAND. 

monk  of  Evesham,  who  having  through  the  king's  influence 
been  duly  elected,  without  much  opposition,  by  the  clergy 
of  Dublin,  was  consecrated  by  pope  Lucius  at  Yelletri,  who 
also  appointed  him  a  cardinal  priest.^  He  was  a  man  of 
learning  and  eloquence,  whose  zeal  in  the  cause  of  justice, 
and  for  the  dignity  of  the  office  to  which  he  was  promoted, 
would  have  highly  profited  the  Irish  church,  had  not  the 
spiritual  sword  been  opposed  by  the  temporal,  the  rights  of 
the  priesthood  by  the  royal  power,  virtue  by  jealous  malice. 
For  as  the  flesb  lusteth  against  the  spirit,  so  carnal  men 
oppose  those  who  are  spiritual ;  and  the  servants  of  Caesar 
never  cease  to  maintain  a  warfare  with  the  soldiers  of 
Christ. 


CHA.PTER  XXIV. 

THE  AEBIYAL  IN  lEELAND  OF  .JOHN,  AECHBISHOP  OF  DUBLrS". 

The  king  of  England  had  long  formed  the  design  of  trans- 
ferring to  his  youngest  son,  John,  all  his  dominion  over  Ire- 
land, and,  having  made  the  people  of  that  country  do  him 
homage  accordingly,  now  determined  to  carry  his  design 
into  effect.  He  therefore  sent  over  to  Ireland  John,  the 
new  archbishop  of  Dublin,  about  the  calends  (the  first)  of 
August,  as  his  son's  precursor.  Soon  afterwards,  Hugh  de 
Lacy  ^  having  been  recalled,  Philip  de  Worcester,  a  brave 
soldier,  who  lived  sumptuously  and  spent  freely,  was  ap- 
pointed lieutenant-governor,  and  took  his  passage  to  Ireland 
about  the  calends  of  September,  with  a  body  of  forty  men- 
at  arms.  One  of  his  first  acts  was  to  revoke  the  grants  of 
certain  lands,  and  among  others  those  of  Ocathesi,  which 
Hugh  de  Lacy  had  alienated,  although  they  were  appro- 

^  Jolui  Comyn,  archbishop  of  Diiblin,  1181—1212,  was  of  Scotch 
extraction,  though  born  in  England.  This  bishop  built  and  endowed  the 
cathedral  of  St.  Patrick's  in  Dublin,  about  the  year  1190. — Lucius  III. 
succeeded  pope  Alexander  III.  in  1181.  Our  author's  statement  that 
he  made  John  Comyn  a  cardinal  at  the  time  of  his  consecration,  is  not 
confirmed  by  any  other  authority. 

2  Hugh  de  Lacy  did  not  return  to  England,  but  was  slaiii  on  the  25th 
of  July  of  this  same  year ;  while  superintending  the  erection  of  one  of 
his  castles,  an  Irish  workman  came  behind  him  while  he  was  stooping, 
•ud  struck  oW  his  head  with  an  axe. 


THE    PATEIAECH    HEEACLIUS  COMES  TO  ENGLAND.     295 

priated  to  the  maintenance  of  the  king's  table,  to  which  use 
they  were  now  carefully  restored. 

As  soon  as  the  winter  was  over,  he  assembled  a  large 
body  of  troops,  and  coming  to  Armagh  about  the  calends  of 
March,  exacted,  or  rather  extorted,  from  the  sacred  clergy  a 
monstrous  sum  of  money  by  way  of  tribute,  and  then  with- 
drew his  troops  and  returned  safe  with  his  treasure,  by  way 
of  Down,  to  Dublin.  During  this  expedition  two  miracles 
were  wrought,  one  at  Armagh,  when  he  was  suddenly  smit- 
ten with  sickness  as  he  left  the  city ;  the  other  at  Down,  in 
reference  to  the  fire  there  and  the  cauldron  which  Hugh 
Tyrrell  had  carried  off  from  the  clergy  at  Armagh ;  both  of 
which  are  related  in  the  Topography,  Distinct  ii.  c.  50. 

CHAPTEE  XXy. 

AEEIVAL    or    THE    PATEIAECH    HEEACLirS    IN   ENGLAND. 

While  these  events  were  occurring  in  Ireland,  Heraclius, 
the  venerable  patriarch  of  Jerusalem,  came  to  England 
about  the  calends  (the  first)  of  Eebruary,  after  a  long  jour- 
ney from  the  East  to  the  West.  He  brought  with  him  the 
keys  of  the  holy  city  and  of  the  sepulchre  of  our  Lord, 
together  with  the  royal  standard,  and  a  military  badge,  on 
behalf  as  well  of  the  barons  of  the  Holy  Land,  as  of  the 
brethren  of  the  orders  of  the  Temple  and  Hospital.  He 
also,  in  the  name,  and  by  the  unanimous  consent,  of  the 
whole  ckrgy  and  people  of  Palestine,  made  humble  suppli- 
cation to  Henry  II.,  king  of  England,  and  falling  on  his  feet, 
with  tears  implored  him  that  he  would  take  pity  on  the 
Holy  Land,  Jesus  Christ's  own  patrimony,  now  desperately 
afflicted  by  the  infidels,  and  render  it  aid.^     With  a  sort  of 

^  The  patriarch  of  Jerusalem  was  accompanied  by  Roger  Desmou- 
lins,  grand-master  of  the  Hospital,  and  they  brought  a  letter  from  pope 
Lucius  urging  their  suit.  Neither  Griraldus  nor  Hoveden  expressly 
affirm  that  the  envoys  tendered  the  kingdom  of  Jerusalpm  for  Henry's 
acceptance,  though  the  insignia,  of  which  they  were  the  bearers,  appear 
to  intimate  it.  But  Roger  of  Wendover  distinctly  says  that  the  ambas- 
sadors, commissioned  by  the  estates  of  the  Holy  Land,  did  offer  Henry 
the  throne  of  Jerusalem,  to  which  he  had  some  pretensions  through  his 
father,  GeofTry,  earl  of  Anjou,  the  brother  of  Fulk.  Baldwin,  the  son 
of  Baldwin  the  Leper,  a  boy  five  years  old,  had  just  succeeded  to  tb« 


296  THE    CONQUEST  OF   lEELAND. 

prophetic  view  of  coming  evils,  lie  moreover  affirmed  that, 
before  long,  the  vrhole  kingdom  vs^ould  fall  into  the  hands  of 
the  Saracens  under  Saladin,  who  was  then  prince  both  of 
Egypt  and  Damascus  ;  which  came  to  pass  within  two  years 
afterwards. 

What  glorj  it  was  to  this  king  and  realm  that,  passing  by 
so  many  emperors,  kings,  and  princes  of  other  lauds,  as  if 
there  were  no  remedy  to  be  found  in  so  great  an  emergency 
in  the  centre  of  Europe,  recourse  should  be  had  for  succour 
to  this  furthest  corner  of  the  earth,  another  world  as  it  were, 
cut  off  from  the  rest  in  the  recesses  of  the  ocean !  How 
great,  how  incomparable,  would  have  been  the  glory  of  the 
king,  not  in  this  world  only,  but  in  that  which  is  to  come, 
if,  immediately  setting  aside  all  other  business,  he  had,  at 
the  call  of  Christ,  taken  his  cross  and  followed  him  as  his 
disciple,  from  whom  he  had  received  his  kingdom  upon  earth, 
and,  what  is  more,  the  grace  to  rule  it  with  so  much  glory! 
Verily,  he  should  have  received  a  kingdom  above  for  uphold- 
ing the  rights  of  Christ's  earthly  kingdom  in  this  its  time  of 
need.  Oh  !  if  he  would  have  applied  himself  diligently, 
according  to  the  best  of  his  power,  to  defend  the  patrimony 
of  the  Almighty  King  in  this  day  of  distress,  in  this  trial 
of  devotion,  how  securely  might  he  have  relied  on  the 
guardianship  of  so  great  a  patron  and  protector,  when  his 
own  time  of  need  came. 

CHAPTEE  XXYI. 

THE    king's    EEPLT,    AND     THE     PEOPHETICAL    THREATS    OF 
THE    PATRIAKCH. 

The  king  having  appointed  a  day  for  giving  his  answer  at 
London,^  many  knights  and  persons  of  the  lower  order  took 
the  cross,  being  moved  thereto  by  the  admonitions  of  the 
patriarch,  and  his  sermons  in  public,  together  with  those  of 
that  holy  and  venerable  man,  Baldwin,  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury, addressed   to  the  people  in  persuasive  language. 

throne  ;  but  in  the  present  emergency,  the  policy  of  the  deputies  would 
not  allow  them  to  shrink  from  sacrificing  the  rights  of  the  boy  king  to 
Henry's  ambition. 

'  Henry  received  the  envoys  from  the  Holy  Land  at  Heading,  and 
made  his  reply  at  a  solemn  assembly  of  the  lords  spiritual  and  temporal 
at  Clerkenwell,  on  the  18th  of  March,  1185. 


THE    king's    EEPLT    TO    THE    PATBIAECH.  297 

At  last  the  patriarch  received  this  reply  from  the  king :  that 
it  was  not  safe  to  leave  his  kingdom  without  defence  and 
government,  and  expose  at  the  present  juncture  his  domi- 
nions beyond  sea  to  the  rapacity  of  the  French,  his  mortal 
enemies ;  but  as  to  money,  he  would  freely  contribute  both 
out  of  what  he  had  already  sent  into  those  parts,  placing  it 
at  the  patriarch's  disposal,  and  also  other  monies  which 
should  be  forthwith  delivered  to  him  for  the  defence  of  the 
Holy  Land. 

To  this  the  patriarch  replied  as  follows :  "  You  do  no- 
thing, 0  king,  if  this  be  your  determination,  and  you  per- 
sist in  it.  In  this  way  you  wiE  neither  save  yourself  nor 
preserve  Christ's  patrimony.  "We  come  to  seek  a  prince, 
not  money  ;  nearly  every  part  of  the  world  sends  us  money, 
but  none  sends  a  prince.  Therefore  we  desire  to  have  a 
man  that  may  want  money,  and  not  money  that  may  want 
a  man."  The  patriarch,  finding,  however,  that  he  could 
get  no  other  answer  from  the  king,  changed  his  plan  of  pro- 
ceeding, and  entreated  that  he  would  send  one  of  his  sons 
to  succour  them,  and  become  their  prince,  the  youngest  of 
them,  John,  at  least,  if  no  other ;  that  one  sprung  from  the 
royal  blood  of  the  race  of  Anjou  might  shoot  up  among 
them  as  a  fresh  branch,  and  renew  their  strength.  John 
himself,  although  he  was  then  ready  to  cross  over  to  Ire- 
land, at  the  head  of  a  powerful  force,  to  assume  the  domi- 
nion of  it,  conferred  on  him  by  his  father,  threw  himself  at 
the  king's  feet,  and,  as  it  is  said,  much  to  his  credit,  im- 
plored to  be  sent  to  Jerusalem  instead  of  to  Ireland  ;  but 
his  prayer  was  not  granted. 

Then  the  patriarch,  failing  in  all  his  efforts,  and  perceiv- 
ing that  it  was  in  vain  to  think  of  drawing  honey  from  the 
rock,  or  oil  from  the  flint  stone,  addressed  the  king  as  fol- 
lows, at  a  public  audience,  in  words  which  were  both  ad- 
monitory and  seemingly  uttered  in  the  spirit  of  prophecy  : 
"  Great  king,  you  have  hitherto  reigned  gloriously  above 
all  the  princes  of  the  earth,  and  your  honours  continually 
augmenting,  have  raised  you  to  the  highest  pitch  of  royal 
dignity.  But  you  were  evidently  reserved  for  this  trial,  in 
which  you  have  been  found  wanting ;  and  for  this,  the  Lord 
whom  you  have  forsaken^  will  desert  you,  and  leave  you  des- 
titute of  heavenly  grace.     From  henceforth  your  glory  shal) 


298  THE    CONQUEST   OF   IRELAND. 

be  turned  into  sorrow,  and  your  honour  to  reproacli,  to  the 
end  of  your  days."  Would  to  G-od  that  the  king,  following 
the  example  of  the  king  of  Nineveh,  had,  by  his  repentance, 
made  the  threatening  prediction  of  no  effect,  and  caused 
his  sentence  to  be  reversed  !  The  holy  man,  after  uttering 
this  warning,  first  at  London,  repeated  it,  without  omitting 
a  word,  for  the  second  time  at  Dover,  and  for  the  third,  at 
the  castle  of  Chinon,  beyond  sea. 

Would  to  Grod  that  the  patriarch  had  not  been  gifted 
with  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  and  had  spoken  falsely  ;  or,  that 
the  sentence  had  been  rather  a  commination,  which  money 
might  have  afterwards  redeemed,  than  a  disposition  of  Pro- 
vidence !  But  the  better  to  prove  the  genuineness  of  the 
prophecy,  we  will  briefly  recount  a  few  of  the  events  which 
occurred  afterwards,  according  to  the  prediction  of  the 
herald  of  truth,  which  we  shall  thus  find  to  have  been 
speedily  accomplished  in  the  order  of  Divine  Providence. 
Of  the  five  and  thirty  years  during  which  the  king  reigned, 
thirty  were  granted  him  for  worldly  glory,  in  order  that 
time  might  be  allowed  for  his  conversion,  and  trial  made  of 
his  devotion  to  Grod ;  but  for  the  last  five  years  he  was 
given  up  to  punishment,  sorrow,  and  disgrace,  as  an  un- 
grateful servant,  an  outcast,  and  a  reprobate.  Por  in  the 
thirty-second  year  of  his  reign,  the  very  year  of  the  pro- 
phet's arrival,  as  the  spirit  is  lifted  up  before  a  fall,  his  first 
enterprise  of  sending  his  son  John  into  Ireland,  which  had 
cost  him  so  much  fruitless  toil  and  expense,  failed,  and  came 
to  nothing.  In  the  thirty-third  year  of  his  reign,  the  king, 
who  had  never  lost  any  part  of  his  dominions  before,  but 
was  continually  adding  to  them,  ceded  nearly  all  Auvergne 
to  Philip  king  of  Prance,  who,  although  of  tender  years, 
manfully  took  up  arms  against  him,  and  obtained  amends 
for  his  father's  losses.  In  the  thirty-fourth  year  he  lost  the 
castle  of  Chateauroux,^  and  nearly  all  Berri.  In  the  thirty- 
fifth  year  of  his  reign,  being  the  fourth  after  the  coming  of 
the  patriarch,  not  only  Philip  king  of  Prance,  but  also  his 

^  Giraldus  calls  it  "  castrum  Rad."  Chateaiiroux  is  now  the  chief 
town  of  the  department  of  the  Indre  ;  it  took  its  name  from  Raoul  or 
Ralph  de  Deols,  its  founder,  in  the  tenth  centuiy.  Issoudun,  another  for- 
tress in  the  neighbourhood,  fell  into  the  hands  of  Phijip  at  the  saact 
time. 


THE  PEINCES  TAKE  THE  CEOSS.  299 

own  son,  the  earl  of  Poitiers,  taking  arms  against  him,  lie 
lost  the  cities  of  Mans  and  Tours,  with  many  castles,  and 
finally,  his  own  life.  So  true  is  what  the  Psalmist  says  : 
"  Because  of  thine  indignation  and  wrath,  thou  hast  taken 
me  up  and  cast  me  down.^  "  And  Gregory  says  :  "  Those 
whom  the  Lord  hath  long  spared  for  their  conversion,  if 
they  be  not  converted,  he  condemneth  more  grievously." 

THE    PRINCES    TAKE    THE    CEOSS. 

Peecha:n-ce,  however,  the  king  is  reserved  by  Divine  Provi- 
dence to  receive  the  palm  as  the  reward  of  more  earnest 
love.  How  much  better  is  it  to  restore  what  is  utterly  de- 
stroyed than  to  prop  up  things  in  a  ruinous  condition,  to 
lift  the  fallen  than  to  support  the  falling.  A  sounder  cure 
is  made  by  using  the  knife  than  by  patching  up  a  sore. 
And  since — 

"  Hectora  quis  nosset,  felix  si  Troja  fuisset  ? 
Ardua  per  prseceps  gloria  stravit  iter." 
"  Who  would  have  heard  of  Hector,  but  for  ruined  Troy  ! 
A  rugged  path  they  tread  who  glory's  meed  enjoy." 

The  deeper  a  man  is  plunged  in  adversity,  and  the  more 
the  clouds  of  trouble  thicken  around  him,  the  brighter 
shines  forth  his  worth  when  the  sky  is  again  clear.  Eor 
two  years  had  scarcely  past,  when  by  the  occult  but  right- 
eous judgment  of  God,  the  Pagans  and  Parthians  were  al- 
lowed to  gain  the  victory  over  the  Christians,  either  in 
punishment  of  the  languid  zeal  of  the  Eastern  church,  or 
to  try  the  faith  and  stedfast  obedience  of  the  Western 
nations.  No  sooner  had  Eichard,  the  illustrious  earl  of 
Poitiers,  heard  this  calamitous  intelligence,  than  even  be- 
fore the  report  was  confirmed,  he  took  the  cross  with  ear- 
nest devotion  at  the  city  of  Tours,  setting  an  example  of 
noble  enterprise  to  the  other  princes  on  this  side  the  Alps. 
Moreover,  the  earl's  father,  the  king  of  England,  together 
with  Philip,  king  of  Prance,  burying  their  previous  animo- 
sities, took  the  cross,  with  laudable  emulation,  at  the  same 
place  and  at  the  same  hour,  in  a  conference  at  Gisors,  at  the 
instance  of  the  archbishop  of  Tyre,  who  came  there  for  the 
purpose,  and  under  the  influence  of  divine  grace  ;  and  their 
example  was  followed  on  the  spot  by  great  numbers,  both 
'  Psalm  cii.  v.  10. 


300  THE    CONQUEST   OE   IRELAND. 

of  the  clergy  and  laity,  who  were  of  one  heart.  And  as 
kings  followed  the  earl's  example,  so  after  the  example  of  the 
kings,  and  by  the  persuasions  of  the  venerable  bishop  of 
Albano,  a  cardinal  of  the  E-oman  church,  (by  His  inspira- 
tion, from  whom  all  holy  desires,  good  thoughts,  and  just 
works  are  derived,)  the  emperor  Frederick  took  the  cross, 
with  great  ceremony,  at  Lsetare  Hierusalem  (the  fourth 
Sunday  of  Lent,)  at  the  famous  city  of  Mentz,  with  the 
princes  and  great  men  of  Grermany,  both  ecclesiastical  and 
temporal,  in  the  large  court  there  which  the  bishop  called 
G-od's  court.  Wherefore  the  king  of  England,  having  been 
reserved,  as  it  was  thought,  above  the  rest,  for  the  restora- 
tion of  the  Holy  Land  from  its  calamitous  condition,  if  he 
had  crowned  his  long  course  of  prosperity  with  this  final 
success,  he  would  doubtless  have  fulfilled  that  famous  pro- 
phecy of  Merlin  Ambrosius :  "  In  the  beginning  he  shall 
yield  to  unruly  passions,  but  in  the  end  he  shall  mount  to 
heaven." 

CHAPTEE  XXYII. 

SUDDEN"   DISCORD    BETWEEN   THE    KINGS. 

iN'oTWiTH STANDING,  howcvcr,  this  wonderful  unanimity,  a 
sudden  and  unlooked-for  discord  broke  out  between  the 
kings,  and,  what  was  worse,  between  the  earl  and  his  father, 
through  the  devices  of  the  old  enemy  of  mankind,  and  by 
the  permission  of  the  Euler  of  the  universe  for  the  punish- 
ment of  their  sins ;  so  that  their  noble  enterprise  was  ex- 
posed to  detriment  and  delay.  It  seemed  as  if  they  were 
unworthy  of  the  honour  of  redeeming  Jerusalem,  and  that 
Divine  Providence  reserved  it  for  others ;  or,  perhaps,  as 
Gregory  observes  :  "  Adversity,  when  it  stands  in  the  way 
of  good  designs,  is  rather  a  trial  of  virtue  than  a  mark  of 
reprobation."  Who  is  ignorant  for  how  blessed  a  purpose 
Paul  was  urged  to  sail  for  Italy,  and  yet  he  sufi'ered  ship- 
wreck ;  but  violent  as  was  the  tempest,  his  heart  was  firm 
in  the  midst  of  the  waves.  Thus,  as  virtue  is  perfected 
through  weakness,  and  gold  is  tried  in  the  fire,  the  con- 
stancy of  faith,  which  cannot  be  shaken,  only  grows  the 
more,  like  the  grain  of  mustard-seed ;  and  the  strong  mind 
resists,  with  greater  courage,  adverse  occurrences  and  severe 
assaults 


A   VISION,    AND    THE    EXPLAXATION.  301 

"Would  that  our  princes  had  engaged  in  this  expedition, 
supported  by  popular  opinion  and  cheered  by  general  ap- 
plause, with  only  money  enough  for  their  expenses  on  the 
way,  and  that  obtained  by  fair  means,  not  extorted  from 
their  subjects,  freely  and  not  niggardly  given ;  and  with  a 
pure  and  clear  conscience.  How  much  rather  had  I  that 
these  princes  had  set  forth  on  this  toilsome  but  glorious 
journey,  thus  pure  in  heart,  and  with  a  much  smaller  com- 
pany of  men  acceptable  to  God,  than,  wanting  these,  that 
they  should  in  this  great  trial  boast  in  the  multitude  of 
their  riches  collected  from  all  quarters,  and  in  the  numbers 
of  their  host  gathered  from  many  nations  and  not  agreeing 
together.  Look  through  the  whole  Bible,  examine  the  his- 
tory of  later  times,  especially  as  it  relates  to  those  countries, 
and  you  will  always  find  that  victories  have  been  gained 
not  by  numbers  but  by  valour,  by  the  virtues  of  those  who 
won  them,  and  by  Divine  grace,  rather  than  by  human 
power.  Cassiodorus  says,  "  A  people  in  arms,  without  the 
Lord,  is  unarmed ;"  and  Seneca,  "  It  is  not  the  number  of 
the  people,  but  the  valour  of  a  few,  which  secures  the 
victory." 

CHAPTEE  XXYIII. 

OF    THE    EMPEEOB    EEEDEEICK. 

Of  the  four  just  mentioned,  the  emperor  Frederick,  although 
he  was  the  last  of  the  Cisalpine  princes  who  took  the  cross, 
yet,  wdth  commendable  expedition,  he  was  the  first  in  the 
execution  of  the  undertaking.  I  count  him  the  more 
worthy  of  the  palm  of  victory  in  heaven  and  of  glory  upon 
earth,  because  he  forsook  larger  dominions  and  states  than 
the  rest,  and,  unrestrained  by  the  care  of  his  vast  empire, 
was  resolute  in  keeping  the  time  appointed  for  setting  out. 

CHAPTEE  XXIX. 

A  TISION,  AND  THE  EXPLANATION  THEREOF, 

I  THINK  it  not  irrelevant  that  I  should  relate  here  a  vision, 
which,  during  the  misery  of  these  times  and  the  insults  paid 
to  the  cross  of  Christ,  He  who  sometimes  maketh  known  to 
the  simple  what  he  concealeth  from  the  wise,  revealed  to  me, 


802  THE    COKQTIEST    OF    lEELAKD. 

tlie  vilest  and  least  of  bis  servants,  whom  yet  the  Lord 
vouchsafed  to  visit  in  this  vision.  In  that  civil  and  mopt 
detestable  discord  which  broke  out  about  this  time  between 
the  king  of  England  and  the  earl  of  Poitou,  I  was  in 
attendance  upon  the  king  at  the  castle  of  Chinon/  when,  on 
the  night  of  the  sixth  of  the  ides  of  May  [10th  May],  being 
asleep,  about  the  first  cock-crowing,  methought  I  saw  a 
great  crowd  of  people  looking  up  into  heaven  and  wonder- 
ing at  some  new  appearance.  So,  lifting  up  my  eyes  to  see 
what  it  was,  I  beheld  flashes  of  brilliant  light  breaking 
through  the  thick  canopy  of  the  clouds,  which  suddenly 
parted,  and  the  lower  heaven  being  as  it  were  thus  opened, 
and  my  eyesight  penetrating  through  that  window,  even 
into  the  empyreum,  or  heaven  of  heavens,  the  celestial 
courts,  thronged  with  multitudes,  were  exposed  to  view. 
There  appeared  armed  hosts  around,  engaged  in  the  work  of 
destruction,  and,  as  it  were,  arrayed  for  the  slaughter  of 
their  enemies.  Tou  might  see  there  a  head  struck  off  fi'om 
one,  an  arm  from  another;  some  were  pierced  with  arrows 
lanced  from  afar,  others  with  spears  close  at  hand,  and 
others  thrust  through  with  swords.  Many  of  the  beholders, 
dazzled  by  the  excessive  brightness,  or  moved  to  terror  or 
devotion  by  the  awful  scene,  fell  on  their  faces  to  the  earth ; 
but  methought  that  I,  wishing  to  see  the  end  of  the  matter, 
continued  to  observe  what  was  passing  much  longer  and 
more  closely  than  the  rest. 

And  now  the  murderous  crew,  having  quickly  triumphed 
over  all  the  rest,  united  their  forces  to  assault  the  Prince  of 
the  heavenly  host  sitting  in  the  midst,  on  the  throne  of  his 
majesty,  as  he  is  wont  to  be  painted,  and  dragging  him  from 
his  throne  on  the  right  hand,  and  having  laid  bare  his  breast, 
they  thrust  a  spear  into  his  right  side.  Thereupon,  a  ter- 
rible voice  was  immediately  heard,  crying  "  "Woch,Woch,  O 
Father  and  Son!  Woch,  Woch,  O  Holy  Ghost!"  But 
whether  it  came  from  above,  or  was  uttered  by  the  people 
who  were  round  me,  I  cannot  tell ;  and  then  the  terror  of 
the  voice  and  the  vision  woke  me  from  my  sleep. 

^  Chinon  was  the  favourite  residence  of  Henry  II.,  and  our  other 
Plantagenet  kings,  as  well  as  of  the  earlier  French  kings.  Its  vast 
ruins  are  still  seen  on  a  nearly  insulated  rock  on  the  bank  of  the  rivef 
Vienne,  just  above  its  junction  with  the  Loire. 


A   TISIOK,    AND    THE    EXPLAK-ATION.  303 

I  call  Him  here  to  witness,  to  whom  all  things  are  naked 
and  open,  that  as  I  sat  on  my  bed  and  reflected  on  what  I  had 
seen,  I  was  in  such  horror,  both  of  mind  and  body,  for  more 
than  half-an-hour,  that  I  feared  that  I  was  beside  myself 
and  was  become  demented.  But  having  recourse  without 
delay  to  that  best  source  of  human  safety,  I  repeatedly 
making  the  sign  of  the  cross  on  my  forehead  and  breast  with 
great  devotion  ;  and  thus  fortified,  I  passed  the  rest  of  the 
night  till  the  dawn  of  day  without  sleep,  and  so,  by  God's 
grace,  recovering  my  senses,  I  was  at  length  restored  to  a 
full  sense  of  security.  But  never  to  this  day  can  I  recall  to 
mind  that  vision,  but  with  the  utmost  horror.  For  what 
can  be  more  terrible  than  for  a  creature  to  behold  his  Cre- 
ator pierced  with  the  sword  ?  "Who  can  bear  to  see  the 
citizens  of  heaven,  the  servants  of  Grod,  and  the  patrons  of 
mankind,  dragged  to  slaughter,  without  being  overwhelmed 
with  grief?  AVTio  can  see  the  Lord  of  nature  and  Maker 
of  the  universe  suflTer,  and  not  suffer  with  him  ? 

What  the  vision  meant,  and  what  it  portended,  I  will  now 
briefly  shew  without  any  prejudice.  He  who  once  suffered 
in  his  own  person  on  behalf  of  his  people,  shews  us  that 
he  suffers  now  again,  but  in  his  servants ;  and  having 
triumphed  by  the  cross,  and,  ascending  to  the  right  hand  of  his 
Father,  taken  possession  of  his  victorious  kingdom,  his  ene- 
mies now  strive  to  drag  from  his  throne,  dim  his  majesty, 
and  subvert  his  church,  which  he  hath  purchased  to  himself 
by  shedding  his  blood.  "Wherefore,  as  I  suppose,  this  vision 
did  not  represent  his  passion  on  the  cross,  but  in  his  majesty 
above  ;  as  though  the  cross  being  now  taken  away,  his  ene- 
mies attempted  to  deprive  him  of  the  glory  of  that  majesty 
which  he  gained  by  the  cross.  Or  rather,  it  may  be  sup- 
posed, that  as  his  servants  are  now  suffering  in  that  Holy 
Land,  which  he,  after  so  many  miraculous  signs  of  his  cor- 
poral presence,  consecrated  by  his  own  blood ;  sufferings, 
indeed,  not  on  the  cross,  but  in  arms  and  the  conflicts  of 
war ;  so  he  willed  that  the  passion  which  he  now  in  some 
sort  suflTers  in  the  persons  of  his  servants  should  be  set 
forth  where  he  reigns  above  in  co-equal  majesty  with  the 
Father,  and  not  on  the  cross.  For  he  himself  testified  that 
he  should  suffer  w^ith  Peter  the  same  sort  of  punishment 


304  TUE    COJfQUEST    OP    IRELAND. 

which  he  was  about  to  undergo  at  Rome,  when  he  said,  "  I 
am  come  to  Home  to  be  crucified  again." 

As  concerning  the  words  uttered  by  the  voice  beginning 
in  a  barbarous  language  and  ending  in  Latin,  I  will  mention 
what  I  think.  Woch,  Woch,  in  the  German  tongue,  is  a 
sort  of  interjection  repeated,  and  signifying  woe ;  it  means 
the  same  as  if  it  were  said,  Alas  !  alas !  Father  and  Son  ! 
alas !  alas  !  Holy  Grhost !  And  by  that  woful  moan,  begin- 
ning in  Grerman,  and  ended  in  Ijatin,  it  may  signify  that 
the  nations  who  use  those  tongues  are  the  only  people  who 
wdth  their  prijices  take  this  af&iction  of  our  Saviour  seriously 
to  heart,  as  is  evident  from  their  being  the  most  forward 
in  their  preparations  to  avenge  it.  Grod  forbid  that  the  pas- 
sion or  lamentation  should  be  understood  as  referring  to 
any  slaughter  of  the  faithful  which  may  hereafter  happen, 
and  more  especially  to  the  nations  engaged  in  this  expedi- 
tion. 

CHAPTER  XXX. 

OF  THE  REMAEKABLE  EYENTS    OF    OUR   TIMES    IN   ENGLAND. 

I  THINK  it  not  irrelevant  to  introduce,  by  way  of  episode, 
occasion  offering,  some  account  of  certain  occurrences  and 
remarkable  events  which  have  happened  in  England  within 
my  own  memory.^  First,  we  have  the  sudden  deaths  of 
those  who  withheld  the  kingdom  of  England  from  the  right 
heir,  Henry,  who  was  grandson  to  king  Henry  I.,  by  his 
daughter  Matilda  ;  namely,  the  sudden  deaths  of  the  illus- 
trious knight,  Eustace,  king  Stephen's  son,  and  the  son-in- 
law  of  Louis,  king  of  France,  and  that  of  his  mother, 
Matilda,  queen  of  England  and  countess  of  Bologne.  Next 
we  have  the  treaty  of  adoption  made  between  Stephen,  king 
of  England,  and  Henry,  duke  of  Normandy  ;  the  death  of 
king  Stephen ;  the  marriage  of  queen  Eliauor,  and  the  trans- 
lation from  crown  to  crown.  Then  the  duke's  elevation  to 
the  throne,  and  coronation  as  Henry  II. ;  the  siege  of  the 
famous  castle  of  Bridgnorth  on  the  river  Severn ;  and  the 

^  It  would  be  out  of  place  to  offer  any  illustrations  in  detail  of  the 
series  of  events  and  occurrences  in  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  which  Giral- 
dus  briefly  recounts  in  this  chapter ;  especially  as  our  author  throws 
no  fresh  light  on  contemporary  or  other  authentic  annals,  which  are 
aow  generally  accessible  by  means  of  the  Antiquarian  Library 


CONTEMPOBAET   ETENTS.  305 

compulsory  surrender  of  the  brave  knight,  Hugh  de  Morti- 
mer, a  terrible  example  to  all  the  world.  What  need  is 
there  of  many  words  ?  To  make  what  was  rough,  smooth, 
and  to  confound  that  which  was  strong,  his  success  ended 
in  the  ruin  not  only  of  the  usurpers  of  the  kingdom,  but  of 
those  who  disturbed  the  peace  of  the  realm,  first  of  the 
brothers  and  then  afterwards  of  the  sons. 

In  jN"orth  Wales,  the  fortune  of  war  changing,  prince 
Owen  was  overcome,  though  not  without  the  loss  of  many 
of  our  soldiers,  in  a  woody  pass  near  Coieshylle,  that  is  the 
Hill  of  Coals.  A  useless  but  sumptuous  and  noble  expe- 
dition to  Thoulouse.  Frequent  hostilities  between  Louis 
king  of  France,  and  Henry  king  of  England,  through  the 
cabals  on  both  sides.  In  South  Wales,  the  surrender  of 
prince  Ithys,  by  the  intervention  of  his  uncle  Owen,  at 
Pencader,^  that  is,  the  head  of  the  chair,  when  the  king  of 
England  thundered  against  him.  The  acceptance  of  the 
Constitutions  made  at  Clarendon,  both  in  word  and  writing, 
by  Thomas,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  his  suffragans  ; 
not  voluntary,  but  said  to  be  extorted  from  them.  Then  ap- 
peared to  be  fulfilled  the  prophecy  of  Merlinus  Ambrosius : 
"  And  the  tongues  of  the  bulls  shall  be  cut  out."  At  North- 
ampton, the  insulting  cries  raised  by  the  whole  court  against 
the  holy  father,  defending  his  right  of  having  the  cross  carried 
before  him,  and  his  privately  withdrawing  the  same  night, 
and  going  into  exile.  The  embassy  of  Heginald,  archbishop 
of  Cologne  and  chancellor  of  the  emperor,  to  the  king  of 
England,  from  the  emperor  Frederick,  who  succeeded  in  ne- 
gotiating a  treaty  of  marriage  between  the  emperor's  eldest 
son,  Henry,  duke  of  Saxouy  and  Bavaria,  and  the  king's 
eldest  daughter,  Matilda.  His  efibrts,  however,  to  propagate 
the  schism  of  the  Grerman  church  failed.  Notwithstanding, 
the  king  soon  afterwards  made  a  proclamation  against  the 
rights  of  the  chair  of  St.  Peter,  and  the  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury. Soon  afterwards,  count  Gruncelinus,  and  other  great 
Saxon  nobles,  came  to  England,  as  envoys  on  the  duke's 
behalf,  to  escort  the  king's  daughter. 

The  coronation  of   Henry  III.,  son  of  king  Henry,  cele- 
brated at  London  by  the  archbishop  of  York,  to  the  pre- 
judice of  the  rights  of  the  church   of  Canterbury.     Am- 
'  See  the  Itiiierarr  of  "Wales,  lib.  i.  c.  2. 

X 


906  THE    COF(^UEST    OF   lEELAJTD. 

bassadors  came  from  Spain  and  obtained  the  king's  consent 
to  the  marriage  of  his  daughter  Elianor  with  Alphonso  king 
of  Toledo  and  Castile.  I>ermitms  being  driven  into  exile,  re- 
sorts to  the  king  of  England ;  and  Fitz-Stephen,  first,  and 
afterwards  earl  Richard,  sail  over  to  Ireland.  The  noble  ex- 
pedition from  Album  Monasterium  into  Powis,  and  its  safe 
return,  notwithstanding  the  floods  from  heavy  rains,  after 
the  beheading  of  the  hostages  and  destruction  of  many  of 
his  enemies.  The  martyrdom  of  St.  Thomas.  Glorious 
miracles  at  his  tomb.  The  happy  death  of  that  right  noble 
man,  distinguished  alike  for  his  talents  and  high  descent, 
being  of  the  royal  blood  of  England,  Henry,  bishop  of 
Winchester,^  who  died  there.  The  king's  expedition  to 
Ireland.  The  conspiracy  of  nobles  against  their  prince,  and 
of  sons  against  their  father.  The  cardinals  come  to  Nor- 
mandv  to  investigate  the  murder  of  the  martyr  Thomas. 
The  king's  sudden  return  from  Ireland  into  Wales,  from 
Wales  to  England,  and  thence  to  Normandy;  and  his 
speedy  pacification  with  both  the  cardinals,  and  with  the  king 
of  France.  The  first  withdrawal  of  the  young  king  with  his 
two  brothers  from  his  father's  court  to  France.  The  king's 
unexpected  success  in  the  unnatural  two  year's  war,  and  his 
clemency  to  the  vanquished,  which  I  have  shortly  men- 
tioned, noticing  the  capture  of  the  earls  of  Chester  and 
Leicester  and  the  king  of  Scotland,  at  the  end  of  the  last 
Book.  Huguntio  Peter  Leo,  cardinal  of  St.  Angelo,  being 
sent  as  the  pope's  legate  to  England,  convokes  a  synod  of 
all  the  clergy  of  England  at  London ;  which  was  abruptly 
terminated  by  reason  of  the  contention  between  Eichard, 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  Eoger,  archbishop  of  York, 
respecting  the  primacy  and  the  precedence  of  their  churches; 
the  controversy  leading  to  a  broil,  in  which  the  partizans 
on  both  sides  fought  with  their  fists,  sticks,  and  staves.  The 
bishop  of  Capua,  and  Diaferus,  bishop-elect  of  Troga,^with 
count  Fleuri,  came  as  ambassadors  from  William  king  of 

^  Henry  de  Blois,  brother  of  king  Stephen,  who  took  so  active  a 
part  in  the  polities  of  that  turbulent  reign,  but  after  the  accession  of 
Henry  II.  appears  to  have  lived  in  retirement  at  Winchester.  Wen- 
dover  informs  us  that  Henry  visited  him  on  his  death-bed,  and  that  the 
bishop,  reproach ingliim  for  the  death  of  the  martyr  Becket,  foretold  many 
of  the  evils  which  would  come  upon  him  on  account  of  it.  The  bishop 
died  full  of  years,  the  next  day,  the  8th  of  August,  1171.     '  In  Naplet . 


CONTEMPOEAET   ETENTS.  307 

Sicily,  to  negotiate  a  marriage  between  their  prince  and 
the  king's  youngest  daughter,  Joanna. 

Ambassadors  from  the  Spanish  kings  of  Castile  and  Ka- 
varre  arrived  in  England  to  submit  the  claims  of  those  kings 
to  certain  territories  and  castles,  about  which  they  had  grave 
disputes,  to  the  arbitration  of  the  king  of  England,  their 
masters  having  pledged  themselves  to  abide  by  it.  "Where- 
fore the  king  having  assembled  at  London  the  wisest  and 
most  learned  men  in  the  kingdom,  of  both  orders,  that  the 
merits  of  the  case  might  be  impartially  investigated,  the 
allegations  on  both  sides  were  heard  before  them  from  the 
mouths  of  most  famous  advocates,  among  whom  Peter  of 
Cordova,  who  came  on  the  part  of  the  king  of  Navarre,  was 
most  distinguished  for  his  extraordinary  eloquence.  The 
king  having  the  advantage  of  wise  counsel,  and  resolving 
to  adopt  a  middle  course,  and  remove  all  grounds  for  future 
quarrels,  gave  part  to  one,  and  took  away  part  from  the 
other,  so  that  neither  of  them  should  suffer  serious  loss ; 
for  having  been  appointed  umpire  between  the  two,  he  was 
anxious  to  promote,  as  far  as  he  could,  the  security  of  each. 
The  proceedings  having  been  put  in  shape  and  reduced  to 
writing,  the  king,  for  greater  caution,  caused  a  formal  judg- 
ment to  be  signed,  in  order  that  if  either  party  should  re- 
fuse to  stand  by  the  proceedings,  all  controversy  might  be 
quashed  by  his  definitive  sentence.^ 

Louis  king  of  France  came  to  England,  and  went  on  a 
pilgrimage  to  Canterbury,  for  the  purpose  of  devoutly  im- 
ploring the  patronage  of  the  blessed  martyr,  on  whom  he  had 
heaped  favours  during  his  exile.  The  king  having  made  an 
ofiering  of  a  cup  of  gold  of  great  value  and  exquisitely 
wrought,  at  the  spot  where  the  sacred  remains  were  laid, 
prostrated  himself  for  a  while  at  the  martyr's  tomb,  lay- 
ing his  bare  head  at  the  opening  on  the  right  side  of  the 
marble  slab  ;  and  then  rising  from  his  devotions,  that  the 
remembrance  of  his  pilgrimage  might  be  preserved  by 
some  perpetual  benefaction,  he  gave  to  the  abbey  at 
Canterbury    a  hundred  tuns  of   wine,  annually  for  ever ; 

^  Our  author  is  more  diffuse  in  his  account  of  this  transaction,  than 
in  his  records  of  other  occurrences  of  greater  importance.  Hoveden 
gives  full  details,  and  has  preserved  all  the  documentB,  relating  to  tht 
arbitration.     See  pp.  459 — 465,  vol.  ii.  in  Antiq,  Lib. 

X   2 


808  THE    CONQUEST    OF   lEELAITD. 

and  this  he  did  in  the  presence  of  the  king  of  England,  the 
count  of  Planders,  the  archbishop  of  the  see,  and  the  prior 
of  the  convent,  and  other  great  men.  The  second  quarrel 
between  king  Henry  III.  and  earl  Geoffrey,  and  the  un- 
timely death  of  the  younger  king  at  Marseilles.  Grodfrey, 
archbishop  of  Cologne,  and  Philip,  count  of  Flanders,  came 
to  England  on  a  pilgrimage  to  Canterbury.  The  death  of 
earl  Geoffrey.  The  coming  of  the  patriarch  Heraclius,  and 
the  first  expedition  of  John,  the  king's  son,  across  the  sea, 
to  Ireland. 

Almost  all  these  events  happened  in  my  own  time,  in  the 
order  in  which  they  are  here  placed,  at  no  long  intervals, 
and  in  about  the  period  of  thirty-three  years. 

O  how  happy  should  I  have  been  to  admit  the  great  pros- 
perity he  enjoyed,  to  whose  glory  nearly  all  these  occur- 
rences tended,  and  who  was  favoured  by  fortune  (if  there  be 
such  a  thing  as  fortune)  in  so  many  instances,  had  he  only 
wound  up  the  drama  of  his  life  by  a  good  end,  and  doubling, 
nay,  immeasurably  augmenting,  the  favours  graciously  con- 
ferred upon  him,  passed  from  his  terrestrial  glory  to  that 
which  is  eternal.  This,  as  far  as  I  can  conjecture,  he  would 
doubtless  have  done,  if,  in  return,  as  it  were,  for  the  many 
mercies  bestowed  on  him  here,  he  had  sought  his  reward 
even  on  earth,  by  giving  himself  up  with  devotion  and 
promptitude  to  that  noble  vocation,  to  which  Christ  invited 
him,  and  obeying  the  call  without  hindrance  or  delay. 
Having  reigned  gloriously,  so  far  as  this  world  is  concerned, 
for  thirty  years,  he  might  well  have  devoted  the  last  five 
years  of  his  life,  that  short  space  of  time,  or  even,  if  his  life 
were  spared,  the  whole  of  his  remaining  days,  to  the  service 
of  God,  and  thus  would  have  reigned  with  Christ,  filled  the 
whole  of  Christendom  with  the  renown  of  his  arms,  and 
gained  eternal  as  well  as  earthly  glory.  Until  this  point 
the  king's  prosperity  was  always  on  the  increase,  and  ad- 
vancing to  the  highest  pitch ;  thenceforth  his  fortunes 
somewhat  declined,  and  he  sustained  many  disasters  to 
which  he  was  before  a  stranger.  Every  wise  man  must  re- 
mark the  instability  of  fortune,  and  those  changes  which 
very  few  escape,  even  in  the  prime  of  life,  and  scarcely  any 
who  live  to  be  old.  What  was  it  that  brought  to  an  end 
the  gbry  pf  Pompey  the  Great  ?     He  had  triumphed  in  all 


EXPEDITION    OF    JOHN    TO    IRELAND.  309 

parts  of  the  world,  and  had  raised  himself  to  such  an 
ascendancy  at  Eome,  that,  as  often  happened  in  ancient 
times,  having  ascended  the  steps  which  lead  to  the  summit 
of  power,  he  could  neither  mount  higher,  nor  make  good 
his  footing,  and  so  he  fell  from  the  top  to  the  bottom. 
Wherefore,  after  having  filled  the  high  office  of  dictator, 
as  the  first  man  in  the  state,  after  gaining  so  many  victo- 
ries over  various  nations,  fortune  at  last  seemed  to  grow 
tired  of  him,  and  deserted  him,  and  haviug  lost  the  empire, 
both  of  the  West  and  the  East,  this  once  victorious  man 
died  ignominiously.     So  that  the  poet  Lucan  says  : 

"  O  faciles  dare  summa  deos,  eademque  tueri 
Difficiles.»' 

What  was  it,  on  the  contrary,  that  secured  to  Julius 
Caesar  or  to  Alexander  of  Macedon  such  imperishable  re- 
nown but  this,  that  when  they  had  reached  the  summit  of 
their  fortunes,  sudden  death  came,  in  each  case,  from  a  reverse. 
Princes  should  also  constantly  bear  in  mind  that  although 
the  Maker  and  Euler  of  the  world  is  long-patient,  desiring 
the  conversion  of  a  sinner  rather  than  his  destruction,  and 
is  merciful  to  those  who  are  converted  and  amend  their 
lives ;  he  pours  forth  his  wrath  on  the  reprobate  and  im- 
penitent, and  often  begins  their  punishment  in  this  life. 

CHAPTEE  XXXI. 

THE    riEST    EXPEDITION    OF   JOHN,    THE    KING's    SON,    TO 
lEELAND.^ 

All  things  necessary  for  this  great  expedition  having  been 
prepared  and  made  ready  by  the  royal  commands,  John, 

'  Giraldus  uow  returns  to  his  History  of  the  Conquest  of  Ireland, 
and  that  part  of  it  with  which  he  was  personally  conversant ;  but  we 
cannot  help  feeling  some  disappointment  at  his  supplying  us  with  very 
meagre  details  of  the  restdts  of  an  expedition  so  pompously  commenced, 
and  for  which  such  vast  preparations  had  been  made.  The  truth  is, 
that  he  had  little  to  relate ;  for,  as  he  acknowledges  in  a  subsequent 
chapter,  it  was  a  complete  failure.  The  levity,  and  other  worse  traits, 
of  king  John's  character  were  early  developed ;  and  all  he  did  in  Ire- 
land, where  he  only  remained  a  few  months,  was  to  amass  money  and 
squander  it  on  his  pleasures.  Cotemporary  historians  barely  notice  the 
expedition.     Hoveden,  after  mentioning  John's  crossing  over  to  Ire- 


810  THE    CONQtTEST   OF   lEELAITD. 

the  king  of  England's  youngest  son,  on  whom  the  donwnKm 
of  Ireland  had  been  lately  conferred,  took  his  journey  by 
the  coast  road  of  South  Wales  towards  Menevia,  and  arrived 
at  Pembroke.  He  was  accompanied  by  a  person  of  the 
highest  station,  Eanulf  de  Grlanville,  the  king's  chief  privy 
counsellor  and  justiciary  of  all  England,  who  conducted  him 
on  board  ship.  On  Wednesday  in  Easter  week,  the  breeze 
blowing  favourably  from  the  eastward,  he  embarked  in  the 
noble  fleet  which  lay  at  anchor  in  Milford  harbour,  and  on 
account  of  the  sudden  change  of  wind  was  prevented  visiting 
the  venerable  church  of  St.  David's,  an  unpropitious  omen. 
Setting  sail  the  same  evening,  the  fleet  accomplished  ita 
passage  and  reached  the  port  of  Waterford  about  noon  on 
the  day  following,  having  on  board  about  three  hundred 
men-at-arms,  and  a  large  force  of  horse  soldiers  and  archers. 
Several  ecclesiastics  were  sent  over  in  company  with  the 
prince,  and  in  the  same  ship,  one  of  whom  was  specially 
appointed  by  the  king  to  attend  his  son.  Being  a  diligent 
investigator  of  natural  history,  and  having  spent  two  years 
in  the  island,  in  this  expedition  and  on  a  former  occasion,' 
he  brought  back  with  him,  as  the  profit  and  reward  of  his 
labours,  materials  for  composing  his  Vaticinal  History  and 
Topography.  These  he  afterwards  digested  and  arranged, 
during  intervals  of  leisure,  while  attending  the  court  in 
Britany,  employing  the  labour  of  three  years  on  the  Topo- 
graphy, and  of  two  years  on  the  Yaticinal  History ;  works 
which  will  be  read  by  posterity,  although  they  offend  men 
of  the  present  generation ;  and  though  carped  at  now,  will 
be  acceptable  then  ;  and  though  detested  now,  will  be  pro- 
fitable in  future  times. 

land,  which  is  all  that  Wendorer  says  about  it,  adds  :  — "  However,  as 
he  thought  fit  to  shut  up  everything  in  his  own  purse,  and  was  un- 
willing  to  pay  his  soldiers  their  wages,  he  lost  the  greatest  part  of  his 
army  in  several  conflicts  with  the  Irish,  and  being  at  last  reduced  to 
want,  after  appointing  lords-justices  and  distributing  his  knights  in 
various  places  for  the  defence  of  the  country,  he  returned  to  England." 
'  Giraldus  refers  to  his  former  visit  to  Ireland,  in  company  with  his 
brother  PhiUp.  He  now  came  over  as  secretary  to  the  young  prince, 
and  probably  was  selected  by  the  sagacity  of  the  king  for  his  pohtical 
adviser,  for  we  find  no  other  man  of  talent  and  experience  about  the  per» 
•on  of  the  young  prince. 


F1T2-STEPHEK   AND   STEONGBOW,  311 

CHAPTEE  XXXII. 

THE    COMMENDATION  OF   FITZ-STEPHEN  AND   EAEL    STRONG- 
BOW;   AND    THEIE    DEFENCE. 

Robert  Fitz-Stephen  first  showed  and  led  the  way  to  the 
earl,  the  earl  to  the  king,  and  the  king  to  his  son  John.  Much 
praise  is  due  to  him,  who  by  his  bold  enterprise  made  the 
beginning ;  much  to  him  who,  as  the  connecting  link,  carried 
forward  the  undertaking  so  auspiciously  commenced  ;  most 
of  all  is  due  to  those  who  lent  their  authority  to  complete 
the  whole  project.  I  may  remark  here,  that  both  Fitz-Ste- 
phen  and  the  earl,  having  restored  Dermitius  to  his  territories, 
which  they  were  justified  in  doing,  acquired  rights  under 
him,  the  one  by  fealty,  the  other  by  marrying  his  daughter, 
which,  as  far  as  Leinster  was  concerned,  precludes  their 
being  considered  as  spoliators  or  robbers.  But  as  to  Water- 
ford,  and  parts  of  Desmond  and  Meath,  into  which  the  earl 
intruded,  I  do  not  excuse  him  in  that  matter.  The  earl, 
however,  yielded  up  the  dominion  of  the  fifth  part  of  the 
island,  which  he  had  in  right  of  his  wife,  to  the  king  of 
England,  and  did  fealty  to  him  for  it.  The  princes  of  the 
rest  of  Ireland,  making  voluntary  submission  without  delay, 
did  homage  to  the  king,  and  indisputably  confirmed  his 
right.  Wherefore,  omitting  at  present  the  other  grounds, 
both  new  and  old,  which  have  been  stated  in  a  former  chap- 
ter, it  is  plain,  even  from  those  just  mentioned,  that  the 
English  nation  and  king  did  not  enter  upon  this  island  so 
unjustly,  from  lack  of  title,  as  some  unlearned  persons 
dream, 

CHAPTEE  XXXIIL 

OF  THE  DELAY  AND  IMPEDIMENTS  TO  THE  FULL  AND 
COMPLETE  CONQUEST  OF  IRELAND. 

Fortunate  would  this  island  have  been,  and  it  would  long 
since  have  been  firmly  and  completely  subjugated  from  one 
end  to  the  other,  and  brought  without  difficulty  under  order 
and  good  government,  with  towns  and  castles  built  on  all 
sides,  in  fitting  places  from  sea  to  sea,  had  not  the  succours 
which  should  have  followed  the  first  adventurers  been  cut 
off  by  a  royal  proclamation  ;^  or,  rather,  if  the  king  himself 
'  See  B,  i.  c.  19 


812  THE    CCWQITEST    OF   IBELAlTD. 

had  not  been  prematurely  recalled  from  his  bold  adventtire 
by  an  intestine  conspiracy  which  prevented  his  turning  his 
enterprise  to  good  account.  Happy  indeed  would  it  have, 
been  if,  the  first  conquerors  being  men  of  worth  and  valour, 
their  merits  had  been  duly  weighed,  and  the  government 
and  administration  of  affairs  had  been  placed  in  their  hands. 
For  the  Irish  people,  who  were  so  astounded  and  thrown 
into  such  consternation  at  the  arrival  of  the  first  adven- 
turers,' by  the  novelty  of  the  thing,  and  so  terrified  by 
flights  of  arrows  shot  by  the  English  archers,  and  the  might 
of  the  men-at-arms,  soon  took  heart,  through  delays,  which 
are  always  dangerous,  the  slow  and  feeble  progress  of  the 
work  of  conquest,  and  the  ignorance  and  cowardice  of  the 
governors  and  others  in  command.  And  becoming  gradually 
expert  in  the  use  of  arrows  and  other  weapons,  as  well  as 
being  practised  in  stratagems  and  ambuscades  by  their 
frequent  conflicts  with  our  troops,  and  taught  by  their 
successes,  although  they  might  at  first  have  been  easily 
subjugated,  they  became  in  process  of  time  able  to  make  a 
stout  resistance. 

'Read  the  Books  of  Kings,  read  the  Prophets,  examine 
the  whole  series  of  the  Old  Testament,  and  even  consider 
familiar  examples  furnished  by  our  own  times  and  our  own 
country,  and  you  will  find  that  no  nation  was  ever  con- 
quered" which  did  not  bring  down  punishment  on  them- 
selves for  their  sins  and  wickedness.      But  although  the 

*  It  is  surprising  -with  how  small  a  number  of  troops  the  capture  of 
several  important  places,  the  reduction  of  at  least  all  Leinster,  and  the 
general  submission  of  the  native  princes,  was  eifected.  Giraldus  has 
stated  very  exactly  the  numbers  embarked  in  the  several  expeditions ; 
and  on  countmg  them  up  we  find  that  the  Fitzgeralds  and  other  adven- 
turers from  "Walea  took  over  at  different  times  1030  men,  in  the  propor- 
tions of  80  men-at-arms,  180  other  horsemen,  and  770  archers  and  foot 
soldiers,  all  levied  amongst  their  own  kinsmren  and  retainers.  EarJ 
Strongbow's  expedition  mustered  1200  men,  of  whom  200  were  men- 
at-arms.  Giraldus  states  the  number  of  men-at-arms  who  went  over 
with  king  Henry  to  have  been  500,  but  he  does  not  furnish  any  account 
of  the  rest  of  his  forces.  This  is,  however,  immaterial  to  our  present 
purpose ;  as,  though  the  presence  of  a  numerous  royal  army  may  have 
awed  the  native  princes  into  a  more  perfect  submission,  all  the  fighting 
seems  to  have  been  done  before  ;  the  heart  of  the  people  was  broken,  the 
country  had  been  traversed  from  east  to  west,  and  all  the  strong  places 
had  been  reduced,  and  that  with  a  force  little  exceeding  2000  men. 


BEIEF  RECAPITULATION  OF  EYENTS.         313 

Irish  people  did  well  deserve,  for  their  grievous  oiFences 
and  filthy  lives,  to  be  brought  into  trouble  by  the  incursions 
of  strangers,  they  had  not  so  utterly  offended  God  that  it 
was  his  will  they  should  be  entirely  subjugated  ;  nor  were 
the  deserts  of  the  English  such  as  to  entitle  them  to  the 
full  sovereignty  over,  and  the  peaceable  obedience  of,  the 
people  they  had  partly  conquered  and  reduced  to  submis- 
sion. Therefore,  perhaps,  it  was  the  will  of  Grod  that  both 
nations  should  be  long  engaged  in  mutual  conflicts,  neither 
of  them  having  merited  or  altogether  forfeited  his  favour, 
so  that  the  one  did  not  gain  the  prize  of  triumphant  suc- 
cess, nor  was  the  other  so  vanquished  as  to  submit  their 
necks  generally  to  the  yoke  of  servitude. 

The  Irish  may  be  said  to  have  four  prophets,  Molingus, 
Braccanus,  Patrick,  and  Columkill,  whose  books,  written  in 
Irish,  are  still  extant ;  and  all  these,  speaking  of  this  con- 
quest, agree  in  affirming  that  it  will  be  attended  with  fre- 
quent conflicts,  with  long  wars  continued  for  several  genera- 
tions, and  much  shedding  of  blood.  Indeed  they  scarcely 
promise  complete  victory  to  the  English,  and  that  the  whole 
island  shall  be  subdued,  and  castles  built  from  sea  to  sea, 
much  before  doomsday.  And  Braccanus  affirms  that,  although 
the  English  in  the  island,  experiencing  the  fortune  of  war, 
shall  often  be  defeated,  and  their  power  weakened,  it  will 
only  happen  when  a  certain  king,  descending  from  the 
desert  mountains  of  Patrick,  shall  on  a  Sunday  night 
storm  a  castle  built  in  the  woody  parts  of  Ophelan,  that 
nearly  all  the  English  shall  be  driven  out  of  Ireland.  These 
prophecies,  however,  declare  that  the  whole  territory  lying 
on  the  east  coast  of  the  island  shaU  for  ever  remain  in  tho 
possession  of  the  English. 

CHAPTEE  XXXiy. 

A  BRIEF  RECAPITULATION  OF  CERTAIN  EYENTS. 

Three  castles  were  built  immediately  after  prince  John's 
first  arrival ;  one  at  Tibrach,  another  at  Archfinan,  and  the 
third  at  Lismore.  Likewise,  three  noble  youths  were  unfor- 
tunately killed ;  Robert  de  Barri  at  Lismore,  Eaymond 
!Fitz-Hugh  at  Olechan,  and  Eaymond  of  Kantitune  at 
Odrone.     Part  of  the  garrison  of  Archfinan  were  set  on 


314  THE  CONQUEST  OF  IRELAND. 

and  routed  by  the  prince  of  Limerick,  in  the  wood  of  Arch- 
finan,  on  St.  John  the  Baptist's  day  (24th  June),  and  four 
men-at-arms  were  slain.  The  garrison  of  Archfinan  were 
again  attacked  when  plundering  towards  Limerick,  and 
nineteen  men  at-arms  slain.  Dermitius  Macarthy,  prince  of 
Desmond,  and  many  others,  fell  by  the  hands  of  the  men  of 
Cork,  and  the  troops  of  Theobald  Fitz  Walter,  in  a  parley 
near  Cork,  The  men  of  Keneleoue  (Kilkenny),  under  their 
prince,  having  made  a  too  daring  irruption  into  the  borders  of 
Meath,  the  men  of  Meath,  under  the  command  of  William  the 
Little  {Gulielmus  Modicus),  put  one  hundred  of  the  invaders 
to  the  sword,  and  sent  their  heads  to  Dublin.  John  de 
Courcy  having  discovered  a  precious  treasure,  the  bodies  of 
three  Saints,  Patrick,  Bridget,  and  Columba,  at  Down,  these 
relics  were  by  his  care  translated.  Hugh  de  Lacy  was 
treacherously  slain  and  decapitated  by  the  axes  of  the  Irish 
under  his  dominion  at  Dernach.  Thirteen  of  John  de  Courcy 's 
noble  men-at-arms  were  slain  as  they  were  returning  with 
him  from  Connaught.  Roger  le  Poer,  a  young  man  of  great 
bravery,  and  much  lamented,  was  killed  at  Ossory,  with 
many  of  his  people ;  whereupon,  a  secret  conspiracy  against 
the  English  was  formed  throughout  Ireland,  many  castles 
were  destroyed,  and  the  whole  island  thrown  into  confusion ; 
occurrences  well  worthy  of  a  separate  notice.  The  dominion 
of  Ireland  having  now  been  transferred  to  the  king's  son,  I 
leave  his  acts  to  be  described  by  those  who  relate  his  history,' 
and  hasten  on  to  close  my  own  work  with  what  is  more 

Erofitable.  I  think  it,  therefore,  not  amiss  that  I  should 
riefly  state  why,  and  from  what  causes,  this  first  enterprise 
of  the  king's  son  did  not  fulfil  his  expectations  ;  the  success 
not  being  equal  to  the  vast  preparations  for  it.  And  this 
sequel  to  my  work,  though  it  cannot  remedy  what  is  past, 
may  yet  supply  some  warnings  for  the  future. 

'  There  appears  to  be  a  touch  of  irony  iu  the  language  by  which  Gi- 
raldus  devolves  on  future  historians  the  task  of  writing  the  annals  of  the 
disgraceful  manner  in  which  John's  inauguration  in  his  new  dominion 
of  Ireland  was  conducted.  He  does  not,  however,  hesitate  in  the  fol- 
lowing chapters,  which  we  think  will  be  considered,  for  the  most  part, 
very  ably  written,  to  indicate  his  opinion  of  the  mal-administration, 
which  he  failed  to  prevent,  and  at  the  same  time  points  out  its  causes, 
mad  suggests  remedies  for  the  evil,  and  rules  for  the  good  government 
of  Ireland. 


COMING    OF   JOHN   TO    lEELAND.  ii\B 

CHAPTEE  XXXV. 

5PHE    CAUSES    OF    THE    DISASTERS.       OF    THE    COMI]NQ    TO 
lEELAND  OF  JOHN,  THE  KING's  SON. 

i  SHOULD  say,  then,  that  the  first  and  principal  cause  of 
these  mischances,  was  the  king's  not  having  listened  to  the 
solemn  call  of  the  patriarch  Heraclius,  before  mentioned, 
and  either  gone  himself,  or  at  least  sent  one  of  his  sons  on 
his  behalf,  with  ready  devotion,  in  obedience  to  the  com- 
mands of  Christ.  But  instead  of  this,  at  the  moment  of 
this  memorable  summons,  and  in  the  very  presence  of  the 
venerable  envoy  charged  with  it,  he  sent  this  son  of  his, 
with  a  retinue  and  outfit  more  sumptuous  than  profitable, 
not  to  the  East,  but  to  the  West ;  not  against  the  Saracens, 
but  against  Christians ;  for  his  own  aggrandisement,  not 
for  the  cause  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Another  cause  was  this  ;  as  soon  as  the  king*s  son  landed 
in  Ireland,  there  met  him  at  "Waterford  a  great  many  of  the 
Irish  of  the  better  class  in  those  parts ;  men  who,  having 
been  hitherto  loyal  to  the  English  and  disposed  to  be  peace- 
able, came  to  congratulate  him  as  their  new  lord,  and 
receive  him  with  the  kiss  of  peace.  But  our  new-comers 
and  Normans  not  only  treated  them  with  contempt  and 
derision,  but  even  rudely  pulled  them  by  their  beards, 
which  the  Irishmen  wore  full  and  long,  according  to  the 
custom  of  their  country.  No  sooner,  however,  had  they 
made  their  escape,  than  they  withdrew  from  the  neighbour- 
hood with  all  their  households,  and,  betaking  themselves  to 
the  king  of  Limerick,  the  prince  of  Cork,  and  Eoderick 
king  of  Connaught,  gave  full  particulars  of  all  that  they 
had  observed  during  their  visit  to  the  king's  son.  They  said 
that  they  found  him   to  be  a  mere  boy,^  surrounded  by 

^  HoHngshed  states  in  his  Chronicles  of  Ireland,  on  what  authority 
we  are  unable  to  discover,  that  John  was  only  twelve  years  old  when  he 
was  sent  over  to  assume  the  government ;  but  it  would  seem  prepos- 
terous that  so  politic  a  prince  as  Henry  II.,  with  all  his  fondness  for  his 
yoimgest  son.  should  have  committed  so  great  a  trust  to  him  at  so 
tender  an  age.  Florence  of  Worcester,  a  very  exact  chronicler,  record» 
John's  birth  in  1166.  We  believe  that  it  was  in  1166,  a  year  memor- 
able for  his  father's  great  victory  at  Tinchibrai.  John  must  therefore 
have  been  nineteen  years  old  when  he  went  to  Ireland.  We  take  thia 
opportunity  of  remarking  that  Giraldus  never  mentions  him  but  M 


316  THE  CONQUEST  OF   lEELANO. 

others  almost  as  young  as  himself;  and  that  the  young 
prince  abandoned  himself  to  juvenile  pursuits ;  and  they 
further  declared,  that  what  they  saw  promised  no  mature"  or 
stable  counsels,  no  security  for  the  peace  of  Ireland. 

On  hearing  this,  the  princes  of  Limerick,  Connaught, 
and  Cork,  who  were  at  that  time  the  main  stay  of  Ireland, 
although  they  were  preparing  to  wait  upon  the  young 
king's  son  and  offer  him  their  homage  and  submission  with 
the  usual  forms,  began  to  consider  among  themselves  to  what 
greater  evils  these  small  beginnings  might  lead,  and  what 
course  would  be  taken  with  the  proud  and  independent, 
when  good  and  peaceable  subjects  were  thus  treated.  They 
then  resolved  unanimously  to  resist  the  English,  and  defend 
with  their  lives  their  ancient  liberties  ;  and  the  better  to 
3arry  this  resolution  into  effect,  a  new  league  was  generally 
entered  into,  and  those  who  were  before  enemies  were  now 
reconciled,  and  became  friends.  We  speak  what  we  know, 
and  testify  what  we  have  seen.  And  forasmuch  as  we  in- 
sulted and  drove  from  us  those  who  came  first  to  pay  their 
respects,  as  Grod  humbles  the  proud,  by  this  example  we 
deterred  all  the  chief  men  of  the  country  from  making  their 
submission.  Por  this  people,  like  other  barbarous  nations, 
although  they  do  not  understand  what  appertains  to  honour, 
covet  above  measure  to  be  honoured  themselves ;  and  al- 
though they  are  not  ashamed  to  be  convicted  of  falsehood, 
they  despise  liars  and  commend  truth  ;  loving  that  in  others 
which  they  do  not  blush  at  wanting  themselves.  What 
great  evils  may  arise  from  insolent  behaviour,  a  prudent 
man  may  learn  from  the  example  of  Rehoboam,  Solomon's 
son,  and  by  the  calamities  which  have  happened  to  another, 
will  avoid  them  in  his  own  case.  For  he,  being  led  away 
by  the  young  men's  counsels,  said  to  his  people :  "  My 
little  finger  shall  be  thicker  than  my  father's  loins,  and  if  he 
chastened  you  with  whips,  I  will  scourge  you  with  scor- 
pions." Wherefore  the  ten  tribes  forsook  him,  and  adhered 
to  Jeroboam,  and  a  schism  was  made  among  the  people,  and 
he  ^ost  them  for  ever.^ 

Another  cause  is  this :  We  took  away  their  lands  from 

"John  the  king's  son."  Florence,  in  noting  his  birth,  calls  him  John 
Sans-terre,  or  Lack-land ;  and  he  had  the  title  of  earl  of  Mortaigne, 
by  which  other  chroniclers  usually  designate  him.      '  2  Kings,  12 — 14^ 


MISTAKEN    TEEATMENT    OF    THE    lETSH.  317 

our  own  Irishmen,  who  had  faithfully  stood  by  us  from  the 
first  coming  over  of  Fitz-Stephen  and  the  earl,  aud  have 
given  them  to  our  new-comers.  These  Irish,  therefore,  be- 
taking themselves  to  our  enemies,  became  spies  upon  us, 
and  guides  to  shew  them  the  way  to  us,  having  the  more 
power  to  do  us  injury  from  their  former  familiarity  with  us. 
Besides,  the  care  and  custody  of  all  the  towns  and  castles 
on  the  sea-coast,  with  the  lands,  revenues,  and  tributes  ap- 
pertaining to  them,  which  ought  to  have  been  administered 
for  the  public  good  and  for  defence  against  the  enemy,  were 
assigned  to  persons  who  thought  only  of  hunting-out  money ; 
and,  keeping  themselves  carefully  within  the  town  walls, 
they  spent  their  time  and  all  that  they  had  in  drunkenness 
and  surfeiting,  to  the  loss  and  damage  of  the  good  citizens, 
instead  of  the  annoyance  of  the  enemy. 

Among  many  other  misfortunes,  this  may  be  added  :  that 
at  the  very  first  entry  of  the  king's  son  on  this  hostile  land, 
among  a  warlike,  rebellious,  and  savage  people,  as  yet  impa- ., 
tient  of  submission,  men  were  appointed  to  command  the 
troops, .  who  had  more  of  Mercury  than  of  Mars  about 
them,  who  liked  their  gowns  better  than  their  armour,  and 
were  more  intent  on  pillaging  the  good  subjects  than  attack- 
ing the  enemy ;  such  men,  I  mean,  and  marchers  as  Fitz- 
Aldelm,  and  the  like,  under  whose  rule  both  "Wales  and  Ire- 
land were  well-nigh  ruined  and  lost.  Such  men  are  neither 
confided  in  by  their  subjects,  nor  feared  by  the  enemy  ;  and 
know  nothing  of  that  principle  which  is  innate  in  a  noble 
spirit,  ''To  spare  the  humbled,  subjugate  the  proud."  They 
rather  act  the  contrary  way,  and  leaving  the  enemy  unin- 
'^ured,  are  always  plundering  the  vanquished.  Hence  it 
8omes  to  pass  that  nothing  has  been  done  to  strengthen  our 
position  in  the  island  ;  there  are  no  inroads  into  the  enemy's 
country,  no  great  number  of  fortresses  erected,  no  felling  of 
trees,  and  clearing  and  widening  the  roads  through  the 
woods,  commonly  called  "  bad  passes,"  for  the  greater  ease 
and  security  of  convoys.  The  soldiers  and  serving-men  in 
the  garrisons  also,  imitating  their  captains  and  masters,  lead 
the  same  sort  of  life  as  their  betters,  spending  their  whole 
time  in  drinking  and  wantonness,  and  taking  good  care  not 
to  leave  the  towns  on  the  coast ;  so  that  the  interior  parts 
of  the  country,  on  the  borders  of  the  enemy,  called  the 


818  THE    CONQUEST    OF    IEELA.ND. 

marches,  were  left  undefended ;  and  such  as  there  were 
amongst  them,  having  no  support,  were  plundered  and 
burnt,  and  the  garrisons  put  to  the  sword. 

Meanwhile,  the  new-comers  growing  daily  more  insolent, 
the  old  tried  and  veteran  soldiers  were  out  of  favour  and 
kept  themselves  close,  waiting  patiently  what  would  be  the 
end  of  all  this  rioting  and  disturbance.  In  the  meantime 
this  was  the  state  of  the  island ;  all  the  roads  were  imprac- 
ticable, all  communications  cut  off;  no  security  anywhere 
from  the  broad  axes  of  the  Irish  ;  new  reports  daily  of  fresh 
losses  by  the  English.  Such  was  the  condition  of  the  coun- 
try outside  the  towns.  Within  the  walls,  there  was  some 
semblance  of  order  and  tranquillity  ;  and  with  plenty  of  wine 
and  money,  delinquencies  in  all  quarters  were  easily  atoned. 
Besides,  when  the  storm  was  gathering  in  the  enemy's 
quarters,  it  was  time  for  the  troops  to  look  to  their  arms, 
instead  of  being  immersed  in  civil  affairs.  But  instead  of 
this,  there  was  so  much  vexatious  litigation,  that  the  veteran 
soldiers  were  more  harassed  by  their  adversaries  within, 
than  by  the  enemy  without  the  walls.  "While,  therefore, 
our  forces  were  enfeebled,  the  enemy  became  more  daring 
in  their  resistance.  Thus  was  the  land  misgoverned,  and 
affairs  ill  administered,  until  the  king,  discarding  the  new- 
comers, as  totally  incapable,  if  not  cowardly,  and  resolving 
to  employ  men  who  from  the  first  had  acquired  experience 
in  the  conquest  of  the  island,  sent  over  John  de  Courcy  to 
take  the  supreme  command.  Under  his  rule  the  kingdom 
speedily  began  to  enjoy  more  tranquillity,  the  effect  of  his 
superiority  to  those  who  were  superseded  both  in  courage 
and  vigour.  He  soon  led  an  expedition  into  the  furthest 
parts  of  the  island,  namely,  Cork  and  Connaught,  and  not 
suffering  his  troops  to  lie  idle,  was  always  trying  the  chances 
of  war,  uncertain  as  they  are,  frequently  sustaining  defeats, 
and  often  inflicting  losses  on  the  enemy.  Would  that  he 
had  been  as  skilful  a  general  as  he  was  a  brave  soldier,  and 
bad  exercised  as  much  discretion  in  commanding  as  he  ex- 
hibited daring  in  the  field. 

I  must  add  to  my  account  of  the  mischiefs  done  by  the 
new  government,  one  that  is  the  greatest  of  all.  Not  only 
do  we  neglect  to  make  any  offering  to  the  church  of  Christ, 
not  only  are  the  honours  and  thanks  due  to  Q-od  unacknow* 


MISGOVERNMENT  UNDEE  PKINCE  JOHN.       319 

ledged  by  any  gift  of  the  prince  and  his  followers,  but  we 
even  rob  the  church  of  its  lands  and  possessions,  and  strive 
to  abridge  or  annul  its  ancient  rights  and  privileges.  When 
I  come  to  reflect  on  all  that  has  happened  to  us,  and  espe- 
cially on  this  dispute,  done  to  our  Lord  himself,  I  am 
filled  with  the  greatest  anxiety,  and  painful  thoughts  fre- 
quently arise  in  my  mind.  Perhaps  it  was  in  consequence 
of  these  meditations  that  one  night  I  had  a  vision  in  my 
sleep,  which  on  the  morrow  I  related  to  the  venerable  John, 
archbishop  of  Dublin,  and  it  filled  us  both  with  wonder. 
Methought  I  beheld  in  my  vision  John,  the  king's  son,  in 
a  certain  green  meadow,  apparently  laying  the  foundations 
of  a  church.  And  when  he  had  marked  out  the  ground  on 
each  side,  and  drawn  lines  on  the  face  of  the  turf,  as  sur- 
veyors do,  upon  going  round  the  spot  with  the  model  or 
plan  of  the  work,  to  ascertain  its  dimensions  by  precise  ad- 
measurement, he  discovered  that  the  body  of  the  church 
was  sufficiently  large,  while  the  chancel  appeared  to  be  ex- 
tremely confined  and  out  of  proportion,  as  if  the  nave  were 
large  enough  to  contain  the  laity,  while  the  least  possible 
space  sufficed  for  the  clergy.  Methought  I  then  contended 
earnestly,  though  in  vain,  that  some  additions  should  be 
made  to  the  plan,  so  that  the  size  of  the  building  might  be 
increased,  and  it  might  have  a  better  shape  ;  but  I  was  so 
excited  by  my  zeal  for  these  improvements  that  I  awoke 
from  my  dream. 

The  many  outrages  and  disorders  which  have  been  the 
fruits  of  the  new  government  of  Ireland,  are  not  to  be  im- 
puted so  much  to  the  tender  years  of  the  king's  son,  as  to 
evil  counsels,  although  both  had  a  large  share  in  them  ;  for 
the  land,  as  yet  rude  and  barbarous,  required  men  of  expe- 
rience, whose  minds  were  matured,  to  reduce  it  to  order. 
Any  nation,  however  excellent  its  condition  may  have  been, 
is  cursed  when  it  is  governed  by  a  boy  king.  How  much 
more  must  it  be  the  case,  when  a  country  which  is  rude  and 
uncivilized,  is  committed  to  the  charge  of  one  who  is  inex- 
perienced and  ill-informed.  But  that  these  great  disorders 
were  more  to  be  attributed  to  the  advice  of  evil  counsellors, 
was  even  whispered  among  the  younger  sort,  and  taken  for 
certain  by  older  and  more  discreet  persons.  For  some  who 
had  procured  large  grants,  as  the  first  of  the  richest  and 


320  THE  CONQUEST  OF  IRELAND. 

most  fertile  lands  in  Ireland,  either  improvidentlj  given 
them  as  lords  of  the  fee,  or  for  the  most  part  in  their  actual 
possession,  and  who,  perhaps,  sometimes  aspired  to  the  sole 
government  of  the  kingdom  by  means  of  the  royal  con- 
quests and  their  own  immense  acquisitions  of  territory,  when 
things  did  not  turn  out  according  to  their  expectations,  seem 
to  have  easily  found  means  of  eluding  the  fealty  due  to 
the  father,  and  their  faith  and  oaths  pledged  to  his  son. 

How  men  of  three  different  sorts  were  in  the  sei-vice  of  John. 
Our  people  consisted  of  men  of  three  different  sorts ;  Nor- 
mans, English,  and  my  own  countrymen,^  whom  we  found 
in  Ireland.  "With  the  first  we  were  most  intimate,  and  we 
esteemed  them  best ;  the  second  had  less  regard,  and  the 
third  none  at  all.  The  Normans  could  not  do  without 
wine,  having  been  used  to  plenty  of  it  from  their  youth, 
and  so  nothing  could  induce  them  to  remain  long  in  the 
marches,  and  in  remote  castles  built  at  a  distance  from  the 
sea-coast.  Their  chief  care  was  to  be  about  the  person  of 
the  king's  son,  and  to  be  near  the  supplies,  and  far  enough 
from  any  scarcity.  They  were  talkers,  boasters,  enormous 
swearers,  and  held  all  others  in  supreme  contempt.  Ever 
on  the  look-out  for  pay  and  grants  of  land,  and  the  fore- 
most to  get  advancement  and  honours,  they  were  the  last  to 
earn  them  by  their  services.  As,  therefore,  the  veteran  sol- 
diers by  whose  enterprise  the  way  into  the  island  was  opened 
to  us,  were  treated  with  suspicion  and  neglect,  and  our 
counsels  were  only  communicated  to  the  new-comers,  who 
only  were  trusted  and  thought  worthy  of  honour,  it  came 
to  pass  that  as  the  veterans  kept  aloof,  and  rendered  no  as- 
sistance to  those  who  did  not  ask  for  it,  the  others  had  little 
success  in  all  their  undertakings. 

CHAPTEE  XXXVI. 

IN    WHAT    MAJ^NER     IRELAKI)     IS     TO     BE     COMPLETELY 
CONQUERED. 

It  is  an  old  saying,  that  every  man  is  most  to  be  believed  in 
respect  of  his  own  art ;  and  so,  as  regards  this  expedition, 
'  Normanni,  Angli,  nostri.  It  may  be  supposed  that  Giraldiia 
means  by  the  last  designation  the  Welslimen^  who  were  tlie  first  to  ad- 
venture on  the  conquest  of  Ii-eland,  and  still  remained  there. 


TS  WHAi  MA-TiriirEa  ieeland  is  to  be  coitqueeed.    321 

feheir  judgment  maj  be  best  relied  on,  who  have  been 
longest  conversant  with  the  similar  state  of  affairs  in  the 
country,  and  are  most  acquainted  with  the  manners  and 
customs  of  the  people.  And  it  much  concerns  them  that 
this  hostile  race,  whose  implacable  enmity  they  have  drawn 
on  themselves  in  the  course  of  the  continual  conflicts  of  a 
long  war,  should  by  their  aid  either  have  their  power  reduced, 
or  be  altogether  discomfited.  I  may  also  say  of  those  parts 
of  Wales  which  are  inhabited  by  the  English,  that  it  would 
be  happy  for  them  if  the  king  had  long  ago  adopted  a  simi- 
lar policy  in  dealing  with  the  government,  and  protecting 
the  country  from  the  inroads  of  the  native  and  hostile  race. 
The  Normans,  who  are  newly  come  among  us,  may  be  very 
good  soldiers  in  their  own  country,  and  expert  in  the  use 
of  arms  and  armour  after  the  French  fashion,  but  every  one 
knows  how  much  that  differs  from  the  mode  of  warfare  in 
Ireland  and  Wales.  In  France  it  is  carried  on  in  a  cham- 
paign country,  here  it  is  rough  and  mountainous  ;  there  you 
have  open  plains,  here  you  find  dense  woods.  In  France  it 
is  counted  an  honour  to  wear  armour,  here  it  is  found  to  be 
cumbersome  ;  there  victories  are  won  by  serried  ranks  and 
close  fighting,  here  by  the  charges  of  light-armed  troops  ; 
there,  quarter  is  given,  prisoners  being  taken  and  admitted 
to  ransom,  here  their  heads  are  chopped  off  as  trophies,  and 
no  one  escapes.  AVhere  armies  engage  in  a  plain  country, 
that  heavy  and  complex  armour,  whether  shirts  of  mail,  or 
coat  armour  of  steel,  is  both  a  splendid  ornament  of  the 
knights  and  men-at-arms,  and  also  necessary  for  their  pro- 
tection. But  where  you  have  to  fight  in  narrow  passes,  and 
m  woods  and  bogs,  in  which  foot-soldiers  are  more  service- 
able than  horsemen,  a  far  lighter  kind  of  armour  is  prefer- 
able. In  fighting  against  naked  and  unarmed  men,  whose 
only  hope  of  success  lies  in  the  impetuosity  of  their  first 
attack,  men  in  light  armour  can  pursue  the  fugitives,  an 
agile  race,  with  more  activity,  and  cut  them  down  in  narrow 
passes  and  amongst  crags  and  mountains.  The  Normans, 
with  this  complex  armour  and  their  deeply  curved  saddles, 
find  great  difficulty  in  getting  on  horseback  and  dismounting; 
and  still  greater  when  occasion  requires  that  they  shall 
march  on  foot. 

In   all  expeditions,  therefore,   either  in  Ireland   or  in 

Y 


322  THE  CONQUEST  OF  lEELAND. 

"Wales,  the  Welshmen  bred  in  the  marches,  and  accustomed 
to  the  continual  wars  in  those  parts,  make  the  best  troops. 
They  are  very  brave,  and,  from  their  previous  habits,  bold 
and  active  ;  thev  are  good  horsemen  and  also  light  of  foot, 
being  equally  suited  to  both  services  ;  and  they  are  not  nice 
in  their  appetites,  and  bear  hunger  and  thirst  weD  when  pro- 
visions are  not  to  be  had.  Such  men  and  soldiers  were  they 
which  took  the  lead  in  the  conquest  of  Ireland,  and  by  such 
men  it  must  be  finally  and  completely  effected.  Let  each 
class  of  soldiers  have  its  proper  place.  Against  heavy-armed 
troops,  depending  upon  their  strength  and  complete  armour, 
and  fighting  on  a  plain,  you  must  oppose,  I  admit,  men 
equal  to  them  in  the  weight  of  their  armour  and  strength  of 
limb  ;  but  when  you  have  to  do  with  a  race  who  are  natu- 
rally agile  and  light  of  foot,  and  whose  hauuts  are  in  steep 
and  rocky  places,  you  want  light-armed  troops,  and  espe- 
cially such  as  have  been  trained  by  experience  to  fighting 
imder  such  circumstances.  And,  in  the  Irish  wars,  parti- 
cular care  should  be  always  used  to  mix  bowmen  with  the 
other  troops,  in  order  to  gaU,  by  flights  of  arrows  shot  from 
a  distance,  the  slingers  who  rush  forward  and  heave  stones 
on  the  heavy  armed  troops,  and  then  retire  with  great 
agility,  thus  alternately  advancing  and  retreating. 

Moreover,  the  part  of  the  country  on  this  side,  as  far  as  the 
river  Shannon,  which  forms  the  boundary  between  the  three 
eastern  parts  of  the  island  and  the  fourth  or  western  part, 
should  be  protected  by  strongly  fortified  castles  built  in  differ- 
ent places.  And  further,  in  the  meantime,  let  all  the  country 
beyond  the  Shannon,  including  Connaught  and  part  of  Mun- 
ster,  be  subjected  to  annual  tributes  [from  the  native 
princes],  except  the  city  of  Limerick,  which  should  by  all 
means  be  recovered  and  occupied  by  the  English.  For  it 
would  be  better,  far  better,  to  begin  with  building  fortresses 
on  suitable  situations,  proceeding  by  degrees  to  construct 
them,  than  to  erect  a  great  number  at  once,  in  a  variety  of 
places,  at  great  distance  from  each  other,  where  they  would 
be  entirely  disconnected,  and  could  afford  no  mutual  aid  in 
time  of  n^ed. 


GOTERNMENT  OF  lEELAKD.  323 

CHAPTER  XXXYII. 

HOW  IRELAND  OUGHT  TO  BE  GOVEENED. 

As  tliis  people  are  easily  moved  to  rebel,  and  are  as  ligbt- 
minded  as  they  are  light  of  foot,  when  they  have  been  sub- 
jugated and  reduced  to  submission,  they  will  have  to  be 
ruled  with  great  discretion.  The  government  should  be 
entrusted  to  men  of  firm  and  equitable  minds,  who  in  times 
of  peace,  when  the  people  obey  the  laws  and  are  content  to 
be  loyal  subjects,  will  win  their  hearts  by  keeping  good 
faith,  and  treating  them  with  respect ;  but  if,  through  their 
natural  levity,  they  presume  to  break  into  revolt,  the  go- 
vernor should  then  divest  himself  of  all  gentleness,  and  in- 
stantly bring  the  offenders  to  condign  punishment.  Peace 
being  again  restored,  and  due  satisfaction  made  for  their 
misdeeds,  as  it  is  a  bad  thing  to  keep  in  memory  wrongs 
that  are  passed,  as  long  as  they  behave  well  their  miscon- 
duct should  be  buried  in  oblivion,  and  they  enjoy  the  same 
security,  and  be  treated  with  the  same  consideration,  as  be- 
fore. Thus,  obedience  to  the  laws,  and  the  beneficial  pur- 
suits of  peace,  would  meet  with  reward,  while  the  certainty 
of  punishment  would  deter  the  rebellious  from  rash 
attempts  at  insurrection. 

But  governors  who  throw  all  things  into  confusion  by 
being  slow  to  punish  the  rebellious,  while  they  oppress  the 
humble,  by  fawning  on  insurgents  while  they  plunder  peace- 
able subjects,  robbing  the  weak  and  truckling  to  the  refrac- 
tory, as  we  have  seen  many  do  ;  such  governors  in  the  end 
bring  disgrace  on  themselves.  Besides,  as  evils  foreseen 
are  less  hurtful,  a  prudent  governor  will  take  measures  in 
time  of  peace,  by  erecting  fortresses  and  opening  roads 
through  the  woods,  to  be  in  constant  preparation  to  meet 
the  dangers  of  war.  For  this  people  are  always  plotting 
hostilities  under  colour  of  peace.  And  as  it  is  wise  to  take 
warning  from  the  mishaps  of  others,  and  avoid  their  errors, 
and  the  blow  falls  less  heavily  when  it  is  anticipated  from 
past  experience,  the  examples  of  such  men  as  Milo  de  Cogan, 
Ealph  Pitz-Stephen,  that  gallant  youth,  Hugh  de  Lacy, 
and  I  may  add  Roger  Poer,  may  teach  that  there  is  never 
any  security  from  the  weapons  of  the  Irish.  For,  as  I  have 
said  in  my  Topography,  the  craft  of  this  people  is  more  to 

t2 


324  THE    C02fQTrEST   OP   lEELAJFl». 

be  feared  tlian  their  prowess  in  arms,  their  show  of  peace 
than  their  fire-brands,  their  honey  than  their  gall,  their 
secret  malice  than  their  open  warfare,  their  treachery  than 
their  attacks,  their  false  friendship  than  their  contemptible 
hostility. 

As  Evodius  says,  "  Past  ruin  gives  a  lesson  to  future 
generations,  and  former  mishaps  are  a  caution  ever  after- 
wards ;"  and  as  in  such  matters  over-caution  can  do  no  harm, 
and  the  utmost  precaution  is  scarcely  enough,  this  people, 
when  finally  subjected,  should,  by  a  public  proclamation, 
like  the  Sicilians,  be  entirely  prohibited  from  carrying  arms 
under  the  severest  penalties.  In  the  meantime,  they  ought 
not  be  allowed  in  time  of  peace,  on  any  pretence  or  in  any 

Flace,  to  use  that  detestable  instrument  of  destruction 
^^the  broad-axe],  which,  by  an  ancient  but  accursed  custom, 
they  constantly  carry  in  their  hands  instead  of  a  staff. 
Finally,  forasmuch  as  the  kings  of  Britain  have  on  many 
grounds  already  set  forth  a  just  title  to  Ireland,  and  the 
people  of  that  island  cannot  subsist  without  the  benefits 
conferred  by  commercial  intercourse,  it  seems  reasonable 
that  it  should  be  subjected  to  some  tribute  to  England, 
either  in  money,  or  in  the  birds  with  which  it  abounds,  in 
order  that  all  occasion  of  dispute  or  opposition  may  be 
obviated  for  the  future.  Thus,  as  time  proceeds  on  its 
course,  and  the  regular  line  of  descent  is  perpetuated  to  the 
farthest  degree,  this  annual  tribute  should  be  retained,  as  a 
lasting  acknowledgment  of  this  conquest,  in  the  place  of  a 
written  instrument,  to  the  British  nation  and  king. 

I  here  bring  my  history  to  a  close,  having  faithfully 
related  what  has  come  under  my  knowledge,  and  testified 
what  I  have  actually  witnessed  ;  and  I  leave  it  to  future 
historians,  of  sufficient  talent,  to  describe  subsequent  events 
in  a  style  fitting  their  importance. 


KZn>  OP  THE  HISTORY   OP   THE   CONQUEST   OP   IHELAITD. 


THE  ITIKERAET 

OP 

ARCHBISHOP  BALDWIN  THEOUGH  WALES, 


FIEST  PEEFACE. 

TO  STEPHEN  LAKGTON,  ARCHBISHOP  OF  CANTERBURY. 

As  the  times  are  affected  bv  the  changes  of  circumstances, 
so  are  the  minds  of  men  influenced  by  different  manner? 
and  customs.     The  satirist  [Persius]  exclaims, 

"  Mille  hominum  species  et  mentis  discolor  usus  ; 
Velle  suum  cuique  est,  nee  vote  vivitur  uno." 

"  Nature  is  ever  various  in  her  name ; 
Each  has  a  different  will,  and  few  the  same." 

The  comic  poet  also  says,  "  Quot  capita  tot  sent  entire,  sttus 
cuique  mos  est."  "  As  many  men,  so  many  minds,  each  has 
his  way."  Young  soldiers  exult  in  war,  and  pleaders  delight 
in  the  gown;  others  aspire  after  riches,  and  think  them 
the  supreme  good.  Some  approve  Galen,  some  Justinian. 
Those  who  are  desirous  of  honours  follow  the  court,  and 
from  their  ambitious  pursuits  meet  with  more  mortification 
than  satisfaction.  Some,  indeed,  but  very  few,  take  pleasure 
in  the  liberal  arts,  amongst  whom  we  cannot  but  admire 
logicians,  who,  when  they  have  made  only  a  trifling  pro- 
gress, are  as  much  enchanted  with  the  images  of  Dialectics, 
as  if  they  were  listening  to  the  songs  of  the  Syrens. 

But  among  so  many  species  of  men,  where  are  to  be 


326  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOUGH   WALIS. 

found  divine  poets  ?  "Where  the  noble  assertors  of  morals  ? 
Where  the  masters  of  the  Latin  tongue  ?  Who  in  the  pre- 
sent times  displays  lettered  eloquence,  either  in  history  or 
poetry  ?  Who,  I  say,  in  our  own  age,  either  builds  a  sys- 
tem of  ethics,  or  consigns  illustrious  actions  to  immortality  ? 
Literary  fame,  which  used  to  be  placed  in  the  highest  rank, 
is  now,  because  of  the  depravity  of  the  times,  tending  to 
ruin  and  degraded  to  the  lowest,  so  that  persons  attached 
to  study  are  at  present  not  only  not  imitated  nor  vuneiated, 
but  even  detested.  "Happy  indeed  would  be  the  arts," 
observes  Eabius,  "  if  artists  alone  judged  of  the  arts ;"  but, 
as  Sydonius  says,  "  it  is  a  fixed  principle  in  the  human 
mind,  that  they  who  are  ignorant  of  the  arts  despise  the 
artist." 

But  to  revert  to  our  subject.  Which,  I  ask,  have  ren- 
dered more  service  to  the  world,  the  arms  of  Marius  or  the 
verses  of  Virgil  ?  The  sword  of  Marius  has  rusted,  while 
the  fame  of  him  who  wrote  the  ^neid  is  immortal ;  and 
although  in  his  time  letters  were  honoured  by  lettered  per- 
sons, yet  from  his  own  pen  we  find, 

" tantum 

Carmina  nostra  ralent  tela  inter  Martia,  quantum 
Chaonias  dicunt,  aquila  veniente,  columbas." 

Who  would  hesitate  in  deciding  which  are  more  profitable, 
the  works  of  St.  Jerom,  or  the  riches  of  Croesus  ?  but 
where  now  shine  the  gold  and  silver  of  Croesus  ?  whilst  the 
world  is  instructed  by  the  example  and  enlightened  by  the 
learning  of  the  poor  coenobite.  Yet  even  he,  through  envy, 
Bufiered  stripes  and  contumely  at  Rome,  although  his  cha- 
racter was  so  illustrious ;  and  at  length  being  driven  beyond 
the  seas,  found  a  refuge  for  his  studies  in  the  solitude  of 
Bethlehem.  Thus  it  appears,  that  gold  and  arms  may  sup- 
port us  in  this  life,  but  avail  nothing  after  death  ;  and  that 
letters  through  envy  profit  nothing  in  this  world,  but,  like  a 
testament,  acquire  an  immortal  value  from  the  seal  of  death. 
According  to  the  poet, 

"  Pascitur  in  viyis  livor,  post  fata  quiescit ; 

Cum  8UU8  ex  merito  quemque  tuetur  honor.'* 

And  also 

"  Denique  si  quis  adhuc  prsetendit  nubUa,  livor 
Occidet,  et  meriti  post  me  referentur  honoree.'* 


PIEST  PEEFACE.  327 

Those  who  by  artifice  endeavour  to  acquire  or  preserve 
the  reputation  of  abilities  or  ingenuity,  while  they  abound  in 
the  words  of  others,  have  little  cause  to  boast  of  their  own 
inventions.  For  the  composers  of  that  pDlished  language, 
in  which  such  various  cases  as  occur  in  the  great  body  of 
law  are  treated  with  such  an  appropriate  elegance  of  style, 
must  ever  stand  forward  in  the  first  ranks  of  praise.  I  should 
indeed  have  said,  that  the  authors  of  refined  language,  not 
the  hearers  only,  the  inventors,  not  the  reciters,  are  most 
worthy  of  commendation.  Tou  will  find,  however,  that  the 
practices  of  the  court  and  of  the  schools  are  extremely 
similar ;  as  well  in  the  subtleties  they  employ  to  lead  you 
forward,  as  in  the  steadiness  with  which  they  generally 
maintain  their  own  positions.  Yet  it  is  certain  that  the 
knowledge  of  logic  (the  acumen,  if  I  may  so  express  it, 
of  all  other  sciences  as  well  as  arts)  is  very  useful,  when 
restricted  within  proper  bounds  ;  whilst  the  court  {i.  e. 
courtly  language),  excepting  to  sycophants  or  ambitious 
men,  is  by  no  means  necessary.  Eor  if  you  are  successful 
at  court,  ambition  never  wholly  quits  its  hold  till  satiated, 
and  allures  and  draws  you  still  closer ;  but  if  your  labour 
is  thrown  away,  you  stiU  continue  the  pursuit,  and,  together 
with  your  substance,  lose  your  time,  the  greatest  and  most 
irretrievable  of  all  losses.  There  is  likewise  some  resem- 
blance between  the  court  and  the  game  of  dice,  as  the  poet 
observes : — 

**  Sic  ne  perdider.it  non  cessat  perdere  lusor, 
Dum  revocat  cupidaa  alea  blanda  manus ;" 

which,  by  substituting  the  word  curia  for  alea,  may  be  ap- 
plied to  the  court.  This  further  proof  of  their  resemblance 
may  be  added ;  that  as  the  chances  of  the  dice  and  court 
are  not  productive  of  any  real  delight,  so  they  are  equally 
distributed  to  the  worthy  and  the  unworthy. 

Since,  therefore,  among  so  many  species  of  men,  each 
follows  his  own  inclination,  and  each  is  actuated  by  different 
desires,  a  regard  for  posterity  has  induced  me  to  choose  the 
study  of  composition ;  and,  as  this  life  is  temporary  and 
mutable,  it  is  grateful  to  live  in  the  memory  of  future  ages, 
and  to  be  immortalized  by  fame  ;  for  to  toil  after  that  which 
produces  envy  in  life,  but  glory  after  death,  is  a  sure  indi- 


828  THE    ITINEEAET    THEOTJGH   -WALES, 

cation  of  an  elevated  mind.  Poets  and  authors  indeed 
aspire  after  immortality,  but  do  not  reject  any  present  ad- 
Tantages  that  may  offer. 

I  formerly  completed  with  vain  and  fruitless  labour  the  To- 
pography of  Ireland  for  king  Henry  the  Second,  and  its  com- 
panion, the  Vaticinal  History,  for  Richard  of  Poitou,  his 
son,  and,  I  wish  I  were  not  compelled  to  add,  his  successor 
in  vice  ;  princes  little  skilled  in  letters,  and  much  engaged 
m  business.  To  you,  illustrious  Stephen,  archbishop  oi 
Canterbury,  equally  commendable  for  your  learning  and  re- 
ligion, I  now  dedicate  the  account  of  our  meritorious  jour- 
ney through  the  rugged  provinces  of  Cambria,  written  in  a 
scholastic  style,  and  divided  into  two  parts.  For  as  virtue 
loves  itself,  and  detests  what  is  contrary  to  it,  so  I  hope  you 
will  consider  whatever  I  may  have  written  in  commendation 
of  your  late  venerable  and  eminent  predecessor,  with  no 
less  affection  than  if  it  related  to  yourself.  To  you  also, 
when  completed,  I  destine  my  treatise  on  the  Instruction  of 
a  Prince,  if,  amidst  your  religious  and  worldly  occupations, 
you  can  find  leisure  for  the  perusal  of  it.  Por  I  purpose 
to  submit  these  and  other  fruits  of  my  diligence  to  be  tasted 
by  you  at  your  discretion,  each  in  its  proper  order ;  hoping 
that,  if  my  larger  undertakings  do  not  excite  your  interest, 
my  smaller  works  may  at  least  merit  your  approbation,  con- 
ciliate your  favour,  and  call  forth  my  gratitude  towards  you  ; 
who,  unmindful  of  worldly  affections,  do  not  partially  dis- 
tribute your  bounties  to  your  family  and  friends,  but  to  let- 
ters and  merit ;  you,  who,  in  the  midst  of  such  great  and 
unceasing  contests  between  the  crown  and  the  priesthood, 
stand  forth  almost  singly  the  firm  and  faithful  friend  of  the 
British  church  ;  you,  who,  almost  the  only  one  duly  elected, 
fulfil  the  scriptural  designation  of  the  episcopal  character. 
It  is  not,  however,  by  bearing  a  cap,  by  placing  a  cushion, 
by  shielding  off  the  rain,  or  by  wiping  the  dust,^  even  if 

*  Giraldus,  whose  knowledge  of  all  the  classical  authors  I  (Sir  K.  C. 
Hoare)  have  elsewhere  had  occasion  to  mention,  has  evidently  adopted 
this  expression  from  Ovid,  who,  in  his  Ars  Amandi,  says, 

«• in  gremium  pulvis  si  forte  puell» 

Deciderit,  digitis  excutiendus  erit. 

Et,  si  Mdlus  erit  pulvis^  tamen  excute  nuUum.** 


SECOND   PEEFACE.  329 

there  should  be  none,  in  tlie  midst  of  a  herd  of  flatterers, 
that  I  attempt  to  conciliate  your  favour,  but  by  my  writ- 
ings. To  you,  therefore,  rare,  noble,  and  illustrious  man, 
on  whom  nature  and  art  have  showered  down  whatever  be- 
comes your  supereminent  situation,  I  dedicate  my  works  ; 
but  if  I  fail  in  this  mode  of  conciliating  your  favour,  and 
if  your  prayers  and  avocations  should  not  allow  you  suffi- 
cient time  to  read  them,  I  shall  consider  the  honour  of  let- 
ters as  vanished,  and  in  hope  of  its  revival  I  shall  inscribe 
my  writings  to  posterity. 


SECOND   PEEFACE. 

TO  THE  SAME  PRELATE. 

Since  those  things,  which  are  known  to  have  been  done 
through  a  laudable  devotion,  are  not  unworthily  extolled 
with  due  praises  ;  and  since  the  mind,  when  relaxed,  loses 
its  energy,  and  the  torpor  of  sloth  enervates  the  understand- 
ing, as  iron  acquires  rust  for  want  of  use,  and  stagnant 
waters  become  foul ;  lest  my  pen  should  be  injured  by  the 
rust  of  idleness,  I  have  thought  good  to  commit  to  writing 
the  devout  visitation  which  Baldwin,  archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury, made  throughout  Wales ;  and  to  hand  down,  as  it 
were  in  a  mirror,  through  you,  O  illustrious  Stephen,  to 
posterity,  the  difficult  places  through  which  we  passed,  the 
names  of  springs  and  torrents,  the  witty  sayings,  the  toils 
and  incidents  of  the  journey,  the  memorable  events  of  an- 
cient and  modern  times,  and  the  natural  history  and  de- 
scription of  the  country;  lest  my  study  should  perish 
through  idleness,  or  the  praise  of  these  things  be  lost  bj 
silence. 


CONTENTS  OF  THE  CHAPTERS. 


BOOK  I. 

CHAPTEB  PAGt 

I.  Journey  through  Hereford  and  Kadnor        .  .  .  331 

II.  Journey  through  Hay  and  Breoheinia  .  .  .  337 

III.  Ewyas  and  Llanthoni  .....  354 

IV.  The  Journey  hy  Coed  Grono  and  Abergevenni         .  .  364 
V.  Of  the  progress  by  the  castle  of  Usk  and  Caerleon  .             .  371 

VI.  Newport  and  Caerdyf  .  .  .  .  .377 

VII.  The   see  of  Landaf  and  monastery  of  Margan,   and   the 

remarkable  things  in  those  parts  ....  383 
VIIT.  Passage  of  the  rivers  Avon  and  Neth — and  of  Abertawe  and 

Goer         .  .  .  .  .  .  .387 

IX.  Passage  over  the  rivers  Lochor  and  Wendraeth ;  and  of 

Cydweli     .  .  .  .  .  .  .392 

X.  Tjyry  river — Caermardyn — Monastery  of  Albelande  .  394 

XI.  Haverford  and  Eos  .  .  .  .  .398 

XII.  Penbroch 404 

XIII.  Of  the  progress  by  Camros  and  Niwegal       .  .  .  412 

BOOK  II. 

I.  Of  the  see  of  St.  David's       .  .  .  .  .414 

II.  Of  the  journey  by  Cemmeis — the  monastery  of  St.  Dogmael  422 

III.  Of  the  river  Teivi— Cardigan — Emelyn        .  .  .  427 

IV.  Of  the  journey  by  Pont  Stephen,  the  Abbey  of  Stratflur, 

Landewi  Brevi,  and  Lhanpadam  Vawr     .  .  432 

V.  Of  the  river  Devi,  and  the  land  of  the  sons  of  Conan  .  437 

VI.  Passage  of  Traeth  Mawr  and  Traeth  Bachan,  and  of  Nevyn, 

Carnarvon,  and  Bangor    .....  439 

VII.  The  island  of  Mona  .  .  .  .  .  .443 

VIII.  Passage  of  the  river  Convy^y  in  a  boat,  and  of  Dinas  Emrys    451 
IX.  Of  the  moTintains  of  Eryri     .....  453 

X.  Of  the  passage  by  Deganwy  and  Ruthlan,  and  the  see  of 

Lanelwy,  and  of  ColeshuUe  ....  455 

XI.  Of  the  passage  of  the  river  Dee,  and  of  Chester        .  .  459 
XII.  Of  the  journey  by  the  White  Monastery,   Oswaldestree, 

Powys,  and  Shrewsbury    .....  462 

XIII.  Of  the  journey  by  Wenloch,  Brumfeld,  the  castle  of  Ludlow, 

and  Leominster,  to  Hereford         ....  467 

XIV.  A  description  of  Baldwin,  archbishop  of  Canterbury  .  469 


ITINEEAEY  THEOUGH  WALES. 


BOOK  L 

CHAPTEE  I. 

JOTTENET    THEOUGH    HEEEFOED    AlfD    EADNOE. 

In  the  year  1188  from  the  incarnation  of  our  Lord,  Urban 
the  Third^  being  the  head  of  the  apostolic  see ;  Frederick, 
emperor  of  G-ermany  and  king  of  the  Eomans ;  Isaac,  em- 
peror of  Constantinople  ;  Philip,  the  son  of  Louis,  reigning 
in  Prance  ;  Henry  the  Second  in  England  ;  William  in 
Sicily;  Bela  in  Hungary ;  and  Gruy  in  Palestine:  in  that 
very  year,  when  Saladin,  prince  of  the  Egyptians  and  Da- 
mascenes, by  a  signal  victory  gained  possession  of  the  king- 
dom of  Jerusalem  ;  Baldwin,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  a 

'  Giraldus  has  committed  an  error  in  placing  Urban  III.  at  the  head 
of  the  apostolic  see  ;  for  he  died  at  Ferrara  in  the  month  of  October, 
A.D.  1187,  and  was  succeeded  by  Gregory  YIII.,  whose  short  reign  ex- 
pired in  the  month  of  December  following.  Clement  III.  was  elected 
pontiff  in  the  year  1188.  Frederick  I,,  sumamed  Barbarossa,  succeeded 
Conrad  III.  in  the  empire  of  Germany,  in  March,  1152,  and  was 
drowned  in  a  river  of  Cilicia  whilst  bathing,  in  1190.  Isaac  Angelua 
succeeded  Andronicus  I.  as  emperor  of  Constantinople,  in  1185,  and 
was  dethroned  in  1195.  Philip  II.,  sumamed  Augustus,  from  his  having 
been  bom  in  the  month  of  August,  was  crowned  at  Rheims,  in  1179,  and 
died  at  Mantes,  in  1223.  William  II.,  king  of  Sicily,  sumamed  the 
Good,  succeeded  in  1166  to  his  father,  William  the  Bad,  and  died  in 
1189.  Bela  III.,  king  of  Hungary,  succeeded  to  the  throne  in  1174, 
and  died  in  1196.  Q-uy  de  Lusignan  was  crowned  king  of  Jerusalem  in 
1186,  and  in  the  following  year  his  city  was  taken  by  the  victorioua 
SfOadin. 


332  THE   ITmEEAET  THEOTJGH  WAIES, 

venerable  man,  distinguislied  for  his  learning  and  sanctity, 
journeying  from  England  for  tlie  service  of  the  holy  cross, 
entered  Wales  near  the  borders  of  Herefordshire. 

The  archbishop  proceeded  to  Radnor/  on  Ash  Wednesday 
{Caput  Jejunii),  accompanied  by  Eanulph  de  Grlanville,'^  privy 
counsellor  and  justiciary  of  the  whole  kingdom,  and  there 
met  Rhys,^  son  of  Gruffydh,  prince  of  South  Wales,  and 
many  other  noble  personages  of  those  parts  ;  where  a  ser- 
mon being  preached  by  the  archbishop,  upon  the  subject  of 
the  Crusades,  and  explained  to  the  Welsh  by  an  interpreter, 
the  author  of  this  Itinerary,  impelled  by  the  urgent  impor- 
tunity and  promises  of  the  king,  and  the  persuasions  of  the 
archbishop  and  the  justiciary,  arose  the  first,  and  falling 
down  at  the  feet  of  the  holy  man,  devoutly  took  the  sign  of 
the  cross.  His  example  was  instantly  followed  by  Peter, 
bishop  of  St.  David's,*  a  monk  of  the  abbey  of  Cluny,  and 
then  by  Eineon,  son  of  Eineon  Clyd,^  prince  of  Elvenia,  and 
many  other  persons.  Eineon  rising  up,  said  to  Rhys,  whose 
daughter  he  had  married,  "  My  father  and  lord !  with  your 
permission  1  hasten  to  revenge  the  injury  offered  to  the 
great  father  of  all."  Ehys  himself  was  so  fully  determined 
upon  the  holy  peregrination,  as  soon  as  the  archbishop 
should  enter  his  territories  on  his  return,  that  for  nearly 

*  New  Radnor. 

2  On  Ranulph  de  Glanville,  see  a  former  note  in  the  History  of  the 
Conquest  of  Ireland. 

3  Rhys  ap  Gruffydh  was  grandson  to  Rhys  ap  Theodor,  prince  of 
South  Wales,  who,  in  1090,  was  slain  in  an  engagement  with  the  Nor- 
man  knight,  Robert  Fitzhamon,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Brecknock. 
He  was  a  prince  of  great  talent,  but  great  versatility  of  character,  and 
made  a  conspicuous  figure  in  Welsh  history.  He  died  in  1196,  and 
waa  buried  in  the  cathedral  of  St.  David's  ;  where  his  effigy,  as  well  as 
that  of  his  son  Rhys  Gryg,  still  remain  in  a  good  state  of  preserva- 
tion. 

*  Peter  de  Leia,  prior  of  the  Benedictine  monastery  of  Wenlock,  in 
Shropshire,  was  the  successful  rival  of  Giraldus  for  the  bishopric  of 
Saint  David's,  vacant  by  the  death  of  David  Fitzgerald,  the  uncle  of 
our  author  ;  but  he  did  not  obtain  his  promotion  without  considerable 
opposition  from  the  canons,  who  submitted  to  the  absolute  sequestra- 
tion of  their  property  before  they  consented  to  his  election,  being  de- 
sirous that  the  nephew  should  have  succeeded  his  uncle.  He  was  con- 
secrated in  1176,  and  died  in  1199. 

"  In  the  Latin  of  Giraldus,  the  name  Eineon  is  represented  by 
iEneas,  and  Eineon  Clyd  by  ^neas  Claudius. 


FIEST   PEEACHLN^G    OF   THE    CEUSADE.  333 

fifteen  days  lie  was  employed  with  great  solicitude  in  making 
the  necessary  preparations  for  so  distant  a  journey ;  till  hia 
wife,  and,  according  to  the  common  vicious  license  of  the 
country,  his  relation  in  the  fourth  degree,  Gruendolena, 
(Gwenlhian),  daughter  of  Madoc,  prince  of  Powys,  by 
female  artifices  diverted  him  wholly  from  his  noble  purpose  ; 
since,  as  Solomon  says,  "  A  man's  heart  deviseth  his  way, 
but  the  Lord  directeth  his  steps."  As  Ehys  before  his  de- 
parture was  conversing  with  his  friends  concerning  the 
things  he  had  heard,  a  distinguished  young  man  of  his 
family,  by  name  GrufFydh,  and  who  afterwards  took  the 
cross,  is  said  thus  to  have  answered  :  "  What  man  of  spirit 
can  refuse  to  undertake  this  journey,  since,  amongst  all  ima- 
ginable inconveniences,  nothing  worse  can  happen  to  any 
one  than  to  return." 

On  the  arrival  of  Ehys  in  his  own  territory,  certain 
canons  of  Saint  David's,  through  a  zeal  for  their  church, 
having  previously  secured  the  interest  of  some  of  the 
prince's  courtiers,  waited  on  Rhys,  and  endeavoured  by 
every  possible  suggestion  to  induce  him  not  to  permit  the 
archbishop  to  proceed  into  the  interior  parts  of  Wales,  and 
particularly  to  the  metropolitan  see  of  Saint  David's  (a 
thing  hitherto  unheard  of),  at  the  same  time  asserting  that 
if  he  should  continue  his  intended  journey,  the  church 
would  in  future  experience  great  prejudice,  and  with  diffi- 
culty would  recover  its  ancient  dignity  and  honour.  Al- 
though these  pleas  were  most  strenuously  urged,  the  natu- 
ral kindness  and  civility  of  the  prince  would  not  suffer  them 
to  prevail,  lest  by  prohibiting  the  archbishop's  progress,  he 
might  appear  to  wound  his  feelings. 

Early  on  the  following  morning,  after  the  celebration  of 
mass,  and  the  return  of  Ranulph  de  Grlanville  to  England, 
we  came  to  Cruker  Castle,^  two  miles  distant  from  Radnor, 
where  a  strong  and  valiant  youth  named  Hector,  conversing 

Cruker  Castle.  The  cori'esponding  distance  between  Old  and  New 
Radnor  evidently  places  this  castle  at  Old  Radnor,  which  was  anciently 
called  Pen-y-craig,  Pencraig,  or  Pen-criig,  from  its  situation  on  a  rocky 
eminence.  Cruker  is  a  corruption,  probably,  from  Crug-caerau,  the 
mount,  or  height,  of  the  fortifications.  It  has  been  supposed  to  be  the 
site  of  a  Roman  station,  but  this  supposition  appears  to  be  supported  by 
ao  direct  evidence. 


834r  THE   ITIXEEAET   THEOUGH    W^LES. 

with  the  archbishop  about  taking  the  cross,  said,  "  If  I  had 
the  means  of  getting  provisions  for  one  day,  and  of  keeping 
fast  on  the  next,  I  would  comply  with  your  advice ;"  on  the 
following  day,  however,  he  took  the  cross.  The  same  even- 
ing, Malgo,  son  of  Cadwallon,  prince  of  Melenia,  after  a 
short  but  efficacious  exhortation  from  the  archbishop,  and 
not  without  the  tears  and  lamentations  of  his  friends,  was 
marked  with  the  sign  of  the  cross. 

But  here  it  is  proper  to  mention  what  happened  during 
the  reign  of  king  Henry  the  First  to  the  lord  of  the  castle 
of  Radnor,  in  the  adjoining  territory  of  Buelt,^  who  had 
entered  the  church  of  Saint  Avan  (which  is  called  in  the 
British  language  Lhan  Avan),^  and,  without  sufficient  cau- 
tion or  reverence,  had  passed  the  night  there  with  his 
hounds.  Arising  early  in  the  morning,  according  to  the 
custom  of  hunters,  he  found  his  hounds  mad,  and  himself 
struck  blind.  After  a  long,  dark,  and  tedious  existence,  he 
was  conveyed  to  Jerusalem,  happily  taking  care  that  his 
inward  sight  should  not  in  a  similar  manner  be  extin- 
guished ;  and  there  being  accoutred,  and  led  to  the  field  of 
battle  on  horseback,  he  made  a  spirited  attack  upon  the 
enemies  of  the  faith,  and,  being  mortally  wounded,  closed 
his  life  with  honour. 

Another  circumstance  which  happened  in  these  our  days, 
in  the  province  of  Warthrenion,'  distant  from  hence  only  a 

^  Buelth  or  Builth,  a  large  market  town  on  the  north-west  edge  of 
the  county  of  Brecon,  on  the  southern  banks  of  the  Wye,  over  which 
there  is  a  long  and  handsome  bridge  of  stone.  It  had  formerly  a  strong 
castle,  the  site  and  earthworks  of  which  still  remain,  but  the  building 
is  destroyed. 

«  Llan-Avan,  a  small  church  at  the  foot  of  barren  mountains  about 
five  or  six  miles  north- west  of  Buelth.  The  saint  from  whom  it  takes 
its  name,  was  one  of  the  sons  of  Ced'g  ab  Cunedda ;  whose  ancestor, 
Cunedda,  king  of  the  Britons,  was  the  head  of  one  of  tlie  three  holy 
families  of  Britain.  He  is  said  to  have  lived  in  the  beginning  of  the 
sixth  century. 

3  Melenia,  Warthrenion,  Elevein,  Elvenia,  Melenyth,  and  Elvein, 
places  mentioned  in  this  first  chapter,  and  varying  in  their  orthography, 
seem  to  relate  to  three  difierent  districts  in  Radnorshire  :  Melenyth  is 
a  hundred  in  the  northern  part  of  the  county,  extending  into  Mont- 
gomeryshire, in  which  is  the  church  of  Keri :  Elvein  retains  in  modem 
days  the  name  of  Elvel,  and  is  a  hundred  in  the  southern  part  of  the 
county,  separated  from  Brecknockshire  by  the  Wye  ;  and  Warthrenion, 


STAFF    OF    ST.    CYBIC.  335 

few  furlongs,  is  not  unworthy  of  notice.  Eineon,  lord  of 
that  district,  and  son-in-law  to  prince  Bhys,  who  was  much 
addicted  to  the  chase,  having  on  a  certain  day  forced  the 
wild  beasts  from  their  coverts,  one  of  his  attendants  killed 
a  hiud  with  an  arrow,  as  she  was  springing  forth  from  the 
wood,  which,  contrary  to  the  nature  of  her  sex,  was  found 
to  bear  horns  of  twelve  years'  growth,  and  was  much  fatter 
than  a  stag,  in  the  haunches  as  well  as  in  every  other  part. 
On  account  of  the  singularity  of  tin's  circumstance,  the  head 
and  horns  of  this  strange  animal  were  destined  as  a  present 
to  king  Henry  the  Second.  This  event  is  the  more  remark- 
able, as  the  man  who  shot  the  hind  suddenly  lost  the  use  of 
his  right  eye,  and  being  at  the  same  time  seized  wath  a  para- 
lytic complaint,  remained  in  a  weak  and  impotent  state 
until  the  time  of  his  death. 

In  this  same  province  of  TVarthrenion,  and  in  the  church 
of  Saint  G-ermanus,^  there  is  a  staff  of  Saint  Cyric,^  covered 
on  all  sides  with  gold  and  silver,  and  resembling  in  its  upper 
part  the  form  of  a  cross  ;  its  efficacy  has  been  proved  in 
many  cases,  but  particularly  in  the  removal  of  glandular 
and  strumous  swellings  ;  insomuch  that  all  persons  afflicted 
with  these  complaints,  on  a  devout  application  to  the  staff, 
with  the  oblation  of  one  penny,  are   restored   to  health. 

in  •which  was  the  castle  built  by  prince  Rhys  at  Rhaiadyr-gwy,  seems  to 
have  been  situated  between  the  other  two.  Warthrenion  may  more 
properly  be  called  Gwyrthrynion  ;  it  was  anciently  one  of  the  tliree 
comots  of  Arwystli,  a  eantref  of  Merioneth,  though  since  by  stat.  27 
Henry  VIII.  attached  to  the  then  newly  erected  counties  of  Radnor 
and  Montgomery  :  Gwyrthrynion  is  in  the  former  county.  Maelienydd 
and  Elvel,  according  to  the  ancient  division  of  Wales  by  Roderic  the 
Great,  were  cantrefs  of  that  part  of  Powys,  or  Mathravel,  which  lay 
between  the  rivers  Wye  and  Severn ;  but  by  stat.  27  Henry  VIII.  were 
made  part  of  Radnorshire.  In  the  year  1174,  Melyenith  was  in  the 
possession  of  Cadwallon  ap  Madawe,  cousin  german  to  prince  Rhys  j 
Elvel  was  held  by  Eineon  Clyd,  and  Gwyrthrynion  by  Eineon  ap  Rhys, 
both  sons-in-law  to  that  illustrious  prince. 

'  The  church  of  Saint  Germanus  is  now  known  by  the  name  of  Saint 
Harmans,  and  is  situated  three  or  four  miles  from  Rhaiadyr,  in  Radnor- 
shire, on  the  right-hand  of  the  road  from  thence  to  Llanidloes  ;  it  is  a 
small  and  simple  structure,  placed  on  a  little  eminence,  in  a  dreary 
plain  surrounded  by  mountains. 

*  Several  churches  in  Wales  have  been  dedicated  to  Saint  Curig,  who 
was  a  stranger,  celebrated  for  his  learning  and  holy  life,  and  came  into 
Wales  in  the  se»  ^nth  century,  ' 


836  THE   ITINEEAET   THROrGH  TVALES. 

But  it  happened  in  these  our  days,  that  a  strumous  patient 
on  presenting  one  halfpenny  to  the  staff,  the  humour  sub- 
sided only  in  the  middle ;  but  when  the  oblation  was  com- 
pleted by  the  other  halfpenny,  an  entire  cure  was  accom- 
plished. Another  person  also  coming  to  the  staff  with  the 
promise  of  a  penny,  was  cured  ;  but  not  fulfilling  his  engage- 
ment on  the  day  appointed,  he  relapsed  into  his  former  dis- 
order ;  in  order,  however,  to  obtain  pardon  for  his  offence,  he 
tripled  the  offering  by  presenting  three-pence,  and  thus 
obtained  a  complete  cure. 

At  Elevein,  in  the  church  of  Glascum,^  is  a  portable  bell, 
endowed  with  great  virtues,  called  Bangu,'^  and  said  to  have 
belonged  to  Saint  David.  A  certain  woman  secretely  con- 
veyed this  bell  to  her  husband,  who  was  confined  in  the 
castle  of  Eaidergwy,^  near  Warthrenion,  (which  Khys,  son  of 
Gruffydh,  had  lately  built)  for  the  purpose  of  his  deliver- 
ance. The  keepers  of  the  castle  not  only  refused  to  liberate 
him  for  this  consideration,  but  seized  and  detained  the  bell ; 
and  in  the  same  night,  by  divine  vengeance,  the  whole  town, 
except  the  wall  on  which  the  bell  hung,  was  consumed  by 
fire. 

The  church  of  Luel,*  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Brecheinoc 
{Brechinia),  was  burned,  also  in  our  time,  by  the  enemy, 
and  everything  destroyed,  except  one  small  box,  in  which 
the  consecrated  host  was  deposited. 

^  Glascum  is  a  small  village  in  a  mountainous  and  retired  situation 
between  Buelth,  in  Brecknockshire,  and  Kington,  in  Herefordshire. 

2  Bangu. — This  was  a  hand  bell  kept  in  all  the  Welsh  churches 
during  the  times  of  popery,  which  the  clerk  or  sexton  took  to  the  house 
of  the  deceased  on  the  day  of  the  funeral :  when  the  procession  began, 
a  psalm  was  sung  ;  the  bellman  then  sounded  his  bell  in  a  solemn  man- 
ner for  some  time,  till  another  psalm  was  concluded ;  and  he  again 
soimded  it  at  intervals,  till  the  funeral  arrived  at  the  church.  The 
bangu  was  at  this  period  deemed  sacred,  which  accounts  for  the  super- 
stitious attributes  given  it  by  Giraldus. 

3  Rhaiadyr,  called  also  Ehaiader-gwy,  is  a  small  village  and  market- 
town  in  Radnorshire.  The  site  only  of  the  castle,  built  by  prince  Rhys, 
A.D.  1178,  now  remains  at  a  short  distance  from  the  village  ;  it  was 
strongly  situated  on  a  natural  rock  above  the  river  Wye,  which,  below 
the  bridge,  forms  a  cataract. 

*  Lly wel,  a  small  village  about  a  mile  from  Trecastle,  on  the  great  road 
leading  from  thence  to  Llandovery  ;  it  was  anciently  a  township,  and 
by  charter  of  Phihp  and  Mary  was  attached  to  the  borough  of  Breck- 
lyock,  by  the  name  of  Trecastle  ward 


TOTJENET   THROUGH    HAY   AND    BRECHEINIA.  337 

It  came  to  pass  also  in  the  province  of  Elvenia,  which  is 
separated  from  Hay  by  the  river  Wye,  in  the  night  in  which 
king  Henry  I.  expired,  that  two  pools^  of  no  small  extent, 
the  one  natural,  the  other  artificial,  suddenly  burst  their 
bounds;  the  latter,  by  its  precipitate  course  down  the 
declivities,  emptied  it^lf ;  but  the  former,  with  its  fish  and 
contents,  obtained  a  permanent  situation  in  a  valley  about 
two  miles  distant.  In  Normandy,  a  few  days  before  the 
death  of  Henry  IL,  the  fish  of  a  certain  pool  near 
Seez,  five  miles  from  the  castle  of  Exme,  fought  during  the 
night  so  furiously  with  each  other,  both  in  the  water  and 
out  of  it,  that  the  neighbouring  people  were  attracted  by 
the  noise  to  the  spot;  and  so  desperate  was  the  conflict, 
that  scarcely  a  fish  was  found  alive  in  the  morning ;  thus,  by 
a  wonderful  and  unheard-of  prognostic,  foretelling  the  death 
of  one  by  that  of  many. 

But  the  borders  of  Wales  sufficiently  remember  and  ab- 
lior  the  great  and  enormous  excesses  which,  from  ambitious 
usurpation  of  territory,  have  arisen  amongst  brothers  and 
relations  in  the  districts  of  Melenyth,  Elvein,  and  Warth- 
renion,  situated  between  the  Wye  and  the  Severn, 

CHAPTER  IL 

JOURNEY    THROUGH    HAY    AND    BRECHEINIA. 

Having  crossed  the  river  Wye,  we  proceeded  towards  Brec- 
heinoc,  and  on  preaching  a  sermon  at  Hay,^  we  observed 

'  Leland,  in  his  description  of  this  part  of  Wales,  mentions  a  lake 
in  Low  Elvel,  or  Elvenia,  which  may  perhaps  be  the  same  as  that  alluded 
to  in  this  passage  of  Giraldus.  "  There  is  a  llinne  in  Low  Elvel 
within  a  mile  of  Payne's  castel  by  the  church  called  Lanpeder.  The 
llinne  is  cauUid  Bougklline,  and  is  of  no  great  quantite,  but  is  plentiful 
of  pike,  and  perche,  and  eles." — Leland,  Itin.  tom.  v.  p.  72. 

2  Hay. — A  pleasant  market-town  on  the  southern  banks  of  the  river 
Wye,  over  which  there  is  a  bridge.  It  still  retains  some  marks  of  ba- 
ronial antiquity  in  the  old  castle,  within  the  present  town,  the  gateway 
of  which  is  tolerably  perfect.  A  high  raised  tumulus  adjoining  the 
church  marks  the  site  of  the  more  ancient  fortress.  The  more  modera 
and  spacious  castle  owes  its  foundation  probably  to  one  of  those  Nor- 
man lords,  who,  about  the  year  1090,  conquered  this  part  of  Wales. 
Little  notice  is  taken  of  this  castle  in  the  Welsh  chronicles  ;  but  we  are 
informed  that  it  was  destroyed  in  1231,  by  Henry  II.,  and  that  it  wm 
refortified  by  Henry  III, 

8 


THE   ITINEEAET   THEOUGH   WALES. 

some  amongst  the  multitude,  who  were  to  be  signed  with 
the  cross  (leaving  their  garments  in  the  hands  of  their 
friends  or  wives,  who  endeavoured  to  keep  them  back),  fly 
for  refuge  to  the  archbishop  in  the  castle.  Early  in  the 
morning  we  began  our  journey  to  Aberhodni,  and  the  word 
of  the  Lord  being  preached  at  Landeu,^  we  there  spent  the 
night.  The  castle  and  chief  town  of  the  province,  situated 
where  the  river  Hodni  joins  the  river  Usk,  is  called  Aber- 
hodni ;^  and  every  place  where  one  river  falls  into  another 
is  called  Aber  in  the  British  tongue.  Landeu  signifies  the 
church  of  Grod.  The  archdeacon  of  that  place  (Griraldus) 
presented  to  the  archbishop  his  work  on  the  Topography 
of  Ireland,  which  he  graciously  received,  and  either  read 
or  heard  a  part  of  it  read  attentively  every  day  during  his 
journey ;  and  on  his  return  to  England  completed  the 
perusal  of  it. 

I  have  determined  not  to  omit  mentioning  those  occur- 
rences worthy  of  note  which  happened  in  these  parts  in  our 
days.  It  came  to  pass  before  that  great  war,  in  which 
nearly  all  this  province  was  destroyed  by  the  sons  of  Jestin,' 
that  the  large  lake,  and  the  river  Leveni,*  which  flows  from 

1  Llanddew,  a  small  village,  about  two  miles  from  Brecknock,  on  the 
left  of  the  road  leading  from  thence  to  Hay ;  its  manor  belongs  to  the 
bishops  of  Saint  David's,  who  had  formerly  a  castellated  uuuision  there, 
of  which  some  ruins  still  remain.  The  tithes  of  this  parish  are  appro- 
priated to  the  archdeaconry  of  Brecknock,  and  here  was  the  residence 
of  our  author  Griraldus,  which  he  mentions  in  several  of  his  writings, 
and  alludes  to  with  heartfelt  satisfaction  at  the  end  of  the  thu-d  chapter 
of  this  Itinerary. 

2  Aberhodni,  the  ancient  name  of  the  town  and  castle  of  Brecknock, 
derived  from  its  situation  at  the  confluence  of  the  river  Hodni  with  the 
Usk.  The  castle  and  two  religious  buildings,  of  which  the  remains 
are  still  extant,  owed  their  foundation  to  Bernard  de  Newmarch,  a  Nor- 
man knight,  who,  in  the  year  1090,  obtained  by  conquest  the  lordship 
of  Brecknock. 

*  Jestyn  ap  Gurgant  was  lord  of  the  province  of  Morganwe,  or  Gla- 
morgan, and  a  formidable  rival  to  Rhys  ap  Theodor,  prince  of  South 
Wales  ;  but  unable  to  cope  with  him  in  power,  he  prevailed  on  Robert 
Fitzhamon,  a  Norman  knight,  to  come  to  his  assistance,  by  whom,  and 
his  knights,  this  part  of  South  Wales  was  afterwards  completely  sub- 
dued. 

*  This  Uttle  river  rises  near  the  ruins  of  BlanUyfni  castle,  between 
Llangorse  pool  and  the  turnpike  road  leading  from  Brecknock  to  Aber 
pivenuy,  and  empties  itself  irto  the  river  Usk,  near  Glasbuiy. 


DEEAM    or    THE    CHAPLAIN    OF   ABEEHODNI.  339 

it  into  the  "Wye,  opposite  Grlasbyry,^  were  tinged  with  a 
deep  green  colour.  The  old  people  of  the  country  were 
consulted,  and  answered,  that  a  short  time  before  the  great 
desolation^  caused  by  Howel,  son  of  Meredyth,  the  water 
had  been  coloured  in  a  similar  manner.  About  the  same 
time,  a  chaplain,  whose  name  was  Hugo,  being  engaged  to 
officiate  at  the  chapel  of  Saint  Nicholas,  in  the  castle  of 
Aberhodni,  saw  in  a  dream  a  venerable  man  standing  near 
him,  and  saying,  "  Tell  thy  lord  William  de  Braose,^  who 
has  the  audacity  to  retain  the  property  granted  to  the 
chapel  of  Saint  Nicholas  for  charitable  uses,  these  words  : 
'  The  public  treasury  takes  away  that  which  Christ  does 
not  receive  ;  and  thou  wilt  then  give  to  an  impious  soldier, 
what  thou  wilt  not  give  to  a  priest.'  "  This  vision  having 
been  repeated  three  times,  he  went  to  the  archdeacon  of  the 
place,  at  Landeu,  and  related  to  him  what  had  happened. 
The  archdeacon  immediately  knew  them  to  be  the  words  of 
Augustine;  and   shewing   him  that   part   of  his   writings 

^  A  pretty  little  village  on  the  southern  banks  of  the  Usk,  about  four 
miles  from  Hay,  on  the  road  leading  to  Brecknock. 

2  The  great  desolation  here  alluded  to,  is  attributed  by  Dr.  Powel  to 
Howel  and  Meredyth,  sons  of  Edwyn  ap  Eineon ;  not  to  Howel,  son 
of  Meredith.  In  the  year  1021,  they  conspired  against  Llewelyn  ap 
Sitsylht,  and  slew  him  :  Meredith  was  slain  in  1033,  and  Howel  in  1043. 

3  William  de  Breusa,  or  Braose,  has  been  mentioned  in  the  Yatici- 
nal  History  ;  he  was  by  extraction  a  Norman,  and  had  extensive  pos- 
sessions in  England,  as  well  as  Normandy  :  he  was  succeeded  by  his 
son  Philip,  who,  in  the  reign  of  WiUiam  Rufus,  favoured  the  cause 
of  king  Henry  against  Robert  Ciu-those,  duke  of  Normandy ;  and 
being  afterwards  rebellious  to  his  sovereign,  was  disinherited  of  his 
lands.  By  his  marriage  with  Berta,  daughter  of  Milo,  earl  of  Here- 
ford, he  gained  a  rich  inheritance  in  Brecknock,  Overwent,  and 
Grower.  He  left  issue  two  sons  :  WilHam  and  Philip :  William  mar- 
ried Maude  de  Saint  Wallery,  and  succeeded  to  the  great  estate  of  his 
father  and  mother,  which  he  kept  in  peaceable  possession  during  the 
reigns  of  king  Henry  II.  and  king  Richard  I.  In  order  to  avoid  the 
persecutions  of  king  John,  he  retired  with  his  family  to  Ireland  ;  and 
from  thence  returned  into  Wales  ;  on  hearing  of  the  king's  arrival  in 
Ireland,  his  wife  Maude  fled  with  her  sons  into  Scotland,  where  she  was 
taken  prisoner,  and  in  the  year  1210  committed,  with  Wilham,  her  eon 
and  heir,  to  Corf  castle,  and  there  miserably  starved  to  death,  by 
order  of  king  John ;  her  husband,  William  de  Braose,  escaped  into 
France  disguised,  and  dying  there,  was  bui'ied  in  the  abbey  church  of 
Saint  Victor,  at  Paris.  The  family  of  Saint  Walery,  or  Yalery,  derived 
their  name  from  a  sea-port  in  France. 

z2 


340  THE    ITIKEEAET    THEOUGH   WALEfl. 

where  they  were  found,  explained  to  him  the  case  to  which 
they  applied.  He  reproaches  persons  who  held  back  tithes 
and  other  ecclesiastical  dues  ;  and  what  he  there  threatens, 
certainly  in  a  short  time  befell  this  withholder  of  them  :  for 
in  our  time  we  have  duly  and  undoubtedly  seen,  that  princes 
who  have  usurped  ecclesiastical  benefices  (and  particularly 
king  Henry  the  Second,  who  laboured  under  this  vice  more 
than  others),  have  profusely  squandered  the  treasures  of 
the  church,  and  given  away  to  hired  soldiers  what  injustice 
should  have  been  given  only  to  priests. 

Tet  something  is  to  be  said  in  favour  of  the  aforesaid 
"William  de  Braose,  although  he  greatly  offended  in  this 
particular  (since  nothing  human  is  perfect,  and  to  have 
knowledge  of  all  things,  and  in  no  point  to  err,  is  an  attri- 
bute of  Grod,  not  of  man)  ;  for  he  always  placed  the  name 
of  the  Lord  before  his  sentences,  saying,  "  Let  this  be  done 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord ;  let  that  be  done  by  Grod's  will ; 
if  it  shall  please  Grod,  or  if  Grod  grant  leave  ;  it  shall  be  so 
by  the  grace  of  Grod."  We  learn  from  Saint  Paul,  that 
every  thing  ought  thus  to  be  committed  and  referred  to  the 
will  of  Grod.  On  taking  leave  of  his  brethren,  he  says,  "  I 
will  return  to  you  again,  if  God  permit ;"  and  Saint  James 
uses  this  expression,  "  If  the  Lord  will,  and  we  live,"  in 
order  to  show  that  all  things  ought  to  be  submitted  to  the 
divine  disposal.  The  letters  also  which  William  de  Braose, 
as  a  rich  and  powerful  man,  was  accustomed  to  send  to 
different  parts,  were  loaded,  or  rather  honoured,  with  words 
expressive  of  the  divine  indulgence  to  a  degree  not  only 
tiresome  to  his  scribe,  but  even  to  his  auditors;  for  as 
a  reward  to  each  of  his  scribes  for  concluding  his  letters 
with  the  words,  "  by  divine  assistance,"  he  gave  annually 
a  piece  of  gold,  in  addition  to  their  stipend.  When 
on  a  journey  he  saw  a  church  or  a  cross,  although  in 
the  midst  of  conversation  either  with  his  inferiors  or 
superiors,  from  an  excess  of  devotion,  he  immediately  began 
to  pray,  and  when  he  had  finished  his  prayers,  resumed  his 
conversation.  On  meeting  boys  in  the  way,  he  invited  them 
by  a  previous  salutation  to  salute  him,  that  the  blessings  of 
these  innocents,  thus  extorted,  might  be  returned  to  him. 
His  wife,  Matilda  de  Saint  Yalery,  observed  all  these  things ; 
a  prudent  and  chaste  woman ;  a  woman  placed  with  pro- 


MIBACLE   AT  LLAKTAES.  341 

ppiety  at  the  head  of  her  house,  equally  attentive  to  the 
economical  disposal  of  her  property  within  doors,  as  to  the 
augmentation  of  it  without ;  both  of  whom,  I  hope,  by 
their  devotion  obtained  temporal  happiness  and  grace,  as 
well  as  the  glory  of  eternity. 

It  happened  also  that  the  hand  of  a  boy,  who  was  endea- 
vouring to  take  some  young  pigeons  from  a  nest,  in  the 
church  of  Saint  David  of  Lhanvaes,^  adhered  to  the  stone 
on  which  he  leaned,  through  the  miraculous  vengeance,  per- 
haps, of  that  saint,  in  favour  of  the  birds  who  had  taken 
refuge  in  his  church ;  and  when  the  boy,  attended  by  his 
friends  and  parents,  had  for  three  successive  days  and  nights 
offered  up  his  prayers  and  supplications  before  the  holy  altar 
of  the  church,  his  hand  was,  on  the  third  day,  liberated  by 
the  same  divine  power  which  had  so  miraculously  fastened 
it.  We  saw  this  same  boy  at  Newbury,  in  England,  now 
advanced  in  years,  presenting  himself  before  David  the 
Second,^  bishop  of  Saint  David's,  and  certifying  to  him  the 
truth  of  this  relation,  because  it  had  happened  in  hia 
diocese.  The  stone  is  preserved  in  the  church  to  this  day 
among  the  relics,  and  the  marks  of  the  five  fingers  appear 
impressed  on  the  flint  as  though  it  were  in  wax. 

A  similar  miracle  happened  at  St.  Edmundsbury  to  a 
poor  woman,  who  often  visited  the  shrine  of  the  saint,  under 
the  mask  of  devotion ;  not  with  the  design  of  giving,  but  of 
taking*  something  away,  namely,  the  silver  and  gold  offer- 
ings, which,  by  a  curious  kind  of  theft,  she  licked  up  by 
kissing,  and  carried  away  in  her  mouth.  But  in  one  of 
these  attempts  her  tongue  and  lips  adhered  to  the  altar, 
when  by  divine  interposition  she  was  detected,  and  openly 
disgorged  the  secret  theft.  Many  persons,  both  Jews  and 
Christians,  expressing  their  astonishment,  flocked  to  the 
place,  where  for  the  greater  part  of  the  day  she  remained 

*  A  small  church  dedicated  to  Saint  David,  in  the  suburbs  of  Breck- 
nock, on  the  great  road  leading  from  thence  to  Trecastle.  "  The  par- 
oche  of  Llanvays,  Llan-chirch-Vais  extra,  ac  si  diceres,  extra  muros. 
It  standeth  betwixt  the  river  of  Uske  and  Tyrtorelle  brooke,  that  is, 
about  the  lower  ende  of  the  town  of  Brekenok  " — Leland^  It'm.  torn.  v. 
p.  69. 

2  David  Fitzgerald  was  promoted  to  the  see  of  Saint  David>  in 
1147,  or,  according  to  others,  in  1149.     He  died  a.d.  1176. 


342  THE    ITINERARY    THEOUGH    WALES. 

motionless,  tliat  no  possible  doubt  might  be  entertained  of 
the  miracle. 

In  the  north  of  England  beyond  the  Humber,  in  the 
church  of  Hovedene/  the  concubine  of  the  rector  incau- 
tiously sat  down  on  the  tomb  of  St.  Osana,  sister  of  king 
Osred,^  which  projected  like  a  wooden  seat ;  on  wishing  to 
retire,  she  could  not  be  removed,  until  the  people  came  to 
lier  assistance :  her  clothes  were  rent,  her  body  was  laid 
bare,  and  severely  afflicted  with  many  strokes  of  discipline, 
even  till  the  blood  flowed ;  nor  did  she  regain  her  liberty, 
until  by  many  tears  and  sincere  repentance  she  had  showed 
evident  signs  of  compunction. 

"What  miraculous  power  hath  not  in  our  days  been  dis- 
played by  the  psalter  of  Quindreda,  sister  of  St.  Kenelm,' 
by  whose  instigation  he  was  killed  ?  On  the  vigil  of  the 
Baint,  when,  according  to  custom,  great  multitudes  of  women 
resorted  to  the  feast  at  Winchelcumbe,^  the  under  butler 
of  that  convent  committed  fornication  with  one  of  them 
within  the  precincts  of  the  monastery.     This  same  man  on 

'  Now  HowdeB,  in  the  East  Riding  of  Yorkshire. 
2  Osred  was  king  of  the  Northumbrians,  and  son  of  Alfred.  Hi8 
reign  was  short ;  for  the  same  giddy  mnkitnde  who  had  placed  the 
diadem  on  his  head,  a.d.  791,  deprived  hira  of  it  in  less  than  a  year. 
He  fled  for  security  to  the  Isle  of  Man,  but  was  afterwards  ensnared  by 
Ethelred,  his  successor,  and,  falHng  a  sacrifice  to  his  wiles,  was  put  to 
death  at  a  place  called  Dinburch. 

'  St.  Kenelm  was  the  only  son  and  heir  of  Kenulfiis,  king  of  the 
Mercians,  who  left  him  under  the  care  of  his  two  sisters,  Quendreda 
and  Bragenilda.  The  former,  bhnded  by  ambition,  resolyed  to  destroy 
the  innnocent  child,  who  stood  between  her  and  the  throne ;  and  for 
that  purpose  prevailed  on  Ascebert,  who  attended  constantly  on  the 
king,  to  murder  him  privately,  giving  him  hopes,  in  case  he  complied 
with  her  wishes,  of  making  him  her  partner  in  the  kingdom.  Under 
the  pretence  of  diverting  his  young  master,  this  wicked  servant  led  him 
into  a  retired  vale  at  Clent,  in  Staffordshire,  and  having  murdered  him, 
dug  a  pit,  and  cast  his  body  into  it,  which  was  discovered  by  a  miracle, 
and  carried  in  solemn  procession  to  the  abbey  of  Winchelcomb.  In 
the  parish  of  Clent  is  a  small  chapel  dedicated  to  this  saint ;  and  on 
one  of  the  outward  walls  is  the  rude  figm-e  of  a  child,  holding  up  hii 
right  hand,  as  if  in  the  act  of  giving  the  benediction.  In  the  chapel 
yard  is  a  fine  spring,  which  in  former  days  was  much  celebrated  for  ita 
mii'aculous  qualities 

*  Winchelcumbe,  or  Winchcomb,  in  the  lower  part  of  the  hundred  of 
Kiftsgate,  in  Gloucestershire,  a  few  miles  to  the  north  of  Cheltenham. 


ST.    CANArc's    COLLAE.  343 

tlie  following  day  had  the  audacity  to  carry  the  psalter  in 
the  procession  of  the  relics  of  the  saints ;  and  on  his  return 
to  the  choir,  after  the  solemnity,  the  psalter  stuck  to  his 
hands.  Astonished  and  greatly  confounded,  and  at  length 
calling  to  mind  his  crime  on  the  preceding  day,  he  made 
confession,  and  underwent  penance ;  and  being  assisted  by 
the  prayers  of  the  brotherhood,  and  having  shown  signs  of 
sincere  contrition,  he  was  at  length  liberated  from  the  mira- 
culous bond.  That  book  was  held  in  great  veneration  ;  be- 
cause, when  the  body  of  St.  Kenelm  was  carried  forth,  and 
the  multitude  cried  out,  "  He  is  the  martyr  of  Grod  !  truly  he 
is  the  martyr  of  Grod!"  Quindreda,  conscious  and  guilty  of 
the  murder  of  her  brother,  answered,  "  He  is  as  truly  the 
martyr  of  Grod  as  it  is  true  that  my  eyes  be  on  that  psalter ;" 
for,  as  she  was  reading  the  psalter,  both  her  eyes  were  mira- 
culously torn  from  her  head,  and  fell  on  the  book,  v/here 
the  marks  of  the  blood  yet  remain. 

Moreover  I  must  not  be  silent  concerning  the  collar 
ijonques)  which  they  call  St.  Canauc's;^  for  it  is  most  like 
to  gold  in  weight,  nature,  and  colour ;  it  is  in  four  pieces 
wrought  round,  joined  together  artificially,  and  clefted  as  it 
were  in  the  middle,  with  a  dog's  head,  the  teeth  standing 
outward ;  it  is  esteemed  by  the  inhabitants  so  powerful  a 
relic,  that  no  man  dares  swear  falsely  when  it  is  laid  before 
him :  it  bears  the  marks  of  some  severe  blows,  as  if  made 
with  an  iron  hammer ;  for  a  certain  man,  as  it  is  said, 
endeavouring  to  break  the  collar  for  the  sake  of  the  gold, 
experienced  the  divine  vengeance,  was  deprived  of  his  eye- 
sight, and  lingered  the  remainder  of  his  days  in  darkness, 

A  similar  circumstance  concerning  the  horn  of  St.  Patrick^ 
(not  golden  indeed,  but  of  brass  [probably  bronze],  which 

'  The  antiquary  will  recognize  in  this  description  the  well- known  pe- 
culiarities of  a  Roman  torques.  St.  Kynauc,  who  floui-ished  (according 
to  the  legend)  about  the  year  492,  was  the  reputed  son  of  Brychan, 
lord  of  Brecknock,  by  Benadulved,  daughter  of  Benadyl,  a  prince 
of  Powis,  whom  he  seduced  during  the  time  of  his  detention  as  an 
hostage  at  the  court  of  her  father.  He  is  said  to  have  been  murdered 
upon  the  mountain  called  the  Van,  and  buried  in  the  church  of  Mer* 
thyr  Cynawg,  or  Cynawg  the  Martyr,  near  Brecknock,  which  is  dedi* 
cated  to  his  memory. 

'^  This  miracle  relating  to  the  horn  is  related  by  Giraldus  in  his  To- 
pography of  Ireland. 


844  THE   ITINEBAET    THEOITGH   WALES. 

lately  was  brought  into  these  parts  from  Ireland)  excites  ova 
admiration.  The  miraculous  power  of  this  relic  first  appeared 
with  a  terrible  example  in  that  country,  through  the  foolish 
and  absurd  blowing  of  Bernard,  a  priest,  as  is  set  forth  in 
our  Topography  of  Ireland.  Both  the  laity  and  clergy  in 
Ireland,  Scotland,  and  "Wales  held  in  such  great  veneration 
portable  bells,  and  staves  crooked  at  the  top,  and  covered 
with  gold,  silver,  or  brass,  and  similar  relics  of  the  saints, 
that  they  were  much  more  afraid  of  swearing  falsely  by 
them  than  by  the  gospels ;  because,  from  some  hidden  and 
miraculoas  power  with  which  they  are  gifted,  and  the  venge- 
ance of  the  saint  to  whom  they  are  particularly  pleasing, 
their  despisers  and  transgressors  are  severely  punished. 
The  most  remarkable  circumstance  attending  this  horn  is, 
that  whoever  places  the  wider  end  of  it  to  his  ear  will  hear 
a  sweet  sound  and  melody  united,  such  as  ariseth  from  a 
harp  gently  touched. 

In  our  days  a  strange  occurrence  happened  in  the  same 
district.  A  wild  sow,  vrhich  by  chance  had  been  suckled  by 
a  bitch  famous  for  her  nose,  became,  on  growing  up,  so 
wonderfully  active  in  the  pursuit  of  wild  animals,  that  in 
the  faculty  of  scent  she  was  greatly  superior  to  dogs,  who 
are  assisted  by  natural  instinct,  as  well  as  by  human  art ; 
an  argument  that  man  (as  well  as  every  other  animal)  con- 
tracts the  nature  of  the  female  who  nurses  him.  Another 
prodigious  event  came  to  pass  nearly  at  the  same  time.  A 
soldier,  whose  name  was  Q-ilbert  Hagernel,  after  an  illness 
of  nearly  three  years,  and  the  severe  pains  as  of  a  woman 
in  labour,  in  the  presence  of  many  people,  voided  a  calf. 
A  portent  of  some  new  and  imusual  event,  or  rather  the 
punishment  attendant  on  some  atrocious  crime.  It  appears 
also  from  the  ancient  and  authentic  records  of  those  parts, 
that  during  the  time  St.  Elwitus^  led  the  life  of  a  hermit  at 

^  St.  Elwitus. — In  Welsh,  Illtyd,  -which  has  heen  latinized  into  Iltu- 
tu8,  as  in  the  instance  of  St.  Iltutus,  the  celebrated  disciple  of  Germa- 
nus,  and  the  master  of  the  learned  Gildas,  who  founded  a  college  for 
the  instruction  of  youth  at  Llantwit,  on  the  coast  of  Glamorganshire ; 
but  I  do  not  conceive  this  to  be  the  same  person.  The  name  of  Ty- 
Illtyd,  or  St.  Dltyd's  house,  is  still  known  at  Llanamllech,  but  it  is 
applied  to  one  of  those  monuments  of  Dniidical  antiquity  caDed  a 
cistvaen,  erected  upon  an  eminence  named  Maenest,  at  a  short  distance 
from  the  village.     It  is  composed  of  three  rude  stones  pitched  iirmly 


BEENAED   DE   NEWMABCH.  345 

Lhanhamelacli,^  the  mare  that  used  to  carry  his  provisions 
to  him  was  covered  by  a  stag,  and  produced  an  animal  of 
wonderful  speed,  resembling  a  horse  before  and  a  stag  be- 
hind. 

Bernard  de  Newmarch*  was  the  first  of  the  Normans  who 
acquired  by  conquest  from  the  Welsh  this  province,  which 
was  divided  into  three  cantreds.^  He  married  the  daughter 
of  Nest,  daughter  of  Gruffydh,  son  of  Lhewelyn,  who,  by 
his  tyranny,  for  a  long  time  had  oppressed  Wales  ;  his  wife 
took  her  mother's  name  of  Nest,  which  the  English  trans- 
muted into  Anne ;  by  whom  he  had  children,  one  of  whom, 
named  Mahel,  a  distinguished  soldier,  was  thus  unjustly  de- 
prived of  his  paternal  inheritance.    His  mother,  in  violation 

in  the  ground,  and  supporting  a  fourth,  placed  in  a  declining  posture 
upon  the  top,  and  evidently  of  the  same  construction  with  what  is  else- 
where called  a  cromllech.  The  space  beneath  is  about  eight  feet  long, 
four  feet  wide,  and  nearly  of  the  same  height,  and  open  at  one  end. 
The  side  stones  within  are  inscribed  with  a  number  of  strange  charac- 
ters, shghtly  scratched  with  the  point  of  some  sharp  instrument,  but 
without  any  seeming  order,  the  playful  handiwork,  perhaps,  of  those 
who  from  cviriosity  have  visited  the  hermit's  cell.  A  rude,  upright 
Btone  stood  formerly  on  one  side  of  it,  and  was  called  by  the  country 
people  Maen  Illtyd,  or  lUtyd's  stone,  but  was  removed  about  a  cen- 
tury ago.  A  well,  the  stream  of  which  divides  this  parish  from  the 
neighbouring  one  of  Llansaintfraid,  is  called  Ffynnon  Illtyd,  or  Illtyd's 
weU.  This  was  evidently  the  site  of  the  hermitage  mentioned  by 
Giraldus. 

'  Lhanhamelach,  or  Llanamllech,  is  a  small  village,  three  miles  from 
Brecknock,  on  the  road  to  Abergavenny. 

2  The  name  of  Newmarche  appears  in  the  chartulary  of  Battel 
abbey,  as  a  witness  to  one  of  the  charters  granted  by  Wilham  the  Con- 
queror to  the  monks  of  Battel  in  Sussex,  upon  his  foundation  of  their 
house.  He  obtained  the  territory  of  Brecknock  by  conquest,  from 
Bleddyn  ap  Maenyrch,  the  Welsh  regulus  thereof,  about  the  year 
1092,  soon  after  his  countryman,  Robert  Fitzhamon,  had  reduced  the 
county  of  Grlamorgan.  He  bviilt  the  present  tovm  of  Brecknock,  where 
he  also  founded  a  priory  of  Benedictine  monks.  According  to  Leland, 
he  was  buried  in  the  cloister  of  the  cathedral  church  at  Gloucester, 
though  the  mutilated  remains  of  an  effigy  and  monument  are  still  as- 
cribed to  him  in  the  priory  chiu'ch  at  Brecknock. 

'  Brecheinoc,  now  Brecknockshire,  had  three  cantreds  or  hundreds, 
and  eight  comots. — 1.  Cantref  Selef  with  the  comots  of  Selef  and  Tra- 
hayem. — 2.  Cantref  Canol,  or  the  middle  hundred,  with  the  comot» 
Talgarth,  Ystradwy,  and  Brwynlys,  or  Eglwys  YaU. — 3.  Cantref  Mawr, 
or  the  great  hundred,  with  the  comots  of  Tir  Kaulff  Llvwel,  and  Cerrig 
Howel, — Powel's  description  of  Wales,  p.  20, 


346  THE    ITINEEAET    THROUGH   WALES. 

of  the  marriage  contract,  held  an  adulterous  intercourse 
with  a  certain  knight;  on  the  discovery  of  which,  the  son 
met  the  knight  returning  in  the  night  from  his  mother,  and 
having  inflicted  on  him  a  severe  corporal  punishment,  and 
mutilated  him,  sent  him  away  with  great  disgrace.  The 
mother,  alarmed  at  the  confusion  which  this  event  caused, 
and  agitated  with  grief,  breathed  nothing  but  revenge.  She 
therefore  went  to  king  Henry  I.,  and  declared  with  asser- 
tions more  vindictive  than  true,  and  corroborated  by  an 
oath,  tliat  her  son  Mahel  was  not  the  son  of  Bernard,  but 
of  another  person  with  whom  she  had  been  secretly  con- 
nected. Henry,  on  account  of  this  oath,  or  rather  perjury, 
and  swayed  more  by  his  inclination  than  by  reason,  gave 
away  her  eldest  daughter,  whom  she  owned  as  the  legiti- 
mate child  of  Bernard,  in  marriage  to  Milo  Pitz-Walter,' 
constable  of  G-loucester,  with  the  honour  of  Brecheinoc  as 
a  portion  ;  and  he  was  afterwards  created  earl  of  Hereford 
by  the  empress  Matilda,  daughter  of  the  said  king.  By  this 
wife  he  had  five  celebrated  warriors  ;  Roger,  Walter,  Henry, 
William,  and  Mahel ;  all  of  whom,  by  divine  vengeance,  or 
by  fatal  misfortunes,  came  to  untimely  ends  ;  and  yet  each 
of  them,  except  William,  succeeded  to  the  paternal  inherit- 
ance, but  left  no  issue.  Thus  this  woman  (not  deviating 
from  the  nature  of  her  sex),  in  order  to  satiate  her  anger 
and  revenge,  with  the  heavy  loss  of  modesty,  and  with  the 
disgrace  of  infamy,  by  the  same  act  deprived  her  son  of  his 
patrimony,  and  herself  of  honour.  Nor  is  it  wonderful  if  a 
woman  follows  her  innate  bad  disposition :  for  it  is  written  in 
Ecclesiastes,  "  I  have  found  one  good  man  out  of  a  thousand, 

^  Milo  was  son  to  Walter,  constable  of  England  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  I.,  and  Emme  his  wife,  one  of  the  daughters  of  Dru  de  Baladun, 
sister  to  Hameline  de  Baladun,  a  person  of  great  note,  who  carae  into 
England  with  William  the  Conqueror,  and,  being  the  first  lord  of  Over- 
went in  the  county  of  Monmouth,  built  the  castle  of  Abergavenny. 
Milo  was  an  expert  soldier,  and  one  of  the  chief  counsellors  to  king 
Henry,  who  gave  to  him  in  marriage  Sibyll,  eldest  daughter  of  Ber- 
nard de  Newmarch,  together  with  the  honour  of  Brecknock.  He  so  far 
ingratiated  himself  with  the  empress  Matilda,  by  taking  her  part  against 
king  Stephen,  that,  in  return  for  his  services,  she  created  him  earl  of 
Hereford.  He  was  wounded  by  an  arrow  while  hunting,  on  Christmas 
eve,  in  1144,  and  was  buried  in  the  chapter-house  of  Lauthoai,  neai 
Gloucester. 


THE  CHAEACTEB  OF  THE  FEMALE  SEX.       847 

but  not  one  good  woman ;"  and  in  Ecclesiasticus,  "  There 
is  no  head  above  the  head  of  a  serpent ;  and  there  is  no 
wrath  above  the  wrath  of  a  woman  ;"  and  again,  "  Small  is 
the  wickedness  of  man  compared  to  the  wickedness  of 
woman,"  And  in  the  same  manner,  as  we  may  gather 
grapes  off  thorns,  or  figs  off  thistles,  Tully,  describing  the 
nature  of  women,  says,  "  Men,  perhaps,  for  the  sake  of 
some  advantage  will  commit  one  crime  ;  but  woman,  to  gra- 
tify one  inclination,  will  not  scruple  to  perpetrate  all  sorts 
of  wickedness."     Thus  Juvenal,  speaking  of  women,  says, 


Nihil  est  audaeior  ilHs 


Deprensis,  iram  atque  animos  a  crimine  sumunt. 

Muher  saevissima  tunc  est  ^ 

Cum  stimulos  animo  pudor  admovet. 

collige,  quod  vindicta 

Nemo  magis  gaudet  quam  foemina. 

But  of  the  five  abovementioned  brothers  and  sons  of  earl 
Milo,  the  youngest  but  one,  and  the  last  in  the  inheritance, 
was  the  most  remarkable  for  his  inhumanity  ;  he  persecuted 
David  II.,  bishop  of  St.  David's,  to  such  a  degree,  by  attack- 
ing his  possessions,  lands,  and  vassals,  that  he  was  compelled 
to  retire  as  an  exile  from  the  district  of  Brecheinoc  into 
England,  or  to  some  other  parts  of  his  diocese.  Meanwhile, 
Mahel,  being  hospitably  entertained  by  Walter  de  Clifford,^ 
in  the  castle  of  Brendlais,^  the  house  was  by  accident  burned 
down,  and  he  received  a  mortal  blow  by  a  stone  falling  from 
the  principal  tower  on  his  head :  upon  which  he  instantly 
dispatched  messengers  to  recal  the  bishop,  and  exclaimed 

^  Walter  de  Chfford.  The  first  of  this  ancient  family  was  called 
Ponce  ;  he  had  issue  three  sons,  Walter,  Drogo  or  Dru,  and  Richard.  The 
Conqueror's  survey  takes  notice  of  the  two  former,  but  from  Richard 
the  genealogical  line  is  preserved,  who,  being  called  Richard  de  Pwns, 
obtained,  as  a  gift  from  king  Henry  I  ,  the  cantref  Bychan,  or  little 
hundred,  and  the  castle  of  Llandovery,  in  Wales  ;  he  left  three  sons, 
Simon,  Walter,  and  Richard.  The  Walter  de  Clifford  here  mentioned 
was  father  to  the  celebrated  Fair  Rosamond,  the  favourite  of  king  Henry 
II. ;  and  was  succeeded  by  his  eldest  son,  Walter,  who  married  Mar- 
garet, daughter  to  Llewelyn,  prince  of  Wales,  and  widow  of  John  de 
Braose. 

2  Brendlais,  or  Brynllys,  is  a  small  village  on  the  road  between  Breck- 
nock and  Hay,  where  a  stately  round  tower  marks  the  site  of  the  an- 
ciwQt  castle  of  the  Cliffords,  in  which  the  tyrant  Mahel  lost  his  Ufe. 


848  THE   ITINEBAET   THROUGH   WALES. 

with  a  lamentable  voice,  "  O,  my  father  and  high  priest,  your 
eaint  has  taken  most  cruel  vengeance  of  me,  not  waiting  the 
conversion  of  a  sinner,  but  hastening  his  death  and  over- 
throw." Having  often  repeated  similar  expressions,  and 
bitterly  lamented  his  situation,  he  thus  ended  his  tyranny 
and  life  together ;  the  first  year  of  his  government  not 
having  elapsed. 

A  powerful  and  noble  personage,  by  name  Brachanus,* 

^  An  ancient  manuscript  entitled    "  Cognacio  Brychan  nnde  Bre- 
cheynawc  dicta  est,  pars  Demetise  South- Wallise,"  in  the  Cottonian 
Library,    gives   an   account  of  this  prince  and  his  family.     We   are 
told  that  he  was   the  son  of  Awlach  Mac-Gormuc,  an  Irish  prince, 
by  Marchell,  daughter  of  Tydor,  regulus  of  G-arthmathrin.     In  the 
Cambrian  Biography  he  is  said  to  have  been  the  son  of  Aulach,  son  of 
Cormach  Mac  Carbery,  one  of  the  supreme  kings  of  Ireland ;  that  at 
an  early  age  he  was  brought  to  Britain   by  his  parents,  who  took  up 
their  residence  at  Benne,  (the  Graer,  upon  the  banks  of  the  river  Isgeer, 
near  Brecknock) ,  and  having  spent  his  youth  in  mihtary  exercises,  suc- 
ceeded, upon  the  death  of  his  father,  about  the  beginning  of  the  fifth 
century,  to  the  government  of  G-arthmathrin,  the  name  of  which  he 
changed  to  Brycheinog,  which  it  stiU  bears  amongst  the  Welsh  inhabi- 
tants, Brecon  and  Brecknock  being  merely  the  corruption  by  EngHsh 
settlers.     Of  Brychan  and  his  family  the  monkish  writers  abound  in 
superstitious  anecdotes.     He  was   a  distinguished  character  in  the  his- 
tory of  Wales,  as  being  the  father  of  a  very  numerous  issue,  which 
came  to  be  styled  one  of  the  three  holy  famihes  of  Britain ;  for  nearly 
all  his  children  embraced  a  rehgious  life,  and  were  the  founders  of  seve- 
ral churches.     Besides  his  daughters,  the  Cambrian  Biography  enume- 
rates the  names  of  twenty -four  sons,  viz.    Cynog,   Cledwyn,   Dingad, 
Arthen,  Cyvlevyr,  Rhain,  Dyvnan,  Gerwyn,  Cadog,  Mathaiam,  Pasgen, 
Nefai,   Pabiali,  Llechau,   Cynbryd,  Cynvran,  Hychan,  Dyvrig,  Cynin, 
Dogvan,  Ehawin,  Rhun,  Cledog,  Caian.     St.  Almedha,  though  not  in- 
cluded in  the  ordinary  lists,  is  said  to  have  been  a  daughter  of  Bry- 
chan, and  sister  to  St.  Canoe,  and  to  have  borne  the  name  of  Elevetha, 
Aled,  or  Elyned,  latinized  into  Almedha.     The  Welsh  genealogists  say, 
that  she  suffered  martyrdom  on  a  hill  near  Brecknock,  where  a  chapel 
was  erected  to  her  memory ;  and  William  of  Worcester  says  she  was 
buried  at  Usk.     Mr.  Hugh  Thomas  (who  wrote  an  essay  towards  the 
history  of  Brecknockshire  in  the  year  1698)  speaks  of  the  chapel  aa 
standing,  though  unroofed  and  useless,  in  his  time ;  the  people  there- 
abouts call  it  St.  Tayled.     It  was  situated  on  an  eminence,  about  a  mile 
to  the  eastward  of  Brecknock,  and  about  half  a  mile  from  a  farm-house, 
formerly  the  mansion  and  residence  of  the  Aubreys,  lords  of  the  manor 
of  Slwch,  which  lordship  was  bestowed  upon  Sir  Reginald  Awbrey  by 
Bernard  Newmarch,  in  the  rei?n  of  WiDiam  Rufus.     Some  smaU  ves- 
tiges of  this  building  may  stiU  be  traced,  and  an  aged  yew  tree,  with  Q 
well  at  its  foot,  marks  the  site  near  whicli  the  chapel  formerly  stood» 


ANNIVEESAEY    OF    ST.    J.LMEDHA. 

r&8  in  ancient  times  the  ruler  of  the  province  of  Brechei- 
noc,  and  from  him  it  derived  this  name.  The  British  histo- 
ries testify  that  he  had  four-and-twenty  daughters,  all  of 
whom,  dedicated  from  their  youth  to  religious  observances, 
happily  ended  their  lives  in  sanctity.  There  are  many 
churches  in  "Wales  distinguished  by  their  names,  one  of 
which,  situated  on  the  summit  of  a  hill,  near  Brecheinoc, 
and  not  far  from  the  castle  of  Aberhodni,  is  called  the 
church  of  St.  Almedha,  after  the  name  of  the  holy  virgin, 
who,  refusing  there  the  hand  of  an  earthly  spouse,  married 
the  Eternal  King,  and  triumphed  in  a  happy  martyrdom ;  to 
whose  honour  a  solemn  feast  is  annually  held  in  the  begin- 
ning of  August,  and  attended  by  a  large  concourse  of 
people  from  a  considerable  distance,  when  those  persons 
who  labour  under  various  diseases,  through  the  merits  of 
the  Blessed  Virgin,  received  their  wished-for  health.  The 
circumstances  which  occur  at  every  anniversary  appear  to 
me  remarkable.  You  may  see  men  or  girls,  now  in  the 
church,  now  in  the  churchyard,  now  in  the  dance,  which  is 
led  round  the  churchyard  with  a  song,  on  a  sudden  falling 
on  the  ground  as  in  a  trance,  then  jumping  up  as  in  a  frenzy, 
and  representing  with  their  hands  and  feet,  before  the 
people,  whatever  work  they  have  unlawfully  done  on  feast 
days  ;  you  may  see  one  man  put  his  hand  to  the  plough, 
and  another,  as  it  were,  goad  on  the  oxen,  mitigating  their 
sense  of  labour,  by  the  usual  rude  song  :^  one  man  imitating 
the  profession  of  a  shoemaker ;  another,  that  of  a  tanner. 
Now  you  may  see  a  girl  with  a  distaff,  drawing  out  the 
thread,  and  winding  it  again  on  the  spindle  ;  another  walk- 
ing, and  arranging  the  threads  for  the  web  ;  another,  as  it 
were,  throwing  the  shuttle,  and  seeming  to  weave.  On  being 
brought  into  the  church,  and  led  up  to  the  altar  with  their 
oblations,  you  will  be  astonished  to  see  them  suddenly 
awakened,  and  coming  to  themselves.  Thus,  by  the  divine 
mercy,  which  rejoices  in  the  conversion,  not  in  the  death,  of 
sinners,  many  persons  from  the  conviction  of  their  senses, 
are  on  these  feast  days  corrected  and  amended. 

*  This  same  habit  is  still  (in  Sir  Richard  Colt  Hoare's  time)  used  by 
the  Welsh  ploughboys  ;  they  have  a  sort  of  chaunt,  consisting  of  half 
or  even  quarter  notes,  which  is  sung  to  the  oxen  at  plough :  the  country- 
men vulgarly  supposing  that  the  beasts  are  consoled  to  work  more  ro^ 
gularly  and  patiently  by  such  a  lullaby. 


350  THE    ITINERARY    THEOUGH    WALES. 

This  country  sufficiently  abounds  with  grain,  and  if  there 
is  any  deficiency,  it  is  amply  supplied  from  the  neighbour- 
ing parts  of  England  ;  it  is  well  stored  with  pastures,  woods, 
and  wild  and  domestic  animals.  E-iver-fish  are  plentiful,  sup- 
plied by  the  Usk  on  one  side,  and  by  the  Wye  on  the  other  ; 
each  of  them  produces  salmon  and  trout ;  but  the  Wye 
abounds  most  with  the  former,  the  Usk  with  the  latter. 
The  salmon  of  the  Wye  are  in  season  durin  g  the  winter, 
those  of  the  Usk  in  summer ;  but  the  A-Vye  alone  produces 
the  fish  called  umber,^  the  praise  of  which  is  celebrated  in 
the  works  of  Ambrosius,  as  being  found  in  great  numbers 
in  the  rivers  near  Milan  ;  "  What,"  says  he,  "  is  more  beau- 
tiful to  behold,  more  agreeable  to  smell,  or  more  pleasant  to 
taste  ?"  The  famous  lake  of  Brecheinoc  supplies  the  coun- 
try with  pike,  perch,  excellent  trout,  tench,  and  eels.  A 
circumstance  concerning  this  lake,  which  happened  a  short 
time  before  our  days,  must  not  be  passed  over  in  silence. 
"  In  the  reign  of  king  Henry  I.,  Grruffydh,^  son  of  E.hys  ap 

'  The  umber,  or  grayling,  is  still  a  plentiful  and  favourite  fish  in  the 
rivers  on  the  Welsh  border. 

2  G-ruffydh  ap  Rhys  was  son  of  Rhys  ap  Theodor,  who  in  the  year 
1090  was  slain  in  battle,  not  far  from  Brecknock.  About  the  year 
1113,  "  there  was  a  talke  through  South  Wales,  of  Gruffyth,  the  sonne  of 
Rees  ap  Theodor,  who,  for  feare  of  the  king,  had  beeue  of  a  child 
brought  up  in  Ireland,  and  had  come  over  two  yeares  passed,  which 
time  he  had  spent  privilie  with  his  freends,  kinsfolks,  and  affines  ;  as 
with  Gerald,  steward  of  Penbrooke,  his  brother-in-law,  and  others. 
But  at  the  last  he  was  accused  to  tbe  king,  that  he  intended  the  king- 
dome  of  South  Wales  as  his  father  had  enjoied  it,  which  was  now  in 
the  king's  hands  ;  and  that  all  the  countrie  hoped  of  hbertie  through 
him  ;  therefore  the  king  sent  to  take  him.  But  Gryfl^yth  ap  Rees  hering 
this,  sent  to  Gruffyth  ap  Conan,  prince  of  North  Wales,  desiring  him 
of  his  aid,  and  that  he  might  remain e  safelie  within  his  countrie  ;  which 
he  granted,  and  received  him  joiouslie  for  his  father's  sake."  He  after- 
wards proved  so  troublesome  and  successful  an  antagonist,  that  the 
king  endeavoured  by  every  possible  means  to  get  him  into  his  power. 
To  GrufiFyth  ap  Conan  he  offered  "mountaines  of  gold  to  send  the  said 
Gruffyth  or  his  head  to  him."  And  at  a  subsequent  period,  he  sent  for 
Owen  ap-Cadogan,  and  said  to  him,  "  Owen,  I  have  found  thee  true  and 
faithful  imto  me,  therefore  I  desire  thee  to  take  or  kill  that  murtherer, 
Gruffyth  ap  Rees,  that  doth  so  trouble  my  loving  subjects."  But  Gruf- 
fyth escaped  all  the  snares  which  the  king  had  laid  for  him,  and  in  the 
year  1137  died  a  natural  and  honourable  death;  he  is  styled  in  the 
Welsh  chronicle,  "  the  light,  honor,  and  stale  of  South  Wales  j"  and 


LEGEND  OF  THE  LAKE  OF  BRECHErN-OC.      351 

Theodor,  held  under  the  king  one  comot,  namely,  the  fourtli 
part  of  the  cantred  of  Caoc,^  in  the  cantref  Mawr,  which, 
in  title  and  dignity,  was  esteemed  by  the  Welsh  equal  to 
the  southern  part  of  Wales,  called  Deheubarth,  that  is, 
the  right-hand  side  of  Wales.  AVhen  G-ruffydh,  on  his  re- 
turn from  the  king's  court,  passed  near  this  lake,  w^hich 
at  that  cold  season  of  the  year  was  coyered  with  water- 
fowl of  various  sorts,  being  accompanied  by  Milo,  earl 
of  Hereford,  and  lord  of  Brecheinoc,  and  Payn  Fitz- 
John,  lord  of  Ewyas,  who  were  at  that  time  secretaries 
and  privy  counsellors  to  the  king ;  earl  Milo,  wishing  to 
draw  forth  from  Grruifydh  some  discourse  concerning  his 
innate  nobility,  rather  jocularly  than  seriously  thus  ad- 
dressed him  :  "  It  is  an  ancient  saying  in  Wales,  that  if  the 
natural  prince  of  the  country,  coming  to  this  lake,  shall 
order  the  birds  to  sing,  they  will  immediately  obey  him." 
To  which  Gruffydh,  richer  in  mind  than  in  gold,  (for  though 
his  inheritance  was  diminished,  his  ambition  and  dignity 
still  remained),  answered,  "  Do  you  therefore,  who  now  hold 
the  dominion  of  this  land,  first  give  the  command ;"  but  he 
and  Payn  having  in  vain  commanded,  and  Grruffydh,  per- 
ceiving that  it  was  necessary  for  him  to  do  so  in  his  turn, 
dismounted  from  his  horse,  and  falling  on  his  knees  towards 
the  east,  as  if  he  had  been  about  to  engage  in  battle,  pros- 
trate on  the  ground,  with  his  eyes  and  hands  uplifted  to 
heaven,  poured  forth  devout  prayers  to  the  Lord :  at  length, 
rising  up,  and  signing  his  face  and  forehead  with  the  figure 
of  the  cross,  he  thus  openly  spake :  "  Almighty  God,  and 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  knowest  all  things,  declare  here  this 
day  thy  power.  If  thou  hast  caused  me  to  descend  lineally 
from  the  natural  princes  of  Wales,  I  command  these  birds 

distinguished  as  the  bravest,  the  wisest,  the  most  merciful,  liberal,  and 
just,  of  all  the  princes  of  Wales.  By  his  -wife  Gwenlhian,  the  daughter 
of  Gruffyth  ap  Conan,  he  left  a  son,  commonly  called  the  lord  Rhys, 
who  met  the  archbishop  at  Radnor,  as  is  related  in  the  first  chapter  of 
this  Itinerary. 

''  This  cantref,  which  now  bears  the  name  of  Caeo,  is  placed,  accord- 
ing to  the  ancient  divisions  of  Wales,  in  the  cantref  Eychan,  or  httle 
hundred,  and  not  in  the  Cantref  Mawr,  or  great  hundred.  A  village 
between  Llanbedr  in  Cardiganshire  and  Llandovery  in  Caermarthen- 
shire,  still  bears  the  name  of  Cynvil  Gaeo,  and,  from  its  picturesque 
■ituation  and  the  remains  of  its  mines,  which  were  probably  worked  by 
the  Romans,  deserves  the  notice  of  the  curious  traveller. 


352  THE    ITmEEAET    THUOUGH   WALES. 

in  thy  name  to  declare  it ;"  and  immediately  the  birds,  beat- 
ing the  water  with  tbeir  wings,  began  to  cry  aloud,  and  pro- 
claim him.  The  spectators  were  astonished  and  ooDfounded  ; 
and  earl  Milo  hastily  returning  with  Payn  Fitz- John  to 
court,  related  this  singular  occurrence  to  the  king,  who  ia 
said  to  have  replied,  "  By  the  death  of  Christ  (an  oath  lie 
was  accustomed  to  use),  it  is  not  a  matter  of  so  much  won- 
der; for  although  by  our  great  authority  we  commit  acta 
of  violence  and  wrong  against  these  people,  yet  they  are 
known  to  be  tbe  rightful  inheritors  of  this  land." 

The  lake  also  ^  (according  to  the  testimony  of  the  inhabit- 
ants) is  celebrated  for  its  miracles  ;  for,  as  we  have  be- 
fore observed,  it  sometimes  assumed  a  greenish  hue,  so  in 
our  days  it  has  appeared  to  be  tinged  with  red,  not  univer- 
sally, but  as  if  blood  flowed  partially  through  certain  veins 
and  small  channels.  Moreover  it  is  sometimes  seen  by  the 
inhabitants  covered  and  adorned  with  buildings,  pastures, 
gardens,  and  orchards.  In  the  winter,  when  it  is  frozen 
over,  and  the  surface  of  the  water  is  converted  into  a  shell 
of  ice,  it  emits  a  horrible  sound  resembling  the  moans  of 
many  animals  collected  together  ;  but  this,  perhaps,  maybe 
occasioned  by  the  sudden  bursting  of  the  shell,  and  the  gra- 
dual ebullition  of  the  air  through  imperceptible  channels. 
This  country  is  well  sheltered  on  every  side  (except  the 
northern)  by  high  mountains  ;  on  the  western  by  those  of 
cantref  Bachan  -^  on  the  southern,  by  that  range,  of  which 

^  The  lake  of  Brecheinoc  bears  the  several  names  of  Llyn  Savaddon, 
Brecinau-mere,  Llangorse,  and  Talyllyn  Pool,  the  two  latter  of  which 
are  derived  from  the  names  of  parishes  on  its  banks.  It  is  a  large, 
though  by  no  means  a  beautiful,  piece  of  water,  its  banks  being  low  and 
flat,  and  covered  with  rushes  and  other  aquatic  plants  to  a  considerable 
distance  from  the  shore.  Pike,  perch,  and  eels  are  the  common  fish  of 
this  water;  tench  and  trout  are  rarely,  I  believe,  (if  ever),  taken  in  it. 
The  notion  of  its  having  swallowed  up  an  ancient  city  is  not  yet 
quite  exploded  by  the  natives ;  and  some  will  even  attribute  the 
name  of  Loventium  to  it ;  which  is  with  miich  greater  certainty  fixed 
at  Llanio-isau,  between  Llanpedr  and  Tregaron,  in  Cardiganshire,  on 
the  northern  banks  of  the  river  Teivi,  where  there  are  very  considerable 
and  undoubted  remains  of  a  large  Roman  city.  The  legend  of  the 
town  at  the  bottom  of  the  lake  is  at  the  same  time  very  old. 

2  That  chain  of  mountains  which  divides  Brecknockshire  from  Caer- 
marthen shire,  over  which  the  turnpike  road  formerly  passed  from  Tre- 
eastle  to  Lla&doyery,  and  from  which  the  river  Usk  deriyee  its  source. 


SALUBEITI    OP   THE   CLIMA.T1.  353 

the  principa.  is  Cadair  Arthur,^  or  the  chair  of  Arthur,  so 
called  from  two  peaks  rising  up  in  the  form  of  a  chair,  and 
which,  from  its  lofty  situation,  is  vulgarly  ascribed  to  Arthur, 
the  most  distinguished  king  of  the  Britons,  A  spring  of  water 
rises  on  the  summit  of  this  mountain,  deep,  but  of  a  square 
shape,  like  a  well,  and  although  no  stream  runs  from  it, 
trout  are  said  to  be  sometimes  found  in  it. 

Being  thus  sheltered  on  the  south  by  high  mountains,  the 
cooler  breezes  protect  this  district  from  the  heat  of  the  sun, 
and,  by  their  natural  salubrity,  render  the  climate  most  tem- 
perate. Towards  the  east  are  the  mountains  of  Talgarth 
and  Ewyas.'     The  natives  of  these  parts,  actuated  by  con- 

•  Cadair  Arthur,  This  mountain  is  now  called,  by  way  of  eminence, 
the  Van,  or  the  height,  but  more  commonly,  by  coimtry  people,  Ban- 
nau  Brycheinog,  or  the  Brecknock  heights,  alluding  to  its  two  peaks. 
Our  author,  Giraldus,  seems  to  have  taken  his  account  of  the  spring, 
on  the  summit  of  this  mountain,  from  report,  rather  than  from  ocular 
testimony.  I  (Sir  R.  Colt  Hoare)  examined  the  summits  of  each  peak 
very  attentively,  and  could  discern  no  spring  whatever.  The  soil  is 
peaty  and  very  boggy.  On  the  declivity  of  the  southern  side  of  the 
mountain,  and  at  no  considerable  distance  from  the  summit,  is  a  spring 
of  very  fine  water,  which  my  guide  assured  me  never  failed.  On  the 
north-west  side  of  the  mountain  is  a  round  pool,  in  which  possibly 
trout  may  have  been  sometimes  found,  but,  from  the  muddy  nature  of 
its  waters,  I  do  not  tliink  it  very  probable ;  from  this  pool  issues  a 
small  brook,  wliich  falls  precipitously  down  the  sides  of  the  mountain, 
and  pursuing  its  course  through  a  narrow  and  well-wooded  valley, 
forms  a  pretty  cascade  near  a  rustic  bridge  which  traverses  it.  I  am 
rather  inclined  to  think,  that  Giraldus  confounded  in  his  account  the 
spring  and  the  pool  together. 

2  Mountains  of  Talgarth  and  Ewyas.  The  first  of  these  are  now 
styled  the  Black  Mountains,  of  which  the  Gadair  Fawr  is  the  principal, 
and  is  only  secondary  to  the  Van  in  height.  The  Black  Mountains  are 
an  extensive  range  of  hills  rising  to  the  east  of  Talgarth,  ux  the  several 
parishes  of  Talgarth,  Llaneliew,  and  Llanigorn,  in  the  county  of  Breck- 
nock, and  connected  with  the  heights  of  Ewyas.  The  most  elevated 
point  is  called  Y  Q-adair,  and,  excepting  the  Brecknock  Van  (the  Cadair 
Arthur  of  Giraldus),  is  esteemed  the  highest  moiintain  in  South  Wales. 
The  mountains  of  Ewyas  are  those  now  called  the  Hatterel  Hills,  rising 
above  the  monastery  of  Llanthoni,  and  joining  the  Black  mountains  of 
Talgarth  at  Capel  y  Ffin,  or  the  chapel  upon  the  boundary,  near  which 
the  counties  of  Hereford,  Brecknock,  and  Monmouth  form  a  point  of 
union.  But  English  writers  have  generally  confounded  all  distinction, 
calling  them  indiscriminately  the  Black  Mountains,  or  the  Hatterel 
Hills.  The  dissensions  here  alluded  to  by  our  author,  as  subsisting  be» 
fcween  the  inhabitants  of  these  neighbouring  districts,  were  perhaps  tbfl 

A   A 


354  THE   ITmEEAET   THEOTJGH   WALES. 

tinual  enmities  and  implacable  hatred,  are  perpetually  en- 
gaged in  bloody  contests.  But  we  leave  to  others  to  de- 
scribe the  great  and  enormous  excesses,  which  in  our  time 
have  been  here  committed,  with  regard  to  marriages,  di- 
vorces, and  many  other  circumstances  of  cruelty  and  op- 
pression. 

CHAPTER  III. 

EWYAS   ATfl)    LLANTHOWI. 

In  the  deep  vale  of  Ewyas,^  which  is  about  an  arrow-shot 
broad,  encircled  on  all  sides  by  lofty  mountains,  stands  the 
church  of  Saint  John  the  Baptist,  covered  with  lead,  and 
built  of  wrought  stone ;  and,  considering  the  nature  of  the 
place,  not  unhandsomely  constructed,  on  the  very  spot  where 
the  humble  chapel  of  David,  the  archbishop,  had  formerly 
stood  decorated  only  with  moss  and  ivy.  A  situation  truly 
calculated  for  religion,  and  more  adapted  to  canonical  dis- 

remains  of  those  ancient  heart-burnings,  which  subsisted  between  the 
native  princes  of  Gwentland  and  Brecheinog,  respecting  the  possession 
of  the  territories  of  Ystradwy  and  Ewyas  (the  first  comprehending  a 
part  of  the  present  hundred  of  Talgarth,  and  the  hundred  of  Crick- 
how  el,  and  the  other  extending  into  Herefordshire),  which  was  stronglj 
contested  between  them  in  long  and  bloody  wars,  but  was  at  last,  by 
the  mediation  of  Edgar  king  of  England,  conceded  to  the  former. 
Mr.  Wynne  (page  58,  edit.  1774)  quotes  an  ancient  MS.  then  existing 
at  LlandaflT,  called  Cwtta  Cyfarwdd  o  Forgannwg,  or  a  brief  history  of 
Glamorgan,  in  which  Ystradwy  and  Ewyas  are  called  the  "  two  sleeves 
of  Gwent  Vwchcoed :"  and  Mr.  Owen,  in  his  Archseology,  gives  a  copy 
of  this  document  in  the  Welsh  language. 

'  If  we  consider  the  circumstances  of  this  chapter,  it  will  appear  very 
evidently,  that  the  vale  of  Ewyas  made  no  part  of  the  actual  Itinerary. 
Our  author  having  in  his  last  chapter  noticed  the  mountains  of  Ewyas 
as  forming  a  part  of  the  boimdaries  of  Brecknockshire,  takes  the  oppor- 
tunity of  introducing  to  his  readers  the  monastery  of  Llanthoni,  which 
is  situated  in  the  vale.  He  begins  the  chapter,  "  Stat  autem  in  vaUe  de 
Ewyas  ;"  but,  by-the-bye,  in  the  vale  of  Ewyas  stands  the  monastery 
of  Llanthoni,  &c. ;  and  having  indulged  his  talent  in  a  style  equally 
picturesque  and  accurate,  adding  some  keen  reflections  on  the  monastic 
life  and  institutions,  he  mentions  his  own  dignity  of  archdeacon,  and 
residence  near  Brecknock,  and  concludes  with  these  words  :  "  Sed  ad  rem 
revertamur,"  but  now  to  our  point ;  thus  clearly  proving,  both  by  the 
beginning  and  end  of  tliis  chapter,  that  the  whole  is  a  digression  from 
their  intended  route. 


THE   A.BBET    OP   LLANTHONI.  S65 

cipline,  than  all  the  monasteries  of  the  British  isle.  It  was 
founded  by  two  hermits,  in  honour  of  the  retired  life,  far 
removed  from  the  bustle  of  mankind,  in  a  solitary  vale  watered 
by  the  river  Hodeui.  From  Hodeni  it  was  called  Lanhodeni, 
for  Lan  signifies  an  ecclesiastical  place.  This  derivation 
may  appear  far-fetched,  for  the  name  of  the  place,  in  Welsh, 
is  Nanthodeni.  [N'ant  signifies  a  running  stream,  from 
whence  this  place  is  still  called  by  the  inhabitants  Landewi 
Nanthodeni,'  or  the  church  of  Saint  David  upon  the  river 
Hodeni.  The  English  therefore  corruptly  call  it  Lanthoni, 
whereas  it  should  either  be  called  Nanthodeni,  that  is,  the 
brook  of  the  Hodeni,  or  Lanhodeni,  the  church  upon  the 
Hodeni.     Owing  to  its  mountainous  situation,  the  rains  are 

^  Landewi  Nant  Hodeni,  or  the  church  of  St.  David  on  the  Hodni, 
is  now  better  known  by  the  name  of  Llanthoni  abbey.  This  monastery 
is  situated  in  the  northern  part  of  Monmouthshire,  on  the  banks  of  the 
little  river  Hodni,  and  in  the  secluded  vale  of  Ewyas.  A  small  and 
rustic  chapel,  dedicated  to  St.  David,  at  first  occupied  the  site  of  this 
abbey ;  in  the  year  1103,  William  de  Laci,  a  Norman  knight,  having 
renounced  the  pleasui-es  of  the  world,  retired  to  this  sequestered  spot, 
where  he  was  joined  in  his  austere  profession  by  Emicius,  chaplain  to 
queen  Maude.  In  the  year  1108,  these  hermits  erected  a  mean  church 
in  the  place  of  their  hermitage,  which  was  consecrated  by  Urban,  bishop 
of  Llandaff,  and  Rameline,  bishop  of  Hereford,  and  dedicated  to  St. 
John  the  Baptist :  having  afterwards  received  very  considerable  bene- 
factions from  Hugh  de  Laci,  and  gained  the  consent  of  Anselm,  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  these  same  hermits  founded  a  magnificent  monas- 
tery for  Black  canons,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  which  they 
immediately  filled  with  forty  monks  collected  from  the  monasteries  of 
the  Holy  Trinity  in  London,  Merton  in  Surrey,  and  Colchester  in  Essex. 
Robert  de  Betun  succeeded,  but  was  removed  to  Hereford,  and  conse- 
crated bishop  of  that  see  in  June,  1131.  Robert  de  Braci  was  the 
third  prior,  during  whose  time  the  peace  and  tranquillity  of  this  religioxis 
establishment  was  so  completely  destroyed,  by  the  continual  incursions 
and  depredations  of  the  neighbouring  Welsh,  that  the  residence  became 
insiipportable  :  he  applied  to  Robert  de  Betun,  his  predecessor,  for  ad- 
vice and  relief  on  behalf  of  his  distressed  brethren,  and  by  the  advice 
and  assistance  of  that  prelate  the  monks  removed  to  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Gloucester.  The  spot  assigned  to  them  by  earl  Milo,  on  the 
intercession  of  Robert  de  Betvm,  was  called  Hyde,  and  in  the  charter, 
Castele  Mede,  and  is  situated  at  a  short  distance  from  the  city  of  Glou- 
cester, on  the  banks  of  the  river  Severn.  Here  they  built  a  church  and 
spacious  monastery,  which,  after  the  name  of  their  former  residence, 
they  called  Llanthoni ;  it  was  consecrated  A.D.  1136,  by  Simon,  bishop 
cf  Worcester,  and  Robert  Betun  bishop  of  Hereford,  and  dedic«t<*d 
to  the  Virgin  Mary. 


856  THE   ITI3«"EEAET   THROUGH    WALES. 

frequent,  the  winds  boisterous,  and  the  clouds  in  winter  al- 
most continual.  The  air,  though  heavy,  is  healthy  ;  and 
diseases  are  so  rare,  that  the  brotherhood,  when  worn  out 
by  long  toil  and  affliction  during  their  residence  with  the 
daughter,  retiring  to  this  asylum,  and  to  their  mother's'  lap, 
Boon  regain  their  long- wished- for  health.  For  as  my  Topo- 
graphical History  of  Ireland  testifies,  in  proportion  as  we 
proceed  to  the  eastward,  the  face  of  the  sky  is  more  pure 
and  subtile,  and  the  air  more  piercing  and  inclement ;  but 
as  we  draw  nearer  to  the  westward,  the  air  becomes  more 
cloudy,  but  at  the  same  time  is  more  temperate  and  healthy. 
Here  the  monks,  sitting  in  their  cloisters,  enjoying  the  fresh 
air,  when  they  happen  to  look  up  towards  the  horizon,  be- 
hold the  tops  of  the  mountains,  as  it  were,  touching  the 
heavens,  and  herds  of  wild  deer  feeding  on  their  summits : 
the  body  of  the  sun  does  not  become  visible  above  the 
heights  of  the  mountains,  even  in  a  clear  atmosphere,  till 
about  the  hour  of  prime,  or  a  little  before.'  A  place 
truly  fitted  for  contemplation,  a  happy  and  delightful  spot, 
fully  competent,  from  its  first  establishment,  to  supply  all 
its  own  wants,  had  not  the  extravagance  of  English  luxury, 
the  pride  of  a  sumptuous  table,  the  increasing  growth  of  in- 
temperance and  ingratitude,  added  to  the  negligence  of  its 
patrons  and  prelates,  reduced  it  from  freedom  to  servility ; 
and  if  the  step-daughter,  no  less  enviously  than  odiously, 
had  not  supplanted  her  mother. 

It  seems  worthy  of  remark,  that  all  the  priors  who  were 
hostile  to  this  establishment,  died  by  divine  visitation. 
William,^  who  first   despoiled  the  place  of  its  herds  and 

'  The  titles  of  mother  and  daughter  are  here  applied  to  the  mother 
church  in  Wales,  and  the  daughter  near  Gloucester. 

2  This  passage  in  the  original  text  always  appeared  to  me  obscure 
and  inexplicable  :  "  Hora  vero  diei  quasi  inter  primam  et  tertiam  super 
montium  cacumina  vix  emergens,  et  sereno  tempore,  corpus  hie  solare 
primo  conspicitur."  But  on  referring  to  the  various  MS.  copies  of 
Giraldus  in  the  British  Museum,  I  found  the  meaning  fully  solved,  by 
the  following  alteration  of  the  Latin  text :  "  Circa  primam  vel  parvun 
ante." 

3  William  of  Wycurab,  the  fourth  prior  of  Lanthoni,  succeeded  to 
Robert  de  Braci,  who  was  obliged  to  quit  the  monastery,  on  account  of 
the  hostile  molestation  it  received  from  the  Welsh.  To  him  succeeded 
Clement,  the  sub-prior,  and  to  Clement,  Roger  de  Norwich. 


EWTAS   AND   LLANTHOTTT,  357 

Storehouses,  being  deposed  by  tlie  fraternity,  forfeited  his 
right  of  sepulture  amongst  the  priors.  Clement  seemed  to 
like  this  place  of  study  and  prayer,  yet,  after  the  example  of 
Heli  the  priest,  as  he  neither  reproved  nor  restrained  his 
brethren  from  plunder  and  other  offences,  he  died  by  a  para- 
lytic stroke.  And  Roger,  who  was  more  an  enemy  to  this 
dace  than  either  of  his  predecessors,  and  openly  carried  away 
;very  thing  which  they  had  left  behind,  wholly  robbing  the 
church  of  its  books,  ornaments,  and  privileges,  was  also 
truck  with  a  paralytic  affection  long  before  his  death, 
•esigned  his  honours,  and  lingered  out  the  remainder  of  his 
lays  in  sickness. 

In  the  reign  of  king  Henry  I.,  when  the  mother  church  was 
IS  celebrated  for  her  affluence  as  for  her  sanctity  (two  quali- 
cies  which  are  seldom  found  thus  united),  the  daughter  not 
yet  being  in  existence  (and  I  sincerely  wish  she  never  had 
been  produced),  the  fame  of  so  much  religion  attracted 
hither  Roger,  bishop  of  Salisbury,^  who  was  at  that  time 
prime  minister ;  for  it  is  virtue  to  love  virtue,  even  in 
another  man,  and  a  great  proof  of  innate  goodness  to  show 
a  detestation  of  those  vices  which  hitherto  have  not  been 
avoided.  "When  he  had  reflected  with  admiration  on  the 
nature  of  the  place,  the  solitary  life  of  the  fraternity, 
living  in  canonical  obedience,  and  serving  Grod  without  a 
murmur  or  complaint,  he  returned  to  the  king,  and  related 
to  him  what  he  thought  most  worthy  of  remark  ;  and  after 
spending  the  greater  part  of  the  day  in  the  praises  of  this 
place,  he  finished  hia  panegyric  with  these  words :  "  Why 

*  Matthew  Parker  informs  us,  that  Roger  was  the  third  bishop 
of  Salisbury,  A.D.  1107 ;  and  the  following  anecdote  is  recorded  of 
him  by  that  author :  *'  It  happened  that  prince  Henry  (afterwards 
king),  when  accompanying  his  brother  William  on  some  mihtary 
expedition,  diverged  to  a  certain  church  situated  in  the  suburbs  of  the 
town  of  Caen,  in  Normandy,  in  order  to  attend  divine  service  with  his 
fellow  soldiers.  Roger,  at  this  time,  served  the  church  on  a  very  smalJ 
salary,  and  well  aware  in  what  manner  religious  ceremonies  were  relished 
by  soldiers,  he  expedited  them  with  such  celerity,  that  he  had  finished 
saying  mass,  when  some  of  his  auditors  thought  he  had  but  just  began. 
All  with  one  accord  exclaimed,  *  That  so  accommodating  a  priest  for 
soldiers  could  nowhere  be  found  ; '  upon  which,  the  prince,  in  a  jocu- 
lar manner,  encouraged  him  to  follow  his  camp,  which  he  wiDingly  did, 
and  thus  paved  his  way  to  the  great  honours  which  he  afterwards 
reoeived  from  king  Henry  I." 


358  THE    ITINEEAET    THEOUGH   WALES. 

should  I  say  more  ?  the  whole  treasure  of  the  king  and  hi« 
kingdom  would  not  be  sufficient  to  build  such  a  cloister." 
Having  held  the  minds  of  the  king  and  the  court  for  a  long 
time  in  suspense  by  this  assertion,  he  at  length  explained 
the  enigma,  by  saying  that  he  alluded  to  the  cloister  of 
mountains,  by  which  this  church  is  on  every  side  surrounded. 
But  William,  a  knight,  who  first  discovered  this  place,  and 
his  companion  Ervistus,  a  priest,  having  heard,  perhaps,  aa 
it  is  written  in  the  Fathers,  according  to  the  opinion  of 
Jerome,  "  that  the  church  of  Christ  decreased  in  virtues  as  it 
increased  in  riches,"  were  accustomed  often  devoutly  to  so- 
licit the  Lord  that  this  place  might  never  attain  great  posses- 
sions. They  were  exceedingly  concerned  when  this  religious 
foundation  began  to  be  enriched  by  its  first  lord  and  patron, 
Hugh  de  Lacy,^  and  by  the  lands  and  ecclesiastical  benefices 
conferred  upon  it  by  iDhe  bounty  of  others  of  the  faithful : 
from  their  predilection  to  poverty,  they  rejected  many  offers 
of  manors  and  churches ;  and  being  situated  in  a  wild  spot, 
they  would  not  suff'er  the  thick  and  wooded  parts  of  the 
valley  to  be  cultivated  and  levelled,  lest  they  should  be 
tempted  to  recede  from  their  heremitical  mode  of  life. 
But  whilst  the  establishment  of  the  mother  church  in- 

'  Walter  de  Laci  came  into  England  with  William  the  Conqueror, 
and  left  three  sona,  Koger,  Hugh,  and  Walter.  About  that  period, 
when  several  Norman  lords  obtained  leare  from  William  to  invade 
Wales ;  when  Eobert  Fitzhamon  had  been  successful  in  the  conquest 
of  Glamorganshire,  and  Bernard  Newmarch  in  that  of  the  lordship  of 
Brecknock  ;  Hugh  de  Laci  gained  the  adjoining  province  of  Ewya», 
and  became  afterwards  the  founder  of  the  convent  of  Llanthoni ;  his 
elder  brother,  Eobert,  held  also  four  caracutes  of  land  within  the  Umits 
of  the  castle  of  Ewyas,  which  king  WiUiam  had  bestowed  on  Walter, 
his  father  j  but  joining  in  rebellion  against  William  Eufus,  he  was 
banished  the  kingdom,  and  all  his  lands  were  given  to  his  brother  Hugh, 
who  died  without  issue.  This  great  inheritance  devolved  on  his  two 
sisters,  Emmeline,  who  had  no  children,  and  Emme,  who  took  to  hus- 
band   by  whom  she  had  a  son,  named  Gilbert,  who 

assumed  the  name  of  Laci.  From  him  descended  Hugh  de  Laci,  who, 
for  his  steady  adherence  to  king  Henry  II.  (who  was  then  at  variance 
with  his  son),  and  for  services  done  in  Ireland,  obtained  a  grant  of  the 
whole  territory  of  Meath,  with  its  appurtenances,  to  hold  for  himself 
and  his  heirs  by  the  service  of  fifty  knights*  fees,  in  as  ample  a  manner 
as  Murchard  Hugh  Melachhn  enjoyed  the  same.  He  was  murdered  in 
Ireland,  a.d.  1185,  leaving  issue  two  sons,  Walter  and  Hugh. 


THE   ABBEY   OF   LLAKTHONI.  359 

CT^wsed  daily  in  riches  and  endowments,  availing  herself  of 
the  hostile  state  of  the  country,  a  rival  daughter  sprang  up 
at  Grloucester,  under  the  protection  of  Milo,  earl  of  Here- 
ford ;  as  if  by  divine  providence,  and  through  the  merits  of 
the  saints  and  prayers  of  those  holy  men  (of  whom  two  lie 
buried  before  the  high  altar),  it  were  destined  that  the 
daughter  church  should  be  founded  in  superfluities,  whilst 
the  mother  continued  in  that  laudable  state  of  mediocrity 
which  she  had  always  affected  and  coveted.  Let  the  active 
therefore  reside  there,  the  contemplative  here ;  there  the 
pursuit  of  terrestrial  riches,  here  the  love  of  celestial  de- 
lights ;  there  let  them  enjoy  the  concourse  of  men,  here  the 
presence  of  angels ;  there  let  the  powerful  of  this  world  be 
entertained,  here  let  the  poor  of  Christ  be  relieved ;  there, 
I  say,  let  human  actions  and  declamations  be  heard,  but 
here  let  reading  and  prayers  be  heard  only  in  whispers ; 
there  let  opulence,  the  parent  and  nurse  of  vice,  increase 
with  cares,  here  let  the  virtuous  and  golden  mean  be  all- 
sufficient.  In  both  places  the  canonical  discipline  instituted 
by  Augustine,  which  is  now  distinguished  above  all  other 
orders,  is  observed ;  for  the  Benedictines,  when  their  wealth 
was  increased  by  the  fervour  of  charity,  and  multiplied  by 
the  bounty  of  the  faithful,  under  the  pretext  of  a  bad  dis- 
pensation, corrupted  by  gluttony  and  indulgence  an  order 
which  in  its  original  state  of  poverty  was  held  in  high  es- 
timation. The  Cistercian  order,  derived  from  the  former, 
at  first  deserved  praise  and  commendation  from  its  adhering 
voluntarily  to  the  original  vows  of  poverty  and  sanctity : 
until  ambition,  the  blind  mother  of  mischief,  unable  to  nx 
bounds  to  prosperity,  was  introduced  ;  for  as  Seneca  says, 
**  Too  great  happiness  makes  men  greedy,  nor  are  their  de- 
sires ever  so  temperate,  as  to  terminate  in  what  is  acquired :" 
a  step  is  made  from  great  things  to  greater,  and  men  having 
attained  what  they  did  not  expect,  form  the  most  unboucded 
hopes  ;  to  which  the  poet  Ovid  thus  alludes  : 

"  Luxuriant  animi  rebus  plerumque  eecundis, 
Nee  fkcile  eet  aequa  commoda  mente  pati ; 

And  again  : 

Creverunt  opes  et  opum  furiosa  cupido, 
Et  cum  possideant  pl-arima,  plura  petunt.'* 


86»'^  THE    ITIITEEABT    THEOrGli    WALEd. 

And  also  the  poet  Horace : 


scilicet  improbae 


Crescunt  divitise,  tamen 

CurtsB  nescio  quid  semper  abest  rei. 
Creacentem  sequitur  cura  pecuuiam 

Majorumque  fames/' 

To  which  purpose  the  poet  Lucan  says : 


-O  vitse  tuta  facultas 


Pauperis,  angustique  lares,  o  munera  liondaia 
InteUecta  Deum  V 

And  Petronius : 

Non  bibit  inter  aquas  nee  poma  fugacia  carpit 

Tantalus  infelii,  quern  sua  vota  premunt. 
Divitis  hie  magni  facies  erit,  omnia  late 

Qui  tenet,  et  sicco  concoquit  ore  famem." 

The  mountains  are  full  of  herds  and  horses,  the  woodi 
well  stored  with  swine  and  goats,  the  pastures  with  sheep, 
the  plains  with  cattle,  the  arable  fields  with  ploughs  ;  and 
although  these  things  in  very  deed  are  in  great  abundance, 
yet  each  of  them,  from  the  insatiable  nature  of  the  mind, 
seems  too  narrow  and  scanty.  Therefore  lands  are  seized, 
landmarks  removed,  boundaries  invaded,  and  the  markets 
in  consequence  abound  with  merchandise,  the  courts  of  jus- 
tice with  law-suits,  and  the  senate  with  complaints.  Con- 
cerning such  things,  we  read  in  Isaiah,  "  Woe  unto  them 
that  join  house  to  house,  that  lay  field  to  field,  till  there  be 
no  place,  that  they  be  placed  alone  in  the  midst  of  the 
earth." 

If  therefore,  the  prophet  inveighs  so  much  against  those 
who  proceed  to  the  boundaries,  what  would  he  say  to  those 
who  go  far  beyond  them  ?  Prom  these  and  other  causes, 
the  true  colour  of  religion  was  so  converted  into  the  dye  of 
falsehood,  that  manners  internally  black  assumed  a  fair 
exterior : 

**  Qui  color  albus  erat,  nunc  est  contrarius  albo." 

So  that  the  scripture  seems  to  be  fulfilled  concerning  these 
men,  "  Beware  of  false  prophets,  who  come  to  you  in  sheep's 
clothing,  but  inwardly  they  are  ravenous  wolves."     But  I 


STATE  OF  THE  MONASTIC  OEDEES.         361 

am  inclined  to  think  this  avidity  does  not  proceed  from,  any 
bad  intention.  Eor  the  monks  of  this  Order  (althougli 
themselves  most  abstemious)  incessantly  exercise,  more  than 
any  others,  the  acts  of  charity  and  beneficence  towards  the 
poor  and  strangers  ;  and  because  they  do  not  live  as  others 
upon  fixed  incomes,  but  depend  only  on  their  labour  and 
forethought  for  subsistence,  they  are  anxious  to  obtain 
lands,  farms,  and  pastures,  which  may  enable  them  to  per- 
form these  acts  of  hospitality.  However,  to  repress  and 
remove  from  this  sacred  Order  the  detestable  stigma  of  am- 
bition, I  wish  they  would  sometimes  call  to  mind  what  is 
written  in  Ecclesiasticus,  "  Whoso  bringeth  an  oflfering  of 
the  goods  of  the  poor,  doth  as  one  that  killeth  the  son  be- 
fore his  father's  eyes :"  and  also  the  sentiment  of  Gregory, 
"  A  good  use  does  not  justify  things  badly  acquired  ;"  and 
also  that  of  Ambrose,  '*  He  who  wrongfully  receives,  that 
he  may  well  dispense,  is  rather  burthened  than  assisted." 
Such  men  seem  to  say  with  the  Apostle,  "  Let  us  do  evil  that 
good  may  come."  For  it  is  written,  "  Mercy  ought  to  be  of 
Buch  a  nature  as  may  be  received,  not  rejected,  which  may 
purge  away  sins,  not  make  a  man  guilty  before  the  Lord, 
arising  from  your  own  just  labours,  not  those  of  other 
men."  Hear  what  Solomon  says  ;  "  Honour  the  Lord  from 
your  just  labours."  What  shall  they  say  who  have  seized 
upon  other  men's  possessions,  and  exercised  charity  ?  "  O 
Lord !  in  thy  name  we  have  done  charitable  deeds,  we  have 
fed  the  poor,  clothed  the  naked,  and  hospitably  received  the 
stranger :"  to  whom  the  Lord  will  answer ;  "  Ye  speak  of 
what  ye  have  given  away,  but  speak  not  of  the  rapine  ye 
have  committed ;  ye  relate  concerning  those  ye  have  fed, 
and  remember  not  those  ye  have  killed."  I  have  judged  it 
proper  to  insert  in  this  place  an  instance  of  an  answer  which 
Richard,  king  of  the  English,  made  to  Fulke,'  a  good  and  holy 

^  This  anecdote  is  thus  related  by  the  historian  Hollinshed  :  *  Hereof 
it  came  on  a  time,  whiles  the  king  sojourned  in  France  about  hi* 
warres,  which  he  held  against  king  Philip,  there  came  unto  him  a  French 
priest,  whose  name  was  Fulco,  who  required  the  king  in  anywise  to  put 
from  him  three  abominable  daughters  which  he  had,  and  to  bestow  them 
in  marriage,  least  God  punished  him  for  them.  *  Thou  liest,  hypo- 
crite (said  the  king),  to  thy  verie  face ;  for  all  the  world  knoweth  I 
have  not  one  daughter.'  '  I  lie  no^  (said  the  priest),  for  thou  hast  three 
daughters  :  one  of  them  is  called  Pride,  the  second  Covetousnesa,  and 


862  THE  ITDTEEi-ET   THEOTTOH   WALES. 

man,  by  whom  God  in  these  our  days  has  wrought  many  signs 
in  the  kingdom  of  France.  This  man  had  among  other  things 
said  to  the  king ;  "  Tou  have  three  daughters,  namely,  Pride, 
Luxury,  and  Avarice ;  and  as  long  as  they  shall  remain  with 
you,  you  can  never  expect  to  be  in  favour  with  Q-od."  To 
which  the  king,  after  a  short  pause,  replied  :  "  I  have  already 
given  away  those  daughters  in  marriage :  Pride  to  the  Tem- 
plars, Luxury  to  the  Black  Monks,  and  Avarice  to  the 
W  hite."  It  is  a  remarkable  circumstance,  or  rather  a  miracle, 
concerning  Lanthoni,  that,  although  it  is  on  every  side  sur- 
rounded by  lofty  mountains,  not  stony  or  rocky,  but  of  a 
soft  nature,  and  covered  with  grass,  Parian  stones  are 
frequently  found  there,  and  are  called  free-stones,  from  the 
facility  with  which  they  admit  of  being  cut  and  polished  ; 
and  with  these  the  church  is  beautifully  built.  It  is  also 
wonderful,  that  when,  after  a  diligent  search,  all  the  stones 
have  been  removed  from  the  mountains,  and  no  more  can  be 
found,  upon  another  search,  a  few  days  afterwards,  they  re- 
appear in  greater  quantities  to  those  who  seek  them.  With 
respect  to  the  two  Orders,  the  Cluniac  and  the  Cistercian, 
this  may  be  relied  upon ;  although  the  latter  are  possessed 
of  fine  buildings,  with  ample  revenues  and  estates,  they  will 
soon  be  reduced  to  poverty  and  destruction.  To  the  former, 
on  the  contrary,  you  would  allot  a  barren  desert  and  a  soli- 
tary wood  ;  yet  in  a  few  years  you  will  find  them  in  posses- 
sion of  sumptuous  churches  and  houses,  and  encircled  with 
an  extensive  property.  The  difference  of  manners  (as  it 
appears  to  me)  causes  this  contrast.  For  as  without  mean- 
ing offence  to  either  party,  I  shall  speak  the  truth,  the  one 
feels  the  benefits  of  sobriety,  parsimony,  and  prudence, 
whilst  the  other  suffers  from  the  bad  effects  of  gluttony  and 

the  third  Lecherie.'  With  that  the  king  called  to  him  his  lords  and 
barons,  and  said  to  them,  •  This  hypocrite  heere  hath  required  me  to 
marry  awaie  my  three  daughters,  which  (as  he  saith)  I  cherish,  nourish, 
foster,  and  mainteine  ;  that  is  to  say,  Pride,  Covetuousness,  and  Leche- 
rie :  and  now  that  I  have  found  out  necessarie  and  fit  husbands  for 
them,  I  will  do  it  with  effect,  and  seeke  no  more  delaies.  I  therefore 
bequeath  my  pride  to  the  high-minded  Templars  and  Hospitallers, 
which  are  as  proud  as  Lucifer  himselfe  ;  my  covetousness  I  give  unto 
the  White  Monks,  otherwise  called  of  the  Cisteaux  Ordei-,  for  they  covet 
the  divell  and  all ;  my  lecherie  I  commit  to  the  prelats  of  the  church, 
who  have  most  pleasiure  and  felicitie  therein.' " 


STATE  OF  THE  MONASTIC  OEDEES.        3C3 

mtemperance  :  the  one,  like  bees,  collect  their  stores  into  a 
heap,  and  unanimously  agree  in  the  disposal  of  one  well- 
regulated  purse  ;  the  others  pillage  and  divert  to  improper 
uses  the  largesses  which  have  been  collected  by  divine  as- 
sistance, and  by  the  bounties  of  the  faithful ;  and  whilst  each 
individual  consults  solely  his  own  interest,  the  welfare  of 
the  community  suffers ;  since,  as  Sallust  observes,  "  Small 
things  increase  by  concord,  and  the  greatest  are  wasted  by 
discord."  Besides,  sooner  than  lessen  the  number  of  one 
of  the  thirteen  or  fourteen  dishes  which  they  claim  by  right 
of  custom,  or  even  in  a  time  of  scarcity  or  famine  recede 
in  the  smallest  degree  from  their  accustomed  good  fare,  they 
would  suffer  the  richest  lands  and  the  best  buildings  of  the 
monastery  to  become  a  prey  to  usury,  and  the  numerous 
poor  to  perish  before  their  gates. 

The  first  of  these  Orders,  at  a  time  when  there  was  a 
deficiency  in  grain,  with  a  laudable  charity,  not  only  gave 
away  their  flocks  and  herds,  but  resigned  to  the  poor  one 
of  the  two  dishes  with  which  they  were  always  contented. 
But  in  these  our  days,  in  order  to  remove  this  stain,  it  is  or- 
dained by  the  Cistercians,  "  That  in  future  neither  farms  nor 
pastures  shall  be  purchased  ;  and  that  they  shall  be  satisfied 
with  those  alone  which  have  been  freely  and  unconditionally 
bestowed  upon  them."  This  Order,  therefore,  being  satis- 
fied more  than  any  other  with  humble  mediocrity,  and,  if  not 
wholly,  yet  in  a  great  degree  checking  their  ambition ;  and 
though  placed  in  a  worldly  situation,  yet  avoiding,  as  much 
as  possible,  its  contagion ;  neither  notorious  for  gluttony  op 
drunkenness,  for  luxury  or  lust ;  is  fearful  and  ashamed  of 
incurring  public  scandal,  as  will  be  more  fully  explained  in 
the  book  we  mean  (by  the  grace  of  God)  to  write  concern- 
ing the  ecclesiastical  Orders. 

In  these  temperate  regions  I  have  obtained  (according  to 
the  usual  expression)  a  place  of  dignity,  but  no  great  omen 
of  future  pomp  or  riches  ;  and  possessing  a  small  residence* 
near  the  castle  of  Brecheinoc,  well  adapted  to  literary  pur- 
suits, and  to  the  contemplation  of  eternity,  I  envy  not  the 

*  This  email  residence  of  the  archdeacon  was  at  Landeu,  a  place 
which  has  been  described  before  :  the  author  takes  this  opportunity  of 
faulting  at  his  love  of  Hterature,  rehgion,  and  mediocrity. 


364  THE   ITINEEAET   THROUGH   WALES. 

riches  of  Croesus ;  bappy  and  contented  with  that  medio- 
crity, which  I  prize  far  beyond  all  the  perishable  and  transi- 
tory things  of  this  world.    But  let  us  return  to  our  subject. 

CHAPTEE  IV. 

THE   JOUENET   BY    COED    OBOlfO    AND    ABEROEVEITNT. 

Feom  thence'  we  proceeded  through  the  narrow,  woody 
tract  called  the  bad  pass  of  Coed  Grono,  leaving  the  noble 

*  The  last  chapter  having  been  wholly  digressive,  and  the  greater  part 
of  the  preceding  one  taken  up  with  general  description,  anecdote,  and 
legendary  tales,  we  must  now  recur  back  to  Brecknock,  or  rather,  per- 
haps, to  our  author's  residence  at  Landeu,  where  we  left  him,  and  from 
thence  accompany  him  to  Abergavenny.  But  in  doing  this  (as  he  did 
not  pursue  the  common  route  through  the  vale  of  Usk,  and  by  Crick- 
howel,)  we  should  undoubtedly  have  met  with  much  difficulty,  had  not 
his  own  accuracy  of  description  pointed  out  to  us  such  certain  marks 
as  might  enable  posterity,  even  at  this  remote  period,  to  retrace  his 
footsteps  through  a  wild,  intricate,  and  desert  tract  of  country,  and  but 
little  known  even  to  the  present  generation.  It  appears  then,  that 
from  Landeu  he  took  the  road  to  Talgarth,  a  small  village  a  little  to  the 
Bouth  east  of  the  road  leading  from  Brecknock  to  Hay  ;  from  whence, 
climbing  up  a  steep  ascent,  now  called  Rhiw  Cwnstabl,  or  the  Consta- 
ble's ascent,  he  crossed  the  black  mountains  of  LlaneUew  to  the  source 
of  the  Gronwy-fawr  river,  which  rises  in  that  eminence,  and  piu-sues 
its  rapid  course  into  the  Vale  of  Usk.  From  thence  a  rugged  and  un- 
even track  descends  suddenly  into  a  narrow  glen,  formed  by  the  torrent 
of  the  Gronwy,  between  steep,  impending  mountains  ;  bleak  and  barren 
for  the  first  four  or  five  miles,  but  afterwards  wooded  to  the  very  mar- 
gin of  the  stream.  A  high  ledge  of  grassy  hills  on  the  left  hand,  of 
which  the  principal  is  called  the  Bal,  or  Y  Fal,  divides  this  formidable 
pass  (the  "  Malus  passus"  of  G-iraldus)  from  the  vale  of  Ewyas,  in 
which  stands  the  noble  monastery  of  Llanthoni,  *'  montibus  suis  inclu- 
Bum,"  encircled  by  its  mountains.  The  road  at  length  emerging  from 
this  deep  recess  of  Coed  G-rono,  or  Cwm  Gronwy,  the  vale  of  tlie  river 
Gronwy,  crosses  the  river  at  a  place  called  Pont  Escob,  or  the  Bishop's 
bridge,  probably  so  called  from  this  very  circumstance  of  its  having 
been  now  passed  by  the  archbishop  and  his  suite,  and  is  continued 
through  the  forest  of  Moel,  till  it  joins  the  Hereford  road,  about  two 
miles  from  Abergavenny.  This  formidable  defile  is  at  least  nine  miles 
in  length.  It  may,  perhaps,  occasion  some  surprise,  that  our  most  reve- 
rend missionary  and  his  coadjutor,  quitting  that  easy  and  direct  road 
which  would  have  led  them  shortly  to  their  wished-for  point,  should 
thus  have  sought  for  difficulties  in  a  wild,  uninteresting  district ;  but  if 
we  consider  the  Quixotic  errand  they  were  engaged  in,  and  the  ardent 
enthusiasm  which  animated  their  minds,  we  shall  easUy  discern  the  mo- 
tives.    Their  object  (as  our  author  tells  us)  was  to  preach  the  crusade 


MUBDEH    or    EICHAED    DE    CLAEE.  365 

monaetery  of  Lanthoni,  inclosed  by  its  mountaiDs,  on  our 
left.  The  castle  of  Abergevenni  is  so  called  from  its  situa- 
tion at  the  confluence  of  the  river  Gevenni  with  the  Usk. 

It  happened  a  short  time  after  the  death  of  king  Henry  I., 
that  Eichard  de  Clare,  a  nobleman  of  high  birth,  and  lord  of 
Cardiganshire,  passed  this  way  on  his  journey  from  England 
into  Wales,  accompanied  by  Brian  de  "Wallingford,  lord  of 
this  province,  and  many  men-at-arms.  At  the  passage  of 
Coed  Grono,'  and  at  the  entrance  into  the  wood,  he  dismissed 

in  Wales,  and  rouse  the  spirit  oi  the  natives  to  support  the  banners  of 
the  cross.  To  do  this  effectually,  it  was  necessary  to  explore  the  inte- 
rior of  the  country,  where  that  oppressed  people  still  maintained  a  kind 
of  poor  independence  among  the  deep  recesses  of  the  mountains,  from 
whence  it  would  be  difficult  even  for  Norman  rapacity  to  dislodge  them. 
The  lower  lands  along  the  banks  of  the  Usk  were  held  exclusively  by 
Normans,  or  the  immediate  vassals  of  De  Braose,  the  great  lord  of 
Brecon  and  Abergavenny,  whom  it  was  consequently  unnecessary  to  ad- 
dress, as  from  the  nature  of  their  tenures  they  were  bound  to  follow  the 
standard  of  their  leader,  and  who,  perhaps,  would  have  been  little 
pleased  with  such  interference. 

'  In  the  vale  of  the  Gronwy,  about  a  mile  above  Pont  Escob,  there 
ia  a  wood  called  Coed  Dias,  or  the  Wood  of  Revenge.  Here  again,  by 
tlie  modern  name  of  the  place,  we  are  enabled  to  fix  the  very  spot  on 
which  Richard  de  Clare  was  murdered.  The  Welsh  Clironicle  informs 
us,  tliat  '■  in  1135,  Morgan  ap  Owen,  a  man  of  considerable  quality  and 
estate  in  Wales,  remembering  the  wrong  and  injury  he  had  received  at 
the  hands  of  Richard  Fitz- Gilbert,  slew  him,  together  with  his  son 
Gilbert."  A  personal  revenge  then  appears  to  have  been  the  motive. 
The  name  Coed  Dias,  or  the  Wood  of  Revenge,  the  deep  retirement  and 
situation  of  the  place,  close  upon  the  banks  of  the  Gronwy,  and  only 
one  mile  from  the  forest  of  Moel,  the  territory  of  Brien  Fitz-Count, 
lord  of  Abergavenny,  who,  we  are  told,  accompanied  Richard  de  Clare 
to  the  extent  of  his  own  demesne,  xisque  ad  passum  predictum  ;  all  con- 
spire to  point  out  this  very  wood  as  the  lurking-place  from  whence  the 
assassins  issued  to  complete  their  barbarous  purpose.  It  appears  that 
the  aforesaid  Richard  de  Clare,  or  Fitz-Gilbert,  was  proceeding  on  his 
journey  from  Nether- Went  into  Cardiganshire,  where  he  had  two  castles, 
one  upon  the  banks  of  the  river  Ystwyth,  a  mUe  from  Llanbadarn 
Vawr,  the  other  on  the  river  Teivy  at  Cardigan  ;  his  nearest  road  to  the 
former  would  be  through  Talgarth  and  Builth  ;  and  if  he  really  had 
property  on  the  Gronwy,  (for  Dugdale  says  his  father  Gilbert  possessed 
the  whole  of  Nether-Went  and  one  half  of  Grun,  in  Wales,  which  may 
hflve  been  a  territory  bordering  on  the  river  Gronwy),  he  would  natu- 
rally give  that  road  the  preference,  as  expecting  safety  amongst  his  own 
tenants.  The  river  Gronwy  Fawr  has  ita  source  in  the  parish  of  Llane- 
liew,  from  whence,  descending  rapidly  through  a  deep  and  rocky  chan- 
nel, it  pursues  a  southward  course,  varying  occasionally  to  humour  the 


866  THE    ITINEEAET    THROUGH    WALES. 

him  and  his  attendants,  though  much  against  their  will,  and 
proceeded  on  his  journey  unarmed ;  from  too  great  a  pre- 
position of  the  mountains  j  and  divides  Brecknockshire  from  the  ad- 
joining counties  of  Hereford  and  Monmouth,  near  the  junction  of  the 
parishes  of  Llanbedr  and  Patriss-shew,  vulgarly  called  Patricio,  (a 
small  church  in  a  very  retired  situation,  remarkable  for  a  curious  rood- 
loft  admirably  carved  in  wood),  from  whence  it  takes  a  sudden  turn  to 
the  westward,  and  is  soon  afterwards  joined  by  another  stream,  called  the 
Gronwy-fechan,  or  smaller  Gronwy.  The  first  of  this  great  family, 
Richard  de  Clare,  was  the  eldest  son  of  Gislebert,  surnamed  Crispin, 
earl  of  Brion,  in  Normandy.  This  Richard  Fitz-Gilbert  came  into 
England  with  William  the  Conqueror,  and  received  from  him  great  ad- 
vancement in  honour  and  possessions.  On  the  death  of  the  Conqueror, 
favouring  the  cause  of  Robert  Curthose,  he  rebelled  against  WiUiam 
Rufus,  but  when  that  king  appeared  in  arms  before  his  castle  at  Tun- 
bridge,  he  submitted ;  after  which,  adhering  to  Rufus  against  Robert, 
in  1091,  he  was  taken  prisoner,  and  shortly  after  the  death  of  king 
Henry  I.,  was  assassinated,  on  his  journey  through  Wales,  in  the  man- 
ner already  related.  Brian  de  WaUiiigford,  called  also  Brien  Fiti- 
Cotmt,  and  Brien  de  Insula,  received  from  his  uncle,  Hamelin,  eldest 
Bon  of  Dru  de  Ealadun,  the  castle  of  Abergavenny  and  all  Over- Went, 
and  in  right  of  his  wife,  Maude,  sole  daughter  and  heiress  to  Robert 
D'Oiley,  and  widow  of  Milo  Crispin,  the  whole  honour  of  Wallingford  ; 
king  Henry  I.  giving  her  unto  him  in  marriage  with  all  that  her  in- 
heritance, after  the  death  of  her  said  husband  Milo.  He  was  strongly 
attached  to  the  cause  of  the  empress  Maude,  received  her  in  his  castle 
at  Wallingford,  assisted  her  in  the  siege  of  Winchester,  and  attended 
her  in  her  flight  to  the  castle  at  Devizes.  Having  two  sons,  both  lepers, 
he  placed  them  in  the  priory  at  Abergavenny,  to  which  he  made  consi- 
derable benefactions  ;  then,  seized  with  the  religious  frenzy  of  the  times, 
he  took  the  cross,  and  went  to  Jerusalem,  bequeathing  his  possessions 
in  Over- Went,  and  the  castle  of  Grosmont,  to  his  kinsman  Walter, 
constable  of  England,  who,  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  I.,  held  also  the 
castles  of  Glocester  and  Hereford  ;  and  was  buried  in  the  chapter-house 
of  Lanthoni  abbey  in  Wales.  This  Walter  had  one  son,  named  Milo, 
whom  I  have  mentioned  in  a  former  note.  Milo  had  five  sons,  to  the 
second  of  whom,  named  Henry,  Walter,  during  the  hfetime  of  hia 
father,  gave  up  the  castle  of  Abergavenny,  and  all  Wentland,  which  he 
held  quietly  in  possession  during  the  lives  of  his  grandfather  Walter, 
and  his  brothers  Milo  and  Roger  ;  which  last  dying  without  issue,  Henry 
succeeded  as  next  heir  to  his  property,  but  was  afterwards  unfortu- 
nately killed  by  one  of  his  satellites  named  Senell,  son  of  Donwald, 
near  Arnald's  castle  in  Upper  Went,  and  was  buried  in  the  abbey  of 
Llantlioni  in  Wales.  His  other  three  brothers  dying  without  issue,  his 
inheritance  devolved  on  his  sisters  ;  Margaret,  who  married  Humphrey 
de  Bohun,  and  received  as  her  portion  the  earldom  of  Hereford  ;  Ber- 
tha, married  to  Phihp  de  Braose,  lord  of  Builth,  had  the  lordship  of 
Brecknock,  Upper-Went,  and  Gower;  and  Lucia,  who  married  Her* 


ABEEGATENNY.  367 

lumption  of  security,  preceded  only  by  a  minstrel  and  a 
linger,  one  accompanying  the  other  on  the  fiddle.^  The 
"Welsh  awaiting  his  arrival,  with  Jorwerth,  brother  of  Morgan 
of  Caerleon,  at  their  head,  and  others  of  his  family,  rushed 
upon  him  unawares  from  the  thickets,  and  killed  him  and 
many  of  his  followers.  Thus  it  appears  how  incautious  and 
neglectful  of  itself  is  too  great  presumption ;  for  fear  teaches 
foresight  and  caution  in  prosperity,  but  audacity  is  precipi- 
tate, and  inconsiderate  rashness  will  not  await  the  advice  of 
the  leader. 

A  sermon  having  been  delivered  at  Abergevenni,*  and 

bert,  son  of  Henry  Fitz-Herbert,  chamberlain  to  king  Henry  I.,  and 
afterwards  to  king  Stephen,  received  the  forest  of  Dean  and  other  lands 
in  England. 

'  Tibicinem  praevium  habens  etpraecentorem  cantilensB  notulis  alter* 
natim  in  fidicula  respondentera. 

*  Abergavenny. — Hamelin,  son  of  Dru  de  Baladun,  who  came  into 
England  with  William  the  Conqueror,  was  the  first  lord  of  Over- Went, 
and  built  a  castle  at  Abergavenny,  on  the  same  spot  where,  according 
to  ancient  tradition,  a  giant  called  Agros  had  erected  a  fortress.  He 
died  in  the  reign  of  William  Rufus,  and  was  buried  in  the  priory  which 
he  had  founded  at  Abergavenny  ;  having  no  issue,  he  gave  the  aforesaid 
castle  and  lands  to  Brian  de  Insula,  his  nephew,  by  his  sister  Lucia, 
The  enormous  excesses  mentioned  by  Giraldus,  as  having  been  per- 
petrated in  this  part  of  Wales  during  his  time,  seem  to  allude  to  a 
transaction  that  took  place  in  the  castle  of  Abergavenny,  in  the  year 
1176,  which  is  thus  related  by  two  historians,  Matthew  Paris  and  Hol- 
linshed.  "  a.d.  1176,  The  same  yeare,  William  de  Breause  having  got 
a  great  number  of  Welshmen  into  the  castle  of  Abergavennie,  under  a 
colourable  pretext  of  communication,  proposed  this  ordinance  to  be  re- 
ceived of  them  with  a  corporaU  oth,  '  That  no  traveller  by  the  waie 
amongst  them  should  beare  any  bow,  or  other  unlawful  weapon,'  which 
oth,  when  they  refused  to  take,  because  they  would  not  stand  to  that 
ordinance,  he  condemned  them  all  to  death.  This  deceit  he  used  to- 
wards them,  in  revenge  of  the  death  of  his  uncle  Henrie  of  Hereford, 
whom  upon  Easter-even  before  they  had  through  treason  murthered, 
and  were  now  acquited  with  the  like  againe." — Hollinshed,  torn.  ii.  p.  95. 
Our  author,  ever  ready  to  inveigh  against  king  Henry,  says  in  one  place 
that  he  was  the  true  author,  and  Hanulph  Poer  the  instrument,  "  vere 
auctor  extiterat  Anglorum  rex  Henricus  Secundus,  vicecomes  autem 
Herefordise  Ranulphus  Poerius  machinator ; "  and  he  afterwards  en- 
deavours to  exculpate  William  de  Braose,  by  alleging  that  he  was  not 
the  author  of  the  crime,  but  the  executioner,  '*  non  auctor  sceleris,  sed 
executor."  De  Braose  was,  in  fact,  a  desperate  and  a  bad  man,  capable 
of  committing,  under  a  mask  of  piety,  the  most  atrocious  actions. 
Whoever  reads  the  sad  tragedy  which  we  have  just  related,  must  d©- 


368  THE   ITIIfEEAET   TFEOUGH   WALES. 

many  persons  converted  to  the  cross,  a  certain  nobleman  <yf 
those  parts,  named  Arthenua,  came  to  the  archbishop,  who 
was  proceeding  towards  the  castle  of  Usk,  and  humbly 
begged  pardon  for  having  neglected  to  meet  him  sooner. 
Being  questioned  whether  he  would  take  the  cross,  he  re- 
plied, "  That  ought  not  be  done  without  the  advice  of  his 
friends."  The  archbishop  then  asked  him,  "  Are  you  not 
going  to  consult  your  wife?"  To  which  he  modestly  answered, 
with  a  downcast  look,  "  When  the  work  of  a  man  is  to  be 
undertaken,  the  counsel  of  a  woman  ought  not  to  be  asked  ;" 
and  instantly  received  the  cross  from  the  archbishop. 

We  leave  to  others  the  relation  of  those  frequent  and 
cruel  excesses  which  in  our  times  have  arisen  amongst  the 
inhabitants  of  these  parts,  against  the  governors  of  castlea, 
and  the  vindictive  retaliations  of  the  governors  against  the 
natives.  But  king  Henry  II.  was  the  true  author,  and 
E-anulf  Poer,  sheriff  of  Hereford,  the  instrument,  of  the 
enormous  cruelties  and  slaughter  perpetrated  here  in  our 
days,  which  I  thought  better  to  omit,  lest  bad  men  should 
be  induced  to  follow  the  example ;  for  although  temporary 
advantage  may  seem  to  arise  from  a  base  cause,  yet,  by  the 
balance  of  a  righteous  judge,  the  punishment  of  wickedness 
may  be  deferred,  though  not  totally  avoided,  according  to 
the  words  of  the  poet, — 

"  Non  habet  eventus  sordida  prseda  bonos." 

For  after  seven  years  of  peace  and  tranquillity,  the  sons  and 
grandsons  of  the  deceased,  having  attained  the  age  of  man- 
hood, took  advantage  of  the  absence  of  the  lord  of  the  castle 
(Abergevenni),  and,  burning  with  revenge,  concealed  them- 
selves, with  no  inconsiderable  force,  during  the  night,  within 
the  woody  foss  of  the  castle.  One  of  them,  named  Sisillus  (Sit- 
sylt)  son  of  Eudaf,  on  the  preceding  day  said  rather  jocularly 
to  the  constable,  "  Here  will  we  enter  this  night,"  pointing 

precatethe  smiling  villain,  who,  in  the  very  moment  when  he  pretended 
friendship,  could  be  guUty  of  so  horrid  an  assassination  Of  no  less 
atrocity  was  the  murder  of  Trahem  Fychan,  which  he  committed  at 
Brecknock  ;  and  yet  Giraldus  has  condescended  to  become  bis  panegy- 
rist, commending  his  piety,  and  labouring  to  transfer  that  load  of 
infamy  which  degraded  his  character  to  the  slioulders  of  his  sovereign, 
whom  he  styles  the  prime  author  of  the  mischief. 


DEATH    OF    EANITLP   POEE. 

out  to  him  a  certain  angle  in  the  wall  where  it  seemed  the 
lowest ;  but  since 

" Ridendo  dicere  verum 

Quisvetat?" 

and 

" fas  est  et  ab  hoste  doceri," 

the  constable  and  his  household  watched  all  night  under 
arms,  till  at  length,  worn  out  by  fatigue,  they  all  retired  to 
rest  on  the  appearance  of  daylight,  upon  which  the  enemy 
attacked  the  walls  with  scaling-ladders,  at  the  very  place 
that  had  been  pointed  out.  The  constable  and  his  wife 
were  taken  prisoners,  with  many  others,  a  few  persons  only 
escaping,  who  had  sheltered  themselves  in  the  principal 
tower.  "With  the  exception  of  this  stronghold,  the  enemy 
violently  seized  and  burned  everything ;  and  thus,  by  the 
righteous  judgment  of  Grod,  the  crime  was  punished  in  the 
very  place  where  it  had  been  committed.  A  short  tima 
after  the  takiug  of  this  fortress,  when  the  aforesaid  sheriff 
was  building  a  castle  at  Landinegat,'  near  Monmouth,  with 
the  assistance  of  the  army  he  had  brought  from  Hereford,  he 
was  attacked  at  break  of  day,  when 

"  Tythoni  croceum  linquens  Aurora  cubile" 
was  only  beginning  to  divest  herself  of  the  shades  of  night, 
by  the  young  men  from  Grwent  and  the  adjacent  parts,  with 
the  descendants  of  those  who  had  been  slain.  Though  aware 
of  this  premeditated  attack,  and  prepared  and  drawn  up  in 
battle  array,  they  were  nevertheless  repulsed  within  their 
intrenchments,  and  the  sheriff,  together  with  nine  of  the 
chief  men  of  Hereford,  and  many  others,  were  pierced  to 
death  with  lances.  It  is  remarkable  that,  although  Kanulf, 
besides  many  other  mortal  wounds,  had  the  veins  and  arte- 
ries of  his  neck,  and  his  windpipe  separated  with  a  sword, 
he  made  signs  for  a  priest,  and  from  the  merit  of  his  past 
life,  and  the  honour  and  veneration  he  had  shewn  to 
those  chosen  into  the  sacred  order  of  Christ,  he  was  con- 
fessed, and  received  extreme  unction  before  he  died.  And, 
indeed,  many  events  concur  to  prove  that,  as  those  who 
respect  the  priesthood,  in  their  latter  daya  enjoy  the  satia- 

*  Landinegat,  or  the  church  of  St.  Dingad,  is  now  better  known  by 
the  name  of  Diagatstow,  or  Dynastow,  a  village  near  Monmouth. 

B   B 


370 


THE    ITINERAEX    THEOIJGH   WALES. 


faction  of  friendly  intercourse,  so  do  their  revilers  and 
accusers  often  die  without  that  consolation.  William  de 
Braose,  who  was  not  the  author  of  the  crime  we  have  preferred 
passing  over  in  silence,  but  the  executioner,  or,  rather,  not 
the  preventer  of  its  execution,  while  the  murderous  bands 
were  fulfilling  the  orders  they  had  received,  was  precipitated 
into  a  deep  foss,  and  being  taken  by  the  enemy,  was  drawn 
forth,  and  only  by  a  sudden  effort  of  his  own  troops,  and  by 
divine  mercy,  escaped  uninjured.  Hence  it  is  evident  that 
lie  who  offends  in  a  less  degree,  and  unwillingly  permits  a 
thing  to  be  done,  is  more  mildly  punished  than  he  who 
adds  counsel  and  authority  to  his  act.  Thus,  in  the  suffer- 
ings of  Christ,  Judas  was  punished  with  hanging,  the  Jews 
with  destruction  and  banishment,  and  Pilate  with  exile. 
But  the  end  of  the  king,  who  assented  to  and  ordered  thia 
treachery,  sufficiently  manifested  in  what  manner,  on  account 
of  this  and  many  other  enormities  he  had  committed  (as  in 
the  book  "  De  Instructione  Principis,"  by  God's  guidance, 
we  shall  set  forth),  he  began  with  accumulated  ignominy^ 
sorrow,  and  confusion,  to  suffer  punishment  in  this  world. 

It  seems  worthy  of  remark,  that  the  people  of  what  ia 
called  Yenta^  are  more  accustomed  to  war,  more  famous  for 
valour,  and  more  expert  in  archery,  than  those  of  any  other 
part  of  "Wales.  The  following  examples  prove  the  truth  of 
this  assertion.  In  the  last  capture  of  the  aforesaid  castle, 
which  happened  in  our  days,  two  soldiers  passing  over  a 
bridge  to  take  refuge  in  a  tower  built  on  a  mound  of  earth, 
the  Welsh,  taking  them  in  the  rear,  penetrated  with  their 
arrows  the  oaken  portal  of  the  tower,  which  was  four  fingers 
thick  ;  in  memory  of  which  circumstance,  the  arrows  were 
preserved  in  the  gate.  William  de  Braose  also  testifies  that 
one  of  his  soldiers,  in  a  conflict  with  the  Welsh,  was  wounded 
by  an  arrow,  which  passed  through  his  thigh  and  the  armour 
with  which  it  was  cased  on  both  sides,  and,  through  that  part 

*  Leland  divides  this  district  into  Low,  Middle,  and  High  Yente- 
land,  extending  from  Chepstow  to  Newport  on  one  side,  and  to  Aber- 
gayenny  on  the  other ;  the  latter  of  which,  he  says,  "  maketh  the 
cumpace  of  Hye  Venteland."  He  adds,  "The  soyle  of  al  Yenteland  is 
of  a  darke  reddische  yerth  ful  of  slaty  stones,  and  other  greater  of  the 
same  color.  The  countrey  is  also  sumwhat  montaynetis,  and  Welle 
replenishid  with  woodes,  also  very  fertyle  of  come,  but  men  there  study 
more  to  pastures,  the  which  be  well  inclosed." — Lelandy  Itin.  tom.  v.  p.  6. 
Ancient  Gwentland  is  now  comprised  within  the  county  of  Monmoutki 


^  TJSK  AND   CAEELEOK.  371 

of  the  saddle  whicli  is  called  the  alva,  mortally  wounded  the 
horse.  Another  soldier  had  his  hip,  equally  sheathed  in 
armour,  penetrated  by  an  arrow  quite  to  the  saddle,  and  on 
turning  his  horse  round,  received  a  similar  wound  on  the  op- 
posite hip,  which  fixed  him  on  both  sides  to  his  seat.  What 
more  could  be  expected  from  a  balista?  Yet  the  bows  used  by 
this  people  are  not  made  of  horn,  ivory,  or  yew,  but  of  wild 
elm ;  unpolished,  rude,  and  uncouth,  but  stout ;  not  calcu- 
lated to  shoot  an  arrow  to  a  great  distance,  but  to  inflict  very 
severe  wounds  in  close  fight. 

But  let  us  again  return  to  our  Itinerary. 

CHAPTER  y. 

OF  THE  PEOGEESS  BY  THE  CASTLE  OF  USK  AND  THE  TO"WN" 
OF  CAERLEON. 

At  the  castle  of  Usk,'  a  multitude  of  persons  influenced  by 
the  archbishop's  sermon,  and  by  the  exhortations  of  the  good 
and  worthy  William  bishop  of  Landaf,-  who  faithfully  ac- 
companied us  through  his  diocese,  were  signed  with  the 
cross  ;  Alexander  archdeacon  of  Bangor^  acting  as  inter- 
preter to  the  Welsh.  It  is  remarkable  that  many  of  the 
most  notorious  murderers,  thieves,  and  robbers  of  the  neigh- 
bourhood were  here  converted,  to  the  astonishment  of  the 
spectators.  Passing  from  thence  through  Caerleon,  and  leav- 
ing far  on  our  left  hand  the  castle  of  Monmouth,  and  the 
noble  forest  of  Dean,^  situated  on  the  other  side  of  the  Wye 

*  Usk,  a  small  town,  prettily  situated  on  a  river  of  the  same  name, 
over  which  tliere  is  a  long  and  picturesque  bridge  of  stone.  The  Roman 
station  of  Burrium  is  supposed  to  have  stood  near  the  site  of  the  pre- 
sent town.  There  are  still  the  remains  of  a  large  castle  on  an  eminence, 
which  overlooks  the  town,  and  of  a  priory,  adjoining  to  the  parish 
church. 

^  William  de  Salso  Marisco,  who  succeeded  to  the  bishopric  of  LlandafF, 
A.D.  1185,  and  presided  over  that  see  during  the  time  of  Baldwin's 
visitation,  in  1188. 

2  Alexander  was  the  fourth  archdeacon  of  the  see  of  Bangor. 

^  The  forest  of  Dean  is  situated  in  the  westerly  part  of  Gloucester- 
shire, between  the  rivers  Severn  and  Wye.  It  contains  about  thirty 
thousand  acres,  the  soil  of  which  is  a  deep  clay,  adapted  to  the  growth 
of  oak.  It  was  formerly  so  thick  with  trees,  and  so  very  dark  and  ter- 
rible by  reason  of  its  shades  and  cross-ways,  that  it  rendered  the  in- 
habitants barbarous,  and  emboldened  them  to  commit  many  outrages. 
In  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.,  they  so  annoyed  the  inhabitants  of  tbfl 

B  b2 


S72  THE   ITlTfTEEAET   THEOrGH   WALES. 

and  on  this  side  the  Severn,  and  which  amply  supplies  Glotl» 
cester  with  iron  and  venison,  we  spent  the  night  at  Newport, 
having  crossed  the  river  Usk  three  times.^  Caerleon^  means 
the  city  of  Legions,  Caer,  in  the  British  language,  signifying 
a  city  or  camp,  for  there  the  Eoman  legions,  sent  into  this 
island,  were  accustomed  to  winter, and  from  this  circumstance 
it  was  styled  the  city  of  legions.  This  city  was  of  undoubted 
antiquity,  and  handsomely  built  of  masonry,  with  courses  of 
bricks,  by  the  E-omans.  Many  vestiges  of  its  former  splen- 
dour may  yet  be  seen ;  immense  palaces,  formerly  ornamented 
with  gilded  roofs,  in  imitation  of  Roman  magnificence,  in- 
asmuch as  they  were  first  raised  by  the  Roman  princes,  and 
embellished  with  splendid  buildings  ;  a  tower  of  prodigious 
size,  remarkable  hot  baths,  relics  of  temples,  and  theatres, 
all  inclosed  within  fine  walls,  parts  of  which  remain  standing. 
Tou  will  find  on  all  sides,  both  within  and  without  the  cir- 
cuit of  the  walls,  subterraneous  buildings,  aqueducts,  under- 
ground passages  ;  and  what  I  think  worthy  of  notice,  stoves 
contrived  with  wonderful  art,  to  transmit  the  heat  insensibly 
through  narrow  tubes  passing  up  the  side  walls. 

Julius  and  Aaron,^  after  suffering  martyrdom,  were  buried 

banks  of  the  Severn  with  their  robberies,  that  an  act  of  parliament  was 
made  on  purpose  to  restrain  them.  The  oak  of  this  forest  was  so  con- 
siderable, that  it  is  said  to  have  been  part  of  the  instructions  of  the 
Spanish  Armada  to  destroy  its  timber.  Since  the  discovery  of  iron  ore 
on  this  spot,  the  woods  have  largely  disappeared. 

'  Once  at  Usk,  then  at  Caerleon,  and  afterwards  on  entering  the  town 
of  Newport. 

2  This  city  was  the  station  of  the  Legio  Secunda  Augusta,  and  still 
retains  many  vestiges  of  Roman  antiquity  :  the  extent  of  its  stone  walls 
may  yet  be  traced  :  the  grounds  within  its  precincts  are  thickly  strewed 
with  Roman  bricks,  and  many  Latin  inscriptions  have  been  dug  up. 
The  situation  of  this  ancient  city,  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Usk,  is 
elegantly  expressed  by  an  anonymous  writer,  quoted  by  archbishop 
Usher,  whom  he  calls  Pseudo-Gildas — 

"  Nobilis  urbs,  et  amoena  situ,  quam  labilis  Osca 
Irrigat ." 

3  According  to  what  is  probably  a  mere  legend,  when  the  perse- 
cution of  the  emperor  Dioclesian  raged  against  the  Christians  through- 
out the  whole  empire,  a  certain  man,  named  Amphibalus,  illustrious 
for  his  virtues  and  learning,  having  crossed  the  sea,  came  to  Verula- 
mium,  in  Britain,  and,  entering  that  city,  craved  admittance,  as  a 
stranger,  to  the  house  of  Albanus,  who  was  one  of  the  citizens,  eminent 
for  his  quality  and  noble  parentage,  and  who  received  the  holy  man  with 
great  kindness  and  liberaUty,  and,  by  his  persuasions,  became  a  con- 


CAEELEOF.  373 

in  tliis  city,  and  had  each  a  ctnircli  dedicated  to  him.  After 
Albanus  and  Amphibalus,  they  were  esteemed  the  chief  pro- 
tomartyrs  of  Britannia  Major.  In  ancient  times  there  were 
three  fine  churches  in  this  city  :  one  dedicated  to  Julius  the 
martyr,  graced  with  a  choir  of  nuns ;  another  to  Aaron,  his 
associate,  and  ennobled  with  an  order  of  canons ;  and  the 
third  distinguished  as  the  metropolitan  of  Wales.  Amphi- 
balus, the  instructor  of  Albanus  in  the  true  faith,  was  born 
in  this  place.  This  city  is  well  situated  on  the  river  Usk, 
navigable  to  the  sea,  and  adorned  with  woods  and  meadows. 
The  Roman  ambassadors  here  received  their  audience  at  the 
court  of  the  great  king  Arthur ;  and  here  also,  the  arch- 
bishop Dubricius  ceded  his  honours  to  David  of  Menevia. 
the  metropolitan  see  being  translated  from  this  place  to 
MeneWa,  according  to  the  prophecy  of  Merlin  Ambrosius ; 
"  Menevia  pallio  urbis  Legionum  induetur."  "  Menevia 
shall  be  invested  with  the  pall  of  the  city  of  Legions," 

Not  far  hence  is  a  rocky  eminence,  impending  over  the 
jSevern,  called  by  the  English  Gouldcliffe,'  or  golden  rock, 
because  from  the  reflections  of  the  sun's  rays  it  assumes  a 
bright  golden  colour : 

"  Nee  mihi  de  facili  fieri  persuasio  posset, 
Quod  frustra  tantum  dederit  natura  nito  rem 
Saxis,  quodque  suo  ftierit  flos  hie  sine  fructu." 

Nor  can  I  be  easily  persuaded  that  nature  hath  given  such 
splendour  to  the  rocks  in  vain,  and  that  this  flower  should 

vert  to  Christianity.  Anxious,  however,  for  the  safety  of  his  guest,  Al- 
banus exhorted  him  to  depart  from  Verulam,  and  as  a  disguise  gave 
him  his  own  miUtary  vestment,  woven  with  gold,  taking  in  exehange 
that  of  Amphibalus,  called  a  earacalla.  But  this  liberal  and  friendly 
conduct  proved  fatal  to  Albanus  ;  for  he  was  seized  by  order  of  the 
Roman  judge,  confined  in  prison,  scourged,  and  led  to  execution,  at 
which  perilous  moment  he  is  said  to  have  converted  his  executioner, 
one  Heraclius,  a  soldier,  who,  throwing  away  his  sword,  cast  himself  at 
the  feet  of  the  holy  man,  and  humbly  begged  his  pardon.  Amphibalus 
having  made  his  escape  from  Verulam,  proceeded  towards  Wales,  but 
was  soon  overtaken,  bound  with  cords,  and  driven  barefooted  back  to 
Verulam,  where  he  was  stripped  of  his  garments,  tied  to  a  stake,  and 
put  to  death  in  a  manner  too  barbarous  to  relate. 

^  G-ouldcliffe,  or  Groldcliff,  is  situated  a  few  miles  S.E.  of  Newport,  on 

the  banks  of  the  Severn.    In  the  year  1113,  Robert  de  Candos  founded 

and  endowed  the  church  of  Groldclive,  and,  by  the  advice  of  king  Henry 

I.,  gave  it  to  the  abbey  of  Bee,  in  Normandy  ;  its  reUgious  establishment 

^-«nisist^d  of  a  prior  and  twelve  monks  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict. 


374!  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOUGH   WALES. 

be  without  fruit,  if  any  one  would  take  the  pains  to  pene- 
trate deeply  into  the  bowels  of  the  earth  ;  if  any  one,  I  say, 
would  extract  honey  from  the  rock,  and  oil  from  the  stone. 
Indeed  many  riches  of  nature  lie  concealed  through  inatten- 
tion, which  the  diligence  of  posterity  will  bring  to  light ;  for, 
as  necessity  first  taught  the  ancients  to  discover  the  con- 
veniences of  life,  so  industry,  and  a  greater  acuteness  of 
intellect,  have  laid  open  many  things  to  the  moderns ;  as  the 
poet  says,  assigning  two  causes  for  these  discoveries, 

** labor  omnia  vincit 

Improbus,  et  duris  urgens  in  rebus  egestas.** 

It  is  worthy  of  observation,  that  there  lived  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  this  City  of  Legions,  in  our  time,  a  "Welshman 
named  Melerius,  who,  under  the  following  circumstances,  ac- 
quired the  knowledge  of  future  and  occult  events.  Having, 
on  a  certain  night,  namely  that  of  Palm  Sunday,  met  a  damsel 
whom  he  had  long  loved,  in  a  pleasant  and  convenient  place, 
while  he  was  indulging  in  her  embraces,  suddenly,  instead 
of  a  beautiful  girl,  he  found  in  his  arms  a  hairy,  rough, 
and  hideous  creature,  the  sight  of  which  deprived  him  of 
his  senses,  and  he  became  mad.  After  remaining  many  years 
in  this  condition,  he  was  restored  to  health  in  the  church 
of  St.  David's,  through  the  merits  of  its  saints.  But 
having  always  an  extraordinary  familiarity  with  unclean 
spirits,  by  seeing  them,  knowing  them,  talking  with  them, 
and  calling  each  by  his  proper  name,  he  was  enabled,  through 
their  assistance,  to  foretel  future  events.  He  was,  indeed, 
often  deceived  (as  they  are)  with  respect  to  circumstances 
at  a  great  distance  of  time  or  place,  but  was  less  mistaken 
in  affairs  which  were  likely  to  happen  nearer,  or  within  the 
space  of  a  year.  The  spirits  appeared  to  him  usually  on 
foot,  equipped  as  hunters,  with  horns  suspended  from  their 
necks,  and  truly  as  hunters,  not  of  animals,  but  of  souls.  He 
particularly  met  them  near  monasteries  and  monastic  cells  ; 
for  where  rebellion  exists,  there  is  the  greatest  need  of 
armies  and  strength.  He  knew  when  any  one  spoke  falsely 
in  his  presence,  for  he  saw  the  devil,  as  it  were,  leaping 
and  exulting  upon  the  tongue  of  the  liar.  If  he  looked 
on  a  book  faultily  or  falsely  written,  or  containing  a  false 
passage,  although  wholly  illiterate,  he  would  point  out  the 
place  with  his  finger.     Being  questioned  how  he  could  gain 


MELEEIITS   THE   SOOTHSATEE.  375 

■uch  knowledge,  he  said  that  he  was  directed  by  the  demon's 
finger  to  the  place.  In  the  same  manner,  entering  into  the 
dormitory  of  a  monastery,  he  indicated  the  bed  of  any  monk 
not  sincerely  devoted  to  religion.  He  said,  that  the  spirit 
of  gluttony  and  surfeit  was  in  every  respect  sordid  ;  but  that 
the  spirit  of  luxury  and  lust  was  more  beautiful  than  others 
in  appearance,  though  in  fact  most  foul.  If  the  evil 
spirits  oppressed  him  too  much,  the  Grospel  of  St.  John  was 
placed  on  his  bosom,  when,  like  birds,  they  immediately 
vanished ;  but  when  that  book  was  removed,  and  the  History 
of  the  Britons,  by  Geoffrey  Arthur,  was  substituted  iu  its 
place,  they  instantly  reappeared  in  greater  numbers,  and  re- 
mained a  longer  time  than  usual  on  his  body  and  on  the  book. 
It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  Barnabas  placed  the  Gospel 
of  St.  Matthew  upon  sick  persons,  and  they  were  healed ; 
from  which,  as  well  as  from  the  foregoing  circumstance,  it 
appears  how  great  a  dignity  and  reverence  is  due  to  the 
sacred  books  of  the  gospel,  and  with  what  danger  and 
risk  of  damnation  every  one  who  swears  falsely  by  them, 
deviates  from  the  paths  of  truth.  The  fall  of  Enoch, 
abbot  of  Strata  Marcella,'  too  well  known  in  Wales, 
was  revealed  to  many  the  day  after  it  happened,  by  Mele- 
rius,  who,  being  asked  how  he  knew  this  circumstance,  said, 
that  a  demon  came  to  him  disguised  as  a  hunter,  and,  ex- 
ulting in  the  prospect  of  such  a  victory,  foretold  the  ruin 
of  the  abbot,  and  explained  in  what  manner  he  would  make 
him  run  away  with  a  nun  from  the  monastery.  The  end  in 
view  was  probably  the  humiliation  and  correction  of  the 
abbot,  as  was  proved  from  his  shortly  returning  home  so 
humbled  and  amended,  that  he  scarcely  could  be  said  to 
have  erred.  Seneca  says,  "  He  falls  not  badly,  who  rises 
stronger  from  his  fall."     Peter  was  more  strenuous  after 

^  The  Cistercian  abbey  here  alluded  to  was  known  by  the  several 
names  of  Ystrat  Marchel,  Strata  Marcella,  Alba  domus  de  Strat-mar- 
gel,  Vallis  Crueis,  or  Pola,  and  was  situated  between  Guilsfield  and 
Welshpool,  in  Montgomeryshire.  Authors  differ  in  opinion  about 
its  original  founder.  Leland  attributes  it  to  Owen  Cyveilioc,  prince 
of  Powys,  and  Dugdale  to  Madoc,  the  son  of  Grruffydh,  giving  for  his 
authority  the  original  grants  and  endowments  of  this  abbey.  Accord- 
ing to  Tanner,  about  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  king  Edward  III., 
the  Welsh  monks  were  removed  from  hence  into  English  abbeys,  and 
English  monks  were  placed  here,  and  the  abbey  was  made  subject  to 
the  visitation  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Buildwas,  in  Shropshire. 


376  THE  ITINERARY    TTHEOITGH   "WALES. 

his  denial  of  Christ,  and  Paul  after  being  stoned ;  since, 
where  sin  abounds,  there  will  grace  also  superabound. 
Mary  Magdalen  was  strengthened  after  her  frailty.  He 
secretly  revealed  to  Conan,  the  good  and  religious  abbot  of 
Alba-domus,  his  opinion  of  a  certain  woman  whom  he  had 
seen ;  upon  which  the  holy  man  confessed,  with  tears  in  his 
eyes,  his  predilection  for  her,  and  received  from  three 
priests  the  discipline  of  incontinence.  !Por  as  that  long  and 
experienced  subtle  enemy,  by  arguing  from  certain  conjec- 
tural signs,  may  foretel  future  by  past  events,  so  by  insi- 
dious treachery  and  contrivance,  added  to  exterior  appear- 
ances, he  may  sometimes  be  able  to  discover  the  interior 
workings  of  the  mind. 

At  the  same  time  there  was  in  Lower  Gwent  a  demon 
incubus,  who,  from  his  love  for  a  certain  young  woman,  and 
frequenting  the  place  where  she  lived,  often  conversed  with 
men,  and  frequently  discovered  hidden  things  and  future 
events.  Melerius  being  interrogated  concerning  him,  said 
he  knew  him  well,  and  mentioned  his  name.  He  affirmed 
that  unclean  spirits  conversed  with  mankind  before  war, 
or  any  great  internal  disturbance,  which  was  shortly 
afterwards  proved,  by  the  destruction  of  the  province 
by  Howel,  son  of  Jorwerth  of  Caerleon.  At  the  same 
time,  when  king  Henry  II.,  having  taken  the  king  of 
Scotland  prisoner,  had  restored  peace  to  his  kingdom, 
Howel,  fearful  of  the  royal  revenge  for  the  war  he  had 
waged,  was  relieved  from  his  difficulties  by  these  comfort- 
able words  of  Melerius  :  "  Fear  not,"  says  he,  "  Howel,  the 
wrath  of  the  king,  since  he  must  go  into  other  parts.  An 
important  city  which  he  possesses  beyond  sea  is  now  be- 
sieged by  the  king  of  France,  on  which  account  he  will 
postpone  every  other  business,  and  hasten  thither  with  all 
possible  expedition."  Three  days  afterwards,  Howel  re- 
ceived advice  that  this  event  had  really  come  to  pass,  owing 
to  the  siege  of  the  city  of  Eouen.  He  forewarned  also 
Howel  of  the  betraying  of  his  castle  at  Usk,  a  long  time 
before  it  happened,  and  informed  him  that  he  should  be 
wounded,  but  not  mortally ;  and  that  he  should  escape 
alive  from  the  town.  In  this  alone  he  was  deceived,  for  he 
soon  after  died  of  the  same  wound.  Thus  does  that  arch- 
enemy favour  his  friends  for  a  time,  and  thus  does  he  at 
Ifist  reward  them. 


sirccEssruL  preaching  at  newpobt.  377 

In  all  tliese  singular  events  it  appears  to  me  most  won- 
derful that  he  saw  those  spirits  so  plainly  with  his  carnal 
eyes,  because  spirits  cannot  be  discerned  by  the  eyes  of  mor- 
tals, unless  they  assume  a  corporeal  substance  ;  but  if  in 
order  to  be  seen  they  had  assumed  such  a  substance,  how 
could  they  remain  unperceived  by  other  persons  who  were 
present  ?  Perhaps  they  were  seen  by  such  a  miraculous 
vision  as  when  king  Balthazar  saw  the  hand  of  one  writing 
on  the  wall,  "  Mane,  Techel,  Phares,"  that  is,  weighed,  num- 
bered, divided ;  who  in  the  same  night  lost  both  his  king- 
dom and  his  life.  But  Cambria  well  knows  how  in  these 
districts,  from  a  blind  desire  of  dominion,  a  total  dissolution 
of  the  endearing  ties  of  consanguinity,  and  a  bad  and  de- 

E raved    example    diffused  throughout  the   country,    good 
lith  has  been  so  shamefully  perverted  and  abused. 


CHAPTEE  YI. 

NEWPOET   AlfD    CAEEDTE. 

At  Newport,^  where  the  river  Usk,  descending  from  its 
original  source  in  Cantref  Bachan,  falls  into  the  sea,  many 
persons  were  induced  to  take  the  cross.  Having  passed 
the  river  Eemni,  we  approached  the  noble  castle  of  Caer- 
dyf,^  situated  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Taf.^     In  the  neigh- 

1  Newport  (in  the  Latin  of  Griraldus,  Novusburgus)  is  a  borough 
town,  on  the  banks  of  the  Usk,  with  the  ruins  of  an  ancient  castle. 

2  Caerdiff,  i.  e„  the  fortress  on  the  river  Taf.  About  the  year  1091, 
Robert  Fitz- Hamon,  a  Norman  chief,  and  kinsman  of  William  the 
Conqueror,  made  the  conquest  of  Glamorgan,  and  having  parcelled  out 
various  lordships  and  manors  to  each  of  the  twelve  knights  who  had 
accompanied  him,  in  reward  of  service,  he  reserved,  as  a  portion  for 
himself,  the  castle  of  Caerdiff,  where  he  resided  and  held  his  courts  of 
justice.  In  the  days  of  Griraldus,  this  castle  was  probably  in  a  high 
state  of  preservation,  as  he  calls  it  "  nobile  castrum  ;"  it  is  still  a  mas- 
sive pile  of  building,  but,  owing  to  the  alterations  made  to  render  it 
habitable  for  the  marquis  of  Bute,  it  has  lost,  in  a  great  measure,  that 
baronial  grandeur  which  so  strongly  characterized  these  ancient  build- 
ings. A  fine  specimen,  however  of  its  Norman  architecture  is  still  pre- 
served in  the  octagonal  tower,  on  the  western  side  of  the  castle. 

3  The  sources  of  the  rivers  Usk,  Remni,  and  Taf,  are  mentioned  by 
Qiraldus  in  his  Description  of  Wales,  Book  i.  chap.  5. 


378  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOTTGH   WALES. 

bourliood  of  Newport,  whicli  is  in  the  district  of  Q-wentluc,' 
there  is  a  small  stream  called  Nant  Pencarn,^  passable  only 
at  certain  fords,  not  so  much  owing  to  the  depth  of  its 
waters,  as  from  the  hollowness  of  its  channel  and  muddy- 
bottom.  The  public  road  led  formerly  to  a  ford,  called  E-yd 
Pencarn,  that  is,  the  ford  under  the  head  of  a  rock,  from 
Rhyd,  which  in  the  British  language  signifies  a  ford,  Pen, 
the  head,  and  Carn,  a  rock  ;  of  which  place  Merlin  Sylvester 
had  thus  prophesied :  "  Whenever  you  shall  see  a  mighty 
prince  with  a  freckled  face  make  an  hostile  irruption  into 
the  southern  part  of  Britain,  should  he  cross  the  ford  of 
Pencarn,  then  know  ye,  that  the  force  of  Cambria  shall  be 
brought  low."  Now  it  came  to  pass  in  our  times,  that  king 
Henry  II.  took  up  arms  against  Rhys,  the  son  of  G-ruffydh, 
and  directed  his  march  through  the  southern  part  of  "Wales 
towards  Caermardyn.     On  the  day  he  intended  to  pass  over 

'  Q-wentluc — so  called  from  Gwent,  the  name  of  the  province,  and 
llug,  open,  to  distinguish  it  from  the  upper  parts  of  Wentland,  is  an 
extensive  tract  of  flat,  marshy  ground,  reaching  from  Newport  to  the 
shores  of  the  river  Severn.  "  The  length  of  Wentllug  is  from  the 
Severn  se  to  the  lordship  of  Meridith,  that  is  to  say,  from  south  to 
northe,  about  a  xx  mile.  Where  it  is  most  brodest,  from  est  to  west,  it 
is  not  countid  by  estimation  above  8  miles,  and  in  diverse  places 
lesse.  The  soile  by  south  towards  Severn  is  sumwhat  lowe,  and  fuUe  of 
dikes  to  drene  it.  There  is  hghtly  great  plenty  of  benes,  and  in  divers 
places  it  berith  al  other  maner  of  come.  And  this  low  ground  is  from 
the  causey  or  highway  that  goit  from  Newport  to  Pont  Remny  by  south 
to  the  Severne  se.  The  north  side  of  the  same  highway  is  stille  higher 
and  higher  to  the  northe." — Leland,  /tin.  vol.  iv.  p.  33. 

2  Nant  Pencarn,  or  the  brook  of  Pencarn. — After  a  very  attentive 
examination  of  the  country  round  Newport,  by  natives  of  that  place, 
and  from  the  information  I  have  received  on  the  subject,  I  am  inclined 
to  think  that  the  river  here  alluded  to  was  the  Ebwy,  which  flows 
about  a  mile  and  a  half  south  of  Newport.  "  The  river  of  Ebouith  risith 
yn  a  montayne  of  High  Wencelande,  and  strait  cummith  into  a  vaUey, 
caullid  Diffrin  Serowy.  Ebouith  goith  into  Wisk  a  mile  and  a  half  beneth 
Newport,  and  half  a  mile  from  the  haven  mouth  of  Wiske."  (Leland.) 
At  first  it  bears  the  appearance  of  a  mountain  torrent,  but  on  approach- 
ing towards  the  marshes,  it  assumes  the  character  ascribed  to  it  by  our 
author.  Before  the  new  turnpike  road  and  bridge  were  made  across 
Tredegar  Park,  the  old  road  led  to  a  ford  lower  down  the  river,  and 
may  still  be  travelled  as  far  as  Caerdyfi";  and  was  probably  the  ford 
mentioned  in  the  text,  as  three  old  farm-houses  in  its  neighbourhood 
still  retain  the  names  of  Great  Pencarn,  Little  Pencarn,  and  Middle 
Pencarn. 


THE   rOED    OF   PENCAEN".  370 

Nant  Pentcam,  the  old  Britons  of  the  neiglibourhood 
watched  his  approach  towards  the  ford  with  the  utmost 
solicitude ;  knowing,  since  be  was  both  mighty  and  freckled, 
that  if  the  passage  of  the  destined  ford  was  accomplished, 
the  prophecy  concerning  him  would  undoubtedly  be  ful- 
filled. When  the  king  had  followed  the  road  leading  to  a 
more  modern  ford  of  the  river  (the  old  one  spoken  of  in  the 
prophecy  having  been  for  a  long  time  in  disuse),  and  was 
preparing  to  pass  over,  the  pipers  and  trumpeters,  called 
Comhiriet,  from  Mr,  long,  and  cornu,  a  horn,  began  to  sound 
their  instruments  on  the  opposite  bank,  in  honour  of  the 
king.  The  kiug's  horse,  startling  at  the  wild,  unusual  noise, 
refused  to  obey  the  spur,  and  enter  the  water ;  upon  which, 
the  king,  gathering  up  the  reins,  hastened,  in  violent  wrath, 
to  the  ancient  ford,  which  he  rapidly  passed  ;  and  the  Bri- 
tons returned  to  their  homes,  alarmed  and  dismayed  at  the 
destruction  which  seemed  to  await  them.  An  extraordinary 
circumstance  occurred  likewise  at  the  castle  of  Caerdyf. 
William  earl  of  Gloucester,  son  of  earl  Eobert,'  who,  be- 
sides that  castle,  possessed  by  hereditary  right  all  the  pro- 
vince of  Grwladvorgan,^  that  is,  the  land  of  Morgan,  had  a 

1  Robert  Fitz-Hamon,  earl  of  Astremeville,  in  Normandy,  came  into 
England  with  William  the  Conqueror ;  and,  by  the  gfit  of  William 
Kufus,  obtained  the  honour  of  Gloucester,  which  had  been  the  inhe- 
ritance of  Brictric,  a  Saxon  ;  who,  having  incurred  the  displeasure  ol 
Maude,  the  Conqueror's  wife,  by  refusing  her  in  marriage,  was  dispos- 
sessed thereof  upon  the  Normans  gaining  possession  of  England.  He 
was  wounded  with  a  spear  at  the  siege  of  Falaise,  in  Normandy,  died 
soon  afterwards,  and  was  buried,  a.d.  1102,  in  the  abbey  of  Tewkes- 
buiy,  which  he  had  founded.  Leaving  no  male  issue,  king  Henry  gave 
his  eldest  daughter,  Mabel,  or  Maude,  who,  in  her  own  right,  had  the 
whole  honour  of  Glocester,  to  his  illegitimate  son  Robert,  who  was 
advanced  to  the  earldom  of  Gloucester  by  the  king,  his  father.  He  is 
said  to  have  built  a  castle,  and  founded  a  priory  at  Bristol,  and  to 
have  erected  the  castle  at  Caerdiff.  He  died  A.D.  1147,  and  was  buried 
in  the  choir  of  the  priory  of  St.  James  at  Bristol,  under  a  tomb-stone 
of  green  jasper.  He  left  four  sons  :  William,  the  personage  here  men- 
tioned by  Giraldus,  who  succeeded  him  in  his  titles  and  honours ; 
Roger,  bishop  of  Worcester,  who  died  at  Tours  in  France,  A.r.  1179 ; 
Hamon,  who  died  at  the  siege  of  Toulouse,  A.D.  1159 ;  and  Philip. 

2  The  Coy  church  Manuscript  quoted  by  Mr.  WiUiams,  in  his  His- 
tory of  Monmouthshire,  asserts  that  Morgan,  sumamed  Mwyn-fawr,  or 
the  Gentle,  the  son  of  Athrwy  (the  celebrated  Arthur),  not  havinf 
been  elwted  to  the  chief  command  of  the  British  armies,  upou  hil 


380  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOUGH   WALES. 

dispute  with  one  of  his  dependants,  whose  name  was  Ivof 
the  Little/  being  a  man  of  short  stature,  but  of  great  con 
rage.  This  man  was,  after  the  manner  of  the  "Welsh,  owner 
of  a  tract  of  mountainous  and  woody  country,  of  the  whole, 
or  a  part  of  which,  the  earl  endeavoured  to  deprive  him. 
At  that  time  the  castle  of  Caerdyf  was  surrounded  with 
high  walls,  guarded  by  one  hundred  and  twenty  men  at- 
arms,  a  numerous  body  of  archers,  and  a  strong  watch.  The 
city  also  contained  many  stipendiary  soldiers  ;  yet,  in  defi- 
ance of  all  these  precautions  of  security,  Ivor,  in  the  dead 
of  night,  secretly  scaled  the  walls,  and,  seizing  the  count  and 
countess,  with  their  only  son,  carried  them  off  into  the  woods, 
and  did  not  release  them  until  he  had  recovered  everything 
that  had  been  unjustly  taken  from  him,  and  received  a  com- 
pensation of  additional  property  ;  for,  as  the  poet  observes, 

"  Spectandum  est  semper  ne  magna  injuria  fiat 
Fortibus  et  miseris  ;  tollas  licet  omne  quod  usquam  est 
Argenti  atque  auri,  spoliatis  arma  supersunt." 

In  this  same  tovni  of  Caerdyf,  king  Henry  II.,  on  his  re- 
turn from  Ireland,  the  first  Sunday  after  Easter,  passed  the 
night.  In  the  morning,  having  heard  mass,  he  remained  at 
his  devotions  till  every  one  had  quitted  the  chapel  of  St. 
Piranus,'^     As  he  mounted  his  horse  at  the  door,  a  man  of  a 

father's  death  retired  from  Caerleon,  and  took  up  Ms  residence  in  Grla- 
morganshire,  sometimes  at  Rhadir,  near  Cardiff,  and  at  other  times  at 
Margan ;  and  from  this  event  the  district  derived  its  name,  quasi 
Gwlad-Morgan,  the  country  of  Morgan.  Another  MS.  quoted  by  the 
same  author,  which  he  calls  the  Truman  MS.,  says  that  this  samo 
Morgan  had  a  palace  at  Margan,  and  erected  a  bishopric  there,  which 
lasted  five  generations,  and  was  then  united  to  the  see  of  Llandaff. 
"  G-lade  is  in  Welsh  a  country  or  a  land,  and  this  province  or  country 
is  often  called  Morganhog.  I  take  Moregan  to  have  the  name  of  More, 
that  is  to  say  the  sea,  unto  the  shore  whereof  it  lyeth.  The  confine  of 
Glamorgan  lyeth  thus  :  —  Remney  is  the  march  on  the  E.  side  of  it, 
Creenline,  a  littel  broke,  is  the  march  of  the  W.  part  The  Severne  se 
boundith  from  tlie  mouthe  of  Eemney  to  the  mouth  of  Cramlin.  The 
rootes  of  the  Blake  mountain  marcheth  it  by  'N ."  —  Lelatid,  Itin.,  iv.  54. 

^  Cui  nomen  Yvorus  agnomen  Modicus  erat.  Explained  in  the  mar- 
gin of  the  folio  edition  of  Giraldus  by  Yvorus  Bach, 

2  gt  piranus,  otherwise  called  St.  Kiaran,  or  l^iran,  was  an  Irish  saint, 
said  to  have  been  born  in  the  county  of  Ossory,  or  of  Cork,  about  the 
middle  of  the  fourth  century  ;  and  after  that  by  his  labours  the  Gospel 
had  made  good  progress,  he  forsook  all  worldly  things,  and  spent  the 
remainder  of  his  Ufe  in  rehgious  soUtude.    The  place  of  his  retiremeni 


Kwa  hekbt's  WAENiNa.        38f 

fair  complexion,  witli  a  round  tonsure  and  meagre  counte- 
nance, tall,  and  about  forty  years  of  age,  habited  in  a  white 
robe  falling  down  to  his  naked  feet,  thus  addressed  him  in 
the  Teutonic  tongue:  "God  hold  the,  cuing,"  which  signifies, 
"  May  Grod  protect  you,  king  ;"  and  proceeded,  in  the  same 
language,  "  Christ  and  his  Holy  Mother,  John  the  Baptist, 
and  the  Apostle  Peter  salute  thee,  and  command  thee  strictly 
to  prohibit  throughout  thy  whole  dominions  every  kind  of 
buying  or  selling  on  Sundays,  and  not  to  suffer  any  work 
to  be  done  on  those  days,  except  such  as  relates  to  the  pre- 
paration of  daily  food ;  that  due  attention  may  be  paid  to 
the  performance  of  the  divine  offices.  If  thou  dost  this,  all 
thy  undertakings  shall  be  successful,  and  thou  shalt  lead  a 
happy  life."  The  king,  in  French,  desired  Philip  de  Mer- 
cros,^  who  held  the  reins  of  his  horse,  to  ask  the  rustic  if  he 
had  dreamt  this  ?  and  when  the  soldier  explained  to  him 
the  king's  question  in  English,  he  replied  in  the  same  lan- 
guage he  had  before  used,  "  Whether  I  have  dreamt  it  or 
not,  observe  what  day  this  is  (addressing  himself  to  the 
king,  not  to  the  interpreter),  and  unless  thou  shalt  do  so, 
and  quickly  amend  thy  life,  before  the  expiration  of  one  year, 
thou  shalt  hear  such  things  concerning  what  thou  lovest 
best  in  this  world,  and  shalt  thereby  be  so  much  troubled, 
that  thy  disquietude  shall  continue  to  thy  life's  end."  The 
king,  spurring  his  horse,  proceeded  a  little  way  towards  the 
gate,  when,  stopping  suddenly,  he  ordered  his  attendants  to 
call  the  good  man  back.  The  soldier,  and  a  young  man 
named  "William,  the  only  persons  who  remained  with  the 
king,  accordingly  called  him,  and  sought  him  in  vain  in  the 
chapel,  and  in  all  the  inns  of  the  city.  The  king,  vexed  that 
he  had  not  spoken  more  to  him,  waited  alone  a  long  time, 
while  other  persons  went  in  search  of  him ;  and  when  he 
could  not  be  found,  pursued  his  journey  over  the  bridge  of 
Eemni  to  JSTewport.  The  fatal  prediction  came  to  pass 
within  the  year,  as  the  man  had  threatened  ;  for  the  king's 

was  on  the  sea-coast  of  Cornwall,  and  not  far  from  Padstow,  where,  aa 
Camden  informs  us,  there  was  a  chapel  on  the  sands  erected  to  his 
memory.  Leland  has  informed  us,  that  the  chapel  of  St.  Ferine 
at  Caerdiff,  stood  in  Shoemaker  Street. 

1  So  called  from  a  parish  of  that  name  in  Glamorganshire,  eituated 
between  Monk  Nash  and  St.  Donat's,  upon  the  Bristol  Channel, 


882  THE   ITINEKABT   THEOTTGH  WALES. 

three  sons,  Henry,  the  eldest,  and  his  brothers,  Eichard  of 
Poitou,  and  Geoffrey,  count  of  Britany,  in  tne  following 
Lent,  deserted  to  Louis  king  of  France,  which  caused  the 
king  greater  uneasiness  than  he  had  ever  before  experienced ; 
and  which,  by  the  conduct  of  some  one  of  his  sons,  was 
continued  till  the  time  of  his  decease.  This  monarch, 
through  divine  mercy  (for  God  is  more  desirous  of  the  con- 
version than  the  destruction  of  a  sinner),  received  many 
other  admonitions  and  reproofs  about  this  time,  and  shortly 
before  his  death  ;  all  of  which,  being  utterly  incorrigible,  he 
obstinately  and  obdurately  despised,  as  will  be  more  fully 
set  forth  (by  the  favour  of  Grod)  in  my  book,  "  de  Prin- 
cipis  Instruction e." 

Not  far  from  Caerdyf  is  a  small  island  situated  near  the 
shore  of  the  Severn,  called  Barri,  from  St.  Baroc,^  who  for- 
merly lived  there,  and  whose  remains  are  deposited  in  a 
chapel  overgrown  with  ivy,  having  been  transferred  to  a 
coffin.  Prom  hence  a  noble  family,  of  the  maritime  parts 
of  South  Wales,  who  owned  this  island  and  the  adjoining 
estates,  received  the  name  of  de  Barri.  It  is  remarkable 
that,  in  a  rock  near  the  entrance  of  the  island,  there  is  a 
small  cavity,  to  which,  if  the  ear  is  applied,  a  noise  is  heard 
like  that  of  smiths  at  work,  the  blowing  of  bellows,  strokes 
of  hammers,  grinding  of  tools,  and  roaring  of  furnaces ;  and 
it  might  easily  be  imagined  that  such  noises,  which  are 
continued  at  the  ebb  and  flow  of  the  tides,  were  occasioned 
by  the  influx  of  the  sea  under  the  cavities  of  the  rocks. 

1  Our  author,  in  the  life  of  St.  David,  the  archbishop,  gives  a  most 
wonderful  account  of  this  St.  Baruc,  who,  he  tells  us,  was  an  abbot 
of  Cork  5  and,  having  been  upon  a  visit  to  that  holy  prelate,  and  de- 
tained by  contrary  winds,  borrowed  his  friend's  horse,  and  rode 
across  the  sea  from  Pembrokeshire  to  the  Irish  coast.  According 
to  Cressy,  he  died  in  the  year  700,  and  was  buried  in  the  island  of  Barri, 
which  bears  his  name.  Camden  says  that  this  saint  was  a  disciple  of 
St.  Gwalchi,  who  was  buried  on  one  of  the  two  islands  in  the  Bristol 
Channel,  called  Steep  Holme  and  Flat  Holme. 

Barri  Island  is  situated  on  the  coast  of  Glamorganshire  ;  and,  accord- 
ing to  Cressy,  took  its  name  from  St.  Baruc,  the  hermit,  who  resided, 
and  was  buried  there.  The  Barrys  in  Ireland,  as  well  as  the  family  of 
Giraldus,  who  were  lords  of  it,  are  said  to  have  derived  their  names  from 
this  island.  Leland,  in  speaking  of  this  island,  says,  "  The  paa- 
Bo^e  into  Barrey  isle    at  ful  se  is  a  flite  shot  :  ver,  as  much  ae  iix» 


THE  CEUSADE  PKEACHED  AT  LLANDAFF.     388 


CHAPTEE  yil. 

THE  SEE  or  LAIfDAE  AND  MONASTERY  OF  MAEGAN,  AND  THE 
KEMAEKLABLE    THINGS    IN    THOSE    PARTS. 

On  the  following  morning,  the  business  of  the  cross  being 
publicly  proclaimed  at  Landaf,  the  English  standing  on  one 
side,  and  the  Welsh  on  the  other,  many  persons  of  each 
nation  took  the  cross,  and  we  remained  there  that  night 
with  William  bishop  of  that  place,*  a  discreet  and  good 
man.  The  word  Landaf^  signifies  the  church  situated  upon 
the  river  Taf,  and  is  now  called  the  church  of  St.  Teileau, 
formerly  bishop  of  that  see.  The  archbishop  having  cele- 
brated mass  early  in  the  morning,  before  the  high  altar  of  the 
cathedral,  we  immediately  pursued  our  journey  by  the  little 
cell  of  EwenitP  to  the  noble  Cistercian  monastery  of  Margan.* 
This  monastery,  under  the  direction  of  Conan,  a  learned 

Tamise  is  above  the  bridge.  At  low  water,  there  is  a  broken  causey  to 
go  over,  or  els  over  the  shalow  streamelet  of  Barrey -brook  on  the  sands. 
The  isle  is  about  a  mile  in  cumpace,  and  hath  very  good  corne,  grasse, 
and  sum  wood  5  the  ferme  of  it  worth  a  £10  a  yere.  There  ys  no 
dweUing  in  the  isle,  but  there  is  in  the  middle  of  it  a  fair  little  chapel 
of  St.  Barrok,  where  much  pilgrimage  was  usid."  This  little  island  is 
nearly  opposite  to  Watchet,  on  the  coast  of  Somerset,  and  is  situated 
about  ten  miles  from  Caerdiif. 
'  "William  de  Salso  Marisco. 

2  The  see  of  Llandatf  is  pretended  to  have  been  founded  by  the  Bri- 
tish king  Lucius  as  early  as  the  year  180,  but  this  can  be  only  taken  for 
a  fable.  Oulielmus  de  Salso  Marisco,  whom  our  author,  Giraldus, 
calls  "virum  bonum,  discretum,  et  honestum,"  presided  over  the  see  of 
Llandaff  at  this  time,  and  received  the  archbisliop  and  liis  attendants  on 
their  journey  through  Wales. 

3  From  LlandaiF,  our  crusaders  proceeded  towards  the  Cistercian  mo- 
nastery of  Margan,  passing  on  then*  journey  near  the  little  cell  of  Bene- 
dictines at  Ewenith,  or  Ewenny,  whose  embattled  towers  and  anti- 
quated appearance  would,  in  modern  days,  naturally  attract  the  atten- 
tion of  every  investigating  traveller  on  his  road  from  Cowbridge  to  Pyle, 
and  induce  him  to  deviate  half  a  mile  from  the  turnpike  road.  This 
religious  house  was  founded  by  Maurice  de  Londres  towards  the  middle 
of  the  twelfth  centui-y.  It  is  situated  in  a  marshy  plain  near  the  banks 
of  the  Httle  river  Ewenny,  which  abovmds  with  trout,  and  whose  waters 
never  fail.  The  present  remains  appear  to  be  those  of  the  original 
building. 

*  The  Cistercian  monastery  of  Margan,  justly  celebrated  for  the  ex- 
tensive charities  which  its  members  exercised,  was  founded  a.d.  1147,  by 
Eobert  earl  of  Gloucester,  who  died  ui  the  same  year,  and  was  buried 


•SiSi  THE  ITHTEEAET   THEOtJGH  WALES. 

and  prudent  abbot,  was  at  tliis  time  more  celebrated  for  itg 
charitable  deeds  than  any  other  of  that  order  in  Wales. 
On  this  account,  it  is  an  undoubted  fact,  that,  as  a  reward 
for  that  abundant  charity  which  the  monastery  had  always, 
in  times  of  need,  exercised  towards  strangers  and  poor  per- 
sons, in  a  season  of  approaching  famine,  their  corn  and 
provisions  were  perceptibly,  by  divine  assistance,  increased, 
like  the  widow's  cruise  of  oil  by  the  means  of  the  prophet 
Elijah.  About  the  time  of  its  foundation,  a  young  man  of 
those  parts,  by  birth  a  Welshman,  having  claimed  and  en- 
deavoured to  apply  to  his  own  use  certain  lands  which  had 
been  given  to  the  monastery,  by  the  instigation  of  the  devil 
set  on  fire  the  best  barn  belonging  to  the  monks,  which  was 
filled  with  corn ;  but,  immediately  becoming  mad,  he  ran 
about  the  country  in  a  distracted  state,  nor  ceased  raving 
until  he  was  seized  by  his  parents  and  bound.  Having 
burst  his  bonds,  and  tired  out  his  keepers,  he  came  the 
next  morning  to  the  gate  of  the  monastery,  incessantly 
howling  out  that  he  was  inwardly  burnt  by  the  influence 
of  the  monks,  and  thus  in  a  few  days  expired,  uttering 
the  most  miserable  complaints.  It  happened  also,  thab 
a  young  man  was  struck  by  another  in  the  guests'  hall ; 
but  on  the  following  day,  by  divine  vengeance,  the  aggressor 
was,  in  the  presence  of  the  fraternity,  killed  by  an  enemy, 
and  his  lifeless  body  was  laid  out  in  the  same  spot  in  the 
hall  where  the  sacred  house  had  been  violated.  In  our  time 
too,  in  a  period  of  scarcity,  while  great  multitudes  of  poor 
were  daily  crowding  before  the  gates  for  relief,  by  the  unani- 
mous consent  of  the  brethren,  a  ship  was  sent  to  Bristol  to 
purchase  corn  for  charitable  purposes.  The  vessel,  delayed 
by  contrary  winds,  and  not  returning  (but  rather  aff*ord[iug 
an  opportunity  for  the  miracle),  on  the  very  day  when  there 
would  have  been  a  total  deficiency  of  corn,  both  for  the  poor 
and  the  convent,  a  field  near  the  monastery  was  found  sud- 
denly to  ripen,  more  than  a  month  before  the  usual  time  of 
harvest :  thus,  divine  Providence  supplied  the  brotherhood 

in  the  priory  of  St.  James  at  Bristol.  Of  this  once-famed  sanctuary 
nothing  now  remains  but  the  shell  of  its  chapter-house,  which,  by 
neglect,  has  lost  its  most  ornamental  parts.  When  Mr.  Wyndham 
made  the  to\ir  of  Wales  in  the  year  1777,  this  elegant  buUding  waa 
entire,  and  was  accurately  drawn  and  engraved  by  his  orders. 


FIDELITY    OF    THE    DO».  385 

ani  the  numerous  poor  with  sufficient  nourishment  until 
autumn.  By  these  and  other  signs  of  virtues,  the  place 
accepted  by  Grod  began  to  be  generally  esteemed  and  vene- 
rated. 

It  came  to  pass  also  in  our  days,  during  the  period  when 
the  four  sons  of  Caradoc  son  of  Jestin,  and  nephews  of 
prince  Khys  by  his  sister,  namely,  Morgan,  Meredyth,  Owen, 
and  Cadwallon,  bore  rule  for  their  father  in  those  parts,  that 
Cadwallon,  through  inveterate  malice,  slew  his  brother  Owen. 
But  divine  vengeance  soon  overtook  him  ;  for  on  his  making 
a  hostile  attack  on  a  certain  castle,  he  was  crushed  to  pieces 
by  the  sudden  fall  of  its  walls  :  and  thus,  in  the  presence  of 
a  numerous  body  of  his  own  and  his  brother's  forces,  suffered 
the  punishment  which  his  barbarous  and  unnatural  conduct 
had  so  justly  merited. 

Another  circumstance  which  happened  here,  deserves  no- 
tice. A  greyhound  belonging  to  the  aforesaid  Owen,  large, 
beautiful,  and  curiously  spotted  with  a  variety  of  colours, 
received  seven  wounds  from  arrows  and  lances,  in  the  defence 
of  his  master,  and  on  his  part  did  much  injury  to  the  enemy 
and  assassins.  When  his  wounds  were  healed,  he  was  sent 
to  king  Henry  II.  by  William  earl  of  Gloucester,  in  testi- 
mony of  so  great  and  extraordinary  a  deed.  A  dog,  of  all 
animals,  is  most  attached  to  man,  and  most  easily  dis- 
tinguishes him  ;  sometimes,  when  deprived  of  his  master, 
he  refuses  to  live,  and  in  his  master's  defence  is  bold  enough 
to  brave  death ;  ready,  therefore,  to  die,  either  with  or  for 
his  master.  I  do  not  think  it  superfluous  to  insert  here  an 
example  which  Suetonius  gives  in  his  book  on  the  nature  of 
animals,  and  which  Ambrosius  also  relates  in  his  Exameron. 
"  A  man,  accompanied  by  a  dog,  was  killed  in  a  remote  part  of 
the  city  of  Antioch,  by  a  soldier,  for  the  sake  of  plunder. 
The  murderer,  concealed  by  the  darkness  of  the  morning, 
escaped  into  another  part  of  the  city ;  the  corpse  lay  un- 
buried ;  a  large  concourse  of  people  assembled  ;  and  the  dog, 
with  bitter  bowlings,  lamented  his  master's  fate.  The  mur- 
derer, by  chance,  passed  that  way,  and,  in  order  to  prove  his 
innocence,  mingled  with  the  crowd  of  spectators,  and,  as  if 
moved  by  compassion,  approached  the  body  of  the  deceased. 
The  dog,  suspending  for  a  while  his  moans,  assumed  the 
arms  of  revenge;  rushed  upon  the  man,  and  seized  him, 

c  c 


B86  THE   ITDTEEAET    THEOUGH    WALES 

towling  at  the  same  time  m  so  dolorous  a  manner,  that  all 
present  shed  tears.  It  was  considered  as  a  proof  against  the 
murderer,  that  the  dog  seized  him  from  amongst  so  many, 
and  would  not  let  him  go ;  and  especially,  as  neither  the  crime 
of  hatred,  envy,  or  injury,  could  possibly,  in  this  case,  be 
urged  against  the  dog.  On  account,  therefore,  of  such  a 
strong  suspicion  of  murder  (which  the  soldier  constantly 
denied),  it  was  determined  that  the  truth  of  the  matter 
should  be  tried  by  combat.  The  parties  being  assembled  in 
a  field,  with  a  crowd  of  people  around,  the  dog  on  one  side, 
and  the  soldier,  armed  with  a  stick  of  a  cubit's  length,  on 
the  other,  the  murderer  was  at  length  overcome  by  the  vic- 
torious dog,  and  suffered  an  ignominious  death  on  the 
common  gallows. 

Pliny  and  Solinus  relate  that  a  certain  king,  who  was 
very  fond  of  dogs,  and  addicted  to  hunting,  was  taken  and 
imprisoned  by  his  enemies,  and  in  a  most  wonderful  manner 
liberated,  without  any  assistance  from  his  friends,  by  a  pack 
of  dogs,  who  had  spontaneously  sequestered  themselves  in 
the  mountainous  and  woody  regions,  and  from  thence  com- 
mitted  many  atrocious  acts  of  depredation  on  the  neighbour- 
ing herds  and  flocks.  I  shall  take  this  opportunity  of  men- 
tioning what  from  experience  and  ocular  testimony  I  have 
observed  respecting  the  nature  of  dogs.  A  dog  is  in  general 
sagacious,  but  particularly  with  respect  to  his  master ;  for 
when  he  has  for  some  time  lost  him  in  a  crowd,  he  depends 
more  upon  his  nose  than  upon  his  eyes  ;  and,  in  endeavour- 
ing to  find  him,  he  first  looks  about,  and  then  applies  his 
nose,  for  greater  certainty,  to  his  clothes,  as  if  nature  had 
placed  all  the  powers  of  infallibility  in  that  feature.  The 
tongue  of  a  dog  possesses  a  medicinal  quality ;  the  wolf's, 
on  the  contrary,  a  poisonous  :  the  dog  heals  his  wounds  by 
licking  them,  the  wolf,  by  a  similar  practice,  infects  them  ; 
and  the  dog,  if  he  has  received  a  wound  in  his  neck  or  head, 
or  any  part  of  his  body  where  he  cannot  apply  his  tongue, 
ingeniously  makes  use  of  his  hinder  foot  as  a  conveyance  of 
the  healing  qualities  to  the  parts  affected. 


PEEILS  OF  THE  EIYEE  NEATH.  387 


CHAPTER  YIII. 

PASSAGE  OF  THE  EITEES  AVON  AND  NETH — AND  OF 
ABEETAWE  AND  GOEE. 

CoNTiNTJiNG  our  joumej,^  not  far  from  Margan,  where  the 
alternate  vicissitudes  of  a  sandy  shore  and  the  tide  com- 
mence, we  forded  over  the  river  Avon,  having  been  consider- 
ably delayed  by  the  ebbing  of  the  sea ;  and  under  the  guid- 
ance of  Morgan,  eldest  son  of  Caradoc,  proceeded  along  the 
sea-shore  towards  the  river  Neth,  which,  on  account  of  its 
quicksands,  is  the  most  dangerous  and  inaccessible  river  in 
South  "Wales.  A  pack-horse  belonging  to  the  author,  which 
had  proceeded  by  the  lower  way  near  the  sea,  although  in 
the  midst  of  many  others,  was  the  only  one  which  sunk 
down  into  the  abyss,  but  he  was  at  last,  with  great  difficulty, 
extricated,  and  not  without  some  damage  done  to  the  bag- 
gage and  books.  Yet,  although  we  had  Morgan,  the 
prince  of  that  country,  as  our  conductor,  we  did  not  reach 
the  river  without  great  peril,  and  some  severe  falls  ;  for  the 
alarm  occasioned  by  this  unusual  kind  of  road,  made  us 
hasten  our  steps  over  the  quicksands,  in  opposition  to  the 
advice  of  our  guide,  and  fear  quickened  our  pace  ;  whereas, 
through  these  difficult  passages,  as  we  there  learned,  the 
mode  of  proceeding  should  be  with  moderate  speed.  But 
as  the  fords  of  that  river  experience  a  change  by  every 
monthly  tide,  and  cannot  be  found  after  violent  rains  and 
floods,  we  did  not  attempt  the  ford,  but  passed  the  river  in 
a  boat,  leaving  the  monastery  of  Neth^  on  our  right  hand, 

^  In  continuing  their  journey  from  Neath  to  Swansea,  our  travellers 
directed  their  course  hy  the  sea-coast  to  the  river  Avon,  which  they 
forded,  and,  continuing  their  road  along  the  sands,  were  probably 
ferried  over  the  river  Neath,  at  a  place  now  known  by  the  name  of 
Breton  Ferry,  leaving  the  monastery  of  Neath  at  some  distance  to  the 
right :  from  thence  traversing  another  tract  of  sands,  and  crossing  the 
river  Tawe,  they  arrived  at  the  castle  of  Swansea,  where  they  passed  the 
night. 

2  The  monastery  of  Neath  was  situated  on  the  banks  of  a  river  bearing 
the  same  name,  about  a  mile  to  the  westward  of  the  town  and  castle. 
It  was  founded  in  1112,  by  Kichard  de  Grainville,  or  Greenefeld,  and 
Constance,  his  wife,  for  the  safety  of  the  soids  of  Robert,  earl  of  Glou- 
cester, Maude,  his  wife,  and  WiUiam,  his  son.  Richard  de  Grainville 
was  one  of  the  twelve  Norman  knights  who  accompanied  Robert  Fitz- 

cc2 


388  THE   ITIN-EEAET   THEOUGH   WALES 

approacliing  again  to  the  district  of  St.  David's,  and  leaving 
the  diocese  of  Landaf  (which  we  had  entered  at  Aberge- 
venny)  behind  us. 

It  happened  in  our  days  that  David  II,,  bishop  of  St. 
David's,  passing  this  way,  and  finding  the  ford  agitated  by  a 
recent  storm,  a  chaplain  cf  those  parts,  named  Eotherch 
Falcus,  being  conversant  in  the  proper  method  of  crossing 
these  rivers,  undertook,  at  the  desire  of  the  bishop,  the 
dangerous  task  of  trying  the  ford.  Having  mounted  a  large 
and  powerful  horse,  which  had  been  selected  from  the  whole 
train  for  this  purpose,  he  immediately  crossed  the  ford,  and 
fled  with  great  rapidity  to  the  neighbouring  woods,  nor  could 
he  be  induced  to  return  until  the  suspension  which  he  had 
lately  incurred  was  removed,  and  a  full  promise  of  security 
and  indemnity  obtained ;  the  horse  was  then  restored  to  one 
party,  and  his  service  to  the  other. 

Hamon,  and  assisted  him  in  tlie  conquest  of  Glamorganshire.  He  re- 
ceived, in  recompense  for  his  services,  the  lordship  of  Neath ;  all  of 
which,  as  well  as  the  chapel  hi  his  castle  at  Neath,  he  gave  to  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Savigny,  near  Lyons,  in  France,  on  condition  that  they 
should  build  and  maintain  a  monastic  establishment  at  Neath.  This  ab- 
bey was  at  first  inhabited  by  monks  of  the  order  of  Savigny,  or  Fratrea 
Grisei,  who  became  afterwards  Cistercians,  or  Monachi  Albi.  Notwith- 
standing the  original  donation  to  Savigny,  we  do  not  find  that  this  reli- 
gious house  was  ever  subject  to  any  foreign  abbey,  or  accounted  as 
aHen.  Although  by  this  curious  document  we  are  able  to  ascertain  the 
date  of  the  original  foundation  of  the  abbey  of  Neath,  yet,  on  a  review 
of  its  ruins,  we  see  no  fragments  of  architecture  that  mark  so  early  a 
period  as  the  year  1112,  about  which  time  I  conclude  it  was  built.  In 
the  time  of  Leland  this  abbey  was  in  a  high  state  of  preservation,  for 
he  says,  "  Neth  abbay  of  white  monkes,  a  mile  above  Neth  town,  stand- 
ing in  the  ripe  of  Neth,  semid  to  me  the  fairest  abbay  of  al  Wales." — 
Leland,  Itin.  tom.  v.  p.  14.  The  remains  of  the  abbey  and  of  the  ad- 
joining priory -house  are  considerable ;  but  tliis  ancient  retirement  of 
the  grey  and  white  monks  is  now  occupied  by  the  dingy  inhabitants  of 
the  neighbouring  copper-works.  In  a  field  nearly  opposite  to  the  ruins 
of  the  abbey  lies  a  well-sculptured  effigy  of  an  abbot,  holding  the  model 
of  a  church  in  his  hand,  intended  probably  to  perpetuate  the  memory 
of  the  person  who  either  built  or  repaired  the  church.  Within  the 
village  of  Neth  are  some  remains  of  its  ancient  castle,  of  which  history 
has  left  the  following  memorial.  Its  original  construction  may  be  attri- 
buted to  Richard  de  Grainville  ;  it  was  besieged  A.D.  1185  for  the  second 
time,  and  held  out  manfully  till  an  army  came  from  England  to  its  re^ 
lief,  put  to  flight  the  Welsh  who  had  besieged  it,  and  bui'ned  a  large 
machine  which  they  had  erected  against  it. 


THE    CASTLE    OP    SWANSEA. 

Entering  tlie  province  called  Groer,^  we  spent  the  nigtt 
at  the  castle  of  Sweynsei,^  which  in  Welsh  is  called  Aber- 
tawe,  or  the  fall  of  the  river  Tawe  into  the  sea.  The  next 
morning,  the  people  being  assembled  after  mass,  and  many- 
having  been  induced  to  take  the  cross,  an  aged  man  of  that 
district,  named  Cador,  thus  addressed  the  archbishop :  "  My 
lord,  if  I  now  enjoyed  my  former  strength,  and  the  vigour 
of  youth,  no  alms  should  ransom  me,  no  desire  of  inactivity- 
restrain  me,  from  engaging  in  the  laudable  undertaking  you 
preach ;  but  since  my  weak  age  and  the  injuries  of  time  de- 
prive me  of  this  desirable  benefit  (for  approaching  years 
bring  with  them  many  comforts,  which  those  that  are  passed 
take  away),  if  I  cannot,  owing  to  the  infirmity  of  my 
body,  attain  a  full  merit,  yet  suffer  me,  by  giving  a  tenth 
of  all  I  possess,  to  attain  a  half."  Then  falling  down  at  the 
feet  of  the  archbishop,  he  deposited  in  his  hands,  for  the 
service  of  the  cross,  the  tenth  of  his  estate,  weeping  bit- 
terly, and  intreating  from  him  the  remission  of  one  half  of 
the  enjoined  penance.  After  a  short  time  he  returned,  and 
thus  continued :  "  My  lord,  if  the  will  directs  the  action, 
and  is  itself,  for  the  most  part,  considered  as  the  act,  and  aa 
I  have  a  full  and  firm  inclmation  to  undertake  this  journey, 
I  request  a  remission  of  the  remaining  part  of  the  pe- 

1  Gower,  the  western  district  of  Glamorganshire,  appears  to  have 
been  first  conquered  by  Henry  de  Newburg,  earl  of  Warwick,  soon 
after  Eobert,  duke  of  G-loucester,  had  made  the  conquest  of  the 
other  part  of  Grlamorgan shire.  This  earl  is  described  as  "  dulcis  et 
quieti  animi  vir,  et  qui  congruo  suis  moribus  studio  vitam  egit  et  clau- 
sit."  His  son  Roger  succeeded  to  his  earldom,  and  is  said  by  Dugdale 
(History  of  Warwickshire,  p.  304)  to  have  been  the  conqueror  of  Gow- 
herland  in  Wales,  which  his  posterity  for  a  long  time  afterwards  enjoyed. 
A  contemporary  author  has  described  him  as  "vir  mollis,  et  deliciifl 
magis  quam  animi  fortitudine  afiluens." 

2  Sweynsei,  Swansea,  or  Abertawe,  situated  at  the  confluence  of  the 
river  Tawe  with  the  Severn  sea,  is  a  town  of  considerable  commerce, 
and  much  frequented  during  the  summer  months  as  a  bathing- place. 
The  old  castle,  now  made  use  of  as  a  prison,  is  so  surrounded  by  houses 
in  the  middle  of  the  town,  that  a  stranger  might  visit  Swansea  without 
knowing  that  such  a  biiilding  existed.  The  Welsh  Chronicle  informs 
us,  that  it  was  built  by  Henry  de  Beaumont,  earl  of  Warwick,  and  that 
in  the  year  1113  it  was  attacked  by  G-rufiydd  ap  Rhys,  but  without  suc- 
cess. This  castle  became  afterwards  a  part  of  the  possessions  of  iks 
•ee  of  St.  David's,  and  was  rebuilt  by  bishop  Q-ower. 


390  THE    ITINEEAET   THEOUGH   WALES. 

nance,  and  in  addition  to  my  former  gift,  I  will  equal  the 
sum  from  the  residue  of  my  tenths."  The  archbishop,  smi- 
ling at  his  devout  ingenuity,  embraced  him  with  admira- 
tion. 

On  the  same  night,  two  monks,  who  waited  in  the  arch- 
bishop's chamber,  conversing  about  the  occurrences  of  their 
journey,  and  the  dangers  of  the  road,  one  of  them  said 
(alluding  to  the  wildness  of  the  country),  "  This  is  a  hard 
province ;"  the  other  (alluding  to  the  quicksands),  wittily 
replied,  "  Yet  yesterday  it  was  found  too  soft." 

A  short  time  before  our  days,  a  circumstance  worthy  of 
note  occurred  in  these  parts,  which  Elidorus,  a  priest,  most 
strenuously  affirmed  had  befallen  himself  When  a  youth 
of  twelve  years,  and  learning  his  letters,  since,  as  Solomon 
says,  "  The  root  of  learning  is  bitter,  although  the  fruit  is 
sweet,"  in  order  to  avoid  the  discipline  and  frequent  stripes 
inflicted  on  him  by  his  preceptor,  he  ran  away,  and  con- 
cealed himself  under  the  hollow  bank  of  a  river.  After 
fasting  in  that  situation  for  two  days,  two  little  men  of 
pigmy  stature  appeared  to  him,  saying,  "  If  you  will  come 
with  us,  we  will  lead  you  into  a  country  full  of  delights 
and  sports."  Assenting  and  rising  up,  he  followed  his  guides 
through  a  path,  at  first  subterraneous  and  dark,  into  a  most 
beautiful  country,  adorned  with  rivers  and  meadows,  woods 
and  plains,  but  obscure,  and  not  illuminated  with  the  full 
light  of  the  sun.  All  the  days  were  cloudy,  and  the  nights 
extremely  dark,  on  account  of  the  absence  of  the  moon  and 
stars.  The  boy  was  brought  before  the  king,  and  introduced 
to  him  in  the  presence  of  the  court ;  who,  having  examined 
him  for  a  long  time,  delivered  him  to  his  son,  who  was 
then  a  boy.  These  men  were  of  the  smallest  stature,  but 
very  well  proportioned  in  their  make;  they  were  all  of  a 
fair  complexion,  with  luxuriant  hair  falling  over  their  shoul- 
ders like  that  of  women.  They  had  horses  and  greyhounds 
adapted  to  their  size.  They  neither  ate  flesh  nor  fish,  but 
lived  on  milk  diet,  made  up  into  messes  with  saff'ron.  They 
never  took  an  oath,  for  they  detested  nothing  so  much  as 
lies.  As  often  as  they  returned  from  our  upper  hemisphere, 
they  reprobated  our  ambition,  infidelities,  and  inconstan- 
cies ;  they  had  no  form  of  public  worship,  being  strict 
lovers  and  reverers,  as  it  seemed,  of  truth. 


ELIDOETIS    AND   THE    FAIEIES.  391 

The  boy  frequently  returned  to  our  hemisphere,  some- 
timea  by  the  way  he  had  first  gone,  sometimes  by  another : 
at  first  in  company  with  other  persons,  and  afterwards  alone, 
and  made  himself  known  only  to  his  mother,  declaring  to 
her  the  manners,  nature,  and  state  of  that  people.  Being 
desired  by  her  to  bring  a  present  of  gold,  with  which  that 
region  abounded,  he  stole,  while  at  play  with  the  king's  son, 
the  golden  ball  with  which  he  used  to  divert  himself,  and 
brought  it  to  his  mother  in  great  haste ;  and  when  he  reached 
the  door  of  his  father's  house,  but  not  unpursued,  and  was 
entering  it  in  a  great  hurry,  his  foot  stumbled  on  the  thres- 
hold, and  falling  down  into  the  room  where  his  mother  was 
sitting,  the  two  pigmies  seized  the  ball  which  had  dropped 
from  his  hand,  and  departed,  shewing  the  boy  every  mark  of 
contempt  and  derision.  On  recovering  from  his  fall,  con- 
founded with  shame,  and  execrating  the  evil  counsel  of  his 
mother,  he  returned  by  the  usual  track  to  the  subterraneous 
road,  but  found  no  appearance  of  any  passage,  though  he 
searched  for  it  on  the  banks  of  the  river  for  nearly  the 
space  of  a  year.  But  since  those  calamities  are  often  alle- 
viated by  time,  which  reason  cannot  mitigate,  and  length  of 
time  alone  blunts  the  edge  of  our  afflictions,  and  puts  an  end 
to  many  evils,  the  youth  having  been  brought  back  by  his 
friends  and  mother,  and  restored  to  his  right  way  of  think- 
ing, and  to  his  learning,  in  process  of  time  attained  the 
rank  of  priesthood.  Whenever  David  II.,  bishop  of  St. 
David's,  talked  to  him  in  his  advanced  state  of  life  con- 
cerning this  event,  he  could  never  relate  the  particulars 
without  shedding  tears.  He  had  made  himself  acquainted 
with  the  language  of  that  nation,  the  words  of  which,  in  his 
younger  days,  he  used  to  recite,  which,  as  the  bishop  often 
had  informed  me,  were  very  conformable  to  the  Greek 
idiom.  When  they  asked  for  water,  they  said  Tdor 
ydorum,  which  meant  bring  water,  for  Tdor  in  their 
language,  as  well  as  in  the  Greek,  signifies  water,  from 
whence  vessels  for  water  are  called  vdpia/ ;  and  Dur  also,  in 
the  British  language,  signifies  water.  When  they  wanted  salt 
they  said,  Halgein  ydorum,  bring  salt:  salt  is  called  d\  in 
Greek,  and  Halen  in  British,  for  that  language,  from  the 
length  of  time  which  the  Britons  (then  called  Trojans,  and 


392  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOrGH   WALES. 

afterwards  Britons,  from  Brito,  their  leader)  remained  in 
Grreece  after  the  destruction  of  Troy,  became,  in  many  in- 
stances, similar  to  the  Grreek. 

It  is  remarkable  that  so  many  languages  should  cor- 
respond in  one  word,  aX  in  Grreek,  Halen  in  British,  and 
Halgein  in  the  Irish  tongue,  the  g  being  inserted ;  Sal  in 
Latin,  because,  as  Priscian  says,  "  the  s  is  placed  in  some 
words  instead  of  an  aspirate,"  as  aXg  in  Glreek  is  called  Sal 
in  Latin,  £//-/ — semi — s'tttu — septem — Sel  in  French — the  a 
being  changed  into  e — Salt  in  English,  by  the  addition  of  t 
to  the  Latin ;  Sout,  in  the  Teutonic  language :  there  are 
therefore  seven  or  eight  languages  agreeing  in  this  one 
word.  If  a  scrupulous  inquirer  should  ask  my  opinion  of 
the  relation  here  inserted,  I  answer  with  Augustine,  "  that 
the  divine  miracles  are  to  be  admired,  not  discussed."  Nor 
do  I,  by  denial,  place  bounds  to  the  divine  power,  nor,  by 
assent,  insolently  extend  what  cannot  be  extended.  But  I 
always  call  to  mind  the  saying  of  St.  Jerome ;  "  Tou  will 
find,"  says  he,  "  many  things  incredible  and  improbable, 
which  nevertheless  are  true ;  for  nature  cannot  in  any  res- 
pect prevail  against  the  lord  of  nature."  These  things, 
therefore,  and  similar  contingencies,  I  should  place,  accord- 
ing to  the  opinion  of  Augustine,  among  those  particulars 
which  are  neither  to  be  affirmed,  nor  too  positively  denied. 


CHAPTEE  IX. 

PASSAaE   OVEE  THE   EITEES   LOCHOE  AND  WEin)EAETH  ; 
AND    OF    CYDWELI. 

Thence  we  proceeded  towards  the  river  Lochor,^  through 
the  plains  in  which  Howel,  son  of  Meredyth  of  Brecheinoc, 
after  the  decease  of  king  Henry  I.,  gained  a  signal  victory 
over  the  English.     Having  first  crossed  the  river  Lochop, 

1  Lochor,  or  Llwchwr,  was  the  Leucarmn  mentioned  in  the  Itinera- 
ries, and  the  fifth  Roman  station  on  the  Via  Julia.  This  small  village 
is  situated  on  a  tide-river  bearing  the  same  name,  which  divides  the 
counties  of  Glamorgan  and  Caermarthen,  and  over  which  there  is  a 
ferry.  "Lochor  river  partith  Kidwelli  from  West  Gowsrlande.'*— 
Leland,  Itin.  torn.  v.  p.  23. 


MArEICE   DE    LONDEES.  3d8- 

and  afterwards  the  water  called  "Wendraeth,^  we  arrived  at 

the  castle  of  Cydweli."  In  this  district,  after  the  death  of  king 
Henry,  whilst  Gruffydh  son  of  Rhys,  then  prince  of  South 
"Wales,  was  engaged  in  soliciting  assistance  from  North  Wales, 
his  wife  Grwenliana  (like  the  queen  of  the  Amazons,  and  a 
second  Penthesilea)  led  an  army  into  these  parts ;  but  she  was 
defeated  by  Maurice  de  Londres,  lord  of  that  country,  and 
Geoffrey,  the  bishop's  constable.^  Morgan,  one  of  her  sons, 
whom  she  had  arrogantly  brought  with  her  in  that  expedition, 
was  slain,  and  the  other,  Malgo,  taken  prisoner;  and  she,  with 
many  of  her  followers,  was  put  to  death.  During  the  reign 
of  king  Henry  I.,  when  "Wales  enjoyed  a  state  of  tranquillity, 
the  abovementioned  Maurice  had  a  forest  in  that  neighbour- 
hood, well  stocked  with  wild  animals,  and  especially  deer,  and 
was  extremely  tenacious  of  his  venison.  His  wife  (for  women 
are  often  very  expert  in  deceiving  men)  made  use  of  this 
curious  stratagem.  Her  husband  possessed,  on  the  side  of 
the  wood  next  the  sea,  some  extensive  pastures,  and  large 
flocks  of  sheep.  Having  made  all  the  shepherds  and  chief 
people  in  her  house  accomplices  and  favourers  of  her  design, 
and  taking  advantage  of  the  simple  courtesy  of  her  hus- 
band, she  thus  addressed  him :  "  It  is  wonderful  that  being 
lord  over  beasts,  you  have  ceased  to  exercise  dominion  over 

"*  Wendraeth,  or  Grwen-traith,  from  gwen,  white,  and  traeth,  the  sandy 
beach  of  the  sea.  There  are  two  rivers  of  this  name,  Gwendraeth  fawr, 
and  Gwendraeth  fychan,  the  great  and  the  little  Gwendraeth,  of  wliieh 
Leland  thus  speaks  :  '"  Yendraeth  Yawr  and  Vendraith  Yehan  risith  both 
in  Eskenning  commote :  the  lesse  an  eight  milys  of  from  Kydwelli ; 
the  other  about  a  ten,  and  hath  but  a  little  nesche  of  sand  betwixt  the 
places  wher  thei  go  into  the  se,  about  a  mile  beueth  the  towne  of  Kid- 
wely." 

2  Cydweli  was  probably  so  called  from  cyd,  a  junction,  and  wyl,  a 
flow,  or  gushing  out,  being  situated  near  the  junction  of  the  rivers  Gwen- 
draeth fawr  and  fychan  ;  but  Leland  gives  its  name  a  very  singtdar  de- 
rivation, and  worthy  of  our  credulous  and  superstitious  author  Giral- 
dus.  "  Kidwely,  otherwise  Cathweli,  i.  e.  Catti  lectus,  quia  Cattus  olim 
Bolebat  ibi  lectum  in  quercu  facere  : — There  is  a  little  towne  now  but 
newly  made  betwene  Yendraith  Yawr  and  Yendraith  Yehan.  Yendraith 
Vawr  is  half  a  mile  of." — Leland,  Jlin.  tom.  v.  p.  22. 

3  The  scene  of  the  battle  fought  between  Gwenllian  and  Maurice  da 
Londres  is  to  this  day  called  Maes  Gwenllian,  the  plain  or  field  oi 
GwenUian  j  and  there  is  a  tower  in  the  castle  of  Cydweli  still  called 
Tyr  GwenUian. 


394  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOUGH   WALES. 

them ;  and  by  not  making  use  of  your  deer,  do  not  now 
rule  over  them,  but  are  subservient  to  them ;  and  behold 
how  great  an  abuse  arises  from  too  much  patience  ;  for  they 
attack  our  sheep  with  such  an  unheard-of  rage,  and  unusual 
voracity,  that  from  many  they  are  become  few ;  from  being 
innumerable,  only  numerous."  To  make  her  story  more 
probable,  she  caused  some  wool  to  be  inserted  between  the 
intestines  of  two  stags  which  had  been  embowelled ;  and 
her  husband,  thus  artfully  deceived,  sacrificed  his  deer  to  the 
rapacity  of  his  dogs. 

CHAPTER  X. 

TTWT   EITEE — CAEBMAEDTN — MONASTEET    OE    ALBELAKDE. 

Hayikg  crossed  the  river  Tywy  in  a  boat,^  we  proceeded 
towards  Caermardyn,  leaving  Lanstephan  and  Talachar^  on 
the  sea-coast  to  our  left.  After  the  death  of  kiag  Henry 
II.,  Bhys,  the  son  of  Grruffydh,  took  these  two  castles  by 
assault ;  then,  having  laid  waste,  by  fire  and  sword,  the  pro- 
vinces of  Penbroch  and  Eos,  he  besieged  Caermardyn,  but 
failed  in  his  attempt.     Caermardyn*  signifies  the    city  of 

'  Our  crusaders  here  deviated  from  the  modern  post-road  between 
CydweU  and  Caermarthen,  by  crossing  the  river  Tywy,  and  leaving  the 
castle  of  Llanstephan  on  their  left.  This  fortress  is  boldly  situated  on  a 
well-wooded  promontory,  guarding  the  western  entrance  of  the  river, 
and  its  ruins  are  still  very  considerable.  In  1145,  it  was  taken  by  Ca- 
delh,  the  son  of  Gruffyd  ap  Rhys,  though  the  Normans  and  Fleminga 
came  to  its  relief;  in  1189  it  yielded  to  the  forces  of  prince  Rhys. 

2  The  castle  of  Talachar  is  now  better  known  by  the  name  of  Llaug- 
hame ;  it  protected  the  western  entrance  of  tlie  river  Tave,  which  is 
fordable  at  low  water,  and  is  distant  from  Llanstephan  about  three  or 
four  miles.  The  situation  of  these  two  castles  is  widely  different. 
Llanstephan,  proudly  seated  on  a  high  rock,  commands  on  one  side  an 
enchanting  view  towards  Caermarthen,  and  towards  Tenby  on  the  other. 
Llaughame  is  placed  in  so  low  a  situation,  that  its  walls  are  washed  by 
the  tide.  This  line  of  coast  in  Caermarthen  shire  and  Glamorganshire 
is  singularly  intersected  by  tide  rivers — tlie  Tave  at  Llaughame,  the  Tywy 
at  Llanstephan,  the  two  G wendraeths  at  CydweH,  the  Lochor  and  Tawy 
at  Swansea,  and  the  Nedd  at  Neath. 

3  Much  has  been  said  and  written  by  ancient  authors  respecting 
the  derivation  of  the  name  of  this  city,  which  is  generally  allowed 
to  be  the  Muridunum,  or  Maridunum,  mentioned  in  the  Roman  itine- 
raries. Some  derive  it  fi-om  Caer  and  Merdhyn,  that  is,  the  city  of 
the  prophet  Merdliyn  ;  and  others  from  Mur  and  Murdhyn,  which  in 
the  British  language  signify  a  wall.    There  can,   however,   be  littl» 


CAEEMAETHEW.  39S 

Merlin,  because,  according  to  the  Britisli  History,  he  waa 
there  said  to  have  been  begotten  of  an  incubus. 

This  ancient  city  is  situated  on  the  banks  of  the  noble 
river  Tywy,  surrounded  by  woods  and  pastures,  and  waa 
strongly  inclosed  with  walls  of  brick,  part  of  which  are  still 
standing;  having  Cantref  Mawr,  the  great  cantred,  or  hun- 
dred, on  the  eastern  side,  a  safe  refuge,  in  times  of  danger, 
to  the  inhabitants  of  South  "Wales,  on  account  of  its  thick 
woods  ;  where  is  also  the  castle  of  Dinevor,^  built  on  a 
lofty  summit  above  the  Tywy,  the  royal  seat  of  the  princes 
of  South  "Wales.  In  ancient  times,  there  were  three  regal 
palaces  in  Wales  :  Dinevor  in  South  "Wales,  Aberfrau  in 
North  "Wales,  situated  in  Anglesea,  and  Pengwem  in 
Powys,  now  called  Shrewsbury  (Slopesburia)  ;  Pengwern 
signifies  the  head  of  a  grove  of  alders.  Eecalling  to  mind 
those  poetical  passages : 

**  Dolus  an  virtus  quis  in  hoste  requirat  ?" 

and 

"  Et  si  non  recte  possis  quocunque  modo  rem," 

my  pen  shrinks  with  abhorrence  from  the  relation  of  the 
enormous  vengeance  exercised  by  the  court  against  its  vas- 

doubt  that  it  is  derived  simply  from  tlie  Eoman  name  Muridunum. 
Wlien  we  consider  the  many  and  repeated  reverses  of  fortune  which 
Caennardyn  experienced,  we  cannot  be  disappointed  in  finding  so  few 
vestiges  of  its  ancient  castle.  Caermarthen  is  beautifully  situated  on 
the  banks  of  the  navigable  river  Tywy.  The  county  gaol  occupies  the 
site  of  the  old  castle,  a  few  fragments  of  which  are  seen  intermixed 
with  the  houses  of  the  town. 

'  Dinevor,  the  great  castle,  from  dinas,  a  castle,  and  vawr,  great,  waa 
in  ancient  times  a  royal  residence  of  the  princes  of  South  Wales.  In 
the  year  876,  Roderic  the  Great,  having  divided  the  principalities  of 
Korth  and  South  Wales,  and  Powys  land,  amongst  his  three  sons,  built 
for  each  of  them  a  palace.  The  sovereignty  of  South  Wales,  with  the 
castle  of  Dinevor,  fell  to  the  lot  of  Cadelh.  This  principahty,  with  its 
fifteen  cantreds,  extended  from  the  mouth  of  the  river  Dovy,  in  Cardi- 
ganshire, to  the  mouth  of  the  Severn.  In  the  year  1144,  we  find  it  in 
the  possession  of  Gilbert  earl  of  Clare,  besieged,  and  surrendered  to 
Cadelh,  son  of  Gruffydh  ap  Rhys,  prince  of  South  Wales  :  in  1191,  it 
■was  delivered  up  on  the  first  assault  to  Rhys,  prince  of  South  Wales, 
who,  in  1194,  was  taken  prisoner  by  his  own  sons.  The  ruins  of  this 
ancient  castle  still  crown  the  summit  of  a  high  hill,  majestically  clothed 
with  wood,  and  form  a  principal  feature  in  the  beautiful  grounds  at 
Newton.  To  view  this  fine  object  in  the  most  favourable  point  of  view, 
it  is  advisable  to  go  into  the  meadows  on  the  other  side  of  the  Tywy 
where  the  hill,  castle,  and  river,  form  a  most  enchanting  landscape. 


396  THE    ITINEEAET    THEOUaH  WALES. 

Bals,  within  the  comot  of  Caeo,  in  the  Cantref  Mawr.  Neai 
Dinevor,  on  the  other  side  of  the  river  Tywj,  in  the  Can- 
tref Bychan,  or  the  little  cantred,  there  is  a  spring  which, 
like  the  tide,  ebbs  and  flows  twice  in  twenty-four  hoursJ 
Not  far  to  the  north  of  Caermardyn,  namely  at  Pencadair,' 
that  is,  the  head  of  the  chair,  when  E-hys,  the  son  of  Grruf- 
fydh,  was  more  by  stratagem  than  force  compelled  to  sur- 
render, and  was  carried  away  into  England,  king  Henry  II. 
despatched  a  knight,  born  in  Britany,  on  whose  wisdom 
and  fidelity  he  could  rely,  under  the  conduct  of  Guaidanus, 
dean  of  Cantref  Mawr,  to  explore  the  situation  of  Dinevor 
castle,  and  the  strength  of  the  country.  The  priest,  being 
desired  to  take  the  knight  by  the  easiest  and  best  road  to  the 
castle,  led  him  purposely  aside  by  the  most  difficult  and  in- 
accessible paths,  and  wherever  they  passed  through  woods, 
the  priest,  to  the  general  surprise  of  all  present,  fed  upon 
grass,  asserting  that,  in  times  of  need,  the  inhabitants  of 
that  country  were  accustomed  to  live  upon  herbs  and  roots. 
The  knight  returning  to  the  king,  and  relating  what  had 
happened,  affirmed  that  the  country  was  uninhabitable,  vile, 
and  inaccessible,  and  only  afibrding  food  to  a  beastly  nation, 
living  like  brutes.  At  length  the  king  released  Ehys,  having 
first  bound  him  to  fealty  by  solemn  oaths  and  the  delivery 
of  hostages. 

On  our  journey  from  Caermardyn  towards  the  Cistercian 
monastery  called  Alba  Domus,^  the  archbishop  was  informed 

'  There  is  a  spring  very  near  the  north  side  of  Dinevor  park  wall, 
which  bears  the  name  of  Nant-y-rhibo,  or  the  bewitched  brook,  which 
may,  perhaps,  be  the  one  here  alluded  to  by  Giraldus. 

2  Pencadair.  It  is  here  necessary  to  correct  a  topographical  error 
made  by  the  old  annotator  on  Giraldus,  Dr.  Powel,  respecting  thia 
place.  He  says,  in  1163,  "Then  the  king  gathered  a  great  power 
agaiast  South  Wales,  and  came  himselfe  as  farre  as  Pencadayr,  beside 
Brecknock,  where  Rees  came  to  him,  and  did  him  homage,  and  gave 
him  pledges,  and  then  the  king  went  to  Ireland  againe.'' — Powel,  p.  20. 
But  the  real  place  of  their  meeting  was  at  the  Pencadair  here  alluded 
to,  a  small  village  situated  to  the  north  of  Caermarthen,  and  at  a  short 
distance  on  the  left  of  the  road  leading  from  that  place  to  Llanbedr  in 
Cardiganshire.  On  referring  to  the  original  text  in  the  Myvyrian  Ar- 
chaeology, I  find  it  mentions  Pencadair  in  South  Wales  only,  not  near 
Brecknock. 

3  Alba  Doraue  was  called  in  Welsh  Ty  Gwyn  ar  Dav,  or  the  White 
House  on  the  river   Tav.     In  the  history  of  the  primitive  Britiai 


MONASTEST  OP  ALBELANDE.  397 

of  the  murder  of  a  young  "Welshman,  who  was  devout'.y  has* 
tening  to  meet  him  ;  when  turning  out  of  the  road,  he  or- 
dered the  corpse  to  be  covered  with  the  cloak  of  his  almoner, 
and  with  a  pious  supplication  commended  the  soul  of  the 
murdered  youth  to  heaven.  Twelve  archers  of  the  adjacent 
castle  of  St.  Clare,^  who  had  assassinated  the  young  man, 
church,  Ty  Gwyn,  or  white  house,  is  used  in  a  sense  equivalent  to  a 
chapter-house.  The  White  House  College,  or  Bangor  y  Ty  Gwyn,  is 
pretended  to  have  been  founded  about  480,  by  Paul  Hen,  or  Paulinus, 
a  saint  of  the  congregation  of  Illtyd.  From  this  origin,  the  celebrated 
Cistercian  monastery  is  said  to  have  derived  its  establishment.  Powel, 
in  his  chronicle,  says,  "  For  the  first  abbey  or  frier  house  that  we  read 
of  in  Wales,  sith  the  destruction  of  the  noble  house  of  Bangor,  which 
savoured  not  of  Romish  dregges,  was  the  Tuy  Gwyn,  built  the  yeare 
1146,  and  after  they  swarmed  like  bees  through  all  the  countrie." 
(Powel,  p.  254.)  Authors  differ  with  respect  to  the  founder  of  this 
abbey  ;  some  have  attributed  it  to  Rhys  ap  Theodor,  prince  of  South 
Wales  ;  and  others  to  Bernard,  bishop  of  Saint  David's,  who  died 
about  the  year  1148.  I  am  inclined  to  think  it  owed  its  foundation  to 
the  latter  personage,  as  the  date  of  his  episcopacy  concurs  with  Powel's 
account,  and  is  corx'oborated  by  the  following  passage  in  Wharton's  An- 
glia  Sacra  ,•  "  Anno  1143  ducti  sunt  monachi  ordinis  Cisterciensis  qui 
modo  sunt  apud  Albam  Landam,  in  West  Walliam,  per  Bernardum 
episcopum."  Leland,  in  his  Collectanea,  says,  "  Whitland,  abbat.  Cis- 
tert,,  Rhesus  filius  Theodori  princeps  Suth  Wallise  primus  fundator  j" 
and  in  his  Itinerary,  mentions  it  as  a  convent  of  Bernardynes,  "which 
yet  stondeth."  About  the  year  1171,  king  Henry  was  entertained  by 
prince  Rhys,  at  the  White  House,  when  on  his  journey  to  Ireland ;  upon 
which  occasion  the  king  restored  to  him  his  son  Howel,  who  had  been 
detained  for  a  considerable  time  as  a  hostage.  (Powel,  p.  231.)  The 
ruins  of  this  abbey  are  situated  about  five  miles  from  Saint  Clare's,  on 
the  right  hand  of  the  road  leading  from  thence  to  Narberth.  A  few 
fragments  of  rude  walls,  and  the  traces  of  some  foundations,  point  out 
its  ancient  site.  It  stood  in  a  sequestered  valley,  sheltered  from  the 
north  and  east  winds  by  a  magnificent  range  of  hanging  wood,  extend- 
ing along  the  declivities  of  the  liill  for  more  than  a  mile  :  it  was  called 
the  White  House  on  the  Taf,  though  that  river  runs  to  the  westward  of 
this  vale.  This  valley,  once  the  peaceful  abode  of  the  meek  and  recluse 
Cistercian,  where 

"  Remote  from  man,  with  God  he  passed  his  days, 
Prayer  all  his  pleasure,  all  his  profit  praise," 
now  re-echoes  with  the  hammering  sounds  of  two  iron  forges.  Oh, 
Alba  Domus  !  how  changed  in  colour,  how  changed  in  thy  inhabitants  ! 
2  Saint  Clare  is  a  long,  straggling  village,  at  the  junction  of  the  river 
Cathgenny  with  the  Tave.  Immediately  on  the  banks  of  the  former, 
and  not  far  from  its  junction  with  the  latter,  stood  the  castle,  of  which 
not  one  stone  is  left ;  tut  the  artificial  tumulus  on  which  the  citadel 
was  placed,  and  other  broken  groxmd,  mark  its  ancient  sie. 


398  TEE   ITINEEA.ET   THEOTJOH   WALES. 

were  on  the  following  day  signed  witli  the  cross  at  Alba 
Domus,  as  a  punishment  for  their  crime.  Having  traversed 
three  rivers,  the  Taf,  then  the  Cledheu,  under  Lanwadein,* 
and  afterwards  another  branch  of  the  same  river,  we  at 
length  arrived  at  Haverford.  This  province,  from  its  situa- 
tion between  two  rivers,  has  acquired  the  name  of  Dau- 
gledheu,^  being  enclosed  and  terminated,  as  it  were,  by  two 
swords,  for  cledhue,  in  the  British  language,  signifies  a  sword. 


CHAPTEE  XI. 

OF    HAYEErOED   AND    EOS. 

A   SEEMON   having  been  delivered  at  Haverford^  by  the 
archbishop,  and  the  word  of  Grod  preached  to  the  people  by 

^  Lanwadein,  now  called  Lawhaden,  is  a  small  village  about  four 
miles  from  Narberth,  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Cledheu.  On  the  sum- 
mit of  a  high  hill  covered  with  wood,  there  are  considerable  remains  of 
a  castle,  belonging  to  the  see  of  Saint  David's.  In  those  days  of  tur- 
bulence and  oppression,  when  the  principalities  of  North  and  South 
Wales  were  continually  ravaged  and  harassed  by  the  hostile  incirrsionB 
of  the  Welsh,  Normans,  and  Flemings,  and  when  even  the  most  hal- 
lowed sanctuaries  and  churches  were  unrespected  by  the  invaders,  the 
bishops  in  Wales  thought  it  necessary  to  fortify  their  palaces  against 
the  attacks  of  the  enemy.  I  have  already  had  occasion  to  mention  one 
castellated  mansion  at  Landeu,  near  Brecknock,  belonging  to  this  see ; 
there  is  a  second  at  Lawhaden,  and  a  third  at  Llantphey,  near  Pembroke. 

2  Daugledheu,  so  called  from  Dau,  two,  and  Cled,  or  Cleddau,  a 
sword.  The  rivers  Cledheu  have  their  source  in  the  Prescelly  moun- 
tain, unite  their  streams  below  Haverfordwest,  and  run  into  Milford 
Haven,  which  in  Welsh  is  called  Aberdaugleddau,  or  the  confluence  of 
the  two  rivers  Cledheu.  Leland  thus  mentions  this  river ;  '*  Dueglevi 
lordship  is  conteynid  betwixt  the  2  rivers  of  Glevi.  In  this  lordship 
or  grounde  be  few  or  none  notable  buildinges  :  ther  is  a  little  rille  be- 
twixt the  2  Gleves  caulhd  Kollell,  i.  e.  cultellus."  And  again,  alluding 
to  the  latter  rivulet,  he  says,  "  betwyxt  the  2  Gleves  by  Harfordwest  is 

a  little  ry  veret  caullid  in  Walsh, ,  in  Englisch,  Knife.  One  being 

requirid  wher  he  lay  al  night,  answered  '  that  he  lay,  having  a  sword  on 
eche  side  of  hym,  and  a  knife  at  his  hart,  alluding  to  the  3  ryvers  in 
the  middle  of  whom  he  lay  al  night.'  " — Leland,  I  tin.  torn.  v.  p.  27,  28. 
The  annotator,  Dr.  Powel,  in  his  notes  on  this  chapter,  confounds  Hul- 
phord,  or  Haverford,  with  Aberdaugledheu,  or  Milford  Haven. 

3  Haverford,  now  called  Haverfordwest,  is  a  considerable  town  on 
the  rirer  Cledheu,  with  an  ancient  castle,  three  churches,  and  some  mo- 
nasti :  remains.     *'  Haverfordwest  lordship,  which  is  in  Eoseiandei  bath 


THE    FLEMlliGS    l^    WALES. 

tie  archdeacon/  whose  name  appears  on  the  title-page  of 
this  work,  many  soldiers  and  plebeians  were  induced  to 
take  the  cross.  It  appeared  wonderful  and  miraculous, 
that,  although  the  archdeacon  addressed  them  both  in  the 
Latin  and  JFrench  tongues,  those  persons  who  understood 
neither  of  those  languages  were  equally  affected,  and  flocked 
in  great  numbers  to  the  cross. 

An  old  woman  of  those  parts,  who  for  three  preceding 
years  had  been  blind,  having  heard  of  the  archbishop's 
arrival,  sent  her  son  to  the  place  where  the  sermon  was  to 
be  preached,  that  he  might  bring  back  to  her  some  particle, 
if  only  of  the  fringe  of  his  garment.  The  young  man  being 
prevented  by  the  crowd  from  approaching  the  archbishop, 
waited  till  the  assembly  was  dispersed,  and  then  carried  a 
piece  of  the  earth  on  which  the  preacher  had  stood.  The 
mother  received  the  gift  with  great  joy,  and  falling  imme- 
diately on  her  knees,  applied  the  turf  to  her  mouth  and 
eyes ;  and  thus,  through  the  merits  of  the  holy  man,  and 
her  own  faith  and  devotion,  recovered  the  blessing  of  sight, 
which  she  had  entirely  lost. 

The  inhabitants  of  this  province  derived  their  origin  from 
Flanders,  and  were  sent  by  king  Henry  I.  to  inhabit  these 
districts  ;  a  people  brave  and  robust,  ever  most  hostile  to  the 
"Welsh  ;  a  people,  I  say,  well  versed  in  commerce  and 
woollen  manufactories  ;  a  people  anxious  to  seek  gain  by 
sea  or  land,  in  defiance  of  fatigue  and  danger ;  a  hardy  race, 
equally  fitted  for  the  plough  or  the  sword  ;  a  people  brave 
and  happy,  if  Wales  (as  it  ought  to  have  been)  had  been 
dear  to  its  sovereign,  and  had  not  so  frequently  experienced 
the  vindictive  resentment  and  ill-treatment  of  its  governors. 

A  circumstance  happened  in  the  castle  of  Haverford 
during  our  time,  which  ought  not  to  be  omitted.  A  famous 
robber  was  fettered  and  confined  in  one  of  its  towers,  and 

the  waullid  town  of  Haverford  and  castel :  the  water  of  Mylford  Haven 
devidith  the  lordship  from  Penbrooke." — Leland,  It  in.  torn.  v.  p.  26. 
The  old  castle  (now  used  as  the  county  gaol),  from  its  size  and 
commanding  situation,  adds  greatly  to  the  picturesque  appearance  ot 
this  town. 

^  By  the  title  of  archidiaconus  Menevensis,  which  Giraldus  here 
applies  to  himself,  the  reader  might  suppose  him  to  have  been  arch- 
deacon of  St.  Darid's,  whereas  he  was  only  archdeacon  of  Brecon,  in 
that  diocese. 


400  THE  ITIITEBAET  THEOUGH  WALES. 

was  often  visited  by  three  boys,  tbe  son  of  the  earl  of  Clare, 
and  two  others,  one  of  whom  was  son  of  the  lord  of  tho 
castle,  and  the  other  his  grandson,  sent  thither  for  their 
education,  and  who  applied  to  him  for  arrows,  with  which 
he  used  to  supply  them.  One  day,  at  the  request  of  the 
children,  the  robber,  being  brought  from  his  dungeon, 
took  advantage  of  the  absence  of  the  gaoler,  closed  the 
door,  and  shut  himself  up  with  the  boys.  A  great  clamour 
instantly  arose,  as  well  from  the  boys  within,  as  from  the 
people  without ;  nor  did  he  cease,  with  an  uplifted  axe,  to 
threaten  the  lives  of  the  children,  until  indemnity  and  secu- 
rity were  assured  to  him  in  the  most  ample  manner.  A 
similar  accident  happened  at  Chateau-roux  in  France.  The 
lord  of  that  place  maintained  in  the  castle  a  man  whose 
eyes  he  had  formerly  put  out,  but  who,  by  long  habit,  recol- 
lected the  ways  of  the  castle,  and  the  steps  leading  to  the 
towers.  Seizing  an  opportunity  of  revenge,  and  meditating 
the  destruction  of  the  youth,  he  fastened  the  inward  doors 
of  the  castle,  and  took  the  only  son  and  heir  of  the  governor 
of  the  castle  to  the  summit  of  a  high  tower,  from  whence 
he  was  seen  with  the  utmost  concern  by  the  people  beneath. 
The  father  of  the  boy  hastened  thither,  and,  struck  with 
terror,  attempted  by  every  possible  means  to  procure  the 
ransom  of  his  son,  but  received  for  answer,  that  this  could 
not  be  eifected,  but  by  the  same  mutilation  of  those  lower 
parts,  which  he  had  likewise  inflicted  on  him.  The  father, 
having  in  vain  entreated  mercy,  at  length  assented,  and 
caused  a  violent  blow  to  be  struck  on  his  body ;  and  the 
people  around  him  cried  out  lamentably,  as  if  he  had  suf- 
fered mutilation.  The  blind  man  asked  him  where  he  felt 
the  greatest  pain  ?  when  he  replied  in  his  reins,  he  declared 
it  was  false,  and  prepared  to  precipitate  the  boy.  A  second 
blow  was  given,  and  the  lord  of  the  castle  asserting  that  the 
greatest  pains  were  at  his  heart,  the  blind  man  expressing 
his  disbelief,  again  carried  the  boy  to  the  summit  of  the 
tower.  The  third  time,  however,  the  father,  to  save  his 
son,  really  mutilated  himself;  and  when  he  exclaimed  that 
the  greatest  pain  was  in  his  teeth ;  "  It  is  true,"  said  he, 
"  as  a  man  who  has  had  experience  should  be  believed,  and 
thou  ha&t  in  part  revenged  my  injuries.  I  shall  meet  death 
with  more  satisfaction,  and  thou  shalt  neither  beget  any 


THE   MOKASTEET    OP    DE   DOLOEIBrS.  401 

other  son,  nor  receive  comfort  from  this."  Then,  precipi- 
tating himself  and  the  boy  from  the  summit  of  the  tower, 
their  limbs  were  broken,  and  both  instantly  expired.  The 
knight  ordered  a  monastery  to  be  built  on  the  spot  for  the 
soul  of  the  boy,  which  is  still  extant,  and  called  De  Doloribua, 
It  appears  remarkable  to  me  that  the  entire  inheritance 
should  devolve  on  Eichard,  son  of  Tankard,^  governor  of 
the  aforesaid  castle  of  Haverford,  being  the  youngest  son, 
and  having  many  brothers  of  distinguished  character  who 
died  before  him.  In  like  manner  the  dominion  of  South 
Wales  descended  to  Ehys  son  of  G-ruifydh,  owing  to  the 
death  of  several  of  his  brothers.  During  the  childhood  of 
Bichard,  a  holy  man,  named  Oaradoc,  led  a  pious  and  re- 
cluse life  at  St.  Ismael,  in  the  province  of  Eos,^  to  whom 
the  boy  was  often  sent  by  his  parents  vcdth  provisions,  and 
he  so  ingratiated  himself  in  the  eyes  of  the  good  man,  that  he 
very  often  promised  him,  together  with  his  blessing,  the 

^  In  the  life  of  Caradoc  we  find  this  same  person  mentioned  (and 
whom  I  imagine  to  have  been  of  Flemish  extraction)  as  having  been 
very  troublesome  to  the  saint ;  and  he  is  reported  to  have  lost  his  life 
by  falling  down  a  precipice  into  the  sea,  whilst  eager  in  the  pursuit  of 
a  stag. 

2  The  province  of  Eos,  in  which  the  town  of  Haverfordwest  is 
situated,  was  peopled  by  a  colony  of  Flemings  during  the  reign  of  king 
Henry  I.,  of  whicli  the  historian  Hollinshed  gives  the  following  memo- 
rial : — "  A.D.  1107,  about  this  season,  a  greal  part  of  Flanders  being 
drowned  by  an  enundation  or  breaking  in  of  the  sea,  a  great  number  of 
Flemings  came  into  England,  beseeching  the  king  to  have  some  void 
place  assigned  them,  wherein  they  might  inhabit.  At  the  first,  they 
were  appointed  to  the  countrie  lieng  on  the  east  part  of  the  river  of 
Tweed,  but  within  foure  yeres  after,  they  were  removed  into  a  corner 
by  the  sea-side  in  Wales,  called  Penbrokeshire,  to  the  end  they  might 
be  a  defense  there  to  the  English  against  the  unquiet  Welshmen.  It 
should  appeare,  by  some  writers,  that  this  multitude  of  Flemings  con- 
sisted not  of  such  onelie  as  came  over  about  that  time  by  reason  their 
countrie  was  overflowne  with  the  sea  (as  ye  have  heard),  but  of  other 
also  that  arrived  here  long  before,  even  in  the  dales  of  WiUiam  the 
Conquerour,  through  the  freendship  of  the  queene  their  countrie- 
woman,  sithens  wliich  time  their  numbers  so  increased,  that  the  realme 
of  England  was  sore  pestered  with  them  ;  whereupon  king  Henrie  de- 
vised to  place  them  in  Penbrokeshire,  as  well  as  to  avoid  them  out  of 
the  other  parts  of  England,  as  also  by  their  helpe  to  tame  the  bold  and 
presumptuous  fiercenesse  of  the  Welshmen,  which  thing  in  those 
parties  they  brought  verie  well  to  passe  ;  for  after  they  were  settled 
there,  they  valiantlie  resisted  their  enimies,  and  made  verie  «harpe 
warres  upon  them,  sometimes  with  gaine,  and  sometimes  with  losse." 


402  THE   ITI2TEEAET  THEOFaH   WALES. 

portion  of  all  Hs  brothers,  and  the  paternal  inheritance. 
It  happened  that  Eichard,  being  overtaken  by  a  violent 
storm  of  rain,  turned  aside  to  the  hermit's  cell ;  and  being 
unable  to  get  his  hounds  near  him,  either  by  calling,  coaxing, 
or  by  offering  them  food,  the  holy  man  smiled  ;  and  making 
a  gentle  motion  with  his  hand,  brought  them  all  to  him 
immediately.  In  process  of  time,  when  Caradoc '  had 
happily  completed  the  course  of  his  existence.  Tankard, 
father  of  Richard,  violently  detained  his  body,  which  by  his 
last  will  he  had  bequeathed  to  the  church  of  St.  David  ; 
but  being  suddenly  seized  with  a  severe  illness,  he  revoked 
his  command.  When  this  had  happened  to  him  a  second 
and  a  third  time,  and  the  corpse  at  last  was  suffered  to  be 
conveyed  away,  and  was  proceeding  over  the  sands  of  Ni- 
wegal  towards  St.  David's,  a  prodigious  fall  of  rain  inun- 
dated the  whole  country  ;  but  the  conductors  of  the  sacred 
burthen,  on  coming  forth  from  their  shelter,  found  the 
silken  pall,  with  which  the  bier  was  covered,  dry  and  unin- 
jured by  the  storm ;  and  thus  the  miraculous  body  of 
Caradoc  was  brought  into  the  church  of  St.  Andrew  and 
St.  David,  and  with  due  solemnity  deposited  in  the  left 
aisle,  near  the  altar  of  the  holy  proto-martyr  Stephen. 
It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  these  people  (the  Flemings), 

1  St.  Caradoc  was  born  of  a  good  family  in  Brecknockshire,  and 
after  a  liberal  education  at  home,  attached  himself  to  the  court  of  Ehy8 
jirince  of  South  Wales,  whom  he  served  a  long  time  with  dihgence  and 
fidelity.  He  was  much  esteemed  and  beloved  by  him,  till  having  un- 
fortunately lost  two  favourite  greyhounds,  which  had  been  committed 
to  his  care,  that  prince,  in  a  fu.ry,  threatened  his  life ;  upon  which  Ca- 
radoc determined  to  change  masters,  and  made  a  vow  on  the  spot  to 
consecrate  the  remainder  of  his  days  to  God,  by  a  single  and  religious  life. 
He  went  to  Llandaff,  received  from  its  bishop  the  clerical  tonsure  and 
habit,  and  retired  to  the  deserted  church  of  St.  Kined,  and  afterwards 
to  a  still  more  solitary  abode  in  the  Isle  of  Ary,  from  whence  he  was 
taken  prisoner  by  some  Norwegian  pirates,  but  soon  released.  His 
last  place  of  residence  was  at  St.  Ismael,  in  the  province  of  Eos,  where 
he  died  in  1124,  and  was  buried  with  great  honour  in  the  cathedral 
of  St.  David's.  We  must  not  confound  this  retreat  of  Caradoc  with 
the  village  of  St.  Ismael  on  the  borders  of  Milford  Haven.  His  her- 
mitage was  situated  in  the  parish  of  Haroldstone,  near  the  town  of 
Haverfordwest,  whose  churcli  has  St.  Ismael  for  its  patron,  and  pro- 
bably  near  a  plar;e'  called  Poorfield,  the  common  on  which  Haverford- 
west races  are  held,  as  there  is  a  well  there  called  Caradoc's  Well, 
round  which,  till  within  these  few  years,  there  was  a  sort  of  vanity  fair, 
where  cakes  were  sold,  and  country  games  celebrated. 


STTPEESTITION    OF    THE    FLEMINGS.  403 

from  tlie  inspection  of  the  right  shoulders  of  rams,  which 
have  been  stripped  of  their  flesh,  and  not  roasted,  hut 
boiled,  can  discover  future  events,  or  those  which  have 
passed  and  remained  long  unknown.^  They  know,  also, 
what  is  transpiring  at  a  distant  place,  by  a  wonderful  art, 
and  a  prophetic  kind  of  spirit.  They  declare,  also,  by  means  of 
signs,  the  undoubted  symptoms  of  approaching  peace  and 
war,  murders  and  fires,  domestic  adulteries,  the  state  of 
the  king,  his  life  and  death.  It  happened  in  our  time,  that 
a  man  of  those  parts,  whose  name  was  William  Mangunel, 
a  person  of  high  rank,  and  excelling  all  others  in  the  afore- 
said art,  had  a  wife  big  with  child  by  her  own  husband's 
grandson.  Well  aware  of  the  fact,  he  ordered  a  ram  from 
his  own  flock  to  be  sent  to  his  wife,  as  a  present  from  her 
neighbour,  which  was  carried  to  the  cook,  and  dressed.  At 
dinner,  the  husband  purposely  gave  the  shoulder-bone  of 
the  ram,  properly  cleaned,  to  his  wife,  who  was  also  well 
skilled  in  this  art,  for  her  examination  ;  when,  having  for  a 
short  time  examined  the  secret  marks,  she  smiled,  and 
threw  the  oracle  down  on  the  table.  Her  husband,  dis- 
sembling, earnestly  demanded  the  cause  of  her  smiling,  and 
the  explanation  of  the  matter.  Overcome  by  his  entreaties, 
she  answered  :  "  The  man  to  whose  fold  this  ram  belongs, 
has  an  adulterous  wife,  at  this  time  pregnant  by  the  com- 
mission of  incest  with  his  own  grandson."  The  husband, 
with  a  sorrowful  and  dejected  countenance,  replied  :  "  Ton 
deliver,  indeed,  an  oracle  supported  by  too  much  truth, 
which  I  have  so  much  more  reason  to  lament,  as  the  igno- 
miny you  have  published  redounds  to  my  own  injury." 
The  woman,  thus  detected,  and  unable  to  dissemble  her 
confusion,  betrayed  the  inward  feelings  of  her  mind  by  ex- 
ternal signs ;  shame  and  sorrow  urging  her  by  turns,  and 
manifesting  themselves,  now  by  blushes,  now  by  pale- 
ness, and  lastly  (according  to  the  custom  of  women),  by 
tears.  The  shoulder  of  a  goat  was  also  once  brought  to  a 
certain  person,  instead  of  a  ram's — both  being  alike,  when 

1  This  curious  superstition  is  still  preserved,  in  a  debased  form, 
among  the  descendants  of  the  Flemish  population  of  this  district, 
where  the  young  women  practise  a  sort  of  divination  with  the  blade- 
bone  of  a  shoulder  of  mutton  to  discover  who  will  be  their  sweetheart. 
It  is  still  more  curious  that  Wilham  de  Kubruquis,  in  the  thirteenth 
century,  found  the  same  superstition  existing  among  the  Tartars. 


404  THE    ITIKEEAIli:    THEOUGH   WALES. 

cleaned;  who,  observing  for  a  short  time  the  lines  and 
marks,  exclaimed,  "  Unhappy  cattle,  that  never  was  multi- 
plied !  unhappy,  likewise,  the  owner  of  the  cattle,  who  never 
had  more  than  three  or  four  in  one  flock  !"  Many  persons, 
a  year  and  a  half  before  the  event,  foresaw,  by  the  means  of 
shoulder-bones,  the  destruction  of  their  country,  after  the 
decease  of  king  Henry  I.,  and,  selling  all  their  possessions, 
left  their  homes,  and  escaped  the  impending  ruin. 

It  happened  also  in  Flanders,  from  whence  this  people 
came,  that  a  certain  man  sent  a  similar  bone  to  a  neighbour 
for  his  inspection  ;  and  the  person  who  carried  it,  on  passing 
over  a  ditch,  broke  wind,  and  wished  it  in  the  nostrils  of 
the  man  on  whose  account  he  was  thus  troubled.  The  per- 
son to  whom  the  bone  was  taken,  on  examination,  said, 
"  May  you  have  in  your  own  nose,  that  which  you  wished 
to  be  in  mine."  In  our  time,  a  soothsayer,  on  the  inspec- 
tion of  a  bone,  discovered  not  only  a  theft,  and  the  manner  of 
it,  but  the  thief  himself,  and  all  the  attendant  circumstances  ; 
he  heard  also  the  striking  of  a  bell,  and  the  sound  of  a 
trumpet,  as  if  those  things  which  were  past  were  still  per- 
forming. It  is  wonderful,  therefore,  that  these  bones,  like 
all  unlawful  conjurations,  should  represent,  by  a  counterfeit 
similitude  to  the  eyes  and  ears,  things  which  are  passed,  as 
well  as  those  which  are  now  going  on. 

CHAPTER  XII. 

OF    PENBEOCH. 

The  province  of  Penbroch  adjoins  the  southern  part  of  the 
territory  of  Eos,  and  is  separated  from  it  by  an  arm  of  the 
sea.  Its  principal  city,  and  the  metropolis  of  Demetia,  is 
situated  on  an  oblong  rocky  eminence,  extending  with  two 
branches  from  Milford  Haven,  from  whence  it  derived  the 
name  of  Penbroch,  which  signifies  the  head  of  the  aestuary. 
Arnulph  de  Montgomery,^  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  I., 
erected  here  a  slender  fortress  with  stakes  and  turf,  which, 
on  returning  to  England,  he  consigned  to  the  care  of  Giral- 

^  Araulph,  younger  son  of  Roger  de  Mountgomeiy,  did  his  homage 
for  Dyvet,  and  is  said,  by  our  author,  to  have  first  erected  a  slender  for- 
tress with  stakes  and  turf  at  Pembroke,  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  I., 
wliich,  however,  appears  to  have  been  so  strong,  as  to  have  resisted  the 
hostile  attack  of  Cadogan  ap  Blethyn  in  1092,  and  of  several  lords  of 
North  Wales,  in  1094. 


SIEGE   OE    PEMBEOKE.  405 

dus  de  Windesor/  his  constable  and  lieutenant-general,  a 
worthy  and  discreet  man.  Immediately  on  the  death  of 
Khys  son  of  Theodor,  who  a  short  time  before  had  been 
slain  by  the  treachery  of  his  own  troops  at  Brecheinoc, 
leaving  his  son,  Grufiydh,  a  child,  the  inhabitants  of  South 
Wales  besieged  the  castle.  One  night,  when  fifteen  soldiers 
had  deserted,  and  endeavoured  to  escape  from  the  castle  in 
a  small  boat,  on  the  following  morning  Giraldus  invested 
their  armour  bearers  with  the  arms  and  estates  of  their 
masters,  and  decorated  them  with  the  military  order.  The 
garrison  being,  from  the  length  of  the  siege,  reduced  to  the 
utmost  want  of  provisions,  the  constable,  with  great  pru- 
dence and  flattering  hopes  of  success,  caused  four  hogs, 
which  yet  remained,  to  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  thrown 
down  to  the  enemy  from  the  fortifications.  The  next  day,  hav- 
ing again  recourse  to  a  more  refined  stratagem,  he  contrived 
that  a  letter,  sealed  with  his  own  signet,  should  be  found 
before  the  house  of  Wilfred,^  bishop  of  St.  David's,  who 
was  then  by  chance  in  that  neighbourhood,  as  if  accidentally 
dropped,  stating  that  there  would  be  no  necessity  of  solicit- 
ing the  assistance  of  earl  Arnulph  for  the  next  four  months 
to  come.  The  contents  of  these  letters  being  made  known 
to  the  army,  the  troops  abandoned  the  siege  of  the  castl^, 
and  retired  to  their  own  homes.  Giraldus,  in  order  to  make 
himself  and  his  dependents  more  secure,  married  Nest,  the 
sister  of  Grufiydh,  prince  of  South  Wales,  by  whom  he  had 

1  Walter  Fitz-Otber,  at  the  time  of  the  general  survey  of  Eng- 
land by  WilHam  the  Conqueror,  was  castellan  of  "Windsor,  warden 
of  the  forests  in  Berkshire,  and  possessed  several  lordships  in  the 
counties  of  Middlesex,  Hampshire,  and  Buckinghamshii*e,  which 
dominus  Otherus  is  said  to  have  held  in  the  time  of  Edward 
the  Confessor.  William,  the  eldest  son  of  Walter,  took  the  sur- 
name of  Windsor  from  his  father's  office,  and  was  ancestor  to  the 
lords  Windsor,  who  have  since  been  created  earls  of  Plymouth :  and 
from  Q-erald,  brother  of  William,  the  Geralds,  Fitz-geralds,  and  many 
other  families  are  Uneally  descended.  The  Grerald  here  mentioned  by 
Giraldus  is  sometimes  surnamed  De  Windsor,  and  also  Fitz- Walter,  i.  e, 
the  son  of  Walter  ;  having  slain  Owen,  son  of  Cadogan  ap  Blethyn, 
chief  lord  of  Cardiganshire,  he  was  made  president  of  the  county  o[ 
Pembroke.     See  the  pedigree  prefixed  to  the  Yaticinal  History. 

2  Wilfred  is  mentioned  by  Browne  Willis  in  his  list  of  bishops  of  St. 
David's,  as  the  forty-seventh,  under  the  title  of  Wilfride,  or  Griffin:  ht 
died  about  tlie  year  1116. 


406  THE    ITlI<fEEAET    THEOUGH   WALES. 

an  illustrious  progeny  of  both  sexes ;  and  by  whose  means 
both  the  maritime  parts  of  South  Wales  were  retained  by 
the  English,  and  the  walls  of  Ireland  afterwards  stormed, 
as  our  Yaticinal  History  declares. 

In  our  time,  a  person  residing  at  the  castle  of  Penbroch/ 
found  a  brood  of  young  weasels  concealed  within  a  fleece  in 
his  dwelling  house,  which  he  carefully  removed  and  hid. 
The  mother,  irritated  at  the  loss  of  her  young,  which  she  had 
searched  for  in  vain,  went  to  a  vessel  of  milk  that  had  been 
set  aside  for  the  use  of  the  master's  son,  and  raising  herself 
up,  polluted  it  with  her  deadly  poison  ;  thus  revenging,  as  it 
were,  the  loss  of  her  young,  "by  the  destruction  of  the  child. 
The  man,  observing  what  passed,  carried  the  fleece  back  to 
its  former  place ;  when  the  weasel,  agitated  by  maternal 
solicitude,  between  hope  and  fear,  on  finding  again  her 
young,  began  to  testify  her  joy  by  her  cries  and  actions,  and 
returning  quickly  to  the  vessel,  overthrew  it ;  thus,  in  grati- 
tude for  the  recovery  of  her  own  off'spring,  saving  that  of 
her  host  from  danger.  In  another  place,  an  animal  of  the 
same  species  had  brought  out  her  young  into  a  plain  for  the 
enjoyment  of  the  sun  and  air  ;  when  an  insidious  kite  car- 
ried ofl"  one  of  them.  Concealing  herself  with  the  remainder 
behind  some  shrubs,  grief  suggested  to  her  a  stratagem  of 
exquisite  revenge ;  she  extended  herself  on  a  heap  of  earth, 
as  if  dead,  within  sight  of  the  plunderer,  and  (as  success 
always  increases  avidity)  the  bird  immediately  seized  her 
and  flew  away,  but  soon  fell  down  dead  by  the  bite  of  the 
poisonous  animal. 

The  castle  called  Maenor  Pyrr,^  that  is,  the  mansion  of 

^  The  present  castle  of  Pembroke  differs  widely  from  the  slender 
fortress  liere  described  by  our  author  as  being  first  erected  by 
Amulph  de  Mountgomery  ;  it  is  spacious,  well  built,  and  strongly  sit- 
uated on  a  rock  overhanging  a  branch  of  Milford  Haven.  It  still  pre- 
serves much  of  its  Norman  character  ;  the  lofty  round  tower,  with  an 
arched  roof  of  stone,  is  a  most  grand  and  conspicuous  object,  rearing 
its  majestic  summit  high  above  every  other  part  of  the  castle,  which 
appears  to  have  had  three  stories  besides  the  ground  floor.  The  walls 
are  nearly  fourteen  feet  thick,  and  the  tower  is  in  height  about  sixty. 
A  natural  cavern,  called  the  Wogan,  which  penetrates  for  a  considerable 
way  under  the  castle,  and  opens  to  the  river,  merits  the  traveller's  at- 
tention. 

'  Maenor  Pyrr,  now  known  by  the  name  of  Manorbeer,  is  a  small 


DESCEIPTION    OF    MANORBEEtt.  407 

Pjrrus,  who  also  possessed  tlie  island  of  Chaldey,  which  the 
Welsh  call  Injs  Pyrr,  or  the  island  of  Pyrrus,  is  distant 
ahout  three  miles  from  Penbroch.  It  is  excellently  well 
defended  by  turrets  and  bulwarks,  and  is  situated  on  the 
Bummit  of  a  hill  extending  on  the  western  side  towards  the 
sea-port,  having  on  the  northern  and  southern  sides  a  fine 
fish-pond  under  its  walls,  as  conspicuous  for  its  grand  ap- 
pearance, as  for  the  depth  of  its  waters,  and  a  beautiful 
orchard  on  the  same  side,  inclosed  on  one  part  by  a  vineyard, 
and  on  the  other  by  a  wood,  remarkable  for  the  projection 
of  its  rocks,  and  the  height  of  its  hazel  trees.  On  the  right 
hand  of  the  promontory,  between  the  castle  and  the  church, 
near  the  site  of  a  very  large  lake  and  mill,  a  rivulet  of  never- 
failing  water  flows  through  a  valley,  rendered  sandy  by  the 
violence  of  the  winds.  Towards  the  west,  the  Severn  sea, 
bending  its  course  to  Ireland,  enters  a  hollow  bay  at  some 
distance  from  the  castle ;  and  the  southern  rocks,  if  extended 
a  little  further  towards  the  north,  would  render  it  a  most 
excellent  harbour  for  shipping.  Prom  this  point  of  sight, 
you  will  see  almost  all  the  ships  from  Great  Britain,  which 
the  east  wind  drives  upon  the  Irish  coast,  daringly  brave  the 
inconstant  waves  and  raging  sea.  This  country  is  well  sup- 
plied with  corn,  sea-fish,  and  imported  wines ;  and  what  is 
preferable  to  every  other  advantage,  from  its  vicinity  to  Ire- 
land, it  is  tempered  by  a  salubrious  air.  Demetia,  therefore, 
with  its  seven  cantreds,  is  the  most  beautiful,  as  well  as  the 
most  pov\erful  district  of  Wales  ;  Penbroch,  the  finest  part 

village  on  the  sea  coast,  between  Tenby  and  Pembroke,  with  the  re- 
maining shell  of  a  large  castle.  Our  author  has  given  a  far-fetched  ety- 
mology to  this  castle  and  the  adjoining  island,  in  calling  them  the  man- 
«ion  and  island  of  Pyrrhus :  a  much  more  natural  and  congenial  con- 
jecture may  be  made  in  supposing  Maenor  Pyrr  to  be  derived  from 
Maenor,  a  Manor,  and  Pyrr  the  pkiral  of  Per,  a  lord  ;  i.  e.  the  Manor 
of  the  lords,  and,  consequently,  Inys  Pyrr,  the  Island  of  the  lords.  A» 
no  mention  whatever  is  made  of  this  castle  in  the  Welsh  Chronicle,  I 
am  inclined  to  think  it  was  only  a  castellated  mansion,  and  therefore 
considered  of  no  military  importance  in  those  days  of  continued  war- 
fare throughout  Wales.  It  is  one  of  the  most  interesting  spots  in  our 
author's  Itinerary,  for  it  was  the  property  of  the  Barri  family,  and  the 
birth-place  of  Giraldus  ;  in  the  parish  church,  the  sepulchral  effigy  of 
a  near  relation,  perhaps  a  brother,  is  still  extant,  in  good  preservatioD. 
Our  author  has  evidently  made  a  digression  in  order  to  describe  thii 
place. 


408  THE    ITINERARY    THEOUGH    WALES. 

of  the  province  of  Demetia ;  and  tlie  place  I  have  just  de- 
scribed, the  most  delightful  part  of  Penbroch.  It  is  evident, 
therefore,  that  Maenor  Pirr  is  the  pleasantest  spot  in  Wales  ; 
and  the  author  may  be  pardoued  for  having  thus  extolled  his 
native  soil,  his  genial  territory,  with  a  profusion  of  praise 
and  admiration. 

In  this  part  of  Penbroch,  unclean  spirits  have  conversed, 
not  visibly,  but  sensibly,  with  mankind  ;  first  in  the  house 
of  Stephen  Wiriet,'  and  afterwards  in  the  house  of  William 
Not  y  manifesting  their  presence  by  throwing  dirt  at  them, 
and  more  with  a  view  of  mockery  than  of  injury.  In  the  house 
of  William,  they  cut  holes  in  the  linen  and  woollen  gar- 
ments, much  to  the  loss  of  the  owner  of  the  house  and  his 
guests  ;  nor  could  any  precaution,  or  even  bolts,  secure 
them  from  these  inconveniences.  In  the  house  of  Stephen, 
the  spirit  in  a  more  extraordinary  manner  conversed  with 
men,  and,  in  reply  to  their  taunts,  upbraided  them  openly 
with  every  thing  they  had  done  from  their  birth,  and  which 
they  were  not  willing  should  be  known  or  heard  by  others. 
I  do  not  presume  to  assign  the  cause  of  this  event,  except 
that  it  is  said  to  be  the  presage  of  a  sudden  change  from 
poverty  to  riches,  or  rather  from  affluence  to  poverty  and 
distress ;  as  it  was  found  to  be  the  case  in  both  these  in- 
stances. And  it  appears  to  me  very  extraordinary  that  these 
places  could  not  be  purified  from  such  illusions,  either  by 
the  sprinkling  of  holy  water,  or  the  assistance  of  any  other 
religious  ceremony  ;  for  the  priests  themselves,  though  pro- 
tected by  the  crucifix,  or  the  holy  water,  on  devoutly  enter- 
ing the  house,  were  equally  subject  to  the  same  insults. 
Prom  whence  it  appears  that  things  pertaining  to  the  sacra- 
ments, as  well  as  the  sacraments  themselves,  defend  us  from 
hurtful,  but  not  from  harmless  things  ;  from  annoyances,  but 
not  from  illusions.  It  is  worthy  of  note,  that  in  our  time,  a 
woman  in  Poitou  was  possessed  by  a  demon,  who,  through 
her  mouth,  artfully  and  acutely  disputed  with  the  learned. 

'  The  house  of  Stepnen  Wirict  was,  I  presume,  Orielton.  There  is 
a  monument  in  the  church  of  St.  Nicholas,  at  Pembroke,  to  the  memory 
of  John,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Hugh  Owen,  of  Boden,  in  Anglesea, 
knight,  and  Ehzabeth,  daughter  and  heir  of  George  Wiriet,  of  Oriel- 
ton,  A.D.  1612. 

'•'  The  family  name  of  Not,  or  Nott,  still  exists  in  Pembrokeshir©. 


SUPEESTITIOUS   ANECDOTES.  400 

He  sometimes  upbraided  people  with  their  secret  actions, 

and  those  things  which  they  wished  not  to  hear  ;  but  when 
either  the  books  of  the  gospel,  or  the  relics  of  saints,  were 
placed  upon  the  mouth  of  the  possessed,  he  fled  to  the 
lower  part  of  her  throat  ;  and  when  they  were  removed 
thither,  he  descended  into  her  belly.  His  appearance  was  in- 
dicated by  certain  inflations  and  convulsions  of  the  parts 
which  he  possessed,  and  when  the  relics  were  again  placed 
in  the  lower  parts,  he  directly  returned  to  the  upper.  At 
length,  when  they  brought  the  body  of  Christ,  and  gave  it 
to  the  patient,  the  demon  answered,  "  Ye  fools,  you  are 
doing  nothing,  for  what  you  give  her  is  not  the  food  of  the 
body,  but  of  the  soul;  and  my  power  is  confined  to  the 
body,  not  to  the  soul,"  But  when  those  persons  whom  he 
had  upbraided  with  their  more  serious  actions,  had  confessed, 
and  returned  from  penance,  he  reproached  them  no  more. 
"  I  have  known,  indeed,"  says  he,  "  I  have  known,  but  now 
I  know  not,  (he  spake  this  as  it  were  a  reproach  to  others), 
and  I  hold  my  tongue,  for  what  I  know,  I  know  not."  From 
which  it  appears,  that  after  confession  and  penance,  the 
demons  either  do  not  know  the  sins  of  men,  or  do  not  know 
them  to  their  injury  and  disgrace ;  because,  as  Augustine 
says,  "  If  man  conceals,  God  discovers ;  if  man  discovers, 
God  conceals." 

Some  people  are  surprised  that  hghtning  often  strikes  our 
places  of  worship,  and  damages  the  crosses  and  images  of 
him  who  was  crucified,  before  the  eyes  of  one  who  seeth  all 
things,  and  permits  these  circumstances  to  happen  j  to  whom 
I  shall  only  answer  with  Ovid, 

*'  Summa  petit  livor,  perflant  altissima  venti, 

Summa  petimt  dextra  fulmina  missa  Jovis." 

On  the  same  subject,  Peter  Abelard,  in  the  presence  of 
Philip  king  of  France,  is  said  to  have  answered  a  Jew,  who 
urged  these  and  similar  things  against  the  faith.  "  It  is 
true  that  the  lightning  descending  from  on  high,  directs  it- 
self most  commonly  to  the  highest  object  on  earth,  and  to 
those  most  resembling  its  own  nature ;  it  never,  therefore, 
injures  your  synagogues,  because  no  man  ever  saw  or  heard 
of  its  falling  upon  a  privy."  An  event  worthy  of  note, 
happened  in  our  time  in  Prance.     During  a  contention  bo« 


410  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOUaH  WALES. 

trreen  some  monks  of  the  Cistercian  order,  and  a  certain 
knight,  about  the  limits  of  their  fields  and  lands,  a  violent 
tempest,  in  one  night,  utterly  destroyed  and  ruined  the  cul- 
tivated grounds  of  the  monks,  while  the  adjoining  territory 
of  the  knight  remained  undamaged.  On  which  occasion  he 
insolently  inveighed  against  the  fraternity,  and  publicly  as- 
serted that  divine  vengeance  had  thus  punished  them  for 
unlawfully  keeping  possession  of  his  land;  to  which  the 
abbot  wittily  replied,  "  It  is  by  no  means  so ;  but  that  the 
knight  had  more  friends  in  that  riding  than  the  monastery ;" 
and  he  clearly  demonstrated  that,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
monks  had  more  enemies  in  it. 

In  the  province  of  Penbroch,  another  instance  occurred, 
about  the  same  time,  of  a  spirit's  appearing  in  the  house  of 
Elidore  de  Stakepole,^  not  only  sensibly,  but  visibly,  under 
the  form  of  a  red-haired  young  man,  who  called  himself 
Simon.  Eirst  seizing  the  keys  from  the  person  to  whom  they 
were  entrusted,  he  impudently  assumed  the  steward's  ofl&ce, 
which  he  managed  so  prudently  and  providently,  that  all 
things  seemed  to  abound  under  his  care,  and  there  was  no 
deficiency  in  the  house.  "Whatever  the  master  or  mistress 
secretly  thought  of  having  for  their  daily  use  or  provision, 
he  procured  with  wonderful  agility,  and  without  any  pre- 
vious directions,  saying,  "  You  wished  that  to  be  done,  and 
it  shall  be  done  for  you."  He  was  also  well  acquainted  with 
their  treasures  and  secret  hoards,  and  sometimes  upbraided 
them  on  that  account ;  for  as  often  as  they  seemed  to  act 
sparingly  and  avariciously,  he  used  to  say,  "  Why  are  you 
afraid  to  spend  that  heap  of  gold  or  silver,  since  your  lives 
are  of  so  short  duration,  and  the  money  you  so  cautiously 
hoard  up  will  never  do  you  any  service  ?"  He  gave  the 
choicest  meat  and  drink  to  the  rustics  and  hired  servants, 
saying  that  "  Those  persons  should  be  abundantly  supplied, 
by  whose  labours  they  were  acquired."  Whatever  he  deter- 
mined should  be  done,  whether  pleasing  or  displeasing  to 

'  There  are  two  churches  in  Pembrokeshire  called  Staetpoole,  one  of 
which,  called  Stackpoole  Elidor,  derived  its  name  probably  from  the 
Elidore  de  Stakepole  mentioned  in  this  chapter  by  Giraldus.  It  con- 
tains several  ancient  monuments,  and  amongst  them  the  effigies  of  a 
cross-legged  knight,  which  has  bee-i  for  many  years  attributed  to  th« 
aforesaid  Elidore. 


THE    DEMOI^    STEWAED.  411 

his  master  or  mistress  (for,  as  we  liave  said  before,  be  knew 
all  tbeir  secrets),  be  completed  in  bis  usual  expeditious 
manner,  witbout  their  consent.  He  never  went  to  cburcb, 
or  uttered  one  Catholic  word.  He  did  not  sleep  in  tbe 
bouse,  but  was  ready  at  bis  office  in  tbe  morning.  He  was 
at  lengtb  observed  by  some  of  tbe  family  to  bold  bis  nigbtly 
converse  near  a  mill  and  a  pool  of  water  ;  upon  wbicb  dis- 
covery, be  was  summoned  tbe  next  morning  before  tbe 
master  of  tbe  bouse  and  bis  lady,  and,  receiving  bis  dia- 
cbarge,  delivered  up  tbe  keys,  wliicb  be  bad  beld  for  up- 
wards of  forty  days.  Beiug  earnestly  interrogated,  at  bis 
departure,  wbo  be  was  ?  be  answered,  "  Tbat  be  was  be- 
gotten upon  tbe  wife  of  a  rustic  in  tbat  parisb,  by  a  demon, 
in  tbe  shape  of  her  husband,  naming  tbe  man,  and  bis 
fatber-in-law,  tben  dead,  and  bis  motber,  still  alive ;  tbe 
trutb  of  wbicb  tbe  woman,  upon  examination,  openly  avowed. 
A  similar  circumstance  bappened  in  our  time  in  Denmark. 
A  certain  unknown  priest  paid  court  to  tbe  arcbbishop,  and, 
from  bis  obsequious  bebaviour  and  discreet  conduct,  bis 
general  knowledge  of  letters  and  quick  memory,  soon  con- 
tracted a  great  familiarity  witb  bim.  Conversing  one  day 
witb  tbe  arcbbisbop  about  ancient  bistories  and  unknown 
events,  on  wbicb  topic  be  most  frequently  beard  bim  with 
pleasure,  it  bappened  tbat  wben  tbe  subject  of  tbeir  dis- 
course was  tbe  incarnation  of  our  Lord,  be  said,  amongst 
otber  tilings,  "  Before  Cbrist  assumed  buman  nature,  tbe 
demons  bad  great  power  over  mankind,  wbicb,  at  bis  com- 
ing, was  mucb  diminished ;  insomucb  that  tbey  were  dis- 
persed on  every  side,  and  fled  from  bis  presence.  Some 
precipitated  tbemselves  into  tbe  sea,  otbers  into  tbe  bollow 
parts  of  trees,  or  tbe  clefts  of  rocks  ;  and  I  myself  leaped 
into  a  well ;"  on  wbicb  be  blusbed  for  sbame,  and  took  bis 
departure.  Tbe  arcbbisbop,  and  tbose  wbo  were  witb  bim, 
being  greatly  astonished  at  tbat  speecb,  began  to  ask  ques- 
tions by  turns,  and  form  conjectures ;  and  having  waited 
some  time  (for  be  was  expected  to  return  soon),  the  arcb- 
bisbop ordered  some  of  bis  attendants  to  call  bim,  but  be 
was  sougbt  for  in  vain,  and  never  re-appeared.  Soon  after- 
wards, two  priests,  wbom  tbe  arcbbisbop  bad  sent  to  Rome, 
returned ;  and  wben  this  event  was  related  to  tbem,  tbey 
began  to  inquire  tbe  day  and  bour  on  wbicb  tbe  circum- 


412  THE    ITINEEAEY    THEOFGH   WALES. 

stance  had  happened  ?  On  being  told  it,  they  declared 
that  on  the  very  same  day  and  hour  he  had  met  them  on 
the  Alps,  saying,  that  he  had  been  sent  to  the  court  of 
Rome,  on  account  of  some  business  of  his  master's  (mean- 
ing the  archbishop),  which  had  lately  occurred.  And  thus 
it  was  proved,  that  a  demon  had  deluded  them  under  a 
human  form. 

I  ought  not  to  omit  mentioning  the  falcons  of  these  parts, 
which  are  large,  and  of  a  generous  kind,  and  exercise  a  most 
severe  tyranny  over  the  river  and  land  birds.  King  Henry 
II.  remained  here  some  time,  makiug  preparations  for  his 
voyage  to  Ireland ;  and  being  desirous  of  taking  the  diver- 
sion of  hawking,  he  accidentally  saw  a  noble  falcon  perched 
upon  a  rock.  Groing  sideways  round  him,  he  let  loose  a 
fine  Norway  hawk,  which  he  carried  on  his  left  hand.  The 
falcon,  though  at  first  slower  in  its  flight,  soaring  up  to  a 
great  height,  burning  with  resentment,  and  in  his  turn  be- 
coming the  aggressor,  rushed  down  upon  his  adversary  with 
the  greatest  impetuosity,  and  by  a  violent  blow  struck  the 
hawk  dead  at  the  feet  of  the  king.  IVom  that  time  the 
king  sent  every  year,  about  the  breeding  season,  for  the 
falcons^  of  this  country,  which  are  produced  on  the  sea 
cliffs ;  nor  can  better  be  found  in  any  part  of  his  dominions. 
But  let  us  now  return  to  our  Itinerary. 

CHAPTER  XIII. 

OE   THE   PEOGEESS    BY    CAMEOS   AJ^B   NIWEGAL. 

Feom  Haverford  we  proceeded  on  our  journey  to  Menevia, 
distant  from  thence  about  twelve  miles,  and  passed  through 
Camros,^  where,  in  the  reign  of  king  Stephen,  the  relations 
and  friends  of  a  distinguished  young  man,  Griraldus,  son  of 
William,  revenged  his  death  by  a  too  severe  retaliation  on 

1  Eamsey  Island,  near  St.  David's,  was  always  famous  for  its  breed 
of  falcons. 

2  Cambros,  a  small  village,  containing  nothing  worthy  of  remark, 
excepting  a  large  tumulus.  It  appears,  by  this  route  of  the  Crusaders, 
that  the  ancient  road  to  Menevia,  or  St.  David's,  led  through  Camros, 
whereas  the  present  turnpike  road  lies  a  mile  and  a  half  to  the  left  of  it. 
It  then  descends  to  Niwegal  Sands,  and  passes  near  the  picturesque 
iifctle  harbour  of  Solvach,  situated  in  a  deep  and  narrow  cove,  sur- 
rounded by  high  rocks. 


K-EWGILL    SANDS.  413 

the  men  of  Eos.  "We  then  passed  over  Niwegal  sands,  at 
which  place  (during  the  winter  that  king  Henry  II.  spent 
in  Ireland),  as  well  as  in  almost  all  the  other  western 
ports,  a  very  remarkable  circumstance  occurred.  The  sandy 
shores  of  South  Wales,  being  laid  bare  by  the  extraordinary 
violence  of  a  storm,  the  surface  of  the  earth,  which  had  been 
covered  for  many  ages,  re-appeared,  and  discovered  the 
trunks  of  trees  cut  off,  standing  in  the  very  sea  itself,  the 
strokes  of  the  hatchet  appearing  as  if  made  only  yesterday.^ 
The  soil  was  very  black,  and  the  wood  like  ebony.  By  a 
wonderful  revolution,  the  road  for  ships  became  impas- 
sable, and  looked,  not  like  a  shore,  but  like  a  grove  cut 
down,  perhaps,  at  the  time  of  the  deluge,  or  not  long  after, 
but  certainly  in  very  remote  ages,  being  by  degrees  con- 
sumed and  swallowed  up  by  the  violence  and  encroachments 
of  the  sea.  During  the  same  tempest  many  sea  fish  were 
driven,  by  the  violence  of  the  wind  and  waves,  upon  dry 
land.  We  were  well  lodged  at  St.  David's  by  Peter,  bishop 
of  the  see,  a  liberal  man,  who  had  hitherto  accompanied  us 
during  the  whole  of  our  journey. 

1  The  remains  of  vast  submerged  forests  are  commonly  found  on 
many  parts  of  the  coast  of  Wales,  especially  in  the  north.  G-iraldm 
has  elsewhere  spoken  of  this  event  in  the  Yaticinal  Historyj  book  i. 
ehap.  35. 


BOOK  11. 


PEEFACE. 

Since,  therefore,  St.  David's  is  the  head,  and  in  times  past 
was  the  metropolitan,  city  of  AVales,  though  now,  alas !  re- 
tainino"  more  of  the  name  than  of  the  omen}  yet  I  have  not 
forborne  to  weep  over  the  obsequies  of  our  ancient  and  un- 
doubted mother,  to  follow  the  mournful  hearse,  and  to  deplore 
with  tearful  sighs  the  ashes  of  our  half-buried  matron. 
I  shall,  therefore,  endeavour  briefly  to  declare  to  you,  in 
what  manner,  from  whence,  and  from  what  period  the  pall 
was  first  brought  to  St.  David's,  and  how  it  was  taken 
away  ;  how  many  prelates  were  invested  with  the  pall ;  and 
how  many  were  despoiled  thereof;  together  with  their  res- 
pective names  to  this  present  day. 

CHAPTER  I. 

or    THE    SEE    OF    SAINT    DATID'S. 

We  are  informed  by  the  British  histories,  that  Dubricius, 
archbishop  of  Caerleon,  sensible  of  the  infirmities  of  age,  or 
rather  being  desirous  of  leading  a  life  of  contemplation, 
resigned  his  honours  to  David,  who  is  said  to  have  been 
uncle  to  king  Arthur ;  and  by  his  interest  the  see  was  trans- 
lated to  Menevia,  although  Caerleon,  as  we  have  observed 

•  Giraldus,  ever  glad  to  pun  upon  words,  here  opposes  the  word  nomen 
to  omen.  '*  Plus  noyninis  habens  quum  ominis."  Being  a  man  of  extra- 
ordinary reading,  and  conversant  with  the  works  of  the  Greek  and 
Roman  writers,  he  may  have  perhaps  borrowed  this  expression  from 
Plautus,  who  in  his  play  of  Persa  has  introduced  a  young  female, 
offered  for  sale  to  a  pander  of  the  name  of  Dordakis,  who,  in  company 
with  a  knavish  sei-vant  called  Toxilus,  is  introduced  as  putting  questions 
to  the  damsel.  The  dialogue  is  as  follows  :  (Dordalus)  Quid  nomen 
tibi  est?  (Virgo),  Lucridi  nomen  in  patri  fuit.  (Toxilus)  ^ymm 
atque  omen  quantivis  est  jDretii,  &c.  (Dordalus)  Si  te  emam,  mihi  quo- 
que  Lucridem  conndo  fore  te.  Plautus  Delphini,  torn.  ii.  p.  27. — Actus 
ir.,  Scena  iv. 


THE  METEOPOLITAK  SEE  TEAXSLATED  TO  ME2fEYIA.       415 

in  tlie  first  book,  was  mucli  better  adapted  for  the  episcopal 
Bee.^  For  Menevia  is  situated  in  a  most  remote  corner  of 
land  upon  the  Irish  ocean,  the  soil  stoney  and  barren, 
neither  clothed  with  woods,  distinguished  by  rivers,  nor 
adorned  by  meadows,  ever  exposed  to  the  winds  and  tem- 
pests, and  continually  subject  to  the  hostile  attacks  of  the 
Flemings  on  one  side,  and  of  the  Welsh  on  the  other.  Tor 
the  holy  men  who  settled  here,  chose  purposely  such  a  re- 
tired habitation,  that  by  avoiding  the  noise  of  the  world, 
and  preferring  an  heremitical  to  a  pastoral  life,  they  might 
more  freely  provide  for  "  that  part  which  shall  not  be  taken 

'  "  Hie  etenim  angulus  est  supra  Hibernicum  mare  remotissimus ; 
terra  saxosa,  sterilis,  et  infoecunda  ;  nee  silvis  vestita,  nee  fluminibus 
distincta,  nee  pratis  ornata  ;  ventis  solum  et  procellis  semper  esposita." 
— Such  is  the  dreary  and  well-pictured  account  given  by  Giraldus  of 
the  local  situation  of  this  once-celebrated  ecclesiastical  establishment ; 
and  such,  I  fear,  will  every  traveller  find  it  on  his  approach  to  the 
wretched  village  of  St.  David's,  where  misery  and  beggary  stare  him 
fuU  in  the  face,  and  from  whence  the  want  of  even  tolerable  accom- 
modations has  driven  away  many  an  inquisitive  tourist  and  antiquarian. 
Although,  in  the  language  of  the  poet. 


Menevia  plorat 


Curtatos  mitrse  titulos,  et  nomen  inane 
Semisepultse  \irbis," 

yet  hospitality  has  not  deserted  these  mitred  walls,  and  I  should  b€ 
much  wanting  in  gratitude,  were  I  not  to  acknowledge  thus  pubhcly 
the  many  acts  of  friendship  and  civility  which  I  have  experienced 
during  two  successive  pilgrimages  to  the  shrine  of  St.  David. — (Sir  R. 
C.  H)  We  have  now  an  admirable  history  of  the  cathedral  and  see  of 
St.  David's,  by  E.  A.  Freeman,  Esq.,  and  the  Eev.  Basil  Jones.  Ac- 
cording to  his  legend,  Dewi,  or  David,  was  the  son  of  Sandde  ab  Cedig 
ab  Ceredig  ab  Cunedda,  whose  mother  was  Non,  the  daughter  of  Gynyr, 
of  Caer  Gawch,  in  Pembrokeshire,  and  was  one  of  the  most  celebrated 
British  saints,  being  the  founder  of  several  churches  in  Wales.  There 
are  four  dedicated  to  him  in  Radnorshire ;  two  in  Cardiganshu'e  ;  four 
in  Pembrokeshire  ;  two  in  Caermarthenshire  ;  three  in  Brecknockshire  ; 
one  in  Glamorgan  ;  and  three  in  Monmouthshire  ;  and  many  more  wjre 
dedicated  to  his  name  in  aftertimes.  He  is  said  to  have  lived  in  the 
middle  of  the  sixth  century,  and  to  have  been  bishop  of  Caerleon,  which 
was  then  considered  as  the  metropolitan  of  the  Welsh  cluu-ch.  But,  in 
consequence  of  his  father-in-law's  having  given  all  his  lands  in  Pem- 
brokeshire to  the  church,  and  the  former  place  being  too  much  exposed 
to  the  incursions  of  the  Saxons,  Dewi  removed  the  see  to  Mynyw,  which 
afterwards  was  called  Ty  Dewi,  the  house  of  David,  or  St.  Dayid'g, 
after  nis  name. 


416  THE   ITIKEEAET   THEOrGH   WAIES. 

away  ;"  for  David  was  remarkable  for  his  sanctity  and  reli- 
gion, as  the  history  of  his  life  will  testify.  Amongst  the 
many  miracles  recorded  of  him,  three  appear  to  me  the  most 
worthy  of  admiration :  his  origin  and  conception ;  his  pre- 
election thirty  years  before  his  birth ;  and  what  exceeds  all, 
the  sudden  rising  of  the  ground,  at  Brev}^  under  his  feet 
while  preaching,  to  the  great  astonishment  of  all  the  be- 
holders. 

Since  the  time  of  David,  twenty-five  archbishops  presided 
over  the  see  of  Menevia,  whose  names  are  here  subjoined : 
David,  Cenauc,  Eliud,  who  was  also  called  Teilaus,  Ceneu, 
Morwal,  Haerunen,  Elwaed,  Gurnuen,  Lendivord,  Gorwysc, 
Cogan,  Cledauc,  Anian,  Euloed,  Ethelmen,  Elauc,  Malscoed, 
Sadermen,  Catellus,  Sulhaithnai,  Nonis,  Etwal,  Asser,  Ar- 
thuael,  Sampson.  In  the  time  of  Sampson,  the  pall  was 
translated  from  Menevia  in  the  following  manner :  a  dis- 
order called  the  yellow  plague,  and  by  the  physicians  the 
icteric  passion,  of  which  the  people  died  in  great  numbers, 
raged  throughout  Wales,  at  the  time  when  Sampson  held 
the  archiepiscopal  see.  Though  a  holy  man,  and  fearless  of 
death,  he  was  prevailed  upon,  by  the  earnest  intreaties  of 
his  people,  to  go  on  board  a  vessel,  which  was  wafted,  by  a 
south  wind,  to  Britaunia  Armorica,^  where  he  and  his  atten- 
dants were  safely  landed.  The  see  of  Dol  being  at  that 
time  vacant,  he  was  immediately  elected  bishop.  Hence  it 
came  to  pass,  that  on  account  of  the  palP  which  Sampson 

'  Armorica  is  derived  from  the  Celtic  words  Ar  and  Mon,  which  sig- 
nify on  or  near  the  sea,  and  so  called  to  distinguish  it  from  the  more 
inland  parts  of  Britany.  The  maritime  cities  of  Gaul  were  called 
"Armoricae  civitates — Universis  civitatibus  quse  oceanum  attingunt, 
quseque  Gallorum  consuetudine  Ai'moricse  appellantur." — Ccesar^  Com- 
ment, lib.  vii. 

2  The  archiepiscopal  pall  was  at  first  truly  a  mantle  or  upper  vesture 
(as  the  word  imports)  worn  by  the  Roman  emperors,  and  by  Constan- 
tine  permitted  as  an  honour  to  the  pope,  and  by  him  communicated  to 
the  other  patriarchs  ;  and  in  this  form  it  continues  in  the  Eastern  parts  ; 
whereas  at  Eome,  and  in  the  west,  this  title  is  given  to  a  small  portion, 
as  appendix  to  the  first  pallium,  being  (according  to  tlie  description 
given  of  it  by  pope  Innocent  III.)  a  certain  wreath  (as  it  were  the  col- 
lar of  an  order)  of  about  three  fingers  breadth  encompassing  the  neck  ; 
from  which  descended  two  labels,  before  and  behind.  On  the  circle 
are  interwoven  four  purple  crosses,  and  on  each  label,  one  j  and  it  if 
fastened  to  the  upper  garment  with  three  golden  pins.     Cressy,  p.  92. 


SEE  OP  ST.  dayid's.  417 

had  brought  thither  with  him,  the  succeeding  bishops,  even 
to  our  times,  always  retained  it.  But  during  the  presidency 
of  the  archbishop  of  Tours,  this  adventitious  dignity  ceased ; 
yet  our  countrymen,  through  indolence  or  poverty,  or  rather 
owing  to  the  arrival  of  the  English  into  the  island,  and  the 
frequent  hostilities  committed  against  them  by  the  Saxons, 
lost  their  archiepiscopal  honours.  But  until  the  entire  sub- 
jugation of  Wales  by  king  Henry  I.,  the  Welsh  bishops 
were  always  consecrated  by  the  bishop  of  St.  David's  ;  and 
he  was  consecrated  by  his  suffragans,  without  any  profes- 
sion or  submission  being  made  to  any  other  church. 

From  the  time  of  Sampson  to  that  of  king  Henry  I., 
nineteen  bishops  presided  over  this  see  :  Euelin,  Eodherch, 
Elguin,  Lunuerd,  Nergu,  Sulhidir,  Eneuris,  Morgeneu,  who 
was  the  first  bishop  of  St.  David's  who  ate  flesh,  and  was 
there  killed  by  pirates ;  and  he  appeared  to  a  certain  bishop 
in  Ireland  on  the  night  of  his  death,  shewing  his  wounds,  and 
saying,  "  Because  I  ate  flesh,  I  am  become  flesh."  Nathan^ 
Jevan  (who  was  bishop  only  one  night),  Argustel,  Morgen- 
ueth,  Ervin,  Tramerin,  Joseph,  Bleithud,  Sulghein,  Abra- 
ham, "Wilfred.  Since  the  subjugation  of  Wales  to  the  pre- 
sent time,  three  only  have  held  the  see :  in  the  reign  of 
king  Henry  I.,  Bernard;  in  the  reign  of  king  Stephen, 
David  II. ;  and  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  II.,  Peter,  a 
monk  of  the  order  of  Cluny ;  who  all,  by  the  king's  man- 
date, were  consecrated  at  Canterbury ;  as  also  Gi-eoff"rey, 
prior  and  canon  of  Lanthoni,  who  succeeded  them  in  the 
reign  of  king  John,  and  was  preferred  to  this  see  by  the  in- 
terest of  Hubert,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  afterwards 
consecrated  by  him.  We  do  not  hear  that  either  before  or 
after  that  subjugation,  any  archbishop  of  Canterbury  ever 
entered  the  borders  of  Wales,  except  Baldwin,  a  monk  of 
the  Cistercian  order,  abbot  of  Eord,^  and  afterwards  bishop 
of  Worcester,  who  traversed  that  rough,  inaccessible,  and 
remote  country  with  a  laudable  devotion  for  the  service  of 

^  Ford  Abbey  was  situated  in  the  parish  of  Thorncomb,  Devon,  and 
near  the  confines  of  the  county  of  Somerset.  In  1136,  Richard  Fitz- 
Baldwin  de  Brien,  baron  of  Okehampton,  and  sheriff  of  Devonshire, 
brought  an  abbot  and  twelve  Cistercian  monks  to  a  place  called  Bright- 
ley,  in  Devonshire,  from  vrhence  they  were  removed  to  Ford,  in  tha 
your  1141,  by  Adelicia,  sister  and  heiress  to  the  aforesaid  Richard. 

£  £ 


418  THE    TTINEEAET    THEOUGH  WALES. 

the  cross ;  and  as  a  token  of  investiture,  celebrated  mass  in 
all  the  cathedral  churches.  So  that  till  lately  the  see  of  St. 
David's  owed  no  subjection  to  that  of  Canterbury,  as  may  be 
seen  in  the  English  History  of  Bede,  who  says  that  "  Augus- 
tine, bishop  of  the  Angles,  after  the  conversion  of  king 
Ethelfred  and  the  English  people,  called  together  the  bishops 
of  Wales  on  the  confines  of  the  "West  Saxons,  as  legate  of 
the  apostolic  see.  When  the  seven  bishops^  appeared, 
Augustine,  sitting  in  his  chair,  with  Koman  pride,  did  not 
rise  up  at  their  entrance.  Observing  his  haughtiness  (after 
the  example  of  a  holy  anchorite  of  their  nation),  they  im- 
mediately returned,  and  treated  him  and  his  statutes  with 
contempt,  publicly  proclaiming  that  they  would  not  acknow- 
ledge him  for  their  archbishop  ;  alleging,  that  if  he  now  re- 
fused to  rise  up  to  us,  how  much  more  will  he  hold  us  in 
contempt,  if  we  submit  to  be  subject  to  him  ?"  That  there 
were  at  that  time  seven  bishops  in  Wales,  and  now  only  four, 
may  be  thus  accounted  for ;  because  perhaps  there  were 
formerly  more  cathedral  churches  in  Wales  than  there  are 
at  present,  or  the  extent  of  Wales  might  have  been  greater. 
Amongst  so  many  bishops  thus  deprived  of  their  dignity, 
Bernard,  the  first  French  [i.  e.  Norman]  bishop  of  St. 
David's,  alone  defended  the  rights  of  his  church  in  a  public 
manner  ;  and  after  many  expensive  and  vexatious  appeals  to 
the  court  of  Eome,  would  not  have  reclaimed  them  in  vain, 
if  false  witnesses  had  not  publicly  appeared  at  the  council 
of  E-heims,  before  pope  Eagenius,  and  testified  that  he  had 
made  profession  and  submission  to  the  see  of  Canterbury. 
Supported  by  three  auxiliaries,  the  favour  and  intimacy  of 
king  Henry,  a  time  of  peace,  and  consequent  plenty,  he 
boldly  hazarded  the  trial  of  so  great  a  cause,  and  so  confi- 
dent was  he  of  his  just  right,  that  he  sometimes  caused  the 
cross  to  be  carried  before  him  during  his  journey  through 
Wales. 

Bernard,  however  commendable  in  some  particulars,  was 
remarkable  for  his  insufiferable  pride  and  ambition.  Eor  as 
soon  as  he  became  courtier  and  a  creature  of  the  king's, 
panting  after  English  riches  by  means  of  translation,   (a 

1  The  bishops  of  Hereford,  Worcester,  LlandafF,  Bangor,  St  Asaph, 
Llanbadern,  and  Margan,  or  Glamorgan.  This  is  very  fabvilous,  for 
it  is  an  absolute  absurdity  to  suppose  that  there  were  bishops  of  Here- 
ford or  Worcester  at  the  tune  of  Augustine. 


POSITIOif   OF    THE   CATHEDEAL,  419 

malady  under  which  all  the  English  sent  hither  seem  to 
labour),  he  alienated  many  of  the  lands  of  his  church  with- 
out either  advantage  or  profit,  and  disposed  of  others  so  in- 
discreetly and  improvidently,  that  when  ten  carucates^  of 
land  were  required  for  military  purposes,  he  would,  with  a 
liberal  hand,  give  twenty  or  thirty ;  and  of  the  canonical 
rites  and  ordinances  which  he  had  miserably  and  unhappily 
instituted  at  St.  David's,  he  would  hardly  make  use  of  one, 
at  most  only  of  two  or  three.  With  respect  to  the  two  sees  of 
Canterbury  and  St.  David's,  I  will  briefly  explain  my  opinion 
of  their  present  state.  On  one  side,  you  will  see  royal 
favour,  affluence  of  riches,  numerous  and  opulent  suffragan 
bishops,  great  abundance  of  learned  men  and  well  skilled 
in  the  laws  ;  on  the  other  side,  a  deficiency  of  all  these  things, 
and  a  total  want  of  justice ;  on  which  account  the  recovery 
of  its  ancient  rights  will  not  easily  be  effected,  but  by  means 
of  those  great  changes  and  vicissitudes  which  kingdoms  ex- 
perience from  various  and  unexpected  events. 

The  spot  where  the  church  of  St.  David's  stands,  and 
was  founded  in  honour  of  the  apostle  St.  Andrew,  is  called 
the  Yale  of  Eoses ;  which  ought  rather  to  be  named  the 
vale  of  marble,  since  it  abounds  with  one,  and  by  no  means 
with  the  other.  The  river  Alim,  a  muddy  and  unpro- 
ductive rivulet,^  bounding  the  churchyard  on  the  northern 
side,  flows  under  a  marble  stone,  called  Lechlavar,  which  has 
been  polished  by  continual  treading  of  passengers,  and  con- 
cerning the  name,  size,  and  quality  of  which  we  have  treated 
in  our  Yaticinal  History.^  Henry  II.,  on  his  return  from  Ire- 
land, is  said  to  have  passed  over  this  stone,  before  he  devoutly 
entered  the  church  of  St.  Andrew  and  St.  David.  Having 
left  the  following  garrisons  in  Ireland,  namely,  Hugh  de 
Lacy  (to  whom  he  had  given  Meath  in  fee)  in  Dublin,  with 
twenty  knights  ;  Titz-Stephen  and  Maurice  Fitzgerald,  with 
other  twenty  ;  Humphrey  de  Bohun,  Eobert  Fitz -Bernard, 
and    Hugh  de  Grrainville  at  "Waterford,  with    forty ;   and 

^  The  value  of  the  carucate  is  rather  uncertain,  or,  probably,  it  varied 
in  different  districts,  according  to  the  character  of  the  land ;  but  it  is 
considered  to  have  been  usually  equivalent  to  a  hide,  that  is,  to  about 
240  statute  acres. 

^  This  httle  brook  does  not,  in  modem  times,  deserve  the  title  here 
given  to  it  by  Giraldus,  for  it  produces  trout  of  a  most  dehcious  flavour, 

3  See  the  Yaticinal  History,  book  i.  c.  37. 

EE  2 


420  THE    ITINEEAKY    THEOUGH    WALES. 

William  Fitz-Adelm  and  Philip  de  Braose  at  Wexford, 
with  twenty ;  on  the  second  day  of  Easter,  the  king  em- 
barked at  sunrise  on  board  a  vessel  in  the  outward  port  of 
Wexford,  and,  with  a  south  wind,  landed  about  noon  in 
the  harbour  of  Menevia.  Proceeding  towards  the  shrine  of 
St.  David,  habited  like  a  pilgrim,  and  leaning  on  a  staff,  he 
met  at  the  white  gate  a  procession  of  the  canons  of  the 
church  coming  forth  to  receive  him  with  due  honour  and 
reverence.  As  the  procession  solemnly  moved  along,  a 
Welsh  woman  threw  herself  at  the  king's  feet,  and  made  a 
complaint  against  the  bishop  of  the  place,  which  was  ex- 
plained to  the  king  by  an  interpreter.  The  woman,  imme- 
diate attention  not  being  paid  to  her  petition,  with  violent 
gesticulation,  and  a  loud  and  impertinent  voice,  exclaimed 
repeatedly,  "  Eevenge  us  this  day,  Lechlavar !  revenge  us 
and  the  nation  in  this  man !'  On  being  chidden  and  driven 
away  by  those  who  understood  the  British  language,  she 
more  vehemently  and  forcibly  vociferated  in  the  like 
manner,  alluding  to  the  vulgar  fiction  and  proverb  of  Mer- 
lin, "  That  a  king  of  England,  and  conqueror  of  Ireland, 
should  be  wounded  in  that  country  by  a  man  with  a  red 
hand,  and  die  upon  Lechlavar,  on  his  return  through  Mene- 
via." This  was  the  name  of  that  stone  which  serves  as  a 
bridge  over  the  river  Alun,  which  divides  the  cemetery  from 
the  northern  side  of  the  church.  It  was  a  beautiful  piece  of 
marble,  polished  by  the  feet  of  passengers,  ten  feet  in 
length,  six  in  breadth,  and  one  in  thickness.  Lechlavar 
signifies  in  the  British  language  a  talking  stone. ^  There 
was  an  ancient  tradition  respecting  this  stone,  that  at  a 
time  when  a  corpse  was  carried  over  it  for  interment,  it 
broke  forth  into  speech,  and  by  the  eff'ort  cracked  in  the 
middle,  which  fissure  is  still  visible ;  and  on  account  of  this 
barbarous  and  ancient  superstition,  the  corpses  are  no  longer 
brought  over  it.  The  king,  who  had  heard  the  prophecy, 
approaching  the  stone,  stopped  for  a  short  time  at  the  foot 
of  it,  and,  looking  earnestly  at  it,  boldly  passed  over  ;  then, 
turning  round,  and  looking  towards  the  stone,  thus  indig- 
nantly inveighed  against  the  prophet :  "  Who  will  here- 
after give  credit  to  the  lying  Merlin  ?"     A  person  standing 

^  Lechlavar,  so  called  from  the  words  in  Welsh,  Llec,  a  stone,  and 
Llarar,  loquacious. 


THEEAT    OF    WILLIAM    ETJFTJS.  421 

by,  and  observing  what  had  passed,  in  order  to  vindicate 
the  injury  done  to  the  prophet,  replied,  with  a  loud  voice, 
"  Thou  art  not  that  king  by  whom  Ireland  is  to  be  con- 
quered, or  of  whom  Merlin  prophesied !"  The  king  then 
entering  the  church  founded  in  honour  of  St.  Andrew  and 
St.  David,  devoutly  offered  up  his  prayers,  and  heard  mass 
performed  by  a  chaplain,  whom  alone,  out  of  so  large  a  body 
of  priests.  Providence  seems  to  have  kept  fasting  till  that 
hour,  for  this  very  purpose.  Having  supped  at  St.  David's, 
the  king  departed  for  the  castle  of  Haverford,  distant  about 
twelve  miles.  It  appears  very  remarkable  to  me,  that  in 
our  days,  when  David  II.  presided  over  the  see,  the  river 
should  have  flowed  with  wine,  and  that  the  spring,  called 
Pistyll  Dewi,^  or  the  Pipe  of  David,  from  its  flowing 
through  a  pipe  into  the  eastern  side  of  the  churchyard, 
should  have  run  with  milk.  The  birds  also  of  that  place, 
called  jackdaws,  from  being  so  long  unmolested  by  the 
clergy  of  the  church,  were  grown  so  tame  and  domesticated, 
as  not  to  be  afraid  of  persons  dressed  in  black.  In  clear 
weather  the  mountains  of  Ireland  are  visible  from  hence, 
and  the  passage  over  the  Irish  sea  may  be  performed  in  one 
short  day ;  on  which  account  William,  the  son  of  William 
the  Bastard,  and  the  second  of  the  Norman  kings  in  Eng- 
land, who  was  called  Eufus,  and  who  had  penetrated 
far  into  Wales,  on  seeing  Ireland  from  these  rocks,  is  re- 
ported to  have  said,  "  I  will  summon  hither  all  the  ships  of 
my  realm,  and  with  them  make  a  bridge  to  attack  that 
country."  Which  speech  being  related  to  Murchard,  prince 
of  Leinster,  he  paused  awhile,  and  answered,  "Did  the 
king  add  to  this  mighty  threat,  If  Grod  please  ?"  and  being 

1  The  miraculous  origin  of  this  spring  has  been  attributed  to  St. 
David,  and  is  thus  related  in  his  life,  written  by  GrLraldus.  "It  hap- 
pened on  a  certain  day,  when  the  brethren  of  the  church  were  assem- 
bled together,  that  a  general  complaint  was  made  of  the  want  of  clean 
and  pure  water  for  the  performance  of  mass  and  other  religious  solem- 
nities ;  for  the  river  Alun,  which  flows  through  the  vale,  was  muddy, 
and  oftentimes  defective  during  the  simimer  season.  On  hearing  which, 
the  holy  father  David  went  immediately  to  the  cemetery  adjoining  the 
church,  and  having  offered  up  many  long  and  devout  prayers  to  the 
Almighty,  a  spring  of  the  most  transparent  water  s\xddenly  burst  forth 
on  the  spot,  which  was  fully  sufficient  for  all  religious  purposes,  and 
continues  to  flow  to  this  present  day." 


422  THE    ITIKEEAET    THROUGH    WALES. 

informed  that  lie  had  made  no  mention  of  God  in  his  speech^ 
rejoicing  in  such  a  prognostic,  he  replied,  "  Since  that  man 
trusts  in  human,  not  divine  power,  I  fear  not  his  coming." 

CHAPTEE  II. 

OF   THE    JOURNEY    BY    CEMMEIS — THE    MONASTERY    OF    ST. 
DOGMAEL. 

The  archbishop  having  celebrated  mass  early  in  the  morn- 
ing before  the  high  altar  of  the  church  of  St.  David,  and 
enjoined  to  the  archdeacon  (Griraldus)  the  office  of  preach- 
ing to  the  people,  hastened  through  Cemmeis^  to  meet 
prince  Rhys  at  Aberteivi.  Two  circumstances  occurred  in 
the  province  of  Cemmeis,  the  one  in  our  own  time,  the 
other  a  little  before,  which  I  think  right  not  to  pass  over  in 
silence.  In  oui'  time,  a  young  man,  native  of  this  country, 
during  a  severe  illness,  suflered  as  violent  a  persecution 
from  toads,^  as  if  the  reptiles  of  the  whole  province  had 
come  to  him  by  agreement ;  and  though  destroyed  by  hia 
nurses  and  friends,  they  increased  again  on  all  sides  in  infi- 

'  Cemmeis,  Cemmaes,  Kernes,  and  Kemeys.  Thus  is  tiie  name  of 
this  district  variously  spelt.  Cemmaes  in  Welsh  signifies  a  circle  or 
amphitheatre  for  games  ;  and  a  curious  kind  of  game,  called  knappan, 
or  hurling  the  ball,  was  formerly  much  practised  in  this  part  of  Pem- 
brokeshire ;  a  particular  account  of  which  may  be  seen  in  the  Cambrian 
Register  for  1795,  p.  168.  From  an  ancient  manuscript  by  George 
Owen,  Esq.,  of  Henllys,  lord  of  Kemeys,  published  in  the  second  vo- 
lume of  the  Cambrian  Register,  1796,  we  find  that  the  coimty  of  Pem- 
broke contained  seven  cantreds,  of  which  Kemeys  was  one  ;  in  it  were 
three  comots,  Ywch  Nyfer,  Is  Nyfer,  and  Trefdraeth.  Martin  de 
Tours,  a  Norman  knight,  made  tlie  conquest  of  this  territory,  and 
founded  a  monastery  for  Benedictine  monks  at  St.  Dogmaels,  within  the 
precincts  thereof,  and  annexed  it  as  a  cell  to  the  abbey  of  Tyrone  in 
France,  which  his  son  Robert  endowed  with  lands  during  the  reign  of 
king  Henry  I.  Tliis  Robert  married  Maude  Peverel,  and  left  issue, 
William,  his  son  and  heir,  who  married  the  daughter  of  Rhys  ap  Gruf- 
fydh,  from  whom  (through  the  instigation  of  Gruffydh,  his  son)  he 
received  great  injuries  ;  for,  by  force  and  arms,  and  contrary  to  his 
solemn  oath  and  promise,  he  took  from  him  his  castle  at  Lanever  in 
Kemeys,  for  which  oppressive  dealing,  Rhys  was  afterwards  pimished 
with  great  afflictions  from  his  own  sons,  who  took  liim  prisoner,  and 
shut  him  up  in  the  same  castle. 

*  There  is  a  place  in  Cemmaes  now  called  Tre-liffan,  i.  e.  Toad's  town  ) 
ana  over  a  chimney-piece  in  the  house  there  is  a  figure  of  a  toad  sculp- 
tured in  marble,  said  to  have  been  brought  from  Italy,  and  intended 
probably  to  confirm  and  commemorate  this  tradition  of  Giraldus. 


A  MAN  DETOITEED  BY  EATS.  423 

nite  numbers,  like  hydras'  heads.  His  attendants,  both 
friends  and  strangers,  being  wearied  out,  he  was  drawn  up 
in  a  kind  of  bag,  into  a  high  tree,  stripped  of  its  leaves,  and 
shred ;  nor  was  he  there  secure  from  his  venomous  enemies, 
for  they  crept  up  the  tree  in  great  numbers,  and  consumed 
him  even  to  the  very  bones.  The  young  man's  name  was 
Sisillus  Esceir-hir,  that  is,  Sisillus  Long  Leg.  It  is  also 
recorded  that  by  the  hidden  but  never  unjust  will  of  God, 
another  man  suffered  a  similar  persecution  from  rats.  In 
the  same  province,  during  the  reign  of  king  Henry  I,,  a  rich 
man,  who  had  a  residence  on  the  northern  side  of  the  Prese- 
leu  mountains,^  was  warned  for  three  successive  nights,  by 

'  Preseleu,  Preselaw,  Prescelly,  Presselw,  The  topography  of  the 
Preseleu  mountains  is  thus  accurately  described  in  the  manuscript  be- 
fore mentioned  : — "  The  cheefest  and  principall  mountaiiie  of  this 
sheere  is  Percelley,  which  is  a  long  ridge  or  ranck  of  mountaines  run- 
ning east  and  west,  beginning  above  Pencellyror,  where  the  first  mount 
of  high  land  thereof  is  called  Moel  Ei'yr,  and  soe  passing  eastward  to 
Cwmkerwyn,  being  the  highest  parte  of  it,  runneth  east  to  Moel-trigarn 
and  Lanvirnach.  This  mountaine  is  about  six  or  seven  miles  long,  and 
two  miles  broade.  It  hatli  in  it  many'hills  rising  in  the  high  mounten, 
which  arc  to  be  discerned  twenty,  thirty,  nay  forty  miles  off  and  more, 
and  from  this  lull  may  be  seen  all  Pembrokeshire,  and  some  parte  of 
nine  other  sheeres,  viz.,  Cardigan,  Glamci-gan,  Brecknock,  Montgomery, 
Merioneth,  and  Carnarvonshires ;  Devonsliire  and  Somersetshire :  the 
Isle  of  Londay,  and  the  realme  of  Ireland.  The  commodities  of  this 
mountaine  are  great,  for  it  yealdeth  plenty  of  good  grasse,  and  is  full  of 
sweete  springs  of  water ;  it  yealdeth  also  store  of  fuell  for  the  inhabi- 
tants adjoining,  for  most  of  the  mountaine  fui*nisheth  good  peate  and 
turffe,  as  well  the  lower  parte  and  playne  thereof,  as  the  toppe  of  the 
mountaine.  Alsoe  out  of  this  mountaine  have  many  fine  rivers  their 
originall  and  beginnings,  namely,  Navarne,  Taf,  Clydagh,  Cletlie, 
Syvnvey,  Gwayn,  Clydagh  againe,  and  the  third  Clydagh,  which  water 
most  part  of  tlie  eountrye.  This  mountaine  is  so  high  and  farre  mounted 
in  the  ayre,  that  when  the  eountrey  about  is  faire  and  eieere,  tlie  toppu 
thereof  will  be  hidden  in  a  cloude,  which  of  the  inhabitants  is  taken  a 
iure  sign  of  raine  to  follow  shortly  ;  whereof  grewe  this  provei'be  : — 
'  When  Percelly  weareth  a  hat, 
All  Pembrokeshire  shall  weete  of  that.* 
The  greatest  parte  of  this  mountaine  is  a  common  to  the  free  tenant* 
and  inhabitants  of  Kernes,  within  which  lordship  it  standeth,  yet  in 
divers  parts  thereof  claymed  to  be  the  landes  of  clivers  particular  per» 
sons,  and  this  name  of  Percelley  is  a  genus,  as  Cotteswald  is  in  Glouces- 
tershire, divers  particular  places  therein  having  special  and  proper 
names.  Cwmkerwyn  is  the  highest  pointe  or  peake  of  this  mountaine, 
and  is  tlie  nrst  and  cheefest  'and-marke  that  mariners  doe  make  at  se»^ 


424  THE    ITINEEAET    THEOUaH   WALES. 

dreams,  that  if  he  put  his  hand  under  a  stone  which  hung 
over  the  spring  of  a  neighbouring  well,  called  the  fountain 
of  St.  Bernacus/  he  would  find  there  a  golden  torques.  Obey- 
ing the  admonition  on  the  third  day,  he  received,  from  a 
viper,  a  deadly  wound  in  his  finger;  but  as  it  appears  that 
many  treasures  have  been  discovered  through  dreams,  it 
seems  to  me  probable  that,  with  respect  to  rumours,  in  the 
same  manner  as  to  dreams,  some  ought,  and  some  ought  not, 
to  be  believed. 

1  shall  not  pass  over  in  silence  the  circumstance  which 
occurred  in  the  principal  castle  of  Cemmeis  at  Lanhever,^ 

coming  from  the  south  or  south-west,  and  is  theire  sure  marke  whereby 
they  make  for  Milford,  and  it  appeareth  unto  them  at  the  first  sight  a 
round  black  hUl,  sayling  twelve  or  sixteen  houres  after  they  fiirst  make 
this  land,  befoi'e  they  come  to  the  sight  of  any  other  land,  by  reason 
the  sea  shores  is  so  lowe  ;  and  therefore  the  name  of  Percelley  is  as  well 
knowne  at  sea  as  on  lande.  Along  the  sayd  hille  toppe  of  Percelley 
from  the  beginning  to  the  ende,  there  is  seene  the  tract  of  an  ancient 
way  now  cleare  out  of  use ;  yet  such  hath  been  the  trade  of  old  that 
way,  that  to  this  day  raarkes  of  it  are  apparently  discerned,  and  this 
way  is  usually  called  yet, '  The  Fleming's  ^^'ay  ;'  and  in  an  ancient  charter 
of  Sir  Nicholas  Martin,  lord  of  Kemes,  by  which  he  makes  a  grant  of  all 
his  lands  in  Presselw  to  the  heirs  of  Gwrwared,  son  of  Kuhylin,  and  to 
the  heirs  of  Lhewelyn,  another  son  of  the  said  Kuhylin,  mention  is 
made  of  this  road  ; — 'Sicut  via  Flandrensica  ducit  per  summitatem  mon- 
tis,  a  loco  qui  dicitur  Wyndy-pete  indu-ecte  versus  orientem  usque  ad 
Blaenvanon,  et  sic  descendendo  usque  ad  Ecclesiam  Albam,  Meline 
Trefthey,  Perketh,  Kiven,  et  Kilgwyn,  &c.'  " 

'  St.  Bemacus  is  said,  by  Cressy,  to  have  been  a  man  of  admirable 
sanctity,  who,  through  devotion,  made  a  journey  to  Rome;  and  from 
thence  returning  into  Britany,  filled  all  places  with  the  fame  of  his 
piety  and  miracles.  He  is  commemorated  on  the  7th  of  April.  Several 
churches  in  Wales  were  dedicated  to  him  ;  one  of  which,  called  Llan- 
vemach,  or  the  church  of  St.Bernach,  is  situated  on  tlie  eastern  side  of  the 
Prescelley  mountain  ;  and  I  have  been  informed  that  tliere  is  a  redun- 
dant spring,  called  St.  Bernard's  Well,  under  the  same  range  of  moun- 
tains near  the  road  leading  from  Haverfordwest  to  Cardigan,  not  far 
from  Castel  Henry.  Adjoining  the  well  are  some  ruined  walls,  perhaps 
originally  appertaining  to  the  saint's  hermitage,  or  chapel. 

2  The  "castrum  apud  Lanhever"  was  at  Nevem,  a  small  village 
between  Newport  and  Cardigan,  situated  on  the  banks  of  a  Httle 
river  bearing  the  same  name,  wliich  discharges  itself  into  the  sea 
at  Newport.  On  a  hill  immediately  above  the  western  side  of  the  pa- 
rish church,  is  the  site  of  a  large  castle,  imdoubtedly  the  one  alluded 
to  by  Ghiraldus.  On  the  southern  side  of  the  churchyard  is  a  curious 
ancient  cross  mentioned  by  Camden,  richly  decorated  in  divers 


wice:edisESS  or  ehts  ap  geuittdd,  425 

in  our  days.  Ehys,  son  of  G-ruffydh,  by  the  instigation  of 
his  son  Grruffydli,  a  cunnmg  and  artful  man,  took  away  by 
force,  from  William,  son  of  Martin  (de  Tours),  his  son-in- 
law,  the  castle  of  Lanhever,  notwithstanding  he  had  so- 
lemnly sworn,  by  the  most  precious  relics,  that  his  indem- 
nity and  security  should  be  faithfully  maintained,  and,  con- 
trary to  his  word  and  oath,  gave  it  to  his  son  G-ruflydh ;  but 
since  "  A  sordid  prey  has  not  a  good  ending,"  the  Lord, 
who  by  the  mouth  of  his  prophet  exclaims  "  Vengeance  is 
mine,  and  I  will  repay  !"  ordained  that  the  castle  should  be 
taken  away  from  the  contriver  of  this  wicked  plot,  Grruffydh, 
and  bestowed  upon  the  man  in  the  world  he  most  hated, 
his  brother  Malgon.  Ehys,  also,  about  two  years  after- 
wards, intending  to  disinherit  his  own  daughter,  and  two 
grand-daughters  and  grandsons,  by  a  singular  instance  of 
divine  vengeance,  was  taken  prisoner  by  his  sons  in  battle, 
and  confined  in  this  same  castle ;  thus  justly  suffering  the 
greatest  disgrace  and  confusion  in  the  very  place  where  he 
had  perpetrated  an  act  of  the  most  consummate  baseness. 
I  think  it  also  worthy  to  be  remembered,  that  at  the  time  this 
misfortune  befel  him,  he  had  concealed  in  his  possession,  at 
Dinevor,  the  collar  of  St.  Canaucof  Brecknock,  for  which, by 
divine  vengeance,  he  merited  to  be  taken  prisoner  and  confined. 
We  slept  that  night  in  the  monastery  of  St.  Dogmael,' 

partments,  with  knots,  fret-work,  &e.  The  neighbourhood  of  Nevem 
abounds  with  Druidical  antiquities.  The  cromlech  at  Pentre  Evan 
surpasses  in  size  and  height  any  I  have  yet  seen  in  Wales,  or,  indeed,  in 
England,  Stonehenge  and  Abury  alone  excepted.  At  Newport  there 
is  a  smaller  cromlech,  and  between  that  place  and  the  sea- shore  there 
is  a  very  fine  one  called  Lech  y  drybed.  Tradition  has  also  recorded 
a  striking  memorial  of  this  memorable  expedition  of  archbishop  Bald- 
win, in  the  name  of  a  bridge  over  the  httle  river  Duad,  which  is  still 
called  Pont  Baldwyn,  and  is  situated  at  a  short  distance  above  the 
village  of  CoUege. 

1  St.  Dogmael.  Martin  de  Tours,  a  Norman  knight,  who  made  the 
conquest  of  the  territory  of  Kemeys,  is  said  to  have  been  the  first 
founder  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Dogmael's,  and  to  have  been  there 
buried  in  the  middle  of  the  choir.  But  Robert,  the  son  of  Martin,  was 
the  chief  benefactor.  The  saint  to  whom  this  monastery  was  dedicated, 
is  mentioned  by  Cressy,  under  the  names  of  Tegwel  and  Dogmael,  "  as 
illustrious  for  his  great  virtues,  his  sanctity,  and  his  miracles."  In  the 
Cambrian  Biography  he  is  styled  "  Dogvael,  son  of  Ithel  ab  Ceredig 
ab  Cunedda,  a  saint  who  lived  about  the  middle  of  the  seventh  century, 
md  who  has  a  church  dedicated  to  him  in  Pembrokeshire."     Some 


426  THE    ITIl<EJiAEr    THEOL'OH    WALES. 

where,  as  well  as  on  the  next  day  at  Aberteivi,  we  were 
handsomely  entertained  by  prince  Ehys.  On  the  Cemmeia 
side  of  the  river,  not  far  from  the  bridge,  the  people  of  the 
neighbourhood  being  assembled  together,  and  Rhys  and  his 
two  sons,  Malgon^  andGruffydh,  being  present,  the  word  of 
the  Lord  was  persuasively  preached  both  by  the  archbishop 
and  the  archdeacon,  and  many  were  induced  to  take  the 
cross ;  one  of  whom  was  an  only  son,  and  the  sole  comfort 
of  his  mother,  far  advanced  in  years,  who,  steadfastly  gazing 
on  him,  as  if  inspired  by  the  Deity,  uttered  these  words  : — 
"  O,  most  beloved  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  I  return  thee  hearty 
thanks  for  having  conferred  on  me  the  blessing  of  bringing 
forth  a  son,  whom  thoumayest  think  worthy  of  thy  service." 
Another  woman  at  Aberteivi,  of  a  very  different  way  of 
thinking,  held  her  husband  fast  by  his  cloak  and  girdle,  and 
publicly  and  audaciously  prevented  him  from  going  to 
the  archbishop  to  take  the  cross  ;  but,  three  nights  after* 
wards,  she  heard  a  terrible  voice,  saying,  "  Thou  hast  taken 
away  my  servant  from  me,  therefore  what  thou  most  lovest 
shall  be  taken  away  from  thee."  On  her  relating  this  vision 
to  her  husband,  they  were  struck  with  mutual  terror  and 
amazement;  and  on  falling  asleep  again,  she  unhappily 
overlaid  her  little  boy,  whom,  with  more  affection  than  pru- 
dence, she  had  taken  to  bed  with  her.  The  husband,  relat- 
ing to  the  bishop  of  the  diocese  both  the  vision  and  its 
fatal  prediction,  took  the  cross,  which  his  wife  spontane- 
ously sewed  on  her  husband's  arm,- 

extensive,  but  by  no  means  picturesque,  niins  of  this  abbey  are  still  visi- 
ble at  a  short  distance  from  the  town  of  Cardigan.  Its  situation  was 
well  chosen,  on  high  ground,  overlooking  the  river  Teivi.  The  fine  old 
ash  trees,  with  which  the  ruins  of  the  abbey  and  parish  church  are 
encircled,  still  give  it  a  venerable  monastic  appearance. 

1  "This  lord  was  faire  and  comelie  of  person,  honest  and  just  of  con- 
ditions, beloved  of  his  friends,  and  feared  of  his  foes,  against  whom  (es- 
peciallie  the  Flemings)  he  achieved  diverse  victories." — Fowel,  p.  241. 

2  The  origin  of  assuming  the  cress  may  be  derived  from  the  Council 
of  Clermont,  in  1095,  when  those  religious  enthusiasts  who  undertook 
the  expedition  to  the  Holy  Land,  had  the  cross  sewed  on  their  gar- 
ments :  "  Crucem  assumere  dicebantur,  qui  ad  sacra  bella  profecturi 
crucis  symbolum  palliis  suis  assuebant  et  afiigebant,  in  signum  votiv» 
illius  expeditionis,  cujus  originem  Concilio  Claromontano  sub  Urbano 
II.  adscribunt  scriptores  omnes  Kerum  Hierosol.  et  alii  passim."  It 
was  either  woven  in  gold  or  silk,  or  made  with  clolh,  and  generally 


THE   EITEE   TEIYI.  427 

Near  the  head  of  the  bridge  where  the  sermons  were  deli- 
vered, the  people  immediately  marked  out  the  site  for  a 
chapel,^  on  a  verdant  plain,  as  a  memorial  of  so  great  an 
event ;  intending  that  the  altar  should  be  placed  on  the 
spot  where  the  archbishop  stood  while  addressing  the  mul- 
titude ;  and  it  is  well  known  that  many  miracles  (the  enu- 
meration of  which  would  be  too  tedious  to  relate)  were 
performed  on  the  crowds  of  sick  people  who  resorted  hither 
from  different  parts  of  the  country. 

CHAPTEE  III. 

OP    THE   EIVEE   TEIVI,    CAEDIGAN,    ASB   EMELTS*. 

The  noble  river  Teivi^  flows  here,  and  abounds  with  the 
finest  salmon,  more  than  any  other  river  of  Wales  ;  it  has  a 

sewed  on  the  right  shoulder ;  but  in  the  celebrated  crusade  undertaken 
in  the  year  1188,  by  Philip  king  of  Finance,  and  Henry  II.  of  England, 
and  which  gave  rise  to  this  Itinerary  of  archbishop  Baldwin  through 
Wales,  the  different  sovereigns  distmguished  their  own  subjects  by  va- 
rying the  colours  of  their  respective  insignia.  In  the  first  crusade  all 
were  red  ;  but  in  this  the  French  alone  preserved  that  colour,  whilst 
the  English  were  distinguished  by  white,  and  the  Flemings  by  green 
crosses.  Some  zealots  carried  their  zeal  so  far  as  to  imprint  the  figure 
of  the  cross  on  their  skin  with  a  red-hot  iron,  and  thus  perpetuated  the 
holy  mark. 

^  On  the  Cemmaes,  or  Pembrokeshire  side  of  the  river  Teivi,  and 
near  the  end  of  the  bridge,  there  is  a  place  still  called  Park  y  CappeU, 
or  the  Chapel  Field,  which  is  undoubtedly  commemorative  of  the  cir- 
cumstance recorded  by  our  author. 

2  This  fine  river  rises  in  that  long  and  extensive  range  of  moun- 
tains which  separate  the  counties  of  Montgomery,  Radnor,  and  a  part 
of  Brecknockshire,  from  that  of  Cardigan,  and  to  which  our  author 
gives  the  title  of  Ellennith.  Its  principal  source  is  derived  from  a  lake 
amongst  these  mountains,  bearing  the  name  Llyn  Tyfi.  It  flows  to  the 
north  of  the  celebrated  Cistercian  monastery  of  Sti'atflur,  and,  till  it 
reaches  the  httle  village  of  Tregaron,  "  it  fletithe  and  rageth  upon  stones." 
From  Tregaron,  steering  its  coui-se  to  Llanbedr,  or  Pons  Stephani,  it 
passes  between  the  venerable  old  sanctuary  of  Llandewi  Brefi  and  the 
Roman  station  of  Luentium,  or  Loventium,  in  the  parish  Llanio-isau ; 
the  former  being  situated  on  the  south-east,  the  latter  on  the  north- 
west banks  of  the  river,  and  nearly  opposite  to  each  other.  From  Llan- 
bedr it  flows  by  Newcastle  Emlyn  (where  its  course  is  very  singular) 
to  Kenarth,  the  Canarch  Mawr  of  Griraldus,  where,  confined  within  a 
narrow  and  well-wooded  vale,  it  forms  the  cataract  and  salmon-leap 
here  mentioned.  From  hence,  descending  to  Lechryd  bridge,  it  loses 
lis  raging  character,  and  smoothly  ghding  under  the  proud,  romantifl 


THE   ITINEEAET    THEOTIGH   WALES. 

productive  fishery  near  Cilgarran,^  whicli  is  situated  on  the 
summit  of  a  rock,  at  a  place  called  Canarch  Mawr,^  the 
ancient   residence    of   St.   Ludoc,  where  the  river,  falling 

towers  of  Cilgarran  castle,  and  adding  a  most  beautiful  feature  to  that 
enchanting  scenery,  is  partly  lost  in  the  marshes  near  Cardigan,  where 
it  becomes  a  tide  river. 

^  Cilgarran. — This  castle,  situated  on  the  Pembrokeshire  side  of  the 
river  Teivi,  experienced  (Uke  its  neighbour  at  Cardigan)  the  frequent 
and  desolating  vicissitudes  of  war.  In  the  year  1109,  Gilbert  Strongbow, 
earl  of  Striguil,  having  obtained  leave  of  king  Henry  to  make  conquests 
in  Wales,  landed  in  Cardiganshire,  and  having  conquered  the  country, 
built  two  castles,  one  at  Aberystwyth,  another  at  a  place  called  Dyn- 
gerant,  which  has  generally  been  supposed  to  be  the  same  as  Cilgarran. 
"  In  the  year  1165,  it  was  taken  and  rased  by  prince  Rhys  ;  and  in  the 
yeare  ensuing,  the  Flemings  and  Normanes  came  to  West  Wales  with 
a  great  power  against  the  castell  of  Cilgarran  (which  Eees  had  fortified), 
and  laid  siege  to  it,  assaulting  it  diverse  times  ;  but  it  was  so  manfvdhe 
defended,  that  they  returned  home  as  they  came,  and  shortlie  after  they 
came  before  it  againe,  where  they  lost  manie  of  their  best  men,  and  then 
departed  againe."  From  the  many  revolutions  this  castle  underwent 
during  those  times  of  turbulence  and  warfare,  with  which  almost  every 
district  of  North  and  South  Wales  was  continually  agitated,  we  cannot 
in  modern  days  expect  to  find  many  remains  of  its  ancient  architecture. 
Two  round  towers,  of  large  and  massive  proportions,  stand  conspicuous 
amidst  its  ruins,  one  of  which,  from  the  uniformity  of  its  arches,  seems 
to  have  sufi'ered  but  little,  as  to  its  outward  form,  and  from  the  preva- 
lence of  the  circular  arch,  bespeaks  a  Norman  origin.  In  one  of  these, 
a  staircase  is  still  practicable  for  ascent  to  the  summit  of  the  tower. 
The  beautiful  scenery  around  this  castle  stands  unequalled  in  South 
Wales,  and  can  only  be  rivalled  by  that  of  Conway,  in  North  Wales ; 
but,  to  be  seen  to  most  advantage,  it  must  be  visited  by  water,  not  by 
land.  Skirting  the  sides  of  a  long  and  extensive  marsh,  a  sudden  bend 
of  the  river  contracting  its  channel,  conducts  us  into  a  narrow  pass, 
surrounded  by  a  perpendicular  rampart  of  wood  and  rock,  with  steep 
and  precipitate  banks  of  oak  and  copse  wood  feathering  down  to  the 
water's  edge  ;  the  first  view  we  catch  of  the  castle,  at  a  distance,  between 
a  perspective  range  of  well-wooded  hiUs,  is  very  striking  ;  and  what, 
on  a  nearer  approach,  it  may  lose  in  picturesque  beauty,  it  certainly 
gains  in  grandeur ;  the  proud  walls  of  a  large  castle  appear  towering 
full  in  front ;  the  hill  on  which  tliey  stand,  is  rather  destitute  of  wood, 
but  boldly  broken  with  projecting  rocks  ;  and,  perhaps,  the  general 
effect  of  the  landscape  may  not  lose  by  tliis  contrast  to  the  rich  sur- 
rounding scenery  of  wood. 

2  Now  known  by  the  name  of  Kenarth,  which  may  be  derived  from 
Cefn  y  garth — the  back  of  the  wear,  a  ridge  of  land  behind  the  wear ;  a 
name  perfectly  appHcable  to  this  village,  beautifully  situated  on  the 
banks  of  the  river  Teivi,  which,  confined  within  a  narrow  vale,  forms  at 
this  spot  a  picturesque  cataract  and  salmon-leap. 


THE    SALMON- LEAP.  429 

fipom  a  great  height,  forms  a  cataract,  wliich  the  salmon  as- 
cend, by  leaping  from  the  bottom  to  the  top  of  a  rock,  which 
is  about  the  height  of  the  longest  spear,  and  would  appear 
wonderful,  were  it  not  the  nature  of  that  species  of  fish  to 
leap :  hence  they  have  received  the  name  of  salmon,  from 
salio.  Their  particular  manner  of  leaping  (as  I  have  speci- 
fied in  my  Topography  of  Ireland)  is  thus  :  fish  of  this 
kind,  naturally  swimming  against  the  course  of  the  river 
(for  as  birds  fly  against  the  wind,  so  do  fish  swim  against 
the  stream),  on  meeting  with  any  sudden  obstacle,  bend 
their  tail  towards  their  mouth,  and  sometimes,  in  order  to 
give  a  greater  power  to  their  leap,  they  press  it  with  their 
mouth,  and  suddenly  freeing  themselves  from  this  circular 
form,  they  spring  with  great  force  (like  a  bow  let  loose) 
from  the  bottom  to  the  top  of  the  leap,  to  the  great  astonish- 
ment of  the  beholders.  The  church  dedicated  to  St.  Ludoc,^ 
the  mill,  bridge,  salmon  leap,  an  orchard  with  a  delightful 
garden,  all  stand  together  on  a  small  plot  of  ground.  The 
Teivi  has  another  singular  particularity,  being  the  only  river 
in  Wales,  or  even  in  England,  which  has  beavers;^  in  Scot- 
land they  are  said  to  be  found  in  one  river,  but  are  very 
scarce.     I  think  it  not  a  useless  labour,  to  insert  a  few  re- 

^  The  name  of  St.  Ludoc  is  not  found  in  the  lives  of  the  saints.  Le- 
land  mentions  a  St.  Clitane,  who  had  a  church  dedicated  to  him  in 
South  Wales,  and  who  was  killed  by  some  of  his  companions  whilst 
hunting.  "  Chtaucus  Southe-AYallise  regulus  inter  venandum  a  suis 
sodaUbus  occisus  est.  Ecclesia  S.  Clitauci  in  Southe  Wallia." — Leland, 
/tin.,  torn.  viii.  p.  95. 

2  The  Teivy  is  still  very  justly  distinguished  for  the  quantity  and 
quality  of  its  salmon,  but  the  beaver  no  longer  disturbs  its  streams. 
That  this  animal  did  exist  in  the  days  of  Howel  Dha  (though  even 
then  a  rarity),  the  mention  made  of  it  in  his  laws,  and  the  high  price 
set  upon  its  skin,  most  clearly  evince ;  but  if  the  castor  of  Giraldus, 
and  the  avanc  of  Humphrey  Llwyd  and  of  the  Welsh  dictionaries,  be 
really  the  same  animal,  it  certainly  was  not  peculiar  to  the  Teivi,  but 
was  equally  known  in  North  Wales,  as  the  names  of  places  testify.  A 
small  lake  in  Montgomeryshire  is  called  Llyn  yr  Afangc  ;  a  pool  in  the 
river  Conwy,  not  far  from  Bettws,  bears  the  same  name,  and  the  vale 
called  Nant  Ffrancon,  upon  the  river  Ogwen,  in  Caernarvonshire,  is 
supposed  by  the  natives  to  be  a  corruption  from  Nant  yr  Afan  cwm,  or 
the  Yale  of  the  Beavers.  Mr.  Owen,  in  his  dictionary,  says,  "  That  it 
has  been  seen  in  this  vale  within  the  memory  of  man."  Giraldus  has 
previously  spoken  of  the  beaver  in  his  Topography  of  Ireland,  Distino* 
i.  c.  21. 


430  THE   ITINEEAEY   THEOTJGH   WALES. 

marks  respecting  tlie  nature  of  these  animals ;  the  maimer 
in  which  they  bring  their  materials  from  the  woods  to  the 
water,  and  with  what  skill  they  connect  them  in  the  con- 
Btruction  of  their  dwellings  in  the  midst  of  rivers  ;  their 
means  of  defence  on  the  eastern  and  western  sides  against 
hunters  ;  and  also  concerning  their  fish-like  tails. 

The  beavers,  in  order  to  construct  their  castles  in  the 
middle  of  rivers,  make  use  of  the  animals  of  their  own  spe- 
cies instead  of  carts,  who,  by  a  wonderful  mode  of  carriage, 
convey  the  timber  from  the  woods  to  the  rivers.     Some  of 
them,  obeying  the  dictates  of  nature,  receive  on  their  bellies 
the  logs  of  wood  cut  off  by  their  associates,  which  they  hold 
tight  with  their  feet,  and  thus  with  transverse  pieces  placed 
in  their  mouths,  are  drawn  along  backwards,  with  their 
cargo,  by  other  beavers,  who  fasten  themselves  with  their 
teeth  to  the  raft.     The  moles  use  a  similar  artifice  iu  clear- 
ing out  the  dirt  from  the  cavities  they  form  by  scraping. 
In  some  deep  and  still  corner  of  the  river,  the  beavers  use 
such  skill  in  the  construction  of  their  habitations,  that  not 
a  drop  of  water  can  penetrate,  or  the  force  of  storms  shake 
them ;  nor  do  they  fear  any  violence  but  that  of  mankind, 
nor  even  that,  unless  well  armed.    They  entwine  the  branches 
of  willows  with  other  wood,  and  different  kinds  of  leaves, 
to  the  usual  height  of  the  water,  and  having  made  within- 
side  a  communication  from  floor  to  floor,  they  elevate  a  kind 
of  stage,  or  scaffold,  from  which  they  may  observe  and  watch 
the  rising  of  the  waters.     In  the  course  of  time,  their  habi- 
tations bear  the  appearance  of  a  grove  of  willow  trees,  rude 
and  natural  without,  but  artfully  constructed  within.     This 
animal  can  remain  in  or  under  water  at  its  pleasure,  like  the 
frog  or  seal,  who  shew,  by  the  smoothness  or  roughness  of 
their  skins,  the  flux  and  reflux  of  the  sea.    These  three  ani- 
mals, therefore,  live  indifferently  under  the  water,  or  in  the 
air,  and  have  short  legs,  broad  bodies,  stubbed  tails,  and 
resemble  the  mole  in  their  corporal  shape.     It  is  worthy  of 
remark,  that  the  beaver  has  but  four  teeth,  two  above,  and 
two  below,  which  being  broad  and  sharp,  cut  like  a  carpen- 
ter s  axe,  and  as  such  he  uses  them.    They  make  excavations 
and  dry  hiding  places  in  the  banks  near  their  dwellings,  and 
when  they  hear  the  stroke  of  the  hunter,  who  with  sharp 
poles  endeavours  to  penetrate  them,  they  fly  as  soon  as  po»- 


HABITS   or   THE   BEAYEE.  431 

Bible  to  the  defence  of  their  castle,  having  first  blown  out 
the  water  from  the  entrance  of  the  hole,  and  rendered  it  foul 
and  muddy  by  scraping  the  earth,  in  order  thus  artfully  to 
elude  the  stratagems  of  the  well-armed  hunter,  who  is 
watching  them  from  the  opposite  banks  of  the  river.  When 
the  beaver  finds  he  cannot  save  himself  from  the  pursuit  of 
the  dogs  who  follow  him,  that  he  may  ransom  his  body  by 
the  sacrifice  of  a  part,  he  throws  away  that,  which  by  natural 
instinct  he  knows  to  be  the  object  sought  for,  and  in  the 
eight  of  the  hunter  castrates  himself,  from  which  circum- 
stance he  has  gained  the  name  of  Castor ;  and  if  by  chance 
the  dogs  should  chase  an  animal  which  had  been  previously 
castrated,  he  has  the  sagacity  to  run  to  an  elevated  spot, 
and  there  lifting  up  his  leg,  shews  the  hunter  that  the  object 
of  his  pursuit  is  gone.  Cicero  speaking  of  them  says,  "  They 
ransom  themselves  by  that  part  of  the  body,  for  which  they 
are  chiefly  sought."     And  Juvenal  says, 

" Qui  se 

Eimuchum  ipse  facit,  cupiens  evadere  damno 
Testicvdi." 

And  St.  Bernard, 

"  Prodit  enim  castor  proprio  de  corpore  velox 
Eeddere  quas  sequitur  hostis  avarus  opes." 

Thus,  therefore,  in  order  to  preserve  his  skin,  which  is  sought 
after  in  the  west,  and  the  medicinal  part  of  his  body,  which 
is  coveted  in  the  east,  although  he  cannot  save  himself  en- 
tirely, yet,  by  a  wonderful  instinct  and  sagacity,  he  endea- 
vours to  avoid  the  stratagems  of  his  pursuers.  The  beavers 
have  broad,  short  tails,  thick,  like  the  palm  of  a  hand,  which 
they  use  as  a  rudder  in  swimming ;  and  although  the  rest  of 
their  body  is  hairy,  this  part,  like  that  of  seals,  is  without 
hair,  and  smooth  ;  upon  which  account,  in  Germany  and  the 
arctic  regions,  where  beavers  abound,  great  and  religious 
persons,  in  times  of  fasting,  eat  the  tails  of  this  fish-like 
animal,  as  having  both  the  taste  and  colour  of  fish. 

We  proceeded  on  our  journey  from  Cilgarran  towards  Pont- 
Stephen,'  leaving  Cruc  Mawr,  i.  e.  the  great  hill,  near  Aber- 

^  Oxir  author  having  made  a  long  digression,  in  order  to  introduce 
the  history  of  the  beaver,  now  continues  his  Itinerary,  From  Cardigan, 
the  archbishop  proceeded  towards  Pont  Stephen,  leaving  a  hill,  called 


432  THE   ITHOJEAET   THEOUGH   WALES. 

teivi,^  on  our  left  hand.  On  this  spot  Grruffydh,  son  of  Ehys 
ap  Theodor,  soon  after  the  death  of  king  Henry  I., by  a  furious 
onset  gained  a  signal  victory  against  the  English  array,  which, 
by  the  murder  of  the  illustrious  Eichard  de  Clare,  near 
Abergevenny  (before  related),  had  lost  its  leader  and  chief.^ 
A  tumulus  is  to  be  seen  on  the  summit  of  the  aforesaid  hill, 
and  the  inhabitants  affirm  that  it  will  adapt  itself  to  persons 
of  all  stature  ;  and  that  if  any  armour  is  left  there  entire 
in  the  evening,  it  will  be  found,  according  to  vulgar  tradi- 
tion, broken  to  pieces  in  the  morning. 

CHAPTER  lY. 

or  THE  JOTJENET  BY  PONT   STEPHEIT,    THE  ABBEY  OE    STEAT- 
ELUE,    LAjS'DEWI  BEEVI,    AND    LHAKPADAEN    VAWE.^ 

A  SEEMON  having  been  preached  on  the  following  morning 

Cruc  Mawr,  on  the  left  hand,  which  still  retains  its  ancient  name,  and 
agrees  exactly  with  the  position  given  to  it  by  Giraldus.  On  its  summit 
is  a  tumulus,  and  some  appearance  of  an  intrenchment. 

^  This  town,  which  in  modern  times  has  assumed  the  name 
of  Cardigan,  is  situated  on  the  northern  banks  of  the  river  Teivi,  which 
discharges  itself  into  the  sea  a  few  miles  fi'om  the  town.  When  the 
Normans  and  Flemings  spread  themselves  over  the  western  coasts  of 
Wales,  they  probably  erected  a  fort  to  guard  this  river ;  but  the  first 
mention  of  it  in  the  Welsh  Chronicle  occurs  in  the  year  1155,  when 
prince  Rhys  built  a  castle  at  Aberdyfi,  to  protect  his  frontiers  against 
the  princes  of  North  Wales.  In  the  year  1157,  Roger  earl  of  Clare, 
having  obtained  a  grant  from  king  Henry  of  such  lands  in  Wales  as  he 
could  win,  came  with  a  great  army  to  Caerdigan,  and  fortified  the  castle 
of  Dyvy,  which  Rhys,  prince  of  South  Wales,  destroyed  in  the  following 
year.  On  the  return  of  king  Henry  to  England,  in  the  year  1165,  after 
his  unsuccessful  attempts  against  the  Welsh,  prince  Rhys,  availing  him- 
self of  his  retreat,  laid  siege  to  the  castle  of  Aberteivi,  and  won  it,  and 
levelled  it  to  the  ground.  It  was,  however,  rebuilt  before  the  year  1177, 
at  wliich  time  prince  Rhys  held  a  most  magnificent  feast  at  Christmas, 
in  his  castle  at  Aberteivi,,  which  is  recorded  in  the  Welsh  Chronicle. 
In  1188,  the  same  lord  Rhys  entertained  archbishop  Baldwin  and  his 
crusaders  on  their  passage  through  Cardigan  into  Nortli  Wales. 

'  The  signal  victory  of  the  Welsh,  here  alluded  to  by  Giraldus,  hap- 
pened in  1135,  soon  after  the  death  of  Henry  I.,  and  the  cruel  murder 
of  Richard  de  Clare  and  his  son  Gilberf ,  near  Abergavenny,  by  Morgan 
ap  Owen,  of  Caerleon. 

3  Though  Emelyn  is  mentioned  in  the  title  of  the  preceding  chapter, 
no  notice  is  taken  of  it  in  the  text.  This  village,  on  the  direct  road 
from  Cardigan  to  Llanbedr,  now  bears  the  name  of  Newcastle  Emlyn, 


CYNEUBIC    SON    OF    EHYS  433 

at  P.nt  Stephen,^  by  the  archbishop  and  archdeacon,  and 
also  by  two  abbots  of  the  Cistercian  order,  John  of  Alba- 
domus,  and  Sisillus  of  Stratfiur,^  who  faithfully  attended  us 
in  those  parts,  and  as  far  as  North  "Wales,  many  persons 
were  induced  to  take  the  cross.  We  proceeded  to  Stratflur, 
where  we  passed  the  night.  On  the  following  morning, 
having  on  our  right  the  lofty  mountains  of  Moruge,  which 
in  Welsh  are  called  Ellennith,  we  were  met  near  the  side  of 
a  wood  by  Cyneuric  son  of  Rhys,  accompanied  by  a  body  oi 
light-armed  youths.  This  young  man  was  of  a  fair  com- 
plexion, with  curled  hair,  tall  and  handsome  ;  clothed  only, 
according  to  the  custom  of  his  country,  with  a  thin  cloak 
and  inner  garment,  his  legs  and  feet,  regardless  of  thorns 
and  thistles,  were  left  bare ;  a  man,  not  adorned  by  art,  but 
nature  ;  bearing  in  his  presence  an  innate,  not  an  acquired, 
dignity  of  manners.     A  sermon  having  been  preached  ta 

and  is  pleasantly  situated  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Teivi.  Tliere  are 
still  some  considerable  remains  of  the  castle  on  an  eminence  overlook- 
ing the  river.  Its  situation  was  very  strong,  being  nearly  insulated  by 
the  very  singular  channel  of  the  Teivi. 

^  Lanpeter,  or  Llanbedr,  a  small  town  near  the  river  Teivi,  still  re- 
tains the  name  of  Pont-Stephen.  The  verdant  site  alone  remains  of  its 
ancient  castle,  which  I  imagine  to  be  the  same  as  that  of  Stephen,  alluded 
to  in  the  Welsh  Chronicle,  as  having  been  demolished  and  overthrown 
in  the  year  1137,  by  Owen  Gwynedh,  eldest  son  of  Gruffydh  ap  Conan. 
Here  our  crusaders  rested  the  night,  and,  on  the  following  morning,  the 
service  of  the  cross  was  successfully  promoted  by  the  united  exhortations 
of  the  archbishop,  Giraldus  the  archdeacon,  and  the  abbots. 

^  Leland  thus  speaks  of  this  place :  "  Strateflere  is  set  round  about 
with  montanes  not  far  distant,  except  on  the  west  parte,  where  Diffrin 
Tyve  is.  Many  hilles  therabout  hath  bene  weU  woddid,  as  evidently  by  old 
rotes  apperith,  but  now  in  them  is  almost  no  woode — the  causes  be  these. 
First,  the  wood  cut  down  was  never  copisid,  and  this  hath  beene  a  great 
cause  of  destruction  of  wood  thorough  Wales.  Secondly,  after  cutting 
down  of  woodys,  the  gottys  hath  so  bytten  the  yoimg  spring  that  it 
never  grew  but  lyke  shrubbes.  Thirddely,  men  for  the  monys  destroied 
the  great  woddis  that  thei  should  not  harborow  theves."  This  monas- 
tery is  situated  in  the  wildest  part  of  Cardiganshire,  surrounded  on 
three  sides  by  a  lofty  range  of  those  mountains,  called  by  our  author 
Ellennith  ;  a  spot  admirably  suited  to  the  severe  and  recluse  order  of  the 
Cistei'cians.  But  wild  and  desolate  as  its  present  appearance  may 
seem,  how  much  more  so  must  it  have  been  in  former  times,  when  king 
Edward,  for  the  better  security  of  his  subjects  from  the  dangers  they 
were  likely  to  incur  in  these  solitary  districts,  ordered  the  highways  W 
b«  repaired,  and  the  surrounding  woods  to  be  cut  down. 

F   F 


434  THE    ITIKEEART    THROUOn   WALES. 

these  three  young  men,  Gruffydh,  Malgon,  and  Cyneuric,  in 
the  presence  of  their  father,  prince  E-hys,  and  the  brothers 
disputing  about  taking  the  cross,  at  length  Malgon  strictly 
promised  that  he  would  accompany  the  archbishop  to  the 
king's  court,  and  would  obey  the  king's  and  archbishop's 
counsel,  unless  prevented  by  them.  'From  thence  we  passed 
through  Landewi  Brevi,^  that  is,  the  church  of  David  of 

'  Leaving  Stratflur,  the  archbishop  and  his  train  returned  to  Llan- 
dewi  Brefi,  and  from  thence  proceeded  to  Llanbadarn  Vawr.  It  ought 
to  be  observed,  that  an  unusual  deviation  was  here  made  from  the 
direct  road  to  the  latter  place,  by  retui'ning  to  Llandewi  Brefi,  which,  on 
the  preceding  day,  they  must  have  passed,  on  their  journey  from  Pont- 
Stephen  to  Stratflur.  The  large  tract  of  mountains,  which  almost  in- 
close the  Vale  of  the  Teivi,  bore  the  name  of  EUennith,  and  were  called 
by  the  English,  Moruge.  As,  after  a  long  and  minute  enquiry  amongst 
the  natives  of  these  parts,  I  cannot  find  any  modern  or  ancient  name 
attached  to  these  hills,  which  at  all  corresponds  with  the  word  in  ques- 
tion, I  am  inclined  to  think  that  the  word  Moruge  is  only  a  corruption 
from  Moors,  or  Moorish,  for  such  is  the  nature  of  these  mountains. 
EUennith  should  be  written  MaeUenydd,  for  these  mountains  are  still  so 
called  in  old  wi-itings  ;  and  I  have  before  mentioned  a  cantref  in  Rad- 
norshire, on  the  other  side  of  these  mountains,  caDed  Maelyenidd.  The 
village  of  Llandewi  Brefi  is  situated  near  the  southern  banks  of  the 
river  Teivi,  and  opposite  Llanio-isau,  where  there  are  evident  remains 
of  the  Roman  town  of  Loventium.  It  has  been  much  celebrated  by 
ecclesiastical  writers,  on  account  of  the  miracle  performed  there  in 
honour  of  St.  David.  I  shall  recount  the  miracle  in  the  words  of  the 
historian  Cressy.  "When  all  the  fathers  assembled  enjoined  David  to 
preach,  he  commanded  a  child  which  attended  him,  and  had  lately  been 
restored  to  life  by  him,  to  spread  a  napkin  under  his  feet ;  and,  stand- 
ing upon  it,  he  began  to  expound  the  gospel  and  the  law  to  the  audi- 
tory. All  the  while  that  this  oration  continued,  a  snow-white  dove, 
descending  from  heaven,  sate  upon  his  shoulders ;  and,  moreover,  the 
earth  on  which  he  stood  raised  itself  under  him  till  it  became  a  hill, 
from  whence  his  voice,  like  a  trumpet,  was  clearly  heard  and  under.- tood 
by  all,  both  near  and  far  off,  on  the  top  of  which  hill  a  church  was 
afterwards  built,  and  remains  to  this  day,"  The  clmrch,  which  was 
the  scene  of  the  miracle,  is  situated  on  a  gentle  eminence,  backed  by 
high  mountains,  and  surrounded  by  the  most  miserable  hovels  I  ever 
beheld.  Though  a  large  and  spacious  building,  it  corresponds  with  the 
village  in  misery  and  desolation.  In  the  year  1188,  no  greater  eccle- 
siastical establishment  existed  probably  at  Llandewi  Brefi  than  a  simple 
church  or  chapel,  commemorating  the  successful  preaching  of  St. 
David  :  and  as  Giraldus  makes  no  mention  of  their  having  preached 
there,  we  may  conclude  that  devotion  and  respect  for  the  hallo vved  spot 
alone  induced  them  to  pass  through  it  on  their  road  from  Stratflur  to 
Llanbadarn. 


LLAKBADAEN  TAWE.  435 

Brevi,  situated  on  the  summit  of  tliat  hill  which  had  for- 
merly risen  up  under  his  feet  whilst  preaching,  during  the 
period  of  that  celebrated  synod,  when  all  the  bishops,  ab- 
bots, and  clergy  of  Wales,  and  many  other  persons,  were 
collected  thither  on  account  of  the  Pelagian  heresy,  which, 
although  formerly  exploded  from  Britain  by  G-ermauus, 
bishop  of  Auxerre,  had  lately  been  revived  in  these  parts. 
At  this  place  David  was  reluctantly  raised  to  the  arch- 
bishopric, by  the  unanimous  consent  and  election  of  the 
whole  assembly,  who  by  loud  acclamations  testified  their 
admiration  of  so  great  a  miracle.  Dubricius  had  a  short 
time  before  resigned  to  him  this  honour  in  due  form  at 
Caerleon,  from  which  city  the  metropolitan  see  was  trans- 
ferred to  St.  David's. 

Having  rested  that  night  at  Lhanpadam  Yawr,^  or  the 
church  of  Paternus  the  Great,  we  attracted  many  persons 
to  the  service  of  Christ  on  the  following  morning.  It  is 
remarkable  that  this  church,  like  many  others  in  Wales 
and  Ireland,  has  a  lay  abbot ;  for  a  bad  custom  has  pre- 
vailed amongst  the  clergy,  of  appointing  the  most  powerful 
people  of  a  parish  stewards,  or,  rather,  patrons,  of  their 
churches ;  who,  in  process  of  time,  from  a  desire  of  gain, 
have  usurped  the  whole  right,  appropriating  to  their  own 
use  the  possession  of  all  the  lands,  leaving  only  to  the  clergy 
the  altars,  with  their  tenths  and  oblations,  and  assigning 

'  Lhanbadarn  Vawr,  the  church  of  St.  Paternus  the  Great,  is  situ- 
ated in  a  valley,  at  a  short  distance  from  the  sea-port  town  of  Aberyst- 
wyth in  Cardigansliire.  It  derived  its  name  from  Paternus,  a  dis- 
tinguished saint  in  the  British  history,  of  whom  Cressy  and  archbishop 
Usher  give  the  following  account :  "  The  sanctity  of  St.  Dubricius  and 
St.  David  drew  into  Britain  from  foreign  parts,  St.  Paternus,  a  devout 
young  man,  about  the  year  516,  together  with  847  monks,  who  accom- 
panied him.  These  fixed  themselves  in  a  place  called  Mauritania,  and 
there  St.  Paternus  built  a  chui'ch  and  monastery,  in  which  he  placed 
the  monks  under  an  economus,  a  provost,  and  a  dean.  This  monastery 
seems  to  have  sent  abroad  many  colonies  of  religious  men  into  the  pro- 
vince ;  for  we  find  that  this  saint  built  monasteries  and  churches 
through  all  the  region  called  Ceretica,  now  Cardiganshire.  The  church 
he  erected  in  Mauritania  was  raised  to  the  dignity  of  an  episcopal  see, 
which  he  governed  for  one  and  twenty  years,  and  was  from  him  called 
Paternensis.  He  was  recalled  by  prince  Cai'adoc  into  his  own  native 
coxmtry  of  Lesser  Britany,  where  he  was  made  bishop  of  the  church  oi 
Vanues,  having  left  Kinoc  as  successor  to  his  former  bishopric." 

F  r  2 


436  THE    ITINEBAET    THHOUGH   WALES. 

even  these  to  their  sons  and  relations  in  the  church.  Sue? 
defenders,  or  rather  destroyers,  of  the  church,  have  causec 
themselves  to  be  called  abbots,  and  presumed  to  attribute 
to  themselves  a  title,  as  well  as  estates,  to  which  they  have 
no  just  claim.  In  this  state  we  found  the  church  of  Lhanpa- 
darn,  without  a  head.  A  certain  old  man,  waxen  old  in 
iniquity  (whose  name  was  Eden  Oen,  son  of  Grwaithwoed), 
being  abbot,  and  his  sons  officiating  at  the  altar.  But  in  the 
reign  of  king  Henry  I.,  when  the  authority  of  the  English 
prevailed  in  Wales,  the  monastery  of  St.  Peter  at  Glou- 
cester held  quiet  possession  of  this  church ;  but  after  his 
death,  the  English  being  driven  out,  the  monks  were  ex- 
pelled from  their  cloisters,  and  their  places  supplied  by 
the  same  violent  intrusion  of  clergy  and  laity,  which  had 
formerly  been  practised.  It  happened  that  in  the  reign  of 
king  Stephen,  who  succeeded  Henry  I.,  a  knight,  born  in 
Armorican  Britain,  having  travelled  through  many  parts  of 
the  world,  from  a  desire  of  seeing  different  cities,  aad  the 
manners  of  their  inhabitants,  came  by  chance  to  Lhanpadarn. 
On  a  certain  feast-day,  whilst  both  the  clergy  and  people 
were  waiting  for  the  arrival  of  the  abbot  to  celebrate  mass,  he 
perceived  a  body  of  young  men,  armed,  according  to  the 
custom  of  their  country,  approaching  towards  the  church ; 
and  on  enquiring  which  of  them  was  the  abbot,  they  pointed 
out  to  him  a  man  walking  foremost,  with  a  long  spear  in 
his  hand.  Grazing  on  him  with  amazement,  he  asked,  "  If 
the  abbot  had  not  another  habit,  or  a  different  staff,  from 
that  which  he  now  carried  before  him  ?"  On  their  answer- 
ing, "  No  !"  he  replied,  "  I  have  seen  indeed  and  heard  this 
day  a  wonderful  novelty !"  and  from  that  hour  he  returned 
home,  and  finished  his  labours  and  researches.  This  wicked 
people  boasts,  that  a  certain  bishop '  of  their  church  (for  it 
formerly  was  a  cathedral)  was  murdered  by  their  prede- 
cessors;  and  on  this  account,  chiefly,  they  ground  their 
claims  of  right  and  possession.  No  public  complaint  having 
been  made  against  their  conduct,  we  have  thought  it  more 
prudent  to  pass  over,  for  the  present,  the  enormities  of  thii 

'  The  name  of  this  bishop  is  said  to  have  been  Idnerth,  and  the  Bam« 
personage  whose  death  is  commemorated  in  an  inscription  a^,  Llandev* 
Brefi. 


THEY   ENTER   NOETH   WALES.  437 

wicked  race  with  dissimulation,  than  exasperate  them  by  a 
further  relation. 

CHAPTER  V. 

OE  THE  EIYEB  DEVI,  AND  THE  LAND  OF  THE  SONS  OF  CONAN. 

Approaching  to  the  river  Devi,^  which  divides  North  and 
South  Wales,  the  bishop  of  St.  David's,  and  Rhys  the  son 
of  G-ruffydh,  who,  with  a  liberality  peculiarly  praiseworthy 
in  so  illustrious  a  prince,  had  accompanied  us  from  the 
castle  of  Aberteivi,  throughout  all  Cardiganshire,  to  this 
place,  returned  home.  Having  crossed  the  river  in  a  boat, 
and  quitted  the  diocese  of  St.  David's,  we  entered  the  land 
of  the  sons  of  Conan,  or  Merionyth,  the  first  province  of 
Yenedotia  on  that  side  of  the  country,  and  belonging  to 
the  bishopric  of  Bangor.^  "We  slept  that  night  at  Towyn.^ 
Early  next  morning,  G-ruffydh  son  of  Conan*  came  to  meet 

1  This  river  is  now  called  Dovy. 

2  From  Llanbadam  our  travellers  directed  their  course  towards  the 
eea-coast,  and  ferrying  over  the  river  Dovy,  which  separates  North  from 
South  Wales,  proceeded  to  Towyn,  in  Merionethshire,  where  they  passed 
the  night-  Various  have  been  the  derivations  given  to  the  name  of 
this  country ;  some  have  deduced  its  name  from  Meirion,  the  son  of 
Tibion  ab  Cunedda,  a  chieftain  who  Hved  ia  the  middle  of  the  fifth  cen- 
tury. His  father  was  slain  when  fighting  with  his  brothers  against  the 
Irish,  who  had  established  themselves  in  several  parts  of  the  coasts  of 
Wales,  whereupon  Meirion  had  the  cantref  of  Meirionydd,  and  was 
acknowledged  by  the  people  of  that  district  as  their  lord,  in  reward  for 
his  services  in  driving  the  Irish  out  of  the  country. 

3  Towyn,  now  called  Towyn  Merioneth,  is  a  small  town  built  ia  a  bad 
and  unhealthy  situation,  flanked  on  one  side  by  a  turbary  and  marsh, 
and  distant  about  a  mile  from  the  sea-shore,  where  there  is  a  large  ex- 
tent of  hard  and  level  sands. 

*  The  province  of  Merionyth  was  at  this  period  occupied  by  David, 
the  son  of  Owen  G-wynedh,  who  had  seized  it  forcibly  from  its  rightful 
inheritor.  The  family  of  Conan,  who  bore  rule  in  North  Wales  for  so 
many  years,  descended  from  lago,  or  James,  son  of  Edwal,  who,  after 
the  death  of  Lhewelyn  ap  Sitsylt,  in  1020,  succeeded  to  the  princi- 
pality of  North  Wales :  he  died  in  1037,  and  left  a  son  named  Conan, 
who,  though  heir  to  the  throne,  never  obtained  it :  but  his  son,  Gruffyth 
ap  Conan,  after  the  defeat  and  death  of  Trahaem  ap  Caradoc,  a.d.  1078, 
on  the  mountains  of  Carno,  regained  his  inheritance,  and  maintained 
it  quietly  for  the  long  term  of  fifty-nine  years.  After  his  death,  ia 
1137,  his  sons,  according  to  the  Welsh  custom,  divided  his  lands  be- 
twixt them,  and  the  principality  of  North  Wales  fell  to  the  lot  of  Owen 


438  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOUGH   WALES 

US,  humbly  and  devoutly  asking  pardon  for  having  so  long 
delayed  his  attention  to  the  archbishop.  On  the  same  day, 
we  ferried  over  the  bifurcate  river  Maw,'  where  Malgo,  son 
of  E-hys,  who  had  attached  himself  to  the  archbishop,  as  a 
companion  to  the  king's  court,  discovered  a  ford  near  the  sea. 
That  night  we  lay  at  Lhanvair,^  that  is  the  church  of  St.  Mary, 
in  the  province  of  Ardudwy.^  This  territory  of  Conan,  and 
particmarly  Merionyth,  is  the  rudest  and  roughest  district 
of  all  Wales ;  the  ridges  of  its  mountains  are  very  high  and 
narrow,  terminating  in  sharp  peaks,  and  so  irregularly  jum- 
bled together,  that  if  the  shepherds  conversing  or  disput- 
ing with  each  other,  from  their  summits,  should  agree  to 
meet,  they  could  scarcely  effect  their  purpose  in  the  course 
of  the  whole  day.  The  lances  of  this  country  are  very  long ; 
for  as  South  "Wales  excels  in  the  use  of  the  bow,  so  North 
Wales  is  distinguished  for  its  skill  in  the  lance  ;  insomuch 
that  an  iron  coat  of  mail  will  not  resist  the  stroke  of  a  lance 

Gwynedh,  the  eldest  son  of  the  late  prince,  who  enjoyed  it  for  the  space 
of  thirty-two  years.  On  his  death,  in  1169,  dissensions  arose  amongst 
his  children  respecting  the  succession  .: — "  Edward,  or  lorwerth  Drw- 
■vndwn,  the  eldest  sonne  borne  in  matrimouie,  was  counted  unmeete  to 
governe,  because  of  the  maime  upon  his  face ;  and  Howel,  who  tooke 
upon  him  aU  the  rule,  was  a  base  sonne,  begotten  upon  an  Irish  woroan. 
Therefore  David  gathered  all  the  power  he  could,  and  came  against 
Howel,  and  fighting  with  him,  slew  him,  and  afterwards  enjoied  quietUe 
the  whole  of  North  Wales,  untill  his  brother  lorwerth' s  son  (Lewelyn) 
came  to  age,  and  recovered  his  rightful  inheritance." — Powell.  Gruff- 
ydh  was  son  to  Conan  ap  Owen  Gwynedh ;  he  died  A.D.  1200,  and  was 
buried  in  a  monk's  cowl,  in  the  abbey  of  Conway. 

'  The  epithet  **  bifurcus,"  ascribed  by  Giraldus  to  the  river  Maw, 
alludes  to  its  two  branches,  which  unite  their  streams  a  Httle  way  below 
Llaneltid  bridge,  and  form  an  sestuary,  which  flows  down  to  the  sea  at 
Barmouth,  or  Aber  Maw.  The  ford  at  this  place,  discovered  by  Malgo, 
no  longer  exists. 

2  Llanfair  is  a  small  village,  about  a  mile  and  a  half  from  Harlech, 
with  a  very  simple  church,  placed  in  a  retired  spot,  backed  by  precipi- 
tous mountains.  Here  the  archbishop  and  Gii-aldus  slept,  on  their 
journey  from  Towyn  to  Nevyn,  and  I  hope,  for  their  sakes,  Llanfair 
presented  a  more  respectable  appearance  in  1188,  than  it  did  to  me  in 
1804. 

^  Ardudwy  was  a  comot  of  the  cantrcf  Dunodic,  in  Merionethshire, 
and  according  to  Leland,  "  Streccith  from  half  Trait  Mawr  to  Abermaw 
on  the  shoie  Xii  my  lea."  The  bridge  here  alluded  to,  was  probably 
over  the  river  Artro,  which  forms  a  small  eestuary  near  the  village  of 
Llanbedr. 


JOITENET    ALONG   THE    COAST.  439 

thrown  at  a  small  distance.  The  next  morning,  the  youngest 
son  of  Conan,  named  Meredyth,  met  us  at  the  passage  of  a 
bridge,  attended  by  his  people,  where  many  persons  were 
signed  with  the  cross  ;  amongst  whom  was  a  fine  young  man 
of  his  suite,  and  one  of  his  intimate  friends  ;  and  Meredyth, 
observing  that  the  cloak,  on  which  the  cross  was  to  be 
sewed,  appeared  of  too  thin  and  of  too  common  a  texture, 
with  a  flood  of  tears,  threw  him  down  bis  own. 

CHAPTEE  YI. 

PASSAGE  OF  TRAETH  MAWE  AND  TEAETH  BACHAN,  AND 
OF  NETTN,  CAEN AE YON,  AND  BAN  GOB. 

We  continued  our  journey  over  the  Traeth  Mawr,^  and 
Traeth  Bachan,^  that  is,  the  greater  and  the  smaller  arm  of 
the  sea,  where  two  stone  castles  have  newly  been  erected  ; 
one  called  Deudraeth,  belonging  to  the  sons  of  Conan, 
situated  in  Evionyth,  towards  the  northern  mountains  ;  the 
other  named  Carn  Madryn,^  the  property  of  the  sons  of 
Owen,  built  on  the  other  side  of  the  river  towards  the  sea, 

^  The  Traetli  Mawr,  or  the  large  sands,  are  occasioned  by  a  variety  of 
springs  and  rivers  which  flow  from  the  Snowdon  mountains,  and, 
uniting  their  streams,  form  an  sestuary  below  Pont  Aberglaslljn. 

•^  The  Traeth  Bycban,  or  the  small  sands,  are  chiefly  formed  by  the 
river  which  runs  down  the  beautiful  vale  of  Festiniog  to  Maentwrog 
and  Tan  y  bwieh,  near  which  place  it  becomes  navigable.  Over  each  of 
these  sands  tiie  road  leads  from  Merionyth  into  Caernarvonshire. 

'  Deudraetli,  Carn  Madryn. — Our  author  makes  mention  of  these  two 
castles,  one  in  Evionyth,  or  Caernarvonshire,  towards  the  northern 
mountains,  versus  montnna  bo)-ealta,  called  Deudraeth^  and  the  other  on 
the  headland  of  Lhyn,  named  Carn  Madi-yn.  I  have  not  been  able, 
either  by  personal  researches,  or  by  enquiry  amongst  the  natives,  to 
gain  any  information  respecting  the  castle  named  Deudraeth,  which  in 
the  Welsh  language  implies  a  place  betwixt  the  two  sands.  There  is  a 
promontory  between  the  Traeth  Mawr  and  the  Traeth  Byclian,  called 
Pentyr  Deudraeth,  or  a  promontory  between  two  tracts  of  sand  ;  but  I 
could  gain  no  intelligence  of  any  ancient  fortress  being  visible  on  that 
spot.  The  river  descending  from  the  mountains  under  Pont  Aberglas- 
llyu  and  the  Traeth  Mawr,  seems  to  have  formed  the  ancient  boundary 
between  the  comots  of  Ardudwy  and  Evionyth.  The  other  castle,  Carn 
Madryn,  is  well  known  both  by  name  and  position,  and  still  retains 
many  marks  of  its  high  antiquity  :  it  stands  on  a  lofty  insulated  liill, 
rising  immediately  above  the  wall- wooded  grounds  of  Mr.  Parry,  «t 
Madryn  Ucna. 


440  THE    ITIXERiHT    THROUGH   WALES. 

» 

on  the  head-]  and  Lhyn.^  Traeth,  in  the  "Welsh  language, 
signifies  a  tract  of  sand  flooded  by  the  tides,  and  left  bare 
when  the  sea  ebbs.  We  had  before  passed  over  the  noted 
rivers,  the  Dissenith,^  between  the  Maw  and  Traeth  Mawr, 
and  the  xlrthro,  between  the  Traeth  Mawr  and  Traeth 
Bachan.  We  slept  that  night  at  Nevyn,^  on  the  eve  of 
Palm  Sunday,  where  the  archdeacon,  after  long  inquiry  and 
research,  is  said  to  have  found  Merlin  Sylvestris.* 

1  Lhyn,  the  Canganorum  promontorium  of  Ptolemy,  was  an  exten- 
sive hundred  containing  three  comots,  and  comprehending  that  long 
neck  of  land  between  Caernarvon  and  Cardigan  bays.  Leland  says, 
•'  Al  Lene  is  as  it  were  a  pointe  into  the  se." 

2  In  mentioning  the  rivers  which  the  missionaries  had  lately  crossed, 
our  author  has  been  guilty  of  a  great  topographical  error  in  placing  the 
river  Dissennith  between  the  Maw  and  Traeth  Mawr,  as  also  in  placing 
the  Arthro  between  the  Traeth  Mawr  and  Traeth  Bychan,  as  a  glance 
at  a  map  will  shew. 

3  Nefyn,  a  miserable  village,  situated  on  an  eminence  at  a  short  dis- 
tance from  the  western  coast  of  Caernarvon  Bay,  containing  (in  these 
Dur  modern  days)  no  one  object  worthy  of  note,  yet  in  1284  it  was 
honoured  by  Edward  I.  with  a  royal  visit,  and  a  magnificent  tourna- 
ment. 

4  Merlin  Sylvestris. — To  two  personages  of  this  name  the  gift  of 
prophecy  was  anciently  attributed  :  one  was  called  Ambrosius,  the  other 
Sylvestris  ;  the  latter  here  mentioned  (and  whose  works  Giraldus,  after 
a  long  research,  found  at  Nefyn)  was,  according  to  the  story,  the  son  of 
Moi*vryn,  and  generally  called  Merddin  Wyllt,  or  Merddin  the  Wild. 
He  is  pretended  to  have  flourished  about  the  middle  of  the  sixth  century, 
and  ranked  with  Merddin  Emrys  and  Taliesin,  under  the  appellation  of 
the  three  principal  bards  of  the  Isle  of  Britain.  He  was  born  at  Caer- 
werthevin,  near  the  forest  of  Celyddon  or  DunkeU,  in  Scotland,  where  he 
possessed  a  great  estate,  which  he  lost  in  the  war  of  his  lord  Gwenddolau, 
the  son  of  Ceidio,  and  Aeddan  vradog,  against  Rhydderch  Hael.  His  mis- 
fortunes in  Scotland  drove  him  into  Wales ;  and  there  is  now  extant  a 
poetical  dialogue  between  him  and  his  preceptor  Taliesin.  He  was  pre- 
sent at  the  battle  of  Camlan  in  the  year  542,  where,  fighting  under  the 
banner  of  king  Arthui',  he  accidentally  slew  his  own  nephew,  the  son  of 
his  sister  Gwenddyda,  in  consequence  of  which  calamity  he  was  seized 
with  a  madness  which  affected  him  every  other  hour. 

"  Awr  o'i  g6v  gan  Dduw  ry  gai, 
Awr  yn  mhell  yr  anmhwyllai." 

The  literal  meaning  of  which  is,  "  An  hovcc  of  his  memory  from  God  he 
was  wont  to  have  ;  an  hour  succeedmg  he  would  be  divested  of  reason.*' 
He  fled  back  into  Scotland,  and  concealed  himself  amongst  the  woods, 
but  he  afterwards  returned  to  North  Wales,  where  he  died,  and  was  buried 
in  the  isle  of  Bardsey. 


THE    ISLATsD    OF    BABDSET.  441 

Eeyond  Lliyn,  there  is  a  small  island  inhabited  by  very  re- 
ligious monks,  called  Caelibes,  or  Colidei.  This  island,  either 
from  the  wholesomeness  of  its  climate,  owing  to  its  vicinity 
to  Ireland,  or  rather  from  some  miracle  obtained  by  the 
merits  of  the  saints,  has  this  wonderful  peculiarity,  that  the 
oldest  people  die  first,  because  diseases  are  uncommon,  and 
scarcely  any  die  except  from  extreme  old  age.  Its  name  is 
Enhli  in  the  Welsh,  and  Berdesey^  in  the  Saxon  language  ; 
and  very  many  bodies  of  saints  are  said  to  be  buried  there, 
and  amongst  them  that  of  Daniel,  bishop  of  Bangor. 

The  archbishop  having,  by  his  sermon  the  next  day,  in- 
duced many  persons  to  take  the  cross,  we  proceeded 
towards  Banchor,  passing  through  Caernarvon,^  that  is,  the 

^  Mr.  Pennant  has  given  the  following  description  of  this  island  :— 
*'  From  the  port  of  Aberdaron,  I  took  boat  for  Bardsey  Island,  which 
lies  about  three  leagues  to  the  west.  The  mariners  seemed  tinctvired 
with  the  piety  of  the  place,  for  they  had  not  rowed  far,  but  they  made 
a  full  stop,  pulled  off  their  hats,  and  offered  up  a  short  prayer  After 
doubUng  a  headland,  the  island  appears  full  in  view  ;  we  passed  un- 
der the  lofty  mountain  which  foims  one  side ;  after  doubling  the  fur- 
ther end,  we  put  into  a  little  sandy  creek,  bounded  by  low  rocks,  as  is 
the  whole  level  part.  On  landing,  I  found  all  this  tract  a  very  fertile 
plain,  well  cultivated,  and  productive  of  every  thing  which  the  main 
land  affords.  "I'lie  abbot's  house  is  a  large  stone  building  inhabited  by 
several  of  the  natives  ;  not  far  from  it  is  a  singular  chapel  or  oratory, 
being  a  long  arched  edifice,  with  an  insulated  stone-altar  near  the  east 
end.  In  this  place  one  of  the  inhabitants  reads  prayers ;  all  other 
offices  are  performed  at  Aberdaron."  This  island  once  afforded,  accord- 
ing to  the  old  accounts,  an  asylum  to  twenty  thousand  saints,  and  after 
death,  graves  to  as  many  of  their  bodies  ;  whence  it  has  been  called  In- 
sula Sanctorum,  the  Isle  of  Saints  ;  it  would  be  much  more  facile  to 
find  graves  in  Bardsey  for  so  many  saints,  than  saints  for  so  many 
graves.  The  slaughter  of  the  monks  at  Bangor,  about  the  year  607,  is 
supposed  to  have  contributed  to  the  population  of  this  island,  for  not 
only  the  brethren  who  escaped,  but  numbers  of  other  pious  Britons, 
fled  hither  to  avoid  the  rage  of  the  Saxons.  This  island  derived  its 
British  name  of  Enhli  from  the  fierce  current  which  rages  between  it 
and  the  main  land.  The  Saxons  named  it  Bardsey,  probably  from  the 
Bards,  who  retired  hither,  preferring  solitude  to  the  company  of  invad- 
ing foreigners. 

■■*  This  ancient  city  has  been  recorded  by  a  variety  of  names.  During 
the  time  of  the  Romans  it  was  caDed  Segontiura,  the  site  of  which  is 
now  called  Caer  Seient,  the  fortress  on  the  river  Seient,  where  the  Setan- 
tiorum  portus.  and  the  Seteia  JEstuarium  of  Ptolemy  have  also  been 
placed.  It  is  called,  by  Nennius,  Caer  Custent,  or  the  city  of  Constan- 
tiusj  and  Matthew  of  Westminster  says,  that  about   the  year  1283 


442  THT?,   ITINEEAET    THEOUGH   WALES. 

castle  of  Arvon ;  it  is  called  Arvon,  the  province  opposite 
to  Mon,  because  it  is  so  situated  with  respect  to  the  island 
of  Mona.  Our  road  leading  us  to  a  steep  valley/  with 
many  broken  ascents  and  descents,  we  dismounted  from  our 
horses,  and  proceeded  on  foot,  rehearsing,  as  it  were,  by 
agreement,  some  experiments  of  our  intended  pilgrimage  to 
Jerusalem.  Haviug  traversed  the  valley,  and  reached  the 
opposite  side  with  considerable  fatigue,  the  archbishop,  to 
rest  himself  and  recover  his  breath,  sat  down  on  an  oak 
which  had  been  torn  up  by  the  violence  of  the  winds ;  and 
relaxing  into  a  pleasantry  highl}^  laudable  in  a  person  of  his 
approved  gravity,  thus  addressed  his  attendants :  "  Who 
amongst  you,  in  this  company,  can  now  delight  our  wearied 
ears  by  whistAiug  ?"  which  is  not  easily  done  by  people  out 
of  breath.  He  affirming  that  he  could,  if  he  thought  fit, 
the  sweet  notes  are  heard,  in  an  adjoining  wood,  of  a  bird, 
which  some  said  was  a  wood-pecker,  and  others,  more  cor- 
rectly, an  aureolus.  The  wood-pecker  is  called  in  French, 
spec,  and  with  its  strong  bill,  perforates  oak  trees  ;  the  other 
bird  is  called  aureolus,  from  the  golden  tints  of  its  feathers, 
and  at  certain  seasons  utters  a  sweet  whistling  note,  instead 

the  body  of  Constantius,  father  of  the  emperor  Constantine,  was  found 
there,  and  honourably  deposited  in  the  church  by  order  of  king  Ed- 
ward I.  The  author  of  the  Life  of  Gruifydh  ap  Conan  says,  that  Hugh, 
earl  of  Chester,  built  a  castle  at  this  place  in  Hen  Caer  Custennei, 
i.  e.  the  old  city  of  Constantius.  The  name  of  Caernarvon  was  derived 
from  its  being  situated  opposite  to  Mona,  or  Anglesey.  Caer-ar-Mon, 
the  fortress  over  against  Mona.  On  a  gentle  eminence  above  the  river 
Seient,  stood  the  Roman  city  of  Segontium,  of  which  very  evident  traces 
still  exist.  The  area  of  the  camp,  which  is  of  the  oblong  square  form, 
with  rounded  angles  (so  generally  adopted  throughout  Wales  by  the 
Romans  in  the  construction  of  their  forts),  is  inclosed  by  stone  walls 
firmly  cemented  together  with  mortar  and  brick  intermixed ;  and  is 
intersected  by  the  turnpike  road  leading  from  Caernarvon  to  Beddgelert, 
leaving  the  greater  part  of  the  area  on  the  south  side. 

'  I  searched  in  vain  for  a  valley  Avhich  would  answer  the  description 
here  given  by  Giraldus,  and  the  scene  of  so  much  pleasantry  to  the  tra- 
vellers ;  for  neither  do  the  old  or  new  road,  from  Caernarvon  to  Bangor, 
in  any  way  correspond.  But  I  have  since  been  informed,  that  there  is  a 
valley  called  Nant  y  Garth  (near  the  residence  of  Ashton  Smith,  Esq., 
at  Vaenol),  which  terminates  at  about  half  a  mUe's  distance  from  the 
Menai,  and  therefore  not  observable  from  the  road  ;  it  is  a  serpentine 
ravine  of  more  than  a  mile,  in  a  direction  towards  the  mountains,  and 
probably  that  which  the  crusaders  crossed  on  their  journey  to  Bangor. 


THE    SEE    or    BANGOR.  44S 

of  a  Bong.^  Some  persons  having  remarked,  that  the  night- 
ingale was  never  heard  in  this  country,  the  archbishop,  with 
a  significant  smile,  replied,  "  The  nightingale  followed  wise 
counsel,  and  never  came  into  "Wales  ;  but  we,  unwise  coun- 
sel, who  have  penetrated  and  gone  through  it."  We  re- 
mained that  night  at  Banchor,^  the  metropolitan  see  of  North 
"Wales,  and  were  well  entertained  by  the  bishop  of  the  dio- 
cese.^ On  the  next  day,  mass  being  celebrated  by  the 
archbishop  before  the  high  altar,  the  bishop  of  that  see,  at 
the  instance  of  the  archbishop  and  other  persons,  more  im- 
portunate than  persuasive,  was  compelled  to  take  the  cross, 
to  the  general  concern  of  all  his  people  of  both  sexes,  who 
expressed  their  grief  on  this  occasion  by  loud  and  lamentable 
vociferations. 

CHAPTEE  YII. 

THE    ISLAND    OF    MONA. 

From  hence,  we  crossed  over  a  small  arm  of  the  sea  to 
the  island  of  Mona,*  distant  from  thence  about  two  miles, 

^  I  have  not  been  able  to  ascertain  the  bird  here  alluded  to  by  our 
author  under  the  Latin  name  of  aur&olus. 

2  Bangor. — This  cathedral  church  must  not  be  confounded  with  the 
celebrated  college  of  the  same  name,  in  Flintshire,  founded  by  Dunod 
Vawr,  son  of  Pabo,  a  chieftain  who  Hved  about  the  beginning  of  the 
sixth  century,  and  from  liim  called  Bangor  Dunod.  The  Bangor,  t.  e. 
the  college,  in  Caernarvonshire,  is  properly  called  Bangor  Deiniol,  Ban- 
gor Vawr  yn  Arllechwedh,  and  Bangor  Vawr  uch  Conwy.  It  owes  its 
origin  to  Deiniol,  son  of  Dunod  ap  Pabo,  a  saint  who  lived  in  the  early 
part  of  the  sixth  century,  and  in  the  year  525  foimded  this  college  at 
Bangor,  in  Caernarvonshire,  over  which  he  presided  as  abbot.  But  the 
historian  Cressy  places  the  date  of  its  foundation  in  516,  and  adds,  *'  In 
the  same  place  Malgo  Conan  not  long  after  built  a  city,  which  for  the 
beauty  of  its  situation  he  called  Ban-cor,  i.  e.  the  high  or  conspicuous 
choir."  This  college  was  afterwards  raised  to  the  dignity  of  a  bishop- 
ric, and  Daniel  was  elected  the  first  bishop,  about  the  year  550.  Gruy 
Rufus,  called  by  our  author  Guianus,  was  at  this  time  bishop  of  this 
see,  and  died  in  1190,  when  Griraldus  Cambrensis,  archdeacon  of  Breck- 
nock, was  elected  to  the  vacant  bishopric  of  Bangor  ;  but  he  refused 
the  dignity  thus  voluntarily  offered  to  him. 

^  Guianus,  or  Guy  Rufus,  dean  of  Waltham,  in  Essex,  and  conse- 
crated to  this  see,  at  Ambresbury,  Wilts,  in  May  1177.  In  1188,  he 
attended  Baldwin  in  his  progress  through  Wales,  and  died  about  two 
years  afterwards. 

*  Mona,  or  Anglesey.  This  island,  once  the  principal  seat  of  the 
I^ruids,  and  the  last  asylum  to  ^hich  the  distressed  Britons  fled  for 


444  THE    ITINEEAET    THROUGH   WALES. 

where  Eoderic,  the  younger  son  of  Owen,  attended  by 
nearly  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  island,  and  many  others 
from  the  adjacent  countries,  caine  in  a  devout  manner  to 
meet  us.  Confession  having  been  made  in  a  place  near  the 
shore,  where  the  surrounding  rocks  seemed  to  form  a  na- 
tural theatre,^  many  persons  were  induced  to  take  the  crosp, 

succour  from  the  victorious  Romans ;  the  residence  of  the  British 
princes,  and  the  stronghold  of  their  expiring  armies ;  contains  many 
interesting  monuments  of  the  higliest  antiquity,  and  coeval  with  its 
ancient  inhabitants,  the  Druids.  Its  sovereignty  appears  to  have  been 
both  frequently  and  sturdily  contested  for  above  four  centuries,  and  was 
the  scene  on  which  the  last  and  decisive  battle  was  fought  between  the 
Welsh  and  English  ;  and  although  prince  Llewelyn  here  witnessed 
the  total  overthrow  of  his  rival,  king  Edward  I.,  and  the  discomfiture  of 
his  army,  with  the  loss  of  many  of  its  most  illustrious  knights  and  chief- 
tains, yet  fortune,  on  this  occasion,  seems  only  to  have  glimmered  for  a 
moment  in  his  favour,  for  in  the  ensuing  year  he  was  betrayed,  and  lost 
his  life  near  Builth  in  Brecknock.  This  island,  which  in  modern  days 
deserves  the  epithets  applied  to  it  by  Giraldus  in  this  chapter,  once  bore 
a  very  different  appearance.  When  attacked  by  the  Roman  general 
Suetonius,  the  sacred  woods  of  the  Druids  were  levelled  to  the  ground  : 
*'  Praesidium  impositum  victis,  excisique  luci  ssevis  superstitionibus 
Bacri.**  At  a  much  later  period  we  find  it  well  provided  with  trees  ; 
for  in  the  year  1102,  the  Welsh  Chronicle  says,  "  that  Magnus  landed 
in  Anglesey,  and  hewed  down  as  much  timber  wood  as  was  needful  for 
him."  Dreary  as  its  outward  aspect  may  seem  to  the  traveller,  it  still 
contains  many  interesting  objects  of  attention  ;  it  is  particularly  rich  in 
Druidical  remains,  the  finest  specimen  of  which  is  to  be  seen  in  the 
park  of  Lord  Uxbridge,  at  Plas  Newydd.  The  Paris  Mountains  de- 
serve the  notice  of  the  artist,  as  well  as  the  mineralogist :  for  the  ma- 
jestic grandeur  and  effect  of  their  excavations  cannot  be  surpassed ; 
neither  should  the  stately  and  well-preserved  castle  at  Beaumaris  be 
overlooked,  though  inferior  in  point  of  situation  to  its  rival  brothers  at 
Conway  and  Caernarvon. 

'  The  spot  selected  by  Baldwin  for  addressing  the  multitude,  has  in 
some  degree  been  elucidated  by  the  anonymous  author  of  the  Supple- 
ment to  Rowland's  Mona  Antiqua.  He  says,  that  "From  tradition 
and  memorials  still  retained,  we  have  reasons  to  suppose  that  they  met 
in  an  open  place  in  the  parish  of  Landisiho,  called  Cerrig  y  Borth. 
The  inhabitants,  by  a  grateful  remembrance,  to  perpetuate  the  honour 
of  that  day,  called  the  place  where  the  archbishop  stood,  Carreg  yr 
Archjagon,  i.  e.  the  Archbishop's  Rock ;  and  where  prince  Roderic 
stood,  Maen  Roderic,  or  the  Stone  of  Roderic."  This  account  is  in 
part  corroborated  by  the  following  communication  from  Mr.  Richard 
Liwyd  of  Beaumaris,  who  made  personal  enquiries  on  the  spot.  "  Cer- 
tig  y  Bortli,  being  a  rough,  undulating  district,  could  not,  for  that  rea- 
lon,  have  been  chosen  for  addressing  a  multitude  j  but  adjoining  it 


THE   ISLAND    OF   ANGLE8EA.  445 

by  the  persuasive  discourses  of  the  archbishop,  and  Alex- 
ander,' our  interpreter,  archdeacon  of  that  place,  and  of 
Sisillus,  abbot  of  Stratflur.  Many  chosen  youths  of  the 
family  of  Eoderic  were  seated  on  an  opposite  rock,  and  not 
one  of  them  could  be  prevailed  upon  to  take  the  cross, 
although  the  archbishop  and  others  most  earnestly  exhorted 
them,  but  in  vain,  by  an  address  particularly  directed  to 
them.  It  came  to  pass  within  three  days,  as  if  by  divine 
vengeauce,  that  these  young  men,  with  many  others,  pur- 
sued some  robbers  of  that  country.  Being  discomfited  and 
put  to  flight,  some  were  slain,  others  mortally  wounded, 
and  the  survivors  voluntarily  assumed  that  cross  they  had 
before  despised.  E-oderic,  also,  who  a  short  time  before  had 
incestuously  married  the  daughter  of  Khys,  related  to  him 
by  blood  in  the  third  degree,  in  order,  by  the  assistance  of 
that  prince,  to  be  better  able  to  defend  himself  against  the 
sons  of  his  brothers,  whom  he  had  disinherited,  not  paying 
attention  to  the  wholesome  admonitions  of  the  archbishop 
on  this  subject,  was  a  little  while  afterwards  dispossessed  of 
all  his  lands  by  their  means ;  thus  deservedly  meeting  with 
disappointment  from  the  very  source  from  which  he  ex- 
pected support.  The  island  of  Mona  contains  three  hun- 
dred and  forty-three  vills,  considered  equal  to  three  cant- 
reds.      Cantred,  a  compound  word   from  the  British  and 

there  are  two  eminences  which  command  a  convenient  surface  for  that 
purpose ;  one;  caUed  Maen  Kodi  (the  Stone  or  Rock  of  Eoderic),  the 
property  of  Owen  Williams,  Esq.  ;  and  the  other  Carreg  lago,  belong- 
ing to  Lord  Uxbridge.  This  last,  as  now  pronounced,  means  the  Rock 
of  St.  James ;  but  I  have  no  difficulty  in  admitting,  that  Carreg  yr 
Arch  lagon  may  (by  the  compression  of  common,  undiscriminating 
language,  and  the  obliteration  of  the  event  from  ignorant  minds  by  the 
lapse  of  so  many  centuries)  be  contracted  into  CaiTeg  lago.  Cadair  yr 
archesgob  is  now  also  contracted  into  Cadair  (chair),  a  seat  naturally 
formed  in  the  rock,  with  a  rude  arch  over  it,  on  the  road  side,  which  is 
a  rough  terrace  over  the  breast  of  a  rocky  and  commanding  cliff,  and 
the  nearest  way  from  the  above  eminences  to  the  insulated  church  of 
Landisilio.  This  word  Cadair,  though  in  general  language  a  chair,  yet 
when  applied  to  exalted  situations,  means  an  observatory,  as  Cadair 
Idris,  &c. ;  but  there  can,  in  my  opinion,  be  no  doubt  that  this  seat  in 
the  rock  is  that  described  by  the  words  Cadair  yr  Archesgob." 

^  Alexander,  who  acted  as  interpreter  between  the  Welsh  and  En- 
glish, was  archdeacon  of  Bangor  in  1106,  and  held  the  same  dignitjr  ia 
1188,  when  archbishop  Baldwin  visited  these  parts. 


416  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOUGH  WALES. 

Irish  languages,  is  a  portion  of  land  equal  to  one  hundred 
vills.  There  are  three  islands  contiguous  to  Britain,  on 
its  different  sides,  which  are  said  to  be  nearly  of  an  equal 
size — the  Isle  of  Wight  on  the  south,  Mona  on  the  west, 
and  Mania  (Man)  on  the  north-west  side.  The  two  first 
are  separated  from  Britain  by  narrow  channels  ;  the  third  is 
much  further  removed,  lying  almost  midway  between  the 
countries  of  Ulster  in  Ireland  and  Gralloway  in  Scotland. 
The  island  of  Mona  is  an  arid  and  stony  land,  rough  and 
unpleasant  in  its  appearance,  similar  in  its  exterior  qualities 
to  the  land  of  Pebidion,^  near  St.  David's,  but  very  different 
as  to  its  interior  value.  For  this  island  is  incomparably 
more  fertile  in  corn  than  any  other  part  of  Wales,  from 
whence  arose  the  British  proverb,  "  Mon  mam  Cymbry, 
Mona  mother  of  Wales ;"  and  when  the  crops  have  been 
defective  in  all  other  parts  of  the  country,  this  island,  from 
the  richness  of  its  soil  and  abundant  produce,  has  been  able 
to  supply  all  Wales. 

As  many  things  within  this  island  are  worthy  of  remark, 
I  shall  not  think  it  superfluous  to  make  mention  of  some  of 
them.  There  is  a  stone  here  resembling  a  human  thigh,^ 
which  possesses  this  innate  virtue,  that  whatever  distance 
it  may  be  carried,  it  returns,  of  its  own  accord,  the  follow- 
ing night,  as  has  often  been  experienced  by  the  inhabitants. 
Hugh,  earl  of  Chester,^   in   the  reign  of  king  Henry  I., 

^  This  hundred  contained  the  comots  of  Mynyw,  or  St.  David's,  and 
Pencaer. 

2  I  am  indebted  to  Mr.  Richard  Llwyd  for  the  following  curious 
extract  from  a  Manuscript  of  the  late  inteUigent  Mr.  Rowlands,  respect- 
ing this  miraculous  stone,  called  Maen  Morddwyd,  or  the  stone  of  the 
thigh,  which  once  existed  in  Llanidan  parish.  "  Hie  etiam  lapis  lumbi, 
vulgo  Maen  Morddwyd,  in  hujus  csemiterii  vallo  locum  sibi  e  longo  a 
retro  tempore  obtinuit,  exindeque  his  nuperis  annis,  quo  nescio  papi 
cola  yel  qua  inscia  manu  nulla  ut  olim  retinente  virtute,  quae  tunc  pe- 
nitus  elanguit  aut  vetustate  evaporavit,  nullo  sane  loci  dispendio,  neo 
iUi  qui  eripuit  emolumento,  ereptus  et  deportatus  fuit." 

3  Hugh,  earl  of  Chester.  The  first  earl  of  Chester  after  the  Norman  con- 
quest, was  Grherbod,  a  Fleming,  who,  having  obtained  leave  from  king 
WiUiam  to  go  into  Flanders  for  the  purpose  of  arranging  some  famUy 
concerns,  was  taken  and  detained  a  prisoner  by  his  enemies  ;  upon 
which  the  conqueror  bestowed  the  earldom  of  Chester  on  Hugh  dd 
Abrincis,  "  to  hold  as  freely  by  the  sword,  as  the  king  himself  did 
England  by  the  crown."     He  remained  steady  to  the  cause  of  Willi«i» 


A   MIEACTJLOUS    STOJTE.  447 

having  by  force  occupied  this  island  and  tlie  adjacent 
country,  heard  of  the  miraculous  power  of  this  stone,  and, 
for  the  purpose  of  trial,  ordered  it  to  be  fastened,  with 
strong  iron  chains,  to  one  of  a  larger  size,  and  to  be  thrown 
into  the  sea.  On  the  following  morning,  however,  accord- 
ing to  custom,  it  was  found  in  its  original  position,  on 
which  account  the  earl  issued  a  public  edict,  that  no  one, 
from  that  time,  should  presume  to  move  the  stone  from 
its  place.  A  countryman,  also,  to  try  the  powers  of  this 
stone,  fastened  it  to  his  thigh,  which  immediately  became 
putrid,  and  the  stone  returned  to  its  original  situation. 
There  is  in  the  same  island  a  stony  hill,  not  very  large 

Rufu8  during  all  his  reign,  and  by  his  military  skill  and  prowess  en- 
larged his  territories  in  Wales,  winning  the  province  of  Tegengl  and 
Ryvonioc,  with  all  the  land  by  the  sea-shore  unto  the  river  of  Conway. 
In  the  year  1096,  he  leagued  with  Hugh  earl  of  Shrewsbury  against  the 
Welsh,  and  attacked  the  Island  of  Anglesey,  the  particulars  of  which 
are  thus  related  in  the  Welsh  Chronicle.  "  The  year  following  being 
1096,  Hugh  de  Mountgomerie,  earle  of  Arundell  and  Salopsburie,  whom 
the  Welshmen  call  Hugh  Goch,  that  is  to  say,  Hugh  the  Eed-headed, 
and  Hugh  Vras,  that  is  Hugh  the  Eat,  earle  of  Chester,  and  a  great 
number  of  nobles  more,  did  gather  a  huge  armie,  and  entred  into  North 
Wales,  being  thereto  moved  by  certeine  lords  of  the  countrie.  But 
Gruffyth  ap  Conan  the  prince,  and  Cadogan  ap  Blethyn,  tooke  the 
hilles  and  moimtaines  for  their  defense  ;  bicause  they  were  not  able  to 
meet  with  the  earles,  neither  durst  they  well  trust  their  owne  men. 
And  so  the  earles  came  over  against  the  ile  of  Mon,  or  Anglesey,  where 
they  did  build  a  casteH  of  Aberlhiennawc.  Then  Gruffyth  and  Cadogan 
did  go  to  Anglesey,  thinking  to  defend  the  ile,  and  sent  for  succour  to 
Ireland ;  but  they  received  verie  small.  Then  the  treason  appeared, 
for  Owen  ap  Edwyn  (who  was  the  prince's  cheefe  counsellor,  and  his 
father-in-law,  whose  daughter  Gruffyth  had  married,  having  himselfe 
also  married  Everyth  the  daughter  of  Convyn,  aimt  to  Cadogan)  was 
the  cheefe  caUer  of  those  strangers  into  Wales,  who  openlie  went  with 
all  his  power  to  them,  and  did  lead  them  to  the  ile  of  Anglesey,  which 
thing,  when  Gruffyth  and  Cadogan  perceived,  they  sailed  to  Ireland, 
mistrusting  the  treason  of  theu'e  owne  people.  Then  the  earles  spoiled 
the  ile,  and  slew  aU  that  they  found  there.  And  at  the  verie  same  time, 
Magnus,  the  sonne  of  Haroald,  came  with  a  great  navie  of  ships  towards 
England,  minding  to  laie  faster  hold  upon  that  kingdome  than  his 
father  had  done,  and  being  driven  by  chavmce  to  Anglesey,  woiJd  have 
landed  there,  but  the  earles  kept  him  from  the  land.  And  there  Mag- 
nus with  an  arrowe  stroke  Hugh  earle  of  Salop  in  the  face,  that  he  died 
thereof;  and  suddenlie  either  part  forsooke  the  ile,  and  the  Enghshmea 
returned  to  England,  and  left  Owen  ap  Edwyn  prince  in  the  land,  who 
had  allured  them  thither."— P.  156. 


448  THE    ITINERARY   THEOTJGH   WALES. 

or  higb,  from  one  side  of  whicli,  if  you  cry  aloud,  you  wiH 
not  be  heard  on  the  other  ;  and  it  is  called  (by  antiphrasis) 
the  rock  of  hearers.  In  the  northern  part  of  Grreat  Britain 
(Northumberland)  so  named  by  the  English,  from  its  situ- 
ation beyond  the  river  Humber,  there  is  a  hill  of  a  similar 
nature,  where  if  a  loud  horn  or  trumpet  is  sounded  on  one 
side,  it  cannot  be  heard  on  the  opposite  one.  There  is  also 
in  this  island  the  church  of  St.  Tefredaucus,^  into  which 
Hugh,  earl  of  Shrewsbury  (who,  together  with  the  earl  of 
Chester,  had  forcibly  entered  Anglesey),  on  a  certain  night 
put  some  dogs,  which  on  the  following  morning  were  found 
mad,  and  he  himself  died  within  a  month  ;  for  some  pirates, 
from  the  Orcades,  having  entered  the  port  of  the  island  in 
their  long  vessels,  the  earl,  apprised  of  their  approach, 
boldly  met  them,  rushing  into  the  sea  upon  a  spirited  horse. 
The  commander  of  the  expedition,  Magnus,  standing  on  the 
prow  of  the  foremost  ship,  aimed  an  arrow  at  him  ;  and, 
although  the  earl  was  completely  equipped  in  a  coat  of 
mail,  and  guarded  in  every  part  of  his  body  except  his  eyes, 
the  unlucky  weapon  struck  his  right  eye,  and,  entering  his 
brain,  he  fell  a  lifeless  corpse  into  the  sea.  The  victor,  see- 
ing him  in  this  state,  proudly  and  exultingly  exclaimed,  in 
the  Danish  tongue,  "  Leit  loup,"  let  him  leap  ;  and  from 
this  time  the  power  of  the  English  ceased  in  Anglesey.  In 
our  times,  also,  when  Henry  II.  was  leading  an  army  into 
North  Wales,  where  he  had  experienced  the  ill  fortune  of 
war  in  a  narrow,  woody  pass  near  Coleshulle,  he  sent  a  fleet 
into  Anglesey,  and  began  to  plunder  the  aforesaid  church,  and 
other  sacred  places.  But  the  divine  vengeance  pursued  him, 
for  the  inhabitants  rushed  upon  the  invaders,  few  against 
many,  unarmed  against  armed ;  and  having  slain  great 
numbers,  and  taken  many  prisoners,  gained  a  most  com- 
plete and  bloody  victory.  Eor,  as  our  Topography  of 
Ireland  testifies,  that  the  Welsh  and  Irish  are  more  prone 
to  anger  and  revenge  than  any  other  nations,  the  saints, 
likewise,  of  those  countries  appear  to  be  of  a  more  vindic- 
tive nature. 

*  This  church  is  at  Llandyfrydog,  a  small  village  in  Twrkelin  hun- 
dred, not  far  distant  from  Llanelian,  and  about  three  miles  from  the 
Bay  of  Dulas.  St.  Tyvrydog,  to  whom  it  was  dedicated,  was  one  of  the 
eons  of  Arwystyl  Glof,  a  saint  who  lived  iu  the  latter  part  of  the  '-"*" 
century. 


PRIESTHOLME    ISLAND.  449 

Two  noble  persons,  and  uncles  of  the  author  of  this  book, 
were  sent  thither  by  the  king ;  namely,  Henry,  son  of  king 
Henry  I.,  and  uncle  to  king  Henry  II.,  by  Nest,  daughter 
of  Rhys,  prince  of  South  Wales  ;  and  Eobert  Fitzstephen, 
brother  to  Henry,  a  man  who  in  our  days,  shewing 
the  way  to  others,  first  attacked  Ireland,  and  whose  fame  is 
recorded  in  our  Vaticinal  History.  Henry,  actuated  by 
too  much  valour,  and  ill  supported,  was  pierced  by  a  lance, 
and  fell  amongst  the  foremost,  to  the  great  concern  of  his 
attendants ;  and  Kobert,  despairing  of  being  able  to  defend 
himself,  was  badly  wounded,  and  escaped  with  difficulty  to 
the  ships. 

There  is  a  small  island,  almost  adjoining  to  Anglesey, 
wliich  is  inhabited  by  hermits,  living  by  manual  labour,  and 
serving  Q-od.  It  is  remarkable  that  when,  by  the  inlluence 
of  human  passions,  any  discord  arises  among  them,  all  their 
provisions  are  devoured  and  infected  by  a  species  of  small 
mice,  with  which  the  island  abounds  ;  but  when  the  discord 
ceases,  they  are  no  longer  molested.  Nor  is  it  to  be  won- 
dered at,  if  the  servants  of  God  sometimes  disagree,  since 
Jacob  and  Esau  contended  in  the  womb  of  Eeibecca,  and 
Paul  and  Barnabas  differed;  the  disciples  also  of  Jesua  dis- 
puted which  of  them  should  be  the  greatest,  for  these  are 
the  temptations  of  human  infirmity ;  yet  virtue  is  often 
made  perfect  by  infirmity,  and  faith  is  increased  by  tribu- 
lations. This  island  is  called  in  Welsh,  Ynys  Lenach,^  or 
the  ecclesiastical  island,  because  many  bodies  of  saints  are 
deposited  there,  and  no  woman  is  suftered  to  enter  it. 

We  saw  in  Anglesea  a  dog,  who  accidentally  had  lost  his 
tail,  and  whose  whole  progeny  bore  the  same  defect.  It  is 
wonderful  that  nature  should,  as  it  were,  conform  itself  in 
this  particular  to  the  accident  of  the  father.     We  saw  also 

'  Ynys  Lenach,  now  known  by  the  name  of  Priestliolme  Island,  bore 
also  the  title  of  Ynys  Seiriol,  from  a  saint  who  resided  upon  it  in  the 
sixth  century.  It  is  also  mentioned  by  Dugdale  and  Pennant  under 
the  appellation  of  Insula  Q-lannauch.  The  fretum,  which  separates  the 
island  from  the  main  land,  is  something  more  than  half  a  mile  across. 
The  island  ia  between  half  and  three  quarters  of  a  mile  long,  and  nearly 
of  an  oval  form,  precipitous,  with  an  inclination  to  the  north.  1'he 
soil  is  rich,  with  a  small  poHion  of  sand  intermixed.  It  can  boast  of 
no  builc"ings  but  a  ruined  tower,  and  of  no  inhabitants  but  sheep  and 
rabbiiB. 

G    Q 


4f50  THE    ITIKERAET    THEOUGH    TVALES. 

a  knight,  named  Earthbald,  born  in  DevoiiS?iire,  whose 
father,  denying  the  child  with  which  his  mother  was  preg- 
nant, and  from  motives  of  jealousy  accusing  her  of  incon- 
stancy, nature  alone  decided  the  controversy  by  the  birth 
of  the  child,  who,  by  a  miracle,  exhibiterl  on  his  upper  lip  a 
scar,  similar  to  one  his  father  bore  in  consequence  of  a 
wound  he  had  received  from  a  lance  in  one  of  his  military 
expeditions.  Stephen,  the  son  of  Earthbald,  had  a  similar 
mark,  the  accident  being  in  a  manner  converted  into  nature. 
A  like  miracle  of  nature  occurred  in  earl  Alberic,  son  of  Al- 
beric  earl  of  Yeer,^  whose  father,  during  the  pregnancy  of  his 
mother,  the  daughter  of  Henry  of  Essex,  having  laboured 
to  procure  a  divorce,  on  account  of  the  ignominy  of  her 
father,  the  child,  when  born,  had  the  same  blemish  in  its 
eye,  as  the  father  had  got  from  a  casual  hurt.  These  de- 
fects may  be  entailed  on  the  offspring,  perhaps,  by  the  im- 
pression made  on  the  memory  by  frequent  and  steady  ob- 
servation ;  as  it  is  reported  that  a  queen,  accustomed  to  see 
the  picture  of  a  negro  in  her  chamber,  unexpectedly  brought 
forth  a  black  child,  and  is  exculpated  by  Quintilian,  on 
account  of  the  picture.  In  like  manner  it  happened  to  the 
spotted  sheep,  given  by  Laban  out  of  his  flock  to  his  nephew 
Jacob,  and  which  conceived  by  means  of  variegated  rods.* 

'  Alberic  de  Yeer,  or  Yere,  came  into  England  with  "VYiHiain  the 
Conqueror,  and  as  a  reward  for  his  military  serrices,  received  very  ex- 
tensive possessions  and  lands,  particularly  in  the  county  of  Essex.  Al- 
beric, his  eldest  son,  was  great  chamberlain  of  England  in  the  reign  of 
king  Henry  I.,  and  was  killed  A.D.  1140,  in  a  popular  tumult  at  Lon- 
don. Henry  de  Essex  married  one  of  his  daughters  named  Adehza. 
He  enjoyed,  by  inheritance,  the  office  of  standard-bearer,  and  behaved 
himself  so  unworthily  in  the  military  expedition  which  king  Henry 
undertook  against  Owen  Gwjnedh,  prince  of  North  Wales  in  the  year 
1157,  by  throwing  down  his  ensign,  and  betaking  himself  to  flight,  that 
he  was  challenged  for  this  misdemeanor  by  Robert  de  Mountford,  and 
by  him  vanquished  in  single  combat ;  whereby,  according  to  the  laws 
of  his  country,  his  life  was  justly  forfeited.  But  the  king  interposing 
his  royal  mercy,  spared  it,  but  confiscated  his  estates,  ordering  hira  to 
be  shorn  a  monk,  and  placed  in  the  abbey  of  Reading.  There  appears 
to  be  some  biographical  error  in  the  words  of  Giraldus — "Filia  sciUcet 
Henrici  de  Essexia,"  for  by  the  genealogical  accounts  of  the  Yere  and 
Essex  families,  we  find  that  Henry  de  Essex  married  the  daughter 
of  the  second  Alberic  de  Yere ;  whereas  our  autlior  seems  to  imply, 
that  the  mother  of  Alberic  the  second  was  daughter  to  Henry  de  Essex. 

2  "  And  Jacob  took  him  rods  of  green  poplar,  and  of  the  hazel,  aad 


THE    EIYEE    CONWAY.  451 

Nor  is  the  child  always  affected  by  the  mother's  imagination 
alone,  but  sometimes  by  that  of  the  father ;  for  it  is  well 
known  that  a  man,  seeing  a  passenger  near  him,  who  was 
convulsed  both  behind  and  before,  on  going  home  and 
telling  his  wife  that  he  could  not  get  the  impression  of  this 
sight  off  his  mind,  begat  a  child  who  was  affected  in  a 
similar  manner. 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

PASSAGE     OP     THE     ElYER     COKWT     IN   A     BOAT,     AND      OF 
DINA8    EMETS. 

On  our  return  to  Banchor  from  Mona,  we  were  shown  the 
tombs  of  prince  Owen  and  his  younger  brother  Cadwa- 
lader,^  who  were  buried  in  a  double  vault  before  the  higli 
altar,  although  Owen,  on  account  of  his  public  incest  with 
his  cousin-germ  an,  had  died  excommunicated  by  the  blessed 
martyr  St.  Thomas,  the  bishop  of  that  see  having  been 
enjoined  to  seize  a  proper  opportunity  of  removing  his  body 
from  the  church.  We  continued  our  journey  on  the  sea 
coast,  confined  on  one  side  by  steep  rocks,  and  by  the  sea 
on  the  other,  towards  the  river  Conwy,  which  preserves 
its  waters  unadulterated  by  the  sea.^     Not  far  from  the 

of  the  chesnut  tree,  and  peeled  white  strakes  in  them,  and  made  the 
white  appear  which  was  in  the  rods.  And  he  set  the  rods,  which  he 
had  peeled,  before  the  flocks  in  the  gutters  in  the  watering  troughs, 
when  the  flocks  came  to  drink,  that  they  should  conceive  when  they 
came  to  drink.  And  the  flocks  conceived  before  the  rods,  and  brought 
fortli  cattle  speckled  and  spotted." — Gen.  xxx. 

•  Owen  Grwynedh,  the  son  of  Q-ruffyth  ap  Conan,  died  in  1169,  and 
was  buried  at  Bangor.  When  Baldwin,  during  his  progress,  visited 
Bangor  and  saw  his  tomb,  he  charged  the  bishop  (Guy  Rufius)  to  re- 
move the  body  out  of  the  cathedral,  when  he  had  a  fit  opportunity  so 
to  do,  in  regard  that  archbishop  Becket  had  excommunicated  him 
heretofore,  because  he  had  married  his  first  cousin,  the  daughter  of 
Grono  ap  Edwyn,  and  that  notwithstanding  he  had  continued  to  Hve 
with  her  till  slie  died.  The  bishop,  in  obedience  to  the  charge,  made 
a  passage  from  the  vault  through  the  south  wall  of  the  church  un- 
derground, and  thus  secretly  shoved  the  body  into  the  churchyard. — 
Hengwrt.  MSS.    Cadwallader,  brother  of  Owen  Gwynedh,  died  in  1172. 

-  The  same  vulgar  opinion  seems  to  have  prevailed  in  the  days  of 
Giraldus  respecting  the  river  Conway  as  in  more  modern  times  has  beeu 
held  both  to  the  river  Rhone  in  Switzerland  and  the  river  Dee  in 
Merionethshire,  one  of  which  is  said  to  continue  its  course  unvaried 
through  the  lake  of  Geneva,  and  the  other  through  the  lake  of  Bala, 

G   G  2 


452  THE    ITINEEAEY    THEOUGH   WALES. 

source  of  the  river  Conwy,^  at  the  head  of  the  Eryri  moun- 
tain, which  on  this  side  extends  itself  towards  the  north, 
stands  Dinas  Emrys,'  that  is,  the  promontory  of  Ambrosius, 
where  Merlin^  uttered  his  prophecies,  whilst  Yortigem  was 
seated  upon  the  bank.  There  were  two  Merlins ;  the  one 
called  Ambrosius,  who  prophesied  in  the  time  of  king  Yor- 
t^  ;ern,  was  begotten  by  a  demon  incubus,  and  found  at  Caer- 
i.ardin,  from  which  circumstance  that  city  derived  its  name 
of  Caermardin,  or  the  city  of  Merlin ;  the  other  Merlin,  born 
in  Scotland,  was  named  Celidonius,  from  the  Celidonian 
wood  in  which  he  prophesied ;  and  Sylvester,  because  when 
engaged  in  martial  conflict,  he  discovered  in  the  air  a  ter- 
rible monster,  and  from  that  time  grew  mad,  and  taking 
shelter  in  a  wood,  passed  the  remainder  of  his  days  in  a 
savage  state.  This  Merlin  lived  in  the  time  of  king  Arthur, 
and  is  said  to  have  prophesied  more  fully  and  explicitly  than 
the  other.     I  shall  pass  over  in  silence  what  w^as  done  by 

^  Tlie  river  Conway  takes  its  rise  far  to  the  east  of  Snowdon,  on  a 
dreary  range  of  mountains  between  Festiniog  and  Yspytty  Evan,  where 
there  is  a  very  large  lake  (inferior  only  in  size  to  that  of  Bala),  and 
which  may  be  truly  called  the  chief  source  of  this  river.  In  its  course 
to  Llanrwst,  it  forms  many  fine  and  precipitous  cataracts. 

"^  This  singularly  insidated  hill,  which  still  retains  its  ancient  name, 
is  situated  at  a  short  distance  from  the  picturesque  little  village  of 
Beddgelert,  and  near  a  beautiful  lake  called  Llyn  y  Dinas,  or  the 
Lake  of  the  Castle.  It  is  far  distant,  however,  from  the  source  of  the 
river  Conway,  wliich  rises  on  the  opposite  side  of  Snowdon.  On  its 
summit  are  the  remains  of  a  square  fort,  and  on  the  western  side,  facing 
Beddgelert,  there  are  traces  of  a  long  wall. 

3  The  Merlin  here  mentioned  was  called  Ambrosius,  and  according 
to  the  Cambrian  Biography  flourished  about  the  middle  of  the  fifth 
century.  He  was  a  celebrated  poet,  well  skilled  in  mathematics, 
and  is  reputed  to  have  been  the  architect  of  the  work  of  Emrys,  called 
by  the  Enghsh  Stonehenge,  on  Salisbury  Plain.  There  is  a  sin- 
gular account  of  his  construction  of  a  house  of  glass,  in  which  he 
went  to  sea,  accompanied  by  the  nine  Cylveirdd  bards,  of  whom  nothing 
was  heard  afterwards  ;  wlience  the  circumstances  were  ranked  with  the 
departure  of  Gavran  and  of  Madog,  under  the  appellation  of  the  three 
disappearances  from  the  isle  of  Britain.  This  Merddin  was  also  dis» 
tiuguished  as  one  of  the  three  principal  Ciiristiau  bards  of  the  isle 
of  Britain ;  the  other  two  were  Merddin  Wyllt  and  Taliesin.  Other 
auihcrs  say,  that  this  reputed  prophet  and  magician  was  the  son  of  a 
Welsh  nun,  daughter  of  a  king  of  Demetia,  and  born  at  Caermarthen, 
and  that  he  was  made  king  of  West  Wales  by  Vortigern,  who  then 
reigned  in  Britain. 


THE    EETEI   MOUNTAINS.  453 

the  sons  of  Owen  in  our  days,  after  his  death,  or  while  he 
was  dying,  who,  from  the  wicked  desire  of  reigning,  totally 
disregarded  the  ties  of  fraternity ;  but  I  shall  not  omit  men- 
tioning another  event  which  occurred  likewise  in  our  days. 
Owen,'  son  of  Gruffyth,  prince  of  North  Wales,  had  many 
sons,  but  only  one  legitimate,  namely,  Jorwerth  Trwyndwn,' 
which  in  Welsli  means  flat-nosed,  who  had  a  son  named 
Lhewelyn.  This  young  man,  being  only  twelve  years  of 
age,  began,  during  the  period  of  our  journey,  to  molest  his 
uncles  l)avid  and  Eoderic,  the  sons  of  Owen  by  Christiana, 
his  cousin- german;  and  although  they  had  divided  amongst 
themselves  all  North  Wales,  except  the  land  of  Conan, 
and  although  David,  having  married  the  sister  of  king 
Henry  II.,  by  whom  he  had  one  son,  was  powerfully  sup- 
ported by  the  English,  yet  within  a  few  years  the  legitimate 
son,  destitute  of  lands  or  money  (by  the  aid  of  divine  ven- 
geance), bravely  expelled  from  North  Wales  those  who  were 
born  in  public  incest,  though  supported  by  their  own  wealth 
and  by  that  of  others,  leaving  them  nothing  but  what  the 
liberality  of  his  own  mind  and  the  counsel  of  good  men  from 
pity  suggested  :  a  proof  that  adulterous  and  incestuous  per- 
sons are  displeasing  to  God. 

CHAPTEE  IX. 

OF    THE    MOUNTAINS    OP   EETET. 

I  MUST  not  pass  over  in  silence  the  mountains  called  by  the 
Welsh  Eryri,^  but  by  the  English  Snowdon,  or  Mountains 

1  Owen  Gwynedh  "  left  behind  him  manie  children  gotten  by  diverse 
■women,  which,  were  not  esteemed  by  their  mothers  and  birth,  but  by 
their  prowes  and  valiantnesse."  By  his  first  wife,  Gladus,  the  daughter 
of  Llywarch  ap  Trahaern  np  Caradoc,  he  had  Jorwerth  Drwyndwn,  that 
is,  Edward  with  the  broken  nose ;  for  which  defect  he  was  deemed  unfit 
to  preside  over  the  principality  ri  North  Wales  and  was  deprived  oi 
his  rightfiil  inheritance,  whi^^  -"-m  seized  by  his  brother  David,  who 
occupied  it  for  the  spree  of  t>-  •■_ity-four  years. 

'  Jorwerth  Trwyndwn. — Lir.  fennaut  supposes  that  this  unfortunate 
prince  was  buried  in  the  ch\ir.>hyard  of  Pennant  MelangeU,  «^hither,  as 
to  a  sanctuary,  he  had  fled  from  the  persecutiona  of  his  brother  David ; 
and  he  gives  to  him  a  rudely-sculptured  effigy  of  a  warrior  beariug  a 
shield,  on  which  was  this  inscription  : — "  Hic  lACST  etwaet." 

3  The  mountains  of  Eryri,  now  better  known  by  the  name  of  Snow- 
don, form  a  very  prominent  feature  in  the  natural  history  and  topo- 


454  THE    ITrN-ERAET    THROUGH   WALES. 

of  Soow,  which  gradually  increasing  from  the  land  of  the 
sons  of  Conan,  and  extending  themselves  northwards  near 
Deganwy,  seem  to  rear  their  lofty  summits  even  to  the 
clouds,  when  viewed  from  the  opposite  coast  of  Anglesey. 
They  are  said  to  be  of  so  great  an  extent,  that  according  to 
an  ancient  proverb,  "  As  Mona  could  supply  corn  for  all 
the  inhabitants  of  Wale?^,  so  could  the  Eryri  mountains 
afford  sufficient  pasture  for  all  the  herds,  if  collected  toge- 
ther." Hence  these  lines  of  Virgil  may  be  applied  to 
them : — 

"  Et  quantum  lougis  carpent  annenta  diebus, 

Exigua  tantum  gelidus  ros  nocte  reponet." 
"  And  what  is  cropt  by  day  the  night  renews, 

Shedding  refreshful  stores  of  cooling  dews." 

On  the  highest  parts  of  these  mountains  are  two  lakes  wor- 
thy of  admiration.^  The  one  has  a  floating  island  in  it,  which 
is  often  driven  from  one  side  to  the  other  by  the  force  of  the 
winds ;  and  the  shepherds  behold  with  astonishment  their 
cattle,  whilst  feeding,  carried  to  the  distant  parts  of  the 
lake.  A  part  of  the  bank  naturally  bound  together  by  the 
roots  of  willows  and  other  shrubs  may  have  been  broken  off, 
and  increased  by  the  alluvion  of  the  earth  from  the  shore ; 
and  being  continually  agitated  by  the  winds,  which  in  so 

graphy  of  North  "Wales.  The  highest  summit  is  called  Y  Wyddfa,  or 
the  Conspicuous,  and  appears  in  no  situation  so  exalted  as  near  Capel 
Curig.  Though  confessedly  the  highest  mountain  in  Wales,  it  is  by 
no  means  the  most  picturesque  in  its  form  ;  for  Cadair  Idris,  Moelwyn, 
and  Arran  in  North  Wales,  and  the  Cadair  Arthur,  near  Brecknock,  in 
South  Wales,  present  a  far  bolder  outline. 

^  Our  author  mentions  two  lakes  on  the  high  parts  of  these  moun- 
tains, the  first  of  which,  he  says,  has  a  floating  island  in  it.  On  the 
left  of  the  great  road,  leading  from  Beddgelert  to  Caernarvon,  and 
before  you  come  to  the  beautiful  lake  Cywellyn,  there  is  a  small 
pool,  bearing  the  name  of  Llyn  y  Dywarchen,  or  the  lake  of  the  Sod, 
and  which,  at  the  time  I  saw  it.  exhibited  the  same  peculiarity  men- 
tioned, and  rationally  accounted  for,  by  Oiraldus  ;  but  its  situation  so 
little  accords  with  the  one  here  described,  that  I  am  inclined  to  think 
this  is  not  the  lake  alluded  to  in  tl\e  text,  more  particularly  as  I  have 
been  informed  by  some  of  the  natives  of  these  parts,  that  there  is 
another  lake  bearing  the  same  name  on  the  heights  between  Beddgelert 
and  Festiniog.  Mr.  Pennant  (but  I  know  not  from  what  authority) 
fixes  the  other  lake  at  Llyn  y  Cwn,  or  the  Dog's  Pool,  which,  according 
to  Mr.  Williams,  author  of  Observations  on  the  Snowdon  mountains, 
1802,  is  the  highest  lake  amongst  these  mountains. 


THE    CASTLE    OF    EllVDDLAIf.  455 

elevated  a  situation  blow  with  great  violence,  it  cannot 
reunite  itself  firmly  witli  the  banks.  The  other  lake  is 
noted  for  a  wonderful  and  singular  miracle.  It  contains 
three  sorts  offish — eels,  trout,  and  perch,  all  of  which  have 
only  one  eye,  the  left  being  wanting;  but  if  the  curious 
reader  should  demand  of  me  the  explanation  of  so  extraor- 
dinary a  circumstance,  I  cannot  presume  to  satisfy  him. 
Jt  is  remarkable  also,  that  in  two  places  in  Scotland,  one 
near  the  eastern,  the  other  near  the  western  sea,  the  fish 
called  mullets  possess  the  same  defect,  liaving  no  left  eye. 
According  to  vulgar  tradition,  these  mountains  are  fre- 
quented by  an  eagle  who,  perching  on  a  fatal  stone  every 
fifth  holiday,  in  order  to  satiate  her  hunger  with  the  car- 
cases of  the  slain,  is  said  to  expect  war  on  that  same  day, 
and  to  have  almost  perforated  the  stone  by  cleaning  and 
sharpening  her  beak. 

CHAPTER  X. 

OF    THE    PASSAGE     BY    DEGANWY    AND     EUTHLAK,    AND     THE 
SEE    or    LANELWY,    AND    OP    COLESHULLE. 

Haying  crossed  the  river  Conwy,^  or  rather  an  arm  of  the 
sea,  under  Deganwy,  leaving  the  Cistercian  monastery  of 
Conwy-  on  the  western  bank  of  the  river  to  our  right  baud, 
we  arrived  at  Euthlan,^  a  noble  castle  on  the  river  Cloyd, 

'  The  travellers  pursuing  their  journey  along  the  sea  coast,  crossed 
the  sestuary  of  the  river  Conway  imder  Diganvry,  a  fortress  of  very  re- 
mote antiquity. 

2  At  this  period  the  Cistercian  monastery  of  Conway  was  in  its  in- 
fancy, for  its  foundation  has  been  attributed  to  Llewelyn  ap  Jorwerth, 
in  the  year  1185,  (only  three  years  previous  to  Baldwin's  visitation,) 
who  endowed  it  with  very  extensive  possessions  and  singular  privileges. 
Like  Stratflur,  this  abbey  was  the  repository  of  the  national  records,  and 
the  mausoleum  of  many  of  its  princes. 

3  The  castle  of  Rhuddlan  was  deemed  one  of  the  most  impor- 
tant fortresses  in  Wales ;  it  was  often  taken  and  retaken,  and  ex- 
perienced frequent  vicissitudes  of  fortune.  On  this  spot  a  signal  battle 
was  fought  in  795,  between  the  Saxons  and  Welsh,  in  which  Caradoc 
king  of  North  Wales  was  slain.  On  this  occasion  a  celebrated  plaintive 
air  was  composed,  called  Morva  Rhuddlan,  or  the  Red  Marsh,  which  is 
still  played  with  enthusiasm  by  the  national  harpers.  Camden  supposes 
tliat  the  first  fort  was  built  by  Llewelyn  ap  Sitsylt.  who  reigned  from 
the  year  1015  to  1020,  and  that  a  high  mound,  still  existing,  at  some  dis- 
tance from  the  present  castle,  formed  a  part  of  it.     It  was  a  residence 


456  THE    ITINEEAET    THEOFGH    WALES. 

belonging  to  David,  the  eldest  son  of  Owen,  where,  at  the 
earnest  invitation  of  David  himself,  we  were  handsomely 
entertained  that  night. 

There  is  a  spring  not  far  from  Eutlilan,  in  the  province  of 
Tegengel,^  which  not  only  regularly  ebbs  and  flows  like  the 
sea.  twice  in  twenty-four  hours,  but  at  other  times  fre- 
quently rises  and  falls  both  by  night  and  day.  Trogus  Pom- 
})eius  says,  "  that  there  is  a  town  of  the  Graramantes,  where 
there  is  a  spring  which  is  hot  and  cold  alternately  by  day 
and  night. "^ 

of  the  Welsh  princes  from  that  time,  but  Gruffydh  ap  Llewelyn  in 
1063,  having  given  oifence  to  Edward  the  Confessor,  by  receiving  Algar, 
one  of  his  rebelUous  subjects,  was  attacked  by  Harold,  who,  in  revenge, 
burned  the  palace  at  Riiuddlan.  Robert  de  Rhuddlan,  a  vaUant  Nor- 
man, nephew  to  Hugh  Lupus,  conquered  it  from  the  Welsh,  and,  by 
the  command  of  VViiham  the  Conqueror,  fortified  it  with  new  works, 
and  made  it  his  place  of  residence.  King  Henry  IL,  after  his  defeat  at 
Coed  Eulo,  in  Flintshire,  A.D.  1157,  retired  to  Rhuddlan,  fortified  the 
castle,  and  gave  the  government  of  it  to  Hugh  de  Bello-campo,  or 
Beauchamp.  "  In  1167,  Owen  Gwyneth,  prnice  of  North  Wales, 
Cadwalader,  his  brother,  and  Rees,  prince  of  South  Wales,  laid  siege  to 
the  castell  of  Ruthlan,  which  the  king  had  latehe  built  and  fortified,  and 
captured  and  destroyed  it."  The  crusaders  were  received  at  Rhuddlan 
by  David  ap  Owen,  who  (as  I  have  before  related)  had  forcibly  seized 
the  lawful  inheritance  of  his  brother-in-law,  Jorwerth  Drwyndwn. 

'  This  ebbing  spring  in  the  province  of  Tegengel,  or  Flintshire,  has 
been  placed  by  the  old  annotator  on  Giraldus  at  Kilken,which  Humphrey 
Llwyd,  in  his  Breviary,  also  thus  mentions  : — "  In  'J'egenia  is  a  well  of 
a  marvellous  nature,  which,  being  six  miles  from  the  sea,  in  the  parish 
of  Kilken,  ebbeth  and  floweth  twice  in  one  day.  Yet  have  I  marked 
this  of  late,  when  the  moon  ascendeth  from  the  east  horizon  to  the 
south  (at  what  time  all  seas  do  flow),  that  then  the  water  of  this  well 
diminisheth  and  ebbeth."  Pennant,  as  well  as  Camden,  take  notice  of 
this  same  spring,  under  the  title  of  Ffynnon  Leinw,  or  the  flowing  well, 
and  say  that  its  ebbing  quahty  had  ceased.  I  must  dissent  from  Dr. 
Powel,  in  fixing  the  spring  here  mentioned  at  Kilken,  a  parish  near 
Mold,  and  many  miles  distant  from  Rhuddlan,  and  coincide  with  the 
opinion  of  the  learned  Camden,  who  says  that  Giraldus  alluded,  with 
more  probability,  to  a  spring  called  Ffynnon  Assav,  to  which  the  same 
phenomenon  is  attributed.  Browne  Wilhs  also  mentions  a  place  called 
Capell  Ffynnon  Vair,  or  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary's  Well,  which  stands 
in  the  township  of  Wickwar,  about  two  miles  S.W.  of  St.  Asaph,  which 
in  former  days  was  held  in  great  sanctity,  and  much  resorted  to.  It 
was  so  denominated  from  a  large  spring  or  well,  which  lies  near  the 
west  door,  and  is  handsomely  walled  about  with  freestone,  and  thd 
water  runs  under  the  chapel  from  west  to  east. 

*  See  before,  the  Topography  of  Ireland,  Distinc  ii.  c.  7. 


CELL    OF  BASINWERK.  457 

Many  persons  in  the  morning  having  been  persuaded  to 
dedicate  themselves  to  the  servi<ie  of  Christ,  we  proceeded 
from  Euthlan  to  the  small  cathedral  church  of  Lanelwy  ;* 
from  whence  (the  archbishop  having  celebrated  mass)  we 
continued  our  journey  through  a  country  rich  in  minerals 
of  silver,  where  money  is  sought  in  the  bowels  of  the 
earth,  to  the  little  cell  of  Basinwerk,^  where  we  passed 
the  night.  The  following  day  we  traversed  a  long  quick- 
sand, and  not  without  some  degree  of  apprehension,  leaving 
the  woody  district  of  Coleshulle,^  or  hill  of  coal,  on  our 
right  hand,  where  Henry  II.,  who  in  our  time,  actuated  by 
youthful  and  indiscreet  ardour,  made  a  hostile  irruption 

'  Saint  Asaph,  in  size,  though  not  in  revenues,  may  deserve  the 
epithet  of  "paupercula"  attached  to  it  by  Griraldus,  From  its  situ- 
ation near  the  banks  of  the  river  Elwy,  it  derived  the  name  of  Llanelwy, 
or  the  church  upon  the  Elwy.  Its  foundation  is  attributed  to  Kenti- 
gern  (called  in  the  Scottish  histories  St.  Mungo),  who,  being  driven 
from  his  episcopal  see  at  Glasgow,  about  the  year  543,  is  reported  to 
have  fled  to  St.  David,  at  Menevia,  where  residing  for  some  time,  ('ath- 
wallain,  prince  of  Wales,  assigned  him  a  place  for  a  monastery,  near 
the  river  Elwy,  where  he  fixed  an  episcopal  see,  over  which  he  presided 
till  the  year  560,  when,  being  recalled  to  his  native  country  of  Scotland, 
he  resigned  the  bishopric  to  one  of  his  disciples,  named  Asaph.  St. 
Asaph,  a  disciple  of  Kentigern,  from  whom  the  episcopal  see  lias  de- 
rived its  name,  succeeded  to  the  bishopric,  and  died  a.d.  596.  Reyner, 
consecrated  a.d.  1186,  by  archbishop  Baldwin,  assisted  him  in  pro- 
moting the  holy  cause  of  the  crusades. 

-  Leaving  Llanelwy,  or  St.  Asaph,  the  archbishop  proceeded  to 
the  little  cell  of  Basinwerk,  where  he  and  his  attendants  passed 
the  night.  The  original  foundation  of  this  monastery  has  been 
much  disputed  by  old  writers ;  and  there  has  been  a  difference  of 
opinion  respecting  the  order  of  monks  who  inhabited  it.  Tanner  says 
that  Ranulph  earl  of  Chester  began  a  monastery  about  the  year  1131, 
which  was  probably  much  improved,  and  made  an  abbey  of  Cistercian 
monks,  by  king  Henry  II.,  about  the  year  1159.  Dugdale  places  it 
amongst  the  Cistercian  abbeys.  Considerable  remains  of  a  monastic 
building  are  now  standing.  The  architecture,  a  mixture  of  Norman  and 
early  English,  is  neither  remarkable  for  its  elegance  or  good  execution. 
It  is  situated  at  a  short  distance  from  Holywell,  on  a  gentle  eminence 
above  a  valley,  watered  by  the  copious  springs  that  issue  from  St.  Wine- 
fred's  well,  and  on  the  borders  of  a  marsh,  which  extends  towards  the 
coast  of  Cheshire. 

3  Coleshill  is  a  township  in  Holywell  parish,  Flintsliire,  which  givet 
name  to  a  himdred,  and  was  so  called  from  its  abundance  of  fossil  fuel. 
Fenuaut,  vol.  i.  p.  42. 


458  TT3E    ITINERAEY    THEOTJGH    WALES. 

into  Wales,  and  presuming  to  pass  through  that  narrow  tnd 
woody  defile,  experienced  a  signal  defeat,  and  a  very  heavy 
loss  of  men.^  The  aforesaid  king  invaded  Wales  three  times 
with  an  army ;  first,  JSi  orth  Wales  at  the  above-mentioned 
place ;  secondly,  South  Wales,  by  the  sea-coast  of  Gla- 
morgan and  G-oer,  penetrating  as  far  as  Caermardhin  and 
Pencadair,  and  returning  by  EUennith  and  Melenith  ;  and 

'  The  three  mUitary  expeditions  of  king  Henry  into  Wales,  here 
mentioned,  were  a.d.  1157,  the  first  expedition  into  North  Wales ; 
A.D.  1162,  the  second  expedition  into  South  Wales;  A.D.  1165,  the 
third  expedition  into  North  Wales.  In  the  first,  the  king  was  obliged 
to  retreat  with  considerable  loss,  and  the  king's  standard-bearer,  Henry 
de  Essex,  was  accused  of  having  in  a  cowardly  manner  abandoned  the 
royal  standard  and  led  to  a  serious  disaster.  The  following  account  of 
this  disaster  is  given  in  the  Welsh  Chronicle,  by  Powell.  "About  this 
time  the  king  gathered  all  his  power  togither  from  all  parts  of  England, 
intending  to  subdue  all  North  Wales,  being  thereunto  procured  and 
mooved  by  Cadwalader,  whom  the  prince,  his  brother  (Owen  Gwynedh), 
had  banished  out  of  the  land,  and  bereaved  of  his  living,  and  by  Madoc 
ap  Meredyth,  prince  of  Powys,  who  envied  at  the  Hbertie  of  North 
Wales,  which  knewe  no  lord  but  one.  And  so  the  king  led  his  armie 
to  West  Chester,  and  encamped  upon  the  marsh  called  Saltney.  Like- 
wise Owen,  like  a  valiant  prince,  gathered  all  his  strengtli,  and  came  to 
the  utter  meares  of  his  land,  purposing  to  give  the  king  battell,  and  en- 
camped himselfe  at  Basingwerk  ;  which  thing,  when  the  king  under- 
stood, he  chose  out  of  his  armie  diverse  of  the  cheefest  bands,  and  sent 
certeine  earles  and  lords  with  them  towards  the  princes  camp,  and  a-< 
they  passed  the  wood  called  Coed  Eulo,  David  and  Conan,  the  prince's 
eons,  met  with  them,  and  set  upon  them  fearslie,  and  what  for  the  ad- 
vantage of  the  ground,  and  for  the  suddenness  of  the  deed,  the  English- 
men were  put  to  flight,  and  a  great  number  slaine,  and  the  rest  were 
pursued  to  the  king's  campe.  The  king  being  sore  displeased  with  tliat 
foile,  remooved  his  campe  along  the  sea  coast,  thinking  to  passe  betwixt 
Owen  and  his  countrie  ;  but  Owen  foreseeing  that,  retired  backe  to  a 
place  which  is  called  at  this  dale  Cil  Owen,  (tliat  is,  the  retire  of  Owen), 
and  the  king  came  to  Ruthlan.  After  that,  Owen  incaraped  and  in- 
trenched himself  at  Bryn  y  pin,  and  skirmished  with  the  king's  men 
dailie,  and  in  the  meanwhile  that  the  king  was  fortifyeing  the  castell  of 
Ruthlan,  his  navie,  which  was  guided  by  Madoc  ap  Meredyth,  prince  of 
Powys,  anchored  in  Anglesey,  and  put  on  land  the  souldiours  which 
spoiled  two  churches,  and  a  little  of  the  countrie  thereabouts.  But  as 
they  returned  vmto  their  ships,  all  the  strength  of  the  ile  set  upon  them 
and  killed  them  all,  so  that  none  of  those  which  robbed  within  the  ile 
brought  tidings  how  they  sped.  Then  the  shipmen  seeing  that,  liked 
hot  their  lodging  there,  but  waidup  anchors  and  went  awaie  to  Chester. 
In  the  meanetime,  there  was  a  peace  concluded  betwixt  the  king  and 
the  prince,  upon  condition,  tliat  Cadwalader  should  have  his  lands 
againe,  and  his  brother  should  be  his  frieud." 


THJE    uxVEE   DEE — CHESTER.  459 

thirdly,  fclie  country  of  Powys,  near  Oswaldestree  ;  but  in  all 
these  expeditions  the  king  was  unsuccessful,  because  be 
placed  no  confidence  in  the  prudent  and  well-informed 
chieftains  of  the  country,  but  was  principally  advised  by 
people  remote  from  the  marches,  and  ignorant  of  the  manners 
and  customs  of  the  natives.  In  every  expedition,  as  the  arti- 
ficer is  to  be  trusted  in  his  trade,  so  the  advice  of  those 
people  should  be  consulted,  who,  by  a  long  residence  in  the 
country,  are  become  conversant  with  the  manners  and  cus- 
toms of  the  natives  ;  and  to  whom  it  is  of  high  importance 
that  the  power  of  the  hostile  nation,  with  whom,  by  a  long 
and  continued  warfare,  they  have  contracted  an  implacable 
enmity  and  hatred,  should  be  weakened  or  destroyed,  as 
we  have  set  forth  in  our  Yaticinal  History. 

In  this  wood  of  Coleshulle,  a  young  Welshman  was  killed 
while  passing  through  the  king's  army  ;  the  greyhound  who 
accompanied  him  did  not  desert  his  master's  corpse  for 
eight  days,  though  without  food ;  but  faithfully  defended  it 
from  the  attacks  of  dogs,  wolves,  and  birds  of  prey,  with  a 
wonderful  attachment.  What  son  to  his  father,  what 
JSTisus  to  Euryalus,  what  Polynices  to  Tydeus,  what  Ores- 
tes to  Pylades,  would  have  shewn  such  an  affectionate  re- 
gard ?  As  a  mark  of  favour  to  the  dog,  who  was  almost 
starved  to  death,  the  English,  although  bitter  enemies  to  the 
Welsh,  ordered  the  body,  now  nearly  putrid,  to  be  deposited 
in  the  ground  with  the  accustomed  offices  of  humanity. 

CHAPTER  XI. 

OF  THE  PASSAGE  OF  THE  ETYEE  DEE,  AKJ)   OF  CHESTEE. 

HAViiii"G  crossed  the  river  Dee  below  Chester,^  (which  the 
Welsh   call   Doverdwy),  on   the  third  day  before  Easter, 

'  Chester.  This  city  bore,  in  "Welsh,  the  name  of  Caerleon  ar  Ddy- 
frdwy,  that  is,  the  city  of  legions  on  the  river  Dee,  and  of  Caerleon  Gawr, 
or  Yawr,  which  has  by  some  been  interpreted  thecity  of  the  great  legion, 
and  by  others  the  city  of  Lleon  the  Q-reat,  who  was  son  of  Brut  Darian 
Las,  tbe  eighth  king  of  Britain  ;  but  as  we  know,  for  a  certainty,  that  it 
was  the  principal  station  of  the  twentieth  legion,  or  the  XEGIO  VICESIMIA 
TALENS  viCTRix,  we  may  reasonably  give  it  the  former  derivation.  In 
its  construction  and  situation  it  is  as  unhke  any  city  in  England,  as 
Venice  is  unlike  any  one  in  Italy.  I  must  refer  those  who  wish  to  be 
better  acquainted  with  its  liistor-y  and  antiquitiea  to  Mr.  Pennant,  who, 


460  THE    ITINEEART    THROUGH    WALES. 

or  the  day  of  absolution,  (holy  Thursday)  we  reached  Chester. 
As  the  river  Wye  towards  the  south  separates  Wales  from 
England,  so  the  Dee  near  Chester  forms  the  northern  boun- 
dary. The  inhabitants  of  these  parts  assert,  that  the  waters  of 
this  river  change  their  fords  every  month,  and,  as  it  inclines 
more  towards  England  or  Wales,  they  can,  with  certainty, 
prognosticate  which  nation  will  be  successful  or  unfortunate 
during  the  year.  This  river  derives  its  origin  from  the 
lake  Penmelesmere,^  and,  although  it  abounds  with  salmon, 
yet  none  are  found  in  the  lake.     It  is  also  remarkable,  that 

in  the  first  volume  of  his  Tour  through  Wales,  has  given  a  very  parti» 
ticular  account  of  it. 

^  The  lake  of  Penmelesmere  is,  in  modem  days,  better  known  by  the 
name  of  Bala  Pool.  The  river  Dee  rises  in  a  valley  leading  from  Bala 
to  Dolgelley,  and  receives  several  contributory  streams  before  it  enters 
the  lake,  which  bears  various  names,  viz.,  Llyn  Tegid,  or  the  lake  of 
fair  aspect ;  Penmelesmere,  or  Pimble  Mere,  both  of  which  names  are  a 
corruption  from  Pymplwy  meer,  or  the  meer  of  the  five  parishes  adjoin- 
ing the  lake,  Llandervel,  Llanvawr,  Llanyckill,  Llanwchllyr,  and  Llan- 
gower.  The  assertion  made  by  Griraldus,  of  salmon  never  being  found 
in  the  lake  of  Bala,  is  not  founded  on  truth  ;  for  these  fish  pass  up  the 
river  Dee  from  its  sestuary  at  Chester,  and  even  through  the  lake  to 
the  rivers  above  it,  in  order  to  deposit  their  spawn  ;  being  contrary  to 
the  nature  of  this  restless  fish  to  remain  in  still  water,  they,  of  course, 
are  never  caught  in  the  pool ;  but  that  they  are  temporary  inhabitants 
of  it  is  very  certain,  for  they  are  frequently  seen  and  speared  on  their 
passage  up  the  rivers  at  the  head  of  the  lake.  The  gwyniad,  a  white 
and  insipid  fish,  seems  peculiar  to  this  lake ;  they  herd  together  like 
herrings,  and  are  never  caught  but  with  a  net.  The  lake,  as  well  as  the 
river,  abounded  formerly  with  pike,  which  grew  to  a  very  great  size ; 
when  a  sudden  and  violent  flood  in  the  year  1781  so  disturbed  the 
waters  of  the  lake,  that  these  fish  disappeared,  and  not  one  of  that  spe 
cies  has  ever  since  been  taken  either  in  the  pool,  or  in  the  adjoining 
rivers.  The  fish  of  this  lake  are  now  confined  to  trout,  perch,  gwy- 
niad, and  eels.  The  lake  of  Bala  extends  about  four  miles  in  length, 
from  S.W.  to  N.E.,  and  is  not  quite  a  mile  in  breadth.  At  the  bottom 
stands  the  market  town  of  Bala,  consisting  chiefly  of  one  long  and  wide 
street,  at  the  end  of  which  is  a  large  tumulus  called  Tommen  y  Bala. 
Near  the  exit  of  the  river  Dee,  from  the  pool  adjoining  the  bridge,  there 
are  vestiges  of  another  raised  earthen  work,  wliich  seems  to  have  been 
intersected  by  the  road.  Here  the  Roman  road,  leading  from  the  sta- 
tion of  Mediolanum  in  Montgomeryshire,  to  that  of  Heriri  Mons,  or 
Tommen  y  Mur,  in  Merionethshire,  traversed  the  valley,  and  continued 
its  course  either  through  or  very  near  the  present  town  of  Bala,  to  the 
Miltirr  Gerrig,  or  stone  mQe,  and  from  thence  through  Bwlch-y-buarth 
to  Tommen  y  Mur.  At  the  top  of  the  lake,  the  very  conspicuous  Bo- 
man  station  at  Caer  Gai.  abounding  witli  brick  and  tile,  seems  to  indi- 


LEGEND  OF  KING  HAROLD.  4GI 

this  river  is  never  swollen  bj  rains,  but  often  rises  by  the 
violence  of  the  winds. 

Chester  boasts  of  being  the  burial-place  of  Henry ,^  a  Ro- 
man emperor,  who,  after  having  imprisoned  his  carnal  and 
spiritual  father,  pope  Paschal,  gave  himself  up  to  penitence; 
and,  becoming  a  voluntary  exile  in  this  country,  ended  his 
days  in  solitary  retirement.  It  is  also  asserted,  that  the 
remains  of  Harold  are  here  deposited.  He  was  the  last  of 
the  iSaxon  kings  in  England,  and  as  a  punishment  for  his 
perjury,  was  defeated  in  the  battle  of  Hastings,  fought 
against  the  Xormans.  Having  received  many  wounds,  and 
lost  his  left  eye  by  an  arrow  in  that  engagement,  he  is  said 
to  have  escaped  to  these  parts,  where,  in  holy  conversation, 
leading  the  life  of  an  anchorite,  and  being  a  constant  at- 
tendant at  one  of  the  churches  of  this  city,  he  is  believed 
to  have  terminated  his  days  happily.^  The  truth  of  these 
two  circumstances  was  declared  (and  not  before  known)  by 
the  dying  confession  of  each  party.  We  saw  here,  what 
appeared  novel  to  us,  cheese  made  of  deer's  milk  ;  for  the 
countess  and  her  mother  keeping  tame  deer,  presented  to 
the  archbishop  three  small  cheeses  made  from  their  milk. 

In  this  same  country  was  produced,  in  our  time,  a  cow 
j)artakiug  of  the  nature  of  a  stag,  resembling  its  mother  in 
the  fore  parts  and  the  stag  in  its  hips,  legs,  and  feet,  and 
having  the  skin  and  colour  of  the  stag ;  but,  partaking  more 
of  the  nature  of  the  domestic  than  of  the  wild  animal,  it 
remained  with  the  herd  of  cattle.  A  bitch  also  was  preg- 
nant by  a  monkey,  and  produced  a  litter  of  whelps  resem- 
bling a  monkey  before,  and  the  dog  behind  ;  which  the 
rustic  keeper  of  the  military  hall  seeing  with  astonishment 
and  abhorrence,  immediately  killed  with  the  stick  he  car- 
ried in  his  hand ;  thereby  incurring  the  severe  resentment 

cate  the  course  of  a  Roman  road  near  it,  which,  in  that  case,  must  have 
3ome  from  Dolgelley,  and  passed  through  Bala. 

^  Giraldus  seems  to  have  been  mistaken  respecting  the  burial-place 
of  the  emperor  Henry  Y.,  for  he  died  May  23,  a.d.  1125,  at  Utrecht, 
and  his  body  was  conveyed  to  Spire  for  interment. 

2  This  legend,  which  represents  king  Harold  as  having  escaped  from 
the  battle  of  Hastings,  and  as  having  lived  ye^irs  after  as  a  hermit  on  the 
borders  of  Wales,  is  mentioned  by  other  old  writers,  and  has  been 
adopted  as  true  by  some  modern  writers. 


462  THE  iti:n^eeart  TiiROTiaH  wales. 

and  anger  of  his  lord,  when  the  latter  became  acquainted 
"with  the  circumstaiice. 

In  our  time,  also,  a  woman  was  born  in  Chester  without 
hands,  to  whom  nature  had  supplied  a  remedy  for  that  de- 
fect by  the  flexibility  and  delicacy  of  the  joints  of  her  feet, 
with  which  she  could  sew,  or  perform  any  work  with  thread 
or  scissors,  as  well  as  other  women. 

CHAPTEE  XII. 

OF    THE    JOUEFET    BY    THE    WHITE    MONASTEET,    OSWAL- 
DESTEEE,    POWTS,    AISTD    SHEEWSBXIET. 

The  feast  of  Easter  having  been  observed  with  due  solem- 
nity, and  many  persons,  by  the  exhortations  of  the  arch- 
bishop, signed  with  the  cross,  we  directed  our  way  from 
Chester  to  the  White  Monastery,'  and  from  thence  towards 

^  Some  difficulty  occurs  in  fixing  the  situation  of  the  Album  Monaa- 
terium,  mentioned  in  the  text,  as  three  churclies  in  the  county  of  Shrop- 
shire bore  that  appellation  ;  the  first  at  Whitchurch,  the  second  at 
Oswestry,  the  third  at  Alberbury.  In  order  to  ascertain  the  true  posi- 
tion of  this  monastery,  we  must  examine  the  passage  in  the  text.  "  Hie 
itaque  festo  debita  solemnitate  completo,  versus  Album  Monasterium 
iter  aggressi  sumus,  et  inde  versus  Oswaldestree,  ubi  tanquam  in  ipsa 
region  is  Powisiensis  ora,  occurrerunt  nobis  Powisise  principes."  From 
this  sentence  every  reader  will  naturally  conclude,  that  the  White  Mo- 
nastery was  situated  between  Chester  and  Oswestry,  and  so  is  Whit- 
church ;  at  which  place  I  am  inclined  to  place  it,  contrary  to  the  opinion 
of  Mr.  Pennant,  who  fixes  it  at  Oswestry,  saying — "  Some  writers  enter- 
tain doubts  whether  this  place  was  the  Album  Monasterium  visited  by  Gi- 
raldus,  and  endeavour  to  fix  it  at  Whitchurch;  but  those  may  easily  be 
removed,  when  it  is  certain  that  it  was  in  Powys-land ;  a  pretension 
that  the  other  lias  no  claim  to."  Mr.  Pennant  seems  to  have  mistaken 
the  word  ubi,  where  ;  which  evidently  applies  to  Oswestiy,  and  not  to 
the  Wliite  Monastery ;  for  at  that  period  Oswestry  was  situated  near 
the  eastern  borders  of  Powys  land.  Before  king  Ofia's  time,  the  prin- 
cipality of  Powys  reached  eastward  to  the  rivers  Dee  and  Severn,  in  a 
right  hne  from  the  end  of  Broxen  Hills  to  Salop,  and  comprehended 
all  the  country  between  the  Wye  and  Severn  ;  but  after  the  making  of 
Offa's  Dyke,  its  limits  were  somewhat  contracted,  and  extended  in 
length  from  Pulford  Bridge  north-east,  to  the  confines  of  Cardiganshire, 
in  the  parish  of  Lhanguric,  in  the  south-west ;  and  in  breadtli,  from 
the  furthest  part  of  Cyfeilioc  westward,  to  EUesmere  on  the  east  side. 
The  narrative  of  our  author  is  so  simple,  and  corresponds  so  well  with 
the  topography  of  the  country  through  which  they  passed,  that  I  think 
no  doubt  ough*  to  be  entertained  about  the  course  of  their  route.  From 


NOTICE    OF   WILLIAM    FITZ-ALAN.  4G3 

Oswaldestree ;  where,  on  the  verj  borders  of  Powys,  we 
were  met  by  GrruiFydh  son  of  Madoc,  and  Elissa,  princes  of 
that  country,  and  many  others  ;  some  few  of  whom  having 
been  persuaded  to  take  tho  cross  (for  several  of  the  multi- 
tude had  been  previously  signed  by  Reiner,^  the  bishop  of 
that  place),  Grruffydh,  ppjice  of  the  district,  publicly  ab- 
jured, in  the  presence  of  the  archbishop,  his  cousin-german, 
Angharad,  daughter  of  prince  Owen,  whom,  according  to 
the  vicious  custom  of  the  country,  he  had  long  considered 
as  his  wife.  We  slept  at  Oswaldestree,  or  the  tree  of  St. 
Oswald,  and  were  most  sumptuously  entertained  after  the 
English  manner,  by  William  Fitz-Alan,^  a  noble  and  liberal 
young  man.     A  short  time  before,  whilst  Eeiner  was  preach- 

Chester  they  directed  their  way  to  the  White  Monastery,  or  Whit- 
church, and  from  thence  towards  Oswesti-y,  where  they  slept,  and  were 
entertained  by  William  Fitz-Alan,  after  the  English  mode  of  hospitality. 

1  By  the  Latin  context  it  would  appear  that  Reiner  was  bishop  of 
Oswestree  ;  "  Ab  episcopo  namque  loci  illius  Reinerio  multitude  fuerat 
ante  signata."  Eeiner  succeeded  Adam  in  the  bishopric  of  St.  Asaph 
in  the  year  118B,  and  died  in  1220.  He  had  a  residence  near  Owestry, 
at  which  place,  previous  to  the  arrival  of  Baldwin,  he  had  signed  many 
of  the  people  with  the  cross. 

2  William  Fitz-Alan. — In  the  time  of  William  the  Conqueror,  Alan,  the 
son  of  riathald,  or  Flaald,  obtained,  by  the  gift  of  that  king,  the  castle 
of  Oswaldestre,  with  the  territory  adjoining,  which  belonged  to  Meredith 
ap  Blethyn,  a  Briton.  This  Alan,  having  married  the  daughter  and 
heir  to  Warine,  sheriiF  of  Shropshire,  had  in  her  right  the  barony  of 
the  same  Warine.  To  him  succeeded  William,  his  son  and  heir.  He 
founded  the  abbey  of  Haghmon,  in  Shropshire,  the  priory  of  Wom- 
brigge,  in  tiie  same  county,  and  made  great  benefactions  to  the  Knighta 
Templars,  and  the  monks  of  Shrewsbury,  Bildewas,  and  Cumbermere.  In 
the  reign  of  king  Stephen  he  favoured  the  cause  of  queen  Maude  againgt 
that  monarch,  and  bravely  defended  the  castle  of  Shrewsbury  (of  which 
he  was  at  that  time  governor),  until  it  was  taken  from  him  by  assault. 
He  also  attended  her  at  the  siege  of  Winchester,  and  still  faithfully  ad- 
hering to  her,  was  appointed  sheriff  of  the  county  of  Salop  on  the  acces- 
sion of  her  son  Henry  to  the  crown,  in  which  office  he  continued  until 
his  death.  He  married  Isabel  de  Say,  daughter  and  heir  to  Helias  de 
Say,  niece  to  Robert  earl  of  Gloucester,  lady  of  Clun,  and  left  issue  by 
her,  WiEiam,  his  son  and  successor,  who,  in  the  19th  Henry  II.,  or 
before,  departed  tliis  life,  leaving  William  Fitz  Alan  his  son  and  heir ; 
which  William,  in  the  year  1188,  gave  a  sumptuous  entertainment  at 
his  castle  of  Oswaldestre  to  Baldwin,  archbishop  of  Oanterbviry,  when 
that  prelate  made  his  progress  through  Wales.  He  died  in  the  16th  of 
John,  or  before. 


464  THE    ITINEEAET    THEOUGH    WALES. 

ing,  a  robust  youth  being  earnestly  exhorted  to  follo\^  the 
example  of  his  companions  in  taking  the  cross,  answered, 
"  I  will  not  follow  your  advice  until,  with  this  lance  which  I 
bear  mmy  hand,  I  shall  have  avenged  the  death  of  my  lord," 
alluding  to  Owen,  son  of  Madoc,  a  distinguished  warrior, 
who  had  been  maliciously  and  treacherously  slain  by  Owen 
Cyfeilioc,  his  cousin-german ;  and  while  he  was  thus 
venting  his  anger  and  revenge,  and  violently  brandishing  his 
lance,  it  suddenly  snapped  asunder,  and  fell  disjointed  in  se- 
veral pieces  to  the  ground,  the  handle  only  remaining  in  his 
hand.  Alarmed  and  astonished  at  this  omen,  which  he  con- 
sidered as  a  certain  signal  for  his  taking  the  cross,  he  volun- 
tarily offered  his  services. 

In  this  third  district  of  Wales,  called  Powys,  there  are 
most  excellent  studs  put  apart  for  breeding,  and  deriving 
their  origin  from  some  tine  Spanish  horses,  which  E/obert  de 
Belesme,'  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  brought  into  this  country  : 
on  which  account  the  horses  sent  from  hence  are  remarkable 
for  their  majestic  proportion  and  astonishing  fleetness. 

Here  king  Henry  11.  entered  Powys,  in  our  days,  upon 
an  expensive,  though  fruitless,  expedition.^  Having  dis- 
membered the  hostages  whom  he  had  previously  received, 
he  was  compelled,  by  a  sudden  and  violent  fall  of  rain,  to 
retreat  with  his  army.  On  the  preceding  day,  the  chiefs  of 
the  English  army  had  burned  some  of  the  Welsh  churches, 
with  the  villages  and  churchyards ;  upon  which  the  sons  of 
Owen  the  Grreat,  with  their  light-armed  troops,  stirred  up 
the  resentment  of  their  father  and  the  other  princes  of  the 
country,  declaring  that  they  would  never  in  future  8j)are 
any  churches  of  the  English.  When  nearly  the  whole  army 
was  on  the  point  of  assenting  to  this  determination,  Owen, 
a  man  of  distinguished  wisdom  and  moderation — the  tumult 
being  in  some  degree  subsided — thus  spake  :  "  My  opinion, 
indeed,  by  no  means  agrees  with  yours,  for  we  ought  to 
rejoice  at  this  conduct  of  our  adversary ;  for,  unless  sup- 

^  Eobert  de  Belesme,  earl  of  Shrewsbury,  was  son  of  Roger  de 
Montgomery,  who  led  the  centre  division  of  the  army  in  that  memor- 
able battle  which  secured  to  William  the  conquest  of  England,  and  for 
his  services  was  advanced  to  the  earldoms  of  Arundel  and  Shrewsbury, 

2  This  expedition  into  Wales  took  place  a.d.  11G5,  and  has  been 
tlreadj  spoken  of. 


EXCOMMUNICATION   OP   OWEN   DE   CTFiILTOC.         4G5 

ported  by  divine  assistance,  we  are  far  inferior  to  tlie 
English ;  and  they,  by  their  behaviour,  have  made  Grod 
their  enemy,  who  is  able  most  powerfully  to  avenge  both 
himself  and  us.  We  therefore  most  devoutly  promise  God 
that  we  will  henceforth  pay  greater  reverence  than  ever  to 
churches  and  holy  places."  After  which,  the  English  army, 
on  the  following  night,  experienced  (as  has  before  been  re- 
lated) the  divine  vengeance. 

EromOswaldestree,  we  directed  our  course  towards  Shrews- 
bury (^Salopesburia),  which  is  nearly  surrounded  by  the  river 
Severn,  where  we  remained  a  few  days  to  rest  and  refresh 
ourselves ;  and  where  many  people  were  induced  to  take  the 
cross,  through  the  elegant  sermons  of  the  archbishop  and 
archdeacon.  We  also  excommunicated  Owen  de  Cevelioc, 
because  he  alone,  amongst  the  Welsh  princes,  did  not  come 
to  meet  the  archbishop  with  his  people.  Owen  was  a  man 
of  more  fluent  speech  than  his  contemporary  princes,  and 
was  conspicuous  for  the  good  management  of  his  territory. 
Having  generally  favoured  the  royal  cause,  and  opposed  the 
measures  of  his  own  chieftains,  he  had  contracted  a  great 
familiarity  with  king  Henry  II.  Being  with  the  king  at 
table  at  Shrewsbury,  Henry,  as  a  mark  of  peculiar  honour 
and  regard,  sent  him  one  of  his  own  loaves  ;  he  immediately 
brake  it  into  small  pieces,  like  alms-bread,  and  having,  like 
an  almoner,  placed  them  at  a  distance  from  him,  he  took 
them  up  one  by  one  and  ate  them.  The  king  requiring  an 
explanation  of  this  proceeding,  Owen,  with  a  smile,  replied, 
'*  I  thus  follow  the  example  of  my  lord ;"  keenly  alluding  to 
the  avaricious  disposition  of  the  king,  who  was  accustomed 
to  retain  for  a  long  time  in  his  own  hands  the  vacant  eccle- 
siastical benefices. 

It  is  to  be  remarked  that  three  princes,^  distinguished  for 

'  The  princes  mentioned  by  Giraldus  as  most  distinguished  in  North 
and  South  Wales,  and  most  celebrated  in  his  time,  were,  1.  Owen,  son  of 
Gruffydh,  in  North  Wales;  2.  Meredyth,  son  of  Grufiydh,  in  South 
Wales ;  3.  Owen  de  Cyfeihoc,  in  Powys  ;  4.  Cadwalader,  son  of  Gruf- 
fydh, in  North  Wales  ;  5.  Grufiydh  of  Maelor,  in  Powys  ;  6.  Khys,  son 
of  Gruffydh,  in  South  Wales  ;  7.  David,  son  of  Owen,  in  North  Wales ; 
8.  Howei,  son  of  Jorwerth,  in  South  Wales. 

1.  Owen  Gwynedd,  son  of  Gruffydh  ap  Conan,  died  in  1169,  having 
governed  his  country  well  and  worthily  for  the  space  of  thirty-twc 
yaars.     He  was  fortunate  and  victorious  in  all  his  affairs,  and  never 

H  H 


4:GG  THE    ITIKEEAET    THEOTJaH   "WALES. 

their  justice,  wisdom,  and  princely  moderation,  ruled,  in  our 
time,  over  the  three  provinces  of  Wales  :  Owen,  son  of 
Gruffydh,  in  Yenedotia,  or  North  Wales ;  Meredyth,  hia 
grandson,  son  of  Grruffjdh,  who  died  early  in  life,  in  South 
"Wales ;  and  Owen  de  Cevelioc,  in  Powys.  But  two  other 
princes  were  highly  celebrated  for  their  generosity ;  Cad- 
walader,  son  of  Grruffydh,  in  North  Wales,  and  GrrufFydh  of 
Maelor,  son  of  Madoc,  in  Powys  ;  and  Rhys,  son  of  Gruffydh, 
in  South  Wales,  deserved  commendation  for  his  enterprising 
and  independent  spirit.  In  North  Wales,  David,  son  of 
Owen,  and  on  the  borders  of  Morgannoc,  in  South  Wales, 
Howel,  son  of  Jorwerth  of  Caerleon,  maintained  their  good 
faith  and  credit,  by  observing  a  strict  neutrality  between  the 
Welsh  and  English. 

took  any  enterprize  in  hand  but  he  achieved  it.  2,  Meredyth  ap  Gruf- 
fydh  ap  Rhys,  lord  of  Caerdigan  and  Stratywy,  died  in  1163,  at  the 
early  age  of  twenty- five  ;  a  worthy  knight,  fortunate  in  battle,  just  and 
liberal  to  all  men.  3.  Owen  Cyfeilioc  was  the  son  of  G-rufiydhap  Mere- 
dyth ap  Blethyn,  who  was  created  lord  of  Powys  by  Henry  I.,  and  died 
about  the  year  1197.  leaving  his  principality  to  his  son  Gwenwynwyn, 
from  whom  that  part  of  Powys  was  called  Powys  Gwenwynwyn,  to  dis- 
tinguish it  from  Powys  Yadoc,  the  possession  of  the  lords  of  Bronifieid 
The  death  of  this  prince  is  merely  noticed  in  the  Welsh  Chronicle, 
without  any  eulogium  as  to  his  character  or  militai-y  exploits,  whicU 
may  be  accounted  for  by  his  general  adherence  to  the  royal  cause 
against  his  countrymen  the  Welsh.  To  acuteness  and  good  judgment 
in  the  government  of  his  territory,  and  to  a  warlike  and  independent 
«jpirit,  he  added  the  milder  accomplishments  of  poetry,  and  the  liberal 
enjoyments  of  convivial  hospitality.  The  poems  ascribed  to  him  possess 
great  spirit,  and  prove  that  he  was,  as  Giraldus  terms  him,  "linguae 
dicacis,"  in  its  best  sense.  4.  Cadwalader,  son  of  Q-ruffydh  ap  Conan, 
prince  of  North  Wales,  died  in  1172.  4.  GrufFydh  of  Maelor  was 
son  of  Madoc  ap  Meredyth  ap  Blethyn,  prince  of  Powys,  who  died 
at  Winchester  in  1160.  "  This  man  was  ever  the  king  of  England's 
friend,  and  was  one  that  feared  God,  and  relieved  the  poor  :  his  body 
was  conveyed  honourably  to  Powys,  and  buried  at  Myvod."  His  son 
Grujffydh  succeeded  him  in  the  lordship  of  Bromfield,  and  died  about 
the  year  1190.  6.  Rhys  ap  Gruffydh,  or  the  lord  Rhys,  was  son  of 
Gruifyd  ap  Rhys  ap  Theodor,  who  died  in  1137.  The  ancient  writers 
have  been  very  profuse  in  their  praises  of  this  celebrated  prince.  7. 
David,  son  of  Owen  Gwynedh,  who,  on  the  death  of  his  father,  forcibly 
seized  the  principality  of  North  Wales,  slaying  his  brother  Howel  in 
battle,  and  setting  aside  the  claims  of  the  lawful  inheritor  of  the  thronej 
Jorwerth  Trwyndwn,  whose  son,  Llewelyn  ap  Jorwerth,  in  1194,  re* 
covered  his  inheritance.  8.  Howel,  son  of  Jorwerth  of  C&oriecn,  ap' 
pears  to  have  been  distinguished  chiefly  by  his  ferocity. 


WENLOCK.  467 

CHAPTEE   XIII. 

OP  THE  JOTJRNET  BY    WENLOCH,    BTIUMFELD,  THE  CASTLE  OF 
LUDLOW,  AKD  LEOMINSTER,  TO  HEEEEORD. 

From  Shrewsbury,  we  continued  our  journey  towards  Wen- 
locn,^  by  a  narrow  and  rugged  way,  called  Evil  street,^  where, 
in  our  time,  a  Jew,  travelling  witb  the  archdeacon  of  the 
place,  whose  name  was  Sin  (JPeccatum),  and  the  dean,  whose 
name  was  Devil,  towards  Shrewsbury,  hearing  the  arch- 
deacon say,  that  his  archdeaconry  began  at  a  place  calkd 
Evil-street,  and  extended  as  far  as  Mal-pas,  towards  Chester, 
pleasantly  told  them,  "  It  would  be  a  miracle,  if  his  fate 
brought  him  safe  out  of  a  country,  whose  archdeacon  was  Sin, 
whose  dean  the  devil ;  the  entrance  to  the  archdeaconry  Evil- 
street,  and  its  exit  Bad-pass." 

From  Wenloch,  we  passed  by  the  little  cell  of  Brumfeld,'' 

'  St.  Milburga,  sister  of  St.  Mildred,  and  daughter  of  Merewald,  son  of 
Penda,  king  of  the  Mercians,  retired  to  a  place  then  called  Wimnicas, 
now  Wenlock,  in  Shropshire,  where,  by  the  assistance  of  her  father  Mere- 
wald, and  her  uncle  Wulpher,  king  of  the  Mercians,  she  founded  a  mo- 
nastery for  nuns,  of  which  she  became  the  first  abbess,  A.D.  676.  In  this 
consecrated  retirement,  St.  Milburga  ended  her  days,  and  was  buried 
near  the  altar  in  the  church  of  her  monastery  at  Wenlock.  This  abbey 
was  probably  destroyed  during  the  general  devastation  of  the  kingdom 
by  the  Danes,  and  with  it  all  memorials  of  the  mausoleum  of  its  foun- 
dress and  patron  saint  perished.  During  the  reign  of  William  the 
Conqueror,  Roger  de  Montgomery  rebuilt  and  endowed  it ;  on  which 
occasion  the  tomb  of  St,  Milburga  was  accidentally  discovered,  the 
circumstances  of  which  are  detailed  by  William  of  Malmesbury.  See 
W.  of  M.,  p.  243,  Bohn's  Antiquarian  Library.  Having  restored  this  an- 
cient monastery,  Robert  de  Montgomery  placed  therein  a  prior  and  con- 
vent of  Cluniac  monks,  who  were  considered  as  a  cell  to  the  house  "  De 
Caritate,"  in  France ;  and  suffered  the  same  vicissitudes  with  the  other 
alien  priories,  till,  in  the  reign  of  king  Richard  II.,  it  was  naturalized, 
and  became  "prioratus  indigena.''  The  ruins  of  this  priory  are  both 
extensive  and  picturesque,  and  well  desei^e  a  visit  from  the  artist  j  the 
colour  of  its  materials  is  good,  and  improved  by  the  wall  flowers  and 
Dther  plants  growing  from  the  interstices  of  the  stones. 

2  I  can  find  no  place  on  the  map,  near  Shrewsbury,  which  at  all  cor- 
responds with  the  name  of  "  Mala  Platea,"  or  Ill-street.  Tlie  town  of 
Malpas,  in  Cheshh-e,  was  the  "  Malus  Passus"  alluded  to  by  Giraldus. 

2  It  appears  that  a  small  college  of  prebendaries,  or  secular  canons, 
resided  at  Bromfield  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  I.;  Osbert,  the  prio^, 
being  recorded  as  a  witness  to  a  deed  made  before  the  year  1148.  In 
1155,  they  became  Benedictines,  and  surrendered  their  church  and  lands 

U  H  2 


468  THE    ITINEEAET    THEOTJGH   WALES. 

the  noble  castle  of  Ludlow,^  througli  Leominster'  to  Here- 
ford, leaving  on  our  right  hand  the  districts  of  Melenyth 
and  Elvel ;  thus  (describmg  as  it  were  a  circle)  we  came  to 
the  same  point  from  which  we  had  commenced  this  laborious 
ioumey  through  Wales. 

During  this  long  and  laudable  legation,  about  three  thou- 
sand men  were  signed  with  the  cross ;  well  skilled  in  the 
use  of  arrows  and  lances,  and  versed  in  military  matters; 
impatient  to  attack  the  enemies  of  the  faith  ;  profitably  and 
happily  engaged  for  the  service  of  Christ,  if  the  expedition 
of  the  Holy  Cross  had  been  forwarded  with  an  alacrity 
equal  to  the  diligence  and  devotion  with  which  the  forces 
were  collected.  But  by  the  secret,  though  never  unjust, 
judgment  of  God,  the  journey  of  the  Eoman  emperor  was 
delayed,  and  dissensions  arose  amongst  our  kings.  The  pre- 
mature and  fatal  hand  of  death  arrested  the  king  of  Sicily, 
wlio  had  been  the  foremost  sovereign  in  supplying  the  holy 
land  with  corn  and  provisions  during  the  period  of  their 
distress.  In  consequence  of  his  death,  violent  contentions 
arose  amongst  our  princes  respecting  their  several  rights  to 
the  kingdom  ;  and  the  faithful  beyond  sea  suffered  severely 
by  want  and  famine,  surrounded  on  all  sides  by  enemies,  and 
most  anxiously  waiting  for  supplies.     But  as  affliction  may 

to  the  abbey  of  St.  Peter's  at  Gloucester,  whereupon  a  prior  and  monks 
were  placed  there,  and  continued  till  the  dissolution.  An  ancient  gate- 
way and  some  remains  of  the  priory  still  testify  the  existence  of  this 
religious  house,  the  local  situation  of  which,  near  the  confluence  of  the 
rivers  Oney  and  Teme,  has  been  accurately  described  by  Leland.  Brom- 
feild  is  a  small  village  immediately  adjoining  the  finely  wooded  seat 
of  theClives,  called  Oakley  Park. 

1  In  their  journey  from  Wenlook,  the  crusaders  passed  by  the  cell  of 
Bromfield  ;  but  it  does  not  appear  that  they  stopped  either  at  Ludlow 
or  Leominster,  but  they  pursued  their  course  directly  to  Hereford.  The 
castle  of  Ludlow  still  merits  the  epithet  of  "  nobile."  given  it  by  Gi- 
raldus  ;  seated  on  a  bold  and  well-wooded  rock,  at  the  foot  of  which 
runs  the  river  Teme,  it  presents  itself  to  the  eye  as  a  most  commanding 
and  picturesque  object. 

2  Our  travellers  quitting  Ludlow,  passed  through  the  town  of  Leo- 
minster on  their  road  to  Hereford.  It  was  during  the  middle  ages  a 
flourishing  town,  as  it  was  the  centre  of  the  wool-  trade  of  this  part  of 
the  country.  It  owed  its  origin  to  a  monastery,  founded  by  Merewald, 
prince  of  the  Mercians,  son  of  king  Penda,  which,  having  been  de- 
stroyed by  the  Danes,  was  afterwards  changed  into  a  nunnery,  and  was 
finally  re-established  as  a  priory  of  Benedictine  monks,  by  Henry  I , 
who  gave  it  as  a  cell  to  the  great  abbey  of  Reading. 


CHABACTEB  OF  AECHBISHOP  BALDWIN.      469 

Btrengthen  the  understanding,  as  gold  is  tried  by  fire,  and 
virtue  may  be  confirmed  in  weakness,  these  things  are 
suffered  to  happen ;  since  adversity  (as  Gregory  testifies) 
opposed  to  good  prayers  is  the  probation  of  virtue,  not  the 
judgment  of  reproof.  For  who  does  not  know  how  fortunate 
a  circumstance  it  was  that  Paul  went  to  Italy,  and  suftered 
BO  dreadful  a  shipwreck  ?  But  the  ship  of  his  heart  remained 
unbroken  amidst  the  waves  of  the  sea. 

CHAPTEE   XIV. 

A  DESCBIPTION  OF  BALDWIN,  AECHBISHOP  OF  CANTEEBUET. 

Let  it  not  be  thought  superfluous  to  describe  the  exterior 
and  inward  qualities  of  that  person,  the  particulars  of  whose 
embassy,  and  as  it  were  holy  peregrination,  we  have  briefly 
and  succinctly  related.  He  was  a  man  of  a  dark  complexion, 
of  an  open  and  venerable  countenance,  of  a  moderate  stature, 
a  good  person,  and  rather  inclined  to  be  thin  than  corpulent. 
He  was  a  modest  and  grave  man,  of  so  great  abstinence  and 
continence,  that  ill  report  scarcely  ever  presumed  to  say  any 
thing  against  him ;  a  man  of  few  words ;  slow  to  anger, 
temperate  and  moderate  in  all  his  passions  and  affections ; 
swift  to  hear,  slow  to  speak ;  he  was  from  an  early  age  well 
instructed  in  literature,  and  bearing  the  yoke  of  the  Lord 
from  his  youth,  by  the  purity  of  his  morals  became  a  dis- 
tinguished luminary  to  the  people ;  wherefore  voluntarily 
resigning  the  honour  of  the  archlevite,^  which  he  had  ca- 
nonically  obtained,  and  despising  the  pomps  and  vanities  of 
the  world,  he  assumed  with  holy  devotion  the  habit  of  the  Cis- 
tercian order;  and  as  lie  had  been  formerly  more  than  a  monk 

*  Baldwin  was  born  at  Exeter,  in  Devonshire,  of  a  low  family,  but 
being  endowed  by  nature  with  good  abilities,  applied  them  to  an  early 
cultivation  of  sacred  and  profane  literature.  His  good  conduct  pro- 
cured him  the  friendship  of  Bartholomew,  bishop  of  Exeter,  who  pro- 
moted him  to  the  archdeaconry  of  that  see  ;  resigning  this  preferment, 
he  assumed  the  cowl,  and  in  a  few  years  became  abbot  of  the  Cister- 
cian monastery  at  Ford.  In  tlie  year  1180,  lie  was  advanced  to  the 
bishopric  of  Worcester,  and  in  1184,  translated  to  the  archiepiscopal 
see  of  Canterbury.  In  the  year  1188,  he  made  his  progress  through 
Wales,  preaching  with  fervour  the  service  of  the  Cross  ;  to  which  holy 
catise  he  feU  a  sacrifice  in  the  year  1190,  having  religiously,  honourably 
and  charitably  ended  his  days  in  the  Holy  Land. 

2  G-iraldus  here  alludes  to  the  dignity  of  archdeacon,  which  Baldwin 
had  obtained  in  the  church  of  Exeter. 


470  THE    ITINEHART    THEOUGH   WALES. 

in  his  manDers,  withm  the  space  of  a  year  he  was  appointed 
abbot,  and  in  a  few  years  afterwards  preferred  first  to  a 
bishopric,  and  then  to  an  archbishopric  ;  and  having  been 
found  faithful  in  a  little,  had  authority  given  him  over  much. 
But,  as  Cicero  says,  "  Nature  had  made  nothing  entirely 
perfect ;"  when  he  came  into  power,  not  laying  aside  that 
sweet  innate  benignity  which  he  had  always  shewn  when  a 
pi'ivate  man,  sustaining  his  people  with  his  staiF  rather  than 
chastising  them  with  rods,  feeding  them  as  it  were  with  the 
milk  of  a  mother,  and  not  making  use  of  the  scourges  of  the 
father,  he  incurred  public  scandal  for  his  remissness.  So 
great  was  his  lenity  that  he  put  an  end  to  all  pastoral  rigour  ; 
and  was  a  better  monk  than  abbot,  a  better  bishop  than 
archbishop.  Hence  pope  Urban  addressed  him  ;  "  Urban, 
servant  of  the  servants  of  Grod,  to  the  most  fervent  monk, 
to  the  warm  abbot,  to  the  luke-warm  bishop,  to  the  remiss 
archbishop,  health,  &c." 

This  second  successor  to  the  martyr  Thomas,  having 
heard  of  the  insults  offered  to  our  Saviour  and  his  holy 
cross,  was  amougst  the  first  who  signed  themselves  with  the 
cross,  and  manfully  assumed  the  office  of  preaching  its  ser- 
vice both  at  home  and  in  the  most  remote  parts  of  the 
kingdom.  Pursuing  his  jourtiey  to  the  Holy  Land,  he  em- 
barked on  board  a  vessel  at  Marseilles,  and  landed  safely  in 
a  port  at  Tyre,  from  whence  he  proceeded  to  Acre,  where  he 
found  our  army  both  attacking  and  attacked,  our  forces  dis- 
pirited by  the  defection  of  the  princes,  and  thrown  into  a 
state  of  desolation  and  despair;  fatigued  by  long  expec- 
tation of  supplies,  greatly  afflicted  by  hunger  and  want, 
and  distempered  by  the  inclemency  of  the  air :  finding  his 
end  approaching,  he  embraced  his  fellow  subjects,  relieving 
their  wants  by  liberal  acts  of  charity  and  pious  exhorta- 
tions, and  by  the  tenor  of  his  life  and  actions  strengthened 
them  in  the  faith ;  whose  ways,  life,  and  deeds,  may  he  who 
is  alone  the  "  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life,"  the  way  without 
offence,  the  truth  without  doubt,  and  the  life  without  end, 
direct  in  truth,  together  with  the  whole  body  of  the  faith- 
ful, and  for  the  glory  of  his  name  and  the  palm  of  faith 
which  he  hath  planted,  teach  their  hands  to  war,  and  their 
fingers  to  fight. 

END    OF    THE    ITINERARY    THROUGH    WALES» 


THE 

DESGEIPTION  OF  WALES 


FIEST  PEEFACE. 

TO  STEPHEN  LANaTON,  ARCHBISHOP  OF  CANTERBURY.^ 

I,  WHO,  at  the  expense  of  three  years'  labour,  arranged,  a 
short  time  ago,  in  three  parts,  the  Topography  of  Ireland, 
with  a  description  of  its  natural  curiosities,  and  who  after- 
wards, by  two  years'  study,  completed  in  two  parts  the 
Yaticinal  History  of  its  Conquest ;  and  who,  by  publishing 
the  Itinerary  of  the  Holy  Man  (Baldwin)  through  Cambria; 
prevented  his  laborious  mission  from  perishing  in  obscurity. 
do  now  propose,  in  the  present  little  work,  to  give  some 
account  of  this  my  native  country,  and  to  describe  the 
genius  of  its  inhabitants,  so  entirely  distinct  from  that  of 
other  nations.  And  this  production  of  my  industry  I  have 
determined  to  dedicate  to  you,  illustrious  Stephen,  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  as  I  before  ascribed  to  you  my  Itin- 
erary ;  considering  you  as  a  man  no  less  distinguished  by 
your  piety,  than  conspicuous  for  your  learning  ;  though  so 
humble  an  ojEfering  may  possibly  be  unworthy  the  acceptance 
of  a  personage  who,  from  his  eminence,  deserves  to  be  pre- 
sented with  w^orks  of  the  greatest  merit. 

Some,  indeed,  object  to  this  my  undertaking,  and,  ap- 
parently from  motives  of  affection,  compare  me  to  a  painter 
who  rich  in  colours,  and  like  another  Zeuxis,  eminent  in  his 
art,  is  endeavouring  with  all  his  skill  and  industry  to  give 

^  Stephen  Langton  succeeded  to  Hubert  Walter  in  the  archbishopric 
of  Canterbury,  a.d.  1207,  and  was  consecrated  by  the  Pope  at  Viterbo. 
He  was  a  man  of  great  learning.  Having  presided  as  archbishop  for 
23  years,  be  died  at  his  park  at  Slindon,  on  the  9th  of  July,  1228. 


472  i^EscniPTioN  or  wales. 

celebrity  to  a  cottage,  or  to  some  other  contemptible  object» 
whilst  the  world  is  anxiously  expecting  from  his  hand  a 
temple  or  a  palace.  Thus  they  wonder  that  I,  amidst  the 
many  great  and  striking  subjects  which  the  world  presents, 
should  choose  to  describe  and  to  adorn,  with  all  the  graces 
of  composition,  such  remote  corners  of  the  earth  as  Ireland 
and  Wales. 

Otners  again,  reproaching  me  with  greater  severity,  say, 
that  the  pifts  which  have  been  bestowed  upon  me  from  above, 
ought  not  to  be  wasted  upon  these  insignificant  objects,  nor 
lavished  in  a  vain  display  of  learning  on  the  commendation 
of  princes,  who,  from  their  ignorance  and  want  of  liberality, 
have  neither  taste  to  appreciate,  nor  hearts  to  remunerate 
literary  excellence.  And  they  further  add,  that  every 
faculty  which  emanates  from  the  Deity,  ought  rather  to  be 
applied  to  the  illustration  of  celestial  objects,  and  to  the 
exaltation  of  his  glory,  from  whose  abundance  all  our  talents 
have  been  received  ;  every  faculty  (say  they)  ought  to  be 
employed  in  praising  him  from  whom,  as  from  a  perennial 
source,  every  perfect  gift  is  derived,  and  from  whose  bounty 
every  thing  which  is  offered  with  sincerity  obtains  an  ample 
reward.  But  since  excellent  histories  of  other  countries 
have  been  composed  and  published  by  writers  of  eminence, 
I  have  been  induced,  by  the  love  I  bear  to  my  country  and 
to  posterity,  to  believe  that  I  should  perform  neither  an  use- 
less nor  an  unacceptable  service,  were  I  to  unfold  the  hidden 
merits  of  my  native  land ;  to  rescue  from  obscurity  those 
glorious  actions  which  have  been  hitherto  imperfectly  de- 
scribed, and  to  bring  into  repute,  by  my  method  of  treating 
it,  a  subject  till  now  regarded  as  contemptible. 

What  indeed  could  my  feeble  and  unexercised  efforts  add 
to  tlie  histories  of  the  destruction  of  Troy,  Thebes,  or 
Athens,  or  to  the  conquest  of  the  shores  of  Latium  ?  Be- 
sides, to  do  what  has  been  already  done,  is,  in  fact,  to  be 
doing  no?;hii2g ;  I  have,  therefore,  thought  it  more  eligible 
to  apply  ibj  iiidubtry  to  the  arrangement  of  the  history  of 
my  narl\(5  ccuiiiiry,  hitherto  almost  wholly  overlooked  by 
strangers;  bvt  :.ni;>3reating  to  my  relations  and  countrymen; 
and  from  ^tese  small  beginnings  to  aspire  by  degrees  to 
works  of  ft  n-:b:cr  cast.  From  these  inconsiderable  attempts, 
some  idea  may  be  formed  with  what  success,  should  Fortune 


i 


riEST    PKEFACE.  473 

afford  an  opportunity,  I  am  likely  to  treat  matters  of  greater 
importance.  For  although  some  things  should  be  made  our 
priocipal  objects,  whilst  others  ought  not  to  be  wholly  ne- 
glected, I  may  surely  be  allowed  to  exercise  the  powers  of 
my  youth,  as  yet  untaught  and  unexperienced,  in  pursuits 
of  this  latter  nature,  lest  by  habit  I  should  feel  a  pleasure 
in  indolence  and  in  sloth,  the  parent  of  vice. 

I  have  therefore  employed  these  studies  as  a  kind  of  intro- 
duction to  the  glorious  treasures  of  that  most  excellent  of 
the  sciences,  which  alone  deserves  the  name  of  science; 
which  alone  can  render  us  wise  to  rule  and  to  instruct  man- 
kind ;  which  alone  the  other  sciences  follow,  as  attendants 
do  their  queen.  Laying  therefore  in  my  youth  the  founda- 
tions of  so  noble  a  structure,  it  is  my  intention,  if  Grod  will 
assist  me  and  prolong  my  life,  to  reserve  my  maturer  years 
for  composing  a  treatise  upon  so  perfect,  so  sacred  a  subject ; 
for  according  to  the  poet, 

"  Ardua  quippe  fides  robustos  exigit  annos  j" 

"  The  important  concerns  of  faith  require  a  mind  in  its  full  vigour  j" 

I  may  be  permitted  to  indulge  myself  for  a  short  time  in 
other  pursuits ;  but  in  this  I  should  wish  not  only  to  con- 
tinue, but  to  die. 

But  before  I  enter  on  this  important  s abject,  I  demand 
a  short  interval,  to  enable  me  to  lay  before  the  public  my 
Treatise  on  the  Instruction  of  a  Prince,  which  has  been  so 
frequently  promised,  as  well  as  the  Description  of  Wales, 
which  is  now  before  me,  and  the  Topography  of  Britain. 

Of  all  the  British  writers,  Gildas  aloue  appears  to  me 
(as  often  as  the  course  of  my  subject  leads  me  to  consult 
him)  worthy  of  imitation ;  for  by  committing  to  paper  the 
things  which  he  himself  saw  and  knew,  and  by  declaring 
rather  than  describing  the  desolation  of  his  country,  he  has 
con:piled  a,  history  more  remarkable  for  its  truth  than  for 
its  elegance. 

Griraldus  therefore  follows  Gildas,  whom  he  wishes  he 
could  copy  ji  his  life  and  manners ;  becoming  an  imitator 
of  his  wisdom  rather  than  of  his  eloquence — of  his  mind 
rather  than  of  his  writings — of  his  zeal  rather  than  of  hia 
style — of  his  life  rather  than  of  his  language. 


jfc74:  THE    iriNEKARl     THEOTIGH   WALES. 

SECOND  PEEFACE. 

TO  THE  SAME. 

Whe^t,  amidst  various  literary  pursuits,  I  first  applied  my 
mind  to  the  compilation  of  history,  I  determined,  lest  I 
should  appear  ungrateful  to  my  native  land,  to  describe,  to 
the  best  of  my  abilities,  my  own  country  and  its  adjoining 
regions  ;  and  afterwards,  under  God's  guidance,  to  proceed 
to  a  description  of  more  distant  territories.  But  since  some 
leading  men  (whom  we  have  both  seen  and  known)  show 
so  great  a  contempt  for  Jiterature,  that  they  immediately 
shut  up  within  their  book -cases  the  excellent  works  with 
which  they  are  presented,  and  thus  doom  them,  as  it  were, 
to  a  perpetual  imprisonment ;  I  entreat  you,  illustrious  Pre- 
late, to  prevent  the  present  little  work,  which  will  shortly 
be  delivered  to  you,  from  perishing  in  obscurity.  And  be- 
cause this,  as  well  as  my  former  productions,  though  of  no 
transcendant  merit,  may  hereafter  prove  to  many  a  source 
of  entertainment  and  instruction,  I  entreat  you  generously 
to  order  it  to  be  made  public,  by  which  it  will  acquire 
reputation.  And  I  shall  consider  myself  sufficiently  rewarded 
for  my  trouble,  if,  withdrawing  for  a  while  from  your  reli- 
gious and  secular  occupations,  you  would  kindly  condescend 
to  peruse  this  book,  or,  at  least,  give  it  an  attentive  hear- 
ing ;  for  in  times  like  these,  when  no  one  remunerates  lite- 
sary  productions,  I  neither  desire  nor  expect  any  other  re- 
compense. Not  that  it  would  appear  in  any  way  inconsistent, 
however  there  exists  among  men  of  rank  a  kind  of  con- 
spiracy against  authors,  if  a  prelate  so  eminently  conspi- 
cuous for  his  virtues,  for  his  abilities,  both  natural  and 
acquired,  for  irreproachable  morals,  and  for  munificence, 
should  distinguish  himself  likewise  by  becoming  the  generous 
and  sole  patron  of  literature.  To  comprise  your  merits  in 
a  few  words,  the  lines  of  Martial  addressed  to  Trajan,  whilst 
serving  under  Dioclesian,  may  be  deservedly  applied  to  you : 

"  Laudari  deoes  quoniam  sub  principe  duro, 
Temporibusque  malis,  ausus  es  esse  bonus." 


SECOND   PEEFACE.  475 

And  those  also  of  Virgil  to  Mecsenas,  which  extol  the  huma- 
nity of  that  great  man  : 

"  Omnia  cum  possis  tanto  tam  clarus  amico, 
Te  sensit  nemo  posse  nocere  tamen." 

Many  indeed  remonstrate  against  my  proceedings,  and 
those  particularly  who  call  themselves  my  friends  insist  that, 
in  consequence  of  my  violent  attachment  to  study,  I  pay  no 
attention  to  the  concerns  of  the  world,  or  to  the  interests  of 
my  family  ;  and  that,  on  this  account,  I  shall  experience  a 
delay  in  my  promotion  to  worldly  dignities  ;  that  the  in- 
fluence of  authors,  both  poets  and  historians,  has  long 
since  ceased  ;  that  the  respect  paid  to  literature  vanished 
with  literary  princes  ;  and  that  in  these  degenerate  days  very 
different  paths  lead  to  honours  and  opulence.  I  allow  all 
this,  I  readily  allow  it,  and  acquiesce  in  the  truth.  For  the 
unprincipled  and  covetous  attach  themselves  to  the  court,  the 
churchmen  to  their  books,  and  the  ambitious  to  the  public 
offices  ;^  but  as  every  man  is  under  the  influence  of  some 
darling  passion,  so  the  love  of  letters  and  the  study  of  elo- 
quence have  from  my  infancy  had  for  me  peculiar  charms  of 
attraction.  Impelled  by  this  thirst  for  knowledge,  I  have 
carried  my  researches  into  the  mysterious  works  of  nature 
farther  than  the  generality  of  my  cotemporaries,  and  for 
the  benefit  of  posterity  liave  rescued  from  oblivion  the  re- 
markable events  of  my  own  times.  But  this  object  was  not 
to  be  secured  without  an  indefatigable,  though  at  the  same 
time  an  agreeable,  exertion  ;  for  an  accurate  investigation  of 
every  particular  is  attended  with  much  difficulty.  It  is 
difficult  to  produce  an  orderly  account  of  the  investigation 
and  discovery  of  truth ;  it  is  difficult  to  preserve  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end  a  connected  relation  unbroken  by 
irrelevant  matter ;  and  it  is  difficult  to  render  the  narration 
no  less  elegant  in  the  diction,  than  instructive  in  its  matter, 
for  in  prosecuting  the  series  of  events,  the  choice  of  happy 
expressions  is  equally  perplexing,  as  the  search  after  them 

'  The  literal  meaning  of  the  word  pyxis  here  used  by  Griraldus,  is  a 
box,  which  by  Du  Cange  is  interpreted,  Thesaurus,  fiscus  publicus^  locus 
tibi  assercatitur  pecuftice  publico?,  i.  e.  the  pubhc  exchequer;  it  is  alsc 
used  in  the  sense  of  a  ballot-box,  in  which  votes  are  collect.ed,  Pymt 
capituh  171  qua  nuffrayia  coUiyuntur,  <J[« 


476  THE   ITINEEAET   THEOUGH   WALES. 

IS  painful.  Whatever  is  written  requires  the  most  intense 
thought,  and  every  expression  should  be  carefully  polished 
before  it  be  submitted  to  the  public  eye  ;  for,  by  exposing 
itself  to  the  examination  of  the  present  and  of  future  ages, 
it  must  necessarily  undergo  the  criticism  not  only  of  the 
acute,  but  also  of  the  dissatisfied,  reader.  Words  merely 
uttered  are  soon  forgotten,  and  the  admiration  or  disgust 
which  they  occasioned  is  no  more ;  but  writings  once  pub- 
lished are  never  lost,  and  remain  as  lasting  memorials  either 
of  the  glory  or  of  the  disgrace  of  the  author.  Hence  the 
observation  of  Seneca,  that  the  malicious  attention  of  the 
envious  reader  dwells  with  no  less  satisfaction  on  a  faulty 
than  on  an  elegant  expression,  and  is  as  anxious  to  discover 
what  it  may  ridicule,  as  what  it  may  commend  ;  as  the  poet 
also  observes : 

"  Discit  enim  citius  meminitque  libentius  illud 
Quod  quia  deridet,  quam  quod  probat  et  veneratur." 

Among  the  pursuits,  therefore,  most  worthy  of  commen- 
dation, this  holds  by  no  means  the  lowest  rank ;  for  history, 
as  the  moral  philosopher  declares,  "  is  the  record  of  anti- 
quity, the  testimony  of  ages,  the  light  of  truth,  the  soul  of 
memory,  the  mistress  of  conduct,  and  the  herald  of  ancient 
times." 

This  study  is  the  more  delightful,  as  it  is  more  honourable 
to  produce  works  worthy  of  being  quoted  than  to  quote  the 
works  of  others ;  as  it  is  more  desirable  to  be  the  author 
of  compositions  which  deserve  to  be  admired  than  to  be 
esteemed  a  good  judge  of  the  writings  of  other  men ;  as  it  is 
more  meritorious  to  be  the  just  object  of  other  men's  com- 
mendations than  to  be  considered  an  adept  in  pointing  out 
the  merits  of  others.  On  these  pleasing  reflections  I  feed 
and  regale  myself;  for  I  would  rather  resemble  Jerome  than 
Crcesus,  and  I  prefer  to  riches  themselves  the  man  who  ia 
capable  of  despising  them.  With  these  gratifying  ideas  I 
rest  contented  and  delighted,  valuing  moderation  more  than 
intemperance,  and  an  honourable  sufficiency  more  than 
superfluity  ;  for  intemperance  and  superfluity  produce  their 
own  destruction,  but  their  opposite  virtues  never  perish ; 
the  former  vanish,  but  the  latter,  like  eternity,  remain  for 
ever ;  in  short,  I  prefer  praise  to  lucre,  and  reputation  to 
riches. 


«OTENTS  OF  THE  CHAPTERS. 

BOOK  I. 

OtLkrrfn  ^^  paab 

L  Length  and  breadth  of  Wales,  the  nature  of  its  soil,  and 

the  three  remaining  tribes  of  Britons     .  .  .  473 

II.  Of  the  ancient  division  of  Wales  into  three  parts  .  479 

III.  Genealogy  of  the  princes  of  Wales  .  .  .  480 

IV.  Cantreds — Royal  palaces — Cathedrals       .  .  .  481 

V.  Mountains  and  rivers  of  Wales     ....  483 

VI.  Concerning  the  pleasantness  and  fertility  of  Wales  .  488 

VII.  Origin  of  the  names  Cambria  and  Wales  .  .  489 
VIII,  Concerning  the  nature,  manners,  and  dress — The  bold- 
ness, agility,  and  courage  of  this  nation             .  .  490 

IX.  Their  sober  supper  and  frugahty  ....  492 
X.  Tlieir  hospitaUty  and  hberality      ....  492 

XI.  Concerning  the  cutting  of  their  hair,  then*  care  of  their 

teeth,  and  shaving  of  their  beards  .  .  .  494 

XII.  Their  quickness  and  sharpness  of  understanding  .  494 

XIII.  Their  symphonies  and  songs         ....  498 

XIV.  Their  wit  and  pleasantry  ....  498 
XV.  Their  boldness  and  confidence  in  speaking  .  .  500 

XVI.  Concerning   the  soothsayers  of  this  nation,  and  persons 

as  it  were  possessed       .....  501 

XVII.  Their  love  of  high  birth  and  ancient  genealogy     .  .  505 

A. VIII.  Their  ancient  faith,  love  of  Christianity,  and  devotion      .  506 

BOOK  II. 

I,  Concerning  the  inconstancy  and  instability  of  this  na- 
tion, and  their  want  of  reverence  for  good  faith  and 
oaths  .  .  .  .  .  .508 

II.  Their  Hving  by  plunder,  and  disregard  of  the  bonds  of 

peace  and  friendship  ....  509 

III.  Their  deficiency  in  battle,  and  base  and  dishonourable 

flight  .  .  .  .  .  .511 

IV.  Their  ambitious  seizure  of  lands,  and  dissensions  among 

brothers  ......  513 

V.  Their  great  exaction,  and  want  of  moderation       .  .  513 

VI.  Concerning  the  crime  of  incest,  and  the  abuse  of  churches 

by  succession  and  participation  .  ,  .  513 

VII.  Their  sins,  and  the  consequent  loss  of  Britain  and  of 

Troy  .  .  .  .  .  .514 

VIII.  In  what  manner  this  nation  is  to  be  overcome  .  516 
JX.  In    what    manner  Wales,  when  conquered,    should    be 

governed  ...  .  619 


DESCRIPTION    OF  WALES. 


BOOK  I. 

CHAPTER  I. 

OF  THE  LEITGTH  AND   BEEADTH   OF    WALES,  THE  KATUEE    01 
ITS  SOIL,  AND  THE  THEEE  REMAINING  TRIBES  OF  BRITONS. 

Cambria,  whicli,  by  a  corrupt  and  common  term,  though 
less  proper,  is  in  modern  times  called  Wales,  is  about  two 
lumdred  miles  long  and  one  hundred  broad.  The  length 
from  Port  Grordber^  in  Anglesey  to  Port  Eskewin^  in  Mon- 
mouthshire is  eight  days'  journey  in  extent ;  the  breadth 
from  Porth  Mawr,^  or  the  great  Port  of  St.  David's,  to 
E-yd-helic,*  which  in  Latin  means  Vadum  salicis,  or  the  Eord 
of  the  Willow,  and  in  English  is  called  Willow-forde,  is. 
four  days'  journey.  It  is  a  country  very  strongly  defended 
by   high  mountains,  deep  vallies,  extensive  woods,  rivers, 

'  Port  Gordber,  written  Gordwr  by  Humphrey  Lhwyd  in  his  Bre- 
viary of  Britain,  probably  a  corruption  frona  Gorddyar,  a  roaring,  ap- 
plied to  the  sea,  as  Gorddyar  mor,  the  roaring  of  the  sea. 

2  Port  Eskewin.— This  harbour,  now  known  by  the  name  of  Port- 
Bcwit  (and  recorded  in  the  Triads  as  one  of  the  three  passages  or  ferries 
in  the  Isle  of  Britain),  is  situated  on  the  Welsh  side  of  the  Bristol 
channel,  at  a  short  distance  from  the  lower  passage. 

3  Port  Mawr,  or  the  large  port,  is  thus  mentioned  by  Leland  in  hi» 
Itinerary,  tom.  v.  p.  28,  29 :—"  About  a  mile  of  is  Port  Mawre,  where 
is  a  great  sande  with  a  shorte  estuary  into  the  lande.  And  ?iim  say 
that  there  hath  beene  a  castel  at  or  aboute  Port  Mawr,  but  the  token» 
be  not  very  evidente." 

*  Rhyd-helyg,  or  the  Ford  of  the  Willow. — I  imagine  tai-»  pW*  IB 
Walford  in  Herefordshu-e,  near  the  banks  of  the  river  Wye. 


ANCIENT    DITISION    OF    WALES.  479 

ana  marshes  ;  insomucli  that  from  the  time  the  Saxons  took 
possession  of  the  island  the  remnants  of  the  Britons,  re- 
tiring into  these  regions,  could  never  be  entirely  subdued 
either  by  the  English  or  by  the  Normans.  Those  who  inha- 
bited the  southern  angle  of  the  island,  which  took  its  name 
from  the  chieftain  CorinsDus,^  made  less  resistance,  as  their 
country  was  more  defenceless.  The  third  division  of  the 
Britons,  who  obtained  a  part  of  Britany  in  Gaul,  were 
transported  thither,  not  after  the  defeat  of  their  nation,  but 
long  before,  by  king  Maximus,  and,  in  consequence  of  the 
hard  and  continued  warfare  which  they  underwent  with 
him,  were  rewarded  by  the  royal  munificence  with  those 
districts  in  France. 

CHAPTER  II. 

OF  THE  ANCIENT  DIYISION  OF  WALES  INTO  IHEEE  PAETS. 

"Wales  was  in  ancient  times  divided  into  three  parts  nearly 
equal,  consideration  having  been  paid,  in  this  division,  more  to 
the  value  than  to  the  just  quantity  or  proportion  of  territory. 
They  were  Yenedotia,  now  called  North  Wales  ;  Demetia,  or 
South  "Wales,  which  in  British  is  called  Deheubarth,  that  is, 
the  southern  part ;  and  Powys,  the  middle  or  eastern  district. 
Roderic  the  Grreat,  or  Bhodri  Mawr,  who  was  king  over  all 
Wales,  was  the  cause  of  this  division.^     He  had  three  sons, 

1  Corinseus. — Brutus,  according  to  the  fable,  in  his  way  to  Britain, 
met  with  a  company  of  Trojans,  who  had  fled  from  Troy  with  Antenor 
and  Corinseus  at  their  head,  who  submitted  themselves  to  Brutus,  and 
joined  his  company ;  which  Corinseus,  being  a  very  vahant  man,  ren- 
dered great  service  to  Brutus  during  his  wars  in  Gaul  and  Britain  ;  in 
return  for  which,  Brutus,  having  subdued  the  island,  and  divided  it 
amongst  his  people,  gave  Cornwall  to  Corinseus,  who,  as  it  is  said,  called 
it  after  his  own  name,  Cemyw, 

^  Although  it  is  the  opinion  of  most  writers,  that  Eoderic  the  Q-reat 
was  the  first  person  who  divided  the  kingdom  of  Wales  into  three  pro- 
vinces, which  he  distributed  to  his  three  sons,  I  shall  prove,  from  ancient 
a  ithorities,  that  long  before  the  destruction  of  Britain  it  was  so  divided. 
There  is  extant  a  very  old  treatise  on  the  British  laws,  which  testifies 
Jjhat  after  the  death  of  Yortipor  the  inhabitants  of  Yenedotia,  Powys, 
and  Demetia  assembled  together,  for  the  purpose  of  electing  a  new  king, 
and  that  they  elected  Maelgwn,  king  of  North  Wales,  to  be  their  sove- 
reign. And  the  British  histories  also  testify  that  Morgan,  king  of 
Demetia,  or  West  Wales,  Cadvan,  king  of  Yenedotia,  or  North  Whales, 


4S0  DESCRIPTION   OP   WALES. 

Mervin,  Anjirawt,  and  Cadelh,  amongst  whom  he  partitioned 
the  whole  pi"Jicip?.lity.  North  Wales  fell  to  the  lot  of 
Mervin ;  Vc\7j9  to  Anarawt ;  and  Cadelh  received  the  por- 
tion of  South  Waie»,  together  with  the  general  good  wishes 
of  his  broU'eifl  and  the  people ;  for  although  this  district 
greatly  exceeded  the  others  in  quantity,  it  was  the  least 
desirable  from  the  number  of  noble  chiefs,  or  Uchelwyr,^ 
men  of  a  superior  rank,  who  inhabited  it,  and  were  often 
rebellious  to  their  lords,  and  impatient  of  control.  But 
CadoJb,  on  the  death  of  his  brothers,  obtained  the  entire 
dominion  of  Wales,'^  as  did  his  successors  till  the  time  of 
Theodor,  whose  descendants,  Ehys,  son  of  Theodor,  Grruf- 
fydh,  son  of  Khys,  and  Ehys,  son  of  Grufiydh,  the  ruling 
prince  in  our  time,  enjoyed  only  (like  the  father)  the  sove- 
reignty over  South  Wales. 

CHAPTER  in. 

GENEALOaX   OF   THE    PEINCES    OE   WALES. 

The  following  is  the  generation  of  princes  of  South  Wales : 
Ehys,  son  of  G-ruffydh ;  GrrufFydh,  son  of  Ehys ;  Ehys,  son 
of  Theodor ;  Theodor,  son  of  Eineon ;  Eineon,  son  of  Owen ; 
Owen,  son  of  Howel  Dha,  or  Howel  the  Grood ;  Howel,  son  of 
Cadelh,  son  of  Eoderic  the  G-reat.  Thus  the  princes  of  South 
Wales  derived  their  origin  from  Cadelh,  son  of  Eoderic  the 
Great.  The  princes  of  North  Wales  descended  from  Mer- 
vin in  this  manner :  Lhewelyn,  son  of  Jorwerth  ;  Jorwerth, 
B(m  of  Owen  ;  Owen,  son  of  Gruffydh  ;  Gruffydh,  son  of  Co- 
nan  ;  Conan,  son  of  Jago;  Jago,  son  of  Edoual ;  Edoual,  son  of 
M  eyrie  ;  Meyric,son  of  Anarawt  (Anandhrec) ;  Anarawt,  son 

and  Eledrjck,  king  of  Cornwall,  came  to  the  assistance  of  Brochmael, 
king  of  Powys  and  earl  of  Chester,  against  Ethelfred,  king  of  Northum- 
berlsjid,  whom  they  defeated  in  a  bloody  battle  at  Bangor,  in  Fhntshire, 
upon  wliich  Cadvan  was  unanimously  proclaimed  king  of  Britain.  All 
these  things  happened  long  before  the  birth  of  Roderic,  wlio  cannot, 
therefore,  be  said  to  have  been  the  first  author  of  these  three  divisions 
of  Wales.  This  note,  given  by  the  annotator,  Dr.  Powel,  to  the  Latin 
edition  of  Giraldus,  is  in  a  great  measure  corroborated  by  Lewis  in  his 
ancient  history  of  Britain,  and  Humphrey  Lhwyd  in  his  Breviary, 

'  Uchelwyr,  so  called  from  Uchel,  high,  and  gn^r,  a  man. 

'  This  assertion  is  unfounded,  if  we  give  credit  to  the  Welsh  Chronicle 
which  dates  the  death  of  Cadelh  in  907,  and  that  of  Anarawdin  in  913. 


CANTEEDS,  BOTAL  PALACES,  CATHEDEALS.     4>>i 

of  Mervin,  son  of  Eoderic  the  Great.  Anarawt  leaving  rio 
j?(sue,  the  princes  of  Powjs  have  their  own  particular  do 
Bcent. 

It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  the  Welsh  bards  and  singers, 
or  reciters,  have  the  genealogies  of  the  aforesaid  princes, 
written  in  the  "Welsh  language,  in  their  ancient  and  authentic 
books  ;  and  also  retain  them  in  their  memory  from  Roderic 
the  Grreat  to  B.  M.  ;^  and  from  thence  to  Sylvius,  Ascanius, 
and  -^neas ;  and  from  the  latter  produce  the  genealogical 
series  in  a  lineal  descent,  even  to  Adam. 

But  as  an  account  of  such  long  and  remote  genealogies 
may  appear  to  many  persons  trifling  rather  than  historical, 
we  have  purposely  omitted  them  in  our  compendium. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

HOW  MANY  CAFTEEDS,  EOTAL  PALACES,  AND  CATHEDEALS 
THEEE  AEE  IN  WALES. 

South  "Wales  contains  twenty-nine  cantreds ;  North  "Wales, 
twelve ;  Powys,  six :  many  of  which  are  at  this  time  in  the 
possession  of  the  English  and  Pranks.  Por  the  country  now 
called  Shropshire  formerly  belonged  to  Powys,  and  the 
place  where  the  castle  of  Shrewsbury  stands  bore  the  name 
of  Pengwern,  or  the  head  of  the  Alder  Grove.  There  were 
three  royal  seats  in  South  "Wales  :  Dinevor,-  in  South  Wales, 
removed  from  Caerleon  ;  Aberfraw,^  in  North  Wales  ;  and 
Pengwern/  in  Powys.^ 

^  B.M. — This  abbreviation,  which  in  every  manuscript  I  have  seen 
of  Giraldus  has  been  construed  into  Beatam  Mariam,  and  in  many  of 
them  is  written  Beatam  Virginem^  may  with  much  greater  propriety  be 
applied  to  Belinus  Magnus^  or  Beli  the  Great,  a  distinguished  British 
king,  to  whom  most  of  the  British  pedigrees  ascended  ;  and  because  his 
name  occurred  so  frequently  in  them  it  was  often  written  short,  B.M., 
which  some  men,  by  mistake,  interpreted  Beata  MaiHa. — {Sir  R.  C.  H.) 

*  See,  for  an  account  of  Dinevor,  the  Itinerary,  Book  i.  c  10. 

^  Aberfrawj  a  small  town  at  the  conflux  of  the  river  Fraw  and  the 
sea,  on  the  S.W.  part  of  the  isle  of  Anglesey,  and  twelve  miles  S  E.  of 
Holyhead.  It  was  formerly  a  considerable  place,  and  noted  for  having 
been  the  residence  of  eleven  princes  of  North  Wales. 

*  The  Welsh  Chronicle  informs  us,  that  upon  the  making  of  Offa's 
dyke,  A.D.  795,  "  the  seate  of  the  kings  of  Powys  was  translated  from 
Pengwern,  now  called  Salop,  to  Mathravel,  where  it  continued  long 
ftfter."    The  ancient  British  name  of  Shrewsbury  was  Pengwern,  that 

I  I 


i.S2  DESCEIPTION    or    WALES. 

Wales  contains  in  all  fifty -four  cantreds.  The  word  Cantref 
is  derived  from  Cant,  a  hundred,  and  Tref,  a  village  ;  and 
means  in  the  British  and  Irish  languages  such  a  portion  of 
land  as  contains  a  hundred  vills. 

There  are  four  cathedral  churches  in  "Wales  :  St.  David's, 
upon  the  Irish  sea,  David  the  archbishop  being  its  patron : 
it  was  in  ancient  times  the  metropolitan  church,  and  the 
district  once  contained  twenty-four  cantreds,  though  at  this 
time  only  twenty-three ;  for  Ergengl,  in  English  called 
Urchenfeld,^  is  said  to  have  been  formerly  within  the  diocese 
of  St.  David's,  and  sometimes  was  placed  within  that  of 
LandafF.     The  see  of  St.  David's  had  twenty-five  successive 

is,  the  head  of  the  alder  grove ;  and  derived,  perhaps,  from  its  wooded 
situation  : 

Edita  Pengwemi  late  fastigia  splendent, 
TJrbs  sita  lunato  veluti  mediamnis  in  orbe, 

Colle  tumet  modico,  duplici  quoque  ponte  superbit, 

Accipiens  patria  sibi  lingua  nomen  ab  alnis. 

A  raised  mound  of  earth,  and  some  indistinct  traces  of  walls,  mark  the 
site  of  this  castle  of  Mathraval  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Yyrnwy. 

5  Powys. — The  ancient  boundaries  of  the  principaHty  of  Powys  have 
been  thus  ascertained  in  the  "Welsh  Chronicle  :  "  Powys,  before  king 
Oifa's  time,  reached  eastward  to  the  rivers  Dee  and  Severn,  with  a 
right  line  from  the  end  of  Broxen  hills  to  Salop,  with  all  the  country 
between  Wye  and  Severn,  whereof  Brochwel  Yscithroc  was  possessed  j 
but  after  the  making  of  Offa's  dyke,  the  plain  country  toward  Salop 
being  inhabited  by  Saxons  and  Normans,  the  length  of  Powys  extended 
from  Pulford  bridge  north-east,  to  the  confines  of  Cardiganshire  in  the 
parish  of  Llanguric,  in  the  south-west ;  and  the  breadth,  from  the  far- 
thest part  of  Cy  veiliog  westward  to  EDesmere  on  the  east."  Leiand  in 
his  Itinerary,  tom.  v.  fol.  29,  gives  the  following  account  of  this  princi- 
paHty :  "  Powis  borderithe  one  way  upon  North  Wales  in  Merionethe- 
shire,  as  concerninge  the  limits  of  CaveUoc  (Cy  veiHog)  lordshipe,  and  is 
in  lengthe  by  gesse  a  xx  miles.  For  it  is  xvi  miles  betwixt  Cairllews 
(Caersws)  and  Mahen  Cliff'  (Machynlleth),  and  at  the  ends  of  eche  of 
thes  places  it  extendith  somewhat  from  the  townes  .     .     .  Low  Powis 

is  in  lengthe  from  Buttington  bridge a  2  miles  from  the 

Walehe  Poole  (Welsh-pool)  toward  Shrobbesbii-i  (Shrewsbury)  unto 
above  ....  In  all  Hy  Powis  is  not  one  castle  that  evidently 
^perithe  by  manifest  ruins  of  waulls  ;  and  they  wer  wont  to  bringe  in 
tymes  past,  in  the  old  lord  Duddleys  dayes,  theyr  prisoners  to  Walehe- 
poole ;  and  in  Low  Powis  is  but  onely  the  castle  of  the  Walche-poole.' 

6  A  great  lordship  in  Herefordshire,  including  the  district  betweoi 
Herelord  aaid  Monmouth,  bordering  on  the  river  Wye. 


MOUNTAINS    AND    EIVEES.  483 

archbishops ;  and  from  the  time  of  the  removal  of  the  pall 
into  France,  to  this  day,  twenty-two  bishops ;  whose  names 
and  series,  as  well  as  the  cause  of  the  removal  of  the  archie- 
piscopal  pall,  may  be  seen  in  our  Itinerary.^ 

In  South  Wales  also  is  situated  the  bishopric  of  Landaff, 
near  the  Severn  sea,  and  near  the  noble  castle  of  Caerdyf ; 
bishop  Teilo  being  its  patron.  It  contains  five  cantreds,  and 
the  fourth  part  of  another,  namely,  Senghennyd. 

In  North  Wales,  between  Anglesey  and  the  Eryri  moun- 
tains, is  the  see  of  Bangor,  under  the  patronage  of  Daniel, 
the  abbot ;  it  contains  about  nine  cantreds. 

In  North  Wales  also  is  the  poor  little  cathedral  of  Llan- 
Elwy,  or  St.  Asaph,  containing  about  six  cantreds,  to  which 
Powys  is  subject. 

CHAPTEE  Y. 

OF    THE    TWO    MOUNTAINS  THOM  WHICH  THE  NOBLE  RIYEBS 
WHICH   DIVIDE    WALES    SPRING. 

Wales  is  divided  and  distinguished  by  noble  rivers, 
which  derive  their  source  from  two  ranges  of  mountains, 
the  Ellennith,  in  South  Wales,  which  the  English  call 
Moruge,  as  being  the  heads  of  moors,  or  bogs  ;  and  Eryri, 
in  North  Wales,  which  they  call  Snowdon,  or  moun- 
tains of  snow;  the  latter  of  which  are  said  to  be  of  so 
great  an  extent,  that  if  all  the  herds  in  Wales  were  col- 
lected together,  they  would  supply  them  with  pasture  for  a 
considerable  time.  Upon  them  are  two  lakes,  one  of  which 
has  a  floating  island ;  and  the  other  contains  fish  having 
only  one  eye,  as  we  have  related  in  our  Itinerary. 

We  must  also  here  remark,  that  at  two  places  in  Scotland, 
one  on  the  eastern,  and  the  other  on  the  western  ocean,  the 
sea-fish  called  mulvelli  (mullets)  have  only  the  right  eye. 

The  noble  river  Severn  takes  its  rise  from  the  Ellennith 
mountains,  and  flowing  by  the  castles  of  Shrewsbury  and 
Bridgenorth,  through  the  city  of  Worcester,  and  that  of  Glou- 
cester, celebrated  for  its  iron  manufactories,  falls  into  the 
sea  a  few  miles  from  the  latter  place,  and  gives  its  name  to 
the  Severn  Sea.  This  river  was  for  many  years  the  boundary 
between  Cambria  and  Loegria,  or  Wales   and   England  ;   it 

^  Book  ii.  chapter  1 

Il2 


484  DESCEIPTION    OF    WALES. 

was  called  in  British  Hafren,  from  the  daughter  of  Loeriaus, 

who  was  drowned  in  it  by  her  step-mother ;  the  aspirate 
being  changed,  according  to  the  Latin  idiom,  into  S,  as  is 
usual  in  words  derived  from  the  Greek,  it  was  termed  Sa- 
rina,  as  hal  becomes  sal ;  hemi,  semi ;  hepta,  septem. 

The  river  Wye  rises  in  the  same  mountains  of  EUennith, 
and  flows  by  the  castles  of  Hay  and  Clifford,  through  the 
city  of  Hereford,  by  the  castles  of  Wilton  and  Goodrich, 
through  the  forest  of  Dean,  abounding  with  iron  aod  deer, 
and  proceeds  to  Strigul  castle,  below  which  it  empties  it- 
self into  the  sea,  and  forms  in  modern  times  the  boundary 
between  England  and  Wales.  The  IJsk*  does  not  derive  its 
origin  from  these  mountains,  but  from  those  of  Cantref 
Bachan  ;  it  flows  by  the  castle  of  Brecheinoc,  or  Aberhodni, 
that  is,  the  fall  of  the  river  Hodni  into  the  IJsk  (for  Aber, 
in  the  British  language,  signifies  every  place  where  two 
rivers  unite  their  streams)  ;  by  the  castles  of  Abergevenni 
and  TJsk,  through  the  ancient  city  of  Legions,  and  dis- 
charges itself  into  the  Severn  Sea,  not  far  from  Newport. 

The  river  Eemni^  flows  towards  the  sea  from  the  moun- 
tains of  Brecheinoc,  having  passed  the  castle  and  bridge  of 
Bemni.  From  the  same  range  of  mountains  springs  the 
Taf,  which  pursues  its  course  to  the  episcopal  see  of  Landaf 
(to  which  it  gives  its  name),  and  falls  into  the  sea  below  the 
castle  of  Caerdif.    The  river  Avon^  rushes  impetuously  from 

1  "  Wiske  risitli  in  Blake  Montein,  a  x  miles  above  Brekenoc  toward 
Caermadine,  and  so  rennith  thorough  the  litle  forest  and  great  forest  of 
Brekenok,  and  so  cummith  thorough  Redbrynu  (Rhyd-y-briw)  bridge, 
to  Bi-ekenok,  to- Aberconureg,  a  maner  place  of  the  Aubres,  to  Penkethle, 
to  Creghoel,  to  Abregeveni,  to  Uske,  Caerleon,  Newport."— Z,e/awd,  Itin. 
torn.  V.  p.  76. 

•'  The  place  wher  the  river  of  Wiske  doth  springe,  as  owt  of  a  fontaine 
or  welle,  is  caulhd  Blainwiske."— //S^it/.  p.  76. 

2  "  The  hedde  of  Remney  river  is  yn  the  hilles  of  High  Wenceland  : 
thens  cumme  many  springes,  and  takmg  one  bottom ;  .  .  .  and  thena 
going  into  Diffrin  Risca  (the  vale  of  the  river  Risca,)  it  is  augrrentid 
with  Risca,  a  brooke  cumming  ynto  it  out  of  a  paroche  caidlid  Egglins- 
islan  (Eglwysilan,)  and  then  doth  it  al  here  the  name  of  Risca  :  and 
(•umn>ing  to  Bedwes  paroche  it  is  caullid  Remny,  and  by  the  same  name 
into  the  Severne  Se." — Leland,  Itin.  tom  iv.  p.  34. 

3  "  Avon  ry  ver  cum  of  2  armes,  wherof  that  that  lyith  north-est  is 
caullid   A^on  Yawr,  and  that  that  lyith  north-west  la  caullid  Avon 


RIVERS.  485 

the  mountains  of  Grlamorgan,  between  the  celebrated  Cis- 
tercian monasteries  of  Margan  and  Neth ;  and  the  river 
Neth,  descending  from  the  mountains  of  Brecheinoc,  unites 
itself  with  the  sea,  at  no  great  distance  from  the  castle  of 
Neth  ;  each  of  these  rivers  forming  a  long  tract  of  danger- 
ous quicksands.  From  the  same  mountains  of  Brecheinoc 
the  river  Tawe  flows  down  to  Abertawe,  called  in  English 
Swainsey.  The  Lochor^  joins  the  sea  near  the  castle  of  the 
same  name ;  and  the  Wendraeth^  has  its  confluence  near 
Cydweli.  The  Tywj,^  another  noble  river,  rises  in  the 
Ellennith  mountains,  and  separating  the  Cantref  Mawr  from 
the  Cantref  Bachan,  passes  by  the  castle  of  Lhanymdhyfri, 
and  the  royal  palace  and  castle  of  Dinevor,  strongly  situated 
in  the  deep  recesses  of  its  woods,  by  the  noble  castle  of 
Caermardhin,  w^here  Merlin  was  found,  and  from  whom  the 
city  received  its  name,  and  runs  into  the  sea  near  the  castle  of 
Lhanstephan.  The  river  Taf*  rises  in  the  Presseleu  moun- 
tains, not  far  from  the  monastery  of  TVTiitland,  and  passing 

Vehan.  They  mete  togither  at  Lanviliengle,  about  a  2  miles  above 
Aberauson  ( Aberavon)  village.  From  the  mouth  of  Avon  to  the  moutli 
of  Avon  ryver  is  aboute  a  2  miles  and  a  half  al  by  love  shore,  shokid 
with  Severn  sandes  and  sum  morisch  groundes." — Ltland,  Itin.  tom.  iv. 
p.  50. 

1  "  Lochor  river  partith  KidweUi  from  West  Gower  lande." — Ibid. 
tom.  V.  p.  23. 

2  The  course  of  the  G-wendraeth  Yawr  and  Vychan  have  been  given 
in  the  Notes  on  the  ninth  chapter  of  the  Itinerary. 

3  "  Towe  (the  Tywy  of  Giraldus)  risith  llll  myles  by  south  from  Llyn- 
tyve  (the  lake  of  Tyve)  in  a  morisch  ground,  and  hath  no  llyn  at  his 
hedd,  and  by  estimation  rennith  a  xxil  miles  or  he  cum  to  Llananide- 
very  (Llandovery).  He  first  rennith  sumwhat  by  soutli,  and  then  a 
greate  way  by  west,  and  at  last  turneth  againe  toward  south." — Lelund^ 
Itin.  tom.  V.  p.  87.  And  in  another  place,  the  same  author,  speaking 
of  this  river,  says,  "  The  hed  of  Tewe  (Towy)  ryver  cumynge  to  Cair- 
marden,  is  in  a  forrest  woode  caullyd  Bysshopps  Forest,  about  a  xxiiil 
myles  from  Cairmarden,  and  the  hed  of  this  ryver  is  almoste  in  the 
midle  waye  betwixt  Llandewy  streme  and  Llancanery  (Llandovery) 
castle." 

*  "  Tava  risitli  in  the  mountains  of  Presseleu,  not  far  from  Teguin  ar 
Tave  (Ty  Gwin  ar  Tave,  or  the  white  house  on  the  Tave,)  by  the  which 
it  cummith,  and  so  by  S.  Clares,  and  not  far  from  Abercorran  and  Tala- 
charne  it  goith  into  the  se.  I  herd  one  that  it  risith  in  a  montaine 
caullid  Wrenne  Vawr  (Yrenny  Vawr)  a  im  myles  from  Caerdigtuc 
(Cardigan)."— Z<?Za«c?,  Itin.  tom.  v  p.  22. 


486  DESCEIPTION   OF   WALES. 

by  tlie  castle  of  St.  Clare,  falls  into  the  sea  near  Abercorran 
and  Talacharn.  From  the  same  mountains  flow  the  rivers 
Cledheu,  encompassing  the  province  of  Daugledheu,  and 
giving  it  their  name ;  one  passes  by  the  castle  of  Lahaden, 
and  the  other  by  Haverford,  to  the  sea ;  and  in  the  British 
language  they  bear  the  name  of  Daugledheu,  or  two  swords. 

The  noble  river  Teivi^  springs  from  the  Ellennith  moun- 
tains, in  the  upper  part  of  the  Cantref  Mawr  and  Caerdigan, 
not  far  from  the  pastures  and  excellent  monastery  of  Stratflur, 
forming  a  boundary  between  Demetia  and  Caerdigan  down 
to  the  Irish  channel ;  this  is  the  only  river  in  Wales  that 
produces  beavers,  an  account  of  which  is  given  in  our  Itin- 
erary ;  and  also  exceeds  every  other  river  in  the  abundance 
and  delicacy  of  its  salmon.  But  as  this  book  may  fall  into 
the  hands  of  many  persons  who  will  not  meet  with  the 
other,  I  have  thought  it  right  here  to  insert  many  curious 
and  particular  qualities  relating  to  the  nature  of  these  ani- 
mals, how  they  convey  their  materials  from  the  woods  to 
the  river,  with  what  skill  they  employ  these  materials  in  con- 
structing places  of  safety  in  the  middle  of  the  stream,  how 
artfully  they  defend  themselves  against  the  attack  of  the 
hunters  on  the  eastern  and  how  on  the  western  side  ;  the  sin- 
gularity of  their  tails,  which  partake  more  of  the  nature  ot 
fish  than  flesh.     For  further  particulars  see  the  Itinerary." 

From  the  same  mountains  issues  the  Tstuyth,'  and  flow- 

^  "  There  ia  a  llyn  a  iiii  miles  from  Stratflure,  caullyd  Llin  Tyve. 
about  ....  in  bredthe.  Tyve  cimimithe  out  of  this  poole,  so  to 
Stratflure  abbay,  and  there  aboute  eummithe  in  Q-lesrode  burne  sum- 
what  benethe  the  abbay.  Glesrode  risethe  a  3  miles  from  Stratflure  in 
the  mountaynes  in  the  hy  way  toward  Buelthe.  Tyve  or  ever  he  cum 
to  Stratflure  takethe  but  a  lytle  botom,  but  fletithe  and  ragith  upon 
stones,  as  Glesrode  dothe.  And  or  Tyve  cum  to  Stratflure,  he  resei- 
vithe  a  litle  brooke  caullyd  LHnhiglande.  Glesrode  some  tyme  so  ra- 
geth  that  he  carriethe  stones  from  these  placis.  Tyve  goithe  from 
Stratflure  to  Tregaron,  a  village  a  iiii  miles  on  the  hither  side,  and  this 
commithe  in  anothar  brooke  caullid  Crose,  that  within  a  litle  goithe 
into  Tyve." — Leland,  llin.  tom  vii. 

2  Our  author  seems  at  first  to  have  intended  giving  a  repetition  of 
the  history  of  the  beaver  in  this  Description  of  Wales,  being  a  separate 
work  from  the  Itinerary  ;  but  he  afterwards  alters  his  mind,  and  refers 
the  reader  for  an  account  of  it  to  the  Itinerary,     Book  ii.  c.  4. 

^  "  Ustwith  risith  owt  of  a  moorish  grounde  caullid  Blaene  Ustwith, 
III  miles  from  Llangibike  on  Wy  (Llangurig)  ;  it  is  in  Comeustwitlj. 


EIVERS    OF    WALES.  487 

ing  througli  the  upper  parts  of  Penwedic,  in  Cardiganshire, 
falls  into  the  sea  near  the  castle  of  Aberj'stuyth.  Prom 
the  snowy  mountains  of  Eryri  flows  tbe  noble  river  Devi,* 
dividing  for  a  great  distance  North  and  South  Wales  ;  and 
from  the  same  mountains  also  the  large  river  Mawr,-  forming 
by  its  course  the  greater  and  smaller  tract  of  sands  called 
the  Traeth  Mawr  and  the  Traeth  Bachan.  The  Dissennith 
also,  and  the  Arthro,  flow  through  Merionethshire  and  the 
land  of  Conan.  The  Conwy ,^  springing  from  the  northern 
side  of  the  Eryri  mountains,  unites  its  waters  with  the  sea 
under  the  noble  castle  of  Deganwy.    The  Cloyd*  rises  from 

(Cwmystwyth),  and  so  rennith  good  vi  miles  thoroiagh  Comeustwith, 
and  a  vi  or  vii  mo  miles  to  Abreustwith." — Leland,  Itin  torn.  v.  p.  87. 

^  If  by  the  mountains  of  Eryri  we  are  to  understand  the  Snowdonian 
range  of  hills,  our  author  has  not  been  quite  accurate  in  fixing  the 
source  of  the  river  Dovy,  which  rises  between  Dynas-y-mowddu  and 
Bala  Lake,  to  the  southward  of  Mount  Arran  :  from  whence  it  pursues 
its  course  to  Mallwyd,  and  Machynlleth,  below  which  place  it  becomes 
an  sestuary,  and  the  boundary  between  North  and  South  Wales. 

"^  Our  author  is  again  incorrect  in  stating  that  the  river  Maw  forms, 
by  its  course,  the  two  tracts  of  sands  called  Traeth  Mawr  and  Traeth 
Bychan.  This  river,  from  which  Barmouth  derives  the  name  of  Aber- 
maw,  and  to  which  Griraldus,  in  the  fifth  chapter  of  the  second  book  of 
his  Itinerary,  has  given  the  epithet  of  bifurcus,  runs  far  to  the  south- 
ward of  either  of  the  Traeths.  The  Traeth  Mawr,  or  large  sands,  are 
formed  by  the  impetuous  torrents  which  descend  from  Snowdon  by 
Beddgelert,  and  pass  under  the  Devil's  Bridge  at  Pont  Aberglasllyn,  so 
called  from  the  river  Glasllyn ;  and  the  Traeth  Bychan,  or  little  sands, 
are  formed  by  numerous  streams  which  unite  themselves  in  the  vale  of 
Festiniog,  and  become  an  sestuary  near  the  village  of  Maentwrog. 

3  The  Conway  derives  its  principal  source  from  a  very  large  lake,  called 
Llin  Conway,  (second  in  size  to  that  of  Bala,)  situated  on  a  dreary  and 
boggy  moor,  and  abounding  in  delicious  trout ;  it  pursues  its  course  by 
Yspytty  Evan  and  Bettws  y  Coed  to  Llanrwst,  forming  many  precipi- 
tous cataracts,  and  adding  fresh  charms  to  the  picturesque  scenery, 
which  nature,  in  the  disposition  of  her  hills,  and  art,  in  the  construc- 
tion of  her  bridges,  have  abundantly  supplied  in  this  tract  of  country. 
A  little  below  Llanrwst  it  becomes  a  tide  river,  and  passing  under  the 
neglected  walls  of  the  Koman  Conovium,  and  the  once  sequestered  Cis- 
tercian abbey  at  Maenan,  flows  tranquilly  down  to  ('onway. 

*  The  river  Clwyd  rises  at  a  very  considerable  distance  from  the  place 
assigned  to  it  by  G-iraldus  :  it  flows  by  Ruthin,  and  east  of  Denbigli, 
to  St.  Asaph  ;  from  whence,  with  the  united  streams  of  the  Elwy,  it 
continues  its  course  to  Kuthlan,  where  it  becomes  a  tide  river;  giving 
a  name  to  the  rich  and  fertile  Vale  of  Clwyd. 


488  DESCEIPTIOK    OF   WALES. 

another  side  of  the  same  mountain,  and  passes  by  the  castle 
of  Ruthlan  to  the  sea.  The  Doverdwy,  called  by  the  English 
Dee/  draws  its  source  from  the  lake  of  Penmelesmere,  and 
runs  through  Chester,  leaving  the  wood  of  Coleshulle,  Bas- 
inwerk,  and  a  rich  vein  of  silver  in  its  neighbourhood,  far  to 
the  right,  and  by  the  influx  of  the  sea  forming  a  very 
dangerous  quicksand  ;  thus  the  Dee  makes  the  northern,  and 
the  river  Wye  the  southern  boundary  of  Wales. 

CHAPTER  yi. 

CONCEEIflN^G    THE    PLEASANTNESS    AND    PEETILITT    OP 
WALES. 

As  the  southern  part  of  Wales  near  Cardiganshire,  but 
particularly  Pembrokeshire,  is  much  pleasanter,  on  account  of 
its  plains  and  sea-coast,  so  North  Wales  is  better  defended  by 
nature,  is  more  productive  of  men  distinguished  for  bodily 
strength,  and  more  fertile  in  the  nature  of  its  soil ;  for,  as 
the  mountains  of  Eryri  (Snowdon)  could  supply  pasturage 
for  all  the  herds  of  cattle  in  Wales,  if  collected  together,  so 
could  the  Isle  of  Mona  (Anglesey)  provide  a  requisite 
quantity  of  corn  for  all  the  inhabitants :  on  which  account 
there  is  an  old  British  proverb,  "  Man  mam  Cyynbry,''  that 
is,  "  Mona  is  the  mother  of  Wales'"  Merionyth,  and  the 
land  of  Conan,  is  the  rudest  and  least  cultivated  region, 
and  the  least  accessible.  The  natives  of  that  part  of  Wales 
excel  in  the  use  of  long  lances,  as  those  of  Monmouthshire 
are  distinguished  for  their  management  of  the  bow.  It  is 
to  be  observed,  that  the  British  language  is  more  delicate 
and  richer  in  North  Wales,  that  country  being  less  inter- 
mixed with  foreigners.  Many,  however,  assert  that  the  lan- 
guage of  Cardiganshire,  in  South  Wales,  placed  as  it  were 
in  the  middle  and  heart  of  Cambria,  is  the  most  refined. 

The  people  of  Cornwall  and  the  Armoricans  speak  a  lan- 
guage similar  to  that  of  the  Britons  ;  and  from  its  origin  and 
near  resemblance,  it  is  intelligible  to  the  Welsh  in  many 
instances,  and  almost  in  all ;  and  although  less  delicate  and 
methodical,  yet  it  approaches,  as  I  judge,  more  to  the  ancient 

^  The  primary  source  of  '^he  river  Dee  is  in  the  valley  leading  from 
Dolf^elly  to  Bala,  from  which  place  it  flows  through  the  beautiful  Val« 
of  Edeyrnion  to  Llangollen,  Overton,  Bangor,  and  Chester. 


OEIGIN    OF    THE    NAMES    CAMBRIA    AND    WALES.        4S9 

British  idiom.  As  in  the  southern  parts  of  England,  and  par- 
ticularly in  Devonshire,  the  English  language  seems  less 
agreeable,  yet  it  bears  more  marks  of  antiquity  (the  northern 
parts  being  much  corrupted  by  the  irruptions  of  the  Danes 
and  Norwegians),  and  adheres  more  strictly  to  the  original 
language  and  ancient  mode  of  speaking ;  a  positive  proof 
of  which  may  be  deduced  from  all  the  English  works  of 
Bede,  E-habanus,  and  king  Alfred,  being  written  according  to 
this  idiom. 

CHAPTEE  YII. 

OEIGIN    or    THE    NAMES    CAMBEIA   ANT)    WALES. 

Cambria  was  so  called  from  Camber,  son  of  Brutus ;  for 
Brutus,  descending  from  the  Trojans,  by  his  grandfather, 
Ascanius,  and  father,  Silvius,  led  the  remnant  of  the  Tro- 
jans, who  had  long  been  detained  in  Greece,  into  this  wes- 
tern isle ;  and  having  reigned  many  years,  and  given  his 
name  to  the  country  and  people,  at  his  death  divided  the 
kingdom  of  "Wales  between  his  three  sons.  To  his  eldest 
son,  Locrinus,  he  gave  that  part  of  the  island  which  lies 
between  the  rivers  Humber  and  Severn,  and  which  from 
him  was  called  Loegria.  To  his  second  son,  Albanactus,  he 
gave  the  lands  beyond  the  Humber,  which  took  from  him 
the  name  of  Albania.  But  to  his  youngest  son,  Camber, 
he  bequeathed  all  that  region  which  lies  beyond  the  Severn, 
and  is  called  after  him  Cambria  ;  hence  the  country  is  pro- 
perly and  truly  called  Cambria,  and  its  inhabitants  Cam- 
brians, or  Cambrenses.  Some  assert  that  their  name  was 
derived  from  Cam  and  Grceco,  that  is,  distorted  Greek,  on 
account  of  the  affinity  of  their  languages,  contracted  by 
their  long  residence  in  Greece  ;  but  this  conjecture,  though 
plausible,  is  not  well  founded  on  truth. 

The  name  of  Wales  was  not  derived  from  Wallo,  a  ge- 
neral, or  Wandolena,  the  queen,  as  the  fabulous  history  of 
Geoffrey  Arthurius'  falsely  maintains,  because  neither  of 
these  personages  are  to  be  found  amongst  the  Welsh ;  but 
it  arose  from  a  barbarian  appellation.  The  Saxons,  when 
they  seized  upon  Britain,  called  this  nation,  as  they  did  ali 

'   Better  known  as  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth. 


490  DESCBIPTION   OF   WALES. 

foreigners,  Wallenses ;  and  thus  the  barbarous  name  re- 
mains to  the  people  and  their  country.^ 

Having  discoursed  upon  the  quality  and  quantity  of  the 
land,  the  genealogies  of  the  princes,  the  sources  of  the  rivers, 
and  the  derivation  of  the  names  of  this  country,  we  shall 
now  consider  the  nature  and  character  of  the  nation. 

CHAPTEE  YIII. 

CONCEENIT^a   THE    NATUEE,    MAIfNEES,    AND    DEESS,    THE 
BOLDNESS,  AGILITY,  AND  COTJEAGE,  OE  THIS  NATION. 

This  people  is  light  and  active,  hardy  rather  than  strong, 
and  entirely  bred  up  to  the  use  of  arms  ;  for  not  only  the 
nobles,  but  all  the  people  are  trained  to  war,  and  when  the 
trumpet  sounds  the  alarm,  the  husbandman  rushes  as  eagerly 
from  his  plough  as  the  courtier  from  his  court ;  for  here  it 
is  not  found  that,  as  in  other  places, 

"  Agricolis  labor  actus  in  orbem," 
returns ;  for  in  the  months  of  March  and  April  only  the 
soil  is  once  ploughed  for  oats,  and  again  in  the  summer  a 
third  time,  and  in  winter  for  wheat.  Almost  all  the  people 
live  upon  the  produce  of  their  herds,  with  oats,  milk,  cheese, 
and  butter ;  eating  flesh  in  larger  proportions  than  bread. 
They  pay  no  attention  to  commerce,  shipping,  or  manufac- 
tures, and  sufler  no  interruption  but  by  martial  exercises. 
They  anxiously  study  the  defence  of  their  country  and  tlieir 
liberty ;  for  these  they  fight,  for  these  they  undergo  hard- 
ships, and  for  these  willingly  sacrifice  their  lives ;  they 
esteem  it  a  disgrace  to  die  in  bed,  an  honour  to  die  in  the 
field  of  battle ;  using  the  poet's  expression, — 

"  Procul  hinc  avertite  pacem, 
Nobilitas  cum  pace  perit." 

Nor  is  it  wonderful  if  it  degenerates,  for  the  ancestors  of 
these  men,  the  ^neadse,  rushed  to  arms  in  the  cause  of  liberty. 
It  is  remarkable  that  this  people,  though  unarmed,  dares  at- 
tack an  armed  foe ;  the  infantry  defy  the  cavalry,  and  by  their 
activity  and  courage  generally  prove  victors.  They  resemble 

'  The  Anglo-Saxons  called  the  Britons  Wealkas,  from  a -word  in  their 
own  language,  which  signified  literally  foreigners ;  and  hence  we  deme 
the  modern  name  Welsh. 


COUHAGE    OF    THE   WELSH.  491 

ID  disposition  and  situation  those  conquerors  wKom  the  poet 
Lucan  mentions : 


"  Populi  quos  despicit  Arctos, 


Felicea  errore  suo,  quos  ille  timorum 
Maximus  baud  urget  leti  metus,  inde  ruendi 
In  ferrum,  mens  prona  viris,  animseque  capaces, 
Mortis  et  ignavum  rediturse  parcere  vitse." 

They  make  use  of  light  arms,  which  do  not  impede  their 
agility,  small  coats  of  mail,  bundles  of  arrows,  and  long 
iances,  helmets  and  shields,  and  more  rarely  greaves  plated 
with  iron.  The  higher  class  go  to  battle  mounted  on  swift 
and  generous  steeds,  which  their  country  produces  ;  but  the 
greater  part  of  the  people  fight  on  foot,  on  account  of  the 
marshy  nature  and  unevenness  of  the  soil.  The  horsemen, 
as  their  situation  or  occasion  requires,  willingly  serve  as  in- 
fantry, in  attacking  or  retreating ;  and  they  either  walk 
bare-footed,  or  make  use  of  high  shoes,  roughly  constructed 
with  untanned  leather.  In  time  of  peace,  the  young  men, 
by  penetrating  the  deep  recesses  of  the  woods,  and  climbing 
the  tops  of  mountains,  learn  by  practice  to  endure  fatigue 
through  day  and  night ;  and  as  they  meditate  on  war  during 
peace,  they  acquire  the  art  of  fighting  by  accustoming  them- 
selves to  the  use  of  the  lance,  and  by  inuring  themselves  to 
hard  exercise. 

In  our  time,  king  Henry  II.,  in  reply  to  the  enquiries  of 
Emanuel,  emperor  of  Constantinople,  concerning  the  situ- 
ation, nature,  and  striking  peculiarities  of  the  British  island, 
among  other  remarkable  circumstances  mentioned  the  follow- 
ing :  "  That  in  a  certain  part  of  the  island  there  was  a  people, 
called  Welsh,  so  bold  and  ferocious,  that,  when  unarmed, 
they  did  not  fear  to  encounter  an  armed  force  ;  being  ready 
to  shed  their  blood  in  defence  of  their  country,  and  to  sacri- 
fice their  lives  for  renown  ;  which  is  the  more  surprising,  as 
the  beasts  of  the  field  over  the  whole  face  of  the  island  be- 
came gentle,  but  these  desperate  men  could  not  be  tamed. 
The  wild  animals,  and  particularly  the  stags  and  hinds,  are 
so  abundant,  owing  to  the  little  molestation  they  receive, 
that  in  our  time,  in  the  northern  parts  of  the  island  towards 
the  Peak,'  when  pursued  by  the  hounds  and  hunters,  thej 
contributed,  by  their  numbers,  to  their  own  destruction.'* 

!  The  Peak,  in  Derbyshire. 


492  DESCEIPTION   OF   WAXES. 

CHAPTEE  IX. 

or   THEIE    SOBER    SUPPER  AKD    EEUGALTTr. 

Not  addicted  to  gluttony  or  drunkenness,  this  people 
who  incur  no  expense  in  food  or  dress,  and  whose  minds  are 
always  bent  upon  the  defence  of  their  country,  and  on  the 
means  of  plunder,  are  wholly  employed  in  the  care  of  their 
horses  and  furniture.  Accustomed  to  fast  from  morning 
till  evening,  and  trusting  to  the  care  of  Providence,  they 
dedicate  the  whole  day  to  business,  and  in  the  evening  par- 
take of  a  moderate  meal ;  and  even  if  they  have  none,  or 
only  a  very  scanty  one,  they  patiently  wait  till  the  next 
evening  ;  and,  neither  deterred  by  cold  nor  hunger,  they 
employ  the  dark  and  stormy  nights  in  watching  the  hostile 
motions  of  their  enemies. 

CHAPTEE  X. 

OP   THEIR   HOSPITALITY    AND    LIBERALITY. 

No  one  of  this  nation  ever  begs,  for  the  houses  of  all  are 
common  to  all ;  and  they  consider  liberality  and  hospitality 
amongst  the  first  virtues.  So  much  does  hospitality  here 
rejoice  in  communication,  that  it  is  neither  offered  nor  re- 
quested by  travellers,  who,  on  entering  any  house,  only  de- 
liver up  their  arms.  When  water  is  offered  to  them,  if 
thev  suffer  their  feet  to  be  washed,  they  are  received  as 
guests  ;  for  the  offer  of  water  to  wash  the  feet  is  with  this 
nation  an  hospitable  invitation.  But  if  they  refuse  the 
proffered  service,  they  only  wish  for  morning  refreshment, 
not  lodging.  The  young  men  move  about  in  troops  and 
families  under  the  direction  of  a  chosen  leader.  Attached 
only  to  arms  and  ease,  and  ever  ready  to  stand  forth  in 
defence  of  their  country,  they  have  free  admittance  into 
every  house  as  if  it  were  their  own. 

Those  who  arrive  in  the  morning  are  entertained  till  even- 
ing with  the  conversation  of  young  women,  and  the  music  of 
the  harp  ;  for  each  house  has  its  young  women  and  harps 
allotted  to  this  purpose.  Two  circumstances  here  deserve 
notice :  that  as  no  nation  labours  more  under  the  vice  of 
jealousy  than  the  Irish,  so  none  is  more  free  from  it  than 
the  Welsh  :  and  in  each  family  the  art  of  playing  on  the 
harp  is  held  preferable  to  any  other  learning.  In  the  even- 
ing, when  no  mere  guests  are  expected,  the  meal  is  prepared 


DOMESTIC   LlFi:    OP   THE   WELSH.  493 

Bcciirding  to  the  number  and  dignity  of  the  persons  assem- 
bled, and  according  to  the  wealth  of  the  family  who  enter- 
tains. The  kitchen  does  not  supply  many  dishes,  nor  high- 
seasoned  incitements  to  eating.  The  house  is  not  furnished 
with  tables,  cloths,  or  napkins.  They  study  nature  more 
than  splendour,  for  which  reason,  the  guests  being  seated  in 
tiirees,  instead  of  couples  as  elsewhere,^  they  place  the  dishes 
before  them  all  at  once  upon  rushes  and  fresh  grass,  in 
large  platters  or  trenchers.  They  also  make  use  of  a  thin 
;ind  broad  cake  of  bread,  baked  every  day,  such  as  in  old 
writings  was  called  lag  ana  ;'^  and  they  sometimes  add 
eliopped  meat,  with  broth.  Such  a  repast  was  formerly 
used  by  the  noble  youth,  from  whom  this  nation  boasts  its 
descent,  and  whose  manners  it  still  partly  imitates,  according 
to  the  word  of  the  poet : 

"  Heu  !  mensas  consumimus,  inquit  lulus." 
While  the  family  is  engaged  in  waiting  on  the  guests,  the 
lost  and  hostess  stand  up,  paying  unremitting  attention  to 
every  thing,  and  take  no  food  till  all  the  company  are  satis- 
fied ;  that  in  case  of  any  deficiency,  it  may  fall  upon  them. 
A  bed  made  of  rushes,  and  covered  with  a  coarse  kind  of 
cloth  manufactured  in  the  country,  called  hrychan^  is  then 
placed  along  the  side  of  the  room,  and  they  all  in  common 
lie  down  to  sleep ;  nor  is  their  dress  at  night  diff'erent  from 
that  by  day,  for  at  all  seasons  they  defend  themselves  from 
the  cold  only  by  a  thin  cloak  and  tunic.  The  fire  con- 
tinues to  burn  by  night  as  well  as  by  day,  at  their  feet,  and 

'  Sir  E.  C  Hoare  has  altogether  misunderstood  the  original  here. 
It  was  the  custom  in  the  middle  ages  to  place  tlie  guests  at  table  in 
pairs,  and  each  two  persons  ate  out  of  one  plate.  Each  couple  was  a 
mess.  At  a  later  period,  among  the  great  the  mess  consisted  of  four 
persons  ;  but  it  appears  that  in  Wales,  at  this  time,  it  was  formed  of 
three  guests. 

2  "  Bread,  called  Lagana^  was,  I  suppose,  the  sort  of  household  bread, 
or  thin  cake  baked  on  an  iron  plate,  called  a  griddle  {yradelT),  still 
common  in  Caermarthen shire,  and  called  Bara  Llech  and  Bara  Llechan^ 
or  griddle  bread,  from  being  so  baked." — Owen.  ''  Laganum^  a  fritter  or 
pancake,  Baranyiod." — Hnyd,  Archaiology,  p.  75. 

3  Brychan,  in  Lhuyd's  Archaiology  and  Cornish  Grammar,  is  spelt 
Bryccan,  and  interpreted  a  blanket.  In  Bullet's  Celtic  Dictionary,  I  also 
find  this  word  Brychan  thus  explained,  and  corresponding  with  the 
sense  in  which  Giraldus  has  used  it,  viz. :  "  Natte  de  jonc  ou  de  paiUe, 
ee  sur  quoi  I'on  se  couche  ;  drap  rude  sur  lequel  couchent  les  GaUoia, 
oouverture  de  lit,"  &c. 


494  DESCillPHON    OF    WALES. 

they  receive  much  comfort  from  the  natural  heat  of  the  per- 
Bons  lying  near  them ;  but  when  the  under  side  begins  tc 
be  tired  with  the  hardness  of  the  bed,  or  the  upper  one  to 
suffer  from  cold,  they  immediately  leap  up,  and  go  to  the 
fire,  which  soon  relieves  them  from  both  inconveniences  ;  and 
then  returning  to  their  couch,  they  expose  alternately  their 
sides  to  the  cold,  and  to  the  hardness  of  the  bed. 

CHAPTER  XI. 

CONCEENINa  THEIR  CUTTING  OF  THEIE  HAIR,  THEIR  CARE 
OF  THEIR  TEETH,  AND  SHAYING  OF  THEIR  BEARD. 

The  men  and  women  cut  their  hair  close  round  to  the  ears 
and  eyes.  The  women,  after  the  manner  of  the  Parthians, 
cover  their  heads  with  a  large  white  veil,  folded  together  in 
the  form  of  a  crown. 

Both  sexes  exceed  any  other  nation  in  attention  to  their 
teeth,  which  they  render  like  ivory,  by  constantly  rubbing 
them  with  green  hazel  and  wiping  with  a  woollen  cloth.  For 
their  better  preservation,  they  abstain  from  hot  meats,  and 
eat  only  such  as  are  cold,  warm,  or  temperate.  The  men 
shave  all  their  beard  except  the  moustaches  {gernobodd). 
This  custom  is  not  recent,  but  was  observed  in  ancient  and 
remote  ages,  as  we  find  in  the  works  of  Julius  Caesar,  who 
says,'  "  The  Britons  shave  every  part  of  their  body  except 
their  head  and  upper  lip  ;"  and  to  render  themselves  more 
active,  and  avoid  the  fate  of  Absalon  in  their  excursions 
through  the  woods,  they  are  accustomed  to  cut  even  the 
hair  from  their  heads ;  so  that  this  nation  more  than  any 
other  shaves  off  all  pilosity."  Julius  also  adds,  that  the 
Britons,  previous  to  an  engagement,  anointed  their  faces  with 
a  nitrous  ointment,  which  gave  them  so  ghastly  and  shining 
an  appearance,  that  the  enemy  could  scarcely  bear  to  look  at 
them,  particularly  if  the  rays  of  the  sun  were  reflected  on 
them. 

CHAPTER  XII. 

OP  THEIR  QUICKNESS  AND   SHARPNESS  OF  UNDERSTANDING. 

These  people  being  of  a  sharp  and  acute  intellect,  and 

^  "  Omnes  vero  se  Britanni  vitro  inficiunt,  quod  cseruleum  efficit  colorern, 
atqiie  hoc  horridore  sunt  in  pugna  adspectu  ;  capilloque  sunt  promisao, 
Btque  omni  parte  corporis  rasa,  praeter  caput  et  labrum  superius." — 
C«£sar  de  Bello  GaWco,  cap.  13,  14. 


THETE    MUSICAL    INSTRUMENTS.  405 

gifted  with  a  rich  and  powerful  understanding,  excel  in 
whatever  studies  they  pursue,  and  are  more  quick  and  cun- 
ning than  the  other  inhabitants  of  a  western  clime. 

Their  musical  instruments  charm  and  delight  the  ear  with 
their  sweetness,  are  borne  along  by  such  celerity  and  deli- 
cacy of  modulation,  producing  such  a  consonance  from  the 
rapidity  of  seemingly  discordant  touches,  that  I  shall  briefly 
repeat  what  is  set  forth  in  our  Irish  Topography  on  the 
subject  of  the  musical  instruments  of  the  three  nations.  It 
is  astonishing  that  in  so  complex  and  rapid  a  movement  of 
the  fingers,  the  musical  proportions  can  be  preserved,  and 
that  throughout  the  difficult  modulations  on  their  various 
instruments,  the  harmony  is  completed  with  such  a  sweet 
velocity,  so  unequal  an  equality,  so  discordant  a  concord, 
as  if  the  chords  sounded  together  fourths  or  fifths.  They 
always  begin  from  B  flat,  and  return  to  the  same,  that  the 
whole  may  be  completed  under  the  sweetness  of  a  pleasing 
sound.  They  enter  into  a  movement,  and  conclude  it  in  so 
delicate  a  manner,  and  play  the  little  notes  so  sportively  un- 
der the  blunter  sounds  of  the  base  strings,  enlivening  with 
wanton  levity,  or  communicating  a  deeper  internal  sensation 
of  pleasure,  so  that  the  perfection  of  their  art  appears  in 
the  concealment  of  it : 

"  Si  lateat,  prosit  j 

ferat  ars  deprensa  pudorem." 

"  Art  profits  when  concealed, 
Disgraces  when  revealed." 

From  this  cause,  those  very  strains  which  afibrd  deep  and 
unspeakable  mental  delight  to  those  who  have  skilfully  pene- 
trated into  the  mysteries  of  the  art,  fatigue  rather  than 
gratify  the  ears  of  others,  who  seeing,  do  not  perceive,  and 
hearing,  do  not  understand ;  and  by  whom  the  finest  music 
is  esteemed  no  better  than  a  confused  and  disorderly  noise, 
and  will  be  heard  with  unwillingness  and  disgust.^ 

They  make  use  of  three  instruments,  the  harp,  the  pipe, 
and  the  crwth  or  crowd  {chorus).^ 

'  I  have  adopted  Mr.  Jones's  translation  of  this  passage,  the  Latin 
text  of  which,  to  one  not  skilled  in  music,  appears  very  unintelligible. 

^  This  instrument  is  generally  supposed  to  have  been  the  origin  of  the 
violin,  which  was  not  commonly  known  in  England  till  the  reign  of 
Charles  I.  Before  this  time  the  crwth  was  not  probably  confined  to 
the  Principality,  from  the  name  of  Crowdero  in  Hudibras  ;  as  also  from 
a  fiddler  being  still  called  a  crowdtr  in  some  parts  of  England,  tJiough 


496  DESCRli'TION    OF    ^VALKS. 

They  omit  no  part  of  natural  rhetoric  in  tlie  managemeii\ 
of  civil  actions,  in  quickness  of  invention,  disposition,  refu- 
tation, and  confirmation.  In  their  rhymed  songs  and  set 
speeches  they  are  so  subtile  and  ingenious,  that  they  pro- 
duce,  in  their  native  tongue,  ornaments  of  wonderful  and 
exquisite  invention  both  in  the  words  and  sentences.  Hencje 
arise  those  poets  whom  they  call  Bards,  of  whom  you  will 
find  many  in  this  nation,  endowed  with  the  above  faculty, 
according  to  the  poet's  observation : 

"  Plurima  concreti  fuderunt  carmina  Bardi." 
But  they  make  use  of  alliteration  {anominatione)  in  pre- 
ference to  all  other  ornaments  of  rhetoric,  and  that  parti- 
cular kind  which  joins  by  consonancy  the  first  letters  or  sylla- 
bles of  words.  So  much  do  the  English  and  Welsh  nations 
employ  this  ornament  of  words  in  all  exquisite  composition, 
that  no  sentence  is  esteemed  to  be  elegantly  spoken,  no  ora- 
tion to  be  otherwise  than  uncouth  and  unrefined,  unless  it 
be  fully  polished  with  the  file  of  this  figure.  Thus  in  the 
British  tongue : 

"  Digawn  Duw  da  i  unic." 

"  Wrth  bob  crybwylh  rhaid  pwylh  parawdd."^ 

he  now  plays  on  a  violin  instead  of  a  crwth.  With  the  above  account, 
(printed  in  the  Archaiology,  vol.  iii.  from  a  paper  of  Mr.  Daines  Bar- 
rington,)  there  is  a  drawing  of  this  musical  instrument ;  and  an  asser- 
tion, that  at  the  time  tlois  accovmt  was  transmitted  to  the  Society,  a.d. 
1770,  the  instrument  was  on  the  point  of  being  entirely  lost,  as  there 
was  but  one  person  in  the  whole  principality  who  could  play  upon  it. 
A  very  minute  description  of  the  crwth,  by  Gruffyd  ab  David  ab  Howel, 
and  many  other  particulars  respecting  it,  have  been  collected  by  Mr. 
Jones,  in  his  Dissertation  on  the  Musical  Instruments  of  the  Welsh, 
page  114,  edition  of  1794.     See  a  former  note,  p.  127. 

'  These  Welsh  lines  quoted  by  Griraldus  are  selected  from  two  different 
stanzas  of  moral  verses,  called  Eglynion  y  Cly wed,  the  composition  oi 
iome  anonymous  bard  ;  or  probably  the  work  of  several : 

"  A  glyweisti  a  gant  Dywyneg, 

Milwr  doeth  detholedig ; 

Digawn  Duw  da  i  unig? 
"  Hast  thou  heard  what  was  sung  by  Dy  wynic  ? 

A  wise  and  chosen  warrior ; 

God  will  effect  solace  to  the  orphan. 
*'  A  glyweisti  a  gant  Anarawd  ? 

Milwr  doniawg  did  lawd  ; 

Rhaid  wrth  anmhwyll  pwyU  parawd. 


THElJi    LAJ^QUAGE.  497 

And  in  English, 

"  Grod  is  together  gammen  and  wisedom." 

The  same  ornament  of  speech  is  also  frequent  in  the  Latin 
language.'     Virgil  says, 

"Tales  casus  Cassandra  canebat." 

And  again,  in  his  address  to  Augustus, 

'*  Dum  dubitet  natura  mar  em,  faceretve  puellam, 
Natus  es,  o  pulcher,  pene  puella,  puer." 

This  ornament  occurs  not  in  any  language  we  know  so  fre- 
quently as  in  the  two  first ;  it  is,  indeed,  surprising  that  the 
French,  in  other  respects  so  ornamented,  should  be  entirely 
ignorant  of  this  verbal  elegance  so  much  adopted  in  other 
languages.  Nor  can  I  believe  that  the  English  and  Welsh, 
so  different  and  adverse  to  each  other,  could  designedly  have 
agreed  in  the  usage  of  this  figure  ;  but  I  should  rather  suppose 
that  it  had  grown  habitual  to  both  by  long  custom,  as  it 
pleases  the  ear  by  a  transition  from  similar  to  similar  sounds. 
Cicero,  in  his  book  "  On  Elocution,"  observes  of  such  who 
know  the  practice,  not  the  art,  "  Other  persons  when  they 
read  good  orations  or  poems,  approve  of  the  orators  or  poets, 
not  understanding  the  reason  why,  being  affected,  they  ap- 
prove ;  because  they  cannot  know  in  what  place,  of  what 

♦*  Hast  thou  heard  what  was  sung  by  Anarawd  ? 
A  warrior  endowed  with  many  gifts  ; 
With  want  of  sense  ready  wit  is  necessary." 

Or,  as  Giraldus  quotes  it, 

"  Wrth  bob  crybwll  rhaid  pwyll  parawd." 
"  With  every  hint  ready  wit  is  necessary." 

Myvyvrian  Archaioloyy,  page  172. 

*  The  alliteration  of  the  Welsh  poetry,  in  the  examples  here  given  by 
Giraldus,  is  so  entirely  identical  with  that  of  the  Anglo-Saxons,  both 
in  its  arrangement  and  in  the  form  and  rhythm  of  the  verse,  that  w« 
can  hardly  doubt  its  being  taken  from  it.  The  cantilena  rhythmic<B 
were,  of  course,  rhymiag  verse ;  which,  therefore,  was  in  use  among  the 
Welsh  in  the  time  of  Q-iraldus  Cambrensis,  though  he  seems  to  consider 
alliteration  as  being  then  their  more  natural  form  of  verse.  The  appear- 
ances are  in  favour  of  the  suggestion  that  the  Welsh  had  first  adopted 
the  alliterative  verse  of  the  Anglo-Saxons  ;  and  that,  after  the  entranc* 
of  the  Normans,  this  alliteration  had,  exactly  as  in  the  English  poetry 
itself,  been  superseded  by  the  newer  French  system  of  rhyming  ver»©. 


498  DESCRIPTION    OP   WALES. 

nature,  nor  how  that  effect  is  caused  which  so  highly  delights 
them." 

CHAPTEE  XIII. 

or  THEIE   SYMPHONIES    AND    SONGS. 

In  their  musical  concerts  they  do  not  sing  in  unison  like 
the  inhabitants  of  other  countries,  but  in  many  different 
parts ;  so  that  in  a  company  of  singers,  which  one  very  fre- 
quently meets  with  in  Wales,  you  will  hear  as  many  dif- 
ferent parts  and  voices  as  there  are  performers,  who  all  at 
length  unite,  with  organic  melody,  in  one  consonance  and 
the  soft  sweetness  of  B  flat.  In  the  northern  district  of 
Britain,  beyond  the  Humber,  and  on  the  borders  of  York- 
shire, the  inhabitants  make  use  of  the  same  kind  of  sympho- 
nious  harmony,  but  with  less  variety  ;  singing  only  in  two 
parts,  one  murmuring  in  the  base,  the  other  warbling  in 
the  acute  or  treble.  Neither  of  the  two  nations  has  acquired 
this  peculiarity  by  art,  but  by  long  habit,  which  has  ren- 
dered it  natural  and  familiar ;  and  the  practice  is  now  so 
lirmly  rooted  in  them,  that  it  is  unusual  to  hear  a  simple 
and  single  melody  well  sung ;  and,  what  is  still  more  won- 
derful, the  children,  even  from  their  infancy,  sing  in  the 
same  manner.  As  the  English  in  general  do  not  adopt  this 
mode  of  singing,  but  only  those  of  the  northern  countries, 
I  believe  that  it  was  from  the  Danes  and  Norwegians,  by 
whom  these  parts  of  the  island  were  more  frequently  in- 
vaded, and  held  longer  under  their  dominion,  that  the 
natives  contracted  their  mode  of  singing  as  well  as  speaking. 

CHAPTEE    Xiy. 

THEIE  WIT   AND    PLEASANTET. 

The  heads  of  different  families,  in  order  to  excite  the  laugh- 
ter of  their  guests,  and  gain  credit  by  their  sayings,  make 
use  of  great  facetiousness  in  their  conversation ;  at  one  time 
uttering  their  jokes  in  a  light,  easy  manner,  at  another  time, 
under  the  disguise  of  equivocation,  passing  the  severest  cen- 
sures. For  the  sake  of  explanation  I  shall  here  subjoin  a 
few  examples.  Tegengl  is  the  name  of  a  province  in  North 
Wales,  over  which  David,  son  of  Owen,  had  dominion,  and 
which  had  once  been  in  the  possession  of  his  brother.     The 


EXAMPLES    OP   WELSH    WIT.  499 

same  word  also  was  the  name  of  a  certain  woman  with 
whom,  it  was  said,  each  brother  had  an  intrigue,  from  which 
circumstance  arose  this  term  of  reproach,  "  To  have  Tegengl, 
after  Tegengl  had  been  in  possession  of  his  brother." 

At  another  time,  when  Ehys,  son  of  Grruffydh,  prince  of 
South  Wales,  accompanied  by  a  multitude  of  his  people, 
devoutly  entered  the  church  of  St.  David's,  previous  to  an 
intended  journey,  the  oblations  having  been  made,  and 
mass  solemnized,  a  young  man  came  to  him  in  the  church, 
and  publicly  declared  himself  to  be  his  son,  threw  himself 
at  his  feet,  and  with  tears  humbly  requested  that  the  truth 
of  this  assertion  might  be  ascertained  by  the  trial  of  the 
burning  iron.  Intelligence  of  this  circumstance  being  con- 
veyed to  his  family  and  his  two  sons,  who  had  just  gone  out 
of  the  church,  a  youth  who  was  present  made  this  remark : 
"  This  is  not  wonderful ;  some  have  brought  gold,  and  others 
silver,  as  offerings ;  but  this  man,  who  had  neither,  brought 
what  he  had,  namely,  iron ;"  thus  taunting  him  with  his 
poverty.  On  mentioning  a  certain  house  that  was  strongly 
built  and  almost  impregnable,  one  of  the  company  said, 
"  This  house  indeed  is  strong,  for  if  it  should  contain  food 
it  could  never  be  got  at,"  thus  alluding  both  to  the  food 
and  to  the  house.  In  like  manner,  a  person,  wishing  to 
hint  at  the  avaricious  disposition  of  the  mistress  of  a  house, 
said,  "  I  only  find  fault  with  our  hostess  for  putting  too 
little  butter  to  her  salt,"  whereas  the  accessary  should  be 
put  to  the  principal ;  thus,  by  a  subtile  transposition  of  the 
words,  converting  the  accessary  into  the  principal,  by 
making  it  appear  to  abound  in  quantity.  Many  similar 
sayings  of  great  men  and  philosophers  are  recorded  in  the 
Saturnalia  of  Macrobius.  When  Cicero  saw  his  son-in-law, 
Lentulus,  a  man  of  small  stature,  with  a  long  sword  by  his 
side :  "  Who,"  says  he,  "  has  girded  my  son-in-law  to  that 
sword?"  thus  changing  the  accessary  into  the  principal. 
The  same  person,  on  seeing  the  half-length  portrait  of  his 
brother  Quintus  Cicero,  drawn  with  very  large  features 
and  an  immense  shield,  exclaimed,  "  Half  of  my  brother  is 
greater  than  the  whole !"  When  the  sister  of  I'austus  had 
an  intrigue  with  a  fuiler,  "  Is  it  strange,"  says  he,  "  that  my 
Bister  has  a  spot,  when  she  is  connected  with  a  fuller  ?" 
When  Antiochus  showed  Hannibal  his  army,  and  the  great 


500  DESCRIPTION    (F    ■V\ALES. 

warlike  preparaiions  he  had  made  against  the  Eomans,  and 
asked  him,  "Thinkest  thou,  O  Hannibal,  that  these  are 
sufficient  for  the  Eomans  ?"  Hannibal,  ridiculing  the 
unmilitary  appearance  of  the  soldiers,  wittily  and  severely 
replied,  *'  I  certainly  think  them  sufficient  for  the  Romans, 
however  greedy ;"  Antiochus  asking  his  opinion  about  the 
military  preparations,  and  Hannibal  alluding  to  them  aa 
becoming  a  prey  to  the  Eomans. 

CHAPTEE  XV. 

THEIE   BOLDNESS  AND   CONFIDENCE    IN    SPEAKING. 

Nature  hath  given  not  only  to  the  highest,  but  also  to  the 
inferior,  classes  of  the  people  of  this  nation,  a  boldness  and 
confidence  in  speaking  and  answering,  even  in  the  presence 
of  their  princes  and  chieftains.  The  Eomans  and  Franks 
had  the  same  faculty;  but  neither  the  English,  nor  the 
Saxons  and  G-ermans,  from  whom  they  are  descended,  had 
it.  It  is  in  vain  urged,  that  this  defect  may  arise  from  the 
state  of  servitude  which  the  English  endured ;  for  the 
Saxons  and  Germans,  who  enjoy  their  liberty,  have  the 
same  failing,  and  derive  this  natural  coldness  of  disposition 
from  the  frozen  region  they  inhabit ;  the  English  also,  al- 
though placed  in  a  distant  climate,  still  retain  the  exterior 
fairness  of  complexion  and  inward  coldness  of  disposition, 
as  inseparable  from  their  original  and  natural  character. 
The  Britons,  on  the  contrary,  transplanted  from  the  hot 
and  parched  regions  of  Dardania  into  these  more  temperate 
districts,  as 

"  Coelum  non  animum  mutant  qui  trans  mare  currunt," 

still  retain  their  brown  complexion  and  that  natural  warmth 
of  temper  from  which  their  confidence  is  derived.  For  three 
nations,  remnants  of  the  Greeks  after  the  destruction  of 
Troy,  fled  from  Asia  into  different  parts  of  Europe,  the 
Eomans  under  jEneas,  the  Franks  under  Antenor,  and  the 
Britons  under  Brutus ;  and  from  thence  arose  that  courage, 
that  nobleness  of  mind,  that  ancient  dignity,  that  acuteness 
of  understanding,  and  confidence  of  speech,  for  which  these 
three  nations  are  so  highly  distinguished.  But  the  Britons, 
from  having  been  detained  longer  in  Greece  than  the  othef 


THE  TVELSH    SOOTHSATEHS.  5l.  1 

fcwo  nations,  after  the  destruction  of  their  country,  and 
having  migrated  at  a  later  period  into  the  western  parts  of 
Europe,  retained  in  a  greater  degree  the  primitive  words 
and  phrases  of  their  native  language.  You  will  find  amongst 
them  the  names  Oenus,  Eesus,  vEneas,  Hector,  Achilles, 
Heliodorus,  Theodorus,  Ajax,  Evander,  XJliex,  Anianus, 
Elisa,  Gruendolena,  and  many  others,  bearing  marks  of  their 
antiquity.  It  is  also  to  be  observed,  that  almost  all  words 
in  the  British  language  correspond  either  with  the  G-reek 
or  Latin,  as  vdup,  water,  is  called  in  British,  dwr ;  aX^,  salt, 
in  British,  halen ;  ovo/xa,  eno,  a  name ;  rrsvri,  pump,  five ; 
dixa,  deg,  ten.  The  Latins  also  use  the  words  frsenum,  tri- 
pos, gladius,  lorica;  the  Britons,  froyn  (ff'rwyn),  trepet 
(tribedd),  cledhyf,  and  Ihuric  (llurig)  ;  unicus  is  made  unic 
(  unig)  ;  canis  can  (cwn)  ;  and  belua,  beleu. 

CHAPTEE  XVI. 

COKCEENING  THE  SOOTHSAYERS  OP  THIS  IS'ATION,  AND  PER- 
SONS AS  IT  WERE  POSSESSED. 

There  are  certain  persons  in  Cambria,  whom  you  will  find 
nowhere  else,  called  Awenydhyon,^  or  people  inspired  ;  when 
consulted  upon  any  doubtful  event,  they  roar  out  violently, 
are  rendered  beside  themselves,  and  become,  as  it  were,  pos- 
sessed by  a  spirit.  They  do  not  deliver  the  answer  to  what 
is  required  in  a  connected  manner ;  but  the  person  who  skil- 
fully observes  them,  will  find,  after  many  preambles,  and 
many  nugatory  and  incoherent,  though  ornamented  speeches, 
the  desired  explanation  conveyed  in  some  turn  of  a  word : 
they  are  then  roused  from  their  ecstacy,  as  from  a  deep 
sleep,  and,  as  it  were,  by  violence  compelled  to  return  to 
their  proper  senses.  After  having  answered  the  questions, 
they  do  not  recover  till  violently  shaken  by  other  people ; 
nor  can  they  remember  the  replies  they  have  given.  If  con- 
sulted a  second  or  third  time  upon  the  same  point,  they  will 
make  use  of  expressions  totally  diff"erent ;  perhaps  they 
speak  by  the  means  of  fanatic  and  ignorant  spirits.     These 

1  Awenydhion,  in  a  literal  sense,  means  persons  inspired  by  the 
Muse,  and  is  derived  from  Awen  and  Awenydd,  a  poetical  rapture,  or 
the  gift  of  poetry.  It  was  the  appellation  of  the  disciples,  or  candidatet 
for  the  Bardic  Order  ;  but  the  most  general  acceptation  of  the  word 
was,  Poets,  or  Bards. 


502  DESCEIPTION    or  WALES. 

gifts  are  usually  conferred  upon  tliem  in  dreams :  some 
seem  to  have  sweet  milk  or  honey  poured  on  their  lips ; 
others  fancy  that  a  written  schedule  is  applied  to  their 
mouths,  and  on  awaking  they  publicly  declare  that  they 
have  received  this  gift.  Such  is  the  saying  of  Esdras,  "  The 
Lord  said  unto  me,  open  thy  mouth,  and  I  opened  my 
mouth,  and  behold  a  cup  full  of  water,  whose  colour  was  like 
fire ;  and  when  I  had  drank  it,  my  heart  brought  forth  un- 
derstanding, and  wisdom  entered  into  my  breast."  They 
invoke,  during  their  prophecies,  the  true  and  living  Grod, 
and  the  Holy  Trinity,  and  pray  that  they  may  not  by  their 
sins  be  prevented  from  finding  the  truth.  These  prophets 
are  only  found  among  the  Britons  descended  from  the  Tro- 
jans. Eor  Calchas  and  Cassandra,  endowed  with  the  spirit 
of  prophecy,  openly  foretold,  during  the  siege  of  Troy,  the 
destruction  of  that  fine  city ;  on  which  account  the  high 
priest,  Helenus,  influenced  by  the  prophetic  books  of  Cal- 
chas, and  of  others  who  had  long  before  predicted  the  ruin 
of  their  country,  in  the  first  year  went  over  to  the  G-reeks 
with  the  sons  of  Priam  (to  whom  he  was  high  priest),  and  was 
afterwards  rewarded  in  Greece.  Cassandra,  daughter  of  king 
Priam,  every  day  foretold  the  overthrow  of  the  city  ;  but 
the  pride  and  presumption  of  the  Trojans  prevented  them 
from  believing  her  word.  Even  on  the  very  night  that  the 
city  was  betrayed,  she  clearly  described  the  treachery  and 
the  method  of  it : 


tales  casus  Cassandra  canebat," 


as  in  the  same  manner,  during  the  existence  of  the  kingdom 
of  the  Britons,  both  Merlin  Caledonius  and  Ambrosius  are 
said  to  have  foretold  the  destruction  of  their  nation,  as  well 
as  the  coming  of  the  Saxons,  and  afterwards  that  of  the 
Normans ;  and  I  think  a  circumstance  related  by  Aulus 
Q-ellius  worth  inserting  in  this  place.  On  the  day  that 
Caius  CaBsar  and  Cneius  Pompey,  during  the  civil  war,  fought 
a  pitched  battle  in  Thessalia,  a  memorable  event  occurred 
in  that  part  of  Italy  situated  beyond  the  river  Po.  A 
priest  named  Cornelius,  honourable  from  his  rank,  vener- 
able for  his  religion,  and  holy  in  his  manners,  in  an  inspired 
moment  proclaimed,  ''  Caesar  has  conquered,"  and  named  the 
day,  the  events,  the  mutual  attack,  and  the  conflicts  of  the 


PROPHETS    A>'D    PROPHECIES.  503 

fcwo  armies.  Whether  such  things  are  exhibited  by  the 
spirit,  let  the  reader  more  particularly  enquire  ;  I  do  not 
assert  they  are  the  acts  of  a  Pythonic  or  a  diabolic  spirit ; 
for  as  foreknowledge  is  the  property  of  God  alone,  so  is  it 
in  his  power  to  confer  knowledge  of  future  events.  There 
are  differences  of  gifts,  says  the  Apostle,  but  one  and  the 
same  spirit;  whence  Peter,  in  his  second  Epistle,  writes,  "  Por 
the  prophecy  came  not  in  the  old  time  by  the  will  of  man, 
but  men  spake  as  if  they  were  inspired  by  the  Holy  Grhost :" 
to  the  same  effect  did  the  Chaldeans  answer  king  Nebucha- 
donazar  on  the  interpretation  of  his  dream,  which  he  wished 
to  extort  from  them.  *'  There  is  not,"  say  they,  "  a  man  upon 
earth  who  can,  O  king,  satisfactorily  answer  your  question ; 
let  no  king  therefore,  however  great  or  potent,  make  a  simi- 
lar request  to  any  magician,  astrologer,  or  Chaldean ;  for  it 
is  a  rare  thing  that  the  king  requireth,  and  there  is  none 
other  that  can  shew  it  before  the  king,  except  the  Gods, 
whose  dwelling  is  not  with  flesh."  On  this  passage  Jerome 
remarks,  "  The  diviners  and  all  the  learned  of  this  world 
confess,  that  the  prescience  of  future  events  belongs  to  God 
alone  ;  the  prophets  therefore,  who  foretold  things  to  come, 
spake  by  the  spirit  of  God.  Hence  some  persons  object, 
that,  if  they  were  under  the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
they  would  sometimes  premise,  "  Thus  saith  the  Lord  God,'' 
or  make  use  of  some  expression  in  the  prophetic  style  ;  and 
as  such  a  mode  of  prophesying  is  not  taken  notice  of  by 
Merlin,  and  no  mention  is  made  of  his  sanctity,  devotion, 
or  faith,  many  think  that  he  spake  by  a  Pythonic  spirit.  To 
which  I  answer,  that  the  spirit  of  prophecy  was  given  not 
only  to  the  holy,  but  sometimes  to  unbelievers  and  Gentiles, 
to  Baal,  to  the  sibyls,  and  even  to  bad  people,  as  to  Caiaphas 
and  Bela.  On  which  occasion  Origen  says  :  "  Do  not  wonder, 
if  he  whom  ye  have  mentioned  declares  that  the  Scribes  and 
Pharisees  and  doctors  amongst  the  Jews  prophesied  con- 
cerning Christ ;  for  Caiaphas  said  :  '  It  is  expedient  for  us 
that  one  man  die  for  the  people  :'  but  asserts  at  the  same 
time,  that  because  he  was  high  priest  for  that  year,  he  pro- 
phesied. Let  no  man  therefore  be  lifted  up,  if  he  prophe- 
sies, if  he  merits  prescience ;  for  prophecies  shall  fail, 
tongues  shall  cease,  knowledge  shall  vanish  away ;  and  now 
abideth,  faith,  hope,  and    charity :    these  three ;   but  the 


504i  DESCRIPTION   or    WALES. 

greatest  of  tliese  is  Charity,  which  never  faileth.  But  these 
bad  men  not  only  prophesied,  but  sometimes  performed 
great  miracles,  which  others  could  not  accomplish.  John 
the  Baptist,  who  was  so  great  a  personage,  performed  no 
miracle,  as  John  the  Evangelist  testifies  :  "  And  many  came 
to  Jesus  and  said,  Because  John  wrought  no  signs,"  &c. 
Nor  do  we  hear  that  the  mother  of  Grod  performed  any 
miracle :  we  read  in  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  that  the  sons 
of  Sheva  cast  out  devils  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  whom  Paul 
preached ;  and  in  Matthew  and  Luke  we  may  find  these  words: 
"  Many  shall  say  unto  me  in  that  day.  Lord,  Lord,  have  we 
not  prophesied  in  thy  name  ?  and  in  thy  name  have  cast  out 
devils  ?  and  in  thy  name  done  many  wonderful  works  ?  and 
then  I  will  profess  unto  them,  I  never  knew  you."  And  in 
another  place,  John  says :  "  Master,  we  saw  a  certain  man 
casting  out  devils  in  thy  name,  and  forbade  him,  because  he 
followeth  not  with  us."  But  Jesus  said  :  "  Forbid  him  not  ; 
no  man  can  do  a  miracle  in  my  name,  and  speak  evil  of  me  ; 
for  whoever  is  not  against  me,  is  for  me." 

Alexander  of  Macedon,  a  gentile,  traversed  the  Caspian 
mountains,  and  miraculously  confined  ten  tribes  within  their 
promontories,  where  they  still  remain,  and  will  continue 
until  the  coming  of  Elias  and  Enoch.  We  read,  indeed,  the 
prophecies  of  Merlin,  but  hear  nothing  either  of  his  sanctity 
or  his  miracles.  Some  say,  that  the  prophets,  when  they 
prophesied,  did  not  become  frantic,  as  it  is  affirmed  of  Mer- 
lin Silvestris,  and  others  possessed,  whom  we  have  before 
mentioned.  Some  prophesied  by  dreams,  visions,  and  enig<= 
matical  sayings,  as  Ezechiel  and  Daniel ;  others  by  acts  and 
words,  as  Noah,  in  the  construction  of  the  ark,  alluded  to 
the  church  ;  Abraham,  in  the  slaying  of  his  son,  to  the  pas- 
sion of  Christ ;  and  Moses  by  his  speech,  when  he  said,  "  A 
prophet  shall  the  Lord  Grod  raise  up  to  you  of  your  breth- 
ren ;  hear  him;"  meaning  Christ.  Others  have  prophesied 
in  a  more  excellent  way  by  the  internal  revelation  and  in- 
spiration of  tbe  Holy  Spirit,  as  David  did  when  persecuted 
by  Saul :  "  When  Saul  heard  that  David  had  fled  to  Naioth 
(which  is  a  hill  in  Kamah,  and  the  seat  of  the  prophets),  he 
sent  messengers  to  take  him ;  and  when  they  saw  the  com- 
pany of  the  prophets  prophesying,  and  Samuel  standing  at 
their  head,  the  Spirit  of  Grod  came  upon  the  messengers  of 


THEIE  LOTE  OF  GENEALOGIES.  505 

Saul,  and  they  also  prophesied  j  and  he  sent  messengers  a 
second  and  again  a  third  time,  and  they  also  prophesied.  And 
Saul  enraged  went  thither  also  ;  and  the  Spirit  of  God  was 
upon  him  also,  and  he  went  on,  and  prophesied  until  he  came 
to  Naioth,  and  he  stripped  off  his  royal  vestments,  and  pro- 
phesied with  the  rest  for  all  that  day  and  all  that  night, 
whilst  Da\dd  and  Samuel  secretly  observed  what  passed." 
Nor  is  it  wonderful  that  those  persons  who  suddenly  receive 
the  Spirit  of  God,  and  so  signal  a  mark  of  grace,  should  for 
a  time  seem  alienated  from  their  earthly  state  of  mind. 

CHAPTEE  XVII. 

THEIE   LOVE    OF    HIGH    BIETH    AND    ANCIENT    GENEALOGY. 

The  Welsh  esteem  noble  birth  and  generous  descent  above 
all  things,^  and  are,  therefore,  more  desirous  of  marrying 
into  noble  than  rich  families.  Even  the  common  people 
retain  their  genealogy,  and  can  not  only  readily  recount  the 
names  of  their  grandfathers  and  great-grandfathers,  but 
even  refer  back  to  the  sixth  or  seventh  generation,  or  be- 
yond them,  in  this  manner :  Bhys,  son  of  Gruffydh,  son  of 
Bhys,  son  of  Theodor,  son  of  Eineon,  son  of  Owen,  son  ot 
Howel,  son  of  Cadelh,  son  of  Eoderic  Mawr,  and  so  on. 

Being  particularly  attached  to  family  desccDt,  they  re- 
venge with  vehemence  the  injuries  which  may  tend  to  the 
disgrace  of  their  blood  ;  and  being  naturally  of  a  vindictive 
and  passionate  disposition,  they  are  ever  ready  to  avenge 
not  only  recent  but  ancient  affronts ;  they  neither  inhabit 
towns,  villages,  nor  castles,  but  lead  a  solitary  life  in  the 
woods,  on  the  borders  of  which  they  do  not  erect  sumptuous 
palaces,  nor  lofty  stone  buildings,  but  content  themselves 

'  Genealogies  were  preserved  as  a  principle  of  necessity  \inder  the 
ancient  British  constitution.  A  man's  pedigree  was  in  reality  his  title 
deed,  by  which  he  claimed  his  birthright  in  the  country.  Every  one 
was  obliged  to  show  his  descent  through  nine  generations,  in  order  to 
be  acknowledged  a  free  native,  and  by  this  right  he  claimed  his  por- 
tion of  land  in  the  community.  He  was  affected  with  respect  to  legal 
process  in  his  collateral  affinities  thi'ough  nine  degrees.  For  instance, 
every  murder  committed  had  a  fine  levied  on  the  relations  of  the  mur- 
derer, divided  into  nine  degrees ;  his  brother  paying  the  greatest,  and 
the  ninth  in  affinity  the  least.  This  fine  was  disti'ibuted  in  the  same 
way  among  the  relatives  of  the  victim.  A  person  past  the  ninth  descent 
formed  a  new  family.  Every  family  was  represented  by  its  elder ;  and 
these  elders  frouj  every  family  were  delegates  to  the  national  couaciL— 
Owen. 


50t)  DESCEIPTION   OF    WALES. 

wr'tli  small  huts  made  of  the  boughs  of  trees  twisted  loge* 
ther,  constructed  with  little  labour  and  expense,  and  suffi- 
cient to  endure  throughout  the  year.  They  have  neither 
orchards  nor  gardens,  but  gladly  eat  the  fruit  of  both  when 
given  to  them.  The  greater  part  of  their  land  is  laid  down 
to  pasturage ;  little  is  cultivated,  a  very  small  quantity  is 
ornamented  with  flowers,  and  a  still  smaller  is  sown.  They 
seldom  yoke  less  than  four  oxen  to  their  ploughs ;  the  driver 
walks  before,  but  backwards,  and  when  he  falls  down,  is 
.  frequently  exposed  to  danger  from  the  refractory  oxen 
Instead  of  small  sickles  in  mowing,  the}'  make  use  of  a  mo- 
derate-sized piece  of  iron  formed  like  a  knife,  with  two 
pieces  of  wood  fixed  loosely  and  flexibly  to  the  head,  which 
they  think  a  more  expeditious  instrument ;  but  since 

"  Segnius  irritant  auimos  demissa  per  aures, 
Quam  quae  sunt  oculis  subjecta  fidelibus," 

their  mode  of  using  it  will  be  better  known  by  inspection 
than  by  any  description.  The  boats'  which  they  employ 
in  fishing  or  in  crossing  the  rivers  are  made  of  twigs,  not 
oblong  nor  pointed,  but  almost  round,  or  rather  triangular, 
covered  both  within  and  without  with  raw  hides.  When  a 
salmon  thrown  into  one  of  these  boats  strikes  it  hard  with 
his  tail,  he  often  oversets  it,  and  endangers  both  the  vessel 
and  its  navigator.  The  fishermen,  according  to  the  custom 
of  the  country,  in  going  to  and  from  the  rivers,  carry  these 
boats  on  their  shoulders ;  on  which  occasion  that  famous 
dealer  in  fables,  Bledhercus,  who  lived  a  little  before  our  time, 
thus  mysteriously  said :  "  There  is  amongst  us  a  people  who, 
when  they  go  out  in  search  of  prey,  carry  their  horses  on 
their  backs  to  the  place  of  plunder ;  in  order  to  catch  their 
prey,  they  leap  upon  their  horses,  and  when  it  is  taken, 
carry  their  horses  home  again  upon  their  shoulders." 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

OF    THE    ANTIQUITY    OF    THEIR    FAITH,    THEIE    LOVE    OF 
CHRISTIANITY    AND    DEVOTION. 

In  ancient  times,  and  about  two  hundred  years  before  the 

'  The  navicukB  mentioned  by  Griraldus  bear  the  modern  name  of 
Qiiracles,  and  are  much  used  on  the  Welsh  rivers  for  the  taking  of 
fciiilmon.  Their  name  is  derived  probably  from  the  Celtic  word  coruwg^ 
\vluoh  signifies  a  skip.  They  are  mentioned  by  the  ancient  writers.  Se< 
a  former  note,  p.  139,  of  the  present  volume. 


L07E    or    CHEISTIANITY    AND    DETOTION.  507 

overthrow  of  Britain,  the  "Welsh  M^ere  instructed  and  con- 
firmed in  the  faith  by  Faganus  and  Damianus,  sent  into 
the  island  at  the  request  of  king  Lucius  by  pope  Eleuthe- 
rius,  and  from  that  period  when  Germanus  of  Auxerre,  and 
Lupus  of  Troyes,  came  over  on  account  of  the  corruption 
which  had  crept  into  the  island  by  the  invasion  of  the 
Saxons,  but  particularly  with  a  view  of  expelling  the  Pela- 
gian heresy,  nothing  heretical  or  contrary  to  the  true  faith 
was  to  be  found  amongst  the  natives.  But  it  is  said  that 
some  parts  of  the  ancient  doctrines  are  still  retained.  They 
give  the  first  piece  broken  ofi"  from  every  loaf  of  bread  to 
the  poor ;  they  sit  down  to  dinner  by  three  to  a  dish,  in 
honour  of  the  Trinity.  With  extended  arms  and  bowing 
liead,  they  ask  a  blessing  of  every  monk  or  priest,  or  of 
every  person  wearing  a  religious  habit.  But  they  desire, 
above  all  other  nations,  the  episcopal  ordination  and  unc- 
tion, by  which  the  grace  of  the  spirit  is  given.  They  give 
a  tenth  of  all  their  property,  animals,  cattle,  and  sheep, 
either  when  they  marry,  or  go  on  a  pilgrimage,  or,  by  the 
counsel  of  the  church,  are  persuaded  to  amend  their  lives. 
This  partition  of  their  effects  they  call  the  great  tithe,  two 
parts  of  which  they  give  to  the  church  where  they  were 
baptized,  and  the  third  to  the  bishop  of  the  diocese.  But 
of  all  pilgrimages  they  prefer  that  to  Eome,  where  they  pay 
tlie  most  fervent  adoration  to  the  apostolic  see.  "We  observe 
that  they  show  a  greater  respect  than  other  nations  to 
churches  and  ecclesiastical  persons,  to  the  relics  of  saints, 
bells,  holy  books,  and  the  cross,  which  they  devoutly  revere ; 
and  hence  their  churches  enjoy  more  than  common  tran- 
quillity. For  peace  is  not  only  preserved  towards  aU  ani- 
mals feeding  in  churchyards,  but  at  a  great  distance  beyond 
them,  where  certain  boundaries  and  ditches  have  been  ap- 
pointed by  the  bishops,  in  order  to  maintain  the  security  of 
the  sanctuary.  But  the  principal  churches  to  which  anti- 
quity has  annexed  the  greater  reverence  extend  their  pro- 
tection to  the  herds  as  far  as  they  can  go  to  feed  in  the 
morning  and  return  at  night.  If,  therefore,  any  person  has 
incurred  the  enmity  of  his  prince,  on  applying  to  the  church 
for  protection,  he  and  his  family  will  continue  to  live  unmo- 
lested ;  but  many  persons  abuse  this  indemnity,  far  exceed- 
ing the  indulgence  of  the  canon,  which  in  such  cases  grants 
only  personal  sal'ety ;  and  from  the  places  of  refuge  even 


508  DESCRIPTION    OF   WALES. 

make  Lostile  irruptions,  and  more  severely  harass  the  coun- 
try than  the  prince  himself.  Hermits  and  anchorites  more 
strictly  abstinent  and  more  spiritual  can  nowhere  be  found  ; 
for  this  nation  is  earnest  in  all  its  pursuits,  and  neither 
worse  men  than  the  bad,  nor  better  than  the  good,  can  be 
met  with. 

Happy  and  fortunate  indeed  would  this  nation  be,  nay, 
completely  blessed,  if  it  had  good  prelates  and  pastors,  and 
but  one  prince,  and  that  prince  a  good  one. 


BOOK  II. 

Haying  in  the  former  book  clearly  set  forth  the  character, 
manners,  and  customs  of  the  British  nation,  and  having 
collected  and  explained  everything  which  could  redound  to 
its  credit  or  glory ;  an  attention  to  order  now  requires  that, 
in  this  second  part,  we  should  employ  our  pen  in  pointing 
out  those  particulars  in  which  it  seems  to  transgress  the 
line  of  virtue  and  commendation  ;  having  first  obtained 
leave  to  speak  the  truth,  without  which  history  not  only 
loses  its  authority,  but  becomes  undeserving  of  its  very 
name.  For  the  painter  who  professes  to  imitate  nature, 
loses  his  reputation,  if,  by  indulging  his  fancy,  he  represents 
only  those  parts  of  the  subject  which  best  suit  him. 

Since,  therefore,  no  man  is  born  without  faults,  and  he  is 
esteemed  the  best  whose  errors  are  the  least,  let  the  wise 
man  consider  every  thing  human  as  connected  with  himself; 
for  in  worldly  affairs  there  is  no  perfect  happiness  under 
heaven.  Evil  borders  upon  good,  and  vices  are  confounded 
with  virtues  ;  as  the  report  of  good  qualities  is  delightful  to 
a  well-disposed  mind,  so  the  relation  of  the  contrary  should 
not  be  offensive.  The  natural  disposition  of  this  nation 
might  have  been  corrupted  and  perverted  by  long  exile  and 
poverty;  for  as  poverty  extinguisheth  many  faults,  so  it 
often  generates  failings  that  are  contrary  to  virtue. 

CHAPTEE  I. 

or  THE  INCONSTANCY  AND  INSTABILITY  OE  THIS  NATION, 
AND  THEIR  WANT  OE  BEYEEENCE  FOE  GOOD  FAITH  AND 
OATHS. 

Thesi*)  people  are  no  lesn  light  in  mind  than  in  body,  and 


DrSRLGARD    OF   PEACE    A2fD    EllIENiySHIP.  509 

are  by  no  means  to  be  relied  upon.  They  are  easily  urged 
to  undertake  any  action,  and  are  as  easily  checked  from 
prosecuting  it — a  people  quick  in  action,  but  more  stubborn 
in  a  bad  than  in  a  good  cause,  and  constant  only  in  acts 
of  inconstancy.  They  pay  no  respect  to  oaths,  faith,  or 
truth ;  and  so  lightly  do  they  esteem  the  covenant  of  faith, 
held  so  inviolable  by  other  nations,  that  it  is  usual  to  sacri- 
fice their  faith  for  nothing,  by  holding  forth  the  right  hand, 
not  only  in  serious  and  important  concerns,  but  even  on 
every  trifling  occasion,  and  for  the  confirmation  of  almost 
every  common  assertion.  They  never  scruple  at  taking  a 
false  oath  for  the  sake  of  any  temporary  emolument  or  ad- 
vantage ;  so  that  in  civil  and  ecclesiastical  causes,  each  party, 
being  ready  to  swear  whatever  seems  expedient  to  its  pur- 
pose, endeavours  both  to  prove  and  defend,  although  the 
venerable  laws,  by  which  oaths  are  deemed  sacred,  and  truth 
is  honoured  and  respected,  by  favouring  the  accused  and 
throwing  an  odium  upon  the  accuser,  impose  the  burden  of 
bringing  proofs  upon  the  latter.  But  to  a  people  so  cun- 
ning and  crafty,  this  yoke  is  pleasant,  and  this  burden  is 
light. 

CHAPTEE  II. 

THEIE    LIVING   BY   PLUNDEE,    AND    DISEEGAED    OF   THE 
BONDS    or    PEACE    AND    EEIENDSHIP. 

This  nation  conceives  it  right  to  commit  acts  of  plunder, 
theft,  and  robbery,  not  only  against  foreigners  and  hostile 
nations,  but  even  against  their  own  countrymen.  When  an 
opportunity  of  attacking  the  enemy  with  advantage  occurs, 
they  respect  not  the  leagues  of  peace  and  friendship,  pre- 
ferring base  lucre  to  the  solemn  obligations  of  oaths  and 
good  faith  ;  to  which  circumstance  G-ildas  alludes  in  his 
book  concerning  the  overthrow  of  the  Britons,  actuated  by 
the  love  of  truth,  and  according  to  the  rules  of  history,  not 
suppressing  the  vices  of  his  countrymen.  "They  are  nei- 
ther brave  in  war,  nor  faithful  in  peace."  But  when  Julius 
Caesar,  great  as  the  world  itself, 

"  Territa  qusesitis  ostendit  terga  Britannis," 
were  they  not  brave   under    their  leader  Cassivellaunus  ? 
And  when  Belinus  and  Brennus  added  the  Eoman  empire 
'jo  their  conquests  ?     What  were  they  in  the  time  of  Con- 
Btantine,  son  of  our  Helen  ?     What,  in  the  reign  of  Aure- 


510  DESCEIPItON    OF    WALES. 

litis  Ambrosius,  whom  even  Eutropius  commends  ?  Whai 
were  they  in  the  time  of  our  famous  prince  Arthur  ?  I 
will  not  say  fabulous.  On  the  contrary,  they,  who  were 
almost  subdued  by  the  Scots  and  Picts,  often  harassed  with 
success  the  auxiliary  Roman  legions,  and  exclaimed,  as  we 
learn  from  Grildas,  "The  barbarians  drove  us  to  the  sea, 
the  sea  drove  us  again  back  to  the  barbarians  ;  on  one  side 
we  were  subdued,  on  the  other  drowned,  and  here  we  were 
put  to  death.  Were  they  not,"  says  he,  "  at  that  time 
brave  and  praiseworthy  ?"  When  attacked  and  conquered 
by  the  Saxons,  who  originally  had  been  called  in  as  stipen- 
diaries to  their  assistance,  were  they  not  brave  ?  But  the 
strongest  argument  made  use  of  by  those  who  accuse  this 
nation  of  cowardice,  is,  that  Grildas,  a  holy  man,  and  a  Bri- 
ton by  birth,  has  handed  down  to  posterity  nothing  remark- 
able conceraing  them,  in  any  of  his  historical  works.  We 
promise,  however,  a  solution  of  the  contrary  in  our  British 
Topography,  if  Grod  grants  us  a  continuance  of  life. 

As  a  further  proof,  it  may  be  necessary  to  add,  that  from 
the  time  when  that  illustrious  prince  of  the  Britons,  men- 
tioned at  the  beginning  of  this  book,  totally  exhausted  the 
strength  of  the  country,  by  transporting  the  whole  armed 
force  beyond  the  seas  ;  that  island,  which  had  before  been  so 
highly  illustrious  for  its  incomparable  valour,  remained  for 
many  subsequent  years  destitute  of  men  and  arms,  and  ex- 
posed to  the  predatory  attacks  of  pirates  and  robbers.  So 
distinguished,  indeed,  were  the  natives  of  this  island  for  their 
bravery,  that,  by  their  prowess,  that  king  subdued  almost 
all  Cisalpine  Graul,  and  dared  even  to  make  an  attack  on 
the  EK)man  empire. 

In  process  of  time,  the  Britons,  recovering  their  long- 
lost  population  and  knowledge  of  the  use  of  arms,  re-acquired 
their  high  and  ancient  character.  Let  the  different  aeras  be 
therefore  marked,  and  the  historical  accounts  will  accord. 
With  regard  to  Gildas,  who  inveighs  so  bitterly  against  his 
own  nation,  the  Britons  affirm  that,  highly  irritated  at  the 
death  of  his  brother,  the  prince  of  Albania,  whom  king  Arthui 
had  slain,  he  wrote  these  invectives,  and  upon  the  same  occa- 
sion threw  into  the  sea  many  excellent  books,  in  which  he  had 
described  the  actions  of  Arthur,  and  the  celebrated  deeds  of 
his  countrymen  ;  from  which  cause  it  arises,  that  no  authentic 
account  of  so  great  a  prir.ce  is  any  where  to  be  found. 


MILITAllT    CHAEACTER    OF    THE    WELSH.  511 

CHAPTEE  III. 

OF    THEIE   DEEICIENCT    IN   BATTLE,    JlNB   BASE   AND 
DISHONOURABLE   FLIGHT. 

In  war  this  nation  is  very  severe  in  the  first  attack,  terrible 
by  their  clamour  and  looks,  filling  the  air  with  horrid  shouts 
and  the  deep-toned  clangor  of  very  long  trumpets ;  swift 
and  rapid  in  their  advances  and  frequent  throwing  of  darts. 
Bold  in  the  first  onset,  they  cannot  bear  a  repulse,  being 
easily  thrown  into  confusion  as  soon  as  they  turn  their 
backs ;  and  they  trust  to  flight  for  safety,  without  attempt- 
ing to  rally,  which  the  poet  thought  reprehensible  in  martial 
conflicts  : 

"  IgnaA  am  scelus  est  tantum  fiiga  j" 
and  elsewhere — 

"Invitium  culpse  ducit  fuga,  si  caret  arte." 
The  character  given  to  the  Teutones  in  the  Eoman  History, 
may  be  applied  to  this  people.  "  In  their  first  attack  they 
are  more  than  men,  in  the  second,  less  than  women."  Their 
courage  manifests  itself  chiefly  in  the  retreat,  when  they 
frequently  return,  and,  like  the  Parthians,  shoot  their 
arrows  behind  them ;  and,  as  after  success  and  victory  in 
battle,  even  cowards  boast  of  their  courage,  so,  after  a  re- 
verse of  fortune,  even  the  bravest  men  are  not  allowed  their 
due  claims  of  merit.  Their  mode  of  fighting  consists  in 
chasing  the  enemy  or  in  retreating.  This  light-armed  peo- 
ple, relying  more  on  their  activity  than  on  their  strength,  can- 
not struggle  for  the  field  of  battle,  enter  into  close  engage- 
ment, or  endure  long  and  severe  actions,  such  as  the  poet 
describes  : 

"  Jam  clypeo  clypeus,  umbone  repellitur  umbo, 
Ense  minax  ensis,  pede  pes,  et  cuspide  cuspis." 

Though  defeated  and  put  to  flight  on  one  day,  they  are  ready 
to  resume  the  combat  on  the  next,  neither  dejected  by  their 
loss,  nor  by  their  dishonour  ;  and  although,  perhaps,  they  do 
not  display  great  fortitude  in  open  engagements  and  regular 
conflicts,  yet  they  harass  the  enemy  by  ambuscades  and 
nightly  sallies.  Hence,  neither  oppressed  by  hunger  or 
cold,  not  fatigued  by  martial  labours,  nor  despondent  in 
adversity,  but  ready,  after  a  defeat,  to  return  immediately 
to  action,  and  again  endure  the  dangers  of  war ;  they  are  ai 


612  DESCRIPTION-    OF    WAL:  S 

easy  to  overcome  in  a  single  battle,  as  difficult  to  subdue  in 
a  protracted  war.  The  poet  Claudian  thus  speaks  of  a  peo- 
ple similar  in  disposition  :  — 

"  Dum  pereunt,  meminere  mali :  si  corda  parumper 
Respirare  sinas,  nuUo  tot  funera  censu 
Praetereunt,  taatique  levis  jactura  cruoris." 

CHAPTER  lY. 

THEIE   AMBITIOUS    SEIZURE    OE    LANDS,    AND    DISSENSEOIfS 
AMONa    BROTHEBS. 

This  nation  is,  above  all  others,  addicted  to  the  digging  up 
of  boundary  ditches,  removing  the  limits,  transgressing 
landmarks,  and  extending  their  territory  by  every  possible 
means.  So  great  is  their  disposition  towards  this  common 
violence,  that  they  scruple  not  to  claim  as  their  hereditary 
right,  those  lands  which  are  held  under  lease,  or  at  will,  on 
condition  of  planting,  or  by  any  other  title,  even  although 
indemnity  had  been  publicly  secured  on  oath  to  the  tenant 
by  the  lord  proprietor  of  the  soil.  Hence  arise  suits  and 
contentions,  murders  and  conflagrations,  and  frequent  fra- 
tricides, increased,  perhaps,  by  the  ancient  national  custom 
of  brothers  dividing  their  property  amongst  each  other. 
Another  heavy  grievance  also  prevails  ;  the  princes  entrust 
the  education  of  their  children  to  the  care  of  the  principal 
men  of  their  country,  each  of  whom,  after  the  death  of  his 
father,  endeavours,  by  every  possible  means,  to  exalt  his 
own  charge  above  his  neighbours.  From  which  cause  great 
disturbances  have  frequently  arisen  amongst  brothers,  and 
terminated  in  the  most  cruel  and  unjust  murders  ;  and  on 
which  account  friendships  are  found  to  be  more  sincere 
between  foster-brothers,  than  between  those  who  are  con- 
nected by  the  natural  ties  of  brotherhood.  It  is  also  re- 
markable, that  brothers  shew  more  affection  to  one  another 
when  dead,  than  when  living ;  for  they  persecute  the  living 
even  unto  death,  but  revenge  the  deceased  with  all  their 
power. 

CHAPTEE  y. 

THEIE   GEE  AT    EXACTION,    AND   WANT    OF   MODERATION. 

Where  they  find  plenty,  and  can  exercise  their  power,  they 
levy  the  most  unjust  exactions.  Immoderate  in  their  love  of 
food  and  intoxicating   drink,  they  say  with  the  ApostJei 


ECCLESIASTICAL    ABUSES  51JI 

"We  are  instructed  both  to  abound,  and  to  suifer  need;" 
but  do  not  add  with  him,  "  becoming  all  things  to  all  men, 
tliat  I  might  by  all  means  save  some."  As  in  times  of 
scarcity  their  abstinence  and  parsimony  are  too  severe,  so, 
when  seated  at  another  man's  table,  after  a  long  fasting, 
(like  wolves  and  eagles,  who,  like  them,  live  by  plunder, 
and  are  rarely  satisfied,)  their  appetite  is  immoderate.  They 
are  therefore  penurious  in  times  of  scarcity,  and  extravagant 
in  times  of  plenty  ;  but  no  man,  as  in  England,  mortgages 
his  property  for  the  gluttonous  gratification  of  his  own 
a])petit.e.  They  wish,  however,  that  all  people  would  join 
with  them  in  their  bad  habits  and  expenses  ;  as  the  com- 
mission of  crimes  reduces  to  a  level  all  those  who  are  con- 
cerned in  the  perpetration  of  them. 

CIIAPTEE  VI. 

CONCERNING    THE    CRIME    OF    INCEST,    AND    THE    ABUSE     OP 
CHURCHES    BY    SUCCESSION    AND    PARTICIPATION. 

The  crime  of  incest  hath  so  much  prevailed,  not  only  among 
the  higher,  but  among  the  lower  orders  of  this  people,  that, 
not  having  the  fear  of  God  before  their  eyes,  they  are  not 
ashamed  of  intermarrying  with  their  relations,  even  in  the 
third  degree  of  consanguinity.  They  generally  abuse  these 
dispensations  with  a  view  of  appeasing  those  enmities  which 
so  often  subsist  between  them,  because  "  their  feet  are 
swift  to  shed  blood ;"  and  from  their  love  of  high  descent, 
which  they  so  ardently  affect  and  covet,  they  unite  them- 
selves to  their  own  people,  refusing  to  intermarry  with 
strangers,  and  arrogantly  presuming  on  their  own  superiority 
of  blood  and  family.  They  do  not  engage  in  marriage, 
until  they  have  tried,  by  previous  cohabitation,  the  dispo- 
sition, and  particularly  the  fecundity,  of  the  person  with 
whom  they  are  engaged.  An  ancient  custom  also  prevails  of 
hiring  girls  from  their  parents  at  a  certain  price,  and  a 
stipulated  penalty,  in  case  of  relinquishing  their  connection. 
Their  churches  have  almost  as  many  parsons  and  sharers 
as  there  are  principal  men  in  the  parish.  The  sons,  after 
the  decease  of  their  fathers,  succeed  to  the  ecclesiastical 
benefices,  not  by  election,  but  by  hereditary  ri^i^ht  possess- 
ing and  polluting  the  sanctuary  of  God.     And  if  a  prelate 

L  L 


514!  DESCEIPTION"   OF    WALES. 

should  by  chance  presume  to  appoint  or  institute  any  other 
person,  the  people  would  certainly  revenge  the  injury  upon 
the  institutor  and  the  instituted.  With  respect  to  these 
two  excesses  of  incest  and  succession,  which  took  root  for- 
merly in  Armorica,  and  are  not  yet  eradicated,  Ildebert, 
bishop  of  Le  Mans,  in  one  of  his  epistles,  says,  "  that  he  was 
present  with  a  British  priest  at  a  council  summoned  with  a 
view  of  putting  an  end  to  the  enormities  of  this  nation  :" 
hence  it  appears  that  these  vices  have  for  a  long  time  prevailed 
both  in  Britany  and  Britain.  The  words  of  the  Psalmist 
may  not  inaptly  be  applied  to  them ;  "  They  are  corrupt  and 
become  abominable  in  their  doings,  there  is  none  that  doeth 
good,  no,  not  one :  they  are  all  gone  out  of  the  way,  they 
are  altogether  become  abominable,"  &c. 

CHAPTER  yil. 

OP   THEIE   SINS,   AND    THE    CONSEQUENT    LOSS    OE    BRITAIN 
AND    OF   TEOT. 

MoBEOVEE,  through  their  sins,  and  particularly  that  detes- 
table and  wicked  vice  of  Sodom,  as  well  as  by  divine  ven- 
geance, they  lost  Britain,  as  they  formerly  lost  Troy.  For 
we  read  in  the  Roman  history,  that  the  emperor  Constan- 
tino having  resigned  the  city  and  the  "Western  empire  to 
the  blessed  Sylvester  and  his  successors,  with  an  intention 
of  rebuilding  Troy,  and  there  establishing  the  chief  seat  of 
the  Eastern  Empire,  heard  a  voice,  saying,  "  Dost  thou  go 
to  rebuild  Sodom  ?"  upon  which,  he  altered  his  intention, 
turned  his  ships  and  standards  towards  Byzantium,  and 
there  fixing  his  seat  of  empire,  gave  his  own  propitious 
name  to  the  city.  The  British  history  informs  us,  that 
Mailgon,  king  of  the  Britons,  and  many  others,  were  ad- 
dicted to  this  vice ;  that  enormity,  however,  had  entirely 
ceased  for  so  long  a  time,  that  the  recollection  of  it  was 
nearly  worn  out.  But  since  that,  as  if  the  time  of  repen- 
tance was  almost  expired,  and  because  the  nation,  by  its  war- 
like successes  and  acquisition  of  territory,  has  in  our  times 
unusually  increased  in  population  and  strength,  they  boast  in 
their  turn,  and  most  confidently  and  unanimously  affirm,  that 
in  a  short  time  their  countrymen  shall  return  to  the  island, 
and,  according  to  the  prophecies  of  Merlin,  the  nation,  and 
even  the  name,  of  foreigners,  shall  be  extinguished  in  the 
island,  and  the  Britons  shall  exult  again  in  their  ancient 


TICES    OF   THE   WELSH.  51& 

name  and  privileges.  But  to  me  it  appears  far  otherwise  j 
for  since 

"  Luxuriant  animi  rebus  plerumque  secundis, 
Nee  facile  est  cequa  commoda  mente  pati  ;'* 

And  because 

*'  Non  habet  unde  suum  paupertas  pascat  amorem, .... 

Divitiis  alitur  luxuriosus  amor." 

So  that  their  abstinence  from  that  vice,  which  in  their  pros- 
perity they  could  not  resist,  may  be  attributed  more  justly 
to  their  poverty  and  state  of  exile  than  to  their  sense  of 
virtue.  Por  they  cannot  be  said  to  have  repented,  when 
we  see  them  involved  in  such  an  abyss  of  vices,  perjury, 
theft,  robbery,  rapine,  murders,  fratricides,  adultery,  and  in- 
cest, and  become  every  day  more  entangled  and  ensnared  in 
evil-doing ;  so  that  the  words  of  the  prophet  Hosea  may  be 
truly  applied  to  them,  "  There  is  no  truth,  nor  mercy,"  &c. 

Other  matters  of  which  they  boast  are  more  properly  to 
be  attributed  to  the  diligence  and  activity  of  the  Norman 
kings  than  to  their  own  merits  or  power.  For  previous  to 
the  coming  of  the  Normans,  when  the  English  kings  con- 
tented themselves  with  the  sovereignty  of  Britain  alone, 
and  employed  their  whole  military  force  in  the  subjugation 
of  this  people,  they  almost  wholly  extirpated  them ;  as  did 
king  Offa,  who  by  a  long  and  extensive  dyke  separated  the 
British  from  the  English ;  Ethelfrid  also,  who  demolished 
the  noble  city  of  Legions,'  and  put  to  death  the  monks  ol 
the  celebrated  monastery  at  Banchor,  who  had  been  called 
in  to  promote  the  success  of  the  Britons  by  their  prayers  ; 
and  lastly  Harold,  who  himself  on  foot,  with  an  army  of 
light-armed  infantry,  and  conforming  to  the  customary  diet 
of  the  country,  so  bravely  penetrated  through  every  part  of 
Wales,  that  he  scarcely  left  a  man  alive  in  it ;  and  as  a 
memorial  of  his  signal  victories,  many  stones  may  be  found 
in   Wales   bearing   this   inscription : — "  hic   yictoe   fuit 

HAEOLDUS" "HeEE  HAROLD  CONQUEBED."- 

'  By  the  city  of  Legions  Chester  is  here  meant,  not  Caerleon. 

5  Of  the  stones  inscribed  "hic  victoe  fuit  haeoldus" — "heee 
HAEOLD  C0NQT7EEED,"  no  original,  I  believe,  remains  extant  at  this  very 
remote  period ;  but  at  the  yirllage  of  Trelech,  in  Monmouthshire,  there 
is  a  modern  pedestal  bearing  the  above  inscription.— See  the  descriptioB 
»ad  engraving  in  Coxe's  Monmouthshire,  p.  234. 


516  DESCEIPTIOK    01-    WALES. 

To  these  bloody  and  recent  victories  of  the  English  may 
be  attributed  the  peaceable  state  of  Wales  during  the  reigna 
of  the  three  first  Norman  kings  ;  when  the  nation  increased 
in  population,  and  being  taught  the  use  of  arms  and  the 
management  of  horses  by  the  English  and  Normans  (with 
whom  they  had  much  intercourse,  by  following  the  court,  or 
by  being  sent  as  hostages),  took  advantage  of  the  necessary 
attention  which  the  three  succeeding  kings  were  obliged  to 
pay  to  their  foreign  possessions,  and  once  more  lifting  up 
their  crests,  recovered  their  lands,  and  spurned  the  yoke 
that  had  formerly  been  imposed  upon  them. 

CHAPTEE  YIII. 

IN   WHAT    MANNEE   THIS    NATION   IS    TO    BE    OVEECOMK 

The  prince  who  would  wish  to  subdue  this  nation,  and 
govern  it  peaceably,  must  use  this  method.  He  must  be 
determined  to  apply  a  diligent  and  constant  attention  to 
this  purpose  for  one  year  at  least ;  for  a  people  who  with  a 
collected  force  will  not  openly  attack  the  enemy  in  the 
field,  nor  wait  to  be  besieged  in  castles,  is  not  to  be  over- 
come at  the  first  onset,  but  to  be  worn  out  by  prudent  delay 
and  patience.  Let  him  divide  their  strength,  and  by  bribes 
and  promises  endeavour  to  stir  up  one  against  the  other, 
knowing  the  spirit  of  hatred  and  envy  which  generally  pre- 
vails amongst  them ;  and  in  the  autumn  let  not  only  the 
marches,  but  also  the  interior  part  of  the  country  be  strongly 
fortified  with  castles,  provisions,  and  confidential  families. 
In  the  meantime  the  purchase  of  corn,  cloth,  and  salt,  with 
which  they  are  usually  supplied  from  England,  should  be 
strictly  interdicted ;  and  well-manned  ships  placed  as  a  guard 
on  the  coast,  to  prevent  their  importation  of  these  articles 
from  Ireland  or  the  Severn  sea,  and  to  facilitate  the  supply 
of  his  own  army.  Afterwards,  when  the  severity  of  winter 
approaches,  when  the  trees  are  void  of  leaves,  and  the  moun- 
tains no  longer  afford  pasturage — when  they  are  deprived 
of  any  hopes  of  plunder,  and  harassed  on  every  side  by  the 
repeated  attacks  of  the  enemy — let  a  body  of  light-armed 
infantry  penetrate  into  their  woody  and  mountainous  re- 
treats, and  let  these  troops  be  supported  and  relieved  by 
others;  and  thus  by  frequent  changes,  and  replacing  the 
men  who  are  either  fatigued  or  slain  in  battle,  this  natioii 


HOW    THE    WELSH    MAY    BE    OYEECOME.  517 

may  he  ultimately  subdued ;  nor  can  it  be  overcome  without 
the  above  precautions,  nor  without  great  danger  and  loss  of 
men.  Though  many  of  the  English  hired  troops  may  perish 
in  a  day  of  battle,  money  will  procure  as  many  or  more  on 
the  morrow  for  the  same  service ;  but  to  the  Welsh,  who 
have  neither  foreign  nor  stipendiary  troops,  the  loss  is  for 
the  time  irreparable.  In  these  matters,  therefore,  as  an 
artificer  is  to  be  trusted  in  his  trade,  so  attention  is  to  be 
paid  to  the  counsel  of  those  who,  having  been  long  conver- 
sant in  similar  concerns,  are  become  acquainted  with  the 
manners  and  customs  of  their  country,  and  whom  it  greatly 
interests,  that  an  enemy,  for  whom  during  long  and  frequent 
conflicts  they  have  contracted  an  implacable  hatred,  should 
by  their  assistance  be  either  weakened  or  destroyed.  Happy 
should  I  have  termed  the  borders  of  Wales  inhabited  by  the 
English,  if  their  kings,  in  the  government  of  these  parts, 
and  in  their  military  operations  against  the  enemy,  had 
rather  employed  the  marchers  and  barons  of  the  country, 
than  adopted  the  counsels  and  policy  of  the  people  of  Anjou 
and  the  Normans.  In  this,  as  well  as  in  every  other  mili- 
tary expedition,  either  in  Ireland  or  in  Wales,  the  natives 
of  the  marches,  from  the  constant  state  of  warfare  in  which 
they  are  engaged,  and  whose  manners  are  formed  from  the 
habits  of  war,  are  bold  and  active,  skilful  on  horseback, 
quick  on  foot,  not  nice  as  to  their  diet,  and  ever  prepared 
when  necessity  requires  to  abstain  both  from  corn  and  wine. 
By  such  men  were  the  first  hostile  attacks  made  upon  Wales 
as  well  as  Ireland,  and  by  such  men  alone  can  their  final 
conquest  be  accomplished.  Eor  the  Flemings,  Normans, 
Coterells,  and  Bragmans,  are  good  and  well-disciplined  sol- 
diers in  their  own  country  ;  but  the  Gallic  soldiery  is  known 
to  diff'er  much  from  the  Welsh  and  Irish.  In  their  country 
the  battle  is  on  level,  here  on  rough  ground ;  there  in  an 
open  field,  here  in  forests  ;  there  they  consider  their  armour 
as  an  honour,  here  as  a  burden  ;  there  soldiers  are  taken 
prisoners,  here  they  are  beheaded ;  there  they  are  ransomed, 
here  they  are  put  to  death.  AVhere,  therefore,  the  armies 
engage  in  a  flat  country,  a  heavy  and  complex  armour,  made 
of  cloth  and  iron,  both  protects  and  decorates  the  soldier ; 
but  when  the  engagement  is  in  narrow  defiles,  in  woods  or 
marshes,  where  the  infimtry  have  the  advantage  over  the 
cayalry,  a  light  armour  is  preferable.     For  "light  arms  afford 


518  DESCEIPTION   or   WALES. 

sufficient  protection  against  unarmed  men,  by  whom  victory 
is  either  lost  or  won  at  the  first  onset ;  where  it  is  necessary 
that  an  active  and  retreating  enemy  should  be  overcome  by 
a  certain  proportional  quantity  of  moderate  armour ;  whereas 
with  a  more  complex  sort,  and  with  high  and  curved  saddles, 
it  is  difficult  to  dismount,  more  so  to  mount,  and  with  the 
greatest  difficulty  can  such  troops  march,  if  required,  with 
the  infantry.     In  order,  therefore,  that 

"  Singula  quseque  locma  teneant  sortita  decenter," 

we  maintain  it  is  necessary  to  employ  heavy-armed  and 
strong  troops  against  men  heavily  armed,  depending  entirely 
upon  their  natural  strength,  and  accustomed  to  fight  in  an 
open  plain ;  but  against  light-armed  and  active  troops,  whc 
prefer  rough  ground,  men  accustomed  to  such  conflicts,  and 
armed  in  a  similar  manner,  must  be  employed.  But  let  the 
cities  and  fortresses  on  the  Severn,  and  the  whole  territory  on 
its  western  banks  towards  Wales,  occupied  by  the  English, 
as  well  as  the  provinces  of  Shropshire  and  Cheshire,  which 
are  protected  by  powerful  armies,  or  by  any  other  special 
privileges  and  honourable  independence,  rejoice  in  the  pro- 
vident bounty  of  their  prince.  There  should  be  a  yearly 
examination  of  the  warlike  stores,  of  the  arms,  and  horses, 
by  good  and  discreet  men  deputed  for  that  purpose,  and 
who,  not  intent  upon  its  plunder  and  ruin,  interest  them- 
selves in  the  defence  and  protection  of  their  country.  By 
these  salutary  measures,  the  soldiers,  citizens,  and  the  whole 
mass  of  the  people,  being  instructed  and  accustomed  to  the 
use  of  arms,  liberty  may  be  opposed  by  liberty,  and  pride 
be  checked  by  pride.  Eor  the  Welsh,  who  are  neither  worn 
out  by  laborious  burdens,  nor  molested  by  the  exactions  of 
their  lords,  are  ever  prompt  to  avenge  an  injury.  Hence 
arise  their  distinguished  bravery  in  the  defence  of  their 
country  ;  hence  their  readiness  to  take  up  arms  and  to  rebel. 
Nothing  so  much  excites,  encourages,  and  invites  the  hearts 
of  men  to  probity  as  the  cheerfulness  of  liberty ;  nothing 
so  much  dejects  and  dispirits  them  as  the  oppression  of 
servitude.  This  portion  of  the  kingdom,  protected  by  arms 
and  courage,  might  be  of  great  use  to  the  prince,  not  only 
in  these  or  the  adjacent  parts,  but,  if  necessity  required,  in 
more  remote  regions  ;  and  although  the  public  treasury 
might  receive  a  smaller  annual  revenue  from  these  pro 


now  WALES  SHOULD  BE  GOVERNED.        519 

vinces,  yet  the  deficiency  would  be  abundantly  compensated 
by  the  peace  of  the  kingdom  and  the  honour  of  its  sove- 
reign ;  especially  as  the  heavy  and  dangerous  expenses  ot 
one  military  expedition  into  Wales  usually  amount  to  the 
whole  income  arising  from  the  revenues  of  the  province. 

CHAPTEE  IX. 

i:S    WHAT    MANlfER    WALES,  WHEN    CONQUERED,  SHOULD    BE 
GOVERNED. 

As  therefore  this  nation  is  to  be  subdued  by  resolution  in 
the   manner  proposed,  so  when   subdued,  its  government 
must  be  directed  by  moderation,  according  to  the  following 
plan.     Let  the  care  of  it  be  committed  to  a  man  of  a  firm  and 
determined  mind  ;  who  during  the  time  of  peace,  by  payiug 
due  obedience  to  the  laws,  and  respect  to  the  government, 
may  render  it  firm  and  stable.     Eor,  like  other  nations  in  a 
barbarous  state,  this  people,  although  they  are  strangers  to 
the  principles  of  honour,  yet  above  all  things  desire  to  be 
honoured ;  and  approve  and  respect  in  others  that  truth 
which  they  themselves  do  not  profess.    Whenever  the  natu- 
ral inconstancy  of  their  indisposition  shall  induce  them  to 
revolt,  let  punishment  instantly  follow  the  offence ;  but  when 
they  shall  have  submitted  themselves  again  to  order,  and 
made  proper  amends  for  their  faults  (as  it  is  the  custom  of 
bad  men  to  remember  wrath  after  quarrels,)  let  their  former 
transgression  be  overlooked,  and  let  them  enjoy  security  and 
respect,  as  long  as  they  continue  faithful.     Thus,  by  mild 
treatment,  they  will  be  invited  to  obedience  and  the  love  of 
peace,  and  the  thought   of  certain  punishment  will  deter 
them  from  rash  attempts.     We  have  often  observed  persons 
who,  confounding  these  matters,  by  complaining  of  faults, 
depressing   for   services,   flattering   in   war,  plundering  in 
peace,  despoiling  the  weak,  paying  respect  to  revolters,  by 
thus  rendering  all  things  confused,  have  at  length  been  con- 
founded themselves.     Besides,  as  circumstances  which  are 
foreseen  do  less  mischief,  and  as  that  state  is  happy  which 
thinks  of  war  in  the  time  of  peace,  let  the  wise  man  be 
upon  his  guard,  and  prepared  against   the  approaching  in- 
convenie4iees  of  war,  by  the  construction  of  forts,  the  widen- 
ing of  passes  through  woods,  and  the  providing  of  a  trusty 
household.  For  those  who  are  cherished  and  sustained  during 


f»20  DESCRIPTION    OF    WALES. 

the  time  of  peace,  are  more  ready  to  come  forward  in  times 
of  danger,  and  are  more  confidently  to  be  depended  upon ; 
and  as  a  nation  unsubdued  ever  meditates  plots  under  the 
disguise  of  friendship,  let  not  the  prince  or  his  governor 
entrust  the  protection  of  liis  camp  or  capital  to  their  fidelity. 
By  the  examples  of  many  remarkable  men,  some  of  whom  have 
been  cruelly  put  to  death,  and  others  deprived  of  their  castles 
and  dignities,  through  their  own  neglect  and  want  of  care, 
we  may  see,  that  the  artifices  of  a  crafty  and  subdued  nation 
are  much  more  to  be  dreaded  than  their  open  warfare  ;  their 
good-will  than  their  anger,  their  honey  than  their  gall,  their 
malice  than  their  attack,  their  treachery  than  their  aggres- 
sion, and  their  pretended  friendship  more  than  their  open 
enmity.  A  prudent  and  provident  man  therefore  should 
contemplate  in  the  misfortune  of  others  what  he  ought  him- 
self to  avoid ;  correction  taught  by  example  is  harmless,  as 
Ennodius^  says :  "  The  ruin  of  predecessors  instructs  those 
who  succeed ;  and  a  former  miscarriage  becomes  a  future 
caution."  If  a  well-disposed  prince  should  wish  these  great 
designs  to  be  accomplished  without  the  eflTusion  of  blood, 
the  marches,  as  we  before  mentioned,  must  be  put  into  a 
state  of  defence  on  all  sides,  and  all  intercourse  by  sea  and 
land  interdicted ;  some  of  the  AVelsh  may  be  stirred  up  to 
deadly  feuds,  by  means  of  stipends,  and  by  trausferring  the 
property  of  one  person  to  another  :  and  thus  worn  out  with 
hunger,  and  a  want  of  the  necessaries  of  life,  and  harassed 
by  frequent  murders  and  implacable  enmities,  they  will  at 
last  be  compelled  to  surrender. 

There  are  three  things  which  ruin  this  nation,  and  prevent 
its  enjoying  the  satisfaction  of  a  fruitful  progeny.  First,  be- 
cause both  the  natural  and  legitimate  sons  endeavour  to 
divide  the  paternal  inheritance  amongst  themselves  ;  from 
which  cause,  as  we  have  before  observed,  continual  fratri- 
cides take  place.  Secondly,  because  the  education  of  their 
sons  is  committed  to  the  care  of  the  high-born  people  of 
the  country,  who,  on  the  death  of  their  fathers,  endeavour 
by  all  possible  means  to  exalt  their  pupil ;  from  whence 
arise  murders,  conflagrations,  and  almost  a  total  destruction 
of  the  country.     And,  thirdly,  because  from  the  pride  and 

^  In  one  MS.  of  Giraldus  in  the  British  Museum,  this  name  ia 
written  Ovidius. 


HOW   THEY    MAT    EESIST   AND    EETOLT.  521 

obstinacy  of  their  disposition,  they  will  not  (like  other 
nations)  subject  themselves  to  the  dominion  of  one  lord  and 
king. 

CHAPTEE  X. 

IN  WHAT   MANNER    THIS   NATION    MAY    RESIST  AND    BEYOLT. 

Having  hitherto  so   partially  and  elaborately  spoken  in 
favour  of  the  English,  and  being  equally  connected  by  birth 
with  each  nation,  justice  demands  that  we  should  argue  on 
both  sides ;  let  us  therefore,  at  the  close  of  our  work,  turn 
our  attention  towards  the  Welsh,  and  briefly,  but  eff'ectually, 
instruct  them  in  the  art  of  resistance.     If  the  Welsh  were 
more  commonly  accustomed  to  the  Grallic  mode  of  arming, 
and  depended  more  on  steady  fighting  than  on  their  agility  ; 
if  their  princes  were  unanimous  and  inseparable  in  their 
defence  ;  or  rather,  if  they  had  only  one  prince,  and  that  a 
good  one ;  this  nation,  situated  in  so  powerful,  strong,  and 
inaccessible  a  country,  could  hardly  ever  be  completely  over- 
come.    If,  therefore,  they  would  be  inseparable,  they  would 
become  insuperable,  being  assisted  by  these  three   circum- 
stances ;  a  country  well  defended  by  nature,  a  people  both 
contented  and  accustomed  to  live  upon  little,  a  community 
whose  nobles  as  well  as  privates  are  instructed  in  the  use  of 
arms;  and  especially  as  the  English  fight  for  power,  the 
Welsh  for  liberty  j  the  one  to  procure  gain,  the  other  to 
avoid  loss ;    the  English  hirelings   for  money,  the  Welsh 
patriots  for  their  country.     The  English,  I  say,  fight  in 
order  to  expel  the  natural  inhabitants  from  the  island,  and 
secure  to  themselves  the  possession  of  the  whole ;    but  the 
Welsh  maintain  the  conflict,  that  they,  who  have  so  long  en- 
joyed the  sovereignty  of  the  whole  kingdom,  may  at  least 
find  a  hiding  place  in  the  worst  corner  of  it,  amongst  woods 
and  marshes ;  and,  banished,  as  it  were,  for  their  oflfences, 
may  there  in  a  state  of  poverty,  for  a  limited  time,  perform 
penance  for  the  excesses  they  committed  in  the  days  of  their 
prosperity.     For  the  perpetual  remembrance  of  their  for- 
mer greatness,  the  recollection  of  their  Trojan  descent,  and 
the  high  and  continued  majesty  of  the  kingdom  of  Britain, 
may  draw  forth  many  a  latent  spark  of  animosity,  and  en- 
courage the  daring  spirit  of  rebellion.     Hence  during  the 
military  expedition  which  kin^  Henry  H.made  in  our  days 


522  DESCEIPTIUN    OF    WALES. 

agaiust  South  "Wales,  an  old  "Welshman  at  Pencadair,  who 
had  faithfully  adhered  to  him,  being  desired  to  give  his 
opinion  about  the  royal  army,  and  whether  he  thought  that 
of  the  rebels  would  make  resistance,  and  what  would  be  the 
final  event  of  this  war,  replied,  "  This  nation,  O  king,  may 
now,  as  in  former  times,  be  harassed,  and  in  a  great  measure 
weakened  and  destroyed  by  your  and  other  powers,  and  it 
will  often  prevail  by  its  laudable  exertions;  but  it  can 
never  be  totally  subdued  through  the  wrath  of  man,  unless 
the  wrath  of  (rod  shall  concur.  Nor  do  I  think,  that  any 
other  nation  than  this  of  Wales,  or  any  other  language, 
whatever  may  hereafter  come  to  pass,  shall,  in  the  day  of 
severe  examination  before  the  Supreme  Judge,  answer  for 
this  corner  of  the  earth." 


ESD   OF   THE    DESCEIPTIOIf    OF    WAIEB 


INDEX. 


AaEEaAYENNi,  cruelties  perpe- 
trated at,  by  William  de  Braose, 
367. 

Aberteivi,  now  Cardigan,  432. 

Adrian,  pope,  his  grant  of  Ireland 
to  Henry  II.,  260. 

Alba  Domus,  Cistercian  Monas- 
tery, 396  ;  its  ruins,  397. 

Alliteration,  its  use  by  the  Welsh, 
496. 

Almedha,  St.,  anniversary  of,  349 ; 
its  strange  effect  on  profane  per- 
sons, ib. 

Animals,  wild,  of  Ireland,  43. 

Archbishoprics,  foundation  of,  in 
Ireland,  133. 

Archers,  profane,  punishment  of, 
94,  106,  108,  109. 

Aren,  legend  of  the  island  of,  64. 

Armagh,  Synod  of,  215  ;  orders  all 
EngHsh  slaves  to  be  set  at  li- 
beity,  216. 

Armour,  despised  by  the  Irish,  123. 

Arthiu",  king,  Roman  ambassadors 
received  by  him  at  Caerleon, 
373  ;  the  kings  of  Ireland  tri- 
butary to  him,  262. 

Augustine,  places  Thule  in  India, 
78  J  on  monsters,  82  ;  on  music, 
131. 

Awenydhyon,  or  people  inspired, 
501. 

Axe,  carried  by  the  Irish  by  way 
of  a  staff,  135. 

B.M.,  explanation  of,  481. 

Badger,  the,  its  habits,  44. 

Bagabun,  promontory  of,  the  sup- 
posed place  of  Fitz-Stephen's 
landing,  186. 

Bala,  lake  of,  460. 

Baldwin,    archbishop    of   Canter? 


bury,  his  jouiniey  through  Wales 
to  preach  the  Crusade,  331 ;  his 
character  and  death,  369. 

Baldwin,  abbot  of  Ford,  his  visit 
to  Wales,  417. 

Bangor,  the  metropolitan  see  of 
North  Wales,  443. 

Bangor  (or  Banchor),  the  college 
of  priests,  443,  515. 

Bangu,  a  bell,  said  to  have  be- 
longed to  St.  David,  336. 

Banne,  Fitz-Stephen  and  his  forces 
land  at  the,  190. 

Bardsey  Island,  441. 

Barnacles,  their  nature  and  growth, 
36. 

Barri,  Philip  de,  his  arrival  in  Ire- 
land, 287. 

Barri,  Robert  de,  his  character,  194. 

Bartholanus,  his  settlement  in  Ire- 
land, 114. 

Basclenses,  their  settlement  in  Ire- 
land, 120. 

Basilia,  the  sister  of  Strongbow, 
married  to  Raymond,  257  ;  her 
letter,  annoimcing  Strongbow's 
death,  272. 

Basinwerk,  cell  of,  457. 

Bede,  his  accovmt  of  Ireland,  19, 
21,  49. 

Bells  and  pastoral  staves,  venera- 
tion of  the  Irish  for,  146. 

Benedictine  Order,  its  corruption, 
359,  362. 

Beaver,  the,  described,  44;  not 
found  in  Ireland,  45  ;  further  de- 
scribed as  it  existed  in  Wales,  4  29  j 
habits,  430. 

Bernard,  bishop  of  St  David's,  418. 

Bernard  the  priest,  his  punish* 
ment,  147. 

Birds  pf  Ireland,  26,  37,  39  i  fen 


524 


INDEX. 


in  number,  and  many  species 
wanting,  42. 

Bishops,  the  Irish,  their  neglect  of 
their  duties,  143. 

Bishops'  palaces  in  Wales,  usually 
fortified,  398. 

Black  Mountains,  the,  353. 

Boars,  wild,  in  Ireland,  43. 

Book  miraculously  written,  story 
of  a,  99. 

Braccanus,  prophecy  of,  313. 

Braose,  Philip  de,  his  abortive  ex- 
pedition against  Limerick,  285. 

Braose,  WiUiara  de,  story  of,  339  ; 
his  afiected  devotion,  340 ;  his 
cruelty,  367  ;  narrowly  escapes 
death,  370. 

Brecheinoc,  legend  of  the  lake  of, 
351. 

Brendan,  St.,  hfe  of,  103  j  his 
wonderful  voyages,  ib. 

Brigit's,  St.,  fire,  legend  of,  96 ; 
her  falcon,  98  ;  her  hedge,  97  ; 
judgments  on  men  attempting 
to  break  through  it,  107. 

Bristol  a  mart  of  the  slave  trade 
in  the  Anglo-Saxon  and  early 
Anglo-Norman  times,  216. 

Britons,  the  three  remaining  tribes 
of,  479. 

Bromfield,  college  of  secular  ca- 
nons at,  467. 

Brutus,  fable  of,  479. 

Brychan,  an  early  British  prince, 
348  ;  his  twenty-four  daughters, 
349. 

Buelt,  history  of  the  lord  of,  334. 

Cadair  Arthur,  a  mountam,  353. 

Cador,  his  devout  ingenuity,  389. 

Cadwallan  murders  his  brother 
Owen,  385  ;  his  own  death,  ib, 

Caerleon,  history  of,  372. 

Caermardyn,  the  reputed  birth- 
place of  Merlin,  394. 

Caernarvon,  ancient  names  of,  442. 

Csesara,  granddaughter  of  Noah, 
her  arrival  in  Ireland  before  the 
Flood,  113. 

Cambria,  origin  of  the  name,  489. 

Canauc's,  St.,  collar,  343. 


Capercailzie,  .,he,  35. 
Caradoc,  St.,  story  of,  401. 
Cardifi",    king  Henry   II.   at,  240^ 

380 ;  exploit  of  Ivor  the  Little 

at,  379. 
Cashel,  constitutions  of  the  synod 

of,  232. 
Cashel,  archbishop  ofj  his  sarcastic 

allusion  to  the  death  of  Becket, 

145. 
Castles,  early,  in  Ireland,  149. 
Chester,  460  J  legend  of  king  Harold 

at,  461. 
Chester,    Hugh,   earl   of,    ravages 

Mona,  447. 
Chiltern    Hills,    meaning    of   the 

name,  65. 
Christchurch    Cathedral,    Dublin, 

273. 
Cistercian   Order,    its  corruption, 

359,  362  ;  reformation,  363. 
Clare,  Richard  de,  murder  of,  365. 
Clare,  Richard    de,   liis    son.    See 

Strongbow. 
Clement,  St.,  legend  of,  92. 
Clergy,  the  Irish,  their  many  laud» 

able  qualities,  141. 
CliflFord,  Walter  de,  father  of  Fair 

Rosamond,  347. 
Climate  of  Ireland,  51. 
Cluniac  Order,  its  corruption,  362. 
Coed  Grono,  murder  of  Richard 

de  Clare  at,  365. 
Cogan,  Milo  de,  appointed  gover- 
nor of  Dublin,  215  ;  defeats  Has- 

culf  8  attack  on  the  city,  220 ; 

puts  him  to  death,  ib.  ;  defeats 

O'Roric,  228;  receives  a  grant 

of  part  of  the  kingdom  of  Cork, 

284 ;  is  killed,.  286. 
Cogan,  Richard  de,  assists  in  the 

defence   of    Dublin,   220 ;    sent 

into  Ireland  after  his  brother's 

death,  287. 
Coleshulle,  Henry  II.  defeated  at, 

305,  457. 
Colman,  St.,  legend  of  his  teals,  93. 
Columba,  prophecy  of,  279. 
Comyn,  John,  archbishop  of  Dub- 
lin, his  arrival  in  Ireland,  294. 
Cona:  ,  family  of,  43^ 


iND?:s:. 


525 


Connauglit,  kingdom  of,  153. 

Coiistantius,  body  of,  said  to  be 
found  at  Caernarvon,  442. 

Contemporary  events,  notice  of, 
304. 

Convent,  its  number  of  inmates  ori* 
ginally  limited  to  tliirteen,  93. 

Conway,  the  river,  popular  error 
concerning,  451, 

Coracles,  described,  139,  506. 

Coriuseus,  fable  of,  479. 

Cork,  the  king  of,  makes  his  sub- 
mission to  Henry  II.,  230  ;  re- 
ceives help  against  his  son,  271 ; 
puts  him  to  death,  ib. ;  takes  up 
arms  against  Fitz-Stephen,  286. 

Cuurcy,  John  de,  one  of  the  con- 
querors of  Ireland,  273  ;  his  in- 
roads on  the  enemy,  277 ;  his 
battles,  281 ;  his  character,  ib. ; 
his  activity,  318. 

Crane,  nature  and  habits  of  the,  34. 

Cross,  legend  of  one  that  spoke, 
103. 

Crow,  nature  and  habits  of  the,  41. 

Crowth,  the  musical  instrument, 
127. 

Currents  and  tides  in  the  Irish  sea, 
59. 

Cyneuric,  son  of  Rhys,  his  noble 
appearance,  433. 

Cyric,  St.,  staflf  of,  its  miraculous 
powers,  335. 

Dalreadic  colony,  the,  133. 

Damianus,  507. 

Danes'  forts  or  raths,  149. 

Danish  battle-axes,  123. 

David,  King,  the  inventor  of  the 
psaltery,  131. 

David's,  St.,  visit  of  Archbishop 
Baldwin  to,  413  ;  history  of  the 
see,  414 ;  its  archbishops  and 
bishops,  416  ;  the  cathedral,  419. 

Daugledheu,  meaning  of,  398. 

Dealgnait,  the  wife  of  Partholan, 
140. 

Dean,  forest  of,  371. 
Ce  Doloribus,  monastery  of,  cause 
of  its  foundation,  401 


Dee,  superstition  connected  with 

the  fords  of  the  river,  460. 
Dela,  sons  of,  their  settlement  ir. 

Ireland,  117. 
Demetia,  or  South  Wales,  407,  479. 
Dendraeth,  castle  of,  not  now  to 
be  recognised,  439. 

Dermitius  (Dermot),  prince  of  Lein- 
ster,  obliged  to  seek  refuge  in 
England,  185  ;  is  favourably  re- 
ceived by  Henry  II ,  ib.;  pro- 
cures military  aid  from  Strong- 
bow,  186 ;  and  from  the  Fitz- 
Stephens,  188 ;  returns  to  Ire- 
land, ib. ;  joins  Fitz-Stephen's 
forces  at  the  Banne,  191 ;  his 
barbarous  conduct  after  a  battle, 
193  ;  the  whole  country  leagued 
against  him  and  his  allies,  196 ; 
retires  with  them  to  Ferns,  ib. ; 
his  character,  ih. ;  his  speech  to 
his  troops,  1 99 ;  a  temporary 
peace  made  with  Roderic, 
201 ;  aspii-es  to  the  monarchy 
of  all  Ireland,  204;  marries  his 
daughter  Eva  to  Strongbow, 
212 ;  his  son  put  to  death  by 
Roderic,  king  of  Connaught, 
215. 

Dermitius,  king  of  Cork,  his  sub- 
mission to  Henry  II.,  230. 

Dei-vorgilla,  tlie  faithless  wife  of 
O'Roric,  prince  of  Meath,  184. 

Devi,  the  river,  tlie  boundary  be- 
tween North  and  South  Wales, 
437. 

Dinas  Emrys,  the  scene  of  some  of 
Merlin's  propliecies,  452. 

Dinevor,  castle  of,  395  ;  stratagem 
of  a  priest  to  deceive  the  king's 
envoy,  396. 

Dog,  instances  of  the  fidelity  of 
the,  385 

Dogmael,  St.,  monastery  of,  425. 

Down,  bodies  of  three  saints  found 
there,  134. 

Dress  of  the  Irish,  122  j  of  the 
Welsh,  493. 

Dublin,  siege  of,  by  Fitzgerald, 
203  J  its  capture,  214 ;  atteirpti 


62G 


INDEX, 


of  Hasculf  and  Roderic  to  ro-  ' 

take  it,  219,  221  ;  king  Henry's  j 

court  there,  231. 
Dublin,  synod  of,  282. 
Dundunolf,  battle  of,  206. 
Dunlerus,  king  of  Ulster,  278. 
Durenald,  king  of  Limerick,    h's 

submission  to  Henry  II.,  230  ; 

repels  and  defeats  the  invaders, 

257. 

Eagle,  nature  of  the,  30;  tradi- 
tion of  one,  on  Snowdon,  455. 

Eastern  lands,  their  unliealthiness, 
52  ;  venomous  reptiles,  53  ; 
treachery  of  their  inhabitants,  54. 

Ebbing  spring  near  Ruthlan,  456. 

Eleutherius,  pope,  sends  Fa- 
ganus  and  Damianus  to  Britain, 
507. 

Elidorus  and  the  fairies,  390. 

Elk,  the  Irish,  43. 

England  threatened  with  an  inter- 
dict on  account  of  the  mvurder 
of  Becket,  238. 

Enoch,  the  abbot  of  Strata  Mar- 
cella,  375. 

Eryri,  (Snowdon)  mountains  of, 
453  ;    and  floating  island,  454. 

Ethelfrid  slays  the  monks  of  Ban- 
gor, 515. 

Eva,  daughter  of  Dermitius,  given 
in  marriage  to  Strongbow,  212. 

Ewyas,  vale  of,  354. 

Faganus,  507. 

Fairies,  the,  and  Elidorus,  390. 

Falcons,  various  kinds  of,  29,  42  ; 

the  ignoble  breeds  not  found  in 

Ireland,  42. 
FedHmidius,  king,  Ireland  invaded 

by  the  Norwegians  in  his  time, 

148. 
Ferns,  Dermitius  and  his  Norman 

allies  fortify  a  fort  near,  196. 
Ferrand,  William,   the  leper,   his 

undaunted  courage,  207.  j 

Fertility  of  Ireland,  20.  I 

Firbolgs,  early  settlers  in  Ireland, 

117. 


Finnius',  St.,  bear,  91. 

Fish,  with  golden  teeth,  legend  o<i 
72  ;  with  one  eye  0)dy,  found  in 
a  lake  on  Snowdon,  455. 

Fishes  of  Ireland,  25. 

Fishes,  combat  of,  337. 

Fitz-Aidelm,  William,  accompa- 
nies king  Henry  to  Ireland,  231  ; 
made  governor,  273  ;  his  cha- 
racter, 276 ;  recalled,  283 

Fitzgerald,  Maurice,  half-brother 
of  Robert  Fitz-Stephen,  lands  in 
Ireland,  202  ;  his  character,  203, 
246  ;  saves  the  life  of  Hugh  de 
Lacy,  243. 

Fitzgerald,  Raymond,  defeats  tlie 
men  of  W^aterford  at  Dundu- 
nolf, 206;  his  speech,  208; 
appointed  commander  of  the 
troops,  255  ;  his  successes,  256  ; 
relieves  Waterford, where  Strong- 
bow  is  besieged,  258;  marries 
Basilia,  the  sister  of  Strongbow, 
ib.  ;  captures  Limerick,  263  ;  his 
character,  265  ;  receives  news  of 
the  death  of  Strongbow,  272 ; 
acts  as  lieutenant-governor  of 
Ireland,  273  ;  relieves  Fitz-Ste- 
phen, when  blockaded  in  Cork, 
287. 

Fitz-Hamon,  Robert,  founds  the 
abbey  of  Tewkesbury,  379. 

Fitz-Other,  Giraldus  de,  his  de- 
fence of  Pembroke  Castle,  405  ; 
marries  Nesta,  the  sister  of  Gruf- 
fydh,  prince  of  South  Wales,  ib. 

Fitz-Stephen,  Robert,  agrees  to 
assist  Dermitius,  187  ;  lands  in 
Ireland,  190 ;  captures  Wexford, 
192  ;  it  is  granted  to  him  and 
Prendergast,  193 ;  fortifies  a 
post  near  Ferns,  196 ;  his  speech 
to  his  troops,  200 ;  builds  a  fort 
near  Wexford,  203  ;  is  besieged 
there,  222;  taken  prisoner  by 
treachery,  225  ;  his  character,  ib. ; 
is  released  by  the  Irish,  but  again 
imprisoned  by  king  Henry,  229  ; 
released  on  sunendering  tl^.o 
town    of  Wexford,  230 ;  has  a 


I^DEX. 


527 


grant  of  ])art  of  the  kingdom  of  Glanville,   Kanulph  de,  goes  -with 


Cork,  284 ;  rising  of  the  people 
against  him,  286  ;  is  reheved  by- 
Raymond,  287. 

Fitz-Walter,  Mahel,  persecutes  the 
bishop  of  St.  David's,  347  ;  his 
penitence  and  death,  348. 

Fitz-Walter,  Milo,  his  jocular  chal- 
lenge to  G-rulfydh  ap  Rhys,  351. 

Flemings,  the,  in  Wales,  399, 401 ; 
their  superstitions,  403 


prince  John  to  Ireland,  310; 
accompanies  archbishop  Bald- 
win into  Wales,  332. 

Gloucester,  Robert,  earl  of,  notice 
of,  379. 

Gloucester,  William,  earl  of,  his 
wife  and  child  carried  off  by 
Ivor  the  Little,  380. 

Godred,  king  of  Man,  221. 

Gower,  the  district  of,  389. 


Fostering,  custom  of,  in  Ireland,    Grasshoppers,     wonderful     state 


137  ;  m  Wales,  512 

Flux,  strangers  in  Ireland  subject 
to,  51. 

Fomorians,  the,  pirates,  116. 

Fountains,  wonderful  natures  of 
some,  65. 

Frederick,  the  emperor,  takes  the 
cross,  301. 

Frog,  story  of  one  foiuid  in  Ire- 
land, 50. 

Fulke,  a  priest,  his  speech  to 
Richard  I.,  362. 

Gaidelus,  the  son  of  Nial,  120. 

Galeia,  a  very  venomous  reptile,  53. 

Geese,  wild,  in  Ireland,  43. 

Genealogies  among  the  Welsh,  505. 

Genealogy  of  the  princes  of  Wales, 
480. 

Geoffrey,  son  of  Henry  II,,  cha- 
racter of,  162  J  his  death,  292. 

Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  his  history 
denounced  as  fabulous,  489. 

Germanus  of  Auxerre,  507. 

Giants'  dance,  the,  legend  of  its 
transfer  from  Ireland  to  Bri- 
tain, 78. 

Gildas,  his  work  on  Britain 
praised,  473. 

Giraldus  Cambrensis  (the  author) 
takes  Gildas  as  his  model,  473  ; 
accompanies  liis  relatives,  the 
Fitzgeralds,  to  Ireland,  202  ;  se- 
cretary to  prince  John  in  Ire- 
land, 310  ;  accompanies  archbi- 
shop Baldwin  into  Wales  to 
preach  the  Crusade,  332 ;  his 
friend,  Walter  Mapes,  177. 


ments  respecting,  40. 
Griffith  ap  Conan  introduces  Irish 

musicians  into  Wales,  127. 
Gruffyth  ap  Rhys,  his  history,  350  ; 

legend  concerning  him,  351. 
Guaidanus,  a  priest,  sti'atagem  of, 

396. 
Gurgimtius,  king  of  the  Britons, 

120. 
Gurmund,  the  asserted  conqueror 

of  Ireland,  149. 

Harold,  legend  of  king,  461. 

Harp,  playing  on  the,  in  high  es- 
teem with  the  Welsh,  492. 

Harp  of  Brian  Boroimhe,  128. 

Hasculf,  king  of  Dublin,  214;  is  de- 
feated in  an  attempt  to  recapture 
the  city,  220  ;  put  to  death,  ib. 

Haverford,  miracle  following  arch- 
bishop Baldwin's  preaching  at,. 
399  ;  story  of  a  robber  confined 
in  the  castle  of,  ib. 

Hay,  castle  of,  337 ;  the  Crusade 
preached  there,  ib. 

Heber  slain  by  his  brother  Heri- 
mon,  119. 

Hebrides,  the,  subjugated  by  the 
Norwegians,  73. 

Henry  II.,  king  of  England,  titles 
and  triumphs  of,  155  ;  his  sons, 
157 ;  his  daughters,  164 ;  his 
proclamation,  ordering  Strong- 
bow  and  his  associates  to  aban- 
don Ireland,  216  ;  is  appeased, 
and  resolves  to  go  to  Ireland 
himself,  227 ;  lands  at  Water- 
ford,  229  J  submission  of  many 


62S 


INDEX. 


of  the  Irish  princes,  230  ;  keeps 
his  Christmas  in  Dublin,  231; 
detained  in  Ireland  by  bad  wea- 
ther, 236  ;  rebellion  of  his  sons, 
ib.  ;  lands  in  Wales,  and  pro- 
ceeds to  St.  David's  as  a  pilgrim, 
237  ;  crosses  the  Speaking-stone, 
238 ;  makes  terms  with  the  papal 
legates  and  the  king  of  France, 
239  ;  his  vision  at  CardiflP,  240 ; 
his  war  with  his  sons,  247  ;  his 
victories,  248 ;  his  penance  at 
Canterbury,  ib. ;  his  personal  ap- 
pearance and  character,  249  ;  pa- 
pal bull  in  favour  of  his  claims 
on  Ireland,  260  ;  deaths  of  his 
sons  Henry  and  Geoffrey,  292  ; 
his  reply  to  the  patriarch  of  Je- 
rusalem, 296  ;  discord  with  his 
son  Richard  and  the  king  of 
France,  298,  300;  his  military 
expeditions  against  Wales,  458 ; 
his  account  of  the  courage  of  the 
Welsh,  491. 

Henry  III.  (son  of  Henry  II.), 
character  of,  157 ;  his  rebelhon 
against  his  father,  236 ;  his 
death,  292. 

Henry  de  Londres  extinguishes  St. 
Brigit's  fire,  97. 

Herachus,  the  patriarch,  his  arrival 
in  England,  295 ;  his  proposals 
to  Henry  II.,  ib. ;  his  prophetical 
threats  on  the  king's  refusal,  297. 

Herimon  slays  his  brother  Heber, 
and  becomes  sole  king  of  Ire- 
land, 119. 

Holy  Isle,  legend  of  the,  62. 

Horn  of  St.  Patrick,  146 

Hospitality  among  the  Welsh,  492. 

Iceland,  virtues  ascribed  to  the  in- 
habitants of,  74.. 

Incestuoiis  marriages  among  the 
Welsh,  333,  453,  513. 

Interdict,  England  threatened  with 
an,  on  account  of  the  murder  of 
Becket,  238. 

Intermarriages  of  the  invaders  of 
Ireland,  259  ;  of  near  relatives 
*mong  the  Welsh,  453. 


Ireland,  situation  of,  17  ;  accounts 
of,  by  various  authors,  19 ;  cli. 
mate  of,  20,  51 ;  principal  rivers 
22  ;  lakes  and  islands,  25  .  fish, 
26 ;  birds,  and  those  thSt  ara 
wanting,  ib.  ;  wild  animals,  43  ; 
reptiles,  47 ;  antidotes  to  poi- 
son, 49  ;  several  advantages  pe- 
culiar to  Ireland,  51 ;  wonders 
and  miracles,  57  ;  first  peopling 
of,  113  ;  the  second  immigration, 
114  ;  the  third  immigration,  116  ; 
the  fourth  immigration,  117  ;  ar- 
rival of  the  Milesians,  118  ;  com- 
ing of  St.  Patrick,  132;  four 
archbishops  appointed,  133 ; 
wars  with  the  Norwegians,  148 ; 
Gurmund  and  Turgesius,  149  ; 
arrival  of  the  Ostmen,  152 ; 
number  of  kings  down  to  Rode- 
ric,  king  of  Connaught,  154; 
Dermitius,  prince  of  Leinster, 
expelled  by  him,  185  ;  return  of 
Dermitius,  188  ;  arrival  of  Fitz- 
Stephen,  and  taking  of  Wexford, 
189  ;  league  formed  against  the 
invaders,  195  ;  truce,  196  ;  ar- 
rival of  Maurice  Fitzgerald,  and 
conquest  of  Dublin,  202,  213; 
battle  of  Dundunolf,  206  ;  Sy- 
nod of  Armagh,  215 ;  Dublin 
defended  bv  Milo  de  Cogan,  219 ; 
defeat  of  Roderic,  223  ;  defeat 
of  O'Roric,  228  ;  arrival  of  Hen- 
ry II.,  229 ;  submission  of  the 
Irish  princes  to  liim,  230  ;  Sy- 
nod of  Cashel,  233 ;  the  king 
appoints  governors,  and  returns 
to  England,  237;  Strongbow 
made  chief  governor,  255  ;  papal 
bull  in  favour  of  king  Henry's 
claims  on  Ireland,  260 ;  death 
of  Strongbow,  271 ;  Fitz-Aldelm 
sent  as  governor,  273  ;  suc- 
ceeded by  Hugh  de  Lacy,  283  ; 
he  builds  many  castles,  288, 291 ; 
expedition  of  prince  Jolui,  309  ; 
more  castles  built,  313 ;  con- 
flicts with  the  natives,  314  ;  mis- 
government  of  the  prince  and 
.'lis  young  courtiers,  315,319) 


IS'DEX. 


529 


John  de  Courcy  made  governor, ' 
818  ;  how  Ireland  is  to  be  com- 
plp<-ely  conquered,  320 ;  how  it 
should  be  governed,  323. 

Irish,  character,  customs,  and  ha- 
bits of  the,  121  ;  dress,  122  ;  skH- 
led  in  music,  126  ;  ignorant  and 
treacherous,  134, 139  ;  their  bar- 
barous mode  of  making  a  league, 
136 ;  hate  their  brothers  and 
kindred,  137  ;  mode  of  inaugu- 
rating their  kings,  138  ;  laudable 
quahties  of  the  clergy,  141, 144 ; 
neglect  of  the  bishops,  142;  num- 
ber of  persons  with  bodily  de- 
fects, 147. 

Irish  saints,  of  a  vindictive  tem- 
per, 111. 

Irish  sea,  its  troubled  character,  59. 

Isidore,  his  account  of  Ireland,  19, 
21 ;  places  Thule  in  India,  78. 

Island,  a  floating,  fixed  by  means 
of  fire,  73. 

Islands,  formation  of,  76;  several 
remarkable,  their  peculiarities, 
61,  62,  63,  64. 

Ivor  the  Little  carries  ofi"  the  earl 
of  Gloucester,  his  wife  and  cliild, 
380. 

Jealousy,  first  case  of,  in  Ireland, 
140 ;  little  known  among  the 
Welsh,  492. 

Jest  jn  ap  Gurgant  invites  the  Nor- 
mans to  invade  Wales,  338. 

Jew,  witticism  of  a,  467. 

John,  prince,  son  of  Henry  II., 
character  of,  163  ;  his  expedition 
to  Ireland,  309 ;  his  treatment 
of  the  people,  315 ;  replaced  by 
John  de  Courcy,  318. 

John,  king  of  England,  the  revised 
edition  of  the  Conquest  of  Ire- 
land dedicated  to,  172. 

John  the  Constable,  joint  governor 
of  Ireland,  290. 

John  the  Mad,  killed  in  an  attack 
on  Dublin,  220. 

John  Papyrio,  the  papal  legate  in 
Ireland,  133. 


JorwerthDrwyndwn,  effigy  of,  453, 
Julius  and  Aaron,  story  of,  372. 

Keiwin's,  St.,  apples,  ravens,  and 
blackbirds,  88. 

KeUs,  book  of,  99. 

Kenach,  the  abbot,  a  great  planter 
of  trees,  109. 

Kildare,  various  miracles  in,  96. 

Kildare,  book  of,  99. 

Kings,  strange  mode  of  inaugura- 
ting in  Ireland,  138. 

Kings  of  Ireland,  from  Herimon 
to  the  coming  of  St.  Patrick, 
132 ;  the  whole  number  to  the 
coming  of  the  Normans,  154. 

Lacy,  Hugh  de,  appointed  governor 
of  Dubhn,  237;  O'Roric  at- 
tempts to  murder  him  at  a  par- 
ley, 242  ;  made  chief  governor 
of  Ireland,  283 ;  builds  castles, 
288,  291;  his  character,  289; 
suspicions  entertained  of  him, 
ib.  ;  he  is  recalled,  but  is  soon 
reinstated,  291 ;  is  killed,  294. 

Lacy,  Walter  de,  his  descendant», 
358. 

Laegerius,  the  son  of  Nial  of  the 
Nine  Hostages,  132. 

Lakes  of  Ireland,  25,  70. 

Language  of  the  fairies,  391 ;  of 
Wales,  497. 

Langton,  Stephen,  archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  the  Itinerary 
through  Wales  dedicated  to, 
325. 

Lateran,  the  council  of,  285. 

Lechlawar,  or  speaking-stone,  le- 
gend of  the,  237 

Leinster,  Dermitius,  prince  of,  ex- 
pelled, 185 ;  the  country  over- 
run by  Strongbow,  212. 

Leominster,  monastery  of,  468. 

Lightning,  superstition  regarding, 
409. 

Limerick,  capture  of,  by  Raymond, 
265  ;  abandoned  by  him,  273. 

Lion  enamoured  of  a  woman,  87. 

Living,  isle  of  the,  62. 

Llanbadam  Vaur,  the  abbot  of,  436. 
M  M 


530 


IKDEX. 


Llanctaff,  the  see  of,  383. 

Llaridewi  Brefi,  miracle  at,  434. 

Llanstepban,  castle  of,  394. 

Llanthoni,  abbey  of,  its  foundation, 
355  ;  its  secluded  situation  and 
voluntary  poverty,  356,  358. 

Llanvaes,  miracle  at,  341. 

Lochor,  the  river,  392. 

Londres,  Henry  de,  extinguishes 
St.  Brigit's  fire,  97. 

Londres,  Maurice  de,  and  his  veni- 
son, 393. 

Lough  Derg,  63. 

Lough  Neagh,  legend  of,  70. 

Lucius,  king,  his  i-equest  to  pope 
Eleutherius,  507. 

Ludlow,  castle  of,  468. 

Lupus  of  Troyes,  507. 

Maelstrom,  the,  described,  75. 

Magnus,  of  Norway,  drives  the 
Normans  from  Mona,  447. 

Mailgon,  king  of  the  Britons, 
514. 

Man,  isle  of,  subjugated  by  the 
Norwegians,  73,  221 ;  why  con- 
sidered to  belong  to  Britain,  76  ; 
the  kings  of,  assist  the  Irish, 
221. 

Man-calf,  story  of  a,  85. 

Mangunel,  William,  story  of  his 
incestuous  wife,  403. 

Manorbeer,  castle  of,  406 ;  logi- 
cally shown  to  be  the  most  plea- 
sant spot  in  Wales,  407. 

Mapes,  Walter,  archdeacon  of  Ox- 
ford, 177. 

Margan,  the  monastery  of,  miracles 
said  to  be  wrought  in  its  favour, 
384. 

Martinet  (or  kingfisher),  the,  found 
in  Ireland,  38. 

Mathravel,  the  royal  seat  of  the 
princes  of  Powys,  481. 

Meath,  derivation  of  the  name,  118. 

Melerius,  the  soothsayer,  374. 

Men  transformed  to  wolves,  79. 

Menevia.     See  David's,  St. 

Mercros,  Philip  de,  240. 

Meredxth,  sou  of  Conan,  liis  libe- 


rality to  one  of  his  attendShti^ 
439. 

Merioneth,  character  of  the  country 
and  people,  438. 

Merlin,  prophecies  of,  cited,  231, 
238,  300,  502. 

Merlin  Ambrosius,  account  of,  452. 

MerUn  Sylvestris,  account  of,  440. 

Meyler,  grandson  of  Nesta,  his 
character,  194  ;  his  lieadlong  va» 
lour,  256;  at  the  taking  of  Lime- 
rick, 266 ;  his  character,  ib. 

Milesius,  arrival  of,  in  Ireland,  118. 

Miliies,  different  classes  of  military 
men  comprised  under  the  term, 
202. 

Mills,  legends  of,  108. 

Miracles,  several  related,  88. 

Mona,  the  isle  of,  visit  of  arch- 
bishop Baldwin  to,  443  ;  its  de- 
solate appearance,  444. 

Monastic  orders,  state  of  the,  361. 

Monks,  why  inferior  to  the  clergy, 
144. 

Monsters,  remark  of  Augustine 
on,  82. 

Montmaurice,  Hervey,  his  charac- 
ter, 189 ;  his  speech  at  Dundu- 
nolf,  209  ;  sent  to  Aquitaiae  with 
Strongbow's  submission,  216 ; 
constable  of  the  troops,  255 ; 
his  unsuccessful  march  on 
Cashel,  257 ;  his  enmity  to  Ray- 
mond, 259  ;  his  character,  268 ; 
becomes  a  monk,  288. 

Moon,  influence  of  the,  on  the  wa- 
ters and  on  natural  humours,  60. 

Munster,  part  of,  granted  to  Fitz- 
Stephen  and  De  Cogan,  283  ; 
another  part  given  to  Phihp  de 
Braose,  284 ;  unsuccessful  expe- 
dition against  Limerick.  285. 

Music,  the  Irish  skilled  in,  126 
the  Welsh,  495  ;  the  various  in 
struments,  127,  495. 

Nannan,  St.,  and  the  fleas,  legend 

of,  95. 
Navel  of  Ireland,  a  stone  so  called 

117. 


IKDEX. 


5di 


Kp  th,  monastery  of,  387. 

Neath,  the  river,  dangerous  from 
its  quicksands,  387. 

Nemedus  and  his  sons,  their  settle- 
ment in  Ireland,  117. 

Nesta,  a  Welsh  princess,  her  story, 
187  ;  pedigree  of  her  descend- 
ants, 183.  ! 

Newgill  sands,  remarkable  occur- 
rence at,  413. 

Newmarch,  Bernard  de,  his  con- 
quests in  Wales,  345. 

Newmarch,  Mahel  de,  story  of.  345. 

Nial,  the  son  of  Phaemius,  120, 

Nial  of  the  Nine  Hostages,  132. 

Nightingale,  the,  said  not  to  be 
found  in  Wales,  443. 

Norwegians,  their  wars  with  the 
Irish,  148,  151. 

Not.  WiUiam,  his  brilliant  courage, 
225. 

Offa's  dike,  515. 

Ogham  characters,  invention  of 
the,  120. 

Orcades,  the,  in  subjection  to  the 
Norwegians,  73. 

O'Roric,  prince  of  Meath,  procures 
the  expulsion  of  Dermitius  from 
Ireland,  184 ;  is  defeated  in  an 
attack  on  Dublin,  228;  his 
treachery  and  death,  242. 

Orosius,  his  account  of  Ireland, 
19,  43. 

Ossory,  conquest  of,  193. 

Ostmen,  arrival  of  the,  in  Ireland, 
152 ;  their  leaders,  153 ;  their 
colonies,  214 ;  their  stubborn  re- 
sistance to  the  Normans,  207, 
212,  219. 

Oswaldestree,  463  ;  omen  at,  464. 

O'Toole,  Lawrence,  archbishop  of 
Dublin,  his  history,  213  j  his 
death,  292. 

Owen  Cyfeilioc,  excommunicated, 
465  J  his  joke  at  the  avarice  of 
Henry  II.,  ib. 

Owen  Q-wynedli  dies  excommuni- 
cated, 451 ;  his  body  removed 
from  the  church,  by  direction  of 
•rchbishop  Baldwin,  ib. 


PaU,  tne  archiepiscopal,  416. 

Partholan.     See  Bai-tholanus. 

Paternus,  St.,  account  of,  435. 

Patrick,  St.,  date  of  his  coming  to 
Ireland,  132. 

Patrick's,  St.,  purgatory,  63, 

Peacocks,  wild,  said  to  be  found  in 
Ireland,  35  ;  probably  the  caper- 
cailzie, ib. 

Pec,  Eichard  de,  joint  governor  of 
Ireland,  290. 

Pedigree  of  the  descendants  of 
Nesta,  183. 

Pembroke  Castle,  siege  of,  405; 
the  besiegers  induced  to  retire  by 
a  stratagem,  ib. 

Pencarn,  the  ford  of,  prophecy 
concerning,  379. 

Petrifying  springs,  QQ. 

Phoenius,  king  of  the  Scythjjans, 
120. 

Philip  of  Worcester,  punishment 
of,  107. 

Phi'enetic  man  at  Ferns,  a  prophet, 
105. 

Physicians,  little  needed  in  Ireland, 
51. 

Picts,  overthrow  of  the,  by  the 
Scots,  133. 

Pigs,  wUd  in  Ireland,  43. 

Pilgrimage  to  Rome,  preferred  to 
all  others,  by  the  Welsh,  507. 

PistyU  Dewi,  a  spring  of  miraculous 
origin,  421. 

Places  of  refuge  in  Ireland  mira- 
culously protected,  100. 

Poer,  Ranulf,  death  of,  369. 

Poison,  the  soil  of  Ireland  an  an- 
tidote, 49. 

Poisons,  the  East  the  fountain- 
head  of,  55. 

Pont  Stephen,  castle  of,  433. 

Powys,  fine  breed  of  horses  in,  464. 

Prefaces,  3,  9,  165,  169,  172. 

Prendergast,  Maurice  de,  lands  at 
the  Banne,  190 ;  has  a  grant  of 
part  of  Wexford,  193. 

R-eseleu  Mountains,  the,  423, 

Priestholme  Island,  449. 

Prodigies,  various,  related,  79. 

Prophecies,  Irish,  on  the  conquest 


53? 


ISTDEX. 


of    the  land,  313}    of    Merlin, 

231,  238,  300,  502. 
Prophecv,  remarks  on,  500. 
Purgatory,  St.  Patrick's,  63. 

Quendreda,  story  of,  342. 

Eaths,  149. 

Eats,  expelled  by  St.  Yvorus,  96. 

Eats,  a  man  devoured  by,  423. 

Eavens,  legends  of,  90. 

Eaymond.      See  Fitzgerald. 

Eed  colour,  effect  of,  on  a  fountain 
in  Sicily,  69. 

Eegiuald's  Tower,  at  Waterford, 
212 ;  Fitz-Stephen  imprisoned 
there  by  Henry  II.,  229. 

Eeptiles,  venomous,  not  found  in 
Ireland,  47. 

Ehys,  son  of  Grruffydh,  prince  of 
South  "Wales,  takes  the  cross, 
332  ;  is  diverted  from  his  pur- 
pose by  his  wife,  333 ;  impri- 
soned by  his  sons,  425. 

Eichard,  count  of  Poitou,  charac- 
ter of,  159  ;  contrasted  with  his 
brother  Henry,  161  ;  the  Con- 
quest of  Ireland  originally  de- 
dicated to  him,  171 J  takes  the 
cross,  299. 

Eichard  I.,  his  reply  to  Fxilco,  a 
priest,  362. 

Eidenesford,  Walter  de,  assists  in 
the  defence  of  Dublin,  220. 

Eivers,  the  principal,  of  Ireland, 
22. 

Eoderic  the  Great,  said  to  be  the 
first  person  who  divided  Wales 
into  three  provinces,  479. 

Eoderic,  son  of  Owen,  of  North 
Wales,  445. 

Eoderic,  last  sole  king  of  Ireland, 
153,  185 ;  endeavours  to  break 
the  league  between  Dermitius 
and  his  Norman  allies,  197  ;  fails, 
ib. ;  his  speech,  recommending 
war  on  them,  ib. ;  a  temporary 
peace  made  with  Dermitius,  201 ; 
the  war  renewed,  215  ;  Eoderic 
puts  Dermitius'  8on  to   death, 


ib. ;  besieges  Dublin,  221  j  is  put 
to  flight,  224;  returns  and  ra- 
vages the  country  up  to  the  walls 
of  Dublin,  257  ;  battle  with  Milo 
de  Cogan,  283  ;  gives  his  son  as 
a  hostage  to  Henry  II.,  293 ; 
his  death,  153. 

Eoger,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  his  rise 
to  eminence,  357. 

Eotherch  Falcus,  a  chaplain,  his 
conduct  to  the  bishop  of  St. 
David's,  388. 

Eound  towers  of  Ireland,  71,  98. 

Eoyal  palaces  in  Wales  enume- 
rated, 395. 

Euanus,  his  asserted  long  exist- 
ence, 115. 

Euthlan,  castle  of,  455. 

Salmon-leap,  the,  in  Ireland,  102 ; 
in  Wales,  102, 429. 

Sanctuary,  its  uses  and  abuses  in 
Wales,  507. 

Scota,  the  princess,  120. 

Scotland,  said  to  be  colonized  from 
Ireland,  120, 133  ;  famed  for  its 
music,  127. 

Segontium,  441. 

Severn,  the  river,  its  covirse,  483. 

Shannon,  error  of  Giraldus  con- 
cerning its  course,  24. 

Shetland  Islands,  subjugated  by 
the  Norwegians,  73. 

Shrewsbury,  Hugh,  earl  of,  ravages 
Mona,  448  ;  his  death,  ib. 

Shrewsbury,  Eobert,  earl  of,  intro- 
duces Spanish  horses  into  Wales, 
464. 

Simon,  an  evil  spirit  so  called,  410. 

Slanius,  first  sole  king  of  Ireland, 
118. 

Slave-trade  among  the  Anglo-Sax- 
ons, 216. 

Snowdon,  the  mountain,  and  its 
lakes,  453. 

Sohnus,  his  account  of  Ireland,  19, 
21 ;  places  Thule  in  India,  78. 

Soothsayers  among  the  Welsh,  501. 

Spanish  Sea,  the,  its  two  branches 
17. 


TIS-DEX. 


530 


Sparrow-hawk,  habits  of  the,  26. 

Sparrows,  towns  said  to  be  de- 
stroyed by,  150. 

Staff  of  Jesus,  146. 

Stags  in  Ireland,  43- 

Stakepole,  EUdor  de,  and  his  de- 
mon steward,  410. 

Steward,  a  demon  who  acted  as, 
410. 

Stone  which  produces  wine,  legend 
of  the,  95. 

Stone,  a  miraculous  one,  in  Mona, 
446. 

Stonehenge.     See  G-iant's  Dance. 

Storks,  rare  in  Ireland,  39. 

Stratflur,  abbey  of,  433. 

Strigul,  castle  of,  186. 

Strongbow  (Eichard  de  Clare), 
agrees  to  assist  Dermitius,  187 ; 
sends  Fitz-Stephen  forward,190; 
as  also  Eaymond,  206;  arrives 
in  Ireland,  and  captures  Water- 
ford,  212 ;  marries  Eva,  the 
daughter  of  Dermitius,  ib.  j  cap- 
tures Dublin,  214 ;  plimders 
Meath,  215;  receives  an  order 
to  return  to  England,  216 ;  his 
prudent  reply,  217 ;  is  besieged 
in  Dublin  by  Koderic  and  the 
men  of  the  Isles,  221 ;  disperses 
their  army,  224 ;  his  character, 
226;  returns  to  England,  and 
is  restored  to  favour  by  the 
king,  227;  his  return  to  Ire- 
land, 255 ;  is  obliged  to  retire 
to  Waterford,  257;  reheved 
by  Raymond,  258 ;  his  death 
and  burial,  272  j  his  tomb, 
273. 

Sunday  labour,  attempt  to  restrain, 
240,  380. 

Swans  abundant  in  Ireland,  39. 

Swansea,  castle  of,  389. 

Teeth,  3are  of  the,  among  the 
Welsh,  494. 

Tegengl,  play  on  the  word,  499. 

Teivi,  the  river,  abundant  in  sal- 
mon, 427. 

Teal,  St.  Colman's,  legend  of,  93. 


Thief,  miraculous  detection  of  a, 
341 

Thomas,  St.  (Becket),  martyrdom 
of,  217. 

Thongs  of  Irish  leather,  their  effi- 
cacy against  venomous  reptiles, 
49. 

Thorach,  probably  Rathlin  Island, 
18. 

Thorgils.     See  Turgesius. 

Thule,  the  western  island,  77  j 
speciilations  of  various  writers 
as  to  its  position,  78. 

Tides  and  currents  in  the  Irish 
Sea,  59. 

Toads,  a  man  devoured  by,  422 ; 
sculpture  to  commemorate  the 
tale,  ib. 

Transmutation  of  men  into  ani- 
mals, 79,  116. 

Trees  in  Ireland,  125. 

Tubal,  the  inventor  of  musical  in- 
struments, 131. 

Tuesday,  the  day  of  Mars,  towns 
taken  on,  265,  270. 

Turgesius,  the  Norwegian,  his  con- 
quest of  Ireland,  1-^ ;  his  death, 
151. 

Tyrrell,  Hugh,  punishment  of,  107. 

Ulster,  the  princes  of,  refuse  sub- 
mission to  Henry  II.,  231 ;  in- 
vaded by  John  de  Courcy,  277 ; 
the  bodies  of  three  saints  trans- 
lated from,  314. 

Unclean  spirits,  stories  of,  409. 

Unicorn,  the,  according  to  medi- 
seval  fable,  53. 

Usk,  the  river,  its  course,  484. 

Usk,  the  town,  visit  of  archbishop 
Baldwin  to,  371. 

Vallis  Crucis  abbey,  375. 
Venedotia,  or  North  Wales,  479. 
Venomous  creatures  brought  into 

Ireland  immediately  die,  48. 
Vere,  Alberic  de,  450. 
Vision,  a,  and  its  explanation,  301 ; 

of   king  Henry  II.  at   Cardifl^ 

240,  380. 


d34 


IKDEX, 


Visions,  several  remarkable,  244. 
Vivianus,  the  papal  legate  in  Ire- 
land, 283. 

Wales,  its  length  and  breadth,  478 ; 
soil,  ib. ;  ancient  divisions,  479 ; 
genealogy  of  the  princes,  480 ; 
cantreds,  royal  palaces,  and  ca- 
thedrals, 481 ;  mountains,  483  ; 
rivers,  ib. ;  pleasantness  and  fer- 
tility of  the  country,  488  j  origin 
of  the  name,  489 ;  language,  497 ; 
how  the  coimtry  is  to  be  con- 
quered and  governed,  516,  519. 
Waterford,  capture  of,  by  Strong- 
bow,  212 ;  he  is  besieged  there, 
but  relieved  by  Raymond,  257. 
Weasel,  the,  its  nature,  46. 
Weasels,  stories  of,  406. 
WeUs,  holy,  in  Ireland,  65. 
Welsh,  their  manners  and  courage, 
490  J  sobriety  and  finigality,  492 ; 
domestic  life,  493,  494 ;  quick- 
ness  and    sharpness   of  under- 
standing, 494 ;  their  musical  in- 
struments, 495 ;  language,  497 ; 
symphonies  and  songs,  498  ;  wit 
and    pleasantry,    ib. ;    boldness 
and  confidence  in  speaking,  500  j 
soothsayers,  501 ;  love  of  high 
birth  and    ancient  genealogies, 
505 ;  their  faith  and  devotion, 
507 ;  instability,   and  want    of 
reverence   for   oaths,   508 ;  live 
by  plunder,  and  disregard  the 
bonds  of  peace  and  friendship, 
609 ;    conduct  in  battle,   511 ; 


ambition  and  dissensions,  5H; 
exactions,  and  want  of  modera- 
tion,  ib. ;  incestuous  marriages, 
333,  453,  513;  plunder  Of 
churches,  513  ;  their  other  sins, 
514;  their  boasts,  ib. ;  in  what 
manner  to  be  overcome  and  go- 
verned, 516,  519 ;  how  they  may 
resist  and  revolt,  521. 

Wenlock,  foundation  of  the  mo» 
nastery  of,  467. 

West,  the,  its  many  advantages 
over  the  East,  54. 

Wexford,  taking  of,  by  Fitz-Ste- 
phen,  192;  granted  to  Strong- 
bow,  247. 

Wheat  cursed  by  the  bishop  of 
Cork,  106. 

Whirlpools  described,  75. 

White  Monastery,  the,  now  Whit- 
church, in  Shropshire,  462. 

Wild  animals  of  Ireland,  43. 

William  Rufus,  his  threat  against 
Ireland,  421. 

Wind  and  rain,  prevalence  of,  in 
Ireland,  21. 

Winter,  a  tempestuous  one,  234. 

Woman  with  a  beard  and  mane,  84. 

Women,  severe  reflections  on,  346. 

Wonders  and  miracles  of  Ireland, 
57. 

Worcester,  Philip  de,  governor  of 
Ireland,  his  expedition  to  Ar- 
magh, 295. 

Wye,  the  river,  its  course,  484. 

Yvoros,  St.,  rats  expelled  by,  96. 


THE   EITD. 


LONDON:    FEINTED  BY  WILLIAM  CLOWES  AND  SONS,   LIMITED, 
DUKK  STKEET,  STA1I70BD  STREET,  S.E.,  AND  GREAT  WINDMILL  STREET 


AN 


ALPHABETICAL    LIST 


OF   BOOKS   CONTAINED    IN 


BOHN'S    LIBRARIES 


Detailed  Catalogue^  arranged  according  to  the  various 
Libraries^  will  be  sent  on  application. 


ADDISON'S  Works.  With  the 
Notes  of  Bishop  Hurd,  Portrait, 
and  8  Plates  of  Medals  and  Coins. 
Edited  by  H.  G.  Bohn.  6  vols. 
3 J.  6^.  each. 

^SCHYLUS,    The  Dramas   of. 

Translated  into  English  Verse  by 
Anna  Swanwick.  4th  Edition, 
revised.     5^. 

The  Tragedies  of.  Trans- 
lated into  Prose  by  T.  A.  Buckley, 
B.A.     3^.  6^. 

AGASSIZ  and  GOULD'S  Out- 
line of  Comparative  Physi- 
ology. Enlarged  by  Dr.  Wright. 
With  390  Woodcuts.     5^. 

ALFIERI'S  Tragedies.  Trans- 
lated into  English  Verse  by  Edgct 
A.  Bowring,  C.  B.  2  vols.  3J.  6«. 
each. 

ALLEN'S  (Joseph,  R.  N.)  Battles 
of  the  British  Navy.  Revised 
Edition,  with  57  Steel  Engravings. 
2  vols.     5j.  each. 

AMMIANUS  MAROBLLINUS. 
History  of  Rome  during  the 
Reigns  of  Constantius,  Julian, 
Jovianus,  Valentinianj  and  Valens. 


Translated  by  Prof.  C.  D.  Yonge, 
M.A.     75.  dds 

ANDERSEN'S  Danish  Legends 
and  Fairy  Tales.  Translated 
by  Caroline  Peachey.  With  120 
Wood  Engravings.     5^. 

ANTONINUS  (M.  Aurelius),  The 
Thoughts  of.  Trans,  literally, 
with  Notes  and  Introduction  by 
George  Long,  M.A.     y,  6d. 

APOLLONIUS  RHODIUS. 
'The  Argonautioa.'  Translated 
by  E.  P.  Coleridge,  B.A. 

APPIAN'S  Roman  History. 
Translated  by  Horace  White, 
M.A.,  LL.D.  With  Maps  and 
Illustrations.     2  vols.     6^.  each. 

APULBIUS,     The   Works    of 

Comprising  the  Golden  Ass,  God 
of  Socrates,  Florida,  and  Dis- 
course of  Magic.     5^. 

ARIOSTO'S  Orlando  Furioso. 
Translated  into  English  Verse  by 
W.  S.  Rose.  With  Portrait,  and  2  \ 
Steel  Engravings.  2  vols.  S5-.  each 

ARISTOPHANES'  Comedies. 
Translated  by  W.  J.  Hickie.  2 
vols.     5j.  each. 


A  72  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


ARISTOTLE'S    Nioomaohean 

Ethics.  Translated,  with  Intro- 
fluction  and  Notes,  by  the  Vener- 
able Archdeacon  Browne.     "J^. 

Politics      and    Economics. 

Translated  by  E.  Walford,  M.A., 
with  Introduction  by  Dr.  Gillies. 

Metaphysics.    Translated  by 

the  Rev.  John  H.  M'Mahon, 
M.A.     5^. 

History  of  Animals.    Trans. 

by  Richard  Cresswell,  M.A.    5^. 

Organon;  or,  Logical  Trea- 
tises, and  the  Introduction  of 
Porphyry.  Translated  by  the 
Rev.  O.  F.  Owen,  M.A.  2  vols. 
3i-.  dd.  each. 

Rhetoric    and    Poetics. 

Trans,  by  T.  Buckley,  B.A.     5j. 

ARRIAN'S  Anabasis  of  Alex- 
ander, together  with  the  Indica. 
Translated  by  E.  J.  Chinnock, 
M.A.,  LL.D.  With  Maps  and 
Plans.     5^. 

ATHEN-ffilUS.  The  Deipnoso- 
phists;  or,  the  Banquet  of  the 
Learned.  Trans,  by  Prof.  CD. 
Yonge,  M.A.    3  vols.     5^^.  each. 

BACON'S  Moral  and  Historical 
Works,  including  the  Essays, 
Apophthegms,  Wisdom  of  the 
Ancients,  New  Atlantis,  Henry 
VII.,  Henry  VIII.,  Elizabeth,  , 
Henry  Prince  of  Wales,  History 
of  Great  Britain,  Julius  Csesar, 
and  Augustus  Caesar.  Edited  by 
J.  Devey,  M.A.     3^.  (id. 

Novum  Organum  and  Ad- 
vancement of  Learning.  Edited 
by  J.  Devey,  M.A.     5^^. 

BASS'S  Lexicon  to  the  Greek 
Testament.    2J. 


BAX'S  Manual  of  the  History 
of  Philosophy,  for  the  use  ot 
Students.    By  E.  Beifort  Bax,    55. 

BEAUMONT  and  FLETCHER, 

their  finest  Scenes,  Lyrics,  and 
other  Beauties,  selected  from  the 
whole  of  their  works,  and  edited 
by  Leigh  Hunt.     3^.  6^. 

BECHSTEIN'S  Cage  and 
Chamber  Birds,  their  Natural 
History,  Habits,  Food,  Diseases, 
and  Modes  of  Capture.  Translated, 
with  considerable  additions  on 
Structure,  Migration,  and  Eco- 
nomy, by  H.  G.  Adams.  Together 
with  Sv\'EET  British  Warblers. 
With  43  coloured  Plates  and 
Woodcut  Illustrations.     5^. 

BEDE'S  (Venerable)  Ecclesias- 
tical History  of  England.  To- 
gether with  the  Anglo-Saxon 
Chronicle.  Edited  by  J.  A. 
Giles,  D.C.L.     With  Map.     5^. 

BELL  (Sir  Charles).  The  Ana- 
tomy and  Philosophy  of  Ex- 
pression, as  connected  with 
the  Fine  Arts.  By  Sir  Charles 
Bell,  K.H.     7th  edition,  revised. 

BERKELEY  (George),  Bishop 
of  Cloyne,  The  Works  of, 
Edited  by  George  Sampson.  With 
Biographical  Introduction  by  the 
Right  Hon.  A.  J.  Balfour,  M.P. 
3  vols.     5 J.  each. 

BION.    See  Theocritus. 

BJORNSON'S  Ame  and  the 
Fisher  Lassie.  Translated  by 
W.  H.  Low,  M.A.     3x.  dd. 

BLAIR'S  Chronological  Tables 
Revised  and  Enlarged.  Compre- 
hending the  Chronology  and  His- 
tory of  the  World, from  the  Earliest 
Times  to  the  Russian  Treaty  of 
Peace,  April  1856.  By  J.  Wil- 
loughby  Rosse.     Double  vol.  iot. 


Contahied  in  BoJm's  Libraries. 


BLAIR'S  Index  of  Dates.  Com- 
prehending the  principal  Facts  in 
the  Chronology  and  History  of 
the  World,  alphabetically  ar- 
ranged ;  being  a  complete  Index 
to  Blair's  Chronological  Tables. 
By  J.  W.  Rosse.    2  vols.   S^.  each. 

BLEEK,  Introduction  to  the 
Old  Testament.  By  Friedrich 
Bleek.  Edited  by  Johann  Bleek 
and  Adolf  Kamphausen.  Trans- 
lated by  G.  H.  Venables,  under 
the  supervision  of  the  Rev.  Canon 
Venables.     2  vols.     5^.  each. 

BOETHIUS'S  Consolation  of 
Philosophy.  King  Alfred's  Anglo- 
Saxon  Version  of.  With  a  literal 
English  Translation  on  opposite 
pages,  Notes,  Introduction,  and 
Glossary,  by  Rev.  S.  Fox,  M.A. 

BOHN'S  Dictionary  of  Poetical 
Quotations.     4th  edition.     6j. 

Handbooks  of  Athletic 

Sports.  In  8  vols.,  each  con- 
taining numerous  Illustrations. 
3^.  dd.  each. 

I. — Cricket,     Lawn    Tennis, 
Tennis,  Rackets,  Fives, 
Golf. 
II. — Rowing     and     Sculling, 

Sailing,  Swimming. 
III.— Boxing,  Broadsword, 
Single  Stick,  &c. ,  Wrest- 
ling, Fencing. 
IV.  —Rugby  Football,  Associa- 
tion Football,  Baseball, 
Rounders,  Fieldball, 
Quoits,  Skittles,  Bowls, 
Curling, 
v.— Cycling,  Athletics,  Skat- 
ing. 
VI. — Practical    Horsemanship, 
including    Riding     for 
Ladies. 
VII. — Camping  Out,  Canoeing. 
VIII.— Gymnastics,  Indian  Clubs. 


BOHN'S  Handbooks  of  Games. 

New  edition.  In  2  vols.,  with 
numerous  Illustrations  3^.  6a'. 
each. 

Vol.  I.— Table  Games  :— Bil- 
liards.  Chess,  Draughts,  Back- 
gammon, Dominoes,  Solitaire, 
Reversi,  Go-Bang,  Rouge  et  Noir, 
Roulette,  E.G.,  Hazard,  Faro. 

Vol.  II.  —  Card  Games  :  — 
Whist,  Solo  Whist,  Poker,  Piquet, 
Ecarte,  Euchre,  Bezique,  Crib- 
bage.  Loo,  Vingt-et-un,  Napoleon, 
Newmarket,  Pope  Joan,  [Specula- 
tion, &c.,  &c. 

BOND'S  A  Handy  Book  of  Rules 
and  Tables  for  verifying  Dates 
with  the  Christian  Era,  &c.  Giving 
an  account  of  the  Chief  Eras  and 
Systems  used  by  various  Nations  ; 
with  the  easy  Methods  for  deter- 
mining the  Corresponding  Dates. 
By  J.  J.  Bond.     ^s. 

BONOMI'S  Nineveh  and  its 
Palaces.  7  Plates  and  294  Wood- 
cut Illustrations.     5^. 

BOSWELL'S  Life  of  Johnson, 
with  the  Tour  in  the  Hebrides 
and  JOHNSONIANA.  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  A.  Napier,  M.A.  With 
Frontispiece  to  each  vol.  6  vols. 
3^.  (id.  each. 

BRAND'S  Popular  Antiquities 
of  England,  Scotland,  and  Ire- 
land. Arranged,  revised,  and 
greatly  enlarged,  by  Sir  Henry 
Ellis,  K.H.,  F.R.S.,  &c.,  &c.  3 
vols.     <iS.  each. 

BREMER'S  (Frederika)  Works. 
Translated  by  Mary  Howitt.  4 
vols.     3^.  dd.  each. 

BRIDGWATER    TREATISES. 

Bell  (Sir  Charles)  on  the  Hand. 

With  numerous  Woodcuts.     5^. 

Klrby  on  the  History,  Habits, 
and  Instincts  of  Animals. 
Edited  by  T.  Rymer  Jones. 
Wiih  upwards  of  100  Woodcuts. 
2  vols.     55-.  each. 


An  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


Bridgwater  Treatises  continued. 

Kidd  on  the  Adaptation  of  Ex- 
ternal Natiire  to  the  Physical 
Condition  of  Man.     3^.  dd. 

Chalmers  on  the  Adaptation 
of  External  Nature  to  the 
Moral  and  Intellectual  Con- 
stitution of  Man.    55. 

BRINK  (B.  ten)  Early  English 
Literature.  By  Bernhard  ten 
Brink.  Vol.  I.  To  Wyclif.  Trans- 
lated by  Horace  M.  Kennedy. 
y,  6d. 

Vol.  II.  Wyclif,  Chaucer,  Ear- 
liest Drama  Renaissance.  Trans- 
lated by  W.  Clarke  Robinson, 
Ph.D.     3J.  6d. 

Vol.  III.  From  the  Fourteenth 
Century  to  the  Death  of  Surrey. 
Edited  by  Dr.  Alois  Brandl. 
Trans,  by  L.  Dora  Schmitz. 
3..  6d. 

Five  Lectures  on  Shake- 
speare. Trans,  by  Julia  Franklin. 
Si'.  6d. 

BROWNE'S  (Sir  Thomas) Works 
Edited  by  Simon  Wilkin.  3  vols. 
3^.  6d.  each. 

BURKE'S  Works.  8  vols.  3^.  ed. 
each. 

I. — Vindication  of  Natural  So- 
ciety— Essay  on  the  Sub- 
lime and  Beautiful,  and 
various  Political  Miscel- 
lanies. 

II. — Reflections  on  the  French 
Revolution  —  Letters  re- 
lating to  the  Bristol  Elec- 
tion —  Speech  on  Fox's 
East  India  Bill,  &c. 

in. — Appeal  from  the  New  to  the 
Old  Whigs— On  the  Na- 
bob of  Arcot's  Debts  — 
The  Catholic  Claims,  &c. 


Burkk's  Works  continued. 

IV. — Report  on  the  Affairs  of 
India,  and  Articles  of 
Charge  against  Warren 
Hastings. 
V. — Conclusion  of  the  Articles  of 
Charge  against  Warren 
Hastings — Political  Let- 
ters on  the  American  War, 
on  a  Regicide  Peace,  to 
the  Empress  of  Russia. 
VI. — Miscellaneous  Speeches  — 
Letters  and  Fragments- 
Abridgments  of  English 
History,  &c.  With  a 
General  Index. 
VH.  &  VIII.— Speeches  on  the  Im- 
peachment of  Warren 
Hastings ;  and  Letters. 
With  Index.  2  vols. 
T,s.  6d.  each. 

Life.     By  Sir  J.  Prior.  3^.  6d. 

BURNEY'S  Evelina.  By  Frances 
Burney  (Mme.  D'Arblay).  With 
an  Introduction  and  Notes  by 
A.  R.  Ellis.     3^.  6d. 

Cecilia.  With  an  Introduc- 
tion and  Notes  by  A.  R.  Ellis. 
2  vols.     3J.  6d.  each. 

BURN  (R.)  Ancient  Rome  and 
its  Neighboiirhood.  An  Illus- 
trated Handbook  to  the  Ruins  in 
the  City  and  the  Campagna,  for 
the  use  of  Travellers.  By  Robert 
Burn,  M.A.  With  numerous 
Illustrations,  Maps,  and  Plans. 
ys.  6d. 

BURNS  (Robert),  Life  of.  By 
J.  G.  Lockhart,  D.C.L.  A 
new  and  enlarged  Edition.  Re- 
vised by  William  Scott  Douglas. 
3..  6d. 

BURTON'S  (Robert)  Anatomy  of 
Melancholy.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
A.  R.  Shilleto,  M.A.  With  In- 
troduction by  A.  H.  Bullen,  and 
full  Index.     3  vols.     3.^.  6d.  each. 


Contained  in  Bohn's  Libraries. 


5 


BURTON  (Sir  R.  F.)  Personal 
Narrative  of  a  Pilgrimage  to 
Al-Madlnah  and  Mecoah.  By 
Captain  Sir  Richard  F.  Burton, 
K.C.M.G.  With  an  Introduction 
by  Stanley  Lane-Poole,  and  all 
the  original  Illustrations.  2  vols. 
y.  6d.  each. 

^*^  This  is  the  copyright  edi- 
tion, containing  the  author's  latest 
notes. 

BUTLER'S  (Bishop)  Analogy  of 
Religion,  Natural  and  Revealed, 
to  the  Constitution  and  Course  of 
Nature ;  together  with  two  Dis- 
sertations on  Personal  Identity  and 
on  the  Nature  of  Virtue,  and 
Fifteen  Sermons,     y.  6d. 

BUTLER'S  (Samuel)  Hudibras, 
With  Variorum  Notes,  a  Bio- 
graphy, Portrait,  and  28  Illus- 
trations.    5^. 

or,  further  Illustrated  with  60 

Outline  Portraits.  2  vols.  S^'  each. 

CJSSAR.  Commentaries  on  the 
Gallic  and  Civil  Wars,  Trans- 
lated by  W.  A.  McDevitte,  B.A. 

CAMOENS'  Lusiad ;  or,  the  Dis- 
covery of  India.  An  Epic  Poem. 
Translated  by  W.  J.  Mickle.  5th 
Edition,  revised  by  E.  R.  Hodges, 
M.C.P.    35.  6d. 

CARAFAS  (The)  of  Maddaloni. 
Naples  under  Spanish  Dominion. 
Translated  from  the  German  of 
Alfred  de  Reumont.     3J.  6d. 

CARLYLE'S  French  Revolution. 
Edited  by  J.  Holland  Rose, 
Litt.D.     lUus.    3  vols.     5^.  each. 

Sartor   Resartus.     With  75 

Illustrations  by  Edmund  J.  Sul- 
livan.    5^. 

CARPENTER'S     (Dr.    W.     B.) 

Zoology.      Revised    Edition,    by 

W.  S.  Dallas,  F.L.S.     With  very 

numerous  Woodcuts.     Vol.  I.  6s. 

[  ybl.  11.  out  of  print. 


CARPENTER'S  Mechanical 
Philosophy,  Astronomy,  and 
Horology.     181  Woodcuts.     5^. 

Vegetable  Physiology    and 

Systematic  Botany.  Revised 
Edition,  by  E.  Lankester,  M.D., 
&c.  With  very  numerous  Wood- 
cuts.    6  J. 

Animal  Physiology.    Revised 

Edition.  With  upwards  of  300 
Woodcuts.     6s. 

CASTLE  (E.)  Schools  and 
Masters  of  Fence,  from  the 
Middle  Ages  to  the  End  of  the 
Eighteenth  Century.  By  Egerton 
Castle,  M.A.,  F.S.A.  With  a 
Complete  Bibliography.  Illus- 
trated with  140  Reproductions  of 
Old  Engravings  and  6  Plates  of 
Swords,  showing  114  Examples. 
6s. 

OATTERMOLE'S  Evenings  at 
Haddon  Hall.  With  24  En- 
gravings on  Steel  from  designs  by 
Cattermole,  the  Letterpress  by  the 
Baroness  de  Carabella.     5^. 

CATULLUS,  Tibullus,  and  the 
Vigil  of  Venus.  A  Literal  Prose 
Translation,     5^. 

CELLINI  (Benvenuto).  Me- 
moirs of,  written  by  Himself. 
Translated  by  Thomas  Roscoe. 
3.r.  6d. 

CERVANTES'  Don  Quixote  de 
la  Mancha.  Motteaux's  Trans- 
lation revised.  2  vols.  ^s.  6d. 
each. 

aalatea.  A  Pastoral  Ro- 
mance. Translated  by  G.  W.  T. 
Gyll.     3^.  6d. 

Exemplary  Novels.  Trans- 
lated by  Walter  K.  Kelly.  3^.  6d. 

CHAUCER'S  Poetical  Works. 
Edited  by  Robert  Bell.  Revised 
Edition,  wilh  a  Preliminary  Essay 
by  Prof.  W.  W.  Skeat,  M.A.  4 
vols.     3^.  6d.  each. 


An  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


CHESS   CONGRESS  of  1862. 

A  Collection  of  the  Games  played. 
Edited  by  J.  Lowenthal.     5^. 

OHEVREUL  on  Colour.  Trans- 
lated from  the  French  by  Charles 
Martel.  Third  Edition,  with 
Plates,  55. ;  or  with  an  additional 
series  of  16   Plates   in   Colours, 

CHILLINGWORTH'S  Religion 
of  Protestants.  A  Safe  Way  to 
Salvation.     3^.  dd. 

CHINA,  Pictorial,  Descriptive, 
and  Historical.  With  Map  and 
nearly  100  Illustrations,     ^^s. 

CHRONICLES  OF  THE  CRU- 
SADES. Contemporary  Narra- 
tives of  the  Crusade  of  Richard 
Cceur  de  Lion,  by  Richard  of 
Devizes  and  Geoffrey  de  Vinsauf ; 
and  of  the  Crusade  at  St.  Louis, 
by  Lord  John  de  Joinville.     5^. 

CICERO'S  Orations.  Translated 
by  Prof.  C.  D.  Yonge,  M.A.  4 
vols.     5^.  each. 

Letters.  Translated  by  Evelyn 

S.  Shuckburgh.    4  vols.    5^,  each. 

On    Oratory   and    Orators. 

With  Letters  to  Quintus  and 
Brutus.  Translated  by  the  Rev. 
J.  S.  Watson,  M.A.     5^. 

On  the  Nature  of  the  Gods, 

Divination,  Fate,  Laws,  a  Re- 
public, Consulship.  Translated 
by  Prof.  C.  D.  Yonge,  M.A.,  and 
Francis  Barham.     55. 

Academics,  De  Finibus,  and 

Tusculan  Questions.  By  Prof. 
C.  D.  Yonge,  M.A.     5^. 

CICERO'S  Offices  ;  or.  Moral 
Duties.  Cato  Major,  an  Essay 
on  Old  Age;  Lselius,  an  Essay 
on  Friendship;  Scipio's  Dream; 
Paradoxes  ;  Letter  to  Quintus  on 
Magistrates.  Translated  by  C.  R. 
Edmonds.     3^.  (td. 

CORNELIUS  NEPOS.  — ^^^ 
Justin. 


CLARE'S  (Hugh)  IntroduoUon 
to  Heraldry.  i8th  Edition,  Re- 
vised and  Enlarged  by  J.  R. 
Planche,  Rouge  Croix.  With 
nearly  looo  Illustrations.  55.  Or 
with  the  Illustrations   Coloured, 

CLASSIC  TALES,  containing 
Rasselas,  Vicar  of  Wakefield, 
Gulliver's  Travels,  and  The  Senti- 
mental Journey.     35.  (>d. 

COLERIDGE'S   (S.  T.)  Friend. 

A  Series  of  Essays  on  Morals, 
Politics,  and  Religion,     y.  dd. 

Aids  to  Reflection,  and  the 

Confessions  of  an  Inquiring 
Spirit,  to  which  are  added  the 
Essays  on  Faith  and  the  Book, 
of  Common  Prayer.     3.^.  dd. 

Lectures    and    Notes    on 

Shakespeare  and  other  English 
Poets.   Edited  by  T.  Ashe.  35.6^. 

Biographia  Literaria ;  to- 
gether with  Two  Lay  Sermons. 
3J.  dd. 

Table-Talk   and    Omniana. 

Edited  by  T.  Ashe,  B.A.     3^.  dd. 

Miscellanies,  .Esthetic  and 

Literary;  to  which  is  added, 
The  Theory  of  Life.  Col- 
lected and  arranged  by  T.  Ashe, 
B.A.     y.  dd. 

COMTE'S  Positive  Philosophy. 
Translated  and  condensed  by 
Harriet  Martineau.  With  Intro- 
duction by  Frederic  Harrison. 
3  vols.     5i".  each. 

COMTE'S  Philosophy  of  the 
Sciences,  being  an  Exposition  of 
the  Principles  of  the  Cours  de 
Philosophie  Positive.  By  G.  H. 
Lewes.     5^. 

CONDE'S  History  of  the  Do- 
minion of  the  Arabs  in  Spain. 
Translated  by  Mrs.  Foster.  3 
vols.     3 J.  dd.  each. 


Contained  in  BoJui's  Libraries. 


COOPER'S  Biographical  Dic- 
tionary. Containing  Concise 
Notices  (upwards  of  15,000)  of 
Eminent  Persons  of  all  Ages  and 
Countries.  By  Thompson  Cooper, 
F.S.A.  With  a  Supplement, 
bringing  the  work  down  to  1883. 
2  vols.     Sj.  each. 

OOXE'S  Memoirs  of  the  Duke  of 
Marlborough.  With  his  original 
Correspondence.  By  W.  Coxe, 
M.A.,  F.R.S.  Revised  edition 
by  John  Wade.  3  vols.  3^.  (xi. 
each. 

*^^*  An  Atlas  of  the  plans  of 
Marlborough's  campaigns,  4to. 
\os.  6d. 

History    of   the    House    of 

Austria  (12 18-1792).  With  a 
Continuation  from  the  Accession 
of  Francis  I.  to  the  Revolution  of 
1848.     4  vols,     3 J.  6d.  each. 

CRAIK'S(G.L.)  Pursuit  of  Know-   j 
ledge  under  DiflSculties.     Illus-   ! 
trated  by  Anecdotes  and  Memoirs. 
Revised   edition,  with   numerous 
Woodcut  Portraits  and  Plates.   5^. 

CRUIKSHANK'S  Punch  and 
Judy.  The  Dialogue  of  the 
Puppet  Show  ;  an  Account  of  its 
Origin,  &c.  With  24  Illustra- 
tions, and  Coloured  Plates,  de- 
signed and  engraved  by  G.  Cruik- 
shank.     5^. 

CUNNINGHAM'S  Lives  of  the 
Most  Eminent  British  Painters. 
A  New  Edition,  with  Notes  and 
Sixteen  fresh  Lives.  By  Mrs. 
Heaton.     3  vols.     3^.  6d.  each. 

DANTE.  Divine  Comedy.  Trans- 
lated by  the  Rev.  H.  F.  Cary, 
M.A.     3^.  6d. 

Translated  into  English  Verse 

by  I.  C.  Wright,  M.A.  3rd  Edi- 
tion, revised.  With  Portrait,  and 
34  Illustrations  on  Steel,  after 
Flaxman. 


DANTE.  The  Loiferno.  A  Literal 
Prose  Translation,  with  the  Text 
of  the  Original  printed  on  the  same 
page.    By  John  A.  Carlyle,  M.D. 

The  Purgatorlo.     A  LiteraJ 

Prose  Translation,  with  the  Text 
printed  on  the  same  page.  By 
W.  S.  Dugdale.     $s. 

DE  COMMINES  (Philip),  Me- 
moirs of.  Containing  the  Histories 
of  Louis  XI.  and  Charles  VIII., 
Kings  of  France,  and  Charles 
the  Bold,  Duke  of  Burgundy. 
Together  with  the  Scandalous 
Chronicle,  or  Secret  History  of 
Louis  XL,  by  Jean  de  Troyes. 
Translated  by  Andrew  R.  Scoble. 
With  Portraits.  2  vols.  3^.  6d. 
each. 

DEFOE'S  Novels  and  Miscel- 
laneous Works.  With  Prefaces 
and  Notes,  including  those  attri- 
buted to  Sir  W.  Scoit.  7  vols. 
35.  (:d.  each. 

I.— Captain  Singleton,  and 
Colonel  Jack. 

II. — Memoirs  of  a  Cavalier, 
Captain  Carleton, 
Dickory  Cronke,  &c. 

III. —Moll  Flanders,  and  the 
History  of  the  Devil. 

IV. — Roxana,  and  Life  of  Mrs. 
Christian  Davies. 

V.  —History  of  the  Great  Plague 
of  London,  1665  ;  The 
Storm  (1703) ;  and  the 
True-born  Englishman. 

VI. — Duncan  Campbell,  New 
Voyage  round  the 
World,  and  Political 
Tracts. 

VII. — Robinson  Crusoe. 

DE  LOLME  on  the  Constitution 
of  England.  Edited  by  John 
Macgregor.     3J.  6d, 


8 


An  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


DEMMIN'S  History  of  Arms 
and  Armour,  from  the  Earliest 
Period.  By  Auguste  Demmin. 
Translated  by  C.  C.  Black,  M.A. 
With  nearly  2000  Illustrations. 
^s.  6d. 

DEMOSTHENES'  Orations. 
Translated  by  C.  Rann  Kennedy. 
5  vols.  Vol.  I. ,  3^.  6d. ;  Vols. 
II.-V.,  5J.  each. 

DE  STAEL'S  Corinne  or  Italy. 
By  Madame  de  Stael.  Trans- 
lated by  Emily  Baldwin  and 
Paulina  Driver.     3^.  6d. 

DEVEY'S  Logic,  or  the  Science 
of  Inference.  A  Popular  Manual. 
By  J.  Devey.     ^s. 

DICTIONARY  of  Latin  and 
Greek  Quotations ;  including 
Proverbs,  Maxims,  Mottoes,  Law 
Terms  and  Phrases.  With  all  the 
Quantities  marked,  and  English 
Translations.  With  Index  Ver- 
borum  (622  pages).     5^. 

DICTIONARY  of  Obsolete  and 
Provincial  English.  Compiled 
by  Thomas  Wright,  M.A.,  F.S  A., 
&c.     2  vols.     <fS.  each. 

DIDRON'S  Christian  Icono- 
graphy: a  History  of  Christian 
Art  in  the  Middle  Ages.  Trans- 
lated by  E.  J.  Millington  and 
completed  by  Margaret  Stokes. 
With  240  Illustrations.  2  vols. 
5 J.  each. 

DIOGENES  LAERTIUS.  Lives 
and  Opinions  of  the  Ancient 
Philosophers.  Translated  by 
Prof.  C.  D.  Yonge,  M.A.     55. 

DOBREE'S  Adversaria.  Edited 
by  the  late  Prof.  Wagner,  2  vols. 
5J-.  each. 

D  ODD'S  Epigrammatists.  A 
Selection  from  the  Epigrammatic 
Literature  of  Ancient,  Mediaeval, 
and  Modern  Times.  By  the  Rev. 
Henry  Philip  Dodd,  M.A.  Ox- 
fosd.  2nd  Edition,  revised  and 
enlarged.    Ss. 


DONALDSON'S  The  Theatre  of 
I  the  Greeks.  A  Treatise  on  the 
History  and  Exhibition  of  the 
Greek  Drama.  With  numerous 
Illustrations  and  3  Plans.  By  John 
William  Donaldson,  D.D.     5^. 

DRAPER'S  History  of  the 
Intellectual  Development  of 
Europe.  By  John  William  Draper, 
M.D.,  LL.D.     2  vols.     Sj.  each. 

DUNLOP'S  History  of  Fiction. 
A  new  Edition.  Revised  by 
Henry  Wilson.    2  vols.    ^s.  each. 

DYER  (Dr  T.  H.).     Pompeii :  its 

Buildings  and  Antiquities.  By 
T.  H.  Dyer,  LL.D.  With  nearly 
300  Wood  Engravings,  a  large 
Map,  and  a  Plan  of  the  Forum, 
7J.  6d. 

The  City  of  Rome  :  its  History 

and  Monuments.  With  Illustra- 
tions.    5^. 

DYER  (T.  P.  T.)  British  Popular 
Customs,  Present  and  Past. 
An  Account  of  the  various  Games 
and  Customs  associated  with  Dif- 
ferent Days  of  the  Year  in  the 
British  Isles,  arranged  according 
to  the  Calendar.  By  the  Rev. 
T.  F.  Thiselton  Dyer,  M.A.     5^, 

EBERS'  Eg3nptian  Princess.  An 
Historical  Novel.  By  George 
Ebers.  Translated  by  E.  S. 
Buchheim.     3^.  6d. 

EDGEWORTH'S  Stories  for 
Children.  With  8  Illustrations 
by  L.  Speed.     31.  6d. 

ELZE'S    William    Shakespeare. 

— See  Shakespeare. 

EMERSON'S    Works.      3   vols 
35.  6d.  each. 
I. — Essays,  Lectures  and  Poems. 
II. — English  Traits,  Nature,  and 
Conduct  of  Life. 


Contained  in  Bohn's  Libr 


'aries. 


9 


Emerson's  Works  continued. 

III. — Society  and  Solitude — Letters 
and  Social  aims  —  Miscel- 
laneous Papers  (hitherto 
uncollected)  —  May  Day, 
and  other  Poems. 

ELLIS  (G.)  Specimens  of  Early 
English  Metrical  Romances. 
With  an  Historical  Introduction 
on  the  Rise  and  Progress  of 
Romantic  Composition  in  France 
and  England.  Revised  Edition. 
By  J.  O.  Halliwell,  F.R.S.     5^. 

ENNEMOSER'S  History  of 
Magic.  Translated  by  William 
Howitt.     2  vols.     5^-.  each. 

EPICTETUS,  The  Discourses  of. 
With  the  Encheiridion  and 
Fragments.  Translated  by  George 
Long,  M.A.     5^. 

EURIPIDES.  A  New  Literal 
Translation  in  Prose.  By  E  P. 
Coleridge,  M.A.   2  vols.    5^.  each. 

EUTROPIUS.— .S'^^  Justin. 

EUSEBIUS  PAMPHILUS, 
Ecclesiastical  History  of.  Trans- 
lated by  Rev.  C. F. Cruse,M.  A.  51. 

EVELYN  S  Diary  and  Corre- 
spondendence.  Edited  from  the 
Original  MSB.  by  W.  Bray, 
F.A.S.  With  45  engravings.  4 
vols.  5^-.  each. 

FAIRHOLT'S  Costume  in  Eng- 
land. A  History  of  Dress  to  the 
end  of  the  Eighteenth  Century. 
3rd  Edition,  revised,  by  Viscount 
Dillon,  V.P.S.A.  Illustrated  with 
above  700  Engravings.  2  vols. 
5j.  each, 

FIELDING'S  Adventures  of  i 
Joseph  Andrews  and  his  Friend  ! 
Mr.  Abraham  Adams.  With  j 
Cruikshank's  Illustrations,   y.  6d. 

History  of  Tom    Jones,    a 

Foundling.     With  Cruikshank's 
Illustrations.  2  vols.  3^.  6d.  each. 

Amelia.     With    Cruikshank's 

lUustratioDS.     5.r. 


FLAXMAN'S  Lectures  on  Sculp- 
ture. By  John  Flaxman,  R.A. 
With  Portrait  and  53  Plates.     6s. 

FLORENCE  of  WORCESTER'S 
Chronicle,  with  the  Two  Con- 
tinuations :  comprising  Annals  of 
English  History,  from  the  De- 
parture of  the  Romans  to  the 
Reign  of  Edward  I.  Translated 
by  Thomas  Forester,  M.A.     5^. 

FOSTER'S  (John)  Life  and  Cor- 
respondence. Edited  by  J.  E. 
Ryland.     2  vols.     3^-.  6d.  each. 

Critical  Essays.     Edited  by 

J.    E.  Ryland.     2  vols.       3^.   6d. 
each. 


:  on  Decision  of  Cha- 
racter ;  on  a  Man's  writing  Me- 
moirs of  Plimself ;  on  the  epithet 
Romantic ;  on  the  aversion  of 
Men  of  Taste  to  Evangelical  Re- 
ligion.    3^.  6d, 

Essays  on  the  Evils  of  Popular 

Ignorance ;  to  which  is  added,  a 
Discourse  on  the  Propagation  of 
Christianity  in  India.     3^.  6d. 

Essays  on  the  Improvement 

of  Time.  With  Notes  of 
Sermons  and  other  Pieces. 
3s.  6d. 

GASPARY'S  History  of  Italian 
Literature.  Translated  by  Her- 
man Oelsner,  M.A.,  Ph.D. 
Vol.  I.     3^.  6d. 

GEOFFREY  OF  MONMOUTH, 
Chronicle  of.— .9^^  0/d  English 
Chronicles, 

GESTA  ROMANORUM,  or  En- 
tertaining Moral  Stories  invented 
by  the  Monks.  Translated  by  the 
Rev.  Charles  Swan.  Revised 
Edition,  by  Wynnard  Hooper, 
B.A.     5i. 


GIL  DAS,  Chronicles  of. 
English  Chronicles, 


See  Old 


ro 


An  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


IBBON'S  Decline  and  Pall  of 
the  Roman  Empire.  Complete 
and  Unabridged,  with  Variorum 
Notes.  Edited  by  an  English 
Churchman.  With  2  Maps  and 
Portrait.     7  vols.     35-.  6d.  each. 

aiLBART'S  History,  Principles, 
and  Practice  of  Banking.  By 
the  late  J.  W.  Gilbart,  F.R.S. 
New  Edition,  revised  by  A.  S. 
Michie.     2  vols.     105. 

GrIL  BLAS,  The  Adventures  of. 
Translated  from  the  French  of 
Lesage  by  Smollett.  With  24 
Engravings  on  Steel,  after  Smirke, 
and  10  Etchings  by  George  Cruik- 
shank.     6s. 

aiR  ALDUS  CAMBRENSIS' 
Historical  Works.  Translated 
by  Th.  Forester,  M.A.,  and  Sir 

R.  r.nlt  Hoairc.      Revised  Edition, 

Edited  by  Thomas  Wright,  M.  A., 
F.S.A.     55. 
GOETHE'S  Faust.    Parti.    Ger- 
man Text  with  Hayward's  Prose 
Translation  and  Notes.     Revised 
by  C.  A.  Buchheim,  Ph.D.     5^. 
GOETHE'S   Works.     Translated 
into    English  by   various  hands. 
14  vols.     35.  6d.  each. 
I.  and  II. — Autobiography  and 
Annals. 
III. —  Faust.      Two    Parts,    com- 
plete.    (Swan  wick.) 
IV.— Novels  and  Tales, 
v.— Wilhelm  Meister's  Appren- 
ticeship. 
VI. — Conversations   with    Ecker- 
mann  and  Soret. 
VIII.— Dramatic  Works. 
IX.— Wilhelm  Meister's  Travels. 
X. — Tour  in  Italy,  and  Second 
Residence  in  Rome. 
XI. — Miscellaneous  Travels. 
XII. — Early     and     Miscellaneous 

Letters. 
XIII. — Correspondence  with  Zelter. 
XIV.—Reineke  Fox,  West-Eastern 
Divan  and  Achilleid. 


GOLDSMITH'S  Works.    A  new 

Edition,  by  J.  W.  M.  Gibbs.     5 
vols.     3^-.  (id.  each. 

GRAMMONT'S  Memoirs  of  the 
Court  of  Charles  II.  Edited  by 
Sir  Walter  Scott.  Together  with 
the  BoscOBEL  Tracts,  including 
two  not  before  published,  *c. 
New  Edition.     5^. 

GRAY'S  Letters.  Including  the 
Correspondence  of  Gray  and 
Mason.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
D.  C.  Tovey,  M.A.  Vols.  I. 
and  II.  3 J.  6d.  each. 

GREEK  ANTHOLOGY.  Trans- 
lated by  George  Burges,  M.A.    5^. 

GREEK  ROMANCES  of  Hello- 
dorus,  Longus,  and  Achilles 
Tatius — viz.,  The  Adventures  of 
Theagenes  &  Chariclea  ;  Amours 
of  Daphnis  and  Chloe  ;  and  Loves 
of  Clitopho  and  Leucippe.  Trans- 
lated by  Rev.   R.   Smith,   M.A. 

GREGORY'S  Letters  on  the 
Evidences,  Doctrines,  &  Duties 
of  the  Christian  Religion.  By 
Dr.  Olinthus  Gregory,     y,  6d. 

GREENE,  MARLOWE,  and 
BEN  JONSON.  Poems  of. 
Edited  by  Robert  Bell.     3^.  ed. 

GRIMM'S  TALES.  With  the 
Notes  of  the  Original.  Translated 
by  Mrs.  A.  Hunt.  With  Intro- 
duction by  Andrew  Lang,  M.A. 
2  vols.     35.  6d.  each. 

Gammer  Grethel ;  or,  Ger- 
man Fairy  Tales  and  Popular 
Stories.  Containing  42  Fairy 
Tales.  Trans,  by  Edgar  Taylor. 
With  numerous  Woodcuts  after 
George  Cruikshank  and  Ludwig 
Grimm.     3^.  (>d. 

GROSSI'S  Marco  Visconti. 
Translated  by  A.  F.  D.  The 
Ballads  rendered  into  English 
Verse  by  C.  M.  P.     3.?.  dd. 


Contained  in  Bohn's  Libraries, 


II 


a^UIZOT'S  History  of  the 
English  Revolution  of  1640. 
From  the  Accession  of  Charles 
I.  to  his  Death.  Translated  by 
William  Hazlitt.     3^.  6^. 

History  of  Civilisation,  from 

the  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  to 
the  French  Revolution.  Trans- 
lated by  William  Hazlitt.  3  vols. 
y,  6d.  each. 

HALL'S  (Rev.  Robert)  Miscel- 
laneous Works  and  Remains. 

HAMPTON  COURT:  A  Short 
History  of  the  Manor  and 
Palace.  By  Ernest  Law,  B.A. 
With  numerous  Illustrations,     ^s. 

HARD  WICK'S  History  of  the 
Articles  of  Religion.  By  the  late 
C.  Hardwick.  Revised  by  the 
Rev.  Francis  Procter,  M.A.    5^. 

HAUFF'S  Tales.  The  Caravan— 
The  Sheik  of  Alexandria— The 
Inn  in  the  Spessart.  Trans,  from 
the  German  by  S.  Mendel.  31. 6d. 

HAWTHORNE'S  Tales.     4  vols. 
3 J.  6d,  each. 
I.— Twice-told   Tales,    and   the 

Snow  Image. 
II.— Scarlet  Letter,andthe  House 
with  the  Seven  Gables. 
III. — Transformation  [The  Marble 
Faun],  and  Blithedale  Ro- 
mance. 
IV. — Mosses  from  an  Old  Manse. 

HAZLITT'S  Table-talk.  Essays 
on  Men  and  Manners.  By  W. 
Hazlitt.     3^.  6d. 

Lectures  on  the  Literature 

of  the  Age  of  Elizabeth  and  on 
Characters  of  Shakespeare's  Plays. 
3J.  6d. 

Lectures    on    the    English 

Poets,  and  on  the  English  Comic 
Writers.     3^.  dd. 

The  Plain  Speaker.  Opinions 

on  Books,  Men,  and  Things,  y.  6d. 

Round  Table.     3^.  6d. 


HAZLITT'S     Sketches      and 

Essays.   3^.  6d. 
The  Spirit  of  the  Age ;    or, 

Contemporary  Portraits.     Edited 

by  W.  Carew  Hazlitt.     3J.  6d. 
View  of  the  English  Stage. 

Edited  by  W.  Spencer  Jackson. 

3s.  6d. 

HEATON'S  Concise  History  of 
Painting.  New  Edition,  revised 
by  Cosmo  Monkhouse.     5^. 

HEGEL'S  Lectures  on  the  Philo- 
sophy of  History.  Translated  by 
J.  Sibree,  M.A. 

HEINE'S  Poems,  Complete 
Translated  by  Edgar  A.  Bowring, 
C.B.     3j.  6d. 

Travel-Pictures,  including  the 

Tour  in  the  Harz,  Norderney,  and 
Book  of  Ideas,  together  with  the 
Romantic  School.  Translated  by 
Francis  Storr.  A  New  Edition, 
revised  throughout.  With  Appen- 
dices and  Maps.     3^.  6d. 

HELP'S  Life  of  Christopher 
Columbus,  the  Discoverer  of 
America.  By  Sir  Arthur  Helps, 
K.C.B.     ss.  6d. 

Life   of  Hernando    Cortes, 

and  the  Conquest  of  Mexico.  2 
vols.     3J-.  6d.  each. 

Life  of  Pizarro.     3i^.  6d. 

Life  of  Las  Casas  the  Apostle 

of  the  Indies.     3s.  6d. 

HENDERSON  (E.)  Select  His- 
torical  Documents  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  including  the  most  famous 
Charters  relating  to  England,  the 
Empire,  the  Church,  &c.,  from 
the  6th  to  the  14th  Centuries. 
Translated  from  the  Latin  and 
edited  by  Ernest  F.  Henderson, 
A.B,,  A.M.,  Ph.D.     5j, 

HENFREY'S  Guide  to  English 
Coins,  from  the  Conquest  to  the 
present  time.  New  and  revised 
Edition  by  C.  F.  Keary,  M.A., 
F.S.A.     6s. 

HENRY  OF  HUNTINGDON'S 
History  of  the  English.  Trans- 
lated by  T.  Forester,  M.A.     Sj. 


12 


A7t  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


HENRY'S  (Matthew)  Exposition 
of  the  Book  of  the  Psalms.     55. 

HELIODORUS.  Theagenes  and 
Ohariclea.  —  See  Greek  Ro- 
mances. 

HERODOTUS.  Translated  by  the 
Rev.  Henry  Gary,  M.A.     3^.  6^. 

Notes  on.  Original  and  Se- 
lected from  the  best  Commenta- 
tors. By  D.  W.  Turner,  M.A. 
With  Coloured  Map.     Sj. 

Analysis  and  Summary  of 

By  J.  T.  Wheeler.     5^. 

HESIOD,  CALLIMACHUS,  and 
THEOGNIS,  Translated  by  the 
Rev.  J.  Banks,  M.A.     5^. 

HOFFMANN'S  (E.  T.  W.)  The 
Serapion  Brethren.  Translated 
from  the  German  by  Lt. -Col.  Alex. 
Ewing.     2  vols.     3^.  dd.  each. 

HOLBEIN'S  Dance  of  Death 
and  Bible  Cuts.  Upwards  of  150 
Subjects,  engraved  in  facsimile, 
with  Introduction  and  Descrip- 
tions by  Francis  Douce  and  Dr. 
Thomas  Frognall  Dibden.     5j. 

HOMER'S  Iliad.  Translated  into 
English  Prose  by  T.  A.  Buckley, 
B.A.     5  J. 

Odyssey.    Hymns,  Epigrams, 

and  Battle  of  the  Frogs  and  Mice. 
Translated  into  English  Prose  by 
T.  A.  Buckley,  B.A.     5^. 

See  also  Pope. 

HOOPER'S  (G.)  Waterloo  :   The 

Downfall  of  the  First  Napo- 
leon :  a  History  of  the  Campaign 
of  18 1 5.  By  George  Hooper. 
With  Maps  and  Plans.     3^.  dd. 

The   Campaign   of   Sedan  : 

The  Downfall  of  the  Second  Em- 
pire, August  -  September,  1870. 
With  General  Map  and  Six  Plans 
of  Battle,     y.  (>d. 

HORACE.  A  new  literal  Prose 
tianslation,  by  A.  Hamilton  Bryce, 
LL.D.     3i.  W. 


HUGO'S  (Victor)  Dramatic 
Works.  Hernani— Ruy  Bias— 
The  King's  Diversion.  Translated 
by  Mrs.  Newton  Crosland  and 
F.  L.  Slous.     3^.  6d. 

Poems,  chiefly  Lyrical.  Trans 

lated  by  various  Writers,  now  first 
collected  by  J.  H.  L.  Williams 
3^.  6d, 

HUMBOLDT'S  Cosmos.  Trans 
lated  by  E.  C.  Otte,  B.  H.  Paul 
and  W.  S.  Dallas,  F.L.S.  5  vols 
35.  6d.  each,  excepting  Vol.  V.  5^ 

Personal   Narrative    of   his 

Travels  to  the  Equinoctial  Regions 
of  America  during  the  years  1799- 
1804.  Translated  by  T.  Ross.  3 
vols.     5^.  each. 

Views  of  Nature.   Translated 

by  E.  C.  Otte  and  H.  G.  Bohn. 

HUMPHREYS'  Coin  Collector's 
Manual.  By  H.  N.  Humphreys, 
with  upwards  of  140  Illustrations 
on  Wood  and  Steel.  2  vols.  <^s. 
each. 

HUNGARY :  its  History  and  Re- 
volution,  together  with  a  copious 
Memoir  of  Kossuth.     3^.  6d. 

HUTCHINSON  (Colonel).  Me- 
moirs of  the  Life  of.  By  his 
Widow,  Lucy  :  together  with  her 
Autobiography,  and  an  Account 
of  the  Siege  of  Lathom  House. 
3J.  6d. 

HUNT'S  Poetry  of  Science.  By 
Richard  Hunt.  3rd  Edition,  re- 
vised and  enlarged.     5^. 

INDIA  BEFORE  THE  SEPOY 
MUTINY.  A  Pictorial,  De- 
scriptive, and  Historical  Ac- 
count, from  the  Earliest  Times 
to  the  Annexation  of  the  Punjab, 
with  upwards  of  100  Engravings 
on  Wood,  and  a  Map.     5^. 

INGULPH'H  Chronicles  of  the 
Abbey  of  Croyland,  with  the 
Continuation  by  Peter  of  Blois 
and  other  Writers.  Translated  by 
H.  T.  Riley,  M.A.     5^. 


Contained  in  BoJin's  Libraries. 


13 


IHVING'S    (Washington)  Com- 
plete Works.  15  vols.  With  Por- 
traits, &c.     3 J.  (id,  each. 
I. — Salmagundi,      Knicker- 
bocker's History  of  New 
York. 
II.— The  Sketch-Book,  and  the 
Life  of  Oliver  Goldsmith. 
III.— Bracebridge  Hall,    Abbots- 
ford  and  Newstead  Abbey. 
IV.— The  Alhambra,  Tales  of  a 

Traveller, 
v.— Chronicle  of  the   Conquest 
of  Granada,    Legends  of 
the  Conquest  of  Spain. 
VI.  &  VII. — Life    and    Voyages   of 
Columbus,  together  with 
the  Voyages  of  his  Com- 
panions. 
VIII.— Astoria,    A    Tour    on    the 
Prairies. 
XL— Life  of  Mahomet,  Lives  of  the 
Successors  of  Mahomet. 
X. — Adventures  of  Captain  Bon- 
neville, U.S.A.,  Wolfert's 
Roost. 
XL — Biographies   and    Miscella- 
neous Papers. 
XII.-XV.— Life  of  George  Wash- 
ington.    4  vols. 

Life    and    Letters.      By  his 

Nephew,  Pierre  E.  Irving.   2  vols. 
3^.  (id.  each. 

ISOCRATES,  The  Orations  of 
Translated  by  J.  H.  Freese,  M.A. 
Vol.  I.     SJ. 

JAMES'S  (G.  P.  R.)  Life  of 
Richard  Cceur  de  Lion.  2  vols. 
3^-.  dd.  each. 

The  Life  and  Times  of  Loms 

XIV.     2  vols.     3^.  dd.  each. 

JAMESON'S  (Mrs.)  Shake- 
speare's Heroines.  Character- 
istics of  Women:  Moral,  Poetical, 
and  Historical.  By  Mrs.  Jameson. 
IS.  6d. 

JESSE'S  (E.)  Anecdotes  of  Dogs. 
With  40  Woodcuts  and  34  Steel 
Engravings.     $s. 


JESSE'S  (J.  H.)  Memoirs  of  the 
Court  of  England  during  the 
Reign  of  the  Stuarts,  including 
the  Protectorate.  3  vols.  With 
42  Portraits.     5.?.  each. 

Memoirs  of  the  Pretenders 

and  their  Adherents.  With  6 
Portraits.     $s. 

JOHNSON'S  Lives  of  the  Poets. 
Edited  by  Mrs.  Alexander  Napier, 
with  Introduction  by  Professor 
Hales.     3  vols.     3^.  6d.  each. 

JOSEPHUS  (Flavius),  The  Works 
of.  Whiston's  Translation,  re- 
vised by  Rev.  A.  R.  Shilleto,  M.A 
With  Topographical  and  Geo. 
graphical  Notes  by  Colonel  Sir 
C.  W.  Wilson,  K.C.B.  5  vols. 
3^.  6d.  each. 

JOYCE'S  Scientific  Dialogues. 
With  numerous  Woodcuts.     5^. 

JUKES-BROWNE  (A.  J.),  The 
Building  of  the  British  Isles: 
a  Study  in  Geographical  Evolu- 
tion. Illustrated  by  numerous 
Maps  and  Woodcuts.  2nd  Edition, 
revised,  75.  6d. 

Student's     Handbook     of 

Physical  Geology.  With  nu- 
merous Diagrams  and  Illustra- 
tions. 2nd  Edition,  much  en- 
larged, 7^.  6d. 

JULIAN,  the  Emperor.  Contain- 
ing Gregory  Nazianzen's  Two  In- 
vectives and  Libanus'  Monody, 
with  Julian's  extant  Theosophical 
Works.  Translated  by  C.  W. 
King,  M.A.     5J-. 

JUSTIN  CORNELIUS  NEPOS, 
and  EUTROPIUS.  Translated 
by  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 

JUVENAL,  PERSIUS.  SUL- 
PICIA  and  LUCILIUS.  Trans- 
lated by  L.  Evans,  M.A.     ^s. 

JUNIUS'S  Letters.  With  all  the 
Notes  of  Woodfall's  Edition,  and 
important  Additions.  2  vols. 
3 J.  dd.  each. 


H 


A  71  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


KANT'S  Critique  of  Piufe  Reason. 

Translated  by  J.  M.  D,  Meikle- 
john.     5^. 

Prolegomena  and  Meta- 
physical Foundations  of  Natural 
Science.  Translated  by  E.  Bclfort 
Bax.     5^. 

KEIGHTLEY'S  (Thomas)  My- 
thology of  Ancient  Greece  and 
Italy.  4th  Edition,  revised  by 
Leonard  Schmitz,  Th.D.,  LL.D. 
With  12  Plates  from  the  Antique. 

Fairy  Mythology,  illustrative 

of  the  Romance  and  Superstition 
of  Various  Countries.  Revised 
Edition,  with  Frontispiece  by 
Cruikshank.     5^. 

LA  FONTAINE'S  Fables.  Trans- 
lated into  English  Verse  by  Elizur 
Wright.  New  Edition,  with  Notes 
by  J.  W.  M.  Gibbs.     3j.  ed. 

LAMARTINE'S  History  of  the 
Girondists.  Translated  by  II.  T. 
Ryde.      3  vols.     3^.  6d.  each. 

History  of  the  Restoration 

of  Monarchy  in  France  (a  Sequel 
to  the  History  of  the  Girondists). 
4  vols.     3^.  6d.  each. 

History  of  the  French  Re- 
volution of  1848.     3^.  6d. 

LAMB'S  (Charles)  Essays  of  EUa 
and  Eliana.  Complete  Edition. 
3^.  6d. 

Specimens  of  English  Dra- 
matic Poets  of  the  Time  of 
Elizabeth.     3^.  6d. 

Memorials   and  Letters    of 

Charles  Lamb.  By  Serjeant 
Talfourd.  New  Edition,  revised, 
by  W.  Carew  Hazlitt.  2  vols. 
3^.  6d.  each. 

Tales    from     Shakespeare 

With  Illustrations  by  Byam  Shaw. 
3i-.  6d. 

LANZI'S  History  of  Painting  In 
Italy,  from  the  Period  of  the 
Revival  of  the  Fine  Arts  to  the 
End  of  the  Eighteenth  Century. 
Translated  by  Thomas  Roscoe. 
3  vols.     3 J.  td.  each. 


LAPPENBERG'S  History  of 
England  under  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  Kings.  Translated  by 
B.  Thorpe,  P\S.A.  New  edition, 
revised  by  E.  C.  Ott^.  2  vols. 
3 J.  6d.  each. 

LECTURES  ON  PAINTING, 
by  Barry,  Opie,  Fuseli.  Edited 
by  R.  Wornum.     5^. 

LEONARDO  DA  VINCI'S 
Treatise  on  Painting.  Trans- 
lated by  J.  F.  Rigaud,  R.A., 
With  a  Life  of  Leonardo  by  John 
William  Brown.  With  numerous 
Plates.     5^. 

LEPSIUS'S  Letters  from  Egypt, 
Ethiopia,  and  the  Peninsula  of 
Sinai.  Translated  by  L.  and 
J.  B.  Horner.    With  Maps.     5-5. 

LESSING'S  Dramatic  Works, 
Complete.  Edited  by  Ernest  Bell, 
M.A.  With  Memoir  of  Lessing 
by  Helen  Zimmern.  2  vols. 
3^.  6d.  each. 

Laokoon,  Dramatic  Notes, 

and  the  Representation  ol 
Death  by  the  Ancients.  Trans- 
lated by  E.  C.  Beasley  and  Helen 
Zimmern.  Edited  by  Edward 
Bell,  M.A.  With  a  Frontispiece 
of  the  Laokoon  group.     3^.  6d. 

LILLY'S  Introduction  to  Astro- 
logy. With  a  Grammar  of 
Astrology  and  Tables  for  Cal- 
culating Nativities,  by  Zadkiel.  5^. 

LIVY'S  History  of  Rome.  Trans- 
lated by  Dr.  Spillan,  C  Edmonds, 
and  others.     4  vols.     5^.  each. 

LOCKE'S  Philosophical  Works. 
Edited  by  J.  A.  St.  John.  2  vols. 
3 J.  6d.  each. 

Life  and  Letters:     By  Lord 

King.     35.  (}d. 

LOCKHART  (J.  Qr.)-^See  Burns. 


Contained  in  Bokn's  Libraries. 


IS 


LODGE'S  Portraltsof  Illustrious 
Personages  of  Great  Britain, 
with  Biographical  and  Historical 
Memoirs.  240  Portraits  engraved 
on  Steel,  with  the  respective  Bio- 
graphies unabridged.  8  vols.  <^s. 
each. 

LONGFELLOW'S  Prose 
Works.  With  16  full- page  Wood 
Engravings.     5j. 

LOUDON'S  (Mrs.)  Natural 
History.  Revised  edition,  by 
W.  S.  Dallas,  F.L.S.  With 
numerous  Woodcut  lUus.     5-^' 

LOWNDES'  Bibliographer's 
Manual  of  English  Literature. 
Enlarged  Edition.  By  H.  G. 
Bohn.  6  vols,  cloth,  5^.  each. 
Or  4  vols,  half  morocco,  2/.  2s. 

LONGUS.  Daphnis  and  Chloe. 
— See  Greek  Romances. 

LUCAN'S  Pharsalia.  Translated 
by  H.  T.  Riley,  M.A.     5^. 

LUC  IAN' S  Dialogues  of  the 
Gods,  of  the  Sea  Gods,  and 
of  the  Dead.  Translated  by 
Howard  Williams,  M.A.     5^. 

LUCRETIUS.  Translated  by  the 
Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A.     5^. 

LUTHER'S  Table-Talk.  Trans- 
lated andi  Edited  by  William 
Hazlitt.     3^.  6c/. 

Autobiography.  —  See 

MiCHELET. 

MACHIAVELLI'S  History  of 
Florence,  together  with  the 
Prince,  Savonarola,  various  His- 
torical Tracts,  and  a  Memoir  of 
Machiavelli.     3^.  6^/. 

MALLET'S  Northern  Antiqui- 
ties,  or  an  Historical  Account  of 
the  Manners,  Customs,  Religions 
and  Laws,  Maritime  Expeditions 
and  Discoveries,  Language  and 
Literature,  of  the  Ancient  Scandi- 
navians. Translated  by  Bishop 
Percy.  Revised  and  Enlarged 
Edition,  with  a  Translation  of  the 
Prose  Edda,  by  J.  A.  Black- 
well.     5^. 


MANTELL'S  (Dr.)  Petrifactions 
and  their  Teachings,  With  nu- 
merous illustrative  Woodcuts.  6^. 

Wonders  of  Geology.     8th 

Edition,  revised  by  T.  Rupert 
Jones,  F.G.S.  With  a  coloured 
Geological  Map  of  England, 
Plates,  and  upwards  of  200 
Woodcuts.    2  vols.    7^.  ^d.  each. 

MANZONI.  The  Betrothed: 
being  a  Translation  of  *  I  Pro- 
messi  Sposi.'  By  Alessandro 
Manzoni.  With  numerous  Wood- 
cuts.    5^. 

MARCO    POLO'S    Travels;  the 

Translation  of  Marsden  revised 
by  T.  Wright,  M.A.,  F.S.A.     cj. 

MARRYAT'S  (Capt.  R.N.) 
Masterman  Ready.  With  93 
Woodcuts.     3j.  6rf. 

Mission;  or,  Scenes  in  Africa. 

Illustrated  by  Gilbert  and  Dalziel. 
3^.  (>d. 

Pirate  and  Three  Cutters. 

With  8  Steel  Engravings,  from 
Drawings  by  Clarkson  Stanfield, 
R.A.     3^.  dd. 

Privateersman.  8  Engrav- 
ings on  Steel.     3^.  da 

Settlers  in  Canada.  10  En- 
gravings by  Gilbert  and  Dalziel. 
3^,  dd. 

Poor  Jack.  With  16  Illus- 
trations after  Clarkson  Stansfield, 
R.A.     y.dd. 

Peter  Simple.  With  8  full- 
page  Illustrations.     3.?.  dd. 

Midshipman  Easy.    With  8 

full- page  Illustrations.     35.  6</. 

MARTIAL'S  Epigrams,  complete. 
Translated  into  Prose,  each  ac- 
companied by  one  or  more  Verse 
Translations  selected  from  the 
Works  of  EHglish  Poets,  and 
other  sources.     7^.  6</. 


i6 


A71  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


MARTINEAU'S  (Harriet)  His- 
tory of  England,  from  1800- 
1815.     3^.  6d. 

History  of  the  Thirty  Years' 

Peace,  a.d.  1815-46.  4  vols. 
3 J.  6d.  each. 

See  Comte's  Positive  Philosophy, 

MATTHEW  PARIS'S  English 
History,  from  the  Year  1235  to 
1273.  Translated  by  Rev.  J.  A. 
Giles,  D.C.L.     3  vols.     5^.  each. 

MATTHEW  OF  WESTMIN- 
STER'S Flowers  of  History, 
from  the  beginning  of  the  World 
to  A.D.  1307.  Translated  by  C.  D. 
Yonge,  M.A.     2  vols.     5^.  each. 

MAXWELL'S  Victories  of  Wel- 
ington  and  the  British  Annies. 
Frontispiece  and  5  Portraits.     51. 

MBNZEL'S  History  of  Germany, 
from  the  Earliest  Period  to  1842. 
3  vols.     35.  6d.  each. 

MICHAEL  ANGELO  AND 
RAPHAEL,  their  Lives  and 
Works.  By  Duppa  aud  Quatre- 
mere  de  Quincy.  With  Portraits, 
and  Engravings  on  Steel.     <,s. 

MICHELET'S  Luther's  Auto- 
biography. Trans,  by  William 
Hazlitt.  With  an  Appendix  (no 
pages)  of  Notes.     3^.  hd. 

History  of  the  French  Revo- 
lution from  its  earliest  indications 
to  the  flight  of  the  King  in  179 1. 
3J.  6d. 

MIGNET'SHistory  of  theFrench 
Revolution,  from  1789  to  18 14. 
3^.  dd. 

MILL  (J.  S.).  Early  Essays  by 
John  Stuart  Mill.  Collected  from 
various  sources  by  J.  W.  M.  Gibbs. 
Zs.6d. 

MILLER  (Professor).  History 
Philosophically  Illustrated,from 
the  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  to 
the  French  Revolution.  4  vols. 
3^.  dd.  each. 


MILTON'S  Prose  Works.  Edited 
by  J.  A.  St.  John.  5  vols.  3^.  6d. 
each. 

Poetical  Works,  with  a  Me- 
moir and  Critical  Remarks  by 
James  Montgomery,  an  Index  to 
Paradise  Lost,  Todd's  Verbal  Index 
to  all  the  Poem.s,  and  a  Selection 
of  Explanatory  Notes  by  Henry 
G.  Bohn.  Illustrated  with  120 
Wood  Engravings  firom  Drawings 
by  W.  Harvey.  2  vols.  3x.  (>d. 
each. 

MITFORD'S  (Miss)  Our  Village 
Sketches  of  Rural  Character  and 
Scenery.  With  2  Engravings  on 
Steel.     2  vols.     3^.  6d.  each. 

MOLIERE'S    Dramatic  Works. 

A    new  Translation    in  English 

Prose,  by  C.    H.  Wall.  3  vols. 
3^.  6d.  each. 

MONTAGU.  The  Letters  and 
Works  of  Lady  Mary  Wortley 
Montagu.  Edited  by  her  great- 
grandson,  Lord  WharnclifTe's  Edi- 
tion, and  revised  by  W.  Moy 
Thomas.  New  Edition,  revised, 
with  5  Portraits.  2  vols.  5^.  each. 

MONTAIGNE'S  Essays.  Cotton's 
Translation,  revised  by  W.  C. 
Hazlitt.  New  Edition.  3  vols. 
3^.  6rf.  each. 

MONTESQUIEU'S  Spirit  ol 
Laws.  New  Edition,  revised  and 
corrected.  By  J.  V.  Pritchard, 
A.M.     2  vols.     35.  6d.  each. 

MOTLEY  (J.  L.).  The  Rise  of 
the  Dutch  Republic.  A  History. 
By  John  Lothrop  Motley.  New 
Edition,  with  Biographical  Intro- 
duction by  Monoure  D.  Conway. 
3  vols.     3^^.  (id.  each. 

MORPHY'S  Games  of  Chess. 
r.eing  the  Matches  and  best  Games 
played  by  theAmerican  Champion, 
with  Explanatory  and  Analytical 
Notes  by  J.  Lowenthal.     5^. 


Coiitained  in  Bohns  Libraries. 


MUDIE'S  British  Birds ;  or,  His- 
tory of  the  Feathered  Tribes  of  the 
British  Islands.  Revised  by  W. 
C.  L.  Martin.  With  52  Figures 
of  Birds  and  7  Coloured  Plates  of 
Eggs.     2  vols. 

NEANDER  (Dr.  A.).  History 
of  the  Christian  Religion  and 
Church.  Trans,  from  the  German 
byJ.Torrey.    10  vols.  3J-.6rf.  each. 

Life  of  Jesus  Christ.  Trans- 
lated by  J.  McClintock  and  C. 
Blumenthal.     y.  (td. 

History  of  the  Planting  and 

Training  of  the  Christian 
Church  by  the  Apostles. 
Translated  by  J.  E.  Ryland. 
2  vols.     3 J.  6d.  each. 

Memorials  of  Christian  Life 

in  the  Early  and  Middle  Ages  ; 
including  Light  in  Dark  Places. 
Trans,  by  J.  E.  Ryland.     3^.  6d. 

NIBELUNGEN  LIED.  The 
Lay  of  the  Nibelungs,  metrically 
translated  from  the  old  German 
text  by  Alice  Horton,  and  edited 
by  Edward  Bell,  M.A.  To  which 
is  prefixed  the  Essay  on  the  Nibe- 
lungen  Lied  by  Thomas  Carlyle. 

NEW  TESTAMENT  (The)  in 
Greek.  Griesbach's  Text,  with 
various  Readings  at  the  foot  of 
the  page,  and  Parallel  References 
in  the  margin  ;  also  a  Critical 
Introduction  and  Chronological 
Tables.  By  an  eminent  Scholar, 
with  a  Greek  and  English  Lexicon. 
3rd  Edition,  revised  and  corrected. 
Two  Facsimiles  of  Greek  Manu- 
scripts.    900  pages.     5^. 

The  Lexicon  may  be  had  sepa- 
rately, price  2s. 

NICOLINI'S  History  of  the 
Jesuits :  their  Origin,  Progress, 
Doctrines,  and  Designs.  With  8 
Portraits.     51. 


NORTH  (R.)  Lives  of  the  Right 
Hon.  Francis  North,  Baron  Guild- 
ford, the  Hon.  Sir  Dudley  North, 
and  the  Hon.  and  Rev.  Dr.  John 
North.  By  the  Hon.  Roger 
North.  Together  with  the  Auto- 
biography of  the  Author.  Edited 
by  Augustus  Jessopp,  D.D.  3  vols. 
3 J.  6d.  each. 

NUGENT'S  (Lord)  Memorials 
of  Hampden,  his  Party  and 
Times.  With  a  Memoir  of  the 
Author,  an  Autograph  Letter,  and 
Portrait.     5^. 

OCKLEY  (S.)  History  of  the 
Saracens  and  their  Conquests 
in  Syria,  Persia,  and  Egypt. 
By  Simon  Ockley,  B.D.,  Professor 
of  Arabic  in  the  University  of 
Cambridge.     3^-.  6d. 

OLD  ENGLISH  CHRON- 
ICLES, including  Ethelwerd's 
Chronicle,  Asser's  Life  of  Alfred, 
Geoffrey  of  Monmouth's  British 
History,  Gildas,  Nennius,  and  the 
spurious  chronicle  of  Richard  of 
Cirencester.  Edited  by  J.  A. 
Giles,  D.C.L.     5^. 

OMAN  (J.  C.)  The  Great  Indian 
Epics :  the  Stories  of  the  Rama- 
YANA  and  the  Mahabharata. 
By  John  Campbell  Oman,  Prin- 
cipal of  Khalsa  College,  Amritsar. 
With  Notes,  Appendices,  and 
Illustrations,     "^s.  6d. 

ORDERICUS  VITALIS'  Eccle- 
siastical History  of  England 
and  Normandy.  Translated  by 
T.  Forester,  M.A.  To  which  is 
added  the  Chronicle  of  St. 
EvROULT.     4  vols.     5^.  each. 

OVID'S  Works,  complete.  Literally 
translated  into  Prose.  3  vols. 
5^.  each. 

PASCAL'S  Thoughts.  Translated 
from  the  Text  of  M.  Auguste 
Molinier  by  C.  Kegan  Paul.  3rd 
Edition.    3^.  6d. 


An  Alphabetcial  List  of  Books 


PAULI'S  (Dr.  R.)  Life  of  Alfred 
the  Great.  Translated  from  the 
German.  To  which  is  appended 
Alfred's  Anglo-Saxon  Version 
OF  Orosius.  With  a  literal 
Translation  interpaged,  Notes, 
and  an  Anglo-Saxon  Grammar 
and  Glossary,  by  B.  Thorpe.  5^. 

PAUSANIAS'  Description  of 
Greece.  Newly  translated  by  A.  R. 
Shilleto,  M.A.    2  vols.    5.?.  each. 

PEARSON'S  Exposition  of  the 
Greed.  Edited  by  E.  Walford, 
M.A.     5^. 

PEPYS'  Diary  and  Correspond- 
ence. Deciphered  by  the  Rev. 
J.  Smith,  M.A.,  from  the  original 
Shorthand  MS.  in  the  Pepysian 
Library.  Edited  by  Lord  Br<iy- 
brooke.  4  vols.  With  31  En- 
gravings.    5^*  each. 

PERCY'S  Reliques  of  Ancient 
English  Poetry.  With  an  Essay 
on  Ancient  Minstrels  and  a  Glos- 
sary. Edited  by  J.  V.  Pritchard, 
A.M.     2  vols.     3^.  6^.  each. 

PERSIUS.— i*^.?  Juvenal. 

PETRARCH'S  Sonnets,  Tri- 
umphs, and  other  Poems. 
Translated  into  English  Verse  by 
various  Hands.  With  a  Life  of 
the  Poet  by  Thomas  Campbell. 
With  Portrait  and  15  Steel  En- 
gravings.    5^. 

PHILO  -  JUDiEUS,  Works  of. 
Translated  by  Prof.  C.  D.  Yonge, 
M.A.     4  vols.     55.  each. 

PICKERING'S  History  of  the 
Races  of  Man,  and  their  Geo- 
graphical Distribution.  With  An 
Analytical  Synopsis  of  the 
Natural  History  of  Man  by 
Dr.  Hall.  With  a  Map  of  the 
World  and  12  coloured  Plates.  5^. 

PINDAR.  Translated  into  Prose 
by  Dawson  W.  Turner.  To  which 
is  added  the  Metrical  Version  by 
Abraham  Mi>ore.      %s. 


PLANCHE.    History  of  British 
Costume,  from  the  Earliest  Time 
to  the   Close  of  the  Eighteenth 
Century.       By    J.    R.    Planche, 
Somerset  Herald.    With  upwards 
of  400  Illustrations,     ^s. 
PLATO'S  Works.   Literally  trans- 
lated,    with     Introduction     and 
Notes.     6  vols.     5^.  each. 
I. — The   Apology   of   Socrates, 
Crito,  Phsedo,  Gorgias,  Pro- 
tagoras, Phsedrus,  Thesetetus, 
Euthyphron,  Lysis.      Trans- 
lated by  the  Rev.  H.  Carey. 
II. — The  Republic,    Timseus,   and 
Critias.  Translated  by  Henry 
Davis. 
III. — Meno,      Euthydemus,      The 
Sophist,  Statesman,  Cratylus, 
Parmenides,  and  the  Banquet. 
Translated  by  G.  Burges. 
IV. — Philebus,  Charmides,  Laches, 
Menexenus,     Hippias,    Ion, 
The  Two   Alcibiades,   The- 
ages.     Rivals,     Plipparchus, 
Minos,    Clitopho,     Epistles. 
Translated  by  G.  Burges. 
v.— The    Laws.       Translated    by 

G.  Burges. 
VI.— The  Doubtful  Works.    Trans- 
lated by  G.  Burges. 

Summary  and  Analysis  of 

the  Dialogues.    With  Analytical 
Index.     By  A.  Day,  LL.D.     5^. 
PLAUTUS'S   Comedies.     Trans- 
lated by  H.  T.  Riley,  M.A.     2 
vols.     '^s.  each. 
PLINY'S    Natural     History. 
Translated    by    the     late     John 
Bostock,  M.D.,  F.R.S.,  and  H.T. 
Riley,  M.A.     6  vols.     5^.  each. 
PLINY.     The  Letters  of  Pliny 
the  Younger.     Melmoth's  trans- 
lation, revised  by  the  Rev.  F.  C. 
T.  Bosanquet,  M.A.     5^. 
PLOTINUS,    Select    Works    of. 
Translated    by    Thomas  Taylor. 
With  an  Introduction  containing 
the  substance  of  Porphyry's  Plo- 
tinus.     Edited  by  G.  R.  S.  Mead, 
B.A.,  M.R.A.S.     S^. 


Contained  in  Bohn's  Libraries. 


19 


PLUTARCH'S  Lives.  Translated 
by  A,  Stewart,  M.A.,  and  George 
Long,  M.A..    4  vols.    3/.  6^.  each. 

Morals.  Theosophical  Essays. 

Translated  by  C.  W.  King,  M.A. 
Si. 

Morals.      Ethical    Essays. 

Translated  by  the  Rev.  A.  R. 
Shilleto,  M.A.     S^. 

POETRY  OF  AMERICA.  Se- 
lections from  One  Hundred 
American  Poets,  from  1776  to 
1876.     By  W.  J.  Linton.     3^.  6^. 

POLITICAL    CYCLOPiEDIA. 

A  Dictionary  of  Political,  Con- 
stitutional, Statistical,  and  Fo- 
rensic Knowledge ;  forming  a 
Work  of  Reference  on  subjects  of 
Civil  Administration,  Political 
Economy,  Finance,  Commerce, 
Laws,  and  Social  Relations.  4 
vols.     IS.  6d.  each. 

POPE'S  Poetical  Works.  Edited, 
with  copious  Notes,  by  Robert 
Carruthers.  With  numerous  Illus- 
trations.    2  vols.     5^.  each. 

Homer's  Iliad.      Edited    by 

the  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 
Illustrated  by  the  entire  Series  of 
Flaxm.an's  Designs.     5^. 

Homer's  Odyssey,  with  the 

Battle  of  Frogs  and  Mice,  Hymns, 
&c.,  by  other  translators.  Edited 
by  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 
With  the  entire  Series  of  Flax- 
man's  Designs.     5^. 

Life,   including   many   of  his 

Letters.  By  Robert  Carruthers. 
With  numerous  Illustrations.     $s. 

POUSHKIN'S  Prose  Tales:  The 
Captain's  Daughter — Doubrovsky 
—  The  Queen  of  Spades  —  An 
Amateur  Peasant  Girl— The  Shot 
—The  Snow  Storm— The  Post- 
master —  The  Coffin  Maker  — 
Kirdjali— The  Egyptian  Nights- 
Peter  the  Great's  Negro.  Trans- 
lated by  T.  Keane.     3;.  6J. 


PRESCOTT'S  Conquest  01 
Mexico.  Copyright  edition,  with 
the  notes  by  John  Foster  Kirk, 
and  an  introduction  by  G.  P. 
Winship.     3  vols.     3^.  ()d.  each. 

Conquest  of  Peru.  Copyright 

edition,  with  the  notes  of  John 
Foster  Kirk.    2  vols.    ^s.  6d.  each. 
— —  Reign    of    Ferdinand    and 
Isabella.        Copyright     edition, 
with   the    notes   of  John   Foster 
Kirk.     3  vols.     ^s.  6d.  each. 
PROPERTIUS.     Translated  by 
Rev.  P.  J.   F.  Gantillon,   M.A., 
and    accompanied     by     Poetical 
Versions,   from    various   sources. 
3^.  6d. 
PROVERBS,  Handbook  of.   Con- 
j       taining  an   entire    Republication 
I       of    Ray's   Collection   of  English 
j       Proverbs,  with  his  additions  from 
i       Foreign  Languages  and   a  com- 
I       pleteAlphabetical  Index;  in  which 
are  introduced  large  additions  as 
well  of  Proverbs  as  of  Sayings, 
Sentences,  Maxims,  and  Phrases, 
'       collected  by  H.  G.  Bohn.     $s. 
j  PROVERBS,    A    Polyglot    of 
I       Foreign.      Comprising    French, 
j       Italian,  German,  Dutch,  Spanish, 
I       Portuguese,  and   Danish.     With 
'       English  Translations  &  a  General 
Index  by  H.  G.  Bohn.     5^. 
POTTERY  AND  PORCELAIN, 
and  other  Objects  of  Vertu.   Com- 
prising an  Illustrated  Catalogue  of 
the  Bernal  Collection  of  Works 
of  Art,  with  the  prices  at  which 
they  were  sold   by  auction,  and 
names  of  the  possessors.    To  which 
are  added,  an  Introductory  Lecture 
on  Pottery  and  Porcelain,  and  an 
Engraved  List  of  all  the  known 
Marks  and  Monograms.  By  Henry 
G.  Bohn.     With  numerous  Wood 
Engravings,  $s. ;  or  with  Coloured 
Illustrations,  los.  6d. 
\  PROUT'S  (Father)  ReUques.  Col- 
lected and  arranged  by  Rev.   F. 
Mahony.      New    issue,    with   21 
I       Etchings    by    D.    Maclise,   R.A. 
I       Nearly  600  pages.     5^. 


20 


An  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


QUINTILIAN'S  Institutes  of 
Oratory,  or  Education  of  an 
Orator,  Translated  by  the  Rev. 
J.  S.  Watson,  M.A.  2  vols.  5^ 
each. 

U  A  O I N  E '  S  ( Jean )  Dramatic 
Works.  A  metrical  English  ver- 
sion. By  R.  Bruce  Boswell,  M.A. 
Oxon.     2  vols.     3^.  6</.  each. 

RANKE'S  History  of  the  Popes, 
their  Church  and  State,  and  espe- 
cially of  their  Conflicts  with  Pro- 
testantism in  the  i6th  and  17th 
centuries.  Translated  by  E. 
Foster.     3  vols.     35-.  dd.  each. 

History  of  Servla  and  the 

Servian  Revolution.  With  an 
Account  of  the  Insurrection  in 
Bosnia.   Translated  by  Mrs.  Kerr. 

zs.  ed. 

RECREATIONS  in  SHOOTING. 

By  •  Craven.'  With  62  Engravings 
on  Wood  after  Harvey,  and  9 
Engravings  on  Steel,  chiefly  after 
A.  Cooper,  R.A.     ^s. 

RENNIE'S  Insect  Architecture. 
Revised  and  enlarged  by  Rev. 
J.  G.  Wood,  M.A.  With  186 
Woodcut  Illustrations.     5^. 

REYNOLD'S  (Sir  J.)  Literary 
Works.  Edited  by  H.  W.  Beechy. 
2  vols.     IS.  6d.  each. 

RICARDO  on  the  Principles  of 
Political  Economy  and  Taxa- 
tion, Edited  by  E.  C.  K.  Conner, 
M.A.     5^. 

RICHTER  (Jean  Paul  Friedrich). 
Levana,  a  Treatise  on  Education: 
together  with  the  Autobiography 
(a  Fragment),  and  a  short  Pre- 
fatory Memoir.     3^'.  6d. 

Flower,  Fruit,  and   Thorn 

Pieces,  or  the  Wedded  Life,  Death, 
and  Marriage  of  Firmian  Stanis- 
laus Siebenkaes,  Parish  Advocate 
in  the  Parish  of  Kuhschnapptel. 
Newly  translated  by  Lt.-Col.Alex. 
Ewing.     3J.  6d, 


ROGER  DE  HOVEDEN'S  An- 
nals of  English  History,  com- 
prising the  History  of  England 
and  of  other  Countries  of  Europe 
from  A.D.  732  to  A.  D.  1201. 
Translated  by  H.  T.  Riley,  M.A. 
2  vols.     5^.  each. 

ROGER    OF    WENDOVER'S 

Flowers  of  History,  comprising 
the  History  of  England  from  the 
Descent  of  the  Saxons  to  a.d. 
l235,formevly  ascribed  to  Matthew 
Paris.  Translated  by  J.  A.  Giles, 
D.C.L.     2  vols.     5^.  each. 

ROME  in  the  NINETEENTH 
CENTURY.  Containing  a  com- 
plete Account  of  the  Ruins  of  the 
Ancient  City,  the  Remains  of  the 
Middle  Ages,  and  the  Monuments 
of  Modern  Times.  By  C.  A.  Eaton. 
With  34  Steel  Engravings.  2  vols. 
5 J.  each. 

See  Burn  and  Dyer. 

ROSCOE'S  (W.)  Life  and  Pontl- 
ficate  of  Leo  X.  Final  edition, 
revised  by  Thomas  Roscoe.  2 
vols.     3.f.  6d.  each. 

Life  of  Lorenzo  de'  Medici, 

called  *  the  Magnificent.'  With 
his  poems,  letters,  &c.  loth 
Edition,  revised,  with  Memoir  of 
Roscoe  by  his  Son.     3^.  6d. 

RUSSIA.  History  of,  from  the 
earliest  Period,  compiled  from 
the  most  authentic  sources  by 
Walter  K.  Kelly.  With  Portraits. 
2  vols,     y  6d.  each. 

SALLUST,  FLORUS,  and  VEL- 
LEIUS      PATERCULUS. 

Translated  by  J.  S.Watson,  M.A. 

SCHILLER'S  Works.  Translated 
by  various  hands.  7  vols.  3J.  6d. 
each : — 


-History  of  the  Thirty  Years' 
War. 


Contained  in  BoJitis  Libraries. 


21 


Schiller's  Works  continutd, 

II. — History  of  the  Revolt  in  the 
Netherlands,  the  Trials  of 
Counts Egmont  and  Horn, 
the  Siege  of  Antwerp,  and 
the  Disturbances  in  France 
preceding  the  Reign  of 
Henry  IV. 

III. — Don  Carlos,  Mary  Stuart, 
Maid  of  Orleans,  Bride  of 
Messina,  together  with  the 
Use  of  the  Chorus  in 
Tragedy  (a  short  Essay). 
These  Dramas  are  all 
translated  in  metre. 

IV.— Robbers  ( with  Schiller's 
original  Preface),  Fiesco, 
Love  and  Intrigue,  De- 
metrius, Ghost  Seer,  Sport 
of  Divinity. 

The    Dramas    in    this 
volume  are  translated  into 
Prose. 
V. — Poems. 

VI. —Essays,  yEsthetical  and  Philo- 
sophical 
VII. — Wallenstein's    Camp,    Pic- 
colomini    and    Death    of 
Wallenstein,  William  Tell. 

SCHILLER  and  GOETHE. 
Correspondence  between,  from 
A.D.  1794- 1805.  Translated  by 
L.  Dora  Schmitz.  2  vols.  3^.  (>d. 
each. 

SCHLEGEL'S  (F.)  Lectures  on 
the  Philosophy  of  Life  and  the 
Philosophy  of  Language.  Trans- 
lated by  the  Rev.  A.  J.  W.  Mor- 
rison, M.A.     3^.  6d. 

Lectures  on  the  History  of 

Literature,  Ancient  and  Modern. 
Translated  from  the  German.  y.6a. 

Lectures  on  the  Philosophy 

of  History.     Translated  by  J.  B. 
Robertson.     3i.  6d. 

SCHLEGEL'S  Lectures  on 
Modern  History,  together  with 
the  Lectures  entitled  Caesar  and 


Alexander,  and  The  Beginning  of 
our  History.  Translated  by  L. 
Purcell  and  R.  H.  Whitetock. 
3J.  6^. 

iEsthetic  and  Miscellaneous 

Works.  Translated  by  E.  J. 
Millington.     35.  6d. 

SCHLEGEL  (A.  W.)  Lectures 
on  Dramatic  Art  and  Literature. 
Translated  by  J.  Black.  Revised 
Edition,  by  the  Rev.  A.  J.  W. 
Morrison,  M.A.     3^.  6d. 

SCHOPENHAUER  on  the  Four- 
fold Root  of  the  Principle  of 
Sufficient  Reason,  and  On  the 
WiU  in  Nature.  Translated  by 
Madame  Hillebrand.     5^. 

Essays.  Selected  and  Trans- 
lated. With  a  Biographical  Intro- 
duction and  Sketch  of  his  Philo- 
sophy, by  E.  Belfort  Bax.     5^. 

SCHOUW'S  Earth,  Plants,  and 
Man.  Translated  by  A.  Henfrey. 
With  coloured  Map  of  the  Geo- 
graphy of  Plants.     5j. 

SCHUMANN  (Robert).  His  Life 
and  Works,  by  August  Reissmann. 
Translated  by  A.  L.  Alger.   3^.  6d. 

Early  Letters.  Originally  pub- 

blished  by  his  Wife.  Translated 
by  May  Herbert.  With  a  Preface 
by  Sir  George  Grove,  D.C.L. 
3^.  6d. 

SENECA  on  Benefits.  Newly 
translated  by  A.  Stewart,  M.A. 
3^.  6d. 

Minor  Essays  and  On  Clem- 
ency. Translated  by  A.  Stewart, 
M.A.     5J. 

SHAKESPEARE  DOCU- 
MENTS. Arranged  by  D.  H. 
Lambert,  B.A.     35-.  6d. 

SHAKESPEARE'S  Dramatic 
Art.  The  History  and  Character 
of  Shakespeare's  Plays.  By  Dr. 
Hermann  Ulrici.  Translated  by 
L.  Dora  Schmitz.  2  vols.  y.  6d. 
each. 


22 


An  Alphabetical  List  oj  Books 


SHAKESPEARE  (William).  A 
Literary  Biography  by  Karl  Elze, 
Ph.D.,  LL.D.  Translated  by 
L.  Dora  Schmitz.     51. 

SHARPE  (S.)  The  History  of 
Egypt,  from  the  Earliest  Times 
till  the  Conquest  by  the  Arabs, 
A.D.  640.  By  Samuel  Sharpe. 
2  Maps  and  upwards  of  400  Illus- 
trative Woodcuts.  2  vols.  5^.  each. 

SHERIDAN'S  Dramatic  Works, 
Complete.     With  Life  by  G.  G.  S. 

SISMONDI'S  History  of  the 
Literature  of  the  South  or 
Europe.  Translated  by  Thomas 
Roscoe.     2  vols.     3J.  dd.  each. 

SMITH'S  Synonyms  and  An- 
tonyms, or  Kindred  Words  and 
their  Opposites.  Revised  Edi- 
tion.    5j. 

Synonyms     Discriminated. 

A  Dictionary  of  Synonymous 
Words  in  the  English  Language, 
showing  the  Accurate  signification 
of  words  of  similar  meaning. 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  H.  Percy 
Smith,  M.A.     6j. 

SMITH'S  (Adam)  The  Wealth  of 
Nations.  Edited  by  E.  Belfort 
Bax.     2  vols.     1$.  6d.  each. 

Theory  of  Moral  Sentiments. 

With  a  Memoir  of  the  Author  by 
Dugald  Stewart,     ^s.  6d. 

SMYTH'S  (Professor)  Lectures 
on  Modern  History.  2  vols. 
35.  6d.  each. 

SMYTH'S  (Professor)  Lectures 
on  the  French  Revolution. 
2  vols.     3J.  6d.  each. 

SMITH'S  (  Pye )  Geology  and 
Scripture.     2nd  Edition.     5^. 

SMOLLETT'S  Adventures  01 
Roderick  Random.  With  short 
Memoir  and  Bibliography,  and 
Cruik.shank's  Illustrations.    3^.  6d. 


SMOiLETTS  Adventures  of 
Peregrine  Pickle.  With  Biblio- 
graphy and  Cruikshank's  Illus- 
trations.   2  vols.    3 J.  6d.  ea.ch.1 

The  Expedition  of  Hum- 
phry Clinker.  With  Bibliography 
and  Cruikshank's  Illustrations. 
3^.  6d. 

SOCRATES  (sumamed  '  Scholas- 
ticus ').  The  Ecclesiastical  His- 
toryof(A.n.  305-445).  Translated 
from  the  Greek.     5.?. 

SOPHOCLES,  The  Tragedies  of. 
A  New  Prose  Translation,  with 
Memoir,  Notes,  &c.,  by  E.  P. 
Coleridge,  M.A.     5^. 

SOUTH EY'S  Life  of  Nelson. 
With  Portraits,  Plans,  and  up- 
wards of  50  Engravings  on  Steel 
and  Wood.     55. 

Life  of  Wesley,  and  the  Rise 

and  Progress  of  Methodism.     5^. 

Robert  Southey.    The  Story 

of  his  Life  written  in  his  Letters. 
Edited  by  John  Dennis.     3^.  6d. 

SOZOMEN'S  Ecclesiastical  His- 
tory. Translated  from  the  Greek. 
Together  with  the  Ecclesiasti- 
cal History  of  Philostor- 
Gius,  as  epitomised  by  Photius. 
Translated  by  Rev.  E.  Walford, 
M.A.     5^ 

SPINOZA'S  Chief  Works.  Trans- 
■    lated,withIntroduction,byR.H.M. 
Elwes.     2  vols.     5j.  each. 

STANLEY'S  Classified  Synopsis 
of  the  Principal  Painters  of  the 
Dutch  and  Flemish  Schools, 
By  George  Stanley,     ^s. 

STARLING'S  (Miss)  Noble  Deeds 
of  Women.  With  14  Steel  En- 
gravings.    5  J. 

STAUNTON'S    Chess  -  Player's 

Handbook.     5.V. 
Chess  Praxis.    A  Supplement 

to  the  Chess-player's  Handbook. 

5^- 


Contained  hi  BoJin's  Libraries. 


23 


STAUNTON'S  Chess  -  player's 
Companion.  Comprising  a  Trea- 
tise on  Odds,  Collection  of  Match 
Games,  and  a  Selection  of  Original 
Problems.  5^-. 

Chess  Toiirnament  of  1851. 

With  Introduction  and  Notes.    5J. 

STOCKHARDT'S  Experimental 
Chemistry.  Edited  by  C.  W. 
Heaton,  F.C.S.     5^. 

STRABO'S  Geography.  Trans- 
lated by  W.  Falconer,  M.A., 
and  H.  C.  Hamilton.  3  vols. 
51.  each. 

STRICKLAND'S  (Agnes)  Lives 
of  the  Queens  of  England,  from 
the  Norman  Conquest.  Revised 
Edition.  With  6  Portraits.  6  vols. 
5^.  each. 

Life  of  Mary  Queen  of  Soots. 

2  vols.     5 J.  each. 

— —  Lives  of  the  Tudor  and  Stuart 
Princesses.     With  Portraits.     5j. 

STUART  and  REVETT'S  Anti- 
qtiities  of  Athens,  and  other 
Monuments  of  Greece.  With  71 
Plates  engraved  on  Steel,  and 
numerous  Woodcut  Capitals.     5^-. 

SUETONIUS'  Lives  of  the  Twelve 
Caesars  and  Lives  of  the  Gram- 
marians. Thomson's  translation, 
revised  by  T.  Forester.     55. 

SWIFT'S  Prose  Works.  Edited 
by  Temple  Scott.  With  a  Bio- 
graphical Introduction  by  the  Right 
Hon.  W.  E.  H.  Lecky,  M.P. 
With  Portraits  and  Facsimiles. 
12  vols.     35.  dd.  each. 

[  Vols.  L-X.  ready. 
I.— A  Tale  of  a  Tub,  The  Battle 
of  the  Books,  and  other 
early  works.  Edited  by 
Temple  Scott.  With  a 
Biographical  Introduction 
by  W.  E.  H.  Lecky. 
II.— The  Journal  to  Stella.  Edited 
by  Frederick  Ryland,M.  A. 
With  2  Portraits  and  Fac- 
vsimile. 


Swift's  Prose  Works  continued. 

III.&  IV. — Writings  on  Religion  and 
the  Church. 

V. — Historical  and  Political 
Tracts  (English). 

VI. — The  Drapier's  Letters. 
With  facsimiles  of  Wood's 
Coinage,  &c. 

VII. — Historical  and  PoHtical 
Tracts  (Irish). 

VIII.— Gulliver's  Travels.  Edited 
by  G.  R.  Dennis.  With 
Portrait  and  Maps. 

IX.  —Contributions  to  Periodicals. 

X. — Historical  Writings. 

XI. — Literary  Essays. 

[/«  preparation, 
XII. — Index  and  Bibliography. 

[/«  preparation. 

STOWE  (Mrs.  H.B.)  Uncle  Tom's 
Cabin.     Illustrated,     y.  6d. 

TACITUS.  The  Works  of.  Liter- 
ally translated.     2  vols.    5^.  each. 

TALES  OF  THE  GENII.  Trans- 
lated from  the  Persian  by  Sir 
Charles  Morell.  Numerous  Wood- 
cuts and  12  Steel  Engravings.    5^-. 

TASSO'S  Jerusalem  Delivered. 
Translated  into  English  Spenserian 
Verse  by  J.  H.  Wiffen.  With  8 
Engravings  on  Steel  and  24  Wood- 
cuts by  Thurston.     $s. 

TAYLOR'S  (Bishop  Jeremy) 
Holy  Living  and  Dying.   3^,  (>d. 

TEN  BRINK.— 6"^^  Brink. 

TERENCE  and  PH^DRUS. 

Literally  translated  by  H.  T.  Riley, 
M.  A.  To  which  is  added.  Smart's 
Metrical  Version  of  Phi^edrus.    5^. 

THEOCRITUS,  BION,  MOS- 
CHUS,  and  TYRTiEUS.  Liter- 
ally translated  by  the  Rev.  J. 
Banks,  M.A.  To  which  are  ap- 
pended the  Metrical  Versions  of 
Chapman.     5^. 


M 


24 


An  Alphabetical  List  of  Books 


THEODORET  and  EVAGRIUS. 
Histories  of  the  Church  from  A.d. 
332  to  A.D.  427  ;  and  from  a.d. 
431  to  A.D.  544.     Translated.     5^-. 

THIERRY'S  History  of  the 
Conquest  of  England  by  the 
Normans.  Translated  by  Wil- 
liam Hazlitt.  2  vols.  35.  6rf.  each, 

THUCYDIDES.  The  Pelopon- 
nesian  War.  Literally  translated 
by  the  Rev.  H.  Dale.  2  vols. 
3^.  dd.  each. 

An  Analysis  and  Summary 

of.     By  J.  T.  Wheeler.     5^. 

THUDICHUM  (J.  L.  W.)  A  Trea- 
tise on  Wines.    Illustrated.     5^. 

URE'S  (Dr.  A.)  Cotton  Manufac- 
ture of  Great  Britain.  Edited 
by  P.  L.  Simmonds.  2  vols.  5^. 
each. 

Philosophy  of  Manufactures. 

Edited  by  P.  L.  Simmonds.  7^.  dd. 

VASARI'S  Lives  of  the  most 
Eminent  Painters,  Sculptors, 
and  Architects.  Translated  by 
Mrs.  J.  Foster,  with  a  Commen- 
tary by  J.  P.  Richter,  Ph.D.  6 
vols.     3J.  dd.  each. 

VIRGIL.  A  Literal  Prose  Trans- 
lation by  A.  Hamilton  Bryce, 
LL.D.     With  Portrait,     y.  6d. 

VOLTAIRE'S  Tales.  Translated 
by  R.  B.  Boswell.  Containing 
Bebouc,  Memnon,  Candide,  L'ln- 
genu,  and  other  Tales.     3^.  6d. 

WALTON'S  Complete  Angler. 
Edited  by  Edward  Jesse.  With 
Portrait  and  203  Engravings  on 
Wood  and  26  Engravings  on 
Steel.     Sj. 

Lives  of  Donne,  Hooker,  &c. 

New  Edition  revised  by  A.  H. 
Bullen,  with  a  Memoir  of  Izaak 
Walton  by  Wm.  Dowling.  With 
numerous  Illustrations.     55. 

WELLINGTON,  Life  of.  By  *  An 
Old  Soldier.'  From  the  materials 
of  Maxwell.  With  Index  and  18 
Steel  Engravings.      5^. 


WELLINGTON,  Victories  of. 
See  Maxwell. 

WERNER'S  Templars  In 
Cyprus.  Translated  by  E.  A.  M. 
Lewis.     3J.  6d. 

WESTROPP  (H.  M.)  A  Hand- 
book  of  Archaeology,  Egyptian, 
Greek,  Etruscan,  Roman.  Illus- 
trated.    5  J. 

WHITE'S  Natural  History  of 
Selbome.  With  Notes  by  Sir 
William  Jardine.  Edited  by  Ed- 
ward Jesse.  With  40  Portraits 
and  coloured  Plates.      5^. 

WHEATLEY'S  A  Rational  Illus- 
tration of  the  Book  of  Common 
Prayer.     t,s.  6d. 

WHEELER'S  Noted  Names  of 
Fiction,  Dictionary  of.     s^s. 

WIESELER'S  Chronological 
Synopsis  of  the  Four  Gospels. 
Translated  by  the  Rev.  Canon 
Venables.     31.  6d. 

WILLI  AM  of  M  ALME  SBURY'S 
Chronicle  of  the  Kings  of  Eng- 
land. Translated  by  the  Rev.  J. 
Sharpe.  Edited  by  T-  A.  Giles, 
D.C.L.     5J. 

XENOPHON'S  Works.  Trans- 
lated by  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson, 
M.A.,  and  the  Rev.  H.  Dale.  In 
3  vols.     5j.  each. 

YOUNG  (Arthur).  Travels  in 
France  during  the  years  1787, 
1788,  and  1789.  Edited  by 
M.  Betham  Edwards.     3^.  6d. 

Tour  in  Ireland,  with 

General  Observations  on  the  state 
of  the  country  during  the  years 
1776  -  79.  Edited  by  A.  W. 
Hutton.  With  Complete  Biblio- 
graphy by  J.  P.  Anderson,  and 
Map.     2  vols.     3^.  6d.  each. 

YULE-TIDE  STORIES.  A  Col- 
lection of  Scandinavian  and  North- 
German  Popular  Tales  and  Tra- 
ditions.   Edited  by  B.  Thorpe.  $s. 


THE   YORK    LIBRARY 

A  NEW  SERIES  OF  REPRINTS  ON  THIN  PAPER. 

The  volumes  are  printed  in  a   handy  size  (6J  x  4^  in.),    on 

thin  but  opaque  paper,  aud  are  simply  and 

attractively  bound. 

Price,   in  cloth,   2S.  net  ;    in  leather,   3s.  net. 

*  The  York  Library  is  noticeable  by  reason  of  the  wisdom  and  intelli- 
gence displayed  in  the  choice  of  unhackneyed  classics.  ...  A  most 
attractive  series  of  reprints.  .  .  .  The  size  and  style  of  the  volumes  are 
exactly  what  they  should  be.' — Bookman. 

'  Charmingly  tasteful.' —  Westminster  Gazette. 

•  Among  favourite  "  thin  paper  "  books  none  are  better  done  than  the 
admirable  York  Library.  For  a  simple  and  attractive  binding  these 
volumes  stand  quite  among  the  first  of  their  kind.  The  price  is  two 
shillings  net,  and  they  are  exceedingly  good  value  for  the  money.' 

St.  lames''s  Ga^.ette. 

'  These  books  should  find  their  way  to  every  home  that  owns  any 
cultivation.' — Notes  and  Queries. 

'  A  series  of  books  which  for  attractiveness  and  handiness  would  take  a 
lot  of  beating.'— /^a//  Mat/  Gazette. 

'  One  of  the  most  beautiful  series  of  books  ever  issued  to  the  public,  and 
marvellously  chea.p.'—Manckester  Courier. 

The  following  volumes  are  now  ready : 

BURNEY'S    EVELINA.       Edited,    with    an    Introduction   and 
Notes,  by  Annie  Raine  Ellis. 

BURNEY'S     CECILIA.       Edited    by    Annie    Raine    Ellis. 

2  vols, 

BURTON'S  ANATOMY  OF  MELANCHOLY.     Edited  by  the 
Rev.    A.    R.  Shilleto,    M.A.,   with   Introduction  by  A.    H.   Bullen. 

3  vols. 

'  Admirers  of  "  Burton's  Anatomy  "  can  hardly  hope  for  a  better  edition.' 

Morning  Post. 

CERVANTES'  DON  QUIXOTE.     MOTTEUX's  Translation,  re- 
vised.   With  Lockhart's  Life  and  Notes.     2  vols. 

COLERIDGE'S  AIDS  TO  REFLECTION,  and  the  Confessions 

of  an  Inquiring  Spirit. 

COLERIDGE'S    FRIEND.      A   series   of    Essays   on    Morals, 
Politics,  and  Religion. 

COLERIDGE'S  TABLE  TALK   AND  OMNIANA.    Arranged 
and  Edited  by  T.  Ashe,  B.A. 

DRAPER'S    HISTORY    OF    THE    INTELLECTUAL     DE- 
VELOPMENT OF  EUROPE.    2  vols. 


The  York  'Libra-ry— continued. 

EMERSON'S  WORKS.  A  new  edition  in  5  volumes,  with  the 
Text  edited  and  collated  by  George  Sampson. 

***  The  contents  of  the  volumes  are  as  foUovs :  Vol,  /.—Essays  :  Reprc- 
scntalive  Men.  Vol.  II.— English  Traits:  Conduct  of  Life:  Nature.  Vol.  III. 
—Society  and  Solitude:  Letters  and  Social  Aims  :  Addresses.  Vol.  IV. — 
Miscellaneous  Pieces.     Vol.  V. — Poetical  Works. 

FIELDING'S  TOM  JONES.      2  vols. 

GESTA  ROMANORUM,  or  Entertaining  Moral  Stories  in- 
vented by  the  Monks.  Translated  from  the  Latin  by  the  Rev.  Charles 
Swan.     Revised  edition,  by  Wynxard  Hooper,  M.A. 

'To  those  whom  things  ancient  delight,  the  book  is  a  mine  of  enjoyment.  Its 
appearance  in  so  commodious  a  shape  is  a  subject  for  congratulation  .  .  .  The  "  York 
Library''  reprint  is  ideal.' — Notes  and  Qjieries. 

GOETHE'S  FAUST.  Translated  by  Anna  Swanwick,  LL.D. 
Revised  edition,  with  an  Introduction  and  Bibliography  by  Karl  Breul, 
Litt.D.,  Ph.D. 

'Will,  we  hope,  be  widely  patronised,  for  the  book  has  the  gi-eat  advantage  of 
an  admirable  introduction  and  bibliography  by  Dr.  Karl  Bruel.  No  one  speaks 
with  more  authority  on  the  subject.' — Athencputu. 

HAWTHORNE'S  TRANSFORMATION  (The  Marble  Faun). 

IRVING'S  SKETCH  BOOK. 

JAMESON'S  SHAKESPEARE'S  HEROINES.  Characteris- 
tics of  Women  :  Moral,  Poetical,  and  Historical. 

LAMB'S  ESSAYS.  Including  the  Essays  of  Elia,  Last  Essays 
of  Elia,  and  Eliana. 

MARCUS    AURELIUS    ANTONINUS,   THE    THOUGHTS 

OF.      Translated  by  George  Long,   ^LA.      With  an  Essay  on  Marcus 
Aurelius  by  Matthew  Arnold. 

MONTAIGNE'S  ESSAYS.  Cotton's  translation.  Revised  by 
W,  C.  Hazlitt.     3  vols. 

MORE'S  UTOPIA.  With  the  Life  ot  Sir  Thomas  More,  by 
William  Roper,  and  his  Letters  to  xMargaret  Roper  and  others.  Edited, 
with  Introduction  and  Notes,  by  George  Sampson.  [/«  the  Press. 

MOTLEY'S  RISE  OF  THE    DUTCH    REPUBLIC.      With  a 

Biographical  Introduction  by  Moncure  D.  Conway.     3  vols. 

PASCAL'S  THOUGHTS.  Translated  from  the  Text  of  M. 
Auguste  Molinier  by  C.  Kegan  Paul,     Third  edition. 

PLUTARCH'S  LIVES.  Translated,  with  Notes  and  a  Life  by 
Aubrey  Stewart,  M.A.,  and  George  Long,  M.A.     4  vols. 

SWIFT'S  GULLIVER'S  TRAVELS.  Edited,  with  Introduction 
and  Notes,  by  G.  R.  Dennis,  with  facsimiles  of  the  original  illustrations. 

SWIFT'S  JOURNAL  TO  STELLA.  Edited,  with  Introduction 
and  Notes,  by  F.  Ryland,  M.A. 

ARTHUR  YOUNG'S  TRAVELS  IN  FRANCE,  during  the 
years  1787,  1788,  and  1789.  Edited  with  Introduction  and  Notes,  by  M. 
Bktiiam  Edwards. 

Other  Volumes  are  in  Preparation. 


BELL'S    HANDBOOKS 


OF 


THE    GREAT    MASTERS 

IN   PAINTING  AND  SCULPTURE. 

Edited  by  G.  C.  WILLIAMSON,  Litt.D. 
Post  8vo.     With  40  Illustrations  and  Photogravure  Frontispiece,   ^s.  net  each. 


T/ie  following  Volumes  have  been  issued  : 
BOTTICELLI.     By  A.  Streeter.     2nd  Edition. 
BRUNELLESCHI.     By  Leader  Scott. 
CORREGGIO.     By  Selvvyn  Brinton,  M.A.     2nd  Edition. 
CARLO    CRIVELLI.      By  G.  McNeil  Rushforth,  M.A. 
DELLA  ROBBIA.     By  the  Marchesa  Burlamacchi.     2nd  Edition. 
ANDREA  DEL  SARTO.     By  H.  Guinness.    2nd  Edition. 
DONATELLO.     By  Hope  Rea.     2nd  Edition. 
GERARD  DOU.     By  Dr.  W.  Martin.     Translated  hy  Clara  Bell. 
GAUDENZIO  FERRARI.     By  Ethel  Halsey. 
FRANCIA.     By  George  C.  Williamson,  Litt.D. 
GIORGIONE.    By  Herbebt  Cook,  M.A. 
GIOTTO.     By  F.  Mason  Perkins. 
FRANS  HALS.     By  Gerald  S.  Davies,  M.A. 

BERNARDINO  LUINI.  By  George  C.  Williamson,  Litt.D.    3vd  Edition. 
LEONARDO  DA  VINCI.     By  Edward  McCurdy,  M.A. 
MANTEGNA.     By  Maud  Cruttwell. 
MEMLINC.     By  W.  H.  James  Weale. 
MICHEL  ANGELO.      By  Lord   Ronald  Sutherland   Gower,    M.A., 

F.S.A. 
PERUGINO.     By  G.  C.  Williamson,  Litt.D.     2nd  Edition. 
PIERO  DELLA  FRANCESCA.     By  W.  G.  Waters,  M.A. 
PINTORICCHIO.     By  Evelyn  March  Phillipps. 
RAPHAEL.     By  H.  Strachey.     2nd  Edition. 
REMBRANDT.     By  Malcolm  Bell.     2nd  Edition. 
RUBENS.     By  Hope  Rea. 

LUCA  SIGNORELLL     By  Maud  Cruttwell.     2nd  Edition. 
SODOMA.    By  the  Contessa  Lorenzo  Priuli-Bon. 
TINTORETTO.     By  J.  B.  Stoughton  Holborn,  M.A. 
VELASQUEZ.    By  R.  A.  M.  Stevenson.    3rd  Edition. 
WATTEAU.     By  Edgcumbe  Staley,  B.A. 
WILKIE.    By  Lord  Ronald  Sutherland  Gower,  M.A.,  F.S.A. 

Others  to  follow. 


THE 

CHISWICK  SHAKESPEARE 

Illustrated  by  BYAM   SHAW 
With  Introductions  and  Glossaries  by  JOHN  DENNIS. 


Printed  at  the  Chiswick  Press,  pott  8vo.,  price  \s.  6d.  net  per  volume ; 
also  a  cheaper  edition,  ij'.  net  per  volume  ;  or  2s.  net  in  limp  leather  ;  also 
a  few  copies,  on  Japanese  vellum,  to  be  sold  only  in  sets,  price  5^.  net  per 
volume. 

Now  Complete  in  39  Volumes. 

ALL'S  WELL  THAT  ENDS  LOVE'S  LABOUR'S  LOST. 

WELL.  MACBETPI. 

ANTONY  AND  CLEOPATRA.  MEASURE  FOR  MEASURE. 

AS  YOU  LIKE  IT.  MERCHANT  OF  VENICE. 

COMEDY  OF  ERRORS.  MERRY  WIVES  OF  WINDSOR. 

CORIOLANUS.  MIDSUMMER-NIGHT'S  DREAM. 

CYMBELINE.  MUCH  ADO  ABOUT  NOTHING. 

HAMLET.  OTHELLO. 

JULIUS  CESAR.  PERICLES. 

KING  HENRY  IV.     Part  I.  ROMEO  AND  JULIET. 

KING  HENRY  IV.     Part  II.  THE  TAMING  OF  THE  SHREW. 

KING  HENRY  V.  THE  TEMPEST. 

KING  HENRY  VI.     Part  I.  TIMON  OF  ATHENS. 

KING  HENRY  VI.     Part  II.  TITUS  ANDRONICUS. 

KING  HENRY  VI.     Part  HI.  TROILUS  AND  CRESSIDA. 

KING  HENRY  VIII.  TWELFTH  NIGHT. 

KING  JOHN.  TWO  GENTLEMEN  OF  VERONA. 

KING  LEAR.  WINTER'S  TALE. 

KING  RICHARD  II.  POEMS. 

KING  RICHARD  III.  SONNETS. 


*  A  fascinating  little  edition.' — Notes  and  Queries. 

•A  cheap,  very  comely,  and  altogether  desirable  edition.'— IVestminster  Gazette. 
But  a  few  years  ago  such  volumes  would  have  been  deemed  worthy  to  be  considered 
editiom  de  luxe.     To-day,  the  low  price  at  which  they  are  offered  to  the  public  alone 
prevents  them  being  so  regarded.' — Studio. 

'  Handy  in  shape  and  size,  wonderfully  cheap,  beautifully  printed  from  the  Cam- 
bridge text,  and  illustrated  quaintly  yet  admirably  by  Mr.  Byam  Shaw,  we  have  nothing 
but  praise  for  it.  No  one  who  wants  a  good  and  convenient  Shakespeare— -without 
excursuses,  discursuses,  or  even  too  many  notes — can  do  better,  in  our  opinion,  than 
subscribe  to  this  issue :  which  is  saying  a  good  deal  in  these  days  of  cheap  reprints.'— 
Vanity  Fair, 

'  What  we  like  about  these  elegant  booklets  is  the  attention  that  has  been  paid  to  the 
paper,  as  well  as  to  the  print  and  decoration ;  such  stout  laid  paper  will  last  for  ages. 
On  this  account  alone,  the  'Chiswick'  should  easily  be  first  among  pocket  Shake- 
speares.' —  Pall  Mall  Gazette. 

'■*■**  The  Chiswick  Shakespeare  may  also  Oe  had  hound  in  12  voliv/ies, 
full  %ilt  hack,  price  36^.  net. 


(  29  ) 

New  Editions,  foap.  8yo.  2s,  6d,  eaoh  net. 

THE    ALDINK     EDITION 


BRITISH     POETS. 

*Thi3  excellent  edition  of  the  English  classics,  with  their  complete  texts  and 
scholarly  introductions,  are  something  very  different  from  the  cheap  volumes  of 
extracts  which  are  just  now  so  much  too  common.' — St.  James's  Gazette. 

•An  excellent  series.    Small,  handy,  and  complete.'— Saturday  Beviexc. 


Akenslde.  Edited  by  Rev.  A.  Dyee. 
Beattle.  Edited  by  Rev.  A.  Dyoe. 
*Blake.  Edited  by  W.  M.  Rossetti. 
Edited  by  G.  A.  Aitken. 


•Burns. 

3  vols. 

Butler. 
2  vols. 


Edited  by  R.  B.  Johnson. 


Oampbell.  Edited  by  His  Son- 
in-law,  the  Rev.  A.  W.  HiU.  With 
Memoir  by  W.  Allingham. 

Ohatterton.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
W.  W.  Skeat,  M.A.    2  voh. 

Ohauoer.  Edited  by  Dr.  R.  Morris, 

with  Memoir  by  Sir  H.  Nicolas,  6  vols. 

Ohurchill.  Edited  by  Jas.  Hannay. 

2  vols, 

♦Coleridge.     Edited  by  T.  Ashe, 

B.A.    2  vols. 

Collins.       Edited    by    W.    Moy 

Thomas. 
Cowper.    Edited  by  John  Bruce, 
F.S.A.     3  vols. 

Dryden.    Edited  by  the  Rev.  R. 

Hooper,  M.A.    5  vols. 

Goldsmith.     Revised  Edition  by 

Austin  Dobson.    With  Portrait. 

*Gray.    Edited  by  J.  Bradshaw, 

LL.D. 

Herbert.    Edited  by  the  Rev  A.B. 

Grosart. 

*Herrick.       Edited     by     George 

Saintsbury.    2  vols. 

*Keats.  Edited  by  the  late  Lord 
Houghton.  Rev.  J.  Mitford. 


Elrke    White.      Edited,    with    a 

Memoir,  by  Sir  H.  Nicolas. 

Milton.    Edited  by  Dr.  Bradshaw. 

2  vols. 
PameU.    Edited  by  G.  A.  Aitken. 
Pope.     Edited  by  G.  R.  Dennis. 

With  Memoir  by  John  Dennis.    3  vola. 

Prior.  Edited  by  R.  B.  Johnson. 
2  vols. 

Raleigh  and  Wotton.  With  Se- 
lections from  the  Writings  of  other 
COURTLY  POETS  from  1540  to  1650. 
Edited  by  Ven.  Archdeacon  Hannah, 
D.C.L. 

Rogers.    Edited  by  Edward  Bell, 

M.A. 
Scott.     Edited  by  John  Dennis. 

5  vols. 

Shakespeare's  Poems.    Edited  by 

Rev.  A.  Dyce. 

Shelley,      Edited  by  H.  Buxton 

Forman.    5  vols. 

Spenser.    Edited  by  J.  Payne  Col- 
lier.   5  vols, 
Surrey.    Edited  by  J,  Yeowell, 
Swift.      Edited    by    the    Rev.    J, 

Mitford.    3  vols. 

Thomson.    Edited  by  the  Rev.  D. 

C.  Tovey.    2  vols. 
V  a  Ugh  an.    Sacred  Poems  and 

Pious   Ejaculations.      Edited    by  the 
Rev.  H.  Lyte. 

Wordsworth.      Edited    by  Prof. 

Dowden.    7  vols. 

Wyatt.    Edited  by  J.  'I^eowell. 
Young.     2  vols.     Edited  by,  the 


These  volumes  may  also  be  had  bound  in  Irish  linen,  with  design  in  gold  onl  side 
and  back  by  Gleeson  White,  and  gilt  top,  3s.  Gd.  each  net. 


THE    ALL-ENGLAND    SERIES. 

HANDBOOKS  OF   ATHLETIC   GAMES. 

The  only  Series  issned  at  a  moderate  price,  by  Writers  who  are  In 

the  first  rank  in  their  respective  departments. 

'  The  best  instruction  on  games  and  sports  by  the  best  authorities,  at  the  lowest 
prices.'— Oai/ord  Magazine. 

Small  8yo.  cloth,  Illustrated.    Price  Is.  each. 


Cricket.    By  Fred  C.  Holland. 
Cricket.    By  the  Hon.  and  Eev. 

E.  Ltttelton, 
Croquet.    By  Lieut. -Col.  the  Hon. 

H.  C.  Needham. 
Lawn    Tennis.     By    H.  W.   W. 

WiLBERFOECE.     With  a  Chapter  for 

Ladies,  by  Mrs.  Hilltard. 
Squash  Tennis.     By  Eustace  H. 

Miles.     Double  vol.     2s. 

Tennis  and  Rackets  and  Fives. 

By  Julian  Marshall,  Major  J.  Speks, 
and  Rev.  J.  A.  Arnan  Tait. 
aolf.      By    H.    S,    C.    Evekard. 

Double  vol.    2s. 

Rowing  and  Sculling.      By  Guy 

RlXON. 

Rowing  and  Sculling.    By  W.  B. 

Woodgate. 
Sailing.  ByE.F.  Knight,  dbl.vol.  2s. 
Swimming.    By  Martin  and  J. 

Racster  Cobbett. 
Camping  out.    By  A.  A.  Maodon- 

ELL.    Double  vol.    2s. 
Canoeing.    By  Dr.  J.  D.  Hatward. 

Double  vol.    2s. 
Mountaineering.     By  Dr.  Claude 

Wilson.    Double  vol.    2s. 
Athletics.    By  H.  H.  Griffin. 
Riding.     By   W.  A.   Kerr,    V.C. 

Double  vol.    2s. 

Ladles' Riding.  By  W.A.Kbrr,V.C. 

Boxing.  By  B.  G.  Allanson-Winn. 

With  Prefatory  Note  by  Bat  Mullins. 


Fencing.    By  H.  A.  Colmore  Dunn. 
Cycling.  By  H,  H.  Griffin,  L.A.C. , 

N.C.U.,  O.T.C.  With  a  Chapter  for 
Ladies,  by  Miss  Ag2?es  Wood.  Double 
vol.     2s. 

Wrestling.     By  Walter  Ark- 

strong.     New  Edition. 

Broadsword     and     Singlestick. 

By  R.  G.  AiLANSON-WiNN  and  C.  Phil- 
lipps-Wollet. 

Gymnastics.     By  A.  F.   Jenkin. 

Double  vol.  2s. 

Gymnastic  Competition  and  Dis- 
play Ezercises.  Compiled  by 
F.  Grap. 

Indian  Clubs.  By  G.  T.  B.  Cob- 
bett and  A.  F.  Jenkin. 

Diunb -bells.    By  F.  Graf. 

Football  —  Rugby  Game.  By 
Harry  Vassall, 

Football — ^Association  Game.  By 

C.  W.  Alcock.    Revised  Edition. 
Hockey.      By    F.    S.    Creswell. 

New  Edition. 

Skating.  By  Douglas  Adams. 
With  a  Chapter  for  Ladies,  by  Miss  L. 
Cheetham,  and  a  Chapter  on  Speed 
Skating,  by  a  Fen  Skater.   Dbl.  vol.  28. 

Baseball.    By  Newton  Crane. 
Rounders,  Fleldball,  Bowls, 

Quoits,   Curling,  Skittles,   &o. 

By  J.  M.  Walker  and  C.  C.  Mott. 
Dancing.      By   Edward   Soott. 

Double  vol.    2s. 


THE  CLUB  SERIES  OF  CARD  AND  TABLE  GAMES. 

'  No  well-regulated  club  or  country  house  should  be  without  this  useful  series  of  books. 
Small  8vo.  cloth,  Illustrated.     Price  Is.  each.  Qlole. 


Bridge.    By 'Templar.' 
Whist.    By  Dr.  Wm.  Pole,  F.R.S. 
Solo  Whist.  By  Robert  F.  Green. 
BiUiards.     By  Major-Gen.  A.  W. 

Dratson,  P.R.A.S.     With  a  Preface 

by  W.  J.  Peall. 
Hints    on    Billiards.      By  J.  P. 

Buchanan.    Double  vol.    2s. 
Chess.    By  Robert  F.  Green. 
The  Two-Move  Chess  Problem. 

By  B.  Q.  Laws. 
Chess  Openings.  By  I.  Gunsbbbg. 

Draughts  and  Backgammon. 

By  'Berkeiev.' 

Reversl  and  Go  Bang. 

By  '  Berkeley.' 


Dominoes  and  Solitaire. 

By  •  Berkeley.' 
B^zique  and  Cribbage. 

By  •  Berkeley.' 

^oart6  and  Euchre. 

By  •  Berkeley.' 
Piquet  and  BubioonPiquet. 

By  '  Berkeley.' 
Skat.     By  Louis  Diehl. 

***  A  Skat  Scoring-book.    Is. 

Round  Games,  including  Poker, 
Napoleon,  Loo,  Vingt-et-un,  &c.  By 
Bazter-Wkay. 

Parlour  and  Playground  Games. 

By  MrK.  Laurenok  Qommb. 


BELL'S   CATHEDRAL   SERIES. 

Profusely  Illustrated^  cloth,  crown  Svo.    is.  6d.  net  each, 

ENGLISH  CATHEDRALS.  An  Itinerary  and  Description.  Compiled  by  James  G. 
Gilchrist,  A.M.,  M.D.  Revised  and  edited  with  an  Introduction  on  Cathedral 
Architecture  by  the  Rev.  T.  Perkins,  INI. A.,  F.R.A.S. 

BRISTOL.     By  H.  J.  L.  J.  Masse,  M.A. 

CANTERBURY.     By  Hartley  Withers.     5th  Edition. 

CARLISLE.     ByC.  King  Eley. 

CHESTER.     By  Charles  Hiatt.     3rd  Edition. 

CHICHESTER.     By  H.  C.  Corlette,  A. R.I. B. A.     2nd  Edition. 

DURHAM.     By  J.  E.  Bygate,  A.R.C.A.    3rd  Edition. 

ELY.     By  Rev.  W.  D.  Sweeting,  M.A.     2nd  Edition. 

EXETER.     By  Percy  Addleshaw,  B.A.     2nd  Edition,  revised. 

GLOUCESTER.     By  H.  J.  L.  J.  Masse,  M.A.     3rd  Edition. 

HEREFORD.    By  A.  Hugh  Fisher,  A.R.E.    2nd  Edition,  revised. 

LICHFIELD.     By  A.  B.  Clifton.     2nd  Edition. 

LINCOLN.     By  A.  F.  Kendrick,  B.A.     3rd  Edition. 

MANCHESTER.     By  Rev.  T.  Perkins,  M.A. 

NORWICH.     By  C.  H.  B.  Quennell.     2nd  Edition. 

OXFORD.     By  Rev.  Percy  Dearmer,  M.A.     2nd  Edition,  revised. 

PETERBOROUGH.     By  Rev.  W.  D,  Sweeting.     2nd  Edition,  revised. 

RIPON.     By  Cecil  Hallett,  B.A. 

ROCHESTER.     By  G.  H.  Palmer,  B.A.     2nd  Edition,  revised. 

ST.  ALBANS.     By  Rev.  T.  Perkins,  M.A. 

ST.  ASAPH.     By  P.  B.  Ironside  Bax. 

ST.  DAVID'S.     By  Philip  Robson,  A.R.I. B.A. 

ST.  PATRICK'S,  DUBLIN.    By  Rev.  J.  H.  Bernard,  M.A.,  D.D.    2nd  Edii.ion. 

ST.  PAUL'S.     By  Rev.  Arthur  Dimock,  M.A.     3rd  Edition,  revised. 

ST,  SAVIOUR'S,  SOUTHWARK.     By  George  Worley. 

SALISBURY.     By  Gleeson  White.     3rd  Edition,  revised. 

SOUTHWELL.     By  Rev.  Arthur  Dimock,  M.A.     2nd  Edition,  revised. 

WELLS.     By  Rev.  Percy  Dearmer,  M.A.     3rd  Edition. 

WINCHESTER.     By  P.  W.  Sergeant.    3rd  Edition. 

WORCESTER.     By  E.  F.  Strange.     2nd  Edition. 

YORK.     By  A.  Clutton-Brock,  M.A.     3rd  Edition. 

Uniform  -with  above  Series.     JVow  ready,     is.  td.  net  each. 
ST.    MARTIN'S    CHURCH,    CANTERBURY.      By  the    Rev.   Canon    Routledge, 

M.A.,  F.S.A. 
BEVERLEY  MINSTER.      By  Charles  Hiatt. 
WIMBORNE    MINSTER     and    CHRISTCHURCH     PRIORY.       By    the    Rev.   T. 

Perkins,  M.A. 
TEWKESBURY  ABBEY  AND  DEERHURST  PRIORY.    By  H.  J.  L.  J.  Mass^,  M.A. 
BATH  ABBEY,  MALMESBURY  ABBEY,  and  BRADFORD-ON-AVON  CHURCH. 

By  Rev.  T.  Perkins,  M.A. 
WESTMINSTER  ABBEY.    By  Charles  Hiatt. 
STRATFORD-ON-AVON  CHURCH.     By  Harold  Baker. 


BELL'5    HANDBOOKS    TO    CONTINENTAL    CHURCHES. 

Profusely  Illustrated.     Crown  Svo,  cloth ^  2s.  6d.  net  each. 
AMIENS      By  the  Rev.  T.  Perkins,  M.A. 
BAYEUX.     By  the  Rev.  R.  S.  Mylne. 

CHARTRES  :  The  Cathedral  and  Other  Churches.    By  H.  J.  L.  J.  Mass^,  M.A. 
MONT  ST.  MICHEL.     By  H.  J.  L.  J.  Masse,  M.A. 
PARIS  (NOTRE-DAME).     By  Charles  Hiatt. 
ROUEN  :  The  Cathedral  and  Other  Churches.  By  the  Rev.  T.  Perkins,  M.A. 


The  Best  Practical  Working  Dictionary  of  the 
Eng^lish  Language. 

WEBSTER'S 

INTERNATIONAL 

DICTIONARY. 

2348  PAGES.       5000  ILLUSTRATIONS. 

NEW  EDITION,  REVISED  THROUGHOUT  WITH  A 
NEW  SUPPLEMENT  OF  25,000  ADDITIONAL 
WORDS  AND  PHRASES.      ^    ^ 

The  Appendices  comprise  a  Pronouncing  Gazetteer  of  the  World, 
Vocabularies  of  Scripture,  Greek,  Latin,  and  English  Proper  Names, 
a  Dictionary  of  the  Noted  Names  of  Fiction,  a  Brief  History  of  the 
English  Language,  a  Dictionary  of  Foreign  Quotations,  Words,  Phrases, 
Proverbs,  &c.,  a  Biographical  Dictionary  with  10,000  names,  &c.,  &c. 


Dr.  MURRAY,  Editor  of  the  '  Oxford  English  Dictionary^  says  :—'  In  this  its 
latest  form,  and  with  its  large  Supplement  and  numerous  appendices,  it  is  a  wonderful 
volume,  which  well  maintains  its  ground  against  all  rivals  on  its  own  lines.  The  '  defini- 
tions,' or  more  properly,  'explanations  of  meaning'  in  '  Webster'  have  always  struck  me 
as  particularly  terse  and  well-put ;  and  it  is  hard  to  see  how  anything  better  could  ht, 
done  within  the  limits.' 

Professor  JOSEPH  "WRIGHT,  M.A.,  Ph.D.,  D.C.t.,  LL.D.,  Editor  oj 
the  '  English  Dialect  Dictionary,'  says  : — '  The  new  edition  of  "Webster's  International 
Dictionary  "  is  undoubtedly  the  most  useful  and  reliable  work  of  its  kind  in  any  country. 
No  one  who  has  not  examined  the  work  carefully  would  believe  that  such  a  vast  amount 
of  lexicographical  information  could  possiblj'  be  found  within  so  small  a  compass.' 

Professor  A.  H.  SATCE,  LL.D.,  D.D.,  says:— 'It  is  indeed  a  marvellous 
work  ;  it  is  difficult  to  conceive  of  a  Dictionary  more  exhaustive  and  complete.  Every- 
thing is  in  it — not  only  what  we  might  expect  to  find  in  such  a  work,  but  also  what  few 
of  us  would  ever  have  thought  of  looking  for.' 

Rev.  JOSEPH  WOOD,  D.D.,  Head  Master  0/  Harrow,  says  :— '  I  have  always 
thought  very  highly  of  its  merits.  Indeed,  I  consider  it  to  be  far  the  most  accurate 
English  Dictionary  in  existence,  and  much  more  reliable  than  the  "  Century."  For 
daily  and  hourly  reference,  "  Webster  "  seems  to  me  unrivalled." 

Prospectuses y  with  Prices  and  Specimen  Pages,  on  AppHcation. 


LONDON  :  GEORGE  BELL  ^   SONS,  YORK  HOUSE. 
PORTUGAL  STREET,  W.C. 
40,000.  S.  &  S.  1.06. 


DATE  DUE 


MAY  3 

0   lOOfi 

nf) 

R     jAOC 

JUiN 

nrr  -  4  1 

lOR 

Utl         *r    1 

?yo 

lAM    ? 

0  2000 

ocia-i 

200T 

GAYLORD 

BOSTON  COLLEGE 


3  9031   01638801   9 


mmm 


DA 

933.3 

.0515 


GIRALDUS  CAMBRMSIS. 


Bapst  Library 

Boston  College 
Chestnut  Hill,  Mass.  02167 


