HOW 

THINGS 

WORK 


I 


&  vil^>  ';;■"   ■     ■    _.  L 


HOW 

THING! 
WORK 


i 


ILLUSTRATIONS  RESEARCHED  BY 
ROGER  JEAN  SEGALAT 


©  Bibliographisches  Institut 
and  George  Allen  &  Unwin  Ltd.,  English  Edition 

©  Bibliographisches  Institut 
and  Simon  +  Schuster  Inc.,  American  Edition 

Edito-Service  SA.,  Geneva,  Publishers 


INTRODUCTION 

BY  THE  RIGHT  HON.  THE  LORD  RITCHIE-CALDER 

Kalinga  Prize  winner  for  promoting 

the  common  understanding  of  science 

"The  world  will  never  starve  for  want  of  wonders  but 
only  for  the  want  of  wonder. . ."— G.  K.  Chesterton 


So  much  has  happened  since  the  end  of  World  War  II— the  Atomic  Age, 
the  Computer  Age  and  the  Space  Age,  epochs  concentrated  into  a  brief 
lifetime— that  wonder  is  liable  to  become  numbed  and  wonders  taken  for 
granted.  We  flick  a  switch,  press  a  button,  or  put  a  coin  in  the  slot  and 
expect  things  to  happen ...  without  asking  "How?"  That  is  sad,  because 
as  Sir  Edward  Appleton,  the  Nobel  Prize-winning  scientist,  said,  "It  is 
such  fun  finding  out." 

And  we  cannot  all  be  like  my  Arctic  guide,  Luke  the  Inquisitive  Es- 
kimo, who  had  a  direct  way  of  finding  out.  If  he  wanted  to  know  how 
something  worked— a  wristwatch,  for  instance— he  would  just  take  it  to 
pieces  and  memorize  the  mechanism.  I  found  this  childlike  curiosity 
amusing  until,  when  we  were  holed  up  in  an  igloo  by  a  blizzard,  I  woke 
up  one  morning  to  find  him  dismantling  my  tape  recorder. 

Or  one  can  do  what  I  have  done  most  of  my  life  as  a  science  writer: 
go  to  the  chap  who  discovered  something  and  ask  him,  "How  does  it 
work?"  That  is  how,  over  the  years,  I  learned  about  a  lot  of  things  in 
this  book. 

In  going  through  the  first  volume  of  The  Way  Things  Work,  however, 
I  was  pleased  (and  sometimes  professionally  mortified)  to  find  explana- 
tions of  things  which  had  slipped  into  the  commonplace  of  my  experience 
and  about  which  I  had  never  asked  "How?"  I  was  given  one  of  the  first 
practical  ball-point  pens  in  1938  but  forgot— all  this  time— to  ask  just 
exactly  how  it  worked.  It  is  simple,  like  most  good  ideas.  For  years  I 
have  been  using  a  Polaroid  camera.  To  photograph  and  develop  imme- 
diately is  like  practicing  a  conjuring  trick;  it  fascinates  children  and 
grownups  alike;  and  sometimes  it  spoils  the  relish  of  a  trick  when  one 
knows  exactly  how  it  is  done.  So  I  went  on  conjuring  without  asking!  Now 
I  know  that  the  "How"  is  just  as  fascinating  as  the  "Hey  presto!" 

Away  back  in  140  a.d.,  Hero  of  Alexandria  invented  the  first  coin-in- 
slot  vending  machine  for  dispensing  holy  water.  It  is  interesting  to  have 


it  brought  up  to  date  in  the  modern  mechanisms  of  the  automats  and  the 
refined  tortures  of  the  jukebox.  When  they  were  first  invented,  I  wrote 
about  transistors,  lasers,  the  magnetron,  xerography,  jet  engines,  hover- 
craft and  computers,  and  it  is  nice  to  see  them,  grown-up,  as  it  were,  in 
the  family  album. 

The  bits  and  pieces  of  technology,  however,  are  not  enough.  We  would 
still  be  mystified,  left  with  unanswered  questions,  if  we  did  not  see  how 
they  fitted  into  the  patterns  and  the  systems.  If  this  and  its  preceding  vol- 
ume were  just  expanded  glossaries  of  gadgets,  they  might  suffice  for  a 
quiz  game  of  "Ask  me  another."  But  this  encyclopedia  is  designed  to  be 
more  than  that— it  deals  with  principles  and  is  grouped  in  subjects  so  that 
the  picture  of  technology  emerges  and  embraces  the  items. 

I  do  not  know  who  thought  of  The  Way  Things  Work,  nor  how  it  was 
compiled,  but  I  know  it  is  a  valuable  piece  of  communication  (to  use  an 
overworked  word)  to  the  general  public  and,  speaking  professionally,  a 
useful  crib  for  science  writers  and  for  scientists  and  technologists  as  well. 
It  is  simple  without  being  condescending. 


FOREWORD 


This  volume  is  not  a  reference  book  in  the  ordinary  sense.  It  has  been  de- 
signed, instead,  to  give  the  layman  an  understanding  of  how  things  work,  from 
the  simplest  mechanical  functions  of  modern  life  to  the  most  basic  scientific 
principles  and  complex  industrial  processes  that  affect  our  well-being.  The 
result  is,  we  believe,  a  unique  book— a  graphic  and  original  introduction  to 
the  modern  world  of  technology. 

When  it  was  originally  published,  in  Germany,  this  book  was  called  Wie 
funktioniert  das?  (How  Does  It  Work?).  That  question  remains  the  key  to 
the  purpose  and  layout  of  the  book.  Here  you  will  find  the  answer  to  the 
question  posed  by  the  inquisitive  child  who  wants  to  know  how  a  vacuum 
cleaner  or  a  refrigerator  works,  or  by  you  yourself,  puzzled  by  the  complexi- 
ties of  lasers  or  the  secrets  of  Polaroid  color  photography.  A  page  of  descrip- 
tive text  faces  the  coloured  drawing  to  which  it  refers.  Certain  common 
principles  have  prompted  the  grouping  on  successive  pages  of  related  ma- 
chines in  which  these  principles  are  applied.  Thus,  for  example,  an  entry  on 
Light  introduces  a  group  of  entries  running  in  sequence  from  lenses  and 
telescopes  to  cameras  and  colour  television,  etc.  The  various  subjects  are 
shown  in  the  list  of  contents,  overleaf,  and  may  prove  useful  for  cross- 
reference  purposes.  In  addition,  there  is  a  full  index  at  the  end  of  the  book, 
in  which  both  machines  and  topics  are  listed  alphabetically. 

The  Publishers 


CONTENTS 


Distillation 14 

Centrifuge 16 

Fire  Extinguishers 20 

Temperature  Measuring 

Instruments 22 

Dry  Ice 24 

Thermostat 26 

Presses 28 

Pumps 30 

Compressors  (Piston 

Compressors) 32 

Petroleum 34 

Petroleum  Distillation 36 

Natural  Gas 40 

Town  Gas 42 

Natural  Petrol 46 

Synthetic  Petrol 48 

Steam  Boilers 50 

Steam  Engine 52 

Steam  Turbines 54 

Gas  Turbines 56 

Water  Turbines  (Pelton)    ....  60 

Water  Turbines  (Francis,  Kaplan)  62 

Fuel  Cell 66 

Nuclear  Reactor 68 

Electrostatics  I 70 

Electrostatics  II     72 

Electrodynamics 74 

Electric  Generator  (Dynamo)  .  .  78 
Battery,  Accumulator  (Direct 

Current) 80 

Alternating  Current,  Three-phase 

Current,  Electromagnetic 

Waves 82 

Alternating  Current,  Tree-phase 

Current,  Electromagnetic 

Waves:  Transmitters, 

Receivers 88 

Thermionic  Tube 90 

Ultra-high  Frequency  Vibrations  92 

Maser,  Laser 94 

Rectifier 96 

Semiconductors 98 

Radio  Receiver 100 

Loudspeaker 104 


Overhead  Transmission  Lines  .    .  106 

Earthing  (Grounding) 108 

Transformer 110 

Relay 112 

Switch 114 

Short-circuit  (Fuse) 116 

Electric  Arc,  Arc  Lamp     ....  118 

Photo-electric  Cells 120 

Fluorescent  Lamp 1 22 

X-rays 124 

Cyclotrons  and  Similar  Devices    .  126 

Telecommunication 128 

Telephones  and  Telephone 

Exchanges 130 

Telegraphy,  Teletypewriter      .    .  134 

Radar      136 

Photomultiplier 140 

Magic  Eye       142 

Black-and-white  Television  ...  144 

Television  Camera  Tubes  .    ...  146 

Television  Picture  Tube    ....  148 

Image  Converter  Tube 1 50 

Eidophor  System 152 

Stroboscopic  Effects 1 54 

Reflection,  Refraction  and 

Diffraction  of  Light 1 56 

Lenses 158 

Mirrors 160 

Spectacles  (Eyeglasses) 162 

Magnifying  Glass  and 

Microscope 164 

Electron  Microscope 166 

Telescopes 170 

Telescopes:  Prismatic  Binoculars  174 

Cameras:  General  Introduction    .  176 

Photographic  Lenses 178 

Focal  Distance  and  Size  of  Image  180 

Interchangeable  Lenses     ....  1 82 

Diaphragm  Shutters      184 

Focal  Plane  Shutters 1 86 

Speed  of  a  Camera  Lens    ....  188 

Automatic  Exposure  Control  190 

Depth  of  Field  (Depth  of  Focus)  1 92 

Exposure  Meter 194 

Colour  Printing 196 


Colour  Television 198 

Colour  Photography 202 

Polaroid-Land  Colorfilm  ....  204 

Flash  Bulbs  and  Flash  Guns .    .    .  208 

Electronic  Flash 210 

Range  Finder 212 

Cine  Camera  (Motion  Picture 

Camera) 214 

Cine  Projector 216 

Wide  Screen  Motion  Pictures: 

CinemaScope 218 

Todd-AO  and  Cinerama       .    .  220 

Projectors:  Episcope  and  Diascope  222 

Electrophotography 224 

Black-and-white  Film 226 

Noise,  Sound  Intensity 228 

Resonance,  Echo 232 

Doppler  Effect 234 

Ultrasonics 236 

Organ  Pipes 240 

Scales  and  Weighing  Machines .    .  242 

Clocks  and  Watches 244 

Quartz  Clock 246 

Atomic  Clock 250 

Barometer 252 

Electricity  Meters  (Energy  Meters)  254 

Gas  Meters 258 

Water  Meters 260 

Thermal  Insulation 262 

Block  and  Tackle 264 

Pneumatic  Hammer 266 

Cranes 268 

Lightning  Conductor 270 

Lift  (Elevator) 272 

Hot-water  Heating  (Gravity 

Systems) 274 

Hot-water  Heating  (Pumped 

Circulation  Systems)    ....  276 


Steam  Heating 278 

Gas  Heating 280 

Heat  Pump 282 

Valves,  Cocks  and  Taps     ....  284 

Door  Locks 286 

Cylinder  Lock 288 

Electric  Bell 290 

Door-closer 292 

Water  Closet  (Toilet) 294 

Air  Conditioning 296 

Fans,  Blowers  and  Centrifugal 

Compressors 298 

Room  Heating  Stove 300 

Gas-fired  Water  Heater  (Geyser)  302 
Thermal  Electric  Domestic 
Appliances  (Hot  Plate, 

Immersion  Heater,  Toaster)    .  304 

Refrigerators 310 

Vacuum  Cleaner 312 

Sewing  Machine 314 

Incandescent  Lamp 316 

Flat-iron 318 

Match 320 

Mechanical  and  Electric 

Typewriters 322 

Typing-head  System  Type- 
writers-IBM 72    324 

Cash  Register 326 

Calculating  Machine 328 

Hollerith  Punched-card  System    .  332 

Data  Processing:  Principles  .    .    .  334 

Programme-controlled 

Electronic  Computer    ....  340 

Programme  for  a  Computer  342 

Translation  Programme    .    .    .  344 

Automatic  Letter  Sorting     .    .    .  346 

Index 349 


HOW  THINGS  WORK 


DISTILLATION 

When  a  liquid  is  heated,  the  molecules  of  the  liquid  begin  to  perform  increasingly 
violent  movements.  They  collide  with  other  molecules  which  are  not  yet  in  violent 
motion,  and  in  the  end  some  of  the  molecules  attain  such  high  velocities  that  they 
burst  through  the  surface  film  of  the  liquid  (Fig.  1).  They  thus  escape  from  the  liquid 
as  a  gas.  When  they  encounter  the  molecules  of  a  colder  medium,  these  escaped 
molecules  part  with  some  of  their  kinetic  energy,  coalesce,  and  finally  form  water 
droplets.  This  process  can  be  observed  when  water  is  boiled  in  a  kettle :  the  water 
vapour,  or  steam,  which  emerges  from  the  kettle  condenses  against  the  kitchen 
windows.  Similarly,  water  which  is  evaporated  by  the  sun's  heat  will,  on  cooling 
when  it  rises  to  great  altitudes,  similarly  condense  to  tiny  droplets  (clouds)  which 
may  eventually  coalesce  into  larger  drops  that  fall  as  rain.  In  chemical  technology 
this  process  is  performed  in  a  distilling  apparatus  (Fig.  2)  which,  if  it  is  of  large  size, 
is  known  as  a  distilling  column  (Fig.  3).  In  this  way  distillation  is  used  for  separating 
evaporable  substances  from  non-evaporable  ones,  or  separating  substances  which 
evaporate  easily  from  others  which  evaporate  less  easily.  Distillation  is  therefore  a 
process  for  the  separation  of  substances  according  to  their  volatility.  The  portion 
which  evaporates  when  heat  is  applied  and  which  is  subsequently  condensed  by 
cooling  it  in  coolers  is  called  the  distillate;  the  portion  which  does  not  evaporate 
is  called  the  distillation  residue.  Distillation  is  one  of  the  most  important  methods 
of  purifying  volatile  substances  and  has  been  practised  for  thousands  of  years. 
High-efficiency  distillation  columns  used  in  the  chemical  industry  may  be  over 
300  ft.  high  and  as  much  as  16  ft.  thick.  They  are  employed  more  particularly  in 
the  petroleum  industry  for  the  production  of  power  gases,  fuels,  lubricating  oils, 
etc.,  but  distillation  is,  for  example,  also  an  essential  process  in  the  manufacture  of 
alcohol. 

However,  distillation  can  be  used  only  for  the  separation  of  substances  whose 
respective  boiling  points  differ  at  least  0-5  -  1°  C,  unless  additivies  can  be  used  to 
facilitate  the  process  in  special  cases  (extractive  distillation).  According  to  Raoult's 
Law,  a  proportion  of  the  substance  with  the  higher  boiling  point  will— depending 
on  its  quantity  and  vapour  pressure— be  intermingled  with  the  vapour  of  the  sub- 
stance with  the  lower  boiling  point,  so  that  the  latter  substance  will  always  to  a 
greater  or  less  extent  be  contaminated  by  the  higher-boiling  substance.  By  returning 
a  portion  of  the  distillate  of  the  lower-boiling  substance  to  the  head  of  the  column, 
however,  the  separation  efficiency  can  be  improved,  as  for  example  in  rectifying 
installations  (Fig.  3). 

Every  distilling  plant  comprises  a  source  of  heat  and  an  evaporator  (continuous- 
flow  heater,  still,  distilling  flask,  retort).  For  the  separation  of  more  volatile  mixtures 
a  fractionating  unit  is  attached  to  the  evaporator,  so  that  a  distillation  equilibrium 
is  established  depending  upon  the  qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  of  the 
mixture  and  the  effect  upon  the  temperature  and  pressure.  Finally,  the  distillate 
is  passed  to  a  cooler,  where  it  is  cooled,  and  is  then  wholly  or  partially  removed. 
In  difficult  separation  processes  a  proportion  of  the  distillate  (depending  upon  the 
nature  of  the  problem  and  the  separation  efficiency  of  the  column)  is  returned  to  the 
column.  Various  forms  of  distillation  are  distinguished:  one-way,  vacuum,  mole- 
cular, pressure  and  dry  distillation.  In  the  last-mentioned  process  a  non-volatile 
substance,  such  as  wood,  is  split  up  into  distillable  components  by  the  application 
of  heat. 


14 


vapour 


liquid  is  heated  .  _J 


/// 


rapidly  moving  liquid  molecules 
penetrate  the  surface  film 


i 


cold  wall 
condensation 


U* 


distillate 


Fig.   1      PROCESSES  OCCURRING  IN   DISTILLATION 


thermometer 


vapour  of 

lower-boiling 

substance 


cooling  watei 


condenser  IdistilTate  of  th 
ower-boiling 
bstance 


l»-    heated  water 
condensation 
mixture  inlet 


packing  _^ 


ixrure  inier  ^^* 


distillate 


cooling  water 
distillate 

steam  for  heating 
return  flow 


distillation  residue 
(higher-boiling  substance 


\      I  liquid  to  be  distilled 


heat  applied  here  Fig    3     CONTINUOUSLY-OPERATING  DISTILLING 

COLUMN  (RECTIFICATION) 
Fig.  2     MODERN  DISTILLING  APPARATUS 


15 


CENTRIFUGE 

A  centrifuge  is  an  apparatus  intended  mainly  tor  the  separation  of  heterogeneous 
mixtures  (liquid-solid,  e.g.,  sugar  crystals  in  molasses)  and  liquid  mixtures  (e.g., 
liquids  of  different  specific  gravity  which  are  not  soluble  in  one  another,  such  as 
fat  in  milk). 

The  physical  principle  on  which  the  functioning  of  the  centrifuge  is  based  can  be 
explained  by  first  considering  what  happens  when  grains  of  sand  suspended  in 
water  settle  to  the  bottom.  When  sand  is  stirred  up  in  a  jar  containing  water,  the 
force  of  gravity  will  exercise  a  more  powerful  attraction  on  each  individual  sand 
grain  than  on  the  water  particles  because  a  grain  of  sand  has  a  greater  mass  than 
the  surrounding  water  particles.  The  sand  grains  are  therefore  pulled  down  to  the 
bottom  of  the  jar.  This  is  called  sedimentation.  After  a  time  the  system  comes  to 
rest;  we  then  see  that  two  layers  have  formed  in  the  jar:  on  the  bottom  is  the  settled 
sand,  and  over  this  is  the  water.  A  similar  separation  can  also  be  produced  in  a 
centrifuge.  Indeed,  it  can  be  speeded  up  by  subjecting  the  grains  of  sand  (or  other 
particles  of  matter  suspended  in  the  liquid)  to  a  centrifugal  force  instead  of  gravita- 
tional force.  Centrifugal  forces  come  into  play  when  a  drum  containing  the  mixture 
to  be  separated  is  rotated  at  high  speed  about  its  longitudinal  axis.  The  magnitude 
of  the  centrifugal  force,  which  is  directed  outward  from  the  centre  of  rotation,  is 
determined  mainly  by  the  speed  of  rotation  of  the  drum— for  the  same  reason 
that  the  iron  ball  which  is  being  swung  round  and  round  (Fig.  2)  will  (for  a  given 
angle  of  elevation)  fly  farther,  when  it  is  released,  in  proportion  as  the  athlete  spins 
round  faster. 

If  the  rotating  drum  is  unperforated,  the  components  of  the  mixture  to  be  separated 
will,  under  the  action  of  the  centrifugal  force,  be  deposited  layerwise— according  to 
the  size  of  the  particles  and  their  specific  gravity— against  the  wall  of  the  drum. 
The  materials  with  the  highest  specific  gravity  or  whose  particles  have  the  greatest 
mass  will,  generally  speaking,  be  sedimented  closest  to  the  wall  of  the  rotating  drum 
(Fig.  3).  The  separated  layers  can  be  removed  from  the  latter  through  stationary 
tubes  provided  for  the  purpose. 

Another  type  of  centrifuge  (intended  more  particularly  for  the  continuous 
separation  of  the  components  of  a  liquid  emulsion)  is  shown  in  Fig.  4a.  The  mixture 
is  fed  continuously  through  a  spout  into  the  rotating  drum,  which  is  equipped 
internally  with  conical  plates  arranged  one  above  the  other.  The  lighter  liquid 
flows  upwards  along  the  backs  of  the  plates  and  emerges  from  the  centrifuge.  The 
heavier  liquid  is  flung  to  the  periphery  of  the  centrifuging  drum,  and  the  conically 
shaped  casing  of  the  drum  deflects  it  upwards,  where  it  emerges  through  another 
outlet  (Fig.  4b). 

In  centrifuges  operating  on  the  filter  principle  the  drum  is  perforated  and  may  be 
covered  with  filter  cloth.  When  the  drum  rotates,  the  solid  particles  are  retained  at 
the  inner  wall  of  the  drum,  whereas  the  liquid  goes  through  the  perforations  and  is 
thus  hurled  out  of  the  drum  and  removed  from  the  casing  of  the  centrifuge  (the  well- 
known  domestic  spin  dryer  operates  in  this  way).  Fig.  5  shows  an  industrial  centri- 
fuge of  this  kind.  Such  a  machine  is  usually  run  intermittently,  i.e.,  it  is  filled  with 
the  mixture  to  be  centrifuged;  on  completion  of  the  treatment,  the  drum  is  stopped 
and  the  sedimented  material  is  removed  from  the  wall.  In  the  continuous-action 
centrifuge  for  the  separation  of  a  solid  from  a  liquid,  the  drum  is  provided  internally 
with  stationary  scrapers  which  continuously  remove  the  solid  material. 

As  a  rule,  the  drum  is  driven  by  an  electric  motor  through  a  gear  unit  (worm 
gear,  bevel  gear)  or  belt  which  rotates  the  shaft  on  which  the  drum  is  mounted.  At 
the  point  where  this  shaft  enters  the  fixed  casing  of  the  machine  a  stuffing  box 
(which  forms  a  seal)  must  be  provided. 


16 


Fig.   1      SEDIMENTATION  OF  A  HEAVY  SOLID  IN  A  LIQUID 


Fig  4b 

CENTRIFUGING  DRUM  WITH   PLATES 
(detail  of  Fig.  4a) 


Fig.   5     FILTER  DRUM  CENTRIFUGE 


17 


Centrifuge  used  for  the  training  of  astronauts,  Houston,  Texas 

Photo  Car  tier-Bresson,  Magnum 


.  •-  - 


a       f 

k  If 

r  wm 

FIRE   EXTINGUISHERS 

Any  ordinary  combustion  process  is  usually  initiated  by  decomposition  of  the 
combustible  material  as  a  result  of  heating,  which  is  usually  confined  to  a  small 
local  area  and  which  may  be  due  to  friction,  irradiation,  chemical  oxidation,  action 
or  sparks  or  flames.  This  decomposition  produces  combustible  gases  which  ignite 
because  they  react  violently  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air.  The  reaction  produces  heat 
which  causes  further  decomposition  of  the  material  and  thus  produces  more  gas 
Eventually  the  temperature  rises  so  high  that  the  residue  from  the  initial  decomposi- 
tion due  to  heat  (namely,  the  carbon,  which  at  first  remains  unaffected  by  the  heat) 
also  begins  to  burn,  producing  a  large  amount  of  heat  in  the  process.  This  continu- 
ously liberated  heat  keeps  the  combustion  process  going  until  the  combustible 
material  or  the  oxygen  needed  to  sustain  the  process,  has  been  consumed  Fire 
extinguishing  agents  must  therefore  either  cool  the  combustible  material  or  thev 
mus  cover  this  material  with  a  firmly  adhering  non-inflammable  coating  or  thev 
must  ranfy  or  displace  the  oxygen  from  the  focus  of  the  outbreak.  As  there  are  for 
example,  combustible  substances  which  themselves  contain  the  oxygen  necessarv 
to  sustain  combustion,  and  as  it  is  of  considerable  importance -from  the  point  of 
view  of  fire-fighting-  whether  the  burning  substance  is  liquid  or  solid,  whether  it  is 
miscible  with  water  or  whether  it  is  lighter  or  heavier  than  the  fire  extinguishing 

KgMng  meUtho0dsV10USly  *  ^^  ^  °f  extinguish,ng  agents  and  different 

M,Trh/c.^°ni!etrachw0ridue  exti"guisher  (Fig-  0  contains  anything  from  0.5  to 
6  litres'  of  th.s  chemical  (with  certam  additives),  which  is  forced  out  of  the  extinguisher 
by  the  gas  pressure  from  a  cylinder  of  liquefied  carbon  dioxide.  Carbon  tetrachloride 
vaporises  completely  at  76.5°  C,  producing  a  heavy  incombustible  vapour   This 
kind  of  extinguisher  is  more  particularly  suitable  for  putting  out  fires  in  machinery 
and  electrical  installations.  The  carbon  dioxide  extinguisher  (Fig.  2)  contains  5  to 
6  litres  of  carbon  dioxide  under  high  pressure.  It  is  expanded  to  atmospheric  pressure 
n  the    snow  tube  ,  where  the  greater  part  rapidly  vaporises  and,  in  doing  so  ex- 
abontToo/r011  hfi  fr°m^he  i^^ings  [hat  therest  of  the  carbo^dioxfde 
nnTth^P  l^Z  ed  t0uS°lld,  CarbJ0n  dl0xide  snow  <-79°  C)- Thls  "snow"  is  sprayed 
mZ  th        vy  thC  Carb°n  dl°^lde  gas  and  causes  a  lowenng  of  the  temperature  to 
below  the  igni  ion  point ;  it  also  displaces  oxygen.  This  is  an  all-purpose  extinguisher 
The  water  type  fire  extinguisher  (Fig.  3)  contains  6  to  12  litres  of  water  con- 
taining dissolved  sodium  bicarbonate.  When  the  pin  is  struck,  it  shatters  a  flask  of 
concentrated  sulphuric  acid  inside  the  extinguisher.  The  acid  reacts  with  the  sodium 
bicarbonate  whereby  a  large  quantity  of  carbon  dioxide  is  evolved  which  forces  the 
water  at  high  pressure  out  of  the  discharge  pipe.  Because  of  its  high  heat  of  evapora- 
tion, water  exerts  a  powerful  cooling  action;  besides,  the  water  vapour  displaces 
oxygen.  Water  is  useless  and,  indeed,  dangerous  as  an  extinguishing  agent  for 
fighting  a  fire  in  electrical  installations  or  when  inflammable  solvents  catch  fire 

The  dry  chemical  extinguisher  (Fig.  4)  contains  4  to  12  kg  of  sodium  bicarbonate 
which  is  hurled  into  the  blaze  by  the  gas  pressure  developed  by  liquefied  carbon 
dioxide  or  nitrogen.  In  the  fire  the  sodium  bicarbonate  is  decomposed  into  soda 
(which  covers  the  combustible  material  with  an  air-excluding  crust)  and  into  water 
vapour  and  carbon  dioxide  (which  displaces  the  oxygen  and  therefore  smothers  the 
fire).  The  application  of  this  type  of  extinguisher  will  depend  upon  the  nature  and 
place  of  the  fire  (secondary  damage).  In  the  larger  foam  type  fire  extinguishers 
(Fig.  5)  an  air-  or  nitrogen-filled  foam  is  produced.  The  foaming  agent  may  for 
example,  consist  of  a  decomposed  protein  substance  (such  as  horn  waste).  The  foam 
is  stabilised  by  the  admixture  of  urea,  plastics,  etc.  It  exercises  a  smothering  and 
cooling  action  on  the  fire.  Foam  extinguishers  can  be  used  for  any  fire-fighting 
purpose,  other  than  for  putting  out  fires  in  machinery  and  electrical  equipment 


! .  One  litre  equivalent  to  1 .0567  liquid  quarts. 


20 


\\\  \ 


V  A  O  _ 


^\\y^Ij  :tt  \ 


compressed 
carbon  dioxide 


Fig.   1      CARBON  TETRACHLORIDE   EXTINGUISHER    Fig.  2     CARBON   DIOXIDE  EXTINGUISHER 


\ 

£        |0*\V\ 


$'%S*  \ 


Fig.  4     DRY  CHEMICAL  EXTINGUISHER 


sulphuric  acid 


Fig.  3     WATER-FILLED  EXTINGUISHER 


Fig.  5     FOAM  EXTINGUISHER 


21 


TEMPERATURE   MEASURING    INSTRUMENTS 

The  functioning  principle  of  an  ordinary  thermometer  is  based  on  the  property 
of  thermal  expansion  possessed  by  most  substances,  i.e.,  they  expand  when  heated 
and  contract  on  cooling. 

The  commonest  type  of  thermometer  is  the  mercury  thermometer.  It  consists 
of  a  capillary  tube  (a  tube  with  a  very  small  bore)  which  is  sealed  at  its  upper  end 
and  is  enlarged  into  a  spherical  or  cylindrical  bulb  at  its  lower  end.  This  bulb  is 
filled  with  mercury.  When  this  is  heated,  it  expands  and  rises  in  the  tube.  Because 
of  the  very  small  bore  of  the  latter,  even  a  small  increase  in  the  volume  of  the  mercury 
will  cause  it  to  rise  quite  appreciably.  The  thermometer  is  calibrated  between  two 
fixed  reference  points :  the  freezing  point  and  the  boiling  point  of  water  at  normal 
atmospheric  pressure  (760  mm  mercury;  see  page  252). The  difference  in  level  in 
the  mercury  column  between  these  two  points  is  divided  into  100  equal  parts,  each 
division  being  one  degree  on  the  centigrade  scale  (1°C).  On  the  Fahrenheit  scale 
the  difference  between  the  two  fixed  reference  points  is  divided  into  180  parts,  each 
division  being  one  degree  Fahrenheit  (1°  F),  the  freezing  point  and  boiling  point  of 
water  on  this  scale  being  32°  F  and  212°  F  respectively.  On  the  Reamur  scale  the 
corresponding  temperatures  are  0°  R  and  80°  C,  i.e.,  this  scale  is  divided  into  80 
degrees  between  freezing  and  boiling:  Mercury  is  not  suitable  for  thermometers  used 
for  measuring  very  low  temperatures,  as  mercury  itself  solidifies  at  —  39°  C.  Such 
thermometers  are  filled  with  coloured  alcohol,  which  has  a  substantially  lower 
freezing  point.  The  lowest  conceivable  temperature  is  the  absolute  zero,  correspond- 
ing to  —  273. 1 6°  C.  Absolute  temperature  is  measured  with  respect  to  the  absolute 
zero  in  degrees  Kelvin,  i.e.,  —273.16°  =  0°  K. 

Thermocouple:  If  the  ends  of  two  wires  of  dissimilar  metals  or  metal  alloys  (e.g., 
copper  and  constantan  or  copper  and  iron)  are  soldered  together  (Fig.  2a)  and 
if  one  soldered  junction  is  kept  at  a  constant  temperature,  while  the  other  junction 
is  heated,  a  thermo-electric  potential  difference  develops  between  the  two  junctions. 
This  potential  difference  (voltage)  is  greater  according  as  the  difference  in  tempera- 
ture between  the  junctions  is  greater  and  can  be  read  on  a  voltmeter  (Fig.  2b), 
which  can  be  calibrated  to  give  temperature  readings.  An  arrangement  of  this  kind 
is  called  a  thermocouple.  The  voltage  produced  by  a  single  thermocouple  is  very 
small  (a  few  millivolts).  To  obtain  a  higher  voltage,  a  number  of  thermocouples 
can  be  arranged  in  series  (Fig.  3),  with  alternate  hot  and  cold  junctions.  In  this 
way  a  so-called  thermopile,  or  thermo-electric  battery,  is  obtained. 

The  resistance  thermometer  (Fig.  5)  is  a  device  whose  operation  depends  upon 
the  variation  of  the  electrical  resistance  of  a  wire  with  temperature.  Most  metals 
become  more  resistant  to  the  passage  of  an  electric  current  as  they  become  hotter, 
the  increase  in  resistance  being  (within  certain  limits)  proportional  to  the  rise  in 
temperature.  The  resistance  used  in  the  thermometer  consists  of  a  platinum  or 
nickel  wire  and  is  so  designed  that  its  resistance  at  0°C  is  100  ohms.  The  varia- 
tions in  resistance  due  to  temperature  changes  are  measured  as  variations  in  the 
strength  of  a  current  by  means  of,  for  example,  a  crossed-coil  instrument,  whose 
pointer  deflects  by  an  amount  governed  by  the  ratio  of  the  currents  flowing  through 
the  two  coils.  The  current  in  one  of  the  coils  is  kept  constant  by  means  of  a  re- 
sistance which  is  unaffected  by  temperature ;  the  current  in  the  other  coil  is  deter- 
mined by  the  resistance  of  the  thermometer  wire  which  varies  with  the  temperature. 

A  bimetallic  thermometer  comprises  two  strips  of  dissimilar  metals  soldered  to- 
gether. These  metals  have  different  coefficients  of  thermal  expansion  and  therefore 
undergo  different  increases  in  length  on  heating.  Fig.  4  illustrates  the  functioning 
principle  of  a  temperature  measuring  device  embodying  a  bimetallic  spiral  whose 
curvature  varies  with  the  temperature  and  causes  a  pointer  to  deflect.  The  scale  is 
calibrated  by  establishing  the  positions  of  the  pointer  at  certain  known  temperatures 
and  then  marking  the  scale  so  that  each  division  corresponds,  say,  to  one  degree. 


22 


Fig.   1 
THERMOMETER 


soldered  junction 


mercury  expands  on  heating 

\m^-  hot  junction 


Fig.  2a     THERMOCOUPLE 


1 

/ 


.compensating  resistance 


copper  wire 


\ 


-cold  junction 


0 


Fig.  2b  voltmeter 

ELECTRICAL  CIRCUIT  FOR  TEMPERATURE 
MEASUREMENT  WITH  THERMOCOUPLES 


^auxiliary  voltage 

Fig.  5 

ELECTRICAL  CIRCUIT 

FOR   TEMPERATURE 

MEASUREMENT 

WITH  A  RESISTANCE 

THERMOMETER 


~i       ^  connection 
•irtr 

internal  wire 


Fig.  4a  BIMETALLIC  STRIP  CURVED  BY 
CHANGE   IN  TEMPERATURE 

Fig.  4b     BIMETALLIC  STRIP  AS  THERMOMETER 


I 

'. —  resistance  thermometer  with 
L      protective  tube  and  connecting  head 

■  —  measuring  rheostat 
(adjustable  resistance) 


J 


23 


DRY    ICE 

"Dry  ice"  is  a  name  sometimes  applied  to  compressed  carbon  dioxide  "snow", 
i.e..  solid  carbon  dioxide  with  a  temperature  of  —  79°  C.  Under  normal  conditions 
carbon  dioxide  is  a  colourless  and  odourless  gas  with  a  density  about  \\  times  as 
high  as  that  of  air.  Like  water  (and  indeed  all  other  substances),  it  can  occur  in  the 
gaseous,  liquid  or  solid  state,  depending  on  the  physical  conditions.  In  addition, 
carbon  dioxide  possesses  the  property  of  sublimation,  i.e.,  it  can  pass  directly  from 
the  solid  to  the  gaseous  state  without  becoming  liquid. 

Under  which  conditions  of  pressure  and  temperature  a  particular  state  occurs  is 
indicated  by  the  vapour  pressure  curve  (Figs.  1  and  2).  In  accordance  with  the  lines 
in  the  vapour  pressure  diagram,  the  transition  from  one  state  to  the  other,  in  con- 
junction with  absorption  or  release  of  heat.  Of  particular  interest  is  the  so-called 
triple  point,  where  all  the  three  states — gaseous,  liquid,  solid  can  co-exist  simul- 
taneously. For  example,  the  triple  point  for  water  is  located  at  a  pressure  of  4.6  mm 
mercury  column  (approx.  6/1000  atm.;  Fig.  1)  and  0.01°  C.  On  the  other  hand,  for 
CO,  this  point  is  located  at  5.1  atm.  and  —  56.2° C.  The  vapour  pressure  curve  indi- 
cates the  relationship  between  the  boiling  point  of  a  substance  and  the  pressure. 
Thus,  water  (Fig.  1)  boils  at  100°  C  at  a  pressure  of  1  atm.  (  =  normal  atmospheric 
pressure);  carbon  dioxide  (Fig.  2)  "boils"  at  0°  C  at  a  pressure  of  60  atm. 

To  make  carbon  dioxide  snow,  carbon  dioxide  is  cooled  at  high  pressure  (up  to 
70  atm.)  and  liquefies  in  consequence.  Further  cooling  takes  the  carbon  dioxide  to 
the  triple  point.  Now  the  compressed  liquid  carbon  dioxide  is  suddenly  expanded  by 
spraying  and  turns  into  "snow".  This  happens  because  the  evaporation  of  part  of 
the  liquid  causes  intensive  cooling  of  the  rest  (see  page  46).  The  dividing  line  between 
liquid  and  solid  in  Fig.  2  is  crossed :  the  carbon  dioxide  turns  from  liquid  to  solid. 
To  achieve  this  result,  the  carbon  dioxide  gas  is  liquefied  by  means  of  three-  or 
four-stage  compressors  (see  page  56)  with  intermediate  and  final  cooling,  the  liquid 
carbon  dioxide  then  being  expanded  in  a  tower  (on  the  right  in  Fig.  3).  About  one- 
third  of  the  liquid  is  thereby  transformed  into  snow;  the  other  two-thirds  turn  into 
gas.  which  is  removed  by  suction,  recompressed,  and  returned  to  the  process.  The 
snow  is  pressed  into  blocks  weighing  50-250  lb. 


24 


Fig.  1 

VAPOUR  PRESSURE  CURVE  OF  WATER     100 


pressure  (in  atm.) 


pressure  (atm.) 


:ai  11 11 11  1 1 1 1 11 11  1  / 

'-» -7-6 -5-4 -3-2-1    0»W*3»«.S*6*7»8/ 


—100 


Temperature  (°  C) 
pressure  (in  atm.) 


+  200  -300  +400 

Temperature  (°  C) 


10000 

1000 

100 

10 


1/10 


';7 


solid 


liquid 


triple  point 


/apour  pressure  curve 


as  vapour 

1     1     i    i     1 


—100 


—50 


+50 


+100 


Temperature  (°  C) 


Fig.  2     VAPOUR  PRESSURE  CURVE  OF  CARBON  DIOXIDE 

(coo  re 


carbon  dioxid 
(gaseous 


ige  2nd  stage  3rd  stage 

I        t       t 


'.   liquid 
t  carbon 
dioxide 

nozzle 


carbon 
dioxide 
snow 


block  of  dry  ice 


Fig.  3     MANUFACTURE  OF  DRY  ICE 

(schematic) 


25 


THERMOSTAT 

A  thermostat  is  a  device  for  maintaining  a  temperature  constant  at  a  desired  value. 
For  this  purpose  it  is  equipped  with  a  temperature  sensing  unit  which  detects  any 
deviation  of  the  actual  temperature  from  the  desired  value  and  transmits  information 
on  this  to  a  device  which  cancels  the  deviation.  The  sensing  unit  may  be  a  tube  filled 
with  a  liquid,  a  bimetallic  strip  or  a  spring  bellows.  The  simplest  device  of  this  kind  is 
the  direct-acting  thermostat.  It  makes  use  of  the  fact  that  nearly  all  liquids  expand 
on  heating  (Fig.  1).  The  thermostat  itself  consists  of  a  tube  filled  with  a  liquid  which 
expands  very  considerably  when  it  is  heated  (Fig.  2).  The  connection  to  the  control 
device  which  actuates  the  valve  in  the  hot-water  supply  pipe  (for  example)  is  estab- 
lished by  a  capillary  tube  which  is  also  filled  with  liquid.  If  the  air  temperature  in  the 
room  under  thermostatic  control  rises  above  the  desired  level,  the  liquid  in  the  sensing 
unit  expands,  overcomes  the  restraining  force  of  a  spring  on  the  valve,  and  throttles 
or  closes  the  latter.  As  a  result  of  this,  the  flow  of  hot  water  (or  other  heating  medium) 
is  reduced,  and  less  heat  is  supplied  to  the  room.  Because  of  this  the  temperature 
in  the  room  will  go  down  after  a  time,  so  that  the  liquid  cools  and  contracts.  The  spring 
load  on  the  valve  once  again  exceeds  the  pressure  exerted  by  the  liquid  and  opens 
the  valve.  In  this  way  the  temperature  in  the  room  is  kept  constant  within  fairly 
narrow  limits.  The  desired  value  of  the  temperature  is  set  on  a  graduated  scale 
which  has  been  calibrated  by  the  makers.  By  rotation  of  the  screw  on  the  control 
device  the  valve  spring  is  compressed  to  a  greater  or  less  extent  by  the  liquid,  so 
that  the  valve  correspondingly  opens  more  or  less.  The  flow  rate  of  the  hot  water 
thus  increases  or  decreases,  causing  the  temperature  level  in  the  room  to  rise  or  to 
fall  (Fig.  2).  A  different  type  of  device  is  the  indirect-acting  thermostat,  which  uses 
an  auxiliary  source  of  power  (e.g.,  electricity  or  compressed  air)  for  transmitting  the 
impulses  for  effecting  the  change  in  temperature.  In  a  device  of  this  kind  the  sensing 
unit  actuates  a  contact,  i.e.,  an  electrical  contact  is  closed  (Fig.  3),  so  that,  for  example, 
an  electromagnetically  controlled  valve  of  the  heating  system  is  opened  or  closed. 
For  instance,  if  the  above  mentioned  liquid-filled  sensing  unit  is  employed,  the  ex- 
pansion of  the  liquid  due  to  a  rise  in  temperature  closes  the  contact.  The  electric 
current  which  then  energises  the  electromagnetic  valve  will  close  the  latter.  When  the 
temperature  tails,  the  reverse  process  takes  place.  When  the  pre-set  minimum 
temperature  is  reached,  and  the  liquid  in  the  sensing  unit  has  contracted  a  certain 
amount,  the  circuit  is  broken,  so  that  the  electromagnet  now  ceases  to  keep  the  valve 
closed.  Consequently  the  hot  water  flows  through  the  system  once  again. 

Another  type  of  sensing  unit  is  the  so-called  bimetallic  strip  (Fig.  4b).  This  consists 
of  two  thin  strips  of  different  metals  bonded  one  against  the  other  to  form  a  composite 
strip.  These  metals  undergo  different  amounts  of  thermal  expansion.  One  end  of  the 
bimetallic  strip  is  fixed.  When  the  temperature  rises,  one  metal  expands  more  than 
the  other,  causing  the  strip  to  curve,  so  that  its  free  end  actuates  a  contact  (Fig.  4a). 

A  third  type  of  sensing  unit  consists  of  a  resilient  bellows  filled  with  a  volatile 
liquid  or  a  gas  (Fig.  4c).  When  the  temperature  rises,  the  increase  in  volume  of  the 
vapour  or  gas  in  the  bellows  causes  the  latter  to  expand  and  actuate  a  contact.  A  fall 
in  temperature  has  the  opposite  effect,  i.e.,  the  bellows  contracts  and  may  (as  in  the 
example  illustrated)  actuate  another  contact. 


26 


a)  L 


Fig.   1      PRINCIPLE  OF  THERMOSTATIC  CONTROL 


regulating  device 


air  in  room 

air  in  room 
heat  sensing  unit 


heating  medium 
e.g.,  hot  water) 


\_f~\J^\  radiator 


W 


Fig.  2     THERMOSTAT  FOR  SPACE  HEATING  CONTROL 
(direct  action) 


contacts 


adjustment 


sensing  unit 


heating 
medium 


Fig.  3     DIAGRAM  OF  A 

DIRECT-ACTING  THERMOSTAT 


when  heated 


bimetallic  strip 


:ig.  4a     BIMETALLIC  SENSING  UNIT      Fig.  4b     PRINCIPLE  OF  THE       Fig.  4c     BELLOWS-TYPE 

BIMETALLIC  STRIP  SENSING  UNIT 


27 


PRESSES 

Presses  provide  a  means  of  compressing  and  shaping  components  by  exerting  a 
high  pressure  on  them.  Depending  on  their  method  of  functioning,  a  distinction  is 
to  be  made  between  hydraulic  and  mechanical  presses.  Hydraulic  presses  use  a  gas 
or  a  liquid  (usually  water)  as  the  power-transmitting  medium.  Their  operation  is 
based  on  the  phenomenon  that  the  pressure  exerted  on  a  liquid  or  gaseous  medium 
which  is  compressed  in  a  cylinder  is  of  the  same  magnitude  at  all  points  of  the 
cylinder.  "Pressure"  is  defined  as  force  acting  per  unit  of  area.  If  the  liquid  is  com- 
pressed by  means  of  a  small  piston  in  a  small  cylinder  which  is  in  communication 
with  a  large  cylinder  closed  by  a  large  piston  (as  in  Fig.  1),  then  the  situation  will  be 
as  follows :  on  one  side  a  small  force  acts  upon  a  small  area  (i.e.,  the  small  piston) 
and  produces  a  certain  pressure.  On  the  other  side  this  pressure  acts  upon  a  large 
area  (i.e.,  the  large  piston).  A  large  force  can  therefore  be  developed  by  the  large 
piston  (since  pressure  is  force  per  unit  of  area,  then  force  must  be  pressure  times  area). 
The  volume  that  is  displaced  by  these  two  piston  movements  is,  however,  the  same 
in  both  cylinders,  i.e.,  the  small  piston  has  to  travel  a  great  distance  to  make  the 
large  piston  move  only  a  short  distance.  A  hydraulic  press  is  operated,  not  by  one, 
but  usually  by  three  small  pistons  which  consecutively  force  water  into  the  large 
cylinder.  To  ensure  that  the  pulsation  of  the  liquid  flow  is  not  transmitted  to  the 
main  cylinder  of  the  press,  the  delivery  pipe  is  provided  with  an  air  vessel  which  is 
partly  filled  with  air  and  has  a  cushioning  effect  (Fig.  2).  Normally  this  air  has 
the  same  pressure  as  that  in  the  delivery  pipe.  If  a  sudden  surge  of  pressure  occurs, 
the  air  is  further  compressed  and  absorbs  the  rise  in  pressure.  Conversely,  if  the 
quantity  of  hydraulic  medium  delivered  through  the  pipe  is  inadequate  to  meet 
brief  high  demands,  the  air  pressure  in  the  air  vessel  can  to  some  extent  compensate 
for  this  by  boosting  the  pressure  of  the  liquid  in  the  pipe. 

When  the  water  pump  (i.e.,  the  small  pressure  generating  cylinder)  is  started  up, 
it  fills  the  main  cylinder  with  water  and  produces  a  pressure  which  causes  the  ram 
of  the  press  to  descend  and  exert  pressure  on  the  work-piece  placed  under  it.  Re- 
traction of  the  ram  is  effected  by  two  small  pistons  actuated  by  water  under  relatively 
low  pressure. 

Mechanical  presses  have  various  drive  systems.  In  the  screw  press  (Fig.  3a)  a  screw 
spindle  is  rotated  in  a  fixed  nut,  whereby  a  longitudinal  force  is  developed  in  the 
spindle,  one  end  of  which  thrusts  against  the  work-piece  laid  under  it. 

The  upper  end  of  the  spindle  of  a  simple  manually-operated  press  as  illustrated 
in  Fig.  3b  (known  as  a  "fly  press")  is  provided  with  a  cross-piece  for  rotating  it. 

On  the  larger  presses  the  upper  end  of  the  screw  spindle  is  provided  with  a  large 
flywheel  which,  when  it  is  rotating,  contains  a  large  reserve  of  stored-up  energy. 
This  energy  is  transmitted  through  the  spindle  to  the  work-piece.  The  flywheel  is 
driven  by  a  friction  wheel.  Retraction  is  effected  by  another  friction  wheel,  which 
drives  the  flywheel  in  the  opposite  direction  (Fig.  3a). 

A  further  modification  of  the  mechanically  driven  press  is  the  eccentric  press 
(Fig.  4)  and  the  crank  press  (Fig.  5).  In  both  cases  a  large  flywheel  is  driven  by  a  motor 
or  other  prime  mover.  When  the  ram  of  the  press  strikes  the  work-piece,  the  rotational 
energy  of  the  flywheel  produces  a  torque  (twisting  moment)  in  the  shaft,  whereby 
a  relatively  large  force  is  developed  at  the  eccentric  or  at  the  crank.  This  force  is 
imparted  to  the  work-piece. 


28 


small  force,  long       large  force,  short 
travel  of  piston         travel  of  piston 


piston  travel 
distances       > 

small  area 


t  t  t 


large  area 


~^._—}_ \Z~_  pressure  chamber :_: 


pressing  cylinder        air  accumulator 
mi  1 1  ii  i  ,i.»7T,frTT,T,!TrTT,!,!,V 


Fig.   1      PRINCIPLE  OF  THE  HYDRAULIC  PRESS 


pressing     friction  drive  wheels 

wheel  can  be  shifted  sideways  lifting  wheel 


ram 


viS^S^^^^^^Sr?:':?:- 


::::::::::::*YititpxiltoC"'"; 


wm^mm 


work-piece 


WvSS-i-J  return 
piston 


Fig.  2     HYDRAULIC  PRESS    (schematic) 


-work-piece 


handwheel 


screw  spindletgjj1 

:#M|  .i.i.i ...•.'.'.'.'.'■'■'*.'l'.'  A'l'!'!.  •/•Xv.'.v.1.1.1.1.1.'.1  &•&' 

-A'.'.''. .yr .'j.1.1.1 .-.■■■. . .' ■'''.'.. 

•     <ff.v'- —     ■■■•■"  ■■ — trm 


Fig.  3a     SCREW  PRESS     (schematic) 
flywheel 


1 


*m 


_.       disc  with  eccentric  cam 


Fig.  3b     SCREW  PRESS  WITH 

HANDWHEEL  (FLY  PRESS) 


tory 


eccentricity 


crank  shaft 


lifting  spring 


Fig.  4     ECCENTRIC  PRESS 
(schematic) 


29 


J|';':';'x.:.:>':*:-;¥H-;fc;-& 

Fig.   5     CRANK  PRESS 
(schematic) 


PUMPS 

Pumps  are  used  for  the  transport  of  liquids  or  gases  through  pipes.  The  general 
principle  is  as  follows:  on  one  hand,  a  suction  is  produced,  whereby  the  liquid  is 
drawn  in ;  on  the  other  hand,  an  excess  pressure  to  overcome  the  counter  pressure 
is  developed,  causing  the  fluid  (liquid  or  gas)  to  be  forced  away.  According  to  the 
various  operating  principles,  several  types  of  pump  are  to  be  distinguished :  1.  Piston 
pumps,  which  operate  with  reciprocating  (up-and-down  or  to-and-fro)  or  rotating 
pistons.  2.  Centrifugal  pumps,  which  operate  with  rotating  blades.  3.  Jet  pumps, 
which  utilise  the  energy  of  flowing  fluids. 

1.  Piston  pumps:  Consider  a  piston  in  a  cylinder,  as  in  Fig.  1.  When  the  piston 
moves  to  the  right  from  its  extreme  left  initial  position,  water  flows  into  the  vacant 
space  that  is  formed  in  the  cylinder.  This  happens  because  the  atmospheric  pressure 
acting  upon  the  surface  of  the  water  outside  the  pump  forces  water  up  the  pipe  into 
the  cylinder,  in  which  the  outward  stroke  of  the  piston  has  produced  a  vacuum  (or, 
at  any  rate,  a  lowering  of  pressure).  Theoretically  the  atmospheric  pressure  can 
sustain  a  column  of  water  33  ft.  in  height.  A  pump  would  thus  have  a  "suction 
head"  of  33  ft.,  i.e.,  it  would  be  able  to  draw  water  up  to  a  height  of  33  ft.  into  the 
cylinder.  However,  the  fact  that  water  has  a  certain  vapour  pressure  and  encounters 
resistance  in  the  suction  pipe,  reduces  the  actual  suction  head  to  usually  somewhere 
around  23  ft.  (Fig.  2).  When  the  piston  has  travelled  to  its  farthest  position,  it  changes 
its  direction  and  starts  to  move  back  to  the  left.  This  produces  a  higher  pressure  in 
the  cylinder  and  causes  the  inlet  valve  to  close  and  the  delivery  valve  to  open.  The 
latter  valve  remains  closed  during  the  suction  stroke  of  the  piston,  as  the  pressure 
in  the  delivery  pipe  is  higher  than  in  the  cylinder.  The  piston  now  pushes  the  liquid 
out  of  the  cylinder,  against  the  pressure  in  the  delivery  pipe.  Special  forms  of  the 
piston  pump  are  the  lifting  pump,  which  discharges  the  liquid  when  the  piston 
rises  (Fig.  3) ;  the  diaphragm  pump,  in  which  a  flexible  diaphragm  takes  the  place  of 
the  piston,  this  diaphragm  being  moved  to  and  fro  by  an  actuating  rod  (Fig.  4); 
and  the  vane  pump,  in  which  instead  of  a  piston  there  is  a  vane  which  is  swung  to 
and  fro  in  a  circular  casing  (Fig.  5) ;  the  inlet  valves  are  installed  in  a  fixed  partition 
of  the  casing,  while  the  delivery  valves  are  in  the  vane. 

2.  Centrifugal  pumps:  A  centrifugal  pump  is  very  similar  to  a  Francis  turbine 
(see  page  62)  operating  "in  reverse".  In  a  turbine  the  water  drives  a  runner  wheel1, 
whereas  in  a  pump  a  similar  wheel  fitted  with  vanes  and  known  as  an  impeller 
imparts  motion  to  the  water  (or  other  fluid).  A  piston  pump  delivers  the  water  in  a 
pulsating  stream,  but  a  centrifugal  pump  gives  a  steady  flow.  The  pressure  for  achiev- 
ing the  required  "delivery  head"  is  produced  by  centrifugal  acceleration  of  the 
fluid  in  the  rotating  impeller.  The  fluid  flows  axially  towards  the  impeller,  is 
deflected  by  it,  and  flows  out  through  the  aperatures  between  the  vanes.  Thus  the 
fluid  undergoes  a  change  in  direction  and  is  accelerated.  This  produces  an  increase 
in  pressure  at  the  pump  outlet.  On  leaving  the  impeller,  the  fluid  may  first  pass  through 
a  ring  of  fixed  vanes  which  surrounds  the  impeller  and  is  known  as  a  diffuser.  In 
this  device  with  its  gradually  widening  passages  the  velocity  of  the  liquid  is  reduced, 
its  kinetic  energy  being  converted  into  pressure  energy.  This  conversion  is  completed 
in  the  volute  of  the  pump,  i.e.,  the  gradually  widening  spiral  casing  (Fig.  6).  It  should 
be  noted  that  in  some  pumps  there  is  no  diffuser,  the  fluid  passing  directly  from  the 
impeller  to  the  volute.  Pumps  of  the  kind  described  here  cannot,  however,  produce 
high  delivery  heads.  A  higher  delivery  head  can  be  obtained  by  means  of  a  multi- 
stage centrifugal  pump  in  which  two  or  more  impellers  are  mounted  one  behind  the 
other  (compare  Fig.  8  with  Fig.  7). 

As  a  rule,  centrifugal  pumps  are  not  self-priming,  i.e.,  they  are  unable  to  draw  in 
the  fluid  on  first  being  started  up,  because  when  the  impeller  is  revolving  in  air  in 
the  "empty"  casing,  it  cannot  develop  sufficient  suction.  These  pumps  therefore 
have  to  be  primed  (filled  with  water)  for  starting. 

1.  Rotor  in  U.S.A. 


30 


Fig.   1      OPERATING  PRINCIPLE  OF  A  PISTON  PUMP 


Fig.  2     THEORETICAL  (a)  AND 

ACTUAL  (b)  SUCTION  HEAD 


impeller 
Fig.  7 
LOW-PRESSURE   PUMP 

(schematic) 


Fig.  8. 
HIGH-PRESSURE  PUMP 

(schematic) 


31 


COMPRESSORS  (PISTON  COMPRESSORS) 

Compressors  are  machines  for  the  compression  of  gases  and  vapours  (to  pressures 
of  2000  atm.  and  higher).  Piston  compressors  are  used  for  producing  the  highest 
pressures,  whereas  centrifugal  compressors  (see  page  298)  are  used  for  low  to  medium 
pressures. 

Fig.  1  shows  a  piston  compressor.  The  crankshaft  is  driven  by  a  suitable  prime 
mover  (electric  motor,  steam  engine,  internal  combustion  engine,  etc.).  A  connecting 
rod  between  the  crankshaft  and  the  piston  transforms  the  rotary  motion  of  the  former 
into  a  to-and-fro  motion  of  the  piston  in  the  cylinder.  The  valves  are  spring-loaded 
and  react  to  variations  in  pressure  produced  by  the  piston  movement.  In  performing 
the  suction  stroke  the  piston  causes  a  lowering  of  pressure  in  the  cylinder,  so  that  the 
inlet  valve  (Fig.  2)  opens  against  the  restraining  pressure  of  its  spring  and  allows  the 
gas  to  flow  into  the  cylinder.  Then,  when  the  piston  begins  to  form  its  return  stroke 
(compression  stroke),  the  inlet  closes  because  of  the  increase  in  pressure  within  the 
cylinder.  When  the  piston  has  completed  this  stroke,  i.e.,  has  arrived  at  "top  dead 
centre",  the  pressure  of  the  gas  compressed  in  the  cylinder  is  so  high  that  the  delivery 
valve  opens  against  the  restraining  pressure  of  its  spring,  allow  the  gas  to  flow  into 
the  delivery  pipe.  The  spring  of  the  delivery  valve  need  not  be  as  powerful  as  might 
at  first  be  supposed.  Actually  there  is  also  a  pressure  acting  in  the  delivery  pipe,  at  the 
rear  of  the  valve,  and  this  pressure  is  only  a  little  below  that  which  is  produced  by 
the  compression  stroke  of  the  piston.  Also,  it  is  this  pressure  in  the  delivery  pipe  that 
keeps  the  delivery  valve  closed  during  the  suction  stroke.  Usually,  the  compressor 
feeds  the  compressed  gas  into  an  intermediate  vessel — called  a  receiver  in  the  case 
of  an  air  compressor — from  which  it  is  supplied  to  consumer  equipment. 

The  operating  cycle  of  a  compressor  is  characterised  by  the  so-called  indicator 
diagram  (Fig.  3).  It  shows  the  relation  between  pressure  and  volume  during  one 
revolution  of  the  crankshaft,  i.e.,  during  one  to-and-fro  movement  of  the  piston. 
Line  1  represents  the  suction  stroke :  the  gas  volume  in  the  cylinder  increases  while 
the  (low)  pressure  remains  constant.  Line  2  represents  the  compression :  the  pressure 
rises  while  the  volume  decreases.  Then  comes  the  discharge  of  the  compressed  gas, 
represented  by  line  3 :  the  volume  of  the  cylinder  decreases  at  constant  (high)  pressure. 
Line  4  shows  that  when  the  piston  performs  the  suction  stroke  (i.e.,  travels  to  the 
right),  the  inlet  valve  cannot  immediately  open,  as  the  residual  gas  in  the  cylinder  at 
the  end  of  the  compression  stroke  must  expand  until  the  pressure  in  the  cylinder  has 
fallen  below  the  pressure  in  the  inlet  pipe.  Not  till  then  does  the  inlet  valve  open. 
Since  the  piston  must  not  actually  strike  the  end  of  the  cylinder,  there  is  always 
some  dead  space  and  therefore  an  undesirable  gas  residue,  so  that  only  a  portion  of 
the  suction  stroke  is  really  utilised  for  drawing  gas  into  the  cylinder.  If  high  pressures 
are  required,  compression  will  have  to  be  achieved  in  several  stages,  i.e.,  the  gas  is 
passed  from  one  cylinder  to  the  next  (Fig.  4).  As  gases  become  heated  when  they  are 
compressed,  it  is  necessary  to  provide  cooling  between  the  successive  stages  (Fig. 
4a).  These  multi-stage  compressors  are  usually  of  the  double-acting  type,  i.e.,  when 
the  piston  travels  in  one  direction,  the  gas  is  compressed  on  one  side  and  suction 
is  produced  on  the  other  side  of  the  piston :  the  opposite  occurs  during  the  return 
stroke. 


32 


inlet  valve 


flywheel 


delivery  pipe 

compression  in  cylinder 

Fig.   1      SECTION  THROUGH  A  COMPRESSOR 


plate 


Fig.  2     VALVE 


Pj  =  final  pressure 


P:  =  intake  pressure 


"Li  inlet  valve      compressed  air|gg|  |g 

outlet  valve  p;„    ^k  £__ 


Fig.  4b 


t 


33 


PETROLEUM 

About  300  million  years  ago  the  conditions  for  the  subsequent  formation  of 
petroleum  (mineral  oil)  were  established  in  shallow  coastal  waters  by  the  teeming 
tiny  creatures  and  plants  that  lived  and  died  in  vast  numbers.  The  ooze  formed  on 
the  bottom  by  the  remains  of  these  organisms  was  unable  to  decompose  because 
of  lack  of  oxygen.  As  a  result  of  climatic  changes,  these  coastal  areas  became  buried 
under  layers  of  earth,  and  the  organic  remains  were  subjected  to  high  pressures 
and  temperatures  over  periods  of  millions  of  years.  The  fats,  carbohydrates  and 
proteins  were  thereby  subjected  to  conditions  in  which  they  were  decomposed  and 
underwent  extensive  chemical  changes.  As  a  result  of  these  changes,  a  large  number 
of  compounds  were  formed  which  all  enter  into  the  composition  of  petroleum 
(alkanes,  aromatic  compounds,  sulphur  compounds,  etc.).  As  the  conditions  of 
decomposition  varied  from  one  region  to  another,  petroleum  found  in  different 
parts  of  the  world  tends  to  vary  considerably  in  composition.  In  some  places  the 
decomposition  was  a  very  intensive  process,  with  the  result  that  natural  gas  and 
petroleum  particularly  rich  in  aromatic  compounds  (benzene  derivatives)  were 
formed.  In  addition  to  pressure  and  heat,  it  is  certain  that  catalysts,  ferments  and 
especially  bacteria  have  affected  the  chemical  composition  of  petroleum  crude  oils. 

The  world's  petroleum  reserves  are  estimates  at  upward  of  40  milliard1  tons, 
and  production  is  running  at  well  over  1  milliard  tons  per  year.  Unless  extensive 
new  deposits  are  found  (under  the  seas,  in  desert  regions),  it  seems  likely  that  the 
world's  recoverable  reserves  of  petroleum  will  be  exhausted  in  something  like  half 
a  century  from  now. 

A  vast  variety  of  products  is  obtained  from  petroleum:  petrol  (gasoline)  for 
aircraft  and  vehicles,  fuel  oil  for  heating  and  steam-raising,  diesel  oil,  etc.  Also, 
numerous  organic  chemicals  are  manufactured  from  petroleum  and  are  processed 
into  a  wide  range  of  products :  synthetic  rubber,  pesticides,  synthetic  fibres,  solvents, 
drugs,  etc.  Large-scale  exploitation  of  the  world's  petroleum  reserves  started  about 
a  hundred  years  ago  and  is  now  a  major  factor  in  the  power  resources  available  to 
modern  man. 

1.  A  milliard  is  equivalent  to  one  billion  in  U.S.A. 


34 


ridge 


WW  - 


■  10  million  years  ago 
rments,  bacteria 


heat 


boring  (sealed) 


=ipf*anticlinal  fold 


^A^-"  'Vs  w  V  v 


petroleum  deposits  (schematic) 


35 


PETROLEUM   DISTILLATION 

Petroleum  is  a  complex  mixture  of  hydrocarbons  of  varying  volatility,  together 
with  small  quantities  of  substances  which  contain  oxygen,  nitrogen,  sulphur  and  ash 
derived  from  the  vegetable  and  animal  organisms  from  which  the  petroleum  was 
formed  (see  page  ^4).  The  crude  oil,  which  is  conveyed  to  the  refinery  by  pipeline, 
oil  tanker  or  tank  wagon,  first  has  water  and  solid  contaminants  removed  from  it 
by  sedimentation  and  is  then  split  up  by  fractional  distillation  (see  page  14).  The 
crude  oil  is  pumped  through  tube  stills  in  which  it  is  heated  to  280°-300°C.  It  is 
then  admitted  to  a  large  fractionating  column  in  which  the  gases,  the  readily  volatile 
petrol  constituents,  and  the  kerosene  (paraffin  oil)  are  distilled  off.  The  remaining 
distillation  residue,  which  is  already  of  a  viscous  consistency,  is  pumped  through  a 
second  tube  still,  in  which  it  is  reheated,  and  is  then  passed  to  a  second  fractionating 
column.  In  this  column,  which  operates  under  vacuum,  various  grades  of  oil  are 
distilled  off  (gas  oil,  diesel  oil,  cylinder  oil,  machine  oil,  etc.),  while  asphalt,  mineral 
pitch,  coke-like  residues  and  inorganic  matter  remain  behind.  Except  for  the  gas, 
nearly  all  the  petroleum  fractions  require  further  processing  whereby  their  content 
of  deleterious  impurities  (ash,  sulphur  and  nitrogen  compounds,  "gumming"  and 
polymerising  substances)  is  reduced  or  these  impurities  are  removed  altogether, 
either  by  chemical  conversion  (treatment  with  appropriate  chemicals)  or  by  physical 
adsorption  with  such  substances  as  active  charcoal,  silica  gel,  kieselguhr  (diatoma- 
ceous  earth),  fuller's  earth,  etc.  Many  petroleum  fractions  have  to  be  treated  with 
additives  in  order  to  acquire  the  desired  properties.  For  example,  petrol  (gasoline) 
must  undergo  further  chemical  processing  to  give  it  good  anti-knock  and  ignition 
properties,  reduce  its  odour,  and  make  it  resistant  to  ageing.  Similarly,  machine  oils 
have  to  be  non-resinous,  pale-coloured,  odourless  and  oxidation-resistant ;  additives 
which  further  improve  the  properties  of  the  oil  are  also  employed. 

Despite  the  separation  of  the  multiple  mixture  of  which  petroleum  consists  into 
a  number  of  fractions,  each  of  which  contains  fewer  constituents  than  the  initial 
crude  petroleum,  each  fraction  still  comprises  many  different  constituents  (for 
example,  petrol  contains  upwards  of  a  hundred).  The  correct  fractionation  of  petro- 
leum is  therefore  a  difficult  art  which,  in  addition  to  the  necessary  knowledge, 
involves  the  use  of  much  complex  measuring  equipment  and  costly  apparatus.  Foi 
instance,  petroleum  contains  corrosive  substances.  Because  of  this  the  giant  modern 
petroleum  fractionating  columns  are  made  of  special  high-grade  steel.  Their  opera- 
tion is  well-nigh  fully  automatic. 


36 


ol 


ImoS  V- 


Oil 


o 


o  </>   (     \J  *J  > 


c^ 


>%T3 
=•■0 
10   *8 


ajnssajd  leujjou 

'uwnioo  auiJBuoipejj  jsjjj 


€ 


In 


■§  o 


0)  "O 
3    «I 


ii  o 

™  i 

(/>   o 


iJ  l 


/-\ 


37 


Refinery  at  Cressier,  Switzerland 
Photo  Roland  Schneider,  Len  Sirman  Press 


<v 


NATURAL  GAS 

Something  like  700  milliard1  cubic  yards  of  gas  a  year  are  produced  by  gas  wells 
in  various  parts  of  the  world.  Most  of  this  is  combustible  gas  now  generally  referred 
to  as  "natural  gas"  ("marsh  gas"  is  an  older  name  for  very  much  the  same  thing); 
it  consists  of  80-95%  methane,  a  hydrocarbon. 

Some  natural  gas  wells  also  produce  incombustible  or  highly  toxic  gases  such  as 
carbon  dioxide,  sulphur  dioxide,  hydrogen  sulphide  and  others,  in  rare  cases  also 
inert  gases  (noble  gases)  such  as  helium,  neon  and  argon.  The  sulphurous  gases  for 
the  most  part  are  of  volcanic  origin  and  are  formed  deep  down  in  the  earth's  crust. 
Natural  gas  in  the  more  specific  sense  of  a  combustible  hydrogen  (largely  methane) 
is  usually  found  in  regions  where  petroleum  is  also  likely  to  occur.  Many  gas  wells 
produce  so-called  "wet"  natural  gas  containing  petrol  vapour  which  can  be  separated 
and  utilised.  For  example,  in  the  United  States,  up  to  10%  of  the  country's  petrol 
consumption  is  supplied  from  this  source.  In  dry  natural  gas,  in  addition  to  methane, 
small  quantities  of  the  following  gases  are  often  found  to  be  present :  carbon  monox- 
ide, hydrogen,  helium,  neon,  argon,  and  nitrogen.  Natural  gas  provides  a  very 
significant  part  of  the  raw  material  for  energy  production :  in  terms  of  energy  content, 
the  annual  output  of  natural  gas  corresponds  to  350  million  tons  of  coal.  A  large 
proportion  of  the  natural  gas  is  conveyed  through  huge  pipelines  from  the  wells  to 
the  industrial  centres  and  major  cities,  where  it  is  used  for  industrial  and  domestic 
heating.  A  proportion  is  also  used  as  fuel  for  gas  engines  which  drive  electricity- 
generating  plant.  Also,  an  increasing  proportion  of  the  natural  gas  output  is  chemi- 
cally processed  into  motor  fuels  (petrol,  diesel  oil),  plastics,  man-made  fibres, 
synthetic  rubber,  anti-freeze  preparations,  alcohols,  solvents,  insecticides,  etc. 

Besides  the  naturally  existing  gas  wells,  increasing  numbers  of  artificial  wells  are 
drilled  for  tapping  the  underground  gas  supplies.  Some  of  these  wells  deliver  gas  at 
pressures  of  2000  lb./in2.  and  upwards.  Sometimes  former  gas-fields  (worked  out 
wells)  are  used  as  underground  storage  reservoirs — sometimes  of  1^  milliard  cubic 
yards  capacity — for  natural  gas  which  may  first  have  been  chemically  cleaned  and 
had  their  petrol  content  removed. 

Large  quantities  of  natural  gas  are  found  at  the  foot  of  the  Western  Pyrenees. 
In  recent  years,  too,  very  large  supplies  of  natural  gas  have  been  discovered  in 
Holland. 

I.  A  milliard  is  equivalent  to  one  billion  in  U.S.A. 


40 


gas  pocket 


petroleum 
for  consumption 


natural  gas 


gas  engines 


petrol  (gasoline) 
solvents 

plastics  (synthetic  rubber, 
man-made  fibres) 


41 


TOWN  GAS1 

Town  gas  is  a  combustible  and  toxic  mixture  comprising  50%  hydrogen,  20-30% 
methane,  7-17%  carbon  monoxide,  3%  carbon  dioxide,  8%  nitrogen  and  2%  hydro- 
carbons. Furthermore,  town  gas  contains  ammonia,  sulphur,  hydrocyanic  acid, 
benzene  and  other  substances.  Sulphur  (in  the  form  of  strong-smelling  chemical 
compounds)  produces  the  characteristic  "gas  smell";  indeed,  sometimes  the  smell 
is  deliberately  added  to  provide  a  warning  in  the  event  of  the  escape  of  gas.  De 
toxicated  gas  contains  little  or  no  carbon  monoxide.  It  is  distributed  to  the  consumers 
through  pipelines  at  a  pressure  of  at  least  about  1  lb./in2.  The  quality  of  the  gas  is. 
rated  in  terms  of  its  calorific  value,  i.e.,  the  amount  of  heat  that  is  produced  when 
one  cubic  foot  of  gas  is  burned  with  air.  The  calorific  value  ranges  from  450  to  500 
B.T.U.  per  cubic  foot. 

Because  of  its  carbon  monoxide  content,  town  gas  is  highly  poisonous,  and  because 
of  its  content  of  combustible  gases  it  is  highly  explosive  when  mixed  with  air.  If 
several  cubic  yards  of  gas  are  allowed  to  escape  into  a  room,  an  explosive  mixture 
will  be  formed,  which  can  be  ignited  even  by  a  tiny  electric  spark,  such  as  may,  for 
instance,  be  caused  by  a  door  bell  or  a  telephone  ringing. 

Town  gas  is  a  fuel  gas.  The  term  "coal  gas"  is  sometimes  applied  to  it,  denoting 
that  it  is  produced  mostly  from  coal.  One  way  to  produce  this  gas  is  to  heat  rough 
coal  to  a  temperature  of  1000°-1200°C,  out  of  contact  of  air,  in  a  chamber  called  a 
retort,  which  may  be  of  the  inclined  type.  In  this  process,  up  to  about  500  cu.  ft. 
of  town  gas  can  be  produced  from  100  lb.  of  dry  coal  with  a  low  ash  content.  What 
remains  of  the  coal  after  extraction  of  the  gas  is  called  coke.  In  other  gas-making 
processes  the  coal  is  not  heated  by  the  external  application  of  heat,  but  is  converted 
into  gas  by  partial  combustion  with  oxygen  and  chemical  reaction  with  water 
vapour.  The  crude  gas  produced  must  be  carefully  purified:  in  particular,  it  is 
necessary  to  remove  volatile  sulphur  and  nitrogen  compounds.  In  many  cases  the 
"water  gas"  or  "producer  gas"  obtained  in  this  way  is  used  as  an  admixture  to  coal 
gas  (up  to  40%  being  added).  Fuel  gases  from  oil  refineries  (which  gases  are  produced 
by  gasification  of  petroleum)  or  natural  gas  are  playing  an  increasingly  important 
part  in  town  gas  supply.  Despite  its  dangerous  character,  town  gas  is  unlikely  to  be 
entirely  superseded  by  electricity  in  the  foreseeable  future.  Gas  will  be  able  to  hold 
its  own  because  of  its  relatively  low  cost  and  the  convenience  with  which  it  can  be 
distributed  through  pipes.  At  the  same  time,  the  large  quantities  of  carbon  dioxide 
and  the  by  no  means  inconsiderable  quantities  of  sulphur  dioxide,  which  are  formed 
in  the  combustion  of  gas,  add  to  the  pollution  of  the  atmosphere  of  our  towns. 

I .  Coal  gas  in  U.S.A. 


42 


regenerator  for  producer  gas 
and/or  air,  or  gas  discharge 


regenerator  for  gas  discharge, 
or  producer  gas  and/or  air 


HORIZONTAL  CHAMBER  OVEN     (circulating-combination-coke-oven  plant) 


cooling  water    tar    naphthaline  ammonia 
gas  water  condensate  water 


sulphur 


hydrocyanic  acid      benzol 
(carbon  monoxide) 


generation  of  pressure 


pressure  control 


flow  metering 


43 


•OTTW'iiWW 


Gas-holder,  Bienne,  Switzerland 
Photo  Roland  Schneider,  Len  Sirman  Press 


r*rt  ** 


4Mb    ^Hf  * 

V 

\\  h- 

_^ 

V 

^  Ml 

■      \ 

—.v'jP 

§r\>*\ 

Hfiimi 

Warn 

i  i  -.1  \\i\t 


NATURAL  PETROL  (GASOLINE) 

A  distinction  is  made  between  synthetic  petrol,  which  is  produced  from  coal  and 
other  raw  materials  by  chemical  processes,  and  natural  petrol,  most  of  which  is 
obtained  as  a  substance  already  present  in  petroleum  (mineral  oil).  The  name 
"petrol"  (or  "gasoline")  denotes  a  mixture  of  liquid,  volatile  hydrocarbons  or,  to 
be  more  precise,  a  mixture  of  alkanes,  naphthenes  and  aromatic  compounds  with 
boiling  points  between  40°  and  180°  C.  "Hydrocarbons"  is  a  general  designation 
for  chemical  compounds  which  consist  solely  of  the  elements  hydrogen  and  carbon 
and  which  readily  burn  to  produce  carbon  dioxide  and  water  if  they  are  mixed  with 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  air  and  then  ignited.  Petrol  for  use  as  a  fuel  for  internal 
combustion  engines  is  produced  by  the  following  process : 

The  petroleum  is  pumped  from  the  well  through  pipelines  to  storage  tanks  at  the 
port  of  shipment,  where  the  crude  oil  undergoes  a  preliminary  purification  treatment. 
Tankers  convey  the  crude  oil  to  other  ports,  where  it  is  discharged  into  storage  tanks. 
From  here  it  is  distributed  to  the  refineries,  e.g.,  through  pipelines.  At  the  refinery 
the  petroleum  is  preheated  in  heat  exchangers,  then  passed  to  tube  stills,  where  it  is 
heated  to  a  high  temperature  in  special  steel  tubes.  These  stills  are  fired  with  oil 
which  is  likewise  obtained  from  the  crude  oil.  The  crude  oil,  heated  to  a  temperature 
of  several  hundred  degrees,  expands  in  the  distilling  column,  where  it  is  separated 
into  the  fractions:  power  gas  (1%  of  the  total  quantity),  light  petrol  (5%)  and  petrol 
(10%).  The  remaining  82%  of  the  original  quantity  is  again  passed  through  the  tube 
still,  is  reheated  to  a  high  temperature,  and  is  passed  to  a  distilling  column  in  which 
a  vacuum  is  applied,  because  the  distillation  temperature  can  be  kept  considerably 
lower  when  the  vacuum  is  employed.  In  this  second  column  20%  of  the  original 
quantity  of  crude  oil  is  split  up  into  petrol,  15%  into  fuel  oils  and  20%  into  lubricating 
oil.  The  residue,  about  27%,  provides  tar,  pitch  and  coke  or  undergoes  further 
processing  whereby,  in  some  cases,  more  petrol  is  produced.  However,  such  petrol 
is  more  properly  to  be  regarded  as  synthetic  petrol.  The  various  petrol  fractions  are 
mixed  and  refined ;  the  composition  of  the  mixture  depends  on  the  time  of  year  (in 
the  winter  the  proportion  of  light  petrol  in  the  mixture  is  higher  than  in  the  summer). 
"Refinement"  involves  various  processing  treatments  whereby  the  quality  of  the 
petrol  as  a  motor  fuel  is  improved,  e.g.,  it  comprises  the  admixture  of  aromatic 
compounds,  anti-knock  agents,  anti-oxidants  (ageing  inhibitors),  etc.  The  final 
result  must  be  a  volatile  fuel  which  must,  among  other  properties,  have  a  minimum 
octane  number  of  80  to  90,  ignites  easily,  does  not  gasify  at  room  temperature,  does 
not  develop  "gumming",  does  not  smell  objectionably,  and  burns  without  residue. 
Such  a  mixture  of  substances  is  of  extremely  complex  composition,  comprising  over 
two  hundred  individual  constituents. 


46 


pipeline 


Cologne 


iooo/0  98%        heat 

exchanger 


Naples 


despatch  for 
further  processing 


supply  tank 


47 


SYNTHETIC  PETROL  (GASOLINE) 

^  In  some  countries  without  petroleum  resources  of  their  own  the  production  of 
"synthetic"  petrol  from  coal  or  from  gases  containing  carbon  is  of  considerable 
importance.  But  even  in  countries  which  are  well  supplied  with  petroleum,  a  certain 
amount  of  synthetic  petrol  is  usually  added  to  the  natural  product.  Synthetic  petrol 
is  manufactured  either  from  coal  or  from  natural  gas  or  from  petroleum  fractions 
In  the  last-mentioned  case  the  designation  "synthetic"  is  appropriate  only  if  the 
initial  substance  is  gaseous  or  of  low  volatility.  Crude  oil  residues  and  other  residues 
rich  in  carbon  can  be  converted  into  petrol.  Such  petrol,  too,  can  be  called  synthetic 

Petrol  is  a  high-energy  mixture  of  hydrocarbons  consisting  of  molecules  containing 
5  to  12  carbon  atoms  and  12  to  26  hydrogen  atoms. 

Coal  contains  only  very  little  hydrogen.  To  convert  it  into  petrol  it  is  therefore 
necessary  to  introduce  hydrogen  into  the  compounds.  This  is  done  under  high 
pressure  and  temperature  and  in  the  presence  of  active  catalysts.  A  great  deal  of 
petrol  used  to  be  produced  by  so-called  catalytic  high  pressure  hydration  In  that 
process  it  took  4  tons  of  coal  to  produce  1  ton  of  petrol,  pressures  up  to  700  atm 
and  temperatures  of  410<M60oC  being  employed.  The  coal  was  dried,  pulverised 

™  ™J!  Wlth  heavy  0l1  to  form  a  thick  slurry-  Catalysts  were  added,  and  about 
70,000  cu.  ft.  of  hydrogen  gas  per  ton  of  coal  was  forced  in.  The  hydrogen  was  pro- 
duced from  coal  and  water,  the  carbon  monoxide  formed  in  this  process  being  utilised 
as  fuel  gas  or  converted.  Synthetic  petrol  is  also  manufactured  from  water  and  coal 
by  a  process  in  which  carbon  monoxide  and  hydrogen  are  produced  from  coke  raw 
brown  coal  or  brown  coal  briquettes  and,  after  careful  cleaning,  are  passed  'over 
catalysts  at  low  pressure.  Solid  hydrocarbons,  in  addition  to  petrol  and  other  pro- 
ducts, are  formed  in  this  process.  In  a  more  recently  developed  process  gases 
containing  carbon  monoxide  are  conducted,  together  with  water,  over  suitable 
catalysts.  The  resulting  reactions  produce  petrol,  as  well  as  acids,  alcohols  and  other 
substances.  Also,  petrol  is  produced  from  unsaturated  hydrocarbon  gases  with  the 
aid  of  catalysts.  However,  since  such  synthetic  petrols  are  more  expensive  to  produce 
than  petrols  from  petroleum,  in  Western  Europe  synthetic  petrol  is  nowadays  of 
importance  only  as  an  additive  for  natural  petrols  so  as  to  adjust  their  properties 
to  meet  the  exacting  requirements  of  modern  internal  combustion  engines  For  this 
purpose,  synthetic  petrols  having  a  high  octane  number  (a  criterion  for  the  anti- 
knock properties)  are  particularly  valuable. 


48 


gases 


■M i  •  mi  •  ••<»  •  ■.*•• 


ft  1  petrol] 


(gasoline) 
distillation 


force  pump 


coal-oil-catalyst  slurry |j: 


49 


STEAM    BOILERS 

In  industrial  plants  where  large  quantities  of  high-pressure  steam  are  required 
for  a  wide  variety  of  purposes  the  steam  is  generated  in  boilers  at  pressures  of  about 
175-600 lb./in2.  (in  power  stations:  up  to  about  2400 lb./in2.). 

The  various  types  of  boiler  differ  fundamentally  in  the  method  whereby  the 
heat  of  the  furnace  and  flue  gases  causes  the  water  to  boil.  In  the  elementary  form 
of  "boiler",  the  domestic  kettle  (Fig.  1),  the  heat  of  the  flames  is  applied  to  the  bottom 
of  the  receptacle  containing  the  water.  In  a  simple  steam-generating  boiler  this  same 
principle  is  applied,  and  in  so-called  fire  tube  boilers  the  hot  furnace  gases  pass 
through  tubes  in  the  water  space  (fire  tubes).  The  advantage  of  this  type  of  boiler 
is  its  simple  operation.  On  the  other  hand,  their  steam-generating  efficiency  is 
relatively  low  because  of  the  limited  grate  area  and  the  slow  water  circulation.  Also, 
it  has  the  disadvantages  of  having  a  low  operating  pressure  and  taking  up  much 
space.  For  these  reasons  such  boilers  are  nowadays  used  only  in  locomotives  or  in 
installations  which  require  fairly  small  quantities  of  steam. 

Modern  high-efficiency  boilers,  capable  of  very  quickly  coping  with  high  peak 
loads,  are  of  the  water-tube  type.  In  such  boilers  the  water  is  evaporated  in  tubes 
which  are  arranged  inside  a  heated  chamber  in  which  they  are  exposed  to  the  radiant 
heat  of  the  flames  and  the  hot  flue  gases.  They  are  constructed  as  boilers  with  steeply 
inclined  water  tubes  (e.g.,  Stirling  boiler,  Fig.  2)  or  with  tubes  set  at  a  relatively  low 
inclination  (e.g.,  Babcock  and  Wilcox  boiler,  Fig.  3).  The  tubes  are  interconnected 
at  their  ends  by  so-called  headers,  which  are  usually  set  at  right  angles  to  the  tubes. 
The  boiler  feed-water,  preheated  by  the  flue  gases,  enters  the  upper  steam  drum  from 
where  it  flows  through  unheated  or  only  slightly  heated  tubes  to  the  lower  headers 
or  drums.  From  here  it  ascends  into  the  water  tubes,  in  which  it  is  evaporated  and  is 
returned  in  the  form  of  a  water-and-steam  mixture  to  the  upper  drum.  In  the  latter 
the  steam  is  separated  from  the  entrained  water  and  flows  through  the  superheater 
tubes,  which  are  heated  by  flue  gases  of  sufficiently  high  temperature.  The  steam 
then  flows  to  the  consumer  equipment.  The  separated  water,  together  with  additional 
water,  flows  back  to  the  lower  headers  or  drums,  and  the  cycle  is  repeated. 

The  boilers  referred  to  here  are  heated  with  coal  or  oil.  A  coal-fired  boiler  is  usually 
provided  with  a  so-called  mechanical  stoker,  a  frequently  employed  form  of  which  is 
the  chain  grate  (Fig.  4).  This  device  consists  of  a  slowly  moving  endless  chain  of 
grate  bars.  The  coal  fed  on  to  one  end  of  the  grate  is  burned  in  the  furnace.  The 
residual  matter,  slag  and  ash  fall  off  the  other  end  of  the  chain  into  the  ashpit.  To 
control  the  combustion  process,  air  is  blown  from  below  through  the  grate.  In  other 
types  of  firing  system  pulverised  coal,  together  with  air,  is  blown  into  the  combustion 
chamber  of  the  furnace,  where  it  burns  at  temperatures  of  about  1800°  C.  Again, 
in  other  systems  finely  divided  ("atomised")  fuel  oil  is  sprayed  through  nozzles  into 
the  combustion  chamber.  The  latter  is  lined  with  refractory  material  (fireclay  brick), 
in  which  water  pipes  are  embedded.  These  absorb  the  radiant  heat,  protect  the  lining 
and,  in  addition,  produce  steam. 

Special  boilers  can  generate  high-pressure  steam  (150-350  lb./in2.).  In  such  boilers 
the  water  is  circulated  by  pumping  (forced-circulation  boilers,  Fig.  5),  whereby  the 
quantity  of  water  circulated  is  six  or  seven  times  as  large  as  that  corresponding  to 
the  evaporative  capacity.  Alternatively,  the  water  is  pumped  straight  through  the 
boiler  tubes  ("once-through"  or  flash  boiler,  Fig.  6). 


50 


steam 


top  header 


too  to  to 
Fig.   1      KETTLE 

steam 


superheater 
boiler  feed-water 
water  preheater 

bottom  header 
flue  gases 


water  tubes 
Fig.  2     STIRLING  BOILER 


water 


water  tubes 


flue  gases 
grate  firing 

Fig.  3     BABCOCK  &  WILCOX  BOILER 


steam 


air  grate  movement 

Fig.  4     CHAIN  GRATE  FIRING  SYSTEM 


steam 


steam 


..•»-    water 


-  flue  gases 
water  preheater 


firing 
Fig.  5     FORCED-CIRCULATION  BOILER 


water 
preheater 


water  firing  flue  gases 

Fig.  6     ONCE-THROUGH   BOILER 


51 


STEAM    ENGINE 

A  steam  engine  utilises  the  energy  contained  in  steam  under  high  pressure.  The  i 
energy  that  is  released  when  steam  expands  is  made  to  produce  rotary  motion  which 
can  be  used  for  the  driving  of  machinery.  The  steam  from  the  boiler  is  admitted  into 
the  cylinder  in  which  there  is  a  piston  and  in  which  the  steam  expands,  causing  the 
piston  to  move  (Fig.  la).  When  the  piston  has  travelled  to  the  end  of  the  cylinder 
and  thus  completed  its  stroke  (Fig.  lb),  the  now  expanded  steam  is  allowed  to  escape 
from  the  cylinder.  At  the  same  time  the  steam  is  changed  over,  live  steam  under 
pressure  being  admitted  to  the  other  side  of  the  piston,  causing  the  latter  to  travel 
back,  past  its  starting  point  (Fig.  lc),  until  it  has  reached  the  other  end  of  its  stroke 
(Fig.  Id).  A  steam  engine  of  this  kind  is  called  "double-acting"  because  the  force  of 
the  steam  is  applied  alternately  on  two  sides  of  the  piston.  While  the  piston  is  being 
forced  in  one  direction  by  the  expanding  steam,  the  spent  steam  is  pushed  out  of  the 
cylinder  on  the  other  side  of  the  piston.  Reversing,  i.e.,  the  change-over  of  the  steam 
supply  so  as  to  ensure  the  admission  of  live  steam  to  the  appropriate  side  of  the  piston 
and  the  discharge  of  the  spent  steam  on  the  other  side,  is  effected  automatically  by 
a  control  device  called  a  slide  valve.  On  some  steam  engines,  valves  are  similar  in 
principle  to  those  used  in  internal  combustion  engines.  The  commonest  type  is  the 
flat  slide  valve  (often  called  a  "D-slide  valve")  (Fig.  2).  It  alternately  covers  the  steam 
inlet  port  and  the  exhaust  port.  During  the  piston  movement  the  slide  valve  opens 
the  exhaust  port  for  the  escape  of  the  spent  steam  behind  the  piston  (Figs.  2a  and  2b). 
The  slide  valve  must  therefore  always  be  in  such  a  position  that  it  connects  the  working 
side  of  the  piston  to  the  live  steam  supply,  and  opens  the  exhaust  port  on  the  other 
side  to  enable  the  steam  to  escape  into  the  exhaust  channel.  The  valve  does  this  by 
moving  to-and-fro  at  the  same  rate  as  the  piston.  It  is  controlled  through  a  linkage 
system  from  the  crankshaft  in  such  a  manner  that  the  valve  moves  in  the  opposite 
direction  to  the  piston  (Fig.  3).  The  spent  steam  that  emerges  from  the  cylinder  is 
passed  to  a  condenser  where  it  is  cooled  and  thereby  precipitated  as  water.  In  some 
cases  (e.g.,  steam  locomotives)  it  is,  instead,  discharged  direct  into  the  atmosphere. 

The  term  "compound  steam  engine"  refers  to  an  engine  in  which  the  steam  is 
expanded  in  several  cylinders  (usually  three),  in  successive  stages.  As  a  rule,  all  three 
pistons  have  the  same  length  of  stroke,  since  they  drive  the  same  crankshaft.  However, 
as  the  volume  of  the  steam  increases  as  the  result  of  expansion,  i.e.,  when  its  pressure 
is  reduced,  the  second  (or  medium-pressure)  stage  has  a  larger  piston  diameter  than 
the  first  stage  (the  high-pressure  stage).  The  third  (or  low-pressure)  stage  has  a  piston 
of  still  larger  diameter  than  the  second  stage.  The  transmission  of  power  and  motion 
from  the  piston  to  the  crankshaft  is  effected  through  a  crosshead  (a  reciprocating 
block  sliding  between  guides)  which  forms  the  junction  piece  between  the  piston-rod 
and  the  connecting-rod.  One  end  of  the  latter  is  pivotably  connected  to  the  crosshead 
and  the  other  end  is  connected  to  the  circumference  of  a  wheel  or  to  a  crank  of  the 
crankshaft.  When  the  piston  and,  with  it,  the  piston  rod  and  crosshead  move  to-and 
fro,  the  crosshead  transmits  this  movement  to  the  crankshaft  or  wheel  and  thus 
produces  rotation.  One  end  of  the  crankshaft  is  provided  with  a  flywheel  to  ensure 
smooth  running,  free  from  jerkiness  due  to  the  reciprocating  motion  of  the  piston. 
Nowadays  steam  engines  are  used  only  in  cases  where  slow-running  machinery 
with  varying  power  requirements  has  to  be  driven,  e.g.,  for  winding  gear  in  coal 
mines,  ships'  propulsion  machinery,  rollers,  etc.  Even  the  best  steam  engines  have 
an  efficiency  of  only  15-18%  in  terms  of  utilisation  of  the  energy  contained  in  the 
coal. 


52 


Fig.   1      MODE  OF  OPERATION  OF  A  STEAM   ENGINE 
cylinder—- 


flywheel 


[ 


piston 

b 


\        piston  rod  cross-head 

'/////ma 


— i 


j 


®te 


^>=to 


'//////AT///. 


<ay 


Fig.  2     MODE  OF  OPERATION  OF  SLIDE  VALVE 
steam  inlet 


\  -  steam  outlet 


condenser  piston 

-^    condenser  outlet 


Fig.   3     VALVE  CONTROL  MECHANISM 

i.mn 

flywheel 


mm 't  tmm 


cross-head 


53 





STEAM   TURBINES 

In  a  steam  turbine  the  energy  in  steam  under  pressure  is  used  for  producing  a 
mechanical  rotary  motion  which  is  usually  employed  for  electric  power  generation. 
The  steam  is  discharged  in  the  form  of  a  high-velocity  jet  from  a  nozzle  and  impinges 
upon  blades  mounted  on  a  wheel,  whereby  the  latter  is  caused  to  rotate.  In  order 
to  convert  the  pressure  energy  of  the  steam  as  efficiently  as  possible  into  kinetic 
energy,  so-called  Laval  nozzles  are  employed  comprising  an  inlet  portion,  a  con- 
stricted throat  and  a  gradually  widening  outlet  (Fig.  1).  As  a  result  of  the  constriction 
of  the  passage  followed  by  the  widened  outlet  portion  (diffuser),  the  pressure  of  the 
steam  flowing  through  this  nozzle  is  converted  into  velocity.  The  higher  the  velocity 
of  the  steam  is,  the  larger  is  the  force  that  the  jet  of  steam  is  able  to  exert  upon  any 
obstacle  it  encounters.  Also,  it  very  much  depends  upon  how  much  the  steam  is 
thereby  deflected  from  its  original  path.  If  a  wheel  is  provided  with  a  set  of  blades 
which  deflect  the  steam  into  very  nearly  the  circumferential  direction  (Fig.  2),  then 
the  steam  will  exert  upon  the  wheel  a  force  in  the  circumferential  direction,  causing 
it  to  rotate  (Fig.  3).  In  order  to  achieve  the  fullest  possible  utilisation  of  the  energy 
contained  in  the  steam,  a  number  of  successive  stages  are  usually  arranged  one 
behind  the  other.  The  wheels  provided  with  blading  are  mounted  on  the  same  shaft 
and  therefore  all  revolve  at  the  same  speed.  The  rotating  assembly  as  a  whole  is  called 
the  rotor.  The  decrease  in  pressure  and  the  increase  in  diameter  of  the  successive 
blade  wheels  is  effected  in  definite  and  carefully  calculated  stages.  Theoretically  the 
entire  pressure  of  the  steam(e.g.,  1500  lb. /in.2  )can  be  expanded  to  atmospheric  pres- 
sure in  a  single  nozzle  and  be  converted  into  velocity.  In  that  case  the  blade  wheel 
would  have  to  revolve  at  a  very  high  circumferential  velocity  in  order  to  attain 
reasonable  efficiency.  Such  a  high  velocity  would,  however,  present  a  number  of 
technical  difficulties  and  involve  the  risk  of  destruction  of  the  machine  by  the  large 
centrifugal  forces  that  would  arise.  Turbines  embodying  the  utilisation  of  the  energy 
in  successive  stages  are  designed  according  to  various  alternative  principles : 

1 .  Velocity  staging:  In  this  arrangement  the  entire  steam  pressure  is,  indeed,  con- 
verted into  velocity  in  one  nozzle,  but  this  velocity  is  utilised  in  stages  in  a  number  of 
blade  rings  (rows  of  moving  blades  mounted  on  the  same  shaft  (Curtis  turbine,  Fig.  4). 

2.  Pressure  staging:  The  steam  is  expanded  in  a  nozzle,  and  the  resulting  velocity 
is  used  up  in  driving  a  blade  ring  mounted  behind  the  nozzle.  The  steam  then  passes 
through  guide  blading  which  functions  as  a  nozzle  and  in  which  the  steam  is  again 
expanded  a  little  and  the  velocity  used  for  driving  another  blade  ring  (Fig.  2).  This 
alternating  sequence  of  stationary  nozzles  and  rotating  blades  is  continued  until 
the  entire  steam  pressure  has  been  used  up.  The  same  quantity  of  steam  (in  terms  of 
weight)  flows  successively  through  all  the  blade  rings  that  make  up  the  turbine  rotor. 
However,  the  stage-by-stage  reduction  of  the  high  initial  pressure  of  the  steam  is 
associated  with  a  progressive  increase  in  volume,  and  for  this  reason  the  flow  sections 
between  the  blades  of  the  successive  rows  of  blading  must  become  correspondingly 
larger.  For  this  reason  the  blade  rings  at  the  end  of  the  turbine  are  of  larger  outside 
diameter  than  those  at  the  beginning  (impulse  turbines). 

3.  Reaction  staging:  In  this  system  the  pressure  is  converted  into  velocity  not 
only  in  nozzles  or  guide  blades,  but  also  in  the  blade  rings  of  the  rotor  (reaction 
turbines). 

Steam  turbines  can  also  be  classified  according  to  the  utilisation  of  the  steam 
pressure  drop.  For  instance,  a  condensing  turbine  (Fig.  5)  utilises  the  entire  available 
drop  from  high  pressure  to  the  vacuum  in  the  condenser;  a  back-pressure  turbine 
utilises  only  the  top  part,  whereas  an  exhaust-steam  turbine  utilises  only  the  bottom 
part  of  the  pressure  drop. 


54 


nozzle 
passage 


Fig.   1      LAVAL 

NOZZLE   {schematic) 


entrance  width 


guide  blades 
or  nozzles 


Fig.  2   DEFLECTION  OF  THE  STEAM  JET 
(pressure  staging) 


Fig.  3     DRIVE  OF  A  WHEEL  WITH 
ROTOR  BLADES  (schematic) 


circumferential  velocity 
of  rotor  > 


_  moving 
blades 


fixed 
blades 


moving 
blades 

1 


Fig.  4     DOUBLE-ROW 

CURTIS  TURBINE 
(velocity  staging) 


to  low-pressure  end 


live  steam 

igh-pressure  end 


Fig.  5     CONDENSING  TURBINE 


55 





GAS  TURBINES 

Gas  turbines  are  driven  by  the  combustion  gases  from  liquid  fuels.  In  construction 
and  operation  they  resemble  steam  turbines  (see  page  44)  in  that  a  flowing  medium 
with  a  high  energy  content — i.e.,  the  combustion  gases — produces  a  rotary  motion 
as  a  result  of  being  deflected  by  rings  of  blading  mounted  on  a  rotor.  The  operation 
of  a  gas  turbine  is  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  1 :  the  compressor  draws  in  fresh  air 
and  compresses  it  to  a  pressure  of  50-75  lb./in.2 ;  the  air  is  forced  by  the  compressor 
through  a  heat  exchanger  (the  regenerator)  where  it  is  preheated  by  the  heat  that 
is  still  present  in  the  exhaust  combustion  gases  emerging  from  the  turbine;  and 
finally  the  preheated  air  is  admitted  into  the  combustion  chamber.  In  this  chamber 
liquid  fuel  is  burned,  thereby  producing  gases  with  a  temperature  of  about  650°  C. 
These  combustion  gases  flow  at  high  velocity  into  the  turbine  and  drive  it. 

The  turbine  itself,  the  compressor,  and  the  electric  generator  are  all  mounted  on 
one  shaft.  The  turbine  cannot  transmit  its  entire  power  output  to  the  generator,  for 
a  substantial  proportion  is  needed  for  driving  the  compressor.  The  turbine  is  started 
with  the  aid  of  an  electric  motor  which  first  has  to  set  the  compressor  in  motion, 
in  order  to  produce  compressed  air  and  supply  it  to  the  combustion  chamber  so  as 
to  enable  the  combustion  gases  to  be  formed.  Only  then  can  the  turbine  start  running. 
Fig.  2  shows  the  main  features  of  a  gas  turbine.  The  most  familiar  form  of  gas 
turbine  is  the  jet  propulsion  engine  for  aircraft  (p.  292  vol.11).  This  is  a  particular 
specialised  form  of  turbine,  however.  Ordinary  gas  turbines  are  used  only  in  cases 
where  the  liquid  fuels  they  use  are  cheaper  than  coal. 

Another  type  of  gas  turbine  is  the  hot-air  turbine  (Fig.  3).  Here  the  rotary  is  pro- 
duced, not  by  combustion  gases,  but  by  air  which  is  heated  in  a  heat  exchanger  by 
the  hot  combustion  gases.  This  hot  air  recirculates  continuously,  i.e.,  it  is  drawn 
into  the  compressor  again  after  leaving  the  turbine.  However,  the  air  must  be  cooled 
before  entering  the  compressor,  otherwise  the  blading  of  the  latter  would  soon  be 
destroyed  as  a  result  of  operating  at  excessively  high  temperatures. 


56 


cooled  expanded 
exhaust  gases    \ 


i- 


compressed  hot  air  I    fuel 


tf 


combustion 
chamber 


starter  motor 

-+- 


compressed  cold  air  — 4 [j 

heat  exchanger  H 

o.    0 


generator 


combustion  gases,  still 
hot,  but  expanded 


hd4 


compressor 


1 


hot  combustion  gases 
at  high  pressure 


Fig.  1     GAS  TURBINE  (schematic) 


U 


cold  air  intake 


turbine 


exhaust  gases 


heat  exchanger  chamber 


combustion 


generator 


<_» 


^<Mnffl$BBfy 


starter  motor  , 

Fig.  2     GAS  TURBINE 


air,  expanded,  but 
still  hot 


compressor 


^  r 


BHrrlJ 


compressed  hot  air 


air  heater 


combustion  air 
is  preheated 


exhaust 


exhaust  gases 


compressor         T 


Fig.  3     HOT-AIR  TURBINE  cooled  air 


compressed  air 


57 


Gas- turbine,  built  by  Brown-Boveri,  Baden,  Switzerland 
Photo  Roland  Schneider,  Len  Sirman  Press 


Lrf* 


T 


1 


b 


ft*ft//,„ 


Ht 


tt 

Hit 


'■'"ft 

/J  A/ A 


4 


tt///// 

J"}/// 

it///// 
1 1  ///ft 

•  //, 

4*/ ft 
If  ft 


,11 


r 


WATER  TURBINES   (PELTON) 

In  water  turbines  the  kinetic  energy  of  flowing  or  falling  water  is  converted  into 
mechanical  rotary  motion. 

The  oldest  form  of  "water  turbine"  is  the  water  wheel.  The  natural  head — 
difference  in  water  level — of  a  stream  is  utilised  to  drive  it.  In  its  conventional  form 
the  water  wheel  is  made  of  wood  and  is  provided  with  buckets  or  vanes  round  the 
periphery.  The  water  thrusts  against  these,  causing  the  wheel  to  rotate.  The  latter 
drives  the  millstones  (or  sometimes  other  machinery).  In  the  case  of  an  "overshot 
wheel"  the  water  pours  on  to  the  buckets  from  above.  If  the  water  thrusts  against 
the  vanes  on  the  underside  of  the  water  wheel,  as  in  Fig.  1,  it  is  called  an  "undershot 
wheel".  The  principle  of  the  old  water  wheel  is  embodied  in  the  modern  Pelton 
wheel  (Fig.  2),  which  consists  of  a  wheel  provided  with  spoon-shaped  buckets  round 
the  periphery  (Fig.  3).  A  high-velocity  jet  of  water  emerging  from  a  nozzle  impinges 
on  the  buckets  and  sets  the  wheel  in  motion.  The  speed  of  rotation  is  determined  by 
the  flow  rate  and  the  velocity  of  the  water;  it  is  controlled  by  means  of  a  needle  in 
the  nozzle  (the  turbine  operates  most  efficiently  when  the  wheel  rotates  at  half  the 
velocity  of  the  jet).  If  the  load  on  the  wheel  suddenly  decreases,  the  jet  deflectors 
partially  divert  the  jet  issuing  from  the  nozzle  until  the  jet  needle  has  appropriately 
reduced  the  flow  (Fig.  4).  This  arrangement  is  necessary  because  if,  in  the  event  of 
sudden  load  decrease,  the  jet  needle  were  suddenly  closed,  the  flow  of  water  would 
be  reduced  too  abruptly,  causing  harmful  "water  hammer"  phenomena  in  the  water 
system.  In  most  cases  the  control  of  the  deflector  is  linked  to  an  electric  generator. 

A  Pelton  wheel  is  used  in  cases  where  large  heads  of  water  are  available.  The  water 
is  discharged  from  the  high-level  reservoir  through  pipes  to  the  turbine. 


60 


control  linkage 


|.  2     TWO-NOZZLE 
PELTON  WHEEL 


j.  3     NOZZLE  AND  BUCKET 
OF  A  PELTON  WHEEL 


bucket 


Fig.  4     CONTROL  OF  THE  JET 
OF  A  PELTON  WHEEL 


a    full  load 


b   deflector  diverts 
part  of  the  jet 


c  needle  reduces 
water  flow 


61 


WATER  TURBINES   (FRANCIS,   KAPLAN) 

In  the  great  majority  of  cases  (large  and  small  water  flow  rates  and  heads)  the 
type  of  turbine  employed  is  the  Francis  or  radial-flow  turbine.  The  significant 
difference  in  relation  to  the  Pelton  wheel  is  the  water  is  diverted  inside  the  turbine. 
This  diversion  takes  place  at  right  angles  to  the  direction  of  entry  (Fig.  1),  causing 
the  runner — the  turbine  rotor — to  spin  round.  The  water  first  enters  the  volute, 
which  is  an  annular  channel  surrounding  the  runner,  and  then  flows  between  the 
fixed  guide  vanes,  which  give  the  water  the  optimum  direction  of  flow.  It  then  enters 
the  runner  and  flows  radially  through  the  latter,  i.e.,  towards  the  centre.  The  runner 
is  provided  with  curved  vanes  upon  which  the  water  impinges.  The  guide  vanes 
are  so  arranged  that  the  energy  of  the  water  is  largely  converted  into  rotary  motion 
and  is  not  consumed  by  eddies  and  other  undesirable  flow  phenomena  causing  energy 
losses.  The  guide  vanes  are  usually  adjustable  so  as  to  provide  a  degree  of  adaptability 
to  variations  in  the  water  flow  rate  and  in  the  load  of  the  turbine. 

The  guide  vanes  in  the  Francis  turbine  are  the  elements  that  direct  the  flow  of 
the  water,  just  as  the  nozzle  of  the  Pelton  wheel  does.  The  water  is  discharged  through 
an  outlet  from  the  centre  of  the  turbine.  The  main  features  of  a  water  turbine  of  this 
type  are  illustrated  schematically  in  Fig.  1.  The  volute,  guide  vanes  and  runner  are 
shown  in  Fig.  la.  The  diversion  of  the  water  at  right  angles  to  its  direction  of  entry 
is  clearly  indicated  in  Fig.  lb,  which  is  a  cross-section  through  the  turbine. 

For  very  low  heads  and  high  flow  rates— e.g.,  at  barrages'  in  rivers— a  different 
type  of  turbine,  the  Kaplan  or  propeller  turbine  is  usually  employed.  It  is  rather  like 
the  propeller  of  a  ship  operating  in  reverse :  the  ship's  propeller  rotates  and  thrusts 
the  water  away  behind  it,  thus  causing  the  ship  to  move  forward  (p. 276, vol. II),  in 
the  Kaplan  turbine  the  water  flows  through  the  propeller  and  sets  the  latter  in  rotation. 
The  water  enters  the  turbine  laterally  (Fig.  2),  is  deflected  by  the  guide  vanes,  and 
flows  axially  through  the  propeller.  For  this  reason,  these  machines  are  referred  to 
as  axial-flow  turbines.  The  flow  rate  of  the  water  through  the  turbine  can  be  controlled 
by  varying  the  distance  between  the  guide  vanes ;  the  pitch  of  the  propeller  blades 
must  then  also  be  appropriately  adjusted  (Fig.  3).  Each  setting  of  the  guide  vanes 
corresponds  to  one  particular  setting  of  the  propeller  blades  in  order  to  obtain  high 
efficiency. 

The  runner  of  a  water  turbine  drives  a  shaft  which  is  coupled,  directly  or  through 
gearing,  to  an  electric  generator  (see  page  78). 

1.  Dams  in  U.S.A. 


62 


Fig.   la 

FRANCIS  TURBINE,  SIDE  VIEW 

(schematic) 


water  outlet 


volute 


runner  vanes 


guide  vanes 


water  inlet 


guide  vanes 


volute 


Fig.   lb     SECTION  THROUGH  A 
FRANCIS  TURBINE 

water  inlet 


volute 


Fig.  2     KAPLAN  TURBINE     %&^^Sy 
(schematic) 


blade  setting  for 
low  output 


Fig.  3     PROPELLER  OF  KAPLAN  TURBINE 


63 


Water  turbine  in  Swiss  hydro-electricity  station 

Photo  CFF 


_  _ 


5s 


\ 


FUEL  CELL 

A  fuel  cell  is  a  device  in  which  the  energy  released  in  the  oxidation  of  a  conventional 
fuel  is  made  directly  available  in  the  form  of  an  electric  current.  It  thus  avoids  the 
wasteful  detour  of  the  conventional  thermal  power  stations,  i.e.,  the  generation  of 
electricity  via  the  "inferior"  thermal  energy.  Although  the  principle  of  the  fuel  cell 
was  formulated  by  W.  Ostwald  as  long  ago  as  1894,  it  is  only  in  recent  years  that 
some  success  has  been  achieved  in  the  construction  of  efficient  cells  of  this  kind.  In 
the  fuel  cell  constructed  by  Baurand  Ehrenberg  in  1911  (Fig.  1)  a  carbon  rod  serves 
as  the  fuel.  It  functions  as  the  anode,  introducing  C+  +  +  +  ions  into  the  solution. 
This  necessitates  an  operating  temperature  of  1000°-1100°C.  The  electrolyte  is 
molten  soda.  The  cathode,  consisting  of  molten  silver,  forms  0 "  "  ions  from  the 
oxygen  that  is  continuously  injected.  According  to  the  equation  C+  +  +  +  +20" 
=  C02,  the  reaction  product  obtained  is  carbon  dioxide,  just  as  in  ordinary  com- 
bustion. For  every  carbon  atom  that  is  converted,  four  electrons  are  given  off  to  the 
carbon  rod  and  four  electrons  are  withdrawn  from  the  oxygen  electrode.  These 
electrons  can  produce  a  current  in  an  external  circuit.  According  to  this  conception, 
a  coal-burning  stove  is  an  internally  short-circuited  fuel  cell.  The  major  disadvantage 
of  the  fuel  cell  described  above  is  the  high  temperature  and,  consequently,  the  very 
short  service  life  of  the  materials  employed.  Less  severe  conditions  can  be  achieved 
by  using  gases  (hydrogen,  in  particular)  as  the  fuel.  Thus,  the  Bacon  fuel  cell  (H202 
cell)  (Fig.  2)  produces  current  densities  of  up  to  about  6^  amp./in.2  at  a  temperature 
of  240°  C.  The  pressure  of  the  aqueous  electrolytes  does,  however,  rise  to  1000 
lb./in.2  and  upwards.  The  ionisation  of  the  gas  fed  to  the  cell  is  effected  at  diffusion 
electrodes  of  nickel.  These  are  porous  sintered  components  which  on  one  side  are 
connected  to  the  gas  supply  and  on  the  other  side  are  in  contact  with  the  electrolyte. 
The  active  region  is  at  the  boundary  of  the  three  phases  gas/electrode/electrolyte. 
To  make  this  boundary  as  long  as  possible,  all  the  pores  must  have  the  same  optimum 
diameter,  as  is  clarified  by  Fig.  3  (principle  of  homoporosity).  In  order  completely 
to  obviate  the  passage  of  unutilised  gas  through  the  pores,  each  electrode  is  provided 
with  a  fine-pored  cover  layer  (double-layer  electrode).  As  a  result  of  the  high  catalytic 
activity  of  the  electrodes  employed,  the  cell  can  operate  already  at  room  temperature. 
The  H202  cell  designed  by  Justi  and  Winsel  (Fig.  4),  which  is  known  as  the  dissolved 
fuel  cell,  also  operates  at  ordinary  temperatures.  In  this  cell  the  oxygen  electrodes 
contain  Raney  silver  and  the  hydrogen  electrodes  contain  Raney  nickel  as  the  catalyst. 
Already  at  temperatures  below  100°C  (and  at  atmospheric  pressure,  too!)  this  cell 
attains  current  density  values  almost  as  high  as  those  of  the  Bacon  cell.  The  funda- 
mental voltage  is  over  90%  of  the  theoretically  attainable  voltage  of  1.23  volt.  The 
electrodes  employed  are  described  as  "double-skeleton  catalyst  electrodes".  Because 
of  their  great  catalytic  activity,  they  are  able  to  dehydrate  liquid  organic  fuels  (e.g., 
methanol).  This  results  in  the  relatively  simple  constructional  features  of  the  dissolved 
fuel  cell  (Fig.  5).  The  alcohol  serving  as  fuel  is  mixed  with  the  electrolyte  (potassium 
hydroxide  solution). 


66 


carbon  rod 
as  anode^ 


soda  as 
electrolyte 


oxygen  = 


»  heating  coil 


silver 


Fig.   1      HIGH-TEMPERATURE  CELL  ACCORDING 
TO  BAUR  AND  EHRENBERG 


jlectrolyte  (37%  caustic 
lution) 

electrode 


hydrogen 


gas  circulation 
pump 

reaction  water 


Fig.  2     HIGH-PRESSURE  CELL  WITH 

POROUS  NICKEL  ELECTRODES 
ACCORDING  TO  F.  T.   BACON 


pore  diameter  too  large 

.  w, 

%:gas^ 

correct  diameter  f 

oxygen  02 

% 

diameter  too  small 

porous  carbon 
cylinder 


porous  nickel 
cylinder 


Fig.  3     GAS  DIFFUSION   ELECTRODE  WITH 
PORES  OF  DIFFERENT  WIDTHS 


Fig.  4    H?0,  CELL  ACCORDING  TO 
JUSTI  AND  WINSEL 


Fig.  5     DISSOLVED  FUEL  CELL  ACCORDING 
TO  JUSTI  AND  WINSEL 

(catalytic  dehydrogenation  of 
fuel  dissolved  in  the  electrolyte) 


67 


02  electrode 


caustic  potash  solution 
and  alcohol 


NUCLEAR   REACTOR 

The  nuclear  reactor  serves  to  convert  nuclear  energy  (atomic  energy)  into  thermal 
energy.  The  nuclei  of  atoms  consist,  broadly  speaking,  of  the  elementary  particles 
named  protons  and  neutrons.  The  protons  have  a  positive  electric  charge,  whereas 
the  neutrons  have  no  charge,  i.e.,  they  are  electrically  neutral.  Very  powerful  forces 
of  attraction  act  between  these  particles  (collectively  referred  to  as  "nucleons")  and 
hold  them  together  in  the  nucleus.  Heavy  atomic  nuclei  are,  however,  not  so  stable 
as  light  ones,  because  in  the  former  the  repulsive  forces  exerted  by  the  protons 
loosen  the  structure  of  the  nucleus.  For  this  reason  it  is  possible  to  cause  fission  of 
heavy  nuclei — such  as  those  of  uranium  235— by  bombarding  them  with  free 
neutrons.  In  Fig.  1  a  neutron  is  shown  hitting  a  nucleus  of  uranium  235.  The  latter 
is  set  vibrating  as  a  result  of  this  impact,  and  these  vibrations  may  become  so  violent 
that  the  nucleus  is  split  up  into  several  parts,  e.g.,  into  a  barium  and  a  krypton 
nucleus.  The  "fission  products"  travel  at  considerable  velocity,  collide  with  matter 
somewhere  in  the  reactor,  and  give  off  their  kinetic  energy  as  heat.  This  is  the  con- 
version of  nuclear  energy  into  heat.  In  addition  to  the  fission  products  and  heat 
formed  in  the  fission  of  uranium,  however,  two  fresh  neutrons  are  also  formed, 
which  in  turn  can  cause  the  fission  of  more  uranium  atoms.  In  this  way  the  chain 
reaction  is  initiated;  this  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  2:  the  neutron  coming  from  the  left 
strikes  the  U  235  nucleus  and  briefly  forms  the  intermediate  product  U  236,  which 
disintegrates  spontaneously  into  strontium  and  xenon.  Three  neutrons  are  released 
in  this  fission  process.  In  order  to  be  able  to  utilise  these  neutrons,  which  are  emitted 
from  the  parent  nucleus  at  high  velocity,  for  further  fissile  processes,  they  have  to 
be  slowed  down  ("moderated").  Low-velocity  neutrons  are  much  better  suited  to  split 
atoms  than  high-velocity  neutrons  are.  The  slower  neutrons  can  interact  with  the 
uranium  nucleus  for  a  greater  length  of  time,  whereas  faster  neutrons  are  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  nucleus  for  too  short  a  time  to  initiate  the  fission  process.  The  velocity 
of  the  neutrons  is  moderated  by  causing  them  to  collide  with  light  atoms,  large 
numbers  of  which  must  be  incorporated  in  the  reactor  for  this  purpose.  Materials 
consisting  of  such  light  atoms  are,  for  example,  graphite  and  water.  The  neutrons 
which  have  been  slowed  down  in  this  way  will  then  cause  fission  of  further  U  235 
nuclei.  Each  fission  process  gives  birth  to  fresh  electrons,  so  that  the  chain  reaction 
is  self-sustaining  and  the  reactor  is  consequently  kept  in  operation. 

Fig.  3  is  a  schematic  illustration  of  a  nuclear  reactor — in  this  case  a  water- 
moderated  reactor.  The  actual  reactor  core  is  shown  on  the  left.  The  uranium  is 
installed  in  the  form  of  metallic  rods  in  a  vessel  filled  with  water.  The  fission  takes 
place  within  the  uranium.  The  neutrons  which  are  released  in  the  process  are  diffused 
through  the  uranium  and  into  the  surrounding  water,  where  they  collide  with  the 
light  hydrogen  and  oxygen  atoms  and  are  moderated,  i.e.,  they  lose  velocity. 

These  slowed-down  neutrons  re-enter  the  uranium  rods  with  a  certain  probability 
and  they  there  cause  fresh  fission  reactions  to  take  place.  The  fission  products 
formed  as  a  result  of  these  give  off  their  energy  to  the  uranium,  which  in  turn 
transmits  it  to  the  water.  The  latter  is  circulated  by  a  pump  through  a  heat  exchanger, 
in  which  it  transfers  the  heat  to  a  secondary  thermal  circuit.  To  ensure  that  the 
reactor  will  not  stop  functioning  nor  become  excessively  overheated,  the  rate  of 
neutron  formation  inside  it  has  to  be  controlled  with  considerable  accuracy.  This 
is  done  by  means  of  the  control  rods,  which  consist  of  a  neutron-absorbing  material 
and  which  are  inserted  into  the  reactor  core  to  an  accurately  variable  depth.  This 
depth  of  penetration  must  be  just  enough  to  ensure  that,  on  an  average,  per  fission 
only  one  neutron  remains  available  to  produce  another  fission  reaction.  Since  the 
fission  products  are  highly  radioactive,  the  reactor  must  be  enclosed  in  a  thick 
casing  of  concrete  called  the  "shield".  In  the  so-called  boiling  water  reactor  (Fig.  4) 
the  water  is  allowed  to  evaporate  inside  the  reactor  itself,  the  steam  being  utilised  in 
the  primary  circuit ;  in  principle,  no  heat  exchanger  is  needed. 


68 


barium 


neutron  f^\ 

"P 

U  235  nucleus 


qg 

{J     krypton 


neutrons 


Fig.   1      FISSION  OF  A  URANIUM  235  NUCLEUS 
BY  A  NEUTRON 


="-0-0-0 


strontium 


o 


U  235 


^ 


U236        V-/ 

unstable,  disintegrates      v-^ 
,  xenon 

spontaneously 


ig.  2     CHAIN   REACTION  AND 

MODERATION  OF  NEUTRONS 


control  rods 


uranium  rods 
water 


shield 


moderation 


turbine 


generator 


condenser 


secondary  circulation  pump 


Fig.  3     WATER-MODERATED  REACTOR 
(schematic) 


uranium 
rods 


Fig.  4     BOILING  WATER  REACTOR 

(schematic) 


69 


ELECTROSTATICS   I 

Matter  is  composed  of  neutral  atoms.  The  electrical  neutrality  of  the  atoms  is  due 
to  the  fact  that  the  positive  charge  of  the  nucleus  of  the  atom  is  compensated  by  the 
negative  charge  of  the  electrons  that  surround  it.  The  outermost  electron  may 
either  be  only  loosely  connected  to  the  rest  of  the  atom  (Fig.  la)  or  be  more  firmly 
embedded  in  it  (Fig.  lb).  Atoms  of  the  first  type  tend  to  part  with  electrons  to  adjacent 
atoms,  while  those  of  the  second  type  tend  to  tear  electrons  away  from  adjacent 
atoms.  It  is  because  of  this  phenomenon  that,  for  example,  glass  becomes  positively 
charged  when  it  is  rubbed  with  a  silk  cloth  (Fig.  2a),  whereas  ebonite  acquires  a 
negative  charge  on  being  rubbed  with  a  woollen  cloth  (Fig.  2b).  If  two  small  balls, 
suspended  pendulum  wise,  are  given  electric  charges  of  the  same  sign  (e.g.,  by  touch- 
ing each  ball  with  a  glass  or  ebonite  rod  charged  by  friction  in  the  manner  described), 
they  will  be  pushed  some  distance  apart  by  the  mutually  repellent  force  exerted  by 
the  two  similarly  charged  balls,  as  in  Figs.  3a  and  3b.  On  the  other  hand  two  oppositely 
charged  balls  will  attract  each  other,  as  in  Fig.  3c,  and  when  they  come  into  contact, 
their  charges  will  neutralise  each  other.  A  positive  charge  means  that  there  is  a 
deficiency  of  electrons ;  a  negative  charge  means  that  there  is  a  surplus  of  electrons 
in  relation  to  the  neutral  condition  of  the  atoms.  Electrons  are  the  elementary 
particles  of  electricity.  Each  electron  has  a  charge  e  =  1.602  x  1(T19  Coulomb,  a 
rest  mass  m0  =  0.9108  x  10-27  grammes,  and  a  radius  of  2.82  x  10" 13  cm. 

Since  similar  charges  repel  each  other,  the  electrons  so  arrange  themselves  at  the 
surface  of  an  electrical  conductor  (e.g.,  a  metal  ball)  that  the  space  inside  it  contains 
no  charge  and  is  thus  entirely  free  from  electrical  forces  (Figs.  4a  and  4b).  When  a 
charged  conductor  is  brought  near  an  uncharged  (neutral)  one,  a  separation  of 
charges  is  induced  on  the  latter  (Fig.  5a).  If  the  first  conductor  has  a  positive  charge, 
then  the  initially  neutral  conductor  will  become  negatively  charged  on  the  side 
facing  the  positive  conductor,  while  the  other  side  will  acquire  a  positive  charge 
of  the  same  magnitude.  This  positive  charge  can  be  discharged  to  the  earth  (Fig.  5b), 
and  the  second,  initially  neutral  conductor  will  then  remain  negatively  charged 
(Fig.  5c).  This  method  of  charging  is  known  as  electrostatic  induction.  The  repulsion 
of  similar  charges  may  produce  repellent  forces  of  considerable  magnitude  at  pointed 
extremities,  where  the  electrons  become  concentrated  and  are  actually  discharged 
from  the  conductor  (Fig.  6),  so  that  they  can,  as  it  were,  be  sprayed  on  to  a  neutral 
conductor,  which  in  turn  will  acquire  a  charge  of  the  same  sign  (in  this  case  negative) 
as  that  of  the  first  conductor. 


70 


fig.  1 

BOND  OF  ELECTRON  TO  ATOM 


a)  loose 


b)  firm 


a)  positive 


Fig.   2      FRICTIONAl   ELECTRICITY 


b)  negative 


opposite  signs 


Fig.  3     FORCES  EXERTED  UPON 

ELECTRICALLY  CHARGED   BALLS 


:ig.  4  | 

HSTRIBUTION  OF  CHARGE 
>N  THE  SURFACE 


%MS  ■ 


a)  separation  of  charges 


mM 


f  b)  discharge  of 

repelled  charges 


Fig.   5     ELECTROSTATIC   INDUCTION 


c)   inductive  charge 

,+  +  -t-+        _-~s- 

QrQ- 


Fig.  6     POINT  EFFECT 


71 


ELECTROSTATICS   II 

The  Van  de  Graaff  generator  (Fig.  1)  makes  use  of  the  possibility  of  spraying  an 
electric  charge  from  sharp  points  of  a  conductor.  The  charge  is  thus  applied  to  a  belt 
conveyor  made  of  an  insulating  material,  which  conveys  the  charge  into  the  interior 
of  a  spherical  conductor  of  large  radius,  where  the  charge  is  collected  by  a  "comb" 
of  pointed  electrodes.  More  and  more  electricity  is  collected  in  this  way  from  the 
travelling  belt  and  is  accumulated  at  the  surface  of  the  large  sphere,  which  thus 
acquires  a  very  high  charge.  The  power  output  from  this  electrostatic  generator  is 
not  very  large,  for  the  charge  accumulated  by  this  method  cannot  sustain  a  current 
of  any  significant  magnitude.  On  the  other  hand,  very  high  voltages  can  be  obtained 
(of  the  order  of  some  millions  of  volts).  The  voltage  can  be  further  increased  by 
installing  the  generator  in  an  enclosed  space  in  which  the  air  pressure  is  increased 
above  the  normal  atmospheric  pressure,  so  that  the  spark-over  voltage  to  earthed 
components  is  increased.  The  amount  of  electric  charge  that  can  be  stored  up  in  a 
body  is  called  the  capacity  of  that  body.  A  condenser  (or  capacitor)  is  a  device 
specifically  intended  to  store  up  an  electrical  charge.  Its  capacity  is  determined 
mainly  by  the  action  of  electrostatic  induction.  It  consists  essentially  of  two  conduct- 
ing surfaces  (plates)  which  are  insulated  from  each  other  (Fig.  2a).  In  the  case  of  a 
variable  condenser  the  area  (F)  of  these  surfaces  and/or  their  distance  apart  {dv,  d2) 
can  be  varied.  Obviously,  the  quantity  of  electricity  that  can  be  stored  up  by  induction 
will  be  greater  according  as  F  is  larger  and  the  gap  d  between  the  condenser  plates 
is  smaller.  The  capacity  of  a  plate  condenser  is  therefore  proportional  to  F  and 
inversely  proportional  to  d.  High-capacity  condensers  are  composed  of  "plates" 
consisting  of  rolled-up  thin  metal  foils  separated  by  sheets  of  paper  as  the  insulating 
medium.  The  capacity  of  a  condenser  may  be  compared  with  the  cubic  capacity 
of  a  tank,  which  depends  on  the  area  of  the  bottom  and  on  the  height  (Fig.  2b). 
If  a  small  ball  pendulum  is  attached  to  a  conductor  and  the  latter  is  charged  with 
electricity,  the  pendulum  will  acquire  a  deflection  (due  to  electrical  repulsion) 
which  is  proportional  to  the  magnitude  of  the  charge  (Fig.  3a).  There  is  an  analogy 
with  the  pressure  of  water  in  a  tank,  which  pressure  can  be  measured  by  means  of  a 
mercury  manometer  (or  pressure  gauge)  (Fig.  3b).  The  pressure  of  the  water  cor- 
responds to  the  electric  potential  or  voltage  (the  unit  of  measurement  being  the 
volt).  The  voltage  (U)  is  associated  with  the  electric  charge  Q  (measured  in  coulombs) 
and  the  capacity  C  of  a  conductor  (measured  in  farads)  by  the  following  relation : 
U  —  Q/C.  In  the  space  which  surrounds  an  electrically  charged  body  an  electric 
potential  occurs  which  is  proportional  to  the  charge  Q  and  inversely  proportional 
to  the  distance  r  from  the  centre  of  the  body  (U  %  Q/r).  The  electrical  condition 
produced  in  a  space  by  the  presence  of  electrically  charged  bodies  is  called  an 
electric  field  (Fig.  4).  Points  which  all  have  the  same  potential  (voltage)  are  located 
on  equipotential  surfaces.  Forces  always  act  in  the  direction  of  the  potential  gradient. 
The  electric  force  which  is  exerted  upon  a  charge  of  unit  magnitude  in  an  electric 
field  is  called  the  field  strength  (or  field  intensity).  It  is  always  directed  perpendicularly 
to  the  equipotential  surfaces.  The  lines  of  force  in  an  electric  field  represent  the  direc- 
tion of  the  force  at  any  point  on  their  length.  The  properties  of  an  electric  field  can 
be  described  in  terms  of  the  equipotential  surfaces  and  lines  of  force.  The  lines  of 
force  are  conceived  as  emerging  from  positive  charges  and  disappearing  into 
negative  charges. 


72 


Fig.   1      VAN  DE  GRAAFF  GENERATOR 


comb  for  collecting  the  charge 


comb  for  applying  the  charge 


I- aj -distances 

Fig.   2a      ELECTRIC  CAPACITY 


heights  of  liquid 

4- 


Fig.   2b     HYDRAULIC  CAPACITY 


Fig.  3a     ELECTRIC  VOLTAGE   U 


comparison  between  electrostatic  and 
hydrostatic  phenomena 


Fig.   3b      HYDROSTATIC   PRESSURE 
equipotential  surfaces 


Fig.  4     ELECTRIC   FIELD 


73 


ELECTRODYNAMICS 

If  two  electrostatically  charged  conductors  differing  in  potential  (t/,  >  V 2)  are 
interconnected  by  means  of  a  metal  wire,  charge  equalisation  in  the  form  of  an 
electric  current  will  occur  until  the  two  conductors  have  acquired  the  same  potential 
(Fig.  la).  This  process  is  comparable  to  the  flow  which  occurs  when  a  tank  containing 
a  liquid  is  connected  by  means  of  a  pipe  to  another  tank,  situated  at  lower  level,  so 
that  there  is  what  is  known  as  a  pressure  gradient  between  the  two  tanks  (Fig.  lb). 
To  obtain  a  sustained  flow  of  electricity  — i.e.,  an  electric  current  — it  is  necessary  to 
maintain  the  potential  difference  between  the  two  conductors.  In  the  case  of  the  Van 
de  Graaff  generator  (see  page  72)  this  is  achieved  by  the  continuous  input  of  electric 
charge  by  the  belt  conveyor  (Fig.  2a).  In  the  hydraulic  analogy  of  the  two  tanks  the 
same  effect  would  be  produced  by  a  pump  (or,  to  make  the  analogy  even  closer,  by  a 
bucket  elevator  which  raises  the  liquid  from  the  lower,  level  to  the  higher  level) 
(Fig.  2b).  However,  the  flow  or  electricity  differs  from  the  flow  of  a  liquid  in  that  it 
produces  a  magnetic  field  around  it.  The  relation  between  the  direction  of  current 
and  the  polarity  of  the  magnetic  field  is  conveniently  expressed  by  the  "corkscrew 
rule":  A  current  following  the  direction  of  twist  of  a  corkscrew  (clockwise  direction) 
produces  magnetic  lines  of  force  in  the  direction  of  its  thrust,  i.e.,  the  south  pole  faces 
the  observer.  Conversely,  if  a  current  flows  through  a  conductor  in  the  direction  of 
thrust  of  the  corkscrew,  the  direction  of  rotation  ("screwing-in"  direction)  corres- 
ponds to  the  direction  of  the  magnetic  lines  of  force  surrounding  that  conductor. 
The  presence  of  this  magnetic  field  can  be  demonstrated,  for  example,  by  the  deflec- 
tion of  a  compass  needle  (Fig.  3a).  The  effect  of  an  electric  current  flowing  through  a 
coil  of  wire  is  to  produce  a  magnetic  field  similar  to  that  of  a  bar  magnet  (Fig.  3b). 
The  magnetic  effect  of  a  coil  can  be  intensified  by  causing  the  magnetic  flux  (i.e.,  the 
lines  of  force  conceived  as  a  "flow"  from  one  pole  of  the  magnetic  to  the  other)  to 
pass  through  a  core  consisting  of  a  material  whose  magnetic  resistance  is  lower  than 
that  of  air.  The  most  suitable  substance  for  the  purpose  is  iron.  A  coil  provided  with 
an  iron  core  is  called  an  electromagnet  (Fig.  4a).  Frequently  two  electromagnets  are 
joined  together  by  a  yoke,  i.e.,  an  iron  bar  forming  a  magnetic  path  (Fig.  4b).  In  an 
arrangement  of  this  kind  the  two  coils  are  wound  in  opposite  directions  so  that  they 
have  a  free  north  pole  and  a  free  south  pole  respectively.  The  magnetic  lines  of  force 
are  conceived  as  flowing  from  the  north  pole  to  the  south  pole.  Magnetism  is  always 
associated  with  dipoles,  i.e.,  there  are  always  two  poles ;  there  are  no  free  positive  and 
negative  magnetic  charges  similar  to  electrostatic  charges. 

(Continued) 


74 


A  U  =  U,  -  Uj 

voltage  difference 


Fig.   la     ELECTRIC  CURRENT 


*\ f 


f_"l 


V  ^v      '    P  =  P,  -  P, 

\  \         pressure 
difference 


Uj     low  voltage 


Fig.    lb     FLOW  OF  A  LIQUID 


low  pressure     P2 


high  pressure 
P. 


2a     ELECTROSTATIC  GENERATOR 


comparison  between  electrodynamic  and 
hydrodynanv'  phenomena 


drive  motor 
centrifugal  pump 


Fig.  2b     HYDRAULIC 
GENERATOR 


magnetic  lines  of  fort 


Fig    3o     MAGNETIC   FIELD  OF  A  CONDUCTOR 


Fig.   3b     MAGNETIC  FIELD  OF  A  COIL 
(bar  magnet  for  comparison) 


(4^  current  I 


magnetic  field 


"N 


Fig.  4a     ELECTROMAGNET 


— s-*- 


Fig.  4b     TWO  ELECTROMAGNETS  JOINED 
BY   A  YOKE 
N  S 


nternal 
magnetic  field 


externol 
magnetic  fielc 


75 


ELECTRODYNAMICS 
(continued) 

The  phenomena  associated  with  the  flow  of  electricity  in  metallic  conductors  can 
be  explained  with  the  aid  of  the  interaction  of  the  elementary  electric  charge  of  the 
electron  with  the  atoms  of  the  metals.  For  convenience,  the  electrons  are  assumed  to 
have  a  spherical  shape.  A  metal  very  widely  employed  for  the  conduction  of  electricity 
is  copper.  It  has  a  crystalline  structure  (Fig.  1).  The  nucleus  of  the  copper  atom  con- 
tains 29  positive  elementary  charges,  which  are  neutralised  by  29  negatively  charged 
electrons.  The  29th  (outermost)  electron  is  only  very  loosely  connected  to  the  atomic 
nucleus.  Even  at  room  temperature  the  thermal  energy  is  great  enough  to  enable  the 
copper  atoms  to  perform  vibrations  about  their  position  of  rest  in  the  crystal  lattice. 
As  a  result,  these  loosely  connected  electrons  are,  as  it  were,  shaken  off  and  thus 
become  available  as  free  carriers  of  negative  electric  charge  for  the  conduction  of 
electricity.  These  electrons  are  "quasi-free",  i.e.,  they  are  repeatedly  captured  and 
released  again.  In  the  crystal  lattice  they  behave  rather  like  a  gas  in  a  container; 
for  this  reason  the  term  "electron  gas"  is  sometimes  employed  (Fig.  2).  When  a 
potential  difference  is  applied  between  the  ends  of  a  conductor,  electrons  go  from  the 
negative  to  the  positive  pole  (Fig.  3).  The  flow  of  electrons  thus  moves  in  the  direc- 
tion opposite  to  that  of  the  current  as  conventionally  defined.  The  behaviour  of  an 
electron  stream  in  a  magnetic  field  is  shown  in  Fig.  4,  where  a  single  individual  elec- 
tron (e.g.,  emitted  by  an  incandescent  wire  in  a  vacuum)  traverses  a  constant  magnetic 
field.  The  electron  itself  is  surrounded  by  its  own  magnetic  field,  which  is  super- 
imposed upon  the  main  field.  Under  the  conditions  considered,  the  magnetic  field 
strength  above  the  electron  path  is  thereby  intensified,  and  the  field  strength  below 
it  is  reduced.  The  resulting  field  strength  gradient  causes  the  electron  to  move  in  a 
curved  path.  In  the  interior  of  a  metal  conductor  this  gives  rise  to  a  difference  in 
potential,  or  voltage,  between  the  upper  and  the  lower  face  of  the  conductor  (Fig.  5). 
This  phenomenon  is  called  the  Hall  effect,  after  its  discoverer. 

The  electron  theory  of  metallic  conductivity  also  enables  induction  to  be  explained 
in  terms  that  can  be  visualised.  By  induction  is  understood  the  occurrence  of  electric 
potential  differences  and  currents  as  a  result  of  mechanical  movements  of  conductors 
in  a  magnetic  field. 

As  shown  in  Fig.  6,  a  piece  of  metal  can  be  conceived  as  a  kind  of  container  which 
is  filled  with  "electron  gas"  and  which,  for  the  purpose  of  the  present  explanation, 
is  assumed  to  be  moving  in  a  constant  magnetic  field.  As  a  result  of  this  motion  the 
electrons  in  the  metal  will  tend  to  follow  downward-curving  paths  and  thus  concen- 
trate at  the  lower  end,  so  that  this  end  will  acquire  a  negative  potential  in  relation 
to  the  upper  end  of  the  piece  of  metal.  If  the  two  ends  are  interconnected  by  a  wire 
which  extends  far  outside  the  magnetic  field,  an  induction  current  will  flow  through 
this  wire  so  long  as  the  piece  of  metal  continues  to  move  through  the  magnetic  field. 
In  general,  the  current  will  flow  so  long  as  the  amount  of  magnetic  flux  intersecting 
the  plane  of  a  circuit  (which  in  its  simplest  form  is  merely  a  loop  of  wire)  varies.  The 
variation  of  the  flux  can  be  obtained  either  by  varying  the  area  enclosed  within  the 
circuit  (this  is  the  principle  applied  in  the  electric  generator)  or  by  varying  the  mag- 
netic field  strength  and  thus  causing  changes  in  the  density  of  the  flux  (as  in  the 
transformer:  see  page  110).  The  operating  principle  of  the  generator  is  illustrated  in 
Fig.  7a:  The  amount  of  magnetic  flux  passing  through  the  plane  of  the  rotating  loop 
of  wires  varies  periodically  from  zero  to  its  maximum  value,  according  as  the  plane 
of  the  loop  is  parallel  or  perpendicular  to  the  magnetic  lines  of  force.  An  electric 
current  which  varies  periodically  in  direction  (alternating  current)  is  thereby  induced 
in  the  loop.  This  current  is  collected  by  means  of  contact  rings  (known  as  slip-rings) 
and  flows  through  the  external  circuit  (Fig.  7b).  The  collector  may  also  be  in  the  form 
of  a  so-called  commutator  consisting  of  a  number  of  separate  segments  (Fig.  7c, 
showing  only  two  segments),  whereby  a  (pulsating)  direct  current  is  obtained. 
See  also  pages  78  and  82. 


76 


Fig     1      CRYSTALLINE   STRUCTURE 
OF  COPPER 


Fig.   2     ELECTRON  GAS 


0 


'£°^- 


,<©  0^  e    © 


Fig.   3      FLOW  OF  ELECTRONS 


f 


<0_  0_     0_ 
G^-0-^--0-7- 

31^     0_^       e^ 


Fig.   4     ELECTRON   IN   A  MAGNETIC   FIELD 


Fig.   S      HALL   EFFECT 


Fig.  6     ELECTRIC  INDUCTION 


sliding  contacts 

/  S 


Fig.   7a      ELECTRIC   GENERATOR 
(dynamo) 


Fig.  7b     SLIP-RING   COLLECTOR 
'alternating  current) 


Fig    7c     COMMUTATOR 
(direct  current) 


77 


ELECTRIC  GENERATOR   (DYNAMO) 

Generators  are  machines  used  for  the  large-scale  production  of  electrical  energy. 
Their  operation  is  based  on  the  principle  of  electrical  induction  (see  also  page  76), 
whereby  a  periodic  flow  of  electricity  is  produced  in  a  loop-type  conductor  as  a 
result  of  the  periodic  variation  of  the  flux  of  the  magnetic  lines  of  force  passing 
through  this  loop.  To  do  this,  we  can  either  cause  the  loop  to  rotate  in  a  constant 
magnetic  field  or,  alternatively,  the  loop  can  be  kept  stationary  and  the  magnetic 
field  rotated.  In  the  former  arrangement  the  "loop"  is  formed  by  the  armature  wind- 
ings on  the  rotor  which  revolves  between  the  fixed  magnetic  poles  of  the  stator.  In 
the  latter  arrangement  the  armature  is  stationary,  and  the  magnetic  poles  (on  a 
so-called  "magnet  wheel")  revolve  instead;  the  stator  consists  of  an  iron  ring  with 
induction  coils  mounted  on  the  inside ;  the  magnetic  poles  on  the  rotor  move  past 
the  ends  of  these  coils  at  a  very  short  distance  from  them  (Figs.  1  and  3).  In  this  case 
the  current  produced  by  the  generator  is  taken  direct  from  the  stator,  without  the 
aid  of  special  current  collectors  (brushes).  For  this  reason  this  form  of  construction 
is  particularly  suitable  for  the  generation  of  high-voltage  alternating  current. 
The  sparking  that  occurs  at  high  voltages  (around  20,000  volts)  in  large  generators 
would  destroy  the  brushes.  The  relatively  low  output  of  direct  current  needed  for 
producing  the  rotating  magnetic  field  is  fed  to  the  rotor  by  means  of  slip-rings  and 
carbon  or  copper-mesh  brushes  (Fig.  3).  The  successive  coils  in  Fig.  1  are  wound  in 
alternate  directions,  which  ensures  that  the  generated  current  always  flows  in  the 
same  direction.  High-duty  generators  are  usually  coupled  directly — on  the  same 
shaft — to  steam  or  water  turbines.  Usually,  a  small  direct-current  dynamo  for 
producing  the  magnetic  field  is  also  mounted  on  the  driving  shaft  (Fig.  2).  In  the 
older  type  of  power  station  with  reciprocating  steam  engines,  the  rotor  of  the 
generator  is  generally  constructed  as  a  flywheel  with  the  magnetic  pole  windings 
round  its  rim.  Fig.  3  shows  a  smaller  generator  which  likewise  operates  on  the 
principle  described  above  (rotating  magnetic  field,  stationary  armature  winding). 
In  this  case  the  magnet  wheel  is  in  the  form  of  a  two-part  T-rotor. 


78 


nagnet  wheel  (rotor) 
/ith  induction  coils 


'V 


rotating  magnetic  field  (change  of 
magnetic  flux  in  the  stator  causes 
electric  induction) 


direct-current 
dynamo 


Fig.  2     GENERATING  SET 
stationary  armature  winding  (stator) 


Fig.   1      ALTERNATING-CURRENT  GENERATOR 
(internal  pole  machine,  schematic) 


magnet  wheel  (rotor) 


armature  winding 

(s,a,or)  direct  current 

for 
magnetic  field 


three-phase  alternating-current  output 


Fig.  3     DETAILS  OF  A  GENERATOR 
FOR  HIGH  VOLTAGES 
(internal  pole  machine) 


79 


BATTERY,  ACCUMULATOR  (DIRECT  CURRENT) 

If  two  different  metals  are  immersed  in  an  aqueous  solution— i.e.,  a  solution  of  a 
substance  m  water- which  can  conduct  electricity  (e.g.,  dilute  sulphuric  acid)  they 
will  have  a  different  tendency  to  dissolve  in  the  liquid.  The  two  metals  thereby  acquire 
electric  charges  of  different  sign.  As  a  result  of  this  chemical  process,  a  difference 
in  voltage  occurs  because  one  of  the  metals  appears  positive  or  negative  in  relation 
to  the  other.  In  this  respect  the  various  metals  or  other  conductors  can  be  arranged 
in  a  so-called  electrochemical  or  electromotive  series  in  which  each  metal  has  a 
higher  potential— i.e.,  appears  electrically  positive— in  relation  to  the  next  metal- 
carbon,  gold,  silver,  copper,  tin,  lead,  iron,  zinc. 

A  combination  of  two  metals  (the  electrodes)  in  an  aqueous  solution  for  producing 
electrical  energy  from  chemical  energy  is  sometimes  called  a  galvanic  cell  One  such 
cell  is  the  voltaic  cell  (Fig.  1)  in  which  the  two  metals  are  copper  (  +  )  and  zinc  (-) 
and  the  solution  in  which  they  are  immersed  is  dilute  sulphuric  acid.  If  an  in- 
candescent lamp  (for  example)  is  connected  to  the  two  poles  of  the  cell,  an  electric 
current  will  flow.  The  lamp  and  connecting  wires  form  the  external  part  of  the 
electric  circuit,  which  is  completed  in  the  interior  of  the  cell  by  the  conducting 
liquid  (which  is  called  the  electrolyte).  The  flow  of  current  inside  the  cell  causes 
polarisation,  i.e.,  bubbles  of  gas  are  deposited  on  the  electrodes,  with  the  result  that 
the  internal  resistance  is  increased  and  the  flow  of  current  is,  after  a  time  greatly 
reduced.  In  particular,  the  hydrogen  gas  that  is  evolved  at  the  anode  (the  positive 
P^fmust  be  removed  if  the  cell  is  to  go  on  functioning  properly.  In  the  Leclanche 
cell  (Fig.  2),  the  undesirable  polarisation  is  prevented  by  a  mixture  of  manganese 
dioxide  and  graphite  as  depolansers  which,  in  a  simple  form  of  this  cell,  are  contained 
in  a  linen  bag  which  encloses  the  carbon  anode.  Cells  of  this  kind  are  nowadays 
sometimes  used  for  supplying  the  current  to  work  an  electric  bell.  It  consists  of  a 
carbon  anode  with  the  depolanser,  a  zinc  cathode  (negative  pole1),  and  an  ammonium 
chloride  solution  as  the  electrolyte.  The  potential  difference  between  the  poles  of  the 
Leclanche  cell  is  1.3  volts.  The  size  of  the  cell  does  not  affect  this  voltage,  but  it  does 
determine  the  intensity  of  the  current  (amperage)  it  can  give.  The  chemical  energy 
that  is  converted  into  electrical  energy  when  the  cell  is  in  operation  is  obtained  from 
the  zinc  electrode,  which  dissolves  and  is  thus  consumed.  This  process  is  irreversible 
and  the  zinc  must  therefore  be  renewed  from  time  to  time.  The  depolariser  is  also 
consumed  and  requires  occasional  renewal.  Cells  in  which  the  electrodes  are  con- 
sumed are  called  primary  cells.  On  the  other  hand,  a  secondary  cell  can  be  restored 
to  its  original  state  by  charging,  i.e.,  passing  an  electric  current  through  it,  so  that  the 
electrodes  are  regenerated.  Cells  of  this  latter  type,  usually  grouped  in  batteries  of 
two  or  more,  are  called  accumulators  (storage  batteries).  A  commonly  used  type  of 
accumulator  has  electrodes  consisting  of  lead  plates ;  the  electrolyte  is  dilute  sulphuric 
acid  (Hgs.  3  and  4).  A  layer  of  lead  sulphate  is  formed  on  these  plates.  When  the 
accumulator  is  charged,  the  layer  on  the  anode  plate  is  transformed  into  brown  lead 
dioxide  while  the  cathode  is  reduced  to  grey  lead.  Electrical  energy  (the  charging 
current)  is  converted  into  chemical  energy.  In  the  charged  accumulator,  one  electrod? 
thus  consists  of  lead  and  the  other  of  lead  dioxide ;  these  electrodes,  together  with  the 
electrolyte  then  function  as  a  voltaic  cell.  The  stored  (accumulated)  chemical  energy 
is  converted  back  into  electrical  energy  (discharging).  The  accumulator  is  widely  used 
or  technical  purposes.  Besides  the  familiar  lead  accumulator  there  are  several  other 
kinds,  mc  udmg  the  nickel-iron  (Ni-Fe)  accumulator,  which  has  potassium  hydroxide 
as  electrolyte  The  lead  accumulator  produces  a  potential  difference  of  about  2  volts  ■ 
lor  the  nickel-iron  accumulator  it  is  1.36  volts.  Secondary  as  well  as  primary  cells 
are  also  manufactured  as  so-called  "dry"  cells,  in  which  the  electrolyte  is  in  the  form 
of  a  paste  instead  of  a  liquid.  Higher  voltages  are  obtained  by  connecting  two  or  more 
cells  m  series  (Fig.  5),  higher  current  intensities  by  connecting  them  in  parallel 
(Mg.  6)  All  cells  produce  direct  current,  i.e.,  an  electric  current  which  flows  constantly 
in  one  direction  (as  opposed  to  alternating  current :  see  page  76).  The  term  "battery" 
denotes  a  group  of  two  or  more  primary  or  secondary  cells,  connected  in  series  or  in 
parallel. 


80 


carbon  rod 


pper 


manganese 
dioxide  in 
linen  bag 

ammonium 

chloride 

solution 


dilute  sulphuric  acid 
Fig.  1      VOLTAIC  CELL 


Fig.  2     LECLANCHE  CELL 


plate 
(lead  oxide) 


lates  (lead  sulphate)      ^^     ACCUMULATOR  (automobile  battery) 
dilute  sulphuric  acid 
Fig.  3     ACCUMULATOR  (principle) 


+ 


+ 


-4 


voltage  three  times  that  of  one  cell 
Fig.  5     CELLS  CONNECTED  IN   SERIES 


+ 


+ 


+ 

+ 

"±- 

a 

"T~ 

- 

T     - 

i 

T 

<l 

current  three  times  that  of  one  cell 
Fig.  6     CELLS  CONNECTED  IN  PARALLEL 


81 


ALTERNATING   CURRENT,  THREE-PHASE   CURRENT, 
ELECTROMAGNETIC  WAVES 

When  electrical  energy  is  produced  by  induction  in  a  generator,  a  primary  alter- 
nating voltage  is  produced  which  causes  an  alternating  current  to  flow  in  an  external 
circuit  (Fig.  la;  see  page  78).  The  presence  of  capacity  and  self-induction  in  the 
circuit  may  cause  phase  displacements  between  the  voltage  and  the  current  (Fig.  lb). 
The  product  of  voltage  and  current  is  the  power.  In  a  case  where  the  voltage  and  the 
current  have  the  same  algebraic  sign,  the  power  is  positive  (Fig.  la).  If  a  phase 
displacement  between  current  and  voltage  occurs,  they  are  liable  to  be  of  different 
sign,  in  which  case  the  power  becomes  negative.  Because  of  these  negative  values, 
the  active  power  (true  power)  of  alternating  current  which  is  not  in  phase  (Fig.  lb) 
is  smaller  than  that  of  current  which  is  in  phase  (Fig.  la).  If  the  current  is  displaced  a 
quarter  period  in  relation  to  the  voltage,  then  there  will  be  no  active  power  at  all;  in 
that  case  only  the  so-called  idle  current  (wattless  current)  flows  through  the  circuit. 
The  reduction  in  power  that  occurs  as  a  result  of  phase  displacement  is  expressed  by 
the  power  factor  cos  </>  (electric  power  N  =  U.  I.  cos  (/>). 

If  three  alternating  currents  have  phase  displacements  of  120°  in  relation  to  one 
another,  then  at  any  particular  instant  the  sum  of  their  currents  or  of  their  voltages 
will  be  zero  (Fig.  2a).  Instead  of  six,  only  three  conductors  are  required  for  the 
transmission  of  these  three  currents  if  either  "star"  connection  (Fig.  2b)  or  "delta" 
connection  (Fig.  2c)  is  employed  for  the  conductors. 

If  three  electromagnets  arranged  as  shown  in  Fig.  2d  are  energised  by  three  such 
alternating  currents  (which  together  are  referred  to  as  "three-phase  alternating 
current"),  the  maximum  values  of  the  current  in  the  three  electromagnet  coils  will 
occur  successively,  with  a  phase  displacement  of  120°  in  relation  to  one  another. 
This  has  the  effect  of  producing  a  rotating  magnetic  field.  A  so-called  "squirrel- 
cage"  rotor,  for  instance,  can  be  made  to  rotate  in  such  a  magnetic  field,  so  that  this 
principle  can  very  suitably  be  applied  to  the  construction  of  three-phase  electric 
motors. 

Alternating  currents  are  characterised  by  their  frequency,  i.e.,  the  number  of 
cycles  (or  double  waves)  per  second.  The  term  "period"  signifies  the  time  occupied 
by  one  complete  cycle.  The  unit  of  frequency  is  the  hertz,  which  is  equal  to  one  cycle 
per  second.  Low-frequency  alternating  current  is  a  term  applicable  to  frequencies 
up  to  20,000  hertz.')  Ordinary  alternating  current  from  the  mains  has  a  frequency 
of  502  hertz.  The  electric  railways  in  certain  countries  operate  at  a  frequency  of 
I65  hertz.  High-frequency  alternating  currents  up  to  several  gigahertz  (1  gigahertz 

1  milliard3  hertz) — are  used  in  communication  engineering  and  more  particularly 
in  radio  communication.  This  is  because  an  alternating  current  produces  an  electro- 
magnetic field  which  varies  with  the  frequency  of  the  current  and  which  is  propagated 
through  space  with  the  velocity  of  light,  i.e.,  180,000  miles  per  second.  With  low- 
frequency  alternating  current  the  energy  that  is  transmitted  into  space  has  sufficient 
time  to  return  to  the  electrical  conductor  each  time  the  alternating  current  changes 
its  direction  of  flow.  With  very  high  frequencies,  on  the  other  hand,  the  change  of 
direction  takes  place  before  the  whole  of  the  energy  has  had  time  to  return.  A  pro- 
portion of  the  energy  is  therefore,  as  it  were,  cut  off  and  is  transmitted  into  space  as 
electromagnetic  radiation.  Because  of  the  periodic  character  of  this  radiation,  it  is 
referred  to  as  an  "electromagnetic  vibration",  and  because  of  its  similarity  with  the 
propagation  of  a  wave  in  water,  it  is  also  called  an  "electromagnetic  wave". 

(Continued) 


1.  The  usual  subdivision  of  frequency  ranges  is:  low  frequency  up  to  20,000  hertz;  medium  frequency 
from  20,000  to  30,000  hertz;  high  frequency  from  30,000  to  3000  megahertz  (  3000  million  hertz); 
beyond  this  is  the  range  known  as  hyperfrequency. 

2.  60  in  U.S.A. 

3.  One  billion  in  U.S.A. 

82 


"\ 


/     \ 

„     voltage  maximum 


power 

\ 


duration  of  one  period 

-*- > 

Fig.   la     TIME  GRAPH  OF  AN  ALTERNATING  CURRENT 


time 


1 

\ 

/ 

\         / 

\ 

\ 

\  power 

//■ 

N\       ' 

/  / 

^\A      / 

1    If 

\\  \> 

\ 
\ 

f      j 

f 

V      V 

w 

\/ 

\    /\ 

*— 

XVs 

\* 

lacement 

period  =  360° 

ngle"5 

-# 

perioc 

— >- 

Fig.   lb      PHASE  DISPLACEMENT  BETWEEN 
CURRENT  AND  VOLTAGE 


-O Q 


I 


Fig.  2b     STAR  CONNECTION 


Fig.  2c     DELTA  CONNECTION 


current 


time 


J«  \  J.   \  »L    niJ" 


,X. 


sum  of  currents  or  voltages 
always  zero 

Fig.  2a     INTERLINKING  OF  THREE 
ALTERNATING  CURRENTS 


rotating  magnetic  fie 


83 


High-voltage  accumulator  for  Swiss  Railways 

Photo  CFF 


m 


*M  '  IIP*  !>. 


-  >-»-■' 


I 


gm*-tii  ";,^f 


i 


» 


// 


fe  ,«>:'«  " 


I    -»■  wr«ZTT»**Wll 


JL L 


-  **  uiumasmim 


.  ,,m? ",  ton 


ALTERNATING   CURRENT,  THREE-PHASE   CURRENT, 

ELECTROMAGNETIC  WAVES 
(continued) 

The  generation  of  electromagnetic  waves  is  therefore  always  associated  with  the 
existence  of  a  high-frequency  alternating  current  whose  energy  is  radiated  into  space. 
This  radiation  process,  which  depends  on  the  frequency  of  the  alternating  current 
that  produces  it,  can  best  be  demonstrated  with  reference  to  the  so-called  Hertz 
dipole  (Fig.  3a).  This  device  consists  of  a  conductor  whose  length  is  related  to  the 
length  of  the  period  —  more  commonly  known  as  the  wavelength — of  the  electro- 
magnetic wave  produced.  The  wavelength  is  found  as  the  velocity  of  propagation 
(=  distance  travelled  per  second)  divided  by  the  frequency  (=  number  of  periods 
or  cycles  per  second).  If  a  high-frequency  alternating  current  is  passed  through  this 
conductor  (or  is  produced  in  the  latter  by  induction),  a  high-frequency  alternating 
electromagnetic  field  will  be  formed  around  it,  as  shown  in  Fig.  3a.  The  emission  of 
electromagnetic  waves  at  the  critical  distance  rk  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  3b.  If  one  end 
of  a  dipole  is  earthed,  we  have  the  simplest  form  of  an  aerial  (antenna).  A  circuit 
whose  electrical  and  magnetic  properties  (capacity  and  self-induction  respectively) 
are  tuned  to  the  frequency  of  the  alternating  current — i.e.,  is  in  resonance  with  it 
is  called  an  oscillating  circuit.  The  latter  comprises  a  condenser  and  a  self-induction 
coil.  Once  it  is  charged,  the  condenser  discharges  itself  through  the  coil,  so  that 
electrical  energy  that  was  stored  up  in  the  condenser  is  converted  into  magnetic 
energy.  After  the  discharge  of  the  condenser  has  taken  place,  the  magnetic  field 
breaks  down  and  induces  a  current  in  the  coil.  This  current  gives  the  condenser  a 
charge  of  opposite  sign  to  its  original  charge.  If  no  losses  occurred,  the  charge  would 
go  on  oscillating — changing  its  sign — indefinitely.  The  frequency  of  this  oscillation, 
and  therefore  the  frequency  of  the  alternating  current  that  is  produced,  is  higher  in 
proportion  as  the  capacity  C  and  the  self-induction  L  are  lower  (Fig.  4a).  The  oscilla- 
tion period  Tis  given  by  the  formula  T—  In^jLC. 

If  the  plates  of  the  condenser  are  separated,  as  in  Fig.  4b,  they  can  be  conceived  as 
the  "aerial"  and  "earth"  respectively.  This  principle  of  the  aerial  (antenna)  is 
further  illustrated  in  Figs.  4c  and  4d.  In  these  cases  the  electric  field  of  the  condenser 
is  utilised  for  the  transmission  and  reception  of  the  electromagnetic  energy  in  the 
form  of  waves.  A  coil  wound  round  an  open  frame  (directive  aerial)  (Fig.  4e)  can  be 
used  for  receiving  the  magnetic  portion  of  the  field.  The  frame  is  rotated  to  the 
position  where  maximum  variation  of  the  magnetic  flux  is  obtained. 

An  important  piece  of  equipment  for  producing  hyper-frequency  oscillations 
(see  page  92  et  seq.)  is  the  cavity  resonator.  Fig.  4f  shows  how  such  a  resonator  can 
be  conceived  as  being  evolved  from  an  oscillating  circuit  of  minimum  capacity  and 
self-induction.  The  lateral  wall  of  the  "box"  corresponds  to  the  self-induction  and 
the  end  surfaces  correspond  to  the  capacity. 


86 


Fig.  3o     SPHERICAL  WAVE   SYSTEM 
AROUND  A   HERTZ   DIPOLE 


— r  _  electric  spherical  waves 
Fig.   3b     EMISSION  OF  WAVES 


Fig.   3c     DIPOLE   EARTHED  ON   ONE  SIDE 

(antenna) 


magnetic  field 


self-induction  coil 


condenser  *   * 


field  direction  changes  when  the 
current  changes  its  direction 


Fig.   4a     CLOSED  OSCILLATING  CIRCUIT 


Fig.  4b     OPEN  OSCILLATING  CIRCUIT 


Fig.   4c     ANTENNA 


capacity 


Fig.   4d      ANTENNA 


rotation  produces  cavity  with 
"pegs"  (determining  the  capacity' 


agnetic  field 


nduced  current 


Fig.   4e     DIRECTIVE   ANTENNA 
electric  field 


When  the  "pegs" 

disappear 

(reduction  of  the  capacity) 

a  pure  cavity  resonator 

is  obtained 


Fig.   4f     CAVITY   RESONATOR 


87 


ALTERNATING   CURRENT,  THREE-PHASE   CURRENT, 
ELECTROMAGNETIC  WAVES:  TRANSMITTERS,   RECEIVERS 

Oscillating  circuits  are  used,  in  the  form  of  aerials,  as  transmitting  and  receiving 
devices  for  electromagnetic  energy  in  radio  transmitters  and  receivers.  As  the 
emission  of  electromagnetic  waves  constantly  withdraws  energy  from  the  oscillating 
circuit  of  the  transmitter  and  therefore  damps  it,  it  is  necessary  constantly  to  supply 
fresh  energy  to  it.  This  is  done  by  means  of  a  triode  or  a  transistor  in  a  feedback  circuit 
(Figs.  1,  2  and  6).  As  a  result  of  induction,  a  grid  voltage  is  produced  which  supplies  a 
correctly  synchronised  high-frequency  alternating  current  to  the  oscillating  circuit 
in  the  anode  circuit  or  collector  circuit.  By  means  of  a  suitably  connected  microphone 
the  transmitted  wave  is  amplitude-modulated  or  frequency-modulated.  In  radio 
engineering  "modulation"  means  that  the  pattern  of  the  current  variations  or 
impulses  are  superimposed  upon  the  carrier  wave.  With  amplitude  modulation  it  is 
the  amplitude  of  the  high-frequency  carrier  wave  that  is  modified ;  on  the  other  hand, 
with  frequency  modulation,  the  frequency  of  the  carrier  wave  is  varied  in  accordance 
with  the  frequency  pattern  of  the  sound  waves  (speech  or  music)  to  be  transmitted. 
In  the  receiver  the  oscillating  circuit  is  tuned  to  the  frequency  of  the  incoming  wave, 
whose  energy  produces  a.  synchronous  high-frequency  alternating  current  in  the 
oscillating  circuit.  The  alternating  voltage  associated  with  this  current  is  used  to 
control  the  anode  current  or  collector  current  through  the  agency  of  the  grid  (Figs. 
3  and  4)  or  the  emitter  (Fig.  5).  The  high-frequency  alternating  current  component 
that  is  superimposed  on  the  anode  direct  current  is  fed  to  a  loudspeaker  through  a 
resistance  or  a  transformer  (Figs.  3,  4  and  5).  The  cases  considered  here  relate  to 
high-frequency  amplification.  If  rectification  is  applied  before  amplification,  the 
process  is  called  low-frequency  amplification.  Cf.  radio  receiver  (page  1 00),  thermionic 
tube  (page  90),  and  semiconductors  (page  98). 


88 


microphone 


transformer 


tube  delivers  impulses 
to  oscillating  circuit 
in  phase 

and  makes  up  forj^ 
nergy  losses  (^ 

feedback 


T 


litted 


emitted  wave 


m  icrophone  /"— '— \ 

flnn 


Fig.   1      TUBE  TRANSMITTER 

(amplitude  modulation) 


Fig.   2     TUBE  TRANSMITTER 

(frequency  modulation) 


transformer 


—  I    T"  —       ~\-       resistance 

tunable  oscillating 
circuit 

.         Fig.  3     TUBE   RECEIVER 
X  (amplitude  modulation) 

incoming  wave 

transistor  microphone 


Fig.  4     TUBE   RECEIVER  WITH 
TRANSFORMER 


emitted  wave 


oscillating  circuit 


4 


r\         \  rectifier 

I  \j\j     \  ^«v.      loudspea 


loudspeaker        battery 


> 


"O    collector  W 


-O    emitter 


-O    base 


Fig.  5     TRANSISTOR   RECEIVER 


collector 


emitter 
Fig.  6     TRANSISTOR  TRANSMITTER 


89 


THERMIONIC  (VACUUM)  TUBE 

The  "free"  electrons  which  are  present  in  the  crystal  lattice  of  a  metal  can  be 
liberated  by  the  addition  of  energy.  The  simplest  way  to  do  this  is  by  heating  the 
metal  to  incandescence.  The  emission  of  the  electrons  can  in  that  case  suitably  be 
conceived  as  a  kind  of  evaporation  process  (Fig.  1).  As  a  result  of  collisions  between 
the  atoms  of  the  metal — which  are  in  a  state  of  increased  thermal  agitation  (heat 
motion)  because  of  the  heat  applied  —  high-energy  electrons  are  released,  which  can 
break  out  from  the  surface  of  the  metal  and  escape  despite  the  restraining  effect  of 
the  attractive  force  exerted  by  the  positive  ions  remaining  behind  in  the  metal. 
This  emission  of  electrons  from  an  incandescent  metal  (usually  an  electrically- 
heated  filament)  can  most  suitably  be  made  to  take  place  in  a  vacuum.  This  prevents 
oxidation  of  the  very  hot  surface  of  the  metal  and  allows  the  electrons  to  emerge 
unobstructed,  i.e.,  without  colliding  with,  or  being  neutralised  by,  gas  molecules  and 
ions  of  the  air.  A  device  which  fulfils  this  requirement  is  the  thermionic  tube  (or 
thermionic  valve).  It  must  contain  at  least  two  electrodes;  also,  it  may  have  one  or 
more  additional  electrodes  for  controlling  the  stream  of  free  electrons  flowing  inside 
it.  The  simplest  form,  with  only  two  electrodes,  is  the  diode  valve  (or  merely  "diode") 
(Fig.  2).  The  hot  cathode,  connected  to  the  negative  pole  of  a  battery,  faces  the  anode 
(positive  electrode)  which  draws  electrons  towards  it  from  the  cathode.  On  their  way 
from  the  cathode  to  the  anode  the  electrons  form  a  negative  space  charge,  which  can 
be  influenced  by  the  electric  fields  of  other  electrodes  (and  also  by  magnetic  fields; 
cf.  magnetron,  page  92).  The  simplest  thermionic  tube  of  this  kind  is  the  triode, 
which  has  a  third  electrode,  the  control  grid.  The  latter  allows  the  electrons  to  pass 
through  it  and  controls  them  by  appropriately  modifying  the  space  charge.  The 
circuit  connections  for  a  triode  of  this  kind  are  shown  in  Fig.  3.  The  effect  of  the  grid 
upon  the  space  charge  is  clarified  in  Fig.  4.  Variations  in  the  grid  voltage  strengthen 
or  weaken  the  space  charge  and  thus  vary  the  density  of  the  stream  of  electrons 
flowing  to  the  anode.  The  cathode  of  the  triode  in  Fig.  4  shows  a  particular  feature  in 
that  the  electrons  are  not  emitted  by  the  hot  glowing  filament  itself,  but  by  a  coating 
of  barium  oxide  which  is  (indirectly)  heated  by  the  filament.  The  oxide  cathode  offers 
two  advantages :  for  one  thing,  it  emits  electrons  already  at  a  relatively  low  tempera- 
ture (feeble  red  heat),  so  that  the  heat  losses  are  lower;  secondly,  it  forms  an  equi- 
potential  surface,  so  that  the  conditions  of  emission  are  the  same  for  all  the  electrons. 
This  latter  condition  is  not  satisfied  if  the  electrons  are  emitted  by  the  filament  itself 
because  a  voltage  drop  occurs  between  its  ends.  The  control  performance  of  a 
triode  can  be  judged  from  so-called  characteristic  curves.  Each  of  these  curves  is 
obtained  by  measuring  the  current  /a  flowing  from  the  anode  and  also  measuring  the 
grid  voltage  U  (this  is  the  voltage  which  is  applied  to  the  grid  at  ±  in  Fig.  3)  while 
the  anode  voltage  Ua  is  kept  constant  at  one  particular  value.  One  such  curve  can 
be  plotted  for  each  of  a  number  of  values  of  the  anode  voltage  (Ual,  Ua2,  C/a3). 
From  the  characteristic  curves  thus  obtained  (Fig.  5)  it  is  possible  to  deduce  certain 
characteristic  quantities  (e.g.,  the  slope  S)  which  can  be  used  for  describing  the 
behaviour  of  the  thermionic  tube.  By  applying  negative  grid  voltages,  the  flow  of 
electrons  can  be  completely  inhibited;  on  the  other  hand,  for  high  positive  values  of 
the  grid  voltage  the  electron  flow  must  attain  a  maximum  (saturation)  value  when  the 
space  charge  has  become  exhausted  and  all  the  electrons  emitted  by  the  cathode 
reach  the  anode.  The  increase  in  the  anode  current  from  zero  up  to  its  saturation 
value  is  approximately  linear. 

The  thermionic  tube  has  the  property  of  unipolar  conductivity,  i.e.,  the  electrons 
can  flow  in  one  direction  only,  namely,  from  the  (hot)  cathode  to  the  (cold)  anode. 
For  this  reason,  thermionic  tubes  can  also  serve  as  rectifiers  (see  page  96). 


90 


electrons 


vacuur 


surface 


i  ©  0  ©  A  ©  o  © 

oe  g  u   0 

©  e©  0  © 


hot  metal 


Fig.   1      EMISSION  OF  ELECTRONS  FROM 
A  HOT  METAL 


grid 


anode 


node 
11  current  I. 


grid  voltage  U 
hot  cathode 


filament  battery     anode  voltage  U. 

U^l ; 


Fig.  3     TRIODE 


node 


7£ 


e 


TfH 

filament  battery 


hot  cathode 


anode  current  I, 


anode  battery  (voltage  U .) 


Fig.  2     DIODE 


oxide  cathode 


Fig.  4     EFFECT  OF  THE  GRID  ON  THE 
SPACE  CHARGE 


u„,    uo2  -  u. 


anode  current 


Fig.  5     TRIODE  CHARACTERISTIC  grid  voltage  U, 

STEEPNESS  S=       A|./Aij, 


91 


ULTRA-HIGH    FREQUENCY  VIBRATIONS 

If  variations  occur  in  the  electron  density  or  the  electron  velocity  of  a  stream  of 
electrons,  portions  of  the  electromagnetic  field  which  always  surrounds  the  electron 
stream  will  become  detached  at  the  same  rhythm,  or  frequency,  as  the  variations  and 
will — more  particularly  if  the  variations  occur  periodically — cause  emission  of 
electromagnetic  vibrations.  Such  vibrations  are  thus  invariably  associated  with  the 
existence  of  a  high-frequency  alternating  current.  Conditions  for  the  detachment  of 
the  electromagnetic  field  are  more  favourable  according  as  the  frequency  is  higher, 
because  the  individual  phases  will,  on  reversal,  encounter  an  already  changed  situa- 
tion (cf.  page  82).  The  frequency  of  the  alternating  current  which  supplies  the  energy 
will  depend  on  the  inductance  and  capacitance  (or  capacity)  of  the  circuit  which 
generates  and  gives  forth  the  electromagnetic  energy.  High  frequencies,  i.e.,  short 
wavelengths,  will  therefore  be  obtained  more  particularly  by  reducing  the  self- 
inductance  and  capacitance  of  the  oscillating  circuit  and  by  using  a  set  of  apparatus 
that  produces  periodic  variations  of  electron  density  and  electron  velocity  (Figs. 
1  and  2).  Fig.  2  shows  the  so-called  three-point  circuit  (1-2*3),  in  which  the  inductance 
of  the  terminal  wires  (LA  and  LG)  provides  the  self-inductance  and  a  very  small 
condenser  (C)  merely  serves  to  separate  the  anode  and  cathode.  The  self-inductances 
of  the  tubes  serve  as  the  capacitances  of  the  oscillating  circuits.  If  the  inductance  and 
capacitance  are  still  further  reduced  (shorter  terminal  wires,  smaller  condenser), 
the  finite  transit  time  of  the  electrons  will  disturb  the  onset  of  the  vibrations.  If  the 
transit  time  exceeds  the  oscillation  period  (which  is  the  reciprocal  value  of  the  fre- 
quency) of  the  oscillating  circuit,  phase  displacements  will  occur  which  may  be 
likened  to  the  behaviour  of  a  swing  which  is  being  pushed  at  intervals  of  time  which 
are  shorter  than  its  swinging  period.  To  make  a  virtue  of  necessity,  investigators 
either  chose  the  transit  time  itself  as  the  oscillation  period  (Barkhausen-Kurz 
oscillations;  Fig.  3)  or  shortened  the  distances  between  the  grid  and  the  cathode,  the 
electrodes  being  constructed  as  discs  for  the  sake  of  better  mechanical  stability 
(disc-seal  triodes;  Fig.  4).  In  the  first-mentioned  case  the  grid  must  have  a  positive, 
but  the  anode  a  negative  voltage,  in  order  to  make  the  electrons  oscillate  to  and  fro 
between  the  anode  and  cathode  (and  pass  through  the  grid  while  doing  so).  The 
highest  frequencies  attainable  with  a  triode  are  in  the  region  of  about  104  megahertz. 
The  grid-to-cathode  spacing  of  15  microns  (0.015  mm  =  0.0006  inch)  presents  a 
technical  limit  to  a  further  increase  in  frequency. 

The  next  step  in  the  process  of  development  was  to  produce  the  periodic  vibrations 
of  the  electron  stream  without  the  help  of  a  material  grid.  A  stream  of  electrons 
can  be  forced  to  perform  a  periodic  motion  other  than  oscillation,  namely,  movement 
along  a  circular  or  spiral  path.  This  led  to  the  construction  of  the  magnetron.  The 
permanent  magnetic  field  with  constant  field  strength  functions  as  a  virtual  grid. 
The  rotational  frequency  of  the  electrons  on  circular  paths  between  anode  and 
cathode  determines  the  frequency  of  the  electromagnetic  vibrations  (Figs.  5a-5c). 

(Continued) 


92 


ig.   1      INDUCTIVE  FEEDBACK  CIRCUIT 
(Me/ssner  circuit) 


Fig.  2     THREE-POINT  CIRCUIT  FOR 
VERY  HIGH  FREQUENCIES 


resonator  as 


+  -^—  x    -*-        oscillating 


circuit 


:|g    3     BARKHAUSEN-KURZ  CIRCUIT  WITH  DISC-SEAL 
TRIODE  FOR  VERY  HIGH   FREQUENCIES 


cavity  resonators 


anode 


Fig.  4     DISC-SEAL  TRIODE  FOR  OSCILLATORS 


magnetic  field 


cathode 


streams  of  electrons  revolving 
like  "spokes" 


a)    basic  principle  of  the 
magnetron 


cavity  resonator 
high-frequency  power  pick-up 


Fig.   5     MAGNETRON 


93 


ULTRA-HIGH    FREQUENCY  VIBRATIONS 
(continued) 

Further  increases  in  the  frequencies  attainable  with  the  magnetron  (see  page  92) 
can  be  achieved  by  reducing  the  size  of  the  operative  components.  There  is  obviously 
a  technical  limit  to  what  can  be  done  in  this  direction.  In  the  arrangement  shown  in 
Fig.  1  an  electron  beam  of  constant  velocity  is  directed  into  a  cavity  resonator 
(cf.  page  86)  which  modulates  the  velocity  of  the  electrons  in  the  rhythm  of  the  voltage 
impressed  upon  it.  On  the  way  from  the  cathode  to  the  anode  variations  of  density  | 
occur  on  account  of  the  different  electron  transit  times  as  a  result  of  their  different 
velocities,  the  electrons  are  periodically  compressed  to  "electron  packets".  The 
intensified  alternating  current  energy  is  abstracted  from  the  beam  in  a  second 
cavity  resonator  and  fed  to  an  aerial  (antenna).  Control  is  effected  by  feedback  by  - 
means  of  a  hollow  waveguide  to  the  input  cavity  resonator.  A  velocity-modulated 
tube  of  this  kind  is  called  a  klystron.  The  travelling-wave  tube  (Fig.  2)  utilises  the 
fact  that  an  electric  field  prefers  a  metallic  path  to  a  vacuum.  If  the  metallic  spiral 
which  guides  the  field  has  a  pitch  of  yj,  the  field  will  have  a  velocity  component 
whose  magnitude  in  the  flow  direction  of  the  electrons  is  equal  to  jj  of  the  velocity 
of  light  and  thus  has  about  the  same  value  as  the  electrons  accelerated  by  about 
1500  volts,  which  interact  with  the  field.  With  electron  tubes  of  this  kind  it  is 
possible  to  attain  ultra-high  frequencies  corresponding  to  wavelengths  in  the 
millimetre  range.  This  already  brings  us  into  the  range  of  long-wave  heat  radiation, 
i.e.,  the  range  of  atomic  phenomena.  The  next  step,  therefore,  was  to  enable  atomic 
electromagnetic  radiation  to  be  controlled  at  will.  This  can  be  achieved  by  means  of 
the  molecular  oscillators  (known  as  masers  and  lasers  respectively.*)  Masers  differ 
from  lasers  in  the  wavelength  range  of  the  radiation  emitted :  it  consists  of  micro- 
waves in  the  case  of  the  maser,  and  of  light  waves  in  the  case  of  the  laser.  The  principle 
is  indicated  in  the  atomic  diagram  in  Fig.  3.  Three  possible  different  energy  states 
I,  II,  III  (stable  electron  orbits)  occur  around  a  positive  atomic  nucleus.  The  pump 
radiation  (I)  raises  electrons  from  state  I  to  state  III,  with  the  result  that  more 
electrons  than  the  number  corresponding  to  temperature  equilibrium  will  be  in 
state  III.  There  they  form  a  supply  of  electrons  in  readiness  to  move  into  state  II, 
from  where  the  electrons — under  the  action  of  an  excitation  radiation  (2) — pass 
back  to  state  I,  this  being  accompanied  by  the  emission  of  radiation  (3). 

The  entire  process  (pumping,  excitation,  emission)  takes  place  so  rapidly  that  the 
equalisation  due  to  thermal  energy  has  not  yet  been  accomplished.  For  this  reason 
amplifiers  and  transmitters  which  operate  on  the  maser  or  laser  principle  are 
practically  noiseless,  i.e.,  they  do  not  exhibit  the  disturbances  caused  by  the  thermal 
oscillatory  motion  of  the  electrons  (thermal  noise;  cf.  page  140),  which  can  otherwise 
be  eliminated  only  by  cooling  to  a  temperature  close  to  absolute  zero  (-  273°  C).  With 
these  devices  it  is  possible  to  detect  power  outputs  of  as  low  as  10-28  Watts.  Because 
of  its  atomic  character,  the  maser  or  laser  radiation  has  an  extremely  constant 
frequency  and  sharp  concentration  of  the  radiation  into  a  beam.  Fig.  4  shows  the 
technical  form  of  construction  of  a  ruby  maser. 


*  These  names  are  abbreviations  of  "microwave  amplification  by  stimulated  emission  of  radiation' 
and  "light  amplification  by  stimulated  emission  of  radiation". 


94 


Fig.   1      KLYSTRON 


; 


cathode 


antenna  (aerial) 


Fig.  2     TRAVELLING-WAVE  TUBE 


Q 


anode 


cathode 


antenna 
(aerial) 


=tM  JS333=«S* 


+ 


JUU 


;  u      electron  beam 
b 


=TD^\   B 


anode 


cavity  resonators 


electrons  in  readiness  to  move  in 


V- 


m 


ti 


:ftftr 


excitation  radiation 


* r\f]JL    -  pump  radiation 


MASER  AND  LASER 


transmission  frequency  tuning 
pump  frequency  tuning 
transmission  energy 


rectangular  hollow  conductor  for 
pump  frequency  energy 


RECTIFIER 

A  rectifier  is  a  device  which  allows  an  electric  current  to  pass  in  one  direction  but 
not  in  the  opposite  direction.  A  mechanical  analogy  is,  for  example,  a  Venetian  blind 
(Fig.  1). 

A  vacuum  tube  rectifier  always  has  a  cathode  (K),  which  is  almost  invariably  a 
filament  heated  by  current,  and  an  anode  (A).  The  cathode  emits  electrons  which 
either  rush  at  high  velocity  straight  to  the  anode  and  thus  establish  the  conductive 
connection  directly  to  the  anode  (in  the  case  of  high-vacuum  tubes),  or,  alternatively, 
ionise  the  gas  that  is  present  in  the  tube  (in  gas-filled  tubes).  High-vacuum  rectifier 
tubes  can  be  used  only  for  relatively  small  currents.  Fig.  2  shows  the  principle  of  a 
rectifier  in  its  simplest  form  (one-way  rectifier) :  as  the  rectifier  tube  allows  current 
to  pass  in  one  direction  only  (Fig.  3),  a  pulsating  direct  current  is  produced  in  the 
circuit;  this  current  is  "smoothed"  by  the  condenser. 

Gas-filled  rectifier  tubes  (the  gas  filling  usually  consists  of  mercury  vapour  or  an 
inert  gas,  e.g.,  argon  or  helium)  differ  in  their  functional  behaviour  from  high- 
vacuum  tubes.  When  a  low  anode  voltage  is  applied,  at  first  only  a  weak  current  will 
flow,  as  the  gas  retards  rather  than  assists  the  movements  of  the  emitted  electrons. 
On  increasing  the  voltage,  however,  so  high  a  velocity  is  imparted  to  the  electrons  that 
they  ionise  the  gas  atoms  as  a  result  of  colliding  with  them :  a  powerful  current 
suddenly  flows:  the  tube  "ignites".  The  internal  resistance  of  a  conductive  path 
through  an  ionised  gas  is  substantially  lower  than  that  of  an  electron  stream,  and  the 
power  output  is  therefore  higher.  Fig.  4  shows  the  technical  form  of  construction  of  a 
large  rectifier.  It  is  intended  more  particularly  for  three-phase  alternating  current 
and  is  accordingly  provided  with  three  anodes. 

Besides  the  thermionic  rectifiers  described  above,  semiconductors  (see  page  98) 
are  also  used  as  rectifier  elements. 

A  characteristic  feature  of  semiconductors  is  that  their  low  electric  conductivity 
can  be  substantially  modified  by  the  addition  of  minute  quantities  of  impurities. 
If  the  crystals  are  contaminated  by  the  intentional  addition  of  impurities,  the  con- 
ductivity is  very  greatly  increased.  For  instance,  one  part  in  ten  thousand  of  boron 
can  increase  the  conductivity  of  silicon  one  million  times.  Depending  on  the  kind  of 
impurity,  a  positively  conducting  (P-type)  or  a  negatively  conducting  (N-type) 
semiconductor  can  be  obtained.  The  direction  of  flow  of  the  electrons  can  be  con- 
trolled in  this  way.  If  a  P-type  and  an  N-type  semiconductor  layer  are  in  contact 
with  each  other  in,  for  example,  a  germanium  crystal,  then  such  a  crystal  will  have 
rectifying  properties  (Fig.  6;  semiconductor  diode). 

If  an  external  voltage  is  so  applied  to  a  semiconductor  diode  that  the  negative 
pole  is  in  contact  with  the  N-type  layer  and  the  positive  pole  is  in  contact  with  the 
P-type  layer  (Fig.  6a),  then  the  negative  charge  carriers  of  the  N-type  layer  and  the 
positive  charge  carriers  of  the  P-type  layer  are  forced  to  the  middle  of  the  crystal — 
where  the  P-N  boundary  is  located — because  charges  of  similar  sign  repel  each 
other.  At  the  boundary  an  intensive  interchange  of  electrons  and  "holes"  (equivalent 
to  positive  electronic  charges)  occurs,  so  that  a  strong  current  flows.  If  the  polarity 
of  the  externally  applied  voltage  is  reversed  (Fig.  6b),  the  negative  and  positive 
charge  carriers  are  drawn  away  from  the  boundary  zone  because  charges  of  dissimilar 
sign  attract  each  other.  At  the  boundary — the  so-called  blocking  layer — there 
are  now  no  charge  carriers  available,  and  no  current  can  flow. 

Fig.  5  shows  the  characteristic  of  a  semiconductor  diode.  The  voltage  and  the 
current  have  been  plotted  in  a  co-ordinate  system.  It  appears  that  the  current  in- 
creases when  the  voltage  is  raised  towards  positive  values,  but  that  the  current 
remains  zero  when  negative  voltages  are  applied  (though  some  current  may  flow 
when  the  negative  voltage  is  further  increased  to  a  high  value). 


96 


-e^- 


transformer  rectifier  tube 


-e^- 


-e«=- 


-e^- 


alternating  current 


condenser 


Fig.   1     VENETIAN  BLIND  AS  "RECTIFIER"         Fig.  2     SIMPLE  ONE-WAY  RECTIFIER  TUBE 


+ 


Fig.  3     DIAGRAM  OF  RECTIFIER  TUBE:  current 

can  flow  in  direction  (a)  but  not  in  direction  (b) 


r 

nillic 

mpe 

res  ( 

current) 

l 

k      I 

I 
+6 

I 
+5 

a. 

• 

n 

I 
+4 

I 
+3 

3 

o 

I 
+2 

^i 

/ 

inve 

rse  v 

rolta 

I 
ae     +1 

% 

-1< 

)0  -80-60  -40  -20 

/ 

2 

-100 

+ 

-  cr 

o 

n 

5' 

(Q 

-  Q. 

ro 
rt 

5' 

3 

1 

2    -3  ... 

/ 

I 
200 

I 
300 

I 
400 

I 

-500 

—      p     — 

Fig.  4     A  LARGE  RECTIFIER 


Fig.  5     CHARACTERISTIC  OF  A  SEMI-CONDUCTOR  DIODE 


N-type  layer       P-type  layer 


FM 


*f  — » — H- 


blocking  layer 
/ 


b   ■—    — 


+      +    + 


Fig.  6     RECTIFYING  ACTION  OF  A  SEMI-CONDUCTOR 


97 


SEMICONDUCTORS 

In  contrast  with  metals,  semiconductors  contain  only  a  relatively  small  number 
of  quasi-free  electrons  (see  page  76)  at  room  temperature.  The  conductivity  of  semi- 
conductors is  therefore  of  the  order  of  10~5  times  as  low  as  that  of  metals.  It  can  be 
increased  by  breaking  up  the  electronic  double  bonds  which  normally  exist  between 
the  tetravelent  atoms  of  semiconductors,  as  represented  in  the  crystal  lattice  dia- 
grams (Figs.  1  and  2).  Commonly  used  semiconductors  are  germanium  (Ge),  silicon 
(Si)  and  various  others.  By  the  incorporation  of  impurities,  i.e.,  foreign  atoms  of 
higher  or  lower  valence,  which  function  as  points  of  disturbance  in  the  crystal  lattice 
(Fig.  4),  the  conductivity  properties  of  semiconductors  can  be  varied  within  very 
wide  limits.  A  donor  impurity  makes  electronic  conduction  possible  by  providing 
free  electrons;  an  acceptor  impurity  captures  electrons.  Positive  conduction  occurs 
as  the  result  of  a  deficiency  of  electrons:  there  is  a  flow  of  positive  charges  ("holes"); 
negative  conduction  occurs  as  the  result  of  a  surplus  of  electrons.  Where  positively 
and  negatively  conducting  zones  meet  each  other,  the  transition  region  constitutes  a 
layer  of  high  electric  resistance  (blocking  layer)  (Fig.  6).  When  a  voltage  is  applied, 
the  concentration  of  positive  and  negative  charges  in  the  transition  region  can  be 
increased  (flow  direction  of  current)  or  decreased  (blocking  direction).  Figs.  3  and  5 
show  the  conditions  within  the  so-called  energy  level  diagram.  The  range  A£  is 
known  as  the  "forbidden  band".  The  ordinate  is  the  electron  energy  E,  the  abscissa 
represents  the  longitudinal  extension  x.  Semiconductor  elements  comprising  a 
transition  from  positive  to  negative  conduction  are  called  semiconductor  diodes, 
while  those  which  comprise  two  such  transitions  are  called  transistors.  The  transistor 
(Fig.  7)  is  a  semiconductor  triode.  Its  three  electrodes  are  respectively  called  the 
emitter,  the  base  and  the  collector.  The  significant  feature  is  that  the  base  should  be 
narrow  (50  microns)  so  as  to  enable  the  charge  carriers  from  the  emitter  to  pass 
through  the  boundary  layer  1  and  traverse  the  base,  so  that  they  can  thus  affect  the 
processes  taking  place  at  the  boundary  layer  2.  Control  of  the  passage  of  current 
between  base  and  collector  is  thereby  achieved.  This  enables  the  transistor  to  be 
employed  for  purposes  of  amplification  and  the  generation  of  oscillations.  It  is 
progressively  superseding  the  thermionic  valves  or  tubes  (see  page  90).  Besides 
taking  up  far  less  space,  transistorised  systems  have  the  advantage  of  dispensing  with 
the  filament  current.  Cf.  rectifiers,  page  96. 


98 


Fig.   1      CRYSTAL  STRUCTURE  OF  A 
SEMI-CONDUCTOR 


A  E  (electronic 
bond  energy) 

Fig.  2     CRYSTAL  LATTICE  DIAGRAM 


E, 


jrbiddenf 
band  | 


k  yy  conductance  band  /Z^ 


donor  impurity 

acceptor  impurity 


v//////////////, 
Y/  valence  band  I 

W///M/////A 


longitudinal  direction 


Fig.  3     ELECTRON  BAND  MODEL  OF 
A  SEMI-CONDUCTOR 


positive      conduction      negative 

vmmm 


t 


Fig.  5 


positive       negative      positive 
conduction 


+ 


4-    4   4 
+  +  + 

7     +  4  4 


Z.  -I-  _-4— 


_ 


Z 


emitter 


+ 


44 


1 1  2  collector 

0    base 

Fig.  7     HOW  A  TRANSISTOR  WORKS:  current 
in  collector  circuit  controlled  by 
conduction  in  emitter  circuit 


0  surplus 
//~^\  electron 


captured 
electron 


donor  impurity 
negative  conduction 


acceptor  impurity 
positive  conduction 


Fig.  4     DONOR  AND  ACCEPTOR  IMPURITIES 


44  +  ++ 

X  +  ++ 

4-     4    + 

I 

+   " 

4    - 
+  - 

_     _    _ 

positive       conduction     negative 


positive      conduction      negative 


positive      conduction      negative 


Fig.  6     FORMATION  AND  VARIATION  OF 
TRANSITION   REGION 


99 


RADIO   RECEIVER 

The  radio  receiver  in  its  simplest  form  comprises  an  input  circuit  for  tuning  in  to 
the  frequencies  of  the  various  transmitters  to  be  received,  the  demodulation  circuit 
for  separating  the  audio-frequency  vibrations  from  the  high-frequency  carrier,  a 
low-frequency  amplifier  stage,  and  the  loudspeaker.  The  amplifier  elements  (high- 
vacuum  tubes  or  transistors)  are  supplied  with  the  necessary  operating  voltages  by 
a  suitable  device.  Corresponding  to  the  frequency  bands  on  which  the  various 
transmitters  operate,  receivers  are  equipped  to  receive  long  waves  (150-285  kilo- 
hertz),  medium  waves  (up  to  1605  kilohertz),  short  waves  (6  to  21.4  megahertz),  and 
ultra-short  waves  (up  to  100  megahertz).  Long,  medium  and  short  wave  reception 
function  with  a  channel  spacing  of  9  kilohertz  and  with  amplitude  modulation  (see 
page  88). The  channel  spacing  in  the  ultra-short  wave  range  is  300  kilohertz,  and  in 
this  range  frequency  modulation  is  employed  (see  page  88).  Reception  here  is  usually 
better  than  in  the  other  ranges,  because  high  audio  frequencies,  which  considerably 
affect  the  sound  pattern,  can  also  be  transmitted.  Besides,  atmospheric  disturbances, 
which  have  an  amplitude-modulating  effect,  are  of  hardly  any  significance  to  this 
kind  of  reception. 

The  propagation  conditions  of  the  four  radio  waves  ranges  determine  their  possi- 
bilities of  application  and  the  purposes  for  which  they  are  used.  Long  and  medium 
wave  transmitters  send  out  a  direct  wave,  which  travels  along  the  earth's  surface, 
and  an  indirect  wave.  In  general,  only  the  direct  wave  is  received  (which  has  a  range 
of  up  to  some  hundreds  of  miles);  the  indirect  wave,  which  is  reflected  back  from  the 
Heaviside  layer  (an  electrically  conducting  layer  about  55  to  85  miles  above  the 
earth's  surface),  makes  much  larger  ranges  possible.  In  the  short  wave  range,  only 
indirect  waves  are  used.  Ultra-short  waves  are  propagated  in  a  quasi-optical  manner 
(the  waves  travel  in  straight  paths),  so  that  they  cannot  travel  beyond  the  optical 
horizon.  To  extend  the  range  as  much  as  possible,  the  transmitting  antenna  is 
installed  at  the  top  of  a  high  mast  or  building. 

The  more  tuning  circuits  that  there  are  arranged  in  series  in  the  radio  receiver,  the 
greater  is  the  selectivity.  In  order  to  obviate  manual  tuning  of  the  many  circuits 
required,  the  superheterodyne  receiver  was  developed  (Fig.  1).  A  receiver  of  this 
kind  comprises  an  oscillator  which  generates  its  own  high-frequency  oscillation, 
which  is  mixed  with  the  oscillation  received  from  the  transmitter.  The  two  circuits 
are  so  tuned  by  means  of  (rotary)  variable  condensers  mounted  on  the  same  spindle1 
that  the  difference  of  the  two  frequencies  is  always  the  same.  All  the  following  circuits 
(intermediate  frequency  filters)  have  been  pre-adjusted  to  this  frequency  difference 
by  the  manufacturer.  In  this  way  a  high  selectivity  is  obtained  and  yet  only  two 
circuits  have  to  be  tuned.  Because  of  the  considerably  higher  carrier  frequency  in 
the  ultra-short  wave  range,  receivers  for  this  range  require  small  tuning  circuits 
which  are  usually  installed  as  complete  assemblies.  In  general,  however,  the  variable 
condensers  are  mounted  on  the  same  spindle,  like  those  used  in  medium  wave 
receivers  (cf.  Fig.  2). 

The  low-frequency  or  audio-frequency  part  of  the  receiver  is  generally  separated 
into  a  number  of  channels  for  high-pitched  and  low-pitched  tones.  Also,  separate 
speakers  for  high  and  low  notes  are  employed.  In  addition  to  the  equipment  described 
here,  there  is  of  course  a  wide  range  of  special  receiving  equipment  designed  for  the 
particular  purpose  for  which  it  is  intended.  Cf.  Alternating  current,  three-phase 
current,  electromagnetic  waves,  page  82  et  seq. 

I.  Shaft  in  U.S.A. 


100 


antenna  (aerial) 


loudspeaker 


intermediate  frequency  filters  (IF) 


mixing 
I    circuit 


I  r-  II 


demodu 
lator 


low- 

frequency 

part 


j  sound  pick-up 


Fig.   1      BLOCK  DIAGRAM  OF  A  SUPERHETERODYNE 
RECEIVER 


tuning  knob 


antenna  (aerial) 


U    ,l 


1  vs— -V" 

tuning  knob  /       /I ft {Y- /Y- A  loudspeaker  and  tone  control 

wave-range  switch 

Fig.  2     DIAGRAM  SHOWING  MAIN  COMPONENTS  OF 
A  RADIO  RECEIVER 


101 


Receiver  mounting  showing  input  circuit,  Albiswerk  Zurich,  Switzerland 

Photo  Roland  Schneider,  Len  Sirman  Press 


LOUDSPEAKER 

A  loudspeaker  is  a  device  for  converting  variations  of  electric  energy  into  corres- 
ponding variations  of  acoustic  energy,  i.e.,  sound.  Its  task  is  therefore  similar  to  that 
of  a  telephone  receiver  (cf.  page  130),  except  that  the  sound  produced  is  much  louder. 
In  fact,  the  early  loudspeakers  were  designed  like  large  telephone  receivers  (Fig.  1): 
mounted  in  front  of  the  poles  of  a  permanent  magnet  whose  field  is  strengthened  and 
weakened  by  the  speaker  current  passing  through  coils  is  a  metal  diaphragm  which 
vibrates  to  the  rhythm  of  the  field  strength  variations  and  transmits  these  vibrations 
to  the  air  as  sound  waves.  To  improve  the  effect,  a  conical  horn  is  fitted  in  front  of  the 
diaphragm.  Because  of  the  restraint  of  the  diaphragm  at  its  edges,  where  it  is  gripped 
in  its  mounting,  the  fidelity  of  the  reproduction  is  adversely  affected,  however.  The 
further  development  of  the  loudspeaker  therefore  had  to  aim  at  achieving,  as  far 
as  possible,  unrestrained  vibration  of  the  diaphragm.  The  first  loudspeakers  in  which 
this  principle  was  applied  were  constructed  as  shown  in  Fig.  2:  the  "diaphragm"  is  a 
resiliently  mounted  paper  cone  which  is  set  in  motion  by  the  armature  which  is 
energised  by  the  speaker  current  which  here,  too,  can  vibrate  freely  in  the  field  of  a 
permanent  magnet. 

A  further  advance  is  represented  by  the  dynamic  loudspeakers  (also  known  as 
moving-coil  loudspeakers).  In  such  speakers  the  "armature"  which  vibrates  in  the 
magnetic  field  consists  of  a  coil  attached  to  the  conical  diaphragm.  In  the  electro- 
dynamic  speaker  (Fig.  3)  the  moving  coil  oscillates  inside  an  electromagnet  which  is 
energised  with  direct  current,  while  in  the  permanent-magnet  moving-coil  speaker 
(Fig.  4)  the  coil  oscillates  in  an  annular  cavity  of  a  specially-shaped  permanent  magnet. 

All  the  loudspeakers  described  above  use  the  electrodynamic  principle  for  the 
conversion  of  electrical  oscillations  into  mechanical  vibrations  which  in  turn  produce 
sound  waves  in  the  air.  Crystal  loudspeakers  (Fig.  5)  and  electrostatic  loudspeakers 
(Fig.  6)  are  based  on  different  principles.  The  crystal  loudspeaker  utilises  the  piezo- 
electric effect,  i.e.,  the  phenomenon  that  certain  crystals  (quartz,  Seignette  salt) 
develop  an  electric  charge  or  potential  difference  when  subjected  to  mechanical 
pressure  and  conversely  undergo  changes  in  thickness  (and  thus  produce  mechanical 
forces)  when  they  are  electrically  charged  by  the  application  of  a  potential  difference. 
Thus,  when  an  alternating  voltage  is  applied,  the  crystal  undergoes  periodic  varia- 
tions in  thickness,  i.e.,  thickness  oscillations,  which  are  transmitted  to  the  loud- 
speaker diaphragm  (Fig.  5).  The  electrostatic  loudspeaker  makes  use  of  the  electro- 
static attractive  and  repulsive  forces  to  which  a  diaphragm  is  subjected  in  the 
electric  field  of  a  condenser  when  the  voltage  applied  to  the  latter  is  made  to  vary. 
The  condenser  plates  are  perforated,  so  that  the  sound  waves  can  emerge  through 
them.  The  two  last-mentioned  types  of  loudspeaker  are  more  particularly  suitable 
for  the  reproduction  of  high  frequencies.  In  high-fidelity  ("hi-fi")  systems  these 
speakers  are  used  in  combination  with  electrodynamic  speakers  to  obtain  sound- 
reproduction  with  a  very  high  degree  of  accuracy  (cf.vol.II,  page  \4etseq.). 


104 


variable  magnetic  field 
moves  the  diaphragm 


resilient  suspension 


electric  current  varies  with  1       1 
the  strength  of  the  sound    T        X 

metal  diaphragm 
Fig.  1      PRINCIPLE  OF  LOUDSPEAKER 


Fig.  3     DYNAMIC  LOUDSPEAKER 


movable  support  of 
diaphragm 


Fig.  5     CRYSTAL  LOUDSPEAKER 


armature 


S 


^y^ 


1 


1 


^  permanent^ 
g  magnet       A 


ify      paper  cone  > 
'///////$%/       (diaphragm) 


Fig.  2     MOVING-IRON  LOUDSPEAKER 


permanent  pot-shaped  magnet 


Fig.  4     DYNAMIC  LOUDSPEAKER 


voltage  varies 
with  the  strength 
of  the  sound 


perforated 
plates 


condenser 


diaphragm 


variable  electric  field  moves 
the  diaphragm 

Fig.  6     ELECTROSTATIC  LOUDSPEAKER 


105 


OVERHEAD  TRANSMISSION    LINES 

The  electric  power  from  the  generating  stations,  which  are  situated  in  regions 
where  coal  or  water  power  is  readily  available,  is  distributed  by  long-distance 
transmission  lines.  These  are  usually  of  the  overhead  type  consisting  of  conductors 
("wires")  suspended  from  lattice  steel  towers.  According  to  Ohm's  law  (U  =  R.I, 
where  U  is  the  voltage,  R  is  the  resistance,  and  /  is  the  current  strength)  the  voltage 
drop  is  greater  in  proportion  as  the  resistance  (i.e.,  the  length)  of  the  line  is  greater 
and  the  current  strength  (amperage)  is  higher.  For  this  reason  it  is  endeavoured  to 
keep  these  two  electrical  quantities  as  small  as  possible.  With  regard  to  reducing  the 
resistance,  one  is  soon  up  against  a  limit,  because  for  reasons  of  economy  and 
weight  it  is  of  course  not  possible  to  increase  the  thickness  of  the  conductors  in- 
definitely. As  for  the  current,  however,  this  can  be  considerably  reduced  by  using 
alternating  current  in  conjunction  with  transformation  (seepage  110).  The  voltage 
drop  along  the  transmission  line  is  thereby  also  reduced. 

A  simple  example  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  1 :  a  220  kilowatt  generator  supplies  a 
current  of  1000  A  at  220  V  to  the  primary  circuit  of  a  high-tension  transformer 
which  increases  the  voltage  a  thousandfold  and  whose  220  kilowatt  output  is 
transmitted  through  a  long-distance  power  line  as  a  current  of  1  A  at  220,000  V. 
Before  the  electric  power  is  supplied  to  the  consumer,  its  voltage  is  transformed 
down  in  the  ratio  of  1000  to  1,  so  that  a  current  of  1000  A  at  220  V  is  again  obtained. 
In  actual  practice  the  high  tension  of  220,000  V  is  usually  first  transformed  down  to 
20.000  or  6000  V  as  an  intermediate  stage,  which  is  used  for  local  distribution  lines, 
the  final  "step-down"  of  the  voltage  to  220  V1  being  performed  in  a  second  trans- 
formation stage  at  or  near  the  consumer's  premises.  Since  the  resistance  of  a  power 
line  to  alternating  current  is  higher  than  its  resistance  to  direct  current,  the  use  of 
alternating  current  involves  additional  losses.  Such  losses  could  be  avoided  by  using 
high-tension  direct  current,  but  this  calls  for  dependable  high-duty  rectifier 
equipment  (see  page  96).  Long-distance  power  transmission  with  direct  current  is 
in  fact  being  tried  out  experimentally  in  various  countries. 

The  high-tension  power  transmission  lines  of  the  various  generating  stations  are 
interconnected  in  a  network  known  as  the  "grid".  A  system  of  this  kind,  of  course, 
requires  elaborate  switchgear.  High-tension  switchgear  and  transformer  equipment 
is  very  often  installed  (suitably  sealed  against  moisture,  etc.)  in  the  open  air. 

Fig.  3  schematically  illustrates  the  distribution  of  electricity  by  means  of  trans- 
mission lines  and  transformers  from  the  power  station  to  the  individual  consumers. 

I.  Consumer  transmission  lines  carry  120  volts  in  U.S.A. 


106 


overhead 

transmission 
line 


220  kilovolt- 
amperes 


1  :  1000 


$  m 
1 

f 

220  V  Vi  ■  ■>»; 

1000  A 

\ 

III; 

:{2s 

1000  :  1  consumer 


transformer 


transformer 


high-voltage  system  220  or  380  kV 


Fig.  3 
HH  =  very  high  voltage      H  =  high  voltage       M  =  medium  voltage      N  =  low  voltage 
/  =  is  transformed  to       §  =  transformation 


107 


EARTHING   (GROUNDING) 

The  substances  of  which  the  earth's  crust  consists  mostly  have  a  moderate  degree 
of  electric  conductivity.  Besides,  the  water  which  is  often  abundantly  present  in  the 
soil  contains  salts  in  solution  and  thus  forms  an  electrolyte  which  conducts  electricity 
fairly  well.  This  means  that  electric  currents  can  pass  through  the  soil  if  differences 
in  potential  (voltage)  occur  at  various  points  of  the  earth's  surface.  Conversely,  any 
potential  difference  will  be  immediately  equalised,  so  that  this  surface  in  effect  con- 
stitutes an  equipotential  surface  (i.e.,  with  a  potential  which  is  the  same  at  all  points). 
Since  measurements  of  potential  are  merely  relative,  the  earth's  potential  is  adopted 
as  a  reference  value  and  is,  for  the  sake  of  convenience,  taken  as  zero.  Electrical 
equipment  or  conductors  which  are  connected  to  the  earth  are  said  to  be  "earthed" 
or  "grounded"  (Figs.  1  and  2),  which  means  that  no  difference  of  potential  in  relation 
to  the  earth  can  occur  in  them.  Earthing  thus  provides  a  safeguard  against  electric 
shocks  to  anyone  who  happens  to  touch  the  metal  parts  concerned.  A  person  who 
touches  a  "live"  metal  part  which  is  not  earthed  is  liable  to  receive  a  shock  (possibly 
a  fatal  one). 

Earthing  can  also  be  utilised  for  obtaining  a  "field-free"  or  "zero  field"  space,  i.e., 
a  space  in  which  there  is  no  electric  field  that  might,  for  example,  disturb  delicate 
electrical  measurements.  For  this  purpose  the  walls  of  the  laboratory  are  lined  with 
wire  netting  or  metal  plates  (and  the  doors  and  windows  are  also  covered  in  this  way) 
which  are  electrically  interconnected  and  earthed.  The  room  is  then  enclosed  in 
equipotential  surfaces  which  have  the  same  potential  as  the  earth,  i.e.,  zero  potential, 
so  that  no  potential  gradient  (differences  in  potential  from  one  point  to  another)  and 
therefore  no  electric  field  can  develop  inside  it.  Faraday  was  the  first  to  apply  this 
principle,  and  for  this  reason  a  space  screened  against  external  fields  is  called  a 
Faraday  cage  (in  particular,  this  term  is  applied  to  an  earthed  wire  cage  surrounding 
apparatus  to  be  protected  from  outside  influence)  (Fig.  3).  The  "pollution"  of  the 
atmosphere  with  electromagnetic  fields  from  a  multitude  of  radio  and  television 
transmitters  has  made  Faraday's  discovery  a  particularly  important  one  for  various 
present-day  scientific  and  technical  purposes.  The  all-metal  body  of  a  modern 
motor  car  also  forms  a  kind  of  Faraday  cage  and  provides  excellent  protection  for 
the  occupants  against  external  electrostatic  influences  (lightning,  in  particular); 
besides,  present-day  motor  tyres  contain  carbon  black  which  makes  the  rubber 
conductive  to  electricity  and  thus  ensures  adequate  earthing.  The  prerequisite  for 
effective  earthing  is  that  the  contact  resistance  between  the  earth  wire  and  the  soil 
should  be  very  low,  i.e.,  very  good  contact  should  be  provided.  Various  methods  of 
establishing  a  good  earth  connection  are  illustrated  in  Figs.  4a-4c:  wide  metal 
strips  (4a)  or  metal  rods  (4c)  well  spread  out  and  buried  deep  in  the  ground; 
connection  to  an  underground  metallic  pipe  system  (e.g.,  water  supply  pipes)  (4b). 


108 


Fig.   1      ELECTRIC  APPLIANCE  EARTHED  BY 
MEANS  OF  A  PROTECTIVE  PLUG 


Fig.  2     EARTHING  OF 
A  LATTICE  PYLON 


Earthed  protective  plug 


Fig.  3     FARADAY  CAGE 
(field-free  space 
inside  it) 


Fig.  4     EARTH  CONNECTION 


Earth  electrode  rods 


109 


TRANSFORMER 

Transformers  are  used  for  "stepping  up"  alternating  current  (and  three-phase 
current)  to  high  voltages  for  long-distance  power  transmission — in  order  to  mini- 
mise the  relative  voltage  losses — and  also  for  "stepping  down"  the  voltage  at  the 
point  of  consumption  (see  page  106). 

The  principle  underlying  the  operation  of  a  transformer  is  closely  associated  with 
Faraday's  law  of  induction,  which  states  that  when  the  magnetic  flux  enclosed  within 
a  circuit  varies,  an  electric  current  which  is  proportional  to  the  rate  of  variation  is 
induced  in  the  circuit.  If  the  magnetic  flux  variation  is  produced  by  means  of  an 
electromagnet  coil  energised  by  alternating  (primary  winding  of  the  transformer), 
an  induced  electric  current  can  be  obtained  from  a  second  coil  (secondary  winding 
of  the  transformer)  through  which  the  varying  magnetic  flux  from  the  first  coil  is 
made  to  pass.  The  two  coils,  i.e.,  the  primary  and  the  secondary  winding,  are  mounted 
on  the  same  iron  core,  so  as  to  obtain  maximum  concentration  of  the  flux.  Trans- 
formation is  characterised  by  its  very  high  efficiency  (98-99%),  practically  the  only 
energy  losses  associated  with  low-frequency  alternating  current  being  heat  losses, 
namely,  heat  developed  in  the  resistance  of  the  copper  windings  (copper  losses)  and 
heat  due  to  eddy  currents  set  up  in  the  iron  core  (iron  losses).  To  minimise  the  eddy 
currents,  the  core  is  laminated,  i.e.,  it  is  made  up  of  a  number  of  thin  iron  plates 
which  are  insulated  from  one  another.  The  iron  losses  additionally  comprise  so- 
called  hysteresis  losses.  Ideally:  IV- /i  =  ^2-^2  (input  voltage  x  input  current  = 
output  voltage  x  output  current).  The  ratio  Ui:lJ2  is  determined  solely  by  the 
ratio  of  the  number  of  turns  of  the  primary  and  secondary  winding  respectively ; 
it  is  called  the  transformation  ratio.  Thus,  if  the  secondary  winding  has  twice  as 
many  turns  as  the  primary  winding,  the  output  voltage  will  be  twice  as  high  as  the 
input  voltage,  but  the  output  current  will  be  only  half  the  input  current  (see  Fig.  1). 

To  step  up  (increase)  the  voltage,  the  secondary  winding  of  the  transformer  has  a 
larger  number  of  turns  of  wire  than  the  primary  winding.  To  step  down  (decrease) 
the  voltage  before  the  current  is  supplied  to  the  consumer,  a  transformer  is  used 
whose  primary  winding  contains  a  larger  number  of  turns  than  the  secondary 
winding.  For  local  distribution  in  a  town  the  high  voltage  of  the  power  grid  is  trans- 
formed down  to,  say,  6000  volts  and  this  in  turn  is  reduced  to  2201  volts  for  distribu- 
tion to  individual  consumers  within  the  limited  area  served  by  the  final  step-down 
transformer.  A  low-voltage  device  such  as  an  electric  bell  (see  page 290)  often  obtains 
its  electricity  from  the  mains  through  a  small  transformer  of  its  own  (called  a  bell 
transformer)  which  gives  current  at  4-8  volts.  Such  a  transformer  is  often  of  the  kind 
known  as  an  auto-transformer,  which  has  only  one  winding,  part  of  which  forms  the 
secondary,  while  the  whole  forms  the  primary,  or  vice  versa.  Its  principle  is  illustrated 
in  Figs.  3a  and  3b.  It  is  cheaper  in  construction  than  a  transformer  with  two  windings, 
and  the  copper  losses  are  lower.  The  ignition  coil  of  an  internal  combustion  engine 
operates  on  the  same  principle,  except  that  it  is  a  step-up  transformer  which  has  to 
deliver  a  high  voltage  for  the  sparking  plugs.  In  this  case  the  low  (primary)  voltage 
is  applied  to  part  of  the  winding  and  the  high  (secondary)  voltage  is  taken  from  the 
whole  winding  (see page206, vol. II). 

A  commonly  employed  type  of  transformer  is  shown  in  Fig.  2.  It  is  wound  in  con- 
centric form,  the  primary  winding  being  within  the  secondary.  The  iron  core  forms 
a  double  closed  magnetic  circuit  (and  is  laminated,  as  already  described).  For 
practical  purposes  this  is  a  more  efficient  design  than  the  so-called  toroidal  trans- 
former in  Fig.  1,  which  merely  serves  to  illustrate  the  principle. 

I.  110/120  volts  in  U.S.A. 


110 


input  voltage  :  output  voltage  —1:2 
input  current :  output  current  =  2:1 


input  current  and  voltage 


output  current  and  voltage 


Fig.   1      TOROIDAL  TRANSFORMER 


primary  winding 


iring  magnetic  field 

mains  largely  within  the 

in  and  causes  electric 

duction  in  the  secondary  winding 


secondary 
winding 


Fig.  2     CORE-TYPE  TRANSFORMER 


I 


Fig.  3a     AUTO-TRANSFORMER 


Fig.  3b     DIAGRAM  SHOWING  PRINCIPLE  OF 
AUTO-TRANSFORMER 


111 


RELAY 


A  relay  is  an  electric  switching  device  comprising  one  or  more  contacts  which 
open  or  close  circuits.  The  switching  device  is  mostly  actuated  by  an  electromagnet 
which  closes  or  opens  the  contacts  by  means  of  a  movable  armature  which  it  attracts 
or  releases.  However,  there  are  also  relays  which  are  operated  by  other  than  electro- 
magnetic forces,  e.g.,  electrical  attraction  forces  or  mechanical  forces  such  as  the 
flexural  force  of  a  bimetallic  strip  in  a  thermo-relay  (cf.  thermostat,  page  26). 

In  this  article  only  the  electromagnetic  relay  will  be  described.  In  a  variety  of  forms 
it  plays  a  very  important  part  in  many  branches  of  electrical  engineering  (tele- 
communication, automatic  control,  computers,  etc.). 

Three  electromagnetic  relays  differing  in  the  design  of  the  armature  are  illustrated 
in  Figs.  1-3.  Each  relay  has  a  coil  of  wire  with  an  iron  core  and  an  iron  yoke  which 
carries  the  movable  armature  (or  may  be  an  integral  feature  of  the  latter).  The  yoke, 
which  serves  as  an  easy  path  for  the  magnetic  flux,  imparts  the  polarity  of  the  rear 
end  of  the  core  to  the  armature,  which  is  thus  powerfully  attracted  by  the  opposite 
polarity  of  the  front  end  of  the  core.  To  prevent  the  armature  from  remaining  sticking 
to  the  core  by  the  action  of  remanent  magnetism  (the  residual  magnetism  which 
remains  in  the  core  even  when  no  current  is  flowing  in  the  coil),  a  small  separator 
stud  made  of  a  non-magnetic  material  (brass)  maintains  an  air  gap  between  the 
armature  and  the  electromagnet  core.  The  current  for  energising  the  coil  is  supplied 
through  the  connections  designated  as  "soldering  lugs".  In  the  relay  in  Fig.  1  the 
contacts  are  normally  open :  when  the  relay  coil  is  energised,  the  core  attracts  the 
armature,  which  presses  the  bottom  contact  up  and  thus  closes  the  contacts,  so  that 
current  then  flows  through  the  working  circuit  by  way  of  the  connections  1  and  2. 
Several  sets  of  contacts  can  be  installed  in  a  relay,  as  in  Figs.  2  and  3 ;  these  are 
simultaneously  actuated  when  the  relay  is  energised.  These  include  normally  closed 
contacts,  which  open  only  when  the  relay  is  energised  and  then  break  the  working 
circuit  in  which  they  are  installed  (connections  2  and  3).  A  type  of  relay  which  is  used 
particularly  in  telegraphy  is  the  polarised  relay  (Fig.  4).  The  armature,  which  carries 
the  contacts  at  its  front  end,  is  suspended  from  a  torsion  wire  and  receives  the 
polarity  of  a  magnetic  north  pole  from  the  suitably  mounted  permanent  magnet. 
The  rear  end  of  the  armature  extends  into  a  gap  in  an  iron  yoke  with  magnetic  south 
polarity.  Mounted  on  this  yoke  is  the  relay  coil  which  produces  the  controlling 
magnetic  flux.  The  superposition  of  the  magnetic  fluxes,  and  therefore  of  the  forces 
exerted,  is  shown  in  Fig.  4.  A  relay  of  this  kind  responds  differently  to  energising 
currents  flowing  in  different  directions. 


112 


Fig.   1 


soldering  lugs 


supporting  plates       contact  springs 

/7  ■ 

w  ebonite  pads 

knife-edge 
(  —  retaining  screw 

armature 

l-j separator  stud 

iron  core 
relay  coil 


Fig.  2 


insulating  plate 


contacts   2 


soldering  lugs 


Fig.  3 


stop 
— r  stop  pad 
^  iron  core 

separator  plate 


armature  retaining  angle 
armature  mounting 


south  pole  is  weakened      f^( 


superimposed  magnetic  field 


Fig.  4     POLARISED  RELAY 


113 


SWITCH 

A  switch  is  a  general  name  for  a  device  used  for  effecting  the  completion  and 
interruption  of  an  electric  circuit.  Fig.  1  shows  a  very  simple  switch  for  low  voltage 
current.  This  type  is  extensively  used  in  telecommunication  engineering  and  for 
many  other  purposes,  e.g.,  in  bell  circuits.  The  switch  lever  is  conductively  connected 
to  the  contact  K  and  can  be  connected  to  either  of  two  alternative  circuits  by  setting 
it  in  the  position  I  or  II.  A  switch  of  this  kind  is  unsuitable  for  heavy  currents  because 
considerable  sparking  would  occur,  more  particularly  on  interruption  of  the  current, 
and  this  could  give  rise  to  dangerous  arc  formation.  To  prevent  this,  the  interruption 
of  the  current  must  be  accomplished  as  speedily  as  possible.  For  this  reason  knife 
switches  are  used.  One  such  switch  is  shown  in  Fig.  2.  The  switch  blade  is  connected 
to  the  lever  by  a  spring.  When  the  operating  lever  is  pulled  out,  the  spring  is  tensioned 
and  then  quickly  pulls  the  blade  out  of  the  contact:  the  brief  interruption  spark 
then  cannot  develop  into  an  arc.  Another  way  to  prevent  arcing  at  the  contacts  is 
embodied  in  the  mercury  switch,  which  is  filled  with  a  protective  gas  (inert  gas, 
nitrogen)  (Fig.  3).  The  switches  used  for  domestic  lighting  purposes  are  turn  switches, 
tumbler  switches  or  push-button  switches  (Figs.  4-6).  In  all  three  types  the  interrup- 
tion of  the  current  is  effected  suddenly,  by  a  kind  of  spring  operated  trigger  action 
which  ensures  rapid  separation  of  the  contacts,  so  that  no  harmful  arcing  occurs. 
Switches  for  very  strong  currents  are  usually  of  the  electromagnetically  operated 
type  (Fig.  7).  High  tension  switchgear  is  often  of  the  oil  break  type,  i.e.,  the  contacts 
are  separated  under  oil  for  the  quick  and  effective  extinction  of  the  arc;  the  oil  also 
serves  as  insulation  (Fig.  8).  Switches  for  very  high  voltages  are  often  of  the  gas- 
blast  type,  in  which  a  blast  of  high  pressure  hydrogen,  air  or  other  gas  is  directed 
on  to  the  arc  at  the  moment  of  separation  of  contacts  to  accelerate  its  extinction 
(Fig.  9). 


114 


twitch  blade 


*    i 

~^>>[i 

"*       «; 

£ 

f 

Fig.   1      SWITCH   FOR   LOW-VOLTAGE   CURRENT  Fig.  2      KNIFE   SWITCH 


Fig.   3        MERCURY   SWITCH 


Fig.   4     TURN   SWITCH 


Fig.   S     TUMBLER   SWITCH 


Fig.   6     PUSH-BUTTON   SWITCH: 

longitudinal  section  (a), 
cross-secfion  (b) 


-*— » 


I — switching  current" 
Fig.   7     ELECTROMAGNETIC   SWITCH 


Fig.   8     OIL-BREAK   SWITCH 


Fig.   9     GAS-BLAST   SWITCH 


115 


SHORT-CIRCUIT  (FUSE) 

If  the  poles  of  an  electric  current  source  are  interconnected  by  a  short  thick  metal 
bar  providing  an  easy  path  for  the  current  (Fig.  la),  a  very  strong  current  will  flow 
and  the  conductors  (wires  or  cables)  will  become  very  hot,  with  an  attendant  fire 
hazard.  According  to  Ohm's  Law,  the  relationship  between  the  voltage  (U),  the 
amperage  or  current  strength  (/)  and  the  resistance  (R)  is  as  follows;  U  =  I.R  or 
/  =  U/R.  From  this  it  appears  that  if  the  resistance  in  an  electric  circuit  becomes 
abnormally  low  in  consequence  of  some  accidental  cause,  the  current  strength  will 
increase  considerably.  This  phenomenon  is  called  short  circuit.  It  is  liable  to  occur 
more  particularly  in  faulty  leads  or  in  electrical  appliances  such  as  a  standard  lamp 
whose  flexible  supply  cord  ("flex")  is  subjected  to  frequent  bending,  as  a  result  of 
which  the  insulation  between  the  two  wires  becomes  damaged  and  allows  them  to 
touch  each  other,  so  that  short  circuit  occurs.  Damage  due  to  short  circuit  is  prevented 
by  the  inclusion  of  fuses  in  electric  circuits.  The  simplest  kind  of  fuse  is  merely  a 
length  of  thin  wire  which,  in  the  event  of  a  short  circuit,  is  heated  rapidly  by  the  ensuing 
high  current  and  melts  away,  thus  interrupting  the  circuit  (Fig.  lb).  Fig.  2  shows  a 
more  sophisticated  fuse  embodying  this  principle.  The  essential  component  is  the 
fuse  cartridge  containing  the  fuse  element  (fusible  wire  or  strip)  embedded  in  sand. 
The  rating  of  the  fuse  element,  i.e.,  the  current  strength  at  which  it  will  melt,  will 
depend  on  the  operating  conditions  and  the  degree  of  safeguard  to  be  provided. 
A  "blown"  fuse  is  recognisable  by  the  fact  that  a  small  coloured  distinctive  disc  on 
the  front  of  the  fuse  has  dropped  off.  The  disc  serves  as  a  colour  code  for  the  fuse 
rating,  e.g.,  a  green  disc  for  a  6-amp.  fuse,  a  red  disc  for  a  10-amp.  fuse,  etc.  When  a 
fuse  has  blown,  the  fuse  cartridge  must  be  removed  and  a  new  cartridge  inserted 
(of  course,  after  the  fault  which  caused  the  short  circuit  has  been  traced  and  remedied). 
The  need  for  fitting  a  new  cartridge  is  obviated  in  the  automatic  cut-out  (or  automatic 
circuit  breaker)  (Figs.  3a  and  3b).  In  a  device  of  this  kind  a  switch  is  held  in  the  "on" 
position  by  means  of  a  catch.  The  catch  can  be  withdrawn  either  by  the  action  of  an 
electromagnet  or  a  bimetallic  strip.  When  this  happens,  the  switch  is  released  and 
springs  open,  thereby  interrupting  the  circuit.  The  electromagnet  is  so  designed  that 
it  is  actuated  by  the  current  in  the  circuit  as  soon  as  this  current  exceeds  a  certain 
predetermined  value.  In  the  other  type,  the  heat  produced  by  the  excessive  current 
in  the  event  of  short  circuit  causes  the  bimetallic  strip  to  bend  and  thus  interrupt 
the  flow  of  current.  When  the  cause  of  the  short  circuit  has  been  eliminated,  the 
automatic  cut-out  can  be  re-set  in  its  operating  position  by  actuation  of  a  push- 
button. A  second  push  button  may  be  provided,  to  enable  the  cut-out  to  be  "tripped" 
manually,  so  as  to  break  the  circuit  at  will. 


116 


voltage  220  volts 


^5^ 


Fig.   1      PRINCIPLE  OF  A  FUSE 


space  for  disc  when 
fuse  has  "blown" 


screw  plug  with 
window 


.switch-operating  magnet 


release  button 


switch-operating 
button 


bimetallic  strip 


Fig.   3a 

AUTOMATIC  CIRCUIT-BREAKER 

(electromagnetic  type) 


3  =  t> 


®L 


_J 


heating  coil 


.__£ 


-VWW^-§ 


Fig.  3b     AUTOMATIC 

CIRCUIT-BREAKER 
(thermal  type) 


117 


ELECTRIC  ARC,  ARC   LAMP 

The  electric  discharge  in  the  form  of  an  arc  is  allied  to  the  gas  discharge  which 
takes  place  when  electricity  is  passed  through  rarefied  gases  and  which  is  the  under- 
lying principle  of  fluorescent  lamps  (see  page  122).  The  arc  discharge  occurs  when 
two  carbon  electrodes  are  brought  into  contact  with  each  other  and  are  then  moved 
apart  a  distance  of  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  (the  voltage  should  be  at  least  55 
volts).  Just  before  the  carbon  rods  separate  and  direct  material  contact  between 
them  is  broken,  such  a  high  electric  resistance  is  developed  at  their  boundary  that 
the  tips  of  the  carbons  begin  to  glow.  This  is  associated  with  the  emission  of  electrons 
(see  page  90),  which,  because  of  the  high  emission  temperatures  (up  to  4000°  C), 
produces  a  high  degree  of  ionisation  of  the  air.  (With  direct  current  the  electrons  are 
emitted  from  the  cathode,  i.e.,  the  negative  electrode;  with  alternating  current  the 
emission  occurs  at  both  electrodes  alternately).  As  a  result  of  this  ionisation,  the  air 
in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  carbon  tips  becomes  conductive  to  electricity,  so 
that  the  current  will  continue  to  flow  when  the  electrodes  are  no  longer  actually 
touching  each  other.  The  bombardment  of  electrons  to  which  it  is  exposed  causes 
the  positive  electrode  (anode),  in  particular,  to  become  white  hot,  and  a"crater" 
forms  at  its  tip.  In  the  actual  arc  itself,  which  merely  gives  off  yellowish  violet  light, 
the  gas  molecules  of  the  air  dissociate.  They  lose  some  of  their  enveloping  electrons 
and  form  a  mixture  of  positive  ions  (electrically  charged  atoms)  and  electrons 
(negatively  charged),  which  is  externally  neutral  and  which,  on  account  of  its  particular 
properties,  is  called  thermal  plasma  (Fig.  1).  The  temperature  of  this  gaseous  state 
can  be  determined  by  spectroscopic  investigations  of  its  dissociated  condition.  It  is 
found  to  be  between  20,000°  and  50,000°  C  in  the  arc.  In  the  arc  lamp  the  arc  serves 
as  a  source  of  light,  but  most  of  the  light  comes  from  the  incandescent  tips  of  the 
carbons  (Fig.  2)  and  especially  from  the  positive  crater  if  the  arc  lamp  is  fed  with 
direct  current  (Fig.  3).  As  the  carbons  burn  away,  they  have  to  be  fed  forward  so  as 
to  keep  the  gap  between  them  fairly  constant.  If  this  gap  becomes  too  large,  the  arc 
will  be  extinguished.  In  modern  arc  lamps  the  electrode  feed  is  performed  automatically 
(Fig.  4).  The  springs  Fj  and  F2  keep  the  carbons  in  contact  with  each  other  when  the 
lamp  is  not  functioning.  When  the  current  is  switched  on,  the  electromagnets  Et 
and  E2  draw  the  carbons  apart  and  thereby  strike  the  arc.  If  the  rate  of  burning 
away  is  too  low,  the  resistance  of  the  arc  will  increase.  As  a  result,  the  current  will 
become  weaker,  the  pull  exerted  by  the  electromagnets  will  diminish,  and  the 
springs  will  draw  the  carbons  closer  together.  This  kind  of  control  mechanism  is 
still  sometimes  used  in  arc  lamps  of  cinema  projectors,  but  high-pressure  gas  dis- 
charge lamps  are  now  superseding  the  arc  lamp  for  this  purpose. 

In  electric  furnaces  the  intense  heat  developed  by  the  arc  discharge  is  utilised  for 
the  melting  of  metals  such  as  steel.  If  the  material  to  be  melted  is  a  poor  conductor 
of  electricity,  the  heat  radiated  by  the  arc  formed  between  two  carbon  electrodes 
is  used  to  melt  it  (Fig.  5).  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  material  does  conduct  electricity, 
then  the  arc  discharge  may  either  be  passed  direct  from  the  electrodes  to  the  material 
(Fig.  6)  or  the  electrodes  may  be  actually  buried  in  the  material  (Fig.  7).  In  both  cases 
the  considerable  heat  developed  in  the  electrodes  helps  the  current  to  generate 
heat' in  the  material  and  thus  attain  the  melting  temperature. 


118 


electrodes 


electrons 


©  0/e    r 
0     (©; 


I     (-L-)     .  lonisation 

Fig.   1     THERMAL  PLASMA 


Fig.  4     AUTOMATICALLY 
CONTROLLED 
ARC  LAMP  (schematic) 


positive 

ions  ©  \  •  '  positive  carbon 


Fig.  2     ALTERNATING  CURRENT  ARC 

negative  carbon 


electromagnets 


Fig.  3     DIRECT  CURRENT  ARC 


return  springs 


Q    applied  voltage  Q 


current  feed 


Fig.  6 


Y/////////////////////////////////////^ 

material  to  be  melted  (poor  conductor) 


material  to  be  melted  (good  conductor) 


material  to  be  melted  (good  conductor) 


119 


PHOTO-ELECTRIC  CELLS 

The  functioning  of  a  photo-electric  cell  (or  photocell)  which  is,  for  example,  an 
important  component  of  an  exposure  meter  (see  page  194),  is  based  on  photo- 
electric effects. 

The  electrons  in  a  metal  can  have  energy  supplied  to  them  by  radiation,  e.g., 
light  rays.  This  is  known  as  photo-electric  effect.  The  energy  of  a  light  quantum 
(photon)  is  imparted  to  the  most  loosely  bound  electron  of  an  atom  (Fig  la).  This 
energy  may  be  sufficient  to  liberate  the  electron  but  not  enough  to  eject  it  entirely 
from  the  metal  (Fig.  lb)  (photo  conductive  effect);  alternatively,  it  may  be  sufficient 
not  only  to  liberate  the  electron  but  also  to  cause  it  to  be  ejected  into  the  vacuum 
(Fig.  lc)  (normal  photo-electric  effect).  The  energy  balance  of  the  elementary  process 
involved  is  given  by  Einstein's  equation : 

hv  =  A  +  j  mt  v2 

where  hv  denotes  the  energy  of  the  photon,  in  which  v  is  the  frequency  of  the  light 
radiation  and  h  is  Planck's  constant  (h  =  6.625  x  10" 21  erg-seconds),  A  denotes 
the  photo-electric  work  function  (i.e.,  the  energy  required  by  a  photon  to  eject  an 
electron  from  a  metal),  me  denotes  the  mass  of  the  electron,  and  v  its  velocity  in 
vacuum.  The  normal  photo-electric  effect  is  applied  in  the  photo-electric  cell  (Fig. 
2a).  The  light-sensitive  photo-cathode,  which  is  usually  installed  in  an  evacuated 
glass  tube,  may  consist  of  a  very  thin  film  of  cesium  deposited  by  vaporisation  on  to 
an  oxidised  silver  base.  For  greater  sensitivity  the  glass  tube  may  be  filled  with  an 
inert  gas  at  low  pressure.  A  battery  in  the  external  circuit  serves  to  amplify  the 
current  by  ionisation  of  the  gas  filling. 

The  photo-conductive  effect  is  utilised  in  the  photo-conductive  cell  (Fig.  2b).  The 
sensitive  material  usually  employed  in  this  case  is  cadmium  sulphide  or  cadmium 
selenide.  These  substances  undergo  changes  in  resistance  in  the  ratio  of  109:1 
between  the  extremes  of  darkness  and  maximum  exposure  to  light. 

When  the  photo-conductive  effect  occurs  at  the  P-N  boundary  of  semiconductors 
(see  page  98)  or  at  the  boundary  between  a  semiconductor  and  a  metal  (e.g.,  cuprous 
oxide  and  copper),  a  potential  difference  will  develop :  this  is  known  as  the  photo 
voltaic  effect,  and  a  cell  of  this  kind  is  called  a  photo-voltaic  cell  (Fig.  2c).  The  cells 
represented  in  Figs.  2a  and  2c  generate  an  electromotive  force  on  their  own  account, 
causing  a  current  to  flow  in  the  circuit  even  if  no  battery  is  included  in  the  circuit, 
whereas  the  photo-conductive  cell  (Fig.  2b)  requires  an  auxiliary  voltage  provided 
by  a  battery.  Photo-electric  cells  are  used  for  a  wide  variety  of  purposes  in  control 
engineering,  for  precision  measuring  devices,  in  exposure  meters  used  in  photo- 
graphy, etc.  They  are  also  used  in  "solar  batteries"  as  sources  of  electric  power  for 
rockets  and  satellites  used  in  space  research.  For  this  purpose  silicon  photo-electric 
cells  are  used;  about  10%  of  the  radiation  energy  which  they  absorb  is  converted 
into  electric  energy. 


120 


metal 


electron 


electron  dislodged 
from  nucleus 


metal 


electron 


metal 


+ 


energy  of  electron 
not  sufficient 
for  ejection 


energy  of 
electron 
sufficient  to 
cause  ejection 


Fig.   1      PHOTO-ELECTRIC  PRINCIPLE 


photo- 
I  I    electric 


Fig.   2b     PHOTO-CONDUCTIVE   EFFECT 
(photo-conductive  cell) 


metal 


g.  2a     PHOTO-ELECTRIC  EFFECT 

(photo-electric  cell) 


non-metal 
e.g.,  semi-conductor) 


photo-electric  current 


Fig.  2c     PHOTO-VOLTAIC  EFFECT 
(photo-voifaic  cell) 


boundary  layer 
electric  current 


121 


FLUORESCENT   LAMP 

The  fluorescent  lamp  is  a  gas  discharge  tube  whose  output  of  light  is  so  increased 
by  special  means  that  it  can  be  used  for  lighting  purposes.  The  inner  surface  of  the 
wall  of  the  tube  is  coated  with  a  light-emitting  substance — usually  fluorescent  or 
phosphorescent  metallic  salts  (calcium  tungstate,  zinc  sulphide,  zinc  silicate).  The 
tube  is  filled  with  mercury  vapour  at  extremely  low  pressure.  The  electrons  ejected 
from  the  incandescent  electrodes  (see  page  90)  collide  with  the  mercury  atoms  and 
cause  these  to  emit  radiation  which  consists  for  the  most  part  of  ultraviolet  rays, 
which  are  invisible.  The  visible  portion  of  the  mercury  vapour  rays  is  situated  in  the 
green  and  blue  range  of  the  spectrum  (see  page  156)  and  gives  a  pale  light.  The  ultra- 
violet light  strikes  the  fluorescent  substance  with  which  the  wall  of  the  tube  is  coated 
and  causes  this  substance  to  emit  radiation  with  a  longer  wavelength  in  the  visible 
range  of  the  spectrum  —  i.e.,  the  coating  transforms  the  invisible  rays  into  visible 
light.  By  suitable  choice  of  the  fluorescent  substance,  this  light  can  be  given  any 
desired  colour.  The  lamp'  has  to  be  operated  with  a  choke,1  which  prevents  a  harmful 
rise  in  voltage  and  serves  to  ignite  the  lamp.  For  this  purpose  a  small  auxiliary  glow 
lamp  provided  with  a  thermal  contact  is  connected  in  parallel  with  the  main  lamp. 
When  the  current  is  switched  on,  the  glow  lamp  first  lights  up  (the  bimetallic  thermal 
contact  is  then  open).  This  causes  the  bimetallic  strip  to  warm  up  and  close  the 
contact,  with  the  result  that  the  glow  lamp  is  short-circuited  and  the  cathodes  of  the 
main  lamp  receive  the  full  current  that  makes  them  incandescent.  The  bimetallic 
strip  cools  and  breaks  the  contact.  Through  the  agency  of  the  choke  this  interruption 
of  the  circuit  produces  a  voltage  surge  which  is  high  enough  to  initiate  the  discharge 
in  the  fluorescent  lamp  itself.  Because  it  is  bypassed  by  the  main  lamp,  the  small 
auxiliary  lamp  then  ceases  to  function.  The  bimetallic  strip  (cf.  page  26)  keeps  the 
contact  open.  The  cathodes  of  the  main  lamp  are  kept  glowing  at  white  heat  by  the 
impingement  of  positive  mercury  ions,  and  the  lamp  thus  continues  to  function  and 
emit  light  in  the  manner  described.  The  light  of  a  fluorescent  lamp  is  not  produced 
by  an  incandescent  body  (such  as  the  filament  of  an  ordinary  electric  lamp),  but 
is  emitted  as  a  result  of  the  excitation  of  atoms  (namely,  those  of  the  mercury  vapour 
and  the  fluorescent  coating)  and  is  extremely  economical.  Because  of  the  large  light- 
emitting  area,  a  fluorescent  lamp  gives  a  pleasant  light  which  produces  only  soft 
shadows. 

1.  Starter  in  U.S.A. 


122 


choke 


•"- 


O  220  V    q_ 


hot  cathode 


fluorescent  coating 


ultra-violet  radiation  (invisible)  of 
the  mercury  atoms  causes 
fluorescent  substance 
to  emit  visible  rays  of  light 


mercury  vapour  filling 

electrons  excite  mercury  atoms  to 
emit  ultra-violet  rays 


colliding  electrons 


^±H-° 


electron  paths  of  inner  shells 

mercury  atom 
shell  electron 


glow  lamp 
bimetallic  contact 


visible  light  _^__  .  /'  "~  \      \\N 

M1M1I111I1III1I1I1I1I1I11I11I1II1I11I1III1I1II1) Willi Hllllllllir 


ultra-violet  radiation 


fluorescent  coating 


123 


X-RAYS 

When  a  stream  of  very  fast  high-energy  electrons  strikes  a  metallic  electrode 
(anode),  the  electrons  are  slowed  down,  and  some  of  them  penetrate  into  the  metal 
(Fig.  1).  The  sudden  "braking"  of  the  electrons  produces  an  electromagnetic  radiation 
of  very  short  wavelength :  X-rays  or  Roentgen  rays.  This  radiation  is  generated  by 
electrons  penetrating  into  the  metal  and  interacting  with  the  metal  atoms.  It  shows 
well-defined  wavelengths  which  are  characteristic  of  the  structure  of  the  metal 
forming  the  anode :  a  high-energy  electron  which  penetrates  into  the  metal  atom 
may  dislodge  one  of  the  inner  electrons  of  that  atom ;  the  vacant  place  is  taken  by 
one  of  the  outer  electrons  which  thus  leaps  from  an  outer  to  an  inner  "shell"  and, 
in  doing  so,  emits  energy  in  the  form  of  radiation,  i.e.,  X-rays. 

These  rays  were  discovered  by  W.  Rontgen,  a  German  physicist,  in  1895.  Their 
nature  was  unknown  to  him,  and  he  accordingly  referred  to  them  as  "X-rays",  a 
name  which  has  persisted  more  particularly  in  the  English-speaking  countries. 
Technical  forms  of  construction  of  X-ray  tubes  are  illustrated  in  Figs.  3  and  4. 
As  a  rule,  the  stream  of  electrons  (such  electrons  issuing  from  a  cathode  are  called 
"cathode  rays")  is  not  directed  against  the  actual  anode,  but  against  the  anticathode, 
which  forms  a  target  for  bombardment.  The  impingement  of  the  electrons  against 
the  anticathode  causes  the  latter  to  become  very  hot,  and  it  may  be  necessary  to 
cool  it  or  to  design  it  as  a  rotating  anode,  so  that  the  cathode  rays  are  always  beamed 
on  a  fresh  area  of  the  anode  surface  (cf.  page  156,  vol.  II). 

Because  of  their  short  wavelength  (10-8  to  10~12  cm)  X-rays  can  pass  through 
objects  which  are  opaque  to  ordinary  light,  and  shadow  images  of  such  objects 
can  be  made  visible  on  a  fluorescent  screen  coated  with  barium  platinocyanide. 
When  X-rays  pass  through  crystalline  substances,  diffraction  phenomena  occur 
which  reveal  the  wave  character  of  this  radiation.  An  interference  pattern  (cf.  page 
156)  composed  of  a  regular  arrangement  of  dots  can  be  formed  on  a  photographic 
plate,  and  these  provide  information  as  to  the  crystal  structure  of  the  material 
concerned.  Such  diffraction  patterns  were  first  studied  scientifically  by  M.  von 
Laue,  and  they  are  known  as  Laue  X-ray  patterns  (Fig.  5). 


124 


continuous  radiation  (due  to 
"braking"  of  electrons) 


anode  (anticathode) 


inner  electron  shell 
of  lower  energy 


nucleus  of  atom 

\ 

inner  electron  shell  of 
highest  energy 


Fig.   5     LAUE  X-RAY  PATTERN  (zinc  bfende) 


X-rays 


125 


CYCLOTRONS  AND  SIMILAR   DEVICES 

Scientists  engaged  in  research  into  the  structure  of  the  atom  use  high -energy 
"projectiles"  for  bombarding  the  atom.  Elementary  particles  (e.g.,  electrons)  make 
very  suitable  projectiles  because  they  mostly  have  an  electric  charge,  so  that  they  can 
be  accelerated  by  electromagnetic  fields.  The  acceleration  is  usually  produced  by 
causing  the  particles  to  travel  in  circular  paths,  and  for  this  reason  the  various 
machines  used  for  the  purpose  are  known  collectively  as  "circular  accelerators". 

The  betatron  (Fig.  1)  resembles  a  transformer  (seepage  110)  in  its  general  con- 
struction :  an  iron  core  is  provided  with  an  exciting  winding  (corresponding  to  the 
primary  winding  of  a  transformer)  through  which  an  alternating  current  flows. 
Instead  of  a  secondary  winding,  however,  the  betatron  has  an  evacuated  annular 
tube  into  which  electrons  are  shot.  In  consequence  of  magnetic  induction  (see 
page  76),  an  annular  alternating  electric  field  (rotational  field)  is  produced  in  the 
tube.  This  field,  whose  direction  is  perpendicular  to  that  of  the  magnetic  field,  can 
have  a  retarding  as  well  as  an  accelerating  effect  on  the  electrons.  Since  acceleration 
is  required,  an  intermittent  mode  of  operation  is  applied.  The  electrons  are  shot  into 
the  annular  tube  at  the  instant  when  the  alternating  electric  field  attains  its  maximum 
strength.  During  the  next  quarter  period  of  the  alternating  field  strength  the  electrons 
are  accelerated  by  the  field,  while  the  field  strength  continuously  decreases.  The 
electrons  must  be  removed  from  the  annular  tube  not  later  than  the  end  of  this 
quarter  period,  for  otherwise  they  would  be  decelerated  in  the  following  half  period. 

According  to  the  conventional  theory  of  electrodynamics  the  rotational  frequency 
of  an  electrically  charged  particle  travelling  in  a  circular  orbit  in  a  magnetic  field  is 
independent  of  the  radius  of  its  orbit.  The  energy  of  the  particle  increases  with  its 
velocity.  The  operation  of  the  cyclotron  is  based  on  these  principles.  The  evacuated 
acceleration  chamber  is  mounted  in  a  homogeneous  magnetic  field  between  the 
poles  of  a  powerful  electromagnet,  as  shown  in  Fig.  2a.  The  actual  vacuum  chamber 
is  shown  (in  plan)  in  Fig.  2b.  Ions  (electrically  charged  atoms)  are  produced  by  a 
source  at  the  centre  of  the  chamber  and  are  forced  to  travel  along  circular  orbits  by 
the  magnetic  field.  As  their  circular  frequency  is  constant,  the  ions  can  be  accelerated 
by  means  of  a  high-frequency  alternating  electric  field  of  the  same  frequency.  This 
is  done  with  the  aid  of  two  hollow  semicircular  electrodes  (called  "dees")  to  which 
a  high-frequency  oscillating  voltage  is  applied.  Each  time  an  ion  passes  from  one 
dee  into  the  other,  it  is  accelerated  by  the  electric  field  that  exists  in  the  gap  between 
the  two  dees.  This  does  not  cause  any  change  in  the  rotational  frequency,  but  it 
does  increase  the  velocity  of  the  ion,  with  the  result  that  the  radius  of  its  orbit  increases. 
The  ion  thus  progressively  acquires  more  and  more  energy  and  moves  into  orbits  of 
increasingly  large  radius,  i.e.,  it  moves  in  a  spiral  path,  until  it  is  finally  deflected 
(by  means  of  a  deflecting  condenser)  out  of  the  vacuum  chamber  at  the  periphery. 

Whereas  the  cyclotron  is  used  for  the  acceleration  of  particles  in  the  low  velocity 
range,  the  synchrotron  (Fig.  3)  is  an  accelerator  for  particles  with  velocities  approach- 
ing the  velocity  of  light.  The  operating  principle  of  the  two  machines  is  very  similar, 
however.  As  distinct  from  what  happens  in  the  cyclotron,  in  the  synchrotron  both 
the  orbit  radius  of  the  particle  and  the  rotational  frequency  remain  constant, 
whereas  the  magnetic  field  increases  (just  as  in  the  betatron).  The  fact  that  the  energy 
of  the  particles  increases  despite  the  fact  that  their  velocity  remains  nearly  constant 
is  something  that  can  be  explained  only  with  the  aid  of  the  relativity  theory:  when  the 
particle  velocity  becomes  almost  equal  to  the  velocity  of  light,  even  a  small  increase 
in  velocity  will  result  in  a  considerable  increase  in  the  mass  (and  therefore  the  energy) 
of  the  particle.  The  gain  in  energy  achieved  in  the  synchrotron  is  therefore  due,  not 
to  a  velocity  increase,  but  to  an  increase  in  mass. 


126 


exciting  winding 


op 


circular  electron  path 
yo  e  /\  magnetic  flux 


annular 

tube 

(secondary) 


Fig.   1      BETATRON 


exciting  windings  (primary) 


exciting  windings 


heating  wires  for 
source  of  ions 

high-! 

frequency     'nsul°t°r 
vacuum  ,1 

chamber  vo,|,a9e 


lower  pole  shoe 


wall  of 

vacuum  chamber 


target 


semicircular  electrodes  (dees) 


beam  of  emerging 
path  of  ion  during  'ons 

acceleration 


Fig.  2     CYCLOTRON 


controlling  magnetic  field 
(perpendicular  to  plane  of 
drawing)  increases  with  time 


exciting  windings 


Fig.  3     SYNCHROTRON 


127 


TELECOMMUNICATION 

Telecommunication,  in  its  widest  sense,  is  as  old  as  mankind's  need  for  ways  and 
means  of  exchanging  information  over  long  distances.  In  ancient  times  and  during 
the  middle  ages,  visual  signals  were  usually  employed  for  the  purpose,  in  the  form  of 
beacon  fires  lit  on  top  of  towers  or  on  hills  and  visible  a  long  way  off.  Of  course,  only 
a  limited  number  of  prearranged  messages  could  be  communicated  by  such  means. 
A  later  and  more  sophisticated  method  of  visual  signalling  was  the  semaphore,  a 
device  provided  with  movable  arms  which  could  be  set  in  various  positions  to  spell . 
out  letters  and  words.  Signalling  by  means  of  flags  or  lamps,  and  the  hoisting  and  i 
lowering  of  signal  balls,  as  are  still  commonly  employed  in  navigation,  also  belong: 
to  the  general  category  of  communication  by  visual  signals.  Telecommunication] 
in  the  modern  sense  developed  only  after  the  discovery  of  the  magnetic  effect  of  I 
electric  current.  The  first  telegraph  consisted  of  a  compass  needle  which  was  deflected  I 
by  the  magnetic  field  produced  by  electric  currents  which  flowed  through  the  circuit 
whenever  the  transmitting  key  was  depressed  and  contact  established  (Fig.  1).  A 
further  advance  in  electrical  telecommunication  was  the  invention  of  the  Morse 
telegraph :  an  electromagnetically  actuated  stylus  records  long  and  short  dashes — 
forming  a  code  named  Morse  code  after  its  inventor — on  a  moving  strip  of  paper 
(cf.  page  134).  In  the  latter  half  of  the  last  century  a  further  advance  was  made  by  the 
invention  of  the  telephone  (and  microphone)  so  that  it  then  became  possible  to  trans- 
mit speech-modulated  current  fluctuations  over  long  distances  (Fig.  3). 

The  current  fluctuations  are  transmitted  either  through  overhead  wires,  through 
cables,  or  through  the  medium  of  radio  communication  (Fig.  4).  The  electric  current 
or  the  radio  waves  can  be  modulated  in  various  ways  to  carry  the  message :  amplitude 
modulation  (Fig.  5),  i.e.,  variations  in  current  strength,  or  frequency  modulation, 
i.e.,  variations  in  the  timing  of  the  zero  values  of  the  current  (Fig.  6),  or  pulse  modu- 
lation (Fig.  7). 

As  the  transmission  of  messages  over  long  distances,  whether  by  cable  or  by 
radio,  is  very  expensive,  the  problem  of  simultaneous  multiple  utilisation  had  to  be 
tackled.  It  was  solved  by  means  of  carrier  wave  communication :  a  high-frequency 
current  is  modulated  in  various  frequency  ranges.  For  telephony  a  band  width  of 
3600  cycles/sec.  is  adopted  for  each  range  and  is  adequate  for  the  intelligible  trans- 
mission of  speech.  Each  range  of  this  kind  is  comparable  to  a  wire  or  cable  and  is 
called  a  channel.  The  frequency  band  of  a  telephony  channel  can,  for  example,  be  sub- 
divided into  24  telegraphy  channels.  In  this  way  it  is  possible  to  cater  for  the  needs  of 
subscribers  to  the  teleprinter  (telex)  system.  Filtering  out  the  individual  channels  is 
done  by  means  of  electric  filter  systems.  For  the  transmission  of  the  high-frequency 
carrier  oscillations  the  cables  are  of  the  so-called  coaxial  type  (Fig.  8) :  a  flexible 
metal  sheath  contains  a  coaxial  conductor  which  is  held  in  position  by  highly 
insulating  material.  As  a  rule,  the  cable  also  contains  various  subsidiary  wires  for 
low-frequency,  i.e.,  direct,  transmission  purposes.  In  a  coaxial  cable  of  this  kind  up 
to  2880  telephony  channels  can  be  accommodated  in  the  coaxial  conductor  and  in 
the  subsidiary  wires.  The  coaxial  core  (tube)  is  additionally  suitable  for  the  trans- 
mission of  a  television  channel. 

Fresh  possibilities  in  electric  telecommunication  have  been  opened  up  by  pulse 
techniques  and  other  modern  developments  which  form  the  basis  of  data  processing 
(see  page  334).  Also,  practical  applications  of  masers  and  lasers  (see  page  94)  are 
likely  to  leave  their  mark  on  present-day  telecommunication  methods. 


128 


paper  strip 


Fig.   1 


Fig.  2 


microphone 


Fig.  3     TELEPHONY 


telephone 


Fig.   4     RADIO 

COMMUNICATION 


loudspeaker 


orrent  strength 

low-frequency  vibration 
(message) 


high-frequency  carrier  wave 


py. 

Fig.  5 


time 


current  strength 

low-frequency  vibration 
(message) 


high-frequency  carrier  wave 
passage  through  zero 


MIMA 


time 


Fig.  6 


current  strength 


_^_  time 


Fig.   7        pulse 


u 


sheath 


coaxial  conductor 
subsidiary  wires 


Fig.   8      COAXIAL  CABLE 


129 


TELEPHONES  AND  TELEPHONE    EXCHANGES 

The  basic  problem  in  telephony  consists  in  converting  acoustic  into  electric 
energy  and  vice  versa.  The  first  part  of  the  problem  is  solved  by  means  of  the  carbon 
microphone  in  which  carbon  granules  are  compressed  to  a  greater  or  less  degree  by 
a  diaphragm,  so  that  their  resistance  varies  with  the  acoustic  pressure.  This  in  turn 
produces  corresponding  fluctuations  in  the  current,  which  are  transmitted  —  through 
a  transformer  called  a  repeating  coil  —  to  the  telephone  receiver.  The  latter  comprises 
a  U-shaped  permanent  magnet  whose  legs  are  provided  with  coils  which  are  ener- 
gised by  the  telephone  current.  The  fluctuations  in  the  strength  of  the  magnetic 
field,  and  these  correspondingly  move  the  steel  diaphragm,  which  in  turn  transmits 
its  vibrations  to  the  air  in  the  form  of  audible  sound  waves  (Fig.  1).  As  an  alternative 
to  the  carbon  microphone  the  condenser  microphone  may  be  employed  (Fig.  2). 
This  is  a  more  sensitive  instrument.  Its  diaphragm,  in  conjunction  with  a  fixed 
counter  electrode,  forms  a  condenser  whose  capacity  varies  with  the  vibrations  of 
the  diaphragm.  The  direct  voltage  applied  in  the  circuit  thereby  has  an  alternating 
voltage  superimposed  upon  it. 

The  interconnection  of  two  subscribers  in  the  central  battery  system  is  indicated 
diagrammatically  in  Fig.  3.  With  manual  switching  (Fig.  4)  the  connection  with  the 
desired  subscriber  is  effected  through  various  exchanges  (local  exchange,  trunk 
exchange,  zone  centre,  trunk  exchange,  local  exchange).  The  connections  are  routed 
through  subscriber's  lines  (AL),  interoffice  trunks  (VL),  and  trunk  lines  (FL). 
In  the  automatic  long  distance  service  the  connections  are  nowadays  still  usually 
established  by  means  of  mechanical  selector  units  (two-motion  selectors).  When  the 
subscriber  dials  the  desired  number,  electrical  impulses,  corresponding  to  the  res- 
pective numbers,  are  transmitted  along  the  telephone  line  and  actuate  a  selector  at 
the  telephone  exchange  (Figs.  5  and  6). 

A  selector  is  an  automatically  actuated  multiple  contact  switch  or  other  device 
which  makes  contact  with  any  desired  circuit.  In  the  two-motion  type  the  wiper  can 
move  vertically  step  by  step  from  one  tier  of  contacts  to  another,  and  at  each  tier  it 
can  swing  horizontally  to  any  particular  contact.  These  movements  are  controlled 
by  the  current  impulses  transmitted  by  dialling.  For  each  figure  dialled,  a  correspond- 
ing number  of  impulses  of  current  reaches  the  selector,  causing  the  wiper  to  move 
automatically  to  the  correct  tier  and  to  the  correct  individual  contact  corresponding 
to  the  figure  dialled. 


130 


microphone       repeating  coil 
[/carbon  granules    . 


telephone 


current  varies 
proportionally 
to  change  in  capacity 

-IC 


Jl     U 


J I 


'  counter-electrode 

"mnnd  ,elephone 


Fig.   1      CARBON  MICROPHONE   AND  TELEPHONE 


+  1    - 

9.  2     CONDENSER  MICROPHONE 


Fig.   3     CENTRAL   BATTERY  SYSTEM 


subscriber  1 
AL 


local  trunk  trunk  local 

exchange  exchange  zone  centre        exchange  exchange 


o 


a 


VL 


□ 


FL 


□ 


FL 


□ 


VL 


□ 


subscriber  2 

AL 


O 


Fig.  4     MANUAL  SWITCHING 


wiper 

itch  for 
ertical  motion 


ng  magnet 


tiers  of  contacts 
wiper  spindle 


catch  for  rotation 


rotation  magnet 


return  spring 


TTUV^a 


s 


Fig.   5     TWO-MOTION   SELECTOR 


Fig.  6     SELECTOR  UNIT  FOR 

THREE-STAGE  CONNECTION 


131 


Motor  for  automatic  telephone  connection 
Photo  Roland  Schneider,  Len  Sirman  Press 


TELEGRAPHY,   TELETYPEWRITER 


After  the  discovery  of  electromagnetism  in  the  first  part  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
inventors  strove  to  utilise  it  for  the  transmission  of  messages  by  electricity.  After 
the  promising  tests  carried  out  by  Gauss  and  Weber  at  the  University  of  Gottingen, 
Germany,  in  1833,  Morse  developed  a  reliably  functioning  telegraph  apparatus  and 
a  workable  code  (Morse  alphabet).  In  its  present  form  the  Morse  apparatus  has  a 
strip  of  paper  which  is  unwound  from  a  supply  reel  and  slides  past  an  inked  printing 
wheel.  When  at  rest,  this  wheel  does  not  touch  the  paper  strip,  but  when  a  message 
is  being  received,  the  wheel  is  pressed  against  the  moving  strip  for  shorter  or  longer 
periods  of  time  by  means  of  an  electromagnet,  so  that  a  series  of  "dots"  and  "dashes" 
are  produced  (Fig.  1).  The  International  Morse  code  is  as  follows: 


Alphabet 
a 

h     •••• 

Numerals 

q        -■-                       1     - 

a       -  •  - 

i 

r     •-•                         2  •• 

a    • 

b 

J     • 

k    — - 

s    ...                           3  

t    -                              4  •■■•- 

c 

1      •-•■ 

u     •-                         5 

ch 

m  — 

Q 6  -■■■■ 

d    -•  • 
e 

n    -  • 

n    —  •  — 

v    •••-                        7  --■•• 
w 8 •  • 

e    ••--•• 

o 

x 9 • 

f     •■-• 

6 • 

y   -•-                         0- 

g    --■ 

P     --• 

z 

Punctuation 
apostrophe 
colon 
comma 

marks 

hyphen        -••••• 
parenthesis  -  •  — 
period          

question  mark            ..__.. 
quotation  mark          ■_••_■ 
Distress  signal  (SOS)    ■  •  ■ •  • 

Subsequent  inventors  aimed  at  achieving  direct  transmission  of  characters,  i.e., 
letters  of  the  alphabet,  instead  of  having  to  use  a  code.  The  latest  stages  in  this  process 
of  development  are  the  Hell  printing  telegraph  (Fig.  2)  and  the  teletypewriter  (or 
teleprinter)  (Fig.  3).  Both  these  devices  make  use  of  an  alphabet  produced  by  current 
impulses  on  the  step-by-step  principle.  This  alphabet  operates  with  a  five-unit 
code  comprising  seven  current  steps  and  five  separating  steps.  The  trains  of  impulses 
are  timed  by  means  of  synchronised  camshafts  rotating  in  the  transmitting  and  in  the 
receiving  instrument  respectively  (7  r.p.m.).  The  various  code  signals  (characters) 
correspond  to  different  notches  in  the  permutation  bars  in  the  transmitter.  When 
the  keys  are  depressed,  these  bars  shift  to  different  positions  and  thereby  control  the 
current  impulses  sent  (Fig.  3a).  In  the  receiver,  slotted  combination  bars  are  similarly 
so  displaced  in  relation  to  one  another  that  only  that  type  bar  which  corresponds 
to  the  transmitted  code  signal  engages  with  the  slots  in  the  bars  and  thus  prints  a 
particular  character  on  a  sheet  or  strip  of  paper  (Fig.  3b).  These  bar  movements  are 
produced  by  an  electromagnet.  The  teletypewriter  looks  like  a  large  desk  typewriter. 
One  and  the  same  apparatus  can  be  used  for  transmitting  and  receiving. 

Another  branch  of  telegraphy  is  picture  telegraphy  (or  phototelegraphy1):  a 
photograph  attached  to  a  revolving  drum  is  scanned  point  by  point  in  a  spiral  pattern 
by  a  beam  of  light.  The  reflected  light  causes  photo-electric  cells  (see  page  120)  to 
produce  currents  of  varying  strength  which  correspond  to  the  variations  in  brightness 
of  the  individual  points  of  the  photograph  (Fig.  4a).  At  the  receiving  end,  a  glow  lamp 
transforms  the  current  variations  into  variations  of  brightness  of  a  light  spot  (P) 
which  is  focused  on  to  photographic  paper  (Fig.  4b). 

I.  Wire-photo  in  U.S.A. 


134 


paper  strip 


transmitter  It 


printing  wheel 


g.   1     MORSE  TELEGRAPHY  WITH  OPEN-CIRCUIT  WORKING 


printing  spiral 


stter  in  code  and 
orresponding  cam 

ig.  2     MODE  OF  FUNCTIONING  OF  THE  PRINTING  TELEGRAPH 

52 


code  cams  --"""3 


itarting  and 
arresting  cam 


ontact  springs 


a) 


permutation  bar  of 
transmitter 


electromagnet  =: 


movement  of  type  bars 
as  in  a  typewriter 


b)         1 


transmitted  pulses  arriving 


receiving  magnet 
armature 

armature  control 
lever 


ig.  3     MODE  OF  FUNCTIONING  OF  THE  TELETYPEWRITER 
picture  drum     _     '_  photo-electric  cells 


f\ 


0 


amplificati 


♦  ♦ 


plification 


light  source 
-  hole  disc 


picture  drum 


rectification  and  amplification 


glow  lamp  with  lens 


ig.  4     MODE  OF  FUNCTIONING  OF  THE  PHOTOTELEGRAPH 


135 


RADAR 

The  name  "radar"  has  been  derived  from  the  initial  letters  of  the  phrase  "radio 
detecting  and  ranging' .  It  denotes  a  method  of  scanning  the  surrounding  space  by 
means  of  high-frequency  radio  waves  which  are  sent  out  from  a  powerful  transmitter 
and  are  reflected  by  any  objects  which  they  encounter.  The  reflected  beam  is  picked 
up  by  a  receiver ;  its  strength  and  direction  gives  information  on  the  size,  distance, 
altitude,  etc.  of  the  object. 

If,  for  example,  an  observer  in  an  aircraft  wishes  to  survey  by  radar  the  terrain 
over  which  he  is  flying  (Fig.  1),  a  rotating  radar  beam  is  directed  downward  from  the 
aircraft.  The  beam  scans  a  circular  area  in  the  form  of  a  sector  which  sweeps  round 
and  round.  Depending  on  the  nature  of  the  reflecting  objects  (in  this  case  these  are 
located  on  the  surface  of  the  earth),  the  intensity  of  the  reflected  beam  will  vary 
(Fig.  2).  The  transmission  and  reception  of  the  high-frequency  waves  are  effected 
in  the  radar  apparatus  (Fig.  3).  The  radar  waves  are  generated  in  the  transmitter, 
which  is  equipped  with  radio  tubes  of  special  design  (klystron,  magnetron :  see  page 
92  el  seq).  The  transmitting  antenna  usually  also  functions  as  the  receiving  antenna 
(periodic  change-over).  The  reflected  beam  is  picked  up  by  the  receiver  and  the 
corresponding  electric  currents  are  used  to  deflect  an  electron  beam  in  a  cathode- 
ray  tube  (see  page  148).  The  beam  is  so  deflected  that  it  scans  the  luminescent  screen 
from  the  centre  to  the  edge  while  it  rotates  at  the  same  speed  as  the  antenna.  An 
echo  picked  up  by  the  receiver  strengthens  the  flow  of  electrons  in  the  tube,  causing 
a  point  of  light  to  appear  on  the  screen  and  to  remain  visible  by  phosphorescent 
afterglow  until  fresh  echoes  are  picked  up  on  the  next  revolution  of  the  scanning 
antenna.  In  this  way  the  points  of  light  build  up  a  picture  of  the  area  (or  space) 
scanned  by  the  radar  beam.  The  brightness  of  the  display  of  the  signal  (the  radar 
echo)  on  the  luminescent  screen  of  the  cathode  ray  tube  depends  on  the  reflecting 
power  of  the  object  with  regard  to  the  high-frequency  radio  waves  sent  out  by  the 
radar  transmitter.  For  this  reason  a  radar  image  generally  looks  quite  different 
from  an  optical  image,  though  as  a  rule  they  will  have  the  same  outlines  (Fig.  4). 

Most  radar  sets  employ  pulse  radar.  This  is  so  called  because  the  transmitter 
sends  out  short  intense  bursts  or  pulses  of  energy  with  a  relatively  long  interval 
between  pulses.  The  receiver  is  active  during  this  interval.  When  sufficient  time  has 
elapsed  to  permit  the  reception  of  echoes  from  the  most  distant  objects  of  interest, 
the  transmitter  sends  another  short  pulse,  and  the  cycle  repeats. 


136 


powerful  echo 


Fig.  3     DIAGRAM  OF  A  RADAR 
INSTALLATION 


flat  land 

Fig.  4     HOW  A   HURRICANE  APPEARS 
ON   A  RADAR  SCREEN 

■s*      ...         '      .  J° 


^> 


C? 


% 


change- 

'     over     control 

[    1 O 

cathode-ray  tube 
—  reception 


^ 


137 


Radar  antennae 
Photo  Pierre  Berger,  Len  Sirman  Press 


/ 


PHOTOMULTIPLIER 

An  electron  multiplier  is  a  device  which  employs  secondary  emission  (the  ejection 
of  electrons  as  a  result  of  the  impact  of  charged  particles)  from  solids  to  produce 
current  amplification.  A  photomultiplier  is  an  electron  multiplier  tube  in  which  the 
bombarding  electrons  initiating  the  cascade  are  due  to  photo-emission,  i.e.,  the 
emission  of  electrons  from  a  substance  by  subjecting  it  to  electro-magnetic  radiation 
such  as  light,  X-rays,  etc.  Magnesium  oxide  and  caesium  oxide  layers  exhibit  a 
particularly  strong  secondary  emission  of  electrons.  The  number  of  secondary 
electrons  released  depends  upon  the  kinetic  energy  of  the  primary  electrons  (the 
bombarding  electrons)  and  therefore  upon  the  voltage  whereby  the  primary  electrons 
are  accelerated.  At  low  voltages,  on  an  average,  less  than  one  secondary  electron 
is  released  per  incident  primary  electron.  Only  when  the  secondary  emission  factor 
is  larger  than  unity,  i.e.,  when  the  number  of  secondary  electrons  is  greater  than  the 
number  of  primary  electrons,  can  one  speak  of  "multiplication".  This  usually  occurs 
at  acceleration  voltages  above  100  volts  (for  the  primary  electrons).  For  magnesium 
and  caesium  oxide  layers  the  secondary  emission  factor  has  values  above  10,  i.e., 
a  more  than  tenfold  multiplication  is  obtained.  The  multiplication  can  be  further 
increased  by  connecting  a  number  of  secondary  emission  electrodes  in  series. 

If  the  beam  of  photo-electrically  liberated  primary  electrons  is  allowed  to  impinge 
upon  a  row  of  electrodes  provided  with  a  secondary  emission  coating,  amplification 
values  up  to  109  times  the  primary  radiation  can  be  obtained.  The  irregularity  of 
the  electron  flow  which  is  affected  by  thermal  phenomena  (thermal  noise)  sets  a 
limit  to  further  multiplication.  The  electrodes  can  be  formed  as  wire  gauze  electrodes 
(Fig.  1)  or  as  hollow  electrodes  (Fig.  2).  If  need  be  magnetic  deflection  can  be 
employed  (Fig.  3).  In  nuclear  physics  the  photo-multiplier  plays  an  important 
part  in  the  recording  of  scintillations  which  are  produced  by  high-energy  particles. 
It  is  also  used  as  a  highly  sensitive  photometer.  In  television  engineering  the  photo- 
multiplier  is  used  in  connection  with  the  transmission  of  cine  films  and  as  an  import- 
ant component  of  camera  tubes  based  on  the  orthicon  principle  (see  page  146). 


140 


released 
electrons 


cathode 


Fig.  1      PHOTOMULTIPLIER  WITH 

WIRE  GAUZE  ELECTRODES         2 


anode 


direction  of  magnetic  field 


141 


MAGIC   EYE 

The  name  "magic  eye"  is  popularly  applied  to  the  electron-ray  tube,  a  device 
which  gives  a  visual  indication  of  correct  tuning  in  radio  receivers  and  correct 
adjustment  of  the  microphone  output  to  obtain  a  good  recording  in  tape  recorders. 
The  electron-ray  tube  consists  of  a  triode  (an  electron  tube  with  cathode,  control 
grid  and  anode:  see  page  90)  and  a  cathode  ray  tube  (see  page  148).  The  latter 
comprises  a  fluorescent  screen  which  is  bombarded  by  electrons  emitted  by  an 
incandescent  cathode ;  they  are  accelerated  by  an  anode  and  are  controlled  by  another 
electrode  (indicator  grid).  The  two  parts,  i.e.,  the  triode  and  the  cathode  ray  tube, 
have  separate  grids,  but  share  a  common,  indirectly-heated  cathode  and  have  a 
common  anode  voltage.  The  anode  of  the  electron-ray  tube  comprises  two  control 
fins  which  are  conductively  connected  to  the  anode  of  the  triode.  The  fluorescent 
screen  symmetrically  surrounds  the  dark  red  glowing  indirectly-heated  cathode, 
whose  light  is  screened  by  a  cap.  The  image  on  the  screen  in  the  zero  position  is  shown 
in  Fig.  lb:  wide  dark  sectors  are  separated  by  narrow  luminous  ones.  When  the 
receiver  is  correctly  tuned,  the  luminous  sectors  open  to  maximum  width. 

A  further  development  of  this  device  is  the  dual  electron-ray  tube,  which  allows 
of  coarse  and  fine  adjustment  (for  powerful  and  medium-power  transmitters).  It 
contains  two  triode  systems  and  two  pairs  of  anode  fins.  The  fluorescent  pattern  for 
various  conditions  is  illustrated  in  Figs.  2a,' 2b  and  2c. 


142 


cap 


cap 


indicating 

part 

(cathode 

ray  tube) 


triode 


indicator  grid 


anode  with 
control  fins 


fluorescent  screen 

grid  of/triode 

grid  of  indicating  part 
heating  (cathode) 

Fig.   la     MAGIC  EYE  (schematic) 


>Ww& 

/$&!::$ 

| 

O 

:•:•; 

.y 

;• 

:$9V  ^control  fin 


Fig.   lb     ZERO  POSITION 


cap 


control  fin 


Fig.   lc     CORRECTLY  TUNED 


a)    zero  position 


b)    range  I  adjustment 

(medium-power  transmitter) 


c)    range  II  adjustment 
(powerful  transmitter) 


Fig.   2     IMAGES  FORMED   BY  DUAL  ELECTRON-RAY  TUBE 


143 


BLACK-AND-WHITE   TELEVISION 

Television  utilises  the  cinematographic  projection  principle  in  that  it,  too,  operates 
at  a  picture  rate  of  at  least  25  per  second  and  thus  produces  the  visual  impression 
of  continuous  motion.  Just  as  in  the  half-tone  screens  used  in  photo-engraving  (see 
p.  128, 1 1),  in  which  the  different  light  and  shade  values  of  a  photograph  are  repro- 
duced by  a  pattern  of  dots,  in  television  the  image  is  likewise  analysed  into  a  large 
number  of  "picture  elements",  the  principle  of  which  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  1.  This 
means  that  the  picture  must  be  divided  into  a  number  of  lines  (e.g.,  625),  and  each 
line  must  contain  several  hundred  individually  identifiable  half-tone  light  values. 
This  is  known  as  "scanning".  To  obtain  a  reasonably  good  picture,  the  image  must 
be  thus  analysed  into  at  least  100,000  (and  preferably  200,000)  picture  elements. 
In  the  television  camera  (iconoscope.  Fig.  2;  for  further  details  see  page  146)  the 
image  is  focused  on  to  a  plate  called  the  signal  plate  whose  surface  is  covered  with 
a  mosaic  of  photosensitive  points.  Each  of  these  points,  corresponding  to  one  picture 
element,  acquires  a  positive  electric  charge  whose  magnitude  depends  on  the  strength 
of  the  illumination  falling  on  it  (Fig.  3).  An  electron  beam,  forming  a  scanning  spot 
on  the  signal  plate,  zig-zags  its  way,  line  by  line,  across  the  plate  every  1/25  second1 
and  thus  discharges  each  photosensitive  point  25  times  per  second.  Each  point  thus 
gives  an  electric  impulse  whose  strength  corresponds  to  the  strength  of  illumination 
at  that  point  at  that  particular  instant.  These  impulses  (forming  the  picture  signal) 
are  amplified  and  transmitted.  In  the  television  receiver  the  incoming  impulses, 
after  amplification,  are  fed  to  the  control  electrode  of  the  picture  tube  (cathode  ray 
tube ;  see  page  1 48 )( Fig.  4)  in  which  an  electron  beam  is  zig-zagged  across  a  fluorescent 
screen  synchronously  with  the  beam  in  camera  tube  and  with  an  intensity  varying 
with  the  strength  of  the  electric  impulses.  In  this  way  a  pattern  of  luminous  points 
of  varying  brightness,  and  formed  in  rapid  succession,  is  produced  on  the  screen, 
thus  making  the  picture  that  the  viewer  sees. 

The  picture  signal  (Fig.  5)  can  be  conveyed  to  the  receiver  by  cable  (coaxial  cables 
are  employed),  but  they  are  usually  transmitted  by  means  of  waves  similar  to  those 
used  in  ordinary  radio  broadcasting,  but  of  shorter  wavelength.  These  high-frequency 
short  waves  are  only  able  to  travel  in  straight  paths  from  the  transmitter,  so  that, 
because  of  the  earth's  curvature,  the  range  is,  broadly  speaking,  limited  to  the 
visual  horizon.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  television  transmitters  are  installed  on  tall 
masts  or  towers,  which  have  to  be  spaced  about  fifty  miles  apart  in  order  to  provide 
good  television  coverage  throughout  a  region  (Fig.  6). 

i    i  )0  second  in  b'.S.A. 


144 


■  I     III 

■  ■■■      I 

nil 

■■■III     1 

mi 

r   ii 

II 

"~ii   " 

II 

"ii 

■  I 

if 

II 

■  ■ 

iiiii   ~ 

II        III 

Fig.   1      PICTURE  ELEMENTS 


subject 


fluorescent 
screen 


signal  plate 


scanning  beam 
cathode 


\\  //I     control  electrode 


Fig.  3     ICONOSCOPE  (transmission)  AND 
CATHODE  RAY  TUBE  (reception) 


resistance 


Fig.  2     TELEVISION  CAMERA  (iconoscope) 
AND  MICROPHONE 


scanning  beam 


loudspeaker 


cathode 


Fig.  4     SOUND  AND  PICTURE  REPRO- 
DUCTION AT  RECEIVER   (loud- 
speaker and  cathode  ray  tube) 


line  jump  signal 


12  3  4  5  6 


jpL  _fB_  _P_  _fl 


j    picture  jump  signal 


picture  content 


Fig.  5     SCANNING  OF  AN   IMAGE  AND  CORRESPONDING 
ELECTRIC  SIGNALS 


relay  stations 

MnmilMI 


auxiliary  transmitter 


Fig.  6     TELEVISION  TRANSMISSION  WAVES  TRAVEL  IN  STRAIGHT  PATHS;   RELAY  STATIONS 
AND  AUXILIARY  TRANSMITTERS  ARE  THEREFORE   REQUIRED 


145 


TELEVISION   CAMERA  TUBES 

The  iconoscope,  invented  some  forty  years  ago  and  now  obsolescent,  is  the  oldest 
electronic  analysing  device  for  converting  the  optical  image  in  the  television  camera 
into  a  sequence  of  electric  signals.  It  proved  to  be  much  more  efficient  than  the  older 
mechanical  scanning  devices,  which  it  entirely  superseded  in  the  nineteen-thirties. 
The  essential  component  of  the  iconoscope  is  the  signal  plate,  whose  front  face  is 
covered  with  a  mosaic  consisting  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  tiny  globules  of  silver, 
which  are  so  treated  during  manufacture  that  each  globule  has  a  surface  of  the  oxides 
of  silver  and  cesium.  A  lens  focuses  an  optical  image  on  the  mosaic,  the  whole 
surface  of  which  acquires  a  positive  photo-electric  charge  whose  distribution  matches 
the  distribution  of  light  in  the  image  (Fig.  1).  The  mosaic  is  scanned  line  by  line  by 
a  narrow  beam  of  electrons  which  is  moved  across  the  image.  When  this  beam  hits 
a  globule,  the  latter  is  discharged.  The  individual  silver  oxide  coatings  act  as  one 
electrode  of  a  condenser,  the  other  electrode  of  which  is  the  metallic  signal  plate 
(separated  from  the  globules  by  a  sheet  of  mica)  (Fig*.  2).  Each  time  a  globule  is 
discharged,  it  gives  an  electrical  impulse  (Fig.  3).  The  translation  of  the  televised 
scene  into  its  electrical  counterpart  thus  results  in  a  sequence  of  electrical  impulses 
known  as  the  television  picture  signal. 

The  line-by-line,  left-to-right,  top-to-bottom  dissection  and  reconstitution  of 
television  images  is  known  as  scanning.  The  agent  which  disassembles  and  reas- 
sembles the  light  values  along  each  line  is  called  the  scanning  spot  (produced  by  a 
beam  of  electrons),  and  the  path  it  follows  is  the  scanning  pattern.  The  spot  is  moved 
from  left  to  right  and  then  returned  rapidly,  while  extinguished  and  inactive,  from 
right  to  left.  At  the  same  time,  the  spot  is  moved  comparatively  slowly  from  top  to 
bottom. 

The  first  successor  to  the  iconoscope  was  the  orthicon,  in  which  the  mosaic  is 
similar  to  that  of  the  iconoscope,  but  is  composed  of  squares  of  photosensitive 
material.  The  signal  plate  is  formed  by  a  transparent  metal  coating  on  the  reverse 
side.  A  further  development  is  embodied  in  the  image  orthicon,  which  is  notable  for 
its  very  high  sensitivity  to  light.  It  is  similar  to  the  orthicon,  but  includes  an  additional 
electrical-imaging  process  and  comprises  an  amplifier  based  on  the  phenomenon  of 
electron  multiplication.  The  electron  multiplier  increases  the  strength  of  the  picture 
signal  by  several  thousand  times,  whereby  the  very  high  sensitivity  is  obtained. 

Another  television  camera  tube  is  the  vidicon,  whose  function  is  based  on  the 
phenomenon  of  photoconductivity.  In  its  early  forms  its  action  was  rather  slow, 
and  it  was  limited  to  industrial  applications,  traffic  supervision,  etc.  Later  develop- 
ments overcame  this  drawback.  The  signal  plate  in  the  vidicon  is  a  transparent 
metallic  coating  on  which  is  a  layer  of  photoconductive  material  (a  complex  compound 
of  selenium)  whose  electrical  resistance  is  high  in  the  dark  but  diminishes  as  the 
light  increases.  The  optical  image  induces  a  pattern  of  varying  conductivity  which 
corresponds  to  the  distribution  of  brightness  in  the  image.  The  conduction  paths 
through  the  photoconductive  layer  allow  positive  charge  from  the  signal  plate  to 
pass -through  the  layer.  An  electron  beam  neutralises  the  positive  charge  on  each 
point  of  the  electrical  image,  and  the  resulting  change  in  potential  is  transferred  by 
"condenser"  action  to  the  signal  plate  (on  the  same  principle  as  in  the  iconoscope). 
An  advantage  of  the  vidicon  is  that  it  can  be  constructed  to  a  very  small  size,  so 
that  small  and  relatively  inexpensive  lenses  can  be  used. 


146 


Fig.   1      ICONOSCOPE 


mosaic  image 
scanned  by 
electron  beam 


'/  /      '  /signal  electrode 


anode  signal  plate  with  photo-electric 

charge  formed  by  image 


cathode 


Fig.  2     SIGNAL  PLATE 
Cs  -—^  mica  sheet 

c 

c 
c 

c 
c 
c 
c 
c 
c 
c 
o 

metal  coating 


signal  electrode 


picture  signal 


resistance 


Fig.  3     ELECTRICAL  CONNECTIONS  OF  ICONOSCOPE 


U 

A9  —  A92° 


147 


TELEVISION    PICTURE   TUBE 

Tht  .ture  tube  (cathode-ray  tube*  is  equipped  with  an  electron  gun 

compnsir  _  -Lhode  which  emn-  _  ncentrated  into  a  beair 

which  is  moved  to  and  fro  by  a  defle^  :m  and  ar  a  spol  of  ligh: 

fluorv  ration  of  the  emitted  electrons  into  a  beam  is  done  b\ 

,xles  which  function  as  an  electric  Ic  ncentxating  coil  functi 

directions  for 
.ained  by  means  of  two  mutually  perpendicular  pairs  of  plates  (elec- 
g.  h  or  by  mc  I  magnetic  deflecting  coil  (Fig.  2l  The  ad\am~r 

reflection  is  th.  deflection  angles  can  be  acr 

at  tow         iges  This  m  turn  enables  the  tube  to  be  made  i  bo  that  the 

The  scanning  spot  of  the  eh  - 
:een.  line  b>  with  the  scanning 

in  the  teL  mera  The  fluorescent  screen,  which  ts  inside  the  tuK 

:  chemicals  (of  which  Tiple.  zinc  sulphide  n.. 

tuenn  w  hich  glow  under  the  impact  of  high-speec 
fluoi\  m  be  modifiec  mixtures  to  the  coating.  The 

of  the  electron  beam  in  the  "electric  lens"  is  achie\ed  b\  means  of  the  electric  held 
which  is  formed  between  the  earthed  c\linder  izero  potential!  and  the  anode  plaid 
nail  The  fax  he  hole  at  the  centre  of  the 

anode,  and  the  equipoten:  iiher  m  the  manner 

*  ith  magnetK 
oiral  par 
electrons  in  the  field  of  the  two  r  ie  to  the  kail  of 

a  bod\  ir.  ial  field.  Each  indi\idual  dec 

In  the  case  of:  nilar  eflect  is  achu  causing  the 

spiral  path  ;  Magnetic  scanning  is  accomplished 

s  wound  on  a  <  material.  Deflection 

.  cm  b\  virtue  of  the  fact  that  an  elec:  cnetk 

eapetiena  right  angles  both  to  its  Motion  and  to  the 

direction  of  the  magnetic  lines  c 


148 


cathode 

(negative  potential) 

cylinder  (lero  potential) 


anode 
(positive 
potential) 

deflecting  plates 


Fig.   1      ELECTROSTATIC  FOCUSING  AND  DEFLECTION 
IN  THE  CATHODE  RAY  TUBE 

(television  picture  tube) 


anode 
magnetic  lens 


magnetic  deflecting  coil 


Fig.  2     MAGNETIC  FOCUSING  AND  DEFLECTION   DEVICES 


149 


IMAGE   CONVERTER  TUBE 

An  imago  converter  tube  is  an  apparatus  which  converts  images  of  an  optically 
non-observable  kind  of  radiation  into  images  which  come  within  the  range  of  optical 
observation.  In  principle  (Fig.  1)  it  consists  of  a  thin  photocathode  which  reacts  to 
invisible  radiation.  The  electron  image  which  is  formed  is  projected  on  to  the 
fluorescent  screen  by  means  of  magnetic  or  electric  focusing  lenses  (Figs.  2  and  3)  and 
thus  produces  an  optically  visible  image.  For  the  conversion  of  X-rays  a  converter 
tube  is  used  which  contains  a  thin  aluminium  foil  (Fig.  4)  one  side  of  which  is  provided 
with  the  fluorescent  screen,  while  the  other  side  constitutes  the  photocathode. 
With  the  aid  o(  the  X-ray  image  converter  tube  the  original  silhouette  images  can 
be  electronicall)  intensified.  In  this  way.  for  instance,  a  sufficiently  bright  image  can 
be  obtained  even  with  a  low  radiation  dose  which  is  quite  harmless  to  the  patient. 

The  mode  o(  functioning  o(  the  image  converter  tube  is  based  on  the  properties 
of  electric  and  magnetic  lenses  {>:(.  page  \bb)  w  hereby  electron  beams  emitted  from  an 
(electronic)  image  point  can  be  gathered  and  focused  at  another  point.  The  concept 
o(  "lens"  is  derived  from  conventional  optics  and  refers  to  devices  whose  only 
features  in  common  with  optical  lenses  are  that  they  are  able  to  focus  rays,  though 
in  this  c.iso  these  are  electron  rays,  not  light  rays.  With  the  electric  lens  the  focusing 
action  is  obtained  b\  means  of  an  electrical  field  (e.g..  between  two  coaxial  cylindrical 
electrodes,  one  o\'  which  has  a  higher  potential  than  the  other)  which  has  curved 
equipotential  surfaces  (surfaces  of  constant  potential  or  voltage)  that  are  comparable 
to  the  curved  surfaces  of  a  lens  (Fig.  -)  Each  individual  electron  performs  vibrations 
of  diminishing  amplitude  as  it  travels  along  in  the  direction  of  the  cylinder  axes 
The  electron  beam,  consisting  of  vast  numbers  of  electrodes,  thus  assumes  a  tapering 
tubular  shape,  i.e..  it  converges  and  is  focused.  The  functioning  of  a  magnetic  lens 
is  even  less  like  that  of  an  ordinary  optical  lens  (Fig.  3).  In  the  longitudinal  magnetic 
field,  which  is  approximate!)  parallel  to  their  direction  of  flight,  the  electrons  describe 
spiral  paths  All  electrons  which  start  from  one  and  the  same  point  may  travel  along 
different  spiral  paths,  but  will  eventually  converge  at  one  point.  In  this  sense  there  is 
a  focusing  i.e.,  image-forming  effect.  Magnetic  lenses  are  preferable  to  electrical 
ones  because  the)  can  be  operated  at  lower  and  therefore  less  dangerous  voltages. 


150 


ultraviolet  or 
infrared  light 


Fig.   1      PRINCIPLE  OF  IMAGE  CONVERTER  TUBE 


£> 


fluorescent  screen 


electron  beam 


magnetic  lines  of  force 
_4- 


angle  of 
deflection 


Fig.  2     ELECTRIC   LENS 


Fig.  3     MAGNETIC  LENS 


X-rays 

/ 


fluorescent  screen 
aluminium  foil 


specimen 


light   /^ 
photo-electrons  f 

)) 


25  kV 


eye  of  observer 


Fig.  4     X-RAY  CONVERTER  TUBE  (schematic) 
151 


EIDOPHOR   SYSTEM 

The  eidophor  system  is  a  projection  television  system,  i.e.,  it  enables  enlarged 
television  pictures  to  be  projected  on  to  a  screen.  An  ordinary  television  picture  (see 
page  144)  derives  its  brightness  from  the  fluorescence  of  a  screen  bombarded  by 
electrons ;  with  the  eidophor  system,  on  the  other  hand,  a  very  powerful  source  of 
light  is  controlled  by  the  television  signal  picked  up  by  the  receiver.  The  light  emitted 
by  an  arc  lamp  (which  in  the  case  of  colour  television  is  passed  through  a  colour 
filter  disc)  is  directed  on  to  the  screen  by  means  of  two  grating  screens  (Fig.  1) — 
or,  alternatively,  a  grating  mirror  silvered  on  the  back  (Fig.  2) — through  an  oil 
film  and  a  projection  lens.  The  oil  film  is  given  an  electric  charge  of  varying  intensity, 
depending  on  the  brightness  value  of  the  incoming  signal,  by  an  electron  beam 
which  is  controlled  by  this  signal.  As  a  result  of  the  electrostatic  repulsion  forces, 
the  oil  film  thereby  acquires  varying  degrees  of  curvature.  The  curved  surface 
produces  a  change  in  the  optical  image  formed  by  the  light  which  passes  through  or 
is  reflected  by  it.  The  light  reflected  by  the  bars  of  the  grating  mirror  will,  on  its 
return  path  after  being  reflected  by  the  oil  film,  pass  with  varying  intensity  through 
the  gaps  in  the  mirror,  so  that  the  stream  of  light  is  controlled  by  the  television  signal. 
In  consequence  of  the  scanning  by  means  of  the  electron  beam  an  electrical  charge 
pattern  is  formed  which  corresponds  to  the  brightness  values  of  the  image.  This 
varying  pattern  of  electrical  charge  in  turn  controls  the  light  emitted  by  the  light 
source  which  projects  the  greatly  enlarged  image  on  to  the  screen.  The  light  rays 
which  are  unaffected  by  the  charge  pattern  are  retained  by  the  grating  screen  (Fig.  1) 
or  by  the  grating  mirror  (Fig.  2). 

The  apparatus  represented  diagrammatically  in  Fig.  2  must,  of  course,  be  accom- 
modated in  a  high-vacuum  enclosure  to  enable  electronic  control  to  be  effected. 
The  electrical  charge  of  the  oil  film  dies  away  gradually ;  for  this  reason  the  film  is 
made  to  rotate  slowly  away  from  under  the  controlling  electron  beam,  and  a  smooth- 
ing blade  ensures  that  the  film  is  given  a  fresh,  electrically  discharged  surface  before 
it  is  again  exposed  to  the  electron  beam. 


152 


grating  screens 


glass 


beam  II 


,  light  from  arc  lamp 


t  ttttff 

|.   1      EIDOPHOR  PROJECTION  SYSTEM  (schematic) 


projection  lens 


colour  filter  wheel  lens 


electron  beam  system 
controlled  by 
television  signal 

hon  plates     a/ 


arc  lamp  and  condenser  mirror 


focusing  magnets 
smoothing  blade 


5j  « 


ilm  (eidophor) 


ig.  2     EIDOPHOR  EQUIPMENT 


153 


STROBOSCOPIC   EFFECTS 

Stroboscopic  effects  have  a  physiological  basis.  The  human  sense  of  vision  is  so 
slow  to  react  to  light  stimuli  that  it  is  unable  to  separate  two  different  light  impulses 
reaching  the  eye  within  a  very  short  period  of  time  (less  than  75  second).  A  succession 
of  impulses  following  one  another  at  such  brief  intervals  are  observed  by  the  eye  as 
a  continuous  unbroken  sequence  (principle  of  cinematography  and  television; 
cf.  Figs.  2  and  3). 

Stroboscopic  phenomena  in  a  more  restricted  sense  occur  in  cases  where  two 
periodic  motions  which  differ  slightly  in  their  timing,  or  which  are  performed 
synchronously,  are  superimposed  one  upon  the  other.  An  example  is  provided  by 
the  glow  lamp  in  Fig.  1,  which  is  fed  with  alternating  current  (50  cycles/sec.)  and 
emits  100  light  impulses  (brief  flashes)  every  second.  This  intermittent  light  is  beamed 
on  to  a  revolving  disc  provided  with  two  dark-coloured  sectors.  If  the  disc  is  rotated 
exactly  180°  (half  a  revolution)  during  the  interval  of  darkness  (Fig.  lb)  between 
light  maxima  (Figs,  la  and  lc),  the  observer  will  see  a  stationary  two-pointed  star. 
The  speed  of  rotation  of  the  disc  is  then  50  revolutions  per  second.  If  the  speed  is  a 
little  below  this  value  the  double  sector  will  appear  to  be  rotating  in  a  direction 
opposite  to  the  direction  of  the  rotation  of  the  disc;  if  the  speed  of  the  disc  is  a  little 
above  50  revolutions  per  second,  the  double  sector  will  appear  to  be  rotating  in  the 
direction  of  rotation  of  the  disc.  In  the  former  case  the  disc  has  not  quite  rotated 
through  180°  when  the  next  light  maximum  occurs;  in  the  latter  case  the  disc  has 
rotated  a  little  more  than  180°.  Such  stroboscopic  effects  are  sometimes  seen  in  the 
cinema  when  the  frequency  with  which  the  successive  images  are  projected  on  to 
the  screen  is  superimposed  on  the  speed  of  rotation  of,  for  example,  the  spokes  of 
a  wheel.  When  that  happens,  the  wheel  appears  to  be  revolving  backwards. 

Examples  of  stroboscopic  phenomena  in  the  more  general  sense  are  afforded  by 
the  toy  called  a  stroboscope  (Fig.  2)  or  the  little  books  with  pictures  which  appear 
to  move  when  the  pages  are  flicked  (Fig.  3).  In  the  stroboscopic  toy  a  succession  of 
pictures,  each  corresponding  to  a  stage  of  movement,  is  viewed  through  rotating 
slots,  with  the  result  that  an  impression  of  continuous  motion  is  obtained.  In 
engineering,  stroboscopes  are  used  for  measuring  and  checking  the  speeds  of  rotation 
of  shafts  and  other  parts  of  machinery;  they  are  also  used  for  apparently  slowing 
down  periodically  repetitive  motions  and  thus  enable  them  to  be  observed  more 
conveniently. 


154 


Fig.   1      a) 


glow  lamp  with  100  light 
impulses  per  second 


1st  sector 


2nd  sector 


b) 


1  st  sector 


■■>  "imzf 


after  1  /  200  sec. 


2nd  sector 


"  ??/  i  -    '"*.    *',,'""  .  "*/'<"' 


2nd  sector 


1st  sector 


155 


REFLECTION,   REFRACTION   AND   DIFFRACTION   OF   LIGHT 

When  a  ray  of  light  strikes  the  boundary  surface  of  two  different  transparent  media, 
e.g.,  on  passing  from  air  into  a  block  of  glass,  a  proportion  of  the  light  is  reflected 
back  into  the  first  medium.  The  rest  penetrates  into  the  second  medium,  but  it  under- 
goes a  change  of  direction  in  doing  so:  it  is  refracted.  These  two  phenomena  of 
reflection  and  refraction  are  indicated  in  Fig.  1.  The  ray  r  is  so  reflected  that  the  angle  i 
which  it  forms  with  the  perpendicular  of  incidence  /  (i.e.,  a  line  perpendicular  to  the 
boundary  surface)  is  equal  to  the  angle  *  formed  by  the  incident  ray  e  (angle  of 
incidence  =  angle  of  reflection).  The  incident  ray  ?,  the  perpendicular  of  incidence  /, 
the  reflected  ray  r,  and  the  refracted  ray  g  are  all  situated  in  the  same  plane.  The  j 
mathematical  relation  that  exists  between  the  angle  of  incidence  a  and  the  refraction  \ 
angle  f$  is  known  as  the  law  of  refraction :  sin  vsin  /?  =  n.  This  ratio  n  is  called  the 
index  of  refraction. 

On  undergoing  refraction,  white  light  is  broken  up  into  a  number  of  different 
colours,  the  spectral  colours  (Fig.  2):  a  spectrum  is  formed  (Fig.  3).  Red  light  under- 1 
goes  the  least,  violet  light  undergoes  the  greatest  amount  of  diffraction  (dispersion). 
If  the  light  rays  corresponding  to  the  various  spectral  colours  are  combined  by  means 
of  a  lens,  white  light  is  obtained  again.  The  same  result  can  even  be  obtained  with  I 
only  two  spectral  colours  (in  a  certain  intensity  ratio)  if  these  are  complementary  to  ' 
each  other  (complementary  colours).  Each  spectral  colour  corresponds  to  a 
particular  wavelength  of  light.  The  spectrum  of  an  incandescent  solid  or  liquid 
substance  or  a  very  highly  compressed  gas  is  continuous:  it  contains  all  wavelengths 
(comprising  "all  the  colours  of  the  rainbow"  from  red  to  violet).  The  fact  that  parti- 
cular wavelengths  arc  nevertheless  absent  from  the  solar  spectrum  (there  are 
individual  dark  lines,  known  as  Fraunhofer  lines)  is  due  to  absorption  of  these  wave- 
lengths in  the  outer,  gaseous  part  of  the  sun.  Under  normal  conditions,  incandescent 
gases  emit  light  of  particular,  definite  wavelengths:  the  spectrum  takes  the  form  of 
a  line  spectrum,  consisting  of  individual  spectral  lines  (in  the  case  of  atoms),  or  a  band 
spectrum  (in  the  case  of  molecules)  which  comprises  a  large  number  of  spectral 
lines  spaced  close  together.  These  wavelengths  can  similarly  be  absorbed  by  the  gas. 
Every  chemical  element,  when  it  is  in  the  gaseous  state,  produces  a  characteristic 
spectrum  whereby  it  can  be  detected  (spectrum  analysis;  Kirchhoff  and  Bunsen, 
1859).  A  spectroscope  is  used  for  the  purpose  (Fig.  4). 

If  an  object  of  sufficiently  small  dimensions  is  placed  in  the  path  of  light  rays,  it 
does  not  cast  a  sharply  outlined  geometrical  shadow  (as  would  correspond  to  recti- 
linear propogation  of  light).  Instead,  we  observe  a  certain  arrangement  of  light  and 
dark  areas  (e.g.,  stripes).  Such  deviation  from  the  rectilinear  path  is  called  diffraction. 
This  phenomenon  can  be  explained  only  in  terms  of  the  wave  theory  of  light :  super- 
position of  individual  light  waves  (interference).  An  arrangement  of  very  narrow, 
closely  spaced  gaps  or  slits  forms  a  so-called  diffraction  grating  (Fig.  5).  If  white  light 
is  directed  on  to  a  diffraction  grating,  it  will  likewise  produce  a  spectrum,  because  the 
directions  in  which  the  bright  areas  occur  are  dependent  on  the  wavelength.  However, 
in  contrast  with  what  happens  in  refraction,  in  diffraction  the  red  light  undergoes  a 
greater  deflection  from  its  original  direction  than  does  the  violet  light  with  its 
shorter  wavelength. 

The  small  annular  haloes,  or  coronas,  which  sometimes  appear  round  the  sun  and 
moon  are  diffraction  phenomena  caused  by  tiny  water  droplets  in  the  upper 
atmosphere.  For  this  reason  the  outer  edge  oi  such  a  halo  displays  a  (faint)  red 
colour.  On  the  other  hand,  large  haloes  are  phenomena  due  to  refraction  and 
reflection  of  light  by  ice  crystals  (usually  in  the  form  of  cirro-stratus  clouds).  The 
colour  sequence  in  such  haloes,  if  it  is  perceptible  at  all,  is  the  reverse  of  that  in  small 
haloes,  i.e.,  red  is  on  the  inside  and  violet  on  the  outside  of  the  ring.  A  rainbow  is  the 
result  of  a  combination  of  refraction,  reflection  and  diffraction  phenomena.  The  blue 
colour  of  the  sky  is  due  to  scattering  of  sunlight  on  its  way  through  the  atmosphere,  in 
which  process  the  shorter  wavelengths  (blue  light)  are  more  strongly- scattered  than 
the  longer  wavelengths  (red  light). 


156 


perpendicular  of  incidence 
incident  ray  .  I  reflected  ray 


incident  ray 


reflected  ray 


v£  refracted  ray 

w//////,. 

Fig.   1      REFLECTION   AND   REFRACTION  Fig.  2     BREAKING-UP  OF  LIGHT  ON   REFRACTION 


Fig.  3     HOW  THE  SPECTRUM  IS  FORMED 


W/////A 


Fig.  4     PRINCIPLE  OF  A  SPECTROSCOPE 


diffraction  grating 

L- 


incident  light 


diffraction  spectrum 

violet 
red 


Fig.  5     HOW  A  DIFFRACTION   SPECTRUM   IS  FORMED 


157 


LENSES 

When  rays  of  light  pass  through  a  prism,  they  undergo  a  change  of  direction :  they 
are  always  deflected  away  from  the  refractive  edge  (see  page  156).  It  is  possible  to 
conceive  an  assembly  of  prisms,  arranged  as  shown  in  Fig.  la,  whose  respective 
refractive  surfaces  progressively  become  more  nearly  parallel  to  each  other  towards 
the  middle:  light  rays  passing  through  the  outer  prisms  will  undergo  the  greatest 
amount  of  refraction,  with  consequent  deflection  of  their  path  towards  the  centre, 
whereas  the  middle  prism  with  its  two  parallel  surfaces  causes  no  deflection  at  all. 
When  a  beam  of  parallel  rays  passes  through  these  prisms,  the  rays  are  all  deflected 
towards  the  axis  and  converge  at  one  point  (/•").  Rays  emerging  from  a  point  P  are 
also  so  deflected  by  the  prisms  that  they  converge  at  a  point  P' .  A  lens  can  be  con- 
ceived as  consisting  of  a  large  number  of  such  prisms  placed  close  up  against  one 
another,  so  that  their  surfaces  merge  into  a  continuous  spherical  surface.  A  lens  of 
this  kind,  which  collects  the  rays  and  concentrates  them  at  one  point,  is  called  a 
convergent  lens.  Since  it  is  thicker  in  the  middle  than  at  the  edge,  it  is  known  as  a 
convex  lens. 

In  the  case  of  a  concave  lens,  which  is  thinner  in  the  middle  than  at  the  edge,  similar 
considerations  show  that  all  rays  diverge  from  the  centre  (Fig.  lb).  Hence  such  a 
lens  is  called  a  divergent  lens.  After  undergoing  refraction,  parallel  rays  appear  to 
come  from  one  point  (F),  while  rays  emerging  from  a  point  will,  after  passing  through 
the  lens,  appear  to  emerge  from  another  point  (see  Fig.  3b).  Fig.  2  shows  the  various 
shapes  of  convex  and  concave  lenses.  The  last  lens  in  each  group  has  surfaces  curved 
in  the  same  direction  but  having  different  radii  of  curvature;  these  are  known  as 
meniscus  lenses  and  are  used  more  particularly  in  spectacles  (see  page  162). 

The  properties  of  lenses  are  determined  by  the  law  of  refraction :  Rays  parallel  to 
the  axis  of  a  convex  lens  are  refracted  by  the  lens  so  as  to  converge  at  a  point  F, 
called  the  focus  or  focal  point.  Conversely,  rays  which  pass  through  (or  emerge  from) 
become  parallel  after  being  refracted  by  the  lens.  Rays  which  pass  through  the 
centre  of  the  lens  continue  with  their  direction  unchanged.  In  the  case  of  a  concave 
lens,  rays  parallel  to  the  axis  are  refracted  in  such  a  manner  that  they  appear  to 
emerge  from  a  single  point,  which  here  again  is  called  the  focus.  With  the  aid  of  these 
optical  properties  of  lenses  it  is  possible  to  construct  the  path  of  the  rays  and  deter- 
mine the  position  of  the  image  that  the  lens  will  form  of  any  particular  point  of  an 
object  (Figs.  3a  and  3b).  A  convex  lens  generally  produces  a  real  image  which  is 
formed  at  the  point  of  convergence  of  the  rays  and  can  be  made  visible  by  projecting 
it  on  to  a  screen.  On  the  other  hand,  a  concave  lens  produces  a  virtual  image,  from 
which  the  light  rays  appear  to  diverge.  Such  an  image  cannot  be  formed  on  a  screen. 

The  positions  of  the  image  and  the  object  in  the  case  of  a  thin  lens  are  determined 
by  the  following  simple  formula: 

9      o     f 

(g  =  object  distance;  b  =  image  distance;  /  =  focal  distance  or  focal  length). 
Instead  of  the  focal  length,  its  (refractive)  power  is  expressed  in  dioptres.  The  shorter 
the  focal  length  of  a  lens  is,  the  greater  is  its  power.  A  convergent  lens  of  1  metre 
focal  length  is  said  to  have  a  power  of  +  1  dioptre.  The  power  of  a  convergent  lens 
of  0.2  m  focal  length  is  +5  dioptres.  The  power  of  a  divergent  lens  is  expressed  as  a 
negative  quantity;  the  focal  distance  of  such  a  lens  is  likewise  negative,  which  means 
that  b  must  also  have  a  negative  value,  as  the  virtual  image  is  located  on  the  same  side 
of  the  lens  as  the  object  is. 

Single  lenses  are  affected  by  errors  due  to  physical  causes  which  prevent  truly 
accurate  convergence  of  the  light  rays.  The  sharpness  of  the  image  can  be  improved 
by  using  a  combination  of  two  or  more  lenses  whose  errors  compensate  one  another 
(see  page  178). 


158 


Fig.   1      CONVERGENT  LENS  (a)  AND  DIVERGENT  LENS  (b) 


Fig.  2a     CONVERGENT  LENSES 


Fig.  2b     DIVERGENT  LENSES 

a  convergent  lens 
B    real  image 


Fig.  3     CONSTRUCTION  OF  THE 
PATH  OF  THE  RAYS 


b  divergent  lens 


159 


MIRRORS 

Reflection  occurs  at  smooth  surfaces.  The  law  of  reflection  states:  the  incident  ray, 
the  perpendicular  to  the  reflecting  surface,  and  the  reflected  ray  are  situated  in  one 
plane.  The  angle  of  reflection  is  equal  to  the  angle  of  incidence  (Fig.  1). 

Plane  mirror 

Rays  emerge  from  the  object  in  all  directions.  If  a  beam  of  rays  from  the  object  is 
reflected  by  a  plane  mirror,  the  rays  will  change  their  direction  but  will,  after  doing 
so,  continue  on  their  divergent  paths.  They  do  not  converge  and  therefore  cannot 
produce  a  real  image.  They  all  appear  to  come  from  a  point  located  behind  the 
mirror,  i.e.,  from  the  virtual  image  of  the  object.  The  virtual  image  is  at  the  same  dis- 
tance behind  the  reflecting  surface  as  the  object  is  in  front  of  it. 

Curved  mirror 

If  a  spherical  reflecting  surface  is  conceived  as  being  composed  of  a  vast  number  of 
tiny  plane  surfaces,  of  which  each  is  perpendicular  to  a  radius  of  the  sphere,  then  the 
law  of  reflection  can  be  applied  to  such  a  mirror.  Obviously,  a  ray  of  light  directed 
through  the  centre  of  curvature  M  will  be  reflected  back  in  its  own  direction.  At  each 
point  the  reflected  ray  forms  the  same  angle  with  the  radius  as  does  the  incident 
ray,  so  that  rays  parallel  to  the  principal  axis  will  converge  at  one  point  located 
midway  between  the  mirror  and  its  centre  of  curvature.  This  point  of  convergence  is 
the  focus  or  local  point  (/•')  of  the  concave  mirror.  The  focal  length  of  such  a  mirror  is 
equal  to  hall  the  radius  of  curvature.  Conversely,  all  rays  passing  through,  or  emerg- 
ing from,  the  locus  will  be  reflected  in  a  direction  parallel  to  the  principal  axis.  Fig.  2 
shows  the  construction  oi  the  ray  paths  associated  with  a  convergent  (concave) 
mirror.  The  formula  linking  the  positions  of  the  object  and  image  is  similar  to  that 
already  given  for  lenses: 

11 i     : 

y  h  b     f      r 

(y  =  object  distance;  />  image  distance; /  =  focal  distance  or  focal  length  =  jr; 
and  r  —  radius  of  curvature).  In  the  case  o\'  a  divergent  (convex)  mirror  a  virtual 
linage  is  formed  behind  the  mirror;  the  focal  length  and  image  distance  then  both 
occur  as  negative  quantities  in  the  above  equation. 

Driving  mirrors  in  motor  cars  are  sometimes  of  the  convex  type  (example  1), 
forming  a  virtual  image  of  reduced  si/e  but  covering  a  wide  field  of  vision  behind  the 
vehicle.  A  shaving  mirror  (example  2)  is  a  concave  mirror.  The  user  comes  within  its 
focal  distance,  with  the  result  that  he  sees  the  upright  and  enlarged  virtual  image  of 
his  face  in  the  mirror. 

I  he  constructions  for  determining  the  position  of  the  image  carried  out  in  the 
accompanying  drawings  are  in  each  case  based  on  the  choice  of  two  particularly 
convenient  rays,  namely,  the  ray  parallel  to  the  principal  axis  and  the  ray  passing 
through  the  focal  point  of  the  mirror. 

The  use  o(  mirrors  in  the  reflecting  telescope  is  explained  on  page  170. 


160 


Fig.   1      PLANE  MIRROR 


a_2 

virtual  image 
/%  a1'  =  a1  ,  a/  =  ci2  "mirror  symmetry 


object 


law  of  reflection  a    =  a 


principal 
axis 


driving  mirror 


example  1  (convex  mirror):  driving  mirror 


shaving  mirror  ^ 


enlarged  virtual  image 


example  2  (concave  mirror):  shaving  mirror 


161 


SPECTACLES    (EYEGLASSES) 

When  a  person  has  normal  eyesight,  the  image  of  a  distant  object  (theoretically  at 
infinity)  is  formed  accurately  on  the  retina  of  the  eye,  i.e.,  the  focus  (see  page  158)  is 
located  on  the  retina  (Fig.  1).  Since  the  image  distance — the  distance  from  lens  to 
retina — is  predetermined  by  the  size  of  the  eyeball,  the  image  of  an  object  nearer 
the  eye  can  be  sharply  focussed  on  the  retina  only  by  reduction  of  the  focal  length  of 
the  lens,  by  increasing  its  refractive  power  (see  page  1 58).  This  is  achieved  by  the  action 
of  a  muscle,  which  increases  the  curvature  of  the  lens.  When  a  distant  object  is 
observed,  the  radius  of  curvature  of  the  front  surface  of  the  lens  is  about  10  mm 
(0.4  in.).  To  adjust  the  focus  to  an  object  only  4  inches  away,  this  radius  of  curvature 
must  be  reduced  to  about  half  this  amount.  This  adjustment  of  the  eye  to  varying 
distances  is  called  "accommodation"  (Fig.  2). 

However,  not  all  human  eyes  are  "normal"  in  that  they  behave  as  represented  in 
Figs.  1  and  2.  If  the  distance  between  the  lens  and  the  retina  is  too  large,  the  image 
of  a  distant  object  will  be  formed  not  on,  but  in  front  of,  the  retina  (Fig.  3).  To  form  a 
sharply  focused  image,  the  object  must  be  at  a  shorter  distance  from  the  lens,  i.e.,  the 
eye  is  only  able  to  form  a  clear  image  of  objects  within  this  latter  distance.  Such  a  per- 
son is  said  to  be  short-sighted.  This  defect  can  be  corrected  by  spectacles  (Fig.  3). 
Light  rays  coming  from  infinity  are  made  slightly  divergent  by  the  lens,  so  that  it  is 
as  if  they  come  from  an  object  situated  closer  to  the  eye.  By  thus  interposing  a  lens 
with  negative  refractive  power  between  the  eye  and  the  object,  the  combined  system 
of  glass  lens  and  eye  lens  has  its  focus  located  on  the  retina. 

If  the  eyeball  is  too  short  for  the  focal  length  of  the  lens,  the  person  is  said  to  be 
far-sighted  (Fig.  4) ;  his  eyes  must  accommodate  to  get  even  a  distant  object  properly 
in  focus  (whereas  a  normal  eye  lens  is  "at  rest",  i.e.,  does  not  have  to  accommodate, 
when  viewing  objects  at  infinity),  while  near-by  objects  cannot  be  seen  sharply  at  all. 
This  condition  is  corrected  by  means  of  spectacles  fitted  with  convergent  lenses. 
The  combined  system  of  glass  lens  and  eye  lens  is  again  so  contrived  that  the  focus 
is  on  the  retina,  so  that  distant  objects  can  be  viewed  without  the  strain  of  constant 
accommodation. 

The  amplitude  of  accommodation  of  the  human  eye,  i.e.,  the  limits  of  distance 
within  which  an  object  must  lie  in  order  to  enable  a  sharp  image  to  be  formed  on  the 
retina,  diminishes  with  age.  This  is  because  the  lens  grows  less  flexible,  so  that  its 
curvature  becomes  more  difficult  to  vary.  A  person  with  normal  eyesight  may,  at  the 
age  of  55,  be  unable  to  bring  objects  less  than  about  3  ft.  away  sharply  into  focus,  and 
he  will  require  reading-glasses  (compare  Fig.  5  with  Fig.  2). 

Loss  of  power  of  accommodation  can  to  some  extent  be  compensated  by  spectacles 
fitted  with  bifocal  lenses.  These  act  as  weak  lenses  when  the  gaze  is  directed  straight 
ahead  and  as  strong  ones  when  the  gaze  is  directed  downward  for  reading  or  working. 
Trifocals  are  also  sometimes  used.  The  accommodation  amplitude  of  the  eye  and  the 
refractive  power  of  spectacle  lenses  is  measured  in  dioptres  (see  page  158). 

In  the  defect  known  as  astigmatism  the  refracting  surfaces  of  the  eye  have  unequal 
curvature,  which  prevents  the  focusing  of  light  rays  to  a  common  point  on  the  retina. 
Correction  is  achieved  by  means  of  spectacles  whose  lenses  embody  a  combination 
of  spherical  and  cylindrical  curvature,  so  contrived  that  the  combined  system  com- 
prising glass  lens  and  eye  lens  has  the  correct  spherical  curvature. 

Contact  lenses,  as  an  alternative  to  conventional  spectacles,  are  lenses  worn  on 
the  eyeball.  All  visual  conditions  correctible  by  spectacles  can  also  be  corrected  by 
contact  lenses.  These  were  first  introduced  towards  the  end  of  the  previous  century 
and  were  made  of  glass.  Today  they  are  made  of  plastics. 


162 


retina 


Fig.   5     HOW   READING-GLASSES   HELP  TO 

BRING  NEAR  OBJECTS   INTO   FOCUS 


163 


How  clearly  the  human  eye  can  distinguish  details  on  any  particular  object  depends 
on  the  visual  angle  under  which  they  are  observed.  Distant  objects  appear  small, 
and  to  see  them  better  we  use  a  telescope,  which  increases  the  visual  angle  (see 
page  170).  In  the  case  of  very  small  objects  the  visual  angle  remains  too  small  even 
when  they  are  viewed  from  the  shortest  possible  distance  at  which  they  can  be 
brought  into  sharp  focus  by  the  unaided  eye  (approx.  6-15  in.).  If  an  object  is  brought 
still  closer  to  the  eye,  the  visual  angle  does  indeed  increase,  but  the  eye  is  then  no 
longer  able  to  see  it  distinctly.  With  the  aid  of  a  magnifying  glass  or  a  microscope, 
however,  it  is  possible  to  bring  the  object  very  close  to  the  eye  and  yet  view  it  as 
though  it  were  comfortably  within  the  eye's  range  of  accommodation  (i.e.,  the  range 
of  distance  within  which  it  can  produce  a  sharply  focused  image  on  the  retina).  The 
"magnifying  power"  of  a  microscope  or  magnifying  glass  is  the  ratio  of  the  apparent 
size  of  the  image  of  an  object  formed  by  the  instrument  to  that  of  the  object  seen  by 
the  naked  eye.  For  the  purpose  of  this  definition  it  is  assumed  that  the  object  would 
be  examined  by  the  naked  eye  at  the  least  distance  of  distinct  vision,  conventionally 
assumed  to  be  25  cm  (about  10  in.).  Thus,  for  instance,  a  microscope  with  a  magnify- 
ing power  of  300  will  show  an  object  300  times  as  large  as  it  would  appear  to  the  naked 
eye  from  a  distance  of  25  cm. 

The  magnifying  glass  (Fig.  1)  consists  of  a  convergent  lens  (or  a  convergent  system 
of  lenses)  of  short  focal  length.  The  object  to  be  examined  is  placed  within  the  focal 
distance,  so  that  a  magnified  upright  virtual  image  is  formed  approximately  at  a 
distance  at  which  the  eye  can  see  it  most  distinctly.  A  magnifying  glass  is  similar  to 
reading  glasses  (see  page  162)  in  that  it  enables  the  eye  to  take  a  close  look  at  objects 
while  remaining  accommodated  to  a  greater  distance. 

In  a  microscope  (Fig.  2)  magnification  takes  place  in  two  stages.  In  the  case  of  a 
telescope  the  object  is  a  long  distance  away;  the  real  image  formed  by  the  object 
lens  (which  has  a  long  focal  length)  is  formed  approximately  at  the  rear  focal  point. 
On  the  other  hand,  in  the  case  of  a  microscope  the  objective  (object  glass)  has  a  very 
short  focal  length  (ranging  approximately  from  1|  in.  to  0.06  in.);  the  object  is  placed 
so  close  to  the  front  focal  point  of  this  lens  that  the  image  distance  is  much  greater 
than  the  focal  length.  As  a  rule,  the  latter  is  predetermined  by  the  length  of  the 
microscope  tube,  which  is  usually  about  6j  in.  Hence  the  real  intermediate  image 
(for  the  above-mentioned  focal  lengths)  is  about  2\  to  100  times  as  large  as  the 
object  viewed.  In  the  plane  of  the  intermediate  image  are  the  field  of  vision  diaphragm 
and,  in  some  microscopes  for  special  purposes,  measuring  scales,  measuring  grids,  or 
similar  optical  aids.  The  intermediate  image  is  examined  through  a  magnifying  glass, 
the  ocular  (eyepiece),  which  is  mounted  at  the  top  of  the  tube  and  which  further 
magnifies  the  image.  For  example,  the  objective  of  a  microscope  has  a  magnifying 
power  of  40  x  and  the  ocular  has  a  magnifying  power  of  10  x  ;  in  that  case  the  overall 
magnification  will  be  400  x.  With  an  objective  and  ocular  of  100  x  and  25  x  magni- 
fying respectively,  a  magnification  of  2500  x  would  be  obtained.  However,  an  ordin- 
ary optical  microscope  of  such  power  is  of  little  practical  value.  Because  of  the  wave 
character  of  light,  it  is  possible  only  to  distinguish  details  of  a  size  down  to  approxi- 
mately the  wavelength  of  light  (0.0004  -  0.0007  mm  =  0.000016  -  0.000028  in.). 
For  practical  purposes  this  limits  the  maximum  useful  magnification  to  about  2000  x . 
Much  higher  magnifications  are  attainable  with  the  electron  microscope,  which  uses 
electron  rays  of  much  shorter  wavelength  than  visible  light  rays  (see  page  166).  An 
important  part  in  connection  with  the  satisfactory  functioning  of  the  microscope 
is  played  by  the  condenser,  i.e.,  the  lens  or  lenses  which  serves  to  direct  the  light  on 
to  the  object  and  to  illuminate  it  intensively  and  uniformly  in  such  a  manner  that 
nearly  all  of  this  light  is  transmitted  into  the  object  glass  of  the  microscope. 


164 


THE  PURPOSE  OF  A  MAGNIFYING  GLASS 
IS  TO   INCREASE   THE   VISUAL   ANGLE 
UNDER   WHICH   THE   OBJECT   IS   VIEWED 


)    2 


rl 


'visual  angle  . 


4- 


magnified  upright  virtual  image 
of  the  object 


object 


"7" 


(a)  SCHEMATIC  DIAGRAM  OF 
A  MICROSCOPE 

(b)  HOW  THE  IMAGE  IS  FORMED 


ocular (eyepiece) 


ray  path 


intermediate  real  image  G 
field  of  vision  diaphragm        / 


image  G    formed  by  the  ocular 


165 


tLtoiKuro    mitKUitUKt 

As  the  resolving  power  of  the  light  microscope  is  limited  by  the  wavelength  of  light 
(see  page  164),  efforts  were  made  to  utilise  rays  of  shorter  wavelength  which  can  also 
be  deflected  and  be  used  to  form  images.  This  possibility  is  presented  by  electron 
beams,  i.e.,  free  electrons  which  are  accelerated  to  high  velocities  on  traversing  an 
electric  field.  Depending  on  the  velocity  of  the  electrons,  such  beams  can  be  con- 
sidered to  have  a  certain  wavelength;  under  particular  conditions  they  behave  as 
though  they  were  of  an  undulatory  character,  i.e.,  composed  of  waves.  As  an  electron 
has  a  negative  electric  charge,  it  undergoes  acceleration  on  passing  through  an 
electric  field  (Fig.  1) — for  example,  it  is  attracted  towards  the  positive  plate  of  a 
condenser  or,  in  general,  it  is  accelerated  in  the  direction  of  higher  voltage  (higher 
potential);  when  travelling  in  the  opposite  direction,  it  will  be  retarded.  In  an  electric 
field  all  points  having  the  same  voltage  are  conceived  as  being  connected  by  so- 
called  equipotential  lines.  If  an  electron  passes  obliquely  through  an  electric  field 
(e.g.,  between  two  electrically  charged  wire  grids,  Fig.  2),  it  will  undergo  an  additional 
acceleration  towards  the  lines  of  higher  potential:  it  changes  its  direction  of  motion, 
i.e.,  it  is  "refracted".  On  the  basis  of  this  principle,  electrostatic  "lenses"  for  electrons 
were  constructed  —  in  analogy  with  glass  lenses  for  light  —  from  spherically  curved 
grids  of  wire  netting  (Fig.  3).  However,  electronic  lenses  of  this  kind  have  disadvan- 
tages, and  for  this  reason  the  lenses  now  employed  are  based  on  tubes  (Fig.  4)  or 
diaphragms  with  apertures  (Fig.  5).  The  fact  that,  although  the  equipotential  lines 
present  a  symmetrical  pattern,  the  concentrating  and  the  dispersing  action  do  not 
cancel  each  other  out  is  because  the  electrons  traverse  the  dispersing  region  at  higher 
velocity,  so  that  they  undergo  less  deflection.  Besides  electrostatic  lenses,  there  are 
also  magnetic  lenses.  The  function  of  a  magnetic  lens  is  based  on  the  following  prin- 
ciple :  A  moving  electron  is  the  most  elementary  form  of  an  electric  current ;  it  is 
therefore  surrounded  by  a  magnetic  field.  When  the  magnetic  field  associated  with 
an  electric  current  interacts  with  another  magnetic  field,  forces  are  exerted  on  the 
conductor  through  which  the  current  flows.  This  is  the  basic  principle  of  all  electric 
motors  and  generators.  For  the  same  reason  an  electron  travelling  in  a  magnetic 
field  undergoes  a  change  of  direction.  To  obtain  high  field  strengths,  magnetic  lenses 
are  made  of  iron-encased  coils  provided  with  a  narrow  gap  (Fig.  6). 

In  principle  the  construction  of  an  electron  microscope — with  electrostatic  or 
with  magnetic  lenses — is  very  similar  to  that  of  a  light  microscope  for  photographic 
recordings  (Figs.  7a,  7b,  7c):  The  electrons  are  emitted  by  the  incandescent  cathode, 
accelerated,  and  concentrated  by  the  condenser  on  to  the  object  to  be  examined. 
The  object — a  bacterium,  a  virus  or  a  so-called  replica — is  supported  on  an  extremely 
thin  collodion  film.  (A  replica  is  an  envelope  of  carbon  or  some  other  suitable  sub- 
stance formed  on  the  surface  of  a  metal  or  mineral  and  then  removed  for  observation 
under  the  electron  microscope).  Depending  on  the  thickness  and  composition  of  the 
object,  the  electron  rays  undergo  varying  degrees  of  attenuation.  The  objective  lens 
forms  them  into  the  enlarged  intermediate  image.  This  in  turn  is  used  to  form  a  further 
enlarged  image  by  the  projector  lens  system.  This  image  may  be  projected  on  to  a 
fluorescent  screen  (for  visual  observation)  or  on  to  a  photographic  plate  sensitive 
to  electron  rays. 

Green  light  has  a  wavelength  of  around  1/2000  millimetre.  Electrons  accelerated 
with  50,000  volts  have  a  100,000  times  smaller  wavelength.  Because  of  this  extremely 
short  wavelength,  the  resolving  power  of  an  electron  microscope  is  very  much 
greater  than  that  of  a  light  microscope.  In  combination  with  further  enlargement  of 
the  photographic  image,  magnifications  ranging  from  100,000x  to  500,000x  can  be 
obtained. 


166 


e 
I 


Fig.   1      ELECTRON   IN   AN   ELECTRIC   FIELD 


equipotential  lines 
voltage 

u  =  0 

100  Volt 
200  Volt 
300  Volt 
400  Volt 
-U  =  +  500  Volt 


Fig.   7      "REFRACTION"  OF  THE 
ELECTRON   BEAM 


(J   =  0^   (     Fig.   3      ELECTROSTATIC 
'   '  LENS 

+u 


^>- 


Fig.  4     TUBULAR   ELECTRONIC   LENS  COMPARED         Fig.   S      DIAPHRAGM  TYPE   ELECTRONIC  Fig.   6     IRON-ENCASED  COIL  AS   A 

WITH  A  CORRESPONDING  SYSTEM  OF  LENS  COMPARED  WITH   A  CORRESPONDING  MAGNETIC   LENS 

OPTICAL  LENSES  SYSTEM  OF  OPTICAL   LENSES 


source  of  light 


i  !  i 

\  ■  ' 


—yt obi»rt 

jci3» objective 


intermediate 
image 


c  • 


final  image 


-  50000  V 


source  of  electrons 


-  90000  V 


Fig.   7a     OPTICAL  MICROSCOPE 


Fig.   7b     ELECTROSTATIC   ELECTRON   MICROSCOPE      Fig.   7c     MAGNETIC   ELECTRON   MICROSCOPE 
(diaphragm  type  lent)  (coil  type  lent) 


167 


Microscope  accelerator  for  U.S.  Steel  Corporation's 

million-volt  electron  microscope 

Photo  USIS 


TELESCOPES 

Telescopes  are  often  said  to  "enlarge  things"  or  "bring  distant  objects  nearer". 
Actually  they  increase  the  visual  angle.  We  are  accustomed  to  judging  the  size  or 
distance  of  objects  by  the  angle  under  which  we  see  them  (Fig.  1). 

In  principle,  all  refracting  telescopes  (as  distinct  from  reflecting  telescopes)  com- 
prise an  objective  (object  glass),  which  is  directed  towards  the  object  to  be  observed, 
and  an  ocular  (eyepiece),  to  which  the  observer  applies  his  eye.  The  rays  coming  from 
the  distant  object  are  almost  parallel ;  they  converge  to  form  an  image  at  the  focus 
of  the  objective  (cf.  lenses,  page  158).  This  point  also  coincides  with  the  focus  of  the 
ocular,  so  that  the  rays  emerging  from  the  latter  are  again  parallel.  The  observer  thus 
sees  the  object  as  though  it  were  at  infinity,  but  under  a  larger  angle  than  without  the 
aid  of  the  telescope.  The  magnification  is  defined  as  the  ratio  of  the  focal  length  of 
the  objective  (/i)  to  that  of  the  ocular  (f2),  i.e.,  the  ratio  y^. 

In  the  so-called  Galilean  telescope  (named  after  Galileo,  the  great  Italian  scientist 
and  astronomer)  (Fig.  2)  the  ocular  is  a  divergent  lens.  This  system  produces  an  up- 
right image.  This  arrangement  is  nowadays  used  more  particularly  in  opera-glasses, 
which  are  low-powered  binoculars  (usually  with  a  magnification  of  2\  x). 

The  so-called  Keplerian  telescope  (named  after  the  German  astronomer  Kepler) 
(Fig.  3)  has  a  convergent  lens  for  its  ocular.  The  fact  that  the  intermediate  image  in 
this  type  of  instrument  is  a  real  image  is  a  great  advantage :  everything  located  in  the 
plane  of  this  image  appears  sharp  and  as  though  it  were  at  infinity.  For  this  reason  a 
diaphragm  is  installed  in  this  plane,  so  as  to  form  a  sharp  boundary  to  the  field  of 
vision.  Also,  crosswires  or  a  glass  measuring  scale  or  some  other  device — depending 
on  the  purpose  for  which  the  telescope  is  used — may  be  installed  here.  The  inverted 
position  of  the  image  is  no  objection  when  the  telescope  is  used  for  astronomical 
observations.  For  terrestrial  use,  however,  it  is  necessary  to  introduce  an  extra  lens 
to  produce  a  second  intermediate  image,  this  time  in  the  upright  position.  For  this 
purpose  the  "terrestrial  telescope"  is  provided  with  an  additional  convergent  lens 
between  the  objective  and  the  ocular  (Fig.  4).  This  intermediate  lens  does  not  enlarge 
the  image  formed  by  the  objective,  but  merely  "brings  it  the  right  way  up".  The 
drawback  of  this  type  of  telescope  is  that,  because  of  the  intermediate  inversion  of 
the  image,  the  instrument  has  a  rather  large  overall  length.  For  this  reason  the  tube  is 
often  of  collapsible  construction,  consisting  of  segments  which  can  be  slid  into  one 
another  ("telescoped").  The  old  portable  telescope  constructed  on  this  principle 
has  now  largely  been  superseded  by  prismatic  binoculars  (page  174). 

It  is  impracticable  to  make  lenses  of  more  than  about  40  in.  diameter.  For  this 
reason,  in  very  large  astronomical  telescopes  a  concave  mirror  instead  of  a  lens  is 
used  as  the  objective  (the  big  mirror  of  the  world's  largest  telescope,  at  Mount 
Palomar  in  the  U.S.A.,  has  a  diameter  of  200  in.)  Fig.  5  shows  the  principle  of  the 
reflecting  telescope,  and  Fig.  6  gives  an  example  of  a  combination  of  a  concave  main 
mirror  and  a  convex  collecting  mirror;  the  overall  length  of  the  instrument  is  quite 
small. 

In  astronomical  telescopes  used  for  photographic  purposes  the  photographic 
plate  is  placed  direct  in  the  image  plane  of  the  objective. 

The  principle  of  the  reflecting  telescope  with  its  conveniently  short  construction 
length  has  also  been  introduced  into  ordinary  photography.  Fig.  7  shows  the  optical 
arrangement  of  a  miniature  camera  comprising  a  mirror  objective  with  a  focal 
length  of  20  in.  and  an  aperture  of //4.5.  It  consists  of  two  glass  mirrors  and  four 
low-powered  correcting  lenses. 


170 


Fig.  1     INCREASE  OF 

THE  VISUAL  ANGLE 


objoctivo 


Fig.   2     GALILEAN   TELESCOPE 


F,',  Fj       focal  point!  of  objoctiv*  and  ocular 


Fig.  3     KEPLERIAN  TELESCOPE 

*W' 


4f„ 


Fig.   S      PRINCIPLE  OF  THE   REFLECTING 
TELESCOPE 


Fig.   7     MIRROR   LENS,   f   4.5,   500  MM  FOCAL 
LENGTH,   FOR  MINIATURE  CAMERA 
(24  mm  x  36  mm  picture  size) 


Fig.  6      REFLECTING  TELESCOPE  WITH   CONVEX 

COLLECTING  MIRROR   AND  CORRECTING   LENSES 


171 


The  200-inch  mirror  tilted  for  testing  at  the  California  Institute  of  Technology 

Photo  USIS 


TELESCOPES:   PRISMATIC   BINOCULARS 

Prismatic  binoculars  (or,  in  its  single  form,  the  prismatic  telescope)  comprises  an 
objective  and  an  ocular,  like  the  astronomical  telescope  (see  page  170).  The  latter, 
however,  produces  an  inverted  image.  In  the  prismatic  telescope  the  image  is  brought 
into  the  upright  position  by  means  of  prisms.  Fig.  1.  shows  how  a  beam  of  light  is 
twice  deflected  at  right  angles  in  a  prism  (by  total  reflection  at  the  boundary  surfaces), 
with  the  result  that  "top"  and  "bottom"  are  interchanged.  However,  in  order  to 
rectify  the  inverted  image  formed  by  the  objective,  it  is  necessary  also  to  interchange 
"left"  and  "right".  For  this  reason  the  light  is  passed  through  a  second  reversing 
prism  (Fig.  2).  In  comparison  with  the  terrestrial  telescope  (page  170)  there  is  a  very 
substantial  saving  in  the  overall  length  of  the  instrument.  Besides,  the  two  object 
lenses  are  spaced  farther  apart  than  the  eyepieces ;  this  makes  for  better  stereoscopic 
seeing.  Fig.  4  shows  the  course  of  rays  in  prismatic  binoculars.  The  point  of  converg- 
ence of  the  rays  in  front  of  the  ocular  marks  the  position  of  the  intermediate  image. 
Here,  too,  is  located  the  diaphragm  forming  the  boundary  of  the  field  vision. 

The  magnification  of  a  telescope  is  usually  indicated  in  combination  with  the  dia- 
meter of  the  objective.  For  instance,  8  x  30  means  the  magnification  is  8  x  (eight 
times)  and  that  the  objective  has  a  diameter  of  30  mm.  The  ratio  of  objective  diameter 
to  magnification — i.e.,  in  this  case  30/8  =  3.75 — is  an  important  criterion.  It  means 
that  the  beam  of  rays  emerging  from  the  so-called  exit  pupil  of  the  instrument  has  a 
diameter  of  3.75  mm.  The  exit  pupil  is  the  image  of  the  eight  times  larger  entrance 
pupil.  These  two  pupils  can  be  seen  on  looking  into  the  ocular  or  the  objective  from 
a  distance  of  about  12  inches.  The  amount  of  light  entering  the  human  eye,  too,  is 
controlled  by  the  pupil ;  in  feeble  light  its  diameter  may  be  as  much  as  8  mm,  but 
in  bright  sun  it  diminishes  to  1.5  mm.  The  light-gathering  power  of  a  telescope  or 
field-glass  is  therefore  best  utilised  when  the  beam  of  rays  emerging  from  the  ocular 
has  the  same  diameter  of  the  pupil  of  the  observer's  eye.  So-called  "night-glasses" 
are  characterised,  for  example,  by  the  data  7  x  50,  i.e.,  the  magnification  is  7  x  and 
the  objective  diameter  ( =  entrance  pupil)  is  50  mm.  In  moonlight  the  entire  emergent 
beam  enters  the  observer's  eye  (Fig.  3a).  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  instrument  is  used 
in  bright  sunlight,  the  pupil  of  the  eye  is,  say,  2  mm  in  diameter  (Fig.  3b),  so  that  then 
only  p3  of  the  instrument's  light-gathering  power  is  utilised.  As  the  amount  of  light 
passing  through  the  aperture  is  proportional  to  the  area  thereof,  the  light-gathering 
power  of  a  telescope  is  designated  by  the  square  of  the  diameter  of  the  exit  pupil, 
e.g.,  7.14  x  7.14  =  51.5. 

In  twilight,  objects  are  distinguished  better  according  as  they  appear  larger  and 
brighter.  It  is  known  that  the  perceptibility  increases  approximately  in  proportion 
to  the  square  root  of  the  product  of  objective  diameter  and  magnification,  e.g., 

V30  x8  =  15.5;        ^50  x  7  -  18.7. 


174 


Fig.    1      TOTAL   REFLECTION   AT  TWO  FACES  OF   A  PRISM 


Fig.   2      REVERSAL  OF  IMAGE   BY   TWO   PRISMS 


i 

1           7 

3. 

a 
a. 

• 
a 

■ 
• 

/objective  yr 

' 

f           _\ 

1/ 

larger  diameter  of  pupil 


equal  pupil  sizes 


s**ilis*d-poM»**»-€*f- 

entrance  pupil 


superfluous  light-gothering 
power  of  night-glasses 
used  in  daylight 


Fig.   3     LIGHT  GATHERING   POWER  OF  TELESCOPE 
AND  EYE  (eg,   NIGHT-GLASSES) 


objective 
Fig.   4     PRISMATIC  BINOCULARS 


!  ' 


i 


175 


CAMERAS:   GENERAL   INTRODUCTION 

A  camera  is  a  device  consisting  essentially  of  a  light-tight  box  which  has  an  opening 
covered  by  a  lens  in  one  wall ;  this  lens  forms  a  real  image  of  the  object  upon  a  plate 
or  film  of  light-sensitive  material  disposed  inside  the  box.  A  modern  camera  consists 
of  a  body,  or  housing,  with  the  film  holder  and  the  film  feed  mechanism,  the  lens,  the 
shutter,  the  distance  setting  (possibly  also  a  rangefinder),  and  the  viewfinder  for 
composing  the  picture.  A  small  portion  of  the  light  from  the  object  is  momentarily 
allowed  to  form  a  real  image  on  the  photographic  plate  or  film.  The  simplest  method 
of  forming  an  image  of  this  kind  is  by  means  of  a  "pinhole"  diaphragm,  containing  a 
hole  of  0.016  in.  diameter,  on  the  front  of  the  light-tight  box.  On  this  principle  it  is 
possible  to  construct  a  so-called  pinhole  camera  (Fig.  1).  From  each  point  of  the 
object  a  ray  of  light  passes  through  the  hole  and  strikes  the  photographic  plate, 
where  it  makes  an  image  of  that  point.  Each  point  of  the  object  is,  admittedly, 
projected  on  to  the  plate  as  a  small  elliptical  spot  of  light,  and  the  adjacent  ellipses 
merge  together,  so  that  a  blurred  image  is  formed.  Besides,  a  pinhole  camera  has  a 
low  light  intensity,  i.e.,  it  has  a  very  low-speed  "lens"  (the  pinhole),  which  means  that 
long  exposure  times  are  necessary  for  obtaining  adequate  blackening  of  the  plate. 
Sharper  images  are  obtained  by  using  an  objective  consisting  of  a  lens  or,  preferably, 
a  set  of  lenses  (elements)  mounted  one  behind  the  other.  In  that  case  the  light  coming 
from  each  point  of  the  object  to  be  photographed  is  focused  by  the  lens  and  con- 
centrated as  a  corresponding  point  on  the  photographic  plate.  In  a  box  camera 
(Fig.  2)  the  aperture  and  therefore  the  light-transmitting  power  of  the  lens  are  fixed. 
This  type  of  camera  usually  has  a  single  or  a  two-element  lens.  In  more  advanced 
cameras  both  the  aperture  and  the  exposure  time  can  be  varied  to  suit  the  lighting 
conditions  and/or  the  movement  (if  any)  of  the  object  (moving  objects  must  be 
photographed  with  short  exposures  in  order  to  obtain  sharp  images  on  the  plate  or 
film).  The  lenses  in  these  more  elaborate  cameras  usually  consist  of  three  or  more 
elements.  Cameras  using  the  larger  sizes  of  film  are  usually  constructed  as  bellows- 
type  folding  cameras  (Fig.  3).  Smaller  cameras  are  often  of  the  tube  type  (Fig.  4).  This 
latter  form  of  construction,  as  applied  to  so-called  miniature  cameras,  has  important 
optical  advantages  (short  focal  length,  larger  angular  field  and  the  resultant  ad- 
vantages. High-class  models  are  equipped  with  coupled  rangefinders,  interchangeable 
lenses,  and  shutters  with  speeds  up  to  y^o  second .  The  twin-lens  reflex  camera  (Fig.  5) 
comprises  a  camera  part  and  a  viewfinder  part.  The  distance  setting  for  the  two  parts 
is  coupled,  so  that  the  sharply  focused  image  which  is  formed  on  the  ground-glass 
screen  of  the  viewfinder  is  also  formed  on  the  film  plane.  The  lenses  of  the  two  parts 
have  exactly  the  same  focal  length.  As  a  rule,  the  viewfinder  lens  has  greater  light- 
transmitting  power  than  the  camera  lens,  as  this  makes  for  quicker  and  sharper 
focusing.  All  twin-lens  reflex  cameras  take  2\  in.  x  2^  in.  photographs.  The  single- 
lens  reflex  camera  (Fig.  6)  has  only  one  lens.  This  lens  first  serves  for  focusing  the 
image  on  a  ground-glass  screen  (or  in  a  prism  viewfinder);  then,  when  the  image  has 
been  focused,  the  deviating  mirror  (set  at  45°)  is  swung  upwards,  enabling  the,  image 
to  be  formed  on  the  film  plane.  The  stop  value  (aperture)  is  set  before  the  exposure  is 
made.  When  the  shutter  is  released,  the  deviating  mirror  is  automatically  swung  out 
of  the  way,  and  the  shutter,  which  in  such  cameras  is  usually  of  the  focal  plane  type, 
i.e.,  mounted  directly  in  front  of  the  film  (see  page  186),  momentarily  exposes  the  film. 
Then,  when  the  film  is  wound  on  for  the  following  shot  and  the  shutter  is  thereby 
automatically  cocked,  the  mirror  is  lowered  again  for  focusing  the  next  picture. 


176 


image 


object 


single-element  lens 


Fig.   1      PINHOLE  CAMERA 


diaphragm 


film  plane 

Fig.  2     BOX  CAMERA 


film  spool 


focal  plane 
shutter 


Fig.  3     BELLOWS-TYPE  FOLDING  CAMERA 


Fig.  5     TWIN-LENS 

REFLEX  CAMERA 


deviating  mirror 

focusing  screen 
viewing  lens 


plane 


Fig.  4     TUBE-TYPE  CAMERA 


viewing  prism 


lens 


deviating 
mirror 

film  plane 


taking  lens 


Fig.  6     SINGLE-LENS   REFLEX  CAMERA 


177 


PHOTOGRAPHIC   LENSES 

The  most  important  component  of  a  camera  is  the  objective  or,  as  it  is  more 
familiarly  called,  the  lens.  The  lens  should  form  a  sharp,  even,  undistorted  and  bright 
image  over  the  entire  picture  size. 

The  simplest  conceivable  "lens"  is  merely  a  small  hole — a  "pinhole" — which 
forms  an  image  on  the  back  wall  of  the  camera  (where  the  photographic  plate  or 
film  is  mounted)  because  light  travels  in  a  straight  path  (Fig.  1).  However,  a  photo- 
graph taken  with  a  pinhole  camera  is  not  very  sharp,  as  a  point  is  reproduced  in  the 
irnage  as  a  spot  of  light  which  can  never  be  smaller  than  the  pinhole  itself.  Also, 
because  of  the  very  small  size  of  the  hole,  its  light-transmitting  power  is  extremely  low 
(see  page  188). 

Because  of  its  ability  to  concentrate  the  rays  in  a  beam  of  light  at  one  point,  a 
lens  is  the  obviously  suitable  device  for  forming  a  suitably  sharp  and  bright  image  in  a 
camera.  Fig.  2.  shows  diagrammatically  how  the  image  is  formed  by  the  lens  (see 
page  158).  However,  rays  entering  the  lens  at  wide  angles  in  relation  to  the  optical 
axis  are  not  ideally  concentrated  at  one  point:  the  deviations  from  the  ideal  image 
are  called  lens  errors  (or  lens  aberrations).  The  principal  errors  are:  spherical 
aberration  (Fig.  3;  the  marginal  rays  are  focused  at  a  point  closer  to  the  lens), 
astigmatism  and  curvature  of  the  image  field  (Fig.  4;  two  mutually  perpendicular 
rays  passing  obliquely  through  a  lens  are  concentrated  on  two  curved  surfaces  of 
different  curvature),  coma  (comet-like  elongation  of  points  outside  the  centre  of  the 
image),  distortion  (Fig.  5),  chromatic  aberration  (Fig.  6;  light  rays  of  different 
colours  are  not  focused  at  the  same  point :  light  of  longer  wavelength  is  less  strongly 
refracted  than  shorter-wave  light;  see  page  156). 

If  a  convergent  lens  is  combined  with  a  suitable  divergent  lens,  which  is  so  shaped 
as  to  have  half  the  (negative)  refractive  power  of  the  convergent  lens  but  is  made  of 
glass  with  twice  the  colour  dispersion,  the  refractive  power  of  the  lens  combination  is 
halved,  but  the  chromatic  aberration  is  entirely  eliminated  (Fig.  7).  A  lens  (or, 
strictly  speaking,  an  objective  comprising  two  elements)  of  this  kind  is  called  an 
achromatic  lens.  Its  two  component  elements  are  usually  cemented  together  (Fig.  8), 
and  it  is  used  for  box  cameras  with  apertures  up  to//9.  The  other  lens  errors  can  be 
corrected  by  similar  means,  i.e.,  by  the  combination  of  several  elements  made  of 
different  kinds  of  glass  possessing  different  optical  properties.  Hundreds  of  varieties 
of  glass  differing  in  refractive  index  and  dispersion  are  available  to  the  lens  designer. 
By  varying  the  number  of  lenses  ("elements"),  the  type  of  glass,  the  radii  of  curvature, 
the  lens  thicknesses,  and  the  air  gaps  (if  any)  between  the  elements,  it  is  possible  to 
reduce  the  optical  errors  to  acceptable  values. 

Besides  the  other  errors,  anastigmatism  is  a  defect  which  is  particularly  necessary 
to  eliminate  in  the  case  of  a  "fast"  lens,  i.e.,  a  lens  with  a  high  light-transmitting  power. 
A  lens  corrected  in  this  way  is  called  an  anastigmatic  lens  (or  "anastigmat").  Some 
fundamental  forms  of  lens  in  this  category  have  proved  satisfactoiy.  Thus,  the 
so-called  "triplet"  (Fig.  9)  is  fitted  as  the  standard  lens  in  nearly  all  cameras  in  the 
medium  price  range,  with  apertures  of//3.5  or//2.8  (see  page  188)  and  focal  lengths 
of  45  to  50  mm.  These  lenses  are  known  by  various  proprietary  names  (e.g.,  Agnar, 
Apotar,  Cassar,  Lanthar,  Novar,  Pantar,  Radionar,  Reomar,  Triotar).  An  important 
form  of  camera  lens  is  the  cemented  four-element  triplet  (Fig.  10),  which  usually 
has  an  aperture  772.8  and  a  focal  length  of  50  mm ;  for  larger  sizes  of  camera  these 
lenses  have  an  aperture  of//3.5  for  a  focal  length  of  75  mm  or//4.5  for  a  focal  length 
in  105-300  mm  range  (e.g.,  Elmar,  Skopar,  Solinar,  Tessar,  Xenar,  Ysarex).  Also, 
there  are  five-element  variants  (e.g.,  Apo-Lanthar,  Elmarit,  Heliar),  and  four-  to 
seven-element  variants  of  the  Sonnar  lens,  which  can  hardly  be  classed  as  triplets 
at  all.  For  large  angular  fields,  symmetrical  arrangements  of  the  lens  elements 
facilitate  the  correction  of  the  image  defects.  Most  of  the  fast  lenses  used  in  miniature 
cameras,  with  apertures  ofabout//2,  are  of  the  Gauss  double  anastigmat  type  (Fig.  11) 
(e.g.,  Biotar,  Heligon,  Pancolar,  some  Planar  lenses,  Auto-Quinon,  Solagon,  Ultron, 
Xenon).  In  some  lenses  a  seventh  or  indeed  an  eighth  element  is  added  in  order  to 
obtain  good  correction  even  at  the  highest  light-transmitting  power  (f/2  lof/1.4) 
(Nokton,  some  Planar  lenses,  Septon,  Summicron,  Summilux).  For  further  com- 
binations see  the  article  on  interchangeable  lenses  (page  182). 

178 


object 


Fig.   1      PINHOLE  CAMERA 


object 


Fig.  2     HOW  THE  LENS  FORMS  THE  IMAGE 


sharp 
bright 
image 


marginal  rays 


undistorted 
image 


A- 


4 


Fig.  3 

SPHERICAL  ABERRATION 


Fig.  4 
ANASTIGMATISM  AND 
CURVATURE 
OF  THE   IMAGE   FIELD 


Fig.   5     DISTORTIONS 


Fig.  6     CHROMATIC   ABERRATION 


(E 


Fig.  8 


Fig.  9 


Fig.  7     CORRECTION   OF  CHROMATIC  ABERRATION 


ACHROMATIC        ANASTIGMATIC  LENS      Fig.   10 


LENS 


{triplet) 


CEMENTED  TRIPLET 


Fig.   1 1  I  GAUSS  DOUBLE 
ANASTIGMAT 


basic  forms  of  photographic  lenses  (in  each  case  the  object  to  be 
photographed  is  assumed  to  be  situated  to  the  left  of  the  lens) 


179 


FOCAL   DISTANCE  AND  SIZE   OF    IMAGE 

The  size  of  the  image  in  a  camera  is  determined  by  the  distance  between  the  lens  and 
the  film  plane. 

Fig.  la  shows  the  conditions  in  a  camera  provided  with  a  "standard  lens",  while 
Fig.  lb  is  a  diagram  of  a  camera  with  a  "wide-angle  lens".  The  latter  has  a  wider 
angular  field,  but  the  actual  image  size  is  the  same  (for  the  same  film  size).  From 
Fig.  lc  we  see :  the  image  size  B  bears  the  same  ratio  to  the  subject  size  G  as  does  the 
image  distance  b  to  the  subject  distance  g : 

B      b  ,  B      G 

—  =  -    or  alternatively :    —  =  — 
G      g  b      g 

For  large  "taking  distances"  (distance  from  camera  to  subject)  the  image  distance  b 
is  approximately  equal  to  the  focal  length /(cf.  the  article  on  lenses,  page  158); 
hence  the  image  size  is,  generally  speaking,  proportional  to  the  focal  length :  a  short 
focal  length  produces  a  small  image  of  the  subject ;  if  the  focal  length  is,  say,  three  times 
as  large,  the  image  will  also  be  three  times  as  large  (Figs.  3a  and  3b;  principle  of  wide- 
angle  and  telephoto  photographs). 

The  image  size  must  now  be  considered  in  relation  to  the  picture  size.  The  focal 
length  of  a  "standard  lens"  is  about  equal  to  the  diagonal  of  the  picture  size,  i.e.,  a 
miniature  camera  or  a  plate  camera  with  standard  lenses  both  form  an  image  of  a 
section  of  space  whose  diagonal  is  therefore  approximately  equal  to  the  distance  from 
the  camera.  This  corresponds  to  an  angular  field  of  53°  over  the  diagonal.  The  usual 
standard  lenses  have  an  angular  field  in  the  range  of  45°  to  60°,  corresponding  to 
focal  lengths  of  45-50  mm  for  miniature  cameras  with  picture  size  24  mm  x  36  mm 
(diagonal  43  mm),  75-85  mm  for  picture  size  6  cm  x  6  cm  (diagonal  85  mm),  and 
135-150  mm  for  picture  size  g  x  12  cm  (diagonal  150  mm). 

The  question  as  to  the  angular  field  for  which  a  lens  system  is  corrected  is  of  signi- 
ficance only  with  regard  to  cameras  having  extension  bellows,  because  in  such 
cameras  a  lens  of  the  same  focal  length  is  used  as  a  telephoto  lens  for  a  roll  film  size,  as 
a  standard  lens  with  reserve  scope  for  adjustment,  or  as  a  wide-angle  lens  for  a 
larger  plate  size,  provided  that  the  camera  is  suitably  designed  for  such  a  large 
angular  field  (Fig.  2).  In  a  miniature  camera  the  lens  is  normally  mounted  in  a  tube 
of  appropriate  length  and  is  corrected  exactly  for  the  angle  of  the  particular  picture 
size  employed  (see  the  article  on  interchangeable  lenses  (page  182). 

If  different  focal  lengths  are  used  at  one  and  the  same  view  point,  the  image  size 
will  be  altered,  but  not  the  perspective  effect :  in  that  case  a  photograph  taken  with  a 
telephoto  lens  will  be  no  different  from  a  wide-angle  photograph  which  is  subse- 
quently enlarged  (Figs.  3a  and  3b).  A  much  more  favourable  method  is  to  use  different 
focal  lengths  to  alter  the  perspective  by  changing  the  distance.  Figs.  3b  and  3c  show 
how  the  size  ratio  between  foreground  and  background  is  reversed :  the  distance  to 
the  foreground  subject  Kis  adapted  to  the  focal  length  so  that  the  image  V1  retains 
its  size;  the  distance  between  the  foreground  and  the  background  does  not  change, 
however,  so  that  here  the  change  affects  the  scale  of  the  image. 


180 


Fig.   1      DIFFERENT  FOCAL  LENGTHS 
SAME  IMAGE  SIZE 


Fig.  2     SAME  FOCAL  LENGTH, 
DIFFERENT  IMAGE  SIZES 


—roll  film 


,.   ,  ,    *  utilised  angular 
angular  field  or  ,.   ., 

the  lens 


object 


1  3  x    1  8  cm 


feature  in  foreground 


image  H' 


short  focal  length 


long  focal  length 


Fig.  3     FOCAL  LENGTH   AND   PERSPECTIVE 
181 


INTERCHANGEABLE    LENSES 

Some  cameras  are  so  constructed  that  the  focal  length  can  be  changed,  in  order  to 
enable  the  scale  of  the  picture  (or  image)  to  be  suited  to  the  size  of  the  subject  and  to 
modify  the  perspective  (cf.  page  180). 

The  systems  for  changing  the  focal  length  and  the  construction  of  these  inter- 
changeable lenses  will  here  be  explained  with  reference  to  the  three  focal  lengths 
most  commonly  employed  for  miniature  cameras  (wide  angle  lens  approx.  35  mm, 
standard  lens  approx.  50  mm,  portrait  lens  approx.  85  mm). 

Unlimited  possibility  of  changing  the  lenses  is  afforded  by  the  focal  plane  shutter 
(cf.  page  1 86,  Fig.  1 ).  In  this  example  the  standard  lens  ( 1  b)  is  a  triplet  with  a  cemented 
rear  element.  Because  of  its  shorter  focal  length,  the  wide  angle  lens  (Fig.  la)  is 
mounted  closer  to  the  film  plane,  whereas  the  telephoto  lens  (lc),  with  its  greater 
focal  length,  has  a  correspondingly  longer  tube.  For  cameras  fitted  with  focal  plane 
shutters  there  are  lenses  with  focal  lengths  ranging  from  21  mm  to  600  mm.  Indeed, 
there  are  special  lenses  with  focal  lengths  of  as  little  as  8  mm  or  as  much  as  2000  mm, 
corresponding  to  a  scale  ranging  from  0. 16  to  40  times  in  relation  to  the  standard  lens. 

Single-lens  reflex  cameras  require  a  certain  amount  of  space  for  the  collapsible 
mirror  behind  the  lens,  and  this  "width  of  cut"  represents  a  minimum  distance 
between  the  back  of  the  lens  and  the  image.  Similar  limitations  occur  in  the  case  of  a 
camera  with  a  diaphragm  shutter  (cf.  page  184)  if  it  is  designed  for  interchangeable 
lenses :  instead  of  being  mounted  between  the  lenses,  the  shutter  must  then  be  installed 
directly  behind  the  interchangeable  lens,  so  as  to  ensure  that  even  with  very  short 
exposures  there  is  not  too  much  lack  of  sharpness  at  the  corners  of  the  picture. 
If  this  requirement  is  fulfilled  for  the  standard  lens  (2b),  then  the  width  of  cut,  i.e.,  the 
distance  between  the  back  of  the  lens  and  the  image,  will  be  predetermined,  just  as  in 
the  mirror  reflex  camera.  However  at  some  additional  cost  it  is  nevertheless  possible 
to  make  a  wide  angle  lens  whose  focal  length  is  shorter  than  the  width  of  cut  (Fig.  2a). 
Greatly  simplified,  this  lens  could  be  described  as  a  standard  lens  in  which  the  path 
of  the  rays  is  modified  by  the  divergent  element.  The  arrangement  illustrated  in  (2c) 
is  a  "true  telephoto  lens"  in  that  it  comprises  a  "positive"  (convergent)  and  a 
"negative"  (divergent)  set  of  lenses;  together  these  form  a  system  having  a  large 
focal  length,  in  the  manner  of  a  Galilean  telescope  (see  page  170).  This  form  of  con- 
struction has  the  advantage  of  requiring  only  a  relatively  short  construction  length 
(cf.  Figs  2c  and  lc). 

A  third  possibility  is  the  so-called  convertible  lens.  The  lens  with  shutter  and 
diaphragm  is  permanently  connected  to  the  body  of  the  camera  (just  as  in  a  camera 
without  interchangeable  lenses),  only  the  front  element  of  the  lens  being  inter- 
changed. The  combinations  illustrated  in  Figs.  3a  and  3c  correspond  approximately 
to  the  wide  angle  lens  and  the  telephoto  lens  of  Figs.  2a  and  2c  respectively.  It  is  on 
this  principle,  too,  that  the  functioning  of  the  so-called  "zoom  lens",  which  allows  of 
"infinitely  variable"  control  of  focal  length,  is  based.  Fig.  4  shows  a  lens  of  this  kind 
in  the  "telephoto"  setting.  The  front  set  of  lenses  as  a  whole  is  positive,  whereas  the 
rear  set  is  negative.  By  and  large,  the  lens  resembles  a  telephoto  lens  as  shown  in 
Fig.  2c.  Now  if  the  two  movable  sets  of  lenses  are  slid  backwards  (towards  the 
camera)  a  continuous  transition  is  effected  until  an  arrangement  rather  like  that  in 
Fig.  2a  is  reached,  i.e.,  the  lens  now  functions  as  a  wide  angle  lens. 

Zoom  lenses  with  large  focal  length  ranges — e.g.,  8  to  48  mm  for  8  mm  cine  film — 
are  now  extensively  used  on  television  cameras  and  narrow-gauge  cine  cameras. 
For  the  latter  class  of  cameras  the  cost  of  such  lenses  is  not  prohibitively  high 
(because  of  the  small  picture  size),  and  attractive  or  interesting  effects  in  motion 
pictures  can  be  obtained  by  means  of  zoomed  shots. 


182 


Fig     1      LEICA   INTERCHANGEABLE   LENSES 
FOR   UNRESTRICTED   APPLICATION 


iophrog 


c=fo 


I   focal-plane  shutter 

Q^-J D 


Fig.   2      RODENSTOCK   INTERCHANGEABLE   LENSES 
FOR   DIAPHRAGM   SHUTTER 
(and/or  single-lens  reflex  cameras) 


image  plan* 


a)  Summaron  1:2.8  b)  Elmar  1:2.1 

f      35mm  f      50mm 


Elmar   1:4 
f      90mm 


a)   Eurygon  1 :4 
f     35mm 


b)   Ysarex  1:2.8 
f     50mm 


c)    Rolelar  1 :4 
f     85mm 


Fig.   3     CONVERTIBLE   LENS:   ONLY  THE   FRONT  ELEMENT 
/  OF  THE  LENS  IS  INTERCHANGEABLE 

(replaceable  by  a  lens  system) 


C=¥=^^ 


diaphragm 


image  plane 


a)  Pantar  in  wide-angle  combination 
1:4;  f=30mm 


b)  Pantar    1  2  8,  f     45mm 
Zeiss 
Fig.  4     ZOOM  LENS  WITH   INFINITELY-VARIABLE   FOCAL 

LENGTH   FOR  SINGLE-LENS   REFLEX  CAMERAS  WITH 
DIAPHRAGM   SHUTTER  OR  FOCAL-PLANE  SHUTTER 


c)  Pantar  in  telecombination    1:4;  f     75mm 


Zoomar  (Voigtlander)  1:2.8;  f       36  to  82  mm 

here  shown  in  telephoto  setting  (82  mm);  by  displacement  of 

the  two  shaded  elements  the  focal  length  can  be  continuously 

shortened 


183 


DIAPHRAGM   SHUTTERS 

The  function  of  a  camera  shutter  is  to  admit  the  light  rays  to  the  film  for  a  con- 
trolled— and  usually  very  brief — length  of  time.  Diaphragm  shutters  are  usually  in 
the  form  of  a  "between-the-lens"  shutter,  i.e.,  the  shutter  is  mounted  in  the  diaphragm 
plane  between  the  individual  elements  which  the  compound  lens  of  the  camera  is 
composed.  In  particular  cases,  however,  the  shutter  may  be  located  directly  behind 
the  lens. 

This  type  of  shutter  comprises  a  number  of  thin  steel  plates  (usually  five),  known  as 
shutter  leaves  or  shutter  blades,  which  rotate  about  pivots  in  such  a  way  that  they 
open  out  in  a  direction  away  from  the  optical  axis,  i.e.,  from  the  centre  of  the  lens 
outwards,  and  then,  on  completion  of  the  exposure,  close  the  lens  by  moving  back 
towards  the  centre.  Before  the  exposure  is  made,  the  shutter  has  to  be  cocked  by 
tensioning  a  spring  ("pre-set  shutter").  This  cocking  operation  is  often  coupled  with 
the  film  advance  motion.  Simple  "everset"  shutters  (with  speeds  of  approx.  j$  to 
jj5  sec.)  are  cocked  only  when  the  releaser  is  depressed.  The  functioning  of  the 
shutter  is  shown  simplified,  with  reference  only  to  one  shutter  leaf  instead  of  the 
actual  five  leaves,  in  Figs,  la  to  Id.  In  Fig.  la  the  shutter  is  still  closed.  Now  the  drive 
element  rotates  in  the  arrowed  direction  (Fig.  lb)  and  thrusts  against  the  shutter- 
opening  pin  of  the  actuating  ring,  causing  the  latter  to  rotate  anti-clockwise.  Other 
pins  mounted  on  this  ring  engage  with  slots  in  the  shutter  leaves  and  cause  these  to 
swing  about  their  respective  pivots.  In  Fig.  lc  the  shutter  is  fully  opened.  Further 
rotation  of  the  drive  element  is  now  prevented  by  an  escapement  mechanism,  which 
is  really  a  kind  of  clockwork  in  which  an  oscillating  anchor  controls  the  movements 
of  the  cog-wheels.  When  the  exposure  period  (up  to  1  sec.)  has  ended  and  the  escape- 
ment has  run  down,  the  drive  element  continues  its  rotation  in  the  same  direction  as 
before.  A  projection  on  the  drive  element  now  thrusts  against  the  shutter-closing  pin 
on  the  actuating  ring  and  causes  this  ring  to  rotate  in  the  reverse  direction,  so  that  the 
shutter  leaves  close  again. 

The  actual  opening  and  closing  movements  are  accomplished  in  about  2  milli- 
seconds (=t^o  sec->  see  Fig.  2a).  The  "shutter  open"  time  regulated  by  the  escape- 
ment is  therefore  about  2  milliseconds  shorter  than  the  nominal  exposure  time  to 
which  the  shutter  mechanism  has  been  set.  For  very  short  exposures  (jo  sec.  and 
less ;  Fig.  2b)  the  escapement  is  disconnected  and  an  auxiliary  spring  speeds  up  the 
shutter  movements  still  more. 

Some  cameras  are  equipped  with  a  self-timer  (automatic  release).  When  this  device 
is  used,  actuation  of  the  releaser  first  sets  a  delayed-action  mechanism  in  motion 
which  initiates  the  movement  of  the  shutter  leaves  after  an  interval  of  5  to  10  seconds. 

For  flashlight  photography  the  actual  flash  must  be  synchronised  with  the  opening 
of  the  shutter.  Most  shutters  are  provided  with  a  so-called  X  contact  which  establishes 
electrical  contact  at  the  instant  when  the  shutter  is  fully  opened  (electronic  flash). 
"Fully  synchronised"  shutters  are  additionally  equipped  with  an  M  contact,  which 
ignites  the  flash  about  16  milliseconds  earlier,  so  as  to  give  the  somewhat  slower 
flash  produced  by  a  flashbulb  sufficient  time  to  attain  its  maximum  intensity  (cf. 
page  208). 


184 


drive  element 

shutter-opening  pin 


shutter  leaf 


actuating  ring 


pivot  of  the  shutter  leaf 


shutter-closing  pin 


light  flux 


Fig.   1      SEQUENCE  OF  MOVEMENTS  OF  A  SHUTTER  LEAF 


0,5 


/ 

>^— 

\ 

l\ 

/ 

\ 

i 

\ 

/ 

\ 

If 

\\ 

/ 

LI 

i 

\ 

/ 

V 

/ 

\ 

time 

/ 

,\ 

/ 

_L_ 

(milliseconds) 

ope 

ling 

exposure 
illisec.  =  1/125 

do! 

I*" 

mg 

exposu 

k-      — i 

re 

8  m 

sec. 

r          i 
2  millisec.  =  1/500  sec. 

Fig.   2     LIGHT  FLUX  /  TIME   DIAGRAM  OF  A  DIAPHRAGM 
SHUTTER 


185 


FOCAL   PLANE   SHUTTERS 

If  the  camera  is  fitted  with  interchangeable  lenses  for  long  and  short  focal  lengths 
respectively,  or  if  the  camera  is  to  be  used  with  close-up  adapter  rings  and  bellows 
attachment,  or  mounted  on  a  microscope,  then  it  must  be  equipped  with  a  shutter 
which  moves  in  a  plane  just  in  front  of  the  film.  A  shutter  of  this  kind  is  known  as  a 
focal  plane  shutter. 

A  focal  plane  shutter  comprises  two  opaque  roller  blinds  which  move  in  the  same 
guide  tracks  (Fig.  1).  When  the  shutter  release  is  actuated,  the  first  blind  is  drawn 
aside  and  rolled  on  to  a  spool  by  means  of  a  spring.  After  a  certain  pre-set  interval  of 
time  the  second  blind  unrolls  at  the  same  speed  and  covers  the  film  again.  The  two 
blinds  thus  form  a  slit  which  travels  across  the  film  gate.  If  the  shutter  has  been  set 
to  a  long  exposure  (Fig.  2),  the  second  roller  blind  will  wait  a  relatively  long  time 
before  following  the  first  blind ;  in  that  case  the  slit  is  very  wide.  With  a  short  exposure 
the  second  blind  will  quickly  follow  the  first,  so  that  only  a  very  narrow  moving  slit 
is  formed  (Fig.  3). 

The  roller  blinds  may  be  designed  to  move  either  longitudinally  across  the  picture 
area,  i.e.,  a  distance  of  36  mm  (as  in  Fig.  1),  or  transversely,  i.e.,  a  distance  of  24  mm 
(as  in  Fig.  4).  Most  focal  plane  shutters  of  the  roller  blind  type  are  designed  to  operate 
at  speeds  down  to  j^jq  sec.  Such  short  exposures  are  obtained  by  narrowing  down 
the  slit,  as  already  explained,  while  the  speed  of  travel  of  the  blinds  remain  the  same. 
The  entire  duration  of  the  exposure  procedure  is  therefore  substantially  longer  than 
j^jc  sec.  If  the  subject  of  the  photograph  is  moving  rapidly  past  the  camera,  the 
image  it  forms  on  the  film  will  be  travelling  either  ''along  with"  or  "against"  the 
direction  of  movement  of  the  slit.  This  could  cause  a  certain  distortion  (elongation  or 
shortening)  of  the  image,  as  was  indeed  found  to  occur  in  the  older  large  cameras 
equipped  with  such  shutters.  However,  in  modern  miniature  cameras  using  35  mm 
film  the  slit  takes  less  than  5^  sec.  to  travel  across  the  picture  area.  The  image  of  a 
fast-moving  object  in  front  of  the  camera,  such  as  a  racing  car,  which  takes,  say,  3  sec. 
to  traverse  the  picture  area  would  therefore  undergo  a  distortion  of  10%.  The 
vehicle  would  have  to  be  travelling  very  fast  indeed  for  this  effect  to  be  objectionably 
noticeable. 

The  operating  time  of  the  shutter  is,  however,  a  very  significant  factor  in  flashlight 
photography.  With  short  exposure  times  the  brightness  of  the  flashbulb  must  remain 
approximately  constant  for  at  least  the  length  of  time  required  for  the  slit  to  traverse 
the  image.  With  an  electronic  flash  or  flashbulb  with  a  very  short  flash  period  this 
condition  would  not  be  fulfilled,  and  in  that  case  only  a  narrow  strip  of  the  film 
(corresponding  to  the  width  of  the  shutter  slit  at  the  actual  time  of  the  flash)  would  be 
exposed.  To  synchronise  the  camera  to  flashlight  equipment  of  this  kind  it  is  there- 
fore necessary  so  to  adjust  the  exposure  time  that  the  slit  width  exceeds  the  width  of 
the  film  gate  at  the  instant  of  flash.  In  modern  cameras  this  exposure  time  is  about 
3\jsec. 


186 


blind  2 


Al 


T]  film  9ate  rfl 


\  \  \\ 


\\\ 


SSI. 


V8I.WwJ 


\:s.:s.:g:: 


'/ ., 


i 


Fig.    1      FOCAL-PLANE  SHUTTER  (schematic) 


blind  1 


blind  2 


blind  1 


picture  area 


—     beginning 


exposure 


Hiininn 

0       Aoo       /ioo 

j.  2     MOTION  OF  THE   BLINDS   FOR 
LONG  EXPOSURE  (J/25sec.) 


picture  area 


jnd     _ 


IIV100 


0        2/ioo 
Fig.  3     MOTION  OF  THE  BLINDS  FOR 
SHORT  EXPOSURE  (1/200  sec.) 


blind  1 


blind  2 


© 


I 


rocking  springs 


\D 


spring  retainer 


=\= 


u\  r~C  — t 

Ttt  -P  ■  ffff  T\m  D 


iwwtm 


■  I  (I'll. Ml  I  I1!  1 1  TO 


# 


FT 


0J 


locking  spring 

j p  spindle  of 

■"  lower  blind 


Fig.   4     MECHANISM  OF   A   FOCAL-PLANE  SHUTTER 


187 


SPEED   OF  A   CAMERA   LENS 

The  "speed"  or  light-transmitting  power  of  a  lens  can  be  visualised  by  conceiving 
the  camera  as  a  closed  chamber  with  an  opening  (a  window)  at  one  end  (Fig.  1).  The 
wall  opposite  the  window  will  receive  more  light  in  proportion  as  the  window  is 
larger  and  the  distance  from  the  wall  to  the  window  is  less.  All  the  light  rays  entering; 
the  eye  of  an  observer  standing  at  the  rear  wall  of  the  chamber  will  form  a  cone, 
whose  base  is  bounded  by  the  edges  of  the  window.  The  larger  the  window  is,  thei 
wider  will  be  the  cone  and  the  greater  will  be  the  amount  of  light  entering  the  ob- 
server's eye.  The  ratio  of  the  diameter  of  window  opening  (assuming  it  to  be  circular) 
to  the  length  of  the  chamber  is  therefore  a  criterion  of  the  "width"  of  the  cone  of' 
light  rays. 

In  a  camera  the  rear  wall  is  formed  by  the  film,  each  point  of  which  receives  a , 
quantity  of  light  corresponding  to  the  width  (or  diameter)  of  the  aperture.  Normally  \ 
the  distance  between  the  lens  and  the  film  is  approximately  equal  to  the  focal  length 
of  the  lens.  The  larger  the  lens  is,  the  more  light  it  can  transmit  into  the  camera.! 
For  this  reason  the  transmitting  power  of  a  lens  is  characterised  by  the  ratio  of  the! 
diameter  of  the  effective  aperture  to  the  focal  length.  This  is  called  the  lens  aperture 
ratio  or  relative  aperture  of  the  lens  (Fig.  2).  For  example,  if  a  camera  lens  has  ani 
aperture  of  25  mm  diameter  and  a  focal  length  of  50  mm,  its  aperture  ratio  is  25 :  50  = 
1 :2,  where  the  figure  2  is  the  so  called  "/-number"  (often  designated  as//2).  If  the^ 
aperture  is  reduced  to  12.5  mm,  by  appropriately  altering  the  aperture  setting  (i.e., 
by  closing  the  stop  or  diaphragm),  then  the  ratio  will  become  12.5:50=  1:4, 
i.e.,//4.  The  aperture  with  half  the  diameter  has  only  a  quarter  of  the  area  of  the: 
initial  aperture  and  therefore  admits  only  a  quarter  of  the  initial  amount  of  light 
into  the  camera  (Fig.  2b).  The /-numbers  (aperture  settings)  of  a  camera  lens  arei 
usually  so  arranged  that  each  next  higher /-number  corresponds  to  a  reduction  ol 
about  one-half  in  the  light-transmitting  power  of  the  lens,  e.g. : 

aperture  (/-number)       1.4 
relative  brightness  1 

Hence  a  lens  with//2.8  is  sixteen  times  "faster"  than  one  with //l  1.  If,  for  instance, 
an  exposure  time  of  5^5  sec.  is  sufficient  at//2.8,  it  will  be  necessary  to  give  sixteen 
times  as  long  an  exposure  at//l  1,  i.e.,  about  yo  sec.  For  a  telephoto  lens  with  a  focal 
length  of,  say,  100  mm  to  have  the  same  speed  as  the  above-mentioned  normal  lens 
of  50  mm  focal  length,  it  will  have  to  have  twice  the  diameter  of  lens  (Fig.  3).  This 
larger  lens  will  transmit  four  times  as  much  light,  but  as  the  image  formed  on  the 
film  is  twice  as  large  linearly,  i.e.,  has  four  times  the  area  of  the  image  formed  by  the 
normal  lens,  the  brightness  remains  the  same.  With  close-up  photography  (Fig.  4)  the 
distance  between  the  lens  and  the  film  will  become  larger  than  the  focal  length  of  the 
lens,  so  that  the  cone  of  illumination  becomes  narrower  and  the  actual  light-trans- 
mitting effect  of  the  lens  diminishes  even  though  the  aperture  is  not  altered.  II 
supplementary  lenses  are  used  for  close-up  work,  however,  the  focal  length  of  the 
lens  system  as  a  whole  is  thereby  reduced,  but  not  the  distance  from  lens  to  film ;  the 
actual  light-transmitting  effect  is  therefore  not  reduced.  In  the  case  of  a  compound 
lens  it  is  not  possible  to  determine  the  effective  aperture  merely  from  the  diameters 
of  the  component  elements  and  the  diameter  of  the  diaphragm.  The  effective  aperture 
is  called  the  "entrance  pupil";  it  depends  on  the  diaphragm  and  forms  the  boundary 
of  the  beam  of  rays  which  is  concentrated  on  the  film. 


2 

2.8 

4 

5.6 

8 

11 

16 

1 
2 

1 

4 

1 

8 

1 

16 

1 

32 

1 
54 

ns 

low  intensity  of  illumination  high  intensity  of  illumination 


short  distance 


H  \- 


short  distance 


Fig.   1 


|  low  intensity 
^  of  illumination 


h — 

Fig.  2     LENS  APERTURE  RATIOS 

a)     -r-  /P^  1  :  2 


long  distance 


Fig.  4     DIMINISHED  LIGHT-TRANSMITTING 
EFFECT  IN  CLOSE-UPS 


189 


AUTOMATIC  EXPOSURE  CONTROL 

The  object  of  automatic  exposure  control  is  to  make  things  easier  for  the  amateur  pho- 
tographer who  has  no  relish  for,  or  interest  in,  the  technicalities  of  working  a  camera.  He  is 
thus  spared  the  trouble  of  determining  the  correct  exposure  and  of  selecting  and  setting  the 
aperture  (/-number)  and  shutter  speed. 

The  various  systems  are  all  derived  from  one  simple  principle:  the  basis  is  a  built-in  ex- 
posure meter  which  detects  the  brightness  of  the  subject  to  be  photographed.  In  many  8  mm 
cine  cameras  the  light  received  by  the  meter  is  transformed  into  a  force  which  is  directly 
applied  to  the  adjustment  of  the  lightly  constructed  moving  diaphragm.  However,  in  larger 
standard-size  cameras  an  auxiliary  force  is  needed  for  adjusting  the  iris  diaphragm  and  shut- 
ter speed.  This  force  is  provided  either  by  the  user  of  the  camera  when  he  presses  the  release 
button,  or  it  is  stored  up  in  a  spring  which  is  wound  beforehand. 

When  the  camera  is  pointed  at  the  subject,  the  needle  of  the  measuring  device  of  the  ex- 
posure meter  inside  the  camera  will  be  deflected  a  greater  or  less  amount,  depending  on  the 
brightness.  When  the  release  button  is  actuated,  the  needle  is  first  arrested  by  a  stirrup  bar 
which  presses  against  it  and  thereby  holds  it  immovable.  This  position  of  the  needle  deter- 
mines the  exposure  value.  Then  a  scanner  arm  is  moved  until  it  touches  the  arrested  needle. 
At  the  other  end  of  the  scanner  are  the  devices  which  set  the  exposure  time  and  the  aperture. 

The  three  most  frequently  encountered  methods  of  automatic  exposure  control  will  now 
be  further  explained  with  reference  to  the  somewhat  simplified  accompanying  diagrams: 

1.  Diaphragm  control:  To  adapt  the  lens  to  the  brightness  conditions,  only  the  aperture  is 
varied.  Before  the  exposure,  the  lens  is  set  to  its  maximum  aperture.  On  release,  the  dia- 
phragm ring  is  rotated  until  the  toothed  stop  ratchet  engages  with  a  pawl  mounted  on  the 
scanner.  This  will  occur  at  an  earlier  or  later  instant,  depending  on  the  position  of  the  ex- 
posure meter  needle  detected  by  the  scanner  arm,  and  the  size  of  the  aperture  will  accord- 
ingly be  larger  or  smaller  (alternatively,  the  scanner  may  directly  control  the  diaphragm). 

The  exposure  time  is  always  the  same.  When  the  user  loads  his  camera  with  a  certain  type 
of  film  and  sets  the  camera  to  the  film  speed  (sensitivity  of  the  film),  he  really  selects  the 
shutter  speed  appropriate  to  that  film.  For  example,  a  film  of  18  DIN  will  require  an  ex- 
posure time  of  ifesec,  while  a  15  DIN  film,  which  is  only  about  half  as  sensitive,  will  require 
-^•sec.  The  exposure  time  is  accordingly  adjusted  automatically  over  the  aperture  range  from, 
say,  //2.8  to  f/22.  If  a  more  sensitive  film  is  used,  it  does  not  enable  photographs  to  be 
taken  under  poorer  lighting  conditions,  but  it  does  enable  the  exposure  time  to  be  reduced 
(e.g.,  to-g^sec.  for  a  24  DIN  film),  which  is  essential  for  photographing  fast-moving  objects, 
as  in  the  case  of  sports  events. 

2.  Programme  control  of  diaphragm  and  shutter  speed:  The  exposure  meter  measures  the 
brightness  and  its  needle  position  is  scanned  as  already  described.  In  this  system,  however,  a 
so-called  programme  ring  is  rotated,  which  effects  continuous  adjustment  of  the  shutter 
speed  and  the  aperture  through  the  agency  of  control  cams  and  rods;  for  example: 

2.8      2.8  -»  4  -»  5.6    5.6  ->  8       8  -+   11      11  -*  16->  22 


This  range  of  values  shows  that  first  the  shutter  speed  is  increased  (i.e.,  the  exposure  time  is 
shortened)  as  a  precaution  against  blurring  of  the  picture  as  a  result  of  shaking  the  camera. 
Then,  when  the  lens  has  been  stopped  down  to  give  better  depth  of  field  (see  page  192)— at 
about  /'/  8,  say— the  exposure  times  are  further  shortened  for  photographing  fast-moving  ob- 
jects. The  film  speed  has  already  been  taken  into  account  in  scanning  the  exposure  meter 
needle,  the  meter  having  first  (at  the  time  of  loading  the  camera  with  that  particular  film) 
been  appropriately  pre-set  to  that  film  speed. 

3.  Exposure  time  pre-selection  and  diaphragm  control:  With  this  system  the  user  of  the 
camera  can  choose  the  exposure  time  and  the  aperture  for  himself.  The  exposure  time  ring 
is  coupled  to  the  DIN  (or  ASA  film  speed)  ring,  so  that  any  alteration  to  the  shutter  adjust- 
ment will  automatically  also  adjust  the  exposure  meter  mechanism.  The  exposure  meter 
needle  gives  readings  on  a  scale  of  aperture  settings  (/-numbers)  seen  in  the  viewfinder.  By 
altering  the  exposure  time,  it  is  also  possible  to  pre-select  the  aperture,  which  constantly 
adjusts  itself  to  the  light  conditions. 


190 


shutter  release 


meter  needle 


exposure  meter 


shutter 


Fig.   1      DIAPHRAGM  CONTROL 


rotating  disc  of  meter 


control  pins  (guided  by  the  cams) 
adjust  the  diaphragm  and  shutter 


film  speed  setting 


viewfinder  window 


Fig.  2     PROGRAMME  CONTROL 
OF  DIAPHRAGM 
AND  SHUTTER  SPEED 


Fig.  3     EXPOSURE  TIME 
PRE-SELECTION 
AND  DIAPHRAGM 
CONTROL 


exposure  time  ring  and  film  speed 
ring  interconnected  by  rod  (which  can 
be  disconnected,  if  desired) 


191 


DEPTH   OF  FIELD   (DEPTH   OF   FOCUS) 


By  depth  of  field  (or  depth  of  focus)  in  photography  is  understood  the  range  of 
distances  within  which  the  subject  must  be  located  in  relation  to  the  camera  in  order 
to  produce  a  reasonably  sharply  focused  image.  I  +  I  _  1 

According  to  the  well-known  formula  for  lenses         g      b  ~  f 

(see  page  158),  only  one  object  plane  (Ge)  is  sharply  focused  in  the  image  plane 
(fle)  (Fig.  1).  Objects  which  are  farther  away  from  the  lens  than  the  distance  Ge  have  a 
larger  image  distance  so  that  the  image-forming  rays  of  light  converge  at  a  plane  Bn 
behind  the  image  plane  Be  to  which  the  lens  has  been  focussed.  The  image  actually 
formed  on  Be  (i.e.,  on  the  film)  will  therefore  not  be  in  focus  but  will,  instead,  be 
somewhat  blurred.  Similarly,  the  image  of  an  object  which  is  closer  to  the  lens  than 
the  distance  Ge  will  have  a  shorter  image  distance  and  at  a  plane  Bw  in  front  of  the 
plane  Be.  The  image  actually  formed  on  Be  will  therefore  likewise  be  blurred. 

In  reality,  however,  there  is  some  latitude.  The  sharpness  of  vision  of  the  human 
eye  has  its  limitations,  and  some  lack  of  sharpness  in  the  image  can  be  tolerated 
without  being  objectionably  noticeable  as  blurring  of  the  picture.  Just  how  much 
lack  of  sharpness  is  acceptable  will  depend  on  how  much  the  picture  is  to  be  enlarged 
and  on  how  much  importance  the  observer  attaches  to  distinguishing  minute  details 
in  the  picture.  In  a  sharply  focused  image  each  point  of  the  object  is  reproduced  as  a 
point  in  the  image.  If  the  image  is  out  of  focus,  each  point  is  reproduced  as  a  tiny 
circle  of  finite  diameter  in  the  image.  For  amateur  photographic  purposes  a  diameter 
of  jo  mm  is  considered  a  permissible  limit  for  this  so-called  "circle  of  confusion" 
for  6  cm  x  6  cm  (pictures  and  jo  mm  for  miniature  size  (24  mm  x  36  mm). 

The  size  of  the  circle  of  confusion  depends  on  three  factors : 

1.  The  distance :  The  farther  a  point  is  located  away  from  the  object  plane  (Ge)  on 
which  the  camera  has  been  focused,  the  farther  will  its  image  be  outside  the  cor- 
responding image  plane  (Be)  (Fig.  2).  The  closer  the  object*  is  to  the  lens,  the  greater 
will  its  image  distance  vary.  For  this  reason  the  available  depth  of  field  beyond  the 
focused  distance  is  always  greater  than  that  in  front  of  the  focused  distance ;  for 
example,  when  the  camera  is  focused  on  an  object  20  m  away,  the  depth  of  field  may 
range  from  10  m  to  infinity.  With  close-ups  the  depth  of  field  diminishes  con- 
siderably and  may  be  no  more  than  a  few  centimetres  or  indeed  a  few  millimetres. 

2.  The  aperture :  When  the  camera  is  stopped  down  (i.e.,  the  diaphragm  is  closed), 
the  cone  of  light  rays  is  narrowed  and  the  circle. of  confusion  is  reduced  in  diameter. 
In  Fig.  2  the  reproduction  of  the  points  III  and  IV  was  too  blurred,  but  after  the  aper- 
ture has  been  reduced  (Fig.  3),  the  corresponding  circles  of  confusion  are  no  larger 
than  those  of  I'  and  II'  previously.  (The  circles  of  confusion  associated  with  I'  and  II' 
have  similarly  been  reduced). 

3.  The  focal  length  (Figs.  4a  and  4b;  cf.  page  158):  As  already  stated,  the  image 
distance  varies  very  considerably  when  the  object  is  brought  close  to  the  lens.  An 
object  which  is  at  a  distance  of,  say,  5  m  from  the  camera  will  be  practically  located 
at  infinity  for  a  wide-angle  lens  with  a  focal  length  of  35  mm  (cf.  page  180),  whereas 
for  a  telephoto  lens  with  a  focal  length  of  500  mm  it  will  be  almost  in  the  close-up 
range.  Hence  wide-angle  lenses  and  lenses  of  short  focal  length  have  a  greater  depth 
of  field.  Of  course,  this  advantage  is  cancelled  if,  in  order  to  obtain  the  same  size 
of  image,  the  picture  subsequently  has  to  be  considerably  enlarged  or  the  camera 
has  to  be  brought  closer  to  the  subject. 

Depth-of-field  tables  for  camera  lenses  can  be  based  on  these  considerations.  Most 
lenses  have  a  depth-of-field  scale  (Fig.  5)  on  which  the  apertures  (/-numbers)  are 
indicated  symmetrically  in  relation  to  the  focussing  mark.  For  example,  if  the  lens 
of  a  miniature  camera  has  been  set  to//ll  and  is  focussed  to  3.3  m,  the  scale  shows 
that  the  depth  of  field  extends  from  2.2  to  6.8  m,  meaning  that  anything  within  this 
range  will  be  within  reasonably  sharp  focus.  Conversely,  if  the  subject  to  be  photo- 
graphed is  of  some  considerable  depth,  the  photographer  will  rotate  the  distance- 
setting  ring  until  the  nearest  and  the  farthest  point  are  located  opposite  equal 
/-numbers,  and  he  will  then  set  the  aperture  to  this  number. 

*  The  term  "object"  is  used  in  optics  generally;  more  particularly  in  photography  the  term  "subject" 
is  used  to  denote  the  person  or  thing  to  be  photographed. 

192 


Fig.    1      HOW  THE  CIRCLE  OF  CONFUSION   IS  CAUSED 


permissible  diameter  of 
circle  of  confusion 


Fig.   3      INCREASING  THE  DEPTH   OF   FOCUS 
BY  REDUCING  THE  APERTURE 


permissible  diameter  of 
circle  of  confusion 


nfinity  depth  of  focus 


diameter  of  circle 
of  confusion 


Fig.  4     DEPTH  OF  FOCUS  FOR  LONG  (a) 
AND  SHORT  (b)  FOCAL  LENGTH 


adjustable  ring 
for  focusing 


n 


2  '  2,5     3        4    5    7 10 

■■■■'■'f   ■■'|-"l 
16118     4      A     4    81116 


fixed  ring  with  aperture  numbers 
Fig.  5     DEPTH-OF-FOCUS  SCALE 


diameter  of  circle 
of  confusion 


193 


EXPOSURE   METER 

In  photography,  exposure  meters  are  used  for  determining  the  correct  exposure 
time  for  a  pre-selected  aperture  (/-number)  and  a  given  film  speed.  Besides  optical 
exposure  meters,  electric  exposure  meters  are  now  predominantly  used.  The  light 
reflected  from  the  subject  into  the  meter  is  converted  into  a  feeble  electric  current 
by  means  of  a  photo-electric  cell  (cf.  page  120).  This  current  is  measured  by  the  de- 
flection of  a  needle  or  pointer,  the  deflection  being  larger  or  smaller  according  to  the 
brightness  of  the  subject.  The  precise  exposure  time  (for  the  given  film  speed  and 
aperture  setting)  is  indicated  on  an  appropriate  scale. 

The  two  principal  parts  of  an  electric  exposure  meter  are  the  photo-electric  cell 
and  the  measuring  device.  A  device  for  admitting  the  light  and  a  contrivance  for 
obtaining  the  required  readings  are  additional  features.  The  light  which  enters 
through  a  honeycomb  lens  and  a  cellular  grid  strikes  the  photo-electric  cell  (the 
object  of  the  lens  and  grid  is  to  confine  the  angle  of  entry  of  the  light  approximately 
to  the  angular  field  of  a  normal  camera  lens).  The  photo-electric  cell  consists  of  an 
iron  plate  provided  with  a  thin  coating  of  selenium,  which  in  turn  is  covered  with  a 
coating  of  platinum  of  such  extreme  thinness  (about  i00ooo  mm) as  to  De  transparent 
to  light.  When  light  strikes  the  selenium,  electrons  are  released  in  the  latter.  These 
enter  the  platinum  coating  and,  as  a  result,  an  electric  current — a  very  feeble  one, 
it  is  true — will  flow  in  a  circuit  connecting  the  platinum  and  the  iron  plate.  The  light 
striking  the  selenium  thus  produces  an  electric  current ;  this  current  is  stronger  in 
proportion  as  the  light  intensity  (i.e.,  the  brightness  of  the  subject)  is  greater,  and 
vice  versa.  If  a  small  current  measuring  instrument  is  included  in  the  circuit,  the 
pointer  of  this  instrument  will  provide  an  indication  of  the  strength  of  the  current. 
The  appropriate  exposure  times  for  various  aperture  settings  can  then  be  read  from 
a  special  scale  which  is  adjustable  to  the  deflection  of  the  pointer.  Pre-adjustment 
to  the  appropriate  film  speed  (sensitivity  of  the  film)  is  provided. 

Fig.  2  shows  the  internal  parts  of  a  well  known  type  of  exposure  meter.  The 
adjusting  knob  is  turned  until  the  curved  line  marked  on  the  roller  rotated  by  this 
knob  coincides  with  the  intersection  of  the  pointer  with  the  reference  line.  At  the 
same  time,  bevel  gears  connected  to  the  adjusting  knob  cause  a  flexible  band,  on 
which  the  exposure  times  and  exposure  values  are  marked,  to  move  in  relation  to 
the  fixed  scale  of/:numbers.  The  roller  with  the  curve  is  adjustable  to  suit  the  parti- 
cular speed  (sensitivity)  of  the  film  used. 

In  other  exposure  meters  the  arrangement  of  the  scales  of  exposure  times  and 
/-numbers  may  be  rather  different,  though  the  general  principle  is  the  same  as  that 
described. 

Instead  of  selenium  photo-electric  cells,  so-called  photo-resistances  are  nowadays 
used  in  some  exposure  meters  (Fig.  4).  A  photo-resistance  does  not  convert  light  into 
electrical  energy  but  undergoes  a  change  in  electrical  resistance  when  light  strikes  it. 
The  resistance  to  the  passage  of  current  diminishes  with  increasing  light  intensity,  so 
that  the  current — which  has  to  be  provided  by  an  auxiliary  source  such  as  a  small 
battery — becomes  stronger.  Meters  of  this  type  can  be  made  sufficiently  sensitive 
to  respond  to  very  weak  light  (e.g.,  moonlight). 

The  exposure  meter  is  mostly  used  by  pointing  it  at  the  subject  to  be  photo- 
graphed (reflected  light  measurement).  Alternatively,  the  light  that  actually  illumin- 
ates the  subject  may  be  measured.  This  includes  the  light  reflected  from  adjacent 
objects.  For  this  reason  a  so-called  incident  light  attachment  or  a  light  diffuser  is 
used,  enabling  light  to  be  directed  into  the  meter  over  a  much  wider  angle  of  entry 
(Fig.  4). 

With  regard  to  built-in  exposure  meters  for  automatic  exposure  control,  see 
page  190. 


194 


honeycomb  lens 
cellular  grid 

photo-electric  ce 


current 


current  meter 


ig.   1      MAIN  FUNCTIONAL  PARTS  OF  AN  EXPOSURE 
METER 


light  entering 


mbers 


ht  val 


lens 

photo-sensitive  layer 

photo-resistance  (decreases 
when  light  increases) 

glass  bulb 


opaque  Casing 


current  meter 


exposure  times 


Fig.  3     PHOTO-RESISTANCE  (schematic) 


adjusting  knob 
reference  line 

roller  with  curved  lines 


needle  of 
current  meter 


light  diffuser 


current  meter 


Fig.  2     ELECTRIC  EXPOSURE  METER 
(reflected  light  measurement) 


Fig.  4     ELECTRIC  EXPOSURE  METER 
(incident  light  measurement) 


195 


COLOUR    PRINTING 

Colour  printing  in  the  present  context  refers  to  the  production  of  photo-engraved 
colour  plates  by  means  of  the  three-  and  four-colour  processes. 

If  an  area  is  covered  with  a  mosaic-like  pattern  of  dots  in  the  three  primary  colours 
(yellow,  red,  blue)  (Fig.  lc)  and  is  viewed  from  a  sufficiently  long  distance  (so  that  the 
individual  points  cannot  be  separately  distinguished),  it  appears  grey.  If  numerous 
dots  in  two  primary  colours  are  placed  side  by  side  (Fig.  lc,  lower  squares)  they  will, 
when  viewed  from  a  distance,  appear  as  a  mixed  (or  compound)  colour.  This  apparent 
merging  of  colours  to  give  the  appearance  of  another  colour  is  one  of  the  funda- 
mental principles  of  colour  printing.  The  first  step  in  preparing  four-colour  printing 
plates  from  the  original  painting  or  photographic  transparency  is  to  make  colour- 
separation  negatives  by  means  of  colour  filters  on  the  camera.  A  different  filter  is  used 
for  each  colour  negative.  Each  filter  allows  only  its  complementary  colour  to  pass. 
To  make  a  negative  for  the  blue  printing  plate,  a  red  filter  is  used;  for  the  yellow 
printing  plate,  a  blue-violet  filter;  for  the  red  printing  plate,  a  green  filter.  A  pale 
yellow  filter  is  used  for  obtaining  the  black  values.  These  various  colour  negatives 
are  shown  in  Figs,  lb,  2b  and  3b;  the  colours  of  the  corresponding  filters  are  shown 
in  Figs,  la,  2a  and  3a.  The  purpose  of  the  black  plate  (Fig.  4)  is  to  cover  certain  white 
areas  of  the  base  (i.e.,  the  paper  on  which  the  picture  is  printed)  and  to  give  depth  and 
detail  to  the  picture. 

The  negatives  are  developed,  printed  on  metal,  and  etched  in  much  the  same  way 
as  when  making  a  monochrome  halftone  plate.  The  plates  are  inked  and  printed  in 
the  sequence  shown  (Fig.  1  Fig.  4),  each  being  superimposed  exactly  upon  the  other. 
The  picture  is  successively  thus  built  up  step  by  step,  as  shown  in  Figs.  2c,  3c  and  5. 
The  surface  of  each  printing  plate  is  composed  of  a  large  number  of  dots,  these  being 
formed  by  a  special  process.  When  the  four  colours  from  the  plates  are  superimposed, 
the  resulting  print  contains  not  only  the  four  colours,  but  also  the  compound 
colours  formed  by  the  blending  of  these.  Fig.  6  is  an  enlarged  detail  of  Fig.  5  and  shows 
how  this  effect  is  obtained. 

To  achieve  good  results,  it  is  of  course  essential  to  make  the  successive  coloured 
impressions  register  exactly  one  upon  the  other.  The  coloured  inks  must  be  clear  and 
clean,  and  variations  in  the  shade  and  intensity  of  the  colours  must  be  avoided.  In 
some  cases,  to  obtain  very  high  quality,  it  may  be  necessary  to  employ  auxiliary 
colours.  Sometimes,  too,  the  colour  negatives  may  have  to  be  retouched  by  hand. 


196 


COLOUR  TELEVISION 

A  certain  type  of  colour  television  camera  contains  three  image  orthicon  tubes 
(see  page  146).  By  means  of  a  system  of  mirrors  and  colour  filters  the  first  tube  forms 
a  red  image  (R),  the  second  forms  a  green  image  (G),  and  the  third  forms  a  blue  image 
(B).  The  three  camera  tubes  have  essentially  identical  scanning  patterns,  so  that  the 
picture  signals  developed  by  the  respective  tubes  represent  images  which  are  identical 
except  that  they  differ  in  colour.  (See  Fig.  1). 

By  means  of  an  electric  transmission  system  the  primary  colour  signals  £R,  £G 
and  £B  are  simultaneously  fed  to  three  colour  picture  tubes  and  converted  back  into 
three  separate  colour  images  (red,  green  and  blue).  By  means  of  a  system  of  colour- 
selective  (dichroic)  mirrors  the  viewer  sees  the  three  pictures  as  one  superimposed 
picture  in  which  the  three  colours  are  blended  to  give  additively  mixed  colours,  just 
as  in  colour  printing  (see  page  197). 

In  the  system  developed  by  the  National  Television  System  Committee  (NTSC 
system)  in  the  United  States,  the  £R,  £G,  £B  signals  (primary  colour  Signals)  are 
converted  by  a  device  called  a  colour  coder  into  a  luminance  (i.e.,  brightness  or 
"brilliance")  signal,  £Y  and  a  chrominance  signal.  Chrominance  comprises  two 
independent  characteristic  quantities:  "hue"  and  "saturation".  The  luminance 
signal  can  be  received  by  an  ordinary  (monochrome)  television  receiver  and  pro- 
duces a  black-and-white  picture.  This  technique  comprising  a  luminance  and  a 
chrominance  transmission  is  known  as  compatible  colour  television.  The  luminance 
signal  is  subtracted  from  the  primary  colour  signals,  and  the  colour-difference  signals 
thus  obtained  are  then  further  combined  to  produce  two  signals  £,  and  £Q,  which 
are  then  mixed  with  the  chrominance  subcarrier  signal.  This  signal  is  amplitude- 
modulated  in  accordance  with  the  saturation  values  and  phase-modulated  in  accord- 
ance with  the  hues.  The  luminance  and  chrominance  components  are  combined  to 
form  the  overall  colour  picture  signal,  which  is  then  transmitted.  The  picture  signal 
wave  is  a  composite  wave  in  which  the  chrominance  wave  is  superimposed  upon 
part  of  the  luminance  wave. 

(Continued) 


198 


COLOUR   TELEVISION 
(continued) 

The  primary  colour  signals,  which  have  been  recast  into  luminance  and  chrom- 
inance components  at  the  transmitter  have  to  be  reconverted  into  primary  colouii 
signals  at  the  receiver  before  they  can  be  applied  to  the  colour  picture  tube.  Instead 
of  using  three  picture  tubes  as  in  the  system  outlined  above,  the  NTSC  system  uses' 
only  one  picture  tube,  known  as  a  shadow-mask  tube,  which  contains  three  electron 
guns  which  produce  three  separate  electron  beams,  which  move  simultaneously  in 
the  scanning  pattern  over  the  viewing  screen  and  which  respectively  produce  a: 
red,  a  green  and  a  blue  image.  The  screen  is  composed  of  three  separate  sets  of 
uniformly  distributed  phosphor  dots.  The  dots  of  each  set  glow  in  a  different  colour 
Electrons  discharged  by  the  gun  controlled  by  the  red  primary  colour  signal  impinge 
only  on  the  red-glowing  phosphor  dots  and  are  prevented  from  impinging  on  the 
green-  and  blue-glowing  dots  by  a  mask  which  contains  about  200,000  tiny  holes 
each  of  which  is  accurately  aligned  with  the  different  coloured  phosphor  dots  on  the 
screen.  Similarly,  the  electrons  from  the  two  other  guns  fall  only  on  the  green  and 
the  blue  dots  respectively.  In  this  way  three  separate  primary  colour  images  are 
formed  simultaneously.  The  dots  producing  the  three  different  colours  are  so  small 
and  so  close  together  that  the  eye  does  not  see  them  as  separate  points  of  light. 

In  the-colour  television  receiver  the  luminance  component  is  applied  simultane- 
ously to  all  three  electron  guns  of  the  picture  tube.  The  receiver  contains  circuits 
which  perform  the  inverse  operations  of  the  addition  and  subtraction  circuits  at  the 
transmitter.  In  this  way  three  colour-difference  signals  are  obtained  (the  difference 
between  the  luminance  signal  and  the  primary  colour  signals).  The  three  colour- 
difference  signals  are  applied  to  the  respective  electron  guns  in  addition  to  the 
luminance  signal.  The  net  control  signal  applied  to  each  gun  corresponds  to  the 
primary  colour  signal  coming  from  the  respective  camera  tube. 


200 


E 

E 

n 

F 

T 

E 

O 

m 

u> 

o 

a> 

E 
E 

o 

E 

oi 

TJ 

* 
rv 

E 

O 

o 

0 

"O 

at 

c 

_0) 

O 

o 

a. 

] 

£ 
E 

c 

0) 

J 

o 

c 
o 

0) 

a 

\ 

t 

c 

\ 

o 

Q. 

IV 

\ 

E 

0 

-C 

^ 


uiiuc^O 


COLOUR    PHOTOGRAPHY 

There  are  many  different  processes  of  colour  photography,  which  differ  in  detail 
but  they  can  be  divided  into  two  main  groups:  additive  processes  (for  transparencies 
only)  and  subtractive  processes  (for  transparencies  and  also  for  paper  prints)  In 
all  cases  the  fundamental  principle  is  the  same:  images  in  three  primary  colours 
must  be  obtained  which,  in  combination  with  one  another,  produce  the  desired 
colour  picture.  The  individual  processes  differ  in  that,  for  example  the  subject 
may  be  photographed  three  times  in  succession  in  three  different  colours  (eg 
yellow,  green,  red)  or  that,  alternatively,  the  three  films  are  exposed  simultaneously 
in  a  special  camera  fitted  with  a  system  of  lenses  and  mirrors  for  achieving  this  result 
or  again  that  only  one  film  is  used,  which  is  provided  with  three  superimposed  layers 
of  emulsion,  each  sensitive  to  a  different  colour.  The  principles  whereby  the  three 
single-colour  images  are  combined  to  produce  the  final  result  also  varies  from  one 
process  to  another.  The  reversal  process  and  the  negative-positive  process  described 
here  belong  to  the  group  of  subtractive  processes,  which  are  now  used  almost 
exclusively  for  colour  prints  on  paper  and  transparencies  for  still  and  motion- 
picture  projection. 

The  emulsion  layers  incorporate  chemicals  which,  on  exposure  to  light  form  dyes 
to  a  degree  corresponding  to  the  amount  of  light.  Most  modern  colour  photo- 
graphic processes  embody  this  principle  of  dye  formation,  which  is  based  on  the  fact 
that  when  a  developer  reacts  with  silver  bromide  to  reduce  it  to  silver  the  resulting 
oxidised  developer  can  react  with  certain  dye-forming  chemicals  (called  couplers) 
to  form  dyes.  The  developers  used  are  diamines. 

In  a  well-known  type  of  colour  film  the  film  is  coated  with  three  emulsion  layers 
which  respond  respectively  to  blue,  green  and  red  light.  A  yellow  filter  layer  is  inter- 


a)  Colours  in  the  subject  to  be  photographed 


SIP* 


3"3I 

5    U,:,O0U 


•vi^^;?^ 


b)  Layers  in  the  film  after  the  first  (black  and  white)  development:  black  grains 
represent  developed  silver,  light  grains  represent  residual  silver  bromide,  yel- 
low filter  layer  still  present 


c)  The  same  film  after  processing:  colour  developed  at  the  residual  silver  bro- 
mide, silver  and  yellow  filter  layer  dissolved  out 


d)  Colours  in  the  finished  film 


202 


posed  between  the  blue-sensitive  top  layer  and  the  two  other  layers  in  order  to 
prevent  blue  light  from  reaching  these.  Positive  pictures  are  obtained  directly  by 
reversal.  First,  the  film  is  developed  to  give  a  negative  in  all  three  layers,  followed  by 
exposure  to  red  light  through  the  base,  and  again  developing;  then  exposure  to  blue 
light  through  the  front,  again  followed  by  developing.  The  silver  in  all  three  layers  is 
bleached  out,  leaving  the  dyes  to  form  the  colour  picture  (see  illustration  below). 

In  another  process,  called  the  negative-positive  process,  the  film  is  coated  with  red-, 
green-  and  blue-sensitive  layers.  After  exposure,  the  film  is  processed  with  a.developer 
which  produces  silver  plus  dye  images  in  each  layer.  The  silver  is  removed,  and  a 
colour  negative  is  obtained.  The  dyes  formed  in  each  layer  have  the  colour  comple- 
mentary to  the  colour  of  the  light  that  caused  it  to  be  formed.  Thus,  blue  light 
produces  a  yellow  dye,  green  light  a  purple  dye,  and  red  light  a  blue-green  dye.  Thus 
all  the  colours  in  the  negative  are  complementary  to  those  in  the  subject  photo- 
graphed. The  negative  is  printed  on  to  paper  coated  with  a  similar  set  of  emulsion 
layers,  so  that  prints  are  obtained  in  which  the  original  colours  of  the  subject  are 
reproduced  (see  illustration).  In  a  refinement  of  this  process  the  film  has  an  extra 
layer  in  which  a  black-and-white  negative  can  be  developed.  This  acts  as  a  mask 
and  improves  the  colour  quality  of  the  print. 

The  coloured  diagrams  show  how  the  final  colour  reproduction  is  obtained.  If 
small  blue  and  yellow  dots  are  situated  close  beside  one  another,  the  overall  visual 
impression  is  of  a  green  colour.  This  is  the  principle  of  additive  colour  blending. 
However,  the  final  transparencies  or  prints  obtained  in  colour  photography  comprise 
superimposed  single-colour  layers  which  are  partly  transparent.  The  layers  act  as 
filters,  so  that  only  those  rays  of  light  which  are  not  absorbed  by  these  layers  reach 
the  eye.  This  is  the  principle  of  subtractive  colour  blending. 


J 


a)  Colours  in 

the  subject  to  be  photograph 

ed 

1 

b)  Layers  in  the  finished  negative 


c)  Finished  negative:  colours  are  complementary  to  those  in  the  subject 


d)  Layers  in  the  finished  positive 


e)  Colours  in  the  finished  positive 


203 


POLAROID-LAND   COLORFILM 


. 


The  processing  of  ordinary  colour  films  to  produce  the  final  result  —  the  colou 
positive — is  a  fairly  laborious  procedure,  involving  a  number  of  operations  per 
formed  under  carefully  controlled  chemical  and  temperature  conditions  and  with 
meticulous  timing. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  colour  photography  process  developed  by  Dr.  Land 
produces  a  colour  positive  in  only  one  minute.  The  film  is  coated  with  three  colour- 
sensitive  layers  containing  silver  halide  crystals,  three  layers  containing  dyes  and 
developers,  and  two  intermediate  layers.  Blue  light  acts  upon  the  blue-sensitive  layer 
I;  green  light  passes  unhindered  to  the  green-sensitive  layer  IV;  red  light  passes 
through  both  these  layers  to  the  red-sensitive  layer  VII.  Now  a  strip  is  pulled  out  of 
the  camera,  causing  a  viscous  developer-activating  paste  to  be  squeezed  out  of  a 
capsule,  while  steel  rollers  press  the  negative  layer  (with  the  squeezed-on  paste) 
firmly  on  to  the  so-called  positive  layer.  The  latter  comprises  the  colour  reception 
layer,  an  intermediate  layer,  and  an  acid  layer  for  neutralising  and  stabilising  the 
colour  image.  The  activating  paste  diffuses  quickly  into  the  negative  layer  and  first  J 
enters  the  blue  sensitive  layer  I,  where  it  develops  the  silver  halide  crystals;  then 
it  liberates  a  yellow  dye  in  layer  II,  passes  through  the  intermediate  layer  III,  develops 
the  silver  halide  crystals  in  the  green-sensitive  layer  IV,  liberates  a  purple  dye  in 
layer  V,  passes  through  the  intermediate  layer  VI,  develops  the  silver  halide  crystals 
in  the  red-sensitive  layer  VII,  and  finally  reaches  the  layer  VIII,  where  a  blue-green 
dye  is  liberated.  All  the  dye  molecules  liberated  by  the  paste  from  the  compounds  in 
which  they  were  previously  held  in  a  latent  form  are  now  free  to  diffuse  in  all  direc- 
tions. Where  they  encounter  a  grain  of  silver  (into  which  a  silver  halide  particle  which 
was  exposed  to  light  has  been  converted  by  the  developing  action)  they  are  retained 
and  held  by  it.  Those  dye  molecules  which  encounter  no  silver  grains  continue  their 
migration  until  they  reach  the  positive  layer,  where  they,  too,  are  held. 

(Continued) 


204 


Fig.    1      EXPOSURE  OF  EIGHT-LAYER  FILM 


no  light  wnite  light 


i 

L_ 

blueiight           gree 

light 

redjfight 

1     °     * 

► 

I          () 

()       ) 

A- 

zv 

]         intermediate  layer 

O 

i 

> 

4 

O    J 

^# 

*• 

J         intermediate  layer 

O 

i 

r 

o 

• 

A# 

A# 

(         base  of  negative  strip                                                                                                        ] 

IV 


VI 


VIII 


direction  of  pull 


A 

&A 

: 

. 

i 

*\^mF* 

acid  layer 

intermediate  layer 

colour  reception  layer 

Fig.  2     THREE-LAYER  POSITIVE  STRIP  IS  PRESSED  AGAINST 
NEGATIVE  STRIP;  DEVELOPER-ACTIVATING   PASTE 
SERVES  AS  "GLUE" 


POLAROID-LAND  COLORFILM 
(continued) 

How  is  the  colour  image  produced?  Where  red  light  has  fallen  on  the  film,  the 
blue-green  dye  from  layer  VIII  is  held  by  the  silver  grains  in  layer  VII.  Since  the  red] 
light  had  no  effect  on  the  layers  IV  and  I  (these  being  sensitive  to  green  and  blue 
respectively)  the  purple  and  the  yellow  dye  respectively  liberated  in  the  layers 
V  and  II  can  pass  freely  to  the  colour-holding  positive  layer.  Yellow  and  purple 
mixed  produce  the  red  colour  in  the  positive  layer.  Blue  light  affects  only  the  blue- 
sensitive  layer  I,  and  the  yellow  dye  formed  in  the  adjacent  layer  is  retained  and  held  ] 
by  the  grains  of  silver  in  layer  I.  But  now  the  purple  dye  from  layer  V  and  the  blue- 
green  dye  from  layer  VIII  can  pass  unhindered  to  the  positive  layer,  where  the  two 
dyes  are  held:  purple  and  blue-green  mixed  produce  blue.  Similarly,  green  light 
affects  on  the  green-sensitive  layer  IV ;  the  silver  grains  in  that  layer  retain  and  hold 
only  the  purple  dye,  whereas  the  blue-green  and  the  yellow  dye  travel  unhindered  to 
the  positive  layer,  where  their  mixture  produces  green.  In  the  case  of  white  light  all 
the  dyes  are  retained,  because  this  light  affects  all  three  colour-sensitive  layers.  In  the 
shadows  ("black"),  no  dye  is  retained,  and  all  three  dyes  reach  the  positive  layer: 
their  mixture  produces  black.  Finally,  water  is  formed  in  an  alkali-neutralising 
process  and  serves  to  wash  the  positive.  The  process  is  illustrated  schematically  in 
the  accompanying  diagrams. 


206 


Ill 

IV 

V 
VI 
VII 

VIII 


r-^  unexposed  M±  exposed         a      f~\  free  dye        a      f~\  retained 

VV  grain  of  silver    ^^  grain  ^*     ^ — J  molecule     *-^     vJ 


of  silver 


Fig.  3     DEVELOPMENT  PROCESS 


dye  molecule 
with  developer  with  developer 


Fig.  4     FINALLY  DEVELOPED  POSITIVE 


FLASH    BULBS   AND   FLASH   GUNS 

Flash  bulbs  are  required  to  produce  the  greatest  possible  light  flux  (measured  in 
lumens)  in  the  fraction  of  a  second  during  which  the  shutter  of  the  camera  is  open. 
The  total  quantity  of  light  emitted  by  a  bulb  during  this  period  is  measured  in 
lumen-seconds.  The  light  is  produced  by  the  combustion  of  a  coil  of  aluminium- 
magnesium  wire  or  zirconium  wire  with  oxygen.  An  electric  current  impulse  from 
the  flash  contact  in  the  camera  causes  a  tungsten  filament  to  glow  and  ignite  small 
pellets  of  a  substance  similar  in  composition  to  the  head  of  a  match,  which  in  turn 
ignite  the  metal  wire  coil.  The  oxygen  filling  in  the  bulb  has  a  pressure  of  less  than 
1  atm.,  which  ensures  that  the  glass  bulb  will  not  shatter  as  a  result  of  the  increase  in 
pressure  due  to  the  explosion-like  combustion  process.  As  a  further  precaution  the 
bulb  is  coated  internally  and  externally  with  a  transparent  lacquer  which  prevents 
glass  splinters  from  flying  about.  For  colour  photography  there  are  flashbulbs  with  a 
blue-tinted  lacquer  which  ensures  that  the  light  emitted  has  a  spectrum  composition 
more  or  less  similar  to  that  of  daylight.  Inside  the  bulb  is  an  indicator  bead  of  a 
blue  cobalt  salt  which  turns  pink  as  the  result  of  penetration  of  atmospheric  moisture 
into  the  bulb  if  the  latter  should  become  defective  by  developing  a  leak  either  during 
manufacture  or  during  subsequent  handling. 

The  light-time  curves  (Fig.  2)  give  information  on  the  light  efficiency  and  the 
application  purpose  of  flashbulbs.  Of  especial  importance  to  synchronisation  with 
the  camera  shutter  is  the  peak  value.,  i.e.,  the  length  of  time  between  the  closing  of  the 
contact  and  the  maximum  light  intensity.  For  ordinary  type  M  flashbulbs  it  is  18  j 
milliseconds.  Most  diaphragm  shutters  have  "X  synchronisation":  contact  is  made 
as  soon  as  the  shutter  is  fully  open  (Fig.  3a).  In  order  that  the  entire  "firing"  process 
of  the  flashbulb  is  completed  while  the  camera  lens  is  open,  the  shutter  speed  must 
be  at  least  30  milliseconds  (about  jq  sec).  For  use  with  faster  shutter  speeds  many 
cameras  are  additionally  equipped  with  a  so-called  "M"  contact,  which  comes  into 
operation  16  milliseconds  before  the  lens  is  fully  open,  so  that  the  shutter  opens 
only  a  short  time  before  the  peak  value  is  reached  and  only  that  part  of  the  firing 
process  which  corresponds  to  maximum  flash  intensity  is  utilised  (Fig.  3b).  For 
comparison,  the  light-time  curve  for  an  electronic  flash  (see  page  210)  is  also  shown 
in  the  two  diagrams:  with  "X"  synchronisation  it  is  possible  to  use  diaphragm 
shutters  up  to  -^  sec;  in  that  case  if  the  contact  is  inadvertently  set  to  "M",  no  light 
from  the  flashbulb  will  reach  the  film. 

With  focal-plane  shutters  the  shutter  action  takes  about  20  to  ^5  sec.  to  accomplish 
and  shorter  exposures  can  be  obtained  only  by  narrowing  the  slit  (see  page  186). 
For  this  reason  the  flashbulb  employed  should  have  a  wider  firing  curve,  so  as  to 
ensure  that  the  light  intensity  on  the  film  at  the  moving  slit  is  constant  over  the  entire 
width  of  the  picture. 

If  the  exposure  time  is  longer  than  the  firing  time  of  the  flashbulb,  the  exposure 
will  depend  solely  on  the  aperture  setting.  The  aperture  ( /^number)  is  calculated  from 
the  "guide  number"  for  the  type  of  film  used,  the  formula  being: /-number  =  guide 
number  divided  by  distance  (in  metres).  To  understand  the  significance  of  the  guide 
number  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  intensity  of  illumination  decreases  in 
proportion  to  the  square  of  the  distance  from  the  light  source  and  that  the  speed 
(transmitting  power)  of  a  lens  likewise  decreases  with  the  square  of  the /-number. 
The  two  quantities  are  linked  by  the  guide  number  whose  square  is  proportional  to 
the  quantity  of  light.  For  instance,  the  intensity  of  illumination  at  a  distance  of  5  m 
is  only  a  quarter  of  that  at  2.5  m.  The  transmitting  power  of  the  lens  at//4  is  four 
times  as  high  as  that  at//8.  This  means  that  //4  at  5  m  gives  the  same  exposure  as 
//8  at  2.5  m.  Both  settings  can  be  used  with  a  flash  having  a  guide  number  of  20. 
Other  possible  settings  in  this  case  are  //2.8  at  7  m  or  //5.6  at  3.5  m. 

Ignition  used  to  be  effected  by  directly  short-circuiting  the  battery  through  the 
flashbulb  (Fig.  4a).  Nowadays  small  dry  batteries,  usually  of  22.5  volts,  are  used  which 
charge  a  condenser  when  the  flashbulb  is  inserted  (Fig.  4b) ;  because  of  the  high  resist- 
ance in  the  charging  circuit,  this  current  remains  so  feeble  that  it  does  not  ignite  the 
bulb.  When  the  shutter  is  released,  the  contact  in  the  camera  connects  the  condenser 
directly  to  the  bulb,  and  the  sudden  discharge  causes  ignition  of  the  latter. 

208 


lass  bulb 


millions  of  lumens 


ndicator  bead 


long  flash 

A 


10  20  30  40  50  60         70 

milliseconds 

Fig.  2     LIGHT-TIME  CURVES  OF  FLASHBULBS 


base  of  bulb 


g.   1      FLASHBULB 


VV 


synchronising 
contact 


battery 

4,5  V 


flashbulb 

4k 


t 
light  flux 


shutter 
opens 


ig.  4a     CIRCUIT  DIAGRAM  FOR 

IGNITION  OF  FLASHBULBS 
DIRECT  FROM  THE  BATTERY 


10  ms 


electronic  flash  a)  X  contact 


A 


'  lashbu 


shutter  speed 


b)  M  contact 


shutter  speed  1/125' 


Fig.  3     FLASH   SYNCRONISATION   WITH 
DIAPHRAGM  SHUTTER 


r~ 


•i 1' 

resistance 
2000-3000  a 


battery 

22,5  V  • 


synchronising' 
contact 


I 


L 


^=J 


ignition  current 

^11 


charging  current  condenser 

Fig.  4b     CIRCUIT  DIAGRAM  FOR  IGNITION  OF 
FLASHBULBS  THROUGH   A  CONDENSER 


209 


ELECTRONIC   FLASH 


The  "electronic  flash"  used  in  modern  flashlight  photography  produces  a  high- 
intensity  source  of  light  of  very  short  duration  which  has  much  in  common  with  a 
flash  of  lighting.  In  a  thunderstorm,  lightning  is  caused  when  a  cloud  becomes 
electrically  charged,  for  example,  in  relation  to  the  earth ;  the  cloud  and  the  earth 
can  be  conceived  as  the  plates  of  a  giant  condenser.  If  the  voltage  becomes  too 
high,  a  flash-over  occurs :  the  gas  of  the  atmosphere  becomes  temporarily  conductive 
to  electricity,  and  a  tremendous  surge  of  current  occurs  which  lasts  a  very  short  time. 
In  the  electronic  flash  this  effect  is  simulated  by  discharging  a  condenser  through  a 
gaseous  atmosphere.  The  apparatus  must  therefore  generate  the  requisite  high 
voltage  and  enable  the  flash  to  be  produced  at  the  desired  instant  (Fig.  1).  Older  types 
of  apparatus  operated  at  some  thousands  of  volts,  but  the  more  recent  ones  usually 
operate  at  500  volts.  Portable  sources  of  electric  current  (dry  batteries  or  accumula- 
tors), however,  supply  direct  current  at  very  low  voltages.  Only  an  alternating  current 
can  be  stepped  up  to  a  higher  voltage  by  means  of  a  transformer.  The  direct  must 
therefore  first  be  converted  into  an  alternating  current.  This  is  done  either  by  means 
of  a  so-called  "chopper"  which  changes  the  polarity  (i.e.,  the  direction  of  flow)  of  the 
current  about  200  times  per  second  by  mechanical  action  or  by  means  of  a  transistor 
circuit  which  achieves  a  similar  effect  (in  modern  equipment  the  latter  method  is 
almost  exclusively  employed).  The  alternating  current  thus  obtained  is  raised  to  the 
required  high  voltage  by  means  of  a  transformer(seepagellO).A  rectifier  then  con- 
verts it  back  into  direct  current. 

This  high-voltage  direct  current  charges  a  condenser  whose  two  poles  are  con- 
nected to  the  electrodes  of  the  flash  tube.  The  flash  tube  and  ignition  device  are  in 
the  flash  holder.  Also,  there  are  modern  very  small  electronic  flash  sets  in  which  the 
generator  equipment  and  the  reflector  are  combined  into  a  single  unit.  The  flash 
tube  is  filled  with  an  inert  gas,  usually  xenon,  which  does  not  conduct  electricity. 
The  final  voltage  at  the  condenser,  and  therefore  at  the  electrodes,  is  attained  after  a 
charging  time  of  about  3  to  15  sec.  This  voltage  is  not  so  high,  however,  that  it  can 
by  itself  initiate  a  discharge  through  the  flash  tube.  When  the  camera  shutter  is 
released,  the  synchronising  contact  of  the  shutter  causes  a  small  ignition  condenser 
to  discharge  through  one  winding  of  the  ignition  coil.  As  a  result  of  this,  a  high  voltage 
(about  10,000  volts)  is  induced  at  that  instant  in  the  other  winding.  This  high  voltage 
impulse,  which  is  applied  between  the  ignition  electrode  and  the  negative  electrode 
of  the  flash  tube,  ionises  the  inert  gas  and  makes  it  conductive  to  electricity,  so  that 
the  condenser  can  discharge  itself  through  the  tube.  During  a  period  of  about 
y^oo  sec.  the  stored-up  electrical  energy  flows  through  the  flash  tube  as  a  high- 
intensity  current  (of  about  100  amps  and  more),  during  which  time  it  causes  the  gas 
to  glow  brightly. 

The  light  emitted  by  the  electronic  flash  has  approximately  the  same  spectrum 
composition  as  daylight.  For  colour  photography  the  usual  daylight  colour  film 
should  accordingly  be  used. 

For  synchronisation  with  the  shutter  of  the  camera  and  for  calculating  the  aperture 
setting  from  the  "guide  number",  see  page  208. 


210 


Fig.   1      ELECTRONIC  FLASH   (schematic) 


flash  tube 


electrodes 


ignition  electrode 


Fig.  3     FLASH  TUBES  USED  IN   MODERN   AMATEUR  EQUIPMENT 
(drawn  to  a  much  larger  scale  than  Fig.  2) 


211 


RANGEFINDER 

When  subjects  close  to  the  camera  are  photographed  with  large  apertures  (low 
f-numbers),  the  depth  of  field  (see  page  192)  is  very  small.  A  mere  rough  estimate 
of  the  distance  is  generally  too  inaccurate,  and  for  this  reason  high-class  cameras 
are  equipped  with  built-in  rangefinders.  The  principle  of  the  rangefinder  is  rather 
like  that  of  binocular  vision:  when  an  observer  looks  at  a  very  distant  object,  his  two 
eyes  look  in  parallel  directions;  if  the  object  comes  nearer,  the  eyes  turn  inwards, 
and  they  do  this  more  and  more  in  proportion  as  the  distance  to  the  object  decreases. 
The  angle  between  the  lines  of  sight  is  therefore  a  measure  for  the  distance  (Fig.  1). 

Similarly,  the  rangefinder  has  two  "eyes"  or  sight  openings:  one  of  these  is  the 
normal  viewfinder,  whose  optical  axis  is  accurately  parallel  to  that  of  the  camera 
lens;  the  other  is  located  at  the  other  end  of  the  "base"  and  produces  a  second  image 
(the  rangefinder  image).  The  rays  of  light  which  form  the  rangefinder  image  are 
reflected  by  a  mirror  to  the  viewfinder,  where  it  is  superimposed  upon  the  viewfinder 
image  by  means  of  a  semi-transparent  mirror  (Fig.  2a).  In  the  eyepiece  of  the  view- 
finder  the  photographer  thus  sees  two  images,  one  over  the  other.  This  is  known  as 
coincident  image  (Fig.  2b).  If  the  two  rays  entering  the  viewfinder  and  the  second 
"eye"'  of  the  rangefinder  are  parallel  (i.e.,  if  they  both  come  from  a  very  distant 
object),  the  two  superimposed  images  will  accurately  coincide  and  thus  appear  as 
one  image.  An  object  close  to  the  camera  will,  however,  produce  two  images  which  are 
displaced  in  relation  to  each  other.  To  bring  them  into  exact  coincidence,  the  second 
ray  will  have  to  be  deflected  through  a  certain  angle  until  it,  too,  passes  through  the 
object.  The  magnitude  of  this  angle  is  a  measure  of  the  distance  to  the  object  in 
question.  The  angular  rotation  of  the  component  which  produces  this  deflection 
can  therefore  be  coupled  to  a  distance  scale  (in  metres  or  feet)  or  directly  to  the  focus- 
ing mechanism  of  the  lens.  The  deflection  may  be  produced  by  means  of  a  swivelling 
mirror  (Fig.  2a).  Greater  precision  is  attainable  with  the  swivelling  wedge  type 
rangefinder  (Fig.  3)  because  here  the  deflecting  component  has  to  be  rotated  through 
a  substantially  larger  angle  to  produce  a  given  deflection.  In  this  device  two  cylindrical 
lenses,  one  of  which  rotates  within  the  other,  form  a  prism  of  variable  refractive  power. 
In  Fig.  3  the  base  with  the  two  fixed  mirrors  consists  of  a  glass  rod  for  greater  strength. 
In  other  forms  of  construction  the  pair  of  cylindrical  lenses  (or  sometimes  only  one 
swivelling  cylindrical  lens)  is  mounted  between  the  mirrors.  In  the  rotating  wedge 
rangefinder  (Fig.  4)  two  circular  wedges  can  be  rotated  180°  in  relation  to  each  other 
in  both  directions.  In  one  extreme  position  they  together  form  a  double  wedge; 
in  the  intermediate  position  they  form  a  piano  parallel  plate ;  and  in  the  other  extreme 
position  they  form  a  double  wedge  which  deflects  light  in  the  opposite  direction. 
Because  of  its  complicated  mechanism,  this  type  has  now  largely  been  superseded  by 
the  simpler  lever-action  rangefinders.  For  the  same  reason  the  so-called  split-image 
rangefinder  (Fig.  5a)  has  now  largely  disappeared,  although  it  is  a  very  convenient 
one  to  use  because  of  the  clear  image  it  produces  in  the  rangefinder.  In  this  type  the 
image  is  split  into  a  top  and  bottom  half  which  are  displaced  in  relation  to  each  other 
and  which  have  to  be  brought  into  coincidence  with  each  other  (Fig.  5b). 

Nearly  all  mirror-reflex  cameras  are  now  equipped  with  a  focusing  aid  which, 
because  of  its  similar  action,  is  often  referred  to  as  a  "split-image  rangefinder".  This 
device  comprises  two  clear  glass  wedges  which  are  so  cemented  in  position  that  their 
point  of  intersection  is  accurately  located  in  the  plane  of  the  focusing  screen.  If  the 
image  has  been  sharply  focused  on  the  screen,  the  wedges  have  practically  no  effect ; 
the  farther  the  image  is  away  from  this  plane,  the  more  the  two  parts  of  the  image  are 
displaced  in  relation  to  each  other  as  a  result  of  the  deflecting  action  of  the  wedges. 


212 


direction  of  viewing 

a  distant  (a) 

and  a  near  (b)  object 


Fig.   1 


mirror 


direct  1  beam 


deflected  beam 


2a     RANGEFINDER  WITH 
SWIVELLING  MIRROR 


^ 


i  semi- 
transparent 
mirror 


^ 


Fig.  2  b 


coincident  image 


indrical  lenses 


Fig.  4     RANGEFINDER  WITH   ROTATING  WEDGE 


o 


rotatable  wedges 


\ 


mirror  for  mirror  for 

i  lower  half  upper  half 


j.  5a     SPLIT-IMAGE  RANGEFINDER 


A 


Fig.   5  b  split  image 


213 


\ 


CINE   CAMERA   (MOTION   PICTURE   CAMERA) 

There  is  no  difference  in  principle  between  an  ordinary  "still"  camera  and  a  ci 
camera,  except  that  the  latter  takes  a  large  number  of  pictures  in  rapid  succession, 
so  that  when  these  are  appropriately  projected  on  the  screen,  an  impression  of ' 
continuous  motion  is  produced. 

Fig.  1  shows  how  the  film  is  run  through  the  camera.  The  feed  spool  carries  the 
unexposed  film,  which  is  unwound  from  this  spool  by  the  sprocket  wheel  and 
moved  along  to  the  film  gate.  The  sprocket  is  driven  by  a  small  electric  motor  or  a 
spring  motor.  Guide  plates  keep  the  film  engaged  with  the  sprocket.  A  pressure 
plate  keeps  the  film  perfectly  flat  as  it  moves  past  the  film  gate.  After  exposure,  the 
film  is  advanced  a  distance  corresponding  to  one  image  by  the  feeding  claw.  As  this 
movement  occurs  intermittently,  whereas  the  sprocket  rotates  continuously,  the 
film  must  comprise  relieving  loops.  While  the  feeding  claw  pulls  the  film  along,  the 
rotary  disc  shutter  covers  the  film  gate  and  then  exposes  it  for  a  certain  length  of  time 
(about  yj t0  5*0  sec)-  The  feeding  claw  and  the  shutter  must  therefore  be  interadjusted. 

The  feeding  claw  is  secured  at  its  pivot ;  its  lever  is  movable  (Fig.  2).  The  hook 
engages  with  the  perforation  of  the  film  and  moves  the  latter  forward  a  certain  dis- 
tance, as  the  other  end  of  the  claw  performs  an  eccentric  motion.  In  narrow-gauge 
cine  cameras  the  film  is  held  stationary  for  as  long  a  time  as  is  necessary  for  the 
exposure.  The  rotary  disc  shutter  therefore  performs  the  function  of  covering  the 
film — i.e.,  preventing  light  entering  the  camera — during  the  film  advance  movement. 
It  consists  of  a  circular  disc  (Fig.  3)  with  cut-out  sectors.  With  16  exposures  per 
second  a  sector  of  180°  corresponds  to  an  exposure  speed  of  yV  sec.  Fig.  4  shows  the 
interrelated  operations  of  covering  the  film  gate  and  the  film  advance  movement. 

The  various  running  speeds  of  the  camera  are  adjusted  by  means  of  a  small 
governor  (Fig.  5).  Small  centrifugal  weights  attached  to  a  plate  are  slidably  mounted 
on  a  shaft.  In  the  neutral  position  (Fig.  5a)  a  spring  pushes  the  plate  to  the  right.  Now 
if  the  shaft  rotates  (Fig.  5b)  the  weights  are  flung  outwards  by  centrifugal  action  and 
pull  the  plate  to  the  left  until  it  strikes  a  stop.  The  position  of  this  stop  therefore 
determines  the  speed  of  rotation  of  the  shaft,  which  will  be  higher  according  as  the 
stop  is  farther  to  the  left. 

Slow-motion  and  time-lapse  effects  are  determined  by  the  ratio  of  the  speed  of 
shooting  the  film  to  the  speed  of  projecting  it.  If  the  film  is  run  through  the  camera  at  a 
lower  speed  (i.e.,  a  lower  footage  per  second)  than  through  the  projector,  the  move- 
ments of  the  subject  which  has  been  filmed  will  be  seen  speeded  up.  Conversely, 
slow-motion  is  obtained  by  running  the  film  through  the  camera  at  a  higher  speed 
than  through  the  projector. 


214 


relieving  loop 
feed  spool 

sprocket  wheel 
pressure  plate 
feeding  claw 


perforation  of  the  film 


Fig.   1      SCHEMATIC  DIAGRAM  OF 
A  CINE  CAMERA 


eccentric  drive 
for  lever 

Fig.  2     HOW  THE  FEEDING 
CLAW  WORKS 


a) 


iiiillo 


180°  opening 


*    90    opening 


Fig.  3     ROTARY  DISC  SHUTTER 


30°  opening 


a)      exposure  begins 


b)    exposure  ends 

/<=>     — J-~  film 
rotary  disc  shutter  A-,  / 


c)     film  advance 


feeding 


Fig.  4     CO-ORDINATION  OF  SHUTTER  OPERATION  AND  FILM  ADVANCE 
a)  position  when  stationary  b)  in  operation 

centrifugal  weights  plate 


stop 


Fig.  5     SPEED  GOVERNOR 
215 


CINE   PROJECTOR 

The  cine  projector  (movie  projector)  operates  on  the  same  principle  as  the  cine 
camera  (see  page  214).  But  whereas  in  the  camera  the  light  rays  from  the  subject 
are  concentrated  on  the  film  by  the  lens,  in  the  projector  the  rays  from  a  source  of 
light  pass  through  the  film  image  and  are  projected  by  the  lens  on  to  a  screen. 

The  construction  of  a  cine  projector  is  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  1.  Each  image 
on  the  film  is  projected  on  to  the  screen  for  a  short  time,  and  the  film  then  moves 
on  so  as  to  bring  the  next  image  into  position  for  projection.  During  this  movement 
the  film  gate  of  the  projector  is  obscured.  To  ensure  that  there  is  always  sufficient 
slack  in  the  film  — because  the  feed  sprocket  rotates  at  a  constant  rate,  whereas  the 
feeding  mechanism  operates  intermittently— a  loop  of  film  must  be  formed  between 
the  sprocket  and  the  film  gate. 

The  feeding  mechanism  which  moves  the  film  along  may  be  in  the  form  of  a 
claw  (Fig.  2).  The  lower  end  of  the  claw  is  eccentrically  mounted  on  a  disc  which 
rotates  at  a  uniform  speed.  In  addition,  the  claw  is  pivoted  at  the  centre.  As  a  result, 
the  head  performs  the  motion  indicated  in  Fig.  2:  the  points  of  the  claw  engage  with 
the  perforations  in  the  film  and,  with  each  movement,  pull  it  down  a  distance 
corresponding  exactly  to  one  image.  During  the  time  when  the  image  is  being 
projected,  the  film  is  stationary  and  the  head  of  the  feeding  claw  returns  to  its 
initial  position.  A  different  type  of  feeding  mechanism  embodies  a  so-called  maltese 
cross  (Fig.  3).  This  device  is  mounted  just  above  the  lower  film  loop  and  is  driven 
by  a  constantly  rotating  disc  provided  with  an  eccentric  pin.  The  maltese  cross  in 
turn  drives  a  sprocket  whose  teeth  engage  with  the  perforations  of  the  film.  Fig.  3a 
shows  the  cross  in  the  stationary  position.  The  eccentric  pin  then  engages  with  the 
slot  in  the  cross  and  rotates  it  with  a  jerking  movement  which  is  imparted  to  the 
sprocket  (Fig.  3b). 

During  the  time  when  the  film  is  being  moved  along,  the  film  gate  must  be 
obscured.  This  is  done  by  the  rotary  disc  shutter,  whose  mode  of  functioning  is 
illustrated  in  Fig.  4.  As  a  result  of  the  intermittent  covering  and  uncovering  of  the 
film  by  this  revolving  shutter,  a  flicker  effect  is  produced  on  the  screen.  This  effect 
is  more  pronounced  according  as  the  projector  light  beam  is  obscured  less  frequently. 
To  reduce  flicker,  the  image  which  is  being  projected  is  also  obscured  for  part  of 
the  time  that  it  is  in  position  at  the  film  gate.  For  this  purpose  a  three-blade  shutter 
is  used,  especially  with  the  smaller  film  sizes. 

The  film  coming  from  the  feeding  mechanism  forms  a  loop  and  then  passes  over 
the  take-up  sprocket,  which  ensures  that,  despite  the  pull  exerted  by  the  take-up 
reel,  the  lower  film  loop  always  remains  the  same  size. 

The  path  of  the  light  rays  in  the  projector  is  shown  in  Figs.  1  and  5.  The  largest 
possible  amount  of  the  light  emitted  by  the  projector  lamp  must  be  utilised  for 
projection.  The  condenser  lens  concentrates  the  light  which  is  emitted  in  the  forward 
direction,  while  the  collecting  mirror  behind  the  lamp  reflects  the  rearward  emitted 
light.  This  concave  mirror  is  so  mounted  that  the  filament  of  the  lamp  is  located  at 
the  centre  of  curvature  of  the  mirror.  By  this  means  uniform  illumination  of  the 
film  image  is  obtained.  Projector  lenses  are  usually  of  fairly  simple  construction 
(large  focal  length,  small  angular  field).  Projectors  are  driven  by  electric  motors. 
A  fan  or  blower  for  cooling  the  lamp  and  film  guide  equipment  is  usually  mounted 
on  the  drive  shaft  of  the  motor. 


216 


rotary  disc  shutter 
film  loop 


lens 


concave  mirror 


film  spool 
feed  sprocket 


Fig.   1      SCHEMATIC  DIAGRAM  OF 

A  CINE  PROJECTOR    ,      , 

feeding  device 


head  with  claw  points 


eccentric  drive 


Fig.  2     CLAW  TYPE  FEEDING 
MECHANISM 


shutter 


pressure  plate 

take-up  sprocket 
take-up  spool 


drive  spindle  of 
feeding  mechanism 


film  stationary  |  |  film  advances 


Fig.  3     MALTESE  CROSS  FEEDING  MECHANISM 


k~  claw 
Fig.  4     OPERATION  OF  ROTARY  DISC  SHUTTER 


condenser 


concave  mirror 


Fig.   5     PATH  OF  LIGHT  RAYS   IN   PROJECTOR 


217 


WIDE   SCREEN    MOTION   PICTURES:   CINEMASCOPE 


. 


The  filming  and  projection  system  described  in  this  article  arose  from  the  fa 
that  the  "aspect  ratio"  (width-to-height  ratio  of  the  picture)  of  the  conventional 
cinema  does  not  correspond  at  all  well  to  the  normal  field  of  vision  of  the  human 
eye.  In  addition,  it  was  felt  to  be  necessary  to  improve  the  quality  of  the  sound, 
especially  with  regard  to  its  directional  effect  (stereophonic  sound). 

CinemaScope  is  the  proprietary  name  of  a  filming  and  projection  system  which, 
by  means  of  special  optical  equipment,  enables  cinematographic  pictures  of  great 
width  to  be  reproduced  on  a  wide  screen.  The  system  operates  with  single-track 
optical  sound  reproduction  or,  better,  with  multi-channel  magnetic  sound  reproduc- 
tion in  which  the  source  of  the  sound  (loudspeakers  installed  behind  the  screen) 
corresponds  to  the  visual  image.  CinemaScope  film  and  standard  film  are  both  35 
mm  wide.  When  sound  film  was  first  introduced  in  cinematography  the  frame  lines 
(the  strips  between  the  successive  frames  or  pictures  on  the  film)  had  been  sub- 
stantially widened  in  order  to  retain  the  same  aspect  ratio  of  the  picture,  which  had 
had  to  be  made  narrower  in  order  to  accommodate  the  sound  track  on  the  film. 
The  CinemaScope  picture  utilises  this  otherwise  lost  space  and  reverts  to  the  image 
height  that  was  formerly  employed  in  the  old  silent  film  days.  The  four  sound  tracks- 
of  the  CinemaScope  system  with  magnetic  sound  reproduction  are  necessary  for 
obtaining  "stereophonic"  sound  with  lifelike  qualities  and  proper  spatial  relation- 
ships. The  sound  is  recorded  on  magnetic  tape  by  three  microphones  installed  in 
different  positions,  so  that  the  sounds  picked  up  by  each  microphone  differ  in 
intensity  and  timing  (because  of  the  varying  distance  to  the  source  of  the  sound) 
from  those  picked  up  by  the  other  microphones.  When  the  film  is  subsequently  \ 
shown,  the  sound  is  correspondingly  reproduced  by  three  sets  of  loudspeakers 
installed  on  the  left  and  right  and  at  the  centre,  behind  the  screen.  The  fourth  sound 
track  is  used  for  sound  effects  which  are  not  represented  as  coming  from  the  actual , 
scene  projected  on  the  screen  and  which  are  reproduced  by  speakers  installed  in 
various  parts  of  the  auditorium.  The  camera  for  taking  CinemaScope  films  is 
equipped  with  an  optical  attachment  called  an  anamorphotic  system,  which  has 
the  function  of  squeezing  the  image  together  sideways,  i.e.,  the  image  is  distorted 
by  reducing  the  horizontal  scale  in  relation  to  the  vertical  scale.  When  the  film  is 
projected,  the  process  is  reversed:  the  projector  is  fitted  with  an  anamorphotic 
system  which  "stretches"  the  picture  so  as  to  obtain  the  correct  proportions  on  the 
screen.  Anamorphotic  systems  may  be  composed  of  lenses  (Fig.  2),  mirrors  (Fig.  3) 
or  prisms  (Fig.  4).  In  Fig.  2  the  two  cylindrical  lenses  of  the  anamorphotic  system  • 
are  mounted  in  front  of  the  projection  lens  and  produce  their  optical  effect  by  f 
expanding  ihe  p'cture  in  the  horizontal  direction  (expansion  factor  2).  An  anamor- 
photic minor  system  functions  in  much  the  same  way  as  an  anamorphotic  lens 
system,  but  involves  a  certain  vertical  displacement  of  the  beam  of  light.  Anamor- 
photic prisms  have  the  advantage  that  the  magnification  of  the  system  can  be  varied 
by  rotating  the  prisms. 

For  physiological  and  geometrical  reasons  the  CinemaScope  screen  should  be 
curved.  This  curvature  is  particularly  essential  if  the  screen  is  of  the  reflecting  type 
(cf.  page  220). 


¥S, 


218 


HHr0-965        ^py 

3  2.6      tound  effects  track 

1,6  -J  k-|' 

„-.  J      07s         I23'7      .J  I     II 

0.48 »H  \+ |0,84»y- 


centre  of  picture  direction  of 

film  movement 


la     DIMENSIONS  OF  STANDARD  Fig.   lb     DIMENSIONS  OF  CINEMASCOPE  FILM  Fig.   lc     DIMENSIONS  OF  CINEMASCOPE  FILM 

FILM  (in  mm)  WITH  FOUR  MAGNETIC  SOUND  TRACKS  WITH  OPTICAL  SOUND  TRACK 


Fig.  2     ANAMORPHOTIC   SYSTEM   WITH   LENSES 


KORPHOTIC  SYSTEM 
MIRRORS 


219 


WIDE   SCREEN    MOTION    PICTURES:   TODD  AO   AND   CINERAMA 

Another  modern  wide-screen  system  is  Todd-AO.  Like  the  Cinerama  system 
described  below,  the  object  is  to  give  the  audience  a  sense  of  personal  participation 
in  the  action  of  the  film.  The  Todd-AO  system  uses  a  film  which  is  about  twice  as 
wide  as  standard  film,  i.e.,  about  70  mm  (Figs,  la  and  lb).  Because  of  the  larger 
picture  area,  only  a  moderate  amount  of  enlargement  in  projection  is  possible,  and 
this  makes  for  better  picture  definition  on  the  screen.  The  sound  is  recorded  on  six 
magnetic  sound  tracks  by  means  of  six  microphones.  Five  tracks  correspond  to  the 
various  directions  of  the  scene,  while  the  sixth  track  is  used  for  sound  effects  (cf.  i 
page  218).  The  camera  used  for  filming  in  Todd-AO  is  of  special  design,  because  of  I 
the  wide  film  used  and  the  effect  to  be  achieved:  wide-angle  lenses  are  employed! 
(shooting  angles  of  up  to  128°;  cf.  page  180).  The  most  striking  feature  of  the  system  i 
is  the  greatly  curved  wide  screen.  The  audience's  sense  of  direct  participation  in  the : 
scenes  shown  is  very  largely  attributable  to  this  curvature  of  the  screen.  This  is- 
bound  up  with  the  physiological  and  psychological  processes  of  visual  perception. . 

Objects  projected  near,  say,  the  extreme  left-hand  edge  of  a  flat  wide  screen  will  I 
appear  considerably  compressed  in  the  lateral  direction  to  an  observer  seated  on  i 
the  extreme  right  in  the  front  part  of  the  auditorium  (Fig.  2a).  This  distortion  is 
partly  corrected  by  the  considerable  curvature  of  the  screen.  The  same  is  true  of 
the  distortions  due  to  the  projection  itself.  The  curvature  of  the  screen  also  avoids 
or  reduces  the  amount  of  accommodation  to  varying  distances  that  the  observer's 
eye  has  to  perform  when  viewing  the  picture  as  a  whole.  If  the  screen  were  made  of 
a  white,  diffusely  reflecting  material,  the  various  parts  of  a  curved  screen  would 
reflect  light  towards  one  another,  resulting  in  a  considerable  loss  of  picture  definition 
(Fig.  2b).  This  disadvantage  can  most  be  overcome  by  using  a  screen  whose  surface 
is  provided  with  a  large  number  of  vertical  ridges  (formed  of  white  plastic),  as 
shown  in  cross-section  in  Fig.  2c:  the  light  which  strikes  any  particular  point  on 
such  a  screen  is  almost  entirely  reflected  towards  the  audience. 

As  distinct  from  the  Todd-AO  system,  which  uses  only  a  single  camera  and  a 
single  projector,  the  Cinerama  system  makes  use  of  three  cameras  and  three  pro- 
jectors for  35  mm  film.  The  lenses  of  the  triple  camera  cover  a  field  of  about  146°, 
which  corresponds  approximately  to  the  field  of  vision  of  the  human  eye.  In  the 
cinema  the  three  separate  but  synchronised  films  are  projected  simultaneously  on 
to  a  semicircular  panoramic  screen  (Fig.  3).  The  sound  system  of  Cinerama  is 
similar  to  that  of  Todd-AO,  i.e.,  six  magnetic  sound  tracks  comprising  five  main 
tracks  and  one  effects  track,  except  that  the  sound  is  reproduced  by  running  a 
separate  "blind"  film,  with  sound  recording  only,  through  a  special  fourth  projector. 


220 


ig.   la     DIMENSIONS  OF  POSITIVE   FILM   FOR 
TOOD-AO 
SYSTEM 

(six  magnetic  sound  frocks) 


effects  track 


0.2032 


r 


Fig.    lb     STANDARD  FILM  COMPARED  WITH  TODD-AO 
COPY 


Fig.   2c     HORIZONTAL  SECTION 
THROUGH   TODD-AO 
SCREEN 


;g    7a     REDUCTION   OF   APPARENT   DISTORTION 
PICTURE 


o 
o 

» 1  •  •  •  1 

ooo 
o 

FIG.   3     CINERAMA   INSTALLATION 


three  synchronised  cameras 


221 


PROJECTORS:    EPISCOPE   AND   DIASCOPE 

The  episcope  is  a  projector  for  opaque  flat  pictures  (paper  prints,  pages  of  books, 
etc.).  Its  mode  of  operation  is  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  1.  The  efficiency  (light 
yield)  of  the  episcope,  i.e.,  the  ratio  of  the  brightness  of  the  image  on  the  screen  to 
the  power  output  of  the  projection  lamp,  is  relatively  poor.  This  is  due  to  the 
multiple  reflections  that  some  of  the  light  has  to  undergo  inside  the  apparatus.  The 
filament  of  the  lamp  sends  rays  out  in  all  directions.  Only  a  small  proportion  of 
these  rays  directly  impinges  upon  the  picture  to  be  projected.  The  larger  proportion 
is  directed  on  to  the  picture  by  reflectors.  From  each  individual  point  of  the  picture 
rays  are  sent  out  in  all  directions,  and  only  a  fraction  of  these  rays  passes  through 
the  lens  and  is  projected  on  to  the  screen  via  the  reversing  mirror.  A  large  proportion 
of  the  rays  is  thrown  back  on  to  the  picture  by  the  reflectors.  The  light  efficiency 
can  be  improved  by  skilful  arrangement  of  the  reflectors  and  by  the  use  of  wide-angle 
lenses  of  high  light-transmitting  power.  The  instrument  illustrated  in  Fig.  2  is  known 
as  an  "epidiascope";  it  can  alternatively  be  used  for  the  projection  of  transparent 
slides. 

The  diascope,  or  slide  projector,  is  intended  for  the  projection  of  transparencies 
(diapositives,  negatives).  Its  principal  parts  the  light  source  with  a  concave  collecting 
mirror  (Fig.  3),  the  condenser  and  the  projection  lens.  The  source  of  light  (usually 
an  incandescent  lamp  with  a  coiled  filament)  emits  light  in  all  directions.  The  light 
which  strikes  the  concave  mirror  is  reflected  and  focused  in  the  plane  of  the  filament. 
The  light  emitted  in  the  forward  direction  encounters  the  condenser,  which  in  the 
larger  projectors  comprises  two  plano-convex  lenses  (double  condenser).  It  collects 
the  rays  over  a  large  angle  and  forms  the  image  of  the  filament  at  a  point  located 
within  the  projection  lens  system.  The  condenser  ensures  uniformly  bright  illumina- 
tion of  the  entire  area  of  the  slide.  The  light  efficiency  of  a  projector  is  higher 
according  as  the  angle  of  the  beam  of  light  admitted  by  the  condenser  is  larger. 
This  angle  can,  for  instance,  be  increased  by  placing  the  condenser  closer  to  the 
lamp.  The  refractive  power  of  the  condenser  will  then  have  to  be  greater,  since  the 
distance  from  the  lamp  to  the  projection  lens  must  remain  the  same.  This  require- 
ment can  be  fulfilled  by  means  of  a  meniscus  lens  which  is  interposed  between  the 
double  condenser  and  the  lamp  (Fig.  5).  The  efficiency  is  thereby  increased;  the 
image  of  the  lamp  filament  within  the  projection  lens  system  is  larger.  However, 
because  of  the  shorter  distance  between  iamp  and  condenser,  the  amount  of  heat 
from  the  lamp  that  is  absorbed  by  the  condenser  becomes  greater.  The  condenser 
lenses  consequently  undergo  thermal  expansion  and  must  be  so  mounted  that  this 
expansion  can  freely  take  place.  Some  of  the  heat  is  transmitted  through  the 
condenser  lenses,  however.  To  protect  the  slide,  a  plate  of  special  heat-absorbing 
glass  is  installed  inside  the  condenser.  This  plate  itself  becomes  very  hot,  and  for 
this  reason  it  is  often  composed  of  a  number  of  strips  in  order  to  prevent  the  internal 
thermal  stresses  becoming  too  high  and  fracturing  the  glass.  Fig.  4  shows  a  section 
through  the  epidiascope  functioning  as  a  diascope. 


222 


reversing  mirror 


Fig.  1      EPISCOPE  {schematic) 


reflector 


projection  lamp 


concave  mirror  (reflector) 


reversing  mirror 
cooling  fan       /  t      '    ^\  lens 

reflector 


base  with  picture  to  be  projected 


Fig.  2     EPIDIASCOPE  FUNCTIONING 
AS  EPISCOPE 


reflector 


projection  lamp 


coiled  filament        transparency 


concave  mirror 


double  condenser 


image  of 
projection  lamp    double  condenser        coiled  filament 

Fig.  3     DIASCOPE  WITH  DOUBLE 
CONDENSER  (schematic) 


projection  lamp 


Fig.  4     EPIDIASCOPE  FUNCTIONING 
AS  DIASCOPE 


Fig.  5     DIASCOPE  WITH  TRIPLE 
CONDENSER  (schematic) 


transparency 


concave  mirror 


projection  lamp        triple  condenser 


lens 


223 


ELECTROPHOTOGRAPHY 

Ordinary  photography  is  based  on  the  light-sensitive  properties  of  silver  halides, 
and  more  particularly  silver  bromide  (see  page  226).  The  image  is  developed  by 
chemical  processes  performed  in  the  liquid  phase,  Electrophotography,  on  theothc 
hand,  is  based  on  photo-eleetrie  and  eleetrostatie  effects,  and  the  image  is  devclopcu 
by  a  dry  process  The  light-sensitive  layer  m  this  ease  is  formed  by  the  surface  of 
photo  semiconductor  (cT.  page  120).  Such  semiconductors  have  a  very  high  dark 
resistance  (up  to  It)14  ohm),  whereas  exposure  to  light  greatly  lowers  the  resistance 
(by  ;i  faCtOl  ranging  hoin  10s  to  107).  Materials  possessing  this  property  are,  for", 
example,  selenium  (Se),  cadmium  sulphide  (( IdS),  and  zinc  oxide  (ZnO).  Thin  selenium 
coalings  applied  to  an  earthed  metal  base  have  proved  particularly  suitable  for 
electrophotography.  Sensitisation  is  achieved  by  spraying  positively  charged  ions 
from  a  corona  discharge  on  to  the  surface.  To  this  end,  a  network  of  thin  paralle 
Wires  is  suspended  a  short  distance  horn  the  surface.  The  wires  are  given  a  potentia 
of  about  |  8000  VOltS  (Fis.  la).  Asa  result  of  this,  the  surface  of  the  coaling  is  charged 
to  about  l  600  volts  in  relation  to  its  back,  where  a  corresponding  negative  inductive 
charge  is  produced  (I  ig  lb)  On  exposure  to  light,  a  discharge  occurs  in  those  parts 
Oi  the  coating  wheie  the  light  impinges  and  thus  lowers  the  resistance,  so  that  an 
equalisation  of  electric  charge  between  front  and  back  of  the  coating  occurs.  In 
I  \i  n  is  assumed  that  light  impinges  on  the  left-hand  and  right-hand  side  of  the 
semiconductor,  but  that  the  centre  remains  unexposed  to  light.  The  "image"  is 
formed  latently  as  a  pattern  of  electric  charges  of  varying  magnitude.  It  is  "developed" 
by  means  of  a  very  fine-grained  electrically  charged  powder  (e.g.,  coloured  plastic), 
Which  is  called  the  loner  Hie  movement  of  these  powder  particles  (approx.  u\(){)  mm 
diameter)  is  represented  in  Fig,  2a,  Depending  on  the  electric  charge  of  the  toner 
particles,  n  is  possible  to  bring  out  and  make  visible  a  positive  or  a  negative  portion 
of  the  invisible  pattern  of  charges.  By  electrical  means  this  pattern  can  be  transferred 
lo  insulating  surfaces  (e.g.,  paper)  as  often  as  may  be  desired  and  can  be  developed 
there.  Fixation  is  effected  by  heating,  whereby  the  particles  of  plastic  are  melted, 
so  that  they  no  longer  need  the  electrostatic  forces  in  order  to  remain  adhering  to 
the  sin  face  of  the  paper  The  electrical  conductivity  is  produced  by  means  of  photo- 
ionisation  due  to  a  photo-electric  effect  (Fig.  2b):  a  light  quantum  (cf.  page  120) 
dislodges  an  election  from  an  atom  and  thereby  causes  the  formation  of  a  pair  of 
electrically  charged  particles.  The  negative  electron  neutralises  a  positive  elementary 
charge  at  the  surface;  the  positively  charged  atomic  nucleus  travels  to  the  back  and 
neutralises  a  negative  charge  there.  The  formation  of  a  visible  image  respectively  in 
die  negative  positive  process  and  in  the  positive-positive  process  is  illustrated  dia- 
grammaticalfy  in  Fig.  3a  and  Fig.  3b. 


224 


Fig.   la 


Fig.   lb 


+ 


T    t    t 


light 


"    ♦    T 


toner 


=ig.  2o  Nm  ^©^  particle, 


Fig.  2b 


light  quantum 
(photon) 


+  +-3*ffl 


Fig.  3a 


Fig.  3b 


T  T 


K\T//5 


I  =  pattern  of  electric  charges     II  =  toner  image 


225 


BLACK-AND-WHITE    FILM 

Black-and-white  film  is  a  highly  light-sensitive  photographic  material  which  is 
sold  commercially  in  the  form  of  roll  films,  plates  or  photographic  papers.  It  is  used 
for  black-and-white  photography. 

The  film  usually  consists  of  a  very  thin  base  made  of  cellulose  acetate,  nitrocellulose 
(cellulose  nitrate)  or  metal.  The  light-sensitive  emulsion  is  applied  to  a  thin  dark- 
coloured  intermediate  layer  (anti-halo  layer).  The  emulsion  is  in  the  form  of  a  very 
thin  coating  consisting  of  40%  silver  bromide  crystals,  50%  gelatine  (as  a  binder) 
and  10%  water.  In  complete  darkness  the  silver  bromide  is  emulsified  in  gelatine 
solution  and,  together  with  further  additives,  is  applied  by  machine  to  the  film  or 
plate.  The  size  of  the  tiny  silver  bromide  crystals  determines  the  light-sensitivity 
("speed")  and  the  resolving  power  of  the  emulsion  coating.  A  coarse  particle  is 
highly  light-sensitive;  on  the  other  hand,  its  optical  resolving  power  is  low.  Pictures 
taken  with  coarse-grained  film  cannot  be  greatly  enlarged,  as  the  enlargement  ob- 
tained would  be  too  "grainy".  The  silver  bromide  emulsion  is  not  equally  sensitive 
to  all  colours  of  light.  Yellow-green,  yellow,  orange  and  red  colour  shades  could  not 
be  photographed  on  such  film.  For  this  reason  the  coating  is  chemically  sensitised 
by  the  addition  of  minute  quantities  of  gold,  mercury  and  other  heavy  metal  ions 
to  the  silver  bromide  and  by  feeble  reaction  with  sulphide  ions.  Also,  the  coating  is 
physically  sensitised  by  the  addition  of  pigmental  sensitisers  and  thus  made  sensitive 
to  a  wider  range  of  hues.  Orthochromatic  film  is  sensitive  to  the  blue-green-yellow 
range  of  light,  orthopanchromatic  film  is  sensitive  to  these  colours  and  additionally 
extends  the  range  to  orange,  while  panchromatic  film  is  sensitive  to  the  whole  range 
of  visible  light  including  red.  There  are,  furthermore,  special  kinds  of  photographic 
film  with  widely  varying  sensitivity  properties  for  scientific  research  purposes. 

The  photographic  image  is  formed  by  the  light  rays  which  come  from  the  subject 
(i.e.,  the  object  being  photographed)  and  are  focused  on  the  light-sensitive  coating 
of  the  film  by  the  lens  system  of  the  camera.  Each  ray  of  light  that  strikes  the  film  en- 
counters silver  bromide  crystals,  which  are  thereby  activated.  The  exposed  film  is 
then  developed  in  a  development  bath,  which  is  a  solution  of  a  chemical  reducing 
agent  (developer).  The  latter  reduces  the  activated  silver  bromide  particles  to  black 
metallic  silver.  Silver  bromide  which  has  not  been  activated  by  exposure  to  light  is  not 
reduced  by  the  developer  and  can  be  dissolved  out  of  the  emulsion  coating  by  im- 
mersion of  the  developed  film  in  a  fixing  bath,  which  contains  a  solvent  (usually 
solium  hyposulphite  or  "hypo")  that  dissolves  unexposed  silver  bromide. 

After  the  developer  and  fixing  solutions  have  been  washed  out  of  the  film  and  the 
latter  has  dried,  the  result  obtained  is  the  negative.  (What  has  been  described  here 
is  the  simplest  procedure;  for  special  purposes  the  negative  can  be  subjected  to 
various  intermediate  chemical  and  heat  treatments,  etc.)  On  a  negative  the  shadows 
appear  as  "white"  (transparent)  areas,  while  the  highlights  appear  black.  If  the  nega- 
tive is  placed  in  contact  with  photographic  paper  (positive  paper)  and  exposed  to 
light,  then  the  areas  of  this  paper  under  the  (dark)  highlights  in  the  negative  will 
receive  little  light,  while  the  areas  under  the  (white)  shadows  in  the  negative  will  be 
strongly  exposed.  On  developing  this  photographic  paper,  a  "print"  is  obtained  in 
which  the  exposed  areas  come  out  dark,  while  the  unexposed  areas  remain  white, 
and  of  course  those  areas  which  are  somewhere  between  deep  shadow  and  bright 
highlight  come  out  in  various  intermediate  shades  of  grey.  The  dark  and  light  areas 
of  the  negative  are  thus  reversed  in  the  printing  process. 


226 


light-sensitive  coating 


tight  strikes 

light-sensitive 

coating 


is  activated. 


silver  bromide  crystal 
with  sensitisers 


developer  reduces  /crystal  to  silver 
ing  bath  dissolves  unexposed  silver  bromide 


intermediate  layei 
(anti-halo  layer) 
prevents 
reflections,  etc. 


film  base 


developing  bath: 
exposed  particles 
become  black 


washing 


in 


rirK4 


exposed  particle 
remains  as 
\  /  black  deposit 


negative 


exposed  area 
turned  black 
by  developer 


black  silver  particles:  coarse  grain  (a),  fine  grain  (b) 


positive 


227 


NOISE,   SOUND    INTENSITY 

By  noise  is  understood  sound  consisting  of  a  mixture  of  airborne  vibrations 
which  is  completely  irregular  with  regard  to  sound  intensity,  frequency  and  phase. 
Noise  is  usually  regarded  as  a  nuisance  and  may,  if  the  sound  intensities  involved 
are  very  high,  cause  damage  to  the  organs  of  hearing.  Such  objectionable  noise  is, 
for  example,  caused  when  a  piece  of  sheet  metal  is  struck  with  a  hammer  (Fig.  la). 
When  the  sound  intensity  is  plotted  as  a  function  of  time,  the  curve  obtained  presents 
a  very  irregular  shape  with  jagged  peaks  and  valleys  (Fig.  lb).  To  provide  protection 
against  noise  is  an  important  function  of  modern  structural  engineering.  For  example, 
in  offices  in  which  the  rattle  of  typewriters  would  produce  unbearable  conditions  if 
it  were  reflected  back  from  the  walls,  the  ceilings  and,  if  need  be,  the  walls  can  be 
lined  with  sound-absorbing  panels  (Fig.  2).  The  actual  sound-absorbing  material, 
e.g.,  glass  wool  or  rock  wool,  is  interposed  between  the  ceiling  (or  wall)  itself  and  an 
inner  skin  formed  of  perforated  plates  secured  at  a  certain  distance  from  the  wall 
face.  The  sound  waves  which  pass  through  the  perforations  are  absorbed  by  the  glass 
wool  or  similar  absorbing  material.  The  result  is  a  remarkable  reduction  of  noise. 
According  to  the  Weber-Fechner  law  of  hearing,  the  apparent  loudness  of  a  sound  — 
i.e.,  the  intensity  of  the  acoustic  perception — is  approximately  proportional  to  the 
logarithm  of  the  intensity  of  the  stimulus  (sound  intensity).  The  unit  of  objective 
loudness  or  sound  level  is  the  phon.  The  loudness,  in  phons,  of  a  sound  is  equal  to 
the  intensity  in  decibels  of  a  sound  of  frequency  1000  cycles/sec.  which  seems  as 
loud  to  the  ear  as  the  given  sound.  Two  sound  intensities,  P^  and  P2,  are  said  to 
differ  by  n  decibels  when  n  =  10  log10  P2/P\,  where  P2  is  the  intensity  of  the  sound 
under  consideration  and  Px  is  the  intensity  of  the  reference  sound  level. 

The  following  table  gives  typical  loudness  values,  in  phons,  for  a  number  of  sound 
sources : 

air  raid  siren  135  phons 

aircraft  at  take-off  130  phons 

pneumatic  hammer  120  phons 

hooter  1 10  phons 

engineering  shop  100  phons 

underground  railway  train  95  phons 

heavy  lorry  (truck)  90  phons 

motor  cycle  85  phons 

moped  (motor  bike)  80  phons 

office  75  phons 

road  traffic  70  phons 

transformer  60  phons 

rustling  leaves  30  phons 

soundproofed  room  10  phons 

Loudness  values  in  excess  of  130  phons  produce  a  sensation  of  acute  discomfort. 
Continuous  noise  in  excess  of  100  phons  may  cause  hearing  damage.  The  sound- 
level  scale  from  1  to  140  phons  comprises  the  intensity  ratio  of  1 :  1014.  Objective 
measurement  of  sound  intensity  can  be  carried  out  by  means  of  a  Rayleigh  disc 
(Fig.  4).  This  is  a  small  thin  disc  which  is  suspended  from  a  fine  thread  of  glass  or 
quartz  and  is  placed  at  an  angle  of  45°  to  the  direction  of  propagation  of  the  sound 
waves.  The  disc  experiences  a  torque  and  strives  to  place  itself  at  right  angles  to 
the  waves.  The  amount  of  rotation  it  undergoes  is  a  measure  of  the  intensity.  See 
also  page  242,  vol.  II. 


228 


sound  absorption 


Fig.  2 


torsion  head 


►    apparent  loudness 

(increases  arithmetically) 

Fig.  3     DIAGRAM   REPRESENTING  THE  WEBER-FECHNE! 
LAW  OF  HEARING 


torsion  thread 


Rayleigh  disc 


PH-M 

/ 

. 

Fig.  4     SOUND   INTENSITY  MEASUREMENT 


sound  waves 


229 


Acoustical  chamber  at  Bell  Laboratories 

Photo  USIS 


I  !  i 


_ 


RESONANCE,    ECHO 


By  resonance  is  understood  the  phenomenon  that  structures  capable  of  oscillation 
w  ill  oscillate  in  8)  mpath)  with  relativel)  Feeble  external  forces  which  act  periodical)! 
and  whose  oscillation  period  coincides  with  that  of  the  resonating  structure.  while 
ii  is  resonating  the  structure  stores  up  energy  Undei  certain  circumstances  thl 
amount  ol  energ)  stored  up  in  this  waj  ma)  become  so  great  that  it  brings  aboul  thl 
desti  uction  01  collapse  of  the  structure  \  simple  example  of  a  resonating  sii  ucturl 
is  .1  child's  swing  d  ig  la)  ii  is  .1  pendulum  which  is  given  a  push  or  .1  thrust  in  thl 
w\  inging  direction  each  time  it  reaches  us  maximum  deflection,  its  energy  build  ua 
1  e  its  resonance,  is  directl)  e\  idem  from  the  increasing  amplitude  of  the  deflection 
of  the  swing  Another  example  is  a  liquid  in  a  U  shaped  tube  (Fig,  lb).  The  liquid  can 
Ik-  si-i  in  motion  In  blow  inu  into  one  end  ol  the  tube,  and  b)  blowing  it  pei  iodicallj 
.it  the  appropriate  instant,  the  amplitude  of  its  oscillations  is  progressive!)  increaseJ 
rhe  oscillations  do  not,  however,  go  on  increasing  indefinitely,  but  are  limited  bi 
energ)  losses  in  this  case  more  particular!)  b)  losses  due  to  friction  of  the  liquil 
on  the  wall  ol  the  tube,  Resonance  ol  .1  magneticall)  polarised  steel  spring  can  bl 
induced  by  the  fluctuating  magnetic  field  ol  an  electromagnet  energised  b)  an  alteJ 
nating  current  (Fig  la)  this  resonance  effect  is.  foi  example,  utilised  in  frequenci 
meters  rhe  conception  ol  resonance  had  its  origin  in  the  science  of  acoustics.  FiJ 
'i>  illustrates  an  acoustic  resonator,  .1  device  known  .is  Kundt's  tube,  which  is  use! 
toi  measuring  the  wavelength  ol  sound  waves  Projecting  into  the  glass  tube  is  on! 
end  ol  .1  metal  rod  which  is  held  gripped  in  the  middle  Longitudinal  vibration! 
are  set  up  in  1  ins  rod  b)  rubbing  it  with  .1  cloth  sprinkled  with  powdered  rosin] 

I  he  end  ol  the  rod  in  the  tube  is  pro\ ided  w ith  .1  disc  which  in  turn  transmits  the 
\  ibrations  to  the  aii  in  the  tube  1  he  effective  length  >>i  the  tube  can  be  vai  ied  bj 
means  ol  an  adjustable  disc  at  the  othei  end  rhe  vibrations  (sound  waves)  are  rej 
fleeted  in  tins  disc,  and  on  suitably  adjusting  its  position,  a  stationar)  wave  will  bl 
produced  in  the  tube,  and  resonance  occurs  I  ins  happens  when  the  distance  between 
the  two  discs  is  eo.ii.il  to  an  odd  multiple  ofone-quartei  of  the  wavelength  of  the  sound 
w.i\es  set  up  in  the  luiv  (see  .ilso  page  !  K)),  and  vibration  mules  and  antinodes  art 
formed  these  can  be  indicated  b)  introducing  .1  small  quantit)  ol  some  suitablj 
light  powdei  (e.g.,  lycopodium  powder)  into  the  tube   rhe  powder  congregates  m 

a  heap  at  eaeh  node    I  he  mules  aie  thus  made  "\  isible".  aiul  the  distance  helween 

them  cm  iu-  measured  1  he  distance  between  two  successive  nodes  is  equal  to  half 
the  wavelength  ol  the  sound  waves  set  up  in  the  tube  Resonance  effects  are  alsd 
observed  in  connection  with  electromagnetic  phenomena  rhe  most  well  known  and 
important  example  is  the  excitation  ol  an  electromagnetic  oscillator)  circuit! 
comprising  .1  sell  inductance  /  and  capacit)  C,  in  an  alternating  voltage  ii  ig    Ii 

In   the  circuit    the  energ)    oseillates   helween   Us  eleeliieal   stale   in   the  condenser 

ii  ii'    la)  and  us  magnetic  state  in  the  magnetic  field  of  self-induction  ii  is   lbs 

II  the  natural  period  ol  vibration  (and  therefore  the  frequency)  of  the  oscillator) 
circuit  corresponds  to  that  oi  the  alternating  voltage,  resonance  will  occut  1  he 
circuit  will  in  that  ease  absorb  the  maximum  amount  ofenerg)  from  the  source  ol 
energ)  that  produces  the  excitation  Radio  transmitters  and  receivers  are  tuned  with 
the  aid  of  tins  resonance  effect  (cl  p  86 and  vol  II, p  260)  To  prevent  the  energy 
attaining  disastrous!)  high  values,  resistances  are  included  in  the  circuit .  these  cause 
energ)  losses  in  the  form  of  heat 

\nolhei    phenomenon  that  acoustic  and  electric  \  ibrations  ha\e  in  common  is 

echo,  i.e.,  the  reflection  or  sound  waves  01  electromagnetic  waves  from  obstacles 
the)  encountei  (Fig  J)  See  also  page  1 16 


!    ! 


Fig.   la 


Fig.   lb 


initial  position 
(at  rest) 


,.  2a 


/  magnetically 
I     polarised 
i  spring 


S 

electromagnet  fed 

with  alternating  current 

self-inductance  L 


nodes 
tuning  disc 


Fig.  2b     ACOUSTIC  RESONATOR  (KUNDT'S  TUBE) 


energy  in 
magnetic  field 
N     of  coil 


i\   capacity  C 


energy  in  electric  ^      ~ 
field  of  condenser 


Fig.  3     EXCITATION  OF  OSCILLATORY  CIRCUIT 


b) 


y^~y^c  C  Y// 


Fig.  4     ECHO   IS  REFLECTION   OF  SOUND  WAVES  FROM  AN  OBSTACLE 

233 


DOPPLER   EFFECT 

When  a  vibrating  source  of  waves  is  approaching  an  observer,  the  frequen 
observed  is  higher  than  the  frequency  emitted  by  the  source.  When  the  source 
receding,  the  observed  frequency  is  lower  than  that  emitted.  This  is  known  as  t 
Doppler  effect,  or  Doppler's  principle,  and  is  named  after  an  Austrian  physio 
who  lived  in  the  first  half  of  the  19th  century.  Figs.  1  and  2  will  help  to  explain  th 
phenomenon.  When  a  whistling  locomotive  (or  any  other  sound  source)  approach 
a  stationary  observer  (Fig.  1),  more  density  concentrations  reach  his  ear  than  wht 
both  the  sound  source  and  the  observer  are  stationary.  As  the  pitch  depends  on  tl 
frequency  (number  of  vibrations  per  second),  the  sound  from  the  approachin 
locomotives  whistle  has  a  higher  pitch  than  the  sound  coming  from  the  same  whisti 
when  the  locomotive  is  stationary  in  relation  to  the  observer.  Similarly,  when  tl 
locomotive  is  receding,  its  whistle  sounds  with  a  lower  note.  At  the  instant  when  l\ 
locomotive  passes  the  observer,  the  note  of  the  whistle  is  heard  to  change  to 
lower  pitch.  The  same  effect  is  observed  when  we  are  passed  by  a  fast-moving  hootin 
car  in  the  street,  or  when  the  observer  is  moving  fast  in  relation  to  a  stationar 
sound  source  (e.g..  a  motor  cyclist  approaching  a  siren,  as  in  Fig.  2). 

The  Doppler  effect  is  widely  used  in  astronomy  for  measuring  the  velocity  \ 
which  distant  stars  or  nebulae  are  approaching  or  receding.  These  motions  produc 
a  shift  in  the  position  of  lines  in  their  spectra  (see  page  156).  A  particular  spectrur 
line  corresponds  to  a  certain  definite  light  wavelength.  If  the  star  emitting  the  ligr 
is  moving  away  from  us.  its  light  rays  have  a  longer  wavelength  (lower  frequenc) 
by  virtue  of  the  Doppler  principle,  and  this  is  manifested  in  a  general  shift  of  th 
spectrum  lines  towards  the  red  end  of  the  spectrum.  This  is  known  as  the  "red  shift' 
Similarly,  in  the  spectrum  of  a  star  moving  towards  us,  the  characteristic  lines  wouk 
show  a  "blue  shift",  i.e..  they  would  be  displaced  towards  the  blue  end  of  the  spectrum 
corresponding  to  shorter  wavelengths  and  higher  frequencies.  These  phenomena  art 
indicated  in  Fig.  3.  A  remarkable  thing  about  the  spectra  of  the  spiral  nebulae  (th» 
galaxies  of  stars  far  out  in  space  beyond  our  own  Milky  Way  system!  is  that  they  al 
display  the  red  shift  and  must  therefore — on  the  basis  of  Doppler's  principle- 
all  be  moving  away  from  us.  The  theory  of  the  "expanding  universe"  is  based  or 
this  phenomenon.  However,  this  interpretation  of  the  red  shift  is  disputed  by  some 
authorities. 


234 


stationary  observer  hears 


higher  note  (higher  frequency) 
moving  observer  hears 


j i_j iy.j-i 


/  4=~ 
\  n  n 

Jinr 


\ 


•- — A 


Fig.   1 


lower  note  (lower  frequency) 
moving  observer  hears 


*c^y. 


higher  note  (higher  frequency) 


stationary  source  of  sound 


Fig.  2 


lower  note  (lower  frequency) 


terrestrial  observer 


red 


red 


blue 


""■# 


red 


blue 


in  the  spectrum  blue  corresponds  to  the  higher 
and  red  to  the  lower  frequency 


Fig.  3      RED  SHIFT  INTERPRETED  AS  DOPPLER  EFFECT 


235 


ULTRASONICS 

The  term  ultrasonics  (or  supersonics)  refers  to  sound  vibrations — variations  of 
density  in  elastic  media  (e.g.,  air) — whose  frequencies  are  beyond  the  auditory  limit, 
i.e.,  above  approx.  20,000  cycles/sec.  The  highest  ultrasonic  frequencies  hitherto 
attained  are  of  the  order  of  10  million  cycles/sec.  Such  high-frequency  elastic  vibra- 
tions are  produced  in  various  ways,  based  on  different  physical  principles.  An  obvious 
method,  in  the  first  place,  is  to  extend  the  old  acoustic  principle  of  sound  generation 
by  means  of  pipes  to  the  ultrasonic  range.  This  can  be  done  by  means  of  the  Galton 
pipe  (Fig.  1).  This  is  a  pipe  (cf.  page  240)  in  which  the  position  of  the  gap  and  lip 
can  be  varied  by  micrometer  adjustment.  It  is  blown  by  compressed  air  and  enables 
ultra-sound  with  frequencies  up  to  30,000  cycles/sec.  to  be  produced.  Higher  fre- 
quencies can  be  attained  by  making  use  of  other  phenomena,  namely,  magneto- 
striction and  the  piezoelectric  effect  (cf.  page  104).  Magnetostriction  is  the  change 
in  the  dimensions  of  a  ferromagnetic  material  when  it  is  placed  in  a  magnetic  field. 
If  the  latter  is  produced  by  an  alternating  current,  the  material  will  undergo  vibrations. 
Fig.  2  is  a  diagrammatic  representation  of  a  magnetostriction  ultrasonic  generator. 
It  consists  of  0.1-0.3  mm  (0.004-0.012  in.)  thick  nickel  plates,  insulated  from  one 
another,  whereby  the  eddy  current  losses  are  reduced.  The  general  construction  is 
rather  like  that  of  a  transformer  (page  110).  The  arrangement  of  the  windings,  as 
indicated  in  the  diagram,  causes  the  magnetic  field  to  form  a  closed  circuit  in  the 
stack  of  plates.  Utilising  this  principle,  ultrasonic  waves  with  frequencies  of  up  to 
200,000  cycles/sec.  can  be  produced.  The  sound  is  radiated — e.g.,  in  air  or  water — 
in  two  directions  (upward  and  downward  in  Fig.  2).  If  radiation  is  required  in  one 
direction  only,  one  face  must  be  provided  with  a  foam  rubber  cushion,  which  acts 
as  a  screen  impervious  to  sound. 

Even  higher  frequencies  can  be  attained  by  means  of  the  piezoelectric  effect. 
A  circular  quartz  plate — cut  from  a  hexagonal  quartz  crystal  in  the  manner  shown  in 
Fig.  3  —  is  so  gripped  at  its  edge  (Fig.  4)  that  thin  metal  foils  on  the  two  circular 
faces  of  the  plate  impart  a  high-frequency  charge  to  it  and  that  it  is  nevertheless  able 
to  vibrate  freely.  The  high-frequency  thickness  vibrations  caused  by  the  piezoelectric 
effect  are  transmitted  to  the  air  in  a  sound  box  and  thence  via  a  diaphragm  to  an 
adjacent  medium  (e.g.,  water). 

Ultrasonic  vibrations  are  used  in  many  technical  applications,  including  non- 
destructive testing  of  materials,  degasification  of  liquids,  echo-sounding,  and  also 
in  therapeutic  medicine.  Certain  nocturnal  animals,  such  as  bats,  make  use  of 
ultrasonic  vibrations  to  guide  their  movements  in  the  dark  on  the  radar  principle 
(cf.  page  136). 


236 


Fig.   1      GALTON  PIPE 

compressed  air  inlet 


Fig.   2     MAGNETOSTRICTION   ULTRASONIC 
GENERATOR   {schematic) 


r 


nmiiiiiiii) 


micrometer  adjustment 
for  air  flow 


V 


( 


ultra-sound  waves 


g°p 


ifHiiiiiiniiimm 


nicrometer 
adjustment 
for  gap 


Mm 


i  i 


ii'iiuniiiiiiifn 


elastic  deformation 
due  to  alternating 
magnetic  field 


current  flowing 
through  winding 


Fig.  3     PLATE  CUT  FROM 
QUARTZ  CRYSTAL 


Fig.  4     PIEZOELECTRIC  SOUND  TRANSMITTER 


metal  ring 
(upper 
electrode 


quartz 


metal  ring 
and  air  box 
(lower 

electrode) 


emitting  cone 


diaphragm 


237 


t  Itrasonk  energy  is  harnessed  to  help  in  detecting  diseased  tissue  cells 

Photo  USIS 


ORGAN    PIPES 

If  a  vibrating  tuning  fork  is  held  over  a  glass  cylinder,  the  column  of  air  in  tl 
cylinder  will,  if  it  is  of  appropriate  length,  resonate  with  the  fork.  The  length  (/) 
the  air  column  can  be  adjusted  by  pouring  water  into  the  cylinder  so  as  to  make 
an  odd  multiple  (n)  of  one-quarter  of  the  wavelength  (/)  of  the  note  produced 
the  tuning  fork,  i.e.,  /  =  n  A/4,  where  n  denotes  an  odd  integer;  in  that  case  resonanc 
will  occur  (see  page  232).  This  means  that  the  column  of  air  vibrates  "in  tune"  with 
the  tuning  fork,  so  that  the  sound  emitted  by  the  fork  is  strengthened.  The  air  in  tl 
glass  cylinder  forms  what  arc  known  as  stationary  waves,  with  nodes  and  antinode 
At  the  nodes  the  air  in  the  cylinder  is  at  rest,  whereas  it  moves  to  and  fro,  i.e.,  it 
in  a  state  of  vibration,  at  the  antinodes.  Fig.  1  shows  the  arrangement  of  the  node 
and  antinodes  associated  with  the  second  harmonic  vibration  (the  second  overtone 
The  fundamental  vibration  and  the  first  harmonic  vibration  in  an  open-ended  pij 
or  cylinder  are  indicated  in  the  diagram  at  the  foot  of  this  page.  At  the  antinodes  tl 
air  periodically  increases  and  decreases  in  density,  in  time  with  the  frequency 
the  vibration. 

The  operation  of  all  wind  instruments  for  producing  sounds  is  based  on  resonance 
vibrations.  These  vibrations  can  be  generated  by  two  different  methods:  a  stream 
of  air  issuing  from  a  gap  flows  past  a  sharp-edged  lip  and  produces  a  vortex  motion 
the  air  (labial  organ  pipe.  Fig.  2a;  flute,  Fig.  3);  alternatively,  a  stream  of  air 
periodically  interrupted  by  means  of  a  vibrating  tongue  of  wood  or  metal,  known 
a  reed  (reed  pipe,  Fig.  2b).  In  the  organ  pipe  the  air  first  enters  a  chamber  in  whicr 
the  air  is  stored  up;  it  then  flows  through  a  gap  and  impinges  on  a  lip  which  cause 
vortexes  to  form.  These  generate  resonance  vibrations  in  the  air  column  in  the  pipe 
whose  length  (/)  is  a  multiple  of  half  the  wavelength,  i.e.,  /  =  n  /./2,  where  n  is  an  integer 
In  Fig.  2  the  conditions  corresponding  to  the  second  harmonic,  or  overtone,  ar 
represented.  The  flute  (Fig.  3)  functions  on  the  same  principle  as  the  organ  pip 
When  all  the  holes  are  closed,  the  flute  gives  its  fundamental  note,  i.e.,  the  note  wit! 
the  lowest  frequency  and  associated  with  the  greatest  length  of  the  vibrating  columr 
of  air.  When  one  of  the  holes  is  opened,  a  higher  note  is  heard  according  as  the 
vibrating  air  column  is  shorter.  In  the  reed  pipe  (Fig.  2b)  the  air  causes  a  resilier 
tongue,  called  a  reed,  to  close  an  opening  and  thus  cut  off  the  air  flow.  As  soon 
this  happens,  the  reed  springs  back,  and  the  action  is  thus  repeated  periodically 
whereby  vibrations  are  set  up  in  the  funnel-shaped  pipe  above  the  reed.  The  reec 
pipe  principle  is  employed  in  various  musical  instruments,  such  as  clarinet,  oboe, 
harmonium  and  mouth-organ. 


node 


antinode 


node 


antinode  node 


antinoc 


fundamental  vibration 


harmonic  vibration 


of  a  column  of  air  open  at  one  end 


240 


stopped  pipe         one  octave  lower 


Fig.  3b     FLUTE  (note  one  octave  higher  than  in  Fig.  3a) 


241 


SCALES  AND  WEIGHING   MACHINES 

The  force  with  which  the  earth  attracts  an  object,  i.e.,  the  gravitational  force 
exerted  upon  it,  is  called  weight.  This  force  is  proportional  to  the  mass  (the  amount 
of  matter)  in  the  object  and  to  the  gravitational  acceleration.  However,  the  accelera 
tion  of  gravity  is  not  exactly  the  same  in  all  parts  of  the  world :  its  value  is  a  little 
higher  at  the  poles  than  at  the  equator;  in  other  words,  the  same  object  at  the  pol 
of  the  earth  has  a  somewhat  greater  weight  than  it  has  at  the  equator. 

The  simplest  form  of  weighing  device  is  the  equal-armed  beam  scale  (or  balance) 
(Fig.  1).  It  consists  of  a  beam  pivotably  mounted  on  a  knife-edge  fulcrum  at  the  centre. 
Attached  to  the  centre  of  the  beam  is  a  pointer  which  points  vertically  downwards 
when  the  scale  is  in  equilibrium  (Fig.  la).  For  proper  functioning  of  the  scale  it  is 
essential  that  the  centre  of  gravity  of  the  beam  is  located  lower  than  the  pivot' 
(fulcrum).  For  this  reason  the  pointer  is  provided  with  a  vertically  slidable  weight. i 
The  beam  is  in  equilibrium  when  the  clockwise  rotating  moment  (load  on  right-arm  i 
x  length  of  right  arm)  is  equal  to  the  anti-clockwise  rotating  moment  (load  on! 
left  arm  x  length  of  left  arm);  since  the  two  arms  of  the  beam  are  equal,  the  scalei 
will  be  in  equilibrium  when  the  weight  of  the  object  to  be  weighed  is  equal  to  that 
of  the  weights  placed  in  the  other  pan.  The  sensitivity  of  the  beam  scale  is  lower  i 
according  as  the  centre  of  gravity  of  the  beam  is  located  lower  down.  From  Fig.  lb 
it  is  apparent  that,  when  the  weight  on  the  pointer  is  lowered,  the  lever  arm  of  this 
weight  in  relation  to  the  pivot  will,  for  the  same  angle  of  tilt  of  the  beam,  be 
increased  from  a  to  b.  The  beam  will  in  fact  rotate  about  the  pivot  until  b  become! 
equal  to  a,  so  that  the  deflection  of  the  pointer  decreases,  although  the  loads  on  the 
two  pans  of  the  scale  are  the  same  as  before. 

The  equal-armed  scale  requires  a  set  of  weights  at  least  as  heavy  as  the  heaviest 
load  to  be  weighed.  For  the  weighing  of  heavier  objects,  scales  having  arms  of  , . 
unequal  length  are  therefore  used.  The  weights  are  suspended  from  the  longer  armT 
and  the  object  is  suspended  from  the  shorter  arm.  For  equilibrium,  the  forces  (loads)  | 
acting  upon  the  two  arms  have  to  be  inversely  proportional  to  the  lengths  of  the  arms. 
Thus,  in  the  weighbridge  illustrated  in  Fig.  2,  the  weight  needed  to  balance  the  load 
is  only  one-tenth  of  the  latter  if  the  machine  is  so  designed  that  /  =  10  x  a  and 
a.b  =  c:d.  The  platform  weighing  machine  illustrated  in  Fig.  3  is  of  the  pendulum 
type,  i.e.,  it  is  equipped  with  a  counterbalancing  pendulum  instead  of  a  pan  for  weights. 
The  deflection  of  the  pendulum  (and  therefore  of  the  lever  attached  to  it)  provides  an 
indication  of  the  magnitude  of  the  load  placed  on  the  weighing  platform.  To  alter  the 
range  of  the  machine,  a  sliding  weight  can  be  moved  along  a  lever. 

In  the  case  of  the  letter  balance  (Fig.  4)  the  rods  interconnecting  the  various 
pivots  form  a  parallelogram  in  all  positions.  When  a  load  is  placed  on  the  platform, 
the  lever  arm  of  the  counterbalancing  weight  in  relation  to  the  pivot  increases,  so 
that  the  deflection  provides  a  measure  of  the  magnitude  (i.e.,  the  weight)  of  the  load. 

Another  type  of  scale  is  the  spring  balance  (Fig.  5).  In  this  device  the  extension  of 
the  spring  is  proportional  to  the  magnitude  of  the  load  suspended  from  it.  The  scale 
can  be  directly  graduated  in  weight  units.  The  familiar  "bathroom  scales"  are  also 
based  on  the  spring  balance  principle.  Here,  too,  the  extension  or  deflection  of  a 
spring  is  transmitted  to  a  scale  whose  markings  give  a  direct  reading  of  the  weight 
(Fig.  6). 


242 


balance  in  equilibrium 


changing  the  sensitivity 
(magnitude  of  pointer  deflection) 


Fig.   3      PENDULUM  TYPE  WEIGHING  MACHINE 


Fig.   4     LETTER   BALANCE 


Fig.   5     SPRING   BAL 


pull-rod 


Fig.   6     SPRING   BALANCE   WITH  CIRCULAR   SCALE 


243 


CLOCKS  AND  WATCHES 

Any  periodically  repeated  phenomenon  can  be  utilised  for  time  measurement, 
so  long  as  the  duration  of  the  period  remains  accurately  constant.  In  early  timepieces 
the  periodic  movement  was  performed  by  a  pendulum  (Fig.  1).  The  weight  which 
drives  the  watch  is  applied  to  the  circumference  of  the  spindle,  causing  it  to  rotate. 
This  rotation  is,  however,  arrested  by  the  anchor,  which  is  linked  to  the  pendulum  and 
which  periodically  engages  with,  and  releases,  a  toothed  wheel  called  the  escape  wheel 
(the  combination  of  escape  wheel  and  anchor  is  called  the  escapement).  Each  time 
the  pendulum  reaches  its  maximum  amplitude,  one  of  the  projections  (called  pallets) 
of  the  anchor  releases  a  tooth  of  the  escape  wheel,  allowing  this  wheel  to  rotate  a 
corresponding  amount.  Its  rotation  is  therefore  performed  in  a  series  of  jerks, 
controlled  by  the  anchor  and  pendulum,  and  this  rotation  is  transmitted  to  the 
hands  of  the  clock  through  a  train  of  gear  wheels.  Friction  would  soon  cause  the 
pendulum  to  stop  swinging  if  it  were  not  given  an  impulse  at  regular  intervals  to 
keep  it  in  motion,  just  as  a  child's  swing  has  to  be  pushed  each  time  it  reaches  it's 
full  amplitude  (Fig.  2).  In  the  pendulum  clock  an  impulse  is  imparted  to  the  pendulum 
by  the  escape  wheel  (which  is  driven  by  the  weight)  through  the  pallets.  The  frequency 
(number  of  swings  per  second)  of  the  pendulum  can  be  varied  by  sliding  the  bob  of 
the  pendulum  up  or  down  on  its  rod.  Lowering  the  bob  makes  the  pendulum 
swing  more  slowly,  and  vice  versa.  In  this  way  the  period  (time  of  oscillation)  of  the 
pendulum  can  be  adjusted  and,  the  clock  itself  thus  be  regulated.  In  watches  the 
controlling  action  of  the  pendulum  is  performed  bv  a  device  called  the  balance 
(Fig.  3).  Attached  to  the  spindle  of  the  balance  is  a  spiral  spring,  named  the  balance 
spring  or  hairspring,  which  controls  the  oscillations  of  the  balance.  Attached  to  the 
balance  is  a  pin  which  engages  with  the  lever.  With  each  oscillation  of  the  lever  the 
pallets  release  the  escape  wheel,  allowing  it  to  rotate  a  distance  corresponding  to 
one  tooth.  At  the  same  time  an  impulse  from  the  escape  wheel  (which  is  driven  by 
the  mainspring)  is  transmitted  to  the  balance  through  the  lever  and  pin  and  thereby 
keeps  the  balance  in  motion.  The  function  of  the  latter  is  thus  entirely  analogous  to 
that  of  the  pendulum  in  a  pendulum  clock.  The  type  of  escapement  illustrated  in 
Fig.  3  is  the  so-called  lever  escapement ;  it  was  invented  about  two  hundred  years 
ago,  and  is  now  widely  employed ;  there  are  several  other  types  of  escapement  for 
watches.  The  balance  performs  five  to-and-fro  movements  per  second,  i.e.,  the  second 
hand  moves  in  five  tiny  jerks  each  second.  The  escape  wheel  drives  the  minute  hand 
and  hour  hand  through  a  train  of  gear  wheels. 

The  transmission  of  the  movement  of  the  minute  wheel  and  hour  wheel  to  the 
hands  of  the  watch  is  shown  in  Fig.  4.  The  minute  wheel  performs  one  complete 
revolution  per  hour,  and  so  does  the  minute  hand,  which  is  mounted  on  the  same 
spindle.  During  the  same  length  of  time  the  hour  wheel  and  hour  hand  perform 
only  one-twelfth  of  a  revolution. 


244 


anchor 


Fig.   2     PENDULUM  MOTION   IS 
MAINTAINED  BY 

IMPULSES  DELIVERED  AT 

-JJ  REGULAR  INTERVALS 


endulum  bob 


escape  wheel 


Fig.  3     DRIVE  MECHANISM  OF  A  WATCH 


minute  wheel 
(10  teeth) 


pinion  (6  teeth) 


Fig.  4     TRANSMISSION  OF  MOTION   FROM  THE  MINUTE  AND   HOUR 
WHEELS  TO  THE  HANDS 


245 


QUARTZ  CLOCK 

In  every  method  of  measuring  time  a  periodically  recurring  process  is  used  as  the 
basis  of  the  measurement.  In  clocks  and  watches  the  periodic  recurrence  is  provided 
by  the  swinging  pendulum  or  the  oscillating  balance  (see  page  245). 

Essentially,  any  periodic  process  can  be  used  for  controlling  a  timepiece.  In  the 
device  called  the  "quartz  clock"  these  consist  of  the  "thickness  vibrations"  that 
quartz  (and  certain  other  crystals)  perform  under  particular  conditions.  The  principle 
of  such  vibrations  can  best  be  illustrated  by  a  very  simple  example:  when  a  jelly 
pudding  is  struck  with  a  spoon  (Fig.  1),  it  begins  to  wobble.  These  movements  are  a 
kind  of  thickness  vibrations.  If  the  jelly  is  struck  at  regular  intervals  corresponding 
to  its  vibration  frequency,  the  amplitude  of  the  vibrations  will  increase  to  such  an 
extent  that  the  pudding  may  actually  break  up.  A  quartz  crystal  cut  in  a  certain 
way  exhibits  a  similar  effect.  In  this  case,  however,  the  excitation  of  the  crystal  is  not 
done  by  mechanical  impulses  but  by  periodic  electric  charging  (Fig.  2).  For  this 
purpose  a  phenomenon  known  as  the  piezoelectric  effect  is  utilised:  when  the 
crystal  is  subjected  to  alternate  compressive  and  tensile  strains,  opposite  electric 
charges  are  produced  on  different  faces ;  conversely,  when  electric  charges  are  applied 
to  these  faces  of  the  crystal,  the  latter  undergoes  expansion  and  contraction.  By  this 
means  the  crystal  can  be  set  vibrating.  The  frequency  of  these  thickness  vibrations 
depends  solely  on  the  dimensions  of  the  crystal  and  can  be  given  any  desired  value 
by  appropriately  choosing  these  dimensions.  For  a  given  set  of  conditions  the 
frequency  is  extremely  constant.  A  quartz  crystal  can  thus  be  used  as  a  highly 
accurate  regulator  for  an  electric  oscillatory  circuit  (Fig.  3). 

The  quartz  clock  comprises  a  tube  (or  valve)  transmitter  (Fig.  4),  or  a  transistorised 
transmitter  (cf.  page  88),  whose  oscillatory  circuit  is  controlled  by  a  quartz  crystal. 
At  the  output  end  (A)  an  alternating  voltage  with  a  frequency  possessing  a  high  degree 
of  constancy  is  obtained.  This  output  can  be  fed  through  frequency  reducing  circuits, 
or  be  supplied  to  a  high-frequency  motor,  and  thus  be  used  to  drive  a  normal  clock. 
The  time-keeping  accuracy  is  very  high  (to  within  one  ten-thousandth  of  a  second 
over  a  period  of  months).  Quartz  clocks  have  acquired  importance  as  master  clocks 
for  public  timekeeping  purposes  and  for  keeping  the  frequencies  of  radio  transmitters 
constant. 


246 


Fig.   1 


Thickness  vibrations  of 
an  elastic  substance 


Thickness  vibrations  of  a  quartz 
crystal  under  the  influence  of 
an  alternating  voltage 
(oscillator  quartz) 


Control  of  an  electric  oscillatory 
circuit  (L,  C)  by  means  of  a 
piezoelectric  crystal  (oscillator 
quartz)  so  as  to  ensure  constant 
frequency 


Principle  of  the  quartz  clock: 
the  frequency  of  the  electro- 
magnetic oscillations  of  a 
transmitter  is  kept  constant  by 
means  of  a  piezoelectric  crystal 


output 


247 


Miniature  quartz  clock  by  Patek  Philippe. 

Accuracy:  1/10  second  per  day 

Photo  Guy  de  Belleval 


ATOMIC   CLOCK 

The  atomic  clock  is  the  most  accurate  time  measuring  device  at  present  known. 
Whereas  the  accuracy  attainable  with  high-precision  pendulum  clocks  is  about 
10" 7  (i.e.,  an  error  of  3  seconds  per  year),  the  accuracy  of  the  quartz  clock  (see  page 
216)  is  100-1000  times  greater.  However,  quartz  clocks  have  the  great  disadvantage 
that  their  vibration  frequency  changes  in  course  of  time.  Hence  the  frequency  has  to 
be  checked  from  time  to  time  and  readjusted.  This  is  done  with  the  aid  of  an  atomic 
clock,  in  which  the  frequency  is  determined  by  molecular  vibrations  and  remains 
constant.  The  accuracy  of  the  atomic  clock  is  about  ten  times  as  great«as  that  of  the 
quartz  clock. 
The  operating  principle  of  an  ammonia  atomic  clock  is  as  follows : 
Gaseous  ammonia  (NH3)  is  introduced  through  the  nozzle  on  the  left  in  Fig.  1. 
The  nozzle  consists  of  a  number  of  very  fine  parallel  passages,  and  the  molecules 
travelling  to  the  right  enter  the  focusing  device,  which  consists  of  a  number  of  metal 
cylinders  (usually  four)  charged  to  a  high  voltage.  Among  the  NH3  molecules  are 
some  with  a  higher  and  some  with  a  lower  energy  content.  Both  kinds  of  molecule 
have  a  dipole  moment,  i.e.,  they  align  themselves  in  an  electric  field  in  such  a  manner 
that  the  high-energy  molecules  dispose  themselves  against  the  direction  of  the  field, 
whereas  the  low-energy  molecules  dispose  themselves  in  that  direction.  Because  of 
these  properties  of  the  NH3  molecule,  it  is  possible,  with  the  aid  of  the  very  inhomo- 
geneous  field  in  the  focusing  device,  to  separate  the  high-energy  molecules  from  the 
low-energy  ones,  so  that  the  former  are  thrust  towards  the  central  area  by  the  electric 
field,  while  the  latter  are  thrust  outwards  (Fig.  2).  The  high-energy  molecules  are 
collected  by  the  focusing  device  and  directed  into  a  cavity  resonator  (see  page  86). 
The  resonator  is  a  metal  box  in  which  a  stationary  high-frequency  wave  can  be 
formed  with  the  aid  of  a  feedback  system.  Activated  by  this  wave,  the  high-energy 
NH-i  molecules  acquire  vibrations  of  about  24  milliard1  cycles/sec.  and  give  off  their 
energy  to  the  wave,  which  is  thereby  amplified.  This  high-frequency  energy  has  a 
frequency  which  remains  very  accurately  constant,  thus  providing  the  basis  for  the 
time  measurement. 

1 .  A  milliard  is  equivalent  to  one  billion  in  U.S.A. 


250 


Fig.   1      PRINCIPLE  OF  ATOMIC  CLOCK 
(viewed  at  right  angles 
to  molecule  beam) 

focusing  device       I ~r I    k^-A' 


co\eV 


cavity  resonator 


passages 


nozzle 


focusing  device  i  1    t"T~~o~_/ 

i    +  -i  |  *y^ 

$  defocused  beam  (lower  energy  state) 


focused  beam 
(higher  energy  state) 


i 

i 

high-energy 
molecule 


low-energy 
molecule 


arrow  direction  =  direction  of  dipole  moment 


Fig.  2     FOCUSING  DEVICE 

{viewed  in  direction 

of  molecule  beam 


direction  of  lines 
of  force 

electric  lines  of  force 


high-energy  molecules 
are  forced  into  the 
central  area  by  the  field, 
while  low-energy 
molecules  are  driven 
outwards 


direction 
of  beam 


high-energy 

molecules 

enter 


high-frequency  stationary  wave 


1MMP 


high-frequency  energy  fed  to 
frequency  reducer 


Fig.   3     CAVITY   RESONATOR 


251 


BAROMETER 

A  barometer  is  a  device  for  measuring  atmospheric  pressure.  The  average  atmo-  I 
spheric  pressure  at  sea  level  is  1  atmosphere,  which  is  the  pressure  that  will  support  a 
column  of  mercury  760  mm  (29.92  inches)  high,  i.e.,  about  1  kg/cm2  (14.7  lb./in.2). 
This  would  correspond  to  the  pressure  exerted  by  a  column  of  air  about  5  miles  (8  km) 
high  if  its  density  were  constant  and  equal  to  that  at  sea  level.  (Actually  the  depth  of 
the  atmosphere  is  substantially  greater,  as  the  density  diminishes  with  increasing 
altitude).  This  explains  why  the  atmospheric  pressure  on  the  top  of  a  mountain  is 
lower.  If  the  mountain  is,  say,  10,000  ft.  (3000  m)  high,  the  column  of  air  pressing 
down  at  the  top  is  only  about  3  miles  (assuming  constant  density)  (Fig.  1).  Actually 
the  atmospheric  pressure  at  any  particular  altitude  is  never  constant,  but  varies  by 
relatively  small  amounts  about  the  average.  These  variations  provide  data  for  weather 
forecasts. 

When  a  rubber  suction  pad  is  pressed  against  a  smooth  wall  (Fig.  2),  it  will  remain 
adhering  to  the  wall.  By  pressing  the  pad  down  flat  against  the  wall  surface  the  air  is 
expelled  from  the  cavity  under  the  pad  and  a  vacuum  is  formed  there.  The  air  pressure 
which  originally  acted  in  that  cavity  now  no  longer  thrusts  against  the  inside  of  the 
pad.  When  the  latter  is  released,  it  will  remain  in  the  compressed  position  because    i 
the  air  pressure  acts  on  the  outside  only  and  thus  presses  the  edge  of  the  pad  down  so 
firmly  that  no  air  will  penetrate  into  the  cavity,  which  therefore  remains  void  of  air 
The  external  air  pressure  thus  keeps  the  suction  pad  firmly  pressed  against  the  wall 
Difference  of  air  pressure  is  also  utilised  when  we  drink  a  liquid  through  a  straw 
Air  is  sucked  out  of  the  straw,  and  the  atmospheric  air  pressure,  which  acts  upon  the 
surface  of  the  liquid  in  the  glass,  will  force  the  liquid  up  through  the  straw  (Fig.  3). 
If  a  long  glass  tube,  which  is  sealed  at  one  end  and  open  at  the  other,  is  filled  with 
mercury  and  is  then  stood  upright,  with  the  open  end  downwards,  in  a  dish  contain- 
ing mercury,  then  so  much  mercury  will  flow  out  of  the  tube  until  a  column  of  mercury 
not  more  than  760  mm  in  height  above  the  mercury  surface  in  the  dish  remains 
(Fig.  4).  The  air  pressure  which  acts  upon  the  surface  of  the  mercury  in  the  dish  is 
therefore  able  to  hold  up  a  760  mm  high  mercury  column.  If  the  same  experiment 
were  carried  out  with  water  instead  of  mercury,  the  tube  would  have  to  be  at  least 
33.9  ft.  (10.33  m)  high;  and  a  column  of  air  would  have  to  be  5  miles  high  to  exert  a 
pressure  of  the  same  magnitude  (Fig.  5).  A  mercury-filled  tube  over  760  mm  in  length 
as  described  above,  represents  the  simplest  form  of  the  mercury  barometer.  The  tube 
contains  no  air ;  the  space  above  the  mercury  column  is  a  vacuum. 

Modern  barometers  are  mostly  of  the  aneroid  type.  An  aneroid  barometer  (Fig  6) 
consists  of  a  hermetically  sealed  metal  box,  exhausted  of  air.  The  top  and  bottom  of 
this  box  are  thin  corrugated  plates.  In  the  interior  of  the  box  is  a  spring  which  strives 
to  force  the  top  and  bottom  plates  apart,  against  the  external  air  pressure.  If  this  air 
pressure  decreases,  the  springs  can  expand ;  if  it  increases,  the  spring  is  compressed 
The  movement  of  the  top  plate  is  transmitted  through  a  train  of  levers  to  a  pointer 
which  indicates  the  atmospheric  pressure  on  an  appropriately  graduated  scale. 

The  unit  of  atmospheric  pressure  usually  employed  in  meteorology  is  the  millibar 
It  is  approximately  equal  to  £  inch  of  mercury  (actually  a  mercury  column  of 
750  mm  corresponds  to  1000  millibars). 


252 


column  of  air 


r  Fig.   1      ATMOSPHERIC   PRESSURE 

DEPENDS  ON  ALTITUDE 


^^.air  pressure  _ 

Jl*U  11  -S- 11  ll.ll 


Fig.  2     RUBBER  SUCTION   PAD 


suction  produces  partial 
vacuum  here 


mercury  - 


air  pressure 

-M- 


f  3 

3 

a 

c 


4 


c 


mmmmm 


=ig. 

3 

•  •• 

•  •• 

•  •• 

•  •• 

•  •• 

JC 

•  •• 

CO 

-E 

•  •• 

JC 

m 

•  •• 

E 

.c 

•  •  • 

E 

•  •• 

o 

.* 

•  •• 

c 

ao 

•  •• 

E 

c 

«•  m 

3 

E 

o 

•3 

0 

0 

u 

•  *• 

•  •• 

■ 

h 

-•  _ 

0 

0 

* 

-J              , 

1cm 

L ► 

1  cm 

Fig.  4     PRINCIPLE  OF  THE  MERCURY 
BAROMETER 


indicating  device 


external  air  pressure 

^ 1 


3  E 

E    tN 


metal  box        I—, 
with  vacuum 


t- ^ 


1cm 


^ 


Fig.  5 


resisting  force  developed  by  springs 
Fig.  6     ANEROID  BAROMETER 


253 


ELECTRICITY   METERS   (ENERGY   METERS) 

Electricity  meters  are  used  for  measuring  the  "quantity"  of  electricity  consumed 
in  houses  and  factories.  What  the  meter  actually  measures  is  the  electric  energy 
that  passes  through  the  circuit.  For  direct  current  the  energy  is  A  =  V.I .t,  and  for 
single-phase  alternating  current  it  is  A  =  V.l.t  cos  4>  (cf.  page  82),  where  V  is  the 
voltage,  /  is  the  current  strength,  t  is  the  time,  and  cos  (f)  is  the  power  factor.  In  the 
case  of  direct  current  the  energy  can  be  metered  by  determining  the  value  of  / .  t  by 
means  of  an  ampere-hour  meter,  so  long  as  the  voltage  V  in  the  mains  is  kept 
constant.  In  alternating-current  supply  systems,  however,  only  watt-hour  meters 
are  used. 

Fig.  1  illustrates  the  principle  of  the  electrolytic  meter,  which  can  be  used  only  for 
alternating  current.  It  is  now  obsolete,  but  its  mode  of  functioning  is  of  some  interest. 
A  closed  glass  vessel  contains  an  electrolyte  consisting  of  a  solution  of  a  mercury  salt. 
Part  of  the  consumer  current  flows  through  this  electrolyte;  at  the  cathode  a  quantity 
of  mercury  proportional  to  the  value  of  I  .t  is  deposited.  The  mercury  collects  in  the 
bottom  part  of  the  vessel.  The  scale  is  graduated  in  k Wh.  The  mercury  can  sub- 
sequently be  retrieved  and  returned  to  the  top  compartment. 

Fig.  2a  shows  a  motor-type  ampere-hour  meter.  It  is  in  effect  a  small  direct-current 
motor.  The  armature,  or  rotor,  is  an  aluminium  disc  mounted  in  the  field  of  a  per- 
manent magnet.  The  disc  contains  three  coils  which  are  supplied  with  current  from 
a  commutator  consisting  of  three  sectors.  The  current  to  the  rotor  coils  is  propor- 
tional to  the  total  current  passing  through  the  consumer  installation,  from  which  it 
is  branched  off  (Fig.  2b).  Since  the  field  strength  of  the  permanent  magnet  is  constant, 
the  speed  of  rotation  of  the  rotor  is  proportional  to  the  current  strength.  The  counting 
mechanism  connected  to  the  rotor  shaft  counts  the  revolutions,  which  correspond 
to  the  product  / .  t.  If,  instead  of  the  permanent  magnet,  an  electromagnet  is  used  to 
produce  the  magnetic  field,  and  if  the  consumer  voltage  Kis  applied  to  this  coil,  then 
the  speed  of  rotation  of  the  rotor  is  proportional  both  to  Kand  to  /,  and  therefore 
to  the  product  V.I.  In  that  case  the  counting  mechanism  directly  records  the  energy 
V.l.t.  The  ampere-hour  meter  has  thus  become  a  true  watt-hour  meter. 

The  kind  of  meter  nowadays  generally  used  for  alternating  current  is  the  induction 
meter  (Fig.  3).  It  has  no  commutator.  There  are  two  electromagnets.  The  coil  of  one 
of  these  is  energised  by  the  consumer  current ;  the  other  magnet  coil  is  connected  to 
the  consumer  voltage.  If  the  current  and  the  voltage  in  the  consumer  circuit  are  in 
phase  with  each  other  (see  page  82), then  the  current  in  the  voltage  coil,  and  therefore 
the  magnetic  field  of  this  coil,  will  have  a  lag  of  one-quarter  period  (90°)  in  relation 
to  that  of  the  current  coil.  The  interaction  of  the  two  coils  produces  a  moving  magnetic 
field  which  induces  eddy  currents  in  the  light  aluminium  rotor  disc.  These  currents 
cause  the  disc  to  rotate  in  the  direction  of  motion  of  the  moving  field.  The  speed  of 
rotation  of  the  disc  is  proportional  to  the  strengths  of  the  two  magnetic  fields,  but 
it  is  also  dependent  upon  the  phase  displacement  of  these  fields  (and  therefore  upon 
the  power  factor  cos  $).  This  will  readily  be  understood  when  one  considers  the  case 
where  the  consumer  installation  has  a  90°  phase  displacement  between  V  and  / 
(i.e.,  cos  (f)  =  0) ;  when  this  happens  the  two  magnetic  fields  in  the  meter  will  be  in 
phase,  so  that  the  rotor  will  then  cease  to  rotate.  The  braking  magnet  (on  the  right 
in  Fig.  3)  constantly  produces  eddy  currents  in  the  rotor ;  these  damp  the  rotation 
and  thereby  ensure  that  the  rotor  stops  instantly  when  the  consumer  current  ceases 
to  flow. 


254 


jrcury 


athode  (— 


anode  (+) 
electrolyte 


ig.   1      ELECTROLYTIC  METER 


aluminium  disc  with 
three  flat  coils 
(armature) 


Fig.  2a     MOTOR-TYPE  METER  (schematic) 


counting 
mechanism 


Fig.   2b     WIRING  DIAGRAM  OF  A 
MOTOR-TYPE  METER 


counting 
i    O  -iT     mechanism 


consumer  current  flows 
through  electromagnet. 


"\ 


/current  magnetv 
'        I        |  ■      ~=j _i  braking  magnet 


Fig.  3     INDUCTION  METER 


255 


Electricity  meter,  used  in  France 
Photo  Sodel-Electricite  de  France 


C  C  €  -COMPTEURS      BT 

Fabr  a  Issyles  Moulineaux.Seiru 


ir  to  to  to  In  o 


kWh 


TYPE    B1C3     * 

MONOPHASE    2    FILS 

10-30  A    220  V      s 

C  3.6  Wh 


I 

i 

- 
I 

GAS   METERS 

Gas  meters  are  either  of  the  "dry"  or  the  "wet"  type.  The  "dry"  gas  meter  com- 
prises two  chambers  of  known  volume,  which  are  separated  from  each  other  by  a 
leather  diaphragm.  Both  chambers  have  inlet  and  outlet  valves.  The  pressure  of  the 
gas  causes  the  chambers  to  be  alternately  filled  and  emptied,  whereby  the  diaphragm 
is  alternately  stretched  and  relaxed.  These  movements  of  the  diaphragm  are  trans- 
mitted to  a  lever  system  which  controls  the  valves  of  the  chambers.  The  filled  chamber 
controls  the  mechanism  of  the  other  chamber,  which  is  about  to  be  filled. 

In  order  to  keep  the  flow  of  gas  through  the  meter  as  continuous  as  possible,  two 
two-chamber  systems  are  combined  into  a  unit.  Figs,  la-c  illustrate  some  stages  in  the 
alternate  filling  and  emptying  operations  of  the  system.  In  Fig.  la,  measuring  chamber 
la  is  full  of  gas.  Just  previously  to  this  the  control  mechanism  of  chamber  I  effected 
the  change-over  of  the  valve  so  as  to  let  gas  flow  into  chamber  lib.  When  this  chamber 
has  filled  up,  the  valve  a  opens  chamber  lb  further.  It  closes  the  latter  again  as  soon 
as  chamber  Ha  begins  to  fill  up  (Fig.  lb).  Fig.  lc  shows  chamber  lb  completely  closed 
by  the  valve,  while  chamber  Ila  is  in  the  final  stage  of  filling.  In  this  stage  chamber  lb 
begins  to  empty  its  contents;  at  the  same  time,  the  diaphragm,  acting  through  the 
crank  mechanism,  has  set  the  valve  a  so  as  to  let  gas  into  chamber  la.  As  chamber  la 
fills  up,  the  diaphragm  a  so  actuated  the  valve  b  that  chamber  Ila  is  emptied  and 
chamber  lib  fills  up. 

The  rate  of  emptying  and  filling  of  the  chambers  corresponds  to  the  rate  of  rise 
and  fall  of  the  diaphragms ;  this  rate,  which  is  therefore  a  measure  of  the  volume  of 
gas  consumed,  is  transmitted  to  a  counting  mechanism.  This  type  of  meter  is  able  to 
measure  even  very  small  rates  of  gas  flow  with  considerable  accuracy,  but  at  high 
rates  of  flow  the  accuracy  diminishes  because  the  valves  can  then  no  longer  be 
changed  over  quickly  enough.  The  meter  is  very  reliable  and  unlikely  to  develop 
disorders,  and  for  this  reason  it  is  widely  used  for  metering  domestic  supplies. 

The  "wet "  gas  meter  operates  on  the  same  principle  as  the  drum  type  rotary  meter 
for  liquids  (see  page  260).  The  Crossley  meter  is  an  extensively  used  type.  Its  principle 
is  illustrated  in  Fig.  2.  The  drum,  which  contains  four  compartments  with  inlet  and 
outlet  slots  or  holes,  rotates  half  immersed  in  water,  which  acts  as  a  seal.  As  soon  as 
the  inlet  hole  of  a  compartment  emerges  from  the  water,  gas  flows  into  it  and  fills 
the  compartment  as  the  water  level  in  it  goes  down.  When  the  outlet  hole  of  the  com- 
partment emerges  from  the  water,  the  gas  flows  out  through  this  hole.  Residual  gas 
remaining  in  the  compartment  is  forced  out  by  the  inflowing  water  as  the  drum  con- 
tinues its  rotation. 

In  Fig.  2,  compartment  I  of  the  meter  is  completely  filled  with  water.  The  gas  is 
being  forced  out  of  compartment  II  by  the  water.  Compartment  III  is  full  of  gas, 
and  compartment  IV,  whose  inlet  hole  has  just  emerged  from  the  water,  is  beginning 
to  fill  up  with  gas.  The  gas  pressure  causes  the  rotation  of  the  drum.  The  number  of 
revolutions  is  recorded  by  a  counting  mechanism  whose  readings  show  the  amount 
of  gas  consumed. 


258 


gas  to  be  metered 

slide  valve  a 


Fig.   1 

FUNCTIONING  OF  A 
"DRY"  GAS  METER 


direction  of 
rotation 

Fig.   2     "WET"  GAS  METER 


metered  gas 


259 


WATER   METERS 

Water  meters  used  for  measuring  water  consumption  may  function  according  to 
either  of  two  different  principles : 
Rate-of-flow  meters : 

In  devices  of  this  kind  the  flowing  water  rotates  a  propeller  whose  speed  of  rotation 
(r.p.m.)  is  measured.  A  certain  flow  rate  (cubic  feet  per  second)  corresponds  to  a 
certain  speed  of  the  propeller.  The  propeller  speed  indicator  can  therefore  be  cali- 
brated directly  in  cubic  feet  per  second  (or  gallons  per  second).  A  counting  mechanism 
which  totals  the  number  of  propeller  revolutions  will  thus  show  the  quantity  of 
water  consumed. 
Volumetric  meters: 

In  devices  of  this  category  a  rotating  chamber  or  container  of  known  volumetric 
capacity  is  constantly  filled  with  water  and  then  empties  itself.  Here  again  the  number 
of  rotations  is  a  measure  of  the  quantity  of  water  that  flows  through  the  meter.  Volu- 
metric meters  are  more  particularly  suitable  for  measuring  low  rates  of  flow.  In  the 
drum  type  meter  (Fig.  1)  the  water  enters  the  drum  at  the  central  inlet  and  fills  one 
of  the  measuring  compartments.  The  compartment  is  so  designed  that,  as  it  fills  up, 
the  weight  of  the  water  makes  the  drum  rotate  (in  Fig.  1  the  left-hand  deeper  part  of 
the  compartment,  when  full  of  water,  is  heavier).  The  rotation  of  the  drum  causes  the 
the  water  to  flow  out  of  the  outlet  opening.  Meanwhile  the  next  compartment  is 
already  being  filled  with  water  entering  at  the  central  inlet. 

For  the  metering  of  domestic  water  supplies  the  rotating  impeller  type  of  meter  is 
frequently  employed.  These  devices  are  of  two  types.  In  one  type  (Fig.  2)  the  impeller 
is  immersed  in  the  flow  of  water,  whereas  the  counting  mechanism  and  dial  are  housed 
in  a  dry  compartment.  In  the  other  type  (Fig.  3)  the  counting  mechanism  and  dial  are 
also  immersed.  The  latter  type  has  better  accuracy,  but  has  the  disadvantage  that  dirt 
in  the  water  is  liable  to  clog  up  the  dial. 

Woltmann  meters  are  used  for  the  metering  of  larger  quantities  of  water,  especially 
in  industry  (Fig.  4).  This  kind  of  meter  consists  essentially  of  a  straight  length  of  pipe 
in  which  a  propeller  is  installed,  which  rotates  and  transmits  its  motion  through  a 
worm  gear. 

A  different  type  of  metering  device  is  the  Venturi  meter  (Fig.  5).  It  is  based  on  the 
principle  that  different  flow  velocities  produce  different  amounts  of  suction.  The 
Venturi  meter  comprises  a  pipe  formed  with  a  constriction  or  "waist".  The  flow 
velocity  at  B  is  higher  than  at  either  of  the  sections  A,  and  the  suction  (measured  by 
the  difference  in  level  in  the  liquid  in  the  two  legs  of  the  U-tube  manometer)  at  B 
is  correspondingly  greater.  Since  the  difference  in  pressure  between  B  and  A  depends 
on  the  flow  velocity,  it  must  also  depend  on  the  quantity  of  water  passing  through  the 
pipe  per  unit  of  time  (flow  rate  in  cu.  ft./sec.  =  cross-sectional  area  of  pipe  in 
ft.  x  flow  velocity  in  ft./sec).  Hence  this  pressure  difference  provides  a  measure  for 
the  flow  rate.  In  the  gradually  tapered  portion  of  the  pipe  downstream  of  B  the  velo- 
city of  the  water  is  reduced  and  the  pressure  in  the  pipe  restored  to  the  value  it  had 
before  passing  through  the  constriction. 


260 


outlet  opening  of  comportment  1 

measuring  compartment  2 

measuring  compartment  3 

outlet  opening  of 
compartment  2 


counting  mechanism 

(dry) 


transmission  gear 
system  (wet) 


mpeller 


Fig.    1      DRUM   TYPE   METER   (volumetric  meter) 


water  inlet 


water  outlet 


Fig.  2     IMPELLER  TYPE  METER  WITH   "DRY"  COUNTING 
MECHANISM  (rafe-of-f/ow  meter) 


counting  mechanism  (wet) 
impeller 


water  outlet 


counting  mechanism 

(dry) 


transmission  gear 
system  (wet) 


Fig.  3     IMPELLER  TYPE  METER  WITH  COUNTING 

MECHANISM  IMMERSED  (rate-of-f(ow  meter) 


water  inlet 


section  A 


section  B 


section  A 


Fig.  4     WOLTMANN  METER 
(rafe-of-flow  meter) 


Fig.   5     VENTURI   METER 


261 


THERMAL   INSULATION 

If  two  bodies  with  different  temperatures  can  exchange  heat  with  each  other,  they 
will  finally  both  acquire  the  same  temperature  at  some  intermediate  value  between 
their  original  temperatures.  There  are  three  kinds  of  heat  transfer:  convection, 
radiation,  and  conduction.  In  the  case  of  convection  (Fig.  1),  heat  transfer  is  effected 
by  the  flow  of  a  eas  or  a  liquid  caused  by  local  heating  and  the  effect  of  gravity  (e.g., 
when  a  room  is  heated  by  warm  air  rising  from  a  stove  or  a  radiator,  water  heating; 
cf.  page  274  et  seq.).  Thermal  radiation  is  independent  of  heat-transmitting  matter 
and  can  also  be  effected  through  vacuum.  Every  hot  body  emits  rays  (electro- 
magnetic waves)  (Fig.  2)  which  are  located  in  the  infra-red  portion  of  the  spectrum, 
i.e.,  they  have  wavelengths  longer  than  those  of  visible  light  rays.  Bodies  which 
absorb  a  large  amount  of  radiation  (e.g.,  soot)  also  re-emit  a  large  amount  of 
radiation.  On  the  other  hand,  a  suitably  transparent  body  will,  in  general,  allow 
radiant  heat  to  pass  and  will  undergo  only  a  slight  rise  in  temperature  in  consequence. 

Transfer  of  heat  by  conduction  occurs  in  the  interior  of  solid  bodies  (Fig.  3)  and 
also  in  liquids  and  gases.  The  rate  of  transfer  will  depend  on  the  thermal  conductivity, 
the  thermal  capacity  of  the  materials,  and  the  temperature  difference.  In  building 
construction  the  thermal  conductivity  is  a  criterion  for  the  heat  insulating  capacity 
of  a  material,  which  is  important  with  regard  to  the  loss  of  heat  through  the  walls  of  a 
building.  In  metric  units,  thermal  conductivity  is  expressed  as  the  amount  of  heat 
(kcal)1  which  flows  through  1  m3  cube  of  a  material  in  a  time  of  1  hour  when  the  tem- 
perature difference  between  the  two  opposite  faces  of  the  cube  is  constantly  main- 
tained at  1°C.  The  "cube"  must  be  conceived  as  a  1  m2  area  of  a  1  m  thick  wall 
through  which  the  flow  of  heat  occurs.  Steel  has  a  thermal  conductivity  of  about 
50  kcal/m3h  °C ;  the  corresponding  figure  for  natural  stone  is  about  2.5,  for  concrete 
about  1.5,  for  brickwork  about  0.75,  for  glass  about  0.70,  for  wood  about  0.15,  and 
for  cork  panels  about  0.035.  In  British  units  the  conductivity  is  usually  expressed  as 
the  heat  (in  B.T.U.2)  that  is  transmitted  through  1  sq.ft.  of  a  1  ft.  thick  wall  in  1  hour 
for  a  temperature  difference  of  1    F  between  the  two  wall  faces. 

The  heat  capacity  (kcal  per  °C)  of  a  body  is  the  amount  of  heat  that  must  be  added 
to  it,  or  abstracted  from  it,  so  as  to  produce  a  change  of  1°  C  in  its  temperature.  The 
thermal  resistivity  is  the  reciprocal  of  the  thermal  conductivity  and  provides  a  direct 
indication  of  the  heat-insulating  power  of  a  material :  the  thicker  the  layer  of  material 
and  the  lower  its  thermal  conductivity,  the  higher  will  be  its  resistivity  (Fig.  4). 

The  best  heat  insulator  is  a  vacuum  (in  combination  with  efficient  protection  against 
heat  transfer  by  radiation).  An  important  application  is,  for  example,  the  vacuum 
flask,  a  double-walled  glass  vessel,  the  cavity  between  the  two  walls  being  exhausted 
of  air  (and  silvered  to  minimise  losses  of  heat  due  to  radiation),  so  that  this  vacuum 
serves  to  insulate  the  contents  of  the  flask  and  keep  them  hot  or  cold.  In  building 
construction,  heat  insulation  is  obtained  by  using  materials  which  are  poor  con- 
ductors of  heat,  especially  materials  containing  a  large  number  of  air-filled  voids  or 
pores.  Since  air  itself  is  a  poor  conductor  of  heat,  such  materials  are  good  insulators. 
Air  .as  a  heat-insulating  substance  is  also  utilised  in  cavity  walls,  i.e.,  brick  walls 
consisting  of  an  outer  and  an  inner  "leaf  separated  by  an  air  gap. 

1 .  Kilo  calories. 

2.  I  B.T.U.       0.252  kcal. 


262 


:ig.   1      CONVECTION  ^^^^^^^?^?^^^^^^?^^^^^ 


concave  mirror 


easily  inflammable 
substance  at  focus 


Fig.  2     RADIATION  thermometer 

t4 


Fig.  3     CONDUCTION    H 


Fig.  4     EXAMPLES  OF  TEMPERATURE  GRADIENTS  IN   A  WALL: 

(a)  without  insulation;  (b)  with  insulating  backing  and  facing 


263 


BLOCK   AND  TACKLE 

A  block  and  tackle  arrangement  is  an  extensively  applied  mechanical  device 
which  is  used  for  lifting  loads  and  hauling.  It  comprises  two  or  more  pulley  blocks 
and  a  length  of  rope  that  passes  round  the  pulleys.  With  its  aid  it  is  possible  to  lift 
heavy  loads  by  the  application  of  only  a  relatively  small  force.  The  mechanical 
principle  of  equilibrium  based  on  the  equation:  force  *  arm  of  the  force  =  load  x 
arm  of  the  load  is  illustrated  in  Figs,  la  and  lb.  In  Fig.  la  there  is  obviously  no 
equilibrium,  but  in  Fig.  lb  the  equilibrium  equation  is  satisfied,  i.e.,  one  boy  at  a 
distance  from  the  pivot  of  the  see-saw  (the  fulcrum  of  the  pivot)  will  counterbalance 
two  boys  (of  the  same  weight  as  the  other)  at  a  distance  \  I  from  the  pivot.  It  will 
also  be  apparent  that  if  the  boy  on  the  right-hand  side  descends  a  distance  s.  the 
boys  on  the  left  will  rise  a  distance  \  s.  The  product  of  the  force  (i.e.,  the  weighl 
moved)  times  the  distance  is  therefore  the  same  on  both  sides.  This  product — force  x 
distance — is  called  "work".  A  similar  situation  presents  itself  when  a  rope  carrying 
a  weight  at  each  end  is  passed  round  pulleys.  In  Fig.  2  there  is  no  equilibrium,  since 
the  left-hand  load  is  twice  as  large  as  the  right-hand  load  and  the  lever  arm  (equal 
to  the  radius  of  the  pulley)  is  the  same  for  both  loads  (just  as  in  Fig.  la).  In  the 
arrangement  shown  in  Fig.  3  there  is  a  top  "fixed"  pulley  and  a  moving  pulley,  the 
latter  being  suspended  by  two  "falls"  of  rope,  in  each  of  which  acts  a  pull  equal  tc 
half  the  load.  The  sole  function  of  the  top  pulley  is  to  change  the  direction  of  the  rope 
so  that  the  force  needed  on  the  right  to  balance  the  left-hand  load  can  act  as  a  down- 
ward pull.  This  arrangement  therefore  enables  a  load  of  a  certain  weight  to  be  raised 
by  the  application  of  a  force  only  half  as  great  as  that  load.  Thus  a  mechanica! 
advantage  is  gained,  but  there  is  no  saving  in  the  amount  of  work,  because  in  ordei 
to  raise  the  load  a  certain  distance,  the  right-hand  end  of  the  rope  (where  the  lifting 
force  is  applied)  must  move  twice  that  distance.  The  product  of  force  and  distance 
i.e.,  the  amount  of  work  done,  is  therefore  the  same  in  both  cases. 

By  increasing  the  number  of  pulleys  and  falls  of  rope,  the  mechanical  advantage 
is  increased  according  to  W  =  nP,  where  Wis  the  load,  P  is  the  force  applied,  and 
n  is  the  number  of  falls  of  rope  that  support  the  moving  block.  Thus,  in  the  arrange- 
ment illustrated  in  Fig.  6  there  are  six  falls,  enabling  a  load  to  be  lifted  by  the  appli- 
cation of  a  force  only  one-sixth  as  large. 

Different  arrangements  are  possible.  In  the  type  of  system  illustrated  in  Fig.  A 
(which  can  be  conceived  as  derived  from  Fig.  3  as  the  fundamental  case)  each 
additional  moving  block  doubles  the  mechanical  advantage,  i.e.,  W=  2mP.  where 
m  is  the  number  of  moving  blocks.  Thus,  in  Fig.  4  we  have  W=22P  =  AP  or  P  =  {W. 
If  there  were  a  third  moving  pulley  similarly  suspended,  the  force  would  be  one- 
eighth  of  the  load,  and  if  there  were  four  moving  pulleys,  it  would  be  one-sixteenth 
etc. 

The  arrangement  illustrated  in  Fig.  5  is  known  as  a  differential  pulley  block.  The 
top  block  comprises  two  firmly  interconnected  pulleys  of  different  diameter.  The 
rope  passes  continuously  round  the  two  pulleys  shown.  This  arrangement  provide* 
a  mechanical  advantage  determined  by  the  difference  in  diameter  (R  -  r)  between 
the  two  pulleys. 


264 


Fig.    la      NO   EQUILIBRIUM 


Fig     lb     EQUILIBRIUM 

foice  «  arm  of  force       load  >  arm  of  load 


fixed  pulleys 


-   moving  pulley 


Fig.   5      DIFFERENTIAL   PULLEY   BLOCK 


Fig.  6     MULTIPLE   BLOCK   AND  TACKLE 


Fig    4     RATIO   OF   FORCE   TO   LOAD   AND  OF  THE 

DISTANCES  THROUGH   WHICH   FORCE   AND   LOAD 
ARE   MOVED 


265 


PNEUMATIC    HAMMER 

A  pneumatic  hammer  delivers  a  large  number  of  blows  in  rapid  succession 
These  blows  are  delivered  by  a  piston  which  moves  to  and  fro  in  a  cylinder  and  i 
worked  by  compressed  air.  The  piston  strikes  the  upper  end  of  a  tool  inserted  it 
the  front  of  the  appliance.  Various  kinds  of  tool  can  be  fitted,  so  that  the  appliance 
can  be  used  not  merely  as  a  hammer,  but  as  a  pick,  a  concrete  breaker,  a  digging 
tool,  etc. 

The  compressed  air  is  supplied  through  a  hose  from  a  compressor  (see  page  32) 
When  the  inlet  valve  is  opened  by  means  of  the  lever  mounted  within  the  handle 
(Fig.  2),  the  air  flows  through  the  diaphragm  valve  into  the  outer  air  compartment 
The  diaphragm  valve  is  convex,  so  that  it  can  rock  to  and  fro.  In  Fig.  2  this  valve  is 
in  the  position  where  it  opens  the  inlet  passage  to  the  outer  compartment.  From 
here  the  air  flows  into  the  inner  compartment  from  below  and  forces  the  piston 
upwards.  The  air  above  in  the  space  above  the  piston  undergoes  compression,  sc 
that  it  forms  an  air  cushion  which  somewhat  softens  the  impact  of  the  return  move- 
ment of  the  piston.  At  the  same  time,  this  air  acts  against  the  underside  of  the  dis- 
phragm  valve  and  tilts  it  the  other  way,  with  the  result  that  the  inlet  passage  to  the 
outer  compartment  is  closed  and  the  inlet  passage  to  the  inner  compartment  is 
opened  (Fig.  3).  The  compressed  air  is  thereby  admitted  to  the  top  of  the  piston  and 
forces  it  downwards,  so  that  it  strikes  the  upper  end  of  the  tool.  Both  during  the 
downward  and  during  the  upward  stroke  of  the  piston  the  expanded  exhaust  air  is 
discharged  into  the  exhaust  air  compartment  and  thence  into  the  open  air. 

All  pneumatic  tools  of  the  hammer  or  drill  type  function  on  the  principle  described 
here,  though  there  are  differences  of  detail  in  the  design  of  the  valves. 


266 


control  lever 


I   1      INITIAL  POSITION 


diaphragm  valve 
outer  compartment 


267 


CRANES 

Cranes  are  of  many  different  kinds,  depending  on  the  purpose  for  which  they  arc 
intended  and  on  the  magnitude  of  the  loads  to  be  handled.  They  may  be  mobile  or 
stationary.  The  load  is  picked  up  by  means  of  such  attachments  as  hooks  or  tongs 
(for  individual  loads)  or  by  means  of  buckets,  skips  or  grabs  (for  bulk  materials). 
A  special  lifting  attachment,  used  mainly  for  the  handling  of  scrap  iron,  is  the  lifting 
magnet.  These  attachments  are  usually  suspended  from  wire  ropes  which  pass 
round  various  pulley  systems  and  are  wound  on  hoist  drums  which  are  driven  by 
electric  motors.  The  principles  of  the  pulley  block  (sec  page  264)  arc  often  embodied 
in  the  lifting  tackle  of  cranes. 

A  major  distinction  can  be  made  between  bridge  cranes  and  jib  cranes.  A  crane 
of  the  bridge  type  has  a  trolley,  or  crab,  which  travels  along  a  track  and  carries  the 
winch  that  lifts  the  load.  The  commonest  form  of  bridge  crane  is  the  overhead 
travelling  crane  used  in  factories,  workshops,  etc.  Such  a  crane  usually  consists  of 
a  "bridge",  comprising  two  girders,  each  end  of  which  is  mounted  on  a  truck  which 
travels  on  an  overhead  track  extending  the  length  of  the  building.  The  crab  can  travel 
to  and  fro  on  a  transverse  track  installed  on  these  girders.  The  combined  movements 
of  the  crab  and  of  the  crane  as  a  whole  enable  the  lifting  hook  to  be  brought  into 
position  at  any  desired  point  in  the  building. 

A  jib  crane  has  an  arm  called  the  jib  (or  boom)  which  can  usually  perform 
a  "slewing"  motion,  i.e.,  rotate  horizontally  about  a  vertical  pivot  (the  "king  pin") 
mounted  in  the  substructure  of  the  crane.  In  addition,  the  jib  is  often  able  to  perform 
a  "lulling"  (or  "derricking")  motion,  i.e.,  it  can  be  raised  or  lowered  by  varying  its 
angle  of  inclination.  The  combination  of  these  two  motions  enables  the  hook  to  be 
brought  into  position  at  any  desired  point  within  a  certain  radius.  A  type  of  jib  crane 
used  on  construction  sites  for  tall  buildings  is  the  tower  crane  (Fig.  1).  Another  type 
of  jib  crane  is  the  so-called  level-lulling  crane,  which  is  so  designed  that,  by  means 
of  some  form  of  compensating  mechanism,  the  load  moves  in  a  horizontal  path 
when  the  jib  is  lufTed  (raised  or  lowered);  this  arrangement  has  certain  technical  and 
operational  advantages,  especially  in  quay  cranes  used  for  loading  and  unloading 
ships  at  ports.  Fig.  2  shows  a  particular  form  of  level-lulling  crane  which  has  what 
is  known  as  a  double-lever  jib.  In  this  crane  the  compensating  action  is  obtained  by 
the  movements  of  the  jib  lever.  An  advantage  of  this  crane  is  that  its  projecting  jib  lever 
provides  a  greater  amount  of  lateral  clearance  than  an  ordinary  straight  jib,  so  that 
there  is  ample  space  for  handling  bulky  loads. 

Every  crane  has  a  certain  lifting  capacity,  ranging  from  a  few  tons  to  many 
hundreds  of  tons,  depending  on  the  type  of  crane  and  the  purpose  for  which  it  is 
intended.  In  jib  cranes  the  capacity  usually  varies  with  the  radius,  which  depends 
on  the  slope  of  the  jib.  When  the  latter  is  raised  to  a  steep  slope,  the  radius  the 
distance  from  the  load  to  the  centre  of  the  king  pin  is  small,  and  the  crane  can 
then  carry  a  heavier  load  than  when  the  jib  is  lowered  to  its  farthest  extent  and  the 
radius  is  large.  This  difference  in  lifting  capacity  at  different  radii  is  determined  by 
the  stability  of  the  crane,  i.e.,  its  safety  against  overturning.  The  weight  of  the  load 
(suspended  from  thejib)  multiplied  by  the  radius  constitutes  the  overturning  moment. 
The  latter  is  counterbalanced  by  a  heavy  counterweight  which  is  located  a  certain 
distance  rearward  from  the  king  pin  and  develops  a  counterbalancing  moment. 
This  counterweight  may  be  mounted  on  the  substructure  or  on  a  special  secondary 
jib  projecting  to  the  rear  and  is  sometimes  movable,  so  that  the  counterbalancing 
moment  can  be  varied  within  certain  limits.  The  overturning  moment  must  always 
be  smaller  than  the  counterbalancing  moment,  and  for  this  reason  only  a  certain 
maximum  load  is  permissible  at  a  certain  radius. 

Besides  hooks,  a  variety  of  lifting  and  handling  devices  can  be  attached  to  cranes. 
An  important  device  for  picking  up  bulk  materials  such  as  coal,  ore,  etc.  is  the  grab 
(Fig.  3).  It  consists  of  two  shells  which  can  open  and  close  to  pick  up  the  load  and 
subsequently  discharge  it.  These  movements  arc  produced  by  the  actuation  of  the 
holding  rope  and  the  closing  rope. 


268 


position  of  jib  can  be  varied  (maximum  permissible  value  of 
load  x  radius  remains  constant) 


\-  light  load 


Fig.   1      TOWER  CRANE 


head  sheave  remains  at 
approximately  constant  height 


ib  lever 


I J 


Fig.   2     LEVEL-LUFFING  CRANE 

WITH  DOUBLE-LEVER  JIB 


counterweight 


load  moves  horizontally  during  luffing 
mpty  grab  being  lowered  grabbing  filled  grab  being  raised 

holding-  h«'°«'"9  rope 
rope 


winch  drum 


emptying 


Fig.  3     HOW  A  GRAB  IS  OPERATED 


269 


LIGHTNING   CONDUCTOR 

A  lightning  conductor,  Or  lightning  rod.  comprises  a  system  of  metal  conducto 
whose  purpose  is  to  provide  an  easy  path  to  earth  for  a  lightning  discharge  strikir 
the  highest  points  of  a  building.  In  this  way  the  discharge  takes  place  through  tl 
conductor  instead  of  through  the  building,  so  that  the  latter  is  safeguarded  fro 
damage.  To  perform  this  function,  the  lightning  conductor  must,  of  course,  be  pn 
perly  earthed  (grounded)  (I  ig  I)  The  principle  of  the  lightning  conductor  wj 
discovered  by  Benjamin  franklin  in  the  1  Si  h  century.  The  system  consists  of  pointe 
air  terminals  (rods)  mounted  on  the  ridges  of  roofs,  on  chimneys,  etc.  Lightnir 
conductors  do  not  prevent  lightning  strokes,  but  exert  a  local  influence  to  dire 
strokes  to  the  an  terminals  and  thence  safely  to  earth.  To  help  them  perform  th 
function  the  air  terminals  are  provided  with  sharp  points.  At  these  points  the  lim 
of  force  of  the  electric  field  are  closely  concentrated  (Fig.  2),  so  that  ionisation  of  tf 
air  around  the  points  takes  place,  i.e.,  electrons  (negatively  charged  particles)  becorr 
dislodged  from  atoms,  with  the  result  that  the  latter  are  left  with  a  positive  charg 
thereby  making  the  air  conductive  to  electricity  and  providing  an  easier  path  fc 
the  lightning  discharge  (Fig.  3). 

Steel-framed  buildings  generally  need  no  special  lightning  protection,  as  the  fram 
itself  provides  a  suitable  path  for  the  lightning  discharge  to  earth.  Isolated  building 
such  as  farm  buildings,  run  a  greater  risk  of  being  struck  by  lightning  than  building 
of  similar  size  and  height  in  built-up  areas. 


270 


Fig.   1 


lightning  conductor 


/ 


Fig.   2     EFFECT  OF 

SHARP   POINT: 
electric  fines 
of  force 
are  closely 
concentrated 


atom  which  has 
lost  an  electron 


271 


LIFT  (ELEVATOR) 

A  lift  (or  elevator,  as  it  is  called  in  the  United  States)  is  a  power-operated  device 
for  lifting  and  lowering  passengers  from  one  level  to  another;  it  comprises  a  car 
which  runs  between  guide  rails  and  is  suspended  from  steel  hoisting  ropes.  The  weight 
of  the  car  and  its  load  is  approximately  counterbalanced  by  a  counterweight.  The 
weight  to  be  hoisted  by  the  drive  motor  is  therefore  never  the  total  weight  of  car  and 
passengers  but  only  the  relatively  small  difference  between  the  counterweight  and 
the  weight  of  the  loaded  car  (this  latter  weight  will,  of  course,  vary  to  some  extent, 
according  to  the  number  of  passengers  carried  at  any  given  time).  The  car  is  braked 
by  means  of  electromagnets  acting  upon  the  drive  shaft  of  the  hoist  pulley.  The 
creep  motion  of  the  car  before  stopping  at  a  floor  is  obtained  by  changing  over  to  a 
lower  speed  of  the  motor.  The  switches  which  automatically  effect  this  speed  change 
are  installed  on  the  inside  of  the  lift  shaft.  Similar  automatic  switches  unlock  the 
door  or  gate  of  the  lift  when  it  stops  at  a  floor  of  the  building.  When  the  lift  passes 
a  floor  without  stopping,  the  device  which  actuates  these  switches  is  rendered  tem- 
porarily inoperative. 

Some  lifts  are  equipped  with  a  safety  rope  which  runs  in  an  endless  loop  round 
pulleys  at  the  top  and  bottom  of  the  shaft  respectively  (Fig.  2).  This  rope  is  secured 
to  the  lift  car.  In  the  event  of  fracture  of  the  hoisting  rope,  the  car  will  drop.  This 
causes  the  pulleys  of  the  safety  rope  to  rotate  more  rapidly.  A  centrifugal  governor 
(see  page  214)  connected  to  the  top  safety  rope  pulley  then  actuates  a  switch  which 
sets  the  car  safety  device  in  operation.  This  causes  powerful  jaws  to  grip  the  guide 
rails  and  thus  arrest  the  descent  of  the  car.  Various  other  safety  devices  are  provided 
on  modern  lifts,  including  limit  switches  to  prevent  over-travel  of  the  car,  dooi 
interlocks  to  prevent  the  car  from  starting  until  the  doors  are  securely  closed,  etc 

A  type  of  lift  still  sometimes  employed  is  the  so-called  paternoster  lift  (Fig.  3) 
This  is  a  continuous  elevating  device  for  passengers,  which  consists  essentially  ol 
two  endless  chains  between  which  the  cars  are  suspended  and  which  are  so  arranged 
that  the  cars  go  up  on  one  side  and  down  on  the  other  side.  The  two  chains  are  driver 
by  a  motor  installed  at  the  top  of  the  building.  The  cars  travel  continuously,  but  ai 
low  speed,  so  that  there  is  sufficient  time  to  step  in  and  out  of  them  at  the  successive 
floors.  In  modern  buildings  such  devices  have  largely  been  superseded  by  escalators 
(see  p.  270,  vol.  II) 


272 


electric  motor 


drive  pulley 


weight  to 

be  lifted  5  kg 


weight  to 

be  lifted  10  kg 


10  kg 


centrifugal  governo 

stop  switch 
arresting  device 


g.   1      PRINCIPLE  OF  WEIGHT  AND  COUNTERWEIGHT  ^    ^Vl^fcr '  [if 


ilectric  motor 


sp  front  drive  pulley 


bottom  of  car 


bottom  front 
drive  pulley 


top  rear 
drive  pulley 


top  of  car 


stop  switch  control 


counterweight 
guide  rail 


bottom  rear 
drive  pulley 


Fig.  2     LIFT  INSTALLATION  (schematic) 


Fig.   3     PATERNOSTER  LIFT  (schematic) 


273 


HOT-WATER   HEATING    (GRAVITY   SYSTEMS) 

In  a  heating  system  operated  with  hot  water  the  water  serves  as  the  medium  for 
carrying  the  heat  to  all  parts  of  the  building.  Heating  causes  nearly  all  substances  to 
expand.  This  is  also  true  of  water.  A  result  of  this  phenomenon  is  that  the  specific 
gravity,  or  the  weight  per  unit  volume,  of  water  decreases  when  its  temperature  is 
raised,  i.e.,  warm  water  is  specifically  lighter  than  cold  water.  Fig.  1  illustrates  the 
principle  of  hot-water  heating.  When  the  tank  shown  at  the  bottom  left-hand  corner 
of  the  system  is  heated,  the  hot  water  rises  in  the  vertical  pipe  (because  of  its  lower 
specific  gravity,  which  makes  it  "float"  in  relation  to  the  colder  water),  while  cooler 
("heavier")  water  descends  in  the  right-hand  vertical  pipe  and  enters  the  tank  where 
it  is  in  turn  heated  and  rises  in  the  pipe  on  the  left.  In  this  way  a  constant  circulation 
of  water  through  the  pipes  and  through  the  radiator  in  the  top  right-hand  corner  of 
the  system  is  maintained. 

In  the  domestic  central  heating  system  in  Fig.  2  the  hot  water  from  the  boiler  rises 
through  the  flow  pipe  and  circulates  through  the  radiators.  In  these  it  gives  off  heat 
and  therefore  cools.  It  thus  becomes  specifically  heavier  and  descends  by  gravity 
through  the  return  pipes  to  the  boiler,  where  it  is  heated  and  resumes  its  circulation 
through  the  system.  For  efficient  circulation  the  boiler  must  obviously  be  located 
at  the  lowest  point  of  the  system. 

In  gravity  systems  the  water  is  heated  to  about  90°  C  when  it  rises  in  the  flow  pipe. 
The  radiators  are  so  designed  that  the  temperature  of  the  water  going  down  the  return 
pipes  is  about  70°  C.  Venting  the  system,  i.e.,  allowing  entrapped  air  in  the  radiators 
to  escape,  is  essential  to  ensure  efficient  functioning.  A  vent  pipe  may  be  installed 
at  the  top  of  the  system ;  the  radiators  may  be  provided  with  individual  venting  cocks. 

In  the  simplest  form  of  gravity-circulation  hot-water  heating  (Fig.  2)  all  the  hot 
water  ascends  to  roof  level  through  the  flow  pipe  and  then  flows  down  through  return 
pipes  and  passes  successively  through  the  radiators  on  the  various  floors  of  the 
building.  The  disadvantage  is  that  the  radiators  on  the  lower  floors  receive  colder 
water  than  those  on  the  upper  floors  and  therefore  have  to  be  made  larger  in  order 
to  compensate  for  this.  For  this  reason  the  so-called  two-pipe  system  (Fig.  3)  is 
preferred,  in  which  each  radiator  has  its  own  individual  hot-water  feed  instead  of 
(in  the  case  of  the  radiators  on  the  lower  floor  in  Fig.  2)  receiving  water  which  has 
already  passed  through  another  radiator. 


274 


heat  dissipation 

El 


i 


KfcfeSisA 


specifically 
lighter  warm 
water  rises 


specifically 
heavier  cold 
water  descends 


'W 


t  applied 

1      PRINCIPLE  OF 

HOT-WATER  HEATING 
(single-pipe  system) 


Fig.   2     OPEN   GRAVITY  HOT  WATER  HEATING 
(single-pipe  system) 


Fig.   3     OPEN  GRAVITY  HOT-WATER 
HEATING  (two-pipe  system) 


275 


HOT-WATER   HEATING   (PUMPED   CIRCULATION   SYSTEMS) 

Gravity  systems  rely  entirely  on  the  difference  ill  specific  gravity  between  hotter 
and  colder  water  to  produce  the  desired  circulation  and  are  especially  suitable  for 
small  buildings  and  also  for  large  buildings  which  are  concentrated  on  plan.  For 
large,  sprawling  complexes  of  buildings  more  efficient  circulation  can  be  achieved 
by  means  o\'  an  electrically  driven  centrifugal  pump  (cf.  page  30).  Pipes  of  smaller 
diameter  than  in  gravity-circulation  systems  can  be  employed. 

The  pump  may  be  installed  either  in  the  flow  pipe  (i.e.,  in  the  pipe  extending  from 
the  boiler  to  the  radiators)  or  in  the  return  pipe.  In  the  former  arrangement  the 
pump  sucks  hot  water  from  the  boiler  and  forces  it  through  the  pipes  into  the  radiators, 
whence  it  returns  to  the  boiler  When  the  pump  is  in  the  return  pipe,  it  sucks  the 
cooled  water  from  the  radiators  and  forces  it  into  the  boiler.  In  the  simplest  arrange- 
ment for  a  pumped-circulation  hot-water  heating  system  the  radiators  on  succcssi\e 
floors  are  connected  in  series  (single-pipe  system.  Fig.  1). 

The  two-pipe  system  with  pumped  circulation  is  similar  in  principle  to  the  gravity 
system  (see  page  214).  In  addition,  the  pump  may  be  installed  in  the  flow  pipe  or  in 
the  return  pipe  (Fig  3  and  Fig.  2).  as  already  stated.  In  the  two-pipe  system  the  hot 
water  that  flows  into  the  radiators  and  the  cooled  water  that  flows  out  of  them  are 
conveyed  through  two  different  pipelines.  The  installations  described  here  are  known 
as  low-pressure  systems,  i.e.,  they  are  in  open  communication  with  the  external  air 
through  a  vent  pipe  from  the  expansion  tank. 

Hot-water  heating  systems  can  be  automatically  controlled,  i.e..  the  room  tem- 
perature can  be  kept  constant  at  any  desired  value  by  means  of  thermostats  (see 
page  26)  I'hcsc  devices  are  pre-set  to  the  desired  temperature,  and  when  the  actual 
temperature  rises  above,  or  falls  below,  this  value,  the  thermostats  transmit  impulses 
which  control  the  valves  which  in  turn  control  the  flow  of  hot  water  to  the  radiators 
or  control  the  tiring  of  the  boiler  itself  by  appropriately  varying  the  fuel  supply 
rate  or  (in  the  case  of  coal-fued  s\  stems)  the  combustion  air  rate.  In  the  case  of  pumped 
circulation  it  is.  alternatively,  possible  to  control  the  hot-water  flow  by  varying  the 
speed  of  the  pump. 


276 


1  st  hea 


flow  pipe 


air  vent  pipe 
expansion  tank* 


ing  circuit 


boiler 


CD 
CD 


S 


I  2nd  heating  circuit 
/  regulating  valve 


radiator 


aif 


return 
*  pipe 


pump 

return  pipe  for  emptying 
the  expansion  tank 


Fig.   1      SINGLE-PIPE   PUMPED-CIRCULATION 
HEATING  SYSTEM  with  radiators 
connected  in  series  (two  circuits)  and 
pump  installed  in  the  return  pipe 


overflow  from  expansion  tank 
flow  pipe 


expansion  tank 


pump 


Fig.  2     TWO-PIPE  SYSTEM  with  pump 
installed  in  the  return  pipe 


return  pipe  for  emptying 
the  expansion  tank 


return  pipe 


non-return  valve 


Fig.   3     TWO-PIPE   SYSTEM  with  pump 
installed  in  the  flow  pipe 


277 


STEAM    HEATING 

In  this  type  of  central  heating  the  heat-conveying  medium  is  not  hot  water,  but 
steam.  In  the  radiators  the  steam  gives  oft"  its  heat  and  condenses.  It  thus  flows  back 
as  water  to  the  boiler,  where  it  is  again  turned  into  steam  (Fig.  1).  In  houses,  low- 
pressure  steam  heating  systems  are  used ;  these  usually  have  an  excess  pressure  of 
about  0.5  atm.  (7  lb./in2.)  in  relation  to  the  external  air,  with  which  the  system  is  in 
communication  through  valves.  The  hot  steam  used  has  a  temperature  of  around 
105°  C. 

From  the  boiler  the  steam  rises  to  the  main  distribution  pipe,  which  is  installed 
either  in  the  basement  (Fig.  2a)  or  in  the  top  storey  (Fig.  2b)  of  the  building.  From 
this  pipe  the  steam  flows  into  the  radiators;  the  condensation  water  flows  back  to 
the  boiler  through  the  same  pipe.  This  return  flow  pipe  may  be  situated  above  the 
level  of  the  water  in  the  boiler.  This  arrangement  may  be  described  as  "dry"  con- 
densate return.  To  prevent  steam  from  also  flowing  back  into  the  boiler,  steam  traps 
are  installed  in  this  pipe.  In  the  second  system  the  return  flow  pipe  is  situated  below 
the  boiler  water  level  and  is  entirely  filled  with  water  and  thus  prevents  the  return 
flow  of  steam  ("wet"  condensate  return). 

In  the  two-pipe  system,  which  is  more  often  employed,  the  steam  and  the  condensate 
flow  in  separate  pipes.  Here  again  bottom  (Fig.  3a)  or  top  distribution  (Fig.  3b) 
may  be  employed.  In  both  cases,  however,  the  steam  always  enters  the  radiators 
from  above  and  subsequently  emerges  (as  condensate)  from  below.  When  the  system 
is  started  up,  and  the  pipes  and  radiators  become  filled  with  steam,  the  air  that  was 
present  in  them  is  forced  to  the  bottom  of  the  system  (as  steam  is  specifically  lighter 
than  air),  where  it  must  be  discharged  through  vent  cocks. 

To  prevent  the  pressure  in  the  boiler  from  becoming  excessively  high,  the  steam 
pipe  is  connected  by  means  of  a  branch  pipe  to  a  relief  valve,  which  may  be  of  the 
type  illustrated  in  Fig.  4.  Increasing  steam  pressure  in  the  boiler  forces  the  water 
down  in  pipe  I  and  up  in  pipes  II  and  III.  If  the  pressure  becomes  excessive,  the  water 
in  pipe  I  is  forced  down  so  far  that  steam  can  escape  through  pipe  II  and  pipe  IV. 
The  water  displaced  from  pipe  II  is  collected  in  the  tank  and  subsequently,  when  the 
pressure  goes  down,  flows  back  into  pipe  III. 


278 


condensate 


a—  source  of  heat 

water  turns  to  steam  by  heating 

ig.   1      PRINCIPLE  OF  CIRCULATION 

IN   A  STEAM  HEATING  SYSTEM 


water  level 


air  valve 
steam  distribution  pipe 
condensate  return  pipe 


Fig.   2a     SINGLE-PIPE  LOW-PRESSURE  SYSTEM  WITH 
BOTTOM   DISTRIBUTION   AND  "WET" 
CONDENSATE   RETURN 


Fig.   2b     SINGLE-PIPE  LOW-PRESSURE   SYSTEM  WITH  TOP 

DISTRIBUTION   AND   "DRY"  CONDENSATE   RETURN 


water  level 


boiler  condensate  pipe 


Fig.   3a     TWO-PIPE   LOW-PRESSURE  SYSTEM  WITH   BOTTOM 
DISTRIBUTION   AND  "DRY"  CONDENSATE   RETURN 


pressure  relief 
system 


condensate 


water  level 


j.  3b     TWO-PIPE   LOW-PRESSURE  SYSTEM  WITH  TOP 

DISTRIBUTION   AND  "WET"  CONDENSATE   RETURN 


to  open  air 


Fig.  4     PRESSURE  RELIEF  SYSTEM 


279 


GAS   HEATING 

Gas  heating  systems  are  usually  fired  with  normal  town  gas.  Like  any  other  form 
of  heating,  gas  heating  functions  on  three  physical  principles:  thermal  radiation, 
convection,  and  conduction.  Which  of  these  three  heat  transmission  effects  pre- 
dominates in  any  particular  case  will  depend  on  the  type  of  heating  appliance. 

One  type  of  gas  heater  is  the  so-called  infra-red  radiator,  whose  heating  action 
is  based  mainly  on  the  emission  of  infra-red  rays  (these  are  heat  rays  and  occur  in 
the  invisible  range  beyond  the  red  end  of  the  spectrum  of  visible  light).  These  rays 
are  produced  by  burning  gas  in  special  burners  (Fig.  la)  whose  heat  is  directed  at 
panels  of  fireclay,  steel  fabric  or  some  other  suitable  material,  which  are  thus  heated 
to  glowing  temperature  and  emit  radiant  heat.  For  heating  halls  and  large  rooms 
these  radiant  panels  may  be  fitted  to  the  ceiling  (Fig.  lb).  The  radiation  becomes 
more  intense  according  as  the  panels  are  hotter. 

So-called  convection  heaters  represent  a  different  heating  principle.  In  this  case 
the  hot  gases  of  combustion  mainly  give  off  its  heat  indirectly  to  the  surrounding 
air.  The  most  well  known  type  of  heating  appliance  functioning  on  this  principle  is 
the  gas  radiator,  in  which  the  burners  are  usually  arranged  in  a  row  at  the  base.  The 
hot  combustion  gases  from  the  flames  flow  upwards  through  the  radiator  ribs 
which  in  turn  give  off  the  heat  to  the  air.  The  latest  form  of  construction  of  the  gas- 
fired  convection  heater  is  the  chimneyless  type  (Fig.  3),  which  can  be  mounted 
against  any  external  wall.  After  giving  off  most  of  their  heat,  the  combustion  gases 
are  discharged  through  a  vent  pipe  straight  into  the  open  air.  The  significant  feature 
of  these  convection  heaters  is  that  the  hot  gases  are  conducted  through  the  appliance 
by  the  longest  possible  path,  so  as  to  enable  them  to  part  with  as  much  of  their  heat 
as  possible. 


280 


burner  pipe 


heated  panel  gas  inlet  Fig.   lb     BUILDING  HEATED  BY 

Fig.   la     INFRA-RED  RADIATOR  INFRA-RED  RAYS 

outlet  for  combustion  gases 


ribs  through  which 
the  hot  combustion 


gases  rise 


reflector  throws 
back  the  heat  rays 


burner  pipe 


~^ 


Fig.  2     GAS-FIRED  CONVECTION   HEATER 


W\ 


casing  (white 
enamelled) 


combustion  gases 


gas  supply 
connection 


0  f  protective  screen 


radiant  burner 


Fig.  3     CHIMNEYLESS  GAS  HEATER 


281 


HEAT   PUMP 

The  principle  of  the  heat  pump  is  similar  to  that  of  the  compression  refrigerator 
(see  page  310).  It  has  the  same  components:  compressor,  condenser,  throttle  valve 
and  evaporator.  But  whereas  the  refrigerator  extracts  heat  from  a  chamber  by  the 
evaporation  of  the  refrigerant  and  thereby  lowers  the  temperature,  the  heat  pump 
supplies  heat  to  a  room  by  condensation  of  a  heat-transfer  medium.  The  phenomenon 
utilised  for  this  purpose  is  that  fluids  which  are  under  high  pressure  evaporate  at  a 
higher  temperature  than  fluids  under  a  lower  pressure.  In  Fig.  1  two  chambers  are 
interconnected  by  a  passage  in  which  a  vessel  which  completely  seals  it  off  can  move 
from  right  to  left  and  back.  Atmospheric  pressure  exists  in  the  left-hand  chamber, 
while  the  right-hand  chamber  is  under  a  much  lower  pressure  (i.e.,  a  partial  vacuum). 
If  energy  is  supplied  to  a  quantity  of  water  in  the  right-hand  chamber,  this  water 
will  evaporate  ("boil,v)  already  at  a  temperature  below  100°  C.  When  a  vessel 
containing  water  vapour  formed  by  this  process  is  shifted  from  the  right-hand  to 
to  the  left-hand  chamber,  the  steam  will  at  once  condense  at  the  higher  pressure 
which  prevails  in  the  latter  chamber.  On  condensing,  it  gives  off  heat.  In  this  way 
a  substantial  proportion  of  the  heat  input  in  the  right-hand  chamber  is  recovered 
in  the  left-hand  chamber  (there  can  never  be  complete  recovery,  since  some  energy 
must  be  expended  in  pushing  the  vessel  to  the  left,  against  the  higher  pressure). 

In  the  heat  pump  (Fig.  2)  the  fluid  heat-transfer  medium — e.g.,  ammonia — is 
evaporated  at  low  pressure  in  the  evaporator.  The  heat  needed  for  this  may  be 
obtained  from  various  sources.  For  a  small  installation,  the  evaporator  may,  for 
example,  merely  be  buried  in  the  ground.  The  soil  at  all  times  contains  sufficient 
heat  to  evaporate  the  heat-transfer  medium.  Other  heat-transfer  media  that  can  be 
employed  under  suitable  conditions  are  water  and  air.  The  work  of  transporting 
the  medium  from  low  to  high  pressure  is  done  by  the  compressor.  It  draws  in  the 
vapour  and  compresses  it  to  the  desired  higher  pressure.  Then,  in  a  condenser,  the 
steam  is  condensed  at  that  higher  pressure  and  gives  off  heat  in  doing  so.  This  con- 
densation is  effected  by  passing  the  vapour  through  pipes  with  water  flowing  around 
them.  The  heat  from  the  vapour  of  the  condensing  heat-transfer  medium  is  thus 
transferred  to  this  water,  which  is  thereby  heated  to  about  60°-70°  C.  and  can  be 
used  as  a  second  heat  transfer  medium  to  feed  the  radiators  of  a  heating  system. 
It  cools  in  the  radiators  and  flows  back  to  the  condenser,  where  it  is  heated  up  again. 
In  so  far  as  this  circulating  water  is  concerned,  the  condenser  of  the  heat  pump 
therefore  performs  the  function  of  an  ordinary  central  heating  boiler.  The  vapour 
which  condenses  in  the  system  is  expanded  to  a  lower  pressure  through  a  valve  and 
is  again  evaporated  in  the  evaporator. 

By  means  of  this  cycle  the  heat-transfer  medium  within  the  heat  pump  is  "pumped 
up"  from  a  low  temperature  (e.g.,  the  temperature  of  river  water,  about  10°  C,  say) 
to  a  higher  temperature  (high  enough  for  a  central  heating  system),  .the  necessary 
work  being  done  by  the  compressor.  Heating  systems  based  on  this  principle  can  be 
advantageous  where  electricity  to  drive  the  compressor  is  cheap.  They  are  also 
sometimes  installed  in  buildings  where  both  cooling  and  heating  are  necessary, 
e.g.,  in  dairies.  The  cellars  can  be  cooled  by  the  extraction  of  heat  by  the  evaporator, 
while  the  heat  evolved  in  the  condenser  heats  the  upper  storeys. 

Figs.  3a  and  3b  show  a  heat  pump,  which  can  be  used  for  heating  or  cooling  the 
room,  depending  on  the  setting  of  the  four-way  valve. 


282 


0 


100  tor r 

© 


gh  pressure 
nospheric 
pressure) 

\ 

760  torr 

work  done  (shifting) 

^\        1     w 

1 

)  i     ^F 

r 

Y' 

__ 
iter  (condensed  vapou 

water  vapour 

•*—  [— — ^^  ~ —=———= — =J 

c  f  r  i"  f 

fttt! 

heat  given  off 


Fig.    1      PRINCIPLE   OF   HEAT   PUMP 
high  pressure 


heat  supplied 


cooling  water 


heat  of  condensation  is 
liberated  (condenser) 


energy  supplied  for 
producing  the  different 
levels  of  pressure 


thermal  energy  supplied 
(evaporator) 


low  pressure 
(vacuum) 


low  pressure 


Fig.   2      DIAGRAM   SHOWING  OPERATION   OF   HEAT   PUMP 


Fig.   3a      HEATING 


Fig.   3b     COOLING 


283 


VALVES,   COCKS  AND  TAPS 

Devices  known  as  valves,  cocks,  taps  and  faucets  are  used  for  controlling  the  flow 
of  liquids  and  gases.  "Valve"  is  the  general  term.  The  familiar  water  tap  (or  faucet) 
is  technically  therefore  a  valve.  A  plug  cock  (Fig.  1)  is  a  simpler  device  in  which  the 
fluid  passage  is  a  hole  in  a  rotatable  plug  which  has  a  slightly  tapered  shape  and  is 
fitted  in  the  body  of  the  cock.  Opening  and  closing  the  cock  is  done  by  rotating 
the  plug  through  an  angle  of  90°.  Some  degree  of  flow  control  is  possible  by  setting 
the  plug  of  the  cock  in  an  intermediate  position.  Much  more  accurate  control  of 
the  rate  of  flow  of  the  fluid  is  provided  by  a  valve,  of  which  there  are  a  number  of 
different  types.  A  feature  common  to  most  manually  operated  flow  control  valves 
is  the  stem  (a  screw  spindle)  surmounted  by  a  handwheel.  The  fluid  (gas  or  liquid) 
flows  through  an  opening  whose  edge  forms  the  valve  seat.  The  ordinary  domestic 
water  tap  illustrates  the  principle  (Fig.  2).  The  stem  is  provided  with  a  disc  which 
is  usually  provided  with  a  replaceable  sealing  washer  to  make  the  actual  contact 
with  the  seat  and  thus  stop  the  flow  of  water.  To  open  the  tap,  the  disc  is  raised  by 
rotating  the  handwheel  (or  simple  cross-bar  handle)  in  the  anti-clockwise  direction, 
so  that  the  stem  is  screwed  out  of  the  valve  body.  Clockwise  rotation  brings  the 
valve  disc  into  contact  with  the  seat  and  thus  closes  the  tap.  In  some  valves  the  stem, 
instead  of  being  provided  with  a  disc,  ends  in  a  conical  point  which  is  inserted  into 
the  hole  of  the  seat  and  closes  it  when  the  stem  is  screwed  right  home.  This  type  is 
known  as  the  needle  valve.  Another  variant  is  the  angle  valve  (Fig.  3).  Larger  valves 
used  for  controlling  the  flow  of  liquids  in  pipelines,  water  mains,  etc.  are  often  of  the 
kind  illustrated  in  Fig.  5.  It  is  known  as  a  gate  valve  or  sluice  valve.  In  this  valve  a 
wedge-shaped  gate,  actuated  by  a  stem  (with  screw  thread)  and  a  handwheel,  moves 
up  and  down.  The  gate  bears  against  two  seat  faces  to  shut  off  the  flow.  The  fluid 
flows  through  the  gate  valve  in  a  straight  line,  so  that  the  flow  resistance  is  minimised. 
The  valve  stem  must  be  suitably  sealed  at  its  point  of  entry  into  the  valve  body,  in 
order  to  prevent  leakage  of  the  fluid.  The  seal  is  usually  formed  by  a  so-called  stuffing 
box  (Fig.  4),  which  is  a  cylindrical  recess  filled  with  packing  which  is  compressed  by 
a  sleeve  (known  as  a  gland)  to  make  a  tight  joint.  The  material  inserted  in  the  stuffing 
box  is  called  packing.  It  may  be  a  compressible  material  such  as  hemp  or  asbestos. 
The  pressure  exerted  by  the  gland  (screwed  or  bolted  on)  keeps  the  packing  tightly 
pressed  against  the  valve  stem. 


284 


closed 


open 


Fig.   1      PLUG  COCK 


Fig.  2     SCREW-DOWN   STOP  VALVE 


Fig.  3     ANGLE  VALVE 


gland 

stuffing-box 
with  packing 


valve  body 


Fig.  4     STUFFING  BOX 


stem  (screw 
spindle) 


wedge-shaped  gate 

Fig.  5     DOUBLE-FLANGED 
SLUICE  VALVE 


285 


DOOR   LOCKS 

The  simplest  kind  of  door  lock  is  the  so-called  rim  lock,  whose  metal  case  is 
screwed  to  the  face  of  the  door  (Fig.  7).  The  lock  is  provided  with  a  bolt  which  can 
be  slid  out  or  withdrawn  by  the  action  of  the  key.  When  the  key  is  turned,  it  first 
presses  the  tumbler — which  is  kept  engaged  with  the  bolt  by  the  pressure  of  a 
spring — upward  and  thus  releases  the  bolt.  The  key  bit  (the  lateral  projection  at 
or  near  the  end  of  the  key)  then  engages  with  the  first  notch  on  the  underside  of  the 
bolt.  Further  rotation  of  the  key  causes  the  bolt  to  slide  until  the  catch  of  the  tumbler 
engages  with  the  next  notch  on  the  top  of  the  bolt.  In  simple  locks,  as  on  cupboard 
doors,  this  completes  the  locking  action;  but  doors  of  rooms  usually  have  double- 
action  locks,  in  which  the  same  operation  is  repeated  and  the  bolt  is  moved  along  a 
further  distance.  Safeguard  against  unauthorised  entry  is  provided  merely  by  the 
individual  shape  of  the  bit  (Fig.  2)  and  the  corresponding  hole  into  which  it  is 
inserted. 

Greater  safety  is  provided  by  a  lock  having  not  one,  but  several  tumblers  (Fig.  3). 
In  such  a  lock  the  bolt  is  provided  with  a  "stop"  (a  projecting  pin).  The  tumblers  are 
not  notched  at  the  top  edge  as  in  Fig.  1,  but  have  their  notches  formed  on  the  inside 
of  a  slot.  The  stop  on  the  bolt  engages  with  these  notches.  The  undersides  of  the 
tumblers  are  variously  shaped,  and  the  key  bit  is  provided  with  corresponding  cuts 
and  projections  (Fig.  4).  When  the  key  is  turned  in  the  lock,  the  projections  of  the 
bit  raise  all  the  variously  shaped  tumblers  an  exact  specified  amount,  whereby  a 
clear  passage  for  the  stop  through  the  slot  is  provided. 

A  further  safeguard  is  obtained  by  the  use  of  one  or  more  wards.  A  ward  may 
take  the  form  of  a  ring  (as  in  Fig.  5a)  or  a  number  of  studs  which  are  arranged  in  a 
circle  around  the  centre  of  rotation  of  the  key.  The  key  bit  is  then  additionally 
provided  with  grooves  (Fig.  5b)  which  engage  with  the  wards.  If  the  key  is  not 
provided  with  such  grooves  in  the  correct  position,  it  cannot  be  turned  in  the  lock. 
The  wards  are  fixed  to  the  back  plate  of  the  lock  or  to  a  separate  mounting  plate 
(Fig.  6a);  in  that  case  the  key  has  a  divided  bit  (which  fits  over  the  plate),  the  grooves 
for  the  wards  being  arranged  as  shown  in  Fig.  6b.  The  lock  illustrated  in  Fig.  7  has 
multiple  lever  tumblers  similar  to  those  in  Fig.  3.  For  cylinder  locks  see  page  288. 


286 


Fig.   1      LOCK  WITH  ONE  TUMBLER 


mm 


Fig.  2     KEY  BITS 


stop 


Fig.  3        LOCK  WITH 
SEVERAL  TUMBLERS 


Fig.  4     KEYS  FOR  LOCKS  WITH 
SEVERAL  TUMBLERS 


annular  ward  fixed  to 
back  plate  of  lock 


5a     WARD 


ward 
mounting  plate 


Fig.  6a 


WARDS  FIXED  TO   SEPARATE 
MOUNTING  PLATE 


Fig.  6b     KEY  FOR  LOCK   IN   FIG.   6A 


Fig.  5b     KEY  FOR  LOCK 

PROVIDED  WITH   A  WARD 


faceplate 


spring 
latch  bolt 


bush  and  follower 

latch  bolt  spring 

tumbler  spring 

bolt 

tumber 

stop 

lever 


night  bolt 

bush  and  follower 
for  night  bolt 


Fig.  7     RIM  LOCK 


287 


CYLINDER    LOCK 

The  central  feature  of  the  cylinder  lock  is  a  rotatably  mounted  plug  or  cylinder. 

In  the  locked  position  (Fig.  1)  a  number  of  pin  tumblers  of  different  lengths  and 
comprising  an  upper  and  lower  segment  are  pressed  down  by  springs  to  engage 
with  holes  in  the  cylinder,  thereby  preventing  the  latter  from  rotating.  When  the 
key  is  inserted  into  the  lock  (Fig.  2),  the  lower  segments  of  the  pin  tumblers  are  raised 
by  exactly  the  correct  amount  to  bring  their  tops  flush  with  the  outer  surface  of  the 
cylinder.  As  the  two  segments  of  each  tumbler  are  separate,  i.e.,  not  interconnected, 
the  cylinder  is  then  free  to  rotate  when  the  key  is  turned.  The  cylinder  actuates  the 
bolt,  so  that  door  can  be  opened.  If  the  wrong  key  is  inserted,  it  will  not  raise  all  or 
any  of  the  lower  tumbler  segments  to  the  correct  height,  and  the  cylinder  cannot 
be  rotated  (Fig.  3). 

Another  and  generally  cheaper  type  of  cylinder  lock  is  the  disc  tumbler  lock,  in 
which  the  locking  action  is  provided,  not  by  segmented  pins,  but  by  movable  discs 
which  lock  the  cylinder. 


288 


springs 


Fig.   1      LOCKED:   PINS  PREVENT 
PLUG  FROM  ROTATING 


plug  (cylinder) 


Fig.  2     UNLOCKED:   KEY   PUSHES  UP  THE  PINS 
SO  THAT  PLUG  CAN   BE   ROTATED 


Fig.  3  WRONG  KEY  INSERTED:  NOT  ALL  THE 
PINS  ARE  LIFTED  A  SUFFICIENT  DIS- 
TANCE;   PLUG   CANNOT    BE    ROTATED 


289 


ELECTRIC   BELL 

In  an  electric  bell  the  to-and-fro  movement  of  the  hammer  is  produced  by  electro- 
magnetic action.  A  two-pole  electromagnet  (comprising  two  cores  interconnected 
by  an  iron  yoke)  is  energised  and  attracts  the  armature  to  which  the  hammer  is 
attached.  At  that  instant  the  circuit  is  broken  by  the  contact  which  is  likewise 
attached  to  the  armature;  the  electromagnet  immediately  releases  the  armature, 
which  springs  back,  whereupon  the  contact  re-establishes  the  circuit  and  thus  causes 
the  electromagnet  to  be  energised  again ;  and  so  on.  This  continues  for  as  long  as  the 
push-button  is  pressed.  A  bell  of  this  kind  (or  a  buzzer,  which  is,  in  fact,  nothing  but 
an  electric  bell  which  has  no  hammer  and  no  gong)  can  work  on  direct  current  or 
on  low-frequency  alternating  current.  For  alternating  current  an  alternative  type 
of  bell  can  be  used,  which  requires  no  make-and-break  contact  (Fig.  2).  The  armature 
is  polarised,  i.e.,  it  is  permanent  magnet.  The  electromagnet  varies  its  polarity  in 
the  rhythm  of  the  frequency  of  the  current,  so  that  the  armature  is  periodically 
attracted  and  repelled.  The  hammer  thus  moves  to  and  fro  in  time  to  the  alternation 
of  the  current.  Bells  of  these  kinds  are  chiefly  used  in  telephones. 


290 


/f 


r 


battery 


1 


armature 


r  interrupter 
contact 


hammer 


Fig.   1      ELECTRIC  BELL  AND  CIRCUIT 


push-button 


=4*\ 


gong 


polarised  armature  S 


Fig.  2     ALTERNATING-CURRENT  BELL 


electro- 
magnet 


push-button 


A  ~~  A 


291 


DOOR-CLOSER 

The  door-closer  is  the  familiar  device  that  automatically  closes  an  opened  door. 

The  simplest  type  (Fig.  1)  works  merely  with  a  coil  spring.  It  has  the  disadvantage 
that  the  door  is  shut  rather  violently.  For  this  reason  a  more  sophisticated  device 
is  used,  which  develops  a  slow  closing  movement.  Door-closers  of  this  kind  operate 
on  the  principle  of  the  shock  absorber  (p.  232,  vol.  1 1):  a  piston  moving  in  a  cylinder 
forces  oil  through  small  openings.  When  the  door  is  opened,  the  piston  is  withdrawn ; 
and  the  oil  in  the  cylinder  opens  a  ball  valve  in  a  passage  provided  in  the  piston  and 
flows  into  the  space  to  the  right  of  the  piston  (Fig.  2).  When  the  door  is  released,  it 
is  closed  by  the  action  of  the  spring;  the  piston  travels  back  to  the  right  and  forces 
the  oil  through  the  return  passages  (Fig.  3)  into  the  space  to  the  left  of  the  piston. 
At  first,  the  movement  proceeds  quite  rapidly  because  the  oil  can  flow  back  through 
two  passages ;  but  it  becomes  slower  and  slower,  because  the  oil  escape  is  progressively 
cut  off  by  the  advance  of  the  piston. 

The  regulating  screw  provides  the  means  of  compensating  for  differences  in  the 
viscosity  of  the  oil  at  different  temperatures.  In  cold  weather  the  oil  is  relatively 
thick.  By  unscrewing  the  regulating  screw  the  flow  passage  through  which  the  oil 
escapes  is  enlarged,  so  that  the  door  can  be  closed  just  as  briskly  as  in  warmer 
weather,  when  the  oil  is  thinner  and  therefore  flows  more  easily.  However,  this 
adjustment  is  unnecessary  if  special  silicone  oils,  which  have  an  almost  unvarying 
viscosity,  are  used  in  the  door-closer. 


292 


spring  slack 


Fig.   1 


spring  tensioned 


regulating  screw 


oil  filling  ball  valve 


regulating  screw 


return  flow  passages 


Fig.  3 


spindle  -        \.  main  arr 


293 


WATER   CLOSET  (TOILET) 

When  the  chain  attached  to  the  lever  of  the  flushing  cistern  is  pulled  (Fig.  2),  the 
hollow  iron  bell-shaped  unit  rises  and  opens  the  passage  to  the  flush  pipe.  As  soon 
as  water  flows  down  this  pipe,  a  vacuum  is  formed  in  the  cavity  of  the  bell  and  causes 
more  water  to  flow  from  the  cistern  through  the  bell  and  down  the  pipe.  The  cavity 
inside  the  bell  thus  acts  as  a  siphon  (Fig.  1).  When  a  vacuum  is  formed  at  C  (by 
initially  applied  suction),  water  is  drawn  through  the  siphon  tube.  Once  the  flow 
has  been  started,  it  will  continue.  For  the  siphon  to  function,  its  outlet  must  always 
be  below  the  level  of  the  water  in  the  tank.  When  the  chain  of  the  water  closet  has 
been  briefly  pulled  and  released,  the  bell  falls  back  into  position  over  the  inlet  of 
the  flush  pipe,  but  the  flow  of  water  down  the  pipe  continues — thanks  to  the  siphon 
effect — until  the  cistern  has  been  drained.  As  the  water  level  in  the  cistern  goes 
down,  the  float  descends  and  opens  the  water  supply  valve,  so  that  the  cistern  fills 
up  again.  When  the  float  has  risen  to  a  certain  level,  the  inflowing  water  is  cut  off 
by  the  valve.  The  capacity  of  the  flushing  cistern  is  usually  2  gallons. 

Fig.  3  illustrates  another  type  of  cistern.  When  the  rod  is  briefly  pulled  up  and  then 
released,  the  water  here,  too,  continues  to  flow  until  the  cistern  is  drained.  The  rod 
is  provided  with  a  freely  movable  float  which  is  prevented  from  floating  to  the 
surface  of  the  water  by  two  stops  on  the  pull  rod.  When  the  rod  is  raised  and  the 
inlet  of  the  flush  pipe  is  opened,  the  closing  pressure  which  is  developed  by  the  water 
column  in  the  full  tank  is  reduced.  The  buoyancy  of  the  float  predominates  and  keeps 
the  pipe  inlet  open.  Then  the  rod  descends  and  the  rubber  valve  disc  is  thrust  against 
its  seat  by  the  inflowing  water. 

In  some  systems  the  flush  pipe  is  connected  to  the  water  supply  through  a  lever- 
operated  (Fig.  4)  or  a  push-button-operated  valve  (Fig.  5).  In  the  former  the  flushing 
operation  is  initiated  and  terminated  by  hydraulic  pressure  equalisation  which  is 
effected  by  the  composite  valve  system.  In  the  push-button  type,  actuation  of  the 
button  initiates  the  flow,  which  is  subsequently  likewise  cut  off  by  pressure 
equalisation  and  spring  action. 


294 


siphon  tube 


/^k 


WSiOmlM 


BC  is  longer  than  AB 


[t  C  (vacuum  initially  draws  the  water 
through  the  tube  to  start  the  siphon) 


Fig.    1      PRINCIPLE  OF   SIPHON 


t 


water  under  pressure  (keeps  piston  closed) 


pressure  equalising 


water  at 
lins  pressure 


ion  for  raising  piston 
lifting  rod 


sleeve  connected 
to  lever 


flush  pipe 


pressure  equalising  nozzl 


Fig.   5      PUSH-BUTTON-OPERATED   FLUSHING   SYSTEM 


Fig.   4     LEVER-OPERATED  FLUSHING   SYSTEM 


295 


AIR   CONDITIONING 

The  function  of  an  air-conditioning  system  is  to  keep  the  temperature  and  humidity 
of  the  air  in  rooms  at  values  which  provide  a  sense  of  comfort  for  human  beings. 
The  upper  temperature  limits  of  comfort  are  about  20°  C  and  25°  C  in  winter  and 
and  summer  respectively.  At  the  same  time,  the  relative  humidity  of  the  air  must  be 
between  35  and  70%.  The  relative  humidity  denotes  the  amount  of  water  vapour 
actually  present  in  the  air  as  a  percentage  of  the  maximum  amount  that  could  be 
present  at  that  particular  temperature,  i.e.,  if  the  air  were  saturated  with  moisture. 
It  is  therefore  the  ratio  of  the  pressure  of  water  vapour  present  to  the  saturated 
vapour  pressure  at  the  same  temperature. 

The  central  feature  of  an  air-conditioning  system  is  the  air-conditioning  plant 
(Fig.  1).  Fresh  air,  together  with  a  proportion  of  the  air  returned  from  the  air- 
conditioned  rooms  (recirculated  air)  is  drawn  into  a  mixing  chamber,  the  relative 
quantities  of  fresh  air  and  recirculated  air  being  controlled  by  valves.  This  air  is 
cleaned  by  means  of  filters.  These  usually  have  glass-wool  filter  elements  in  which 
dust  is  retained. 

After  filtering,  the  air  is  preheated.  This  is  done  by  means  of  heating  pipes  through 
which  steam  or  hot  water  is  passed  and  which  are  provided  with  fins  which  serve 
to  increase  their  heat-exchange  surface  area.  The  air  to  be  preheated  flows  along  these 
fins  and  absorbs  heat  from  them.  Excess  moisture  is  removed  from  a  portion  of  the 
air  by  cooling.  The  warmer  the  air  is,  the  more  water  vapour  it  can  absorb.  Conversely, 
when  air  with  a  certain  moisture  content  is  cooled,  water  condenses  in  the  form  of 
myriads  of  tiny  droplets,  which  appear  as  fog.  In  the  cooler  of  the  air-conditioning 
plant  the  moisture  is  thus  precipitated.  The  moisture  content  and  temperature  of 
the  air  emerging  from  the  cooler  are  determined  by  the  temperature  of  the  cooler. 
This  air  is  then  mixed  with  the  air  coming  straight  from  the  preheater,  so  as  to  obtain 
an  air  mixture  of  the  desired  temperature.  If  the  moisture  content  of  the  mixture  is 
too  low,  finely  atomised  water  is  added  by  spray  nozzles.  This  causes  some  cooling 
of  the  air,  and  for  this  reason  the  air  is  passed  through  a  reheater  which  is  essentially 
similar  to  the  preheater  and  which  gives  the  air  its  desired  final  temperature.  Behind 
the  reheater  is  the  fan  which  forces  the  conditioned  air  through  ducts  to  the  various 
parts  of  the  building.  The  constant  supply  of  air  to  the  rooms  produces  a  slight 
excess  pressure  in  them,  which  causes  the  exhaust  air  to  flow  back  through  return 
ducts.  Some  of  this  exhaust  air  is  discharged  to  the  open  air,  while  a  certain  portion 
(the  recirculated  air)  is  returned  to  the  conditioning  plant.  In  smaller  air-conditioning 
units  the  air  sometimes  is  divided  into  two  streams,  one  of  which  is  heated  and  the 
other  cooled  (Fig.  2).  In  each  room  these  two  air  streams  are  mixed  in  the  proportions 
to  produce  the  temperature  desired  by  the  occupants  of  that  particular  room. 

The  system  described  in  the  foregoing  is  what  is  known  as  a  centralised  air- 
conditioning  system,  i.e.,  all  the  air  is  treated  in  a  central  conditioning  plant  and 
conveyed  through  ducts  to  the  rooms.  There  are  many  variants  of  the  centralised 
system.  Decentralised  systems  operate  either  in  conjunction  with  a  central  condi- 
tioning plant  which  treats  only  the  proportion  of  outside  air  that  is  introduced  into 
the  system,  or  they  may  be  fully  decentralised,  using  only  self-contained  cabinet  or 
box-type  air-conditioning  units  in  the  various  rooms. 


296 


exhaust  air 


y////////////////////^^^^^ 

& -—i  i 1  ^     air-conditioned  room 

i         I v 


I  !  i 

Q  0 


lated  air  ^  temperature     I  humidity  controller 

%  controller  I  (hygrostat) 

j>  (thermostat)     I  ■ 


^^^^^^^^^^^^ 


ib* 


hot-water 
nlet 


control  frecirculatecT)        fi|f 

damper  for  -fair 

v.  fresh  a 
outdoor  air    ^ 


mixing  chamber 


q 


cooler  Y  reheater 


Urz.- 


cooling  water  outlet 


preheater 


humidifier 


cooling  water 
inlet 


fan  (blower) 


water  circulating  pump 


-»-    hot-water  outlet 


Fig.   1      CENTRALISED  AIR  CONDITIONING  SYSTEM 


cooler 


control  damper 


Han 


Fig.  2     SELF-CONTAINED  AIR-CONDITIONING  UNITS 


297 


FANS,   BLOWERS  AND  CENTRIFUGAL  COMPRESSORS 

Mechanical  devices  for  moving  air  or  other  gases  and  operating  on  the  centrifugal 
principle — as  also  applied  in  centrifugal  pumps  (cf.  page  30) — are  sometimes  classi- 
fied as  fans  (high  rates  of  delivery  at  low  pressure),  blowers  (high  rates  of  delivery  at 
medium  pressure),  and  compressors  (high-pressure  delivery).  In  semi-technical 
language,  however,  the  term  "fan"  is  more  often  applied  to  any  propeller-type 
device  which  imparts  motion  and  acceleration  to  air  (Fig.  2). 

The  operating  principle  is  the  same  for  all  three  classes  of  centrifugal  machine. 
The  air  is  drawn  in  at  the  centre  of  the  casing  (Fig.  la)  by  the  rotating  impeller  which 
is  driven  by  an  electric  motor  and  contains  a  number  of  passages  arranged  in  a  spiral 
pattern  (Fig.  3).  On  flowing  through  these  passages  the  air  is  given  an  acceleration 
and  emerges  under  pressure  from  the  spiral  casing  (volute)  of  the  fan  (Fig.  lb).  To 
obtain  higher  delivery  pressures,  a  number  of  such  impellers,  mounted  on  the  same 
shaft,  can  be  installed  one  behind  the  other  (in  series),  whereby  the  desired  high 
pressure  is  achieved  in  several  successive  stages  (Fig.  4). 

Air  can  also  be  compressed  by  rotary  methods  based  on  positive  displacement. 
Fig.  5  illustrated  the  functioning  of  a  rotary  compressor  of  this  kind.  A  cylindrical 
rotor  is  disposed  eccentrically  in  a  cylindrical  casing.  The  rotor  is  provided  with 
approximately  radial  plates  which  are  movably  inserted  in  slots.  As  a  result  of  the 
high  speed  of  rotation,  these  plates  are  flung  outwards  by  the  centrifugal  force  and 
are  thus  passed  against  the  inside  of  the  casing.  Because  of  the  eccentricity  of  the 
rotor,  the  compartments  between  these  plates  become  alternately  larger  and  smaller, 
so  that  the  air  drawn  into  the  compartments  from  the  inlet  pipe  is  compressed  and 
discharged  under  pressure  from  the  outlet  pipe.  In  the  Roots  blower  (Fig.  6)  two 
mating  lobed  impellers,  driven  by  two  gear  wheels  which  are  in  mesh  with  each  other, 
revolve  in  opposite  directions  within  a  casing. 


298 


driving  shaft 


a)  section  along  shaft 
Fig.   1      CENTRIFUGAL  COMPRESSOR 


b)  section  perpendicular  to  shaft 


Fig.  3     IMPELLER 


cooling  water 

.  c°nipa^men^V^      movable  plate 
casing 


Fig.  4     MULTI-STAGE  COMPRESSOR 


Fig.  5     ROTARY  COMPRESSOR 


Fig.  6     ROOTS  BLOWER 


299 


ROOM-HEATING   STOVE 

The  most  familiar  type  is  the  coal-burning  slow-combustion  stove  (Fig.  1).  It  has 
a  combustion  chamber,  lined  with  fireclay,  which  is  charged  with  coal.  The  air  for 
combustion  enters  the  combustion  chamber  from  below  (by  the  action  of  natural 
draught).  In  another  type  of  stove  the  air  is  drawn  through  the  fuel  in  the  downward 
direction  (Fig.  2).  Combustion  takes  place  more  particularly  at  the  bottom  of  the 
combustion  chamber ;  the  narrower  portion  above  it  serves  as  a  feed  hopper  from  which 
fresh  coal  is  supplied  as  the  coal  on  the  grate  burns  away  (base-burner  stove). 

For  better  heat  utilisation  the  combustion  gases  must  not  be  directly  discharged 
up  the  chimney,  but  should  be  compelled  to  make  a  detour  so  as  to  give  off  more  of 
its  heat.  For  this  purpose  the  gases  are  made  to  pass  through  a  system  of  ducts  called 
flues.  An  efficiently  designed  stove  embodying  this  principle  can  achieve  as  much  as 
80  per  cent  heat  utilisation.  Even  so,  the  temperature  of  the  gases  discharged  up  the 
chimney  is  still  about  200°  C ;  the  surface  of  the  stove  has  approximately  the  same 
temperature  when  it  is  operating  at  full  capacity. 

A  further  development  is  represented  by  the  so-called  tile  stove  (Figs.  3a  and  3b), 
which  consist  of  an  iron  stove  surrounded  by  a  kind  of  jacket  or  casing  constructed 
of  tiles  or  some  other  ceramic  material.  The  flue  gases  additionally  give  off  heat  to 
this  casing,  which  stores  up  the  heat  and  gradually  gives  it  off  to  the  air  in  the  room. 

Oil-fired  stoves  (Figs.  4  and  5)  operate  as  follows :  The  oil  from  the  supply  tank 
flows  into  a  small  control  tank  which  contains  a  float-operated  valve  that  cuts  off 
the  inflow  when  the  oil  in  the  control  tank  has  reached  a  certain  level.  In  this  way 
an  approximately  constant  oil  feed  pressure  to  the  burner  is  ensured.  From  the  control 
tank  the  oil  flows  through  a  control  valve  which  can  be  set  to  deliver  the  oil  to  the 
burner  at  a  certain  rate.  By  varying  the  valve  setting,  the  heat  output  of  the  stove  can 
be  regulated.  The  burner  is  usually  of  the  pot  type,  in  which  the  oil  first  vaporises 
as  a  result  of  coming  into  contact  with  the  hot  walls  of  the  combustion  chamber. 
Combustion  air  flows  into  the  chamber  through  holes,  and  the  oil  vapour  burns 
continuously.  The  hot  gases  of  combustion  flow  upwards  and  heat  the  combustion 
chamber  walls.  These  in  turn  give  off  their  heat  to  the  air  in  the  room.  Some  stoves  are 
equipped  with  small  fans  to  assist  the  flow  of  combustion  air,  thus  making  this  largely 
independent  of  chimney  draught.  The  fuel  used  is  a  relatively  light  fuel  oil.  The  hot 
gases  discharged  up  the  chimney  have  a  temperature  of  300°-400°  C. 


300 


side  view 


side  view 


draught 


l  /    if  (regulating 


Fig.   1      COAL-BURNING  SLOW-COMBUSTION  STOVE 


regulating 
lever 


/  ^P^  \  drou9ffi^y^ 


Fig.  2     BASE-BURNER  STOVE 


heating  box 


warm  air  outlet 
grating  ~|f\ 

stove  jacket 
iron  inner  stove 

air  inlet  grating 


Fig.  3a     TILE  STOVE 


Fig.  3b     TILE  STOVE  WITH  FAN-ASSISTED 
AIR  CIRCULATION 


combustion 
chamber 

pot-type 
burner 


a)  fan  mounted  under  the  burner 

in 
ft 


smoke  flue        b)  fan  mounted  on  one  side 
of  the  burner 


regulating  valve 


z^_  /i    \  i    Is-  air  inlet  / 

<   '    N  f    x   \  L_ 


A 


^  - 


fan 


X5^. 


>S^^^~ 


*s 


oil 


Fig.  4     OIL  STOVE  WITH  VAPORISING  BURNER 


301 


Fig.   5     VAPORISING  BURNER  WITH   FAN 


GAS-FIRED  WATER   HEATER   (GEYSER) 

In  the  so-called  "instantaneous"  gas-fired  water  heater  (flow  heater  or  geyser) 
the  water  flows  continuously  through  the  appliance,  i.e.,  there  is  no  storage  vessel. 
The  mode  of  functioning  of  such  a  heater  is  illustrated  by  the  accompanying  diagram. 

The  central  feature  is  the  heat  exchanger  through  which  the  water  flows  and  which 
is  surrounded  by  the  hot  combustion  gases  produced  by  the  burners.  In  the  heat 
exchanger,  which  has  a  large  heat  transfer  surface  area,  a  large  proportion  of  the 
heat  contained  in  these  gases  is  transferred  to  the  water.  The  heat  transfer  is  chiefly 
governed  by  the  difference  in  temperature  between  the  water  to  be  heated  and  the 
hot  gases  and  by  the  flow  velocity  of  the  water  through  the  heat  exchanger. 

The  pilot  flame  is  kept  alight  and  instantly  lights  the  burner  when  the  main  gas 
supply  is  turned  on.  The  gas  flow  controller  keeps  the  rate  of  supply  of  gas  to  the 
burner  constant  and  protects  the  applicance  from  overloading.  The  gas  valve  in 
the  gas  flow  controller  is  itself  controlled  by  the  water  flow  acting  through  the  agency 
of  a  diaphragm  and  a  venturi  tube  (see  page  260).  The  water  flow  controller  keeps  the 
water  flowing  at  the  desired  pre-set  rate  by  throttling  down  the  mains  pressure. 
With  this  device  the  flow  of  water  through  the  heat  exchanger  can  be  regulated,  and 
the  final  temperature  of  the  hot  water  can  thus  be  varied. 

To  get  hot  water,  it  is  necessary  first  to  move  the  gas  control  lever  to  the  igniting 
position  and  light  the  pilot  flame  (assuming  that  this  has  not  been  done  already). 
The  heat  of  this  flame  causes  the  end  of  a  bimetallic  spring  (see  page  26)  to  move 
downwards,  causing  the  ignition  safety  valve  of  the  burner  to  open.  When  the  gas 
control  lever  is  moved  farther,  to  the  "on"  position,  gas  is  admitted  under  the  water- 
controlled  gas  valve  (which  is  still  closed,  however).  Now  when  the  hot-water  outlet 
valve  is  opened,  the  flowing  water  causes  an  excess  pressure  to  develop  in  front  of 
the  venturi  tube  and  a  suction  at  the  throat  of  this  tube.  The  excess  pressure  and  the 
suction  act  on  the  underside  and  on  the  top  of  the  diaphragm  respectively.  As  soon 
as  a  certain  minimum  quantity  of  water  is  flowing  through  the  venturi,  the  diaphragm 
is — by  the  combined  action  of  pressure  and  suction— lifted  to  such  an  extent  that 
the  water-controlled  gas  valve  is  fully  opened  (against  the  restraining  force  of  a 
spring).  The  gas  thus  flows  to  the  burner  and  is  lit  by  the  pilot  flame.  The  combustion 
gases  rising  from  the  burner  flames  heat  the  water  as  it  flows  through  the  heat 
exchanger.  When  the  water  is  subsequently  turned  off  (or  if  the  supply  accidentally 
fails),  the  pressure  on  the  two  sides  of  the  diaphragm  becomes  equal,  the  diaphragm 
descends,  and  the  spring-loaded  water-controlled  gas  valve  closes,  so  that  the  burner 
(except  the  pilot  flame)  goes  out.  If  the  gas  is  turned  off  (or  if  the  pilot  flame  is 
extinguished  by  whatever  cause),  the  bimetallic  spring  cools,  and  the  ignition  safety 
valve  is  closed  by  the  spring,  so  that  no  unburned  gas  can  escape  even  with  the  water 
turned  full  on. 


302 


heat  exchanger 


0 


K. 


bypass 

temperature  selector 
(closed)  


regulating  screw  (for  adjustment 
if  gas  pressure  is  too  low) 


water 
inlet 


Tj-£^P-=2_3jiqF_;diaphragm  = 


irjt-:    water  flow  controller 


gas  control 
lever 


pressure 
relief  valve 


1 


cold  water  outlet  valve 


hot  water  outlet  valve 


303 


THERMAL   ELECTRIC   DOMESTIC  APPLIANCES 

Thermal  electric  domestic  appliances  utilise  the  property  of  electric  current  of 
being  able  to  develop  heat  when  it  encounters  resistance.  The  electric  current  is 
conveyed  by  electrons.  These  transfer  some  of  their  kinetic  energy  to  the  atoms  of 
which  the  conductor  (the  resistance  wire)  consists,  causing  these  atoms  to  vibrate 
more  violently  about  their  respective  equilibrium  positions.  It  is  this  agitation  of 
the  atoms  that  manifests  itself  as  a  rise  in  temperature,  i.e.,  heat.  For  a  constant 
voltage,  the  heat  produced  by  the  current  is  proportional  to  the  square  of  the  current 
strength  times  the  resistance  of  the  wire,  i.e.,  proportional  to  I2R  (Joule's  law).  To 
obtain  a  good  heat  output  it  is  therefore  necessary  to  use  conductors  having  a  high 
electric  resistance.  Various  forms  of  tubular  heating  elements  containing  coiled 
resistance  wire  are  illustrated  in  Fig.  1. 

The  simplest  electric  heating  devices  are  immersion  heaters,  which  may  be  either 
of  the  tubular  type  (Fig.  2a)  or  the  annular  type  (Fig.  2b).  The  heat  produced  in  the 
heating  element  is  transferred  to  the  surrounding  liquid.  The  heat  losses  are  small, 
and  immersion  heaters  therefore  have  a  high  efficiency,  nearly  all  the  heat  being  given 
off  to  the  liquid. 

The  principal  component  of  an  electric  cooker  is  the  hot  plate  (or  boiling  plate) 
(Fig.  3).  Temperature  control  is  usually  effected  by  means  of  a  bimetallic  strip  device 
(cf.  page  26).  A  bimetallic  strip  consists  of  two  strips  of  metal,  with  different  co- 
efficients of  thermal  expansion,  bonded  together.  On  being  heated  the  two  metals 
undergo  different  amounts  of  expansion,  so  that  the  strip  curves  and  its  free  end 
(assuming  the  other  end  to  be  fixed)  therefore  deflects.  This  deflection,  which  is 
greater  in  proportion  as  the  temperature  is  higher,  can  be  used  for  actuating  a  contact 
or  a  switch.  If  the  distance  from  the  switch  to  the  home  ("cold")  position  of  the  end 
of  the  strip  is  made  variable,  the  bimetallic  device  will  be  able  to  switch  the  current 
on  and  off  over  a  whole  range  of  operating  conditions.  Another  device  for  utilising 
the  difference  in  thermal  expansion  of  two  metals  for  performing  a  temperature- 
controlling  function  in  domestic  appliances  is  the  Invar  rod.  Invar  is  an  iron-nickel 
alloy  with  a  very  small  coefficient  of  thermal  expansion,  so  that  it  undergoes  hardly 
any  change  in  length  on  being  heated.  One  end  of  such  a  rod  is  fixed  in  a  slightly 
shorter  brass  tube.  When  the  tube  becomes  hotter,  it  expands  and  increases  its  length, 
so  that  the  end  of  the  Invar  rod  disappears  into  the  tube.  When  the  tube  cools,  the 
end  of  the  rod  emerges  again.  The  relative  movement  of  the  tube  and  the  rod  can 
be  used  for  operating  a  switch  (e.g.,  through  suitable  levers).  A  water-boiling  pan 
(Fig.  4)  may  be  equipped  with  a  temperature-protective  device  (thermal  release) 
which  must  automatically  switch  off  the  current  in  the  event  of  overheating  and  then 
be  capable  of  resetting  to  normal  functioning  of  the  appliance  by  pushing  a  button, 
a  thermal  release  of  this  kind  often  comprises  a  bimetallic  contact. 

(Continued) 


304 


heating  coil 


wall  of  tube 


heating  coil 


wall  of  tube 


ceramic  insulating  material 


ceramic  insulating  material 


heating  coil  waM  of  tube 


I   1      TUBULAR  HEATING  ELEMENTS  USED  IN 
SMALL  DOMESTIC   HEATING  APPLIANCES 


Fig.  2     IMMERSION   HEATER:  (a)  tubular  type 
(b)  annular  type 


feed  wires 


.  3     SECTION  THROUGH  A  HOT  PLATE 


heating 
wires 


adjusting  knob  thermal  release 

Fig.  4     SECTION  THROUGH   A  WATER-BOILING  PAN 


305 


THERMAL   ELECTRIC   DOMESTIC  APPLIANCES 
(continued) 

With  the  immersion  heater,  water  boiling  pan  and  hot  plate  the  transfer  of  heat  is 
effected  mainly  by  conduction  and  convection.  In  the  electric  toaster  (Fig.  5),  how- 
ever, the  heat  is  transferred  by  radiation.  The  slices  of  bread  are  inserted  into  two 
slots  which  have  heating  elements  on  both  sides.  When  the  toast  is  ready,  a  bimetallic 
device  releases  a  spring,  causing  the  slices  of  toast  to  "pop  up". 

In  some  warming  pads  the  temperature  can  be  pre-set  to  one  of  three  maximum 
values,  e.g.,  80°,  70°  or  60°  C.  When  the  pre-selected  temperature  is  reached,  the 
current  is  automatically  switched  off  by  means  of  a  bimetallic  device.  When  the 
temperature  drops,  the  current  is  switched  on  again.  The  settings  for  these  various 
temperatures  are  obtained  by  varying  the  degree  of  preheating  of  the  bimetallic 
strip  (Fig.  6).  With  the  lowest  preheat  setting  the  highest  temperature  stage  is  ob- 
tained. In  addition,  a  bimetallic  safety  device  is  provided,  which  breaks  the  circuit 
in  the  event  of  an  excessively  high  temperature  being  reached  (about  85°  C). 

Electric  water  heating  appliances  may  be  subdivided  into  storage  heaters,  boilers, 
and  flow  heaters  (geysers).  A  storage  heater  comprises  a  water  tank  which  is  provided 
with  efficient  thermal  insulation  and  whose  contents  are  heated  by  a  kind  of  im- 
mersion heater.  Fig.  7a  illustrates  a  small  heater  of  this  kind.  The  temperature 
control  is  "infinitely-variable"  by  means  of  a  bimetallic  controller  of  special  design 
(Fig.  7b).  When  the  bimetallic  strip  is  heated,  it  curves  upwards  and  thrusts  against 
an  actuating  lever  which  is,  at  first,  kept  pressed  down  by  a  spring.  When  the  force 
exerted  by  the  bimetallic  strip  overcomes  the  counteraction  of  the  spring,  the  actuat- 
ing lever  springs  up  and  opens  the  contacts.  With  the  heating  element  thus  switched 
off,  or  when  hot  water  is  tapped  from  the  tank  (which  is  then  replenished  with  cold 
water),  the  bimetallic  strip  cools  and  the  operation  is  reversed,  causing  the  contacts 
to  be  closed.  By  rotating  the  control  knob  for  pre-selecting  the  temperature,  the 
setting  of  the  lever  mechanism  in  relation  to  the  bimetallic  strip  is  varied,  so  that  the 
device  can  be  made  to  control  the  temperature  over  a  fairly  wide  range  (e.g.,  from 
35°  to  85°  C). 


306 


Fig.  5     ELECTRIC  TOASTER 


bimetallic  strip  as 
temperature  controller 


bimetallic  strip 
as  safety  device 


^yiAAWWWWWVWVV\^WVVVj_J|| 


-  preheating  coil 


>-  series  resistance 

stage  III  io60  W 
stage  II  #J60  W 
stage  I      •    60  W 

temperature 


stage  III 


stage  II 


stage  I 


Fig.  6     CIRCUIT  DIAGRAM  OF  ELECTRIC  BLANKET  «me 

WITH   PRE-SELECTED  TEMPERATURE  CONTROL 


i  i  i     ' '"  n i,iiii 


overflow  pipe 

temperature 
control  tube 


coiled  tubular 
heating  element 


inlet  pipe 


I      t 

Fig.  7a     SECTION  THROUGH  A  SMALL  STORAGE   HEATER 


temperature  selector  switch  spring 


actuating  lever 


mounting 


bimetallic  strip 


Fig.  7b     TEMPERATURE  CONTROL  DEVICE  OF  Fig.  7a 


307 


THERMAL   ELECTRIC   DOMESTIC  APPLIANCES 
(continued) 

A  different  temperature  control  device  for  hot-water  storage  heaters  is  illustrated 
in  Fig.  8.  It  is  installed  in  a  protective  tube  beside  the  heating  element  and  in  close 
thermal  communication  with  the  hot  water.  Its  principal  component  is  an  Invar  rod 
(cf.  page  304)  which  is  fixed  to  an  expansion  tube.  When  it  is  heated,  this  tube  expands, 
so  that  its  end  moves  in  relation  to  the  end  of  the  rod.  This  movement  is  transmitted 
through  a  lever  mechanism  to  a  mercury  tube  switch  which  tilts  at  a  pre-set  tempera- 
ture and  thus  switches  off  the  heating  element. 

In  a  flow  heater  (geyser)  the  water  is  not  heated  until  just  before  it  is  actually 
needed.  An  appliance  of  this  kind  must  heat  the  water  very  rapidly  and  must  there- 
fore have  a  very  considerable  heating  capacity  (about  12  kW,  as  compared  with  2  kW 
for  a  small  storage  heater).  See  Fig.  9. 

Electric  boilers  differ  from  storage  heaters  more  particularly  in  having  no  thermal 
insulation.  In  this  type  of  appliance,  too,  the  water  is  heated  only  a  short  time  before 
it  is  actually  required.  Once  heated,  it  must  be  used  quickly,  for  otherwise  unecon- 
omical^ large  heat  losses  will  occur.  These  appliances  are  relatively  cheap  and  are 
moreparticularly  suitable  in  cases  where  hot  water  is  needed  only  at  particular  times. 

A  wide  range  of  electric  appliances  for  room  heating  purposes  has  also  been 
developed.  Wall-mounted  (Fig.  1 1)  and  portable  electric  radiant  heaters  emit  power- 
ful heat  rays  which  exercise  their  effect  within  a  relatively  small  distance.  The  radiating 
unit  comprises  a  parabolically  curved  reflector  in  whose  line  of  focus  a  heating  element 
is  mounted.  This  reflector,  more  particularly  if  it  is  of  the  adjustable  type,  directs  the 
heat  rays  in  the  desired  direction.  A  heater  of  this  kind  does  not  efficiently  heat  up 
any  significant  volume  of  air.  It  has  an  effective  "range"  of  only  a  few  feet,  and  is  used 
chiefly  for  auxiliary  heating  purposes  (in  bathrooms,  bedrooms,  etc.).  More  efficiently 
"space  heating"  is  provided  by  the  fan  heater  (Fig.  10).  In  this  appliance  the  air  drawn 
in  by  the  fan  is  passed  over  a  system  of  heating  coils  and  then  discharged  into  the 
room.  A  bimetallic  cut-out  is  usually  provided  as  a  safeguard  against  overheating, 
more  particularly  if  the  fan  fails  to  perform  its  proper  function  or  if  the  free  discharge 
of  air  is  obstructed. 


308 


expansion  tub* 
Invar  rod 

switched  off 


Fig.  8      TEMPERATURE  CONTROLLER  FOR 
HOT-WATER  STORAGE  HEATERS 


motor 


bar 

heating  elements 


thermal  insulation 


heating 

element 


hot  water  ■* " 


p  -¥ 


draining  valve 


' •—  cold  water 


Fig.  9     FLOW  HEATER 


Fig.   10     FAN  HEATER 


heating  element 


pull  switch 


|  parabolic  reflector 

Fig.   11     RADIANT  HEATER 


309 


REFRIGERATORS 

Refrigerators  lower  the  temperature  inside  them  by  extracting  heat  from  the 
interior.  Two  laws  of  physics  are  utilised  in  achieving  this:  1.  The  boiling  point  of  a 
liquid,  i.e.,  the  temperature  at  which  it  is  turned  into  vapour,  depends  on  the  ambient 
pressure.  Thus  at  a  pressure  of  1  atmosphere  (normal  atmospheric  pressure),  water 
boils  at  100°  C,  but  at  a  pressure  of  0.1  atmosphere  it  will  boil  at  only  46°  C.  This 
means  that,  conversely,  water  vapour  of,  say  50°  C  and  0.1  atmosphere  pressure  can 
be  condensed,  i.e.,  converted  back  into  liquid  water,  simply  by  increasing  the  pressure 
to,  for  example,  1  atmosphere.  2.  On  passing  from  the  liquid  to  the  vaporous  state, 
every  liquid  absorbs  heat  and  subsequently  gives  off  this  heat  again  on  condensing. 
If  we  choose  a  liquid  whose  boiling  point  at  normal  atmospheric  pressure  is  below  the 
low  temperature  that  we  wish  to  obtain,  such  a  liquid  will  already  evaporate  ("boil") 
at  that  low  temperature  and  will  absorb  heat  while  it  does  so.  This  heat  is  extracted 
from  the  surroundings.  Now  if  the  vapour  formed  in  this  way  is  compressed,  it  will 
condense  even  at  ordinary  room  temperature  because  the  higher  pressure  produced 
by  compression  is  associated  with  a  higher  boiling  point.  On  condensing,  it  gives 
off  heat.  If  the  pressure  is  then  reduced  back  to  normal,  the  cycle  can  be  repeated.  In 
order  to  obtain  the  desired  effect,  so-called  refrigerants  are  employed  (these  are 
liquids  with  low  boiling  points  or  liquefied  gases,  e.g.,  ammonia,  ethyl  chloride  or 
Freon).  Fig.  1  shows  the  cycle  of  operations :  the  heat  needed  for  evaporation  of  the 
refrigerant  is  extracted  from  the  refrigerating  compartment,  so  that  the  temperature 
inside  the  latter  goes  down.  Next,  the  refrigerant  is  condensed,  giving  off  heat  in  the 
process,  and  then  made  to  evaporate  again. — There  are  two  kinds  of  refrigerator : 

Compression  refrigerator  (Figs.  2  and  3) :  The  refrigerant,  which  is  under  low  pres- 
sure, is  evaporated  in  the  evaporator.  The  latter  is  a  coiled  pipe  installed  in  the  freezer 
compartment.  The  evaporation  lowers  the  temperature  in  the  refrigerating  com- 
partment. A  small  compressor  draws  away  the  vapour,  compresses  it,  and  passes 
it  to  a  condenser,  where  it  parts  with  its  heat.  As  a  result  of  the  combination  of 
increased  pressure  and  loss  of  heat,  the  refrigerant  condenses.  Finally,  the  now 
liquid  refrigerant  is  expanded  to  the  lower  pressure  and  is  returned  to  the  evaporator. 
The  temperature  inside  the  refrigerator  is  regulated  by  a  thermostat  (see  page  26) 
which  switches  the  compressor  motor  on  and  off  through  a  relay  (see  page  112). 

Absorption  refrigerator  (Fig.  4):  The  absorption  refrigerator  operates  without  a 
compressor.  The  pressure  is  built  up  in  a  so-called  boiler  or  generator,  which  is 
usually  heated  by  electricity  and  is  filled  with  water  containing  a  high  concentration 
of  dissolved  ammonia.  When  this  solution  is  heated,  the  ammonia  is  driven  off  as 
vapour  and  the  water  remains  behind.  As  this  ammonia  evaporation  continues,  the 
pressure  rises  until  it  is  high  enough  to  cause  the  ammonia  vapour  to  condense  in 
the  condenser.  Just  as  in  the  compression  refrigerator,  the  liquid  is  then  expanded  by 
means  of  a  special  valve  and  thereupon  evaporates  again,  absorbing  heat  (from  the 
interior  of  the  refrigerator)  in  doing  so.  The  water  which  remains  behind  in  the  boiler 
after  most  of  its  ammonia  has  been  driven  out,  and  which  is  still  very  hot,  is  passed 
through  a  heat  exchanger  in  which  it  gives  off  some  of  its  heat.  It  then  goes  to  the 
absorber,  where  it  re-absorbs,  and  becomes  saturated  with,  the  pure  ammonia  vapour 
coming  from  the  evaporator.  The  ammonia  solution  formed  in  this  way  is  pumped 
back  through  the  heat  exchanger,  where  it  absorbs  heat  from  the  hot  water  flowing 
from  the  boiler,  to  the  boiler  by  a  small  circulation  pump.  The  cycle  of  events  then 
starts  all  over  again. 


310 


Fig.   1      CIRCULATION  OF 
THE   REFRIGERANT 


refrigerant  is  condensed, 
giving  off  heat 


vapour  at  low  pressure 


vapour  at  high  pressure 


condensation, 
heat  given  off 
at  high  pressure 


liquid  under 

low  pressure        "^^^^^Ji^^^^^^~^ liquid  under  high  pressure 

Fig.  2     OPERATING  PRINCIPLE  OF  COMPRESSION   REFRIGERATOR 


m 


evaporator 


2> 


expansion  valve 


I        t 


condenser 


absorber 


compressor 
Fig.  3     COMPRESSION   REFRIGERATOR 


circulation  pump 

heat  excharu 


exchanger  -^IA"^  '^- 


Fig.  4     ABSORPTION   REFRIGERATOR 


311 


VACUUM  CLEANER 

A  modern  vacuum  cleaner  develops  its  suction  by  means  of  a  fan  which  discharges 
a  powerful  stream  of  air  from  the  rear  end  of  the  casing.  This  sets  up  a  powerful 
inflowing  current  of  air  which  carries  along  any  dust  particles  from  the  carpet  or 
floor  to  which  the  suction  nozzle  is  applied.  The  fan  is  usually  driven  by  a  small  high- 
speed universal  motor  (i.e.,  a  motor  which  can  be  worked  either  on  alternating  current 
or  direct  current).  The  fan  has  a  large  number  of  blades  set  at  an  angle.  Their  rotation 
sets  up  a  flow  of  air  in  the  axial  direction  (Fig.  1).  The  air  stream  is  passed  through  a 
filter  in  which  the  dust  is  precipitated  and  collected  without  appreciably  obstructing 
the  flow. 

Many  vacuum  cleaners  have  bag-type  filters  (Fig.  3)  through  which  the  air  passes 
from  the  inside  to  the  outside,  the  dust  being  collected  in  the  bag,  which  has  to  be 
emptied  from  time  to  time.  The  disadvantage  is  that  the  suction  power  gradually 
diminishes  because  of  the  increasing  air  flow  resistance  as  the  bag  fills  up  with  dust. 
In  the  arrangement  illustrated  in  Fig.  2  this  disadvantage  is  obviated.  Here  the  dust 
is  precipitated  in  the  dust  collecting  chamber  in  front  of  the  filter.  This  system  is  used 
more  particularly  in  good-quality  hand  vacuum  cleaners;  these  have  small  dust 
collecting  chambers,  and  it  is  therefore  essential  that  they  retain  their  suction 
efficiency  unimpaired  for  as  long  as  possible.  In  general,  the  power  input  stated  on 
the  rating  plate  of  a  vacuum  cleaner  does  not  necessarily  provide  a  reliable  indication 
of  the  suction  performance.  A  sufficiently  powerful  airflow  to  carry  along  dust  and 
grit  particles  must  be  set  up.  Such  an  air  flow  can  only  be  induced  by  the  suction 
developed  by  the  fan.  There  are  thus  two  factors  involved :  air  flow  rate  (m3/min.) 
and  suction  (mm  water  column).  These  can  be  plotted  against  each  other  in  a  graph 
(Fig.  4),  whereby  a  flow  rate/pressure  characteristic  is  obtained,  which— depending  on 
the  type  of  fan — may  be  very  steep  or  relatively  flat.  The  suction  performance  is  the 
product  of  these  two  factors.  From  the  graph  it  appears  that  the  suction  is  zero  when 
the  flow  rate  is  maximum,  and  vice  versa.  At  both  these  extreme  points  the  suction 
performance  is  therefore  zero.  For  a  vacuum  cleaner  with  a  straight-line  character- 
istic the  best  performance  is  obtained  in  the  middle,  i.e.,  at  half  the  maximum  suction 
and  half  the  maximum  air  flow  rate.  In  a  well  designed  vacuum  cleaner  the  various 
nozzle  attachments  must  therefore  be  so  dimensioned  and  shaped  that  the  resulting 
performance  is  within  the  suitable  working  range. 


312 


direction  of  rotation 
g.   1      PRINCIPLE  OF  FAN  ACTION 


speed  of  rotation  (circumfer- 
ential velocity  component) 

air  particles 

blade  angle 


velocity  component  in 
axial  direction 


air  outlet 


universal 
motor 


fan  (two-stage) 


mains  switch 


upper  blades 

strengthening 
ring 

lower  blades 


air  outlet 


silencer 


Fig.  2     VACUUM  CLEANER  WITH 

DUST  COLLECTING  CHAMBER 


1400  mm  water  gauge 


Fig.  3     VACUUM  CLEANER  WITH 
BAG  FILTER 


0      0.2     0.4     0.6    0.8    1.0     1.2    1.4  m3/min 

air  flow  rate  >■ 

Fig.  4     AIR  FLOW/SUCTION  CHARACTERISTICS  OF 
DIFFERENT  VACUUM  CLEANERS 


313 


SEWING    MACHINE 

The  stitches  made  by  a  sewing  machine  are  formed  by  two  threads  which  are  inter- 
locked. In  the  vibrating  shuttle  machine  the  upper  thread  is  carried  by  the  needle, 
while  the  under  thread  is  unreeled  from  the  bobbin.  The  descending  needle  penetrates 
the  fabric  and  carries  the  thread  along  (a).  When  the  needle  rises  again,  the  thread 
forms  a  loop  on  the  underside  of  the  fabric.  The  shuttle,  which  contains  the  bobbin  of 
under  thread,  goes  through  this  loop  and  pulls  the  under  thread  along  behind  it  (b). 
The  shuttle  thread  is  thus  enclosed  in  the  loop  of  the  needle  thread.  The  fabric  is  then 
moved  forward ;  while  this  is  happening,  the  needle  remains  stationary  and  the  shuttle 
returns  to  its  initial  position.  This  causes  the  slack  loop  to  be  pulled  tight  and  close 
up,  so  that  the  two  threads  interlock  in  the  middle  of  the  fabric  (c).  When  the  forward 
movement  of  the  fabric  has  ceased,  the  operation  is  repeated  (d).  This  method  pro- 
duces the  lock  stitch,  which  forms  a  strong  but  rather  rigid  seam  with  no  "give"  in  it. 

A  chain-stitch  sewing  machine  produces  seams  having  greater  resilience.  This 
machine  works  with  only  one  thread,  which  is  linked  at  the  underside  of  the  fabric 
by  means  of  a  gripper  hook  (e  and  0-  A  variant  of  this  stitch  is  the  overcasting  stitch 
which  enwraps  the  edge  of  the  material. 


thread    needle     cloth 


;ge< 


point  of  hook 


314 


A  o— 


thread  take-up 
lever 


drive  for  needle  and 
thread  take-up  lever 


chain  drive 


stitch  adjustment 
eccentric  rod 


needle  arm 


feed  dog 


feed  dog  lifting  shaft 


shaft  for  feed  dog  advance 
DRIVING  MECHANISM  OF  A  SEWING  MACHINE 


In  modern  domestic  sewing  machines  the  so-called  rotary  hook  is  frequently 
employed.  This  type  of  machine  functions  as  follows.  The  needle  descends  through  the 
fabric,  and  the  point  of  the  hook  advances  to  meet  the  needle  (g).  The  return  move- 
ment forms  the  loop,  and  the  point  of  the  hook  enters  it  (h).  The  hook  enlarges  the 
loop,  the  front  of  which  is  held  in  a  recess  in  the  bobbin  case  (i),  while  the  hook  pulls 
away  the  other  side  of  the  upper  thread  loop  over  the  bobbin  case  (k).  The  loop  slips 
off  the  point  of  the  hook,  while  the  thread  take-up  lever  (see  illustration  below)  pulls 
the  excess  thread  up  again  (1).  During  the  unwinding  of  the  thread,  the  side  of  the 
loop  that  was  held  in  the  recess  is  released  and  the  loop  is  pulled  tight  (m). 

The  present-day  domestic  sewing  machine  is  usually  driven  by  an  electric  motor 
through  a  chain  drive.  The  rotary  motion  is  transmitted  through  the  top  shaft  to  the 
crank  drive  for  the  thread  take-up  lever.  In  addition,  the  bottom  shaft  (rotary  hook 
drive  shaft)  is  driven  by  a  chain  from  the  top  shaft.  An  eccentric  cam  mounted  on  the 
top  shaft  actuates  eccentric  rods  and  thus  drives  the  feed  mechanism  under  the  base 
plate  whereby  the  fabric  is  moved  forward.  The  length  of  the  stitch  can  be  adjusted 
by  means  of  the  stitch  regulator.  The  stitch  is  made  longer  or  shorter  by  varying 
the  eccentric  stroke  and  thus  varying  the  amount  of  rotation  that  the  feed  motion 
shaft  undergoes  at  each  stroke. 


315 


INCANDESCENT   LAMP 

An  incandescent  lamp  comprises  an  electrical  conductor  through  which  a  current 
is  passed  which  causes  it  to  glow  at  white  heat.  The  conductor  is  usually  a  wire,  or 
filament,  which  is  carried  on  a  glass  mount  and  whose  ends  are  welded  to  thicker 
support  wires  (leads)  through  which  the  current  is  supplied  to  the  filament.  In  order 
to  prevent  oxidation  (burning  away),  of  the  filament  by  exposure  to  air,  it  is  enclosed 
in  a  glass  bulb,  which  is  sealed  together  with  the  mount.  The  lead-in  wires  are  sealed 
into  the  glass.  The  bulb  is  either  evacuated,  i.e.,  a  vacuum  is  formed  inside  it,  or  it  is 
filled  with  a  neutral  gas  or  gas  mixture  (e.g.,  nitrogen  and  argon).  The  filaments 
used  in  the  early  incandescent  lamps  were  made  of  carbon.  As  it  was  not  possible  to 
raise  the  temperature  of  such  filaments  to  white  heat  without  seriously  shortening 
the  service  life  of  the  lamps,  the  light  they  gave  was  rather  dim.  For  this  reason  carbon 
filaments  were  abandoned  in  favour  of  metal  filaments.  A  suitable  metal  for  the  pur- 
pose was  tungsten,  which  has  a  high  melting  point  and  can  be  heated  to  3000°  C. 
Tungsten  is  obtained,  from  its  ore,  in  the  form  of  a  black  powder,  which  is  then  pro- 
cessed, by  sintering  at  about  1000°  C  in  a  neutral  gas  atmosphere,  into  pencil-size 
rods.  The  material  is  homogenised  by  hammering  and  stretched  to  rods  about  18  in. 
long  and  ^  in.  in  diameter.  Further  treatment  is  effected  by  drawing  (p.  44,  vol.  1 1)., 
The  drawing  dies  consist  of  pierced  diamonds,  by  means  of  which  it  is  possible  to 
produce  tungsten  wire  down  to  about  j^q  mm  (0.0004  in.)  diameter.  Some  idea  of  the 
extreme  thinness  of  such  wire  is  conveyed  by  the  fact  that  nearly  200  miles  of  y^o  mfn 
wire  can  be  produced  from  1  lb.  of  tungsten.  These  extremely  thin  wires  are  then 
formed  into  doubly  coiled  (coiled-coil)  filaments  which  are  secured  to  the  mount  in 
the  manner  described  above.  The  total  length  of  the  filament  wire  in  a  15- watt  lamp 
is  about  0.75  m  (30  in.);  the  first  coil  has  about  3000  turns;  this  coiled  wire  is  then 
coiled  in  100  larger  turns,  so  that  the  overall  length  of  the  filament  is  reduced  to 
about  3  cm  (I5  in.).  The  sealed  bulb  of  the  lamp  is  cemented  into  a  metal  base,  which 
may  be  of  various  types,  the  commonest  being  the  bayonet  type  and  the  screw  type. 
The  bayonet  base  is  cylindrical  in  shape,  with  two  small  pins  projecting  from  the 
sleeve  to  engage  lock  slots  in  the  lamp  socket ;  the  two  lead-in  wires  terminate  at 
two  metal  contacts  at  the  foot  of  the  base.  In  the  screw-type  lamp  (see  illustration) 
one  wire  is  connected  to  an  insulated  central  metal  contact  plate  at  the  foot,  while 
the  other  is  connected  to  the  screw-threaded  metal  side  of  the  base. 


316 


metal  plate 

insulating  plate 
lamp  base 


glass  mount 


support  wires 


foot  contact 

screw  thread 
lamp  socket 


filament 


bulb 


317 


FLAT-IRON 


The  modern  electric  iron  comprises  a  sole  plate,  an  intermediate  plate,  a  cover 
with  handle,  an  electric  heating  element,  a  selector  disc,  and  a  glow  lamp.  By  means 
of  the  selector  device  the  temperature  can  be  set  to  values  suitable  for  different 
fabrics  (nylon,  rayon,  silk,  wool,  cotton,  linen).  This  adjustment  is  achieved  by  means 
of  a  thermostat.  The  three-wire  A.C.  connection  comprises  an  earthed  safety  wire 
The  heating  element  is  shown  in  red  in  the  accompanying  diagram.  The  current  goes 
through  the  element,  the  outer  contact  spring  and  contact  pin,  the  inner  contact 
spring  and  contact  pin,  the  connecting  rod,  and  the  flexible  metal  strip. 

When  the  selector  dial  is,  for  example,  set  to  "linen",  the  glow  lamp  lights  up,  and 
the  current  heats  the  heating  element  to  the  required  temperature.  The  lamp  then 
goes  out.  The  iron  is  thereafter  kept  at  constant  temperature  by  the  thermostat.  For 
example,  when  the  iron  cools  a  little,  the  temperature  of  the  freely  movable  inter 
mediate  plate,  to  which  the  thermostat  is  attached,  also  goes  down.  As  a  result  of  this 
the  intermediate  plate  contracts  and  causes  the  thermostat  strip,  which  is  made  ol 
Invar  (a  nickel-iron  alloy  with  a  very  small  coefficient  of  thermal  expansion,  so  that  it 
hardly  expands  or  contracts  due  to  temperature  changes),  to  buckle  outwards  and 
push  the  connecting  rod  against  the  inner  contact  spring  thrusts  the  latter  against 
the  outer  contact  spring,  so  that  the  circuit  is  restored  and  the  heating  element 
switched  on  again.  The  glow  lamp  also  lights  up.  When  the  pre-set  ironing  tempera- 
ture has  been  reached  again,  the  thermostat  causes  the  contacts  to  separate  and 
thus  break  the  circuit.  The  glow  lamp  is  thereby  also  switched  off.  The  switching 
on  and  off  of  the  lamp  indicates  that  the  thermostat  is  functioning  and  automatical!) 
keeping  the  temperature  constant.  Depending  on  the  setting  of  the  selector  dial,  the 
heating  element  is  switched  on  and  off  at  a  higher  or  lower  temperature.  Rotation  of 
the  disc  moves  the  rod  of  ceramic  material  in  the  axial  direction.  The  outer  contact 
spring  is  so  installed  that  it  tends  always  against  the  inner  contact  spring.  When  the 
iron  heats  up,  and  the  Invar  strip  consequently  elongates,  the  outer  spring  follows 
the  inner  spring  until  its  end  encounters  the  ceramic  rod.  This  causes  the  contacts 
to  separate.  The  farther  forward  this  rod  protrudes,  the  sooner  this  occurs,  i.e.,  the 
lower  the  temperature  at  which  the  heating  element  is  switched  on  and  off.  A 
thermostat  of  this  kind  controls  the  temperature  to  within  about  10°  C  accuracy. 


318 


selector  disc  cove 


transmission 
heating  element  cover 


intermediate  plate 


connecting  rod 


nsulator 


thermostat 
(Invar  strip) 


current  path  and  electric 
heating  element 


short 

connecting 

strip 


electric  heating  element 


earth  connection 


319 


MATCH 

In  the  manufacture  of  safety  matches,  softwood  logs  (e.g.,  poplar)  are  peeled  into  a 
thin  continuous  shaving,  or  veneer,  about  yg  mcn  thick  (veneer  process).  The  ribbon 
of  wood  is  then  cut  up  into  splints  at  a  rate  of  about  two  million  per  hour.  These 
splints  are  soaked  in  a  bath  of  sodium  silicate,  amonium  phosphate  or  sodium  phos- 
phate and  then  dried.  This  impregnation  prevents  afterglow.  Next,  the  splints  are 
fed  into  a  continuous  match  machine  in  which  the  splints,  standing  on  end  in  wide 
belts,  are  passed  through  a  paraffin  bath,  which  treatment  aids  ignition.  Next  the 
machine  dips  the  ends  of  the  matches  in  a  liquid  composition  which  becomes  the 
striking  head  when  dry.  This  composition  consists  of  the  oxygen  carrier  (potassium 
chlorate,  lead  oxide,  potassium  chromate,  manganese  dioxide,  etc.),  the  inflammable 
ingredient  (sulphur,  etc.),  frictional  additives  (powdered  glass),  colouring  matter,  and 
binding  agents  (dextrin,  gums).  The  striking  surface  on  the  matchbox  consists  of 
powdered  glass,  red  phosphorus,  colouring  matter,  and  binding  agents. 

Safety  matches  are  so  called  because  they  can  be  ignited  only  by  friction  against  the 
striking  surface  of  the  box.  On  the  other  hand,  there  are  universal  matches  which  have 
heads  of  such  composition  that  they  can  be  lit  by  striking  them  on  any  friction  surface. 
The  heads  of  such  matches  have  a  somewhat  different  chemical  composition  from 
ordinary  safety  matches.  The  round  wooden  matches  manufactured  in  America  have 
two-colour  heads  and  are  produced  by  a  double  dipping  process.  The  large  bulb  of 
the  match  consists  of  mainly  inert  substances,  while  the  "eye"  contains  the  readily 
ignitible  ingredients.  The  bulb  having  the  larger  diameter  prevents  the  sensitive 
"eyes"  from  rubbing  together  after  packing.  Another  American  invention,  now  in 
worldwide  use,  is  the  paper  book  match.  These  matches  are  packed  in  printed 
cardboard  folders  with  a  striking  surface  on  the  outside. 

When  the  head  of  a  safety  match  is  rubbed  against  the  striking  surface,  frictional 
heat  is  generated  at  a  small  area  of  the  head.  The  heat  liberates  oxygen  from  the  oxygen 
carrier  ingredient,  and  this  oxygen  combines  with  the  sulphur  (sulphur  dioxide  is 
formed  in  this  reaction),  whereby  additional  heat  is  evolved,  causing  more  oxygen  to 
be  liberated  and  react  with  sulphur.  The  chemical  process  thus  initiated  by  friction 
proceeds  very  rapidly,  so  that  the  entire  match  is  soon  alight.  The  paraffin-impreg- 
nated splint  also  catches  fire.  The  impregnation  of  the  splint  prevents  it  from  continu- 
ing to  glow  after  the  flame  is  extinguished. 


320 


bark  stripping 


3 


sawing 


arranging 


paraffin  bath  dipping  in 

composition 


drying I     drying 


LJl 


pyj 


arranging 


inn  i-inn  i-ir-n-n-tr-ir-ir-ii— 11— mr i 

filling,  sealing 


1  labelling 

striking  surface 

|j:::::::5:?:?:*y    drying 


packaging 

I 


"P  —  De*—~P       •-Dex  —  Oex 

321 


S  =  sulphur 

Dex  =  binding  agent 

O  =  oxygen 

P       phosphorus 


powdered  sand 
powdered  glass 


MECHANICAL  AND   ELECTRIC  TYPEWRITERS 

The  first  practical  typewriter  by  present-day  standards  was  commercially  produced 
in  America  in  1874.  This  was  the  Remington,  based  on  the  machine  invented  by 
Sholes.  The  mechanical  typewriter  generally  functions  on  the  following  principle: 
when  any  particular  key  of  the  keyboard  is  pressed,  a  system  of  levers  and  linkages 
(Fig.  1)  causes  the  corresponding  type  bar  to  strike  the  paper  through  an  inked 
ribbon.  The  imprint  of  the  raised  type  on  the  type  bar  is  thereby  formed  on  the  paper 
which  is  partially  wrapped  round  the  cylinder  (or  platen).  The  type  bars  all  strike  the 
paper  at  a  common  centre.  Each  time  a  key  is  released  after  being  pressed,  the  carriage 
on  which  the  cylinder  is  mounted  moves  a  certain  fixed  distance  to  the  left  corres- 
ponding to  a  width  of  a  letter.  This  motion  is  arrested  by  an  escapement  mechanism 
(pawl  and  ratchet  wheel)  which  is  briefly  released  each  time  the  carriage  moves  one 
step  to  the  left.  When  the  end  of  the  line  is  reached,  the  carriage  is  returned  to  the 
right  by  the  typist.  This  is  normally  done  by  pusing  a  lever  which  works  the  line- 
spacing  mechanism,  i.e.,  it  rotates  the  cylinder  a  certain  fixed  amount.  Each  type  bar 
carries  two  types,  e.g.,  a  capital  and  a  small  letter.  The  capitals  are  typed  by  pressing 
a  special  key  which  operates  the  cylinder-shift  mechanism  whereby  the  capital  instead 
of  the  small  letter  strikes  the  paper  when  the  key  corresponding  to  any  particular 
letter  is  pressed.  A  typewriter  embodying  this  now  universal  principle  is  known  as  a 
shift-key  typewriter.  The  first  shift-key  typewriter  was  produced  in  1878.  Its  early 
rivals  were  so-called  single-key  machines;  they  had  twice  the  number  of  keys — one 
for  every  character,  whether  capital  or  small  letter. 

An  important  advance  was  the  development  of  the  electric  typewriter,  which  is 
basically  a  mechanical  typewriter  in  which  the  typing  stroke  is  powered  by  an  electric 
motor  drive  (Fig.  2).  The  key  stroke,  the  carriage  motion  and  other  controls  are 
initiated  by  touching  the  proper  key.  The  motor  rotates  a  drive  roller  at  constant 
speed.  When  the  typist  presses  the  key  a  short  distance,  a  cam  (usually  made  of 
nylon)  is  brought  into  contact  with  this  roller.  The  latter  moves  the  cam  along  with  it 
by  friction.  This  causes  the  cam  lever  to  move  back  and  thereby  actuate  the  type  bar. 
All  the  functions  of  the  electric  typewriter  are  performed  on  this  or  a  similar  principle, 
whereby  a  95%  saving  in  physical  energy  expenditure  is  effected,  so  that  operator 
fatigue  is  greatly  reduced.  Another  advantage  of  the  electric  typewriter  is  that  it 
makes  for  faster  and  more  uniform  typing.  All  the  strokes  are  applied  with  equal 
power,  since  they  are  independent  of  the  amount  of  force  actually  applied  by  the 
typist.  Despite  various  refinements  and  improvements  of  detail,  the  basic  functioning 
principle  of  the  typewriter  remained  unchanged  for  many  years  until  the  advent  of  the 
typing-head  system  (see  page  324).  The  so-called  "noiseless"  typewriter  is  a  mechani- 
cal typewriter  utilising  a  special  type  bar  to  reduce  the  noise  of  the  impact  of  the  type 
bar  on  the  paper.  It  is  not,  of  course,  absolutely  noiseless. 


322 


Fig.    1      MECHANISM  OF  A  MECHANICAL  TYPEWRITER 


cylinder  adjustment 


cylinder 


type  bar 
type  bar  rest 


cam  lever  carrier 


motor  (constant  speed) 


Fig.   2     SECTION  THROUGH   AN   ELECTRIC  TYPEWRITER 


323 


TYPING-HEAD   SYSTEM   TYPEWRITERS      IBM   72 

Instead  Of  having  44  type  bars,  a  machine  of  this  kind  has  a  spherical  typing  head 
Of  about  l„  in.  diameter,  provided  with  XX  characters  and  moves  along  the  line  as  it 
types  The  head  is  made  of  nickel-plated  moulded  plastic.  Owing  to  its  light  weight, 
Combined  with  toughness  and  resilience,  it  can  perform  lightning-quick  movements. 
It  can  speedily  be  replaced  by  another  head  whenever  a  different  type  of  lettering  is 
required  for  a  particular  purpose.  The  XX  characters  are  arranged  in  four  rows 
round  the  head  In  tig.  I  the  type  marked  by  a  cross  is  positioned  ready  to  strike  the 
paper  on  the  cylinder.  The  actual  sinking  is  performed  by  a  simple  mechanism.  To 
type  a  character  situated  at  anothci  ol  the  XX  positions  on  the  typing  head,  the  latter 
must  be  appiopi  lately  swivelled  and  tilted  so  as  to  bring  this  other  type  into  the  strik- 
ing position.  These  tilting  and  swivelling  movements  are  performed  by  means  of 
two  steel  band  systems  which  begin  ami  end  at  the  slide  which  carries  the  typing  head 
and  inked  ribbon  holdei .  I  he  lilting  mechanism  provides  lor  four  different  positions; 
the  swivelling  mechanism  has  to  move  the  head  to  22  positions  ( !  1  with  small  letters 
on  the  front;  I  I  with  capital  letters  on  the  back).  To  type  any  particular  character, 

the  machine  must  therefore  select  the  appropriate  position  from  four  tilting  and 

22  swivelling  positions.  This  is  done  by  means  of  a  selector  system  (Fig.  3).  Under 
each  key  is  a  selectOl   level  With  projections  on  its  underside,  tor  each  key  these 

projections  are  arranged  in  a  different  combination.  On  being  depressed  by  the 
key,  the  selectoi  level  is  moved  forward  by  a  rotating  shaft  of  special  shape.  The 

projections  on  the  underside  thrust  against  various  selector  rods  which  operate 
through  a  system  of  SelectOl  Catches  ami  thereby  bring  about  the  requisite  move- 
ments of  I  he  swivel  aims  of  the  steel  band  systems  As  soon  as  (he  selected  character 
is  in  the  sinking  position  lacing  the  cylinder,  the  typing  head  is  momentarily  locked 
so  as  lo  prevent  tilting  and  swivelling.  The  stroke  is  then  delivered. 

In  tins  way  a  typing  speed  o\  I5j  strokes  per  second,  i.e.,  930  per  minute,  can  be 
attained  A  notable  feature  IS  that  the  proper  functioning  ol  the  machine  cannot  be 
upset  by  an  excessively  lapid  succession  ol  typing  strokes  by  the  typist.  If  a  stroke  is 
followed  tOO  quickly  by  anothci  stioke,  the  latter  is  "stored"  until  the  previous  stroke 
has  been  duly  Completed 


324 


typing  head  cap  retaining  spring 


typing  head 


Fig.   1      TYPING  HEAD  AND  CYLINDER  (side  view) 


typing  head 


Fig.  2     TILTING  AND   ROTATING  MECHANISM 


selector  rods 
key  lever 


steel  band  for  four 
tilted  positions 


Fig.   3     SELECTOR  SYSTEM 


upper  ball  socket 
check  plate 
spacer 

swivelling  plate 
pivot  pin 
toothed  segment 


selector  catch 

key  lever  catch 
rotating  shaft 


selector  lever 


325 


CASH    REGISTER 

The  primary  function  of  a  cash  register  is  to  record  cash  transactions  on  a  strip  of 
paper  and  add  up  the  figures.  For  this  purpose  the  machine  is  provided  with  a  setting 
mechanism  from  which  the  figures  are  transferred  to  an  adding  mechanism,  an 
indicator  device,  and  a  printing  device.  The  latter  prints  a  check  strip,  which  remains 
in  the  machine,  and  a  receipt  slip,  which  is  handed  to  the  customer.  A  subsidiary 
function  of  a  cash  register  is  to  serve  as  a  till  in  which  the  money  is  kept.  For  this 
purpose  it  is  provided  with  one  or  more  cash  drawers. 

There  are,  in  the  main,  two  types  of  cash  register  which  differ  from  each  other  in 
the  setting  mechanism  and,  consequently,  in  the  entire  adding  and  recording 
mechanism:  (1)  cash  registers  with  lever  action,  in  which  the  amounts  are  fed  into 
the  machine  by  setting  various  levers;  (2)  cash  registers  with  key  action,  in  which  this 
is  done  by  pushing  various  keys. 

Lever-type  cash  register  (Fig.  1): 

When  the  lever  for  setting  the  amount  is  shifted  to  the  desired  position,  the  amount 
appears  in  a  window  on  the  back  of  the  machine.  At  the  same  time,  a  cog-wheel 
rotated  by  the  setting  lever  sets  the  printing  mechanism  to  the  selected  amount.  In 
addition,  the  setting  lever,  acting  through  a  tension  spring,  shifts  the  adding  segment 
lever  and  the  adding  segment  guide  to  the  working  position.  By  pressing  a  button, 
an  electric  motor  is  started,  which  drives  a  camshaft  in  the  clockwise  direction. 
Cam  1  causes  the  adding  segment  to  engage  with  the  intermediate  cog-wheel  of  the 
adding  mechanism ;  cam  2  and  the  roller  transfer  the  amount  to  the  adding  wheel. 
The  camshaft  is  a  frequently  used  device  for  producing  reciprocating  motions  of 
various  kinds,  depending  on  the  shape  of  the  cams.  The  principle  of  the  cam  action 
is  illustrated  in  Fig.  la.  It  is  also  used  for  working  the  valves  in  internal  combustion 
engines(cf.  p.  188,  vol.  II).With  regard  to  the  adding  mechanism  see  also  page  328. 

Key-type  cash  register  (Fig.  2) : 

When  a  key  is  depressed,  the  electric  motor  is  started  which  drives  the  camshaft 
anti-clockwise.  This  causes  the  block,  which  is  rotatably  mounted  on  the  shaft,  to 
thrust  against  the  sickle-shaped  lever,  so  that  this  lever  rotates  clockwise  about  its 
pivot.  This  causes  the  swivel  arm  to  swivel  until  it  is  stopped  by  the  key  bar;  as  a 
result  of  this,  the  bottom  pivot  of  the  sickle-shaped  lever  becomes  a  fixed  point.  The 
sickle-shaped  lever  is  thus  compelled  to  rotate  in  the  clockwise  direction.  In  doing 
this,  it  carries  the  counting  arm  along  with  it  until  this  arm,  too,  is  arrested  by  the 
key  bar.  Acting  through  the  link  rod  1,  the  counting  arm  moves  the  adding  segment 
into  position.  The  pin  and  segment  1  rotate  the  type  transfer  wheel  and  thereby  set 
the  printing  wheels  in  position.  The  link  rod  2,  attached  to  the  segment  1,  works  the 
indicator  roll  through  the  agency  of  the  segment  2.  The  adding  segment  engages  with 
the  intermediate  cog-wheel  of  the  adding  mechanism.  Then  the  sickle-lever  differ- 
ential opens,  and  the  counting  arm  and  the  swivel  arm  return  to  their  initial  positions. 
The  amount  is  transferred  both  to  the  top  adding  wheel  and  to  the  bottom  sectorised 
adding  wheel.  On  release  of  the  adding  segment,  the  camshaft  rotates  and  performs 
the  transfer  of  the  tens  (cf.  page  328). 


326 


Fig.   1 

SECTION  THROUGH  LEVER-OPERATED 

CASH   REGISTER 


setting  lever 


transmission 
gear  wheel 


adding  segment 
adding  wheel 


»ns  shift 
lever 


ndicator  device 
showing  amount 


connecting  lever 


indication  adjusting  segment 
cams  (cam  plates) 


intermediate 
wheel 


cams         camshaft 


Fig.   la 


Fig.  2 

SECTION  THROUGH   KEY-OPERATED 

CASH   REGISTER 


sickle-shaped  lever 


counting  arm 
pivot  point 

key  bar 


indicator  device 
showing  amount 


sectorised  adding  wheel 


block 


intermediate  wheel 
top  adding  wheel 


camshaft       adding  segment 


327 


CALCULATING    MACHINE 

A  desk  calculating  machine  for  performing  addition  and  subtraction  operations 
comprises  the  cog-wheel  mechanism  and  the  product  register  which  records  the 
result  of  the  calculation.  The  product  register  is  a  counter  mechanism  with  "tens" 
transfer  function.  Multiplication  is  carried  out  by  continued  addition,  subtraction 
by  reversal  of  the  direction  of  rotation,  and  division  by  continued  subtraction.  A 
number  is  fed  into  the  mechanism  by  pressing  keys  on  a  keyboard  and  is  added  to, 
or  subtracted  from,  the  number  already  in  the  product  register.  The  mechanism  is 
illustrated  in  Fig.  1.  Under  the  keyboard  are  ten  racks  (toothed  rods),  each  of  which 
has  on  its  underside  a  pin  which  engages  with  a  groove  in  a  cross-bar,  the  "pro- 
portional lever".  When  the  machine  is  set  to  "addition",  the  rearmost  rack  (as  shown 
in  Fig.  1)  is  immovably  locked.  When  the  handle  is  turned  through  one  revolution, 
the  proportional  lever  is  swivelled  around  the  pin  of  this  rack  to  the  right  and  back 
again.  In  the  course  of  this  operation  the  front  rack  moves  nine  places,  the  next  rack 
immediately  behind  it  moves  eight  places,  etc.  Over  the  racks  are  mounted  as  many 
square  shafts  with  slidable  cog-wheels  as  there  are  places  in  the  product  register. 
Associated  with  each  two  keys  of  the  keyboard  is  a  slidable  cog-wheel  on  the  square 
shaft.  This  cog-wheel  is  moved  by  a  sliding  mechanism.  In  the  neutral  position  only 
the  locked  rack  is  meshed  with  a  cog-wheel.  If,  for  example,  the  key  bearing  the 
figure  3  is  pressed,  this  cog-wheel  is  disengaged,  and  another  cog-wheel  meshes  with 
the  rack  which,  on  actuation  of  the  handle  by  the  machine  operator,  moves  a  distance 
corresponding  to  three  teeth  (Fig.  2).  At  the  start  of  the  forward  motion,  the  coupling 
between  the  product  register  and  the  square  shafts  is  moved  into  position.  As  a 
result  of  this,  in  each  decimal  place  the  counting  wheel  is  rotated  a  number  of  teeth 
which  corresponds  to  the  figure  on  the  keyboard.  If  the  number  exceeds  9  the  counting 
wheel  moves  a  marker  slide  for  the  tens  transfer  operation  (see  below).  The  coupling 
is  disconnected  before  the  racks  reverse  their  direction  of  rotation. 

When  subtraction  is  carried  out,  the  front  rack  is  immovably  locked.  Now  each 
rack  moves  to  and  fro  a  distance  corresponding  to  (9-n)  teeth  instead  of  n  teeth  as  in 
the  case  of  addition.  Instead  of  actually  subtracting  a  from  b,  i.e.,  a  —  b,  the  machine 
performs  the  operation  a  +  (999  . . .  999  —  b).  At  the  end  of  the  subtraction  the  result 
is  increased  by  one  unit.  The  result  a  -)-  (1000 . . .  000  —  b)  is  equivalent  to  a  —  b  on 
the  machine  as  the  addition  of  1000. . .  000  affects  only  the  next  higher  place,  not 
present  on  the  machine. 

In  the  second  half  of  the  revolution  performed  by  the  operating  handle  the  "tens" 
transfer  is  effected.  Eccentric  cams  mounted  in  a  staggered  arrangement  on  a  shaft 
successively  raise  the  "tens"  levers  in  the  product  register,  starting  with  the  units 
place.  When  the  marker  slide  has  been  shifted,  the  "tens"  lever  can  no  longer  slide 
between  the  cog-wheels ;  instead,  it  deflects  to  the  left  and  thereby  moves  the  cog-wheel 
of  the  next  higher  position  a  distance  of  one  tooth.  The  displacements  necessary  for 
effecting  a  "tens"  transfer  are  indicated  by  dotted  red  arrows  in  Fig.  4. 

As  already  stated,  multiplication  and  division  are  carried  out  as  continued  addition 
and  subtraction  respectively.  In  a  multiplication  the  multiplier  is  registered  in  a 
special  register  called  the  revolution  register.  The  multiplicand  is  set  on  the  keyboard. 
The  revolution  and  product  registers  can  be  moved  sideways  on  a  carriage  to  facili- 
tate calculation  with  multi-digit  multipliers.  When  the  product  register  moves  n 
places,  one  revolution  of  the  operating  handle  adds  10"  times  the  number  set  on  the 
keyboard.  In  that  case  the  corresponding  place  of  the  revolution  register  must  be 
reduced  by  1.  Fully-automatic  machines  perform  the  necessary  displacements  and 
terminate  the  calculation  when  the  revolution  register  is  at  zero.  Division  is  per- 
formed on  similar  lines. 


328 


windows  for  the  individual  decimal  places  in  the 
product  register  (for  "tens"  transfer  see  Fig.   4) 


coupling  (connects  product  register 
to  calculating  mechanism  when 
lever  moves  forward) 


proportional  lever 


square  shaft 
Fig.   1      MECHANISM  OF  CALCULATING  MACHINE 


HHtZEHH        LTE         Fi9    2     KEY  "3"   DEPRESSED 

nnnnnninn 


square  shaft 


0      1       i      J 


"tens"  lever 


LAJ  MJ  L2J  LJU  IT)   L8J  L£j  U  J  eccentric  cam 


rack  held 

/    s 

stati 

onai 

y  du 

ring 

D  q 

add 

tion 

a  c 

□  c 

0 

itt 

A 

^ 

1       tj% 

y  % 

/ 

■y 

a 

p    % 

7  M 

\p.     \ 

cog 

wheels 
meshed 


rack 


Fig.  4     "TENS"  TRANSFER   IN 
PRODUCT  REGISTER 


Fig.  3     MOVEMENTS  OF  LEVER  AND   RACKS 
(cog  wheels  not  in  mesh  are  not  shown) 

329 


Print-out  drums  in  a  cash  register,  Injecta  Teufenthal,  Switzerland 

Photo  Roland  Schneider,  Len  Sirman  Press 


c 

U7' 

W 

..^\1 

■  1  in  ii  i' 

r 

vy#  Z>*of*r+Of 

■y/jRr 

1 

3 

Wm 

5j 

J'o/ 

^r^ 

t! 

mBS 

■" 

l^^^^^i^^^^ 

-'.-* 

- 

■HMM 

mmm 


-  •    iXcC 


VA^ 


#  ~«%>#  r 


HOLLERITH    PUNCHED  CARD   SYSTEM 

Punched  cards  (like  punched  tape)  can  be  used  lor  effecting  the  input  and  output 
dI  data  in  mechanised  data  processing.  Such  cards  can  be  sorted  at  rates  of  over 
100,000  cards  per  hour  and  arranged  in  various  ways. 

A  punched  card  is  subdivided  into  columns  whose  rows  contain  the  figures  from 
0to9  Foi  example,  if  the  number  403  has  to  be  recorded  in  the  first  three  columns  of  a 
card,  the  row  4  in  the  first  column,  the  row  0  in  the  second  column,  and  the  row  3  in 
the  third  column  must  be  punched.  The  usual  punched  cards  comprise  80  columns. 
In  addition,  appropriate  holes  for  conveying  non-numerical  code  information  can 
be  punched  in  rows  in  which  the  places  are  not  numbered. 

When  the  punched  cards  are  passed  through  any  of  various  machines,  the  punched 
holes  cause  transmission  of  impulses.  Basic  machines  are  the  punching  machine 
which  punches  data  into  the  cards,  the  sorting  machine  which  sorts  out  cards 
according  to  various  classifications,  and  the  tabulating  machine  which  prepares 
printed  reports  from  the  sorted  cards. 

Figs.  I  and  2  show  the  operating  principle  of  a  sorting  machine.  The  stack  of 
cards  lor  sorting  is  placed  in  the  Iced  hopper  on  the  right,  in  which  to-and-fro-moving 
feed  blades  seize  the  bottom  card  and  push  it  under  the  transport  roller  (Fig.  2).  The 
card  passes  between  a  contact  roller  and  a  scanning  spring.  The  latter  scans  the  rows 
9  to  0  in  the  selected  columns.  In  the  neutral  position  the  sorting  springs  are  close 
above  the  caul  transport  track.  ( 'aids  which  contain  no  punched  hole  in  the  scanned 
column  will  pass  unhindered  under  all  the  sorting  springs  and  fall  into  the  receiving 
box  fo]  imperforated  cauls.  On  the  other  hand,  il  the  column  contains  a  hole,  the 
card  concerned  will  slide  along  under  the  sorting  springs  only  until  the  hole  reaches 
the  scanning  spring.  When  that  happens,  an  electrical  circuit  is  completed  which 
energises  an  electromagnet,  whereby  an  armature,  on  which  the  sorting  springs  are 
resting,  is  pulled  down.  Those  sorting  springs  whose  front  edges  have  then  not  yet 
been  reached  by  the  card  will  thereby  drop  below  the  level  of  the  card,  with  the  result 
that  the  card  slides  in  between  two  ol  these  springs  and  is  thus  delivered  to  the  appro- 
priate receh  ing  box. 

A  stack  ol  cauls  ma\  also  be  sorted  with  regard  to  the  value ofa  multi-digit  number. 
This  involves  several  successive  sorting  operations  (Fig.  3).  First,  the  cards  are  sorted 
according  to  the  figure  in  the  units  column.  Before  the  second  sorting  operation 
takes  place,  the  cards  must  be  stacked  in  the  ked  box  in  the  sequence  of  their  end 
digits  (first  the  end  digit  0,  then  1,  etc.  up  to  l>).  When  the  cards  are  now  sorted  with 
regard  to  the  "tens"  digit,  it  is  thus  assured  that  the  cards  with  the  lowest  end  digits 
are  lowest  down  in  the  relevant  "tens"  box;  the  other  cards  are  stacked  upon  these 
in  the  sequence  of  their  respective  end  digits,  in  the  next  sorting  operation  the  cards 
are  sorted  with  regard  to  the  "hundreds",  then  the  "thousands",  etc.  Thus,  with 
onl\  loin  soiling  operations  10,000 cards  have  been  arranged  in  their  correct  order. 


332 


Fig.  1 


receiving  boxes  sorting 


/////////////////^ 


Fig.  3     SORTING  V\  ITH   REGARD 
MULTI-DIGIT   NUMBEI 


;af 

ERS 


TO 


1       fn 

l-l-UI-l«Mllnhl-l 


9  8  7 


6       5  4  3        2 

units 


1  0 


|    5     |   45    |    37  |    g  |      1  I  I 


9  8  7 


6        5  4  3        2 

tens 


1  0 


first  operation  (units  column): 
cards  lie  in  random  sequence 
in  feed  box 


stacking  for  second 
operation  (tens  column): 
cards  arranged  in  box 
in  sequence  of  end  digits 


333 


DATA   PROCESSING:   PRINCIPLES 

The  term  "data"  in  the  mathematical  and  technical  sense  denotes  any  facts  or 
information,  particularly  as  taken  in,  operated  on,  or  put  out  by  a  computer  or  other 
machine  for  handling  information.  Inferences  can  be  drawn  from  data.  Thus  the 
information  "A  is  of  age"  and  "A  is  a  German  citizen"  leads  to  the  inference  "A  is 
entitled  to  vote",  this  being  so  by  virtue  o(  the  German  election  law.  This  selection 
of  significant  information  from  a  set  of  given  data  is  known  as  "data  processing".  In 
a  more  general  sense  this  refers  to  all  the  operations  performed  on  data  according  to 
prescribed  plans.  These  operations  range  from  the  collection  of  raw  data  to  the  report- 
ing of  the  results  of  calculations  invoh  mg  the  data.  If  a  large  number  of  data  have  to 
be  processed  according  to  the  same  rules,  this  can  be  done  by  machines.  For  a  limited 
range  of  subjects,  am  description  can  be  replaced  by  a  number  of  questions  which  are 
answered  b\  "\es"  or  "no"  (binary  number  system).  With  the  aid  of  a  code  of  this 
kind  it  is  possible  to  represent  and  store  data.  To  this  end,  it  is  necessary  to  have 
components  with  two  readily  distinguishable  conditions.  Depending  on  the  speed 
with  which  the  "yes"  and  "no"  conditions  are  recorded  and  subsequently  retrieved, 
various  devices  are  used  for  the  purpose:  punched  cards,  paper  tape,  magnetic  tape, 
magnetic  cores,  magnetic  drums,  tubes,  transistors,  in  conjunction  with  electric 
impulses.  A  binary  digit,  i.e..  a  digit  in  the  binary  scale  o\'  notation,  is  commonly 
abbreviated  as  "bit".  As  a  basic  unit  of  information  the  bit  is  the  information  con- 
tained in  a  decision  between  "yes"  and  "no".  In  a  data  processing  machine  a  number 
of  bits,  are  combined  into  what  is  known  as  a  "machine  word".  Each  machine  word 
is  stored  in  a  so-called  "stoic  location"  or  a  "register";  the  latter  term  refers  more 
particularly  to  a  device  lor  storing  one  word  at  a  time  while  it  is  actually  being  used. 
Data  processing  means  making  up  a  new  machine  word  in  accordance  with  certain 
rules  from  the  contents  o\  one  or  more  registers.  All  conceivable  rules  for  data 
processing  can  be  built  up  from  a  limited  number  of  simple  connections  such  as.  for 
example,  "and",  "or"  and  "negation".  In  the  above  example,  the  right  to  vote  can 
be  ascertained  from  a  punched  card  index  of  the  population  by  means  of  a  simple 
"and"  circuit  At  the  output  this  yields  a  "yes"  only  if  there  is  a  "yes"  at  both  inputs. 
A  circuit  which  adds  the  contents  of  a  particular  "storage  location"  as  a  binary 
number  to  the  contents  of  a  register  is  much  more  complex,  but  can  nevertheless  be 
built  up  from  simple  connective  circuits.  This  principle  is  not  a  rational  one  for  a 
purel)  mechanical  data  processing  machine  It  is  used  only  for  machines  which 
operate  with  relays,  electronic  tubes  or  transistors.  Circuits  for  the  most  frequently 
occurring  arithmetical  operations  are  pre-mstalled  in  the  machine.  Complex  data 
processing  operations  (eg.  long  numerical  computations)  can  be  composed  from 
these  "basic  instructions"  \  programme-controlled  machine  carries  out  instruc- 
tions in  the  sequence  in  which  these  occur  in  consecutive  storage  locations  o\'  a 
storage  (a  device  for  receiving  and  holding  information)  or  a  punched  tape. 

t  ontinued) 


334 


splitting-op  of  various  items  of  information 
into  elementary  statements 


posi- 

i 

tive 

no 

23 

yes 

M 

22 

yes 

o 

> 

*^ 

21 

no 

-O 

2U 

yes 

01 

1 

the  number  13 
represented  in  the 
binary  system 


married 


of  age 


German 
citizen 


employee 


place 
of  residence 


yes 


yes 


yes 


entry  in  card  index 
of  inhabitants 


l~ 


Li^T I 

data  processing 


entitled  to 
vote 


receives  wage 
tax  card 


yes 


the  number  —618  represented  by  a  pulse  train 

n   .    .    n  n   .    n   .   n 


23         22 


representation  of  the  number  —618 
by  four  parallel  pulse  trains 
the  "+"  sign  is  coded  as  "12", 
the  "— "  sign  is  coded  as  "11" 


2° 


.   n   .    . 

.    .    .    .   n 

.    .    n    .    . 

.   n   .    . 

.    .   n   .    . 

.   n   .    . 

.    .    .   n   . 

j — b~ 

1 


no 

no 

no 

yes 

no 

no 

no 

yes 

no 

yes 

yes 

yes 

elementary  logical  connections  and  the 
usual  symbols  employed  for  them 

ABC 


no 

no 

no 

yes 

no 

yes 

no 

yes 

yes 

yes 

yes 

yes 

no 

yes 

no 

negation 


335 


DATA   PROCESSING:   PRINCIPLES 
(continued) 

Circuits  for  the  elementary  logical  connections  are  the  elements  for  the  building  up 
of  computer  circuits.  The  accompanying  diagram  shows  circuits  for  the  case  where 
"yes"  is  represented  by  a  positive  voltage  pulse,  "no"  by  a  negative  pulse  on  the 
absence  of  a  pulse. 

In  the  "and"  circuit  no  current  flows  in  the  rest  position  (black);  the  output  C 
therefore  has  a  voltage  of  +  20  V,  like  A  and  B.  If  at  least  one  of  the  inputs  A  and  B 
is  given  a  voltage  0  V,  a  current  will  flow  through  the  diode,  and  a  voltage  drop  will 
occur  in  the  resistance  R.  Since  the  diode  offers  practically  zero  resistance  to  this 
direction  of  flow,  C  acquires  the  voltage  0  V.  In  the  "or"  circuit  both  diodes  block  the 
flow  of  current  if  A  and  B  are  both  at  0  V.  If  A  or  B  or  both  these  inputs  are  at 
+  20V,  then  C  is  likewise  connected  to  +20V,  without  the  interposition  of  a 
resistance.  In  the  circuit  for  "negation"  the  grid  of  the  tube  is  negative  in  relation  to 
the  cathode.  The  tube  then  blocks  the  flow  of  current,  and  the  time  pulses  proceed 
undisturbed  via  the  two  conductors  at  the  anode.  When  a  positive  pulse  occurs  at  A, 
the  tube  allows  current  to  pass;  the  time  pulses  are  suppressed  or  greatly  diminished. 
The  input  pulses  of  the  connective  circuits  are  often  not  of  a  form  suitable  for  further 
processing.  For  example,  the  "or"  circuit  gives  —20  V  instead  of  0  V  for  %'no"; 
the  negation  circuit  does  not  entirely  suppress  the  negated  pulses.  So-called 
"triggers"  produce  rectangular  pulses  of  uniform  height  from  positive  pulses  of 
arbitrary  shape.  In  the  trigger  circuit  illustrated,  tube  2  conducts  current  in  the  rest 
position  (black);  tube  1  blocks  the  current,  since  its  grid  is  negative  in  relation  to  the 
cathode;  its  high  anode  voltage  gives  a  positive  voltage  (through  a  voltage  divider) 
to  the  grid  of  tube  2.  When  a  positive  pulse  is  fed  in  at  the  input,  tube  1  will  begin 
to  conduct  electricity  when  a  certain  grid  voltage  is  exceeded.  Its  anode  voltage 
decreases  in  consequence  of  this,  and  through  the  voltage  divider  the  grid  voltage  of 
tube  2  also  becomes  so  low  that  this  tube  now  blocks  the  flow  of  current.  At  the  same 
time  the  voltage  at  the  output  rises.  The  transition  between  the  two  states  of  the 
circuit  is  therefore  effected  suddenly,  so  that  positive  input  pulses  of  sufficient  height 
will,  irrespective  of  their  shape,  produce  sharp  rectangular  pulses  at  the  output.  If 
the  circuit  is  so  arranged  as  to  function  symmetrically,  it  is  called  a  "flip-flop" 
circuit.  In  general,  a  flip-flop  is  an  electronic  device  or  circuit  with  two  stable  states. 
The  circuit  remains  in  either  state  until  the  application  of  a  signal  causes  it  to  change. 
It  consists  of  two  symmetrical  halves,  each  with  its  own  input  and  output  terminals. 
The  activation  of  one  of  the  two  halves  automatically  brings  about  the  deactivation  of 
the  other  half,  thereby  reversing  the  state  of  the  flip-flop.  Thus,  in  a  vacuum-tube 
flip-flop,  as  envisaged  here,  when  one  tube  is  conducting,  the  other  is  cut  off,  and 
vice  versa.  If  the  digits  0  and  1  of  the  binary  number  system  are  associated  with  the 
two  respective  states,  counters  (totalising  devices)  can  be  constructed.  The  output 
pulse  occurring  at  the  transition  from  1  to  0  is  fed  to  the  flip-flop  circuit  for  the  next 
higher  binary  place. 

A  commonly  used  device  for  memory  storage  is  the  magnetic  core,  which  is  a  tiny 
ring  made  of  ferrite,  an  easily  magnetisable  material.  These  cores  are  strung  on 
insulated  wires.  The  cores  can  be  magnetised  in  either  of  two  directions,  depending 
on  the  direction  of  current  flow  in  a  wire.  If  the  direction  of  the  current  is  reversed, 
the  magnetic  state  is  changed.  This  bi-stable  nature  of  the  cores  makes  them  suitable 
for  binary  representation :  a  core  may  be  magnetised  in  one  direction  to  store  a 
binary  1,  or  in  the  other  direction  to  store  a  binary  0.  Each  core  stores  one  bit  of 
information  at  a  time.  The  cores  are  disposed  at  the  intersections  of  a  network  of 
vertical  and  horizontal  wires.  If  one-half  of  the  current  necessary  to  magnetise  a 
core  is  sent  through  each  of  the  two  intersecting  wires  associated  with  any  particular 
core,  only  that  one  core  is  affected.  In  this  way  the  cores  can  be  magnetised  individu- 
ally. The  information  stored  in  the  cores  is  read  by  means  of  the  sense  wire,  which 
passes  through  all  the  cores.  When  a  core  is  switched,  a  pulse  of  current  is  created  in 
the  sense  wire.  Thus,  coded  information  is  stored  by  sending  pulses  through  the 
appropriate  cores.  Reading  is  accomplished  by  detecting  the  effect  of  negative 
pulses  on  the  cores. 

336 


condensers 


X 


20V(OV)^^ 


o — *- 

20  V  diode 


20  V 


(+20V) 

0V         — ( 
AO H- 


4 *— oc 

-20  V 


(0  V) 


BO *- 

ov 


(+  20  V) 


time  pulses 

-ruu-iri,.  |fj|f^ 

-     x   anode 


_ 


20V 
-OC 


R 


20V 


'and"  circuit 


"or"  circuit 


!-TV 


"negation" 


pulse  for  "two" 
transfer 


agnetisation  curve  of  a  ferrite  core 


magnetic  core  plane 


337 


An  International  Business  Machines 
plant  technician  is  putting  together  a  "mechanical  brain  " 

Photo  USIS 


i    J 


'-W 


PROGRAMME-CONTROLLED   ELECTRONIC   COMPUTER 

An  electric  computer  is  a  universal  data  processing  machine.  Large  numerical 
calculations  are  merely  one  of  the  many  things  it  can  do. 

The  accompanying  diagram  shows  the  principal  parts  of  a  computer,  in  which  the 
individual  "bits"  (see  page  334)  of  a  machine  word  are  consecutively  processed  as 
voltage  pulses  (serial  computer).  The  registers  consist  of  chains  of  delay  elements  in 
which  a  pulse  is  delayed  for  a  length  of  time  equal  to  the  time  interval  between  two 
pulses.  From  the  end  of  the  chain  the  pulse  train  returns  to  the  input.  When  the 
last  pulse  of  a  word  has  been  received,  each  bit  can  be  read  from  the  corresponding 
element  of  the  chain.  In  the  working  register  (WR)  an  addition  circuit  is  included, 
through  which  the  pulse  trains  coming  from  the  contents  of  the  working  register  and 
from  the  magnetic  drum  pass  synchronously  and  are  added  together,  bit  by  bit, 
starting  with  the  lowest  binary  digit.  The  accumulator  (A)  accepts  only  eight  binary 
digits;  its  contents  are  increased  by  1  at  each  revolution.  The  computer  functions  in 
two  cycles:  In  the  first  cycle  the  accumulator  determines  which  word  from  the 
magnetic  drum  is  passed  to  the  control  register  (CR).  Some  binary  digits  of  this 
instruction  word,  the  operation  part,  actuate  electronic  switches  in  the  pulse  circuits 
and  thus  determine  the  operations  to  be  performed  in  the  next  circuit.  In  this  second 
cycle  the  eight  lowest  digits  of  the  control  register,  the  so-called  address  part  of  the 
instruction,  determine  the  choice  of  the  storage  locations.  In  the  accompanying 
illustration  the  number  in  the  accumulator  is  148.  In  the  previous  cycle  the  contents 
of  location  148  was  fed  into  the  control  register.  This  instruction  contains  a  pulse  at 
the  position  for  A  and  closes  the  switch  A.  The  address  part  is  75.  At  the  instant  when 
the  location  75  reaches  the  read-write  head  of  the  magnetic  drum,  the  "sector 
selection"  switch  closes  for  the  duration  of  a  word,  and  the  stored  pulse  train,  to- 
gether with  the  hitherto  existing  contents  of  the  working  storage,  passes  through  the 
addition  circuit.  Meanwhile  the  position  of  the  accumulator  has  risen  to  149;  in  the 
next  cycle  the  instruction  "P201"  in  location  149  is  fed  into  the  control  register.  The 
following  instructions  are  additionally  embodied  in  the  accompanying  schematic 
diagram : 

N  :    Resetting  of  the  working  register.  The  cycle  in  the  working  register  is  interrupted 

for  the  duration  of  a  word. 
Tn  :  The  pulse  train  cycling  in  the  working  register  is  written  in  location  n. 
Sn:  Jump  of  the  computer  operation  to  location  n. 

Pn :  Jump  to  location  n,  if  the  contents  of  the  working  register  are  positive. 
D :    Printing  out  a  teleprinter  character  corresponding  to  the  five  lowest  digits  of 

the  working  register. 
L :    The  combination  of  holes  in  the  punched  tape  scanner  yields  the  five  lowest 

digits  of  the  working  register. 

To  be  a  practical  machine,  a  computer  requires  additional  instructions  for  shifting 
the  contents  of  a  register  to  the  right  or  left,  for  reversing  the  algebraic  sign,  etc. 
Separate  instructions  for  multiplication  and  division  can,  if  necessary,  be  replaced  by 
programmes  embodying  additions  only.  More  convenient  are  machines  in  which  the 
decimal  digits  6  to  9  are  represented  and  processed  on  four  parallel  pulse  circuits 
(series-parallel  machines). 


340 


LAYOUT  OF  A  PROGRAMME-CONTROLLED  COMPUTER 


punched  card 
scanner 


y      —  593 


(dLJ© 


teleprinter 


WR 


mmmwm 


21321 


22  21  2° 


<8> 


addition 
r^         circuit 
x 


x       y 


input 
processi 


298 


y      -in 


®@®®©©(D 

T      tHHHr 


m9  \         CR 


2'  o6  22  21  2° 


location    contents       \  i 


74 

-593 

295 

76 

0 

/T® 


L-^LiJlcy 


sector  sel 


«QDIp 

lection  switch  r-^""^ 


146 

N 

147 

A  74 

148 

A  75 

149 

P201 

+iU 


track  selection 


20  V- 


^T 


C 


one 
I    bit- 


time 

IX 


r 


_ 


5       10        15        20       25 


-^    time  in  microseconds 


-••••••- 

delay  of 
one  bit-time 

=  5«s 

5Ms 

5/ts 

.^ 

^ 

> 

15  delay  units 
register  for  the  storage  of  a  pulse  train  with  a  length  of  15  bits 


341 


PROGRAMME    FOR  A   PROGRAMME-CONTROLLED   COMPUTER 

The  exponential  function  y  =  ex  can  be  expanded  into  an  infinite  series : 


ex  =  1  +  x  -\ 


+ 


1.2      1.2.3 


1.2. ..k 


As  the  terms  of  the  series  steadily  diminish  in  value,  the  summation  can  be  terminated 
when  the  last  term  calculated  is  smaller  than  the  number  E  which  prescribes  the 
accuracy  required.  We  shall  consider  a  programme  for  an  electronic  computer  with 
decimal  notation  on  four  parallel  pulse  circuits.  A  machine  word  will  contain  12 
decimal  digits  and  the  sign  digit  (designation  of  algebraic  sign,  i.e.,  plus  or  minus). 
Decimal  fractions  such  as,  for  example,  0.00347  will  be  written  0.347  x  10-2,  and 
for  the  first  ten  places  behind  the  decimal  point  we  shall  use  ten  digits  of  the  machine 
word.  The  exponent  of  the  factor  10  (in  this  example:  —2),  increased  by  50,  is  called 
the  characteristic  and  occupies  the  last  two  places.  The  machine  must  be  able  to 
carry  out  the  following  instructions  (cf.  page  340): 

Bn :   transfer  contents  of  storage  location  n  to  working  register 

Tn :   transfer  contents  of  working  register  to  location  n 

+  n :  add  contents  of  location  n  to  contents  of  working  register 

xn :  multiply  contents  of  working  register  by  contents  of  location  n 

:  n :    divide  contents  of  working  register  by  contents  of  location  n 

V:     make  sign  of  contents  of  working  register  positive 

Pn :   transfer  address  n  to  accumulator  if  contents  of  working  register  are  positive 

Rn :   transfer  address  in  location  n  to  accumulator 

Z :     stop  programme 

The  flow  diagram  yields  the  following  programme  for  calculating  e* : 

Location       Contents       Location       Contents       Location       Contents 


00100 

empty 

00110 

+  121 

00120 

Z(R  100) 

1 

T  123 

1 

T  125 

1 

1.0 

2 

T  122 

2 

B  122 

2 

a 

3 

B  121 

3 

xl23 

3 

X 

4 

T  124 

4 

:    125 

4 

Y 

5 

T  125 

5 

T  122 

5 

K 

6 

B  124 

6 

V 

6 

0.00001  =  e 

7 

+  122 

7 

-126 

7 

empty 

8 

T  124 

8 

P  1106 

9 

B  125 

9 

B  124 

It  is  here  assumed  that,  to  begin  with,  the  independent  variable  x  is  in  the  working 
register.  At  the  stop  the  result  is  in  the  working  register.  This  programme  must  be 
written  on  a  punched  tape  in  the  number  code  that  the  machine  can  utilise  (see 
accompanying  illustration).  In  the  "reading-in"  of  the  punched  tape  the  first  five 
digits  determine  the  switches  for  selecting  a  storage  location,  in  which  the  13  further 
characters  are  then  stored.  The  calculation  of  ex  for  an  individual  value  of  x  can  be 
done  as  follows:  input  of  x  into  the  working  register,  setting  the  accumulator  to 
00101,  starting  the  computer  operation.  The  programme  only  acquires  practical  value 
as  a  so-called  subroutine,  i.e.,  a  selection  of  a  programme  which  is  stored  once  and 
can  be  used  over  and  over  again  during  the  course  of  the  programme  to  accomplish 
a  certain  operation.  A  fresh  instruction  Un,  if  it  is  in  the  location  x,  must  transfer 
the  address  x  +  1  to  location  n  and  set  the  accumulator  at  n  +  1.  As  a  result  of  the 
instruction  Rn  the  jump  back  to  x  +  1  is  then  effected.  Thus,  at  any  position  of  a 
large  programme  the  calculation  of  e"  can  be  initiated  by  U100  as  a  separate 
instruction. 


342 


start  (x  is  in  WR) 


store  X 
put  a  =  x 


puty  =  It  =  1.0  { 


(Y  +  a). 


increase  k  by  1 

1 


(a  •  x/k)  <=oa 


(y«i)— ((,*»! -0    o?)— (no) 


1     gety     1 


stop 


programme 


operation  part        .  . 

r.         address  part 


the  first  five  digits  set  the  the  sign  "." 

accumulator  and  therefore  initiates  the  storage 

the  switches  for  location  of  the  word 
selection 


flow  diagram  for  the  computation  of  e' 


. 

1 

§ 

1 

i 

_TL 


00101 


•    •) 


• ••••    • I 


_n_ 


coding  circuit 


WR;  5  characters  have  been  read,  the  6th 
character  is  being  scanned  and  coded 


•  •      •• 


004440001 230 


z/ 


1 3  characters  inserted 
into  WR 


100 
101 

120 

302 
303 

T 

123 

R 

100 

I 
I 
I 

I 

U 

100 

T 

320 

00303 


BAR        00302 


4Rj-| 00 

|00101 


-B 


effect  of  the  instruction  U 


100 

101 

120 

/'I 

T 

123 

I 

R 

100 

*    1 


I  11 


J 


302 

U 

100 

303 

T 

320 

00303 


| 


effect  of  the  instruction  R  100 


subroutine  jump 


343 


TRANSLATION   PROGRAMME    FOR  A 
PROGRAMME-CONTROLLED  COMPUTER 

For  translation  into  another  language,  a  text  must  first  of  all  be  coded  as  a  sequence 
of  machine  words.  For  example,  one  of  the  numbers  01  to  32  can  be  assigned  to  each 
of  the  32  characters  of  a  teleprinter.  A  word  of  n  letters  will  then  occupy  2n  decimal 
places  in  the  storage  and  may,  in  certain  circumstances,  occupy  several  consecutive 
storage  locations. 

In  this  way  it  is  possible  to  store  ("memorise")  a  "dictionary"  with  entries  relating 
to  the  grammatical  properties  of  each  word.  The  rough  translation  of  a  sentence 
involves  comparing  the  words  read  from  a  punched  tape  with  the  entries  in  the 
"dictionary".  If  the  latter  contains  each  word  in  every  one  of  the  forms  in  which 
it  can  occur,  then  the  process  of  translation  will  consist  merely  in  seeking  out  that 
number  in  the  storage  which  corresponds  to  the  number  read  into  the  machine. 
For  reasons  of  available  storage  space  in  the  "memory"  it  is  more  advantageous 
only  to  store  a  list  of  the  root  words  and  another  list  containing  the  endings  and 
first  syllables.  The  root  word  is  then  sought  as  that  number  which  agrees  in  as  many 
digits  as  possible  with  the  read-in  number. 

The  rough  translation  printed  out  by  the  machine  is  similar  to  what  would  be 
obtained  if  each  word  of  the  text  had  been  looked  up  in  a  dictionary,  except  that  this 
laborious  task  has  been  performed  by  the  machine.  The  translation  then  still  has  to 
be  "licked  into  shape".  However,  the  machine  can  go  further  than  this.  The  "diction- 
ary" entries  stored  in  its  "memory"  can,  by  means  of  distinctive  characteristics  for 
nouns,  verbs,  etc.,  also  take  account  of  the  syntax  of  a  sentence.  For  example,  a 
German  sentence  comprising  a  series  of  qualifying  adjectives  or  adjectival  clauses 
can  be  divided  by  means  of  parentheses,  rather  in  the  manner  of  a  mathematical 
formula.  In  the  German  language  the  sequence  of  noun  and  reflexive  pronouns  cor- 
responds to  opening  a  parenthesis,  while  the  verb  in  its  active  forms  corresponds  to 
closing  a  parenthesis.  In  the  English  translation  these  parentheses  must  be  removed. 
This  can  be  done  by  starting  a  new  section  for  the  storage  of  the  translation  whenever 
the  characteristics  for  noun  and  reflexive  pronoun  occur  in  succession.  When  the 
verb  occurs,  the  programme  is  again  changed  over  to  storage  in  the  previously 
used  storage  section. 

Translation  programmes  require  a  very  considerable  amount  of  storage  space  for 
"dictionaries".  For  this  reason  magnetic  tapes  are  used  as  external  storage  media  for 
the  various  "dictionaries".  To  obtain  the  information  directly  from  the  tapes  would 
be  too  slow,  as  the  tapes  cannot  be  moved  fast  enough  to  give  a  sufficiently  short 
"access  time"  (the  time  interval  between  the  instant  when  information  is  called  for 
from  the  storage  and  the  instant  when  delivery  is  completed).  For  this  reason  those 
"dictionaries"  which  are  needed  at  any  particular  stage  of  the  translation  procedure 
are  temporarily  transferred  to  the  working  storage  (which  may  be  a  magnetic  drum 
or  a  magnetic  core  storage),  in  which  the  information  can  be  very  quickly  located 
(short  access  time). 


344 


text  to  be  translated: 

DER  EINTRAG,  DER  MIT  DEM  GELESENEN  WORT   UBEREINSTIMMT.  WIRD  GESUCHT 


WR 


+ 

2 

3 

1 

5 

1 

8 

2 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

WORT 

coding  of  letters  by  numbers 


reading  programme 


start 


reading  programme  for  one  word 
I       put  i  =  0       l 


seek  ih  positive  word 

in  storage  and 

subtract  from  WR 


(WR  =  0 


\D*@- 


i'h  positive  word  to 
be  added  to  WR 


I 


print  next  negative  word, 
further  negative  words  to 
be  printed  in  parentheses 


increase  i  by  1 


00500 


X 

X 

+ 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

+ 

p 

1 

D 

X 

X 

X 

! 

X 

X 

+ 

W 

O 

R 

T 

A 

R 

+ 

M 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

+ 

4 

- 

P 

O 

O 

R 

1 

- 

N 

W 

O 

R 

D 

- 

S 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

grammatical 
code  numbers 


adjective 


section  of  the  dictionary 
stored  in  the  machine 


flow  diagram  for  the  production  of  a  rough 
translation  by  computer 


rough  translation  of  text  into  English: 

THE  REGISTRATION.  THAT  WITH  TH&  READ  WORD  (TERM.  EXPRESSION) 
AGREES,  IS  SEEKED  (SEARCHED). 


03000 

+  THE  RE 

+  GISTRA 

+  TION, 

+  IS  SEE 

+  KED 

030S0 

+  THAT  W 
+  ITH  TH 
-t-  E  READ 
+  WORD 
+  AGREES 

^" 

noun  —  reflexive 
pronoun 

- — 

verb  (active)  ]  — -_, 

sentence  construction  taken  into  account  by 
interchanging  the  storage  sections  when 
certain  grammatical  code  numbers  occur 


345 


AUTOMATIC   LETTER   SORTING 

Sorting  and  classifying  letters  at  main  post  offices  is  a  laborious  operation  requiring 
a  considerable  number  of  staff  to  carry  it  out.  This  can  be  greatly  reduced  by  auto- 
mation. The  essential  requirement  for  an  automated  sorting  system  is  that  the  machine 
shall  be  able  to  "read"  the  place  of  destination  in  the  address  on  a  letter.  One  way 
to  achieve  this  is  to  provide  the  name  of  each  town  with  a  distinctive  number  written 
before  the  name.  Ideally,  the  automatic  sorting  machine  would  have  to  be  able  to 
"read"  the  number  direct  from  the  envelope,  but  this  is  a  problem  that  has  not  yet 
been  reliably  solved.  Instead,  the  distinctive  number  has  to  be  translated  into 
characters  that  the  machine  can  suitably  distinguish  (coding).  The  code  elements 
employed  for  the  purpose  are  markings  applied  with  a  special  fluorescent  or  mag- 
netisable  paint.  These  are  "read"  in  the  machine,  i.e.,  they  are  converted  into  electric 
pulses  which  are  used  to  control  mechanical  selector  devices  in  the  distributing 
system. 

The  smallest  unit  of  a  letter  sorting  installation  comprises  a  feed  device  for  coded 
and  for  non-coded  letters  respectively,  six  coding  stations  with  pre-distributors  and 
a  distributing  machine  (Fig.  1).  Letters  which  have  already  been  coded  are  automatic- 
ally scanned  and  directly  delivered  into  the  channels  of  the  distributor  belt. 

At  the  coding  station  (Fig.  2)  the  appropriate  code — according  to  the  address — 
is  printed  on  the  envelope.  The  receptacles  of  the  intermediate  stacker  are  swung 
round  to  the  selector  unit,  from  where  they  are  called  for  by  the  coder.  The  empty 
receptacles  swing  back  to  the  refilling  position.  After  the  code  has  been  imprinted, 
the  following  automatic  operations  are  performed :  the  letter  (I)  in  the  code  printer 
is  pushed  by  a  carrier  pin  into  a  receptacle  of  the  pre-distributor.  The  letter  in  the 
reading  position  (II)  is  brought  within  reach  of  the  carrier  pin  by  the  rotation  of  a 
star  rotor,  which  pin  conveys  it  to  the  printing  unit.  The  receptacle  on  the  vertical 
conveyor  opens,  and  another  letter  (III)  drops  into  the  reading  position.  The  letter 
IV  is  passed  from  the  selector  unit  to  the  receptacle ;  the  selector  unit  then  picks  up 
another  letter  by  suction. 

The  receptacles  of  the  pre-distributor  have  destination  stores  which  control  the 
opening  action  of  the  receptacles.  The  latter  are  swung  down  and  allow  their  contents 
to  drop  into  one  of  the  ten  ducts  (depending  on  the  destination  of  the  letter  concerned) 
whence  they  are  delivered  to  the  appropriate  receiving  boxes. 

From  these  boxes  the  letters  are  delivered  to  the  intermediate  stackers  of  the  dis- 
tributing machine  (Fig.  3),  in  which  a  ring  of  receptacles  and  a  ring  of  boxes  rotate 
in  opposite  directions.  The  distributed  letters  are  collected  in  these  rotating  boxes. 
To  each  receptacle  is  assigned  an  adjustable  destination  marker,  and  to  each  box 
is  assigned  a  fixed  "key"  formed  by  magnetically  controlled  protective-gas  contacts. 
The  letters  from  the  intermediate  stackers  or  the  feed  device  are  fed  individually 
to  the  synchronising  device ;  they  then  pass  through  the  code  scanner  and  are  delivered 
into  the  receptacles  of  the  distributing  machine.  A  code  imprint  in  magnetic  paint 
is  scanned  by  means  of  magnetic  heads ;  alternatively,  an  imprint  in  fluorescent  pain' 
is  scanned  by  a  device  termed  a  photomultiplier  (see  page  140).  The  result  is  fed  into 
an  electronic  translator  which  controls  the  magnetisation  of  the  receptacles.  When 
the  "keys"  and  the  boxes  correspond  to  one  another  in  the  course  of  the  rotation 
of  the  rings  in  the  distribution  machine,  the  protective-gas  contacts  close,  the 
bottom  of  the  receptacle  opens,  and  the  letter  drops  into  the  appropriate  box. 


346 


distributing  machine 


Fig.    1      GENERAL,  ARRANGEMENT  OF  LETTER 
SORTING  INSTALLATION 


intermediate  stacker 


Fig.  2     PROCEDURE  AT 

CODING  STATION 


star  rotor 


distribution 
control 


ring  of 
receptacles 


magnet 


protectivs-gas 
contact 


intermediate 
stacker 


printing  unit        pre-distributor 
cod.ng  stat.on     distributing  ducts  receptacle 


Fig.  3     DISTRIBUTING  MACHINE 


synchronising 
device 


feed  device 


347 


INDEX 


Absolute  zero,  22 

Absorber,  310 

Absorption  refrigerator,  310 

Acceptor  impurity,  98 

Accommodation,  162 

Accumulator,  80 

Achromatic  lens,  178 

Acoustic  resonator,  232 

Active  power,  82 

Additive  colour  blending,  196 

Aerial,  86 

Air-conditioning,  296 

Air  terminals,  270 

Alternating  current,  76,  82,  86, 

88, 254 
Ammonia,  250,  282,  310 
Ampere-hour  meters,  254 
Amplitude  modulation,  88,  100, 

128 
Anamorphotic  system,  218 
Anastigmatic  lens,  178 
Anchor,  244 
Aneroid  barometer,  252 
Angle  valve,  284 
Angular  field,  180 
Anode,  80,  90,  96,  124 
Antenna,  86 
Anticathode,  124 
Antinodes,  240 
Aperture,  188,  202,  204,  206 
Arc,  118 
Arc  lamp,  118 
Armature,  112,  290 
Aspect  radio,  218 
Asphalt,  36 
Astigmatism,  162,  178 
Astronomical  telescope,  170 
Atmospheric  pressure,  252 
Atomic  clock,  250 
Atomised  fuel  oil,  50 
Atoms,  70 

Automatic  cut-out,  116 
Automatic  exposure  control,  140 
Automatic  letter  sorting,  346 
Auto-transformer,  110 
Axial-flow  turbine,  62 


B 

Babcock  and  Wilcox  boiler,  50 
Back-pressure  turbine,  54 
Bacon  fuel  cell,  66 
Balance,  244 
Barkhausen-Kurz  oscillations, 

92 
Barometer,  252 
Base-burner  stove,  300 
Battery,  80 
Beam  scale,  242 
Bell,  290 

Bellows  camera,  176 
Benzine  derivatives,  34 
Betatron,  126 

Between-the-lens  shutter,  184 
Bifocal  lenses,  162 
Bimetallic  spring,  302 


Bimetallic  strip,  26,  122,  304, 

306 
Bimetallic  thermometer,  22 
Binary  digit,  334 
Binary  number  system,  334 
Binoculars,  174 
Bit,  286,  334 

Black-and-white  films,  226 
Black-and-white  television,  254 
Blade  ring,  54 
Block  and  tackle,  264 
Blocking  layer,  96,  98 
Blower,  296 
Blue  shift,  234 
Boiling  plate,  304 
Boilers,  50,  308 
Boiling  point,  22,  24 
Boom,  268 
Box  camera,  1 76 
Bridge  cranes,  268 
Brushes,  78 
Bulb,  316 
Burner,  300,  302 
Buzzer,  290 


Calculating  machine,  328 

Calorific  value,  42 

Camera  shutters,  diaphragm, 

184 
Camera  shutters,  focal  plane, 

186 
Camera  shutters  with  flash 

synchronisation,  184,  186 
Cameras,  176 
Capacitor,  72 
Capacity,  72,  86 
Carbon  dioxide,  20 
Carbon  dioxide  snow,  20,  24 
Carbon  microphone,  130 
Carbon  monoxide,  42 
Carbon  tetrachloride,  20 
Carrier  wave  communication 

128 
Cash  register,  326 
Catalyctic  hydration,  48 
Catalyst,  48 

Cathode,  80,  90,  96,  124,  166 
Cathode  rays,  124 
Cathode  ray  tube,  144 
Cavity  resonator,  86,  94 
Centigrade  scale,  22 
Central  heating,  274,  278 
Centralised  air-conditioning 

systems,  296 
Centrifugal  compressor,  298 
Centrifugal  force,  16 
Centrifugal  pump,  30 
Centrifuge,  16 
Chain  grate,  50 
Chain  reaction,  68 
Chain  stitch,  314 
Channel,  128 
Characteristic  curve,  90 
Chopper,  210 
Chromatic  aberration,  178 


Chrominance,  198 
Cine  camera,  214 
CinemaScope,  218 
Cine  projector,  216 
Cinerama,  194,  220 
Circle  of  confusion,  192 
Circular  accelerator,  1 26 
Clocks,  244 
Coal  gas,  42 
Coaxial  cable,  1 28 
Cock,  284 

Coiled-coil  filament,  316 
Coincident  image,  212 
Coke,  42 
Colour  film,  202 
Colour  filters,  196 
Colour  negative,  203 
Colour  photography,  202 
Colour  positive,  202 
Colour  printing,  196 
Colour-separation  negatives, 

196 
Colour  television,  198,  200 
Commutator,  76 
Compatible  colour  television, 

198 
Compound  steam  engine,  52 
Compressed  air,  266 
Compression  refrigerator,  310 
Compressor,  298,  310 
Compressors,  32 
Computer,  340,  342,  344 
Concave  lens,  158 
Condenser,  52,  72,  164,  222, 

282,310 
Condenser  microphone,  130 
Condensing  turbine,  54 
Conduction,  262,  280 
Conductor,  106 
Contact  lenses,  162 
Convection,  262,  280 
Convection  heater,  280 
Convergent  lens,  158 
Convertible  lens,  182 
Convex  lens,  158 
Corkscrew  rule,  74 
Coronas,  156 
Crab,  268 
Cranes,  268 
Crank  Press,  28 
Crankshaft,  52 
Crosshead,  52 
Crude  oil,  46 
Crystal  loudspeaker,  104 
Current,  76,  82,  86,  88,  304 
Current  strength,  106 
Curvature  of  image  field,  178 
Curved  mirror,  160 
Cyclotron,  126 
Cylinder,  52 
Cylinder  lock,  288 


Decentralised  air-conditioning 

systems,  296 
Decibel,  228 


349 


Delivery  head,  30 

Delivery  valve,  30,  32 

Delta  connection,  82 

Depth  of  field,  192 

Depth  of  focus,  192 

Detoxicated  gas,  42 

Developer,  226 

Diaphragm  control,  190 

Diaphragm  pump,  24,  30 

Diaphragm  shutter,  182,  184 

Diascope,  222 

Diesel  oil,  34,  36 

Differential  pulley  block,  264 

Diffraction,  124,  156 

Diffraction  grating,  156 

Diffuser,  30,  54 

Diode  valve,  90 

Dioptre,  158,  162 

Dipole,  86 

Direct-acting  thermostat,  26 

Direct  current,  76,  258 

Disc-seal  triode,  92 

Disc  tumbler  lock,  288 

Dissolved  fuel  cell,  66 

Distillation,  14,  36,46 

Distilling  apparatus,  14 

Distilling  column,  14,  46 

Distortion,  178 

Divergent  lens,  158 

Donor  impurity,  98 

Door-closer,  292 

Door  lock,  286 

Doppler  effects,  234 

Double-acting  steam  engine,  52 

Double-action  lock,  286 

Double-lever  jib  crane,  268 

Drum  type  meter,  260 

Dry  cell,  80 

Dry  chemical  extinguisher,  20 

Dry  gas  meter,  258 

Dry  ice,  24 

Dynamic  loudspeaker,  104 

Dynamo,  78 


Earthing,  108 

Eccentric  press,  28 

Echo,  232 

Eddy  currents,  254 

Eidophor  system,  152 

Einstein's  equation,  120 

Electric  arc,  118 

Electric  bell,  290 

Electric  blanket,  306 

Electric  field,  72 

Electric  furnace,  118 

Electric  iron,  318 

Electricity  meters,  254 

Electric  lenses,  150 

Electric  toaster,  306 

Electric  typewriter,  322 

Electrodes,  118,  140 

Electrodynamic  loudspeaker,  104 

Electrodynamics,  74,  76 

Electrolyte,  80 

Electrolytic  meter,  254 

Electromagnet,  74,  290 

Electromagnetic  radiation,  82 

Electromagnetic  relay,  112 

Electromagnetic  vibrations,  92 


Electromagnetic  waves,  82,  86, 

88 
Electron  beam,  144 
Electron  gas,  76 
Electronic  computor,  340,  342, 

344 
Electronic  flash,  210 
Electronic  lenses,  166 
Electron  microscope,  166 
Electron  packets,  94 
Electron-ray  tube,  142 
Electrons,  66,  70,  76,  90,  118, 

126,  140,  142,  146,  152,  166 
Electrophotography,  224 
Electrostatic  lenses,  166 
Electrostatic  loudspeaker,  104 
Electrostatics,  70,  72 
Elevator,  272 
Emission  of  electrons,  90 
Emulsion,  226 
Energy  level  diagram,  98 
Energy  meters,  28 
Entrance  pupil,  174,  188 
Epidiascope,  222 
Episcope,  222 
Equilibrium,  264 
Equipotential  surface,  72 
Escapement,  244 
Evaporator,  14,282,  310 
Everset  shutter,  184 
Exhaust-steam  turbine,  54 
Exit  pupil,  174 
Expanding  universe,  234 
Exposure  control,  190 
Exposure  meter,  190,  194 
Extinguishing  agents,  20 
Extractive  distillation,  14 
Eye,  162 
Eyeglasses,  162 
Eyepiece,  164,  170 


Fan,  298,  312 

Fan  heater,  308 

Faraday  cage,  108 

Farenheit  scale,  22 

Far-sightedness,  162 

Faucet,  284 

Ferrite,  336 

Field-free  space,  108 

Field  strength,  72 

Filament  of  lamp,  316 

Film,  214,  216,  218,  220,  226 

Fire  extinguisher,  20 

Fire-tube  boiler,  50 

Fission,  68 

Fixing,  226 

Flash  boiler,  50 

Flash  bulb,  208 

Flash  gun,  208 

Flashlight  photography,  184, 

186,210 
Flash-synchronisation,  184,  186 
Flash-time  curve,  208 
Flash  tube,  210 
Flat-iron,  318 
Flip-flop  circuit,  336 
Flow  heater,  302,  308 
Flue,  300 

Fluorescent  lamp,  122 
Fluorescent  screen,  148,  150 


Flushing  cistern,  294 

Fly  press,  28 

Flywheel,  52 

F-number,  188,  190,  194 

Foam  type  extinguisher,  20 

Focal  distance,  180 

Focal  length,  158,  164,  170,  180, 

182,192 
Focal  plane  shutter,  186 
Focus,  158,  160,  192 
Folding  camera,  176 
Forced-circulation  boiler,  50 
Fractionating  column,  36 
Fraction  distillation,  36 
Fractioning  unit,  14 
Francis  turbine,  62 
Franklin,  Benjamin,  270 
Freezing  point,  22 
Frequency,  82,  86 
Frequency  modulation,  88,  100, 

128 
Fuel  cell,  66 
Fuel  oil,  34,  46 
Fundamental  vibration,  240 
Fuse,  116 


Galilean  telescope,  170 
Galton  pipe,  236 
Galvanic  cell,  80 
Gas,  40, 42 
Gas-blast  switch,  1 14 
Gas-fired  water  heater,  302 
Gas-filled  rectifier,  96 
Gas  heating,  280 
Gas  meters,  258 
Gasoline,  34,36,46,48 
Gas  turbine,  56 
Gas  wells,  40 
Gate  valve,  284 
Gauss  double  anastigmat,  178 
Generator,  76,  78 
Germanium,  96,  98 
Geyser,  302,  308 
Gigahertz,  82 
Grab,  268 

Gravitational  force,  242 
Gravity  system,  274 
Grid,  106 
Gripper  hook,  314 
Guide  blading,  54 
Guide  vanes,  62 


H 

Haloes,  156 

Harmonic  vibration,  240 

Heat,  304 

Heat  capacity,  262 

Heat  exchanger,  56,  302 

Heating,  274,  276,  278,  280 

Heating  element,  318 

Heating  Pad,  306 

Heat  pump,  282 

Heat  transfer,  262 

Hertz,  82 

High-frequency  radio  waves, 

136 
High-tension  transmission  lines, 

106 


350 


Hollerith  punched-card  system, 

332 
Hollow  waveguide,  94 
Hot-air  turbine  56 
Hot  plate,  304 
Hot-water  heating,  274,  276 
Hydraulic  presses,  28 
Hydrocarbons,  36,  46,  48 
Hydrogen,  42 


I 

Iconoscope,  146 

Idle  current,  82 

Ignition  coil,  110 

Image  converter  tube,  150 

Image  orthicon,  146 

Immersion  heater,  304 

Impeller,  30,  298 

Impulse  turbine,  54 

Incandescent  lamp,  316 

Index  of  refraction,  156 

Indicator  diagram,  32 

Indirect-acting  thermostat,  26 

Induction,  70,  76,  78,  110 

Induction  meter,  254 

Infra-red  radiator,  280 

Inlet  valve,  30,  32 

Interchangeable  lenses,  182 

Interference,  156 

Invar  rod,  304,308,  318 

Ionisation,  118,  126,270 

Ions,  126 

Iron,  electric,  318 


J 

Jet  pump,  30 
Jib,  268 
Jib  cranes,  268 
Joule's  law,  304 


K 

Kaplan  turbine,  62 

Keplerian  telescope,  170 

Kerosene,  36 

Key, 286 

Keyboard,  322 

Key -type  cash  register,  326 

Klystron,  94 

Knife  switch,  1 14 

Kundt's  tube,  232 


Lamp,  316 

Land,  Dr.,  204 

Laser,  94 

Laval  nozzle,  54 

Lead  accumulator,  80 

Leclanche  cell,  80 

Lens  errors,  178 

Lenses,  158,  178 

Letter  balance,  242 

Letters,  346 

Level-luffing  crane,  268 

Lever-type  cash  register,  326 

Lift,  272 

Lifting  capacity,  268 

Lifting  pump,  30 

Light  flux,  208 


Light-gathering  power,  174 
Light  meter,  190,  194 
Lightning  conductor,  270 
Light  quantum,  120 
Lines  of  force,  72 
Lock,  286,  288 
Lock  stitch,  314 
Losses,  1 10 
Long  waves,  100 
Loudness,  228 
Loudspeaker,  104 
Lubricating  oil,  46 
Luminance,  198 
Luffing,  268 


M 

Machine  word,  334 
Magic  eye,  142 
Magnetic  core,  336 
Magnetic  drum,  340 
Magnetic  field,  74,  76 
Magnetic  flux,  74,  110 
Magnetic  lenses,  150,  166 
Magnetostriction,  236 
Magnetron,  92,  94 
Magnification  164,  174 
Magnifying  glass,  164 
Magnifying  power,  164 
Maltese  cross,  216 
Marsh  gas,  40 
Maser,  94 
Matches,  320 

Mechanical  advantage,  264 
Mechanical  presses,  28 
Mechanical  stoker,  50 
Mechanical  typewriter,  322 
Medium  waves,  1 00 
Memory  storage,  336 
Mercury,  252 
Mercury  barometer,  252 
Mercury  switch,  114 
Mercury  thermometer,  22 
Mercury  vapour,  96,  122 
Meters,  254,  258,  260 
Methane,  40 
Microphone,  130 
Microscope,  164,  166 
Millibar-,  252 
Miniature  camera,  176 
Mineral  oil,  34 
Mirrors,  160 
Moderation,  68 
Modulation,  88 
Molecular  oscillator,  94 
Molecules,  14 
Morse  code,  128,  134 
Motion  picture  camera,  214 
Movie  projector,  216 
Moving-coil  loudspeaker,  104 
Multi-stage  centrifugal  pump, 

30 
Multi-stage  compressor,  32 


N 

Natural  gas,  40 

Natural  petrol,  46 

Needle  valve,  284 

Negative-positive  process,  176, 

177 
Neutrons,  68 


Nickel-iron  accumulator,  80 

Nodes,  232,  240 

Noise,  228 

Noiseless  typewriter,  322 

NTSC  system,  198 

Nuclear  reactor,  68 

Nucleus,  70 


O 

Object  glass,  164,  170 
Objective,  164,  170 
Octane  number,  48 
Ocular,  164,  170 
Ohm's  law,  106,  116 
Oil-break  switch,  1 14 
Oil-fired  stove,  300 
Once-through  boiler,  50 
Operating  cycle,  32 
Organ  pipe,  240 
Orthicon,  146 
Orthocromatic  film,  226 
Oscillating  circuit,  86,  88,  92 
Oscillations,  232 
Oscillatory  circuit,  232 
Overhead  transmission  lines,  106 
Overhead  travelling  crane,  268 
Overshot  wheel,  60 


Panchromatic  film,  226 

Paper  book  matches,  302 

Paraffin,  36 

Paternoster  lift,  272 

Pelton  wheel,  60 

Pendulum,  244 

Period, 82 

Petrol,  34,  36,46,  48 

Petroleum,  34,  36 

Phase  displacement,  82,  254 

Phon,  228 

Photocathode,  150 

Photocell,  120 

Photo-conductive  cell,  1 20 

Photo-electric  cell,  120,  194 

Photo-electric  effect,  1 20 

Photo-emission,  140 

Photographic  lenses,  178 

Photomultiplier,  140,  346 

Photon,  120 

Photo-resistance,  194 

Photo-semiconductor,  224 

Phototelegraphy,  134 

Photo-voltaic  cell,  120 

Picture  elements,  144 

Picture  telegraphy,  134 

Picture  tube,  144,  148 

Piezo-electric  effect,  104,  236,  246 

Pilot  flame,  302 

Pinhole  camera,  176 

Piston,  52 

Piston  compressor,  32 

Piston  pump,  30 

Planck's  constant,  120 

Plane  mirror,  160 

Platform  weighing  machine,  242 

Plug  cock,  284 

P-N  Boundary,  96 

Pneumatic  hammer,  266 

Polarisation,  80 

Polarised  relay,  1 12 


351 


Polaroid-Land  colorfilm,  204, 

206 
Portrait  lens,  182 
Potential,  72,  74 
Power  factor,  82,  254 
Preset  shutter,  184 
Presses,  28 
Pressure,  28 
Pressure  staging,  54 
Primary  cell,  80 
Primary  colours,  170,  172,  176 
Printing,  196 
Printing  telegraph,  1  34 
Prints,  176 
Prism,  158,  174 
Prismatic  binoculars,  174 
Producer  gas,  42 
Projector,  216,  222 
Propeller  turbine,  62 
Protons,  68 
Pulley,  264 
Pulley  block,  264 
Pulse  modulation,  1  28 
Pulse  radar,  1  36 

Pumped  circulation  system,  276 
Pumps,  30 
Punched  cards,  332 
Punching  machine,  332 
Pupil,  174 
Push-button  switch,  1 14 


Quartz  clock,  246 
Quart-free  electron!,  98 

Quay  crane,  268 


R 

Radar,  1  36 

Radial-flow  turbine,  62 
Radiant  heater,  308 
Radiation,  262,  280 
Radiator,  274,  276,  280 
Radio  re<  elver,  100 
Radius,  268 
Rangefinder,  21  2 
Raoult's  law,  14 
Rate  "i  iiow  meteri,  260 

Rayleigh  disc,  228 

tiOfl  staging,  54 
Rett  tor,  68 

U  shield,  68 
Real  image,  158,  160 
Reaumur  scale,  22 
Ivi  .,  88,  100 

Rectifier,  96 

Rectifying  installation,  14 
Red  shift,  234 
Refinement,  46 
Reflei  ting  tele*  ope,  170 
Reflection,  156,  160 
Reflex  camera,  176 
Refrai  ting  telescope,  1 70 
Refrai  tion,  156,  158 

Refrigerant,  !  10 

Refrigerator,  310 

Regenerator,  56 
Register,  334 
Relative  aperture,  188 


Relative  humidity,  296 

Relay,  112 

Replica,  166 

Resistance,  106 

Resistance  thermometer,  22 

Resolving  power,  166 

Resonance,  232 

Retina,  162 

Retort,  42 

Reversal  process,  202 

Rim  lock,  286 

Roller  blind  shutter,  186 

Rontgen,  1  24 

Room-heating  stove,  300 

Roots  blower,  298 

Rotary  compressor,  298 

Rotary  hook,  314 

Rotating  impeller  type  meter, 

260 
Rotating  wedge  rangefinder, 

212 
Rotor,  54,62,  78,  298 
Runner,  62 


S 

Salety  matches,  320 
Scales,  242 

Scanning,  144,  146,  148 
Screw  press,  28 
Secondary  cell,  80 
Sedimentation,  16 
Seta  tor,  130 
Selenium,  194,  224 
Self-induction,  86 
Sell  timer,  184 
Semaphore,  128 

li  onductor,  96,  98,  120 
Semiconductor  diode,  98 

Semiconductor  triode,  98 

Sewing  machine,  314 

Shadow-mask  tube,  200 

Shaving  mirror,  160 

Shift  key  typewriter,  322 

Short  circuit,  1 16 

Short-sightedness,  162 

Short  waves,  100 

Shutters,  184,  186 

Shutter  speed,  190 

Shuttle,  314 

Signal  plate,  144,  146 

Sili.  on,  98 

Silver  bromide,  226 

Single-lens  reflex  camera,  1  76 

182 
Siphon,  294 
Slewing,  268 
Slide  projector,  222 
Slide  valve,  52 
Slip-rings,  76,  78 
Slow-combustion  stove,  300 
Slow  motion,  214 
Slime  valve,  284 
Solar  battery,  120 
Sorting  automatic  letter,  346 
Sorting  machine,  332 
Sound  absorption,  228 
Sound  intensity,  228 
heating,  308 

Speaker,  104 
Spectacles,  162 


Spectral  colours,  156 

Spectroscope,  156 

Spectrum,  156,234 

Speed  of  camera  lens,  188 

Spherical  aberration,  178 

Spin-dryer,  16 

Split-image  rangefinder,  212 

Spring  balance,  242 

Squirrel-cage  rotor,  82 

Standard  lens,  180,  182 

Star  connection,  82 

Stator,  78 

Steam  boilers,  50 

Steam  engine,  52 

Steam  heating,  278 

Steam  turbine,  54 

Stereophonic  sound,  21  8 

Stirling  boiler,  50 

Storage  battery,  80 

Storage  heater,  306 

Store  location,  334 

Stove,  300 

Stroboscopic  effects,  1 54 

Stroboscope,  154 

Stuffing  box,  284 

Sublimation,  24 

Subtractive  colour  blending,  177 

Subtractive  process,  177 

Suction,  312 

Suction  head,  30 

Suction  pad,  252 

Superheater  tubes,  50 

Superheterodyne  receiver,  100 

Supersonics,  236 

Switch,  1  14 

Swivelling  wedge  rangefinder, 

186, 212 
Synchronisation,  208 
Synchrotron,  126 
Synthetic  petrol,  48 


Tabulating  machine,  332 

Tap,  284 

Telecommunication,  128 

Telegraph,  128,  134 

Telephone,  130 

Telephone  exchange,  1  30 

TelephotO  lens,  180,  182,  188, 
192 

Teleprinter,  128,  134 

Telescope,  170, 1 74 

Television,  144 

Television,  colour,  198-201 

Television  camera  tubes,  146 

Television  picture  tube,  148 

Telex,  128,  134 

Temperature  measurement,  22 

Terrestrial  telescope,  170 

Thermal  conductivity,  262 

Thermal  electric  domestic  appli- 
ances, 304,306,308 

Thermal  expansion,  26 

Thermal  insulation,  262 

Thermal  plasma,  1  I  8 

Thermal  release,  304 

Thermionic  tube,  90 

Thermocouple,  22 

Thermo-electric  potential  differ- 
ence, 22 


352 


Thermometer,  22 

Thermopile,  22 

Thermo-relay,  112 

Thermostat,  26,  276,  310,  318 

Thickness  oscillations,  104 

Thickness  vibrations,  246 

Three-phase  current,  82,  86,  88 

Time-lapse  effects,  214 

Toaster,  306 

Todd-AO,  220 

Toilet,  294 

Toner,  224 

Tower  crane,  268 

Town  gas,  42 

Transformation  ratio,  110 

Transformer,  110 

Transistor,  98 

Translation,  344 

Transmitter,  88 

Transparencies,  202,  222 

Travelling-wave  tube,  94 

Triggers,  336 

Triode  valve,  90 

Triple  point,  24 

Triplet  lens,  178 

Trolley,  268 

True  power,  82 

Tumbler,  286 

Tumbler  switch,  114 

Tungsten,  316 

Tuning  fork,  240 

Turbine,  54,56,60,62 

Turn  switch,  114 

Twin-lens  reflex  camera,  176 

Two-motion  selector,  144 


Typewriter,  322,  324 
Typing-head  system,  324 

U 

Ultra-high  frequency  vibrations, 

92,94 
Ultra-short  waves,  100 
Ultrasonics,  236 
Undershot  wheel,  60 
Unipolar  conductivity,  90 
Universal  matches,  320 
Uranium,  68 


Vacuum  cleaner,  312 

Vacuum  flask,  262 

Vacuum  tube  rectifier,  96 

Valve,  284 

Van  de  Graaff  generator,  72 

Vane  pump,  30 

Vapour  pressure  curve,  24 

Velocity  staging,  54 

Veneer  process,  320 

Venturi  meter,  260 

Venturi  tube,  302 

Vibrations,  92,  94 

Vibrating  shuttle  machine,  314 

Vidicon,  146 

Virtual  image,  158,  160 

Visual  angle,  164,  170 

Voltage,  82,  106 

Voltaic  cell,  80 

Volumetric  meters,  260 

Volute,  30,62,  298 


W 

Ward,  286 
Warming  pad,  306 
Watches,  244 
Water-boiling  pan,  304 
Water  closet,  294 
Water  gas,  42 
Water  heater,  302 
Water  meters,  260 
Water  tap,  284 
Water-tube  boiler,  50 
Water  turbine,  60,  62 
Water  vapour,  14 
Water  wheel,  60 
Watt-hour  meter,  254 
Wattless  current,  82 
Wavelength,  86 
Weber-Fechner  law,  228 
Weighbridge,  242 
Weighing  machines,  242 
Weight,  242 
Wet  gas  meter,  258 
Wide-angle  lens,  180,  182,  192 
Wide-screen  motion  picture, 

218,220 
Work,  264 

X 

Xenon,  210 
X-rays,  124 


Zero  field  space,  108 
Zoom  lens,  182 


This  book  is  a  production  of 
Edito  Service  SA .,  Geneva 


Printed  and  Bound 
U.S.A. 


II 


~?"4~  ~~  "**  {'  • 


