Bi^-pii 


of  Cal 
1  Regii 
J  Facill 


LlBRAR^f    ^ 

UNIVERSITY  OF      1 
CAUFOr<NIA         I 

SAN  DIEGO.       J 


d) 


cyi^i 


x^  ^ 


7^; 


Cbe  Hutb  S^ibrarj. 


1 30  Copies  only  printed  for  sale. 


Cf)e  Hutj)   ittbrarp. 


A  CATALOGUE  OF  THE   PRINTED  BOOKS. 

MANUSCRIPTS,  AUTOGRAPH  LETTERS. 

AND    ENGRAVINGS.    COLLECTED 

BY    HENRY    HUTH.    WITH 

COLLATIONS     AND 

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL 

DESCRIPTIONS, 


? 


"  L'etude  de  la  bibliographie,  si  aride  en  apparence  pour  qui 
ne  la  considere  que  superficiellement,  est  loin,  pour  qui  I'examine 
de  plus  pr^s,  d'etre  depourvue  d'un  certain  charme ;  elle  offre  a 
I'esprit  observateur  bien  des  fails  curieux,  bien  des  anecdotes 
piquantes,  bien  des  rapprochements  singuliers.  Voila  pourquoi 
sans  doute  plusieurs  hommes  de  lettres  distingues,  des  poetes 
meme,  se  sont  livres  a  cette  etude  avec  autant  d'ardeur  que  de 
succes. " — Brunet. 


VOL.    V. 

u-z. 

ENGRAVINGS. 

AUTOGRAPHS. 

INDEX. 

ELLIS    AND    W^HITE, 

ILonDon. 

1880. 


CHISWICK   press:— CHARLES  WHITTINGHAM,   TOOKS  COURT, 
CHANCERY    LANE. 


A 

CATALOGUE    OF    THE    LIBRARY 

OF 

HENRY    HUTH. 


UBALDINI,  Petrucci.  [Liber  precum.]  lAboitt  1580.]  Sm.  8vo. 

MS.  on  paper  written  in  a  beautiful  Italian  hand  with  gilt  capitals.  In  the 
original  but  worn  binding. 

This  volume  appears  from  the  initials  E.  R.  surmounted  by  a  crown,  which  are 
illuminated  on  the  first  two  leaves,  to  have  belonged  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  was 
probably  presented  to  her  by  the  author,  who  was  an  Italian  Protestant  refugee. 
He  was  the  author  of  "  Le  Vite  delle  donne  illustri  del  regno  d'Inghilterra  e  del 
regno  di  Scotia  &c.    G.  Wolf.     1591."  4to,  and  some  other  pieces. 

UBEDA,  Francisco  DE.  Libro  de  entretenimiento,  de  la  picara 
Ivstina,  en  el  qual  debaxo  de  graciosos  discursos,  se  encierran  proue- 
chosos  auisos.  En  Brvccllas,  En  casa  de  Oliuero  Brnnello,  en  la  Ftiente 
de  oro.     Ailo  M.D.C.  VIII.     Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves;  A — Ff  4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank.  Brunei 
must  be  mistaken  in  describing  the  title  to  this  book  as  engraved  on  wood.  In  this 
copy  at  least  it  is  letterpress.  From  the  library  of  Bishop  Burnet,  with  his  book- 
plate at  the  back  of  the  title. 

UBERTI,  Luc.  Ant.  Libro  Dabaco  che  insegna  a  fare  ogni  ragione 
mercadatile ;  i  a  ptegare  le  terre  c6  larte  di  la  geometria :  1  a  lire 
nobilissime  ragione  straordinarie  c5  la  Tariffa  come  respodeno  li  pen 
1  monede  de  molte  terre  del  modo  con  la  inclita  citta  di  Vinegia.  [At 
the  end.]  Opus  lucha  atonio  de  uberti  fe  1  uinetia.  S^Sens'  alcuna  data.~\ 
Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

A — K  in  eights.  The  volume  is  described  by  Brunet  (vol.  i.,  p.  i)  as  consisting 
of  only  78  leaves,  but  a  complete  copy  should  certainly  contain  80  leaves.  Many 
pages  are  entirely  xylographic. 

UBERTO  E  PHILOMENA.  Opereta  nobilissima  damor  :  laqual 
tracta  de  Uberto  e  Philomena  :  e  poi  de  lamorte  de  esso  Uberto  ;  e  de 
Alba  figlia  del  ducha  di  Bergogna.  \_Senc  alcnna  data.']  4to.  Black 
letter.     Woodcut  on  the  title.    GR.  M. 


H- 


a — g  in  fours.     Probably  printed  at  Florence  about  1500. 
8  T 


1502  UDALL—ULLOA. 

UCHTERITZ,  Heinrich  von.  Kurze  Reise  Beschreibung  Hr. 
Heinrich  von  Uchteritz  ....  Worinnen  vermeldet,  was  er  auf  dersel- 
ben  fur  Ungluck  und  Gliick  gehabt,  sonderlich  wie  er  gefangen  nach 
West-Indien  gefiihret,  zur  Sclaverey  verkaufft,  und  aufif  der  Insel  Bar- 
bados Durch  den  Namen  seines  Herrn  Vettern  Johan  Christofif  von 
Uchteritz  uff  Medewitz  und  Spansdorff  Erbgesessen,  Cammer  Junc- 
kern  auff  Gottorff,  wunderlich  errettet  und  erloset  worden.  Weisscn- 
fels  bey  Joha7in  Christian  Wohlfalirtcn,  Im  Jakr.  1705.  4to. 
Pp.  32,  including  the  title. 

UDALL,  Nicholas.  Flovres  for  Latine  Spekynge  selected  and 
gathered  cute  of  Terence,  and  the  same  translated  in  to  Englysshe, 
together  with  the  exposition  and  settynge  forthe  as  welle  of  suche 
latyne  wordes,  as  were  thought  nedefull  to  be  annoted,  as  also  of 
dyuers  grammatical  rules,  verj'  profytable  &  necessarye  for  the  expe- 
dite knowlege  in  the  latine  tongue  :  Compiled  by  Nicholas  Vdall. 
[Colophon.]  Londini  in  Aedibvs  Tho.  Bertheleti.  M.D.XXXIII.  Cvni 
Privilegio.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

Title,  I  leaf;  verses  by  Udall,  Leland,  and  E.  Johnson,  all  in  Latin,  i  leaf;  Epistle 
in  Latin,  4  leaves  ;  Tabula,  6  leaves  ;  A — Z  in  eights  ;  &,  leaves  ;  Aa,  8  leaves. 

UDALL,  W.  The  History  of  the  Life  and  Death  of  Mary  Stuart 
Qvene  of  Scotland.  London,  Printed  by  lohn  Havilmid  for  Richard 
Whitaker.  .  .  .   1624.     Folio.     R. 

A,  6  leaves,  including  the  portrait,  "are  to  be  sold  by  Compton  Holland,  &c.  ; " 
B — Hh  in  fours  :  li,  5  leaves. 

The  Historie  of  the  Life  and  Death  of  Mary  Stuart  Oueene 

of  Scotland.     London  Printed  for   Will,   Shcarcs  at  the  Signe  of  tlie 
Harrow  in  the  New  exchange.    [1636.]    Sm.  8vo. 

A — Y  6  in  twelves,  including  the  engraved  title  by  Marshall,  but  not  the  portrait. 

ULLOA,  Hernandez  de.  Svccesso  de  la  lornada  que  se  comen56 
para  Tripol  aflo  de  1559.  y  se  acab6  en  los  Gelues  el  de  1560.  /;«- 
presso  en  Vcnetia  en  casa  de  Itian  Griffo.    Afio  MDLXIL.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves,  the  last  blank  ;  A — L  in  eights,  the  last  blank, 
and  the  last  but  one  with  the  register  and  printer's  device. 

ULLOA,  Don  Antonio  de.  Relacion  hi.storica  del  viage  a  la 
America  Meridional  hecho  de  orden  de  S.  Mag.  para  mcdir  algunos 
grados  de  Meridiano  Terrestre,  y  venir  por  ellos  en  conocimiento  de  la 
verdadera  Figura  y  Magnitud  de  la  Tierra,  con  otras  varias  Observa- 
ciones  Astronomicas  y  Phisicas.  Madrid.  Por  Antonio  Marin,  Aflode 
M.DCC.XL  VI 11.    5  vols  in  3.    4to.    Maps. 

ULLOA  PEREIRA,  Don  Lui.S  de.  Obras,  prosas,  y  versos  ana- 


ULSTER— UNIVERSAL.  1503 

didas  en  esta  vltima  impression  recogidas,  y  dadas  a  la  estampa  i)or 
D.  Ivan  Ant.  de  Ulloa  Pcreira.  Ano  1674.  /fw  Madrid.  P or  Fran- 
cisco San::.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-3S6. 

ULSTER.  The  Ulster  Miscellany.  Printed  in  the  Year 
M,DCC,LIII.    8vo. 

A,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  (b),  2  leaves  ;  B — Ddd  2  in  fours,  last  leaf  blank. 
A  rare  miscellany  of  prose  and  verse.     From  Mr.  Pinkerton's  collection. 

UNCASING  OF  MACHIAVEL.  The  Vncasing  of  Machivils 
Instructions  to  his  Sonne :  With  the  Ansvvere  to  the  same.  London 
Prittted  for  Thomas  BiishcU.    161 3.   4to.    R.  M. 

A — G  in  fours. 

A  satire  in  verse.  The  Answer  is  explanatory  of  the  satirical  meaning  of  the 
first  portion. 

UNFORTUNATE  JACK.  The  Second  Part  of  Unfortunate 
Jack. 

Jack  comes  once  upon  the  Stage, 

And  shews  the  People  of  the  Age, 

His  Fortunes  and  his  discontent, 

And  finally  his  banishment. 

And  whatsoever  of  him  I  hear, 

I  purpose  to  you  to  declare, 

Being  full  of  honest  mirth  and  wit, 

The  merriest  Book  that  e'er  was  writ. 
London  :  Printed  by  and  for  C.  B.  and  sold  by  C.  Bates  at  the  Sun  and 
Bible  in  Gilt-spur-strect.    [About  1675.]    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 
A — B  4  in  eights.     In  verse.     Woodcut  on  title. 

The  first  part  of  this  History  appeared  under  the  title  of  "  The  Unfortunate 
Son  ;  Or,  A  Kind  Wife  is  worth  Gold."  A  copy,  the  only  one  yet  noticed,  is  in  the 
Pepysian  library.  In  the  same  collection  occurs  a  copy  of  the  second  part,  sm.  8vo., 
1 68 1.  But  "a  Pamphlett  called  the  vnfortunate  Sonne "  was  licensed  to  Richard 
Harper  on  the  loth  August,  1635.     See  Arber,  iv.,  318. 

UNITED  STATES.  Return  of  the  whole  Number  of  Persons 
within  the  Several  Districts  of  the  United  States  ....  Philadelphia. 
1 79 1.    8vo. 

Pp.  56. 

UNIVERSAL  HARMONY, Or,  TheGentleman  and  Ladies  Social 
Companion.  Consisting  of  a  great  Variety  of  the  Best  and  most 
Favourite  English  &  Scots  Songs,  Cantatas,  &c.  &c.  With  a  curious 
Design  by  way  of  frontispiece.  Expressive  of  the  Sence  of  each  Parti- 
cul'  Song,  All  neatly  engraved  on  Quarto  Copper  Plates  .  .  .  Sold  by 
T.  Newbcry  .  .  .  \_About  1760.]    4to. 

Pp.  129,  besides  the  title-page,  and  two  leaves  of  index  at  the  end. 


I504  UNIVERSAL— URQU  HART. 

UNIVERSAL  MADNESSE  :  Or,  A  new  merry  Letany.  Com- 
posed for  the  City  of  London,  and  may  generally  serve  for  the  use  of 
the  whole  Kingdom. 

The  merry  Doctor  Archee  well  doth  say, 
Would'st  thou  live  long,  then  cast  all  care  away. 
London,  Printed  for  IV.  Ley.    1647.   4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  verse. 

UNIVERSAL  MUSICIAN.The:  Or  Songsters  Delight.  Consisting 
of  the  most  Celebrated  English  and  Scotch  Songs,  Favourite  Cantata's, 
&c.  Designed  for  the  Entertainment  of  Lovers,  Country  Sportsmen, 
Jovial  Companions,  And  all  Others,  who  have  any  Taste  for  Mirth,  Good 
Humour,  and  Polite  Conversation.  London  Printed  and  Sold  by  the 
Booksellers,  And  at  the  Mustek  Shops  in  Toivne  and  Country.  \About 
1750.]    Roy.  8vo. 

One  hundred  and  thirty  leaves,  printed  on  one  side  only,  including  a  frontis- 
piece. 

The  te.Kt  is  engraved,  with  vignettes  at  the  top  of  every  page.  Unmentioned  by 
Lowndes. 

UNIVERSI  GENERIS  Hvmani  meta.  Carmine  [a  Guil.  Gail- 
kirchero]  composita,  Iconibus  et  sententiis  illustrata.  Monaei,  apud 
R.  Sadelermn.    CID  ID  XIX.    Sm.  8vo.    Plates.    R.  M. 

A — I  4  in  eights. 

UPCOTT,  William.  A  Bibliographical  Account  of  the  Prin- 
cipal Works  relating  to  English  Topography.  London.  18 18.  3  vols. 
8vo.    R. 

UPTON,  N1COLAU.S.  Nicolai  Vptoni  De  studio  militari  Libri 
Ouatuor.  Johan.  de  Bado  Aureo,  Tractatus  de  Armis.  Henrici  Spel- 
manni  Aspilogia.  Edoardvs  Bissaevs.  E  Codd.  MSS.  primus  publici 
juris  fecit,  Notisque  illustravit.  Londini,  Typis  Rogeri  Norton  .  .  . 
1654.    Folio.    Plates.    R.  M. 

This  copy  has  a  duplicate  impression  of  the  portrait  of  Sir  H.  Spelman,  a  proof 
before  any  letters. 

URBANUS,  BOLZANIUS.  Institvtiones  graecae  grammatices. 
[Colophon.]  Venetiis  in  csdibus  Aldi  Manutii  Romani.  M.IIID.  mense 
Januario.   4to.    R. 

The  register  of  sheets  precedes  the  colophon,  which  is  followed  by  2  leaves 
of  errata. 

URQUHART,  Sir  Thomas.  Epigrams,  Divine  and  MoralL  By 
Sir  Thomas  Vrchard,  Knight.  London,  Printed  for  William  Leake, and 
are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  Chancery-Lane  neere  the  Routes.  1 646.  4to. 
R.  M. 


URSPRUNG—UTENIIOVIUS.  1505 

A — I  in  fours,  the  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

These  Epigrams  were  originally  published  in  1641,  and  the  present  edition  is 
nothing  more  than  the  unsold  copies  of  that  impression  with  a  new  title-page.  The 
volume  is  dedicated  to  the  Marquis  of  Hamilton  in  an  Epistle,  with  some  of  the 
terms  of  which  Mr.  Collier  ("  Bibliogr.  Catalogue,"  ii.,  460)  very  properly  finds  fault. 
The  author,  Sir  Thomas  Urchard,  or  Urquhart,  of  Cromarty,  is  well  known  as  the 
earliest  translator  of  Rabelais  into  English. 

In  the  present  copy  is  the  usual  full  length  portrait,  by  Glover,  with  an  English 
couplet  beneath  it,  signed  "W.  S.  ;"  but  an  infinitely  rarer  engraving  (also  by 
Glover)  is  inserted,  which  represents  a  full  length  figure  of  the  author  seated  on 
Parnassus,  surrounded  by  the  Muses,  two  of  whom  are  about  to  crown  him  with 
garlands.  The  winged  horse  Pegasus  hovers  over  his  head.  The  impression  of 
the  usual  full  length  portrait  has  some  inscriptions  which  do  not  appear  on  it  as 
issued  with  the  edition  of  1641.  From  Dr.  Bliss's  collection.  A  MS.  note  states 
that  he  had  never  heard  of  a  second  impression  of  the  extra  frontispiece  inserted  in 
this  copy. 

There  is  also  in  the  library  a  fine  tall  copy  of  the  Epigrams  of  the  issue  of  1646 
(from  the  collections  of  Bindley  and  Skegg),  with  the  print  in  the  first  state,  dated 
1641,  and  also  a  duplicate  of  the  plate  as  altered,  inserted  since  Bindley's  time. 

URSPRUNG  vnd  Vrsach  diser  Auffrur  Tciitscher  Nation.  Das 
Lied  mag  man  singen,  in  Briider  Veiten  thon.  Getruckt  zu  Aiigspurg 
durch  Valentin  Othmar.    [Cy'.]   4to. 

Six  leaves. 

USHER,  J.,  Abp.  of  Armagh.  Strange  and  Remarkable  Pro- 
phesies and  Predictions  of  the  Holy,  Learned,  and  excellent  James 
Usher,  Late  L.  Arch-Bishop  of  Armagh,  and  Lord  Primate  of  Ireland. 
Giving  an  Account  of  his  Foretelling  I.  The  Rebellion  in  Ireland 
Forty  Years  before  it  came  to  pass.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  for  R.  G. 

1678.   4to. 

Four  leaves. 

USURY.  Hie  kompt  ein  Beiierlein  zu  einem  reichen  Burger  von 
der  giildt,  den  wucher  betreffen,  so  kumpt  ein  Pfaff  audi  darzu  vnd  dar 
nach  ein  munch,  gar  kurtzweylich  zu  lesen.  \0.  0.  u.  y.]  4to.  Tlie 
edges  uncut. 

Four  leaves.    On  the  title  is  a  large  woodcut  of  a  peasant  and  a  usurer. 

UTENHOVIUS,  Joannes.  Simplex  et  fidelis  narratio  de  insti- 
tuta  ac  demum  dissipata  Belgarum,  aliorum(|,  peregrinorum  in  Anglia, 
Ecclesia  :  &  potissimum  de  susceptis  postea  illius  nomine  itineribus, 
qujecj^eis  in  illis  euenerunt.  In  qua  multa  deCcenae  Dominicse  negocio, 

aliisq;  rebus  lectu  dignissimis  tractantur [Colophon.]  Basilcce,  ex 

Officina    Joannis    Oporini,  Anno    Salutis  kumance  M.D.LX.   Mense 
Martio.    Sm.  8vo.    O.  M. 

Pp.  1-282,  including  title.    Table  and  imprint,  14  leaves. 


I506  VADE  MECUM—VADIANUS. 


V. 

VADE  MECUM  FOR  MALT-WORMS.  A  Vade  Mecum  for 
Malt- Worms  :  or,  a  Guide  to  Good  Fellows :  being  A  Description  of  the 
Manners  and  Customs  of  the  most  Eminent  Fublick  Houses  in  and 
about  the  Cities  of  London  and  Westminster.  With  A  hint  on  the 
Props  (or  Principal  Customers)  of  each  House.  In  a  Method  so  plain, 
that  any  Thirsty  Person  (of  the  meanest  Capacity)  may  easily  find  the 
nearest  Way  from  one  House  to  another.  Illustrated  with  proper  cuts. 
Dedicated  to  the  Brewers.  London  :  Printed  and  sold  by  T.  Bickertou 
at  tJie  Crowne  m  Paternoster-Row.    [1720.]    8vo.   bl.  M. 

A — G  in  eights. 

The  first  edition  of  the  first  part.     From  Mr.  Daniel's  library. 

A  Vade  Mecum  for  Malt-worms  :  or,  a  Guide  to  Good-Fel- 
lows :  .  .  .  The  Second  Edition.  Illustrated  with  proper  Cuts.  Dedi- 
cated to  the  Brewers.  London :  Printed  and  Sold  by  T.  Bickertou  at 
the  Crown  in  Pater nostcr-Row.  \Septeinb.  1720.]  (ii.)  A  Guide  for  Malt- 
Worms.  The  Second  Part  .  .  .  Done  by  several  Hands.  Illustrated 
with  proper  Cuts.  Sold  by  T.  Bickerton  in  Paternoster-Row.  Price  6d. 
wliere  the  First  Part  may  be  had  at  the  same  Price.  \_Septemb.  1720.] 
In  one  vol.    8vo.    The  edges  iincut.    R.  M. 

Part  I  :  A — G  in  fours,  besides  a  half  title.     Part  2  :  A — F  in  fours. 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  Tyrrell  and  Sir  W.  Tite,  and  the  only  complete  copy 
of  both  parts  known.  It  was  from  this  copy  that  M.  Berjeau  made  his  reprint. 
The  dates  between  brackets  given  above  are  inserted  on  each  title  in  the  hand- 
writing of  Narcissus  Luttrell,  by  whom  the  two  tracts  were  doubtless  purchased 
at  the  period  of  pubHcation,  as  in  the  same  hand  we  have  the  price  given,  i.e. 
5(/.  for  each  portion. 

The  copy  referred  to  by  Sir  W.  Tite,  in  an  autograph  note  on  the  flyleaf,  as 
being  in  the  possession  of  a  country  clergyman,  was  only  an  imperfect  one  of  the 
first  part. 

"  Every  leaf  (amounting  to  upwards  of  one  hundred)  is  decorated  by  a  woodcut 
of  the  sign  of  some  well-known  tippling  establishment,  many  of  which  are  known  by 
the  same  sign  at  the  present  day,  while  underneath  the  qualities  of  the  liquors  are 
rehearsed,  and  the  names  of  the  guzzlers  or  frequenters  rendered,  their  drinking 
capabilities  being  faithfully  recorded  in  verse  ;  the  names  given  to  many  of  the 
London  drinks  have  fallen  into  oblivion  or  disuse,  while  numerous  houses,  mentioned 
as  being  well-frequented,  no  longer  exist." — Note  in  Sir  W.  Tite's  Catalogue. 


VADIANUS,  JOACIIIMUS.  Habes  lector  :  hoc  libello.  Rudolphi 
Agricolae  lunioris  Rhcti,  ad  loachimum  Vadianum  .  .  .  Epistolam, 
qua  de  locoij  nullorum  obscuritate  quaestio  fit  et  percontatio.  Joa- 
chimi  Vadiani  ....  ad  cundc  Epistola,  qua  eoi;  qu;E  priori  epistola 
qua;sita  sunt,  ratio  explicat.  Ea  vero  sunt.  Quid  Pli.  cap.  2.  libri 
septimi  per  Dodrantem  intelligat,  ubi  de  Pygmaeis  scribit : .  .  .  .  Quid 


V  AD  I  AN  us.  1507 

idem  per  Vnciam  :  cap.  16.  intclligat,  cum  Gabbarc  scribit  longitudincm 
habuissc  nouem  pedum  &  totidem  Vnciarum.  De  Antipodib'^  q,  sint  : 
&  quomo  sint,  pulchra  disputatio.  Quic  causa  Augustinum  ad  ncgan- 
dum  Antipodas  esse  impulerit :  &  an  recte  negauerit.  An  Lactantio  in 
Antipodu  refutatione  danda  sit  fides  ?  .  .  .  .  Macrobiu  &  priscos  fere, 

in  Antipodu  situ  lapsos  fuisse.    De  iacu    Acronio  et  Vencto 

[Colophon.]  Hcec  tibi  Singrcnws  iaiii  priviuin  anissa  loanncs  Scripta 
Typis  pressit,  cui  bene  grains  eris.  Nona  Kalcndas  Julias.  Anno. 
M.D.XV.    Viennae.  4to. 

A — D  in  fours. 

"  First  edition,  of  the  very  highest  rarity  and  geographical  importance.  Unknown 
to  Harrisse,  who  says,  under  15 15,  "  We  find  under  this  date  in  Maittaire  ("  An- 
nales,"  vol.  ii.,  pt.  i,  p.  267);  Rudolphus  Agricola  junioris  ad  Joachimum  Vadianum 
Epistola  de  locorum  nonnuUorum  obscuritate  cum  Joach.  Vadiani  Epistola 
responsoria.  4to.,  but  we  are  unable  to  state  whether  the  Epistle  of  Vadianus 
mentioned  in  that  work  is  the  same  which  entitles  the  various  editions  of  Pomponius 
Mela  by  Vadianus  to  a  place  in  this  compilation."  With  the  exception  of  the 
Letters  of  Columbus  and  Vespucci,  and  the  first  Decade  of  Peter  Martyr  of  151 1, 
we  know  of  no  other  single  publication  up  to  1515  comparable  with  this  in  point  of 
historical  and  geographical  interest,  so  far  as  the  new  discoveries  affect  the 
geography  of  the  ancients  and  are  interpreted  by  it.  We  neither  forget  nor  under- 
value the  Ptolemy  of  150S  (with  its  extraordinary  map  by  Johan  Ruysch,  and  "The 
New  Description  of  the  World"  by  Beneventanus),  nor  the  editions  of  151 1  and 
1 5 13,  nor  the  geographical  work  of  Schoner  this  same  year.  This  little  book  of 
Vadianus  was  suggested  and  edited  by  his  friend  Rudolfus  Agricola,  who  addresses 
his  Dedicatory  Letter  to  Caspar  Ursinus.  Then  follows  Agricola's  Letter  to  Vadianus 
(omitted  in  the  Pomponius  Mela  of  15 18,  where  this  letter  of  Vadianus  is  reprinted 
in  full)  in  which,  after  some  pleasant  gossip,  Agricola  asks  him  to  explain  a  passage 
in  Pliny  about  the  Pygmies,  a  line  in  Persius — 

"  Sic  costa  longo  subduximus  Apenino  ; " 

and  thirdly,  to  give  his  opinion  about  the  Antipodes,  which,  he  says,  are  denied  by 
Lactantius,  Firmianus,  and  Augustine  ;  while  Pliny,  Pomponius,  Strabo,  Macrobius, 
and  many  others  do  not  deny  them,  although  they  speak  differently  about  them. 
He  adds  that  Laurentius  Corvinus,  his  beloved  preceptor,  agrees  with  the  Modems, 
but  he  himself  does  not  know  what  to  do  between  the  Fathers  and  the  learned 
authorities.  He  then  says  :  "  It  has  not  escaped  me  with  what  diligence  you 
have  promised  the  books  of  Pomponius  Mela  de  situ  orbis  to  the  studious  next 
Summer.^'  Agricola's  Letter  is  dated  September,  15 14.  In  a  postscript,  he  asks 
questions  about  Lake  Acronius,  a  passage  in  Lucan,  iS;c. 

In  his  answer  to  Agricola's  Letter,  Vadianus,  after  replying  to  the  first  two 
queries,  has  a  very  long  dissertation  upon  the  Antipodes,  whose  existence  he  demon- 
strates in  a  variety  of  ways,  telling  Agricola  that  he  ought  to  be  as  certain  that  there 
are  Antipodes  as  that  he  has  fingers  and  nails.  He  enters  at  length  on  the  question  of 
the  relative  latitude  and  longitude  of  Antipodes  in  different  parts,  &c.  He  demolishes 
the  old  objection  of  people  walking  with  their  heads  downwards  by  saying  that  every- 
thing tends  to  the  centre  of  gravity  [and  this  two  centuries  before  the  fall  of  New- 
ton's apple,  and  the  new  birth  of  the  doctrine  of  gravitation.]  He  refutes  Augustine 
and  Lactantius  at  length.  He  says  that  to  get  to  Catagara  its  Antipodes  will  be  in 
Western  Africa,  near  the  Sinus  Hesperius,  but  that  the  inhabitants  of  America  have 
their  Antipodes  much  more  to  this  side.     He  also  says  he  will  write  more  about  the 


i5o8  VADIANUS—V^NIUS. 

Periaci  in  his  Annotations  {Pranotamentis)  to  Pomponius.  Throughout  the  treatise 
he  seems  well  acquainted  with  the  progress  of  discovery  by  the  Portuguese  and 
Spanish,  and  is  acquainted  with  all  the  books  printed  relative  to  them.  He  adopts 
without  hesitation  the  suggestion  of  the  Gymnasium  of  St.  Did,  and  calls  the 
Mundus  Novics  (that  is  Brazil)  America,  without  explanation  or  qualification.  It 
is  not  a  little  singular  that  this  original  special  edition  is  not  noticed  by  any  geo- 
graphers or  bibliographers  who  have  written  about  America,  though  Humboldt, 
D'Avezac,  and  many  others  have  used  with  effect  the  reprint  of  it  at  the  end  of  the 
Pomponius  Mela,  1518."— j1/^.  note  by  Mr.  H.  Stevens. 

VADIANUS,  JOACHIMUS.  Epitome  trivm  Terrae  partivm,  Asiae, 
Africae  et  Evropae  compendiarlam  locorum  descriptionem  continens, 
praecipue  autem  quorum  in  Actis  Lucas,  passim  autem  Euangelistae 
&  Apostoli  meminere.  Cvm  addito  in  fronte  libri  Elencho  regionum, 
urbium,  amnium,  insularii,  quorum  Nouo  testamento  fit  mentio,  quo 
expeditius  pius  Lector  quse  uelit,  inuenire  queat.  Tigtiri,  apvd  Chris- 
tophorvm  Frosch.    Mcnse  Septemb.  Anno  M.D.XXXIIII.    Folio. 

A,  6  leaves  ;  Aa,  6  leaves  ;  Bb — Cc,  4  leaves  each  ;  B — Z  in  sixes  ;  &,  5  leaves. 

Facing  p.  i  of  the  text  is  a  large  folding  woodcut  map,  "  Typus  cosmographicus 
universalis.  Tiguri  Anno  M.D.XXXIIH."  We  here  find  America  marked,  but  it 
is  represented  as  an  island  somewhat  in  the  shape  of  that  portion  of  the  continent 
now  known  as  South  America.  There  are  in  the  book  also  two  large  woodcut 
initial  letters,  representing  Elisha,  and  Christ  clearing  the  Temple,  which  are  evi- 
dently from  designs  by  Holbein. 

Epitome  Trivm  Terrae  Partivm,  Asiae,  Africae  et  Evropae 

compcndiariam  locorum  descriptionem  continens,  praecipue  autem 
quorum  in  Actis  Lucas,  passim  autem  Euangelistae  &  Apostoli  memi- 
nere ....   Tiguri  apiid Frosch.  [Circa  1534.]    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  prehminaries,  12  leaves,  the  last  blank;  pp.  1-524;  twelve  woodcut 
maps  of  2  leaves  each,  and  4  single  leaves  of  maps  or  globes. 

Epitome  Topographica  Totivs  Orbis,  conferes  ad  ea  potissimu 

loca,  quoru  passim  Euagelistf  &  Apostoli  meminere.  Accessit  Pere- 
grinatio  Petri  et  Pauli  Apostoloru,  cum  ratione  temporum  per  Eras- 
mum  Roterod.  [Colophon.]  Antiterpie  apud  Joan.  Graplicnm  anno 
M.D.XXXV.   Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  folios  1-220. 

VyENIUS,  Ernestus.  Tractatus  physiologicus  de  pulchritudine. 
Juxta  eaquae  de  Sponsa  in  Canticis  Canticorum  mystic^  pronunciantur. 

Brnxellis,    Typis  Francisci  Foppens M.DC.LXII.     Sm.    8vo. 

Plates. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — D  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

VtENIUS,  Otho.  Amorvm  Emblemata,  figvris  a^neis  incisa  stvdio 
Othonis  Vxnii  Batavo-Lvgdvnensis.  Emblcmes  of  love,  with  verses  in 
Latin,  English,  and  Italian.  Antverpice,  Venaiia  apud  Auctorem. 
M.DC.IIX.   Oblong  4to.    Plates.   R.  M. 


V^NI  US— VALENTINE.  1509 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  A — Hh  in  fours. 

Following  the  title  is  a  preface  in  English  addressed  to  the  Earls  of  Pembroke 
and  Montgomery,  signed  "Otho  V'snius."  It  is  probable  that  the  English  verses 
throughout  the  volume  are  the  work  of  Richard  Verstegan. 

V.(ENIUS,  Otho.  Emblemata  Horatiana,  imaginibus  in  res  in- 
cisis  atque  Latino,  Germanico,  Gallico  et  Belgico  carmine  illustrata. 
Amstelcedami.    1684.    8vo.    R.  M. 

Frontispiece,  title,  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  A — O  4  in  eights. 

VALENCIA.  Aureum  opus  regalium  priuilegiorum  cim'tatis  et 
regni  Valentie  cum  historia  cristianissimi  Regis  Jacobi  ipsius  primi 
oquistatoris.  [This  title  is  beneatli  a  large  woodcut  of  a  coat  of  arms 
surmounted  by  a  helmet  and  crest.  Five  other  leaves  follow  with  the 
heading,  "  Tabula  priuilegiorum."  On  the  verso  of  the  sixth  leaf  is  a 
woodcut  of  James  the  Good  of  Spain,  on  horseback,  with  an  inscrip- 
tion beneath.  On  the  recto  of  the  seventh  leaf  is  a  heading.]  Comen9a 
la  coquesta  p  lo  serenissimo  e  catholich  princep  de  inmortal  \sic\  me- 
moria  do  Jaume  p  la  gra  de  deu  Re  de  arago  ab  miraculosos  actes 

feta,  de  la  insigne  ciutat  e  regne  de  Valencia [This  continues 

with  sigs.  A,  8  leaves  ;  B,  6  leaves  ;  and  C,  8  leaves.  The  headline  is 
"  Conquesta  De  Valencia."  Then  begins  a  new  set  of  signatures  with 
the  heading.]  In  xpi  nole  amen.  In  hoc  libro  est  plena  copia  diligenT; 
examinata  region  priuilegioic  %  cartarQ  existeciu  originaPr  in  archiuo 
sale  cosilii  insignis  ciuitatis  Valen.  suo  vz  ordine  put  s^enissimis  dnis 
aragonu^  et  valen.  regib®  svccessiue  ocessa  fuere.  Et  hetur  prime  de 
acessis  per  diii  Rege3  Jacobii  antique  memorie  :  qui  ciuitate  valen. 
nona  die  octobris  anno  dni.  M.cc.xxx.viii.  et  subsquent®  totu  eius 
regnu   a    manib®   paganoiji   eripiedo    strenue   ac    feliciter   adquisiuit. 

[Colophon.] Explicit  volumen  priuilegioritin  ac  aliariim  re- 

gianini  prouisioman  :  cum  sais  priinitiiiis  originalibics  ac  rcgistris  pro 
posse  vcridice  ac  diligentcr  oprobatu.  Iinpressii/iif  in  iiobili  ac  magiiifica 
Ciuitate  Valencie  arte  et  iudtcstria  humilis  Didaci  de  gumiel :  sub  anno 
incarnationis  domiiiice.  M.D.xv.  die  vera  intitidata.  xxx.  mesis  octobris, 
regnante potctissimo  Ferdinando  rege  aragonu  valen  zc.    Folio.    BR.  M. 

This  latter  part  of  the  volume  consists  of  a — 2  in  eights  and  A — H  in  eights. 
The  last  leaf  bears  the  errata,  corrigenda,  and  printer's  device. 

VALENTINE  AND  ORSON.  Historia  dei  dve  nobilissimi  et 
valorosi  fratelli  Valentino  et  Orsone ;  Figliuoli  del  Magno  Imperatore 

di  Constantinopoli  &  nepoti  del  Re  Pipino In  Veiietia,  appresso 

Vincenzo  Valgrisi,  &■  Baltessar  Costantini.     ISS^-    Sm.  8vo. 
Pp.  1-421,  including  the  title.    "  Tavola,"  4  leaves. 

Valentine  and  Orson.     The  Two  Sonnes  of  the  Emperour 

of  Greece,  Newly  corrected  and  amended,  with  new  Pictures   lively 

8  U 


1510  VALENTINE—VALERA. 

expressing  the  History.  Printed  at  London  by  Robert  Jbbitson  Anno 
Dom.  MDCXLIX.    4to.     Woodcuts.    BL.  M. 

A — Gg  in  fours,  including  a  woodcut  before  the  title. 

In  the  printer's  preface,  addressed  "  To  the  Reader,"  we  are  told  "  The  History 
here  written,  was  translated  out  of  French  into  English  above  lOo  years  ago,  by  one 
Henry  Watson,  and  since  that  time  it  hath  by  him  been  Corrected,  and  put  into  a 
more  plysant  stile,  and  so  followed  on  to  the  Presse  till  this  present  Edition." 

In  Lowndes  it  is  said  that  four  leaves  of  an  edition  printed  by  Wynkyn  de  Worde 
are  in  the  Duke  of  Devonshire's  library,  but  of  the  identity  of  this  edition  there  is 
no  certainty.  ' 

In  the  "Bibliotheca  Heber.,"  pt.  ix.,  Nos.  31  ii  and  31 12,  are  two  editions 
printed  by  W.  Coplande,  with  variations  in  the  colophon,  and  of  the  second  of 
these  another  copy  was  sold  in  Mr.  Corser's  library,  pt.  7,  No.  369.  The  next 
edition  on  record  is  that  entered  in  the  St3.tioners'  Register,  Arber's  "  Transcript," 
ii.,  p.  210,  "  8  August!  [1586]  Thomas  Purfoote.  Receaved  of  him  for  printinge  the 
oldi:  Booke  of  Valentine  and  Orson  vi''.  Alwaies  provided  that  y<^  cumpanie 
shall  haue  them  at  his  handes."  We  know  of  no  other  edition  till  1637,  and  then 
followed  that  described  above. 

VALENTINE  AND  ORSON.  The  Famous  History  of  Valen- 
tine and  Orson.  Being  The  two  only  Sons  of  the  Emperour  of  Greece. 
Deciphering  their  wonder.''ul  Births,  their  Valiant  Atchievements,  their 
Heroical  Minds,  and  their  Noble  Enterprises.  Drawn  up  in  a  short 
Volume,  on  purpose  to  give  the  better  satisfaction  to  them  that  desire 
to  hear  and  know  the  truth  in  few  words.    Written  by  Laurence  Price. 

This  little  Book  such  vertucs  doth  contain. 

Hardly  the  like  in  all  the  World  again. 
London,  Printed  for  William  Whitwood,  at  the  sign  of  the  Bell  in  Duck 
Lane.    1673.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

Twelve  leaves,  including  a  woodcut  frontispiece. 

Valentine  and  Orson,  The  Two  Sons  of  the  Emperour  of 

Greece.  Newly  Corrected  and  Amended,  with  new  Pictures,  lively 
Expressing  the  History.  London,  Printed  by  T.  H.  for  T.  Passenger, 
at  the  Sign  of  the  three  Bibles,  on  the  middle  of  London-Bridge, 
MDCLXXXIL    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — Ee  in  fours,  including  the  frontispiece. 

Valentine  and  Orson  ....  Newly  Corrected  and  Amended 

....  Printed  by  A.  M.  for  E.  Traccy,  at  the  Three  Bibles  on  London- 
Bridge.    [About  1690.]    4to.     Woodcuts. 

A — Z  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

From  Mr.  Daniel's  collection.  The  woodcuts  are  the  same  as  in  the  edition 
of  1682. 

VALERA,  Cypriano  de.    Dos  Tratados,  el  primero  es  del  Papa 
y  de  sv  avtoridad,  colegido  de  su  vida  y  dotrina.    El  segundo  es  dela 


VALERA— VALERIUS.  151 1 

MIssa :  el  uno  y  el  otro  recopilado  de  lo  que  los  Doctores  y  Concilios 

antiguos,  y  la  sagrada  Escritura  ensenan.    Itcn,  un  Enxambre  dc  los 

falsos  Milagros  con  que  Maria  de  la  Visitacion,  Priora  de  la  Anunciada 

de  Lisboa  engano  a  muy  imiclios  :  y  de  como  fuc  descubicrta  y  con- 

denada \Londra'\  En  casa  de  Ricardodcl  Cavipo.  1599,    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-610  ;  table,  4  leaves.  There  are  folding 
tables  at  pp.  352  and  538. 

VALERA,  Diego.  Cronica.  [Folio  i.]  [L]a  siguiente  coronica 
ylustrissima  pricesa  es  partida  en  quatro  partes  principales.  [On  the 
recto  of  the  twelfth  folio.]  Comien^a  la  coronica  de  esparia  dirigida 
ala  muy  alta  &  muyexcelente  princesa  Serenissima  Reyna  &  Sennora 
nuestra  sennora  donna  ysabel  reyna  de  espanna  de  secilia  &  de  cer- 

denna.    [Colophon.] &■  a  horra  de  vucstro  real  estado  &■  /';/- 

striicion  &  auiso  de  los  de  vuestros  reynos  &  coniareanos  en  vttcstra  muy 
noble  &  muy  leal  eibdad  dc  sevilla  .  .  fuc  inpresa  par  alonso  del  puertos 
enelano  del  nascimiento  de  nuestro  saluador  ihfi  xpo  de  mill  i  quatrocientos 
1  ochenta  7  dos.  afios.    Folio.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

The  first  leaf  begins  as  above,  and  the  preliminary  matter  extends  to  the  recto 
of  the  tenth  leaf  (verso  blank)  ;  eleventh  leaf  blank.  Then  follow  sigs.  A^Y  in 
eights  ;  the  last  two  leaves  of  sig.  Y  are  blank.  It  is  to  be  noted  that  the  first  leaf 
of  sig.  A  is  not  marked,  and  the  second  is  marked  A  iii,  but  the  book  is  quite 
perfect. 

VALERIA,  Caspar  Alonso  de.  Enganos  desengailados  a  la 
luz  de  la  verdad.  Poesias  Sacras,  Misticas,  Morales,  y  Funebres, 
Escritas  con  la  clara  tinta  del  Santo  Desengailo.  Por  Caspar  Alonso 
de  Valeria  Aragones.  Anadense  tambien  algunas  otras,  que  estandose 
imprimiendo  las  sobredichas,  llegaron  a  manos  del  Impresor,  y  ha 
sabido,  que  son  de  Don  Manuel  Carcia  Bustamente.  En  Napolcs,por 
Carlos  Porsilc  1681.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  A — V  4  in  eights. 

VALERIANUS,  Joannes  Pierius.  Hieroglyphica,  sive  de  sacris 
Aegyptiorum,  aliorvmqve  gentivm  literis  Commentarij  Joannis  Pierii 
Valeriani  Bolzanii  Bellunensis,  a  Cjelio  Aug.  Curione  duobus  Libris 
aucti,  &  multis  imaginibus  illustrati.  Basileae,  per  Thomam  Guari- 
nvm,M.D.LXXV.    Folio. 

A  fine  specimen  of  ancient  binding.  In  olive  morocco,  tooled  in  diamond- 
shaped  compartments  within  which  alternate  the  monogram  of  the  letter  C  inter- 
laced, and  two  triangles  crossed. 

VALERIUS,  Johannes.  A  series  of  16  copper-plate  engravings, 
representing  the  postures  of  Johannes  Valerius,  born  without  arms. 
\About  1660.]    4to. 

On  the  first  plate,  which  contains  the  portrait  of  Valerius  in  three-quarter  size, 
is  written  with  his  toes  the  following  memorandum  :  "  Brachijs  manibusquecaptus, 


I5I2  VALERIUS— VALTAN. 

ore  pedibusque  in  hunc  modum  scribo :  atque  aliis  mille  modis  victum  quserito. 
Johannes  Valerius  sine  brachijs."  The  plates  represent  Valerius  beating  a  dnnn, 
playing  at  cards,  holding  a  sword,  shaving  himself,  balancing  a  stool,  and  perform- 
ing other  actions  with  his  feet.     From  Mr.  Daniel's  collection. 

VALERIUS  MAXIMUS.  [On  folio  i.]  Valerii  Maximi  Ro- 
mane  urbis  iurispitissimi  in  librij  factor  et  dictorum  memorabiliu 
ad  Tiberiu  cesarem  Prefatio  incipit.  [Colophon.]  Presens  Valerii 
Maximi  opus  fclarissimu  in  ttobili  urbe  Mogutina  Rhcni,  teruiinatic. 
anno  M.cccc.lxxi.  aviii  kaledis  iuliis,  per  egrcgium  Petrii  sclwyffcr 
de  Gernshem  artis  iinpssorie  nignn.  fcliciter  e  ysumatu.  Folio.  BR.  M. 
One  hundred  and  ninety-eight  leaves,  without  folios,  catchwords,  or  signatures. 

[On  folio  I.]    Valerii  maximi  Romane  vrbis  lurisperitissimi. 

In  libru  factorum  et  dictorum  memorabilium  ad  Tiberiuin  Cesare 
Prefatio  feliciter  incipit.  [Colophon.]  Presens  Valerii  maximi  opus 
preclarissimum,  in  nobilissima  Parisiiis  Anno  doniini  M.CCCC.LxxV. 
Feliciter  est  iniprcssum.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Two  hundred  and  sixty-four  leaves,  without  folios,  catchwords,  or  signatures. 
A  beautiful  specimen  of  the  early  Parisian  press. 


Valerius  Maximus  cum  notis  variorum.    Lngd.  Bat.     1670. 


8vo. 


VALLANCEY,  Charles.  Collectanea  de  Rebus  Hibernicis. 
Dublin  .  .  .  1786- 1804.  An  Essay  on  the  Primitive  Inhabitants  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Dublin  .  .  .  1807.  Together,  7  vols.  8vo. 
Plates.    R. 

VALTAN,  Petrus  Ludovicus.  Ad  honorem  Trinitatis  im- 
mense Patrem  et  Filii  et  Spiritus  Sancti  Unius  Dei.  Petri  Ludovici 
Valte  Andegavensis  Archidiaconi.  Super  qualibet  dictione  Symboli 
Apostolici.  Opusculum  quoddam  incipit.  Quod  Sacre  Theologie 
Parisii  presentatum  :  fidei  Catholice  consonum  approbatum  est.  Sm. 
Folio. 

MS.  on  twenty-three  leaves  of  vellum. 

This  volume  contains,  as  will  be  seen  from  the  foregoing  title,  a  commentary  on 
the  Apostles'  Creed.  It  is  an  admirable  example  both  of  caligraphy  and  illumina- 
tion. Each  word  of  the  Creed  is  written  in  blue  on  a  beautifully  designed  scroll  and 
beneath  each  scroll  are  six  lines  of  Latin  verse,  beginning  always  with  the  word  on 
the  scroll  above.     The  first  verse  runs  : — 

"  Credo  fide  militanti 

Vera  certa  et  constant! 

In  te  unum  summum  deum 

Orans  ut  animum  meum 

In  hac  fide  tuearis 

Pro  salute." 


VALTELLINE—VALTURIUS.  1513 

The  first  page  is  occupied  witli  an  exquisite  miniature  of  St.  Peter,  seated  at  a 
desk  writing  his  Gospel,  within  a  beautifully  designed  architectural  border.  The 
miniatures  of  the  other  Apostles  arc  arranged  throughout  the  book  in  the  following 
unusual  order  :  St.  Andrew,  St.  James  the  Great,  St.  John,  St.  Thomas,  St.  James 
the  Less,  St.  Philip,  St.  Bartholomew,  St.  Matthew,  St.  Simon,  St.  Jude,  St. 
Matthias. 

In  the  year  1500  this  beautiful  volume  was  presented  by  the  author  to  Isabella, 
Queen  of  Spain,  to  whom  the  author  addresses  the  following  preface  : — 

"  Excellentissime  potentissime  et  serenissime  Principi  Elisabeth  dei  gratia  Regine 
Castelle  Aragonu  Sicilie  Granate  &c.  Petrus  Ludovicus  de  valtan,  patria  cathalanus, 
andegauesis  archidiaconus,  christianissimi  Regis  P'rancie  impresentia  hie  legatus. 
Cum  humillima  atque  debita  obedientia  Salutem  Didici  Regina  excellentissinia  inter 
cetera  memoratu  digna  que  Regiis  tuis  moribus  atque  nomini  plurimum  venera- 
tionis  acquirunt  ;  te  latine  lingue  peritiam  (quo  altius  et  terebrantius  que  fidei  sunt 
valeas  adipisci)  no  diu  est,  fuisse  consecutam.  Et  huius  rei  gratia,  in  latinis 
operibus  lectitandis  baud  parum  sepenumero  delectari  quod  profecto  non  minus 
credendum  mihi  quam  admirabile  visum  est.  Noui  enim  his  diebus  inter  agendum 
et  tua  cum  Serenitate  super  negociis  ipsius  legationis  communicandu  qua  bonitate, 
qua  fide,  quo  sermone  cuius  tandem  ingenii  claritate  decoreris. 

"  Quamobrem  non  miretur  precor  Tua  Maiestas  :  nee  cuique  omnium  indecens 
quoquo  pacto  probetur  :  Si  presens  opusculum  de  apicibus  suffie  Trinitatis  elabo- 
ratum,  Tibi  q  q  mulieri  presentatum  iri  decreverim  Scio  Maiestatem  tuam  in 
ipso  tuo  genere  muliebri  :  et  viris  equipollere  litteratis  et  omnia  que  ad  fidei  re- 
ligione  spectat,  maxima  cum  devotione  rimari.  Vale  Regina  Serenissima  mu- 
lierum  nostri  temporis  omnium  precipua.  Ex  amenissimo  suburbano  Granate.  xiii". 
kaleii  Decembres  anno  dominice  natiuitatis  et  sacri  iubilei  Millesimo  Quin- 
gentesimo." 

VALTELLINE.  Alia  Maesta  Christianissima.  II  clero,  et  cattolici 
di  Valtellina.    \_Senz'  alcuna  data.']    4to.    R.  M. 

A — D  iii  and  A — D  ii,  besides  the  second  title. 

Two  memorials  for  the  extirpation  of"  Heretics  "  (Waldenses)  in  the  Valtelline. 
They  are  unnoticed  by  Muston  ("  Bibliographie  des  Vaudoises  ")  or  other  biblio- 
graphers.    They  were  printed  about  1623. 

[VALTURIUS  (ROBERTUS)  de  re  militari  libri  XII.  ad  Sigism. 
Pandulfum  Malatestam,  edente  P.  Ramusio.]  [Colophon.]  Johannes 
ex  uerona  oritindus :  Nicolai  cyrugiq  medici  filius :  Art  is  impressoriq 
magister :  hunc  de  re  miliiari  librnm  elegatdissiuiuin :  litteris  & 
figuratis  signis  sua  in  patria  primus  iinprgssit.  An.  AI.CCCCLXXII. 
Folio.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

This  volume  consists  of  262  leaves,  including  4  leaves  of  table  and  3  blank 
leaves,  two  of  which  follow  the  table,  and  the  other  forms  folio  176.  It  is  impossible 
to  give  a  more  exact  collation,  as  the  book  is  not  only  without  folios,  signatures,  or 
catchwords,  but  a  great  many  leaves  consist  of  single  woodcuts,  and  in  others  the 
text  is  complete  at  the  end  of  the  page,  and  does  not  run  on  to  the  next.  The 
only  means  of  exact  collation  therefore  is  to  compare  one  copy  with  another.  The 
engravings  are  extremely  curious,  and  the  figures,  where  they  occur,  are  drawn  with 
very  great  spirit.  They  are  ascribed  to  Matteo  Pasti  of  Verona,  see  Nagler, 
"  Kvinstler- Lexicon,"  vol.  ii. 


1 5 14  VANBRUGH—VARGAS. 

VANBRUGH,  Sir  John.    Plays London.    1776.    2  vols. 

Sm.  8vo.    Portrait. 

VANDER  DONCK,  Adriaen.  Beschryvinghe  Van  Nieuw- 
Nederlant  (Ghelijck  het  tegenwoordigh  in  Staet  is)  Begrijpende  de 
Nature,  Aert,  gelegentheyt  en  vruchtbaerheyt  van  het  selve  Lant ; 
mitsgaders  de  proffijtelijcke  ende  gewenste  toevallen,  die  aldaer  tot 
onderhout  der  Menschen,  (soo  uyt  haer  selven  als  van  buyten  in- 

gebracht)  gevonden  worden tAcinsteldam,  By  Evert  NieuTven- 

hof,  Boeck-vcrkooper,  woonende  op  'tRuslandt,  hi  'tSckriJf-boeck,  Atino 
1655.    4to.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  pp.  i-ioo  ;  register,  2  leaves. 

Beschryvinghe  van  Nieuw  Nederlant Den  tweeden 

druck.    'tAeiiistcidam 1656.    4to.    G.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  pp.  i-ioo  ;  register,  2  leaves. 
This  second  edition  accords  exactly  with  the  first  as  regards  the  text,  but  has  a 
folding  map,  which  that  does  not  contain. 

VANDER  STERRE,  Chrys.  Vita  S.  Norberti.  Antverpice 
Theod.  GallcEus  excudit.    [1622.]    4to. 

Four  leaves  of  letterpress  dedication,  &c. ;  engraved  title;  portrait  of  St.  Norbert ; 
and  plates  1-34. 

VANNIUS,  Valentinus.  De  Missa  ivdicivm  Valentin!  Vannii, 
Pastoris  Ecclesise  quce  est  in  Candstat.  Tubingce  Anno  Domini 
M.D.L  VII.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — P  iii  in  eights. 

VARAMUND,  Ernest.  A  true  and  plaine  report  of  the  Furious 
outrages  of  Fraunce,  &  the  horrible  and  shameful  slaughter  of 
Chastillion  the  Admirall,  and  diuers  other  Noble  and  excellent  men, 
and  of  the  wicked  and  straunge  murder  of  godlie  persons,  committed 
in  many  Cities  of  Fraunce,  without  any  respect  of  sorte,  kinde,  age, 
or  degree.  By  Ernest  Varamvnd  of  Freseland.  At  Striveling  in  Scot- 
land.   1573.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — S  in  fours. 

VARENIUS,  B.  Geographica  generalis,  In  qua  afifectiones  gene- 
rales  Telluris  explicantur.  Anist.  Ex  offic.  Elzeviriana.  1664.  Sm.  8vo. 
R.  M. 

VARGAS,  Thomas  TamAIO  de.  Restauracion  de  la  Ciudad  del 
Salvador  i  Baia  de  Todos-Sanctos  en  la  Provincia  del  Brasil.  Por  las 
Armas  de  Don  Philippe  IV.  el  Grande  Rei  Catholico  dc  las  Espanas  i 
Indias,  &c.  En  Madrid:  por  la  Viuda  de  Alonso  Martin.    1628.    4to. 


VARIGNANUS—VARTHEMA.  15 15 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves,  the  last  blank  ;  folios  1-178  ;  table,  4  leaves. 

Though  this  author  is  unnoticed  by  any  other  bibliographer,  a  long  list  of  his 
writings  is  given  by  Antonio,  who  describes  this  book  as  printed  at  Madrid  in  1626, 
but  as  the  approbation  and  licence  to  print  are  dated  January  20,  1628,  it  appears 
probable  that  this  is  the  first  edition. 

VARIGNANUS,  Gulielmus.    Secreta  sublimia  ad  varios  curados 

morbos,  verissimis  autoritatibus  illustrata [Colophon.]  Lugdtini 

impresstim  per  Benedictu-^  Bonyit.    1533.   4to. 

A — K  in  eights. 

VARTHEMA,  LUDOVICO.    Itinerario  De  Ludovico  De  Varthema 

Eolognese  ne  lo  Egypto  ne  la  Suria  ne  la  Arabia  Deserta  &  Felice  nc 

la  Persia  ne  la  India  :  &  ne  la  Ethiopia.    La  fede  el  viuere  &  costumi 

de  tutte  le  prefate  prouTcie.    Nouamete  Ipresso.    Stampata  in  Venetia 

per Zorzidi Rusconi Milanese  .  .  .  .  M.D.XVIII.  .adi.  XX.del Mesede 

Decebre.    Sm.  8vo.    O.  M. 

A — M  iv  ii^  eights. 

Itinerario  del  venerable  varon  micer  Luis  patricio  romano  : 

en  el  qual  cueta  mucha  parte  dela  ethiopia  Egipto  :  y  entrabas 
Arabias  :  Siria  y  la  India.  Buelto  de  latin  en  romance  por  Christoual 
de  arcos  clerigo.  Nunca  hasta  aqui  impresso  en  lengua  Castellana. 
[Colophon.]  Fue  inipressa  la  presente  obra  en  la  viuy  noble  y  leal  ciiidad 
de  Seiiilla  por  Jocobo  crobcrger  aleman.  En  el  afio  dela  encarnacion 
del  seflor  de  Mill  \  qitinientos  y  veynte.    Folio.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Folios  i.-lv.,  including  the  title.  The  leaf  bearing  the  colophon  is  not  numbered. 
The  title  is  surmounted  by  a  large  woodcut  of  a  coat  of  arms  within  a  woodcut 
border. 

Ludovici  Patritii  Roman!  novvm    Itinerarivm  Aethiopiae  : 

Aegipti  :  vtrivsque  Arabiae  :  Persidis  :  Siriae  :  ac  Indiae  :  intra  et 
extra  Gangem.    [At  the  end.]    Operi  suprema  manus  imposita  est 

auspitiis  cultissimi  celebratissimiq,  Bernardini  Caruaial  hispani 

S^Sine  loco  ant  an/w.]    Folio. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  folios  i.-lxii. 

The  first  edition  of  Varthema  in  Latin.  The  preface  by  "Archangelvs  Caraeval- 
lensis"  is  dated  from  Milan,  1511,  and  the  book  is  generally  allowed  to  have  been 
printed  there  at  that  date. 

Die  Ritterlich  vri  lobwirdig  raysz  des  gestrengen  vri  iiberall 

ander  weyt  erfarnen  ritters  vnd  Lantfarers  herren  Ludowico  vartomans 
v6  Bolonia  Sagent  v5  den  landen/  Egypto/  Syria  vo  bayden  Arabia 
Persia  India  Un  Ethiopia  v6  den  gestalte/  syte  vii  dero  menschen 
leben  vnd  gelauben/  Auch  von  manigerlay  thyeren  voglen  vnd  vil 
andern  in  den  selben  landen  seltzamen  wuderparlichen  sachen/  Das 
alias  er  selbs  erfaren  vii  in  aygner  person  gesehen  hat.  [Colophon.] 
Zii  nutzpkerkayt  denen  die  da  geren  Iierent  vnd  erfarent  vo  vil  seltz- 
samen  Landen  vnd  Prouintzen  auch  von  iren  gebreyclien  vnd  Manyeren 


I5i6  VATER—VAUGHAN. 

die  sy  sick  dan  darbt  gfhrauchen  ist  das  BiicJdin  von  dent  iveyt 
erf  amen  vn  gestrengcn  Rittcr  Ludovjico  Vartunians  von  Bolonia  seyner 
Ritterliclien  datten  vn  erfarungen  ausz  welsclier  zungen  in  teytsch  trans- 
fcryert  vnd seligkliehen  volend  warden  in  der  Kayserlichen  stat  Aiigspitrg 
in  Kostung  vnd  verlegiing  des  Ersamen  Hansen  Millers  der  jar  zal 
Christi  i.  5.  15.  An  dem  sechzeclienden  Tag  des  Monatz  Junii.  4to. 
Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

a — t  in  fours,  including  the  title  and  the  last  leaf,  which  bears  only  the  printer's 
mark. 

First  edition  in  German.  It  was  several  times  reprinted.  Panzer  informs  us 
that  the  translator  was  Michael  Herr,  but  he  characterizes  the  translation  as  "  sehr 
unverstandlich  und  eland  gerathen." 

VATER  UNSER.  Ain  schon  Auszlegug  uber  das  Gotlich  Gebet, 
Vater  vnser,  Das  vnsz  Gott  selbs  gelernet  hat.  Das  hat  Betracht  ain 
Armer  Bawr,  der  weder  Lesen  noch  Schreyben  kan.  gar  Hiipsch  vnd 
nutzlich,  alien  Christglaubigen  Menschen  zu  gut,  auch  ausz  Brtider- 
licher  Trew.    {0.  0.  0.  J^,   4to. 

Three  leaves.     On  the  title  a  woodcut  of  a  peasant  on  his  knees. 

VATICINIUM  VOTIVUM  :  Or,  Palsmon's  Prophetick  Prayer. 
Lately  presented  Privately  to  His  now  Majestic  in  a  Latin  Poem,  and 
here  Published  in  English.  To  which  is  annexed  a  Paraphrase  on 
Paulus  Grebnerus's  Prophecie.  With  ^several  Elegies  on  Charles  the 
First.  The  Lord  Capel.  The  Lord  Francis  Villiers.  Trejecti.  Anno 
Caroli  Alartyris  primo.    [1649.]  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — F  in  eights  ;  besides  4  unpaged  leaves  between  pp.  74-5.  Por- 
trait of  Charles  II.  as  at.  19. 

There  is  in  the  library  a  second  copy  of  this  book,  from  the  collection  of  Dr. 
Bandinel,  which  has  some  variations,  pp.  73-4  are  cancelled,  and  12  leaves  are 
inserted  in  their  place,  the  first  being  marked  at  the  bottom  for  insertion  after  p.  72. 
A  rare  portrait  of  Charles  I.  is  inserted  in  this  copy. 

VATTEL,  M.  DE.  Le  droit  des  gens,  ou  principes  de  la  loi  na- 
turelle  appliques  ^  la  conduite  &  aux  affaires  des  nations  et  des 
Souverains.    Lcide.    1758.   4to. 

VAUDOIS.  Documens  relatifs  a  I'histoire  du  Pays  de  Vaud  des 
1293  a  1750.    Geneve.    1817.    8vo.   G.  M. 

VAUGHAN,  Henry.  Silcx  Scintillans  :  Or  Sacred  Poems  and 
Priuate  Eiaculations.  By  Henry  Vaughan  Silurist.  London  Printed  by 
T.  IV.  for  H.  Blunden  at  Y'  Castle  in  Cornchill.  1650.  Sm.  8vo. 
BL.  M. 

A— G  7  in  eights. 

First  edition,  containing  only  the  first  portion  ;  the  second  part  was  not  printed 


V AUG  HAN. 


1517 


till  1655,  when  the  two  were  issued  together,  the  preserit  receiving  an  altered  dedi- 
cation and  changes  in  the  poem  on  Isaac's  marriage. 

The  title  is  engraved,  and  is  followed  on  A  2  by  a  leaf  of  verse  headed 
"  Authoris  (de  se)  Emblenia."    A  3  has  the  dedication  to  the  Creator  also  in  verse. 

VAUGHAN,  Henry.  Olor  Iscanus.  A  collection  of  some  select 
Poems,  and  Translations,  Formerly  written  by  Mr.  Henry  Vaughan 
Silurist.  Published  by  a  Friend.  Virg.  Georg.  Flumina  amo,  Sylvasip 
Inglorius.  London,  Printed  by  T.  IV.  for  Htunphrey  Moseley,  and  are 
to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  the  Signe  of  the  Prince's  A  mis  in  St.  Paids 
Church-yard,  i6$i.   Sm.  8vo.    G. M. 

A — L  in  eights,  including  the  title,  engraved  title,  and  verses  opposite. 

VAUGHAN,  Robert.  The  Povrtraitvres  at  large  of  Nine  Moderne 
Worthies  of  the  World,  with  a  short  relation  of  theire  Lives  and 
Deaths.  Elegantly  graucn  in  Copper,  and  Are  to  be  soidd  at  the  Globe 
in  Cornehill  ouer  against  thexcliange.    1622.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Ten  leaves,  including  the  engraved  title. 

Among  these  nine  modern  worthies  are  Edward  the  Black  Prince,  Henry  V.  of 
.England,  Henry  IV.  of  France,  and  WiUiam  of  Nassau. 

VAUGHAN,  Sir  William.  The  Golden  Fleece  Diuided  into 
three  Parts,  Vnder  which  are  discouered  the  Errours  of  Religion,  the 
Vices  and  Decayes  of  the  Kingdome,  and  lastly  the  wayes  to  get 
wealth,  and  to  restore  Trading  so  much  complayned  of  Transported 
from  Cambrioll  Colchos,  out  of  the  Southermost  Part  of  the  Hand, 
commonly  called  the  Newfoundland.  By  Orpheus  Junior,  For  the 
generall  and  perpetuall  Good  of  Great  Britaine.  London,  Printed  for 
Francis  Williams,  and  are  to  bee  sold  at  his  Shop  at  the  signe  of  the 
Globe,  oner  against  the  Roy  all  Exchange.    1626.   4to.    O.  M. 

a — c  in  fours;  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — V  3  in  fours.  Part  2  :  Aa — Nn  in  fours,  and 
a  leaf  of  Oo.  Part  3  :  Aaa — Mmm  in  fours.  There  are  no  separate  titles  to  parts 
2  and  3.  With  a  folding  map  of  "  Newfound  land  described  by  Captaine  John 
Mason." 

The  author  dedicates  his  work  in  English  and  Latin  verse  to  King  Charles.  In 
this  dedication  he  says,  "  The  Mvses  and  the  Graces,  by  the  hands  of  Orpheus 
Junior,  doe  here  present  this  Treatise  of  the  Golden  Fleece  at  the  Feet  of  the  most 
Noble,  Mightie,  and  hopeful!  King  of  Great  Britaine;"  and  he  concludes  his 
address  "To  the  Indifferent  Readers"  with  the  words  :  "—And  in  the  Third  Part 
I  will  discouer  the  certainty  of  the  Golden  Fleece,  which  shall  restore  vs  to  all 
worldly  Happinesse." 

VAUGHAN,  William.  The  Golden-groue,  moralized  in  three 
Bookes :  A  worke  very  necessary  for  all  such,  as  would  know  how  to 
gouerne  themselves,  their  houses,  or  their  countrey.  Made  by  W. 
Vaughan,  Master  of  Artcs,  and  Graduate  in  the  Ciuill  Law.  The 
second  edition,  now  lately  reuiewed  and  enlarged  by  the  Author.    Im- 

8  X 


I5i8  VAUCHAN—VEER. 

printed  at  London  by  Simon  Stafford :  And  are  to  be  sold  by  RicJiard 
Serger  and  lohn  Bro'cvne.    1608.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — Dd  in  eights,  including  the  title. 

VAUGHAN,  William.  Directions  for  Health,  Naturall  and 
Artificial! :  Deriued  from  the  best  Phisitians,  as  well  Moderne  as 
Antient .  .  .  The  sixth  Edition  reviewed  by  the  Author  .  .  .  London, 
Printed  by  John  Beale,  for  Francis  Williams.  .  .  .  1626.    4to. 

A— Ee  in  fours,  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

To  this  edition  are  annexed  "  Two  treatises  concerning  the  preservation  of  Eye- 
sight," by  Dr.  Baily  and  others. 

VAZQUEZ  DE  MURCIA,  Diego.  Siguese  vn  passo  hecho  a  la 
Sancta  Passion  de  nuestro  Seiior  Jesu  Christo.  Compuestopor  Diego 
Vazquez  de  Murcia  ciego.  Y  otras  a  nuestra  Senora,  por  las  letras  del 
A.  B.  C.  Con  vna  cancion  glossada  al  cabo.  Vistas  y  examinadas 
por  el  Reueredo  Padre.  F.  Aloso  de  Orozco.  Ivipressas  co  licecia  en 
A  lea  la  dc  Henares  en  casa  de  luan  Gracian  que  sea  en  gloria.  Ano 
1608.    4to. 

Four  leaves.  Beneath  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  Christ  with  the  instruments  of 
the  Passion.    The  piece  is  in  metre. 

VECELLIO,  Cesare.  Degli  Habiti  Antichi,  et  Modern!  di 
Diuerse  Parti  del  Mondo  libri  dve,  fatti  da  Cesare  Vecellio,  &  con 
Discorsi  da  Lui  dichiarati.  In  Venetia  M.D.XC.  Presso  Damian 
Zenaro.    8vo.     Woodcuts.    O.  M. 

a — c  and  A — Sss  4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Corona  delle  nobili  et  virtvose  donna,  libro  primo  [secondo  e 

terzo].  Nel  quale  si  dimostra  in  varij  Dissegni  tutte  le  sorti  di  Mostre  di 
punti  tagliati,  punti  in  Aria ;  punti  Fiamenghi,  punti  a  Reticello,  e  d'ogni 
altra  sorte,  cosi  per  Freggi,  per  Merli,  e  Rosette,  che  con  I'Aco  si  vsano 
hoggidi  per  tutta  I'Europa.  Et  molte  delle  quali  Mostre  possono 
seruire  ancora  per  opere  k  Mazzete.  Con  le  dechiarationi  a  le  Mostre 
a'  Lauori  fatti  da  Lugretia  Romana.  In  Venetia,  Appresso  Alessandro 
de'  Vecchi.  MDCXXV.  Si  vendono  in  Venetia,  al Ponte  de'  Baretteri 
alia  Libraria  delle  tre  Rose. — Gioiello  della  Corona  per  le  nobili  et 
virtvose  donne.  In  Venetia,  appresso  Alessandro  de'  Vecchi.  MDCXXV. 
Oblong  4to. 

Part  I  :  Sig.  A  (including  title),  4  leaves  ;  B — D  in  eights.  Part  2  :  Aa  (in- 
cluding title),  4  leaves  ;  Bb— Dd  in  eights.  Part  3  :  Aaa  (including  title),  4  leaves; 
Bbb— Ddd  in  eights.  Part  4  :  Aaaa  (including  title),  4  leaves ;  Bbbb — Eeee  iv  in 
eights. 

VEER,  Gerrit  de.  Waerachtige  Beschryvinghe  van  dric  scyla- 
gien,  ter  werelt  noyt  soo  vreemb  ghchoort,  dric  jaercn  achter  malcan- 


VEER— VEGA.  1519 

deren  deur  de  Hollandtsche  cnde  Zeelandtsche  schepcn  by  noordcn 
Noorvveghcn,  Moscovia  ende  Tartaria,  na  de  Coninckrijckcn  van 
Catthay  ende  China,  so  mede  vande  opdoeninghe  vande  Weygats, 
Nova  Sembla,  en  van't  landt  op  de  80.  grade,  dat  men  acht  Grocn- 

landt  te  zijn deur  Gerrit  de  Veer  van  Amstclredam.    Gke- 

druckt  f  Amstelredam,  by  Cornelis  Claess,  ofi't  water,  int  Shrijf-boeck, 
y^"-  1598.    Oblong  4to.     Plates. 

Reprinted  by  De  Bry,  "  Petits  Voyages,"  vol.  iii.,  pt.  3,  1601.  See  also  Camus, 
"  Mdmoire,"  197,  &c.,  and  MuUer,  "  Mdmoire  Bibliogr.,"  p.  103,  where  a  full  collation 
is  given.  This  copy  has,  however,  a  large  folding  map,  engraved  by  Baptista  h 
Doetechum,  which  is  not  described  by  MuUer. 

VEER,  Gerrit  de.    Waerachtighe  Beschrijvinghe  Van  drie  sey- 

lagien Gedriickt  t'A  mstdrcdatn,  by  Cornelis  Claesz,  op't  Water, 

int  Schrijfboeck,  A".  1599.    Oblong  4to. 

A  reprint  of  the  edition  of  1 598,  with  the  same  plates. 


Waerachtighe  Beschryvinghe  Van  drie  seylagien 


Ghcdruckt  t Amstelredam,  by  Cornelis  Claesz,  op't  Water,  int  Schrijf- 
boeck.   Anno  1605.    Oblong  4to. 

This  edition  is  again  an  exact  reprint  of  that  of  1 598,  with  the  same  plates. 

Tre  navigationi  fatte  dagli  Olandesi,  e  Zelandesi  AI  Setten- 


trione  nella  Norvegia,  Moscovia,  e  Tartaria  verso  il  Catai,  e  Regno  de' 
Sini,  doue  scopersero  il  Mare  di  Veygatz,  la  Nvova  Zembla,  Et  vn 
Paese  nell'  Ottantesimo  grado  creduto  la  Groenlandia.  Con  vna 
descrittione  di  tvtti  gli  accidenti  occorsi  di  giorno  in  giorno  a'  Naui- 
ganti.  .  .  .  Descritte  in  Latino  da  Gerardo  di  Vera,  e  Nuovamente 
da  Giouan  Giunio  Parisio  Tradotte  nella  lingua  Italiana.  hi  Venctia, 
Presso  leronimo  Porro,  &■  Conipagni.  1599.  4to.  Plates.  The  edges 
uncut.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — V  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

VEGA  CARPIO,  Lope  Felix  de.  Arcadia  Prosas  y  versos,  de 
Lope  de  Vega  Carpio  Secretario  del  Marques  de  Sarria.  Con  vna 
Esposicion  de  los  nombres  Historicos  y  Poeticos.  A  Don  Pedro  Tellez 
Giron,  Duque  de  Ossuna,  &c.  En  Anvers.  En  casa  de  Pedro y  luan 
Bellero.    Afio  16x7.    Con  Liccncia.    Sm.  8vo.    Y.  M. 

Pp.  l-47ij  including  title;  "  Exposicion,"  28  leaves  not  paged. 

Corona  Tragica.   Vida  y  Muerte  de  la  Serenissima  Reyna  de 

Escocia  Maria  Estuarda.  En  Madrid  por  la  viuda  de  Litis  Sanchez, 
Impressora  del  Reyno.  A0o  162J.  A  costa  de  Alonso  Perez  mercader 
de  libros.    4to.    G.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves,  including  a  portrait  of  Queen  Mary,  by  J.  de 
Courbes  ;  A— Q  6  in  eights. 


I520  VEITIA—VENEGAS. 

VEITIA  LINAGE,  Joseph  de.  Norte  de  la  Contratacion  de  las 
Indias  Occidentales.  En  Sevilla.  Por  luan  Francisco  dc  Bias.  1672. 
Folio. 

Book  i.:  Title  and  preliminaries,  16  leaves,  preceded  by  an  engraved  title; 
pp.  299.     Book  ii.,  pp.  264 ;  index,  35  leaves  ;  colophon,  i  leaf. 

VELASCO,  J.  F.  Hispaniarvm  Vindiciae  Tvtelares  in  II.  Libros 
divisse  :  Venisse  in  hsec  Regna  lacobum  Apostolvm,  Fideique  lumen 
intulisse,   Adversus   Cardinalis    Baronii,    aliorumque   Opinionem.     E 

Bibliotheca  Jo.  Fer.  Velasci Hispanice  depromptje,  Ab  Erycio 

Pvteano  Latinitate  donatae.    Lovenii  In  Officind  typograpliicd  Gerardi 
Rivii.    M.DC.VIII.    4^0. 

*,  4  leaves  ;  a — i  in  fours. 

VELLEIUS  PATERCULUS.  C.  Velleii  Paterculi  quae  super- 
sunt.  Nicolaus  Heinsius  Dan.  F.  recensuit.  Amstelodami,  Ex  Officina 
Elzeviriana.    A'  1678.    Sm.  8vo.    The  edges  uncut.    R.  M. 

Historia  Romana,  cum  notis  variorum,  curante  P.  Burmanno. 

Lugd.  Bat.    1744.    8vo.    R.  M. 

Caii  Velleii  Paterculi  Historise  Romanae  libri  duo.   Accurante 

S.  A.  Philippe.     Lntetics  Parisioriim,  Typis  J.  Barbon.    1754.     Sm. 

SVO.     Y.  M. 

VENABLES,  Robert.  The  Experienc'd  Angler :  Or  Angling 
Improv'd.  Being  A  general  Discourse  of  Angling  ;  Imparting  many 
of  the  aptest  wayes  and  choicest  Experiments  for  the  taking  of  most 
sorts  of  Fish  in  Pond  or  River.  London  :  Printed  for  Ricliard  Harriot, 
and  are  to  be  sold  at  Ids  Shop  in  St.  Dunstans  Church-yard,  Fleet-street. 
1662.    Sm.  8vo.    Plates.    O.  M. 

A — H  in  eights,  not  including  the  engraved  title  by  R.  Vaughan. 

First  edition.  After  the  preface  is  an  epistle  to  the  author,  signed  J.[zaak] 
W.[alton]. 

VENDOME,  Duke  of.  Copia  de  vna  carta  escrita  por  el  Duque 
de  Vandoma  al  Rey  ....  desde  Sarravalle,  el  dia  27  Octubre  de  1703. 
En  Madrid  por  Antonio  Bizarrbn.    1703.    4to. 

Two  leaves. 

VENEGAS,  Miguel.  Noticia  de  la  California,  y  de  su  conquista 
temporal,  y  espiritual  hasta  el  tiempo  presente.  Sacada  de  la  historia 
manuscrita,  formada  en  Mexico  ano  de  1739.  por  el  Padre  Miguel 
Venegas,  de  la  Compania  de  Jesus  ;  y  de  otras  Noticias,  y  Relaciones 
antiguas,  y  modcrnas.  Anadida  de  algunos  inapas  particulares,  y  uno 
general  de  la  America  Septentrional,  Asia  Oriental,  y  Mar  del  Sur 
intermedio  formadas  sobre  las  Memorias  mas  rccientes,  y  cxactas,  que 


VENETUS—VERDADERA.  1521 

se  publican  jiintamente.  En  Madrid:  En  la  iinprenta  de  la  Viuda 
de  Manuel  Fernandez,  y  del  Siipyemo  Consejo  de  la  Inqtiisicion.  1757. 
3  vols.    4to. 

Vol.  i. :  Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves;  pp.  1-240.  At  p.  i  a  large  folding 
map  of  California.  Vol.  ii.:  Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  pp.  1-564.  Vol.  iii.: 
Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves;  pp.  1-436.    Maps  at  pp.  194,  236,  436. 

VENETUS  PRUTENUS,  Georgius.  De  discrimine  legis  et 
evangelii  Propositiones,  de  quibus,  Deo  iuuante  disputabit  Vir  Nobilis 
Georgivs  Venetvs  Prvtenvs,  die  19.  Septembris.  Witebergcz.  Ex  Offi- 
cina  lohannis  Lufft.    1550.    Sm.  8vo. 

Sixteen  leaves. 

VENICE.  Eyn  Rede,  der  gesandten  Botschaffter  der  Venediger, 
an  herren  Maximilianum  Romischen  kayser,  gethane  zu  Memniingen 

a  di.  30.  Decebri.    1 508 \0.  0.  u.  J.']    4to. 

a — b  in  eights  ;  c — d  in  fours. 

II  modo  de  la  elettione  del  Serenissimo  Principe  de  Venetia 

con  li  nomi  de  tutti  li  Dosi  che  sonno  stati  etiam  quanto  hanno  viuesto 
fin  al  giorno  presente.    [Venetia.    1545.]    8vo.     The  edges  imcut. 

Four  leaves. 

VERANTIUS,  FaustUS.  Dictionarium  qvinqve  nobilissimarvm 
Evropae  lingvarvm,  Latinae,  Italicfe,  Germanicse,  Dalmatiae  &  Vngaricai. 
[Accedit  Institutio  Christiana  iisdem  Unguis.]  Venetiis,  ApudNicolaum 
Morettum.    1595.    4to.    O.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — Q  in  fours. 

[VERARDUS,  Carolus.]  In  laudem  Serenissimi  Ferdinandi 
Hispaniai^  regis,  Bethicae  &  regni  Granatae,  obsidio,  victoria,  &  triiiphus, 
Et  de  Insulis  in  mari  Indico  nuper  inuentis.  \Basileie^  1.4.94.  4^0. 
Woodcuts. 

aa — cc  in  eights  ;  dd — ee  in  sixes. 

This  is  erroneously  described  as  an  8vo  by  Mr.  Harrisse.  See  Biblioth.  Ameri- 
cana, No.  15.  The  title  of  the  Columbus  letter  (of  which  this  is  the  seventh  impres- 
sion) is  on  the  verso  of  dd  5. 

VERAX  PHILOBASILEUS.  Confused  Characters  of  Conceited 
Coxcombs,  Or,  A  Dish   of  Traitorous  Tyrants.    Reprinted  from  the 

Original  edition  of  1661.    Edited  by  J.  O.  Halliwell.    London 

i860.   4to. 

Only  twenty-six  copies  printed. 

VERDADERA  Relacion,  en  la  qval  se  declara  el  valerosa  animo, 
que  quatro  hermanos  peregrinos  Lusitanos  tuuieron,  contra  catorze 
bandoleros,  que  lleuauan  hurtada  la  Custodia  del  santissimo  Sacra- 
mento :  Declarase  como  mataron  los  diez,  y  prendieron  los  quatro, 


1522  VERDI  ZOTTI—VERE. 

tambien  se  declara  como  fueron  los  ladrones  castigados  en  la  Ciudad 
de  Girona,  y  de  como  los  peregrines  fueron  muy  agradecidos  sus 
buenos  hechos,  y  assi  les  dieron  para  su  viage  de  Roma  mucho  fauor 
y  ampare,  y  otras  cosas  que  en  la  historia  se  cuenta,  con  lo  demas 
que  les  sucedio  a  los  peregrines  en  su  viage,  que  son  dignas  de  que  se 
sepan.  Visto  y  examinado  todo  por  el  ordinario  de  Perpinan,  en  este 
aiio  de  1608.  a  diez  de  Margo.  Compuesta  por  vn  Religiose  del  nobre 
de  lesus.  Lleua  al  fin  vn  Romance  de  Cortes  con  vnas  Seguidillas. 
Imprcssa  con  licencia  en  Valladolid,  en  casa  de  Andres Merchan  que  sea 
671  gloria.    [1608.]    4to. 

Four  leaves.  Beneath  the  title  is  a  small  cut  of  a  bishop  on  his  throne.  The 
verso  of  the  last  leaf  is  entirely  occupied  by  a  large  woodcut  which  represents  a 
master  at  a  desk  with  pupils  seated  round.     The  whole  of  the  piece  is  in  metre. 

VERDIZOTTI,  G.  M.    Cento  Favole  morali  Dei  piu  illustri  antichi, 

e  moderni  autori  Greci  &  Latini In  Venetia,  appresso  Giordano 

Zileti,  &  compagni.    AIDLXX.   4to.     Woodcuts.    R. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B — T  6  in  eights  ;  V,  4  leaves. 

VERE,  Sir  Francis.  Trve  Newes  from  one  of  Sir  Fraunces 
Veres  Companie.  Concerning  Delftes-Isle  and  sundry  other  townes  in 
the  Lowe  Countries,  yeelded  to  the  Generall  since  May  last.  Of  the 
great  armie  nowe  comminge  out  of  Germanic  for  the  aide  of  the  French 
King,  and  their  hope  for  the  speedye  winningeof  Antwerpe.  With  the 
bloody  persecution  and  marterdome  which  sundry  cheefe  persons  of 
account  did  lately  suffer  in  Spaine  for  the  profession  of  Christ  lesus. 
Translated  out  of  Dutch.  Scene  and  allowed.  Impritited  at  London 
for  Thomas  Nelson,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  ouer  against  tlie  great 
South  doore  of  Failles.  1591.  4to.  Black  letter. 
A — C  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Extremities  Vrging  the  Lord  General  Sir  Fra.  Veare  to  offer 

the  late  Anti-parle  with  the  Arch-duke  Albertus.  Written  by  an  Eng- 
lish Gentleman  of  very  good  account  from  Ostend,  to  a  Worshipful! 
Gentleman  his  friend  here  in  England  :  Imprinted  verbatim  according 
to  the  originall.  With  a  declaration  of  the  desperate  attempt  made 
since,  by  the  sayd  Arch-dukes  forces,  for  the  winning  of  the  olde 
Towne.    At  London  Printed  for  Thomas  P aider.     1602.   4to.     Black 

letter.    Tlie  edges  nncut. 

A — C3  in  fours. 

The  Commentaries  of  S^  Francis  Verc,  Being  Diverse  pieces 

of  service,  wherein  he  had  command,  written  by  himself  in  way  of 
Commentary.  Published  by  William  Dillingham,  D.D.  Vt  Vcrus 
in  sitis  Covmientariis  prodidit.  Camd.  Annal.  Mihi  sufficit  Juec 
sumntatim  k  Veri  Commentario  aniiotasse.     Idem  Ibid.     Cambridge : 


VERGIER—VERON. 


'523 


Printed  by  John  Field,  Printer  to  the  famous  University.   Anno  Dotn. 
MDCL  VII.    Folio.    R.  M. 

A,  6  leaves,  including  half  title  ;  portraits  of  Sir  Francis  Vere  and  Sir  Horace 
Vere  ;  Monument  of  Sir  Francis  Vere  by  Gaywood  ;  Mappe  of  the  Sea  Coasts  and 
Mappe  of  the  Low  Countries  ;  B — D  in  fours  ;  Map  of  Part  of  Spain,  the  Azores, 
&c. ;  E — K  in  fours  ;  Plan  of  the  Action  near  Turnhoult,  L,  4  leaves  ;  Plan  of  the 
Battle  of  Newport,  M — P  in  fours,  with  portrait  of  Sir  John  Ogle  at  P  2  ;  Q,  4 
leaves,  with  map  of  the  Flemish  coast ;  R — Cc  in  fours,  and  Dd,  6  leaves. 

VERGIER.  Le  Verger  Celeste.  [On  p.  3.]  Cy  commence  Le 
vergier  celeste  fait  &  compose  p  manicre  dune  familiere  collocution 
de  lame  deuote  espouse  de  nostre  saulueur  iesuchrist  parlant  feablc- 
ment  a  son  doulx  espoux  iesus  lequel  fut  fait  a  la  requeste  dune  deuote 
et  reuerede  abbesse  de  lordre  de  cysteaux  pour  la  cosolacion  dcs 
espouses  iesuchrist.  \Paris  par  A.  Verard.  s.  d.]  Sm.  8vo.  B/acJb 
letter.    R.  M. 

a — d  6  in  eights.  The  first  leaf  bears  on  the  recto  only  three  words  of  title  as 
given  above,  and  on  the  verso  is  a  large  woodcut. 

VERGILIUS  URBINAS,  PolydorUS.  Polydorvs  Vergilius 
Vrbinas  von  den  erfyndern  der  dyngen  ....  durch  Marcum  Tatium 

Alpinu  ins  Teutsch  transferiert Getriickt  su  Augspiirg  diircit, 

H.  Stayner  M.D.XXXVII.    Folio.     Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  i8  leaves  ;  folios  i.-ccx. 

VERISSIMA  relacion  embiada  a  Don  Fray  Andres  de  S.  Maria 
Obispo  de  Cochin,  la  qual  trata  de  como  en  las  Indias  de  Portugal  ay 
vn  hombre  que  tiene  trezientos  y  ochenta  anos,  y  ha  fido  ocho  vezes 
casado,  y  se  le  han  caydo  todos  los  dientes  dos  vezes,  y  le  boluieron  a 
nacer.  Este  es  el  verdadero  retrato  del  hombre  que  passo  en  bra^os 
al  glorioso  San  Francisco  por  el  rio  de  Ganga,  el  qual  fue  sacado  a 
instancia  del  Reuerendo  padre  Don  Fray  Andres  de  S.  Maria  Obispo 
de  Cochin.  Impressa  con  licencia  en  Salamanca  en  casa  de  Antonio 
Ramirez.   Aflo  1609.   4to. 

Four  leaves. 

On  the  title  is  a  rude  woodcut  to  represent  St.  Francis  crossing  the  Ganges.  On 
the  last  leaf  we  read,  "La  relacion  del  sobredicho  milagro  fue  embiada  al  lUustris- 
simo  Arqobispo  de  Lisboa,  con  con  [«V]  cuya  authoridad  se  aprobo  y  su  Sefioria 
lUustrissima  concedio  licencia  para  se  poder  emprimir  en  la  dicha  ciudad,  y  agora 
impressa  en  Salamanca  con  licencia  del  Ordinario  en  casa  de  Antonio  Ramirez." 

Below  this  is  a  rude  woodcut  of  a  centaur. 

VERON,  John.  A  Stronge  Defence  of  the  maryage  of  Pryestes, 
agaynste  the  Pope  Eustachians  and  Tatanites  of  our  time,  made 
dialogue  wise  by  lohn  Veron,  betwixte  Robin  Papyste,  and  the  true 
Christian.  [Quotations  from  Corinthians  and  Hebrews.]  Impryntcd  at 
London  in  Flete-strete  nere  to  Sainct  Duns  tons  Churche  by  Thomas 
Marslie.    Sji.  </.]    Sm.  8vo.  Black  letter.   O.  M. 


1524  VEROVERING—VERSTEGAN. 

A— C  in  eights,  last  two  leaves  blank ;  a— g  in  eights ;  h,  lo  leaves,  the  last 
blank.  With  a  long  Epistle  prefixed  to  "  Master  George  Basford,  Leather  sealer, 
Citezen  of  London." 

From  Herbert's  collection. 

VEROVERING  vande  Silver-vloot  inde  Bay  Matanca.  A'  1628. 
(Amsterdam,  By  Clacs  Jansz.  Visscher.    [162S.] 

A  large  broadside  with  a  copperplate  at  the  top  containing  a  view  of  the  fleet 
in  the  bay,  and  in  the  corners  circular  portraits  of  Admiral  Hendrick  Cornehsz. 
Lonq  and  General  Pieter  Pietersz.  Hayn. 

VERSATILE  INGENIEUSE,  The  Wittie  Companion,  or  Jests 
of  all  Sorts.  From  Citie  and  Countrie,  Court  and  Universitie.  With 
an  account  of  the  Life  of  the  laughing  Philosopher  Democritus  of 
Abdera.  By  Democritus  Junior.  [Two  quotations.]  London.  Printed 
for  the  Company  of  Stationers.    Anno  1679.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — P  4  in  eights.  With  a  frontispiece  by 
Van  Hove. 

On  the  back  of  the  title  are  some  lines  in  commendation  of  the  book,  written  in 
imitation  of  Suckling's  "  Ballad  of  the  Wedding." 

VERSO.  Canto.  [Alto.  Tenore.  Qvinto.  Basso.]  Di  Antonio  il 
Verso  Siciliano  della  citta  di  Piazza.  II  primo  libro  de'  Madrigali  a 
cinqve  voci.  Nouamente  dato  in  luce.  In  Palermo.  [1590.]  Five 
parts  in  one  vol.    4to.    Y.  M. 

A — C  in  fours  for  each  of  the  five  parts. 

This  work  appears  to  have  been  unknown  to  Brunei,  but  is  mentioned  by  F^tis. 

[VERSTEGAN,  R.]   Theatrvm  Crudelitatum  Haereticorum  Nostri 

Temporis.  A  ntverpice,  ApvdA  driamim  Huberti.  A  nnoM.D.LXXX  VII. 

4to.    Plates. 

Pp.  95,  including  the  title. 

Odes  in  Imitation  of  the  Seaven  Penitential  Psalmes,  with  sun- 

drie  other  Poems  and  Ditties  tending  to  deuotion  and  pietie.  [Printed 
at  Antwerp  by  Robert  Brnney^   Anno  Domini.  M.  D.  CI.    8vo.    R.  M. 

A — H  4  in  eights. 

Dedicated  "To  the  Vertvovs  Ladies  and  Gentlewomen  Readers  of  these  Ditties." 
Here  the  author  says  that  his  original  intention  was  not  to  commit  his  poems  to 
the  press,  but  that  having  shown  them  to  a  friend,  and  having  been  urged  to  make 
them  public,  he  had  not  only  done  so,  but  had  made  additions  to  the  original  col- 
lection ;  and  he  asks  his  lady  readers  to  procure  some  skilful  musician  to  set  them 
to  proper  tunes. 

The  only  other  perfect  copies  known  are  three  :  in  the  Bodleian,  at  Britwell 
(formerly  Heber's),  and  Mr.  Addington's,  purchased  at  Corser's  sale,  Mr.  Corser 
having  obtained  it  at  Pickering's  sale  in  1854,  The  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica 
copy  was  not  complete. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  book  was  executed  by  the  same  printer  who 
issued  Verstegan's  "  Restitution  of  Decayed  Intelligence"  in  1605  ;  the  typogra- 
phical ornaments  arc  exactly  similar. 


VERSTEGAN—VESPUTIUS.  1525 

[VERSTEGAN,  R.]  A  Restitvtion  of  Decayed  Intellifjcnce  :  In 
antiquities.  Concerning  the  most  noble  and  renowmed  English  nation. 
By  the  studie  and  trauaile  of  R.  V.  Dedicated  vnto  the  Kings  most 
excellent  Maiestie.  [Engraving  of  the  Tower  of  Babel,  with  the  inscrip- 
tion underneath  :  Nationum  Or/g^o.]  Printed  at  Antzverp  by  Robert 
Bruncy.  1605.  And  to  be  sold  at  London  in  Panles  Churchyard,  by  lohn 
Norton  and  lohn  Bill.    4to.    Plates.    R. 

First  edition.  Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves  ;  A — Xx  in  fours  ;  Vv  2  is  a 
plate  of  the  Verstegan  arms  without  letterpress  at  the  back.  There  are  many  en- 
gravings on  the  letterpress. 

VESPUTIUS,  Americus.  Mundus  nouus.  [On  the  verso  of  A  i.] 
Mundus  nouus  de  natura  &  moribus  i  ceteris  id  generis  gentis  que  in 
nouo  mudo  opera  &  impensis  serenissimi  Portugallie  Regis  super  idibus 
annis  inuento.    \Sine  loco  ant  anno.]     Sm.  8vo. 

This  is  the  edition  of  eight  leaves  with  thirty  lines  in  a  full  page.  Harrisse, 
No.  25;  Grenville  Catalogue,  vol.  ii.,  p.  766.  In  the  copy  from  which  Mr.  Harrisse 
took  the  superscription  of  page  2,  the  word  "  idibus  "  appears  to  have  been  omitted. 

Mundus  Nouus  C  De  natura  et  moribus  t  ceteris  id  gnis  getj 

que  I  nouo  mudo  opera  %  impesis  serenissimi  portugallie  regis  superiori- 
bus  anis  inuento  Albericus  vesputius  Lauretio  petri  de  medicis  Salute 
plurima  dicit.    [Sine  loco  ant  anno.]    4to. 

Four  leaves.     Harrisse,  No.  29. 

Mundus  Nouus.    [Onthe  verso  of  the  title.]  Albericus  vespu- 

cius  Laurentio  Petri  de  medicis  salutem  plurimam  dicit.  [Colophon.] 
Magister  joJidnes  otniar :  vindclice  imprcssit  August e  Anno  viillcsimo 
qiiingentesimo  qtiarto.    4to.    G.  M. 

Four  leaves,  with  forty  lines  to  the  page.     Harrisse,  No.  31. 

Von  der  new  gefunde  Region  die  wol  ein  welt  genennt  mag 


werden,  Durch  den  Cristenlichen  Kiinigvon  Portugall,  wunnderbarlich 
erfunden.  [Colophon.]  Gcdruckt  yn  Nuremberg  durch  Wolffganng 
Hucber.    [C.  J.]    4to.    G.  M. 

Six  leaves,  thirty-seven  lines  to  the  page.     On  the  title  is  a  woodcut  intended  to 
represent  the  King  of  Portugal.     Harrisse,  No.  33. 

Fac-Simile  of  the  "  Dutch  Vespucius."    Being  the  celebrated 


Letter  of  Americus  Vespucius  to  Laurentius  de  Medicis From 

the   Unique  copy  printed  at  Antwerp,   1506-10,  in  the  possession  of 
John  Carter  Brown,  of  Providence.    Providence,  1%"]^.    8vo. 

Title  and  preface,  2  leaves  ;  the  facsimile,  8  leaves. 

Twenty-five  copies  reprinted.     A  presentation  copy  from  Mrs.  J.  Carter-Brown. 

8  V 


IS26  VESPUTIUS. 

VESPUTIUS,  Americus.  De  ora  antarctica  per  regem  Portu- 
galliepridem  inuenta.  [Colophon.]  I mpressiim  Argentine  per  Mathiam 
hiipfuff.    Msi^.v.    4to. 

Six  leaves. 

There  are  two  woodcuts  on  the  title,  one  representing  four  naked  savages,  and 
the  other  five  ships.     Harrisse,  No.  39. 

Disz   biichlin  saget  wie  die  zwe   durchliichtigste  herre  her 


Fernandus.  K.  zu  Castilien  vnd  herr  Emanuel.  K.  zu  Portugal  haben 
das  weyte  mor  ersuchet  vnnd  funden  vil  Insulen,  vnnd  ein  Niivve 
welt  von  wilden  nackenden  Leiiten,  vornials  unbekant.  [Colophon.] 
Gednickt  zu  Straszbiwg  dnrch  Joliaiie  Grilniger  I  in  iar  M.  CCCCCjci. 
vff  Letare,  Wie  du  aber  dye  kngcl  vTi  besclircibung  der  gantzenti  zvelt 

version  soltt,  wiirst  dii  hernach  fiiiden  vnnd  lesen. Der  welt  kugel 

Beschrybug  der  welt  vnd  desz  gatze  Ertreichs  hie  angezogt  vn  ver- 
gleicht  einer  rotunde  kuglen,  die  dan  sunderlich  gemacht  hie  zu 
'  gehbrede,  darin  der  kauffma  vnd  ein  ietlicher  sehen  un  merken  mag 
wie  die  menschen  vnde  gege  vns  wone  vii  wie  die  Son  umbgang,  herin 
beschriben  mit  vil  seltzame  dinge.  [Colophon.]  Getruckt  zu  Strasz- 
burg.  Von  Johanne  griininger.  im  Jar.  M.D.IX.  vff  ostern  Jolianne 
Adelpho  castigatore.  In  i  vol.  4to.  Woodcuts.  R.  M. 
Part  I,  32  leaves  ;  part  2,  16  leaves. 

The  first  part  of  this  volume  contains  a  translation  of  the  four  voyages  of 
Vesputius. 

Paesi  nouamente  retrouati.     Et  nouo  Monde  da  Alberico 


Vesputio  Fiorentino  intitulato.    [Colophon.]    Stampato  in  Vicentia  cu 
la  impensa  de  Mgro.  Henrico  Vicentino :  &  diligente  cura  Jif  industria 

de  Zdmaria  suo  fiol  nel.  M.cccccvii.  a  di.  Hi.  de  Nouembre. 

4to.     R.  M. 

Title  and  table,  6  leaves  ;  a — z  in  fours  ;  &,  d,  I^,  4  leaves  each  ;  A — D  in  fours, 
the  last  leaf  blank. 

First  edition.  This  collection  of  voyages  and  the  translations  of  it  into  German 
Latin  and  French  is  placed  under  Vesputius,  because  it  is  so  placed  by  Brunet,  and 
the  real  editor  or  compiler  of  the  volume  appears  to  be  unknown.  It  contains  only 
a  portion  of  the  voyages  of  Vesputius,  but  includes  those  of  several  other  early 
navigators. 

Paesi  nouamente  ritrouati  per  la  Nauigatione  di  Spagna  in 


Calicut.    Et  da  Albertutio  Vesputio  Fiorentino  intitulato  Mondo  Nouo : 

Nouamente  Impressa.    [Colophon.]    Stampata  in  Venetia per  Zorzi  dc 

Rusconi  millanese :  Nel.  M.cccccjcyii.  adi.  xyiii.  Agosto.   Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  table,  4  leaves  ;  b — q  in  eights. 


Paesi    nouamente    retrouati.   &    Nouo   Modo  da   Alberico 

Vesputio  Fioretino  intitulato.    [Colophon.]    Stampato  in  Milano  con 
la  ivipcnsa  de  lo.  lacobo  &  fratclli  da  L  ignano :  &  diligente  cura  &  in- 


VESPUTIUS—VETANCURT.  1527 

dnstria  de  loanne  Angela  scinzenzeler :  nel.  Mxccccxix.  a  di.  v.  de  Mazo. 
4to.    R.  M. 

Title  and  table,  4  leaves  ;  a — u  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank.  On  the  title  is  a 
large  woodcut. 

VESPUTIUS,  Americus.  Itincrariu  Portug-allesiu  e  Lusitania 
in  India  1  inde  in  occidentem  i  dcmum  ad  aquilonem.  [Colophon.] 
Operi  siiprema  maims  imposita  est  kalendis  qiiiiitilibus.  Ludoiiico  galliaR^ 
rege  hums  urbis  Iclite  [Medio/ant]  sccptra  7-egitc.  Iidio  secfido  pdtifice 
maxima  ortlwdoxd  fide  felkitcr  moderate:  anno  nJee  salutis.  M.D.  VII F. 
Folio. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  B— N  in  eights,  except  D,  G,  I,  N,  which 
are  in  sixes.     On  the  title  is  a  large  woodcut  map. 

This  volume  is  dedicated,  "  Magnifico  Dominico  lafredo  karoli.  I.  V.  cosulto 
Delphinatus  prssidi  :  ac  Mediolfii  uicecacellario  :  uiro  eruditissimo  :  Archangeliis 
Madrignanus  Careualensis  :  ordinis  cisterciensis.  S.  D.  P.,"  and  the  dedication, 
which  extends  to  thirteen  pages,  is  dated  "  Mediolani,  Kalendis  Juniis."  It  is  a 
translation  of  the  volume  described  above. 

Sensuyt  le  nouueau  Monde  &  Nauigations.      Faictes  par 


Emeric  de  Vespuce  Florentin,  Des  pays  &  isles,  noimellement  trouuez, 
auparauant  a  no^  incongneuz.  Tant  en  lethiope  q  arrabie,  Calichut 
Et  aultres  plusieurs  regios  estrages.  Traslate  de  ytalie  en  langue 
francoyse,  par  Mathurin  du  redouer  licencie  es  loix.  xxi.  On  les  vend  a 
Paris  en  la  rue  neufue  nostre  Dante  a  lenseigne  sainct  Jehan  baptiste 
par  Denis  ianot.  [Colophon.]  Cy  finist  le  litire  intitule  le  nouueau 
Monde  &  nanigacitions  de  Aimer ic  de  Vespuee :  des  nauigations  faictes 
par  le  roy  de  Portugal  es  pays  des  mores  et  autres  regions  &•  diners  pays. 
Imprime  nouiccUement  a  Paris.    \s.  d.]    4to.    Black  letter.    O.  M. 

Title  and  table,  4  leaves  ;  a— d  in  fours  ;  e,  8  leaves  ;  f — x  in  fours. 
From  the  collections  of  Hanrott,  C.  Nodier,  and  M.  Yemeniz. 

Newe  vnbekanthe  landte  Und  ein  newe  weldte  in  kurtz  ver- 


ganger  zeythe  erfunden.  [Colophon.]  Also  hat  ein  endte  dieses  Biichlein, 
welches  ausz  welliscJicr  sprach  in  die  dewtsclien  gebraclite  vnd  gemaehte 
ist  warden,  durch  ....  Jobsten  Ruchamer  ....  Vnd  durch  mich 
Georgen  Stiichszen  zu  Niireinbergk  Gedruckte  vnd  volendte  nach  Christ i 
vnsers  lieben  lierren  geburdte.  M.ccccc.viii.  Jare,  am  Mitwoch  sancti 
Mathei,  des  heiligen  apostols  abentJie,  der  do  zvas  der  zweynzigste  tage 
des  Monadts  Septembris.    Folio.    R.  M. 

a — 1  iv  in  sixes  ;  table,  4  leaves. 

VETANCURT,  Aug.  de.    Arte  de  Lengva  Mexicana Con 

licencia  en  Mexico  por  Francisco  Rodriguez  Lupercio.    1673.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  folios  1-49,  but  folio  14  being  repeated,  there 
are  really  50  leaves  to  the  body  of  the  book.  Then  follow  8  leaves  unpaged  with 
"  Instruccion  breve  para  administrar  los  Santos  Sacrametos  ....  en  la  lengua 
Mexicana,"  &c. 


1528  VETERES—VIAGGIO. 

[VETERES  de  re  militari,  scilicet.]  Flavii  Vegetii  ....  Epitoma 
institvtorum  rei  militaris.  [Colophon.]  Imprcssiim  Rome  per  .... 
Euchariitin  Silber,  alias  Fmiick.  Anno  doniini  milleswioqiiadritzgente- 
simo  octogesuno  septimo. Aeliani  de  instruendis  aciebus  opus.  [Colo- 
phon.]   Imprcssiim  Rom^  per  .  .  .  Eiicliarinni  Silber :   alias  Franck. 

Sexti  lulii  Frontini  .  .  .  Strategematicon  liber  primus  [et 

sequentes  tres],     [Colophon.]    Impressiim  Rome  p  .  .  .  .  Encharimn 

Silber:  alias  Franck.    Anno  M.cccc.lxxxvii.  die  vero  prima  lunii. 

Modesti  libellvs  de  vocabvlis  rei  militaris [Colophon.]    /;«- 

pressitni  Rome  per  .  .  .  Eiichariinn  Silber :  alias  Franck.    Anno  domini. 
M.cccc.lxxxvii.  Septimo  Idiis  Innii.    In  I  vol.    4to.    BR.  M. 

Brunei  has  given  a  collation  of  these  pieces,  which  is  correct  except  as  to  the 
first,  to  which  he  assigns  only  fifty-seven  leaves  instead  of  fifty-eight.  The  copy  he 
saw  probably  wanted  the  first  or  dedicatory  leaf,  which  is  blank  on  the  recto. 
There  being  no  signatures  or  catchwords  its  absence  would  not  easily  be  detected. 

VIA,  JOHAN  DE.  Vita  SS.  Marini  Episcopi  Hyberno  Bavari, 
Martyris,  &  Aniani  Archidiaconi  Confessoris,  Fatronorum  Celebris 
Monasterij  in  Rota.  Per  lohan.a  Via  Doct.  Theol.  conscripta.  Monacliij, 
excudebatAdanms  Berg.    Anno  M.D.LXXIX.    4to.    o.  M. 

A — D  in  fours. 

VIAGE  desde  el  Callao  a  las  Yslas  de  Juan  Fernandez  y  Chiloe, 
y  Puertos  de  Chile,  Ano  1780-85.    Folio. 

A  MS.  on  paper,  illustrated  with  fifteen  water-colour  drawings  of  the  coast  line, 
and  five  e.\quisitely  finished  drawings  of  ships  in  pen  and  ink.  The  first  chapter  is 
headed,  "Salida  del  Puerto  de  el  Callao  i.  conducir  pertrechos  de  guerra  k  las  yslas 
de  Juan  Fernandez  y  Chilofe,  y  puertos  de  la  costa  de  Chile,  en  conserba  de  los 
Navios  de  64.  La  America  mandado  por  el  Capitan  de  Navio  Don  Antonio 
Vacaro,  comand''"  el  San  Pedro  por  el  de  igual  clase  Don  Manuel  de  Bedoya,  y  el 
Peruano  por  Don  Jose  de  Cordova." 

VIAGGI  fatti  da  Vinetia,  alia  Tana,  in  Persia,  in  India,  et  in  Co- 
stantinopoli :  con  la  descrittione  particolare  di  Citta,  Luoghi,  Siti, 
Costumi,  &  della  Porta  del  gran  Tvrco  :  &  di  tutte  le  Intrate,  spese,  & 
modo  di  gouerno  suo,  &  della  ultima  Impresa  contra  Portoghesi.  In 
Vinegia  M.D.XLIII.  [Colophon.]  /;/  Vinegia  neWanno  M.D.XLIII. 
nelle  case  de  figlivoli  di  Aldo.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Viaggi  fatti  da  Vinetia  .  ...  In  Vinegia  M.D.XL  V.    Sm. 

Svo.    R.  M. 

In  this  volume  are  contained  the  travels  of  Josaphat  Barbaro,  Ambrosio  Bar- 
baro,  Ambrosio  Contarini,  Aluigi  di  Giovanni,  and  of  two  anonymous  writers. 

VIAGGIO.    II  Viaggio  fatto  da  gli  .Spagnivoli  atorno  a'l  Monde. 
Con  Gratia  per  Anni.  XIIII.  MDXXXVI.    4to.    BR.  M. 
Title  and  preface,  4  leaves,  and  A — M  in  fours. 


VIAGGIO— VICARS.  1529 

The  last  leaf  contains  "Alcune  parole  che  vsano  le  genti  ne  la  terra  del 
Bresil."  "  Parole  del  gigante  qual  prescro  appresso  il  fiume  di  San  Juliano,"  and 
"  Parole  che  vsano  li  habitori  dell'  Isola  de  Tidore."  See  Harrisse,  "  Bib.  Amer.," 
No.  213. 

VIAGGIO  da  Venetia  al  .sancto  sepulchro  &  al  mote  Sinai  piu 
copiosamete  descrito  de  li  altri  con  disegni  de  Paesi :  Citade  :  Porti : 
&  chiesic  &  li  santi  loghi  con  molte  altre  santimonieche  qui  si  trouano 
designate  &  descrite  come  sono  ne  li  luoghi  lor  proprii.  &c.  [Colo- 
phon.]   [Venetia.'] stampato per  Nicolo  ditto  Zopino:  e  Vincentio 

conipagno  ncl  anno  de  la  incarnationc  Del  nostra  Signore.  M.ceccc.xviii. 
adi.  xix.  de  Setebrio.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts. 

A — Z  in  fours  ;  &,  4  leaves  ;  aa — gg  iii  in  fours. 

Viaggio  da  Vinegia  al  santo  Sepolcro con  additione 

di  genti,  &  animali,  che  si  trouano  da  Vinegia  fino  al  santo  Sepolcro: 
CO  il  lanieto  di  Gierusale.  Nuouamcte  aggionto.  [Colophon.]  In 
Vinegia  per  Nieolo  d'  Aristotile  detto  Zoppino.  Neglianni  del  nostra 
Signore.    MDXXX.VIII.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts. 

A — P  in  eights  ;  O,  10  leaves. 

VICARS,  John.  Mischeefes  Mysterie :  or.  Treasons  Master- 
peece,  The  Powder-plot.  Inuented  by  hellish  Malice,  prevented  by 
heauenly  Mercy  :  truely  related.  And  from  the  Latine  of  the  learned 
and  reuerend  Doctour  Herring  translated,  and  very  much  dilated.  By 
lohn  Vicars.  London,  Printed  by  E.  Griffin,  dzvelling  in  the  Little  Olde 
Bayly  neere  the  signe  of  the  Kings  head.    1617.   4to. 

IT,  4  leaves  ;  A — P  in  fours.  In  two  parts,  with  separate  titles,  but  continuous 
signatures.     In  stanzas  of  six  lines. 

This  is  an  expansion  of  Herring's  "Pietas  Pontificia,"  printed  in  Latin  verse  in 
1606  and  1609.  It  is  dedicated  by  Vicars  to  Sir  John  Lemmon,  Lord  Mayor,  Sir 
W.  Craven,  President  of  Christ's  Hospital,  the  Treasurer,  Mr.  Richard  Heath,  and 
all  the  Governors  of  that  Institution.  There  are  commendatory  verses  by  Thomas 
Salisbury,  Joshua  Sylvester,  N.B.  (Nicholas  Breton.?),  &c.  On  the  title  to  the  first 
part  is  a  woodcut  which  represents  an  eagle  [Lord  Monteagle]  bringing  a  letter  in 
its  beak  to  King  James,  seated  on  his  throne  ;  the  title  to  the  second  part  has  a 
cut  representing  the  discovery  of"  Infernall  Fauks." 

Babel's  Balm  :   or  the    Honey-combe   of  Romes   Religion. 

With  A  ncate  draining  and  straining-out  of  the  rammish  Honey  thereof. 
Sung  in  tenne  most  elegant  Elegies  in  Latine,  by  that  most  worthy 
Christian  Satyrist,  Master  George  Good-winne.  And  Translated  into 
tenne  English  Satyres,  by  the  Muses  most  vnworthy  Eccho,  lohn 
Vicars.  A  vgvstine.  Pride  hath  an  appetite  of  Vnitie  and  Omnipotcncy. 
Imprinted  at  London  by  George  Purslowe  for  Nathanaell  Browne,  and 
are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop,  at  the  vpper  end  of  the  long  Walke  necre 
Little  S.  Bartholomews.    1624.   4to. 


1530  VICARS. 

C,  4  leaves,  title  on  C  2  ;  A — R  2  in  fours  ;  C— Q  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  William,  Earl  of  Pembroke,  in  verse.  Goodwin's  dedication  in 
prose  to  Sir  Robert  Nanton  is  retained  and  translated.  An  acrostic  on  Goodwin's 
name  follows,  then  some  more  verses  by  Vicars,  and  some  complimentary  lines  by 
Thomas  Salisbury. 

VICARS,  John.  Englands  Remembrancer,  or,  A  thankfull  ac- 
knowledgment of  Parliamentary  Mercies  to  our  English-Nation. 
Wherein  is  contained  a  breife  enumeration  of  all,  or  the  most  of  Gods 
free  favours  and  choise  Blessings  multiplied  on  us  since  this  Parliament 
first  began.  By  lohn  Vicars.  London,  Printed  for  T/ionias  Under/nil, 
and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  Bible  in  Wood-street.  M.DCXLI.  4to. 
Four  leaves.     In  verse.     With  marginal  notes. 

A  Looking-Glasse  for  Malignants  :    or,   Gods  hand  against 

God-haters.  Containing  A  most  terrible  yet  true  relation  of  the  many 
and  fearefull  personall  examples  (in  these  present  times,  since  the  yeere 
1640.)  of  Gods  most  evident  and  immediate  wrath  against  our  malevo- 
lent Malignants.  Together  with  a  Caveat  for  Cowards  and  unworthy, 
(either  timorous  or  treacherous)  Newters.  Collected  For  Gods  honour, 
and  the  ungodlies  horrour,  by  John  Vicars.  [Quotations.]  London, 
Printed  for  John  Rothzvell,  at  the  signe  of  the  Sunne  in  Pauls  Church- 
yard.   1643.    4to.    The  edges  uncut. 

A — F  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  John  Wollastone,  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  and  to  Lady 
WoUastone. 

Magnalia    Dei    Anglicana.     Or,    England's    Parliamentary 

Chronicle.  Containing  a  full  and  faithful!  Series,  and  Exact  Narration 
of  all  the  most  memorable  Parliamentary  Mercies,  and  mighty  (if  not 
miraculous)  Deliverances,  great  and  glorious  Victories,  and  admirable 
Successes,  of  the  Counsels  and  Armies  of  this  present  Parliament, 
both  by  Sea  and  by  Land  .  .  .  Collected  cheifly  for  the  high  Honour 
of  our  Wonder  working  God  ;  and  for  the  unexpressible  Comfort  of  all 
Cordiall  English  Parliamentarians.  By  the  most  unworthy  Admirer  of 
Them,  John  Vicars.  [Quotation  from  Gen.  xlix.  22-4.]  Imprinted  at 
London  for  J.  Rotlnvell  .  .  .  and  T ho.  Under  hill  .  .  .   1646.    4to.    R. 

In  four  parts.  Parts  1-2  :  A — Mmm  in  fours,  besides  the  general  title  to  the 
volume  as  above.  Part  3  ("  God's  Arke,"  &c.) :  A — Ss  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 
Part  4  :  title  and  dedications,  3  leaves  ;  **,  4  leaves  ;  *„*,  3  leaves,  containing  a 
Paraphrase  of  the  Song  of  Moses  ;  B — Dd  in  fours;  Aaa — Gggg  3  in  fours.  The 
last  leaf  of  part  2  contains  anagrams  and  epigrams  on  the  Governor  and  Mayor  of 
Gloucester,  omitted  in  their  right  place. 

A  Sight  of  y  Trans-actions  of  these  latter  yeares  Emble- 

mized  with  engrauen  plats  which  men  may  read  with  out  Spectacles. 
Arc  to  be  sould  by  Thomas  lenner  in  his  shop  at  the  old  Exchange. 
[1645.]    4to.    O.  M. 


VICARS— VICE  LLUS.  1531 

A — D  in  fours,  including  the  engraved  title.  There  are  several  copper-plates  on 
the  letterpress. 

The  last  event  mentioned  in  the  text  is  of  the  5th  April,  1645.  At  the  end 
occurs  :  "  Collected  by  John  Vicars." 

VICARS,  John.  England'.s  Worthies.  Under  whom  all  the  Civill 
and  Bloudy  Warres  since  Anno  1642,  to  Anno  1647,  are  related. 
Wherein  are  described  the  severall  Battails,  Encounters,  and  Assaults 
of  Cities,  Townes,  and  Castles  at  severall  times  and  Places  ;  so  that  the 
Reader  may  behold  the  time,  yeare,  and  event  of  every  Battle,  Skir- 
mish and  Assault.  Wherein  London-Apprentices  had  not  the  least 
share.  As  Also,  Severall  Victories,  by  Sea  by  the  Noble  Admirall, 
Robert  Earle  of  Warwick.  [Quotations  from  Heb.  ii.  and  Psal.  xliv.  3.] 
London,  Printed  for  J.  RotJnvell  at  the  Sun  and  Fountain  in  Pauls 
Churchyard,  1647.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — G  7  in  eights.  A  duplicate  leaf,  A  2,  is  inserted  in  this  copy  with  a  brilliant 
impression  of  the  portrait  of  the  Earl  of  Essex  and  a  variation  in  the  inscription. 

This  volume  contains  eighteen  portraits,  some  of  which  are  by  W.  Hollar,  all  on 
the  letterpress.     From  Sir  W.  Tite's  collection. 

VICTOR,  Sextus  Aurelius.  Historia  Romana  cum  notis  vario- 
rum.   Traj.  ad  Rlienum.    1696.    8vo. 

Corn.  Nepos.    Vom  Ursprunge  des  Romischen  Reiches,  den 

sieben  Kiinigen  wie  die  regiert,  auch  wie  sie  zuletzt  vertrieben  seind 
worden,  vnd  das  Burgermaisterthumb  angefangen.  Darnach  folgt  das 
leben  vnd  thaten  ettlicher  wardlicher  vnd  herlicher  Burgermaister  bisz 
uff  Gr.  Pompeium  Magnum.  Item  C.  Crispus  Sallustius  von  der 
zusammenrottung  Cataline  &c.  Straszbiirg,  durch.  Jac.  Cammerlander 
von  Mcntz.    [1535.]    Folio.    Woodcuts. 

Fifty-six  leaves. 

The  first  named  work,  though  described  as  Cornelius  Nepos,  is  in  fact  a  trans- 
lation of  Aurelius  Victor. 

VIES  DES  PHILOSOPHES.    4to. 

MS.  of  French  execution,  written  on  sixty-eight  leaves  of  vellum.  Probably 
executed  about  the  end  of  the  fifteenth  century.  It  contains  the  Hves  of  twenty  of 
the  Greek  philosophers,  beginning  with  Solon  and  ending  with  Theophrastus.  At 
the  beginning  of  each  life  is  a  conventional  portrait  of  the  subject  of  the  biography, 
well  executed  in  gold  and  colours. 

At  the  end  of  the  book  is  the  inscription,  "  Ce  lyure  est  amoy,  Gaillarde,"  and 
on  the  fly-leaf,  "  Ce  presant  liure  est  de  berthelemy  Pancatier."  It  was  subse- 
quently in  the  collection  of  Sir  W.  Tite. 

[VIGELLUS,  SEU  NiGELLUS  WiRECKER.]  Brunellus  in  Speculo 
stultoif..  [At  the  end.]  Brunelli  in  speculo  stultorum  Finis  adest 
feliciter  Amen.    \_Sine  ulla  notd.^   4to.   R. 


1532  VIGELLUS—VILLALVA. 

a — f  in  eights  ;  g  &  h,  6  leaves  each. 

On  a  I  is  a  large  woodcut  representing  "Galienus,"  "  Brunellus,"  and  a  Fool 
who  holds  up  to  Brunellus  (represented  as  an  ass)  a  miiTor  in  which  his  head  is 
reflected.  Both  the  Grenville  copy,  and  that  described  by  Brunet,  must  from 
the  description  of  them  be  deficient  of  this  leaf.  Brunet  speaks  of  this  edition  as 
printed  by  Koelhoff  of  Cologne  about  1480,  but  the  presence  of  a  title  would  make 
1490  a  more  probable  date. 

[VIGELLUS,  SEU  NiGELLUS  WiRECKER.]  Brunellus  Vigelli,  & 
Vetula  Ovidii.  Seu :  Opuscula  duo  Auctorum  Incertorum,  Prius  qui- 
dem  Vigelli  qui  fertur,  Speculum  Stultorum  ;  Posterius  vero  libri  tres 
de  Vetula  Ovidii,  falso  sic  dicti  ....  Anno  cbbclxii.  Wolferbyti  Typis 
Sterniis.    Sm.  8vo. 

Double  frontispiece,  title,  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves  ;  A — P  5  in  eights.  Be- 
tween I  3  and  I  4  is  a  frontispiece  to  the  "  Vetula  Ovidii." 

VIGERIUS  SAONENSIS,  Marcus.  Marci  Vigerii  Saonensls 
San.  Mariae  transtibe.  Praesbi.  Car.  SenoGallien.  Decachordvm  chris- 
tianvm  Jvlio.  11.  Pont.  Max.  dicatvm.  [Colophon.]  Hieroiiymus  Son- 
ciniis  in  Vrbe  Fani  his  caracteribus  impi'essit.  die  x  Aitgusti,  M.D.  VII. 
.  .  .  Folio.     Woodcuts.    Printed  on  vellum.    O.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves,  the  last  blank ;  AA — BB  in  eights ;  a,  10  leaves  ; 
b — z  in  eights  ;  &,  8  leaves  ;  A,  10  leaves  ;  B — E  in  eights  ;  F,  10  leaves. 

VILLAGRA,  Gasp.\r  de.  Historia  de  la  Nveva  Mexico.  En 
Alcala,  par  Luys  Martinez  Gra7ide.    1610.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  24  leaves  ;  on  the  recto  of  the  leaf  following  the  title  is  a 
rude  woodcut  portrait  of  the  author.  A — Nn  in  eights.  On  Nn  viii  is  the  colophon, 
the  reverse  blank. 

VILLALON,  Christoual  de.  Prouechoso  tratado  de  cabios  y 
cotrataciones  d'  mercaderes,  y  reprouacion,  de  vsura.  Heche  por  el 
liceciado  Christoual  de  Uillalo.  Prouechoso  para  conoscer  las  tratates 
en  que  pecca,  y  necessario  para  los  cofessores  saberlos  juzgar.  Ua 
aiiadidos  los  danos  que  ay  en  los  arrtdamietos  d'los  obispados  y 
benefficios  eclesiasticos,  Co  vn  tratadico  d'los  puechos  q  se  sacan  de  la 
Confession.  .  .  .  Afio  de  1546.  [Colophon.]  Impresso  en  .  .  .  Ualladolid 
.  .  .  En  la  officina  d'  Francisco  fernandes  d'cordoua  iinpressor.  Aca- 
bosse  en  qnze  dias  d'l  mes  d'Agosto  Afw  de.  1546.  4to.  Black  letter. 
A — E  in  eights  ;  F  and  G  in  twelves,  F  1 2  blank. 

VILLALVA  DE  REY.  Copia  de  carta,  Embiada  de  la  villa  de 
Villalva  de  Rcy  h  la  Senora  Marquesa  de  Ariza,  dandola  cuenta,  como 
en  aqucUa  Villa  se  halla  un  religioso  de  N.  P.  San  Agustin  endemo- 
niado,  y  como  conjurandolo  ha  declarado  el  buen  sucesso  de  Felipe  V. 
y  los  grandes  milagros,  y  prodigios  que  ha  olrada  nuestra  Senora  de 
los  portentos.    En  Madrid.    1706.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 


VILLE-HARDOUTN— VINCENT.  1533 

VILI-E-HARDOUIN,  Geoffroy.     L'Histoirc,  ov  Chroniqvc  dv 

Seignevr  Geoffroy  dc  Ville-Hardviii Representee  de   mot  a 

mot  en  ancienne  langue  Fran^oise,  d'un  vieil  exemplaire  escrit  4  la 
main,  qui  se  trouue  dans  les  ancicns  archiues  de  la  Serenissime  Re- 
publique  de  Venise  :  Contenant  la  conqveste  de  I'Empire  dc  Constanti- 
nople faicte  par   des  Barons  Francois,  confederez  &   vnis  auec  les 

Seigneurs  Venitiens,  I'an    1204 A  Lyon,  par  Its  Iieriticrs  de 

GuiUaunic  Rouille.    i6oi.    Folio. 

Title;  pp.  1-80  ;  table,  4  leaves,  3  plates.  Second  title  ;  "  Extraict  des  Annales," 
with  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  pp.  5-68  ;  table,  4  leaves. 

From  the  Yemeniz  collection. 

VINCENT,  Augustine.  A  Discoverie  of  Errovrs  in  the  first 
Edition  of  the  Catalogue  of  Nobility,  Pvblishcd  by  Raphe  Brooke, 
Yorke  Herald,  1619.  And  Printed  herewith  word  for  word,  according 
to  that  edition.  With  a  Continuance  of  the  Successions  from  1619 
vntill  this  present  yeare,  1622.  At  the  end  whereof  is  annexed  a  Re- 
view of  a  later  Edition,  by  him  stolne  into  the  world,  1621.  By 
Avgvstine  Vincent,  Rouge-croix  Pursuiuant  of  Amies.  Procaptu  Lec- 
toris  habait  sua  fata  libclli.  Tcrcnt.  Maurus.  London,  Printed  by 
William  laggard,  dwelling  in  Barbiean,  and  are  there  to  be  sold. 
M.DC.XXIL    Folio.    Woodcuts. 

Title  and  dedication  to  James  I.,  2  leaves  ;  dedication  to  the  Earl  of  Arundel, 
2  leaves  ;  To  Raphe  Brooke,  Yorke  Herald,  3  leaves  ;  The  Printer,  3  leaves  ;  To 
my  singular  good  Friend,  Mr.  Augustine  Vincent,  signed  John  Selden,  6  leaves  ; 
Opinions  of  friends  touching  the  work,  in  verse  and  prose,  6  leaves  ;  A — F  in  fours  ; 
G,  5  leaves  ;  H — M  in  fours  ;  N,  5  leaves  ;  O — V  in  fours  ;  X,  5  leaves  ;  Y — Ss  in 
fours  ;  Tt,  5  leaves  ;  Uu — Xxxx  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  having  the  Errata. 

VINCENT,  Margaret.  A  pitilcsse  Mother.  That  most  vn- 
naturally  at  one  time  mur[thered]  two  of  her  owne  Children  at  Acton 
within  sixe  miles  f[rom]  London  vppon  holy  thursday  last  1616.  The 
ninth  of  May.  Beeing  a  Gentlewoman  named  Margret  Vincent,  wife 
of  Mr.  lames  Vincent,  of  the  same  Towne.  With  her  Examination, 
Confession  and  true  discouery  of  a[ll  the]  proceedings  in  the  said 
bloody  accident.  Whereunto  is  added  Andersons  Repentance,  [who] 
was  executed  at  Tiburne  the  18.  of  May  being  Whitson-Eve.  i[6i6.] 
Written  in  the  time  of  his  prisonment  in  Newgate.  {^London,  16 16.] 
4to. 

A — C  in  fours.     A  large  woodcut  on  the  title. 

The  narrative  of  the  murder  is  in  prose,  and  printed  in  black  letter ;  the  Re- 
pentance of  William  Anderson  is  in  roman  letter,  in  stanzas  of  6  lines. 

The  only  copy  known.  The  imprint  has  been  cut  off  from  the  bottom  of  the  title. 
On  the  last  leaf  is  the  device  of  John  Smethwick. 

VINCENT,  Samuel.  The  Young  Gallant's  Academy.  Or, 
Directions  how  he  should  behave  himself  in  all  Places  and  Company. 

8  z 


1534  VINCE  N  T—  VIN  CIOLO. 

As  I.  In  an  Ordinary.  2.  In  a  Play-house.  3.  In  a  Tavern.  4.  As  he 
passes  along  the  Street  all  hours  of  the  Night.  5.  And  how  to  avoid 
Constables  Interrogatories.  To  which  is  added,  The  Character  of  a 
Town-Huff.  Together  with  The  Character  of  a  right  Generous  and  well- 
bred  Gentleman.  By  Sam.  Vincent.  London,  Printed  by  J.  C.  for  R. 
Mills  at  tlie  Pestle  and  Mortar  without  Temple-Bar.    1674.    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  10  leaves  ;  B — H  2  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  George  Doddington,  Esq.,  by  Vincent,  who  does  not  acknowledge 
his  very  great  obligations  to  Decker's  "  Gull's  Horn  Booke,"  1609,  of  which  the 
larger  portion  of  these  pages  is  an  adaptation. 

VINCENT  DE  BEAUVAIS.  Le  premier  Volume  de  Vincent 
Miroir  hystorial.  Nouuellemet  imprime  a  Paris.  Ilz  se  vendent  a 
Paris  en  la  grant  salle  dn  palais  pres  la  premiere  parte.  Mil.v.c.xxxi. 
[Colophon  to  vol.  v.]  Cy  fine  le.  xxxvii^.  &  dernier  linre  de  Vincent 
miroir  historial  Nouuellement  imprime  a  Paris  par  Nicolas  conteatt. 
Et  flit  acheue  dintprimer  le  .xvi\  ionr  dii  moys  de  mars  Lan  Mil  cinq 
CCS.  xxxi.     5  vols.    Folio.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts.    G.  M. 

Vol.  i. :  Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  A — Z  in  sixes  ;  a— p  in  sixes  ;  q,  8 
leaves.  Vol.  ii. :  Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  AA — XX  in  sixes  ;  aa — yy  4  in 
sixes.  Vol.  iii. :  Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  AAA — XXX  in  sixes  ;  aaa — 
vvv  5  in  sixes.  Vol.  iv. :  Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  AAAA — XXXX  in 
sixes  ;  aaaa — nnnn  4  in  sixes.  Vol.  v. :  Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  AAAAA 
— XXXXX  in  sixes  ;  aaaaa — 00000  in  sixes  ;  ppppp,  8  leaves. 

Vincencius    de  fine    mudi.    [At    the    end.]     Explicit    sermo 

sancti  Vincencij  ordinis  predicatorum  de  fine  mundi.  canonizati  anno 
domini  M. cccc.lv.    \_Sine  loco  ant  anno.]    4to. 

a,  8  leaves  ;  b,  6  leaves  ;  c,  4  leaves. 

VINCIOLO,  Frederic  de.  Les  singvliers  et  novveau.x  povr- 
traicts,  dv  Seignevr  Federic  [sic]  de  Vinciolo  Venitien,  pour  toutes 
sortes  d'ouurages  de  Lingerie.  Dedie  a  la  Royne  Douairiere  de  France. 
De  rechef  et  povr  la  troisieme  fois  avgmentez,  outre  le  reseau  premier 
&  le  point  coupp6  &  lacis,  de  plusieurs  beaux  &  differens  portrais 
de  reseau  de  point  c6t6,  auec  le  nombre  des  mailles,  chose  non  encor' 
veue  ny  inuentee.  A  Paris  Par  lean  le  Clerg,  rue  Saint  lean  de  Latran, 
a  la  Salemandre.    Avec priuilege  du  Roy.    1599.    4to.    BR.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  sigs.  B — .S  in  fours.  At  sig.  L  is  a  second 
title  exactly  the  same  as  the  first.  Then  follows  a  third  title — Les  Secondes  OEvvres, 
et  subtiles  inventions  de  Lingerie  du  Seigneur  Federic  de  Vinciolo  Venitien  ;  Nou- 
uellement augmentt?  de  plusieurs  carrez  de  point  de  rebort  Dediees  a  Madame, 
Soeur  vniqve  dv  Roy.  Ou  sont  representees  plusieurs  figures  de  Reseau,  nombres 
de  Carrez  &  bordures  tous  differents,  !e  tout  de  poinct  contd  auec  autres  sortes  de 
Carrez  de  nouuelle  inuention  non  encores  veus.  A  Paris,  Par  lean  tc  Clerc,  nic 
Sainct  lean  de  Latran,  (I  la  Salemandre.  1599.  Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ; 
sigs.  B— R  in  fours.     On  the  reverse  of  A  11  is  a  portrait,  beautifully  engraved  on 


VINES— VIRGELLT.  1535 

copper,  of  Catherine  de  Bourbon,  with  the  engraver's  monogram  C.   L.  ;  this  is 
printed  separately,  and  stucl<  on  within  a  woodcut  wreath. 
This  edition  is  altogether  unnoticed  by  Brunei. 

VINES,  RlCH.\RD.  The  Hearse  of  the  Renowned,  The  Right 
Honourable  Robert  Earle  of  Essex  and  Ewe,  Viscount  Hereford.  .  .  . 
Lord  Gcnerall  of  the  Armies  raised  for  the  defence  of  Kings  and  Par- 
liaments. As  it  was  represented  in  a  Sermon,  preached  in  the  Abbey 
Church  at  Westminster,  at  the  Magnificent  Solemnity  of  his  Funerall, 
Octob.  26,  1646.  By  Richard  Vines.  .  .  .  Published  by  Order  of  the 
House  of  Peeres.  London,  Printed  by  T.  R.  and  T.  M.  for  Henry 
Scile,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  over  against  Dnnstans  Clinrch  in 
Fleet-street.    1646.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

VINTNERS.    A  Reply  to  a  most  untrue  Relation  made  and  set 
forth  in  Print,  by  Certaine  Vintners,  in  excuse  of  their  Wine  Proiect. 
Printed  in  the  Yeare,  1641.    4to.     T lie  edges  nncut. 
A — C  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  Vintners  Answer  to  some  Scandalous  Phamphlets  Pub- 


lished, (as  is  supposed)  by  Richard  Kilvert ;  And  abetted  in  some 
points,  by  his  Brother  Roger,  and  Alderman  Abel.  Wherein  the 
Vintners  vindicate  their  owne  Reputations  to  the  world,  for  satisfac- 
tion of  all  such  as  know  not  the  said  Kilverts  Wretched  and  lewd  con- 
versation, or  have  credited  his  foule  impudent  defamations  suggested 
against  them.  Magna  est  Veritas,  &^  prevalebit.  London,  Printed, 
Anno  1642.    4to.     T lie  edges  unent. 

B — E  in  fours,  and  the  title-page. 

VIRDUNGUS,  Jo.  Prognosticon.  Svper  novis  stvpendis  &  prius 
non  visis  Planetarum  coniuctionibus  magnis  Anno  dni  M.D.XXIV. 
futuris.  In  honorem   Domini   mudi  diui  Caroli,  Coesaris  &  Romanoi^. 

Imperatoris Editum  Anno  Domini  MDXXI.    Durabitq,  hoc 

Prognosticon  ad  Annos  usq,  dni  1560.  aut  ad  1563.  annos  fere.  Op- 
penlieyvi.  [1521.]    4to.     Woodcuts. 

A — D  in  fours. 

VIRET,  Pierre.    Familiere  et  ample  instruction  en  la  doctrine 
chretienne,  &  principalement  touchant  la  diuine  prouidence  &  predes- 
tination, faite  en  forme  de  dialogues.    \s.  /.]    RI.D.LIX.    Sm.  8vo. 
Title  and  preface,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-960. 

VIRGELLI,  Emilio.  II  primo  libro  de  Madrigali  a  cinqve  voci 
Di    Emilio  Virgelli    Maestro  di   Capella   di  Camerino.     Nouamente 


1 536  VIRGILIUS. 

Composto   &    dato  in  luce.      In   Venetia  appresso   Angela   Gardano. 
M.D.LXXXXIIII.    5  parts  in  i  vol.    4to.    R.  M. 

A— P  in  fours,  including  the  titles  to  the  different  parts  Canto,  Tenore,  Alto, 
Basso,  Quinto. 

VIRGILIUS  MARO,  Publius.    Opera.    Folio,    o.  M. 

MS.  of  Italian  execution  on  213  leaves  of  vellum,  beautifully  written  in  a  semi- 
gothic  hand.  The  first  page  has  an  interlaced  illuminated  border,  and  there  are 
numerous  capitals  illuminated  in  the  same  style. 

[Opera,  cum  aliis  opusculis.]    [Colophon.]    Presens  hec  Virgilii 

impressio  poete  clarissimi  in  alma  iirbe  Roma  facta  est. per  Vdal- 

ricuni  Galium  &  Simonem  de  Liica.  Anno  domini  M.CCCC.LXXiii. 
Die  uero.  HIT.  misis  Noicembris.    Folio.    BR.  M. 

This  third  Roman  edition  is  said  by  Brunet  to  be  equal  in  rarity  to  the  two 
which  preceded  it,  and  to  be  of  great  importance  in  that  a  great  number  of  the  pas- 
sages wanting  in  the  former  editions  are  here  inserted.  The  collation  given  by  M. 
Brunet  is  not  quite  correct,  as  he  makes  only  265  leaves,  including  the  two  which 
are  blank,  whereas  this  copy  contains  267.  The  discrepancy  appears  to  be  in  the 
last  part,  which  contains  the  13th  book  of  the  vEneid,  the  Priapeia,  Catalecta,  &c., 
and  a  leaf  of  register,  which  M.  Brunet  makes  to  consist  of  only  51  leaves  ;  but  it 
has  really  53,  and  should  have  that  number  according  to  the  register  at  the  end  of 
tlie  book. 

[Virgilii  Opera.]    [Colophon.]   Impressum  parmce  opera  &  im- 

pensis  Andrea  Portilice  Anno  Domini  M.CCCCLXXIX.  Quarto  Idus 
Mail    Folio.    R.  M. 

a,  b,  10  leaves  each,  a  i  blank  ;  c,  d,  e  in  eights ;  f — m  in  tens  ;  n,  8  leaves  ;  o, 
10  leaves ;  p,  8  leaves  ;  q — u  in  tens  ;  x,  8  leaves  ;  y,  10  leaves. 

M.  Brunei's  collation  is  so  incorrect,  that  he  had  doubtless  been  obliged  to  take 
it  at  second-hand. 

Vergilivs.     [Colophon.]      Venetiis  ex  aedibus  Aldi  Romani 


mense  Aprili.    M.DI.    8vo.    BR.  M. 

First  Aldine  edition.  This  tall  and  fine  copy  is  from  the  collection  of  Bilibald 
Pirckheimer,  whose  library  was  purchased  by  Henry  Howard,  Duke  of  Norfolk, 
and  presented  to  the  Royal  Society  of  London.     It  measures  61  in.  by  3}. 

Virgilivs  [ex  recensione  A.  Naugerii.]    [Colophon.]     Venetiis 


in  aedibus  Aldi  et  Andreae  Soceri  anno  M.D.XIIII  mense  Octobri. 

8V0.     R.  M. 

This  is  the  third  Aldine  edition,  and  the  second  with  the  date  of  1514,  having 
a  more  correct  text  than  the  first  issue  of  the  same  year,  and  two  blank  leaves  at 
the  end  in  the  place  of  the  errata. 

P.  Virgilii  Maronis   Opera.     Ex  antiquis  Monimentis  illus- 

trata,  Cura,  Studio  &  Sumtibus  Henrici  Justice.  .  .  .  Prostant  venules 
Apud  J.  L.  de  Boubcrs  Bruxcllis.    [j.  «.]    5  vols.     Roy.  8vo.    R. 
The  text  is  engraved  throughout,  and  is  illustrated  with  numerous  plates. 


VIRGILIUS.  1537 

VIRGILIUS  MARO,  Publius.  Vcrgilius.  Si  clegantiam  Si  fa- 
cundiam  :  Si  prudentiam,  Si  exiles  Si  fecundas :  Sidcniq,  graucs  Sen- 
tentias  scire  cupis  Vergilium  egito.  Cum  bonis  ambula  Mors  pctoru 
pcssiina  Sic  vtere  tuo  vt  alieno  non  egeas.  {Sine  loco  aut  a/mo.]  Sm. 
sqr.  vol.  (4  ill.  by  3  in.)     Woodcuts.     R.  M. 

This  is  probably  the  identical  copy  through  which,  according  to  Brunei,  the 
edition  was  first  described  by  M.  Potier  in  1856.  (IVlanuel,  vol.  v.,  col.  1278-9). 
It  was  printed  at  Paris  about  1 525-30.  On  the  verso  of  the  last  leaf  is  the  printer's 
device. 

P.    Virgilii    Maronis    nunc    emcndatiora   [ex    recensione    D. 


Heinsii.]   Lngd.Batavor.Ex  officiiiaEheviriana.   1636.   Sm.  8vo.   R.  M. 

P.  Virgilii  Maronis  Opera :  Nic.  Heins.  Dan.  F.  E  membranis 

compluribus  iisque   antiquissimis  recensuit.     Avistelodaini,   Ex  offic. 
Elzeviriaua.  1676.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Opera  cum  notis  variorum.    Lugd.  Bat.    1680.     3  vols.    8vo. 

Opera  ex  editione  N.  Heinsii  et  P.  Burmanni.    Ainstcl.  /{pud 


J.  Wetsteniuni.     1744.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

Opera.    Birminghamia.    Typis  Joliannis  Baskerville.    iy66. 


8vo.    R.  M. 

Opera  varietate  lectionis  et  perpetua  adnotatione  illustratus 

a  C.  G.  Heyne.    Lipsice  1800.    6  vols.    8vo.    Large  paper.    BL.  M. 

The  Nyne  fyrst  Bookes  of  the  Eneidos  of  Virgil  converted 

into  Englishe  vearse  by  Thomas  Phaer  Doctour  of  Phisike,  with  so 
muche  of  the  tenthe  Booke,  as  since  his  death  coulde  be  founde  in 
unperfit  papers  at  his  house  in  Kilgarran  forest  in  Penbroke  shyre. 
Prmted  at  London  by  Rouland  Hall,  for  Nicholas  Englande.  1563. 
4to.    Black  letter.    R. 

*,  4  leaves,  with  title-page,  dedication,  and  "A  generall  somme";  A — U  2  in 
fours  ;  Aa — Gg  in  fours. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  ryght  honorable  and  my  verye  good  Lorde  Syr  Nicholas 
Bacon  knyght,  Lorde  Keeper  of  the  great  Seale  of  Englande,"  by  William  Wight- 
man,  who  dates  from  London,  the  6th  of  July,  1562.  This  dedication  contains  the 
following  interesting  information  :  "  Whitest  God  gaue  lyfe  and  health  to  Thomas 
Phaer  Doctour  of  Phisike,  I  had  some  moore  frendly  familiaritie  with  him  then 
moste  men  had.  In  whych  respect  he  did  before  his  last  departynge  downe  from 
hence  into  Penbroke  shire  of  speciall  trust  leaue  in  my  handes  the  eyght  and  nynth 
bookes  of  Virgilles  Eneidos,  by  him  translated  into  Englyshe  verse.  And  promised 
to  vse  all  hys  possible  diligence  for  the  finishing  of  the  other  three  bookes  then 
vtterly  vnbegonne  :  Declarynge  moreouer  vnto  me  that  hys  verye  mynde  and  pur- 
pose was  not  onely  to  prynt  the  former  part  agayne  for  reformation  of  some  faultes 
overslypt  vpon  the  first  impression,  but  also  hauying  finished  the  same  to  dedicate 
the  whole  worke  vnto  your  Lordship  ....  Albeit,  it  pleased  God  to  preuent  hym 
by  death  ....  I  do  herewith  present  vnto  your  honour  the  first  seuen  bookes 


1538  VIRGILIUS. 

newly  prynted,  the  two  latter  bookes  as  I  had  them  with  his  owne  hande  roughly 
■written,  not  throughly  corrected,  and  so  much  of  the  tenth  booke  as  vpon  diligent 
searche  emongst  his  secrete  writynges  at  hys  house  in  kilgarron  foreste  in  Penbroke 
shire  my  selfe  coulde  fynde  or  come  by.  Marie  it  should  appcare  by  the  two  verses 
in  the  ende  of  this  booke  by  hym  translated  upon  his  death  bed  the  very  day  before 
he  dyed,  which  he  sent  vnto  me  subscribed  with  his  left  hand  (the  vse  of  the  right 
hande  beyng  taken  awaye,  through  the  hurte  ^vhereof  he  dyed)  that  he  had  gone  so 
much  further  as  those  verses  be  in  Virgilles  tenth  booke  " 

The  two  verses  here  referred  to  are  on  the  recto  of  the  last  leaf  but  one,  with 
the  heading,  "  The  two  verses  which  Thomas  Phaer  did  the  daye  before  his  death 
translate,  and  sende  to  William  Wightman  Receyuour  of  South  Wales,"  and  they 
are  subscribed,  "  Thomas  Phaer  olim  tuus  nunc  dei." 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

VIRGILIUS  MARO,  Publius.  The  .xiii.  Bookes  of  ^neidos. 
The  first  twelue  beeinge  the  woorke  of  the  diuine  Poet  Virgil  Marc, 
and  the  thirtenth  the  supplement  of  Maphseus  Vegius.  Translated 
into  English  verse  to  the  fyrst  third  part  of  the  tenth  Booke,  by 
Thomas  Phaer  Esquire  :  and  the  residue  finished,  and  now  the  second 
time  newly  set  forth  for  the  delite  of  such  as  are  studious  in  Poetrie  : 
By  Thomas  Twyne,  Doctor  in  Physicke.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Wil- 
liam Hotv,for  Abraham  Veale,  diuelling  in  Paules  Church yeard,  at  tJie 
signe  of  the  Lambe.    1584.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — V  in  eights ;  X,  4  leaves,  X  4  blank ;  besides  title  and  three  other  leaves 
before  A. 

Dedicated  by  Thomas  Twyne  "  To  the  Right  Worshipfull  Maister  Robert 
Sackeuill  Esquire,  most  worthie  Sonne  and  heire  apparant  to  the  Right  honorable 
Syr  Thomas  Sackeuill  Knight,  Lorde  Buckehurst."  He  dates  "  At  my  house  in 
Lewis,  this  first  of  lanuarie.  1584."  "  Virgils  Life,  set  forth  as  it  is  supposed,  by 
Aelius  Donatus,  and  done  into  English,"  follows  the  address  "  To  the  gentle  and 
courteous  Readers." 

The  First  Fovre  Bookes  of  Virgils  .^neis,  Translated  into 

English  Heroicall  Verse,  by  Richard  Stanyhvrst  :  With  other  Poeticall 
deuises  thereto  annexed.  At  London,  Imprinted  by  Henrie  Bynneman 
dwelling  in  Thames  streate  neare  vnto  Baynardes  Castell.  A  nno  Do7nini, 
1583.    8vo.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

A — H  4  in  eights. 

Dedicated  by  the  author  "  To  the  Right  Honovrable  my  very  Loving  Brother 
the  Lorde  Baron  of  Dvnsanye."  See  Mr.  Collier's  "  Bibl.  Cat.,"  ii.  386-7.  The 
present  is  a  reprint  of  the  original  edition  of  1582,  which  issued  from  the  press  at 
Leyden,  and  of  which  only  two  copies  (one  not  quite  perfect)  are  now  known.  A 
copy,  however,  occurs  in  the  Harleian  catalogue. 

The  Heber  and  Corser  copy,  with  a  long  note  by  Mr.  Heber  as  to  the  Leyden 
edition. 

[On  a  2.]    a  Loneur  de  dieu  tout  puissant  d'  la  glorieuse 

vicrgc  marie  mere  d'  toute  grace,  i  a  la  vtilite  x  prouffit  de  toute  la 
police  mondaine  ce  present  liure  compile  par  virgille  tressubtil  i  in- 
genieux  orateur  z  poete  intitule  esneydes  a  este  translate  de  latin  en 


VIRGILIUS.  1539 

comun  lagaige  auql  pourrot  to®  valercux  princes  %  aultrcs  nobles  veoir 
molt  de  valereux  faictz  darmes.     Et  aussi  est  Ic  pnt  liure  ncccssaire  a 

to^  citoyes  7  habitas  en  villcs  i  chateaulx [Colophon.]    Cy 

finit  Ic  liure  dcs  ciieydcs  compile  par  Virgille  Icqiiel  a  estc  translate  de 
latin  en  franco  is :  Iniprinie  a  lyon  par  niaistre  Guillanine  k  roy  le 
dernier  tour  de  septembre  Lan  mil  quatre  cens.  Ixxxiii.  Folio.  Black 
letter.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

a — c  in  eights,  the  first  leaf  blank ;  d — g  in  sixes  ;  h — 1  in  eights  ;  m,  6  leaves, 
the  last  blank.     A  most  beautiful  copy,  full  of  rough  leaves. 

The  book  is  not  really  a  translation  of  Virgil's  ^neid,  but  a  prose  romance 
founded  on  Virgil's  poem. 

VIRGILIUS  MARO,  Publius.  [On  B  i.]  To  the  honour  of 
god  almyghty/  and  to  the  gloryous  vyrgyne  Marye  moder  of  alle 
grace/  and  to  the  vtylyte  i  prouffyt  of  all  the  policye  mondayne.  this 
presente  booke  compyled  by  virgylc  ryght  subtyl  and  Ingen3'oiis 
oratour  7  poete/  Intytuled  Eneydos.  hath  be  translated  oute  of  latyn 
in  to  comyn  langage.  In  whiche  may  alle  valyaunt  prynces  and  other 
nobles  see  many  valorous  fayttes  of  armes.  And  also  this  present 
boke  is  necessarye  to  all  cytezens  Thabytaunts  in  tovvnes  and  castelles/ 

[Colophon.]     Here  fynysskcth  the  boke  of  Encydosj  compyled 

by  Vyrgylej  ivhiche  liatlie  be  translated  oute  of  latyne  in  to  frenskej  And 
oute  of  frenshe  reduced  in  to  Englysshe  by  me  Wyllrh  Ca.vtonj  the  x.vif. 
daye  of  Juyn.  the  yere  of  our  lorde.  M.  iiij  C.l.vxxx.  The  fythe  [sic] 
yere  of  the  Regne  of  kyttge  Henry  the  seiienth.    Folio.   Black  letter,   o.  M. 

Preface,  2  leaves  ;  table,  3  leaves  ;  B — L  7  in  eights. 

The  first  four  leaves  are  inlaid,  and  the  fifth  is  in  facsimile.  From  the  collec- 
tions of  Mr.  Hanrott  and  Mr.  Lancelot  Holland. 

This  work  is  a  literal  translation  from  the  French  book  described  above,  which 
was  no  doubt  the  "  lytyl  booke  in  frenshe,  named  Eneydos,"  which  Caxton  describes 
in  his  preface  as  the  original  of  his  work.  Mr.  Blades  was  unacquainted  with  the 
original,  and  suggests  that  Caxton  translated  from  a  MS.  no  longer  known,  but 
Brunet  remarks, "  C'est  probablement  d'apr^s  cette  paraphrase  anonyme  que  Caxton 
a  donnd  I'Eneide  en  anglais." 

The  Story  of  ^Enseas  and  Dido  Burlesqued  :  From  the  Fourth 

Book  of  the  /Eneid  of  Virgil.    Vive  la  Bagatelle.    Charlestozvn :  Printed 
and  Sold  by  Robert  Wells.    MDCCLXXIV.    8vo. 
Pp.  96,  the  last  two  blank,  +  xvi. 


The  Bvcoliks  of  Pvblivs  Virgilivs  Maro,  Prince  of  all  the  Latine 

Poets  ;  otherwise  called  his  Pastoralls,  or  shepeherds  meetings.  To- 
gether with  his  Georgiks  or  Ruralls,  otherwise  called  his  husbandrie, 
conteyning  foure  books.  All  newly  translated  into  English  uerse  by 
A.[braham]  F.[Ieming.]  Imprinted  at  London  by  T.  O.  for  Thomas 
Woodcocke,  divelling  in  Panics  Churchyard  at  the  signe  of  the  blacke 
Beare.    1589.    4to.    Black  letter. 


I S  40  VIRGILIUS—VIRG  IN. 

The  Bucolics,  A— E  in  fours.     Tlie  Georgics,  A— K  in  fours,  and  a  leaf  of  L. 

This  tranblation  is  in  blank  verse  and  is  dedicated  to  the  Archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury. The  Georgics  has  a  separate  title.  The  present  copy  has  passed  through 
the  collections  of  Herbert,  Heber,  and  Mr.  Corser. 

In  1575  Fleming  had  already  published  a  version  of  the  Bucolics  in  rhyming 
verse. 

VIRGILIUS  MARO,  Publius.  Virgil's  Georgicks  Englished  by 
Tho  :  May  Esq.  Lo :  printed  for  Tho  :  Walkley  in  Brittains  Burse. 
1628.    Sm.  sqr.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B,  16  leaves  ;  C— K  2  in  eights. 

Dedicated  by  the  translator  to  Christopher  Gardiner  of  Haling,  Esq. 

The  Epigrams  of  P.  Virgilivs  Maro,  and  others.    With  the 

Praises  of  him  and  his  Workes.  Also  His  Epitaphs  composed  by 
diuers  illustrious  persons.  And  lastly,  the  Arguments  of  his  Workes. 
Englished  by  I.[ohn]  P.[enkethman]  louer  of  Learning.  [Quotation 
from  Ovid  2  Trist.  Candidus  a  salibits  &c.]  London,  Printed  by  G\_eorgc\ 
P.[_urslowe.']    1624.    Sm.  Svo.    G.  M. 

A — D  in  eights. 

With  a  woodcut  frontispiece.  Dedicated  to  Nathaniel  Gurlin,  of  Lincoln's  Inn. 
From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

La  vie:    les  ditz,  et  merueilles  de  Vergille.     Ouil   fist    luy 

estant  en  Romme.  Nouvellement  imprimee.  [Colophon.]  Cy  finissent 
les  dictz  et  les  mernilles  de  Vergille.  Lnprinie  a  Lyon  en  la  maison  de 
feu  Barnabe  Chaussard  \s.  (/.]    Sm.  sqr.  Svo.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

M.  Brunet  puts  the  date  of  this  very  rare  edition  as  1520-30.  It  consists  of 
twenty  leaves,  with  twenty-four  lines  to  the  page. 

Les  faictz  Merueilleux  de  Virgille.    [Colophon.]    Cy  finissent 


les  faitz  merneilleiix  de  Virgille  NoHnclleuie?it  Lnprimcz  a  Paris  par 
Guillaume  nyiierd  deniourant  en  la  Rue  de  la  iiiyfrie  a  lyniage  sainct 
pierre  on  a  la  premiere  parte  du  palays.    [j.  d!]    Sm.  4to. 

This  is  one  of  the  eighteen  copies  of  the  re-impression  by  M.  Techener,  which 
were  taken  off  on  vellum,  only  thirty  copies  being  printed  in  all.  It  consists  of 
fifteen  leaves.     There  is  a  second  copy  on  vellum  in  the  library. 

This  boke  treateth  of  the  lyfe  of  Virgilius,  and  of  his  deth, 

Empryntcd  in  the  cytie  of  Amvarpe,  By  me  Johnn  Doesborcke. 


\Abont  \<)Oi)?^    Reprinted  by  J.  M'-Creery,\^\2.    Sqr.  Svo. 

Pp.  24+4. 

Of  this  reprint  fifty  copies  only  were  struck  off  on  paper,  and  one  on  vellum. 
The  copy  of  the  original  from  which  it  was  reprinted  is  in  the  Douce  collection. 

VIRGIN.    The  Virgins  Complaint  for  the  losse  of  their  Sweet- 
Hearts  by  these  present  Wars,  And  their  ownc  long  solitude  and  keep- 


VIRGINIA— VITA.  1541 

ing  their  Virginities  against  their  wills  :  Presented  in  the  names  and 
behalfes  of  all  the  Damsels  both  of  Country  and  City,  January  29.  by 
sundry  Virgins  of  the  City  of  London.  Whcrcunto  is  added  a  mourn- 
full  Dittie  written  by  some  of  the  wittiest  wenches  among  them. 
London,  Printed  for  Henry  Wilson,  Fcbr.  a,.  Anno  Dovt.  1942  [1642]. 

4to. 

Four  leaves. 

VIRGINIA.  A  Trve  Declaration  of  the  estate  of  the  Colonic  in 
Virginia,  With  a  confutation  of  such  scandalous  reports  as  haue 
tended  to  the  disgrace  of  so  worthie  an  enterprise.  Published  by 
aduise  and  direction  of  the  Councell  of  Virginia.  Lo)idon,  Printed  for 
IVi/iiam  Barret,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  tJie  blacke  Bcare  in  Panls  Church- 
yard.   16 10.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — I  in  fours,  A  i  bearing  only  the  signature.    A  tract  of  the  utmost  rarity. 

A  Perfect  Description  of  Virginia :  being,  A  full  and  true 

Relation  of  the  present  State  of  the  Plantation,  their  Health,  Peace, 
and  Plenty  :  the  number  of  people,  with  their  abundance  of  Cattell, 
Fowl,  Fish,  &c.  with  several!  sorts  of  rich  and  good  Commodities, 
which  may  there  be  had,  either  Naturally,  or  by  Art  and  Labour. 

Which  we  are  fain  to  procure  from  Spain,  France,  Denmark 

There  having  been  nothing  related  of  the  true  estate  of  this  Planta- 
tion these  25  years.  Being  sent  from  Virginia,  at  the  request  of  a 
Gentleman  of  worthy  note,  who  desired  to  know  the  true  State  of 
Virginia  as  it  now  stands.  Also,  A  Narration  of  the  Countrey,  within 
a  few  dayes  journey  of  Virginia,  West  and  by  South,  where  people 
come  to  trade :  being  related  to  the  Governour,  Sir  William  Berckley. 
.  .  .  With  the  manner  how  the  Emperor  Nichotawance  came  to  Sir 
William  Berckley.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  for  Riehard  Wodenoth,  at 
the  Star  under  Peters  Chureh  in  Cornhill.   1649.    4to.    R.  M. 

Title,  preceded  by  a  leaf  with  a  woodcut  of  the  royal  arms  ;  B — D  2  in  fours. 

VISDOMINI,  Francesco.  Predica  delle  nvove,  et  grandi  alle- 
grezze  di  Roma;  Per  la  riconciliatione  del  gloriosissimo  Regno  d'  Ing- 
hilterra.  Fatta  a  Venetia  dal  Padre  Franceschino  Visdomini  da  Fer- 
rara,  Nella  Chiesa  de'  Frati  Menori,  il  di  xxiii.  di  Decemb.  che  fu  la 
iiii.  Dominica  del  sacro  Aduento,  I'anno  del  Signore  MDLV.  In 
Venetia.  I $$$.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Sixteen  leaves. 

VITA,  B.  Maris  Virginis  iconibvs  aeneis  et  brevissimis  precati- 
unculis  illustrata.  Colonics  Agrippince  Apud  Gerhardum  Greuenbruch 
Anno.  MDC.XXVIL    Sm.  8vo.    br.  m. 

9A 


1542  VITAS— VITRUVIUS. 

A— K  7  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  bearing  only  the  colophon. 

Illustrated  with  thirty-eight  etchings  on  copper.  Some  of  the  subjects  are 
copied  from  the  Life  of  the  Virgin  and  Little  Passion  of  Albert  Durer,  but  none  of 
the  plates  have  an  engraver's  mark  upon  them. 

VITAS  PATRUM.  Hyr  beghynt  dat  eerwerdich  leuen  der  wter- 
karen  vrunde  gades  der  hilghen  oltuadere.  dar  vine  do  een  yewelik 
beyde  syn  oeren  vp,  die  invvendighe  vii  die  wtwendighe  vn  merkeren 
groten  stryt  vnde  sye.  vnde  die  ewighe  vreude  die  sy  dar  mede 
gewonne  hcbben  vnde  volghet  en  nae.  [Colophon.]  Hyer  heffst  eeii 
ende  dat  bock  der  hilgJien  oltiiaders  mit  synen  exempelen.  Dat  to  latyn 
geheten  is  vitas patruin.    [O.O.n.J.]    Folio.     l$2  7Uoodc-iits. 

Register,  4  leaves  ;  A— C  in  eights  (the  first  leaf  of  sig.  A  being  blank)  ;  d,  6 
leaves  ;  e — k  in  eights  ;  1,  6  leaves  ;  m  and  n  in  eights  ;  o,  6  leaves ;  p — y  in 
eights  ;  no  sig.  z  ;  A — G  in  eights  ;  H,  6  leaves,  the  last  being  blank. 

The  edition  appears  to  be  altogether  undescribed  by  bibhographers. 

Vitas  Patrum.  [This  is  the  whole  of  the  title,  and  is  printed 

in  large  white  letters  on  a  black  ground  in  the  centre  of  the  page, 
the  verso  of  the  leaf  blank.  On  the  top  of  the  first  column  of  the 
second  leaf  recto  occurs  :]  Here  foloweth  the  right  deuoute/  moche 
lowable/  &  recomendable  lyff  of  the  olde  Auncyent  holy  faders  her- 
mytes/  late  translated  out  of  latyn  in  to  frenshe/  and  dylygently 
corrected  in  the  cyte  of  Lyon/  y  yere  of  our  Lord.  M.CCCC.lxxxvi. 
vpon  that  whiche  hath  be  vvryten  and  also  translated  out  of  Greke  into 
Latyn/  by  the  blessyd  &  holy  saynt  Saynt  Jerome  right  deuoute  & 
approued  doctour  of  the  chirche/  &  other  solytarye  relygyouse  per- 
sones  after  hy.  And  after  in  the  yere  of  our  lorde.  M.CCCC.lxxxxi. 
reduced  in  to  Englysshe  folowyng  the  copye/  ahvaye  vnder  correccyon 
of  doctours  of  the  chirche.  [Colophon.]  T/ms  endyth  the  moost  ver- 
tuotise  hystorye  of  the  deuoute  &  rigid  renommed  lyiics  of  holy  faders 
lyiiynge  in  desertej  worthy  of  reineinbrauncc  to  all  zvcll  dysposed persoiiesj 
whiche  Iiath  be  translated  out  of  Frensslie  in  to  Englysshe  by  Wyllyam 
Caxton  of  Westinynstre  late  deed  I  and  fynysshcd  it  at  the  laste  day  of  his 
lyff.  Enprynted  in  the  sayd  towne  of  Westniynstre  by  my  Wynkyn  de 
Worde  t/te  yere  of  our  lorde.  M.CCCC.LXXXXV.  and  the  tenth  yere  of 
our  soucrayne  lorde  kyng  Hcnryc  the  seueuth.  Folio.  Black  letter.  Wood- 
cuts.   R. 

Aa,  8  leaves  ;  a — o  in  eights  ;  p,  6  leaves  ;  q — x,  in  eights  ;  y,  10  leaves  ;  z — tt 
in  eights;  w — xx  in  sixes.  The  last  leaf,  which  has  on  the  recto  the  words  "Vitas 
patrum"  over  a  large  woodcut,  and  on  the  verso  Caxton's  device,  is  here  in  facsimile. 

A  magnificent  specimen  of  old  English  typography,  and  considered  one  of  the 
masterpieces  of  W.  de  Worde's  press. 

VITRUVIUS.  [On  folio  5.]  L.  Victrvvii  Pollionis  ad  Cesarem 
Avgvstvm  de  Architectvra  liber  primvs  [et  sequcntes  IX,  ex  recen- 
sione  Joannis  Sulpitii  Verulani.]    [At  folio  99.]    Sexti  Ivlii  Frontini 


VITRUVIUS—VOCABULARIUM.  1543 

viri   consvlaris  :  de    Aqvis  qve  in  urbcm  inflvvnt :  libcllvs  mirabilis. 
\_Siiie  loco  ant  a /mo.]     Folio. 

One  hundred  and  fourteen  leaves.  Without  folios,  catchwords,  or  signatures. 
Attributed  by  Panzer  to  the  press  of  G.  Herolt,  at  Rome,  about  i486, 

VITRUVIUS.  L.  Vitruvius  Itcrvm  ct  Frontinvs  a  iocundo  revisi 
repvrgatiqve  qvantvm  ex  coUationc  licvit.  [Colophon.]  .  .  .  Florcn- 
tice  siimptibtis  Philippi  de  Giiinta  Florentini  Anno  Domini.  M.D.XIII. 
Mense  Octobri.  8vo.    o.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — Z  in  eights  ;  AA,  4  leaves  ;  a — c  in  eights ; 
A — C  in  eights. 

VIVES,  J.  L.  Joannis  Ludovici  Vivis  De  Europe  dissidijs  & 
Republica.  Ad  Adrianvm  VI.  Pon.  De  tumultibus  Europre.  Ad 
Henricvm.  VIII.  Anglias  Rege  de  Rege  Galli^,  capto.  Ad  evndem  de 
regni  administratione,  bello,  &  pace.     De  Europae  dissidiis  ct  bello 

Tvrcico [Colophon.]    Brvgis.  typis  Huberti  de  Croock.    Anno 

M.D.XXVI.  Mense  Decembri.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — I  in  eights. 

VIVES,  LUDOVICUS.  An  Introdvction  to  wysedome,  made  by 
Ludovicus  Vines,  and  translated  into  Englyshe  by  Rycharde  Mory- 
sine.  [Colophon.]  Londini  in  cedibus  Tliome  Bertheleti  typis  impress. 
Cum  priiiilegio  ad  imprimenditm  solum.  Anno.  M.D.XL.  Sm.  8vo. 
Black  letter. 

A — L  in  eights  ;  A  8  blank,  and  A  7  verso,  with  the  printer's  device. 

Dedicated  by  the  translator,  Sir  Richard  Moresine,  or  Morysine,  "  To  the  ryght 
worshypful  master  Gregory  Crumwell,  sonne  to  the  ryght  honorable  Lord  Crumwell, 
lorde  priuie  scale,"  in  an  epistle  occupying  several  pages.  He  observes  :  "  If  ye 
make  these  preceptes  yours,  by  vse  of  ihcm,  speakynge  as  they  teache  you,  work- 
ynge  as  they  aduise  your,  who  shall  have  more  cause  to  reioise  of  it,  than  you  youre- 
selfe  1  wherin  can  you  more  please  my  lord  your  fathers  mind  ?  what  thinge  can 
more  satisfye  his  desire .''  what  greater  comforte  can  come  to  his  lordeshyppe,  then 
to  se  you  moste  lyke  him  in  condicions .?  what  greater  worshyppe  to  you,  then  to 
treade  in  his  steppes  ?  .  .  ."  As  the  Earl  of  Essex  was  disgraced  and  executed  this 
very  year,  possibly  the  present  volume  was  suppressed,  as  no  record  of  any  other 
copy  of  this  edition  of  1540  appears  to  exist.  Herbert  cites  an  edition  by  the  same 
printer  in  1544,  which  he  had  not  seen  ;  but  a  copy  of  it  is  in  the  British  Museum. 

[VOCABULARIUM  Teutonico-Latinum.]   {Sine  ullA  nota?^   4to. 

A— t  in  eights,  the  first  leaf  blank;  aa— pp  in  eights;  qq,  10  leaves.  Thirty-two 
lines  to  a  full  page. 

This  is  by  Graesse  described  as  "  Imprimd  vers  147 1  chez  J.  Zainer  \  Uhii,"  but 
the  fact  of  the  book  having  signatures  would  indicate  a  year  or  two  later.  It  is 
believed  to  be  the  earliest  printed  German  and  Latin  dictionary. 

[VOCABULARIUM     Latino  -  Teutonicum.]      {^Sine   tdld   notd.] 
Folio.     BR.  MOR. 

This  edition  consists  of  258  leaves,  with  forty  lines  to  a  page.  The  type  is  that 
of  Michael  Reyser  of  Eichstadt.     It  is  without  folios,  catchwords,  or  signatures. 


1544  VOCABULARIUM— VOLTAIRE. 

[VOCABULARIUM  Latino-Teutonicum.]  [On  folio  i.]  Regis- 
tru  vocabularii  sequentis.  [At  the  end.]  Lmis  deo  pax  viuis  requies 
cterna  scpiiltis.    [Si>ie  Jilld  notd?^    Folio. 

One  hundred  and  thirty-eight  leaves  ;  thirty-five  lines  to  the  page. 

The  volume  is  attributed  to  the  press  of  Zainer  of  Ulm. 

[VOCABULARIUM   Latino-Teutonicum.]    {_Sine  loco  aiU  anno 

sed  Colo! lice  per  Ul.  Zcll  circa  1 470.]    4to. 

Six  leaves.     As  a  means  of  identifying  this  edition,  we  give  the  first  lines  of 

page  I. 

hoeff         pallays 

Curia        palatium        ca 

borch        say  II  huyfs 

strum       aula         domus 

hoeffman  saylmanne 

Curialista  aulicus. 

VOCABULARIUS  gemma  gemmaru  nouiter  impressus.  miil- 
tarum  dictionu  additione  exornatus.  15 12.  [Colophon.]  Excussum 
Argentine  In  edibjis  zum  tliier  garten.  Per  Renatum  Beck.  .  .  .  Anno 
Millesinio  quingentcsimo  trcdecimo.    4to. 

a — i  in  fours  and  eights  alternately,  k,  m,  n,  p,  q,  s,  u,  x,  y,  A,  B,  and  D  in 
fours,  1,  o,  r,  t,  z,  C,  and  E  in  eights. 

VOCABULARIUS  Latinis  Gallicis  &  Theutonicis  verbis  scriptii. 
[Colophon.]  Gctrucke  zn  Surasburg  diirck  Martinum  Fsach.  (sic) 
Anno  dni.M.D.xxi.    1521.    4to. 

Thirty-five  leaves. 

VOCABULARY.  Sex  Lingvarvm,  Latinae,  Gallicse,  Hispanicae, 
Italicae,  Anglicoe,  &   Teutonicje,    dilucidissimus   dictionarius,   mirum 

quam  vtilis,  nee  dicam  necessarius,  omnibus  linguarum  studiosis 

A  Vocabulary  in  six  languages,  Latin,  Frenche,  Spanish,  Italy,  English, 

and  Deutsch [Colophon.]    Aiigustcs    Vindclicorum  Philippus 

Vlhardus  excudebat.    [j.  «.]    Sm.  8vo. 

A — M  in  eights,  the  last  two  leaves  blank. 

VOLTAIRE,  Francois  Marie  Arouet  de.  CEuvres  [avec  des 
avertissements  et  des  notes  par  Condorcet ;  Edition  procur^e  par  les 
soins  de  Decroix,  et  sous  la  direction  typographique  de  Lettelier].  De 
rimprimerie  de  la  Socidt^  littcraire  et  typographique  \a  KelW]  1785-9. 
70  vols.    Royal  8vo.    Large  paper.    Plates.    R.  M. 

Uniformly  bound  in  red  morocco  by  Derome. 

La  Henriade.   Paris.   [1767.]    2  vols.  8vo.  Large  paper.   R.M. 

This  copy  has  a  duplicate  set  of  proofs  of  Eisen's  beautiful  vignettes  inserted. 

La  Bible  enfin  expliqu^e  par  plusieurs  aumoniers  de  S.[a] 

M.[ajeste]  L.[e]  R.[oi]  D.[e]  P.[russe].    Londres.    1787.    8vo. 


VON  DER  NOODT—VORAGINE.  1545 

VON  DER  NOODT,  Joiian.  Das  buch  Extasis  bcschribcn  durch 
den  Edlen  und  Ernuesten  J.  Johann  von  der  Noot  Patricium  von 
Antorff.  [At  p.  26.]  Gednickt  zu  Collen  bey  Felix  Rdschlin  in  der 
Schmirstrassen.  [Colophon.]  Gedruckt  zu  Colin  bey  Hcinricli,  von  Ach. 
[O.J.]    Folio.    R.  M. 

Engraved  title  and  preliminaries,  3  leaves  ;  pp.  1-26  ;  then  follow  sigs.  A  and  B, 
4  leaves  each  ;  C,  6  leaves  ;  D — I  in  fours  ;  K,  5  leaves. 

After  p.  26  is  a  fine  portrait  of  the  author,  inscribed,  "  Preclari  &  Vera  Diuini 
Poete  Domini  loannis  Van-der  Noot  Patrity  Antuerpiensis  Effigies.  1573."  There 
are  eighteen  tine  engravings  on  the  text  besides  the  portrait  and  engraved  title. 
Some  of  the  plates  have  the  monogram  D.V.C.  [Dirck  Volkertsz  Coornhaert]. 

A  Theatre  wherein  be  represented  as  wel  the  miseries  & 

calamities  that  follow  the  voluptuous  Worldlings,  As  also  the  greate 
ioyes  and  plesures  which  the  faithfull  do  enioy.  An  Argument  both 
profitable  and  delectable,  to  all  that  sincerely  loue  the  word  of  God. 
Deuised  by  S.  lohn  vander  Noodt.  Scene  and  allowed  according  to 
the  order  appointed.  Imprinted  at  Lo7idon  by  Henry  Bynneman. 
Anno  Doinitti.  i^6g.  Cvm  Privilegio.  Sm.  8vo.  Black  letter.  Wood- 
cuts.   BL.  M. 

A — S  2  in  eights. 

Dedicated  by  Vondemoodt  to  Queen  Elizabeth.  See  Collier's  "  Bibliogr.  Cata- 
logue," ii.,  374-5.  This  volume  is  of  special  interest,  as  containing  the  earliest 
printed  verses  of  Edmund  Spenser.  An  edition  of  the  book  in  French  was  printed 
by  John  Day  in  1 568,  which  is  much  rarer  than  the  English  version,  but  the  Flemish 
was  the  original  of  both. 

VORAGINE,  Jacques  de.  [On  the  fourth  leaf]  Ci  commence 
la  legende  doree  Et  traicte  premierement  de  laduent  nostre  seigneur. 
[Colophon.]  Cy  finist  le  Icgede  doree  dicte  la  vie  des  saincts  en  francois 
veiie  et  diligenient  corrigee  au  pres  dn  latin  et  segond  le  vray  sens  de  la 
lectre  Come  il  poiirra  appareistre  par  cenlx  qui  diligemment  mectront  la 
peine  a  la  lire  &  bien  entendre  Par  notable  &  reuerend  docteiir  maistre 
icJian  batallier  docteur  en  la  saincte  theologie  a  paris  religieulx  de  lordre 
des  pscheurs  de  la  ville  de  lyon  sur  le  rosne  Et  imprimee  en  la  dicte  ville 
de  lyon  p  bartlielemy  buyer  citoyen  du  dit  lyon  le  dix  iSn  huitiesme  iour 
dapuril  mil  quatre  cens  septante  et  six.  Folio.  Black  letter. 
Three  preliminary  leaves  ;  348  leaves  of  text ;  16  leaves  of  table. 
The  first  book  printed  in  France  in  the  French  language.  No  other  perfect 
copy  is  known.  That  in  Lord  Spencer's  hbrary  wants  si.\  leaves  of  text  and  two 
leaves  of  table,  and  Bnmet  appears  to  have  known  of  no  other  than  that. 

The  last  leaf  is  printed  on  the  recto  only,  and  ends  at  the  bottom  of  the  second 
column,  thus  : — 

"  Cy  finist  ceste  presents  table  faicte 
6-=  composee  selon  lordre  de  la  b  c  pour 
irouver  les  maiieres  auctorites  et 
miracles  sur  la  legende  douree  dicte 
vie  des  saints." 
M.  Gustave  Brunet,  in  "  La  France  littdraire  au  XV"^  Si^cle,"  says,  "  Un  ex- 


1546  VORAGINE. 

emplaire,  20ofr.  vente  Filheul,  en  1779.     II  ne  parait  pas  que  depuis  il  s'en  soit,  • 
montrd  aux  enchires.     II  s'en  trouve  un  chez  Lord  Spencer ;   Dibdin  le  ddcrit 
Bibliotheca  Spenceriana,  t.  4,  p.  526. 

"  M.  Pericaud  observe  que  cet  ouvrage,  le  second  avec  date  publid  \  Lyon  (le 
premier  est  le  Lotharii  compendium  de  1473)7  est  peut-etre  le  premier  livre  mis  au 
jour  en  langue  francaise,  Lcs  Chroniqties  de  Saint-Dcnys  dtant  datdes  du  16  Janvier 
(vieux  style)  ne  furent  publiees  qu'en  1477,  tandis  que  la  Ldgende  est  datde  du 
18  avril." 

VORAGINE,  J.  DE.  Here  begynneth  the  legende  named  in 
latyn  legenda  aurea/  that  is  to  say  in  englyshe  the  golden  legende : 
For  lyke  as  passeth  golde  in  valewe  al  other  metallys/  soo  thys 
Legende  excedeth  all  other  bokes :  [The  rest  of  the  title-page  is  occu- 
pied  by  a  large  woodcut  of  Saints.]    [Colophon.]     Thns  cndeth  the 

legcde  named  in  latyn  legenda  aurea Wherin  ben  conteyned 

alle  tlie  hygJic  and  grete  festys  of  our  lordc  The  festys  of  our  blessyd 
ladyj  The  lyues  passios  &  myracles  of  mani  other  saintes  hystoryes  &■ 
actesj  as  all  alonge  here  afore  is  made  mencyonj  zvhiche  zvcj'ke  I  dyde 
accomplisshed  at  the  conimaundeniete  and  requeste  of  the  noble  and piiys- 
saunte  erle.  &  my  specyal  good  lord  Wyllyam  erle  of  A  rondel j  And  nozu 
haiie  renewed  &  fynysshed  it  at  Westnicstre  the  xx  day  of  May  j  The 
y ere  of  our  lord  M  CCCCClxxxxiiij  And  in  the  viii  yere  of  the  reygne 
off  Kynge  Henry  the  viij  By  tne  Wyllyam  Caxtonj  Folio.  Black  letter. 
Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

Title  and  table,  4  leaves ;  a— e  in  eights ;  F,  2  leaves ;  f^z  in  eights  ;  p,  8  leaves ; 
^,  8  leaves ;  t,  4  leaves  ;  A — Y  in  eights  ;  aa— ee  in  eights  ;  ft",  6  leaves  ;  gg,  4 
leaves. 

In  this  copy  the  first  five  leaves,  the  last,  and  portions  of  gg  iii,and  another  leaf, 
are  in  facsimile.  From  Mr.  Utterson's  library,  and  afterwards  in  Mr.  Corser's  col- 
lection. 

See  Blades,  ii.,  249-51.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  present  volume,  of 
which  the  only  perfect  copy  known  is  at  Althorp,  was  finished  by  Wynkyn  de  Worde 
after  Caxton's  death. 

[The  Golden  Legend.]    [Colophon.]    Thus  endcth  the  legende] 

named  in  latyn  Legcda  aurea  that  is  to  saye  in  englysshc  the  golden 
legende.  For  lyke  as  golde  passeth  all  otlier  metallesj  so  this  boke  excedeth 
all  other  bokes  I  Wherin  ben  conteyned  all  thehygh  and  grete  feestes  of  our 
lordc  I  the  feestes  of  our  blyssed  ladyj  the  lyues  j  passyonsf  and  myracles  of 
many  other  sayntes  hystoryes  atid  actesj  as  all  alonge  here  afore  is  made 
vicficyon.     Whiche    Werke  hath  ben  diligetly  amended  in  diucrs  places 

Where  as  grete  nede  was.  Finysshed  the  .xxvii.  daye  of  A  ugiistj  the  yere 
of  our  lord.  M.CCCCCxxvii.  tlie.  xix.yere  of  the  regne  of  our  souerayne 
lordc  kynge  Henry  the  eyght.  Imprynted  at  London  in  Flete  strete  at 
the  sygnc  of  tlie  sonne  by  Wynkyn  de   Worde.     Folio.    Black  letter. 

Woodcuts.    R. 

A— G  6  in  eights  ;  a — z  in  eights ;  f ,  8  leaves ;  ?,  8  leaves ;  ^,  8  leaves  ;  aa — yy 
in  eights,  the  printer's  device  on  the  last  page. 


VOS—VOX.  1547 

The  last  edition  of  the  Golden  Legend.  There  is  no  title,  the  recto  of  the  first 
leaf  being  blank,  and  the  verso  occupied  by  a  large  woodcut  of  an  assembly  of  saints 
and  martyrs. 

From  the  library  of  Mr.  Maskell,  with  his  book-plate. 

VOS,  Martin  de.  A  series  of  17  engravings  representing  the 
Passion  and  sufferings  of  Christ,  engraved  by  Anton  Wierx  and 
Crispin  de  Pas.  Each  plate  is  surrounded  by  an  ornamental  border  of 
fine  design.    [About  1600.]    4to. 

VOSMER,  M.  Principes  Hollandiae  et  Zelandiac,  Domini  Frisiae: 
Cvm  genuinis  ipsorum  iconibus  ....  Antvcrpiae  Exciidebat  Christo- 
phorus  Plantinus  Pliilippo  Gallcco  M.D.LXXVIII.    Folio. 
Thirty-six  portraits.    A — L  in  fours. 

VOX  BOREALIS,  or  the  Northern  Discoverie:  By  way  of 
Dialogue  between  Jamie  and  Willie.  Amidst  the  Babylonians,  Printed 
by  Margery  Mar-Prelat  in  TInvackcoat-lane,  at  the  Signe  of  the  Crab- 
tree  Qidgell ;  zvithoiit  ajiy  priviledge  of  the  Cater-Caps,  the yeare  coming 
on,  1 64 1.     4to. 

A — D  2  in  fours. 

VOX  INFANTIS.  Or,  The  Propheticall  Child.  Being  a  true 
Relation  of  an  Infant  that  was  found  in  a  Field,  neere  Lempster,  in 
Herefordshire,  July  16,  1649.  That  did  Declare  and  Foretell  of  many 
Strange  things  that  shall  ensue  in  England  and  Ireland  within  the 
space  of  three  yeeres.  Concerning  the  Crowning  of  Charles  the 
Second.  ...  His  great  Victories,  and  the  Destruction  of  this  present 
Parliament  and  Army.  .  . .  London,  Printed  in  the ycere  1649.       4to. 

Four  leaves. 

VOX  PISCIS :  or.  The  Book-Fish  Contayning  Three  Treatises 
which  were  found  in  the  belly  of  a  Cod-fish  in  Cambridge  Market,  on 
Midsummer  Eue  last,  Anno  Domini  1626.  London,  Printed  for  lames 
Boler  and  Robert  Milbovrne.  M.DC.XXVIL  Sm.  8vo. 

A— B  in  twelves,  including  a  woodcut  frontispiece,  a  second  title  :  "  The  Pre- 
paration to  the  Crosse  and  to  Death,  and  of  the  comfort  vnder  the  Crosse  and 
Death.  In  two  Bookes.  Being  very  fruitfuU  for  all  devoute  people  to  reade  and 
meditate  on.  London.  .  .  .  1627."  A — L  6  in  twelves,  including  a  woodcut  frontis- 
piece ;  L  6  blank;  a  third  title  "  A  Mirrovr,  Or,  Glasse  to  know  thyselfe.  Being  A 
Treatise  made  by  lohn  Frith  whiles  hee  was  prisoner  in  the  Tower  of  London,  Anno 
Domini  M.D. XXXII.  London.  .  .  .  1626."  A — I  6  in  twelves,  last  leaf  blank  :  a 
fourth  title  "The  Treasvre  of  Knowledge.  Out  of  which  doth  spring  most  sweet 
Consolations.  .  .  .  London.  .  .  .  1626."    A — H  10  in  twelves,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

VOX  VERITATIS.  [No piaee orprinter's name.]  Anno  M.D C.L. 
4to. 


1 548  VO  YA  G E—  VO  YA  GE S. 

A — D  in  fours,  and  a  leaf  of  E.  This  exceedingly  rare  tract  was  evidently 
printed  abroad  ;  it  is  of  considerable  historical  interest  and  curiosity,  as  it  contains 
numerous  allusions  to  celebrated  characters  of  the  time.  The  author  was  clearly  a 
Royalist,  though  he  does  not  disclose  his  identity  ;  but  he  animadverts  in  severe 
terms  on  the  behaviour  of  the  men  of  the  other  party. 

VOYAGE  d'Espagne,  Curieu.x,  Historique  ct  Politique.  Fait  en 
I'Annee  1655.    [A  la  Sp/ihr.]     1666.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

VOYAGES  OF  THE  DUTCH  EAST  INDIA  COMPANY. 
Begin  ende  Voortgangh/  van  de  Vereenighde  Nederlantsche  Geoctroy- 
eerde  Oost-Indische  Compagnie.  Vervatende  De  voornaemste  Rey- 
sen/  by  de  Inwoonderen  der  selver  Provincien  derwaerts  gedaen. 
Alles  Nevens  de  beschrijvinghen  der  Rijcken/  Eylanden/  Havenen/ 
Revieren/  Stroomen/  Rheeden/  Winden/  Diepten  en  Ondiepten; 
Mitsgaders  Religien/  Manieren/  Aerdt/  Politic  ende  Regeeringhe  der 
Volckeren ;  oock  meede  haerder  Speceryen/  Drooghen/  Geldt  ende 
andere  Koopmanschappen/  met  veele  Discoursen  verrijckt :  Nevens 
eenighe  Koopere  Platen  verciert.  Nut  ende  dienstigh  alle  Curieuse, 
ende  andere  Zee-varende  Liefhebbers.  Met  dry  besondere  Tafels  ofte 
Registers/  in  twee  Delen  verdeelt:  Waer  van  't  eerste  begrijpt,  Veer- 
thien  Voyagien/  den  meeren-deelen  voor  desen  noyt  in  'tlicht  geweest. 
Gedruckt  in  den  Jaere  1646.    2  vols.  Oblong  4to.  Large  paper.   Plates. 

A  full  collation  of  this  important  collection  of  Voyages  will  be  found  in  Muller, 
"  M(5m.  sur  les  Voyages  Nderlandais,"  pp.  g-13. 

The  first  edition  was  published  in  1644,  and  this  of  1646  varies  only  in  a  few 
particulars  which  M.  Muller  points  out.  It  is  known  as  the  collection  of  Isaac 
Commelin,  and  was  published  by  Jan  Jansz.,  though  no  name  of  either  editor  or  pub- 
lisher appears  on  it. 

VOYAGES.  Recueil  de  divers  Voyages  faits  en  Afrique  et  en 
I'Amerique,  qui  n'ont  point  est6  encore  publiez.  Contenant  I'origine, 
les  Moeurs,  les  Coutumes  &  le  Commerce  des  habitans  de  ces  deux 

Parties  du  Monde A  Paris,  chez  Loii'is  Billainc,  dans  la  Grand' 

Salle  dn  Palais,  an  second  Pillier,  au  grand  Ci'sar.   M.DC.LXXIV. 
Avec privilege  du  Roy.    4to.    Maps  and  Plates. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  A — Z  in  fours  ;  Aa — li  2  in  fours  ;  Kk — LI  2 
in  fours  ;  a,  2  leaves  ;  b — g  in  fours  ;  *A — *Fiii ;  *G — *Lii  in  fours  ;  **A — **C  in 
fours;  i§ — 5§  2  in  fours.  Folding-maps  at  pp.  i  and  209;  3  plates  at  p.  20,  and 
plates  at  pp.  118,  125,  127,  133,  134,  137,  149  (2  folding-plates),  151.  A  folding-map 
at  p.  I  of  the  Description  of  Jamaica,  and  also  at  p.  i  of  the  Description  of  St. 
Christopher's. 

VOYAGES.  Seer  gedenckwaerdige  Vojagien,  Van  Johan  Sander- 
son, Hendrick  Tiniberly,  en  Capt..  Johan  Smith,  Door  Europa,  Asia 
en  America f  Amsterdam 1678.   4to. 

Engraved  and  printed  titles  and  preliminaries  6  leaves,  pp.  1-157.  Plates  at  pp. 
9-  29.  57-  77- 


VOYE  BE  PARA  DTS—IV.,R.  1549 

VOYE  DE  PARADIS.    I,a  voyc  dc  paradis.    lAt  tlie  aid.]    Cy 
finist  la  voye  dc  paradis.    \_Saiis  liai  ni  date.l    4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 
Six  leaves,  the  last  blank.    The  title  has  a  fine  ornamental  letter  L.    Most 
probably  printed  by  Veiard. 


W. 

W.,  E.  E.  W.  His  Thameseidos.  Deuided  into  three  Bookcs,  or 
Cantos.  Niinqiiam  stigias  ibit  ad  uinhnis  Inclita  virtus.  [L?cncath 
this  motto  is  a  woodcut  of  the  Pelican  and  her  brood.]  At  London, 
Printed  by  W.  W.for  Simon  Water  son.  1600.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours.     In  verse. 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  Bright  and  Mr.  Corser. 

Nothing  can  be  yet  discovered  concerning  the  author  of  this  very  rare  poem. 
On  sig.  B  2  occur  these  lines — 

sillie  I, 
In  th'  Aprill  of  mine  age  left  Gcrmanie ; 
Where  I  mongst  Stadian  bowers  had  nigh  been  slaine, 
Cause  I  my  Princesse  honour  did  maintaine : 

See  "  Censura  Literaria,"  vol.  ii.,  p.  168.     Not  more  than  four  or  five  copies  are 
known. 

W.,  G.    A  Rich  Storehovse  or  Treasvrie  for  the  Diseased.  Wherein 

are  many  approued  Medicines  for  diners  and  sundry  Diseases.  .  .  . 

First  set  forth.  .  .  .  By  G.  W.  And  now  Sixtly  augmented  and  inlarged 

byA.  T.   At  London.   Printed  by  Ralph  Blozucr.  1616.   a^to.  Black  letter. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — Ss  2  in  fours. 

VV.,  J.  The  VaHant  Scot.  By  J.  W.  Gent.  London,  Printed  by 
Tliomas  Harper  for  Lolin  IVaterson,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in 
Pauls  Church-yard,  at  the  signe  of  the  Croivn.   1637.    4to. 

A — K  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  James,  Marquis  of  Hamilton,  by  William  Bowyer,  who  describes 
himself  as  a  soldier,  and  who  appears  to  have  been  the  editor  of  the  play.  In  the 
course  of  the  dedication,  however,  he  does  not  refer  at  all  to  the  writer,  whose 
initials  are  on  the  title-page. 

W.,  R.  Martine  Mar-Sixtvs.  A  second  replie  against  the  defensor/ 
and  Apology  of  Sixtus  the  fift  late  Pope  of  Rome,  defending  the 
execrable  fact  of  the  lacobine  Frier,  vpon  the  person  of  Henry  the 
third,  late  King  of  France,  to  be  both  commendable,  admirable,  and 
meritorious.  Wherein  the  saide  Apology  is  faithfully  translated, 
directly  answered,  and  fully  satisfied.  Let  God  be  Bulge  bctivixt  thee 
and  me.  Genes.  16.  At  London  Printed  for  Thomas  Woodcock,  and 
are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Panics  Church-yard,  at  the  Signe  of  the  black 
Beare.  1591.    4to.    R. 

A — F  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

9B 


IS  so  W.,R.—  IV.,T. 

In  the  dedication  "  To  Master  Edmvnd  Bowyar  Esquire,"  R.  W.  alludes  in  severe 
terms  to  Nash,  Greene,  and  Munday,  without  directly  naming  them. 
There  is  in  the  library  another  copy  with  the  date  1 592. 

W.,  R.  The  Process  and  Pleadings  in  the  Court  of  Spain  upon  the 
Death  of  Anthonie  Ascham,  Resident  for  the  Parliament  of  England, 
and  of  John  Baptista  Riva,  his  Interpreter,  who  were  kill'd  by  John 

Guillim,  William  Spark,  Valentine  Progers Who  are  all  in  close 

prison  in  Madrid  for  the  said  fact,  except  Henry  Progers,  who  fled  to 
the  Venetian  Ambassador's  Hous,  and  so  escaped.  Sent  from  Madrid 
from  a  person  of  qualitie,  and  made  English.  London,  Printed  by  Wil- 
liam Dji-Gard,  Printer  to  the  Council  of  State.  165 1.    4to. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  by  R.  W.  to  Sir  W.  Butler,  Knight.  All  the  persons  concerned  in 
this  crime  were  Englishmen.  This  tract,  as  well  as  Ascham's  Discourse  on  Govern- 
ment, 1648,  is  unnoticed  by  Lowndes. 

W.,  T.  The  Optick  Glasse  of  Hvmors.  Or  The  touchstone  of  a 
golden  temperature,  or  the  Philosophers  stone  to  make  a  golden 
temper.  Wherein  the  foure  complections.  Sanguine,  Cholericke, 
Phlegmaticke,  Melancholicke  are  succinctly  painted  forth,  and  their 
externall  intimates  laide  open  to  the  purblind  eye  of  ignorance  it 
selfe,  by  which  euery  one  may  iudge  of  what  complection  he  is,  and 
considerably  learne  what  is  most  sutable  to  his  nature.  Lately 
pend  by  T.  W.  Master  of  Artes.  .  .  .  London.  Lniprinted  by  lo/nt 
Windet  for  Martin  Gierke,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  without 
Aldcrsgate,  1607.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

U,  8  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B — M  in  eights.  The  last  two  leaves  occupied  by 
the  errata.  Dedicated  "  To  the  right  worshipful  wise  and  learned  Knight,  Sir  Jvs- 
tinian  Lewin,"  by  T.  W.,  who  dates  "  from  my  study  in  St.  John's  x.  Calend.  of 
March." 

Lowndes  quotes  Dr.  Farmer's  "Essay  on  the  Learning  of  Shakespeare"  as 
pointing  to  "The  Optick  Glasse  of  Hvmors"  as  the  source  from  which  Shakespeare 
derived  the  saying  of  Shylock :  "  And  others  when  a  Bagpipe  sings  i'  th'  nose  can- 
not contain  their  urine  for  affection  ;"  whereas  what  Farmer  says  is,  that  the  story  is 
found  in  Scaliger's  "  Exercitations  against  Cardan,"  and  was  afterwards  printed  in 
Le  Loyer's  "  Treatise  of  Spectres,"  whence  Shakespeare  must  have  taken  it.  If  this 
were  so,  it  must  have  been  from  the  original  French,  as  the  English  version  did  not 
appear  till  1605.  All  that  Farmer  says  of  this  book  is :  "  The  passage  from  Scaliger 
is  likewise  to  be  met  with  in  '  The  Optick  Glasse  of  Hvmors,'  written  I  believe  by 
T.  Wombwell."     By  Lowndes  it  is  attributed  to  T.  Walkington. 

W.,  T.  A  Short  Story  Of  the  Rise,  Reign,  and  Ruin  of  the  Anti- 
nomians,  Familists.and  Libertines  That  Infected  the  Churches  Of  New- 
England  :  And  how  they  were  Confuted  by  The  Assembly  of  Ministers 
there  :  y\s  also  of  the  Magistrates  proceedings  in  Court  against  them. 
Together  with  God's  strange  Remarkable  Judgements  from  Heaven 
upon  some  of  the  Chief  Fomenters  of  these  Opinions ;  and  the 
Lamentable  Death  of   Mrs.  Hutchison.     Very  fit  for  these  Times  ; 


WA  CH  TE  R—  WA  D  S  W  ORTH.  1 5  5 1 

lierc  being  the  same  Errors  amongst  us,  and  Acted  by  the  same 
Spirit.  Publislicd  at  the  Instant  Request  of  Sundry,  by  one  that  was 
an  Eye  and  Ear-witness  of  the  carriage  of  Matters  there.  .  .  .  London, 
Printed  for  Tho.  Parkhtirst.  .  .  .  1692.    4to.    Tlie  edges  uncut.    K.  M. 

A — L  2  in  fours. 

It  appears  from  T.  W.'s  notice  to  the  Reader,  that  the  present  tract  was  already 
in  type,  when  he  was  asked  to  peruse  it,  and  make  additions  ;  also  that  he  objected 
because  some  who  had  acted  in  the  troubles  recorded,  had  since  repented,  but 
ultimately  he  consented  to  make  some  additions. 

WACHTER,  J.  G.  Glossarium  Germanicum,  continens  engines 
&  Antiquitates  totius  h'nguae  Germanicce,  et  omnium  pene  vocabu- 
lorum  vigentium  et  desitorum.   Lipsice.  1737.    Folio. 

WADDING,  Luke.  The  History  of  the  Angelicall  Virgin 
gloriovs  S.  Clare,  dedicated  to  the  Ovcens  most  Excellent  Majesty. 
Extracted  ovt  of  the  R.  F.  Lvke  Wadding  his  Annalls  of  the  Freer 
Minors  chiefly  by  Francis  Hendricq  and  now  donne  into  English.  By 
sister  Magdalen  Augustine,  of  the  holy  Order  of  the  Poore  Clares  in 
Aire.  Imprinted  at  Dovay  by  Martin  Bocart  vndcr  the  signe  of  Paris. 
M.  DC.  XXX  V.    Sm.  8vo. 

a  and  e,  4  leaves  each  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B,  2  leaves  ;  C — Kk  in  fours,  and  a  leaf 
with  the  "Approbatio." 

Vita  R.  P.  F.  loannis  Dvns  Scoti  Ordinis  Minorvm  Doctoris 

svbtilis.    Authore  R.  P.  F.  Luca  Wadingo  Hiberno Montibits, 

Typis,  F.  Wardrceifilii.  1644.  Sm.  8vo.    O.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  7  leaves,  and  A — M  in  eights. 

Immaculatae  Conceptioni  B.  Mariae  Virginis,  Non  aduersari 

eius  mortem  corporalem  opvscvlvm.  RomcB,  Apud  Nicolaumangelum 
Tinassiuni  MDCL  V.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  pp.  1-147. 

WADSWORTH,  James.  The  English  Spanish  Pilgrime.  Or,  a 
New  Discoverie  of  Spanish  Popery,  and  lesviticall  Stratagems.  With 
the  Estate  of  the  English  Pentioners  and  Fugitiues  vnder  the  King  of 
Spaines  Dominions,  and  else  where  at  this  present.  .  .  .  Composed  by 
James  Wadsworth  Gentleman,  newly  conuerted  into  his  true  mothers 
bosome,  the  Church  of  England.  .  .  .  Published  by  speciall  License. 
Printed  at  London  by  T.  C.  for  Micluicl  Sparke,  dwelling  at  the  blue 
Bible  in  Greene- Arbor,  1629.    4to. 

A — N  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  by  the  author  to  the  Earl  of  Pembroke,  by  whose  influence  it  appears 
that  the  publication  of  the  book  was  promoted. 

From  the  library  of  Richard  Ford. 

Fvrther  Observations  of  the  English  Spanish  Pilgrime  con- 
cerning Spaine,  Being  a  second  part  of  his  former  Booke,  and  con- 


1SS2  WAGENSEILIUS—WALDEN. 

taining  these  particulars  :  The  description  of  a  famous  Monastery  or 
House  of  the  King  of  Spaines,  called  the  Escuriall,  not  the  like  in  the 
Christian  World  :  A  briefe  relation  of  certaine  Da;monicall  stratagems 
of  the  Spanish  Inquisition  exercised  on  divers  Englishmen  of  note  of 
late  times,  and  now  liuing  in  England.  A  relation  of  the  founding  of 
a  Military  Order  in  Rome,  to  wit,  of  the  immaculate  Conception  of 
our  Lady,  the  blessed  Virgin.  Composed  by  lames  Wadsworth.  .  .  . 
London  Imprinted  by  Felix  Kyngston  for  Robert  Allot.  .  .  .   1630.   4to. 

A — G  2  in  fours,  and  the  title. 

Dedicated  to  the  Earl  of  Holland  and  others. 

WAGENSEILIUS,  J.  C.  Tela  Ignea  Satana;,  Hoc  est  Arcani  et 
horribiles  Judaeorum  adversus  Christum,  Deum,  et  Christianum  re- 
ligionem  libri  anekdotoi.  Altdorfi  Noricortim.  168 1.  2  vols.  4to. 
R.  M. 

WAHLSTEDT,    J.  J.    Iter  in   American!.    [Cap.  i.    Itineri   in 
Americam  felicius  suscipiendo  viam  aperit.]     UpsalicB.  1725.  Sm.  8vo. 
Title,  I  leaf ;  A — C  in  eights. 

WALDEN,  Richard.  Io  Rvminans  :  Or  The  Repercussion  of  a 
Triumph  Celebrated  in  the  Palace  of  Diana  Ardenna.  By  the  Rustick 
Muse  of  R.  W.  n/Joixo-?">^o-/^ari|.  [Quotation  from  Owen's  Epigr.] 
Printed  Anno  Virginis  partiirientis.  1662.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — B  4  in  eights,  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  Transcendently  Formose  and  (As  far  as  can  be  concluded 
from  the  Topicks  of  Ommatolog)')  most  Heroically  virtuous,  Mrs.  Anne  Gibbs." 
Who  personated  Gartrude  Harebr.  wife  Rosinda  Dionysia  A  Lady  Lucretia  in 
Tu  Ouoque  Madworld  my  M.  Young  Admirall  All's  lost  by  lust  Merry  Milkm. 
Rape  of  Liicrece  July  3.  6.  4.  4.  8.  5.  5.  8.  1661.  At  the  ((Quondam  Antelope,  now) 
King's  Arms  in  Holywell  Oxon. 

IIANAAEQA  7r>.u^oMya,   Or  the  Deplumation  of  Mrs.  Anne 

Gibbs,  Of  those  furtivous  perfections  whereof  She  was  supposed  a 
Proprietary,  By  Envious  Fame.  Deplored  by  her  (once)  Admirer,  R.  W. 
[Quotation  from  Owen's  Epigr.]  Printed  Anno  Virginis  partiirientis. 
1662.    Sm.  Svo. 

Eight  leaves. 

On  the  back  of  the  title  is  :  "  From  his  Umbrello,  As  he  sat  Fishing,  &'"''  9, 
1662."  On  the  4th  leaf  is  a  second  title  :  ITAAINOAIA.  Sivc  Fama  Vapulans  : 
Occasioned  by  her  Retractation  of  her  precipitate  censure  of  Mrs.  Anne  Gibbs,  By 
her  real  Convert  and  Re-admirer,  R.  W.    Printed.  .  .  .  1662." 

Parnassus   Aboriens :    or,    Some   Sparkcs    of    Poesie.      By 

R.  W.  Philomus.  [Quotation  from  Ovid's  Tristia.]  London,  Printed 
in  the  Yenre;  1664.    Sm.  Svo. 

A— B  in  eights. 

This  and  the  two  preceding  tracts  are  bound  up  together  in  a  volume.  No  other 
copies  seem  to  be  known  of  any  of  them. 


WALDENSES— WALKER.  1553 

WALDENSES.  Matchlesse  Ciueltie,  declared  At  large  in  the 
ensuing  History  of  the  Waldcnses  :  Apparently  manifesting  unto 
the  World  the  horrible  Persecutions  which  they  have  suffered  by  the 
Papists,  for  the  space  of  four  hundred  and  fifty  years.  .  .  .  Likewise, 
Hereunto  is  added  an  exact  Narrative  of  the  late  Bloody  and  Barba- 
rous Massacres.  .  .  .  committed  on  many  thousands  of  the  Protestants, 
dwelling  in  the  Valleys  of  Piedmont.  .  .  .  Published  by  command  of 
his  Highness,  the  Lord  Protector.  London,  Printed  for  Ediuard 
Brezvster.  .  .  .  1655.    4to. 

A— K  2  in  fours  ;  Aa — Ss  in  fours  ;  Aaa — Sss  in  fours  ;  Aaaa — Nnnn  in  fours  ; 
the  Narrative,  *,  4  leaves  ;  A — G  2  in  fours. 

The  first  portion  bears  no  name  of  author  or  translator  ;  the  Narrative  at  the 
end  purports  to  have  been  collected  by  desire  of  the  Protector  by  J.  B.  Stouppe. 

WALKER,  Clement.  Relations  and  Observations,  Historical 
and  Politick,  upon  the  Parliament  begun  Anno  Dom.  1640.  Divided 
into  II.  Books:  i.  The  Mystery  of  the  two  Junto's,  Presbyterian  and 
Independent.  2.  The  History  of  Independency,  &c.  Together  with 
An  Appendix,  touching  the  Proceedings  of  the  Independent  Faction 
in  Scotland.  [Quotations.]  Printed  in  t/ie  Year  164&.  4to.  Frontis- 
piece.   R. 

Although  only  two  parts  are  mentioned  in  the  first  title,  there  were  four  parts  to 
the  work,  the  third  printed  in  1651,  and  the  fourth  in  1660:  they  are  all  bound  up 
together  here.  Part  i,  A — Bb  in  fours,  besides  the  frontispiece.  Part  2,  with  a 
new  title,  "  Anarchia  Anglicana,"  1649  ;  preliminaries,  6  leaves,  and  B — LI  in  fours, 
last  leaf  blank.  Part  3,  with  a  new  title,  "  The  High  Court  of  Justice,"  &c.,  1651  ; 
A — I  in  fours.  Part  4,  "  The  History  of  Independency,  The  Fourth  and  Last 
Part,"  with  a  new  title,  dated  1660  ;  A — R  2  in  fours.  Lowndes's  collation  varies 
from  that  of  the  present  copy  (see  p.  2810.) 

Walker  published  parts  1-3  under  the  name  of  Theodorus  Verax,  and  part  4 
under  the  fictitious  initials  T.  M. 

WALKER,  Sir  Edward.  Historical  Discourses  upon  Several 
Occasions  :  viz.  i.  The  happy  Progress  and  Success  of  the  Arms  of 
K.  Charles  I.  .  .  .  from  the  30th  of  March  to  the  23rd  of  November, 
1644.    Written  by  his   Majesty's  especial  Command,  and   corrected, 

almost  every  page,  with  his  own  Hand Together  with  perfect 

copies  of  all  the  Votes,  Letters,  .  .  .  London.  .  .  .  1705.  Folio. 
Large  paper. 

With  an  equestrian  portrait  after  Hollar  on  page  2  verso,  and  a  large  print  of 
Charles  I.,  and  his  Secretary  of  State,  Sir  Edward  Walker. 

WALKER,  Henry.  An  Answer  to  a  foolish  Pamphlet  entitvled 
A  Swarme  of  Sectaries  &  Schismaticks.  Put  forth  by  John  Taylor 
the  Water-Poet.  Wherein  is  set  down  :  i.  An  Epistle  to  John  Taylor. 
2.  lohn  Taylor's  Armes,  blazed  by  Fennor.    3.  George  Haltons  lines 


1554  WALKER— WALKLEY. 

sent  to  lohn  Taylor.  4.  The  view  of  his  long  silence.  5.  The  view 
of  his  writing  this  Booke.  6.  A  view  of  the  title.  7.  A  view  of  lohn 
Taylor  in  the  Tub.  8.  A  view  of  his  Puritans.  9.  A  view  of  his 
Hypocrisie.  10.  An  Exhortation  to  lohn  Taylor  to  repent.  Printed 
in  the  Yearc,  1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  prose  and  verse. 

WALKER,  Henry.  An  Elogic  or  Eulogie  on  the  Obits  of  the 
Right  Honourable  Ferdinando  Lord  Fairfax  :  Who  dyed  upon  Munday 
the  13th  of  March,  Anno  Dom.  1647.  Printed  at  London  by  Robert 
Jbbitson,  divclling  in  Smitlifield  mere  the  Queens  head  Tavern,  1648. 
A  Broadside. 

In  verse,  with  a  series  of  woodcuts  at  top,  vizt.,  two  heralds  with  banners,  a 
head  of  Fairfax,  his  arms,  and  coffin. 

At  the  end  occurs  the  author's  name  :  lly  H.  Walker,  3S.  Thiol. 

WALKER,  William.  Phraseologia  Anglo-Latina.  Or,  Phrases 
of  the  English  and  Latin  Tongue  ;  Whereby  is  shewed  how  to  Render 
English  Proprieties  into  proper  latin.  To  which  h  Added  Parsemio- 
logia  Anglo-Latina  or,  A  Collection  of  English  and  Latin  Proverbs, 
and  Proverbial  Sayings  Match'd  together.  By  William  Walker,  B.D. 
Now  Master  of  the  Publick  School  Of  Grantham.  [London,  1672.] 
Bound  in  2  vols.    8vo. 

A,  7  leaves,  title  on  A  2  ;  a,  4  leaves  ;  B — Z  in  eights  ;  the  Paraimiologia,  with 
a  separate  title  and  "signatures  ;  A — D  7  in  eights. 

With  commendatory  verses  by  Adam  Littleton,  &c.  The  Paraimiologia  has  the 
imprint  :  "  Loudon,  Printed  for  R.  Royston  Bookseller  to  the  Kings  Most  Excellent 
Majesty,  1672." 

WALKLEY,  Thomas.  A  Catalogve  of  the  Dukes,  Marquesses, 
Earles,  Viscounts,  Bishops,  Barons  of  the  Kingdomes  of  England, 
Scotland,  and  Ireland,  with  their  names,  Sirnames,  and  Titles  of 
Honour.  Whcreunto  is  added  a  perfect  List  of  the  Lords  and  others 
of  his  Majesties  most  Honourable  Privy  Counsell ;  Knights  of  the 
Garter,  the  names  of  the  Judges,  the  Baronets  of  England  and  Scot- 
land, with  the  dates  of  their  Patents  ;  the  Knights  of  the  Bath,  from 
the  first  of  King  lames.  With  an  Addition  of  the  Knights  from  the 
first  of  King  Charles  to  this  present.  Collected  by  T.  W.  London  : 
Printed  for  Thomas  Walkley.  ...  1635.  Sm.  8vo. 
A — F  in  eights,  first  leaf  blank. 

A  Catalogve  of  the  Dvkes,  Marquesses,  Earles,  Viscounts, 

Bishops,  Barons,  that  sit  in  this  Parliament.  Begvn  at  Westminster 
the  3.  of  November,  1640.  London,  Printed  for  Tho.  Walkley.  .  .  .  1640. 
A  Catalogve  of  the  Names  of  the  Knights  of  the  Counties,  Citizens, 
Burgesses  for  the  Boroughes,  and  Barons  for  the  Ports  for  the  House 


WALLACE— WALLER.  1555 

of  Commons  for  this  Parliament.    Bcgvn  at  Westminster  the  3.  of 

November,  1640.    London,  Printed  for  Tho.   Walkley. .  .  .  1640.    Sm. 

8vo. 

Sixteen  leaves. 

WALLACE,  James.  A  Description  of  the  Lslcs  of  Orkney ;  By 
Master  James  Wallace,  late  Minister  of  Kirkwall,  Published  after  his 
Death  by  his  Son.  To  which  is  added,  An  Essay  concerning  the 
Thulc  of  the  Ancients.  Edinburgh,  Printed  by  Jo/in  Reid,  In  the 
Year  M.  DC.  XCIII.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title-page  and  map,  2  leaves  ;  A — E  in  eights  ;  F,  4  leaves  ;  G,  3  leaves  ;  [a 
new  title]  An  Essay  Concerning  the  Thule  of  the  Ancients  Where  it  is  shewen 
that  the  Thule  mentioned  by  the  Roman  Writers,  was  the  North  East  Part  of 
Britain,  lying  over  against  the  Isles  of  Orkney.  .  .  .  Edinburi^li,  .  .  .  1693  ;  title 
and  preliminaries,  4  leaves ;  A — C  2  in  eights  ;  two  folding  plates.  Contents, 
I  leaf. 

WALLACE,  Sir  William.  The  Life  and  Acts  Of  the  most 
Famous  &  valiant  Champion  Syr  William  Wallace,  Knight  of  Ellerslie : 
Maintainer  of  the  Libertie  of  Scotland.  [Quotation  from  Cicero  2. 
dejinibns.]  Printed  at  Edinbvrgh,  by  Andro  Hart,  1618.  Sm.  8vo. 
Black  letter.     R.  M. 

The  title  within  an  engraved  border,  f,  9  leaves,  including  the  title  ;  A — Z  in 
eights,  the  last  leaf  is  wanting,  and  the  last  but  one  is  defective. 

The  only  copy  known. 

WALLER,  Edmund.  The  Workes  of  Edmond  Waller  Esquire, 
Lately  a  Member  of  the  Honourable  House  of  Commons,  in  this 
present  Parliament.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  for  Thomas  Walkley.  1645. 
Sm.  8vo. 

B — H  in  eights,  and  the  title-page. 

First  edition.     Printed  without  the  author's  permission.  It  includes  the  Speeches. 

Poems,   &c.   Written   by   Mr.   Ed.  Waller  of  Beckonsficld, 

Esquire  ;  lately  a  Member  of  the  Honourable  House  of  Commons. 
All  the  Lyrick  Poems  in  this  Booke  were  set  by  Mr.  Henry  Lawes 
Gent,  of  the  Kings  Chappell,  and  are  of  his  Majesties  Private  Musick. 
Printed  and  Published  according  to  Order.  London,  Printed  by  T.  W. 
for  Humphrey  Mosley,  at  the  Princes  Arms  in  Pauls  Church-yard. 
1645.    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — G  in  eights  ;  I,  4  leaves. 

In  the  " Advertisement  to  the  Reader"  it  is  said:  "This  parcell  of  exquisit 
Poems,  have  pass'd  up  and  downe  through  many  hands  amongst  persons  of  the 
best  quality,  in  loose  imperfect  Manuscripts,  and  there  is  lately  obtruded  to  the 
world  an  adulterate  Copy,  surniptitiously  and  illegally  imprinted,  to  the  derogation 
of  the  Author  and  the  abuse  of  the  Buyer.  But  in  this  Booke  they  appcare  in 
their  pure  originals  and  true  genuine  colours."  An  examination  of  the  two  editions, 
however,  shows  that  this  edition  is  a  literal  reprint  of  that  which  is  spoken  of  in  such 


1556  WALLER. 

strong  terms  of  disapprobation.  The  misprints  and  corruptions  of  the  text  are 
exactly  the  same  in  both.  It  will  be  observed  that  the  first  is  "  Printed  for  Thomas 
Walkley,"  and  the  second  ''by  T.  W."  The  only  real  difference  between  the  two 
books  is  that  the  Epistle  "To  my  Lady,"  and  the  mendacious  advertisement  to  the 
reader  occupy  three  leaves,  which  are  inserted  after  the  title,  and  the  speeches  con- 
tained in  the  first  issue  are  here  omitted,  while  two  leaves  of  poems  and  two  leaves  of 
Table  are  added  at  the  end.  It  appears  from  a  contemporary  folio  MS.  of  Waller's 
Poems  with  corrections  in  his  autograph,  now  in  the  possession  of  Mr.  Waller,  of 
Beaconsfield,  that  the  Epistle  addressed  here  and  in  the  other  printed  editions 
simply  "To  my  Lady,"  and  applying  not  to  the  volume,  in  which  it  is  inserted, but  to 
a  MS.  copy  sent  to  the  patroness,  was  designed  for  Lady  Sophia  Bertie,  for  in  the 
MS.  the  superscription  is:  "To  my  Lady  Sophia  Bartee,"  to  which  is  added  in  a 
contemporary  hand,  "  the  Earl  of  Linsey's  daughter."  The  Lady  Isabella  mentioned 
by  Waller  was  Lady  Isabella  Thynne.  But  the  MS.  described  has  a  still  higher 
interest  as  possessing  an  inedited  dedication,  which  the  poet  intended  to  have 
addressed  to  Queen  Henrietta  Maria,  but  which  was  suppressed  in  consequence 
of  the  Civil  War.     See  "  Notes  and  Queries,"  3rd  .S.  vii.,  435,  and  ix.,  193. 

WALLER,  Edmund.    Poems,   &c.    Written  by  Mr.  Ed.  Waller 

....  And  Printed  by  a  Copy  of  liis  own  hand-writing London, 

Printed  by  L  N.  for  Hu.  Mosley.  .  .  .   1645.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — N  4  in  eights  ;  O — P  2  in  eights. 

This  is  the  first  genuine  edition  with  much  more  correct  text.  The  speeches 
now  appear  again.     The  advertisement  regarding  the  spurious  copy  is  repeated. 

The  present  copy,  from  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Jolley  and  Mr.  J.  Delaware  Lewis,  has 
been  called  "  large  paper,"  but  this  seems  to  be  doubtful.  The  volume  is  printed 
in  a  larger  and  handsomer  type  than  the  earlier  issue,  and  instead  of  fifty-four 
occupies  ninety-six  leaves,  exclusively  of  the  Speeches. 

Poems The  Eighth  Edition,  with  Additions.    To 


which  is  prefix'd  the  Author's  Life London.  .  .  .  171 1.    8vo. 

Large  paper.    R.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  a — f  4  in  eights  ;  B — Ee  4  in  eights.    With  portraits  and  plates. 
From  Mr.  J.  Delaware  Lewis's  collection. 

Poems The   Ninth    Edition,    with  Additions.     To 


which  is    Prefix'd   the   Author's    Life.    London :  Printed  for   Jacob 
Tonson.  .  .  .  MDCCXIL    Sm.  8vo.    Portrait.    Y.  M. 

A,  12  leaves  ;  a — b,  12  leaves  each;  B — N  in  twelves. 

To  the  King,  Upon  Plis  Majesties  Happy  Return.    [Colo- 


phon.]   By  Ed  :  Waller   Esq.    Printed  for  Richard  Harriot,  in  St. 
Duns  tans  Church-yard,  Fleet  street.  [1660.]    Folio.  , 

Four  leaves.     First  edition. 

A  Poem  on    St.  James's  Park  As  lately  improved  by  his 


Maiesty.  Written  by  Edmund  Waller,  Esq. ;  London,  Printed  for 
Gabriel  Bedel  and  Thomas  Collins  at  the  Middle-Tenipk-Gate.  166 1. 
Folio. 


WALLER—  IV  A  LLTS.  1557 

A — D,  2  leaves  each.  First  edition.  The  poem  on  St.  James's  Park  ends  on 
C  I,  and  the  rest  of  the  volume  is  occupied  by  some  verses,  "  Of  our  late  War  with 
Spaine,  and  first  Victory  at  Sea  near  St.  Lugar." 

WALLER,  Edmund.  Instructions  to  a  Painter,  For  the  Drawing 
of  the  Posture  &  Progress  of  His  Ma'"'  Forces  at  Sea,  Under  the 
Cominand  of  His  Highness  Royal.  Together  with  the  Battel  &  Vic- 
tory Obtained  over  the  Dutch,  June  3.  1665.  By  Edm.  Waller,  Esq. ; 
London,  Printed  for  Henry  Herriiigman,  .  .  .  1666.  Folio. 
A — Ei,  in  twos.     First  edition. 

The  Maid's  Tragedy  Altered.    With  some  other  Pieces.    By 

Edmund  Waller,  Esq.  ;  Not  before  Printed  in  the  several  Editions  of 
his  Poems.  London,  Printed  for  Jacob  Tonson,  at  the  Judges  Head  in 
Chancery  Lane,  near  Fleet-Street.  1690.    8vo. 

Title  and  half  title,  2  leaves  ;  B — H  2  in  eights. 

WALLHAUSEN,  Jean  Jacques  de.  Art  de  Cheualerie.  Com- 
prenant,  apres  un  advertissement  necessaire,  touchant  I'estat  doulereux 
de  la  Chrestiente,  I'instruction  de  touts  auantages  &  dexteritez,  neces- 
saires  a  chascun  Cheualier.  Iniprime  a  Francfort.  1616.  4to.  13 
folding  plates.    Y.  M. 

WALLIN,  Benjamin.  Evangelical  Hymns  and  Songs,  in  Two 
Parts  :  The  First,  composed  on  various  Views  of  the  Christian  Life 
and  Warfare  ;  The  Second,  in  praise  of  the  Redeemer  :  Published  for 
the  Comfort  &  Entertainment  of  True  Christians.  By  Benjamin 
Wallin.  To  which  is  added,  A  Collection  of  Hymns  from  D'.  Watts's 
forty-four  Sermons  :  And  M''.  Stennet's  Sacramental  Hymns.  Boston : 
Re-Printed  and  Sold  by  Edes  &  Gill,  1762.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — N  in  sixes. 

WALLIS,  David.  The  Sad  Effects  of  Sin.  A  True  Relation  of 
the  Murder  committed  by  David  Wallis  on  his  Companion  Benjamin 
Stolwood  :  On  Saturday  Night,  the  first  of  August,  17 13.  With  his 
Carriage  after  Condemnation  ;  His  Confession  and  Dying  Speech  at 
the  Place  of  Execution,  &c.  To  which  are  added  the  Sermons  preached 
at  the  Lecture  in  Boston  in  his  Hearing,  after  his  Condemnation  ; 
And  on  the  Day  of  his  Execution,  being  Sept.  24,  17 13.  Boston, 
N.E.  Printed  by  John  Allen  for  Nicholas  Boone,  at  the  sign  of  the 
Bible  in  Cornhil.    17 13.     Sm.  8vo. 

A,  6  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves  ;  B  3  blank,  and  B  4  occupied  by  the  separate  title  to 
the  first  Sermon,  preached  by  Cotton  Mather  ;  the  Sermon,  A — F  2  in  sixes  ;  the 
second  Sermon,  by  Benjamin  Colman,  with  a  separate  title,  a — c  in  sixes,  last 
leaf  blank. 

9c 


1558  WALLIS— WALSH. 

WALLIS,  Ralph.  Room  for  the  Cobler  of  Gloucester  and  his 
Wife :  With  several  Cartloads  of  Abominable  Irregular,  pitiful  stink- 
ing Priests  :  as  also  A  Demonstration  of  their  Calling  after  the  manner 
of  the  Church  of  Rome  ;  but  not  according  to  Magna  Charta,  the 
Rule  of  the  Gospel.  Whereunto  is  Added,  a  Parallel  Between  the 
Honour  of  a  Lord  Bishop,  and  the  Honour  of  a  Cobler  ;  the  Cobler 
being  proved  the  more  Honourable  Person.    Printed  for  the  Author, 

1668.    4to. 

A — E  in  fours. 

The  Life  and  Death  of  Ralph  Wallis,  the  Cobler  of  Gloces- 


ter  :  Together  with  some  inquiring  into  the  Mystery  of  Conventicleism. 
Miscemns  miiltis  seria  multa  jocis.  London,  Printed  by  E.  Okes,  for 
William  Whitwood.    1 670.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — G  2  in  fours. 

WALPOLE,  Horace.    Anecdotes  of  Painting  in  England  .... 
Collected  by  the  late  Mr.  George  Vertue  ;  and  now  digested  and  pub- 
lished from  his  original  MSS.  .  .  .  The  Second  Edition.    Straivberry- 
Hill,  MDCCLXV.    5  vols.    4to.    With  portraits  and  plates.    R.  M. 
From  the  collection  of  Mr.  Lancelot  Holland. 

Anecdotes  of  Painting  in  England,  and  Catalogue  of  En- 


gravers. .  .  .  With  considerable  Additions  by  the  Rev.  James  Dalla- 
way.    London  .  .  .  1826-8.    5  vols.    Roy.  8vo.    Portraits. 
From  Mr.  Utterson's  library. 

A  Catalogue  of  Royal  and  Noble  Authors  of  England,  Scot- 


land, and  Ireland  .  .  .  Enlarged  and  Continued  to  the  present  time 
by  Thomas  Park.    London  .  .  .  1806.    5  vols.    8vo.   Portraits.    R.  M. 
From  Mr.  Utterson's  library. 

WALSH,  Peter.  The  History  &  Vindication  of  The  Loyal 
Formulary,  or  Irish  Remonstrance,  So  Graciously  Received  by  His 
Majesty  Anno  1661.  Against  All  Calumnies  and  Censures.  In  several 
Treatises.  With  A  True  Account  and  Full  Discussion  of  the  Delusory 
Irish  Remonstrance,  and  other  Papers,  Framed  and  Insisted  on  By  the 
National  Congregation  at  Dublin,  Anno  1666,  And  Presented  to  His 
Majesties  (then)  Lord  Lieutenant  of  that  Kingdom,  the  Duke  of  Or- 
mond  ;  But  Rejected  by  His  Grace.  To  which  are  added  Three  Ap- 
pendixes :  Whereof  the  Last  contains  The  Marquess  of  Ormond  Lord 
Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  His  Long  and  Excellent  Letter  Of  the  Second 
of  December  1650.  In  Answer  to  both  the  Declaration  and  Excom- 
munication of  the  Bishops,  &c.  at  Jamestown.  The  Author  Father 
Peter  Walsh,  of  the  Order  of  St.  Francis,  Professor  of  Divinity.  [Quo- 


WA L  SH-  WA L  TON.  1 559 

tation  from  Gregory  Nazianz.]  Printed  Anno  M.DC.LX XIV.  Folio. 
BL.  M. 

Title,  I  leaf;  a — si  in  twos  ;  A* — Ooooo*,  2  leaves  each;  Ppppp — Ccccccccc, 
2  leaves  each  ;  A — X,  2  leaves  each  ;  [a  new  title]  "  Queries  concerning  The  Law- 
fulnesse  of  the  Present  Cessation,  &c.  Printed  at  Kit/ccuny,  Anno  1648.  And 
Re-printed,  Anno  1673 ;  "  A — Nn,  2  leaves  each,  and  an  extra  leaf  containing  "  The 
General  Assemblies  Publick  Act  and  Declaration." 

WALSH,  Peter.  A  Letter  to  the  Catholicks  of  England,  Ireland, 
Scotland,  And  all  other  Dominions  under  His  Gracious  Majesty  Charles 
n.  Written  by  Father  Peter  Walsh,  of  the  Order  of  St.  Francis,  Pro- 
fessor of  Divinity.  Mclior  est  vianifesta  corrcptio,  quam  amor  absconditus. 
Prov.  xxvii.  5.    Printed  Anno  M.DC.LXXIV.    8vo. 

A — G  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  Stationer,  in  his  Address  to  the  Reader,  says  that  this  letter  was  intended 
as  a  Preface  to  a  larger  work,  the  "  History  and  Vindication  of  the  Loyal  Formu- 
lary," folio,  1674 — but  that  some  few  copies  had  crept  abroad,  he  knew  not  how, 
by  themselves.  He  therefore  reprinted  the  Prefatory  Letter  separately  in  8vo.  to 
supply  the  demand  for  it,  requiring  all  the  folio  stock  to  bind  up  with  the  History. 

Valesius  ad    Haroldum.     Anno  M.DC.LXXH.     [Epistola 

prima  Fratris  Petri  Valesii,  Ordinis  Minorum,  Provincise  Hibcrniae, 
Sacrze  Theologiae  Professoris,  ad  Reverendum  Patrem  Thomam 
Haroldum,  ejusdem  Instituti,  Provincise,  ac  Sacras  pariter  Theologiae 
Lectorem  Jubilatum,  Londino  Bruxellas  missa.]    [1672.]    Folio. 

Title,  I  leaf;  A — G,  2  leaves  each  ;  H,  i  leaf. 

WALTHER,  J.  L.  Lexicon  Diplomaticvm,  abbreviationes  sylla- 
barvm  et  vocvm  in  Diplomatibvs  et  Codicibvs  a  secvlo  VHL  ad  XVL 
vsque  occvrrentes  exponens,  iunctis  Alphabetis  et  Scripturae  speci- 
minibvs  integris  .  .  .  Suinptibus  Gauuiianis  Ulina:.    1756.    Folio. 

WALTON,  IZAAK.  The  Compleat  Angler  or  the  Contemplative 
Man's  Recreation.  Being  a  Discourse  of  Fish  and  Fishing,  Not  un- 
worthy the  perusal  of  most  Anglers.  Simon  Peter  said,  I  go  a  fishing  : 
and  t/uy  said,  We  also  wil  go  with  thee.  John  21.  3.  London, 
Printed  by  T.  Maxey  for  Rich.  Harriot,  in  S.  Duns  tans  Church-yard 
Fleetstreet,  1653.    Sm.  8vo.    o.  M. 

A— R  4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank.  With  copperplate  engravings  of  fish 
printed  on  the  letterpress. 

First  edition,  dedicated  "To  the  Right  Worshipful  John  Offley,  of  Madely 
Manor  in  the  County  of  Stafford,  Esq  ;  My  most  honoured  Friend." 

There  is  in  the  library  a  duplicate  of  this  edition,  in  the  original  sheep 
binding. 

The  Compleat  Angler  .  .  .  Being  a  Discourse  of  Rivers,  and 

Fish-Ponds,  and  Fish,  and  Fishing  ....  The  Second  Edition  much 


i56o  WALTON. 

enlarged  .  .  .  London,  Printed  by  T.  M.  for  Rich.  Harriot,  and  are 
to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  St.  Di/nstans  Cliurch-yard  Fleetstreet.  1655. 
Sm.  8vo.    o.  M. 

A— Q  in  twelves.     The  second  edition  is  certainly  rarer  than  the  first. 

WALTON,  IzAAK.    The  Compleat  Angler To  which   is 

added  The  Laws  of  Angling  :  with  a  new  Table  of  the  Particulars  in 
this  Book.  The  third  Edition  much  enlarged.  London,  Printed  by 
J.  G.  for  Rieh.  Marriot.  .  .  .  1661.    Sm.  8vo.   O.  M. 

A — S  in  eights. 

The  Compleat  Angler,  .  .  .  The  third  Edition  much  enlarged. 

London,  Printed  for  R.  Marriot,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Simon  Gape  neer 
the  Liner  Temple-Gate  in  Fleetstreet.    1664.    Sm.  8vo.    O.  M. 

A — S  in  eights. 

This  is  the  same  book  as  that  dated  166 1,  except  that  a  new  title-page  has  been 
added  to  the  unsold  copies. 

The  Compleat  Angler,  ....  The  fourth  Edition,  much  cor- 
rected and  enlarged.  London,  Printed  for  R.  Marriot,  and  are  to  be 
sold  by  Charles  Harper  at  his  Shop,  the  next  door  to  the  Crown  near 
Sergeants-Inn  hi  Chancery-lane,  1668.    Sm.  8vo.    o.  M. 

A — S  in  eights.    A  paginary  reprint  of  the  edition  of  1661. 

The  Universal  Angler,  Made  so,  by  Three  Books  of  Fishing. 


The  First  Written  by  Mr.  Izaak  Walton  ;  The  Second  By  Charles 
Cotton  Esq.  ;  The  Third  By  Col.  Robert  Venables.  All  which  may  be 
bound  together,  or  sold  each  of  them  severally.  London,  Printed  for 
Richard  Marriott,  and  sold  by  most  Booksellers.  MDCLXXVL  Sm. 
8vo.  O.  M. 

A — U  4  in  eights,  last  leaf  blank,  besides  general  title  and  half-title  to  Part  i,  2 
leaves  ;  the  Second  Part  :  A,  4  leaves  ;  B — H  in  eights  ;  Part  3  :  The  Experienc'd 

Angler, The  Fourth  Edition  much  Enlarged.    A — H  3  in  eights,  including 

the  frontispiece. 

The  Complete  Angler :  Or,  Contemplative  Man's  Recreation, 


....  To  which  are  now  prefixed.  The  Lives  of  the  Authors.  Illustrated 
with  Cuts  .  .  .  and  Notes  Historical,  Critical  and  Explanatory.  Lon- 
don :  1 760.    8vo.    Plates.    R.  M. 

This  is  one  of  the  very  few  copies  struck  off  on  fine  paper.  In  the  original  red 
morocco  binding. 

From  the  libraries  of  Horace  Walpole  and  Mr.  Daniel. 

The  Complete  Angler  or  the  Contemplative  Man's  Recrea- 


tion ....  With  Original  Memoirs  and  Notes  by  Sir  Harris  Nicolas. 

....  London.     IV.  Pickering  .  .  .   1836.    8vo.    2  vols.    Plates.    G.  M. 

With  India  proof  impressions  of  the  plates. 


WALTON— WANDERING   LADY.  1561 

WALTON,  IZAAK.  The  Life  of  Mr.  George  Herbert.  Written 
by  Izaack  Walton.  Wisdom  of  Solom.  iv.  10.  He  pleased  Cod,  &c. 
London,  Printed  by  The  :  Neiveonih,  for  Rieliard  Marriott,  sold  by  most 
Booksellers.   M.DC.LXX.    Sm.  8vo.    Portrait. 

A — K  2  in  eights,  including  the  portrait. 

On  H  5  occur  with  a  new  title-page  the  Letters  written  by  Herbert  while  at 
Cambridge,  and  others  written  by  Donne  to  Lady  Magdalen  Herbert. 

The  Lives  of    D'.  John    Donne,    Sir  Henry  Wotton,    Mr. 

Richard  Hooker,  Mr.  George  Herbert.  Written  by  Isaak  Walton.  To 
which  are  added  some  Letters  written  by  Mr.  George  Herbert,  at  his 
being  in  Cambridge  :  with  others  to  his  Mother,  the  Lady  Magdalen 
Herbert,  written  by  John  Donne,  afterwards  Dean  of  St.  Pauls. 
Eccles.  xliv.  7.  These  were  Honourable  men  in  their  Generations.  Lon- 
don, Printed  by  Tho.  Neweoinb  for  Richard  Marriott.  Sold  by  most 
Booksellers.     1670.    8vo.    Portrait.    R. 

A — G4  in  eights,  first  and  last  leaves  of  A  blank;  the  "  Life  of  Wotton,"  A,  4 
leaves  ;  B — F  4  in  eights,  with  a  portrait  of  Wotton  ;  the  "  Life  of  Hooker,"  A,  4 
leaves  ;  B — H  in  eights,  and  a  portrait ;  the  "  Life  of  Herbert,"  A — G  4  in  eights, 
with  a  portrait. 

This  is  the  first  collected  edition.  Some  of  the  errors  of  the  press  are  corrected 
in  Walton's  hand. 

The  Lives  of  Dr.  John  Donne,  Sir  Henry  Wotton,  Mr.  Richard 

Hooker,  Mr.  George  Herbert.  Written  by  Isaak  Walton.  The  Fourth 
Edition.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  by  Tho.  Roycroftfor  Richard  Mar  riot, 
&c.  1675.    8vo. 

A — Aa  4  in  eights,  including  separate  titles  to  each  portion  of  the  volume,  and 
four  portraits,  which  count  in  the  sheets. 

A  presentation  copy,  with  an  inscription  in  the  author's  autograph  on  the  back 
of  the  portrait  of  Donne,  "  ffor  my  Coz  Mat.  Kenrick.  Iz:  Wa."  On  the  fly-leaf 
occurs  :  "  Matthew  Kenrick  his  Book  1675.  London,  the  7th  of  August,  1675,  the 
gift  of  Coz  Isaac  Walton,  eta:  84." 

The  Life  of  Dr.  Sanderson,  late  Bishop  of  Lincoln.    Written 

by  Isaak  Walton.  To  which  is  added.  Some  short  Tracts  or  Cases  of 
Conscience,  written  by  the  said  Bishop.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  for 
Richard  Marriott.  1678.    8vo.    R. 

A,  8  leaves,  first  blank  ;  a — o  in  eights  ;  A — T  4  in  eights.  With  a  portrait  of 
Bp.  Sanderson. 

WANDERING  LADY.  The  Wandering  Lady,  Or,  the  Kentish 
Pilgrim  :  Being  a  very  Strange  and  Wonderful  Relation  of  a  certain 
Beautiful  Gentlewoman,  about  26  Years  of  Age,  lately  discover'd  near 
Canterbury  in  Kent,  disguised  like  a  Nun,  in  strange  Apparel ;  who 

Cures  all  manner  of  Diseases London :  Printed  for  J.  Brown 

near  Fleetstreet,  lyo^.    8vo. 

Four  leaves.    Woodcut  on  title. 


1562  WANDESFORDE—WARD. 

WANDESFORDE,  Sir  Christopher.  A  Book  of  Instructions, 
to  his  Son  and  Heir,  George  Wandesforde,  Esq. ;  in  order  to  the 
regulating  the  conduct  of  his  whole  life.  Cambridge  1777.  2  vols. 
in  I.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

WAPEN.  Des  heyligen  Romischen  Reichs  Teutscher  nation. 
Der  Churfiirsten,  Fiirsten  Grauen  Freihen,  Rittern,  Auch  der  merer 
theil  Stett  so  zu  dem  Reich  (in  Teutschem  land  gelegen)  gehoren  und 
gehort  haben.  .  .  .  [Colophon.]  Zu  Franckficrtli  am  Main,  Truckts 
Cyriacus  Jacob.  Anno.  Domini.  1545.    Folio.     Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  sigs.  B — E  in  fours  ;  51 — £  in  fours  ;  fl  6  C  in 
fours.     Three  leaves  of  register  and  i  leaf  with  the  printer's  device. 

WARD,  Edward.    History  of  the  Grand  Rebellion  ;  Containing 

the  most  Remarkable  Transactions  from  the  beginning  of  the  Reign 

of  King  Charles  the  First  to  the  Happy  Restoration.    Together  with 

the  Impartial  Characters  of  the  most  Famous  and  Infamous  Persons, 

for  and  against  the  Monarchy.     Digested  into  Verse.    Illustrated  with 

about  a    Hundred   Heads.  .  .  .  London.  MDCCXIII.    3   vols.    8vo. 

Portraits. 

The  plates  in  this  copy  are  proofs  before  numbers. 

WARD,  Hugh.  Sancti  Rvmoldi  Martyris  inclyti,  Archiepiscopi 
Dvbliniensis,  Mechliniensivm  Apostoli,  ....  Acta,  martyrium  liturgia 
antiqua,  &  patria,  Ex  antiquissimis  cum  manu,  tum  prelo  editis  harum 
rerum  Scriptoribus,  summa  fide  Collecta,  Notis  illustrata,  &  aucta 
disqvisitione  historica  Seu  investigatione  genuinae  Scotiae  S.  Rumoldi 

&  contribulium  Sanctorum.    Per  R.  P.  F.  Hugonem  Vardaeum 

Lovanii  Typis  Petri  Sasseni,  ante  Hallas.    Anno.  1662.    4to.    BL.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  16  leaves  ;  pp.  1-398  ;  index  and  errata,  11  leaves. 
There  is  a  large  folding  leaf  between  pp.  366-7. 

WARD,  John.  The  first  set  of  English  Madrigals  To  3.  4.  5  and 
6  parts  apt  both  for  Viols  and  Voyces.  With  a  mourning  Song  in 
memory  of  Prince  Henrj'.  Newly  composed  by  lohn  Ward.  Printed 
by  Tlwmas  Snodham.  161 3.    6  parts  in  i  vol.    4to.    o.  M. 

Cantus  consists  of  17  leaves  ;  Tenor,  14  leaves  ;  Altus,  17  leaves  ;  Bassus,  17 
leaves  ;  Quintus,  1 1  leaves  ;  Sextus,  8  leaves  ;  including  title  and  dedication  to 
each  part. 

WARD,  John.  An  Encovragement  to  Warre.  Or,  Bellvm  Parlia- 
mentale.  Shewing  The  unlawfulnesse  of  the  late  Bellum  Episcopale. 
As  also  the  Justnesse  of  this  present  Expedition  for  the  defence  of  the 

KingdoiTi \_No  place,  printers  name,  or  date.]    {About  1640.] 

4to. 


WARD— WARNER.  1563 

A — C  2  in  fours.     In  verse.     An  engraving  on  the  title. 

In  the  dedication  to  his  "  Worthy  and  much  esteemed  good  Friends,"  Mr. 
John  MiUington,  Mr.  Peter  Goodwin,  and  Mr.  Samuel  Clark,  the  writer  apologizes 
for  the  imperfections  of  his  "  infant  Muse." 

WARD,  Samuel.  Deo  trin-vni  Britanniae  bis  ultoro.  In  memo- 
riam  Classis  invincibilis  subversae  submers^u  Proditionis  ncfandae 
detectse  dissectae.  To  God,  In  memorye  of  his  double  deliverance 
from  the  invincible  Navie  and  the  unmatcheable  powder  Treason. 
1588.  1605.  Invented  by  Samuell  Ward  preacher  of  Ipswich.  Im- 
printed at  Amsterdam  Anno  \6z\.    A  large  Broadside. 

In  the  centre  is  an  engraving  of  the  Pope  and  his  adherents  in  council,  with  a 
view  of  the  Parliament  house  on  the  right-hand  side,  and  Faux  advancing  with  his 
lantern  towards  the  cellar,  while  on  the  left  hand  we  see  the  Spanish  Armada 
drawn  up  in  the  form  of  a  horse-shoe.  At  the  foot  are  three  sets  of  verses,  a  Latin 
hexameter  and  pentameter,  and  a  quatrain  in  English,  each  descriptive  of  a  portion 
of  the  plate.  Above,  in  the  clouds,  are  cherubim  shedding  rays  of  light  on  the 
deeds  of  darkness  projected  against  England  by  her  Romish  enemies. 

WARE,  Sir  James.  The  whole  Works  of  Sir  James  Ware  con- 
cerning Ireland.  Revised  and  Improved.  .  .  .  The  whole  adorned  with 
Variety  of  Copper  Plates.  .  .  .  Dublin:  Printed  for  the  Author  1739- 
46.    3  vols,  in  2.    Folio.   Large  paper.    Portrait  and  plates.    R.  M. 

In  the  Grenville  Catalogue  it  is  stated  that  only  six  copies  were  printed  on  large 
paper,  but  that  is  certainly  an  error,  as  is  also  the  opinion  expressed  that  the  plates 
of  Costume  are  always  on  small  paper.  They  are  here  the  same  size  as  the  book 
with  one  exception. 

WARLY,  John.  English  Iliads,  or  A  Sea-Fight  reviewed  in  a 
Poem  Occasioned  by  the  death  of  a  person  of  Honour  Slain  in  the 
late  War  between  the  English  and  the  Dutch.  By  J.  W.  Together 
with  an  Irenicum,  or  Reflections  on  the  Trumpeter  and  Conditions  of 
Peace. . .  .  London,  Printed  in  the  year,  1674.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  3  in  fours. 

From  the  Lee-Warly  collection  near  Canterbury.  The  person  of  honour  was 
Lord  Maidstone. 

WARNER,  Richard.  Collections  for  the  History  of  Hampshire. 
London  \_\'](^l^    6  vols,  in  3.    4to.    Large  paper.    BL.  M. 

WARNER,  William.  The  First  and  Second  parts  of  Albions 
England.  The  former  reuised  and  corrected,  and  the  latter  newly 
continued  and  added.  Containing  an  Historicall  Map  of  the  same 
Island :  prosecuted  from  the  Hues,  Actes,  and  Labors  of  Saturne, 
lupiter,  Hercules,  and  yEneas :  Originalles  of  the  Brutons,  and  Eng- 
lishmen, and  Occasion  of  the  Brutons  their  first  ariuall  in  Albion. 
Prosecuting  the  same  Historic  vnto  the  Tribute  to  the  Romaines, 
Entrie   of  the   Saxones,  Inuasion  by  the  Danes,   Conquest  by  the 


i5<54  WARNER. 

Normaines,  Restauration  of  the  Royall  English  blood,  Discention  and 
vnion  of  the  two  Linages  Lancaster  and  Yorke.  With  Historical  1 
Intermixtures,  Inuention,  and  Varietie:  profitably,  briefly,  and 
pleasantly  performed  in  Verse  and  Prose  by  William  Warner.  Im- 
printed at  London  by  Thomas  Orzuinfor  Thomas  Cadman,  dwelling  at 
the  great  North-doore  of  Sainct  P aides  Church  at  the  signe  of  tlie  Bible. 
1589.    4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

IT,  4  leaves,  first  blank  ;  A — Aa  2  in  fours,  except  N  and  O,  which  have  only  two 
leaves  each.  The  second  book  has  a  separate  title  and  dedication.  On  sig.  X 
begins  an  addition  to  the  second  book,  which  is  in  prose.  Of  the  first  book  there 
was  an  edition  in  1586;  but  this  is  the  first  appearance  of  the  two  together. 
Between  U  and  U  2  is  a  folding  woodcut,  a  copy  of  the  title-page  to  Hall's 
Chronicle,  1550. 

From  Mr.  George  Smith's  collection. 

WARNER,  William.  Albions  England.  A  Continved  Historic 
Of  The  Same  Kingdome,  from  the  originals  Of  the  first  Inhabitants 
thereof :  With  the  most  chiefe  Alterations  and  Accidents  there  hapning, 
vnto,  and  in  thehappie  Raigne  of  our  now  most  Soueraigne  Lord  King 
lames.  Not  barren  in  Varietie  Of  Inventive  And  Historicall  Inter- 
mixtures. First  penned  and  published  by  William  Warner :  and  now 
reuised,  and  newly  enlarged  a  little  before  his  Death.  Whereunto  is  also 
newly  added  an  Epitome  of  the  whole  Historic  of  England.  London 
Printed  for  G.  P.  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Richard  Moore  at  his  Shop  in 
Saint  Dunstons  Church-yard  in  Fleet-streete.  161 2.    4to.    CM. 

A — Y  4  in  eights. 

A  Continvance  of  Albions  England  :  By  the  first  Author. 


W.  W.  London,  Imprinted  by  Felix  Kyngston  for  George  Potter,  and 
are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Paids  Church-yard,  at  the  sig>ic  of  the  Bible. 
1606.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours  ;  A,  blank,  and  b,  2  leaves  between  A  and  B. 

This  is  bound  up,  as  usual,  with  the  edition  of  the  original  work  issued  in  1612, 
and  has  at  the  end  the  prose  epitome  mentioned  in  the  first  title,  which  collates, 
Z,  4  leaves  (continued  from  Y  as  described  above)  ;  Aa — Dd  in  eights.  The  con- 
tinuation is  dedicated  by  the  author  to  Sir  Edward  Coke. 

Syrinx,  or  A  seauenfold  Historie,  handled  with  varietie  of 


pleasant  and  profitable  both  commicall  and  tragicall  Argument. 
Newly  perused  and  amended  by  the  first  Author.  W.  Warner.  At 
London  Printed  by  Thomas  Purfoot  and  are  to  bee  sould  in  Pawles 
Churchyard  at  the  signe  of  the  Bible,  i^gj.    4to.     Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A — U  in  fours,  title  on  A  2,  and  (between  A  and  B)  ^,  2  leaves. 

A  work  of  prose  fiction,  of  which  there  is  an  earlier  and  less  correct  impression, 
attributed  to  15S5,  the  book  having  been  licensed  in  1584.  The  first  edition  was 
dedicated  to  Sir  George  Casey,  Lord  Hunsdon,  and  the  author  here  retains  the 
dedication,  or,  as  he  expresses  it,  "most  humbly  continueth  the  recommended 
patronage  of  his  reformed  Syrinx."   Both  editions  are  of  the  greatest  rarity,  the  only 


WARNING— WARREN.  1565 

other  copy  known  of  this,  being  that  which  was  formerly  in  the  Roxburghe  and 
White  Knight  collections,  and  is  now  in  the  British  Museum. 

Warner's  "Syrinx"  is  described  by  Warton  as  "a  novel,  or  rather  a  suite  of 
stories,  much  in  the  style  of  the  adventures  in  Heliodorus's  Ethiopia  Romance." 

WARNING  FOR  FAIR  WOMEN.  A  Warning  for  Faire  Women. 
Containing,  The  most  tragicall  and  lamentable  murther  of  Master 
George  Sanders  of  London  Marchant,  nigh  Shooters  Hill.  Consented 
vnto  By  his  owne  wife,  acted  by  M.  Browne,  Mistris  Drewry  and 
Trusty  Roger  agents  therin  :  with  their  scuerall  ends.  As  it  hath 
beene  lately  diuerse  times  acted  by  the  right  Honorable,  the  Lord 
Chamberlaine  his  Seruantes.  Printed  at  London  by  Valentine  Sims  for 
William  Aspley.  I'^gi^.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A— K  3  in  fours. 

It  has  been  strenuously  asserted  by  some  writers  th.it  Shakespeare  must  have 
had  some  hand  in  the  composition  of  this  remarkable  oldplay,  but  the  proposition  has 
been  as  strenuously  denied  by  others.  The  style  of  certain  passages  is  of  course  all 
that  can  be  adduced  in  favour  of  the  idea. 

From  Mr.  Daniel's  collection. 

WARREN,  Arthur.  The  Poore  Mans  passions.  And  Pouerties 
Patience.  Written  by  Arthur  Warren.  Anno.  Dom.  1605.  At  London, 
Printed  by  I.  R.  for  R.  B.  and  are  to  be  sold  in  Paules  Church-yard,  at 
tlie  signe  of  the  Sun.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves ;  B — K  i  in  fours. 

A  poem  in  stanzas  of  six  lines,  in  which  measure  also  is  the  author's  dedication 
in  verse  "  To  his  kindest  Fauourer  Maister  Robert  Quarme." 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  Bright  and  Mr.  Corser,  with  the  autograph  of  Sir 
Hamon  L'Estrange  on  the  title-page.  For  an  account  of  the  book,  see  Collier's 
"  Bibl.  Cat.,"  ii.,  487. 

WARREN,  William.  A  pleasant  new  Fancie  of  a  fondlings 
deuice  :  Intitled  and  cald  the  Nvrcerie  of  names.  Wherein  is  presented 
(to  the  order  of  our  Alphabet)  the  brandishing  brightnes  of  our  Eng- 
lish Gentlewomen.  Contriued  and  written,  in  this  last  time  of  vaca- 
tion :  and  now  first  published  and  committed  to  printing,  this  present 
month  of  mery  May.  By  Guillam  de  Warrino.  Imprinted  at  London 
by  Richard  IJiones,  dwelling  oner  against  the  signe  of  the  Faulcon.  neere 
Holburne  Bridge.    1581.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — I  2  in  fours.     In  verse. 

On  A  2  are  some  mottoes  and  verses,  and  on  A  3,  "  The  Projeme,  to  the  Gentle- 
men Readers."  On  B  i  is  an  Address  to  the  Gentlewomen  of  England.  The  volume 
consists  of  a  series  of  poems  on  the  Christian  names  of  women  from  "  Anne "  to 
"  Ursula,"  except  Q,  for  which  the  author's  ingenuity  failed  to  supply  him  with  a 
representative. 

From  the  libraries  of  the  Duke  of  Roxburghe,  Mr.  Jolley,  and  Mr.  Corser.  The 
only  other  copy  known  is  that  at  Britwell,  formerly  Mr.  Heber's. 

9  D 


1566  WARTON—WASSENAER. 

"  This  copy  formerly  belonged  to  Mr.  Jo.  Robinson,  who  was  the  possessor  of  some 
of  the  rarest  books  I  ever  saw  ;  then  to  the  Chauncy,  Steevens,  Roxburghe,  White- 
Knights,  and  Pen7  collections."— ^/i".  Notf  by  Mr.  jolley  (Catalogue,  part  4,  p.  106). 

The  author  in  "  The  ProKme  "  speaks  of  this  as  his  "  first  effort,"  but  in  Arber's 
"Transcript,"  v.  II.  153b,  Nov.  7,  1578,  we  find  licensed  to  Richard  Jones,"  A  pithie 
and  pleausaunt  discourse  Dialoguewyse  betwene  a  welthie  citizen  and  a  miserable 
souldiour  briefelye  touchinge  the  commodyties  and  discommodyties  both  of  warre 
and  peace  by  W.  Warren."  No  copy  of  this  book  is  known  to  exist.  If  it  were  in 
prose,  it  is  probable  that  the  author  speaks  of  "The  Nurserie  of  Names"  as  his 
"  first  effort "  in  verse. 

WARTON,  Thomas.  History  of  English  Poetry.  London.  1824. 
4  vols.    8vo.    Portrait. 

WARWICK,  Arthur.  Spare-Minutes  :  Or,  Resolved  Medita- 
tions and  Premeditated  Resolvtions.  Written  by  A.  W.  — Ego  air 
acquirere  pauca  Si  possini  invideor  ?  The  second  Edition  corrected 
and  enlarged.  London,  Printed  by  G.  AT.  for  Walter  Hammond,  and 
are  to  be  sold  by  Michael  Sparke  in  Greene  Arbour  1634.     Sm.  8vo. 

A — I  in  twelves,  the  two  last  leaves  blank.  On  E  5  is  the  title  to  the  second 
part. 

Of  the  first  edition  of  this  work  no  copy  appears  to  have  come  down  to  us,  and 
this  is  believed  to  be  the  only  copy  known  of  the  second  edition.  It  was  licensed 
to  Walter  Hammond,  24th  March,  1631-2. 

WASE,  Christopher.    Considerations  concerning  Free-schools, 

As  settled  in  England.    Printed  at  the  Theater  in  Oxford  .  .  .  Anno 

1678.    8vo.    BL.  M. 

a,  4  leaves  ;  A — G  in  eights. 

WASHBOURNE,  Thomas.  Divine  Poems,  written  by  Thomas 
Washbourne,  Bachelour  in  Divinity.  Onine  tulit,  &c.  [Quotation 
from  Herbert's  Church  Porch.]  London,  Printed  for  Humphrey 
Mosclcy,  at  the  Princes  Arms  in  S.  Paul's  Church-yard.  1654.  Sm. 
8vo. 

A — G  in  twelves,  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

Dedicated  to  Lady  Vere,  with  commendatory  verses  by  Martin  Llewellyn,  &c. 

WASHINGTON'S  Farewell  Address  to  the  People  of  the  United 
States  of  America.    New  York.   1850.    Folio.    Portraits. 

Printed  for  presents  only  from  the  original  manuscript  in  the  autograph  of 
Washington,  now  in  the  possession  of  Mr.  James  Lenox  of  New  York,  by  whom 
this  copy  was  presented. 

WASSENAER,  Claes.  Historisch  verhael  alder  ghedennck- 
weerdichste  geschiednisse  die  hier  en  daer  in  Europa,  als  in  Duytsch- 
lant,  Vranckrijck,  Enghelant,  Spaengien,  Hungarijen,  Polen,  Scven- 
berghen,  Wallachien,  Moldavien,   Turckijen  en  Neder-lant,  van  den 


IVA  S  TEL—  WA  TSON.  1567 

beginne  des  jaers  1621  :  tot  den  Ilerfst  toe,  voorgevallen  syn.  t'Am- 
stelredam  Bij  Ian  Evcrtsz.  Cloppcnhirghop't  Water  1622-32.  21  parts 
in  7  vols.    4to. 

WASTEL,  Simon.  A  Trve  Christians  Daily  Delight :  Being  The 
Summe  of  euery  Chapter  of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  set  downe 
Alphabetically,  in  English  Verse  ....  By  Simon  Wastel,  sometimes 
of  Oueenes  Colledge  in  Oxford,  now  Schoole-Master  of  the  Free- 
Schoole  in  Northampton.  [Mottoes.]  London,  Printed  by  G.  Eld  and 
M.  Flesher,  for  Robert  Mylboiirnc  .  .  .  1623.    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  8  leaves  ;  B — K  4  in  twelves,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

WATERHOUS,  Edward.  A  Discourse  and  Defence  of  Arms 
and  Armory,  shewing  The  Nature  and  Rises  of  Arms  and  Honour  in 
England,  from  the  Camp,  the  Court,  the  City  :  vnder  The  two  later  of 
which,  are  contained  Universities  and  Inns  of  Court.  [Quotations  from 
Tacitus  and  Menander.]  London,  Printed  by  T.  R.for  Samuel Mearne, 
in  Little  Britain,  1660.    8vo.    R. 

A,  4  leaves,  including  a  frontispiece  ;  B — Q  4  in  eights. 

WATERMEN.  To  the  Supreme  Authority  of  the  Parliament  of 
the  Common-wealth  of  England.  The  Humble  Address  and  Con- 
gratulation of  many  thousands  of  Watermen  belonging  to  the  River  of 
Thames.  London,  Printed  by  John  Streater  and  John  Mcccock,  Printers 
to  the  Parliament.    1659.    A  Broadside. 

WATES,  Richard.  A  Dialogue  between  Life  and  Death.  Very 
Requisite  for  the  Contemplation  of  all  Transitory  Pilgrims,  And  pious 
minded  Christians.  London,  Printed  for  John  Wright,  at  the  Croivn 
upon  Ludgate-Hill,  and  Thomas  Passinger,  at  the  Three  Bibles  on  Lon- 
don-Bridge.  i6'j<).    Sm.  8vo.     Woodeuts. 

A — C  in  eights.     In  verse. 

From  the  library  of  the  Duke  of  Sussex.  There  were  probably  earlier  editions, 
but  none  are  recorded. 

WATKYNS,  Rowland.  Flamma  Sine  Fumo:  or.  Poems  with- 
out Fictions.  .  .  .  By  R.  W.  London,  Printed  for  William  Leake,  at 
the  Crown  in  Fleetstreet  between  the  two  Temple-gates.    1662.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — G  6  in  twelves. 

Dedicated  to  the  Honorable  Colonel,  S^  Herbert  Prise,  Knight.  From  the 
libraries  of  Heber  and  Miss  Currer.  Watkyns  was  minister  of  St.  Baru  in  Breck- 
nockshire, and  in  some  Latin  verses  near  the  end  of  the  book  he  does  not  draw 
a  very  favourable  portrait  of  his  neighbours  : — 

"  Terra  bona  est,  maia  gens,  litigiosa,  sagax." 

WATSON,  James.  The  History  of  the  Art  of  Printing,  Contain- 
ing an  Account  of  It's  Invention  and  Progress  in  Europe  :  With  The 


1568  WATSON. 

Names  of  the  Famous  Printers,  The  Places  of  Their  Birth,  And  the 
Works  printed  by  Them,  and  A  Preface  by  the  PubHsher  to  The  Printers 
in  Scotland.  Edinburgh:  Printed  by  James  Watson  .  .  .  .M.DCC.XIII. 
8vo. 

A,  8  leaves  ;  a,  4  leaves  ;  b — d  in  eights  ;  A — D  in  eights. 

The  book  concludes  with  some  verses  headed,  "  A  Contemplation  upon  the 
Mystery  of  Man's  Regeneration,  in  allusion  to  the  Mystery  of  Printing." 

WATSON,  Thomas.  The  EKATOMnAQIA  or  Passionate  Centurie 
of  Loue,  Diuided  into  two  parts :  whereof,  the  first  expresseth  the 
Authors  sufferance  in  Loue :  the  latter,  his  long  farewell  to  Loue  and 
all  his  tyrannic.  Composed  by  Thomas  Watson  Gentleman  ;  and  pub- 
lished at  the  request  of  certaine  Gentlemen  his  very  frendes.  London 
Imprinted  by  loJm  Wolfe  for  Gabriel  I  Caivood,  dwelling  in  P  aides 
Churchyard  at  the  Signe  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  [1582.]  4to.  Black 
letter.    R.  M. 

Title,  dedication,  commendatory  verses  by  T.  Acheley,  M.  Roydon,  G.  Peele, 
G.  Bucke,  and  others,  8  leaves,  the  first  blank. 

The  only  other  perfect  copies  known  are  those  in  the  Bodleian  (two),  British 
Museum,  the  Britwell  librar)',  and  a  fifth,  formerly  belonging  to  Mr.  Bright  and  Mr. 
Corser,  and  now  in  the  library  of  E.  G.  Asay,  Esq.,  of  Chicago. 

The  first  sett,  Of  Italian  Madrigalls  Englished,  not  to  the 

sense  of  the  original  dittie,  but  after  the  affection  of  the  Noate.  By 
Thomas  Watson  Gentleman.  There  are  also  heere  inserted  two  ex- 
cellent Madrigalls  of  Master  William  Byrds,  composed  after  the  Italian 
vaine,  at  the  request  of  the  sayd  Thomas  Watson.  Imprinted  at  London 
by  Thotnas  Este,  the  assign^  of  William  Byrd,  &  are  to  be  sold  at  the 
house  of  the  sayd  T.  Este,  being  in  Alder sgate  street,  at  the  signe  of  the 
black  Horse.     1590.    Cum  Priuilegio.  .  ,  .  Si.x  parts.    4to.    G.  M. 

Each  part  contains  title  and  dedication,  2  leaves  ;  B — E  2  in  fours,  except 
Sextus,  which  has  only  title,  &c.,  2  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves,  and  Medius,  which  has  only 
title,  &c.,  2  leaves,  and  B — D  2  in  fours. 

Each  part  is  dedicated  by  Watson  in  Latin  verse  to  Robert  Devereux,  Earl  of 
Essex,  and  on  the  back  of  the  title  there  is  another  inscription  in  Latin  verse  to 
a  musical  friend,  Luca  Marenzio,  the  author  of  the  harmony,  which  Watson,  in  his 
lines  to  Essex,  describes  as  "  Marenzasos  cantus." 

WATSON,  Thomas.  Two  notable  Sermons,  made  the  thirde  and 
fyfte  Fridayes  in  Lent  last  past,  before  the  Quenes  highnes,  concem- 
inge  the  reall  presence  of  Christes  body  and  bloude  in  the  blessed 
Sacramentes :  &  also  the  Masse,  which  is  the  sacrifice  of  the  newe 
Testament.  By  Thomas  Watson,  Doctour  of  Diuinitie.  [Colophon.] 
Imprinted  at  London  in  Panics  Churchyarde,  at  the  sygne  of  the  holye 
Ghost,  by  John  Cawood,  Printer  to  the  Quenes  hyghnes.     The  tenth  day 


WA  TS  0  TV—  WATT  ON.  1 569 

of  May.    Anno  domini.  I'-i'i^.    Cmn  priuilegio  Regince  MaricB.   Sm.  8vo. 

Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

A — Z  in  eiglUs  ;  and  z,  7  leaves. 

WATSON,  Thomas.  Holsomc  and  Catholykc  doctrync  conccrn- 
inge  the  seuen  Sacramentes  of  Christcs  Church,  expedient  to  be  knowen 
of  all  men,  set  forth  in  manerof  shortc  Sermons  to  bee  made  to  the  people, 
by  the  reuerend  father  in  God  Thomas  byshop  of  Lincolne.  Anno.  1 558. 
Mense  Febmarij.  Excusum  Londini  in  adibus  Roberti  Calf,  TypograpJii. 
Cum  prmilegio  .  .  .  4to.    Black  letter.    liR.  M. 

Title  within  a  compartment,  contents,  and  a  blank,  4  leaves  ;  A — I  in  eights  ; 
K,  12  leaves  ;  L — Aa  7  in  eights,  Aa  7  having  the  colophon  dated  the  loth 
February,  1558. 

WATSON,  William.  A  Sparing  Discoverie  of  ovr  English  lesvits, 
and  of  Fa.  Parsons  proceedings  vnder  pretence  of  promoting  the  Catho- 
like  faith  in  England  :  For  a  Caueat  to  all  true  Catholiks,  our  very 
louing  brethren  and  friends,  how  they  embrace  such  very  vncatholike, 
though  lesuiticall  deseignments.  [Quotation  from  Eccl.  4.]  Neivly 
Imprinted.  1601.    4to.    R.  M. 

A,  3  leaves,  title  on  A  2  ;  a,  4  leaves  ;  B — K  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

WATT,  Robert.  Bibliotheca  Critannica.  Edinburgh  .  .  .  1824. 
4  vols,  in  2.    4to.    BR.  M. 

[WATTON,  John.]    [Speculum  Christiani.]  Hie  incipit  liber  de 

speculo  xani Prohemium.  IVIagna  differecia  e  int^  |)dicac6m  & 

doctrinam MS.  of  the  fifteenth  century  on  vellum.    4to. 

This  work  is  attributed  to  John  Watton,  an  English  priest,  who  lived  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  fifteenth  century. 

The  body  of  the  book  is  in  Latin,  and  begins  with  a  statement  concerning  the 
duty  of  teaching  religious  truths,  citing  the  Lambeth  Constitution  of  Archbishop 
Peckham  in  1281,  by  which  priests  were  ordered  to  expound  at  certain  intervals  the 
articles  of  faith,  the  precepts  of  charity,  the  seven  works  of  piety,  the  seven  deadly 
sins,  &c.  In  the  course  of  his  work  the  author  gives  a  rhyming  version  of  the 
Decalogue,  verses  in  which  the  seven  deadly  sins  express  themselves,  a  kind  of 
sermon  on  these  sins  in  prose,  followed  by  various  other  metrical  counsels,  and  a 
hymn  to  the  Virgin,  all  in  English.  In  this  hymn  a  couplet  is  found  in  the  MS.,  one 
half  only  of  which  appears  in  the  printed  book.  After  the  words,  "  Crete  the  with 
Avys  five,"  near  the  end,  the  MS.  proceeds,  "  A  paternoster  and  a  crede,"  which  is 
necessary  to  rhyme  with  "  To  helpe  me  lady  at  my  nede."  On  the  other  hand  this 
MS.  omits  the  last  couplet,  which  is  found  in  Machlinia's  edition. 

Occasionally  the  verses  differ  materially  from  the  printed  copy,  as  the  following: — 
MS.  Machlinia. 

I  chyde  and  fyght  and  malas  faste  I  chide  I  flite  I  manace  faste 

All  my  foe  men  I  will  downe  caste  Alle  my  fo  men  I  doun  caste 

Mercy  on  hem  I  will  non  haue  Mercy  on  hem  wille  I  not  haue 

But  veniance  strong  so  god  me  saue  But  vengeaunce  strong  so  wood  I  raue 


IS70  WATTON— WATTS. 

[WATTON,  John].  [Speculum  Christian!.]  Another  MS.  of  the 
same  work  on  44  leaves  of  vellum.  Written  in  the  fifteenth  century. 
Folio.    BR.  M. 

This  also  varies  in  some  of  the  English  verses,  as  for  example  : — 
MS.  Machlinia. 

Thi  goddes  name  in  vanyte  Thy  goddes  name  in  vanitee 

(jow  schalt  not  take  for  wele  ne  wo  Thou  schalt  not  take  for  wel  nor  woo 

ffals  sweryng  and  vayne  loke  V  V  fle  Dismembre  hym  not  that  on  rode  tree 

Yf  t)"  to  heuen  thenk  for  to  go.  For  the  was  maade  bothe  blake  and  bloo 

On  the  last  leaf  is  written  : — 

Orate  pro  aia  Willi  fflete 
pro  am  ore  ihu  xpi. 
Deo  gras. 
William  Flete  being  probably  the  name  of  the  scribe. 

Incipit  liber  qui  vocatur   Speculum  Xpristiani.    [Colophon.] 


Iste  Libcllus  ivip ssiis est  i  opiilcntissina  Ciititate  Londonia^^  p  mc  Wil- 
lelmu  de  Machlinia  ad  instanciam  Jiecnon  expensas  Hcnrici  Vranken- 
bergh  mercatoris.    [CiVrf^  1480.]    4to.    Black  letter.    CM. 

One  hundred  and  sixteen  leaves.     Without  catchwords  or  signatures. 

WATTS,  Isaac.  The  Art  of  Reading  and  Writing  English  :  Or, 
The  Chief  Principles  and  Rules  of  Pronouncing  our  Mother-Tongue 
both  in  Prose  and  Verse  ;  with  a  Variety  of  Instructions  for  True  Spell- 
ing. Written  at  first  for  Private  Use,  and  now  Published  for  the  Benefit 
of  all  Persons  who  desire  a  better  Acquaintance  with  their  Native 
Language  ....  London :  Printed  for  Jolin  Clark  .  .  .  M.DCC.XXI. 
8vo. 

A — P  in  sixes.  With  a  dedication  "  To  Mrs.  Sarah,  Mrs.  Mary,  and  Mrs.  Elizabeth, 
Abney,  Daughters  of  Sir  Thomas  Abney  Knt.  and  Alderman  of  London,"  by  their 
affectionate  Instructor,  I.  Watts,  dated  from  Theobalds  in  Hertfordshire,  July  31, 1720. 
This  dedication  is  of  much  interest,  and  refers  to  the  neglect  of  the  subjects  here 
dealt  with  till  the  establishment  of  a  school  at  Cheshunt  under  the  patronage  of 
the  Abneys.  This  copy  was  presented  by  the  author  to  Lady  Abney,  in  whose 
family,  as  it  is  well  known,  he  was  long  domesticated.  An  autograph  memorandum 
on  the  flyleaf  says  :  "  To  the  Honoured  Lady  The  Lady  Abney.     L  W." 

Divine  Songs   attempted   in  easy  language  for  the  use   of 


children.    London,  liio.    Sm.  8vo.    With  a  frontispiece  and  plates. 
The  Psalms  of  David,  Imitated  in  the  Language  of  the  New 


Testament,  And  apply'd  to  the  Christian  State  and  Worship.  By  I. 
Watts.  The  Second  Edition.  [Quotations  from  Luke  and  Hebrews.] 
London  :  Printed  for  J.  Clark,  &c.    1719.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — P  10  in  twelves. 

Catechisms :  Or,  Instructions  in  the  Principles  of  the  Chris- 


tian Religion,  and  the   History  of  Scripture,  Composed  for  Children 


WEAKEST— WEBSTER.  1571 

and  Youth,  According  to  their  different  Ages.  ...  By  Isaac  Watts,  .  .  . 
London:  .  .  .  1730.    Sm.  8vo.    Portrait  inserted. 
A,  6  leaves  ;  B — M  in  twelves. 

WEAKEST  GOETH  TO  THE  WALL.  The  Weakest  goeth  to 
the  Wall  As  it  hath  been  sundry  times  plaid  by  the  right  honourable 
Earle  of  Oxenford,  Lord  Great  Chambcrlaine  of  England  his  seruants. 
London,  Printed  by  G.  P.  for  Richard  Ilazvkins,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his 
shop  in  Chancery-Lane,  neere  Serieants  Inne.    1618.    4to. 

A — I  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

The  authorship  of  this  play  is  unknown.  This  is  the  second  edition,  the  first 
having  appeared  in  1600. 

WEAVER,  Thomas.  Plantagenets  Tragicall  Story :  or,  the 
Death  of  King  Edward  the  Fourth :  with  The  unnaturall  Voyage  of 
Richard  the  Third  through  the  Red  Sea  of  his  Nephews  innocent 
bloud  to  his  usurped  Crowne.  Metaphrased  by  T.  W.  Gent.  Prospe- 
rnm  Scelus  virtus  vocatur.  Sen.  London,  Printed  by  M.  F.for  Richard 
Tonilins  at  the  Snn  and  Bible  necr  Pie-corner.    1649.    Sm.  8vo.    R. 

A — I  in  eights,  including  a  portrait  of  the  author  by  W.  Marshall,  with  six  lines 
of  verse  beneath  it,  subscribed  "  J.  S." 

A  Poem  divided  into  two  parts.  The  first  is  dedicated  to  Edward  Benlowes, 
Esq.,  and  has  commendatory  verses  by  J.  C,  S.  N.,and  D.  S.  The  second  part  is 
dedicated  to  Mr.  D.  W.,  and  here  Weaver  mentions  that  the  work  was  ready  two 
years  before,  that  he  had  not  designed  it  for  publication,  but  that  he  was  forced 
into  print  by  the  importunity  of  friends. 

Songs  and  Poems  of  Love  and  Drollery.    By  T.  W.    Printed 

in  the  Year,  1654.    8vo.    R. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — I  5  in  eights. 

Dedicated  "  To  my  most  obliging  Friend  E.  M.  Esquire,"  who  is  informed  that 
the  author  had  no  particular  desire  to  see  these  poems  printed. 

WEBSTER,  John.  The  White  Divel,  or.  The  Tragedy  of  Paolo 
Giordano  Vrsini,  Duke  of  Brachiano,  With  The  Life  and  Death  of 
Vittoria  Corombona  the  famous  Venetian  Curtizan.  Acted  by  the 
Queenes  Maiesties  Seruants.  Written  by  lohn  Webster,  .  .  .  London, 
Printed  by  N.  O.  for  Thomas  Archer,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Sltop 
in  Popes  head  Pallace,  7uer  to  the  Roy  all  Exchange.  161 2.  4to. 
A,  2  leaves  ;  B — M  2  in  fours.     First  edition. 

The  Tragedy  of  the  Dvtchesse  of  Malfy.  As  it  was  Presented 

priuatly,  at  the  Black-Friers ;  and  publiquely  at  the  Globe,  By  the 
Kings  Maiesties  Seruants.  The  perfect  and  exact  Coppy,  with  diuerse 
things  Printed,  that  the  length  of  the  Play  would  not  beare  in  the 
Presentment.  Written  by  John  Webster.  London  :  Printed  iy  Nicholas 


1572  WEBSTER. 

Okes,  for  lohn  Waterson,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  tJie  sigiie  of  tJie  Crowne, 
in  Panics  Chnrcli-yard,  1623.    4to. 

A — N  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.  With  commendatory  verses  by  Thomas  Middle- 
ton,  William  Rowley,  and  John  Ford.  Dedicated  to  Lord  Berkeley  of  Berkeley 
Castle. 

WEBSTER,  John.  The  Deuils  Law-case.  Or,  When  Women  goe 
to  Law,  the  Deuill  is  full  of  Businesse.  A  new  Trage  comedy.  The 
true  and  perfect  Copie  from  the  Originall.  As  it  was  approuedly  well 
Acted  by  her  Maiesties  Seruants.  Written  by  lohn  Webster.  Non  qiiam 
dill,  sed  quant  bene.  London,  Printed  by  A.  M.for  John  Grismand,  and 
are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  Pauls  Alley  at  the  Signe  of  the  Gunne. 
1623.  4to.    BR.  M. 

A — L  in  fours.     Dedicated  to  Sir  Thomas  Finch,  Knight  Baronet. 

Appius    and    Virginia.     A    Tragedy.      By  John    Webster. 

London,  Printed  for  Hnmphrcy  Moseley,  andareto  be  sold  at  tJic  Prince  s 
Armes  in  St.  Paul's  Church-yard,  1659.   4*^°- 

B — I  3  in  fours,  and  the  title-page.  First  edition.  As  many  as  three  title-pages 
were  printed  to  it. 

Two  New  Playes :  viz.    A  Cure  for  a  Cuckold  :  A  Comedy. 

The  Thracian  Wonder:  A  Comical  Historj'.  As  it  hath  been  several 
times  Acted  with  great  Applause.  Written  by  John  Webster  and 
William  Rowley.  Placerc  Cupio.  London  :  Printed  by  Tho.  Johnson, 
and  are  to  be  sold  by  Francis  Kirkman  .  .  .   1661.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — H  in  fours,  for  each  play,  besides  the  general  title. 

In  the  Address  to  the  Reader  before  the  first  play,  Kirkman  mentions  that 
this  was  the  earliest  of  a  series  of  three  plays,  which  he  intended  to  produce  in 
the  course  of  the  term,  the  second  being  the  other  drama  in  the  volume,  and 
the  third,  "  Gammer  Gurton's  Needle."  He  says  "It  was  not  long  since  I  was  only 
a  Book-Reader,  and  not  a  bookseller,  which  Quality  ...  I  have  now  lately  taken 
on  me."  He  further  says  that  he  had  been  a  collector  of  old  plays  for  some 
years,  and  that  he  had  some  700  by  him  ;  and  in  the  preface  to  the  "  Thracian 
Wonder"  he  informs  us  that  he  had  several  MS.  plays  by  worthy  authors  in  his 
possession. 

First  editions  of  both  pieces.  No  other  copy  with  a  general  title-page  is  noticed. 
The  authorship  of  Webster  and  Rowley  has  been  questioned. 

WEBSTER,  John.  The  Displaying  of  supposed  Witchcraft. 
Wherein  is  affirmed  that  there  are  many  sorts  of  Deceivers  and  Im- 
postors. And  Divers  persons  under  a  passive  Delusion  of  Melancholy 
and  Fancy.  But  that  there  is  a  Corporeal  League  made  betwixt  the 
Devil  and  the  Witch,  Or  that  he  sucks  on  the  Witches  body,  has 
Carnal  Copulation,  or  that  Witches  are  turned  into  Cats,  Dogs,  raise 
Tempests,  or  the  like,  is  utterly  denied  and  disproved London, 


WECKHERLIN—WEELKES.  1573 

Printed  by  J.  M.  and  arc  to  be  sold  by  the  Booksellers  in  London.  1677. 
Folio.    L.  P. 

Title  and  imprimatur,  2  leaves  ;  dedication  to  Thomas  Parker,  of  IJraisholmc, 
&c.,  in  the  West  Riding  of  Yorkshire,  2  leaves ;  Preface  and  Contents,  4  leaves  ; 
B — Yy  3  in  fours. 

WECKHERLIN,  G.  R.    Triumf  Newlich  bey  dcr  F.  kindtauf  zu 
Stutgart  gehaltcn.    Beschriben  Durch  G.  Rodolfcn  Wcckherlin.    Stut- 
gart,  Gctruckt  bey  Johan-Wcyrich  Roszliii.    M.DC.XVI.    4to. 
Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — Q  2  in  fours. 

WEELKES,  Thomas.  Madrigals  to  3.  4.  5.  &  6.  voyces.  Made 
and  newly  published  by  Thomas  Weelkes.  At  London  Printed  by 
Thomas  Este.    1597.    6  parts  in  i  vol.   4to.  Y.  M. 

Cantus  Primus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours  ;  Quintus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — C  2  in 
fours  ;  Altus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  2  in  fours  ;  D  2  blank  ;  Cantus  Secundus,  A,  2 
leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours  ;  Sextus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves  ;  B  4  blank  ;  Bassus,  A, 
2  leaves,  and  B — D  in  fours. 

All  the  parts  are  dedicated  to  George  Phillpot,  Esq. 

Madrigals  of  5.  and  6.  parts,  apt  for  the  Viols  and  voices. 

Made  &  newly  published  by  Thomas  Weelkes  of  the  Coledge  at  Win- 
chester, Organist.  At  London  Printed  by  Thomas  Este,  the  assigne  of 
Thomas  Morley.    1600.    6  parts  in  one  vol.   4to.    Y.  M. 

Cantus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours  ;  Alto,  Tenore,  Quinto,  and  Basso  the 
same  ;  Sesto,  A — B  in  fours  (the  signature  B  wrongly  marked  D).  On  C  2  of  the 
other  parts  is  a  second  title,  "  Madrigals  of  6.  parts,"  &c.,  with  separate  dedication 
at  the  back.  In  this  copy  the  sheets  have  been  wrongly  placed  by  the  binder. 
Dedicated  to  Lord  Windsor  and  George  Brooke,  Esq. 

Balletts  and  Madrigals  to  fiue  voyces,  with  one  to  6.  voyces  : 

newly  published  by  Thomas  Weelkes.  In  London  Printed  by  Thomas 
Este,  the  assigne  of  William  Barley.  1608.  S  parts  in  one  vol.  4to. 
Y.  M. 

Cantus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours  ;  Altus  and  Tenor,  the  same  ;  Quintus,  A, 
2  leaves ;  B — E  2  in  fours  ;  E2  blank  ;  Bassus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  right  worshipful  his  Master  Edward  Darcye,  Esquier, 
Groomeof  her  Maiesties  priuie  Chamber." 

This  is  a  distinct  work  from  the  preceding,  not  a  reprint  of  it. 

Cantvs  [Tenor,  Bassus]  Ayeres  or  Phantastick  Spirites  for 


three  voices,  Made  and  newly  published  by  Thomas  Weelkes,  Gentle- 
man of  his  Majesties  Chappell,  Batchelar  of  Musicke,  and  Organest 
of  the  Cathedral  Church  of  Chichester.  London  Printed  by  William 
Barley,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shoppe  in  Gracious  Street.  1 608.  3 
parts  in  one  vol.    4to.    R.  M. 

Each  part  consists  of  A,  2  leaves;  B — E  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  Edward,   Lord  Denny,  Baron  of  Waltham.     This  was  the  last 
work  published  by  Weelkes. 

9  E 


1 574  WEERDT—  WEE  VER. 

"  For  originality  of  ideas  and  construction  in  part  writing  .  .  .  Weelkes  in  my 
opinion  leaves  all  other  composers  of  his  time  far  behind,"  says  Mr.  Oliphant  in 
the  "  Musa  Madrigalesca  ;"  and,  especially  in  relation  to  the  "Ayeres  ;"  he  further 
states,  "  Some  of  them  I  really  think  are  the  cleverest  specimens  of  three-part 
writing  that  are  to  be  met  with." 

The  twenty-sixth  piece  in  the  collection  is  a  Song  for  six  voices,  "  A  remem- 
brance of  my  friend  M.  Thomas  Morley." 

There  is  in  a  satirical  piece  (No.  19)  a  curious  allusion  to  hackney  coaches, 
which,  as  it  is  known,  had  then  been  some  time  already  in  use  :^ 
"  —  for  he  that  doth  the  Cochman  prayse, 
May  safely  use  the  Coch." 
There  is  also  a  song  in  praise  of  Tobacco. 

WEERDT,  Sebald  DE.  Wijdtloopigh  verhael  van  tgene  de  vijf 
Schepen  (die  int  jaer  1598.  tot  Rotterdam  toegherust  werden,  cm  door 
de  Straet  Magellana  haren  handel  te  dryven)  wedervaren  is,  tot  den  7. 
September  1599.  toe,  op  welcken  dagh  Capiteijn  Sebald  de  Weert,  met 
twee  schepen,  door  onweder  vande  Vlote  versteken  werdt  .  .  .  f  Am- 
sterdam, by  Zacharias  Hcijns,  inde  Warmoestraet,  hide  Hooft-diicghden 
[1600].    Oblong  4to.    Plates. 

Reprinted  by  De  Bry,  "  Grands  Voyages,"  vol.  ix.,  pt.  2,  1602.  See  also  Camus, 
"  Mdm.,"  p.  102,  &c.,  and  MuUer,  p.  21,  where  a  full  collation  is  given.  After  D  2 
is  another  title-page,  for  the  treatise  of  Jan  Outghersz,  as  described  by  Muller,  who 
says,  p.  23,  "de  cette  premi&re  Edition  M.  MuUer  n'a  jamais  vu  d'autre  exemplaire 
que  le  sien  propre." 

This  copy  is  in  beautiful  condition  and  entirely  uncut.  It  is  the  identical  one 
described  by  Muller. 

Historisch  Ende  Wijdtloopigh  verhael  van  'tghene  de  de  vijf 

Schepen  &c.  .  .  .  Tot  Amstelredam  by  MicJiiel  Colijn,  Boeck-vercooper, 
zvonende  op't  Water  by  de  Oude-britgge  aen  de  Cooren-marckt  int  Huys- 
boeck.   Anno  1617.    Oblong  4to.    Plates. 

This  is  a  reprint  of  the  first  edition,  but  the  piece  by  Jan  Outghersz  is  omitted. 
The  plates  are  re-engraved  for  this  edition. 

WEEVER,  John.  The  Mirror  of  Martyrs,  or.  The  life  and  death 
of  that  thrice  valiant  Capitaine  and  most  godly  Martyre  Sir  lohn  Old- 
castle  knight  Lord  Cobhani.  Printed  by  V.  S.  for  William  Wood. 
1 60 1.    Sm.  sqr.  8vo.     The  edges  uncut.    O.  M. 

A — F  3  in  eights.     In  verse. 

Weever,  whose  name  is  better  known  as  the  author  of  the  "  Funeral  Monu- 
ments "  than  by  his  poetical  pieces,  says  in  his  dedication  to  his  friend,  William 
Covell,  that  this  work  had  lain  two  years  in  the  corner  of  his  study,  where  he 
kept  his  waste  paper.  There  is  a  second  inscription  (in  verse)  "  To  the  Author's 
most  honored  friend  Richard  Ualton  of  Pilling."  The  address  to  Dalton  is,  like 
the  poem  itself,  in  6-line  stanzas. 

The  present  copy  with  uncut  leaves  was  obtained  at  the  sale  of  the  Wolferston 
collection.  Copies  are  in  the  Bodleian  and  Pcpysian  libraries.  A  fourth,  wanting 
the  title,  was  sold  among  Mr.  Caldecott's  books  in  1833.     No  others  are  known. 


WEEVER—WEIGELIUS.  1575 

WEEVER,  John.  An  Agnvs  Dei.  Printed  by  V.  S.  for  Nicholas 
Lyng.     1606.    A  thumb-book,  measuring  about  i|  in.  in  height. 

This  diminutive  poeticil  volume  contains  a  history  of  Christ  from  the  birth  of 
the  Virgin.     It  collates  in  eights,  A — Q.     The  present  is  the  only  copy  known.     It 
is  in  the  original  vellum  binding  with  a  ribbon  attached,  as  first  published.     The 
dedication  runs  :  "  To  Prince  Henry.     Your  humble  servant.    lo  :  Weever." 
It  shows  that  the  poem  had  been  written  some  years  before  it  was  printed. 
"  Thou  machlesse  issue  of  a  mighty  King, 
To  whose  green  years  &  iudgemct  grave,  I  bring 
These  holy  numbers  of  my  heav'nly  muse, 
Which  my  late  Empresse  daigned  to  peruse  : 
The  like  acceptance  humblie  I  intreate. 
My  Booke  is  litle,  but  my  love  is  great." 

'■  lo:  Weever!' 
On  the  flyleaf  is  the  autograph  of  "Elizabeth  Baynton.  1622." 

WEIDA,  Marcus  DE.  Der  Spiegel  hochlobUcher  Bruderschafft 
dcs  Rosenkrantz  Marie,  der  aller  reinsten  Jungfrawen,  vffbegere,  der 
durchlauchtigen  hochgebornen  Furstin,  vnd  frawen,  frawe  Barbara 
geborn  auss  konigliche  Starn  czu  Poln  Hertzogin  czu  Sachssen. 
Lantgrauin  in  Doringe  vii  Margkgrauin  czu  Meyssen,  czu  Leyptzk 
gemacht,  vnd  gedruckt.  [Colophon.]  Gcdruckt  tzu  Leiptzk,  dnrck 
Mdchior  Letter,  in  der  Hawfstrassze.  Anno  dhi  Tausent,funffhudert, 
funfftzen  in  d' Fasten,  am  Sonabendt  nochdeni  Sontage  Reminiscere.  4to. 
Woodcuts.     BR.  M. 

Folios  i.-cxxxvii.,  including  title,  followed  by  ten  un-numbered  leaves. 

There  are  fifteen  woodcuts  in  this  volume,  including  that  on  the  title.  On  the 
last  appears  the  monogram  H.  S.  as  figured  by  Nagler,  Monogrammisten,  No.  1449. 
This  book  appears  to  have  been  unknown  to  him,  though  he  quotes  two  other  works 
printed  at  Leipsic  about  the  same  period,  with  woodcuts  in  which  the  monogram 
occurs.  He  goes  carefully  through  the  probable  claimants  to  the  monogram,  but 
is  only  able  to  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  name  of  the  artist  is  unknown. 

WEIGELIUS,  Christoph.  Passio  Domini  nostri  Jesu  Christi ; 
neo-cslatis  iconibus  expressa.    Angspurg.  1693.    4to.    100  Plates. 

Ethica  Naturalis  seu  Documenta  Moralia    e  Variis  rerum 

Naturalium  proprietatib^  Virtutum,  Vitiorumqi  symbolicis  imaginibus 
collecta.  NorinibcrgcB.    \s.  a.']    4to.    R.  M. 

Engraved  title,  and  100  plates,  with  letterpress  beneath  each. 

WEIGELIUS,  Johannes.  Habitus  pn-ecipuorum  populorum  tam 
Virorum,  quam  Fceminarum,  olim  singulari  Johannis  Weigclii  Pro- 
plastis  Norimbergensis  arte  depicti  &  excusi,  nunc  vero  debita  dili- 
gentia  denuo  recusi.  Zn  Ulm  In  Verlegnng  Johann  Gorlins  Bitch- 
hdndlers,  .  .  .  1639.    FoHo.    R.  M. 


1576  WEIG  EL— WELSHMAN. 

Title  and  preface,  2  leaves  :  219  full-length  figures  of  the  costumes  of  various 
nations,  engraved  on  wood,  and  i  leaf  of  St.  John  Baptist  preaching  in  the  Wilder- 
ness. 

WEIGEL,  T.  O.  iind  D^  A.  Zestermann,  Die  Anfange  dcr 
Druckerkunst  in  Bild  und  Schrifitt.  An  dcr  friihestcn  Erzeugnissen 
in  der  Weigcl'schcn  Sammlung  erliiutert.  Leipzig,  1866.  2  vols. 
Folio.    Plates. 

WELBY,  Henry.  The  Phoenix  of  these  late  times  :  Or  the  life 
of  Mr.  Henry  Welby,  Esq.  who  lived  at  his  house  in  Grub-street  forty 
foure  yeares,  and  in  that  space  was  never  scene  by  any.  Aged  84. 
Shewing  the  first  occasion,  and  the  reasons  thereof  Whose  Portraiture 
you  may  behold,  as  it  was  taken  at  his  death.  With  Epitaphs  and 
Elegies  of  the  late  deceased  Gentleman,  who  lyeth  buried  in  S.  Giles 
Church  neere  Criple  gate,  London.  London  :  Printed  by  N.  Okes,  and 
are  to  be  sold  by  Richard  Clottcrbuck,  at  his  shop  in  little  Brittaine  at 
the  signc  of  the  golden  ball.  lO^y.  4to.  The  edges  tincut. 
A — F  in  fours  ;  F  4  blank,  besides  the  title-page  and  portrait  by  W.  Marshall. 

WELDON,  Sir  Anthony.  The  Court  and  Character  of  King 
James.  Whereunto  is  now  added  the  Court  of  King  Charles :  Con- 
tinued Unto  the  beginning  of  these  Unhappy  Times.  With  some 
Observations  upon  Him  instead  of  a  Character.  Collected  and  Per- 
fected by  Sir  A.  W.  Qui  nescit  dissivudare,  nescit  regnare.  Published 
by  Authority.  Printed  at  London  by  R.  L.  and  are  to  be  sold  by  jf. 
Collins  in  Little  Brittaine,  165 1.  Sm.  8vo.  Portrait. 
A,  3  leaves  ;  B — Q  4  in  eights. 

WELSHMAN.  The  Welshmans  Answer  to  that  False  Petition 
Which  was  printed  of  her  Reputation,  and  Protestation  made  in  her 
Vindication  of  her  defamed  Reputation.  Written  by  me,  Shon  op 
Shones,  by  the  consent  of  her  Cosins  of  Great  qualitie  ;  William 
Powell,  Shonny  Morgan,  and  her  Cosin  Cadwalladore,  and  her  Cosin 
Criffen,  and  her  Cosin  Shenkin.  Cots  plutter  a  nailes,  if  her  tid  put 
know  how  tid  so  apuse  us,  her  would  have  them  py  their  long  tusks, 
and  pumble  her  nose  soundly.  London.  Printed  for  T.  Reinor.  1641. 
4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  Welchmans  Protestation,  Concerning  the  corruptions  of 

the.se  times.  With  her  last  Will  and  Testament,  writ  and  pupplished 
with  her  own  hand  fifteen  tayes  after  her  own  teath.  With  a  Song 
her  was  never  apide  in  awle  her  life,  pccause  her  was  Sheare  her 
Country.    Printed,  1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 


WELSHMAN— WEN  LOCK.  1577 

WELSHMAN.  The  Welchmans  last  Petition  and  Protestation  : 
desiring  that  spccd}^  aide  might  bee  sent  her  against  her  liomc-brcd 
enemies,  as  her  shall  declare  and  shew  to  be  in  her  following  Petition. 
Whereunto  is  added  the  Protestation  of  Thomas  ap  Shinkin,  ap  Mor- 
gan, &c.  with  many  new  additions.  Printed  ixt  London  for  F.  Couls, 
T.  Bates,  I.  W rig-fit,  T.  Banks.  1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves,  with  a  curious  woodcut  on  ihe  title. 

The  Welch-Mans  Warning-Piece.    As  it  was  delivered  in  a 


Sermon  in  Shropshire  at  the  Assembly  when  the  Resolution  was 
agreed  upon.  And  Now  published  for  the  cood  of  all  her  Country-men 
in  these  parts.     By  Shon  ap  Morgan.     In  the  Anti-Prelatian  Yeer. 

1 642 London  :  Printed  for  Robert  Wood  and  Henry  Marsh. 

1642.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  Welsh-Mans  new  Almanack  and  Prognostication  For  this 


present  yeare,  1643.  Likewise,  Giving  notice  to  all  good  peoples  to 
beware  of  the  danger  that  will  befall  them  ;  if  they  take  not  heed  in 
good  time  :  Wherein  if  there  be  found  any  one  lye,  her  will  be  con- 
tent to  lose  all  her  credite,  and  also  her  other  Legge  and  Arme,  as 
her  did  at  Kenton  Battailes.  Withall,  Her  doe  forbid  to  have  any  red 
letters  to  be  printed  in  her  Almanacke,  because  her  do  not  love  the 
red  colour  never  since  her  lost  so  much  of  her  blood  at  that  time,  as 
her  did  at  Edge-hil.    London  Printed  1643.    4to.    Black  letter. 

Four  leaves. 

The  Valiant  Welshman,  Or,  The  true  Chronicle  History  of 


the  Life  and  Valiant  Deeds  of  Caradoc  the  Great,  King  of  Cambria, 
now  called  Wales.  As  it  hath  been  sundry  times  Acted  by  the  Prince 
of  Wales  his  servants.  Written  by  R.  A.  Gent.  London,  Printed  for 
William  Gilbertson,  at  the  Bible  luiilwut  Neivgate.   1663.    4to. 

With  a  woodcut  frontispiece. 

A — I  in  fours,  including  the  frontispiece.  This  drama  was  originally  printed  in 
161 5.  The  initials  on  the  title  have  never  been  identified,  though  they  have  usually 
been  attributed  to  Robert  Armin. 

The    Welch   Man's    Catechism :     or,    Taffy's    Instructions. 


London,  Printed  in  the  Year.  1703.    8vo. 

Four  leaves,  with  a  satirical  woodcut  of  a  Welshman  on  the  title. 
From  Mr.  G.  Daniel's  collection. 

WENLOCK,  John.  To  the  most  Illustrious,  High  and  Mighty 
Majesty  of  Charles  the  II  :  .  .  .  .  The  Humble  Declaration  of  John 
Wenlock  of  Langham,  in  the  County  of  Essex    Esquire,   an  Vtter 


1578  WENT  WORTH— WEST. 

Barrister  of  near  Forty  years  continuance,  in  that  Honourable  Society 
of  Lincolns-Inne.  Being  first  a  Supplicatory  Preface  and  Discourse  to 
his  Majesty  and  then  humbly  shewing  the  great  and  dangerous 
Troubles  and  intollerable  Oppressions  of  Himself  and  His  Family,  and 
the  true  occasion  thereof,  in  the  wofull  Times  of  these  late  most  un- 
happy Distractions Hereunto  are  annexed  certain  Poems,  and 

other  Treatises,  composed  and  written  by  the  Author  upon  several 
Occasions,  concerning  the  late  most  horrid  and  distracted  Times,  and 
never  before  published.  [Quotations.]  Loudon,  Printed  by  T.  Childe 
and  L.  Parry,  for  the  Ant/ior.  .  .  .   1662.  4to. 

A — V  in  fours,  besides  the  title-page  and  a  leaf  before  it  with  verses.  Dedicated 
to  Charles  II. 

In  the  leaf  which  precedes  the  title,  Wenlock  says  that  he  had  intended  to 
prefix  his  portrait  and  coat  of  arms,  but  that  the  expense  prevented  him  from  doing 
so.  He  prints,  however,  the  verses  which  he  had  purposed  to  place  beneath  the 
engraving. 

WENTWORTH,  Peter.  A  Pithie  Exhortation  to  her  Maiestie 
for  establishing  her  svccessor  to  the  crowne.  Wherevnto  is  added  a 
discovrse  containing  the  Authors  opinion  of  the  true  and  lavvfull  suc- 
cessor to  her  Maiestie.  Both  compiled  by  Peter  Wentworth  Esquire. 
Pnidens  Princcpshceredem  nominando,&-c.    Imprinted,  1598.    Sm.  Svo. 

A,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  B — P  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  and  the  sixth  leaf  of 
sig.  I  blank. 

WERMYLIERUS,  Otho.  A  Spiritual  and  most  precious  perle, 
teachynge  all  men  to  loue  &  imbrace  y  crosse,  as  a  most  swete  and 
necessarye  thinge  vnto  the  soule  :  what  comfort  is  to  be  take  thereof : 
where  and  howe  bothe  consolacion  and  aide  in  al  maner  of  affiycions 
is  to  bee  sought :  and  agayne,  howe  all  men  should  behaue  themselves 
therin,  accordyng  to  the  word  of  god.  Math.  10.  He  that  takcth  not 
his  crosse  and  folozvcth  inc,  is  not  mete  for  me.  \^No  place,  printer's 
name,  or  date.]  Sm.  sqr.  Svo.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

Title,  and  preface  by  the  Duke  of  Somerset,  8  leaves  ;  A — R  in  eights. 

This  is  one  of  the  books  usually  attributed  to  the  press  of  Hugh  Singleton. 

WESLEY,  Samuel.  Maggots :  or,  Poems  on  Several  Subjects, 
Never  before  Handled.  By  a  Schollar.  Lotidon,  Printed  for  John 
Diinton,  at  the  Sign  of  the  Black  Raven,  at  the  Corner  of  Princes 
Street,  near  tlie  Royal  Exchange.    1685.    Sm.  Svo.   Portrait. 

A — H  1 1  in  twelves,  including  the  portrait  of  Wesley,  with  six  lines  of  verse 
beneath  it. 

WEST,  Richard.  The  Court  of  Conscience  Or  Dick  Whippers 
Sessions.  With  the  order  of  his  arraigning  and  punishing  of  many 
notorious,     dissembling,    wicked,   and    vitious    liuers    in    this    age. 


WE  S  T  INDIA  CO  MP  A  NY.  1 579 

[Quotation  from  Matth.  xxv.,  24,  41.]  Imprinted  at  London  by  G.  Eld 
for  lolin  Wright,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  adioyning  to  Christ 
Church  gate.  1607.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours.     In  stanzas  of  six  lines. 

Dedicated  by  the  author  to  his  loving  friend  and  master,  Mr.  William  Durdant, 
and  his  very  friend  Master  Francis  Moore.  The  names  of  the  Jury  selected  to  try 
and  condemn  offenders  are  Good  Counsel,  Upright  Judge,  &c.  other  allegorical 
characters. 

The  present  copy  has  belonged  to  Mr.  Park,  Mr.  Hill,  Mr.  Bindley,  Mr.  Jolley, 
and  Mr.  Corser,  and  is  the  same  as  that  described  in  the  "  Bibliotheca  Anglo- 
Poetica." 

See  the  volume  revievi^ed  by  Mr.  Collier  in  his  "  Bibl.  Cat.,"  ii.,  502-3. 

WEST  INDIA  COMPANY.  Conditien,  Die  door  de  Hceren 
Bvrgermeesteren  der  Stadt  Amstelrcdam,  volgens  't  gemaeclvte 
Accoordt  met  de  West-Indische  Compagnie,  ende  d'Approbatie  van 
hare  Hog.  Mog.  de  Heeren  Statcn  Generael  der  Vereenighde  Neder- 
landen,  daer  op  gevolght,  gcpresenteert  werden  aen  alle  de  gene,  die 
als  Coloniers  na  Nieuw-Nederlandt  willen  vertrecken,  &c.  (Amster- 
dam. .  .  .  1656.    4to. 

Eight  leaves. 

West  India  Company.    Aenwysinge :    Datmen  vande  Oost 

en  West-Indische  Compagnien/  een  Compangie  dient  te  maken.  Mits- 

gaders  Twinticli  Consideratien  op  de  Trafyquc,  Zeevaerten  Commertie 

deser  Landen  .  .  .  .  In's  Gravcn-Haghc,  Gcdriickt  by  Jan  Veeli  .... 

1644.    4to.    TJie  edges  uncut. 

A — E  2  in  fours. 

Bedenkinge  Over  d'Anvvoordt  der  Hceren  Bewinthebbers  van 

de  Oost-Indische  Compagnie  :  Aen  d'Edele  Gr:  Mog:  Heeren  Statcn 
van  HoUandt  en  West-Vrieslant,  in  twee  schriften,  overgelevert,  be- 
langhende  de  Combinatie  der  twee  Compagnien /«  V  Graven- 
Habile,  By  Jan  Vceli  .  .  .  Anno  1644.   4to.     The  edges  uncut. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — D  in  fours. 

Consideratien  ende  Redenen  der  E.  Heeren  Bewind-hebberen 


vande  Geoctroijeerde  West-Indische  Compagnie    inde   vergaderinge 

van  de  Ed.  Hoog-Moghende  Heren  Staten  Generael  deser  Vereenigde 

Vrije  Nederlanden  overgheleverdt,  nopende  de  tcghenwoordighe  de- 

liberatie  over  den  Treves   met  den    Konink    van   Hispangjen  .... 

Gliedruckt  te  Hacrlem,  by  Adrian  Rooman  ....  1629.    4to.    The  edges 

uncut. 

A — D  in  fours. 

Consideratie/  Overgelevert  by  de    Heeren  Bewinthebberen 


van  de  Oost-Indischc  Compagnie.     Aen  de  Edele  Groot-Mogende 


i58o  WEST  INDIA  COMPANY. 

Heeren  Statcn  van  Hollant  endeWest-Vrieslant/ Waeromme  hetvoor 

de  selve  Compagnie  onmogelick  cnde  ondienstigh  is,  om  met  de  West- 

Indische  Compagnie  te  treden  in   handelinge,   om   beyde  onder  cen 

Octroy  ende  Societeytgebracht  te  worden.  In  V  Graven-Hage,  By  Jan 

Fransenl  1644.    4'^°. 

Four  leaves. 

WEST  INDIA  COMPANY.  Deductie,  Waer  by  onpartijde- 
lijck  over-wogen  ende  bewesen  wort,  wat  het  beste  voor  de  Com- 
pagnie van  West-Indien  zy  :  Den  Handel  te  sluyten  of  open  te  laten. 
In  's  Gravcti-Hage  Gedruckt  by  Isaac  Bvrchoorn \0.  7?\    4to. 

The  edges  U7ic2it. 

A — D  in  fours. 

Examen  van  de  Valsche  Resolutie  vande   Heeren  Burge- 


meestcrs  cnde  Radentot  Amsterdam.  Op'tstuck  vande  West-Indische 
Compagnie.  Tot  Amsterdam,  By  Abraliavi  de  Brityn  by  de  Regclicrs- 
poort.    1649.    4to.    The  edges  uncut. 

A — E  2  in  fours. 

Fin  de  la  Guerre.    Dialogus,  of  t'Samen-sprekinge,  P.  Scipio 


Africanus  raedt  den  Romeynen  datmcn  naer  African!  most  trecken 
om  Carthago  te  bekrygen  ende  bestryden  so  verre  men  Hannibal 
uyt  Italien  wilde  jagen.  2.  O.  Fabius  Maximus  raed  datme  niet  naer 
Carthago  trecken  most,  maer  datmen   Hannibal  in   Italien  met  alle 

macht   most    aen  vallcn  ende  daer    uyt   slaen f Amsterdam, 

Ghednukt  by  Paidus  Aertss.  van  Ravcstcyn.    \0.  y.]    4to. 

A — F  2  in  fours. 

Octroy,  By  de  Hooghe  Mogende  Heeren  Staten  Generael, 


verleent  aende  West-Indische  Compagnie,  in  date  den  derden  Junii 
162 1.  Mette  Ampliatien  van  dien,  Ende  Het  accoort  tusschen  de 
Bewint-hebberen  ende  Hooft-participanten  vande  selve  Compaignie, 
met  approbatie  vande  Hoog:  ende  Mog:  Heeren  Staten  Generael 
ghemaeckt.  In  's  Gravcn-haagc,  By  de  Wcduwe,  en  Ersghenamen  van 
wijlen  Hillebrant  Jacobssz  van  Vouw Anno  1623.    4to.     Tlie 


edges  uncut. 


A — D  in  fours. 


Ooghcn-salve  Tot  verlichtinghe,  van  alle  Participanten,  so 

van  de  Oost,  Ende  West-Indische  Compaignien,  Mitsgaders  Ver- 
scheyden  notabele  Consideratien,  aengaendc  de  Vereeninghe  van  de 
Oost-endc-West-Indische  Compaignien,  met  malkanderen.  In  's  Gra- 
vcnliaglie.   By  Lieven  de  Lange,  in  April.  An.  1644.   4to. 

A — E  2  in  fours. 

Trou-hcrtighe  ondcrrichtinge,  Aen  alle  hooft  Participanten, 


en  Licf-hcbbers    vande   Gc-octroyecrde   West-Indische    Compagnie. 


WEST  INDIA    COMPANY— WEST  INDIES.      1581 

Nopende  Het  open  stellen  vanden  handel  op  de  Cust  van  Africa, 

namentlijck,  S'.  Thomd,  Guinea,  Angola,  S'  Paulo  de  Loando,  mitsga- 

dcrs  de  Marignian,  Nicu  Nedcrlant  ende  West  Indien.    Door  ecn  trou 

Licf-hebber,  V.   VV.   C.    Ghcdrnckt  iiit  Jaer  1643.     4to.     The  edges 

uncut. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

WEST  INDIA  COMPANY.  Twee  dedvctien.  Aen-gaende  dc 
Verecninge  van  d'Oost  ende  West-Indische  Compagnien,  aen  de  Ed. 
Groot  Mog.  Heeren  Staten  van  Hollandt  ende  West-Vrieslandt,  vande 
West-Indische   Compagnie,  over-gelevert.     In  's  Graven-Haage,  By 

Jan  Vccly, .  .  .  Anno  1644.    4to.    The  edges  luiciit. 

A — C  3  in  fours. 

Uyt-vaert  vande  West-Indische  Compagnie.    Met  cen  Pro- 


positie  ende  Vertooninghe,  Ghedaen  door  een  seker  Heere,  aenden 

Coninck  van  Castih"en,  teghens  de  West-Indische  Compagnie 

Gedrvckt  Voor  den  Avthevr.    1645.    4to. 

A — C  ii  in  fours,  besides  the  title. 

West-Indische  Compagnie.    Reglement  byde  West-Indische 


Compagnie,  terVergadcringe  vande  Negentiene,  met  approbatie  vande 

Ho:  Mo:  Herren  Staten  Generael,  over  het  openstellen  vanden  handel 

op  Brasil  provisioneel  ghearresteert.  In  V  Graven-Hage,  Byde  Weduwe, 

end  Ersghcnamen  van  wijlen  Hillcbrandt  Jacobssz  van  Womu 

Anno  1638.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

West  Insdisch  discours  ;  Verhandelende  De  West  Indische 


Saecken.  Hoe  die  weder  verbetert  mogen  worden,  ten  besten  der 
Gemeente,  en't  seeckerst  voor  de  Compagnie.  Generalijck  ontworpen 
bymaniere  van  Samen-spraeck  tusschen  een  Middelburger  en  Haege- 
naer.    Gedruckl  in  V  Jaer  1653.    4to. 

A — B  in  fours. 

WEST  INDIES.  Cort  en  bondigh  verhael  van  de  gelegentheydt 
ende 't  veroveren  der  Steden  S'  Francisco  de  Campetie,  ende  Trochille, 
beyden  ghelegen  in  West-Indien.  Briefve  &  naifve  relation  de  la 
situation  &  prinse  des  villes  S.  Francisco  de  Campeche  &  Truxillo  es 
Indes  Occidentales.  f  Amsterdam,  By  Claes  Jansz  Visscher,wooncnde 
inde  Kalvcr-straet.    1633.    A  Broadside. 

In  two  sheets,  accompanied  by  a  copper-plate  engraving  also  printed  in  two 
sheets,  "  Jacobus  Dasniets  delineavit,"  "  C.  J.  Visscher  Fecit." 

Kort  Berattelse  om  Wast  Indien  eller  America    Som   elliest 

kallas  Nya  Werlden.    Anno  MDCLXXV.   4to. 

A — F  ii  in  fours. 
9  F 


1 582  WE S  TMINS  TER—  WHA  TELE  Y. 

WESTMINSTER  QUIBBLES  IN  VERSE  :  Being  a  Mock  to 

the  Crab   of  the  Wood,  and    to  that  Tune :     Or,   A  Miscellany  of 

Quibling    Catches,  Joques   and    Merriments.     London,   Printed  for 

William  Cadman,  at  the  Pope's  Head  in  the  Loiver  Walk  of  the  New 

Exchange.    1672.    8vo. 

A — I  7  in  eights. 

From  the  collections  of  Isaac  Reed,  Mr.  Heber,  and  Mr.  George  Smith. 

WESTMORELAND,  Mildmay  Fane,  eighth  Earl  of  Otia 
Sacra  Optima  Fides  Deus  nobis  licee  Otia  fecit.  Virg.  London  Printed 
by  Richard  Cotes.    1 648.    4to. 

A — Y  in  fours,  besides  two  folding  leaves  between  pp.  70-1  and  i  lo-i  i.  In  two 
Parts,  with  an  engraved  title  to  each,  and  other  plates  and  cuts  on  the  letter-press. 

Privately  printed  for  the  author.  This  copy  does  not  contain  the  two  extra  leaves 
which  were  in  Allen's  copy,  and  which  were  taken  out  of  it  to  be  inserted  in  Dr. 
Bhss's.  The  only  other  copy  known  to  possess  those  leaves  was  Mr.  J.  Dunn 
Gardner's,  which  was  sold  by  auction  in  1854. 

WESTWARD  FOR  SMELTS.  Or,  The  Water-man's  Fare  of 
mad-merry  Western  wenches,  whose  tongues,  albeit  like  Bell-clappers, 
they  neuer  leaue  Ringing,  yet  their  Tales  are  sweet,  and  will  much 
content  you.  Written  by  Kinde  Kit  of  Kingstone.  London,  Printed 
for  John  Trimdle,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Barbican,  at  the  signe 
of  tlie  No-boby,  1620.   4to.   Black  letter. 

A — F2  in  fours.     In  prose  and  verse.     With  a  large  cut  on  the  title. 

From  the  Roxburghe,  Heber,  and  Daniel  collections.  One  of  the  tales  is  similar 
to  that  on  which  Shakespeare's  "  Cymbeline  "  was  founded.  It  is  reprinted  in  Collier's 
"  Shakespeare's  Library,"  and  the  tract  is  reproduced  entire  in  the  Percy  Society's 
Series.     According  to  Mr.  Daniel,  only  one  other  copy  is  known. 

W.[ETHAM,]  R.  Annotations  on  the  New  Testament  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  which  the  literal  sense  is  explained  according  to  the  Exposi- 
tions of  the  ancient  Fathers [Dozuay.]     With  Permission  and 

Approbations.   [1730.]   2  vols.  8vo. 

WHALE  FISHERY.  De  Seldsaame  en  noit  gehoorde  Wal-vis- 
vangst,  Voorgevallen  bij  St.  Anna-Land  in  't  jaar  1682.  den  7.  October. 
Midsgaders,  Een   Pertinente  Beschrijvinge,  Van  de  geheele  Groen- 

landse-vaart.     Verhandeld    in    Prose,    en    Versen Door 

P  :  ?  :  V  :  S.     Tot  Leiden  Jnt  Jaar  1684.    4to.    Plates.    G.  M. 

A — C  2  in  fours  ;  then  6  leaves  not  paged,  but  marked  No.  2 — No.  7  ;  D  2 — 
D  4  E,  4  leaves  ;  F,  3  leaves  ;  G,  2  leaves  ;  H,  4  leaves  ;  I,  3  leaves  ;  N otitic  van 
de  Schepen Gedestineert  uit  dese  Landen  naar  Groen-Land  In 't  Jaar  1683,  5  leaves  ; 
6  plates. 

WHATELEY,  William.  A  Bride  Bvsh.  Or,  a  direction  for 
Married  Persons.    Plainely  describing   the   duties  common   to  both. 


WHEELER— WHETSTONE.  1583 

and    peculiar    to    each    of  them.  .  ,  .   Compiled    and    published    by 
William  Whateley,  Minister  and  Preacher  of  Gods  Word,  in  Banbury 
in  Oxford-shiere.    [Quotation  from  Hebr.  xiii.  4.]    London,  Printed  by 
Bernard  A  hop  for  Beniamin  Fisher.  .  .  .   1623.    4to.    R. 
A — Ff  3  in  fours,  and  the  title. 

WHEELER,  John.  A  Treatise  of  Commerce,  wherin  are  shewed 
the  commodies  arising  by  a  wel  ordered,  and  rvled  Trade,  Such  as  that 
of  the  Societie  of  Merchantcs  Adventurers  is  proved  to  bee,  written 
principallie  for  the  better  information  of  those  who  doubt  of  the  Neces- 
sariencs  of  the  said  Societie  in  the  State  of  the  Realme  of  England, 
By  John  Wheeler,  Secretarie  to  the  said  Societie.  Midddbvrgli,  By 
Richard  Schilders,  Printer  to  the  States  of  Z eland.  1601.  4to. 
A — Aa  I  in  fours,  the  first  leaf  blank. 

WHEELER,  William.  A  Spiritual  Portion  of  Heavenly  Treasure, 
Bequeathed  By  Mr.  William  Wheeler,  Late  Minister  of  the  Gospel, 
and  Pastor  of  a  Church  of  Christ  at  Cranficld  in  Bedfordshire :  As 
his  Last  Legacy  to  his  Wife  and  Children.  London :  Printed  in  the 
year  1670.    8vo. 

A — I  in  fours.     In  verse. 

On  C  2  the  second  portion  of  the  tract,  the  writer's  Legacy  to  his  Children,  opens 
with  a  separate  title.  No  other  copy  of  this  volume  appears  to  have  occurred.  It 
is  not  in  the  British  Museum.     From  Dr.  Bliss's  collection. 

WHELER,  George.  A  Journey  into  Greece,  in  Company  of  Dr. 
Spon  of  Lyons.  In  Six  Books.  .  .  .  With  Variety  of  Sculptures. 
Loudon.  .  .  .  MDCLXXXn.    Folio.    Large  paper. 

WHETHER  Christian  faith  may  be  kepte  secret  in  the  heart, 
Without  confession  thereof  openly  to  the  Worlde  as  occasion  shal 
serue.  Also  what  hurt  commeth  by  the  that  hath  receiued  the  Gos- 
pell,  to  be  preset  at  Masse  vnto  the  simple  and  vnlearned.  [Quota- 
tions from  Kings,  Matthew,  and  Luke.]  From  Roane.  Anno.M.D.Liii. 
the.  Hi.  of  October.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

Eight  leaves. 

This  rare  tract  was  evidently  printed  at  the  same  press  as  the  Admonition  to 
the  Bishops  of  Winchester,  b'c.  dated  two  days  earlier,  and  was  probably  from  the 
same  pen. 

WHETSTONE,  George.  An  Heptameron  of  Ciuill  Discourses. 
Containing  :  The  Christmasse  Exercise  of  sundrie  well  Courted  Gentle- 
men and  Gentlewomen.  In  whose  bchauiours,  the  better  sort,  may  see, 
a  represetation  of  their  own  Vertues :  And  the  Inferiour,  may  learne 
such  Rules  of  Ciuil  Gouernmet,  as  wil  rase  out  the  Blemish  of  their 


1584  WHETSTONE. 

basenesse  :  Wherin  is  Renowned,  the  Vertues,  of  a  most  Honourable 
and  braue  mynded  Gentleman.  And  herein,  also,  [as  it  were  in  a 
Mirrour]  the  Vnmaried  may  see  the  Defectes  whiche  Eclipse  the 
Glorie  of  Mariage  :  And  the  wel  Maried,  as  in  a  Table  of  Housholde 
Lawes,  may  cull  out  needcfull  Preceptes  to  establysh  their  good 
Fortune.  A  Worke,  intcrcoursed  with  Ciuyll  Pleasure,  to  reaue  te- 
diousnesse  from  the  Reader  :  and  garnished  with  Morall  Noates  to 
make  it  profitable,  to  the  Regarder.  The  Reporte,  of  George  Whet- 
stone. Gent.  Formce,  nulla  fides.  At  London.  Printed  by  Richard 
lones,  at  the  Si^/ie  of  the  Rose  and  the  Crowne,  neare  Holburne  Bridge, 
2,.  Feb.  is^2.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  IT,  2  leaves  ;  B — Z  in  fours.     In  prose  and  verse. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Christopher  Hatton.  This  work  was  reissued  in  1593  under  a 
different  title  :  "  Aurelia.     The  Paragon  of  Pleasure,"  &c. 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  J.  Dunn  Gardner  and  Sir  W.  Tite. 

"We  are  sent  to  Cinthio  for  the  Plot  of '  Measure  for  Measure,'  and  Shake- 
speare's judgement  hath  been  attacked  for  some  deviations  from  him  in  the  conduct 
of  it:  when  probably  all  he  knew  of  the  matter  was  from  Madam  Isabella  in  the 
'  Heptameron '  of  Whetstone." — Farmer  on  Shakespeare. 

Mr.  Hazlitt  states  that  there  was  another  issue  of  this  work,  also  dated  Feb.  3rd, 
1582,  "with  a  very  different  title,"  but  the  difference  appears  to  be  made  only  by 
omitting  a  portion  of  the  text  of  the  title  in  each  of  the  versions  he  gives  of  it. 

WHETSTONE,  George.  The  Honorable  Repvtation  of  a  Soul- 
dier.  With  a  Morall  Report,  of  the  Vertues,  Offices,  and  (by  abuse) 
the  Disgrace  of  his  profession.  Drawne  out  of  the  lines,  documents, 
and  disciplines,  of  the  most  renowned  Romaine,  Grecian,  and  other 
famous  Martialistes.  By  George  Whetstone,  Gent.  Alalgre  de  Fortune.' 
Imprinted  at  London,  by  Richard  lones  :  divelling  neere  vnto  Holburne 
Bridge.   1585.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — F  2  in  fours.  Dedicated  "  To  the  most  worthy  Gent.  Sir  William  Russell, 
Knight."  The  Epistle  dedicatorie,  which  is  in  prose,  is  followed  by  five  stanzas  of 
six  lines  directed  "  To  the  Right  Valiant  Gentlemen  &  Souldiers,  that  are,  or  shall 
be  Anned  vnder  the  Ensigne  of  Sainct  George." 

We  learn  from  the  Epistle,  that  "the  English  Mirror,"  not  printed  till  1586, 
was  already  written,  "But  because,  the  booke  is  of  some  volume,"  says  Whetstone, 
"  I  cannot  haue  it  speedily  printed  :  and  for  that  occasio  now  (at  this  present) 
maketh  passage  for  this  Subiect,  being  a  member  or  small  parcell  of  the  fore- 
recited  booke."  He  tells  us,  a  little  farther  on,  a  story  w-hich  was  intended  by 
him  to  illustrate  the  arrogance  of  the  Spaniards  at  that  time — eight  years  before 
the  Armada.  He  says  that  being  in  the  company  of  a  Gentleman  of  Picardy,  a 
Monsieur  Dobart,  in  a  garrison  town  in  the  Duchy  of  Milan,  with  another  English- 
man, in  the  year  1580,  a  Spaniard  came  in  when  Dobart  asked  him  what  might 
be  the  cause  that  the  King  of  Spain  had  raised  so  great  an  army.  "Ah  Sir," 
returned  the  other,  "  the  time  nowe  draweth  neare,  that  we  shall  ha\e  the  spoile  of 
rich  England,  that  we  shall  embrace  their  fairc  wiues,  and  make  hauocke  of  their 
log  gathered  riches."  The  story  goes  on  to  relate  how  the  Spaniard,  being  challenged 
to  fight,  disappeared  before  morning. 


WHETSTONE.  1585 

WHETSTONE,  George.  A  Mirror  for  Magcstratcs  of  Cyties  Re- 
presenting the  Ordinaiinces,  Policies,  and  Diligence,  of  the  Noble  Em- 
peroLir,  Alexander  (surnamcd  Severvs)  to  suppresse  and  chastise  the 
notorious  Vices  nourished  in  Rome,  by  the  superfluous  number  of 
Dicing-houses,  Tauerns  and  Common  Stewes,  Suffred  and  cheerished 
by  his  bcastlye  Predecessour,  Hclyogablvs.  With  sundrie  graue  Ora- 
tions, by  the  said  noble  Emperor,  concerning  Reformation.  And 
herevnto  is  added,  A  Touchstone  for  the  Time  Containyng  :  many 
pcrillous  Mischiefes,  bred  in  the  Bowels  of  the  Citie  of  London  :  By 
the  Infection  of  some  of  thease  Sanctuaries  of  Iniquitie.  By  George 
Whetstones  Gent.  Virtutc,  noii  vi.  Printed  at  London,  by  Richard  lones. 
it,?,^.  Authorised a}id alloived.   4to    Black  letter. 

Forty-one  leaves. 

The   English   Myrror.    A  Regard  Wherein  al  estates  may 


behold  the  Conquests  of  Enuy  :  Containing  ruine  of  common  weales, 
murther  of  Princes,  causes  of  heresies,  and  in  all  ages,  spoile  of  deuine 
and  humane  blessings,  vnto  which  is  adioyned,  Enuy  conquered  by 
vertues.  Publishing  the  peaceable  victories  obtained  by  the  Oucenes 
most  excellent  Maiesty,  against  this  mortall  enimie  of  publike  peace 
and  prosperitie,  and  lastly,  A  Fortris  against  Enuy.  Builded  vpon 
the  counsels  of  sacred  Scripture,  Lawes  of  sage  Philosophers,  and 
pollicies  of  well  gouerned  common  weales  :  wherein  euery  estate 
may  see  the  dignities,  the  true  office  and  cause  of  disgrace  of  his 
vocation.  A  worke  safely,  and  necessarie  to  be  read  of  euery  good 
subiect.  By  George  Whetstone  Gent.  Malgre.  Seene  and  allowed. 
At  London.  Printed  by  I.  Windet  for  G.  Seton,  and  are  to  be  sold  at 
his  Shop  vnder  Aldersgate.    1586.    4to.    Black  letter,    o.  M. 

II,  4 leaves;  A — P  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  on  whose  name  there  is  an  acrostic  on  the  back 
of  the  title.  The  work  is  divided  into  three  Books,  and  is  in  prose,  but  there  are  a 
few  pieces  of  verse  interspersed. 

This,  as  well  as  some  other  of  Whetstone's  publications,  is  reviewed  at  length 
by  Mr.  Collier  in  his  "  Bibliographical  Catalogue." 

The    Censure   of  a  loyall    Subiect :   Vpon  certaine   noted 


Speach  and  behauiours  of  those  fourteene  notable  Traitors,  at  the 
place  of  their  executions,  the  xx.  and  xxi.  of  September  last  past. 
Wherein  is  handled  matter  of  necessarye  instruction  for  all  dutifull 
Subiectes  :  especially,  the  multitude  of  ignorant  people.  Feare  God  ; 
be  true  to  thy  Prince  :  and  obey  the  Lawes.  At  London.  Printed  by 
Ricliarde  lones,  dwelling  at  the  Signe  of  the  Rose  and  Crowne,  neere 
Holborne  bridge.  li^iT.    4to.    Black  letter.     The  edges  uncut.    R.  M. 

A — G  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  William  Cecil. 


1586  WHETSTONE— WHITE. 

WHETSTONE,  George.    The  Censvre  of  a  loyall  Subiect 

As  also,  of  the  Scottish  Queen,  now  (thankes  be  to  God)  cut  off  by 
iustice,  as  the  principall  Roote  of  al  their  treasons.  On  Wednesday 
the  8.  of  Februarie  1586.  Wherein,  &c.  (as  before)  At  London  Printed 
by  Richard  Idles.  .  .  .  [15S7.]    4to.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

A — G  2  in  fours. 

A  reissue  in  Februar>',  15S6-7,  with  the  title  and  last  leaf  reprinted.  The  two 
issues  agree  so  far  as  the  middle  of  G  2  recto  ;  but  then,  in  the  place  of  a  paragraph 
which  refers  to  Mary  Queen  of  Scots  as  still  living,  another  is  inserted,  mentioning 
her  execution,  which  had  taken  place  in  the  meantime.  This  piece  was  edited,  during 
the  absence  of  Whetstone  in  the  country,  by  his  friend  Thomas  Churchyard,  who 
signs  with  his  initials  a  short  address  to  the  reader  on  the  back  of  the  title. 

See  Hunter's  "  New  Illustrations  of  Shakespeare,"  1845,  i.,  222,  Note. 

WHITAKER,  Alexander.  Good  Newes  from  Virginia.  Sent 
to  the  Covnsell  and  Company  of  Virginia,  resident  in  England.  From 
Alexander  Whitaker,  the  Minister  of  Henrico  in  Virginia.  Wherein 
also  is  a  Narration  of  the  present  State  of  that  Countrey,  and  our 
Colonies  there.  Perused  and  published  by  direction  from  that  Counsell. 
And  a  Preface  prefixed  of  some  matters  touching  that  Plantation,  very 
requisite  to  be  made  knowne.  At  London,  Iviprinted  by  Felix  Kyngston 
for  William  Welby,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  Pauls  Church- 
yard at  the  signe  of  the  Swanne  161 3.    4to.   The  edges  uncut. 

A — I  in  fours. 

Twenty-three  pages  of  this  tract  are  occupied  by  an  Epistle  to  Lord  Ure, 
President  of  Wales,  subscribed  JV.  Crashawe ;  two  pages  follow,  containing  the 
dedication  of  Alexander  Whitaker  to  Sur  Thomas  Smith,  Treasurer  of  Virginia. 
The  narrative  itself  begins  on  D  3. 

WHITAKER,  T.  D.  The  History  of  Richmondshire  in  the  North 
Riding  of  the  County  of  York  ;  together  with  those  parts  of  the 
Everwicshire  of  Domesday  which  form  the  Wapentakes  of  Lonsdale, 
Ewecross,  and  Amunderness,  in  the  Counties  of  York,  Lancaster, 
and  Westmoreland.  By  Thomas  Dunham  Whitaker.  .  .  .  London, 
1823.  2  vols.  Folio.  Large  paper.  India  proof  plates.  R.  M. 
The  arms  in  this  copy  are  emblazoned. 

WHITAKER,  Tobias.  The  Blood  of  the  Grape  Republished  and 
enlarged  by  the  Author.  {Printed)  For  Samuel  Brovn  \at  tlie  Hague.'] 
1654.    Sm.  Bvo. 

A — F  in  twelves. 

The  first  edition  was  in  1638.  Whitaker  was  at  this  time  physician  to  Charles 
II.  at  the  Hague. 

WHITE,  John.  The  Country-Man's  Conductor  In  Reading  and 
Writing  true  English,  Containing  such  Rules  as  the  Author,  by  near 


WHITE.  1587 

Forty  Years  Practice  in  Tcachincj,  hath  found  Necessary  and  Useful 
to  that  end.  Printed  chiefly  for  the  Use  of  the  Author's  own  Scliool, 
and  may  also  be  useful  to  all  Teachers,  Parents,  IMasters  of  Families, 
and  Single-Persons,  to  improve  themselves,  their  Children  and  Families, 

in    good   English By  John   White,   sometime  Master  of  M^ 

Chilcot's  English-Free-School  in  Tiverton,  and  now  Master  of  a 
Boarding-School  in  Butterly,  near  Tiverton  aforesaid.  Exeter  :  Printed 
by  Sam.  Farley,  for  the  Author;  atid  sold  by  M"".  Humphry  Burton  in 
Tiverton,  M''.  Philip  Bishop  in  Exon,  M''.  Taylor  at  the  Ship  in  St. 
Paul's  Chureh-  Yard  in  London,  M''.  Rich.  Gravett  at  the  Tohey  in 
Bristol,  1 70 1.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — K  in  eights. 

A  very  curious  little  work  on  orthography  and  pronunciation. 

In  the  original  sheep-skin  binding.  A  copy  is  in  the  British  Museum  of  this 
exceedingly  rare  volume. 

The  very  curious  introductory  matter  is  given  at  full  in  the  privately  printed 
"  Book  of  Prefaces,"  1874. 

WHITE,  Richard.  Ricardi  Viti  Basinstochii  Comitis  Palatini, 
Historiarvm  Britanniae  Insulae,  ab  Origine  Mundi,  ad  annum  Christi 
octingentesimum,  Libri  Nouem  Priores,  ad  Senatvm,  Populumq,;  Bri- 

tannvm.    \I)uaci'\  Apud  Carolvm  Boscardvm M.D.CII.    Sm.  Svo. 

R.  M. 

The  first  five  books  contain  title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  pp.  7-469  ; 
Emendationes,  i  leaf.  Book  VI.,  dated  Diiaci,  1598.  Title  and  preliminaries,  4 
leaves  ;  pp.  1-123  ;  Emendationes,  i  leaf  Book  VII.,  dated  Dtiaci,  1600.  Title  and 
preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  pp.  1-96.  Book  VIII.,  dated  Duaci,  1600.  Title  and  dedi- 
cation, 2  leaves  ;  pp.  1-108.  Book  IX.,  dated  Duaci,  1602.  Title  and  preliminaries, 
4  leaves  ;  pp.  1-174  ;  Emendationes,  &c.,  i  leaf. 

Books  X.  and  XI.  were  printed  at  Douay  in  1606  and  1607,  but  they  are  of  the 
rarest  occurrence. 

WHITE,  Richard  Grant.  Memoirs  of  the  life  of  William 
Shakespeare,  with  an  essay  toward  the  expression  of  his  genius,  and 
an  account  of  the  rise  and  progress  of  the  English  Drama.  Boston. 
1866.    8vo. 

A  presentation  copy  from  Mr.  White. 

WHITE,  Tristram.  The  Martyrdome  of  Saint  George  of  Cap- 
padocia  :  Titular  Patron  of  England,  and  of  the  most  Noble  Order  of 
the  Garter.  Printed  at  London  for  William  Barley,  dwelling  in  Bishops- 
gate-streete.     1 6 14.    4to.    BL.  M. 

A — D  3  in  fours,  and  the  title-page,  on  which  is  a  large  woodcut. 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection.     See  Mr.  Collier's  "  Bibl.  Cat.,"  ii.,  519-21. 

The  book  is  dedicated  by  the  publisher  to  Mr.  George  Shilliton,  the  King's  Re- 
ceiver for  Yorkshire. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  Sapphics  found  at  the  end  of  this  rare  volume  are  the 
earliest  examples  of  that  kind  of  metre  in  the  English  language,  but  earlier  ones 


1588  WHITELOCKE—WHITFORD. 

may  be  found  in  "Certaine  English  Verses,"  1586,  and  in  Colse's  "  Penelope's  Com- 
plaint," 1596.  See  the  privately  printed  "  Fugitive  Tracts,"  ist  series,  and  volume  of 
"  Prefaces,"  &c.,  1874,  p.  165. 

WHITELOCKE,  Sir  Bulstrode.  Memorials  of  the  English 
Affairs  :  or,  An  Historical  Account  of  what  passed  from  the  Beginning 
of  the  Reign  of  King  Charles  the  First,  to  King  Charles  the  Second 
His  Happy  Restauration  ....  With  a  Compleat  Index.  A  New 
Edition  :  With  many  Additions  never  before  Printed.  London.  1732. 
Folio. 

WHITFIELD,  G.  Three  Letters  from  the  Reverend  M^  G. 
Whitefield  :  viz :  Letter  I.  To  a  Friend  in  London,  concerning  Arch- 
bishop Tillotson.  Letter  II.  To  the  same,  on  the  same  subject. 
Letter  III.  To  the  Inhabitants  of  Maryland,  Virginia,  North  and 
South-Carolina,  concerning  their  Negroes.  PhiladelpJiia :  Printed  arid 
Sold  by  B.  Franklin,  at  the  New  Printing-Office  near  the  Market.  1740. 
8vo.     The  edges  uncut. 

Pp.  16,  including  the  title. 

A  Letter  To  the  Reverend  D".  Chauncy,  On  Account  of  some 


Passages  relating  to  the  Rev**.  M'.  Whitefield,  In  his  Book  intitled 

Seasonable  Thoughts  on  the  State  of  Religion  in  New-England.    By 

George  Whitefield,  A.B.  Late  of  Pembroke-College,  Oxon. —  Veniani 

petimnsque  damiisque  vicissim  :  Hor.    Philadelphia  :  Printed  and  Sold 

by  W.  Bradford  at  tlie  Bible  in  Second-street.    1745.    Sm.  Svo.     The 

edges  uncut. 

A — D  in  fours. 

WHITFORD,  Richard.  Here  begynneth  the  boke  called  the 
Pype/  or  Tonne/  of  the  lyfe  of  perfection.  The  reason  or  cause  wherof 
dothe  playnely  appere  in  the  processe.  [Colophon.]  Imprynted 
at  london  in  Fletestretej  by  me  Robert  Redmanj  dwellynge  in  Saynt 
Dunstoncs  parysshej  next  the  churche.  In  the  yere  of  our  lorde  god  a 
tlwusande  fyue  hondred  and  jxxxii.  The  jxxiii.  day  of  Marclic.  Cum 
priuilegio  Regali.    4to.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

A — B  in  fours  ;  C,  8  leaves  ;  D — Qq  in  fours  and  eights  alternately  (no  sigs.  Y  or 
Z)  ;  Rr,  6  leaves,  the  last  having  a  woodcut  of  the  crucifixion  on  the  recto,  and  on 
the  verso  Redman's  large  device. 

In  the  address  to  the  devout  readers,  printed  on  the  back  of  the  title,  the 
author  says:  "This  work  was  wrytten  yeres  ago.  And  now  thought  necessary  to  be 
sende  forth  bycause  of  these  newe  fangle  personcs/  which  in  dede  ben  heretykes/ 
all  though  they  wyll  nat  so  be  called/  y  done  write  newe  oppinions  .  .  ." 

A  Werke  for  housholders/  or  for  them  y  haue  the  gydynge 


or  gouernauncc  of  any  company.    Gadred  &  set  forth  by  a  professed 


WHITGIFT— WHITNEY.  1589 

brother  of  Syon  Rycharde  Whitforde.  And  newly  corrected  &  pryntcd 
agaync  w  an  addicion  of  policy  for  housholdyngc,  set  forth  also  by 
the  same  brother.  [Colophon.]  Iinpryntcd  at  London  in  Flctestrctcj  at 
tlie  sygne  of  tlie  Somief  by  Wyiikyn  de  ivorde.  In  the  ycre  of  otir  lorde 
god.  M.CCCCCjcxxiij.  tJie  seconde  daye  of  Maye.    4to.    Black  letter.    R. 

A — H  in  fours,  with  a  large  woodcut  occupying  the  greater  part  of  the  first  page. 

The  only  copy  known  of  this  edition.  From  the  collections  of  Sir  F.  Freeling 
and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Luxmoore.  In  the  Bodleian  Library  is  the  only  copy  known  of  an 
edition  of  1 530.  As  that  is  described  as  "  newly  corrected  "  it  is  possible  that  there 
was  an  earlier  edition. 

WHITGIFT,  John,  Abp.  of  Canterbury.  An  answere  to  a 
certen  Libel  intituled.  An  admonition  to  the  Parliament.    By  lohn 

Whitgifte,  D.  of  Diuinitie Imprinted  at  London,   by  Henrie 

Bynneman,for  Hiimfrey  Toy.    Anno.  1^72.    4to.    Black  letter. 
A,  4  leaves  ;  a,  2  leaves  ;  B — Pp  in  fours. 

WHITINGTON,  R.  Vulgaria  Roberti  Whitintoni  Lichfeldiensis 
Laureati,  &  de  institutione  gramaticulorQ  opusculu,  libello  suo  de 
cocinnitate  gramatices  accommodatu,  &  in  quattuor  partes  digestum. 
....  [Colophon.]  Londijii  in  edibus  Winandi  de  Worde.  xxvii.  supra 
sesquimillesimum  nostre  saliitis  anno.    4to.    BR.  M. 

Forty-eight  leaves. 

WHITNEY,  Geffrey.  A  ChoiceofEmblemes,  and  other  Devises. 
For  the  moste  parte  gathered  out  of  sundrie  writers,  Englished  and 
Moralized.  And  Divers  newly  devised.  By  Geffrey  Whitney.  A 
worke  adorned  with  varietie  of  matter,  both  pleasant  and  profitable : 
wherein  those  that  please,  maye  finde  to  fit  their  fancies :  Bicause 
herein,  by  the  office  of  the  eie,  and  the  eare,  the  minde  may  reape 
dooble  delighte  throughe  holsome  preceptes,  shadowed  with  pleasant 
deuises :  both  fit  for  the  vertuous,  to  their  incoraging :  and  for  the 
wicked,  for  their  admonishing  and  amendment.  To  the  Reader. 
Peruse  with  heede,  then  frendlie  iudge,  and  blaming  rash  refraine :  So 
maist  thou  reade  vnto  thy  good,  and  shalt  requite  my  paine.  Imprinted 
at  Ley  den,  In  the  house  of  Christopher  Plantyn,  by  Francis  Raphclengius. 
M.D.LXXXVI.    4to.    Large  paper.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  A — Z  in  fours,  and  a — f  3  in  fours. 

As  a  large  paper  copy  this  is  probably  unique. 

WHITNEY,  John.  The  Genteel  Recreation  :  Or,  the  Pleasure  of 
Angling,  A  Poem.  With  a  Dialogve  between  Piscator  and  Corydon. 
By  John  Whitney,  A  Lover  of  the  Angle.  London,  Printed  in  the  Year 
1700.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

Title,  dedication,  and  preface,  6  leaves  ;  B — K  in  fours,  H  4  blank. 

Dedicated  "To  My  Honoured  Friend  John  Hyde  Esq." 

It  appears  from  the  preface  that  Whitney  selected  Hyde  as  the  patron  of  his 

9G 


1 590  WHOL  E—  WICKL I  FEE. 

book  on  account  of  the  kindness  of  the  latter  in  allowing  him  to  fish  at  Winckhurst. 
He  relates  that  while  he  was  there,  in  company  with  an  old  gentleman,  a  Captain 
Comer,  who  was  enjoying  the  sport,  his  companion  had  left  his  rod  for  a  moment, 
when  a  fish  came  and  took  away  rod  and  all.  But  Comer  stripped,  jumped  in,  and 
brought  out  both  rod  and  fish,  "  with  much  content  to  regain  his  rod." 

WHOLE  DUTY  OF  MAN.  The  Practice  of  Christian  Graces. 
Or,  the  Whole  Duty  of  Man  Laid  Down  In  a  Plain  and  Familiar  Way 
for  the  Use  of  All,  but  especially  the  Meanest  Reader.     Divided  into 

XVII.  Chapters Necessary  for  all  Families.    With  Private 

Devotions  For  Several  Occasions.  London.  Printed  for  T.  Garthwait 
at  the  little  North  door  of  S.  Pauls.     1659.     Sm.  8vo.    O.  M. 

A,  4  leaves,  including  a  frontispiece  by  W.  Hollar  ;  a,  8  leaves  ;  B — Bb  in  eights  ; 
"  Private  Devotions  "  (with  a  new  title),  A — F  in  eights. 

First  edition. 

WIBARNE,  Jos.  The  New  Age  of  Old  Names.  By  los.  Wib. 
Master  of  Artes  of  Trinitie  Colledge  in  Cambridge  .  .  .  London  Printed 
for  William  Barret,  and  Henry  Fetherstonc.    1C09.    4to.    o.  M. 

A — S  in  fours,  S  4  blank. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  John  Wentworth.  The  notice  to  the  reader  is  reprinted  in  the 
privately  printed  Book  of  Prefaces,  &c.,  1874,  p.  224,  where  it  is  pointed  out  that  in 
the  text  there  are  two  or  three  allusions  to  America  and  a  reference  to  one  of  the 
Gothamite  Tales,  not  found  in  the  printed  collection  of  them,  but  no  doubt  at  that 
time  orally  current. 

WICKLIFFE,  John.  Jo.  Wiclefi  viri  vndeqvaqve  pijs.  dialogoru 
Hbri  qttuor  quoru  primus  diuinitate  &  Ideas  tractat,  Secudus  univer- 
saru  creations  c5plectitur.  Tertius  de  uirtutib.  uitijsq,  ipsis  cotrarijs 
copiosissime  locjtur.  Quartus  Ro.  ecclesi^  sacrameta,  eius  pestifera 
dotatione,  antichristi  regnu,  fratrii  fraudulenta  origine  atq,  eoru  hypo- 
crisim,  uariaq,  nfo  aeuo  scitu  dignissima,  graphice  pstringit,  qu§  ut 
essent  inuetu  facilia,  singulorii  libroru,  tum  caput,  turn  capitis  summa 
indice  praenotauimus.  M.D.XXV.  [Colophon.]  Exeusum  Anno  a 
Christo  nato  MDXXV.  Die  VIL Martii.    4to.    O.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries, 6  leaves;  B,  8  leaves;  C — Z  in  fours  ;  Aa — Xx  3  in  fours. 

Wicklieffes  Wicket.  Faythfully  ouerseene  and  corrected  after 

the  originall  and  first  copie.  The  lacke  wherof  was  cause  of  innu- 
merable and  shamfull  erroures  in  the  other  edicion.  As  shall  easyly 
appeare  to  them  that  lyste  to  conferre  the  one  with  the  other.  Here- 
unto is  added  an  Epistle  to  the  reader.  With  the  protestacion  of  Jhon 
Lassels  late  burned  in  Smythfelde :  and  the  Testament  of  Wyllyam 
Tracie  Esquire,  expounded  by  Willyam  Tyndall,  and  Jhon  Frythe. 
[Quotation  from  the  6th  chapter  of  St.  John.]  \No  place,  printer's  name, 
or  date.]    Sm.  8vo.    BlacA  letter.    G.  M. 

a — d  in  eights. 

The  first  edition  of  this  little  work  was  published  with  the  imprint  of  "  Noren- 


WICKLIFFE—WIERX.  1591 

burch"  1546.  This  second  edition  was  put  forth  by  Myles  Coverdale,  whose  initials 
are  found  at  the  end  thus,  "  Oucrseene  by  M.  C."  From  the  title  of  the  first  edition 
as  given  by  Herbert,  p.  1 559,  it  would  seem  tliat  it  did  not  contain  the  protestation  of 
John  Lascelles,  which  in  this  second  edition  is  placed  between  the  treatise  of 
Wickliffe  and  "  the  Testament  of  William  Tracie."  Lascelles  was  burned  in 
Smithfield  in  1546. 

WICKLIFFE,  John.  The  true  copyc  of  a  Prolog  wiytten  about 
two  C.  yeres  past  by  John  Wycklife  (as  maye  iustly  be  gathcrid  bi 
that,  that  John  Bale  hath  writte  of  him  in  his  boke  entitlid  the  Sum- 
marie  of  famouse  writers  of  the  Isle  of  great  Brita)  the  Originall 
whereof  is  founde  written  in  an  olde  English  Bible  bitwixt  the  olde 
Testament  and  the  Newe.  Whych  Bible  remaynith  now  in  y  Kyng 
hys  maiesties  Chamber.  Imprinted  at  Londim  by  Robert  Croiu/ey  divel- 
lynge  in  Elie  rents  in  Holburn.  Anno  Do.  MDL.  Cum  priuilcgio  ad 
hnprimendum  solum.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — R  in  eights.  With  a  woodcut  portrait  of  Wickliffe  on  the  page 
following  the  title. 

Two  Short  Treatises,  Against  the  Orders  of  the  Begging 

Friars,  compiled  by  That  Famovs  Doctovr  of  the  Chvrch,  and  Preacher 
of  Gods  word  John  WickclifFe,  sometime  fellow  of  Merton,  and  Master 
of  Ballioll  Coll.  in  Oxford,  and  afterwards  Parson  of  Lutterworth  in 
Lecestershire.  Faithfully  Printed  according  to  two  ancient  Manu- 
script Copies,  extant,  the  one  in  Benet  Colledge  in  Cambridge ;  the 
other  remaining  in  the  Publike  Librarie  at  Oxford  .  ...  At  Oxford, 
Printed  by  loseph  Barnes,  printer  to  the  Vniversitie.    1608.    4to.    BL.  M. 

IT,  4  leaves  ;  A — H  in  fours,  H  4  occupied  by  a  short  glossary. 
First  edition.    Dedicated  by  Thomas  James,  the  editor,  to  Sir  Thomas  Flemynge, 
Knight,  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  England. 

WIDOW  OF  WATLING-STREET.  The  first  part  of  the  faire 
widow  of  Watlingstreet  &  her  3  daughters,  and  how  her  wicked  sonne 
accused  her  to  be  a  harlot,  &  his  sisters  bastards,  only  to  deceiue  them 
of  their  portions.  To  the  tune  of  Bragandary.  Imprinted  at  London 
for  T.  P.[avier.]  The  second  part  ....  To  the  tune  of  the  Wan- 
ton wife.   Imprinted,  &c.    A  Broadside.    Black  letter. 

Printed  on  two  sheets  within  borders.     The  only  copy  known. 

This  is  apparently  the  earliest  impression  remaining  of  the  ballad  upon  which 
is  founded  the  drama  of  "  The  Puritan,"  printed  in  1607. 

Reprinted  in  "  Anc.  Ballads,"  &c.,  1867.  There  is  also  in  the  library  a  separate 
reprint  edited  by  Mr.  Halliwell,  1S60,  sm.  Svo.,  of  which  only  thirty  copies  were 
struck  off. 

WIERX,  H.  lesu  Christi  Dei  Domini  Salvatoris  nostri  Infantia. 
\Antv.  circa  1600.]    4to. 

Seventeen  plates,  including  the  title. 


1592  WIERX—WILD. 

WIERX,  H.    Specvlvm  Virginitatis.   Hieronymus  WIcrx  inuenit, 
incidit,  excudit.    Cum  Gratia  ct  Priitilcgio.    Biisc/ierc.   4to.    BR.  M. 
A  series  of  thirteen  plates,  without  letterpress. 

A  Collection  of  Sixteen  Beautiful  Engravings  of  devotional 


subjects.    [Antv.  s.  a^    4to.    BR.  M. 

WIFFEN,  J.  H.  Historical  Memoirs  of  the  House  of  Russell. 
From  the  time  of  the  Norman  Conquest.  London.  1833.  2  vols.  8vo. 
Bound  in  four.    Large  paper.   R. 

Besides  the  usual  plates,  the  present  copy  is  illustrated  by  a  large  number  of 
additional  portraits  and  other  engravings. 

[WIGGLESWORTH,  Michael.]  The  day  of  Doom:  Or,  A  De- 
scription of  the  Great  and  Last  Judgment.  With  a  Short  Discourse 
about  Eternity.  London,  Printed  by  IV.  G.for  Jolin  Sims  .  .  .  1673. 
Sm.  8vo. 

A— E  in  twelves,  but  B  and  C  are  in  fact  one  signature,  through  irregularity  in 
the  marking.     In  verse. 

The  author  was  minister  of  Maldon,  Massachusetts  (1631-1705).  It  was  pro- 
bably first  printed  at  Boston,  though  no  copy  of  the  original  edition  is  extant.  The 
first  London  edition  is  1666.     The  poem  was  frequently  reprinted  in  New  England. 

WILBYE,  John.  The  First  Set  of  English  Madrigals  to  3.  4.  5. 
and  6  voices  :  Newly  composed  by  lohn  Wilbye.  At  London  :  Printed 
by  Thomas  Este.    1598.    Six  parts  in  i  vol.   4to.    O.  M. 

Cantus,  A — D  in  fours  ;  Ouintus,  A — C  2  in  fours  ;  Altus,  A — D  in  fours  ; 
Tenor,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours  ;  Sextus,  A,  2  leaves,  and  B,  4  leaves  ;  Bassus, 
A — D  in  fours.  The  Tenor  and  Sextus  are  dedicated  to  Sir  Charles  Cavendish 
from  the  Augustine  Friars,  12th  April,  1598,  and  refer  to  Sir  Charles's  "  excellent 
skill  in  Musicke,  and  great  loue  and  fauour  of  Musicke." 

The  Second  Set  of  Madrigales  to  3. 4.  5.  and  6  parts,  apt  both 

for  Voyals  and  Voyces.  Newly  Composed  by  lohn  Wilbye.  1609. 
London:  Printed  by  Tho.  Este  alias  Snodhamfor  JoIlh  Browne  .... 
Six  parts  in  i  vol.    4to.    o.  M. 

Cantus,  A,  2  leaves,  and  B — F  in  fours  ;  Altus,  the  same  ;  Quintus,  A,  2  leaves  ; 
and  B — D  in  fours,  D  4  blank  ;  Tenor,  A,  2  leaves  ;  and  B — E  in  fours  ;  Se.xtus,  A, 
2  leaves  ;  B — C  2  in  fours  ;  Bassus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — F  in  fours. 

The  work  is  dedicated  to  the  Lady  Arabella  Stuart ;  and  the  author  speaks  of 
"  the  deepe  vnderstanding  "  that  unfortunate  lady  had  in  all  the  arts,  and  her  par- 
ticular excellence  in  that  of  music. 

WILD,  Robert.    Iter  Borcale.    Together  with  some  other  Select 
Poems,  Not  heretofore  Printed.  By  the  same  Author.   London,  Printed 
for  L.  F.  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  Parrot  in  St.  PauPs  Church-yard. 
1 66 1.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — D  in  eights,  the  first  leaf  blank.    The  earliest  collected  edition. 


WILD— WILKINSON.  1593 

WILD,  Robert.  Iter  Borcalc,  With  large  Additions  of  several 
other  Poems  being  An  exact  collection  of  all  hitherto  Extant.  Never 
before  Published  together.  The  Author  R.  Wild.  D.D.  Printed  for 
the  Booksellers  in  London,  MDCLXVIII.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — H  7  in  eights,  title  on  A  2.     Second  collected  edition. 

A  Poem  vpon  the  Imprisonment  of  Mr.  Calamy  in  Newgate. 


By  Robert  Wild.  D.D.  Author  of  the  late  "  Iter  Borealc."  [«./.  or  d. 
About  1660.]    A  Broadside. 

In  verse,  printed  in  two  columns. 

WILKES,  William.  Obedience  Or  Ecclesiasticall  Vnion.  Trea- 
tised  by  William  Wilkes  Doctor  in  Theologie,  and  one  of  his  Maiesties 

Chaplaines  in  ordinarie At  London  Iviprintcd  by  G.  Elde  for 

Roger  Jackson,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Fleet-street,  neere  the 
Conduict.    Anno  Doui.    1605.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours,  e.xcept  B,  which  has  only  3  leaves.  L  4  is  occupied  by  the 
Errata. 

WILKINS,  David.  Concilia  Magnae  Britanniae  et  Hiberniae 
a  Synodo  Verolamiensi  A.D.  CCCCXLVI.  ad  Londinensem  A.D. 
CIDIDCCXVII.  Accedunt  Constitutiones  et  alia  ad  Historiam  Ec- 
clesiae  Anglicanae  spectantia.   Londini.    1737.   4  vols.    Folio.    R. 

WILKINS,  George.  Three  Miseries  of  Barbary:  Plague.  Famine. 
Ciuill  Warre.  With  a  relation  of  the  Death  of  Mahamet  the  late 
Emperour :  and  a  briefe  report  of  the  now  present  Wars  betvveene  the 
three  Brothers.  Printed  by  W.  I.  for  Henry  Gosson,  and  are  to  be  sold 
in  Pater  noster  rowe  at  tlie  sigtte  of  the  Siinne.  [1603.]  4to.  Black  letter. 
A — D  in  fours,  title  on  A 2.    See  Collier's  "  Bibl.  Catal.,"  ii.,  524. 

The  Miseries  of  Inforst  Marriage.     Playd  by  his  Majesties 

Servants.     Qui  alios  iscipsuni)  docet.    By  George  Wilkins.     London, 
Printed  by  I.  N.  for  Richard  Thrale,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  at 
Pauls  gate ;  next  to  Cheape-side.    M.DC.XXXVII.    4to. 
A — K  2  in  fours.     From  Mr.  Heber's  collection. 

WILKINSON,  Robert.  The  Merchant  Royall.  A  Sermon 
preached  at  White  Hall  before  the  Kings  Maiestie,  at  the  Nuptials  of 
the  Right  Honourable  the  Lord  Hay  and  his  Lady,  vpon  the  Twelfe 
day  last  being  lanuar.  6.  1607.  At  London  Printed  by  Felix  Kyngston 
for  lohn  Flasket,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  at  the  signe  of  the  black 
Beare.    1607.   4to. 

A — F  in  fours,  the  first  leaf  blank.     With  a  woodcut  of  a  ship  on  the  title. 

WILKINSON,  Robert.  Londina  Illustrata  ;  or.  Graphic  and 
Historic  Memorials  of  Monasteries,  Churches,  Chapels,  Schools  .... 


1 5  94  W/L  KINS  ON—  WIL  LIAMS. 

in  the  Cities  and  Suburbs  of  London  and  Westminster.  London  .  .  . 
1808-12.    Bound  in  3  vols.   4to.    Plates. 

WILKINSON,  William.  A  Confutation  of  certaine  Articles 
deliuered  vnto  the  Familye  of  Loue,  with  the  exposition  of  Theophilus, 

a  supposed  Elder  in  the  sayd  Familye  vpon  the  same  Articles 

At  London.  Printed  by  John  Daye  divdling  oner  Alder sgate.  An.  1579. 
Cum  Priuilegio  .  .  .  4to.    Blaek  letter. 

Title,  I  leaf,  with  an  approbation  from  Richard,  Bishop  of  Ely,  on  the  back  ; 
dedication  to  the  Bishop,  and  to  the  Reader,  4  leaves  ;  View  of  the  Origin  &c.  of 
the  Heresies,  3  leaves,  and  then  A — B  in  fours  ;  b,  2  leaves  ;  C— Y  in  fours. 

WILLIAM  III.   An  Exact  Relation  of  the  Entertainment  of  His 

Most  Sacred  Majesty  William  III.  King  of  England at  the 

Hague.  Giving  a  particular  Description  of  His  Majesty's  Entry  there, 
Jan.  26,  1690-1.  And  of  the  several  Triumphant  Arches,  Pyramids, 
Pictures,  &c.  With  the  Inscriptions  and  Devices.  Illustrated  with 
Copper  Plates  of  the  whole  Solemnity,  exactly  drawn  from  the  Origi- 
nal. By  an  English  Gentleman.  London :  Printed,  and  are  to  be  sold 
by  Randal  Taylornear  Stationers-Hall.    1691.    Sm.  Svo. 

A,  6  leaves ;  B,  8  leaves  ;  C,  7  leaves.    With  four  folded  engravings. 

WILLIAMS,  Edward.  Virgo  Trivmphans  :  or,  Virginia  richly 
and  truly  valued  ;  more  especially  the  South  part  thereof :  viz.  The  fer- 
tile Carolana,  and  no  lesse  excellent  Isle  of  Roanoak,  of  Latitude  from 
31  to  37  Degr.  relating  the  meanes  of  raising  infinite  profits  to  the 
Adventurers  and  Planters  :  Humbly  presented  as  the  Auspice  of  a 
beginning  Yeare  To  the  Parliament  of  England,  And  Councell  of  State. 
By  Edward  Williams,  Gent.  London,  Printed  by  Thomas  Harper,  for 
John  Steplienson,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  on  Liidgate-Hill,  at  the 
Signe  of  the  Snnne,  \6^o.   4to. 

B,  4  leaves,  and  the  title,  i  leaf;  C3-4,  2  leaves  ;  C— I  in  fours. 

Virginia  :  More  especially  the  South  part  thereof,  Richly  and 

truly  valued  :  viz.  The  fertile  Carolana,  and  no  lesse  excellent  Isle 
of  Roanoak,  of  Latitude  from  31.  to  37.  Degr.  relating  the  meanes  of 
raysing  infinite  profits  to  the  Adventurers  and  Planters.  The  second 
Edition,  with  Addition  of  the  Discovery  of  Silkworms,  with  their 
benefit.  And  Implanting  of  Mulberry  Trees.  Also  The  Dressing  of 
Vines,  for  the  rich  Trade  of  making  Wines  in  Virginia.  Together 
with  The  making  of  the  Saw-mill,  very  usefuU  to  Virginia,  for  cutting 
of  Timber  and  Clapbord  to  build  withall,  and  its  Conversion  to 
many  as  profitable  Uses.  By  E.  W.  Gent.  Londofi,  Printed  by  T.  H. 
for  John  Steplienson,  at  the  Signe  of  the  Snn  bclotv  Ludgate.  1650. 
4to.    R.  M. 


WILLIAMS.  1595 

A,  2  leaves  ;  n — I  in  fours  ;  "  The  Discovery  of  Silkworms,  &c. ,"  with  a  new 
title  ;  A— L  in  fours,  first  and  last  leaves  blank,  with  woodcuts. 

This  is  a  second  issue  of  the  "  Virgo  Triuinphans,"  omitting  the  addresses  of 
Williams  "To  the  Conservers  and  Enlargers  of  the  Liberties  of  the  Nation,  &c." 
and  to  the  Reader,  with  the  Errata ;  and  adding  what  was  not  in  the  former  issue, 
an  address  "  To  the  worthy  Gentlemen,  Adventurers,  and  Planters  in  Virginia," 
subscribed  with  Williams's  initials. 

In  the  next  year  a  third  title  was  given  to  the  book  as  follows  :  "Virginia  in 
America,  Richly  Valued  :  More  especially  the  Southerne  Parts.  With  the  Tendure 
of  the  Vine,  and  Silke-worme,  making  Wines  and  Silks  there  :  and  framing  of 
Saw-mils,  to  cut  Timber  for  Building.  Shewing  also  divers  other  meanes  of 
raysing  infinite  profits  to  Adventurers  and  Planters.  Together  with  A  compleat  Map 
of  the  Country,  from  35.  to  41.  Degrees  of  Latitude  discovered,  and  the  West  Sea. 
London,  Printed  for  John  Stephenson  .  .  .  M.DC.LI." 

This  copy  has  the  title  to  the  issue  of  165 1  inserted,  and  the  map  by  Goddard 
in  two  states ;  i.  On  thin  paper,  without  the  oval  portrait  of  Sir  Francis  Drake, 
and  without  some  of  the  names  of  places  which  are  added  in  the  other.     The 

imprint  is  :  John  Farrer  Esq.  Collegit.    Are  sold  by  J.  Stephenson 1651. 

2.  On  thicker  paper,  with  the  portrait  of  Drake  at  the  top  towards  the  left  hand 
corner,  many  names  of  places  filled  in,  and  the  imprint  varied,  Domina  Virginia 
Farrer  Collegit,  &c. 

WILLIAMS,  Sir  Roger.  The  Actions  of  The  Lowe  Countries. 
Written  by  S'  Roger  Williams  Knight.  London,  Printed  by  Hnmfrey 
Lowncs,  for  Matthew  Lownes.   16 18.    4to. 

f ,  3  leaves,  title  on  H  2  ;  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — S  3  in  fours. 

With  a  preface  by  Sir  John  Hayward.  Sir  Peter  Manwoode,  in  the  dedication  to 
Sir  Francis  Bacon,  speaks  of  the  work  as  a  "  part  of  Historie,"  which  had  lain  a 
long  time  by  him  in  MS.  The  author  himself  had  published  in  his  lifetime  "  A 
Brief  Discourse  of  War,"  4to.  1590. 

WILLIAMS,  William.  The  Mysterie  of  Iniquitie,  or,  A  re- 
markable Relation  of  a  Carmarthin-Shire  Cause,  the  like  was  never 
heard  in  England  before,  nor  is  hoped  will  never  be  again.  Being  The 
true  state  of  the  present  Cause,  and  Transactions  and  Differences 
between  William  Willi.ams  Gentleman,  Prisoner  in  the  Fleet,  and 
Morgan  Owens,  and  Owen  Price  Gentleman,  the  Earl  of  Carbery,  and 
other  Confederates.  Wherein  Is  shewed  and  discovered  unheard-of 
and  abominable  Cruelties,  and  a  new  way  to  get  an  Estate  by  the 
Destruction  of  the  Innocent.  .  .  .  Printed  in  February  1655,    4to. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

The  King,  And  none  under  God,  but  the  King,  Can  save  this 


Nation.  With  a  Welch  Prophesie  (prophecicd  above  a  Thousand 
years  ago)  now  Englished  and  Fulfilled  to  the  Admiration  of  all  that 
reads  it.  By  William  Williams,  Gent.  [Quotation  from  Eccl.  viii.,  4.] 
London,  Printed  by  Thomas  Crcake,  1660.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 


1596  WILLI  FORD— WILLIS. 

WILLIFORD.  The  Examination,  Confession,  Triall,  and  Exe- 
cution, of  Joane  Williford,  Joan  Cariden,  and  Jane  Hott :  Who  were 
executed  at  Feversham  in  Kent,  for  being  Witches,  on  Monday  the 
29  of  September,  1645.  .  .  .  With  the  Examination  and  Confession  of 
Elizabeth  Harris,  not  yet  executed.  All  attested  under  the  hand  of 
Robert  Greenstreet,  Major  of  Feversham.  London,  Printed  for  J.  G. 
October  2.  1645.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  last  leaf  is  slightly  defective. 

WILLIS,  Browne.  The  History  and  Antiquities  of  the  Town, 
Hundred,  and  Deanery  of  Buckingham.  .  .  .  London:  Printed  for  tlie 
Author,  MDCCLV.    4to.    R. 

This  copy  has  a  cancel  for  pp.  215-16,  and  numerous  MS.  marginalia  in  the 
handwriting  of  Willis. 

The  History  of  the  Mitred  Parliamentary  Abbies  and  Con- 


ventual Cathedral  Churches.  .  .  .London..  .  .  1718-19.    2  vols.    Svo. 

Large  paper.    BL.  M. 

WILLIS,  Humphrey.    Times  Whirligig.    Or,  The  Blew-new- 

made-Gentleman  mounted.    Written  by  a  faithfull  Servant  and  true 

Lover  of  his  Countrey,  Hum.  Willis,  Esquire.    Printed  in  tlie  Yeare, 

1647.    4to. 

A — C  iu  fours.    A  woodcut  on  the  title.     In  verse. 

Englands  Changeling  or.  The  Time  Servers  Laid  open  in 

their  Colours,  being  A  clear  Discovery  of  the  New  Cheat  of  the  Thing 
called  the  Good  Old  Cause.  By  one  that  hopes  to  see  better  Times. 
Printed  in  tlieyear,  1659.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    In  verse. 

This  is  an  abridged  reprint  of  "  Times  Whirligig,"  with  all  the  preliminary 
matter  suppressed,  and  the  58  stanzas  of  the  original  reduced  to  25. 

WILLIS,  R.  Mount  Tabor.  Or  Private  Exercises  of  a  Penitent 
Sinner.  Serving  for  a  daily  Practice  of  the  life  of  Faith,  Reduced  to 
speciall  heads  comprehending  the  chiefe  comforts  and  refreshings  of 
true  Christians  :  Also  Certain  occasionall  Observations  and  Medita- 
tions profitably  applyed.  Written  in  the  time  of  a  voluntary  retrait 
from  secular  affaires.  By  R.  W.  Esquire.  Published  in  the  yeare  of 
his  age  75.  Anno  Dom.  1639.  London,  Printed  by  R.  B.  for  P. 
Stephens  and  C.  Meredith,  at  the  gilded  Lion  in  S.  Paid's  Church-yard. 
1639.    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  5  leaves,  title  on  A  2  ;  B — L  6  in  twelves.     In  prose  and  verse. 


W/L  L  OBIE—  WILMORE.  1 597 

WILLORIE,  orWILLOUGIIBY,  IIknry.  Willobie  his  Avisa. 
Or  The  true  Picture  of  a  modest  Maid,  and  of  a  chast  and  constant 
wife.  In  Hexamiter  verse.  The  Hive  argument  whereof,  was  ncucr 
heretofore  published.  Read  the  preface  to  the  Reader  before  you 
enter  farther.  [Quotation  from  Proverbs,  xii.,  4.]  Lnprinted  at  London 
by  lolin  Windet.  1594.    4to.    R. 

*,  4  leaves  ;  A — R  2  in  fours. 

First  edition.  From  Mr.  Bright's  and  Mr.  Corser's  collections.  Four  leaves  at 
the  end  are  deficient,  this  copy  ending  on  Q  2.  The  only  others  known  are  in  the 
British  Museum  and  at  Britwell. 

It  appears  from  Hadrian  Dorrel's  Epistle  to  the  Reader  that  the  name  AviSA 
was  formed  of  the  initial  letters  of  the  posy  or  motto,  Amans.  vxor.  inuiolata. 
semper,  amaiida, 

WILLOUGHBY  OF  Parham.  An  Exact  Relation  of  the  most 
Execrable  attempts  of  John  Allin,  committed  on  the  Person  of  His 
Excellency  Francis  Lord  Willoughby  of  Parham,  Captain  General  of 
the  Continent  of  Guiana,  and  of  all  the  Caribby-Islands,  and  our  Lord 
Proprietor.  London,  Printed  for  Richard  Loivndcs,  at  the  White  Lion 
in  S.  Pauls  Churchyard  near  the  little  Northdoor.  1665.    4to. 

A — B  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  occupied  by  the  Imprimatur. 

WILLYMAT,  William.  A  Princes  Looking  Glasse,  or  a 
Princes  Direction,  very  requisite  and  necessarie  for  a  Christian  Prince, 
to  view  and  behold  himselfe  in,  containing  sundrie,  wise,  learned, 
godly,  and  Princely  precepts  and  instructions,  e.xcerpted  and  chosen 
out  of  that  most  Christian,  and  vertuous  BASL4IK0N  AiiPON,  or  his 
Maiesties  instructions  to  his  dearest  sonne  Henrie  the  Prince,  and 
translated  into  Latin  and  English  verse  (his  Maiesties  consent  and 
approbation  beeing  first  had  and  obtained  thereunto)  for  the  more 
delight  and  pleasure  of  the  said  Prince  now  in  his  young  yeares  :  By 
William  Willymat.  [Two  quotations.]  Printed  by  John  Legat,  Printer  to 
the  Vniversitie  of  Cambridge.  1603.  And  are  to  be  sold  in  Pauls  Church- 
yard at  the  signe  of  tlie  Crowne  by  Simon  IVatcrson.    4to.    G.  M. 

A— M  in  fours.     Portraits  of  James  I.  and  Prince  Henry  are  inserted. 
Dedicated  to  Prince  Henry  in  a  prolix  epistle  from  "  Ruskington  in  Lincohi- 
shiere  this  6.  of  December,  1603." 

WILMORE,  John.  The  Case  of  John  Wilmore  Truly  and  Im- 
partially Related :  Or,  A  Looking-Glass  for  all  Merchants  and 
Planters  that  are  concerned  in  the  American  Plantations.  London, 
Printed  for  Edw.   Powell  at  the    White   Sioan   in  Little  Brittain, 

MDCLXXXIL    Folio. 

A — E,  2  leaves  each. 
911 


1598  WILSON. 

WILSON,  Christopher. 

Almightie  God  I  pray,  his  Holy  spirite  to  send  : 

The  iust  mannes  hart  stedfast  to  stay,  and  wicked  Hues  to  mend. 
[At  the  end.]    Finis  (qd.)  Christopher  Wilson.     [Colophon.]  Imprmtcd 
at  London  ivitlwut  Aldersgate,  in  little  Britaine :  by  Alex.  Lacy.    The. 
l6.  of  A  iio^ust.  I  $66.    A  Broadside.    Black  letter. 

The  first  letters  of  the  lines  read  acrostically  fonn  the  words  :  "Tempvs  Edax 
Rervm.  Time  Bryngethe  Al  Thynges  To  An  Ende.     Qvod  Christopher  Wilson." 

Reprinted  in  "Anc.  Ballads,"  &c.  1S67.  Wilson's  lines  occupy  only  one  column 
of  the  sheet ;  the  other  contains  nine  anonymous  stanzas  of  six  lines  each. 

WILSON,  George.  The  Commendation  of  Cockes,  and  Cock- 
fighting.  Wherein  is  shewed,  that  Cocke-fighting  was  before  the 
comming  of  Christ.  London,  Printed  for  Henrie  Tomes,  and  are  to  be 
sold  at  his  Shop  oner  against  Graies  Inne  gate  in  Holburne,  1607.  4to. 
Black  Letter.    O.  M. 

A — D  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Henry  Bedingfield,  in  the  county  of  Norfolk,  Knight,  in  an 
epistle  in  which  Wilson  states  that  this  treatise  had  been  long  since  promised  by 
him  to  friends  in  London,  Boston,  and  elsewhere.  It  appears  that  Sir  Henry  was 
a  fellow-lover  of  the  sport.  On  the  title  is  a  cut  of  two  cocks  preparing  to  close. 
Mr.  Collier  ("  Bibl.  Cat.,"  ii.,  528)  states  that  "  Wilson's  tract  was  several  times 
reprinted."   According  to  Lowndes  the  latest  edition  was  in  1655. 

WILSON,  John.  Cheerfull  Ayres  or  Ballads  First  composed  for 
one  single  Voice  and  since  set  for  three  Voices  by  John  Wilson 
Dr.  in  Mvsick  Professor  of  the  same  in  the  Vniversity  of  Oxford.  Ox- 
ford. Printed  by  W.  Hall,  for  Ric.  Davis.  Anno  Dom.  M  DC  LX. 
Oblong  4to. 

A — U  1  in  fours.     The  Cantus  Primus. 

It  is  stated  in  the  Preface  that,  this  being  the  first  essay  in  the  way  of  printing 
music  at  Oxford,  certain  mistakes  (for  which  there  is  a  table  of  errata)  had  been 
committed  by  the  printer,  chiefly  in  "omission  of  Moods."  It  also  informs  us 
that  this  part  was  intended  to  form  "  a  compleate  Book  of  it  selfe,  carrying  the 
principall  Ayre  to  Sing  alone  with  a  through  Base."  The  two  other  parts  were 
Cantus  Secundus  and  Bassus.  Some  of  the  music  had  been  composed  by  others, 
but  the  whole  is  here  reset  by  Wilson. 

WILSON,  Lea.  Bibles,  Testaments,  Psalms,  and  other  Books  of 
the  Holy  Scriptures  in  English  In  the  collection  of  Lea  Wilson 
Esq^    London  MDCCCXLV.     4to. 

Printed  at  the  cost  of  Mr.  Lea  Wilson  for  presents  only. 

WILSON,  Thomas.  The  Rule  of  Reason,  contaynyng  the  Arte 
of  Logike.  Set  forth  in  English,  and  newly  corrected  by  Thomas 
Wilson.  Anno  Do)nini.  M.D.LXvii.  Rlcns.  Feb.  Imprinted  at  London 
by  I.  Kingston.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A— Aa  i  in  fours.  This  is  the  earliest  regular  treatise  on  logic  in  the  English 
language.     The  first  edition  was  in  1551,  Svo. 


WILSON— WINCHESTER.  1599 

A  passage  quoted  by  Wilson  from  Udall's  "Ralph  Roister  Doistcr"  is  the 
earliest  indication  of  the  existence  of  that  drama,  so  nearly  lost  to  us,  and  fixes  ap- 
proximately the  date  of  its  composition,  if  not  the  original  performance  of  it,  as 
anterior  to  1551— at  least  fifteen  years  before  it  was  entered  at  Stationers'  Hall. 

WILSON,  Thomas.  The  Arte  of  Rhetorike,  for  the  vse  of  all 
suche  as  are  studious  of  Eloquence,  sette  foorthe  in  Englishe,  by- 
Thomas  Wilson.  1553.  And  now  ncwlic  sette  forth  againe,  with  a 
Prologue  to  the  Reader.  1567.  Imprinted  at  London,  by  I  lion  King- 
ston. 1584.    4to.  Black  letter. 

A — Q  6  in  eights. 

In  the  prologue  there  is  a  curious  passage,  where  he  spe.aks  of  his  escape  from 
the  Inquisition,  adding,  "  If  others  neuer  get  more  by  bookes  then  I  have  done  :  it 
were  better  be  a  Carter,  then  a  Scholar,  for  worldly  profite." 

A  Discourse  vppon  vsurye,  by  waye  of  Dialogue  and  ora- 

cions,  for  the  better  varictye,  and  more  delite  of  all  those,  that  shall 
reade  thys  treatise.  By  Thomas  Wilson,  doctor  of  the  Ciuill  lawes, 
one  of  the  Masters  of  her  maicsties  honorable  courte  of  requestes. 
Scene  and  allowed  ....  1572.  [Colophon.]  Londini  in  yEdibus 
Rychardi  Tottclli.  1572.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.     BL.  M. 

C,  8  leaves  ;  CC,  8  leaves  ;  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — Dd  4  in  eights. 

WILY  BEGUILED.  A  Pleasant  Comedie,  Called  Wily  Begvildc. 
The  chiefe  Actors  are  these  :  A  Poore  Scholler,  Rich  foole,  and  a 
Knave  at  a  shift.  London,  Printed  for  Thomas  Knight,  and  are  to  be 
sold  by  Edward  Blackniore,  and  Francis  Conies.     1635.    4to. 

A — K  2  in  fours. 

[WIMPHELING,  Jacob.]  De  fidecocubinaru  in  sacerdotes.  Ouestio 
accessoria  causa  ioci  et  urbanitatis  inquodlibeto  Heydelbergensi  dcter- 
minata,  quibusdam  nouis  additionibus  illustrata. — De  fide  meretricum 
in  suos  amatores.    \Sine  nlld  notd.]    4to.     Woodcuts. 

This  edition  consists  of  twenty-four  leaves,  with  thirty-five  lines  to  the  page. 

WINCHELSEA.  A  Narrative  of  The  Success  of  the  Voyage  of 
the  Right  Honourable  Heneage  Finch,  Earl  of  Winchelsca  .  .  .  Lord 
of  the  Royal  mannor  of  Wye,  Lord  Lieutenant  of  the  County  of 
Kent  .  .  .  His  Majesties  Ambassadour  extraordinary  to  the  High  & 
Mighty  Prince  Sultan  Mamet  Han,  Empcrour  of  Turkey,  from  Smyrna 
to  Constantinople ;  His  Arrival  there,  the  manner  of  his  Entertain- 
ment and  Audience  with  the  Grand  Vizier  and  Grand  Seignior.  London, 
Printed  by  I.  R.  in  t lie  year.  1661,    4to.    G.  M. 

A — B  in  fours,  B  4  blank. 

WINCHESTER,  William  Paulet,  Marquis  of.  The  Lord 
Marqves  Idlenes :  Conteining  manifold  matters  of  acceptable  deuise  ; 
as  sage  sentences,  prudent  precepts,  morall  examples,  sweete  simili- 


1 600  WINE—  WIR ING  S. 

tudes,  proper  comparisons, .  .  .  No  lesse  pleasant  to  peruse,  than  pro- 
fitable to  practise : .  .  .  .  [Quotations.]  Imprinted  at  London  by  Arnold 
Hatfield.    1586.    4to.    R.  M. 

A— N  3  in  fours,  besides  the  title  and  two  leaves  of  the  preliminaries,  sig.  A  com- 
mencing on  the  4th  leaf 

Dedicated  to  Queen  Elizabeth. 

WINE,  Beere,  Ale,  and  Tobacco.    Contending  for  Superiority.   A 

Dialogue.    The  Second  Edition,  much  enlarged.    Horat.    Siccis  omnia 

dura  Dcus  proposuit.    Printed  at  London  by  T.  C.  for  lohn  Groiie,  and 

are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  at  Furniuals  Inne  Gate  in  Holborne,  1630.   4to, 

A — D  2  in  fours,  the  first  leaf  blank. 

WINGAR,  Henry.  Light  Extinguish'd.  A  Poem  Intitul'd  the 
Sight's  Retreat :  or.  The  True  Light  at  last  made  Manifest.  By 
H.W.Gent.    Printed  for  tJie  AutJwr.    \Abo\t  \6%o?}^    8vo. 

A — C  in  fours. 

This  copy  is  dedicated  to  the  Countess  of  Dalkeith,  but  the  volume  has  the 
appearance  of  having  been  printed  with  the  name  of  the  patron  or  patroness  left 
blank,  with  a  view  to  subsequent  insertion,  as  it  is  in  a  different  type  and  ink.  Such 
was  the  case  with  Anderson's  "  Court  Convert"  and  some  of  Jordan's  publications. 
Wingar  speaks  of  his  work  as  the  "offspring  of  an  obscure  Muse,"  and  of  himself 
as  "altogether  benighted,  and  his  Candle  extinguish'd";  and  he  humbly  takes 
leave,  upon  a  just  consideration  of  Lady  Dalkeith's  character,  to  light  his  candle 
again  at  her  illuminating  altar. 

A  copy  is  in  the  British  Musum  ;  but  no  other,  besides  the  present,  has  been 
noticed. 

WINKELMANN,  Hans  Just.  Der  Americanischen  Neuer  Welt 
Beschreibung Gedruckt  zn  Oldenburg.    1664.    Oblong  4to. 

Woodcuts. 

Engraved  title,  printed  title,  folding  woodcut  portrait  of  the  author,  3  leaves. 
Preface,  Dedication,  &c.,  6  leaves  ;  pp.  1-228  ;  Table,  6  leaves. 

WINSHEMIUS,  Vitus.  Oratio  de  Stvdiis  lingvae  Graecae. 
Orationes  dvae  de  Stvdiis  Linguae  Ebraicas.  OuKstio  dc  Fato  Stoico. 
Vitebergce.    Anno  M.D.XLIX.    Sm.  8vo.    bl.  m. 

A — E  4  in  eights. 

WINTER  DREAM.    A  Winter  Dreame. 

Qucz  me  suspension  insomnia  rerutn  ?    Virg. 

Scepe  futnrariun  prasagia  Somnia  Rcriim. 
Printed  Anno  Domini   QuaiiDO  ReX  AngLorvM  vecti    victltabat 
Captlvus.    1649.    4':o-    ^-  M- 
A — C  3  in  fours. 

A  curious  tract,  attributed  sometimes  to  Wither.  On  the  last  page,  the  writer 
alludes  to  Sir  John  Mandevile,  and  Coriat  the  traveller. 

WIRINGS,  Heinrich.    Stain  vnd  Wapenbuchll  Mit  allerhandt 


WIRRE—WISE.  1601 

offnen  vnd  burgerlichc  helm  vnd  schiltcn,  auch  abbildiig  viler  vilcr- 
handt  nation  drachtc  vnd  kleidug  auch  sust  kurtzwciligcn  bossen  :  alle 
adels  personen  studeten  goltschmite  vnd  sunst  guten  gesellc  zugcfallG 
in  druck  verfcrtigt.  Wie  sie  erstlich  vom  Hcinrich  Wirings  in  kupfifcr 
gestochc  angcfangen,  vnd  volgentz  vom  Joh:  Hogenb.  volledct  wordcn 
sint.  Zii  Colle  trtickts  Joh.  Bussemechcr.  10.  y.]  Sm.  oblong  8vo. 
BR.  M. 

The  above  title  is  engraved  on  copper  within  an  ornamental  border.  It  is  followed 
by  a  second  title  in  Latin,  also  within  an  engraved  border,  which  reads, "  Monumenta 
Amicorum  Libellus  elegans,  omnium  statuum  galeas  et  clypeos  varios  pra;figurans, 
quos  pro  sua  quisque  conditione  adimplere  deinceps  paruo  labore  valebit  :  inteiectis 
sparsim  facetis  nonnullis  et  elegantibus  diuersoru  habituum  iconibus.  Nunc  primum 
in  gratiam  generosK  nobilitatis  ac  studiosx  Juuentutis  in  lucem  editus  sculptoris 
Hen.  Wi.  et  Jo.  Hogenbergio.  Impressore  yoaii  Bitsscmachcro."  \s.  ai\  The  work 
consists  in  all  of  forty-five  plates  besides  the  two  engraved  titles.  Seventeen  of  these 
plates  represent  various  subjects,  mostly  satirical  or  humorous  in  their  character,  and 
twenty-eight  are  coats-of-arms  with  scroll-work  round  them,  and  some  of  them  with 
full-length  figures  for  supporters.  There  are  no  numbers  on  any  of  the  plates.  No 
bibliographer  appears  to  have  known  the  book,  and  the  artist  is  mentioned  only  by 
Nagler  as  the  engraver  of  a  single  plate,  of  which  he  says,  •'  Dieses  blatt  ist  sicher 
von  Hieronymus  Wierx,  oder  Copie  nach  demselben  mit  falschem  Namen."  The 
only  other  copy  known  of  the  volume  is  in  the  South  Kensington  Museum,  but  that 
contains  only  twenty-four  plates,  and  has  only  the  German  title. 

WIRRE,  Heinricii.  Ordenliche  Beschreybung  der  Fiirstlichen 
Hochzeyt,   die  da    gehalten    ist   worden,  durch  den    Durchleutigen 

Herrn   Wilhelm   Pfaltzgraf  beim    Rheyn Mit   dem 

Hochgebornen  Frawlin  Renatta,  geborne  Hertzogin  ausz  Luttringc, 

den  21.  tag  Februarii,  des  1568.  Jars  in Mtinchcn in 

teiitsche  Carmina  gestellt  durch  Hainrichen  Wirre Getruckt 

zu  Augspurg,  durch  Plulipp  Vlhart.    1568. 

[Colophon]  Philipp  Vlhart  ist  Er  genandt, 

Die  Triickerey  jm  wo  I  erbeandt. 
Die  Er  von  sein  Vattcr  hat  glert, 
Dem  discs  Wappen  zu  gcliert. 

Getruckt  in  der  Kaiserlichen  Reic/is  Statt  Augspurg,  durch  Philipp  VI- 
Jiartyinder  Kirchgassen,bey  Sant  Vlrich.  Anno M.D.LXVIII.  Folio. 
A — E  in  fours  ;  F,  2  leaves  ;  G,  a  single  folding  leaf  bearing  on  the  recto  a  large 
woodcut  of  a  shield  of  arms  ;  no  sig.  H  ;  I — P  in  sixes  ;  Q — V,  2  leaves  each  ;  X,  5 
leaves  :  a  large  folding  woodcut  in  four  sheets,  headed  "  In  sollicher  gestallt,  wie 
hie  vor  augen  ist  der  ....  Herr  Ferdinand  Ertzhertzog  zu  Osterreich,  zu  Miin- 
chen  auff  der  Hochzeyt  auff  die  Bann  gezogen."  Followed  by  a  single  leaf  with 
colophon  and  printer's  arms. 

WISE  CHILD.  The  Wyse  Chylde  and  the  Emperor  Adrian  :  A 
Dialogue  resembling  that  of  Salomon  and  Saturn.  From  the  unique 
Edition  printed  by  Wynkyn  de  Worde.  Edited  by  J.  O.  Halliwcll. 
London,  1S60.    Sm.  8vo. 


i602  IVISHARTT—WIT. 

Thirty  copies  printed.  The  original  edition  is  in  the  British  Museum.  The 
piece  has  also  been  reproduced  in  facsimile  by  Ashbee. 

WISHARTT,  William.  Immanuel :  Or  the  Mistery  of  God, 
Manifested  in  the  Flesh.  Sung  in  the  scverall  Cantoes  of  Urania, 
Astrsa,  Melpomene.  By  Will.  Wishartt  B.D.  Scoto-Britan.  and 
Preacher  in  both  Kingdoms.  London,  Printed  by  R.  Hodgkinsonne  for 
Philip  Ncvill  dwelling  in  Ivie-Lane.    1642.    4to. 

A — Ff  in  fours. 

Dedicated  in  verse  to  Charles  I.  On  the  inside  of  the  gilt  vellum  cover  of  this 
copy,  formerly  Mr.  CorseHs,  is  the  autograph  of  Anne  King,  Bishop  King's  sister. 

WIT.  Wit  Restor'd  In  severall  Select  Poems  Not  formerly  pub- 
lish't.  London,  Printed  for  R.  Pollard,  N.  Brooks,  and  T.  Dring,  and 
are  to  be  sold  at  the  Old  Exchange,  and  in  Fleetstreet.  1658.  Sm.  8vo. 
Tlie  edges  nncnt.    G.  M. 

B — O  7  in  eights,  and  the  title-page,  but  L  has  9  leaves.  On  the  extra  leaf  is 
printed  at  the  bottom  "  Place  this  before  the  Innovation  of  Vlysses  and  Penelope." 

At  p.  139  occurs,  "  The  Innovation  of  Penelope  and  Vlysses,  A  Mock-Poem. 
By  J.  [ames]  S.  [mith] ,"  with  a  new  title,  and  some  complimentary  verses  by  Mas- 
singer  and  others.  This  volume  is  probably  unique  as  an  uncut  copy.  From  the 
library  of  Mr.  J.  D.  Lewis. 

Wit    and   Drollery,   Joviall    Poems :    Corrected   and    much 

amended,  with  Additions.  By  Sir  J.[ohn]  M.[ennis,]  Ja.[mes]  S.[mith,] 
Sir  W.[illiam]  D.[avenant,]  J.  D.  [John  Donne  i"]  and  the  most  refined 
Wits  of  the  Age.  Ut  Nectar  Ingeninni.  London,  Printed  for  Nath.  Brook 
at  the  Angel  in  Cornhil,  1661.    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — T  in  eights  ;  pp.  97-104  are  repeated,  with  additional  matter. 

This  is  not  a  reprint  of  any  single  work  of  earlier  date,  but  appears  to  be  made 
up  from  two  or  three  sources.     It  contains  a  portion  of  "  Wit  Restor'd,"  1658. 

The  present  copy,  in  the  original  binding,  with  the  Sheldon  book-plate  and  the 
crest  stamped  on  each  side  of  the  cover,  has  Ritson's  autograph,  and  also  that 
of  Mr.  E.  V.  Utterson.  It  once  belonged  to  Mr.  Allen,  whose  curious  Ubrary  was 
dispersed  in  1799. 

Wit  and  Drollery.    Jovial  Poems.    Corrected  and  Amended, 

with  New  Additions.  Ut  Nectar  Ingeniuni.  London,  Printed  for  Oba- 
diah  Blagrave,  at  the  Bear  in  St.  Pauls  Chiirch-Yard,  1682.   8vo. 

Title,  preface,  &c.,  4  leaves  ;  A — Y  in  eights. 

This  is  altogether  a  different  book  from  the  one  printed  under  the  same  title  in 
i66r.  Though  the  preface  opens  with  the  same  words,  the  contents  are  not  at 
all  the  same. 

Wit  A-La-Mode  :  or.  Every  Man  in  his  Humour.    Wherein 


is  contain'd  A  great  Variety  of  diverting  Jests,  Bulls,  Bon  Mots, .  .  .  . 

To  which  is  added  The  Agreeable   Medley London.     IJJS- 

8vo. 

B— I  in  sixes,  and  the  frontispiece. 


WIT— WITS    THEATRE.  1603 

WIT.  Wits  Academy:  Or,  The  Muses  Delight.  Being  the  Newest 
Academy  of  Complements.  Consisting  of  merry  Dialogues  Upon 
various  occasions,  composed  of  Mirth,  Wit,  and  Eloquence.  As  also 
Divers  sorts  of  Letters  upon  several  Occasions,  both  Merry  and  Jocose 
....  With  a  Perfect  Collection  of  all  the  Newest  and  Best  Songs  and 
Catches,  that  are  and  have  been  in  Request  at  Court,  and  both  the 
Theatres.  The  Eighth  Edition,  with  Additions.  London:  Pi-inted for 
W.  Richardson  for  Ebcn.  Tracy  at  the  Three  Bibles  on  London-Bridge, 
1 70 1.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — M  10  in  twelves,  the  first  leaf  of  A  occupied  by  a  woodcut  frontispiece. 

This  is  an  entirely  distinct  work  from  one  published  this  year  under  a  very 
similar  title.  The  present  volume  seems  to  be  hitherto  undescribed  ;  the  most 
interesting  portion  of  it  is  the  collection  of  songs,  many  of  which  were  written  in 
the  preceding  century. 

The  Wit's  Magazine,  or  Library  of  Momus.    London,  1784-5. 

2  vols.    Svo.    Plates. 

From  Mr.  G.  Daniel's  collection. 

WIT.  Witt's  Recreations.  Selected  from  the  finest  Fancies  of 
Moderne  Muses.  With  A  Thousand  out  Landish  Proverbs  :  London  : 
Printed  for  HumpJi:  Blunden  at  the  Castle  in  Corn-hill.   1640.  Sm.  Svo. 

Engraved  and  printed  titles  preceded  by  a  leaf  with  verses  headed  "  The  Frontis- 
peice  discovered,"  3  leaves  ;  The  Stationer  to  the  Reader,  in  verse,  i  leaf ;  B — M 
in  eights,  m  4  blank  ;  Aa — Cc  in  eights  ;  "  The  Proverbs,"  A — E  4  in  eights,  E  4 
blank. 

The  Proverbs  have  a  separate  title  :  "  Ovtlandish  Proverbs  selected  by  Mr. 
G.  H.    Lo7idon,  Printed  by  T.  P.  for  Humphrey  Blunden.  .  .  .  1640." 

Witts    Recreations  refined  &  Augmented,  with   Ingenious 


Conceites  for  the  wittie,  And  Merrie  Medicines  for  the  Melancholic. 
[This  engraved  title  is  followed  by  a  printed  one,  as  follows  :]  Recrea- 
tion, for  Ingenious  Head-Pieces  :  or,  a  Pleasant  Grove  for  their  Wits 
to  walk  in. 

{Epigrams,  700. 
Epitaphs,  200. 
Fancies,  a  Number. 
Fantasticks,  Abundance. 
With  their  Addition,  Multiplication  and  Division.     Mart.     Non  cniqtie 
datnr  habere  nasum.     London,  Printed  by  S.  Simmons,  and  are  to  be 
sold  by  Thomas  H elder,  at  the  Angel  in  Little  Britain,  1667.     Sm.  Svo. 
Woodcjits. 

A — D  in  eights,  including  the  engraved  and  printed  titles.     Narcissus  Luttrell's 
copy,  with  his  autograph  on  the  flyleaf  :  "  Nar.  Luttrell  His  Book  167I." 

WIT'S  THEATRE.     Wits  Theater  of  the  little  World.    Brene 
iter  ad  bonum  per  excmpla,  longuni  per  precepta.    Printed  by  I.  R.  for 


i604  WITCHCRAFT— WITCHES. 

N  L.  &  are  to  be  sold  at  the  West  doorc  of  Paides.     1599.    Sm.  8vo. 
R.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — Mm  4  in  eights,  Mm  4  having  the  errata. 

Following  the  title  is  an  epistle  or  address,  "  To  my  most  esteemed  and  ap- 
proued  louing  friend,  Maister  I.  B.  I  wish  all  happiness,"  from  which  it  appears 
that  the  writer,  [Nicholas  Ling  the  Stationer,]  was  encouraged  by  John  Boden- 
ham  to  undertake  this  volume  of  extracts  and  precepts  as  a  sort  of  sequel  to 
"  Wit's  Commonwealth."  Herbert  speaks  of  the  book  as  having  been  originally 
published  in  1598  ;  but  he  does  not  appear  to  have  seen  any  copy  of  it  himself 
with  that  date,  and  it  is  not  described  by  any  other  bibliographer.  Neither  on  the 
title  nor  in  the  introductory  matter  is  there  any  indication  of  an  earher  issue  than 
this  of  1599. 

WITCHCRAFT.  Notable  Relacion  del  castigo  exemplar  que  se 
hizo  en  la  ciudad  de  Valladolid  a  vna  hechizera  :  La  qual  auia  mas  de 
treynta  afios  que  vsaua  el  dicho  officio,  y  como  fue  causa  de  algunas 
muertes  con  sus  hechizos  :  y  como  la  justiciaron  a  doze  de  lunio  de. 
1607.  en  Valladolid,  auiendo  fido  presa  y  castigada  otras  tres  vezes. 
Con  vn  Romance  de  las  condiciones  de  algunas  mugeres.  Con  licencia 
impressa  eii  Salamanca  en  casa  dc  Antonia  Ramirez  viuda,  Aiio.  1607. 
4to. 

Four  leaves.  Beneath  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  an  "  Auto  de  Fe."  The  piece  is 
in  verse. 

Obra  nueua  que  trata  de  la  prision  y  castigo  que  se  dio  en  la 


ciudad  de  Cordoua,  en  este  presente  aiio  de  mil  y  seyscientos  y  nueue, 
a  cinco  hechizeras,  attento  sus  perjudiciales  delictos  de  hechizos, 
embustes,  y  embelecos :  por  lo  qual  dcclara  la  historia  los  nombres 
de  todas  ellas,  y  los  males  que  vsaron,  y  el  castigo  que  se  les  dio 
enla  dicha  ciudad  en  este  presente  aiio.  Impressa  con  licencia  en  Cor- 
doua en  casa  de  Francisco  de  Cea.  [1609.]  Lleua  vna  let r ilia  de  Merlin 
al  cabo,y  vnjugiiete  de  vna  dama  melindrosa.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  metre. 

WITCHES.  The  Lawes  against  Witches  and  Conivration.  And 
Some  brief  Notes  and  Observations  for  the  Discovery  of  Witches. 
Being  very  usefuU  for  these  Times,  wherein  the  Devil  reignes  and 
prevailes  over  the  soules  of  poor  Creatures,  in  drawing  them  to  that 
crying  Sin  of  Witch-Craft.  Also,  the  Confession  of  Mother  Lakeland, 
who  was  arraigned  and  condemned  for  a  Witch,  at  Ipswich  in  Suffolke. 
Published  by  Authority.    London,  Printed  for  R.  W.    1645.   4to. 

Four  leaves. 

A  Tryal  of  Witches  at  the  Assizes  held  at  Bury  St.  Edmvnds 


for  the  County  of  Suffolk  ;  on  the  Tenth  day  of  IVIarch,  1664.    Before 
Sir  Matthew  Hale  K'  then  Lord  Chief  Baron  of  His  Majesties  Court 


WITCHES— WITH  A  LS.  1605 

of  Exchequer.  Taken  by  a  Person  then  attending  the  Court.  London, 
Printed  for   William  Slircwsbcry  at  tlic  Bible  in  Duck-Lane.    1682. 

8vo. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — E  6  in  eights. 

WITCHES.  A  True  and  Impartial  Relation  of  the  Informations 
against  Three  Witches,  viz.  Temperance  Lloyd,  Mary  Trembles,  and 
Susanna  Edwards.  Who  were  Indicted,  Arraigned,  and  Convicted  at 
the  Assizes  holden  for  the  County  of  Devon  at  the  Castle  of  Exon, 
Aug.  14,  1682.  With  their  several  Confessions,  taken  before  Thomas 
Gift  Mayor  and  John  Davie  Alderman  of  Biddiford  in  the  said  County, 
where  they  were  Inhabitants.  As  also  their  Speeches,  Confessions, 
and  Behaviour  at  the  time  and  place  of  Execution  on  the  Twenty  fifth 
of  the  said  Month.  London  :  Printed  by  Freeman  Collins,  and  are  to 
be  sold  by  T.  Benskin  in  St.  Brides  Church-yard,  and  C.  Yea  Bookseller  itt 
Exon.    1682.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — F  in  fours. 

The  Preface  to  the  Reader  is  very  curious.  It  speaks  of  the  account  as  written 
by  "  a  faithful  and  able  Hand,"  but  the  name  of  the  author  is  not  given.  It  seems 
to  have  been  considered  that  the  narrative  would  prove  of  additional  interest  from 
the  fact  that  "we  have  had  no  Conviction  or  Execution  of  any  Witches  for  many 
years  past."  Those  who  do  not  believe  in  witches  are  invited  to  consult  King 
Alfred,  Holy  Writ,  King  James's  "  Demonology,"  and  "  Sadducismus  Trium- 
phatus." 

The  Tryal,  Condemnation,  and  Execution  of  Three  Witches, 

viz.  Temperance  Floyd,  Mary  Floyd,  and  Svsanna  Edwards.  Who 
were  Arraigned  at  Exeter  on  the  i8th  of  August,   1682.    And  being 

prov'd  Guilty  of  Witch-Craft,  were  Condem'd  to  be  Hang'd 

Also,  how  they  squeezed  one  Hannah  Thomas  to  death  in  their  Arms; 
How  they  also  caused  several  ships  to  be  cast  away  .  .  .  With  many 
Wonderful  Things,  worth  your  Reading.  Printed  for  J.  Deacon,  at  the 
sign  of  the  Rainbow,  a  little  beyond  St.  Andrews  Church,  in  Holborn. 
1 68 1.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    An  undescribed  chapbook  version. 

WITHALS,  John.  A  shorte  Dictionarie  for  yonge  begynners. 
Gathered  of  good  authours,  specially  of  Columel,  Grapald,  and  Plini. 
Anno  M.D.LIII.  [Colophon.]  Thus  endeth  this  Dictionarie,  verie 
necessarie  for  children  :  Compiled  by  J.  Whithals.  Imprinted  at  Lon- 
don in  Fletestrcte  in  the  Hovse  of  Thomas  Berthelct.  Cum  priuilcgio  ad 
imprimendum  solum.    4to.   Black  letter.    R. 

A — Z  in  fours  ;  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  only  copy  known.  See  the  privately  printed  "Book  of  Prefaces,"  1S74, 
p.  13,  where  the  Prologue  is  given  entire.  It  is  addressed  to  .Sir  Thomas  Chaloner, 
and  it  is  quite  clear  from  the  terms  of  it,  that  the  book  was  then  printed  for  the  first 

9  I 


i6o6  WITHER. 

time,  and  that  the  editions  spoken  of  by  Ames  and  Herbert  as  printed  by  Caxton 
and  Wynkyn  de  Worde,  never  existed.  Till  this  copy  was  discovered  in  1870,  the 
edition  was  altogether  uncertain,  though  it  is  doubtfully  mentioned  by  Herbert  at 
p.  460  ;  and  at  p.  465  he  speaks  of  it  as  printed  by  Berthelet  in  1559,  and  says  that 
a  copy  was  in  Dr.  Lort's  library. 

WITHER,    George.    Abvses  Stript,  and  Whipt.     Or   Satirical 
Essayes.    By  George  Wither,    Diuided  into  two  Bookes  .... 
Despise  not  this  what  ere  I  seeme  in  showe, 
A  foole  to  purpose  speaks  somtime  you  know. 
At  Loudon,  Printed  by  G.  Eld,  for  Francis  Bvrton,  and  are  to  he  solde 
at  Ids  shop  in  Pauls  Church-yard,  at  the  sigiie  of  the  Green-Dragon. 
161 3.    Sm.  8vo.    O.  M. 

A,  8  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  a,  4  leaves  ;  B — V  in  eights,  the  last  two  leaves 
blank. 

From  the  collection  of  Mr.  J.  D.  Lewis.  The  copy  was  bound  from  the  original 
sheep  cover,  and  has  many  uncut  leaves. 

It  is  said  that  as  many  as  seven  editions  of  this  work,  for  which  the  author  was 
committed  to  the  Marshalsea  prison,  were  issued  in  1613. 

It  has  been  thought  that  there  may  have  been  an  edition  of  these  Essays  and 
Satires  prior  to  1613,  and  one  of  161 1  has  been  hypothetically  cited.  The  book  was 
not,  however,  registered  at  Stationers'  Hall  till  i6th  January-,  161 3-14. 

Abuses  Stript,  and  Whipt :  or  Satyrical  Essayes.  By  George 

Wither.  Divided  into  two  Bookes  ....  London,  Printed  by  Hwnfrey 
Lownes,  for  Francis  Burton,  .  .  .  161 5.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title,  dedication,  &c.,  6  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B — V  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 
A  portrait  of  the  author,  by  W.  HoUe,  is  inserted. 

A  Satyre  :  Dedicated  to  His  Most  Excellent  Maiestie.     By 

George  Wither,  Gentleman.  Rebus  in  aduersis  Crescit.  London: 
Printed  for  George  Norton,  and  arc  to  be  solde  at  the  Signe  of  the  red- 
Bull,  neere  Tcniple-barre.    1614.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — F  in  eights,  the  first  and  second  leaves  marked  only  A  and  A  2,  the  last 
leaf  blank.     Printed  with  a  type  border  at  the  top  and  bottom  of  each  page. 
First  edition. 

A  Satyre  : London  :  Printed  by  Thomas  Snodham 

for  George  Norton,  and  are  to  he  sold  at  the  signe  of  the  red-Bull,  neere 

Temple-barre.    161 5.    Sm.  8vo. 

A  paginary  reprint  of  the  first  edition,  with  the  same  borders. 

The  Shepheards  Hunting  :  Being  Certaine  Eglogues  written 


during  the  time  of  the  Authors  Imprisonment  in  the  Marshalsey.  By 
George  Wyther,  Gentleman.  London,  Printed  by  IV.  White  for  George 
Norton,  .  .  .   161 5.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — H  in  eights,  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

The  last  si.\  printed  leaves  arc  occupied  by  "A  Postscript  to  the  Reader,"  from 


WITHER.  1607 

which  we  learn  that  the  title  of  the  volume  was  conferred  on  it  by  the  publisher, 
that  it  would  have  come  out  sooner  had  not  Withcr's  reluctance  to  go  to  press 
retarded  it  ;  and  further,  that  the  poet  had  dispersed  among  his  friends  certain 
other  lighter  productions,  of  which  he  did  not  desire  to  witness  the  appearance  in 
print. 

This  volume  is  bound  up  with  "Abuses  Stript  and  Whipt,"  1615,  and  "A  Satyre," 
1615.    In  the  old  vellum  cover. 

WITHER,  George.  A  Preparation  to  tlic  Psalter:  by  Geo: 
Wyther.  Anno  16 19.  [Colophon.]  London  Imprinted  by  Nicholas  Okes. 
16 ig.    Folio.    R.  M. 

In  verse  and  prose. 

A — M  in  sixes  ;  N,  8  leaves,  not  including  an  engraved  title  by  Delaram. 

Dedicated  to  Prince  Charles  in  an  Epistle,  where  the  writer  describes  this  as  a 
"  Frontispice  to  a  greater  building  " — his  version  of  the  Psalms,  not  printed  till 
1632.  In  the  Preface,  which  follows,  he  announces  the  work  which  he  printed  in 
1620,  and  which  is  described  below. 

At  the  end  occur — i.  "A  Soliloquy  :  or  the  Authors  Preparation  of  himselfe 
vnto  the  Studie  and  Vse  of  the  Psalter ;"  2.  "A  Hymne  of  Thankesgiving  after  Sick- 
nesse  .  .  .  ." 

It  has  been  said  that  a  portrait  of  Wither  by  Delaram  should  accompany  this 
volume,  but  it  is  doubtful  whether  that  print  really  belongs  to  it. 

The  Workes  of  Master  George  Wither,  of  Lincolns-Inne, 


Gentleman.  Containing  Satyrs.  Epigrams.  Eclogues.  Sonnets,  and 
Poems.  Whereunto  is  annexed  a  Paraphrase  on  the  Creed  and  the 
Lords  Prayer.  London,  Printed  by  lohn  Beak  for  Thomas  Walkley, 
and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  at  the  Eagle  and  Child  in  Brittanes  Burse. 
1620.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — M  4  in  eights,  title  on  A  2,  and  a  leaf  in  L  blank  ;  N— Z  4  in  eights,  T  4 
blank. 

Exercises  vpon  the  First  Psalme.    Both  in  Prose  and  Verse. 


By  Geo:  Wither,  Of  the  Societie  of  Lincolnes  Inne.  But  his  delight  is 
in  the  Law  of  the  Lord,  &c.  Psal.  I,  vers.  2.  London,  Printed  by  Ediv. 
Griffin,  for  lohn  Harrison,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  in  Pater 
Noster  Row,  at  the  signe  of  the  Golden  Vnicorne.    1620.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — M  in  eights,  the  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

Dedicated  "To  the  Noble  Young  Gentle-man  S'  lohn  Smith,  Knight  ;  onely 
Sonne  to  the  honourable  Knight,  S'  Thomas  Smith,  Gouernour  of  the  East-India 
Company,  &c."  Here  Wither  acknowledges  the  kindnesses  which  he  had  received 
at  the  hands  of  Sir  Thomas  Smith  ;  and  in  the  Notice  to  the  Reader  he  observes  : 
"  I  know,  that  many  of  you,  e're  this  time,  expected  the  first  Decade  of  the  Psalmes, 
according  to  the  promise,  in  my  Preparation.  And  therefore,  when  you  behold 
here,  but  a  tenth  part  of  it,  I  shall  be  thought  to  come  too  much  short  of  what  I 
intended  .  .  ."  He  adds  further  on  :  "  Discouragements,  and  hinderances,  I  have 
had  many,  since  I  began  to  meddle  with  the  Psalmes." 

This  work  was  registered  by  John  Harison,  30  March,  1620,  as  '■  The  way  to 
Blessednes,  Discouered  in  a  sixfold  exercise,  lic.'' 


i6o8  WITHER. 

WITHER,  George.  Wither's  Motto.  Nee  habeo,  nee  Careo,  nee 
Curo.    London  printed  for  lolin  Marriott  i62\.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — F  iv.  in  eights  ;  besides  the  title-page,  engraved  by  Elstracke,  but  including 
"The  Explanation  of  the  Embleme"  which  faces  the  title. 

Wither  himself  informs  us  that  as  many  as  30,000  copies  of  this  tract  were 
printed  within  a  few  months. 

The  following  is  the  form  of  registration  at  Stationers'  Hall  (Arber,  iv.,  56), 
showing  that  the  poem,  as  it  was  originally  composed,  was  considered  in  some 
points  unsuitable  for  publication  : — 

"  16°  Junij  [1621.] 
"John  Marriott 
John  Grismond 

Entred  for  their  copie  vnder  the  hands  of  Master 
Tauernor  and  Master  Lownes,  wardens,  A  booke  called, 
"  Withers  his  Motto,"  to  be  printed  as  it  is  corrected  by 

Master  Tauernor vi""." 

Taylor's  "  Motto  "  is  next  registered  without  a  word  of  comment  or  restriction. 

Faire-Virtve,  the  Mistresse  of  Phil'arete.    Written  by  Him- 


selfe.  [Quotation  from  Catullus.]  London,  Printed  for  loIin  Gris- 
mond.   1622.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — P  in  eights,  first  leaf  blank. 

The  Stationer,  in  his  Notice  to  the  Reader,  states  that  this  was  "one  of  the 
Author's  first  Poems,  and  was  composed  many  years  agone,  and  vnknown  gotten 
out  of  his  custodie  by  an  acquaintance  of  his."  It  was  annexed  to  the  edition  of 
the  "  Juveniha"  in  1633,  together  with  the  "  Miscellany  of  Epigrams,"  which  occupy 
the  last  two  sheets. 

"  Fair  Virtue  "  is  mentioned  in  "Abuses  Stript  and  Whipt,"  1613,  and  was  pro- 
bably Wither's  earliest  work,  though  not  printed  till  1622. 

Ivvenilia.    A  Colleetion  of  those  Poemes  which  were  hereto- 


fore imprinted,  and  written  by  George  Wither.  London  printed  for 
John  Budge  in  Paul's  Church  yard  at  y  signe  of  the  green  dragon.  1622. 
Sm.  8vo. 

Engraved  title  by  Elstracke  and  "  To  the  Reader  vpon  these  Poemes,"  2  leaves  ; 
A — Qq  6  in  eights,  A  i  and  A  6  blank. 

This  first  collected  edition  of  Wither's  early  works  includes,  "Abuses  Stript 
and  Whipt,"  with  the  "  Scourge  and  Epigrams,"  "  Prince  Henries  Obsequies," 
"  Epithalamia,"  "  A  Satyre,"  "  The  Shepheards  Hunting,"  and  "  Fidelia."  A  new 
title-page,  dated  1626,  was  added  to  the  unsold  copies. 

IvveniHa.    A  Collection  of  those  Poemes  which  were  hereto- 


fore imprinted  and  written  by  George  Wither.  London  printed  for 
Robert  Allott,  at  the  beare  in  Panics  Churchyard.  1 63 3.    Sm.  Svo. 

Engraved  and  printed  titles,  2  leaves  ;  A — Z  5  in  twelves  ;  [a  new  title]  Withers 
Motto.  .  .  .  London  printed  for  lohn  Grismond  1633  ;  A  (not  including  engraved 
title) — M  6  in  twelves  ;  M  6  blank. 

Third  edition  of  the  "  Juveniha,"  with  the  "  Motto  "  and  "  Philaretc  "  annexed, 
which  were  not  in  the  issues  of  1622  and  1626.  The  present  copy,  which  has  a 
good  deal  of  bibliographical  matter  in  MS.  at  the  beginning,  relative  to  Wither 
and  his  writings,  is  bound  in  two  volumes,  and  has  a  printed  title,  besides  the 


WITHER.  1609 

ordinary  engraved  one.  The  former,  which  is  of  the  rarest  occurrence,  reads  as 
follows  :  "The  Poems  of  Geo  :  Wither:  Heretofore  Imprinted,  and  now  com- 
prised in  two  Volumes,  are  these  :  In  the  first  volume,  Abuses  Stript  and  Whipt, 
The  Scourge.  Prince  Henries  Obsequies.  A  Satyre  to  King  lames.  An  Kpi- 
thalamia.  The  Shepheards  Hunting.  Fideha.  Withers  Motto.  The  Mistresse 
of  Philarete,  with  other  Fragments."  But  no  second  volume  of  a  collection  of  the 
poet's  miscellaneous  works  is  known  ;  the  title  given  above  was  probably  cancelled. 

WITHER,  George.  The  Hymnes  and  Songs  of  the  Chvrch. 
Diuided  into  two  parts.  The  first  Part  comprehends  the  canonicall 
Hymnes,  and  svch  parcels  of  Holy  Scripture,  as  may  properly  be 
sung,  with  some  other  ancient  Songs  and  Creeds.  The  Second  Part 
consists  of  Spirituall  Songs,  appropriated  to  the  seuerall  Times  and 
Occasions  obserucable  in  the  Church  of  England.  Translated  and  com- 
posed, by  G.  W.  London,  Printed  by  the  Assignes  of  George  Wither. 
1623.    Ciun  Priiiilcgio  Regis  Regali.    4to.    Black  letter.    I5L.  M. 

A — I  2  in  fours.     Dedicated  to  James  I. 

Wither  procured  a  patent  for  the  sole  publication  of  this  work,  and  copies  were 
printed  in  a  variety  of  sizes,  folio,  quarto,  octavo,  duodecimo.  The  hymns  and 
songs  are  accompanied  by  the  music. 

The  Hymnes  and  Songs  of  the  Chvrch.    Diuided  into  two 


Parts London,  Printed  by  the  Assignes  of  George  Wither.    1623. 

Cnm  Privilcgio  Regis  Regali.    8vo. 

A — O  in  eights.    With  the  music. 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  George  Chalmers  and  Mr.  Corser. 

Britain's    Remembrancer   Containing  A   Narration    of   the 


Plagve  lately  past ;  A  Declaration  of  the  Mischiefs  present ;  And  a 
Prediction  of  Ivdgments  to  come ;  (If  Repentance  prevent  not.)  It  is 
Dedicated  (for  the  glory  of  God)  to  Posteritie  ;  and,  to  These  Times 

(if  they  please)  by  Geo :  Wither Reade  all,  or  censure  not. 

.  .  .  Imprinted  for  Great  Britainc,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  loJin  Grismond 
in  Ivie-Lane.  cIo  hcxxviii.    Sm.  8vo. 

Engraved  frontispiece  and  explanation,  2  leaves  ;  A — Z  in  twelves  ;  &,  12  leaves  ; 
*,  2  leaves.     In  verse. 

The  Psalmes  of  David  Translated  Into  Lyrick-Verse,  accord- 


ing to  the  scope,  of  the  Original.  And  Illustrated,  with  a  Short  Argu- 
ment, and  a  breife  Prayer,  or  Meditation ;  before  &  after,  every 
Psalme.  By  George  Wither.  Imprinted  In  the  Neatherlands  By 
Cornells  Gen-its  van  Breughel.  M.DC.XXXII.    Sm.  sqr.  8vo.    bl.  m. 

A — V  6  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  Elizabeth,  Queen  of  Bohemia.  This  translation  was  completed 
about  1625,  but  had  been  commenced  some  time  before,  and  continued  at  the 
request  of  James  I. 

This  is  considered  one  of  the  rarest  of  Wither's  productions.  Before  his  death, 
the  poet  prepared  a  revised  copy,  which  still  e.xists  in  MS. 


i6io  WITHER. 

WITHER,  George.  A  Collection  of  Emblemes,  Ancient  and 
Moderne :  Quickened  With  Metrical!  Illvstrations,  both  Morall  and 
Divine :  And  disposed  into  Lotteries,  That  Instruction,  and  Good 
Counsell,  may  bee  furthered  by  an  Honest  and  Pleasant  Recreation. 
By  George  Wither.  The  First  Booke.  London,  Printed  by  A.  M. 
for  Richard  Royston,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  Ivie-Lane. 
MDCXXXV.    Folio.   Plates.    R.  M. 

Frontispiece  by  W.  Marshall,  and  metrical  "  Preposition  "  to  the  same,  2  leaves  ; 
printed  title,  i  leaf;  "A  Writ  of  Prevention,"  i  leaf;  Dedication  to  Charles  I.,  2 
leaves  ;  A — S  in  fours,  except  K,  which  has  only  two  leaves  ;  (*),  2  leaves  ;  no 
sig.  T  ;  V — Dd  in  fours  ;  (*),  2  leaves  ;  Ee — Oo  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  occupied  by 
a  woodcut  of  a  dial. 

The  second,  third,  and  fourth  Books  of  the  Emblems  have  each  a  separate  title, 
but  the  signatures  are  continuous.  This  fine  and  large  copy  (iii  x  7^)  was 
obtained  in  Holland  many  years  ago,  and  was  then  in  the  old  vellum  cover.  It 
wants,  as  usual,  the  pointers  to  the  dial. 

The  plates  were  originally  engraved  for  the  Emblems  of  RoUenhagius  printed  at 
Cologne  and  Arnheim  in  1613-16,  which  is  described  in  the  catalogue.  The  plates 
having  been  purchased  by  a  London  publisher,  Wither  was  employed  to  write 
illustrative  verses  to  them. 

Halelviah   or,    Britans  Second  Remembrancer,  bringing  to 


Remembrance  (in  praisefull  and  Pcenitentiall  Hymns,  Spirituall 
Songs,  and  Morall-Odes)  Meditations,  advancing  the  glory  of  God,  in 
the  practise  of  Pietie  and  Vertue  ;  and  applyed  to  easie  Tunes,  to  be 
Sung  in  Families,  &c.  Composed  in  a  three-fold  Volume,  by  George 
Wither.  The  first,  contains  Hymns  Occasionall.  The  Second, 
Hymns-Temporary.  The  third.  Hymns  Personall.  That  all  Persons, 
according  to  their  Degrees,  and  Qualities,  may  at  all  Times,  and  upon 
all  eminent  Occasions,  be  remembred  to  praise  God ;  and  to  be  mind- 
full  of  their  Duties. 

One  woe  is  past,  the  second,  passing  on  ; 
Beware  the  third,  if  this,  in  vain  be  gone. 

London,  Printed  by  I.  L.  for  Andrew  Hebb,  at  the  Bell  in  Paids  Church- 
yard. 1641.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — Y  in  twelves,  the  last  two  leaves  blank. 

Dedicated  to  the  Parliament.  This  is  one  of  the  rarest  of  Wither's  publications. 
Not  more  than  three  perfect  copies  are  known.  The  present,  which  is  probably  by 
far  the  finest,  was  formerly  in  the  Bridgwater  collection,  and  has  the  arms  of  that 
family  on  the  sides.  At  page  408  the  four  concluding  lines  of  Hymn  XXVH.  have 
been  struck  through  with  a  pen  by  the  first  Earl  of  Bridgwater,  who,  in  allusion  to 
the  death  of  his  wife,  has  substituted  the  following  in  his  own  handwriting  :— 

"  And  let  not  me  ere  wed  againe, 
But  in  a  single  state  remaine  ; 
Lord,  to  thine  honour  let  it  be, 
And  satisfaction  unto  me." 


WITHER.  1611 

On  the  title-page  and  at  the  end  occurs  tlie  autograph  of  T.  Park,  and  on  the 
flyleaf  is  this  note  in  his  hand  ;  "  This  singular  copy  of  a  liook  most  singularly 
rare,  must  have  been  huddled  into  some  large  lot  at  the  Duke  of  Bridgwater's  sale 
in  Aug.  1800.  I  purchased  it  about  three  months  afterward  at  a  book-shop  near 
Holborn.  The  only  second  copy  I  have  traced  was  obtained  from  Herbert  Ijy  Mr. 
A.  Dalrymple,  who  says  that '  many  fine  things  are  interspersed  in  it,  perhaps  no- 
where to  be  surpassed.'  See  his  '  Extracts,'  1785,  p.  15."  It  is  added  in  pencil  : 
"  Mr.  Heber  since  bot.  a  copy  at  Brand's  sale." 

The  copy  mentioned  as  belonging  to  Heber,  and  which  is  now  in  the  collection 
of  T.  Gaisford,  Esq.,  has  an  old  M.S.  note  on  the  flyleaf  which  states  it  to  have  been 
a  presentation  copy  from  the  author.  Dalrymple's  copy  is  now  in  the  British 
Museum.  The  volume  here  described  was  sold  as  a  Bridgwater  duplicate,  but 
there  is  no  copy  now  in  that  collection. 

WITHER,  George.    Campo-Miisa?  Or  The  Field-Musings  of  Cap- 
tain George  Wither,  touching  his  Military  Ingagement  for  the  King  and 
ParHament,  the  Justnesse  of  the  same,  and  the  present  distractions  of 
these  Islands.    London,  Printed  by  R.  Austin,  atid  A.  Coe.    1643.    ^^o. 
A — E  in  fours,  including  the  frontispiece. 

Letters  of  Advice  :  Touching  The  Choice  of  Knights  and 


Burgesses.    [Colophon.]     Printed  by  R.\obcrt'\  A.[usiin.]   1644.    4to. 
T/ie  edges  unctit. 

A — B  in  fours. 

Printed  without  a  title-page.    There  are  a  few  verses  at  the  end. 

The  Two  Incomparable  Generalissimos  of  the  World,  with 


their  Armies  briefly  described  and  embattailed,  visibly  and  invisibly 
opposing  each  other.  London  Printed  for  lames  Butler.  1644.  A 
Broadside. 

In  verse,  printed  in  two  colours,  and  subscribed  G.  W. 

Vox  Pacifica  :  A  voice  tending  to  The  Pacification  of  God's 


wrath  ;  and  offering  those  Propositions,  or  Conditions,  by  the  accepta- 
tion, and  performance  whereof,  in  some  good  measure,  a  firme  and 
continuing  Peace  may  be  obtained.  It  is  directed  to  the  King,  Parlia- 
ments, and  People  of  these  Islands  :  By  Geo.  Wither  Esquire,  (a 
Commander  in  this  War)  heretofore  their  unheeded  Remembrancer 
of  Plagues  and  Deliverances  past ;  and  their  timely  Forewarner  of 
the  Judgments  now  come.  He  hath  disposed  it  into  six  Books,  or 
Canto's,  whereof  foure  onely  are  contained  in  this  Volume  ;  and  the 
other  deferred  to  be  hereafter  published,  as  there  shall  be  Cause. 
London,  Printed  by  Robert  Austin,  in  the  Old-Baily.  cli.  loc  xlv.    8vo. 

A,  6  leaves ;  B — O  4  in  eights.  In  verse.  Dedicated  "  To  the  King,  Parlia- 
ments, and  People,  of  These  British  Isles."  On  the  back  of  the  printed  title  occurs 
"  The  meaning  of  the  Frontispice,"  in  verse,  which  is  followed  by  a  woodcut  map 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland. 


i6i2  WITHER. 

WITHER,  George.  Mr.  Wither  His  Prophesie  of  our  present 
Calamity,  and  (except  we  repent)  future  misery.  Written  by  him  in 
the  Yeare  1628.  {_No  title-page,  place,  printer's  name,  or  dateJ]  [About 
1645.]    4to. 

A — B  in  fours. 

This  is  a  reprint  from  "  Britain's  Remembrancer,"  1628. 

The  Doubtfull  Almanack.    Or,  A  very  suspitious  presage  of 


great  Calamities  yet  to  ensue.    By  G.  Wither.  [1646.]    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

Printed  without  any  title,  printer's  name,  place,  and  date.     It  was  a  spurious 
piece,  disowned  by  Wither  in  the  tract  called  his  "  Disclaimer,"  4to.,  1646. 

What  Peace  to  the  wicked  }  Or,  An  Expostulatorie  Answer 


to  A  Derisorie  Question,  Lately  made  concerning  Peace.    By  a  Free- 
man, though  a  Prisoner. 

The  Author  spares  his  Name ;  not,  that  he  dares  not 
To  let  you  know  it ;  but,  because  he  cares  not. 
Printed  in  the  Yeer  1646.    4to. 
Four  leaves.     In  verse. 

This  is  one  of  the  pieces  which,  according  to  Wither,  became  so  scarce  that  he 
was  led  to  give  extracts  from  it  in  his  "  Ecchoes  from  the  Sixth  Trumpet."  From 
Mr.  Bright's  collection. 

To  the  most  honourable  the  Lords  and  Commons  in  Parlia- 


ment assembled  :   The  humble  Declaration  and   Petition   of  Major 
Geo.  Wither.    [1647.]    A  Broadside. 

Without  printer's  name,  date,  or  place. 

Major  Wither's  Disclaimer :  Being  A  Disavowmcnt  of  a  late 


Paper,  entituled  Tlie  Doubtfull  Almanack.  Lately  Published  In  the 
name  of  the  said  Major  Wither.  [Colophon.]  Printed  by  R.  Austin 
1647.    4to. 

Four  leaves,  with  a  page  of  verse  at  the  end.    Without  any  regular  title. 

Amygdala   Britannica,   Almonds    for  Parrets.    A  Dish    of 


Stone-Fruit,  partly  shel'd,  and  partly  unshel'd  ;  which  (If  crack'd, 
pick'd,  and  well  digested)  May  be  wholsome  against  those  Epidemick 
Distempers  of  the  Brain,  now  predominant ;  and  prevent  some  Malig- 
nant Diseases,  likely  to  ensue.  Composed,  heretofore,  by  a  well- 
knowne  Moderne  Author  ;  and,  now  published  according,  to  a  Copie, 
found  written  with  liis  own  Hand.  Qui  bene  latuit,  bene  vixit. 
[Quotation  from  St.  Matthew,  xiii.,  &c.]  Anno  ch  he  xlvii.  4to. 
R.  M. 

In  verse. 

A — B  2  in  fours.     Printed  in  two  columns. 


WITHER.  1613 

WITHER,  George.  Prosopopaeia  Britannica :  Britans  Genius, 
Or,  Good-Angel,  personated  ;  Reasoning  and  advising,  touching  the 
Games  now  playing,  and  the  Adventures  now  at  Hazard  in  these 
Islands  ;  and  presaging,  also,  some  future  things,  not  unlikely  to  come 
to  passe.  Discovered  by  Terra:-Filius  (a  well-knowne  Lover  of  the 
Publicke-Peace)  when  the  begetting  of  a  Nationall-Quarrell  was  first 
feared.  Expressed  in  two  Sections  or  Readings  .  .  .  Lotidon,  Printed 
by  Robert  Austin.    1648.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — H  3  in  eights.     In  verse. 

The  British  Appeals,  with  God's  Mercifull  Replies,  on  the 


behalf  of  the  Commonwealth  of  England.  Contained  in  a  brief  Com- 
memorative Poem,  Composed  for  a  Memoriall  of  those  many  signall 
Mercies,  lately  vouchsafed  to  this  Republike ;  especially,  for  those 
deliverances  upon  the  Appeals  of  the  Parliaments,  and  Royall  Forces 
at  Naseby ;  of  the  English  and  Scottish  Armies  near  Dunbar  in 
Scotland,  and  for  the  late  Surrender  of  Edinburgh  Castle,  &c.  Humbly 
offered  the  30.  of  January,  1650,  as  his  mite  of  thankfulnesse,  toward 
the  publike  Thanksgiving,  lately  enjoyned  by  an  Act  of  Parliament 
to  be  celebrated  that  Day.  By  Geo.  Wither,  Esquire.  Febr.  i,  1650. 
Let  this  Poem,  entituled  the  British  Appeals,  &c.  be  speedily  printed. 
William  Lenthall,  Speaker.  London:  Printed  by  R\obert'\  A.[ustin.] 
16$ I.    8vo. 

A — E  4  in  eights.     From  the  collections  of  Mr.  Jolley  and  Mr.  Corser. 
There  is  a  copy  with  a  different  title-page  in  the  British  Museum. 

The  Dark  Lantern,  Containing  A  dim  Discoverie,  in  Riddles, 


Parables,  and  Semi-Riddles,  intermixt  with  Cautions,  Remembrances 
and  Prasdictions,  as  they  were  promiscuously  and  immethodically 
represented  to  their  Author,  in  his  Solitary  Musings,  the  third  of 
November,  1652,  about  Midnight.  Whereunto  is  annexed,  A  Poem, 
concerning  a  Perpetuall  Parliament.  By  Geo.  Wither  Esquire.  London, 
Printed  by  R.  Austin,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Richard  Lozvndes  at  the 
white  Lion  in  Pauls  Church-yard,  neer  the  little  North  Door.  1653. 
8vo.    G.  M. 

A — E  in  eights,  but  an  extra  leaf  of  preface  between  A — A  2.     In  verse. 

Vaticinium  Causuale.     A  Rapture  occasioned   by  the  late 


Miraculous  Deliverance  of  His  Highnesse  the  Lord  Protector,  from  a 
Desperate  Danger.  With,  a  Noverint  Universi,  in  the  Close.  London, 
1655.    4to. 

Eight  leaves. 

Epistolium-Vagum-Prosa-Metricum  :  or.  An  Epistle  at  Ran- 


dome,  in  Prose  and  Metre.    To  be  delivered,  to  all  whom  it  may  con- 

9  K 


1 6 14  WITHER. 

cern  ;  but,  was  first  intended  only,  for  two  or  three  of  the  Authors 
Friends  in  Authority  (if  he  hath  so  many  left)  to  mediate  in  Parlia- 
ment the  Redress  of  his  destructive  Grievances  ;  in  the  expression 
whereof  many  Particulars  of  Publick  Concernment  are  interwoven. 

When  Justice  raigns,  the  land  doth  flourish  ; 

When,  'tis  unthroned,  the  People  perish. 
The  Author,  is  George  Wither  Esq ;  Who,  in  writing  this  Address, 
being  transported  beyond  the  sense  of  his  Personal  Sufferings,  dis- 
covers by  a  Poetical  Rapture,  that  whereon  the  peace  of  these  Nations 
depends  ....  Printed  at  London,  in  tlw  Year  1659.    4*^°-    ^-  ^• 

A — D  in  fours. 

WITHER,  George.  Salt  upon  Salt :  Made  out  of  certain  In- 
genious Verses  and  the  Death  of  His  Highness  Ensuing.  By  which 
Contemplative  Object  Occasion  is  taken  to  offer  to  Consideration  the 
probable  neer  approaching  of  greater  Storms,  and  more  sad  Conse- 
quences.   By  Geo.  Wither,  Esquire. 

Salt  seasons  all  things,  saving  onely  those 
Which  must  feed  Fishes,  Maggots,  Dogs  and  Crows. 
Read  it,  and  heed  it.  For  you  need  it ; 
And  so  God  speed  it. 
London,  Printed  for  L.  Chapman,  at  the  Croivn  in  Popes-Head- Alley. 
1659.    8vo. 

A — I  in  fours.     In  verse. 

The  last  three  leaves  are  occupied  by  "  A  bitter-sweet  Passion  of  the  Soul, 
expressed  in  a  Hymne  to  God.     By  the  same  Author." 

Fides-Anglicana.    Or,  A  Plea  for  the  Publick-Faith  Of  these 

Nations,  Lately  pawned,  forfeited  and  violated  by  some  of  their  former 
Trustees,  to  the  rendring  it  as  infamous,  as  Fides-Punica  was  hereto- 
fore. .  .  .  London,  Printed  in  the  year  3IDCLX,    8vo.    G.  M. 

A — M  in  fours. 

At  the  end  is  a  Hst  of  the  author's  works  in  print  and  MS.  drawn  up  by  himself. 
It  was  of  considerable  use,  with  that  found  in  his  "  Ecchoes  from  the  Sixth  Trumpet," 
in  forming  Park's  catalogue  contributed  to  Brydges'  "  British  Bibliographer." 

Speculum  Speculativum  :  or,  a  Considering-Glass ;  Being  an 

inspection  Into  the  present  and  late  sad  Condition  Of  these  Nations ; 
With  some  Cautional  Expressions  made  thereupon,  by  George  Wither, 
Immediately  after  His  Majesties  Restauration  :  To  preserve  in  himself 
and  others  a  Christian  Obedience  to  God's  various  Dispensations. 
Hereby  also  are  some  Glimmerings  discovered  Of  what  will  probably 
ensue  hereafter  ....  London,  written  June  XUL  MDCLX.  and 
there  Imprinted  the  same  year.   8vo. 

In  verse.     A — L  in  eights. 

There  were  three  impressions  the  same  year. 


WITHER.  1615 

WITHER,  George.  A  Triple  Paradox :  Affixed  to  a  Covnter- 
Mure  Raised  against  the  Furious  Batteries  of  Restraint,  Slander  and 
Poverty,  The  three  Grand  Engines  of  The  World,  the  Flesh  and  the 
Devil.  By  Major  George  Wither.  Who,  now  beleaguered  by  their 
Forces,  throws  out  unto  them  this  Defiance.  The  said  Paradox  main- 
tains these  Particulars,  That  Confinement  is  more  safe  then  Liberty, 
Slander  more  advantageous  than  Praise,  Poverty  more  profitable  than 
Riches.  Nttsqiiaiii,  non  potest  esse  virtiiti  locus. — Seneca.  London, 
Printed  for  the  Author.    1661.    8vo. 

A — K  in  fours.     In  verse. 

An  Improvement  of  Imprisonment,  Disgrace,  Poverty,  into 


Real  Freedom;  Honest  Reputation;  Perdurable  Riches;  Evidenced  in 
a  few  Crums  &  Scraps  Lately  found  in  a  Prisoners-Basket  at  Newgate  ; 
And  Saved  together,  by  a  Visitant  of  Oppressed  Prisoners,  for  the 
refreshing  of  himself  and  those  who  are  either  in  a  worse  Prison,  or 
(who    loathing   the   dainties   of  the   Flesh)   hunger    and    thirst    after 

Righteousness By  George  Wither.     London,  Printed  in  the 

Year,  1661.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — Q  3  in  fours.     In  verse. 

Verses  Intended  to  the  King's  Majesty,  by  Major  George 


Wither,  Whilst  he  was  Prisoner  in  Newgate :  Which  being  found 
Written  with  his  own  Hand,  among  his  loose  Papers,  since  his  Com- 
mitment close  Prisoner  to  the  Tower,  Are  now  Published,  as  pertinent 
both  to  his  Majesty,  and  to  Him.    London,  Printed  in  tite  year,  1662. 

Sm.  8vo. 

Eight  leaves,  the  first  and  last  blank. 

A  Proclamation  in  the  Name  of  the  King  of  Kings  to  all  the 


Inhabitants  of  the  Isles  of  Great  Brittain  :  And  especially  to  those  that 
have  Hypocritically  pretended  to  Justice,  Mercy,  Honesty  and  Reli- 
gion ;  (as  also  to  them  that  have  lived  in  open  Prophanessand  Impiety) 
summoning  them  to  Repentance,  by  denouncing  God's  Judgements, 
and  declaring  his  Mercy,  offered  in  the  Everlasting  Gospel.  Warrant- 
ably  Proclaimed  and  Preached  by  Geo.  Wither,  though  not  by  any 
Humane  Ordination.  Whereto  are  added  some  Fragments  of  the 
same  Authors,  omitted  in  the  first  Imprinting  of  the  Book,  Intituled, 
Scraps  and  Crums ;  and  a  few  which  were  collected  since  that  Im- 
pression, and  during  his  Imprisonment.  London  Printed  in  the  year, 
1662.    8vo.    R.  M. 

A,  3  leaves  ;  B — I  in  fours. 

The  "Proclamation"  concludes  on  D  verso,  and  the  rest  of  the  volume  is  occu- 
pied by  the  "  Fragments,"  which  are  entirely  in  verse. 

The  Prisoners  Plea  :  Humbly  Offered  in  a  Remonstrance ; 


i6i6  WITHER. 

With  a  Petition  Annexed,  To  the  Commons  of  England  in  Parliament 
Assembled  ;  By  George  Wither  :  Falsely  charged  to  have  composed  a 
Lybel  against  the  said  Commons,  and  therefore  now  Prisoner  in  New- 
gate. It  containeth  also,  many  Interjections  not  to  be  despised  ;  as 
also  a  Colateral  Corolary,  of  publick  Concernment ;  and  in  particular 
touching  tlie  Blood-Shed,  whereinto  God  is  now  making  Inquisition. 
[Quotation  from  2  Cor.  xii.,  9.  10.]  LondoJi,  Printed  i?i  the  Year,  1662. 
8vo. 

A,  3  leaves  ;  B— H  3  in  fours.     At  the  end  are  eight  lines  of  verse  by  way  of 
epilogue. 

WITHER,  George.  Tuba-Pacifica.  Seasonable  Praecautions, 
whereby  is  sounded  forth  a  Retreat  from  the  War  intended  between 
England  and  the  United-Provinces  of  Lower  Germany.  By  Geo  : 
Wither,  a  Lover  of  Peace,  and  heartily  well-affected  toward  both 
Nations.  NtJitis  Cautela  non  nocet.  [Quotation  from  Matth.  v.  9.] 
AiDio.  1664.  Imprinted  for  the  Author,  and  is  to  be  disposed  of,  rather 
for  Love  then  Money.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — D  in  fours.    In  verse. 

Three  Private  Meditations,  Which  being,  for  the  most  Part,  of 


Publick  Concernment,  are  therefore  Published  by  their  Author,  Geo. 
Wither.  The  First,  is,  a  Private  Thanksgiving,  consisting  of  three 
Hymns,  whereby  God  is  magnified  for  his  Mercy  vouchsafed  in  the 
late  Ingagement  between  the  English  and  the  Dutch,  in  June  1665, 
Composed  after  celebrating  the  Publick  Thanksgiving  commanded  by 
the  King.  The  Second,  is  a  Sacrifice  of  Praise  and  Prayer,  by  him 
offered  to  Almighty  God,  for  His  providential  respect,  to  Him,  his  Wife 
and  Children,  during  his  Imprisonment  in  the  disgraceful  Goal  of 
Newgate,  when  left  destitute  of  all  ordinary  means  of  subsistance,  by 
being  deprived  both  of  his  Estate  and  Liberty.  The  Third,  Intituled 
Nil  Ultra,  is  a  Soliloquium,  wherein  this  Author  expresses  the  impro- 
bability of  an  effectual  proceeding  further,  to  prevent  the  Sins  and 
Plagues  increasing,  by  ought  which  he  can  offer  to  consideration.  Re- 
printed in  the  Year,  1666.    8vo.    R.  M. 

A — F  in  fours. 

Ecchoes  from  the  Sixth  Trumpet,  Reverberated  by  a  Review 


of  Neglected  Remembrances :  Abreviating  Precautions  and  Predic- 
tions heretofore  published  at  several  Times,  upon  sundry  Occasions, 
to  forew^arn  what  the  future  Effects  of  Divine  Justice  would  be,  as  soon 
as  our  Sinnes  were  full  ripe,  if  not  prevented  by  timely  Repentance 
....  Collected  out  of  the  said  Authors  Printed  Books  ....  The 
First  Part.  .  .  .  Imprinted  in  the  Year  Chronogravimically  expressed  in 


WITHER.  1617 

their  Seasonable  Prayer  LorD  haVe  MerCIe  Vpon  Vs.    [1666.]    Sm. 

8va    R.  M. 

A — Ee  in  fours. 

WITHER,  George.  Sighs  for  the  Pitchers  :  Breathed  out  in  a 
Personal  Contribution  to  the  National  Humiliation  the  last  of  May, 
1666.  in  the  Cities  of  London  and  Westminster,  upon  the  near  ap- 
proaching Engagement  then  expected  between  the  English  and  Dutch 
Navies.    1666.    8vo. 

Twenty-six  leaves.  With  a  woodcut  on  the  title  of  two  pitchers,  representing 
England  and  Holland. 

Vox  &  Lacrimse  Anglorum  :    Or,  The   True  English-mens 

Complaints,  to  their  Representatives  in  Parliament.  Humbly  tendred 
to  their  serious  Consideration  at  their  next  sitting.  February  the  6"', 
166^ Prmtcd  in  the  Year  1668.    Sm.  Svo. 

Eight  leaves.    In  verse. 

Vox  et  Lacrima  \sic\  Anglorum  or  The  true  English  mans 

complaint  to  there  Representatiues  in  Parliament 4to. 

Twelve  leaves.    In  verse. 

A  contemporary  MS.  of  the  tract  described  above.  From  Mr.  Pulham's 
collection. 

Fragmenta  Prophetica.    Or,  the  Remains  of  George  Wither, 

Esq  ;  being  A  Collection  of  the  several  Predictions,  dispers'd  through- 
out his  Works.  Some  verified  in  the  Author's  life-time  ;  many  yet 
unfulfiU'd,  the  Accomplishment  whereof  seem  very  probable.  The 
last  Work  of  the  Author,  and  collected  by  his  own  hand  a  little  before 

his  death London,  Printed,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  Teniplc-Barr, 

and  i?i  Bishops-gate-street,  1669.    Sm.  Svo.    O.  M. 

A — Ee  in  fours.     With  a  portrait  of  Wither,  "  ^tat.  su£e  79." 
This  is  a  selection  from  some  of  Wither's  previous  publications.     At  p.  47  he 
mentions  his  "  Motto"  as  printed  in  1618,  but  no  such  edition  is  now  known.     He 
speaks  of  some  of  his  works  as  even  then  difficult  to  procure,  particularly  his  first 
"  Remembrancer,"  1628,  which  is  now  a  common  book. 

Majesty  in  Misery,  Or  an  Imploration  to  the  King  of  Kings  ; 

Written  by  His  late  Majesty  King  Charles  the  First,  in  his  durance  at 
Carisbrook  Castle,  1648.  [Colophon.]  London,  Printed  Anno  Domini 
1 68 1.    Folio. 

A  single  leaf.     In  verse. 

This  small  piece  of  poetry,  although  it  purports,  as  vi'e  see,  to  have  proceeded 
from  the  king's  pen,  is  usually  ascribed  to  Wither.  It  is  inserted  in  the  later 
editions  of  the  "  Eikon  Basilike,"  and  in  the  edition  of  Wither's  Emblems,  Svo., 
1732- 


i6i8  WITHER— WITTY. 

WITHER,  George.  Divine  Potms  (by  way  of  Paraphrase)  on  the 
Ten  Commandments.  Illustrated  with  Twelve  Copper  Plates,  shew- 
ing how  Personal  Punishments  has  been  inflicted  on  the  Transgressors 
of  these  Commandments,  as  is  Recorded  in  the  Holy  Scripture. 
Never  before  printed.  Also  a  Metrical  Paraphrase  upon  the  Creed  and 
the  Lords  Prayer.  Written  by  George  Wither  Esq;  Author  of  Brittains 
Remembrancer.  [Quotation  from  Psal.  cxix.  5.]  London  Printed  by 
T.  S.  And  are  to  be  sold  by  R.  Janeiuay.  .  .  .   1688.    8vo.    R. 

A — I  3  in  eights. 

It  appears  from  the  dedication  of  Wither's  daughter  and  only  surviving  child, 
"  To  all  such  as  have  formerly  been  Friends  to  the  Author,"  that  the  original  plates 
mentioned  in  the  author's  Preface  were  lost,  and  that  others  were  made  for  it  after 
his  death.  A  MS.  note  in  the  copy  here  described  says  that  the  plates  which 
appear  in  the  volume  are  similar  to  those  which  occur  in  a  4to.  tract  by  Jenner, 
called  "  Punishments  inflicted  on  the  breakers  of  the  Ten  Commandments,"  1650. 
The  lady,  who  describes  herself  as  Wither's  only  living  representative,  signs  herself 
"  E.  B."  and  dates  "  From  my  lodgings  at  Mr.  Snowdens  a  Printers,"  in  Great  Carter 
Lane.  The  copies  of  the  present  work  dated  1697  and  1728  are  merely  new  title- 
pages  printed  for  the  unsold  copies  of  the  edition  of  1688. 

WITLING.    The  Witling :  Being  a  Compleat  Collection  Of  the 

most  Celebrated  Conundrums  Now  in  Vogue  Among  People  of  High 

Taste.  London:  Printed  for  W.  Owen,  near  Temple-Bar.  MDCCL.  8vo. 

"The  Witling,"  A— C  in  fours,  and  the  title-page;  "The  Key,"  A — C  in  fours, 

besides  the  title  and  half-title. 

WITTENBERG.  Dye  zaigung  des  hochlobwirdigen  hailigthums 
der  Stifft  kirchen  aller  hailigen  zu  wittenburg.  [Colophon.]  Gcdruckt 
in  der  chiirfnrstlichcn  Stat  in  Wittcnbergk.  Anno  Tansent  funffhundert 
vnd  neiin.   4to.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

a — 1  in  fours. 

This  beautiful  and  rare  volume  contains  118  wood  engravings  by  Lucas  Cranach 
of  the  relics,  reliquaries,  and  treasures  of  the  Church  of  All  Saints  at  Wittenberg. 
On  the  title  is  a  copperplate  engraving  with  Cranach's  monogram  dated  15 10.  It 
contains  two  portraits,  which,  according  to  Bartsch,  vol.  vii.,  p.  276,  represent  Albert 
the  Bold  and  his  son  Henry  the  Pious,  Dukes  of  Saxony,  but  according  to  Passavant, 
vol.  iv.,  p.  6,  Frederick  111.  and  his  brother  John  I.  are  the  persons  represented. 
Neither  Bartsch  nor  Passavant  appears  to  have  been  aware  that  this  engraving 
belonged  to  the  title-page  of  a  book.  Graesse  informs  us  that  three  copies  of  this 
choice  volume  are  known  upon  vellum,  one  at  Berlin,  a  second  at  Munich,  and  a 
third  in  private  hands  in  Silesia. 

WITTY  APOTHEGMS  Delivered  At  Severall  Times,  and  upon 
Severall  Occasions,  By  King  James,  King  Charls,  The  Marquess  of 
Worcester,  Francis  Lord  Bacon,  and  Sir  Thomas  Moore.  Collected 
and  Revived.  Londofi,  Printed  for  Edtvard  Farnhain,  a)id  are  to  be 
sold  at  his  Shop  in  Popes-head  A  llcy  near  Cornhill,  1 65  8.  Sm.  8vo.  R.  M. 
A,  4  leaves,  including  an  engraved  frontispiece  ;  B — H  in  twelves  ;  I,  i  leaf. 


WIZARD—WOLFGANG.  1619 

WIZARD.  The  Wizard  Unvizor'd  :  or,  A  Clear  display  of  the 
Madnesse  of  Judicial  Astrologic.    Printed  i?t  the  Year,  1652.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    In  verse. 

WODROEPHE,  John.  The  Spared  Hovres  of  a  Sovldicr  in  his 
Travels.  Or  the  True  Marrowe  of  the  French  Tongue,  where  in  is 
truely  treated  [by  ordre]  the  Nine  Parts  of  Speech.  Together,  with 
two  rare,  and  excellent  Bookcsof  Dialogues  ....  Added  yet  an  ex- 
cellent Worke,  very  profitable  for  all  the  Ages  of  Man,  called  the 
Springwell  of  Honour  and  Vcrtue  .  .  .  with  many  other  Godly  Songs, 
Sonets,  Theames,  Letters  Missiucs,  and  Sentences  proverbiales  .... 
Imprinie  a  Dort.  Par  Nicolas  Vincentz  pour  George  Waters,  Marchant 
Libraire  .  .  .  Ano,  1623.   4to. 

f ,  6  leaves  ;  A — Vv  in  sixes. 

WOLCOTT,  Roger.  Poetical  Meditations,  being  the  Improve- 
ment of  some  Vacant  Hours.  By  Roger  Wolcott,  Esq.;  with  a  Preface 
by  the  Reverend  Mr.  Bulkley  of  Colchester.  New-London  :  Printed 
and  Sold  by  T.  Green,  1725.    Sm.  Svo.    R.  M. 

a — d  6  in  eights,  including  a  half-title  ;  B — E  in  eights  ;  F — G  2  in  half-sheets. 

A  little  volume  of  extreme  rarity.  The  Preface  by  Bulkley  consists  of  an  elabo- 
rate essay  on  Government,  dated  from  Colchester  [N.E.]  December  24,  1724.  The 
work  itself  opens  with  a  metrical  dedication  by  the  author  to  Mr.  Timothy  Edwards, 
dated  from  Windsor  [N.E.]  January  4,  1722-3.  Pp.  1-18  are  occupied  by  religious 
poems,  but  on  p.  19  occurs,  in  verse:  "A  Brief  Account  of  the  Agency  of  the 
Honourable  John  Winthrop,  Esq.  ;  in  the  Court  of  King  Charles  the  Second,  Anno. 
Dom.  1662.  When  he  obtained  for  the  Colony  of  Connecticut  His  Majesty's  Gra- 
cious Charter."    This  occupies  the  remainder  of  the  volume. 

WOLFFEN,  Caspar.  Kalender  oder  Laaszbiichli  sampt  der 
Schreybtafel,  Massen  vnd  Jarmarckten  vff  das  M.D.  vnd  LXVII.  Jar. 
Gestelt  vff  den  Meridianum  der  vralten  loblichen  statt  Ziirych,  durch 
Caspar  Wolffen  der  Artznyen  Doctor  daselbst.  [Colophon.]  Getruckt 
zil  ZilrycJi  in  der  Froschow,by  Christoffel  Froschozver.  [1567.]    4to. 

Sixteen  leaves. 

This  very  curious  almanac  and  diary  was  quite  unknown  till  the  discovery  of 
this  copy  by  Mr.  C.  J.  Stewart  in  the  covers  of  another  book. 

In  Jocher's  Gelehrte  Lexicon  it  is  stated  that  the  author  was  a  native  of  Zurich 
and,  in  1566,  succeeded  Conrad  Gesner  as  Professor  of  Medicine  in  the  University 
of  that  town.     He  was  also  the  editor  of  several  learned  works. 

WOLFGANG,  S.  Incipit  Vita  diui  Vuolfgangi  praesulis  eximii. 
....  [Colophon.]  Finit  legenda  Sancti  Vuolfgangi  Episcopi  ex  variis 
collcctis.  Una  cum  historia  sua  7iccno  Officio  suo.  Ivipressa  per  vencra- 
biluni  viru  Douiim'i  Joanne  Weisscnburgcr.  In  ducali  ciuitatc  Land- 
shut  ...  1516.    Sm.  Svo.    Woodcuts.    Y.  M. 


i620  WOLFI  US— WOMEN. 

A — I  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

This  volume  contains  fifty-four  woodcuts,  each  of  which  occupies  a  page,  and 
opposite  to  each  is  a  descriptive  account  of  it,  exactly  in  the  manner  of  the  Block- 
books.  It  appears  very  probable  that  there  was  a  Block-book  edition  which  is  now 
lost  An  earlier  edition  is  recorded  by  Panzer,  "  Legenda  S.  Wolfgangi  Episcopi 
Ratisponensis  cum  officio  vesperarum  matutinarum  et  misse  de  eodem.  Impresstim 
in  opido  Burgdorf.  1475.  Folio."  20  leaves.  But  it  is  not  mentioned  whether  it 
has  any  woodcuts,  and  very  little  appears  to  be  known  about  it,  even  the  identity  of 
the  place  of  printing  being  disputed. 

WOLFIUS,   JOH.      Lectionum    memorabilium   et   reconditamm 

centenarii  XVI Lavinga,  Suniptibiis  Autoris,  impressit  Leonh. 

Rcinmichel  .  .  .  Anno  M.DC.    2  vols.    Folio.    Woodcuts. 

WOLFIUS,  J.  C.  Mulierum  Graecarum  quae  oratione  prosae  usse 
sunt,  fragmenta  et  elogia,  Gr.  et  Lat.  curante  J.  C.  Wolfio.  Gottingce. 
iJ2i<^.   2  vols.    4to.   Large  paper.   O.  M. 

WOMEN'S  PETITION.  The  Women's  Petition  against  Coffee. 
Representing  to  publick  consideration  the  grand  inconveniences  accru- 
ing to  their  sex  from  the  excessive  use  of  that  Drying,  Enfeebling 
Liquor.  Presented  to  the  Right  Honourable  the  Keepers  of  the 
Liberty  of  Venus.   By  a  Well-wilier.    London,  Printed  1674.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  Mens  Answer  to  the  Womens  Petition  against  Coffee : 

Vindicating  their  own  Performances  and  the  Vertues  of  their  Liquor 
from  the  undeserved  aspersions  lately  cast  upon  them  in  their  Scan- 
dalous Pamphlet.   London,  Printed  in  the  year  i6y^.   4to. 

Four  leaves. 

WOMEN.  The  Lawes  Resolvtions  of  Womens  Rights  :  Or,  The 
Lawes  Provision  for  Woemen.  A  Methodicall  Collection  of  such  Sta- 
tutes and  Customes,  with  the  Cases,  Opinions,  Arguments  and  points 
of  Learning  in  the  Law,  as  do  properly  concerne  Women  .  .  .  London, 
Printed  by  the  assignes  of  Lohn  More  Esq  ;  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Lohn 
Grove,  at  his  Sliop  mere  tJie  Rowles  in  Chancery -Lane,  over  against  the 
Sixe-Clerkes  Office.    1632.    4to.   Black  letter. 

A,  4  leaves,  title  on  A  2  ;  a,  4  leaves  ;  B— Dd  2  in  eights. 

One  of  the  sections  is  devoted  to  the  consideration  of  the  question  whether,  and 
under  what  circumstances,  "  The  Baron  may  bcate  his  Wife." 

The  Resolution  of  the  Women  of  London  to  the  Parliament. 


Wherein  they  declare  their  hot  zeale  in  sending  their  husbands  to  the 
warres,  in  defence  of  King  and  Parliament,  as  also  the  proceedings  of 
the  King  at  York.  .  .  .  Printed  for  William  Watson.    1642.   4to. 
Four  leaves,  with  a  woodcut  on  the  title. 


WONDERFUL— WOOD.  1621 

WONDERFUL  DELIVERANCE.  The  Wonderful  Deliverance 
at  Sea  Or,  The  miraculous  Preservation  of  several  Persons  belonging 
to  the  Ship  called  William  and  Dorothy,  lately  cast  away  in  a  Voyage 
to  New-Castle.  Who  by  a  most  gracious  Providence  were  kept  alive 
for  the  Space  of  Twelve  Days  and  Nights  without  any  Food,  in  a  Small 
Boat,  on  the  Main  Sea  :  In  all  which  time,  onely  one  Childe  Perished, 
being  Starved  to  Death  with  Cold  and  Hunger,  and  the  rest  were  at 
last  taken  up,  and  carried  into  Holland.  On  the  28th  of  November 
Last.  And  Several  of  them  are  now  safely  arrived  in  England.  Printed 
for  Benjamin  Pierce.    [Adoui  iG^^.]    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  date  of  this  exceedingly  rare  tract  has  been  cut  off  by  the  binder. 

WONDERFULL  STRANGE  NEWES  from  Woodstreet  Counter. 
Yet  not  so  strange  as  true.  Being  proved  by  lamentable  Experience. 
The  Relation  of  which 

Will  make  you  laugh,  'twill  make  you  cry, 
'Twill  make  you  mad,  'twill  make  you  try, 

Many  more  wonderfull  effects.  As  Tom-Tell-troth  can  witnesse 

London,  Printed  for  J.  F.    1642.   4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  prose,  except  a  few  lines  of  verse  at  the  end. 

WOOD,  Anthony  \.  Athena;  and  Fasti  Oxonienses.  A  New 
Edition,  with  additions  and  a  continuation  by  Philip  Bliss.  London 
....  1813-15.    5  vols.    4to.    Large  paper. 

WOOD,  Lambert.  Florvs  Anglicvs  or  An  exact  History  of 
England  from  the  Reign  of  William  the  Conqueror  to  the  Death  of 
Charles  the  I.  The  Third  Edition.  Illustrated  with  the  Lively  Effigies 
of  all  the  Kings  and  Queens  since  the  Conquest.  London,  Printed  for 
Simon  Miller  .  .  .  .  1658.    Svo.    Frontispiece  and  portraits. 

A — R  4  in  eights. 

The  portraits  do  not  occur  in  the  first  edition,  printed  in  1657.  They  are  mostly 
from  the  same  plates  as  those  in  the  series  which  is  described  in  this  catalogue 
under  "  Effigies,"  but  some  of  them  have  been  coarsely  re-engraved,  as  for  example 
that  of  Henry  IV.  The  impressions  are  necessarily  very  inferior  to  those  in  the 
"  Effigies." 

WOOD,  William.  The  Bow-man's  Glory  ;  or,  Archery  Revived. 
Giving  An  Account  of  the  many  signal  Favours  vouchsafed  to  Archers 
and  Archery  by  those  Renowned  Monarchs  King  Henry  VIII.  James, 
and  Charles  I.  As  by  their  several  gracious  Commissions  here  recited 
may  appear.  With  a  brief  Relation  of  the  Manner  of  the  Archers 
marching  on  several  days  of  Solemnity.    Published  by  William  Wood, 

9L 


1622  WOODFORD— WORTLEY. 

Marshal  to  the  Regiment  of  Archers.    London,  Printed  by  S.  R.  and 
are  to  be  sold  by  Edward  Gough  at  Cow-Cyoss.    1682.    8vo.    R. 

A — F  in  eights. 

At  sig.  D  occurs  a  new  title  :  "A  Remembrance  Of  the  worthy  Show  and  Shoot- 
ing by  the  Duke  of  Shoreditch,  and  his  Associates  the   Worshipful  Citizens 
London,  upon  Tuesday  the  17th  September,  15S3.     Set  forth  according  to  the  truth 
thereof,  to  the  everlasting  Honour  of  the  Game  of  Shooting  in  the  Long  Bow.     By 
W.  M.     London,  Printed  in  the  Year  1682." 

WOODFORD,  Samuel.  A  Paraphrase  upon  the  Psalms  of  David. 
London,  Printed  by  R.  White  for  Octavian  Pidlein,  neer  the  Pump  in 
Little-Brittain,  1667.    4to.    BL.  M.    With  a  Frontispiece. 

A,  4  leaves,  title  on  A  2  ;  a — d  in  fours,  partly  occupied  by  verses  by  T.  Flatman, 
&c. ;  B — Hhh  3  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  George,  Bishop  of  London,  from  Bensted,  Hants. 

WORKE  FOR  CHIMNY-SWEEPERS  :  Or,  A  warning  for  Ta- 
bacconists.  Describing  the  pernicious  vse  of  Tabacco,  no  lesse  plea- 
sant then  profitable  for  all  sorts  to  reade.  Fianiis patria,  Igne  alietio 
Luctdentior.  As  much  to  say,  Better  be  chokt  with  English  hemp, 
then  poisoned  with  Indian  Tabacco.  Lniprinted  at  London  by  T.  Este 
for  Thomas  Biishell,  &  are  to  be  sould  at  the  great  North  dore  of 
Powles.  1602.    4to. 

A — G  in  fours,  first  leaf  blank.     No  sig.  D. 

The  address  to  the  Reader  is  subscribed  "  Philaretes,"  but  the  initials  "J.  H." 
are  at  the  foot  of  some  verses  which  foliow,  and  they  appear  to  be  those  of  the  writer 
of  the  tract.  The  author  of  "  The  Defence  of  Tobacco,"  written  in  reply  to  this 
work,  declares  himself  ignorant  of  the  name  of  his  opponent. 

WORMING  OF  A  MAD  DOG.  The  Worming  of  a  mad  Dogge  : 
or,  a  Soppe  for  Cerbervs  the  laylor  of  Hell.  No  confvtation  bvt  a 
sharpe  Redargution  of  the  bayter  of  Women.  By  Constantia  Munda 
— dux  fcemina  facti.  [Quotation  from  Virg.  ./En.  i.]  London  Printed 
for  Lavrence  Hayes,  and  arc  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  neere  Fleet-bridge, 
oner  against  St.  Brides  Lane.  161 7.    4to. 

A — F  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.     In  prose  and  verse. 

Swetman's  tract,  to  which  this  is  an  answer,  was  printed  first  in  161 5,  and  often 
afterwards. 

WORTLEY,  Sir  Francis.  Characters  and  Elegies.  By  Francis 
Wortley,  Knight  and  Baronet.  Printed  in  the  Yeere,  CLD.  IDC  XL  VL 
4to. 

A — K  2  in  fours,  and  a  leaf  of  errata  which  is  misplaced  between  pp.  32-3. 

This  copy,  in  the  original  gilt  vellum  binding  with  strings,  and  with  the  author's 
autograph  corrections  and  additions,  was  apparently  that  presented  to  Lady 
Abigail  Sherard,  and  came  from  the  library  of  Lord  Harborough.  On  the  flyleaf 
at  the  beginning  is  a  letter  in  the  handwriting  of  Sir  F.  Woitley  to  her  ladyship, 


IVOR  TLB  Y—  WOTTON.  1623 

and  nt  the  end  are  copied,  in  a  different  hand,  two  short  pieces,  entitled  "  Bri- 
tannicus  his  blessing,  and  Britannicus  liis  wellcome,"  printed  together,  at  Cambridge, 
4to.,  1646.  The  letter  has  been  printed  in  "  Notes  and  Queries."  Among  the 
persons  upon  whom  elegies  are  here  found  is  Francis  Quarles  the  poet.  The  author 
appears  to  have  been  much  vexed  at  the  numerous  errors  of  the  press.  At  the  end 
of  the  last  page  he  has  written  "  never  worse  printer",  and  at  the  head  of  the  errata 
he  says,  "  I  shall  desire  the  reader  of  these  Phansies  to  pardon  the  errors  of  the 
Presse  :  I  used  the  help  of  a  meane  Scholar  in  the  copy,  and  being  (as  I  am  a 
prisoner)  could  not  see  the  errors  but  in  the  book." 

WORTLEY,  Sir  Francis.  The  Dvtie  of  Sir  Francis  Wortley ; 
Deliniated,  in  his  piovs  pitty  and  Christian  Commiseration  of  tlie 
Sorrowes  and  Sufferings  of  the  most  vertuous,  yet  unfortunate  Lady 
Eh'sabeth  Queene  of  Bohemia.  Being  a  Dedication  to  Fame  and 
Trvth  :  Prefer'd  to  both  the  Houses  of  Parliament.  By  her  humble 
Servant  and  Honourer,  Sir  Francis  Wortley,  Knight  and  Barronet. 
London,  Printed  by  R.  0\iiIton'\  for  F\i-ancis\  W.\prtley?^  MDCXLI. 
4to. 

A — B  2  in  fours,  last  leaf  blank.     In  verse. 

This  defence  of  Elizabeth  of  Bohemia  was  answered  in  a  tract  printed  the  fol- 
lowing year  at  York. 

A  Declaration  from  York,  By  Sir  Francis  Wortley,  Knight 

and  Baronet.  In  vindication  of  himself  from  divers  aspersions  and 
rumours  concerning  the  drawing  of  his  sword,  and  other  actions^ 
wherein  he  desires  to  give  the  World  satisfaction.  London,  Printed  by 
A.  N.for  Thomas  Warren,  1642.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

This  pamphlet  relates  to  the  desire  of  the  Parliamentary  party  to  remove  the 
large  magazine  of  arms  and  ammunition  stationed  at  Hull,  in  consequence  of  an 
apprehension  that  the  local  gentry  were  too  strongly  royalist  in  their  opinions,  and 
to  the  personal  resistance  said  to  have  been  offered  by  Wortley  to  the  Sheriff  and 
Committee  authorized  by  the  Parliament  to  act  in  the  business. 

WOTTON,  Sir  Henry.  The  Elements  of  Architectvre,  Collected 
by  Henry  Wotton  Knight,  from  the  best  Authors  and  Examples. 
London  Printed  by  lolin  Bill.  M.DC.XXIV.    4to. 

IT,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  A,  2  leaves  ;  A — O  in  fours,  last  two  leaves  blank. 
This  copy  is  in  the  original  vellum  wrapper,  w^ith  the  autogiaph  of  "  George 
Granger,  1652." 

A  Parallell  betweene  Robert  late  Earle  of  Essex,  and  George 


late  Duke  of  Buckingham.    Written  by  Sir  Henry  Wotton,  Knight, 
&c.    Printed  at  London,  1641.    4to. 

A — B  in  fours.    With  woodcut  portraits  of  the  Earl  and  Duke  on  the  title. 
A  portrait  of  Wotton  is  inserted. 


i624  IVOTTON—WREN. 

WOTTON,  Sir  Henry.  A  Short  view  of  the  Life  and  Death  of 
George  Villers,  Duke  of  Buckingham.  Written  by  Sir  Henry  Wotton, 
Knight,  late  Provost  of  Eaton  Colledge.  Loudon.  Printed  for  William 
Sheares.    [1642.]    4to.    G.  M. 

B — E  2  in  fours,  and  the  title.    With  a  portrait  of  the  Duke  of  Buckingham. 

Reliquiae  Wottoniana;.    Or,  A  Collection  of  Lives,   Letters, 


Poems  ;  with  Characters  of  Sundry  Personages  :  And  other  Incom- 
parable Pieces  of  Language  and  Art.  By  The  curious  Pensil  of  the 
Ever  Memorable  Sr.  Henry  Wotton,  K',  late  Provost  of  Eton  Colledg. 
London,  Printed  by  Thomas  Maxej,  for  R.  JMarriot,  G.  Bedel,  and  T, 
Garthwait.  165 1.    Sm.  8vo.     R. 

Portrait  and  title,  2  leaves  ;  dedication  to  Lady  Wotton  and  her  daughters  by 
Izaak  Walton,  I  leaf;  a,  4  leaves ;  b — c  in  twelves.  A  portrait  of  Robert  Devereux, 
Earl  of  Essex.     A — Z  6  in  eights. 

First  edition. 

Letters  of  Sir  Henry  Wotton  to  Sir  Edmund  Bacon.    Lon- 


don, Printed,  by  R.  W.  for  F.  T.  at  the  three  Daggers  in  Fleet-street. 
1661.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  Preface,  2  leaves  ;  A — G  in  twelves,  last  leaf  blank.     First  edition. 

In  an  address  from  the  Printer  to  the  Reader,  we  are  informed  that  these  letters 
were  published  from  the  original  in  Wotton's  autograph.  They  range  in  date  be- 
tween i6u  and  1638,  and  abound  in  historical  and  personal  interest.  At  p.  30 
is  an  account  of  the  Destruction  of  the  Globe  Theatre  by  fire  in  161 3  ;  we  have  at 
p.  140:  "A  Hymne  made  by  H.  W.  in  the  nights  of  a  great  sickness  abroad;" 
and  at  p.  155  occurs  a  curious  account  of  the  attempted  performance  of  Robert 
Tailour's  play,  "  The  Hog  hath  lost  his  Pearl,"  by  sixteen  London  apprentices. 

WOTTON,  W.  Miscellaneous  Discourses  relating  to  the  Traditions 
and  Usages  of  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees  in  our  Blessed  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ's  time.    London.  ...  17 18.    2  vols.    8vo. 

WREN,  Christopher.  Parentalia  :  Or,  Memoirs  of  the  Family 
of  the  Wrens;  viz.  of  Mathew  Bishop  of  Ely,  Christopher  Dean  of 
Windsor,  &c.,  but  chiefly  of  Sir  Christopher  Wren,  late  Surveyor- 
General  of  the  Royal  Buildings.  .  .  Compiled  by  his  Son,  Christopher ; 
now  published  by  his  Grandson,  Stephen  Wren,  Esq.  ;  with  the  Care 
of  Joseph  Ames.  .  .  London:  .  .  .  M DCCL.  Folio.  Portraits  and 
plates.    R.  M. 

WREN,  Matthew,  Bishop  of  Ely.  Wren's  Anatomy.  Dis- 
covering his  notorious  pranks,  and  shamefull  wickednesse  ;  with  some 
of  his  most  lewd  facts  and  infamous  deeds ;  both  in  his  government 
of  Peterhouse  Colledge,  and  Domineering  in  three  Bishopricks,  to  his 
perpetuall  shame  and  infamy.  Printed  in  the  yeare,  that  Wren  ceasd 
to  domitieere,  1641.    4to. 

A— B  in  fours.     With  a  cut  on  ihc  title. 


WREN— WURTEM  BERG.  1625 

WREN,  Matthew,  Bishop  of  Ely.  The  Wrens  Nest  Dcfil'd, 
Or,  Bishop  Wren  Anatomiz'd,  his  Life  and  Actions  dissected  and 
laid  open.  With  a  true  Relation  of  his  persecutions  of  godly  preaching 
Ministers,  their  names  particularly  Set  downe,  and  the  causes  why  they 
were  so  persecuted.  .  .  .  Printed  for  John  Thomas.  1641.  4to. 
Four  leaves.     On  the  title  is  a  large  satirical  woodcut. 

WRIGHT,  J.  Spiritual  Songs  for  Children  :  or,  Poems  on  several 
subjects  and  occasions.  Adorned  with  Cuts.  London :  Printed  for 
H.  Turpin.  .  .  .  \Aboiit  1790.]    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts. 

A — H  3  in  sixes. 

WRIGHT,  Leonard.  A  Display  of  Dvty,  Deckt  with  sage  Say- 
ings,   pithie    Sentences,   and    proper   Similies.     Pleasant   to    Read, 

delightfull  to  Heare,  and  profitable  to  Practise.    By  L.  Wright 

London,  Printed  by  Edward  Griffin  for  George  Pvrsloive.  16 14.  4to. 
Black  letter. 

A — F  in  fours ;  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  to  Thomas  Candish  [Cavendish]  Esquire,  to  whose  father,  as  well  as 
himself,  Wright  professes  himself  indebted.  There  was  an  edition  of  this  tract  in 
1589. 

WRIGHT,  Peter.  R.  P.  Petri  Writi  Sacerdotis  angli,  e  Soc. 
Jesv.  Mors,  qvam  ob  fidem  passvs  est  Londini  XXIX.  Mail.  M.DC.LI. 
[Sine  loco  aut  anno.]    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A— G  iv  in  twelves.  At  the  back  of  the  title  is  a  portrait  of  Father  Wright, 
beautifully  engraved  by  C.  Galle.     The  "  Approbatio  Censorio"  is  dated  165 1. 

WRIGHT,  Thomas.  God's  Revenge  against  Murther  and  Adul- 
tery, Express'd  in  Thirty  several  Tragical  Histories.  Wherein  are 
lively  delineated  the  various  Stratagems,  subtle  Practices  and  deluding 
Oratory  used  by  our  Modern  Gallants,  in  order  to  the  seducing  young 
Ladies  to  their  unlawfull  Pleasures.  To  which  are  annexed  the 
Triumphs  of  Friendship  and  Chastity,  In  some  Heroick  E.xamples 
and  Delightful  Histories.  The  whole  Illustrated  with  about  fifty 
Elegant  Epistles,  relating  to  Love  and  Gallantry.  The  Second 
Edition.  By  Thomas  Wright,  M.A.  of  St.  Peter's  College  in  Cam- 
bridge. London,  Printed  for  B.  Crayle  at  the  Peacock  and  Bible  at  the 
West  ettd  of  St.  Paul's  Church.   16S8.    Svo. 

Frontispiece,  title,  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  B — Y  7  in  eights  ;  Y  7  occupied 
by  advertisements. 

WURTEM  BERG,  Duke  of.  Kurtze  vnd  Warhaffte  Beschreibung 
der  Badenfahrt :  Welche  der  Durchleuchtig  Hochgeborn  FUrst  vnd 
Herr  Herr  Friderich,  Hertzog  zu  Wiirttemberg  vnnd  Teckh,  Grave 
zu  Miimppelgart In  negst  abgeloffenem  1592.  Jahr,  Von 


i626  WYCHERLEY—WYRLEY. 

Mtimppelgart  ausz,  In.  ...  Engellandt  hernach  im  zuriick  ziehen 
durch  die  Niderland,  bisz  widerumb  gehn  Miimppelgart,  verrichtet  hat. 
Gcdruckt  ZH  Tiihingcii,  bey  Erhardo  Cellio.    Anno  1602.    4to. 

A — P  in  fours.  Folding  cut  between  pp.  lo-i  i.  Two  folding  broadsides  between 
pp.  19-20,  and  two  others  at  pp.  26-27.  A  woodcut  of  a  garden  platt  at  p.  34, 
and  between  34  and  35  a  single  leaf  containing  an  Order  from  Admiral  Howard, 
dated  from  Bifleete,  Sept.  2,  1592,  to  all  Justices  of  the  Peace  to  furnish  the  Duke 
with  post  horses  on  his  way  to  the  sea-side.  A  woodcut  of  a  water-wheel  between 
folios  44-5. 

The  Duke  of  Wurtemberg,  whose  travels  are  here  related,  is  referred  to  by 
Shakespeare,  in  the  "  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,"  act  iv.,  sc.  5. 

WYCHERLEY,  William.  Plays,  Containing  The  Plaine  Dealer, 
The  Country  Wife,  Gentleman  Dancing-Master,  Love  in  a  Wood.  . .  . 
London :  .  .  .  .  M.  DCC.  XX.    2  vols.    Sm.  8vo.   Plates. 

[WYLE,  NICOLAUS  VON.  Translationen.]  Itemindererstentrans- 
latze  discs  buches  von  Euriolo  vnd  lucrccia  vvirt  funden  ain  grosser 
freder  handel  ainer  bulschafft  &c.  [At  the  end.]  Geben  zu  Stutgarte 
vf  dem  acht  zechenden  tage  des  hornijgs  Anno  dni  Millesimo  quad- 
ringctesimo  septuagesimo  octavo  Indicoe  vndecima.  \0.  O.  u.  J."] 
Folio.    R.  M. 

Two  hundred  and  fifty  leaves,  without  catchwords,  pagination,  or  signatures. 
The  number  of  lines  in  the  page  varies  from  twenty-seven  to  thirty. 

This  work  has  no  regular  title,  and  the  contents  are  set  out  at  too  great  length 
to  give  them  in  full.  It  consists  of  eighteen  different  pieces,  amongst  which  occur 
the  history  of  Guiscard  and  Sigismunda,  the  banishment  of  Cosmo  de  Medicis  from 
Florence  ;  of  St.  Bernard  and  his  brother  ;  the  history  of  the  burning  of  Jerome  of 
Prague  and  John  Huss ;  Apuleius's  story  of  the  Golden  Ass,  &c.  The  first  six  leaves 
are  occupied  with  the  table  of  contents  and  the  dedicatory  epistle  to  Ulrich,  Duke 
of  Wurtemberg,  the  latter  being  dated  from  Stuttgart  April  18,  1478.  It  has  wood- 
cut initials  at  the  beginning  of  the  chapters  and  paragraphs.  It  is  attributed  by 
Hain  to  the  press  of  Conrad  Fyner  of  Esslingen. 

WYNNE,  Sir  John.  The  History  of  the  Gwedir  Family,  By  Sir 
John  Wynne,  The  first  Baronet  of  that  Name,  who  was  born  in  1553. 
London,  ijjo.    8vo.    Tlie  edges  uncut. 

Pp.  i6o-|-xxvii. 

WYRLEY,  William.  The  Trve  vse  of  Armorie,  Shewed  by  His- 
toric, and  plainly  proued  by  example :  the  necessitie  therof  also  dis- 
couered  :  with  the  maner  of  differings  in  ancient  time,  the  lawfulnes 
of  honorable  funerals  and  moniments :  with  other  matters  of  Anti- 
quitie,  incident  to  the  aduancing  of  Banners,  Ensignes,  and  marks  of 
noblenesse  and  chcualrie.  By  William  Wyrley.  Imprinted  at  London, 
by  L  lackson,  for  Gabriell  Caivood.    1592.    4to.    Cuts  of  arms.    CM. 

A — V  in  fours,  besides  the  title. 

S.  Erdeswick,  a  native  of  Staffordshire,  wrote  the  earlier  portion  of  the  volume, 


WYTFLIET—XEREZ.  1627 

which  is  a  prose  treatise  on  "  The  true  vse  of  Armcs."  Wyrley's  part  commences 
on  D  3,  and  consists  of  two  histories  in  verso  in  the  style  of  the  "  Mirror  for  Magis- 
trates." The  first  is  "  The  Gloriovs  Life  and  Honorable  Death  of  Sir  lohn  Chandos, 
Lord  of  Saint  Saluiour  .  .  .  .",  and  the  other  "The  Honorable  Life  and  Langvish- 
injj  Death  of  Sir  lohii  de  Gralhy  Capitall  de  Bvz,"  both  in  the  7-linc  stanza. 

On  the  title  of  the  present  copy  occur  the  initials  "  G.  B.,"  believed  to  be  in  the 
handwriting  of  Sir  George  Buc,  Master  of  the  Revels  in  the  time  of  James  L 

WYTFLIET,  Cornelius.  Descriptionis  Ptolemaic-e  avfjmcn- 
tum,  siue  Occidentis  Notitia  Breui  commentario  illustrata.  Studio  et 
opera  Comely  Wytfliet  Louaniensis.  Lovanii,  Typis  Johannis  Bogardi 
Anno  Domini  M.D.XCVII.    Folio. 

Engraved  title  and  preliminaries,  3  leaves  ;  19  maps  ;  pp.  104. 

In  the  original  gilt  vellum  binding,  with  a  coat  of  arms  stamped  on  the  side. 

WYVILL,  Sir  Christopher.  Certaine  Serious  Thoughts  which 
at  severall  times  &  vpon  sundry  Occasions  have  stollen  themselves 
into  Verse  and  now  into  the  Publike  View  from  the  Author  [the  arms 
of  Wyvill]  Esquire.  Together  w"'.  a  Chronologicall  table  denoteing 
the  names  of  such  Princes  as  ruled  the  neighbor  states  and  were  con- 
temporary to  our  English  Kings,  observeing  throughout  the  number 
of  yeares  which  every  one  of  them  reigned.  London  Printed  by  F.  B. 
for  George  Badger,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  Ids  shop  in  S'.  Dunstans  Church- 
yard Fleetstreet.    1647.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A^F  in  eights,  title  on  A  2. 

"To  the  Right  Honourable  and  Truly  Vertuous  Lady,  the  Lady  Katherine 
D'Arci,  These  following  Poems  are  by  the  Author,  Humbly  Dedicated  and  Pre- 
sented." The  poems  end  on  C  6  ;  C  7  is  blank,  and  on  the  next  leaf  is  a  separate 
title,  introducing  the  second  portion  of  the  volume.  The  general  title  is  engraved 
by  W.  Marshall.  Inserted  in  this  copy  is  a  printed  title-page  to  the  first  portion  of 
the  work,  varying  very  little  from  the  engraved  one,  but  curious  as  being  otherwise 
unknown. 

From  Mr.  Jolley's  collection. 


X. 

XENOPHON.  Xenophontis  Opera,  reccnsuit  notas  variorum 
suasque  adjecit  J.  G.  Schneider.  Oxonii.  1810-17.  6  vols.  Large 
paper.    Royal  8vo.    R.  M. 

XEREZ,  Francisco  de.  Conquista  del  Peru.  G  Verdadera  re- 
lacio  de  la  coquista  del  Peru  7  prouincia  del  Cuzco  llamada  la  nueua 
Castilla.  Conquistada  por  Francisco  picarro :  capitan  dela  .S.  C.  C. 
M.d'l  Emperador  nro  senor.    Embiada  a  su  magcstad  por  Francisco  de 


1628  XEREZ—XIMENEZ. 

Xerez  natural  d'la  muy  noble  y  muy  leal  ciudad  de  Seuilla :  secretario 
del  sobre  dicho  capita  en  todas  las  prouincias  i  conquista  dela  nueua 
Castilla  :  y  vno  delos  primeros  conquistadores  della.  C  Fue  vista  y 
examinada  esta  obra  por  madado  delos  senores  inquisidores.  [5.  /.  «.  a.] 
4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

a — e  vi  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  only  copy  known  of  this  edition.  It  is  described  from  this  copy  by  Harrisse, 
B.  A.  v.,  pt.  2.  The  title  is  within  a  woodcut  border,  and  beneath  the  words,  "  Con- 
quista del  Peru"  is  a  rude  woodcut  of  a  town  with  vessels  before  it.  According  to 
Mr.  Harrisse  it  is  the  second  edition,  having  been  printed,  in  his  opinion,  by  Juan 
de  Junta  at  Seville,  a  little  earlier  than  the  folio  of  1547.  The  first  edition  was 
printed  at  Seville  in  1534. 

XEREZ,  Francisco  de.  Libro  primo  de  la  conquista  del  Perv 
&  prouincia  del  Cuzco  de  le  Indie  occidental!.  Con  gratia  &  priui- 
legio  per  anni  X.  [Colophon.]  Stampato  in  Viuegia  per  Maestro 
Stcphano  da  Sabio  del  MDXXX  V.    Nel  mese  di  Marzo.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  a — fin  eights  ;  g,  10  leaves. 

On  the  second  leaf  of  the  volume  is  a  fuller  title  or  description  of  the  book, 
which  begins,  "  La  admirabile  ampla  et  vera  narratione  della  conquista  del  Perv  & 
prouintia  del  Cuzco  chiamata  la  noua  Castiglia,  conquistata  per  il  molto  magnifico 
&  valeroso  caualliero  Francesco  Picciaro  caualliero  della  citta  de  Trugillo  de 
Spagna  come  capitano  general  della  Cesarea  &:  catholica  maiesta  del  Imperador 
Carolo  qnto  Re  di  Spagna  &c.  mandata  a  sua  Maiesta  per  Francesco  de  Xerez 
secretario  del  supradetto  signor  capitano  generale."  &c. 

The  original  Spanish  version  of  this  book  was  printed  at  Seville,  in  folio,  in  1534, 
under  the  title  of  "  Verdadera  relacion  de  la  conquista  del  Peru,"  &c.  It  consists  of 
nineteen  leaves,  including  the  title.  Another  piece,  with  a  very  similar  title,  "  La 
conquista  del  Peru  llamada  la  nueva  Castilla,"  but  consisting  of  only  eight  leaves, 
was  printed  at  Seville  in  the  same  year.  Under  "  Xerez,"  Brunet  refers  to  "  Con- 
quista," but  under  that  head  he  gives  the  title  of  this  anonymous  work,  and  then 
describes  this  Italian  version  of  Xerez  as  though  it  were  a  translation  of  it,  while  he 
does  not  describe  the  original  of  Xerez'  work  at  all. 

Harrisse  (No.  200)  describes  this  book  as  being  in  the  Grenville  Catalogue, 
p.  536,  but  it  is  the  Spanish  edition  of  the  anonymous  "  Conquista  del  Peru, 
Sevilla.  1534,"  that  is  described  at  that  page.     This  book  is  described  at  p.  818. 

Conquista  del  Peru.    See  OviEDO. 


XIMENEZ,  Pedro.  Luzero  de  la  vida  xpiana.  [Colophon.]  A 
gloria  1  ala  banqa  de  la  sanctissiina  trinidad,  y  a  cdificacio  d  los  fieles 
xpianos.  Acabase  lapscnte  obra  llamada  luzero  de  la  vida  dexpo  agora  de 
nueua  c5  rmicha  diligccia  corregida  y  emcdada  de  mtichas  senteiicias  q 
tenia  deprauadas.  Y  pa  mayor  dcuocio  de  los  lector cs  vd  pucstas  historias 
couenictes  ala  sentccia  del  libro.  Fue  impressa  en  la  muy  noble  ciudad  de 
Seuilla  elas  casas  de  Jud  cromberger  q  sancta  gloria  ay  a.  Ana  de  mill 
I  quinientos  x  quarcnta  y  trcs.    Folio.    Black  letter. 

Folios  i.-cxvii.,  including  the  title. 


YARRELL—YEPES.  i62y 

The  title  forms  part  of  a  large  woodcut  which  occupies  the  whole  of  tlie  first 
leaf. 

This  edition  appears  to  be  altogether  unknown  to  bibliographers.  An  earlier 
one,  printed  at  .Salamanca  in  1495,  is  recorded  by  Panzer  and  Antonio,  the  latter  of 
whom  has  the  following  notice  of  it  : 

"  Lucero  de  la  vida  Christiana.  Ad  Elizabetham  Reginam,  .Salmantica;  anno 
MCUXCV.  in  folio.  Prohibitam  tamen  Expurgatorio  nostro  ultimo  libro  quanain 
ratione  fuerit,  nobis  non  adhuc  notum." — Bibliptheca  Hispaiia  Veius,  v.  2,  p.  339. 


Y. 

YARRELL,  William.  History  of  British  Birds  with  Supple- 
ment. Z(?««/i?«,  1839-43.    5  vols.  Imperial  8vo.  Large  paper.    Woodcuts. 

YEAR.  The  Year  of  Wonders :  or,  The  glorious  Rising  of  the 
fifth  Monarch  :  Shewing  the  greatness  of  that  free-born  Prince,  who 
shall  Reign  and  govern  ;  and  what  shall  happen  upon  his  Coronation. 

Deduced  from  the  Eclipse  of  the  Sun,  March  29,  1652 London, 

Printed  for  George  Horton,  1652.    4to. 

Eight  leaves,  with  cuts. 

YEARWOOD,  Randolph.  The  Penitent  Murderer.  Being  an 
Exact  Narrative  Of  the  Life  and  Death  of  Nathaniel  Bvtler ;  Who, 
(through  Grace)  became  a  Convert,  after  he  had  most  cruelly  murdered 
John  Knight.  With  the  several  Conferences  held  with  the  said  Butler 
in  Newgate,  by  the  Right  Honourable  the  Lord  Mayor,  and  divers 
Eminent  Ministers,  and  others.  As  also  his  Confession,  Speech, 
Prayer,  and  the  Sermon  preached  after  his  Execution.  Collected  by 
Randolph  Yearwood,  Chaplain  to  the  Right  Honorable,  the  Lord 
Mayor.  .  .  .  The  Fifth  Edition,  with  the  Addition  of  an  Advice  to  the 
Country.  Whereunto  is  annexed  a  serious  Advice  to  the  Citizens  of 
London.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  by  T.  Newcomb  for  J.  Rotkwel.  .  .  and 
The.  Matthews.  .  .  .  1659.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — G  4  in  eights,  including  the  frontispiece,  engraved  in  compartments,  in  which 
the  different  stages  of  the  history  are  depicted.  The  first  leaf  of  A  has  the  explana- 
tion of  this  print. 

YEPES,  Diego  de.  Historia  particvlar  De  la  persecucion  de 
Inglaterra,  y  de  los  martirios  mas  insignes  que  en  ella  ha  auido,  desde 
el  ano  del  Senor.  1570.  .  .  .  En  Madrid,  Por  Luis  Sanchez.  Afio 
M.D.XCIX.    4to.    R. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-S94  ;  table  and  imprint,  1 2  leaves. 

9  M 


i630  YONGE—ZEHN. 

YONGE,  Nicholas.  Mvsica  Transalpina.  Madrigales  translated 
of  foiire,  fiue  and  sixe  parts,  chosen  out  of  diuers  excellent  Authors, 
with  the  first  and  second  part  of  La  Verginella,  made  by  Maister  Byrd, 
upon  two  Stanz's  of  Ariosto  and  brought  to  speake  English  with  the 
rest.  Published  by  N.  Yonge,  in  fauour  of  such  as  take  pleasure  in 
musick  of  voices.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Tlwnias  East,  the  assignt  of 
William  Byrd.  1588.     Cum  Priuilegio 6  parts.    4to.    BR.  M. 

Dedicated  to  Gilbert  Lord  Talbot,  son  and  heir  of  George,  Earl  of  Shrewsbury. 

Cantus,  title,  and  dedication,  2  leaves  ;  A — H  in  fours  ;  Altus,  the  same  ; 
Quintus,  title,  &c.,  2  leaves  ;  A — G  in  fours  ;  G  4  blank  ;  Tenor,  title,  &c.,  2  leaves; 
A — H  in  fours  ;  H  4  blank  ;  Sextus,  title,  &c.,  2  leaves  ;  A — B  in  fours  ;  Bassus, 
title,  &c.,  2  leaves  ;  A — H  in  fours  ;  H  4  blank. 

Mvsica  Transalpina.    The  Second  Booke  of  Madrigalles,  to 


5.  &  6.  voices  :  translated  out  of  sundrie  Italian  Authors  &  Newly 
pvblished  by  Nicholas  Yonge.  At  London  Printed  by  Thomas  Este. 
1597.    6  Parts.    4to.    BR.  M. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Henry  Lennard  Knight. 

Cantus,  Quintus,  Altus,  and  Tenor,  each.  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours  :  Sextus, 
A,  2  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves  :  Bassus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours. 

YOUR  SERVANT  Gentlemen,  or,  What  think  you  of  a  Query 
or  two  more  ^    London,  Printed  in  the  Year  MDC.LIX.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 


ZAUALETA,  Juan  de.  El  dia  de  Fiesta  primera  parte.  Que 
contiene  el  dia  de  Fiesta  por  la  maiiana.  En  Madrid.  Per  Maria  de 
Qiiiflones.  Aflo  de  1654.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  A — Y  in  eights. 

ZAYAS,  Y  SOTOMAYOR   DONA  Maria  de.    Primera  y  segunda 

parte    de   las   novelas    amorosas,  y  exemplares Corregidas,  y 

Emendadas  en  esta  vltima  Impression.  En  Madrid :  Por  Melchor 
Sanchez.    1659.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — KK  ii  in  eights. 

ZEHN  GEBOTTEN.    [On  folio  i.]    In  dcm  name  des  vaters  vnd 

des  Suns  vnd  des  heiligc  geist  facht  an  das  buch  der  zehe  gepot 

[Colophon.]  Hie  edet  sich  das  gar  niitzlich  buch  von  dent  zehen  geboten 
vnscrs  hcrren  viit  ire  anslegioig  Dartzu  aiich  der  Icrer  schdnen  spriich 
himie  darann  gesctzet  Hie  bey  vier  ein  elage  eines  sterbende  nicnsehe  Und 


ZEILLER—ZEITGLOCKLEIN.  1631 

das  hat  gcdncckt  mcister  erliart  ratdolt  vo  aitgspurg  nn  venedig. 
M.cccc.lxxxiii.    Folio. 

First  leaf  blank  ;  register,  3  leaves  ;  folios  i.-lxxviii. 

Mr.  Libri  has  described  the  German  Breviary  of  15 18  as  the  earliest  German 
book  of  any  importance  printed  at  Venice,  but  we  have  here  a  volume  thirty-five 
years  earlier. 

ZEILLER,  Martini.  Herrn  Martini  Zeillers  seel.  Centuria 
Epistolarum  miscellanearum,  Das  ist :  Hundert  Epistcln,  odor  Send- 
Schreiben,  von  underschiedlichen  Politischen,  Historischcn,  und  andcrn 
Materien  und  Sachen.  Welche  Er,  nach  den  ersten  Sechs  Hundert, 
im  Jahr  1660.  zu  schreiben  angefangen,  und  kurz  vor  seinem  seligen 
Ableiben  zu  End  gebracht  hat.  Ulni,  bey  Balthasar  Kiilincn  bestellten. 
1663.  Sm.  8vo. 
Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-800  ;  contents  and  register,  25  leaves. 

ZEILLER,  Mattii.  Topographia  provinciarum  Austriacarum, 
Bohemias,  Moravije  et  Silesiaa,  Bavaria;,  Suevias,  Alsatia;,  Lotharingiae, 
Archiepiscopatum  Moguntinensis,  Trevirensis  et  Coloniensis,  Fran- 
coniae,  Hassiae,  Westphaliae,  Saxonice,  Brunswicensis,  Helvetia;,  Rhaetise 
et  Valesiae,  Gallia;  et  Italije,  Germanice.  Frankfurt  am  Mayn  Bey  AT. 
Merian.    1642-1726.    32  vols,  bound  in  10.    Folio.    Maps  and  plates. 

ZEITGLOCKLEIN.  Das  andechtig  zitglogglyn  des  lebens  vnd 
lidens  christi  nach  den  xxiiii.  stunde  geteilt.  [Colophon  on  D  2.]  Ze 
based  triiekt  man  mieh,  Do  man  Zalt  Mecccxcii.  Sm.  sqr.  8vo.  Wood- 
cuts.   R.  M. 

a — y  and  A — F  in  eights. 

The  edition  is  described  by  Graesse,  but  he  erroneously  assigns  266  leaves  to  it, 
the  present  copy  being  unquestionably  perfect  and  complete,  with  224  leaves  (28 
sheets  of  S  leaves  each).  The  body  of  the  \iox\  ends  with  the  colophon  as  given 
above  on  the  recto  of  D  2.  On  the  verso  of  the  same  leaf  we  read  "Hie  nach 
volgend  Sant  Brigitten  gebettlyn  "  over  a  woodcut.  These  prayers  end  on  the 
verso  of  E  v.  On  E  vi.  begins  "Andechtig  lob  der  glyder  marie  "  over  a  woodcut 
of  the  Virgin  and  Child,  and  this  ends  the  volume  on  the  recto  of  Fviii.  This  last 
part  consists  of  prayers  addressed  to  the  different  parts  of  the  body  of  the  Virgin. 
"  Zu  den  Armen  Marie,"  "  Zu  den  briisten  marie,"  "  Zu  der  nasen  marie,"  S:c. 

Das  andechtig  zeitglocklein  des  lebens  vnd   leidens  Christi. 

Nach  den  viervndzweinzig  stunden  auszgetcilt.  [Colophon.]  Gcendet 
ist  dicz  piicldein  genant  das  Zeytglockleiu  der  ynnigkeit  in  der  lobliche 
Stat  Niirmberg,  Durcli  Friderichen  Kreiis."  ncram  Sampstag  nach  A  m- 
brosij  Als  man  zelt  nach  Christi  vnsers  hen'en  gepurt  Tausent  vierhun- 
dert  vh  dreyvndneunzig  Jar.    Sm.  Sqr.  Svo.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

a — q  in  eights.  It  contains  nearly  the  same  matter  as  the  preceding  volume. 
But  it  has  not  the  separate  piece  of  12  leaves  of  Prayers  to  the  Virgin  at  the  begin- 
ning, nor  the  1 2  leaves  of  Prayers  to  St.  Bridget  at  the  end.  The  woodcuts  are 
entirely  different  though  representing  the  same  subjects. 


1632  ZEITGLOCKLEIN—ZOUCHE. 

ZEITGLOCKLEIN.  Das  andechtig  zeyt  glocklel  des  lebes  vn 
leydes  cristi  iiach  den.  xxiiij.  stunden,  ausz  geteylt.  [Colophon.]  Ge- 
drnckt  vnd  volcndct  diirch  Caspar  Hoclifeder  ecu  Nnrmberg.  Im.  xcv.  jar. 
Sm.  sq.  vol.     Woodcuts. 

a — z  in  eights.  Then  follows  a  new  title,  "  Andechtig  vnd  fruchtber  lob  der 
gelyder  Marie,"  12  leaves,  at  the  end  of  which  is  the  colophon  given  above. 

This  edition  appears  to  be  quite  unknown  to  bibliographers. 

Das   andechtig    zittglogglyn  des  lebens   vnd    lidens  christi 


nach  den  XXIIII.  stunden  vszgeteilt. — Andechtig  vnd  fruchtbar  lob, 
der  glyder  Marie. — Sant  Brigitten  gcbettly.  [C.  0.  n.  y.]  Sm.  8vo. 
Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

a — z  in  eights.  This  is  preceded  by  12  leaves  with  the  title  "Andechtig  vnd 
fnichtbar  lob  der  glyder  Marie,"  and  is  followed  by  a  piece  of  12  leaves  with  the 
title  "  Sant  Brigitten  gebettly." 

This  edition  appears  to  be  undescribed  by  bibliographers.  It  is  very  prettily 
printed,  with  a  woodcut  border  round  each  page. 

ZIEGLER,  Jacob.  Terrae  Sanctae,  qvam  Palaestinam  nominant, 
Syriae,  Arabise,  .^gypti  &  Schondiae  doctissima  descriptio,  una  cum 
singulis  tabulis  earundem  regionum  topographicis.  .  .  .  Holmiae 
plane  regise  vrbis  calamitosissima  clades  ab  eodem  descripta.     Terrae 

Sanctae  altera  descriptio authore  Vuolffgango  Vueissenburgio 

Argentorati,  Apiid  Viiendelinitni  Riheliitm.  An.  M.D. XXXVI.    Folio. 

Folios  I-CXLII,  including  the  title;  inde.\,  not  paged,  14  leaves;  8  woodcut 
maps,  and  2  leaves  of  errata. 

ZIGLERUS,  Bernardus.  Disputationes  dvae,  princa  de  iusticia 
fidei.  Secvnda  de  bonis  operibvs.  Lipsiae  in  officina  Valcntini  Papae. 
Anno  MD.XLIX.    8vo.    bl.  m. 

Seventeen  leaves. 

ZOROASTER.  Zend-Avesta,  ouvrage  de  Zoroastre,  traduit  en 
francais  sur  I'original  Zend,  avec  des  remarques  par  Anquetil  du  Per- 
ron.  Paris  1771.    2  vols,  in  3.    4to.  R.  M. 

ZOUCHE,  Richard.  The  Dove  :  Or  Passages  of  Cosmography. 
By  Richard  Zovche  Ciuillian,  of  New  Coiledge  in  Oxford.  Siciit 
ColumbcE.  London  :  Printed  for  George  Norton,  and  are  to  be  sonld  at 
his  slwp  vnder  the  blacke  Bell,  neere  Teniple-barre.  1613.  Sm.  8vo. 
G.  M. 

A,  4  leaves ;  B — E  in  eights.  Dedicated  to  the  author's  kinsman,  Edward, 
Lord  Zouche. 

From  Dr.  Bliss's  collection.  There  arc  commendatory  verses  by  Thomas  Lake, 
John  Harris  of  New  College,  and  Richard  Yong.  This  rare  little  volume  of  Eng- 
lish poetry,  from  which  Dr.  Bliss  has  made  copious  extracts  in  his  edition  of  the 
"  Athenae  O.xoniensis,'  was  reprinted  in  1S39. 


ZUCCOLLO—ZWINGLIUS.  1633 

ZUCCOLLO.    La   pazzia   del  ballo,  Composta  per  M.    Simeon 

Zuccollo  da  Cologna.   Li  Padova  Per  Giaconio  Fabriano.  M.D.XLIX. 

4to.    BR.  M. 

A — H  3  in  fours. 

ZUNIGA,  JOAQ.  Mart.  de.    Historia  dc  las  Islas  Philipina.s  com- 

puesta  por  el  R.  P.  Lector  Fr.  Joaquin  Martinez  dc  Zuniga  del  Orden 

de  San  Agustin.  .  .  .   Con  las  licencias  nccesarias :   Iniprcso  en  Sain- 

paloc :  Por  Fr.  Pedro  Argiielles  de  la  Concepcion  Religiose  Francisco. 

AHo  de  1S03.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — Oooo  in  fours. 

ZWINGLIUS,  Ulric.  The  rekenynge  and  declaracion  of  the 
fayth  and  belefe  of  huldrike  zwyngly/  byshoppe  of  ziiryk  the  chefe 
town  of  Heluitia/  sent  to  Charles,  v.  that  nowe  is  Emproure  of  Rome  : 
Holdynge  a  parlement  or  Counsayll  at  Ausbrough  with  the  chefe 
Lordes  and  lerncd  men  of  Germanye,  The  yere  of  our  Lorde  M.D.xxx. 
In  the  moneth  of  July.  [Quotations.]  Translated  and  Imprynted  at 
ziiryk  in  Marche.  Anno  Do.  M.D.XLIII.  [Colophon.]  Imprynted  by 
me  Rycharde  Wyer.  \ii.  d^   Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A — E  2  in  eights. 


APPENDIX. 


A.,  T.  The  Massacre  of  Money.  Teruntio  sen  vitiosa  mice  non 
emitur.  London  Printed  by  Thomas  Creede  for  Thomas  Btishcll.  1602. 
4to.    R.  M. 

A — F  3  in  fours. 

A  poem  in  6-line  stanzas.  The  dedication  is  addressed:  "To  the  Worshipful!, 
vertuous,  and  most  worthy  gentlemen,  M.  William  and  M.  Thomas  Bedles  health 
and  their  hearts  content,"  and  is  signed  with  the  initials  T.  A. 

The  name  of  the  author  has  never  been  ascertained,  though  the  book  has  usually 
been  ascribed  to  Thomas  Achelly.  Mr.  Collier,  who  gives  a  very  full  account 
of  the  book  in  his  "  Bibliographical  Catalogue,"  remarks  that  it  is  ascribed  to  him 
on  no  very  sufficient  grounds. 

ADAMSON,  John.  The  Commonplace  book  of  John  Adamson, 
1665-6,  and  of  members  of  his  family,  being  a  miscellany  of  prose  and 
verse,  written  between  1665  and  1690.    Sm.  8vo. 

Manuscript  on  paper. 

ADAMUS  CARTHUSIENSIS.  Sermones  Ade  Cartusiensis  et 
aliorum.  Vita  S.  Hugonis  Eplscopi  Lincolniensis.  Vita  ejusdem  Ade. 
Etc.    Folio.    MS.  on  vellum. 

Two  hundred  and  twenty  folios,  written  in  the  earlier  part  of  the  fifteenth 
century,  in  double  columns,  with  rubrics  and  coloured  initials. 

At  the  beginning,  on  the  fly-leaf,  facing  folio  i,  is  this  inscription  :  "  Liber 
Domus  Salutationis  matris  dei  Ordinis  Cartusiensis  prope  london;"  and  at  the 
end,  after  the  table  of  contents,  is  written :  "  Liber  Domus  Ordinis  Cartusiensis 
prope  London." 

1.  "  Incipit  secunda  pars  sermonum  quos  Magister  dompnus  adam  ordinis  car- 
tusiensis monachus  composuit :  quos  et  nunc  propter  fastidium  lectoris  amouendum 
constat  esse  abbreuiatos."  After  twenty-three  sermons  is  this  colophon:  "  E.\- 
pliciunt  sermones  secunde  partis  magistri  ade  cartusiensis."     Ff.  i-ggb. 

2.  "  Sermo  beati  fulgencij  episcopi  :  de  natiuitate  domini."  Inc.  "  Cupientes 
aliquid."     Ff.  ggb-ioib. 

3.  "Sermo  beati  ma.\imi  episcopi:  de  natiuitate  domini."  Inc.  "Justissime 
fratres."     Ff.  ioib-103. 

4.  "  Sermo  beati  augustini  episcopi  :  de  sancto  stephano."  Inc.  "  Quum  in  deo." 
Ff.  103-106. 

J.  "  Sermo  venerabilis  bede  presb>'teri :  de  sancto  Johanne  euangelista."  Inc. 
"  Gaudeamus  fratres."     Ff.  106-111. 

6.  "  De  festo  sancte  Agnetis  secundo."    Inc.  "  Igitur  dum  parentes."    F.  1 1  lab. 

7.  "  De  Vita  Sancti   Hugonis."    After  this  title  (which  is  written  by  a  hand 


1636  APPENDIX. 

somewhat  later  than  that  of  the  first  scribe)  follows  :  "  Prologs  abbreuiacionis 
uite  beati  Hugonis,"  commencing,  "  Inspecta  serie  descripcionis  uite  beati  hugonis 
quam  composuit  frater  A.  de  quo  in  salutacione  ante  prologum  mencio  fit  expressa." 
This  last-mentioned  prologue  or  dedication  commences  on  the  following  page  : 
"  Dominis  et  amicis  in  Christo  carissimis,  R.  Priori  et  qui  cum  eo  sunt  Sanctis 
Withamensibus  monachis  seruorum  suorum  minimus  frater  A.  uite  que  nunc  est  et 
future  gaudia."  The  Life  is  comprised  in  five  books,  each  of  which  is  divided  into 
chapters.  The  first  chapter  of  book  i.  begins  thus  :  "  Hugo  genetricis  solacio 
.  .  .  orbatus  est."  Chapter  xxviii.  of  the  last  book  terminates  :  "  ad  gloriam 
dei  qui  viuit  et  gloriatur  super  omnia  deus  benedictus  in  secula  AMEN.  Explicit 
liber  abbreuiacionis  uite  beati  Hugonis."     Ff.  Ii2-2i3b. 

After  one  blank  column  and  one  blank  page  are  the  following  articles,  written 
in  long  lines,  not  much  later  than  the  foregoing  pieces  :— 

8.  "  De  vita  et  conuersacione  Magistri  Ade  cartusiensis  secundum  quod  habetur 
in  cronica  domus  de  Witham."  Inc.  "  Fuit  itaque  vir  iste  Magister  Adam  in  con- 
finio  anglie  et  scocie  oriundus."  The  Life  is  followed  by  a  list  of  so  many  of  his 
works  as  the  writer  could  remember,  commencing  with  his  Sermons,  in  two  volumes. 
Ff.  2i4b-2i8b. 

9.  "  De  priore  de  Witham  alberto  nomine."  Inc.  "  Eodem  tempore  Dominus 
Hugo  lincolniensis  episcopus."     F.  219. 

10.  "  Sermo  in  die  sancto  Pasche,"  on  the  text  "Alleluia."  Inc.  "Patres  re- 
uerendi  et  confratres  in  domino  carissimi."  Written  by  another  and  somewhat 
later  hand,  in  long  lines,  and  in  smaller  writing.     Ff.  219-220. 

11.  "  Sermo  deuoti  ac  religiosi  patris  domini  thome  kempis  ordinis  diui  augustini 
de  cruce  dominica  in  sacra  religione  portanda."  Inc.  "  Michi  Autem  absit  gloriari." 
This  is  written  in  long  lines,  by  a  scribe  of  the  fifteenth  century,  on  three  leaves, 
inserted  after  the  twentieth  sermon  of  Adam  the  Carthusian.     Ff.  8o*-82*. 

On  the  last  page  (f.  220b) :  "  Contenta  in  hoc  volumine,"  &c.  All  the  above- 
mentioned  articles  are  referred  to  except  those  numbered  6  and  n.  At  the  foot  is 
written  :  "  Liber  Domus  Ordinis  Cartusiensis  prope  London." 

Adam  the  Carthusian  is  mentioned  in  the  "  Bibliotheca  Carthusiana"  of  T. 
Petreius,  Colonicv,  1609,  8vo.,  as  well  as  by  Pits,  Vossius,  and  others,  who  generally 
state  that  he  flourished  A.D.  1340,  or  thereabouts.  From  the  account  of  him  con- 
tained in  the  present  MS.,  it  appears  that  he  lived  at  a  considerably  earlier  period, 
and  that  he  was  first  a  monk  and  then  Abbot  of  the  Prasmonstratensian  monastery 
of  Dryburgh  in  Scotland,  but  that  he  subsequently  joined  the  Carthusian  order,  and 
became  a  monk  of  Witham,  county  of  Somerset — their  first  house  in  England, 
which  was  at  that  time  under  the  special  care  of  St.  Hugh,  who  had  been  prior 
there.     This  prelate  deceased  a.d.  1200. 

The  Sermons  are  not  mentioned  by  Petreius,  nor,  so  far  as  appears,  by  any 
other  writer.  The  twenty-first  of  these  is  entitled  "  Sermo  in  die  sancti  hugonis 
episcopi  lincolniensis;"  and  it  is  observable  that  the  saint  is  spoken  of  historically, 
and  that  a  "  Life"  of  him  is  cited,  as  weU  as  the  "  Speculum"  of  Vincent  of  Beau- 
vais,  who  flourished  a.d.  1250. 

These  facts,  though  consistent  with  the  date  assigned  to  Adam  the  Carthusian 
by  Petreius  and  others,  viz.  1340,  do  not  agree  with  his  biography  as  recorded  in 
this  MS.  (artt.  8,  9).  Unless  there  were  two  Carthusian  writers  of  the  name  of 
Adam,  the  date  1340  must  be  an  erroneous  one.  The  sermon  on  St.  Hugh  would 
appear  to  have  been  interpolated  into  the  series. 

Petreius  refers  to  the  "Life  of  St.  Hugh,"  in  five  books,  and  cites  words  of  the 
author's  which  are  found  in  the  present  copy  ;  "  — que  de  uiro  beatissimo  lincolniensi 
presule  uidi  audiui,"  &c.,  f.  nib,  col.  2.  He  imagines  that  the  book  was  written, 
not  by  Adam  the  Carthusian,  but  by  an  archdeacon  of  Lincoln  who  was  familiarly 


APPENDIX.  1637 

acquainted  with  St.  Hugh — an  opinion  which  is  plainly  contrary  to  the  evidence 
furnished  by  this  MS. 

This  volume  is  in  the  original  monastic  binding',  consisting  of  massive  boards 
of  oak,  covered  with  white  leather,  and  with  the  ancient  chased  clasps  attached  to 
leathern  thongs.  It  is  a  valuable  and  interesting  relic  of  the  library  of  the  ancient 
Carthusian  monastery  of  London,  on  the  site  of  which  Thomas  Sutton  founded  the 
Charterhouse  Scliool  and  Almshouses. 

.(ESOP.  La  Vita  de  Esopo  Hystoriata.  Fabulo  de  Esopo  hys- 
toriate  \senz  alcuna  uota].    Sm.  8vo.    Woodcuts. 

"  La  Vita  ",  A— K  iv.  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank.     "  Fabule  ",  A— K  in  eights. 

The  title  to  the  "  Vita  de  Esopo  "  is  over  a  woodcut,  on  which  are  the  initials 
.  I. .  C.  These  initials  are  engraved  by  Nagler,  "  Monogrammisten  Lexikon,"  vol.  iii.. 
No.  2061.  He  is  unable  to  give  the  name  of  the  artist  or  wood-engraver  to  whom 
they  belong,  but  he  remarks  that  they  occur  in  the  "  Triompho  di  Fortuna  "  of 
Sigismondo  Fanti,  printed  at  Venice,  1526,  and  it  maybe  inferred  that  this  edition 
of  yEsop  was  from  a  Venetian  press,  about  the  same  date.  It  does  not  appear  to  be 
described  by  bibliographers.  Some  of  the  engravings  in  the  work  of  Fanti  bear  the 
initials  I.  M.  on  a  tablet.     See  Nagler,  vol.  iii..  No.  2809. 

ALAEJOS,  ESTEVAN  DE.  Obra  muy  vtil  y  prouechosa  para  los 
deuotos  de  nuestra  Senora,  y  Cofrades  de  la  Cofradia  del  Rosario. 
Sucedio  en  Fuente  la  mora  tierra  de  Valecia,  a  vna  pobre  Pastora  de- 
uota  dc  rezar  su  bendito  Rosario,  Copuesta  por  Esteuan  de  Alaejos 
natural  de  Monte  Sacro.  Vistas  y  examinadas  por  el  padre  Fray 
Diego  de  Ledesma  de  la  orden  de  Sant  Benito,  hnpressas  con  licencia 
en  Salamanca  en  casa  de  Pedro  Lasso,  ailo  dc.  1 596.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

In  metre.  Beneath  the  title  is  a  small  cut  of  the  Virgin  and  Child.  At  the  end 
is  a  licence  to  print,  dated  1592,  beneath  which  is  a  woodcut  letter  O  with  a  Vero- 
nica in  the  centre. 

ALCOCK,  John,  Bishop  of  Ely.  [On  page  i.]  Her  begyn- 
neth  the  Abbey  that  is  clepyd  y'  Abbey  of  ye  holi  gost.  [On  page 
13.]  Here  begynnej?  ye  meditation  of  seint  Anselm.  [On  page  18.] 
[I]t  is  founde  wryten  that  Seynt  lohn  the  eungelist  aftre  the  Assump- 
cion  of  oure  lady  greatly  desyred  inwardly  to  se  that  blessed  vyrgyn 
&c.  [On  page  22.]  [H]ere  folowj'th  a  doctrync  how  the  spawter 
[Psalter]  of  oure  lady  shal  be  saide  which  she  taught  vnto  an  holy 
man  which  had  a  grete  deuocion  to  sey  her  spawter  ....  Sm.  4to. 

MS.  of  the  fifteenth  century,  on  twenty-nine  pages  of  vellum. 

John  Alcock,  the  author  of  the  first-named  tract,  and  probably  of  the  others, 
held  successively  the  sees  of  Rochester,  Worcester,  and  Ely  from  1472  to  1500. 
"The  Abbey  of  the  Holy  Ghost"  was  printed  by  Wynken  de  Worde  without 
date. 

ALDUS.  Aldi  Manvtii  Romani  rvdimenta  grammatices  latinae 
linguae.  De  Uteris  grdecis  &  diphthogis,  &  quemadmodu  ad  nos  ueniat. 

9  N 


1638  APPENDIX. 

Abbreuiationes,  quibus  frequenter  graeci  utuntur.  Oratio  dominica,  & 
duplex  Salutatio  ad  Virginem  gloriosiss.  Symbolum  Apostolorum. 
Diui  loannis  Euangelistae  Euangelium.  Aurea  Carmina  Pythagorae. 
Phocylidis  Poema  ad  bene,  beateq,  uiuendum.    Omnia  lijec  cum  inter- 

pretatione  latina.    Introductio  perbreuis  ad  hebraicam  linguam 

[Colophon.]     Veil.  Mcnse  Febr.  DI.     4to.     BL.  M. 

a— n  in  eights,  followed  by  four  leaves  of  the  Hebrew  alphabet. 

First  edition.  From  the  choice  collection  of  M.  Renouard,  who  has  added  a 
proof  impression  of  the  portrait  of  Aldus  engraved  for  his  "  Annales  des  Aide." 

M.  Renouard  remarks  : — "  Cette  premiere  ddition  est  extrcmement  rare  ;  et 
manque  dans  la  plupart  des  collections  Aldines.  M.  le  comte  M^jan  la  croit  plus 
rare,  meme  que  les  Virgiles  de  1501  et  1505.  Je  serois  assez  de  son  avis,  laissant 
ndanmoins  aux  deux  Virgiles  toute  leur  importance  comme  monuments  tj-pogra- 
phiques  du  plus  haul  intdret." 

ALKEN,  Henry.  The  National  Sports  of  Great  Britain,  with 
descriptions  in  English  and  French.     London,  1821.     Royal  folio. 

With  fifty  coloured  plates  of  hawking,  racing,  hunting,  shooting,  pugilism,  cock- 
fighting,  bearbaiting,  &c.,  drawn  by  Aiken,  and  engraved  by  J.  Clark. 

ALMANAC.  Alma[na]cke  for  .xv.  yeres.  Here  begynneth  y^ 
scycle  or  chauge  of  y^  mone  with  y°  coniuncyon/  &  sheweth  what 
daye/  houre/  mynute/  sygne/  and  degre  y'^  mone  shall  chaunge.  Also 
ye  maye  knowe  the  eclypse  of  the  sonne  and  mone  from  the  date  of 
ourlord.M.CCCCC.&.xxii.vntoy''dateofourlorde.M.CCCCC.&.xxxvii: 
And  truely  corrected  by  a  true  copye  with  great  dylygece.  Iinprynted 
at  London  in  the  Flctestrctc  at  the  sygne  of  the  sonne  by  me  ivynkyn  de 
worde.     [1522.]     Sm.  8vo.     Black  letter. 

Nine  printed  leaves,  preceded  by  a  leaf  occupied  by  a  woodcut.  The  printer's 
small  device,  white  on  a  black  ground,  is  beneath  the  title  given  above.  From 
the  collection  of  Mr.  Kenelm  Henry  Digby,  author  of  the  "  Broadstone  of  Honour." 
No  other  copy  is  known  ;  but  a  different  almanac,  from  the  same  press,  was  be- 
queathed by  Dr.  Bliss  to  the  Bodleian  library.  On  the  flyleaf  is  an  inscription 
commemorating  the  donation  of  the  volume  to  Mr.  Digby  by  the  Reverend  Father 
Scott,  of  the  Society  of  Jesus,  on  the  day  of  his  first  communion  in  the  Jesuits' 
Chapel,  Norton  Street,  London.  At  the  end  is  a  leaf,  printed  in  a  larger  type 
than  the  Almanac  itself,  giving  an  account  of  the  graces  to  be  granted  "  to  all  y° 
bredren  and  sy stars  of  Jesus  fratemyte  in  y"  crowdes  vnder  Poules." 

AMARYLLIS  :  Consisting  of  such  Songs  as  are  most  esteemed 
for  Composition  and  Delicacy,  and  Sung,  at  the  Publick  Theatres  or 
Gardens ;  All  chosen  from  the  Works  of  the  Best  Masters,  And 
rightly  Adapted  for  the  Voice,  Violin,  Hauboy,  Flute  and  German 
Flute.     With  a  Figured  Base  for  the  Harpsicord.     Second  Edition 

Improved London.    Publislid  according  to  Act  of  Parliament. 

By  T.  J.     [About  1750.]     2  vols,  in  i.     4to.    G.  M. 

Vol.  i.,  title,  preface,  and  contents,  2  leaves  ;  pp.  i — So.  Vol.  ii.,  pp.  i — 80 
including  title-page. 


/ 


APPENDIX.  i63y 

The  whole  of  this  rare  book  is  engraved,  and  each  page  of  text  and  music  is 
surmounted  by  a  vignette. 

The  second  piece  in  the  first  volume  may  help  to  fix  the  date  of  publication.  It  is 
"  A  Song  in  Honour  of  His  Royal  Highness  y'-  Duke  [of  Cumberland]  on  liis  great 
defeat  of  the  Rebels  in  Scotland." 

[AMES,  Richard.]  Fatal  Friendship  ;  Or  the  Drunkards  Misery  : 
being  a  Satyr  against  Hard  Drinking.  By  the  Author  of  the  Search 
after  Claret.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  for,  and  Sold  by,  Randal  Taylor, 
near  Stationers-Hall,  \6()i.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — E  2  in  fours.     In  verse. 

ANACREON  Done  into  English  Out  of  the  Original  Greek 

Oxford,  Printed  by  L.  Lichfield,  Printer  to  the  University  ;  for  Anthony 
Step/iens  Bookseller  near  the  Theatre,  1683.     8vo. 

(a) — (c  2)  in  fours  ;  B — P  2  in  fours.     The  preface  is  signed  S.  B. 

ANTIDOTE.  An  Antidote  against  the  crying  sins  Of  the  Times: 
Which  may  prove  an  excellent  Remedy  against  Intemperate  Drinking 
and  Healths,  So  much  practised  in  our  dayes  both  in  City  and  Countrcy  : 
Declaring  above  an  hundred  Stories  and  Examples  ....  With  several 
Copper  Cutts  of  the  Examples.  To  which  is  added  His  Majesties 
Proclamation  verbatim,  published  a  little  after  his  Restoration,  against 
Vicious,  Debauched,  Prophane  Persons  .  .  .  With  a  Preface  written  by 
a  Noted  Minister.  London,  Printed,  and  are  to  be  Sold  by  Langlcy 
Curtis  .  .  .   1683.     4to. 

B — K  in  fours,  and  the  title-page,  besides  three  leaves  of  copper-plates,  each  in 
four  compartments.  This  tract  is  partly  formed  out  of  Samuel  Ward's  "  Woe  to 
Drunkards,"  8vo.,  1622.  There  was  an  earlier  issue  with  a  somewhat  different  title 
in  1682. 

APARICIO,  Pedro  DE.  Relacion  del  viage  y  prospero  successo, 
que  han  tenido  las  Galeras  de  Malta,  embiadas  por  el  gran  Maestre,  a 
las  partes  de  Grecia  y  tierra  de  Turcos,  para  que  proueyessen  de  trigo, 
remediando  la  falta  que  auia  en  la  dicha  isla.  (.■■.)  Con  licencia. 
Inipresso  en  Cuenca  en  casa  de  Bartholome  de  Selina,  Impressor  de  libros, 
Ailo  de  1603.     4to. 

Four  leaves.  On  the  title  is  a  rude  woodcut  of  a  town  with  ships  in  harbour. 
The  Relation  itself  is  in  prose,  but  at  the  end  are  two  sonnets. 

Vida  y  muerte  de  fray  Martin  de  Cabrejas,  de  la  orden  del 

glorioso  S.  Francisco,  con  el  sumptuoso  entierro  que  su  Conuento  y  la 
ciudad  de  Cuenca  le  hizo.  Compuesto  por  Pedro  de  Aparicio.  hnpresso 
en  Cuenca  en  casa  de  Bartholome  de  Selma,  Ailo  de  1603.     4to. 

Four  leaves.  Beneath  the  title  is  a  rude  woodcut  of  the  Saint  giving  his  blessing 
to  children. 

APIANO,  Pedro.     Libro  dela  Cosmographia  De  Pedro  Apiano, 


1 640  APPENDIX. 

el  qual  trata  la  descripcion  del  Mundo,  y  sus  partes,  por  muy  claro  y 
lindo  artificio,  augmetado  por  el  doctissimo  varon  Gemma  Frisio, 
doctor  en  Medecina,  y  Mathematico  excellentissimo  :  con  otros  dos 
libros  del  dicho  Gemma,  de  la  materia  mesma.  Agora  nueuamete 
traduzidos  en  Romace  Castellano.  M.D.XLVIII.  Vendese  en  Etiveres 
en  casa  de  Gregorio  Bontio  en  el  escudo  de  Basilea.  Cum  Gratia  &  Pri- 
uilegio.    4to.     Woodcuts. 

A — T  4  in  fours,  except  sig.  K,  which  is  omitted.  Between  I  and  L  is  a  folding 
map.  On  the  verso  of  folios  8,  9,  11,  and  31,  and  the  recto  of  foho  53,  are  wood- 
cut volvelles. 

APOLOGY.  A  Catholicke  Apologie  against  the  Libels,  Declara- 
tions, Advices,  and  Consvltations  made,  written,  and  published  by 
those  of  the  League,  perturbers  of  the  quiet  Estate  of  the  Realme  of 
France.  Who  are  risen  since  the  decease  of  the  late  Monsier,  the 
Kinges  onely  brother.  By  E.  D.  L.  L  C.  Imprinted  at  London 
for  Edward  Aggas.     \_About  \'-,i^.']     Sm.  8vo.     Black  letter. 

A — V  4  in  eights. 

APULEIUS.  The  XI.  Bookes  of  the  Golden  Asse :  containing 
the  Metamorphosie  of  Lucius  Apuleius,  interlaced  with  sundry  pleasant 
and  delectable  Tales :  With  an  excellent  Narration  of  the  marriage  of 
Cupid  and  Psyches,  set  out  in  the  fourth,  fifth,  and  sixth  Bookes. 
Translated  out  of  Latine  into  English,  by  William  Adlington.  Londo?i, 
Printed  by  Thomas  Harper,  for  Thomas  A  Ichor n,  and  are  to  be  sold  at 
his  Shop  at  the  signe  of  the  Greene  Dragon  in  Pauls  Church-yard, 
1639.     4to.     Black  letter. 

A — G  g  in  fours.     Dedicated  to  Thomas,  Earl  of  Sussex. 

ARGUELLO,  Gaspar  Isidro  de.  Instrvciones  del  Santo  Oficio 
de  la  Inquisicion,  sumariamente,  antiguas,  y  nueuas.  Prestas  por 
Abecedario  por  Gaspar  Isidro  de  Arguello  Oficial  del  Consejo.  En 
Madrid,  En  la  Imprenta  Real.  Aho  M. DC. XX VII.  Compilacion 
de  las  Instruciones  del  Oficio  de  la  santa  Inquisicion,  hechas  por  el 
Reuerendo  senor  Fray  Tomas  de  Torquemada  Prior  del  Monasterio  de 
santa  Cruz  de  Segouia,  primero  Inquisidor,  general  de  los  Reynos  y 
Senorios  de  Espaiia.     E  por  los  otros  Reverendissimos  Sefiores  In- 

quisidores  generales  que  despucs  sucedieron En  Madrid,  En 

la  Imprenta  Real.     Aho  162J.     Folio. 

IT,  8  leaves,  HIT,  10  leaves  ;  followed  by  folios  1—38,  including  the  second  title. 

ARWAKER,  E.  Truth  in  Fiction:  or.  Morality  in  Masque- 
rade. A  Collection  of  Two  hundred  twenty  five  Select  Fables  of 
/Esop,  and  other  Authors.  Done  into  English  Verse.  By  Edward 
Arwakcr,  Rector   of   Donaghmorc  in   Ireland,  and  Chaplain  to   His 


APPENDIX.  1 64 1 

Grace  The  Duke  of  Ormond.     [Quotation  from  Juvenal.]     London, 
Printed  for  J.  Churcliill  .  .  .  1708.    8vo.     The  edges  uncut. 
A,  4  leaves  ;  a,  8  leaves  ;  B — Y  3  in  eights. 

ASTROLOGY.  The  Knavery  of  Astrology  discover'd,  in  Obser- 
vations upon  every  Month  of  the  Year  1680.  Together  with  the 
Nature  of  the  Seven  Planets,  &c.  By  Tim.  Tell-Troth,  Star-gazer  to 
the  Great  Mogvl.  .  .  .  Lojidon,  Printed  for  T.  B.  and  R.  E.  1680.     4to. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

ATTILA.  Atila  Flagellum  dei.  Vulgar  &  Nouamente  Hysto- 
riada.    Impressian  Venetiis.    \s.  «.]    4to.     Woodeuts. 

A — C  in  fours  ;  D,  6  leaves,  the  last  blanl:. 

This  edition  is  entirely  undescribed  by  Brunei.  It  was  probably  printed  between 
1490  and  1 500.  Beneath  the  title,  as  given  above,  is  a  large  woodcut,  which  does 
not  represent  the  betrayal  of  Christ  as  in  the  edition  described  by  Brunct,  but  a 
horseman  approaching  a  burning  town  or  citadel. 

AVILA,  LUYS  LOBERA  DE.  Banckct  der  Hofe  vnd  Edelleut. 
Des  Gesundenn  Lebens  Regiment.  Von  eygenschafift,  nutz  vnd  schcd- 
licheyt  alles  so  zu  Menschlicher  speise,  tranck,  vnd  gebrauch,  In 
Kiichen,  Keller  vnd  Apotecken,  auch  zu  leibs  mancherley  gebrechen 
von  noten.  Des  Hochgelerten  weiland  Herrn  Ludouici  de  Auila, 
Keyserlicher  Maiestat  Leibartzt.  Auffm  Reichstag  zu  Augspurg, 
der  Ritterschafft,  Adel,  Hoffleuten  vnd  Jederman  zu  vnderthenigem 
vnd  freundtlichem  gefallen  gestellet.  Zn  Franekfiirt,  Bei  Christian 
Egenolff.  [Colophon.]  Gedruckt  zu  Franckfort  am  Mcyn,  Bei  Christian 
Egcnolff.  M.  D.  Lj.    4to.     Woodcuts. 

A — K  in  fours. 

This  is  a  translation  from  a  Spanish  book  printed  at  Augsburg  in  1531,  entitled 
"  Vanquete  de  nobles  cavalleros  e  modo  de  bivir,"  &c.  The  woodcuts  in  this 
German  version  are  attributed,  in  R.  Weigel's  catalogue,  to  Hans  Burgmaier. 

AVISOS.    Aqui  se  contienen  ciento  y  veynte  notables  auisos,  para 
Christianamente  viuir,  muy  sentidos.    A  y  tambicn  vnas  coplas  de. 
Si  me  vieras  Juan,  a  lo  espiritual.    A  y  tambien  alcabo  vn  Villancico 
del  Santissimo  Nacimiento.    Impressos  con  liccncia.    [1600.]    4to. 
Four  leaves.     Beneath  the  title  is  a  small  cut  of  the  Crucili.xion. 


1642  APPENDIX. 


B. 


BACON,  FRA^XIS,  Lord  Verulam.  Sir  Francis  Bacon  his 
A[p]ologie,  in  certaine  imputations  concerning  the  late  Earle  of 
Essex.  Written  to  the  Right  Honorable  his  very  good  Lord  the 
Earle  of  Deuonshire,  Lord  Liuetenant  (sic)  of  Ireland.  London  printed 
for  Alatlieio  Lowns  and  arc  to  be  sold,  at  his  shop  in  Pauls  Church- 
yard. 1605.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — E  4  in  eights,  including  the  title.     From  Dr.  Bliss's  collection. 

Apophthegmes  New  and  Old.    Collected  by  the  right  honovr- 


able,  Francis  Lo.  Vervlam,  Viscount  St.  Alban.  London,  Printed  for 
Hanna  Barret,  and  Richard  Whittakcr,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  Kings 
Head  in  Paids  Clnircli-yard.    162$.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  B — X  2  in  eights.     First  edition. 

BAINES,  Edward.  History  of  the  County  Palatine  And  Duchy 
of  Lancaster.  By  Edward  Baines,  Esq.  M.P.  The  Biographical  De- 
partment by  W.  R.  Whatton,  Esq.  London  1836.  4  vols.  4to.  Large 
paper.    Maps  and  plates.    India  proof  impressions.    G.  M. 

Vol.  i.,  title  and  dedication,  2  leaves ;  b — c  in  fours  ;  B — 2  K  in  fours  ;  2  L,  2 
leaves  ;  2  M — 4  K  in  fours,     i  map,  5  plates. 

Vol.  ii.,  title,  contents,  and  list  of  additional  plates,  4  leaves  ;  A,  3  leaves  ; 
B — 2  X  in  fours  ;  2  Y,  2  leaves ;  2  Z — 3  D  in  fours  ;  3  E,  2  leaves ;  3  F— 3  I  in 
fours  ;  3  K,  2  leaves  ;  3  L — 3  U  in  fours  ;  3  X,  2  leaves  ;  3  Y — 4  T  in  fours.  2  maps, 
45  plates,  iS  pedigrees. 

Vol.  iii.,  title,  contents,  list  of  plates,  and  list  of  additional  plates,  4  leaves  ; 
A,  3  leaves  ;  B — 5  C  in  fours.     53  plates,  40  pedigrees. 

VoL  iv.,  title,  contents,  list  of  plates,  and  list  of  additional  plates,  4  leaves  ; 
A,  3  leaves  ;  B — 5  U  in  fours.     65  plates,  20  pedigrees. 

BALDWIN,  Richard.  New  and  Complete  Guide  to  all  Persons 
who  have  any  Trade  or  Concern  with  the  City  of  London,  and  Parts 
Adjacent.  .  .  The  Eleventh  Edition  .  .  \Londonl\  176S.  Sm.  8vo. 
Map. 

[BAMFORD,  James.]  A  Short  Catechisme,  verie  necessarie  to 
be  learned  of  all  Christians.  At  London,  Printed  by  lames  Roberts. 
1 597.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

Eight  leaves. 

A  Triall  of  Svbscription,  by  way  of  a  Preface  vnto  certaine 


svbscribers  ;  And,  Reasons  for  lessc  rigour  against  non-subscribers. 
Both  modestly  written  ;  that  Neither  should  offend.  [Quotation  from 
Esay,  44,  5.]    {No  place  or  printer  s  nanie^     IS99.     Sm.  8vo. 

A — C  4  in  eights. 


APPENDIX.  1643 

[BAMFORD,  James.]  A  Short  Dialogve  concerning  the  Plagvcs 
Infection.  Piiblislicd  to  prcscruc  blond,  through  the  blessing  of  God. 
[Quotation  from  I'sahn  xci.  11,  and  Matth.  iv.  7.]  London,  Printed 
for  Richard  Boyle,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Black-friers.  1603. 
Sin.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A,  6  leaves  ;  B— G  2  in  eights. 

The  Triall  of  Maist.  Dorrcll,  Or  A  Collection  of  Defences 

against  Allegations  not  yet  suftered  to  receiue  convenient  answere. 
Tending  To  cicare  him  from  the  Imputation  of  teaching  Sommcrs  and 
others  to  counterfeit  possession  of  Divells.  That  The  mist  of  pre- 
tended counterfetting  being  dispelled,  the  glory  of  Christ  his  royall 
power  in  casting  out  Divels  (at  the  prayer  and  fasting  of  his  people) 
may  evidently  appeare.  [Quotation  from  John  vii.  11,  and  Proverbs 
xiv.  15.]    \No  place  or  printer  s  namel\    1599.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — G  4  in  eights. 

Hvmble  Motives  for  association  to  maintaine  religion  esta- 
blished. Published  as  an  antidote  against  the  pestilent  treatises  of 
secular  Priests.     Virtus  vnita  valet.    Imprinted  1601.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — F  I  in  fours,  besides  the  title. 

Let  Qvilibet  beware  of  Qvodlibet.    \_No  place,  printer's  name, 

or  date.'\     [1590.]    Sm.  8vo. 

Six  leaves,  including  the  title. 

A   Position  maintained  by  I.  B.  before  the  late   Earle  of 

Huntingdon  :  viz.  Priests  are  executed  not  for  Religion,  but  for 
treason.    Nczvly  imprinted.    1600.    Sm.  8vo. 

Eight  leaves,  the  first  blank. 

These  tracts  are  bound  together  in  one  volume.  They  are  in  the  original  limp 
vellum  binding,  and  on  the  fly-leaf  is  inscribed  :  "Samuel  Bamfordes  booke  of  his 
fathers  gifte." 

The  third  piece  in  the  volume  is  addressed  by  James  Bamford  "  To  his  welbe- 
lovcd  in  Christ,  the  Parishioners  of  Saint  Olaves  in  Southwarke,"  and  the  initials 
in  the  title  of  the  seventh  tract  appear  to  indicate  the  same  author.  It  therefore 
seems  e.\tremely  probable  that  Bamford  was  the  author  of  the  whole  of  the  pieces, 
and  presented  the  volume  to  his  son  as  a  collection  of  his  works.  That  he  did  not 
put  his  name  to  them  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  as  they  are  written  on  the  Puritan 
side.  The  tract  in  defence  of  Darell  is  especially  curious.  Being  in  opposition  to 
the  works  published  on  the  same  subject  by  Archbishop  Harsnet  and  Bishop 
Barlow,  the  author  evidently  thought  it  safer  to  put  neither  his  own  name  nor  even 
that  of  a  publisher  to  it.  The  amount  of  credulity  it  displays  in  regard  to  witches 
and  witchcraft  is  surprising,  even  for  those  days.  With  the  exception  of  the 
"  Short  Dialogue  concerning  the  plagues  infection,"  all  these  tracts  appear  to  be 
undescribed  by  bibliographers. 

BANCROFT,  George,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Con- 
spiracie  for  Pretended  Reformation  :   viz.  Presbyteriall  Discipline.     A 


1 644  APPENDIX. 

Treatise  discouering  the  late  dcsignements  and  courses  held  for  ad- 
uancement  thereof  by  William  Racket  Yeoman,  Edmund  Coppinger, 
and  Henry  Arthington  Gent,  out  of  others  depositions  and  their  owne 
letters,  writings,  &  confessions  vpon  examination  :  Together  with  some 
part  of  the  life  and  conditions,  and  the  two  Inditements,  Arraignment, 
and  Execution  of  the  sayd  Racket :  Also  an  answere  to  the  calumnia- 
tions of  such  as  affirme  they  were  mad  men :  and  a  resemblance  of 
this  action  vnto  the  like  happened  heretofore  in  Germanic.  Vltimo 
Septembris.  1591.  [Two  quotations.]  Published  now  by  authoritie. 
Imprinted  at  London  by  the  Deputies  of  Christoplier  Barker  .  .  .  Anno 

Domini  1592.    4to. 

A — P  2  in  fours. 

BANQUET.  A  Banquet  for  Gentlemen  and  Ladies :  Consisting 
of  Nine  Tragi-Comical  Novels,  viz.  The  Treacherous  Friend,  The 
Jealous  Husbands,  The  Friendly  Cheat,  Jealousy  without  Cause,  The 
Cuckold  turn'd  Confessor,  The  Prodigal  Reclaim'd  and  Virginity 
Restor'd,  The  Unfortunate  Lovers,  The  Cruel  Mother,  The  Baccha- 
nalians. Intermix'd  with  Several  Pleasant  and  Delightful  Tales  and 
Stories.  The  Fifth  Edition.  London  :  Printed  for  Daniel  Pratt  .... 
1718.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — H  6  in  twelves,  the  first  leaf  occupied  by  a  woodcut  frontispiece.  No  earlier 
edition  seems  to  be  recorded. 

BARCIA,  A.  G.  Historiadores  primitives  de  las  Indias  Occi- 
dentales  que  junto,  traduxo  en  parte,  y  saco  a  luz,  ilustrados  con  eru- 
di'tas  Notas,  y  copiosos  Indices  el  .  .  .  Seiior  A.  G.  Barcia.  Aladrid. 
Afio  1749.    3  vols.    Folio. 

Vol.  i..  Title  and  "  Indice,"  2  leaves  ;  A  and  If,  2  leaves  each  ;  B — LI  I  in 
twos,  sig.  R  omitted.  "  Carta  de  Relacion,"  A — Yiii  in  fours.  "  Proemio,"  A — G 
in  fours  ;  H — Ki  in  twos  ;  title  and  "  E.xamen  Apologetico,"  2  leaves  ;  A,  5  leaves  ; 
B — G  I  in  fours;  "  Naufragios  de  A.  Nunez,"  A — E  in  fours;  F — H  in  twos; 
"  Comentarios  de  Alv.  Nufiez,"  A — I  in  fours. 

Vol.  ii.,  Title,  I  leaf;  A — Bb  in  fours  ;  Cc,  2  leaves  ;  Dd,  i  leaf;  "Tabla,"  30 
leaves  ;  "  F.  L.  de  Gomara  Chronica,"  A — Hh  ii  in  fours  ;  "  Tabla,"  23  leaves. 

Vol.  iii.,  Title  and  preliminaries,  5  leaves  ;  A — Y  in  fours  ;  "Tabla,"  14  leaves  ; 
"  Historia  de  la  Plata,"  A — K  in  twos  ;  "  Argentina,"  A — Hh  in  twos  ;  "  Discurso 
de  mi  Viage,"  A — F  in  fours;  "  Viage  de  Jerusalem,"  A — L  in  fours;  M — Q 
in  twos. 

BARON,  Robert.  'EPOTOnATNlON  Or  the  Cyprian  Academy. 
By  Robert  Baron  of  Grayes  Inne,  Gent.  Velle  proposse.  London, 
Printed  by  IV.  IV.  and  are  to  be  sold  by  J.  Hardesty,  T.  Huntington, 
and  T.  Jackson  at  their  Shops  in  Duck-lane.    1648.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

Portrait  and  engraved  frontispiece  by  W.  Marshall ;  title  and  preliminaries, 

1 2  leaves  ;  A— E  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank.    Part  ii.,  a — f  in  eights ;  G,  3  leaves. 

From  Mr.  George  Daniel's  collection.   The  book  is  dedicated  to  James  Howell, 


APPENDIX.  164s 

the  author  of  the  "  Epistola;  Ho-elianre."     In  the  "  Bibliotheca  Anglo- Poclica"  a 
letter  is  quoted  at  full,  in  which  Howell  thanks  his  nephew  for  the  dedication. 

The  last  piece  in  the  book  contains  some  curious  plagiarisms  from  Milton's 
"L'AUegro":— 

"let  no  cock 
His  matins  ring,  till  pomp,  and  revellry 
Have  tane  their  fills,  with  masque,  and  pagcntry,"  &c. 

BARREY,  LODOWICK.  Ram-Alley  Or,  Mcrry-Trickes.  A 
Comedy.  Divers  times  here-to-fore  acted.  By  the  Children  of  the 
Kings  Reuels.  Written  by  Lo.  Barrey.  London.  Printed  by  Jolin 
Norton  for  Robert  Wilson.     1636.     4to. 

A — I  in  fours. 

BASSANI,  Gio.  Battista.  Resi  Armonici  in  Motctti  A  Voce 
sola  con  Violini.  Da  Gio.  Battista  Bassani  Maestro  di  Capclla  della 
Cathedrale,  e  dcU'  Illustrissima  Accademia  della  Mortc  di  Fcrrara,  & 
Accademico  Filarmonico.  In  Anvcrsa,  Per  Henrico  Aertssens,  Stampa- 
tore  di  Musica,  air  hisegna  del  Monte  Parnasso.  1691.  4  vols.  4to. 
BL.  M. 

Parte  che  Canta,  half-title,  title,  and  pp.  i — 83.  Violino  primo,  pp.  i — 48, 
including  title.  Violino  secondo,  pp.  i — 47,  including  title.  Basso  continuo,  pp. 
I — 98,  including  title. 

BEAUMONT,  John.  The  Knight  of  the  Bvrning  Pestle.  Full 
of  Mirth  and  Delight.  Written  by  Francis  Beaumont  and  lohn 
Fletcher,  Gent.  As  it  is  now  acted  by  her  Maiesties  Servants  at  the 
Private  house  in  Drury  lane.  1635.  .  .  .  London:  Printed  by  N.  O.for 
I.  S.     1635.     4to. 

A  2 — K  4  in  fours.  There  were  two  impressions  this  year.  Both  omit  the 
dedication  by  Walter  Burre  to  Mr.  Robert  Cxsar,  found  only  in  the  first  edition 
of  1613. 

BECKET,  St.  Thomas  A.  The  Life  Or,  The  Ecclesiasticall  His- 
toric of  S.  Thomas  Archbishope  of  Canterbury.  Collonice.  \No  printer's 
namei]   M. DC. XXXIX.    Sm.  8vo.    Portrait  inserted,    bl.  m. 

a — u,  4  leaves  each,  the  first  leaf  blank  ;  aa — ee,  4  leaves  each  ;  ii,  i  leaf ;  A, 
7  leaves  ;  B — C[c]  7  in  eights. 

Dedicated  "To  the  Reverend  Father  in  God  Richard  Smyth  Bishop  of  Chal- 
cedone,  &c." 

BEEDOME,  Thomas.  Poems,  Divine,  And  Hvmane.  London, 
Printed  by  E.  P.  for  lohn  Sweeting,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  Ins  Shop,  at 
the  signe  of  the  Angel  in  Popcs-H cad- Alky,  necr  Cornehill.  1641. 
Sm.  8vo. 

A — C  in  eights  ;  D,  4  leaves  ;  E — I  2  in  eights. 

A  posthumous  publication,  with  an  address  to  the  reader  by  Henry  Glapthorne, 
the  poet  and  dramatist ;  and  complimentary  verses  by  Edward  May,  H.  Glapthorne, 
T.  Nabbes,  the  writei-'s  brother,  Francis  Beedome,  &:c. 

90 


1646  APPENDIX. 

This  is  the  book  from  which  Henry  Bold,  in  his  "Wit  a  Sporting,"  1657,  borrowed 
so  much. 

BELCHIER,  Dabridgecourt.  Hans  Beer-Pot  His  Invisible 
Comedie,  of  See  me,  and  See  me  not.  Acted  in  the  Low  Countries, 
by  an  honest  Company  of  Health-Drinkers.  .  .  .  London,  Imprinted 
by  Bernard  Alsop,  and  are  to  be  solde  at  his  house  by  Saint  Annes  Church 
neere  A  Idcrsgate,  1 6 1 8.     4to. 

A  2 — H  3  in  fours.  From  Mr.  Corser's  collection.  Dedicated  to  Sir  John  Ogle, 
Knight,  Colonel  of  an  English  regiment  of  foot  under  the  Estates  General  of  Holland, 
and  Governor  of  Utrecht. 

BELLEFOREST,  Fr.\NCOIS  DE.  L'Histoire  universelle  du 
monde,  contenant  I'entiere  description  &  situatio  des  quatre  parties 
de  la  terre,  la  division  &  estendue  d'vne  chacune  Region  &  Frouince 
d'icelles.  Ensemble  I'origine  &  particulieres  moeurs,  loix,  coustumes, 
relligion,  &  ceremonies  de  toutes  les  nations,  &  peuples  par  qui  elles 
sont  habitees.  Diuisee  en  quatre  liures.  Par  Francois  de  Belle- 
forest  Comingeois.  A  Paris,  Cliez  Geruais  Mallot,  al'Aigle  d'or,  me 
S.  Jean  de  Beaiiuais.     1570.     4to.     R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  19  leaves.  Pp.  i — 318.  "  Table "  and  "  Priuil^ge,"  13 
leaves. 

BENITEZ,  Fr.\NCISCO.  Relacion,  maravillosa,  y  vera  donde 
secuentan  algunos  de  los  milagros  calificados  que  Christo  Redentor 
nuestro  ha  obrado  en  la  villa  de  Zalamea,  sanando  c6  el  azeyte  de  su 
lapara  muchas  personas  de  males  incurables  con  otras  cosas  de  mucha 
deuocion.  Compuestas  por  Francisco  Benitez  Presbitero,  que  fue  en 
el  Ano  de  1604.  en  este  santo  Hospital,  juntamente  con  vn  Romance 
en  alaban^a  del  Santo  Christo  por  Lope  de  Vega.  Impressas  en 
Salavidca  En  casa  de  Antonia  Ramirez  vitida.     1609.     4to. 

Four  leaves.     Beneath  the  title  is  a  small  woodcut  of  the  Crucifixion. 

BERNARDO  DEL  CARPIO.  Cinco  Romances  de  la  Historia 
de  Bernardo  del  Carpio.     \_S.  I.  n.  a.'\     4to. 

Four  leaves.  Below  the  title  are  two  rude  cuts  of  a  knight  on  horseback  and  a 
mendicant.     It  was  probably  printed  at  Salamanca  about  1607. 

BERNI,  Francesco.  Orlando  Innamorato  nvovamente  composto 
da  M.  Francesco  Berni  Fiorentino.  Stauipato  in  Vinetia  per  gli  heredi 
di  Lncantonio  Giiinta.  Con  Priuilegio  dell'  Illustrissimo  Senato  Veneto 
per  anni.  X.  MDXXXXI.  [Colophon.]  Finiscono  li  ire  libri  de 
Orlando  Innamorato  Composto  da  M.  Francesco  Bcrni.  Stampati 
nouamente  In  Vcnclia per  li  heredi  di  Lncantonio  Giunta,  neV  anno  del 
Signore.     MDXLI.     nel  mese  di  Ottobrc.     4to.     R.  M. 

First  edition.  Folios  1-262,  besides  the  title  and  a  leaf  following  it,  which  is 
headed  "  L'.^lbicante." 


APPENDIX.  1647 

BERTRAM  THE  PRIEST.  The  bokc  of  Bartlira  Priest/  in- 
treatinge  of  thee  bodye  and  blonde  of  Christe,  wrytten  to  greate 
Charles  the  Emperoure,  and  set  forth  vii.  C.  yeares  a  goo,  and  Im- 
printed An.  dTii.  M.D.XLIX.  Cum  Priuilcgio  ad  Inipriinenduvt 
Solum.  Imprinted  at  London  in  Saynct  Andrcwcs  ParyssJtc  In  tlie 
Waredrop.  By  Thomas  Raynalde.  Sm.  8vo.  Black  letter,  bl.  m. 
A — C  in  eights.     First  edition. 

BIBLIA  LATINA.  Proverbia  Salamonis.  Ecclesiastes.  Cantica 
Canticorum.  Liber  Sapicntie.  Ecclesiasticus.  Oratio  Salamonis. 
Epistolce  Sancti  Pauli.  Epistola  Sancti  Jacobi.  Epistolce  Sancti 
Petri.    Epistolae  Sancti  Johannis.   Epistola  Sancti  Jude.    Sm.    Folio. 

MS.  of  the  end  of  the  fifteenth  century.  Of  French  execution.  Written  on  138 
leaves  of  vellum.  The  text,  which  is  in  a  small  Gothic  hand,  is  a  marvel  of  calligraphy. 
It  is  ornamented  with  six  small  miniatures,  representing  the  writers  of  the  Epistles, 
and  a  number  of  large  and  small  initial  letters,  very  beautifully  executed. 

BIRON,  C  DE  GoNTAUT  DE.  A  True  and  perfect  Discourse  of 
the  practises  and  Treasons  of  Marshall  Biron  :  Together  with  the 
particulars  of  his  Arraignment  and  E.xccution.  Faithfully  translated 
out  of  the  French.  Printed  at  London  by  P.  S.  1602.  4to.  Black 
letter.     Portrait  by  T.  de  Leu.     br.  m. 

A — C  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank.  The  portrait  counts  as  the  first  leaf  of 
sig.  A. 

This  copy  is  illustrated  with  eleven  extra  plates,  including  portraits  of  Henry 
IV.  by  Gaultier,  Louis  XIII.,  Dae  D'Epernon,  Marie  de  Medicis,  &c. ;  also  views 
of  the  Chateau  de  Noizy  and  the  Tuileries,  by  Silvestre. 

BISHOP,  Geo.  New  England  Judged,  Not  by  Man's,  but  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  :  And  The  Summe  sealed  up  of  New-England's 
persecutions.  Being  A  Brief  Relation  of  the  Sufferings  of  the  People 
called  Quakers  in  those  Parts  of  America,  from  the  beginning  of  the 
Fifth  Moneth  1656.  (the  time  of  their  first  Arrival  at  Boston  from 
England)  to  the  later  end  of  the  Tenth  Moneth.  1660.  .  .  .  By  George 
Bishope.  London,  Printed  for  Robert  Wilson,  in  Martins  Le  Grand. 
1 66 1.    4to. 

A — Y  in  fours.  This  is  the  first  part,  as  originally  published  by  itself;  a  second 
and  third  portion,  with  an  Appendix,  was  subsequently  added. 

BLOCK,  M.  E.     Ichthyologie,  ou  histoire  naturelle,  generale  et 
particuliere  des  Poissons,  avec  des  figures  enluminees,  dessinees  d'apres 
nature.    Berlin,  ijgs-97-     12  parts  in  8  vols.     Folio.     The  edges  uncut. 
432  elaborately  coloured  plates  heightened  with  silver. 

BOLSA.  Obra  llamada,  Los  trabajos  que  passa  la  triste  dc  la 
Bolsa.     Aora  nueuamente,  para  reyr  y  passar  tiempo.     [S.  I.  n.  a\ 

4to. 

Four  leaves.     Below  the  title  are  four  rude  woodcut  figures.    The  title  appears 


1648  APPENDIX. 

to  want  the  word  "  stampata  "  after  "  nueuamente."     The  tract  is  in  verse,  and  is  a 
dialogue  betwixt  a  purse,  a  gallant,  and  a  lady. 

BOSSEWELL,  John.  Workes  of  Armoric  deuided  into  three 
Bookes,  entituled,  the  Concordes  of  Armorie,  the  Armorie  of  Honor, 
and  of  Cotes  and  Creastes,  Collected  and  gathered  by  lohn  Bosscwell 
Gentleman.  At  London  Printed  by  Hcnrie  Ballard,  dwelling  vjithont 
Teinple-barre,  over  against  Saint  Clements  Church,  at  tlie  signe  of  the 
Bearc.     An.  Do.  i^()y.     4to.     Black  letter.      Woodcuts. 

^,  4  leaves  ;  A— C  in  eights  ;  D— H  h  in  fours.  The  "  Third  Book,"  A— C  in 
eights  ;  D,  6  leaves. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  William  Cecil. 

BOURDIGNE,  Jean  DE.  Hystoire  agregatiue  des  Annalles  et 
cronicques  Daniou,  contenant  le  commencement  et  origine,  auecques 
partie  des  cheualeureux  et  marciaulx  gestes  Des  magnanimes  princes, 
consulz,  contes  et  ducz  Daniou.  Et  pareillement  plusieurs  faictz 
dignes  de  memoire,  aduenuz  tant  en  France,  Italic,  Espaigne,  Angle- 
terre,  Hierusalem  et  autres  royaulmes  tant  chrestiens  que  sarrazins, 
Depuis  le  temps  du  deluge  iusques  a  present,  tres  vtille,  proffitable  et 
recreatiue  a  tous  nobles  et  uertueux  espritz.  Recueillies  et  mises  en 
forme  par  noble  et  Discret  missire  Jehan  de  bourdigne  prestre,  docteur 
cs  droictz,  et  Depuis  rcueues  et  additionnees  par  le  Viateur.  Avec 
privilege.  On  les  uend  a  Anglers  en  la  boutique  De  Charles  de  boingne 
et  Clement  alexandre  marchans  libraircs  iurez  de  hnmiersite  du  dit  lieu. 
[Colophon.]  Fin  des  Annalles  &  cronicques  des  pays  Daniou  et  du 
Maine.  Nouuellement  impritnees  a  Paris  par  Anthoyne  conteau  iinpri- 
ineur.  Pour  honncstcs  personnes  Charles  de  boigne,  et  Clement  alexandre, 
inarcha}ts  libraircs  Demourans  a  Anglers.  Et  furent  acheuees  de  iin- 
primer  au  moys  de  Januicr.  Lan  Mil  cinq  cens.  XXIX.  Folio.  Black 
letter. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  folios  i — ccvii ;  and  a  leaf  bearing  the  device 
of  Galliot  du  Pre. 

BRANDON,  Richard.  The  Confession  of  Richard  Brandon  The 
Hangman  (upon  his  Death-bed)  concerning  His  beheading  his  late 
Majesty,  Charles  the  first,  King  of  Great  Brittain ;  and  his  Protes- 
tation and  Vow  touching  the  same  ;  the  manner  how  he  was  terrified 
in  Conscience ;  the  Apparitions  and  Visions  which  appeared  unto  him  ; 
the  great  judgment  that  befell  him  three  days  before  he  dy'd  ;  and 
the  manner  how  he  was  carryed  to  White-ChappcU  Church-yard  on 
Thursday  night  last ;  the  strange  Actions  that  happened  thereupon  ; 
With  the  merry  conceits  of  the  Crowne  cook,  and  his  providing 
mourning  Cords  for  the  Buriall.  Printed  in  the  year  Year,  of  the  Hang- 
mans  down-fall,  1649.    4to. 

Four  leaves,  witli  a  woodcut  on  the  title. 


A  PPENDIX.  1649 

BRAVO,  ChrisTOVAL.  Aqui  sc  conticnc  vna  obra  vtil  y  prouc- 
chosa,  de  reprehension  contra  el  pcccado  de  la  Luxuria.  Y  assi  mismo 
contra  los  gulososy  blasphemadores.  La  presente  obra  fue  conipucsta 
per  Christoual  Brauo,  priiiado  de  la  vista  corporal,  natural  de  la  ciudad 
de  Cordoua.  Para  que  esta  mi  obra  y  las  de  mas  sean  corregidas  y 
cnmendadas,  las  someto  y  pongo  debaxo  del  greniio  y  correccion  de 
la  sancta  madre  Iglesia  Catholica,  y  de  sus  ministros.  Iniprcssas  con 
licciicia  ai  Cticnca  en  casa  de  Bartholoiiie  de  Selina,  Afio  dc  1603.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  metre. 

On  the  title  is  a  rude  woodcut  of  a  king  and  queen  on  horseback,  with  atten- 
dants. 

BRAYLEY,  E.,  and  John  BRITTON.  A  Topographical  History 
of  Surrey.   The  Geological  Section,  by  Gideon  Mantell  .  .  The  Illus- 
trative Department   under  the  Superintendence  of  Thomas  Allom. 
Dorking  and  London,  i'i>^\.    5  vols.    4to.    Plates.    R.  M. 
An  original  copy,  with  the  illuminated  titles. 

BROME,  Richard.  The  Antipodes :  A  Comedie.  Acted  in  the 
yeare  1638.  by  the  Queenes  Majesties  Servants,  at  Salisbury  Court  in 
Fleet-street.  The  Author  Richard  Brome.  London :  Printed  by  J. 
Okcs,  for  Francis  Constable,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shops  in  Kings- 
street  at  tlie  signe  of  the  Goat,  and  in  Westminster-hall.     1640.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours. 

First  edition.  Dedicated  "  To  the  Right  Honourable  William  Earle  of  Hert- 
ford," &c.     With  commendatory  verses  by  Robert  Chamberlaine  and  C.  G. 

At  the  end  of  the  play  occurs  this  curious  note  by  Brome  :  "  Courteous  Reader, 
You  shal  finde  in  this  Booke  more  then  was  presented  upon  the  Stage,  and  left  out 
of  the  Presentation,  for  superfluous  length  (as  some  of  the  Players  pretended).  I 
thoght  good  it  should  be  inserted  according  to  the  allowed  Original  ;  and  as  it  was, 
at  first,  intended  for  the  Cock-pit  Stage,  in  the  right  of  my  most  deserving  Friend 
Mr.  William  Beeston,  unto  whom  it  properly  appertained  .  .  ." 

The   Sparagvs   Garden  :    A  Comedie.    Acted  in  the  yeere 

1625.  by  the  then  Company  of  Revels,  at  Salisbury  Court.  The 
Author  Richard  Brome,  Hie  totus  volo  videat  libellns.  Mart.  London  : 
Printed  by  J.  Okcs,  for  Francis  Constable,  .  .  .   1 640.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours. 

First  edition.  Dedicated  "  To  the  Right  Honourable  William  Earle  of  New- 
Castle,  &c.  Governour  to  the  Prince  his  Highnesse." 

A  Joviall  Crew :   Or,  The  Merry  Beggars.    Presented  in  a 

Comedie,  at  the  Cock-pit  in  Drury-Lane,  in  the  year  1641.  Written 
by  Richard  Brome.  .  .  .  London :  Printed  by  J.  T.  for  E.  D.  and 
N.  E.  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  Gun  in  Ivy-Lane,  1652.    4to. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  a,  2  leaves  ;  B — O  in  fours. 

First   edition.     Dedicated   "To   the  Right   Noble,   Ingenious,  and   Judicious 


i650  APPENDIX. 

Gentleman,  Thomas  Stanley,  Esq."    There  are  commendatory  verses  by  John 
Hall,  James  Shirley,  John  Tatham,  Alexander  Brome,  (S:c. 

BROME,  Richard.    The  Oueenes  Exchange,  A  Comedy  Acted 
with  generall  applause  at  the  Black-Friers  By  His  Majesties  Servants. 
Written  by  Mr.  Richard  Brome,  Regia  res  amor  est.    Londofi,  Printed 
for  Henry  Bronte  at  the  Hand  in  Pauls  ChurcJi-yard.     1657.    4to. 
A,  2  leaves  ;  B — G  2  in  fours.     First  edition. 

BROMHALL,  Thomas.  A  Treatise  of  Specters.  Or,  An  History 
of  Apparitions,  Oracles,  Prophecies,  and  Predictions,  With  Dreams, 
Visions,  and  Revelations.  And  the  Cunning  Delusions  of  the  Devil, 
to  strengthen  the  Idolatry  of  the  Gentiles,  and  the  Worshipping  of 
Saints  departed ;  With  the  Doctrine  of  Purgatory.  A  Work  very 
seasonable  for  discovering  the  Impostors  and  Religious  Cheats  of 
these  Times.  Collected  out  of  sundry  Authours  of  great  Credit ;  And 
delivered  into  English  from  their  several  Originals,  By  T.  B.  whereunto 
is  annexed,  A  Learned  Treatise,  comprising  the  Opinions  of  the 
Sadduces  and  Epicures,  (denying  the  appearing  of  Angels  and  Devils 
to  Men)  with  the  Arguments  of  those  that  deny  that  Angels  and 
Devils  can  assume  Bodily  shapes.  Written  in  French,  and  now  ren- 
dred  into  English  ....  London,  Printed  by  John  Streater,  dwelling 
in  Well-Yard,  near  the  Hospital  of  S.  Bartholomew  tlie  Lesse,   1658. 

Folio. 

A,  3  leaves  (?  A  4  blank) ;  B — 3  Rr  in  fours. 

BROOKE,  Ralph.  A  Discoverie  of  Certaine  Errovrs  Pvblished 
in  print  in  the  much  commended  Britannia.  1594.  Very  preiudiciall 
to  the  discentes  and  successions  of  the  auncient  Nobilitie  of  this 
Realme.  By  Yorke  Herault  .  .  .  {No  plaee,  printer's  name,  or  date.'] 
[Zw/^t;;/,  1595  .']    4to. 

A — L  in  fours,  followed  by  four  leaves  numbered  i  to  4,  with  "  lohn  Leylands 
new  yeeres  Gyft,  giuen  of  him  to  King  Henrie  the  .  viii.  in  the  .  37.  yeere  of  his 
reigne,  concerning  his  laborious  lorney  and  search  for  Englands  antiquities." 
These  leaves  are  frequently  wanting. 

The  title-page  to  the  present  volume  was  printed  twice.  The  other  title  reads  : 
"A  Uiscouerie  of  diuers  errors,"  &c. 

BROOK,  Lord.  The  Five  Yeares  of  King  lames.  Or,  The  Con- 
dition of  the  State  of  England,  and  the  Relation  it  had  to  other  Pro- 
vinces. Written  by  S'  Fvlke  Grcvill,  late  Lord  Brook.  London, 
Printed  for  IV.  P.  in  tlieyeare,  1643.     4to. 

A — L  3  in  fours. 

BROWNE,  Sir  T.     Religio  Medici.     P rinted for  Andrew  Crooke. 
1642.     Sm.  8vo.     Engraved  title  by  ]V.  Ilarshatl.     K.  M. 
A— K  in  eights,  and  the  title-page.    First  edition. 


APPENDIX.  1G51 

BUGG,  Francis.  News  from  Pensylvania :  Or  a  Brief  Narrative 
of  Several  Remarkable  Passages  in  the  Government  of  the  Quakers  in 
that  Province.  Touching  their  Proceedings  in  their  Pretended  Courts 
of  Justice;  their  Way  of  Trade  and  Commerce;  with  Remarks  and 
Observations  upon  the  whole.  Published  by  the  Author  of  the  Pilgrim  s 
Progress,  Sic.  London  :  Printed,  and  Sold  by  the  Booksellers.  1703. 
Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  following  leaf,  and  B — D  3  in  eights.  The  whole  is  in  prose,  except  a 
"  Paper  of  verses"  upon  W.  Penn,  occupying  A  2. 

BULLINGER,  Henry.  A  Treatise  of  the  Cohabitacyon  of  the 
faithfull  with  the  vnfaithfull.  Whereunto  is  added  A  Scrm.on  made 
of  the  confessing  of  Christe  and  his  gospell/  and  of  the  denyinge  of 
the  same.  Atmo  M.D.LV.  [Quotation  from  Apocal.  18.]  \_No  place 
or  printer  s  uatne.]     Sm.  8vo.     Black  letter. 

A — L  6  in  eights. 

The  Sermon  commences  on  sig.  I  2  with  a  head-line  :  "  A  Sermon  of  the  true 
confessinge  of  Christe/  and  the  truithe  of  the  gospell  :  and  of  the  foule  denyinge  of 
the  same/  made  in  the  conuocation  of  the  clergie  at  Zurich  the  28.  daye  of  Januarie 
in  the  yeare  of  the  lorde,  1555.     By  H.[enryj  B.[ullinger]." 

BUNYAN,  John.     The  Water  of  Life :  or,  a  Discourse  shewing 

the  Richness  and  Glory  of  the  Grace  and  Spirit  of  the  Gospel,  as  set 

forth  in  Scripture  by  this  Term,  The  Water  of  Life.    By  John  Bunyan. 

London,  Printed  for  Natlianael  Ponder.  .....   1688.     Sm. 

8vo.     BL.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — I  2  in  eights.     First  edition. 

BURGMAIER,  Hans.  Le  Triomphe  de  I'Empereur  Maximilien 
I""'  en  une  suite  de  cent  trente  cinq  planches  gravees  en  bois  d'apres 
les  dessins  de  Hans  Burgmaier,  accompagnees  de  I'ancienne  descrip- 
tion dictde  par  I'Empereur  a  son  Secretaire.      Vioine.     1796.     Atlas 

folio. 

This  is  one  of  the  few  copies  which  were  printed  on  thick  paper. 

BURNELL,  Henry.    Landgartha.    A  Tragie-Comedy,  as  it  was 

presented  in  the  new  Theater  in  Dublin,  with  good  Applause,  being 

an  Ancient  Story.     Written  by  H.  B Printed  at  Dublin,  Anno 

1 64 1.     4to. 

A — K  I  in  fours. 

BUTLER,  Captain.  The  Apprehending  of  Captayne  Bvtler  at 
Portchmouth  in  the  County  of  Southampton  and  his  followers  ;  who 
were  bound  with  bullets  and  ammunition  for  Ireland,  in  the  Ship  called 
the  Olive.  As  also  the  true  relation  of  a  terrible  Sea  fight  by  the 
States  of  Holland,  against  a  Fleet  of  the  Spannish,  being  furnished 
with  men  and  ainmunition  for  assistance  to  the  Rebels  in  Ireland. 
Wherein  was  taken  23  sayle  of  their  Ships,  as  also  their  Vice-admirall 


1652  APPENDIX. 

Don  Eaustano  sonne  to  the  Cardinall  Saint  Low  the  King  of  Spaines 
Nephew.    With  a  Coppy  of  their  Commission  against  the  Protestants  ; 
signed  unto  by  the  great  Signet.     With  the  names  of  the  Rebells  now 
in  Newgate.     London,  Printed  for  F.  C.  and  T.  B.     1641.     4to. 
Four  leaves.    A  woodcut  on  the  back  of  the  title 


C,  T.  An  Hospitall  for  the  Diseased.  Wherein  are  to  be  founde 
most  excellent  and  approued  medicines,  as  well  Emplaisters  of  speciall 
vertue,  as  also  notable  Potions  or  Drinkes  .  .  .  Newly  augmented  and 
enlarged.  Gathered  by  T.  C.  At  London  Printed  by  E.  Allde  for 
Edward  White.  .  .  .  1598.     4to. 

A — G  in  fours. 

CALLENDER,  John.  An  Historical  Discourse  on  the  Civil  and 
Religious  Affairs  of  the  Colony  of  Rhode-Island  and  Providence 
Plantations  in  New-England  in  America.  From  the  first  Settlement 
1638,  to  the  End  of  first  Century  .  .  .  Boston:  Printed  and  Sold  by 
S.  Kneeland  and  T.  Green  in  Qnecn-Street.     1739.     8vo. 

A — R  in  fours.  Dedicated  to  the  Honourable  William  Coddington,  Esquire, 
from  Newport  on  Rhode-Island,  October  27th,  1738. 

CANCIONERO    GENERAL:    qve  contiene  mvchas  obras  de 
diuersos  autores  antiguos,  con  algunas  cosas  nueuas  de  modernos,  de 
nueuo  corregido  y  impresso.    En  Anvers,  En  casa  de  Martin  Nucio,  a 
la  ensciia  de  los  dos  Cignenas.  M.D.L  VII.     Sm.  8vo.     R.  M. 
Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  fohos  i-ccccij. 

Cancionero  general : En  Anvers.    En  casa  dc  Philifpo 

Nucio Ario  M.D.L XX II.     Sm.  8vo.     R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  folios  i.-cccl.xxxvi. 

CARLELL,  LODOWICK.  The  Deseruing  Fauorite.  As  it  was 
lately  Acted,  first  before  the  King's  Maiestie,  and  since  publikely  at 
the  Black-Friers.  By  his  Maiesties  Seruants.  Written  by  Lodowicke 
Carlell,  Esquire,  Gentleman  of  the  Bowes,  and  Groome  of  the  King 
and  Oueenes  Priuie  Chamber.  At  London,  Printed  for  Matthew 
Rhodes.     1629.    4to. 

The  first  leaf  blank.     A — N  3  in  fours.     First  edition. 

The  Passionate  Lovers,  A  Tragi-Comcdy.     The  First  and 


Second  Parts.   Twice  presented  before  the  King  and  Queens  Majesties 
at  Somerset-House,  and  very  often  at  the  Private  House  in  Black- 


APPENDIX.  1653 

Friars,  with  great  Applause.     Written    by  Lodowick  Carlcll,  Gent, 
London,  Printed  for  HiiDipIirey  Moselcy,  .  .  .   1655.    410. 
A  2 — X  3  in  fours.     First  edition. 

CARMARDEN,  Richard.  A  Caveat  for  the  Qucne  wherin  is 
declared  dyvers  Deceypts  used  towards  hur  Highnesse  by  hur  Majesties 
Officers  appoynted  for  the  receypts  of  hur  Customes  in  the  Poorte  of 
London  to  the  greate  hinderaunce  of  hur  Ma""  and  spoyling  of  hur 
Subiects  And  therwithal  is  nooted  how  little  to  hur  benefitt  the  lettinge 
of  the  same  to  ferme  doeth  serue.  compiled  by  Richad  Carmarden. 
Where  no  hedge  is,  there  the  possession  is  spoyled.  Eccle.  cap  39.  In 
London  the  12""  day  of  Septembre  A".  1572. 

Sixty  pages  of  manuscript  on  vellum,  in  the  original  vellum  binding,  with  the 
arms  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  her  cipher  on  the  sides.  The  date  has  been  altered, 
probably  by  the  author,  from  1572  to  1582. 

A  secret  information  to  the  Queen,  which  the  author  begs  her  to  communicate  to 
no  one  else,  lest  his  life  should  fall  in  danger.  It  is  probably  the  only  extant  copy 
of  a  document  important  for  the  history  of  English  finance  and  polity  in  EUzabeth's 
time  ;  and  moreover  interesting  as  a  memorial  of  that  Queen's  library. 

A  final  memorandum,  added  at  the  end  to  excuse  the  staleness  of  the  date,  gives 
the  author's  address  as  "  St.  Mary  Hill  Lane  by  Billingsgate." 

CARRASCO,  Joan  Fernandez.  Relacion  verdadera  de  vn  caso 
que  sucedioen  el  mes  de  lunio  deste  aiio  de  1608.  en  Aldeanuaua  dela 
Vera  con  vna  muger,  a  quien  engano  el  demonio  que  renegasse  de  la 
Virgen  Maria,  y  como  despues  de  algunos  sucessos  se  entro  en  ella,  y 
la  atormento  hasta  que  en  S.  Hieronimo  el  Imperial  de  Yuste  vnos 
religiosos  del  mismo  monesterio  se  le  sacaron  dando  per  serial  de  su 
salida  vn  ochauo,  con  vna  letra  al  fin  de  ellas.  Compuestas  por  loan 
Fernandez  Carrasco  vezino  de  laraez.     Con  liceneia.    \S.  I.  n.  «.]    4to. 

Four  leaves.  In  verse.  Under  the  title  is  a  small  woodcut  of  an  ecclesiastic 
seated,  holding  a  scroll,  on  which  is  engraved  "  Gracia.  Dei."  in  large  capitals. 

CARTER,  Matthew.  Honor  rediuiuus  or  An  analysis  of  Hono' 
and  Armory  by  Matt:  Carter  Esq  ;  London,  printed  by  E.  Coates. 
1655.     8vo.     Plates  and  luoodcuts. 

Engraved  title  and  preliminaries,  J  leaves  ;  B — G  4  in  eights  ;  an  engraved 
shield  of  arms  with  the  motto  A  Posse  ad  Esse,  i  leaf;  A — L  in  eights.  There  are 
plates  in  the  first  portion  separate  from  the  letterpress,  at  pp.  42,  50,  51,  54,  56,  58. 

CEVALLOS,  Balthasar.  Aqui  se  contiene  vn  caso  gracioso, 
succedido  en  la  ciudad  de  Constantinopla,  entrc  vn  Christiano,  y  vn 
hermano  suyo,  que  en  aquella  ciudad  estaua  captiuo,  naturales  de  la 
ciudad  de  Lisboa,  y  los  ludios  de  Constantinopla.  Compuesto  por 
Balthasar  Ceuallos,  ^  impresso  con  liceneia  en  Logroflo,  por  Inan  de 
Mongaston,  Ailo  de  1606.     4to. 

Four  leaves.  In  verse.  A  woodcut  of  a  man  with  a  cardinal's  hat  on  each  side 
of  him  is  beneath  this  title.     The  text  begins  on  the  s.ame  page. 

9i> 


1 654  APPENDIX. 

CHAMBERLAINE,  Robert.  The  Swaggering  Damsell.  A 
Comedy.  Written  by  R.  C.  London,  Printed  by  Tho.  Cotes,  for  Andreiv 
Crooke,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  kis  Shop,  at  the  Greene  Dragon,  in  Pauls 
Church-yard.    1640.    4to. 

A — I  in  fours.     Title  on  A  2. 

CHAMBERLAINE,  William.  Love's  Victory:  A  Tragi- 
comedy.    By  William  Chamberlaine  of  Shaftsbury  in  the  County  of 

Dorset London  :    Printed  by  E.    Cotes,   and  are  to  be  sold  by 

Robert  Clavell  at  the  Stags-head  neer  St.  Gregorics  Church  in  St.  Pauls- 
church-yard.     1658.     4to. 

A — M  in  fours.     First  edition.     Dedicated  to  Sir  William  Portman,  Baronet. 

CHAPMAN,  George.  Caesar  and  Pompey  :  A  Roman  Tragedy, 
declaring  their  Warres.  Out  of  whose  euents  is  enacted  this  Proposi- 
tion. Only  a  iust  man  is  a  freeman.  By  George  Chapman.  London: 
Printed  by  Thomas  Harper,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Godfrey  Emondson, 
and  Thomas  Alchorne.     M.DC.XXXI.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — K  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  "  my  exceeding  good  Lord,  the  Earl  of  Middlesex." 

CHEAPSIDE  CROSS.  The  Resolution  of  the  Round-Heads  to 
pull  downe  Cheap-side  Crosse.  Being  a  zealous  Declaration  of  the 
Grievances  wherewith  their  little  Wits  are  consumed  to  destruction. 

Wherein   is  explained    every   particular   therein   contained 

against  them,  with  many  godly  Counsells  to  Doctor  Little-wit :  and 
the  composer  of  their  former  scurrilous  and  illiterate  Pamphlet. 
London,  Printed  1641.     4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  prose  and  verse. 

CHETTLE,  Henry.  The  Tragedy  of  Hoffman  Or  A  Reuenge 
for  a  Father.  As  it  hath  bin  diucrs  times  acted  with  great  applause, 
at  the  Phenix  in  Drury-lane.  London,  Printed  by  I.  N.  for  Hugh 
Perry,  and  are  to  bee  sold  at  his  shop,  at  the  signe  of  the  Harroiv  in 
Brittaincs-burse.    1631.     4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — K  in  fours. 

CID.  Chronica  del  Famoso  Cavallero  Cid  Ruy  Diez  Campeador. 
Con  Licencia.  En  Burgos.  En  la  Iniprinicria  de  Philippe  de  Junta  y 
Juan  Baptista  Varesio.    1593.     Folio. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  22  leaves  ;  A — V  7  in  eights. 

For  an  account  of  the  differences  between  this  edition  and  that  of  15 12,  see 
Gallardo,  "  Ensayo  de  una  Biblioteca  Espanola,"  pp.  654-5. 

Aqui  se  contienen  seys  Romances  del  Cid  Ruy  Diaz  de  Viuar. 

El  primero,  cuydando  Diego  Laynez.  El  segundo,  Consolando  al 
noble  viejo.    El  tercero,  En  los  solares  de  Burgos.    El  quarto,  Pidiendo 


APPENDIX.  1655 

a  las  diez  del  dia.     El  quinto,  Victorioso  buelue  cl  Cid.     El  sexto,  El 
Vassallo  dcsleal.  Agora  nucuamcntciinpressos coii  Licciicia.  [1608.]  410. 
Four  leaves.     Beneath  the  title  are  two  small  cuts  of  a  knight  on  horseback  and 
a  lion  rampant.     On  the  verso  of  the  last  leaf  is  another  cut  of  a  lion  rampant. 

CITOYS,  F.  A  True  and  admirable  Historic,  of  a  Maydcn  of 
Confolens,  in  the  Prouince  of  Poitcicrs  :  that  for  the  space  of  three 
yeares  and  more  hath  lined,  and  yet  doth,  without  cither  meate  or 
drinke.  Of  whom,  his  Maiestie  in  person  hath  had  the  view,  and,  (by 
his  commaund)  his  best  and  chifest  Phisitians,  hauc  tryed  all  meancs, 
to  find,  whether  this  fast  &  abstinence  be  by  deceit  or  no.  In  this 
Historic  is  also  discoursed,  whether  a  man  may  fast  many  daycs, 
moneths  or  yceres,  without  receiuing  any  sustenance.  Published  by 
the  Kings  especiall  Priuilege.  At  London,  Printed  by  I.  Roberts,  and 
are  to  be  solde  at  his  house  in  Barbican,  Anno  Doni.  1603.     8vo.    G.  M. 

f ,  4  leaves  ;  A — O  in  fours  ;  O  4  blank. 

Dedicated  by  A.[nthony]  M.[unday]  "  To  the  Worshipfull,  M.  Thomas  Thorney, 
Maister.  M.  William  Martin,  M.  Edward  Rodes,  and  M.  Thomas  Martin,  Gouernours 
of  the  misterie  and  cominaltie  of  the  Barber  Chirurgians." 

CIVIL  WAR  TRACTS.  A  volume  containing  the  undermen- 
tioned pieces.     London,  \6^\-<^.     4to.     R. 

1.  Old  Newes  newly  Revived  :  Or,  the  discovery  of  all  occurrences  happened 
since  the  beginning  of  the  Parliament.  1641.  Four  leaves.  With  a  large  woodcut 
on  the  title. 

2.  The  Decoy  Duck  :  Together  with  the  Discovery  of  the  Knot  in  the  Dragons 

Tayle 1642.     Four  leaves.     With  a  large  cut  on  the  title,  and  a  second  on 

the  last  leaf.     Partly  in  verse. 

3.  The  Brownists  Conventicle  :  Or  an  assemble  of  Brownists,  Separatists,  and 

Non-Conformists, As  it  was  lately  performed  by  one  A.  Greene  the  afore- 

sayd  Felt-maker,  the  wyer-drawer  in  Foster-lane,  and  a  learned  Clarke  of  the 
Customehouse.  1641.  Black  letter.  Four  leaves.  With  a  large  woodcut  on  the 
title. 

4.  New  Orders,  New,  Agreed  upon  by  the  Parliament  of  Rovnd-Heads.  Con- 
firmed by  the  Brethren  of  the  New  Separation  assembled  at  Round-heads-Hall 
without  Cripple-gate.     1642.     Four  leaves. 

5.  The  Resolution  of  the  Round-Heads  :  Being  a  Zealous  Declaration  of  the 
Grievances  wherewith  their  Little  Wits  are  consumed  to  Destruction.    Four  leaves. 

6.  St.  Hillaries  Teares London,  Printed  Anno.  Domini   1642.     Four 

leaves. 

7.  The  Joviall  Tinker  of  England  :  Willing  to  Hammer  the  Covenant  and  Scots 
Commissioners  into  English.     1648.    Eight  leaves. 

8.  A  Most  Learned,  Conscientious,  and  Devout-Exercise  ;  held  forth  the  last 
Lords-day,  at  Sir  Peter  Temples,  in  Lincolnes-Inne-Fields  ;  By  Lieut-Generall 
Cromwell  :  As  it  was  faithfully  taken  in  Characters  By  Aaron  Guerdgu.  1649. 
Eight  leaves. 

CIVIL   WAR   TRACTS.     Printed  at  London,  1641-1660.    4to. 
I.  A  Conspiracie  of  the  twelve  Bishops  in  the  Tower,  1641.     A  woodcut  on  the 
last  leaf.     4  leaves. 


1656  APPENDIX. 

2.  A  Discoverie  of  Six  women  preachers,  in  Middlesex,  Kent,  Cambridgshire, 
and  Salisbury.    1641.     4  leaves. 

3.  A  Discovery  Of  29,  Sects  here  in  London,  1641.     4  leaves. 

4.  A  Diurnall  of  Sea  Designes,  which  is  as  strange  as  true.    1642.     4  leaves. 

5.  A  Happy  Deliverance,  or  A  Wonderful  Preservation  of  foure  Worthy  and 
Honourable  Peeres  of  this  Kingdome,  and  some  others.    1641.     4  leaves. 

6.  A  Nest  of  Serpents  Discovered.    1641.    4  leaves. 

7.  A  Parallell  Betweene  the  late  troubles  in  Scotland,  and  the  present  troubles 
in  England,  1642.     4  leaves. 

8.  A  Plot  Lately  discovered  for  the  taking  of  the  Tower,  by  Negromancie,  1641. 
4  leaves. 

9.  A  Plott  against  the  Citie  of  London  discovered.    1641.     4  leaves. 

10.  A  Preter-pluperfect  Spick  and  Span  New  Nocturnall,  or  Mercuries  Weekly 
Night-Newes  ;  [«.  (/.]     10  leaves. 

11.  A  Trve  Relation  Of  a  Company  of  Brownists,  Separatists,  and  Non-Con- 
formists, In  Monmouthshire  in  Wales.    1641.     4  leaves. 

12.  A  True  Relation  of  the  French  Embassage,  1641.     4  leaves. 

13.  A  True  Relation  of  the  most  wise  and  worthy  Speech  made  by  Captain  Ven, 

1641.  4  leaves. 

14.  A  True  Remonstrance  of  the  Vpright  Apprentices  of  London,  1642.  4 
leaves. 

15.  Ad  Nobilem  Britannium.  Or  an  Abstract  for  Englands  Royall  Peeres.  1641. 
4  leaves. 

16.  An  Answer  to  the  Booke  called  Observations  of  the  old  and  new  Militia: 

1642.  4  leaves. 

17.  Articles  of  High  Treason,  made  And  Enacted  by  the  late  Half-Quarter 
Usurping  Convention  :  And  now  presented  to  publick  view,  for  general  satisfaction 
of  all  True  English-Men  ;  With  a  Petition  or  Remonstrance  from  the  Shentlemen 
of  Wales.     [«.  (/.]    4  leaves. 

18.  Canterburies  Amazement:  or  The  Ghost  of  the  yong  fellow  Thomas  Bensted, 
who  was  Drawne,  Hangd,  and  Quartered  by  the  meanes  of  the  Bishop  of  Canter- 
burie ;  who  appeared  to  him  in  the  Tower,  since  the  lesuites  Execution.  1641. 
Woodcuts.    4  leaves. 

19.  Cheap-side  Crosse  censured  and  condemned.    1641.     8  leaves. 

20.  News  from  Hell,  Rome,  and  the  Innes  of  Court.    1642.     14  leaves. 

21.  New  Orders  new,  Agreed  upon  by  the  Parliament  of  Round-heads.  1642. 
4  leaves. 

22.  Policy,  no  Policy :  or,  the  Devil  Himself  confuted.    1660.    4  leaves. 

23.  Rump  Enough  :  or.  Quaere  for  Qua?re,  1659.     4  leaves. 

24.  Scintilla,  or  A  Light  Broken  into  darke  Warehouses.    1641.     4  leaves. 

25.  The  Anatomy  of  Et  Cictera.    1641.     4  leaves. 

26.  The  Apprentices  of  Londons  Petition.    1641.     4  leaves. 

27.  The  Bishops  Mittimus  to  goe  to  Bedlam.    1641.     4  leaves. 

28.  TheBrownistHxresiesconfutedtheir  Knavery  anatomized, &c.,  1641.  4leaves. 

29.  The  Impeachment  and  Articles  of  Complaint  against  Father  Philips.  1641. 
4  leaves. 

30.  The  Open  Mouth  of  Balaams  Asse.    1642.     4  leaves. 

31.  The  Popes  Proclamation:   1641.     4  leaves. 

32.  The  Proctor  and  Parator  their  Mourning  :  1641.  A  woodcut  on  tke  title.  8 
leaves. 

33.  The  Reformado,  Precisely  Charactered  by  a  Transformed  Church-warden, 
at  a  Vestry,  London.    1643.     'o  leaves. 

34.  The  Resolution  of  the  Round- Heads  :  1642.     4  leaves. 


APPENDIX.  iG^j 

35.  The  Round-Heads  Remembrancer  :   1643.     4  leaves. 

36.  The  Seamans  Protestation.  Concerning,  Their  Ebbing  and  Flowing  to  and 
from  the  ParUament  House,  1642.     4  leaves. 

37.  The  Sermon  and  Prophecieof  Mr.  James  Hunt  of  the  County  of  Kent.  1641. 
4  leaves. 

38.  The  Speech  of  a  Warden  To  the  Fellowes  of  his  Company  :  1642.   4  leaves. 

39.  The  Star-Chamber  Epitomized.    1641.     4  leaves. 

40.  The  Welch-mans  publike  Recantation.  Or,  His  hearty  sorrow  for  taking  up 
Armes  against  her  Parliament:   1642.     4  leaves. 

41.  Theeves,  Theeves:  or,  a  Relation  of  Sir  John  Cell's  proceedings  in  Darby 
shire,  1643.     6  leaves. 

42.  Three  Looks  over  Lincoln:  1642.     4  leaves. 

43.  True  and  loyfuU  News  from  his  Maiestie,  1642.     4  leaves. 

44.  Wiltshire's  Resolution,  Presented  with  the  Contributions  of  divers  Gentle- 
men to  His  Majesties  Commissioners  at  Oxford.    1642.     4  leaves. 

45.  Wren's  Anatomy.  Discovering  His  notorious  pranks  and  shamefull  wicked- 
nesse  ;  1641.     A  woodcut  011  the  title.     8  leaves. 

CIVIL  WAR  TRACTS.  Inverse.  Printed  at  London,  1641-59. 
4to. 

1.  A  Panegyrick  on  His  Excellency  The  Lord  General  George  Monck  :  ^1659. 
4  leaves. 

2.  A  Reasonable  Motion  In  the  behalfe  of  such  of  the  Clergie,  As  are  now  ques- 
tioned in  Parliament  for  their  places.    1641.     2  leaves. 

3.  Herod  and  Pilate  reconciled:  \ji.  </.]    4  leaves. 

4.  Lambeth  Faire,  Wherein  you  have  all  the  Bishops  Trinkets  set  to  Sale.  1641. 
A  ■woodcut  on  the  title.     6  leaves. 

5.  Lilli's  Propheticall  History  Of  this  yeares  Accidence,  1642.     1642.     4  leaves. 

6.  Love  one  another:  A  Tvb  Lectvre,  preached  At  Watford  in  Hartfordshire  at 
a  Conventicle  on  the  25.  of  December  last,  being  Christmas  day,  by  John  Alexander, 
a  Joyner.     [«.  d^    A  woodcut  on  the  title.    4  leaves. 

7.  Mercuries  Message,  or  The  Coppy  of  a  Letter  sent  to  William  Laud  late  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  now  prisoner  in  the  Tower.     1641.     4  leaves. 

8.  Quassumus  te,  &c.  or,  the  Supplement  to  the  New  Letany  For  these  Times: 
1660.    4  leaves. 

9.  The  Aprentices  Advice  to  the  XH.  Bishops  lately  accused  of  High  Treason, 
by  the  Honourable  Assemblies  of  both  Houses.     1642.     4  leaves. 

10.  The  Interpreter.     Wherein,  three  principall  termes  of  State are 

clearely  unfoulded.     1641.     10  leaves. 

A  collection  of  tracts  relating  to  women,  printed  during  the 

Civil  War,  consisting  of  the  eight  rare  pieces  undermentioned.     4to. 
R.  M. 

1.  The  Virgins  Complaint  for  the  losse  of  their  Sweet-Hearts  by  these  present 

Wars London,  Printed  for  Henry  Wilson,  Ian.  31.      Anno  Dom.  1642. 

4  leaves. 

2.  The  Maid's  Petition  to  the  Honourable  Members  of  both  Houses 

London,  Printed  for  A.  L.  in  the  jeer  of  Englands  freedome  and  Liberty,  1647. 
4  leaves. 

3.  (Hey  Hoe,  for  a  Husband,)  Or,  The  Parliament  of  Maids  :  Their  Desires, 
Decrees,  and  Determinations.     The  principall  Members  are  Mrs.  Beatrice  Blinks, 


i6s8  APPENDIX. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Sale-Woman,  Mrs.  Margeret  Maundring,  Mrs.  Priscilla  Prick-song, 

Mrs.  Dorothy  Doe-well,  Mrs.  Tabitha  Triptoe Printed  in  the  Yeare,  1647. 

4  leaves. 

4.  The  City-Dames  Petition,  in  the  behalfe  of  the  long  afflicted,  but  well-affected 
Cavaliers.  Presented  to  the  Supreme  Powers  of  the  Kingdome.  Printed  in  the 
Yeere,  1647.     4  leaves. 

5.  A  Remonstrance  of  the  She-Citizens  of  London,  and  of  many  thousands  of 

others  the  free-borne  Women  of  England Printed  in  the  yeare  1647.     4 

leaves. 

6.  A  Parliament  of  Ladies  :  With  their  Lawes  newly  enacted.  Printed  in  the 
year  1647.     4  leaves. 

7.  The  Parliament  of  Ladies,   Or  Divers  remarkable  passages  of  Ladies   in 

Spring-Gardens The  second  Edition  corrected  by  the  original!,  unto  which 

is  added  a  Supplement  of  some  further  proceedings  in  the  said  Parliament.  P\_r^inted 
in  the  yeare  1647.     8  leaves. 

From  the  libraries  of  Dr.  Bliss  and  Sir  W.  Tite. 

CLAMADES.  Historia  del  muy  valiete  y  esfor^ado  cauallero 
Clamades,  hijo  de  Marcaditas  Rey  de  Castilla,  y  de  la  linda  Clara- 
monda  hija  del  Rey  de  Toscana.  Impressa  con  licencia  eti  Salamanca 
en  casa  de  Antonia,  Ramirez,  vhida.     Afio  de  1607.     4to. 

Twenty  leaves.  On  the  title  is  a  large  woodcut  of  warriors  on  horseback,  and 
on  the  verso  of  the  last  leaf  a  cut  of  a  king  on  his  throne. 

CLAVELL,  John.  A  Recantation  of  an  ill  led  Life.  Or,  A 
discouerie  of  the  High-way  Law,  with  vehement  disswasions  to  all 
(in  that  kind)  Offenders.  As  also  Many  cautelous  Admonitions  and 
full  Instructions,  how  to  know,  shun,  and  apprehend  a  Theefe.  Most 
Necessarie  for  all  honest  Travellers  to  peruse,  obserue,  and  Practise. 

Written  by  lohn  Clauell,  Gent Approued  by  the  Kings  most 

Excellent  Maiestie,  and  published  by  his  expresse  Commaund.   Lon- 
don, Printed  for  tlie  Ant/ton[r]s  z'se,  1628.     Sm.  8vo. 

A,  9  leaves ;  B — E  in  eights,  E  8  having  a  leaf  of  extra  verses  addressed  to  the 
King.     First  edition.    According  to  Lowndes  it  should  have  a  portrait  by  Meighan. 

COCKAIN,  Sir  Aston.   The  Obstinate  Lady :   A  New  Comedy. 
Never  formerly  Published  :  The  Scene  London.    Written  by  Sir  Aston 
Cockayne.   London,  Printed fy  IV.  Godbidfor  Isaa/:  Pridmore,  and  are 
to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  at  the  Sign  of  the  Falcon.  .  .  .  1657.    410. 
A,  2  leaves ;  B — K  2  in  fours.     First  edition. 

CODRINGTON,  Robert.  The  Life  and  Death  of  the  Illvstriovs 
Robert  Earle  of  Essex.  .  .  .  Containing  at  large  the  wars  He  managed, 
and  the  Commands  he  had  in  Holland,  the  Palatinate,  and  in  England. 
Together  with  some  wonderful!  observations  both  of  himselfe,  and  his 
Predecessors,  and  many  most  remarkable  Passages  from  his  Infancie 
unto  the  day  of  his  Death.     By  Robert  Codrington,  Master  of  Art. 


APPENDIX.  1659 

London  printed  by  F.   Leach,  for  L.   Chapman,  Anno   Doni.    1646. 

4to. 

A,  2  leaves;  B — H  2  in  fours,  H  2  blank. 

COFFEE.  The  Natural  History  of  Coffee,  Thee,  Chocolate,  To- 
bacco. In  four  several  Sections  ;  With  a  Tract  of  I-lldcr  and  Juniper 
Berries,  Shewing  how  Useful  they  may  be  in  Our  Coffcc-Houscs  :  And 
also  the  way  of  making  Mum,  With  some  Remarks  upon  that  Liquor. 
Collected  from  the  Writings  of  the  best  Physicians,  and  Modern 
Travellers.  London:  Printed  for  Christopher  Wilkinson,  at  the  Black 
Boy  over  against  St.  Dunstan's  Clmrcli  in  Fleetstreet.    1682.     4to. 

A — E  in  fours. 

The  Mens  Answer  to  the  Womens  Petition  against  Coffee  : 

vindicating  their  own  Performances,  and  the  virtues  of  their  Liquor, 
from  the  undeserved  aspersions  lately  cast  upon  them  in  their  Scan- 
dalous Pamphlet.    London,  Printed  in  the  Year  1647.     4to. 

Four  leaves. 

COLSE,  Peter.  Penelopes  Complaint :  Or,  A  Mirrour  for  wanton 
Minions.  Taken  out  of  Homers  Odissea,  and  written  in  English  Verse, 
By  Peter  Colse.  Armat  spina  rosas,  rnella  tcgiint  apes.  London  fl 
Printed  by  H.  lackson  dzvelling  in  Fleetstreet,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his 
s/top  vnder  Tetnple-barre  gate.    1596.     4to.     R.  M. 

A — H  in  fours. 

This  volume  has  been  fully  described  by  Mr.  Corser  in  his  "  Collectanea,"  and 
the  whole  of  the  pveliminary  matter  is  reprinted  in  the  privately  printed  volume  of 
"  Prefaces,  &c."  It  is  extremely  curious  on  account  of  the  attack  it  contains  on 
Willobie's  "  Avisa." 

On  D  3  is  an  illustration  of  the  expression  in  Hamlet's  soliloquy  of  "  this  too  too 
solid  flesh.''     Colse  writes  : — 

"  The  virgins  state,  I  must  confess. 
Is  too  too  tedious  for  to  beare." 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection,  and  doubtless  the  same  copy  which  appears  in  the 
Heber  Catalogue,  part  iv.,  as  that  is  described  as  in  red  morocco  and  with  the  title 
mounted.     It  is  believed  that  no  other  is  known. 

COMMANDMENTS.  Here  begynneth  the  ten  comaudementis 
of  god  ye  which  euery  man  mote  kepe  if  he  wulle  com  to  blysse.  [On 
page  7.]  Here  bene  ye  seuene  dedly  synnes  )5at  euery  man  most  flee 
.  if  he  wolde  be  saued  .  for  Jjei  ben  j3e  large  weie  to  helle.  [On  folio 
14.]  Ardeat  in  nobis  diuini  feruor  amoris.  This  short  pistelle  )Pat 
folowe)5  is  deuyded  in  sundry  maters  eche  matere  by  him  selfe  in  titlis 
as  Jjis  kalendere  shewijJ,  &c.     Sm.  4to. 

MS.  of  the  fifteenth  century  on  sixty-five  pages  of  vellum. 

COMPOSITA  VERBORUM.  Composita  verbov  [On  the  verso 
of  folio  Ivi.]    Expliciunt  composita  verbov  cum  emendata  et  reformata 


i66o  APPENDIX. 

expositione  p  simpHcibus  nouellis  q,  clericulis  diligenter  plongata  et 
magis  q,  prius  ad  vulgare  redacta.  Completa  ac  finita  Anno  dni 
M".cccc.l.xxxvii.     \_Sine  iilld  notd.']    4to. 

aa — hh  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank.  This  piece  is  bound  with  another  by  Jo. 
de  Garlandia,  which  begins  on  A  i,  without  any  regular  title,  with  the  headline 
"  Incipiut  verba  depone."  A  little  lower  on  the  page  we  read  :  "  Ut  aiunt  nonulli 
ihes  de  garladia  videns  errore  q,  plurimorum  no  habentiu  differentia  inter  verba 
deponetalia  7  passiua.  hunc  belli  de  verbis  deponetalibus  metrice  collegit."  A — C 
in  sixes.  It  is  in  the  same  type  as  the  tract  it  is  bound  with,  but,  unlike  that,  has 
no  folios. 

Two  other  editions  of  this  work  are  described  by  Hain,  but  he  does  not  notice  this 
one  either  as  attached  to  the  "  Composita  verborum,"  or  as  a  separate  publication. 

CORQUERA,  Diego  de  Bricuela.  Relacion  muy  verdadera 
de  la  tempestad,  huracanes  y  temblores  de  tierra,  que  succedieron  en 
la  ciudad  de  Seuilla  dia  de  sefior  San  Benito,  que  se  contaron  veynte 
y  vno  de  Margo  deste  afio  de  1 608.  Compuesta  por  el  Maestro  Diego 
de  Briguela  Cor^uera,  Cura  proprio  de  la  villa  de  los  po^uelos,  en  el 
campo  de  Calatraua  por  su  Magestad,  estante  este  dia  en  Seuilla. 
Con  vn  Romance  a  la  postre  del  glorioso  San  Benito,  compuesto  por 
el  mismo  author  en  cuyo  dia  acaecio.  hiipressa  en  Seuilla  en  casa  de 
Mat/lias  Clauijo,  a  la  Carpinteria,  Ailo  de  1608.    4to. 

Four  leaves.  Three  small  rude  woodcuts  below  the  title.  The  whole  of  the 
piece  is  in  metre. 

COVARRUVIAS,  Sebastian  de.     Tesoro  de  la  lengva  Castel- 

lana,  o  Espaiiola En  Madrid,  por  Melcliior  Sanchez.    1674. 

Folio. 

First  part  :  title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves.  A — KK  in  eights.  L  1,  4  leaves. 
Second  part ;  A — Dd  in  eights. 

COVENTRY,  Sir  William.  The  Character  of  a  Trimmer. 
His  Opinion  of  The  Laws  and  Government.  Protestant  Religion. 
The  Papists.  Foreign  Affairs.  By  the  Honourable  Sir  W.  C.  Lon- 
don, Printed  in  tlie  year,  1688.     4to. 

A — F  in  fours. 

CRANACH,  Lucas.  Das  Symbolum  oder  gemeine  Bekentnis 
der  zvvelff  Aposteln,  darinn  der  grund  gelegt  ist  des  christlichen  glau- 
bens,  auffs  kiirze  ausgelegt  und  erkleret.  Fur  die  Leyen  vnd  einfel- 
tigen,  mit  schonen  lieblichen  Figuren.  Witteviberg.  M.D.XXXIX. 
[Colophon.]  Gedruckt  zn  Wittenibcrg,  durcJi  Georgcn  RJiaw.  Folio. 
12  large  Wood  engravings  by  Lucas  Cranach.     BR.  M. 

A — E  in  sixes. 

CRASHAW,  W.  Manvale  Catholicorum.  A  Manuall  for  True 
Catholickes.  London,  Printed  for  Leonard  Bccket,  and  are  to  be  sold 
at  his  Shop  in  the  Temple  neere  the  church,  161 1.     Sm.  Svo.     G.  M. 


APPENDIX.  1661 

A  2 — F  9  in  twelves,  F  9  being  occupied  only  by  the  device  of  the  typographer, 
Nicholas  Okes.     First  edition. 

CROWLEY,  Robert.  The  way  to  wcaltli,  wherein  is  phiinly 
taught  a  most  present  remedy  for  Bad  times.  Wrytten  and  imprinted 
by  Robert  Crozolcy  the  .vii.  of  Februarye  in  the  ycre  of  our  Lorde.  A 
tJwusand  fine  hiidrcd  &  fiftie.  In  Elie  rentes  in  llolburne.  Ciiin  pri- 
tiilegio  ad  imprimendiim  solum. 

Who  so  thou  be  that  doest  desyre 

to  Hue  and  good  daies  se, 

look  ye  in  thy  tonge  and  thy  lyps, 

none  yl  or  disceite  be. 

Fie  from  yl  and  do  that  good  is, 

whereof  commeth  no  blame. 

Soke  thou  for  peace  diligently, 

and  then  ensue  the  same. 

Psalm  xxxiiii. 
Sni.  8vo.     Black  letter. 

A — B  in  eights.     From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

CRUEL  MOTHER.  The  Cruel  Mother;  Being  a  true  Relation 
of  the  Bloody  Murther  committed  by  M.  Cook,  upon  her  Ucarly- 
beloved  Child,  with  the  causes  wherefore  she  did  it :  Her  occasional 
speeches  to  several  Friends  and  others,  &c.  London,  Printed  for 
IV.  R.    1670.     4to. 

Four  leaves. 

CUEVAS,  Ambrosio  de.  Relacion  de  vn  milagro,  que  el  glorioso 
San  Diego  hizo  en  la  villa  de  Alcala  de  Henares,  de  vn  Niiio  que 
resucit^,  por  la  gran  deuocion  que  su  Madre  tenia  con  San  Diego. 
El  qual  milagro  fue  aprouado  con  testigos,  y  hecha  aueriguacion,  se 
lleu6  el  Niiio  en  procession  por  los  Religiosos  del  Conuento,  dando 
gracias  a  Dios  por  los  merecimientos  del  glorioso  Santo,  fue  dia  de  San 
Bartolome.  Aiio  1607.  Compuesto  por  el  Licenciado  Ambrosio  de 
Cueuas,  vezino  de  Ciepoguelos.  Y  lleua  vnas  decimas  al  mismo  Santo, 
con  vna  glossa,  y  vnas  redondillas,  y  octavas  en  alabanga  del  Santo. 
Con  licencia.  En  Alcala,  En  casa  de  I  nan  Gracian  que  sea  en  gloria. 
Ailo  de  1607.     4to. 

Four  leaves.  In  metre.  On  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  a  monk,  and  another  of  a 
nun  leading  a  child  is  on  the  last  leaf. 

CURTIS,  John.  British  Entomology,  or  Illustrations  and  descrip- 
tions of  the  Genera  of  Insects  found  in  Great  Britain  and  Ireland. 
London,  1824.-20.    16  vols.  Impl.  8vo.     ^jo  coloured  plates. 


90. 


i662  APPENDIX. 


D. 


D.,  T.  The  Knave  in  Graine,  New  vampt.  A  witty  Comedy, 
Acted  at  the  Fortune  many  dayes  together  with  great  Applause. 
Written  by  T.  D.  Gent.  London:  Printed  by  T.  O.  and  are  to  be  sold 
by  John  Nidwlson  at  his  Sliop  under  St.  Martins  Church  neare  Lndgate. 
1640.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — M  2  in  fours.     From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

DAVENANT,  SiR  Willi.\m.  The  Tragedy  of  Albovine,  King 
of  the  Lombards:  By  W™  D'avenant.  London,  Printed  for  R.  M.  and 
arc  to  be  sold  in  Saint  Dnnstanes  Church-yard,  1629.     4to. 

A — M  in  fours.  Dedicated  to  tlie  Earl  of  Somerset.  With  commendatory  verses 
by  W.  Habington  and  others.  First  edition,  and  Davenant's  earliest  appearance 
in  print. 

The  Ivst  Itah"an.     Lately  presented  in  the  private  house  at 


Blacke  Friers.  By  his  Maiesties  Seruants.  London,  Printed  by  Thomas 
Hai'per  for  lolin  Water  son,  and  arc  to  be  sold  at  the  signe  of  the  Croivne, 
in  Pauls  Churchyard.    1630.    4to. 

A — K  i  in  fours.     Dedicated  to  the  Earl  of  Dorset.    With  commendatory  verses 
by  Thomas  Carcw,  &c.     First  edition. 

The  Crvell  Brother.     A  Tragedy.    As  it  was  performed,  at  the 


private    house,   in   the    Blacke-Fryers :    By  His   Maiesties   Seruants. 
London,  Imprinted  by  A.  M.  for  lolm  IVatersou 1630.     4to. 

A — K  in  fours  ;    title  on  A  2.     Dedicated  to  Lord  Weston,  Lord  Treasurer. 
First  edition. 

The  Witts.     A  Comedie,  Presented  at  the  Private  House  in 


Blacke  Fryers,  by  his  Maiesties  Servants.  The  Author  William 
D'Avenant,  Servant  to  Her  Maiestie.  London,  Printed  for  Richard 
Meiglten,  next  to  the  Middle  Temple  in  Fleetstrcet.    1636.    4to. 

A — K  in  fours  ;  A  i  is  occupied  by  the  Imprimatur,  which  states  that  the  play 
may  be  printed  "  as  it  was  acted  without  offence,  not  otherwise."  Dedicated  "  To  the 
Chiefly  Belov'd  of  all  that  are  Ingenious,  and  Noble,  Endymion  Porter,  of  his 
Majesties  Bedchamber."  With  commendatory  verses  by  Carew.  First  edition. 
From  the  Wolfreston  collection. 

DAYMIEL,  F.  S.  Fanegas  de.  Aqui  se  conticne  vn  famoso 
milagro  que  obro  el  benditissimo  lesus  y  su  gloriosa  Madre,  con  tres 
ninos,  en  vn  Monasterio  de  fraylcs  del  glorioso  Santo  Domingo,  en 
el  Rcyno  dc  Portugal,  scys  leguas  de  Lisboa,  en  vna  villa  llamada 
Villafranca.     Agora  nueuamente  sacada  a  luz  por  Francisco  Sanches 


APPENDIX.  1663 

Fanegas  de  Daymiel  Con  vn  Romance  nueuo.     Con  licencia  Tmpresso 
en  casa  de  Bartholonie  de  Selina  alio  de  1603.    4to- 

Four  leaves.  In  metre.  Beneath  the  title  is  a  small  rude  woodcut  of  the  Virgin 
supported  by  four  angels. 

DEACON,  John.  Dialogicall  Discourses  of  Spirits  and  Divcls. 
Declaring  their  proper  essence,  natures,  dispositions,  and  operations  : 
their  possessions,  and  dispossessions  :  with  other  the  appendantes, 
peculiarly  appertaining  to  those  speciall  points.  Verie  conducent, 
and  pertinent  to  the  timely  procuring  of  some  Christian  conformitie 
in  iudgement:  for  the  peaceable  compounding  of  the  late  sprong 
controuersies  concerning  all  such  intricate  and  difficult  doubts.     By 

lohn  Deacon,  lohn  Walker,  Preachers Londini,  Impensis  Gear. 

Bishop.    1 60 1.    4to. 

A,  8  leaves  ;  a,  8  leaves  ;  B — A  a  in  eights.  Dedicated  to  Sir  Thomas  Egerton 
and  other  judges. 

A  Svmmarie  Answere  to  al   the  material  points  in  any  of 

Master  Darel  his  bookes.     More  especiallie  to  that  one  booke  of  his, 
intitvled,  the  Doctrine  of  the  Possession  and  Dispossession  of  Demo- 

niaks  out  of  the  word  of  God Londini  Impensis  Gear.  Bishop. 

1 60 1.     4to. 

*,  8  leaves,  including  the  title,  and  A — R  4  in  eights. 

DEMONIACAL  POSSESSION.  A  collection  of  pamphlets 
relating  to  the  demoniacs  mentioned  in  the  New  Testament : — In  one 
volume.     8vo. 

1.  A  Dissertation  on  the  Demoniacs  in  the  Gospels.  1775. 

2.  An  Enquiry  into  the  Meaning  ofDemoniacks  in  the  New  Testament.  London. 

^72,7- 

3.  An  Answer  to  the  Enquiry In  a  Letter  to  the  Author.     By  Edward 

Twells.     London.    1737. 

4.  An  Essay  towards  vindicating  the  literal  sense  of  the  Demoniacks  in  the 
New  Testament ;  In  answer  to  a  late  Enquiry  into  the  Meaning  of  them.    London. 

^717- 

5.  A  Further  Enquiiy  into  the  Meaning  of  Demoniacks  in  the  New  Testament. 
London.    1737. 

6.  An  Answer  to  the  Further  Enquiry 173S. 

7.  A  Review  of  the  Controversy  about  the  Meaning  of  Demoniacks  in  the  New 
Testament.     By  a  Lover  of  Truth.    London.    1739. 

8.  Remarks  upon  a  Pamphlet,  entitled,  a  Review  of  the  Controversy  ....  By 
Tho.  Hutchinson.    London.    1739. 

9.  An  Account  of  the  Demoniacks  ....  By  Will.  Whiston.    London.    1737. 

10.  A  Critical  Dissertation  concerning  the  words  Daimon  and  Daimonion 

By  a  Gentleman  of  Wadham  College  Oxford.    London.   1738. 

DIALOGUS.  Ain  schdner  dialogus  oder  gesprech,  so  ain  Pre- 
diger  mijnch  Bembus  genant,  vnd  ain  Burger  Silenus,  vnd  sein  Narr 
mit  ainander  habent.     [(?.  0.  u.  J.l    4to. 


1 664  APPENDIX. 

Four  leaves.  On  the  title  is  a  large  woodcut  with  three  figures,  inscribed  respec- 
tively, Bembus,  Silenus,  Narr. 

[DICTES.  The  dictes  or  sayengis  of  the  philosophres.]  [On  the 
recto  of  folio  73  :]  Here  endeth  the  book  named  the  dictes  or  sayengis  of 
the  philosophres  enprinted  by  vie  ivilliam  Caxton  at  tuestmestre  the  y ere 
of  our  lord  M.  CCCC.Lxxvij.  WhieJie  book  is  late  translated  ont  of  Frenslie 
into  englyssh.  by  the  Noble  and  puissant  lord  Lord  Antone  Erie  of 
Ryuyers Folio,  Black  letter.     R. 

Without  pagination,  catchwords,  or  signatures,  75  leaves. 

Folios  7  and  64  are  inlaid  ;  and  folio  73  is  in  facsimile  ;  otherwise  the  present 
copy  is  remarkably  fine  and  very  tall.  This  copy  when  described  by  Mr.  Blades 
had  three  leaves  in  facsimile,  7,  64  (not  49  as  he  states),  and  73.  The  two  former 
have  since  been  supplied  from  the  copy  sold  in  Mr.  Corser's  sale,  which  was  in  fact 
the  copy  described  by  Mr.  Blades  as  No.  1 1  in  his  list. 

"  This  book  is  remarkable  as  being  the  first  which  bears  a  plain  statement  of  the 
place  and  time  of  its  execution.  It  is  thought  by  some  to  be  really  the  first  book 
printed  in  England.  A  few  of  the  quarto  pieces  may  perhaps  have  preceded  it,  but 
there  is  none  that  can  be  proved  of  earlier  workmanship,  and  if,  as  there  seems  good 
reason  for  supposing,  Caxton  did  not  settle  at  Westminster  before  1476,  he  would 
not  have  had  time  to  produce  much." — Blades. 

[DRAKE,  Mrs.]  An  Essay  in  Defence  of  the  Female  Sex.  In 
which  are  inserted  the  Characters  of  a  Pedant,  A  Squire,  A  Beau,  A 
Vertuoso,  A  Poetaster,  A  City-Critick,  &c.  In  a  Letter  to  a  Lady. 
Written  by  a  Lady.  The  third  Edition  with  additions.  .  .  .  London, 
Printed  for  A.  Roper.     1697.    8vo. 

A,  8  leaves  ;  B,  8  leaves  ;  B — L  4  in  eights. 

DRYDEN,  John.  To  His  Sacred  Maiesty,  A  Panegyrick  on  His 
Coronation.  By  John  Dryden.  London,  Printed  for  Henry  Herring- 
man,  .  .  .  1 66 1.     Folio. 

A — B,  2  leaves  each.     First  edition. 


ECCLESIASTICAL  DISCIPLINE.  A  Defence  of  the  Eccle- 
siastical Discipline  ordayned  of  God  to  be  vsed  in  his  Church.  Against 
a  Replie  of  Maister  Bridges  to  a  briefe  and  plain  Declaration  of  it, 
which  was  printed  An.  1584.  Which  replie  he  tcrmeth,  A  Defence  of 
the  Goucrnvient  established  in  tJie  Church  of  England  for  Ecclesiasticall 
matters.  [Quotations  from  Job,  31,  35,  36,  37,  and  I  Tim.  6,  13,  14, 
15,16.]     \No  place  or  printer's  name.']     1588.    4to.     BL.  M. 

A— Cc  in  fours. 


APPENDIX.  1G65 

ENRIQUE.  Historia  dc  Enriij  fijo  dc  doila  Oliua  rcy  de  Jeru- 
salem :  y  einperador  dc  Constantinopla.  Scvilla,  Cronibergcr.  1533. 
4to.     Black  letter. 

a — d,  ill  eights  ;  but  the  last  leaf  wanting. 

ESPEJO  de  la  dcuocion,  a  donde  el  Christiano  lector  pucde 
mirarse,  y  contemplar  lo  mucho  que  ganaron  vnos  casados  que  fucron 
deuotos  de  Senora  Sancta  Anna,  y  S.  loachim,  y  particularmcnte  del 
Rosario  de  nuestra  Senora  ;  y  trata  come  murieron  sanctamente,  con 
muchos  .sabores  que  del  Ciclo  tuuicron,  aunque  viuian  entre  Luther- 
anos  y  vna  hija  suya  como  murio  Martyr,  y  Virgen.  Con  liccncia,  Im- 
prcsso  en  Salamanca  Aiio  de  1607.  Con  vn  Romance  de  las  quexas  de 
la  muger  de  don  Aluaro.     4to. 

Four  leaves.  Beneath  that  part  of  the  title  which  precedes  the  imprint  is  a  large 
woodcut  of  the  Virgin  holding  the  infant  Christ  in  her  arms.  Both  she  and  the 
child  hold  out  a  rosary  to  a  suppliant.     The  te.xt  is  in  metre. 

ESPOLETO,  Andres  de.  A  gloria  y  loor  de  dios:  y  para 
decliado  y  exeplo  de  los  fieles.  Siguese  el  glorioso  martyrio  de  bien- 
aueturado  padre  fray  Andres  de  espoleto :  frayle  de  los  menores  dela 
orden  del  serafico  padre  nuestro  sant  Francisco.  El  qual  martyrio 
recibio  enla  ciudad  de  Fez  porla  verdad  de  nuestra  sagrada  fe.  A 
nueue  dias  del  mes  de  Enero  Afio  de  M.D. XXXII.  \_S.  I.  y  «.]  4to. 
Black  letter. 

Eleven  leaves.  In  this  tract  are  also  contained  some  letters  from  Mexico  respect- 
ing the  deaths  of  certain  missionaries.  In  Harrisse's  Bibliotheca  Americana,  vol.  i., 
No.  169,  a  Spanish  book  is  mentioned,  "  Martyrio,  &c.,  y  tres  cartas  de  Mexico," 
of  which  Harrisse  remarks, "  We  find  this  short  notice  in  Rich's  Supplement  under 
the  date  of  1532,  but  are  unable  to  add  anything  to  it,  &c."  In  the  second  volume  of 
the  Bibliotheca,  No.  97,  is  described  a  Latin  version  of  this  tract,  printed  at  Toulouse, 
"  Impicssujii  Tliolose  expensis  hoiicsti  viri  Johannis  barril  mcrcatoris  Tkolose" 
but  this  Spanish  version  appears  to  have  remained  unknown  to  Mr.  Harrisse. 


FANE,  Sir  Francis.  A  Panegyrick  to  the  Kings  most  excellent 
Majesty,  Upon  His  Happy  Accession  to  the  Crown  ;  And  His  More 
Fortunate  Marriage.  By  S"'  F.  F.  K.B.  London,  Printed  by  W. 
Wilson,  for  Henry  Herringnian,  ....   1662.     Folio. 

Four  leaves. 

F  [ARNWORTH],  R.  Witchcraft  Cast  out  from  the  Religious  Seed 
and  Israel  of  God.  And  The  Black  Art,  Or,  Nicromancery  Inchant- 
ments.  Sorcerers,  Wizards,  lying  Divination,  Conjuration,  and  Witch- 


i666  APPENDIX. 

craft,  discovered,  with  the  Ground  fruits,  and  effects  thereof :  as  it  is 
proved  to  be  acted  in  the  Mistery  of  Iniquity,  by  the  power  of  dark- 
nesse,  and  witnessed  against  by  Scripture,  and  declared  against  also, 

From,  and  By  them  that  the  world  scornfully  calleth  Quakers 

LondoJi,  Printed  for  Giles.  Calvert  at  the  Black  sprcad-Eagle  at  the  West 
end  of  Pauls.    1655.    4to. 

A — C  in  fours. 

FARSA  Del  Molinero,  que  trata  del  sanctissimo  Sacramento  del 
Corpus  Christi.  Agora  nueuamente  impressa  con  licencia.  En  Sala- 
manca, en  casa  de  Antonia  Rantires  vitida  Afw  de  1608.    4to. 

Four  leaves.  On  the  title  are  four  small  rude  woodcut  figures,  and  on  the  last 
leaf  is  a  cut  of  two  angels  displaying  a  jewelled  Maltese  cross. 

FISHER,  John,  Bishop  of  Rochester.  De  Cavsa  Matrimonii 
serenissimi  Regis  Anglire  liber,  loanne  Roffensi  Episcopo  autore. 
[Colophon.]  Coniplvti  apvd  Miehaelem  de  Eguia,  mcnse  Augusta.  Anno. 
1530.     4to. 

A — F4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

In  the  title  of  this  rare  volume  is  a  curious  misprint  of"  Serenissimae  "  which 
has  been  corrected  at  the  time  by  a  small  slip  of  paper  with  I  on  it  being  pasted  over. 
On  the  verso  of  the  title  is  an  address  from  the  printer  to  the  reader,  in  which  he 
says  that  the  book  had  been  put  into  his  hands  to  print  by  Alfonsus  Fonseca,  Arch- 
bishop of  Toledo.  It  is  probable  that  this  treatise  against  the  divorce  had  as  much 
influence  on  the  fate  of  the  author  as  his  denial  of  the  supremacy. 

F.[ISHER].  T.[noMAS].     Warlike  Directions:    Or  the  Souldiers 

Practice By   a   Practitioner   in   the  same  Art.      T.[homas] 

F.[isher].      The   Third   Edition,  corrected   and   amended.      London, 

Printed  by  Thomas  Harper,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Charles  Greeti 

1644.     Sm.  Svo.      Woodcuts. 

A — F  in  eights. 

FORD,  E.  The  IMost  famous,  delectable,  and  Pleasant  History 
of  Parismvs  the  Renowned  Prince  of  Bohemia.  The  First  Part. 
Containing  his  Noble  Battels  fought  against  the  Persians,  His  love  to 
Laurana,  the  Kings  Daughter  of  Thessaly  :  And  of  his  strange  Ad- 
ventures in  the  Desolate  Island.  Dnvi  spiro  spero.  London :  Printed 
by  B.  Alsop,  dwelling  neere  the  Upper  Punipe  in  Grubstreet.  1649. 
4to.     Black  letter. 

A— P  4  in  eights,  title  on  A  2.  Part  ii..  A— T4  in  eights.  The  title  to  the  second 
part  runs:  "The  Most  famous,  delectable,  and  Pleasant  History  of  Parismvs  the 
Renowned  Prince  of  Bohemia.  The  Second  Part.  Containing  the  adventures 
Travells  and  Noble  Chivalry  of  Parismenvs,  the  Knight  of  Fame  in  divers  Countries. 
Newly  Imprinted  and  amended.     London  Printed  by  B.  Alsop 1649." 

From  the  library  of  Sir  John  Simeon. 


APPENDIX.  1667 

[FOXTON,  Thomas.]  Moral  Songs  Composed  for  the  Use  of 
Children.  The  Fourth  Edition  Corrected.  Recommended  by  the 
Reverend  Isaac  Watts,  D.D.  London :  Printed  for  Aaron  Ward  .  .  . 
1743.    Sm.  8vo. 

Thirty-six  leaves. 


GARCIA,  Pablo.  Orden  que  Comunamente  se  guarda  en  el 
Santo  Oficio  de  la  Inquisicion  acerca  del  processar  en  las  causas  que 
en  el  se  tratan,  conforme  a  lo  que  esta  proueydo  por  las  instruciones 
antiguas  y  nueuas.  Recopilado  por  Pablo  Garcia  Secretario  del  Consejo 
de  la  santa  general  Inquisicion.  Hase  anadido  en  esta  quarta  im- 
pression el  indice  de  lo  que  contiene  este  libro.  Afio  1622.  Conlicencia 
de  los  seflores  del  supremo  Cosejo  de  la  santa  general  Inquisicion.  En 
Madrid,  Por  Luis  Sancliez  Iviprcssor  del  Rey  N.  S.  4to. 
Title,  and  A — V  2  in  fours. 

GAUDEN,  John.  A  Pillar  of  Gratitude  Humbly  Dedicated  to 
the  Glory  of  God,  The  Honour  of  His  Majesty,  The  Renown  of  this 
present  Legal,  Loyal,  Full,  and  Free  Parliament :  Upon  their  Restoring 
the  Church  of  England  to  the  Primitive  Government  of  Episcopacy ; 
And  Re-investing  Bishops  into  Their  Pristine  Honour  and  Authority. 
Anno  1661.  London,  Printed  by  jf.  M.  for  Andrew  Crook.  1661. 
Folio. 

A — H  in  fours,  H  4  blank,  besides  the  printed  title  and  frontispiece. 

GERBIER,  Balthasar.  Sommier  Verhael,  Van  sekere  Aineri- 
kaensche  Voyagie,  Gedaen  Door  den  Ridder  Balthasar  Gerbier, 
Baron  Douuily,  Door  Haer  Ho  :  Mo  :  d'Heeren  Staten  Generael  van 
de  Vereenighde  Nederlanden,  en  d'Edele  Heeren  Bewinthebberen  van 
de  Geoctroyeerde  generale  West-Indische  Compagnie,  Opperhooft 
Commandeur  van  een  Guajaensche  Colonic  gekoofen,  gecommitteert 
ende  gestelt.     Gedruckt  voor  den  Antheiir.    Anno  1660.     4to.     bl.  m. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B,  i  leaf.  Opposite  the  title  is  a  beautifully  engraved  frontispiece 
in  four  compartments,  in  which  are  shown  the  murders  committed  on  the  Gerbier 
family,  and  the  portraits  of  the  ringleaders.  After  the  title  is  an  account  of  the 
affair  in  Dutch,  and  then  follows  on  the  fourth  page,  "  Relation  Du  Meurtre  comis, 
le  7.  Jour  de  May,  1660,  au  Logement  du  Commandeur  Jean  Claesz.  Tangendijck, 
durant  son  absence  de  son  fort  Nassou  en  Cajane,  centre  la  Famille  du  Chevalier 
Balthazar  Gerbier  Baron  Douuily,  chef  Commandeur  de  la  Colonie  de  Guajane." 
This  is  in  French  verse  and  occupies  a  little  more  than  two  pages.  After  this  is  a 
plate  in  two  compartments.     In  the  upper  one  is  a  portrait  of  Catherine  Gerbier, 


1 668  APPENDIX. 

and  in  the  lower  one  she  is  shown  lying  dead  on  a  couch,  the  natives  of  the  country 
standing  at  the  foot  and  scattering  flowers  upon  her.  On  the  concluding  leaf  op- 
posite are  verses  in  Dutch,  headed  "  De  laaste  Woorden  van  Me-Joff''  Katharina 
Gerbier." 

GERSON,  JOH.  [Opusculum  tripartitum  de  mandatis  Dei,  con- 
fessione  et  arte  moriendi.]  [Colophon.]  Explicit  opiisculu  Wiptitiim  de 
preceptis  dccalogi  Dc  confcssione  &•  de  arte  Dioricdi  p  cximih  sacre  theo- 
logic  pfcssorc  Magistr  iohancm  de  Jcrsona  aline  univcrsitatis  pisiens' 
Caiiccllarifi.     [Sine  nlld  notd.]     4to. 

Thirty-six  leaves  (the  first  and  last  blank)  with  twenty-seven  lines  on  each  full 
page,  the  text  ending  with  the  colophon  above  cited  on  the  obverse  of  the  thirty- 
fifth  leaf.  It  has  neither  pagination,  signatures,  nor  catchwords.  Panzer  notes 
only  three  editions  of  this  piece,  and  gives  no  exact  particulars  by  which  they  may 
be  distinguished.  Hain  enlarges  the  list  to  five  different  editions.  The  present 
volume  agrees  with  his  No.  7654  as  regards  the  number  of  printed  leaves  (thirty-four 
without  the  blanks)  and  in  having  twenty-seven  lines  to  the  page.  The  spelling  of  the 
colophon  also  accords  exactly,  but  the  division  of  the  lines  is  different.  It  is  proba- 
bly this  edition,  however,  that  he  intended  to  describe,  and  the  error  noted  is  the 
more  easily  understood  as  it  is  not  one  of  the  books  he  had  through  his  own  hands. 
He  gives  the  place  of  printing  as  "  In  valle  Maria;  Virginis  Rhingaviae;"  later  bib- 
liographers, however,  say  nothing  of  this  press. 

GODARTIUS,  Johannes.  Johannes  Godartius  Of  Insects.  Done 
into  EngHsh,  and  Methodized,  with  the  Addition  of  Notes.  The 
Figures  etched  upon  Copper,  by  Mr.  F.[rancis]  P.[lace.]  York.  Printed 
by  John  White,  for  M.\_artin'\L.\ister.'\     1682.     4to. 

A — T  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.     With  fourteen  folding  plates. 

One  hundred  and  fifty  copies  were  privately  printed  for  Dr.  Lister,  the  eminent 
entomologist.  A  copious  account  of  the  book,  the  circumstances  under  which  it  was 
produced,  and  of  Francis  Place  the  artist,  will  be  found  in  "  A  Memoir  of  the  York 
Press,"  by  Robert  Davies,  1S68,  pp.  10S-13. 

GROTIUS,  H.  Christ's  Passion.  A  Tragedy  ;  with  Annotations. 
By  George  Sandys,  Author  of  the  Paraphrase  on  the  Psalmes,  and 
Ovid's  Metamorphosis,  &c.  The  second  Edition,  Illustrated  with 
Scvlptvres.  London,  Printed  by  J.  R.for  T.  Basset,  at  the  George  near 
S.  Dunstans  Church  in  Flcctstreet.    1687.     8vo.     R. 

A — H  in  eights,  not  including  the  six  engravings.  There  are  no  plates  in  the 
first  edition. 


H. 

HALE,  Sir  M.  A  Treatise,  Shewing  how  Useful,  Safe,  Reason- 
able and  Beneficial,  the  Inrolling  and  Registering  of  all  Conveyances 
of  Lands  maybe  to  the  Inhabitants  of  this  Kingdom.   Written  by  the 


APPENDIX.  1669 

Honourable  Sir  Matthew  Hale,  Knight  ....  The  Second  Edition. 
London,  Printed  for  Alat.  Wottoii,  .  .   1710.    4to. 
B — D  in  fours,  and  the  title. 

HARBERT,  William.  A  Prophesie  of  Cadwallader,  last  King 
of  the  Britaines :  Containing  a  Comparison  of  the  English  Kings,  with 
many  worthy  Romanes,  from  William  Rufus,  till  Henry  the  fift. 
Henry  the  fift,  his  life  and  death.  Foure  Battels  betweene  the  two 
Houses  of  Yorke  and  Lancanster.  The  Field  of  Banbery.  The  losse 
of  Elizabeth.  The  praise  of  King  lames.  And  lastly  a  Poeme  to  the 
yong  Prince.  London  Printed  by  Thomas  Crecdc,  for  Roger  Jackson, 
and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Fleetstreete,  oner  against  the  Conduit. 
1604.    4to. 

A — I  in  fours,  the  first  leaf  blank. 

HOME,  James.  The  Scripture  History  of  the  Jews,  and  their 
Republick.  Being  a  Collection  of  what  is  most  remarkable  in  the 
Sacred  writings,  relating  to  the  Rise,  Establishment  and  Declension 
of  the  Jewish  Nation.    London  ly^j.    2  vols.    8vo. 

[HORSMANDEN,  Daniel.]  A  Journal  of  the  Proceedings  in 
The  Detection  of  the  Conspiracy  formed  by  Some  White  People,  in 
Conjunction  with  Negro  and  other  Slaves,  for  Burning  the  City  of 
New-York  in  America,  And  Murdering  the  Inhabitants.  Which  Con- 
spiracy was  partly  put  in  Execution,  by  Burning  His  Majesty's  House 
in  Fort  George,  within  the  raid  City,  on  Wednesday  the  Eighteenth  of 
March,  1 741  ...  .  Containing  a  Narrative  of  the  Trials  .  .  .  Lists 
of  the  several  Persons  committed  ....  By  the  Recorder  of  the  City 
of  New- York.  Neiv  York:  Printed  by  James  Parker,  at  the  New 
Printing-Office,  1744,    4to. 

Title,  I  leaf ;  preface,  3  leaves  ;  introduction,  5  leaves  ;  the  Journal,  C  2 — Dd 
in  fours  ;  Dd  4  blank  ;  the  appendix,  A — B  in  fours. 

HVMBLE  MOTIVES  for  Association  to  maintaine  Religion 
Established.  Published  as  an  antidote  against  the  pestilent  treatises 
of  secular  Priests.     Virtus  vnita  valet.    Imprinted  1601.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title-page,  i  leaf ;  A — F  i  in  fours. 

In  the  same  volume  are  bound  up  the  following  tracts  in  MS.  : — 

1.  "  This  Booke  was  offered  to  the  most  renowmed  Queene  Elizabeth  by  Edward 
Grindall  Archbisshoppe  of  Canterburie  the  loth  of  December.  1576."  Thirteen 
leaves.     A  contemporary  MS.     Printed  in  (irindall's  "Works." 

2.  "To  Mr.  Anthony  Bacon.  An  Apologie  of  the  Earle  of  Essex  against  those 
w*'  falslie  and  maliciouslie  taxe  him  to  be  the  onlie  hinderance  of  the  peace  and 
quietnes  of  his  Country.  1598."  Forty-five  leaves.  A  contemporary  MS.  The 
last  eight  pages  are  occupied  by  another  treatise,  which  runs  on,  and  forms  part  of 
the  "Apology,"  though  totally  unconnected  with  it. 

9R 


1670  APPENDIX. 

3.  "  The  coppie  of  a  moste  godlie  and  learned  letter  written  by  the  righte  re- 
verend father  in  Cod  Do'  Pilkington  Bishop  of  Duresme  and  sent  to  the  righte 
ho'''"=  Lo  :  Robert  Dudley  Earle  of  Leicester,  one  of  the  Queenes  Ma""  moste 
ho''''  priuie  Councell."     [1564.]     Printed  in  Bishop  Pilkington's  works. 

HUMPHREY,  Laurence.  Joannis  Jvelli  Episcopi  Sarisbvriensis 
Vita  et  mors,  eiusqj  verae  doctrinre  defensio,  cum  refutatione  quorundam 
obiectorum,  Thomae  Hardingi,  Nicol.  Sanderi,  Alani  Copi,  Hieronymi 

Osorii,  Pontaci  Burdigalensis ;    Laurentio  Humfredo autore. 

Londijii  apud  loll.  Dayinn.     1573.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  17  leaves  ;  pp.  1-269  ;  and  15  leaves  unpaged. 

HUNT,  James.  These  Spiritvall  Verses  of  James  Hunt,  Con- 
cerning the  Down-fall  of  the  Ceremonies.  Whereby  the  Bishops  and 
their  Clergie  have  made,  as  it  were,  a  trade  to  blinde  and  deceive  the 
Children  of  God.  .  .  .  London:  Printed  for  Andrew  Coe.     1642.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  Sermon  and  Prophesies  of  lames  Hunt ;  Concerning 

the  marriage  of  the  Lambe,  and  of  the  confounding  of  the  Whore  of 
Babylon  .  .  .  Wherefore  I  lames  Hunt  humbly  beseech  the  Honour- 
able House  of  Parliament,  for  the  mercies  of  God,  that  you  will  read 
this  book  with  observation  .  .  .  London,  Printed  in  the yeer  1642.  4to. 

Four  leaves. 


IRELAND.  The  Report  made  to  the  Honourable  House  of 
Commons,  Decemb.  15.  1699.  By  the  Commissioners  appointed  to 
Enquire  into  the  Forfeited  Estates  of  Ireland.  London  ;  Printed  in 
the  Year  1700.    4to. 

B — E  2  in  fours,  and  the  title  ;  then  occurs,  on  a  separate  title,  but  evidently 
belonging  to  the  first  piece,  "  A  Letter  to  a  Friend  :  with  a  Copy  of  the  Report 
made  to  the  Honourable  House  of  Commons,"  [as  before],  which  extends  to  G  4, 
besides  separate  title  and  following  leaf,  and  repetition  of  sig.  E . 

Some  Thoughts  Humbly  offer'd  towards  an  Union  between 


Great-Britaine  and  Ireland.    London:  1708.    4to. 
A,  2  leaves  ;  B — E  in  fours. 


APPENDIX.  1671 


K. 

KEITH,  George.  An  Account  of  the  Great  Divisions  amongst 
the  Quakers  in  Ponsilvania,  &c.  As  appears  by  their  own  Hook,  here 
following,  Printed  1692,  and  lately  came  from  thence.  Intituled,  viz. 
The  Plea  of  the  Innocent,  against  the  False  Judgment  of  the  Guilty. 
Being  a  Vindication  of  George  Keith,  and  his  I'Viends,  who  are  joined 
with  him  in  this  present  Testimony,  from  the  False  Judgment,  Calum- 
nies, false  Informations  and  Defamations  of  Samuel  Jcnings  .... 
Directed,  by  way  of  Epistle,  to  faithful  Friends  of  Truth,  in  Pensil- 
vania,  East  and  West-Jersey,  and  else-where,  as  occasion  requireth. 
....  London,  Printed  for,  and  are  to  be  Sold,  by  John  GzuiUhn,  in 
Bishopsgate  street,  and  Rich.  Baldzvin  in  Warwick-lane,  1692.    4to. 

A — C  in  fours. 

KENNETT,  W.,  Bp.  of  Peterborough.  A  Register  and  Chro- 
nicle Ecclesiastical  and  Civil :  containing  matters  of  Fact,  delivered 
in  the  Words  of  the  most  authentick  Books,  Papers,  and   Records : 

digested  in  exact  order  of  time Faithfully  taken  from  the 

Manuscript  Collections  of  the  Lord  Bishop  of  Peterborough.    London. 
1728.    Folio.    R. 


LONICERUS,  Joan.  Adam.  Venatvs  et  Avcvpivm  Iconibvs 
Artificiosiss.  Ad  vivvm  expressa,  &  succinctis  versibus  illustrata,  Per 
Joan.  Adam.  Lonicerum,  Francfortanum.  Francfoi'ti  Lnpensis  Si- 
gismiindi  Feyerabendii.  M.D.LXXXIL  [Colophon.]  Francforti, 
Ex  Officina  Martini  Lechleri,  Lnpensis  Sigismvndi  Feyerabendii. 
M.D.LXXXIL    4to.    Woodents. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  20  leaves,  the  last  blank  ;  A — P  in  fours,  the  last 
leaf  blank. 

LOPEZ  DE  MENDOQA,  Don  YHigo.  Prouerbios  y  Sentencias 
de  Lucio  Anneo  Seneca,  y  de  Don  Yiiigo  Lopez  de  Mendoga,  Marques 
de  Santillana.  Glosados  por  el  Doctor  Pedro  Diaz  de  Toledo.  En 
Anvers,  En  casa  de  Jnau  Steelsio.  M.  D.  LII.  Con prinilcgio  Imperial. 
Sm.  8vo. 

A — Kk  in  eights. 

On  folio  148  is  a  second  title— "  Prouerbios  de  don  Inigo  Lopez  de  Mendoga, 
Marques  de  Santillana  :  Glosados  por  el  doctor  Pedro  Diaz  de  Toledo." 

This  edition  appears  to  have  been  known  to  Salvd  only  through  the  mention 
made  of  it  by  Sanchez,  and  seems  to  be  the  only  edition  witli  the  commentary  of 
Pedro  de  Diaz. 


1672  APPENDIX. 

LUZERO.  Auto  llamado  luzero  de  nuestra  saluacion,  que  trata 
el  despedimiento  que  hizo  nuestro  Seiior  lesu  Christo  de  su  bedita 
madre :  estando  en  Betliania  para  yr  a  Hierusalem.  En  que  se  con- 
tienen  passes  muy  deuotos  y  razonamientos  contemplatiuos,  en  que 
podra  el  Christiano  conteplar  la  passion  de  Christo,  y  compasion  de  su 
bendita  madre.  Niieiiainctc  sacado  a  litz  por  Auzias  Isquicrdo,  librero 
Visto  y  examinado,  y  con  licencia  Impresso  en  Cucnca  en  casa  de  Bar- 
tholomc  Sehna  afio  de  mil y  seiseientos  y  tres.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  metre.     Beneath  the  title  is  a  rude  woodcut. 

Auto  llamado  Luzero  de  nuestra  saluacio,  que  trata  del  des- 


pedimiento que  hizo  nuestro  Seiior  lesu  Christo Niieiia- 

mente  sacado  a  luz por  Aiizias  Yzquierdo  libera.     Visto  y  examinado, y 
con  licencia  Impresso  Afio.  1607.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     Beneath  the  title  are  three  small  rude  woodcuts. 


M. 

[MATHER,  Cotton.]  Pietas  in  Patriam  :  The  Life  of  His  Ex- 
cellency Sir  Williams  Phips,  Knt.  Late  Captain  General,  and  Governour 
in  Chief  of  the  Province  of  the  Massachuset-Bay,  New-England. 
Containing  the  Memorable  Changes  undergone,  and  Actions  performed 
by  him.  Written  by  one  intimately  acquainted  with  him.  Discite 
virtutem  ex  hoc,  verumque  laborcm.  London  :  Printed  by  Sam.  Bridge 
in  Austin-Friers  for  Nath.  Hiller.  .  .  .   1697.     Sm.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves,  title  on  A  2  ;  a,  2  leaves ;  Notice  by  Nathaniel  Mather  and  others 
respecting  the  author,  l  leaf;  C — L  3  in  eights  and  fours  alternately. 

The  volume  concludes  with  an  Elegy  by  the  writer  on  Sir  W.  Phips,  who  died, 
at  London,  Feb.  18,  1694-5.  There  is  a  dedicatory  preface  by  Nathaniel  Mather 
to  the  Earl  of  Bellomont,  in  which  he  refers  to  the  author,  but  does  not  say  who  he 
was.  It  was,  however,  reprinted  in  Cotton  Mather's  "  Magnalia  Christiana,"  1702, 
as  his  work. 


N. 

NEW   ENGLAND.    The  Day-Breaking,  If  not  The  Sun-Rising 

of  the  Gospell  with  the  Indians  in  New-England London, 

Printed  by  Rich.  Cotes,  for  Fidk  Clifton,  and  are  to  bee  sold  at  his  shop 
under  Saint  Margarets  Church  on  A'czo-fsh-street  Hill,  1647.     4^^- 

A — D  2  in  fours. 

On  the  back  of  the  title  of  this  anonymous  tract  is  the  following  notice,  signed 
Nathan  IVardc:  "  To  the  Reader,  Hee  that  pen'd  these  following  Relations,  is  a 
Minister  of  Christ  in  New-England,  so  eminently  godly  and  faithfull,  that  what  he 
here  reports,  as  an  eye  or  an  earc  witnesse,  is  not  to  be  c|uestioned  :  Were  he 
willing  his  name  should  bee  mentioned,  it  would  bee  an  abundant,  if  not  a  redundant, 
Testimonial!  to  all  that  know  him." 


APPENDIX.  1673 

NEW  JERSEY.  An  answer  to  tlic  Council  of  Proprietor's  two 
publications  ;  Sett  forth  at  Peith-Amboy  the  25th  of  March  1746,  and 
the  25th  of  March  1747.  As  also  some  observations  on  Mr.  Ncvil's 
Speech  to  the  House  of  Assembly,  in  Relation  to  a  Petition  presented 
to  the  House  of  Assembly,  met  at  Trentown  in  the  Province  of  New 
Jersey,  in  May,  1746.  [Colophon.]  New- York  :  Printed  and  Sold  by 
the  Widow  Catherine  Zeugcr,  at  the  Printing-Office  in  Stonc-Strcct, 
1747.     Folio.     R.  M. 

Pp.  I — 13,  without  a  regular  title. 


o. 

OVID.  Ovid's  Metamorphosis  Englished.  By  G.[eorge]  S.[andys]. 
Imprinted  at  London  AIDC.XXVI.     Cum  Priuilegio.     Folio. 

The  minde  of  the  frontispiece  and  engraved  title,  2  leaves.  Dedication  to  Prince 
Charles  with  portrait  of  Ovid  by  Marshall  at  the  back,  and  the  first  leaf  of  the  life 
of  Ovid,  2  leaves  ;  b,  6  leaves.  A — Rr  in  fours  ;  Ss,  6  leaves,  the  last  bearing 
only  the  colophon. 


PEASANT  WAR.  Eyn  Warhafftig  erschrocklich  Histori  von 
der  Bewrischen  vffrur,  so  sich  durch  Martin  Luthers  leer  inn  Teutscher 
nation.  Anno  1525  erhebt,  vnd  leyder  noch  nit  gar  crlosclien  ist 
\p.  O.  u.  y.]     4to.     Woodcnts. 

Sixteen  leaves.  This  curious  tract  on  the  peasant  war  in  Germany  is  written  in 
verse,  and  calls  upon  the  Emperor  to  put  an  end  to  the  war  and  to  the  doings  of 
Martin  Luther. 

PERROTT,    John.      A  Sea  of  the  Seed's  Sufferings,  through 

which  runs  a  River  of  Rich  Rejoycing Written  in  the  Year, 

1659,  in  Rome — Prison  of  Mad-men,  By  the  Extream  Suffering  Servant 

of  the  Lord,  John.    [Perrot.]     London,  Printed  for  Robert  Wilson.  .  .  . 

1 66 1.     4to. 

A — F  3  in  fours.     In  verse. 

PINES,  Isle  of.  Ontdeckinge  van  't  Eyiandt  van  Pines,  Zijnde 
een  waerachtige  Beschryvinge  van  't  vierde  Eyiandt  in't  Zuyder  onbe- 
kent  Lant,  zo  van  desselfs  Vruchten,  Dieren,  Gelegentheyt,  als  mede 
de  voort-teelinge  der  Engelse  Natie,  &c.  op't  selve  Eyiandt.  t' Amster- 
dam, Voor  Jacob  Vinckcl,  Bocckverkooper  in  de  Beurstraet,  in  de  History- 
schryvcr,  1668. 

Four  leaves. 

The  Isle  of  Pines,  Or,  A  late  Discovery  of  a  fourth  Island 

in  Terra  Australis  Incognita.     Being  a  true  Relation  of  certain  Eng- 
lish persons,  who  in  the  dayes  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  making  a  Voyage 


i674  APPENDIX. 

to  the  East  India,  were  cast  away,  and  wracked  upon  the  island 
near  to  the  coast  of  Terra  Australis  Incognita,  and  all  drowned, 
except  one  Man  and  four  Women,  whereof  one  was  a  Negro.  And 
now  lately,  Anno  Dom.  1667,  a  Dutch  Ship  driven  by  foul  weather 
there  by  chance  have  found  their  Posterity  (speaking  good  English)  to 
amount  to  ten  or  twelve  thousand  persons,  as  they  suppose.  The 
whole  Relation  follows,  written  and  left  by  the  man  himself  a  little 

before  his  death,  and  declared  to  the  Dutch  by  his  Grandchild 

Londoji,  Printed  by  S.  G.  for  Allen  Banks  and  Charles  Harper  at  the 
Flower-Delidce  near  Cripplegate  Church.     1 668.     4to. 

A — B  2  in  fours.     This  is  a  translation  of  the  preceding  tract. 

PINES,  Isle  of.  A  New  and  further  Discovery  of  the  Isle  of 
Pines.  In  a  Letter  from  Cornelius  van  Sloetten  a  Dutchman  (who  first 
discovered  the  same  in  the  Year  1667)  to  a  Friend  of  his  in  London. 

With  a  Relation  of  his  Voyage  to  the  East  Indies London, 

Printed  for  Allen  Battkes  and  Charles  Harper.  ....  1668.   4to. 

A — C  in  fours. 

Verhael  Van  der  wonderlijken  Oproer,  Voorgevallen  in  de 

Provincie  van  Malanbruino,  gelegen  een  graed  bezuiden  het  Eyland 
Pines  :  ende  hoe  de  zelve  is  gestilt.  t'Samenspraek  tusschen  dric 
Personen  te  Wacht  zijnde,  Arent,  Gijsbert,  Dirck.  Etiani  sub  fictis 
nominibns  vera  luditur  fabula.    M.DC.LXXII. 

Four  leaves. 

PLEASANT  CONCEITED  COMEDY.  A  Pleasant  Conceited 
Comedy,  wherein  is  shewed,  how  a  man  may  choose  a  good  wife  from 
a  bad.  As  it  hath  beene  sundry  times  acted  by  the  Erie  of  Worcesters 
Servants.     London,  Printed  by  lohn  Norton.     1634.    4to. 

A — K  in  fours. 


R. 

RAPPRESENTAZIONE.  La  Rapresentatione  di  Santa  Agata 
Vcrgine  &  Martire.  Nuouamente  Ristampata.  [Colophon.]  In 
Firenzc  I  Anno  del  nostro  Signore.     AI.D.L  V.  del  ineso  d'Agosto.     4to. 

With  two  woodcuts. 

REVOLUTION  OF  1688.     A  Collection  of  Papers  relating  to 
the  Present  juncture  of  Affairs  in  England,  viz.  The  Humble  Petition 
of  Seven  Bishops  to  his  Majesty.  .  .  .  Printed  in  tlie  Year,  1688.    4to. 
Title-page,  i  leaf ;  B — F  i  in  fours. 

ROSSO,  GlUl.lO  Raviolio.  I  svccessi  d'Inghiltcrradopola  morte 
di  Odoardo  sesto  fino  alia  givnta  in  qvel  regno  Del  Sercniss.  Don 
Filippo  d'Austria  Principe  di  Spagna.    Scritti  volgarmente  da  Givlio 


APPENDIX.  1675 

Raviglio  Rosso  da  Fcrrara.  Con  alcvnc  annotationi  a  maggiorc  in- 
telligcnza  di  quclli.  Et  vna  oratione  di  M.  Alberto  Lollio  ncl  ritorno 
di  detto  Regno  allVbedienza  dclla  Sede  Apostolica  a  Principi  di 
quel  Consiglio.  In  Fcrrara  Appresso  Francesco  di  Rossi  da  Valensa. 
M.D.LX.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves  ;  sigs.  B — li  2  in  fours. 

This  book  is  substantially  the  same  as  the  "  Historia  delle  cose  occorse  nel 
regno  d'Inghilterra,"  printed  at  Venice,  1558  ;  but  in  the  preface  the  author  com- 
plains that  the  Venice  edition  was  printed  without  his  knowledge  or  consent,  lie 
also  tells  us  that  he  came  to  England  in  the  suite  of  Philip  II.,  and  a  great  part  of 
his  relation  has  therefore  a  special  value  as  being  written  from  his  personal  know- 
ledge and  observation. 

S. 

SPENSER,  E.  A  view  of  the  state  of  Ireland,  Written  dialogue- 
wise  betweene  Eudoxus  and  Irena^us,  By  Edmund  Spenser  Esq.  in 
the  yeare  1596.  Whercunto  is  added  the  History  of  Ireland,  By  Ed- 
mund Campion, Published  by  Sir  James  Ware  Knight.    Dublin, 

Printed  by  the  Society  of  Stationers.    MDCXXXIII.    Folio.    R. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — K  in  sixes  ;  k,  4  leaves  ;  L,  4  leaves.  A 
new  title — "  Two  Histories  of  Ireland.  The  one  written  by  Edmund  Campion,  the 
other  by  Meredith  Hanmer  D''  of  Divinity.  Dublin,  Printed  by  the  Society  of 
Stationers.  M.  DC.  XXXIII."  Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  A — M  4  in 
sixes  ;  M  4,  with  the  errata  ;  Aa — Tt  4  in  sixes,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

T. 

TELLEZ,  Balthezar.  Hystoria  geral  de  Ethiopia  a  Alta,  ov 
Preste  loam,  e  do  qve  nella  obraram  os  Padres  da  Companhia  de 
lesvs  :  composta  na  mesma  Ethiopia,  pelo  Padre  Manoel  d'Almeyda, 
Natvral  de  Vizer,  Provincial,  e  Visitador,  qve  foy  na  India.  Abbre- 
viada  com  nova  relaygam  e  methodo,  pelo  Padre  Balthezar  Tellez, 

Natural  de  Lisboa Em  Coitnbra  .  .  .  Na  Officina  de  Manoel 

Dias Anno  do  Scnhor  de  mil  &  seyscentos  &  scsscnta.    Folio. 

BR.  M. 

§,  8  leaves,  including  half-title,  engraved  title,  and  printed  title  ;  §§,  8  leaves  ; 
§§§,  5  leaves  ;  A — Qqq  3  in  sixes.     At  p.  14  is  a  map  of  the  Nile. 

THEATRE  PLATS.  The  Theatre  Plats  of  Three  old  English 
Dramas  :  namely,  of  the  Battle  of  Alcazar,  Frederick  and  Basilea,  and 
of  the  Dead  Man's  Fortune.  From  the  Originals.  .  .  .  Edited  by  J.O. 
Halliwell.    London,  i860.    Folio. 

Twenty-six  copies  privately  printed. 

TYBURN  GHOST.  The  Tyburn-Ghost :  Or,  The  Strange  Down- 
fall of  the  Gallows.  A  most  true  Relation  how  the  famous  Triple- 
Tree  neer  Paddinton  was  on  Tuesday-night  last  (the  third  of  this 


1676  APPENDIX. 

instant  September)  wonderfully  pluckt  up  by  the  Roots,  and  de- 
molisht  by  certain  Evil-Spirits.  To  wliich  is  added,  Squire  Ketch's 
Lamentation  for  the  loss  of  his  Shop,  &c.  With  allowance.  London  : 
Printed  for  L.  C.  1678.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

TYSON,  Edward.  Orang-Outang,  sive  Homo  Sylvestris :  Or, 
The  Anatomy  of  a  Pygmie.    Londojt  .  .  MDCXCIX.    4to.    Plates. 

In  two  parts.  The  second  consists  of  an  essay  concerning  the  Pygmies, 
the  Cynocephali,  the  Satyrs,  and  the  Sphinxes  of  the  Ancients,  contending  that  they 
were  all  apes  or  monkeys,  and  not  men,  "  as  formerly  pretended." 


V. 

VIRGILIUS  MARO,  P.  Bucolica,  Georgica  et  yEnjeis,  illustrata, 
ornata  et  accuratissime  impressa.  Impcnsis  Knapton  et  G.  Sandby. 
1750.    2  vols.    8vo.    G.  M. 

Opera,  perpetuo  commentario  ad  modum  Joannis  Bond  ex- 

plicuit  Fr.  Dubner.    Paris  ex  Typogr.  F.  Didot.    1858.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 


The  XII.  Aeneids  of  Virgil,  the   most  renowned  Laureate 

Prince  of  Latine  Poets  :  Translated  into  English  decasyllabics  By  lohn 
Vicars.  1632.  Are  to  be  sold  by  N.  Alsop  at  the  Angell  in  Popes  head 
ally.    8vo. 

A — Dd  in  eights.     The  title  is  engraved. 

Dedicated  to  the  Lord  John,  the  Lord  George,  and  the  Lord  Bemhard  Stewart, 
sons  of  the  Duke  of  Lenox.  There  is  a  short  address  to  the  translator  in  prose  by 
his  cousin,  Thomas  Vicars,  B.U. 

w. 

WAGNER,  G.  De  originibus  Americanis,  dissertatio.  .  .  .  A.  D. 
28.  April.  A.  O.  R.  M.  D.  C.  LXIX.    Lipsice,  Uteris  Colerianis.    [1769.] 

4to. 

Title,  &c.,  2  leaves  ;  A — E  iii  in  fours. 

WALSINGHAM,  Tho.  de.  Historia  breuis  Thomse  Walsingham, 
ab  Edwardo  primo,  ad  Henricum  quintum.  Londini  Excusum  apud 
Henriann  Binncman  Typograpluiin.  sub  insigno  Syrenis.  Anno  Domini. 
1574.    Folio.    R. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves,  the  first  blank.  Pp.  1-45S.  Index,  4  leaves. 
In  the  same  volume  is  contained  : — 

Ypodigma  Nevstris  vel  Normannia;  :  per  Thomam  Walsingham.  Ab  irruptione 
Normannorum  usq,  ad  annum.  6.  regni  llenrici  quinti.  LonJini  in  cedibus loliannis 
Daij.     1574. 

Title  and  table  of  years,  1  leaves  ;  A — D  d  in  fours,  except  H,  which  has  only 
2  leaves,  and  Z,  which  is  omitted. 


AUTOGRAPH     LETTERS 

AND    OTHER    DOCUMENTS. 


gs 


AUTOGRAPH    LETTERS   AND   OTHER 
DOCUMENTS. 

AKENSIDE,  Mark.  b.  1721,  d.  1770.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
his  sister.     Dated  Sept.  i6th,  1762. 

"  Hopes  that  Mr.  Addison  continues  in  tolerable  ease  from  his  complaint,"  &c. 

ANNE  BOLEYN,  Queen  of  England,  b.  about  1500.  d.  1536. 
Autograph  signature  to  a  document,  "Anne  tlie  qucne."  Dated 
March  8  [1534.''].  Addressed  "To  o'  trusty  and  right  wellbeloued 
Thomas  Cromwell  esquyer  Secretary  to  my  lord.'' 

"  Trusty  and  ryght  welbeloved  we  gret  you  well  desyring  you  to  gyve  firme  cre- 
dence unto  o''  trusty  and  ryght  welbeloved  Counsaylor  George  Tayllor  squier  o"  re- 
ceyvor  in  those  thyngs  as  he  hath  in  comaundment  of  us  to  showe  unto  you  con- 
cernyng  o''  welbeloved  John  Baptist  the  Kyngmy  lords  dyer,  geven  under  o' signet 
at  my  seyd  lords  manor  of  hampton  cort  the  viii'  day  of  Marche." 

ANNE  OF  CLEVES,  Queen  of  England,  b.  about  1520,  d.  1557. 
Autograph  signature,  "  Anna  tlie  dowghter  of  Cleves,"  to  a  vellum 
document,  dated  1552. 

ANNE  OF  DENMARK,  Queen  of  James  I.  Married  1589, 
d.  1619.  L.  s.,  with  autograph  postscript  of  five  lines.  To  the  Arch- 
duchess of  Austria.    Dated  Lond.  July  29,  1605.    IVii/i  seal  and  silk. 

She  wishes  the  Archduchess  all  happiness  and  prosperity,  and  continues,  "  Et  de 
luy  pouvoir  souhaicter  le  mesme  bonheur  quelle  me  donne  de  mon  accouchement,  afin 
quelle  puisse  veoir  en  sa  lignee,  la  benediction  et  contentement  que  selon  son  voeu, 
jespereen  lamienne"  [she  had  thirteen  children].  Her  postscript  apologizes  for  not 
having  written  with  her  own  hand,  "  car  j'estois  par  le  temps  e  par  mes  affaires  fort 
pressde." 

ANNE,  Queen  of  England,  b.  1664,  d.  1714.  A.  L.  s.,  with 
superscription,  "For  Mr.  Secretary  Harley."  Dated  "Windsor,  No.  ye 
21,  1713." 

"  I  am  exstream  sorry  for  your  great  misfortune,  and  I  hope  you  are  soe  just  to 
me  as  to  beleeve  no  body  can  be  more  touched  with  it,  I  pray  God  to  support  you 
under  this  affliction  wch  is  all  I  shall  trouble  you  wth  at  this  time." 

ANQUETIL  DUPERRON,  A.  H.    b.  1731,  d.   1805.    A.  L.  s. 
Declining  to  accept  of  an  office  which  had  been  offered  to  him. 
"  Je  refuse  simplement  et  absolument  la  Pension  &  ses  accessoires." 


i68o  BACH—BOXALL. 

BACH,  John  Sebastian,  b.  1685,  d.  1754.  i.  Autograph 
Music.  4  pages  folio.  "  Prelude  pour  la  Luth  ou  Cembal,  par  J.  S. 
Bach."     2.  Signature,  "J.  S.  Bach,  1733." 

BACON,  Sir  Francis,  Baron  Verulam.  b.  1561,  d.  1626.  L.  s. 
To  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer.  Dated  Greenwich,  June  13, 
1619. 

Announcing  the  departure  of  Andrew  Saintlier,  the  ambassador  of  Denmark, 
and  requesting  the  payment  to  him  of  ^loo  before  his  departure. 

BEAUMARCHAIS,  P.  A.  Caron  de.  b.  1732,  d.  1799.  A.  L.  s. 
Addressed,  *'  Le  Ministre  de  Finance,  Ramel.  Ce  28  Thermidor, 
an  4." 

BEETHOVEN,  L.  Van.  b.  1770,  d.  1827.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed 
to  Count  Oppersdorf,  1st  November,  1808. 

Regrets  having  had  to  sell  the  Symphony  written  for  the  Count ;  has  been  offered 
the  post  of  "  Kapellmeister  "  by  the  King  of  Westphalia,  &c. 

Autograph  Music.    10  pages  folio.    Song,  "An  die  Hofnung." 


BERANGER,  P.  J.  de.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Madame  Lemaire. 
31st  October,  1827. 

BEWICK,  T.  b.  1773,  d.  1828.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Messrs. 
Tipper  and  Fry.     Newcastle,  25  April,  1820. 

Requests  a  supply  of  imperial  paper  for  a  new  edition  of  "The  History  of  British 
Birds." 

BEZA,  Theodore,  b.  1519,  d.  1605.  A.  L.  s.  In  Latin,  relating 
to  ecclesiastical  affairs. 

BOLINGBROKE,  Lord.  b.  167S,  d.  1751.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed 
to  Mr.  Worsley,  Whitehall,  Aug.  10,  1714. 

An  interesting  letter,  full  of  advice  and  details  as  regards  the  war,  the  treaty  of 
Portugal,  and  other  matters  of  considerable  moment. 

BOSSUET,  J.  B.,  Eveque  de  Meaux.  b.  1617,  d.  1704.  A.  L.  s. 
Addressed  to  "  Le  R.  P.  Mabillon,  Religieux  Benedictin  a  Paris." 
Dated  9  Oct.,  1688. 

Another  letter.     Addressed  to  the  same.    Dated  "  20  Mai, 


1701." 

BOXALL,  Sir  W.     b.  1800,  d.  1879.    A.  L.  s.     Dated  7  Nov., 
1874. 


BUCKLE— CASAS.  i68i 

BUCKLE,  H.T.  b.  i82i,d.  1862.  A.L.s.  A  long  and  interesting 
letter,  dated  "The  Nile,  2  February"  [1862].   Addressed  to  Mr.  Huth. 

BURLEIGH,  William  Cecil,  Lord.  b.  1520,  d.  1598.  A.  L.  s. 
Superscription  to  Mr.  Peter,  auditor  of  the  receipts  at  the  Exchequer, 
Sept.  26,  1574. 

On  financial  matters,  in  which  he  speaks  of  Secretary  Walsingham. 

BURNS,  R.  b.  1759,  d.  1796.  Autograph  MS.  of  the  famous 
Cantata  of  "  The  Jolly  Beggars." 

BYRON,  George  Gordon,  Lord.  b.  1788,  d.  1824.  A.  L.  s. 
Addressed  to  John  Hunt.    April  24th,  1823.    With  seal. 

Respecting  proof  sheets  of  "  Don  Juan."  Talks  of  a  new  edition  of  his  collected 
works,  &c. 

CABANIS,  P.  J.  G.  b.  1757,  d.  1808.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  "  15  fruc- 
tidor  an.  12,"  addressed  to  M.  Bitaube,  and  thanking  him  for  a  set  of 
his  works. 

CALVIN,  John.  b.  1509,  d.  1564.  A.  L.  s.  In  Latin.  Dated 
Geneva,  May  15,  1560. 

CAMBACERES,  Arch-Chancellor  of  the  French  Empire,  b.  1754, 
d.  1824.  A.L.s.  Addressed  to  Madame  Bonaparte.  Dated  June  18, 
1811. 

CAMPBELL,  Thomas,  b.  1777,  d.  1844.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
Francis  Freeling,  Esq. 

"  After  leaving  Liverpool,  I  have  engaged  to  stop  a  month  to  lecture  at  the  Royal 
Institution  of  Birmingham.  I  know  not  if  this  business  of  lecturing  be  the  most 
honourable  in  the  world.  Perhaps  an  itinerant  lecturer  conveys  no  great  idea  of 
respectability,  but  it  is  a  very  pleasant  employment." 

CANOVA,  Antonio,  b.  1757,  d.  1802.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  "  Rome 
29  Janvier,  1809,"  in  French. 

CASAS,  Bartolomeo  de  las.  Bishop  of  Chiapa.  b.  1474,  d.  1 566. 
A.  L.  s.  In  Spanish.  Addressed  to  the  President  and  Council  {oydores). 
Dated  22  Octob.  1545. 

Las  Casas  is  chiefly  known  for  the  efforts  he  made  in  favour  of  the  aborigines  of 
America,  and  for  their  protection  against  the  oppression  of  his  own  countrymen.  In 
this  long  and  most  interesting  letter,  he  prays — 

"  That  your  Lordships  will  effectually  remedy  the  oppressions  which  are  fallen 
upon  the  native  Indian  flock  throughout  my  bishopric,  especially  the  excessive 
tribute  demanded  by,  and  extortion  of,  the  Spaniards,  who  treat  the  people  as  wild 
beasts,  by  night  and  by  day,  and  keep  them,  though  they  are  free,  in  slavery,  and 
harass  them  in  divers  ways,  contrary  to  divine  law  and  natural  reason  ;  and  that 


i682  C  ATI  NAT— CHARLES  I. 

you  will  arrest  the  diminution  and  total  destruction  (acabamientd)  of  the  entire  body 
of  inhabitants,  who  are  perishing  not  only  in  body  but  in  soul,  because,  since  the 
Spaniards  keep  them  always  in  bondage,  the  Religious  cannot  see  them  in  order  to 
preach  to  them  the  law  of  God,  and  instruct  them.  And  to  this  end  it  is  necessary 
that  your  lordships  should  give  them  that  liberty  which  his  Majesty  has  conferred 
upon  them  by  his  late  ordinances  granted  to  them  as  to  his  free  subjects." 

There  is  also  in  the  collection  a  long  letter  of  Las  Casas,  in  Latin,  in  the  hand- 
writing of  a  secretar}^,  but  signed  by  himself,  which  likewise  relates  to  the  treat- 
ment of  the  Indians  by  the  Spaniards. 

CATHERINE  DE  MEDICIS,  Queen  of  Henri  II.  of  France. 
b.  1 5 19,  d.  1589.  A.  L.  s.  Superscription  to  the  King,  her  son 
(Henri  III.),  from  Souterane,  June  6,  1569. 

She  has  heard  of  the  death  of  AUuy^,  the  loss  of  whom  she  very  much  laments,  and 
earnestly  recommends  his  wife  to  the  King  ;  warning  him  that  a  battle  is  imminent, 
and  the  enemy  at  half  a  league  from  her  residence. 

CATINAT,  N.,  Marshal  of  France,  b.  1637,  d.  1712.  Report 
on  the  proceedings  of  the  Army,  addressed  to  the  King.  Dated  "  Au 
Camp  de  Marsaghe  ce  7  d'Octobre  1693." 

The  report  occupies  thirteen  pages,  nearly  eight  of  which  are  in  the  hand  of 
Catinat ;  the  remainder  in  that  of  a  secretary. 

CAYLUS,  COMTE  DE.  b.  1692,  d.  1765.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  "  Paris  3 
Dec,  1745." 

CHARLES  THE  BOLD,  Duke  of  Burgundy,  b.  1433,  d.  1477. 
L.  s.  In  French.  Superscription  to  "  Les  gens  de  comptes  du  Due 
de  Bourbonnais,  a  Moulins,"  Mons,  Nov.  24,  1458. 

Claiming,  as  Comte  de  Charolais,  the  deeds,  charters,  accounts,  papers  and  in- 
formation relative  to  his  manor  and  lands  at  Chastelchinon. 

CHARLES  v.,  Emperor,  and  King  of  Spain,  b.  1500,  d.  1558. 
Doc.  s.  on  vellum,  folio,  in  Latin,  Augsburg,  June  10,  1548. 

Increasing  to  two  hundred  scudi,  the  annual  pension  granted  to  Titiano  Vecellio, 
to  be  paid  from  the  revenues  of  the  Milan  Chamber. 

CHARLES  IX.,  King  of  France,  b.  1550,  d.  1574.  A.  L.  s. 
Addressed  to  M.  de  la  Mole. 

Requesting  him  to  hasten  the  negotiations  of  a  marriage,  which  should  be  for 
him  a  very  pleasant  thing.    La  Mole  was  afterwards  beheaded. 

CHARLES  I.,  King  of  England,  b.  1600,  d.  1649.  -Aut.  s.  as 
Prince  of  Wales,  to  a  document  on  vellum.     Dated  Nov.  20,  1621. 

A.  L.  s.     Addressed  to  Sir  Edward  Nicholas.     Dated  Wo- 


burn,  27  July,  1647. 

"  I  have  nothing  of  that  secresie  at  this  tyme  to  wryte  unto  you  -vi^  does  much 
require  the  use  of  a  cyfer."  He  begs  him  to  assure  his  friends  that  he  shall  be  "as  faith- 
ful to  them  as  their  owen  harts  can  wish.''    He  then  speaks  of  "  degrees  amongst 


CHARLES  II.— C LIVE.  1683 

you  of  w""  on  my  word  you  are  in  the  first  ranke."  A  small  part  is  in  cypher,  which 
the  King  has  designated  "  Oweld  Cyfer." 

CHARLES  II.,  King  of  England,  b.  1630,  d.  1685.  Aut.  s.  to 
a  warrant  for  thepayment  of  ;{Jioo  to  the  widow  of  General  Langhornc. 
June  28,  1676. 

CLARENDON,  Sir  Edward  Hyde,  Earl  of.  b.  1608,  d.  1674. 
A.  L.  s.    Dated  "  Hague,  this  27  Wensday  9  at  night." 

Concerning  the  Order  for  wearing  the  Standard  on  board  the  Admiral.  Prince 
Charles  informs  Lord  Ormond  what  arts  are  used  to  bring  the  fleet  to  nothing  ; 
acknowledges  all  that  is  left  of  it  to  be  due  to  Prince  Rupert's  industry  and  dexterity. 
Evil  affected  persons  labour  a  misunderstanding  between  Prince  Rupert  and  Lord 
Ormond,  &c. 

CLIVE,  Catherine.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  David  Garrick. 
Endorsed  by  Garrick,  "  My  Pivy,  excellent !  "  Dated  Twickenham, 
Jan.  23,  1776. 

"  Is  it  really  true,  that  you  have  put  an  end  to  the  glory  of  Drury  Lane  Theatre ; 
if  it  is  so;  let  me  congratulate  dear  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Garrick  on  their  approaching 
happiness.  I  know  what  it  will  be  ;  you  cannot  yet  have  an  idea  what  it  will  be  ; 
but  if  you  should  still  be  so  wicked  not  to  be  satisfied  with  that  unbounded,  uncom- 
mon degree  of  fame  you  have  received  as  an  actor  ;  and  which  no  other  actor  ever 
did  receive — nor  no  other  actor  ever  can  receive  ;  I  say  if  you  should  still  long  to  be 
dipping  your  fingers  in  their  Theatrical  pudding  (now  without  plumbs)  you  will  be 
no  Garrick  for  the/ny.  In  the  height  of  the  publick  admiration  for  you,  when  you 
were  never  mentioned  with  any  other  appilation,  but  the  Garrick,  the  charming  man, 
the  fine  fellow  ;  the  delightful  creature ; — both  by  Men  and  Ladies.  When  they  were 
admiring  every  thing  you  did,  and  every  thing  you  scribbled  ;  at  the  very  time  /  the 
pivy,  was  aliveing  witness,  that  they  did  not  know,  nor  could  they  know,  nor  could 
they  be  sensible,  of  half  your  perfections.  I  have  seen  you  with  your  Magical 
hammer  in  your  hand,  endeverin<;  to  beat  your  ideas  into  the  heads  of  creatures 
who  had  none  of  their  own  ;  I  have  seen  you  with  lamb  like  patience  endevering 
to  make  them  comprehend  you  ;  and  I  have  seen  you  when  that  could  not  be  done, 
I  have  seen  your  lamb  turn  into  a  lion,  by  this  your  great  labour  and  pains  the  pub- 
lick  was  entertained,  they  thought  they  all  acted  very  fine,  they  did  not  see  you 
pull  the  wires."  &c.  &c. 

"  What  a  strange  jumble  of  people  they  have  put  in  the  papers,  as  the  purchasers 
of  the  patent ;  1  thought  I  should  have  died  with  laughing  when  I  saw  a  Man  Mid- 
wife amongst  them  ;  I  suppose  they  have  taken  him  in  to  prevent  miscarriages  ;  I 
have  some  opinion  of  Mr.  Sheridan  as  I  hear  every  body  say  he  is  very  sensible  ; 

then  he  has  a  divine  wife,  and  I  loved  his  mother  dearly ' '  Now  let  me  say  one 

word  about  my  poor  unfortunate  friend  Miss  Pope.  I  know  how  much  she  dis- 
obliged you — .  But  by  this  time  I  hope  you  have  forgot  your  resentment,  and 
will  look  upon  her  late  behaviour  as  having  been  taken  with  a  dreadful  fit  of 
vanity,  which  for  that  time  took  her  senses  from  her,  and  having  been  tutored  by 
an  affected  beast  who  helped  to  turn  her  head,  but  pray  recollect  her  in  the  other 
light,  a  faithful  creature  to  you,  on  whom  you  can  always  depend,  certainly  a  good 
actress,  amiable  in  her  character,  both  in  her  being  a  very  modest  woman,  and  very 
good  to  her  family.'  '  Now  my  dear  Mr.  Garrick  I  hope  it  is  not  yet  too  late  to  rein- 
state her  before  you  quit  your  affairs  there,  I  beg  it,  I  intreat  it.'"  &c. 


i684  C  LIVE— CROMWELL. 

CLIVE,  Catherine.    A.  L.  s.     Addressed  to  Alex.  Pope. 
"  My  dear  Popy.     The  Jack  I  must  have  ;  and  I  suppose  the  cook  will  be  as 

much  delighted  with  it  as  a  fine  lady  with  a  birthday  suit ; The  Jack  must 

carry  about  six  or  seven  and  twenty  pounds." 

COLBERT,  J.  B.  b.  1619,  d.  1683.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  the 
eminent  scholar  Etienne  Baluze.     Dated  June  9,  1668. 

COLERIDGE,  S.  T.  b.  1772,  d.  1834.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
Mr.  Cottle.     [Oct.,  1S07.] 

He  accepts  a  generous  offer  that  has  been  made  by  some  one  unknown  to  him  to 
lend  him  a  sum  of  money  unconditionally  for  two  years. 

Autograph  Sonnet,  "  To  a  lady,"  beginning,  "If  grief  dismiss 

me  not  to  them  that  rest." 

COMINES,  Philippe  de.  b.  1445,  d.  1509.  L.  s.  Superscrip- 
tion, Venice,  Nov.  27,  to  the  Duke  of  Milan. 

Respecting  the  rumours  spread  about  concerning  the  warlike  preparations  by  sea 
and  land  of  the  Venetians,  who  think  of  nothing  else  e.xcept  the  defence  of  their 
territory. 

CONDAMINE,  Ch.  Marie  la.  b.  1701.  d.  1774.  A.  L.  s. 
Dated  from  Porto  Bello,  S.  America.     Feb.  15,  1735. 

CONDE,  Louis  II.  DE  Bourbon,  Prince  de.    b.  i62i,d.  1686. 
A.   L.  s.    Addressed  to  Cardinal  Mazarine.     Dated  Oct.  24,  1649. 
On  military  affairs.    Mentions  Marshal  Gramont  and  Monsieur  du  Plessis. 

CORTONA,  Pietro  Berrettini  da.  b.  1596,  d.  1669.  A.  L.  s. 
Dated  "  di  Fiorenza  li  11.  di  giugnio,  1648." 

COWPER,  W.  b.  1731,  d.  1800.  A.  L.  s.  To  Mr.  John  Dun- 
combe.     Dated  June  16,  1757. 

"  For  my  own  part,  I  believe,  no  man  ever  quitted  his  native  place  with  less 
Regrett  than  myself,"  &c. 

CROMWELL,  Richard,  Protector  of  England,  b.  1622,  d.  171 2. 
L.  s.  To  the  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty.  Dated  Whitehall, 
April  26,  1655. 

Commending  Robert  Trimmer,  "alwaies  faithfull  in  the  service  of  the  State,' 
for  employment  in  any  one  of  the  ships  that  may  be  vacant. 

CROMWELL,  Thomas,  Earl  of  Essex,  b.  1490,  beheaded  1540. 
A.  L.  s.  In  French.  Addressed  to  the  French  Ambassador  in  Lon- 
don.    Dated  Stepney,  1 5  September. 

He  announces  the  arrival  of  the  Ambassadors  of  Denmark  and  Norway  at  the 
Court  of  the  Queen  Dowager  of  Hungary  to  conclude  and  sign  a  treaty  of  alliance. 


CRU  IKS  HANK— EDWARD  IV.  1685 

CRUIKSHANK,  Geo,    b.  1794,  d.  1878.    A.  L.  s.    Addressed 
to  Mr.  Louis  Huth.     Dated  May  29,  1873. 


DE  FOE,  Daniel.     A.  L.  signed  '  D.  F.'     Dated  11  Oct.,  1704. 

"  What  treatment  I  have  had  since  I  have  been  abroad  you  will  see  in  the 
Review,  where  I  have  been  obliged  to  vindicate  myself  by  an  advertisement." 

DENIS,  Madame.  Niece  of  Voltaire.  A.  L.  s.  A  long  and  in- 
teresting letter  respecting  one  of  her  uncle's  dramas.  Dated  "  24 
Aoust."     [1755.] 

DIANA  OF  POICTIERS.  A  MS.  on  19  leaves  of  paper;  17  of 
which  are  occupied  with  the  daily  household  accounts  of  this  cele- 
brated bibliophile  for  the  month  of  August,  1565.  At  the  foot  of  each 
page  is  the  signature  of  her  steward,  and  on  the  last  leaf  is  the  rare 
autograph  signature,  "  Dianne  de  Poytiers."     Small  folio. 

Accompanying  the  docmnent  is  a  brilliant  impression  of  the  rare  private  plate 
of  the  portrait  of  Diana  from  the  original  picture  in  the  possession  of  Earl  Spencer. 

DELAROCHE,  Paul.  b.  1797,  d.  1856.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  Paris, 
10  Septembre,  1829. 

DIGBY,  Sir  Kenelm.  b.  1603,  d.  1665.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
a  nobleman,  proposing  a  year  of  travel  on  the  Continent.  Dated 
Calais,  18  March,  1651. 

DRAKE,  Sir  Francis,  b.  1545,  d.  1596.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed 
to  the  Earl  of  Essex.     Dated  i6th  of  Feby.,  1587. 

A  long  and  interesting  letter,  evidently  relating  to  the  expedition  against  Spain, 
though  very  guardedly  expressed. 

DRYDEN,  John.  b.  163  i,  d.  1700.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Mrs. 
Stewart  at  Cotterstock.     Dated  "Candlemass-day,  1698." 

"  Old  men  are  not  so  insensible  of  beauty  as  it  may  be  you  young  Ladies  think ; 
for  my  own  part  I  must  needs  acknowledge  that  your  fair  eyes  had  made  me  your 

slave  before  I  received  your  fine  presents I  pass  my  time  sometimes  with 

Ovid,  and  sometimes  with  our  Old  English  Poet  Chaucer,  translateing  such  stories 
as  best  please  my  fancy." 

DUDLEY,  Robert,  Earl  of  Leicester,  b.  1532,  d.  1588. 
A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  John  Ottoman  in  Paris.  Dated  Hampton 
Court,  2  Nov.,  1584. 

EDWARD  IV.,  King  of  England,  and  his  brother  Edmund. 
L.    on    paper,    signed    by   them.      i    page   4to.      Dated  "  Londonie, 

9T 


i686  ELIZABETH. 

Die  X  Decembris,  1460."  Letter  of  "cr^ance"  for  Antony  de  la 
Tour,  whom  they  send  to  the  Duke  of  Milan  and  the  Pope  to  im- 
part to  them  their  intentions  and  hopes.  They  crave  the  interest  of 
the  Holy  Father  that  their  projects  may  succeed  (they  contemplate 
nothing  less  than  the  dethronement  of  Henry  VI.),  and  they  rely  upon 
the  Lord  and  the  goodness  of  their  cause.  This  valuable  letter,  be- 
yond its  excessive  rarity,  is  of  such  great  historical  importance  that  it 
is  given  entire. 

"  lUustrissime  Princeps  et  Excellentissime  Domine,  post  officiosas  salutem.  Ex 
relatione  spectabilis  et  generosi  viri  Domini  Antonii  de  Turri,  Regie  Majestatis 
nostre  nuntii  et  Armigeri  intelleximus  de  honorificentia  et  gratitudine  illi  exhibita 
pro  reuerentia  Sacre  Regie  Majestatis  et  etiam  respectu  nostro  :  ac  etiam  de  fauore 
sibi  prestito  in  Romana  curia  apud  Pontificem  maximum  pro  nostris  uotis  et 
honestis  desideriis  impetrandis,  Et  de  singular!  caritate  et  beneuolentia  quam  ad 
nos  et  Statum  nostrum  Excellentia  Vestra  gerit,  pro  quibus  rebus  prefate  Excel- 
lentie  Vestre  cumulatissime  regratiamur.  Et  quoniam  multa  sunt  nobis  cordi  que 
D.  V.  jam  cupimus  reuelari  ideo  eundem  Dominum  Antonium  duximus  remitten- 
dum  ad  Serenissimum  Dominum  Nostrum  Papam  et  Vestram  Excellentiam  de 
intentione  ac  desideriis  nostris  plenissime  informatum.  Quo  circa  rogamus  Excel- 
lentiam Vestram  Excellentiam  ut  ilium  more  suo  solito  gratiose  suscipiat  et  audiat 
ac  plenam  illi  fidem  adhibeat  et  per  eundem  respondere  dignetur.  Speramus  in 
Domino  et  in  virtute  Reverendissimi  Domini  legati  apostolici,  apud  nos  existentis, 
cujus  status  cum  nostris  fortunis  est  conjunctus  quod  rerum  nostrarum  successus 
erit  gloriosus  sicut  idem  Dominus  Antonius  lator  presentium  latius  explicebit. 
Valeat  Excellentia  Vestra  ad  cujus  bene  placita  parati  sumus  :  Datum  Londonie 
die  X  Decembris  MccccLx.  Excellentie  Vestre  amicissimi  et  consanguinei  Eduardus 
Marchie  et  Edmundus  Ruthulandie  comites,  filii  illustrissimi  Principis  Ricardi,  veri, 
justi  et  legitimi  heredis  Regnoioim  Anglie  et  Francie  ac  Dominii  Hybernie,  ducis 
Eboracii,  &c.  "  E.  March(ie).  "E.  Rutland(ie)." 

The  latter  was  murdered  by  Lord  Clifford  at  the  battle  of  Wakefield,  on  the 
24th  of  December,  1460,  when  thirteen  years  of  age,  and  fourteen  days  after  his 
having  signed  the  present  paper. 

ELIZABETH,  Queen  of  England,  b.  1533,  d.  1603.  A.  L.  s. 
In  French.  Addressed  to  Henry  IV.  of  France.  With  seals  and  silk. 
No  date. 

Thanks  him  for  the  portrait  he  has  sent,  but  says  that  the  friendship  of  which 
his  messenger  assures  her  is  even  more  valuable  to  her,  who  rejoices  in  seeing 
that  "  a  good  tree  continues  to  bear  good  fruit  ....  defies  the  insinuations  of 
some  third  party  ;  has  certain  witnesses  and  proofs  of  what  she  states,  but  will  be 
cautious  of  producing  them,  for  she  would  rather  be  silent  and  sin  in  the  good  than 
in  the  bad  cause;"  speaks  of  the  agent  of  this  mysterious  third  party  as  Vclasco, 
whom  she  is  indignant  at  having  to  receive  as  ambassador ;  ends  with  professions 
of  diligence  in  his  service. 

ELIZABETH  DE  VALOIS,  Queen  of  Spain,  daughter  of  Henry 
II.  and  Catherine  de'  Medici,  third  wife  of  Philip  II.  b.  1540,  d.  156S. 
A.  L.  s.  In  French,  with  superscription  to  Qiiccn  Catherine  her  mother. 
Without  date. 


ERA  SMUS—FA IRFA X.  1687 

There  is  in  the  collection  another  A.  L.  s.,  with  superscription  to  the  same, 
without  date. 

Both  are  interesting  as  specimens  of  the  secret  correspondence  and  intrigues 
between  the  mother  and  her  daughter. 

ERASMUS  ROTERODAMUS.  b.  1467.  d.  1536.  A.  L.  s.  A 
.short  letter  of  eight  h'nes  in  Latin.  Addressed  "  Ornatissimo  viro  D. 
Nicholao  Vesuuio  Epo  Lingonieii,  a  sacris."  Dated  10  cal.  Nouembr. 
1527. 

ESSEX,  Robert  Devereux,  Earl  OF.  b.  i567,d.  1601.  A.L.s. 
A  complimentary  letter  in  French  addressed  to  Henry  IV.  of  France. 
Endorsed,  "  Le  Comte  d'Essex,  Janvier,  1 595."    With  the  original  seal. 

ESSEX,  A.  Capel,  Earl  of.  b.  1635,  d.  1683.  A.  L.  s.  Ad- 
dressed to  the  Earl  of  Arlington.     Dublin  Castle,  March  17,  1673-4. 

In  1683  the  Earl  was  committed  to  the  Tower  for  his  complicity  in  Monmouth's 
conspiracy.     He  was  found  with  his  throat  cut  in  the  prison. 

ESTE,  Leonora  d'.     L.  .s.     Dated  Mar.  23,  1574. 

It  was  on  account  of  his  love  for  this  lady  that  Torquato  Tasso  was  imprisoned 
in  a  madhouse  for  seven  years. 

ESTREES,  Gabrielle  d'.  Mistress  of  Henri  IV.  b.  1571,  d. 
1599.  Deed  of  Sale,  signed  by  her  at  the  end,  and  three  times  in  the 
margins.     8  pages  folio.     1599. 

Relative  to  the  purchase  by  her  of  the  manor  and  lands  of  Saint  Jehan  des 
deux  Jumeaux  and  Montretout.  She  is  styled  in  the  deed  Duchesse  de  Beaufort, 
pairesse  de  France,  Marquise  de  Monceaux  et  dame  de  Crizy. 

ETTY,  William,  b.  1787,  d.  1849.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  M. 
L.  Watson,  Esq.,  containing  a  copy  of  the  register  of  the  birth  of 
Flaxman,  the  sculptor.    Dated  June  17,  1847. 

EVELYN,  John.  b.  1620,  d.  1706.  A.  L.  s.  For  Mr.  Cooper. 
Dated  21  June,  i/oi. 

"  Hearing  Sir  that  you  are  causing  the  tables  of  V'eines,  Arterys  &c.  which  I 
some  yeares  since  brought  out  of  Italy,  to  be  accurately  delineated  &  ingraven  as 
more  correct  than  any  yet  extant  or  to  be  found  among  the  Figures  in  Books  of 
Anatomy;  and  desirous  to  understand  how  they  came  to  my  hands,  I  send  you 
this  little  History  of  it  for  your  satisfaction."  The  letter  describes  how  he  first  saw 
these  tables  and  purchased  them  at  Padua,  that  he  lent  them  to  Dr.  Scarbrogh  at 
the  Colledge  [of  Physicians]  for  a  little  while,  "who  read  in  them,"  and  concludes, 
"his  Ma""  Charles  the  ll"""  hearing  of  them  was  pleased  to  come  and  see  them 
himselfe  with  great  satisfaction.  The  R:  Society  for  the  promotion  of  experimental 
and  natural  knowledge  being  a  little  after  instituted  by  that  Prince  and  meeting  at 
Gresham-Colledge  ;  I  made  a  present  of  the  Tables  to  the  Repositary." 

FAIRFAX,  Thomas,  Lord.  b.  1611,  d.  1671.  A.L.s.  Ad- 
dressed to  his  grandfather.     Hackney,  July  24. 


1 68  8  FAR  AD  A  Y—FR  ANKL  IN. 

FARADAY,  Michael,  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  John  Forster. 
Dated  8  May,  1845. 

FERDINAND  V.,  King  of  Spain,  b.  1442,  d.  1516.  And  ISABELLA, 
Queen  of  Spain,  b.  145 1,  d.  1506.  L.  s.  both  by  the  King  and  Queen, 
in  Spanish,  to  the  Duke  of  Milan.  Dated  Alcala  de  Henares,  Dec.  20, 
1497,  countersigned  Alma^a. 

Attesting  that  his  ambassador  at  Madrid  has  given  full  satisfaction  to  the 
sovereigns,  and  returns  as  bearer  of  communications  most  important  and  deserving 
of  credit. 

FIELDING,  H.  b.  1707,  d.  1754.  A.  L.  s.  To  Mr.  Nourse, 
Bookseller.     Dated  9  July,  1739. 

"  Disappointments  have  hitherto  prevented  my  paying  your  bill."  Desires  to 
have  a  house  at  a  rent  not  exceeding  ^40  a  year. 

Autograph  receipt  for  six  hundred  pounds  paid  to  him  by 

Andrew  Millar  forthe  copyright  of  "Tom  Jones."  Dated  June  11,  1748. 
This  is  accompanied  by  the  original  agreement  for  writing  the  same 
book,  signed  and  sealed  by  Fielding.     Dated  March  S,  1749. 

FLAXMAN,  John.  b.  1754,  d.  1826.  A.  L.  s.  To  Mr.  Huttner. 
Dated  29  Oct.,  1804. 

A  long  and  interesting  letter  about  his  designs  for  Homer's  Iliad. 

FOOTE,  Samuel,  b.  1721,  d.  1777.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
Garrick.     Dated  Dublin,  Dec.  31st. 

Had  it  not  been  for  Jewel  he  would  last  night  have  been  reduced  to  ashes  by 
reading  in  bed.  "  The  bed  was  burnt,  and  poor  Jewel's  hands  most  miserably 
scorched  ;  so  you  see,  my  dear  Sir,  no  man  can  foresee  the  great  ends  for  which 
he  was  born  ;  Macklin,  though  a  blockhead  in  his  manhood  and  youth,  turns 
out  a  wit  and  an  orator  on  the  brink  of  the  grave,  and  Foote,  never  very  re- 
markable for  his  personal  graces,  in  the  decline  of  his  life  was  very  near  becoming 
a  Toast."     Giving  news  of  several  people  in  Dublin,  &c. 

FRANCIS  I.,  King  of  France,  b.  1494,  d.  1547.  L.  s.  With 
superscription  to  the  Duchess  Dowager  of  Savoy,  in  favour  of  his 
uncle,  the  bastard  of  Savoy.  Amboise,  January  10,  1 5 17,  counter- 
signed Deneufville. 

FRANCIS  II.,  King  of  France,  b.  1544,  d.  1560.  A.  L.  s.  Super- 
scription to  "Mon  Oncle  le  Roy  de  Navarre,"  with  seal. 

He  has  seen  by  the  letters  of  his  uncle  how  the  latter  was  displeased  with  the 
calumnies  coming  from  England.  He  is  determined  to  send  to  Scotland  sufficient 
forces  to  crush  the  rebellion. 

FRANKLIN,  Benjamin,  b.  1706,  d.  1790.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed 
to  Dr.  Morgan.     Dated  Portsmouth,  16  Aug.,  1762. 

"  I  am  just  departing  for  America,  waiting  here  only  for  a  wind,"  Src. 


FREDERIC— GOLDSMITH.  1689 

FREDERIC  THE  GREAT,  King  of  Prussia,  b.  1712,  d.  1786. 
Verses  in  French,  entitled  "  La  Jouissance  de  Konisberg  a  Monsieur 
Algaroth."    Signed  "  Frederic,  ce  20  Juilet,  1740." 


GALILEO  DE'  GALILEL     b.  1564,  d.  1642.    A.  L.  s.    Dated 
from  Arcetri,  Feb.  21,  1653. 

An  extremely  interesting  letter  addressed  to  one  of  his  protectors,  in  which  he 
relates  the  persecutions  he  is  subjected  to  by  his  enemies,  who,  under  the  mask 
of  religion,  make  war  against  him,  besiege  him,  destroy  his  books,  and  forbid  him 
to  reprint  them. 

GARRICK,  David,    b.  1717,  d.  1779.   A.  L.s.   To  Mrs.  Abington, 
dated  Saturday,  9  o'clock. 

"  I  hope,  when  all  the  rest  have  agreed  to  do  their  parts,  that  you  will  not  be  want- 
ing this  evening.  I  beg  you,  for  your  own  sake,  my  sake  and  the  credit  of  the  house  : 
nay,  I'll  go  farther,  I  will  do  every  thing  1  can  for  you  in  my  power ;  do  be  in  a  good 
humour  and  meet  me  at  the  house  this  morning." 

GENLIS,  Madame  de.  b.  1746,  d.  1830.  A  tale,  entitled  "  Les 
Souvenirs  de  Felicie  L  .  .  .  .",  occupying  thirteen  pages. 

A.  L.    Addressed,  "  A  Monsieur  de  S'.  Lambert."    Without 


signature. 

GIBBON,  Edward,    b.  1737,  d.  1794.    A.  L.  s.    Dated  June  24, 

1793- 

Expresses  his  inability  to  serve  the  person  to  whom  the  letter  is  addressed 
[Gillies]  in  his  legitimate  claim  to  the  title  or  office  of  historiographer  of  his  native 
country,  and  strongly  declares  his  contempt  for  the  then  wild  and  mischievous 
system  of  democracy. 

GOETHE,  J.  W.  VON.  b.  1749,  d.  1832.  A.  L.  s.  To  Professor 
Oeser,  dated  "Frankfurt,  14  Feb.,  1769." 

A  letter  written  after  he  had  been  obliged,  through  serious  illness,  to  leave  the 
University  of  Leipsic,  and  had  gone  home  to  await  his  recovery.  Discusses  in  a 
playful  manner  the  chances  of  his  returning  to  Leipsic,  &c. 

Letters  written  by  Goethe  in  his  youth  are  excessively  scarce.  This  one  has 
never  been  printed. 

GOLDONI,  Carlo,  b.  1707,  d.  1793.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  10  October, 
1761. 

GOLDSMITH,  O.  b.  172S,  d.  1774.  A.  L.  s.  To  Sir  J.  Reynolds. 
Dated  Paris,  29  July. 

A  long  and  curious  letter,  giving  a  doleful  account  of  his  travels  on  the  conti- 


1690  GRAY— HENRY   VII. 

nent ;  he  is  anxious  to  return,  and  begs  for  news  from  home  ;  wishes  to  hear  from 
Sir  Joshua  himself,  Johnson,  Burke,  Dyer,  Chamier,  and  every  one  of  the  Club  ; 
also  about  Miss  Reynolds,  Bickerstaff,  &c. 

GRAY,  Thomas,  b.  1716,  d.  1771.  A.  L.  s.  To  Mr.  Brown,  Pre- 
sident of  Pembroke  Hall,  Cambridge.    Oct.  25,  1760. 

"  The  King  is  dead  ;  he  rose  this  morning  about  six  (his  usual  early  hour),  in 
perfect  health,  and  had  his  chocolate.  Between  seven  and  eight,  an  unaccountable 
noise  was  heard  in  his  chamber,  they  ran  in,  and  found  him  lying  on  the  floor.  He 
was  directly  blooded,  and  a  few  drops  came  from  him,  but  he  instantly  expired. 
This  event  happens  at  an  unlucky  time,  but,  I  should  think,  will  make  little  altera- 
tion in  publick  matters." 

With  Gray's  usual  signature,  "  Yours,  T.  G." 

GUIDO  RENI.  b.  1575,  d.  1642.  A.  L.  s.  Bologna,  Aug.  23, 
1625. 

Relative  to  a  picture  in  Rome  over  the  Shrine  of  the  Pilgrims'  Church  of  the 
Trinity,  at  Ponte  Sisto. 

GUSTAVUS  ADOLPHUS,  King  of  Sweden,  b.  1594,  killed  at 
Lutzen,  1633.  L.  s.,  with  seal  and  superscription,  to  Count  Friedrich 
Von  Solms.    Thierhaupten,  April  8,  1632. 

Chiefly  relative  to  the  blockade  of  Wurzburg,  and  the  arrival  of  the  King 
at  Ulm. 

GWYN,  EleanOUR.  Initials,  by  way  of  receipt,  affixed  to  an 
order  for  the  payment  to  her  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  "towards 
the  support  of  herselfe  and  Charles  Earle  of  Burford,  and  is  for  one 
quarter  of  a  yeare."     Dated  Jany.  12,  1681. 


HALLAM,  Henry,  b.  1781,  d.  1853.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
H.  T.  Buckle.    Invitation  to  dinner.    Dated  Mar.  15,  1850. 

HAMPDEN,  John.  b.  1594,  d.  1643.  Signature  to  an  assessment 
of  taxation  in  the  County  of  Bucks.    Dated  Sep.  20,  1628. 

HAYDN,  Joseph,  b.  1732,  d.  1809.  A.  L.  s.,  in  Italian.  To 
Madame  Polzelli,  Bologna.    Dated  London,  June  13,  1792. 

HENRY  VII.,  King  of  England,  b.  1456,  d.  1509.  L.  s.  To 
Louis  XII.  of  France.  "  Escript  en  nre.  manoir  de  Waynstede,  le  XIP 
jour  daoust  Ian  XV  &  six." 

A  letter  of  compliment,  acknowledging  letters  received  from  Louis  by  his  "  valet 
de  chambre  Marc  de  Villebresme," and  assuring  Louis  "que  nous  desirons  voullons 
et  entendons  demourcr  &  continuer  tousjours  vre.  bon  cousin,  loyal  frcre,  bon  con- 
federe  et  allie." 


HENRY— IRETON.  1691 

HENRY,  Prince  of  Walks,  son  of  James  I.  b.  1593,  d.  1612, 
A.  L.  s.,  in  Frencli.  To  the  Dauphin,  afterwards  Louis  XIll.  Rich- 
mond, 25  October,  1605. 

Sending  him  "  une  meute  de  petits  chiens,"  to  show  him  his  desire  Ihat  both 
should  follow  in  the  steps  of  the  Kings,  their  fathers  ;  "  come  en  entiere  et  fenue 
amitie,  aussi  en  ceste  sorte  d'honneste  &  louable  recreation." 

HENRY  III.,  King  of  France,  b.  155 1,  assassinated  1589.  A.L.s. 
7  full  pages  folio.  To  Nicolas  de  Neufville,  Seigneur  de  Villeroy, 
Secretary  of  State  under  Charles  IX.,  Henry  III.,  Henry  IV.,  and 
Louis  XIII. 

A  very  import.ant  historical  letter,  conveying  the  instructions  of  the  King  on 
State  affairs. 

HENRY  IV.,  King  of  France,  b.  1553,  d.  1610.  A.  L.  s.  Ad- 
dressed to  "Mon  Cousyne,  Mens'',  le  Vycomte  de  Turenne." 

He  has  heard  from  Boyrnart  of  the  division  between  him  and  Marsolan.  It 
seems  to  him  it  would  be  better  to  put  Boyrnart  in  Sainte  Baseylle  with  thirty  men 
for  the  defence  of  this  place,  which  is  threatened,  and  in  danger  on  account  of  the 
disaffection  of  the  inhabitants.  The  company  of  De  Vivans  is  to  be  maintained 
with  the  contributions  of  the  Garonne. 

HENRIETTA  MARIA,  Queen  of  Charles  I.  b.  1609,  d.  1669. 
A.  L.  s.  I  page  folio.  Addressed  "  a  Monsieur  mon  frere.  Monsieur  le 
due  d'Orleans."  Complimentary  on  his  marriage.    With  seals  and  floss 

silk. 

HOGARTH,  W.  b.  1697,  d.  1764.  A.L.s.  Addressed  "A  Monsieur 
Reiftstein,  Governeur  de  Pages."    London,  April  18,  1757. 

Answer  to  a  letter  from  J.  F.  Reiffstein,  accepting  an  invitation  to  become  a 
member  of  the  Imperial  Academy  of  Augsburg  for  the  study  and  improvement  of 
Arts  and  Letters.  Reiffstein's  letter  is  also  in  the  collection.  At  the  end  of  it  he 
says,  "  My  address  is  Governour  of  the  Pages." 

HUMBOLDT.  Alex.  von.  b.  1769,  d.  1S59.  A.  L.  s.  Dated 
Paris,  17  Sept.,  1838. 

HUME,  David,  b.  171 1,  d.  1776.  A.L.s.  London,  25  May, 
1767. 

A  long  and  interesting  letter  to  a  friend  in  Paris. 

"  Mr.  Turgot  expresses  his  surprise  that  I  should  have  consented  to  enter  into 
public  affairs,  while  he  wishes  to  retire  from  them.  It  will  never  be  in  my  purpose, 
and,  I  believe,  still  less  in  my  power,  to  enter  into  the  prejudices  entertained  by  the 
vulgar  part  of  my  countrymen,  and  to  feel  an  antipathy  against  the  French  nation. 
I  know  them  too  well  to  be  capable  of  such  a  sentiment.  Happily  both  nations  are 
at  present  seriously  disposed  to  cultivate  peace  with  each  other,"  &c.  &c. 

IRETON,  Henry.  Parliamentary  Commander  and  Son-in-law 
of  Oliver  Cromwell,     b.  about  1610,  d.  1651.     Autograph  signature 


1692  JAMES  II.~KATHERINE. 

to  a  document  for  the  payment  of  the  forces   in    Ireland.     Dated 
Apl.  1651. 

JAMES  II.,  King  of  England,  b.  1633,  d.  1701.  Signature  to 
a  certificate  for  officer's  pay.  Among  those  who  sign  as  receiving  their 
pay  is  John  Churchill,  afterwards  Duke  of  Marlborough. 

JOHNSON,  Dr.  Samuel,  b.  1709,  d.  1784.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed 
to  David  Garrick,  requesting  places  to  be  reserved  for  "any  night  on 
which  you  intend  to  appear,  before  Friday." 

A.  L.  s.    To  the  Rev.  Doctor  Taylor  in  Ashbourne.    London, 

Dec.  22,  1774. 

Talks  about  Charles  Congreve,  "  the  greatest  pleasure  that  I  have  had  from  him 
is  to  find  him  firm  and  orthodox  ;  yet  he  consorts  with  Wesley." 

A.  L.  s.    To  Mr.  Ryland.    Dated  Sept.  21,  1776. 

"  I  have  procured  this  play  to  be  read  by  Mrs.  Thrale,  who  declares  that  no  play 
was  ever  more  nicely  pruned  from  the  objection  of  indelicacy.  If  it  can  be  got  upon 
the  stage,  it  will,  I  think,  succeed,"  &c. 

A.  L.  s.    Addressed  to  the  Rev.  Dr.  Taylor.    Dated  June  23, 

1784. 

Speaks  of  his  illness  and  various  matters.  "  Boswell  has  a  great  mind  to  draw 
me  to  Lichfield,  and  as  I  love  to  travel  with  him,  I  have  a  mind  to  be  drawn,"  and 
other  observations  of  interest. 

JOSEPHINE,  Empress  of  the  French,  b.  1763,  d.  1814.  Signa- 
ture to  a  note.    Dated,  "  Malmaison,  le  5  Mai,  18 13." 

KATHERINE  OF  ARRAGON,  Queen  of  Henry  VIII.  b. 
1485, d.  1536.  A.L.s.  Addressed  to  her  uncle,  the  Emperor  Charles  V. 

As  this  letter  is  believed  to  be  unpublished,  both  the  original  and  a  translation 
are  given  at  full : — 

"  Muy  alto  y  muy  poderoso  sefior  poco  a  que  escrevy  a  vuestra  magestad  dycyendo 
my  parecer  sobre  los  artyculos  quel  enbaxador  del  Rey  my  sefior  y  marydo  le  pre- 
scnto  y  despues  el  enbaxador  que  aquy  esta  me  mostro  otros  capytulos  que  su 
sanctydad  por  su  nuncyo  envyo  a  vuestra  alteza  sobre  la  mysma  materya  a  los 
quales  tan  byen  respondy  como  me  parecya  convycnc  al  byen  desta  causa  excluyendo 
la  dylacyon  que  los  dychos  capytulos  trayan  consygo  como  creo  el  dycho  enbaxador 
abra  echo  saber  a  vuestra  magestad,  y  en  verdad  con  ver  lo  que  pasa  cerca  la  dycha 
dylacyon  y  sentyr  que  no  son  vastantes  las  ofensas  cada  dya  aquy  yntentan  y  se  ha- 
zen  a  dyos  ny  mys  qucxas  contynuas  ny  el  poder  de  vuestra  alteza  para  mover  a  su 
sanctydad  a  azer  Justycya  que  no  le  demando  otra  cosa  estava  easy  determynada  de 
nole  dar  mas  pcna  con  mys  cartas  syno  encomendarsolo  a  dyos  la  declaracyon  de 
la  verdad  de  my  Justycya  y  tomar  esto  por  rtmcdyo  de  mys  travajos  y  consuelo  de 
my  vyda,  mas  parecyome  que  azyendo  asy  tentaryaa  dyos  especyahiiente  vyenJo  cl 
pecado  en  que  esta  el  Rey  my  sefior  acarrea  otros  pecados  cada  ora  como  parcce  : 
por  lo  que  nuevamcnte  an  tentado  syn  temor  dc  dyos  y  gran  escandalo  de  toda  la 


KATHERINE    OF   A  R  RAG  ON.  1693 

christiandad  contra  la  autorydad  de  la  sede  apostolyca  como  por  otras  pcrsonas 
sabra  largamente  me  parecyo  devya  tornar  a  mys  ynportunacyoncs  pues  no  entycndo 
en  otracosasyno  en  salvarmy  amymia'  en  este  case  y  certyfycara  vuestra  magestad 
no  quyesera  ^  por  cosa  deste  mundo  no  aver  echo  saber  a  su  sanctydad  y  a  vuestra 
magestad  y  a  todas  los  personas  que  me  parecyan  ser  partes  para  remedyar  los 
danos  que  veo  los  quales  aunque  no  aya  sido  eleyda,'  los  e  tenydo  antes  mis 
ojos  mas  con  azer  lo  que  podya  queda  my  concyencya  con  algun  descanso  con  todo 
el  mal  exemplo  y  quanto  mas  azen  y  dan  a  entender  que  aran  sepa  vuestra  mages- 
tad que  el  Remedyo  esta  en  su  sanctydad  en  azer  determynacyon  en  la  causa  y  fyn 
y  no  afloxar  en  la  prosecucyon  della  conforme  aloquc  la  Justycya  rcquicre  dandoa 
entender  a  los  que  en  ello  le  ablaran  ser  esta  su  determynada  voluntad  y  pucs  esto 
es  el  remedyo  por  amor  de  la  pasyon  de  dyos  suplyco  a  vuestra  magestad  quyera 
emplearse  en  ello  como  toda  la  chrystyandad  del  espera  como  pryncype  y  protetor 
de  nuestra  fe  es  oblygado  syn  tener  respecto  syno  solo  al  servycyo  de  dyos  y  al  so- 
syego  de  toda  la  crystyandad  que  los  respectos  myos  y  de  my  hija  cesan  sy  se  en- 
tendyesen  por  otra  vya  syno  por  cunplyr  una  de  las  obras  de  myserycordya  que  es 
delybrar  nos  de  la  prcsyon  en  que  estamos  como  las  mas  myserables  personas  del 
mundo,  las  trybulacyones  que  pasamos  yo  y  my  hija  asy  en  el  tratamyento  de  nu- 
estra vyda  y  personas  como  en  los  sobresaltos  y  afrentas  que  cada  dya  nos  da  el 
consejo  del  Rey  my  senor,  no  ay  necesydad  de  escrevyr  por  ser  a  todos  notoryos 
nuestros  trabajos  y  syno  nos  esforgasemos  en  dyos  por  ser  lo  que  sufremos  por  el  y 
el  por  su  myserycordya  no  nos  ayudase  la  carga  serya  ynconportable  mas  yo  pen- 
sando  ser  en  este  mundo  my  purgatorio  y  ella  por  no  ofender  a  dyos  hazyendo  lo 
que  podemos  en  defensa  de  nuestra  Justycya  y  de  my  sea  vuestra  alteza  cyerto  que 
no  faltare  asta  moryr  por  que  de  otra  manera  condenarya  my  anyma,  y  espero  en 
dyos  lo  mysmo  ara  ella  como  buena  hija  lo  demas  sabra  vuestra  magestad  de  suen- 
baxador  el  qual  aun  pyenso  no  le  podra  azer  saber  el  mal  que  ay  sobre  todo  su- 
plyco a  vuestra  alteza  la  brevedad  y  acceleracyon  de  la  causa  porque  perder  agora 
un  dya  es  mas  que  asta  agora  un  aiio  como  por  la  carta  pasada  escrevya  a  vuestra 
magestad  a  la  qual  me  remyto,  estando  escryvyendo  esta  me  a  ynbyado  a  dezyr  su 
enbaxador  le  parece  no  convenyr  envyar  persona  a  este  parlamente  y  tanbyen  como 
a  envyado  persona  expresa  a  su  santydad  a  pedyr  con  toda  ynsta[n]cya  y  brevedad 
la  sentencya  dyfynyty\'a  lo  prymero  me  parece  ser  byen  echo  porque  syno  vynyese 
la  dycha  persona  con  la  determynacyon  y  fyn  de  la  causa  aprovechara  muy  poco 
sygun  las  cosas  estan  aquy  y  por  el  onbre  que  a  envyado  beso  las  manos  a  vuestra 
magestad  porque  en  berdad  allende  del  bien  espero  ara  su  yda  es  necesaryo  vuestra 
alteza  se  mueslre  de  otra  manera  que  asta  agora  asy  para  cunplyr  con  este  reyno  el 
qual  pyensa  aver  venydo  esta  causa  a  estos  termynos  por  no  se  aver  mostrado  en 
ella  como  devyera  ny  yo  tanpoco  no  dexare  de  tener  algun  escrupulo  de  pensar 
pudyera  azer  mas  especyalmente  avyendo  abydo  tan  buena  dyspusycyon  para  que  su 
sanctydad  yzyese  Justycya  con  la  qual  todo  se  acabara  quanto  a  este  punto  la  con- 
cencya  de  cada  uno  sera  el  Juez  y  dyos  que  sabe  la  verdad  vasta  para  my  que  tengo 
romo  dygo  descargada  la  mya  a  vuestra  magestad  humylmente  suplyco  sy  por  la- 
lymosna  que  comygo  en  esto  a  echo  y  con  my  hija  sy  la  caridad  a  sydo  un  poco 
frya  que  se  enmyende  que  aunque  no  fuesemos  de  su  sangre  syno  solamente  por 
ayudar  a  personas  tan  opresas  y  en  tanta  necesydad  es  oblygado  vuestra  magestad 
de  ayudarnos  allevar  la  cruz  que  tenemos  acuestas  que  es  por  la  verdad  por  que  de 
otra  manera  no  se  espera  syno  que  por  la  multyplycacyon  de  tan  graves  pecados  a 
de  venyr  gravyssymo  castygo  el*  qual  plega  a  nuestro  senor  guardar  a  vuestra  ma- 
gestad y  darle  tanta  vyda  a  acrecentar  a  su  estado  como  yo  deseo  suplycando  a 

'  anyma.  ^  quyesera  for  quisicra.  '  leyda  or  esleyda  ? 

*  Sif  del,  or  de  el. 

9U 


i694  KATHERINE    OF   ARRAGON. 

vuestra  magestad  queperdonemys  borrones  porque  asy  como  my  corazon  esta  ynquy  eto 
ryge  my  mano  a  que  no  escryva  my  carta  como  devya.  En  bucdon  a  viij  de 
Ebrero. 

"  humyl  tya  de  vuestra  magestad 

"  Katherina." 
Addressed: — "  Al  muy  alto  y  muy  poderoso  sefior 
el  Emperador  y  rey  my  sobr>'[no]." 

Endorsed: — "  A  su  magestad 

De  la  reyna  de  Inglaterra,  viij  de 
Ebrero,  1534." 

Translation. 

"  Most  high  and  most  powerful  Lord :  it  is  but  a  little  time  since  I  wrote  to  your 
Majesty  stating  my  opinion  upon  the  articles  which  the  ambassador  of  the  king,  my 
Lord  and  husband,  presented  to  Your  Majesty;  after  which  the  ambassador,'  who 
resides  here,  showed  to  me  other  articles,  which  His  Holiness  sent,  by  his  nuncio, 
to  Your  Highness  upon  the  same  affair,  to  which  I  replied  as  well  as  appeared  to  me 
would  suit  the  good  of  this  [my]  cause,  avoiding  the  delay  which  the  said  articles 
necessarily  bring  with  them,  as  I  believe  the  said  ambassador  will  [by  this  time]  have 
notified  to  Your  Majesty.  And,  of  a  truth,  considering  what  has,  and  is  taking  place 
respecting  the  said  delay,  and  perceiving  that  neither  the  daily  offences  made  to  God 
here — which  go  on  on  the  increase — nor  my  own  continual  complaints,  nor  the 
power  of  Your  Highness,  are  sufficient  to  induce  His  Holiness  to  do  [me]  justice — • 
for  I  ask  nothing  else  of  him — I  was  almost  determined  not  to  trouble  Your  Majesty 
any  more  with  my  letters,  but  entrust  the  declaration  of  the  truth  of  my  Justice  to 
God,  and  accept  this  [state  of  things]  as  a  remedy  for  my  troubles  and  a  consola- 
tion for  my  hfe.  Yet  it  seemed  to  me  as  if  in  so  doing  I  should  be  tempting  God, 
especially  when  I  see  that  the  sin,  wherein  the  king,  my  Lord,  lives,  brings  about 
other  sins  every  hour,  as  it  would  appear  from  the  attempt  they  have  lately  made, 
without  fear  of  God,  and  to  the  great  scandal  of  all  Christendom,  against  the  autho- 
rity of  the  Holy  See,  as  Your  Majesty  must  have  heard  at  length  from  other  persons. 
I  think  therefore  that  I  ought  to  return  to  my  own  importunities,  for  I  do  not  occupy 
myself  in  any  other  thing  except  in  saving  my  soul  in  this  business,  and  certifying 
Your  Highness  that  I  would  not,  for  any  thing  in  this  world,  have  failed  to  acquaint 
His  Holiness,  and  your  Majesty,  and  all  persons,  capable  of  applying  a  remedy  to 
the  evils,  which  I  am  witnessing,  and  which,  though  ignorant  in  these  matters,  I 
have  always  had  before  my  eyes.  Having,  however,  done  what  I  could,  my  con- 
science remains  with  some  consolation  in  spite  of  all  the  bad  example  [they  give], 
and  all  the  rest  that  they  do  and  signify  that  they  will  do.  Your  Majesty  must  know 
that  the  remedy  lies  with  HisHohnessin  putting  a  termination  and  end  to  this  affair, 
and  not  yielding  in  the  prosecution  of  it,  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of 
Justice,  telling  those  who  converse  with  him  upon  the  matter  that  this  is  his  volun- 
tary determination.  Such  being  the  only  remedy,  for  the  love  of  the  Passion  of 
God  I  entreat  Your  Majesty  to  be  pleased  to  take  action  in  it,  for  all  Christendom 
awaits  it,  and  you  are  obliged  as  a  Christian  prince  and  protector  of  our  faith, 
to  take  the  matter  in  hand  without  any  other  consideration  but  that  of  God's 
service  and  the  tranquillity  of  all  Christendom.  All  other  considerations,  even  that 
of  my  own  person  and  my  daughter's,  ought  to  be  put  aside,  unless  it  were  for  the 
sake  of  your  accomplishing  such  an  act  of  mercy,  as  to  deliver  us  from  the  prison 
in  which  we  are,  like  the  the  most  miserable  creatures  in  the  world.  Indeed,  there 
is  no  need  for  my  relating  to  Your  Highness  the  sufferings  that  1  and  my  daughter 

'  Eustace  Chapuys,  Imperial  ambassador  in  London  since  1529. 


KATHERINE    OF   ARRAGON.  1695 

undergo,  as  well  in  the  treatment  of  our  lives,  ns  in  the  surprises  and  affronts  whirh 
every  day  the  King's  Council  puts  upon  us,  for  our  troubles  are  matters  of  universal 
notoriety;  and,  indeed,  if  we  did  not  fortify  ourselves  with  God's  help,  and  by  look- 
ing upon  our  sufferings  as  undergone  for  His  sake  ;  if  the  all  Merciful  did  not  help 
us  throughout,  the  burden  would  be  insupportable.  However,  as  I  consider  that  my 
purgatory  and  my  daughter's  is  in  this  world,  we  are  both  doing  what  we  can  in  de- 
fence of  our  rights.  As  to  me.  Your  Highness  may  be  sure  that  I  shall  not  fail  [in 
this  task]  till  death,  as  otherwise  I  should  imperil  my  soul,  and  I  hope  to  God  the 
Princess  will  do  the  same,  as  a  good  daughter  should  do.  Further  matters  "i'our 
Majesty  shall  know  from  your  ambassador,  and  yet  I  think  he  will  be  unable  to  ac- 
quaint you  with  the  whole  of  the  mischief  that  is  taking  place  [here].  Above  all  I 
beseech  of  Your  Highness  brevity  and  despatch  in  the  affair,  for  to  lose  a  day  at 
this  juncture  is  worse  than  to  have  lost  hitherto  a  year,  as  I  have  [already]  signified 
to  Your  Majesty  in  my  last  letter,  to  which  I  refer  myself.  Just  as  I  was  writing 
this  Your  Majesty's  ambassador  [Chapuys]  sent  to  tell  me  that  in  his  opinion  it  is 
not  advisable  to  send  any  one  to  this  parliament  ;  and  also  how  he  has  sent  a  special 
messenger  to  His  Holiness  to  beg  with  all  urgency  and  brevity  for  a  definitive  sen- 
tence. Of  the  first  measure  [proposed  by  the  ambassador]  I  fully  approve,  for  un- 
less the  messenger  could  return  with  the  determination  and  end  of  the  affair,  it  would 
be  of  very  little  use,  considering  the  present  state  of  things  here.  With  regard  to  the 
man  whom  Your  Majesty  has  sent  I  kiss  the  hands  of  Your  Majesty,  for  of  a  truth, 
besides  the  good  which  his  coming  is  likely  to  do,  it  is  high  time  for  Your  Highness 
to  show  yourself  in  other  bearing  than  you  have  hitherto  shown  yourself,  if  it  were 
only  to  stand  on  good  terms  with  the  inhabitants  of  this  kingdom,  who  think  that  the 
affair  has  come  to  this  pass  through  your  Majesty  not  having  shown  yourself  as  you 
should  have  done.  For  my  own  part  I  entertain  some  scruples  that  Your  Highness 
might  have  done  better,  especially  since  there  has  been  a  good  opportunity  towards 
persuading  His  Holiness  to  do  [me]  Justice,  wherewith  the  whole  might  have  been 
brought  to  an  end.  However,  with  regard  to  this  point  each  one's  conscience  shall 
be  his  Judge,  and  God,  who  knows  the  truth,  is  enough  for  me  who  have,  as  I  de- 
clare, fully  disburdened  mine.  I  humbly  beseech  your  Majesty,  if  the  charity  hitherto 
shown  to  me  and  to  my  daughter  has  been  somewhat  cold  that  it  may  be  the  warmer 
in  future,  for  even  were  we  not  both  united  in  blood  and  relationship  to  each  other, 
it  would  be  Your  Majesty's  duty  to  help  persons  so  much  oppressed  and  in  such 
necessity  [as  we  are].  Your  Majesty  indeed  is  bound  to  help  us  to  bear  the  cross 
which  we  have  upon  our  shoulders  for  the  sake  of  truth,  otherwise  there  is  no  hope 
in  this  world,  for  the  perpetration  of  such  grave  and  multifarious  sins  is  sure  to  bring 
a  very  severe  punishment,  from  which  I  trust  God  will  protect  Your  Majesty,  and 
give  you  such  a  life  and  increase  of  estate  as  1  desire  you  should  have,  beseeching 
your  Majesty  to  forgive  my  scribbling,  for  as  my  heart  is  troubled  so  is  my  hand  stiff, 
and  1  have  not  written  [this]  my  letter  as  I  ought  to  have  done.  At  Buxton  (?)  the 
viij  of  February. 

"  Your  Majesty's  humble  aunt 

"  Katherin.\." 

Addressed :—"  To  the  most  High  and  powerful  lord,  the  Emperor  and  King  my 
nephew." 

Endorsed:—"  To  His  Majesty.    From  the  Queen  of  England,  8  Feb.,  1534-" 

KATHERINE  PARR,  Queen  of  Henry  VHI.  b.  1513,  d.  1548. 
Letter  signed  "  Kateryn  the  quene."  Addressed  to  her  brother  on  the 
occasion  of  her  marriage  to  the  King. 


1696  KA  UFFMA  N~L  A  MBER  T. 

"  Ryght  der  and  welbiloued  brother  we  grete  youe  wel  Lating  youe  wit  that 
when  it  hath  pleased  Almighty  god  of  his  goodnes  to  inclyne  the  Kings  Mat',  in  suche 
wise  towards  me  as  it  hathe  pleased  his  highnes  to  take  me  of  all  others  most  un- 
worthie  to  his  wief  whiche  is  as  of  reason  it  ought  to  be  the  greatest  Joye  and  com- 
fort that  could  happen  to  me  in  this  world.  To  th'intent  yo'  being  my  natural 
brother  may  reioyse  w  me  in  the  goodnes  of  god  and  of  his  Maf.  as  the  person  who 
by  nature  hath  most  cause  of  the  same  I  thought  mete  to  give  you  this  advertise- 
ment and  to  require  you  to  let  me  som  t)Tne  here  of  your  healthe  as  freendly  as  ye 
wold  have  doon  if  god  &  his  Maf.  had  not  called  me  to  this  honor,  which  I  assure 
you  shal  be  moch  to  my  comfort. 

"  Given  at  my  lords  manor  of  Otelands  the  xx""  of  July  the  xxxv""  year  of  his 
Mat",  most  noble  reign." 

Addressed : — "  To  our  right  der  and  entirely  beloved  Brother  the  Lord  Parre  Lord 
Warden  of  the  Marches." 

KAUFFMAN,  Angelica,  b.  1740,  d.  1808.  A.  L.  s.  Dated 
Jany.  12,  1805. 

KEATS,  JOHX.  b.  1796,  d.  1821.  A.  L.  s.  To  John  Taylor,  Esq., 
Fleet  Street.     Dated  Teignmouth,  Friday  (27  April,  1821). 

An  interesting  letter  about  the  proof  sheets  of  "  Endymion,"  and  adding  a  long 
list  of  "  Errata." 

KINGSLEY,  Charles.  A.  L.  s.  A  long  and  interesting  letter. 
Dated  "Good  Friday,"  1858. 

KOSSUTH,  Louis.  A.  L.  s.  Written  in  English.  In  answer  to 
an  inquir}'-  about  the  death  of  M.  Desnaij,  the  Hungarian  sculptor. 

LAFAYETTE,  G.  M.,  Marquis  de.  b.  1757,  d.  1834.  A.  L.  s. 
Dated  Paris,  7  Juillet,  1818.  ".  .  .  je  suis  venu  pour  le  diner  Americain, 
Anniversaire  de  I'lndependance.  .  .  ." 

LA  FONTAINE,  Jean  de.  b.  162 1,  d.  1695.  Two  Aut.  Receipts,  s. 
Dated  22  Oct.  1660. 

LALANDE,  Jos.  Jer.  Lefran^ais  de.  b.  1732,  d.  1807.  Autogr. 
critical  essay  on  Robinet,  Dictionnaire  universel  des  Sciences  morales, 
with  signature. 

LAMB,  Charles,  b.  1775,  d.  1834.  Aut.  Essay,  "Grace  before 
Meat."  7  pages  folio.  With  superscription  to  Messrs.  Taylor  and 
Hessey,  Fleet  Street. 

LAMBERT,  COL.  John,  the  Parliamentary  General,  b.  about  1620, 
d.  1690.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Sir  Thomas  Fairfax,  General  of  the 
Northern  Army.     Dated  Bradford,  March  6,  1643. 

Relating  particulars  of  the  attack  upon  the  Royalists  at  Hunslett,  names  of  the 
prisoners,  iS:c. 


LAND  SEER— MA  RAT.  1697 

LANDSEER,  Sir  Edwin,  b.  1802,  d.  1873.  A.  L.  Invitation 
to  Sir  W.  Boxall  to  dine  with  hiin.    Signed  with  his  monogram. 

LAWRENCE,  Sir  Thomas,  b.  1769,  d.  1830.  A.L.s.  Addressed 
to  Sir  D.  Wilkic.    Dated  Russell  Sq".  Aug.  12,  1820. 

LEWES,  G.  H.    A.  L.  s.    Addressed  to  Mrs.  Huth. 

LEYCESTER,  Robert  Dudley,  Earl  of.  b.  1532,  d.  1588. 
A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  the  Lord  Treasurer  and  Sir  Walter  Mildmay. 
Dated  at  the  Court,  Nov.  28,  1576. 

Requiring  five  thousand  pounds  beforehand,  while  his  assurances  are  being  pre- 
pared. 

LOCKE,  John.  b.  1632,  d.  1704.  A.  L.  s.  To  Anthony  Collins, 
Esq.     Dated  Gates,  li  Aug.,  1704. 

LORENZO  DE  MEDICI,  b.  1448,  d.  1492.  A.  L.  s.  in  Latin. 
Addressed  to  Ludovico  de  Gonzaga.  Dated  March  8,  1469,  with 
seal. 

LOUIS  XIV.,  K.  of  France,  b.  1638,  d.  1715.  Instructions  on  the 
conduct  of  the  War,  addressed  to  Marshal  Catinat.  Dated  August  12, 
1692.  At  the  end  are  five  lines  in  the  King's  autograph  with  his  sig- 
nature. 

LUTHER,  Martin,  b.  1483,  d.  1546.  A.  L.  s.  With  super- 
scription to  John  Duke  of  Saxony.  Dated  at  Wittemberg,  on  the 
Thursday  after  St.  Margaret,  1525  ;  with  transcript  and  translation. 

An  interesting  letter  in  German,  on  ecclesiastical  matters,  principally  with  refe- 
rence to  the  appointment  of  George  Spalatinus  to  the  Pastoral  Office  at  Alden- 
burg. 

MACHIAVELLI,  NicoLO.  b.  1469,  d.  1527.  A.  L.  s.  In 
Italian.  Addressed  to  the  Commissary  Tebalducci.  Dated  Florence, 
I  June,  1503. 

MAINTENON,  Fran(;oise  d'Aubigne,  Marquise  de.  B.  1635, 
d.  1 7 19.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  "  Versailles  ce  27  Janvier,"  1688.  Addressed 
"a  Monsieur  d'Hozier  Genealogiste  de  la  Maison  du  Roy." 

"  Les  papiers  que  Mons.  de  la  Maisonfort  vous  a  portcs  sent  seulement  pour 
vous  faire  voir  si  Mile,  de  Belle  est  noble,  je  ne  veu  plus  recevoir  de  dames  de  St. 
Louis  qui  ne  le  soient,  mais  je  ne  pretens  point  quelles  faient  de  preuves,  et  il  me 
suffira  quand  je  ne  connoitray  pas  leur  naissance  que  vous  me  disres,  ce  qui  en  sera 
commences  par  Mile,  de  la  Tour  de  Celle." 

MARAT,  Jean  Paul.  b.  1744,  d.  1793.  Letter  of  nine  lines. 
Addressed  to  M.  Lablee.  Without  signature.  Dated  "  Ce  dimanche, 
17  Janvier."     [1790.] 


1698        MARIE    DE    MEDICIS—MARY    TUDOR. 

MARIE  DE  MEDICIS,  Queen  of  France,  second  wife  of  Henri 
IV.  b.  1573,  d.  1642.  A.  L.  s.  Superscription,  "Au  Roy  Mon- 
sieur men  fils."    With  seals  and  silk  attached. 

An  affectionate  letter,  thanking  him  for  his  assurance  of  his  belief  in  her  inno- 
cence of  false  reports  made  against  her  as  to  practices  against  the  interests  of 
his  service — begging  him  to  clear  up  the  affair  by  some  demonstration  so  public 
as  to  manifest  the  advantage  the  truth  gives  her  to  all  the  world  as  much  as  to 
himself — complains  of  her  absence  from  him,  and  asks  earnestly  for  permission  to 
return. 

There  is  in  the  collection  another  letter,  the  signature  only  being  autograph, 
dated  "A  Compiegne  le  x<'  May  1624." 

MARLBOROUGH,  John,  Duke  of.  b.  1650,  d.  1716.  A.  L.  s. 
Dated  from  the  Camp  near  Maestricht. 

A  long  letter  on  military  exploits  and  battles  in  which  he  was  then  engaged,  in 
full  hope  of  success. 

MARLBOROUGH,  S.,  Duchess  OF.  b.  1660,  d.  1744.  L.s.  Ad- 
dressed to  Mr.  Cooke,  April  6,  1742. 

Speaks  of  having  vindicated  herself  by  incontestable  proof  from  the  vile  asper- 
sions thrown  upon  her  by  the  rage  of  parties.  "  This  I  have  done  very  clearly,  and 
I  don't  care  what  Fools  or  Mad  People  say  of  me,  which  will  always  be  a  great 
majority.  And  I  am  as  little  concerned  at  what  Kings  may  write — For  I  am  very 
sure  that  I  shall  never  more  have  any  thing  to  do  with  Kings  or  Ministers,  for  which 
I  thank  God." 

MARY  QUEEN  OF  SCOTS,  b.  1542,  d.  1587.  A.  L.  s.  Ad- 
dressed, "A  Monsieur  de  Chasteauneuf  Ambassadeur  du  Roy  tres 
Chrestien  Monsieur  mon  beau  frere." 

"  Monsieur  I'embassadeur  craignant  que  la  despesche  en  chifre  que  ie  vous  fys 
dernierement  par  aultre  voye  ne  vous  aye  este  rendu  ie  vous  enuoye  vng  duplicata 
ny  voullant  y  mander  aulcune  chose  dimportance  iusques  a  ce  que  ie  soy  seure  que 
vous  ayes  recu  I'alfabet  cy  enclos  pour  seruir  cy  apres  entre  nous  car  cesluy  cy  a 
passe  par  trop  de  mains  pour  sy  fyeretune  prisonniere  a  tout  a  craindre  ie  suis  con- 
tente  pour  ceste  religion  mourir  et  estre  destenue  mays  ie  ne  veulx  exposer  le  troupeau 
de  fidelles  pour  lamour  de  moy  ie  desireroys  infinjnnent  scauoir  loccasion  du  voyage 
en  escosse  du  baron  desneual  &  votre  opinion  comme  iauray  a  proceder  auuec  luy 
pour  correspondre  a  sa  charge  &  commission  si  il  mest  permis  denuoyer  quelqun 
des  myens  devers  mon  fylz  comme  ie  requis  dernierement  enuoyez  moy  par  ce  por- 
teur  tous  les  pacquetz  que  vous  &  cherclles  auues  entres  les  mayns  pour  moy  les 
enfermant  en  une  petite  boite  ou  sac  de  cuir  fort. 

"  Votre  bien  bonne  amye 

"  Marie 
"  de  Charteley  ce  dernier  de  Januier."  "  R. 

MARY  TUDOR,  Queen  of  England,  b.  15 16,  d.  1558.  A.  L.  s. 
In  French.  Addressed  to  the  Emperor  Charles  V.,  "  Icmpereur 
monseigneur  et  bon  pere,"  from  Richmond.  13  Aout  (iS57).  With 
seal. 


MA  R  Y—JI//L  L.  1 699 

A  very  fine  and  neatly-written  letter  of  congratulation  upon  the  victory  won  at 
the  Battle  of  St.  Qiicntin,  by  her  husband,  Philip  II.  of  Sjjain. 

There  is  also  in  the  collection  a  document  signed  by  the  Queen,  entitled,  "A 
memoriall  from  our  trustie  and  ryght  welbeloued  counsellor  Anthony  Husey  Ksquier 
lately  chosen  governor  of  our  marchante  adventurers  in  the  lowe  countries  and  by 
us  appoynted  to  be  our  Agent  in  those  partes  given  the  last  of  June  1556." 

MARY,  Queen  of  England,  b.  1662,  d.  1694.  A.  L.  s.  A  mo.st 
interesting  and  affectionate  letter  addressed  "  A  Madame  d'Ouer- 
kirque."    With  the  original  seal  in  perfect  preservation. 

"Guedy  25  de  Fev. 
"J'estois  senciblement  touchee  d'aprendre  la  mort  de  Madame  de  Landsdown 
sachant  come  bien  cella  vous  seroit  sencible  et  a  M.  d'Ouerkirke,  J'advoue  que  J'en 
estois  mesnie  surprise  ne  croyent  pas  qu'elle  fut  si  mall,  Je  prieres  dieu  de  vous 
donner  les  consolations  qui  vous  sont  nessessaire  et  qui  assurement  ne  peuvent 
venir  que  de  lui,  et  il  semble  qu'il  vous  a  fait  de  grace  de  considerer  les  choses  de 
ce  monde  comme  vous  le  devez  Je  souhaite  de  tous  mon  coeur  que  parcette  example 
adjoustee  a  tant  d'autre  que  nous  voyons  chaque  jour  nous  pouvions  estre  autent 
detachee  du  monde  et  soumise  a  la  volontee  de  dieu  que  nous  le  devions  afin  d'estre 
prepare  a  la  mort  qui  est  si  incertaine,  Je  croit  que  vostre  fille  I'estois  et  ne  dout 
point  qu'elle  ne  soit  heureux,  ce  n'est  que  ceux  qu'elle  a  laissee  en  ce  monde  qui 
sont  a  plaindre,  ce  que  je  fais  autent  qu'il  est  possible  et  n'a  pas  voulu  manquer  de 
vous  assurer  de  !a  part  que  je  prens  en  tous  ce  qui  vous  touche  estant  autent  vostre 
Amie  que  je  le  suis. — Marie  R." 

MARY  OF  MODENA,  Queen  of  James  II.  b.  1658,  d.  1718. 
A.  L.  with  Signature  "  M.  R."  Dated  "  St.  Germain  20  Janvier."  [1704.] 
Addressed  to  the  Abbess  of  the  Convent  of  Chaillot.    With  seal. 

"...  Je  me  porte  asses  bien,  Dieu  merci  ;  et  bien  mieux  que  jen'ay  encore 
fait  depuis  Fontainebleau,  je  suis  persuadee  que  vos  prieres  et  celles  de  vos  Saintes 
filles  me  sont  d'une  grande  utilit(f,  .  .  .  et  que  sans  elles  je  succomberais,  car 
je  suis  accabl^  de  toutes  sortes  de  chagrins." 

MELANCHTHON,  Philip,  b.  1497,  d.  1560.  A.  L.  s.  In  Ger- 
man. Dated  26  March,  1540.  With  address  to  Dr.  J.  Lange,  and 
seal. 

MENDELSSOHN-BARTHOLDY,  Felix,  b.  1809,  d.  1847. 
A.  L.  s.    To  Madame  Kidne  in  Paris.    Dated  Leipsig,  24  F"eb.,  1838. 

MICHAEL  ANGELO  BUONAROTTI.  b.  1474,  d.  1564. 
A.  R.  s.    4to.    7  June,  15 14. 

Acknowledges  the  receipt  of  1,600  gold  ducats  from  Laurentio  de  Puccj,  being 
part  payment  for  the  tomb  of  Pope  Julius. 

MILL,  John  Stuart.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Mrs.  Huth  re- 
specting the  publication  of  a  volume  of  Mr.  Buckle's  posthumous 
papers.    Dated  "Blackheath,  Aug.  10,  1864." 


i/oo  MIR  ABE  A  U~NEL  S  ON. 

MIRABEAU,  Victor  Riquetti,  Marquis  de.  b.  1745,  d.  1789. 
A.  L.  s.  Superscription  and  seal  pasted  at  the  end.  To  the  Marquise 
Dufaillant,  his  daughter.     Paris,  January  3,  1767. 

MONTGOLFIER,  J.  M.  Inventor  of  ^rostation.  b.  1740,  d. 
1799.    Dated  June  24,  1784. 

"  Le  Balon  de  St.  Cloud  n'a  eu  qu'iin  Ire's  mediocre  succfes,  malgrd  L'argent 
enorme  quil  a  coutd  je  nay  encor  aucune  rdponse  au  sujet  de  celui  de  paris." 

MONTROSE,  James  Graham,  Marquis  of.  b.  161 3,  executed 
1649.    A.  L.  s.    I  page  4to.    Dated  24th  March,  1645. 

Desires  him  to  hasten  out  with  all  his  fencible  and  other  men,  excepting  such  as 
are  required  "for  maintaining  the  housse  and  the  prissoners  whose  nuinber  you 
wold  a  littell  increase." 

MORLAND,  George,  b.  1764,  d.  1804.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  St. 
Omer's,  Oct.  30,  1785  ;  also  a  Fragment  signed. 

An  account  of  his  tour  abroad,  including  notices  of  pictures,  particularly  Rubens' 
Descent  from  the  Cross — alludes  to  the  relics,  one  of  which  he  says  is  the  soul  of 
St.  Omer  in  a  large  silver  box — ''  I  keep  the  best  of  company  here  Marquiss's  &c., 
and  if  I  had  colours  I  might  paint  like  smoke,"  &c. 

MORNAY,  Philippe  De.  Seigneur  du  Plessis  Marly,  b.  1549, 
d.  1623.  Letter  subscribed  and  signed.  Addressed  to  the  father  of 
Marshal  Turenne.    Dated  London,  July  3.    [Without  date  of  year.] 

An  interesting  political  letter,  detailing  movements  in  the  Low  Countries — he 
apprehends  danger  to  the  Churches,  and  has  no  hope  from  Flanders. 

MOZART,  W.  A.  b.  1756,  d.  1791.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  "La 
Baronne  de  Waldstetten." 

A  letter  of  the  highest  interest,  relating  to  Constance  Weber,  his  future  wife,  who 
was  then  residing  with  Madame  de  Waldstetten.  Mozart  says  that  Constance's 
mother  threatens  to  send  the  police,  if  her  daughter  does  not  return  home  at  once. 

Autograph  Music,  i  page  folio. 

MURILLO,  B.\RTOLOMEO.  b.  1613,  d.  1682.  Autograph  signa- 
ture appended  to  an  original  sketch. 

NAPOLEON  L,  Emperor  of  the  French,  b.  1769,  d.  1820. 
Autograph  correction  and  signature  to  an  ofificial  document. 

NECKER,  Jacques,    b.  1732,  d.  1804.    A.  L.  without  signature. 
A  long  and  interesting  letter  of  four  pages. 

NELSON,  Horatio  Lord.  b.  1756,  d.  1805.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed 
to  Lady  Hamilton.    Dated  "  Madeira,  Aug.  7,  1801." 

The  letter  concludes,  "  To  our  friends  say  everything  which  is  kind  and  to  our 
enemies  damn  them." 


NEWTON— PRIOR.  1701 

NEWTON,  Sir  Isaac,    b.  1642,  d.  1727.    A.  s.  on  a  ticket  for  the 
Meeting  of  the  Royal  Society.  20  Nov.,  1723. 

Signature  to  a  Treasury  order.    Dated  Dec.  24,  17 18. 


PENN,  William,    b.  16—,  d.  1718.    A.  L.  s. 

"  My  ould  Friend  I  have  been  four  times  at  the  widdow  Aubreys  tod.ay  and 

she  is  wilhng  if  her  son  consent  to  do  w'  thou  desirest  of  me  by  thy  letter 

I  truly  pitty  thy  many  misfortunes  and  heartily  desire  they  may  be  made  bencficiall 
to  thee  as  a  man  and  christian,  and  am  sorry  I  cannot  be  as  serviceable  to  thee  as 
1  sincerely  wish  forw'ever  thou  mayst  think  I  am  thy  affectionate  friend  Wm.  Penn." 

PEPYS,  Samuel,     b.  1632,  d.  1703.    A.  L.  s.    Dated  Greenwich, 
24  October,  1665. 

A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  his  nephew  at  Lisbon.  Dated  March  4. 


1701  Shrove  Tuesday. 

PHILIP  II.,  King  of  Spain,  b.  1527,  d.  1598.  A.  L.  s.  in  Spanish. 
With  seal,  January  6,  1559. 

Relating  to  negotiations  concerning  the  Peace. 

PIOZZI,  Mrs.  H.  L.  b.  1739,  d.  1821.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Major 
Barry.    With  seal.     Dated  Scarborough,  June  22,  1789. 

"  Your  very  kind  Letter  quiets  all  my  nerves  about  the  Book,  and  flatters  my 
vanity  on  every  side.     If  the  Publick  is  diverted,  if  you  are  contented,  and  Lord 

Huntingdon  applauds .     I  will  be  happy  about  it  ;  I  am  very  glad  the  Irish  are 

sensible  of  your  merits,  all  the  world  is  so  I  believe  ;  but  pray  condescend  to  accept 
the  Tribute  of  one  Welchvvoman." 

PITT,  W.    b.  I7S9,  d.  1806.    A.  L.  s. 

POLE,  Regin.\ld,  Cardinal  Archbishop  of  Canterbury',  b.  1500, 
d.  1558.  A.  L.  s.  In  Latin.  Addressed  to  Cardinal  Morone.  Dated 
London,  Jan.  14,  1555- 

A  long  letter  of  three  pages.     In  perfect  preservation. 

POUSSIN,  N.  b.  1613,  d.  1675.  A.  L.  s.  To  the  "Abbate  di 
Cavore."    Dated  "  Di  Parigi  14  Marzo  1642." 

A  very  interesting  letter  in  Italian,  relating  to  pictures  he  is  painting. 

A.   L.  s.    Addressed  to  the  same.     Dated  "  Di  Parigi,  9. 

Maggio  1642." 

PRIOR,  Matthew,  b.  1664,  d.  1721.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  October 
20,  1711. 

"  I  am  very  busy  and  laborious  in  my  Pacifick  Character,  in  viVxcVentre  nouswe. 
shall  succeed,  tho'  our  seeming  friends  abroad  and  our  real  enemies  at  home  endea- 
vour to  obstruct  us,  this  you  may  let  His  Grace  of  Ormond  know  when  you  give  him 

9X 


1702  PRIOR— RICHARDSON. 

my  great  duty  and  eternal  good  wishes.  If  any  foolish  Poet  had  made  Anagrams 
or  Acrostics  lately  I  suppose  I  should  have  had  them  referred  to  me,  however  vile 
that  sort  of  trash  on  your  side  I  could  returne  you  worse  from  hence." 

PRIOR,  Matthew.    A.  L.  s.    Dated  Paris,  8  Oct.,  1712. 

A  political  letter  in  French. 

RALEIGH,  Sir  Walter,  b.  1552,  beheaded  1618.  A.  L.  s.  To 
his  Nephew  Sir  John  Gilbert  Kniglit.  14th  of  July  (a  little  before  the 
sailing  of  the  Island  expedition  under  Essex,  on  Aug.  17,  1597). 
With  address  and  seal. 

A.  L.  s.    Addressed  "  To  my  very  worthy  frind  Sir  Walter 


Cope  Knight.    Oct.  5  "  [no  year].    A  long  and  most  remarkable  letter, 
of  touching  and  painful  interest. 

"  My  desire  is,  that  you  will  be  pleased  to  moue  my  Lord  Treasurer  in  my  be- 
half, that  by  his  grace  my  wife  might  agayne  be  made  a  prisoner  with  me,  as  she 
hath  bine  for  six  yeeres  last  past.  Shee  being  now  deuided  from  me,  and  therby 
to  my  great  impoverishing  I  am  driven  to  keip  to  houses.  A  miserable  sute  it  is, 
and  yet  great  to  me,  who,  in  this  wretched  estate  can  hope  for  no  other  thing,  than 
peacible  sorrow."  The  letter  closes  thus  :  "  S'',  the  matter  is  of  no  great  impor- 
tance (though  a  cruell  destinie  hath  made  it  so  to  me)  to  desire  that  my  wife  may 
live  with  mee,  in  this  unsauery  place,  If  by  your  mediation  I  may  obtayne  it  I 
will  acknowledg  in  the  highest  degree  of  thankfullnes,  and  rest  reddy  in  trew  fayth 
to  be  commanded  by  you — W.  Ralegh." 

RAPHAEL  SANZIO  Di  Urbino.    b.  1483,  d.  1520.    Autograph 
receipt  for  two  months'  pension  of  100  ducats.    Dated  June  i,  15 17. 
"Jo  raphaello  da  Urbino  dipintore  ho  receuto  li  ducati  ciento  doro  vt  supra." 

REYNOLDS,  Sir  Joshua,  b.  1723,  d.  1792.  A.L.s.  Addressed 
to  the  Rev.  Dr.  Percy.    Dated  Leicesterfields,  March  3. 

RICHARDSON,  Samuel,  b.  1689,  d.  1761.  A.  L.  s.  A  highly 
interesting  letter,  addressed  to  some  particular  friend.  Dated  12 
January,  174I-. 

"As  to  Mr.  Garrick,  give  me  leave  to  say  what  I  know;  which  is,  that  he  was 
actually  long  ago  engaged  in  Ircjie.  The  Author  [Dr.  Johnson]  was  his  tutor,  and 
it  was  expected  to  come  on  last  season.  Garrick  had  also  engaged  to  Mr.  Lyttleton 
that  no  new  play  should  be  acted  during  the  run  of  Coriolanus.  There  was  ill-will 
between  Mr.  Thomson  and  Mr.  Garrick  on  the  score  of  Mr.  Quin  and  of  that  play, 
and  Mr.  Garrick  was  glad  of  an  opportunity  to  regain  Mr.  Lyttleton's  opinion  by 
such  a  promise.  Mr.  Millar  got  me  one  evening  last  week  to  look  upon  some  scenes 
of  Merope  at  his  house,  I  took  no  notice  of  having  seen  it ;  but  read  some  parts  of 
it,  as  new  to  me,  and  that  before  his  wife  and  her  sister,  two  intelligent  women,"  &c. 
He  also  alludes  to  various  other  matters  of  literary  and  theatrical  interest. 

A.  L.  s.    Addres.scd  to  Mi.ss  Grainger,  dated  3  Dec,  1749. 

A  long  and  interesting  letter  in  which  he  discusses  the  characters  of  Clarissa 
.Tnd  Calista 


RICHELIEU—SHELLEY.  1703 

RICHELIEU,  L.  F.  Armand  Duplessis  de.  Marshal  of  Franco. 
b.  1696,  d.  1788.    A.  L.  s.    Dated  "  A  Paris  ce  10  Aoust  1779." 

ROUSSEAU,  J.  J.  b.  1712,  d.  1778.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed 
"Monsieur  Guy  a  Paris."    Dated  "Strasbourg,  9  Oct.  1765." 

A  letter  of  the  highest  interest.  Is  .inxious  to  get  to  Paris  to  correct  the  Dic- 
tionary, does  not  know  how  to  get  there,  and  fears  he  will  be  turned  out  if  his  pre- 
sence there  becomes  known. 

RUBENS,  P.  P.  b.  IS77,  d.  1640.  A.  L.  s.  "A  Monsieur  dc  Pay 
a  Paris."    Dated  Antwerp,  17  Sept.  1626. 

An  interesting  letter  in  Italian. 

A.  L.  s.    In  Italian.    Dated  Madrid,  April  22,  1629. 

He  does  not  know  if  "  I'iniquita  della  staggion  corrente  "  will  allow  him  to  see 
his  correspondent  and  serve  him  in  Provence,  but  it  is  possible  that  he  may  first  go 
to  Paris.  He  thanks  him  for  having  sent  a  fine  Heroic  Inscription  which  he  has 
shown  to  the  Count  of  Olivares.  The  rest  of  this  extremely  interesting  letter  is 
filled  with  important  political  news.  In  a  postscript  he  wishes  to  be  remembered  to 
the  Abbate  di  St.  Ambrosio  and  M.  de  la  Motte. 

RUSKIN,  John.    A.  L.  s. 

SCHILLER,  F.  von.  b.  1759,  d.  1805.  A.  L.  s.  To  Goethe. 
Dated  Jena,  31  Aug.  1794. 

"  Our  tardy  acquaintance,  which  has  raised  so  many  hopes  within  me  is  another 
proof  how  much  better  it  is  to  allow  hazard  to  reign,  instead  of  interfering  by  pre- 
mature activity.  Do  not  expect  to  find  in  me  great  wealth  of  ideas  ;  this  is  what  I 
shall  find  in  you,"  &:c.,  &c. 

SCOTT,  Sir  Walter,  b.  1771,  d.  1832.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
William  Millar,  Esq.     Edinburgh,  5  March,  1807. 

Writes  about  "  La  Morte  d' Arthur  "  and  "  Marmion." 

SELDEN,  John.  b.  1584,  d.  1654.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
Mr.  Edward  Gill,  Rotherham,  Yorkshire.  Dated  Whitefriars,  Dec.  27, 
1652. 

Relating  to  a  business  transaction  which  he  is  anxious  should  be  speedily  settled. 

SEVIGNE,  Marie  de  Rabutin-Chantal,  Marquise  de.  b. 
1627,  d.  1696.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Monsieur  de  Menage. 
Without  date. 

SHELLEY,  P.  B.  b.  1792,  d.  1822.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  T.  L. 
Peacock,  Esq.  Bagni  di  Lucca,  16  Aug.  18 18. 

"  I  have  finished  by  taking  advantage  of  a  few  days  of  inspiration — which  the 
Camena;  have  lately  been  very  backward  in  conceding — the  little  poem,  I  began 

sending  to  the  press  in  London Nightmare  Abbey  finished.    Well  what  is 

in  it .'  What  is  it  ?  You  are  as  secret  as  if  the  priest  of  Ceres  had  dictated  its 
sacred  pages." 


I704  SHELLEY—STEELE. 

SHELLEY,  P.  B.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Joseph  Severn,  Esq. 
Dated  "Pisa,  29  Nov.  1821." 

"  I  send  you  the  Elegy  on  poor  Keats,  and  wish  it  was  better  worth  your  accep- 
tance. In  spite  of  his  transcendant  genius  Keats  never  was  nor  ever  will  be  a 
popular  poet,  and  the  total  neglect  and  obscurity  in  which  the  astonishing  remnants 
of  his  mind  still  lie,  was  hardly  to  be  dissipated  by  a  writer,  who,  however  he  may 
differ  from  Keats  in  many  important  qualities,  at  least  resembles  him  in  that  acci- 
dental one,  a  want  of  popularity." 

SHENSTONE,  William,  b.  1714,  d.  1763.  A.L.s.  Dated  "  The 
Lessowes,"  Nov.  20,  1762. 

Complains  that  dizziness  of  head  and  depression  of  spirits  are  at  best  no  trivial 
maladies,  and  great  discouragement  to  writing.  Had  not  yet  wTitten  to  Mr.  Graves, 
and,  in  reference  to  Percy's  Ballads,  hopes  they  still  have  merit  to  engage  the 
public,  but  would  have  rejected  all  such  ballads  as  had  no  plea  but  their  antiquity. 
A  long  and  interesting  letter  referring  to  the  Lessowes  and  other  matters. 

SIDNEY,   Sir  Philip,     b.   1554,  d.   15^6.     A.  L.  s.    To   Lord 

Burghley,    Lord    High   Treasurer.     Dated    Leystor    House,   Feb.   8, 

1576. 

Praying  an  advance  of  ^200  for  Sir  Nicholas  BagnoU. 

SMOLLETT,  T.  b.  1721,  d.  1771.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Mr. 
William  Strahan,  Printer,  New  Street.    Dated  Chelsea,  July  20,  1759. 

Vindicating  himself  from  some  insinuations  contained  in  a  letter  sent  him  some 
time  before,  wishing  him  pleasure  in  his  proposed  excursion,  and  requesting  hiin  to 
visit  Commissary  Smollett  and  his  lady  when  at  Edinburgh. 

SOUTHAMPTON,  Henry,  Earl  of.  b.  1573,  d.  1624.  A.  L.  s. 
Addressed  to  "  The  Lo :  Spencer." 

Thanks  for  the  letter  "  which  brought  mee  the  good  newes  of  your  health  and  all 
yours  w"^""  God  longe  continew."  "  We  are  now  nearly  ready  to  lea\-y  our  men  for 
the  low  contries  and  our  drumes  shall  beate  I  thinke  in  ten  dayes  " — mentions  that 
"  no  part  of  the  subsidies  is  yett  come,"  with  other  matters  respecting  the  campaign. 

SOUTHEY,  Robert,  b.  1774,  d.  1843.  A.  L.  signed  with 
initials.    A  familiar  letter  to  Mr.  Cottle.    Dated  July  5,  1804. 

He  recommends  him  to  insert  in  a  miscellany  he  is  bringing  out  "  a  little  ode 
to  the  Rosemary  by  Henry  Kirke  White,  a  boy  of  Nottingham." 

STEELE,  Sir  Richard,  b.  1671,  d.  1729.  A.L.s.  Addressed 
to  Ambrose  Philipps,  Bloomsbury  Square.  April  29,  1713. 

Asking  the  favour  of  the  sequel  of  a  story  lo  be  sent  to  him,  which  he  will  return 
before  they  go  to  press. 

A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  Mrs.  Clayton,  Bedchamber  Woman  to 

the  Princess  of  Wales  (Queen  of  George  H.).    Dated  May  26,  1724. 

"  You  will  I  hope,  forgive  that  I  take  the  liberty,  as  I  am  bereft  both  of  limbs 
and  speech,  to  address  the  enclosed  Petition  to  your  care.    You  have  language  in 


STERNE— TURENNE.  1705 

perfection,  but  I  know  more  for  your  friends  than  yourself.  I  begg  the  favour  of 
you  to  obtain  of  Her  Royal  Highness  her  pleasure  herein,  and  you  will  infinitely 
oblige." 

STERNE,  Laurence,  b.  171 3,  d.  1768.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
Mr.  Mills,  Merchant,  Philpot  Lane,  London.  Dated  "  Montpellier, 
Nov.  24,  1763." 

Requests  the  loan  of  Fifty  Pounds,  has  been  to  Bagniers  in  the  Pyrenees,  where 
he  has  been  very  ill  ;  will  call  on  him  as  soon  as  he  returns  to  London ;  with  a 
thousand  thanks,  and  the  Interest  (at  least);  as  for  the  Capital,  the  whole  Shandean 
family  will  stand  bound  for  it. 

SWIFT,  Jonathan,  b.  1667,  d.  1745.  A.  L.  s.  For  John  Temple, 
Esq.     Dated  Dublin,  15  June,  1706. 

"  I  am  extremely  obliged  by  your  kind  invitation  to  More  Park,  which  no  time 
will  make  me  forget  or  love  less.  If  I  love  Ireland  better  than  I  did,  it  is  because 
we  are  nearer  related,  for  I  am  deeply  allyed  to  its  Poverty.  My  little  Revenue  is 
sunk  two  Parts  in  three,  and  the  third  is  in  Arrear.  Therefore  if  I  come  to  More 
Park,  it  must  be  on  foot,"  &c.  &c. 

TALLEYRAND-PERIGORD,  Charles  Maurice  de.  b. 
1754,  d.  1838.  A.  L.  s.  A  remarkable  letter  addressed  to  King 
George  III.  and  remonstrating  against  an  order  which  he  had  received 
to  quit  England.    Dated  "  Londrcs  ce  30  Janvier,  1794." 

TASSO,  TorQUATO.  b.  1544,  d.  1595.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
Signor  Curtio  Arditio.  Mantoua. 

Sends  a  sonnet,  and  begs  to  be  remembered  to  all  the  gentlemen  of  His 
Highness. 

TAYLOR.jEREMY,  Bp.  of  Down.  b.  1613,  d.  1667.  A.L.  s.  Dated 
Nov.  15,  1656. 

Commences  thus  :  "  In  the  midst  of  all  the  discouragements  which  I  meet 
withall  in  an  ignorant  and  obstinate  age,  it  is  a  great  comfort  to  mee,  and  I  receive 
new  degrees  of  confidence  when  I  find  that  your  selfe  and  such  other  ingenious 
and  learned  persons  as  your  selfe,  are  not  only  patient  of  truth,  and  love  it  better 
than  prejudice  and  prepossession,  but  are  so  ingenuous  as  to  dare  to  owne  it  in 
despite  of  the  contradictory  voices  of  error  and  unjust  partiality." 

TENNYSON,  A.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to  C.  S.  Wheeler,  Esq. 
Dated  Boxley  Hill,  Maidstone,  Kent. 

THACKERAY,  W.  M.  Autograph  Note  signed.  Addressed  to 
H.  W.  Pickersgill,  with  envelope. 

There  are  also  in  the  collections  short  letters  addressed  by  Thackeray  to 
Mr.  Buckle  and  Miss  Trulock. 

TURENNE,  Henri  de  la  Tour  d'Auvergne,  Vicomte  de. 
b.  161 1,  d.  1675.    A.  L.  s.    Dated  "  Paris  ce  i''  Jan.  1642." 


i7o6  TURNER— WILLIAM  III. 

TURNER,  J.  M.  W.  b.  1776,  d.  185 1.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  April 
II,  1834. 

UHLAND,  LUDWIG.  b.  1787,  d.  1862.  Aut.  MS.  50  pages,  folio. 
"  Der  Rosengarten  von  Worms."    A  German  heroic  legend. 

VERONESE,  Paolo,  b.  1532,  d.  1588.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
Signor  Marc  Antonio  Gandini,  Treviso.  Dated  Venice,  28  March,  1578. 

VOLTAIRE,  F.  M.  Arouet  de.  b.  1694,  d.  1778.  A.  L.  s. 
Addressed  to  the  Margravine  of  Anspach.  Dated  i  March.  Signed 
"  Voltaire." 

WALLER,  Edmund,  b.  1605,  d.  1687.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
John  Evelyn  (endorsed  by  him).     Paris,  S  May,  1648. 

In  reference  to  his  banishment,  "  for  your  poore  servant  (since  you  do  so  friendly 
invite  me  to  trouble  you),  if  you  can  say  anything  to  any  of  yr  noble  kinsmen  or 
frends  in  Parlt.  to  give  me  leave  to  returne  to  gather  up  the  peeices  of  my  wract 
fortune,  'tis  all  I  desire."  He  was  not  recalled  to  England  until  after  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Protectorate. 

WALPOLE,  Horace,  b.  1718,  d.  1797.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
John  Pinkerton,  Esq.     Dated  Strawberry  Hill,  29  June,  1787. 

WASHINGTON,  George,  b.  1732,  d.  1799.  A.  L.  s.  Dated 
"Mount  Vernon,  Feb.  24,  1788." 

An  interesting,  familiar  letter,  addressed  to  Sir  Edward  Newenham. 

WEBER,  C.  M.  VON.  b.  1786,  d.  1826.  A.  L.  s.  Addressed  to 
Kapellmeister  Wagner,  Darmstadt.     Dated  Dresden,  10  June,  1822. 

An  interesting  letter  relating  to  his  opera  "  Der  Freischutz." 

WELLINGTON,  Arthur  Wellesley,  Duke  of.  b.  1769, 
d.  1852.    A.  L.  s.    Dated  "London,  May  8,  1833." 

WESLEY,  John.  b.  1703,  d.  1791.  A.  L.  s.  Dated  "London 
June  3,  1781." 

He  relates  how  Lord  George  Gordon,  then  confined  in  the  Tower  for  High  Trea- 
son, had  desired  to  see  him,  and  gives  some  account  of  their  interview. 

WILKIE,  Sir  David,  b.  1785,  d.  1841.  A.  L.  without  sig- 
nature. 

WILLIAM  III.  b.  1650,  d.  1702.  A.  L.  s.  in  French.  Dated  "Au 
Camp  de  Malaivre,  ce  24  de  Juin,  1691." 

Had  much  pleasure  in  learning  that  his  correspondent  had  determined  to  join 


WOLFE— WREN.  1707 

him  with  his  troops  ;  and  sends  his  Gentleman  of  the  Chamber  to  compliment  him 
thereon.     Signed  "  Vostre  tres  affectione  Cousin,  William  R." 

WOLFE,  General  James,  b.  1726,  d.  1759.  A.  L.  s.  Dated 
"Blackheath,  20th  Dcc"^.  1758." 

Addressed  to  Colonel  Warde,  inquiring  whether  he  would  like  to  be  employed 
as  Adjutant-General  in  a  very  hazardous  enterprise,  and  evidently  referring  to  the 
expedition  to  Canada,  which  he  was  then  organizing. 

WOLSEY,  Thomas,  Cardinal  Archbishop  of  York.  b.  147 1, 
d.  1530.    L.  s.  inLatin.    Addressed  to  the  Pope.    June  3,  15 16. 

Announcing  the  death  of  the  Bishop  of  Negropont,  his  suffragan  and  secretary, 
and  proposing  for  his  successor,  Richard,  Prior  of  Drax. 

WORDSWORTH,  William,  b.  1770,  d.  1850.  A.  L.  s.  Ad- 
dressed to  John  Kenyon. 

Autograph  MS.  of  a  Sonnet,   "  The  Stone-pine  of  Monte 

Mario  at  Rome."    Dated  "  Rydal  Mount,  March,  1839." 

WREN,  Sir  Christopher,  b.  1632,  d.  1723.  A.  L.  s.  Dated 
Whitehall,  21  June,  1699. 

Respecting  his  inability  to  complete  his  professional  engagements,  of  which  he 
assigns  the  cause.  The  letter  begins  :  "  The  ready  execution  of  his  M"'''.  comandes 
is  to  me  soe  sacred  a  thing,  that  if  I  am  unavoydably  hindered  in  it,  I  thinke  in  that 
case  it  is  my  duty  to  let  him  know  my  misfortune." 


ENGRAVINGS  ON  WOOD  AND  METAL. 

S^C.  XV.— XVIII. 


9  V 


^SSSS^SBB^WCgggggaBB^^^ 


ENGRAVINGS. 

DOTTED  PLATES  OR  "SCHROTBLATTER." 

THE  MASS  OF  ST.  GREGORY. 
The  facsimile  which  is  given  opposite  obviates  the  necessity  for  any  description. 

THE  DEATH  OF  THE  VIRGIN. 

This  print,  like  "The  Mass  of  St.  Gregory,"  is  so  well  represented  by  the  fac- 
simile as  to  render  any  detailed  account  of  it  unnecessary. 

These  remarkable  specimens  are  both  unique.  They  were  found  pasted  in  the 
covers  of  a  Latin  Bible  printed  by  Koberger  at  Nuremberg  in  1478,  and  are 
mentioned  by  Dr.  Willshire  in  his  "Introduction  to  the  Study  and  Collection  of 
Ancient  Prints,"  as  the  largest  examples  he  had  seen  of  prints  of  this  description. 

ST.  OSZWALT,  ST.  NOPURG. 

The  two  figures  stand  upright,  facing  one  another:  St.  Nopurg  on  the  right 
hand,  St.  Oswald  on  the  left.  The  latter  holds,  in  his  right  hand,  a  bird ;  in  his 
left  a  sceptre.  St.  Nopurg  approaches  one  hand  to  a  serpent  which  stands  upright 
before  her ;  the  other  is  not  seen.  At  the  top  of  the  pillar,  on  her  right,  is  engraved 
a  shield,  with  a  hunting-horn.  On  the  opposite  pillar,  behind  St.  Oswald,  is  a 
shield,  intersected  by  wavy  lines.     Size,  6'g  by  4|. 

ST.  CRISTINA. 

A  companion  print  to  the  preceding.  The  saint  stands  upright,  holding  in  front 
of  her  a  mill-stone,  which  is  hung  by  a  chain  round  her  neck.  On  each  side  are 
pillars  twined  with  oak-leaves  and  acorns.  Beneath,  engraved  in  white  with  black 
ground,  the  legend,  "  O  Sancta  Cristina  ora  pro  nobis."     Size,  6i  by  4^'^. 

EARLY  GERMAN  ENGRAVINGS  ON  WOOD  OR 

METAL. 

A  XYLOGRAPHIC  INDULGENCE.  In  the  centre  is  a  half- 
length  figure  of  the  Virgin,  who  holds  the  infant  Christ  on  her  left  arm. 
Round  this  figure  is  a  legend  in  German,  which  runs  thus  :  "  Das  ist 
die  bildnus  d'  all'  saligste  Junkfrowe  male  I  de  klaidn  vn  det  scmik 
welche  sie  getziert  wz  an  de  hochzytliche  veste  so  si  halsucht  de  tepel 
zu  Jerusale  als  v6  ir  schrybt  d'  wirdig  beda  T  ain  omely  also  hat 
sy  abgemalt  lucas  Ewagel ist  welches  gmeid  vn  kunt'fey  ma  noch  zu  ro 
hat."     Beneath   the   cut   are   ten   xylographic  lines,  stating   the   in 


1/12  ENGRAVINGS. 

Early  German  Engravings — cotitinued. 

dulgence:  "  Bapst  sixtus  der  vierde  hat  alien  den  die  disz  nach- 
geschriben  gebette  andachtigclichen  sprechen  xi  tusent  iar  wares 
ablasz  geben  vnnd  verlihen  als  offt  vnd  dicke  sie  das  sprechen  Wel- 
liches  gebetter  in  ainer  kranckhait  zu  lob  vnd  ere  der  Junckfrowen 
marie  geniacht  vnd  bestattiget  hat.  Gegrusset  syestu  allerhailigste 
maria  ain  mut  gottes  ain  kingin  der  himel  ain  port  des  paradys  vn  ain 
besundere  fraw  der  welte.  Du  bist  ain  vaine  junkfrovv  du  hast  empfange 
Jhesum  ons  und  du  hast  geborn  den  schopffer  vh  hailmacher  der  welt. 
ende  mich  mt  z\v>^fel.  Erlosz  mich  v6  alien  vbel  vii  bitt  fur  mein  sunde 
Amen."    Size,  lof  by  ']\. 

It  is  most  probable  that  this  remarkable  broadside  is  unique. 

CHRIST'S  SUMMONS  TO  MAN.  An  early  German  Wood 
Engraving  of  very  remarkable  character.  On  the  right  side  is  a 
full-length  figure  of  Christ,  naked  except  a  cloth  round  the  waist, 
and  bound  by  a  rope  to  a  pillar,  and  a  large  cross.  In  the  left 
hand  he  holds  a  scourge  of  twigs,  and  in  the  right  a  rope  which 
encircles  the  waist  of  a  man  with  shaven  crown,  and  also  naked 
but  for  a  cloth  round  the  loins,  who  holds  a  heart  in  his  two 
hands.  Above  the  Christ  is  a  scroll  with  xylographic  inscription, 
"  Sun  gib  mir  din  licrtz  den  ich  licb  liab.  Deni  lass  ich  straff  nit 
ab."  In  front  of  the  other  figure  is  a  scroll  with  legend,  "  O  lierr  das 
zvill  ich  das  bcger  ich  darnnibc  so  soltu  ziclic  mich."  On  the  left  is  a  tree, 
on  which  is  hung  a  shield,  the  lower  half  white,  the  upper  half  black  ;  this 
is  probably  the  artist's  mark.  The  piece  is  of  great  merit  as  a  work  of 
art,  the  figures  being  drawn  with  much  feeling,  and  admirably  engraved. 
This  very  valuable  example  of  early  German  art  has  been  printed  with  a  rubber, 
not  at  a  printing  press,  as  the  back  of  it  plainly  shows.     It  measures  5-j^  by  7J5. 

ST.  VERONICA  HOLDING  THE  SUDARIUM,  with  a  large 
head  of  the  Saviour  upon  it.  Size,  y\  by  5.  A  very  beautiful  specimen 
of  early  German  art  of  the  best  school,  finely  and  delicately  executed. 
St.  Veronica  stands  erect,  with  outstretched  arms,  holding  the  Sudarium 
in  front  of  her.  She  wears  a  turban,  and  the  nimbus  above  her  head 
touches  the  black  line  which  surrounds  the  cut.  A  glory  radiates 
from  the  head  of  Christ  thus — eleven  rays  on  the  right  side,  thirteen 
on  the  left,  and  seven  from  the  top.  It  is  printed  in  a  pale  blackish 
ink.  There  is  an  inscription  in  MS.  at  the  foot,  with  the  date  of  1473; 
but  the  engraving  is  probably  earlier. 

A  SAINT,  kneeling,  with  a  crown  on  his  head,  and  holding  between 
his  hands  a  double  cross.  He  is  clad  in  a  goatskin,  and  has  a  girdle  of 
vine-leaves  round  his  waist.  An  angel  appears  in  the  clouds,  holding  a 
consecrated  wafer  with  outstretched  hand.  Printed  in  a  pale  ink.  It 
measures,  exclusive  of  the  border,  5|  by  41. 


ENGRAVINGS.  1713 

Early  German  Engravings — continued. 

ST.  CATHERINE.  A  full-length  figure,  turned  nearly  full  face  to 
the  right,  with  a  crown  on  her  head  ;  an  open  book  in  the  right  hand, 
and  a  sword  in  the  left.  Beneath  her  feet  is  a  prostrate  figure  of  a 
king  ;  behind  her,  the  wheel ;  with  a  town  in  the  background,  and  a 
castle  on  a  hill.    Size,  6f  by  4|-. 

THE  MARTYRDOM  OF  ST.  URSULA  and  her  Companions. 
St.  Ursula,  crowned,  sits  about  the  middle  of  the  ship,  but  rather 
towards  the  left.  At  one  end  is  a  bishop  who  receives  a  thrust  in  the 
eye  from  the  lance  of  a  soldier.  At  the  other  end  of  the  ship  is  a  seated 
pope,  and  in  the  centre,  by  the  side  of  St.  Ursula,  a  cardinal.  A  female, 
the  back  of  whose  head  is  pierced  by  an  arrow,  hangs  over  the  side, 
with  her  hair  in  the  water,  in  which  two  women  and  one  man  are 
struggling  separately.  At  the  top  of  the  picture  on  the  right, 
Cologne  Cathedral  is  introduced,  with  the  crane  on  the  top.  The 
composition  is  enclosed  by  two  black  lines.  Measuring  from  the  inner 
one,  the  size  is  <^\  by  7. 

ST.  JEROME  AND  THE  LION.  Size,  /i  by  5f  St.  Jerome 
is  seated,  and  wears  the  cardinal's  hat,  the  brim  of  which  intersects  two 
of  the  three  pillars  of  the  cloister  behind  him.  His  left  hand  rests  on 
the  lion's  paw,  and  with  the  right  he  places  his  stile  between  the  animal's 
claws.  On  the  right  side  of  the  cut  is  a  desk,  with  an  open  book  on  it. 

THE  MARTYRDOM  OF  ST.  SEBASTIAN.  Size,  n  by  5- 
The  saint  is  tied  to  a  tree,  while  two  men  and  two  boys  on  each  side  of 
him  shoot  at  him  with  cross-bows.  In  the  foreground  a  third  boy  ties 
his  feet  with  a  cord.  Beneath  the  cut  are  fifteen  lines  of  text,  con- 
taining an  invocation  to  the  saint  against  the  plague,  entirely  engraved 
on  wood. 

THE  HOLY  ROOD.  Christ  extended  on  the  Cross  while  angels 
hold  chalices  for  the  blood  from  his  wounds.  The  emblem  of  the 
Evangelists  within  circles,  one  at  each  extremity  of  the  Cross.  On 
either  side  are  St.  John  and  the  Blessed  Virgin.  Above  the  Cross  the 
sun  and  the  moon.  Beneath,  a  xylographic  inscription  of  the  beginning 
of  St.  John's  Gospel — "In  de  afag  wz  dz  vodt,"  &c. — eleven  lines. 
On  the  left  is  the  name  of  the  engraver,  "  Caspar."  This  is  evidently 
printed  from  metal.  Size,  \2\  by  7]-,  exclusive  of  a  portion  of  an 
ornamental  border  which  remains  on  the  left  side,  and  which  no  doubt 
originally  surrounded  the  plate. 

THE  DEATH  OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN.  Size,  I2i  by  8. 
A  very  fine  and  remarkable  early  woodcut,  containing  fifteen  figures. 


I7I4  ENGRAVINGS. 

Early  German  'Esckkw^g?,— continued. 

The  Virgin  is  extended  on  a  bed.  St.  Peter  holds  a  candle  and  book, 
and  another  saint  has  in  his  hand  a  chalice.  A  third  holds  the  released 
spirit  of  the  Virgin  in  his  arms.  On  the  front  side  of  the  bed  are  two 
reclining  figures  of  saints;  one  appears  to  sleep,  the  other  reads.  In 
the  centre  are  two  angels  holding  flambeaux. 

A  CRUCIFIXION.  Of  very  early  and  remarkable  design.  Size, 
lOi  by  7^.  On  the  right  hand  stands  St.  John,  on  the  left  the  Blessed 
Virgin. 

THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN  showing  the  Infant  Christ  to  St. 
Bridget.  The  saint  kneels  on  the  right :  the  Virgin  a  little  higher  on 
the  left,  with  the  infant  Christ  before  her.  In  front,  a  shield  with  a  lion 
rampant.  Beneath  is  engraved  the  legend,  "  Da  zeigt  mala  S.  birgita 
wie  sie  Jhs  geboren  hat."    Size,  4  by  2\. 

CHRIST  BEING  STRIPPED  FOR  SCOURGING.  A  soldier 
drags  the  clothes  from  our  Saviour,  while  a  second,  standing  behind 
him,  holds  them.  On  the  left  is  Caiaphas,  with  his  staff  of  office  ;  and 
behind  him  a  third  soldier  with  a  halberd.  Beneath  are  three  lines  of 
xylographic  inscription, "  O  her  ihu  xpe  duech  die  abziehung  vnd  menig 
diner  wunden  hilf  vns  christen  menschen  zii  alien  stunden."  Size,  5|- 
by4i. 

ST.  ANDREW  HOLDING  HIS  CROSS.     Size,  3  by  2i. 

THREE  NAKED  INFANTS,  each  with  a  nimbus,  gathering 
roses,  which  a  female  saint  collects  in  a  basket.     Size,  3^  by  2i. 

THE  DEATH  OF  THE  TEN  THOUSAND  MARTYRS, 
symbolized  by  four  saints  thrown  from  a  rock.     Size,  3  by  2^. 

ST.  JOHN  BAPTIST  preaching  in  the  Wilderness.  The  lamb 
in  his  arms.    Size,  3  by  2^. 

ST.  JOHN  THE  EVANGELIST,  with  the  Chalice.  Size,  3  by  2^. 

THE  ANGELIC  ANNOUNCEMENT  of  Christ's  Birth.  An 
angel  appears  from  the  clouds  on  the  left  to  a  shepherd  on  the  right : 
four  sheep  are  in  front  of  the  shepherd  and  one  behind  him.  Size, 
3  by  2i. 

ST.  CATHERINE.  On  the  right  stands  the  executioner,  the 
saint  in  the  centre,  the  wheel  on  the  left.  Over  it  appears  an  angel 
from  the  clouds.    Size,  3L  by  2'. 

CHRIST  WITH  THE  INSTRUMENTS  OF  THE  PAS- 
SION. The  Saviour  standing  upright  in  the  centre,  the  tomb  behind. 
Displayed  about,  the  spear,  the  sponge,  the  dice,  &c.    Size,  3^  by  2i. 


ENGRAVINGS.  1715 

Early  German  Engravings — continued. 

THE  SHIP  WITH  ST.  URSULA  and  five  of  her  Companions  : 
on  the  shore  two  soldiers ;  one  shoots  with  a  cross-bow,  the  other 
strikes  a  woman  with  his  sword.    Size,  3^  by  2\. 

ST.  MEYNRATH.  In  his  right  hand  he  holds  a  church  ;  a  bird 
is  perched  on  his  shoulder.     Size,  3  by  2. 

THE  HOLY  ROOD.  Christon  the  Cross,  with  St.  John  and  the 
Virgin  beneath.     Size,  31  by  2|. 

THE  MAN  OF  SORROWS.  Christ,  standing  upright,  displays 
his  wounds.  A  rich  tapestry  background,  behind  which  are  two  angels. 
Size,  3  by  2\. 

THE  SHIP  OF  ST.  URSULA.  The  saint  with  three  com- 
panions :  her  forehead  is  pierced  by  an  arrow.  On  the  shore  a  soldier. 
Size,  3^  by  2^.    Very  delicately  engraved,  and  printed  in  a  pale  ink. 

THE  OFFERINGS  OF  THE  MAGI.  On  the  right  the  Blessed 
Virgin  with  the  infant  Christ  in  her  arms,  St.  Joseph  behind  her.  On 
the  left  kneels  one  of  the  kings,  the  two  others  behind  bring  gifts. 
Surrounded  by  a  border  of  oak  leaves.     Size,  3^  by  4^. 

ST.  ERMERAN  AND  ST.  ALBAN.  St.  Ermeran  holds  his  head 
in  his  hand  ;  St.  Alban,  to  the  left,  holds  a  crozier  in  his  right  hand 
and  an  executioner's  sword  in  the  left.     Size,  74-  by  5. 

ST.  LAWRENCE  AND  ST.  STEPHEN.  St.  Lawrence,  on 
the  right,  holds  in  one  hand  the  gridiron,  in  the  other  a  book.  St. 
Stephen  carries  in  his  right  hand  a  stone,  in  his  left  a  palm-branch. 
Size,  -ji^  by  5. 

SOULS  IN  PURGATORY,  to  whom  an  Angel  from  above 
ministers.    Size,  3  by  2i. 

THE  LAST  SUPPER.  Christ  and  His  disciples  round  a  table. 
The  Saviour  in  the  centre  opposite,  St.  John  lying  on  His  breast. 
Size,  3  by  2\. 

ST.  CHRISTOPHER  crossing  the  River.  A  diminutive  and  curious 
xylograph.    Size,  i  ;^  by  l\. 

THE  HOLY  ROOD.  A  very  early  example.  Christ  hangs  on 
the  cross.  St.  John  to  the  right ;  the  Blessed  Virgin  to  the  left.  Size, 
3^-by2|. 

CHRIST  DISPLAYING  HIS  WOUNDS.  He  stands  upright  in 
front  of  the  tomb  :  behind,  the  instruments  of  the  Passion  are  suspended 
on  the  cross.    Size,  5^  by  3^. 


I7I6 


ENGRA  VINGS. 


Early  German  Engravings — continued. 

THE  VINE  OF  ST.  DOMINIC.  An  extraordinary  and  very 
fine  xylograph,  of  most  unusual  dimensions.  Size,  1 5^  by  io|-.  With 
xylographic  inscriptions  at  top  and  bottom  of  two  h'nes  each.  At  the 
foot  lies  St.  Dominic,  and  from  his  breast  springs  forth  a  vine,  among 
the  branches  of  which  are  represented  twenty-two  men  and  women 
saints,  the  great  lights  of  the  order,  beneath  each  of  whom  is  a  xylo- 
graphic  inscription  in  Latin  on  a  riband.  On  the  top  in  the  centre  is  a 
full-length  figure  of  the  Blessed  Virgin,  who  hands  her  mantle  to  Pope 
Innocent.    Dated  1473.    Collectio  Weigeliana,  vol.  i.  p.  278. 


ENGRAVINGS   ON    COPPER. 
JOHN  OF  COLOGNE. 

A  series  of  forty-seven  engravings  on  copper,  representing  the  Life 
and  Passion  of  Christ,  unknown  to  Bartsch,  but  described  by  Passa- 
vant,  vol.  ii.  pp.  180-184.  The  complete  set  consists  of  fifty-two  prints, 
but  only  two  other  series  besides  the  present  are  known,  one  of  which 
consists  of  fifty  pieces,  and  the  other  of  forty-nine.  The  series  of  fifty 
was  formerly  in  the  possession  of  Mr.  T.  O.  Weigel,  of  Leipzig,  and  is 
described  in  the  catalogue  of  his  collection,  vol.  ii.  p.  356.  At  his  sale 
in  1 87 1  it  was  purchased  for  the  Dresden  Museum  for  the  sum  of 
.^200.  When  bought  by  Mr.  Weigel  it  was  coloured,  but  under  his 
direction  the  paint  was  removed  from  forty-eight  out  of  the  fifty  prints. 
The  series  of  forty-nine  is  in  the  British  Museum. 

The  series  here  described  is  in  fine  condition  and  free  from  colour. 
It  consists  of  the  following  pieces,  the  numbers  being  taken  from 
Passavant : — 

41.  The  Last  Supper.     (This  is  not 
in  the  British  Museum  series.) 

42.  Christ    washing    the    Disciples' 
Feet. 

43.  Christ  in  the  Garden  of  Olives. 

44.  Christ  and  the  Three  Soldiers. 

45.  The  Betrayal. 

46.  Christ  before  Caiaphas. 

47.  Christ  before  Herod. 

48.  Christ  before  Pilate. 

49.  Christ     brought     again     before 
Herod. 

50.  Christ    brought   a   second    time 
before  Pihite. 

51.  Christ  Blindfolded. 

52.  The  Flagellation. 

53.  The  Crowning  with  Thorns. 

54.  Christ  shown  to  the  People. 

55.  Pilate  washes  his  Hands. 


24.  The  Annunciation. 

26.  The  Visitation. 

27.  The  Nativity. 

28.  The  Circumcision. 

29.  The  Adoration  of  the  Magi. 

30.  The  Flight  into  Egypt. 

31.  The  Massacre  of  the  Innocents. 

32.  Christ  disputing  with  the  Doc- 
tors. 

33.  The  Baptism  of  Christ. 

34.  The  Temptation  in  the  Desert. 

35.  The  Marriage  at  Cana. 

36.  Christ  and  the  Woman  of  Sa- 
maria. 

37.  Christ  in  the  House  of  Simon. 

38.  The  Resurrection  of  Lazarus. 

39.  The  Entry  into  Jerusalem. 

40.  The  Buyers  and   Sellers  driven 
out  of  the  Temple. 


ENGRAVINGS. 


1717 


Engravings  on  Copper — continued. 

56.  Christ  bearing  the  Cross. 

57.  Christ  stripped  of  His  garments. 
(This  is  wanting  in  the  Dresden  series.) 

58.  Christ  nailed  to  the  Cross. 

60.  The  Taking  down  from  the  Cross. 
(This  is  wanting  in  the  Dresden  series.) 

61.  The  Entombment. 

62.  The  Descent  into  Limbo.    (This 
is  wanting  in  the  British  Museum  series.) 

63.  The  Resurrection. 

64.  The  Three  Maries  at  the  Tomb. 
Christ  appearing  to  Mary  Mag- 


65. 

dalen. 

66. 

67. 


Christ  appears  to  His  Disciples. 
The  .Supper  at  Emmaus. 


68.  The  Incredulity  of  St.  Thomas. 

69.  The  Ascension. 

70.  The  Descent  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

71.  [Is  not  in  this  set,  and  is  considered 
by  Mr.  Weigel  not  to  belong  to  the  series. 
It  represents  the  Mass  of  St.  Gregory.] 

72.  The  Last  Judgment.  (This  is  not 
in  the  British  Museum  series.) 

73.  Death.  With  two  lines  of  inscrip- 
tion beneath. 

It  will  be  seen  that  Nos.  21,  22,  23, 
25,  and  59  are  deficient,  but  on  the  other 
hand  it  has  three  which  are  wanting  in 
the  British  Museum,  and  two  which  are 
deficient  in  the  Dresden  collection. 


THE  MASTER   L.  Cz. 

THE  FLIGHT  INTO  EGYPT.     (Pass.  ii.  p.  289.) 
The  only  other  impressions  known  of  this  print  are  in  the  V'ienna  and  Berlin 
Museums. 

ANONYMOUS    ENGRAVINGS    ON    COPPER. 

THE  PASSION  OF  CHRIST.  Five  engravings  of  the  series 
described  by  Passavant,  vol.  ii.  p.  41-2,  and  Bartsch,  voL  vi.  p.  12. 

The  numbers  in  Passavant  are  : — 

18.  The  Flagellation  of  Christ. 

22''.  Christ  stripped  of  His  Garments. 

23.  The  Crucifixion. 

26\  Christ  appearing  to  Mary  Mag- 
dalen. 

These  were  unknown  to  Bartsch. 

The  Resurrection  of  Christ.  Bartsch, 
vi.  n.  26.     By  Bartsch  these  engravings 

JOB  AND  HIS  FRIENDS.  An  undescribed  piece  by  the  Master 
of  the  monogram  "S."  See  Passavant,  vol.  iii.  p.  47.  Job  is  seated  on 
the  left,  looking  towards  the  right.  He  is  naked,  except  for  a  cloth 
thrown  across  his  lap.  Behind  stands  his  wife,  and  a  little  to  the 
right  stands  the  Devil,  who  prepares  to  hit  him  with  a  large  club. 
Two  of  his  friends  stand  before  him  at  the  right  of  the  picture,  and 
two  faces  are  seen  behind  them.  In  the  background  a  town  is  repre- 
sented in  flames. 

SAINT  PAUL.  An  undescribed  print  with  monogram  "  fGI  ". 
The  saint  stands  in  the  centre,  turned  towards  the  left,  leaning  on  a 
large  sword;  over  his  head  is  an  ornamental  design  on  which  are 
seated  two  little  angels.  The  finials  of  the  ornament  are  cherub  heads. 
Size  2\  by  i ;. 

9  z 


are  ascribed  to  the  Master  of  the  Gothic 
letters,  "E.  S.,"  1466;  but  Passavant 
thinks  they  are  not  by  him.  No  com- 
plete series  of  them  is  known,  and  it  is 
uncertain  of  how  many  it  should  consist. 
Of  the  prints  described  above,  not  more 
than  two  or  three  examples  exist  in  any 
collections. 


i/iS  ENGRAVINGS. 

Anonymous  Engravings  on  Copper — continued. 

ST.  SERVATIUS.  By  the  Master  "  M."  See  Nagler,  "  Mono- 
grammisten  Lexicon,"  vol.  iv.  No.  1463,  and  Passavant,  vol.  iii.  p.  89, 
No.  6. 

AN  ORNAMENTAL  PIECE  OF  FOLIAGE  WITH  SIX 
BIRDS.  Engraved  by  a  Master  of  the  latter  end  of  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury; of  very  great  power  and  beauty,  and,  so  far  as  can  be  ascertained, 
quite  undescribed.    Size  4|-  by  2^^. 

CHRIST  CROWNED  WITH  THORNS.  Engraved  on  copper 
and  believed  to  belong  to  an  undescribed  series  of  the  Passion  by 
a  Dutch  engraver.  Christ  is  seated  in  the  centre,  at  the  foot  of  a 
column  ;  on  each  side  a  soldier,  who  presses  on  the  crown  with  a  stick  ; 
the  heads  of  two  soldiers  are  seen  behind.  The  engraving  is  coloured 
like  a  miniature,  and  is  taken  from  a  Dutch  MS.  book  of  prayers. 
Size  3  by  2. 

ST.  MICHAEL.  A  very  early  and  undescribed  Engraving  by 
a  goldsmith-engraver,  of  very  fine  design  and  execution.  It  repre- 
sents St.  Michael  the  Archangel,  standing  upright,  enveloped  in  an 
ample  robe.  His  flowing  hair  is  surmounted  by  a  chaplet  of  flowers, 
and  behind  this  is  an  aureole  of  rich  design.  The  one  hand  holds  a 
small  shield,  which  may  be  intended  for  the  sun,  at  the  sight  of  which 
a  host  of  demons  flee  all  around.  The  other  hand,  uplifted,  holds  a 
sword.  From  the  fact  that  the  sword  appears  in  the  engraving  to  be  in 
the  left  hand,  it  is  probable  that  it  was  not  intended  to  take  impressions 
from  the  plate.  It  is  most  likely  an  unique  impression,  and  is  of  great 
beauty  and  value.    Executed  about  1450-60. 

THE  PASSION  OF  CHRIST.  A  .series  of  twenty-six  Copper- 
plate Engravings  of  the  Flemish  School,  representing  the  passion  and 
death  of  Christ.  The  series  begins  with  "  The  Entry  into  Jerusalem," 
and  ends  with  "The  Last  Judgment."  It  was  probably  executed  from 
1470  to  1480,  if  not  earlier,  and  so  far  as  can  be  ascertained  it  is  quite 
undescribed.  Each  plate  is  surrounded  by  a  border  formed  of  three 
or  four  straight  lines.  The  size,  counting  from  the  innermost  of  these, 
is  2|-  by  li. 

THE  PASSION  OF  CHRIST.  A  scries  of  forty-five  Copper- 
plate Engravings,  representing  the  birth,  passion  and  sufferings  of 
Christ.  Probably  designed  and  engraved  by  Alart  Claaszen,  or  one 
of  his  scholars,  at  Utrecht,  about  1540.    Sm.  8vo. 

This  set  of  plates  appears  to  be  almost  unknown  to  print  collectors.  It  is  in  a 
Stamped  calf  binding  of  the  sixteenth  century,  witli  a  number  of  blank  leaves,  which 
the  original  possessor  has  filled  with  MS.  devotions. 


ENGRAVINGS.  17 19 

ISRAEL  VAN  MECKENEN. 

A  Monkey  tied  to  a  Stake  :  in  his  hand  he  holds  a  plant  which 
he  has  pulled  up  by  the  root.  This  fragment  in  all  probability  is  cut 
from  one  of  the  series  of  plates,  of  which  two  arc  described  by  Passavant, 
vol.  ii.  p.  197,  Nos.  253,  254.  But  the  plate  from  which  this  is  taken  is 
undescribed.  At  Dresden  are  a  number  of  similar  prints  representing 
animals,  said  to  be  intended  for  playing-cards. 

MARTIN  SCHONGAUER. 
Christ  BEARING  His  Cross.   B.  21. 

WENZEL  VON   OLMUTZ. 

The  Martyrdom  of  St.  Andrew.  Bartsch,  vol.  vi.  p.  239. 
No.  23. 

ALBRECHT  GLOCKENTON. 

The  Passion  of  Christ.  B.  vi.  2-13. 

Early  impressions  before  the  plates  were  retouched. 


ALBRECHT    DURER. 

ENGRAVINGS  ON  COPPER. 

(The  references  are  to  Bartsch,  "  Peintre-Graveur,"  vol.  vii.) 

Adam  and  Eve.    B.  i. 

The  Nativity.    B.  2. 

The  Passion  of  Christ.    B.  3-18. 

The  Man  of  Sorrows.    B.  20. 

The  Man  of  Sorrows.    B.  22. 

The  Crucifixion.    B.  24. 

Two  Angels  with  the  Sudarium.    B.  25. 

An  Angel  holding  the  Sudarium.    B.  26. 

The  Prodigal  Son.    B.  28. 

The  Virgin  and  St.  Anne.    B.  29. 

The  Virgin  crowned  with  Stars.    B.  31. 


I730  ENGRA  VINGS. 

ALBRECHT   IdXiVCE.^— continued. 

The  Virgin  crowned  with  Stars,  and  holding  a  Sceptre.     B.  32. 

The  Virgin  with  short  hair  tied  with  a  narrow  band.    B.  33. 

The  Virgin  seated  against  a  Tree.    B.  35. 

The  Virgin  suckhng  the  Infant  Jesus.    B.  36. 

The  Virgin  crowned  by  an  Angel.    B.  37. 

The  Virgin  with  the  Infant  in  swaddling  clothes.    B.  38. 
Brilliant  impression  with  broad  margin. 

The  Virgin  crowned  by  two  Angels.    B.  39. 

The  Virgin  seated  near  a  Wall.     B.  40. 

The  Virgin  with  a  Pear.    B.  41. 

The  Virgin  with  the  Monkey.     B.  42. 

The  Virgin  and  the  Butterfly.     B.  44. 

The  Five  Apostles.    B.  46-50. 

St.  Christopher.    B.  51. 

St.  Christopher.    B.  52. 

St.  George  on  Foot.    B.  53. 

St.  George  on  Horseback.     B.  54. 

St.  Sebastian  tied  to  a  Tree.     B.  55. 

St.  Sebastian  tied  to  a  Pillar.    B.  56. 

St.  Hubert  (called  also  St.  Eustace).     B.  57. 

St.  Anthony.    B.  58. 

St.  Jerome  in  his  Cell.    B.  60. 

St.  Jerome  in  the  Desert.     B.61. 

St.  Genevieve.    B.  63. 

The  Angels  with  Trumpets.    B.  (^6. 

The  Sorceress.    B.  67. 

Apollo  and  Diana.    B.  68. 

The  Satyr  and  his  Family.   B.  69. 

Five  Studies  of  Figures.    B.  70. 

The  Rape  of  Amymone.    B.  71. 

Pluto  and  Proserpine.    B.  72. 

The  Effects  of  Jealousy.    B.  73. 


ENGRAVINGS.  1721 

ALBRECHT  DXJKEll—cotitiimcd. 
"  Melencolia."    B.  74. 
The  Four  Naked  Women.    B.  75. 
Durer's  Dream.    B.  76. 
The  Great  Fortune.    B.  yy. 
The  Little  Fortune.    B.  78. 
Justice.    B.  79. 
The  Courier.    B.  80. 
The  Lady  on  Horseback.    B.  82. 
The  Peasant  and  his  Wife.    B.  83. 
The  Cook  and  his  Wife.    B.  84. 
The  Oriental  and  his  Wife.    B.  85. 
The  Three  Peasants.    B.  86. 
The  Standard-Bearer.    B.  87. 
The  Warriors.    B.  88. 

The  Peasant  and  his  Wife  going  to  Market.    B.  89. 
A  Peasant  and  Woman  Dancing.    B.  90. 
The  Bagpiper.    B.  91. 
"  Le  Violent."    B.  92. 
The  Offerings  of  Love.    B.  93. 
The  Lady  and  Gentleman  Walking.    B.  94. 
The  Monstrous  Hog.    B.  95. 
The  Little  Horse.    B.  96. 
The  Great  Horse.    B.  97. 
The  Knight  of  Death.    B.  98. 
The  Cannon.    B.  99. 

The  Coat  of  Arms  with  the  Cock.  B.  100. 
The  Coat  of  Arms  with  the  Skull.  B.  loi. 
The  Cardinal  Elector  of  Brandenburg.    B.  102. 

Another  Portrait  of  the  same.     B.  103. 

Duke  Frederick  of  Saxony.    B.  104. 
Portrait  of  Melanchthon.   B.  105. 


1722  ENGRAVINGS. 

ALBRECHT   T)\}^Y.K— continued. 
BiLIBALD  PiRCKHEYMER.     B.  I06. 

Portrait  of  Erasmus.    B.  107. 

ENGRAVINGS   ON   WOOD. 

Cain  and  Abel.   B.  i. 

Samson  Killing  the  Lion.   B.  2. 

The  Offerings  of  the  Magl    B.  3. 

The  Great  Passion.  B.  4-15.  Brilliant  proofs  before  the  letter- 
press at  the  back. 

The  Great  Passion.  The  title  to  the  Great  Passion,  with  the 
letterpress.    B.  4. 

Copy  of  the  title.    Heller,  p.  540,  No.  1112. 

The  Little  Passion.  B.  16-52.  Fine  impressions  before  the 
letterpress,  with  the  exception  of  the  title. 

Copy  of  the  title  to  the  Little  Passion. 

Enlarged    and    reversed    copy    of    the    same,    by   Nicolas 

Boldrini. 

The  Last  Supper.    B.  53.    Fine  proof 

Copy  of  the  same.    B.  53  A. 

The  Agony  in  the  Garden.    B.  54. 

Christ  on  the  Cross.  B.  55.  Quite  perfect,  with  the  poem, 
at  the  end  of  which  is  the  monogram  of  Diirer. 

The  Crucifixion.    B.  56. 

By  Passavant  it  is  pointed  out  that  this  print  was  engraved  for  the  Eichstadt 
Missal,  printed  at  Nuremberg  in  1517.  There  is  also  in  the  collection  an  impres- 
sion taken  from  the  Missal  printed  on  vellum.  It  was  afterwards  used  for  the  title 
of  vol.  iii.  of  the  Nuremberg  edition  of  Luther's  Bible,  1524.  See  Passavant,  vol. 
iii.  p.  160. 

The  Crucifixion.  B.  58.  First  state.  From  the  Mariette  collec- 
tion. 

The  same,  with  a  praj'er  in   German  on  both  sides  of  the 

cross, 

The  same,   without  the    prayer,   but  the    impression  much 

inferior,  and  evidently  later. 

The  same.    Copy  A.  with  the  Pelican. 

Calvary.    B.  59. 


ENGRAVINGS.  1723 

ALBRECHT  DIJR'EK— continued. 

The  Apocalypse.     B.  60-75.     The   impressions  are   of  mixed 
states. 

The  Life  ok  the  Virgin.    B.  76-95.    The  impressions  are  of 
mixed  states. 

SS.  Joachim  and  Anne.    B.  79  .\. 

The  Holy  Family.    B.  96. 

The  same.    B.  97. 

The  Virgin  seated  on  a  bank.    B.  98. 

The  Virgin  suckling  the  Infant  Jesus.    B.  99. 

The  Virgin  surrounded  by  Angels.    B.  loi. 

The  Virgin  sitting  in  a  vaulted  Room.    B.  100. 

The  Virgin  and  Child  with  a  Book.    B.  102. 

The  same.     Copy. 

St.  Christopher.    B.  103. 

The  same.    B.  104. 

The  same.    B.  105. 

St.  Coloman.     B.  106.     Second  impression. 
St.  Elias.    B.  107. 

SS.  Stephen,  Gregory,  and  Laurence.    B.  108. 
St.  Stephen  between  two  Bishops.     B.  109. 
St.  Francis  receiving  the  Stigmata.     B.  no. 

The  same,  in  brown  chiaroscuro. 

St.  George  killing  the  Dragon.    B.  hi. 

St.  John  and  St.  Jerome.    B.  112. 

St.  Jerome  in  a  Cave.    B.  113. 

St.  Jerome  in  his  Cell.    B.  114. 

St.  Jerome  in  the  Desert.     B.  115. 

The  Six  Patron  Saints  of  Austria.    Passavant,  p.  164,  116. 

The  Eight  Patron  Saints  of  Austria.    B.  116. 

Bartsch  does  not  notice  that  there  is  a  block  of  this  print  which  contains  only 
six  saints  (as  described  above),  and  that  two  others  were  afterwards  added,  the  block 
being  cut  and  lengthened  for  the  addition  of  SS.  Otto  and  Poppo  on  the  right. 

The  Sufferings  of  the  Ten  Thousand  Martyrs  of 
Nicomedia.    B.  117. 


1/24  ENGRAVINGS. 

ALBRECHT  V)\}ViY.^— continued. 

Three  Bishops,  full  length  figures.    B.  ii8. 

A  Saint  chastising  Himself.    B.  119. 

The  Martyrdom  of  St.  Catherine.    B.  120. 

St.  Mary  Magdalen  carried  up  to  Heaven  by  Angels.   B.  121. 

The  Holy  Trinity.    B.  122. 

The  Mass  of  St.  Gregory.    B.  123. 

The  Last  Judgment.    B.  124. 

The  same.     A  later  state  with  the  monogram." 

The  Beheading  of  St.  John  the  Baptist.  B.  125. 

Herodias  receiving  the  Head  of  St.  John  Baptist.     B.  126. 

"Ercules."    B.  127. 

Six  Men  Bathing.    B.  128. 

The  Column.    Two  plates.    B.  129. 

The  Man  on  Horseback.    B.  131. 

Death  showing  an  Hour-glass  to  a  Soldier.     B.  132. 

Quite  complete,  with  the  poem,  at  the  end  of  which  is  Diirer's  monogram,  not 
mentioned  by  Bartsch. 

The  Schoolmaster,  with  the  poem  beneath,  and  Diirer's  mono- 
gram at  the  end.     B.  133. 

The  Judgment  of  Paris.    B.  134. 

A  Man  kissing  a  Woman.    B.  135. 

The  Rhinoceros.    B.  136. 

Four  impressions,  i.  With  five  lines  and  a  half  of  inscription,  printed  with  a 
green  tint.  2.  With  five  lines  of  inscription.  3.  Without  inscription,  printed  with 
a  green  tint.  4.  Also  without  inscription,  but  as  the  margin  is  gone  it  may  be  the 
third  impression,  which  should  have  the  inscription  in  Flemish. 

There  is  also  in  the  collection  a  small  circular  print  of  the  Rhinoceros  engraved 
on  copper,  measuring  \->-^  in.  in  diameter.  It  does  not  appear  to  be  described  by 
either  liartsch  or  Passavant. 

The  Siege  OF  A  Town.    Two  pieces.    B.  137. 

The  Triumphal  Arch  of  the  Emperor  Maximilian. 
B.  138. 

This  splendid  work  is  entirely  complete,  the  whole  of  the  engravings  being  of 
the  first  edition.  Not  more  than  two  or  three  complete  sets  are  known  to  e.xist. 
There  are  in  all  ninety-two  separate  woodcuts. 


ENGRAVINGS.  1725 

ALBRECHT   TiiiR^R— continued. 

The  Triumphal  Chariot  of  the  Emperor  Maximilian. 
B.  139.  On  the  eighth  sheet  (H.)  is  the  colophon  :  Discr  ivaf^cn  ist 
zii  Nunnberg  crfnnde  gerissen  vnnd  gedruckt  diirch  Albreclitcn  Thiirer, 
inijar  M.D.XXll. 

The  same.    2nd  edition.    Excogitatiis  et   depicttis  est  Cnmis 


iste    Nureinbcrg(Z.      Impressus     vero    per    Albertiim    Dilrcr.      Anno 
M.D.XXIII. 

Six  Dedalian  Designs  for  Embroidery.  B.  140-5.  Proofs 
before  the  monogram.  Of  Nos.  140-3,  there  are  also  later  impres- 
sions with  the  monogram. 

Four  Cuts  for  Pfintzing's  "Art  of  Perspective."  B.  146-9. 
Proofs  before  the  letterpress. 

Hemispherium  Australe.    B.  150. 

Imagines  Cceli  Septentrionalis.    B.  151. 

The  same.    Another  impression  coloured.    From  the  Praun 


collection. 

The  same.    An  impression  on  blue  paper,  of  a  much  later 

date. 

Imagines  Cceli  Meridionalis.   B.  152.   From  the  Praun  collec- 
tion. 

The  same.     An  impression  on  blue  paper  of  much  later 


date. 

Portrait  of  the  Emperor  Maximilian.    B.  153. 

Another  portrait  of  Maximilian.    B.  1 54. 

Portrait  of  Ulric  Varnbuler.    B.  155. 

The  same,  in  brown  chiaro-scuro. 

The  same,  in  green  chiaro-scuro. 

Durer's  Portrait  of  Himself.    B.  156. 

The  same.    Second  state.     Below  the  verses  at  the  foot  is 

"  Getruckt  zu  Nuremberg  bey  Hans  Wolff  Glaser." 

The  same.    Second  state.    Below  the  verses  we  read  :  "  Ge- 
druckt zu  Nurnberg,  bey  Wolff  Drcchssell,  Forinsclincidcr." 

The  same.  Third  state.    With  date,  1527,  and  monogram. 

The  same.    Copy  A.  in  Bartsch. 

The  same.    Copy  B.  in  Bartsch. 

10  A 


1726  ENGRA  VINGS. 

ALBRECHT  DURER— (r(?«//«w^. 

Portrait  of  John,  Baron  von  Schwartzenberg.    B.  157. 

Arms  of  the  Beham  Family.    B.  159. 

Arms  of  Kress  of  Kressenstein.    B.  161. 

Arms  of  Nuremberg.    B.  162. 

Arms  of  Hector  Pomer,  Provost  of  St.  Laurence.     B.  163. 

Arms  of  Scheurl  and  Ginder.    B.  164. 

Arms  of  Laurence  Stauber.    B.  168. 

A  Shield  bearing  a  naked  man  who  holds  two  greyhounds  in 
a  leash.    B.  170. 

Adam  and  Eve.    B.  App.  i. 

Christ  crowned  with  Thorns.    B.  App.  4. 

Christ  before  the  People.     In  chiaro-scuro.     B.  App.  5. 

Christ  on  the  Cross,  with  the  Magdalen  at  the  foot.  B.  App.  6. 

The  Virgin  and  Dead  Christ.    B.  App.  7. 

Jesus  appearing  to  Mary  Magdalen.    B.  App.  8. 

The  Life  of  the  Virgin,  represented  in  thirteen  compartments 
on  one  block.     B.  App.  9. 

The  Holy  Family.    B.  App.  10. 

The  same.     B.  App.  10.     Copy  with  the  inscription  "Sanct 

Anna"   above,  and   beneath,    "  Gednukt  zji   Ni'miberg  dunk  Hans 
G laser  Bricffinalcr  aiiff  S.  Loj-enaai  Plats." 

The  same,  in  chiaro-scuro. 

St.  Anne,  the  Infant  Jesus,  and  the  Virgin.    B.  App.  u. 
Before  the  monogram. 

The  Holy  Family.    B.  App.  12. 

Virgin  and  Child.    B.  App.  13. 

The  same,  with  the  monogram  of  Diirer  added. 

The  Virgin,  half-length,  with  the  Infant  Jesus.     B.   App.    14. 
Before  the  monogram. 

The  Conversion  of  St.  Paul.    B.  App.  17. 

St.  Martin.    B.  App.  18. 

St.  Sebald.    B.  App.  19. 

B.  App.  21. 


ENGRAVINGS.  1727 

ALBRECHT   BiJKER—contumed. 
St.  Sebastian.    B.  App.  22. 
A  Bishop  with  Crosier.    B.  App.  23. 
St.  Barbara.    B.  App.  24. 
St.  Catherine.    B.  App.  25. 
Head  of  Christ  crowned  with  Thorns.    B.  App.  26. 

The    same,   re-cngravcd   and    printed    in   chiaro-scuro.      B. 

App.  27. 

Vignette.    B.  App.  28. 

The  Holy  Trinity.    B.  App.  29. 

Border  to  Bartholom^US  Anglicus  de  rerum  proprietatibus. 
B.  App.  30. 

The  Emperor  Maximilian  hearing  Mass.    B.  App.  31. 

The  Emperor  Maximilian  adoring  God  the  Father.  B. 
App.  32. 

An  Allegory  of  Tyranny  warring  against  Wisdom,  Justice,  and 
Rehgion.    B.  App.  33. 

An  Allegorical  Subject  in  three  pieces.    B.  App.  34. 

The  Torch  Dance.    B.  App.  38. 

Four  Men  running.    B.  App.  39. 

A  Dragon.    B.  App.  40. 

Portrait  of  Charles  V.    B.  App.  41. 

Another  portrait  of  Charles  V.    B.  App.  42. 

A  small  circular  profile  portrait  of  Charles  V.,  looking  to  the 

right. 

Another  of  similar  character,  looking  to  the  left. 

Portrait  of  Frederick  III.,  Duke  of  Saxony.  B.  App.  43. 
Heller,  2169.  Passavant,  iii.  p.  225,  No.  343.  Both  Heller  and  Passa- 
vant  point  out  that  Bartsch  is  mistaken  in  calling  this  portrait  "  Guil- 
laume,  Electeur  de  Saxe,"  and  remark  that  he  had  seen  only  the 
impressions  printed  in  purple  and  reddish-brown  chiaro-scuro,  and 
was  unacquainted  with  this  impression  in  black  and  white,  which  has 
a  German  poem  at  the  side  headed  "  Friderich  der  drit,  Churfurst 
vnd  Hertzog  zu  Sachssen,"  &c.,  but  has  not  the  monogram  of  Durer  or 
the  date  1519,  both  of  which  appear  on  the  chiaro-scuro  impressions. 


1/28  ENGRAVINGS. 

ALBRECHT    T)\}^Y.Vi—coHtinmd. 

Neither  of  these  authorities,  however,  remark  that  the  chiaro-scuro 
impressions  are,  in  fact,  copies  from  the  print  with  the  poem  at  the 
side,  instead  of  being,  as  they  would  imply,  from  the  same  block. 

Arms  of  Ebner  and  Fuhrer.    B.  App.  45. 

Arms  of  Bilibald  Pirckheimer.    B.  App.  52. 

Arms  of  the  Pomer  Family.    B.  App.  53. 

Two  Shields  ;  that  on  the  right  bearing  the  arms  of  the  Beham 
family  ;  that  on  the  left  blank.    B.  App.  57. 

Arms  with  the  Motto,  "  Ultimus  ad  mortem  post  omnia  fata 
recursus."    B.  App.  58. 

The  Virgin,  with  the  Infant  in  swaddling  clothes.    Pass.  177. 

The  same,  early  proof  without  the  landscape. 

The  same,  reversed  copy  on  copper. 

The  same,  reversed  copy  on  copper  by  F.  Novelli. 

St.  Anne  and  the  Virgin  and  Child.  "  Gedruckt  zu  Niirn- 
herg  durck  Hans  Glaser  Brieffmaler  auff  S.  Lorentzen  Plats."  Pass. 
178. 

The  Virgin  of  the  Carthusians.    Pass.  180. 

The  Arms  of  the  Families  of  Scheurl  and  Tucher.  Pass. 
322.  There  is  a  second  but  quite  different  engraving  of  the  same  sub- 
ject in  the  collection. 

LUCAS  VAN  LEYDEN. 

The  Adoration  of  the  Magi.    B.  37. 
The  Passion  of  Christ.    B.  43-56. 

JEAN   DUVET. 
The  Apocalypse.    Robert-Dumesnil,  vol.  v.  p.  16,  Nos.  27-49. 

GIOVANNI   BAPTISTA   DEL   PORTO. 

Saint  Jerome  seated  on  a  Bank.  The  letters  I.  B.,  with  the 
bird,  are  engraved  on  a  tablet  on  the  right  of  the  print,  at  bottom,  and 
near  the  tablet  is  the  monogram  AA',  which  Bartsch  considers  to  be 


ENGRAVINGS.  1729 

GIOVANNI   BAPTISTA   DEL   YORTO— continued. 

the  mark  of  the  engraver  in  wood  by  whom  the  piece  was  executed, 
after  a  design  of  Del  Porto. — Bartsch,  xiii.  p.  249,  No.  6.  Ottley, 
page  SSS- 

LUCAS   CRANACH. 

(The  numbers  refer  to  "  Lucas  Cranach  des  Aeltern  Leben  und  Werke."     By 
Christian  Schuchardt.) 

ENGRAVINGS   ON   COPPER. 

Portraits  of  Friedrich  III.  and  ins  brother  Joiiann  I. 
S.  2. 

Portrait  of  Luther.    S.  8. 

WOODCUTS. 

The  Repose  in  Egypt.    S.  7.    Cut  at  the  bottom. 
The  Nativity.    S.  14. 

The  Passion;  the  set  imperfect. 

Christ  on  the  Mount  of  Olives.    S.  16. 

Christ  taken  Prisoner.    S.  17. 

Christ  before  Pilate.    S.  19. 

Christ  before  Herod.    S.  20. 

Christ  crowned  with  Thorns.    S.  22. 

EccE  Homo.    S.  23. 

Pilate  washing  his  Hands.    S.  24. 

Christ  bearing  the  Cross.    S.  25. 

Christ  crucified  between  the  two  Thieves.    S.  26. 

The  Descent  from  the  Cross.    S.  27. 

The  Resurrection.    S.  29. 

Christ  on  the  Cross.    S.  30. 

Christ  and  the  Woman  of  Samaria  at  the  Well.    S.  32. 

The  Martyrdoms  of  the  Apostles  ;   with 
inscription  at  the  bottom. 

Martyrdom  of  St.  Peter.    S.  34. 


17  lo  ENGRAVINGS. 

LUCAS  CRA'HAQll— continued. 

Martyrdom  of  St.  Andrew.    S.  35. 

St.  James  the  Major.    S.  36. 
„  St.  John  the  Evangelist.    S.  37. 

„  St.  Philip.     On  the  reverse  of  Np.  42.     S.  38. 

„  St.  Bartholomew.    S.  39. 

„  St.  Thomas.    On  the  reverse  of  No.  39.    S.  40. 

„  St.  Matthew.    On  the  reverse  of  No.  37.    S.  41. 

„  St.  James  the  Minor.    S.  42. 

„  St.  Simon.     On  the  reverse  of  No.  29.     S.  43. 

„  St.  Judas  Thaddeus.     On  the  reverse  of  No. 

35.     S.  44. 

Martyrdom  of  St.  Matthew.    S.  45. 

Christ,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  St.  Paul.  S.  46-59. 
This  fine  set  is  quite  perfect,  with  the  name  of  each  apostle  at  the  top, 
a  sentence  of  the  Creed  at  the  foot,  and  the  life  of  the  Saint  on  the 
right  hand,  all  in  letterpress.  Bartsch  does  not  describe  these  prints 
as  having  letterpress  on  the  right  margin,  nor  is  it  mentioned  by 
Schuchardt,  though  it  is  .spoken  of  by  Heller.  The  series  is  of  ex- 
treme rarity  in  this  perfect  condition. 

St.  Bernard  worshipping  the  Saviour.    S.  71. 

St.  Christopher.    S.  72. 

Martyrdom  of  St.  Erasmus.    S.  73. 

St.  Geor(;e  and  the  Dragon.  With  the  inscription  com- 
mencing "Ad  imaginem  divi  Georgii  Johannes  Stigelius,"  &c.     S.  74. 

St.  George  and  the  Dragon.    S.  75. 

St.  Jerome's  Penitence  in  the  Desert.    S.  yj. 

St.  Michael.    S.  82. 

The  Virgin  and  Child,  with  St.  Anne.    S.  83. 

St.  Barbara.  Cut  at  top,  the  title,  "  S.  Barbara,"  having  been 
removed.     S.  84. 

St.  Catherine.  Cut  at  the  top,  the  title,  "  S.  Katharina,"  having 
been  removed.     S.  85. 

Martyrdom  of  St.  Barbara.    S.  2,7. 

The  Assumption  of  the  Magdalen.    S.  88. 

The  Infant  Christ.    S.  90. 

Venus  and  Cupid.    S.  i  17. 


ENGRAVINGS.  173 1 

LUCAS   CRA^ ACU— conthnied. 

A  Knight  taking  a  bottle  from  Abigail,  who  is  seated  at  the  foot 
of  a  tree.     S.  121. 

A  Boy  on  a  Pony.    S.  123. 
A  Boar  Hunt.    S.  124. 

A  Lady  and  Gentleman  on  Horseback.     S.  127. 
Small  full-length  Portrait  of  Luther.    With  inscription. 
S.  159- 

Portrait  of  Christian  H.  of  Denmark.    S.  177. 

The  Creation.  On  the  reverse  of  the  title  to  the  set  of  Martyr- 
doms, S.  34,  &c. ;  but  very  doubtful  if  by  Lucas  Cranach. 

The  Last  Judgment.     A  small  print,  attributed  to  Cranach. 

St.  Paul.     On  the  reverse  of  No.  45. 

Small  full-length  Portrait  of  Philip  Melanchthon  ; 
with  the  inscription:  "Si  Deus  pro  nobis,  quis  contra  nos.'" 
Dated  1548.  This  is  the  companion  print  to  No.  159.  Not  described 
by  Schuchardt. 

Bust  of  Philip  Melanchthon.    Not  described. 

Full-length  Portrait  of  Philip  Melanchthon.  Dated 
1561.      Not  described. 

Bust  of  Philip  Melanchthon  holding  a  book.   Not  described- 
Head  of  Philip  Melanchthon,  in  an  oval  frame  with  cheru- 
bim.    Not  described.     After  Cranach,  whose   mark  appears  on  the 
left  within  the  oval. 

Portrait  of  John  Forster.  Bernard  Jobin  de  Strasbourg. 
Nagler's  "  Monogrammisten,"  iv.  p.  330,  where  the  master  is  men- 
tioned, but  not  this  print.  After  Lucas  Cranach,  whose  mark  is 
introduced  on  the  right,  with  the  date  1556. 

THE  MASTER   C.  P. 

Portrait  of  Johann  Friedrich  H.,  Duke  of  Saxony.  De- 
scribed with  Cranach's  works  by  Bartsch,  who  could  not  have  seen  the 
monogram.  See  Nagler's  "  Monogrammisten,"  vol.  ii.  p.  204,  No. 
530,  where  other  prints  by  the  master  are  described,  but  not  this  print. 

ANONYMOUS. 
Two  Monks,  one  a  Saint,  who  is  addressing  a  naked  boy  seated 
on  the  edge  of  a  piece  of  water  and  baling  out  the  water  with  a  spoon. 
Not  by  Cranach. 


1732  ENGRA  VINGS. 

HANS  BALDUNG  GRUN. 

The  numbers  refer  to  O.  Eisenmann,  in  Meyer's  "  Allgemeines  Kiinstler- 

Lexikon." 

Adam  and  Eve.    E.  i. 

The  Annunciation.     E.  $.     Not  mentioned  by  Bartsch. 

The  Nativity.     E.  6.     Not  mentioned  by  Bartsch. 

Man  of  Sorrows.    E.  12. 

Maries  bewailing.    E.  14. 

Angels  with  the  Body  of  Christ.    E.  16. 

Christ  giving  the  Benediction.    Dated  1519.    E.  17. 

Christ  giving  the  Benediction.    No  date.    E.  18. 

St.  Peter.    E.  19. 

St.  Andrew.     E.  20. 

St.  James  the  Major.    E.  21. 

St.  John  the  Evangelist.    E.  22. 

St.  Philip.    E.  23. 

St.  Bartholomew.    E.  24. 

St.  Matthew.    E.  25. 

St.  Thomas.    E.  26. 

St.  Simon.    E.  28. 

St.  Judas  Thaddeus.    E.  29. 

St.  John  the  Baptist.    E.  61. 

The  Conversion  of  St.  Paul.    E.  65. 

St.  Jerome  in  the  Desert.   E.  67. 

The  Magdalen.     E.  72.     Not  mentioned  by  Bartsch. 

The  Fates.    E.  136. 

SiLENUs.    E.  137. 

Two  Women  with  Children.    E.  138. 

A  Pilgrim.     E.  150.     This  is  a  duplicate  of  the  next,  and  is  on 
the  reverse,  which  has  the  inscription  "  Gerson  Cancellarii,"  &c. 

A  Title,  "  Joannis  Gersonis  opera,"  with  border  ;  on  the  reverse  the 
Pilgrim.     E.  150. 

A  Title,  "  Gerson  Parrhisiorum,"  &c.,  with  border ;  on  the  reverse 
the  Pilgrim.     E.  150. 


ENGRA  VINGS.  1733 


HANS  BURGKMAIR. 

Proof  impressions  of  thirty-four  of  the  wood  engravings,  illustrating 
the  History  of  Tevvrdannkh. 

The  Battle  of  Saint  Ulrich,  in  the  year  958.  Pass.  iii.  p.  278, 
No.  109.  Bartsch,  vii.  p.  286,  No.  74,  attributes  this  woodcut  to  Lucas 
Cranach.  At  the  top  is  the  inscription  "  S.  Ulrichs  Schlacmt, 
1520  ;"  beneath  is  an  inscription  of  seventeen  lines,  which  is  not  noticed 
by  the  above-named  authorities,  nor  is  it  alluded  to  in  Schuchardt's 
"  Lucas  Cranach  des  Aeltern  Leben  und  Werke."  It  reads  as  follows  : — 

Als  man  zehlt  955.  Jahr/  da  seynd  die  Ungern  mit  4.  Fiirsten  oder  Haupt- 
leuten/  grausamer  dann  kein  Tiirck/  niit  unzalbarer  menge  in  Teutschland  gezogen/ 
vnd  da  verhergt  vnd  verwlistet  das  gantze  Bayrland/  vnd  Schwaben/  bisz  an  die 
Thonaw  vnnd  Yler/  da  keiner  Wiirdigkeit  oder  Geschlecht/  Alter  vnd  Jugendt 
verschont/  sonder  alles  mit  grimm  vnnd  zorn  erwiirgt  vnd  verfolgt  haben  bisz  in 
Todt.  Die  Statt  Augspurg  beliigert/  daselben  S.  Afra  Gottshausz  vnnd  Jacober 
Vorstatt/  ausserhalb  der  Statt  gelegen/  verbriinnt.  Da  isl  S.  Ulrich/ zu  rettung  der 
Statt  mit  seinein  Kriegsvolck  vnnd  andachtigem  Gebet  sitzend  auff  eincm  Rosz  ohn 
Harnisch/  in  Alb  vnnd  Stol/  den  Ungern  enlgegen  zogen/  da  auch  zu  ihm  koTnen 
Keyser  Otto  der  erst/  mit  Heerskraft't/  mit  vielen  Fiirsten  vnnd  Herren/  Daselb  in 
gar  grossem  Fechten  vnd  .Streit/  hat  S.  Ulrich  vmb  Gott  erworben  den  Sig  wider 
die  Feind/  Und  zu  einem  VVahrreichen  ist  ihm  sichtbarlich  darbraclit  von  eim 
Engel  Gottes  vom  Himmel  ein  Creutz/  welches  in  seinem  Gottshausz  noch  vor- 
handen.  Nach  solchem  seynd  die  Ungern  sampt  einem  der  Hauptleut  zu  Todt 
geschlagen/  vil  in  der  flucht  im  Lech  vnnd  Thonaw  ertruncken/  auch  seynd  da 
gefangen  worden  die  andere  drey  Fiirsten  vnnd  Oberste  Hauptleut  mit  vil  andern 
Ungern  gen  Regenspurg  gefuhrt/  vnd  an  den  Galge  gehengckt  worden.  In  disem 
Streit  ist  Hertzog  Conradt  von  Worms  erschlossen  worden  mit  eim  pfeyl/  der  desz 
Keysers  Otto  Tochterman  war/  Nachmals  S.  Ulrichs  Bruder  Diebaldus/  ein  Graue 
zu  Kyburg/  vnd  Reginbaldus  ein  Herzog  zu  Schwaben/  S.  Ulrichs  Schwester  Sohn 
erschlagen  worden/  mit  vil  anderm  Christlichem  Volck.  Die  Schlacht  ist  geschehen 
dem  10.     August!/  an  S.  Lorentzen  tag   im  obgeschritenen  Jahr/  &c. 

Proof  impressions  of  thirty-four  of  the  engravings  in  the  "Weiss 
Konig." 

In  the  edition  printed  at  Vienna  in  1775,  these  prints  are  numbered  respec- 
tively :  7,8,  30,43,44,45,48,  50,  59,73.80,85,89,  103,  111,117,  121,  122,  128,145 
(this  plate  is  entirely  re-engraved  for  the  edition  of  1775),  154,  15S,  160,  161,  169, 
182,  186,  187,  192,  194,  200,  202,  220,  221. 

From  the  Enschede  collection. 


BARTHEL  BEHAM. 

Portrait  of  the  Emperor  Charles  V.   aet.  svae.  xxxi.    Ann. 
M.D.XXXI.     B.  viii.  60. 

Portrait   of  the   Emperor  Ferdinand.    AET.  SVE.   XXIX.    Ann. 
M.D.XXXI.   B.  viii.  61. 

10  B 


1734  ENGRA  VINGS. 

MATTHIAS  GERON  VON  LAUINGEN. 

A  series  of  forty-eight  most  rare  and  beautiful  wood-engravings,  by 
this  little-known  artist,  the  greater  number  of  them  entirely  undescribed. 

This  remarkable  collection  is  in  a  folio  volume  in  the  original  black 
morocco  binding,  with  the  date  of  1637  impressed  on  the  side. 

Bartsch  did  not  even  know  the  name  of  the  artist,  but  places  him 
among  "les  maitres  inconnus,"  and  gives  a  list  of  only  five  pieces  from 
the  Apocalypse,  saying,  "  Nous  ignorons  le  nombre  veritable  de  cette 
suite  puisque  nous  n'en  avons  vu  que  ces  cinq  pieces." 

Nagler,  in  his  "  Monogrammisten,"  says  that  Passavant  mentions 
a  series  of  fifty-four  pieces  as  existing  at  Wolft'enbuttel,  but  he  gives 
no  list  of  them,  and  says  that  he  himself  knew  but  seven.  It  is  worthy 
of  remark  that  one  of  the  prints  described  below  is  four  years  earlier 
than  any  date  given  by  Nagler. 

1.  Christ  driving  the  Buyers  and  Sellers  out  of  the  Temple.  No  date  or  mono- 
gram. 

2.  An  Allegory.  A  man  bestriding  a  brook,  with  flames  issuing  from  his  mouth. 
Monogram  in  the  right  bottnm  corner. 

3.  A  Satire  on  the  Church  of  Rome.  To  the  right,  a  nude  figure  of  a  winged 
woman  holding  forth  a  crown  and  jev.els.     Monogram  on  the  left  at  the  foot. 

4.  On  a  raised  dais  sit  four  rulers  or  kings  ;  above  them  five  figures  of  children. 
Monogram  in  right  bottom  corner,  with  date  1536.  (The  earliest  mentioned  by 
Nagler  is  1540.) 

5.  An  Allegoi"y  or  Satire.  In  the  foreground,  a  man  on  horseback,  followed  by 
a  noble  on  a  mule.  In  the  background,  Christ  sending  forth  His  disciples.  Mono- 
gram at  the  bottom  right  corner. 

6.  The  Pope,  Bishops,  and  Emperor,  in  stomi-tossed  Ships.  Monogram  in  the 
right  top  corner ;  date  1545,  in  the  left  top  corner. 

7.  Bishops,  Cardinals,  Ladies,  Rulers,  &c.,  seated  round  a  Table,  playing  at 
Cards  and  Backgammon.     Monogram  in  the  right  corner,  at  the  foot ;  date  1546. 

8.  The  Emperor,  on  horseback,  pierces  the  prostrate  Pope  with  a  spear.  Mono- 
gram to  the  left,  date  1548. 

9.  The  Sullan  and  Ecclesiastics  prostrated  by  an  Old  Man,  over  whose  head 
two  Angels  hold  a  Crown.     Monogram  in  the  left  corner,  at  the  foot  ;  no  date. 

10.  A  Bear  wearing  a  Turban,  and  a  Lion  Crowned,  attack  some  Country  Folk. 
No  date  or  monogram. 

11.  The  Pope  and  Sultan  in  a  Car,  which  is  dragged  different  ways  by  a  Bear, 
a  Lion,  and  Griffins.    Monogram  in  the  left  corner,  at  the  foot. 

12.  In  the  foreground,  a  Turk  holds  a  Woman  by  the  hair  as  he  strikes  her 
with  a  sword  ;  behind,  the  Pope  and  another  drive  a  crowd  with  spear  and  sword. 
No  date  or  monogram. 

13.  A  Church  shattered  to  pieces  by  a  Book  of  the  Gospels,  which  falls  upon 
it.     Monogram  on  the  left  at  the  foot. 

14.  The  Pope  and  other  Ecclesiastics  in  a  Caldron  ;  two  monsters  and  another 
figure,  which  has  the  papal  tiara  slung  over  its  shoulder,  blow  and  feed  the  fire. 
Monogram  in  the  left  bottom  corner  ;  date  1546. 

15.  A  Ship,  in  which  sits  Christ  preaching  to  His  Disciples  ;  above,  are  smaller 
ships  containing  the  Pope  and  the  Sultan.     Monogram  above  ;  date  1 548. 


ENGRA  VTNGS.  1735 

MATTHIAS  GERON  VON  hK\5mGEii— continued. 

16.  The  Descent  of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  the  Apostles  and  the  Virfjin  Mary. 
Devils  drive  oft"  the  Pope  and  clergy.  Monogram  and  date,  1546,  in  the  right 
corner  at  the  foot. 

17.  At  the  foot,  the  Pope,  &c.,  in  Hell ;  over  them  Moses  and  other  holy  men  ; 
at  the  top,  the  Trinity.     No  monogram  or  date. 

18.  The  Pope,  tlie  Devil,  and  Monks  selling  Indulgences.  Monogram  at  tlic 
foot,  in  the  left  corner  ;  date  1546,  at  the  top,  in  the  opposite  corner. 

19.  The  Pope  and  Ecclesiastics  in  Hell;  the  Devil  tearing  to  bits  their  Indul- 
gences.    Monogram  at  the  top,  to  the  right. 

20.  The  Pope  and  Sultan  advance  against  one  another  ;  above,  Christ  preaches 
the  Gospel  to  a  crowd  of  people.     No  monogram  or  date. 

21.  Two  Devils  on  Thrones  ;  two  Devils  winged  hold  over  their  heads  the  papal 
tiara  and  the  Sultan's  turban.     No  date  or  monogram. 

22.  The  Holy  Trinity  in  a  circular  compartment  ;  above,  below,  and  at  the 
sides,  are  represented  the  Apostles  and  Prophets. 

23.  St.  John's  Vision  of  the  Seven  Golden  Candlesticks.  Monogram  and  date, 
1544,  in  the  bottom  corner,  to  the  right. 

24.  St.  John  sees  the  Almighty  on  His  Throne,  surrounded  by  seven  Angels  with 
trumpets,  while  the  eighth  pours  forth  a  vial  on  the  earth.     No  monogram  or  date. 

25.  The  Vision  of  the  Sealed  Book  and  the  Beast  full  of  Eyes  [Rev.  iv.].  Mono- 
gram in  the  bottom  corner,  to  the  right  ;  date  1 546. 

26.  The  Vision  of  the  P'our  Horsemen.  Monogram  in  the  bottom  corner,  to 
the  right  ;  date  •r5'4"6',  in  the  opposite  corner. 

27.  The  Opening  of  the  Fifth  Seal.     Monogram  at  foot,  in  centre  ;  date  1546. 

28.  The  Wicked  calling  on  the  Rocks  and  Trees  to  fall  upon  them.  No  mono- 
gram or  date. 

29.  The  Angels  holding  back  the  Winds.  Monogram  in  centre  ;  date  1546,  in 
the  left  bottom  corner. 

30.  The  Angel  proclaiming  Woe  upon  the  Earth.  Monogram  on  the  vault,  in 
the  left  corner  ;  no  date. 

31.  The  First  Angel  blows  the  Trumpet.     No  date  or  monogram. 

32.  The  Third  Angel  blows  the  Trumpet.  Date  1547,  and  monogram,  at  the 
top,  in  the  left  corner. 

33.  The  Fifth  Angel  blows  his  Trumpet.  Date  1 547,  and  monogram,  in  the 
left  corner,  at  the  foot. 

34.  The  Loosing  of  the  Four  Angels.  Date  1553,  on  a  cloud  towards  the  top  ; 
monogram  near  the  bottom  on  the  right. 

35.  St.  John  eating  the  Book.  Date  •r5'4'6-,  towards  the  foot,  on  the  right ; 
monogram  in  the  left  corner,  at  foot.  - 

36.  Murder  of  the  Two  Witnesses  by  the  Beast.     No  date  or  monogram. 

37.  The  Woman  standing  on  the  Moon.  Monogram  in  the  left  corner,  at  the 
foot;  date  1547. 

38.  The  Beast  with  many  Heads.     Monogram  towards  the  left,  at  the  foot. 

39.  The  Lamb  on  Mount  Zion.     No  date  or  monogram. 

40.  The  Angels  with  the  Sickles.     No  date  or  monogram. 

41.  The  Opening  of  the  Seven  Vials.  Date  1547  ;  monogram  in  the  left  corner, 
at  the  foot. 

42.  The  Great  Whore  of  Babylon.    Monogram  at  the  foot. 

43.  Lamentation  of  the  Merchants  at  the  Destruction  of  Babylon.  Monogram 
at  the  top,  in  the  right  comer ;  date  1547,  in  the  opposite  corner. 

44.  Destruction  of  the  Seven-headed  Beast.     No  date  or  monogram. 


1736  ENGRAVINGS. 

MATTHIAS  GERON  VON  LAUINGEN— f^;///«;/^rt'. 

45.  The  Destruction  of  the  Whore  of  Babylon  and  the  Dragon.  No  date  or 
monogram. 

46.  The  Devil  Chained.    Date  r5'4'6  ;  and  monogram  in  the  bottom  left  corner. 

47.  Destruction  of  the  False  Prophet.    No  date  or  monogram. 

48.  The  New  Jerusalem.  Date  1546  ;  the  figures  placed  wide  apart  at  the  foot ; 
monogram  in  the  left  corner  at  the  top. 

Both  Nagler  and  Passavant  assign  to  this  artist  the  designs  in  the  sumptuous 
edition  of  the  Augsburg  Missal,  printed  at  the  expense  of  the  Cardinal  Archbishop 
by  Sebald  Mayer,  at  Dilingen  in  1555  ;  and  this  would  seem  to  explain  the  extreme 
rarity  of  these  engravings  satirizing  the  Church  of  Rome,  as  the  artist,  if  he  had 
become  a  convert  to  the  Roman  Catholic  faith,  would,  no  doubt,  have  used  all  means 
in  his  power  to  suppress  them.  Certain  it  is,  that  with  the  exception  of  the  collec- 
tion at  Wolffenbiittel,  there  appears  to  be  no  other  series  known  so  extensive  as  this. 
The  possessor  of  the  volume,  who  had  it  bound  in  1637,  supposed  the  designs  to  be 
by  Mathias  Griinewald;  but  Nagler  says  that  they  could  not  be  by  him,  as  he  died 
in  1530. 

ENGRAVINGS   ON   COPPER. 
JOBST  AMMAN. 

Portrait  of  Hans  Sachs.  1576.  First  state,  before  the  cross- 
hatching  on  the  background. 

LEONARD  GAULTIER. 

A  set  of  108  engravings,  illustrating  the  Life  of  Christ  and  the 
History  of  the  New  Testament.     [1576-77.] 

HENDRIK  GOLTZIUS. 

The  Pas.sion  OF  Christ,  1596-8.  Bartsch,  iii.  27-38. 4to.  Mounted 

ill  a  folio  volume.    BL.  M. 

Military  Costumes.  Engraved  by  Jan  de  Gheyn  after  Hendrik 
Goltzius.    The  set  of  twelve  plates. 

CRISPYN  DE  PASSE. 

Portrait  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  Full-length,  holding  the  globe 
and  sceptre.  A  magnificent  impression,  believed  to  be  the  finest 
known. 

ANTHONY  WIERIX. 
Portrait  of  Sir  Thomas  More. 
Portrait  of  Henry  IV.  of  France. 


ENGRAVINGS.  lyn 

ANTHONY  V^l^ERlX—conimned. 

Portrait  of  Isabella  Clara  Eugenia,  "  Hisp.  Infans.,"  in 
an  oval,  with  hat  and  ostrich  feather. 

Portrait  of  Isabella  of  Austria,  "  Philippi  II.,  &c.,  fiUa." 

WILLIAM  FAITHORNE. 

Portrait  of  Queen  Henrietta  Maria.  Fine  proof  before 
letters.     From  the  Mariette  collection. 

Portrait  of  Catherine  of  Braganza,  Queen  of  Charles  II. 

WENZEL  HOLLAR. 

"Byrsa  LondinensiS,  vulgo  the  Royal  Exchange  of  London." 
1644. 

Portrait  of  Albrecht  Durer. 

The  Seasons.    The  set  of  four  full-length  female  figures. 

The  Seasons.     The  set  of  four  half-length  female  figures. 

The  Dance  of  Death.  Engraved  from  Holbein's  designs.  A 
set  of  thirty  engravings.  Fine  early  impressions  before  the  borders 
were  added.  At  the  end  are  two  etchings  by  Hollar  after  Holbein  : 
one  of  them  is  a  different  rendering  of  Death  and  the  Pope  from  that 
in  the  series ;  the  other  a  similar  subject.  Bound  in  a  sm.  sqr.  8vo. 
volume.    BL.  M. 

LUCAS  KILIAN. 

Portrait  of  Albrecht  Durer. 

ANONYMOUS. 

Mulled  Sack.  A  full-length  portrait  of  Mulled  Sack,  the  cele- 
brated chimney-sweeper  of  James  I.'s  time.  Are  to  be  sold  by  Compton 
Holland  over  against  the  Exchange.    [16 18.] 

Beneath  are  eight  verses.  A  fine  impression  of  a  print  of  extreme 
rarity  and  curiosity,  from  the  Daniel  collection. 

WILLIAM   HOGARTH. 

HOGARTH'S  WORKS,  preceded  by  a  series  of  engraved  por- 
traits of  the  Artist : — 

1.  Portrait  of  Hogarth  at  his  easel,  painted  and  engraved  by 
himself.    1764. 

2.  With  his  dog.     "Se  ip.sc  pinxit  &  sculpsit."    1749. 


1738  ENGRAVINGS. 

WILLIAM  WOGAWIU— continued. 

3.  Portrait  of  Hogarth.     Engraved  by  B.  Smith.     1794. 
Etching. 

4.  Engraved  by  B.  Smith.    1794.    Finished  impression. 

5.  Mezzotint.    C.  Townley,  fecit.    1781. 

6.  By  Worhdge,  engraved  by  Priscott. 

7.  Etched  by  S.  Ireland. 

Lithograph  after  Harding.    1825. 

Bust  with  dog. 

Marriage-A-la-mode. 

1.  First  state,  before  the  shadow  on  the  building  which  is 
seen  through  the  window. 

2.  Before  the  alteration  of  the  lock  of  hair  on  the  lady's 

forehead. 

3.  Before  the    bow  at   the  nobleman's  neck  was  en- 
larged. 

4.  Before  the  cross-hatching  on  the  bed  curtains. 

5.  Before  the  lines  on  the  counsellor's  leg. 

6.  With  the  shadows  in  the  right-hand  corner  strongly 

marked. 

2.  Marriage-a-la-mode.    Second  state. 

3.  The  Rake's  Progress. 

1.  First  state,  before  the  alteration  of  the  girl's  head. 

2.  With  the  word  "  Harlot  "  spelled  "  Harlot." 

3.  Before  the  insertion  of  Pontac's  portrait  in  the  frame 

at  the  left  corner. 

4.  With  shoeblack  stealing  the  rake's  cane. 

5.  Before  the  alteration  of  the  bridegroom's  right  leg. 

6.  Before  the  alteration   of  Lord  Cogg's  face  and  the 

interlining  of  the  gaming-table. 

7.  Without  cross-hatching  on  the  wings  over  the  tester, 

alteration  of  the  drapery  near  the  stool,  &c. 

8.  Before  the  alteration  of  the  head  of  the  woman  with 


the  fan,  &c. 

4.  The  Rake's  Progress.    Second  state. 

5.  The  Harlot's  Progress. 

1.  First  state,  before  the  word  "  London"  was  added  to  the 

letter,  and  the  cross  placed  at  the  bottom  margin. 

2.  Before  the  cross-hatching  on  the  drapery,  &c. 

3. Before  the  cross-hatching  on  the  neck. 

4.  With  the  holes  in  the  roof 


ENGRAVINGS.  1739 

WILLIAM  WOGh^TYi—contitmed. 

5.  The  Harlot's  Progress.     Witliout  the  name  of  "  Dr. 

Rock  "  on  the  paper. 

6.  Before   the    introduction    of    shadows   and    cross- 
hatching. 

6.  The  Harlot's  Progress.  Second  state.  This  differs  very 
little,  if  anything,  from  the  first  state,  except  that  it  has  the  cross  in 
the  bottom  margin,  and  the  impressions  are  not  quite  so  brilliant. 
The  state  described  in  Nichols's  "  Hogarth "  as  the  second  must  in 
fact  be  the  third. 

7.  The  Four  Times  of  the  Day. 

1.  Before  the  darkening  of  the  carrots. 

2.  Before  the  left  cuff  of  the  beau  was  made  black. 

3.  The  man's  hands  printed  in  blue,  and  before  the  bow  on 

the  woman's  breast  was  made  black. 

4.  In  the  ordinary  state. 

8.  Industry  and  Idleness. 

1.  Before  the   insertion  of    "Plate  i."  and   shadow  at   the 

bottom  of  the  foremost  part  of  the  right-hand  loom. 

2.  The  cord  which  suspends  the  lamp  hardly  visible. 

3.  Before  the  cross-lines  over  the  inscriptions  on  the  tomb- 

stones. 

4.  Before  the  lines  on  the  master's  cuff. 

5.  Before  the  faces  were  darkened. 

6.  The  inscription  "  West  and  Goodchild  "  on  the  sign. 

7.  Before  the  cross-hatching  of  the  coverlid. 

8.  Before  the  cross-hatching  at  the  end  of  the  table-cloth. 

9.  Without  any  cross-hatching  on  the  woman's  apron. 

10.  Without  cross-hatching  on  the  skirt  of  the  Idle  Prentice's 

coat. 

1 1.  No  cross-hatching  on  the  coffin. 

12.  Before  the  coachman's  arm  was  darkened. 

Plates  6  and  12  are  in  the  second  state. 

9.  Industry  and  Idleness.  Second  state,  except  plates  6  and 
12,  which  are  in  the  third  state. 

10.  The  Election. 

1.  First  state,  with  the  seven  lemons  and  four  hats,  also  the 

second  state. 

2.  Second  state.    The  lion's  teeth  being  removed. 

3.  Second  state.    "  Milicia  Bill"  on  the  voter's  coat. 

4.  Second  state,  with  shadow  on  the  sundial. 


1740  ENGRAVINGS. 

WILLIAM  HOGARTH— f^«//««r^. 

I  r.  The  Enraged  Musician.   First  state,  the  horse's  head  white, 

and  no  lines  on  the  play-bill. 

12.  The  same.    Second  state. 

13.  The   Distressed   Poet.     First  state,  with  Pope  thrashing 

Curll. 

14.  The  same,  with  map  of  the  mines  of  Peru  inserted,  and  the 
lines  from  the  "  Dunciad  "  erased. 

15.  The  Strolling  Actresses.  First  state,  with  "M^  Bilk. 
village,"  on  the  play-bill. 

16.  The  same.  Second  state,  with  only  one  hole  in  the  roof;  the 
Queen's  shoe  altered  from  white  to  black,  &c. 

17.  The  March  to  Finchley.  First  state.  Dated  Dec.  30th, 
and  Dedication  to  the  King  of  Prujia. 

1 8.  The  same.  Second  state.  Dated  Dec.  31,  but  the  spelling  of 
Prujia  retained. 

19.  Southwark  Fair. 

20.  The  Gate  of  Calais. 

21.  The  Cockpit. 

22.  A  Midnight  Modern  Conversation.    First  state. 

23.  The  same.    Printed  in  a  red  tint. 

24.  The  Four  Stages  of  Cruelty.     Plates  i.-iv. 

25.  Beer  Street.  First  state,  with  the  blacksmith  lifting  up  a 
Frenchman. 

26.  The  same.    Second  state. 

27.  Gin  Lane.  The  artist's  original  drawing  in  pencil  and  red 
chalk.  It  is  the  reverse  way  of  the  engraving,  and  exhibits  a  great 
number  of  curious  variations  from  the  engraved  plate.  The  artist's 
own  initials  are  on  the  coffin. 

28.  The  same.     The  engraving. 

29.  The  Bench.     Second  state. 

30.  The  Stage  Coach.     Second  state. 

31.  The  Bruiser.  First  state.  Three  of  the  knots  on  the  club 
left  white,  and  the  "  modern  Hercules  "  in  the  inscription. 


ENGRAVINGS.  1741* 

WILLIAM  HOGAKTK— continued. 

32.  The  Bruiser.    Second  state.    The  knots  shaded,  but  without 
any  alteration  on  the  palette.    Unknown  to  Nichols. 

33.  The  same.    Third  state.    The  political  print  on  the  palette. 

34.  The  same.    Fourth  state.    "N.B."and  "Infamous"  added  on 
the  club. 

35.  The  Five  Orders  of  Periwics.     First  state,  without  the 
insertion  of  the  "  e  "  in  "  Advertisment." 

36.  The  same.    Second  state. 

37.  The  Sleeping  Congregation.  First  state,  before  the  words 
"  et  mon  droit." 

38.  The  same.   Second  state,  with  the  words  "et  mon  droit"  added, 
and  the  pipe  taken  out  of  the  angel's  mouth. 

39.  The  same.    Third  state.    Retouched  and  improved,  1762. 

40.  Paul  before  Felix.    First  state.    "  Designed  and  scratched 
in  the  true  Dutch  taste." 

41.  The  same.     First  state,  with  inscription,  "And  as  he  reasoned 
of  righteousness,  &c.",  also  "and  published  by  him  Feb^  the  5.  1752." 

42.  The  same.   Second  state,  undescribed  by  Nichols,  with  inscrip- 
tion, "and  published  as  the  act  directs  Feb.  5.  1752." 

43.  The  same.     Engraved  by  Luke  Sullivan.    First  state,  with  in- 
scription, "  And  as  he  reasoned  &c." 

44.  Moses  brought  to  Pharaoh's  Daughter.    First  state. 
"  Publish'd  February  5  1752  according  to  Act  of  Parliament." 

45.  The  same.    Third  state.    "  Published  as  the  act  directs." 

46.  Analysis  of  Beauty. 

1.  Second  state. 

2.  First  state,  before  the  two  figures  on  the  left  were  altered, 

and  the  vacant  chair  filled. 

47.  The  same.    Both  plates  in  the  second  state. 

48.  The  Times.    Second  state,  with  Mr.  Pitt  on  stilts. 

49.  The  same.    Plate  2. 

10  B* 


1742*  ENGRAVINGS. 

WILLIAM  UOGKR'Yn—cotitiniied. 

50.  Time  Smoking  a  Picture.    First  state,  before  the  word 
"  Crates  "  on  upper  part  of  the  frame. 

51.  The  same.    Second  state. 

52.  HUDIBRAS. 

I.  First  state.    "  Printed,  &c.  .  .  .  by  P.  Overton  ...  &  I. 
Cooper." 
Without  "  Hogarth  inven.  et  sculp." 

3-  - 


4 
S 
6 

7 
8. 

9 

10. 
II 
12 


—  With  address  of  Overton  and  Cooper. 

—  Before  the  shadows  were  darkened. 

—  With  address  of  Overton  and  Cooper. 

—  Before  "  Wm.  Hogarth,  Inven.  et  Sculp." 

—  Before  the  plate  was  numbered. 

—  Without  "  Hogarth  inven.  et  sculp." 

—  With  the  name  of  Overton  as  publisher. 

—  Without  "  Hogarth  Inven.  et  sculp." 

—  Before  "  Down  with  the  rumps  "  on  the  scroll. 

—  Before  the  cross-hatching  on  the  sign-board,  timber, 
and  other  places. 

53.  HUDIBRAS.    Second  states  of  plates  3,  S,  6,  and  11. 

54.  France. 

55.  England. 

56.  Before. 

57.  After. 

58.  The  Beggar's  Opera. 

59.  The  same.    Printed  for  John  Bowles. 

60.  Henry  VIII.  and  Anne   Boleyn.    First  state,  with   the 
verses  in  three  compartments. 

61.  The  Lottery. 

62.  An  Emblematic  Print  of  the  South  Sea. 

63.  Credulity,  Superstition  and    Fanaticism.    The    first 
state,  re-engraved  by  Ireland.    1795. 

64.  The  Plate  as  altered  by  Hogarth.    1762. 

65.  Don  Quixote,  Plates  I.-VIIL 

66.  Beaver's  Military  Punishments.    Twelve  plates.    (See 
Ireland's  Illustrations,  v.  i.  p.  48.) 


ENGRAVINGS.  I743» 

WILLIAM  nOGAKYH— continued. 
67.  Receipt  for  the  "  Election  "  prints. 
6^.  Subscription  Ticket  for  "  The  March  to  Finchley." 

69.  Characters  and  Caricatures.     Subscription  ticket  for 
"  Marriage  a  la  Mode." 

70.  The  same.    A  later  state. 

71.  Rehearsal  of  the  Oratorio  of  Judith. 

72.  The  Laughing  Audience.   After  the  inscription  was  cut  off. 
yT,.  A  Just  View  of  the  British  Stage. 

74.  The  Company  of  Undertakers. 

75.  Cunicularii.    a  satire  on  Mary  Tofts,  the  rabbit-breeder. 

76.  Scholars   at   a    Lecture.    First  state,  without  "Datur 
vacuum." 

yy.  The  same.    Second  state. 

78.  Arms  of  Matthew  Dixon.    Undescribed  by  Nichols. 

79.  Book-plate  of  W.  Hogarth. 

80.  The  Farmer's  Return. 

81.  Tiara  Patriarch  alts  Gr^ca. 

82.  Masquerades  and  Operas,  Burlington  Gate. 

83.  Columbus  breaking  the  Egg.    First  state,  with  receipt. 

84.  Receipt  for  "  Pharaoh's  Daughter  "  and  "  St.  Paul." 
8$.  Simon,  Lord  Lovat.    First  state,  before  the  price. 

86.  The  same.    Second  state. 

87.  John  Wilkes. 

88.  Mr.  Huggins. 

89.  Sarah  Malcolm. 

90.  The  same,  with  the  clergyman. 

91.  Elizabeth  Adams. 

92.  Daniel  Lock. 


INDEX    AND    CLASSIFICATION. 


Abaco.   v.  Uberti. 

Acta  Apostolorum  e  Cod.  Laudiano. 

V.  Hearne. 
ACTES  DES  Apotres.  1541.    V.  Myst^re. 
Adam  de  Domerham.   Historia  Glasto- 

niensis.  v.  Hearne. 
Adrian's  Prognostication,  1520.     Frag- 
ment of.     V.  Fragments. 
./EsoP's  Fables.     Fragment  of  ed.  printed 

by  Pynson,     v.  Fragments. 
Africa. 

B.,  I.-  Algiers  Voyage.     1621. 

Cavazzi,  A.     Descrizione  di  Congo,  &c. 
1687. 

De  Bry.     Indian  Voyages,  Part  i,  &c. 

Haedo,  D.  de.   Topographia  de  Argel. 
1612. 

Jobson,  R.     The  Golden  Trade.     1623. 

Leon,  J.    Hist,  descr.  de  I'Afrique.  1 556. 

Pigafetta,F.  Relatione  di  Congo.  [1591.] 

Report  of  Congo.     1597. 

Marees,    P.    de.      Beschryvinghe    van 
Giinia.     1602. 

Robson.    News  from  Aleppo.    1628. 

S.,  J.  Adventures  of.  1670. 
Agnes,  St.,  Life  of.  v.  Pratt. 
Alchemy,    v.  Ripley,  G.    Compound  of 

Alchemy.     1591. 
Aldine  Editions. 

.(Eschylus.     1 5 18. 

jEsopus.     1505. 

Alciatus.    Emblemata.     1546. 

Aldus.  Rudimenta  Grammat.  Lat.  1506. 
V.  Appendix. 

Aristophanes.     1498. 

Aristoteles.     1495-8. 

Ausonius.     1517. 

Catullus,  Tibullus  et  Propertius.    1502. 

10 


Aldine  EDiriot;s—con/ini/fd. 

Catullus,  Tibullus  et  Propertius.    1515. 
Cicero.  De  Officiis.     1541. 

„     Epistote.         1502. 

,.  ,.  1540. 

„     Orationes.       1518. 
Curtius  Rufus,  Ouintus.     1520. 
Demosthenes.  Orationes.     1504. 
Epistote  Grsecas.     1499. 
Euripides.     1503. 

„     Hecuba.     1507. 
Gaza,  T.    Introd.  Grammat.,  &c.    1495. 
Gellius,  A.     Noctes  Atticffi.     1515. 
Herodotus.     1502. 
Hippocrates.     1526. 
Homerus.     1504. 
Horatius.      1501. 

„  1509- 

,,  1527. 

Justinus.       1522. 
Juvenalis.     1501. 

„  1501. 

1535- 
Livius.     1518-33. 
Lucanus.     1502. 
Lucretius.     1500. 

1515- 
Martialis.  1501. 
Musasus.     [1494.] 

1517- 
Oratores  Grseci.     15 13. 
Ovidius.    Opera.     1502-3. 
Pausanias.     15 16. 
Perottus,  N.    Cornucopia.    1499. 
Petrarca.     Opere.     1501. 
Philostratus.     1502. 
Plato.     15 13. 
Plautus.     1522. 
C 


1742 


INDEX. 


Aldine  "ETimoviS—cojitinued. 
Plinius.    EpistoliE.     1 508. 
Plutarchus.    Opuscula.    1509. 
Plutarchus.    Parallela.     15 19. 
Poetas  Christiani.     1504. 
Psalterium  Davidis.     1496. 
Quintus  Calaber.     \s.  ai\ 
Rhetores  Grsci.     150S-9. 
Sallust.     1 509. 
1521. 
Senecae  Tragedis.     1517. 
,,  ,.  1522. 

Sophoclis  Tragediae.     1502. 
Statius.     1 502. 

„        1519- 
Strabo.     15 16. 
Suetonius.     1 52 1. 
Thesaurus  Comucopise.     1497. 
Thucydides.     1 502. 
Urbanus,  B.     Instit.  Gr.  Or.     1497. 
Virgilius.     Opera.     1501. 

;,  „  1514- 

Aleppo,    v.  Robson. 
Algiers  Voyage,    v.  B.,  I. 
Allen,  Cardinal,    v.  D.,  G. 
Alphabet,  Ornamental,    v.  Kilian. 
Alphabets,  Book  of.    v.  De  Bry. 
Aluredi  Beverlacensis  Annales.     1716. 

V.  Heame. 
Amaro,  Sant.  Vida.    v.  Diaz  de  Osma. 
America,  Books  relating  to. 

Abr^ge  des  fruits  acquis,  &c.    1652. 

Acosta,  J.  de.  Hist,  de  las  Indias.  1590. 

Acufia,  P.  C.  de.     Rio  de  las  Amazo- 
nas.     1641. 

Adams,  J.  Q.    An  Oration.     1802. 

Amandus.     Chronica.     1534. 

Apianus,  P.     Cosmographicus.     1524. 

Archdale,  J.    Descr.  of  Carolina.    1707. 

Argonautica  Gustaviana.     1633. 

Arrivde  des  Ambass.  de  Patagoce.  1649. 

Baers,  J.    Olinda.     1630. 

Barcia,  A.  G.     Historiadores   primiti- 
vos.     1749.     V.  Appendix. 

Barteus,  C.     Olinda.     1630. 
„  Brasiha.     1647. 

Barlow,  S.  L.  M.    Notes  on  Columbus. 
1866. 

Bartolomecs,  J.    Epistola  d  los  Peru- 
leros.    \s.  «.] 

Bechteln,J.  Kurzer  Catechismus.  1742. 

Benavidcs.    Memorial.     1630. 


America,  Books  relating  to— contittued. 
Benson,  E.    Memoir.    1817. 
Benzoni,  Gir.    Mondo  Nuovo.    1565. 

n  »  i>  »  1572- 

„  „     Novi  Orbis  Hist.    1578. 

Beschreibung  von  der  Eroberung,  &c. 
1629. 

Beschrijvinghe  van  Virginia.     1651. 

Beverley,  R.    Virginia.    1705. 

Biorck,  Z.  E.  Ecclesia  Suecana.  [1731.] 
Bishop,  G.  New  England  judged.  1661. 

v.  Appendix. 
Bisselius,  J.    Argonauticon.     1647. 
Boucher,  P.  Hist. dela  N.  France.  1664. 
Bouton,  J.    Isle  de  Martinique.    1640. 
Brazil.    Various  pieces. 
Broeck,  M.  van  den.    Joumael.     1651. 
Brulius,  J.     Hist.  Peruana,  &c.    165 1. 
Bugg,  F.  News  from  Pennsylvania.  1703. 

v.  Appendix. 
Bulkeley,  G.    People's  right  to  election. 

1689. 
Bullock,  W.  Virginia  examined.   1649. 
C,  R.     Lithobolia.     1698. 
C,  W.  Descrip.  of  the  Bermudas.  1613. 
C,  W.     Petition.     1641. 
Caledonia  ;  or  the  Pedlar,  &c.     1700. 
Calef,  R.     Wonders  of  the  Invisible 

World.     1700. 
Callender,   J.     Rhode    Island.      1739. 

V.  Appendix. 
Canada.     Contrat  d' Association.    161 3. 

„         Etat  de  I'Eglise.     1688. 
Cardenas,  B.  de.     Memorial.     1634. 
Cartier,  J.    Voyage  au  Canada.    1865. 
„  Relation.    1867. 

„  Brefrdcit.    1863. 

„  Two  navigations.    1580. 

Casas,  B.  de  las.    Brevissima  relacion, 

&c.    1552. 
Casas,  B.  de  las.      Narratio   Regionum 

Indicarum.  1598. 
Casas,  B.  delas.  Spanish  Colonic.  1583. 
Castillo,  J.  de   Porres.    Relacion,  &c. 

1662. 
Cepeda,  F.  de.    Relacion  de  Me,\ico. 

1637- 
Champlain,    S.  de.      Voyages    en    la 

Nouvelle  France.    1620. 
Charlevoix,  F.  X.  de.  La  Nouv.  France. 

1744- 


INDEX. 


1743 


America,  Books  relating  \xi~continued. 
Christiansson,  C.    Prima:  lineaj.    \s.  «.] 
Cieca  de  Leon.  Chronica  del  Peru.  1554. 
Clark,  J.    Ill  Nevves  from  N.E.    1652. 
Cobbet,  T.  The  Civil  Magistrate.  1653. 
Coddington,  W.  Demonstration  of  love. 

1674. 
Columbus,  C.  Letter  in  Spanish.  1493. 

Repr. 
Columbus,  C.  Epistola.  \s.  «.] 

»  ).  1493- 

„  „  3rd  ed.  Facs. 

„  „  In  German.  1497. 

Connecticut,  Laws  of.     17 15. 
Constitutions  of  States.     1781. 
Coppier,  G.     Voyage  des  Indes  Occid. 

1645. 
Cortes,  H.     Nueva-Espafia.    1770. 
„  Narratio.     1524. 

„  Tertia  Narratio.    1524. 

„  De  Insulis,  &c.     1532. 

„  La     preclara     narratione. 

1524. 
CosmographicE  Introductio.     1507. 
»  »  1507. 

,,  »  1509- 

Cotton,  J.     Churches  in  N.  E.     1645. 
Cox,  D.  Description  of  Carolina.    1722. 
Creuxius,  F.     Hist.  Canadensis.     1664. 
Cripps,  J.    Dying  words  of  Ockanickon. 

1682. 
Cruel  Massacre  of  Protestants.     [1780.] 
Darien,  Information  concernant.  \s.  </.] 
David.     Botschafft,  &c.     [n.  </.] 
De  Bry.      Peregrinationes   in   Indiam 

Occidentalem.     1590,  &c. 
De   Myst,   G.     Verloren   Arbeyt,   &c. 

[1680.] 
Diez  de  la  Calle.     Memorial  informa- 

torio.     1645. 
Diez  de  la  Calle.     Memorial,   y    noti- 

cias  sacras.     [1646.] 
Drake,  Sir  F.     Expeditio  in  Indias  Oc- 

cidentales.     1588. 
Drake, Sir F.  Summariediscourse.  1589. 
„        „       SirF.  Drake  revived.  1626. 
„        „       The  world  encompassed. 
1635. 
Drake,  SirF.  SirF.  Drake  revived.  1653. 
Dulaney,  D.     Considerations.     1765. 
Enciso,  M.  F.  de.  Suma  de  Geographia. 
15 19. 


America,  Books  relating  Xo—conlimud. 
Espoleto,  Andres  de.     Martyrio.    1532. 

V.  Appendix. 
Exquemling,  J.  De  Americaensche  Zee- 

Koovers.     1678. 
Exquemling,  J.   liucaniers  of  America. 

1684. 

Fernandez,  D.     Hist,  del  Peru.     1571. 

Ford,  P.  Vindication  of  VV.  Penn.   1683. 

Fox,  Geo.  Gospel  Family  Order.    1676. 

„  Answer    to     Boston    Laws. 

1678. 
Fox,  L.     North-West  Fox.     1635. 
Franciscus,  E.  Guineischerund  Ameri- 

canischer  Blumen-Pusch.     1669. 
Frobisher,  M.     Schiffart.     1580. 

„  Navigatio.     1580. 

G.,  R.     Relation  of  the  Engl.  Plant,  at 

Plymouth.     1622. 
Garcia,  G.    Origen  de  los  Indies.  1607. 

)»  »j  »j  »  ^729- 

Garcilasso  de  la  Vega.     Commentarios 

Reales.     1609-17. 
Gardyner,    G.     Description   of  the  N. 

World.     1651. 
Gay,  E.     Sermon.     1746. 
Gerbier,  B.     Sommier  Verhael.     1660. 

V.  Appendix. 
Globus  Mundi.     1509. 
Gomara,  F.  L.  de.    La  Historia  general 

de  las  Indias.  1554. 
Gomara,  F.  L.  de.     Pleasant  Historie  of 

the  Conquest  of  W.  India.   1578. 
Gomara,  F.  L.  de.  Pleasant  Historie  of 

the  Conquest  of  W.  India.     1596. 
Gray,  R.     A  Good  speed  to  Virginia. 

1609. 
Guelen,  Aug.  de.  L'Estat  de  Phernam- 

bucq.     1640. 
Gueudeville,  N.    Dialogues  de  Lahon- 

tan,  &c.     1704. 
Guiana.  Griindlicher  Bericht,  &c.  1669. 
„     Beschryvinge  van  Guiana.  1676. 

,,  n  ).  »         1676. 

Gumilla,  J.    Naciones  del  Rio  Orinoco. 

1791. 
Ragman,  J.     Positionum  Miscell.   De- 

cas.     \s.  a.] 
Hariot,  T.     Virginia.     1588. 

„  „        In  French.    1590. 

Harrisse,  H.     Bibliotheca  Americana. 

1866-72. 


1744 


INDEX. 


America,  Books  relating  to — continued. 

Harvvard.     Sermon  at  Boston.     1732. 

Havana.     A  Broadside.     1628. 

Hayman,  R.  Quodlibets  from  New- 
foundland.    1628. 

Hellier,  T.     Prodigal  life.     1680. 

Hennepin,  L.  Nouvelled(^couverte.i697. 
„  Nouveau  voyage.     169S. 

Hernandez,  F.  Historia  Nova  planta- 
rum,  &c.     165 1. 

Herrera,  A.  de.  Hist.  General.  1601-15. 

,)  ,.  »  ,.  1730- 

„       Novus  Orbis.     1622. 
„       Descriptio  Indias.     1622. 
Higgeson,  F.     New  England's  Planta- 
tion.    1630. 
Hilton,   W.     Discovery    on    Coast    of 

Florida.     1664. 
Holguin,  D.  G.     Gramatica  de  la  Len- 

gua  de  Peru.     1607. 
Holguin,  D.  G.     Vocabulario.     1608. 
Holm,  T.  C.     Kort  Beskrifning  om  Nya 

Swerige.     1702. 
Holme,  T.  Map  of  Pennsylvania.  [1700.] 
Horbius,  J.  H.  de.     Orig.  Americanis. 

\_s.  «.] 
Horsmanden,  D.     Journal.     1744.     v. 

Appendix: 
Hubbard,  W.     New  England.     1677. 
Hudson,    H.      Descriptio    detectionis 

Freti.     1612. 
Hudson,    H.       Descriptio    detectionis 

Freti.     161 3. 
Hughes,  W.    The  American  Physician. 

1672. 
Hutchins,  T.     Description  of  Virginia. 

177S. 
I.,  R.     Nova  Britannia.     1609. 

„     New  Life  of  Virginia.     1612. 
Ibrahim  Effendi.   [Description  of  Ame- 
rica.] 
IngersoU's  Letters.     1766. 
Jennings,  S.     Certain  certificates  from 

America.     1695. 
Josselyn,  J.     New   England's   rarities. 

1672. 
Josselyn,  J.     Account  of  two  Voyages. 

1674. 
Keith,  G.      Division   of  the  Quakers. 

1692.     v.  Appetidi.Y. 
Kennett,  Bp.    Bibliotheca  Americana. 

'713- 


America,  Books  relating  to — continued. 
Laet,  J.  de.     Nieuwe  Wereldt.     1625. 
,,  Hist,  du  N.  Monde.  1640. 

„  Historie,  &c.     1644. 

„  De  origine  Gentium  Ame- 

ricanarum.     1644. 
Lawson,  J.     Voyage  to  Carohna.    1709. 
Lechford,  T.     Plain  dealing.     1642. 
Le  Clercq,  C.     Etab.  de  la  foy  dans  la 

N.  France.     1691. 
Le  Clercq,  C.  Nouv.  Rel.  de  la  Gaspesie. 

1691. 
Lederer,  J.     Discoveries.     1672. 
Lery,  J.     Voyage  au  Bresil.     1578. 

„         Navigatio  in  Brasiliam.  1594. 

Lescarbot,  M.  La  Nouv.  France.  1609. 

„  Descr.  of  Virginia.   1609. 

Lestrange,  H.  Americans  no  Jews.  1652. 

Levett,  C.     Voyage  to  New   England. 

1628. 
Lozano,  P.  Descripcion  del  Gran  Chaco. 

1733- 

Lussan,  R.  de.     Journal.     1690. 

Martyr,  P.  DeOrbe  novo  Decades.  1516. 
n  „  „  1533- 

»  »  »  15^7- 

„  Decades  of  the  New  World. 

1555- 
Martyr,  P.    History  of  Travayle.    1577. 
„  Hist.ofthe  W.Indies.  1612. 

«  »  ,.  [>'■  ^■] 

„  Indie  Occidentali.     1534. 

„  De  nuper  repertis  Insulis. 

1531- 
Maryland,  A  relation  of.     1635. 
Massachusetts,   Debates,  Resolutions, 

&c.     1788. 
Mather,  C.     Life  of  J.  Eliot.     1691. 
„  Wonders  of  the  Invisible 

World.     1693. 
Mather,  C.     Batteries,  &c.     1695. 

„  LifeofPhips.  1697.  \.  Ap- 

pendix. 
Mather,  C.     Faith  of  the  Fathers.  1699. 
„  Duodecennium.     1714. 

„  Hades  looked  into.     1717. 

„  India  Christiana.     1721. 

„  Parentator.     1724. 

„  Edulcorator.     1725. 

Mather,  E.     Serious  exhortation.  1671. 
Mather,  J.  War  with  the  Indians.  1676. 
„  Discourse  of  Comets.    1683. 


INDEX. 


1745 


America,  Books  relating  to — continued. 
Mather, J.  Doctiineof Providence.  1684. 
„  Order  of  the  Gospel.     1700. 

„  Remarks  on  a  pretended  an- 

swer.    [17 1 2.] 
Mather,  N.     Sermon.     1684. 
Mather,  R.     Answer  to  Hcrle.     1644. 

„  Life  of.     1670. 

Mayhew,  M.  Conquests  of  Grace.  1695. 
Mercurio  Peruano.     179 1-5. 
Molina,  A.  de.    Vocabulario  Mexicana. 

1571. 
Montanus,  A.     De   Nieuwe   Weereld, 

&c.     1671. 
Montesinos,  F.    Auto  de  la  Fe  en  Lima. 

1639. 
Moodey,  S.     Life  of  J.  Ouasson.    1726. 
Morton,  N.     New  Englands  Memorial. 

1721. 
Morton,  T.  New  English  Canaan.  1637. 
Nantes,  B.  de.  Katecismo  Indico.  1709. 
Neal,  D.     Hist,  of  N.  England.     1747. 
Neuffer,  F.  M.     Dissertatio.     \s.  «.] 
New  England,  Discovery  of.     1622. 
„  Abstract  of  Laws.     1641. 

„  The  Day  breaking.  1647 

„  Good  news   from   N.  E. 

1648. 
New  England.    The   light   appearing. 

1651. 
New  England,  History  of.     1654. 

„  A  degenerateplant.  1659. 

New  England's  First  Fruits.     1643. 
Newfoundland,  Commission  for  govern- 
ing.    1633. 
New  Jersey,  Account  of.     1676. 

„  Bill  in  Chancery.     1747. 

,.  »  ,.         1747.     V. 

Appendix. 
New  Netherlands.     Various  pieces  in 

Dutch.     1630-65. 
Nicholl,  J.     An  Houre  Glasse.     1607. 
Nodal,  G.  de.    Relacion  del  Viage,  &c. 

1621. 
Noort,  O.  van.     Voyagie.     \o.  /] 

„  „  „  1602. 

Norton,  H.     New  England's  Ensigne. 

1659., 
Norton,  J.    The  heart  of  New  England 

rent.     1660. 
Novus  Orbis.  1537. 
»      IS55- 


America,  Books  relating  lo— continued. 
Novus  Orbis.   Die  New  Welt.     1534. 
„        1,       Die  nieuwe  weerelt.  1563. 
„        „       1616. 
Noyes,  J.  The  Temple  measured.  1647. 
Nunez,  A.  Relacion  de  las  I ndias.  1555. 
Oiia,  P.  de.     Arauco  Domado.     1605. 
Ovalle,  A.  de.  Relacion  de  Chile.   1646. 
Ovicdo  y  Valdes.     Natural  Hystoria  de 

las  I  ndias.     1526. 
Oviedo  y  Valdes.     Coronica  de  las  In- 

dias.     1547. 
Oviedo  y  Valdes.     Historia  de  las  In- 

dias.     1557. 
Pagan,  F.  J.  B.     Relation  de  TAmazon. 

1655. 
Pagan,   F.   J.    B.     Description   of  the 

Amazon.     1661. 
Palafox    y     Mendoza.      Virtudes     del 

Indio.     [s.  a.] 
Palmer,  J.   State  of  N.  England.     1690. 
Pastor,  F.    D.     Beschreibung   Pensyl- 

vaniK.     1700. 
Penhallow,  S.Warsof  N.  England.  1725, 
Penn,  W.  Letter  on  Pennsylvania.  1683 
Pennsylvania,  State  of.     1755. 

„  „        Answer  to.     1755 

Petition  of  the  Court  of  Boston.     1660, 
Philadelphia,  Address.     [1726.] 
Philoponus,    H.       Nova    typis    Navi 

gatio.     1621. 
Piedrahita, L.  F.  Hist,  de  Granada.  1689. 
Piso,  G.     Hist.  Nat.  Brasilia.     1648. 

„        De  Indiis  utriusq.     1658. 
Plantagenet,  B.     New  Albion.     1648. 
„  „  1650. 

Planter's  Plea.     1630. 
Popeliniere,  L.  V.  Lestroismondes.  1582. 
Prince,  T.  History  of  N.  England.  1736. 
Quakers,  Persecution  of.     [1661.] 
Raleigh,  W.     Description   of  Guiana. 

1596. 
Raleigh,  W.    DescriptioRegni  Guiana. 

1599- 
Raleigh,  W.  Beschryvinge  van  Guiana. 

1598. 
Raleigh,  W.  Beschryvinge  van  Guiana, 

1605. 
Recentes  Novi  Orbis  Historije.     1612. 
Recio  de  Leon,  J.    Peligros  del  camino. 

[1626.] 
Regla  Christiana  breve.     1 547. 


1746 


INDEX. 


America,  Books  relating  to — continued. 
Reyard,  N.    Journal  in  Canada.     1693. 
Ribas,  A.  P.  de.     Triumphos  de  la  Fe. 

1645. 
Rich,  R.     Newes  from  Virginia.     1610. 

1.  11  I)  !.  1865. 

Richshoffer,  A.    Brasilianisch  Beschrei- 
bung.     1677. 

Rincon,  A.  del.   Arte  Mexicana.     1595. 

Robinson,  W.     Epistles  from  N.  Eng- 
land.    1669. 

Ruiz,  A.     Conquista  Espiritual.     1639. 

S.,  I.   Journal  of  the  Engl.  Army  in  the 
W.  Indies.     1655. 

Sagard,  T.  Grand  voy.  des  Hurons.  1632. 
„  Histoire  du  Canada.      1636. 

Sahagum  de  Arevalo.    Noticias  Ameri- 
canas.     [1730.] 

Sanson,  N.     L'Amdrique.     1662. 

Scot,  Geo.   Govern,  of  N.  Jersey.  1685. 

Secret  works  of  a  cruel  people.     1659. 

Smith,  J.  Map  of  Virginia.     1612. 

„        Descrip.  of  N.  England.  1616. 
„        New  England's  Trials.  1622. 
„        Historie  of  Virginia.     1624. 
,,  „  »  1631. 

Smith,  S.     History  of  N.  Jersey.    1765. 

Sohnus,  C.  J.     Polyhistor.     1520. 

Solis,  A.     Conquista  de  Mexico.    1783. 

Stenstrom,  Haguinus.  Dissert,  de  Ame- 
rica.    1 80 1. 

Stephenson,  M.  Call  from  death.  1660. 

Strength  out  of  Weakness.     1652. 

Sundstrdm,   S.       De    statu    America- 
norum.     17 16. 

Swedberg,J.  America illuminata.  1732. 

Syllacius,  N.  Deinsuli  Meridiani.  1859. 

Techo,  N.  de.    Hist.  Paraquariee.  1673. 

Thevenot,    M.       Relations    de    divers 
Voyages.     1662-73. 

Thevenot,  M.  Recueil  de  Voyages.  168 1. 

Thevet,  F.   A.       Les   Singularitez    de 
France.     1557- 

Thevet,    F.   A.       Les   Singularitez   de 
France.     1558. 

Thevet,  F.  A.   The  New  Found  World. 
1568. 

Thomas,  G.  Hist,  of  Pennsylvania.  1698. 

Thorowgood,  T.  Jews  in  America.  1650. 
„  „  „  Pt.  2.  1650. 

Uchteritz,  H.  V.      Kurze  Reise.     1705. 

United  States  Census.     1791. 


America,  Books  relating  to — continued. 
Vadianus,  J.     Epistola.     15 15. 
Vanderdonck,  A.     Nieuw  Nederlandt. 

1655. 
Vanderdonck,  A.     Nieuw  Nederlandt. 

1656. 
Vargas,   T.   T.   de.     Restauracion   de 

Salvador.     1628. 
Vaughan,  W.  The  Golden  Fleece.  1628. 
Veitia,   J.   de.      Norte   de   la   Contra- 

tacion,  &c.     1672. 
Venegas,  M.     Noticia  de  la  California. 

I7S7- 
Verardus,  C.     In  laudem  Ferdinandi. 

1494. 
Vesputius,  A.     Mundus  Novus.    [.f.  <?.] 

n  n  »  1504- 

„  Von  der  new  gefunden 

Region.     \o.  /.] 
Vesputius,  A.  De  Ora  Antarctica.  1505. 
„  Disz  buchlin  saget,&c.  1509. 

„  Paesi  Nov.  ritrovati.    1507. 

„  „  „  I5'7- 

„  „  »  1519- 

„  Itinerarium  Portugal.   1508. 

„  Le  Nouveau  Monde,    [s.d.] 

„  Newe  unbekanthe  Landte. 

1508. 
Vetancurt,  Aug.  de.     Arte  de  Lengua 

Mexicana.     1673. 
Viage  desde  el  Callao.     MS. 
Villagra,   G.   de.      Hist,  de  la  Nueva 

Mexico.     1610. 
Virginia,  Estate  of.     1610. 

„        Perfect  description  of.     1649. 
W.,  T.  Short  story  of  Antinomians  in 

New  England.     1692. 
Wagner,  G.  De  originibus  Americanis. 

1769.     v.  Appendix. 
Wahlstedt.J.J.  Iterin  Americam.  1725. 
Washington,  G.     Address.     1850. 
Whitaker,  A.     Good   newes  from  Vir- 
ginia.    1613. 
Williams,  E.   Virgo  Triumphans.  1650. 

„  Virginia.     1650. 

Wilmore,  J.    Case  of  J.  Wilmore.  1662. 
Winkelmann,  H.J.  DerAmericanischen 

Welt.     1664. 
Wytfliet,  C.     Descrip.  Ptol.  aug.    1592. 
Xerez,    F.   de.       Conquista    del    Peru. 
\s.  I.  n.  (7.] 


INDEX. 


'747 


America,  Books  relating  to — continued. 
Xerez,  F.  de.     Libro  primo  de  la  Con- 

quista  del  Peru.     1535. 
America.    Books  printed  in.    See  also 

Mexico. 
Allen,  E.  Reason  the  only  oracle.  Ben- 

ni7igtoti.     1784. 
Amat.     Lima.     1773. 
Bechteln,  J.   Kurzer  Catechismus.  Phi- 
ladelphia.    1742. 
Bulkeley,  G.     People's  right  to  election. 

Philadelphia.     1689. 
Callender,   J.     Rhode  Island.     Boston. 

1769.     V.  Appendix. 
Checkley,    J.        Religion     of     Christ. 

Boston.     1 7 19. 
Connecticut,  Laws  of.     New    London. 

1715. 
Connecticut,  Charters.     New  London. 

1718. 
Constitutions  of  States.    Philad.    1781. 
Dulaney,  D.  Considerations,  &c.  North 

Am.     1765. 
Gay,  E.     Sermon.     Boston.     1746. 
Holguin,  D.  G.  Gramatica  de  la  Lengua 

de  Peru.     Peru.     1607. 
Holguin,  D.   G.     Vocabulario.      Peru. 

1608. 
Horsmanden,  D.    Journal.     N.    York. 

1744.     V.  Appendi.i: 
IngersoU,  J.      Letters.     New  Haven. 

1766. 
Keith,  G.  Plea  of  the  Innocent.  \Philad. 

1692.] 
Mather,    C.       Faith    of    the   Fathers. 

Boston.     1 699. 
Mather,  C.     Duodecennium.     Boston. 

1714. 
Mather,  C.  Hades  looked  into.  Boston. 

1717. 
Mather,  C.     India  Christiana.     Boston. 

1721. 
Mather,  C.    Parentator.   Boston.    1724. 
„  Edulcorator.  Boston.  1725. 

Mather,  E.  Serious  Exhortation.   Cam- 
bridge.    1 67 1. 
Mather,    J.      War  with   the   Indians. 

Boston.     1676. 
Mather,  J.  Discourse  of  Comets.  Boston. 

1683. 
Mather,  J.      Doctrine    of    Providence. 

Boston.     1684. 


America,  Books  printed  in — continued. 
Mather,  J.  Order  of  the  Gospel.  Boston. 

1700. 
Mather,  N.     Sermon.     Boston.     1684. 
Mather,  R.     Life.     Boston.     1670. 
Mercurio  Peruano.     Lima.     1791-5. 
Montcsinos,  F.    Auto  de  la  Fe.    Lima. 

1639- 
Moodey,  S.  Lifeof  J.  Quasson.  Boston. 

1726. 
Muiioz,  J.  B.    Historia  del  N.  M.    1793. 
New  Jersey.     Bill   in   Chancery.      N. 

York.     1747. 
Palmer,   J.     State    of   New    England. 

1690. 
Penhallow,  S.     Wars  of  New  England. 

Boston.     1725. 

Psalterium  Americanum.  Boston.  1718. 

,,  „        1758. 

»  >,  »         1773- 

Smith,  S.     History  of  N.  Jersey.    1765. 

Trumball,  J.      McFingall.      Hartford. 

1782. 
Virgil  Burlesqued.    Charlestown.   1774. 
Wallis,  D.    Sad  effects  of  Sin.   Boston. 

1713- 
Whitefield's  Letters.     Philad.     1740. 

„  Letter  to  Chauncey.     1745. 

Wolcott,  R.  Poetical  Meditations.  New 
London.     1725. 
Amsterdam,    v.  Pontanus. 
Angling. 

Berners,  J.  Book  of  Hawking.  [Fishing 

with  an  Angle.]     1496. 
Berners,  J.     Book  of  Hawking.     1503. 
Dennys,  J.     The   Secrets  of  Anghng. 

1613. 
Franck,  R.     Northern  Memoirs.    1694. 
Gardiner,  S.  A  Booke  of  Angling.  1606. 
S.,  J.     The  Innocent  Epicure.     1697. 

i>  11  11  I7I3- 

Venables,  R.    The  experienced  Angler. 

1662. 

Walton's,  Iz.    Complete  Angler.    1653. 

»     »    1655. 

>,         »     >,     1661. 

„         ,.     .,    1664. 

„         „     „    1668. 

»     ,.    1676. 

.,      n      1760. 
,,      »      1836. 

Whitney,  J.   Genteel  Recreation.    1700. 


1748 


INDEX. 


Anglo-Saxon. 

Hickes,  G.    Thesaurus.     1705. 

Lye,  E.  Dictionarium  Saxonicum.  1772. 
Anjou,  Histoire  d'.     v.  Bourdigne. 
Apostolic  Epistles,    v.  Epistles. 
Archery. 

Ascham,  R.     Toxophilus.     1589. 

Markham,  G.     Art  of  Archerie.     1633. 

Neade,  W.    The  Double  Armed  Man. 
1625. 

Wood,  W.  The  Bowman's  Glory.  1682. 
Artificial  Memory,    v.  Cusanus. 
AsHMOLE.     V.  Theatrum  Chemicum. 
Assad  A,  Island  of.     v.  Hunt. 
Astrology. 

Alsted,    H.      The   World's   preceding 
Woes.     1642. 

Astrology,     Knavery    of,     discovered. 
1680.     V.  Appendix. 

Black  munday  turned  white.     1652. 

Chamber,  J.    Against  Jud.  Astrol.  1601. 

Crow,  F.     Vanity  of  Astrology.     1690. 

Eclipse.     The  late  Eclipse  unclasped. 
1652. 

Fair  in  Spittle  Fields.     1652. 

G.,  J.    Philastrogus  Knavery,  &c.   1652. 

Geree,  J.     Astrologo-Mastix.     1646. 

Napier,  J.     Bloody  Almanack.     1647. 

Partridge,  J.   Opus  Reformatum.  1693. 

Ramsey,  W.   Reply  to  Raunce.     1650. 

Wizard  unvizored.     1652. 
AuGSBURG.v.Geschlechter-Buch,&c.i58o. 
Azores,    v.  Mosquera  de  Figueroa. 

Balearic  Isles,    v.  Dameto. 
Ballads  and  Broadsides  contained  in  the 

Folio  volume  from  the  Daniel  library. 
As  pleasant  a  dittie  as  your  heart  can 

wish.     [1600.]     (64.) 
Awdely,J.  Wonders  of  Engl.  1559.  (44.) 
Awdely,  J.     Godly  ditty.     [1570.]    (18.) 
B.,  H.     Childe  with  ruffes.     1566.(34.) 
B.,  R.     NewBalade.     [«.  ^.]     (13.) 
Ballad  of  a  priest.     [«.  d.'\     (16.) 
Ballad.     Good  fellows   must  go  learn 

dance.     [1569.]     (66.) 
Ballad.     Rejoicing  the  sudden  fall,  &c. 

[1570.]     (29.) 
Ballad  of  King,  Priest,  &c.  [1600.]  (63.) 
Barker,  J.     A  Ballad,  (S:c.     [1570.]  (5.) 
„  Of  a  monstrous    child. 

1564.    (40.) 


Ballads — contimted. 

Barker,  J.  The  Plagues  of  Northum- 
berland.    [1570.]     (20.) 

Bette,  T.  Against  rebellious  rumours. 
[1570.]     (26.) 

Bull.  The  Brainless  blessing,  &c.  1571. 
(48.) 

Capuchins.     [1580.]     (43.) 

D.,  John.  A  monstrous  child.  1562.(33.) 

Dance  and  song  of  death.  [1560.]  (32.) 

Deloney,  T.    Propernew  Sonet.    1586. 

(55.) 
Dittie   delightful  of  mother    Watkin's 

ale.     \n.  ^.]     (65.) 
Elderton,  W.     A  ballad  intituled  a  new 

well  adaye.    [1570.]     (4.) 
Elderton,  W.     Prepare  ye  to  the   plow. 

[1570.]     (25.) 
Elderton,  W.     A   proper  new   Ballad. 

[1570.]     (7.) 
Elderton,  W.     A  proper  new  Balade  in 

praiseof  my  ladie  Marques.  [1570.]  (2.) 
Elizabeth,  Queen.     [1560.]    (28.) 
F.,  W.     The   Shape   of  two  monsters. 

[1565.]    {Zl^) 
F.,  W.  A  new  Ballad  against  unthriftes. 

[1565.]    (59-) 
Franklin,  J.  Franklin's  farewell.   [«.  a'.] 

(45-) 
Garter,  B.  Dittie  in  praise,  &c.    [1562.] 

(S3.) 
Garter,  B.  Strife  between  Appelles,  &c. 

[1566.]    (57.) 
Gibson,  L.  A  veiy  proper  dittie.  [1570.] 

(22.) 
Granger,  T.     The  xxv  orders  of  fooles. 

[1570.]     (46.) 
Groom  Porters  lawes  at  Mawe.  [1580.] 

(51.) 
Harrington,  R.    Famous  dittie.   [1584.] 

(61.) 
Hevwood,  J.    Ballad  against  Slander. 

[«.«'.]    (10.) 
Huntingdon,  H.  Hastings,  E.  of.  1596. 

(56.) 
I.,  A.     A  godly  ballad.     1566.     (49.) 
Kyrkham,\V.  Joyfull Newes.  [i 570.] (54.) 
M.,  R.     A  new  Ballade.  [«.  a'.]    (15.) 
Mell,  G.  The  bryber  Gehesie.  [«.  ^.]  (3.) 
Mellys,  J.  Description  of  two  monsters. 

1566.     (35.) 
Merchant's  daughter.    [1600.]   (8&9.) 


INDEX. 


1749 


Ballads — continued. 
Monstrous   child   bom   at    Maidstone. 

1568.  (38.) 

Monstrous  child  born  at  Much  Horkes- 

ley.     1562.     (36.) 
Monstrous  pig  at  Hanisted.   1562.  (39.) 
Mournful  ditty.     1590.    (62.) 
O  marvellous  tidings.     [1570.]     (60.) 
Oath  of  every  freeman.     \ti.  (/.]     (47.) 
Osborne,  M.     New  Ballad  of  a  lover. 

[1568.]     (27.) 
Other  thus  it  is.     \ii.dl\    (52.) 
P.,  I.     A  mervaylous  deformed  swine. 

[«.rf.]   (42.) 
Patient  Grisell.     [«.  d^,    (17.) 
Peele,  S.     The  pope  in   his   fury,   &c. 

[1570.]     (so.) 
Phillip,   J.      Epitaph     on    the     Lady 

Mayoress.     [1570.]     (23.) 
Phillip,  J.  Epitaph  on  Lord  Wriothesley. 

1581.     (58.) 
Prisoners' petition.     [1600.]     (i.) 
Rider,  T.  A  merie  new  Ballad.  \n.  r/.]  (30.) 
Robinson,   C.     Description  of  a   fish. 

1569.  (41.) 

Saparton,  J.  Saparton's  Alarum.  [1570.] 

(68.) 
Sempill,  R.  Ane  new  Ballet.   1572.  (11.) 
„  Ane  complaint  upon  fortune. 

1572.  (12.) 
Sodom  &  Gomorrah.  \n.  rt'.]  (24.) 
Song.  A  Mery  new  song.  [1600.]  (19.) 
Sterrie,  D.  A  briefe  sonet.  [1586.]  (14.) 
Symon,  T.  A  pleasant  posie.  1572.  (6.) 
T.,  W.  T.  AmeryBalade.  \n.d.\  (21.) 
Tarlton,    R.     A    pretie    new    Ballad. 

[1570.]     (31.) 
Widow  of  Watling  Street.  \n.  d?\  (69-70.) 
Wilson,  Chr.   Almighty  God,   I    pray, 
&c.  1566.     (67.) 

This  list  comprises  the  seventy  old 
Ballads  of  which  the  collection  con- 
sists. "The  Merchant's  Daughter  of 
Bristow  "  and  the  "  Widow  of  Watling 
Street,"  each  being  in  two  parts.  In 
the  reprint  made  in  1867  the  collec- 
tion is  described  as  "  79  Black-letter 
Ballads  ; "  the  extra  nine  consisting  of 
three  which  are  printed  on  the  same 
broadside  as  B .  Garter's  "Appelles  and 
Pigmalion,"  one  which  is  on  the  same 
broadside  as  C.  Wilson's  "  Almighty 

10 


Ballads — continued. 

God,  &c.,"  and  five  pieces  of  MS. 
which  are  inserted  at  the  end  of  the 
collection. 

The  numbers  between  parentheses 
refer  to  the  pages  of  the  volume. 
Barharossa. 
AdelphuSjJ.    Ein  warhafftige  Beschrei- 
bung.     1520. 
Bardary.    v.  Wilkins. 
Barclay,  Alex.,  Notice  of.    v.  Jamieson. 
Barnp:s,  R.     Works,     v.  Tyndale. 
Basque  Language. 

Larramendi,  M.  dc.   El  impossible  ven- 

cido.     1729. 
Poza,  A.  de.     Dc  la  Antigua  lengua, 
&c.     1587. 
Basque  Provinces. 

Perochegui.    Origen  de  la  Nacion  Bas- 
congada.     1760. 
Basse,   W.      Great    Brittaines    Sun-set. 

Fragment  of.     v.  Fragments. 
Becket,  St.  Thomas  )x.     v.  Stapleton. 
Bees. 

Butler,  C.    Feminine  Monarchy.    1634. 

Southeme,  E.    Ordering  of  Bees.    1593. 

Benedictus  I'etroburgensis.     Vita  iien- 

rici  II.     V.  Heame. 
Berkshire. 
Bradfield.     Faithful  relation.     1650. 
Pote,  J.     History  of  Windsor  Castle. 
1749-62. 
Bermudas,    v.  C.,  W. 
Berners,  J.    Book  of  St.  Albans.    Frag- 
ment of.     V.  Fragments. 
Bevis  of  Southampton.  Fragment  of  an 

early  edition,     v.  Fragments. 
Bible,  editions  of,  in  Latin,     v.  Masch. 

Bibliotheca  Sacra. 
Bible,  History  of. 
Anderson,  C.     History  of  the  Bible. 
Lewis,].  Hist.ofTran.oftheBible.  1739. 
Bibles,  Catalogue  of.     v.  Wilson. 
Bibles  of  1539-1540-1541.    v.  Fry. 
Bibliography. 
Analectabiblion.     1836-7. 
Ashbumham  Catalogue.     1864. 
Asher,  A.     Essay  on  Hulsius.     1839. 
Bale,  J.    Scriptores.     1548  and  1559. 
Blades'  Life  of  Caxton.     1861-3. 
Brown,  J.  C.     Bibliotheca  Americana. 
1865-75. 
D 


I7S0 


INDEX. 


'SiVB.lAOGKk'PYn— continued. 

Brunei,  J.  C.  Manuel  du  libraire.   i860. 
Brydges,  E.     British  Bibliogr.     18 10. 
„  Restituta.     1814. 

„  Censura  Liter.     18 15. 

Camus,  A.  G.  Voyages  de  Debry.  1802. 
Clarke,  W.  Repertorium  Bibliogr.  1S19. 
Davis,  W.     Library  of  a  Bibliomaniac. 

1821. 
De  Bure.     Catalogue.     1786. 
De   Laet.     Catalogus   Biblioth.   J.   de 

Laet.    1650. 
Dibdin,  T.  F.     Bibliomania.     181 1. 
„  „  1842. 

„  Lincolne  Nosegay.  [1814.] 

„  Bibliotheca     Spenceriana. 

1814-15. 
Dibdin,  T.F.  yEdes  Althorpiana;.  1S22. 
„  Cassano  Catalogue.  1823. 

„  Decameron.     18 17. 

„  Tour  in  France  and  Ger- 

many.    182 1. 
Dibdin,  T.  F.     Remarks  on  Crapelet. 

1821. 
Dibdin, T.F.  Library  Companion.  1825. 
„  Gr.  and  Lat.  Classics.  1827. 

„  Bibliophobia.     1832. 

„  Reminiscences.     1836. 

„  Northern  Tour.     1838. 

Fry,  F.  Coverdale's  Bible  of  1535.  1867. 

„      Bibles  of  1539-41.     1865. 
Fry,  J.     Bibliographical     Memoranda. 

1816. 
Grenville,  T.    Bibliotheca  GrenviOiana. 

1842-72. 
Griffith,    A.    F.       Bibliotheca    Anglo- 

Poetica.     181 5. 
Harrisse,  H.     Bibliotheca  Americana. 

1866-72. 
Hartshome,  C.  H.  Book  rarities.  1829. 
McCuUoch,  J.  R.  Cat.  of  Books.  1862. 
Masch,  A.  G.  Bibhotheca  Sacra.  1778. 
Meuselius.  Bibliotheca  Historica.  1782. 
Nicolson,Bp.  Engl.Ir.  and  Scotch  Hist. 

Libraries.    1776. 
Oldys,  W.     British  Librarian.     1738. 
Panzer,  G.  W.     Annales  Typographic^ 

1793-1803. 
Panzer,  G.  W.    Annalender  Deutschen 

Liter.     1788-1S05. 
Pettigrew,   T.   J.     Bibhotheca   Sussex. 
1827-39. 


'QwiAOGV.kvw^— continued. 

Rive,  J.J.  La  chasse  aux  Bibliographes. 
1788-9. 

Salva,  P.    Catalogo.     1872. 

Sotheby,  S.  L.  Principia  Tj'pographica. 
1858. 

Sotheby,  S.  L.     Memoranda.     1859. 

Struvius,  B.  G.     Bibliotheca  Historica. 
1782. 

Tanner,T.  Bibliotheca  Britanica.  1748. 

Upcott,W.  English  Topography.  1818. 

Watt,  R.  Bibliotheca  Britannica.   1824. 

Wilson,  L.    Catalogue  of  Bibles.    1845. 
Bindings,  Specimens  of  Ancient. 

Albert,  L.  P. 

Augustinus  de  Civ.  Dei. 

Christliches  Buss-Beicht. 

Galenus. 

Horatius.     1721. 

Justinianus.    Pandects. 

Kegelius. 

Paris. 

Pausanias. 

Pett/s  Maps. 

Traitd  sur  la  charitd. 

V"alerianus.     Hieroglyphica. 
Bird,  Gul.     Cantiones.     v.  Tallis. 
Birds,    v.  Ornithology. 
Blayney,  Allan.     Festorum  Metropolis. 

v.  Christmas. 
Block  Books  and  Block  Printing. 

Almanack. 

Apocalypse. 

Ars  Memorandi. 

Ars  Moriendi. 

Indulgence. 

Opera  nova  contemplativa. 
Book  of  Bulls,    v.  Chamberlaine. 
Book  of  Honor.     1 590.    v.  Segar. 
Book,  A.  of  Foreign  Passages,   v.  Jenner. 
Books  with  extra  illustrations. 

Ellis,  Sir  H.     History  of  Shoreditch. 

Evelyn's  Memoirs. 

Lysons'  London. 

Manning  and  Bray. 

Nelson's  History  of  Islington. 

Pepys'  Memoirs. 

Wiffen's  House  of  Russell. 
Books  printed  on  vellum. 

Enchiridion  Ecclesiaj  Sarum.     1528. 

Eymcricus,  N.     Directorium  Inquisito- 
rum.     1 503. 


INDEX. 


1751 


Books  printed  on  vellum — continued. 
Fairy  Tales.     1875. 

Fish,S.  Supplication  of  theReggars.  1S45. 
Fructus  Temponim.  St.  Albans.  [«.  iii\ 
Horse  Beats  Marias  Virginis.     1496. 
..  ..  ,.  >,         1497- 

.,  ,.  „  >.         '5°9- 

j>  »  »  »i        ^S'/' 

»  ,,  ,,  ,,        [1520-] 

-jj  »>  )»  »)        1522. 

„  „    Ad  usum  Sarum.  1502. 

Officium  B.V.M.     1499. 
Ordonnances  de  I'Ordre  de  la  Thoyson 

d'Or.     \s.  fl'.] 
Ordonnances  de  I'Ordre  de  la  Thoyson 

d'Or.  2".  edition.  \s.  </.] 
Ordonnances.  Constitutiones,  &c.  [,f. «.] 
„  „         Editiosec.  [j.a.] 

Pfintzing,  M.     Tewrdannckh.     1517. 
Shakespeare's  Works.     1 862-4. 
Suckling's  Works.     1874. 
Testament,  The  New.     1862. 

„  „  in  German.   1629. 

Tournay,  Le  depucellage  de.     \s.  ^/.] 
Tyndale,  W.     Prophet  Jonas.     1S63. 
Vigerius  Saonensis.     1507. 
Breton,  N.  A.    A  Poste,  &c.  Fragment 

of.  V.  Fragments. 
Bristol,  v.  Bayley. 
Brown,  E.    Fasciculus  rerum  expeten- 

darum.     v.  Gratius. 
Brownists.    v.  Robinson. 
Brunellus  in  Speculo  Stultorum.  v.  Vi- 

gellus. 
BuCANlERS  of  America,     v.  Exquemling. 
Buckingham,  Duke  of,  at  the  Isle  of 

Rhea.     v.  Fleetwood. 
Buckingham,  Duke  of.  Life.    v.Wotton. 
Buckinghamshire. 

Lipscomb.     History  of  Bucks.    1847. 
Mellys,   J.     Monsters   born   at   Swan- 

burne.     1566. 
Willis,  B.  Antiq.  of  Buckingham.  1755. 
Bunyan,  John.  V.  Lying  wonder. 

Caius,  T.  Vindicia:  Oxoniensis.  v.  Hearne. 
Caligraphy. 

English,  Esther.  Le  livre  d'Ecclesi- 
aste.     1 60 1. 

Palatino,  G.  B.  Libro  a  Scrivere.  1548. 
Camden,  Gul.    Annales  rer.  Anglicarum. 

V.  Hearne. 


Canary  Isles. 

Nunez  de  la  Pena.  Conquista,  &c.  1676. 
Perez  de  el  Christo.    Islas  de  Canaria. 
1679. 
Canterbury,  Book  printed  at. 

Hurlestone,    R.     Newes    from    Rome. 
[1560.] 
Cantilupe,  Life  of.     v.  Strange. 
Carthusian  Martyrs.  1608.  v.  Havensius. 
Catalan  Dialect,  Books  in  the. 
yEsop.    \s.  a.] 

Bosch,  A.     Titols  de  Honor.     1628. 
Carbonell,  M.     Chroniqucs.     1546. 
Catalan  Poetry,  MS. 
Consolat.     \s.  a.] 
1645. 
Curtius  Rufus,  Quintus.     1481. 
March,  M.  A.     Obres.     1545. 
Obres  fetes  en  labor  di  S.  Caterina.  [  1 5 1 1 .] 
Catherine  of  Siena. 

Obres  fetes  en  labor  di  S.  Caterina.  [  1 5 1 1 .] 
PoUio,  J.     Vita  e  morte.     1540. 
Catholic  Martyrs. 

Cavalleriis,  J.  B.     Ecclesia:  Angl.  Tro- 

phea.     1584, 
Geninges,  E.     Life  and  Death.     1614. 
Havensius,  A.    Historica  relatio.    1608. 
„  Speculum  Hasret.  Cru- 

del.    1608. 
Persecutio  Anglicana.     1 582. 
Caxton's  Life.    v.  Blades. 

„        Books  printed  by  him,  included 
in  this  catalogue,    v.  Printers,  Eng- 
lish, of  the  15th  and  i6th  centuies. 
Celestina.  Segunda  Comedia.    v.  Silva. 
Cervantes. 

Gayton,  E.  Notes  on  Don  Quixote.  1654. 
Haedo,  D.  de.     Topographia  de  Argel. 
1612. 
Ceylon,  History  of.      v.  Knox. 
Charles  I. 
Ashburnham,J.  Letter  to  Lenthall.  1647. 
Bonde,  C.     Scutum  Regale.     1660. 
Brandon,   R.      Confession.      1649.     v. 

Appendix. 
H.,   J.      King   Charles    his    entertain- 
ment.    1 64 1. 
Milton,  J.     Iconoclastes.     1649. 
Miracle  of  Miracles.     1649. 
Rivo,  G.  de.     Vindicia.     1650. 
Tragicum  Theatrum  actorum,  &c.  1649. 
Charles  V.    Victories  of.    v.  Maxwell. 


I7S2 


INDEX. 


Chase. 
Avendano.    Aviso  de  Cacadores.    1 543. 
BernevsJ.   Bookof  Hawking,  lic.   1496. 
Berners,  J.  Bookof  Hawking,  &c.   1503. 

1595- 
Bonfadini,V.  La  caccia  dell'  Arcobugio. 

164S. 
Glamorgan,].    Chasse  du  Loup.    1598. 
Fouilloux,  J.     La  Vdndrie.     \s.  d^ 
Hawking.  Biechlein  von  Baissen.  1497. 
Heller,  J.Jag  undWeydwerck  Buch.  1582. 
Lonicerus,  J.  A.     Venatus,  &c.     1592. 
Modus.     Le  livre  du  Roy.     \s.  di\ 
Spangenberg,  C.    Der  JagteuffeL    1 560. 
Cheshire. 

King,  D.     The  Vale  Royal.     1656. 
Ordinance  on  the  Mayor,  &c.,  of  Ches- 
ter.    1647. 
Ormerod,  G.    Hist,  of  Cheshire.     18 19. 
Chess. 

Cessolis,J.de.  De Ludo Scachorum.  MS. 
Cessolis,  J.  de.    Scaecspel.     1479. 

„  „        Book  of  Chess.  [1481.] 

Porto,  A.     Giuoco  dei  Scacchi.    1618. 
China. 
Antonio.     Chronicas.     1738. 
Cruz,  G.  da.     Tractado.     1 570. 
Feynes.     Voyage  i  la  Chine.     1630. 
Gonzalez    de    Mendoza.      Historia   de 

China.     1585. 
Gonzalez    de    Mendoza.      Historia   de 

China.     1596. 
Gonzalez    de    Mendoza.       Historic    of 

China.     1588. 
Navarrete,F.  Trat.  Hist.de  China.  1676. 
Chiromancy. 

Bulwer,  J.     Chirologia.     1644. 
Indagine,  J.     Kunst  der  Chiromantzey. 

1523- 
Indagine,  J.    Art  of  Chiromancy.    1558. 
Christmas,    v.  King,  J. 
Chronicles.    See  also  under  Chroni- 
cles in  the  Catalogue. 
Andrada.    Cron.  de  Joao  IH.     1613. 
Arnold's  Chronicle.     1503. 
1521. 
Carbonell,  M.    Chroniques.     1546. 
Carion,  J.     Chronicles.     15S0. 
Fabyan,  R.    Chronicle.     1533. 
,.  1542. 

»  ,.  1559- 

„  „  181 1. 


Chronicles — continued. 

Froissart,  J.   Chroniques.  Paris.  \s.  d.^ 

„  Chronicles.    1523. 

Fructus  Temporum.    [«.  d.'\ 
Grafton,  R.     Chronicles.     1569. 

„  „  1809. 

Halle,  E.     Chronicle.     1546. 

1.  ,.  1550- 

„  „  1809. 

Harding,  J.     Chronicle.     1543. 
„  1812. 

Higden,  J.  Polycronicon.  1495  and  1528. 
HoUnshed,  R..     Chronicles.     1577. 

«  »  1587- 

„  „  1807. 

Martinus  Polonus.    La  Cronique  Mar- 

tiniane.     1504. 
Monstrelet,  J.    Chroniques.    [s.  d.'] 

„  „  1518. 

Perez  de  Guzman.     Cronica.     15 17. 
Schedel,  H.   Chronicon  Nuremb.  1493. 
Stow,  J.     Chronicle  of  England.    161 5. 
Strutt,  J.    Chronicle  of  England.    1777. 
Thwrocz,J.de.Chron.Hungarorum.  1488. 
Valera,  D.     Cronica.     1482. 
Ville-Hardouin.     1601. 
Chronicon  de  Dunstaple.    v.  Heame. 
Civil  War  Tracts,    v.  Appendix. 
Cockfighting.    v.  Wilson,  G. 
Coffee,     v.  Appendix. 
Colet,  Dean.     v.  Knight. 
CoLOGNEjCouncilof  1536.  v.  Hermannus. 
Columbus,  Notice  of  v.  Psalterium.  1509. 

„  De  Insulis.     v.  Verardus. 

Conseil  i  la  France  desolde.  v.  Castalion. 
Cookery. 
Koch  &  Keller  Meisterey.     1566. 
Rosselli,  G.  de.     Epulario.     15 16. 
Rumpolt,M.  Ein new  Kochbuch.  1587. 
Cornwall. 

Carew,  R.     Survey.     1602. 
Closse,  G.   The  Parricide  papist.    1606. 
Hals,  W.    History  of  Cornwall.    [1750.] 
Hitchins,  F.  History  of  Cornwall.  1824. 
Costume. 
Amman.     Gynecaaum.     1586. 

„  „  In  German.  15S6. 

„         Habitus  Cleri  Romani.     1585. 
„  „  In  German.  1585. 

Fialetti,  O.  Habiti  delle  Religioni.  1626. 
Franco,  G.     Habiti  Venetian!.     1610. 
,,  „  ..         [-f-  3.] 


INDEX. 


1753 


Costume — continued. 

Hefner-Alteneck.  Costumes  du  Moyen- 

Age.     1 840. 
Hollar,  W.     Ornatus  Muliebris  Angli- 

canus.     1640. 
Hollar,  W.     Aula  Veneris.     1644. 
Meyrick,S.  R.  Costume  of  Britain.  18 15. 
Smith,  C.  H.    Ancient  Costume  of  Gt. 

Britain.     [;;.  (/.] 
Strutt,  J.     Dress  of  people  of  England. 

1842. 
Vecellio,  C.     Habiti  Antichi.     1 590. 
WeigeliuSjJ.  Habitus  virorum,&c.  1639. 
Coverdale's  Bible.     1535.     v.  Fry. 
Cranach,  L. 
Auerswalcl,  F.  von.  Ringer-Kunst.  1539. 
Hortulus  Animx.     1547. 
Wittenberg.     Dye  zaigung  des  Hailig- 
thums  1509. 
Cromwell,  Oliver. 
Gand,  L.  de.     Parallelum  OlivK.    1656. 
Silva,    R.    M.      Parangon  de  los   dos 
Cromueles.     1657. 
Cross,  Histoiy  of  the.    In  Dutch.     1483. 

V.  History. 
Cumberland. 
Copy  of  a  letter.     1795. 
Nicholson,  J.     History  of  Cumberland 
and  Westmoreland,  1777. 

Dance  of  Death. 
Danse  Macabre.    1491. 
>,  ..  1492. 

,.  »  H99- 

„  „  1 501. 

„  „  1528. 

Holbein,  H.     Les  simulachres  de  la 

mort.     1538. 
Holbein,  H.  Imagines  Mortis.    1545. 
„  Simolachri,  &c.     1 549. 

„  Imagines  Mortis.     1557. 

„  Triomphe  de  la  Mort.  1780. 

Merian,  M.     Todtentanz.     1649. 

„  Danse  des  Morts.     1756. 

Dancing. 
Caroso  da  Sermoneta,  F.    II  Ballarino. 

1581. 
Ferriol  yBoxeraus.  Reglasa  danzar.  1745. 

))  i>  11  »       [■''•  "^-J 

Thompson,   P.     200   Country  Dances. 

1720. 

Zuccollo,  S.    La  Puzza  del  Ballo.   1 549. 


Daniel,  Sam.    v.  Jovius,  P. 

Davies,  J.     Nosce  teipsum.     v.  Jcnner. 

A  work  for  none  but  angels. 
Davies,  Bp.  R.     Funeral  Sermon  on  E. 

of  Essex.     V.  Essex. 
Denmark,  George,  Pr.  of.    A  Pastoral 

on.     1683.     V.  George. 
Devonshire. 

Ashley,   R.      Blazing   star  at   Totnes. 
1642. 

Polwhele,  R.     History  of  Devonshire. 

1793- 

Prince,  J.    Worthies  of  Devon.     1701. 
Diana  of  Poictiers.     Specimen  of  bind- 
ing from  her  library,     v.  Albert. 
Dives  and  Pauper,    v.  Parker. 
Divorce,    v.  Milton. 
Dodd's  Church  History,     v.  Tootle. 
Dodw^ell,  H.     De  parma  equestri,  &c. 

V.  Hearne. 
Donne,  Dean.    v.  Walton. 
Dorsetshire. 

Hutchins,  J.    History.     1796-1815. 
Dotted    Prints,   Ancient    German,     v. 

Horologium.     See  also  the  Collection  of 

Prints. 
Drama,    v.  Stage. 

Actor's  Remonstrance.     1643. 

Downes.  J.  Roscius  Anglicanus.     1708. 

Field,  N.    Remonstrance.     1865. 

Green,  J.     Refutation  of  the  Apology 
for  Actors.     1615. 

Prynne,  W.    Histrio-Mastix.     1633. 

Rankin,  W.     A  Mirrour  of  Monsters. 
1587. 

Stage  Players  complaint.     1641. 

Ordinance    to    suppress  Stage    plays. 
1647. 
Drama,    v.  Plays. 
Drawing. 

Jenner,  T.     A  Book  of  Drawing.   1652. 

Peacham,   H.     The  art   of  Drawing. 
1607. 

Peacham,  H.     Graphice.     1612. 
Duelling.    Edict  against,    v.  James  I. 
Duns  Scotus.    Vita.    v.  Wadding. 
Durham. 

Raine,  J.   History  of  N.  Durham.   1852. 

Surtees,  R.    History  of  Durham.    1816. 

EA.STER  Festival. 

Paulus  de  recta  paschje  celebr.     15 13. 


1754 


INDEX. 


Ecclesiastical  Discipline,    v.  Travers. 
Eglamore  of  Artois.     Fragment   of.     v. 

Fragments. 
Elegidia  et  Poematia.     v.  Rustolf. 
Eliot,  John,  Life  of.    v.  Mather. 
Elizabeth,  Queen. 
Darcie,  A.     Annals   of  O.   Elizabeth. 

1625. 
Declaration  of  causes  moving  the  Q.  of 

England.     [1585.] 
Elizabeth,  Queen.     Verses  on.     [1560.] 
„  Speech.     [1602.] 

„  History  of.     [1700.] 

Forbes,   P.   State   Papers   of  Q.   Eliz. 

1740. 
Heywood,    T.      England's    Elisabeth. 
1632. 
Emblems. 
Alciatus.     1531. 
„  1542- 

,.  1544- 

„  1546. 

„  French.     1536. 

Ayres.     Embl.  oflove.     [1687.] 
Bocchius,    A.     Symbolicae  questiones. 

1555- 
Bomitius,  J.     Emblemata.     1664. 
Bruck,  J.     Emblemata.    161 5. 
Camerarius,  J.    Symbola.   1605. 
Cats,  J.     Spiegel,  &c.     1632. 
Chesneau,  A.    Orpheus  Eucharisticus. 

1657. 
CostaHus,  P.     Pegma.     1555. 
Custos,  R.     Emblemata.     1622. 
De  Bry.     Emblemata  nobilitati.     1593. 
Dolce,  L.     Imprese  Nobili.     1578. 
Emblems.     M.S. 

„  Elegantiss.  Embl.  Corpuscu- 

lum.     1696. 
Emblems.    Emblemata  pro  toga,  [j'.a.] 

„  Divine,  moral,  &c.     1673. 

Estienne,  H.     Art  of  Devises.     1648. 
Farley,  R.     Lychnocausia.     1638. 
Freitag,  Mythologia  Ethica.     1579. 
Furmerus,    B.       De   rerum    usu,    &c. 

1575- 
G.,  G.     The  Mirrourof  Maiestie.  1618. 
Gambara,  L.     Rerum  Sacrarum  liber. 

1577- 
Haeften,  B.     Schola  Cordis.     1647. 
Hall,  J.     Emblems.     [«.  </.] 
Hugo,  H.     L'Ame  amante.     1717. 


Emblems — continued. 
Junius,  H.     Emblemata.     1569. 
Lebeus-Batilhus.    Emblemata.     1596. 
Maccius,  P.     Emblemata.     1628. 
Majerus,  M.    Atalanta  Fugiens.     1618. 
Manasser,  D.     Poesis  tacens.     1630. 
Mannich,  J.    Sacra  Emblemata.    1624. 
Meichsner,  D.    Thesaurus  Sapientias. 

1626. 
Montenay,  G.  de.     EmblSmes.     1571. 

,,  „  Emblemata.     1584. 

Paradin,  C.    Devises  heroiques.     1 557. 
Parthenia  Sacra.     1633. 
Peacham,  H.    Minerva  Britanna.   1612. 
Quarles,  F.     Emblemes.     1635. 
i>  ,,  1639. 

Reusner,  N.    Emblemata.     1581. 

„  Emblematum  liber.    1591. 

Ripa,  C.  de.     Iconologia.     1709. 
Rollenhagius,  G.     Nucleus  Emblema- 
tum.    1611-13. 
Sambucus,  J.     Emblemata.     1564. 
Smids,  L.     Pictura  Loquens.     1695. 
Strada,  A.  de.     Simbola.     MS. 
Va^nius,    O.       Amorum    Emblemata. 

1598. 
Va2nius,0.  Emblemata  Horatiana.  1684. 
Weigelius,  J.     Ethica  naturalis.   \s.  a.] 
Englandes  Bright  Honour,  v.  Satyre 

Menippde. 
English     Courtier    and    the     Country 
Gentleman.     1586.     v.  Cyvile  and  Un- 
cyvile  life. 
English  History. 
Altieri,  B.  Al  Re  Edvardo  VI.     1550. 
Arnold's  Chronicle.     1503  and  1521. 
Asser  Menevensis.     1574. 
Bacon's  Henry  VII.     1622. 
Baker's  Chronicle.     1643. 
Bedae  Historia  Ecclesiastica.     \s.  ai\ 
»  „  „  1722. 

Brook,  Lord.    Five  yeares  of  K.  James. 

1643.     V.  Appendix: 
Buck,   G.      History    of    Richard    III. 

1647. 
Burleigh  State  Papers.     1759. 
Burnet,  Bp.    Works.     1816-23. 
Cabala.     1691. 

Camden,  W.     Anglica.     1602. 
Clanricarde,  Marquis.    Memoirs.    1757. 
Clarendon,  Lord.     Hist,  of  the  Rebel- 
hon.     1826. 


INDEX. 


1755 


English  History — cotiiiimed. 
Cole,  C.     State  Papers.    1733. 
Daniel,  S.     History  of  England.     1634. 
Darcie,  A.     Annals.     1625. 
Declaration  of  causes  moving  the  Q.  of 

England.     [1585.] 
Discours   des   troubles   en  Angleterre. 

1570. 
Dugdale,  W.     Baronage   of  England. 

1675-6. 
Dugdale,  W.     Late  troubles.     1681. 
Edward   IH.      Rationis    et    adpetitus 

pugna.     1612. 
Enderbie,   P.      Cambria    Triumphans. 

1661. 
Forbes,  P.     State  Papers.     1740. 
Froissart,  J.    Chroniques.   Paris.   \s.  ^/.] 
„         „     Chronicles.     1525. 

V  .,  1803-5- 

Fructus  Temporum.     Chronicle  of  St. 

Albans.     [//.  (/.] 
Fuller,  T.     Church  History.     1655. 
„  Appeal  of  Innocence.   1659. 

„  Ephemeris  Parliamentaria. 

1654. 
G.,  G.     Church  Historj'.     1674. 
G.,  R.     Letter  concerning  the  Duke  of 

Norfolk.     1 57 1. 
Gale    et    Fell.    Rerum  Anglic.    Scrip. 

Tomi  HI.     1684-91. 
Govvrie  Conspiracie.     1603. 
Grafton,  R.     Chronicle.     1569. 
Halle,  E.     Chronicle.     1548. 

»  ,.  1550- 

Harding,  J.     Chronicle.     1543. 
Harris,  W.  History  of  Will.  HI.    1749. 
Hayward,  Sir  J.  Lifeof  Henry  IV.  1599. 

„  „       Life    of   Edward    VI. 

1630. 
Hearne,  T.     Various  works  edited  by. 
Heath,  James.     Chronicle.     1663. 
Higden,  R.     Polycronicon.     1495. 

„  „  1528. 

Historia;  Anglic.  Scriptores  x.     1652. 
Lodge.  Illustrationsof  Br.  History.  1791. 
Luttrell,  W.   Historical  Narration.  1S57. 
Matthaji  Parisiensis,  Hist.  Major.  1640. 
Naunton,  R.  Fragmenta  Regalia.  1641. 
Prynne,  W.     Records.     1666-70. 
Rapin's  History  of  England.     1732-47. 
Rerum  Anglicarum  Scriptores.     1596. 
Rerum  Britannicarum  Scriptores.  1587. 


English  History — continued. 

Rosso,  G.  15.     Historia,  &c.     1558. 
Sandford,  F.    Gcnealog.  Hist,  of  Kings 

of  England.     1677. 
Sparke,  J.    Historia  Anglicanas  Scrip- 
tores.   1723. 
Stabbing,  S.     Genealog.  Hist,  of  Kings 

of  England.     1707. 
Stow,  J.     Chronicle  of  England.     1614. 

„  „        Summarie.     1604. 

Strafford,  E.  of.     Letters,  .Src.     1739. 
Strype,  J.     Works.     1820. 
Walsingham,  T.     De   Historia.     1574. 

V.  Appe7idix. 
White,  K.     Historiarum  Britannias  In- 

suliL".     1602. 
Whitelocke's  Memorials.     1732. 
English  Books  printed  in  the  isth  and 

1 6th  centuries. 
Admonition  to  Parhament.     1572. 

„  to  the  Bp.  of  Winchester, 

&c.    1553. 
jEneas  Sylvius.    Eurialus  &  Lucretia. 

1560. 
Agrippa,  H.  C.     Vanitie  of  Arts.    1569. 
Alexis,  G.    An  Interlocution.     [;/.  r/.] 
Allen,  Cardinal.     An  Apologie.     1581. 
Almanack  for  xv.  years.      [1522.]     v. 

Appendix. 
Almond  for  a  Parrot.     \ii.  d.] 
Amadis  of  Gaul,  Treasurie  of  [1567.] 
Andreas,  B.     Sermons.    1583. 
Answer  to  a  Godly  man's  letters.    1557. 
Anthony,  K.  of  Portugal.     1583. 
ApoUonius,     Prince,     Adventures    of 

1595- 
Apology  of  private  Masse.     1 562. 

„      A  Catholike  Apology.     [1588]. 

V.  Appendix. 
Apparel,  Epistles  concerning.     1566. 
Arthington's     Seduction     by     Hacket. 

[1592-] 
Arthur,  King.     Story  of.     1557. 

[1580.] 
Ashwell,  Letters  of  Prior.    [1540.] 
Askew,  Anne.     Examinations.     [//.  ^/.] 
Astley,  T.     Art  of  Riding.     1 584. 
Avale,  L.     Commemoration  of  Bonner. 

1569. 
Ayhner.    An  harborowe.     1559. 
Azores,  Fight  at  the.     1591. 
B.,  R.    The  auncient  Phisicke.     1585. 


1756 


INDEX. 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cent.— cwz/. 

Bacon's  Essays.     1597. 
„  1598. 

Baldwin.     Funerals  of  Edw.  VI.    1560. 

Baldwin.     Beware  the  Cat.     1 584. 

Bale,  J.   Romyshe  Fox.    1543. 
„  Sir  J.  Oldcastle.     1544. 

»  »  ,,  [1548.] 

„  Mystery  of  Iniquity.     1545. 

„  Apology.     [1551.] 

„  English  Votaries.     1551. 

„  Image  of  both  Churches.  [«.(/.] 

„  Bonner's  Articles.     1561. 

„  Pageant  of  Popes.     1 574. 

Bamford,  J.      Various  Works.      1599- 
1600.     V.  Appendix. 

Bancroft,  G.    Conspiracie  for  Reforma- 
tion.    1592.     V.  Appendix. 

Bandello,  Romeus  and  Juliet.     1562. 

Bastard,  T.     Chrestoleros.     1598. 

Batman  upon  Bartholomew.     1582. 

Becon's  Works.     1564. 

„       ReUcs  of  Rome.     1563. 

Bentley,  T.     Monument    of    Matrons. 
[1582.] 

Bernard,  St.     Meditations.     1496. 

Berners,  J.  Book  of  Hawking,  &c.  1 496. 

„  „  .,  ,.  1503- 

„  The  Gentlemen's  Academie. 

1595- 
Bertram,  The  book  of.   1 549.  v.  Appen- 
dix. 
Beza,  T.  Judgement  concerning  Bishops. 

[n.d.-\ 
Bieston,  R.  Bait  and  Snare  of  Fortune. 

1558. 
Boccaccio.     Falls  of  Princes.     1554. 
Bodrugan,  N.     King  of  England's  title 

to  Scotland.     1 548. 
Boemus,  J.    Fardle  of  facions.     1555. 
Boethius.  Consolat.  of  Philosophy.  1556. 
Bonaventure.     Life  of  Christ.     Caxton. 

\n.  d.] 
Bonaventure.     Life  of  Christ.     1525. 
Bonde,  W.     Devoute  Treatise.     1531. 
Bonner,  Bp.     Homilies.     1555. 
Book  of  Christian  Prayers.     1578. 

1608. 
Book  of  Merchants.     1 547. 
Borde,  A.     Breviary  of  Health.     1552. 
Bossewell,    J.      Workes    of   Armorie. 

1597.    V.  Appendix. 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cmt.—co?tt. 
Bourne,  W.     Art  of  Shooting.     1587. 
Bradford,  J.  Complaint  of  veritie.  1559. 

„  Two  notable  sermons.  1 599. 

Brandt,  S.  Ship  of  Fools.  1508. 
Brandt,  S.  Ship  of  Fools.  1570. 
Breton,  N.  Flourish  upon  Fancie.  1582. 

„  Wits  Trenchmour.     1597. 

Brice,  T.  Compendious  Register.   1559. 
Briefe  collection  of  texts.     1 549. 
Briefe  discovery  of  untruthes.     [1590.] 
Brief  discourse  of  Troubles  at  Frank- 
fort.    1575. 
Bright,  T.  Treatise  of  Melancholy.  1586. 
Brinklow,  H.     Complaint  of  R.  Mors. 

[1545-] 

Brinklow,  H.     Lamentation  of  a  Chris- 
tian.    1548. 

Broke,  T.     Certain  meditations.     1548. 

Broughton,  H.     Consent  of  Scripture. 
1596. 

Brunswick,  Jerome.     Book  of  distilla- 
tion.    1526. 

Bucer,  M.    Mind  and  exposition.    1566. 

Buchanan,  G.  Ane  detection.     [«.  d.] 

Bucke,  J.     Use  of  the  Beades.     1589. 

Bull.  The  holy  Bull  and  Crusado.  1588. 

BuUein,  W.    New  book  of  physic.    155S. 

Bullinger,    H.      Cohabitacyon    of   the 
Faithful.     1555.     v.  Appendix. 

Burleigh,  Lord.    Execution  of  Justice. 
1584- 

C,  W.    Discourse  of  Popish  apparelL 
1566. 

Cffisar's  Commentaries.     1 590. 

Calvin,  J.     Certaine  Homilies.     1553- 

Campion,  E.     Disputation.     1583. 

„  Testimony  against.  1582. 

Canons,  Booke  of.     1571. 

Cartier,  J.     Two  navigations.     1580. 

Casas,  B.  de  las.  Spanish  Colonie.  1583. 

Castaneda,  H.  L.  de.    Conquest  of  East 
Indies.     1582. 

Castiglione,  B.     The  Courtier.     1561. 

Chapman,  Geo.     The  shadow  of  night. 

1594- 
Chastising  of  God's  children.      \n.  d.\ 
Chaucer.     Canterbury  Tales.     [1478.J 

1526. 
„  Works.     1 542. 

[n.  d.] 
Cheke,  J.     Hurt  of  Sedition.     1569. 


INDEX. 


1757 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  ctxA.—cont. 
Christian  Rule.     [1550.] 
Christine  de  I'isan.     Fayttes  of  Arms. 

[1489.] 
Christine  de   Pisan.      City  of  Ladies. 

1521. 
ChristofersonJ.  Against  rebellion.  1554. 
Churchyard,  T.     Chippes.     1575. 
Churchyard,  T.     Warres  of  Flanders. 

1578. 
Churchyard,  T.     Churchyards   Choise. 

1579- 
Churchyard,  T.    Churchyardes  Charge. 

15S0. 
Churchyard,  T.     Worthines  of  Wales. 

1587. 
Churchyard,   T.      Churchyards    Chal- 
lenge.    1593. 
Churchyard,  T.  Musicall  Consort.  1595. 
Cicero.     Of  old  age.     1481. 
Clarke,  W.     Polimanteia.     1595. 
Codes,  B.     Phisionomie.     1550. 
Columna,  F.     Hypnerotomachia.    1592. 
Complaint  of  a  lover.     [1540.] 
Concordance.     1550. 
Coney  catching.     1 592. 
Cooper's  Chronicle.     1560. 
Cope,  A.  History  of  Anniball,  &c.  1544. 
Copley,  A.     Fig  for  Fortune.     1596. 
Corderius.    Principia.     1575. 
Cortes,  M.     Art  of  Navigation.     1589. 
Cotton,  R.     Spiritual  .Song.     1596. 

„  Armour  of  proof.     1 596. 

Court  of  Civil  Courtesie.     1591. 
Coverdale,   M.     State   of    Matrimony. 

1552. 
Coverdale,  M.     Letters  of  the  Martyrs. 

1564. 
Coverdale,  M.  Exhortation  to  swearers. 

1552. 
Crarmier,  T.    Catechism.     154S. 
„  Defence.    1550. 

„  Confutacion.     \ti.  d.] 

Crompton,  R.     End  of  Traitors.     1587. 
Crowley,  R.     Confutation.     1 548. 

„  Way  to   Wealth.     1550. 

V.  Appendix. 
Curio,   C.   S.     Pasquine    in    a    trance. 

[1566.] 
Cyvile  and  Uncyvile  life.     1579. 
D.,  G.  Dr.  Allen's  seditious  drifts.  1588. 
D.,  John.     Monstrous  Child.     1562. 

10 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cent.— co«/. 
Dana:us,  L.  Dialogue  of  Witches.   1575. 
Daniel,  S.     Poetical  Essays.     1599. 
„  Delia.     1592. 

„  Delia  and  Rosamond.  1594. 

„  Civil  Wars.     1595. 

Darius.    An  Interlude.     1565. 
Daunce,  E.     Discourse  of  the  Spanish 

State.     1 590. 
Declaration  of  causes  moving  the  Q.  of 

England.     [1585.] 
Declaration  of  the  favourable  dealing, 

&c.     1583. 
Desainliens,  C.   French  Schoolemaster. 

[•575.] 
Desainliens,  C.     Campo  di  Fior.    1583. 
„  Treasurie       of      the 

French  tongue.     1580. 
Desainliens,  C.    Fr.  Dictionary.    1593. 
„  Italian  Schoolemaster. 

'597- 
Devout  Treatise.     1534. 
Dewes,   G.     Introductorie   to   French. 

[1540.] 
Dictes  and  Sayings.  1477.  v.  Appendix. 
Discovery  of  a  Conspiracie  of  Scottish 

Papists.     1593. 
Disputation  at  Regensburg.     1542. 
Doctrinal  of  Sapience.     1489. 
Dowriche,   A.     The   French   Historie. 

1589. 
Drake,  Sir  F.     Summarie  and  true  dis- 
course.    1589. 
Drake,  Sir  F.  True  copy  of  a  discourse. 

1589. 
Drant,  T.     Medicinable  Morall.     1566. 
Drayton,  M.    Legend  of  Robert  of  Nor- 
mandy.    1596. 
Elviden,  E.     A  New  years  gift.     1570. 
Elyot,  Sir  T.     Of  that  Knowledge,  S:c. 

[1534.] 
Elyot,  Sir  T.     Castle  of  Health.     1541. 
„  Preservative         against 

death.     1545. 
Elyot,  Sir  T.     The  Governor.     1557. 
Emlyn.  Thebookof  maid  Emlyn.  [1530.] 
Epistles  and  Gospels.     [«.  (/.] 
Erasmus.    Praise  of  Folly.    1549. 

„  De  civilitate  morum.    1532. 

„  E.xpositionoftheCrede.  1533. 

„  Preparation  to  Death.    1543. 

„  Proverbs.     1545. 

E 


1758 


INDEX. 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cent.— co«A 

Essex,  Earl  of.    Funeral  Sermon.  1 577. 

Exhortation   concerning   Christendom. 
1583. 

F.,  T.     Newes  from  the  North.     1585. 

Fabyan,  R.     Chronicle.     1533. 
»  ,,  1542. 

»  ,.  1559- 

Fenton,  E.     Certaine  .Secret  wonders. 
1569. 

Fenton,  G.    Tragical  discourses.    1567. 

Feme,  J.     Blazon  of  Gentrie.     1586. 

Festival,  The.     1508. 

Fian,    Doctor.     News  from    Scotland. 
[1592.] 

Fisher,  Bishop  J.     Fruteful  Sayings  of 
David.     1525. 

Fisher,  Bishop  J.     Funeral  Sermon  on 
Henry  VII.     1509. 

Fisher,  Bishop  J.     Funeral  Sermon  on 
the  Duchess  of  Richmond.     [«.  </.] 

Fitzherbert,  J.     Surveying.     1539. 

„  Book  of  Husbandry.  1548. 

Fleming,  A.  Panoplie  of  Epistles.  1576. 

Flores,  J.     Historic  of  Aurelio.     1556. 

Flower  of  the  Commandments.     15 10. 

Fortress  of  the  Fathers.     1 566. 

Four  leaves  of  True  love.     [«.  rf.] 

Fox,  J.     Acts  and  Monuments.     1563. 

Frarin,  P.    Insurrections  of  the  Protes- 
tantes.     1 566. 

Fraunce,  A.     LaM7er's  Logic.     1588. 
„  Lamentations  of  Amintas. 

1588. 

Fraunce,   A.     Lady    Pembroke's    Ivy- 
church.     1 591. 

Fraunce,    A.     Lady   Pembroke's    Ivy- 
church.     3rd  pt.     1592. 

Fraunce,  A.     Lady  Pembroke's  Ema- 
nuel.    1591. 

Frith,  J.  Pistleto  the  Christian  Reader. 
1529. 

Frith,  J.  Boke  made  in  the  Tower.  1546. 

Froissart,  J.     Chronicles.     1523. 

Fructus  Temporum.     Chronicle  of  St. 
Albans.     [«.  </.] 

Fruit  of  Redemption.     1530. 

Fullonius,  Gul.     Comedy  of  Acolastus. 
1540. 

Fulwell,  U.     Flower  of  Fame.     1575. 

G.,  R.     Letter  concerning  the  Duke  of 
Norfolk.     1 57 1. 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cent.— ro«/. 
Gallant,  A  treatise  of  a.     [«.  dl\ 
Gardiner,  S.     Detection  of  the  Devil's 

Sophistrie.     1546. 
Gardiner,  S.     Declaration  of  such  true 

articles,  &c.     1546. 
Gardiner,  S.    Explication,  &c.    1551. 

„  De  vera  obedientia.   1553. 

Garter,  B.     The  joyful  receiving  of  Q. 

Elizabeth.     [1578.] 
Garter,  B.    A  New  Yeares  Gifte.    1579. 
Garzoni,  T.    The  Hospitall  of  Incurable 

Fooles.     1600. 
Gascoigne,  G.     Works.     1587. 

,,  A    Hundreth    sundrie 

Flowres.     1573. 
Gascoigne,  G.    Posies  of  G.  G^cpigne. 

1575- 

Gascoigne,  G.    The  Steele  Glas.    1576. 
„  Droome  of  Domesday. 

1576. 

Gascoigne,  G.     Droome  of  Domesday. 
1586. 

Gates,  G.    Defence  of  Militarie  Profes- 
sion.    1579. 

Gerrard,  P.     Godly  Invective.     1547. 

Gesner,  C.    New  Jewel  of  health.   1576. 

Gibbon,  C.    Not  so  new  as  true.    1590. 

Giffard,  G.     A  discourse  of  subtil  prac- 
tises.    1587. 

Gilby,  A.  Answer  to  Gardiner.  1 547. 
„        Of  election.    [1556.] 
„        A  pleasant  dialogue.     1581. 

Gilpin,  G.    The  Beehive  of  the  Romish 
Church.     1580. 

Gomara,  F.  L.  de.     Pleasant  historie  of 
the  conquest  of  the  West  India.  1578. 

Gomara,  F.  L.  de.    Pleasant  historie  of 
the  conquest  of  the  West  India.  1596. 

GonqalezMendoga.  Hist.  ofChina.  1588. 

Goodman,  Chr.    How  Superior  powers, 
&c.     1558. 

Googe,  B.     Eglogs,  S:c.     1563. 

Gosson,S.  Ephemeridesof  Phialo.  1586. 
„  School  of  Abuse.     1587. 

„  Quippes   for    Gentlewomen. 

1595- 
Gower,  J.     Confessio  Amantis.  1483. 

»         1532- 
Grafton,  R.     Chronicle.     1 569. 
Grammar,Ashorteintroduction  of  1597. 
Grange,].  The  Golden  Aphroditis.  1577. 


INDEX. 


I7S9 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  ctn\..—cont. 
Greene,  R.    Morando.     1587. 

„  Euphues  censure.     1587- 

„  Ciceronis  Amor.     1589. 

„  The  Spanish  Masqucrado. 

1589. 
Greene,  R.  Notable  discovery  of  cosen- 

age.     1592. 
Greene,   R.     Second   part    of    Conny- 

catching.     1591. 
Greene,  R.     Quip  for  an  upstart  Cour- 
tier.    1 592. 
Greene,  R.    Mamillia.     1593. 

„  Groatsworth  of  wit.     1596. 

„  Scottish  Historic  of  James 

IV.     1598. 
Greene,  R.     Orpharion.     1599. 

„  Orlando  Furioso.     1599. 

Griffin,  B.     Fidessa.     1596. 
Grindal,  E.     Sermon.     1564. 
Gringoire,  P.     The  Castell  of  Laboure. 

[1500.] 
Groom  Porter's  Lawes  at  Mawe.  [1580.] 
Guazzo,  S.    Civile  Conversation.     1586. 
H.,  H.  Consultorie  for  Christians.  1549. 
Hakluyt,  R.     Voyages.     1589. 

„  „  1 598-1600. 

Hales,  Judge.     Communication.     1553. 
Hall,  Jos.     Virgidemiarum.     1599. 
Halle,  E.     Chronicle.     1548. 

1550- 
Harding,  J.     Chronicle.     1543. 
Harding,  T.  Confutation  of  Jewel.   1565. 
Harington,  J.    Metamorphoses  of  Ajax. 

1596. 
Hariot,  T.     Virginia.     1588. 
Hamian,  T.  Caveat  for  Cursetors,  1 567. 

»  »  I)         '567- 

„  Groundworke    of    Conny 

Catching.     [1592.] 
Harrison,  J.      Exhort,   to  the  Scottes. 

1547. 
Hart,  J.     An  Orthographic.     1 569. 
Harte,  H.     Godly  Treatise.   1548. 
Harvey,  G.     Pierce's    Supererogation. 

1593- 
Harvey,  G.     New  Letter.     1593. 

„  Trimming  of    T.    Nashe. 

1597- 
Hawes,  S.     Exempel  of  Vertue.     1530. 
„  Conversion     of     Swerers. 

[1540.] 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  zcnX.—cont. 
Hawcs,  S.  Historieof  graunde  Amoure. 

1554- 
Henry  VIII.    The  Glasse  of  the  Truth. 

'534- 
Herman  de  Wida.    Consultation.    1547. 
„  „  Duty     of     married 

folks,     [n.  d:\ 
Higden,  R.     Polycronicon.     1495. 
„  „         1528. 

Hilary,  H.    Resurrection  of  the  Masse. 

1554- 
Hill,  T.     Almanack.     1571. 
Hilton,  W.     Scala  Perfectionis.     1494. 

M  )»  It  ^533* 

Hitchcock,  R.     A  politique  plot.    1580. 
Holinshed,  R.     Chronicles.     1577. 

J)  )>  )>  •587- 

Holme,  W.  The  Fall  of  Rebellion.  [«.  d.\ 
Homilies.     1547. 
1563- 
Hooker,  R.  Ecclesiastical  Politic.  [1595.] 
Hooper,  Bp.  Answer  to  Gardiner.  1547. 
„  Declarationof  Christ.  1547. 

„  Declaration  of  the  Com- 

mandments.    1548. 
Hooper,  Bp.     Declaration  of  the  Com- 
mandments.    1550. 
Hooper,  Bp.  Godly  Confession.  [1551.] 
Horace,  his  art  of  Poetry.     1567. 
Hurlestone,    R.     Newes    from    Rome. 

[1560.] 
Indagine,J.  Introd.  to  Chiromancy.  1558. 
Injunctions  of  Edw.  VI.     1547. 
Institution  of  a  Christian  Man.     1537. 
Interrogatories  of  Queen  Mary.     1558. 
James  I.     Poetical  Exercises.     1591. 

„  Demonology.     1597. 

Jewell,  Bp.     Copies  of  Letters.     1560. 
,,  Apologie.     1562. 

„  Reply  to  Harding.     1565. 

„  Defence  of  the  Apologie. 

1567. 
Jovius,  Paulus.  Discourse  of  rare  inven- 
tions.    1585. 
Joye,  Geo.     Refutation  of  Bp.  of  Win- 
chester.    1 546. 
Justice  of  the  Peace.     1538. 
Kcmpe,  \V.     Dutiful  Invective.     1587. 
Kempis.     Imitation  of  Christ.     1568. 
Knewstub,  J.     Confutation  of  Heresies. 
1 579- 


1760 


INDEX. 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  ccxA.—cont. 

Knox,  J.     Faythfull  admonition.     1554. 
„  Godly  Letter.     1554. 

„  First  blast.     155S. 

„  Sermon.     1566. 

Kyffin,  M.  The  Blessednes  of  Brytaine. 
158S. 

Laet,  A.     An  Almanack.     1 548. 

Laneham,  R.    Entertainment  at  Kenil- 
worth.     [1575.] 

Langham,  W.  Garden  of  Health.  1579. 

Langland,  W.     Vision  of  Pierce  Plow- 
man.    1550. 

Langland,  W.     Vision  of  Pierce  Plow- 
man.    1 56 1. 

Lanterne  of  Light.     [«.  di\ 

LaPerriere,W.  Mirrourof  Policie.  1598. 

Latimer,  H.     Sermon  in  the  Shrowdes. 
1548. 

Latimer,  H.     Sermon  in  the  Shrowdes. 

1549. 
Latimer,  H.  Sermon  at  Stamford.  1550. 
„  Sermons.     1571. 

„  „  1584- 

Lavater,  L.     OfGhostes.     1572. 

,,  .,  ,.  1596. 

Leland,  J.  Search  for  Antiquities.  1 549. 
Lentulo,  S.     Italian  Grammar.     15S7. 
Letter  from  a  banished  Minister.    1554. 
Lever,  T.     Sermon.     1550. 
Linche,  R.    Fountain  of  Fiction.    1599. 
Linschoten,  J.  H.     Voyages.     1598. 
Lloyd,  H.     Historie  of  Cambria.     1584. 
Lloyd,  L.    Pilgrimage  of  Princes.  1 586. 
Lodge,  T.     Rosalynde.     1592. 

„  Wits  Miserie.     1596. 

„  The  Divel  conjured.    1596. 

Lok,  H.     Ecclesiastes.     1597. 
Lomatius,  J.  P.     Artes  of  Painting,  &c. 

159S. 
Longus.     Daphnis  &  Chloe.     1587. 
Lupset,  T.     Workes.     1 546. 

„  „  1560. 

„  Of  dying  well.     1541. 

Lupton,  T.     Sivquila.     1587. 

„        Pt.  2.     1581. 

„  Persuasion  from  Papistrie. 

1581. 
Lydgate,  J.     History  of  Troy.     1513. 

,,  »  „         1555- 

„  Churle  and  Bird.     [1555.] 

Lyly,  J.    Campaspe.     15S4, 


ENGtlSH  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cent. — cont. 
Lyly,  J.  Euphues.  Anat.  ofWit.    1585. 
„     Euphues.     1586. 
1598- 
„     Euphues  and  his  England.  1 586. 
I)  n  i>  )>  1588. 

,.  »  »  .,  1597- 

Malbie,  N.  Remedies  for  Horses.  1594. 
Mantuan,  B.     Eglogs.     1567. 
Manual  of  Prayers.     1539. 
Manwood,  J.     Forest  Laws.     1598. 
Markham,  G.     Horsemanship.     1593. 
Marshall,  G.  Original  of  Sacrifice.  1554. 
Marston,  J.    Scourge  of  Villanie.    1 598. 
Martin  Mar-Prelate.     Oh  read  over  D. 

John  Bridges.     [1588,] 
Martin  Mar-Prelate.     Oh  read  over  D. 

John  Bridges.     Part  2.     [1588.] 
Martin  Mar-Prelate.    Hay  any  work  for 

Cooper.     \ii.  d!\ 
Martin  Mar-Prelate.  Protestacion.  \n.d!\ 
„  „     Theses  Martinianse.  [«.rf.] 

„  „     Just  Censure.     [«.  rf.] 

„  „     Pappe   with   an  hatchet. 

\n.  rf.] 
Martin  Mar-Prelate.    Martin's  Month's 

minde.     [«.  d!\ 
Martin,  T.    The  Marriage  of  Priests. 

1554- 
Martyr,  P.  Decades  of  the  New  World. 

IS5S- 
Martyr,  P.  Decades  of  the  New  World. 

1577- 
Martyrolog)-.  Martiloge  in  English.  1526. 
Mass,  A  treatise  of  the.    1 554. 
Menewe,Gr.  Sacrament  under  one  kind. 

Menewe,Gr.  Auricular  confession.  [«.(/.] 

„  On  Justification.     [«.  d.\ 

Mexia,  P.     Forest  of  Histories.     1576. 
Middleton,  T.    Wisdome  of  Solomon. 

1597- 
Mirror  for  Magistrates.     1559. 

,.  1563- 

»                 ,■  1571- 

»                 ,.  1574- 

»                ,.  IS75- 

»                »  1578. 

»                ,,  1587- 
Mirror  of  the  World.      [1490.] 

[i5>o] 
Mirror  of  Christ's  Passion.    1534. 


INDEX. 


1761 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  ctxA.—cont. 
Mirror  of  Princely  Deeds.     [1578.] 
.1  1,  »  in.d.\ 

„  „  2nd  pt.     1599. 

»  ,,  Srdpt.     [n.ii.] 

„  „  6th  Book.    1598. 

„  „  7th  Book.    1598. 

„  „  8th  Book.     1599. 

Moffat,  T.     Silkworms,  &c.     1599. 
More,  Sir  T.  Worlvs.     1557. 
„  „       Utopia.     1551. 

»         »  ,.  1556. 

„         „      Life  of  Jo.  I'icus.    [«.(/.] 
„  „      Thesupplycacyonofsoulys. 

[«.  d] 
More,  Sir  T.     Dialoge  of  Images,  &c. 

1530- 
More,  SirT.  Debellacyon  of  Salem,  &c. 

1533- 
More,  SirT.  Dialogue  of  Comfort.  1573. 
Morison,  R.    Invective  against  treason. 

1539- 

Morley,  T.  First  Book  of  Ballctts.  1595. 

„         Madrigals  to  5  Voyces.  1598. 

„  „  to  4  Voyces.  1600. 

Morton,  T.    Nature  of  God.     1 599. 

Mote,   H.     The  Primrose  of  London. 

1585. 
Moulton,  T.    Myrrour  of  Health.  [«.  d.] 
Mulcaster,  R.     Positions.     1581. 

„  Of  the  English  Tongue. 

1582. 
Mumchance,  Mihil.     Art  of  Cheating. 

1597- 
Munday,  A.  Mirror  of  Mutabilitie.  1 579. 
Munday,  A.    Advertisement  for  Truth. 

1581. 
Munday,  A.  A  Watch-word  to  England. 

1584. 
Munday,  A.    The  English  Roman  Life. 

1582. 
Munday,  A.  A  Banquet  of  Daintie  con- 
ceits.    1588. 
Nash,  T.  A Countercuffeto Martin.  1589. 
„         Returne  of  Pasquil.     1589. 
„         First  part  of  Pasquil's  Apo- 
logie.     1589.  * 
Nash,  T.  Pierce  Penilesse  his  supplica- 
tion.    1592. 
Nash,  T.    Strange  N ewes.    1593. 
„        Christ's  Teares.     1593. 
;.  ..  »  1594- 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cent— conf. 

Nash,  T.  Have  with  you  to  Saffron  Wal- 
den.     1596. 

Nash,  T.  Nashes  Lenten  Stuffe.     1599. 

Necessary  Doctrine.     1543.    Sm.  Svo. 
>,'  „  1543-   4to. 

Nelson,  T.    Shorte  Discourse.     [1586.] 

New  Custom.     1573. 

Newton,  S.  Hist,  of  the  Saracens.  1575. 

Nichodcmus.    Gospell.     1 5 11. 

Nicolas,  H.     Comoedia.     [1570.J 

„  Documental     Sentences. 

[•570.] 

Nicolas,  H.     First  Epistle.     [1574.] 
,,  EvangeliumRegni.[i574.] 

„  Proverbia.     [1574.] 

„  Revelatio  Dei.     [1574.] 

Norden,  J.  Speculum  Britanniae.  1593. 

N orris.  Sir  J.    News  from  Brest.    1594. 

Northampton,  Earl  of.  Defensative,  &c. 

1583- 
Northbrooke,  J.     A  Treatise  of  Dicing. 

['577-J 
Northbrooke,  J.    A  Treatise  of  Dicing. 

'579- 
Norton,  T.     To  the  Queenes  subjects. 

1569. 
Norton,  T.    To   the  Queenes  subjects. 

2nd  ed.     1569. 
Norton,  T.    A  Warning,    [n.  d.] 
ABull,  &c.    [1570.] 
,,  DisclosingofthegrcatBull. 

[n.  d] 
Norton,  T.    An  addition  declaratorie. 

[1570.] 
Olde,  J.     Confession  of  the  Old  Faith. 

1556. 
Orchard  of  Syon.     15 19. 
Order  of  the  Communion.     1 548. 
Order  of  Matrimony,     [n.  d.] 
Order  of  the  Hospitals.     1552. 
Orders  set  down  by  the  D.  of  Medina. 

1588. 
Ordinary  for  all  faythfull  Christ.  [1541.] 
Ordinary  of  Christian  men.     1506. 
Os,  facies,  mentum.     [«.  d.] 
Osorius,  H.     Epistle  to  O.  Eliz.     1565. 
„  Learned  Treatise.     1 568. 

Painter,  W.     The  Palace  of  Pleasure. 

1567-75. 
Palingenius,  M.   Zodiake  of  Life.   1561. 
ij  »  11         1588. 


1762 


INDEX. 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cent— ccw/. 
Palmendos,  Historic  of.     1589. 
Paradise  of  dainty  devices.     1585. 
Parker,  H.     Dives  and  Pauper.    1493. 
Parker,  Abp.     Defence  of  Priests  mar- 
riages.    [«.  di\ 
Parker,  Abp.    Life  of  the  70th  Abp.  of 

Canterbury.     1574. 
Parry,  W.  Declaration  of  horrible  trea- 
sons.    1585. 
Parsons,  R.  Christian  Directorie.  1585. 

„  Conference  about  the  suc- 

cession.    1593. 
Partridge,  J.     Hist,  of  Plasidas.     1566. 
Parvula.     W.  de  IVorde.     [k.  </.] 
Pasquin's  Recantation.     1570. 
Peele,  G.    Battle  of  Alcazar.     1594. 

„  David  and  Bathsheba.  1599. 

„  Edward  I.     1599. 

„  Two  Valiant  Knights.    1599. 

Pestilence.  Howandwhithertoflie.  1566. 
Peter's  Fall.     1585. 
Petition  of  the  Commonaltie.     1588. 
Petronylla.     \n.  di\ 
Pettie,  G.     Petite  Palace.    [«.  d^^ 
Philpot,  John.     Disputation.     1554. 
Pigafetta,  F.    Reporte  of  Congo.     1597. 
Pilkington,  J.  Burning  of  S.  Paul's.  1563. 
Piatt,  H.  Remedies  agst.  Famine.  1596. 
Ploughman,  Prayer  and  Complaint  of. 

[«. «'.] 
Plutarch.    Governance  of  good  health. 

[1540.] 
Ponet,  J.    Of  politike  power.     \ii.  d.'\ 

„  Apologie.    1556. 

Proclamation  of  Jesus  Christ.     [//.  d!\ 
Proctor,  J.     The  fall  of  the  late  Arrian. 

1549- 

Proctor,  J.     History  of  Wyates  Rebel- 
lion.   1554. 

Psalms  of  David.     1530. 
,,  1549- 

[I575-] 
,,  „  1598. 

Puttenham,  G.     English  Poesie.    1589. 

Quest  of  Enquir)'.     1595. 

Questionary  of  Chirurgeons.     [1542.] 

R.,  W.    The  English  Ape.     1588. 

Raleigh,  Sir  W.   Discoverie  of  Guiana. 
1596. 

Rankins,  W.     A  Mirrour  of  Monsters. 
1587. 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  zexA.—cont. 
Recorde,  R.  Whetstone  of  Witte.  1557. 
Regimen  Sanitatis  Salerni.     1541. 
Remedy  for  Sedition.    1536. 
Reynolds,  W.    Refutation  of  Whitaker. 

1583- 
Rhodes,  H.    Boke  of  Nurtur.     [«.  </.] 
Rice,  R.  An  invective  against  vice.  1579. 
Rich,  B.     Alarm  to  England.     1578. 

„  Green's  news.     1593. 

Richard  Coeur-du-Lion.     1528. 
Ridley,  N.     Conferences.     1556. 

„  1556- 

Ripley,  G.  Compound  of  Alchymy.  1591. 
Robin  Hood,  A  merry  Jest  of  [i594-] 
Robinson,  R.     Reward  of  Wickedness. 

[•576.] 
Rolle,  R.    Contemplations.    [«.  d.'] 
Rowlands,  R.  Post  of  the  World.  1576. 
Royal  Book.     W.  Caxton.     \n.  d.~\ 
S.,  W.     Answer  to  the  Rebels.    1569. 
Saint-German.    Dialogue  in  Englysshe. 

[1530.] 
Saint- German.     Spiritualtie  and  Tem- 

poraltie.     [«.  di\ 
Sallust.    History  of  the  Jugurthine  War. 

[1510.] 
Sallust.   Conspiracy  of  Cataline.  1541. 
Sansovino,  F.  Quintessenceofwit.  1590. 
Savile,  H.  Libel  of  Spanish  Lies.  1596. 
Saviolo,  V.     His  Practice.     1595. 
Schoolhouse  of  Women.     1560. 
Scot,  R.    Platforme  of  a  Hop  Garden. 

1576. 
Segar,  Sir  W.    Book  of  Honor.    1590. 
Selimus,  Tragicall  raigne  of    1 594. 
Seneca.    His  tenne  Tragedies.    15S1. 

„        Thyestes.     1 560. 

„        Troas.     [1560.] 

„        Oldipus.     1563. 

„         Medea.     1 566. 

„        Octavia.     1566. 
Sidney,  P.    Arcadia.    1590. 

„  Astrophel  and  Stella.  1591. 

Silvayn,  A.    The  Orator.     1 596. 
Silver,  G.  Paradoxes  of  Defence.  1599. 
Skelton,  J.     Certain  bokes.     [1550.] 

,,  ,,  „        [1560.] 

„  Colyn  Clout.     [1550.] 

„  Why  come  ye  not  to  Court. 

['550-] 


INDEX. 


1763 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  c&rA.—cont. 
Skelton,  J.   Why  come  ye  not  to  Court. 

[1560.] 
Skelton,  J.     Phyllyp  Sparowe.     [1550.] 

..  »  ,,  ['S^o-] 

„  Merie  Tales.     [1567.] 

Smith,  H.  Wedding  Garment.     1590. 

„  Fruitful!  sermon.     1591. 

„  Sinner's  conversion.     1 594. 

„  Three  prayers.     1591. 

Smith,  W.  Jests  of  the  Widow  Edith. 

1575- 
Smith,  W.     Chloris.     1596. 
Smyth,  R.     Tragicall  Histories.     1577. 
Some,  R.     Godly  Treatise.     1588. 
Southwell,  R.  Epistle  of  Comfort.  [1593.] 
„  St.  Peter's  complaint.  1595. 

„  Msoniffi.     1595. 

Spain.  Vsage  of  English  Fugitives.  1595. 
„      Stateof  English  Fugitives.  1595. 

;.  ,,  ,.  „  1596. 

Spanish  Armada.  Copie  ofaletter.  1588. 
Spenser,  E.  Shepheardes' Calendar.  1 579. 

I)  i>  »  1581. 

„  Faerie  Queen.     1590-96. 

„  Complaints.     1 591. 

„  Amoretti.     1595. 

„  Prothalamion.     1 596. 

„  Colin  Clout.     1595. 

„  Fowre  Hymns.     1596. 

„  Three  Letters.     1580. 

Stanbridge.    Vulgaria.    [«.  rf.] 
Statutes  of  Henry  VII.     1508. 
Stile,  C.    Psalmes  of  Invocation.    1588. 
Still,  J.  Gammer  Gurton's  needle.  1575. 
Stubbes,  J.  Discoverie  of  a  gaping  gulf. 

1579- 
Stubbs,  P.  Treason  of  Dr.  Parrie.  1585. 
„  Anatomic  of  Abuses.     1595. 

„  Christal  Glasse.     1592. 

Summoning  of  every  man.     \ii.  d^ 
Supplication  to  Henry  VIII.     [«.  ^.] 
Sutcliffe,   M.      Practice  and   Laws   of 

Arms.     1 593. 
Tales.     The  100  merry  tales.     [1525.] 
Tales  and  quicke  answers.     [1549.] 
Tedder  and  Tyrrell.  Recantations.  1588. 
Terence.    Flowers  or  Eloquent  phrases. 

1581. 
Testament,  The  New.    1534. 
»  ))      ))        1538. 

)>  »      »        1538. 


English  Books,  isth  &  i6th  czxA.—cont. 
Testament,  The  New.    1538. 
j>  >i      )i        1547-8. 

,.       '    »      ,.        1549- 
»  ).      ,.        »550- 

.,      „        [>553-] 
,.  ,,      »        1557- 

»>  »       »        I571- 

>.  „      ,,        1582. 

„  „      „        1600. 

Testimony  of  Antiquity.     [1567.] 
Thevet,  F.  A.     The  New  found  World. 

1568. 
Thomas,  W.     History  of  Italy.     1549. 

„  Italian  Grammar.     1550. 

Throckmorton,  F.     Discoverie  of  Trea- 
sons.    1584. 
Tooker,  W.     Fabrique  of  the  Church. 

1597- 
Torquemada,  A.  de.     Spanish  Mande- 

vile.     i6qo. 
Tracy,  W.     Testament.     1535. 
Traheron,  B.     Exposition.     1557. 
Travers,  W.     Ecclesiastical  discipline. 

1574- 
Tribulation,  XII  Profits  of.     1530. 
Tunstall,  Bp.    Sermon.     1539. 

„  LettertoCard.  Pole.  1560. 

Turbervile,  G.     Epitaphes,  &c.     1570. 

„  Faulconrie  and  Hunt- 

ing.    1575. 
Turner,  W.     The  Old  learning.     1537. 

„  A  newe  Dialogue.    [1550.] 

„  Hunting  the  Romish  Fo.\. 

1543. 
Turner,  W.     Book  of  Wines.     1 568. 

„  Herbal.     1568. 

Tusser,  T.     Good  Husbandry.     1577. 

»  ).  „  1580- 

I)  »  IT  1586. 

Twyne,  T.     Garland  of  Godly  flowers. 

1574- 
Twyne,  T.     The  Schoolmaster.     1576. 
Tyndale,  Fryth,  and  Barnes.     Works. 

1573- 

Tyndale.  Parable  of  the  Wicked  Mam- 
mon.    1538. 

Tyndale.  Parable  of  the  Wicked  Mam- 
mon.    \ii.  c/.] 

Tyndale.  Exposition  of  S.  John.  1531. 
„  Obedience  of  a  Christian 
Man.     1535. 


1764 


INDEX. 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cent.— con/. 
Tyndale.     Declaration  of   the   Sacra- 
ments.    1552. 
Tyro's  Roring  Megge.     1598. 
Udall,  N.     Floures  for  Latin  speaking. 

1533- 
Veron,  J.    Marriage  of  priests,    [n.  </.] 
Virgil.     Eneid.     By  T.  Phaer.     1562. 

),  »  ))  1584- 

„  „       By  Stanyhurst.     1 583. 

„         Eneydos.     1490. 
„         Bucolics.     By  Fleming.     1589. 

Vives,  L.     Introd.  to  Wisdom.     1540. 

Von  der  Noodt,  J.     Theatre  of  World- 
lings.    1569. 

Voragine,  J.  de.    Golden  Legend.   1493. 

)>  )>  ))  )»         '5-7* 

Warner,  W.     Albions  England.     1589. 

„  Syrinx.     1597. 

Warning  for  fair  women.     1599. 
Warren,  W.    Nurcerie  of  names.    1581. 
Watson,  T.    Holsome  doctrine.    1558. 
„  Two  Sermons.     1554. 

„  Passionate  Centurie.  1582. 

„  Madrigalls.     1590. 

Weelkes,  T.     Madrigals.     1597. 
WentworthjP.  Pithie  exhortation.  1598. 
Wermylierus,0.  A  spiritual  perle.  [//.</.] 
Whether  Christian  Faith  may  be  kept 

secret.     1553. 
Whetstone,  G.     Heptameron.     15S2. 
„  Honorable    reputation 

of  a  soldier.     1585. 
Whetstone,  G.     Mirror  for  Magistrates. 

1584. 
Whetstone,  G.    English  Myrror.     1586. 
„  Censure  of  a  loyal  sub- 

ject.    1587. 
Whetstone,  G.     Censure  of  a  loyal  sub- 
ject.    2nd  edition.     15S7. 
Whitford,  R.     Pype  or  Tonne  of  perfec- 
tion.    1532. 
Whitford,  R.     Werke  for  householders. 

1533- 

Whitgift,  J.     Answer  to  the  Admoni- 
tion.   1572. 

Whitney,  G.     Emblems.     1586. 

Wickliffe's  Wicket.     [«.  rf.] 

„         True  copy  of  a  Prolog.    1550. 

Wilbye,  J.  First  set  of  Madrigals.  1 598. 

Wilkinson,  W.    Confutation  of  Family 
of  love.     1 579. 


English  Books,  15th  &  i6th  cent.— coni. 
Wilson,  T.   Rule  of  reason.     1 567. 
„  Art  of  Rhetoric.     1 567. 

„  Discourseuponusury.  1572. 

Wyrley,  W.  True  use  of  Armorie.  1592. 
Zwinglius,  H.    Declara.  of  Faith.    1543. 
English  Books  printed  abroad. 
Allen,  Card.     Apologie.     Mons.     1581. 
Anthony,  K.  of  Portugal.  Leyden.  1585. 
Apparell,  Epistles  on.     1566. 
Arnold's  Chronicle.     Antwerp.     1503. 
Aylmer's  Harborowe.     Strasb.     1559. 
Bale's  Romyshe  Fox.     Zurich.     1543. 
„       Sir  J.  Oldcastle.  \AIarp}irg^  1S47. 
„      Anne  Askewe.    Mar  pur g.    1547. 
„       Mysterie  of  Iniquity.     Geneva. 

1545- 
Becket,  St.  Thomas  \  Life  of.    Cologne. 

1639. 
Bellarmine's  Catech.    Augsburg.    1614. 
Bible.     Zurich.     1550. 

„         Geneva.     1 560. 

„        Rouen.     1566. 

„         Doway.     1610. 

„        Pentateuch.     Marpurg.     1530. 
Brief  discourse  of  thetroubles  at  Franck- 

fort.     1575. 
Brinklow,  H.     Complaint  of  R.  Mors. 

Geneva.     [1545.] 
Bucer,  M.  Mind  and  exposition.  Emb- 

ifen.     1566. 
Bucke,  J.    Use  of  the  Beades.    Lovain. 

1589. 
Burgo,  T.  de.  Catechism.  Lisbon.  1752. 
Chambers,    R.      Palestina.      Florence. 

1601. 
Declaration  of  True  causes.     1592. 
Exhortation  concerning  Christendome. 

Antwerpe.     1583. 
Fenner,  D.  Art  of  Logic.   Middleburgh. 

1584. 
Fenner,  D.     Song  of  Songs.    Middle- 
burgh.    1587. 
Flores,  J.  de.    Hist,  of  AureUo.    Antw. 

1556. 
Frarin,  P.    Insurrection  of  Protestants. 

Antw.  1566. 
Fraser,   J.     Offer  to  a   Gentleman   of 

Quality.     1605. 
French,  N.     Unkinde  deserter.     1676. 
„  Doleful    fall    of  Andrew 

Sail.    1674. 


INDEX. 


1765 


Engmsh  Books  printed  abroad — cont. 
Frith,  J.  Pistlc  to  the  Christian  Reader. 

Marpurg.     1529. 
Geninges,  E.  Life  of.  St.  Oiiwrs.  1614. 
Goodman,  Chr.     Geneva.     1558. 
Gordon,  Pat.    History  of  Robert  Bruce. 

Dort.     1615. 
Harding,  T.     Confutation.     Antwerp. 

1565. 
Herbert,  Lady  L.     On  hearing   Mass. 

B7-itgcs.     1 742. 
Hilary,  H.     Resurrection  of  the  Mass. 

Strasburg.     1554. 
Hooper,  Bp.   Answer  to  Gardiner.    Zu- 
rich.    1 547. 
Hooper,   Bp.      Declaration   of  Christ. 

Zurich.     1 547. 
Knox,  J.     Godly  Letter.     1554. 

„  Faythfull  Admonition.   1554. 

„  P'irst  Blast.     1558. 

Lyndsay,  D.     Papingo.     Paris.     1558. 
Martin,  G.     Corruption  of  Scriptures. 

Rhcincs.     1582. 
More,   Sir  T.      Dialogue   of   Comfort. 

Antwerp.     1573. 
Nicolas,  H.  Comcedia,  and  other  works. 

[1570-74.] 
Os,  Facies,  Mentum.    Antwerp.   [«.  c/.] 
Osorius,  H.     Epistle  to  Q.  Eliz.     Ant- 
werp.    1 565. 
Osorius,   H.     Learned  Treatise.     Lou- 
vain.     1568. 
P.,  H.    Digitus  Dei.    Rotterdam.    1631. 
Patterson,  M.   Image  of  both  Churches. 

1623. 
Perrault,  M.    Histories  of  passed  times. 

1785. 
Philpot,  J.     Disputation.    Basil.     1554. 
Ploughman.      Prayer    and    complaint. 

[^Antwerp,  n.  ^.] 
Plowden,  P.    Farrago.     1733. 
Psalms  of  David.    Strasburg.     1 530. 
Reynolds,  W.    Refutation  of  Whitaker. 

Paris.     1583. 
Roy,  W.     Rede  me.     \\Voriiis.  1527.] 
Southwell,  R.  Epistle  of  comfort.  1593. 
Strange,  R.     Life  of  Cantilupe.     Cant. 

1674. 
Talbot,  P.    The  polititian's  Catechism. 

Antwerp.     1658. 
Talbut,  P.  The  Friar  disciplined.  Cant. 

1674. 


10 


English  Books  printed  abroad — cont. 
Testament,  The  New.    Antwerp.  1534. 
„  „  Paris.     1538. 

„  „  Geneva.     1557. 

„  „  Rhcincs.     1582. 

„  ,,  Antwerp.    1600. 

„  Dort.     1603. 

Turner,  W.     Hunting  the  Romish  Fox. 

Basil.     1543. 
Turner,  VV.     Rescuing  of  the  Romish 

Fox.     [1545.] 
Turner,  W.      Hunting  of  the  Romish 

Wolf.    {n.  d:\ 
Turner,  W.     Herbal     Collen.     1568. 
Tyndale,  W.  St.  John.     [Aiztw.]     1531. 
Tyndale,  \V.  Wicked  Mammon.  .Marl- 

borow.     1528. 
Tyndale,  W.    Obedience  of  a  Christian 

Man.     Marlborow.     1535. 
Verstegan,  R.    Odes.    [Ant v.  1601.] 

„  Restitution,  yiw/w.  1605. 

Wadding,L.  History  of  S.Clare.  Doway. 

'635- 
Wheeler,   J.      Treatise  of  Commerce. 

Middelburgh.     1 60 1. 
Whether  Christian  faith  may  be  kept 

secret.     1553. 
Whitaker,   T.     Blood    of   the    Grape. 

Hague.     1654. 
Whitney,  G.    Emblems.    Leyden.  1586. 
Wodroephe,  J.    Spared  Hours  of  a  Sol- 
dier.    Dort.     1623. 
Zwinglius,  H.  Declaration  of  Faith.  1543. 
Engravers,  Dictionary  of.    v.  Strutt. 
Engravings  by  an  early  Dutch  Master. 

V.  Horas  B.  V.  M.  at  p.  731. 
Entomology,    v.  Curtis.    Appendix. 

„  V.  Godartius.   Appendix. 

Epitaphs. 

Le  Neve,  J.    Monum.  Anglicana.    1719. 
Le  Neve,  J.     Lives  of  Bishops.     1720. 
Monteith,  R.  Theater  of  Mortality.  1704. 
Erasmus,    v.  Knight. 
Erdeswicke,  S.     True  use  of  Armoric. 

V.  Wyrley. 
Escurial.     v.  Santos. 
Essex. 

F.,  H.     Trials  of  Witches.     1645. 
Morant,  P.     History  of  Essex.     1768. 
Essex,  Rob.  Devereux,  Earl  of.     v.  Cod- 

rington.     Appendix. 
Ethiopia.  Historia.  v.Tellcz.  /ippendix. 
F 


1766 


INDEX. 


Evelyn,    John,    his    copy    of    Cotton's 
Angler,    v.  Cotton. 

Fables. 
jEsop,  various  editions  in  different  lan- 
guages. 
Bidpai.     Fabuls.     [1480.] 

„  „  In  German.  1501. 

„  „  .,         '539- 

Brandt,  S.     Fabute.     v.  .^sop.     1501. 
Faemus,  G.    Fabute  centum.     1564. 
Gay,  J.     Fables.     1729. 

1793- 

Kidgell,  J.     Original  Fables.     1763. 
Fairfax,  Ferd.,  Lord.     Eulogie  on.     v. 

Walker. 
Falconry.    See  also  Chase. 

Bemers,  J.     Book  of  Hawking. 

Hawking.  BiecheleinvonBaissen.  1497. 

Latham,  S.     Falconry.     1658. 
1662. 
Family  History. 

Anderson.     House  of  Yvery.     1742. 

Collins.     Historical  Collections.     1752. 

Wiffen.    House  of  Russell.     1S33. 
Fencing. 

Agrippa,  C.     Trattato  d'Arme.     1553. 

Capo  Ferro.     Gran  Simulacro.     1610. 

Pacheco  de  Narvaez.     Grandezas  de  la 
Espada.     1600. 

Paurnfeyndt.  KunstderFechterey.  15 16. 

Saviolo,  his  practice.    1595. 

Silver,  G.    Parado.xes  of  Defence.  1599. 
Ferrar,  N.    Life.     v.  Peckard. 
Field  Sports,    v.  Chase. 
Fisher,  Bp.  of  Rochester,    v.  Lewis. 
Florisel  de  Niquea.  v.  Amadis  of  Gaul. 
FoRDUN,J.de.  Scotichronicon.  v.  Hearne. 
Former  Ages  never  heard  of,  &c.    v. 

Jenner. 
French  Books. 

Abrdgd  de  I'Histoire  Frangaise.    1585. 

.(Eneas  Sylvius.  Remide  d'Amour.  \s.  </.] 

jEsop.     Fables.    1540. 

Alciat,  A.    Emblemes.     1536. 

Alexandre  le  Grand.    Histoire.   \s.  dl\ 

Amirault.  Vie  de  F.  de  la  Nouc.    1661. 

Appier,  J.    Machines  Militaires.    1620. 

Assault  de  Paradis.     \s.  d^ 

Art  debien  vivre.     [1535.] 

Aubert,  E.  Marguerites  Podtiques.  1613. 

Bayard,  Histoire  du  Chevalier.    1619. 


French  V>oovjSi— continued. 
Bellay,  J.  du.     QLuvres.    1584. 
Belleforest,  F.  de.     L'Histoire  univer- 

selle.     1570.    \.  Appendix. 
Bellieuvre,  P.  de.     Harangue.     1588. 
Bible.    Ancien  Test,  historic.    \s.  d.] 

„  „        et  Nouv.    „      [s.  d.] 

„  „  „     Anvers.         1530. 

„  „  „    Lyons.  1531. 

„  „  „    Anvers.         1534. 

„  „  „     A'eu/cliastel.i'iiS- 

Billon,F.  de.  Fortdusexefeminin.  1555. 
Binet,  E.  Vies  des  Fondateurs.  1634. 
Boccace.  Des  nobles  malheureux.  \_s.  d.~\ 
Bonnor,  H.  de.  Arbre  de  Batailles.  [s.d.] 
Bouchard,  H.  Croniques  Annalles.  1536. 
Bouchet,  G.  Les  Serees.  16 14. 
Bouchet,  J.    L'araoureux  transy.    [s.  d.'] 

„  Regnars  traversant.    1530. 

„  Temple  de  bonne  renom- 

mde.    [s.  d.] 
Bouchet,  J.  Labirynth  de  fortune.  [1522.] 

„  Pandgyric  du  Chevalier.  1527. 

„  Epistres  morales.    1545- 

Bourdigne,  J.  de.   Hist.  d'Anjou.    1529. 

V.  Appendix. 
Bouton,  J.     Isle  de  Martinique.    1640. 
Castalion,  S.  Conseil  ^  la  France.  1 562. 
Cato.    Le  grant  chaton.    [s.  </.] 
Cent  Nouvelles.    \s.  </.] 
„  „  1696. 

Chambre,  D.  Singularitez  d'Ecosse.  1579. 
Champlain,  S.  de.  La  Nouvelle  France. 

1620. 
Charron  de  la  Sagesse.    1601. 
Chartier,  A.  (Euvres.  P.  le  Caron.  \s.  di\ 

„  „         Treppercl.   \s.  d.] 

„  OLuvres.     1529. 

Chastellain,  G.  Hist,  de  Lalain.  1634. 
Chronicles.  Lacroniquedegennes.  1508. 
Glamorgan,  J.  de.  Chassedu  Loup.  1598. 
Coligny,  La  vie  de.  1643. 
Columna,  F.  Hypnerotomachie.  1561. 
Commincs,  P.    Cronique.    1525. 

„  »  '539- 

1648. 
Conrad,  O.  Mirouerdespdcheurs.  [1530.] 
Consolation  Chrdtienne.    [1534.] 
Coppier,G.  Voyagedeslndes  Occ.  1645. 
Corneille,  P.    CEuvres.    1764. 
„  Horace.     1647. 

„  Mort  de  Pompde.   1648. 


INDEX. 


1767 


French  V>ooYi's— continued. 
Corneillc,  P.    Polyeucte.    J648. 
„  NiconiLcle.    1652. 

„  Androm^de.    1655. 

„  Pertharite.    1656. 

„  L'Amourala  Mode.  1656. 

„  Astrologue.    1656. 

Crainte  du  grant  Jugement.     \s.  a.] 
Crespin,  J.     Recueil.    1556. 

„  Actes  des  Martyres.   1564. 

Damerval,  E.  Livrede  Diabltrie.   1508. 
Danse  Macabre.     1491. 

..       ..    1492- 

»  ,.    1499- 

,.       „    1501- 

.,  „  1528. 

Ddbat  du  corps  et  de  I'ame.    [n.  i/.] 
De   Laind,   P.      Princely   way    to   the 

French  tongue.     1677. 
Delamotte,G.  The  French  Alphab.  1633. 
Depart  d'Amours.    \s.  d.l 
DesainHens,  C.    The  French  Schoole- 

master.     [1575.] 
Desainliens,  C.  Treasury  of  the  French 

tongue.     1580. 
Des  Periers.   Nouv.  Rdcrdations.    1561. 
Discours  des  troubles  en  Angleterre.  1 570. 
Discours  Politique.     1588. 
Doctrinal  des  filles  k  marier.     [Reimp.l 
Domenichi,  L.    Facdcies,  &c.     1559. 
Doolin  de  Mayence.     [s.  d.'\ 
Drouin,  D.  Le  Miroir  des  Rebelles.  1592. 
Dupont,  G.     Controverses  des   Sexes. 

1541. 
Dupuys,  R.     Entrde  de  Charles,  Prince 

d'Espaigne.     151 5. 
Epitomes  des  Roys  de  France.    1546. 
Estienne,  H.    Conformity  du  Language 

Francois.     [1565.] 
Exposition  sur  le  Magnificat.     \s.  </.] 
Facdcieux  Reveille  Matin.    1654. 
Faye,  J.    Recueil  des  Remonstr.    1592. 
Fierabras.     [s.  «.] 
Fillastre,  G.    Le  Toison  d'Or.     15 17. 

..  ;)  »         1530- 

Fine,  O.    La  Thdorique  des  cielz.  1508. 
Franc,     Martin.      Le    Champion    des 

Dames,     [s.  </.] 
France.     Collection  of  tracts. 
French  Tongue,  Pathway  to.    1575. 
Froissart,  J.   Chroniques.  Pan's.    [s.di\ 
Gilles,  N.    Annales  des  Gaules.     1538. 


French  V,ooviS—con/imicd. 
Goulard,  S.  Histoircs  Admirables.  "1610. 
Grands  Jours   du   Parlemcnt  de  Dieu. 

1615. 
Graphcus,  C.    Le  Triomphe  d'Anvcrs. 

1550. 
Gucrin  de  Montglave.    [.r.  </.] 
Guileville,  G.  de.  Roman  des  trois  pdle- 

rinages.    MS. 
Guileville,  G.  de.  Roman  des  trois  pdle- 

rinages.     [1500.] 
Guileville,  G.  de.  Pdlerinage  de  I'hommc. 

[s.  d.] 
Gyron  le  Courtoys.     [s.  d?\ 
Hervct  d'Orleans.    Epistre.     1562. 
Huon  de  Bordeaux,     [j.  d.\ 
1586. 
„  „  1606. 

Joinville,  J.  de.  Hist,  de  S.  Louis.  1761. 
Jouvencel,  Le  livre  du.     [s.  d.] 
La  Fontaine.    Giuvres.     18 14. 

„  Fables  Choisies.   1668. 

„  Contes  et  Nouv.    1685. 

Lancelot  du  Lac.     1573. 
L'Armessin.     Portraits    des    Roys    de 

France.     1679. 
Le  Fevre,  F.  Le  Secret  des  Juifs.   1 562. 
Le  Fevre,  R.  Histoires  Troiennes.  [.t.d.] 
Legend  des  Flamens.    1522. 
Le  Moyne,  P.    Couronnement  de  Fran- 
cois L     1505. 
Le  Roy,  L.     Des  differens  et  troubles. 

1562. 
Lery,  J.  de.    Voyage  en  Bresil.    1578. 
Le  Sage.    Gil  Bias.    1747. 
Lescarbot,  M.    La  Nouv.  France.   1609. 
Lestoile,  P.  de.     Journal  de  Henri  IIL 

et  Henri  IV.    1741-4- 
Longus.    Daphnis  et  Chloe.    17 18. 
Lords,  G.de.  Roman  de  la  Rose.  [1493.] 
„  „  ,.  »      1529- 

„  „  )i  J.      1538- 

„   En  prose.  1503. 
Lucidaire.      [s.  d.] 

Margaret  of  Navarre.  Marguerites.  1547. 
„  „     L'Heptameron.  1560. 

Marguerite,  Vie  de  Sainte.     [s.  d.] 
Marot,  C.    Oiuvres.    1539. 
Martini^re,  B.  de  la.     Voyage  des  pais 

Septentr.    1671. 
Martinus  Polonus.    Chronique  Martini- 
ane.     1 504. 


1768 


INDEX. 


French  V,ooks— continued. 

Mauroy,  N.    Hymnes.    Troycs.    1527. 
Meliadus,  Histoire  de.     1584. 
Meliadus  de  Leonnoys.     1528. 
•532. 
Menage,   G.      Diction.   Etymologique. 

1752. 
Merlin.     1498. 
Mervinia,  J.  de.    Discours  du  Martire, 

&c.    161 1. 
Meyssens,  J.  Effigies  des  Souv.  de  Bra- 
bant.   1663. 
Meschinot,  J.  Les  lunettes  des  Princes. 

1505. 
Mezeray,  E.  de.    Histoire  de  Marie  de 

Medicis.     1730. 
Modus,  Le  livre  du  Roy,  et  de  la  Royne 

Racio.    \s.  d.] 
Moli^re.    Oluvres.    1682.    8  vols. 
„  „         1765.    6  vols. 

„  „  1773.    6  vols. 

„         Le  Bourgeois  Gentilh.  1671. 
Molinet,  J.    Faictz  et  Dictz.    1537. 
Monstrelet,  E.  de.    Chroniques.    [s.  (/.] 

3  vols. 
Monstrelet,  E.  de.    Chroniques.    151S. 

3  vols. 
Montaigne,  1*1.  de.    Essais.     [1588.] 
»  )i  ,)        1595- 

»  ..  »        1659. 

Muse  Folastre.     1600. 
Mystt-re  de  la  Conception.   A.  Lotrian. 

in.  </.] 
Mysteredela  Conception.  J.  Trepperel. 

\n.  rf.] 
Mystere  de  la  Passion,     y.  Trepperel. 

{s.  </.] 
Mysteredela  Resurrection.  J.  Treppetel. 

\s.  ^.] 
Mystere.     Actes  des  Apotres.     1541. 
Nef  de  Santd.     \s.  rf.] 
Nesson,  P.    Vigilles  des  Mortz.     \s.  d.\ 
„  iv  Evangiles.      \s.  d?\ 

„  vii  Pseaumes  penitenciales. 

{s.  ./.] 
Neufpreux.     1507. 
Nostradamus,  J.  de.  Poctes  Provensaux. 

'575- 
Ogier  le  Danois.     \s.  di\ 

„  „  1 579- 

Ovide.    Mdtamorphoses.    1556. 

«  »  «767. 


French  Books — continued. 

Pagan,  F.  J.  B.    Relation  de  1' Amazon. 

1655. 
Pal  merin  d' Angleterre.     1553. 
Palsgrave,  J.     Lesclaircissement  de  la 

Langue  Francoyse.    1530. 
Paris  et  Vienne.    MS. 

„  „      \s.  d:\ 

Pascal,  B.    Lettres  Provinciales.    1657. 

1657. 

„  Pensdes.     1670. 

Pascal,  L.    Ddsabusement  des  Esprits. 

1626. 
Paternoster.    Brief  exposition.     \s.  </.] 
Pelletier.    La  Relig.  Cathol.    1610. 
Perceforest,  Histoire  de.     1528. 
Petite  Instruction.    1618. 
Pierre  di  Provence.     \s.  </.] 

„  ,.  1729- 

Platine,  B.    De  honnete  voluptd.    152S. 
Psalmes  de  David.    1539. 

„  »         1587- 

„  „  Sept  Psalmes  p(5ni- 

tenciaulx.     \s.  d.\ 
Pybrac.    Cent  quatrains.     1579. 
Quinze  efiusions  du  sang  de  N.  S.  \s.  ^.] 
Quinze  joyes  de  mariage.    1 596. 
Rabelais,  Qiuvres  de.    1553. 

»  „  1556. 

„  ..  1663. 

„  „  1741- 

Racine,  J.    CEuvres  de.     1768. 
Ramde,  P.  Advertissements,  &c.    1562. 
Rdcit  de  la  cruaute,  &c.     [1694.] 
Recueil  de  Farces.     1837. 
Recueil  de  div.  piibces.    1663. 
Recueil  de  la  diversity  des  habits.  1 562. 

,,  ,.  „        1567- 

Recueil  des  Poetes  Gascons.    1700. 
Recueil  des  Hystoires  Romaines.  15 12. 
Remonstrance  h  la  Reyne.    1561. 
Rochefoucauld.  Maximes.    1778. 
„  „  1822. 

„  Mdmoires.    1699. 

Rohan,  Due  de.    Mdmoires.    1646. 
RutebcEuf.    CEuvres.    1839. 
Schouten.    Journal.     1619. 
.Seul  mddiateur.     [1530.] 
Shepherd's  Calendar.     Le  grand  calen- 

drier.     1551. 
Silvestre,  J.  B.     Paldographie.     1841. 
Simeon,  G.     Observat.  antiques.    1558. 


INDEX. 


17G9 


French  Books— continued. 
Simonetta,  B.     Livre  des  persecutions. 

[..  d.-] 
Singulier  Antidot.     1561. 
Sismondi.  Hist,  des  IWp.  Ital.     1818. 

„  Hist,  des  Franqais.    1821-44. 

Songe  du  Vergier.     [1500.] 
Sully.     Mdmoires.     [s.  </.] 
1662. 

1767. 
Tableau  de  la  Croix.     1651. 
Tabouret,  E.     Les  Bigarrures.     1662. 
Terence.     Le  Grant  Therence.     1539. 
TertuUian.     Traitd  de  I'estat  honnete, 

&c.     1580. 
Testament,  Le  Nouveau.     [s.  d.^ 
,,  1539- 

»  ,,  1 541. 

»  »  1560. 

„  „  1664. 

„  „  1669. 

»  ,,  1673- 

„  „  1686. 

„  „  1 7 10. 

„  „  Ouatre 

Evangiles.     1524. 
Theramo,    J.    de.      Precis    de    Belial. 

1481. 
Theseus  de  Cologne.     1534. 
Thdvenet,    M.      Relations    de    divers 

Voyages.     1663-72. 
Thevet,  F.  A.     La  France  Antarctique. 

1557- 
Thevet,  F.  A.     La  France  Antarctique. 

1558. 
Thiers,  J.  B.    La  sauce  Robert.    [1676.] 
pt.  2.  [1678.] 
„  „       justifide.  1679. 

Tobit.     Histoire  de  Tobie.     [s.  a.] 
Torcy.    Mdmoires.     1756. 
Tory,  G.     Champfleury.     1529. 
Tournay,  La  DtSpucellage  de.     [s.  d.] 
Tristan,  Histoire  du  noble.     1586. 
Tuccaro,  A.     Trois  Dialogues.     1589. 
Turpin.     Cronique.     1527. 
Vergier  Cdleste.     [s.  </.] 
Vesputius.    Le  Nouveau  Monde,    [s.  d.] 
Ville  Hardouin,  G.     Histoire.    1601. 
Vincent   de    Beauvais.      Miroir    Hist. 

1531- 
Vinciolo,  F.  de.    Singuliers  et  Nouveaux 
portraits.     1 599. 


French  V,oov.?>— continued. 
Virgile.    Eneides.     1483. 

„         La  vie  de  Virgillc.     \s.  di\ 
„         Les  faictz  de  Vergille.     \s.  </.] 
Voltaire.     (Euvres.     1785-9. 
„  La  Henriade.     1767. 

„  La  Fiible  expliqude.     17S7. 

Voragine,  J.  de.  Ldgende  dordc.    1476. 
Voye  de  Paradis.     \s.  d.] 
Wallhausen,  J.  J.  de.  Art  de  Cheualrie. 
1616. 
French  History. 
Abrdgd  de  I'Histeire  Frangaise.     1585. 
Amirault.     Vie  de  F.  de  la  Nouc.   1661. 
Bouchard, A.  Croniques  Annalles.  1536. 
Commines,  P.  de.     Mdmoires.     1525. 

»  „  1539- 

„  „  1648. 

»  »  1723- 

D'Ancre,  Marquis,  Death  of.        1617. 
Hogenberg,  F.     Engravings. 
Joinville,    J.    de.     Hist,   de   S.    Louis. 

1761. 
Joly,  Guy.     Mdmoires,  1777.    2  vols. 
French  History,  Tracts  relating  to.    v. 

France. 
French  Protestants. 
Actes  de  la  dispute.     1566. 
Arnaud.      Histoire  de  la  glerieuse  ren- 

trde.     1 710. 
Barthol,  M.     Cantiques.     1596. 
Castalion,  S.  Conseil  h.  la  France.  1562. 
Claude,  J.      Plaintes    des   Protestants. 

1686. 
Consolation  Chrdtienne.     [1534.] 
Crespin,  J.     Recueil.     1556. 

„  Actes  des  Martyres.   1 564. 

Dowriche,  Anne.     The  French  Historic. 

1589. 
Epistre  Chrdtienne.     \s.  d.'\ 
Paternoster.     Brief  Exposition,     [s.  d.^ 
Rdmonstrance  fi  la  Reyne.     1561. 
Singulier  Antidot.     1561. 
Fryth's  Works,     v.  Tyndale. 

Generides,  Sir.  Fragment  of  the  Me- 
trical Romance  of.     v.  Fragments. 

Genesius  de  ritu  nuptiarum.  J.  Ca- 
luood.  1553.  Fragment  of.  v.  Frag- 
ments. 

Geneva,  v.  Fromment.  Actes  de  la  Citd 
de  Geneve.     1S54. 


I770 


INDEX. 


German  Books. 
Adelphus,  J.     Die  Turckisch  Chronica. 

1513- 
Adelphus,  J.     Barbarossa.     1520. 
Albert  of  Brandenburg.     1512. 
Amman,  J.   Ein  neuw  Thierbuch.  1569. 

)>  It  j»  j»  ^59-' 

„  Neuwe    Livische    Figuren. 

1573- 
Amman,  J.  Stand  &  Orden,  &c.    1 585. 
„  Kleidungen,  &c.     1586. 

„  Figuren    der     Evangelien. 

1587. 
Amman,  J.     Kunstbiichlin.     1599. 
Antithesis  Christi  &  Antichristi.    [c/] 


Auerswald,  F.  von.  Ringer  Kunst.  1539. 
Ayrer,  J.  Opus  Theatricum.  1610-18. 
Bambergische   Halsgerichts   Ordnung. 

1507. 
Bamberg,  Heylthumbs  zu.     1509. 
Beham,  H.  S.  Biichlein  der  Ross.   1528. 
Beroaldus,  P.     Beschreylich  Gedichte. 

1530- 
Biblia.     \o.  y.]     First  edition. 
„         ["■/]      Third  edition. 
J!         ["■  /•]     Fourth  edition. 
n        \p-J-\    Fifth  edition. 
„        '483- 

1529- 

>S3o. 

1534. 
„    Meyntz.     1534. 

1536. 
,,    1545- 

„         In  Low  German.    1494. 
1522. 

1533- 
Bidpai.  Weishait  der  alten  weisen.  1501. 

,.  ..  ..  >.        IS39- 

Bileams  Esel.     [1522.] 
Boccaccio,  J.     Decameron,     [c./] 

„  De Claris mulieribus.   MS. 

Bonaventura.      Legend    S.    Francisci. 

1512. 
Brandon.   Sant  Brandons  Leben.  15 10. 
Brandt,  B.     Volkummer  Begriff.    \o.  j'.] 
Brandt,   S.      Schip  van   Narragonien. 

1519. 
Breviarium  Deutsch.     1518. 
Bretschneider,A.  NewModelbuch.  1615. 


German  Books — continued. 

Breydenbach,  B.  de.  Itinerarium.  i486. 
Carolstadt.     Die  Messe  von  der  Hoch- 

zeit.    [1520] 
Charles   V.     Warhaftige    Bericht,  &c. 

[■525-] 
Chess.      Des   Spils   des   Schachzabels 

Bericht.     1536. 
Chronicle.     MS. 

„  Ein  tiJtsche  Cronica.  1473. 

Columbus.    Lesen  von  etlichen  Insslen. 

1497. 
Conciliumbuch.     1483. 
Confession  zu  Augspurg.     1531. 
Cranford,    J.     Yrelandtsche    Traenen. 

1642. 
David,  Botschafft  des  Konigs.     [c/] 
Dietenberger,  J.     Catechismus.     1545- 
Diet  of  Worms.     \p.j.\ 
Drake,  F.     Relation,     [o./] 
Ehingen,  G.  von.     Itinerarium.     1600. 
Eisenmenger,  J.  A.    Entdecktes  Juden- 

thum.     1700. 
Erhart   Tusch,    H.     [Die  burgundisch 

hystorie.]     1477. 
Erklarung  der  zwolff  artickel.     1485. 
Ernest,  D.  of  Brunswick.  Ausfahrt.  1 500. 
Eroberung  Rom.     1527. 
Eschenbach,  W.  von.     Partzifal.    1477. 
Tyturell.     1477. 
Etterlyn,  P.     Cronica.     1507. 
Eulenspiegel.     1532. 
Eyb,A.  ObeinWeibzunehmen.  [1472.] 

,.  »  ,,  ,,  '540. 

Fierabras.     1533. 
Fortunatus.     15 18. 
Frederick,  El.  Palatine.     Beschreibung 

der  Reiss,  &c.     161 3. 
Freydanck.     Proverbia.     \o.  /.] 
1508. 
Frobisher,  M.    Beschreibung  der  Schif- 

fart.     1580. 
Fuchs,  L.     New  Kreutterbuch.     1543. 
Gengenbach,  P.    Der  Nollhart.    \o.  j^ 

„  Novella.     \o.  /] 

Geschlechter  Buch.  1 580. 
Gesta  Romanorum.  1489. 
Geyler,  J.     Der  Passion,     [c. 7'.] 

„  Postill.     1522. 

Godfrey  of  Bouillon.     Hertzog  Gotfrid. 

1502. 
Got  zu  lob,  &c.     i5ro. 


INDEX. 


1771 


German  Books — continued. 

Gottfried,  J.  L.    Hist.  Antipodum.   1631. 

)j  ))  J)  >j  '^55* 

„  „     Neuwe  Cosmica.    1638. 

Guldin  Spil.     1472. 

Hawking.   Biechlcin  von  baissen.   1497. 
Hoffleben  dessen  Schlag  und  Handel. 

1617. 
Holzwart  von  Harburg,  M.     Lustgart, 

newer  deutscher  Poeteri.     1568. 
Homer.    Odyssea.     1538. 
Hug  Schapler.     1 500. 
Huss,  J.     Hystory,  &c.     1529. 
Hutten,  U.     Beklakunge,  &c.     [fl./] 
Isenberg,  W.  Die  mechtige  Erbkunigr., 

&c.     1520. 
John  Fred.,  D.  of  Saxony.     1541. 
„  „         Leben.     [«.  d.\ 

Kirchen  Ordnung.     1533. 
Klagred  eins  jungen  Munchs.     \p.ji\ 
Koch  &  Keller  meisterey.     1566. 
Lalebuch.     1 597. 
Latour  Landry.    Der  Ritter  vom  Turn. 

1 5 19. 
Layen  Spiegel.     1 509. 
Lehenrecht.     1530. 
Leyen  Regel  und  Pratic.     [c/.] 
Lichtenberger,  J.     Pronosticatio.   [cy.] 
Lirer,  T.     Cronick.     i486. 

Litany  zu  Got.   \p.jl\ 

Loosbuch.     1 546. 

Lotarius,  Hystory  von.     1514. 

Lustiger  Spruch.     \p-j-\ 

Luther,  M.    Sermon.    15 18. 

„  Ain  anzaigung,  &c.     [c  7'.] 

„  AntwortauffHeinrichVIIL 

1522. 

Luther,  M.    Betbiichlin.    1521. 
„  Taiiffbiichlin.    [c.y.] 

„  Christlich  Lider.     1524. 

n  ))  1-i  15-4* 

„  Deudsch  Catechismus.  1 529. 

1529- 
„  Sieben  Buss  Psalmen.  1 5 1 8. 

„  Die  Bekentnus.     1530. 

„  Ratschlag.    1538. 

„  Symbolum  XIL  Apostcln. 

\o.j.\ 
Luther,  M.    Gross  Catechismus.    1655. 

„  Kurz  gedicht.    [(?./.] 

Mandevilla,  J.  von.     1483. 


German  V>OQ)y^?^— continued. 

Ma.ximilian.     Der  kiiniglichen  vertrag. 

[I505-J 
Meyer,  C.    Spiegel  der  Christen.    1652. 
Morssheim,  J.  von.     Spiegel  des  Regi- 
ments, &c.     15 1 5. 
Murner,  T.     Von  dem  Grossen  Luthe- 

rischen  Narren.     1522. 
Neumayr,  J.  W.     Raise  des  Hertzog  zu 

Sachsen.    1522. 
Nider,  J.    Gulden  Harpffen.     1472. 
Niger,  P.     Stella  Meschiah.     1477. 
Novella,     {o.j.l 
Oliveros  de  Castilla.     1521. 
Ovid.     Metamorphosis.     1545. 

„        Das  Buch  der  liebe.     1484. 
Pasquillus.     Ein  Gesprech,  &c.    ["./] 
Pastor,   F.  D.      Beschreibung  der  Pr. 

Pensylvanie.     1700. 
Paurnfeyndt,  A.    Kunst  der  Fechterey. 

15.6. 
Pfintzing,  M.     Tewrdannckh.     15 17. 
Ponthus,  Histori  von.     1548. 
Practica  der  PfatTen.     [c. /] 
Proetorio,  J.     Spiel-karte.     1592. 
Radtschlag des  Bapst  Paul  III.     1545. 
Rampiijollis,  A.     Guldin  Bibel.     \o.j.\ 
Reuchlin,].   Gegen  Pfefferkorn.  [1511.] 
Reusner,  C.     Contrafacturbuch.    1587. 
Reynard  the  Fox.     Rostock.     1 549. 
Rhetoric  &  Formular.     1530. 
Ritterliche  Reutter  Kunst.     1584. 
Rodericus  Zamorensis.    Spiegel.    \o.jl\ 
Ruff,  J.     Ein  niiw  lustig  Spyl.     1550. 
Rumpolt,  M.  Einnew  Kochbuch.   1587. 
Riixner,  G.  Anfang  des  Thurners.  1530. 
Rychsner,  E.    Gesprech  Biechlin.  1524. 
Sachs,  H.,  Collection  of  pieces  by. 
Sachsenheym,    H.    von.      Die   Morin. 

1538. 
Sacrobosco.    Sphera  materialis.     15 19. 
Sadeler,  AL.    Theatrum  Morum.    1608. 
Schatzbehalter.     1491. 
Schildtberger.      [<?.  7'.] 
Schimpff  &  Ernst.     1535. 
Selen  Trost.     1483. 
Seven  Wise  Masters.     Schone  Cronick. 

1480. 
Siben  Kurss.     1492. 
Siben  Laden.     1491. 
Siben  Todsunden.     1474. 
Smalcald.     1534. 


1772 


INDEX. 


German  'S.OQVJi— continued. 
Smalcald.     1537. 
Solis,   V.     New  Kunstlichs    Betbiichl. 

IS68. 
Solis,  V.     Biblische  Figuren.     1560. 
Speculum.  Spiegel  Menschlicherbchalt- 

nus.   \o.  y.] 
Stimmer,  T.    Biblische  Figuren.    1576. 
Stumpff,J.  Heinrich  IV.  Historia.  1556. 
Testament,  Das  Neue.    [1522.J 
«  »  1523- 

»  »  1527- 

„  „  1528. 

„  ,,  1573- 

„  „  1629. 

„  Vier  Evangelisten.     1527. 

Theramo,  J.  de.   Das  Buch  Belial.  1473. 
Treves.     Hailthumb  zu  Trier.     [1512.] 
Troy.     Ein  hiibsche  histori.     1510. 
Tucher,  H.     Wallfahrt.     1482. 
Tunis.    Warhafftige  contrafactur.   1573. 
Uchteritz,  H.    v.  Kurze  Reise.     1705. 
Varthema,  L.     Ritterlich  Raysz.    1515. 
Vater  Unser. 
Vesputius.     Von  der  new  gefundenen 

region,     [cy.] 
Vesputius.    Dis  buchlinsaget,  &c.  1509. 
„  Welt  Kugel.     1509. 

„  Newe  unbekandthe  Lande. 

150S. 
Weckerlin,  G.  R.   Triumf  der  Kindtauf. 

1616. 
Weida,  M.  de.  Rosenkranz  Marie.  151 5. 
Winkelmann,   H.   J.      Americanischen 

Welt.     1664. 
Wirings  Stam  &  Wapenbiichlin.    \p.  j?^ 
Wirre,  H.  Ordenlich  Beschreibung,  &c. 

1569. 
Wittenberg.     Dye  zaigung  des  Hailig- 

thumbs.     1 509. 
Wolffen,  C.     Kalendar.     [1567.] 
Wurtemburg,  Duke  of.    Beschreibung 

der  Badenfahrt,  &c.     1602. 
Wyle,  N.  von.  Translationen.  \o.  o.  u.j^ 
Zehn  Gebotten.     1483. 
Zeiller,  M.  Historia  Epistolarum.  1663. 
Zeitglocklein.     1492. 
1493- 
»  '495- 

.,  \o-  >•] 

Gesta  Romanorum,  in  English,  fragment 
of.     V.  Fragments. 


Glastonbury  Abbey,    v.  Heame. 

Glasgow,  Earthquake  at.     v.  Strange. 

Gloucestershire. 
Atkyns,  R.     Hist,  of  Gloucester.    17 12. 

Gospels,   The  fower.     1571.    v.  Testa- 
ment. 

GOWRV  Conspiracy,     v.  Hart,  Sir  W. 

Grammatica  Figurata.     v.  Philesius. 

Greenland,     v.  Mooy,  M.  Reize  naar 
Greenland.     1787. 

Grey,  Lady  Jane.     v.  Florio. 

Grocers'  Company,  Hist.  of.    v.  Heath. 

Guernsey,  History  of.    v.  Dicey. 

Guiana. 
De    Myst,    G.      Verloren   Arbeyt,  &c. 

[1680.] 
Raleigh,  W.    Discov.  of  Guiana.    1596. 
„  Descriptio  Regni  Guiana:. 

1599. 
Raleigh,W.  Beschryvinghe  van  Guiana. 
1598. 

GuiLiELMUS  Neubrigensis,  Historia   re- 
rum  Anglicarum.     v.  Heame. 

GULDIN  Bibel.     v.  RampigoUis. 

Gunpowder  Plot. 
Vicars,  J.     Mischiefs  Mysterie. 
Ward,  J.     Deotrin-uni,  &c.     1605. 

GWEDIR  Family,     v.  Wynne. 

Gymnastics,    v.  Tuccaro. 

Halliwell.    v.  Phillipps. 
Hampshire,    v.  Warner. 
Hawking,     v.  Falconry  and  Chase. 
HeminGFORD,  W.     Historia  Edw.  I.     v. 

Heame. 
Henry  VIII. 
Caietanus,  T.  de.     De  conjugio  Regis 

Angl.     \s.  a.] 
Fisher,  J.    De  causa  matrimonii.    1530. 
V.  Appendix. 
Henry,    Prince,    Son  of   J^mes   I.     v. 

Cornwallis. 
Henry  II.  of  France.   Specimen  from  his 

librarj'.     v.  Albert. 
Heraldry. 
Ashmole.    Order  of  the  Garter.     1672. 
Berners,  Jul.   Book  of  St.  Albans.   1496. 
..  ,,  ..  1503- 

1595- 
Bolton,  E.  Elements  of  Amiories.  1610. 
Bossewell,  J.  Workesof  Armorie.  1597. 
v.  Appcndi.x: 


INDEX. 


1773 


H  F.RAI  DRY — coniir.ued. 
Urooke,  R.    Catalof^nie  of  Kings.    1619. 
Carter,  M.    Honor  rcdivivus.    1655.    v. 

Appendix: 
Feme,  J.     Blazon  of  Gentrie.     15S6. 
Holme,  R.   The  Acad,  of  Armory.    16S8. 
Legh,  G.     Accedens  of  Armory.     1568. 
Milles,  Thos.     Nobilitas.     1608. 

,,  Catal.  of  Honour.   1610. 

Morgan,  S.  The  Sphere  of  Gentry.  1661. 
Vincent,  A.  Discoverie  of  Errors.   1622. 
Watcrhous,E.  Arms  and  Armory.  1660. 
Wyrley,  W.    The  True  use  of  Armorie. 
1592. 
Herbert,  Geo.    v.  Walton. 
Herefordshire,    v.  Meg. 
Herring-Fishery,    v.  S.,  E.     Britain's 

Busse. 
Hertfordshire. 

Chauncy,  H.     History.     1700. 
Clutterbuck,  R.     History.     181 5. 
HoLliEiN,  Hans.    Woodcuts  designed  by. 
Bible  in  German.     1536. 
Cranmer's  Catechism.     1548. 
Holy  Land. 

Breydenbach.  Itinerarium.  14S6. 

„  „       In  Germ.   i486. 

Brocardus.    Descriptio  Terra:  Sanctaj. 

1536. 
Castillo,  A.  de.     El  devoto  peregrino. 

1654. 
Chambers,  R.     Palestina.     1600. 
Fuller,  T.     Pisgah   Sight  of  Palestine. 

1650. 
Haython.    Liber  Histor.  Orientis.  1529. 
Hese,  J.  de.     Itinerarius.     \s.  a.] 
Ludolphus  de  Suchen.     MS. 
.)  II  .1  \s.a:\ 

..  »  11  \_s.a:\ 

Meggen,  Jod.  a.  Peregrinatio  Hierosoly- 

mitana.     15S0. 
Tucher,  H.     Wallfahrt.     1482. 
Ziegler,  J.     Terra  Sancta.    1536. 
Hooker,  R.    v.  Walton. 
Hop  Garden,     v.  Scot. 
Horsemanship  and  Horses. 
Astley,  J.     Art  of  Riding.     1584. 
Blundeville,  T.  On  Horsemanship.  1597. 
Libro  de  la  Monteria.     1582. 
Malbie,  N.  Remedies  for  Horses.   1594. 
Markham,  G.    Discourse  of  Horseman- 
ship.    1593. 


Horsemanship — continued. 

Markham,  G.     Cavalrice.     16 17. 

Martinez  de  Espinar.     Arte  de  Ballis- 
teria.     1644. 

Ritterliche  Reutter  Kunst.     1584. 
HouiiKAKEN's  Heads,    v.  Birch. 
Howell's  New  Sonnets,  fragment  of.    v. 

Fragments. 
Hungary. 

Thwrocz,  J.  de.     Chronicon  Hungaro- 
rum.     1488. 
Hunting,    v.  Chase. 
Husbandry. 

Fitzherbert.  Boke  of  Husbandry.  1548. 

Markham,  G.  Eng.  Husbandman.  1613. 
„  Cheap   and    good    Hus- 

bandry.    1 63 1. 
HvLACOMVLUS,  M.     V.  Cosmographia. 
Hypnerotomachia  Poliphili.    v.  Co- 

lunina. 

Ichthyology,    v.  Bloch.    Appendix. 
Incunabula.   Books  printed  before  1 500. 
.i^neas    Sylvius.     Bulla    retractionum. 

\S.  rt.] 

v4isopus.     Fabute.     \s.  a.] 

i-f-  «•] 
[j.  «.] 
Albertus,  L.  B.  Dere  Eedificatoria.  1485. 
Albertus  Magnus.     De  laud.   B.  V.  M. 

\_s.a:\ 
Albertus     Magnus.     De    adhcr.    Deo. 

{s.  a:\ 

Altercatio  rusticorum,  &c.     \s.  ai\ 

Apocalypsis.     Block  Book. 

Apollonius    Rhodius.       Argonauticon. 
1496. 

Appianus.     Historia  Romana.     1477. 

Aristophanes.     ComcdiE.     1498. 

Aristoteles.     Opera.     1495-8. 

Ars  Memorandi.     Block  Book. 

Ars  Moriendi.     Block  Book. 

Augustinus.  De  Civ.  Dei.    1468. 

„  De  Arte  Predicandi.  \s.  a?[ 

„  De  Vita  Christiana.    \s.  a.\ 

„  De  Sing.  Clericorum.  1467. 

„  De  mirab.  S.  Scr.     \s.  «.] 

„  Meditationes.     1483. 

„  De  fuga  mulierum.     \s.  3.] 

Bartolomeo  dali  Sonetti.  Isolario.  \s.ai\ 

Benivieni,    D.      Defensionc    di    Frate 
Hicronynio.     1496. 
10  C. 


1774 


INDEX. 


Incunabula.    Books  before  \yx>—cont. 
BergomensiSjJ.  P.  Declaris  mulieribus. 

1497. 
Berlinghieri  Geographia.     \s.  «.] 
Bernard,  St.     Meditations.     1496. 

„  Golden  Pystlc.     \s.  a7[ 

Bemers,  J.     Book  of  Hawking.     1496. 
Bessario  adv.  Calumniat.  Platonis.  1469. 
Bible.     French.     Ancien  Test.     [«.  d^ 
Bibles.    In  German. 
„        In  Latin. 
,    Boccaccio.  Decameron.  In  Germ.  [«.</.] 
„  De  Claris  mulieribus.     1473. 

Bonaventura.     Regimen     Conscicntia;. 

is.  «.] 
Bonaventura.  Devote  Meditatione.  1487. 

11  )i  «  »         1489- 

„  Life    of   Christ.     Caxton. 

Bonaventura.  Tracts  in  Dutch.  [149S.] 
Bonnor,  H.  de.  Arbre  de  Batailles.  [.f.^/.] 
Bracellus,  J.  de.  Bello  hispano.  [j.  a.] 
Brandt,  S.  Stultifera  Navis.  Basil.  1497. 
„  „  „    Argent.  1497. 

,,  »     1498- 

Breydcnbach.     Itinerarium.     i486. 

„  „       In  Germ.  14S6. 

Brugman,  J.     Vita  Lijduine.     149S. 

Burlasus,  G.     De  vita  philosoph.  \s.  «.] 

Cffisarius  Heysterbachii.     \s.  «.] 

Caoursin,  G.     Obsidio  Rhodie.     1496. 

„  Stabilimenta.     1496. 

Cato.     Latyne  unde  duytsche.     \s.  «.] 

Catullus,  TibuUus  et  Propertius.    1481. 

Caza,  F.     Tractate  de  canto.     1492. 

Celsus  de  Medicina.     1478. 

Cessolis,  J.  de.     Scaecspel.     1479. 

„  Book  of  Chess.  Caxton. 

[1481.] 

Chalcondylas.     Erotemata.     [1493.] 

Chastising  of  God's  Children.     Caxton. 

[n.  d.] 

Chaucer,  G.  Canterbury  Tales.  Caxton. 

[1478.] 

Christine  de  Pisan.     Fayttes  of  Arms. 

Caxton.     [1489.] 

Chronicles.     Tiitsche  Cronica.     1473. 

Cicero.     DeOfficiis.     1470. 

»  .,  1476. 

„  „  [s.  a.] 

„        Epistote.     1469. 

»  )i  '471- 


Incunabula.    Books  before  i  500 — cont. 
Cicero.     Orationes.     1471. 
1472. 
„        Of  Old  age.     Caxton.    1481. 
Claudianus.     Opera.     1482. 
Columbus,  C.     Epistola.     \s.  a.] 

1493- 
Columna,  F.    Hypnerotomachia.    1499. 
CompositaVcrborum.  [s.a.l  v.  Appendix. 
Concilium  Buch.     1483. 
Cornazano,  A.     1472. 
Crastonus.     Lexicon.     \s.  a.~\ 
Curtius  Rufus,  Quintus.     1481. 
Cyrillus.     Speculum  Sapientise.     [s.  a.] 
„  „  „  In  Ger- 

man.    1490. 
Danse  Macabre.    1491. 
,,  „  1492- 

»  »  1499- 

Dante.     Foligno.     1472. 
„  Verona.     1472. 

1481. 
1487. 
„  Convivio.     1490. 

Defensorium  Virginitatis  Marias,    [s.  a.] 


Dialogus  de  sene  et  juvene.     Aniv. 

149!. 
Dialogus     Creaturarum      Moralizatus. 

Goudte.     1480. 
Dictes  and  Sayinges.     Caxton.     1477. 

v.  Appendix. 
Dympna,  S.     Legenda.  Atitv.     1496. 
Epistote  Grasca;.     Venet.     1499. 
Erhart   Tusch,   H.     Die    Burgundisch 

Historie.     1477. 
Erklerung  der  xii.  Artickel.     1485. 
Eschenbach,  W.  von.     Partzifah    1477. 
Tyturell.     1477- 
Euclidis  Opera.     1482. 
Eusebius.    Hist.  Eccles.     \s.  «.] 
Eutropius.     1 47 1. 
Eyb,    A.    von.      Ob    ein    eelich    weib 

zuncmen.     [c  7'.] 
Fichetus,  Cuil.     Rhetorica.     [1471-] 
Fierabras.     \s.  (f.] 
Fitzralph,  R.     Defensorium  Curatorum. 

\s.a:\ 
Flores  Musica;.     1488. 
Florus.     Historia  Romana.     \s.  «.] 
„  „  »  {s.a.\ 


INDEX. 


'775 


Incunabula.   Hooks  before  i  loo—cont. 
Franc,  M.  Le  Champion  des  Uanies.  [,f.a.] 
Fructus  Temporum.    [1483.] 
Gaza,  T.     Introd.  Gram.     1495. 
Gellius,  Aulus.     Noctes  Attica;.     1477. 
Gerson.    Donatus  Moralizatus  [&  other 

pieces].     \s.  a.'\ 
Gower,  J.     Confessio  Amantis.     14S3. 
Gregorius  Magnus.  Liber  Reg.  Pastoral. 

[x.,i.] 
Haedus,  P.  De  amoris  generibus.  1492. 
Hieronymus.     Expositio  in  Symbolum. 

1478. 
Higden,  R.     Polycronicon.     1495. 
Hilton,  VV.     Scala  perfectionis.     1494. 
History  of  the  Holy  Cross.     1483. 
Homerus.     Iliasand  Odyssea.     1488. 
Honorius  Augustod.  de  Imagine  Mundi. 

is.  ar.] 
Hora;  B.  V.  M.     1488. 
Horas  de  Nuestra  Sen.     [1495.] 
[Horaj  B.  V.  M.]     Duytsche  ghetyden. 

[I495-] 
[Horie  B.  V.  M.]    In  French.     1496. 

).  >i  »  J497- 

„  „  In  Latin.     1497. 

Hyginus.  Poeticon  Astronomicon.  1482. 

Isidore.  La  Cronica  di  S.  Isidero.  1480. 

Jacopone  da  Todi.    Laude.     1490. 

Janua,  J.  B.  de.    Catholicon.     1460. 
..  ,.  „  \s.l.eta.'\ 

Johan.  Damascenus,  Barlaam.  \s.  I.  et  a.'\ 

Johannes  Presbyter.    De  ritu  Indorum. 
[j.  /.  et  a.] 

Justinus.     1470. 
„  1476. 

Juvenalis.     \s.  a.] 

Kempis.     Imitatio  Christi.     14S8. 

Ketham,  Jo.  de.     Fasciculus  Medicina?. 
1500. 

Lascaris.  Comp.  octoorationis,&c.  14S0. 
»»  J,  „  „         14^8. 

Libellus  de  modo  confitendi.     14SS. 

Lichtenburger,  J.   Pronosticatio.    [o.j.] 

).  „  „         Latina.  [s.a.] 

Lirer,  T.     Chronicle,     [o.  J.] 

»  „  i486. 

Lorris,  G.  de.  Roman  de  la  Rose.  [1493.] 
Lucanus.     Pharsalia.     [s.  a.] 

„  „  [s.  a.] 

Lucianus.     1496. 
Lucretius,     i486. 


INCUNADUI.A.  Books  before  1500— cow/. 
Lyndewode,  W.  Constitutioncs.  1496. 
Macrobii  Opera.     1472. 

,,  ,,  1483- 

Mandev  la,  J.  de.     Itinerarius.     [s.a.] 

„  „  „    In  Italian.   1480. 

Manilius,  M.     Astronomicon.    [1472.] 
Marco  Polo.     1496. 
Martha  e  Magdalena.     1490. 
Martialis  Epigrammata.     [s.  a.] 
Massuccio.     Novelle.     1483. 
Meinradus.    Passio  S.  Meynradi.    1496. 
Mensa  Philosophica.     [s.  a.] 
Merlin.     1498. 

Methodius.     Revelationes.     149S. 
Mexia.     Nobiliario.     1492. 
Mirror  of  the  World.     Cax/on.     [1490.] 
Nider,  J.     Gulden  Harpffen.     1472. 
Niger,  P.  TractatuscontraJudiCos.  1475. 

„        Stella  Meschiah.     1477. 
Nitzschewitz,  H.     Psalterium  B.  V.  M. 

1492. 
Officiura  B.  V.  M.     1499. 
Orosius.     1471. 
Ovidius.     Opera,     i486. 

„         Das  Buch  der  Liebe.     1484. 
Parker,  H.     Dives  and  Pauper.     1493. 
Perottus,  N.     Cornucopia.     1499. 
Petrarca.    Opere.     Zarotti.     1473. 

„  „  Venetiis.     1473. 

„        De  Vita  solitaria.     \s.  a.] 

„       Secretum  F.  Petrarchi.    [s.  a.] 
Petrus  Blesensis.     [s.  a.} 
Phalaris.     1498. 
Philippus  de  Barberiis.     [s.  a.] 
Platina,    B.      De    Honesta    voluptate. 

14S0. 
Plautus.     Comcedice.     [s.  a.] 
Plinius.     Historia  Naturalis.     147°. 
Plutarchus.     Apophthegm.ita.     1 471. 
Pomponius  Mela.     149^. 
Portolano.     1490. 
Promptorius  Puerorum.     1499. 
Psalterium  Uavidis.     1481. 
>4S6. 
'496. 
Ptolomffius.     Cosaiographia.     1475. 
Robertus  Monachus.  Itineiarium  contra 

Tuicos.     [s.  a.] 
RodericusZamorensis.  Speculum.  1468. 

,,  ,.  »  [-f-  ^■] 

'428. 


1776 


INDEX. 


Incunabula.    Books  before  \^oo—coni. 
Rolewinck,  W.    Fasciculus  Temporum. 

1479- 
Sabellicus,  M.  A.     De  rebus  Venetiis. 

1487. 
Sabunda,  R.   Liber  creaturarum.  [«.  ^.] 
Sachsenspiegel.    \o.  /] 
Salemonis.     Glossa.     \s.  3.] 
Sallustius.     1470. 
„  1470. 

\S.  I.  d  <7.] 

1474- 

1478. 
Schedel,  H.    Chronicon  Nuremb.   1493. 
Schueren,  G.  de.    Vocabularium.    1477. 
Selen  Trost.     1483. 
Seneca.     Opera.     1474. 
„  Epistolas.     \s.  ai\ 

„  „  1475- 

Seven  Wise  Masters.     1480. 
Siben  Kurss.     1492. 
Siben  Laden.     1491. 
Sibcn  Todsunden.     1474. 
Sidonius  ApoUinaris  Epistote.     [1473.] 
Solinus,  C.  J.     Rerum  Memor.  collect. 

[s.a.] 
Speculum  Humans  salvationis.     [s.  «.] 
„  Spiegel  menschlicher  behalt- 

nusz.     Ip.j.] 
Suetonius.     Vita  xii.  Cresarum.     [s.  a.] 
Tacitus,  C.  C.     Historia.     [j'.  a.] 
Terentius.     Comcedias.     1496. 
Testament,  Le  Nouveau.    [s.  ti.] 
Theocritus.     1495. 
Theramo,  J.      Consolatio   peccatorum. 

1472. 
Theramo,  J.      Procts  de  Belial.     14S1. 
,,  Das  buch  Belial.     1473. 

Thesaurus  Cornucopiae.     1497. 
Thomas  de  Aquino.     De  viciis.     [s.  a.} 
Thwrocz,  J.  de.     Chronicon   Hungaro- 

runi.     1483. 
Tractado  de  la  vida.     1499. 
Tucher,  H.     Wallfahrt.     1482. 
Turrecrematae  Meditationcs.     149S. 
Valera,  D.     Cronica.     14S2. 
Valerius  Maximus.     147 1. 

»  ,,  1475- 

Valturius,  R.     De  re  militari.     1472. 
Varthema,  L.     Itinerarium.     [s.  a.J 
\'etcres  de  re  Militari.     14S7. 
Virgilius.     Opera.     1473. 


Incunabula.    Books  before  i^cxi—cont. 
Virgilius.     Opera.     1479. 
„  Eneides.     1483. 

„  Eneydos.     1490. 

Vitas  Patrum.     In  Dutch.     [«.  rf.] 

„  „  In  English.     1495. 

Vitruvius.     [i486.] 

Voragine,  J.  de.    Ldgende  dor(5e.    1476. 
„  „        Golden  Legend.  1493. 

Watton.J.  Speculum  Christiani.  [1480.] 
Zehn  Gebotten.     14S3. 
Zeitglocklein.     1492. 
1493- 
„  1495- 

io.j.] 
India. 

B.,W.    Last  East  Indian  Voyage.  1606. 
Balbi,  G.     Viaggio.    1590. 
Bruton,  W.    News  from  the  E.  I.  1638. 
De  Bry.  Peregrinationes  in  Indiam  Ori- 

entalem.     1 590,  &c. 
Forbes,  J.     Oriental  Memoirs.     1812. 
Gesta  proxime  per  Portugalenses. 
Godinho,  M.  Relacjao  do  novo  caminho. 

1665. 
Macer,  J.    L'Histoire  des  Indes.    1555. 
Marco  Polo. 
Monfart,  H.  de.      Survey  of  the  East 

Indies.     1615. 
Resendius,  A.  A.     Epitome,  &c.     1531. 
Saars,  J.   J.      Ost-Indianische   Kriegs 

dienst.     1662. 
Terry,  E.     Voyage  to  E.  India.     1655. 
Information.  .  .  against  the  oppressors 
of  the  poor  commons,  fragment  of.     v. 
Fragments. 
Inquisition. 
Auto  de  la  Fe.     1672. 
Eymericus,  N.     Directorium  Inquisito- 

rum.     1 503. 
Garcia,  P.     Orden  de  el  Santo  Oficio. 

1622. 
Masini,  E.     Sacro  Arsenale.     1625. 
Mongitore,  A.     Atto  di  fede.     1724. 
Montanus,  R.  G.    Sanctae  Inquisitionis 

Hisp.  Artes.     1567. 
Montanus,  R.  G.     Discovery  of  the  In- 
quisition.    1568. 
Montesinos,  F.   Auto  de  la  Fc  en  Lima. 

1639. 
Olmo,  J.  de.    Relacion  Historica.  16S0. 
Relatione dcUagiustitia  inSpagna.  1559. 


INDEX. 


^777 


Ireland. 
Beling,  R.     Vindic.  Cathol.     1650. 
Birchensha,  on  Defeat  of  Tyrone.  1602. 
Bogg-Witticisms.     [«.  d.\ 
Brandon.     Sant  Brandons  leben.  1510. 
Burgo,  T.  de.     Hibernia  Dominicana. 

1762. 
Caron,  R.    Remonstrantia  Hibernorum. 

1665. 
Carve,  T.     Itinerarium.     1639-41. 

„  Lyra  Hibernica.     [1651.] 

Clanricarde,  Marquis.    Memoirs.    1757. 
Colganus,  J.   Acta  Sanctorum.     1645. 
„  TriadisThaumaturgsacta. 

1647. 
Cooke,  J.     Monarchy,  &c.    Printed  at 

Waterford.     165 1. 
Cranford,  J.     Teares  of  Ireland.     1542. 
„  Yrelandtsche      Traenen. 

1642. 
Davies,  Sir  J.   Discovery  of  true  causes, 

&c.     1612. 
Egan,  A.      The   Franciscan    Convert. 

1673. 
Fitzsimon,  H.  Hiberniae  Vindiciae.  1621. 
French,  N.  The  Unkind  deserter  of  true 

men.     1674. 
G.,  R.     Letter  from  an  Officer  to  Crom- 
well.    1654. 
Harris,  P.    The  Exile  exiled.     1635. 
Keating,  J.  History  of  Ireland.     1738. 
Leslie,  C.     Answer  to  State  of  Ireland. 

1690. 
Lombardus,  P.     De  regno  Hibemiie. 

1632. 
Lynch,  J.     Cambrensis  Eversus.    1662. 
Mac  Caghwell,  H.     Apologia.     1623. 
Mahony,  C.     Disputatio.     1645. 
Meagher,  T.     Querimonias.     1620. 
Messingham,   T.     Florilegium   Insulx 

Sanctorum.     1624. 
News  from  Lough-Foyle.    1608. 

„     Later  news  from  Ireland.     1608. 
O'Conor,  C.  Rerum  Hibern.  Scriptores. 

1814-26. 
O'Daly,  D.  de  R.    De  Familia  Geraldi- 

norum.     1635. 
O'Flaherty,  R.     Ogygia.     1685. 
O'Molloy,  F.    Grammatica  Lat.  Hiber- 
nica.   1677. 
O'Sullivan,  P.     Hist.  Cath.  Hibernia;. 

1621. 


I  RF.I.ANn— i-(7«/'/««ifr/. 

Patrick,  St.    Opuscula.     1656. 
„  Life  of.     1625. 

„  Life  and  death.     1685. 

Pettie,  G.    Hibernia;  Delineatio.    16S3. 
Poncius,     J.      R.     Belling!     vindicias 

eversa;.     1653. 
Porter,  F.     Anna!.  Eccles.  Regni  Hib. 

1690. 
Prodinus,  A.  Descript.  Regni  Hiberniae. 

1721. 
Reily,  Hugh.  Ireland's  case  stated.  1695. 
RichjB.  Short  Survey  of  Ireland.   1609. 
„     „  Newdescriptionof  Ireland.1610. 
„     „  „  Defence  of. 

1613. 
Rich,  B.     Catholike  conference.     16 12. 
„     „      The  Irish  Hubbub.     1617. 
„     „  „  „  1618. 

Rooth,  D.     Analecta  Sacra.     1617-19. 
„  Hibernia  resurgens.     1621. 

Ryvius,  T.     Regim.  Angl.  in  Hibernia. 

1624. 
Spenser,  E.     State  of  Ireland.     1633. 

v.  Appendix. 
Stafford,  T.     Pacata  Hibernia.     1633. 
Stanihurst,  R.      De  rebus  Hibernicis. 

1584. 
Stanihurst,  R.     De  vita  Sancti  Patricii. 

1587. 
Story.  Impartial  Hist,  of  theWars.  1693. 
Talbot,  P.    The  Friar  disciplined.  1674. 
Ulster  Miscellany.     1753. 
Vallancey,  C.    Collectanea.     1786- 1807. 
Walsh,  P.     Hist,  of  the  Irish  Remon- 
strance.    1674. 
Walsh,  P.     Letter.     1674. 
Ware,  J.     Works.     1739-46. 
Irish  Language,     v.  Testament 
Iron  Smelting,    v.  Rovenson. 
Ironwork,    v.  Jousse  de  la  Flcche.    Art 

de  Serrurier.     1627. 
Isabella  of  Spain,  v.  Brunus,  L.  Cronica 

summaria.      [1506.] 
Italian  Books. 
yEsopo.    Fabule.     \s.  3.] 
„         Hystoriado.     1508. 
„         Vita.     1492. 
Agrippa,  C.  Trattato  di  scicntia  d'Arnie. 

1553- 
Aldus.     II  perfetto  gentilhuomo.    1584. 
Altieri.     Al  Re  Edoardo  VI.     1550. 


1778 


INDEX. 


Italian  'QooYJi—coniinucd. 
Andreino.     L'Adamo.     1613. 
Ariosto.     Orlando  Furioso.     1524. 
„  „  „  1540   and 

J543- 
Ars   Moriendi.     Arte  del  ben  morire. 

[x.  «.] 
Ars  Moriendi.   Judicio  de  Jesu  Christo. 

Is.  a^ 
Balbi,  G.     Viaggio.     1590. 
Ballarini,  F.     Catolici  nella  Valtellina. 

1623. 
Bandello.     Canti  XI.     1545. 
Bassani,  G.  B.     Resi  Armonici.     1691. 

V.  Appendix. 
BartolomeodaliSonetti.  Isolario.  [j.  <!.] 
Belli,  Gir.     Libro  de  Madrigali.     1586. 
Benivieni,  D.  Defensione  de  Fr.  Hiero- 

nymo.     1496. 
Benzoni,  Gir.      Mondo  Nuovo.     1565. 

»»  »  )>  j»  ^572. 

Berlinghieri,  F.     Geographia.     \s.  a.] 
Berni,  F.     Orlando  Innam.     1541.     v. 

Appendix. 
Bibles.     1 542-7. 

1562. 
Boccaccio.    Decameron.     1527. 

„  „  1665. 

Bonfadini.     La  Caccia.    1648. 
Bordone,  B.     I  sole  del  Mondo.     1528. 
Boschini,  M.     La  Carta  del  Navegar. 

1660. 
Buonavita,  A.     Madrigali.    1 587. 
Capo  Ferro.     Gran  simulacro.     16 10. 
Caravia,  A.     II  sogno.     1541. 

„  „  Naspo  Bizaro.  1565. 
Castiglione,  B.  Cortegiano.  1 533. 
Cavazzi,  A.    Descrizione  di  Congo,  &c. 

1687. 
Cecco  d'Ascoli.     Poesie.     15 16. 
Cento  Novelle  antike.     1525. 
»  '572. 

Colle,  J.  F.     Refugio  di  povero  gentil. 

1520. 
Cortes,  H.  La  preclara  narratione.  1524. 
Dante.     Div.  Com.     foligno.     1472. 

„  „  Verona.     1472. 

„  „  1481. 

„  „  1487. 

»  »  1502. 

,,  ,,  1 544- 

„         Convivio.     1490. 


Italian  Books — conlimied. 
Dati,  G.     S.  Joanni  Laterano.     \s.  c/.] 

„  Vita  dei  Pontefici.     \s.  </.] 

Dolce,  L.     Dialogo.     1562. 

„  Imprese  Nobili.     1578. 

Doni,  A.  F.     La  Zucca.     1551-2. 
Epistole  e  Evangelii.     15 12. 
Fabritii,  A.  C.  degli.    Volgari  Proverbii. 

1526. 
Fanti,  S.    Triompho  di  Fortuna.    1527. 
Federici,  C.  dei.    Viaggio   nell'    India. 

1587. 
Ferrara,  La  Guerra  di.     \s.  a.] 
Fior  di  Virtu.     1519. 
Fioretto  dei  Paladini.     \s.  (Z.] 
Folengo,  T.  Chaos  del  tri  per  uno.  1 546. 
Frezzi,  F.     II  Quatriregio.     1508. 
Frottola  di  un  Padre.     \s.  <z.] 
Grazzini,  A.  T.     La  Gigantea.     1566. 
Gualtieri,  G.     Ambasciatori  Giaponesi. 

1586. 
Historia  de  Papa  Alexandro.     \s.  a.] 
Isidore.  La  Cronicadi  S.  Isidero.  1480. 
Mandevilla,  J.  de.     Itinerario.     1480. 

1517. 
Manfredi,  J.     11  Perche.     1507. 
Manolesso,  E.  M.  Historia  Nova.  1572. 
Marco  Polo.     1496. 
1508. 
Martha  e  Magdalena.     1490. 
Massuccio.     Novelle.     1483. 
Medici,  L.  de'.     Poesie.     1554. 
Negri,  C.  Le  Gratie  d'Amore.     1602. 
Novelle  Tre.     \s.  a.] 
Opera  nova  Contemplativa.     \s.  a.] 
Ovalle,  A.  de.   Relatione  di  Cile.     1646. 
Ovidio.      Metamorphoseo.     1522. 

1559- 
„  Epistole.     1537. 

Palatino,  G.  B.    Libro  a  Scrivere.  1548. 
Palmerin  de  Oliva.     1534. 
Pascarola,  G.  T.     Madrigali.     1589. 
Petrarca,  F.     Opere.     1473. 

„  „         Venetiis.     1473. 

150'- 
1514- 
1549- 
Pezzi,  L.     La  vigna  del  Signore.     1 589. 
Piccolomini,  A.     Dialogo.     1540. 

„  Cento  Sonetti.     1548- 

Pigafetta,  F.  Relatione  di  Congo.   1591. 
Piramo  e  Tisbe.     \s.  «.] 


INDEX. 


'779 


Italian  "Qoom^?,— continued. 
Piramo  e  Tisbe.     1558. 
Porto,  A.     Giuochodei  Scacchi.     15 18. 
Pozzo,  V.     Madrigali.     1585. 
Portolano.     1490. 

Pulci,  A.     Figliuol  prodigo.     [1592.] 
Pulci,  L.     La  Giostra  di  L.  de  Medici. 

[1500.] 
Rappresentationi.  A  series  of  66  editions 

of  the  1 6th  century. 
Relatione  delta  giustitia  fatta  in  Spagna. 

1559- 
Ricchi,  A.     I  tre  Tiranni.     1533. 
Ringhieri,  I.     Cento  Giuochi.     1 557. 
Romeo  e  Giulia.     1558. 
Rosselh,  G.  de.     Epulario.     15 16. 
Rosso,  G.  R.     Historia,  &c.     1558. 

1560.     V. 

Appendix. 
Sacchetti,  C.  Comediadi  Giudith.  1575. 
Sanuto,  L.     Geographia.     1588. 
Savonarola,  H.  di.  23  various  works  of. 
Scaramella,  B.     Madrigali.     1591. 
Sonetti  e  Canzoni.     1527. 
Testamento  Nuovo.     1547. 
»  „  1551- 

1556. 
Thebaldeo.     Opere.     \s.  a.] 
Tirante  il  Bianco.     1538. 
Tolosani,  G.  M.  Istoria  di  S.  Antonino. 

1557- 
Uberti,  F.  A.     Libro  d'Abaco.     \s.  a.] 
Uberto  e  Philomena.    [s.  n.] 
Valentino  et  Orsone.     1558. 
Varthenia,  L.     Itinerario.     1518. 
Vecellio,  C.     Habiti  Antichi.     1590. 
Veer,  G.  de.     Tre  Navigation!.     1599. 
Verdizotti,  G.  M.     Favole.     1570. 
Viaggi  fatti  da  Venetia.     1543. 

1545- 
Viaggio  fatto  da  gli  Spagniuoli.     1536. 
Viaggio  da  Venetia.     1 5 1 8. 

»  >.  1538- 

Virgelli,  E.     Madrigali.     1 594. 
Visdomini,  F.  Riconciliatione  d'lnghil- 

terra.     1555. 
Zuccollo,  S.  La  pazza  del  Ballo.  1549. 

iTINERARIUiM        PORTUGALENSIUM.         V. 

Vesputius. 

Jacob  and  his  Sons,  fragment  of  an  early 
edition  of.     v.  Fragments. 


Jamaica,    v.  Hickeringill. 
James  L    v.  Rose. 
,,  V.  Weldon. 

jAPAhf. 

Antonio.     Cronicas.     1738. 

Buxeda    de    Lcyva.     Hist,   de   Japon. 
1591. 

GuaUieri,  G.  Ambasciatori  Giaponesi. 
1586. 

Pineyro,  L.     Relacion,  &c.     1617. 
Jest  Books. 

Democritus  Secundus.     1658. 

Dobson's  Drie  Bobbes.     1607. 

England's  Genius.     1734. 

Entertaining  Companion.     [1745.] 

F.  C.     The  merry  Medley.   [1745.] 

Garrick's  Complete  Jester.   [1775.] 

Gunston's  Jests.     1780. 

Hicks,  W.     Oxford  Jests.     [1740.] 

Jonson.     Ben  Jonson's  Jests.     1761. 

L.,  H.     Gratia:  Ludentes.     1628. 

Mottley,  J.    Joe  Miller's  Jests.     1739. 
„  „  „        2nded. 

1739- 
Mottley,  J.    Joe  Miller's  Jests.    1747. 
Nugje  Venales.     1689. 
Pasquil's  Jests.     [1635.] 
Peacham,  Polly.     Jests.     1728. 
Peel,  G.   Merrie  conceited  Jests.    1620. 

1627. 
Peters,  Hugh.     Tales  and  Jests.     1660. 
Scogin's  Jests.     [1690.] 
Tarlton's  Jests.     1638. 
Versatile  Ingenieuse.     1679. 
Wit  h.  la  mode.     1775. 
Witty  Apophthegms.     1658. 
Jesuits. 

Ignatius  Loyola. 

More,  H.  Hist.  Missionis  AngL  1650. 
Owen,  L.  Speculum  Jesuiticum.  1629. 
Tanner,  M.     Societas  Jesu.     1675. 

>.  ..       1694- 

Techo,  N.  de.  Hist.  Paraguariie.  1673. 
True  relation  of  Jesuits'  faction.     1641. 
Watson,  W.  Sparing  Discoverie  of  Eng- 
lish Jesuits.    1601. 
Jewell,  Jo.  Vita.  v.  Humphrey. y?//^«(j'/jr. 
Johannes  Glastoniensis.   Chronica,     v. 

Hearne. 
Johannes    de   Trokelowe.   Annales  Ed- 
ward i  IL     v.  Hearne. 
JOVIALL  Crew.     v.  S.,  S. 


i;8o 


INDEX. 


Judaism. 

Eisenmenger,  J.  A.     Entdecktes  Juden- 

thum.     1700. 
Eisenmenger,  J.  A.     Entdecktes  Juden- 
thum.    Translated  by  Stehelin.   1742. 
Niger,  P.     Contra  Judeos.     1475. 
Niger,  P.     Stella  Meschiah.     1477. 
Pfefferkorn,  J.     Speculum.     1570. 

„  De  Judaica  confessione. 

1503- 

Pfefterkorn,  J.  Explicatio  Paschae.  1509. 

„  Stunn  J.  Pfefferkorn.  1514. 

Wagenseil,  J.  C.Tela  Ignea  Satanae.  1 68 1 . 

Wotton,  W.     Traditions   of  the   Jews. 

1718. 

Kent. 

Hasted,  E.     History  of  Kent.    1778-99. 

Kilbume,  R.     Survey  of  Kent.     1659. 

Lambarde,  W.  Perambulation  of  Kent. 
i576,&c. 

Sandwich.     The  Devil  in  Kent.     1647. 

Williford,  Examination  of,  at  Feversham. 
1645. 
King,   Josiah.     Tryal  of  Christmas,   v. 

Christmas. 
King's  Evil.    v.  Tooker. 

Lace  and  Needlework  Designs. 
Bretschneider,A.  NewModelbuch.  1665. 
Fiirstin,  R.  H.  Neues  Modelbuch.  1676. 
Parasole,   E.      Specchio  delle   donne. 

1598. 
Parasole,  E.  Teatro  delle  donne.  1616. 
Vecellio,  C.   Corona  delle  donne.  1625. 
Vinciolo,    F.    de.     Singuliers  Sc  nouv. 
pourtraicts.     1 599. 
La  Chenay.    v.  Nef  de  Santd. 
Lamentationes  Obscurorum  virorum.  v. 

Gratius,  Ort. 
Lancashire. 
Baines,  E.     History,     v.  Appendix. 
Gregson,  M.     Portfolio  of  Fragments. 

1S24. 
Roby.  Traditions  of  Lancashire.  1829-31. 
Tim  Bobbin.  Lancashire  Dialect.   1770. 
Langtoft,  Peter.    Chronicle,  v.  Hearne. 
Lapland,    v.  Scheffer. 
Leicestershire. 
Burton,  W.     Description  of  Leicester- 
shire.    1622. 
Markfield,  Tempest  at.     1659. 


Leicestershire— fc«A«?,r^i/. 
Nichols,  J.  Hist,  of  Leicester.  1795-1815. 
Throsby,  J.     Views  in   Leicestershire. 
1791. 
Liber  Conformitatum.   v.  Pisis,  B.  de. 
Liber  Niger  Scaccarii.     v.  Hearne. 
Lichfield,  W.  Compleynt  betwene  God 
and  Man.    v.  Poetical  and  Prose  Mis- 
cellany. 
Lincolnshire. 
Grantham,  T.  The  prisoner  against  the 
prelate.     [1645.] 
Lisbon,  English  Nunnery  at.  v.  Robinson. 
Liturgical  Works. 
Antiphonarium.     MS. 
Antiphonarium  ad  usum  Sarisbur.  MS. 
Breviarium  Mozarabicum.     1502. 
„  Romanum.     MS. 

„  DeutschRomischBrev.  1518. 

„  Romanae  Curia:.     1537. 

„  Romanum.     1 546. 

„  Sarisburiensis.     1535. 

„  S.  Petri  Insulensis.     MS. 

Carolstadt.     Die  Messe  von  der  Hoch- 

zeit.     [1520.] 
Ceremonies  for  the  Healing.    1686. 
Enchiridion  Ecclesia;  Sarum.     1528. 
Ferrerius,Z.  Hymni  Ecclesiastic!.  1525. 
Festival,  The.     1508. 
Form   und   Gcstalt    der  kinder  Tauff. 

1526. 
Horre  B.  V.  M.     Various  editions. 
Hymnorum  Opusc.  ad  usum  Sarisbur. 

1541. 
Kirchen  Ordnungzu  Brandenburg.  1533. 
Lectionarius.     MS. 
Liturgia    Sacra    Eccl.     Peregrinorum. 

1554- 
Manual  of  Prayers.     1539. 
Manuale  Eccl.  Sarisburiensis.     1554. 
Missa  Latina.     1557. 
Missale  ad  usum  Sarum.     1508. 

>.  ,,  ,,        IS55- 

Missaleadusum  Ecclesije  Bangor.  MS. 
Office  de  la  Semaine  Sainte.     \s.  d^ 
Officium  B.  V.  M.     1499. 
Orarium.     1 560. 

Order  of  the  Communion.     154S. 
Ordo  distributionis  Sacramcnti.     1548. 
Order  of  Matrimony.     [«.  d.\ 
Prayer  Book.     1 549. 

„        „       Ordinatio  Ecclesia;.   1551. 


INDEX. 


1781 


Liturgical  Works — continued. 
Prayer  Book.  Whitchurch.  1552. 


» 

Kjrajion.      1 

Whitchtirct 

I.    1552.    4to. 

)» 

y 

1559- 

» 

» 

1574. 

« 

)> 

i6ig. 

J> 

» 

1632. 

» 

J 

Edinburgh. 

1637. 

>» 

) 

1637- 

» 

J 

1662. 

1» 

> 

1717. 

)> 

> 

1762. 

J)         J 

> 

Liber  Precum  Public.  1 574 

J) 

1 

In  Irish.     I 

608. 

»          » 

> 

New  York. 

.831. 

Prayers. 

An  Order  for  publike  prayers 

1586. 

Prayers. 

Pr 

Charles,  his 

Litany.    1648 

Lanthorne  and  Candlelight. 


Troia-Noua  Triumphans. 


„  .^thiopic  MS. 

Precationes  privatg  Rcgiae.     1 563. 
Preces  Privata;.     1564. 
Primer  in  English.     1538. 
Primer  of  Salisbury  use.     1554. 
Processionale  ad  usum  Sarum.     1 544. 
Ratio  et  Forma  orandi  Deuni.     1556. 
Sacra  Institutio  Baptizandi,  &c.     1604. 
LoMAZZO.     V.  Lomatius. 
London. 

Decker,  T.     The   Belman   of  London. 

1608. 
Decker,  T. 

1609. 
Decker,  T. 

1612. 

Directory  for  London.     1677. 
Ellis,  Sir  H.     Hist,  of  Shoreditch.  1798. 
Evelyn,  J.     Fumifugium. 
Fire  at  New  Prison,  Clerkenwell.  1678. 

„     in  Temple  Lane.     1679. 
Frost.     Cold  doings  in  London.    160S. 
Howell,  J.     Londinopolis.     1657, 
Pennant,  J.   Account  of  London.    1805. 
Stow,  J.     Survey  of  London.     1598. 

1754. 
Wilkinson,  R.  Londina  Illustrata.  1808. 
LORETO.     V.  Translatio  miraculosa. 

„  V.  Tursellinus. 

Luther,  Martin,  Bull  against,   v.  Leo  X. 

„  „         Life  of    v.  Hayne. 

Lydgate'S  Life  of  our  Lady,  fragment  of 
v.  Fragments. 

10 


Macaronic  Poetry. 
Capellus  (}.     Macharonea.     1526. 
Flora  cortum  versicale.     1627. 
Folengo,  T.  Opus  Mcrlini  Cocaii.   1521. 

..  V  „  1592- 

Orsini  de  Ponzana,  C.    Capriccia  Maca- 

ronica.     1636. 
Madagascar. 
Flacourt,  Histoire  de  M.     1656. 
Hamond,  W.  A.     Paradox.     1640. 
Madrigals,    v.  Music. 
Manu.scripts. 
Adamson,  J.     Commonplace  book.    v. 

Appendix. 
Adamus  Carthusiensis  Sermones.  v.  Ap- 
pendix. 
Alcock,  J.,  Bp.  of  Ely.  Abbey  of  the  Holy 

Ghost.     V.  Appendix. 
Antiphonarium  ad  usum  Sarisburiensis. 
Apocalypse. 
Augustinus. 
Bade  Roll. 
Bhagavad-Gftil. 
Bible  History. 
Biblia  Latina. 

„  V.  Appendix. 

Biblia  Pauperum. 
Biblicas  Icones. 
Boccaccio    de    claris    mulieribus.      In 

German. 
Boetius.     De  consolatione  philosophias. 
Bonaventure.     Life  of  Christ. 
Bouchet,  J.     Les  regnars  traversant. 
Breviarium  Romanum. 

„  Sancti  Petri  Insulensis. 

Carmarden,  R.   A  Caveat  for  the  Ouene. 

V.  Appendix. 
Catalan  Poetiy. 

Cessolis,  J.  de.     De  ludo  scachorum. 
Christliche    andechtige    Hertzseufftzer- 

lein. 
Chronicles.  Les  Chroniques  de  France. 
„  Chronicle  in  German,  14th 

century. 
Cicero.     Tusculanas  Questiones. 
Commandments,     v.  Appendix. 
Cornelius  Nepos. 
Dictys  Cretensis. 
Diogenes  Laertius. 
Du  Guesclin.     Roman  de  Bertrand  de 

Guesquin. 
Emblems. 
H 


1/82 


INDEX. 


MAnvsCRlPT5—co>!fi>tuei/. 
English,  Esther.   Le  Livre  d'Ecclesiaste. 

1601. 
Ferdinand  and  Isabella.     1476. 
Firdousi.     Shah  Nameh. 
Guilevile,  Guil.  de.     Trois  pelerinages. 
Hieronymus.     Flores  Sancti  Jeronimi. 
Hoefnagel,G.  Terra,Aier,  Ignis,  Aqua. 4v. 
Horce  Beatse  Mariae  Virginis. 
Horatius. 

Huggard,  M.    Mirrour  of  Miserie.  1558. 
Kellie,  R.  Borosco.  A  Tragedy.  [Aioui 

1630.] 
Lenton,  F.    Queen  Esther.     1637. 
Liber  Precum. 

London.     Statuta  Civitatis,  &c. 
Madrigals.     3  vols. 
Merlin. 

Miracles  of  the  Blessed  Virgin. 
Missale  ad  usum  Ecclesise  Bangor. 
Missale  Speciale. 
Monastic  manuscript. 
Narrative  of  the  Journey  of  an  Irish 

Gentleman. 
Nuremberg.     Patricii  Reip.  Nuremb. 
Officium  B.  V.  M. 
Painting.     Kurzer  Bericht,  &c. 
Paris  at  Vienne.     1553. 
Parker,  Abp.     Book  of  Prayers. 
Petrarca.     Opere  varie. 

„  Sonetti  e  Trionfi. 

„  Trionfi. 

Plautus.     Comcedia;. 
Poetical  and  Prose  Miscellany. 
Poetry,  Collection  of  fugitive. 

Portolano.     Several  MSS. 

Prayers.     /Ethiopia  MS. 

Prayers  in  German. 

Preces  Pi^e. 

Prefationes  Missse. 

Proverbs,  Spanish  and  English. 

Proverbs  from  the  Koran. 

Psaltcrium  Davidis.    MS.  13th  century. 

„  ,,  MS.  14th  century. 

J,  )i  MS.  14th  century. 

„  „  Transl.  by  Sir  P. 

Sidney. 
Rauch-Opffers  Christlicher  Seel.    1626. 
Recommendacioncs  Animarum. 
Sachsenspiegel. 
Salamanca  University. 


M  ANirscRlPT.s—  cotttinned. 
Sallustius. 

Scattergood,  H.     Commonplace  book. 
Segar,  F.     Album. 
Speculum  Humanae  Salvationis. 

„  „  Mirror 

of  Man's  Salvation. 
Statutes  of  Edward  I. 
Strada,  O.  de.     Simbola. 
Taylor,  J.     Fortune's  Wheel. 
Terentius.     Comoedise. 
Testament,  The  New.     Greek. 

„  „  Armenian. 

„  „  English. 

„  „  Latin. 

Trait(^  sur  la  Charitd. 
Ubaldini,  P.     Liber  Precum. 
Valtan,  P.  L.     In  Symbolum  Apost. 
Viage  desde  el  Callao. 
Vies  des  Philosophes. 
Virgilius.     Opera. 
Walton,  J.     Speculum  Christian!. 

"  )i  >» 

Maps.    v.  Santarem. 
Mar-Prelate  Controversy. 
Admonition  to  Parliament.     [1572.] 
Almond  for  a  Parrot.     [«.  </.] 
Brief  discovery  of  untruths.     [1590.] 
Nash,  T.  Countercuffe  to  Martin  Junior. 

1589. 
Nash,  T.     Returne  of  Pasquil.     1589. 
„  First  part  of  Pasquil's  Apo- 

logie.    1 590. 
Part  of  a  Register.     [«.  </.] 
Rythmes  against  M. Mar-prelate.  [1588.] 
Margaret,   Saint,   Metrical  life  of.    v. 

Fragments. 
Markham,  Jervis.    v.  Ariosto's  Satyres. 
Maroccus  Extaticus.     v.  Bankes. 
Marriage. 
Abus  du  Mariage.    1641. 
Herman  de  Wida.     Duty   of  Married 

folks.     [«.  d:\ 
Hilder,  T.    Conjugall  Counsel.    1653. 
Lawrence, W.  Marriagevindicated.  1680. 
Marriage  promoted.    1690. 
Marsh,  A.   The  ten  pleasures  of  mar- 
riage.   1682. 
Marsh,  A.    Confession  of  the  new  mar- 
ried couple.     1683. 
Milton,  J.    Doctrine  of  Divorce.     1645. 
„  Tctrachordon.     1645. 


INDEX. 


1783 


Marriage — cflntiiiucd. 

Sanchez  de  Matrimonia.    1607. 

Whately,  W.    A  Bride  Bush.     1623. 
Martine  Mar-Sixtus.     v.  W.,  R. 
Mary,  Q.  of  Scots. 

Barnestapohis,  O.  Maria  Stuarta.  1 588. 

Bellieuvrc,  P.  de.    Harangue.     1588. 

Blaclvwood,  A.    Martyre   de  la    Reine 
d'Ecosse.     1587. 

Blaclcwood,  A.     Martyre   de  la   Reine 
d'Ecosse.     158S. 

Buchanan,G.  De  Maria  Scot. rag.  \s.ai\ 
„  Ane  detection.    [«.  d.] 

Causino,  N.    Historia.    1645. 

Conasus,  G.  Vita  Marias  StuartJE.  1624. 

Crompton,  R.    End  of  traitors.     1587. 

Gatti,  Bassiano.    Maria  Reg.  di  Scotia. 

1633- 
Kempe,  W.    A  dutiful  invective.     1587. 
Lesteus,  J.    De  titulo,  &c.,  Maria;  Scot- 

orum  Regina.     1580. 
Mary,  Q.  of  Scots.  Copyofaletter.  [n.d.] 

„  „  Discourse  of  preten- 

ded match.     [«.  d.] 
Mary, O.of Scots.  L'Innocence,&c.  1572. 
Mary,  Q.  of  Scots.  Discoursdela  Mort, 

&c.    [s.d.] 
Mary,  Q.  of  Scots.  Supplicium  et  mors. 

1587. 
Udall,  W.    Hist,  of  Mary  Stuart.    1624. 

[1636.] 
Vega,  L.  de.    Corona  Tragica.    1627. 
May-Games,  v.  Hall,  T.  Funebria  Florje. 
Medwall's  Goodly  Interlude  of  Nature, 

fragment  of.   v.  Fragments. 
Merlin,  Life  of.    v.  Heywood,  T. 
Mexico,  Books  printed  in. 
Aleman,  M  .  Ortografia  Castellana.  1609. 
Baptista.   Advertencias.    1600. 
Bulla.    [1565.] 

Cabrera,  C.  de.  Armas  de  Mexico.  1746. 
Carochi,  W.    Lengua  Mexicana.    1759. 
Castillo,},  de  Porres.  Relacion,  &c.  1662. 
Cepeda,  F.  de.  Relacion  de  Mexico.  1 637. 
Cortes,  H.    Nueva-Espaiia.     1770. 
Molina,  A.  de.    Vocabulario  Mexicana. 

IS7I. 
Regla  Christiana  breve.    1547. 
Rincon,  A.  del.     Arte  Mexicana.    1595. 
Sahagum.   Noticias  Mexicanas.   [1730.] 
Vetancurt,  A.  de.     Arte  de  la  lengua 

Mex.    1673. 


Microscope,  v.  Hooke,  R.  Micrographia. 

MlDDLESE.K. 

Lysons,  J.    Environs  of  London. 

Norden,  J.    Speculum  lirittaniae.  1593. 
Military  Art. 

Bourne,  W.    Art  of  Shooting  in  great 
Ordnance.     1587. 

Digges,  T.  and    D.     Four   Paradoxes. 
1604. 

Gates,  G.    Defence  of  Militarie  profes 
sion.     1579. 

M.,  R.   The  best  Schoole  of  War.  1643 

Markham,  G.    Vox  Militis.     1625. 

Mendo5a,G.de.  Theorique  of  War.  1597, 

Military  Art.   A.  B.  C.  of  Arms.   1616. 

Military  Art  of  Trayning.     1622. 

Mosquera  de  Figueroa.    Compendio  di 
Disciplina  Militar.   1596. 

Salazar,  D.  de.   De  re  Militari.     1536. 

Valturius,  R.     De  re  Militari.      1472. 

Veteres  de  re  Militari.     1487. 
Milton,  Life  of.    v.  Todd. 
MocKETT,  T.    Christmas,    v.  Christmas. 
Monmouthshire,    v.  Coxe. 
Montague,  Countess  of.    v.  Smith,  R. 
Moors  in  Spain. 

Bleda,  J.    Coronica  de  los  Moros.   1618. 

Marmol  Caravaial  L.  de.      Historia  del 
Rebelion.     1600. 
More,  Sir  T.     Life.     v.  Hoddesdon. 
„  „         Roper. 

„  „        Stapleton. 

Morton,  T.,  Bp.  of  Durham,   v.  Barwick. 
Moxa,  Arte  de  la  lengua.     v.  Marban. 
MUNDUS  Novus.    v.  Vesputius. 
Music. 

Bassani,  G.  B.   Resi  Armonici .   1691. 

Bateson's  Madrigals.    1604. 

Belli,  G.    Madrigali.    1586. 

Bickham,G.  Music.  Entertainer.  [i737-] 

Blow,  J.  Musical  Entertainment.  1685. 

Buonavita,  A.   Madrigali.    1587. 

Butler,  C.    Principles  of  Music.    1636. 

Byrd,  G.    Sacra?  Cantiones.     1589. 

Calliope,  or  English  Harmony.    [1760.] 

Caroso,  F.     II  Ballarino.    1581. 

Caza,  T.    Tractate  de  Canto.     1492. 

CochlcEus,  J.    Tetrachordum.    1520. 

Columna,  J.  P.    Psalmi.     1694. 

Compendium  Musices.     15 13. 

Croce,  Gio.  Musica  Sacra  to  Sixevoyces. 
1608. 


1784 


INDEX. 


}A\JS\C—confimied. 
Davidson,  T.    Cantus.    1682. 
Dowlaiid,  J.   Sec.  book  of  Songs.  1602. 
Dumont,  H.  Motets  a  deux  voi.x.  166S. 
Flores  Musice.    1488. 
Hilton,  J.    Ayres  for  3  voices.    1627. 
Jacopus   de  Reno   In  laudem  Musice. 

Antv.    1491.    V.  Dialogus. 
King,  W.    Cowley's  Poems,  Songs  and 

Airs.    1668. 
Lawes,  H.    Psalmes.     1648. 
„  Ayres.    1655-8. 

„  Treasury  of  Music.    i66g. 

Lorenzani,  P.    Motets.    1693. 
Madrigals.    MS.    3  vols. 
Mazzone,  M.  A.    Madrigali.    1569. 
Morley,  T.  First  book  of  Balletts.  1595. 
„  Madrigals  to  5  voyces.  1 598. 

„  „  4  voyces.  1600. 

„  Triumphs  of  Oriana.     1601. 

„  Cansonets.    1606. 

Mosto,  G.  B.    .Madrigali.    1583. 
Ornithoparcus,  A.     Micrologus.     1609. 
Oi-pheus  Britannicus.    1760. 
Pascarola.    Madrigali.     1589. 
Playford,  J.  Catch  that  catch  can.   1667. 
Pozzo,  V.    Madrigali.     1585. 
Psalterium.  Book  of  Psalms  by  Ravens- 
croft.    1 62 1. 
Purcell,  H.  Music.  Entertainment.  1684. 
Ravenscroft,  T.    Pammelia.     1609. 

„  Deuteromelia.    1609. 

„  Melismata.    161 1. 

„  Discourse  of  charac- 

tering.    1 6 14. 
Reno,  J.  de.    Tract,  in  laudem  musice 

artis.     1491.    V.  Dialogus. 
Scaramella,  B.    Madrigali.    1591. 
Smith,  J.  S.    English  Songs.    1779. 
Tallis,  T.    Cantiones.    1575. 
Thompson,  P.      200  Country  Dances. 

1720. 
Universal  Harmony.     [1760.] 
Universal  Musician.     [1750.] 
Verso,  A.    Madrigali.     [1590.J 
Virgelli,  E.    Madrigali.     1 594. 
Ward,  G.    Madrigals.    161 3. 
Weelkes,  T.    Madrigals.    1 597. 
„  „  1600. 

„  Balletts    and    Madrigals. 

1608. 
Weelkcs,  T.    Ayercs.    1608. 


Music — continued. 
Wilbye,  J.  First  set  of  Madrigals.   1598. 
„  Second    set    of    Madrigals. 

1609. 
Wilson,  J.   Cheerful  Ayres.     1660. 
Yonge,  N.    Musica  Trans-alpina.  1588. 
„  .,  2nd 

book.     1597. 

Navioation. 

Dee,  Jo.  Gen.  and  rare  memorials.  1577. 

Gee,J.  Tradeand  Nav. considered.  1731. 

Janss,  L.  Spieghel  der  Zeevaerdt.   1585. 

Lynton,  A.    Complement  of  Nav.  1609. 

Seaman's  Calendar. 

Taisnierus,  G.    Book  on  Nav.    [«.  «'.] 
Newcastle.  Gardiner,  R.  Englands grie- 
vance discovered.    1655. 
Newe  Unbekandthe  Landte.     v.  Vespu- 

tius. 
Norfolk. 

Manship,  H.  Hist,  of  Yarmouth.  1654-6. 
Northamptonshire. 

Baker,   G.     History   of    Northampton- 
shire.   1822-41. 

Gunton,  S.    Hist,  of  Peterburgh  Cathe- 
dral.   1686. 

Morton,  J.    Natural  History  of  North- 
amptonshire.   1712. 
Northumberland. 

Barker,  J.    Plagues  of  Northumb.  1570. 

Hodgson,  J.    History   of  Northumber- 
land.   1 820- 5  8. 
North-West  Passage,  v.  Fogstrom.  1704. 
Norway,     v.  Pontoppidan. 
Norwich. 

Garter,  B.    Joyful  receiving  of  Q.  Eliz. 
[1578.] 

Norwich,  History  of.    1728. 
,,        Essay  on.    1728. 
„        Depositions  concerning.  1864. 
Nottinghamshire. 

Thoroton,  R.    Antiquities  of.    1677. 
Nouveau  Monde,    v.  Vesputius. 

Ornithology. 

Bewick,  T.     British  Birds.     1790-1S04. 

Gould,  J.     Birds  of  Europe.     1837. 

Gray,  G.  R.     Genera  of  Birds.    1844-9. 

Levvin,  W.    Birds  of  Gt.  Britain.    1789. 

Ornithologia  Nova.     1743-5. 
OriEKiiouRNE,  T.    Historia.  v.  Hearne. 


INDEX. 


1785 


Oxford,  Books  printed  at. 

Hieronymus   Expositio   in   Symboliim. 

1478. 
Lomatius,  J.  P.     Artes  of  Painting,  &c. 

1598. 
Oxfordshire. 

Kennett's  Parochial  Antiquities.     1695. 
Plot,  R.     Hist,  of  Oxfordshire.      1705. 
Rowe,  J.     Tragi-Comoedia  at   Witney. 

1653- 

Paesi  novamente  ritrovati.  v.  Vesputius. 
Pageants. 

Bochius,  J.    Adventus  Ernesti.     1595. 

Bulteel,  J.     London's  Triumph.     1656. 

Campion,  T.  Royal  Entertainment. 
1613. 

Chapman,  G.  Masque  of  Innes  of  Court. 

[i6i3-] 
Charles  I.     Entertainment  at  Madrid. 

1623. 
Charles  I.     Entertainment  at  Madrid, 

continued.     1623. 
Charles  I.     L'Ordre  des    Cdrdmonies. 

1625. 
Charles  I.     Ceremonies  at  his  marriage 

contract.     1625. 
Charles  1.   Ceremonies  at  his  marriage. 

1625. 
Charles    I.      Entertainment   at    Edin- 
burgh.    1633. 
Charles  I.      Entertainment  into   .Scot- 
land.    1 64 1. 
Charles  I.     Ovatio  Carolina.     1641. 
Charles  II.  Ordre  et  Ccrdmonies.  1630. 
Decker,  T.  Entertainment  to  K.  James. 

1603. 
Decker,  T.     Troia  Noua  Triumphans. 

1612. 
Dugdale,  Gilb.     The  time  triumphant. 

1604. 
Dupuys,  R.     Entree  de  Charles,  Prince 

d'Espaigne.     151 5. 
Ferdinand   V.      El    Recebimiento    en 

Valladolid.     [1513.] 
Garter,  B.     Joyful  receiving  of  O.  Eliz. 

at  Norwich.     1578. 
Grapheus,  C.     Le  Triumphe  d'Anvers. 

1550. 
Harrison,  S.     Arch's   of  Triumph  for 

James  I.     1603. 
Henry,  Prince.     Baptism.     1603. 


Pacikants  —continued. 

Henry,  Prince.    Creation  of  the  Prince. 

1610. 
Heywood,  T.      Londons  Jus   Honora- 
rium.    1631. 
Heywood,  T.    Londini  Speculum.    1637. 
James  I.     Entertainments  on  his  Jour- 
ney.    1603. 
Jonson,  B.  Entertainment  of  K.  James. 

1604. 
Jonson,  B.  Hymenaii.     1606. 

„  Masque  of  Queens.     1609. 

Jordan,  T.  London's  Resurrection.  1671. 

„  London  Triumphant.     1672. 

„  The     Goldsmith's    Jubilee. 

1674. 

Jordan,  T.  Triumphs  of  London.    1675. 

„  London's  Triumphs.      1676. 

„  »  „  1677- 

„  Triumphs  of  London.    1678. 

„  London  in  Luster.     1679. 

„  London's  Glory.     1680. 

„  London's  Joy.     1681. 

„  Triumphs  of  London.    1683. 

London's  love  to  Prince  Henrie.     1610. 
London's  Love,  &c.     1641. 
Machaud,  J.   B.     Eloges  et   Discours. 

1629. 
Masque.      King   and  Queene's   Enter- 
tainment.    1636. 
Maxwell,   J.      Monument   of   Remem- 
brance.    161 3. 
Munday,     A.       Metropolis     Coronata. 

1615. 
Munday,  A.     Chrysanaleia.     16 16. 
Naile,  R.     Entertainment  to  Q.  Anne. 

1613. 
Nichols,  J.     Progresses.     1788- 1828. 
Nichols,  J.  G.     Accounts  of  Royal  Pro 

cessions.     1831. 
Ogilby,  J.    Entertainment  of  Charles  1 1 

1661. 
Ogilby,  J.    Entertainment  of  Charles  1 1 

1662. 
Pageant.  Descrip.  Pegmatum,&c.  1594. 
„         Le  Triomphes  en  Angleterre. 

1613. 
Pageant.      The     Triumphs    of    Paris, 

1660. 
Philip   II L     Relacion  del  aparato,  &c 

1599- 
Phihp  IV.    Relacion  verdadera.    1608. 


1786 


INDEX. 


V  KG^k'^T^— continued. 
Robarts,   H.     Entertainment  of  Chris- 
tian IV.     1606. 
Robarts,  H.    England's  farewell.    1606. 
Roos,  Lord.     Entertainment  in  Spain. 

1617. 
Settle,  E.    Triumphs  of  London.     1691. 
n  y,  „  1692. 

1693. 
Shirley,  J.     Triumph  of  Peace.     1633. 
Tatham,  J.    London's  Triumph.     1658. 
„  The  Royal  Oake.     1660. 

„  London's  Glory.     1660. 

„  Aqua  Triumphalis.     1662. 

Taubman,  M.    London's  Jubilee.    1686. 
„  London's  Triumph.  1687. 

„  London's  Great  Jubilee. 

1689. 
Taylor,  J.     England's  Comfort.     1641. 
Triumphant  Arch  at  Lisbon.     1619. 
Weckerlin,  G.   R.     Triumf  der  Kind- 

tauf.     1616. 
■Wirre,  H.  Ordenlich  Beschreybung,  &c. 
1568. 
P.'ilNTING. 

Boschini,   M.     La  carta  del  Navegar. 

1660. 
Carducho,  V.     Dialogos  de  la  Pintura. 

1634. 
Lomatius,  J.   P.     Art  of  Painting,  &c. 

1598. 
Pacheco,  F.    Arte  de  la  Pintura.    1649. 
Painting.     Kurzer  Bericht.  MS. 
Walpole,  H.     Anecdotes.     1765. 
„  „  1826. 

Paraguay. 
Techo,  N.  del.  Hist.  Prov.  Paraguaria:. 

1673- 

Passe,  Crispin  de.  Engravings  by. 
Abus  du  Mariage.     1641. 
Hillaire,  J.    Speculum  Heroicum.  1613. 
Holland,  H.   Herwologia  Anglica.  1620. 
Passe,  C.  de.    Effigies  Regum.     [1598.] 
„  Regia;  Angl.  Maj.     1613. 

„  Liber  Genesis.     1616. 

„  Dehciarum  Juvenilium  libel- 

lus.     [s.  a.] 
Rollenhagius,  G.     Nucleus  Emblcma- 
tum.     1611-13. 
Patrick,  St.    v.  Thyrseus. 
Penn,  W.,  Vindication  of.     1683. 
Phiijp  II.  of  Spain,     v.  Darinel. 


Philippine  Islands,    v.  Antonio. 

„  „  Language    of       v. 

Totanes. 
Phips,  SirW.    Life.    v.  Mather.    Appen- 
dix. 
PiCKLEHERRING.     V.  English. 
Picture  of  a  Wanton,     v.  S.,  F. 
Plays,   Catalogue    of.      1661.      v.  Tom 

Tyler. 
Plays,  Old  English. 

Alarum  for  London.     1602. 

Armin,  R.    Two  maids  of  More-clacke. 

1609. 
Armin,  R.     Italian  Taylor.     1609. 
Barrey,  L.  Ram  Alley.   1636.  \.  Appen- 
dix. 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher.  Works.  1647. 
„  „  Cupids       Re- 

venge.    1630. 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher.     Knight  of  the 
burning  pestle.     1635.     v.  Appendix. 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher.    Wit  without 

money.     1639. 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher.    Wild  Goose 

chase.     1652. 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher.    King  and  no 

King.     1655. 
Behn,  A.     Works.     1761. 

„  The  Widow  Ranter.     1690. 

Belcher,  D.     Hans  Beer  pot.     1618. 
Brandon,  S.     Octavia.     1598. 
Brome,  R.    Works.     1653-g. 

„  The  Antipodes.  1640.  \.Ap- 

pendi.Y. 
Brome,  R.  The  Sparagus  Garden.  1640. 

V.  Appendix. 
Brome,  R.     A  Joviall  Crew.     1641.     v. 

Appendix: 
Brome,   R.      The    Queens    Exchange. 

1657.     V.  Appendix. 
Burnell,  H.    Landgartha.    1641.  v.  Ap- 
pendix. 
C.  J.     Two  Merr>'  Milk  Maids.     1620. 
Carew,  Lady  E.     Mariam.     161 3. 
Carlell,    L.      The    deserving    favorite. 

1629.     V.  Appendix. 
Carlell,  L.  The  passionate  lovers.   1655. 

V.  Appendix. 
Cartwright,  W.     Comedies.     1651. 

„  The     Royall      Slave. 

1639. 
Centlivre,  S.     Works.     1761. 


INDEX. 


\7%7 


Plays,  Old  English — continued. 

Chamberlaine,    R.      The    Swaggering 

damsell.     1640. 
Chamberlaine,  R.  Love's  Victory.  1658. 

V.  Appendix. 
Chapman,  G.    All  Fooles.     1605. 

„  Monsieur  d"01ive.     1606. 

„  Bussy  d'Ambois.     1607. 

„  Conspiracie    of     Biron. 

1608. 
Chapman,    G.      Ctesar    and    Pompey. 

1 63 1.     V.  Appendix. 
Chapman,  G.  Tragedie  of  Chabot.  1639. 
„  „        of     Alphonsus. 

1654. 
Chapman,  G.  Revenge  for  Honour.  1654. 
Charles  I.     Famous  Tragedie.     1649. 
Chettle,  H.  Tragedie  of  Hoffman.  1631. 

V.  Appendix. 
Gibber,  C.     Works.     1777. 
Cockain,  A.    The  obstinate  lady.    1657. 

V.  Appendix. 
Congreve,  W.     Works.     1753. 
1761. 
Cooke,  J.    Green's  Tu  quoque.     1622. 
Corneille,   T.     Extravagant   Shepherd. 

1654. 
D.,  T.     The  Bloodie  Banquet.     1639. 

„        The    Knave   in   Grain.     1640. 

V.  Appendix. 
Daborn,  R.     A  Christian  turned  Turk. 

1639- 
Daborn,  R.     The  poor  man's  comfort. 

1655. 
Darius.    1565. 
DavenantjW.   Works.    1673. 

„  Temple  of  Love.    1634. 

„  Prince  d'Amour.    1635. 

„  Britannia    Triumphans. 

1637- 
Davenant,  W.    Salmacida  Spolia.  1639. 
„  Entertainment.    1657. 

„  Man's  the  Master.  1669. 

„  Siege  of  Rhodes.    1670. 

Davenport,  R.    New  Trick.    1639. 
„  King  John.    1655. 

„  City  Night-cap.    1661. 

Day,  Jo.    Law  Trickes.    1608. 

„  Blind     Beggar     of     Bednal 

Green.    1659. 
Decker,  T.    Old  Fortunatus.    1600. 
„  Satiromastix.    1602. 


Plays,  Old  'EngWih—coniinited. 

Decker,  T.    Sir  Thomas  Wyat.    1607. 
„  The    Whore    of    Babylon. 

1607. 
Decker,  T.    North-ward  Hoe.    1607. 
„  West-ward  Hoe.     1607. 

„  If  it  be  not  good  the  devil 

is  in  it.     1612. 
Decker,  T.    Match  me  in  London.  1631. 
Doctor  Dodypoll.    1600. 
Drue,  T.    Duchess  of  Suffolk.     1631. 
Drum.  Jack  Drum's  Entertainment.  16 1 6. 
Dryden,  J.    Dramatic  Works.     1762. 
„  Secret  love.    1668. 

„  Sir  Martin  Mar-all.    1668. 

„  The  Rival  ladies.     1669. 

„  The  Wild  Gallant.    1669. 

„  Tyrannick  Love.    1670. 

„  The  Tempest.     1670. 

Etherege,  G.    Works.     17 15. 
Everie  woman  in  her  humour.     1609. 
Fair  Em.    1631. 
Farquhar,  G.    Works.     1772. 
Female  Rebellion.     1872. 
Field,  N.   A  Woman  is  a  Weathercock. 

1612. 
Field,  N.   Amends  for  Ladies.    1618. 
Fletcher,  J.    The  Woman  Hater.    1607. 
„  The    Two    Noble    Kins- 

men.    1634. 
Fletcher,  J.    Monsieur  Thomas.    1639. 
„  RoUo    D.   of    Normandy. 

1640. 
Fletcher,  J.    Rule  a  Wife.    1640. 

„  The  Night- Walker.    1640. 

Fletcher,  P.    Sicelides.    1631. 
Flodden  Field.    1664. 
Foote,  S.    Works.    1777. 
Ford,  J.    Love's  Sacrifice.    1633. 
„  Perkin  Warbeck.    1634. 

„  The  Fancies.     1638. 

„  The  Ladies  Triall.     1639. 

„  The  Sun's  darling.     1657. 

FuUonius,  Gul.    Comedy  of  Acolastus. 

1540. 
Garrick,  D.    Works.    1798. 
Gay,  J.    Works.     1772. 
George  a  Green.    1 599. 
Ghost,  The.    1653. 
Glapthorne,  H.     Argalus  and  Parthe- 

nia.    1639. 
Glapthorne,  H.     The  Hollander.    1640. 


1788 


INDEX. 


Plays,  Old  English — coittimicd. 
Glapthorne,  H.    The  Ladies  privilege. 

1640. 
Glapthorne,  H.     Wit  in  a  Constable. 

1640. 
Glapthorne,  H.     Albertus  Wallenstein. 

1640. 
Goffe,  T.    The  raging  Turke.    1631. 

„  The  couragious  Turke.    1632. 

Gough,  J.  The  Strange  Discovery.  1640. 
Gratia:  Theatrales.    1662. 
Greene,  A.  The  Politician  cheated.  1663. 
Greene,  R.     Scottish  Historie  of  James 

IV.    1598. 
Greene,  R.     Historie  of  Orlando  Fu- 

rioso.    1 599. 
Greene,  R.   Hist,  of  Friar  Bacon.  1630. 
Grotius,  H.    Christ's  Passion.    1640. 
„  ,,  „  1687.  V. 

Appendix. 
Harding,  S.    Sicily  and  Naples.    1640. 
Haugton,  W.    A  woman  will  have  her 

Will.    1 63 1. 
Hawkins,  W.   Apollo  Shroving.  [1627.] 
Head,  R.    Hie  et  Ubique.    1659. 
Heywood,  T.   Ifyouknownotme.   1605. 
„  Rape  of  Lucrece.    160S. 

„  (2ueen    Elizabeth's    trou- 

bles.   1609. 
Heywood,  T.  The  Golden  Age.    161 1. 
„  Edward  IV.    1613. 

„  The  Silver  Age.    1613. 

„  The  Brazen  Age.    161 3. 

„  Woman  killed  with  kind- 

ness.   161 7. 
Heywood,  T.     Fair  Maid  of  the  West. 

1631. 
Heywood,  T.     Fair  Maid  of  the  West. 

2nd  pt.    1 63 1. 
Heywood,  T.    The  Iron  Age.    1632. 

„  The  Four  Prentises.  1632. 

„  The  Engl.  Traveller.  1633. 

„  The  Lancashire  Witches. 

1634. 

Heywood,T.  Maidenhead  well  lost.  1634. 

„  A  Challenge  for  Beautie. 

1636. 

Heywood,  T.    The  Fayre  maid  of  the 

E.Kchange.    1637. 
Heywood,  T.  The  Royal  King.    1637. 
„  TheWise-woman  of  Hogs- 

don.    1638. 


Plays,  Old  V.xi'^\'i\\— continued. 

Heywood,  T.   Love's  Mistress.    1640. 
„  Fortune  by  Land  and  Sea. 

1655. 
Histrio  Mastix.     1610. 
Holyday,  B.    Technogamia.     1618. 
Home,  J.    Works.    1760. 
Hotman,  F.    The  Ambassador.     1603. 
Howard,  R.    Works.     1722. 
John,  Troublesome  Raigne  of  King.  16 1 1 . 
Jonson,  Ben.    Works.    18 16.     9  vols. 
1616. 
„  Sejanus  his  fall.    1605. 

„  The  New  Inne.    1631. 

„  The  Widow.    1652. 

Jordan,  T.    Fancy's  Festivals.    1657. 
„  Walks  of  Islington.     1657. 

„  Money  is  an  asse.    1668. 

Kellie,  R.    Borosco.    MS. 
„  „  1870. 

Killigrew,  H.    The  Conspiracy.    1638. 
„  Pallantus   and    Eudora. 

1653- 
Killigrew,  T.    Works.    1664. 

„  The  Prisoners.    1641. 

Killigrew,  W.   Three  plays.    1665. 
Kirke,  J.    Seven  Champions.     1638. 
Knevett,  R.    Rhodon  and  Iris.     1631. 
Kyd,  T.    The  Spanish  Tragedy.    1623. 
Lady  Alimony.     1659. 
Lear,  Chronicle  History  of.    1605. 
Lee,  N.    Works.    1734. 
Lillo,  G.    Works.    1775. 
Lingua.     1632. 

1657- 
London  Chaunticleeres.    1659. 
Lower,  W.    The  Phrenix,  &c.    1639. 
„  TheEnchantedlovers.1658. 

„  The     Noble     Ingratitude. 

1659. 
Lower,  W.    The  Amorous  Fantasme. 

1660. 
Luminalia.    1637. 
Lyly,  J.     Campaspe.     1584. 

„  Love's  Metamorphosis.    1601. 

„  Sixe  Court  Comedies.     1632. 

Machin,  L.    The  Dumb  Knight.     1608. 
Markham,   G.     Herod  and  Antipater. 

1622. 
Markham,G.  The  famous  Whore.  1609. 
Marlowe,  C.    Edward  II.     1612. 


INDEX. 


1789 


Plays,  Old  English— i-(7;;//«7/c^. 

Marlowe,  C.     Doctor  F.iustus.     1631. 

„  Jew  of  Malta.     1633. 

Marmion,  Sh.     The  Antiquary.     1641. 
Marston.  J.     Works.     1633. 

„  Antonio's  Revenge.   1602. 

„  The  Malcontent.     1604. 

„  „  1604. 

„  Parasitaster.     1606. 

„  „  1606. 

„  What  you  will.     1607. 

„  The  Insatiate  Countesse. 

1631. 
Massinger,  P.  Works.     1613. 

„  The  Virgin  Martyr.  1622. 

„  The  Bond-Man.     1624. 

n  »  '638. 

„  The  Roman  Actor.  1629. 

„  The  Renegado.     1630. 

„  The  Picture.     1630. 

„  The  Fatall  Dowry.    1632. 

„  The    Maid    of    Honour. 

1632. 
Massinger,  P.  The  Emperor  of  theEast. 

1632. 
Massinger,  P.     New   Way  to  pay  old 

Debts.     1633. 
Massinger,  P.    The  great  Duke  of  Flo- 
rence.    1636. 
Massinger,  P.     The  Duke  of  Millaine, 

1638. 
Massinger,  P.  The  Unnatural  Combat. 

1639. 
Massinger,  P.  Three  New  Plays.    1655. 
„  The  Old  Law.     1656. 

„  The  City  Madam.     1659. 

May,  T.     The  Old  Couple.     1658. 
Mayne,  J.     The  City  Match.     1639. 

„  The  Amorous  Warre.  1648. 

Merry  Devil  of  Edmonton.     161 2. 
Middleton,T.  Mich.  Terme.   1607. 
)>  »  1630. 

„  The  Phoenix.     1607. 

„  TheFamelieof  Love.  1608. 

„  A  Tricke  to  catch  the  old 

one.    1608. 
Middleton,  T.     A  Mad  World.     1608. 
„  A    Game    at    Chesse. 

[1625.] 
Middleton,  T.     Two  new  plays.     1657. 
„  The    Mayor   of  Ouin- 

borough.     1 66 1. 


10 


Pr.AVS,  Old  English — coHtinued. 
Miracle  Plays.     1838. 
Mountfort,  W.     -Six  plays.     1720. 
Muccdorus,  Comedie  of.     1618. 
Munday,  A.     Downfall  of  Robert,  E.  of 

Huntington.     1601. 
Munday,  A.      Death  of  Robert,  E.  of 

Huntington.     1601. 
Nabbes,  T.     Microcosmus.     1637. 
„  Covent  Garden.     1638. 

„  Totenham  Court.     1638. 

„  TheSpring'sGlorie.    1638. 

„  The  Unfortunate  Mother. 

1640. 
Nabbes,  T.    The  Bride.     1640. 
Nash,  T.     Summers' Last  Wdl.    1609. 
Nero,  The  Tragedy  of.     1624. 
New  Custom.     1573. 
Newcastle,  Duke   of.     Two  Comedies. 

1649. 
Newcastle,  Duchess  of.     Plays.     1662. 

1668. 
Nicholson,  S.     Acolastus.     1600. 
Nobody  and  -Somebody.     [1606.] 
Otway,  T.     Works.     1757. 
„  ,>  1813. 

Peele,  G.     Battle  of  Alcazar.     1594. 
„  David  and  Bathsheba.  1 599. 

„  Edward  1st.     1599. 

„  Historie    of     Two    Valiant 

Knights.     1599. 
Plays,  Collection  of  old.  Edited  by  Col- 
lier.    1825. 
Pleasant  Comedy.     1604. 

„  „  1634.  v.  Appendix. 

Porter,  H.     Two  Angry  Women.   1599. 
Preston,  T.     Cambises.     [1600.] 
Quarles,  F.     The  Virgin  Widow.  1649. 
Queen,  The.     1653. 

R.  W.  The  Christmas  Ordinary.    1682. 
Randolph,  T.     Aristippus.     1630. 

„  The  Jealous  Lovers.  1634. 

Rawlins,  T.     The  Rebellion.     1640. 
Return  from  Parnassus.     1606. 
Richards,   N.     Tragedy  of  Messalina. 

1640. 
Rowe,  N.     Works.     1756. 
Rowley,  S.     When  you  see  me.     16 13. 
„  The  Noble  Soldier.     1634. 

Rowley,  W.     A  new  Wonder.     1632. 
„  All's  Lost  by  Lust.     1633. 

„  Birth  of  Merlin.     1662. 

I 


i;90 


INDEX. 


Plays,  Old  English— ro«//««^rf. 

Rutter,  J.     The  Shepherds'  Holyday. 

1635- 
S.  G.     Prince  of  Priggs  Revels.     1661. 
S.  S.     The  Honest  Lawyer.     1616. 
Sackville,  T.  Tragedie  of  Ferrex.   1570. 
„  Tragedie     of    Gorboduc. 

1590. 
Selimus,  Tragicall  raigne  of    IS94- 
Settle,  E.     Empress  of  Morocco.  1673. 
Shadwell,  T.     Works.     1720. 
Shakespeare,  W.     Works.     1623. 

»  „  1632. 

„  „  1663. 

„  „  1664. 

„  „  1685. 

„  „  1762. 

„  „  1785-6. 

»  „  1790- 

J.  „  1793- 

„  „  1S14. 

.,  »  1853-65. 

»  „  1857- 

„  „         1862-4. 

„  Richard  II.     1597. 

„  ■  „  1608. 

„  Henry  IV.     1599. 

»  ,,  1613. 

„  „    2ndpt.  1600. 

„  Henry  V.     1608. 

„  Richard  III.     1597. 

„  Romeo    and    Juliet. 

1599- 
Shakespeare,  W.  „        [1630.] 

,)  „  ■637- 

„  Much     Ado     about 

Nothing.     1600. 
Shakespeare,  W.     Midsummer  Night's 

dream.     Roberts.     1600. 
Shakespeare,  W.     Midsummer  Night's 

dream.     Fisher.     1600. 
Shakespeare,  W.     Merchant  of  Venice. 

1600. 
Shakespeare,   W.      Merry    Wives    of 

Windsor.     1602. 
Shakespeare,   W.      Merry    Wives     of 

Windsor.   16 19. 
Shakespeare,  W.     Hamlet.     1604. 
»  „  1611. 

„  „  [;;.  d.] 

„  Lear.     1608. 

„  Troylus.     1609. 


Pl.AYS,  Old  English — continued. 
Shakespteare,  W.     Othello.     1622. 

»  7.  1630- 

„  Julius  Ca:sar.  [1680.] 

„  Titus      Andronicus. 

1611. 
Shakespeare,  W.     Pericles.     1609. 
,,  ,.         [«•  d:\ 

„  SirJ.Oldcastle.  1600. 

„  The  London  Prodi- 

gal.    1605. 
Shakespeare,  W.     The  Puritan.     1607. 
„  Thomas  Lord  Crom- 

well.    161 3. 
Shakespeare,  W.  A  Yorkshire  Tragedy. 

1619. 
Sharpe,  L.   The  Noble  Stranger.  1640. 
Shirley,    H.     The    Martyr'd    Soldier. 

163S. 
Shirley,  J.     Works.     1833. 

„  The  Grateful]  Servant.  1630. 

„  Changes.     1632. 

„  Contention    for     Honour. 

1633. 
„  The  Wedding.     1633. 

„  The  Bird  in  a  Cage.  1633. 

„  The  Traytor.     1635. 

„  The  Lady  of  Pleasure.  1637. 

„  Hide  Park.     1637. 

„  The  Example.     1637. 

„  The  Gamester.     1637. 

„  TheGratefuUServant.  1637. 

„  The  Young  Admirall.  1637. 

„  The  Royall  Master.    1638. 

„  The  Duke's  Mistris.    1638. 

„  The  Ball.     1639. 

„  The  Maides  Revenge.  1639. 

„  The  Coronation.     1640. 

„  St.  Patrick.     1640. 

„  The  Constant  Maid.    1640. 

„  The   Humorous    Courtier. 

1640. 
„  Love's  Crueltie.     1640. 

„  A  Pastorall.     1640. 

„  The  Opportunitie.     1640. 

„  Gentlemen  of  Venice.  1656. 

„  Two  Plays.     1657. 

„  Honoria     and     Mammon. 

1659. 
Shirley,  J.     Love  will  find  out  the  way. 

1661. 
Sir  Giles  Goosecappe.     1C06. 


INDEX. 


1791 


Plays,  Old  'E.Vi^xiV— continued. 
Smith,  W.     Hector  of  Germany.   1615. 
Steele,  R.     Works.     1761. 
Still,  J.  Gammer  Gurton's  needle  1575. 
Stirling,   Earl   of.      The   Tragedie    of 

Darius.     1603. 
Stirling,  Earl  of     Monarchick    Trage- 
dies.    1604. 
Stirling,  Earl  of     Monarchick    Trage- 
dies.    1 61 6. 
Strode,  W.     The  floating  Island.  1655. 
Strollers'  Packet  Opened.     1742. 
Stukely,  Captain.     Life  of     1605. 
Suckling,  J.  The  Discontented  Colonel. 

1640. 
Swetnam,  The  Woman  Hater,  &c.  1620. 
Swinhoe,  G.     Tragedy  of  Irene.    1658. 
Tailor,  R.     The  Hogge  hath  lost  his 

Pearle.     1614. 
Tatham,  J.  The  Distracted  State.  165 1. 
„  The  Scots' Figaries.    1652. 

Tom  Tyler  and  his  Wife.     1661. 
Tomkis,  J.     Albumazar.     1634. 
Tourneur,  C.  The  Revenger's  Tragedie. 

1607. 
Tourneur,  C.     The  Atheist's  Tragedie. 

1612. 
Townshend,  A.  Tempe  Restored.  1631. 
„  Albion's  Triumph.  163 1. 

Vanbrugh,  J.     Plays.     1776. 
W.,  J.     The  Valiant  Scot.     1637. 
Waller,  E.     The  Maid's  Tragedy.  1690. 
Warning  for  Fair  Women.     1599. 
Weakest  goeth  to  the  wall.     161 8. 
Webster,  J.     Duchess  of  Malfy.     1623. 
„  White  Divel.     161 2. 

„  Devil's  Law-case.     1623. 

„  Appius  and  Virginia.  1659. 

„  Two  plays.     1661. 

Welshman,  The  Valiant.     1663. 
Wilkins,  Geo.   Miseries  of  Inforst  Mar- 
riage.    1637. 
Wily  Beguiled.     1635. 
Wycherly,  W.     Plays.     1720. 
Poetry,  History  of  English,  v.  Warton. 
Poetry,  Treatises  on. 

Puttenham,  G.  English  Poesie.  1589. 
Sidney,  P.  Apology  for  Poetry.  1595. 
Poetry,  English. 
A.  H.  The'Scourge  of  Venus.  1613. 
A.,  T.  Massacre  of  Money.  1602.  v. 
Appendix. 


Poetry,  ^■c\^\%\\—contijuit'd. 
Abbott    Rivers.    Devout    Rhapsodies. 

1648. 
Ad  I'opulum.     1644. 
Adam  Bell.     v.  Bell. 
Adamson,  J.     Muses' Welcome.     i6i3. 
yEsop.      1665  and  1668. 
Alcilia.      Philoparthens    loving     folly. 

1628. 
Ale.     Exaltation  of.     1666  and  1688. 
Alexis.     An  Interlocution.     \ii.  d.} 
Aleyn,  C.     Crescy  and  Poictiers.    1633. 

„  Henry  VII.     1638. 

Allot,  R.     England's  Parnassus.     1600. 
Amaryllis.     Songs,   &c.     [1750.]       v. 

Appendix. 
Ames,  R.     Search  after  Claret.     1691. 
„  Farther  Search  after  Claret. 

1691. 
Ames,  R.     Last  Search    after    Claret. 

1691. 
Ames,  R.  Bacchanahan  Sessions.  1693. 
„        Fatal  Friendship.     1693.     v. 

Appendix. 
Anacreon  in  English.  1683.  v.  Appendix. 
Andrewe,  T.  Feminine  Machiavel.  1604. 
Andronicus, Titus.  Tragical  Hist.  \n.d.\ 
Antidote  against  Melancholy.  168 1. 
Anton,  R.  Philosophers'  Satyrs.  1618. 
Antrobus,  B.     Buds  and   Blossoms  of 

Piety.     1 7 16. 
Ariosto.     Orlando  Furioso.     1591. 

„         Satyres.     160S. 
Arwaker,  E.     Truth  in  Fiction.      1708. 
Ashmole,  E.Theatrum  Chemicum.  1652. 
Assizes  in  Parnassus.     1645. 
Audley,  Lady  E.  Amend,  Amend.  1643. 
Austin,  S.     Urania.     1629. 

„  Naps  on  Parnassus.     1658. 

Aylet,  J.  R.     Susanna.     1622. 

„  A  Wife,  not  ready  made. 

1653. 
Aylet,  J.     Divine  Speculations.    1654. 
Ayres,  P.     Lyric  Poems.     1687. 
Bacon,  F.     Psalms  translated.     1625. 
Bagwell,  W.  Merchant  Distressed.  1644. 
Baldwin,  W.     Funerals   of  Edw.    VI. 

1560. 
Ballads. 

Ballard,  G.     Hist,  of  Susanna.     1638. 
Balmford,  W.     Seaman's   Companion. 

1678. 


1792 


INDEX. 


Poetry,  English— ««//«?<?(/. 

Baltharpe,  J.     The   Straights   Voyage. 

1671. 
Bancroft,  T.     Glutton's  Fever.     1633. 
„  Epigrams.     1639. 

„  Heroical  Lover.     1658. 

Bandello.     Romeus  and  Juliet.     1562. 
Barbour's  Bruce.     1620. 
Barksdale,  C.  Nympha  Libethris.  1651. 
Baron,  R.     Pocula  Castalia.     1650. 

„      Erotopagnion.     v.  Appendix. 
Bastard,  T.     Chrestoleros.     1598. 
Bateson,  T.     Madrigals.     1604. 
Baxter,  R.     Poetical  Fragments.   1699. 
Beaumont,  F.     Poems.   1640  and  1653. 
Beaumont,  Sir  J.  Bosvvorth  Field.  1629. 
Beaumont,  Joseph.     Psyche.     1648. 
Beedome,  T.     Poems.     1641. 
Beling,  R.     The  eighth  day.     1661. 
Bell,  Adam.     1648,  1668,  and  1698. 
Benlowes,  E.     Theophila.     1652. 
Bevis  of  Hampton.     Abfrdetie.     1630. 

„  „  1662. 

Birchensha,  R.     Discourse  on  defeat  of 

Tyrone.     1602. 
Birkhead,  H.     Poematia.     1656. 
Bishops'  last  good-night.     1642. 
Blair's  Works.     1802. 
Blake,  Admiral.    Noble  Achievements. 

1658. 
Blanket  Fair.     1684. 
Bodenham,  J.     Belvedere.     1600. 
Bold,  H.     Wit  a  sporting.     1657. 
Books  of  Godly  Songs.     1621. 
Borfet,  A.    Postliminia  Caroli  II.   i56o. 
Boyd,  Z.     Psalms  of  David.     1648. 
Bradford,  J.  Complaint  of  Veritie.  1559. 
Bradshaigh,  I.     Virginalia.     1632. 
Brandt,  S.     Ship  of  Fools.     1508. 

).  >,  .1  1570- 

Brathwait,  R.    Strappado  for  the  Devil. 

1615. 
Brathwait,  R.     Solemn  Joviall  disputa- 
tion.    1617. 
Brathwait,  R.  The  smoakingage.  1703. 
„  A  new  spring.     1619. 

„  TheShepherd'stales.1621. 

Brathwait,  R.     Time's    curtain  drawn. 

1621. 
Brathwait,  R.  Nature's  Embassie.  1621. 
Brathwait,  R.  Anniversaries.     1635. 
„  Barnabee's  Journal.  [1638.] 


Poetry,  English — continued. 

Brathwait,  R.  Barnabee's  Journal.  1723. 

„  ,,  „  1820. 

„  Psalms  of  David.      1638. 

„  Lancashire  Lovers.    1640. 

„  Astrea's  teares.     164 1. 

„  The  honest  Ghost.     1658. 

Breton,  N.     Flourish  upon  fancie.  1582. 

„  Melancholike      Humours. 

1582. 
Breton,  N.     Wit's  Trenchmour.     1597. 

„  Pasquil's  Passes.     1600. 

„  A  divine  poem.     1601. 

„  Longing  of  a  blessed  heart. 

1601. 
Breton,  N.     Passion  of  a  discontented 

mind.     1601. 
Breton,  N.    The  honor  of  valor.     1605. 

„  The  soul's  immortal  crown. 

1605. 
Breton,  N.    Cornucopice.     1612. 

„  Pasquil's  Madcap.     1626. 

„  The  soul's  harmony.    1635. 

Brett,  A.     The  Restauration.     1660. 
Brewer,  T.     A  knot  of  Fools.     1658. 
Brice,  T.  Compendious  Register.   1559. 
Broadsides.     Various  pieces. 
Brooke,  C.  Ghost  of  Richard  III.  1614. 
Brooke,  Lord.     Works.     1633. 
»  »  ,.  1670. 

Brown,  S.     Hymns.     1 741. 
Browne,  W.  Britannia's  Pastorals.  1616. 
Buchanan,  G.     Epigrams.     1708. 
Buck,  G.     An  Eclog.     1605. 

„  The      great       Plantagenet. 

1635- 
Buck's  delight.     1766. 
Bucke,  J.     Use  of  the  beades.     1589. 
Burns,  R.     Works.     1802. 
„  Poems.     1786. 

1787. 
Butler,  S.  Hudibras,  tScc. 
C,  J.     Saint  Mary  Magd.   Conversion. 

[1604.] 
C,  R.     Historic  of  God  and  Man.  MS. 
C,  W.     Poems.     1684. 
Calliope,  or  English  Harmony.    [1760.] 
Calver,    E.     England's    sad    posture. 

1644. 
Capell,  E.     Prolusions.     1760. 
Cardonnell,   P.    de.     Complementum. 

1662. 


INDEX. 


1793 


Poetry,  V.r^^x'^— continued. 
Carew,  T.     Poems.     1640. 
„  „  1670. 

„  Masque.     1633. 

Carkesse,  J.     Lucida  Inteivalla.     1679. 
Carols. 

Cats,  J.     Self-conflict.     1680, 
Cavalier's  Litanie.     1648. 
Chalkhill,  J.     Thealma  and  Clearchus. 

1683. 
Chamberlayne,  W.    Pharonnida.    1659. 
Chap  Books. 
Chapman,  G.     The  shadow  of  Night. 

1594. 
Chapman,  G.     Euthymiae  raptus.  i6og. 
„  An  Epicede.     161 2. 

„  Pro    Vera     Lachrymas. 

1622. 
Chapman,  G.     Ovid's  Banquet.     1639. 
Charles  I.    New  Year's  Gift.     1644. 
„  Monumentum  Regale.  1649. 

„  Monument  of  Ch.  I.     1649. 

„  Flattering  Elegie.     1649. 

Charles  II.   The  King  advancing.   1660. 
Chaucer,  G.    Canterbury  Tales.  [1478.] 
»»  )>  )»        1520. 

„  „  Works.   1542. 

»         .1       >,    [«•  '?'■] 
„         „       „    1602. 
„         „       „    1822. 

»         »       »    1845- 

Chancers  Ghoast.     1672. 

Chettle,  H.     England's  mourning  gar- 
ment.    [1603.] 

Chimney's  Scuffle.     1662. 

Chorley,  G.     Metrical  Index.     17 11. 

Churchyard,  T.     Chippes.     1575. 

„  Warres   of  Flanders. 

1578. 

Churchyard,  T.     Churchyard's  Choise. 

1579- 
Churchyard,  T.     Churchyard's  Charge. 

1580. 
Churchyard,  T.     Worthines  of  Wales. 

1587. 
Churchyard,  T.     Challenge.     1593. 

„  Musicall         Consort. 

1595- 
Churchyard,  T.   True  discourse.  1602. 
„  Churchyard's       good 

will.     1604. 
Chute,  A.    Beawtie  dishonoured.    1 593. 


Poetry,  English— C(i;//?«?/crt'. 

Clapham,  II.     Bible  History.     1608. 
Clavell,  J.     A  Recantation.     1634. 
Cleveland,  J.     Poems.      1647. 
„  „  1651. 

,,  1659- 

„  „  1687. 

Cocker,  E.     Cocker's  Morals.     1694. 
Cokain,  Sir  A.    Poems.     1658. 
1662. 
Collins,  T.     Penitent  Publican.     1610. 
Collop,  J.     Poesis  rediviva.     1656. 
Colman,  W.     La     Dansc      Machabre. 

[1632.] 
Colse,  P.     Penelope's  complaint.    1 596. 

V.  Appendix. 
Commons'  Petition.     1642. 
Complaint  of  a  lover.   [1540.] 
Conset,  P.     Rodof  recompence.     1606. 
Cooper,   A.      Stratologia,   or    English 

Civil  Wars.     1662. 
Copley,  A.     Fig  for  fortune.     1596. 
Corbet,  Bp.  R.     Poems.     1647. 

„  Poetica  Stromata.     1648. 

Coryat,  T.  Odcombian  Banquet.     161 1. 
Cotgrave,  J.     Wit's  Interpreter.     1671. 
Cotton,  C.     Poems.     1689. 
Cotton,  R.     Spiritual  song.     1596. 

„  An  armour  of  proof.     1596. 

Cowley,  A.    Works.     1681. 

„  Works.     1707. 

„  Poetical  Blossomes.     1633. 

,)  J)  1,  1636. 

„  Poems.     1656. 

„  „     Part  2.     1681. 

„  Verses.     1663. 

Crag,  J.     A  Prophecy.     1641. 
Crashaw,  R.  Steps  to  the  Temple.  1646. 

).  i;  „  J  670. 

„  Carmen  Deo  nostro.    1652. 

Crawford,  Earl  of.    Argo.     1876. 
Cromek's     Nithsdale     and     Galloway 

Song.     1 8 10. 
Crompton,  H.     Poems.     1657. 

„  Pierides.     1658. 

Cromwell.     A  sad  sigh.     1649. 
Crouch,  J.     London's  Bitter-sweet-cup. 

1666. 
Cudmore,  D.     A  prayer  song.     1655. 
Cutts,  J.,  Lord.  Poetical  exercises.  1687. 
D.,  P.    The  Meir  of  CoUington.     1695. 
Daniel,  S.    Works.     1601. 


1794 


INDEX. 


Poetry,  English — continued. 
Daniel,  S.    Works.    1623. 

„  Poetical  Essays.     1599. 

„  Certaine  small  poems.   1605. 

„  Certain  small  works.     1607. 

)»  jj  )»  )j  IDI  I. 

„  Delia.     1592. 

„  „      and  Rosamond.     1594. 

„  Civil  Wars.     1595. 

»  »        ,.         1609. 

„  Panegyrick.     1603. 

1603. 

„  Queen's  Arcadia.     1606. 

Darcie,  A.  Monumental  Pyramid.  1624- 
Davenant,  W.     Madagascar.     1638. 

„  Gondibert.     165 1. 

„  „  1651. 

,,  „  Verses    on. 

1653- 
Davenant,  W.     Gondibert  Vindicated. 

1655. 
Davidson,  T.     Cantus.     1682. 
Davies,  J.,  of  Hereford.    Microcosmos. 

1603. 
Davies,  J.,  of  Hereford.  Bienvenu.  1606. 
„  „  Wittes  Pilgrim- 

age.    1609. 
Davies, J., ofHereford.  Humours.   1609. 
„  „  Scourge  of  Folly. 

1610. 
Davies,  J.,  of  Hereford.     Muses'  Tears. 

1613. 
Davies,  J.,  of  Hereford.     Select  second 

Husband.     1616. 
Davies,  J.,  of  Hereford.     Scourge  for 

paper  persecutors.     1625. 
Davies,  Sir  John.  Nosceteipsum.  1599. 

»  »  »         i6o8- 

„  „  „         1622. 

Davison, F.  A  Poetical Rhapsodie.  i6u. 
„  A  Poetical  Rhapsodie.  1621. 

Day,  Jas.    New  Spring  of  Divine  Poetry. 

1637- 
Day,  Jo.  TheParliament  of  Bees.  1641. 
Debate  between   summer  and  winter. 

i860. 
Decker,  T.  The  Wonderful  yeare.  1603. 
Dedekindus,  F.     School  of   Slovenrie. 

1605. 
De  Franchis,  J.  M.     On   the   m.irriage 

of  the  Princess  Elizabeth.     1613. 
Dclaune,  H.     Patrikon  Doron.     1657. 


Poetry,  English— <-o??//«?/^rt'. 

Delectable  little  history  in  metre.  1695. 
Delights  for  young  men.     [1720.] 
Deloney,  T.  Garland  of  Goodwill.  1685. 

>.  I.  „      [1690-] 

Denham,  J.     Poems.     1668. 

,.  „  1769- 

Denny,  W.     Pelecanicidium.     1653. 
Desportes,  P.Rodomonth's  I  nfemal.  1 607. 
Di,\on,  R.     Canidia.     1683. 
Doddridge's  Hymns.     1755. 
Donne,  J.     First  Anniversarie.     1612. 

„  Poems.     1633. 

1719- 
Drant,  T.     Medicinable  Moral.  1566. 

„  v.  Horace.     1567. 

Drayton,    M.     Legend    of    Robert   of 

Normandy.     1596. 
Drayton,  M.     Poems.     [1606.] 

„  Legend     of    the    Great 

Cromwell.     1 607. 
Drayton,  M.     Poems.     1613. 
»  »  1619. 

»  »  1637- 

„  Muses  Elizium.     1630. 

„  Poly-Olbion.     [1612.] 

„  „  1622. 

„  Battleof  Agincourt.  1627. 

Drolleries.     Choice  Drollery.     1656. 
„  Holborn  Drollery.     1673. 

„  Merry  Drollery.     \ii.  «?.] 

„  Westminster  Drollery.  1 674. 

„  Westminster  Drollery.  Pt. 

2.     1672. 
Drolleries.     Windsor  Drollery.     1672. 
Drumniond,  W.     Teares  on  the  death  of 

Mreliades.     1614. 
Drummond,  W.    Poems.     1616. 

„  Forth  feasting.     1617. 

,,  Flowers  of  Sion.  1630. 

Dryden,  J.  Miscellaneous  Works.  1760. 

Du  Bartas,  G.     Divine  Weeks.   [1605.] 

„  „  1621. 

„  Part  of  Du  Bartas  bv 

W.  L'Isle.     1625. 

Durfey,  T.     Pills  to  purge  Melancholy. 

1719-20. 
Edward  IV.  and  the  Tanner.     [1690.] 
Ellis,  E.     Dia  Poemata.     1655. 
„         Divine  Poems.     1659. 
Ellis,  G.     Specimens  of  English  Poets. 
1790. 


INDEX. 


1795 


Poetry,  Y.x\^\%\\.—centimted. 
Ellis,  G.    Specimens  of  English  Poets. 

1811. 
Elviden,  E.     A  Newyears  (Sift.     1570. 
Emlyn.    liooke  of  Maid  Emlyn.     1530. 
England's  Glory.     1762. 
England's  Helicon.     1614. 
Ephelia.     Female  Poems.     1679. 
Epigrammes.    Mirour  of  New  Reforma- 
tion.    1634. 
Evans's  Old  Ballads.     18 10. 
F.,  C.     Wit  at  a  venture.     1674. 
F.,  E.     Emblem  of  a  virtuous  woman. 

[1650.] 
Fennor,W.  Fennor's  descriptions.  1616. 
„  Pasquil's  Palinodia.     1619. 

Fenton,   J.     K.   James    his    welcome. 

1603. 
Fisher,  Payne.     Poemata.     1656. 
Flatman,  T.     Poems.     1674. 
\  ,,  ,,  1686. 

Flecknoe,  R.     Miscellania.     1653. 
„  Diarium.     1656. 

„  Enigmatical  Characters. 

1658. 
Fleclcnoe,  R.     Heroick  Portraits.  1660. 
„  Enigmatical  Characters. 

1665. 

„  Sir  W.  Davenant's  Voy- 

age.    1668. 
Flecknoe,  R.     Epigrams.     1669. 
„  „  1670. 

»  »  1671. 

„  Euterpe.     1675. 

„  Sports  of  Wit.     [h.  d.] 

Fletcher,  G.  Christ's  Victorie.     1610. 

„  ,,  „  1632. 

„  „  „  1640. 

Fletcher,  P.     The  Locusts.     1627. 

,,  The  Purple  Island.    1633. 

Folly  in  Print.     1667. 

Ford,  J.     Fame's  Memoriall.     1606. 

Ford,  T.     Virtus  Rediviva.     1661. 

Fortune's  Tennis  Ball.     1859. 

Four  leaves  of  True  love.     [n.  d] 

Foxton,  T.     Moral  Songs.     1743. 

Fraunce,  A.     Lamentations  of  Amintas. 
1588. 

Fraunce,  A.      Lady    Pembroke's    Ivy- 
church.     1591. 

Fraunce,  A.      Lady   Pembroke's   Ivy- 
church.     Part  3.     1592. 


Poetry,  E  nglish — continued. 

Fraunce,A.  Lady  Pembroke's  Emanuel. 
1591. 

Freeman,  T.     Rubbe  and  a  great  Cast. 
1614. 

FuUarton,  J.     The  Turtle  Dove.     1664. 

Fuller,  T.  David's  Hainous.Sinne.  1631. 

Fulvvell,  U.  The  Flower  of  Fame.   1575. 

G.,  G.     The  Mirour  of  Maiestie.    1618. 

Gainsford,T.  Vision  of  Henry  VII.  1610. 

Gallant,  A  treatise  of  a.    [«.  </.] 

Garden,  A.      Theatre  of  the  Scottish 
Kings.     1709. 

Garlands  and  Songs. 

Garter,  13.     Joyful  receiving  of  Q.  Eliza- 
beth.    [1578.] 

Gascoigne,  G.     Poems.     1869-70. 

„  Whole  Workes.     1587. 

„  A     hundreth     sundrie 

flowers.     1573. 

Gascoigne,  G.     Posies  of  G.  Gascoigne. 

1575- 
Gascoigne,  G.    The  Steele  Glas.     1576. 
Gayton,  E.     Charts  Scripts.     1645. 
„  Wil.  Bagnal's  Ghost.  1655. 

„  Cinque  Ports.     i566. 

Geddes,  W.     Saint's  recreation.     1683. 
George  of  Denmark,  Pastoral  on.  1683. 
Gerbier,  C.  Elegieon  E.  of  Essex.  1646. 
Glapthorne,  H.     Whitehall.     1643. 
Goldsmith,  O.     The  Traveller.     1765. 
„  Threnodia   Augustalis. 

1772. 
Goldsmith,  O.  Haunch  of  Venison.  1776. 
Gomersall,  R.    Levite's  revenge.    1628. 
Goodall,  B.   The  tryall  of  travell.    1630. 
Goodwin,  J.     Two  Hymns.     1651. 
Googe,  B.     Eglogs,  &c.     1 563. 
Gordon,  P.     History  of  Robert  Bruce. 

1615. 
Gower,  J.     Confessio  Amantis.     1483. 

1532. 
Grange,  J.     Golden  Aphroditis.     1577. 
Gray,  T.     Poems.     1778. 
Green -goose  Fair.     1694. 
Gresham,  Sir  Th.     His  Ghost.     1647. 
Grififin,  B.     Fidessa.     1596. 
Gringoire,  P.     The  Castell  of  Laboure. 

[1500.] 
Guarini,  B.     II  Pastor  Fido.     1648. 
Guide  from  the  Cradle  to  the  Grave. 

•73'- 


1796 


INDEX. 


Poetry,  English — continued. 
H.,  T.  Beautieoftheyearof  grace.  1638. 
Habington,  W.     Castara.     1634. 
„  „  1640. 

Haeften,  B.     Schola  Cordis.     1647. 
Hake,  E.     Of  Gold's  Kingdome.    1604. 
Hall,  J.     Poems.     1646. 
Hall,  Jos.     Virgidemiarum.    1602- 1597. 
Hammond,  W.     Poems.     1655. 
Hannay,  P.     The  Nightingale.     1622. 
Harbert,  W.    Prophesie  of  Cadwallader. 

1604.     V.  Appendi.v. 
Harbie,  T.     Arminian  Priests'  petition. 

1642. 
Harding,  J.     Chronicle.     1543. 
Harington,  J.     Epigrams.     1615. 
Harington,  J.     Polindor  and  Flostella. 

1651. 
Hastings,  H.,  Lord.    Lachrj-mas  Musa- 

rum.     1649. 
Hawes,  S.     Exempel  of  Vertue.     1530. 
„  Conversyon     of     Swerers. 

[1540.] 
Hawes,  S.     Conversyon     of     Swerers. 

1854. 
Hawkshaw,  B.     Poems.     1693. 
Heath,  Jas.    Elegie  on  T.  Fuller.    1661. 
Heath,  Joh.     Epigrams.     1610. 
Heath,  R.     Clarastella.     1650. 
Henry,  Prince.    Gt.  Britain's  Mourning 

Garments.     1612. 
Hepwith,J.  The Calidonian  Forest.  1641. 
Herbert,  G.     The  Temple.     \ji.  d^ 

„  „  1633- 

„  „  1844. 

Herbert,  T.  Secunda  Vox  populi.   1641. 

Herrick,  R.     Hesperides.     1648. 
„  1823. 

Hesiod.  Georgicks.  By  Chapman.  1618. 

Heywood,  J.     Spider  and  Flie.     1556. 
„  Workes.     1577. 

»  »  1587- 

„  „  1598- 

Heywood,  T.     Troia  Britanica.     1609. 
„  Hierarchie  of  the  Angels. 

1635- 
Heywood,  T.  Pleasant  Dialogues.  1637. 
Hickes,  W.     London  Drollery.     1673. 
„  Grammatical       Drollery. 

1682. 
Hoddesdon,  J.     Sion   and   Parnassus. 

1650. 


Poetry,  English — continued. 
Holland,  A.  Hollandi  Posthuma.   1626. 
Holme,  W.     Fall  of  Rebellion.     [«.  </.] 
Holyday,  B.   Survey  of  the  World.   1661. 
Homer's  Iliad  translated  by  Chapman. 

\n.  d.1 
Homer's  Iliad  translated  by  Chapman. 

[«.  d.-\ 
Homer's  whole  worksby  Chapman.  [«.«'.] 
„      Iliadand  Odyssey  by  T.Hobbes. 

1686. 
Homer's  Ten  Books  of  the  Iliads  by  A. 

Hall.     1581. 
Homer.       Batrachomyomachia    trans- 
lated by  Fowldes.     1603. 
Homer.      Batrachomyomachia    transl. 

by  Chapman.     [1613.] 
Hooke,  N.     Amanda.     1653. 
Horace,  his  art  of  Poetry,  by  Drant. 

1567. 
Horace,  his  art  of  Poetry,  by  B.  Jonson. 

1640. 
Hornby,  W.     Scourge  of  Drunkenness. 

1618. 
Howard,  Sir  R.     Poems.     1660. 
Howell,  Jas.     Poems.     1663. 
Hubert,  F.     Egypt's  Favourite.     1631. 
Hynde,  S.     Iter  Lusitanicum.     1662. 
Ireland,  T.     Verses  spoken  at  0.\ford. 

1663. 
James  I.     Poetical  Exercises.     1591. 
Johnson,  J.    Description  of  Love.  1629. 
,,  ,,  »         1638. 

Johnson,  R.     Crown  Garland.     1662. 
„  „  «  16S3. 

Jonson,  B.     Jonsonus  Virbius.     1638. 
Jordan,  T.     Poeticall  Varieties.     1637. 
„  Pictures  of  Passions.  [«.  ^.] 

„  Wit  in  a  Wildernesse.  [n.  d.l 

Juvenal's  Satires  by  Stapylton.     1647. 
K.,  P.     Flosculum  Poeticum.      1684. 
Reach,  E.     Banqueting  House.     1696. 
Keats,  J.     Poems.     1817. 
„  Endymion.     18 18. 

„  Lamia.     1820. 

Kempe,  W.     Dutiful  Invective.     1587. 
Kempster,  B.     Batt  upon  Batt.     1680. 
Kennedy,  J.   The  Ladies' delight.  1631. 
Killigrew,  Anne.     Poems.     1664. 
Killigrcw,W.  ArtlessMidnightThoughts. 

1684. 
Killigrew,W.  Midnight  Thoughts.  1694. 


INDEX. 


1797 


Poetry,  English— ro«//«?/^rtr. 
King,  H.     Poems.     1657. 
„  Elegies.     1664. 

King,  Humphrey.     Halfpenny  worth  of 

Wit.     161 3. 
Kyfifin,M.  Blessednes  of  Britaine.  i58cS. 
Ladies  Delight.     1741. 
Langland,  W.     Piers  Plowman.     1553. 
,.  u  ;,  iS^J'- 

»  ,,  ,,  1842. 

Lanyer,  jt.  Salve  Deus  Rex  Judasorum. 

1611. 
Lawrence,   L.      Arnalte  and  Lucenda. 

1639- 

Legendas  Catholicre.     1840. 

Leighton,  Sir  W.     Virtue  Triumphant. 
1603. 

Lenton,  F.    Young  Gallant's  Whirligig. 
1629. 

Lenton,  F.     Inns  of  Court  Anagram- 
matist.     1634. 

Lenton,   F.     Great  Britain's  Beauties. 
1638. 

Lenton,  F.     Queen  Esther.     1637. 

Leo,  B.     Pious  Instructions.     1693. 

Lever,  C.    Q.  Elizabeth's  Teares.  1607. 

Licia,  or  Poems  of  Love.     [1593] 

Lisle,  W.    The  Faire  yEthiopian.  1631. 

Lithgow,W.  Scotland's  Welcome.  1633. 
„  Gushing  Teares.     1640. 

Llewellyn,  M.     Men  Miracles.     1656. 
„  Elegy  on   D.  of  Glou- 

cester.    1660. 

Lloyd,  D.  Legend  of  Capt.  Jones.  1659. 

Lok,  H.     Ecclesiastes.     1597. 

Looking  Glass  of  the  World.     1644. 

Loredano's  Ascents  of  the  Soul.     1681. 

Lovelace,  R.     Lucasta.     1649. 

Lowick,  T.  History  of  S.  George.  1664. 

Lucan's  Pharsalia.     1614. 

Lydgate,  J.     History  of  Troy.     1513. 

,,  »  1555- 

„  >,  ,)  1614. 

„  Churle  and  Byrde.  [1555.] 

Lyndsay,  Sir  D.     Workes.     1628. 
„  Papingo.     1558. 

„  William      Meldrum. 

1594. 
Lyndsay,  Sir  D.    Dialogue.     1575. 
„  „  1581. 

M.,  G.    The  Citizen's  complaint.    1663. 
M.,  S.  The  Heavenly  Messenger.  1687. 

10 


PdKTRV,  English— (ro«//«?<?(/. 

Machiavel's  Ghost.     1641. 

Marthant,  J.     Puerilia.     1751. 

Margaret,  St.     Lyfe  of.    [/ii^y«/ 1530.] 

Marlowe,  C.   Hero  and  Leander.  1629. 
>>  ))  „  1637. 

Marmion,  Sh.  Cupid  and  Psyche.  1637. 

Marshall,  Geo.     Original  of  Sacrifice. 
'554. 

Mar5ton's,J.  Scourge  of  Villanie.  1598. 

Martial's  Epigrams.     1656. 

„  Selected  Epigrams.     1629. 

Martyn,  Jos.     New  Epigrams.     1621. 

Marvell,  A.     Poems.     1681. 

Maxwell,   J.      Life  of  Prince    Henry. 
1612. 

Maxwell,  J.     Carolanna.     1619. 

May,  E.     Epigrams.     1633. 

May,  Tho.     Reigne  of  Henry  II.  1633. 
„  Reigne  of  Edw.  III.   1635. 

Mayhe\v,T.  Return  of  CharlesII.   1660. 

Melvill,  E.     A  Godly  Dream.     1698. 

Mennis  and  Smith.    Musarum  Delicis. 
1656. 

Mercer,  W.  Anglia  Speculum  :  or  Eng- 
land's looking  Glasse.     1646. 

Mercer,  W.    A  Welcome  to  Lord  Truro. 
1669. 

Mercer,  W.     The  Moderate  Cavalier. 
1675. 

Merchant's  Daughter.    [1600.]    A  Bal- 
lad. 

Mercurius  Lepidus.     1652. 

Meriton,  C.     Pecunis  obediunt  omnia. 
1698. 

Merry  Jest  of  a  Shrew.     15S0. 

Middleton,    C.      Legend  of   Humfrey, 
D.  of  Gloucester.     1600. 

Middleton,   T.     Wisdom   of  Solomon. 

1597- 
Mill,  H.     Poems.     1639. 

„  A  Night's  Search.     1640. 

„  „  „         second  pt. 

1646. 
Milton,  J.     Poetical  Works.     1760.     2 

vols. 
Milton,  J.     Poetical  Works.     1801.     7 

vols. 
Milton,  J.     Comus.     1637. 
„  Lycidas.     1638. 

„  Poems.     1645. 

1673- 
K 


1798 


INDEX. 


Poetry,  English — continued. 

Milton,  J.     Paradise  Lost     1667. 
»        '668. 
,.        1678. 
»        1667.    Re- 
printed 1873. 
Milton,  J.     Paradise  Regained.     1671. 

1680. 
Minot,  L.     Poems.     1795. 
Mirrour  for  Magistrates.     1559. 
1563- 
1571- 
'574- 
„        „  „  Firstpt.iS7S. 

„  „  Second  part. 

1578. 
Mirrour  for  Magistrates.     15S7. 
1 6 10. 
Miscellanies  over  Claret.     1697. 
Moffat,  T.     Silkworms  and  their  flies. 

1599- 
Montgomery,  A.   The  Cherrie  and  Slae. 

1698. 
Montgomer)',  A.   The  Cherrie  and  Slae. 

1700. 
Muggletonians.     Divine  Songs.     1829. 
Munday,  A.     Banquet  of  Daintie  Con- 
ceits.    1588. 
Musasus.     Hero  and  Leander.     1647. 
Muses  Farewell  to  Popery.     1690. 
Musophilus.     1694. 
N.,  W.     Barley  Breake.     1607. 
New  Wife  of  Bath.     1700. 
Newcastle,  Duchess  of.     Nature's  pic- 
tures.    1656. 
Newman,  A.     Pleasure's  Vision.    1619. 
Newton,  T.   The  Death  of  Delia.  1603. 
Niccols,  R.     The  Cuckow.     1607. 

„  Sir  T.  Overburie's  Vision. 

1616. 
Niccols,  R.  Three  Sisters  Teares.  1613. 
Nicolas,  H.     Conioedia.    [1570.] 
Nug£e  PoeticJE.     1844. 
Orrery,  E.  of.     Poems.     1681. 
Overbury,  Sir  T.     A  Wife.     1614. 

•622. 
J628. 
„  „         Remedy    of    Love. 

1620. 
Ovid's  Metamorphoses.     1575. 

1626.  \.AJ>p. 
,,  '632- 


Poetry,  English — continued. 
Ovid's  Elegies.     [«.  ^.] 
P.,  J.     Select  Poems.     1661. 
Palingenius,  M.   Zodiake  of  Life. 


I56r. 


Parker,  M.     The  Nightingale.     1632. 
„  The    Poet's   blind   man's 

bough.     1 64 1. 
Parker,  M.     The  King  and  Poor  Nor- 
thern man.     1 573. 
Parliament.     The  Parliaments  Litanie. 

1647. 
Parnassus  Biceps.     1656. 
Parrott,  H.     Epigrams.     1608. 

„  Laquei  Ridiculosi.     1613. 

„  The  Mastive.     1615. 

Pasquine's  Recantation.     1570. 
Peacham,  H.   Minerva  Britanna.    1612. 
„  Period  of  mourning.  161 3. 

Pecke,  T.    Parnassi  Puerperium.    1659. 
Pembroke,  Wm.,  E.  of.    Poems.    1660. 
Percy,  W.     Sonnets.     1594. 
Peregrine.     The  Valiant  Knight.  1663. 
Perrott,  J.     Sea  of  Suffering.    i65i.    v. 

Appendi.x: 
Pet  owe,  H.     Eliza's  Funeral.     1603. 
Petrarch,  F.     Triumphs  of  Love.   1644. 
Petronylla.     [«.  </.] 

Peyton,  T.   The  Glasse  of  Time.    1620. 
Philipott,  T.     Poems.     1646. 
Philips,  K.     Poems.     1664. 
Phillip,  J.     A  Friendly  Larum.   [1570.] 
Phillips,  J.     Satyr  against  Hypocrites. 

■655. 

Phillis  and  Flora.     1598. 

Phoenix  Nest.     1593. 

Pick,  S.     Festum  Voluptatis.     1639. 

Pierce,  T.      KapoX*  nnXij'yfv^ffia.     1649. 

Pills  to  purge  State-Melancholy.    1715. 

PUinket,  T.     Character  of  a  good  com- 
mander.    1689. 

Pluto  Furens.     1669. 

Poems  on  divers  occasions.     1667. 

Poems  against  popery.     1689. 

Poetical  and  prose  Miscellany.     MS. 

Poetry,  Fugitive.     MS. 

Preparative  to  Study.     1641. 

Pricket,  R.  The  Jesuit's  Miracles.   1607. 

Primrose,  D.    A  chain  of  Pearle.   1630. 

Prince  d' Amour.     1660. 

Prior,  M.     Works.     1776. 

Prynne,  W.     Mont-Orgueil.     164 1. 


INDEX. 


1799 


Poetry,  'Em^m^— continued. 
Psalter  in  Metre.     1530. 

>,  ,.  1549- 

['575] 

..         >,       t'sgs.] 

„  „  By  Sir  P.  Sidney.  MS. 

»  ji  »               1823. 

„  „  1605. 

„  „  1621. 

„  „  1625. 

»  »  1631. 

,.  ,.  1635- 

..  ,.  1643- 

„  „  By  Z.  Boyd.     1648. 

„  „  By  Bp.  King.    1641. 

„  „  lyco. 

,.  „  1704- 

„  „  Boston.     17 1 8. 

„  „  Boston.     1758. 

„  „  Boston.     1773. 

„  „  By  G.Sandys.   1636. 

„  „  „  1648. 

Quarles,  F.     Feast  for  Wormes.    1620. 
„  Hadassa.     1621. 

„  Sion's  Elegies.     1624. 

„  Job  Militant.     1624. 

„  Sion's  Sonets.     1625. 

„  Divine  Fancies.     1630. 

»  „  1641. 

„  Emblems.     1635. 

»  ,.  1639- 

„  Elegie  on   Sir  J.    Cffisar. 

1636. 
„  Divine  Poems.     1638. 

„  Sighs,  &c.    1640. 

„  Shepherds  Oracle.     1644. 

Quarles,  J.    Fons  Lachrynnarum.  1649 
„  Regale   Lectum    Miseriae. 

1649. 
Quest  of  Inquiry.     1595. 
Ramsay,  A.     The  Evergreen.    1724. 
Randolph,  T.     Works.     1875. 
„  Poems.     1638. 

„  „  1652. 

RaynoldSjG.  Dolarnys  Primerose.  1608. 
Richard  Cceur-du-Lion.     1528. 
Richards,  N.     The  Celestiall  Publican. 

1630. 
Richards,  N.     Poems.     1632. 
„  „  1641. 

Ripley,  Geo.    Compound  of  Alchymey. 
1591. 


Poetry,  English — continued. 
Ritson,  J.    Various  Works.    1791-1833. 
Robin  Hood,  A  merry  Jest  of.     [1594.] 
Robin  Hood's  Garland.     1689. 
'7«9- 
1792- 
„  „  True   tale  of. 

[«.  d:\ 

Robinson,  R.     Reward  of  Wickedness. 

L'576.J 
Rowlands,  S.      The   Knave  of   Clubs. 

1609. 
Rowlands,   S.      Memoi-y   of    Miracles. 

1618. 
Rowlands,  S.    Well  met  Gossip.    1627. 
„  The  Night  Raven.  1634. 

„  Guy  of  Warwick.     1667. 

Roy,  W.    Rede  me,  &c.     1526. 

»  ,,  i«45- 

Rump  Songs.     1662. 
Russell,  J.     Two  famous  pitcht  battels. 

1634- 
Rythmes  agst.  M.  Mar-Prelate.    [15SS.] 
S.,  R.     The  Counter  Scuffle.     1651. 
),  „  ,1  1667. 

S.,  W.    Answer  to  the  Rebels.     1569. 
Seneca.     His  tenne  Tragedies.     1581. 
„  Thyestes.     1 560. 

„  Troas.     [1560.] 

„  CEdipus.     1563. 

„  Medea.     1 566. 

„  1648. 

„  Octavia.     1566. 

„  Answer  to  Lucilius.     164S. 

„  Hippolitus.     1651. 

Shakespeare,  W.  Venus  and  Adonis.  1 594. 
„  Lucrece.     1 594. 

„  Sonnets.     1609. 

„  Poems.     1640. 

Shelley,  P.  B.   Queen  Mab.     1S13. 
„  Alastor.     18 16. 

„  Laon  and  Cythna.  1818. 

„  Revolt  of  Islam.     1S18. 

„         Rosalind  and  Helen.   1819. 
„  PrometheusUnbound.  1S20. 

„  Adonais.     1821. 

„  Hellas.     1822. 

„  Masque  of  Anarchy.   1832. 

'  „  Posthumous  Poems.    1844. 

Shepherd,  T.     Spiritual  Songs.     1735. 
Sheppard,    S.      The  times    displayed. 
1646. 


iSoo 


INDEX. 


Poetry,  English— f(9«//«7(f^^. 
Sheppard,  S.  Loves  of  Amandus.  1650. 
Shirley,  J.     Poems.     1646. 
Sidney,  P.    Astrophel  and  Stella,   isgi- 
Skelton,  J.     Works.     1736. 

„  Certaine  bokes.     [1550.] 

„  Colyn  Clout.    [1550.] 

»  ..  [1560.] 

„  Why  come  ye  not  to  court. 

[1550.] 
Skelton,  J.    Why  come  ye  not  to  court. 

[1560.] 
Skelton,  J.    Philip  Sparowe.     [1550.] 
..  »  [1560.] 

„  Merie  Tales.     [1567.] 

„  Elynour  Rummin.     1624. 

Slatyer,  W.     Hist,  of  Gt.  Brit.     [1621.] 
Smith,  J.  S.     English  Songs.     1779. 
Smith,  W.  Jests  of  Widow  Edith.  1573. 
Smith,  Wm.     Chloris.     1596. 
Southwell,R.  St.Peter'scomplaints.1595. 
»  ,,  „     [1609.] 

>j  »  »        1615. 

n  ,.  „         1636. 

„  Moeonias.     1595. 

Speed,  S.     Fragmenta  Carceris.    1674. 

))  »  »  1675- 

Speght,  R.     Mouzell  for   Melastomus. 

1617. 
Speght,  R.     Mortalities  Memorandum. 

1621. 
Spenser,  E.     Works.     1805. 

„  Shepheardes'  Calendar. 

1579- 
Spenser,  E.     Shepheardes'  Calendar. 

1581. 
Spenser,  E.    Faerie  Queene.    1590-96. 

„  „  1609. 

»  ,1  1611. 

„  Complaints.     1591. 

„  Amoretti.    1595. 

„  Prothalamion.     1596. 

„  Colin  Clout.     1595. 

„  Fowre  Hymnes.     1596. 

„  Brittains  Ida.     1628. 

Stanhope,  J.     Funeral  Elegies.     1624. 
Stanley,  T.     Poems.     1647. 

„  „  1650. 

„  „  1651. 

„         Psalterium  Carolinum.  1657. 
Stephenson,  M.     Poems.     1O62. 


Poetry,  English — continued. 

Stile,  C.     Psalms  of  invocation.     1 588. 
Stipendaris  Lachrymas.     1654. 
Stirling,  W.    Recreations  of  the  Muses. 

1637. 
Stirling,  W.    Aurora.     1604. 

„  Paranesis  to   the  Prince. 

1604. 
Stirry,  T.     Rot  among   the    Bishops. 

1641. 
Suckling,  J.     Fragmenta  Aurea.    1646. 

Works.     1874. 
Suffolk's  Tears.     1653. 
Surrey,   Earl  of.     Songes  and  Sonets. 

1587. 
Sylvester,  J.     Automachia.     1607. 

„  Lachrimce  Lachrimarum. 

1612. 
Sylvester,  J.     Parliament    of     vertues 

Royal.     [1614.] 
Sylvester,  J.     St.  Lewis,  &c.     1615. 
„  Panthea,  or  divine  wishes. 

1630. 
S)Tns,  C.     Gt.  Britain's  Al-Arm.    1647. 
Symson,  A.     Tripatriarchichon.     1705. 
Tailour,  R.     Sacred  Hymns.     161 5. 
Tasso,  T.    Godfrey  of  Bulloigne.    i5oo. 

'594. 
Tatham,J.  The  Fancies  Theater.  1640. 
Taylor,  J.     Works.     1630. 

„  The  Sculler.     1612. 

„  The    Nipping    of   Abuses. 

1614. 
Taylor,  J.     The  Pennyles  Pilgrimage. 

1618. 
Taylor,  J.     An  Englishman's  love   to 

Bohemia.     1620. 
Taylor,  J.     Superbse  Flagellum.    1621. 
„  SirGregory  Nonsence.  1622. 

Taylor,  J.     Memorial    of    all    English 

Monarchies.     1630. 
Taylor,  J.     An  arrant  Thiefe.     1635. 
„  Differing  Worships.     1640. 

„  A  swarme  of  sectaries.  1641. 

„  A  reply  as  true  as  Steele. 

1641. 
Taylor,  J.     Mad  Fashions.     1642. 

„  Heads  of  all  fashions.  1642. 

„  Aqua-Muss.     1645. 

Thomson's  Seasons.     1746. 
Thorius,  R.     Hymnus  Tabaci.     1651. 
Tooke,  G.    Belides,  &c.     1660. 


INDEX. 


1801 


Poetry,  English — continued. 
Trumbull,  J.     McFingall.     1782. 
Uncasing  of  Machiavel.     1613. 
Unfortunate  Jack.     [1675.] 
Urquhart,  T.     Epigrams.     1646. 
Vade  Mecum  for  Maltworms.     [1720.] 

„  „  „     2nd  ed.  [1720.] 

Vaughan,  H.     Silex  Scintillans.     1650. 

„  Olor  Iscanus.     1651. 

Verstegan,  R.     Odes.     1601. 
Vicars,  J.     Mischiefs  Mysterie.     1617. 
„  Babel's  Balnie.     1624. 

„  England's    Remembrancer. 

1641. 
Virgil's  i4£neid,  by  T.  Phaer.     1562. 

)i  I)  »  15^4- 

„  „      by  Stanihurst.     1583. 

„  „      by    Vicars.      1632.      v. 

Appendix. 
Virgil's  Bucolicks,  by  Fleming.     1589. 
„     Georgics  by  May.     1628. 
„     Epigrams.     1624. 
W.,  E.     Thameseidos.     1600. 
Walden,  R.    lo  Ruminans.     1662. 
„  Panaletha.     1662. 

„  Parnassus  Aboriens.   1664. 

Wallace,  Sir  W.     Life.     1618. 
Waller,  E.    Poems.     1645. 
.,  „         1645- 

»  »         1711- 

»  ,,         1712- 

„  To  the  King.     1660. 

„  Poem  on   S.  James  Park. 

1661. 
Waller,  E.     Instructions  to  a  Painter. 

1666. 
Wallin,  B.     Hymns.     1762. 
Ward,  J.     Madrigals.     1613. 
Warly,  J.     English  Iliads.     1674. 
Warner,  W.    Albion's  England.     1 589. 
»  „  „  1612. 

„  „      continued.    1606. 

Warren,  A.     The  poor  man's  passions. 

1605. 
Warren,  W.    Nurcerie  of  names.    1581. 
Washbourne,  T.     Poems.     1654. 
Wastel,  S.     Christian's  delight.     1623. 
Wates,  R.     Dialogue.     1679. 
Watkyns,  R.    Flamma  sine  fumo.  1662. 
Watson,   T.      Passionate    centurie    of 

love.     1582. 
Watson,  T.    Madrigalls.     1 590. 


Poetry,  English — continued. 
Watts,  I.     Divine  Songs.     1810. 

„  Psalms  of  David.     1719. 

Weaver,  T.  Plantagenet's  tragical  story. 

1649. 
Weaver,  T.     Songs,  &c.     1654, 
Weever,  J.     Mirror  of  Martyrs.     1601. 

„  An  Agnus  Dei.     1606. 

Wesley,  S.     Maggots.     1685. 
Westminster  Quibbles.     1672. 
Westmoreland,  E.  of.   Otia  sacra.    1648. 
Wheeler,  W.     Spiritual  portion.     1670. 
Wigglesworth,  M.      The  day  of  Doom. 

1673. 
Wild,  R.     Iter  Boreale.     i66r. 
»  1,  „  1668. 

„  Poem  on  Calumny.     [1660.] 

Willis,  H.   Time's  Whirligig.     1647. 

„  England's  Changeling.  1659. 

Willoughby,  H.     Avisa.     1594. 
Wingar,  H.    Light  extinguished.  [1680.] 
Winter  dreame.     1649. 
Wishartt,  W.     Immanuel.     1642. 
Wit  restored.     1658. 
Wit  and  Drollery.     1661. 
Wit  and  Drollery.     1682. 
Wit's  Academy.     1701. 
Wit's  Recreations.     1640. 
„  „  1667. 

Wither,  Geo.     47  different  works  and 

editions.     1613-1688. 
Wolcott,  R.   Poetical  Mediations.   1725. 
Woodford,    S.       Paraphrase    on     the 

Psalms.     1667. 
Wortley,  F.     Dutie  of  Sir  F.  Wortley. 

1641. 
Wright,  L.     Spiritual  Songs.     [1790.] 
Wyrley,  W.  True  use  of  Armory.   1592. 
Wyvill,  C.     Certaine  serious  thoughts. 

1647. 
Zouche,  R.     The  Dove.     1613. 
Pole,  Cardinal,    v.  Phillips. 
POLIMANTEIA.     v.   Clarke. 
POLIPHILO.     v.  Columna. 
Politician's  Catechism,    v.  Talbot. 
Portraits. 

Beza,  T.    I  cones.     1580. 

Birch,  T.    Heads  of  Illustrious  persons. 

1743-51- 
Boissard,  J.  J.      Icones  virorum  illus- 

trium.     1597-9. 
Custos,  D.     Atrium  Heroicum.     1600. 


l802 


INDEX. 


Portraits— con/intud. 

Custos,   D.     Clariss.  virorum  Effigies. 

1605. 
Effigies  Regum  Anglorum.     [1620.] 
Fuggerorum  et  Fuggerarum  Imagines. 

1593- 
Fuggerorum  et  Fuggerarum  Imagines. 

1618. 
Fuller's,  F.     Holy  and  Profane  state. 

1642. 
Hoffman,   T.      Portraits    Historiques. 

1746. 
Holbein,  H.     Portraits  of  the  Court  of 

Henry  VIII.     1792. 
Holland,  H.  Herwologia  Anglica.  1620. 
Kit-Cat  Club.     1735. 
L'Armessin,  N.  de.     Roys  de  France. 

1679. 
Lodge's  Portraits  of  Illustrious  Persons. 

1821-34. 
Passe,  C.de.  Effigies  Regum,  lic.  [159S.] 
„  Regiae  Angl.  Maj.  pictura. 

1613. 
Perrault,  C.     Hommes  Illustres.    1696. 
Portraits   de    la    Famille     Royale    de 

France.     1695. 
Reusner,  C.     Contrafacturbuch.     1587. 
Reusner,  N.     Icones.     1587. 
Rustolf,  J.     Elegidia.     1631. 
Sambucus,  J.     Icones.     1574. 
Vaughan,  R.  Portr.  of  9  Worthies.  1622. 
Vosmer,  M.  Principes  Hollandias.  1578. 
Wood,  L.     Floras  Anglicus.     1657. 
Portugal,  History  of 

Anthony,  K.  of  Portugal.     1585. 
Emanuel,  K.  of  Portugal.     Obedientia. 

['505-] 
Emanuel,  K.  of  Portugal.     Obedientia. 

[1514-] 
Emanuel,    K.   of  Portugal.      Epistola. 

[■513.] 
Emanuel,    K.   of  Portugal.     Epistola. 

[•5<3-] 
Emanuel,    K.   of  Portugal.     Epistola. 

[s.a.] 
Emanuel,    K.   of  Portugal.     Epistola. 

[s.  a.] 
Portuguese  Books. 
Alvarez,  F.     Ho  Preste  Joam.     1540. 
Amaral,  M.  E.  do.     Tratado  das  batal- 

has.     1604. 
Cruz,  Caspar  da.     Tractado.     1 570. 


Portuguese  Uoovis— continued. 

Faria,  M.  G.  de.  Discursos  varios.  1624. 
Galvano,  A.  Tratado  dos  Descobrimen- 

tos.     1731. 
Godinho,  M.  Relagao  do  novo  caminho. 

1665. 
Gouvea,  A  de.     lornada  do  Arcebispo 

de  Goa.     1605. 
Nantes,  B.  de.  Katecismo  Indico.  1709. 
Rolland,  F.     Adagios,  &c.     1780. 
Santa  Rosa.     Elucidario  das  palavras, 

&c.     1798. 
Tellez,  B.    Historia  de  Ethiopia.     1660. 
V.  Appendix. 
Prester  John.     v.  Alvarez,     v.  David 

/Ethiopia:  Rex. 
Printers.      Books    by    English    typo- 
graphers of  the  15th  and  i6th  centuries. 
Allde,  E. 

Baldwin,  W.    Beware  the  Cat.   1 584, 
C,  T.    An  hospitall  for  the  diseased. 

1598.     V.  Appendix: 
Daniel,  S.     Delia.     1594. 
F.,  T.    N ewes  from  the  North.   1585. 
Harrington,  R.    Famous  dittie.  1584. 
Mirror  of  Princely  Deeds.  6th  Book. 

1598. 
Peele,  Geo.    Battle  of  Alcazar.    1 594. 
Sackville,  T.   Tragedie  of  Gorboduc. 

1590. 
Sansovino,  F.     Quintessence  of  Wit. 
1590. 
Allde,  J. 

B.,  H.     Childe  with  ruffes.     1566. 
F.,  W.  Shape  of  two  monsters.  [  1 565.] 
„        Anew  ballad  against  unthrifts. 

['565.] 
Heywood,J.  Ballad  of  Slander,  [n.d.'] 

I.,  A.     A  godly  Ballad.     1560. 
Munday,  A.     Mirror  of  Mutabilitie. 

1579- 
Andrewe,  L. 

Brunswick,  Jerome.     1527. 

Mirror  of  the  World.     [1510.] 
Arbuthnot,  a. 

Bible.     Edinburgh.     1576. 
AsKEL,  Leonard. 

D.,  John.     Monstrous  Child.     1562. 

Pestilence,  Sermon  on.     [1566.] 
AwDELEY,  John. 

Awdeley,  J.     Wonders  of  England. 
1559- 


INDEX. 


1803 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  1 5th  &  1 6th  cents. — conl. 
AwDELEY,  John. 

Awdeley,  J.     Godly  ditty.     1570. 

Monstrous  Child.    Broadside.    [«.  d?[ 
Bale,  John. 

Leland,  J.     England's  Antiq.     1549. 
Ballard,  H. 

Bossewell,  J.     Workes   of  Armorie. 
1 597.     V.  Appendix. 
Banks,  R. 

Epistles  and  Gospels.     [«.  </.] 
Barker,  C. 

Bible.     1577. 

1599- 
„         V.  Bible  in  Welsh.     1588. 
Campion,  E.  Disputation  with.  1583. 
„  Declaration  of.      1582. 

Declaration    of    Seminarie    priests. 

1585. 
Rich,  B.     Alarm  to  England.    1578. 
Sutcliffe,  M.     Laws  of  Arms.     1593. 
Barker,  R. 

Hakluyt,  R.     Voyages.     1598. 
Bassandyne,  T. 

Bible.     Edinb.     1576. 
Berthelet,  T. 

Cooper's  Chronicle.     1560. 

Cope,  A.  Hannibal  and  Scipio.   1544. 

Elyot,  Sir  T.  Of  that  knowledge,  &c. 

1534. 
Elyot,  Sir  T.  Castle  of  Health.   1541. 
„         ,,  Preservative       against 

death.     1545. 
Erasmus.    Praise  of  Folly.     1549. 

„  Prepara.  to  Death.  1543. 

Fitzherbert,  J.     Surveying.     1539. 

„  Book  of  Husbandry. 

1548. 
Fo.x,  E.     De  vera  differentia.     1538. 
FuUonius,  Gul.     Comedy  of  Acolas- 

tus.     1 540. 
Gower,  J.   Confessio  Amantis.   1532. 
Henry  VIII.     Glasse  of  the  Truth. 

[1530.] 
Henry  VIII.  Determinations  of  Uni- 
versities.    1 531. 
Henry  VIII.     De  Concilio  MantuK. 

IS37- 
Institution  of  a  Christian  Man.  1537. 
Lupset,  T.     Workes.     1546. 

„  Of  dyenge  well.     1541. 


Printers.      Books    by    English     typo- 
graphers of  the  1 5th  &  1 6th  cents.— <;<;«/. 

BERTHELEr,  T. 

Morison,  R.     Invective  against  trea- 
son.    1539. 

Necessary  Doctrine.     1543. 

„  „  Pia  et  Catlio- 

lica  Institutio.     1544. 

Regimen  Sanitatis  Salerni.     1541. 

Remedy  for  Sedition.     1536. 

Saint-German.   Spiritualtie  and Tcm- 
poraltie.     [ii.  d^ 

Sallust.  Cataline's  Conspiracy.   1541. 

Tales  and  (2uicke  answers.    [1549.] 

Thomas,  W.  Historic  of  Italic.  1549. 
„  Italian  Grammar.    1550. 

Tunstal,  Bp.     Sermon.     1539. 

Udall,  N.     Floures  for  Latin.     1533. 

Vives,  L.     Introduction  to  Wisdom. 
1540. 

Withals,  J.   Shorte  Dictionaric.   1553. 
Bishop,  G. 

Hakluyt,  R.     Voyages.     1589. 

.,  „  1598. 

Bollifant,  E. 

Smith,  W.     Chloris.     1596. 

BONHAM,  W. 

Fabyan,  R.     Chronicle.     1542. 
BouRMAN,  Nicholas. 

Dewes,     G.      An     introductorie    to 
French.     [1540.] 
Bradocke,  R. 

Bastard,  R.     Chrestoleros.     1598. 

Breton.  N.  Melanchol.  humours.  1600. 
Bradwood,  M. 

Tooker,  W.   Fabrique  of  the  Church. 
1597- 

BURBV,  C. 

Bankes.     Maroccus  Extaticus.    1595. 
Busby,  J. 

Lodge,  T.     Rosalynde.     1592. 
Butler,  J. 

Havves,  S.  The  conversion  of  swerers. 

[1540.] 
Amadis  of  Gaul.     1567. 
Cartier,  J.     Two  Navigations.    1580. 
Desainliens,    C.     Treasurie    of   the 

French  tongue.     1580. 
Fenton,  E.    Certaine  secret  wonders. 

1569. 
Garter,  B.  Joyful  receiving  of  Q.  Eliz. 

1578. 


i8o4 


INDEX. 


Printers.      Books    by    English    tj-po- 
graphers  of  the  15th  &  i6th  cents. — co)it. 
Butler,  J. 
Gascoigne,    G.      Hundreth    sundrie 

flowers.      [1573.] 
Gascoigne,  G.  PosiesofG.  Gascoigne. 

1575- 
Gascoigne, G.  The  Steele  Glas.  [1576.] 
Gomara,  F.  Conquest  of  West  India. 

1578. 
Grange,  J.     The  Golden  Aphroditis. 

1577. 
Holme,  W.  Fall  of  Rebellion.   [;;.«'.] 
Lupton,  T.     Sivqilia.     1587. 

„  „  Part  2.     1581. 

„  Persuasion  from  Papis- 

trie.     1581. 
Mantuan,  B.     Eglogs.     1567. 
Norton,  T.    To  the  Queen's  subjects. 

1569. 
Norton,  T.     To  the  Queen's  subjects. 

2nd  ed.     1569. 
Painter,  W.  Palace  of  Pleasure.  1575. 
Spenser,  E.     Three  Letters.     1580. 
Thevet,   A.     The  new  found  World. 

1568. 
Turbervile,  G.     Book  of  Faulconrie. 

1575- 

Virgil.    Eneid,  by  Stanihurst.    1583. 

Von  der  Noodt,  J.  Theatre  of  World- 
lings.    1569. 
Cadman,  T. 

Lyly,  J.     Campaspe.     1584. 
Calv,  R. 

Catonis  Disticha.     1555. 

Interrogatories.     1558. 

Martin,  T.  Marriage  of  Priests.  1554. 

Proctor,  J.     History   of  Wyat's  Re- 
beUion.     1554. 

Watson,  T.  Holsome  Doctrine.  1558. 
Cawood.  J. 

Boethius.     De  consolatione  philoso- 
phia;.     1556. 

Bonner.     Profitable  Doctrine.     1555. 

Brant,  S.     Stultifera  Navis.     1570. 

Christoferson,  J.    Exhortation.    1554. 

Homilies.     1563. 

Marshall,  G.  Orig.  of  Sacrifice.   1554. 

More,  Sir  T.     Works.     1557. 

Sepulveda,   J.      De   ritu  nuptiarum. 

1553- 
Watson,  T.     Two  Sermons.     1554. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  15th  &  1 6th  cents. — cont. 
Caxton,  W. 

Bonaventure.     Life  of  Christ.     [«.  </•] 

Cessolis.    Book  of  the  Chess.    [1481.] 

Chastising  of  God's  Children.     [«.  dl\ 

Christine  de  Pisan.     [1489.] 

Cicero,  of  Old  Age.     14S1. 

Dictes  and  Sayings,     v.  Appendix. 

Doctrinal  of  Sapience.     1489. 

Gower,  J.    Confessio  Amantis.    1483. 

Mirror  of  the  World.     [1490.] 

Royal  Book.     \n.  d.\ 

Virgil.     Eneydos.     1490. 

Voragine,  J.  de.  Golden  Legend.  1493. 
Charlewood,  J. 

Crompton,  H.  Declaration  of  Tray- 
tors.     1587. 

Daniel,  S.     Delia.     1592. 

Markham,  G.    Horsemanship.    1593. 

Munday,  A.  English  Roman  life. 
1582. 

Munday,  A.  Banquet  of  Daintie  con- 
ceits.    1588. 

Northampton,   E.   of      Defensative. 

1583. 
Palmendos,  Historic  of     1589. 
Rankins,  W.  A  Mirrour  of  Monsters. 

1587. 
Tedder  and  Tyrrell.     Recantations. 
1588. 
Charteris,  H.     Edinburgh. 

Lyndsay,  D.  William  Mcldrum.  1594. 
Chettle,  H. 

Smith,  H.  A  fruitfull  sermon.  1591. 
COLWELL,  T. 

Barker,  J.     Plagues,  &c.     [1570.] 
Elderton,  W.    A  Ballad,  &c.    [1570-] 
„  A  proper  New  Ballad. 

[1570.] 
Googe,  B.     Eglogs,  &c.     1563. 
Rhodes,  H.    Boke  of  Nurtur.    [«.  f/.] 
Seneca.     Qidipus.     1563. 
„  Medea.     1 566. 

Skelton,  J.     Merie  Tales.     [1567.] 
Still,   J.     Gammer  Gurton's  needle. 

1575- 
Coplande,  R. 

Devout  Treatise.    Frutes  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.     1534. 
Coplande,  W. 

Lydgate,].  Churle  and  Byrde.  [1555.] 


INDEX. 


i8os 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  i5th&  i6thcents.— ««/. 
Creede,  T. 

Buttcs,  T.    Dyet's  dry  dinner.     1599. 
Gomara,  F.  de.     Conquest  of  West 

India.    1596. 
Greene,  R.    Mammillia.     1593. 

„  Groatsworth     of     Wit. 

1596. 
Greene,  R.     Scottish  Historic.    1598. 
Lavater,  L.     Of  Ghosts.     1596. 
Mirror  of  Knighthood.      8th   Book-. 

1599- 
Morton,  T.     Nature  of  God.     1 599. 
Sehmus,  Tragicall  raigne  of.     1 594. 
Shakespeare,  W.     Henry  V.     1600. 
„  Romeo  and  Juliet. 

1599. 
Tasso,  T.     Of  Marriage,  &c.     1 599. 
Crowley,  R. 

Langland,  W.  Piers  Plowman.   1550. 

Psalter  in  Metre.     1549. 

Wickliffe,  J.     True  copy  of  a  Prolog. 

1550- 
Danter,  John. 

Nash,  T.     Strange  Newes.     1593- 
„  Have  with  you  to  Saffron 

Walden.     1599. 
Smith,  H.     A  fruitful  sermon.     1591. 
Dawson,  T. 
Casas,  B.  de  las.     The  Spanish  Colo- 

nie.     1583. 
Gilpin,  G.  The  Beehive  of  the  Romish 

Church.     1580. 
Gosson,  S.     Ephemerides.     1586. 
Knewstub,  J.    Confutation,  &c.   1579. 
Nicholay,  N.     Navigations.     15S5. 
Day,  John. 

Bale,  J.  Apology.  1551. 
Becon,  T.  Works.  1563. 
Bible.     1549. 

Book  of  Christian  Prayers.     157S. 
Broke,  T.    Meditations.     1548. 
Bullein,  W.     Book  of  Physic.     155S. 
Canons  of  the  Church.     1571. 
Coverdale,  M.     Letters.     1564. 
Crowley,  R.     Confutation.     1548. 
Dee,  J.     Navigation.     1577. 
Fo.x,  J.    Acts  and  Monuments.    1563. 
De  Christo  crucifixo.     1571. 
Grindal,  E.     Sermon.     1564. 
Herman  deWida.  Consultation.  1547. 

10 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  i5th&  i6th  cents.— twz/. 
Day,  John. 

Hooper,Bp.  Godly  Confession.  [1551.] 
Indagine,  J.     Chiromancy.     1558. 
Jewell,  Bp.    Copies  of  Letters.     1560. 
Latimer,  H.     Sermon.     1548. 
»  ,,  '549- 

»  ..  1550- 

•57J. 

n  „  1584- 

Lever,  T.     Sermon.     1 5  50. 
Mexia,  P.    Forest  of  Histories.    1576. 
Norton,  T.     A  Warning.     \n.  di\ 
„  A  Bull.     \n.  rf.] 

„  Disclosing  of  the  Bull. 

[«.  ./.] 
Norton,  T.    An  addition  declaratorie. 

['570.] 
Pasquine's  Recantation.     1 570. 
Psalter  by  Abp.  Parker.     [1575.] 
Sackville,  T.      Tragedie  of  Ferrex. 

[1570.] 
Testament.     The  Gospels.     1574. 
Testimony  of  Antiquitie.     [1567.] 
Turner,  W.  A  newe  Dialogue  [1550.] 
Wilkinson,  W.  Confutation  of  Family 

of  love.     1579. 
Denham,  H. 
Astley,  J.     Art  of  riding.     1584. 
Bentley,  T.     Monument  of  Matrons. 

15S2. 
Essex,  Earl  of.  Funeral  Sermon.  1577. 
Fleming,  A.    Bright  burning  Beacon. 

1580. 
Gesner,  C.  The  new  Jewell  of  health. 

1576. 
Grafton,  R.     Chronicle.     1569. 
Hill,  T.     Almanack.     1571. 
Kempis.     Imitation  of  Christ.     1568. 
Lloyd,  H.   Historic  of  Cambria.   1584. 
Partridge,   J.     Historie   of  Plasidas. 

1566. 
Seneca.     Octavia.     [1566.] 
Turbervile,  G.     Epitaphs.     1570. 
Tusser,  T.    Good  Husbandry.     1580. 

1586. 
East,  T. 

Arthur,  King,  Story  of.      [1580.] 
Batman  upon  Bartholomew.     15S2. 
Byrd,  G.     Sacrre  Cantioncs.     1589. 
Cxsar's  Commentaries.     1590. 
L 


i8o6 


INDEX. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  I5th&  1 6th  cents. — cont. 
East,  T. 

Castaneda.     Discoverie  of  the  E.  In- 
dies.    1582. 
Dowland,  J.     Second  book  of  Songs. 

1600. 
Guazzo,  S.  Civile  conversation.   1586. 
Lyly,  J.     Euphues.     15S5. 

„  ,,  1587- 

„  Euphues  and  his  England. 

1586. 
Lyly,  J.     Euphues  and  his  England. 

158S. 
Mirror  of  Princely  Deeds,    [i  578.] 
„  „  „  [«.rf.] 

„  „  „      2nd  pt.  1599. 

„  „  „      3rd  pt.  [«.</.] 

Morley,  T.  Balletts  to  5  Voyces.  1595. 
„  Madrigals    to   5   Voyces. 

1595- 
Morley,  T.     Madrigals  to  4  Voyces. 

1600. 
Rowlands,  R.     Post  of  the  World. 

1576. 
Spenser,   E.     Shepheard's  Calendar. 

1581. 
Watson,  T.     Madrigalls.     1 5S2. 
Weelkes,  T.     Madrigals.     1597. 
1600. 
Yonge,  N.  Musica  Transalpina.  158S. 
„  „  „   2ndbk.  1597. 

Field,  R. 

Davies' Nosce  teipsum.     1599. 
Drake,  Sir  F.    West  Indian  Voyage. 

1589. 
Harington,  J.  Metamorphosis  of  Aja.\. 

1596. 
Lok,  H.     Ecclesiastes.     1597. 
Shakespeare,  W.   Venus  and  Adonis. 

1594- 

Shakespeare,  W.     Lucrece.     1594. 
Fisher,  T. 

Shakespeare,  W.  Midsommer  night's 
dream.     1600. 
Gaultier,  T. 

Testament,  The  New.     1550. 
Grafton,  R. 

Bible.     1539. 

Bodrugan,  N.     An  Epitome.     1548. 

Garrard,  P.     Godly  invective.     1547. 

Halle,  E.     Chronicle.     1548. 


Printers.      Books    by    English    typo- 
graphers of  the  15  th  &  1 6th  cents. — cont. 
Grafton,  R. 
Halle,  E.     Chronicle.     1550. 
Harding,  J.     Chronicle.     1543. 
Harrison,    J.       Exhortation    to    the 

Scottes.     1547. 
Homilies.     1547. 
Injunctions  of  Edw.  VI.     1547. 
Order  of  the  Communion.     1 548. 
Order  of  the  Hospitals.     1552. 
Patten,  W.  Expedition  into  Scotland. 
1548. 
Griffith,  W. 

Ballad.     Good  fellows  must  go  learn 

dance.     1569. 
Barker,  J.  Description  of  a  monstrous 

childe.     1 564. 
Bette,  T.     New  Ballad.     1570. 
Harman,  T.     Caveat  for   Cursetors. 

1567. 
Harman,  T.     Caveat  for  Cursetors. 

2nd  edition.     1567. 
Osborne,  M.    New  Ballad,  &c.    1568. 
Hall,  Rowland. 

Virgil's  .(Eneid  by  Phaer.     1562. 
Harrison,  R. 
Bible.     1562. 
Hatfield,  A. 

Churchyard,   T.      Musicall    Consort. 

1595- 
Haukyns,  J. 

Palsgrave,  J.     Lesclaircissement  de 
la  Langue  Frangoyse.     1530. 
Herforde,  J. 

Clerk,  J.     De  resurrectione.     1547. 
Gardiner,  S.  Detection  of  the  Devil's 

sophistrie.     1546. 
Gardiner,   S.      Declaration   of  such 

true  articles.     1 546. 
Leyland,  J.     Assertio  Arturii.     1544. 
Hester,  A. 

Bible.     1550. 
Hoskins,  W. 
Fulwell,  U.    The  Flower  of  Fame. 

1575- 
Smith,  H.     A  fruitful!  sermon.    1591. 
How,  W. 
Ballad  rejoysing  the  sodaine  fall,  &c. 

[1570.] 
Desainliens,  C.   The  French  Schoole- 

master.    [1575.] 


INDEX. 


1807 


Printers.      Books    by    F.nglish    typo- 
graphers of  the  1 5th  &  1 6th  cents. — cont. 
How,  W. 
Elderton,  W.     A  proper  new  Ballad, 

&c.     [1570.] 
New  Custom.     1573. 
Newton, T.  Hist.oftheSaracens.  1573. 
Twyne,  T.     The   Garland  of  Godly 

Flowers.     1 574. 
Virgil's  yEneid  by  Phaer  and  Twyne. 
1584. 
Hyll,  N. 
Coverdale,  M.  Christian  Exhortation. 
1552. 
Hyll,  W. 
Bible.     1549. 

Tyndale,  W.  Wicked  Mammon.  [«.  dl\ 
IsLiP,  Adam. 
Coney  catching.     [1592.] 
La  Perriere,  W.     Mirrour  of  Policie. 

1598. 
Lodge,  T.     Wit's  Miserie.     1596. 

„  The  Divel  conjured.  1 596. 

Percy,  W.     Sonnets.     1594. 
Silvayn,  A.     The  Orator.     1594. 
Jackson,  H. 

Merry  Jest  of  a  Shrew.     [1580.] 
Smyth,  R.  Tragicall  Histories.   1577. 
Jackson,  J. 

Percival,  R.     Bibliotheca  Hispanica. 
1591. 

JEFFES,  ABELL. 

Gascoigne,  G.    Whole  workes.    1587. 
Nash,  T.    Pierce  Penilesse.     1592. 
Jones,  W. 

Mumchance,  Mihil.   Art  of  Cheating. 

1597- 
Jones,  R. 

B.,  H.     Ballad.     1566. 
Breton,  N.  Flourish  upon  fancy.  1582. 
Copley,  A.     Fig  for  fortune.     1596. 
Court  of  civill  Courtesie.     1591. 
Cyvile  and  uncyvile  life.     1579. 
Enghsh  Courtier  1586.     v.  Cyvile. 
Gibson,  L.  Very  proper  dittie.  [1570.] 
Gosson,  S.  Ouippesfor  Gentlewomen. 

1595- 
Kempe,  R.    Dutiful  Invective.    1587. 
Segar,  W.     Book  of  Honor.     1590. 
Stubbs,  P.  Anatomic  of  Abuses.  1595. 

„  A  Christal  Glass.     1592. 

Symon,  J.     A  pleasant  posie.     1572. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  i5lh  &  1 6th  cents. — cont. 
JoNli.s,  R. 

Twyne,  T.  The  Schoolcmaster.  1 576. 
Warren,   N.      Nurcerie    of    Names. 

1581. 
Whetstone,  G.    Heptameron.     1582. 
„  Honorable  reputation. 

1585. 
Whetstone,   G.     Mirror    for   Magis- 
trates.    1584. 
Whetstone,  G.  English  Myrror.  1586. 
„  Censure    of   a    loyal 

subject.     1587. 
JUGGE,  R. 

Bale.     Image  of  Churches.     [«.  </.] 
Bible.     1568. 
,,         1572. 
Book  of  Merchants.     1547. 
Homilies.     1563. 

Hooper,  Bp.     Declaration  of  x  Com- 
mandments.    1550. 
Laet,  A.     An  Almanacke.     1548. 
Martyr,  P.  History  of  Travayle.  1577. 
Taisnierus,  J.     Book  of  Navigation. 

[«.  d:\ 

Testament,  The  New.     1553. 
Kele,  R. 

Skelton,  J.     Colyn  Clout.     [1550.] 
„  Why  come  ye  not  to 

court.     [1550.] 

Skelton,  J.     Philip  Sparowe.    [1550.] 
Kingston,  F. 

Heywood,  J.     Works.     1598. 
Kynge,  John. 

/Ena:as  Sylvius.     History  of  Lucres. 
1560. 

Boemus,  J.     Fardle  of  facions.    1555. 

Gosynhill,  Edw.  Prayse  of  all  women. 
In.  </.] 

Lupset,  T.     Works.     1560. 

Schoolhouse  of  Women.     1560. 

Skelton,  J.     Certain  bokes.     [1560.] 
Kyngston,  J. 

Brice,  T.     Register  in  metre.     1559. 

Churchyarde's  Charge.     1580. 

Corderius,  M.  Principia  latina'.   1575. 

Fabyan,  R.     Chronicle.     1559. 

Hitchcock,  R.  A  politique  plot.  1580. 

Missale  ad  usum  Sarum.     1555. 

Recorde,  R.     Whetstone  of  Witte. 
1557. 


i8o8 


INDEX. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphersofthe  i5th&  i6th cents.— cw//. 
Kyngston,  J. 

Rice,    R.      Invective   against   vices. 

1579- 
Wilson,  T.     Rule  of  Reason.     1567. 
„  Art  of  Rhetoric.     1 567. 

„  Discourse   upon    usury. 

1572. 
Lacie,  Alex. 
B.,  R.     A  ballad.     [«.  fl'.] 
Bull.     A  ballad.     1571. 
Description  of  a  monstrous  pig.   1 562. 
Granger,  T.     x.\v.  Orders  of  fooles. 

[1570.] 
Mellys,  J.  Description  of  2  monsters. 

1566. 
Other  thus  it  is.     [«.  dl\ 
Peclc,  S.     The  Pope  in  his  fur)-,  &c. 

['57°.] 
T.,  T.  W.     A  mery  Balade.    [«.  «'.] 
Wilson,  Chr.     Almighty  God  I  pray, 
&c.     1 566. 
Lant,  R. 

Barker,  J.     A  ballad.     [1570.] 
Skelton,  J.     Certaine  works.    [1550.] 
Leake,  W. 

Southwell,  R.     Mseoniffi.     159S. 
Legate,  John. 

Clarke,  W.     Polimanteia.     1595. 
Ling,  N. 

Nash,  T.  Nashes  Lenten  Stuft'e.  1599. 
Lownes,  H. 
Berners,  J.     The  Gentleman's  Aca- 
demic.    1595. 
Lvnne,  Walter. 

Brief  collection  of  texts.     1549. 
Carion's  Chronicle.     1550. 
Concordance  of  the  Scriptures.   1550. 
Cranmer,  T.     Catechismus.     154S. 
Machlinia,  W.  de. 
Watton,    J.      Speculum     Christiani. 
[1480.] 
Marsh,  Henrv. 

Mirror  for  Magistrates.     15S7. 
Marsh,  T. 
Baldwin,  W.    Funeralles  of  Edw.  VI. 

1560. 
Bale.    Pageant  of  Popes.     1574. 
Churchyard's  Chips.     1575. 
Drant,  T.    Medicinable  Moral.  1566. 
Fenlon,  i\.  Tragical  Discourses.  15(17. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  i5th&  i5th  cents. — cont. 
Marsh,  T. 

Heywood,  J.     Works.     1577. 

1587- 
Horace,  his  art  of  Poetry.     1557. 
Lydgate,  J.     History  of  Troy.     1555. 
Mirror  for  Magistrates.     1559. 
»  1563- 

»  »  1571. 

»  »  1574- 

1575- 
Monstrous  Child.     Broadside.   [«.^/.] 
Painter,   W.      Palace    of    Pleasure. 

1575- 
Seneca,  His  tenne  Tragedies.     1581. 
Terence.  Flowers  or  eloquent  phrases. 

15S1. 
Veron,  J.  Marriage  of  Priestes.  \ii.  </.] 
Mather,  John. 
Gilby,  A.  A  Briefe  treatise  of  election. 
[1556.] 
Mayler,  J. 

Coverdale,  M.  On  Matrimony.  1543. 
Necessary  Doctrine.     1543. 
Middleton,  H. 
Gates,  G.     Defence  of  Militarie  pro- 
fession.    1579. 
Moptid,  D. 
Gilby,  A.     A  Briefe  treatise  of  elec- 
tion.    [1556.] 
Mychell,  J.     Canterbury. 

Hurlestone,  R.     Newes  from  Rome. 
1560. 
Neweerie,  R. 
Churchyard,  T.     Warres  of  Flanders. 

1578. 
Fleming,  A.      Panoplie  of  Epistles. 

1576. 
Hakluyt,  R.     Voyages.     1589. 

»  »  1598- 

Homer.     Ihad  translated  by  A.  Hall. 

1581. 
Lloyd,  H.  Historic  of  Cambria.  1584. 
Newman,  T. 
Sidney,  P.     Arcadia.     1590. 

NiCOLSON,  J. 

Testament,  The  New.     153S. 
„  „         1538. 

Turner,  W.    The  old  learning.    1537. 
NiriARY,  Julian. 
Shepherd's  Calendar.     [«.  </.] 


INDEX. 


i8og 


Printers.      Books    by    English    typo- 
graphers of  the  15th  &  i6th  cents.— ttfwA 
Orwin,  T. 
Desamhens,  C.  A  Dictionarie  French, 

&c.     1593. 
Dowriche,  A.  The  French  Hist.  1589. 
Gibbon,  C.  Not  so  new,  as  true.   1590. 
Ripley,  Geo.     The  compound  of  Al- 
chemy.    1591. 
Southerne,   E.      Ordering    of   Bees. 

1593- 

Virgil's  Bucolicks.     1589. 

Warner,  \V.   Albion's  England.   1 589. 
Orwin,  The  Widow. 

Griffin,  B.     Fidessa.     1596. 
OswEN,  J.     Worcester. 

H.,  H.     Consultorie  for   Christians. 

1549- 
Pepwell,  H. 

Christine  di  Pisan.     1521. 

PONSONBIE,  W. 

Azores.     1591. 

Brandon,  S.     Octavia.     159S. 
Chapman,  G.  Shadow  of  Night.  1594. 
Sidney,  P.     Arcadia.     1590. 
Powell,  W. 
Apology  of  private  masse.     1 562. 
Borde,  A.  Breviary  of  Health.     1552. 
Heywood,  J.   Spider  and  Flie.     1556. 
Proctor,  J.     Fall  of  the  late  Arrian. 

1549- 
Seneca.     Troas.     [1560.] 
Testament,  The  New.     154S. 
PURFOOT,  T. 
Desainliens,  C.   The  Italian  Schoole- 

master.     1 597. 
Lyndsay,  D.    Dialogue.     1575. 
„  „  1581. 

Malbie,  N.  Remedies  for  Horses.  1594. 
Mirror  of  Princely  Deeds.    7th  Book. 

159S. 
Warner,  W.     Syrinx.     1597. 
Pynson,  R. 
Brant,  S.     Ship  of  Fools.     1508. 
Brunus,  L.  Cronica  summaria.  [1506.] 
Capgrave,  J.     New  Legend.     1 506. 
Froissart,  J.     Chronicles.     1523. 
Gringoire,  P.     Castell    of    Laboure. 

[1500.] 
Henry  VIII.     Assertio  VII.  Sacra- 

mentorum.      1521. 
Hornianni  Vulgaria.     1519. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  15th  &  i6th  cents. — cont. 
Pynson,  R. 

Lydgate,  J.     History  of  Troy.     151 3. 
Palsgrave,  J.     Lesclaircissement   de 

la  Langue  Frangoyse.     1530. 
Petronylla.     [«.  d.\ 
Promptorius  Puerorum.     1499. 
Sallust.     History   of  the  Jugurthine 
War.     [1510.] 
Rastell,  W. 
Fabyan,  R.     Chronicle.     1533. 
More,  SirT.  Supplycacyon  of  Soulys. 

[1528.] 
More,  Sir  T.     Debellacyon  of  Salem, 

&c.     1528. 
Tales.     The  100  merry  tales.    [1525.] 
Raynai.de,  T. 
Bertram  the  Priest.   1 549.  v.  Append. 
Bible.     1 549. 
Redman,  R. 

Erasmus.     Exposition  of  the  Crede. 

1533- 

Justice  of  the  Peace.     1538. 

Lantern  of  Light.     \it.  rf.] 

Mirror  of  Christ's  Passion.     1534. 

Proclamation  of  Jesus  Christ.    [//.  d.\ 

Whitford,  R.     Pype  or  Tonne  of  per- 
fection.    1532. 
ROBARTS  or  Roberts,  J. 

Breton,  N.  Wit's  Trenchmour.    1597. 

Daniel,  S.     Delia.     1594. 

Drayton,  M.'    Legend  of  Robert   of 
Normandy.     1596. 

Lyly,  J.     Euphues.     1598. 
„  „        and  his  England. 

1597- 
Marston,J.  Scourge  of  Villanie.  1595. 
Nash,  T.     Christ's  Tears.     1593. 
Shakespeare,  W.  Midsommer  night's 

dream.     1600. 
Shakespeare,  W.  Merchant  of  Venice. 

First  edition.    1600. 
Shakespeare,  W.  Merchant  of  Venice. 

Second  edition.    1600. 
Robinson,  G. 

Churchyard,    T.       Worthinesse     of 

Wales.     1 5  87. 
Robinson,  Robert. 

Deloney,    Thomas.     A   proper   new 

sonet.     1586. 
Greene,  R.     Ciceronis  Amor.     1589. 


I8IO 


INDEX. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  t>-po- 
graphers  of  the  1 5th  &  i6th  cents. — cont. 
Robinson,  Robert. 

Nelson, T.  AshorteDiscourse.  [1586.] 

Palingenius,  M.  Zodiake  of  Life.  1588. 

R.,  W.     The  English  Ape.     1588. 

Sterrie,  D.     A  briefe  sonet.     1586. 
Rogers,  Owen. 

Langland,  W.  Piers  Plowman.    1561. 
Scarlet,  Th. 

Green,    R.      Notable    discovery    of 
cosenage.     1592. 

Spain.     Vsage  of  English  Fugitives. 

1595- 
Spain.  Estate  of  Eng.  Fugitives.  1595. 
SCOLOKER,  A. 

Bale,  J.     Sir  J.  Oldcastle.     [1548.] 
Order  of  Matrimony.     \ii.  d-l 
Ordinary  for   all  faithful  Christians. 

[«.  d:\ 

Seres,  W. 

Bale,  J.     Sir  J.  Oldcastle.     1548. 

Bible.     1549. 

Broke,  T.     Meditations.     1548. 

Castiglione,  B.     The  Courtier.    1561. 

Cheke,  J.  The  hurt  of  Sedition.  1569. 

Crowley,  R.     Confutation.     1548. 

Curio,  C.  S.     Pasquine   in  a  trance. 
[1566.] 

Hart,  J.     An  Orthographie.     1569. 

Orarium.     1560. 

Pilkington,  J.     Burning  of  S.  Paul's 
Church.     1563. 

S.,  W.    Answer  to  the  Rebels.    1569. 

Turner,  W.     New  Dialogue.     [1550.] 
„  New  Booke  of  Wines. 

1568. 
Short,  P. 

Daniel,  S.     Civil  Wars.     1595. 

Dee,  J.     A  letter.     1599. 

Norris,  Sir  J.  News  from  Brest.  1594. 

Piatt,  H.  Remedies  ag.  Famine.  1596. 
SiMMES,  Valentine. 

Apollonius.     Patterne  of  painful  ad- 
ventures.    [1595.] 

Breton,  N.    Pasquil's  passe.     iCoo. 

Middleton,  D.   Wisdome  of  Solomon. 
1597- 

Moffat,  T.    Silkworms  and  their  flies. 

1599- 
Shakespeare,  W.     Second    part    of 
Henry  IV.     1600. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  1 5th  &  1 6th  cents. — cont. 
SiMMEs,  Valentine. 

Shakespeare,  W.    Richard  III.   1597 
„  Much  ado.     1600. 

Tyro's  Roring  Meg.     1598. 
Warning  for  fair  Women.     1 599. 
Simpson,  G. 

Broughton,  H.  Concent  of  Scripture. 

1596. 
Cotton,  R.     Spiritual  Song.     1 596. 
„  Armor  of  proof.     1 596. 

Singleton,  Hugh. 
Barnes,  R.     Supplication   to   Henry 

VIII.     [«.  rt'.] 
Gardiner,  J.  De vera  obedientia.  1553. 
Herman  de  Wida.     Duty  of  married 

folks.     [«.  d?\ 
Spenser,  E.     Shepheard's  Calendar. 

1579- 
Skot,  John. 
Emlyn.    The  booke  of  maid  Emlyn. 

[1530.] 

Summoning  of  every  man.     [;/.  d.\ 
Stafford,  S. 

Bradford,  J.     Two  sennons.     1559. 

Greene,  R.     Orlando  Furioso.    1599. 

Shakespeare,  W.     Henry  IV.     1599. 
Stoughton,  R. 

Hart,  H.  A  godly  new  treatise.  1 548. 

Tyndale,    W.      Declaration    of   the 
Sacraments.     [1552.] 
Sutton,  E. 

Martyr,   P.       Decades   of  the   New 
World.     1555. 
Sutton,  H. 

Manuale  Eccl.  Sarisbur.     1554. 

Missale  ad  usum  Sarum.     1555. 
Tisdall,  J. 

Bale,  J.       Declaration    of    Bonner's 
Articles.     1561. 

Palingenius,  M.  Zodiake  of  Life.  1561. 
TOTTELL,  R. 

Bandello.    Romeus  and  Juliet.    1562. 

Boccaccio.    Falles  of  Princes.    1554. 

Tusser,  T.    Good  Husbandry.    1577. 
Treveris,  p. 

Higden,  R.     Polycronicon.     1528. 
Vautrollier,  T. 

Bright,  T.     Of  Melancholic.     1586. 

Desainliens,  C.  Canipodi  Kior.  1583. 

Lentulo,  S.    Italian  Grammar.    1587. 


INDEX. 


i8ii 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  1 5th  &  i6th  cents. — conl. 
Vautrollucr,  T. 

Mulcaster,  R.     I'ositions.     1581. 

„  Engl.  Tongue.     1582. 

•  Spanish  Armada.     Copie  of  a  letter. 

1588. 
Tallis,  T.     Cantioncs.     1575. 
Vele,  a. 
Bale,  J.     Actes  of  Votaries.     1551. 
More,  Sir  T.     Utopia.     1551. 
1556. 
Skelton,  J.     Colyn  Clout.     [1550.] 
„  Why  come  ye   not   to 

Court.     [1550.] 
Waldegrave,  R. 
Andreas,  B.     Sermons.     1583. 
James  I.    Poetical  Exercises.   Edinb. 

1591. 
James  I.    Demonology.  Edinb.  1597. 
Longus.     Daphnis  cS:  Chloe.     1587. 
Paradise  of  dainty  Devices.     1585. 
Waley,  John. 

Moulton,  T.   The  Myrrour  of  Health. 

in.d.-\ 
Skelton,  J.     Philip  Sparow.     \ii.  d.] 
Wallev,  R. 

B.,  R.  Ancient  and  Modern  Physick. 
1585. 
Ward,  Roger. 

Greene,  R.  The  Spanish  Masquerado. 
1589. 
Waterson,  S. 

Columna.     Hypnerotomachia.    1592. 
Jovius,  P.     Discourse  of  rare  inven- 
tions.    1585. 
Watkins,  R. 

Cortes,  M.    Art  of  Navigation.    1589. 
Danasus  on  Witches.     1575. 
Elviden,  E.    A  Newyere's  gift.    1570. 
Lavater,  L.     Of  Ghostes.     1572. 
Pettie,  G.     Petite  Palace.     [«.  d.] 
Way  LAND,  J. 

Bieston,  R.     Bayte  and  snare  of  for- 
tune.    [1558.] 
Boccaccio.     Tragedies.     [1555.] 
Codes,  B.  On  Phisiognomie.  [1550.] 
Hawes,    S.      Historic     of    graunde 

Amoure.     1554. 
Manual  of  Prayers.     1539. 
Webster,  R. 

Mirror  for  Magistrates.     1578. 


Printers.      Books    by    English    typo- 
graphers of  the  1 5th  &  i6th  cents.— fo«/. 
Whitchurch,  E. 
Bible.     1539. 

IS49- 
Calvin,  J.  Epistle  of  consolation.  1550. 
Erasmus.     Proverbes.     1545. 
White,  E. 

Churchyard,  T.  Churchyard's  Choise. 

1579- 
Greene,  R.     Orpharion.     1599. 
Robin  Hood,  A  merry  Jest  of.    [1594.] 
White,  W. 
Broughton,  H.    Concent  of  Scripture. 

[•596.] 
Cotton,  R.     Spirituall  Song.     1596. 
„  Armor  of  proof.     1 596. 

Wight,  J. 

Bible.     1551. 
Wight,  T. 

Manwood,  T.     Forest  Laws.     1598. 
Williamson,  W. 

Robinson,  R.  The  reward  of  Wicked- 
ness.    [1576.] 
Windet,  J. 

Bacon,  F.     Essays.     1597. 

Feme,  J.     Blazon  of  Gentrie.     1586. 

Gascoigne,  G.     Droome  of  Doomes- 

day.     1 586. 
Hooker,   R.      Ecclesiastical   Politie. 

[I595-] 
Psalterium.    Book  of  Psalmes.    1598. 
Tasso,  T.  Godfrey  of  Bulloigne.  1594. 
Wolfe,  John. 

Bull.    The  Holy  Bull  of  Rome.    158S. 
Churchyard's  Challenge.     1593. 
Chute,  A.  Beawtie  dishonoured.  1593. 
D.,  G.     A  Briefe  discoverie.     1586. 
Greene,  R.    Morando.     1587. 

„  Euphues  censure.     15S7. 

„  Second   part   of  Conny- 

catching.     1591. 
Greene,  R.  Quip  for  an  upstart  Cour- 
tier.    1592. 
Harvey,  G.     Pierces  Supererogation. 

1593- 
Harvey,  G.     New  Letter.     1593. 
Hayward,  Sir  J.     Life  of  Henry  IV. 

1599- 
Kyftin,  M.     Blessednes  of  Britaine. 

1588. 
Leyland,  J.     King  Arthur.     1582. 


I8l2 


INDEX. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  15th  &  i6th  cents. — cont. 
Wolfe,  John. 

Gonzalez  de  Mendoga.  Historie  of 
China.     1588. 

Linschoten,  J.  H.     Voyages.     1598. 

Lloyd,  L.  Pilgrimage  of  Princes.  1586. 

Mournful  Ditty.     1590. 

Pigafetta,  F.    Report  of  Congo.    1 597. 

Saviolo,  V.     His  Practise.     1595. 

Southwell,  R.     St.  Peter's  complaint. 

1595- 

Stile,  C.    Psalms  of  invocation.    1588. 

Stow,  J.     Survey  of  London.     1 598. 
Wolfe,  Reynolde. 

Catechismus  Edwardi  VL     IS53' 

Cranmer,  T.  On  the  Sacrament.  1550. 

Jewell,  Bp.     Apologie.     1562. 

Tunstal,  Bp.     Letter  to  Pole.     1560. 

Watson,  T.     Centurie  of  love.     1582. 
WOODCOCKE,  T. 

Bourne,  W.     Art  of  Shooting.     1587. 

Drake,  Sir  F.  True  copy  of  a  dis- 
course.    1589. 

Gosson,  S.     School  of  Abuse.     1587. 
Wright,  W. 

Chettle,H.  Kind  Hart's  dream.  [1593.] 

Fian,  Doctor.    Newes  from  Scotland. 

[1 593-] 
Smith,  H.     The  Wedding  garment. 
1590. 
Wyer,  R. 

Complaint  of  a  dolorous  lover.  [1540.] 
Plutarch.    Governance  of  good  helthe. 

[1540.] 
Ouestionary  of  Chirurgeons.     [i  542.] 
Saint-German.  Dialogue,  &c.  [1530.] 
Wykes,  Henry. 

Agrippa.     Vanitie  of  Arts.     1 569. 
Wynken  de  Worde. 
Alexis,  G.     An  interlocution.     [«.  r/.] 
Almanac  for  xv.  yeres.     [1522.]    v. 

Appendix. 
Bernard,  St.     Meditations.     1496. 
Bemers,  J.   Book  of  Hawking.  1496. 

»  .,  ,!  1503- 

Bonaventure.  Life  of  Christ.  1525. 
Bonde,  W.  Devout  Treatise.  1531. 
Capgrave,  J.  Nova  Legenda.  15 16. 
Catonis  Disticha.  1532. 
Coletus,  J.  De  Octo  orationis  parti- 
bus.     1533. 


Printers.  Books  by  English  typo- 
graphers of  the  1 5th  &;  1 6th  cents. — cont. 
Wynken  de  Worde. 

Erasmus  de  Civilitate  morum.     1532. 
Expositio  Hymnorum.     1509. 

„        Sequentiarum.     1 509. 
Festival,  The.     1508. 
Fisher,    Bp.      Fruitful    Sayings    of 

David.     1525. 
Fisher,    Bp.     Funeral    Sermon    on 

Henry  VII.     1509. 
Fisher,  Bp.     Funeral  Sermon  on  the 

Duchess  of  Richmond.     \ii.  (/.] 
Flower  of  the  Commandments.    1 5 10. 
Four  leaves  of  True  Love.     [«.  d.\ 
Fruit  of  Redemption.     1530. 
Gallant,  A  treatise  of  a.     [«.  d.  ] 
Gradus  comparationum.     1603. 
Hawes,  S.  Exempel  of  Vertue.  1530. 
Higden,  R.     Polycronicon.     1495. 
Hilton,  W.    Scala  perfectionis.  1494. 

V  „  »  1533- 

Lyndewode,W.  Constitutiones.  1496. 
Martyrology.     Martiloge  in  English. 

1526. 
More,  Sir  T.  Life  of  Jo.  Picus.  \ii.di\ 
Nichodemus'  Gospell.     151 1. 
Orchard  of  Syon.     1519. 
Ordinary  of  Christian  Men.     1 506. 
Ortus  Vocabulorum.     1532. 
Parvula.     [«.  rf.] 
Parvulorum  Institutio.     \jt.  d.} 
Peniteas  cito  hbellus.     [s.  a.] 
Richard  Coeur-du-Lion.     1528. 
RoUe,  R.     Contemplations.     [«.  d.] 
Stanbridge.     Vulgarias.     [«.  d.] 
Statutes  of  Henry  VIL     1 508. 
Tribulation,  XH.  Profites  of.    1530. 
Vitas  Patrum.     1495. 
Voragine,J.de.  Golden  Legend.  1527. 
Whitford,  R.  Pipe  of  perfection.  1532. 
„  Werkefor  Householders. 

'533- 
Whitington,  R.     Vulgaria.     1527. 
Proverbs. 

Danvers,  H.     Solomon's  Prov.     1676. 
Fabritii,  A.  C.  degli.    Volgari  Proverbi. 

1526. 
Freydanck.  Proverbia  clo(iucntis.  ['i.d.] 
„  „  „     ^traslmrg. 

1508. 
Kelly,  James.     Scotish  Proverbs.  1721. 


INDEX. 


i8i3 


VViO\'e.^v.%— continued. 
Le  Roiix  de  Lincy.   Proverbes  Franqais. 

1859. 
Mai  Lara,  J.de.  La  Philosophia  vulgar. 

1568. 
Nunez,  H.     Refranes.     1555. 
1619. 
Perez  de  Herrera.     Proverbios.     173.3. 
Proverbs  in  Spanish  and  Engl.     MS. 
Proverbs  from  the  Koran.     MS. 
R.,  N.     Proverbs.     1659. 
Ray,  J.     English  Proverbs.     1768. 
RoUand,  F.     Adagios,  (S:c.     1780. 

QuiR,  F.     Australia  incognita,     v.  Hud- 
son. 

Raimondi,  Marc  Antonio. 

Berrutus,  A.     Dialogus.     1517. 

Epistole  e  Evangelii.     1512. 
Reynard  the  Fo.x.    v.  Schopperus. 
Rhodes,  Island  of. 

Caoursin,  G.     Obsidio  Rhodie.     1496. 
Riddles. 

Thesaurus  jEnigmaticus.     1 727. 

"Witling.     1750. 
Rivers,  John.    v.  Abbot-Rivers. 
RoiiERT  DE  AVESBURY,    Historia   Edw. 

III.     V.  Hearne. 
Robert   of  Gloucester's  Chronicle,     v. 

Hearne. 
Romances,  English. 

Amadis  of  Gaule.  1619. 

„  „  Treasurie  of.   [1567.] 

Amadis  of  Greece. 

AppoUonius.  Painful  adventures.  [1595.] 

Arthur,  King.     Story  of.     1557. 
„  „  1580. 

j»  »  1634. 

Arthur  of  Little  Britain.     1 8 14. 

Belianis  Honour  of  Chivalrie.     1598. 

Deloney,  T.  Thomas  of  Reading.  1632. 
).  >,  „  1636. 

Faustus,  Life  of  Dr.  John.     1682. 

Ford,  E.     Montelyon.     1633. 

»  ,,  i673. 

„  Ornatus.     1634. 

„  Parismus.     1649.    w.  Appen- 

dix. 
Hawkwood,  Sir  J.     The  honour  of  the 

Taylors.     1687. 
Holland,  S.    Romancio-Mastrix.  1660. 


10 


Romances,  English— <ro«/»;«</-(/. 
Johnson,  R.     History  of  Tom  a  Lin- 

colne. 
Johnson,  R.     Seven  Champions.    1670. 
Knight  of  the  Sea.     1600. 
L.,  L.     Evagoras.     A  Romance.     1677. 
Le  Fevre,  R.     History  of  Troy.     1607. 

..  .,  ,,  i63<J- 

Mervine,  History  of.     1612. 
Olivaires  of  Castile.     1695. 
Palladmc  of  England.     1664. 
Palmendos,  Historic  of.     1589. 
Palmerin  of  England.     1639. 
Palmerin  d'Oliva.     1637. 
Paris  of  Vienna.     [1630.J 
Shurley,  J.  Guy,  E.  of  Warwick.  \it.  d\ 
Valentine  and  Orson.     1649. 

»  ,,  1673- 

„  „  16S2. 

I,  ,1  ['('90-] 

Romances,  French. 
Fierabras.     [j'.  a.] 
Gyron  le  Courtoys.      \s.  </.] 
Huon  de  Bordeaux.     \s.  di\ 

„  „  15S6. 

„  „  1606. 

Lancelot  du  Lac.     1513. 
Le  FevTi;,  R.  Histoires  Troiennes.  \s.  d.] 
Merlin.     MS. 
Merlin.     1498. 
NeufPreux.    1507. 
Ogier  le  Danois.     [s.  d.] 
Palmerin  d'Angleterre.     1553. 
Palmerin  d'Olive.     1573. 
Paris  et  Vienne.     MS. 

„  „  [.f.  d.] 

Perceforest,  Histoire  de.     1528. 
Pierre  de  Provence,     [s.  d.] 

„  „  [1729-] 

Romans.      [French     Romances    from 
Ancient  Manuscripts.] 

Sonan,  A.  B.     Chriserionte.    1620. 

I'hcseus  de  Cologne.     1534. 

Tristan,  Histoire  du  noble.    1586. 

Turpin.     Cronique.     1527. 
Romances,  German. 

Boccaccio,  J.     Decameron,     [c /.] 

Eschenbach,  W.  von.     Partzilal.    1477. 
„  „  Tjturell.    1477. 

Fierabras.     1533. 

Fortunatus.     15 18. 

Hug  Schapler.     1500. 
M 


i8i4 


INDEX. 


Romances,  German — continued. 

Lotarius.     1514. 

Oliveros  de  Castilla.     1521. 

Pfintzing,  M.     Tewrdannckh.     1 5 17. 

Ponthus.     1548. 
Romances,  Italian. 

Palmerin  de  Oliva.     1534. 

Tirante  il  Bianco.     1538. 

Valentino  e  Orsone.     1558. 
Romances,  Spanish. 

Aiiiadis  of  Gaul.      Venetia.     1533. 
„  „  Sevilla.     1535. 

„  „  Florisel  de  Niquea. 

Sarngossa.     1 5  84. 

Avellaneda.A.F.  de.  Don  Quixote.  1614. 

Ayllon,  D.  X.     El  Cid.     i'579. 

Canamor.     La  Historia.     1543. 

Carlo  Magno.     1 52 1. 

Celestina.     1531. 

1536- 
„  Is.  «.] 

'599- 
Cervantes,  M.de.  Don  Quixote.  Various 

editions. 
Cervantes,   M.  de.     Persiles.     Various 

editions. 
Cid.     Chronica.     1512. 
1552. 
1588. 
Escobar,  J.  de.     Romancero  del  Cid. 

1612. 
Escobar,  J.  de.     Romancero  del   Cid. 

1706. 
Escobar,  J.  de.     Romancero  del  Cid. 

1747- 
Flores,  J.  de.     La  Hystoria  de  Grisel. 

1 5 14. 
Flores  y  Blancaflor.     1604. 
„  [.r.  3.] 

Gaiferos.     Romance  de  Don  Gaiferos. 

[,605.] 
Hurtado   de   Mendoza.      Lazarillo   de 

Tonnes.     1555. 
Montemayor,  G.  de.     Diana.     1595. 

„  „  .,  1614- 

Oliveros  de  Castilla.     1535. 
Palmerin  de  Oliva.     1526. 
1536. 
Pierres  de  Provenza.     1526. 
Policisne.     Historia  famosa.     1602. 
Primaleon.     1534. 
Roberto  el  Diablo.     1607. 


Romances,  Sv.kViiSK— continued. 
Roselao  de  Grecia.     1547. 
Tablante  de  Ricamonte.     15 13. 

1563- 
Rome,  Sack  of.     1527.    v.  Eroberung. 
Roper,  GuL     Vita  D.  Thoma;  Mori.     v. 

Hearne. 
Rossi,  J.     Historia   Regum  Angliae.     v. 

Hearne. 
RUMOLDUS,  S.     Vita.     V.  Ward. 
Russell,  History  of  the  House  of.     v. 

Wiffen. 
Russia. 

Collins,  S.     State  of  Russia.     1671. 

Fletcher,  G.  Of  the  Russe  Common- 
wealth.    1 59 1. 

Goeteeris,  A.  JournaelderLegatie.  1619. 

Justice,  E.     Voyage  to  Russia.     1739. 

Korb,  J.  G.  Diarium-ltineris  in  Mosco- 
viam.     1700. 

Mayerberg.  IterinMoschoviam.  [1670.] 

Smith,  T.     Voiage  into  Russia.     1605. 
Rutheni.    v.  EiTores. 

Sackville,  E.  of  Dorset,     v.  Abbot. 
St.  George,  History  of.     v.  Lowick. 
„  „  V.  White. 

St.  Patrick's  Purgatory. 
Horneck,   B.   de.      De  purgatorio    D. 
Patricii.     \s.  «.] 
Sanderson,  Bp.    v.  Walton. 
Scotland. 
Adamson,J.  The  Muses  Welcome.  1613. 
Alesius,  A.     Disputatio.     1533. 
„  Cohortatio.     1544. 

Barbour's  Bruce.     1620. 
Bella  Scot-Anglica.     1648. 
Bodrugan,  N.  King  of  England's  title  to 

Scotland.     1 548. 
Chambre,D.  Singularitdsd'Ecosse.  1579. 
Charles    I.   Entertainment    in    Edinb. 

1633- 

Charles  L  Entertainment  in  Scotland. 
164.. 

Corbet,  J.  Ungirding  of  Scottish  Ar- 
mour.    1 639. 

Dempster,  Th.  Historia  Eccles.  gentis 
Scotorum.     1627. 

Dick,  Sir  W.  Lamentable  Estate  of. 
[1650.] 

Discoverie  of  a  Conspiracie  of  Scottish 
Papists.     1593. 


INDEX. 


1815 


Scotland— (ro;?//««^rt'. 

Fian,    Doctor.     News   from   Scotland. 

['592-] 
Fordun,  .Scotichronicon.     v.  Hearne. 
Franck,  R.     Northern  Memoirs.    1694. 
Garden,  A.  Theatre  of  the  Scotish  Kings. 

1709. 
Gordon,  P.    Hist,  of  Robert  Bruce.  1615. 
Gowrie,  Earl  of.     Conspiracie.     1603. 
Greene,  R.   Scottish  Hist,  of  James  IV. 

1 598. 
Harrison,  J.  Exhortation  to  the  Scottes. 

1547- 

Hart,    Sir   W.     Examination   of  Geo. 
Sprot.     1609. 

Johnston,  J.  Inscriptiones  Regum  Scot. 
1602. 

Johnston,  J.    Heroes  Historiae  Scoticas. 
1603. 

Keith,  R.     Scottish  Bishops.     1824. 

Knox,  J.  History  of  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land.    [1584.] 

Knox,  J.    History  of  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land.    1644. 

Leslxus,Jo.  De  origine,  &c.  Scotorum. 
1578. 

Patten,  W.     The  Expedition  into  Scot- 
land.    1548. 

Picts,  The  History  of  the.     1706. 

Thornboroiigh,  J .  Reuniting  of  England 
&  Scotland.     [1604.] 

Thornborough,  J.     Happie  Vnion,  &c. 
1604. 
Scotland,  Books  printed  in. 

Adamson,  J.    Muses  Welcome.   Ediiib. 
161 3. 

Barbour's  Bruce.     Edinb.     1620. 

Bevis  of  Hampton.     Aberdeen.     1630. 

Bible.     Edinb.     1576-9. 
„  „  1610. 

).  ,.  1633. 

Book  of  Godly  Songs.     Edinb.     1621. 

Boyd,  Z.     Psalms  of  David.    Glasgow. 
1648. 

Buchanan,  G.    Epigrams.  Edinb.  1708. 

Charles  I.  Entertainment.  Edinb.  1633. 

Clerkson,  Bessy.     Glasgow.     1698. 

Davidson,  T.    Cantus.  Aberdeen.   1682. 

Delectable  little  history  in  metre.  Glas- 
gow.     1 695. 

Dickson,  D.  True  Christian  love.  Edinb. 
1701. 


Scotland,  Books  printed  in — cotitinued. 
Donaldson,  J.     Picktooth  for  Swearers. 

Edinb.     169S. 
Drummond,  W.  Teares  on  the  death  of 

Masliades.     Edinb.     16 14. 
Drummond,  W.    Poems.    Edinb.    1616. 
„  Forth  Feasting.  Edinb. 

1617. 
Drummond,  W.  Flowers  of  Sion.  Edinb. 

1630. 
English,  Peter.  Survey  of  Policy.  Lcith. 

1653- 
Friar  and  tlic  Boy.     \_Glasgow^     1698. 
FuUarton,  J.   The  Turtle-Dove.  Edinb. 

1664. 
Garden,  A.     Theatre   of   the    Scotish 

Kings.     Edinb.     1709. 
Geddes,  W.    Saints'  recreation.    Edinb. 

1683. 
Grahame,  .S.    Anatomie  of  Humours. 

Edinb.     1609. 
H.,  T.      Beautie  of  the  year  of  grace 

1638.     Edinb.     1638. 
Irvine,  Ch.     Hist.  Scot.  Nomenclatura. 

Edinb.     1682. 
James   I.     Poetical  exercises.     Edinb. 

1591. 
James   I.     Demonology.   Edinb.    1597. 
Lithgow,    W.       Scotland's    Welcome. 

Edinb.     [1633.] 
Lithgow,  W.     Gushing  Teares.    Edinb. 

1640. 
Lyndsay,  D.  Workes.  Abe?-deen.   162S. 
,,  William  Meldrum.  Edinb. 

1594. 
Melvill,  E.    A  Godly  dream.    Glasgow. 

1698. 
Montgomery,  A.  The  Cherrie  and  Slae. 

Glasg02u.     169S. 
Petrarch,  F.    Triumphs  of  love.    Edinb. 

1644.. 
Picts,  History  of  the.     Edinb.     1706. 
Robins,  T.  Mans  chief  guide.  Glasgow. 

1698. 
Scot,    G.     Government   of    N.   Jersey. 

Edinb.     1685. 
Scotland.  Broadsides  and  Acts.  Edinb. 

1 660- 1 7 1 3. 
Scmpill,  R.    Ane  new  Ballett.    Si.  An- 
drews.    1572. 
Sempill,  R.     Ane  complaint  upon  For- 
tune.    Ediiib.     1572. 


i8i6 


INDEX. 


Scotland,  Books  printed  m— continued. 
Symson,A.    Tripatriarchichon.    Edinb. 

1705. 
Varamund,   E.     Outrages    of    France. 

St  rive  ting.     1573. 
Wallace,    J.     Description    of   Orkney. 

Edinb.     1693. 
Wallace,  Sir  W.,  Life  of.    Edinb.    1618. 
Scourge  of  Venus,    v.  A.,  H. 
Shakespeare. 

Douce,  F.  Illustrations  of  Shakespeare. 

1807. 
Jordan,  John.     Collections  on   Shake- 
speare.    1864. 
Jordan,John. Original  Memoirs,&c.  1865. 
Phillipps.J.O.  Lifeof Shakespeare.  1848. 
Phillipps,  J.  O.     Various   Tracts,  Sic. 

1849-74. 
Roberts,  N.  ap.     1864. 
White,  R.  G.    Memoirs  of  Shakespeare. 
1866. 
Short    story   of   Antinomians   in    New 

England,     v.  W.,  T. 
Shropshire. 
Adams.    Murder  in  Shropshire.    1674. 
Eyton,  R.  W.     Antiquities.     1854-60. 
Owen  and  Blakeway.    Hist,  of  Shrews- 
bury.    1825. 
Sidney's  Astrophel,  Plagiarism  from.    v. 

Rodenburgh. 
Silkworms. 

B.,  T.  Art  of  breeding  Silkworms.  1733. 
De  Serres,  O.  Perfect  use  of  Silkworms. 
1607. 
Somerset. 

Collinson,  J.,  History  of.     1791. 
Glastonbury,  History  of.     v.  Hearne. 
Songs. 

H.,  J.     A  choice  compendium.     1681. 
Ladies' delight.     1741. 
Leveridge,  R.     Songs.     1727. 
Ritson,  J.     English  Songs. 
„  Scottish  Songs. 

„  Ancient  Songs. 

Rump  Songs.     1662. 
Songs,  [various  books  of]. 
Spiritual  Songs.     1623. 
Universal  Harmony.    [1760.] 
Universal  Musician.    [1750.] 
Spain. 

Abulcacim.    Historia  del  Rey  Don  Ro- 
drigo.     1606. 


S  P  A I N — continued. 

Aldrete,  B.  Antiguedades  de  Espafia. 
1614. 

Bosch,  A.     Titols  de  Honor.     1628. 

Carbonell,  M.  Croniques  de  Espafia. 
1546. 

Cronicas  de  Espafia.     1779-87. 

Chronicles.  Chronica  del  Rey  Fer- 
nando 3.     1551. 

Chronicles.     Chronica  del  Rey  Alonso. 

1554- 

Chronicles.  Chronica  del  Rey  Don  Fer- 
nando.    1554. 

Chronicles.  Chronica  del  Rey  Alonso 
el  Onzeno.     1546. 

Chronicles.  Chronica  de  Don  Alvaro 
de  Luna.     1546. 

Daunce,  E.  Discourse  of  the  Spanish 
State.     1590. 

Ferdinand  and  Isabella.  Capitulacion, 
&c.     MS. 

Ferdinand  V.  El  Recebimiento.  [15 13.] 

Medina,  P.  de.     Grandezas  de  Espafia. 

1549- 

Spanish  Annada.  Relacion.     \_s.  a.] 

„  „  Letter.     1588. 

„  „  Asserte        Ragioni. 

1593- 

Wadsworth,  J.  English  Spanish  Pil- 
grim.    1629. 

Wadsworth,  J.     English  Spanish  Pil- 
grim.    1630. 
Spanish  Books,  various. 

.itsopo  Hystoriado.     1 52 1. 

Alaejos,  E.  de.     Obra  muy  util.     1596. 

Aldrete,  B.  Varias  Antiguedades. 
1618. 

Amadis  de  Gaula.     1533. 
»  1535- 

„  1547- 

Antonio.  Chronicas  de  Relig.  Descalzos. 
1738-44. 

Aparicio,  P.  de.  Relacion  del  Viage, 
&c.     1603.     V.  Appendix. 

Aparicio,  P.  de.  Vida  deM.de  Cabre- 
jas.     V.  Appetidix. 

Apiano,  P.  Cosmographia.  1 548.  v.  App. 

Arguello.  Instruciones  del  Inquisition. 
V.  Appendix. 

Arteaga.     Obras.     1650. 

Articulospara  la  capitulacion  deMecina. 
i6i8. 


INDEX. 


1817 


Spanish  Books,  various — continued. 
Auto  dc  la  Ke.     1672. 
AvcUaiieda,  A.   F.  de.     Don  Quixote. 

1614. 
Avellaneda  y  Hare.      Question  Moral. 

1636. 
Avendafio.    Avisa  de  Cagadores.    1543. 
Ayllon,  D.  X.  El  Cid  Ruy  Diez  de  Bivar. 

1579- 
Baiios   de  Velasco.     Seneca  ilustrado. 

1670. 
Baptista.   Advertencias  para  los  confes- 

sores.     1600. 
Barcia,  A.  G.    Historiadores  primitives. 

1749.     V.  Appi-ndix. 
Barros,  A.  de.  Proverbios  morales.  1608. 
Bartolomees,  J.     Epistola  i.  los  Peru- 

leros.     \s.  3.] 
Benavides.     Memorial.     1630. 
Benitez,  F.  Relacion  maravillosa.  1609. 

V.  Appendix: 
Bermudez,  Geron.     Tragedias  Espaiio- 

las.     1577. 
Bernardo  del  Carpio.  Cinco  Romances. 

[1607.]     V.  Appendix. 
Bibles.     1553,  1569,  1602,  and  1630. 
Bleda,  J.    Coronica  de  los  Moros.  1618. 
Boccaccio,  Fiameta.     1546. 

„  Cayda  de  Principes.     1511. 

Boscan,  J.     Obras.     1543. 

,.  „  1549- 

Bravo,  C.      Contra   la   luxuria.      1603. 

V.  Appendix. 
Buxeda  y  Leyva.  Hist,  de  Japon.  1591. 
Cabrera,  C.  de.  Armas  de  Mexico.  1746. 
Camerino,  J.     Novelas.     1624. 
Canamor.     La  historia.     1543. 
Cancionero  General.    1557.   \.  Append, 
„  „  1572.   v.  Append. 

Canes,  F.    Gramatica  Arab-Esp.    1775. 
Cardenas,  B.  de.     Memorial.     1634. 
Carducho,  V.     Dialogos  de  la  pintura. 

1634. 
Carlo  Magno.     Hysteria.     1521. 
Caro  y  Cejudo.     Refranes.     1792. 
Carochi,  H.     Lengua  Mexicana.    1759. 
Carrasco,   J.   T.     Relacion   verdadera. 

[1608.]    V.  Appendix. 
Casas,  B.  de  las.  Brevis.  relacion.  1583. 
Castillo,  A.  de.     El  devoto  Peregrine. 

1654. 
Castillo,],  de  Forres.  Relacion,  cic.  1662. 


Spanish  Books,  vKtXowi— continued. 
Caulin,  A.     Historia  de  la  Andalucia. 

1779- 
Centeno,  A.     Cosas  del  Oriente.     1595. 
Cepeda,   F.  de.     Relacion  de   Mexico. 

1637. 
Cervantes,  M.  de.    Galatea.     1585. 

„  Don  Quixote.  Madrid.  1605. 

„  „  Valencia.  1605. 

„  „  Briisselas.  1607. 

„  „  Madrid.     1608. 

„  „  Milan.     16 10. 

,,  „  2nd  part.     161 5. 

„  „  „  1616. 

„  „         Both  parts.  1744. 

»  ).  .1  '780. 

1797-8. 
„  Novelas  e.xemplares.      1613. 

>.  »  !.  1614- 

>.  »  I.  1615. 

„  Viage  del  Parnaso.     1614. 

Cervantes,  M.  de.  Los  Trabaios  de  Per- 

siles.     Madrid.     1617. 
Cervantes,  M.  de.  Los  Trabaios  de  Per- 

siles.     Pamplona.     1617. 
Cervantes,  M.  de.  Los  Trabaios  de  Per- 

siles.     Barcelona.     1617. 
Cervantes,  M.  de.  Los  Trabaios  de  Per- 

siles.      Valeticia.     1617. 
Cervantes,  M.  de.  Los  Trabaios  de  Per- 

siles.     Britcelas     1 6 1 8. 
Cervantes,  M.  de.  Ocho  Cemedias.  161 5. 
Cevallos,  B.     Case  gracioso,  &c.    1606. 

V.  Appendix. 
Chronicles.  CronicasdeEspaiia.  1779-87. 
„  Chronica  de  Fernando  IIL 

1551. 
Chronicles.    Chronica  de  Don  Alenso. 

1554- 
Chronicles.  Chronica  de  Don  Fernando. 

1554- 
Chronicles.    Chronica  de  Alfonso   XL 

1551. 
Chronicles.  Chronica  de  Don  Alvaro  de 

Luna.     1 546. 
Cid.     Cronica.     15 12. 

1552- 

1588. 
„  „  1 593.     V.  Appendix. 

„  „  SeysRemances.[i6o8.] 

V.  Appendix. 
Cieca  de  Leon.  Chronicadel  Peru.  1554. 


i8i8 


INDEX. 


Spanish  Books,  various — contimted. 
Clamades,  Historia  de.  1607.  w.  Appen- 
dix. 
Coloma,    J.     Decada    de    la    Passion. 

1576. 
Conguera,  D.  Relacion  de  la  tempestad. 

1608.     V.  Appendix. 
Coronel.     Islas  Filipinas.     1628. 
Covarruvias,  S.  de.    Tesoro  de  la  lengua 

Espafiola.     161 1. 
Cuesta,  J.  de  la.     Libro  y  tratado,  &c. 

1589. 
Cuevas,  A.  de.  Relacion  de  un  milagro. 

1607.     V.  Appendix. 
Dameto,  J.     Reyno  Balearico.   1633-50. 
Davila,  G.  G.     Grandezas  de  Madrid. 

1623. 
Davila  y  Heredia.     Impostoies  de  la 

Medicina.      \s.  ai\ 
Daymiel,  F.     Famoso  milagro.     1603. 

V.  Appendix. 
Deli,  Andres.     Tesoro  de  la  Passion. 

1517. 
Desclot,  B.  Historia  de  Cataluna.  1616. 
Diaz  del  Castillo.     Historia  de  la  Con- 

quista  de  la  Nueva  Espana.     1632. 
Diaz  de  Osma.     La  vida  de  S.  Amaro. 

1552. 
Diez   de  la  Calle.     Memorial  informa- 

torio.     1645. 
Diez  de  la  Calle.     Memorial,  y  noticias 

sacras.     [1646.] 
Enciso,  M.  F.  de.  Suma  de  Geographia. 

1519. 
Enrique,  Historiade.  1533.  w.  Appendix. 
Enzina,  Juan  del.     Cancionero.     1516. 
Epistolas  y  Evangelios.     1544. 
Ercilla  y  Zuniga.     La  Araucana.    1597. 
Escobar,  J.  de.  Romanc.  del  Cid.  1612. 

;.  J.  »  ,1  1706 

j>  r)  "  »  ^747- 

Escobar,  L.  de.    Las  quatrocientas  res- 

puestas.     1552. 

Escobar,  L.  de.  Las  quatrocientas  res- 
puestas.     \s.  «.] 

Espejo  de  la  devocion.  1607.  \.  Appen- 
dix. 

Epinosa,  P.    Flores  de  Poetas.    1605. 

Espoleto,  Andres  de.  Martyrio.  [1532.] 
v.  Appendix. 

Farsa  del  Molincro.  1608.  \.  Appen- 
dix. 


Spanish  Books,  vmon%—conlimted. 
Felippe,    B.      Tractado    del    Conseio. 

1584. 
Ferdinand  y    Isabella.      Capitulacion. 

MS. 
Ferdinand  V.     El  Recebimiento.  1 5 1 3. 
Fernandez,  D.     Hist,  del  Peru.     1571- 
Figueroa,  L.  de.     Relacion  verissima. 

1603. 
Flor  de  doce  Comedias.     1652. 
Flores  y  Blancaflor.     1604. 
[s.  a.] 
Francis,  St.     Vida  y  Milagros.     1608. 
Fuentes,  A.  de.     Libro  de  los  quarenta 

cantos  pelegrinos.     1 564. 
Gaiferos.     Romance  de  Don  Gayferos. 

[1605.] 
Garcia,  P.     Orden  de  el  Santo  Oficio. 

1622. 
Garcilasso  de  la  Vega.     Obras.     1580. 
„  „  „        Commentarios 

Reales.     1609-17. 
Garibay,  E.   de.     lUustraciones  Gene- 

alogicas.     1 596. 
Godoy,  Juan  de.     Relacion  verissima. 

1608. 
Gomez,   Fernan.     Centon  Epistolario. 

1499. 
Gomez,  Gaspar.     Tercera  parte  de  Ce- 

lestina.     1539. 
Gomez  de  Figueroa.     Reprehension  de 

la  republica.    1607. 
Gonzalez,  Estev.  Vida  y  Hechos.  1646. 
Gonzalez  de  Legaria,  J.     Obra  nueva. 

1608. 
Gonzalez    de   Mendoga.      Historia   de 

China.     15S5. 
Gonzalez   de    Mendoqa.      Historia    de 

China.     1596. 
Granadilla,  S.  de.     Coplas.     1607. 
Guzman,  F.  de.      Flor  de  Sentencias. 

1557- 
Haedo,  D.  de.     Topographia  de  Argel. 

1612. 
Herrera,  A.  de.     Historia  do  las  Indias. 

1601-15. 
Herrera,  A.  de.    Historia  dc  las  Indias. 

1730. 
Herrera,  F.  de.     Obras.     1582. 
Hidalgo,  G.  L.     Dialogos.     1610. 
Hurtado,    L.     Estrana    invencion,   &c. 

1608. 


INDEX. 


1819 


Spanish  Books,  \s.x\ovi%—contimied. 
Huitado    de   Mendoza.      Lazarillo  de 

Tormes,  &c.     1555. 
Jesus,  D.  de.     Conceptos  Espirituales. 

1668. 
Juan  Manuel.  El  Conde  Lucanor.  1575. 
Ledesma,  A.  de.  Conceptos  Espirituales. 

1600. 
Ledesma,  A.  de.  Romancero,  &c.  1616. 
Le  Quesne,  J.  Psalmos  de  David.  1606. 
Linares,  J.     Cancionero.     1608. 
Lopez  de  Mendoza.  Proverbios.  15 19. 

,.  1530- 

1552. 
Lopez,  Dom.  Noticias  Historicas.  17 14. 
Lozano,  P.  Descripcion  del  Gran  Chaco. 

1733- 
Lozano,  G.     Loores  de  .Santos.     1619. 
Luzero  de  nuestra  salvacion.    1603.    v. 

Appendix. 
Luzero  de  nuestra  salvacion.      1607.   v. 

Appendix. 
Magdalena  de  San  Geronimo.     1608. 
Mai  Lara,  J.  de.     Philosophia  vulgar. 

1568. 
Manrique,  J.     Coplas.     1603. 
1614. 
March,  M.  A.     Obras.     1539. 

1555- 
Mariana,  J.  de.  Hist,  de  Espana.    1509. 
Marineo  Siculo.     Vida  de  Fernando  y 

Isabel.     1546. 
Martinez  de  Espinar.     Arte  de  Balles- 

teria.     1644. 
Martinez,  N.  RelacionVerdadera.  1607. 
Matienzo,  L.  Verdadera  Relacion.  1608. 
Medina,  P.  de.     Grandezas  de  Espana. 

'549-  "' 

Mena,  J.  de.     Obras.     1536. 

1 547- 
1552. 

Mercurio  Peruano.   1 791-5. 

Merman.     Relaqion,  &c.     1608. 

Mesa,  T.  de.     Andeluvio  de  el  Guadal- 
quivir.    1603. 

Mesua,  Joh.  Sobre  el  Mesue  y  Nicolao. 
1542. 

Mongaston,  J.  de.  Testamento  de  N.  S. 
1608. 

Montalvan,  J.  P.  de.     Sucesso  de  Amor. 

1635- 
Montemayor,  G    ^e.     Diana.     1595. 


Spanish  Books,  various— coniinucd. 
Montemayor,  G.  de.     Diana.     1614. 
Montesinos,  K.     Auto  de  la  Fe.     1639. 
Montserrat,  Historiade  N.  S.  de.   1550. 
Morejon,  D.  de.  Vida  de  S.  Anna.  1605. 
Moreno,  C.     Agua  Bendita.    1600. 
Morga,  A.  de.     Islas  Philipinas.    1609. 
MoriUatcn,  J.     Refranes.     [n.  d.] 
Mosquera    de    Figueroa.       Disciplina 

Militar.     1596. 
Navarrete,  F.     Tratados  Historicos  de 

China.     1676. 
Nuiiez,  A.   Relacion,  &c.,  de  las  Indias. 

I5S5- 
Nunez,  H.     Refranes.     1555. 
„  1619. 

Nufiez  de  la  Pefia.     Conquista  de   las 

Islas  Canaria.     1676. 
Ocampo,   F.  de.     Cronica  de  Espana. 

1543- 
Oliveros  de  Castilla.     1535. 
Olmo,  J.  de.    Relacion  Historica.    1680. 
Ona,  P.  de.     Arauco  Domado.     1605. 
Ortega,  J.  de.  Relacion  Verissima.  1607. 
Ortiz,  A.     Tratados.     1493. 
Ortiz,  F.     Epistolas  Fam.     155 1-2. 
Ortunez  de  Calahorra.   Espeio  de  Prin- 

cipes.     1617. 
Ortunez  de  Calahorra.    Espeio  de  Prin- 

cipes.     1623. 
Ovalle,  A.  de.     Historica  Relacion  de 

Chile.     1646. 
Ovalle,  A.  de.     Historica  Relacion  de 

Chile.     1646. 
Oviedo  y  Valdes.     Natural  Historia  de 

las  Indias.     1527. 
Oviedo   y   Valdes.      Coronica    de   las 

Indias.     1547. 
Oviedo  y  Valdes.      Historia  General. 

1557- 
Pacheco,  F.    Arte  de  la  Pintura.    1649. 
Pacheco  de  Narvaez.     Grandezas  de  la 

Espada.     1600. 
Padilla,  J.  de.     Triumphos  de  los  xii. 

Apostolos.     1521. 
Padilla,  P.  de.    Jardin  Espiritual.   1585. 
Palacios  Rubios.     Tract,  del  bello  he- 

royco.     1524. 
Palafox  y  Mendoza,  J.  de.    Virtudes  del 

Indio.     [s.  ct.] 


Palmerin  de  Oliva. 


1536. 
'536. 


1 820 


INDEX. 


Spanish  Books,  vaxxons— continued. 
Pastor,  J.     Tragedia.      [1608.] 
Pedro  de  Alcala.   Arte  de  la  lengua  Ara- 

viga.     1 50 1. 
Pedro,  Libro  del  Infante  Don.     1606. 
Pelew  Islands.     Descubrimiento,    &c. 

[1705.] 
Percival,   R.     Bibliotheca    Hispanica. 

1591. 
Perez,  A.  Peda(;os  de  Historica.   \s.  <z.] 
Perez  de  el  Christo.     Islas  de  Canaria. 

1679. 
Perez  de  Guzman.     Cronica.     1 5 17. 
Perez  de  Herrera.     Proverbios.     1733. 
Perez  de  Oliva.     Obras.     1 586. 
Perez,  Diego.     Siete  Romances.     1608. 
Perkins,W.  Catholico  Reformado.  1599. 
Petrarca,  F.     Sonetos,  &c.     1567. 
Philip  III.   Relacion  del  Aparato.  1599. 
Philip  IV.     Relacion  Verdadera.    160S. 
Philip  v.,    Primera  Relacion  de.    1700. 
Piedrabuena,   A.  de.     Vniversidad   de 

Amor.     1642. 
Piedrahita,  L.  F.    Historia  de  Granada. 

1689. 
Pierres  de  Provenza.     1526. 
Poesias  Varias.     1704-7. 
Policisne,  Historia  famosa.     1602. 
Polo,  Caspar.    Diana  enamorada.   1577. 
Pulgar,  F.  de.    Los  claros  varones  de  Ks- 

paiia.     1545. 
Question  de  Amor.     1533. 
(2uevedo,  F.  de.    Obras.     1772. 
Quifiones,J.  DiscursocontralosGitanos. 

1631. 
Quintana,  M.  J.    Poesias  selectas.  1807. 
Rasgos  del  Ocio.     1661. 
Recio  de  Leon,  J.    Peligros  del  camino, 

&c.     [1626.] 
Refranes  Glosada.     1524. 
Regla  Christiana  breve.     1547. 
Relacion.   [16  diiiferent  works  under  this 

heading.] 
Ribas,  A.  P.  de.     Triumphos  de  la  Fe. 

1645- 
Ribeyro,  B.  Historia  de  Menina.  1554. 
Rincon,  A.  del.  Arte  Me.xicana.  1595. 
Rio,  Diego  del.  Una  Boda,  &c.  1607. 
Roberto  el  Diablo.  1607. 
Rodriguez,  D.  Tres  Romances.  1607. 
Rodriguez,  L.     Romancero  historiado. 

1581. 


Spanish  Books,  various — continued. 
Rodriguez,  M.    Missiones  de  los  May- 

nas.     \s.  a.] 
Romancero.    Cancionero  de  Romances. 

[..  a.] 
Romancero.    Cancionero  de  Romances. 

[■555.] 
Romancero  General.     1604. 
Romances  de  Germania.     1644. 
Romances  varios.     1688. 

„  Siete  Romances.     1546. 

„  Tres  Romances.     \s.  a.] 

„  Dos  Romances.     \s.  a.] 

„  Dos  Romances,     [s.  a.] 

„  Romance  del  MoroCalaynos. 

[..  «.] 
Romances.     Romance    del    Conde  de 

Montalvan.      [s.  a.] 
Romances.     Romance  del   Rey  Moro. 

[s.  a.] 
Romances.  Canciones  y  viUancicos,  &c. 

[s.  a.] 
Romances.    Quatro  Romances.     1607. 

„  Dos  Romances.     1607. 

Rondalla  de  Rondalles.     1776. 
Roselao  de  Grecia.     1 547. 
Ruiz,  Ant.    Conquista  Espiritual.  1639. 
Sahagum.  Noticias  Mexicanas.    [1730.] 
Salas  Barbadillo.    El  sagaz  estacio,  &c. 

1620. 
Salazar,  D.  de.    Tratado  de  Re  Militari. 

1536. 
Sallustio.     1772. 

Salmeron,  Marq.  de.    Romance,   [s.  a.] 
Sanchez  de  la  Torre.     Vida  del  Her- 

mano,  &c.     1607. 
Sanchez,]. A.  Poesias  Castellaiias.  1779. 
Sancta  Cruz.    Floreta  Espafiola.    1698. 
San  Pedro.     Carcel  de  Amor.     1516. 
Santa  Cruz.     Comercio  suelto.     1732. 
Sapiencia,0.  Tratado  de  Turquia.  1622. 
Savonarola,  H.      Obras.      [s.  a.] 
Segura,  J.de.  Processo  de  cartas.  1548. 

))  )>  jj  j>         ^553* 

Sepulveda,  L.  de.    Romances.     1551. 
,,  1566. 

1580. 
Silva.     Sylva  de  Romances.     1611. 
Silva,  F.  de.   Segunda  Celestina.  1536. 

,,  „  ,.         1550- 

Silva,  R.  M.     Vida  de  Nuiio  Alvarez 
Percy  ra.     1640. 


INDEX. 


1821 


Spanish  Books,  various — continneii. 
Silva,   R.    M.      Parangon   de    los   dos 

Croniueles.     1657. 
Somoga  &  (2uiroga.     [Three  tracts.] 
Spanish  America.     1643,  iS:c. 
Spanish  Armada.    Relacio,  &c.    [s.  a.} 
„  „  Asserte  ragioni,  &c. 

1593- 

Spanish  Grammar.  Util,  y  breve  insti- 
tution.    1555. 

Spanish  Poetry.      [Two  tracts.]      1607. 

Spanish  Popular  Literature.  [Tracts 
in  3  vols.] 

Tablante  de  Ricamonte.     1513. 

,,  ..  1564- 

Teixeira,  P.     Relaciones.     1610. 

Testamento  Nuevo.     1543. 

1556. 

„  ,.  1596. 

Testamento  de  Christo.     1607. 

Thomas  de  los  Angeles.  Relacion.  160S. 
„  „         „         Verdadera    Re- 

lacion.    i6og. 

Timoneda,  J.  de.  Moro  Abindarraez. 
[1606.] 

Timoneda,  J.  de.    Quatro  obras.     1607. 

Torquemada,  J.  de.  Monarchia  In- 
diana.    1723. 

Torre,  A.  de  la.  Vision  delectable. 
[s.  a.] 

Totanes,  S.  de.    Manual  Tagalog.   1745. 

Tractado  de  la  Vida.     1499. 

Tungano.     Historia.     1526. 

Ubeda,  F.  de.    La  Picara  Justina.  1608. 

UUoa,  H.  de.  Successo  de  la  Jornada. 
1562. 

Ulloa,  A.  de.   Relacion  Historica.  1748. 

Ulloa  Pereira.     Obras.     1674. 

Valera,  C.  de.     Dos  tratados.     1599. 

Valera,  D.     Cronica.     1482. 

Valeria,  G.  A.  de.  Enganos  desenga- 
nados.     1681. 

Vargas,  T.  T.  de.  Restauracion  de 
Salvador.     1628. 

Varthema,  L.     Itinerario.     1520. 

Vazquez  de  Murcia.  Passion  de  Christo. 
1600. 

Vega,  Lope  de.     Arcadia.     1617. 

„  „  Corona  Tragica.   1637. 

Venegas,  M.   Noticia  de  la  California. 

1757- 
Verdadera  Relacion.     1608. 

10 


Spanish  Books,  various— c<7;///«af^. 
Verissima  Relacion.     1609. 
Viage  desde  el  Callao.     M  S. 
Villagra,  G.   de.      Hist,  de   la  Nueva 

Mexico.     1610. 
Villalon,  C.  de.     Tratado  de  Cambios. 

1546. 
Villalva  de  Rey.     1706. 
Witchcraft.     Notable  relacion.     1607. 

„  Obra  nueva.     1609. 

Xerez,    F.    de.      Conquista   del    Peru. 

[s.  l.  71.  rt.j 

Xerez,  F.  de.     Libro  primo  de  la  con- 
quista del  Peru.     1535. 
Ximenez,  P.     Luzero  de  la  vida  Chris- 
tiana.    1543. 
Yepes,  D.  de.     Persecucion  dc  Ingla- 

terra.     1599. 
Zavaleta,  J.  de.    Eldiade  Fiesta.    1654. 
Zayas.    Novelas  Amorosas.     1659. 
Zuniga,  M.    de.     Las  Islas   Philipinas. 
1803. 
Spanish  Armada. 

Ward,  J.  Deo  trin-uni,  &c.     162 1. 
Sprotti,  T.     Chronica,     v.  Hearne. 
Staffordshire. 

Plot,  R.    History  of  Staffordshire.    1686. 

Shaw,  S.     Hist,  of  Staffordshire.     1789. 

Stage  Plav.s,  v.  Ordinance  to  suppress. 

1647. 
Steamship,    v.  Hulls. 
Stockholm,   v.  Reynard  the  Fox.   1621. 
Stonehenge.     v.  Jones,  Inigo. 
Stoop,    Roderigo,     Engravings    by.     v. 

Catherine  of  Braganza. 
Suffolk. 
Gage,  J.     History  of  Hengrave.     1822. 
„  History  of  Thingoe  Hundred. 

1838. 
Gillingwater,  E.     History  of  Lowestoft. 

[1790.1 
Hawkins,  W.    Apollo  Shroving.  [1627.] 
Suckling,  A.  History  of  Suffolk.  1846-8. 
Surrey. 
Aubrey,  J.     History  of  Surrey.     1719. 
Brayleyand  Britton.  History  of  Surrey. 

1 841.     V.  Appendix. 
Manning  and  Bray.   History  of  Surrey. 
1804-14. 
Sussex. 

Dallaway,  J.   Hist,  of  Sussex.    1815-32. 
Horsfield,  T.  W.    Hist,  of  Sussex.  1835. 
N 


lS2Z 


INDEX. 


Taverner,  R.   Sermons  on  the  Epistles, 

&c.     V.  Epistles. 
Tears  of  the  Beloved,     v.  Markham. 
Textus  Roffensis.     v.  Hearne. 
Tho.mas   de   Elmham.  Vita    Henrici  V. 

V.  Hearne. 
Thurnierbuch.     v.  Ruxner. 
Tin  Livii  Foro-Juliensis.  Vita  Henrici  V. 

V.  Hearne. 
Tobacco. 

Brathwait,  R.  The  smoaking  age.  1617. 

;>  ))  )i  11      I703- 

Deacon,  J.     Tobacco  tortured.     1616. 
Everard,  .^.  De  Herba  Panacea.  1644. 

„  Panacea.     1659. 

PauUus,  S.     Comment,  de  abusu  Ta- 

baci.     1665. 
Spooner,  L.  Looking-glass  for  smokers. 

1703. 
Taylor,  J.     Nipping  of  Abuses.     1614. 
Thorius,  R.     Hymnus  Tabaci.     1651. 
Tobacco,  Defence  of.     1602. 

„         Ordinance  on.     1644. 
Wine,  Beere,  Ale,  and  Tobacco.     1630. 
Worke  for  Chimny-Sweepers.     1602. 
Tobago. 

Poyntz,  J.     Prospect  of  Tobago.     1695. 
Rochefort,  C.  de.     Tableau  de  Tobago. 

1665. 
Topography. 
Atkyns,  R.     Gloucestershire.     1712. 
Aubrey,  J.     Surrey.     1719. 
Baines,  E.  History  of  Lancashire.   1836. 

V.  Appendix. 
Baker,  G.   Northamptonshire.    1822-41. 
Blore,  T.*"'  Rutland.     181 1. 
Bourne,  H.    Ne\vcastle-on-Tyne.    1736. 
Brayley  and  Britton's  Surrey.    1841.    v. 

Appendix: 
Burton,  W.      Leicestershire.     1622. 
Chauncy,  H.     Hertfordshire.     1700. 
Collinson,  J.     Somerset.     1791. 
Dallaway,J.  History  of  Sussex.  1815-32. 
Dicey,  T.     Hist,  of  Guernsey.      1751. 
Drake,  F.    History  of  the  City  of  York. 

1736. 
Dugdale,  W.    Monasticon  Anglicanum. 

1615-83. 
Dugdale,  W.     Antiquities  of  Warwick- 
shire.    1656. 
Dugdale,  W.    Antiquities  of  Wanvick- 

shire.     1730. 


Topograph  Y—eoniinued. 

Dugdale,  W.  History  of  S.  Paul's  Cathe- 
dral.    1658. 

Dugdale,  W.  History  of  S.  Paul's  Cathe- 
dral.    1 7 10. 

Ellis,  Sir  H.    Hist,  of  Shoreditch.    1798. 

Gage,  J.    History  of  Hengrave.    1822. 
„         History  of  Thingoe  Hundred. 
1838. 

Gough,    R.      Sepulchral     Monuments. 
1776-96. 

Gregson,  M.     Portfolio  of  Fragments. 
1824. 

Hals,  W.    History  of  Cornwall.    [1750.] 

Hasted,  E.     Histor)' of  Kent.     1778-99. 

Hitchins,  F.  History  of  Cornwall.   1824. 
2  vols. 

Hoare,  R.     History  of  Wilts.     1812-52. 

Hodgson,  J.     History  of  Northumber- 
land.    1820-52. 

Horsfield,  T.  W.  Hist,  of  Sussex.  1835. 

Horsley,  J.     Britannia  Romana.     1732. 

Hunter,  J.     Hallamshire.     1819. 
„  South  Yorkshire.     1828. 

Hutchins,  J.    History  of  Dorset.    1796- 
1815. 

Kennett,    Bp.      Parochial    Antiquities. 
1695. 

Kilburne,  R.     Survey  of  Kent.     1659. 

King,  D.   The  Vale  Royall  of  England. 
1656. 

Kip,  J.   Nouveau  Theatre  de  la  Grande 
Bretagne.     17 15. 

Lambarde,  W.   Perambulation  of  Kent. 
1576. 

Lambarde,  W.   Perambulation  of  Kent. 
1596. 

Lambarde,  W.   Perambulation  of  Kent. 
1656. 

Lipscomb,  Geo.    Hist,  of  Bucks.    1847. 

Lynn,  Wisbeach,  &c.,  N  avigation.  [  1 720.] 

Lysons,  D.    Environs  of  London.    1800. 

Manning  and  Bray.    History  of  Surrey. 
1 804- 1 4. 

Manship,    H.     History    of    Yarmouth. 
1854-6. 

Midgley,  S.     History  of  Halifax.     17 12. 

Nelson,  J.     History  of  Islington.    181 1. 

Plot,  R.  Nat.  Hist,  of  Staffordshire.  1686. 
„      O.xfordshire.     1705. 

Pole,  J.     History  of  Windsor   Castle. 
1749-62. 


INDEX. 


1823 


Topography — continued. 

Raine,  J.  Antiquities  of  Durham.  1852. 
Shaw,  S.  History  of  Staffordshire.  1789- 

1801. 

Suckling,  A.  History  of  Suffolk.   1846-8. 

Surtees,  R.    History  of  Durham.     1816. 

Thoresby,  R.  Ducatus  Leodicnsis.  1715. 

„  „  „  1816. 

Nottinghamshira    1677. 

Views   in    Leicestershire. 


Thoroton,  R. 
Tlirosby,  J. 

1789-91. 
Upcott,  W. 


Bibliography.     1813. 
Whitaker,  J.  D.    Richmondshire.    1823. 
Toulouse  Dialect. 

Goudelin,  P.  Le  Ramelet  moundi.  1638. 
Trade. 

D.,  G.     A  letter  from  an  English  Mer- 
chant.    1695. 
Gee,  J.      Trade  and   Navigation  con- 
sidered.    1 73 1. 
Turkey. 
Adelphus,  J.     Die  Tiirckisch  Chronica. 

1513- 
Coeck,  P.     Turks  in  1534.     1873. 
Robertus  Monachus.     Itineraria  contra 

Turcos.     \s.  rt.] 
Sapiencia,  O.     Nuevo  Tratado  de  Tur- 

quia.     1622. 
Winchelsea,  Lord.     Embassy.     166 1. 
Tyll  Owleglasse.     v.  Eulenspiegel. 
Typography. 

Ames,  J.     Typographical   Antiquities. 

1785-90. 
Ames,  J.     Typographical    Antiquities, 

edited  by  Dibdin.     1810-19. 
Atkyns,  R.     History  of  Printing.    1664. 
Panzer,  G.  \V.    Annales  Typographicae. 

1 793- 1 803. 
Panzer,  G.  W.     Annalen.     1788-1805. 
Watson,  J.    History  of  Printing.     1713. 
Weigel,  T.  O.    Anfange  der  Drucker- 

kunst.     1866. 

Ulfila.     Evangelia  Gothic^.     1571.     v. 
Testament. 

Vaudois. 

Morland,   S.     Churches   of  Piedmont. 
1658. 

Valtelline. 
Vocabularies. 

Eychman  von  Calwe. 


Vocw.MX.K-MV.'i— continued. 

Mure,  C.  de.  Repertorium  Vocab.  \s.a:\ 
Verantius,  F.     Dictionarium.     1595. 
Vocabularivmi.    [Various  editions.] 
Vox  Clamantis.     v.  A.,  P. 
Voyages  and  Travels. 
Acuna,  C.  de.     Rio  de  las  Amazonas. 

1641. 
B.,  I.     Algiers  Voyage.     1621. 
Balbi.  Viaggiodeir  Indie  Oriental!.  1590. 
Beauveau,  H.  de.     Voyage  du  Ldvant. 

1608. 
Bicker,  L.     Voyagie  na  Rio  la  Plata. 

1603. 
Biet,  A.     Voyage  en  Cayenne.     1664. 
Boullaye  le  Gouz.     Voyages.     1653. 
Breydenbach.     Itinerarium.     i486. 

;.  „  in  German. 

i486. 
Broecke,  P.  van  den.     Korte  historiael. 

1634. 
Brouwer,  H.     Journael.     1646. 
Burckhardt,  J.  L.     Various  works. 
Cartier,  J.     Voyage  en  1534.     1865. 
„  Relation  originale.     1867. 

„  Brefr^cit.     1867. 

„  Two  navigations.     1580. 

Cartwright,  J.    The  preacher's  travels. 

1611. 
Cavendish,  T.     Zee-vaerdt.     1 598. 
Champlain,  S.  de.    Voyages  en  la  Nou- 

velle  France.     1620. 
Colyn,    M. 

1619. 
Columbus. 


Oost-Indische   Voyagien. 

Epistola.    [Editio  princeps. 

[Editio  secunda. 

Reprint  of  the 

Reprint  of  the 


Epistola. 
Epistola. 


s.  a.\ 
Columbus. 

J.  a.\ 
Columbus. 

Spanish  version. 
Columbus.      Epistola. 

third  Latin  edition. 
Columbus.  Epistola.  In  German.  1497. 
Commelin,  I.  Voyages  in  Dutch.  1646. 
Coppier,  G.     Voyage  des  Indes  Occi- 

dentales.     1645. 
Cortes,  H.     Narratio.     1524. 

„  Tertia  narratio.     1524. 

„  De  Insulis.     1532. 

Coverte,  R.     True,  &c.,  report.     1614. 
Crowne,  \V.    Travels  of  Lord  Howard. 

1637. 


i824 


INDEX. 


Voyages  and  Travels — continued. 

Davies,  W.  True  Relation  of  Travailes. 
1614. 

De  Bry.    CoUectiones  peregrinationum. 
1590-1634. 

Delia  Valle,  Travels  of.    1665. 

De  Vries.     Korte  Historiael.     1655. 
„  „    translated.  1853. 

Drake,  Sir  F.     Expeditio.     1588. 
„        „  Summarie  and  true  dis- 

course.    1589. 

Drake,  Sir  F.  True  copy  of  a  discourse. 
1589. 

Drake,  Sir  F.  Ephemeris  Expeditionis 
Norreysii,  &c.     1589. 

Drake,  Sir  F.     Brevis  et  fida  narratio. 
1590. 

Drake,  Sir  F.     Sir   Francis  Drake  re- 
vived.     1626. 

Drake,  Sir  F.  The  world  encompassed. 

1635- 
Drake,  Sir  F.     Sir  F.  Drake  revived. 

1653- 
Drake,  Sir  F.     Voyage  curieux.     1641. 

„        „  Journalen  van  drie  Voy- 

agien.     1643. 
Dralsd.    Relation    de   divers   voyages. 

1718. 
Dunton,  J.     Journal  of  the  Sally  Fleet. 

1637. 
Ehingen,  Geo.  von.    Itinerarium.    1600. 
Federici,  Cesare  dei.  Viaggio  nell'lndia. 

1587. 
Feynes,  Sr.  de.     \^oyage  a   la   Chine. 

1630. 
Frobisher,  M.  Schiffart  gegen  West,  &c. 

1580. 
Frobisher,  M.     Navigatio   in  regiones 

occidentis,  &c.     1580. 
Gesta    proxime  per    Portugalenses   in 

India,  &c.     1506. 
Gesta   proxime    per   Portugalenses    in 

India,  &c.     Nwemb.     1507. 
Gesta   proxime    per    Portugalenses    in 

India,  &c.     Colon.     1 507. 
Godinho,  M.  Relaqao  de  novo  caminho. 

1665. 
Groot,  J.  J.  Reys  in  Greenland.  [1778.] 
Hakluyt,  R.   Collect,  of  Voyages.    1 589. 
„  „  „  1598-1600. 

Hamel,  H.    Joumael.     1668. 
Hariot,  T.     Virginia.     1588. 


Voyages  and  Travels — continued. 

Hariot,  J.    Virginia.     In  French.     1590. 
Hartgerts,  J.     Oost   en    Westindische 

Voyagien.     1648. 
Hawkins,  Sir  R.  Voyage  to  the  South 

Sea.     1622. 
Helffrich,  J.     Reis  aus   Venedig  nach 

Jerusalem.     1579. 
Hentzner,  P.     Itinerarium.     1612. 
Herbert,  Sir  T.     Travels.     1677. 
Heremite,  J.  L'.     Journael.     1626. 
Historiale  van  de   Reyse  de   Cornells 

Matelief.     1608. 
Houtnian,  C.  de.  Reyse,  &c.     1597. 
..  .,  »  1598. 

„  „      Diarium.     1598. 

..  >,  »  1598. 

„  „      Journal.       1598. 

Hudson,  H.     Descriptio,  &c.     1612. 
..  ,.  „        1613. 

Hulsius,  L.  26  Schiffahrten.   1598-1650. 
James,  Thos.  Voyage  to  the  South  Sea. 

1633- 
Jobson,  R.  The  Golden  Trade.     1623. 
Josselyn,  J.   Two  Voyages  to  New  Eng- 
land.    1674. 
Journael  van  de  Legatie.     1627,  1632. 
Journael  op's  Lants  Schip,  &c.     1665. 
Joutel.    Voyage  de  M.  de  la  Sale.    1713. 
Justice,  Eliz.     Voyage  to  Russia.    1739. 
Lavender,  T.     Travels  of  four  English- 
men.    :6i2. 
Lawson,  J.    Voyage  to  Carolina.    1709. 
Leeven  der  Zee-Helden.     1676. 
Levett,  C.     Voyage  to  New  Eng.    1628. 
Linschoten,  J.  H.     Itinerario.     1595-6. 
„  „         Navigatio.    1599. 

„  „         Voyages.       1598. 

„  „         Voyagie.       1601. 

„  „        Voyasie.        1624. 

Lithgow,  W.     Peregrinations.     1614. 

1632. 
Lodewijcksz,  W.     D'Erste  Boeck,  &c. 

1598. 
Lodewijcksz,  W.     D'Erste  Boeck,  &c. 

1609. 
Lodewijcksz,  W.  Prima  Pars,  &c.  1598. 
»  )>  I!        1614. 

„  „     Premier  livre,    &c. 

1 598,  &c. 
Ludolphus  de  Suchen.  Iter  ad  Terram 
Sanctam.     MS. 


INDEX. 


1825 


Voyages  and  Travels — continued. 
Ludolphus  de  Suchen.  Iter  ad  Terram 

Sanctam.     \s.  «.] 
M.,  R.  Voyage  to  linenos  Ayres.    17 16. 
MandeviUe,  J.     Itinerarius.     [s.  a.] 

„  „    In  Italian.  1480. 

I5'7. 
„  „   In  German.  14S3. 

„  „  In  English.  1612. 

),  )>  »         •684- 

„  ,.         1722. 

?)  j»  »        ^/^S" 

,,  ,,        .,      1839- 

„  „  „       1866. 

Marco  Polo.     Italian.     1496. 
„  ,,  1508. 

„  Latin.     \s.  «.] 

„  Portuguese.     1502. 

„  French.     1556. 

Martens,  F.  Spitzbergische  Reise.  1675. 
Martini^re,  B.  de  la.     Voyage  des  Pais 

Septentrionales.     1671. 

Martyr,  P.  De  orbe  novo  decades.  15 16. 

,,  »  ,.  I533- 

»  n  »  '587- 

„         Decades  of  the  New  World. 

1555- 
Martyr,  P.  Decades  of  the  New  World. 

1577- 
Martyr,  P.   Decades  of  the  New  World. 

1612. 
Martyr,  P.  Decades  of  the  New  World. 

[n.  d.] 
Martyr,  P.     Historia  delle  Indie  Occi- 

dentali,  &c.     1534. 
Matelief,  C.     Reyse.     1608. 

„  Breeder  Verhael.     1608. 

Matthews,  J.     Voyage  to  Sierra  Leone. 

1788. 
Maundrell,  H.     Journey  from  Aleppo. 

1749- 
Maximilianus  Transyl.  de  Moluccis  In- 

sulis.     1523. 
Maximilianus         „  „      1524. 

Mayerberg.    Iter  in  Moschoviam.   1670. 
Misson,  M.  Voyage  en  Angleterre.  1698. 

„  Voyage  d'ltalie.     1702. 

Mooy,  M.  Reize  naar  Greenland.  1787. 
Moryson,  F.    Itinerary.    1617. 
Neck,  J.  C.    Journael.    1601. 

„  „  1608. 

Nicholay,  N.     Navigations.     1585. 


Voyages  and  Travels — continued. 

Nicolai,  E.    Newe  Relation,  S:c.     1619. 
Nieuhoff,  J.  Brasil.    Zee  en  Lant-Reize. 

1682. 
Nieuhoff,  J.    Brasil.  Zee  en  Lant-Reize. 

1682. 
Nodal,  G.  de.     Relacion  del  Viage,  &c. 

1621. 
Pelsert,  F.  Ongeluckige  Voyagie.  1647. 
Pigafetta,  F.  Relatione  di  Congo.  1591. 

,,  Report  of  Congo.    1 597. 

Pinto,  F.     Voyages.     1692. 
Purchas  his  Pilgrimes.     1625-6. 

„  ,,  In  Dutch.     1655. 

Quir,  F.  de.  Terra  Australis  incog.  161 7. 
Ramusio,  G.  B.  Navigationi.  1583-1606. 
Recentes  Novis  Orbi  Historian.     1612. 
Reining,  J.  E.     Reisen  in  de  West  In- 

dien.     1691. 
Rosmital.     Itinerarius.     1577. 
Schmidel,  H.    Vera  Historia.     1599. 
Schouten,  G.  C.     Diarium.     1619. 

„  „  Journal.     1619. 

Sherley,  A.     Travels  in  Persia.     1613. 
Shipton,  W.     Dia.     A  Poem.     1659. 
Smith,  J.     True  Travels.     1630. 
Smith,  T.     Voiage  into  Russia.     1605. 
Spilbergen,  J.  van.     Journael.     1601. 
!.  )i  »  '605- 

I,  »  1,  1605. 

,1  „  >,  '605. 

„  „  Newe    Schiffahrt. 

1605. 
Spilbergen,  J.  van.  Oost  &  W.  Indische 

Spiegel.     1 61 9. 
Spilbergen,  J.  van.  Oost  &  W.  Indische 

Spiegel.     1619. 
Spilbergen,  J.  van.  Oost  &  W.  Indische 

Spiegel.     1 62 1. 
Spilbergen,  J.  van.  Oost&  W.  Indische 

Spiegel.     1621. 
Spilbergen,J.  van.  Speculum  Orientalis. 

1619. 
Spilbergen,  J.  van.     Miroir.     1621. 
Staden,    Hans.      Warhafftig   Historia. 

\o.j:\ 

Terry,  E.     Voyage  to  E.  India.     1655. 
Thevenot,    M.      Relations    de    divers 

Voyages.     1663-72. 
Thdvenot,  M.  Recueilde  Voyages.  1681. 
Timberlake,  H.     Travailes  of  English 

Pilgrims.     1620. 


1 826 


INDEX. 


Voyages  and  Ix^-vA'i— continued. 
Uchteritz,  H.  v.     Kurze  Reise.     1705. 
Varthema,  L.     Itinerario.     1518. 

„  „  [Spanish.] 

1520. 
Varthema,  L.     Itinerarius.     \j. «.] 

„  Ritterlich  Raysz.    1515. 

Veer,G.  de.  Waerachtige  Beschryvinghe. 

1598. 
Veer.G.  de.  Waerachtige  Beschr)'vinghe. 

1599- 
Veer,  G.  de.     Tre  Navigationi.     1599. 
Vesputius.     Mundus  Novus.     \s.  a.\ 
„  „  „  [-f-  "■] 

„  ..  ),  1504- 

,,  „      New  gefunden  re- 

gion,    [fl.j.] 
Vesputius.     De  Ora  antarctica.     1505. 
„  Disz    Bijchlin    saget,    &c. 

1509. 
Vesputius.     Paesi  nouamente  ritrovati. 

1507. 
Vesputius.     Paesi  nouamente  ritrovati. 

1517. 
Vesputius.     Paesi  nouamente  ritrovati. 

1519- 
Vesputius.       Itinerarium     Portugallen- 

sium.     1508. 
Vesputius.    Le  Nouveau  Monde,    [s.  </.] 
,,  Newe  unbekandte  Landte. 

1508. 
Viage  desde  el  Callab.     MS. 
Viaggi  fatti  da  Venetia.     1543. 

u  »  V  1545- 

Viaggio  fatto  dagli  Spagniuoli.     1536. 
Viaggio  da  Venetia  al  S.  Sepolcro.  1 5 1 8. 
Viaggio    da   Venetia    al   S.    Sepolcro. 

1538- 

Voyages  of  the  Dutch  East  India  Com- 
pany.    1646. 

Voyages  en  Afrique,  &c.     1674. 

Voyagien  van  Sanderson  en  Timberly. 
1678. 

Weerdt,  S.  de.  Wijdtloopigh  Verhael. 
1600. 

Weerdt,  S.  de.  Wijdtloopigh  Verhael. 
1617. 

Wales. 

Lloyd,  H.     History  of  Cambria.     1584. 
Penri,  J.     View  of  Publike  Wants,  &c. 
1861. 


Wales — continued. 

Powell,  V.  Strena  Vavasoriensis.   1654. 
South   Wales.      Humble  acknowledg- 
ment, &c.     1650. 
South  Wales.     Humble  representation. 

1656. 
Welshman's  Answer.     1641. 

„  Protestation.     1641. 

„  Last  Petition.     1641. 

„  Warning  Piece.     1642. 

„  New  Almanack.     1643. 

„  Valiant  Welshman.     1663. 

Williams, W.  The  Mysterieof  Iniquitie. 
1655. 
Warmstry,  T.     Vindication  of  Christ's 

Nativity,     v.  Christmas. 
Warwickshire. 

Dugdale's  History.     1656. 

,>  ,.  1730- 

Washington,  A  book  from  his  library. 

v.  Trumball. 
Weiss  Kunig.    v.  Treitsaurwein. 
Welt  Kugel.    v.  Vesputius. 
Westminster  Abbey. 

CruU,  J.     Antiquities  of  St.  Peter's  Ch. 

1722. 
Dart,  J.     Westmonasterium.     [1723.] 
Westmoreland. 

Nicolson,  J.     Hist,   of  Cumberland  & 
Westmoreland.     1777. 
Whale  Fishery,    v.  Pietersz. 
Whiston's  Primitive  Testament,    v.  Tes- 
tament. 
Whittington,  Sir  R. 

H.,  T.     The  famous  History  of  Sir  R. 
Whittington.     [1680.] 
Wvckliffe,  John.    v.  Lewis. 
William  ofWykeham.    v.  Lowth. 
Wiltshire. 

Hoare,  R.     History  of  Wilts.     1812-52. 
Wine. 
Abell.    A  Dialogue.     1641. 
Ames.     Search  after  Claret.     1691. 
„         Further  Search.     1691. 
„         Last  Search.     1691. 
Baccius.     Historia  de  natura  Vinorum. 

1596. 
Charleton,  W.     Two  discourses.     1692. 
True  Discovery.     1641. 
Turner,  W.  New  Book  of  Wines.   156S. 
Vintners. 
Whitaker,  T.  Blood  of  the  Grape.  1654. 


INDEX. 


1827 


Winifred,   St.     v.   Robert    of  Shrews- 
bury. 
Witchcraft. 

Ady,  T.     A  Candle  in  the  Dark.     1656. 
Basinus.     Tract,  de  magicis.     1483. 
Baxter,  R.     World  of  Spirits.     1691. 
Bekker.    Le  Monde  enchant^.     1694. 
Boguet,  H.  Discours  des  Sorciers.  1603. 
Bouvet,   Le  Sr.      Crimes  et  sortildges. 

1659. 
Dana.His,  L.   Dialogue  of  Witches.  1575. 
Deacon,  J.    Dialogical  discourse.   1601. 

V.  Appendix. 
Deacon,  J.     Summarie  Answer.     1601. 

V.  Appendix. 
Doctor  Lamb's  Darling.     1653. 
F.,  H.    Examination  and  Confession  of 

Witches.     1645. 
Farmvorth,R.  Witchcraft  cast  out.  1655. 
Fian,  Doctor.     Life  of     [1592-] 
Gaule,  J.  Cases  of  Conscience  touching 

Witches.     1646. 
Giffard,  G.     Discourse  of  subtil  prac- 
tises.    1587. 
Giffard,    G.      A    Dialogue    concerning 

Witches.     1603. 
Hochstrat,  J.     Tractatus.     15 10. 
Hopkins,   M.      Discovery   of  Witches. 

1647. 
Hutchinson,  F.     Essay  on  Witchcraft. 

1720. 
James  I.     Demonology.     1597. 
1603. 
Mather,  C.     Wonders  of  the  Invisible 

World.     1693. 
Mather,  C.     Batteries  on  the  Kingdom 

of  the  Devil.     1695. 
Molitor,  U.     De  Laniis,  &c.     \s.  a.] 


P.,  W.     History  of  Witches.     [1750.] 
Perkins,  W.     Art  of  Witchcraft.     1608. 
Perreaud,  F.     Ddmonologie.     1563. 

„  Divel  of  Mascon.     1679. 

Potts,  T.    Discovery  of  Witches.    1613. 
Sadducismus  Debellatus.     1698. 
Scot,  R.  Discovery  of  Witchcraft.   1654. 
Webster,  J.     Displaying  of  Witchcraft. 

1677- 
Williford,  Examination  of,  &c.     1645. 
Witchcraft. 
Witches. 


Wit's  Labyrinth,    v.  S.,  J. 
WoLSEV,  Cardinal,     v.  Cavendish. 

„  „  V.  Storcr. 

Women. 

Bergomensis,  J.     De  Claris  mulieribus 

1497- 
Boccaccio,  J.  De  Claris  mulieribus.  1473. 

ji  »  I)  >487- 

H.,J.  Astrangewonderinawoman.  1642. 

H.,  N.     The  Ladies  Dictionary.      1694. 

Heywood,  T.  History  of  Women.   1624. 

„  Lives    of    Nine    Worthy 

women.     1640. 
Heywood,  T.  History  of  Women.   1657. 
Now  or  never.  Or  New  Parliament  of 

Women.     1656. 
Swetnam  the  Woman  Hater.     1620. 
Worming  of  a  Mad  Dog.     1617. 
WoODCUT.s,   Books  illustrated  with.     See 

also  Block  Books. 
Abrdgd  de  I'histoire  Franqoise.     1585. 
Adelphus,  J.     Die  TUrkisch  Chronica. 

i5>3- 
Adelphus,  J.     Barbarossa.    1520. 
yEsopus  Fabulae.     \s.  «.] 


1501- 
„  „  Italian.     1508. 

„  „  \s.  a.]     v.  Appendix. 

„  „  Spanish.     1521. 

Alardus  Amstelr.    Passio  Domini.  1523. 

Alciatus  Emblemata.  Aug.  Vind.  1531. 

»  II  II  '534- 

„  „  Paris.     1542. 

„  „  Lugduni.     1544. 

„  ,,  In  French.   1536. 

Altdorfer,  A.     [Fall  and  Redemption.] 

\_s.  a:\ 
Amman,  Jobst.  Various  Works.  1569-99. 
Antithesis  Christi  et  Antichristi.    Diffe- 
rent editions  in  Latin  and  German. 
ArsMoriendi.  Arte  del  ben  morire.  [j-. «.] 
Ars  Moriendi.   Judicio  de  Jesu  Christo. 

is.  «.] 
Auerswald,  F.  von.  Ringer  Kunst.  1539. 
Bambergische    halszgerichts    ordnung. 

1507. 
Bamberg,  Heylthumbs  zu.     1509. 
Becker,  R.  Z.  Gravures  en  bois.  1S08-16. 
Beham.     Proporcion  der  Ross.     1528. 
„         Bibhcas  Historia.     1537. 


i828 


INDEX. 


Woodcuts,  Books  illustrated  with— ro;?/. 

Beham.     Biblicas  Historia.     \ii.  ^.] 
„  Typi  in  Apocalypsi.     1539. 

Bergomensis,  J.  P.  de  Claris  mulieribus. 
1497. 

Bertaudus,  J.    Encomium  trium  Maria- 
rum.     1529. 

Bewick's  Works.     1 790-1 821. 

Beza.     Icones.     1580. 

Bibles  in  German. 

Blarrorivus,  P.     Nanceidos.     15 18. 

Boccaccio,  J.  de  claris  mulieribus.   1473. 

»  »  »  1487- 

„        des  nobles  malheureux.  \s.  </.] 

Bonaventura.  Devote  Meditationi.  1487. 

;.  II  II  1489- 

„  Life   of    Christ.     Caxton. 

Bonaventura.   Life  of  Christ.    1525. 

„  „  „         in  Dutch. 

[1498.] 
Bonaventura.     Other  pieces  in  Dutch. 
„  Life   of  St.  Francis  in 

German.     15 12. 
Brandon.     St.  Brandons  leben.     15 10. 
Brandt,  B.     Volkummer   Begriff,   Slc. 

[«.  rf.] 
Brandt,  S.  Stultifera  navis.  Basil.  1497. 
,,  „  „  Argeiit.\\^T. 

1498. 
„  „  1506. 

„  „  in  low  German. 

1 5 19. 
Brandt,  S.     Ship  of  Fools.     1508. 

,,  1,  „         1570- 

„  He.xastichon.     1502. 

Branteghem,  G.  de.  Vita  Christi.  1537. 
Breydenbach.     Itinerarium.     i486. 

„  Reise.     i486. 

Brugman,  J.     Vita  Lydwine.     1498. 
Burgkmaier,H.  TriomphedeMax.  1796. 
„  Images  des  Saints.   1799. 

Caoursin,  G.     Obsidio  Rhodie.     1496. 

„  Stabilimenta.     1496. 

Celestina.  Ain  hipsche  Tragedia.  1520. 
Cicero.     Officia.     1531. 
Columna,  F.    Hypnerotomachia.    1499. 
„  Hypnerotomachic.    1561. 

Concilium  Buch.     1483. 
Cranach,   L.     Das   Symbolum.     1539. 

V.  Appendix. 
Cranmer's  Catechism.     1548. 


Woodcuts,  Books  illustrated  wkh— con/. 
Cyrillus.  Buchder  naturlichen  weissheit. 

1490. 

Defensorium  Virginitatis  Mariae.  [s.  a.] 

»  >,  I,       [s.a:\ 

»  ).  »       [-f-  «•] 

Deutsch  Marial.     1516. 

DialogusCreaturarumMoralizatus.  1480. 

II  II  „  1509- 

Dialogues  of  Creatures  moralised.  \s.a.'\ 
Dietenberger,  J.     Catechismus.     1545. 
Dupuys,  R.     Entrde  de  Charles  Prince 

d'Espaigne.     151 5. 
Diirer,  A.     Passione  di  Giesu  Christo. 

1612. 
Diirer,  A.     Ehrenpforte.     1799. 
Epistole  e  Evangelii.     1512. 
Epitome  Chronicorum.     1533. 
Erklerung  der  XII  Artickel.     1485. 
Etterlyn,  P.     Kronica.     1507. 
Eulenspiegel.     1532. 

„  Ulularum       Speculum. 

1563- 
Eulenspiegel.  Noctua?  .Speculum.   1567. 
Eyb,  A.  von.     Ob  ein  weib  zunemem. 

1540. 
Farley,  R.     Lychnocausia.     1638. 
„  Kalendarium.     1638. 

Fierabras.    Kurtzweilige  Histori.    1533. 
Figure  del  Vecchio  Testamento.    1554. 

II  !!  II  1574- 

Fior  di  Virtu.     15 19. 
Frezzi.     Ouatriregio.     1 508. 
Fuchs,  L.     New  Kreuterbuch.     1543. 
Gaistliche  vsslegong  des  lebens  Christi. 

[«.  d.-] 
Geistlich  Strass.     1521. 
Geschlechter-Buch.     1 580. 
Geyler,  J.     Navicula  Fatuorum.     151 1. 
„  Passio  Jesu  Christi.     [«.  (/.] 

„  Postill.     1522. 

Grapheus,  C.     Le  Triumphe  d'Anvers. 

1550. 
Heldenbuch.     1509. 
Hercules.  LexiifatichediHercole.  1568. 
History  of  the  Holy  Cross.     1483. 
Hofferus,  J.    Icones  Catecheseos.  1557. 

•558- 
Holbein,  H.     Historiarum  Veteris  In- 

strumenta  Icones.     1 538. 
Holbein,  H.     Historiarum  Veteris   In- 

strumenta  Icones.     1539. 


INDEX. 


1829 


Woodcuts,  Books  illustrated  with— ««/. 

Holbein,  H.  Retratas  de  las  Historias 
del  Testamento  Viejo.     1 543. 

Holbein,  H.  Retratas  de  las  Historias 
del  Testamento  Viejo.     1549. 

Holbein,  H.  Icones  Historian  Veteris 
Testamenti.     1547. 

Holbein,  H.  Images  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment.    1549. 

Holbein,  H.  Simulachres  de  la  Mort. 
1538- 

Holbein,  H.  Imagines  Mortis.     1545. 

..  ,.  „  '557- 

„         Simolachri  de  la  Morte.   1549. 
Horje  Beatx  Marian  Virginis.     1488. 

And  numerous  other  editions. 
Horatii  Opera.     1498. 
Hrosvita.     Opera.     1 500. 
Hug  Schapler.     1500. 
Hugode  Slestat.  Quadruvium  Ecclesia;. 

1504. 
Isenberg,  W.     Wie  die  mechtige  Erb- 

kiinigreich,  &c.     1520. 
Itinerarium  B.  Maris  Virg.    \s.  I.  et  a.] 
„  „  „        \s.  I.  et  a.] 

Josephus.    De  Imperatrice  Ratione,  &c. 

\_s.  a:\ 
Ketham,  Jo.  de.     Fasciculus  Medicinse. 

1500. 
Latour Landry.  RittervomThurn.  1519. 
Layen  Spiegel.     1509. 
Lichtenburger.     Prognosticatio.     [c/] 
„  „  latina. 

Lirer,  T.     Cronick.     i486. 

..  ,.        io.  y.] 

Lotarius.     1 5 14. 

Luther,  M.    Betbiichlin.     1522. 

„  Enchiridion.      1543. 

»  »  1 560. 

„  DasSymbolumderApostel. 

Mandevilla,  J.  von.     1483. 

Marees,    P.    de.       Beschryvinge    van 

Gunese.     1602. 
Meinradus.     Passio   Sancti   Meynradi. 

1496. 
Methodius,  S.     Revelationes.     1498. 
Mirabilia  Urbis  Romffi.     1507. 

..  „  ,.  'S'l- 

Molitor,  U.  De  laniis  et  phitonicis 
mulierum.    \s.  a!\ 

10 


Woodcuts,  Books  illustrated  with— ro«/- 
Molitor,   U.      De   laniis   et   phitonicis 

mulierum.     [.c.  rr.] 
Molitor,    U.      De   laniis  ct   phitonicis 

mulierum.     [.f.  «.] 
Moni,  J.     Quadrins  de  la  Bible.     1553. 

,,  Quadernosde  la  Bililia.   1553. 

„  Portraituresoftheliible.  1553. 

„  Figuren  aus  dcr  Bibel.    1564. 

Munster,  S.     Cosmographia.     1550. 
Murner,  T.    Logica  Memorativa.    1509. 
Newe  Kiinstliche  Figuren.     1620. 
Nicholay,  N.     Navigations.     1585. 
Nitschcwitz,H.  PsalteriumB.V.M.  1492. 
Opera  nova  contemplativa.     \s.  a.] 
Orus  Apollo  Niliacus.     1551. 
Ovidius.     Metamorphoseos.     1522. 

„  Transformaciones.     1595. 

„  Metamorphosis.      [German. J 

1545- 
Ovidius.     Metamorphoses.     1556. 
,,  „  [In  Dutch.] 

1557- 

Ovidius.  Metamorfoseo.     1559. 

„  Epistole.     1537. 

„  Das  buch  der  Hebe.     1484. 

Papacy.  Von  der  Erschrocklichen,  &c. 

[«./] 
Passio  Christi.     [1508.] 

„  „  Dy  passie  ons  heeren. 

Peacham,  H.    Minerva  Britanna.   1612. 
Pfintzing,  M.     Tewrdannckh.     15 17. 
PhilippusdeBarberiis.  Tractatus.  [^.  a.\ 
Picta  Poesis.     1552. 
Pinder,  U.     Passio  Christi.     1507. 
Promptuarius  Iconum.     1553. 
Rappresentationi.     1 554-1606. 
Reitter,  C.     Mortilogus.     1 508. 
Reusner,  C.     Contrafacturbuch.     1587. 
Reusner,  N.     Emblemata.     1581. 

„  Icones.     1587. 

„  Emblemata.     1591. 

Reynard  the  Fox.     1549. 
Ritterliche  Reutter  Kunst.     1584. 
Rodericus  Zamorensis.    Spiegel,    [o.  j.\ 
RUxner,G.  Anfang  des  Thuruiers.  1530. 
Sachsenheym,  H.  von.  Die  Morin.  1538. 
Salemonis  Glossa.  \s.  (z.] 
Sambucus,  J.     Emblemata.     1564. 
Sanctorum  Icones.     1551. 
Schat  der  Zielen.     1648. 


iSjo 


INDEX. 


Woodcuts,  Books  illustrated  with— ro;//. 
Schatzbehalter.     1491. 
Schaiiffelein,  H.  Vita  JesuChristi.  1537. 
„  Dansedesnoces.  1865. 

Schedel,  H.   Chronicon  Nuremb.   1493. 
Schildtberger.     \o.  y.] 
Schimpff  und  Ernst.     1535. 
Schopperus,  H.      Opus  poeticum,  &c. 

1567. 
Schopperus,  H.     Panoplia.     1568. 
Selen  Trost.     1483. 
Seven  Wise  Masters.     1480. 
Siben  Kurss.     1492. 
Siben  Laden.     1491. 
Siben  Todsiinden.     1474. 
Simeon,  G.  Observations  Antiques.  1558. 
Soils,  V.     Biblische  Figaren.     1560. 
Stimmer,  T.  Kunstliche  Figuren.   1576. 
Stumpff,J.  Heinrich  IV.  Historia.  1556. 
Terentius.     Comcediffi.     1496. 

„  Le  grant  Therence.     1539. 

Testament.     German.     [1522.] 
1523- 

»  ,.  1527. 

„  „  1528. 

»                   .,  1573- 

„                    „  Die  4  Evangel. 
1527. 

Testament.     Latin.  1553. 

Theramo,  J.  de.     Le  Procfes  de  Belial. 

1481. 

Theramo,  J.  de.     Zas  Buch  Belial  gen. 

1473- 
Thwrocz,  J.  de.     Clironicon  Hungaro- 

rum.     1488. 
Tor)',  G.     Champfleury.     1529. 
Treitsaurwein,  M.     Der  Weiss  Kiinig. 

1775- 
Troy.     Ein  hiibsche  histori.     15 10. 
Turbervile,   G.      Book   of  Faulconrie. 

1575- 
Valturius,  R.     De  re  militari.     1472. 
Vecellio,  C.     Habiti  Antichi.     1590. 

„  Corona  delle  Donne.  1625. 

Verdizotti,  G.  M.     Favole.     1 570. 


Woodcuts,  Books  illustrated  with— fo«/. 
Vergilius,  Polyd.   Von  der  erfindern  der 

dingen.     1537. 
Vigerius  Saonensis.     1507. 
Virdungus.     Prognosticon.     1559. 
Virgilius.     Opera.     \s.  a.] 
Wappen  des  Romischen  Reichs.    1545. 
Weida,  M. de.  Rosenkranz  Marie.  1515. 
Weigelius,   J.      Habitus    virorum,   &c. 

1639. 
Weigel,  T.  O.     Anfang  der  Drucker- 

kunst.     1 866. 
Wittenberg.     Dye  zaigung  des  Hailig- 

thumbs.     1509. 
Wolfgang,  S.     Vita.     1 5 16. 
Zeitglocklein.     1492. 
..  1493- 

,,  1495- 

..  ["•>■] 

There  are  many  other  books  illu  strated 
with  woodcuts  in  the  library,  but  only 
those  of  particular  importance  or  artistic 
interest  are  enumerated  in  this  list 
Worcester,  Book  printed  at. 

H.,  H.  Consultorie  for  Christians.  1549. 
Worcestershire. 

Barksdale.     Nympha  Libethris.     1651. 
Hemingi    Chartular.   Ecclesije   Wigor- 
nensis.     v.  Hearne. 
Work,  A,  for  none  but  Angels,  v.  Jenner. 
WOTTON,  Life  of.     V.  Walton. 

York,  Book  printed  at. 

London's  Warning  piece.     1643. 
Yorkshire. 

Drake,  F.    History  of  the  City  of  York. 

1736. 
Hunter,  J.     Hallamshire.     1819. 
„  S.  Yorkshire.     1828. 

Midgley,  S.    History  of  Halifax.    1712. 
Thoresby,  R.  Ducatus  Leodiensis.  1715. 
„  „  „  1816. 

Whitaker,   T.    D.      History   of   Rich- 

niondshire.     1823. 
Yorkshire  Ale,  Praise  of.    v.  M.,  G. 


CHISWICK   PRESS  : — CHARLES  WHITTINGHAM,    TOOKS   COURT, 
CHANCERY   LANE. 


University  of  California 

SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 

305  De  Neve  Drive  -  Parking  Lot  17  •  Box  951388 

LOS  ANGELES,  CALIFORNIA  90095-1388 


Return  this  material  to  the  library  from  which  It  was  borrowed. 


D    000  640  505    4 


