i 


m' 


^Sv 


j#j« 


H' 


OR 
A 


fp 


rv  Kj  'y 


Cf)e  3|utJ)  Kibx^x]^. 


1  jO  Copies  only  printed  for  sale. 


Cf)e  ^utf)   a^ibrarp. 


A  CATALOGUE  OF  THE  PRINTED  BOOKS, 

MANUSCRIPTS,  AUTOGRAPH  LETTERS. 

AND    ENGRAVINGS,    COLLECTED 

BY    HENRY    HUTH.    WITH 

COLLATIONS     AND 

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL 

DESCRIPTIONS, 


? 


"L'etude  de  la  bibliographie,  si  aride  en  apparence  pour  qui 
ne  la  considere  que  superficiellement,  est  loin,  pour  qui  I'examine 
de  plus  pres,  d'etre  depourvue  d'un  certain  charme ;  elle  offre  a 
I'esprit  observateur  bien  des  fails  curieux,  bien  des  anecdotes 
piquantes,  bien  des  rapprochements  sLnguliers.  Voila  pourquoi 
sans  doute  plusieurs  hommes  de  lettres  distingues,  des  poetes 
meme,  se  sont  livres  i  cette  etude  avec  autant  d'ardeur  que  de 
succes." — Brunet. 


VOL.     III. 

I-O. 

ELLIS    AND    WHITE, 

HotiDon. 

1880. 


CHI5WICK   press:— CHARLES  WHtTTINGHAM,   TOOKS   COURT, 
CHANCERY    LANE. 


CATALOGUE    OF    THE    LIBRARY 


OF 


HENRY    HUTH. 


I.,  A.  A  godly  Ballad  declaring  by  the  Scriptures  the  plagues 
that  haue  insued  whordome.  [Colophon.]  Lnprintcd  at  London  at  the 
long  SJiop  adioining  vnto  Sainct  Mildreds  CImrche  in  the  Poultrie  by 
John  Allde.  Anno  Domini  1^66.  Nouembris  2^,.  A  Broadside.  Black 
letter. 

Twenty-five  stanzas  of  four  lines.     No  other  copy  is  known. 

Reprinted  in  "Ancient  Ballads,"  &c.,  1867. 

I.,  R.  Nova  Britannia.  Offering  fruites  by  Planting  in  Virginia. 
Exciting  all  such  as  be  well  affected  to  further  the  same.  London 
Printed  for  Sanivel  Machani,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  Pauls 
Chujxh-yard,  at  the  Signe  of  the  Bull-head.  1609.  4to.  Blaek  letter.  R.  M. 

A — E  3  in  fours. 

This  tract,  which  has  been  reprinted  in  facsimile,  is  perhaps  the  rarest  of 
all  those  of  an  historical  character  relating  to  Virginia,  e.Kcept  Rich's  metrical 
narrative. 

It  would  appear  from  the  dedication,  which  is  addressed  to  Sir  Thomas  Smith, 
that  the  attempt  to  found  the  Colony  of  Virginia  was  the  occasion  of  no  small 
amount  of  ridicule,  and  that  it  was  not  spared  by  the  dramatists  of  the  day.  The 
author  thus  begins  his  dedicatory  epistle  : — 

"It  is  come  to  passe  (right  Worshipfull)  with  the  businesse  and  plantation  of 
Virginea,  as  it  is  commonly  seene  in  the  attempt  and  progresse  of  all  other  most 
excellent  things,  (which  is)  to  be  accompanied  with  manifold  difficulties,  crosses  and 
disasters,  being  such  as  are  appointed  by  the  highest  prouidence  as  an  exercise  of 
patience  and  other  vertues,  and  to  make  more  wise  thereby  the  managers  thereof : 
by  which  occasion  not  only  the  ignorant  and  simple  minded  are  much  discouraged, 


752  /.,  R.—IDOL   OF  THE   CLOWN ES. 

but  the  malitious  and  looser  sort  (being  accompanied  with  the  licentious  vaine  of 
stage  Poets  have  whet  their  tongues  with  scornfull  taunts  against  the  action 
it  selfe,  in  so  much  as  there  is  no  common  speech  nor  publike  name  of  any  thing 
this  day  (except  it  be  the  name  of  God)  which  is  more  vildly  depraued,  traduced 
and  derided  by  such  unhallowed  lips,  then  the  name  of  Virginea." 

I.,  R.  The  New  Life  of  Virginea  :  declaring  the  former  svccesse 
and  present  estate  of  that  plantation,  being  the  second  part  of  Noua 
Britannia.  Published  by  the  authoritie  of  his  Maiesties  Counsell  of 
Virginea.  London,  Imprinted  by  Felix  Kyngston  for  William  Welby, 
dwelling  at  tlie  signe  of  the  Swan  in  Pauls  Churchyard.  1612. 
4to.   R.  M. 

A— G  in  fours,  first  leaf  blank. 

Dedicated  by  R.  I.  to  "  Sir  Thomas  Smith  of  London,  Gouemour  of  the  Moscouia 
and  East  Indie  Companies,"  &c. 

After  giving  an  account  of  the  several  disasters  which  had  befallen  the  colony 
and  the  loss  sustained  by  the  adventurers,  the  author  continues :  "  You  shall  know 
that  our  Colonic  consisteth  now  of  seven  hundred  men  at  least,  of  sundrie  arts  and 
professions,  some  more  or  lesse,  they  stand  in  health  and  few  sicke,  at  the  ships 
comming  thence,  hauing  left  the  fort  at  Cape  Henry  fortified  and  kept  by  Captaine 
Dauies,  and  the  keeping  of  y antes  towne  to  that  noble  and  well  deserving  Gentle- 
man Master  George  Percie.  The  Colonie  is  remoued  vp  the  riuer  foursescore  miles 
further  beyond  James  towne  to  a  place  of  higher  ground,  strong  and  defencible  by 
nature,  a  good  aire,  wholesome  and  cleere  (vnlike  the  marish  seate  at  James  towne) 
with  fresh  and  plentie  of  water  springs,  much  faire  and  open  grounds  freed  from 
woods,  and  wood  enough  at  hand." 

I.,  R.  Dives  and  Lazarvs  :  Or  rather,  Divellish  Dives.  Delivered 
in  a  Sermon  at  Pauls  Crosse,  by  R.  I.  Preacher  of  the  Word.  Very 
necessary  for  these  times,  and  purposes  :  Published  for  the  great  com- 
fort of  those  that  taste  the  bitternesse  of  affliction.  [Quotation  from 
Matth.  V.  2.]  The  eight  Edition.  London  Printed  by  W.  L  for  Robert 
Bird,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  Ids  shop  in  Cheap-side  at  the  signe  of  the 
Bible.    1628.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A — C  7  in  eights,  the  title  on  A  2. 

The  only  edition  cited  by  Lowndes  is  one  of  1677. 

IBRAHIM  EFFENDI.  [A  description  of  America.  In  the 
Turkish  language.  Printed  at  Constantinople.  About  1770.]  4to. 
Woodcuts. 

The  woodcuts  are  extremely  curious. 

IDOL  OF  THE  CLOWNES.  The  Idol  of  the  Clownes,  or,  In- 
surrection of  Wat  the  Tyler,  With  his  Priests  Baal  and  Straw  ;  Toge- 
ther with  His  fellow  Kings  of  the  Commons,  against  the  English 
Church,  the  King,  the  Laws,  Nobility,  and  Royal  Family  and  Gentry, 
in  the  fourth  year  of  K.  Richard  the  2^    An.  138 1.    In  rebus  humanis 


IGNA  TI VS—INDA  GINE.  753 

scecula  ac  personce  intereitnt,  causa  &  cceiita  eadem  recurrunt.  Nulla 
tyraiinis  vel  quieta  est  vel  diuturna.  London,  Printed  in  the  Year,  1654. 
Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — L  3  in  eights. 

Two  editions  were  printed  in  the  same  year.  Although  usually  attributed  to 
Cleveland,  it  seems  more  probable  that  the  writer  of  the  tract  was  Francis  White, 
of  Gra/s-Inn.     See  "  Notes  and  Queries." 

IGNATIVS  his  Prophecie  Concerning  these  Times.  Sent  from 
France  where  it  was  prophecied  159.  into  England  and  found  in  the 

Abby  of  St.  Benedict  neere  the  City  of  Norwich  in  Norfolke 

London,  Printed  for  lohn  Greensmith,  1642.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

IGNATIUS  DE  LOYOLA.    Exercitia  SpiritvaHa.   [Colophon.] 
RonicB  apud  Antonium  BIadum,XI.  Septembris.  1548.  Sm.  8vo.  BR.  M. 
A — P  iii  in  eights,  including  title. 

Vita  B.  P.  Ignatii   de   Loyola  Fundatoris   Societatis  Jesv. 


Hieronymus  Wierx    invenit,    incidit    et   excudit.    \Atitverpia:.   s.  a.] 

Sqr.  Svo.    BR.  M. 

Engraved  title  and  twelve  plates. 

Ignatii  Loyolae  Vita.    Romce.    i6og.    4to. 

Engraved  title  and  seventy-nine  plates. 

Ignatii  Loyolse  Vita  ad  vivvm  expressa.    Antverpi(2  16 10. 

Folio. 

Engraved  title  and  plates  numbered  1-15.  Engraved  by  MaUery,  Cor.  Galle, 
and  Adr.  Collaert. 

IHRE,  JOH.  Glossarium  Suiogothicum,  in  quo  tarn  hodierno  usu 
frequentata  vocabula,  quam  in  legum  patriarum  tabulis  aliisque  aevi 
medii  scriptis  obvia  explicantur,  et  ex  dialectis  cognatis,  Moesogothica, 
Anglosaxonica,  Alemannica,  Islandica  ceterisque  Gothicse  et  Celticse 
originis  illustrantur.    Upsaiice.    1769.    2  vols,  in  i.    Folio. 

INDAGINE,  JOH.  Die  kunst  der  Chiromantzey,  usz  besehung 
der  hend.  Physiognomey,  usz  anblick  des  menschens.  Natiirlichen 
Astrologey  noch  dem  lauff  der  Sonen.  Complexion  eins  yegklichen 
menschens.  Natiirlichen  ynflijssz  der  Planeten.  Der  zwolff  zeichen 
Angesychten.    Ettliche  Canones,  zu  erkantniisz  der  menschen  kranck- 

heiten,  solicher  weisz  vormals  nye  beschriben  oder  gedruckt 

[Colophon.]    Getruckt  zu  Straszburg,  durch  Joanjieni  Scliott  Buchtrucker 
zimt  Tliyergarten.    Anno  .  M.D.xxiii.    Folio.    Woodcuts. 

a,  4  leaves ;  b — g  in  sixes ;  h,  i,  1— n,  in  fours  ;  k  and  o  in  sixes.  The  last  leaf 
blank. 

4R 


754  INDA  GINE—IND  UL  GENCE. 

INDAGINE,  JOH.  Brief  introductions,  bothe  naturall,  pleasaunte, 
and  also  delectable  vnto  the  Art  of  Chiromancy,  or  Manuel  diuination, 
and  Phisiognomy :  with  circumstances  vpon  the  faces  of  thesignes.  Also 
certain  canons  or  rules  vpon  diseases  and  sickenessc.  Whereunto  is  also 
annexed  aswel  the  artificiall,  as  naturall  Astrologye,  with  the  nature  of 
the  planets.  Written  in  the  Latin  tonge,  by  Ihon  Indagine  Prieste. 
And  now  latelye  translated  into  Englishe,  by  Fabian  Withers.  Londmi. 
Apnd  lohannis  Day.  1558.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  Londoti  by  Ihon 
Dale,  for  Richarde  Iiigge,  divclliiige  at  the  Nortlie  dore  of  Ponies  Churche, 
at  tlu  sigtie  of  the  Bible.    Sm.  8vo.    Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A— Q  iv  in  eights.  The  first  leaf  of  A  and  the 
last  of  Q  are  blank. 

INDULGENCE.  Forma  confessionalis.  Pateat  universis  presentes 

litteras  inspecturis.    Qualiter  deuot  in  xpo /  diocess  ad  op^ 

sancte  cruciate  p  sactissimi  in  xpo  pre3  et  diim  nrm  di!m  SixtQ  diuina 
puidetia  papa  quartu/  ordinatum  debitam  fecerit  Dtributione.  Qua- 
propter  auctoritate  prefati  domini  nostri  ppe  ptate  sit  eligendi/  sibi 
confessorem  prespiterum  ydoneum  religiosum  vel  seculare.  qui  audita 
diligenter  eius  Dfessione  absolvere  eum/  possit  auctoritate  pdicta  ab 
omib^  comissis  per  eum  excessibus  et  peccatis  quibuslibet  quantum- 
cuq,  enormibus./  Etia  si  talia  forent  ppter  .  .  .  scdes  apostolica  esset 
cosulcnda.  Et  a  censuris  et  penis  ac  excoicationibus  omfibus./  A  iure 
vel  p  statuta  quecuq,  pmulgatis  et  seda  apPice  reseruatis  semel  dum- 
taxat.  A  non  reseruatis  vere  eidem  .  .  .  .  /  totiens  quotiens  id  petierit. 
Ac  semel  in  vita  et  in  mortis  articulo  plenaria  omnium  peccatoi; 
suorum  indulgentia/  et  remissionem  impendere.  Non  obstatibus  qui- 
buscijq,  reservationibus  a  pfato  pontifice.  vel  eius  predecessoribus/ 
factis  prout  in  bulla  data  M .  CCCC.  LXXX  pridie  nonas  decebris 
pontificat^  eiusdem  anno  decimo  plenius/  continetur.  In  cui^  rei 
fidem  et  testimoniu  Ego  frater  Petr®  Gardian®  &  pdicator  ouet®  mo- 
naceti.  ordinis  mino/  rum  subcommissarius  eiusdem  sanctissimi  dfii 
nostri  Sixti  pape  quarti  super  prefato  negocio  deputatus  presetes/ 
litteras  fieri  feci.  Et  sigilli  cruciate  impressione  muniri.  Anno  domini. 
M.  CCCC  .  LXXXII.  die/  [Here  follows  a  blank  space  for  the  date 
to  be  filled  in  in  MS.  This  occupies  fourteen  lines,  and  beneath  fol- 
lows] Forma  absolutionis.    A  Broadside.    io|  by  6|  in. 

A  curious  specimen  of  block  printing.  The  whole  occupies  twenty-three  lines, 
and  is  entirely  engraved  on  wood  and  printed  on  paper.  There  are  some  lacunae, 
which  are  indicated  by  dots.  It  was  no  doubt  printed  at  Munich,  where  letterpress 
printing  was  not  introduced  till  quite  the  end  of  the  century. 

Raymundus  miseratioe  diuina  Tituli  sancte  marie  noue.  sancte 

Romane  ecclesie  psbyter  Cardinalis  Gurcensis :  ad  vniuersam  Germania: 
Daciam:  Suetia:  Norwegia :  Frisiam  :  Prussia:  oesq^  x  singulas  illa^ 


INGERSOLL—INSTITVTTON.  755 

puincias :  ciuitates :  terras  %  loca :  eua  sacro  Romano  impio  in  ipsa  Ger- 
mania  subiecta  T  eis  adiacetia  aplTce  sedis  de  latere  legatus  Universis 
1  singulis  psentes  Ifas  inspecturis  salutem  in  dno.  Notu  facimus  q,  sanc- 
tissini®  in  xpo  pater  i  dns  noster  dns  Alexader  diuina  puidentia  papa 
sextus  7  modernus.  concessit  olbus  et  singulis  vtriusq3  sexus  xpi  fideli- 
bus.  p  tuitoe  orthodoxe  fidei  c5tra  Thurcos  eiusde  fidei  inimicos  iuxta 
ordinatione  nostra  man®  adiutrices  porrigetib®  pier  Jubileum.    i  alias 

indulgetias :  gras  7  facultates Datu  sub  sigillo  nostro  ad  hoc 

ordinate  die  ....  mensis  ....  Anno  dni  M.  ccccc.  ij.  [Then  follow 
the  forms  of  Absolution.]     A  Broadside.    Printed  on  vellum.    BL.  M. 

It  consists  of  twenty-nine  lines,  and  measures  s|  in.  by  yi  in.  The  name  and 
date  of  the  month  are  left  blank,  that  they  may  be  filled  in  in  manuscript 

INGERSOLL,  J.  Mr.  IngersoU's  Letters  relating  to  the  Stamp- 
Act.  New-Haveii :  Printed  and  Sold  by  Samuel  Green,  in  the  Old 
State-House.    1766.    4to.    BL.  M. 

A — S,  2  leaves  each,  and  the  title. 

At  the  end  of  this  copy  are  inserted  copies  of  letters  addressed  on  the  same 
subject  by  different  persons  to  Mr.  Ingersoll,  with  a  transcript  of  the  bond  given  by 
Mr.  Ingersoll  for  the  due  execution  of  his  office  of  distributor  of  stamps. 

INJUNCTIONS.  Inivnccions  geue  by  the  moste  excellent  prince, 
Edward  the  sixte,  by  the  grace  of  God,  Kyng  of  England  ....  To 
all  and  singuler  his  louyng  subiectes,  aswell  of  the  Clergie,  as  of  the 
Laietie.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  London,  the  last  daie  of  Ivlii,  in 
the  first  Yere  of  the  Reigne  of  ovr  Sovcreigne  Lord  Kyng  Edzuard  tlie. 
VL  By  Richard  Grafton  Printer  to  His  Moste  Roy  all  Maiestie.  Anno. 
1547.    Cum priuilegio  ad  imprimendum  solum.   4to.   Black  letter,    bl.  M. 

a — d  2  in  fours,  with  Grafton's  device  occupying  the  last  page. 
Following  this  device  begins,  on  A  j,  without  any  regular  title-page  : — 
"^: 
^•1 :  Articles  to  be  enquired  of  in  the  Kynges  Maiesties  Visitacion."    This 

ends  on  the  verso  of  B  ii  (the  si.xth  leaf)  with  the  colophon,  "  C  Richardits  G7-afton 
Regis  Impressor  exaidebat.    Cum  Priuilegio  ad  imprimendum  \sic\  solum." 

This  was  the  earliest  publication  of  Edward  VI.'s  reign  towards  the  further 
reformation  of  ecclesiastical  affairs. 

INQUISITION.  Forma  Inquisitionis  Hispanicse  instituta  in  in- 
feriori  Germania  Anno  1550.  [Colophon.]  Impressum  MagdebicrgcB per 
Micliaelem  LottJierum.  4.  Octobris.  Anno  1550.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Fifteen  leaves. 

INSTITVTION  of  a  Christen  Man,  The,  conteynynge  the  Ex- 
posytion  or  Interpretation  of  the  commune  Crede,  of  the  seuen  Sacra- 
mentes,  of  the  .  x  .  commandmentes,  and  of  the  Pater  noster,  and  the 
Aue  Maria,  Justyfication  &  Purgatory.    [Colophon.]    Londini  in  ./Edi- 


756      INSTITUTION ES-INTERROG A  TORIES. 

bus  Tlwmce  Berthclcti  Rcgii  Impressoris.  An.  M.D .  XXX  VII.  Cvm 
Privilegio.    4to.    Black  letter. 

a,  4  leaves ;  A— Z  in  fours ;  and  Aa,  S  leaves.    The  title  within  a  woodcut  border. 

Of  this  work  at  least  two  editions  in  4to  and  one  in  8vo  were  printed  in  1537. 
See  Herbert,  p.  42S. 

This  was  commonly  known  as  "The  Bishop's  book."  In  the  preface  addressed 
to  the  king,  which  is  signed  by  the  bishops  and  other  principal  clergy,  we  read : 
"  Your  hvo-hnesse  commaunded  us  nowe  of  late,  to  assemble  our  selfes  togyther, 
and  vppon°the  diligent  serche  and  pervs>'nge  of  holye  scripture,  to  sette  forthe  a 
playne  and  syncere  doctrine,  concernynge  the  hole  summe  of  all  those  thynges, 
whyche  appertayne  vnto  the  profession  of  a  Chrysten  man." 

It  might  be  supposed  that  the  "  Pia  et  Catholica  Christiani  Hominis  Institutio," 
printed  by  Berthelet  in  1544,  was  a  Latin  version  of  this  book;  but  it  is  in  fact 
a  translation  of  the  "  Necessary  Doctrine  and  Erudition  for  any  christen  man," 
printed  by  Berthelet  in  1 543. 

INSTITUTIONES  CHRISTIAN^E,  seu  Parws  Catechismvs 
Catholicorum,  Prxcipua  Christiana:  pietatis  capita  complectens  :  Pri- 
mum  quidem  k  loanne  Baptista  Romano,  Societatis  lesu,  in  rudiorum 
&  idiotarum  gratiam,  iuxta  SS.  Concilii  Tridentini  decretum  Sess.  25. 
imaginibus  distinctus,  nunc  vero  aereis  formis  ad  D.  Petri  Canisii, 
Societati-s  Jesu,  Institutiones  eleganter  expressus.  Antverpia,  Exaide- 
bat  C.  Planthms.     1589.    Sm.  8vo.    Plates.    G.  M. 

Pp.  212  including  title,  also  one  leaf  with  colophon  not  numbered. 

INTERROGATORIES,  vpon  which,  and  euerye  part  of  the  same 
aswell  the  Churcliwardens  now  being,  as  also  all  other  hereafter  to  be 
appointed,  shalbe  charged  withal,  set  foorth  by  the  kyng  and  Quenes 
Malestles  Commissioners,  for  searche,  inquiry,  &  certlficat  to  be  had 
of  al  such  things  as  now  be,  or  hereafter  shalbe  amysse,  in  anye  wyse 
concernyng  the  Commission  to  them  geuen,  vpon  which  certlficat 
duelye  made,  reformation  and  redresse  shall  be  had  thereof  wyth  all 
conuenlent  speede  and  diligence.  Anno.  1558.  Mensc  Aprielis.  Ex- 
cusiun  Londini  in  cedibus  Roberti  Caly,  Typographi.  Ctini  Prinilegio  ad 
Imprvnendum  solum.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  Loridon  by  Robart 
Caly,  nyt/tin  tlie  precinct  of  Christes  Hospitall .  The .vi.  day  of  Aprill . 
M .  D  .LVIII.  Qim  prinilegio  ad  imprimendum  solum.  4to.  Black 
letter.    R.  M. 

A — B  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  of  B  having  only  the  colophon.  The  title  is  within 
a  broad  ornamental  border,  and  upon  it  occur  the  signatures  of  "  Edmunde  Bonner  " 
[Bp.  of  London]  and  "John  Pickering." 

Unknown  to  bibliographers.  Some  of  the  points  of  inquiry  are  very  curious  ; 
several  refer  to  the  question,  then  much  agitated,  of  married  priests ;  and  one  is 
upon  the  subject  of  forbidden  literature ; — "  Item  whether  y'=  knowe  or  haue  hearde 
of  anye  Prynters  or  Bookesellers  wythin  youre  Parishe  that  hathe  solde,  or  nowe 
dothe  sell  or  keepe  anye  the  sayde  hereticall,  nawghtye,  or  seditious  booke  or 
bookes,  letters  or  wrytynges,  and  whyther  ye  haue  any  suspectes  thereof."  Among 
these  naughty  books  are  "  especially  english  testamentes  or  Bibles  falsely  translated, 
secretlye  or  otherwise." 


IRELAND.  757 

The  eleventh  article  is  directed  against  the  favourers  of  naughty  persons,  who 
read  the  English  service  used  in  the  time  of  King  Edward  the  Sixth,  or  the  book 
of  Communion,  or  any  book  prohibited  or  forbidden.  The  thirty-second  article 
inquires  as  to  the  existence  within  each  parish  of  a  Rood  and  a  Rood-loft,  having 
the  images  of  Mar)'  and  John ;  and  the  next  asks  whether  the  authorities  have  a 
register  of  births,  deaths,  and  marriages  properly  kept  up. 

IRELAND.  Late  and  Lamentable  News  from  Ireland,  WTierein 
are  truly  related,  the  Rebellious,  and  Cruell  proceedings  of  the  Papists 
there,  at  this  present,  extracted  out  of  the  last  Letters  from  Dublin. 
Also  the  Protestation  of  the  Lords  and  Commons  now  assembled  in 
Parliament  there,  for  the  Maintenance  of  the  Kings  most  Excellent 
Alajesties  Right  and  Government,  and  safty  of  that  Kingdome  ;  To- 
gether with  two  orders  of  Parliament  in  Ireland,  concerning  the  sup- 
pressing of  the  Rebels  there,  and  hearing  of  their  pretended  Griev- 
ances by  a  Committee  appointed  for  that  purpose.  Printed  Verbatim 
according  to  the  Printed  Copies  sent  from  Dublin.  London,  Printed 
for  losepli  Hiinskott.     164 1.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

Interleaved  and  illustrated  by  engravings,  among  which  are  : — i.  A  large  print 
in  eighteen  compartments,  partly  copied,  but  with  alterations,  from  the  plates  to 
Cranford's  "  Tears  of  Ireland,"  1642.  2.  Portrait  of  Charles  I.,  "  W.  Marshall,  sculp. 
Will.  Richard.  Excudit,"  taken  verj-  early  in  his  reign,  and  ver)'  rare.  3.  Engravings 
in  twenty-three  compartments  on  three  sheets,  in  the  same  style  as  the  plates  in 
Cranford,  but  the  subjects  different  and  the  engravings  very  rude.  4.  A  broadside 
in  ten  compartments,  entitled  "  The  bloody  Warning  to  Protestants  against  a  Popish 
Government.  Being  a  lively  Description  of  the  unparallel'd  Cruelty  exercised  on 
the  Magistrates  and  others  of  the  Protestant  City  of  Thorn,  by  y  Contrivance  and 

Influence  of  the  Jesuits Sold  by  J.  Clark  Engraver  Ss'  Printseller  in  Grays 

Inn"    [1724.] 

More  Brave,  and  Good  Newes  from  Ireland.    Being  a  Trve 

Relation  of  the  Victorious  Battell,  fought  by  Collonel  Lesly,  and 
four  Regiments  of  English,  against  7000.  of  the  Rebels  neer  to  the 
City  of  Cork,  Mar.  2,  wherein  the  Earl   of  Mackair,   and  a    Spanish 

Collonel  were  taken  prisoners, Also  another  famous  Battell 

fought  by  Col.  Douglas,  ....  With  a  Relation  how  a  Spanish  Ship 
was  taken  by  a  Bristoll  ship,  being  bound  for  Ireland,  with  the  names 
of  the  Commanders,  having  many  Letters  about  them  .  .  .  London, 
Printed  for  John  Tompson.    1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

A  true  Relation  of  Certaine  Passages  which  Captaine  Basset 

brought  from  the  West  parts  of  Cornewall.  Concerning  some  Shippes 
which  came  from  Bilbo  in  Spaine  to  goe  to  Ireland  ;  but  were  driven 
into  an  Hand  called  St.  Ives,  by  reason  of  tempestuous  weather; 
wherein  was  found  great  store  of  Popish  Reliques,  beside  Friers, 
Priests,  and  Jesuites.    There  was  also  a  Ship  which  came  from  France 


758  IRELAND. 

to  goe  to  Ireland  .  .  .  Likewise,  Three  Ships  which  are  in  Dunkerke 
laden  with  Ammunition  and  Men  for  Ireland.  As  also,  Severall  Pro- 
positions made  by  the  Citie  of  London  ....  London,  Printed  by 
R.  0.  and  G.  D.for  lohn  Bull  .  .  .  1642.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

IRELAND.     Timely  Advice,  Or,  Motives  to  Incite  all  men  of 

ability  to  subscribe  To  The  Propositions  for  Ireland.  Printed  at  London 

for  E.  D.  1642.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

Weighty  Considerations  Manifesting  the  great  Advantages 


of  prosecvting  the  Irish  Wars.    By  joyning  the  Forces  of  the  voluntary 

undertakers,  unto  the  supplies  to  be  sent  over  by  the  State 

Published    by   speciall   Authority.     London,   Printed  by   E.    Griffin. 

1 642.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

A  Faithful  History  of  the  Northern  Affairs  of  Ireland:  From 

The  Late  K.  James  Accession  to  the  Crown,  to  the  Siege  of  London- 
derry. Giving  a  True  Account  of  the  Occasions  of  the  Miscarriages 
there :  And  of  the  Reasons  why  the  Gentry  abandon'd  those  Parts. 

By  a  Person  who  bore  a  great  Share  in  those  Transactions 

London  :  Printed,  and  are  to  be  Sold  by  Randall  Taylor  near  Stationers- 
Hall.    1690.    4to. 

A — E  in  fours. 

A  List  of  the  Claims  As  they  are  Entred  with  the  Trustees 


at  Chichester-House  on  College-Green  Dublin,  On  or  before  the  Tenth 
of  August,  1700.  Dublin:  Printed  by  Joseph  Ray,  and  are  to  be  Sold 
by  Patrick  Campbell  Bookseller,  in  Skintier-Roiv ,  1701.  Folio.  Large 
paper.    G.  M. 

Title-page,  preceded  by  a  blank,  2  leaves  ;  B — Xxxx,  2  leaves  each  ;  Alphabet  of 
the  Claims,  4  leaves. 

This  copy  has  the  decisions  written  in  a  contemporary  hand  in  the  margins, 
and  the  "  Memorandum  "  pasted  on  the  back  of  the  title,  mentioned  in  the  "  Gren- 
ville  Catalogue,"  i.,  361.     The  volume  is  said  to  have  been  suppressed. 

A  Letter  to  a  Member  of  Parliament  Relating  to  the  Irish 


Forfeitures.     London,  Printed  in  the  Year  I'joi.    4to. 

A — D,  2  leaves  each. 

IRELAND,  Th.  Verses  spoken  at  the  Appearance  of  the  King 
and  Queene,  Dvke  and  Dvtchesse  of  York,  in  Christ-Church  Hall, 
Oxford,  Sept :  29.  1663.  By  Th  :  Ireland  St.  Ch  :  Ch  :  Oxford,  Printed 
by  H.  Hall,  for  R.  Davis  according  to  the  Authors  own  Copies,  being 
more  Correct  then  those  printed  at  London,  without  his  consent,  or  htow- 
ledgc.    1663.    4to. 


IRVINE— ISIDORUS    DE  ISOLANIS.  759 

Six  leaves. 

A  Britwell  duplicate,  afterwards  in  the  libraries  of  Dr.  Bliss  and  Mr.  Corser. 

IRVINE,  Christopher.  Historiae  Scoticae  Nomenclatura  Latino- 
Vernacula :  Multis  flosculis,  ex  antiquis  Albinorum  Monumentis,  & 
Lingua  Galeciorum  prisca  decerptis,  Adspersa.  In  gratiam  eorum, 
qui  Scotorum  nomen,  &  veritatis  numen  colunt,  Christopherus  Irvinus 
Abs  Bon-Bosco  Auspice  Summo  numine,  concinnavit ;  et  Edinbrvchii, 
Suviptibns  Gidconis  Sc/iaw,  Bibliopolce  iwbilis,  Typisq;  Andersoniatiis 
Regiis,  Calendas  Janiiarias,  1682.    hiiprimi  Curavit.    8vo. 

*,  8  leaves,  title  on  *  2  ;  A — Q  in  eights.  Dedicated  to  the  Duke  of  Albany  and 
York. 

ISENBERG,  Walter.  Wie  die  mechtige  Erbkiinigreich  vnnd 
Fiirstentumb  Hispania  Hunngern  vnnd  Gelldern,  zu  den  loblichen 
heiisern  Osterreich  vn  Burgundi  kommensein,  bisz  auf  unsern  Aller- 
gnedigisten  herrn,  herrn  Karl  Erwolten  Romischen  vn  Hispanischen 
&c  Kunigen  Ertzhertzogen  zu  Osterreich.  Hertzogen  zu  Burgundi. 
Als  den  rechten  naturlichen  Erbherrn,  dersclben  Erbkiinigreiclien,  mit 
vil  ergangen  schonen  geschichten,  so  dan  von  hochloblichergedecht- 
nusz  von  Kayser.  Kiinig.  Fiirsten  vnd  hern,  in  kurtz  vergangen  jarn 
beschehen  ist.  [Colophon.]  Gedruckt  in  der  Kayserlichcn  Stat  Augspjirg 
diirch  Hamis  Schdnsperger.   Anno  dni.  M.D.  xx.jar.   Folio.    Woodcuts. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — E,  6  leaves  each  ;  F,  4  leaves. 

The  only  bibliographer  who  mentions  this  rare  volume  is  Dr.  Graesse  and  he 
merely  gives  an  abbreviation  of  the  title  without  any  description.  The  title  as  given 
above  is  printed  over  a  large  woodcut  in  two  compartments,  the  upper  of  which 
represents  the  Emperor  holding  a  sceptre,  and  in  the  lower  one  are  the  imperial  amis. 
The  leaf  following  the  title  contains  an  epistle  addressed  to  the  Emperor,  and 
signed  by  "Walther  Isenberg  Burger  zu  Memmingen."  The  woodcuts  are  twenty-four 
in  number,  two  or  three  being  repetitions. 

ISIDORE.  Comenza  La  Cronica  De  Sancto  Isidero  Menore :  Con 
Alchune  additione  Cauate  Del  Texto  Et  Istorie  De  la  Bibia  :  E  Del 
Libro  De  Paulo  Orosio  :  E  de  Le  Passione  De  Li  Sancti.  [Colophon.] 
Finita  La  Cronica  Dc  santo  Isidero  Menore.  In  Ciuidal  De  Friiili. 
Net  Anno 1480.    Adi.  24.  de  Noiiembre.    4to.    BR.  M. 

a — e  in  eights ;  f,  10  leaves,  the  last  blank. 

Only  two  books  were  printed  at  Friuli  in  the  fifteenth  century,  the  other  being 
"  Platina  de  honesta  voluptate,"  which  is  also  in  the  library. 

[ISIDORUS  DE  ISOLANIS.]  Inexplicabilis  mysterii  gesta 
Beatae  Veronicse  Virginis  praeclarissimi  Monasterii  Sanct^e  Marthse 
urbis  Mediolani.  Mediolani  apud  Gotardiun  Ponticum  Inipressorum. 
1518.    4to.     Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  including  the  errata,  12  leaves  ;  folios  1-130. 


76o  ISINDERUS— JAMES    THE   FIRST. 

ISINDERUS,  Melch.  Oratio  rccitata  in  Renunciatione  gradus 
Theologici.    [5'. /.]    1548.    Sm.  8vo.    O.  M. 

Eight  leaves. 

Disputatio  Theologica  de  Poenitentia.    Witeberga  Ex  officina 

lohatmis  Litfft.    1548.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Eight  leaves. 

[ITINERARIUM  Beate  Mariae  Virginis.]  Prefacio  in  itinerarium 
seu  peregrinationcm  :  beate  virginis  z  dei  genitricis  marie.  [On  the 
verso  of  e  iv]  Finis  itinerarij  seu  peregrinationis  beate  marie  virginis. 
[S.  I.  et  a?\    4to.     Woodcuts. 

This  is  the  edition  of  thirty-six  leaves,  with  thirty-two  lines  to  the  page,  a  i  has  a 
large  woodcut  on  the  verso,  the  recto  being  blank.  Attributed  by  Hain,  No.  9323, 
to  the  press  of  Alb.  Kunne  of  Memmingen.    From  the  Yemeniz  library. 

ITINERARIUS  siue  peregrinarius  Beatissime  Virginis  Marie. 
[Colophon.]  Finis  itiiicrarii  sen  peregrinarii  beate  Marie  virginis 
impressum  per  Lconhardmn  Yseiihiit.  {^Sine  loco  ant  afitto.]  Sm.  8vo. 
Woodc2its.    R.  M. 

A — O  4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

This  edition  was  no  doubt  printed  at  Basle.  A  German  translation  was  put 
forth  by  the  same  printer  with  the  name  of  that  place  to  it,  in  1489. 


J- 

JACK  AND  THE  GIANTS.  The  Pleasant  and  Delightful  His- 
tory of  Jack  and  the  Giants.  Nottingham,  Printed  for  the  Running 
Stationers.    Sm.  8vo.    In  two  parts.     Woodcuts. 

JACOPONE  DA  TODI.  Laude  di  frate  lacopone  da  Todi. 
[Colophon.]  A  contemplatione  delle  denote  persone  sono  impresse  qneste 
laude  per  Ser  Francesco  Bonaccorsi  In  Firenze  adi  nentiotto  del  incse  di 
septebre.    M.CCCCLXXXX.    4to.    R.  M. 

A,  8  leaves,  the  last  having  a  woodcut  on  the  verso,  the  recto  blank,  a — q  in 
eights ;  "  Tauola,"  6  leaves. 

JAMES   THE    FIRST.    The  Workes  of  the   most   High   and 

Mightie  Prince,  lames  by  the   Grace  of  God Published  by 

lames,  Bishop  of  Winton,  and  Deane  of  his  Maiesties  Chappel  Royall. 
I  Reg.  3.  Vers.  12.  Loe,  I  haiie  giuen  thee  a  wise  and  an  vnderstanding 
heart.  London  Printed  by  Robert  Barker  and  lohn  Bill,  Printers  to  the 
KingsinostExcellentMaicstie.  Anno.  1616.  CnniPriuilcgio.  Folio.  R.  M. 

Portrait  of  the  King  by  Simon  Passe  and  engraved  title  by  Elstrack,  2  leaves  ; 
printed  title  and  woodcut  of  the  royal  arms,  2  leaves  ;  Bishop  of  Winchester's  dedi- 
cation to  Charles,  Prince  of  Wales  (with  a  small  portrait  of  the  prince   at   the 


JAMES    THE  FIRST.  761 

top  of  the  leaf),  2  leaves  ;  the  Bishop's  Preface,  b — e  2  in  fours  ;  contents,  i  leaf ; 
A — Bbb  4  in  sixes,  last  leaf  blank. 

This  volume  contains  the  prose  works  only.  In  this  copy  is  inserted  an  im- 
pression of  the  large  print  by  W.  Pass,  representing  the  King  seated  and  Prince 
Henry  standing,  hat  in  hand,  by  his  side,  beneath  which  are  sixteen  lines  of  verse 
in  two  columns,  and  in  the  lower  right-hand  corner,  "  Are  to  be  sould  by  Thomas 
lenner  in  Comhill  at  the  white  Beare."  At  the  foot  of  the  second  column  of  verses, 
opposite  the  imprint,  occurs  the  date,  "  Anno  Domini  1621." 

JAMES  THE  FIRST.  His  Maiesties  Pocticall  Exercises  at 
vacant  houres.  At  Edinbvrgli  Printed  by  Robert  Waldc-graite  prmter 
to  the  Kings  Maiestie.     Qim  Prinilegio  Rcgali.    [1591.]    4to.    R.  M. 

Title,  I  leaf ;  The  Avthovr  to  the  Reader,  i  leaf ;  "  To  the  King  of  Scotland,"  a 
sonnet  by  Henry  Constable,  i  leaf,  reverse  blank  ;  "  Sonet  to  the  onely  Royal  Poet," 
by  W.  Fowler,  i  leaf;  verses  in  Greek  and  Latin  by  Hadrianus  Damman,  and  in 
English  by  Henry  Lok,  i  leaf;  "The  Exord,  or  Preface  of  the  Second  Week  of 
Dv  Bartas  [The  Furies],"  2  leaves  ;  "The  Translator's  Invocation,"  i  leaf;  "The 
Furies,"  B — G  2  in  fours  ;  [a  new  title-page]  "  The  Lepanto  of  lames  the  sixt.  King 
of  Scotland.  Edinb-c'rgh  Printed  by  Robert  Walde-graiie"  &c.,  G  3 — L  in  fours  ; 
[a  third  title]  "  La  Lepanthe  de  laqves  VI.  Roy  d'Escosse.  Faicte  francoise  par  le 
Sieur  Du  Bartas.  ImprimS  a  Edinb^irg,  Qr'c.  Atino  Dom.  1591.  .  .  .,"  M — P  i  in 
fours  ;  "  Sonet,"  signed  "  I.  R.  S.,"  i  leaf,  marked  M. 

The  title-pages  to  the  "  Poetical  Exercises  "  and  to  the  "  Lepanto  "  are  within 
woodcut  borders.  In  the  address  to  the  reader,  the  King  says  of  the  contents  of 
the  volume  :  "  Rough  and  unpolished  as  they  are,  I  offer  them  unto  thee  :  which 
being  well  accepted,  will  move  me  to  haste  the  presenting  unto  thee  of  my  Apocalyps, 
and  also  such  nomber  of  the  Psalmes  as  I  have  perfited,  and  encourage  me  to  the 
ending  of  the  rest."  It  was  mentioned  by  Bishop  Williams  in  his  funeral  sermon 
on  King  James,  that  "  This  work  was  staid  at  the  one  &  thirty  Psalm."  A  complete 
metrical  version  of  the  Psalms,  purporting  to  be  by  King  James,  was  printed  at 
Oxford,  in  8vo,  1631.  Of  the  Apocalypse  nothing  more  is  known.  See  Holland's 
"  Psalmists  of  Great  Britain,"  vol.  i.,  p.  253. 

From  Mr.  Geo.  Daniel's  collection. 

Daemonologie,  in  Forme  of  a  Dialogue,  Diuided  into  three 

Bookes.  Edinbvrgli  Printed  by  Robert  W aldc-graue  Printer  to  the 
Kings  Majestie.  An.  \'^(^J.     Cuin  Privilegio  Regio.    4to.    BL.  M. 

Title-page  and  preface  to  the  Reader,  signed  "  lames  R.,"  5  leaves  ;  B — M  i 
in  fours. 

From  the  collections  of  Sir  W.  Tite  and  Mr.  Corser. 

Daemonologie,  in  Forme  of  a  Dialogve,  Diuided  into  three 

books  :  Written  by  the  high  and  mightie  Prince,  lames  by  the  grace 
of  God  King  of  England,  Scotland  ....  London,  Printed  by  Arnold 
Hatfield  for  Robert  Wald-graue.     1 603.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours. 

BASIAIKON  AQPON.  Or  His  Maiesties  Instrvctions  to  his 

4s 


762  JAMES    THE  EIRST. 

dearest  soiine  Henry  the  Trince.   Edinbvrgh  Printed  by  Robert  Walde- 
graue  Printer  to  the  Kings  Majestic.    1603.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title,  Argument,  and  Epistle,  7  leaves;  To  the  Reader,  12  leaves  ;  C— L  iii  in 
eights.    The  tirst  published  edition. 

JAMES  THE  FIRST.  BASIAIKON  AiiPON.  Or  His  Maiesties 
Instrvctions  to  his  dearest  Sonne,  Henry  the  Prince.  At  London  Im- 
printed by  Eclix  Kyngston,  for  John  Norton,  according  to  the  copie  printed 
at  Edcnburgh.    1603.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Title,  &c.,  8  leaves,  first  and  last  blank  ;  A,  8  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves  ;  C— L  4  in 
eights;  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  King's  Maiesties  Speech,  as  it  was  deliuered  by  him  in 


the  vpper  house  of  the  Parliament  to  the  Lords  Spirituall  and  Tem-  ^1 

porall,  and  to  the  Knights,  Citizens  and  Burgesses  there  assembled.  Wl 

On  Munday  the  19.  day  of  March  1603.  being  the  first  day  of  this 
present  Parliament,  and  the  first  Parliament  of  his  Maiesties  Raigne. 
Imprinted  at  London  by  Robert  Barker,  Printer  to  the  Kings  most 
Excellent  Maiestie.    Anno  1604.    4to. 

A — D  in  fours,  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

Triplici  nodo  triples  cuneus.     Sive  Apologia  pro  luramcnto 


fidelitatis,  Adversus  duo  Brevia  P.  Pauli  Ouinti,  &  Epistolam  Cardinalis 
Bellarmini,  ad  G.  Blackvcllum  Archipresbyterum  nuperscriptam.    Au- 

thoritate  Regia.   Londini  Excudebat  Robcrtus  Barkcrus 1607.   4to. 

In  the  original  gilt  vellum. 

A — Q  ii  in  fours. 

A  Pvblication  of  his  Ma*""  Edict  and  Severe  Censvre  against 


Priuate  Combats  and  Combatants ;  Whether  within  his  Highnesse 
Dominions,  or  without ;  With  their  Seconds,  Accomplices,  and  Ad- 
herents :  Straitly  charging  all  Officers,  and  other  his  Ma""  Subiects, 
to  vse  no  conniuencie,  or  remisse  proceeding  toward  such  Offenders : 
For  the  necessary  and  timely  preuention  of  those  heauy  euents,  where- 
unto  aswell  Kingdomes,  as  worthy  Families  become  obnoxious,  by 
the  odious  and  enormous  Impieties  ineuitably  subsequent  thereupon. 
Imprinted  at  London  by  Robert  Barker,  Printer  to  the  Kings  most 
Excellent  Maiestie.    Anno  161^.    4to. 

A — Q  2  in  fours,  first  leaf  blank. 

The  Savile  copy,  on  large  paper,  in  the  original  vellum  binding,  with  the  auto- 
graph on  title  of  "  H.  Savile,  20110  Feb.  1613." 

The  True  Narration   of  the   Entertainment  of  his  Royall 


Maiestie,  from  the  time  of  his  departure  from  Edenbrough  ;  till  his 
receiuing  at  London  :  with  all  or  the  most  speciall  Occurrences. 
Together  with  the  names  of  those  Gentlemen  whom  his  Maiestie 


JAMES    THE   FIRST—JAMES.  763 

honoured  with  Knighthood.  At  London  Printed  by  Thomas  Creede, 
for  Thomas  Millington.     1603.    4to.    G.  M. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — G  2  in  fours. 

JAMES  THE  FIRST.  King  James  His  Divine  Prophecie,  of 
the  Warres  and  Distractions  of  the  present  and  future  Times,  in  Rela- 
tion to  the  two  Witnesses  their  coming  downe  from  Heaven,  fighting, 
and  how  slaine  by  Antichrist,  .  .  .  Written  by  King  James  .  .  .  London, 
Printed  for  R.  Austin.     1645.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  Narrative  History  of  King  James,  for  tlie  first  fourteen 

Years.  In  four  Parts,  i.  The  State  of  England  at  his  Majesties  en- 
trance, and  relation  it  had  to  other  Parts  :  The  Lascivious  ccursej  at 
Court ;  with  the  Lord  of  Northampton's  coming  to  Honour.  .  .  . 
II.  The  Proceedings  touching  the  Divorce  betwixt  the  Lady  Frances 
Howard,  and  Robert  Earl  of  Essex.  .  .  .  HI.  A  Declaration  of  his 
Majesties  Revenue.  .  .  .  IV.  The  Commissions  and  Warrants  for  the 

burning  of  two  Hereticks Also  two  Pardons,  the  one  for  Theophilus 

Higgons,  the  other  for  S"'  Eustace  Harte.  Londoti,  Printed  for  Michael 
Sparke  at  the  Sign  of  tlie  Bible  in  Green-Arbour.     165 1.    4to. 

Frontispiece  and  explanation,  2  leaves;  printed  title,  i  leaf;  a,  with  "The 
Stationer  to  the  Reader,"  2  leaves  ;  a  (repeated),  "  A  compleat  table,"  4  leaves  ; 
B — Z  in  fours  ;  Z*,  4  leaves;  "An  Abstract  or  brief  Declaration"  and  contents, 
2  leaves  ;  A* — I*  in  fours  ;  Aa*  2 — Cc*  2  in  fours. 

In  the  engraved  title  and  in  the  printed  one  to  the  second  part,  this  curious 
and  uncommon  work,  of  which  no  accurate  description  seems  to  have  been  hitherto 
given,  the  publication  is  called,  "  Trvth  Brought  to  light  and  discouered  by  Time . . ." 
In  the  present  copy  are  inserted  portraits  of  Sir  Thomas  Overbury  and  of  the  Earl 
of  Somerset  and  his  wife. 

JAMES,  Thomas.  The  Strange  and  Dangerovs  Voyage  of  Cap- 
taine  Thomas  lames,  in  his  intended  Discouery  of  the  Northwest 
Passage  into  the  South  Sea.  Wherein  the  Miseries  indvred,  both 
Going,  Wintering,  Returning ;  and  the  Rarities  obserued,  both  Philo- 
sophicall  and  Mathematical!,  are  related  in  this  lournall  of  it.  Pub- 
lished by  His  Maiesties  command.  To  which  are  added,  a  Plat  or 
Card  for  the  Sayling  in  those  Seas.  Diuers  little  Tables  of  the  Author's, 
of  the  Variation  of  the  Compass,  &c.  With  An  Appendix  concerning 
Longitude,  by  Master  Henry  Gellibrand  Astronomy  Reader  of  Gresham 
Colledge  in  London.  And  An  Aduise  concerning  the  Philosophy  of 
these  late  Discoueryes,  By  W.  W.  London,  Printed  by  John  Legatt,  for 
John  Partridge.     1633.    4^0-    R-  ^l- 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank.  A — S  in  fours  ;  Q  4  blank. 
Also  a  folding-map,  containing  a  portrait  of  Captain  James,  a:t.  40. 

Dedicated  to  the  king.    After  the  dedication  occurs  an  epistle  addressed  "  To 


764  7 A  ME  SON— 7 A  N  UA . 

my  worthy  friend  and  fellow-Templar  Captaine  lames,"  by  Thomas  Nash,  of  the 
Inner  Temple,  author  of  the  "  (2uatcrnio,or  a  fourefold  Way  to  a  happie  hfe,"  1633. 
From  Mr.  Corser's  library. 

JAMESON,  John.  Etymological  Dictionary  of  the  Scottish  Lan- 
guage, with  the  Supplement.    Edinburgh.     1808-25.    4  vols.    4to. 

JAMIESON,  T.  H.  Notice  of  the  Life  and  Writings  of  Alexander 
Barclay,  the  Translator  of  Brandt's  Ship  of  Fools.  Privately  printed. 
1874.    4to.    Large  paper. 

Presentation  copy  from  Mr.  Jamieson. 

JANSS,  Lucas.  Spieghel  der  Zeevaerdt,  vande  nauigatie  der 
Westersche  Zee,  innehoudende  alle  de  Custen  van  Vranckrijck  Spaignen 
en  t'principaelstc  deel  van  Engelandt,  in  diuersche  Zee  Caerten  be- 
grepen,  met  den  gebruijcke  van  dien.  G/icdnict  tot  Leydcii  by  Christof- 
fel  Plantijn.     1585.    2  vols.    Folio. 

Vol.  I.  Title  and  preliminaries,  3  leaves;  B,  C,  D,  6  leaves  each;  maps,  1-23. 
Vol.  2.  Title  and  preface,  2  leaves ;  maps  i.-.\xi. ;  between  maps  xx.  and  .\xi.  is  a 
broadside  marked  xx.  ;  then  follow  4  leaves  of  letterpress,  the  last  leaf  being  direc- 
tions to  the  bookbinder. 

[JANSSE,  Lucas.]  La  Messe  trouvee  dans  I'Escriture.  \_Sans 
/leu.]  1658.    Sm.  8vo. 

Twenty  leaves,  including  title. 

"  Dialogue  plein  de  verve  satirique  entre  un  Cardinal  et  le  Pape  Innocent  X,  oil 
I'auteur  tourne  en  ridicule  le  pcre  Vd ron  qui,  dans  une  ^dit.  de  la  Bible  de  Louvain, 
imp.  Ji  Paris,  en  1646,  avait  fait  mettre  en  gros  caracteres :  Eux  disant  la  messe  au 
Seigneur,  comma  la  traduction  fiddle  de  ces  mots  du  XIIl'=cliap.  des  Apotres  : 
AuTQvpyovi'Ttnv  ck  ai'Tuti'  Ti^  K)'(0((;j." — t/tici^j  Ld  rydncc  ProtcstiJtltc, 

JANUA,  Joannes  Balbusde.  [Catholicon.]  [Colophon.]  ^///j- 
simi  presidio  cuius  nutu  infantium  Ungiie  fiunt  diserte.  Qui  (p  niio  sepe 
puulis  rcuelat  quod  sapicniibus  eclat.  Hie  liber  cgregius.  eatholicon.  dnice 
inearnaeiouis  annis  Mcecclx  Alma  in  tirbc  viaguittina  naeionis  inelite 
germanice.  Quat/i  dci  elcmeneia  tarn  alto  ingenij  lumine.  dono  tf  gtuito. 
ceteris  terrain  nacionibus  prefcrre.  illustrarc  (f  dignatus  est  Nan  calami. 
stili.  aut  penne  suffragio.  JJ  ntira  patronau  formaV  §  concordia  pporeione 
et  modulo,  iuiprcssus  at(p  confectus  est.  Hinc  tibi  sancte  pater  7iato  cum 
Jlamiuc  sacro.  Laus  et  honor  dlio  trino  tribttatiir  et  uno  Ecclesie  laude 
libro  hoc  catlwlice  plaudc  Qui  laudarc  piam  semper  non  linque  mariam 
Deo.  Gracias.    Folio.    Bound  in  2  vols.    R.  m. 

Editio  princeps.     The  fourth  book  printed  with  a  date. 

These  volumes  were  formerly  in  the  MacCarthy  library,  but  the  copy  does  not 
appear  in  the  sale  catalogue,  as  it  had  been  previously  exchanged  for  one  printed 
on  vellum. 

Licipit  summa  que  vocatur  catholicon  edita  a  fratre  iohanne 

do  ianua  ordls  fratit  pdicato-^.    \Sine  loco  aut  auuo.]    Folio.    BL.  M. 


7  A  PA  N—JENKIN.  765 

This  is  the  edition  described  by  Hain,  No.  2251.  It  consists  of  370  leaves  with 
sixty-seven  lines  to  the  page.  It  is  from  the  press  of  the  printer  who  used  the  pecu- 
liarly formed  capital  R  so  well  known  to  students  of  fifteenth  century  typography. 
By  Hain  and  other  bibliographers,  books  containing  this  peculiar  letter  were  attri- 
buted to  the  press  of  Mentelin,  but  it  is  now  generally  allowed  that  it  cannot  with 
any  certainty  be  said  who  was  the  printer  of  them. 

JAPAN.  The  Theater  of  laponia's  Constancy  :  In  which  an  Hun- 
dred &  Eighteene  Glorious  Martyrs  suffered  Death  for  Christ  in  the 
yeare  of  our  Lord  1622.  Also  A  briefe  Relation  of  the  many  and  won- 
derfull  Miracles  it  hath  pleased  God  lately  to  worke  by  the  Merits 
and  Intercession  of  S.  Ignativs,  Founder  of  the  Society  of  lesvs,  at 
Memeborga  a  Towne  in  Spayne,  in  the  moneths  of  Aprill  and  May,  of 
the  yeare  1623.  Both  faithfully  Translated  out  of  the  Spanish  Originalls, 
latelj'-  printed  at  Madrid  ....  Pennissu  Superioriim  1624.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours. 

JEAN  aux  Sept  Eglises  d'Asie  ou  Epitre  d'un  reforme  aux  peuples 
reform^s.    Patmos.    1759.    4to.    The  edges  uncut. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  20  leaves  ;  pp.  \-\ii. 

A  very  curious  and  remarkable  work,  of  which  no  notice  has  been  discovered. 
It  was  printed  either  in  Germany  or  in  Switzerland,  but  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  published.  The  seven  churches  of  Asia  and  their  distinctive  characters,  as 
described  by  St.  John,  are  here  applied  to  the  Reformed  Churches  :  Ephestis  to  the 
French  ;  Smyrna  to  the  Dutch ;  Pergamos  to  Germany ;  Thyatira  to  Great  Britain  ; 
Sardis  to  Hungary  ;  Philadelphia  to  Geneva  ;  Laodicea  to  the  Swiss  and  the  Gri- 
sons.  And  in  the  Summary  it  is  stated  that  "  la  nation  Britannique  et  celle  de 
Prusse  doivent  fonder  le  royaume  des  Cieux  que  nous  attendons,  une  socidtd  des 
Saints,"  see  pp.  61-2. — MS.  note  by  Mr.  C.  J.  Stewart. 

JEAN  DE  BOURBON.  Histoire  de  Jean  de  Bourbon,  Prince  de 
Carency,  par  I'auteur  des  memoires  et  Voyage  d'Espagne.  A  la  Haye. 
1692.    Sm.  8vo.    Y.  M. 

JEMSON,  Nathaniel.  A  True  and  Perfect  Account  Of  a  Strange 
and  Dreadful  Apparition  Which  lately  Infested  and  Sunk  a  Ship  bound 
for  New-Castle,  Called,  The  Hope-well  of  London.  And  of  the  Strange 
Deliverance  of  John  Pye  Master,  and  Nine  Men  more ;  Who  were  all 
Examined  and  Sworn  to  the  Truth  of  the  following  Relation  before 
Justice  Wood  of  London.  With  Allowance  ....  London,  Printed 
for  Robert  Clavel,  i6j2.    4to. 

Six  leaves,  including  a  "  Postcript." 

JENKIN  OF  WALES  his  Love  Course  and  Perambulation. 
An  Early  Droll  performed  at  the  Red  Bull  Theatre  about  the  Year 
1647.    Edited  by  J.  O.  Halliwell.    London,  1861.    Sm.  8vo. 

Thirty  copies  reprinted  from  the  "  Wits,  or  Sport  upon  Sport,"  1672. 


766  7ENNER. 

JENNER,  Thomas.  A  Work  For  none  but  Angels  &  Men  that 
is  To'be  able'to  look  into,  and  to  know  our  selves.  Or  a  book  Shew- 
ing what  the  Soule  Is,  Subsisting  and  having  its  operations  without 
the  Body  ;  its  more  then  a  perfection  or  reflection  of  the  Sense,  or 
Temperature  of  Humours  ;  Not  traduced  from  the  Parents  subsisting 
by  itself  without  the  Body  :  How  she  exercises  her  power  in  the  Body 
the  vegetative  or  quickning  power  of  the  Senses.  Of  the  Imagination 
or  Common  sense,  the  Phantasie,  Sensative  Memory,  Passions,  Motion 
of  Life,  the  Locall  Motion,  Intellectuall  powers  of  the  soul.  Of  the 
Wit,  Understanding,  Reason,  Opinion,  Judgement,  Power  of  Will,  and 
the  Relations  betwixt  Wit  and  Will.  Of  the  Intellectual  memory, 
which  is  the  Souls  store-house,  wherein  all  that  is  laid  up  therein, 
remaineth  there  even  after  death  and  cannot  be  lost ;  that  the  Soule 
is  Immortall,  aud  cannot  dye,  cannot  be  destroyed,  her  cause  ceaseth 
not,  violence  nor  time  cannot  destroy  her ;  and  all  Objections  answered 
to  the  contrary.  Thomas  Jenner  has  lineas  composuit.  Infcelix  giii 
pauca  sapit  sperniiqiie  doceri.  [Quot.  from  Psalm  139.]  London: 
Printed  by  M.  S.  for  Thomas  Jemier,  at  the  South-Entrance  of  the 
Royall  Exchange.    165—.    4to.    Plates. 

A— F  in  fours.  On  E  iii  is  a  new  title,  "  What  Heaven  is,  vindicated  From 
the  Vulgar  mistakes,  and  gross  conceivings  of  many,"  &c.,  &c.  There  are  eight 
plates,  which  represent: — i.  Understanding.  2.  Memory.  3.  The  sense  of  Smell. 
4.  Hearing.     5.  Seeing.     6.  Will.     7.  Feeling.     8.  Fancy. 

The  work  appears  to  be  a  paraphrase  in  prose  of  Sir  John  Davies'  poem  "  Nosce 
Teipsum."  In  the  British  Museum  is  a  book,  dated  1653,  with  the  same  title,  except 
for  some  slight  verbal  differences,  and  with  precisely  the  same  imprint.  It  is, how- 
ever, an  entirely  different  work,  being  in  fact  a  reprint  of  the  poem  "  Nosce  Teip- 
sum," with  little  variation  from  the  original  text,  except  that  there  are  many  verses 
omitted.  This  prose  version  is  evidently  a  later  publication,  but  the  last  figure  of 
the  date  being  rubbed  out  in  this  copy,  it  is  impossible  to  fix  it  e.xactly,  as  no  other 
can  be  found.  It  is  clearly  later  than  1653,  as  the  plates  are  much  more  worn 
than  in  the  book  mentioned  above,  and  one,  in  which  "  Tasting  "  is  represented  by 
a  female  gallant  smoking  a  pipe,  is  omitted.  The  reprint  of  the  poem  under  this 
title  is  mentioned  by  Lowndes  both  under  "Work"  and  under  "  Davies,"  but  no 
bibliographer  seems  to  have  any  knowledge  of  this  prose  rendering. 

From  the  libraries  of  Sir  F.  Freeling  and  Mr.  Corser. 

A  Book  of  the  Continuation  of  Forreign  Passages.    That  is, 


Of  the  Peace  made  between  this  Common-wealth,  &  that  of  the  united 
Provinces  of  the  Netherlands,  with  all  the  Articles  of  that  Peace. 
Apr.  5.  1654.  And  the  Articles  of  Peace,  Friendship  and  Entercourse 
agreed  between  England  and  Sweden,  in  a  Treaty  at  Vpsall.  May  9. 

1654.  As  also  The  substance  of  the  Articles  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace 
betwixt  England  and  France.    Given  at  White  Hall  the  20  of  Novemb  : 

1655.  From  Generall  Blakes  Fleet,  The  Turks  in  Argier  doe  consent  to 
deliver  up  all  the  English  slaves,  and  desire  a  firme  Peace  for  ever : 
And  in  Tunnis  Road  we  battered  their  Castle  of  Porta-ferina,  and  set 


JENNER.  J67 

on    fire  their   fleet   in    the    Harbour.     Apr.    9,   1655.    Moreover,  An 

attempt  on  the  Island  of  Jamaica,  and  taking  the  Town  of  St.  Jago  de 

la  viga  ....  May  10,  1655.    With  a  full  Description  thereof    With 

a  true  Narrative  of  the  late  Successe  which  it  hath  pleased  God  to 

give  to  some  part  of  the  Fleet  of  this  Common  wealth,  the  Speaker, 

the  Bridgwater,  the  Plimouth  Frigots,  against  the  King  of  Spains  West 

India  Fleet  ....   1656 London  :  Printed  by  M.  S.  for  Thomas 

Jemier  at  the  South  entrance  of  the  Roy  all  Exchange.   1657.  4to.  Plates. 

G.  M. 

A — H  in  fours.     The  plates  are  on  the  letterpress. 

JENNER,  Thomas.  Former  Ages  Never  Heard  of,  and  After 
Ages  will  admire.  Or,  A  Brief  Review  of  the  most  Materiall  Parlia- 
mentary Transactions,  Beginning,  November  3.  1640.  Wherein  the 
Remarkeable  Passages  both  of  their  Civil  and  Martiall  Affaires,  are 
continued  unto  this  present  Year.  Published  as  a  Breviary,  leading  all 
along  successively,  as  they  fell  out  in  their  severall  years  ....  For 
Information  of  such  as  are  altogether  ignorant  of  the  rise  and  pro- 
gresse  of  these  Times.  A  Work  worthy  to  be  kept  in  Record,  and 
communicated  to  Posterity  ....  London  :  Printed  by  M.  S.  for  Tho  : 
Jenner,  at   the  South-Entrance  of  the  Royall  Exchange.     1656.    4to. 

Plates. 

A — H  in  fours.     The  plates  are  on  the  letterpress. 

A  Book  of  Drawing,  Limning,  Washing  Or  Colouring  of  Maps 

and  Prints  :  and  the  Art  of  Painting,  with  the  Names  and  Mixtures  of 
Colours  used  by  the  Picture-Drawers.  Or,  The  Young-mans  Time 
well  Spent.  In  which,  He  hath  the  Ground-work  to  make  him  fit  for 
doing  any  thing  by  hand,  when  he  is  able  to  draw  well.  By  the  Use  of 
this  work,  you  may  Draw  all  parts  of  a  Man,  Leggs,  Amies,  Hands 
and  Feet,  severally,  and  together.    And  Directions  for  Birds,  Beasts, 

Landskips,  Ships,  and  the  like By  Hammer  and  Hand  all 

Arts  doe  stand.  Infoelix  qui  Pauca  Sapit,  spernitque  Doceri.  London. 
Printed  by  M.  Simmons,  for  Thomas  Jenner ;  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his 
Shop,  at  the  South  Enterance  of  the  Royal  Exchange.  1653.  Folio. 
Plates. 

The  first  seven  leaves,  including  the  title,  have  no  signatures.  Then  follow  E — L 
in  twos,  but  the  signatures  are  placed  on  the  verso  of  the  leaf,  instead  of  being  on 
the  recto  as  usual.  On  the  recto  of  the  leaf  following  the  title  is  a  large  copperplate 
engraving  of  Albert  Durer,  with  the  inscription  beneath  it,  "A  Booke  of  the  Art  of 
Drawing  according  to  y  order  of  Albert  Durer,  Jean  Cozijn  and  other  excellent 
Picture-makers,  describing  y  true  proportions  of  Men,  women  &  Children.  Johes 
Rotenhamer  pin.\it.  Francisco  De  Laram  sculpsit.  Are  to  bee  sould  by  Thomas 
Geele  .  .  .  ."  Another  of  the  prints  bears  on  it,  "  Compton  Holland  e.xcudit."  From 
the  worn  state  of  the  plates  it  is  evident  that  Jenner  had  bought  the  plates  of 
another  book,  or  other  books,  and  made  up  this  one  with  them.  All  the  plates  are 
printed  on  the  letterpress. 


768  JENNINGS— JESTS. 

JENNINGS,  Samuel.  Certain  Certificates  Received  from  Ame- 
rica On  behalf  of  Samuel  Jennings,  Tending  to  clear  him  from  Scandals, 
Cast  on  him  by  George  Keith,  and  others  of  his  Opposers.  Made 
publick  by  John  Pennington.  [Quotation  from  Prov.  x.  i8.]  Lotidofi 
Printed,  and  Sold  by  T.  Soivlc,  near  the  Meeting- Ho2ise  in  White-Hart- 
Court  in  Gracious-Street  and  at  the  Crooked-Billet  in  Holywell-Lane 
near  Shored  itch,  1695.    Sm.  8vo. 

A— C  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

In  a  postscript  two  further  charges  against  Jennings  are  disposed  of,  one  being 
that  he  had  punished  a  man  and  his  boy  for  having  called  him  a  "  Prick-Louse 
Taylor,"  and  the  other  that  he  had  chastised  a  female  servant,  naked  in  bed,  with 
a  horsewhip. 

JENNINGS,  Theo.  Truths  Returne  :  In  answer  to  a  Malignant 
Pamphlet,  pretended  To  be  written  by  a  most  Orthodox,  Moderate, 
and  judicious  Divine,  a  banished  Minister  of  this  miserable  Kingdom  ; 
To  a  Vcrtuous  Ladj',  who  (for  the  exercise  of  her  Devotion)  built  a 
Closet,  wherein  to  secure  the  most  sacred  Book  of  Common-Prayer 
from  the  view  and  violence  of  the  enemies  thereof.  Sectaries  and 
Schismatiques  of  this  Kingdome.  Being  printed  together,  that  thereby 
the  great  difference  may  appear,  betweene  Prayer  reall,  and  pretended  : 
a  forme  of  Godlinesse,  and  the  power  thereof  [Quotations.]  London, 
Printed  by  7.  C.    1646.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    In  verse.    From  Mr.  Skegg's  and  Mr.  Corser's  collections. 

JENYNS,  SOAME.  The  Objections  to  the  Taxation  of  our 
American  Colonies  by  the  Legislature  of  Great  Britain,  Briefly  Con- 
sidered.   London :  printed  for  J.  Wilkie  .  .  .   1765.    4to. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

JESTS.  A  Banqvet  Of  Jests.  Or  Change  of  Cheare.  Being  a 
Collection  of  Moderne  Jests.  Witty  Jeeres.  Pleasant  Taunts.  Merry 
Tales.  The  fifth  Impression,  with  many  Additions.  London,  Printed 
for  Richard  Royston,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  SJioppe  in  Ivie-Lane  at 
the  signe  of  the  Angell.    1639.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — I  in  twelves,  title  on  A  2. 

Brand's  copy,  and  the  same  which  was  marked  £■]  ys.  in  Rodd's  Catalogue 
for  1 82 1.  Inserted  is  a  tracing  of  the  portrait  of  Archee  by  T.  Cecill,  belonging  to 
a  later  edition  of  the  work  ;  and  on  the  back  of  it,  in  Brand's  handwriting  :  "  Traced 
Nov.  I"  1791  by  John  Brand  at  Strawberry  Hill,  from  the  very  rare  Original  in 
the  Collection  of  the  Hon'"''  Horace  Walpole." 

A  Banqvet  of  Jests :  or.  Change  of  Cheare.  Being  a  col- 
lection, of  Moderne  lests  .  .  .  The  Second  Part  newly  published. 
London,  Printed  by  M.  Flesher  for  Richard  Royston  dwelling  in  Ivy 
Lane.    1633.    Sm.  8vo. 


y£STS.  ;69 

A — G  1 1  in  twelves. 

This  is  the  earliest  known  impression  of  the  second  part.  It  is  bound  with  the 
fifth  edition  of  Part  i.  Preceding  the  title  are  some  verses  headed,  "  The  Booke  to 
the  Covrteovs  Reader,"  which  run  thus  : — 

"  My  eldest  Brother,  having  had  the  grace, 
Of  three  Impressions  (late)  in  two  yeares  space, 
Now  ready  for  the  fourth, " 

But  at  the  conclusion  of  the  volume  we  find  the  lines  repeated  and  thus  altered  : — 

"  My  eldest  Brother  having  had  the  grace. 

Of  foure  Impressions  (sold)  in  three  yeares  space. 

Now  ready  for  the  fifth, " 

The  fourth  edition  of  Part  i.  is  dated  1634,  the  first,  1630;  but  the  second  and  third 
are  undescribed. 

JESTS.  A  Banquet  of  Jests  New  and  old.  Or  Change  of  Cheare. 
Being  a  Collection  of  Modern  Jests,  Witty  Jeeres,  Pleasant  Taunts, 
Merrie  Tales.  The  last  Edition,  much  enlarged.  London,  Printed  for 
R.  Royston,  at  the  Angell  in  Ivy  Lane.    1657.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — K  4  in  twelves,  including  a  full-length  print  of  Archse  Armstrong,  by  T. 
Cecill,  as  a  frontispiece. 

From  Mr.  Geo.  Daniel's  library. 

A  Choice  Banquet  of  Witty  Jests,  Rare  Fancies,  and  Pleasant 

Novels.  Fitted  for  all  the  Lovers  of  Wit,  Mirth,  and  Eloquence. 
Being  an  Addition  to  Archee's  Jests,  taken  out  of  his  Closet ;  but 
never  publisht  by  him  in  his  life  time.  London :  Printed  by  T.  J. 
and  arc  to  be  sold  by  Peter  Bring,  at  the  Snn  in  the  Poultry.  1660. 
Sm.  8vo.    Portrait. 

*,  8  leaves,  including  the  full-length  portrait  of  Archee  Armstrong  before  the  title  ; 
A — I  in  eights. 

An  exceedingly  rare  little  volume.  This  copy  was  obtained  at  the  dispersion,  a 
few  years  ago,  of  the  Lee  Warly  library,  near  Canterbury. 

The  Complaisant  Companion,  or  New  Jests ;  Witty  Re- 
parties  ;  Bulls  ;  Rhodomontado's  ;  and  pleasant  Novels. 

If  these  true  Jests  dont  ev'ry  humour  fit. 
Let  Fops,  like  me,  ne're  nibble  more  at  Wit. 

London,  Printed  by  H.  B.[rome]  and  sold  by  most  Book-sellers.  1674. 
Sm.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves ;  B — G  in  eights ;  Aa — li  4  in  eights. 

Mr.  George  Smith's  copy.  The  "  Conclusion,"  two  pages,  is  in  verse.  On  the 
last  leaf  of  sig.  Ee  is  "  A  Bull  Prologue  :  Supposedly  writ  by  S"'  W.  D.[avenant]." 

England's  Jests  Refin'd  and  Improv'd.  Being  a  Choice  Col- 
lection of  the  Merriest  Jests,  Smartest  Repartees,  Wittiest  Sayings, 
and  most  Notable  Bulls,  yet  Extant.    With  many  New  Ones,  never 

4  T 


770  JESTS-yESUITS. 

before  Printed.  To  which  are  added,  XIV.  Ingenious  Characters 
drawn  to  the  Life  ....  The  Second  Edition  with  Additions.  Cal- 
culated for  the  Innocent  Spending  of  the  Winter  Evenings,  By  H. 
C.[rouch  .=']  Loudon,  Printed  for  John  Harris,  at  the  Harroiv  against 
the  Church  in  the  Poidtrey.    1687.    Sm.  8vo. 

A— H  in  twelves,  besides  an  engraved  frontispiece  containing  portraits  of  Archee, 
Will.  Summers,  &c.    The  last  five  leaves  are  occupied  by  advertisements. 

JESTS.  Teagueland  Jests,  or  Bogg-witticisms.  In  Two  Parts. 
The  first,  Being  a  compleat  Collection  of  the  most  Learned  Bulls,  Ela- 
borate Quibbles,  and  Wise  Sayings  of  some  of  the  Natives  of  Teague- 
land, till  the  Year  16S8.    The  Second  contains  many  comical  Stories. 

....  Never  before  in  Print London,  Printed  in  the  Year  1690. 

Sm.  8vo. 

A— I  6  in  twelves,  the  first  leaf  blank,  besides  a  frontispiece. 
In  the  preface  a  third  and  fourth  part  are  promised  if  the  first  and  second  find 
a  favourable  reception,  but  no  more  is  known  to  have  appeared. 

London  Jests:  Or,  A  Collection  of  the  Choicest  Joques  and 


Repartees,  Out  of  the  most  Celebrated  Authors,  Ancient  and  Modern. 

With  an  Addition  of  above  One  Hundred,  never  before  Printed 

The  Second  Edition.    London:  ....   1735.    Sm.  Svo. 

A — G  in  twelves,  including  a  frontispiece. 

The  first  edition  of  this  miscellany  appeared  in  1686,  but  there  was  one  in  1726. 

Cambridge  Jests,  Or  Witty  Alarums  for  Melancholy  Spirits. 

By  a  Lover  of  Ha,  Ha,  He.    London  :  Printed  for  R.  Ware,  ....  1742. 
Sm.  8vo. 

A — F  in  twelves. 

Jemmy  Buck's  Witty  Jester;  Or,  The  Merry  Mortals  Com- 
panion ;  Being  an  entire  New  and  Curious  Collection  of  Excellent 
Jests,  Whimsicall  Stories  .  .  .  Calculated  for  the  Taste  of  the  merry 
Fellows  of  the  present  Age  .  .  .  London :  Printed  for  J.  Cooke  .  .  . 
[About  1760.]     Sm.  Svo. 

Sixty  pages,  besides  a  frontispiece. 

JESUITS.     Constitutiones  Societatis  Jesv  Cum  earum  Declara- 
tionibus.     Roma;  In  Collegia  eiusdeni  Societatis.     Cum  facilitate  Siipe- 
riorum.    Anno  Domini  MDLXXXHI.    Sm.  Svo.    BR.  M. 
Pp.  I -3 1 1  including  title;  index,  34  leaves. 

Ratio  atque  Institutio  studiorum.    Romce.  In  Collegia  Soc. 

Jcsu.     1 591.    Sm.  Svo.    BR.  M. 

Title  and  preface,  2  leaves  ;  pp.  1-332  ;  imprint,  i  leaf. 


JESUITS.  771 

JESUITS.  The  Jesuits  and  the  Sorbonne.  A  collection  of  thirteen 
pieces  bound  in  one  volume.    Sm.  8vo. 

Le  Plaidoyer  de  M.  Pasquier  pour  I'Universitd  de  Paris  Deffenderesse.  Centre 
les  Jesuites  demandeurs  en  requeste.    Paris,  Abel  VAngelier,  1594. 

Plaidoyd  de  feu  Maistre  Pierre  \'ersoris  Advocat  en  Parlement.  Pour  les  Pre- 
bstres  &  Escoliers  du  College  de  Clermont  fond^  en  I'Universite  de  Paris  de- 
mandeurs.   Centre  ladicte  University  deffenderesse.    1594. 

Plaidoy^  de  feu  M.  I'Advocat  Du  Mesnil  [avec  I'Advis  de  I'Assemblde  du  Clergd 
de  la  France].    Paris,  Abel  I' Aiigelier,  1594. 

Caroli  IVIolinai  jurisconsulti .  .  .  Consultatio.  An  Jesuistae  sint  recipiendi  in  regno 
Francise  &  admittendi  in  Universitate  Parisiensi.    1594. 

Histoire  prodigieuse  d'un  detestable  parricide  entrepris  en  la  personne  du  Roy, 
par  Pierre  Barriere,  dit  La  Barre,  et  comme  sa  Majestd  en  fut  miraculeusement 
garentie.     1594. 

Plaidoyer  de  M.  Antoine  Amauld  ....  pour  I'Universit^.  Paris,  Matnert 
Patisson,  1594. 

Jacobi  Ambrosii  Academise  Rectoris  ....  Orationes  duae  ....  pro  universis 
Academise  ordinibus  in  Claro-montenses  qui  se  Jesuitas  dicunt.  Paris,  Mettayer 
et  L Huillier,  1 594. 

Defenses  de  ceux  du  College  de  Clermont  .  .  .  ensemble  les  Lettres  Pattentes  du 
Roy.    1594. 

Passeratii,  Jo.,  Praefatiuncula  in  disputationem  de  Ridiculis  qua  est  apud  Cice- 
ronem  in  libro  secundo  de  Oratore.  Lutetia,  Mamert  Patisson  .  .  .  in  ojficina  Rob. 
Stephani.    1 594. 

Discours  veritables  des  deux  derni&res  conspirations  &  attentats  sur  la  personne 
de  la  Royne  d'Angleterre,  le  tout  par  les  moyen  des  Agents  d'Espagne,  et  induction 
des  Jdsuites.    Pai-is,  Gidllatime  Aiivray,  1595. 

Discours  d'Estat  sur  la  Blessure  du  Roy.  Paris,  Claude  de  Mont>-'a:il  fi^  Jean 
Richer,  1595. 

Plaidoyd  de  M.  L.  DoUd  .  .  .  pour  les  Curez  de  la  ville  de  Paris  demandeurs, 
contre  les  Jdsuites  defendeurs  .  .  Avec  les  Arrests  de  la  Cour  de  Parlement  contre 
lesdicts  Jesuites.    Paris,  M.  Patisson  .  .  chez  Robert  Estienne,  1595. 

L'Exil  et  Passe-port  des  Jdsuites.  Four  leaves  of  satirical  verse,  [i  595.] 
The  first  four  pieces  were  the  most  important  and  celebrated  documents  in  the 
suit  brought  in  1564  by  the  Jesuits  against  the  Sorbonne,  to  obtain  recognition  as 
a  collegiate  body  by  the  University,  and  in  which,  in  spite  of  apparent  failures, 
they  managed  to  gain  their  point,  and  establish  their  lectures  and  schools  of  in- 
struction under  royal  authority.  Pasquier  (whose  pleading  gives  a  curious  history 
and  analysis  of  the  order),  Du  Mesnil,  and  Charles  Du  Moulin  opposed  the  new 
sect  (as  they  were  considered)  with  great  ability  and  bitterness;  but  the  Jesuits 
succeeded  in  flinging  aspersions  of  Huguenotry  on  the  two  former,  and  as  for  Du 
Moulin,  he  was  treated  as  a  virtual  heretic  until  his  death.  The  Society  had  grown 
so  important  that  when  Henry  IV.  entered  Paris  in  triumph  in  1594,  it  was  con- 
sidered advisable  by  the  University  to  renew  the  contest  by  publishing  the  former 
pleadings  of  Pasquier  (the  old  man  sanctioning  and  approving  of  it),  and  Du  Mesnil, 
along  with  the  Jesuit  advocate's  reply  to  Pasquier  and  Du  Moulin's  legal  opinion. 
To  these  they  added  new  matter,  as  will  be  seen  by  the  above  hst,  some  of  which 
is  very  curious  and  interesting.  The  preface  to  Estienne  Pasquier's  Plaidoyer, 
by  the  publisher,  states  that  the  Sorbonne  advocate  had  been  a  true  prophet 
of  all  the  ills  brought  on  by  the  Society.  The  only  result  was  that  the  Jesuits 
were  banished  for  a  few  years.  They  returned  in  1604,  and  became  stronger  than 
ever. 


772  JESUITS-JEWELL. 

JESUITS  A  Short  Narrative  Of  the  Discovery  of  a  College  of 
Jesuits,  At  a'riace  called  the  Come,  In  th^^ounty  of  Hereford  : 
Which  was  sent  up  unto  the  Right  Honorable,  The  Lords  Assembled 
in  Parliament,  at  the  End  of  the  last  Sessions,  by  the  .  bishop  of 
Hereford  .  .  To  which  is  added  A  true  Relation  of  the  Knavery 

of  Father  Lewis,  The  Pretended  Bishop  of  Landaffe  ;  Now  a  Prisoner 
in  Monmouth  Gaol.    London,  Printed  by  T.  N.for  Charles  Harper  .  .  . 

1679.    4to. 

A— C  in  fours,  the  first  leaf  having  the  imprimatur,  the  last  blank. 

JESUS  Diego  de.    Conceptos  Espiritvales  :  y  en  particular  de  la 

contempIacion,ynegacionpropia En  Madrid,  par  Dona  Maria 

Rey,  Viuda  de  Diego  Diaz  de  la  Carrera.    1668.    Sm.  sqr.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  folios  1-247. 

'•  Los  Conceptos  de  Fr.  Diego  de  Jesus  se  escaparon  d  las  investigaciones  de 
Nic.  Antonio." — Salvd. 

JEWELL,  John,  Bishop  of  Salisbury.  The  Tr\'e  Copies  of  the 
Letters  betwene  the  reuerend  father  in  God  lohn  Bisshop  of  Sarum 
and  D.  Cole,  vpon  occasion  of  a  Sermon  that  the  said  Bishop  preached 
before  the  Ouenes  Maiestie,  and  hyr  most  honorable  Cousayle.  1560. 
Set  forthe  and  allowed,  according  to  the  order  apointed  in  the  Quenes 
Maiesties  Iniunctions.  Cu  gratia  ....  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at 
London,  by  John  Day,  diuelling  oner  Aldcrsgate,  beneath  Saint  Martins. 
Cum  gratia  ....  These  bokes  are  to  be  solde  at  his  shop  vnder  tlie  Gate. 
Sm.  8vo.   Black  letter. 

A— R  4  in  eights,  R  4  blank  ;  the  Sermon,  A— H  in  eights,  last  two  leaves 
blank. 

An  Apologie,  or  aunswer  in  defence  of  the  Church  of  England, 

concerninge  the  state  of  Religion  vsed  in  the  same.  Newly  set  forth 
in  Latine,  and  nowe  translated  into  Englishe.  [Quot.  from  Rom.  i.] 
Londini,  Anno  Domini  M.D.  LXII.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  Lon- 
don by  Reginalde  Wolfe.    Anno  i$62.    4X.0.    Black  letter. 

A — S  2  in  fours  ;  A  ii  and  S  ii  are  misprinted  A  iii  and  S  iii. 

First  edition  in  English.  It  was  licensed,  without  the  exact  date  being  given, 
sometime  in  1562,  in  the  following  curious  terms:  "  Recevyd  of  master  Wolfe  for 
his  lycense  for  pryntinge  of  a  polige  in  englesshe  .  .  .  xij"*."  See  Arber's  "  Tran- 
script," vol.  i.,  p.  73  b.  There  is  no  prefatory  matter  and  no  indication  of  the  trans- 
lator. In  1564  Wolfe  again  printed  the  book  in  English,  but  this  time  there  is  a 
prefatory  address  to  Anne,  Lady  Bacon,  as  the  translator,  by  Archbishop  Parker. 
Though  the  text  differs  materially  as  to  the  language  throughout  the  two  editions, 
there  are  so  many  phrases  exactly  the  same  that  it  appears  most  probable  that  the 
author  of  the  1564  translation  was  also  the  author  of  that  of  1562.  The  language 
of  the  edition  of  1 564  is  less  forcible,  but  what  would  probably  have  been  considered 
more  polished.  That  the  printer  did  not  obtain  another  license  for  the  book,  and 
that  the  same  printer  was  employed  for  both  editions,  point  also  to  the  conclusion 
that  they  were  the  work  of  the  same  person. 


JEWELL— JOHANNES    DAMASCENUS.        773 

JEWELL,  John,  Bishop  of  Salisbury.  A  Replie  vnto  M.  Har- 
dinges  Answeare :  By  perusinge  whereof  the  discrete,  and  diligent 
Reader  may  easily  see,  the  weake,  and  vnstable  groundes  of  the 
Romaine  Religion,  whiche  of  late  hath  bene  accompted  Catholique. 

By  lohn  lewel  Bishoppe  of  Sarisburie Imprinted  at  London 

in  Fleetestreaie,  at  the  signe  of  the  Black e  Olipliantc,  by  Henry  Wykes. 
Anno.  i$6i).     With  special  Priiiilege.    Folio.    Black  letter. 
f,  6  leaves  ;  *,  6  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B — Ili  3  in  sixes. 

A  Defence  of  the  Apologie  of  the  Churche  of  Englande, 

Conteininge  an  Answeare  to  a  certaine  Booke  lately  set  foorthe  by 
M.  Hardinge,  and  Entituled,  A  Confutation  of  &c.  By  lohn  Jewel 
Bishop  of  Sarisburie.  [Quotation  from  3  Esdras,  4.]  Iviprintcd  at 
London  in  Fleetestreate,  at  the  sigiie  of  tlie  Elcphante,  by  Henry  Wykes. 
Anno  I ^62.  3j.  Octobris.  Cttm  Gratia  i^  Priiiilegio,  .  .  .  Folio.  Black 
letter. 

A — B  in  si.xes  ;  A  (repeated) — PPp  in  sixes  ;  QQq,  8  leaves  ;  Rrr,  6  leaves. 

Dedicated  to  Queen  Elizabeth. 

JOACHIM.    Vaticinia  sive  Prophetiae  Abbatis  loachimi,  &  An- 

selmi    Episcopi  Marsicani,  Cum   imaginibus   asre  incisis Vna 

cum    Prsefatione,   et  Adnotationibus   Paschalini   Regiselmi.     Venetiis 
Mdlxxxix.  cum  Privilegiis  Apud  H.  Porriun.    4to.    Plates. 
a — d  in  fours;  A — O  2  in  fours. 

JOBSON,  RlCH.\RD.  The  Golden  Trade  :  or,  A  discouery  of  the 
Riuer  Gambra,  and  the  Golden  Trade  of  the  Aethiopians.  Also,  The 
Commerce  with  a  great  blacke  Merchant,  called  Buckor  Sano,  and  his 
report  of  the  houses  couered  with  Gold,  and  other  strange  obseruations 
for  the  good  of  our  owne  countrey ;  Set  downe  as  they  were  collected 
in  trauelling,  part  of  the  yeares,  1620.  and  162 1.  By  Richard  lobson, 
Gentleman.  London,  Printed  by  Nicholas  Okes,  and  are  to  be  sold  by 
Nicholas  Bourne,  dwelling  at  the  entrance  of  the  Roy  all  Exchange,  1623. 
4tO.     BL.  M. 

A — X  in  fours,  title  on  A  2,  and  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  Right  Worshipfvll,  Sir  William  St.  lohn  Knight,  Gouernour 
of  the  Countries  of  Ginney  and  Binney  :  S^  Allen  Apsley  Knight,  Liuetenant  of  the 
Tower  of  London,  and  Deputy  Gouernour  as  a  foresayd  :  S''  Thomas  Button  Knight, 
and  other  the  Noble  Knights,  and  Gentlemen,  aduenturers  for  the  sayd  Countries 
of  Ginney,  and  Binney." 

JOHANNES  DAMASCENUS.  Incipit  liber  gestoru  barlaam  et 
iosophat  seruoria  dei  greco  sermone  editur  a  iohane  damasceno  viro 
sancto  et  erudito.    [Sine  ulld  notd.]    4to.    BL.  M. 

This  edition  of  147  leaves,  with  29  lines  to  the  page,  is  ascribed  to  the  press  of 
H.  Eggesteyn  of  Strasbourg.     Hain,  5913. 


774  JOHANNES-JOHN  FREDERICK. 

JOHANNES  PRESBYTER.  De  Ritu  et  moribus  Indorum.  [On 
the  verso  of  the  tenth  leaf]  Explicit  Epistola  de  Johanne  qui  dr  pres- 
biter  Indie.    [Sine  loco  ant  anno.]    4to.    R-  M. 

Ten  leaves,  the  first  blank.  The  first  leaf  of  text  with  an  ornamental  woodcut 
border.    Thirty-one  lines  to  a  full  page.    Hain,  9429- 

JOHANNES,  Rex  PoRTUGALLIiE.  Serenissimi  atque  invictissimi 
portugalliae  &  Algarbiorum  Regis  Liters,  ad  S.  D.  N.  Paulum  III. 
Pont.  Max.  super  insigni  uictoria,  rebusq,  fceliciter  in  Oriente  gestis. 
[Si/ic /oco  aiii  aum.]    4to.    R.  M. 

Eight  leaves,  the  last  bears  only  a  printer's  device,  which  represents  Ceres  sup- 
porting the  arms  of  Portugal.  This  piece  appears  to  be  even  rarer  than  those  of  a 
similar  character  put  forth  by  Emanuel,  King  of  Portugal,  for  while  those  are  de- 
scribed by  Brunei  and  included  in  the  Grenville  catalogue,  this  appears  to  be  quite 
undescribed.  It  is  subscribed  at  the  end  "Data  Eborse,  die  xx.  Julij.  An.  D. 
M.D.XXXVI." 

JOHN,  King  of  England.  The  First  and  second  Part  of  the 
troublesome  Raigne  of  John  King  of  England.  With  the  discouerieof 
King  Richard  Cordelions  Base  sonne  (vulgarly  named  the  Bastard 
Fawconbridge).  Also,  the  death  of  King  lohn  at  Swinstead  Abbey. 
As  they  were  (sundry  times)  lately  Acted  by  the  Queenes  Maiesties 
Players.  Written  by  W.  Sh.  hnprintcd  at  London  by  Valentine  Siniines 
for  lohn  Helme,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Saint  Dunstons  Church- 
yard in  Fleetcstrcct.    161 1.    4to. 

A— M  2  in  fours,  M  2  blank. 

This  edition,  a  reprint  of  that  of  1591,  is  included  in  Nichols's  "  Six  Old  Plays," 
1779.  The  initials  inserted  on  the  title  must  have  been  a  bookseller's  trick  to 
impose  on  the  public  the  belief  that  the  play  was  Shakespeare's. 

JOHN  FREDERICK,  Duke  of  Saxony.  Des  durchlauchtigsten 
Hochgebornen  Fiirsten  vnd  herrn,  Herrn  Johans  Frederichen,  Herzogen 

zu  Sachssen, Warhafftige,  bestendige,  ergriindete,  Christenliche 

vnd  auffrichtige  Verantwortung,  Wider  des  verstockten,  Gottlosen  vor- 
maledeieten,  verfluchten  ehrenschenders,  bosthetigen  Barabbas,  auch 
hurnsiichtigen  Holofernes  von  Braunschweig.  So  sich  Herzog  Heinrich 
den  jiingcrn  nennct,  vnuorschempt,  Calphurnisch,  schand,  vnd  liigen- 
buch.  Welchs  er  abermals,  am  datum  Wolffenbuttel,  auff  Dienstag 
nach  Omnium  Sanctorum,  Anno  1540.  negst,  wider  vorgemelten  Chur- 
fursten  zu  Sachssen  etc.  wil  volbracht  haben,  vnd  offentlich  durch 
einen  druck  ausgesprengt  hat.  Anno  1541.  [Colophon.]  Gedruckt  zu 
Wittemberg  durch  Georgcn  Rhavj.    1541.    4to.    I3R.  M. 

A — Y  in  fours,  except  X,  which  has  only  two  leaves. 

The  last  leaf  is  blank  on  the  recto,  but  on  the  verso  has  a  large  woodcut  of  arms, 
over  which  is  printed,  "  Verbvm  Domini  manet  in  aeternum."     On  the  title  is  a 


JOHN   FREDERICK—JOHNSON.  775 

woodcut  portrait  of  the  Duke  of  Saxony,  beneath  which  is  printed,  "  Hierumb  ist  der 
nicht  ein  Geist  mit  Gott,  noch  ein  Christ,  der  an  der  Huren  hengt,  vnd  auch  jm 
den  andern  bbsen  lastem,  wie  der  von  Braunschweig,  stecket.' 

JOHN  FREDERICK,  Duke  of  Saxony.  Das  gantze  Leben 
vnd  Historia,  desz  aller  Theuresten  vnd  werten  Manns,  Hertzogen 
Johann  Friderichen,  gebornen  Churfiirsten  zu  Sachsen,  wie  er  von 
jugent  auff  ein  Leben  gefiihrt,  vnd  ihm  hernach  bisz  an  sein  end  er- 
gangen  ist.  Alles  sehr  Kiinstlich  abconterfect,  vnd  eygendtlich  in 
disem  gemahl  entworffen,  vnd  einem  jeden  augenscheinlich  zum  ewigen 
gedachtnus  furgestelt.    \0.  O.  u.  y.]    Folio.    R.  M. 

This  volume  of  woodcuts  appears  to  be  undescribed  by  all  bibliographers,  except 
Nagler,  "  Monogrammisten  Lex.,"  v.  3,  No.  1251.  It  consists  altogether  of  thirty- 
nine  leaves,  or,  if  the  large  blocks  be  not  pasted  together,  of  forty-three  leaves,  and 
is  thus  composed  :  i.  Title  as  above,  within  woodcut  border.  2.  "  Bericht  diser 
Chronicken,"  one  leaf,  within  a  similar  border.  3.  A  folding  woodcut  portrait. 
4.  A  folding  woodcut  portrait  with  hat  on.  5.  Arms  of  Saxony  within  a  border. 
6.  Fifteen  leaves,  each  containing  a  woodcut  within  a  border,  and  four  lines  of  verse 
beneath  each.  7.  A  large  folding  woodcut  of  the  distribution  of  alms  ("two  sheets 
pasted  together).  8.  Three  leaves,  each  with  woodcut  within  a  border,  and  four 
lines  beneath.  9.  Large  folding  woodcut  of  the  battle  of  "  Mulberck,"  four  sheets 
pasted  together.  10.  Full  length  portrait  in  armour,  folded  at  the  bottom.  11. 
Thirteen  leaves,  each  with  a  woodcut  within  a  border,  four  lines  of  verse  beneath 
each,  the  last,  representing  the  Day  of  Judgment,  being  a  copy  from  the  concluding 
cut  of  Diirer's  "little  passion." 

Some  of  the  woodcuts  bear  the  monogram  HI,  and  on  the  large  cut  of  the 
distribution  of  alms  is  the  date  1561.  This  cut,  according  to  Nagler,  represents  a 
scene  in  the  life  of  St.  Elizabeth.  The  work  is  described  by  Nagler  from  a  copy 
which  appeared  many  years  since  in  R.  Weigel's  "  Kunstcatalog."  The  monogram, 
KVI,  is  that  of  an  unknown  master. 

JOHNSON,  John.  A  Description  of  Love.  With  certaine  Epi- 
grams, Elegies,  and  Sonnets.  And  Also  Mast.  Johnsons  Answere  to 
Master  Withers,  With  the  Crie  of  Ludgate  and  the  Song  of  the  Begger. 
The  sixth  Edition.  London,  Printed  by  M .  F.for  Francis  Conies  at  the 
vpper  end  of  tlie  Old-Baily  neere  Neiugate.    1629.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

A — D  in  eights,  title  on  A  2. 

The  only  copy  known.  Johnson's  answer  to  Wither  is  a  copy  of  Wither's 
famous  song,  "  Shall  I  wasting  in  despair,"  answered  stanza  by  stanza  by  Johnson. 

This  book  was  licensed  to  Michael  Sparkes,  or  Sparke,  two  years  before  the  date 
of  the  first  known  edition,  viz.,  on  the  14th  of  June,  1618,  as  "A  Discourse  of  loue 
or  songes  Sonnettes  and  Elegies,  betwi,\t  Withers  and  Johnson."  See  Arber,  iii., 
291;  and  in  vol.  iv.,  17,  occurs  the  following  entry:  "Thomas  Dewe.  Assigned 
ouer  vnto  him  by  Michaell  Sparkes  and  with  the  consent  of  Master  Lownes  warden 
A  booke  called  '  The  Discription  of  loue.'     Written  by  Master  Johnson." 

A  Description  of  Love.    With  certaine  Epigrams,  ....  The 

ninth  Edition.    London,  Printed  by  Miles  Flesher.   1638.    Sm.  8vo.  Y.M. 


776  JOHNSON. 

A— D  7  in  eights,  title  on  A  2.  ,.,,,•• 

From  Mr.  Corscr's  collection.    Of  the  seventh  and  eighth  editions  no  copies 

appear  to  be  known. 

JOHNSON,  John.    The  Academy  of  Love  describing  y'  folly  of 
younge  men,  &  y*  fallacy  of  women  by  lo.   lohnson,   Gent.  . 
London  Printed  for  Humphry  Blunden  at  the   Castle  in   Cornhill, 

A"  1 64 1.    4to. 

A— O  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.     In  prose  and  verse. 

The  title-page,  which  is  engraved,  contains  a  representation  of  Cupid  in  the 
foreground  introducing  a  man  in  the  dress  of  the  period  to  a  lady  who  wears  a 
heart  at  her  girdle.  . 

This  volume  has  a  reference  to  Shakespeare  at  p.  99.  Massinger,  Shirley,  and 
Sir  Philip  Sidney  are  also  mentioned.  Further  on  there  is  an  enumeration  of 
some  of  the  games  then  in  vogue. 

JOHNSON,  Richard.  The  most  Pleasant  History  of  Tom  A 
Lincolne,  that  renowned  Soldier,  the  Red-Rose  Knight,  who  for  his 
Valour  and  Chivalry,  was  sirnamcd  The  Boast  of  England.  Shewing 
his    Honourable  Victories   in  Forraine  Countries,  with   his   strange 

Fortunes  in  the  Fayrie  Land The  Seventh  impression.    London, 

Printed  by  A.  M.  and  arc  to  be  sold  by  Francis  Faulkner  and  Francis 
Conies.    1635.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — M  3  in  fours,  title  on  A. 

The  second  part  begins  with  a  fresh  title  on  sig.  H.  This  is  the  copy  used  by 
Mr.  Thorns  for  the  reprint  in  his  "  Early  Prose  Romances."  It  wants  the  last  leaf 
of  sig.  M,  containing  about  half  a  page  of  the  story.  The  later  editions,  from  one 
of  which  Mr.  Thorns  completed  the  text,  are  abridged  and  altered.  The  only  copy 
known.    From  the  libraries  of  Heber,  Utterson,  and  Bliss. 

This  romance  was  assigned  to  W.  White,  by  John  Danter,  December  24,  1599. 
The  second  part  was  entered  to  White,  October  20,  1607. 

The  Crown  Garland  of  Golden  Roses,  Gathered  out  of  Eng- 

lands  Royal  Garden.  Set  forth  in  many  Pleasant  New  Songs  and 
Sonnets.  With  New  Additions,  never  before  Imprinted.  Divided  into 
Two  Parts,  by  R.  Johnson.  London,  Printed  by  J.  M.  for  IV.  and  T. 
Thackeray,  at  the  Sign  of  the  Angel  in  Duck- Lane,  near  West-Smithfield. 
1662.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    R. 

A — H  in  eights. 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  G.  Daniel  and  Mr.  Utterson.  It  is  probably  the 
copy  described  in  the  "  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica,"  No.  164.  It  is  a  volume  of  the 
greatest  rarity. 

The  Crown  Garland  of  Golden  Roses London,  Printed 

for  M.  IV.  and  are  to  be  Sold  by  Dorman  Neivman,  at  the  Kings  Arms, 
and  Ben.  Alsop,  at  the  Angel  and  Bible,  in  thePoultrcy.  1683.  Sm.  Svo. 
Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

A-H  in  eights. 


yOHN  SON— JOHNSTON.  yyj 

JOHNSON,  Richard.  The  Famous  History  of  the  Seven  Cham- 
pions of  Christendom.  St.  George  of  England,  St.  Denis  of  France, 
St.  James  of  Spain,  St.  Anthony  of  Italy,  St.  Andrew  of  Scotland,  St. 
Patrick  of  Ireland,  and  St.  David  of  Wales.  Shewing  their  Honour- 
able Battels  by  Sea  and  Land  ....  The  First  Part.    London,  Printed 

by  G.  P.  for  Andrezu  Crook.     1670. The  Famous   History  of  the 

Seven  Champions  of  Christendom.  The  Second  Part  ....  London. 
Printed  by  Ed.  Oozvch  for  Andrezu  Crook.  1670.  4to.  Black  letter. 
BL.  M. 

A — Aa  in  fours,  and  A — Y  in  fours. 

From  Mr.  G.  Smith's  collection.  Of  the  first  edition  of  the  first  part  no  perfect 
copy  is  known,  and  all  the  subsequent  editions  are  of  extreme  rarity.  Heber  had 
the  second  edition,  dated  1597  ("  BibL  Heber.,"  part  vi.,  No.  1803),  probably  pur- 
chased at  Reed's  sale.  A  third  part  was  subsequently  printed,  but  it  was  not  by 
Johnson. 

JOHNSON,  Robert.  Essaies,  or.  Rather  imperfect  Offers.  By 
Robert  lohnson,  Gent.  Scene  and  allowed.  London,  Printed  for  John 
Baclie,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  Ids  shop,  in  Popes-head  Pallace.  1607. 
Sm.  8vo. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — H  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  first  edition.  Dedicated  to  William,  Earl  of  Pembroke.  From  Mr.  Corser's 
collection. 

JOHNSON,  Samuel.  The  Rambler.  London:  Printed  for  J. 
Payne.     1753.    2  vols.    Folio.     The  edges  nnait. 

Vol.  i.  Title,  contents,  and  mottoes,  J  leaves  ;  Nos.  1-105.   Vol.  ii.  Title,  &c.,  as 
before,  5  leaves  ;  Nos.  105  (repeated)  to  207. 
The  first  edition,  as  published  in  numbers. 

JOHNSON,  Thomas.  Dainty  Conceits,  with  a  number  of  rare 
and  witty  inuentions,  neuer  before  printed.  Made  and  inuented  for 
honest  recreation,  to  passe  away  idle  houres.  Laboris  condimentum 
otiiwi.  By  Thomas  lohnson.  London,  Printed  by  E.  A.  for  Henry 
Gosson  and  Francis  Conks.     1630.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A — B  4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank.     From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

JOHNSON,  William.     Devs  Nobiscvm.     A  Sermon  Preached 

upon  A  Great  Deliverance  at  Sea  :  With  the  Narrative  of  the  Dangers 

and   Deliverances.     With  the  Name   of  the  Master  and  those  that 

suffered  :  Together  with  the  name  of  the  Ship  and  Owners.     London  : 

Printed  for  John  Crook,  at  the  Ship  in  S.  Pauls  Church-yard.    1664. 

Sm.  Svo. 

A — L  4  in  eights. 

JOHNSTON,  John.  Inscriptiones  Historicae  Regum  Scotorum, 
continuata  annorum  serie  a  Fergvsio  primo  Regni  Conditore  ad  nostra 

4  u 


778  JOHNSTON— JONES. 

tempora :  loh.  lonstono  Abredonense  Scoto,  Authore.  Prsfixus  est 
Gathelus  sive  de  Gentis  origine  Fragmentum  An.  Melvini.  Additse 
sunt  icones  omnium  regum  nobilis  Familis:  Stuartorum  in  aere  sculpte. 
Amstcldami,Ex-cudcbat  Cornelius  Qacssonius  Andrcce  Hartio,  hbhopolce 
Edembtirgensi.    Anno  1602.    4to.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves,  A— K  in  fours,  including  the  ten  portraits. 

JOHNSTON,  John.  Heroes  ex  omni  Historia  Scotica  lectissimi. 
Auctore  Johan.  lonstono  Abredonense  Scoto.  Lngdvni  Batavonun,  Ex- 
cudcbat  Christophonis  Gtiyotius,  sumtibus  Andrece  Hartii  Bibliopol(Z 
Edinbiirgensis.    1603.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — I  in  fours. 

JOINVILLE,  JEHAN,  Sire  de.  Histoire  de  Saint  Louis.  Les 
Annales  de  son  Regne,  Par  Guillaume  de  Nangis.  Sa  Vie  et  ses 
Miracles,  Par  le  Confesseur  de  la  Reine  Marguerite.  Le  tout  publid 
d'apr^s  les  Manuscrits  de  la  Bibliotheque  du  Roi,  &  accompagn^  d'un 
Glossaire.    Paris.    1761.    Folio.    BL.  M. 

JOLY,  Guy.  Memoires  de  Guy  Joli,  suivis  d'un  memoire  con- 
cernant  le  Cardinal  de  Retz  extrait  d'une  histoire  manuscrite,  com- 
posee  par  Claude  Joli,  Chanoine  de  I'Eglise  de  Paris  :  et  Memoires  de 
Madame  la  Duchesse  de  Nemours.  A  Geneve.   1777.    2  vols.  8vo.  R.  M. 

JOMARD,  E.  F.  Les  Monumens  de  la  Geographie  ou  recueil  d'An- 
ciennes  Cartes  Europeennes  et  Orientales,  accompagnees  de  Spheres 
Terrestres  et  Celestes,  de  Mappemondes  et  Tables  Cosmographiques, 
d'Astrolabes  et  autres  instruments  d'observation,  depuis  les  temps  les 
plus  reculds  jusqu'a  I'epoque  d'Ortelius  et  de  Gerard  Mercator,  publics 
en  fac-simile  de  la  grandeur  des  originaux.  Paris.  \s.  d?\  Atlas 
folio. 

JONES,  INIGO.  The  most  notable  Antiquity  of  Great  Britain, 
vulgarly  called  Stone-Heng  on  Salisbvry  Plain.  Restored  By  Inigo 
Jones  Esquire,  Architect  Generall  to  the  late  King.  London,  Printed 
by  James  Fleslicr  for  Daniel  Pakenian  at  tlie  sign  of  the  Rainbow  iti 
Flcetstreet,  and  Laurence  CJmpnian  next  door  to  the  Fountain  Tavern  in 
the  Strand.    1655.    Folio.    R. 

A— P  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.  With  a  portrait  of  Jones,  by  Hollar,  after  Vandyke, 
and  seven  large  plates,  besides  the  two  on  the  letterpress. 

A  posthumous  publication,  edited  from  the  author's  loose  memoranda  by  John 
Webb,  and  dedicated  by  him  to  Philip,  Earl  of  Pembroke  and  Montgomery. 

The  Most  Notable  Antiquity  of  Great  Britain,  Vulgarly  called 

Stone-Heng,  on  Salisbury  Plaine,  restored.  By  Inigo  Jones  ....  To 
which  are  added.  The  Chorea  Gigantum,  or  Stone-Heng  Restored  to 
the  Danes,  By  Doctor  Charieton :  and  Mr.  Webb's  Vindication  of  Stone- 
Heng  Restored London.    1725.    Folio.    Portrait  and  plates.    R. 


yONES—yONSON.  779 

JONES,  John.  Adrasta  :  or,  The  Womans  Spleene,  And  Loves 
Conqvest.  A  Tragi-comedie.  Never  Acted.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  for 
Richard  Roystoii,  atid  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  Ivie-lane,  next  to  the 
Exchequer  Office.    1635.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours.     First  edition. 

JONES,  Philip.  Certaine  briefe,  and  speciall  Instructions  for 
Gentlemen,  merchants,  students,  souldiers,  marriners,  &c.  Employed 
in  seruices  abrode,  or  anie  way  occasioned  to  conuerse  in  the  king- 
domes,  and  gouernementes  of  forren  Princes.  London,  Printed  by  John 
Woolfe,  1589.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — D  3  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Francis  Drake,  and  on  the  following  page  are  some  Latin  lines  in 
his  honour.  In  the  dedication  the  author  mentions  that  "  This  Methode,  was  com- 
posed by  one  M.  Albertus  Meier,  at  the  command,  direction  and  charge  of  the 
honorable  Henry  Ranzou."  ....  Further  on  he  says  that  he  was  "motioned"  to 
remember  Drake  by  Richard  Hakluyt.  The  book  consists  of  suggestions  of  things 
to  be  observed  and  noted  by  travellers. 

JONES,  Theophilus.  A  History  of  the  County  of  Brecknock. 
.  .  .  Brecknock.    1805-9.    2  vols,  in  3.    4to.    Maps  and  plates.    R.  M. 

JONSON,  Ben.  Works,  with  notes  critical  and  explanatory  by 
William  Gifford.    London.    1816.    9  vols.    Royal  8vo.    Large  paper. 

The  Workes  of  Beniamin  Jonson. 

neque  me  vt  miretur  turba  laboro  : 

Contentus  paucis  lectoribus. 

Impritited  at  London  by  Will.  Stansby.  An.  D.  16 16.  Folio.  Large 
paper.    Portrait.    R.  M. 

This  copy  is  believed  to  be  unique  on  large  paper.  It  contains  the  three  plays 
edited  by  the  author  towards  a  second  volume.  Mr.  Brinsley  Nicholson,  in  his 
e.\haustive  account  of  the  early  folio  editions  of  Jonson's  works,  in  "  Notes  and 
Queries,"  June  iSth,  1870,  says:  "The  noncontinuance  of  the  attempt  at  a  second 
collected  volume  beyond  the  third  play,  '  The  Staple  of  News,'  was  probably  due  to 
the  damning  by  the  town  of '  The  New  Inn '  in  that  same  year." 

There  is  in  the  library  a  copy  of  the  edition  of  1616,  on  small  paper,  with  a  slight 
variation  in  the  imprint,  ^^ London  Printed  by  William  Stansby."  It  has  also  a 
duplicate  title  to  "Every  Man  out  of  his  Humour"  printed  within  a  woodcut  border. 
In  this  copy  also  are  included,  besides  the  three  plays  before  mentioned,  "The 
Magnetick  Lady,"  "A  Tale  of  a  Tub,"  "The  Sad  Shepherd,"  "Horace  His  Art 
of  Poetrie,"  "  The  English  Grammar,"  "  Timber,"  "  Underwoods,"  "  Mortimer  His 
FaU,"  "  Christmas  his  Masque,"  "  A  Masque"  at  Lord  Haye's,  "A  Masque  at  the 
Metamorphosd  Gypsies,"  with  dates  of  1640,  &c.  The  bibliography  and  collation 
of  the  early  folio  editions  is  most  intricate  and  difficult ;  but  in  the  article  mentioned 
above  Mr.  Brinsley  Nicholson  has  said  all  that  can  be  said  on  the  subject. 


B.  Jon  :  His  Part  of  King  James  his  Royall  and  Magnificent 

Entertainement  through  his  Honorable  Cittie  of  London,  Thurseday  the 


j8o  yONSON. 

15.  of  March.  1603.  So  much  as  was  presented  in  the  first  and  last  of 
their  Triumphall  Arch's.  With  his  speach  made  to  the  last  Presenta- 
tion in  the  Strand,  erected  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  Dutchy,  and 
Westminster.  Also,  a  briefe  Panegyre  of  his  Maiesties  first  and  well 
auspicated  entrance  to  his  high  Court  of  Parliament,  on  Monday,  the 
19.  of  the  same  Moneth.  With  other  Additions.  Mart.  Qiiando 
magis  dignos  liaiit  spec  tare  triiiviphos.  Printed  at  London  by  V.  S.  for 
Edward  Blount,  1604.    4to.    R.  M. 

A— F  2  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank  ;  the  "  Other  Additions,"  A— B  in  fours. 

The  present  copy  is  bound  in  two  volumes,  the  second  having  the  "Other 
Additions"  mentioned  on  the  title,  namely: ''A  Particvlar  Entertainment  of  the 
Qveene  and  Prince  their  Highnesse  to  Althrope,  at  the  Right  Honourable  the  Lord 
Spencers,  on  Saterday  being  the  25.  of  lune  1603.  as  they  came  first  into  the  King- 
dome  ;  being  written  by  the  same  Author,  and  not  before  published." 

JONSON,  Ben.  Scianvs  His  Fall.  Written  by  Ben:  lonson. 
[Quotation  from  Martial.]  At  London  Printed  by  G.  Elld,for  Thomas 
Thorpe.    1605.    4to.    Large  paper. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves ;  B— N  2  in  fours. 

With  commendatory  verses  by  George  Chapman,  Hugh  Holland,  John  Marston, 
Th.  R.[avenscroft  ?],  and  others.  With  marginal  notes  by  the  author.  The  verses  by 
Chapman  occupy  six  pages,  and  are,  as  Chapman  calls  them,  a  commentary  on  the 
drama. 

This  is  the  only  copy  knovim  on  large  paper.  It  has  the  following  inscription  on 
the  flyleaf,  in  the  author's  handwriting:  "To  my  perfect  Freind,  Mr.  Francis  Crane 
I  erect  this  pillar  of  Freindship.  And  leaue  it  as  the  eternall  Witnesse  of  my  Loue. 
Ben;  Jonson."  Beneath  which  is  a  MS.  note  in  a  contemporary  hand:  "Hie  est  Ben: 
Johnson  :  ille  cui  in  componendis  fabulis  parem  nee  vidit  Antiquitas,  nee  pos- 
teritas  visura  est.  F.  M."  In  the  original  vellum  binding.  It  bears  the  book-plate 
of  Robert  Cony,  M.D.,  and  has  successively  belonged  to  Whalley,  Jonson's  early 
editor,  the  Rev.  John  Field,  and  Mr.  George  Daniel. 

This  drama,  eventually  printed  by  George  Eld  for  Thomas  Thorpe,  was  origi- 
nally registered  by  Edward  Blount,  on  the  2nd  November,  1604;  and  on  the  6th 
August,  in  the  following  year,  Blount  assigned  the  copyright  to  Thorpe.  See 
Arber's  "Transcript,"  iii.,  115,  127. 

Hymenaei :   or  The  Solemnities  of  Masque,  and   Barriers, 


Magnificently  performed  on  the  eleventh,  and  twelfth  Nights,  from 
Christmas  ;  At  Court :  To  the  auspicious  celebrating  of  the  Marriage- 
vnion,  betweenc  Robert,  Earlc  of  Essex,  and  the  Lady  Frances,  second 
Daughter  to  the  most  noble  Earle  of  Sufiblke.  By  Ben  :  lonson.  lam 
veniet  Virgo,  iam  dicetiir  Hymenaus.  At  London  Printed  by  Valentine 
Sims  for  Thomas  Thorpe.    1606.    4to. 

A — F  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

The   Masqve  of  Oveenes   Celebrated  From    the    House  of 


Fame  :  By  the  most  absolute  in  all  State,  And  Titles,  Anne  Queene 
of  Great  Britaine,  &c  :  With  her  Honourable  Ladies.  At  White-Hall, 


JONS  ON.  781. 

Febr.  2.  1609.  Written  by  Ben :  lonson.  Et  memorem  famam,  qtue 
bene  gessit,  hahet.  London,  Printed  by  N.  Okes.  for  R.  Bonian  and 
H.  Wall}',  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  Spred  Eagle  in  P aides  Church- 
yard.   1609.    4to. 

A — F  2  in  fours,  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

JONSOiN",  Ben.  The  Newlnne.  Or,  The  light  Heart.  A  Comoedy. 
As  it  was  neuer  acted,  but  most  negligently  play'd,  by  some,  the  Kings 
Seruants.  And  more  squeamishly  beheld,  and  censured  by  others,  the 
Kings  Subiects.  1629.  Now,  at  last,  set  at  liberty  to  the  Readers,  his 
Ma""  Seruants,  and  Subiects,  to  be  iudg'd.     163 1.    By  the  Author,  B. 

lonson London,  Printed  by   Thomas  Harper,  for  Thomas  Al- 

chorne,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Pauls  Chureh-yeard,  at  tJie  signe 
of  the  greene  Dragon.    1631.    Sm.  8vo.    The  edges  uncut. 

(*),  8  leaves ;  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — H  2  in  eights. 

First  edition.  The  play  is  not  included  in  the  early  folio  collections  of  Jonson's 
works. 

The  Widdow  A  Comedie.    As  it  was  Acted  at  the  private 

House  in  Black-Frj'ers,  with  great  Applause,  by  His  late  Majesties 
Servants.  Written  by  Ben  :  Johnson.  John  Fletcher.  Tho  :  Middleton. 
Gent.  Printed  by  the  Originall  Copy.  London,  Printed  for  Humphrey 
Moseley,  .  .  .  1652.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves ;  B — K  i  in  fours. 

First  edition.     The  preface  to  the  reader  is  signed  "  Alexander  Gough." 

lonsonvs  Virbivs :  or,  the  Memorie  of  Ben :  Johnson  Re- 
vived by  the  Friends  of  The  Mvses.  London,  Pi'inted  by  E.  P.  for 
Henry  Seile,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  the  Tygers  Head  in  Fleet- 
street,  over-against  Saint  Dunstans  Church.    1638.    4to.    R.  M. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours  ;  d,  4  leaves  ;  E — 1  in  fours  ;  K,  6  leaves,  the  last 
blank. 

Edited  by  Bishop  Duppa.  The  printer,  in  a  short  address  to  the  reader, 
says  :  "  Tis  now  about  sixe  moneths  since  the  most  learned  and  judicious  Poet, 
B.  I  ohnson,  became  a  subject  for  these  Elegies."  and  attributes  the  delay  which  had 
occurred  in  the  appearance  of  the  volume  to  the  consideration  requisite  in  so  great 
an  argument. 

The  principal  writers  are  Lord  Falkland,  Sir  John  Beaumont  the  younger.  Sir 
Thomas  Hawkins,  Henry  King,  W.  Abington,  Edmund  Waller,  James  Howell, 
J.  Cl.[eveland .'],  W.  Cartwright,  Owen  Feltham,  Shackerley  Marmion,  and  John 
Ford. 

In  Arber's  "  Transcript,"  vol.  iv.,  368,  is  entered  :  "9.  Octobris  1637.  Henry  Gos- 
son.  Entred  for  his  copie  vnder  the  hands  of  Master  Baker  and  Master  Aspley 
warden  a  Booke  called  an  Eligie  vpon  the  Death  of  Beniainin  Johnson  Poctt.  by 
John  Taylor"   This  book  seems  to  have  been  altogether  lost. 

Ben    Johnson's    Jests :    or,    the   Wit's    Pocket-Companion. 

Being  A  new  Collection  of  the  most  Ingenious  Jests  ....  To  which 


782  JORDAN. 

is  added,  A  choice  Collection  of  the  newest  Conundrums  ....  The 
Seventh  Edition.  With  great  Additions  and  Improvements.  London  : 
Printed  in  the  Year  1761.    Sm.  8vo. 

On  the  back  of  the  title  is  an  announcement  that  "  great  care  has  been  taken,  in 
this  Collection,  to  omit  all  those  that  are  in  Joe  Miller,  which  is  very  proper  to  be 
bound  up  with  this." 

JORDAN,  John.  Original  Collections  on  Shakspeare  &  Strat- 
ford-on-Avon.  Selected  from  the  Original  Manuscripts,  written  about 
the  year  17S0.    By  J.  O.  Halliwell.    London.    1864.    4to. 

Only  ten  copies  printed. 

Original  Memoirs  and  Historical  Accounts  of  the  Families 

of  Shakespeare  and  Hart,  deduced  from  an  early  period,  and  con- 
tinued down  to  this  present  year,  1790.  By  John  Jordan,  of  Stratford- 
upon-Avon.  With  Drawings  of  their  dwelling  Houses  and  Coats  of 
Arms.    Now  first  printed,  A.D.  1865.    London:  1865.    4to. 

Ten  copies  privately  printed  by  Mr.  Halliwell,  who  does  not,  however,  give  the 
illustrations  mentioned  in  the  title. 

JORDAN,  Thomas.  Poeticall  Varieties  :  or,  Varietie  of  Fancies. 
By  Thomas  Jordan  Gent.  Carpcre  vcl  noli  nostra  vel  edc  tiia :  Marti. 
Epigram.  London,  Printed  by  T.  C.  for  Humphry  Bhmdeii,  and  are 
to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  neare  the  Castle  Tavcrne,  in  Corne-hill.  1637.  4to. 

A — H  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

This  appears  to  have  been  Jordan's  earliest  publication.  In  the  present  copy, 
A  2,  containing  the  dedication  to  John  Ford  of  Gray's  Inn,  is  deficient.  The  volume 
is  reviewed  by  Collier,  "  Bibl.  Cat.,"  i.,  414-16. 

The  present  copy  derives  a  special  interest  from  a  series  of  poems  in  MS.  bound 
up  at  the  end,  many  with  the  musical  notes,  and  the  last  subscribed  "  T.  J.,"  all  of 
which  are  supposed  to  be  in  Jordan's  own  handwriting.  Some  of  these  will  be 
found  printed  in  Jordan's  "  City-Pageants." 

This  volume  occurs  in  the  catalogue  of  T.  Allen,  1795,  No.  723,  and  was  subse- 
quently in  the  Heber,  JoUey,  and  Corser  collections. 

A  Medicine  for  the  Times.    Or,  An  Antidote  against  Faction. 


Written,  by  T.  J.  Containing  these  Cures,  viz.  i.  How  to  cure  a  man 
that  hath  a  factious  Spirit.  2.  How  to  cure  a  woman  so  possessed. 
3.  A  new  and  direct  experiment,  to  know  the  Kings-Evil ....  London. 
Printed  for  Robert  Wood.    1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  Christian  Souldier.     Or,  Preparation  for  Battaile.    A 

Legend  containing  true  Rules  for  a  Souldier,  in  whom  at  once  is  met 
Religion  and  Resolution.  Published  by  a  well-wilier  to  the  Gown 
and  Sword,  T.  J.    [Here  follow  two  stanzas,  one  addressed  to  the 


JORDAN.  -j^^ 

Foot,  the  other  to  the  Horse  soldiers.]  Lofidon,  Printed  for  Edward 
Christoplier.    1642.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  prose,  but  with  sixteen  lines  of  verse  at  the  end. 
Attributed  conjecturally  to  Jordan. 

JORDAN,  Thomas.  The  Debtors  Apologie  Or,  A  Quaint  Para- 
dox Proving  that  it  is  good  to  be  in  Debt,  and  (in  this  Age)  may  be 
usefull  for  all  Men.  By  T :  J.  Written  in  the  yeer  of  Engagements 
1644.    \No  place  or  printer's  name^    4to. 

Eight  leaves.     Partly  in  verse. 

Rvles  to  know  A  Royall  King,  From  a  Disloyall  Subject. 

With  An  exact  account  given  of  the  Jewels  of  the  Crowne  of  England. 
Whereunto  is  added,  A  Touch-stone  for  a  Traitor.  Written  by  the 
Kings  friend,  and  a  Lover  of  the  Common-wealth,  Tho :  Jordan. 
London,  Printed  for  Tho:  Bankes.  164.^.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 


Pictures  of  Passions,  Fancies,  &  Affections.  Poetically  De- 
ciphered, in  Variety  of  Characters.  By  Tho :  Jordan,  Gent. .  .  .  Loji- 
don,  Printed  by  R.  Wood.    [n.  d.]    Sm.  8vo. 

B — E  4  in  eights,  and  the  title-page.     In  verse. 
Claraphil  and  Clarinda  :  in  a  Forrest  of  Fancies.    By  Tho  : 


Jordan,  Gent.    [Motto  from  Owen's  Epigrams.]    London,  Printed  by 
R.  Wood.  [«.  rf.]    Sm.  8vo. 

B — D  in  eights,  and  the  title-page.     In  verse. 

This  probably  appeared  about  1652.  At  sig.  B  3  verso  is  an  epithalamium  on 
the  marriage  of  Thomas  .Stanley,  the  poet,  and  Mrs.  Dorothy  Ennion,  and  at 
sig.  C  5  is  printed  Stanley's  poem  "  The  Kiss,"  with  an  answer  to  it  by  Jordan. 

Fancy's  Festivals :  A  Masque,  As  it  hath  been  privately  pre- 


sented by  many  civil  persons  of  quality.  And  now  at  their  requests 
newly  printed  with  many  various  and  delightful  new  Songs,  for  the 
further  illustration  of  every  Scene.  Written  by  Tho.  Jordan,  Gent. 
....  London  :  Printed  by  Tho.  Wilson  at  the  sign  of  the  Three-Foxes  in 
Long-lane.    1657.    4to. 

A — D  in  fours.     Dedicated  to  Mr.  Francis  Lenthall,  Junior. 
The  Walks  of  Islington  and  Hogsdon,  with  The  Humours 


of  Woodstreet-Compter.  A  Comedy,  As  it  was  publikely  Acted  19. 
days  together,  with  extraordinary  Applause.  Never  Printed  before. 
Written  by  Tho.  Jordan,  Gent.  .  .  .  London  :  Printed  by  Tho.  Wilson 
at  the  sign  of  the  Three-Foxes  in  Long-lane.    1657.    4^0- 


784  JORDAN. 

A — H  in  fours. 

A  duplicate  from  the  Bridgewater  library.  From  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Fillingham, 
Mr.  Heber,  and  Mr.  Corser.  At  the  end  is  Sir  Henry  Herbert's  licence  for  the 
play,  dated  the  2nd  August,  1641. 

JORDAN,  Thomas.  Money  is  an  Asse.  A  Comedy,  As  it  hath 
been  Acted  with  good  Applause.  Written  by  Tho.  Jordain  Gent  .  .  . 
London,  Printed  by  Peter  Lillicrap,for  Fra.  Kirknian,  and  are  to  be  sold 
by  most  Book-Sellers.    1668.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves ;  B— H  2  in  fours.    First  edition. 

Londons  Resurrection  to  Joy  and  Triumph.    Expressed  in 

Sundry  Shews,  Shapes,  Scenes,  Speeches,  and  Songs  in  Parts.  Cele- 
brious  to  the  much-meriting  Magistrate  Sir  George  Waterman  Knight, 
Lord  Mayor  of  the  City  of  London.  At  the  Peculiar  and  proper  Ex- 
penses of  the  Worshipful  Company  of  the  Sl<inners.  The  King,  Queen, 
and  Duke  of  York,  and  most  of  the  Nobility  being  present.  Written 
by  Tho.  Jordan.  London,  Printed  for  Henry  Bronie  at  the  Gun  in  St. 
Paul's  Church- Yard.    1671.    4to. 

A— C  in  fours.  The  title  of  the  copy  in  the  British  Museum  ends  with  the  word 
"  Skinners."  and  the  text  finishes  on  C  iii. 

London  Triumphant :  Or,  The  City  in  Jollity  and  Splen- 
dour :  Expressed  in  Various  Pageants,  Shapes,  Scenes,  Speeches  and 
Songs.  Invented  and  performed  for  Congratulation  and  Delight  of 
the  well-deserving  Governour,  Sir  Robert  Hanson  Knight,  Lord  Mayor 
of  the  City  of  London.  At  the  Cost  and  Charges  of  the  Worshipful 
Company  of  Grocers.  Written  by  Tho.  Jordan.  London :  Printed  by 
W.  G.for  Nath.  Brook  and  John  Play  ford.    1672.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  2  in  fours.    From  the  library  of  Mr.  Corser. 

London  Triumphant :  or,  The  City  in  Jollity  and  Splendour : 

His  Majesty  Gracing  the  Triumphs  with  his  Royal  Presence. 

Written  by  Tho.  Jordan.  London:  Printed  by  W.  G.for  Nath.  Brdok 
at  the  Angel  in  Cornhil,  and  John  Play  ford  at  his  Shop  in  the  Temple, 
near  the  Church.    [1672.]    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  2  in  fours. 

The  third  speech  is  spoken  by  America,  who  is  introduced  as  "  A  proper  Mas- 
culine Woman,  with  a  tawny  Face,  Raven-black  long  Hair,  curling  up  at  the  ends, 
on  her  head  a  Crown  Imperial  ..."  It  appears  from  a  postscript  to  this  edition, 
that  the  king,  after  attending  the  show,  dined  at  Guildhall. 


The  Goldsmiths  Jubile  :  Or,  Londons  Triumphs  :  Containing 

A  Description  of  the  several  Pageants  :  On  which  are  Represented, 
Emblematical  Figures,  Artful  Pieces  of  Architecture,  and  Rural 
Dancing :  With  the  Speeches  spoken  on  each  Pageant.    Performed 


JORDAN.  78s 

Octob.  29,  1674.  for  the  Entertainment  of  the  Right  Honourable,  and 
truly  Noble  Pattern  of  Prudence  and  Loyalty,  Sir  Robert  Vyner, 
K'  &  Bar',  Lord  Mayor  of  the  City  of  London  :  At  the  Proper  Costs 
and  Charges  of  the  Worshipful  Company  of  Goldsmiths.  The  Kings 
Most  Sacred  Majesty  and  His  Royal  Consort,  Their  Royal  High- 
nesses the  Duke  and  Dutchess  of  York,  Prince  Rupert,  The  Duke  of 
Monmouth,  several  Foreign  Embassadours,  Chief  Nobility,  and  Secre- 
taries of  State,  honouring  the  City  with  their  Presence.  Composed  by 
Tho.  Jordan.  London,  Printed  by  W.Godbid,  for  John  Playford.  1674. 
4to.    R.  M. 

A — B  in  fours,  or  8  leaves. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Robert  Vyner.  This  is  one  of  the  rarest  of  Jordan's  pageants, 
and  it  is  doubtful  whether  more  than  three  copies  of  it  exist.  The  title  given  by 
Mr.  Halhwell  in  his  "  Dictionary  of  Old  Plays,"  i860,  is  not  quite  accurate. 

At  the  end  is  an  advertisement  of  the  songs  sung  "  in  the  famous  Play  call'd 
the  TempestP 

JORDAN,  Thomas.  The  Triumphs  of  London.  Perform'd  on 
Friday,  Octob.  29.  1675.  for  the  Entertainment  of  the  Right  Honour- 
able, and  truly  Noble  Pattern  of  Prudence  and  Loyalty,  Sir  Joseph 
Sheldon  K',  Lord  Mayor  of  the  City  of  London.  Containing  a  true 
description  of  the  several  Pageants,  with  the  Speeches  spoken  on  each 
Pageant.  Together  with  the  several  Songs  sung  at  this  Solemnity.  All 
set  forth  at  the  proper  Costs  and  Charges  of  the  Worshipful  Company 
of  Drapers.  Designed  and  Composed,  by  Tho.  Jordan,  Gent.  Lon- 
don, Printed  by  J.  Macock,  for  John  Playford,  .  .  1675.    4to. 

A — C  in  fours.  Successively  in  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Bindley,  Mr.  Jolley,  and 
Mr.  Corser. 

London's  Triumphs:  Express'd  in  sundry  Representations, 

Pageants  and  Shows,  performed  on  Monday  Octob.  30.  1676.  at  the 
Inauguration  and  Instalment  of  the  Right  Honourable  Sir  Thomas 
Davies  Kt,  Lord  Mayor  of  the  City  of  London.  Containing  a  true 
Description  of  the  several  Scenes  and  Habits  of  the  Representers, 
with  the  Speeches  spoken  on  each  Pageant.  All  the  Charge  and  Ex- 
pences  of  the  Industrious  Designs,  being  the  sole  Undertakings  of  the 
Ancient  and  Right  Worshipful  Society  of  Drapers.  Being  the  Second 
Year  without  Intermission.  Deuised  and  Composed  by  Tho.  Jordan  .  .  . 
London,  Printed  for  Jolin  Playford  at  the  Temple  Church.     1676.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  2  in  fours.    From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

Londons  Triumphs:  Illustrated  with  many  Magnificent  Struc- 
tures and  Pageants.  On  which  are  orderly  advanced  Several  Stately 
Representations  of  Poetical  Deities,  sitting  and  standing  in  great 
splendor  on  several  Scenes  in  Proper  Shapes.  With  Pertinent  Speeches, 
Jocular  Songs,  (sung  by  the  City  Musick)  and  Pastoral  Dancing.    Per- 

4X 


786  JORDAN. 

formed  October  29,  1677,  for  the  Celebration,  Solemnity,  and  Inaugu- 
ration of  the  Right  Honourable  Sir  Francis  Chaplin  Knight,  Lord 
Mayor  of  the  City  of  London.  All  the  Charge  and  Expences  of  the 
Industrious  Designs,  being  the  sole  Undertaking  of  the  Ancient  and 
Right  Worshipful  Society  of  Clothworkers.    Designed  and  Composed 

by  Tho.  Jordan,  Gent London,  Printed  for  John  Playjord  at 

the  Temple  Church.    1677.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — C  in  fours. 

From  Mr.  George  Smith's  collection. 

JORDAN,  Thomas.  The  Triumphs  of  London  :  Performed  On 
Tuesday,  October  xxix.  1678.  For  the  Entertainment  of  the  Right 
Honourable,  ...  Sir  James  Edwards  Knight  .  .  .  Containing  A  true 
Description  of  the  several  Pageants,  with  the  Speeches  spoken  on  each 
Pageant.  Together  with  the  Songs  sung  in  this  Solemnity.  All  set 
forth  at  the  proper  Costs  and  Charges  of  the  Worshipful  Company  of 
Grocers.  Designed  and  Composed  by  Tho.  Jordan,  Gent.  .  .  London, 
Printed  for  John  Play  ford,  ...  1678.    4to. 

A — C  in  fours.      From  the  library  of  Mr.  Corser. 

London  in  Luster :  Projecting  Many  bright  Beams  of  Tri- 


umph :  Disposed  into  Several  Representations  of  Scenes  and  Pageants. 
Performed  with  great  Splendor  On  Wednesday,  October  xxix.  1679. 
At  the  Initiation  and  Instalment  of  the  Right  Honourable  Sir  Robert 
Clayton,  Knight,  Lord  Mayor  of  the  City  of  London.  Dignified  With 
divers  delightful  Varieties  of  Presentors,  with  Speeches,  Songs,  and 
Actions,  properly  and  punctually  described.  All  set  forth  at  the 
proper  Cost  and  Charges  of  the  Worshipful  Company  of  Drapers. 

Devised  and  Composed  by  Tho.  Jordan,  Gent London,  Printed 

for  John  Play  ford  at  the  Temple  Church,  1679.    4to. 

A — C  in  fours.    From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

London's  Glory,  Or,  The  Lord  Mayor's  Show  :  Containing 


an  Illustrious  Description  ,of  the  several  Triumphant  Pageants,  On 
which  are  represented  Emblematical  Figures,  Artful  pieces  of  Archi- 
tecture, and  Rural  Dancing,  with  the  Speeches  spoken  in  each  Pageant ; 
Also,  Three  new  Songs,  the  first  in  praise  of  the  Merchant-Taylors,  the 
second  the  Protestants  Exhortation,  and  the  third  the  plotting  Papists 
Litany,  with  their  proper  Tunes  either  to  be  Sung  or  Play'd.  Per- 
formed on  Friday,  October  xxix.  1680.  for  the  Entertainment  of  the 
Right  Honourable  Sir  Patience  Warde,  Knight,  Lord  Mayor  of  the 
City  of  London.  At  the  proper  Cost  and  Charges  of  the  Right  Wor- 
shipful Company  of  Merchant-Taylors.  Invented  and  Composed  by 
Tho.  Jordan,  Gent.  [Quotation  from  Horace  de  Arte  Poet.]  London, 
Printed  for  John  and  Henry  Play  ford,  1 680.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B— C  in  fours.    From  the  Bindley  and  JoUey  collections. 


JORDAN— JO  SEP  HUS.  787 

JORDAN,  Thomas.  London's  Joy,  Or,  The  Lord  Mayors  Show: 
Triumphantly  Exhibited  in  Various  Representations,  Scenes,  and  splen- 
did Ornaments,  with  divers  pertinent  Figures  and  Movements :  Per- 
formed On  Saturday,  October  xxix.  1681.  At  the  Liauguration  of 
the  Right  Honourable  Sir  John  Moore,  Knight,  Lord  Mayor  of  the 
City  of  London.  With  the  Several  Speeches,  and  Songs,  which  were 
spoken  on  the  Pageants  in  Cheapside,  and  Sung  in  Guild-Hail  during 
Dinner.  All  the  Charges  and  Expencs  of  the  Industrious  designs  being 
the  sole  undertaking  of  the  Worshipful  Company  of  Grocers.  Devised 
and  Composed  by  Tho.  Jordan,  Gent.  Omne  tnlit,  ^c.  London, 
Printed  for  JoJm  and  Henry  Play  ford,  168 1.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 
The  Triumphs  of  London  :  Performed  on  Monday,  October 


xxix.  1683.  For  the  Entertainment  of  the  Right  Honourable,  and 
truly  Noble  Pattern  of  Prudence  and  Loyalty,  Sir  Henry  Tulse, 
Knight,  .  . .  Containing  a  Description  of  the  whole  Solemnity.  With 
Two  new  Songs  set  to  Music.  London,  Printed  for  Jolin  and  Henry 
Play  ford,  1683.    4to. 

Four  leaves,  two  of  which  are  occupied  by  the  music.     From  the  libraries  of 
Mr.  Jolley  and  Mr.  Corser. 

Wit  in  a  Wildernesse  Of  Promiscuous  Poesie.  By  the  Author 


Tho.  Jordan London  Pritited  by  R.[odert]  A.[nstin].    Sm.  8vo. 

Twenty-four  leaves.     In  verse. 

From  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Utterson  and  Mr.  Corser.  This  is  one  of  the  books 
of  which  Jordan  was  accustomed  to  dedicate  each  copy  to  a  different  person  ;  this 
is  inscribed,  in  a  type  distinct  from  the  rest  of  the  volume,  to  Sir  Thomas 
Hussey. 

JOSEPHUS,  Flavius.  Flavii  Joseph!  quae  reperiri  potuerunt. 
Opera   omnia  Graec^  et  Latine   Cum   Notis  et   Nova   versione   Jo. 

Hudsoni Omnia  collegit,  disposuit,  et   diligenter  recensuit  S. 

Havercampus.    Amst.  1726.    2  vols.    Folio.    Large  paper.    BL.  M. 

Genuine  Works.    Translated  by  William  Whiston.    London. 


1737.    Bound  in  two  volumes.    Folio.    Large  paper.    Map  and  plate. 
Flavii  Josepi  \sic\  ....  viri  ludaei  de  Imperatrice  Ratione, 


deque  inclyto   septem  fratrum    Macabaeorum,  ac   fortissimas  eorum 

matris  divae  Solomonse   martyrio   liber,   a  D.  Erasmo   Roterodamo, 

diligenter  recognitus  ac  emendatus [Colophon.]   Excudcbat 

[Colonice]   suis   typis   Eiicharius   Ceruicormis.    \s.  «.]    4to.     Woodcuts. 

BL.  M. 

Forty-eight  leaves. 


788  J0SSELYN—70URNAEL. 

JOSSELYN,  John.  New-Englands  Rarities  Discovered  :  in  Birds, 
Beasts,  Fishes,  Serpents,  and  Plants  of  that  Country.  Together  with  The 
Physical  and  Chyrurgical  Remedies  wherewith  the  Natives  constantly 
use  to  Cure  their  Distempers,  Wounds,  and  Sores.  Also  A  perfect  De- 
scription of  an  Indian  Sqva,  in  all  her  Bravery;  with  a  Poem  not  im- 
projjerly  conferr'd  upon  her.  Lastly  A  Chronological  Table  of  the 
most  remarkable  Passages  in  that  Country  amongst  the  English. 
Illustrated  with  Cuts.  By  John  Josselyn,  Gent.  London,  Printed  for  G. 
Widdowes  at  tlie  Green  Dragon  in  St.  Paul's  Church-yard,  1672. 
Sm.  8vo.    BK.  M. 

A— H  vi  in  eights,  title  on  A  2.  The  last  leaf  but  one  is  a  list  of  "  Books 
Printed  and  Sold  by  Giles  Widdows,"  and  the  last  leaf  bears  only  the  printer's 
device.    Between  pp.  54-55  is  a  folding  woodcut. 

An  Account  of  two  Voyages  to  New-England.    Wherein  you 

have  the  setting  out  of  a  Ship,  with  the  charges ;  The  prices  of  all 
necessaries  for  furnishing  a  Planter  and  his  Family  at  his  first  coming ; 
A  Description  of  the  Countrey,  Natives  and  Creatures,  with  their  Mer- 
chants and  Physical  use  ;  The  Government  of  the  Countrey  as  it  is  now 
possessed  by  the  English,  &c.  A  large  Chronological  Table  of  the 
most  remarkable  passages,  from  the  first  discovering  of  the  Continent 
of  America,  to  the  year  1673.    By  John  Josselyn  Gent. 

Memner.  distich  rendred  English  by  Dr.  Heylin. 

Heart,  take  thine  ease, 
Men  hard  to  please 

Thou  haply  might'st  offend, 
Though  one  .speak  ill 
Of  thee,  some  will 

Say  better ;  there's  an  end. 

London,  Printed  for  Giles  Widdows,  at  tlie  Green  Dragon  in  St.  Paufs- 
Church-yard.    1674.    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves,  the  first  with  the  printer's  device  and  imprimatur,  the  last  with  the 
errata.     B — X  4  in  eights,  but  no  sigs.  N— O. 

Dedicated  to  the  President  and  Fellows  of  the  Royal  Society.  The  errata  are 
excused  on  the  ground  of  the  "  raggedness  of  the  copy." 

JOURNAEL  Vande  Legatie,  gedaen  inde  laren  1627.  en  1628.  by 
Rochus  vandcn  Honacrt,  Andries  Bicker,  ende  Simon  van  Beaumout. 
Inhoudendc  cort  en  warachtich  vcrhael,  so  vant  gene  dagelijcx  is  gepas- 

seert,  de  ganLsche  Reyse  ghcduyrendc Door  A.  B.    fAmstel- 

redain.    1632.    Oblong  4to.    Plates. 

JOURNAEL  Gehouden  op's  Lants  Schip  de  Spiegel,  Van't  gene 
gepasseert  en  verricht  is  op  de  Vloot  van  haer  H".  M°  de  Hccrn  Staten- 
Gcneracl  dcr  Vcrccnighdc  Nederlanden,  soo   in  de  Middellantsche 


youssE—yoYE.  789 

Zee,  als  op  dc  Custcn  van  Africa  en  America.  Onder  't  Belcyt  van 
....  Michicl  de  Ruytcr,  als  Admiracl,  En  de  Heer  Ian  Corndis  van 
Mcppolcn,  als  Vice-Admirael  In  den  Jare  1664  en  1665.  t' Aiiisterdam. 
1665.    4to. 

Engraved  title  ;  letterpress  title  ;  pp.  5-82  ;  last  leaf  not  paged. 

JOUSSE  DE  LA  FLECHE,  Mathurin.  La  Fidelle  Ouucrturc 
de  lart  De  Scrnirier;  ou  Ion  void  Les  principaulx  prcccptes,  Des- 
scings,  et  figures  touchant  Lcs  experiences,  et  operations  Manuelles 
dudict  Art.  Ensemble  Vn  petit  traictd  De  diuerses  trcmpes.  Le  tout 
faict  et  Composd  par  Mathurin  loussc  de  la  Fleche.  A  La  Flcche 
Chez  Georges  Griveav  Iinprintcvr  Ordinaire  dv  Roy.  1627.  Avee privi- 
lege dv  Roy.    Folio.    Plates  and  rvoodcuts.    BR.  M. 

Engraved  title,  dedication,  and  table,  4  leaves  ;  A— N  in  sixes,  except  I,  which 
has  only  4  leaves. 

The  book  is  rarely  found  in  fine  and  perfect  state.  Having  been  intended  for 
artificers,  it  is  ordinarily  much  worn  with  use. 

JOUTEL,  Monsieur.  Journal  Historique  du  dernier  Voyage  que 
feu  M.  de  la  Sale  fit  dans  le  Golfe  de  Mexique,  pour  trouvcr  I'cnibou- 
chure  &  le  cours  de  la  Riviere  Missicipi  nommde  a  present  la  Riviere 

de  Saint  Loiiis,  qui  traverse  la  Louisiane Paris.    171 3.    Sm. 

8vo.    Map. 

JOUVENCEL.  Le  liure  du  Jouuecel,  Lequel  traicte  de  la  guerre 
tat  de  assieger  forteresses  et  pays,  que  assembler  ostz  et  gouuerncr  et 
duire  ges  en  guerre,  selon  Vegcce,  frontin,  spartien  et  autres  acteurs. 
[Colophon.]  Noiiiicllcinent  iiiiprime.  Par  Alain  lotricn.  Lyhraire  im- 
primeur,  demourant  a  Paris  en  la  rue  neufiie  nostre  Dame  a  lenseigne 
de  Icscu  de  France.    \s.  d^    4to.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts.    G.  M. 

This  edition  was  quite  unknown  to  Brunet.  It  consists  of  88  leaves.  Folio  88 
is  occupied  by  a  large  woodcut  on  each  side  and  is  not  numbered.  The  title  fomis 
folio  I.     The  other  leaves  are  numbered  ii — Ixxxvii. 

JOVIUS,  Paulus.  The  Worthy  tract  of  Paulus  louius.  contayn- 
ing  a  Discourse  of  rare  inuentions,  both  Militarie  and  Amorous  called 
Impresc.  Whcrcunto  is  added  a  Preface  contayning  the  Arte  of  com- 
posing them,  with  many  other  notable  deuiscs.  By  Samucll  Danicll 
late  Student  in  Oxenforde.  At  London,  Pri7itedfor  Simon  Watcrson. 
1585.    Sm.  8vo. 

•,  8  leaves  ;  A — H  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  .Sir  Edward  Dimmock,  Champion  to  her  Majesty.  This  is  followed 
by  an  epistle,  directed  to  the  author  by  a  friend,  N.  W.  from  Oxford.  This  was 
Samuel  Daniel's  earliest  appearance  in  print. 

JOYE,  George.  The  refutation  ofthebyshop  of  Winchesters  derke 
declaratio  of  his  false  articles,  once  before  confuted  by  George  loye.  Be 
not  decciued  by  this  bysshops  false  bokes.  Ilcere  nowc  the  tother  parte, 


790  yUAN  MANUEL— JULIUS  IL 

and  iudge  truely  of  the  trueth.   For  the  veritie  wyll  haue  the  victorye. 
[Without  place  or  printer.']    M.D.XLVI.    Sm.  8vo.   Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A— Cc  in  eights,  but  no  sig.  Z. 

At  the  end  of  the  treatise  occurs  :  "  Yours  to  aunswer  you  at  all  tymes  for  the 
defence  of  gods  veritie.    George  Joye."    Joye's  real  name  was  Clarke. 

JUAN  MANUEL.  El  Conde  Lucanor.  Compuesto  per  el  exce- 
Icntissimo  principe  don  luan  Manuel,  hijo  del  Infante  don  Manuel,  y 

nicto  del  sancto  rey  don  Fernando Imprcsso  en  Seuilla,  en 

casa  de  Herjiando  Diaz.    Affo  de  iS7S-    4to.    R.  M. 

This  copy  agrees  with  the  collation  given  by  Brunei,  and  with  the  copy  in  the 
British  Museum,  but  the  vocabulary  should  be  followed  by  a  single  leaf  bearing 
the  printer's  device. 

In  TicknoHs  "  History  of  Spanish  Literature,"  vol.  i.,  p.  69,  this  edition  of  "  El 
.  Conde  Lucanor"  is  described  as  "  one  of  the  rarest  books  in  the  world." 

"  It  is  a  collection  of  forty-nine  tales,  anecdotes,  and  apologues,  clearly  in  the 
Oriental  manner  ;  the  first  hint  for  which  was  probably  taken  from  the  '  Uisciplina 
Clericalis '  of  Petrus  Alphonsus,  a  collection  of  Latin  stories  made  in  Spain  about 
two  centuries  earlier.  The  occasion  on  which  the  tales  of  Don  John  are  supposed 
to  be  related  is,  like  the  fictions  themselves,  invented  with  Eastern  simplicity,  and 
reminds  us  constantly  of  the  '  Thousand  and  One  Nights '  and  their  multitudinous 
imitations." — Ticknor's  Hist,  of  Spanish  Literature,  vol.  i.,  p.  64. 

JUBINAL,  ACHILLE.  Nouveau  Recueil  de  Contes,  Dits,  Fabliaux 
et  autres  Pieces  Inedites  des  XIIP,  XIV  et  XV'  Siecles  pour  faire 
suite  aux  collections  Legrand  D'Aussy,  Barbazan  et  M^on.  Paris. 
1839.    2  vols.    Svo.    Large  paper.    G.  M. 

JULIAN,  The  Emperor.  The  Arguments  of  the  Emperor  Julian 
against  the  Christians,  translated  from  the  Greek  Fragments  pre- 
served by  Cyril,  Bishop  of  Alexandria.  To  which  are  added  Extracts 
from  the  other  works  of  Julian  relative  to  the  Christians.  By  Thomas 
Taylor.    Loudon:  Printed  for  tlie  Translator.    1809.    Svo. 

JULIAN,  Don  Antonio.  La  Perla  de  la  America,  Provincia 
de  Santa  Marta,  reconocida,  observada  y  expuesta  en  discursos  histo- 
ricos.    Madrid.    1787.    4to. 

JULIUS  II.  Breue  Julii  Secudi  Pont.  Max.  ad  Reges  Duces  & 
principes  christianos :  in  quo  cotinenf  potiores :  licet  plures  sint  alie 
cause  priuationis  Cardinaliu  Hereticoru  ScismaticoriJc|j.  {^Sine  idlA 
notd.    Romce.    Circa  i  $11.]    4to. 

Title  and  two  leaves  of  text. 

Bebstliche  Breue [Sine  loco.    O'rca  li,  11.]    4to. 

This  is  a  translation  of  the  preceding  piece.  A  note  to  the  Latin  edition  in  the 
British  Museum  says  :  "This  Brief  of  Julius  II.  throws  light  upon  the  transactions 
that  took  place  in  Italy  in  the  year  151 1,  and  which  are  related  in  the  viii.  chap,  of 
the  lite  of  Leo  X." 


JULIUS   II.— JUSTICE.  791 

JULIUS  II.    Bulla  intimatiSis  Generalis  Concilii  apud  Lateranum 

per  S.  d.  n.  Juliu  Papa.  ii.  edita.     \_Sine  nlld  notd.     Roma.    Circa 

151 1.]    4to. 

Ten  leaves. 

Bulla  Monitorii  Apostolici :  cotra  tres  Reueredissimos  Cardi- 


nales.  vt  redeat  ad  obedietia  S.  d.  n.  Pape.  Ne  Scisma  in  eccl'ia  sancta 
dei  oriet.    [Sine  tilld  notd.    Romcs.    Circa  i  $11.]    4to. 

Cursii   Panegyris   de   federe  inter  Juliu .  II.  Pont.  Max.  et 

Hispan.  Rege.    {Sine  Jilld  notd.    Roince.    Circa  i  $11]    4to. 

Oratio  Maximi  Coruini  Parthenopei  Episcopi  Esernien.  Sanc- 

tissimo  Julio  Secundo.  Pont.  Max.  dicta.     [Sine   nlld   notd.    Rovice. 
Circa  15 11.]    4to. 

Oratio  Angeli  Anachorite  Vallisumbrose  pro  Concilio  Late- 

ranensi.    Contra   Conuenticulum    Pisanum.    [Sine  nlld  notd.    Romce. 
Circa  1511.]    4to. 

JUNIUS,  Fr.  Etymologicum  Anglicanum.  Ex  Autographo  de- 
scripsit    &   accessionibus    permultis    auctum    edidit    Edwardus    Lye. 

Prsemittuntur  Vita  Auctoris  et  Grammatica  Anglo-Saxonica. 

Oxonii.    1743.    Folio.    Large  paper.    Portrait. 

JUNIUS,  Hadrianus.  Hadriani  lunii  Medici  Emblemata.  Eivs- 
dem  aenigmatvm  libellus.  Antverpice,  Ex  officinaChristophori  Plantini. 
1569.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

A — I  in  eights. 

JUSTICE  OF  THE  PEACE.  Loffice  et  auctoryte  des  Justyces 
de  peas  copyle  et  extrayte  hors  des  aunciet  liures  sibien  del  comen  ley 
coe  dez  estatuts  ....  1538.  Cum  prinilcgio  ..  [Colophon.]  Imprynted 
at  London  in  Fletestrcte  by  me  Robert  Redman,  dwellyngc  at  the  sygneof 
the  George,  nexte  to  S.  Dunstoties  churc/ie.  Cum  priuilegio  Regali.  Sm. 
8vo.    Black  letter. 

+,  6  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  A  (repeated) — Co  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  with  Pinson's 
device  on  the  recto,  the  verso  blank. 

JUSTICE,  Elizabeth.  A  Voyage  to  Russia:  Describing  The 
Laws,  Manners,  and  Customs,  of  that  Great  Empire,  as  govern'd,  at 
this  present,  by  that  Excellent  Princess,  the  Czarina.  Shewing  The 
Beauty  of  Her  Palace,  the  Grandeur  of  Her  Courtiers,  the  Forms  of 
Building  at  Petersburgh,  and  other  Places :  With  several  Entertaining 

Adventures,  that  happened  in  the  Passage  by  Sea,  and  Land 

To  which  is  added.  Translated  from  the  Spanish,  A  Curious  Account  of 
the  Relicks,  which  are  exhibited  in  the  Cathedral  of  Oviedo,  a  City  of 
Spain  ....  York:  Printed  by  Thomas  Geiit,  near  the  Star,  in  Stone- 
Gate.     1739.    8vo.     Woodcuts. 

A,  4  leaves ;  subscribers'  names,  4  leaves ;  B— I  in  fours. 


792  7  US  TIN-7  US  TIN  US. 

JUSTIN  MARTYR'S  Dialogue  with  Trypho  the  Jew.  Trans- 
lated from  the  Greek  into  English,  with  Notes.  By  Henry  Brown. 
Oxford  ...  1755.    2  vols.    8vo. 

JUSTINIANUS.  Digestorvm  sev  Pandectarvm  luris  ciuilis  libri 
quinquaginta.nunc  primumad  fidem  Pandectarum  Florentinarum  sex- 

centis  locis  emendati,  supra  Gregorij  Haloandri  editionem 

Parisiis.    Apiid  Carolam  Guillard  vidua  Claudii  Cheualloiiii  sub  Sole 

aureo MD.XLVIII.    7   parts   bound   in   6  vols.    Nouellarum 

Constitvtionvm  D  N  lustiniani  principis,  quae  exstant,  &  ut  exstant, 
uolumen.    Appositi  svnt  item   Canones  sanctorum   Apostoloru    per 

Clementem  in  vnum  congesti,  Gregorio  Haloandro  interprete 

Parisiis,  Apud  Carolam  Guillard MD.XL  VIII.    Sm.  8vo. 

These  volumes  are  fine  specimens  of  French  ornamental  binding  of  the  sixteenth 
century.  The  sides  are  elaborately  tooled,  and  the  patterns  picked  out  with  different 
colours.  The  set  of  books  displays  an  unusual  style,  each  volume  being  tooled  to  a 
different  pattern,  and  though  the  obverse  and  reverse  covers  of  each  volume  are  alike 
in  design,  the  colouring  of  the  two  sides  is  varied.  The  binding  appears,  from  the 
fleur-de-lis  and  dolphin  surmounted  by  a  coronet,  which  are  worked  into  the  design, 
to  have  been  executed  for  a  Dauphin  of  France ;  but,  from  an  inscription  on  the 
title  of  the  first  volume,  the  book  appears  to  have  already  passed  into  other  hands 
in  the  sixteenth  century.  The  inscription  runs:  "Hoc  utriusq.  Juris  corpus,  per- 
petuM  memoria;,  et  amicitis  ergo,  Nobili  et  omatissimo  viro.  D.  Udalrico  Purzero, 
dono  dedit  Joannes  Georgius  k  Fraysing  et  Aychach." 

When  this  book  was  first  placed  in  the  library,  the  second  and  sixth  parts  of  the 
Digests  were  missing ;  the  sixth  (in  the  same  binding  as  the  others)  was  acciden- 
tally purchased  from  Italy  some  years  afterwards,  and  it  is  hoped  that  the  second 
may  yet  be  recovered. 

JUSTINUS.    [On  the  verso  of  the  first  leaf]  Ivstini  Historici  in 

Pompeii  Trogi  Historias  Liber  primus  incipit. 

[Colophon.]  Historias  uctcres  percgrina(f  gcsta  retiohio 
lustinus .  lege  me :  sum  trogus  ipse  breiiis. 
Me  gallus  ueneta  Icnsoii  Nicolaiis  in  tirbe 
Formauit:  Maura  principe  CJiristophoro. 

lustini  Historici  Clarissimi  in  Trogi  Pompeii  Historias  liber  XLIIII. 

feliciter  explicit.    .M.CCCC.LXX.    Folio.     R. 

The  first  edition  with  a  date.  140  leaves,  thirty  lines  to  the  page.  Hain, 
9647. 

[On  folio  I.]    lustini  Historici  Clarissimi  In  Trogi  Pompeii 

Historias  Exordium.  [Colophon.]  Imprcssuin  MVi per  XpofoBf  Valda- 
fer  ratisponensem  anno  domini.  M.CCCC.LXX  VI.  kV.  lunii.  Folio. 
R.  M. 

One  hundred  and  eight  leaves. 


Trogi  Pompei  Externae  Historiae  in  compendium  ab  lustino 

rcdactae.  Externorum   imperatorum   uitae  authore   Aemylio    Probo. 


yUSTINUS—K.,  p.  793 

[Colophon.]  Venetiis  in  Aedibus  Aldi  et  Andreae  Asulani  Soceri 
mense  Ian.   M.D.XXII.    8vo.    BL.  M. 

Renouard,  "  Annales  des  Aide,"  vol.  i.,  p.  222. 

JUSTINUS.  Justini  Historiae  Philippicae  cum  notis  variorum. 
Lugd.  Bat.    1760.    2  vols.    8vo.    R.  M. 

JUVENALIS  et  PERSIUS.  [On  the  first  leaf,  recto]  lunii 
luuenalis  aquinatis  liber  primus.    [Sine  loco  aiit  anno.]    Folio.    R.  M. 

This  is  placed  by  Brunei  as  the  earliest  edition  in  folio.  It  has  seventy-two 
leaves,  with  thirty-two  lines  to  the  page.  The  types  do  not  appear  to  have  been 
identified  by  any  bibliographer;  but  Brunet  quotes  several  conjectures  as  to  the 
printer. 

Jvvenalis.    Persius.    [Colophon.]     Venetiis  in  cedibus  Aldi. 

Mefise  Augusta.    M.DI.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

From  the  library  of  Bilibald  Pirckheimer.  On  the  title  is  written  :  "  Bilibaldo 
Pirkamer  Andreas  Conetus  D.D." 

Renouard,  "Annales  des  Aide,"  vol.  i.,  No.  6. 

Jvvenalis.    Persius.    [Colophon.]     Venetiis  in  Aedibus  Aldi, 

et  Andreae  Soceri.    Mense  Augusta  M.D.I.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

This  edition,  Renouard  says,  "  est  incontestablement  postdrieure  de  plusieurs 
anndes,  parce  qu'elle  est  chiffrde,  qu'elle  porte  I'ancre  sur  le  titre,  &c. ..." 

Jvvenalis.  Persius.  Aldus.  M.D.XXXV.  [Colophon.]  Vene- 
tiis, in  Aedibus  Haeredum  Aldi,  et  Atidreae  Soceri,  mense  Martio, 
MDXXXV.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

D.  Junii  Juvenalis  &  Auli  Persii  Flacci  Satyrae  cum  veteris 

scholiastse  et  variorum  commentariis.    Antst.    1684.    8vo. 

Juvenal's  Sixteen  Satyrs  or,  a  Svrvey  Of  The  Manners  and 

Actions  of  Mankind.  With  Arguments,  Marginall  Notes,  and  Anno- 
tations clearing  the  obscure  places  out  of  the  History,  Lawes  and 
Ceremonies  of  the  Romans.    By  Sir  Robert  Stapylton  Knight,  Gent. 

in  Ordinary  of  the  Privy  Chamber  to  the  Prince London, 

Printed  for  Humphery  Moseley 1647.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — T  in  eights,  and  a  leaf  of  errata,  not  including  a  frontispiece  by  Tho.  Rawlins 
and  a  portrait  of  the  translator  by  W.  Marshall. 


K. 

K.,  P.  Flosculum  Poeticum.  Poems  Divine  and  Humane.  Panegy- 
rical, Satyrical,  Ironical.  By  P.  K.  London,  Printed  for  Benjamin 
Billingsley  at   the  Printing-Press,   near    the  Royal  Exchange,  1684. 

Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — M  in  fours. 

4V 


794  KABBALA—KEGELIUS. 

KABBALA  Denudata  seu  Doctrina  Hebrseorum  transcendentalis 

et  metaphysica  atque  theologica Sulzbaci.   1677-84. Adum- 

bratio  KabbaLx  Christians Francofurti  ad  Moenum.    1684. 

2  vols,  bound  in  4.    4to.    Frontispiece  and  plates. 

This  copy  contains  the  part  entitled  "  Porta  Coelorum,"  which  is  frequently 
wanting. 

KEACH,  Elias.  A  Banquetting-House  Full  of  Spiritual  De- 
lights :  Or,  Hymns  and  Spiritual  Songs  On  several  Occasions.  Cen- 
tury I.  London,  Printed  by  Bcnja.  Harris  for  the  Author.  1696. 
Sm.  8vo. 

A,  6  leaves  ;  B,  12  leaves  ;  C,  6  leaves  ;  D— E,  12  leaves  each  ;  F,  6  leaves  ; 
G,  12  leaves. 

Dedicated  by  the  author  from  his  study  in  Blue-Anchor  Alley,  Bunhill  Fields, 
"  To  the  Sheep  and  Lambs  of  Christ,  meeting  at  Curriers-Hall,  London."  No  more 
is  known  to  have  been  published,  nor  is  any  other  copy  on  record.  Even  the  name 
of  Elias  Keach  is  new  to  bibliography.    From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

KEATING,  Jeoffrey.  A  General  History  of  Ireland,  viz.  A 
full  and  impartial  Account  of  the  Original  of  that  Kingdom  ;  with  the 
Lives  and  Reigns  of  an  Hundred  and  Seventy-four  succeeding  Mo- 
narchs  of  the  Milesian  Race.  The  Original  of  the  Gadelians,  their 
Travels  into  Spain  ....  Faithfully  translated  from  the  original  Irish 
Language,  by  Dermo'd  O'Connor  Esq  ;  with  many  Improvements  from 
the  Psalters  of  Tara  and  Cashel,  and  other  Authentick  Records  .... 
The  Third  Edition.  With  an  Appendix .  ...London:  MDCCXXXVIII. 
Folio.    Large  paper.    BL.  M. 

Portrait  of  Bryen  Boiroimhe  and  title,  2  leaves  ;  dedication,  2  leaves  ;  editor's 
preface,  3  leaves  ;  Keating's  preface,  1 2  leaves  ;  list  of  subscribers,  3  leaves  ;  table 
of  kings,  2  leaves  ;  genealogy  of  Heber  Fiorm,  and  of  Ir,  6  leaves  ;  pedigree  of 
William  O'Brien,  Earl  of  Inchiquin,  i  leaf;  map,  1  leaf;  pp.  1-564  (no  pp.  100-12); 
verses,  i  leaf ;  pedigrees,  28  plates  and  an  extra  one  between  5  and  6,  or  altogether 
29  ;  arms,  I2  plates  ;  appendix,  10  leaves. 

KEATS,  John.    Poems.    London :...  \%\'j .    Sm.  8vo. 

First  edition. 

Endymion :  A  Poetic    Romance.     By  John  Keats.     "  The 

Stretched  Metre  of  an  Antique  Song."   London:  1818.    8vo. 

First  edition. 

Lamia,  Isabella,  The  Eve  of  St.  Agnes,  and  other  Poems. 

By  John  Keats,  Author  of  Endymion.    London:  1^20.    Sm.  8vo. 

First  edition. 

KEGELIUS,  Philippus.    Zwolf  geistliche  Andachten Liine- 

burg.     165 1.    Sm.  8vo. 


KEITH— KEMPE.  -j^t^ 

A  fine  specimen  of  old  German  binding  in  solid  silver.  On  the  sides  are  en- 
graved in  relief  the  subjects  of  Joseph  relating  his  dream  to  his  brethren  and  of  his 
brethren  selling  him  into  Egypt. 

KEITH,  George.  Help  in  time  of  Need  from  the  God  of  Help. 
To  the  People  of  the  (so  called)  Church  of  Scotland  ....  Printed  in 
tlie  Year  1665.    4to. 

A — L  2  in  fours. 

This  was  written  by  Keith  during  his  confinement  in  the  Tolbooth  at  Aberdeen. 
There  is  a  preface  by  Alexander  J  affray. 

The  Plea  of  the  Innocent  against  the  False  Judgment  of  the 

Guilty  being  a  Vindication  of  George  Keith  and  his  Friends  ..... 
\No place,  printer' s  name,  or  date?^    [Philadelphia,  i6q2i\    4to.    R.  M. 

A — C  in  fours. 

See  Smith's  "  Catalogue  of  Friends'  Books,"  vol.  ii.,  p.  25. 

KEITH,  Robert.  An  Historical  Catalogue  of  the  Scottish 
Bishops,  down  to  the  Year  1688.  Also,  an  Account  of  all  the  Reli- 
gious Houses,  that  were  in  Scotland  at  the  time  of  the  Reformation : 
By  John  Spottiswoode  Esq.  Edited  by  Rev.  M.  Russel.  .  .  .  Edinburgh. 
1824.    8vo.    BL.  M. 

KELLIE,  Richard.  The  Tragedie  of  Borosco  a  lord  of  Poland. 
[About  \62iO^    4to.    In  t/ie  original  vellum. 

MS.  on  twenty-two  leaves.    In  eight-line  stanzas. 

The  Tragedie  of  the  Lord  Boroscho  of  Poland.    From  a  MS. 


in  the  Hunterian  Museum  at  Glasgow.    Printed  for  Private  Circula- 
tion.   1 870.    4to. 

Presentation  copy  from  the  editor,  Mr.  Alexander  Smith  of  Glasgow.  Only 
fifty  copies  printed.  The  text  here  given  differs  somewhat  from  that  of  the  MS. 
described  above,  which  does  not  contain  the  leaf  of  dedication  with  the  author's 
name  at  the  foot  described  by  Mr.  Smith  as  written  on  paper  in  leaf-gold. 

KELLY,  James.  A  Complete  Collection  of  Scotish  Proverbs  Ex- 
plained and  made  Intelligible  to  the  English  Reader.  .  .  .  London. 
172 1.    Svo. 

KEMPE,  William.  A  Dvtifvl  Invective,  Against  the  moste 
haynous  Treasons  of  Ballard  and  Babington :  with  other  their  Ad- 
herents, latelie  executed.  Together,  with  the  horrible  attempts  and 
actions  of  the  Q.  of  Scottes  :  and  the  Sentence  pronounced  against 
her  at  Fodderingay.  Newlie  compiled  and  set  foorthe,  in  English 
verse:  For  a  Newyeares  gifte  to  all  loyall  English  subiects.  by  W. 
Kempe.  Imprinted  at  Loitdon  by  Richard  lones,  dwelling  at  the  signe 
of  the  Rose  and  crowne,  mere  Holborne  bridge.    1 5  87.   4to.   Blcuk  letter. 


796  KEMPIS—KEN. 

Four  leaves.    In  verse. 

From  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Bright  and  Mr.  Corser.  The  only  other  copy  known 
is  in  the  British  Museum.  The  author  was  a  schoolmaster  at  Plymouth.  He  dedi- 
cates his  work  to  George  Barne,  Lord  Mayor  of  London.  Reprinted  in  "  Fugitive 
Poetical  Tracts,"  1875,  first  series. 

KEMPIS,  Thomas  A.  Incipit  liber  prim'  Johanis  Gerson  cacel- 
larii  parisicsis.  De  imitatione  xpi  x  de  conteptu  omnium  vanitatu 
mundi.  [Colophon.]  Explicit  liber  quarta  %  vltinnis  de  sacrameto 
altaris.  Johanis  gerson  cdcellarii  parisiensis  de  coteptu  viftdi  deuotii  z 
vtile  opHSCidu.  Impressu  Angtiste  arte  i  impensis  Erhardi  ratdolt  viri 
solert.    Anno  dni  M.CCCC.lxxxviii.    4to.    BL.  M. 

Tabula,  2  leaves  ;  a — f  vi  in  eights. 

From  the  library  of  Bilibald  Pirckheimer.  With  the  following  note  in  his  auto- 
graph on  the  first  leaf :  "  Thoma;  de  Kempis,  vel  secundum  alios  Joan.  Gersonis 
libri  De  imitando  Christo." 

De   Imitatione  Christi   libri  quatuor.    Impr.  Parisiis   aira 

Edwini  Tross.    1858.    Printed  upon  vellum.    Sm.  8vo.    B.  M. 

This  diminutive  volume  is  printed  in  the  smallest  type  ever  used  for  printing  on 
vellum. 

The  Imitation  or  following  of  Christ,  and  the  contemning  of 

worldly  vanities  :  Wherevnto,  as  springing  out  of  the  same  roote,  we 
haue  adioyned  another  pretie  treatise,  entituled,  The  perpetuall  re- 
ioyce  of  the  Godly,  euen  in  this  lyfe.  [Quotation  from  Ephes.  v.] 
Scene  and  allowed  according  to  the  order  appointed.  Anno.  1568.  /;«- 
printed  at  London  by  Henry  Denham.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

The  "  Imitation,"  A — T  in  eights;  "A  short  &  pretie  treatise  touching  the  per- 
petuall Reioyce,"  &c.,  with  a  new  title,  A — D  4  in  eights. 

The  translator,  Edward  Hake,  dedicates  the  work  to  Thomas,  Duke  of  Norfolk. 
After  the  table  follows  the  crest  of  the  Duke,  with  some  English  verses  beneath 
it,  which  are,  no  doubt,  by  Hake,  who  was  the  author  of  the  poem  entitled  "  Of 
Gold's  Kingdom  &  this  unhelping  age." 

KEMPSTER,  Bartholomew.  Batt  upon  Batt.  A  Poem  upon 
The  Parts,  Patience,  and  Pains,  of  Barth.  Kempster,  Clerk,  Poet,  Cutler, 
of  Holy-Rood-Parish  in  Southampton.  By  a  Person  of  Quality.  To 
which  is  annexed  the  Vision,  Wherein  is  described  Batt's  Person  and 
Ingenuity ;  With  an  account  of  the  Antient  and  Present  State  and 
Glory  of  Southampton.  By  the  same  Author.  Dedicated  to  the 
Gentry  of  Hampshire,  for  their  Diversion  :  But  more  especially  to  the 
Inhabitants  of  Southampton.  London:  Printed  for  Samuel  Crouch. 
1680.    4to. 

Six  leaves. 

KEN,  Thomas,  Bishop  of  Winchester.  A  Manual  of  Prayers  for 
the  Use  of  the  Scholars  of  Winchester  Colledge :  And  all  other  De- 


KENNEDY— KENNETT.  797 

vout  Christians.    London,  Printed  for  Henry  Brome and 

William  Clark  in  Winchester,  1681.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — F  in  twelves,  including  the  anns  of  William  of  Wykeham  as  a  frontis- 
piece. 

KENNEDY,  John.  The  Ladies  Delight,  Or:  The  English 
Gentlewomans  History  of  Calanthrop  and  Lucilla.  Conspicvovsly 
demonstrating  the  various  mutabilities  of  Fortune  in  their  loues,  with 
euery  seuerall  circumstance  of  ioyes  and  crosses,  fortunate  exploits, 
and  hazardous  aduentures,  which  either  of  them  sustained  before  they 
could  attaine  the  prosperous  euent  of  their  wished  aimes.  By  lohn 
Kennedie. 

Gratis  Corycio,  niihi  nectar  Castalis  vndce, 

Mnemosynes  natce,  ftocte  dedere  nonem. 

London:  Printed  by  Thomas  Harper  for  Michael  Sparke,  163 1.  Sm. 
8vo.    O.  M. 

A,  4  leaves ;  B — H  in  eights.    A  poem  in  six-line  stanzas. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Donald  Mackaye,  Knight,  of  Stranever.  There  are  compli- 
mentary verses  by  Robert  Farley,  Walter  Bellenden,  and  Patrick  Mackenzie. 

The  only  copy  known  with  the  London  imprint.  It  is  in  fact  the  edition  of 
Edinburgh,  1626,  the  title  only  having  been  reprinted.  The  author,  in  his  dedica- 
tion, speaks  of  this  as  his  first  work  ;  it  appears  also  to  have  been  his  last.  In  a 
notice  to  the  reader  he  deprecates  hostile  criticisms,  and  cites  the  case  of  those 
who  found  fault  with  Homer,  and  were  laughed  at  because  they  condemned  what 
they  were  incompetent  to  amend. 

KENNETT,  White,  Bishop  of  Peterborough.  Parochial  Anti- 
quities Attempted  in  the  History  of  Ambrosden,  Burcester,  and  Other 

Adjacent  Parts  In  the  Counties  of  Oxford  and  Bucks Oxford, 

Printed  at  t/te  Theater,  i6<)^.     4to.    Large  paper.    R. 

Title,  I  leaf;  dedication  to  Sir  William  Glynne,  3  leaves;  preface,  4  leaves; 
A — Ooooo  in  fours.    With  nine  plates. 

Bibliothecas  Americanae  Primordia.    An  Attempt  Towards 

laying  the  Foundation  of  an  American  Library,  In  Several  Books, 
Papers,  and  Writings,  Humbly  given  to  the  Society  for  Propagation 
of  the  Gospel  in  Foreign  Parts,  For  the  Perpetual  Use  and  Benefit  of 
their  Members,  their  Missionaries,  Friends,  Correspondents,  and  Others 
concern'd  in  the  Good  Design  of  Planting  and  Promoting  Christianity 
within  Her  Majesties  Colonies  and  Plantations  in  the  West-Indies. 
By  a  Member  of  the  said  Society.  London :  Printed  for  J.  Churchill, 
at  tlie  Black  Swan  in  Pater-Noster-Row.     17 13.    4to.    G.  M. 

Accompanying  this  copy  is  an  autograph  memorandum  by  W.  Taylor,  secretary 
of  the  Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel,  stating  that  at  a  meeting  held  on 
the  19th  Nov.,  1714,  Dean  Kennett  laid  before  it  a  printed  copy  of  his  book,  and 
received  the  thanks  of  the  members  for  his  valuable  labours,  together  with  fifty 
copies  for  distribution  at  his  own  discretion. 


798  KENT—KILBURNE. 

KENT,  ELIZABETir,  Countess  of.  A  Choice  Manual,  Or,  Rare 
and  Select  Secrets  in  Physick  and  Chirurgery.  Collected,  and  practised 
by  the  Right  Honourable,  the  Countesse  of  Kent,  Late  Deceased. 
Whereto  are  added  Several  Experiments  of  the  Virtues  of  Gascon 

pouder,  and  Lapis  contra  Yarvam,  by  a  Professor  of  Physick 

The  Eleventh  Edition,  with  Additions.    London,  Printed  by  Gertrude 
Daivson,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Will.  Shears.    1659.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  portrait,  2  leaves  ;  A,  6  leaves ;  B— M  in  twelves  ;  [a  new  title]  "  A 

True  Gentlewomans  Delight Published  by  W.  J.  Gent.    Lomion,  Printed  by 

G.  Dawson.    1659."    1,  6  leaves;  m— R  in  twelves  ;  S,  8  leaves  ;  T,  i  leaf. 

The  Countess  of  Kent,  to  whom  the  first  portion  is  ascribed,  was  the  well-known 
friend  of  Selden.  It  is  dedicated  by  the  editor,  W.  J.,  to  the  wife  of  Colonel  Alex- 
ander Pophani,  as  the  sequel  is  to  the  wife  of  Sir  Francis  Pile. 

KENT.    The  Kentish  Fayre.    Or,  The  Parliament  sold  to  their 

best  worth Printed  at  Rochester,  and  are  to  be  sold  to  all  those 

that  dare  buy  them.    1648.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

A  very  curious  political  interlude,  by  a  royalist,  in  prose  and  verse. 

KETHAM,  Johannes  de.  [On  the  verso  of  a  ii.]  Incipit  fasci- 
culus medicine  compositus  per  excelletissimum  artium  ac  medecine 
doctorem :  dominu3  Joanem  de  Ketham  Alamannum :  tractans  de 
anothomia  7  diuersis  infirmitatibus :  7  corporis  humani :  cui  annectun- 
tur  multi  alii  tractatus  per  diuersos  excelletissimos  doctores  copositi. 
Necnon  anothomia  Mudini.  [Colophon.]  Impressum  Venetiis  per 
Joannem  7  Grcgorin  de  Gregoriis  fratres.  Anno  domini.M.ccccc.diexvii. 
Feb.    Folio.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

a — d  in  sixes,  e  and  f  in  fours.  The  first  leaf  bears  on  the  recto  a  large  woodcut 
of  a  master  instructing  his  pupils,  above  whom  is  inscribed,  "  Petrus  de  Montagna," 
and  the  verso  is  occupied  by  a  fine  woodcut  representing  a  consultation  of  doctors. 
The  other  woodcuts  are  also  of  large  size,  occupying  the  whole  page,  and  are 
executed  in  outline.  The  design  of  them  is  very  fine,  but  there  is  no  monogram  or 
other  indication  of  the  artist. 

KIDGELL,  John.  Original  Fables.  London:  1763.  2vols.ini. 
Sm.  Svo.    Plates.    R. 

In  English  and  French.    Lowndes  says  that  this  work  was  not  published, 

KILBURNE,   Richard.     A  Topographic,  Or   Survey    of   the 

County  of  Kent.     With  some  Chronological,  Historicall,  and  other 

matters  touching  the  same:   And  the  several  Parishes   and   Places 

therein.    By  Richard  Kilburne  of  Hawkherst,  Esquire London, 

Printed  by  Thotnas Mabb  for  Henry  Atkinson 1659.    4to- 

Portrait  by  T.  Crosse.  A— Kkkk  i  in  fours.  This  work  is,  in  fact,  an  alpha- 
betical gazetteer  of  the  county. 


KIL I A  N—KIL  L IGRE  W.  799 

KILIAN,  Lucas.  A.  B.  C.  Buechlein,  so  Herr  Lucas  Kilian  in- 
ventiert  und  gestochen  jetzundt,  aber  aus  vergunst  des  Herren  Authors 
von  F.  Regina  Hertlenn  eines  Schrevers  Tochter  nachgestochen 
worden.    Aiigspiirg.    1632.    4to. 

An  ornamental  alphabet  consisting  of  title  and  twenty-four  plates. 

KILLIGREW,  Anne.  Poems  by  Mrs.  Anne  Killigrew.  Immo- 
dicis  brevis  est  cetas,  &  rara  Senectus.  Mart.  1.  6,  Ep.  29.  .  .  .  London  : 
Printed  for  Samuel  Lowndes,  over  against  Exeter  Exchange  in  the 
Strand.     1686.    4to. 

Portrait  by  Backet  after  an  original  painting  by  the  authoress,  I  leaf;  title, 
I  leaf;  [a] — [c  i]  in  fours  ;  B — O  2  in  fours. 

From  the  libraries  of  Dr.  Bliss  and  Mr.  .Stainforth.  On  the  flyleaves  at  the 
beginning  of  the  book  is  written  an  original  elegy  to  the  memory  of  Mrs.  Killigrew, 
signed  "  E.  E.,"  who  states  that  the  deceased  was  related  to  his  late  wife. 

After  the  metrical  address  of  the  publisher  to  the  reader  comes  a  long  ode,  by 
Dryden,  to  the  memory  of  Mrs.  Anne  Killigrew.  At  p.  76  we  have  :  "  On  my 
Aunt  M"^  A.  K.  Drown'd  under  London-bridge,  in  the  Queens  Bardge,  Anno 
1641." 

KILLIGREW,  Henry.  The  Conspiracy  A  Tragedy,  as  it  was 
intended,  for  the  Nuptialls,  of  the  Lord  Charles  Herbert,  and  the 

Lady  Vlllers London.  Printed  by  lohn  Norton,  for  Andrew 

Crooke,  1638.    4to. 

A — N  3  in  fours. 

Pallantus  and  Eudora.   A  Tragcedie London.  Printed 

in  the  Year,  1653.    Folio. 

A — R,  2  leaves  each. 

This  is  the  "  Conspiracy,"  republished  with  the  author's  sanction,  and  is  in  fact  the 
first  genuine  impression  of  the  play.  Prefixed  is  a  curious  preface  by  the  publisher, 
mentioning  the  favourable  estimate  formed  by  the  public  of  the  piece,  and  especially 
by  Ben  Jonson,  who  was  then  (1638)  living,  the  only  fault  imputed  to  the  dramatist 
being  that  he  had  made  a  youth  of  seventeen  speak  like  a  man  of  thirty. 

The  title-page  was  printed  twice.  Some  copies  have  this  imprint  :  "  London, 
Printed  for  John  Hardesty  at  tJie  Black-Spread-Eagle  in  Duck-lane,  1653." 

KILLIGREW,  Thomas.  Comedies,  and  Tragedies.  Written  by 
Thomas  Killigrew,  Page  of  Honour  to  King  Charles  the  First,  and 
Groom  of  the  Bed-Chamber  to  King  Charles  the  Second.  London, 
Printed  for  Henry  Herringman,  at  the  Sign  of  tJie  AncJior  in  tJie  Lower 
Walk  of  tJie  New-Exchange.    1664.    Folio.    R. 

Portrait  by  W.  Faithome ;  title,  i  leaf ;  "  To  the  reader  "  and  contents,  i  leaf  ; 
then  A — Cccc  in  fours ;  [a] — [k]  in  fours.  An  extra  portrait  is  inserted,  in  which 
Killigrew  is  represented  wrapped  in  a  large  cloak  covered  with  small  portraits  of 
ladies.  Upon  the  table  where  his  elbow  rests  sits  a  monkey,  with  his  head  rest- 
ing on  his  hand. 

The   Prisoners  and  Claracilla.    Two  Tragse-Comedies.    As 

they  were  presented  at  the  Phoenix  in  Drury-Lane,  by  her  M''^  Ser- 


8oo  KILLIGREW. 

vants London  Printed  by  T.  Cotes,  for  Andrew  Crooke,  and  are 

to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  the  signe  of  the  Greene  Dragon  in  Pauls  Church- 
yard.   1 64 1.    Sin.  8vo. 

A,  6  leaves ;  A  (repeated)— F  in  twelves  ;  A  1—2,  blank.    First  edition. 

KILLIGREW,  Sir  William.  Three  Playes  Written  by  Sir 
William  Killigrew,  Vice-Chamberlain  to  Her  Majesty  the  Queen 
Consort.  1664.  Viz.  Selindra.  Pandora.  Ormasdes.  London,  Printed  by 
T.  Mabb;  for  John  Play  fere,  at  the  White  Lion,  in  the  Upper  Walk  of 
the  Netv  Exchange ;  and  Thomas  Horsnian,  at  the  three  Kings  in  the 
Strand,  1665.    8vo. 

A,  9  leaves,  title  on  A  2  ;  B— C,  8  leaves  each  ;  D,  9  leaves  ;  E— H  7  in  eights. 
"  Pandora,"  A,  4  leaves  ;  B— G  in  eights,  the  first  leaf  blank.  "  Ormasdes,"  A,  2 
leaves,  and  B— G  S  in  eights. 

The  Artless  Midnight  Thoughts  of  a  Gentleman  at  Court : 

who  For  many  Years  built  on  Sand,  which  every  Blast  of  cross  For- 
tune has  defaced  ;  but  now  he  has  laid  new  Foundations  on  the 
Rock  of  his  Salvation,  which  no  Storms  can  shake,  and  will  out-last 
the  Conflagration  of  the  World,  when  Time  shall  melt  into  Eternity. 
The  Second  Edition  with  Additions.  London,  Printed  for  Thomas 
Hoivkins,  in  George-Yard,  in  Lotnbard Street.    1684.    Sm.  8vo. 

With  some  pieces  of  verse.     From  Dr.  Bliss's  collection. 

Title,  1  leaf;  dedication  to  Charles  II.,  i  leaf;  dedication  to  James  II.,  i  leaf; 
to  the  reader,  I  leaf ;  "  A  good  Conscience  is  a  continual  Feast,"  I  leaf ;  then 
B — P  in  sixes  ;  Q,  8  leaves,  pp.  173-6  being  in  duplicate  ;  R — S  in  sixes  ;  T,  5 
leaves,  including  one  of  errata,  a  duplicate  leaf  (206-7)  being  inserted  between 
sig.  T  and  sig.  T  2  ;  then  (although  "  Finis  "  occurs  on  T  4)  V,  4  leaves,  with  a 
second  "  Finis";  [a  headline]  "  An  Addition  of  Midnight  Thoughts,"  8  leaves  marked 
X ;  [another  headline]  "A  second  Addition  of  Midnight-Thoughts,"  7  leaves  (includ- 
ing a  postscript)  marked  Y;  [another  headline]  "A  Third  Addition  of  Midnight 
Thoughts  at  Winchester,  Aug.  7.  1686,"  8  leaves  marked  Z  ;  [a  fourth  headline]  "An 
Addition  of  Mid-night  Thoughts,  by  the  first  Author ;"  Aa,  4  leaves  ;  Bb,  8  leaves, 
concluding  with  this  colophon :  "  London,  Prhited for  Tho.  Hawkins  in  George-yard 
in  Lombard-street,  1688.     Where  the  whole  Book  of  Mid-night  Thoughts  is  Sold." 

This  copy  of  Killigrew  is  unusually  complete,  and  differs  from  all  other  copies 
hitherto  examined.  The  copy  in  the  British  Museum  has  at  the  end,  "A  New 
Addition  of  Mid-night  Thoughts,"  with  sigs.  Cc,  8  leaves,  and  Dd,  2  leaves.  It 
lacks,  however,  the  duplicate  leaves  inserted  in  the  sheets  as  described  above.  The 
article  next  described  may  be  regarded  almost  as  a  distinct  work.  The  dedication 
to  James  II.  is  evidently  an  insertion  made  after  the  death  of  Charles. 

Mid-night  and  Daily  Thoughts.  In  Prose  and  Verse. 


London,  Printed  for  Thomas  Bennet  at  the  Half -Moon  in  St.  Paul's 
Churchyard.    1694.    8vo. 

Title  and  leaf  of  complimentary  verses  by  Richard  Newman  and  Henry  Birkett, 
2  leaves  ;  B — G  6  in  eights. 

Dedicated  by  the  author  to  his  friend,  Richard  Newman,  Esquire ;  after  the  dedi- 


KING.  8oi 

cation  is  Newman's  answer  to  Killigrew,  followed  by  Killigrew's  reply.  The  pre- 
sent copy  is  from  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Haslewood  and  Mr.  Corser,  and  contains  a 
long  memorandum  by  the  former,  relating  to  Killigrew,  but  it  contributes  nothing 
towards  a  solution  of  the  question  connected  with  the  different  editions  of  the  book. 
There  were,  in  all  probability,  at  least  two  in  1694,  differing  in  the  size  and  contents. 
The  one  here  noticed  is  an  8vo  of  pp.  96  ;  that  in  the  "  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica," 
No.  409,  had  another  imprint,  and  contained  pp.  144,  but  bore  the  same  date. 

KING,  Daniel.  The  Vale-Royall  of  England,  or,  The  County 
Palatine  of  Chester  illustrated.  Wherein  is  contained  a  Geographical 
and  Historical  Description  of  that  Famous  County,  with  all  its  Hun- 
dreds and  Seats  of  the  Nobility,  Gentry,  and  Freeholders  ;  its  Rivers, 
Towns,  Castles,  Buildings,  Ancient  and  Modern.  Adorned  with  Maps 
and  Prospects,  and  the  Coats  of  Arms  belonging  to  every  individual 
P"amily  of  the  whole  County.  Performed  by  William  Smith,  and 
William  Webb,  Gentlemen.  Published  by  Mr.  Daniel  King.  To  which 
is  annexed,  An  Exact  Chronology  of  all  its  Rulers  and  Governors 

Also,  An  Excellent  Discourse  of  the  Island  of  Man 

London,  Printed  by  John  Streater,  in  Well- Yard  in  Little  S.  Bartholo- 
mezvs,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  tlie  severall  Booksellers  of  London,  1656. 
Folio.    Engraved  title,  maps  and  plates. 

A  full  collation  is  given  by  Upcott. 

KING,  Henry,  Bishop  of  Chichester.  Poems,  Elegies,  Paradoxes, 
and  Sonnets.  London,  Printed  by  J.  G.  for  Rich:  Harriot  and  Hen  : 
Herringman,  and  sold  in  St.  Duns  tans  Churchyard  Fleet-street,  and  at 
tJie  New-Exchange.    1657.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

A,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  B — L  4  in  eights. 

At  the  end  of  the  volume  is  a  list  of  errata,  one  item  of  which  points  out  that  the 
poem  called  "The  Pink"  is  not  King's.  It  appears  from  the  address  of  the  pub- 
lishers to  the  author,  that  the  book  was  printed  without  his  knowledge  from  MSS 
supplied  to  them  by  some  of  his  friends. 

Poems,  Elegies,  Paradoxes,  And   Sonets.    London,  Printed 

for  Henry  Herringman,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  Anchor  in  tite  lower- 
walk  in  the  New  Exchange.    1664.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — C  4  in  eights. 

Notwithstanding  the  promise  of  the  title  this  contains  only  four  elegies,  in 
three  of  which,  viz.,  on  the  Earl  of  Essex,  on  Sir  Charles  Lucas,  and  on  Charles  I., 
the  author  expresses  such  decided  opinions  as  a  RoyaHst  that  it  was  probably 
thought  advisable  not  to  print  them  when  the  other  poems  appeared  in  1657.  It  is 
very  likely  that  in  some  copies  the  title  of  1657  has  been  replaced  by  that  of  1664 
and  these  elegies  added  at  the  end,  but  the  first  leaf  would  then  be  A  2.  The  two 
pieces  are  here  bound  together,  that  of  1664  being  placed  first.  From  Mr.  Utter- 
son's  collection. 

KING,  Humphrey.  An  Half-penny-worth  of  Wit,  in  a  Penny- 
worth  of  Paper.    Or,  The    Hermites   Tale.    The   third    Impression. 

4Z 


8o2  KING— KIP. 

London  Printed  for  TJmnias  Thorp,  by  the  Assignement  ofEdw:  Blount. 

1613.    4to. 

A— F  in  fours.     In  verse.  .     ,  .    ,< ,      . 

The  author  of  this  piece  was  the  friend  of  Thomas  Nash,  who,  m  his  Lenten 
Stuffe"  1599,  speaks  of  the  tract  as  then  about  to  appear;  but  this  edition  of  1 613 
is  the 'earliest  and  only  impression  now  known.  The  poem  is  a  dialogue  between  a 
hennit  and  a  youth  who  visits  his  cell,  and  contains  many  allusions  of  interest,  such 
as  to  Robin  Hood,  Tarlton,  &c.  Nash,  in  his  "  Lenten  Stuffe,"  1 599,  styles  the  author 
"A7«c  of  the  tobacconists,"  as  if  he  had  been  a  great  smoker. 

Not  the  least  curious  part  of  the  book  is  the  oddly  worded  dedication  to  Lady 
Sussex.  From  the  collections  of  Caldecott  and  Mr.  George  Daniel  The  only 
other  known  is  that  which  was  successively  in  the  Farmer,  Roxburghe,  Heber,  and 
Corser  coUcctions,  and  is  now  in  the  British  Museum. 

KING,  JOSIAH.  The  Examination  and  Tryal  of  Old  Father  Christ- 
mas ;  Together  with  his  Clearing  by  the  Jury,  At  the  Assizes  held  at 
the  Town  of  Difference,  in  the  County  of  Discontent.  Written  accord- 
ing to  Legal  Proceeding.  London,  Printed  for  H.  Brome,  T.  Basset, 
and  J.  Wright.    1678.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — D  in  eights,  including  a  frontispiece. 

KING,  VViLLL\M.  Poems  of  Mr.  Cowley  and  others.  Composed 
into  Songs  and  Ayres  with  a  Thorough  Basse  to  the  Theorbo,  Harp- 
secon,  or  Base-violl ;  By  William  King  Organist  of  New-CoUedge  In 
the  University  of  Oxon  :  Oxford,  Imprinted  By  Willam  Hall,  For  the 
Author  1668.    Folio. 

A — P  in  twos. 

The  author,  in  an  address  "  To  all  Lovers  of  Musick,"  observes :  "  I  intended 
many  more  Songs,  which  might  have  made  this  Book  farr  larger;  But  considering 
that  they  were  not  so  fit  company  for  the  Great  Cowley,  I  have  given  them  leave  to 
find  out  more  suitable  Acquaintance." 

KINGDOMES  MONSTER.  The  Kingdomes  Monster  vncloaked 
from  Heaven :  The  Popish  Conspirators,  Malignant  Plotters,  and 
cruell  Irish,  in  one  Body  to  destroy  Kingdome,  Religion,  and  Lawes  : 
But  under  colour  to  defend  them,  especially  the  Irish,  who  having 
destroyed  the  Protestants  there,  flye  hither  to  defend  the  Protestant 
Religion  here.    Printed  in  the  Year,  1643.    A  Broadside. 

In  verse.    Printed  in  three  columns,  with  a  large  emblematical  wood-engraving. 

KING-KILLERS.  The  History  of  King-Killers  ;  Or,  The  Fana- 
tick  Martyrology.  Containing  the  Lives  of  Three  Hundred  Sixty 
Five  Hellish  Saints  of  that  Crew,  Infamous  for  Treason,  Rebellion, 
Perjury,  Rapine,  Murder,  &c.  being  one  for  every  Day  in  the  Year, 
...  By  One,  who  heartily  wishes  the  Conversion  of  the  former,  and 
the  Increase  and  Prosperity  of  the  latter.    London :  1720.    2  vols.    8vo. 

KIP,  J.  Nouveau  Theatre  de  la  Grande  Bretagne :  ou  Description 
exacte  des  Palais  du  Roy,  Et  des  Maisons  les  plus  considerables  des 


KIRCH  EN    OR  D  NUNC.  803 

Seigneurs  &  des  Gentilshommes  de  la  Grande  Bretagne.  Le  tout 
dessine  sur  les  lieux,  &  grave  sur  quatre-vingt  Planches  ou  Ton  voit 
aussi  les  Armes  des  Seigneurs  &  des  Gentilshommes.  Tome  premier. 
A  Londres,  Chez  David  Mortier  Libraire.  1715.  [Et  Tome  premier. 
Seconde  partie.    lb.  i/i/-] 

Nouveau  Theatre  de  la  Grande  Bretagne :  ou  Description  exacte 
des  Villes,  Eglises,  Cath^drales,  Hopitaux,  Ports  de  Mer,  &c.  de  la 
Grande  Bretagne.  Le  tout  dessine  sur  les  lieux,  &  grave  par  les  plus 
habiles  Graveurs.  Auquel  on  a  ajoute  une  Table  Genealogique  &  Chro- 
nologique  de  la  Ligne  Royale  d'Angleterre  depuis  Guillaume  le  Con- 
querant  jusqu'a  I'etablissement  de  la  Succession  dans  la  Maison 
d'Hanover  par  Acte  du  Parlement  en  1701.  Avec  les  Grands  Sceaux 
de  tous  les  Rois  depuis  Guillaume  le  Conquerant  jusqu'a  la  Reine 
Anne.  Tome  Second.  A  Londres,  Chez  David  Mortier,  Libraire. 
1715. 

Nouveau  Theatre  de  la  Grande  Bretagne Troisi^me  et 

Dernier  Volume.    lb.  1717. 

Supplement  du  Nouveau  Theatre  de  la  Grande  Bretagne  :  ou  De- 
scription exacte  Des  Maisons  les  plus  considerables  des  Seigneurs 
&  des  Gentilshommes  de  la  Grande  Bretagne.    Avec  les  Plans  de 

plusieurs  Villes,  Abbayes,  &  Eglises  Cathedrales  d'Ecosse 

A  Loiidres,  Cliez  J.  Groenewegen  &  N.  Prevost  Libraires  dans  le 
Strand.    1728. 

Bound  in  5  vols.    Folio.    Li  tJie  original  gilt  calf. 

Vol.  i. :— Tide,  preface,  description  of  the  plates,  1-80,  and  "  Table  Alphabdtique," 
together,  six  leaves.  Plates,  2-80,  plate  i  being  the  engraving  of  the  Royal  Arms 
on  the  title. 

Though  the  title  is  dated  17 15,  it  is  stated  in  the  preface  (which  is  signed  Joseph 
Smith)  that  it  contains  "  les  Augmentations  qui  y  sont  faites  Jusqu'ii  present,  1724." 

Vol.  i..  Part  2  :— Table  and  description  of  the  plates,  4  leaves.  Seventy  plates, 
which  agree  with  the  printed  list,  but  the  numbers  are  not  quite  regularly  marked. 
Besides  the  plates  in  the  list  the  volume  has  at  the  end  :— 1.  Elevation  of  Ashurst 
House.  2.  Garden  Front  of  Wentworth  House,  Yorkshire.  3.  Plan  of  the  Garden, 
Park,  &c.,  of  Wentworth  House  (on  3  sheets).  4.  Malton  in  the  Co.  of  York. 
5.  E.  View  of  Harrowdon  Magna.  6.  Plan  of  Harrowdon  Lordship.  7.  Tankersley 
Park.     8.  Hooton  Roberts.     9.  Carhouse  in  Yorkshire. 

Vol.  ii.  :— Title,  i  leaf ;  "  A  description  of  the  Plates  added  to  this  volume  of 
Ecclesiastical  Buildings  in  England,"  5  leaves  ;  "  An  Historical  Account  of  all  the 
Cathedrals,"  &c.,  12  leaves;  "  Ecclesiarum  Anglia:  et  Vallia;  Prospectus,"  an  en- 
graved title  dated  1719,  followed  by  66  plates,  some  of  them  occupying  two  or  more 
sheets.     A  few  additional  views  are  inserted. 

Vol  iii. :— Title  and  description  of  the  plates,  8  leaves ;  plates  1-85  according  to 
the  list,  some  on  two  or  more  sheets,  and  a  few  extra  ones  added. 

Supplement :— Title  and  description  of  the  plates,  5  leaves  ;  plates  numbered 
1-84,  and  eight  additional  views  inserted  from  a  later  edition. 

KIRCHEN  ORDNUNG,  In  meiner  gnedigen  herm  der  Marg- 
grauen  zu  Brandenburg  Vnd  eins  Erbern  Rats  der  Stat  Nurmberg 


804  KIRKE-KLAGRED. 

Oberkcyt  vnd  gepieten,  VVie  man  sich  bayde  mit  der  Leer  vnd  Cere- 
monien  halten  solle.  M.D.XXXIII.  Catechismus  oder  Kinder  pre- 
dig.  [Colophon.]  Getruckt  {zu  Basel]  durch  Johan  Petreiiim,  Anno 
M.D.XXXIII.    Folio. 

The  Kirchen  Ordnung  contains  A— G  and  K  in  sixes,  H,  I,  L,  four  leaves  each, 
the  last  blank.     The  Catechismus,  a— m  in  sixes,  n,  8  leaves. 

"This  '  Ordnung,'  according  to  Goode  ('Doctrine  of  Baptism.'  Lond.  1849),  is 
founded  upon  that  of  Luther,  in  so  far  at  least  as  regards  baptism.  It  is  also  upon  this 
Form  and  that  of  Hermann,  Archbishop  of  Cologne  ('  Simplex  et  Pia  Deliberatio'), 
that  the  office  of  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer  is  based.  Dr.  Pusey,  however  ('  Tract 
on  Baptism'),  although  he  cites  Hermann's  work,  does  not  notice  this;  and  it  is 
presumed  therefore  that  he  was  not  then  acquainted  with  it.  It  is  described  in  the 
'  Bibliotheca  Agendorum'  of  Konig,  Halle,  1726,  of  which  it  fomis  the  first  article; 
the  author  there  states  that  he  knew  of  but  one  copy,  and  that  had  not  the  Catechism. 
Seckcndorf,  lib.  iii.,  p.  71,  also  describes  it,  but  from  the  reprint  of  1591."— AV/t'  by 
Mr.  C.  J.  Stewart. 

KIRKE,  John.  The  Seven  Champions  of  Christendome.  Acted 
at  the  Cocke-pit,  and  at  the  Red-Bull  in  St.  Johns  Streete,  with  a 
generali  liking.  And  never  Printed  till  this  Yeare  1638.  Written  by 
J.  K.  London :  Printed  by  J.  Okes,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  James  Becket 
at  his  Shop  in  the  Inner  Temple  Gate.    1638.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours,  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

Dedicated  "  To  his  much  respected  and  worthy  Friend  Master  John  Waite."  It 
was  the  author's  only  production. 

KIRKMAN,  Francis.  The  Unlucky  Citizen:  Experimentally 
Described  in  the  various  misfortunes  of  an  Unlucky  Londoner.  Calcu- 
lated for  the  Meridian  of  this  City,  but  may  serve  by  way  of  Advice 
to  all  the  Cominalty  of  England,  but  more  perticularly  to  Parents  and 
Children  Masters  and  Servants  Husbands  and  Wives.  Intermixed 
with  severall  Choice  Novels.  Stored  with  variety  of  Examples  and 
advice  President  and  Precept.    Illustrated  with  Pictures  fitted  to  the 

severall  Stories London,  Printed  by  Anne  Johnson,  for  Era. 

Kirkman  and  are  to  be  Sold  at  his  Shop  in  Fan-Church  street  over 
against  tJie  Sign  of  the  Robin  Hood  near  Aldgate  and  by  most  other 
Booksellers  1673.    Sm.  Svo.    R. 

A— V  4  in  eights,  besides  the  engraved  and  printed  titles,  "  The  mind  of  the 
Frontispeice"  in  verse,  the  portrait,  and  eight  plates. 

From  the  collections  of  Geo.  Steevens  and  Mr.  Daniel. 

KIT-CAT  CLUB.  The  Kit-Cat  Club  done  from  the  Original 
Paintings  of  S'  Godfrey  Kneller  by  Mr.  Faber.  1735.  {London?^  J. 
Tonson  and  T.  Faber.    Folio.    Large  paper.    4&  portraits.    R. 

KLAGRED  eins  jungen  Munchs  uber  sein  Kutten.  [0.  0.  u.  J.] 
4to.     BR.  M. 


KNA  VE— KNIGHT.  805 

Eight  leaves. 

A  conversation  in  verse  between  a  young  monk  and  the  different  members  of 
his  monastery  on  the  question  of  his  leaving  the  monastic  Ufe.  There  is  a  large 
woodcut  on  the  title  which  is  repeated  on  the  last  leaf. 

KNAVE  OF  CLUBS.  The  Knave  of  Clubs.  Otherwise  called, 
A  Game  at  Cards,  and  Clvbs  Trump.  Doe  you  not  see  the  Knave 
turn'd  up  .'  Rub  and  lose  Cards.  Play  faire  and  above  board.  London, 
Shuffled,  cut,  and  dealt  faire,  by  Stysichorus,  Anno  Dom.    1643.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    With  a  woodcut  on  the  title. 

This  is  an  attack  on  the  cavaliers  and  monopolists.  The  cavalier  is  represented 
as  the  Knave  of  Clubs,  an  explanation  of  which  is  given  on  the  last  page. 

KNEVETT,  Ralph.  Rhodon  and  Iris.  A  Pastorall,  as  it  was 
presented  at  the  Florists  Feast  in  Norwich,  May  3.  163 1.  Vrbis  &  orbis 
gloria  Flora.  London  :  Printed  for  Michael  Sparke,  at  the  blew  Bible 
in  Greene-Arbour.    163 1.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  a,  4  leaves  ;  B — I  3  in  fours. 

With  two  dedications,  the  first  "To  Mr.  Nicholas  Bacon,  of  Gillingham,  Es- 
quire ;"  the  other  "  To  his  much  respected  friends,  the  Society  of  Florists." 

KNEWSTUB,  John.  A  Confutation  of  monstrous  and  horrible 
heresies,  taught  by  H.[enry]  N.[icolas]  and  embraced  of  a  number,  who 
call  themselues  the  Familie  of  Loue.  by  I.  Knewstub.  [Quotation 
from  Ephes.  iv.  14,15.]  Scene  and  allowed  ....  Imprinted  in  London 
at  the  three  Cranes  in  the  Vinetree,  by  T/iotnas  Dawson,  for  Richard 
Sergier.    1579.    4to.    Black  letter. 

*,  8  leaves  ;  **,  8  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves ;  B — L  in  eights  ;  M— N  in  fours  ;  O, 
2  leaves  ;  P — S  4  in  eights. 

Dedicated  by  Knewstub  to  Ambrose,  Earl  of  Warwick.  Prefixed  is  a  long 
epistle  by  the  author  to  the  reader.  Knewstub's  sermon  is  added  at  the  end  (P — 
S  4),  but  is  not  mentioned  on  the  title-page,  as  it  appears  to  have  been  in  the  copy 
described  by  Herbert ;  it  opens  with  a  mere  headline. 

From  the  collections  of  Baynton,  Heber,  Dr.  Nott,  and  Mr.  Maskell. 

KNIGHT,  Francis.  A  Relation  of  Seaven  Yeares  Slaverie 
vnder  the  Turkes  of  Argeire,  suffered  by  an  English  Captive  Merchant. 
Wherein  is  also  conteined  all  memorable  Passages,  Fights,  and  Acci- 
dents, which  happined  in  that  Citie,  and  at  Sea  with  their  Shippes  and 
Gallies  during  that  time.  Together  with  a  Description  of  the  suffer- 
ings of  the  miserable  Captives  under  that  mercilesse  Tyrannic. 
Whereunto  is  added  a  Second  Booke  conteining  a  Discription  of 
Argeire,  with  its  Originall,  manner  of  Government,  Increase,  and  pre- 
sent flourishing  Estate.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  by  T.  Cotes  for  Michael 
Sparke  Junior  .  .  .   1640.    4to. 

A — H  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.     With  a  woodcut  plan  of  Algiers  on  sig.  A  4. 
Dedicated  to  Sir  Paul  Pinder.     From  Sir  F.  Freeling's  collection. 


8o6  KNIGHT. 

KNIGHT,  Jon>f.  Heavens  Cry  Against  Murder.  Or,  A  true 
Relation  Of  the  Bloudy  &  unparallel'd  Murder  of  John  Knight,  Ap- 
prentice to  Mr.  Arthur  Worth  a  Silk-man  at  the  Rose  in  Milk-street 
London,  on  Thursday-morning,  Aug.  6.  1657.  by  one  Nath  :  Butler  an 
Apprentice  to  Mr.  Munday  in  Carter-lane,  and  turned  over  to  Jo : 
Abbat  a  Drawer  of  Cloath  in  the  Old-change,  and  after  turned  over 
to  one  Mr.  Goodday  of  the  same  Trade  in  the  aforesaid  Lane.  London: 
Printed  for  Henry  Brome,  at  the  Hand  in  St.  Pauls  Church-yard. 

1657.    4to. 

A— D  in  fours,  first  and  last  leaves  btank. 

KNIGHT,  R.  P.  An  Account  of  the  Remains  of  the  Worship  of 
Priapus,  lately  existing  at  Isernia  in  the  Kingdom  of  Naples  .... 
London.    1786.    4to.    Plates. 

Pp.  19s  and  eighteen  plates. 

KNIGHT,  Samuel.  The  Life  of  Dr.  John  Colet,  Dean  of  St. 
Paul's  in  the  Reigns  of  K.  Henry  VII.  and  Henry  VIII.  and  Founder 
of  S.  Paul's  School :  With  an  Appendix.  London.  1724.  8vo.  Large 
paper.    Plates.    R. 

Pp.  494,  besides  preliminaries,  pp.  10,  and  table,  &c.,  pp.  18.  With  a  portrait 
by  Vertue. 

The  Life  of  Erasmus,  More  particularly  that   part  of  it, 

which  he  spent  in  England ;  Wherein  an  Account  is  given  of  his 
Learned  Friends,  and  the  State  of  Religion  and  Learning  in  both  our 
Universities.  With  an  Appendix.  Cambridge.  ITZ^.  8vo.  Large 
paper.    Plates.    R. 

Pp.  386 -I- xxxii.  + (Appendix)  cxliv.,  besides  title,  pp.  8,  and  contents  of  appendix, 
&c,,  pp.  8.     With  a  portrait  by  Vertue  after  Holbein. 

This  copy  has  the  four  additional  plates  mentioned  by  Lowndes  ;  but  the  one 
which  he  describes  as  being  at  p.  310  is  named  in  the  list  of  engravings. 

KNIGHT  OF  THE  SEA.  The  Heroicall  Adventvres  of  the 
Knight  of  the  Sea.  Comprised  in  the  most  famous  and  renowned 
Historie  of  the  Illustrious  &  Excellently  accomplished  Prince  Oceander, 
Grand-sonne  to  the  mightie  and  Magnanimous  Claranax,  Emperour  of 
Constantinople,  and  the  Empresse  Basilia  ;  and  sonnevnto  the  incom- 
parable Olbiocles  Prince  of  Grecia,  by  the  beautious  Princesse  Almi- 
diana,  daughter  vnto  the  puissant  King  Rubaldo  of  Hungaria.  Wherin 
is  described  his  Parents  misfortunes,  and  captiuities,  his  ovvne  losse, 
strange  preseruing,  education,  and  fostering  (by  Kanyra  Q.  of  Car- 
thage) his  Knighthood,  admirable  exploytes,  and  vnmatchable  at- 
chieuementes,  graced  with  the  most  glorious  conquestes  ouer  Knights, 
Gyants,  Monsters,  Enchauntments,  Realmes,  and  Dominions;  with  his 


KNOX.  807 

fortunate  comming  to  the  knowledge  of  his  Parents  in  the  greatest 
extreamitie  of  their  captiuitie  ;  his  combating,  affecting,  and  pursuites 
in  his  loue  tovvardes  the  rarely  embellished  Princesse  and  Lady-knight 
Phianora,  daughter  vnto  the  inuincible  Argamont  King  of  England, 
by  the  gracious  Princesse  Clarecinda.  At  London  \  Printed  for 
William  Leake,  1600.    4to.    Black  letter.    R,  M. 

A — H  h  in  fours. 

Interspersed  with  verses,  and  on  the  last  page  occurs  :  "  R.  W.  To  the  authour 
of  this  Historie,"  in  verse.  It  is  a  mock-romance,  written  in  ridicule  of  the  books  of 
knight-errantry ;  and,  as  it  preceded  in  date  by  five  years  the  publication  of  the 
first  edition  of  "  Don  Quixote,"  it  is  a  volume  of  more  than  ordinary  interest. 

From  the  Halliwell  and  Tite  collections.    A  copy  is  at  Bridgewater  House. 

KNOX,  John.  A  faythfuU  admonition  made  by  lohn  Knox, 
vnto  the  professours  of  Gods  truthe  in  England,  wherby  thou  mayest 
learne  howe  God  wyll  haue  his  Churche  exercised  with  troubles,  and 

how  he  defendeth  it  in  the  same [Colophon.]    Imprynted 

at  Kalykow  the  20.  daye  of  Jidij.  1554.  Cum  gratia  \3  pritdlegio  ad 
Imprimendiim  solum.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — I  3  in  eights. 

The  book  was  really  printed  at  Geneva,  probably  by  John  Crispin.  This  copy 
was  purchased  by  Heber  at  the  White-Knights  sale. 

A  godly  letter  sent  too  the  fayethfull  in  London/  Newcastell/ 


Barwyke/  and  to  all  other  within  the  realme  of  Englande/  that  loue 
the  coiiiinge  of  oure  Lorde  Jesus  by  Jhon  Knox.  [Quotation  from 
Matt  X.]  Imprinted  in  Rome,  before  the  Castel  of  s.  Aungelj  at  the 
signe  of  sainct  Peter.  In  the  moneth  of  jfulyl  in  the  year e  of  our  Lord. 
1554.  A  confession  &  declarati5  of  praiers  added  thervnto/ by  Jhon 
Knox/  minister  of  christes  most  sacred  Euangely/  vpon  the  death  of 
that  moste  verteous  and  moste  famous  king  Edward  the  VI.  kynge 
of  Englande/  Fraunce  and  Irelande/  in  whiche  confession/  the  sayde 
Jhon  doth  accuse  no  lesse  hys  owne  offences/  then  the  offences  of 
others/  to  be  the  cause  of  the  awaye  takinge/  of  that  moste  godly 
prince/  nowe  raininge  with  Christ  whyle  we  abyde  plagues  for  our 
vnthanfulnesse.  Imprinted,  &c.  [as  before].  1554.  Bound  in  2  vols. 
Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

"  A  godly  letter,"  A — D  4  in  eights.  "  A  Confession,"  A— C  3  in  eights,  with 
Hugh  Singleton's  device  on  the  last  page  but  one  of  the  first  piece,  and  on  the  last 
page  of  the  second. 

The  First  Blast  of  the  Trvmpet  against  the  monstrvovs 


regiment  of  women.  Veritas  temporis  filia.  [Geneva,  John  Crispin.'] 
M.D.LVIIL    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — G  in  eights. 

In  the  copy  of  this  book  in  George  the  Third's  library  in  the  British  Museum  is 
the  following  curious  note  in  a  contemporary  hand  :  "  This  booke  being  printed  by  a 


8o8  KNOX— KOCH. 

Papist  ymediately  after  Queene  Elizabeth  came  to  the  Crowne  was  answered  by  one 
that  entitled  his  booke  An  harborowe  for  faithfull  &  true  subiectes  against  the  late 
blowne  blast  concerning  the  government  of  women  &  printed  yt  at  Strasborow  in 
Germany  the  26  of  April  1559.  in  4to." 

KNOX,  John.  A  Sermon  preached  bylohn  Knox  Minister  of  Christ 
lesus  in  the  Pubh'que  audience  of  the  Church  of  Edenbrough,  within 
the  Realme  of  Scotland,  vpon  Sonday,  the.  19.  of  August.  1565.  For 
the  which  the  said  lohn  Knoxe  was  inhibite  preaching  for  a  season. 
[Quotation  from  i  Timothy  iv.]  To  this  is  adioyned  an  exhortation 
vnto  all  the  faythfull  within  the  sayde  Realme,  for  the  reliefe  of  suche 
as  faythfully  trauayle  in  the  preaching  of  Gods  worde.  Written  by 
the  same  lohn  Knoxe,  at  the  commaundement  of  the  ministerie  afore- 
sayd.    Imprinted  Anno.  1^66.    Sm.  8vo.    R. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  A  (repeated)— H  4  in  eights. 

This  volume  was  probably  printed  at  Edinburgh. 

The  Historic  of  the  Chvrch  of  Scotland.    [London,  T.  Vau- 

trollier,  1584.]    8vo. 

B — Mm  in  eights. 

First  edition.  This  is  a  fine  clean  copy  in  the  old  parchment  cover,  from  Dr. 
Farmer's  library,  but,  in  common  with  all  known  copies,  it  begins  on  p.  17  and  ends 
abruptly  on  p.  560.    See  "  Bibl.  Grenv.,"  iii.,  275. 

The  Historic  of  the  Reformation  of  the  Church  of  Scotland  ; 

Containing  five  Books :  Together  with  some  Treatises  conducing  to 

the  History.    Published  by  Authority London,  Printed  by  John 

Raworth 1644.    Folio.    Large  paper.    BL.  M. 

•,  4  leaves ;  •*,  4 leaves ;  a^g  in  fours ;  h,  6  leaves  ;  B — Cc  in  fours ;  Dd,  6  leaves ; 
Ee — Ddd  in  fours  ;  Eee  2  (no  Eee  i) — Xxx  in  fours;  Yyy,  5  leaves  ;  Zzz — Cccc  3  in 
fours. 

The  treatises  appended  to  this  edition  are  Knox's  "  Appellation,"  his  two 
"Admonitions,"  his  "Letter  to  the  Queen-Regent,"  and  his  Sermon,  preached  in 
1565.     The  editor  was  Dr.  Buchanan,  who  has  prefixed  a  short  life  of  the  author. 

KNOX,  Robert.  An  Historical  Relation  Of  the  Island  Ceylon, 
in  the  East-Indies :  Together  With  an  Account  of  the  Detaining  in 
Captivity  the  Author  and  divers  other  Englishmen  now  Living  there, 
and  of  the  Author's  Miraculous  Escape.  Illustrated  with  Figures  and 
a  Map  of  the  Island.  By  Robert  Knox,  a  Captive  there  near  Twenty 
Years.    London:  Printed  by  Richard  Chisrvell.    ....    1681.     Folio. 

Title,  portrait, and  preliminaries,  I3leaves;  B — Aa  in  fours;  Bb  and  Cc  in  twos, 
with  map  of  Ceylon,  and  plates  separate  from  the  letterpress  at  pp.  10,  14,  22,  26, 
28,  32,  39,  60,  74,  87,  89,  90,  104,  116.    The  last  leaf  is  a  list  of  advertisements. 

KOCH  und  Keller  meisterey.  Von  alien  Speisen  und  Getrancken, 
vil  guter  heymlicher  kiinste,  Auch  wie  mafi  Latwergen,  Salsen,  Con- 
feet,  Conserven,  un  Einbeytzung  machen  soil, ....  jetzund  von  newem 


KORAN— KORB.  809 

wider  ersehen,  und  mit  liistigen  Figuren  durchausz  geziret.  1566. 
[Colophon.]  Getruckt  zu  Franckfort  am  Meyn  Bei  Christian  Egenolffs 
Erben.    Sm.  8vo.    Woodcuts. 

A — O  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

A  curious  little  volume  of  which  no  notice  appears  in  bibliographical  works. 

KORAN.    The  Koran,  in  Arabic,  complete. 

Written  in  very  minute  characters,  on  a  roll  of  thin  bombycine  paper,  more  than 
twelve  feet  long,  and  a  little  over  three  inches  in  width.  The  text,  which  is  less 
than  two  inches  in  width,  is  so  disposed,  by  ingenious  grouping,  as  to  form  a  series 
of  decorations,  floral  figures,  and  monumental  inscriptions,  relieved  with  gold  lines 
and  the  occasional  use  of  red  ink. 

There  is  no  date  given,  nor  any  inscription,  but  from  the  handwriting,  the  MS. 
seems  to  have  been  executed  in  the  Turkish  dominions,  and  does  not  appear  to  be 
more  than  a  century  old,  if  so  much. 

The  inscription,  formed  by  groups  of  text  as  above  mentioned,  is  extracted  from 
the  Koran  itself,  and  is  the  256th  verse  of  the  Second  Sura.  It  runs  thus,  in 
translation : — 

"  God — there  is  no  God  except  Him,  the  Living,  the  Eternal ;  no  Slumber,  no 
Sleep  seizeth  Him  ;  His,  whatever  is  in  the  Heavens,  and  whatever  is  on  the  earth. 
Who  is  he  that  prayeth  to  Him  unless  by  His  permission  ?  He  knoweth  what  is  at 
hand  and  what  shall  follow  [what  is  between  their  hands  and  what  shall  succeed 
them],  and  they  shall  not  understand  aught  of  His  knowledge  but  what  He  alloweth. 
His  throne  embraceth  the  heavens  and  the  earth  and  the  burden  thereof  doth  not 
trouble  Him.     For  He  is  the  Sublime,  the  Magnificent !" 

Alcorani  Textus  Universus  Ex  correctioribus  Arabum  exem- 

plaribus  summa  fide,  atque  pulcherrimis  characteribus  descriptus. 
Eademque  fide,  ac  pari  diligentia  ex  Arabico  idiomate  in  Latinum 
translatus ;  Appositis  unicuique  capiti  notis,  atque  refutatione :  His 

omnibus  praemissus  est  Prodromus Auctore  Ludovico  Mar- 

raccio  ....  Patavii.  1698.  Ex  TypograpJiia  Seminarii.  2  vols,  in 
I.   Folio. 

Alcoran  de  Mahomet,  translate  d'Arabe  en  Francois  par  le 

Sieur  du  Ryer.    Siiivant  la  copie  imprimee  a  Paris.    1649.    Sm.  8vo. 

The  Koran,  commonly  called  the  Alcoran  of  Mohammed. 

Translated  into  English  from  the  Original  Arabic  ;  with  Explanatory 
Notes  ....  by  George  Sale.    Loncioit.    1734.    4to.    R. 

KORB,  J.  G.    Diarium  Itineris  in  Moscoviam  .  .  .  Ignatii  Chris- 

tophori  nobilis  Domini  de  Guarient,  &  Rail, ab  .  .  .  .  Impera- 

tore  Leopoldo  I.  ad  .  ...  Serenissimum,  ac  Potentissimum  Tzarum,  & 
Magnum  Moscoviae  Ducem  Petrum  Alexiowicium  Anno  MDCXCVIII. 
Ablegati  Extraordinarii  ....  Accessit  Reditus  Suae  Tzareae  Majes- 
tatis  a  Provinciis  Europaeis  ad  proprios  limites  periculosae  Rebellionis 
Streliziorum,  &  latae  in  eosdem  sententiae  cum  subsecuta  sanguinea 
Executione,  necnon  praecipuarum  Moscoviae  rerum  compendiosa,  & 

5  A' 


8 10  KORT—KYFFIN. 

accurata  dcscriptio  &c.     Vknnce  Austria.  [1700].     Folio.     Nineteen 
plates.    R. 

Title,  dedication,  and  privilege,  3  leaves  ;  A— Gg  in  fours  ;  Hh,  6  leaves. 

KORT  en  Bondigh  Verhael  Van't  geene  in  den  Oorlogh,  Tusschen 
den  Koning  van  Engelant,  &c.  de  Hoc  :  Mo  :  Heeren  Statcn  der  Vrye 
Vereeighde  Ncderlanden,  en  den  Bisschop  van  Minister  is  voorgefallen. 
Beginnende  in  den  Jare  1664.  en  eyndigende  met  het  fluyten  van  de 

Vrede  tot  Breda,  in't  Jaer  1667 f  Amsterdam,  voor  Jacob 

Benjamin.  .  .  .    1667.    4to.    Plates. 

A— li  in  fours.    A  folding  map  at  p.  232. 

KORT  en  Bondigh  Verhael  ....  Amsterdam  voor  Marcus  Wil- 
lonsa  Door  nick.    1667.    4to. 

In  these  editions  the  text  appears  to  be  identical,  but  the  types  vary  and  the 
plates  have  been  re-engraved. 

KUSEL,  Melciiior.    Icones  Biblicae  Veteris  et  Novi  Testament!. 

IVoprio  acre  aeri  incisae,  ct  venales  expositae  a  Melchiore 

Kysel,  Augustano [Colophon.]    Finis.  MDCLXXIX.    S  parts, 

bound  in  i  vol.    4to.    248  plates.    BR.  M. 

KUPEZKY,  Joannes.  Imagines  et  Picturae  quotquot  earum 
haberi  potuerunt,  antea  ad  quinque  Dodecades  arte  quam  vocant  nigra 
aeri  incisae  a  Bernhardo  Vogelio,  jam  vero  similiter  continuatae  opera 
et  sumptibus  Valent.  Dan.  Preisleri.    Norib.    1745.    Folio.    Engraved 

title  and  seventy-tivo  portraits. 

KYD,  Thomas.  The  Spanish  Tragedy  :  Or,  Hieronimo  is  mad 
againe.  Containing  the  lamentable  end  of  Don  Horatio,  and  Belim- 
pcria ;  With  the  pittifull  Death  of  Hieronimo.  Newly  Corrected, 
Amended,  and  Enlarged  with  new  Additions,  as  it  hath  of  late  been 
diuers  times  Acted.  London,  Printed  by  Augustine  Mathewes,  and  are 
to  bee  sold  by  Thomas  Langlcy,  at  his  Shop  oner  against  the  Sarazens 
Head  without  New-gate.    1623.    4to.    Large  woodcut  on  title. 

A — L  in  fours. 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  Lacy  and  Mr.  Kershaw,  and  formerly  in  a  volume 
of  plays  from  the  library  of  King  Charles  II. 

KYFFIN,  Maurice.  The  Blessednes  of  Brytaine,  or  A  Cele- 
bration of  the  Oueenes  Holyday.  Wherein  is  briefly  discoursed  the 
most  happy  Regiment  of  her  Highnes.  Newly  set  foorth  with  a  New 
Addition  Containing  the  late  Accidents  and  Occurrents  of  this  yeere 
88.  being  the  Thirtieth  of  hir  Maiesties  Raigne.  By  M.  Kyffin  .... 
Published  with  Authoritie.  London  Printed  by  John  Wolfe.  1588. 
4to.    R.  m. 

A— D  in  fours.     In  stanzas  of  si.x  lines. 

Dedicated  to  the  Earl  of  Essex  and  Ewe  by  the  author,  who  gratefully  refers 


KYRKUAM—L.,  L.  8ii 

to  the  kindnesses  received  by  his  deceased  father  at  the  hands  of  the  earl's  grand- 
father and  father,  for  which  he  and  his  family  will  ever  be  bound  to  Lord  Essex. 

The  only  other  copy  known  is  in  the  British  Museum.  Of  the  former  edition, 
consisting  of  eight  leaves,  and  containing  only  the  first  part,  the  copy  at  Lambeth 
Palace  is  considered  unique.     From  the  library  of  Mr.  Corser. 

Collier  ("  Bibl.  Cat.,"  ii.,  207)  doubts  Kyffin's  concern  in  the  tract  on  Mary 
Queen  of  Scots,  generally  attributed  to  him. 

KYRKHAM,  William. 

loyfull  Newes  for  true  Subiectes,  to  God  and  the  Crowne : 
The  Rebelles  are  cooled,  their  Bragges  be  put  downe. 

[At  the  end.]  Finis.  W.  Kyrkh.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  London 
in  Fleetstreete,  by  Wyllyam  How:  for Ricliard  Jolines.  [i  570.]  A  Broad- 
side.   Black  letter. 

Nineteen  six-line  stanzas  on  a  sheet,  printed  in  two  columns.  The  only  copy 
known.    Reprinted  in  "  Ancient  Ballads,"  S:c.,  1867. 


L.,  G.  The  Amorous  Gallant's  Tongue  tipt  with  Golden  Ex- 
pressions ;  Or,  The  Art  of  Courtship  refin'd.  Being  the  best  and 
Newest  Academy :  containing  Choice  and  Select  Sentences  ...  A 
variety  of  Choice  Letters  .  .  .  The  Interpretation  of  all  sorts  of 
Dreams.  .  .  .  Together  with  a  Courting  Academy,  or  the  Pedlers 
French  Dictionary.  .  .  .  The  Fifth  Edition.  London,  Printed  for 
Robert  Gifford  .  .  .  17 10.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — E  in  twelves,  including  a  woodcut  frontispiece. 

L.,  H.  Gratiae  Ludentes.  lests  from  the  Vniversitie.  By  H.  L. 
0x071.  [Quotation  from  Martial.]  Printed  at  London  by  Tlio.  Cotes, 
for  Humphrey  Mosley.    1628.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — K  in  twelves  ;  first,  second,  and  last  leaves  blank. 

The  date  has  been  altered  with  a  pen,  both  in  this  copy  and  in  that  in  the 
British  Museum,  to  1638,  the  latter  being  probably  the  true  time  of  publication. 
From  the  library  of  Mr.  George  Daniel,  who  considered  it  to  be  unique.  Another 
however,  was  in  Heber's  hbrary,  part  ix.,  and  a  third  is  among  the  King's  books 
in  the  British  Museum. 

L.,  L.  Evagoras.  A  Romance.  By  L.  L.  Gent.  London,  Printed 
for  Rob.  Clavel  at  the  Peacock  in  St.  Pauls  Church-  Yard,  and  Tho. 
More  at  tlie  Maiden-head  over  against  St.  Dunstans  Church  in  Fleet- 
street.    1677.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A,  7  leaves  ;  B— N  4  in  eights. 

An  original  romance,  with  a  few  songs  in  the  earlier  portion,  and  preceded  by 
some  complimentary  verses  by  a  friend  of  the  author,  whose  name  does  not  appear. 
A  copy  is  in  the  British  Museum. 


8i2  LA    BRUYERE—LAET. 

LA  BRUYERE,  Jean  DE.  Maximes  et  Reflexions  morales  ex- 
traites  de  La  Bruycre.  A  Paris,  de  I'lmprimerie  de  Monsieur.  178 1. 
Sm.  8vo.    BLK.  M. 

LA  CHAU,  L'Abb£  de.  Dissertation  sur  les  attributs  de  Vdnus, 
qui  a  obtenu  I'Accessit,  au  jugement  de  I'Academie  Royale  des  Inscrip- 
tions &  Bclles-Lettres,  a  la  Seance  publique  du  mois  de  Nov.  1775. 
Paris.    1776.    4to. 

With  the  frontispiece  "  avant  la  coquille." 

LACTANTIUS,  L.  C.  Lucii  Coelii  Lactantii  Firmiani  Opera 
qus  extant.  Cum  selectis  variorum  commentariis,  Opera  et  studio 
Servatii  Gallaei.    Lugd.  Bat.    1660.    8vo. 

de  mortibus  persecutorum,  cum  Notis  S.  Baluzii  et  variorum. 

Traject.  ad  Rhenuin.    1693.    8vo.    BL.  M. 

LADIES  DELIGHT :  Or,  The  Merry  Songster.  Containing  a 
Collection  of  above  One  Hundred  Songs  intirely  New;  None  of  which 
are  contain'd  in  the  Syren,  Lark,  Merry  Companion,  or  any  other 
Collection.    The  Third  Edition.    London,  1741.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — I  5  in  si.\es.    With  a  frontispiece. 

LADY  ALIMONY;  Or,  The  Alimony  Lady.  An  Excellent 
Pleasant  New  Comedy  Duly  Authorized,  daily  Acted,  and  frequently 
Followed. 

Noltnnus  amplexus  Sponsales  ;  (era  novellas 
Nocte  parent  Socios  ;  qui  placuere  magis. 
Lucret. 

T^ondon,  Prifited  for  Tfio.  Vere  and  William  Gilbertson,  and  are  to  be 

sold  at  tlie  Angel  without  New-gate,  and  at  the  Bible  in  Gilt-spiir-street, 

1659.    4to.    GR.  M. 

A — K  in  fours. 

LAET,  Alphonsus.  An  Almanack  and  Pronostication  for  the 
yeare  of  oure  Lorde  M.D.  and  xlviij.  M.  Alphonsus  Laet/  brother  of 
M.  Jaspar  Laet/  Doctor  in  Physycke  and  Astronomy.  Imprinted  at 
London  by  Ricliard  Jugge,  Diuellynge  at  tlie  north  doore  of  Poiils.  A 
Broadside.    Black  letter.     With  two  woodcuts. 

This  is  believed  to  be  an  unique  copy  of  the  earliest  English  sheet  almanac 
known  to  have  been  printed,  though  it  is  probable  that  there  were  many  of 
earlier  date.  This  one  owes  its  preservation  to  having  been  pasted  into  a  copy  of 
the  English  translation  of  Erasmus's  Paraphrase  on  the  New  Testament.  It  is 
to  be  remarked  that  the  word  "  Saint "  is  omitted  in  the  holidays  marked  in  the 
Calendar. 


LAET—LAING.  813 

LAET,  J.  DE.  Nieuwe  Wereldt  ofte  Beschrijvinghe  van  West 
Indien Tot  Leydeii.     1625.     Folio.     Maps. 

L'Histoire  dv  Nouveau   Monde   ou  Description  des   Indes 

Occidentales,  Contenant  dix-huict  Liures.  Par  le  Sieur  Jean  de  Laet, 
d'Anuers A  Leyde.    1640.    Folio.    Maps  and  plates. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  14  leaves.  Pp.  1-632.  Index,  6  leaves.  Fourteen 
maps  and  plates. 

Historic  Ofte  laerlijck  Verhael  Van  de  Verrichtinghen  der 

Geoctroyeerde   West-Indische    Compagnie,   Zedert   haer   Begin,   tot 

het  eynde  van  't  jaer   sesthien-hondert-ses-en-dertich Tot 

Ley  dm 1644.    Folio.     Maps  iS  plates.    A  portrait  of  the  author 

inserted. 

Responsio  ad  dissertationem  secundam  Hugonis  Grotii  de 

origine  gentium  Americanarum.    Anist.    1644.    Sm.  8vo. 

Notse  ad  dissertationem  Hugonis  Grotii  De  Origine  Gentium 

Americanarum :  et  Observationes  aliquot  ad  meliorem  indagincm  diffi- 
cillimje  illius  Questionis.  Amstelodami,  Apud  Ludovicum  Elzevirium. 
1644.    Sm.  8vo. 

LA  FAYETTE,  Marie  de  la  Vergne,  Comtesse  de.  Histoire 
de  Madame  Henriette  d'Angleterre,  Premiere  Femme  de  Philippe  de 
France,  Due  d'Orleans.    Amsterdam.    1720.    Sm.  8vo.    Y.  M. 

Memoires  de  la  Cour  de  France  Pour  les  Annees  1688.  &  1689. 

Amsterdam  173 1.    Sm.  8vo.    Y.  Jl. 

LA  FONTAINE,  Jean  de.  CEuvres  complettes  prdc^d^es  d'une 
nouvelle  notice  sur  sa  vie.  De  I'iviprimerie  de  Crapelet.  A  Paris,  ches 
Lefcvre.    18 14.    6  vols.    8vo.    Printed  on  vellum. 

Two  copies  only  are  mentioned  by  Brunet  as  printed  on  vellum.  This  has  three 
sets  of  the  engravings,  viz.,  the  etchings,  proofs  on  vellum,  and  proofs  on  paper, 
inserted  in  the  first  volume  is  a  MS.  page  of  verse,  with  corrections  in  the  autograph 
of  the  author. 

Fables  choisies,  mises  en  vers.     Par  M.  de  la  Fontaine.    A 

Paris.  C/iez  Denys  Thierry.  M.DC.LXVIII.  4to.  Engravings  by 
F.  Chauveau.    G.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  28  leaves  ;  A — Nn  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 
The  first  edition.     The  plates  are  printed  on  the  same  pages  with  the  text 
From  the  collection  of  M.  Kamensky. 

Contes  et  Nouvelles  en  vers.    Amsterdam.     1685.     2  vols. 

Sm.  8vo.    Plates  by  Romeyn  de  Hooghe.    G.  M. 

LAING,  David.  Adversaria  Notices  illustrative  of  some  of  the 
Earlier  Works  Printed  for  the  Bannatyne  Club.  Edinburgh,  i  S67.  4to. 
Facsimiles  and  other  plates. 


8 14  LAING—LAMBARDE. 

LAING,  David.    Biographical  Notices  of  Thomas  Young,  S.T.D. 
Vicar  of  Stowmarket,  Suffolk.    Edinburgh :  12,70.    8vo.    Portrait. 
This  and  the  preceding  work  are  presentation  copies  from  Mr.  Laing. 

LALEBUCH.  Das  Lalebuch.  Wunderseltzame,  abentheurliche, 
unerhorte,  und  bisher  unbeschriebene  Geschichten  und  Thaten  der 
Lalen  zu  Laleberg.  letzund  also  frisch,  Manniglichen  zu  Ehrlicher 
Zeitverkiirtzung,  ausz  vnbekanten  Authoren  zusammen  getragen,  vnd 
ausz  Rohtvvelscher  in  Deutsche  Sprach  gesetzt  Durch  :Aabcdefgh 
iklmnopqrstuwxyz 

Die  Buchstaben  so  zu  viel  sindt, 

Nimb  ausz,  wirff  hinweg  sie  geschwindt, 
Und  was  dir  bleibt,  setz  recht  zusammen  : 
So  hastu  des  Authors  namen 
Die  newe  Zeitungen  ausz  der  ganzen  Welt,  findestu  zu  Ende  dem  Lale- 
buch angehengt.    Gedruckt  zu  Lalebnrg,  Anno  1597.    Mit  Prinilegicn 
desz  Aut/wris  allezeit  zu  verbessem  vnd  zu  vermehren,  aber  nicht  nachzu- 
drucken.    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  12  leaves  ;  B — R  iv  in  eights. 

First  edition.  See  "Goerres  Volkbucher,"  p.  183,  for  a  high  panegj'ric  of  this 
early  German  comic  romance,  which  is  there  said  to  be  full  of  the  best  thoughts 
that  wit  and  irony  could  produce.  In  the  geographical  supplement  to  Brunet  it  is 
qiioted  as  the  e^trliest  book  printed  at  Laleburg  on  the  Neckar.  By  Dr.  Graesse, 
"  Trdsor  de  Hvres  rares,"  &c.,  vi.,  p.  301,  a  book  with  a  similar  title  is  placed  under 
the  head  of  "  Schildbiirger,  Die.  Wunderseltzame,  Abendtheurliche,  &c.  Misnopo- 
tamia.  1598,"  which  he  describes  as  "Premiere  dd.  de  ce  livre  populaire  alle- 
mand,  dans  lequel  les  coutumes  bizarres  et  les  betises  de  quelques  villes  allemandes 
sont  ridiculisdes."  But  as  he  quotes  an  edition  of  1597  in  a  note,  it  is  difficult  to  see 
how  he  could  have  supposed  the  first  to  be  printed  in  1 598. 

LAMBARDE,  William.  APXAIONOMIA,  sive  de  priscis  anglo- 
rum  legibus  libri,  sermone  Anglico,  vetustate  antiquissimo,  aliquot 
abhinc  seculis  conscripti,  atq;  nunc  demum,  magno  iurisperitorum,  & 
amantium  antiquitates  omnium  commodo,  h.  tenebris  in  lucem  vocati. 

Gulielmo   Lambardo   interprete Londini,   ex  officina    Joannis 

Daij.    An.  1568.    Cvm  Gratia  .  .  .  4to. 

A— E  2  in  fours  ;  C  (repeated)— Qq  in  fours.  On  D  4  (first  alphabet)  is  a  wood- 
cut map  of  the  Heptarchy. 

A  Perambulation  of  Kent :  Conteining  the  description,  Hys- 

torie,  and  Customes  of  that  Shyre.  Collected  and  written  (for  the  most 
part)  in  the  yeare.  1570.  by  WiUiam  Lambard  of  Lincolnes  Inne  Gent, 
and  nowe  increased  by  the  addition  of  some  things  which  the  Authour 

him  selfe  hath  obserued  since  that  time Imprinted  at  London 

for  Ralphe  Newberie,  dzvelling  in  Fleetestreete  a  litle  aboue  the  Conduit. 


LAMBARDE— LANCELOT  DU    LAC.  815 

Anno.  1576.    [Colophon.]    Imprinted  at  Londot  by  Henrie  Middleton, 
for  Rafe  Newbery  ....  Anno  Domini.  1576.    4to.    Black  letter. 

If,  4  leaves  ;  Hf,  4  leaves  ;  A — lii  2  in  fours.    With  a  map  of  the  Heptarchy. 

This  first  edition  contains  matter  omitted  in  the  others. 

LAMBARDE,  William.  A  Perambulation  of  Kent:  Conteining 
the  Description,  Hystorie,  and  Customes  of  that  Shyre.  Written  in  the 
yeare  1570.  by  William  Lambarde  of  Lincolnes  Inne  Gent :  first  pub- 
lished in  the  yeere  1576.  and  now  increased  and  altered  after  the  Authors 
own  last  Copie.  Imprinted  at  London,  by  EdnuBollifajit.   1596.  4to.  R. 

A — Pp  6  in  eights,  not  including  "  A  Carde,  of  the  Beacons,  in  Kent. "  a  folding 
woodcut  between  E  and  F.    With  a  map  of  the  Heptarchy. 

The  Perambulation  of  Kent    Containing  the  Description, 

History  and  Customs  of  that  County.  Written  by  William  Lambard  of 
Lincolns  Inne ;  Corrected  and  Enlarged.  To  which  is  added  the 
Charters,  Laws  and  Privileges  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  Never  before 
printed.  London.  Printed  for  Matt/iezv  Walbancke,  and  Dan.  Pake- 
man.    1656.    8vo. 

*  8  leaves  ;  B — Uu  4  in  eights  ;  the  Charters,  &c.,  A — E  4  in  eights  ;  G  4 
blank.  There  is  in  this  copy  a  duplicate  title-page,  slightly  varying  from  the  former 
and  undated.    This  is  the  third  and  most  complete  edition. 

LAMBE,  John.  A  Briefe  Description  of  the  Notorious  Life  of 
lohn  Lambe,  otherwise  called  Doctor  Lambe.  Together  with  his  Ig- 
nominious Death.    Printed  in  Amsterdam.    1628.    4to. 

A — C  in  fours,  with  an  engraving  on  the  title  representing  Doctor  Lambe's 
death. 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection.  Lambe  was  supposed  to  be  a  necromancer  and 
astrologer. 

LAMBERT,  A.  B.  A  Description  of  the  Genus  Pinus,  illustrated 
with  figures,  directions  as  to  the  cultivation,  and  remarks  on  the 
several  species  of  the  Family  of  Coniferae.  Second  edition,  enlarged 
by  Professor  Don.  London.  1828-37.  3  ^o^^-  Atlas  folio.  Coloured 
plates.    G.  M. 

A  water-colour  drawing  of  "  Cupressus  pendula  "  is  inserted  in  this  copy. 

LAMENTABLE    COMPLAINTS,   The,    of   Nick    Froth    the 
Tapster,  and  Rvlerost  the  Cooke.    Concerning  the  restraint  lately  set 
forth,  against  drinking,  potting,  and  piping  on  the  Sabbath  day,  and 
against  selling  meate.    Printed  in  the  yeare,  1641.    4to. 
Four  leaves.    Woodcut  on  title. 

LANCELOT  DU  LAC.  Le  premier  [le  second  et  le  tiers]  volume 
de  lancelot  du  lac.    Nouuellement  imprime  a  Paris.    Lan  mil  cinq  cens 


8i6  LANE—LANEHAM. 

et  trehe.  [Colophon.]  Cyfine  le  dernier  volume  de  la  table  roiide faisant 
mention  des  fais  et  prouesses  de  monseigncur  Lancelot  du  lac  ct  dautrcs 
plusieurs  nobles  et  vaillans  hommes  ses  compaignons  Nomiellement  Im- 
primc  a  Paris  pour  Michel  le  Noir  Libraire  Jure  de  luniuersite  de 
Paris  deviourant  en  la  grant  rue  sainct  Jacques.  Lan  mil  cinq  cens  et 
trieze.  {sic^  Le  mardy  septiesme  iour  du  moys  de  Juing.  3  vols,  bound 
in  I.    Folio.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

This  edition  was  known  to  Brunei  only  through  the  sale  of  this  copy,  which  was 
formerly  in  Colonel  Stanley's  collection,  and  he  appears  almost  to  doubt  if  it  really 
existed.  He  says :  "  Une  ddition  de  Paris,  en  3  vol.  en  fol.  goth.,  annoncde  sous  la 
date  de  1513  a  dtd  payde  34  liv.  13  sh.  i  la  vente  Stanley.  Nous  ne  I'avons  pas 
vue."  It  is  probable  that  the  impression  of  1520  was  an  exact  reproduction  of  this, 
which  agrees  precisely  with  the  collation  which  Brunet  gives  of  that  edition. 

LANE,  Moses.  The  Protestant  School :  Or,  A  Method,  Con- 
taining several  Forms  of  Prayer,  Psalms,  Lessons,  Thanksgivings,  and 
Graces,  for  the  Bringing  up,  and  well  Grounding  Children  and  Elder 
Persons  in  the  Protestant  Religion,  by  the  most  Reverend  and  Learned 
Bishop  Usher :  Also  a  Catalogue  of  all  the  English  Words,  Beginning 
with  one  Syllable,  and  proceeding  by  degrees  to  Eight,  Divided  and 
not  Divided  ;  the  readiest  way  for  teaching  Children  and  Elder  Persons 
to  Spell,  Pronounce,  Read  and  Write  true  English  ....  Fitted  to  the 
Common  Use  of  all  English  Schools ;  having  a  Thousand  Words  more 
than  any  yet  Extant.  London,  Printed  for  John  Kidgell  .  .  .  .  1682. 
8vo.    Portrait  of  Charles  the  Second. 

Portrait,  title,  and  preface,  3  leaves  ;  "A  Method,"  &c.,  7  leaves;  "An  Historical 
Account,"  &c.,  with  four  pages  of  engravings,  4  leaves ;  C — M  6  in  eights. 

This  curious  volume  appears  to  be  undescribed.  At  the  end  are  "  Proverbs  for 
Children  "  and  the  Graces  before  and  after  meat.  The  author  describes  himself  as 
a  London  schoolmaster. 

LANEHAM,  Robert.  A  Letter :  Whearin,  part  of  the  entertain- 
ment vntoo  the  Queenz  Maiesty,  at  Killingwoorth  Castl,  in  Warwik 
Sheer,  in  this  Soomerz  Progress  1575.  iz  signified:  from  a  freend 
officer  attendant  in  the  Coourt,  vnto  hiz  freend  a  Citizen,  and  Mer- 
chaunt  of  London. 

De  Regina  nostra  Illvstrissima. 

Dum  laniata  mat  vicina  ah  Regna  tnmultu : 
Lata  siios  inter  genialibus  Llla  diebus, 
{Gratia  Dijs)  fruitur:  Rupantur  &  ilia  Codro. 
[London,  1^7$.]    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 
A — F  4  in  eights. 

A  beautiful  copy  in  the  original  vellum  cover,  with  strings.  From  the  library 
of  Sir  John  Percivale,  of  Burton  in  the  County  of  Cork,  with  his  book-plate,  dated 
1702. 

Below  the  Latin  lines  on  the  title,  some  one,  who  from  the  similarity  of  style 


LANGHAM—LANGLAND.  817 

and  orthography  may  be  surmised  to  have  been  Laneham  himself,  has  introduced 
the  following  English  version: 

"  While  that  oour  neighboourz  Reamz  (alas)  vprore  dooth  rend  asunder 
In  mirth  amoong  the  Subiects  that  her  Maiesty  ar  under 
She  (thanks  too  God)  leads  pleazaunt  daiz  :  let  spite  &  mallis  wunder." 
The  Letter  is  directed  by  Laneham  '•  V'ntoo  my  good  freend.  Master  Humfrey 

Martin  Mercer."    There  were  two  editions,  both  without  date  or  place,  probably 

printed  in  quick  succession. 

LANGHAM,  William.  The  Garden  of  Health,  Conteynmg  the 
sundry  rare  and  hidden  vertues  and  properties  of  all  kindes  of  Simples 
and  Plants,  together  with  the  maner  how  they  are  to  be  vsed  and 
applyed  in  medicine  for  the  health  of  mans  body,  against  diuers 
diseases  and  infirmities  most  common  amongst  men Im- 
printed at  London.    1579.    4to.    Black  letter. 

f ,  4  leaves ;  A — Xx  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank ;  the  table,  a — d  4  in  eights. 

The  Garden  of  Health  :  .  .  .  .  The  second  Edition  corrected 

and  amended.  Lond<)n,  Printed  by  Thomas  Harper,  with  permission  of 
tlie  Company  of  Stationers.   1633.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — Bbb  in  eights,  besides  four  leaves  of  preliminaries. 

LANGLAND,  William.  The  Vision  of  Pierce  Plowman,  now 
fyrste  imprynted  by  Roberte  Crowley,  dwellyng  in  Ely  rentes  in  Hol- 
burne.  Anno  Domini.  1505  [1550.]  Ctim  priiiilegio  ad  imprimendu 
solum.  [Colophon.]  Imprynted  at  London  by  Roberte  Crowley,  dwel- 
lynge  in  Elye  rentes  in  Holbiirne.  Tlie yere  of  our  Lorde.  M.D.L.  Cum 
priiiilegio.  .  .  .  4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Title  and  the  Printer  to  the  Reader,  2  leaves ;  A — Gg  i  in  fours. 
First  and  most  correct  edition.     It  is  far  rarer  than  the  second  of  1550. 

The  vision  of  Pierce  Plowman,  newlye  imprynted  after  the 


authours  olde  copy,  with  a  breefe  summary  of  the  principall  matters 
set  before  euery  part  called  Passus.  Wherevnto  is  also  annexed  the 
Crede  of  Pierce  Plowman,  neuer  Imprinted  with  the  booke  before. 
Imprynted  at  London,  by  Owen  Rogers,  dwellyng  neare  vnto  great  Saint 
Bartelmewes  gate,  at  the  sygne  of  the  spred  Egle:  The  yere  of  our 
Lorde  God,  a  thousand,  fyue  hundred,  thre  score  and  one.  The .  xxi .  daye 
of  tlie  Monethof  Febriiarye.  Cum  priiiilegio  ...  ^to.   Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

+  ,  2  leaves ;  A — I  i  2  in  fours ;  the  "  Crede,"  with  a  new  title,  A — D  3  in  fours. 
The  Creed  had  been  printed  by  itself  in  1553. 

The  vision  and  the  creed  of  Piers  Ploughman,    newly  im- 


printed.   [Edited  by  T.  Wright.]    London,  W.Pickering.    1842.    2  vols. 
Sm.  8vo.    Printed  on  vellum.    BR.  M. 

5  B 


le 


8,8  LANGSTON-LANYER. 

LANGSTON,  John.  Lvsvs  Poeticvs  Latino-Anglicanus.  in  usum 
Scholarum.  Or  The  more  eminent  Sayings  of  the  Latin  Poets  Col- 
lected ;  and  for  the  service  of  Youth  in  that  Ancient  exercise,  com- 
monly called  Capping  of  Verses,  Alphabetically  digested  .  .  .  .London, 
Printed  for  Henry  Eversdm 1675.    Sm.  8vo. 

A— T  in  fours.    Dedicated  to  Captain  John  Caine  of  White  Chappel. 

The  author  describes  himself  as  "  Teacher  of  a  private  Grammar-School  near 
Spittle-fields." 

[LANGUET,  HUBERTUS.]  Vindicias,  contra  Tyrannos :  sive,  d 
Principis  in  Populum,  Populique  in  Principem,  legitima  potestate,  Ste- 
phano  Ivnio  Bruto  Celta,  Auctore.  Edimburgi,  Anno  M.D.LXXIX. 
Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A— Q  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

This  Work  has  also  been  attributed  to  Duplessis-Mornay  ;  but  Querard  ("  Super- 
cheries  littt'raires  ddvoildes,"  vol.  i.,  col.  586)  shows  that  Languet  was  the  author, 
and  that  Duplessis-Mornay  was  the  editor  only. 

LANTERN  OF  LIGHT.  Here  begynnethe  the  Lanterne  of 
lyght.  [On  A  ii.]  The  Lanterne  of  lyght  fcs-  Take  here  of  our 
gracious  lorde  god  this  lytle  treatice  that  here  is  offred/  called  the 
Lanterne  of  lyght  conteyninge  .xiii.  chapyters.  [Colophon.]  Imprynted 
at  London  in  Flctestrete,  by  me  Robert  Redman,  dwellynge  at  the  sygne 
of  the  George,  tiexte  to  Saynt  Dunstones  cliurch.  \ii.  d.]  Sm.  sqr.  8vo. 
Biaek  letter.    BR.  M. 

A — H  in  eights;  I,  10  leaves.  The  title  and  C  viii  are  in  facsimile.  The  last 
leaf  has  the  colophon  on  the  recto,  and  on  the  verso  is  Pynson's  device.  Beneath  it 
is  written  in  a  contemporary  hand  :  "There  is  mention  made  of  y  Lanterne  of  light 
in  Registro  Henr.  Chicheleye  archiep  Cantuar.  in  y  depositions  against  John  Clay- 
don  an°  1415." 

This  confimis  what  might  have  been  supposed  from  the  style  of  the  book,  that 
it  was  rather  the  work  of  a  VVickliffite  than  of  one  of  the  Reformers  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  though  it  was  no  doubt  the  revival  of  Anti-papal  doctrines  which  caused  it 
to  be  printed  at  this  time.  As  Redman  did  not  make  use  of  Pynson's  device  till  after 
1530,  the  date  of  the  book  must  be- later  than  that. 

LANYER,  Emilia.  Salve  Devs  Rex  Ivda^orvm.  Containing, 
I.  The  Passion  of  Christ.  2.  Eues  Apologie  in  defence  of  Women. 
3.  The  Teares  of  the  Daughters  of  Jerusalem.  4.  The  Salutation  and 
Sorrow  of  the  Virgine  Marie.  With  diuers  other  things  not  vnfit  to  be 
read.  Written  by  Mistris  ^Emilia  Lanyer,  Wife  to  Captaine  Alfonso 
Lanyer  Seruant  to  the  Kings  Majestic.  At  London  Printed  by  Valen- 
tine Simnics  for  Richard  Bonian,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in 
Rallies  Church-yard.  ....    Anno  161 1.    4to. 

In  verse,  except  two  of  the  dedications. 

a— f  3  in  fours,  title  on  a  2 ;  A— I  i  in  fours ;  f  4  was  probably  a  blank  leaf. 

The  introductory  leaves  appear  to  have  been  added  as  an  afterthought,  and 
Hebers,  which  was  an  early  presentation  copy  to  a  friend  of  the  author,  wanted 


LA    PERRIERE—LASCARIS.  819 

them.  Some  of  them  were  also  deficient  in  the  copy  given  to  Prince  Henry,  now  in 
the  Dyce  collection  at  South  Kensington,  and  completed  from  another.  Not  more 
than  four  perfect  copies  are  known.  The  present  was  Sir  Francis  Freeling's,  and 
afterwards  HalliweU's. 

In  the  metrical  dedication  to  Lady  Pembroke  the  author  speaks  of  "  The  Psalms 
written  newly  by  the  Countesse  Dowager  of  Pembroke."  The  last  page  has  an 
address  in  prose  "  To  the  doubtful  Reader,"  in  which  it  is  explained  that  the  title, 
"  Salve  Deus  Rex  Judreorum,"  was  delivered  to  the  writer  in  a  dream.  The  "  divers 
other  works  not  unfit  to  be  read,"  consist  of  a  poetical  description  of  Cookham, 
where  Mrs.  Lanyer  received  her  first  inspirations  and  resided  for  some  time. 

[LA  PERRIERE,  Guillaume  de.]  Le  Theatre  des  bons  engins, 
auquel  sont  contenuz  cent  Emblemes.    \S.  I.  n.  d.]    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Twenty-eight  leaves. 

First  edition,  which  Brunet  says  was  probably  printed  at  Lyons.  On  the  title 
is  the  printer's  device  of  Icarus.  The  first  edition  with  woodcuts  was  printed  at 
Paris  by  Denis  Janot  about  1539. 

The  Mirrovr  of  Policie.    A  Worke  no  lesse  profitable  than 

necessarie,  for  all  Magistrates,  and  Gouernours  of  Estates  and  Common- 
weales.    London,  Printed  by  Adam  Islip.     1598.    4to.     Woodcuts. 

IT,  2  leaves;  A — LI  3  in  fours,  not  including  2  folding  leaves  in  signatures  Ff 
and  Gg. 

This  is  a  translation  of  "  Le  Miroir  Politique,"  first  printed  at  Lyons  in  1555, 
with  copies  of  some  of  the  woodcuts.  It  is  sometimes  dated  1599;  but  there  seems 
to  have  been  only  one  edition. 

[LA  PEYREYRE,  Is.]  Prae-adamitse,  sive  Exercitatio  super  ver- 
sibus  XIL  Xin.  &  XIV.  Cap.  V.  Epist.  Pauli  ad  Romanes.  \Sineloco?^ 
1655.    Sm.  Svo.    R.  M. 

L'ARMESSIN,  Nicolas  de.  Les  Augustes  Representations  de 
tous  les  Roys  de  France  depuis  Pharamond,  iusqu'a  Lovys,  XIIII.  dit 
le  Grand,  a  Present  Regnant.  1679.  Avec  vn  Abrege  Historique  Sous 
Chacun,  Contenant  Leurs  Naissances,  Inclinations  Et  Actions  plus  Re- 
marquables  Pendant  Leurs  Regnes.  De  L'armessin,  Sculp,  1679.  A 
Paris,  Chez  la  Veuue  Bertrand.    4to. 

Engraved  title  and  sixty-five  portraits. 

The  earliest  edition  of  this  book  mentioned  by  Brunet  is  1688.  The  portraits  are 
numbered  from  i  to  64;  but  the  65th,  which  represents  the  Dauphin,  son  of  Louis 
XIV.  and  grandfather  of  Louis  XV.,  is  not  numbered.  Both  this  portrait  and  that 
of  Louis  XIV.  have  the  date  of  1685  on  them. 

LARRAMENDI,  Manuel  de.  El  Impossible  Vencido.  Arte  de 
la  Lengua  Bascongada En  Salamanca.     1729.    Sm.  Svo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  19  leaves,  including  a  plate  of  the  arms  of  Guipuzcoa. 
Pp.  1-404. 

LASCARIS.  Compendivm  octo  orationis  partivm  et  aliorvm 
quorvndam  necessariorvm   editvm  a  Constantino  Lascari  Byzantio. 


820  LASCARIS—LASCO. 

[Colophon.]  Hoc  diuinum  opus  imprcssum  est  Mcdiolani  in  kalendas 
octobrcs.  M.ccccLxxx.  &  intcrprctatum  per  uatcrabilc  niru  iitriiisip  Ungues 
doctissimu  ac  optimum  I ohannem  monachiim  Placentinum.  Folio.  BR.  M. 
a-I  in  eights ;  m,  lo  leaves  (the  last  blank).  Sig.  a  i  comes  on  the  second  leaf. 
The  first  leaf  is  blank  on  the  recto,  and  on  the  verso  has  the  dedication  by  Bonus 
Accursius  to  Julius  Pomponius. 

LASCARIS.  Compendivm  octo  orationis  partivm  et  aliorvm 
quorvndam  necessariorvm  editvm  a  Constantino  Lascari  Byzantio. 
[Colophon.]  Hoc  diuinum  opus  imprcssum  est  Vicentice  per  magistru'y, 
Leofiardum  de  Basilca.  xviii.    Kalendas  lulii.  M .cccclxxxviiii.  .... 

4to.    o.  M. 

The  collation  is  the  same  as  that  of  the  edition  of  1480,  but  eighteen  leaves  are 
added  at  the  end,  the  first  of  which  is  a  bla»k. 

LASCO,  Joannes  a.  Defensio  ver.-e  semperque  in  Ecclesia  re- 
ceptee Doctrinre  de  Christ!  Domini  Incarnatione,  adversus  Mennonem 

Simonis  Anabaptistarum  Doctorem Bounce.    Ex  officina  Lau- 

rentii  Mylii.     1545.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — H  in  eights ;  I,  4  and  K,  7  leaves. 

Brevis  et  Dikicida  de  Sacramentis  Ecclcsise  Christi  tractatio, 

in  qua  &  fons  ipse,  &  ratio,  totius  Sacramentariae  nostri  temporis  co- 
troversise  paucis   exponitur :   naturaq;   ac  uis  Sacramentorum  com- 

pendio  &  per.spicuc  explicatur Londini per  Stephanum  Myerd- 

niannum.    /i«.  1552.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

Title  and  dedication  to  Edward  VI.,  12  leaves  ;  A — X  in  eights. 

Forma  ac  Ratio  Tota  Ecclesiastic!  Minister!!,  in  peregrinorum, 

potissimum  uero  Germanorum  Ecclesia:  instituta  Londini  in  Anglia, 
per  Pientissimum  Principem  Anglije  &c.  Regem  Edvardvm,  eius 
nominis  Sextu  :  Anno  post  Christum  natum  1550.  Addito  ad  calcem 
libelli  Priuilegio  suje  Maiestatis.  Avtore  Joanne  a  Lasco  Polonia; 
Barone.  Cum  breu!  etiam  (in  Epistola  nuncupatoria)  calumniaruin 
quarundam  refutatione :   quae   fals6   aduersus   ipsum,   in   Martiniani 

cuiusdam  apud  Bremen.  Pastoris  farragine  inspersae  habentur 

lysine  loco  aut  anno.'\    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  U. 

Title  and  preHminaries,  52  leaves.     B — Pp  in  eights. 

This  very  rare  volume  was  probably  printed  at  London  by  Stephen  Mierdman, 
about  1552.  The  dedicatory  epistle  addressed  to  Edward  VL  occupies  forty-three 
leaves. 

Confessio  loannis  a  Lasco,  de  nostra  cum  Christo  Domino 


communione,  &  corporis  sui  item  in  Coena  sua  exhibitione:    ad  Minis- 
tros  Ecclesiarum  Frisiae  Orientalis.  .  .  .    [Sine  loco  aut  anno.]     Sm. 


8vo.    BL.  u. 

Seven  leaves. 


LASOR    A    V AREA— LATIMER.  821 

LASOR  A  VAREA,  Alphons.  Universus  terrarum  Orbis  scrip- 
torum  calamo  delineatus,  hoc  est  auctorum  fere  omnium,  Qui  de  Eu- 
ropae,  Asiae,  Africae  et  Americae  Regnis,  Provinciis,  Populis,  Civitatibus, 

Oppidis,  Arcibus,  Maribus,  Insulis, Quovis  Tempore,  &  Quali- 

bet  Lingua  Scripserunt,  cvm  anno,  loco,  et  forma  editionis  eorum  uber- 

rimus  elenchus Patavii.    17 13.    2  vols.    Folio.    Nitmerous 

engravings.    R. 

This  work  contains  a  great  number  of  maps  and  plates,  some  printed  on  the 
letterpress. 

LATHAM,  Simon.  Latham's  Faulconry,  Or  The  Faulcons  Lure 
and  Cure  :  In  two  Books.  The  first  concerning  the  ordering  and  train- 
ing up  of  all  Hawks  in  generall ;  especially  the  Haggard  Faulcon- 
Gentle.    The  second,  teaching  approved  Medicines  for  the  cure  of  all 

Diseases  in  them London,  Printed  by  Ric.  Hodgkinsonne,  for 

Thomas  Rooks,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop,  at  the  signe  of  the  Lamb, 
at  the  East  end  of  St.  Pauls  Church,  1658.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts. 

a — b,  8  leaves  each  ;  A — M  i  in  eights.  The  second  book,  with  a  fresh  title,  A, 
8  leaves;  the  first  a  woodcut  (misplaced  in  this  copy);  )(,  4  leaves  ;  B — L4  in 
eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Latham's  Faulconry,  Or  The  Faulcons  Lure  and  Cure:  In  Two 

Books  ....  By  Simon  Latham,  Gent.  I^ondon  Printed  by  S.  Griffin, 
for  Wil.  Lee,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop,  at  the  signe  of  the  Turks 
head  in  Fleet-street,  1662.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

a — b  in  eights  ;  A — M  i  in  eights.  The  second  book,  A,  8  leaves,  the  first  occu- 
pied by  the  woodcut  frontispiece ;  )(,  4  leaves ;  B — L  4  in  eights,  L  4  blank ;  [a  new 
title-page]  "  The  Gentlemans  Exercise  ;  Or,  A  Supplement  to  Mr.  Lathams  Bookes 
of  Faulconry,  being  the  Compleatest  work  ever  yet  printed  in  our  Nation  of  this 
Subject  ....  There  is  further  added  in  this  new  Supplement  all  the  Material 
things  in  Mr.  Bert's  Treatise  of  Hawks  ....  Newly  published  this  yeere,  1662 
.  .  .  London  .  .  .  1662."  A — H  in  eights,  including  the  woodcut  frontispiece.  This 
third  part  is  preceded  by  a  preface  signed  A.  H. 

In  the  first  portion,  A  2  is  occupied  by  a  duplicate  title-page,  as  follows  :  "  The 
Whole  Work  of  Mr.  Latham's  Books  of  Faulconry,  as  he  perfected  them  some 
years  before  his  Death  :  Whereto  is  added  this  yeer  1662  an  excellent  Treatise 
called  The  Gentlemans  Exercise.  Supplying  what  was  omitted  by  the  worthy 
Author  Mr.  Latham  ..." 

LATIMER,  Hugh,  Bp.  of  Worcester.  Hugonis  Latimeri  Angli- 
cani  Pontificis  Oratio,  apud  totum  Ecclesiasticorij  c5uentum,  ante- 
quam  consultatio  publica  iniretur,  de  Regni  statu  per  Evangelium 
reformando,  regni  Inuictiss.  Regis  HenriciVIII.  Anno  uigesimo  octauo 
habita.  Basileae  M.D.XXXVII.  [Colophon.]  Basilieae,in  Officina  Ro- 
berli  Winter  Anno  a  Chris  to  nato  M.D.XXXVII  Mense  Septembri. 
Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — D  4  in  eights.  The  last  leaf  bears  only  the  printer's  device  of  Minerva 
armed. 


822  LA  TIMER. 

The  English  translation  of  this  piece  was  printed  by  Berthelet  in  November  of 

the  same  year,  under  the  title  of  "  The  Sermon made  to  the  clergie,  in  the 

couocatio,  before  the  Parlyament  began,  the  9.  day  of  June,  the  28.  yere  of  the  reigne 
of  our  Souerayne  lorde  kyng  Henry  the  VIII.,"  &c. 

From  the  collection  of  Mr.  \<.  S.  Turner. 

LATIMER,  Hugh,  Bp.  of  Worcester.     A  notable  Sermo  of  y 

reuerende  father  Maister  Hughe  Latimer,  whiche  he  preached  in  y 

Shrouds  at  paules  churche  in  Londo,  on  the  xviii.  daye  of  Januarye. 

The  yere  of  oure  Loorde  M.DXLviii.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  London 

by  Jhon  Daye,  dwcllynge  at  Aldcrsgate,  and   William  Seres,  dwellyng 

in  Peter  Colledge.     These  bokes  are  too   be  soldc  at  the  new  shop  by 

the  lytle  Conduyte  in    Chepesyde.    Cum  gratia,  &c.     Sm.    8vo.    Black 

letter.    BR.  M, 

A — D  7  in  eights. 

The  fyrste  Sermon  of  Mayster   Hugh  Latimer,  whiche  he 

preached  before  the  Kynges  Maiest.  wythin  his  graces  palayce  at 
Westmynster.  M.D.  XLIX.  the  viii.  of  Marche.  Cum  gratia,  &c. 
[Colophon.]  Imprynted  at  London  by  J  lion  Day  dwellynge  at  Alders- 
gate,  and  Wylliam  Seres,  diuellyng  in  Peter  Colledge.  These  bokes  are 
to  be  sold  at  the  new  shop  by  the  lytle  Conduyte  in  Chepesyde.  Cum  gratia, 
(sfc.  [n.  d.]  The  seconde  Sermon  of  Maister  Hughe  Latimer,  whych 
he  preached  before  the  Kynges  maiestie,  win  his  graces  Palayce  at 
Westminster  y.  xv.  day  of  Marche.  M.  ccccc.  xlix.  [Colophon.]  Im- 
printed at  London In  one  volume.    Sm.  8vo.  Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A — D  in  eights,  and  A — Ee  in  eights  ;  the  last  two  leaves  blank,  no  sig.  Z. 

Dedicated  to  Katherine,  Duchess  of  Suffolk. 

Although  the  title-pages  mention  only  the  first  and  second  sermon,  this  volume 
comprises  the  series  of  seven.  Latimer's  Address  to  the  Reader  occupies  fifteen 
pages  and  is  dated  June  21  [1550].  Bibliographers  do  not  appear  to  have  been 
aware  that  Day  and  Seres  issued  at  least  three  editions  of  these  sermons  during 
1550  and  1551. 


A  Sermon  of  Master  Latimer,  preached  at  Stamford  the.  ix. 

day  of  October.  Anno.  M.CCCCC.  and  fyftie.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted 
at  London  by  Jhon  Daye,  dwelling  oner  Aldcrsgate  beneth  Saint  Martins. 
Cum  priuihgio,  &c.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A— F  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank,  and  the  last  but  one  with  the  colophon  only. 

FrvtefvU  Sermons  Preached  by  the  right  reuerend  father,  and 


constant  Martyr  of  lesus  Christ  M.  Hugh  Latymer  newly  Imprinted: 
with  others,  not  heretofore  set  forth  in  print,  to  the  edifying  of  all 
which  will  dispose  them  selues  to  the  readyng  of  the  same.  .  .  .  1571. 
At  London,  Printed  by  lohn  Daye,  dwelling ouer  Aldcrsgate.  Cum  pri- 
uilegio  .  .  .  4to.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

Title  and  table,  2  leaves;  a— c  in  eights,  c  6  occupied  by  the  woodcut  of  Lati- 
mer preaching  ;  d— q  4  in  eights  ;   [a  new  title]   "  Seven  Sermons,  made  vpon  the 


LATIMER— LAUD.  823 

Lordes  Prayer,"  title,  i  leaf;  Epistle,  5  leaves  ;  B— Kk  3  in  eights.  From  the  col- 
lections of  Mr.  Craufurd  and  Sir  William  Tite. 

LATIMER,  Hugh,  Bp.  of  Worcester.    Fruitful!  Sermons  Preached 

by Hvgh  Latimer,  newly  Imprinted  with  others  not  heretofore 

set  forth  in  print Seene  and  allowed  .  .  .  At  London  Printed  by 

lohn  Dayc,  divellitig  oner  Aldersgate.  1584.  Ciun  Priuilegio  .  .  .  4to. 
B/ack  letter.    BL.  M. 

*,  8  leaves,  the  last  blank,  A — Uu  2  in  eights  (no  sig.  Z),  the  colophon  on  the 
last  page. 

[LATOUR  LANDRY,  Geoffroy  de.]  Der  Ritter  vom  turn 
Oder  der  Spiegel  der  Tugent  vn  Ersamkeyt,  mit  gar  schonen  vnd 
kostlichen  hystorien  Exemplen,  zu  vnd'wisung  syner  kynd.  [Colo- 
phon.] Der  Spiegel  der  Tngent  vnd  Ersamkeyt  ....  Jetz  niiw  getruckt 
zu  Straszburg durch  den  Ersamen  Johannem  Knoblouch,  Am  sybende  tag 
des  Mertzens.  Als  man  zalt  M.ccccc.  vnd.  xix.  jar.    4to.     Woodcuts. 

Folios  i-i  18,  including  the  title,  followed  by  five  leaves  of  register,  not  numbered. 

Editions  had  already  appeared  in  German,  in  1493  and  15 13,  but  the  first 
edition  appears  to  have  been  that  of  Ca.\ton.  translated  from  a  French  MS.  and 
printed  about  1484.  Mr.  Blades,  in  his  "  Life  of  Caxton,"  has  given  an  extract  from 
the  work  which  may  well  have  furnished  Shakespeare  with  the  groundwork  of  the 
story  of  the  "  Taming  of  the  Shrew." 

LAUD,  W.,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Rome  for  Canter- 
bury :  Or  a  true  Relation  of  the  Birth,  and  Life,  of  William  Laud, 
Arch-bishop  of  Canterbury :  Together  with  the  whole  manner  of  his 
proceeding,  both  in  the  Star-Chamber,  High-commission  Court,  in  his 
owne  House,  and  some  observations  of  him  in  the  Tower.  With  his 
carriage  at  the  sight  of  the  Deputyes  going  to  the  place  of  Execution, 
&c.  Dedicated  to  all  the  Arminian  Tribe,  or  Canterburian  Faction, 
in  the  yeare  of  grace,  1641.  Whereunto  is  added  all  the  Articles  by 
which  he  stands  charged  of  High  Treason,  &c.  Printed  also  in  the 
same.     1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves,  with  an  emblematical  wood-engraving  on  the  title. 

The  Last  Advice  of  William  Lavd,  late  Arch-Bishop,  to  his 

Episcopall  Brethren ;  and  especially  to  Bishop  WVen,  who  still  re- 
maines  Prisoner  in  the  Tower.  Which  was  found  in  the  said  Arch- 
Bishops  Studie  since  his  death  among  his  other  Writings,  and  now  set 
forth  to  publike  view.    London,  Printed  for  J.  B.    1645.    4to. 

Four  leaves,  with  a  cut  on  the  title  intended  to  represent  the  archbishop  in  his 
shroud. 

A  true  Description,  or  Rather  a  Parallel  betweene  Cardinall 

Wolsey,  Arch-Bishop  of  York,  and  William  Laud,  Arch-Bishop  of 
Canterbvry.    Printed  in  the  Yeare  1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 


824  LAURENBERG— LAVENDER. 

LAURENBERG,  Sebast.    DissertatioGeographica.continens  de 

America  priscis  cognita,  Theses  probabiles Haiinice.    1664. 

4to. 

LAURENTIUS,  Andreas.  Discvrsvs  Philosophicus  at  Medicus 
de  Melancholia  et  Catarrho,  In  quo  de  eorum  differentiis,  causis,  signis, 
et  curandi  ratione  accurate  disseritur,  A  loanne  Theodoro  Schonlino 
.  .  .  ex  .  .  .  Andrcx  Laurentii  .  .  .  libello  Latio  adscriptus.  Aiigustce. 
Anno  Christi:  M.DC.XX.    1620.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Engraved  title  and  ten  otlier  preliminary  leaves  ;  pp.  1-247. 

This  little  volume  is  principally  remarkable  for  the  close  resemblance  which  the 
title  bears  to  that  of  Burton's  "  Anatomy  of  Melancholy,"  which  was  first  published 
in  the  year  following  this. 

LA VATER,  John  Caspar.  Essays  on  Physiognomy.  .  .  .  Illus- 
trated by  more  than  eight  hundred  Engravings  accurately  copied,  and 
some  duplicates  added  from  originals.  Executed  by  or  under  the 
Inspection  of  Thomas  Holloway.  Translated  from  the  French  by 
Henry  Hunter.  .  .  .  London.    1789-98.    3  vols,  in  5.    4to.    Plates.    R. 

LAVATER,  Lewes.  Of  ghostes  and  spirites  walking  by  nyght, 
and  of  strange  noyses,  crackes,  and  sundry  forewarnynges,  whiche 
commonly  happen  before  the  death  of  menne,  great  slaughters,  & 
alterations  of  kyngdomes.  One  Booke,  Written  by  Lewes  Lauaterus 
of  Tigurine.  And  translated  into  Englyshe  by  R.  H.  Printed  at  Lon- 
don by  Henry  Benneyman  for  Richard  Watkyns.  1572.  4to.  Black 
letter,    o.  M. 

Title  and  To  the  Reader,  2  leaves  ;  b — c  2  in  foiirs ;  A — Ee  2  in  fours. 

In  an  "  Advertisement  to  the  Reader,"  apologizing  for  the  errors  of  the  press, 
there  is  the  following  passage:  "Although  some  of  our  Printers  be  not  Homers, 
neyther  sene  in  Greeke  nor  Latine,  nor  sometime  exactly  in  Englishe,  yet  can  they 
nod  and  take  a  nap,  as  well  as  any  Homer." 

Of  Ghostes  and   Spirites  walking  by  Night One 


Booke,  Written  by  Lewes  Lauaterus  of  Tigurine.  And  translated  into 
English  by  R.  H.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Thomas  Creede.  1596.  4to. 
Black  letter.    O.  M. 

a — c  2  in  fours ;  A — Ee  2  in  fours. 

LAVENDER,  Theophilus.  The  Travels  of  fovre  English  Men 
and  a  Preacher  into  Africa,  Asia,  Troy,  Bythinia,  Thracia,  and  to  the 
Blacke  Sea:  and  into  Syria,  Cilicia,  Pisidia,  Mesopotamia,  Damascvs, 
Canaan,  Galile,  Samaria,  ludea,  Palestina,  lerusalem,  lericho,  and  to 
the  Red  Sea  :  and  to  sundry  other  places.  Begvnne  in  the  Yeere  of 
Ivbile,  1600.  and  by  some  of  them  finished  the  yeere  161 1.  the  others 
not  yet  returned At  London  Imprinted  by  Felix  Kyngston,  for 


LAWES.  825 

William  A  spicy,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  P aides  Church-ycard, 
at  the  signe  of  t/te  Parrot.    161 2.    4to.     The  edges  uncut.    G.  M. 

A — S  2  in  fours,  the  title  on  A  2. 

The  present  copy  has  the  autograph  of  Sir  Roger  Twysden  (1620)  and  manu- 
script notes  by  him. 

LAWES,  Henry  and  William.  Choice  Psalmes  put  into  Mu- 
stek, For  Three  Voices.  The  most  of  which  may  properly  enough  be 
sung  by  any  three,  with  a  Thorough  Base.  Compos'd  by  Henry  and 
WiUiam  Lawes,  Brothers  ;  and  Servants  to  His  Majestie.  With  divers 
Elegies,  set  in  Musick  by  sev'rall  Friends,  upon  the  death  of  William 
Lawes.  And  at  the  end  of  the  Thorough  Base  are  added  nine  Canons 
of  Three  and  Foure  Voices,  made  by  William  Lawes.  London,  Printed 
by  James  Young  for  Humphrey  Moseley  .  .  .  and  for  Richard  Wode- 
nothe  .  .  .   1648.    4to.    BL.  M. 

Cantus  Primus :  A,  4  leaves,  including  a  portrait  of  Charles  I.  as  a  frontispiece ; 
a,  2  leaves ;  B — L  in  fours,  E  4  blank,  and  a  leaf  after  L  4  unmarked,  with  the  table, 
&c.  Cantus  Secundus :  A,  4  leaves  (portrait  on  the  back  of  the  title),  the  first  leaf 
blank ;  a,  2  leaves  ;  M  (continued  from  last  part) — X  in  fours,  P  4  blank.  Bassus  : 
A,  4  leaves,  the  first  having  the  portrait  of  the  king ;  a,  2  leaves  ;  Y  (continued  from 
Cantus  Secundus — Hh  in  fours,  Bb  4  wanting,  but  evidently  a  blank  as  the  text  is 
complete.  Thorough  Base  :  A,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank;  A,  2  leaves ;  li  (continued 
from  Bassus) — Oo  in  fours. 

This  is  a  book  of  g^eat  rarity  in  a  complete  state,  with  all  the  parts.  Portions 
only  were  in  the  Heber  collection  and  in  the  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica. 

Ayres  and  Dialogues,  For  One,  Two,  and  Three  Voyces.    By 

Henry  Lawes  Servant  to  his  late  Ma"',""  in  his  publick  and  private 
Musick.  The  First  Booke.  London,  Printed  by  T.  H.for  John  Play- 
ford,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  the  Inner  Temple,  near  the  Church 

door.    1653. The  Second  Book  of  Ayres  and  Dialogues,  For  One, 

Two,  and  Three  Voyces  ....  London,  Printed  by  T.  H.for  Jo.  Play- 
ford  1655. Ayres  and  Dialogues,  for  One,  Two,  and  Three 

Voyces  .  .  .  The  Third  Book.  London, printed  by  IV.  Godbid  for  John 
Play  ford  .  .  .  .  1658.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Book  i. :  a — b,  A — K,  and  Aa — Gg  in  twos.  Dedicated  to  the  Countess  of 
Carbery,  and  to  Lady  Herbert  of  Cherbury,  with  commendatory  verses  by  Waller, 
Edward  and  John  Phillips,  &c.  Book  ii. :  a,  2  leaves  ;  b,  4  leaves  ;  B — H  in  twos ; 
II — III,  2  leaves  each;  K — N,  2  leaves  each.  Dedicated  to  Sir  Edward  Dering, 
of  Surrenden-Dering.  With  commendatory  lines  by  Katharine  Phillips,  Charles 
Colman,  &c.  Book  iii. :  Title,  dedication  by  Lawes  to  Lord  Colraine,  and  a  poem 
by  Horatio  Moore,  3  leaves ;  B — O  i  in  twos.  The  portrait  of  Lawes,  engraved  by 
Faithorne,  is  on  the  title  of  each  part. 

The  Treasury  of  Musick :  Containing  Ayres  and  Dialogues 

To  Sing  to  the  Theorbo-Lute  or  Basse-Viol.  Composed  By  Mr.  Henry 
Lawes,  late  Servant  to  His  Majesty  in  His  Publick  and  Private  Musick: 
And  other  Excellent  Masters.     In  Three  Books.    London,  Printed  by 

5C 


826  LA  WRENCE. 

William  Godbid  for  John  Play  ford,  and  are  to  be  Sold  at  his  Shop  in 
tlie  Temple,  near  the  Church  Dorc.     1669.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Book  i.:  Title,  dedication  by  Playford  "to  all  Lovers  of  Vocall  Musick,"  and 
contents,  3  leaves  ;  B— Ff  in  twos.  Book  ii. :  Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ; 
B— Bb  in  twos  ;  Aa  (repeated)— Ff  in  twos.  Book  iii. :  Title,  dedication,  &c.,  as  in 
the  edition  of  1658,  3  leaves;  B— O  i  in  twos. 

In  this  enlarged  and  altered  edition  the  changes  apply  only  to  Books  i-ii.,  the 
third  book  being  merely  the  unsold  copies  of  the  impression  of  1658  reissued  with 
a  new  title.  In  the  first  and  second  books  the  dedications  and  some  of  the  other 
preliminary  matter  are  omitted,  and  in  both  there  are  considerable  augmentations 
by  other  masters. 

LAWRENCE,  Henry.  Of  our  Communion  and  Warre  with 
Angels.  Being  certain  Meditations  on  that  subject,  bottom'd  parti- 
cularly (though  not  concluded  within  the  compasse  of  that  Scripture) 
on  Ephes.  6.  12.  with  the  following  verses  to  the  19.  Printed  Anno 
Doin.  1646.    4to. 

Title,  I  leaf ;  *,  4  leaves  ;  A — Bb  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  with  the  errata. 

With  dedication  "  To  my  Most  deare  and  Most  honour'd  Mother,  the  Lady 
Lawrence,"  in  which  the  author  speaks  of  his  residence  abroad  at  the  time  that  the 
Civil  War  broke  out. 

LAWRENCE,  Leonard.  A  Small  Treatise  betwixt  Arnalte  and 
Lucenda  Entituled  The  Evill-intreated  Lover,  or  The  Melancholy 
Knight.  Originally  written  in  the  Greeke  Tongue  by  an  unknowne 
Author.  Afterwards  Translated  into  Spanish  ;  after  that,  for  the  Ex- 
cellency thereof  into  the  French  Tongue  by  N.  H.  next  by  B.  M.  into 
the  Thuscan,  and  now  turn'd  into  English  Verse  by  L.  L.  a  well-wisher 
to  the  Muses.  [Motto  from  Ovid,  "  De  Tristibus."]  London :  Printed 
by  I.  Okcs  for  H.  Mosley,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  tlie  Signe  of 
the  Princes  Amies  in  Pauls  Church-yard,  1639.    410. 

A — P  in  fours,  and  a  (between  A  and  B),  4  leaves. 

Dedicated  "To  his  more  than  Honour'd  Unckle  Adam  Lawrence,"  in  prose,  and 
"  To  the  Noble-minded  Reader,"  and  "  To  all  Faire  Ladies,  Famous  for  their  Vertues 
....  but  most  especially  to  that  Paragon  of  Perfection,  the  very  Non-such  of  her 
Sexe,  famous  by  the  name  of  Mistris  M.  S.,"  in  verse.  There  are  several  sets  of 
complimentary  poems,  including  one  by  the  author's  brother,  J.  Lawrence;  and  im- 
mediately before  the  poem  itself  occur  two  pages  of  verse  headed  thus:  "  The  Trans- 
lator tenders  his  respect  to  all  ingenious  Poets,  who,  he  hopes  will  cherish  these  his 
Infant  Verses,  as  being  the  first  that  hee  ever  Writ." 

A  prose  English  version  of  "  Arnalte  and  Lucenda  "  was  published  by  Claudius 
Desainliens,  alias  HoUyband,  with  his  Rules  and  Dialogues  for  Italian  students, 
Sm.  8vo,  1575. 

LAWRENCE,  William.  Marriage  by  the  Morall  Law  of  God 
Vindicated  Against  all  Ceremonial  Laws  of  Popes  and  Bishops  de- 
structive to  Filiation,  Aliment  and  Succession  and  the  Government 
of  Faijiilyes  and  Kingdomes.  .  .  .  1680.    4to. 


LAWSON—LEAR.  827 

Engraved  title  as  above,  i  leaf;  index,  19  leaves;  printed  title,  "The  Two 

Great  Questions London,  Printed  /or  the  Author,  16S1,"  i  leaf;  then  pp.  1-14. 

Book  i.  a,  4  leaves  ;  B — S  in  fours  (Q  2  seems  to  be  a  cancel).  Book  ii.  b,  4 
leaves  with  the  contents  ;  Aa — Nnn  in  fours,  last  leaf  blank.  [Book  iii.]  "  The 
Right  of  Primogeniture,"  with  a  new  title,  A,  4  leaves ;  (a)— (b),  4  leaves  each ;  B  — Cc 
in  fours  ;  errata,  i  leaf. 

LAWSON,  John.  A  New  Voyage  to  Carolina  ;  Containing  the 
Exact  Description  and  Natural  History  of  that  Country:  Together 
with  the  Present  State  thereof.  And  a  Journal  Of  a  Thousand  Miles, 
Travel'd  thro'  several  Nations  of  Indians.  Giving  a  particular  Account 
of  their  Customs,  Manners,  &c.  By  John  Lawson,  Gent.  Surveyor- 
General  of  North-Carolina.    London:  Printed  in  the  Year  1709.    4to. 

A,  3  leaves  ;  B — LI  in  fours.    A  folding  map  before  Sig.  K.  and  a  plate  at  p.  115. 

Dedicated  to  the  proprietors  of  Carolina  by  the  writer,  who  states  that  he  had 
spent  the  greater  part  of  the  eight  years  he  had  been  in  Carolina  in  travelling  about 
the  province  and  to  the  adjacent  parts. 

This  work  was  originally  published  as  four  parts  of  a  collection  of  voyages  and 
travels,  issued  monthly  under  the  title  of  "A  New  Collection  of  Voyages  and  Travels. 
With  Historical  Accounts  of  Discoveries  and  Conquests  In  all  Parts  of  the  World 
....  Londo?i  ....  1709."  This  copy  has  separate  titles,  inserted  for  this  col- 
lection of  voyages,  at  pp.  i,  61,  133,  and  181,  published  in  the  months  of  April, 
May,  June,  and  July,  1709. 

LAYEN  SPIEGEL  von  rechtmaszigen  ordnungen  in  Burgerlichen 
vnd  peinlichen  regimenten.  [Colophon.]  Vollbracht  ist  also  sdliglichen 
das  buck  gcnant  Layenspiegel,  in  der  kaiser lichti  haubtstat  Vindelica  yetz 
Augsptirg  des  lands  schwaben,  von  Maister  Hansen  Otviar.  Diirch  ord- 
nung  vn  darlegimg  gantzes  kostens  Des  ersamen  vn  fiirsichtigen  IierrTi 
johann  Rynman  von  oringh  in  der  teutschen  nation  namhafftigsten  buch- 
fiirers,  vn  geendt  an  sunt  Andreas  abend  des  erste7i  swelff poten,  des  jars 
als  man  zalt  nach  crist  geburt.    M.D.IX.    Folio.    Woodcuts. 

C,  8  leaves  ;  itS",  6  leaves  ;  A— Q  in  eights  and  sixes  alternately  ;  R,  6  leaves  ;  S, 
8  leaves  ;  T,  6  leaves  ;  V,  8  leaves  ;  X,  Y,  Z,  6  leaves  each,  the  last  blank. 

LEADER,  Thomas.    The  Wounded-Heart ;  Or,  the  Jury-Man's 

Defences  declared,  and  ingeniously  acknowledged  .  . .  London.  Printed 

in  the  Year  1665.    4to. 

A — B  2  in  fours. 

LEAR,  King.  The  True  Chronicle  History  of  King  Leir,  and  his 
three  daughters,  Gonorill,  Ragan,  and  Cordelia.  As  it  hath  bene  diuers 
and  sundry  times  lately  acted.  London,  Printed  by  Simon  Stafford 
for  lohn  Wright,  and  are  to  bee  sold  at  his  shop  at  Christcs  Church  dore, 
next  Newgate- Market.    1605.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — I  in  fours. 

Of  the  greatest  rarity.  This  is  the  drama  from  which  Shakespeare  is  supposed 
to  have  taken  the  outline  and  some  of  the  incidents,  with  the  names  of  several  of 


828  LEARN— LE    CLERCQ. 

the  dramatis  persons,  for  his  own  play  of  "  King  Lear."    It  is  reprinted  by  Nichols 
in  the  "Six  Old  Plays,"  1779. 

LEARN  to  lye  warm,  Or,  An  apology  for  that  Proverb  Tis 
good  sheltring  under  an  old  Hedge.  Containing  Reasons,  wherefore 
a  Young  Man  should  marry  an  Old  Woman.  Written  in  a  letter  to 
K.  D.  By  the  Command  of  a  Person  of  Honour.  London,  Printed 
by  H.  Bnigis  for  W.  Gilbert,  at  tlie  Half  moon  in  St.  Pauls  Church- 
yard, 1672.    4to. 

A— E  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

This  appears  to  refer  to  an  actual  occurrence.  See  the  reference  to  James 
Howell  at  p.  13. 

LEATHER  :  A  Discourse,  Tendered  to  the  High  Court  of  Parlia- 
ment. Of  the  Generall  vse  of  Leather.  The  generall  Abuse  thereof 
.  .  .  And  lastly,  a  Petition  to  the  High  Court  of  Parliament  .  .  . 
London,  Printed  by  T.  C.  for  Michael  Spar ke  .  .  .  1629.    4to. 

A — D  in  fours. 

LEBEUS-BATILLIUS.  Dionysii  Lebei-Batillii  Regii  Medio- 
matricu  Prassidis  Emblemata.  Emblemata  a  lano  lac.  Boissardo  Vesun- 
tino  delineata  sunt.  Et  a  Theodoro  de  Bry  sculpta,  et  nunc  recens  in 
lucem  edita.    Francofiirti  ad  McBnii.     1596.    4to.    Plates. 

A — S  in  eights,  including  the  title  and  portrait  of  the  author.  The  last  leaf  of 
sheet  R  and  of  sheet  S  is  blank. 

LE  BRUN,  J,  P.  B.  Galerie  des  Peintres  Flamands,  HoUandais  et 
Allemands ;  Ouvrage  enrichi  de  Deux  Cent  une  Planches  gravees 
d'apr^s  les  meilleurs  Tableaux  de  ces  Maitres  ....  Avec  un  texte 
explicatif  ....  Paris.  1792-6.  3  vols.  Folio.  Plates.  Proofs  before 
letters.    G.  M. 

LECHFORD,  Thomas.  Plain  Dealing  :  or,  Newes  from  New- 
England  ....  A  short  view  of  New-Englands  present  Government, 
both  Ecclesiasticall  and  Civil,  compared  with  the  anciently-received 
and  established  Government  of  England,  in  some  materiall  points ; 
fit  for  the  gravest  consideration  in  these  times  ....  [Quotation  from 
Seneca.]  London,  Printed  by  IV.  E.  and  I.  G.  for  Nath :  Butter,  at 
the  signe  of  the pyde  Bull  neere  S.  Austins  gate.  1642.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — L  in  fours. 

LE  CLERCQ,  Chrestien.  Premier  etablissement  de  la  foy  dans 
la  Nouvelle  France,  contenant  la  publication  de  I'Evangile,  I'Histoire 
des  Colonies  Fran9oises,  &  les  fameuses  decouvertes  depuis  le  Fleuve 
de  Saint  Laurent,  la  Louisiane  &  le  Fleuve  Colbert  jusqu'au  Golphe 


LE    CLERCQ—LEDESMA.  829 

Mexique,  achevees  sous  la  conduite  de  feu  Monsieur  de  la  Salle.  Par 
ordre  du  Roy.  Avec  les  victoires  remport^es  en  Canada  par  les  armes 
de  Sa  Majeste  sur  les  Anglois  &  les  Iroquois  en  1690.  A  Paris,  Chez 
A  mable  A  uroy.    1 69 1 .    2  vols.    S  m.  8  vo. 

Vol.  i.  Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  pp.  1-559.  Vol.  ii.  Title  and  "Table 
des  chapitres"  to  both  volumes,  5  leaves  ;  pp.  1-458. 

LE  CLERCO,  Chrestien.    Nouvelle  Relation  de  la  Gaspesie,  qui 
contient  Les  Moeurs  &  la  Religion  des  Sauvages  Gaspesiens  Porte- 
Croix,  adorateurs  du  Soleil,  &  d'autres  Peuples  de  TAm^rique  Septen- 
trionale,  dite  le  Canada.   A  Paris,CIiezAmableAtiroy.    1691.    Sm.  8vo. 
Title  and  preliminaries,  14  leaves;  pp.  1-572. 

LECTIONARIUM  et  Sequentiae  cum  antiphonariis  et  orationibus 
pro  festis  ecclesiae  Romanae.    Circa  A.D.  1520.    Folio. 

A  manuscript  on  vellum,  by  an  Italian  scribe,  with  eight  large  paintings  sur- 
rounded by  elaborate  borders.  It  is  bound  in  oak  boards,  covered  with  crimson 
velvet,  with  gilt  comers  and  clasps,  the  centre  ornaments  being  four  Nielli,  (portraits 
of  Leo  X.  and  Cardinal  Bembo  on  the  obverse,  and  their  arms  on  the  reverse, 
of  the  covers).  They  are  beautifully  engraved,  and  have  been  ascribed  to  the  hand 
of  Benvenuto  Cellini. 

The  eight  paintings  represent — I.  The  Birth  of  Christ.  2.  Christ  rising  from  the 
Tomb.  3.  The  Nativity  of  St.  John  the  Baptist.  4.  St.  Augustine  expounding  to 
four  kneeling  Monks.  5.  St.  John  writing  his  Gospel.  6.  The  Visit  of  the  Three 
Marys  to  the  Sepulchre.  7.  High  Priests  and  Scribes.  8.  Four  monks  praying 
beside  the  Corpse  of  a  Bishop.  Beneath  each  miniature  is  a  magnificently  painted 
border. 

From  the  collection  of  Count  Cicognara,  and  subsequently  in  the  collection  of 
Sir  W.  Tite. 

LEDERER,  John.  The  Discoveries  of  John  Lederer,  In  three 
several  Marches  from  Virginia,  To  the  West  of  Carolina,  And  other  parts 
of  the  Continent :  Begun  in  March  1669,  and  ended  in  September 
1670.  Together  with  A  General  Map  of  the  whole  Territory  which  he 
traversed.  Collected  and  Translated  out  of  Latine  from  his  Discourse 
and  Writings,  By  Sir  William  Talbot  Baronet.  [Quotation  from  Virg. 
Georg.]  London,  Printed  by  J.  C.for  Samuel  Heyrick,  at  Grays-Inne- 
gate  in  Holborn.i6j2.    4to.    Map.    R.  M. 

A — E  2  in  fours,  the  first  leaf  of  A  occupied  by  the  imprimatur. 
Dedicated  by  Talbot  to  Anthony,  Lord  Ashley. 

LEDESMA,  AlonsO  de.  Conceptos  Espiritvales  de  Alonso  de 
Ledesma,  natural  de  Segouia.  Dirigidos  a  nvestra  Senora  de  la 
Fuencisla  ....  En  Madrid,  por  Andres  SancJus.  Alio  1600.  A  casta 
de  Pedro  de  la  Torre,  y  vendese  en  el  patio  de  Palacio.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  16  leaves  ;  A — Kk  in  eights. 

First  edition.     Senor  Salvd  had  only  that  of  1602,  which  was  unknown  to 


830  LEDESMA—LE  FEVRE. 

Brunei  or  Antonio,  but  he  remarks  that  there  is  an  edition  of  1600,  saying:  "  N. 
Antonio  no  conocid  esta  edicion(i6o2) ;  pero  mencionauna  de  Madrid,  1600,  fecha 
que  Ueva  la  Tasa  de  la  presente." 

LEDESMA,  Alonso  de.  Romancero  y  Monstro  imaginado. 
Compuesto  por  Alonso  de  Ledesma,  Dirigido  d  Pedoro  de  Tapia,  del 
Consejo  Real,  y  de  la  general,  y  suprema  Inquisicion.  24.  Ano  1616. 
En  Barcelona,  por  Sebastian  de  Cormellas,  al  Call.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Second  edition.    Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  folios  1-181  ;  table,  4  leaves. 

"  El  Romancero  de  Ledesma,  esclusivamente  compuesto  de  poesias  suyas,  con- 
tiene  muchos  villancicos,  ddcimas,  endechas,  jeroglificos  y  hasta  seguidillas.— No 
desmiente  en  esta  obra  el  autor  su  gran  reputation  como  poeta  y  nos  hace  ver  en 
ella,  que  con  igual  facilidad  y  maestria  cantaba  las  alabanzas  de  los  santos  que 
empuiiaba  el  Idtigo  de  la  sdtira,  empleando  ademds  el  lenguaje  picaresco  y  festivo 
en  los  asuntos  amorosos.  El  Monstro  imaginado  es  una  especie  de  novela  en 
equivocos,  escrita  en  prosa  ;  el  autor  la  intitula  crdnica  y  pretende  haberla  traducido 
de  la  lengua  siria." — Salvd,  i.,  p.  128. 

LEDWICH,  Rev.  Edward.  Antiquitates  Sarisburienses :  Con- 
taining, I.  A  Dissertation  on  the  Antient  Coins  found  at  Old  Sarum, 
II.  The  Salisbury  Ballad  [by  Walter  Pope.]  III.  The  History  of 
Old  Sarum  .  .  .  IV.  Historical  Memoirs,  relative  to  the  City  of  New 
Sarum.  V.  The  Lives  of  the  Bishops  of  Old  and  New  Sarum  .... 
VI.  The  Lives  of  Eminent  Men,  Natives  of  Salisbury.  Salisbnty  : 
Printed  and  Sold  by  E.  Easton  ijji.    8vo. 

LEE,  Nathanael.  Dramatick  Works.  London:  1734.  3  vols. 
Sm.  8vo.    Plates. 

LEEVEN  en  Daden  Der  Doorluchtighste  Zee-Helden  En  Ont- 
deckers  van    Landen,   deser   Eeuwen.     Beginnende  met   Christoffel 

Columbus En  eyndigende  met  den  Roemruchtigen  Admirael 

M.A.  de  Ruyter f  Amsterdam.    1676.    4to. 

Preliminaries,  6  leaves,  including  title,  engraved  title,  and  portraits  of  De 
Ruyter  and  Columbus,  pp.  1—350  ;  plates  at  pp.  20,  44,  79,  89,  108,  128,  153,  183, 
210,  235,  280.  Part  2.  A  half-title,  pp.  1—303,  and  Register  3  leaves  ;  plates  at 
PP-  J.  7.  29,  43>  71.  8s,  92,  121,  166,  173,  179,  185,  251,  258,  271,  281,  295,  299. 

LE  FEVRE,  Francois.  Le  Secret  &  Mist^re  des  luifs  iusques 
k  present  cach6.  Et  maintenant  mis  en  lumiere,  par  Francoys  le  Feure. 
Histoire  de  Theodose  Potife  de  la  loy,  &  de  Philippe  chrestien,  par 
laquelle  le  mist^re  &  secret  des  iuifs  est  reuel^  a  nostre  grade  instruc- 
tion, &  cofirmatio  de  nostre  foy,  approbatio  de  I'incredulit^  &  cecit^ 
des  Iuifs,  le  tout  a  I'augmentation  de  la  gloire  de  Dieu  &  aduance- 
ment  de  son  regne.  A  Paris.  Pour  Barbe  Regnaidt  ....  1562. 
Sm.  Svo. 

Sixteen  leaves. 


LE   FEVRE—LEGENDM   CATHOLICS.        831 

LE  FEVRE,  Raoul.  Le  recueil  des  histoires  troiennes  contenans 
troys  liures.  Au  premier  est  contenu  la  genealogie  de  saturne  et  de 
Jupiter  s5  filz  auecques  leurs  faicts  et  gestes.  Au  second  est  contenu 
des  faitz  et  des  prouesses  du  vaillat  hercules  comet  il  detruisit  troies 
deux  fois  dessoubz  le  roy  laomedo  et  loccist.  Au  tiers  est  contenue  la 
reedificacion  de  ladicte  troye  faicte  par  le  roy  priant  et  generalle 
destruction  dicelle  faicte  par  les  gregoys  auecques  plusieurs  aultres 
belles  et  plaisantes  matieres.  [Colophon.]  Finist  le  recueil  des  his- 
toires de  troies hnprinie  a  paris  par  Ant/wine  verard  libraire 

danourdt  sitr  le  pont  nostre  dame.  ....  \^Sans  date.]  Folio.  Black 
letter.     IVoodciits.    R.  M. 

a — y  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  Ancient  Historic  of  the  Destrvction  of  Troy.     Contein- 

ing  the  Fovnders  and  foundation  of  the  said  Citie,  with  the  causes, 
and  maner  of  the  first  and  second  spoiles,  and  sackings  thereof,  by 
Hercules  his  followers :  and  the  third  and  last  vtter  desolation  and 
ruine,  eiYected  by  Menelaus  and  all  the  notable  worthies  of  Greece, 
Here  also  are  mentioned  the  Rising  and  flourishing  of  sundry  Kings 
with  their  Realmes  :  as  also  the  decay  and  overthrow  of  diuer  others. 
Besides  many  admirable,  and  most  rare  exploits  of  Chiualrie  .  .  . 
Translated  out  of  French  into  English,  by  W.  Caxton.  Newly  cor- 
rected, with  the  English  much  amended.  By  William  Fiston.  Lon- 
don, Printed  dj  T/iomas  Creede.    1607.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank;  B — Tt  in  eights. 
From  Sir  William  Tite's  collection. 

■ The  Ancient  Historie  of  the  Destruction  of  Troy.    Divided 

into  HI.  Bookes.  The  I.  shewing  the  Founders,  and  foundation  of  the 
said  Citie  ....  The  H.  how  it  was  re-edified,  and  how  Hercules 
slew  K.  Laomedon  .  .  .  The  HI.  How  Priamus,  Son  of  King  Laome- 
don,  rebuilded  Troy  againe  ....  Also  mentioning  the  Rising  and 
flourishing  of  divers  Kings  and  Kingdomes  ....  Translated  out  of 
French  into  English  by  W.  Caxton.  The  Sixth  Edition,  now  newly 
Corrected  and  amended.  London,  Printed  by  B.  Alsop  and  T.  Faivcet, 
diL'elling  in  Gnibstreet,  neere  the  lower  Puvipe.    1636.   4to.   Black  letter. 

*,  4  leaves  ;  A — Nn  2  in  eights. 
The  Gordonstoim  and  Inglis  copy. 

LEGENDS  CATHOLIC/E  A  Lytle  Boke  of  Seyntlie  Gestes. 
Edinburgh.     1840.    Sm.sqr.8vo.    BR.  M. 

Pp.  xvi.  +  257,  besides  a  leaf  containing  errata,  &c.,  after  the  preface. 

The  legends  in  this  volume  were  printed  from  the  Auchinleck  MS.,  under  the 
editorship  of  Mr.  TumbuU.  On  the  back  of  the  title  it  is  said,  "  Forty  Copies 
Printed." 


832        LEGENDE  DES  FLAMENS-LEIGHTON. 

LEGENDE  DES  FLAMENS.  La  legede  des  flames,  artisiens 
et  haynuyers.  Ou  autremet  leur  cronique  abregee  En  laquelle  sont 
contenues  plusieurs  hystoires  de  Frace  Angleterre  &  Allemaigne. 
Auecqs  les  genealogies  et  descentes  des  roys  de  Naples  et  Sicille  qui 
y  ont  regne  en  quatre  nations  iusques  a  present  Ascauoir  Normans, 
Allemans,  Francois  &  Arragonoys.  Mesmement  des  visc5tes,  princes 
&  Ducz  de  Myllan  qui  ont  regne  iusques  a  present  Et  le  Droict  et 
tiltre  que  les  treschrestiens  roys  de  France  ont,  tant  au  royaulme  et 
courone  de  Naples  &  Sicile  que  au  duche  et  estat  de  Millan.  Cum 
puillegio.  C  Ilz  se  vendent  a  Paris  en  la  rue  sainct  Jacques  a  lenseignc 
sainct  Claude  pres  les  Maturins.  [Colophon.]  Cy  fine  ce present  traictc 
intitule  la  Icgende  des  Flamens  noniiellement  imprime  a  Paris,  et  a  este 
acheiie  le.  xxf.  ioiir  de  May  mil  cinq  cens.  xxii.    4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

a  6  leaves  ;  b — n  in  eights  and  fours  alternately  ;  o — r  in  fours  and  eights 
alternately  ;  s,  6  leaves.    Following  sig.  p,  is  pp,  6  leaves. 

LEGH,  Gerard.  The  Accedens  of  Armory.  [Colophon.]  Im- 
prynted  at  London  in  fletcstrcte  within  temple  Barre  at  the  signe  of  the 
handSf  star  re.  by  Ry  chard  Tottel,  An.  1568.     4to.    R. 

A— S  in  eights.  With  a  large  folding  woodcut  and  numerous  coats  of  arms  and 
other  cuts  on  the  text. 

Second  edition,  with  the  introductory  epistle  by  Richard  Argall  of  the  Inner 
Temple,  as  in  that  of  1 562.  The  title  is  a  large  woodcut,  with  the  words  given 
above  on  a  tablet  near  the  foot.  On  the  back  are  some  lines  addressed  by  the 
author  to  the  reader,  admonishing  him  as  to  the  way  in  which  he  should  study  the 
treatise. 

LEHENRECHT.  Die  Lehenrecht  verteutscht,  auch  ynn  ein  newe 
vn  richtige  ordnung  derTitel  gesatzt  vnd  zusamen  bracht.  Mit  erkle- 
rung  vn  auszlegung  etlicher  Lateinischer  vnd  Welscher  wortt.  wellich 
nit  fiiglich  iris  teutsch  haben  verendert  miigen  warden.  Angspnrg durch 
Heynrich  Steyner.    1530.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  folios  1-129. 

LEIGHTON,  Alexander.  An  Appeal  To  the  Parliament :  or 
Sions  Plea  against  the  Prelacie.  The  summe  whereofif  is  delivered  in 
a  Decade  of  Positions.  In  the  handling  whereofif,  the  Lord  Bishops, 
and  their  appurtenances  are  manifestlie  proved,  both  by  divine  and 
humane  Lawes,  to  be  intruders  vpon  the  Priviledges  of  Christ,  of  the 
King,  and  of  the  Common-weal :  And  therefore  vpon  good  evidence 
given,  she  hartelie  desireth  a  Judgement  and  execution.  [Several 
quotations.]  Printed  [at  London]  in  the  year  ^  moneth  wherein 
Rocltell  was  lost.    [5^/.  1628.]    4to.    R. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  B— XX  in  fours.  With  an  emblematical  en- 
graving on  the  back  of  the  title  and  on  the  recto  of  the  second  leaf. 


LEIGHTON—LELAND.  833 

LEIGHTON,  Sir  William.  Vertve  Trivmphant,  Or,  A  Lively 
Description  of  the  Fovre  Vertves  Cardinall :  Dedicated  to  the  Kings 
Maiestie.  Prima  canenda  venit  .  .  .  At  London,  Printed  by  Melchise- 
dech  Bradwood,  for  Matthew  Lo'iv?ies.     1603.     4to. 

A— H  i  in  fours,  besides  2  leaves  of  dedication  after  the  title,  marked  f .  In 
six-line  stanzas. 

From  the  collections  of  Sir  Francis  Freeling  and  Mr.  Corser.  See  "  Bibliotheca 
Anglo-Poetica,"  No.  427. 

LELAND,  John.  Assertio  inclytissimi  Arturij  Regis  Britanniae. 
loanne  Lelando  Antiquario  autore.  [Here  follow  eight  lines  of 
Latin  verse  Ad  candidos  lectores.'\  Londini.  Anno  1544.  [Colo- 
phon.]   Impressuni  Lotidini  apiid  loannem  Herford.    Anni  1^44.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours. 

A  Learned  and  True  Assertion  of  the  original,  Life,  Actes, 

and  death  of  the  most  Noble,  Valiant,  and  Renoumed  Prince  Ar- 
thure.  King  of  great  Brittaine.  Who  succeeding  his  father  Vther  Pen- 
dragon,  and  right  nobly  gouerning  this  Land  sixe  and  twentie  yeares, 
then  dyed  of  a  mortall  wounde  receyued  in  battell,  together  with  vic- 
tory ouer  his  enemies.  As  appeareth  Cap.  9.  And  was  buried  at  Glas- 
tenbury.  Cap.  12.  An.  543.  Collected  and  written  of  late  yeares  in 
lattin,  by  the  learned  English  Antiquarie  of  worthy  memory  lohn 
Leyland.  Newly  translated  into  English  by  Richard  Robinson  Citizen 
of  London.  Anno.  Domini.  1582.  London  Imprinted  by  lohn  Wolfe, 
dwelling  in  Distaffe  Lane,  oner  against  the  Sigtie  of  tJie  Castell.  1582. 
4to.    Black  letter.    R. 

A — M  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

KYKNEION  ASMA.  Cygnea  cantio.  Autore  loanne  Le- 
lando Antiqvario.  Londini.  M.D.  XLV.  Commentarii  in  Cygneam 
Cantionem  Indices  BritannicjE  antiquitatis  locupletissimi.  Autore 
loanne  Lelando  Antiquario \_Sine  tdld  notd.]    4to. 

The  Cygnea  Cantio  has  A  six  leaves,  B — E  in  fours.  The  Commentarius,  A — P 
in  fours.  The  last  leaf  has  the  errata  to  both  pieces,  so  that  they  were  evidently 
printed  together.    They  are  assigned  by  Herbert  to  the  press  of  Reynold  Wolfe. 

ErK£2MI0N  Trif  Eifww.    Laudatto  pacis  ....  Londini  anno 


M.D.  XL  VL  [Colophon.]  Londini.  Apud  Reynerum  Wolfium  in 
ccemeterio  Paulino,  ad  ceneum  serpentem.  Anno  M.D. XL  VI.  mcnse 
Augusta.    4to. 

Eight  leaves. 

The  laboryouse  Journey  &   serche  of  Johan  Leylande,  for 


Englandes  Antiquitees,  geuen  of  hym  as  a  newe  yeares  gyfte  to  Kynge 
Henry  the  viii.  in  the.  xxxvii.  yeare  of  his  Reygne,  with  declaracyons 
enlarged  :  by  Johan  Bale.    [Quotation  from  2  Macha.  ii.]    To  be  sold 

5  D 


834  LELAND— LENOX. 

in  fletestretc  at  the  signe  of  the  Croiine  next  vnto  the  ?vhyte  Ffry ears  gate. 
[Colophon.]  Emprented  at  London  by  Johan  Bale,  Anno,  M.  D.  XLIX. 
Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A— H  in  eights  ;  the  last  leaf  blank. 

LELAND,  John.  Leland's  Itinerary,  and  Collectanea  de  rebus 
Anglicis.    See  Hearnc. 

LE  MOYNE,  PasqUIER.  Le  couronnement  du  roy  Frangois  pre- 
mier de  ce  noni  voyage  &  conqueste  de  la  duche  de  millan,  victoire  et 
repulsion  des  exurpateurs  dicelle  auec  plusie"  singularitez  des  eglises, 
couuens,  villes,  chasteaulx  et  fortteresses  dicelle  duche  Fais  Ian  mil 
cinq  ces  et  quinze,  cueillies  &  rediges  p  le  moyne  sas  froc.    [Colophon.] 

Cy  finissent  les  couronnement  du  Roy  Francois Et  a  este  achcue 

de  imprimcr  le.  xx".  iour  de  scptcmbre.  Mil  cinq  cans  et  vingt.  Pour 
Gilles  couteati  imprimeur  dentoiirdt  a  Paris.  ....  4to.   Black  letter. 

R.  M. 

a,  4  leaves ;  b— n  in  eights ;  o,  4  leaves. 

LENET.  Memoires  de  Monsieur  L[enet]  Conseiller  d'Etat :  con- 
tenant  L'Histoire  des  Guerres  Civiles  des  annees  1649.  &  suivantes  ; 
principalement  celles  de  Guienne  &  autres  Provinces  \s.  /.]  1729. 
2  vols.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

LE  NEVE,  John.  Monumenta  Anglicana :  Being  Inscriptions 
on  the  Monuments  of  several  Eminent  Persons  Deceased  in  or  since 
the  Year  1600.  to  the  end  of  the  Year  1649.  Deduced  into  a  Series  of 
Timeby  way  of  Annals  .  .  .  .London.    1719.  5  vols.  8vo.  Large  paper. 

The  Lives  and  Characters,  Deaths,  Burials,  and  Epitaphs 

...  of  all  the  Protestant  Bishops  of  the  Church  of  England  since  the 
Reformation,  as  settled  by  Queen  Elizabeth  Anno  Dom.  1559.  Col- 
lected from  their  several  Registers,  Wills  in  the  Prerogative  Offices 
....  London  ....  1720.    2  vols.    8vo.    Large  paper. 

[LENOIR,  Jean.]  Les  Nouvelles  Lumieres  Politiques  pour  le 
gouvcrnement  de  I'Eglise,  ou  I'Evangile  nouveau  du  Cardinal  Pala- 
vicin  revele  par  lui  dans  son  Histoire  du  Concile  de  Trente.  A  Cologne. 
1687.    Sm.  8vo.    Tlie  edges  uncut.    G.  M. 

LENOX,  Duke  of.  The  Dvke  of  Lenox  his  Honovrable  and 
Worthy  Speech  to  the  High  Court  of  Parliament  in  Scotland.  Octob. 
28.  1641.  Concerning  the  Kings  Majesties  returne  into  England.  And 
a  certaine  affront  which  was  given  to  himselfe,  and  the  Marquisse 
Hamilton  When  they  first  came  to  take  their  places  in  the  Parliament 
House.    London,  Printed  for  John  Thomas.    1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 


L  EN  TON.  835 

LENTON,  Francis.  The  Yovng  Gallants  Whirligigg :  or  Yov-ths 
Reakes.  Demonstrating  the  inordinate  affections,  absurd  actions,  and 
profuse  expences,  of  vnbridled  and  affectated  Youth  :  With  their  extra- 
vagant courses,  and  preposterous  progressions  and  aversions.  Together 
with  The  too  often  deare  bought  experience,  and  the  rare,  or  too  late 
regression  and  reclamation  of  most  of  them  from  their  habituall  ill 
customes,  and  vnqualified  manners.  Vsitatuiii  pcccatuin,pcccatii7)i  nofi 
vidctur.  Compiled  and  written  by  F.  L.  Nemo  Iceditur  nisi  d  seipso. 
Ergo:  Iain  vitnlos  hortare,  viain^  insiste  domandi,  Diini  faciles  anitiii 
juvamm  ;  dummobiliscetas.  Virg.  London,  Printed  by  M.  F.  for  Robert 
Bostocke,  at  tlie  signe  oft/ie  Kings  head  in  Pauls  Church-yard.   1 629.  4to. 

A — D  3  in  fours.     In  verse. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Julius  C»sar,  Knight.  The  poem  is  reprinted  entire  in  the 
Shakespeare  Societ/s  papers.  Of  the  original  only  three  copies  are  said  to  be 
known.  The  present,  formerly  Sir  Robert  Gordon's,  Sir  F.  Freeling's,  and  Mr. 
Corser's,  has  on  a  flyleaf  the  following  memoranda  by  Freeling :  "  Mr.  Park,  in 
'  Restituta,'  vol.  iii.,  p.  508,  says  a  copy  of  this  tract  is  preserved  in  the  library  of  Sion 
College,  which  possibly  may  be  unique.  This  copy  was  purchased  at  the  sale  of 
the  Gordonstoun  library,  and  there  was  another  in  Mr.  Bindley's  collection.  Sir 
Aston  Cokain  has  several  Poems  and  Anagrams  to  his  very  good  friend  Mr.  Francis 
Lenton.     See  p.  161,  et  scqq.  of  his  '  Poems,'  1662." 

The   Innes  of  Court   Anagrammatist :    Or,   The   Masqvers 

masqued  in  Anagrammes.  Expressed  in  Epigramique  lines,  upon 
their  severall  Names,  set  downe  in  the  ne.xt  Page.  Composed  by 
Francis  Lenton  Gent,  one  of  Her  Majesties  Poets.  Plectra  gerens 
Erato  saltat  pcde,  Carmine  vultu.  London:  Printed  for  William  Lashe. 
1634.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours,  F  4  blank. 

Inscribed  to  the  Four  Inns  of  Court.  None  of  the  persons  celebrated  here  seem 
to  be  otherwise  known.  This  tract  is  in  a  volimie  formerly  belonging  to  the  library 
of  Charles  II, 

Lentons  Leisvres  Described,  in  divers  Moderne  Characters. 

By  Francis  Lenton,  Her  Maiesties  Poet.  Dum  vivo  video,  Et  Bum 
video  rideo.    Imprinted  at  London.    1636.    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  6  leaves,  title  on  A  2 ;  B — H  4  in  twelves,  H  4  blank. 

The  first  edition  of  this  httle  book  was  in  1631,  and  it  was  reprinted  in  1639  and 
1663.  The  present  is  believed  to  be  the  only  copy  which  has  occurred  of  the  im- 
pression of  1636.     Dedicated  to  Queen  Henrietta  Maria. 

Great  Britains  Beauties,  Or,  The  Female  Glory ;  Epitomized, 


In  Encomiastick  Anagramms,  and  Acrostiches,  Upon  the  highly 
honoured  Names  of  the  Oueenes  most  gracious  Majestic,  and  the  Gal- 
lant Lady-Masquers  in  her  Graces  glorious  Grand-Masque.  Presented 
at  White-Hall  on  Shrove-Tuesday  at  night,  by  the  Queenes  Majestic 
and  her  Ladies.    With  Disticks,  and  Illustrations,  upon  their  severall 


836  LENTON—LEO  X. 

Anagramms,  being  in  number  fifteene,  whose  Names  ensue  in  order 
on  the  next  side.    Tubhshed  by  Authoritie. 

Plectra  germs  Erato,  saltat  pede.  Carmine  viiltu. 

The  pleasant  Muse  Erato,  shee  beguiles 

The  time,  in  Revels,  Dancing,  Songs  and  Smiles. 

Framed,  and  formed,  by  the  humble  Pen  of  Francis  Lenton,the  Queenes 
Poet.  London,  Printed  by  Marmaduke  Parsons,  for  lames  Bccket,  at 
the  Inner  Temple  Gate.    1638.    4to.    R.  M. 

A— E  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

This  curious  production  is  dedicated  in  florid  terms  to  the  Queen  and  the  Ladies 
of  the  Court  in  two  separate  inscriptions,  both  in  verse.  The  masque  referred 
to  in  the  title  appears  to  have  been  Davenant's  "  Salmacida  Spolia,"  1638.  From 
Mr.  Corser's  collection.  The  only  other  copy  known  is  the  one  purchased  by 
Malone  at  Farmer's  sale  in  1798. 

LENTON,  Francis.  Queene  Esters  Haliluiahs  and  Hamans 
Madrigalls  expressed  and  Illustrated  in  a  Sacred  Poeme.  With  the 
Translation  of  the  83  Psalme  wherein  Dauid  curseth  the  Enimyes  of  the 
true  Church :  Composed  By  Fra :  Lenton  Gent :  the  Queenes  Poet. 
[Quotation  from  Psalm  125.  ver.  3.]  SoH  Gloria  Deo  :  1637  4to.    BL.  M. 

MS.  neatly  written  on  eighty-seven  leaves,  including  the  title  and  preliminary 
matter. 

With  poetical  dedication  to  Sir  Anthony  and  Lady  Cage,  upon  whose  names  there 
are  acrostics,  as  well  as  some  verses  on  their  coats  of  arms.  This  is  an  unpublished 
MS.,  and  it  appears  that  at  least  two  other  copies  exist,  both  of  which  were  sold 
among  Mr.  Corser's  books.  This  has  every  appearance  of  being  in  the  author's 
autograph. 

LENTULO,  SCIPIO.  La  Grammatica  di  M.  Scipio  Lentvlo  .... 
An  Italian  Grammer  written  in  Latin  by  Scipio  Lentulo  a  Nea- 
politane :  And  turned  into  Englishe  by  Henry  Granthan.  Imprinted 
at  London  by  Thomas  Vautrollier  dwelling  in  the  Blackefriers.  1587. 
Sm.  8vo.    o.  M. 

A — K  in  eights. 

Dedicated  by  the  translator,  under  date  of  Dec.  4,  1574,  "To  the  Right  Vertvovs 
Mystres  Mary  and  Mysres  Francys  Berkeley  daughters  to  the  Right  honorable 
Henry  Lord  Berkeley."  The  first  edition  was  in  1 575.  It  seems  likely  that  Granthan, 
and  not  Humphrey  Gifford,  as  sometimes  stated,  was  the  translator  of  Boccaccio's 
"Philocopo,"  printed  four  times  between  1567  and  1587.  From  Mr.  IngUs's 
collection. 

LEO  X.    Bulla  contra  errores  Martini  Lutheri  &  sequacium.    Im- 
pressum  Roma  per  Jacobum  Mazochium  de  mandato  S.  D.  N.  Papce. 
[1520.]    4to.     The  edges  uncut. 
The  original  edition  of  the  famous  Bull  against  Martin  Luther  and  his  followers. 


LEO—LE  ROUX.  837 

LEO,  B.  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen.  Pious  Instructions,  in  Meeter. 
Fitted  to  the  Weaker  Capacities.  Thy  Iiistificatmts  were  sung  by  me, 
in  the  place  of  my  Peregrination.  Ps.  118,  v.  54.  Printed  in  the  year 
1693.     With  licence  of  Siiperioiirs.    8vo. 

Title,  advertisement,  preface,  and  table,  4  leaves ;  A — Rr  ij  in  fours. 

From  the  library  of  Sir  W.  Tite.  There  are  throughout  the  volume  MS.  cor- 
rections or  alterations  in  a  contemporary  hand,  perhaps  the  autograph  of  the 
author. 

LEON,  Jean.  Historiale  Description  de  I'Afriqve,  tierce  partie  dv 
Monde,  Contenant  ses  Royaumes,  Regions,  Viles,  Cites,  Cliateaux  &  for- 
teresses  :  lies,  Fleuues,  Animaux,  tant  aquatiques,  que  terrestres  :  cou- 
tumes,  loix,  religion  et  fagon  de  faire  des  habitas,  auec  pourtraits  de 
leurs  habis:  ensemble  autres  choses  memorables,  &  singulieres  nou- 

ueautes : Plus,  Cinq  Nauigations  au  pais  des  Noirs,  auec  les 

discours  sur  icelles A  Lyon,  par  lean  Temporal.    1556.    2  vols. 

Folio.     Woodcuts. 

Vol.  i.  Title  and  preliminaries,  including  a  map,  20  leaves  ;  pp.  1-495 !  index, 
1 1  leaves,  last  leaf  blank.  Vol.  ii.  Title  and  preliminaries,  including  a  map, 
10  leaves  ;  pp.  1-70  ;  then  a  new  set  of  signatures  and  fresh  pagination,  1-160,  fol- 
lowed by  another  title,  "  Demi^re  Partie  dv  second  Tome  de  I'Afrique,"  7  leaves 
of  table  and  pp.  1-307. 

LEONICO,  Angelo.     L'Amore   di  Trolio,  et  Griseida,   ove  si 

tratta  in  bvona  parte  la  guerra  di  Troia In  Veneiia  per  Pavolo 

Gerardo.    1553.    4to.     Woodcuts.    O.  M. 

A — N  in  fours  ;  O,  6  leaves,  the  last  blank. 

LE  QUESNE,  Juan.  Los  Psalmos  de  David.  Metrificados  en 
lengua  Castellana  Por  luan  le  Quesne.  Conforme  a  la  traducion  ver- 
dadera  del  texto  hebreo.  i.  Corinthios  xiiii.  Orare  con  el  espiritu, 
mas  orare  tambien  con  entedimiento :  cantare  con  el  espiritu,  mas  can- 
tare  tambien  con  entendimiento.    [S.  /.]    M.DC.  VI.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  prologue,  4  leaves ;  sigs.  A — K  in  eights. 

This  book  appears  to  be  altogether  undescribed  by  bibliographers.  It  contains 
metrical  paraphrases  of  sixty-eight  of  David's  Psalms,  followed  by  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, and  the  Song  of  Simeon,  also  in  verse.  It  is  probable  that  the  author 
concealed  under  the  name  of  Juan  le  Quesne  is  in  reality  Juan  Enzina,  who  was 
burned  at  Brussels  in  1546,  and  some  of  whose  books  were  published  under  the 
hellenized  name  of  Dryander.  In  any  case,  it  is  curious  as  showing  that  Spanish 
Protestants  were  still  sufficiently  numerous  to  make  it  worth  while  to  print  books 
for  them  at  the  beginning  of  the  17th  century. 

LE  ROUX  DE  LINCY.  Le  livre  des  Proverbes  Frangais  pr^- 
c^de  de  recherches  historiques  sur  les  Proverbes  Francjais  et  leur  em- 
ploi  dans  la  littdrature  du  Moyen  Age  et  de  la  Renaissance.  Paris 
1859.    2  vols.    Sm.  8vo.    Thick  paper. 


838  LE   ROY—LE   SAGE. 

LE  ROY,  LOYS.  Des  differens  et  troubles  advenans  entre  les 
hommcs  par  la  diversity  des  opinions  en  la  Religion.  A  Paris,  de 
Hviprimcric  de  Frederic  Morel.    1562.    Sm.  8vo. 

Nineteen  leaves. 

LERY,  Jean  de.  Histoire  d'vn  Voyage  fait  en  la  Terre  dv  Bresil, 
avtrement  dite  Amerique.  Contenant  la  nauigation,  &  choses  remar- 
quables,  veues  sur  mer  par  I'aucteur :  Le  comportement  de  Villegagnon, 
en  ce  pais  li.  Les  meurs  &  fagons  de  viure  estranges  des  Sauuages 
Ameriquains:  auecvn  colloque  de  leur  langage.  Ensemble  la  descrip- 
tion de  plusieurs  Animaux,  Arbres,  Herbes  &  autres  choses  singulieres, 

&  du  tout  inconnues  par  dega [5.  Z.]    Pour  Antoine  Chuppin. 

1578.    Sm.  8vo.    Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preface,  24  leaves  ;  A— Dd  4  in  eights  ;  Ee,  7  leaves. 

Historia  Navigationis  in  Brasiliam  quae  et  America  dicitur. 

Qua  describitvr  avthoris  nauigatio,  quseque  in  mari  vidit  memoriae 
prodenda  :  Villagagnonis  in  America  gesta :  Brasiliensium  victus  & 
mores,  k  nostris  admodum  alieni,  cum  eorum  linguae  dialogo :  ani- 
malia  etiam,  arbores,  atque  herbs,  reliquaque  singularia  &  nobis 
penitus  incognita.  A  Joanne  Lerio  Bvrgundo  Gallice  scripta.  Nunc 
vero  primum  Latinitate  donata,  &  variis  figuris  illustrata.  Secunda 
editio.     Geneves.  Apiid  hcsredes  Eiistatliij   Vignon.    cij  i3  xciiii.    Svo. 

Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves,  a — z  and  A — C  in  eights.  Facing  p.  78  is  a 
folding  woodcut. 

LE  SAGE,  Alain-Ren^.  Histoire  de  Gil  Bias  de  Santillane. 
Demiere  Edition  revue,  &  corrigee.  Paris,  par  les  Libraires  Associds. 
1747.    4  vols.    Sm.  Svo.    R.  M. 

Vol.  i.  Half  title,  title,  "  D(£claration  de  I'auteur,"  "  Gil  Bias  au  lecteur,"  together, 
4  leaves  ;  text,  A — LI  in  eights  and  fours  alternately. 

Vol.  ii.  Half  title  and  title,  2  leaves  ;  A — Ff  5  in  eights  and  fours  alternately. 

Vol.  iii.  Half  title  and  title,  2  leaves  ;  A — Ii  6  in  eights  and  fours  alternately. 

Vol.  iv.  Preliminaries  the  same  as  in  vol.  i.  ;  A — Hh  in  eights  and  fours  alter- 
nately ;  Ii  ("Approbation"),  2  leaves. 

Plates. — Vol.  i.  To  face  pages  i,  64,  119,  148,  168,  300,  328,  380.  Vol.  ii.  Pp.  12, 
28,  144,  157,  175,  179,  197,  304,  338.  Vol.  iii.  Pp.  10,  20,  S3,  108,  142,  182,  29s,  317. 
Vol.  iv.  Pp.  I,  18,  33,  74,  94,  198,  350. 

The  first  complete  edition  of  this  celebrated  work,  published  the  year  of  the 
author's  death,  he  being  then  in  his  eightieth  year.  M.  Brunet  says  of  it  :  "  Cette 
(Edition,  devenue  peu  commune,  prdsente  de  nombreuses  corrections  et  des  aug- 
mentations considdrables  de  I'auteur,  lesquelles  ne  forment  gu&re  moins  d'une  cen- 
taine  de  pages  ;  elle  doit  done  etre  regardde  comme  la  premiere  bonne  Edition  du 
chef-d'ceuvre  de  Le  Sage." 

The  Adventures  of  Gil  Bias  of  Santillane.    Translated,  from 


the  French  of  Le  Sage,  by  T.  Smollett.    With  Elegant  Engravings. 
London 1802.    3  vols.    8vo.    Large  paper.    R.  M. 


LESCARBOT—LESL^US.  839 

LESCARBOT,  Marc.  Histoire  de  la  Novvelle  France  Contenant 
les  navigations,  decouvertes,  &  habitations  faites  par  les  Frangois  6s 
Indes  Occidentales  &  Nouvelle-France  souz  I'avceu  &  authority  de  noz 
Rois  Tres-Chretiens,  &  les  diverses  fortunes  d'iceux  en  I'execution  de 
ces  choses,  depuis  cent  ans  jusques  a  hui.  En  quoy  est  comprise  I'His- 
toire  Morale,  Naturele,  &  Geographique  de  ladite  province :  Avec  les 
Tables  &  Figures  d'icelle A  Paris  Chez  Jean  Milot,  tenant  sa  bou- 
tique sur  les  degree  de  la  grand'  salle  dii  Palais.    1609.    Les  Mvses  de 

la  Nowelle  France Paris.    Chez  J.  Millot 1609.    Sm. 

8vo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  24  leaves.  Sig.  A  has  10  leaves,  pages  9,  and  10,  and 
10  ii  being  marked  on  one  side  only,  so  that  pp.  1-16  have  10  leaves  instead  of  8  ; 
B — Kkk  iv  in  eights  ;  "  Les  Muses  de  la  Nouvelle  France,"  A — E  iv  in  eights, 
including  title  and  dedication. 

Plates. — I.  Figure  du  port  de  Ganabara,  &c.,  p.  206.  2.  Figure  de  la  Terra 
Neuve,  &c.,  p.  236.     3.  Figure  du  Port  Royal,  p.  4S0. 

Nova  Francia :  Or  the  Description   of   that   part   of  New 


France,  which  is  one  continent  with  Virginia.  Described  in  the  three 
late  Voyages  and  Plantation  made  by  Monsieur  de  Monts,  Monsieur 
du  Pont-Grau6,  and  Monsieur  de  Foutrincourt,  into  the  countries  called 
by  the  French  men  La  Cadie,  lying  to  the  Southwest  of  Cape  Breton. 
Together  with  an  excellent  seuerall  Treatie  of  all  the  commodities  of 
the  said  countries,  and  maners  of  the  naturall  inhabitants  of  the  same. 
Translated  out  of  French  into  English  by  P.  E.  Londini,  Ivipensis 
Geoi'gii  Bishop.    1609.    4to.    R.  M. 

Title,  I  leaf;  Hf  and  flT,  4  leaves  each  ;  A— Oq  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  by  the  translator  "To  the  Bright  Starre  of  the  North,  Henry  Prince 
of  Great  Britaine,"  and  signed  "  Your  Highnesse  humblest  seruant  P.  Erondelle." 
The  translator  says  that  the  work  was  put  into  his  hands  by  Richard  Hakluyt, 
and  that  "  it  was  thought  needlesse  to  translate  more  then  concerneth  that  which 
adioyneth  to  Virginia." 

The  copy  in  the  Grenville  library  has  a  different  imprint,  and  is  without  date  ; 
in  other  respects  it  is  precisely  the  same.  The  map  mentioned  in  the  Grenville 
catalogue  does  not  belong  to  the  book,  but  is  taken  from  the  French  original  de- 
scribed above. 

LESL./EUS,  JOANNE.S,  Episc.  Rossensi.  De  Origine  Moribus,  et 
Rebus  Gestis  Scotorvm  libri  decern.  E  quibus  septem,  ueterum  Sco- 
torum  res  in  primis  memorabiles  contractius,  reliqui  uero  tres,  posteri- 
orum  Regum  ad  nostra  temporahistoriam,  quae  hucusque  desiderabatur, 
fusius  cxplicant.     Accessit  noua  &  accurata  Regionum  &  Insularum 

Scotise,  cum  vera  eiusdem  tabula  topographica,  descriptio Romce, 

in  Aedibus popidi  Romani.    1578.    4to.    R. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  20  leaves;  pp.  1-588;  inde.x,  16  leaves.  With  a 
folding  map. 


840  LESL^US—VESTRANGE. 

LESLi^iUS,  Joannes,  Episc.  Rossensi.  De  Titulo  et  lure  Se- 
renissimre  Principis  Mariae  Scotorum  Reginse,  quo  Regni  Angliae  suc- 
cessionem  sibi  iuste  vendicat,  libellus :  Simul  &  Regum  Anglig  d 
Gulielmo  Duce  Normandiy,  qui  Conquestor  dictus  est,  genealogiam 
&  successionis  seriem  in  tabula  descriptam :  Competitorum  quoque  a 
Lancastrensi  &  Eboracensi   familijs   descendentium   historiam  sum- 

matim  complectens Accessit  ad  Anglos  &  Scotos,  vt  qui  tem- 

poris  belloriimque  iniuria  iam  diu  distracti  fuerunt,  tandem  aliquando 
animis  consentiant,  &  perpetua  amicitia  in  vnum  coalescant,  Paraenesis. 
....  Rhemis,ExcHdebat  Joannes  Fognmis  siib  Leone.  1580.  4to.  A 
folding  plate  of  a  genealogical  tree.    O.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  eight  leaves,  two  of  which  are  blank  ;  A — B  and  D— P 
in  fours ;  C,  2  leaves ;  Q,  2  leaves,  the  second  of  which  is  blank ;  R,  4  leaves,  followed 
by  b,  4  leaves,  and  c,  2  leaves.  Then  a  new  title,  "  De  Illustrium  Foeminarvm  in 
Repub.  administranda,  ac  ferendis  legibus  authoritate,  Libellus,  .  .  .  Rhemis  .  .  . 
15S0."    A — G  iii  in  fours.    The  last  leaf  bears  the  errata  to  both  treatises. 

The  second  piece  in  the  volume  was  no  doubt  written  in  answer  to  John  Knox's 
book  entitled  "  The  first  blaste  of  the  trumpet  against  the  monstrous  regiment  of 
women." 

LESLIE,  Charles.  An  Answer  to  a  Book  Intituled,  The  State 
of  the  Protestants  in  Ireland  under  the  late  King  James's  Government ; 
in  which  their  Carriage  towards  him  is  justified,  and  the  absolute 
necessity  of  their  endeavouring  to  be  free'd  from  his  Government,  and 
of  submitting  to  their  present  Majesties,  is  demonstrated.  London, 
Printed  in  t/ie year  i6go.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours,  besides  a — e,  2  leaves  each  between  A — A  2  ;  G — XX,  2  leaves 
each  ;  appendix,  A — I,  2  leaves  each  ;  a  folded  leaf  with  a  list  of  ships,  &c. ;  L,  2 
leaves  ;  M,  4  leaves  ;  N — R,  2  leaves  each  ;  S,  3  leaves  ;  index,  [a]  and  [a  a], 
2  leaves  each. 

L'ESTOILE,  Pierre  de.  Journal  de  Henry  III.  Roy  de  France 
&  de  Pologne:  ou  Memoires  pour  servir  a  I'histoire  de  France.  A 
la  Lfaye,  \744.    5  vols.    8vo.    Portrait.    BR.  M. 

Journal   du   Regne    de    Henry  IV.    Roi   de  France   et  de 

Navarre.    A  la  Hay e.    1741.    4  vols.    8vo.    BR.  M. 

L'ESTRANGE,  Sir  Hamon.  Americans  no  lewes,  or  Improba- 
bilities that  the  Americans  are  of  that  race.  [Quotations  from  Deut. 
xxxii.  V.  26;  Rom.  xi.  25  ;  Rom.  xi.  11.]  London,  Printed  by  IV.  IV. 
for  Henry  Seile  over  against  St.  Dunstans  Church  in  Fleetstreet. 
1652.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — L  in  fours. 

This  was  a  reply  to  a  work  by  T.  Thorowgood,  entitled  "  lewes  in  America," 
printed  in  1650.  Ten  years  later  the  author  published  a  second  treatise  on  the 
subject,  but  he  takes  no  notice  of  L'Estrange's  work. 


L'E  STRANGE— LETTERS.  841 

L'ESTRANGE,  Sir  Roger.  Considerations  upon  a  Printed 
Sheet  entituled  the  Speech  Of  the  Late  Lord  Russel  to  the  Sheriffs : 
Together,  With  the  Paper  delivered  by  Him  to  Them,  at  the  Place  of 
Execution,  on  July  21. 1683.  The  Third  Impression.  London,  Printed 
by  T.  B.  for  Joanna  Brome  .  .   1683.    4to. 

A — G  2  in  fours. 

The  Reign  of  King  Charles :   An   History  Faithfully  and 

Impartially  delivered  and  disposed  into  Annals.  London,  Printed  by 
E.  C.  for  Ediuard  Dod  ajid  Henry  Seile  tlie  younger  .  .  .  .  1655. 
Folio. 

A — Mm  in  fours.    With  a  frontispiece  by  W.  Faithorne,  in  the  lower  centre  of 
which  is  a  portrait  of  Charles  I. 

LETTER.  A  Letter  sent  from  a  banished  Minister  of  lesus  Christ, 
vnto  the  faithfuU  Christian  flocke  in  England,  most  necessary  and  c6- 
fortable  to  al  such  as  be  burthened  with  persecucion  or  heauinesse  of 
mynde  for  the  Gospel  and  testimonye  of  lesu.  Lord  enercase  our  faith. 
lohn.  xvi.  In  tJie  worlds  you  shal  haue  affliccion,  but  be  of  good  cheare,  I 
hane  ouereome  the  world.  Ptyiited  at  Roane  by  Micliael  Wodde,  the .  iiii. 
of  lanuarye.    Anno  Do.  M.D.LIIII.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Eight  leaves. 

A  Letter  of  a  sad  Tragedy  by  Prince  Griffin  at  Sayton,  neere 


Chester :  And  his  sevcrall  attempts  against  the  Lady  Causcly.  And 
the  bloody  murther  for  which  he  is  fled  into  Scotland  :  And  A  Copy 
of  a  Letter  from  his  Excellency  Sir  Thomas  Fairfax.  With  A  Petition 
from  divers  Collonels  and  other  Officers  under  Major  Generall  Laug- 
horne,  to  the  House  of  Commons.  London,  Printed  for  A.  C.  and  A.  W. 
1648.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    With  a  cut  on  the  title. 

In  the  account  which  the  tract  gives  of  the  Prince's  overtures  to  Lady  Causely 
(or  Calversley)  it  is  said  :  "  —  hee  sent  unto  her,  to  her  husbands  house  at  Sayton 
on  the  Hill,  some  three  miles  from  Chester  City,  a  messenger,  with  a  Letter  and  a 
Token,  of  Silk  Stockings,  Ribbands,  Gloves,  and  other  Knacks." 

LETTERA  de  tutti  li  success! :  di  Roma  per  la  infirmita  del 
N.  S.  Li  ordini  celebrati  per  il  Reverendissimo  Collegio  delli  Signori 
Cardina.  &  particularmente  per  lo  Illustrissi.  Mon.  S.  de  Medici :  & 
le  puisione  del  Cosilio  delli  Romani :  per  la  guardia  &  assecuratione 
del  la  Citta  di  Roma,  &c.  M.CCCCC.XXXIHI.  Papa  Clemente.  VII. 
\Se71s'  alcuna  data.^    Sm.  4to. 

Six  leaves.    With  a  woodcut  on  the  title. 

LETTERS  from  the  great  Turke  lately  sent  vnto  the  holy  Father 
the  Pope  and  to  Radulphus  naming  himselfe  King  of  Hungarie,  and 

5  E 


842  LETTERS— LEVER. 

to  all  the  Kinges  and  Princes  of  Christendome.  Translated  out  of  the 
Hebrue  tongue  into  Italian,  and  out  of  the  Italian  into  French,  and 
now  into  English  out  of  the  French  coppie.  Maximus  honor,  maxima 
virtus.  Imprinted  at  London  by  lohn  Windct,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the 
white  Swan  in  Pauls  Churchyard.  1606.  4to. 
A — B  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

LETTERS  addressed  to  Thomas  Hearne,  M.A.  of  Edmund  Hall. 
Edited  by  Frederic  Ouvry.    London:  Privately  Printed.    1874.    4to. 
Now  first  printed  from  the  original  MSS.  in  the  Bodleian  among  Rawlinson's 
collections.     Presentation  copy  from  Mr.  Ouvry. 

LETTERS.  Two  Letters  of  Note.   The  one  from  the  Lord  Lezley 

to  the  Qveene :  The  other  of  a  late  overthrow  which  the  English 

gave    the    Rebells    in    Ireland.     London :    Printed   in   the    Yeare, 

1642.  4to. 

Four  leaves. 

LEVER,  Christopher.  Queene  Elizabeths  Teares  :  Or  her 
resolute  bearing  the  Christian  Crosse,  inflicted  on  her  by  the  perse- 
cuting hands  of  Steuen  Gardner,  Bishop  of  Winchester,  in  the  bloodie 
time  of  Queene  Marie.  Written  by  Christopher  Leuer.  Printed  at 
London  by  V.  S.for  Mattliew  Lownes,  dwelling  in  Poules  Churchy arde. 

1607.    4to. 

A — H  in  fours.     In  verse. 

The  Historic  of  the  Defendors  of  the  Catholiqve  Faith.  Dis- 
coursing the  state  of  Religion  in  England,  and  the  care  of  the  politique 
state  for  Religion  during  the  reignes  of  King  Henrry  8.  Edward.  6., 
Queene  Marie.  Elizabeth.  And  our  late  Souereigne,  King  lames.  .  .  . 
With  all.  Declaring  by  what  means  these  Kings  &  Queenes  haue 
obtained  this  Title,  Defendor  of  the  Faith,  and  wherein  they  haue  de- 
serued  it,  whereunto  are  added,  Obseruations  Divine.  Politiqve.  Morall. 
By  Christopher  Lever.  Nostrum  inCcelo  Ncgotiiim.  Printed  at  London 
by  G.  M.  for  Nicolas  Fusscll  and  Humplircy  Moseley,  and  are  to  be  sold 
in  Pauls  Churchyard  at  the  signe  of  the  Ball.    1627.    4to.    BL.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B— B  b  4  in  eights,  besides  the  frontispiece  by  Hulsius,  which  is 
an  unusually  brilliant  impression. 

LEVER,  Thomas.  A  Sermon  preached  at  Pauls  Crosse,  the  .xiiii. 
day  of  December,  by  Thomas  Leuer.  Anno.  M.D.L.  Cum  priuilegio 
ad  imprimendum  solum,  per  Septennium.  [Colophon.]  Imprynted  at 
London  by  J  lion  Day  divcllyng  oiicr  Aldcrsgate.  Cum  priuilegio,  &c. 
Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A— H  4  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  the  Lords  of  the  Privy  Council.  The  title  is  within  a  woodcut 
border.     From  Mr.  Maskell's  library. 


LEVERIDGE—LEWKENOR.  843 

LEVERIDGE,  Richard.  A  Collection  of  Songs,  With  the  Musick, 
by  Mr.  Leveridge.  London  Engrav'd  and  Printed  for  the  Ajithor  .  .  . 
1727.    2  vols.    8vo. 

Vol.  i.,  33  leaves,  besides  a  frontispiece ;  vol.  ii.,  33  leaves. 

LEVETT,  Christopher.  A  Voyage  into  New  England  Begun 
in  1623.  and  ended  in  1624.  Performed  by  Christopher  Levett, 
His  Maiestie's  Woodward  of  Somerset-shire,  and  one  of  the  Councell 
of  New-England.  Printed  at  London,  by  William  lones,  and  are  to  be 
sold  by  Edward  Brewster,  at  the  signe  of  the  Bible  in  Paules  Church- 
yard, 1628.  4to.  With  a  woodcut  of  a  ship  on  title,  described  as  Yorkes 
Bonanenture. 

A— F  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.  Dedicated  to  the  Duke  of  Buckingham  and  the 
rest  of  the  Council  for  New-England.  The  author  says  :  "  I  haue  omitted  many 
things  in  this  my  discourse,  which  I  conceived  to  be  Impertinent  at  this  time  for 
me  to  relate,  as  of  the  time  of  my  being  at  sea,  of  the  strange  Fish  which  wee 
there  saw,  some  with  wings  flying  aboue  the  water,  others  with  manes,  eares,  and 
heads,  and  chasing  one  another  with  open  mouths  like  store  horses  in  a  parke  .  .  .  ." 

LEWIN,  William.  The  Birds  of  Great  Britain,  with  their  Eggs 
accurately  figured.  London:  Pri7ited  for  the  Author  i'j?i()-g^.  7  vols. 
4to.    Printed  on  vellum.    Plates.    R.  M. 

This  is  one  of  the  four  copies  printed  on  veOum.  It  has  the  plates  beautifully 
painted  by  the  author. 

LEWIS,  John,  The  History  of  the  Life  and  Sufferings  of  the 
Reverend  and  Learned  John  Wiclif,  D.D.  .  .  .  Together  with  a  Col- 
lection of  Papers  and  Records  relating  to  the  said  History.  By  John 
Lewis,  M.A.  Minister  of  Meregate.  A  New  Edition,  corrected  and 
enlarged  by  the  Author.    Oxford.    1720.    8vo.    Portrait.    BL.  M. 

A  Complete  History  of  the  several  Translations  of  the  Holy 

Bible  ....  The  Second  Edition.  .  .  .  London.    1739.    Svo. 

The  Life  of  Dr.  John  Fisher,  Bishop  of  Rochester.     By  the 

Rev.  John  Lewis,  A.M.    With  an  Introduction  by  T.  Hudson  Turner. 
London  ...  1855.    2  vols.    Roy.  Svo.    Large  paper. 

LEWKENOR,  Sir  Edward.  Threnodia  in  obitvm  Edovardi 
Lewkenor  Equitis,  &  D.  Svsannae  Conlugis  charissimse.  Fvnerall 
Verses  vpon  the  death  of  the  right  Worshipfu'.l  Sir  Edward  Lewkenor 
Knight,  and  Madame  Svsan  his  Lady.  With  Deaths  Apologie,  and  a 
Reioynder  to  the  same.  Prov.  10,  8.  Memoria  lusti  bcncdicta.  London 
Printed  by  Arnold  Hatfield  for  Samuel  Macham  and  Matthew  Cooke, 
and  are  to  be  soldo  in  Pauls  Church-yard  at  the  signe  of  tlie  Tigers  head. 
1606.    4to.    BL.  M. 


844  LEYCESTER—LIBELLUS. 

A  2  leaves  ;  B— G  in  fours.    With  the  Lewkenor  arms  on  the  back  of  the  title. 

This  volume  consists  of  English  and  Latin  verses.  The  two  principal  poems, 
"  Death's  Apology  "  and  the  "  Rejoinder,"  are  anonymous.  The  others  are  mosUy 
by  obscure  writers. 

LEYCESTER,  John.  The  Civill  Warres  of  Ensland  briefly 
Related  from  His  Majesties  first  setting  up  His  Standard  1641.  To 
this  present  Personall  hopefull  Treaty.  With  the  lively  Effigies  and 
Eulotries  of  the  chief  Commanders,  who  like  Starres  in  their  courses 
havelfought  against  the  Romish  Sicera,  or  the  great  Scarlet  Whore, 
with  whom  the  Kings  of  the  Earth  have  committed  Fornication. 
Rev.  17,  2.  Together  with  the  distinct  appellations,  proper  motions, 
and  propitious  influences  of  these  memorable  Starres,  Chronologically 
related  from  Anno.  1641.  to  Anno.  1648.  Collected  by  John  Leycester. 
Ecce  triumphales  Anni  !  Qiioq,  Sydcra  fausta.  Lo7idon,  Printed  for 
John  Hancock,  at  the  first  shop  in  Popes-Head  Alley,  next  to  Corn-hill. 
1649.    Sm.  8vo.    Portraits.    R.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — M  4  in  eights.  The  twenty-one  portraits  count  in  the  sheets. 
This  is  a  reissue  of  Ricraft's  "  Survey  of  Englands  Champions,"  1647,  with  a 
short  appendix  (M — M  4).  Leycester's  dedication  "  To  the  Honour  and  Glory  of 
the  Infinite,  Immense,  and  Incomprehensible  Majesty  of  Jehovah,"  is  in  verse,  and 
is  subscribed,  "  By  Jo.  Ley.  A  small  crumme  of  mortality."  There  is  no  mention 
of  Ricraft  as  tlie  author,  but  as  Leycester  does  not  charge  the  latier  with  appro- 
priation of  his  labours,  it  is  to  be  inferred  that  Leycester  was  the  plagiarist. 

LEYEN  Regel  vnd  Pratic,  AUwegen  werend,  deren  sich  das 
gemeyn  volck,  taglicher  erfarung,  durchs  gantz  Jar  iiberhaltet.  \_0.  O. 
u.  y.]    4to. 

This  piece  consists  of  only  six  leaves.  It  consists  of  weather-wise  rules  and 
maxims  for  the  peasantry.  On  the  title  is  a  woodcut  showing  two  labourers  sowing 
seed  and  pruning  the  trees.  It  was  probably  printed  at  Zurich  about  1530,  but  is 
undescrihed  by  bibliographers. 

LHUYD,  Edward.  Archa^ologia  Britannica,  giving  some  account, 
additional  to  what  has  been  hitherto  publish'd,  of  the  Languages,  His- 
tories, and  Customs  of  Great  Britain.  From  Collections  and  Observa- 
tions in  Travels  through  Wales,  Cornwal,  Bas-Bretagne,  Ireland  and 
Scotland.  Vol.1.  Glossographye.  Oxford,  Printed  at  tlie  Theater  for 
the  Author.    1707.    Folio.    Large  paper.    R. 

a— e,  2  leaves  each;  A— K,  2  leaves  each;  *  A,  2  leaves;  no  sig.  L;  M  — 
Kklik,  2  leaves  each  ;  A — I  i,  2  leaves  each. 

Only  vol.  i.  appeared.    The  author  was  keeper  of  the  Ashmolean  Museum. 

LIBELLUS  de  modo  confitendi  et  penitendi.    [Colophon.]    Pre- 
sens  hoc  opus  de  modo  cdfitendi  %  penitedi  hnpssuin  Daiietrie  Attno  did 
M.  cccc.  Ixxx  via.     Vicesinia  Deceinbris.    4to.    o.  M. 
Twenty-six  leaves,  thirty-four  lines  to  the  page.   Campbell,  "  Annales,"  No.  1 1 35. 


L I  BEL  L  US—L IBER.  845 

LIBELLUS  de  venerabili  sacramento  et  valore  missarum.  [Sine 
ulld  noM.]    4to. 

Twenty-nine  leaves,  twenty-seven  lines  to  the  page. 

LIBELLUS  de  venerabili  sacramento  et  valore  missarum.  [Sine 
ulld  nutd7\    4to. 

A — D  in  eights  ;  twenty-eight  lines  to  the  page. 

LIBER  Diurnus  Romanorum  Pontificum  ex  Antiquissimo  Codice 
MS.  nunc  primum  in  lucem  editus.  Studio  Lucae  Holstenii.  Roma, 
typis  Josephi  Vannacci,  1658.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Pp.  231. 

The  most  ancient  document  of  the  kind  in  existence.  This  first  edition  was 
carefully  suppressed,  as  is  shown  in  the  following  extracts  from  writers  of  authority. 
Why  it  was  so  dealt  with  does  not  appear ;  and  it  is  worthy  of  note  that  Gamerius, 
in  the  preface  to  his  edition,  completely  ignores  it,  relying,  perhaps,  on  its  utter 
destruction.  When  suppressed  the  text  only  had  been  printed.  To  this  copy  is 
prefixed  a  title  which,  both  in  type  and  paper,  is  evidently  of  a  much  later  date. 

"  Post  mortem  itaque  Holstenii,  quum  recuperata  essent  folia  ilia,  quum  certum 
jam  esset,  nihil  ex  ilia  editione  extra  vagari  vel  alibi  e  stare  quam  Romje,  libri 
diurni  editio  omnino  suppressa  est  pnidenti  consilio,  ut  ait  Fr.  Marchesius,  juxta 
cujus  verba  explicandus  est  vir  clarissimus  Joannes  Mabillonius,  scribens  in  itinere 
suo  Italico,  diurni  impressionem  prohibitain  fttisse.  Impressio  siquidem  facta  fiiit  et 
perfecta ;  sed  non  emissa,  quia  suppressa." — 6".  Baluzii  Notes  in  P.  de  Marca  de 
Concordia  Sacerdotii  et  Imperii,  vol.  i.,  p.  6g. 

"  Illud  potius  observ'andum,  quod  ab  homlne  docto  accepimus  :  quern  cum  de 
libro  Diurno  Romanorum  Pontificum,  cujus  exemplar  invenire  magnopere  avebamus, 
interrogaremus,  ab  eo  nobis  responsum  est,  Hilarionem  Rancatum  Cisterciensem, 
hominem  studiosum  &  eruditum,  qui  Ughelli  preceptor  fuerat,  habuisse  antiquum 
ipsius  libri  exemplar,  quod  Allatius  commodato  cum  accepisset,  una  nocte  e.\- 
scripserit,  &  postea  pubhcare  voluisset  :  at  impressionem  prohibitam  fuisse.  Sed 
tamen  post  multam  inquisitionem  votis  potiti  sumus,  reperto  veteri  codice,  ex  quo 
Gameriana  editio  multis  in  locis  emendari,  novisque  aliquot  formulis  augeri  potest." 
— Mabillon,  Museum  Italicum,  i.,  p.  77. 

"  Fuerat  is  liber  primum  ab  Holstenio  Romanis  Josephi  Vannacii  praelis  com- 
missus  a  MDCLVIII.  in  8.  sed  ea  editio  plane  suppressa  fuit,  ut  nonnisi  in  se- 
lectis  quibusdam  Bibliothecis,  cujusmodi  est  Marefuschiana  et  Bibliotheca  CoUegii 
Romani,  olim  inveniretur.  Idem  opus  deinde  Joh.  Gamerius,  vir  eruditissimus  cum 
luculentis  adnotationibus,  ac  dissertationibus  Parisiis  a.  MDCLXXX.  in  4.  divul- 
gavit." — Zaccarice  Bibliotheca  Ritualis,  tom.  i.,  p.  177,  edit.  1776.  In  the  appendix 
Zaccaria  devotes  one  whole  dissertation  to  an  examination  of  Holstenius's  edition, 
and  a  comparative  collation  is  given  of  it  with  that  by  Gamerius. 

"  Avant  de  donner  la  liste  des  auteurs  liturgistes  de  I'epoque  qui  nous  occupe, 
nous  dirons  ici  quelques  mots  d'un  pr^cieux  monument  de  I'antiquitd  ecclesiastique 
dont  I'etude  est  ndcessaire  k  quiconque  veut  poss^der  en  leur  enlier  les  sources  de 
la  science  liturgique.  Ce  li\Te  est  connu  sous  le  nom  de  Liber  diurnus  Romanorum 
Pontificum.  L'histoire  de  sa  publication  tentde  plusieurs  fois  et  enfin  accomplie  en 
1680,  par  le  P.  Gamier,  jesuite,  est  longue  et  curieuse  ;  mais  eUe  nous  entrainerait 
trop  loin  de  notre  sujet.  Nous  dirons  done  seulement  que  le  Liber  diurnus  est  un 
recueil  des  fomiules  dont  les  Papes  se  servaient  durant  les  sixieme,  septieme  et 
huitieme  slides,  et  dans  lequel  on  trouve  les  rites  de  leur  ordination,  et  de  celles 


846  LIBER— LIBRO. 

des  Evfiques  d'ltalie  qui  dtaient  obliges  de  venir  recevoir  k  Rome  la  consecration 
dpiscopale,  les  professions  de  foi,  les  privilifges,  les  mandats,  les  concessions  et 
auties  actes  semblables."— Gz/^ri^z/fi';-,  Institutions  Liturgiques,  vol.  i.,  p.  182. 

LIBER  PRECUM.     Sm.  8vo.     In  tJie  original  stamped  German 

binding. 

MS.,  on  paper,  of  the  sixteenth  century,  illustrated  with  forty-four  engravings  on 
copper,  by  a  German  artist,  representing  subjects  in  the  life  and  passion  of  Christ. 

LIBER  VAGATORUM.  Derbetlerorden.  \O.O.u.J?[  4to.  R.M. 
Twelve  leaves.    The  above  title  is  over  a  woodcut  of  a  beggar  and  his  family  on 
the  tramp.   The  last  leaf  bears  only  eight  lines  on  the  recto,  while  the  verso  is  quite 
blank.     A  full  page  has  thirty-four  lines. 

—  [a  o.  0.  y.]  4to. 

Thirteen  leaves,  thirty-three  lines  to  a  full  page.  A  similar  woodcut  on  the 
title  to  that  in  the  edition  described  above. 

\P.  0.  0.  y.]    4to.    R.  M. 

Eleven  leaves,  with  thirty-four  lines  to  the  page.  A  similar  woodcut  on  the 
title. 

Getruckt  zit  Augspurg  Dnrch  Erhart  dglin.    \p.  J?^    4to. 

Twelve  leaves,  thirty-two  lines  to  the  page.     A  similar  woodcut  on  the  title. 

[LIBER  VAGATORUM.]  Von  der  falschen  Betler  biieberey,  Mit 
einerVorrede  Martini  Luther.  Und  hinden  an  ein  Rotwelsch  Vocabu- 
larius,  daraus  man  die  wortter,  so  in  dysem  biichlein  gebraucht,  ver- 
stehen  kan.    Wittemberg.    1528.    4to.    BL.  M. 

This  is  the  same  work  as  the  four  editions  described  above,  but,  as  indicated  in 
the  title,  it  is  preceded  by  a  preface  by  Martin  Luther  against  professed  beggars. 
The  "  Rotwelsch  "  vocabulary,  which  he  reprints  at  the  end  of  this  edition,  is  also 
found  in  the  earlier  ones.  It  appears  by  no  means  improbable  that  this  book  gave 
Harman  the  idea  of  his  "  Caveat  for  common  Cursetors." 

LIBRO,  de  la  Monteria  qve  mando  escrevir  el  mvy  alto  y  mvy 
poderoso  Rey  Don  Alonso  de  Castilla,  y  de  Leon,  Vltimo  deste 
nombre.  Acrecentado  por  Goncalo  Argote  de  Molina.  Ivipresso  en 
Sevilla,  por  Andrea  Pescioni.    A  fio  it,2,2.    Folio.    Woodcuts.    Y.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  "  Libro  de  la  Monteria,"  folios  1-91  ;  "  Dis- 
curso  de  Argote  de  Molina,"  folios  1-25  ;  and  a  leaf  bearing  the  printer's  device. 

"  Este  es  el  libro  mds  indispensable  en  una  biblioteca  de  obras  venatorias,  y  es 
sin  disputa  el  mds  raro,  tanto  por  lo  mui  buscados  que  son  los  ejemplares,  como 

por  no  haberse  reimpreso  en  el  espacio  de  casi  tres  siglos El  P.  Sarmiento 

en  las  Mcmorias  para  la  historia  de  la  pocsia  dijo  que  '  esta  obra  es  mui  litil  para 
la  geografia  de  Castilla  y  Leon,  segun  estaba  en  el  siglo  decimo  cuarto.  Ademas 
de  varias  reglas  que  pone  para  la  eleccion,  educacion  y  cuidado  de  los  perros  de 
caza,  se  contiene  una  individual  descripcion  de  todos  los  montes,  sitios  y  lugares 
propios  para  la  caza  mayor,  6  monteria.   En  el  mismo  Argote  se  hallari  un  catdlogo 


LIBRO—LICHTENBERGER.  847 

de  los  muchos  que  concurrieron  d.  la  composicion  de  este  libro,  que  ya  no  es  mui 
comun.'  Efectivamente,  es  obra  ran'sima  y  casi  imposible  el  lograr  un  ejemplar 
bien  conservado." — Salvd,  No.  2635. 

LIBRO  DI  MERCANTIE.  Questo  e,  el  libbro  die  tracta  di 
Mercatie  &  usanze  depaesi.  [Colophon.]  Impresso  in  Firenze  ap- 
petiiione  di  Ser  Piero  da  Pescia.    \s.  «.]     Sqr.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

a,  6  leaves,  and  a — t  in  fours. 

On  the  title  is  a  beautifully-designed  woodcut  of  the  interior  of  an  Italian  money- 
changer's office  or  merchant's  counting-house.  The  text  begins  on  the  seventh  leaf 
with  the  following  heading  :  "  Incomincia  il  Libro  di  tvcti  echotvmi.  Cambi. 
Monete.  pesi.  misure.  &  usanze  di  lectere  di  cabi.  e  termini  di  decte  lectere  che 
nepaesi  sichostuma  &  indiuerse  terre."    It  was  probably  printed  about  1500. 

[LICHTENBERGER,  JOH.]  pronosticatio  zu  theutsch.  Eyn 
schone  seltzen  vnd  vor  nyt  mer  gehorte  Pronosticatio  die  uszdruckt 
was  gliicks  vnd  vngelucks  die  grosse  Coniunction  vnd  die  Eclipsis 
gewest  synt  In  dyeszen  gegewirdigc  vnd  zukiinftigen  Jaren  beduten 
vnd  antzeygen  vnd  wirt  weren  etwan  vyl  iare.  \Ohne  Ort  oder  Jahr.l 
Folio.    Woodcuts,    er.  m. 

A — H  iii  in  sixes. 

This  edition  was  unknown  to  Panzer,  who,  speaking  of  the  edition  dated  1497, 
says  :  "  Diese  Ausgabe  von  Johann  Lichtenbergers  bekannten  Weissagungen  besitze 
ich  selbst.  Vermuthlich  ist  es  eben  diejenige,  welche  in  der  Neuen  Bibliothek  der 
schotun  Wissenschaft  B.  25.  .S".  26.  unter  dem  Jahre  1488  angefiihrt  wird." 

It  is  probable  that  this  is  the  edition  refen-ed  to,  though  it  has  not  the  date  ot 
1488  as  the  year  of  printing.  No  earlier  one  appears  to  be  described  by  biblio- 
graphers. 

The  volume  ends  on  the  verso  of  H  iii  with  a  large  cut  of  a  begging  friar,  who 
is  receiving  money  from  two  women.     Above  it  are  the  following  lines  : — 

"  Hie  sal  sien  eyn  lolhart  vnd  sal  sprechen  dyesze  wort. 
Bruder  Lolhart  byn  ich  genant 
den  frauwen  mach  ich  mich  gem  bekant. 
Das  ich  die  phennige  voa  yne  erkryege 
dar  vmb  ich  tzijtlich  smeichel  vnd  dryege." 

Pronosticatio  Latina  Anno.  Ixxxviii.  ad  magna  coiunctione 

Saturni  et  Jovis  q  fuit  ano.  Ixxxiiii.  ac  eclipsim  solis  ani  sequentis.  scz. 
Ixxxv.  cSfecta  ac  nQc  de  novo  emedata  Durabit  pluribus  annis  vt  infra 
in  tercio  folio  patebit.  \&Ioguntics.  1492.]  Folio.  Woodcuts.  The 
edges  unctit.    R.  M. 

Brunei  gives  only  thirty-two  leaves  to  this  volume,  but  this  copy  has  thirty-six, 
as  described  by  Hain,  and  as  the  signatures  are  A — F,  6  leaves  each,  the  copy  col- 
lated by  Brunet  must  have  been  incomplete.  At  the  end  occurs:  "  Emendatum 
denuo  presagium  hoccine  impressioni  quoq,  deditu  Anno  dfii  M.cccc.xcij  octava 
die  mensis  Junii  in  inclita  vrbe  Maguntina  cum  carminibus  Pindari  preclarissimi 
Poete  rem  omnem  rectissime  enuntiantibus  7  concludentibus." 

The  engravings  are  the  same  as  in  the  German  edition  without  date  or  place, 


848  LICIA— LILLY. 

described  above,  but  the  last  one,  which  represents  the  Lollard  and  two  women,  is 

omitted. 

Hain  describes  two  other  editions  of  this  Latin  version,  which  appear  to  be  of 

an  earhcr  date  than  the  present. 

LICIA,  or  Poemcs  of  Love,  in  Honour  of  the  admirable  and 
singular  vertues  of  his  Lady,  to  the  imitation  of  the  best  Latin  Poets, 
and  others.   Whcrcunto  is  added  the  Rising  to  the  Crowne  of  Richard 

the  third.  c~       ,       u- 

Aiixit  vmsanim  immeriim  Sapplio  adaita  musts. 

Fcclix  si  sceviis,  sic  voluisset  A  mor. 

{London,  1593.]    4to.    R. 

A — M  in  fours. 

Narcissus  Luttrell's  copy,  having  cost  him  sixpence  ;  afterwards  Mr.  Heber's 
and  Mr.  Corser's.  "  It  has  been  supposed  that  it  was  not  printed  for  sale,  but  from 
the  prefatory  matter  it  is  evident  this  was  not  the  case.  The  sonnets  are  obviously 
in  imitation  of  Daniel ;  to  these  succeed  miscellanies,  and  finally  a  poem  in  the  style 
of  the  '  Mirror  for  Magistrates.'  Some  extracts  from  it  are  given  in  '  Restituta ' 
iv.,  ^i^'—Bibl.  Heber., part  viii..  No.  1294. 

The  volume  is  ascribed  to  Giles  Fletcher  the  elder  by  Mr.  Joseph  Hunter,  in 
his  "New  Illustrations  of  Shakespeare,"  1845,  ii.,  77,  and  has  been  published  as 
the  work  of  that  author  by  Mr.  Grosart. 

The  title  is  enclosed  in  a  curious  woodcut  border.  There  is  a  separate  title  to 
the  poem  on  Richard  III.,  on  sig.  L.  The  epistle  to  Lady  Mollineux,  wife  to  Sir 
Richard  Mollineux,  Knight,  is  dated  "from  my  chamber,  Sept.  4,  1593,"  and  the 
Preface  to  the  Reader  is  dated  four  days  later.  The  author  attributes  the  pro- 
duction of  his  work  to  the  kindness  which  he  had  received  at  the  hands  of  Sir 
Richard  and  Lady  Mollineux,  and  one  or  two  other  friends  of  his  and  theirs. 

Not  more  than  three  copies  appear  to  be  known — one  in  the  Malone  col- 
lection; a  second,  formerly  Farmer's,  Steevens's,  and  Caldecott's ;  the  present, 
from  the  libraries  of  Heber  and  Corser. 

LILBURNE,  John.     A  Discovrse  Betwixt  Lieutenant  Colonel 

John  Lilburn  Close  Prisoner  in  the  Tower  of  London,  and  Mr.  Hugh 

Peter:  Upon  May  25.  1649.    Published  by  a  friend,  for  the  Publick 

benefit.     [Quotation  from  Matt.  vii.  15,  16.]     London,  Printed  in  the 

Yeer  1649.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

LI  LLO,  George.  Works.  With  some  Account  of  his  Life.  London, 
1775.    Sm.  8vo. 

LILLY,  William.  A  Prophecy  of  the  White  King :  and  Dreadful 
Dead-man  Explaned.  To  which  is  added  the  Prophecie  of  Sibylla 
Tibvrtina  and  Prediction  of  lohn  Kepler :  all  of  especiall  concernment 
for  these  Times.  By  William  Lilly  Student  in  Astrology  ....  Pub- 
lished according  to  Order.  London,  Printed  by  G.  M.  and  are  to  be 
sold  by  John  Slicrley  and  Thomas  Vndcrhill,  at  the  Golden  Pellican  in 
little  Brittaine,  and  Bible  in  Woodstrcet.    1644.    4to. 

A — D  in  fours. 


LILL  Y—L  INC  HE.  849 

At  the  end  occurs  a  piece  in  verse  which  is  not  mentioned  on  the  title :  "  A  Pro- 
phecie  found  in  a  wall,  in  a  Carthusian  house  in  the  County  of  Sommerset,  Anno 
Dom.  1548.  by  a  Mason,  a  Copy  whereof  was  taken  by  Richard  Mogg.    1623." 

LILLY,  William.  A  Collection  of  Ancient  and  Moderne  Pro- 
phesies Concerning  these  present  Times,  with  Modest  Observations 
thereon.  The  Nativities  of  Thomas  Earle  of  Strafford,  and  William 
Lavd  Late  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  His  Majesties  great  Favo- 
rites;  Astrologicall  Judgements  upon  their  Scheames ;  And  the 
Speech  intended  by  the  Earle  of  Strafford  to  have  beene  spoken  at 
his  Death.  In  Gyro  vcrtimiir  omnes.  London,  Printed  for  John  Part- 
ridge and  Humphrey  Bltmd^n 1645.    4to. 

A — H  in  fours.    Dedicated  to  Charles  I.  in  an  admonitory  epistle. 

Merlini  Anglici  Ephemeris,  Or  Astrological  Judgments  for  the 

year  1665.  By  William  Lilly  Student  in  Astrology.  Ex2irgat  Deus 
&  dissipcntiir  Anglorum  inimici.  London,  Printed  by  A.  IV.  for  tJie 
Company  of  Stationers,  1665.    Sm.  8vo. 

A— F  in  eights.    With  a  portrait  of  Lilly  on  the  title. 

Mr.  William  Lilly's  True  History  of  King  James  the  First 

and  King  Charles  the  First.    With  Sundry  Observations,  Remarkable 

Passages,  and  many  Secret  Transactions  not  till  now  divulged 

London,  1715. Mr.  William  Lilly's  History  of  His  Life  and  Times, 

From  the  Year  1602,  to  1681.  Written  by  himself  in  the  66th  Year  of 
his  Age,  to  his  worthy  Friend,  Elias  Ashmole  Esq  ;  .  .  .  .  The  Second 
Edition.    London,  1715.    Sm.  8vo.    R. 

The  binding  is  a  specimen  of  Roger  Payne's  work. 

LINARES,  Juan  de.  Cancionero,  llamado  Flor  de  Enamorados, 
sacado  de  diuersos  Autores,  agora  nueuemente  por  muy  lindo  orden 
y  estilo  copilado.  Por  Juan  de  Linares.  Con  licencia  del  Ordinario. 
Impresso  en  Barcelona,  en  casa  Sebastian  de  Cormellas  al  Call,  A  no, 
1608.  Vendense  e7i  la  viesma  Emprenta.  In  agenda  form.  ///  tlie  ori- 
ginal yellow  morocco  powdered  with  Marguerites. 

A — M  in  twelves,  including  the  title.  The  last  leaf  bears  a  colophon  which  only 
repeats  the  imprint  on  the  title. 

Brunet  mentions  this  copy  as  having  been  sold  at  the  collection  of  M.  Charles 
Nodier,  but  does  not  record  the  sale  of  any  other.  Of  the  first  edition,  printed  at 
Barcelona  in  1573,  the  only  known  copy  is  in  the  Imperial  Library  at  Vienna. 
An  undescribed  edition  of  161 2  is  in  the  library  of  Mr.  R.  S.  Turner.  It  is  an 
exact  reprint  of  the  edition  of  160S.  There  were  reprints  also  in  1647  and  16S1; 
but  no  edition  appears  in  the  catalogue  of  Sehor  Salvi's  library. 

LINCHE,  Ricii.VRD.  The  Fovntaine  of  Ancient  Fiction.  Wherein 
is  liuely  depictured  the  Images  and  Statues  of  the  gods  of  the  An- 
cients, with  their  proper  and  perticular  expositions.      Done  out  of 

5  F 


850  L IND  L  E  Y—L  INS  CHO  TE  N. 

Italian  into  English,  by  Richard  Linche  Gent.  Tempo  t  figliiiola  di 
vcrita.    London,  Printed  by  Adam  Islip.     1599.    4^0. 

A— Cc  in  fours,  title  on  A 1.    Dedicated  to  Peter  Davison  Esquire. 

LINDLEY,  John,  and  W.  HUTTON.  The  Fossil  Flora  of  Great 
Britain.    London  .  .  .  .   183 1-8.    3  vols.    8vo.    Plates. 

LINGVA :  or,  the  Combate  of  the  Tongve,  And  the  fiue  Sences 
for  Svperioritie.  A  pleasant  Comoedie.  London,  Printed  by  Avgvsti7ie 
Mathewesjor  Simon  Waterson.    1632.    4to. 

A — L  2  in  fours. 

Lingua  :  or,  The  Combat  of  The  Tongue London, 

Printed  for  Simon  Miller,  at  the  Star  re  in  St.  Pauls  Churehyard.  1657. 
Sm.  8vo. 

A — I  in  eights. 

The  first  edition  of  this  play,  the  authorship  of  which  is  entirely  unknown, 
appeared  in  1607,  and  it  was  reprinted  at  least  four  times  between  that  date  and 
1657. 

LINSCHOTEN.  Itinerario,  Voyage  ofte  Schipvaert,  van  Jan  Huy- 
ghen  van  Linschoten  naer  Oost  ofte  Portugaels  Indien  inhoudende 
een  corte  beschryvinghe  der  selver  Landen  ende  Zee-custen,  met  aen- 
wysinge  van  alle  de  voornaemde  principale  Havens,  Revieren,  hoecken 
ende  plaetsen,  tot  noch  toe  vande  Portugesen  ontdeckt  ende  bekent : 

t'Amstelredam.    By  Cornells  Claess.  op  't  Water,  in  't  Schrijf- 

boeck,  by  de  oude  Brugghe.  Anno  CID.  ID.  XCVI.  [Vol.  II.]  Reys- 
ghcschrift  Vande  Navigatien  der  Portugaloysers  in  Orienten,  inhou- 
dende de  Zeevaert,  soo  van  Portugael  naer  Oost  Indien,  als  van  Oost 
Indien  weder  naer  Portugael  ;  Insgelijcx  van  Portugaels  Indien,  nae 
Malacca,  China,  lapan,  d'Eylanden  van  lava  ende  Sunda,  soo  in't 
heen  varen,  als  in  't  weder  keeren ;  Item  van  China  nae  Spaenschs 

Indien,  ende  wederom  van  daer  nae  China  ; ( Amstelredam. 

Anno  M.D.XCV.  [Vol.  II  b.]   Een  seker  Extract  ende  Som- 

mier  van  alle  de  Renten,  Domeynen,  Tollen,  Chijnsen,  Imposten, 
Tribuyten,  Thienden,  Derde-penninghen,  en  incomsten  des  Coninghs 
van  Spaengien  over  alle  zyne  Coninghrijcke,  Landen,  Provintien  en 
hecrlickheyden,  sodanich  als  die  alles  uyt  de  Originale   Registers  der 

respective  Rekencamers  getrocken  zijn  ; f  Amstelredam 

Anno  CID.  ID.  XD  VI.  [Vol.  III.]  Beschryvinghe  van  de  gantsche 
Custe  van  Guinea,  Manicongo,  Angola,  Monomotapa,  ende  tegen  over 
de  Cabo  de  S.  Augustijn  in  Brasilien,  de  eyghenschappen  des  ghe- 

heelen  Oceanische  Zees  ; f  Anistelredani A"  M.D.XD  VI. 

In  I  vol.    Folio.    Maps  and  plates. 

For  a  complete  description  and  collation  of  these  volumes  see  MuUer,  "  Me'moire 
bibhographique,"  pp.  83-7. 


LINSCHOTEN—LIRER.  851 

LINSCHOTEN.  Navigatio  ac  Itinerarium  lohannis  Hugonis  Lins- 
cotani  in  Orientalem  sive  Lusitanorvm  Indiam.    Descriptiones  eivsdem 

Terrae  ac  Tractvvm  Littoralium Collecta  omnia  ac  descripta  per 

eundem  Belgice ;  Nunc  vero  Latine  reddita,  in  vsum  commodum  ac 
voluptatem  studiosi  Lectoris  novarum  memoriaque  dignarum  rerum, 
diligenti  studio  ac  opera.  Hagce  Comitis.  Ex  officind  Albcrti  Hcnrici. 
Iinpensis  Anthoris  &  Cornelii  Nicolai  .  .  .   1599.    Folio. 

See  Muller,  p.  91. 

lohn  Hvighen  van  Linschoten  his  Discours  of  Voyages  into 

y  Easte  &  West  Indies.  Deuided  into  Foure  Bookes.  Printed  at 
London  by  lohn  Wolfe  Printer  to  y  Honorable  Cittie  of  London. 
[1598.]     Folio.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Engraved  title  by  W.  Rogers,  i  leaf;  A,  4  leaves,  containing  dedication  "  To  the 
Right  Worshipful!  lulius  Caesar  Doctor  of  the  Lawes,  .  .  .";  B — Q  in  sixes  ;  R,  8 
leaves  ;  *S,  2  leaves,  with  the  conclusion  to  the  first  book  and  the  separate  title  to 
the  second ;  S  (repeated) — Aa  in  sixes  ;  Bb — Cc  in  fours  ;  Dd — Pp  in  sixes ;  Oq, 
8  leaves,  the  last  blank.  With  twelve  maps  and  plates  by  W.  Rogers,  Robert  Beckit, 
and  Raynald  Elstracke,  besides  those  on  the  letterpress. 

The  present  copy  has  all  the  English  maps.  It  is  a  very  difficult  volume  to  find 
quite  perfect  and  in  clean  state. 

Translated  by  William  Philip.  The  date  is  found  on  the  printed  titles  to  the 
second  and  following  books.  The  dedication  to  Dr.  (aftervvards  Sir  Julius)  Caesar 
is  signed  by  the  printer,  who  offers  the  book  as  a  slight  return  for  numerous  favours 
received,  and  points  out  the  propriety  of  the  inscription  of  a  volume  of  travels  by 
sea  to  the  Judge  of  the  Court  of  Admiralty.  The  initials  of  the  translator  appear  on 
the  printed  title  to  Books  ii.-iv. 

Voyagie,  ofte  Schip-vaert,  Ian  Huyghen  van  Linschoten,  van 

by  Noorden  om  langes  Noorvvegen  de  Noortcaep,  Laplant,  Vinlant, 
Ruslandt,  de  Witte  Zee,  de  Custen  van  Candenoes,  Swetenoes,  Pit- 
zora,  &c.  door  de  Strata  ofte  Engte  van  Nassau  tot  voorby  de  Revier 

Oby Anno  1594.  eri  1595.    Gcdruct  tot  Franeker,  By 

Gerard  Ketel.    [1601.]  Folio.    Plates. 

A  full  collation  and  description  is  given  by  Muller,  pp.  192-3. 

Voyasie,  ofte  Schip-vaert,  van  Ian  Huyghen  van  Linschoten 

Anno  1594  ende   1595.     T' Amsterdam.    By  Lan  Evcrtssen 

Cloppenberg  A"  1624.    Folio.    Maps  and  plates. 

Muller,  p.  192. 

LIPSCOMB,  George.  The  History  and  Antiquities  of  the  County 

of  Buckingham.    London i847-    4  vols.    Folio.    Large  paper. 

Plates  and  woodaits.    R.  M. 

This  copy  has  the  arms  emblazoned. 

[LIRER,  Thomas.]  [On  a  ii  begins:]  In  gottes  namen  Amen. 
C  In  diser  Coronick  wiirdet  durch  verdrieszlich  vermeiden  langer 
geschrifft  zu  lesen.    vnd  lieplich  die  kiirtze  zu  horen  begriffen  gar  vil 


852  LIRER-LISLE. 

mengerlei  schoner  alter  gcschichten  so  vor  mer  dann  tausent  iareii 
geschehcn  zu  den  zeittcn  do  die  schwabischen  land  vnd  andre  land 
haiden  gewesen  seind.  Vnd  durch  wen  sie  zu  dem  cristenlichen 
gelauben  genottrenget  vnd  gebracht  seind  worden  &  c.  \0.  0.  u.  J.] 
Folio.    BR.  M. 

Sixty-four  leaves  (first  and  last  blank).    Eighteen  woodcuts. 

This  edition  without  date  is  esteemed  by  Panzer  to  be  earlier  than  that  with 
Dinckmut's  name,  described  below  ;  but  both  are  clearly  from  the  same  press. 

[LIRER,  Thomas.]  [On  a  ii  begins :]  [I]  N  Gottes  namen  Amen. 
C  In  diser  Cronick  wiirdet  durch  verdrieszlich  vermeiden  langer  gesch- 
rifft  zu  lesen.  vfi  lieplich  die  kurtze  zu  horen.  begriffen  gar  vil  mengerlay 
schoner  alter  geschichten.  so  vor  mer  dann  tausent  iaren  geschehen. 
zu  den  zeiten  do  die  schwabischen  land  vnd  andere  land  Haiden 
gewesen  sind.  Vnd  durch  w^cn  sie  zu  cristenlichem  glauben  genotdrengt 
vnd  gebracht  seind  worden.  [Colophon.]  Nacli  dergeburtCi-istivnsers 
herrcti.  M.cccc.Ixxxviiar.  an  dem.  xH.  tagdcsz  Jeners.  ward  disc  Cronigk 
getritckt  von  Qcnmd  Dinchnut  zu  Vlin.    Folio.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

a — b  in  eights,  the  first  leaf  of  sig.  a,  blank  ;  c — i  in  sixes  ;  k,  lo  leaves,  the  last 
blank. 

lirunet  describes  this  edition  as  having  twenty-one  wood-engravings  ;  but  there 
are  twenty-two,  besides  one  which  is  repeated. 

Jocher,  in  his  "AUgemeines  Gelehrten  Lexion,"  says  that  the  author  of  this 
chronicle  lived  in  the  twelfth  century,  but  Panzer,  as  will  be  seen  in  the  following 
extract,  assigns  to  him  a  much  earlier  date: 

"Wer  der  Verfaszer,  der  sich,  wie  schon  gedacht  worden,  Thoman  Lirer  gesessen 
zu  Rankweil  nennet,  und  von  sich  sagt,  er  sey  seines  gnadigen  Herren  von  Werden- 
berg  knecht  gewesen  und  mit  ihm  auszgefaren  gen  Portigal  etc.  gewesen  sey,  ist  nicht 
bekannt.  Wegelin  vennuthet,  der  Herr  von  Wcrdenberg  sey  der  Albertus  gewesen, 
der  um  das  Jahr  920  lebte,  und  des  konigs  von  Portugal  Tochter  Elisa  entfiihrte. 
Was  die  Glaubwiirdigkeit  dieses  alten  Geschichtschreibers  bctrift,  so  ist  er  freylich 
von  vielen  fur  einen  Idioten  und  Fabelschmid  erklaret  worden.  Doch  haben  ihn 
einige  wieder  in  Schutz  genommen,  besonders  Heider,  welcher  in  den  Actis  Lin- 
daviens.  S.  611.  u.  f.  ausfiihrlich  zu  enveisen  sucht,  dasz  in  dieser  Lirerischen 
Chronik  manche  Dinge  gefunden  wiirden,  welche  mit  andern  glaubwUrdigen 
Geschichtschreibern  iibereinstimmen.  Wegelin  urtheilt,  der  Werth  und  Verlust 
dieser  Chronik  ware  wohl  von  keiner  sonderlichen  Erheblichkeit,  doch  verdiene  sie 
deswegen  wieder  herfiirgesucht  zu  werden,  weil  doch  vicle  Spuren  von  dem  alten 
Adel,  V'esten,  Stadten,  Klostern  u.  d.  darinn  angetroffen  wiirden." — Panzer,  i.,  161. 

LISLE,  William.  The  Faire  ./Ethiopian.  Dedicated  to  the  King 
and  Oueene.  By  their  Maiesties  most  humble  Subiect  and  Seruant, 
William  Lisle.  [Quotation  from  Horace,  "  De  Arte  Poet."]  London, 
Printed  by  John  Haviland,  at  the  Authors  charge,  and  are  to  be  sold  at 
S.  Dunstans  Church-yard  in  Fleet-street,  and  by  S.  Maries  in  both  Vni- 
uersities.     1631.    4to. 

A — Bb  2  in  fours.     In  verse. 

A  metrical  version  of  the  "Theagenes  and  Chariclea"  of  Heliodorus.  The 
unsold  copies  were  reissued  in  163S,  with  a  new  title-page,  in  which  the  author 


LITANY— LITHGOW.  853 

is  mentioned.  The  copy  in  the  British  Museum  is  in  the  original  morocco  binding, 
and  is  evidently  that  which  was  presented  by  the  author  to  the  King  and  Queen. 
The  imprint  is  only  '■''Printed  by  John  Haviland,  at  the  Authors  charge,"  and 
sig.  A  has  only  two  leaves,  one  for  the  title  and  the  other  for  the  dedication. 

LITANY.  Eyn  Letaney  zu  Got  dem  vatter,  In  alien  angsten,  vnd 
den  sterbenden  in  todes  notten  trostlich  vor  zusprechen  vnnd  zu  beten. 
\P.  O.  It.  J.']    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  u. 

Fourteen  leaves.  The  title  is  within  a  woodcut  border,  and  on  the  verso  of  the 
last  leaf  is  a  woodcut  of  the  printer's  device. 

Panzer  describes  a  4to  edition  of  this  Litany:  "  Aus2gangen  zu  alten  Miinster. 
Imjar.  M.D.XXIII."  The  8vo  edition  here  described  was  probably  printed  about 
the  same  date. 

Teiitsche  Letaney,  umb  alles  anligen  der  Cristenlichen  ge- 

maj^n.    \_N'urnberg.'\    Jobst  Giitknecht.    \0.  y.]    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Seven  leaves.    With  musical  notation. 

LITHGOW,  William.  A  Most  Delectable,  and  Trve  Discourse, 
of  an  admired  and  painefuU  peregrination  from  Scotland,  to  the  most 
famous  Kingdomes  in  Europe,  Asia  and  Affricke.  Witli  Tlie  particular 
Descriptions  (more  exactly  set  downe  then  hath  beene  heeretofore  in 
English)  of  Italy,  Sycilia,  Dalmatia,  Ilyria  ....  and  the  whole  Con- 
tinent of  Greece,  Creta,  Rhodes,  the  lies  Cyclades,  with  all  the  Hands 
in  the  Ionian,  .^gean,  and  Adriaticke  Seas,  Thracia,  the  renowned 
Citty  Constantinople,  Cholchis,  Bythinia,  and  the  black  Sea,  Troy, 
Phrygia,  and  the  chiefest  Countries  of  Asia  Minor.     From  thence,  To 

Cyprus,  Phoenicia,  Syria,  Mesopotamia and  the  sacred  Citty 

lerusalem,  &c.  Cceluni  non  Aiiimum.  By  William  Lithgow  Scotus. 
London,  Printed  by  Nicholas  Okcs,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Thomas  Archer, 
at  his  Shop  in  Popes-head  Pallace,  neere  the  Royall  Exchange.  16 14. 
4to.    BL.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  a,  2  leaves  ;  B — T  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  Robert,  Earl  of  Somerset,  and  in  a  second  address  (in  verse) 
to  his  countess.  There  are  commendatory  verses  by  John  Murray,  W.[illiam] 
A.[lexander  ?],  Simeon  Grahame,  &c. 

First  edition.  The  verso  of  sig.  a,  and  the  whole  of  the  next  leaf  are  occupied 
by  "A  Dire, made  by  the  Pilgrime  in  the  lie  Nigroponti,  when  hee  was  constrained 
by  Greekes,  to  keepe  Centinell  sixe  dales  (according  to  the  times)  who  then  stood 
in  feare  of  two  Turkish  Gallies,"  and  on  the  last  page  occurs  :  "  A  Sonet  made  by 
the  Avthor  vpon  Helen  when  hee  pitched  at  Argo  and  Mycene  in  Sparta  whence 
shee  was  rauished." 

Of  this  original  edition,  which  varies  much  from  the  later  ones,  and  contains 
far  less  matter,  very  few  copies  are  known.  There  are  two  in  the  British  iVIuseum, 
one  imperfect,  and  others  in  the  Bodleian  and  at  Britwell. 

The  Totall  Discourse,  Of  the  Rare  Aduentures,  and  painefull 

Peregrinations  of  long  nineteene  Yeares  Trauayles,  from  Scotland,  to 

the  most  Famous  Kingdomes  in  Europe,  Asia,  and  Affrica 

By  William   Lithgow.    Imprinted  at  London  by  Niclwlas  Okes,  and 


854  LITHGOW—LITURGIA. 

are  to  be  sold  by  Nicholas  Ficssell  and  Humphery  Mosley  .  .  .  .  1632, 

4to.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

A— Vvv  in  fours,  including  the  frontispiece. 

The  fourth  edition.     The  second  was  printed  in  1616  and  the  third  in  1623. 

LITHGOVV,  William.  Scotlands  Welcome  to  her  Native  Sonne. 
And  Soveraigne  Lord,  King  Charles  Wherein  is  also  contained,  the 
maner  of  His  Coronation,  and  Convocation  of  Parliament ;  The  whole 
Grievances  and  abuses  of  the  Common-wealth  of  this  Kingdome,  w  ith 
diverse  other  relations,  never  heretofore  published.  Worthy  to  be  by- 
all  the  Nobles  and  Gentry  perused;  and  to  be  layd  vp  in  the  hearts, 
and  chests  of  the  whole  Commouns,  whose  interests  may  best  claime  it, 
either  in  meane,  or  maner,  from  which  their  Priuiledges,  and  fortunes 
are  drawne,  as  from  the  Loadstar  of  true  direction.  By  W'illiam  Lith- 
gow,  the  Bonaventvre,  of  Europe,  Asia,  and  Africa.  [Quotation  from 
Ovid.  Met.  15.]  Edinbvrgh  Printed  by  I  aim  Wreittovn.  Cum  Frivi- 
legio.    [1633.]    4to. 

Title,  commendatory  verses,  and  prologue,  3  leaves  ;  A — G  in  fours.     In  verse. 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  Bright  and  Mr.  Corser,  having  formerly  belonged 
to  the  old  library  of  the  Earls  of  Sutherland.  Before  it  was  rebound  the  volume 
bore  on  the  old  gilt  vellum  cover  the  autograph  "  Sutherland." 

The  Gushing  Teares  of  Godly  Sorrow.     Containing,  The 

Causes,  Conditions,  and  Remedies  of  Sinne,  Depending  mainly  upon 
Contrition  and  Confession.  And  they  seconded,  with  Sacred,  and 
Comfortable  passages,  under  the  mourning  Cannopie  of  Teares,  and 
Repentance.  [Quotation  from  Matth.  v.  4,  and  Psalm  cxxvi.  5.]  By 
William  Lithgow.  Edinburgh,  Printed  by  Robert  Bryson,  Anno  Dom. 
1 640.   A  t  the  expences  of  the  Aut/iour.    4to. 

A — N  2  in  fours.     In  verse. 

Dedicated  to  James,  Earl  of  Montrose. 

LITURGIA  SACRA,  sev  Ritvs  Ministerij  in  Ecclesia  pere- 
grinorum  Francofordiae  ad  Mcenum.  Addita  est  summa  doctrinae 
seu  fidei  professio  eiusdem  Ecclesiae Francofordicz  1554.  [Colo- 
phon.] Impressum  Francofordice  apud  Petrum  Brubachiiivi.  1554. 
Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

Pp.  1-94,  including  title  and  leaf  of  subscription  not  paged. 

This  Liturgy  was  first  published  in  February,  1 55 1,  for  the  use  of  the  Strangers' 
Church  in  London,  "  and  is  supposed  to  have  furnished  hints  to  the  revisers  of  the 
Book  of  Common  Prayer  in  some  additions  which  were  made  in  1552  to  the  ancient 
services."  See  Procters  "  History  of  the  Common  Prayer."  On  the  accession  of 
Queen  Mar>^  the  refugees  fled  from  England,  and  Pullain,  or  Pollanus,  the  compiler 
of  this  form  of  service,  and  the  head  of  the  church,  went  to  Francfort,  and  the  book 
was  again  printed  as  above,  with  the  addition  of  the  Confession  of  Faith.  From 
this  church  sprang  the  troubles  at  Francfort  about  the  Common  Prayer.— il/.S'.  note 
by  Mr.  C.  J.  Stewart. 


\ 


LIVIUS— LLOYD.  855 

LIVIUS.  Ex  XIIII.T.  Livii  Decadibvs.  Prima,  Tertia,  Quarta,  in 
qua  praeter  fragmenta  iii,  &  x  libri,  qu£E  in  Germania  nuper  reperta, 
hie  etiam  continentur,  multa  adulterina  expunximus,  multa  uera  rece- 
pimus,  quae  in  aliis  non  habentur.  Epitome  singulorum  librorum  xiiii 
Decadum.  Historia  omnium  XIIII  Decadum  in  compendium  redacta 
ab  L.  Floro.  Polybij  lib.  V  de  rebus  Romanis  latinitate  donati  a  Ni- 
colao  Perotto.  .  .  .  [Colophon.]  Vcnetiis  in  Aedibus  Aldi,  .  .  .  iiieiise 
Dccembri.  M.D.XVIIL   Titi  Livii  Patavini  Decas  tertia.    [Colophon.] 

Venetiis  ....  mense  Fcbrnario.  M.D.XIX.   Titi  Livii Decas 

qvarta.    [Colophon.]    Venetiis mense  Novembri.  M.D.XX.  Titi 

Livii  ....  librorvm  Epitomae.  Lvcivs  Florvs.  [Colophon.]  Venetiis 
....  mense  Mariio.  M.D.XX L  Titi  Livii  ....  Decadis  qvinta;  libri 
qvinqve.  [Colophon.]  Venetiis  in  aedibus  haeredvyn  Aldi  Manvtii  Ro- 
mani,  et  Andreae  Asvlani  Soceri,  vunse  Maio.  M.D.XXXIII.  5  vols. 
8vo.  R.  M. 

Titi  Livii  Historiarum  Libri  ex  recensione  I.  F.  Gronovii. 


Lngd.  Bat.  Ex  officina  Eheviriana.  Anno  164$.  4  vols.   Sm.  8vo.  R.M. 
Titi  Livii  Historiarum  quod  extat,  cum  perpetuis  Gronovii  et 


Variorum  notis.   Anist.    1665.    3  vols.    8vo. 

Idem.    Amstelodami,  Apud  Danielem  Elzeviritim.    A"  1678. 


8vo.    R.  M. 

LLEWELLYN,  Martin.  Men-Miracles.  With  other  Poemes.  By 
M.  LL.  St.  of  Ch.  Ch.  in  Oxon.  London,  Printed  for  Will.  Shears 
Junior  at  the  Blue  Bible  in  Bedford  Street  in  Covent-Garden.  1656. 
Sm.  Svo.    The  edges  uncut.    BL.  M. 

A — L  iv  in  eights,  the  title  on  A  2. 

To  the  Kings  Most  Excellent  Majesty.    [Colophon.]  London, 


Printed  for  J.  Martin,  Ja.  Allestry,  T.  Dicas,  .  .  .  1660.    Folio. 

A — C,  2  leaves  each.  Printed  without  any  regular  title.  The  last  two  leaves 
are  occupied  by  poems  to  the  Dukes  of  York  and  Gloucester.  Both  are  subscribed 
"  Martin  Lluel)-!!." 

An  Elegie  On  the  Death  of  the  most  Illustrious  Prince,  Henry 


Duke  of  Gloucester.  By  Martin  LLuelyn  Dr.  in  Ph.  Sworn  Phy :  to 
His  Majesty  :  Principall  of  S.  M.  Hall  Oxon.  and  Fellow  of  the  Coll.  of 
Phy.  Lond.  Oxford,  Printed  by  lien.  Hall  Printer  to  the  University, 
for  Ric.  Davis  1660.     Folio. 

Four  leaves. 

LLOYD,  David.  The  Legend  of  Captain  Jones.  Relating  His 
adventure  to  Sea  :  His  first  landing,  and  strange  Combat  with  a  mighty 
Bear.    His  furious  Battel,  with  his  six  and  thirty  men,  against  the 


856  LLOYD. 

Army  of  eleven  Kings,  with  their  overthrow  and  deaths.  His  reh"eving 
of  Kemper  Castle.    His  strange  and  admirable  Sea-fight  with  six  huge 

Gallies  of  Spain,  and  nine  thousand  Souldiers London,  Printed  for 

Humphrey  Moseley,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  the  Pritice's  Artnes 
in  St.  PauFs  Church-yard.    1659.   Sm.  8vo.   G.  M. 

Title,  &c.,  including  a  frontispiece  by  W.  Marshall,  5  leaves;  A— F  4  in  eights. 

The  author  of  this  mock-heroic  poem  was  Dean  of  St.  Asaph.  There  is  a  dupli- 
cate in  the  library,  wanting  the  frontispiece,  but  with  the  edges  uncut. 

LLOYD,  Humphrey.  The  historie  of  Cambria,  now  called  Wales  : 
A  part  of  the  most  famous  Yland  of  Brytaine,  written  in  the  Brytish 
language  aboue  two  hundreth  yeares  past :  translated  into  English 
by  H.  Lhoyd  Gentleman  :  Corrected,  augmented,  and  continued  out 
of  Records  and  best  approoued  Authors,  by  Dauid  Powel  Doctor  in 
diuinitie.  [Colophon.]  1584.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Rafe  Newberie 
and  Henrie  Denliam.  Cum  Priuikgio  ....  4to.  Black  letter.  Wood- 
cuts.  R. 

IT,  8  leaves  ;  A,  8  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves,  B  4  blank  ;  C — Ee  in  eights  [no  sig.  Z] ; 
Ff— Gg  in  fours.    The  last  leaf  blank.    Dedicated  by  Powell  to  Sir  Philip  Sydney. 

LLOYD,  LODOWICKE.  The  Pilgrimage  of  Princes,  Newly  pub- 
lished, by  Lodowicke  Lloid  Esquier,  one  of  her  Maiesties  Sergeants  at 
Armes.  Lnprintcd  at  London,  by  lohn  Wolfe.  1586.  4to.  Black 
letter. 

H  and  f f,  4  leaves  each;  A — lii  in  fours.  The  leaf  following  the  title  has  a  set 
of  acrostic  verses  on  "  Christoforos  Hattonvs,"  and  this  is  succeeded  by  a  prose 
dedication  to  Sir  Christopher  Hatton.  Then  come  four  sets  of  commendatory  verses 
in  Latin,  and  a  separate  leaf,  bearing  thirty  Alexandrine  verses  in  English  by  Thomas 
Churchyard.  Sheet  LI  is  occupied  with  "  The  Deathes  of  certaine  Noble  Princes 
in  english  verse." 

The  first  edition  was  printed  by  William  Jones  without  date,  but  between  1571 
and  1574.  It  contains  "The  Pilgrimage  of  Queens"  and  "The  Aucthor  to  his 
booke,"  the  latter  in  English  Alexandrines,  but  neither  of  these  was  reprinted  in 
the  later  editions. 

The  Pilgrimage  of  Princes.    Newly  published  :  by  Lodowicke 

Lloid  Esquire,  one  of  her  Maiesties  Sergeants  at  Armes.  London, 
Printed  by  W.  White.    1607.    4to. 

A— Ddd  2  in  fours.  This  is  a  reprint  of  the  preceding  edition,  both  as  regards 
preliminary  matter  and  text. 

The  Stratagems  of  Jerusalem  :  With  the  martiall  lawes  and 

militarie  discipline,  as  well  of  the  levves,  as  of  the  Gentiles.     By  Lodo- 

wick  Lloyd  Esquier,  one  of  her  Maiesties  Serieants  at  Armes 

London  Printed  by  Thomas  Crccdc.    1602.    4to. 

A— Aaa  in  fours,  last  leaf  blank.    Dedicated  to  "Syr  Robert  Cecill  Knight." 


LLOYD— LODEW 17  CKSZ.  857 

LLOYD,  LODOWICKE.  A  Briefe  Conference  of  Divers  Lawes : 
Diuided  into  certaine  Regiments.  By  Lodowick  LLoyd  Esquier,  one 
of  her  Maiesties  Serieants  at  Amies.  [Quotation  from  Eccles.  21.] 
London  Printed  by  Thomas  Creede,  1602.     4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — V  3  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  Queen  Elizabeth.  The  fly-leaves  of  the  volume,  containing  this 
and  the  preceding  piece  by  Lloyd,  in  the  original  vellum  cover,  are  formed  of  a 
fragment  of  "  Thule,  or  Vertues  Historic,"  a  rare  poetical  work,  by  Francis  Rous, 
4to,  1598. 

The  Choyce  of  lewels.    By  Lodowik  Lloid  Esquier.    London 

Printed  by  Thomas  Purfoot,     1 607.     4to. 

A — F  in  fours. 

The  royal  arms  are  on  the  back  of  the  title,  and  the  following  leaf  contains 
verses  composed  acrostically  on  the  words  "  To  Anna  Oveene  of  Gret  Britan 
Health."  Then  comes  a  dedication  to  the  Queen  in  prose,  succeeded  by  the 
author's  gratulation  to  Christian  King  of  Denmark  on  his  visit  to  England,  also  in 
prose.  The  tract  is  devoted  to  an  account  of  famous  women,  marriage  ceremonies 
in  different  countries,  &c. 

LOANDO.  Af-beelding  ende  Verhael  van  de  heerlijcke  Victory, 
voor  de  E  :  Heeren  Bewinthebberen  der  geoctroyeerde  West-Indische 
Compagnie  verkregen,  inden  lare  1641.  den  26.  Augusti  door  den 
Manhaften  ende  Victorieusen  Heldt  den  Admirael  lol,  anders  geseyt 
Houtebeen,  gheassisteert  met  de  Heer  Luytenant  Colonel  Henderson. 
1)1  '  Graven-Hage.    1642.    A  Broadside. 

At  the  top  is  a  large  copper-plate  of  the  taking  of  the  island  of  Loando  by  the 
Dutch  fleet. 

LOCKE,  John.    Further  Considerations  Concerning  Raising  the 

Value  of  Money  .  .  .  London,  Printed  for  A.  and  J.  Chiirchil 

1695.    8vo.     The  edges  imcut. 

A — H  in  eights. 

L.[ODEWIJCKSZ],W.[ILLEM].  D'Eerste Boeck.  Historievanln- 
dien,  waer  inne  verhaelt  is  de  avontueren  die  de  Hollandtsche  Schepen 
bejeghent  zijn  :  Oock  een  particulier  verhael  der  Conditien,  Religien, 
Manieren  ende  huijshoudinge  der  volckeren  die  zybeseijlt  hebben  :  wat 
Gelt,  Specerye,  Drogues  ende  Coopmanschappen  by  haer  ghevonden 
wordt,  met  den  prijs  van  dien  ;  Daer  by  ghevoecht  de  Opdoeninghen 
ende  streckingen  vande  Eylanden  ende  Zee-custen,  als  oock  de  con- 
terfeytsels  der  Inwoonderen,  met  veel  Caertiens  verciert ;  Voor  alle 
Zee-varende  ende  curieuse  lief-hebbers  seer  ghenuechlijck  om  lesen. 
Door  G.  M.  A.  W.  L.  Gedruckt  ( Amstelredani,  by  Cornelis  Clacsz. 
opt  Water,  int  Schrijf -boeck,  A°  1598.    Oblong  4to.    Maps  and  plates. 

For  a  full  collation  and  description  of  this  volume  see  MuUer,  "  Mdmoire  biblio- 
graphique,"  pp.  124-6. 

5G 


858  LODEWIJCKSZ. 

L.[ODEWIJCKSZ],VV.[ILLEM].  D'Eerste  Boeck.  Historic  van 
Indicn,  waer  innc  vcrhaelt  is  de  avontuere  die  de  Hollandtsche  Schepen 
bejegent  zijn :  Oock  een  particulier  verhael  der  Conditien,  Religien, 
Maniere  en  huys  houdinge  der  volckeren  die  zy  beseylt  hebben  : .  .  .  . 
Door  G.  M.  A.  W.  L.  Gcdntckt  ( Amstdredam,  by  Cornells  Claesz.  oft 
Water,  Int  Schrljfboeck,  Anno  1609.    Oblong  4to.    Maps  and  plates. 

A  full  collation  is  given  by  Muller,  p.  128.  With  regard  to  the  initials  on  the 
title  Muller  says,  p.  130  :  "  L'auteur,  qui  se  cache  sous  les  initiales  G.  M.  A.  W.  L. 
n'est  autre  que  Willem  Lodewijcksz,  un  des  commissaires  de  la  flotte." 

Prima  pars  Descriptionis  Itineris  navalis  in  Indiain  Orientalem, 


earvmqve  rervm  qvae  navibvs  Battavis  occvrrervnt:  vnacvm  particvlari 
enarratione  conditionum,  morum,  ceconomise  populorum,  quos  adnavi- 
gariint  ....  Autliore  G.  M.  A.  W.  L.  Amstelrodand,  Ex  Offictna 
Cornelij  Nicolaj,  Typographl  ad  symbohini  Dtarij,  ad  aquain.    Anno 

M.D.XCVIII. Diarivm  Navticvm,  seu Vera  Descriptio  Trium  Navi- 

gationum  admirandarum,  &  nunquam  auditarum,  tribus  continuis  annis 
factarum,  a  HoIIandicis  &  Zclandicis  navibus,  ad  Septentrionem,  supra 
Norvagiam,  Moscoviam  &  Tartariam,  versus  Catthay  &  Sinarum  regna : 
turn  ut  detecta  fuerint  Weygatz  fretum,  Nova  Zembia,  &  Regio  sub  80. 
gradu  sita,  quam  Groenladiam  esse  censent,  quam  nullus  unquam  adijt: 
Deinde  de  feris  &  trucibus  vrsis,  aliisque  monstris  marinis,  &  intolerabili 

frigore  quod  pertulerunt Auctore  Gerardode  Vera  Amstelro- 

damense.  Amstelredami,  Ex  Officina  Cornelij  NicolaiJ,  Typographi  ad 
symbobim  Diarij,ad  aquani.    Anno  M.D.XCVIII.    Folio.    Plates. 

This  Latin  version  is  evidently  anterior  to  the  French  translation  printed  the 
same  year,  as  may  be  seen  by  the  very  much  better  state  of  the  plates  which  are 
worked  on  the  letterpress.    For  full  collation,  see  Muller,  pp.  127  and  106. 

Pirma   \sic\   pars  Descriptionis   Itineris   navalis   in  Indiam 


Orientalem Amstelrodami,  vencnnt  apud  Johanncm    Wal- 

schaert.    1614.    Folio.    Plates. 

This  edition  is  exactly  the  same  as  that  of  1 598,  except  that  the  title  is  reprinted, 
and  bears  a  copper-plate  of  an  elephant  procession  instead  of  a  map.  The  letter- 
press is  identical,  but  the  engravings  have  clearly  been  printed  at  a  later  date. 

Premier  Livre  de  IHistoire  de  la  Navigation  avx  Indes  Orien- 


tales,  par  les  Hollandois,  et  des  choses  a  evx  advenves.  .  .  .  ImprimJ 

a  Anistehedaui par  Cornille  Nicolas 1S98. Le  Second  Livre, 

lournal  ov  Comptoir,  contenant  le  vray  discovrs  et  narration  histo- 
rique,  dv  Voiage  faict  par  les  liuict  Navires  d'Amsterdam,  au  mois  de 
Mars  I'An  1598.  soubs  la  conduitte  de  I'Admiral  lacques  Corneille 

Necq Imprime  a  Amsterdam  cJiez  Corneille  Nicolas 

1601. Appendice.    Vocabvlaire  des  mots  lavans  et  Malayts 

I nipriind  chcz  Corneille  Nicolas 1 601. Description  dv  penible 

Voyage  faict  entovr  de  1' Vnivers  ov  Globe  Terrestre,  par  Sr.  Olivier  dv 


LODGE.  8S9 

Nort  d'Vtreclit Imprime  a  Amstelrcdamc,  Chez  Cornillc  Claessz. 

1602. Description  et  Recit  historial  dv  riche  Royaume  d'or 

de  Gvnea.    A  Ainsterdanime.    Imprinie  chez  Cornille  Clacson.  .  .  Anno 

I\I.  VIC.  V. Vraye  description  de  trois  Voyages  de  Mer  tres  admi- 

rables,  faicts  en  trois  ans,  a  chacvn  an  vn,  par  les  Navires  d'Hollande  et 
Zelande,  av  Nord  par  derriere  Norwege,  Moscovie,  et  Tartaric,  vers  les 
Royaumes  de  China  &  Catay.  .....  Par  Girard  le  Ver.    Iinprhiie  a 

Amstdrcdavi  par  Cornille  Nicolas Anno  M.D.XCVIII.    In  i  vol. 

Folio.    Plates.    BL.  M. 

M.  MuUer,  in  his  valuable  "  M^moire  bibliographique,"  p.  128,  states  that  William 
Lodewijcksz  is  undoubtedly  the  author  of  the  voyage  which  forms  the  earlier  part 
of  this  volume,  though  he  is  quite  unable  to  explain  the  letters  G.  M.  A.,  which  pre- 
cede his  initials.  This  gives  us  a  more  satisfactory  heading  under  which  to  place 
the  different  editions  of  the  book  than  bibliographers  have  hitherto  been  able  to  avail 
themselves  of  in  an  alphabetical  catalogue.  In  Brunei  the  Latin  version  stands  under 
the  ver)'  unsatisfactory  heading  of  "  Prima  pars,"  and  in  the  Grenville  catalogue  it  is 
to  be  found  under  the  still  more  doubtful  heading  of  "De  Bry,"  seeing  that  all  De 
Bry  had  to  do  with  it  was  that  he  reprinted  it  in  his  collection  of  voyages. 

LODGE,  Edmund.  Illustrations  of  British  Historj^  Biography, 
and  I\Ianners  ....  Ornamented  with  Portraits,  &c.  London.  I79'- 
3  vols.    4to. 

Portraits  of  Illustrious  Personages  of  Great  Britain.   Engraved 

from  Authentic  Pictures  ....  with  Biographical  and  Historical  Me- 
moirs   London,  1821-34.   4  vols.    Folio.   Large  paper,  the  plates 

on  India  paper.    R.  M. 

Appended  to  this  copy  is  a  set  of  the  artist's  proofs  of  the  engravings,  without 
letterpress,  bound  in  two  volumes. 

LODGE,  Thomas.  Rosalynde.  Euphues  golden  Legacie,  found 
after  his  death  in  his  Cell  at  Silexedra.  Beqveathed  to  Philavtvs 
Sonnes,  noursed  vp  with  their  Father  in  England.  Fetcht  from  the 
Canaries  by  T.  L.  Gent.  London,  Printed  by  Abel  leffes  for  T.  G.  and 
lohn  Bnsbie.     1 592.    4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

A — P  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  Lord  Hunsdon.  This  is  the  second  edition,  and  contains  the 
"  Scedule  annexed  to  Euphues  Testament,  the  tenour  of  his  Legacie,  the  token  of 
his  Loue,"  which  is  not  in  the  first  edition.  Of  the  first  edition  no  perfect  copy  is 
known,  and  of  the  second  the  only  other  copy  yet  discovered  is  that  in  the  Maione 
collection  at  Oxford. 

Lodge's  "Rosalynd"  is  familiar  to  Shakespearian  students  as  the  foundation- 
story  of  Shakespeare's  "  As  you  Like  it."  Some  of  the  poems,  with  which  the  book 
is  copiously  interspersed,  were  reprinted  in  "  England's  Helicon,"  1600. 

Euphues  Golden  Legacie.    Found   after  his  death  in  his  Cell 

at  Silexedra.  Bequeathed  to  Philavtvs  Sonnes,  nursed  vp  with  their 
Father  in  England.  Fetcht  from  the  Canaries,  by  T.  L.  Gent.  Im- 
printed at  London  for  lohn  Suiethwicke,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop 
1634.    4to.    Black  letter. 


86o  LODGE. 

A — O  in  fours. 

The  word  "  Rosalynd"  was  omitted  from  the  title  of  all  the  editions  after  i6og. 
In  other  respects  this  edition  of  1634  appears  to  be  a  simple  reprint  of  that  of 
1592. 

LODGE,  Thomas.  Wits  Miserie,  and  the  Worlds  Madnesse  :  Dis- 
couering  the  Deuils  Incarnat  of  this  Age.  London,  Printed  by  Adam 
Islip,  and  arc  to  be  sold  by  Cuthbert  Burby,  at  his  shop  by  the  Roiall- 
Exchange.    1 596.    4to.    Black  letter,    o.  M. 

A— P  in  fours,  the  title  on  A  ii. 

"To  the  Right  worshipfull  brothers,  Nicholas  Hare  of  Stow  Bardolfe  Esquire 
and  Recorder  of  Lyn,  Hugh  Hare  Esquire,  Bencher  of  the  inward  Temple,  and 
lohn  Hare  Esquire,  Clarke  of  her  Maiesties  Court  of  Wards,  Tho.  Lodge  Gentleman, 
wisheth  healih,  wealth,  and  heauen." — Dedication.  This  is  dated  "  in  hast,  from  my 
house  at  Low-Laiton,  this  5.  of  Nouember.  1596." 

The  work  is  a  satire  in  prose  on  the  vices  of  the  time,  and  is  often  quoted  by 
modern  writers  for  the  illustrations  with  which  it  abounds.  The  present  was  Dr. 
Farmer's  copy,  and  afterwards  in  the  collection  of  G.  Chalmers. 

"  At  p.  57  Lodge  gives  a  very  interesting  Account  of  his  Literary  Contemporaries, 
Lilly  is  famous  for  facility  in  Discourses,  Spenser  is  best  read  in  English  Poetry  ; 
Daniel  is  choice  in  word  and  invention.  Drayton  is  diligent  and  formal ;  T.  Nash 
is  the  true  English  Aretine.  It  will  be  observed  no  mention  is  here  made  of 
Shakespeare.  This  appears  highly  to  have  incensed  him,  and  he  retaliated  by 
frequent  sarcasms  on  Lodge  in  several  of  his  Plays.  In  the  Merry  Wives  of 
Windsor  Falstaff  says,  in  the  very  language  of  the  Devil  Luxury,  "  Let  the  Sky 
XMn  potatoes,"  "and  snow  eringoes"  &c.  also  in  Midsummer  Night's  Dream,  in 
Troilus  and  Cressida,  &c.  See  Chalmers's  Supplemental  Apology,  passim.  "In 
short,"  says  Mr.  Chalmers,  "  Lodge  seems  never  to  have  been  out  of  his  head 
after  this  provocation."  Mr.  Chalmers  appears  to  have  overlooked  a  circumstance, 
which  probably  aggravated  the  offence  in  Shakespeare's  eyes  :  Ben  Jonson  is  named 
in  another  part  of  the  Work  as  the  English  Horace,  that  gives  number,  weight,  and 
measure  to  every  word." — Note  in  G.  C/ialmcrs'  Catalogue. 

The   Divel   coniured.     London  Printed  by  Adam  Islip  for 

William  Mats,  dwelling  in  Flectstreet  at  the  sign  of  the  Hand  and 
Plongh.    Anno  IS96.    4to.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

A — M  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  ii. 

Dedicated  to  "  Sir  lohn  Fortescue,  knight,  Chancellor  of  the  Exchecker,  Master 
of  the  Wardrope,"  &c.  This  is,  perhaps,  one  of  the  least  interesting  of  Lodge's  pub- 
lications, nor  is  the  author's  precise  drift  very  clear.     Dr.  Farmer's  copy. 

A  Treatise  of  the  Plague  :  Containing  the  nature,  signes,  and 

accidents  of  the  same,  with  the  certaine  and  absolute  cure  of  the 
Feuers,  Botches  and  Carbuncles,  that  raigne  in  these  times:  And 
aboue  all  things  most  singular  Experiments  and  preseruatiues  in  the 
same,  gathered  by  the  obseruation  of  diuers  worthy  Trauailers,  and 
selected  out  of  the  writings  of  the  best  learned  Phisitians  in  this  age. 
By  Thomas  Lodge,  Doctor  in  Phisicke.    London,  Printed  for  Edward 

White  and  N.  L.    1603.    4to.     Black  letter. 


LODG  E—L  OMA  TI  US.  86i 

A — L  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Dedicated  to  the  Lord  Mayor,  Aldermen,  and  Sheriffs  of  London.  It  appears 
from  the  dedication  that  Lodge,  when  he  wrote  this  professional  treatise,  resided  in 
Warwick  Lane,  in  the  City.  He  speaks  here  with  some  severity  of  certain  fellow- 
practitioners. 

LODGE,  Thomas.    A  Looking  Glasse  for  London  and  England. 
Made  By  Thomas  Lodge  Gentleman,  and  Robert  Greene.    In  Artibus 
Magister.    London,  Imprinted  by  Barnard  Alsop,  and  arc  to  be  sold  at 
his  liouse.  within  Gar  tar  place  in  Barbican.     1617.    4to.     R.  ^L 
A — I  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.     From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

A  Margarite  of  America,  by  Thomas  Lodge.     Edited  by 


James  O.  Halliwell  .  .  London  .  .  .  1859.    4to. 
Twenty-six  copies  printed. 

LOFTY  BISHOP,  The,  The  Lazy  Brownist,  and  the  Loyall 
Avthor.    Printed  Anno  Dom.  1640.    A  Broadside. 

Printed  in  three  columns,  in  four-line  stanzas. 

LOK,  Hexry.  Ecclesiastes,  Otherwise  called  the  Preacher.  Con- 
taining Salomons  Sermons  or  Commentaries  (as  it  may  probably  be 
collected)  vpon  the  49.  Psalme  of  Dauid  his  father.  Compendiously 
abridged,  and  also  paraphrastically  dilated  in  English  poesie,  accord- 
ing to  the  analogic  of  Scripture,  and  consent  of  the  most  approued 
writer  thereof.  Composed  by  H.  L.  Gentleman.  Whereunto  are  an- 
nexed sundrie  Sonets  of  Christian  Passions  heretofore  printed,  and 
now  corrected  and  augmented,  with  other  affectionate  Sonets  of  a 
feeling  conscience  of  the  same  Authors.  [Quotation  from  Ps.  144. 
3,  4.]  London.  Printed  by  Richard  Field,  dwelling  in  the  Blacke-friers 
neare  Ludgate.    1597.    4to. 

A — V  6  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  Queen  Elizabeth.  The  "  Sundrie  Sonets  of  Christian  Passions"  has 
a  separate  title-page  ;  but  the  signatures  are  continuous. 

This  volume  is  very  fully  described  by  Collier  ("  Bibl.  Cat.,"  i.,  478-82).  The 
present  copy,  in  the  original  vellum  cover,  from  Mr.  Daniel's  library,  has  not  the 
sixty  additional  sonnets  to  which  Mr.  Collier  refers.  They  were  annexed,  doubtless, 
as  an  afterthought.  Of  the  previous  issue  of  the  "  Sonets  of  Christian  Passions," 
mentioned  in  the  title  and  licensed  separately  to  the  same  stationer  in  1 593,  no  copy 
is  known. 

LOMATIUS,  John  Paul.  A  Tracte  containing  the  Artes  of 
curious  Paintinge,  Caruinge  &  Buildinge  written  first  in  Italian  by 
Jo:  Paul  Lomatius  painter  of  Milan  and  englished  by  R.[ichard] 
H.[aydocke.]  student  in  Physik  ....  [Colophon.]  Printed  at  Oxford 
by  Joseph  Barnes  for  R.  H.  Anno  Domini^  M.D.XC.  VIII.    Folio.    R. 

U,  6  leaves  ;  *,  6  leaves  ;  A — K  in  sixes  ;  Aa — Rr  in  si.xes  ;  Ss,  8  leaves.  With 
numerous  engravings  and  diagrams.  Dedicated  by  the  translator  "  To  the  Right 
Worshipful!  Thomas  Bodley  Esqvire." 


862  L  0MB A  RD  US—L  OND  ON. 

The  title-page  is  engraved,  and  contains  portraits  of  the  author  and  the  trans- 
lator. Haydocke's  prefatory  address  "To  the  ingenvovs  reader"  contains  many 
curious  and  interesting  notices  respecting  painters  and  painting.  Speaking  of  the 
restoration  of  old  pictures  in  his  own  day,  he  says :  "  For  my  selfe  have  seene 
divers  goodlie  olde  workes  finely  marred,  with  fresh  and  beawtifuU  colours,  and 
vernishes :  a  singular  argument  (to  say  nothing  of  the  Owners)  of  the  bolde  and 
confident  ignorance  of  the  workemen."  Speaking  of  English  painters  in  his  time, 
he  says  :  "  And  for  their  farther  incouragement,  could  wish  I  had  the  skilful!  pen  of 

George  Vasarie,  to  eternize  tlieir  well-deserving  names  to  all  succeeding  ages 

Then  would  M.  Nicholas  Hilliards  hand,  so  much  admired  amongst  strangers,  striue 
for  a  comparison  with  the  milde  spirit  of  the  late  worldes-wonder  Raphaell  Vrbine  ; 
for  (to  speake  a  truth)  his  perfectio  in  ingenuous  Illuminating  or  Limning,  the  perfec- 
tion of  Painting,  is  (if  I  can  iudge)  so  extraordinarie,  that  when  I  deuised  with  myselfe 
the  best  argument  to  set  it  forth,  I  found  none  better  then  to  perswade  him  to  doe 
it  him  selfe,  to  the  viewe  of  all  men  by  his  pen  ;  as  hee  had  before  vnto  very  many, 
by  his  lerned  pencell :  which  in  the  ende  hee  assented  vnto ;  and  by  mee  promiseth 
you  a  treatise  of  his  owne  Practise  that  way,  with  all  convenient  speede.  Whose 
true  and  liuely  Image  you  may  otherwise  behold,  more  then  reflected  vppon  the 
mirrours  or  glasses,  of  his  two  schollars  M  :  Isaac  Oliver  for  Limming,  and  Rowland 
Lockey  for  Oyle  and  Lim." 

Nicholas  Hilliards'  treatise  here  spoken  of  appears  never  to  have  been  printed, 
and  excepting  a  bare  mention  by  W'alpole,  who  indeed  changes  his  name  from 
Rowland  to  Nicholas,  we  have  no  mention  anywhere  of  Lockey  as  a  painter. 

LOMBARDUS,  Petrus,  Archiep.  Ardmachani.   De  regno  Hiber- 

nise,  Sanctorum  Insula  Commentarius Lovanii,  Apud  Viduam 

Steph.  Martini.    1632.    4to.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  A — Qqq  2  in  fours. 

LONDON.    Statuta  Ciuitatis  Londoniarum.    4to.    BL.  M. 

MS.  of  the  fifteenth  century.  The  above  title  is  followed  by  a  register  which 
extends  to  the  verso  of  the  first  leaf.  The  second  leaf  begins  with  the  following 
title  :— 

"Statuta  felic^  recordacionis  domini  Rogeri  Nigri  EpI  Londoniesis  de  consensu 
dfii  Petri  [Blesensis]  Archidiaconi  London  edita  et  directa  uniusis  Rectoribus 
vicar^  Capellanis  parochialibj  in  Archiediaconatu  {sic)  londofi  constitutis  directa. 
Mo.  CC  .  pmo." 

Then  follows  the  text,  beginning  with  a  large  illuminated  letter  R,  within  which 
is  a  fine  miniature  representing  the  Bishop,  habited  in  a  cope,  between  two  monks. 
Down  the  side  of  the  page  is  a  rich  floriated  border.  The  statutes,  thirty-four  in 
number,  are  of  considerable  interest  in  connection  with  the  ecclesiastical  history  of 
the  diocese.  They  are  followed  by  an  instrument  of  William  [Courtenay],  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  addressed  to  Thomas  Baketon,  LL.D.,  Archdeacon  of  London 
and  Dean  of  the  Arches,  dated  at  "  Lamhithe,"  11  kal.  Dec.  1387,  concerning 
stipendiary  priests.  The  letter  with  which  this  instrument  commences  includes  a 
miniature  of  the  Archbishop  and  two  monks  ;  and  the  Constitution  to  which  it 
refers  begins  with  an  illuminated  letter,  in  which  the  Archbishop  is  represented 
talking  with  two  monks,  enriched,  like  the  other  illuminations,  with  beautiful  mar- 
ginal foliage.  Constitutions  of  Archbishops  Wynchelsee  and  Peckham,  relating  to 
the  furniture  and  ornaments  of  churches,  follow,  together  with  a  note  on  the  threefold 


LONDON.  863 

character  of  excommunication,  and  a  list  of  feasts  to  be  observed,  evidently  in  the 
diocese  of  London.  At  the  end  is  the  name  of  the  scribe,  with  the  date  of  the  MS. 
in  Arabic  numerals  : 

"  Ricardus  Franciscus  Scripsit  Anno  Domini  1447." 

LONDON.  A  Short  and  Serious  Narrative  of  Londons  Fatal 
Fire,  with  its  Diurnal  and  Nocturnal  Progression  from  Sunday  Morn- 
ing (being)  the  second  of  September,  Anno  Rlirabili  1666,  until  Wed- 
nesday night  following.  A  Poem.  As  also  Londons  Lamentations  to 
her  Regardless  Passengers.  London:  Printed  for  Peter  Bring,  at  the 
Sign  of  the  Beaver  in  the  Strand,  between  Ivy-bridge  and  Durham- 
Yard,  w/io  formerly  lived  at  the  Sun  in  Poultrey  in  London.    1667.    4to. 

A — B  2  in  fours. 

At  the  end  of  the  tract  occurs  a  report  by  two  suneyors  of  the  exact  loss  by  the 
Fire.    It  is  stated  that  340  acres  were  laid  waste,  and  130,000  houses  destroyed. 

LONDON.  Londens  Puyn-hoop,  oft  Godts  rechtvaerdige  Straffe 
over  de  selve,  in't  verbranden  der  Stadt,  den  12.  13.  14.  15.  en  16.  van 
Herfstmaent  1666.   Tot  Rotterdam.   1666.    4to. 

Following  the  title  is  a  folding  plate  of  London  in  flames  engraved  by  Justus 
Danckerts. 

LONDON.  It  cannot  Rain  but  it  Pours :  Or,  The  First  Part  of 
London  strow'd  with  Rarities.     Being  a  full  and  true  Account  of  a 

Fierce  and  Wild  Indian  Deer  that  beat  the  breath  out  of  Mr.  U k's 

Body.  As  also  how  Madam  Faustina  the  rare  Singing  Woman  has 
been  taken  Hoarse.  Together  with  a  Lamentable  Story  of  their  being 
Blooded.  And  likewise  a  true  Relation  of  the  Arrival  of  the  two 
Mar\-ellous  Black  Arabian  Ambassadors,  who  are  of  the  same  Country 
■with  the  wonderful  Horse  lately  shewn  in  King-Street.  London. 
1726.    4to. 

In  two  parts,  each  having  six  leaves. 

This  tract  appears  to  be  partly  pohtical,  and  to  be  directed  against  Dean  Swift, 
who  is  referred  to  as  the  "  Copper-Farthing  Dean  from  Ireland." 

LONDON  CHAUNTICLERES,  The.  A  Witty  Comoedy,  Full 
of  Various  and  Delightfull  Mirth.  Often  Acted  with  Great  Applause 
And  never  before  Published.  London,  Printed  for  Simon  Miller,  at  the 
Star  in  St.  Pauls  Chureh-yard.   1659.  4to. 

A — E  in  fours. 

Mr.  Halliwell  ("  Dictionaiy  of  Old  Plays,"  i860,  p.  144)  observes:  "This  piece 
is  rather  an  interlude  than  a  play,  but  it  is  curious,  the  characters  being  London 
criers."  From  a  passage  in  the  prologue  we  may  perhaps  infer  that  the  production 
originally  appeared  during  a  visitation  of  the  plague  in  London,  and  that  it  was  first 
presented  on  some  suburban  or  provincial  stage.  The  metropolis  was  ravaged  by 
pestilence  in  1636,  which  is  a  not  unlikely  date  for  the  composition  and  original 
representation  of  the  piece. 


«64  LONDON— LONG  UE  VI LLE. 

LONDONS  LOVE,  to  the  Royal  Prince  Henrie,  Meeting  him  on 
the  River  of  Thames,  at  his  returne  from  Richmonde,  with  a  worthie 
Fleete  of  her  Cittizens,  on  Thursday  the  last  of  May,  1610.  With  a 
breife  Reporte  of  the  water  Fight,  and  Fire  workes.  London,  Printed 
by  Ed%u.  Allde,for  Nathaniell Fosbrooke,  and  are  to  be  solde  at  the  West- 
end  of  Failles,  neere  to  the  Bishop  of  L  ondons  gate,  1 6 1  o.    4to. 

A— D  in  fours,  D  4  blank,  and  A  i  occupied  only  by  a  woodcut  of  a  ship  on  each 
side. 

From  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Bindley,  Mr.  Rice,  and  Mr.  Corser. 

LONDONS  LOVE,  or.  The  Entertainment  of  the  Parliament. 
Being  a  true  Discription  of  the  great  and  generous  welcome,  given  to 
the  Houses  of  Lords  and  Commons  on  the  19.  day  of  Ian.  at  Grocers- 
Hall,  1641.  by  divers  Citizens  of  good  quality.  Wherein  is  declared 
the  great  and  manifold  expressions  of  Love  betwixt  the  Lords  and 
Commons.  Likewise  the  Citis  Protestation  both  to  the  King  and 
Parliament,  concerning  their  Loyall  affections  and  vnexpressable 
Loves.    London,  Frinted  for  John  Thomas.    1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

LONDONS  WARNING-PEECE,  being  the  Common-Prayers 
Complaint.     Yorke,  Frinted  by  StepJien  Buckley.    1643.    A  folio  sheet. 

In  verse. 

LONG  PARLIAMENT.  A  more  Exact  and  Necessary  Cata- 
logue of  Pensioners  in  the  Long  Parliament,  than  is  yet  extant :  To- 
gether with  their  several  Gratuities,  Rewards,  and  Sallaries,  bestowed 
upon  themselves  out  of  the  Ruins  of  King  and  Kingdom  (not  for 
Secret,  but)  for  Publick  Service  (if  you  will  believe  them)  as  Mr. 
William  Prinn  (a  Member  in  the  same  Parliament,  and  a  restless 
Stickler  in  all  those  Revolutions)  and  the  History  of  Independency, 
(Printed  in  the  Year  1648)  informs  Us.  {About  1648.]  A  Broadside 
in  three  columns. 

All  the  most  distinguished  persons  of  the  time  figure  in  this  list  for  sums  of 
various  magnitude. 

LONG-WINDED  LAY-LECTURE,  A.  Wherein  the  Licen- 
tiousnesse  of  this  Lewd  and  Lying  Age,  in  perverting  the  Sacred 
Texts  of  Scripture,  and  the  Divine  Dictates  of  the  Fathers,  to  the 
scandall  of  the  Church,  and  Ruine  of  our  Nation,  is  Poetically  pre- 
sented ....  By  a  Lover  of  (and  Sufferer  for)  the  Trvth.    Frinted  in 

the  year e  1647.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    In  verse. 

LONGUEVILLE.  La  Vie  de  Madame  la  Duchesse  de  Longue- 
ville.    \_S.  /.]    1738.    2  parts  in  i  vol.    Sm.  8vo.    Y.  M. 


LONGUS— LOPEZ.  865 

LONGUS.  Daphnis  and  Chloe.  Excellently  describing  the  weight 
of  affection,  the  simplicitie  of  loue,  the  purport  of  honest  meaning,  the 
resolution  of  men,  and  disposition  of  Fate,  finished  in  a  Pastorall,  and 
interlaced  with  the  praises  of  a  most  peerlesse  Princesse,  wonderfuU 
in  Maiestie,  and  rare  in  perfection,  celebrated  within  the  same  Pas- 
torall, and  therefore  termed  by  the  name  of  The  Shepheards  Holidaie. 
By  Angell  Daye.  Altior  fortiina  virtus.  At  London  Printed  by  Robert 
Walde-gratie,  &  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Paitles  chiirch-yard  at  the 
signe  of  the  Crane.    1587.    4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Title  and  dedication  to  Sir  William  Hatton,  Knight,  2  leaves  ;  A — Pi  in  fours. 

In  verse  and  prose.  This  book,  of  which  no  other  copy  is  known,  is  a  free  para- 
phrase of  the  original,  with  a  special  interpolation  at  sig.  K  in  honour  of  Queen 
Elizabeth,  to  whom  the  author  pays  homage  in  a  poem  occupying  nine  pages,  called 
"  The  Shepheard's  Holidaie." 

A  full  account  of  the  work  and  of  Angel  Day  is  given  in  Corser's  "  Collectanea," 
part  v.,  pp.  1 14-123.    From  the  collections  of  Dr.  Bliss  and  Mr.  Corser. 

Les  Amours  Pastorales  de  Daphnis  et  de  Chlo6.   [5./.]    1718. 

Svo.    Plates.    Ruled  zvith  gold  lines.    G.  M. 

LOOK   ABOUT   YOU.     A  Pleasant  Commodle,  called   Looke 

about  you.    As  it  was  lately  played  by  the  right  honourable  the  Lord 

High  Admirall  his  seruaunts.   London,  Printed  for  William  Ferb7-and, 

and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  at  the  signe  of  the  Crownc  neere  Giiild-hall 

gate.    1600.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours. 

LOOKING-GLASS  OF  THE  WORLD.  A  Looking-Glasse  of 
the  World,  or,  The  Plundred  Man  in  Ireland.  His  voyage,  his  ob- 
servation of  the  Beasts  of  the  Field,  of  the  Fishes  of  the  Sea,  of  the 
Fowls  of  the  Aire,  of  the  severall  Professions  of  Men,  &c.  London  : 
Printed  by  F.  N.    1644.    4to. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

In  verse.  There  is  no  more  about  Ireland  than  what  is  on  the  title-page.  The 
author  appears  to  be  quite  unknown.     From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

LOOSSBUCH,  zu  ehren  der  Romischen,  Ungerischen  unnd  Boe- 

mischen  Kiinigin.    Getruckt  zu  Strassburg,  bey  Balthassar  Beck.     1546. 

Folio.    Woodcuts. 

Title  and  pp.  1-144. 

LOPEZ  DE  CORELAS,  Alonso.  Trezientas  preguntas  de 
cosas  naturales.  En  diferetes  materias.  Co  sus  respuestas  y  alega- 
ciones  d^auctores,  las  qles  fueron  antes  preguntadas  a  manera  de  perque. 

[Colophon.] Fue  inipresso  enla  nmy  noble  y  felice  villa 

de  Valladolid  {Pincia  otro  tiempo  llaniada)  En  casa  de  Francisco  Fer- 
nandez de  Cordoua  Junto  alas  cscuelas  may  ores.    Acabose  a  quinze  dias 

5  H 


866  LOPEZ— LOREDANO. 

del  mes  de  Nouiebre  A  fio  del  nascimicnto  de  tiuestro  salmdor  Jesu  christo 
d'milly  quinientos  y  quarentay  seys.    4to.    R.  M. 

A— B  in  eights  ;  C,  i6  leaves  ;  D— K  in  eights. 

LOPEZ  DE  MENDOCA.  Prouerbios  dedoynigo  lopez  de  men- 
doga.  [Colophon.]  Fatescen  los  prouerbios  de  don  Yrdgo  lopes  de  medoqa 
Marques  de  Santillana.  Inipssos  en  Sevilla  por  Jacobo  croberger  alevia 
a. XV.  dias  d'l  vies  d'junio :  afio  de  tiro  saliiador  Jesu  xpo  de  mill  i  quini- 
etos  I  diez  t  nueue  aiios.    Folio.    R.  M. 

A — D  in  eights. 

Prouerbios  de  do  Inigo  lopez  de  mendoga :  Marqs  de  Santil- 
lana. [Colophon.]  Fenecen  los  prouerbios  de  don  Yfiigo  lopez  de  medoqa 
MarTjs  de  santillana.  Impresses  en  Sevilla  m  casa  d'  Jua  croberger  a 
quinze  dias  del  mes  de  Enero.  Alio  de  tiro  saluador  Jesu  xpo  d'mil  & 
quinietos  &  treynta  aiios.    Folio.    R. 

Twenty-nine  leaves  including  title. 

LOPEZ,  DoM.  Noticias  Historicas  de  las  tres  fiorentissimas  Pro- 
vincias  del  celeste  Orden  de  la  Santissima  Trinidad,  Redempcion  de 

Cautivos,  en  Inglaterra,  Escocia,  y  Hybernia En  Madrid,  eti  la 

Jtnprenta  Real.  .  .  .   1 7 14.   Folio. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  19  leaves,  including  a  plate  of  arms  ;  folios  1-625  5 
"Tabla,"  14  leaves. 

LORD,  Henry.  A  Disco verie  of  the  Sect  of  the  Banians.  Con- 
taining their  History,  Law,  Liturgie,  Casts,  Customes,  and  Ceremonies. 
Gathered  from  their  Bramanes,  Teachers  of  that  Sect :  As  the'  par- 
ticulars were  comprized  in  the  Booke  of  their  Law,  called  the  Shaster  : 
Together  with  a  display  of  their  Manners,  both  in  times  past,  and  at 

this  present Lotidoti,  Printed  by  T.  and  R.  Cotes,  for  Fra. 

Constable 1630.    4to.    BL.  M. 

A — Y  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank  ;  also  two  leaves  between  A  and  B,  marked  f , 
and  an  engraved  title  by  W.  Marshall.  On  sig.  O  iii  is  a  new  title,  "The  Religion 
of  the  Persees  .  .  .  ." 

The  two  e.xtra  leaves  contain  an  additional  dedication  to  Sir  Maurice  Abbot, 
Governor  of  the  East  India  Company,  the  Deputy-Governor,  and  the  rest  of  the 
adventurers.  It  appears  that  the  author  was  for  some  time  a  resident  in  India,  and 
held  the  office  of  Preacher  to  the  Company. 

LOREDANO,  GlO.  Francesco.  The  Ascents  of  the  Soul :  or, 
David's  Mount  towards  God's  House.  Being  Paraphrases  on  the  Fifteen 
Psalms  of  Degrees.  Written  in  Italian,  By  the  Illustrious  Gio.  Fran- 
cesco Loredano,  a  Noble  Venetian,  1656.  Render'd  into  English,  Anno 
Dom.  1665.  [By  Henry  Hare,  Lord  Coleraine.]  ....  London,  Printed 
by  A.  G.  and  J.  P.  for  Robert  Harford,  at  t/ie  Angel  in  Cornhill,  168 1. 
La  Scala  Santa :   or  A  Scale  of  Devotions  Musical  and  Gradual : 


LORENZANI—LORRIS.  867 

being  Descants  on  the  Fifteen  Psalms  of  Degrees,  in  Metre ;  With 

Contemplations  and  Collects  upon  them,  in  Prose,  1670 Londou, 

Printed  by  A.  Godbid  and  J.  Playford,  Atino  Dom.  168 1.  In  i  vol. 
Folio. 

Though  with  separate  titles,  frontispieces,  and  signatures,  these  two  books  were 
evidently  published  as  one  work.  The  first  part  contains  a  frontispiece,  designed  by 
the  translator,  with  his  monogram  on  a  tablet,  and  engraved  by  Faithorne.  Title 
and  dedication,  in  verse,  "  To  the  most  Honour'd  Lucinda,"  2  leaves;  "To  the 
most  Honour'd  Lucinda,"  in  prose,  followed  by  two  epistles  to  the  reader,  a — c  in 
twos  ;  "In  Psalmorum  Laudem,"  i  leaf;  B — Q  in  twos. 

"La  Scala  Santa"  contains  engraved  frontispiece,  also  designed  by  the  author, 
but  not  engraved  by  Faithorne.     Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  B — Y  in  twos. 

The  volume  has  the  arms  of  Lord  Coleraine  on  the  sides,  and  some  MSS.  cor- 
rections, most  probably  by  him,  as  it  appears  to  have  been  his  own  copy. 

LORENZANI,  Paul.  Motets  a  i.  ii.  iii.  iv.  et  v.  parties  avec 
Symphonies  et  Basse-continue.  Par  Monsieur  Lorenzani,  Maistre  de 
musique  de  la  feue  Reine.  A  Paris,  Chez  Cliristophe  Ballard,  seul 
Imprirneur  dii  Roy  pour  la  Musique,  rue  Saint  Jean  de  Beauvais,  au 
Mont-Parnasse.    1693.    Complete  in  1 1  parts.    4to. 

These  parts  consist  of — i.  Premier  dessus,  36  leaves.  2.  Premier  dessus  de 
Violon,  32  leaves.  3.  Second  dessus,  26  leaves.  4.  Second  dessus  de  Violon,  32 
leaves.  5.  Haute  contre,  24  leaves.  6.  Dessus  et  Haute-contre  du  Grand  Choeur, 
20  leaves.  7.  Basse,  20  leaves.  8.  Basse  de  Violon,  50  leaves.  9.  Basse-continue, 
62  leaves.  10.  Haute-taille,  22  leaves.  11.  Taille  et  Basse  du  Grand  Choeur, 
20  leaves. 

This  rare  work  is  undescribed  by  either  Brunei  or  Fetis,  though  the  latter  men- 
tions that  a  book  of  Motets  for  four  voices  was  printed  at  Paris  for  Lorenzani,  by 
Christopher  Ballard  in  1679.  The  author  was  by  birth  a  Roman,  and  successively 
chapel-master  at  the  Jesuits'  Church  in  Rome,  the  Cathedral  of  Messina,  and  ulti- 
mately at  the  Basilica  of  the  Vatican.     He  died  in  1703. 

LORRIS,  GuiLLAUME  DE.  Le  rommant  de  la  rose  imprime  a 
Paris.    [5.^.] 

[At  the  end]  Cest  fin  du  rommant  de  la  rose 

Ou  lart  damours  est  toute  enclose. 
Folio.    Woodcuts.    Black  letter.    R,  M. 

a — t  vi  in  eights. 

This  edition  was  printed  by  "Jehan  du  pre,"  about  1493.  The  binding  is  a  fine 
specimen  of  the  work  of  MM.  Hardy-Mennil  and  Marius  Michel. 

Le  Rommant  de  la  Rose   nouuellement  Reueu  et   corrige 

oultre  les  precedentes  Impressions.    On  le  vend  a  Paris  par  Galliot  du 

pre [Colophon.]  .  .  .  Et  imprime  a  Paris,  par  maistre  Pierre 

vidoue.  Pour  Galliot  du  pre  .  .  .  Aumoys  de  Mars, mil  cinq  centz.  jKxix. 
auant  pasques.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves ;  folios  i.-cccciii.,  and  a  leaf  bearing  only  the 
printer's  device  on  the  verso,  the  recto  blank. 


868  LORRIS—LOVE. 

LORRIS,  GUILLAUME  DE.  Lc  rommant  de  la  Rose  nouuellement 
rcucu  ct  corrige  oultre  les  preccdentes  Impressions.  Iviprime  a  Paris 
pour  uiaistre  Pierre  vidoue  donourant  devant  le  collicge  de  Reins.  1538. 
Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

Cest  le  romant  de  la  rose 

Moralise  cler  et  net 

Traslate  de  rime  en  prose 

Par  vostre  huble  molinet. 
[Colophon.]  Cy  fiiiist  lc  Romant  de  la  Rose  traslate  de  ryntc  en  prose 
Jniprime  a  Lyon  Lan  Mil  cinq  cens  7  trois  par  viaistre  Guillaiune  bal- 
sarin  librairex  Imprimeur,  demonrat  en  la  Rue  merciere pres  sainct  A71- 
tlioinc,  autrenient  corrigexaniande  quil  ncstoit par  deuant,  come  il  appcrt 
clcrement  en  diners  passaigcs  1  chapiircs.  Folio.  Woodcuts.  Black 
letter.    R.  M. 

LOTARIUS.  Ein  schone  warhaftige  Hystory  von  KeiserKarolus 
sun  genant  Loher  oder  Lotarius  wie  er  verbant  ward  siben  iar  usz 
dem  kiinigreich  vnd  wie  er  sich  die  selbig  zeit  so  ritterlich  bruchte,  das 
er  zuletst  Romscher  keiser,  vnd  im  vszgeschniten  ward.    [Colophon.] 

Vnd  ist  diss  Buck  getruckt  in  der  frycn  stat  Straszburg  vd  Johanes 
grieninger  vff  samstag  vor  d"  Herreti  fast  naclit  im  iar.     15 14.    Folio. 

Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

A — X  in  sixes  except  sig.  T,  which  has  four  leaves.  The  folios  are  most  irre- 
gular. The  title  forms  A  i.  Brunei  speaks  of  the  book  as  "  extraordinairement 
rare,"  vol.  iii.,  col.  232,  where  it  is  placed  under  "  History."  Panzer  also  testifies  to 
the  rarity  of  the  volume  in  his  "  Annalen  der  iiltern  deutschen  Litteratur,"  and 
knew  of  it  only  in  time  to  place  it  in  the  supplement  to  his  work.  It  appears  that 
Brunei  and  Graesse  knew  of  the  book  only  through  Panzer,  as  neither  of  them 
give  any  particulars  about  il. 

LOUIS  XIV.  Copia  de  Carta  del  Rey  Christianissimo  Luis 
Dezimoquarto  d  la  Reyna  nuestra  senora,  y  senores  de  Govierno. 
EnValladolid por  Antonia  Figueroa.    1700.    4to. 

Two  leaves. 

LOVE  AND  TRUTH  :  in  Two  modest  and  peaceable  Letters. 
Concerning  The  distempers  of  the  present  Times.  Written  From  a  quiet 
and  Conformable  Citizen  of  London,  to  two  busie  and  Factious  Shop- 
keepers in  Coventry.  [Quotation  from  i  Peter  iv.  15.]  London,  Printed 
by  M.  C.  for  Henry  Brome  at  the  Gun  in  St.  Pauls  Church-yard. 
1680.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — E  in  fours. 

In  this  copy  the  dedication  is  in  two  forms,  sig.  A  2  being  in  duplicate.  In  the 
first  it  is  subscribed  "N.  N."  and  directed  "to  Mr.  Henry  Brome  in  St.  Paul's 
Churchyard,  London,"  while  the  other  is  supeiscribed  merely  "The  Author  to  the 


LOVE— LOWER.  869 

Stationer,"  and  has  no  signature.  The  alterations  were  made  at  press,  as  the  set- 
ting-up is  the  same.  The  first  letter  purports  to  have  been  written  in  1667,  the 
second  in  1679. 

The  present  copy  belonged  to  Mr.  Pickering  the  bookseller,  and  has  on  the  fly- 
leaf the  following  note  in  his  handwriting  :  "  In  Emanuel  College,  Cambridge,  is  a 
volume  of  Tracts  formerly  Archbishop  Sancroft's.  In  the  MS.  Contents  by  San- 
croft  is  written,  '  Walton,  Is.  Two  Letters  on  y'  distempers  of  y'  Times.'  In  the 
Advertisement  of  The  Author  to  the  Stationer  the  printed  word  Author  is  erased 
and  over  it  written  liy  Isaak  Walton  '  Publisher^  from  which  I  infer  that  Walton 
was  the  Editor  and  not  the  writer  of  the  two  letters.  See  Nicolas's  Life,  p.  loi. 
Dr.  Zouch  has  reprinted  the  tract  as  Walton's  at  the  end  of  his  edition  of  Walton's 
Lives,  from  the  copy  in  Emanuel  College,  which  he  believed  to  be  unique.  This 
copy  has  the  dedicatory  Letter  in  two  forms  ....  " — "  W.  Pickering,  Dec.  25, 
1850." 

LOVES  SCHOOL  Or  A  New  merry  Book  of  Complements. 
Being  the  Language  of  Love,  fitted  to  the  humours  of  all  sorts,  Sexes, 
and  Conditions :  Made  up  of  curious  and  pleasant  Dialogues  and  Dis- 
courses, eloquent  and  delicious  Letters,  Songs  and  Sonnets.  With 
many  other  fine  Fantacies  and  pretty  Conceits. 

Once  learn  to  Love,  the  Lesson  is  most  plain, 
And  being  learnt  will  neer  be  lost  again. 

Printed  for  W.  Tliackcry  at  the  Angel  in  Duck-lane.  1674.  Sm.  8vo. 
Black  letter. 

A — B  4  in  eights.  In  verse  and  prose.  With  cuts  and  a  figure  of  a  lover  on 
the  title. 

The  woodcut  on  the  title  served  in  165 1  as  a  portrait  of  Captain  Hind  the  high- 
wayman ;  see  his  "  Declaration,"  &c.,  4to,  165 1. 

LOVELACE,  Richard.  Lucasta  :  Epodes,  Odes,  Sonnets,  Songs, 
&c.  To  which  is  added  Aramantha,  a  Pastorall.  By  Richard  Love- 
lace, Esq.  London,  Printed  by  Tho.  Harper,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  The. 
Ewster,  at  the  Gun,  in  Puie  Lane.    1649.    Sm.  8vo. 

a,  8  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves,  the  last  blank  ;  B — M  4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank, 
and  the  last  but  one  having  the  table  of  contents.  Also  an  engraved  title  and  plate 
by  W.  Faithorne,  both  after  Lely. 

From  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Perry,  Mr.  Haslewood,  and  Mr.  G.  Daniel.  This 
includes  all  the  poet's  best  productions  ;  but  after  his  death  his  brother  collected 
some  pieces  not  hitherto  edited,  and  (with  a  few  elegies  on  Lovelace's  death)  formed 
them  into  a  volume  printed  in  1659. 

LOWER,  Sir  William.  The  Phaenix  in  her  Flames.  A  Tra- 
gedy. The  Scene,  Arabia.  The  Author,  Master  William  Lower. 
London,  Printed  by  Thomas  Harper,  for  Michael  Young;  1639.    4^0- 

A — M  in  fours. 

Dedicated  "To  the  Right  Worshipfvll,  my  Most  honoured  Cosin,  Thomas 
Lower  Esquire." 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 


870  LOWER— LOZANO. 

LOWER,  Sir  William.  The  Enchanted  Lovers :  a  Pastoral. 
By  S' William  Lower  Knight.  Amico  Rosa,  Inimico  Spina.  Hage : 
Printed  by  Adrian  Vlack,  1658.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A— E  4  in  twelves,  including  the  frontispiece.  With  a  small  slip  of  errata 
inserted  at  the  end. 

To  the  present  copy  is  added  a  duplicate  title,  and  a  portrait  of  the  author  sur- 
mounted by  his  arms.  The  imprint  of  this  second  title  is  "  London,  Printed  for 
Henry  Herringman  .  .  .  1659." 

The  Noble  Ingratitude.    A  Pastoral-Tragi-Comedy.    By  Sr. 

William  Lower  Knight  ....  Hage,  Imprinted  by  lohn  Ramzey,  1659. 

Sm.  8vo. 

A — E  3  in  twelves,  first  leaf  blank. 

The  Amorous  Fantasme,  A  Tragi-Comedy.    By  Sr.  William 

Lower  Knight Hage,  Imprinted  by  Johi  Ramzey,  Anno  1660. 

Sm.  8vo. 

A — D  in  twelves,  including  the  frontispiece. 

LOWICK,  THOMA.S.  The  History  of  the  Life  &  Martyrdom  of 
St.  George,  the  Titular  Patron  of  England  :  With  his  Conversion  of 
Arabia  by  killing  of  a  dreadful  Dragon,  and  delivering  the  Kings 
Daughter.  London,  Printed  by  jf.  Best  for  William  Crook,  at  the  three 
Bibles  on  Fleet-Bridge,  1664.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — H  in  fours.     In  verse. 

Mr.  Corsei-'s  copy.  The  author  assigns,  as  his  reason  for  undertaking  the 
■work,  that  he  had  read  so  many  lying  books  of  great  St.  George,  which  obscured 
his  worth. 

LOWTH,  Robert,  Bishop  of  Oxford.  The  Life  of  William  of 
Wykeham,  Bishop  of  Winchester.  Collected  from  Records,  Registers, 
Manuscripts,  and  other  authentic  Evidences.  The  Third  Edition  Cor- 
rected .  .  .  Oxford.  1777.  8vo.  With  a  frontispiece  and  folding 
pedigree. 

LOZANO,  Pedro.  Descripcion  Chorographica  del  Terreno,  Rios, 

Arboles,  y  Animales  de  las  dilatadissimas  Provincias  del  gran  Chaco, 

Gualamba :  y  de  los  ritos,  y  costumbres  de  las  innumerables  Naciones 

barbaras,  e  infieles,  que  le  habitan  :  con  una  cabal  relacion  historica  de 

lo  que  en  ellas  han  obrado  para  conquistarlas  algunos  Governadores, 

y  Ministros  Reales :  y  los  Missioneros  Jesuitas  para  reducirlas  a  la  Fe 

del  verdadero  Dios Afio  de  1733.    En  Cordoba:  En  el  Colegio 

de  la  Assianpcion  :  por  Joseph  Santos  Balbas.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  pp.  1-485.  Two  leaves  of  index  not  paged, 
and  a  large  folding  map. 

LOZANO  Y  REGALADO,  Caspar.  Loores  de  los  Santos  de 
quien  reza  y  haze  comemoracion  la  Yglesia  de  Roma,  y  las  de  Espaiia, 


LUCAN  US~L  UCIA  N  US.  87 1 

con  los  Santos  que  en  particular  celebra  la  de  Leon,  per  los  meses  del 
ano En  Valladolid por  Jtian  de  Rueda.    1619.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  folios  1-305  ;  table,  8  leaves. 

LUCANUS.     Pharsalia.    [Praecedit  Lucani  vita  ex  commentario 
antiquissimo.    Sine  ulld  7iotd.]    Folio.    R.  M. 

This  edition,  printed  in  a  thin  Roman  letter,  contains  106  leaves  effort)'  lines 
each.  By  Hain,  No.  10227,  't  is  attributed  to  the  press  of  Franciscus  Renner  de 
Hailbrunn  at  Venice. 

M.  Annei  Lucani  Vita  ex  commentario  antiquiss.    [On  recto 


of  the  fourth  leaf]    M.  Annei.  Lucani.  Cordubensis.  Pharsaliae  :  liber 
:  primus.    [St'/w  ulla  notd.]    Folio.    O.  M. 

Four  preliminary  leaves  ;  sigs.  a — n  in  eights  ;  o — p,  6  leaves  each,  the  last 
blank. 

Lucanus.     [Colophon.]      Venetiis  apvd  Aldvm  mense  Aprili. 

M.DII.     Svo.     R.  M. 

a — s  4  in  eights. 

Lvcans  Pharsalia :  containing  The  Ciuill  Warres  betweene 


Cffisar  and  Pompey.  Written  In  Latine  Heroicall  Verse  by  M. 
AnnsEvs  Lvcanvs.  Translated  into  English  verse  by  Sir  Arthur 
Gorges  Knight.  Whereunto  is  annexed  the  life  of  the  Authour,  col- 
lected out  of  diuers  Authors.  Fides  fortibiis  fraus  formidolosis.  London 
printed  for  T.  T/wrp.    16 14.    Folio. 

A — Qq  in  sixes,  title  on  A  2. 

From  the  dedication  addressed  by  Carew  Gorges  to  Lucy,  Countess  of  Bedford, 
it  appears  that  this  version  of  Lucan,  the  earliest  complete  one  in  English,  was 
executed  some  time  before  it  was  committed  to  the  press.  Carew  Gorges  states  that 
he  found  the  MS.  lying  idly  by  in  his  father's  study,  and  obtained  his  leave  to  get  it 
printed  with  the  assistance  of  his  schoolmaster.  He  speaks  of  her  ladyship  as  an 
honourable  lover  and  patroness  of  learning  and  the  Muses,  an  instinct  naturally 
engrafted  in  her  "  by  that  worthy  blood  of  the  Sydneyes." 

LUCIANUS  SAMOSATENUS.  AOYKIANOY  SAMOSATEQS 
AIAAOrOI.    [Colophon.]  Er  <p\apevTia.  ....   1496.    Folio.    R. 

This  is  one  of  the  copies  to  which  a  Latin  title  was  added  at  a  later  date,  as 
described  by  Brunet.    The  binding  is  a  specimen  of  Roger  Payne's  work. 

Opera  [Graece  et  Latine,]  J.  Benedictvs emendavit. 

Salmvrii.    16 19.    2  vols.    Svo. 

Opera,    [Gr.  et  Lat.]  cum  notis  variorum.  Amstelod.    1687. 

2  vols.     Svo.    R.  M. 


872  L  UCIANUS—L  UCRETIUS. 

LUCIANUS  SAMOSATENUS.    Opera,  cum  nova  versione  T. 

Hemsterhusii,  &  lo.   M.   Gesneri  graecis  scholiis,  ac  notis   omnium 

proximae  editionis  Commentatorum  ....  Amstelod.    1743.    4  vols. 

4to.    Large  paper.    EL.  M. 

From  the  Lamoignon  library. 

LUCIDAIRE.     Le  Luciclaire     \Sans  lieu  ni  dafe.]    4to.    £/aek 

letter.    R.  M. 

This  is  the  edition  of  thirty-two  leaves,  with  twenty-eight  lines  to  the  page,  and  is, 
in  M.  Brunei's  opinion,  from  one  of  the  Lyonnese  presses.  An  earlier  edition  gives 
the  following  more  descriptive  title:  "  Ci  commence  le  liure  qui  est  apelle  le  liure 
du  lucidaire  dun  homme  qui  enseigna  a  un  ieune  disciple  des  oeuures  q  Dieu  fit, 
et  comment  ce  monde  fut  establi,  et  a  quelle  fin  viendra,  commet  il  trespassera, 
comment  Ad.^  fut  fait  et  forme,  du  deluge,  de  Noe  et  de  ceux  qui  en  descediret, 
come  Abraha,  Moyse,  Dauid,  de  la  circoncisio  du  batesme  et  des  signes  q  vien- 
dront  deuant  le  iour  du  iugement,  et  le  fit  certain  de  toutes  les  choses  quil  luy 
demanda." 

LUCIFERS  LACKY,  or.  The  Devils  new  Creature.  Being  The 
true  Character  of  a  dissembling  Brownist,  whose  life  is  hypocriticall, 
instructions  Schisniaticall,  thoughts  dangerous.  Actions  malicious,  and 
opinions  impious.  With  the  Relation  of  their  repulse  from  the  Parlia- 
ment house  upon  Thursday  the  4.  of  December  And  the  reason  why 
Constables  had  warrants  in  the  City  and  Liberties  of  London  to  take 
up  men  to  guard  the  Parliament-house  upon  Friday  the  12.  of  De- 
cember, 1 64 1.    London,  Printed  for  John  Grecnsmith,  1641.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    The  last  leaf  has  only  a  woodcut  with  these  two  lines  underneath: 
When  Women  Preach,  and  Coblers  Pray, 
The  fiends  in  Hell,  make  holiday. 

From  Mr.  Daniel's  collection. 

LUCRETIUS.  T.  Lucreti  \sic\  Cari.  poetae  philosophic!  anti- 
quissimi  de  rerum  natura  liber  primus  incipit  foeliciter. 

[Colophon.]  Panlus  htinc  inipressit  fridenpej-gcr  in  uerona. 
Qui  genitiis  est  in  Patauia  alee  magncB. 
Ab  incarnatione  cJiristi :  Mcccclxxxvi 
Die  uigcsinio  octauo  septembris  calen.  octobris. 
Folio.    BR.  M. 

A — M  in  eights,  the  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

Second  edition.  The  first  was  printed  about  1473,  and  is  believed  to  have  been 
executed  at  Brescia.  From  so  long  a  period  elapsing  between  the  first  and  second 
impressions  it  would  appear  that  the  author  excited  but  little  interest.  Of  most  of 
the  classic  poets  the  editions  followed  in  much  more  rapid  succession. 

T.  Lucretii  Cari,  libri  sex  nvper  emendati.  [Hieronymi  Auancii 

Veronensis  ingenioet  labore.]    [Colophon.]    Venetiis,accuratiss.   Apud 
Aldfi,  mense  Decern.  M.D.    4to.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves ;  a — n  6  in  eights. 


Z  UCRETIUS—L  VMINALIA.  873 

LUCRETIUS.    Lvcretivs.   [Colophon.]    Vcnetiis  in  aedibits  Aldi, 
ct  Andreae  Soceri  vtense  lamiario  M.D.XV.    8\'o.    BR.  M. 

De  Rerum  Natura  Libri  se.x  cum  notis  D.  Lambini  .... 


aliorumquc  curante  S.  Havercampo  ....    Lugd.  Bat.     1725.    2  vols. 
4to.    Large  paper.    R.  M. 

LUDOLPHUS  DE  SUCHEN.  Iter  ad  terram  sanctam,  [At 
the  end.]  Anno  dnl  M"  ccc(f  xxxvi' Scriptus  est  prcsciis  liber  et  finitus 
Sab" post  Jidiane  iginis  i^  mr.    4to. 

MS.  on  paper. 

— — ■  [On  the  recto  of  the  second  leaf.]    De  terra  sancta  et  irinere 


jherosolomitano  et  de  statu  eius  et  alijs  mirabilibus  que  in  mari  con- 
spiciutur  videlicet  mediterraneo.  [On  folio  34  verso.]  Finit  fcliciter 
libellus  de  jtinere  ad  terrain  sanctam,  &c.    \_Sine  tilld  notd.]    Folio. 

This  is  the  edition  of  thirty-four  leaves,  printed  with  long  hnes,  except  the  first 
leaf,  which  contains  the  Register.  Brunei  describes  it  as  having  forty-two  lines  to  a 
full  page  ;  but  it  has  really  only  forty-one  lines.  It  is  possible  that  there  are  two 
editions  with  long  lines,  one  having  forty-two  and  the  other  forty-one.  This  is  all 
the  more  probable  as  the  spelling  in  the  title,  as  given  by  Brunet,  differs  from  this 
copy.  Brunet  gives  "jhierosolymitano,"  which  is  quite  different  from  the  copy  here 
described.     It  is  attributed  to  the  press  of  H.  Eggesteyn  of  Strasburg. 

[On  the  recto  of  the  second  leaf]     De  terra  sancta  et  itinere 


iherosolomitano  et  de  statu  ei^  et  aliis  mirabilibus  que  in  mari  con- 
spiciuntur  videlicet  mediteraneo.  [On  folio  34.]  Finit  feliciter  libellus 
de  itinere  ad  terram  sanctam.    [Sine  uUa  nota?[    Folio.    BR.  M. 

This  edition  consists  also  of  thirty-four  leaves,  the  first  being  "  Registru  de 
itinere  ad  teiTa  sancta."  It  is  printed  in  double  columns,  and  has  forty-two  lines 
to  a  full  page,  as  stated  by  Hain,  though  Brunet  describes  it  as  having  only  forty- 
one  lines.    It  is  no  doubt  also  from  the  press  of  H.  Eggesteyn  of  Strasburg. 

LUDUS  Septem  Sapientum,  de  Astrei  regii  adolescentis  educa- 
tione,  periculis,  liberatione,  Insigni  Exemplorum  amoenitate,  Iconumc^ 
elegantia  illustratus :  antehac  Latino  idiomate  in  lucem  nunquam  editus. 
....  [Colophon.]  Impressiun  Francoforti  ad  Moenuvi,  apiid  Paiduin 
Reffeler,  Impensis  Sigismundi  Feyrabent  \s.  «■.]  Sm.  8vo.  Wood- 
cuts.   O.  M. 

A — X  in  eights. 

LVMINALIA,  or  The  Festivall  of  Light.  Personated  in  a 
Masque  at  Court,  By  the  Queenes  Majestie,  and  her  Ladies.  On 
Shrovetuesday  Night,  1637.  London,  Printed  by  John  Haviland  for 
Thomas  Walkley,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  at  the  Flying  Horse 
neere  Yorke  house,  1637.    4to.    BL.  M. 

A — C  3  in  fours,  and  the  title-page. 
51 


874  L  UPSE  T—L  UP  TON. 

LUPSET,  Thomas.  Tho.  Lupsets  workes.  Londini.  Anno. 
M.D.XLVI.  [Coloi  hon.]  Londini  in  cedibus  Tlwma  Berthdeti  typis 
impress.  C:im  priuiUgio  ....  Anno.  M.  D.  XLVI.  Sm.  8vo.  Black 
letter. 

A — D  iv  in  eights,  including  the  title. 

The  first  edition.  At  the  back  of  the  title  is  given  "  The  contentes  of  this  boke. 
A  treatise  of  charitie.  An  exhortacion  to  young  men,  perswad\  ng  them  to  walke  in 
the  pathe  waie  that  leade th  to  honestee  and  goodnes.  A  compendious  treatise, 
teachyng  the  waie  of  dieyng  well.  A  sermon  of  Chrysostome,  that,  No  man  is 
hurte  but  of  h)nii  selfe.  A  swete  sermon  of  .S.  Cyprian  of  the  mortalitee  of  man. 
Tlie  rules  of  a  Christian  lyfe  made  by  Johii  Piciis  the  eldre  Erie  of  Mirandula. 
Gathered  counsels  out  of  Saynt  Isidore." 

Tho.  Lunsets  workes.    Anno  domini.  M.  D.  LX.    [Colophon.] 


Impryntcdat  London.  inPaules  churclteyearde,  at  the  signe  of  the  Swanne, 
by  Jhon  kynge.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

A — Dd  4  in  eights.     The  title  is  within  a  woodcut  border. 

A  Compendiovs  and  a  very  Fn'tefvl  Treat5'se  teachynge  the 


waye  of  Dyenge  well,  writen  to  a  frende,  by  the  flowre  of  lerned  men 
of  his  tyme,  Thomas  Lupsete  Londoner,  late  deceassed,  on  whose 
sowle  Jesu  haue  mercy.  [Colophon.]  Londini  ex  edibns  Thovice  Ber- 
tiieleti  regii  impressoris.  Cnvi  PriuiUgio  ....  Anno.  J\I.D.  XLI.  Sm. 
8vo.    Black  letter. 

A — E  in  eights,  and  two  extra  leaves  after  E  8  unsigned. 

LUPTON,  DoXALD.  Emblems  of  Rarities  :  or  Choyce  Observa- 
tions out  of  worthy  Histories  of  many  remarkable  passages,  and  re- 
nowned actions  of  divers  Princes  and  severall  Nations.  \\'ith  Exquisite 
Variety,  and  speciall  Collections  of  the  natures  of  most  sorts  of  Crea- 
tures :  delightfull  and  profitable  to  the  Minde  ....  Collected  by 
D.  L.    London :  Printed  by  N.  Okes.     1636.     Sm.  Svo.    R.  M. 

A — X  in  twelves,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  Worshipfull,  and  truely  Generous  Captaines :  Capt.  Nicholas 
Crips.  Capt.  James  Slade.  and  Capt.  Samvel  Carleton." 

The  History  of  the  ?kIoderne  Protestant  Divines,  Containing 

their  Parents,  Countries,  Education,  Studies,  Lives,  and  the  yeare  of 
our  Lord  in  which  they  dyed.  With  a  true  register  of  all  their  severall 
Treatises,  and  ^Vritings  that  are  e.xtant.  Faithfully  translated  out  of 
Latine  by  D.[onald]  L.[upton].  London:  Printed  by  N.  and  John 
Okes,  1637.    Sm.  Svo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  16  leaves,  including  the  frontispiece,  the  first  blank  ; 
B— Aa  6  in  eij;hts.     A  series  of  portraits  on  the  letterpress. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Paul  Pindar,  Sir  JohnWolstenholme,  Sir  Abraham  Dawes,  and 
Sir  John  Jacob,  Farmers  of  the  Custome-House. 


I 


L  UP  TON.  8;  5 

LUPTON,  Donald.  The  Glory  of  their  Times.  Or  The  Liues 
of  y  Primitiue  Fathers.  Cotayning  their  Chiefest  Actions,  workes, 
Sentences,  and  Deaths  ....  London,  Printed  by  I.  Okcs,  and  are  to 
be  sold  in  Pauls  Church-yard  at  the  white  Lyon.    1 640.    4to. 

A — Xxx  in  fours,  the  title  engraved  by  G.  Glover,  and  a  series  of  portraits  on  the 
letterpress,  probably  by  the  saine  hand. 

LUPTON,  Thomas.    Sivqila.    Too  good  to  be  true : 

Omen. 
Though  so  at  a  vewe, 
Yet  all  that  I  tolde  you, 
Is  true,  I  vphold  you  : 
Now  cease  to  aske  why, 
For  I  can  not  lye. 
Herein  is  shewed  by  way  of  Dialogue,  the  wonderfull  maners  of  the 
people  of  Mauqsun,  with  other  talke  not  friuolous.    Scene  and  allowed 
according  to  the  order  appointed.    Imprinted  at  london  by  A  bell  Jeffs, 
dwelling  in  the  forestreet  without  Creplegate  at  the  signe  of  the  Bell. 
1587.    4to.    Black  letter. 
A — Z  in  fours. 

The  first  edition  appeared  in  1580,  the  second  in  1584;  this  is  the  third.  Dedi- 
cated to  Sir  Christopher  Hatton,  Captain  of  her  Majesty's  Guard. 

The  Second  part  and  Knitting  vp  of  the  Boke  entituled  Too 

good  to  be  true.  Wherin  is  continued  the  discourse  of  the  wonderfull 
Lawes,  commendable  customes,  &  strange  manners  of  the  people  of 
Mauqsun.  Newely  penned  and  published  by  Thomas  Lvpton.  At 
London :  Printed  by  Henry  Binneman.  Anno  Domini.  1581.  Cum  Pri- 
uilegio.     Septembris.  6.    4to.    Black  Itcter.    R.  M. 

A — Cc  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  William  Cecil,  whose  arms  occur  on  the  back  of  the  title. 

This  is  the  first  edition  of  Part  ii. 

A  Persuasion  from  Papistrie :  Wrytten  chiefely  to  the  obsti- 
nate, determined,  and  dysobedient  English  Papists,  who  are  herein 
named  &  proued  english  Enimies  and  extreme  Enimies  to  Englande. 

At  London,  Imprinted  by  Henrie  Bynneman  divelling  in  Thainis 

Streete  neare  Baynards  Castel.  Anno.  1581.  Cum priuilegio  .  .  .  4to. 
Black  letter.    R. 

a,  2  leaves,  the  title  within  a  woodcut  border  ;  A — Rr  in  fours,  the  last  leaf 
having  the  printer's  device. 

The  dedication  is  addressed  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  whose  arms  are  on  the  reverse 
of  the  title. 

A  thousand  Notable  things  of  sundrie  sortes  :  Whereof  some 


are  wonderfull,  some  strange,  some  pleasant,  diuers  necessary,  a  great 
sort  profitable,  and  many  very  precious. 


876  L  US  S  A  N—L  U  THER. 

This  Rooke  bewraies  that  some  had  rather  hide, 

which  wiioso  buyes,  their  money  is  not  lost : 
For  many  a  thing  therein  if  truely  tride, 

will  gaine  much  more  then  twenty  such  will  cost. 
And  diuers  else  great  secrets  will  detect, 

and  other  more  of  strange  and  rare  effect. 
It  is  not  made  to  please  some  one  degree, 

no,  no,  nor  j-et  to  bring  a  gaine  to  few  : 
For  each  thereby,  how  rich  or  poore  they  be, 

may  reape  much  good,  and  mischiefe  great  eschew. 
The  paines  and  trauell  hitherto  is  mine, 

the  gaine  and  pleasure  henceforth  will  be  thine. 
Loudon,  Printed  by  E.  All-de  for  N.  Fosbrooke,  by  the  Assigues  of  To  : 
Wright  and  R.  Bird.     1627.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — Gg  in  fours. 

A  curious  miscellany  of  information,  collected,  as  the  author's  preface  states, 
from  Latin  writers,  from  old  English  written  books,  and  from  works  in  the  same 
language,  which  had  more  or  less  recently  appeared.  The  lirst  edition  was  without 
date;  but  it  was  licensed  to  the  stationer,  whose  name  it  bears,  in  1579. 

From  the  collections  of  Dr.  Farmer,  Mr.  Bindley,  and  George  Steevens. 

LUSSAN,  Raveneau  de.    Journal  du  Voyage  fait  a  la  Mer  de 
Sud,  avec  les  Flibustiers  de  I'Amerique  En  1684.  &  annees  suivantes. 
A  Paris,  Chez  Jean  Baptistc  Coignard,  .  .  .   1690.    Sm.  8vo. 
Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-272. 

LUSTIGER  SPRUCH.  Eyn  Lustiger  spruch  von  der  Bulschafft, 
inn  Jagens  weisz  gestellet,  mitt  seinen  jager  spruchen,  Hirsztritten, 
vnd  wesz  sich,  hochwild  zujagcn  gehalten  wirdt.  {O.  0.  u.  J.]  4to. 
Woodcuts. 

Sixteen  leaves.     In  verse.     Probably  printed  at  Nuremberg  about  1530. 

LUTHER,  Martinus.  Dispvtatio  D.  Martini  Lvther  Theologi, 
pro  declaratione  virtvtis  Indvlgentiarvin.  [This  title  is  printed  in 
capitals.  On  the  back  of  it  the  piece  begins  with  the  following  head- 
ing :]  Amore  et  stvdio  elvcidandae  ueritatis  haec  subscripta  disputa- 
bunt  Vuittenbergffi,  Praesidete  R.  P.  Martino  Luther,  Artiu  &  S.  Theo- 
logiae  Magistro,  eiusdemq^  ibidem  lectore  Ordinatio.  Quare  petit  ut 
qui  non  possunt  uerbis  praesentcs  nobiscum  disceptare,  agant  id  Uteris 
absentes.  In  nomine  domini  nostri  lesu  Christi.  Amen.  [At  the 
end  of  the  seventh  page.]     M.D.XVII.     4to. 

Four  leaves. 

This  is  the  first  edition  of  Luther's  famous  Theses  against  I  ndulgences  in  pamphlet 
form.     They  had  been  previously  printed  as  a  broadside. 

Eyn  Sermon  von   dem   Ablasz  vnd  gnade,  durch  den  wir- 


digen  doctoru  Martinu  Luther  Augustiner  zu  VVittenbergk  gemacht. 


L  UTHER.  877 

Getriickt  Nach  Christ gebiirt  Tausent funff  hundert  vndym  achtzehenden 

Jar.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

LUTHER,  MartinuS.  Ain  anzaigung  wie  D.  Martinus  Luther 
zu  Wurms  auff  dem  Reichs  sag  eingefaren  durch  K.  M.  in  aygner 
person  verhort  vnd  mit  im  daraufif  gehandelt.    \0.  O.  u.  y.]    4to. 

On  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  Luther  disputing  with  the  Pope,  Cardinals.  &c. 

Contra  Henricvm  Regem  Angliae  Martinvs  Luther.     Wit- 

tembergae.    1522.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours. 

The  first  edition  of  "  Luther's  answer  to  Henry  VI IL"  This  copy  is  particularly 
valuable  as  being  a  presentation  copy  from  the  author  with  dedication  "  D.  Mgr 
Sebaldus  "  and  other  words  in  his  autograph,  but  without  his  signature. 

Antwortt  deutsch  Mart.  Luthers  auff  Konig  Henrichs  von 

Engelland  buch.     Lugen  thun  myr  nicht,  Warheyt  schew  ich  nicht. 

[Colophon.]      Gedruckt    tzii    Witleniberg,    durch    Nickell   Schyrlentz. 

M.D.XXii.    4to. 

A— F  in  fours. 

De  Abroganda  Missa  Privata  Martini  Lutheri  sententia.  [Co- 


lophon.]   Impressvm    Wittembergae  incnse  lanuario  An.  M.  D.  XXII. 

4to. 

A — L  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Ain  betbiichlin.     Der  Zehen  gcpott.     Des  Glaubens.     Des 


Vatter  vnsers.    Vnd  des  Aue  Marien.    D.  Martini  Lutheri.    Gedruckt 
im  zweyvndziveyiitzigisten  Jar.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

This  beautifully  printed  volume  is  attributed  by  Panzer  (Annalen  der  altern  deuts- 
chen  Lit.,  vol.  ii.,  p.  61),  to  the  press  of  Hans  Schonsperger  of  Augsburg.  The  type 
and  typographical  ornaments  are  similar  to  those  used  in  the  "  Tewrdannckh." 
Panzer  describes  this  little  volume  as  consisting  of  twelve  sheets  (A — M  the  last 
leaf  blank)  but  this  copy  has  another  piece  of  eight  leaves  (the  last  blank)  in  exactly 
the  same  type,  but  without  date,  place,  signatures  or  pagination.  The  title  is  "  Ain 
Christliche  vorbetrachtung  vfi  bekantnusz  iir  got.  So  man  will  beten  das  heylige 
vatervnser.  Gezoge  ausz  den  predige  D.  Martini  Luther  zu  Witteberg.  Von 
dem  wirdigen  Nicolao  vonn  Amssdorff  Licenciaten  in  deutsch  gebracht."  The  wood- 
cuts in  the  "Betbiichlin"  are  quite  in  the  style  of  Burgkmaier  and  are  probably 
by  him. 

Formula    Missse    et    communionis    pro   Ecclesia   Vuittem- 


bergensi.     IVittembergce.    1523.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Twelve  leaves. 

Das   Tauffbiichlin    verteutschct    durch    Martinum    Luther. 


[0.  O.  u.  J.]    4to.    BR.  M. 

Eight  leaves,  the  last  blank.     Probably  printed  at  Wittenberg  about  1524. 


8;8  LUTHER. 

LUTHER,  MartiNUS.  Etiich  Cristlich  lider  Lobgesang,  vii  Psalm, 

dem  rainen  wort  Gottes  gemesz,  ausz  der  heylige  schrift't,  durch  man- 

cherley  hochgelerter  gemacht,  in  der  Kirchen  zu  singen,  wie  es  dann  zum 

tayl  berayt  zu  Wittenberg  in  ubung  ist.    Wittenberg.    AT.D.[X]XIin. 

4to.    R.  M. 

Twelve  leaves. 

This  is  clearly  the  first  issue  of  the  first  edition  of  Luther's  Hymn  book. 

Etiich    Christlich    lider    Lobgesang    ....     Wittenberg 

M.D.XXIIII.    4to.    BL.  M. 

Twelve  leaves. 

This  is  evidently  a  later  issue.     The  error  in  the  date  is  corrected,  and  two 
psalms  which  are  dated  1523  in  the  first  issue  have  in  this  the  date  of  1524. 

De  captivitate  Babylonica  Ecclesiae.     Praelvdivm  Martini 

Lutheri.    [Sine  loco  aut  an?iol\    4to.    A  woodcut  portrait  of  Luther  at 

the  back  of  the  title. 

A — K  in  fours. 

Der.  Cxxx.  Psalm,  De  profundis  clamavi.    Ausz  tieffer  not 

schrey  ich  zu  dir.  Der.  xlvi.  Psalm,  Deus  noster  refugiCi  &  Virtus. 
Ein  feste  Burg  ist  unser  Gott.  Gcdruckt  zu  Nurinberg  durch  Kune- 
gund  Kergotin.    [0.  J.l    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

This  piece  consists  of  only  four  leaves.    It  has  the  musical  notation  for  each 
psalm. 

Deudsch    Catechismus.     [Colophon.]     Gedriickt  zu  Erffurd 

durch  Conrad  Treffer.  .  .  .  .  1529.     Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts. 

Folios  1-79,  including  title. 

Deudsch  Catechismus.   Gemehret  miteiner  newen  vnterricht 


vnd  vermanung  zu  der  Beicht [Colophon.]    Gedriickt  zu  \VU- 

teinberg  durch  Georgen  Rhaw.    1529.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts.    BL.  M. 

Title,  I  leaf;  folios  1-118,  and  i  leaf  of  imprint.  The  woodcuts  are  from  the 
designs  of  Lucas  Cranach. 

The  edition  of  Erfurt  would  appear  to  be  earlier  than  this,  as  it  does  not  con- 
tain the  "  Vermanung  zu  der  Beicht,"  which  is  specially  mentioned  as  added  to 
this  edition. 

Die  Sieben  buss-psalm  mit  deutscher  auszlegung  nach  dem 


schrifi'tlichen  synne  tzu  Christi  vnd  gottes  gnaden,  neben  seyns  selben. 
wareerkentniszgrundlichgerichtet.  [Colophon.]  Gcdruckt  tzu  Leyptzk 
durch  den  vorsichtigen  man  Jacobtint  Thanner  Nach  Christ  geburt 
Tausent  funffliundcrt  vnd ym  achtzcJtcnden  yare.    4to. 

Forty-three  leaves. 


LUTHER.  879 

LUTHER,  Martinus.  Die  bekentnus  Doctoris  Martini  Luthers 
auff  den  yetzigen  Angesteltenn  Reychsztag  zu  Augspurg  einzulegen, 
in  Siebenzehen  Artickel  verfaszset.     \0.  0.]    MDXXX.    4to.    G.  M. 

Four  leaves. 

Ratschlag  von  der  Kirchen,  eins  ausschus  etlicher  Cardinal, 


Bapst  Paulo  des  namens  dem  dritten,  auff  seinen  befelh  geschrieben 
vnd  vberantwortet.  Mit  einer  vorrede  D.  Mart.  Luth.  [Colophon.] 
Gedruckt  zu  Witteinberg  durch  Hans  Lufft.  M.D.xxxviii.    4to.    bl.  m. 

A — E  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

This  is  a  translation  with  a  preface  by  Luther,  of  the  treatise  "  Consilium  de 
eaieiidanda  Ecclesiae,"  presented  to  Paul  III.  by  Cardinals  Contarini,  Sadolet, 
Pole  and  others.  On  the  title  is  a  satirical  woodcut  of  three  cardinals  sweeping 
and  dusting  a  church. 

Enchiridion  piarum  precationum,  cum  passionali  ut  vocant. 


Vuittembergce.     1543.    Sm,  8vo.     Woodcuts. 

Enchiridion   Piarum  Precationum  cum   Calendario  &  Pas- 


sionali, ut  uocant  &c.     Mart.  Luth.     IVitebergae     1 560.    [Colophon.] 
Witebergae  excudebat  Laiirentius  Schinienck.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

)(,  12  leaves,  including  title,  and  A — V  in  twelves. 

The  "  Passionale  "  is  illustrated  with  fifty  woodcuts.     Many  of  the  designs  are 
taken  from  DUrer's  set  of  woodcuts  commonly  known  as  "  The  Little  Passion." 

Duodecim  consilia  Evangelica  Papistarum.    Item  de  discri- 


mine  consilii  et  prsecepti.   Magdebiirgi,per Michaelem  Lottlierum.   1550. 
Sm.  8vo.    Y.  M. 

Das  Symbolum  der  Heyligen  Apostel,  darinnen  der  Grundt 


unsers  Christlichen  Glaubens  gelegt  ist Gedruckt  zu  Niirnberg 

durch  Valentin  Geysskr.    {0.  J?[     Sm.  Svo.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

Fourteen  leaves,  with  twelve  woodcuts  of  the  Apostles  by  Virgil  Solis. 

Der  Grosse  Catechismus,  Deutsch.    Durch  D.  Martin  Luther. 


Gedruckt  zu  Regenspurg,  bey  Ckristoff  Fiscliern 1655.    Sm.  Svo. 

Woodcuts.    Printed  on  vellum. 

A — S  in  eights. 

Ein  Kurtz  gedicht  so  niiwlich  ein  Thurgowischer  Pur,  Docter 


Martin  Lutrer  vnnd  siner  leer,  zu  lob  vnd  synen  Widerwerttigenn,  zu 
Spott  gemacht  hat.    [0.  0.  u.  J.']    4to. 

Four  leaves.  Beneath  the  above  title  is  a  large  woodcut.  Then  follow  five 
pages  of  verse  printed  in  two  columns.  A  large  woodcut  occupies  the  recto  of  the 
last  leaf,  the  verso  blank. 


88o  L  UTTRELL—L  YDGA  TE. 

LUTTRELL,  Narcissus.  A  Brief  Historical  Relation  of  State 
Affairs  from  Septemberi678  to  April  1714.  Oxford.   1857.  6  vols.  8vo. 

One  of  the  few  copies  printed  on  thick  paper. 

LYDGATE,  John.  The  hystorye/  Sege  and  dystruccyon  of  Troye. 
[Colophon.]  Here  cndcth  the  Troye  booke  otherwyse  called  the  Sege  of 
Troye/  translated  by  John  Lydgate  monke  of  the  Monastery  of  Beryj 
And  Einpryiitcd  the  yere  of  oure  Lorde  a.  M.  CCCCC.  &.  xiij.  by 
Riehard  Pyiisoiil  prynter  vnto  the  kyngs  noble  grace.  Folio.  Black 
letter.    Woodcuts,    br.  m. 

Title  and  table,  2  leaves  ;  A— Z  in  sixes  ;  A— D  4  in  sixes. 

The  title-page  is,  with  the  exception  of  the  single  line  of  letterpress  given  above, 
occupied  by  a  large  woodcut  of  the  royal  arms  ;  on  the  reverse  is  a  woodcut  in  two 
compartments.     The  first  and  last  leaves  and  a  corner  of  A  5  are  in  facsimile. 

The  Avncient  Historic  and  onely  trewe  and  syncere  Cronicle 

of  the  warres  betwixte  the  Grecians  and  the  Troyans,  and  subsequently 
of  the  fyrst  euercyon  of  the  auncient  and  famouse  Cytye  of  Troye 
vnder  Lamedon  the  king,  and  of  the  laste  and  fynall  destruction  of 
the  same  vnder  Pryam,  vvrytten  by  Daretus  a  Troyan  and  Dictus  a 
Grecian  both  souldiours  and  present  in  all  the  sayde  warres  and  di- 
gested in  Latyn  by  the  lerned  Guydo  do  Columnpnis  and  sythes  trans- 
lated into  englyshe  verse  by  John  Lydgate  Moncke  of  Burye.  And 
newly  imprinted.  An.  M.  D.  L.  V.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  London, 
in  Flctestrete  at  the  signe  of  the  Princes  amies,  by  Thomas  Marshe. 
Anno.  do.  M.  D.  L.  V.    Folio.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — Cc  in  sixes  ;  Dd — Ee  in  fours.  The  title  within  a  woodcut 
border. 

Edited  by  Robert  Braham,  who,  in  his  preface,  points  out  the  great  inaccuracy 
of  the  edition  printed  by  Pynson  in  15 13.  He  also  speaks  very  disrespectfully  of 
"  the  doynges  of  Wyllyam  Caxton  in  his  leawde  recucil  of  Troye,"  and  of  the  popular 
tales  of  "  Robyn  Hode  "  and  "  Beuys  of  Hampton."  This  preliminary  matter  is 
given  at  full  in  "  Prefaces,  Dedications,"  &c.,  1874. 

The  Life  and  Death  of  Hector.     One,  and  the  First  of  the 

most  Puissant,  Valiant,  and  Renowned  Monarches  of  the  world,  called 
the  Nyne  worthies.  Shewing  his  inuincible  force,  together  with  the 
marvailous,  and  most  famous  Acts  by  him  atchieved  and  done  in  the 
great,  long,  and  terrible  Siege,  which  the  Princes  of  Greece  held  about 
the  towne  of  Troy,  for  the  space  of  Tenne  yeares.  And  finally  his 
vnfortunate  death  after  hee  had  fought  a  Hundred  mayne  Battailes  in 
open  field  against  the  Grecians :  The  which  heerein  are  all  at  large 
described.  Wherein  there  were  slaine  on  both  sides  Fourteene  Hun- 
dred,' and  Sixe  Thowsand,  Fourscore,  and  sixe  men.  Written  by  lohn 
Lidgate,  Monke  of  Berry,  and   by  him  dedicated  to  the  high  and 


L  YD  GA  TE—L  YLY.  88 1 

mighty  Prince,  Henrie  the  fift,  King  of  England.  At  London,  Printed 
by  Thomas  Purfoot.    Anno.  Dom.  1614.    Folio.    BR.  M. 

C,  6  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  A— Cc  in  sixes  ;  Dd,  4  leaves;  Dd4  blank.  The 
title  is  within  a  woodcut  border  composed  of  subjects  illustrating  the  Siege  of  Troy. 

This  is  a  modernized  version,  in  the  six-line  stanza  by  Thomas  Heywood,  of 
Lydgate's  original  work.  The  dedication  of  the  earher  writer  to  Henry  V.  is 
retained,  and  Hej'^vood's  name  does  not  occur. 

LYDGATE,  John.  The  Churle  and  the  Byrde.  [Colophon.]  Im- 
prentcd  at  London  in  Lothbiiri  oner  against  Sainct  Maj-garytes  church 
by  me  Wyllam  Copland.    [/i^OT/?  1555.]    4to.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

Eight  leaves.     In  verse. 

From  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Heber,  Mr.  Bright,  and  Mr.  Corser.  Probably  this 
was  Farmer's  copy. 

LYE,  Edw.    Dictionarium  Saxonico  et  Gothico-Latinum 

Edidit,  Nonnullis  Vocabulis  auxit,  plurimis  Exemplis  illustravit,  et 
Grammaticam  utriusque  Linguas  praemisit,  Owen  Manning.  Londini. 
1772.    2  vols.    Folio.    R. 

LYING  WONDER.  A  Lying  Wonder  Discovered,  and  the 
Strange  and  Terrible  Newes  from  Cambridge  proved  false.  Which 
false  News  is  published  in  a  Libel,  concerning  a  wicked  slander  cast 
upon  a  Quaker,  but  the  Authour  of  the  said  Libel  was  ashamed  to 
subscribe  his  name  to  it.  Also  this  contains  an  answer  to  John 
Bunion's  Paper  touching  the  said  imagined  witchcraft,  which  he  hath 
given  forth  to  your  wonderment  (as  he  saith)  but  it  is  also  proved  a 
Lye  and  a  slander  by  many  credible  witnesses  hereafter  mentioned. 
London,  Printed  for  Thomas  Simmons  at  tlie  Bnll  and  Mout/ie  near 
Aldersgate,  1659.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     Unknown  to  Offor. 

LYLY,  John.  A  moste  excellent  Comedie  of  Alexander,  Cam- 
paspe,  and  Diogenes.  Played  before  the  Queenes  Maiestie  on  twelfe 
day  at  night  by  her  Maiesties  children  and  the  children  of  Poules. 
Imprinted  at  London  for  Thomas  Cadman.     1584.    4to.    R.  M. 

A,  4  leaves,  with  title  on  A  2 ;  A  (repeated) — F  in  fours. 

Two  titles  were  printed  to  this  edition.  In  the  copy  in  the  British  Museum  the 
title  is  "  Campaspe,  Played  before  the  Queenes  Maiestie  on  newyeares  day  at  night, 
by  her  Maiesties  Childre,  and  the  Children  of  Paules."  There  was  a  second  im- 
pression in  1 591.  After  the  title-page  follow  the  prologues  spoken  at  the  Court  and 
the  Black-Friars. 

Evphves.  The  Anatomy  of  Wit.  Verie  pleasant  for  all  Gen- 
tlemen to  reade,  and  most  necessarie  to  resemble.  Wherein  are  con- 
tained the  delightes  that  Wit  followeth  in  his  youth,  by  the  pleasant- 

5  K 


882  L  YL  V. 

nesse  of  loue,  and  the  happinesse  he  reapeth  in  age,  by  the  perfect- 
nesse  of  Wisdome.  By  lohn  Lyiy,  Maister  of  Art.  Corrected  and 
augmented.  A  t  London  Printed  for  Gabriel  Cawood,  dwelling  in  Paules 
Church-yard.  [Colophon.]  At  London  printed  by  Thomas  East  for 
Gabriel  Cazvood.  .  .  .  1585.    4to.    B lad- letter.    G.  M. 

A — Z  in  fours.     Dedicated  to  Sir  William  West  Knight,  Lord  de  la  Warre. 

LYLY,  John.  Evphves.  The  Anatomy  of  Wit.  Verie  pleasant 
for  all  Gentlemen  to  reade,  and  most  necessary  to  remember.  ...  By 
lohn  Lylie,  Maister  of  Art.  Corrected  and  augmented.  At  London 
Printed  for  Gabriel  Caivood,  dwelling  in  Panics  Churchyard.  [Colo- 
phon.] At  London  Printed  by  Thomas  East  for  Gabriel  Caivood  .  .  .  . 
1587.    4to.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A — Z  in  fours. 

Evphves.  The  Anatomy  of  Wit.  Very  pleasant  for  all  Gen- 
tlemen to  reade,  and  most  necessary  to  remember At 

L.ondon,  Printed  by  I.  Roberts  for  Gabriel  I  Caivood,  divelling  in  Paules 
Churchyard.    [1598.]    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — U  in  fours. 

There  are  fifteen  known  editions  of  this  highly  popular  book  printed  between 
1579  and  1636. 

Euphues  and  his  England.     Containing  his  voiage  and  ad- 

uentures,  mixed  with  sundrie  pretie  discourses  of  honest  Loue,  the 
description  of  the  Countrie,  the  Court,  &  the  manners  of  the  Isle. 
DelightfvU  to  be  read,  and  nothing  hurtfull  to  be  regarded  :  wherein 
there  is  small  offence  by  lightnesse  giuen  to  the  wise,  and  lesse  occa- 
sion of  loosenesse  proffered  to  the  wanton.  By  lohn  Lyly,  Maister  of 
Arte.  Commend  it,  or  amend  it.  Printed  at  London  for  Gabriel  Ca- 
ivood .  .  .   1586.    4to.    Black  letter.     G.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  f ,  4  leaves  ;  B — LI  in  fours.  Dedicated  to  Edward  de  Vere,  Earl 
of  Oxford. 

Euphues  and  his  England.    Containing  his  voiage  and  ad- 


uentures,  mi.xed  with  sundrie  pretie  discourses  of  honest  Love. 
Printed  at  London  for  Gabriel  Cawood,  dwelling  in  Panics  Churchyard. 
1588.     [Colophon.]    Imprinted  at  London  by  Thomas  East  for  Gabriel 
Cawood,  dwelling  in  Paules  Cliurcliyard.    4to.     Black  letter. 
A— LI  in  fours,  and  between  A  and  B,  f ,  4  leaves. 

Evphves  and  His  England.    Containing  his  voyage  and  ad- 


uentures  :  Mixed  with  sundry  prettie  discourses  of  honest  loue. 

At  London,   Printed  by  /.  A',  for  Gabriell  Cawood  .  .  .   1597.    4to. 

Black  letter. 

A — Ff  2  in  fours. 


L  YL  V—L  YNDE  WODE.  883 

LYLY,  John.    Loves  Metamorphosis.     A  Wittie   and    Courtly 

Pastorall,  written  by  Mr.  lohn  Lyllie.     First  playd  by  the  Children 

of  Paules,  and  now  by  the  Children  of  the  Chappell.    London  Printed 

for  William  Wood,  divelliiig  at  tlic  West  end  of  Paiiles,  at  the  signe  of 

Time.    1601.    4to. 

A— G  2  in  fours,  but  A  has  only  the  title,  and  G  2  the  stationer's  device. 

Sixe  Covrt  Comedies.     Often  Presented  and  Acted  before 

Oueene  Elizabeth,  by  the  Children  of  her  Maiesties  Chappell,  and  the 
Children  of  Paules.  Written  By  the  onely  Rare  Poet  of  that  Time, 
The  Wittie,  Comicall,  Facetiously-Quicke  and  vnparalleld :  lohn  Lilly, 
Master  of  Arts.  Decies  repetita  placebunt.  London  Printed  by  William 
Stansby  for  Edward  Blount.    1632.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

A,  6  leaves,  title  on  A  2  ;  B — Dd  in  twelves. 

Dedicated  by  the  publisher  to  Viscount  Lumley.  This  collected  edition  supplies 
the  songs,  which  the  quartos  omit. 

LYNCH,  Jo.  Cambrensis  Eversus,  sev  potivs  Historica  fides,  in 
rebus  Hibernicis,  Giraldo  Cambrensi  abrogata.  In  quo,  plerasque 
iusti  Historici  dotes  desiderari,  plerosque  n^vos  inesse  ostendit  Gratia- 
nvs  Lucivs  Hibernus  ;  Qui  etiam  aliquot  res  memorabiles  Hibernicas 

veteris  &  nouae  memoriae  passim  h  re  nata  huic  operi  inseruit 

Impress.  An.  M.DC.LXII.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  16  leaves,  last  blank  ;  A — Zz  in  fours,  except  G  and  H, 
which  have  only  2  leaves  each  ;  index,  7  leaves. 

On  the  title  is  written  "  Ex  dono  Authoris  R.  Dni  Joannis  Lyncsi  Archidiaconi 
Tuamensis  et  Ciuis  Galuiensis." 

LYNDEWODE,  Wilhelmus.  Constitutiones  prouinciales  ec- 
clesie  anglicae.  per.  d.  Wilhelmu  Lyndewode  vtriusq;  iuris  doctore 
edite.  Incipiunt  feliciter.  [On  v.  viii.  recto.]  C  Explicit  opus  Magistri 
wilhehni  Lyndwode  super  constitutioes  puinciales.  C  Laus  deo.  [On 
the  verso,  Caxton's  mark.]  [Then  follows  the  table  on  the  last  leaf  of 
which  is  the  colophon.]  Opus  presens  Fabricatitm  est.  Et  diligentcr 
correctiim  Per  Wynandiim  de  Worde.  Apud  westmonasteriu.  In  domo 
caxston.  Anno  Incarnacionis  Millesimo  quadringetesimo  tionagesitno  sexto. 
Vltima  die  May  acabatttf.    Gloria  deo.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — X  in  eights. 

Prouinciale,  seu   Costitutiones  Anglic :    Cii  summarijs,  atq. 


iustis  annotationibus  :  pohtissimis  characteribus  :  summaq,  accuratioe 

rursum  reuise,  atq,  impresse Venales  habentur  London,  apud 

bibliopolas  In  Cimiterio  sancti  Pauli :  In  signo  sanctissime  Trinitatis 
et  sancte  Anne  matris  marie.  [Colophon.]  Explicit  preclariim  opus 
Wilhehni  Lyndeivode simma  cnra  atf  diligentia   Wolfgangi 


884  LYNDSAY. 

Hopylii  reiiisiim,  emendattt  atf  In  inclita  Parisioru  Acadania.    hn- 

pressum Ivtpesis  vera  et  sjtmptibus  hoiiesti  mercatoris  London. 

Wilhelmi  Brctton.  Anno  saliitis  nostre  Millesimo  quingetcsimo  qidnto. 
xxiij.  Martii.    Folio. 

a— h  in  eights  ;  i— y  in  sixes  and  eights  alternately  ;  z,  8  leaves,  &,  lo  leaves, 
the  last  blank,  except  for  the  printer's  device  on  the  verso.  This  work  is  preceded 
by  a  table,  A— C  in  sixes,  on  the  first  leaf  of  which  is  a  woodcut  of  arms  headed  by 
seven  lines  of  Latin  verse. 

Following  the  colophon  given  above  is  a  new  title:  "  Constitutiones  legitime  seu 

legatine  regionis  Anglicane Patisiis  impresse.     ►I^i^^  in  sixes.     Then 

another  title:  "Legatine  seu  Constitutiones  le.^itime  ....,"  within  the  same 
woodcut  border  as  that  of  the  "  Provinciale,"  and  with  the  same  imprint.  This 
counts  A — K  5  in  eights. 

At  the  end  of  this  volume  is  added  in  MS.  "An  admonition  to  suche  as  intend 
to  marrie,"  with  a  table  of  the  prohibited  degrees  of  consanguinity  "  set  forth  by 
Mathewe  Archbishop  of  Cant.  1571." 

LYNDSAY,  Sir  David.  The  Workes  of  the  Famous,  and  worthie 
Knight,  Sir  David  Lindesay  of  the  Movnt,  alias  Lion,  King  of  Armes. 
Truelie  corrected,  and  vindicated  from  the  former  Errours,  and  now 

justly  printed  according  to  the  Author's  true  Copie Aberdetie, 

Imprintedby  Edivard  Raban,  for  David Mclvill.  1628.  Sm.  8vo.  Black 
letter.    O.  M. 

A — X  in  eights. 

From  Mr.  George  Smith's  collection.  The  only  copy  known  of  this  edition.  It 
is  in  fine  condition  with  rough  leaves  throughout. 

Heir  foUowis  the  testament  and  complaynt  of  our  souuerane 


lordis  papyngo.  King  James  th^:  Fyft.  Ouhilk  lyis  sore  vvoundit  and 
may  noch  dee,  tyll  euery  man  haue  harde  quhat  he  sayis.  Quharefore 
gentyll  redaris,  haist  zow  that  he  wer  out  of  his  pane.  Compylit  be 
the  said  Schir  Dauid  Lyndesay  of  the  Mont,  Knycht  Alias  Lyoun, 
Kyng  of  Armes.  And  Imprentit  at  the  coniniand,  and  expenses  of 
maister  Sammiicl  Jasaiy,  In  Paris,  i^lS,.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A— F  in  fours.  The  last  leaf  is  blank,  except  a  cut  of  Sir  D.  Lyndsay  on  the 
verso. 

Although  this  piece  appears  to  form  a  portion  of  the  collected  book  as  printed 
by  Jascuy  at  Paris,  Mr.  George  Chalmers,  in  his  edition  of  the  poet's  writings, 
1806,  i.,  84,  seems  to  consider  that  it  was  originally  issued  by  itself  as  a  distinct 
book,  and  the  signatures  being  quite  distinct,  it  was  probably  sold  originally  as  a 
separate  work. 

From  Mr.  George  Daniel's  library. 

The  Historic  of  ane  nobil  and  wailzeand  Squycr,  William 

Meldrum,  vmquhyle  Laird  of  Cleische  and  Bynnis.  Compylit  be 
Sir  Dauid  Lyndesay  of  the  Mont,  alias,  Lyoun,  King  of  Armes. 
CH3  CC3  The  (^)  Testament  of  the  said  Williame  Meldrvm 
Squyer.    Compylit  alswa  be  Sir  Dauid  Lyndesay,  &c.   [Quotation  from 


Z  YND  SA  Y—L  YNN.  88  5 

Cicero  and  Ovid.]    Imprentit  at  Edinburgh  be  Henrie  Chatteris.    Anno 
JM.D.  XCIIII.    Cum  Priuilegio  Regali.    4to.    Black  letter,    r.  m. 

A — C  in  eights  ;  D,  4  leaves.     In  verse. 

The  only  other  copy  known  is  that  in  the  British  Museum.  In  a  copy  of  Lynd- 
say's  works,  printed  at  Edinburgh  in  1592,  the  "  History  of  Squire  Meldrum"  is 
mentioned  in  the  table  as  forming  part  of  the  book ;  but  the  earliest  edition  known 
is  this  of  1594. 

LYNDSAY,  Sir  David.  A  Dialogue  betweene  Experience  and 
a  Courtier,  of  the  miserable  state  of  the  worlde.  Compiled  in  the 
Scottish  tung  by  Syr  Dauid  Lindsey  Knight,  ....  First  turned  and 
made  perfect  Englishe :  And  now  the  seconde  time  corrected  and 
amended  according  to  the  first  Copie  ....  Heerevnto  also  are  an- 
nexed certein  other  works  inuented  by  the  sayde  Knight,  as  may  more 
at  large  appeare  in  a  Table  following.  Imprinted  at  Londoti  in  Paules 
Chiircliyarde  by  Thomas  Piirfoote.  Anno  Domini.  1575.  4to.  Black 
letter.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves ;  A — T  4  in  eights. 

The  first  London  edition  appeared  in  1 566.  When  this  was  entered  at  Stationers 
Hall  it  was  proposed  to  print  the  original  Scottish  version  with  it,  but  this,  as  we 
see,  was  not  carried  out.  It  had  already  been  licensed  to  Richard  Serle  in  1563-4, 
but  if  an  edition  at  that  date  was  printed  it  is  no  longer  known.     The  entry  runs  : 

"  Recevyd  of  Rychard  Scerlle  for  his  lysense  for  pryntinge  of  a  boke  intituled 
en  Diologue  betwe.xte  the  experyence  and  a  Couurtiour  of  the  myserable  eastate  of 
the  worlde  iiij''." 

A  Dialogue  betweene  Experience  and  a  Courtier 

First  turned  and  made  perfect  Englishe :  And  now  the  seconde  time 

corrected  and  amended  according  to  the  first  Copies Imprinted 

at  London,  in  Newgate  Market  within  the  New  Rentes,  by  Thomas  Piir- 
foote, An.  Dom.    1581.    4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Title,  preface,  and  table,  4  leaves  ;  A — T  4  in  eights. 

This  is  an  exact  reprint  of  the  edition  of  1575,  even  to  the  words  "  And  now  the 
second  time  &c."  though  this  is  of  course  the  third  edition. 

LYNN,  WiSBEACH,  &c.  The  Present  State  of  the  Navigation  of 
the  Towns  of  Lyn,  Wisbeach,  Spalding,  and  Boston.  The  Rivers  that 
pass  through  those  Places,  and  the  Counties  that  border  thereupon, 
truly,  faithfully,  and  impartially  Represented,  and  humbly  Proposed 
to  the  Consideration  of  the  Inhabitants  of  those  Places  and  Counties, 
and  to  the  Corporation  of  Adventurers  for  draining  the  vast  Level  of 
the  Fens  ....  With  a  Way  laid  down  how  to  remedy  all  the  Incon- 
veniencies  and  Defects  which  they  now  labour  under.  .  .  .  Bury  St. 
Edmunds,  Suffolk.  Printed  for  the  Author  by  T.  Baily  and  IF.  Thomp- 
son, next  door  to  the  Griffin,  near  the  Market  Cross.    [About  1720.]  8vo. 

T/ie  edges  uncut. 

Six  leaves. 


886  L  YN  TON—L  YS  ONS. 

LYNTON,  Anthony.  Ncwes  of  the  Complement  of  the  Art  of 
Navigation.    And  of  the  Mightie  Empire  of  Cataia.    Together  with 

the  Straits  of  Anian.    By  A.  L At  London,  Imprinted  by  Felix 

Kyngston.     1 609.    4to. 

A— F  in  fours,  F  4  blank.  The  author  describes  himself  as  parson  of  Worth,  in 
Sussex. 

LYSONS,  Daniel.  The  Environs  of  London.  Second  Edition. 
London.  1810.  An  Historical  Account  of  those  Parishes  in  the  County 
of  Middlesex  which  are  not  included  in  the  Environs  of  London. 
London  i8oo.    S  vols,  bound  in  12.    4to.    Large  paper.    R. 

This  copy  is  enlarged  into  twelve  volumes  by  the  addition  of  a  very  large  number 
of  extra  plates  and  drawings,  including  many  portraits  and  views  of  great  rarity. 
The  prints  are  too  numerous  to  be  described  separately,  but  the  drawings,  of  which 
there  are  more  than  a  hundred,  represent  the  following  subjects  : — i.  Air-mill  on 
the  site  of  Bolingbroke  House,  Battersea.  2.  The  Windmill  at  Nine-Elms.  3.  Two 
views  at  Battersea.  4.  Dulwich  College.  5.  St.  Saviour's,  Southwark.  6.  Two 
views  in  Carshalton,  Surrey.  7.  South-east  view  of  Cheam  Church,  Surrey,  1797. 
8.  Manor  House,  Clapham.  9.  Portrait  of  Dr.  Gauden,  Bishop  of  Exeter.  10.  The 
Old  Church,  Clapham.  11.  Monuments  of  the  Atkins  family  at  Clapham.  12. 
Monument  of  William  Hewer,  commissioner  of  the  Navy,  the  relative  and  heir  of 
Pepys.  13.  Four  other  monuments  (Sir  William  Brookes,  &c.)  14.  Views  in 
Croydon.  15.  Croydon  Church.  16.  Monument  of  Sir  Nicholas  Heron  at  Croy- 
don. 17.  View  in  Croydon.  18.  View  at  Kew.  19.  View  in  Kingston.  20.  Arch- 
bishop Tenison's  School  at  Lambeth.  21.  Morden  Church,  Surrey,  1797.  22.  Two 
drawings  of  monuments  in  Mortlake  Churchyard,  one  of  Edward  Athawes,  a  Vir- 
ginia merchant,  the  other  of  John  Partridge  the  astrologer.  23.  Two  sketches  in 
colours  of  Newington  Butts.  24.  Mr.  Pettiward's  house  at  Putney,  where  a  council 
of  Cromwell's  party  is  said  to  have  been  held  in  1647.  25.  Richmond  Hill.  26. 
Three  Views  of  Chenies  Church.  27.  Monument  of  Mr.  Baron  Parker  in  Wands- 
worth Church.  28.  Cottages  at  Wandsworth.  29.  The  monument  of  Edward 
Cecil,  afterwards  Viscount  Wimbledon,  in  a  chapel  at  Wimbledon  Church.  30.  A 
view  at  Wimbledon.  31.  Bromley,  Kent.  32.  South-east  view  of  Bromley  Church, 
1799.  33.  Monument  of  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Dr.  Johnson.  34.  House  at  Charlton, 
built  by  Sir  Richard  Raynes.  35.  A  view  of  Charlton  Church,  1799.  36.  Lee 
Church,  Kent.  37.  South-west  view  of  East  Wickham  Church,  Kent,  1799.  3^- 
Portrait  of  Sir  William  Prichard,  Knight.  39.  Monument  of  Mary,  wife  of  Captain 
John  Bonnell,  and  three  other  monuments  in  Walthamstow  Church.  40.  Robert 
Dudley,  Earl  of  Leicester,  Stadt-holder  of  Holland,  1585.  41.  North-west  view  of 
Chipping  Barnet  Church,  Herts,  iSoo.  42.  South-east  view  of  Barnet  Friern  Church. 
43.  View  in  Friern  Barnet.  44.  Two  views  in  Bethnal  Green.  45.  Bethnal-Green 
Church,  1798.  46.  View  in  Brentford.  47.  Lord  Cremorne's  House,  Chelsea. 
48.  Dr.  Dominicceti's  House  at  Cheyne  Walk  Chelsea.  49.  A  view  in  Chelsea. 
50.  Other  views  in  Chelsea  (Church-lane,  &c.).  51.  The  Green  Park  Gate,  Hyde 
Park  Corner,  1802.  52.  Monuments  in  Chiswick  Church.  53.  Entrance  to  the 
village  of  Edgeware,  Middlesex.  54.  Monument  of  George  Huxley  of  Wyer  Hall, 
Edmonton.  55.  Views  in  Edmonton.  Four  drawings.  56.  Portrait  of  Sir  William 
Curtis,  Bart.  57.  Edmonton  Church.  58.  High-street,  Fulham.  59.  The  stair- 
case and  kitchen  of  the  Golden  Lion  Inn  at  Fulham,  said  to  have  been  the  residence 
of  Bishop  Bonner.  Two  drawings.  60.  View  in  Fulham.  61.  Monuments  in 
Fulham  Church  (Sir  William  Buttes,  &c.).     Six  drawings.     62.  Monument  of  Sir 


LYSONS—M.,G.  887 

Edward  Nevill  in  Hammersmith  Chapel.  63.  Eight  views,  &c.,  in  Hackney,  in- 
cluding a  portrait  of  Sir  Henry  Rowe.  64.  Church  Houses,  Hackney.  65.  Views 
in  Hampstead.  66.  South-east  view  of  Pinner  Chapel.  67.  North-west  view  of 
Heston  Church,  Middlesex,  1798.  68.  Si.\  monuments  in  Heston  Church.  69. 
Monuments  of  Sir  Roger  Chomley  and  others  at  Hornsey.  70.  View  in  Hornsey. 
71.  Interior  of  the  ChapeL  72.  Two  Views  at  Isleworth.  73.  A  series  of  drawings 
of  old  houses  at  or  near  Isleworth.  74.  Ancient  mansion  at  Canonbury.  75.  The 
Queen's  Head  Tavern,  Islington.  76.  View  in  Islington.  77.  Two  other  views 
near  the  New  River  and  Spa  Fields,  Islington.  78.  Monument  of  Edward  Rich, 
Earl  of  Warwick  and  Holland  at  Kensington.  79.  Original  views  of  old  Maryle- 
bone.  80.  Monument  of  Giuseppe  Baretti  in  Marylebone  Church.  81.  View  of 
Stoke-Newington.  82.  North-east  view  of  Stoke-Newington  Church.  83.  Monu- 
ment of  John  Dudley,  Esq.,  in  Stoke-Newington  Church.  84.  Other  monuments 
in  Stoke-Newington  Church.  Three  drawings.  85.  Tomb  of  Robert  Cheseman  at 
Noi-wood.  86.  Paddington  Church.  87.  Views  in  St.  Pancras.  88.  Monuments 
in  St.  Pancras  Church.  Three  drawings.  89.  Views  near  St.  Pancras.  90.  Sketches 
in  Shadwell  Church  (monuments.  Sec).  91.  Blackwall  Reach.  92.  Monument  of 
Margaret  Woffington  at  Teddington.  93.  Monument  of  Henry  Flitcroft,  the 
architect,  at  Teddington.  94.  Paul  Whitehead.  95.  Twickenham,  Middlesex. 
96.  Monuments  of  Robert  and  Walter  Moyle  and  of  Fabian  Phillips,  at  Twyford. 
Three  drawings.  97.  Don  Saltero's  Coffee-house,  Chelsea.  98.  Monuments  at 
HiUingdon.  99.  Monuments  of  Sir  John  Austen  at  South  Mimms.  100.  A  series  of 
coloured  views  at  Richmond.    loi.  A  series  of  monuments  at  Twickenham. 

LYSONS,  Daniel.    The  Environs  of  London London, 

1 792-181 1.    5  vols.    4to.    R.  M. 

This  copy  also  has  additional  illustrations  inserted. 


M. 

M.,  G.  Miscellanea :  or,  a  Choice  Collection  of  Wise  and  In- 
genious Sayings,  &c.  of  Princes,  Philosophers,  Statesmen,  Courtiers, 
and  Others  ;  Out  of  several  Antient  and  Modern  Authors  :  For  the 
pleasurable  Entertainment  of  the  Nobility  and  Gentry  of  both  Sexes. 
Dispersa  Colligo.  London,  Printed  for  William  Lindsey  at  tlie  Angel 
near  Lincolns-Inn  in  Chancery-Lane,  1694,    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — M  2  in  eights. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  Honourable  Irby,  Esq.  (eldest  son  of  Anthony,  and  Grandson 
to  the  Most  Worthy  Knight  Sir  Anthony  Irby,  both  Deceased)." 

Delight    and    Pastime :    Or,    Pleasant   Diversion    for  both 

Sexes.  Consisting  of  Good  History  and  Morality,  witty  Jests,  Smart 
Repartees,  and  Pleasant  Fancies  .  .  .  London :  Printed  for  J.  Sprint 
at  the  Bell,  and  G.  Conyers  at  the  Gold-Ring  .  .  .  1697.    Sm.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — M  2  in  eights. 

This  is  the  same  work  as  the  preceding,  with  only  a  new  title.  From  Mr.  George 
Smith's  collection. 


888  71/.,  G.—M.,  S. 

M.,  G.  The  Praise  of  York-shire  Ale  Wherein  is  enumerated 
several  Sorts  of  Drink,  with  a  Discription  of  the  Humors  of  most  sorts 
Of  Drunkards.  To  Which  is  added,  a  York-shire  Dialogue,  in  its  pure 
natural  Dialect,  as  is  now  commonly  spoken  in  the  North  parts  of 
York-shire.  The  Third  Edition.  With  the  Addition  of  some  Observa- 
tions, of  the  Dialect  and  Pronuntiation  of  Words  in  the  East  Ryding 
of  York-shire.  Together  with  a  Collection  of  significant  and  useful! 
Proverbs.  By  G.  M.  Gent.  York,  Printed  by  J.  White,  for  Francis 
Hildyard  at  the  Signe  of  the  Bible  in  Stone  Gate,  1697.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — H  in  eights. 

"  The  Praise  of  Yorkshire  Ale  "  and  the   "  Yorkshire  Dialogue  "  are  both  in 
verse.     The  initials  G.  M.  are  sometimes  explained  as  those  of  George  Meriton. 

M.,  G.  The  Citizens  Complaint  for  want  of  Trade,  or  the  Trades- 
man's Outcry  for  lack  of  Money.    By  G.  M. 

Being  the  poor  distressed  Tradesman's  cry, 
Down  with  all  Sects  ;  but  up  with  Loyalty : 
Making  it  to  appear  in  these  his  Rhimes, 
That  'tis  bad  men  alone  that  make  bad  Times. 

London,  Printed  in  the  Year,  166^.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    In  verse. 

M.,  R.  A  Newe  Ballade.  Quod  R.  M.  [  Without  printer  s  name, 
place,  and  date.]    A  Broadside.    Black  letter. 

Ten  stanzas  of  four  lines  each. 

Reprinted  in  "Ancient  Ballads,"  in  1867.     The  only  copy  known. 

It  was  probably  printed  at  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth. 

M.,  R.    The  best  Schoole  of  War :  Or,  The  order  for  exercising 
a  foot  company.    Printed  at  London,  for  R.  H.    1642.    4to. 
Eight  leaves.    With  woodcut  of  a  musketeer  on  the  title. 

M.,  R.    A  Relation  of  Mr.  R.  M's  Voyage  to  Buenos- Ayres  :  And 
from  thence  by  Land  to  Potosi.     Dedicated  to  the  Honourable  the 
Court  of  Directors  of  the  South-Sea  Company.    London,  Printed  by 
John  Darby  in  Bartholomew-Close.    17 16.    8vo.     The  edges  uncut. 
A — H  4  in  eights,  besides  the  dedication,  2  leaves,  and  a  map. 

M.,  S.  The  Heavenly  Passenger:  Or,  the  Pilgrims  Progresse  from 
this  World  to  that  which  is  to  come.  Deliver'd  under  the  Similitude 
of  a  Dream.  Wherein  is  Discovered,  the  manner  of  his  setting  out,  his 
Dangerous  Journey,  and  safe  Arrival  at  the  desired  Country.    Newly 

done  into  Verse,  by  S.  M Printed  for  7.  Deacon,  at  the  Sign 

of  the  Angel  in  Guilt-Spur  Street,  without  Netvgate.     1687.    4to. 

A— C  in  fours,  followed  by  a  leaf  of  imprimatur.     Woodcut  on  the  title. 

A  metrical  compendium  of  liunyan's  work.     From  Mr.  Daniel's  collection. 


M.,  T.—MACHAUD.  889 

M.,  T.     An  Exact  Discoverie  of  Romish  Doctrine  in  the  case  of 

Conspiracie  and  RebeUion,  by  pregnant  observations  :  Collected  (not 

without  direction  from  our  Superiours)  out  of  the  expresse  dogmaticall 

principles  of  Popish  Priests  and  Doctors.    [Quotation  from  Isaiah,  29, 

9.]    At  London  Imprinted  by  Felix  Kyngston,  for  C.  B.  and  E.  IV. 

and  are  to  be  sould  in  Panics  Clinrcli-yard  at  the  signe  of  the  Szvan. 

1605.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — H  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

M.,  T.  The  Life  of  a  Satyrical  Pvppy,  Called  Nim.  Who  worrieth 
all  those  satyrists  he  knowes,  and  barkes  at  the  rest.  By  T.M.  London, 
Printed  by  for  \sic'\  Huinplircy  Moseley,  at  the  Princes  Amies  in  St. 
Paul's  Church-yard.    1657.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — I  4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank,  besides  two  leaves  before 
the  title  containing  full-length  prints  of  Nim  and  his  man  Bunge. 

This  is  an  original  book,  and  some  of  the  particulars  which  it  furnishes  regarding 
London  life  and  manners  are  very  curious. 

MAC-CAGHWELL,  Hugh.  Apologia  Apologise  pro  loanne 
Dvns  Scoto  doctore  subtili  Theologorum  principe.  In  qua  iacta  in 
eum,  eiusque  vindicem  conuitia  repelluntur :  eius  vita,  mors,  &  doc- 
trina,  ab  iniurijs,  &  calumnijs  vendicantur  pluresque  opiniones  eius  ex 

inuidia  iniuste  taxatae,  solide  propugnantur per  F.  Hvgonem 

Magnesivm  Hibernum  ....  Parisiis,  Apitd  Michaelcni  Sonnivm 

1623.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  pp.  1-288  ;  index,  6  leaves. 

In  Harris's  Ware,  vol.  ii.,  p.  103,  is  an  account  of  Hugh  Mac  Caghwell,  Titular 
Archbishop  of  Armagh,  and  a  hst  of  his  works.  It  is  erroneously  stated  in  the 
Grenville  catalogue,  ii.,  p.  428,  that  this  book  is  not  mentioned  among  them. 

MACCIUS,  Paulus.     Pavli  Maccii  Emblemata  Cum  priuilegiis. 

[Colophon.]     BononicB  Anno   ab  orbe  Redempto   1628.  mcnse  Aprili 

Clemens  Ferronius  Superiorum  permissu  excudcbat.    4to.    8 1  Plates  of 

Emblems. 

A — TT  in  fours. 

[M'^  CULLOCH,  J.  R.]  A  Catalogue  of  Books,  the  Property  of 
a  Political  Economist ;  with  Critical  and  Biographical  Notices. 
London.    1862.    Svo. 

Pp.  394-<-viii.     Presentation  copy  from  the  author. 

MACER,  Jehan.  Les  trois  livres  de  I'histoire  des  Indes,  acomplie 
de  plusieurs  choses  memorables,  autant  fidelement  que  sommaircnient 

composez  en  Latin,  &  depuis  nagueres  faictz  en  Frangoys A 

Paris  chez  Guillaume  Guillard. 1555.    Sm.  sqr.  Svo.    R.  M. 

[MACHAUD,  J.  B.]     Eloges   et  Discovrs   svr  la   Triomphante 

5L 


890  MA  CHI  A  VEL—MA  CR  OBI  US. 

Reception  dv  Roy  en  sa  Ville  de  Paris,  apris  la  Reduction  de  la 
Rochelle:  Accompagnez  des  figvres,  tant  des  Arcs  de  Triomphe, 
que  des  autres  preparatifs.  A  Paris,  Chez  Pierre  Rocolet.  ....  1629. 
Folio.    BL.  M. 

Title  and  dedication,  3  leaves ;  "  La  Rochelle  aux  pieds  du  Roy,"  6  leaves  ; 
pp.  1-180;  "  Ludovico  XIIL",  I  leaf;  16  plates,  including  the  frontispiece. 

MACHIAVELS  GHOST.  As  he  lately  appeared  to  his  deare 
Sons,  the  Modcrne  Projectors.  Divulged  for  the  pretended  good  of 
the  Kingdomes  of  England,  Scotland,  and  Ireland.  Printed  by  autho- 
rity: In  the  year e  of  Grace  1641.  London:  Printed  by  J.  O.  for 
Francis  Constable,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  King  Street,  at  the 
sigiie  of  the  Goat,  and  in  Westminster  Hall.     1641.    4to. 

A— D  in  fours,  first  leaf  blank.  In  verse  and  prose.  The  tract  has  been 
ascribed  to  Thomas  Hey  wood. 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  Jolley  and  Mr.  Corser. 

MACHIN,  Lewis.  The  dumbe  Knight.  A  historicall  Comedy, 
acted  sundry  times  by  the  children  of  his  Maiesties  Reuels.  London, 
Printed  by  Nicholas  Okes,  for  lolin  Dache,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop 
in  Popes-head  Palace,  neere  to  the  Roy  all  Exchange.     1608.    4to. 

A — K  i  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

First  edition.  In  his  address  to  the  reader,  Machin  refers  to  a  coadjutor,  and 
as  some  copies  of  the  play  have  a  different  title-page,  with  the  name  of  "  laruis 
Markham''  as  the  writer,  it  is  to  be  presumed  that  it  was  he  who  had  a  share  in  the 
composition. 

MACROBIUS.  [On  folio  I  recto]  Somnivm  Scipionis  e.x  Ciceronis 
libro  de  Republica  excerptum.  [On  folio  iii  verso]  Macrobii  Avrelii 
Theodosii  Viri  Consvlaris  et  Illvstris  in  Somnivm  Scipionis  Exposi- 
tionisqvam  elegantissimae  liber  primus.  [Colophon.]  Macrobii  Avrelii 
Theodosii  Viri  Consvlaris  et  Illnstris  saturnaliorvni  libri  iinpressi  Ve- 
netiis  opera  et  impensa  Nicolai lenson  Gallici,  M.  CCCC.  LXXII.  Folio. 
EL.  M. 

[On  folio  I,  recto]  Somnivm  Scipionis  ex  Ciceronis  libro  de 

Republica  excerptvm  [On  sig.  a  iiii]  Macrobii  Avrelii  Theodosii  Viri 
Consularis  et  lUvstsis  [sic']  in  Somnivm  Scipionis  Fxpositionis  [«V] 
quam  elegantissime  liber  primvs.  [Colophon.]  Macrobii  Anrelii  Theo- 
dosii uiri  cdsularis  &  illnstris  satnrnalio%  libri  iinpressi  Brixa:  [sic]  per 
BoJiitiuvi  de  Boninis  de  Ragnsia  M.CCCC.LXXXIII.  die.  VI.  Innii. 

Folio.    BL.  M. 

One  hundred  and  sixty-four  leaves,  the  first  blank. 


Hocvolvminecontinentvr.  Macrobij  interpretatio  in  somnium 

Scipionis  a  Cicerone  confictum.    Eiusdem  Saturnaliorum  libri  septem. 


MA  CR  OBI  U  S—MA  ID  S.  891 

Haec  omnia  Nicolaus  Angelius  apprime  eruditus  summa  diligentia  cor- 
rexit,  imprimiq;  curauit.  [Colophon.]  Intpressum  Floretic2  opera  & 
siimptu  Philippi  luntce.  Anno  a  natiuitate.  D.XV.  Supra  mille  mense 
lulio.  Leone  Deciino  Pontifice.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves  ;  folios  1-279. 

MACROBIUS.  Opera,  Accedunt  Note  integrae  I.  Pontani,  J. 
Meursii,  J.  Gronovii.    Lugd.  Bat.     \6-jq.    8vo.    g.  m. 

MADRIGALS.  A  series  of  Madrigals  in  MS.  with  the  words  by- 
John  Milton,  Martin  Peerson,  Thomas  Tompkins,  Thomas  Lupo, 
John  Coprario,  Richard  Deering,  William  Simmes,  George  Kirby,  Wil- 
liam Byrd,  Thomas  Weelkes,  John  Ward,  and  others.  \Abo2it  1640.] 
3  vols.    Oblong  8vo. 

In  three  parts,  Cantus,  Tenor,  Bassus. 

MAGDALENA  DE  SAN  GERONIMO.    Razon  y  Forma  de  la 

Galera,  y  Casa  Real,  qve  el  Rey  nvestro  Seiior  manda  hazer  en  estos 

Reynos,  para  castigo  de  las  mugeres  vagantes,  y  ladronas,  alcahuetas, . 

hechizeras,  y  otras  semejantres.    En  Salamanca.    For  Art  us  Taber- 

7iiel.    For  mandado  de  la  Ciiidad,  y  con  licencia  del  Ordinario.    AHo 

M.  DC.  VIII.    4to. 

A — E  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

MAGNUS,  Olaus.  Historia  de  Gentibvs  Septentrionalibvs,  earvm- 
qve  diversis  Statibus,  Conditionibvs,  Moribvs,  Ritibvs,  Superstitionibus, 
disciplinis,  exercitiis,  regimine,  victu,  bellis,  structuris,  instrumentis, 
ac    mineris    metallicis,   &    rebus    mirabilibus,    necnon   vniversis   pen^ 

animalibus  in  Septentrione  degentibus  eorumq,  natura Romae 

M.D.L  V.  [Colophon.]  Ivipressvm  Romae  apvd  loannem  Mariam 
de  Viottis  Farmenseni,  in  acdibus  DiucB  Birgittce  nationis  Siiecorh  & 
Gothorum,  anno  a  Christo  nato  31.  D.  L  V.  mense  lanuarlo,  sedcnte  lulio 
III.  Font.  Max.  ....  Folio.     Woodcuts. 

Title,  preface,  and  index,  42  leaves  ;  pp.  1-815  ;  the  last  leaf  bearing  a  woodcut 
on  the  recto,  the  reverse  blank. 

MAHONY,  C.  Disputatio  Apologetica  de  iure  regni  Hiberniae 
pro  Catholicis  Hibernis  adversus  hsereticos  Anglos.  Authore  C.  M. 
Hiberno  Artium,  et  Sacrse  Theologiae  Magistro.    Accessit  ejusdem 

authoris  ad  eosdem  Catholicos  exhortatio.    Francofurti typis 

Bernardi  Govrani.     1645.    4to.    G.  M. 

Title  and  preface,  2  leaves  ;  pp.  1-130  and  one  leaf  of  errata. 

MAIDS  COMPLAINT,  THE,  against  the  Batchelors :  Or  an 
Easter-offering  for  Young  Men  and  Apprentices.    Passionately  setting 


S92  MAIDS— MAL    LARA. 

forth  the  Unkindness  of  Men,  with  their  sh't^hting  the  good  old  way 
of  Matrimony,  and  forcing  several  Thousands  of  Ripe  and  Willing 
Virgins  to  spin  out  Miserable  Lives  on  Earth  for  want  of  Husbands, 
and  lead  Apes  in  Hell  after  their  Death.  London,  Printed  for  J. 
Coniers,  at  the  Black-Raven  in  Duck-Lane,  1675.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

MAIDS  PETITION.  The  I^Iaids  Petition.  To  the  Honourable 
Members  of  both  Houses.  Or  The  Humble  Petition  of  many  Thou- 
sands of  the  well-affcctcd,  within  and  without  the  lines  of  Communica- 
tion, Virgins,  Maids,  and  other  young  Women  not  married,  &c.  And 
in  the  behalf  of  the  whole  Kingdome,  for  their  lawfull  dayes  of  Re- 
creation. With  their  Declaration,  to  hold  out  stifly  and  to  comply 
with  the  Apprentices  or  others  for  their  toUerable  Tolleration.  Pre- 
sented on  Tuesday  the  9.  of  August  the  2d  Recreation  day  for  Appren- 
tices, 1647.  London,  Printed  for  AL,  in  the  yeer  of  Englands  free- 
dome  and  Liberty,  iS^j.    4to. 

Four  leaves  ;  with  a  cut  on  the  title. 

MAINTENON.  Mdmoires  pour  servir  a  I'Histoire  de  Madame 
de  Maintenon  et  a  celle  du  Siecle  pass6.  Amsterdam.  1755.  6  vols. 
Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

MAJERUS,  Mich.  Atalanta  Fvgiens,  hoc  est,  Emblemata  nova 
de  secretis  naturae  chymica,  Accommodata  partim  oculis  &  intellectui, 
figuris  cupro  incisis,  adjectisque  sententiis,  Epigrammatis  &  notis, 
partim  auribus  &  recreationi  animi  plus  minus  50  Fugis  Musicalibus 
trium  Vocum,  quarum  duae  ad  unam  simplicem   mclodiam  distichis 

canendis  peraptam,  correspondeant Oppenhcitnii  Ex  typographia 

Ilieronytni  Galleri,  Sianptibus  J  oh.  Theodoride  Bry,  MDCXVIIL  4to. 
Plates  by  De  Bry.    R.  M. 

A — Dd  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

MAJESTAS  INTEMERATA.  or,  the  Immortality  of  the  King. 
[Three  quotations.]    Printed  in  the  Year,  16^1:).    Sm.  8vo. 

A — G  in  twelves,  title  on  A  2. 

This  little  volume  has  been  attributed  to  Cleveland.  It  has  after  the  title-page 
a  leaf  bearing  a  quotation  from  Lydgate,  like  that  which  occurs  before  the  "  Idol 
of  the  Clowns,"  1654.  Both  books  were  printed  anonymously,  but  are  included  in 
Cleveland's  works,  8vo,  1687.  It  is,  however,  doubtful  whether  either  the  "  Majestas 
Intemerata  "  or  the  "  Idol  of  the  Clowns  "  was  really  by  him.  On  the  title-page  of 
a  copy  of  the  "  Majestas  "  is,  in  fact,  written  in  a  contemporary  hand,  "  By  Francis 
White,  of  Gray's-Inn." 

MAL  LARA,  Juan  de.  La  Philosophia  Vvlgar.  de  loan  de  Mai 
Lara.   Vezino  de  Sevilla.    Ala  C.  R.  M.  del  Rey  Don  Philippe.  Nuestro 


31 A  LACH  Y—MA  LB  IE.  893 

Seiior.  Dirigida.  Primera  parte  que  contiene  mil  refranes  glosados. 
En  la  calle  de  la  Sierpe.  En  casa  de  Hernando  Diaz.  Ano.  1568. 
[Colophon.]  Acabo  se  de  iinpriinir  csta  primera  parte  de  la  Philosopliia 
Vulgar,  que  conticue  mil  Refranes,  de  los  que  se  vsan  en  Hespana.  En 
casa  de  Hernddo  Diaz,  Imjyressor  de  Libros.  En  la  miiy  noble,  y  muy 
leal  Ciudad  de  Scuilla,  en  la  calle  de  la  Sierpe.  A  vcynte  y  cinco  dias 
del  mes  dc  Abril.    1568.    Folio.     O.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  30  leaves  ;  A — Oo  vii  in  eights. 

There  appears  to  have  been  no  other  separate  edition  of  this  book,  and  it  is 
consequently  of  great  rarity.  It  was  not  reprinted  till  1619,  and  was  then  added  to 
the  "  Refranes  o  Proverbios  "  of  Heman  Nunez  as  a  second  part.  Ticknor  speaks 
of  it  as  "  a  volume  which,  notwithstanding  its  cumbersome  learning,  can  be  read 
with  pleasure,  both  for  the  style  in  which  many  parts  of  it  are  written,  and  for  the 
unusual  historical  anecdotes  with  which  it  abounds."  He  makes  a  mistake,  how- 
ever, as  to  the  date  of  both  editions,  giving  it  as  1558  and  1618  instead  of  1568 
and  1619. 

MALACHY,  SAINT.  S.  Malachiae  Archiepiscopi  Dunensis  in 
Hibernia  Ord.  Cisterciensis,  cosetanei  S.  Bernard!  Abbatis,  qui  vixit 
anno  Christi  1 140,  Prophetia  de  summis  Pontificibus,  a  vitae  suae  tem- 
pore futuris  temporibus  secuturis.  Additis  nominibus,  annis  Christi  & 
explicationibus  prophetiarum  a  R.  P.  Alphonso  Ciaconio  Ord.  Prsedi- 
catorum  editis.    \Sine  loco.]    Anno  1646.    Sm.  8vo. 

Eight  leaves,  the  last  bearing  only  a  fleuron. 

[MALBIE,  Nicholas.]  Remedies  for  the  dyseases  in  Horses. 
Approoued  and  allowed  by  diuers  very  auncient  learned  i\Iareschalls. 
fl  Imprinted  at  London,  by  Thomas  Purfoot.    1594.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — D  2  in  fours.  Also  a  large  folding  woodcut  of  a  horse  surmounted  by  the 
arms  of  the  Earl  of  Leicester,  with  fourteen  lines  of  verse  in  a  compartment  at  the 
foot  "  To  the  reader."  Dedicated  "  To  the  right  honourable  and  his  singular  good 
Lord,  the  Lord  Robert  Uudlie,"  in  eight  seven-line  stanzas,  signed  "  Aprill.  1576 
Your  L.  most  humble.  Thomas  Purfoot."  This  appears  to  be  a  book  of  greater 
rarity  than  might  be  supposed.  From  the  date  of  the  dedication  it  is  probable  that 
the  first  edition  was  printed  in  1576.  In  the  Stationers'  Registers  there  is  an  unfor- 
tunate hiatus  from  1571  to  1577,  so  that  no  information  can  be  had  from  that  trust- 
worthy source.  Herbert  mentions  an  edition  of  1572,  but  none  of  1576,  and  it  is 
most  probable  that  he  is  mistaken.  As  he  gives  no  particulars  he  probably  obtained 
the  title  at  second-hand  and  had  never  seen  the  book.  In  the  British  Museum  there 
is  only  an  imperfect  copy,  which  is  bound  up  with  the  author's  other  work, "  A  plaine 
and  easie  way  to  remedie  a  Horse  that  is  foundered  in  his  feete."  This  volume  was 
purchased  at  the  Corser  sale,  part  iv.,  465.  The  metrical  dedication  to  the  "  Remedies  " 
is  bound  up  after  the  title  to  the  "  Plaine  and  easie  way,"  and  the  text  of  the  "  Reme- 
dies" follows  after  the  four  leaves  of  the  "  Plaine  and  easie  way."  It  was  this  copy 
which  misled  Mr.  Hazlitt  in  his  description  of  the  "  Plaine  and  easie  way,"  making 
that  work  have  fourteen  leaves  instead  of  four,  and  describing  the  "  Remedies  "  as 
another  edition  of  the  "  Plaine  and  easie  way,"  whereas  they  are  entirely  different 
books.  In  the  British  Museum  are  editions  of  the  "  Plaine  and  easie  way  "  of 
1576,  1583,  and  1594,  but  except  the  imperfect  copy  (apparently  of  1583)  of  the 


894  ^A  L  ONE— MAN  A  VA . 

"Remedies"  preserved  there,  no  other  appears  to  be  on  record,  besides  that  of 
1594  described  above.     From  Mr.  Jolley's  collection. 

MALONE,  Edmond.    The  Correspondence  of  Edmond  Malone, 

the  Editor  of  Shakespeare,  with  the  Rev.  James  Davenport,  DD.  Vicar 

of  Stratford-on-Avon.     Edited  by  J.  O.  Halliwell  .  .  .  London :  .  .  . 

1 864.    4to. 

Ten  copies  privately  printed. 

Original  Letters  from  Edmond  Malone,  the  Editor  of  Shake- 


speare, to  John  Jordan  the  Poet.  Now  first  Printed  from  the  Auto- 
graph Manuscripts,  preserved  at  Stratford-upon-Avon.  Edited  by 
J.  O.  Halliwell.    London  .  .  .  1864.    4to. 

Ten  copies  privately  printed. 

A  Hand-list  of  the  Early  English  Literature  preserved  in  the 


Malone  Collection  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  selected  from  the  printed 
Catalogue  of  that  collection.  ByJ.O.  Halliwell.  London:  for  Private 
Circulation  only.    i860.    8vo. 

Fifty-one  copies  printed. 

MALTA.    La  vraye  et  Nouuelle  Description  de  Malta  auecques 

les  principales  fortresses  contrefaictes  au  vyf.   Imprimd  par  Jeronimus 

Cock  aiipres  la  nouuelle  bourse  aipc  qiiatre  vents  en  Anvers 1565. 

A  Broadside. 

At  the  top  is  a  large  copperplate  view  of  Malta. 

MAN  OF  DESTINY.  The  Man  of  Destiny's  hard  Fortune  ;  or. 
Squire  Ketch's  Declaration  concerning  His  late  Confinement  in  the 
Kings-Bench  and  Marshalsea.  Whereby  his  hopeful  Harvest  was  like 
to  have  been  blasted.  Together  With  his  happy  deliverance  and  pro- 
mising prospect  of  encreasing  Trade,  to  the  great  joy  of  himself  and 
his  magnificent  Family.  And  Several  choice  Observations  Political 
and  Moral,  relating  to  the  present  juncture  of  his  Eminences  arduous 
Affairs.  With  Allowance.  London,  Printed  for  T.  M.  1679.  4to. 
Four  leaves,  besides  a  frontispiece. 

MANASSER,  Dan.   Poesis  tacens,  Pictura  loquens,  quibus  occasio 

arrepta,  neglecta,  delineatur,  decantatur.    DilingcB typis  Cas- 

pari  Sutoris  1630.    Sm.  8vo.    Plates.     R.  M. 

MANAVA-DHERMA-S ASTRA ;   or  The  Institutes  of  Menu. 
Edited  by  Graves  Chamney  Haughton.    London.    1825.    2  vols.    4to. 

In  Sanscrit  and  English.    Presentation  copy  from  the  editor  to  his  son,  with  two 
extra  titles  in  Arabic  and  Persian. 


MA  NDER S  TON— MA  NDE  VIL  E.  895 

MANDERSTON,  Gulielmus.  Moralia  magistri  guillermi  Man- 
derston  scoti  philosophi  Sacreq,  theologie  pfessoris  in  summa  et  ardua 
philosophia  bipartita  ex  variis  autoribus  p  eude  nuperrime  collecta. 
Et  pro  secunda  impressione  cu  recentib^  additionib^  ab  code  appositis 
reuisa,  necno  ad  spiritualis  vite  indagatione  perutilia  ac  aufugiendoru 
serpentu  iter  ostedetia.  De  vtutib®  T  giiali  Biptita.  De  quatuor  virtu- 
tibus  cardinalibus  in  speciali.  [Colophon.]  Explicit  opusciilitni  in  viorali 
philosophia  bipartitiun  a  magistro  Guillcrmo  Mddci-ston  scoto  diocesis 
sancti  And  ire:  Jiiiperrinie  iniprcssnin  Anno  a  nativitate  dni  Millesivio 
qningentesimo.  XXXV.  Dievcro.  XXIII.  Nouenibrii.     Sm.  sqr.  8vo.  BR.  M. 

Folios  1-200,  including  title. 

This  little  volume  is  dedicated  to  Cardinal  Beatoun,  the  dedication  being  dated 
from  Paris,  1523,  at  which  place  both  this  and  the  first  edition  were  probably  printed. 
The  work  appears  to  be  undescribed  by  bibliographers. 

MANDEVILE,  Sir  John.  lohannis  de  monte  villa  Itinerari^ 
in  partes  Iherosolimitanas.  Et  in  vlteriores  transmarinas.  [At  the 
end.]  Explicit  itinerariusdominijohannis  de  Montevilla  militis.  \^Sine 
ulld  nold.]    4to.    BR.  M. 

a — c  in  sixes  ;  d — i  in  fours  and  sixes  alternately.  This  appears  to  be  the  third 
edition  of  the  book  in  Latin.  In  the  GrenviUe  catalogue  it  is  attributed  to  a  Mainz 
press  about  1495. 

Tractato  de  le  piu  marauegliose  cosse  e  piu  notabile  che  se 


trouano  in  le  parte  del  modo  redute  t  collecte  soto  breuita  in  el  pre- 
sente  copedio  dal  strenuissimo  caualer  spero  doro  Johanne  de  Man- 
dauilla  anglico  nato  ne  la  Cita  de  sancto  albano  el  quale  secodo  dio 
prncialmente  a  uisitato  quasi  tute  le  parte  habitabel  de  el  modo  cossi 
fideliTite  a  notato  tute  quelle  piu  degne  cosse  che  la  trouato  e  veduto 
in  esse  parte  %  chi  bene  discorre  qsto  libro  auera  pfecta  cognitione  de 
tuti  li  reami  puincie  natione  e  populi  gente  costumi  leze  hystorie  z 
degne  antiquitate  c6  breuita  de  le  quale  pte  da  altri  non  sono  tractate  t 
parte  piu  cofusamete  dalchu  gran  ualente  homini  son  state  tocate  i 
amagiore  fede  el  pfato  auctore  in  psona  e  stato  nel  1322.  in  yerusalem 
In  Asia  menore  chiamata  Turchia  I  Armenia  grande  e  in  la  picola.  In 
Sythia  zoe  in  Tartaria  in  persia  In  Syria  o  uero  suria  In  Arabia  in 
egipto  alto  z  in  lo  inferiore  in  libia  in  la  parte  grande  de  ethiopia  in 
Caldea  in  amazonia  in  India  mazore  in  la  meza  t  in  la  menore  in  divse 
sette  de  latini  greci  iudei  e  barbari  christiani  i  infideli  7  i  molte  altre 
prouincie  como  appare  nel  tractato  de  sotto.  [Colophon.]  Explicit 
Johannes  d'  Mddeuilla  inipressiis  Mcdiolani  diictii  1  auspiciis  Magistri 
Petri  de  corneno  pridie  Callcndas  ausgusti.  M.CCCCLXXX.  Johatie. 
Galeazio  Maria  Sfortia  Vicecomitte  Duce  nostra  inuictissimo  acprincipe 
Jucondissinw.    4to.    BR.  M. 

a,  10  leaves  ;  b — o  in  eights. 

The  above  tide  is  given  on  a  leaf  which  precedes  A  i,  and,  consequently,  its 


896  MANDEVILE. 

absence  would  not  create  a  suspicion  that  the  book  was  incomplete.  Such  is,  how- 
ever, the  case  with  the  copy  in  the  Grenville  library,  and  that  accounts  for  the  fact 
that  so  short  a  description  is  given  in  the  "  Biblioth.  Grenv."  The  present  copy  has 
the  last  leaf  in  facsimile.  It  is  the  first  edition  of  the  Italian  version  of  Mandevile's 
Travels,  and  is  the  earliest  edition  printed  with  date  and  place  of  impression  in  any 
language.  It  is  remarkable  that  two  French  editions  also  bear  the  date  of  1480, 
but  neither  of  these  have  the  place  where  they  were  printed,  though  there  is  little 
doubt  they  were  from  a  Lyons  press. 

MANDEVILE,  Sir  John.  Questo.  Sie.  El.  Libro.  De.  Mandavilla. 
{Beneath  tliis  title  a  large  zvoodciit.'\  [Colophon.]  Qui  finesse  el  libro 
de  zoiidne  de  Mandaiiilla  elquale  trata  de  le  cose  maraiiegliose  del  modo. 
Stampato  inMilaiw  per  Rocho  &  Fratelli  da  Vallead  Instdtia  de  Meser 
Nicolo  da  Gorgouzola.    1517-    4^0. 

A— F  in  eights  ;  G,  10  leaves. 

Johannes  von  Monteuilla.    Ritter.    [Colophon.]    Getrtickt  zii 

Straszbitrg  Jolianncs  Priissz.  Anno  Domini.  M.CCCC.lxxxiij.  Folio. 
Woodcuts. 

a,  b,  e,  g,  i,  k,  1,  m,  in  eights,  and  c,  d,  f,  and  h,  in  sixes.  By  a  curious  error  of 
the  press,  the  last  leaf,  which  should  bear  on  the  verso  the  22  concluding  lines  of 
the  register,  has  in  this  copy  a  repetition  of  the  text  and  woodcut  belonging  to  the 
recto  of  the  leaf  i  6.   The  missing  lines  are  replaced  on  a  separate  leaf  in  facsimile. 

First  edition  of  this  translation.  We  learn  the  name  of  the  translator  from  a 
passage  which  precedes  the  table  of  chapters  at  the  end.  It  begins:  "  Ich  Otto 
von  Diemeringen  Thuherre  zu  Metze  in  Lothringen  ban  discs  buch  verwandelt 
ussz  Latin  vnd  welhischer  sproch  in  teutsch."  Yet  the  translation  is  ascribed  to 
Michelfeld  in  the  Grenville  catalogue.  This  first  edition  appears  to  be  unknown  to 
bibliographers.  Panzer,  Hain,  Brunet,  and  Graesse  all  give  1484  as  the  date  of  the 
earliest  impression. 

Another  German  translation  by  Michelfeld  or  Michelfelser  was  printed  at  Augs- 
burg in  1481,  and  reprinted  in  14S2  ;  but  the  translation  of  Otto  von  Diemeringen 
appears  to  have  superseded  it. 

The  Voyages  and  Trauailes  of  Sir  lohn  Mandeuile  Knight. 

Wherein  is  treated  of  the  Way  towards  Hierusalem,  and  of  the  mer- 
uailes  of  Inde,  with  other  Lands  and  Countries.  London,  Printed  by 
Thomas  Snodham.    161 2.    4to.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts. 

A — U  in  fours,  U  4  blank. 

From  the  libraries  of  Sir  Hamon  Le  Strange  and  Lord  Selsey.  On  the  title- 
page  occurs  :  "  Hamon  Le  Strange,    i^^." 

The  Voyages  &  Travels  of  Sir  John  Mandevile,   Knight, 

Wherein  is  set  down  the  Way  to  the  Holy  Land  ....  London, 
Printed  for  R.  Scot,  T.  Basset,  J.  Wright,  and  R.  Chiszvcl.  1684.  4to. 
Black  letter.     Woodcuts. 

A — S  in  fours. 

The  Voyages  and  Travels  of  Sir  John  Mandevile,  Knight : 

....  London:  Printed  by  A.  Wilde,  for  G.  Conyers,  in  Little-Britain, 


MA  NDE  VI L  E—MA  NNING.  897 

T.  Norris,  at  London-bridge,  and  A.  Bettesworth,  in  Pater  noster-Row. 
1722.    4to.     Woodaits.     BL.  M. 

A — R  in  fours. 

MANDEVILE,  Sir  John.  The  Voiage  and  Travaile  of  Sir 
John  Maundevile,  K.  which  treateth  of  the  Way  to  Hierasulem ;  and 
of  Marvayles  of  Inde,  with  other  Hands  and  Countries.  Now  pubHsh'd 
entire  from  an  Original  MS.  in  the  Cotton  Library.  London  .  .  .  1725. 
8vo.    R. 

Pp.  384+xiv.,  beside  contents,  pp.  8,  and  glossary,  pp.  8. 

The  Voiage  and  Travaile  of  Sir  John  Maundevile,  K'.  .  .  . 

Reprinted  from  the  Edition  of  A.  D.  1725.  With  an  Introduction, 
Additional  Notes,  and  Glossary.  By  J.  O.  Halliwell  .  .  .  London  .  . 
1839.    8vo.     Woodcuts.    G.  M. 

The  illustrations  to  this  edition  do  not  occur  in  that  of  1725,  but  were  copied  by 
Mr.  Fairholt  from  an  edition  of  the  seventeenth  century,  except  the  frontispiece, 
which  is  taken  from  a  MS. 

The  Voiage  and  Travaile  of  Sir  John  Maundevile,  K'.  .  .  . 

Londo7i.     1866.    8vo.     Woodcuts.     G.  M. 

One  of  the  twelve  copies  printed  on  thick  paper.  This  copy  is  further  illustrated 
by  a  series  of  woodcuts  taken  from  an  early-printed  German  version  of  the  book. 

MANFREDI,  Jeronimo.     Opera  noua  intitulata  il  perche  vti- 

llssima  ad   intendere  la  cagione  di   molte   cose [Colophon.] 

Stampato  in  Venetia  ad  instantia  de  Zorzi  di  Rnscoi  Milanese. 

1507.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  folios  1-75. 

MANILIUS,  Marcus.  M.  Manilii  Astronomicon  [libri  v.]  [Colo- 
phon.] Ex  officina  loannis  de  Regiomdte  luxbitantis  in  Nnremberga 
oppido  Germanic  cekbratissimo  \s.  a.]   4to.    R.  M. 

Editio  princeps.    Brunei  assigns  to  it  the  date  of  about  1472.    Hain,  10703. 

MANNICH,  Johannes.  Sacra  Emblemata  LXXVI  in  quibus 
summa  uniuscuiusq,  Evangelii  rotunde  adumbratur.  Das  ist  Sechsvnd- 
sibentzig  Geistliche  Figiirlein  in  welchen  eines  ieden  Evangelij  Summa 

Kiirzhchen  wird  abgebildet Niirnberg  Anno  C/iristi  1624.    4to. 

Portrait  and  plates. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  A — Y  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

MANNING,  Owen,  and  William  BRAY.  The  History  and 
Antiquities  of  the  County  of  Surrey ;  Compiled  from  the  best  and 
most  authentic  Historians,  valuable  Records,  and  manuscripts  in  the 
Public  Offices  and  Libraries,  and  in  private  hands.   With  a  Fac  Simile 

5  M 


898  MANOLESSO—MANTUAN. 

copy  of  Domesday,  engraved  on  thirteen  plates.     By  the  late  Rev. 

Owen  Manning Continued  to  the  present  time  by  William 

Bray,  of  Shire.'^Esq London  .  .  .  1804-14.    3  vols,  bound  in  7. 

Folio.    Portraits,  plates,  &c. 

This  copy  is  enlarged  into  seven  volumes  by  the  addition  of  a  great  number  of 
extra  illustrations  consisting  of  valuable  engraved  portraits  and  views,  and  a  great 
number  of  original  drawings. 

MANOLESSO,  E.  M.  Historia  nova,  nella  quale  si  contengono 
tutti  i  successi  della  guerra  Turchesca,  la  Congiura  del  Duca  de  Nort- 
folch  contra  la  Regina  d'Inghilterra ;  la  guerra  dl  Fiandra,  Flisinga, 
Zelanda,  &  Holanda  ;  I'uccisione  d'Vgonotti,  le  morti  de  Prencipi, 
I'elettioni  de  noui,  e  finalmente  tutto  quello  che  nel  monde  e  occorso, 
da  I'anno.  MDLXX.  fino  all'hora  presente.  .  .  .  Stampato  in  Padoua 
Per  Lorenzo  Pasqiiati,  Anno  MDLXX II.  4to.  R.  M. 
Title  and  preface,  2  leaves  ;  folios  l-ioo. 

MANRIQUE,  Jorge.  Coplas  que  hizo  don  lorge  Manrlque,  a  la 
muerte  del  Maestre  de  Sanctiago,  don  Rodrigo  Manrique  su  padre. 
Impressas  con  licencia  en  Cuenca,  en  casa  de  Bartolome  de  Selma,  Aflode 
1603.    4to. 

Four  leaves.  Beneath  the  title  is  a  rude  woodcut  of  several  persons  standing 
before  a  tomb.     The  edition  appears  to  be  quite  undescribed. 

Las  coplas  de  Don  lorge  Manrique.    Co  vna  glossa  muy 

deuota  y  Christiana  de  vn  religioso  de  la  Cartuxa.     Va  juntamete  vn 

caso  memorable  de  la  couersion  de  vna   dama  ....  la  glossa  de 

Mingo  Reuulgo :  y  las  cartas  en  refranes  de  Blasco  Garay 

Con  un  dialogo  entre  el   amor,  y  vn  cauallero  viejo  copuesto   por 

Rodrigo  Cota.    En  Madrid  por  Juan  de  la  Ciicsta.     1614.    Agenda 

form.     R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  folios  1-204. 

MANSHIP,  Henry.  The  History  of  Great  Yarmouth.  By  Henry 
Manship,  Town  Clerk,  temp.  Queen  Elisabeth.     Edited  by  Charles 

John  Palmer,  F.S.A.  Great  Yarmouth 1854-6.    2  vols.    4to. 

Plates.    R.  M. 

The  second  volume,  the  materials  for  which  were^notlcnown  to  the  editor  when 
he  published  the  first,  is  a  supplement. 

MANTUAN,  Baptist.  The  Eglogs  of  the  Poet  B.  Mantuan 
Carmelitan,  Turned  into  English  Verse,  &  set  forth' >ith  the  Argu- 
ment to  euery  Egloge  by  George  Turberuile  Gent.  Anno.  1567.  Im- 
printed at  London  in  Pater  noster  Rowe,  at  the  signe  of  the  Marmayde, 
by  Henrie  Bynneman.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 


MANUAL— MANU  ALE.  899 

A — N  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

First  edition.  Dedicated  by  Turbervile  to  his  uncle,  Hugh  Bamfield,  Esquire. 
N  6  is  occupied  by  the  printer's  colophon,  and  N  7  by  the  errata.  From  the  col- 
lections of  Mr.  Gardner  and  Mr.  Corser. 

In  1 566- 1 567  Bynneman  paid  "for  his  lycense  for  pryntinge  of  the  fyrste  iiij'"' 
eggloges  of  Mantuan  &c  .  .  .  .  iiij'',"  and  very  shortly  afterwards  "  for  his  lycense 
for  pryntinge  of  a  boke  intituled  the  Rest  of  the  eggloges  of  Mantuan  ....  iiij''." 
No  separate  publication  of  the  book  in  two  parts  is  now  known,  and  it  was  probably 
never  so  printed. 

MANUAL  OF  PRAYERS.  The  Manual  of  prayers/  or  the 
prymer  in  Englysh  &  Laten  set  out  at  length,  whose  contentes  the 
reader  by  y  prologe  next  after  the  Kaleder  shal  sone  perceaue,  and 
there  in  shall  se  brefly  the  order  of  the  whole  boke.  [Quotations.]  Set 
forth  by  Jhon  by  Goddes  grace,  &  the  Kynges  callyng,  Bysshoppe 
of  Rochester  at  the  comaundemente  of  the  ryghte  honorable  lorde 
Thomas  Cromwell,  lorde  Priuie  seale.  Vicegerent  to  the  Kynges  hygh- 
nes.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  Lddo  in  jlctestrcte  by  me  John  IVay- 
land  in  saynt  Dustones  parysh  at  the  signe  of  the  bleive  Garland  next  to 
tlie  Temple  bare.  In  the  yere  of  our  Lorde  God  a  M.  D.  xxxix.  tlie 
XV.  daye  of  July.  Cum  priuilegio  ad  Impriniendum  solum.  4to.  Black 
letter. 

Title,  I  page  ;  dedication  to  Thomas,  Lord  Cromwell,  by  the  Bishop  of  Rochester 
[Hilsey]  and  prologue,  2  pages,  the  first  on  the  back  of  the  title  ;  the  calendar,  pp.  12  ; 
the  prologue  to  the  whole  work,  pp.  3"  ;  then  the  "  Symbol  of  Athanasius  "  and  the 
book  itself,  BB  ii — EE  ii  in  fours;  A — li  in  fours  ;  +,  2  leaves  ;  KK — VV  in 
fours.     From  the  library  of  the  Marquis  of  Hastings. 

This  first  edition  of  Bp.  Hilsey's  ''Manual  of  Prayers"  is  unquestionablya  book  of 
the  highest  rarity.  Herbert  just  gives  the  title,  but  had  evidently  not  seen  it.  There 
were  two  other  editions  of  it  printed  in  the  same  year,  but  both  of  them  were  clearly 
subsequent  to  this,  as  Bp.  Hilsey  is  described  on  the  titles  as  "  late  Bishop  of  Roches- 
ter." One  of  them  was  an  abridged  edition  for  the  use  of  children,  and  the  other  was 
the  English  only,  without  the  Latin  version.  Lowndes  has  evidently  copied  the  title 
from  Herbert,  with  omissions.  The  three  statements  he  makes  respecting  the  book 
are  entirely  wrong,  ist.  The  observation  he  attributes  to  Herbert  belongs  to  the 
edition  in  English  only.  2ndly.  The  reference  to  Heber's  catalogue  does  not  apply 
to  this  edition.  3rdly.  Not  this  edition,  but  the  one  with  English  only,  was  reprinted 
by  Dr.  Burton.  There  is  no  copy  of  this  edition  in  the  British  Museum,  but  there  is 
one  of  the  edition  reprinted  by  Dr.  Burton.  The  imprint  of  that  is,  "  Imprinted  in 
Botiilph  lane,  at  the  sygiie  of  the  whyt  beare,  by  me  Jhon  Mayler,  for  Jhon  Way- 
lande :  and  be  to  sell  in  powles  church  yarde,  by  Andrew  Hester,  also  at  the  whyi 
horse,  &»  Michel  Lobley,  at  tlie  sygne  of  saynt  Mychell" 

MANUALE  ad  vsum  percelebris  ecclesie  Sarisburiesis.  Londini 
receter  impressum,  necnon  multis  medis  tersum  atcj,  emendatum. 
Londini.  Anno  Domini  1$^^  [Colophon.]  Explicit  M annate  ad  vsum 
insignis  ecclesie  Sarisburiensis  tarn  in  cantii  If  in  litera  diligentissime 
recognitum  :  et  nusf  ante  hac  eliinatins  impressum.  In  quo  eaque  seruat 
ecclesiasiicus  ritus  ordine  congruo  coniiectuntur.     Impressum  Londini  ex 


goo  MANWOOD—MARCELLINE. 

officitia  lohannis  Kingston.  &  Hcnricus  Sutton  impress.    Anno  1554. 

4to.    BR.  M. 

A^X  in  eights. 

MANWOOD,  John.  A  Treatise  and  Discourse  of  the  Lawes  of 
the  Forrest :  Wherin  is  declared  not  onely  those  Lawes,  as  they  are 
now  in  force,  but  also  the  originall  and  beginning  of  Forrestes  :  And 
what  a  Forrest  is  in  his  ovvne  proper  nature,  and  wherein  the  same 
doth  differ  from  a  Chase,  a  Park,  or  a  Warren,  with  all  such  thinges 
as  are  incident  or  belonging  thereunto,  with  their  seuerall  proper 
Tearmes  of  art :  .  .  .  Also  a  Treatise  of  the  Purallee,  declaring  v/hat 
Purallee  is  .  .  .  Collected  and  gathered  together,  aswell  out  of  the 
Common  Lawes  and  Statutes  of  this  land.  As  also  out  of  sundry  learned 
auncient  Aucthors,  and  out  of  the  Assises  and  Iters  of  Pickring  and 
Lancaster.  At  London  Printed  by  Tkontas  Wight  and  Bonhain  Norton. 
1598.    Cum  Priiiilegio.    4to.    Black  letter. 

*,  4  leaves  ;  **,  4  leaves  ;  A — Bb  2  in  fours  ;  A — D  in  fours  ;  E — Z  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  Charles,  Earl  of  Nottingham.  Lord  Nottingham  was  Constable 
of  Windsor  Forest,  and  Chief  Justice  and  Justice  in  Eyre  of  all  the  Forests,  &c., 
south  of  Trent.  The  treatise,  "  What  Purlieu,  or  rather,  Pourallee  is,"  begins  on 
p.  127. 

MAP  OF  MISCHIEF.  A  Mappe  of  Mischiefe,  or  a  Dialogue 
Betweene  V.[nited  Provinces.'']  and  E.[ngland]  concerning  the  going  of 
Qu.[een]  M.[ary]  into  V.[nited  Provinces.]  V.  much  lamenteth  there- 
fore, and  if  not  comforted  by  E.[ngland.]  Printed  in  the yeare  of  de- 
liverance, 1 64 1.    4to. 

Four  leaves.    In  prose. 

This  tract  refers  to  the  unpopular  journey  of  Queen  Henrietta  Maria  into 
Holland  in  1641.  England  concludes  by  exhorting  V.  to  be  jolly,  v^hereupon  the 
latter  rejoins  : — 

"  It's  a  folly  to  be  jolly, 

When  wee  should  be  melanchoUy." 

MARBAN,  Pedro.    Arte  de  la  Lengua  Moxa,  con  su  Vocabu- 

lario,  y  Cathecismo.    Compuesto  por  el  M.  R.  P.  Pedro  Marban  de  la 

Compania  de  Jesvs,  Superior,  que  fue,  de  las  Missiones  de  Infieles, 

que  tiene  la  Compafiia  de  esta  Provincia  de  el  Peru  en  las  dilatadas 

Regiones  de  los  Indios  Moxos,  y  Chiquitos En  la  Imprenta 

Real  de  Joseph  de  Contreras.    [Lima.     1701.]    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves;  pp.  1-664;  the  Catechism,  pp.  1-202  and  a 
leaf  of  index. 

MARCELLINE,  George.  Epithalamium  Gallo-Britannicum  : 
Or,  Great-Britaines,  Frances,  and  the  most  parts  of  Europes  vnspeak- 
able  loy,  for  the  most  happy  Vnion  and  blessed  Contract  of  the  High 


MARCH.  901 

and  Mighty  Prince  Charles,  Prince  of  Wales,  And  the  Lady  Henrette 
Maria,  daughter  to  Henry  the  fourth  .  .  .  and  Sister  to  Lewis  the 
thirteenth  ....  Manifesting  the  royall  Ancestors  and  famous  Pro- 
genitors of  the  Mighty  Prince  Charles,  and  the  most  Illustrious  Prin- 
cesse,  the  Lady  Henrette,  Explaining  the  sweete  interchanges  of 
Mariages,  as  haue  beene  betweene  France  and  Great  Britaine.  Pre- 
saging the  destruction  and  ruine  of  Antichrist,  the  establishment  of 
the  true  Faith,  the  propagation  of  the  Gospell,  the  restitution  of  the 
Palatinate,  the  ouerthrowing  of  the  Enemies  designes  ....  London, 
Printed  for  Thomas  Archer,  and  are  to  be  sold  in  Popes  Head-Alley, 
ouer  against  tlie  signe  of  tlie  Horse-shooe.  1625.  4to.  The  edges 
uncut.    R.  M. 

T,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  A — T  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

In  prose,  although  in  the  dedication  to  the  Prince  the  author  calls  it  a  "  Marriage 
Song."  There  is  a  beautifully  engraved  frontispiece,  containing  full-length  portraits 
of  Charles  and  his  bride  in  the  centre,  under  a  triumphal  arch,  emblematically 
decorated  and  surrounded  by  shields  of  arms  and  genealogies.  Below  the  portraits 
is  inscribed  on  a  tablet  :  "  Epithalamium  Gallo-Britannicvm.  or  a  Discourse  of  the 
Mariage  betwixt  England  and  France.  With  the  true  pourtratures  of  the  Most 
Illustrious  Princes  .  .  .  ."  and  at  the  foot  are  some  verses  and  the  publisher's 
imprint :  '■'■Are  to  be  sold  by  Thomas  Archer  ,  .  ." 

MARCH,  MOSEN  AUSIAS.  Las  obras  del  famosissimo  philosofo 
y  poeta  mossen  Osias  Marco  cauallero  Valeciano  de  nacion  Catalan, 
traduzidas  por  don  Baltasar  de  Romani,  y  diuididas  en  quatro  Can- 
ticas  :  es  a  saber:  Cantica  de  Amor,  Cantica  Moral,  Caticade  Muerte, 
y  Cantica  Spiritual.  Derigidas  al  excelentissimo  sefior  el  duque  de 
Calabria.  Ajino.M.D.XXXIX.  [Colophon.]  Ha  sido  impressa  la pre- 
sente  obra  enla  niuy  noble  ciiidad  de  Valencia  Por  Juan  Nauarro.  Aca- 
bosse  a  dies  del  vies  de  Margo.  A  fio  M.Djcxxix.  Folio.  Black  letter. 
Folios  i.-cxix.,  including  the  title.     First  edition.     See  Salvi,  i.,  No.  766. 

Les  obres  del  valeros  y  extrenv  Cavalier.    Vigil  y  elegan- 

tissim  Poeta  Ausias  March.  Nouament  reuistes  y  estampades  ah 
gran  cura  y  diligencia.  Posades  totes  les  declarasions  dels  uocables 
scurs  molt  largamet  en  la  taula.  M.  D.  XXXXV.  [Colophon.]  Foren 
impeses  y  acabades  les  obres  del  extreii  cauoller  mossen  Ausias  March 
en  la  insigne  Ciutat  de  Barcelona  per  Carles  avioros  Prouencal  en  lany 
M.  D.  XXXXV.  a.  xxij.  del  mes  de  Desembre.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  index,  4  leaves  ;  A— V  in  eights  ;  X,  12  leaves. 

Of  this  edition  Seiior  Salvi  says:  "  La  edicion  de  1545  es  una  reimpresion  de 
la  publicada  dos  aiios  antes,  con  la  linica  diferencia  de  que  la  interpretacion  de  las 
palabras  oscuras  6  difi'ciles,  puesta  al  margen  de  la  primera,  en  esta  va  colocada 
por  drden  alfabetico,  tras  de  la  tabla." 

Las  obras  del  Poeta  Mosen  Ausias  March,  corregidas  delos 


errores  q  tenian.    Sale  con  ellas  el  vocabulario  delos  vocablos  enellas 


902  MARCH  ANT— MARCO    POLO. 

contenidos Impresso  en  Valladolid,  Afio  de  1555.    [Colophon.] 

....  File  impresso  d  presente  tractado  en  ...  .  Valladolid  .  .  .  En  casa 
de  Sebastid  Marlines  impressor.  Acabose  de  imprimir  a  veynte  dias  <? 
Febrero  Aflo.  De.  1555.  Alios.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — MM,  including  the  title  and  preliminary  leaves. 

MARCHANT,  John.  Puerilia:  or,  Amusements  for  the  Young. 
Consisting  of  A  Collection  of  Songs,  Adapted  to  the  Fancies  &  Ca- 
pacities 'of  those  of  tender  Years,  and  taken  from  their  usual  Diver- 
sions and  Employments  ;  also  on  Subjects  of  a  more  elevated  Nature. 
Divided  into  Three  Parts.  Viz.  I.  Songs  for  Little  Misses.  II.  Songs 
for  Young  Masters.  III.  Songs  on  Divine,  Moral  and  other  Subjects. 
....  London.  Printed  for  P.  Stevens,  and  Sold  by  the  Booksellers  in 
Town  atid  Country.     1751-    8vo. 

Title  and  folding  frontispiece,  2  leaves  ;  a,  4  leaves ;  '.•,  6  leaves  ;  A — I  8  in 
twelves. 

MARCO  POLO.  Marco  Polo  da  Veniesia  de  le  merauegliose  cose 
del  Mondo.  [Colophon.]  ....  Lmpresso  iii  Venetia  per  zoanne  Baptista 
da  Sessa  Milanese  del.  M.ccccxcvi.  adi  xiii.  del  mese  de  Iiinio  regnddo  lo 
Illiistrissivio  Principe  Augustino  Barbadico  i7iclyto  Dnce  di  Venetia. 
Sm.  8vo.     BR.  M. 

First  edition  in  Italian.  Brunei  describes  it  as  consisting  of  only  forty-four 
leaves,  which  is  just  forty  less  than  the  real  number.  The  last  leaf  bears  only  the 
register  and  printer's  device  on  the  recto,  the  verso  is  blank. 

Marco  Polo  da  Veniesia  de  le  marauegliose  cose  del  Mondo. 

[Colophon.]  <[  Impresso  in  Venetia  per  MelcJiior  Sessa.  Anno  Dni. 
M.CCCCCVIIL   Adi.  XXL  sugno.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

a — g  in  eights,  including  the  title. 

The  second  edition  in  Italian.  An  imperfect  copy  of  the  first  edition  is  in  the 
Grenville  collection. 

[On  the  recto  of  a  i.]    In  nomine  dfii  nrl  ihij  xpi  filij  dei 

viui  et  veri  amen.  Incipit  plogus  i  libro  dhi  marci  pauli  de  veneciis 
de  cosuetudinibus  et  codicionibus  orientaliu  regionu.  [On  folio  74, 
recto.]  Explicit  liber  dhi  marci  de  venecijs  Deo  gracias.  {^Siiie  ulld 
notd.]    4to.     Black  letter.     BR.  M. 

a — h  in  eights ;  i,  4  leaves ;  k,  6  leaves. 

From  the  press  of  Gerard  Leeu  of  Antwerp.  See  Campbell,  "  Annales  de  la 
Typographic  Nderlandaise,"  No.  1434.  Brunei  describes  the  book  as  having  eight 
leaves  to  sig.  k  ;  but  this  would  make  seventy-six  leaves,  instead  of  the  seventy-four 
he  gives  to  it. 

Marco  paulo.  Ho  liuro  de  Nycolao  veneto.     O  trallado  da 


carta  de  huu  genoues  das  ditas  terras.    Co  priuilegio  del  Rey  nosso 


MARCO  POLO— MARGARET.  903 

senhor.  q  nenhuu  fa^a  a  impressam  deste  liuro.  ne  ho  venda  em 
todollos  se^  regnos  1  senhorios  sem  li^e^a  de  Valentim  fernadez  so  pena 
cotenda  na  carta  do  seu  preuilegio.    Ho  pre^o  delle.    Cento  x  dez  reaes. 

[Colophon.] Imprimido  per  Valentym  fernadez  alemado.   Em  a 

muy  nobre  cida  de  Lyxboa.  Era  de  Mil  &  quhi/ientos  &  doiis  annos. 
A  OS.  qtiatro  dias  do  mes  de  Feureyro.     Folio.     Black  letter.     R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves.  The  text  begins  on  the  ninth  leaf,  which  is 
enclosed  in  a  woodcut  border  of  very  fine  design.  This  leaf  has  neither  folio  nor 
signature,  but  the  following  leaf  has  folio  ii.  and  sig.  a  ii.  The  text  ends  on  the 
recto  of  folio  xcviii.,  and  on  the  verso  of  the  same  leaf  is  a  large  woodcut  of  the 
printer's  mark  with  the  colophon  beneath. 

The  first  part  of  the  title  given  by  Brunei  is  merely  made  up,  and  forms  no  part 
of  the  real  title  of  the  book. 

Very  large  and  fine  copy. 

MARCO  POLO.  La  Description  geographique  des  provinces  & 
viUes  plus  fameuses  de  I'lnde  Orientale,  meurs,  loix,  &  coustumes  des 
habitans  d'icelles,  mesmement  de  ce  qui  est  soubz  la  domination  du 

grand  Cham  Empereur  des  Tartares A  Paris,  pour  Vincent 

Sertenas 1556.    4to.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  folios  1-123,  and  i  leaf  with  the  printer's 
device. 

[MAREES,  PlETER  DE.]  Beschr>'vinge  ende  Historische  verhael, 
vant  Gout  Koninckrijck  van  Gunea,  anders  de  Gout-custe  de  Mina 
genaemt,  liggende  in  het  deel  van  Africa :  met  haren  gelooven, 
opinien,  handelingen,  oft  niangelingen,  manieren  talen,  en  haere  ghe- 
legentheyt  van  Landen,  Steden,  Hutten,  Huysen  en  Persoonen : 
havenen  ende  Revieren,  soo  de  selve  tot  noch  toe  bevonden  worden. 

Gedriict  tot    Amstclredaiii,    by    Cornells  Clacsz,  woonende   opt 

Water  int  Schrijfboeck.    Anno  1602.    Oblong  4to. 

Reprinted  in  De  Bry,  "  Petits  Voyages,"  torn,  vi.,  1604.  See  Camus,  "  Mdmoire," 
p.  217,  and  Muller,  "  M^m.  Bibliogr.,"  p.  148,  where  a  full  collation  is  given. 

MARGARET,  Saint.  Here  begynneth  the  lyfe  of  saynte  Mar- 
garete.  [Colophon.]  Enprynted  at  London  wihtin  Temple  barre  in 
saynt  Donnstones paryslie  at  the  Syne  of  the  George  by  me  Robert  Red- 
man.   [^fo«;  1530.]    4to.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

A — C  in  fours.    With  Pynson's  device  on  the  verso  of  the  last  leaf.     In  verse. 

The  title  given  above  is  over  a  large  woodcut  of  the  saint  accompanied  by  a 
lion,  which  occupies  the  remainder  of  the  page  and  is  repeated  on  the  back. 

The  only  copy  known.  From  the  libraries  of  Dr.  Bliss  and  Mr.  Corser.  In  the 
Bodleian  there  is  a  fragment. 

Dr.  Bliss  was  fortunate  enough  to  discover  this  unique  poetical  tract  at  Taunton 
in  1834. 

La   vie   de   madame   sainte   Marguerite   vierge  &   martyre 


904  M  ARC  A  RE  T—MA  R INE  US. 

auec  son  antienne  et  oraison.    [Colophon.]     hnprime  a  parts  pour 

Symon  Troude \_vers  1 500].    8vo.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

From  the  collection  of  Armand  Bertin.  This  edition  is  not  cited  by  Brunei.  It 
consists  of  eight  leaves,  thirty-four  lines  to  the  page.  On  the  verso  of  the  last  leaf 
is  a  large  wroodcut  of  the  Crucifixion. 

MARGARET,  Saint.  La  vie  de  madame  saincte  Marguerite, 
vierge  &  martyre.  Avec  son  Antienne  &  Oraison.  \Sans  lieu  ni 
date.]    4to.    Blaek  letter.    BR.  M. 

Six  leaves,  with  thirty-two  lines  to  the  page. 

This  edition  is  also  undescribed  by  Brunei. 

MARGARET  OF  NAVARRE.  Marguerites  de  la  Marguerite 
des  Princesses,  tresillustre  Royne  de  Navarre.    A  Lyon,  par  lean  de 

Tovrnes.    M.D.XL  VII. Suyte  des  Margverites  de  la  Margverite 

des  Princesses,  tresillustre  Royne  de  Navarre.     A  Lyon 

M.D.XL  VII.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

a — z  and  A — L  in  eights  ;  and  a—y  4  in  eights. 

L'Heptameron  des  Nowelles  de  tresillustre   et   tresexcel- 


lente  Princesse  Marguerite  de  Valois,  Royne  de  Nauarre :  Remis  en 

son  vray  ordre,  confus  au  parauant  en  sa  premiere  impression  :  &  dedie 

a  tresillustre  &  tresvertueuse  Princesse  leanne,  Royne  de   Nauarre, 

par  Claude  Gruget   Parisian.     A    Paris,   Par  Benoist  Preuost,   rue 

Fremetel,  d,  Venseigne  de  VEstoille  d'or  pres  le  clos  Brnneau.     1560. 

4to.    G.  M. 

Title  and  table,  4  leaves,  and  a — 2  and  A — Gg  in  fours. 

MARI^  MAGDALENyE  DE  PAZZIS,  Vita,  iconibus  expressa 
a  G.  Bouttats  et  A.  Diepenbeke.    [Sine  loco  aut  anno.]    Folio. 

MARIANA,  Juan  de.    Historia  general  de  Espafia En 

Madrid.    1780.    2  vols.    Folio. 

MARINEUS  SICULUS,  Lucius. 

Pandit  Aragoni^  veterum  primordia  regum 
Hoc  opus :  et  forti  pr^lia  gesta  manu. 
[These  words  are  at  the  foot  of  a  woodcut  of  a  large  shield  of  arms, 
supported  by  an  angel.    On  a  iii  is  the  heading]  Lucii  Marinei  Siculi 
de  primis  Aragonie  regibus :  et  eorum  gestarum  perbreui  narratioe 
liber  primus.     [Colophon.]     Impressum  est  hoc  opus  in   Ccsaraugusta 
inclyta  ciuitate  lussu  et  auctoritate  octo  virormn  Aragonie  regni  dcpu- 
tatoru} :  Industria  vera  Georgii  Coci  Alemani.    Pridie  Caledas  Maias : 
Anno  dotnini  millcsimo  quingentesiino  nono.    Folio. 
Forty-nine  leaves,  including  title. 

From  the  manner  in  which  Brunei  describes  the  book,  it  appears  probable  that 
the  copy  he  had  seen  wanted  the  title. 


MARINE  US— MARK  HAM.  905 

MARINEUS  SICULUS,  Lucius,  Svmario  de  la  clarissima  vida: 
y  heroycos  hechos  de  los  catholicos  reyes  don  Fernado  y  dona  Ysabel 
de  immortal  memoria :  Sacado  dela  obra  grande  delas  cosas  memor- 
ables  d'  Espana.     Compuesta  por  el  muy  docto  varon  Lucio  marineo 

siculo.    Coronista  d'  su  Magestad.    [Colophon.] Toledo  en  casa 

d'Jitd  de  Ayala mil  y  quinietos  y  quareta  y  scyes  aiios.    410. 

Black  letter. 

MARKET.    The  Lawes  of  the  Market.    Printed  by  W.  Jaggard, 
Printer  to  tJie  Honourable  City  of  London,  1 620.    Sm.  8vo. 
A — B  4  in  eights,  the  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

MARKFIELD.  The  Dreadful  and  most  Prodigious  Tempest  at 
Markfield  in  Leicestershire,  On  Thursday  Septemb.  7.  Where  most 
wonderful  Stones  of  Hail  fell  down  in  the  forms  of  Swords,  Daggers, 
and  Halberts.  Together  with  the  Terrible  Claps  of  Thunder,  And  the 
noise  of  two  Armies  incountring  one  another  .  .  .  With  The  Dreadful 
Devastation  it  made  on  the  Ground,  Trees  being  plucked  up  by  the 
roots,  and  Walls  and  Houses  torn  in  pieces.  .  .  .  To  which  is  added 
the  last  Observation  of  Sir  George  Booth  :  His  Character,  Transforma- 
tion, and  his  Epitaph.  London,  Printed  for  Will.  Gilbertson  at  the 
Sign  of  tlie  Bible  and  Spur  in  Giltspur-street,  1659.  4to. 
i  Four  leaves.    Partly  in  verse. 

MARKHAM,  Gervase.  ADiscovrceofHorsmanshippe.  Wherein 
the  breeding  and  ryding  of  Horses  for  seruice,  in  a  breefe  manner  is 
more  methodically  sett  downe  then  hath  been  heeretofore.  With  a 
more  easie  and  direct  course  for  the  ignorant,  to  attaine  to  the  same 
arte  or  knowledge.  Also  the  manner  to  chuse,  trayne,  ryde  and  dyet, 
both  Hunting-horses,  and  Running-horses  :  with  all  the  secretes  thereto 
belonging  discouered.  An  arte  neuer  heeretofore  written  by  any 
Authour.  .  .  .  At  London,  Printed  by  1.  C.  for  Ricfmrd  Sinitk,  and  are 
to  be  sold  at  his  slioppe  at  the  West-doore  of  Ponies.  Anno  Doni.  1593. 
4to.     Woodcuts.     Black  letter. 

H,  2  leaves  ;  A — L  in  fours. 

First  edition.  The  only  copy  known,  and  the  earliest  publication  by  JIarkham 
at  present  ascertained  to  exist,  his  "Thyrsis  and  Daphne"  not  having  been  re- 
covered. The  tract  is  dedicated  "  To  the  Right  worshipfull  and  his  singuler  good 
Father,  Ma.  Robert  Markham,  of  Cotham  in  the  County  of  Nottingham,  Esquire." 
In  a  short  address  to  the  Gentlemen  Readers,  which  follows,  Markham  remarks  : 
"  The  winde  (Gentlemen)  standing  in  the  mouth  of  my  Caue,  hath  blowne  my  loose 
papers  into  the  world,  and  canonized  mee  as  foolish  in  Poules  Church-yard ." 

The  Teares  of  the  Beloved  :  Or,  The  Lamentation  of  Saint 

lohn.    Concerning  the  death  and  passion  of  Christ  lesus  our  Sauiour. 

5  N 


9o6  MARK  HAM. 

By  I.  M.  Imprinted  at  Lotidon  by  Simon  Stafford :  and  are  to  be  sold 
by  lohn  Broivne,  at  the  signe  of  the  Bible  in  Fleetest reete.  1600. 
4to.    G.  M. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B—  F  2  in  fours.     In  six-line  stanzas. 

The  Heber  copy.  Markham's  initials  only  occur  at  the  foot  of  the  Epistle  to 
the  Christian  Reader,  but  the  tract  has  usually  been  attributed  to  his  pen. 

MARKHAM,  Gervase.  The  English  Hvsbandman.  The  first 
Part :  Contayning  the  Knowledge  of  the  true  Nature  of  euery  Soyle 
within  this  Kingdome  :  how  to  Plow  it  .  .  .  Together  with  the  Art  of 
Planting,  Grafting,  and  Gardening  after  our  latest  and  rarest  fashion. 
A  worke  neuer  written  before  by  any  Author :  and  now  newly  compiled 
for  the  benefit  of  this  Kingdome.  By  G.[ervase]  M.[arkham].  Bramo 
assai,  poeo  spero,  mdla  ehieggio.  London:  Printed  by  T.  S.  for  lohn 
Browne,  and  are  to  be  sould  at  his  shop  in  Saint  Dunstanes  Chureli- 
yard.    161 3.    4to.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts. 

IT,  2  leaves  ;  A — I  in  fours  ;  B — S  2  in  fours.  Then  comes  a  new  title:  "The 
Second  Booke  of  the  English  Husbandman.  Contayning  the  Ordering  of  the 
Kitchin-Garden,  and  the  Planting  of  Strange  Flowers:  the  breeding  of  all  manner 

of  Cattell VVherevnto  is  added  a  Treatise,  called  Good  mens  Recreation  : 

Contayning  a  Discourse  of  the  generall  Art  of  Fishing  with  the  Angle,  and  other- 
wise ;  and  of  all  the  hidden  secrets  belonging  thereunto.  Together  with  the  Choyce, 
Ordering,  Breeding  and  Dyeting  of  the  fighting  Cocke.  A  Worke  neuer  written 
before  by  any  Author.  By  G.  M.  Lniuion  :  Printed  by  T.  S.for  loJin  Bro^vne  .  .  . 
1614."    A,  4  leaves,  title  on  A  2  ;  (A),  4  leaves;  B — O    in   fours.    Then  follows 

a  third  title  :  "The  Pleasvres  of  Princes,  or  Good  mens  Recreations." 

A — G  3  in  fours. 

The  Second  and  Last  Part  of  the  First  Booke  of  the  English 


I 


Arcadia.  Making  a  compleate  end  of  the  first  History  :  Full  of 
various  deceptions,  and  much  Interchangeable  matter  of  wit.  Amatit 
alter na  Canience.  By  G.  M.  London.  Printed  by  Nicholas  Okes  for 
Thomas  Saunders,  and  arc  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  Holborne  at  the 
Signe  of  the  Mer-maid.    1613.    4to.    CM. 

A — Q  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  by  Markham  "  To  his  Deere  and  most  respected  Friend,  Maister 
Francis  Darlow,  of  Graies-Inne  Esquire." 

This  copy,  from  the  collections  of  Sir  Robert  Gordon  of  Gordonstoun  and  Mr. 
Corser,  is  the  only  one  known.  It  was  written,  as  appears  from  the  title,  with  a 
view  of  supplying  an  imperfection  in  the  thread  of  Sydney's  narrative. 

Cavalarice,  Or  the  English  Horseman  :  Contayning  all  the 

Art  of  Horse-manship,  asmuch  as  is  necessary  for  any  man  to  vnder- 
stand,  whether  hee  be  Horse-breeder,  horse-ryder,  horse-hunter,  horse- 
runner,  horse-ambler,  horse-farrier,  horse-keeper,  Coachman,  Smith,  or 
Sadler.    Together,  with  the  discouery  of  the  subtil  trade  or  mystery  of 


MARK  HAM. 


907 


hors-coursers,  and  an  explanation  of  the  excellency  of  a  horses  vnder- 
standing  :  or  how  to  teach  the  to  do  trickes  like  Bankes  his  Curtail  : 
....  By  Geruase  Markham.  \London  Printed  by  Edward  Allde  for 
Edward  Whitel\    161 7.    4to.     Woodcuts. 

A — Bbb  in  eights. 

Each  of  the  eight  books  into  which  the  work  is  divided  has  a  separate  title.     It 
appears  to  be  an  enlarged  edition  of  his  "  Discource  of  Horsmanshippe." 

MARKHAM,  Gervase.     Cheape  and  Good  Husbandry  for  the 
well-Ordering  of  all  Beasts  and  Fowles,  and  for  the  generall  Cure  of 

their  Diseases The  fift  Edition.    Londott.   Printed  by  Nicholas 

Okesfor  lohn  Harison  .  .  .  1621.    4to. 

A,  8  leaves  ;  B,  6  leaves  ;  C — O  6  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  true  Tragedy  of  Herod  and  Antipater  :  With  the  Death 


of  faire  Marriam.  According  to  losephus,  the  learned  and  famous 
lewe.  As  it  hath  beene,  of  late,  diuers  times  publiquely  Acted  (with 
great  Applause)  at  the  Red  Bull,  by  the  Company  of  his  Maiesties 
Revels.  Written  by  Gervase  Markham,  And  William  Sampson.  Gen- 
tlemen. London  Printed  by  G.  Eld,  for  Matltew  Rhodes,  and  are  to  bee 
Sold  at  Ids  Shop  at  the  vpper  end  of  the  Old  Bayly,  neerc  Newgate, 
1622.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves.  A  2  is  occupied  by  the  Prologue  and  "  The  Printers  Epigramma- 
ticall  Epistle,  to  the  vnderstanding  Readers  ; "  B — L  in  fours. 

This  drama  was  assigned  over  to  Francis  Smith,  9th  May,  1633,  being  then 
described  as  the  unassisted  production  of  Markham  ;  but  no  other  edition  than 
that  of  1622  seems  to  have  occurred.  See  Arber,  iv.,  269.  Smith  assigned  it  again 
to  Thomas  Lambert  on  the  3rd  of  August  following. 

Honovr  in  his  Perfection  :  Or,  A  Treatise  in  Commendations 


of  the  Vertues  and  Renowned  Vertuous  vndertakings  of  the  Illustrious 
and  Heroyicall  Princes  Henry  Earle  of  Oxenford.  Henry  Earle  of 
Southampton.  Robert  Earle  of  Essex,  and  the  euer  praise-worthy  and 
much  honoured  Lord,  Robert  Bartve,  Lord  Willoughby  of  Eresby  .  .  . 
London,  Printed  by  B.  Alsop,for  Beniatnin  Fisher,  and  are  to  be  sold  at 
his  shop  in  Pater  noster  Row,  at  the  Signe  of  the  Talbot.   1624.  4to.  R.  M. 

A — F  in  fours. 

Dedicated  by  Markham  to  the  houses  of  Oxford,  Southampton,  Essex,  and 
Willoughby.  From  the  collection  of  Mr.  Corser,  who  notes  ;  "  There  is  a  long 
note  on  this  book  in  the  Nassau  catalogue." 

Vox  Militis  :    Foreshewing  what  Perils  are  procvred  where 


the  people  of  this,   or  any  other  kingdome  liue  without  regard  of 

Marshall  discipline Diuided  into  two  parts,  the  first  manifesting 

for  what  causes  Princes  may  enter  into  warre,  and  how  necessary  and 


9o8  MARK  HAM. 

vsuall  it  is,  drawne  from  the  actions  of  the  Prince  of  Orange.  The 
second  discourseth  of  warre,  souldiers,  and  the  time  when  it  is  con- 
uenient :  collected  out  of  the  heroicall  examples  of  Count  Mansfield 
....  Printed  at  London  by  B.  A.  for  Ttiomas  Archer  .  .  .  1625.   4to. 

A. — I  in  fours,  the  last  two  leaves  blank. 

This  is  no  more  than  Rich's  "Alarm  to  England,"  1578,  republished  by  Mark- 
ham,  with  new  preliminar)-  matter,  and  four  and  a  half  pages  of  verse,  all  mention 
of  the  original  writer  being  suppressed. 

MARKHAM,  Gervase.  The  Art  of  Archerie.  Shewing  how  it  is 
most  necessary  in  these  times  for  this  Kingdome,  both  in  Peace  and 
War,  and  how  it  may  be  done  without  charge  to  the  Country,  trouble 
to  the  People,  or  any  hinderance  to  necessary  Occasions.  Also,  of  the 
Discipline,  the  Postures,  and  whatsoever  else  is  necessarie  for  the  at- 
tayning  to  the  Art.  London,  Printed  by  B.  A.  and  T.  F.  for  Ben : 
Fisher,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  at  the  Signe  of  the  Talbot  without 
Aldersgatc.    1633.    8vo.    R, 

A,  4  leaves,  including  a  frontispiece  representing  an  archer  ;  A — M  4  in  eights. 

From  Heber's  collection. 

A  Way  to  get  Wealth  :  Containing  sixe  Principall  Vocations, 

or  Callings,  in  which  every  good  Husband,  or  Housewife  may  lawfully 
imploy  themselves.  .  .  .  The  first  five  bookes  gathered  by  G.  M [ark- 
ham].  The  last  by  Master  W.[illiam]  L.[awson]  for  the  benefit  of  great 
Brittain.  The  seventh  time  corrected,  and  augmented  by  the  Author. 
London.   Printed  by  B.  A\lsop\  for  lohn  Harison  .  .  .  1648.    4to. 

Hungers  Prevention  :   Or,  The  whole  Art   of  Fowling  By 

Water  and  Land.  Containing  all  the  Secrets  belonging  to  that  Art, 
and  brought  into  a  true  Forme  or  Method,  by  which  the  most  Ignorant 
may  know  how  to  take  any  kind  of  Fowle,  either  by  Land  or  Water. 
Also,  exceeding  necessary  and  profitable  for  all  such  as  travell  by  Sea, 
and  come  into  uninhabited  places  :  Especially,  all  those  that  have  any 
thing  to  doe  with  New  Plantations.  By  Gervase  Markham.  London, 
Printed  for  Francis  Grove,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Martha  Harrison 
....   1655.    8vo.    Frontispiece  and  other  woodcuts. 

A— T  in  eights,  last  leaf  blank.     Dedicated  to  Sir  Edwin  Sandys. 

The  Young  Sportman's  [jjV]  Instructor  in  Angling,  Fowling, 


Hawking,  Ordering  Singing  Birds,  Hawks,  Poultry,  Coneys,  Hares 
and  Dogs,  and  how  to  Cure  them.  By  G.  M.  Sold  at  the  Gold  Ring 
in  Little  Britain.    Price  6d.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

A — I  in  eights,  including  the  frontispiece. 

A  very  diminutive  volume,  measuring  about  3  in.  x  2  in.  It  is  the  only  copy 
known,  and  has  belonged  to  Mr.  Heber  and  Mr.  Corser. 

The  Famous  Whore,  or  Noble  Curtizan,  by  Gervase  or  Jervis 


MARLBOROUGH— MARLOWE.  909 

Markham,    1609.     Edited    by  Frederic    Ouvry.     London:    Privately 

Printed.     1868.    4to. 

Presented  by  Mr.  Ouvry. 

MARLBOROUGH  GEMS.  Gemmarum  Antiquarum  Delectus  ; 
ex  praestantioribus  desumptus,  quae  in  Dactyliothecis  Ducis  Marlbu- 
riensis  conservantur.    \^S.  I.  aiit  «.]    2  vols.    Folio.    R.  M. 

102  plates,  including  the  frontispieces. 

The  original  edition,  of  which  a  limited  number  was  printed  for  presents  only. 
Many  copies  of  the  book  have  been  put  in  circulation  of  late  years,  with  very  in- 
ferior impressions  of  the  plates. 

MARLOWE,  Christopher.  The  troublesome  raigne  and  la- 
mentable death  of  Edward  the  second.  King  of  England  :  with  the 
tragicall  fall  of  proud  Mortimer.  And  also  the  life  and  death  of  Peirs 
Gaueston,  the  great  Earle  of  Cornewall,  and  mighty  fauorite  of  King 
Edward  the  second,  as  it  was  publiquely  acted  by  the  right  honorable 
the  Earle  of  Pembrooke  his  seruants.  Written  by  Christopher  Marlow 
Gent.  Printed  at  London  for  Roger  Barnes,  and  are  to  be  sould  at  his 
Shop  in  Chaunccrie  Lane  oiter  against  the  Rolles.     161 2.    4to. 

A — K  2  in  fours. 

This  is  the  third  known  impression  of  the  play.  It  was  originally  licensed  in 
1593,  and  printed  in  1594.  A  copy  of  that  edition,  unknown  to  all  Marlowe's 
editors  and  to  all  bibliographers,  was  discovered  in  1876  in  the  Landerbibliothek 
at  Cassel.  The  title  of  this  new  discovery  is  :  "  The  troublesome/  raigne  and  lament- 
able death  of/  Edward  the  second,  King  of  England  :  with  the  Tragicall  fall  of  proud 
Mortimer/  As  it  was  svndrie  times  publiquely  acted/  in  the  honourable  citie  of 
London,  by  the  right  honourable  the  Earl  of  Pem/brooke  his  servants./  written  by 
Chri.  Marlow  Gent./  Itnprinted  at  London  for  William  lonesj  dwelling  neere  Hol- 
boume  conduit,  at  the!  signe  of  the  Giinne.  1594./"  8vo.  92  leaves,  including  the 
title.  A  second  edition  was  printed  in  1598,  and  this  was  the  earliest  known  to  Mr. 
Dyce.     Lowndes  refers  to  an  edition  of  1604,  but  it  is  doubtful  if  it  exists. 

The  Troublesome  Raigne  and  Lamentable  death  of  Edward 

the  second,  King  of  England  : London,  Printed  for  Henry 

Bell,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Slwp,  at  the  Lame-Hospitall  Gate,  neere 
Smithfield,  1622.    4to. 

A^K  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Hero   and    Leander :   Begun  by   Christopher   Marloe,   and 

finished  by  George  Chapman.  Vt  Neetar,  Ingeniicm.  London,  Printed 
by  A.  M.  for  Richard  Hawkins  :  and  are  to  bee  sold  at  his  Shop  in 
Chancerie-Lane,  neere  Serieants  Lnne.    1629.    4to.     G.  M. 

A — M  in  fours. 

Hero   and  Leander :    Begun   by   Christopher   Marloe,  and 


finished  by  George  Chapman.    Vt  Nectar,  Ingenium.   London  :  Printed 


910  MARLOWE— MARMOL. 

by  N.  Okes  for  William  Leake,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Chancery- 
lane  neere  the  Roules.    1617.    4to.    G.  M. 

A — K  in  fours. 

MARLOWE,  Christopher.  The  Tragicall  Historic  of  the  Life 
and  Death  of  Doctor  Faustus.  With  new  Additions.  Written  by 
Ch.  Mar.  Printed  at  London  for  lohn  Wright,  and  are  to  be  sold  at 
his  shop 'without  Newgate.    163 1.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — H  3  in  fours.    With  a  woodcut  on  the  title. 

The  Famous  Tragedy  of  the  Rich  lew  of  Malta.    As  it  was 


Playd  before  the  King  and  Qveene,  in  His  Majesties  Theatre  at  White- 
Hall,  by  her  Majesties  Servants  at  the  Cock-pit.  Written  by  Chris- 
topher Mario.  London  ;  Printed  by  L  B.  for  Nicholas  Vavasour,  and 
are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  the  Inner-Temple,  neere  the  Church. 
1633.    4to. 

A— K  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Edited  by  Thomas  Haywood.    No  earlier  edition  is  known. 

MARMION,  Shackerley.  A  Morall  Poem,  Intituled  the  Legend 

of  Cvpid  and  Psyche.    Or  Cvpid  and  his  Mistris.    As  it  was  lately 

presented  to  the  Prince  Elector.     Written  by  Shackerley  Marmion, 

Gent. 

Lucrece  my  booke,  'fore  Brutus  did  rcfraine, 

But  Brutus  gone,  she  tooke  it  up  againe. 

London  ;  Printed  by  N.  and  I.  Okes,  and  arc  to  be  sold  by  H.  Shcppard, 
at  his  shop  in  Chancery  lane  neere  Serjants  June,  at  the  Bible.  1637.   4to. 

A — M  i  in  fours,  including  the  engraved  title. 

In  a  copy  of  this  book  sold  in  18 17  the  date  on  the  engraved  title  (the  printed 
one  being  deficient)  was  altered  with  a  pen  to  1638,  a  circumstance  which  led  to 
the  erroneous  supposition  that  there  were  two  quarto  editions.  In  the  reprint  of 
this  poem  by  Singer  some  passages  are  omitted.  The  engraved  title  runs  :  "  Cvpid 
and  Psiche  or  an  Epick  Poem  of  Cupid  and  his  Mistress.  As  it  was  lately  presented 
to  the  Prince  Elector.  Written  by  Shakerly  Marmion.  Principibtts  placidssc  Viris 
non  Vltima  laus  est.    London.    Printed  by  lohn  Okes  for  H :  Sheppard  idyj ." 

The  Antiquary.    A  Comedy,  Acted  by  Her  Majesties  Ser- 


vants at  the  Cock-Pit.  Written  by  Shackerley  Mermion,  Gent.  London, 
Printed  by  F.  K.for  I.  W.  and  F.  E.  and  are  to  be  sold  at  tlie  Crane,  in 
S.  Pauls  Church-yard.    1641.    4to. 

B — L  2  in  fours  and  the  title-page.     First  edition. 

MARMOL  CARAVAIAL,  LUYS  del.  Primera  parte  de  la  de- 
scripcion  general  de  Affrica,  con  todos  los  successes  de  guerras  que  a 
auido  entre  los  infieles,  y  el  pueblo  Christiano,  y  entre  ellos  mesmos 


AIAKMOL  — MARSH.  911 

desde  que  Mahoma  inueto  su  secta;  hasta  el  ano  del  senor  mil  y  quinien- 

tos  y  setenta  y  vno En  Granada  en  casa  de  Rene  Rabiit.   Am 

de.  iSTi-    2  vols.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Vol.  i.  Title  and  preliminaries,  7  leaves  ;  folios  1-294  ;  table,  l6  leaves.  Vol.  ii. 
folios  1-308,  including  title  ;  table  and  colophon,  8  leaves. 

MARMOL  CARAVAIAL,  LUYS  del.  Segunda  parte  y  libro 
septimo  de  la  descripcion  general  de  Africa,  donde  se  contiene  las 
Prouincias  de  Numidia,  Libia,  la  tierra  de  los  Negros,  la  baxa  y  alta 

Etiopia,  y  Egipto,  co  todas  las  cosas  memorables  della Ini- 

pressa  en  la  Civdad  de  Malaga  a  casta  del  Autor  en  la  eniprenta  de  luan 
Rene.    1599.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Title  and  permission  to  print,  2  leaves  ;  folios  i-cxvii. 

Historia  del  Rebelion  y  castigo  de  los  Moriscos  del  Reyno 

de  Granada Imprcssa  en  la  ciiidad  de  Malaga  par  luan  Rene  a 

casta  del  aiictor.    A  no  de  mil y  seys  cienios.    Folio. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  folios  1-245  >  table,  4  leaves. 

MAROT,  Clement.  Les  Oeuures  de  Clement  Marot  Valet  de 
Chambre  du  Roy.  Desquelles  le  contenu  sensuit  L'adolescence  Clemen- 
tine, La  suite  de  I'Adosence,  [jzV]  On  les  uend  a  Lyo7t  dies  Fran- 

qoys  Iiiste.    [Colophon.]    Iviprime  a  lyon par lehan  Barbou.    1539.    8vo. 
Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Folios  1-286  and  a  leaf  with  the  printer's  name. 

MARRIAGE  PROMOTED.  \i\  a  Discourse  Of  its  Ancient  and 

Modern  Practice,  Both  under  Heathen  and  Christian  Common-Wealths. 

.  .  .  By  a  Person  of  Quality.   London:  Printed  for  Ric/iard  Baldwin. 

.  .  .  1690.    4to. 

A — I  in  fours,  including  a  half-title. 

MARRIED  MENS  FEAST,  The,  or.  The  Banquet  at  Barnet. 
Being  an  Invitation  to  all  those  married  persons  who  are  Master  over 
their  Wives  to  a  great  dinner  provided  at  Barnet  on  Michaelmas-day 
next.  Together  with  the  Articles  to  be  enquired  on  of  all  those  that 
are  to  be  admitted  to  the  Feast,  with  the  several  dishes  and  dainties 

provided  for  them London,  Printed  by  Peter  Lillicrap  for 

Jolm  Clark  at  the  Harp  and  Bible  in  West-Sniith-Field.    i6ji.    4to. 
Four  leaves.    From  Heber's  library. 

MARSH,  A.  The  ten  pleasures  of  marriage,  relating  all  the 
delights  and  contentments  that  are  mask'd  under  the  bands  of  matri- 


912  MARSH— MARSTON. 

mony.     Written  by  A.  Marsh,  Typogr.    London  printed  in  tfie  year, 
1682.    Sm.  8vo.    Plates. 

Engraved  title,  i  leaf;  letterpress  title,  i  leaf;  pp.  1-218.    Ten  plates. 

MARSH,  A.  The  confession  of  the  new  married  couple,  being  the 
second  part  of  the  ten  pleasures  of  marriage.  Relating  the  further 
delights  and  contentments  that  ly  mask'd  under  the  bands  of  wedlock. 
Written  by  A.  Marsh.  Typogr.  Loudon,  printed  in  the  year  1683. 
Sm.  8vo.    Plates. 

Engraved  title,  i  leaf;  letterpress  title,  1  leaf;  "To  the  reader,"  i  leaf;  pp.  7-214. 
Ten  plates.  One  leaf  is  supplied  in  facsimile  from  the  copy  in  the  Bodleian 
library. 

With  the  exception  of  the  entry  in  the  Bodleian  catalogue,  these  two  books  are 
believed  to  be  entirely  undescribed,  and  the  author  to  be  altogether  unknown. 
Though  the  titles  set  out  very  clearly  that  they  are  printed  in  London,  there  is  every 
reason  to  believe  that  they  were  really  printed  in  Holland,  both  from  the  appearance 
of  the  type  and  the  plates.  The  former  is  unquestionably  of  foreign  manufacture, 
and  the  latter  are  much  better  engraved  than  would  be  the  case  if  they  were  of 
English  execution.  The  costumes  of  the  figures  are  entirely  Dutch,  while  the  style 
of  the  interiors  and  exteriors  of  the  houses  are  such  as  one  may  see  even  yet  in 
Amsterdam.  That  two  books  so  likely  to  become  popular  should  have  disappeared 
from  circulation  is  most  curious  and  difficult  to  be  accounted  for.  They  present  a 
most  graphic  and  entertaining  picture  of  English  middle-class  life  in  the  seven- 
teenth century,  and  are  written  with  considerable  humour  and  spirit.  It  might  be 
supposed  that  they  were  translations  or  adaptations  of  the  French  book  entitled 
"  Les  quinze  joyes  de  mariage,"  but  such  is  certainly  not  the  case,  nor  do  they 
appear  to  be  drawn  from  any  Dutch  original. 

MARSHALL,  George.  A  compendious  treatise  in  metre  de- 
claring the  firste  originall  of  Sacrifice,  and  of  the  buylding  of  Aultares 
and  Churches,  and  of  the  firste  receauinge  of  the  Christen  fayth  here 
in  Englande  by  G.  M.  lacob.  4.  Drawe  nyghe  to  God,  and  he  ivil 
drawe  nighe  to  yon.  Anno  Domini.  1.5.5.4.  I^-  Decembris.  [Colo- 
phon.] Excusum  Londini  in  yEdibus  lohannis  Cawodi  TypograpJii 
RegicB  Maiestatis.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — C  in  fours. 

A  copy  is  in  Lambeth  library.  The  present  was  purchased  by  Mr.  Corser,  at 
Mr.  Bright's  sale,  in  1845,  and  is  said  by  Lowndes  to  have  been  acquired  by  Mr. 
Bright  at  a  sale  at  Evans's,  in  March,  1841.  No  others  are  at  present  known. 
Dedicated  to  George  Wharton,  Esq. 

MARSTON,  John.  The  Scovrge  ofVillanie.  Three  Bookes  of 
Satyres.  Persevs.  Nee  scompros  nietuentia  carniina,  nee  this.  At  Lon- 
don, Printed  by  I.  R.  and  are  to  be  sold  by  John  Buzbie,  in  Paules 
Church-yard,  at  the  signe  of  the  Crane.    1598.    Sm.  sqr.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  B— I  4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 
First  edition.    The  word  "  scompros  "  in  the  quotation  on  the  title  is  evidently  a 
misprint  for  "  scombros."     From  the  collections  of  Sir  W.  Holland  and  Mr.  Corser. 


MARSTON. 


913 


MARSTON,  John.  Antonios  Reuenge.  The  second  part.  As  it 
hath  beene  sundry  times  acted,  by  the  children  of  Paules.  Written  by 
I.  M.  Londott  Printed  for  Thomas  Fisher,  and  are  to  be  soulde  in  Saint 
Djinstans  Chiirch-yarde.    1602.    4to.    G.  M. 

A — K  in  fours.    First  edition.    From  Mr.  Holgate's  collection. 

The   Malcontent.     By   lohn   Marston.      1604.     Printed  at 


London  by  V.  S.  for  William  Aspley,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in 
Paules  Church-yard.    4to. 

A — H  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  by  the  author  to  Benjamin  Jonson.     The  first  edition,  without  the 
additions  by  John  Webster. 

From  the  collection  of  Mr.  Arthur  Dalrj'mple. 

The    Malcontent.      Augmented    by    Marston.     With    the 


Additions  played  by  the  Kings  Maiesties  servants.  Written  by 
Ihon  Webster.  1604.  At  London  Printed  by  V.  S.  for  William 
Aspley,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  P aides  Church-yard. 
4to.    G.  M. 

A — I  in  fours. 

The  dedication  to  Ben  Jonson,  which  is  retained  in  this  edition,  occurs  on  the 
back  of  the  title  in  the  following  terms :  "  Beniamini  lonsonio  Poetae  Elegantissimo 
Gravissimo  Amico  svo  Candido  et  Cordato,  lohannes  Marston  Mvsarvm  Alvmnvs 
Asperam  banc  svam  Thaliam  D.D." 

Parisitaster,  or  The  Fawne,  As  it  hath  bene   divers  times 


presented  at  the  blacke  Friars,  by  the  Children  of  the  Queenes 
Maiesties  Reuels.  Written  By  lohn  Marston.  At  London  Printed  by 
T.P.for  W.  C.    1606.    4to.     The  edges  uncut.    G.  M. 

A — I  in  fours. 

First  edition.  The  only  introductory  matter  is  an  address  by  the  author  "To  my 
equall  Reader,"  in  which  he  refers  to  certain  competitors  for  the  public  favour  in 
the  following  terms  :  "As  for  the  factious  malice,  and  studied  detractions  of  some 
few  that  tread  in  the  same  path  with  me,  let  all  know,  I  most  easily  neglect  them, 
and  (carelesly  slumbring  in  their  vitious  endeuours)  smile  hartily  at  their  selfe- 
hurting  basenesse." 

Parasitaster,  or  the  Fawne,  As  it  hath  been  divers  times 


presented  at  the  blacke  Friars,  by  the  Children  of  the  Queenes  Ma- 
iesties Reuels,  and  since  at  Powles.  Written  by  lohn  Marston.  And 
now  corrected  of  many  faults,  which  by  reason  of  the  Authors  absence, 
were  let  slip  in  the  first  edition.  At  London  Printed  by  T.  P.  for 
W.  C.     1606.    4to. 

A — I  in  fours. 

Following  the  title  is  the  preface  "  To  my  equall  Reader," 

5   O 


914  MARSTON— MARTI ALIS. 

MARSTON,  John.    What  yov  will.    By  lohn  Marston.    Imprinted 
at  London  by  G.  Eld,  for  Thomas  TJiorppe.    1607.    4to.    G.  M. 
A — H  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  Insatiate  Countesse.     A  Tragedie  :    Acted  at  White- 

Frj'ers.  Written  by  lohn  Marston.  London,  Printed  by  I.  N.  for 
Hngli  Ferric,  and  are  to  be  sonld  at  his  shop,  at  the  signe  of  the  Harrow 
in  Brittaines-burse.    163 1.    4to. 

A— K  i  in  fours.     Mr.  JoUey's  copy. 

The  Workes  of  Mr.  lohn  Marston,  Being  Tragedies  and  Co- 
medies, Collected  into  one  Volume.  London,  Printed  for  William 
Sheairs,  at  the  Harroive  in  Britaines  Bnrssc.     1633.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  dedication,  3  leaves;  B— Dd  6  in  eights,  last  leaf  blank. 

Dedicated  by  the  publisher  "To  the  Right  Honovrable,  the  Lady  Elizabeth 
Carie,  Viscountesse  Fawkland."  The  copy  in  the  British  Museum  has  no  dedica- 
tion, but  it  has  a  second  title,  on  which  the  names  of  the  plays  are  given. 

MARTENS,  Friderich.  Spitzbergische  oder  Groenlandische 
Reise  Beschreibung  gethan  im  Jahr  1671.  Aus  eigner  Erfahrunge 
beschrieben,  die  dazu  erforderte  Figuren  nach  dem  Leben  selbst 
abgerissen,  (so  hierbey  in  Kupffer  zu  sehen)  und  jetzo  durch  den 
Druck  mitgetheilet.    Hamburg.    1675.    4to.    Plates. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves;  pp.  1-132  ;  register  and  errata,  2  leaves. 
The  plates  are  lettered  A — Q. 

MARTHA  E  MAGDALENA.  In  comeza  la  miraculosa  legeda 
de  le  dilette  spose  e  care  hospite  de  xpo  Martha  e  Magdalena.  [Colo- 
phon.]   Impressnj,  Brixie.  p.  Jacobum  britanicu.    1490.    4to.    G.  M. 

a — fin  eights. 

The  earliest  edition  of  this  book  known  to  Brunei  was  that  of  Turin,  1 508,  which 
he  calls  "  Edition  peu  connue."  Dr.  Graesse  quotes  the  title  of  an  edition  printed 
at  Parma  in  1494 ;  but  as  he  gives  no  particulars  of  it,  he  had  probably  merely 
found  the  title  in  a  catalogue.  This  edition  of  1490  appears  to  be  quite  undescribed 
hitherto. 

MARTIALIS,  Marcus  Valerius.  [Epigrammatum  libri  xv.] 
\Sine  ulld  notd?[    4to.    BR.  ^L 

One  hundred  and  seventy-eight  leaves,  with  thirty-two  lines  to  the  page. 
Attributed  by  Hain,  No.  10805,  to  the  press  of  G.  Lauer  at  Rome. 

Martialis.    [Colophon.]     Venetiis  in  aedibvs  ALU,  mense  De- 

cembri.    M.  DI.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

On  the  title  is  inscribed  "  Bilibaldo  Pirkamer  Andreas  Coneriis.  D.D." 

Epigrammata,  cum  notis  Farnabii  et  variorum  ....  Liigd. 

Bat.    1670.    8vo. 


MARTI  A  LIS— MARTIN.  915 

MARTIALIS,  Marcus  Valerius.  Epigrammata,  cum  Para- 
phrasi  et  notis  variorum  selectissimis  ad  usum  Ser.  Delphini  .... 
Amst.    1 70 1.    8vo.    Y.  M. 

Ex  otio  Negotium.    Or,  Martiall  his  Epigrams  Translated. 

With  Sundry  Poems  and  Fancies.  By  R.  Fletcher  ....  London, 
Printed  by  T.  Mabb,for  William  Shears,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  Bible 
in  Bedford  street  in  Covent-garden,  1656.    Sm.  8vo.    Portrait. 

Title,  contents,  and  preface,  4  leaves  ;  "  Momus  Elencticus,"  4leaves,  marked*; 
B — R  in  eights. 

Selected  Epigrams  of  Martial.     Englished  By  Thomas  May 

Esquire  ....  London,  Printed  for  Thomas  IValkley  at  Brittaines 
Burse,  1629.    Sm.  sqr.  8vo. 

A  3 — G  6  in  eights,  the  two  first  and  two  last  leaves  blank. 

Dedicated  to  Henry,  Earl  of  Holland,  to  whom,  as  well  as  to  the  reader.  May 
apologizes  on  various  grounds  for  having  printed  the  work.  He  concludes  his 
address  to  the  reader  by  saying:  "  Some  of  them  [the  epigrams]  have  lyen  many 
yeares  by  me,  and  were  not  intended  for  the  Presse,  and  many  of  them  in  loose 
Papers  I  have  lost,  and  perchance  thou  wilt  say  (and  I  am  of  that  opinion)  it  had 
beene  no  great  matter  if  they  had  beene  all  lost." 

MARTIN,  Gregory.    A  Discoverie  of  the  manifold  Corrvptions 

of  the  Holy  Scriptvres  by  the  Heretikes  of  our  dales,  specially  the 

English  Sectaries,  and  of  their  foule  dealing  herein,  by  partial  &  false 

translations  to  the  aduantage  of  their  heresies,  in  their  English  Bibles 

vsed  and  authorised  since  the  time  of  Schisme.     By  Gregory  Martin 

one  of  the  readers  of  Diuinitie  in  the  English  College  of  Rhemes. 

[Quotation  from  2  Cor.  ii.]    Printed  at  Rhemes,  By  lohn  Fogiiy.    1582. 

Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  14  leaves  ;  A — X  4  in  eights. 

MARTIN,  Manuel  Josef.  Historia  verdadera  de  la  perdida  y 
restauracion  de  Espana  por  Don  Pelayo,  y  Don  Garcia  Ximenez  de 
Aragon.    En  Cordoba.    \s.  <?.]    4to. 

Historia  verdadera,  y  sagrada  de  la  gloria  de  Bethulia  Judith 


contra  Holofernes.    Eji  Cordoba.    {_s.  «.]    4to. 

Historia  sagrada  de  la  sacrosanta  Pasion  de  Jesu-Christo. 


Cordoba.    \_s.  «.]    4to. 


Historia  verdadera  de  la  aparicion  de  nuestra  seiiora  de 

Monserrate.    En  Cordoba,    {s.  a.]    4to. 

Historia  sagrada  de  la  creacion  del  mundo  y  formacion  del 


hombre.    Cordoba.    [_s.  a7\    4to. 


9i6  MARTIN. 

MARTIN  MAR-PRELATE.  Oh  read  ouer  D.  John  Bridges, 
for  it  is  a  worthy  worke  :  Or  an  epitome  of  the  fyrste  Booke,  of  that 
right  worshipfull  volume,  written  against  the  Puritanes,  in  the  defence 
of  the  noble  cleargie,  by  as  worshipfull  a  prieste,  John  Bridges,  Pres- 
byter, Priest  or  elder,  doctor  of  Diuillitie,  and  Deane  of  Sarum.  .  .  . 
Compiled  for  the  behoofe  and  ouerthrow  of  the  Parsons,  Fyckers,  and 
Currats,  that  have  lernt  their  Catechismes,  and  are  past  grace  :  By  the 
reuerend  and  worthie  Martin  Marprelate  gentleman,  and  dedicated  to 
the  Confocationhouse.  The  Epitome  is  not  yet  published,  but  it  shall 
be  when  the  Bishops  are  at  conuenient  leysure  to  view  the  same.  .  .  . 
Printed  oversea,  in  Europe,  within  two  furlongs  of  a  Bounsing  Priest,  at 
the  cost  and  charges  of  M.  Marprelate,  gentleman.    [1588.]    4to.    Black 

letter. 

A — G  in  fours. 

Oh  read  ouer  D.  John  Bridges  ....  Compiled  for  the  be- 


hoofe and  ouerthrow  of  the  vnpreaching  Parsons,  Fyckers,  and  Currats, 
.  .  .  dedicated  by  a  second  Epistle  to  the  Terrible  Priests.  In  this 
Epitome,  the  foresaide  Pickers,  &c.  are  very  insufficiently  furnished, 
with  notable  inabilitie  of  most  vincible  reasons,  to  answere  the  cauill 
of  the  puritanes  ....  Printed  on  the  otJier  hand  of  some  of  the  Priests. 
[1588.]    4to.     Black  letter. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — G  2  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank 

This  is  the  "Epitome"  promised  in  the  preceding  tract.  There  is  a  satirical 
list  of  errata  on  the  verso  of  G  i.     From  Mr.  Maskell's  collection. 

Hay  any  worke  for  Cooper :  Or  a  briefe  Pistle  directed  by 


waye  of  an  hublication  to  the  reverende  Byshopps,  counselling  them, 
if  they  will  needs  be  barrelled  vp,  for  feare  of  smelling  in  the  nostrels 
of  her  Maiestie  &  the  State,  that  they  would  vse  the  aduise  of  re- 
uerend Martin,  for  the  prouidingof  their  Cooper.  Because  the  reuerend 
T.  C.  (by  which  misticall  letters,  is  vnderstood,  eyther  the  bounsing 
Parson  of  Eastmeane,  or  Tom  Coakes  his  Chaplaine)  to  bee  an  vn- 
skilfuU  and  a  deceytfull  tubtrimmer.  .  .  .  Penned  and  compiled  by 
Martin  the  Metropolitane.  Printed  in  Europe,  not  farre  from  some  of 
the  Bounsing  Pricstcs.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A^H  i  in  fours.     From  Mr.  Maskell's  collection. 

This,  in  common  with  the  greater  part,  if  not  the  whole,  of  the  Martin  Mar- 
prelate  series,  was  probably  printed  in  England,  the  press  being  shifted  from  place 
to  place,  as  circumstances  required.    See  Herbert's  Ames,  p.  1689. 

The   Protestatyon  of  Martin  Marprelat.    Wherin   notwith- 


standing the  surprising  of  the  printer,  he  maketh  it  known  vnto  the 
world  that  he  feareth,  neither  proud  priest,  Antichristian  pope,  tiranous 
prellate,  nor  godlesse  catercap :  but  defiethe  all  the  race  of  them  by 


MARTIN.  917 

these  presents  and  offereth  conditionally,  as  is  farthere  expressed 
hearein,  by  open  disputation  to  apear  in  the  defence  of  his  cause 
against  them  and  theirs.  Which  chaleng  if  they  dare  not  maintaine 
aginst  him  :  then  doth  he  alsoe  publishe  that  he  never  meaneth  by 
the  assi[s]taunce  of  god  to  leaue  the  assayling  of  them  and  theire  gene- 
ration, vntill  they  be  vterly  extinguised  out  of  our  church.  Published 
by  the  worthie  gentleman  D.  martin  marprelat  D.  in  all  the  faculties 
primat  and  metropolitan.  {_No  place,  printer  s  fiame,  or  date.']  Sm.  8vo. 
BR.  M. 

A — D  in  fours. 

From  Mr.  Maskell's  collection.  The  tract  concludes  with  a  table  of  errata,  in 
which  Dr.  Bullen,  Dean  of  Lichfield,  is  attacked  in  a  humorous  manner. 

MARTIN  MAR-PRELATE.  Theses  Martinianae :  That  is,  Cer- 
taine  demonstrative  Conclusions,  sette  downe  and  collected  (as  it  should 
seeme)  by  that  famous  and  renowmed  Clarke,  the  reuerend  Martin 
Marprelate  the  great :  seruing  as  a  manifest  and  sufficient  confutation  of 
al  that  euerthe  Colledge  of  Catercaps  with  their  whole  band  of  Clergie- 
priests,  haue,  or  canbring  for  the  defence  of  their  ambitious  and  Anti- 
christian  Prelacie.  Pvblished  and  set  foorth  as  an  after-birth  of  the 
noble  Gentleman  himselfe,  by  a  prety  stripling  of  his,  Martin  Ivnior,  and 
dedicated  by  him  to  his  good  neame  and  nuncka,  Maister  lohn  Kan- 
kerbury :  How  the  yongman  came  by  them,  the  Reader  shall  vnder- 
stande  sufficiently  in  the  Epilogue.  In  themeane  time,  whosoeuer  can 
bring  mee  acquainted  with  my  father.  He  bee  bound  hee  shall  not  loose 
his  labour.  Printed  by  the  assignes  of  Alartin  Iiinior,  without  any 
priuiledge  of  tlie  Cater-caps.    [1589.]    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

A — D  in  fours. 

The  lust  censure  and  reproofe  of  Martin  lunior.  Wherein  the 


rash  and  vndiscreete  headines  of  the  foolish  youth,  is  sharply  mette 
with,  and  the  boy  hath  his  lesson  taught  him,  I  warrant  you,  by  his 
reuerend  and  elder  brother,  Martin  Senior,  sonne  and  heire  vnto  the 
renowmed  Martin  Mar-prelate  the  Great.  Where  also,  least  the  springall 
shold  be  vtterly  discouraged  in  his  good  meaning,  you  shall  finde,  that 
hee  is  not  bereaued  of  his  due  commendations.  \^No  place  or  date.] 
Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

A — D  in  fours.     From  Mr.  Maskell's  collection. 

Pappe  with  an  hatchet.     Alias,  A  figge  for  my  God  sonne. 


Or  Cracke  me  this  nut.  Or  A  Countrie  cuffe,  that  is,  a  sound  boxe  of 
the  eare,  for  the  idiot  Martin  to  hold  his  peace,  seeing  the  patch  will 
take  no  warning.  Written  by  one  that  dares  call  a  dog,  a  dog,  and 
made  to  preuent  Martins  dog  dales.  Imprinted  by  lohn  Anoke,  and 
lohn  Astile,  for  the  Bayliue  of  Withernam,  cum  priuilegio  perennitatis, 


9i8 


MA  R  TIN. 


and  are  to  bee  sold  at  the  signe  of  the  crab  tree  cudgell  in  thwack- 
coate  lane.  A  sentence.  Martin  hangs  fit  for  my  mowing.  \_No  place 
or  date.']    4to.    BL.  M. 

A — E  3  in  fours. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  Father  and  the  two  Sonnes,  Huffe,  Ruffe,  and  Snuffe,  the 
three  tame  ruffians  of  the  Church,  which  take  pepper  in  the  nose,  because  they  can 
not  marre  Prelate's  grating."  "  To  take  pepper  in  the  nose  "  signified  to  pocket 
an  affront.     The  dedication  is  signed  :  "  Yours  at  an  houres  warning  Double  V." 

There  are  very  curious  allusions  in  this  tract.  On  B  3  recto  the  author  says  : 
"  Now  you  put  me  in  niinde  of  the  matter,  there  is  a  booke  coming  out  of  a  hundred 
mcrrie  tales  "  and  on  C  3  recto  he  mentions  "  Stans  puer  ad  mensam,"  ^sop's 
"  Fables  "  the  lost  school-book  called  "  Pueriles,"  "  A.  B.  C",  "  the  Horne-booke," 
the  games  of  Irish  and  Primero,  tobacco,  besides  several  rare  proverbs.  At  sig.  D  i 
recto  the  author  says  :  "let  mee  stroake  my  beard  thrice  like  a  Germain,  before  I 
speak  a  wise  word."  At  sig.  D  2  verso,  there  is  a  singular  passage  :  "  Sed  hats  he, 
die  sodes  will  they  not  bee  discouraged  for  the  common  players  ?  Would  those 
Comedies  might  be  allowed  to  be  plaid  that  are  pend,  and  then  I  am  sure  he 
[Martin]  would  be  decyphered,  and  so  perhaps  discouraged."  A  little  further  on 
there  is  a  still  more  remarkable  paragraph  :  "  A  stage  plaier,  though  he  bee  but 
a  cobler  by  occupation,  yet  his  chance  may  bee  to  play  the  Kings  part."  On  sig. 
E  2  is  a  reference  to  "  Dr.  BuUen's  dogge  Spring." 

MARTIN  MAR-PRELATE.  Martins  Months  minde,  that  is, 
A  certaine  report,  and  true  description  of  the  Death,  and  Funeralls,  of 
olde  Martin  Marre-prelate,  the  great  makebate  of  England,  and  father 
of  the  Factious.  Contayning  the  cause  of  his  death,  the  manner  of  his 
buriall,  and  the  right  copies  both  of  his  Will,  and  of  such  Epitaphs,  as 
by  sundrie  his  dearest  friends,  and  other  of  his  well-willers,  were  framed 
for  him. 

Martin  the  Ape,  the  dronke,  and  the  madde, 
The  three  Martins  are,  whose  workes  we  haue  had. 
If  Martin  the  fourth  come,  after  Martins  so  euill, 
Nor  man,  nor  beast  comes,  but  Martin  the  deuill. 

1589.    4to. 

A — H  in  fours. 

Attributed  to  Thomas  Nash.  See  an  elaborate  account  of  this  tract  in  Herbert, 
pp.  1694-7,  and  in  Mr.  Maskell's  History  of  the  Martin  Marprelate  controversy, 
p.  186,  where  it  is  described  as  "  without  doubt,  the  cleverest  and  the  most  witty  of 
the  replies  to  Martin  Marprelate." 

MARTIN,  Richard.  A  Speach  delivered,  to  the  Kings  most 
Excellent  Maiestie  in  the  Name  of  the  Sheriffes  of  London  and  Mid- 
dlesex. By  Maister  Richard  Martin  of  the  Middle  Temple.  At  London 
Imprinted  for  Thomas  Tlwrppc,  and  are  to  be  sould  by  William  Asplcy. 

1603.    4to. 

A— B  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

MARTIN,  Thomas.     A  Traictise  declaryng  and  plainly  prouyng, 


MARTINEZ— MARTI  NIERE.  919 

that  the  pretended  marriage  of  Priestes,  and  professed  persones  is  no 
mariage,  but  altogether  vnlawful,  and  in  all  ages,  and  al  countreies  of 
Christendome,  bothe  forbidden,  and  also  punyshed.  Herewith  is  com- 
prised in  the  later  chapitres,  a  full  confutation  of  Doctour  Poynettes 
boke  entitled  a  defense  for  the  marriage  of  Priestes.  Excvsvm  Londijii 
in  cedibus  Roberti  Caly,  Typographi :  Mcnse  Maij.  Anno.  1554.  Cii 
priuilegio.    4to.    Black  letter.    R. 

A — Mm  in  fours,  besides  four  leaves  with  title,  dedication  to  the  Queen,  &c.,  also 
marked  A. 

MARTINEZ  DE  ESPINAR,  Alonso.  Arte  de  Ballesteria,  y 
Monteria,  escrita  con  metodo,  para  escvsar  la  fatiga,  que  ocasiona  la 
ignorancia  :  dividida  en  tres  libros.  En  el  primero  se  declaran  las  di- 
finiciones  de  la  Ballesteria,  Monteria,  Chucheria,  y  Cetreria,  Se  trata 
de  los  Elementos,  y  de  todos  los  instrumentos  necessaries  para  el  vso 
deste  Arte.  En  el  segundo,  se  dize  las  naturalezas  de  los  Animales. 
Como  se  ha  de  valer  el  Ballestero  de  los  vientos.  El  modo  de  echar 
el  lago  a  las  Reses  :  y  como  se  han  de  concertar  con  el  Sabueso,  y  sin 
el.  En  el  tercero,  se  declaran  las  calidades  de  las  Aues,  y  el  modo  de 
cagarlas.  Co  dos  Capitulos  curiosos  al  fin.  El  vno,  de  la  caza  del 
Perro  de  Muestra.  Y  el  otro,  del  Cabestrillar  con  el  Buey.  Hallara  el 
curioso  al  fin  deste  libro  vn  Indice,  que  le  declarara  las  cosas  notables, 

y  vocablos  estraordinarios  de  la  caga En  Madrid,  En  la  Ivi- 

prcnta  Real.    Ailo  de  1644.    4to.    BL.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  i6  leaves,  besides  an  engraved  title  and  two  portraits  ; 
plates  at  folios  106,  157,  172,  241,  248. 
From  the  collection  of  Baron  Pichon. 

MARTINEZ,  Nicolas.  Relacion  verdadera,  que  trata  de  dos 
batallas  crueles  que  han  sucedido  al  Preste  luan  de  las  Indias,  con  el 
Gran  Sufi,  y  de  los  ardides  de  guerra,  que  vuo  de  la  parte  de  los 
Christianos  para  ganar  la  Victoria  ;  porq  traya  el  Gran  Sufi  grandis- 
sima  cantidad  de  gete,  mas  que  el  Preste  lua,  como  se  yra  declarado 
en  el  discurso  de  la  obra.  Fue  trayda  esta  nueua  de  Maruecos  a  la 
ciudad  de  Seuilla,  por  Fray  lua  Bautista  Frayle  Trinitario.  Copuesta 
en  dos  curiosos  Romaces  por  Nicolas  Martinez  natural  de  Valdepenas. 
Ivipressa  con  licencia  en  Salamanca  en  casa  de  Antonia  Ramirez,  viiida, 
en  este  prescnte  ano  de  1607.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

Beneath  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  a  king  and  queen  on  a  throne  surrounded 
by  nine  suppliant  kings.  The  author  was  unknown  to  Antonio,  and  his  name 
does  not  appear  in  Seiior  Salvd's  catalogue. 

MARTINIERE,  Bruzen  de  la.  Voyage  des  Pais  Septentrionavx. 
Dans  lequel  se  void  les  moeurs,  maniere  de  vivre,  &  superstitions  des 
Norvvegiens,   Lappons,  Kiloppes,   Borandiens,  Syberiens,  Samojedes, 


920  MARTINUS— MARTYR. 

Zembliens,  &  Islandois,  cnrichi  dc  plusieurs  figures.    A  Paris,  Chez 
Louis  Vendosvie .  .  .  .  1671.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

Engraved  title,  printed  title,  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  A— M  in  eights. 
There  are  engravings  on  the  letterpress. 

MARTINUS  POLONUS.  La  Cronique  martiniane  de  tous  les 
papes  qui  furent  iamais  et  finist  iusques  au  pape  alexadre  derrenier 
decedc  mil  cinq  cens  et  trois/  et  auecques  ce  les  additios  de  plusieurs 
croniqueurs  Cestassauoir  de  messire  Verneron  chanoyne  de  lyege/  mon- 
seigiir  le  croniqueur  castel/  monseigneur  gaguin  general  des  mathurins 
&  plus's  autres  croniqueurs.  [Colophon.]  C  Cy  fine  la  derreniere 
partie  de  la  cronique  Martinienne  iviprimee  a  par  is  pour  Anthoyne 
verard  viarchant  libraire  dcviourant  a  paris  pres  lostcl  dieu  deuant  la 
rue  neufue  nosire  dame  a  lenscigne  saint  Jehan  Icudgelisiel  ou  au  palais 
au  premier  pillier  deuant  la  chappelle  ou  leu  chante  la  messe  de  inessei- 
gneurs  les presidens.    [1504.]    2  vols  in  I.    Folio.    Black  letter. 

"  Le  second  tome,  dit  I'abbd  Lebeuf,  n'est  qu'un  ramas  de  diffif rents  livres  manu- 
scrits,  concernant  rhistoire  de  France,  et  que  Verard  crut  devoir  imprimer  i  la  suite 
pour  grossir  son  volume.  Le  meme  critique,  dans  son  curieu.\  '  Mdmoire  sur  les 
chroniques  Martiniennes '  (Acad,  des  Inscript.,  torn,  xx.,  p.  224)  a  donnd  I'analyse 
des  pic-ces  qui  composent  cette  seconde  partie,  et  des  conjectures  tr&s  plausibles  sur 
les  difKrents  auteurs  auxquels  on  doit  les  attribuer." — Biographic  Universclle. 

MARTYN,  Joseph.  New  Epigrams,  and  a  Satyre.  Written  by 
Ids  :  Martyn,  a  wel-wisher  to  Study  ....  London,  Printed  by  G.  Eld, 
dwelling  in  Little-Britainc.    1621.    4to.    G.  M. 

A — D  in  fours. 

Licensed  in  1619,  but  no  earlier  edition  than  this  of  1621  has  been  discovered. 
Dedicated  to  Sir  Henry  Martyn,  Knight. 

MARTYR,  Peter.  De  orbe  nouo  Decades.  [Colophon.]  Cura 
iff  diligent ia  uiri  Celebris  Magistri  Antonii  Ncbrisscnsis  historici  regit 
fucriint  ha:  ires  protonotarii  Petri  martyris  decades  Impresses  in  contu- 
bernio  Arnaldi  Guillelmi  in  Illustri  oppido  carpetancs  pulcice  copluto 
quod  uulgariter  dicitur  Alcala  pfectu  est  nonis  Nouebris  An.  1516. 
Folio. 

The  words,  "  De  orbe  nouo  Decades,"  on  the  title  are  within  a  woodcut  border 
and  are  surmounted  by  the  following  inscription  and  latin  verses  : — 

loannes  rufifus  foroliuiensis  Archiepus  Cosenti 
n9  :  legat^  apo.  ad  lectore  de  orbe  nouo. 

Accipe  non  noti  prasclara  uolumina  mundi 

Oceani :  &  magnas  noscito  lector  opes. 
Plurima  debetur  typhis  tibi  gratia  :  gentes 

Ignotas  :  &  aues  qui  uehis  orbe  nouo. 
Magna  quoqj  autori  referenda  est  gratia  nostro  : 

Qui  facit  hffic  cunctis  regna  uidenda  locis. 


MARTYR.  921. 

Autor 
Siste  pedem  lector  :  breuibus  compacta  libellis 
Hasc  lege  :  principibus  uariis  decimoqj  leoni 
Pontifici  summo  inscripta.  hie  noua  multa  uidebis. 
Oceani  magnas  terras  :  uasta  jequora  :  linguas 
Hactenus  ignotas  :  atq,  aurea  sascula  nosces  : 
Et  gentes  nudas  expertes  seminis  atri  : 
Mortiferi  numnii  :  gemmisq,  auroqj  feracem 
Torrentem  zonam  :  parcat  ueueranda  uetustas. 

This  is  the  first  edition  of  Peter  Martyr's  three  decades  concerning  the  new 
found  world.  The  first  nine  books  of  the  first  decade  were  printed  at  Seville  in 
15 1 1,  and  the  reading  of  this  gave  so  much  pleasure  to  Pope  Leo  X.  that  he  re- 
quested the  author  to  continue  his  work.     See  Harrisse,  "  B'.bl.  Amer.,"  No.  88. 

MARTYR,  Peter.  Petri  Martyris  ab  Angleria  Mediolanen.  Ora- 
toris  clarissimi,  Fernandi  &  Helisabeth  Hispaniarum  quondam  regum  i 
consilijs,  de  rebus  Oceanicis  &  Orbe  nouo  decades  tres  :  quibusquicquid 
de  inuentis  nuper  terris  traditum,  nouarum  rerum  cupidum  lectorem 
retinere  possit,  copiose,  fideliter,  erudite(|,  docetur.  Eivsdem  praeterea 
Legationis  Babylonicae  libri  tres  :  vbi  praeter  oratorii  mvneris  pulcherri- 
mum  exemplum,  etiam  quicquid  in  uariarum  gentium  moribus  &  insti- 
tutis  insigniter  pr^clarum  uidit,  qu^fj,  terra  mariq^  acciderunt,  omnia 
lectu  mire  iucunda,  genere  dicendi  politissimo  traduntur.  Basileae, 
apud  loanncm  Bcbeiium.    LI. D. XXXIII.    Folio. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves  ;  a — o  in  si.\es  ;  p,  8  leaves. 

De  Orbe  Novo,  Petri  Martyris  Anglerii  Mediolanensis,  Pro- 

tonotarii,  &  Caroli  quinti  Senatoris  Decades  octo,  diligenti  temporum 
obseruatione,  et  vtilissimis  annotationibus  illustrate,  suoque  nitori 
restitutae.  Labore  &  industria  Ricliardi  Haklvyti  ....  Parisiis,  Apud 
Gul.  Avvray  ....  1587.    8vo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-605  !  index,  12  leaves. 

The  Decades  of  the  nevve  worlde  or  west  India,  Conteynyng 

the  nauigations  and  conquestes  of  the  Spanyardes,  with  the  particular 
description  of  the  moste  ryche  and  large  landes  and  Ilandes  lately 
founde  in  the  west  Ocean  perteynyng  to  the  inheritaunce  of  the  kinges 
of  Spaync.  In  the  which  the  diligent  reader  may  not  only  consyder 
what  commoditie  may  hereby  chaunce  to  the  hole  christian  world  in 
tyme  to  come,  but  also  learne  many  secreates  touchynge  the  lande, 
the  sea,  and  the  starres,  very  necessarie  to  be  knowen  to  al  such  as 
shal  attempte  any  nauigations,  or  otherwise  haue  delite  to  beholde  the 
strange  and  woonderfuU  woorkes  of  God  and  nature.  Wryttcn  in  the 
Latine  tounge  by  Peter  Martyr  of  Angleria,  and  translated  into  Eng- 
lysshe  by  Rycharde  Eden.  Londini.  In  adibiis  Guillieluii  Poivcll. 
Anno.  1555.    [Colophon.]    Iviprynted  at  London  in  Lumbard  streete  at 


922  MA  R  T  VR. 

the  signe  of  the  Cradle  by  Edwarde  Sutton.  Anno.  Dni.  M.D.L  V.  4to. 
Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Title,  dedication  to  King  Philip  and  Queen  Mary  (in  Latin)  by  Eden,  table,  &c., 
a— b  in  fours;  preface  by  Eden,  a— d  in  fours  ;  the  work  A-AAAAA  in  fours, 
with  the  exception  that  there  is  an  extra  leaf,  liii  ij,  and  that  the  last  signature  has 
six  leaves. 

The  extra  leaf  above-mentioned  contains  "  The  coppie  of  the  Duke  of  Moscouie 
and  Eniperour  of  Russia  his  letters  sent  to  Kinge  Edwarde  the  Syxte."  This  work 
embraces,  besides  the  account  of  the  West  Indies,  narratives  of  travels  in  Russia, 
China,  Africa,  &c.,  with  notices  of  the  products  of  various  regions.  In  his  dedica- 
tion to  Philip  and  Mar}-,  Eden  refers  to  the  splendid  solemnities  with  which  their 
entry  into  London  was  celebrated.     See  Herbert's  Ames,  738. 

MARTYR,  Peter.  The  History  of  Trauayle  in  the  West  and 
East  Indies,  and  other  countreys  lying  eyther  way,  towardes  the  fruit- 
full  and  ryche  Molluccaes.  As  Moscouia,  Tcrsia,  Arabia,  Syria,  ^gypte, 
Ethiopia,  Guinea,  China  in  Cathayo,  and  Giapan  :  With  a  discourse  of 
the  Northwest  passage  ....  Gathered  in  parte,  and  done  into  Englyshe 
by  Richardc  Eden.  Newly  set  in  order,  augmented,  and  finished  by 
Richarde  Willes.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Richarde  Iiigge.  1577.  Cunt 
Pritdlcgio.    4to.    Black  letter. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  A  and  B,  4  leaves  each  ;  C — Ooo  in 
eights. 

This  is  in  fact  a  new  edition  of  the  preceding  work.  It  is  dedicated,  by  R. 
Willes,  to  "  The  Lady  Brigit,  Countesse  of  Bedforde,  my  singuler  good  Lady  and 
Mystresse,"  in  an  epistle  of  ten  pages,  in  which  he  recounts  and  describes  Eden's 
labours  in  the  edition  of  1 555  and  his  own  amendment  of  them  in  this  republication. 
The  next  three  leaves  are  occupied  by  "  R.  Willes  Preface  vnto  the  Reader,"  in 
■which  he  again  describes  the  contents  of  the  work.  At  the  end  of  it  he  says, 
"  Many  of  his  Englyshe  woordes  cannot  be  excused  in  my  opinion  for  smellyng  to 
much  of  the  Latine." 

From  a  careful  comparison  of  this  edition  with  that  of  1555  it  would  appear, 
however,  that  Eden  himself  rearranged  the  work,  and  Willes  was.  merely  the  editor 
after  his  death,  which  does  not  seem  to  have  happened  till  1576.  The  long  and 
interesting  preface  addressed  to  the  reader  which  is  in  the  edition  of  1555,  is  here 
suppressed,  and  the  principal  additions  consist  of  "  The  Nauigation  and  voyages  of 

Lewes  Vertomannus Translated  out  of  Latine  into  Englyshe,  by  Richarde 

Eden.  In  the  year  of  our  Lord.  1576."  "The  Voyages  of  the  Spanyards  round 
about  the  worlde,"  translated  from  "  II  viaggio  fatti  dagli  Spagnivoli  atomo  a'l 
Mondo,"  and  "  An  Abridgement  of  P.  Martyr  his  5.  6.  7.  and  8.  Decades."  "  Lewes 
Vertomannus  "  is,  of  course,  L.  de  Varthema,  and  "  The  Voyages  of  the  Spanyards  " 
are  the  relations  of  Maximilianus  Transylvanus  and  Ant.  Pigafetta. 

De  Nouo  Orbe,  or  The  Historie  of  the  west  Indies,  Con- 

tayning  the  actcs  and  aducntures  of  the  Spanyardes,  which  haue 
conquered  and  peopled  those  Countries,  inriched  with  varietie  of  plea- 
sant relation  of  the  Manners,  Ceremonies,  Lawes,  Gouernments,  and 
Warres  of  the  Indians.  Comprised  in  eight  Decades.  Written  by 
Peter  Martyr  MiUanoiseof  Angleria,  Cheife  Secretary  to  the  Emperour 


A/A  R  T  YR.  923 

Charles  the  fift,  one  of  his  Priuic  Councell.  Whereof  three,  hauc  becne 
formerly  translated  into  Engh'sh,  by  R.  Eden,  whereunto  the  other 
flue,  are  newly  added  by  the  Industrie,  and  painefull  Trauaile  of 
M.  Lok  Gent.  In  the  Iiandcs  of  the  Lord  are  all  the  corners  of  tJie  earth. 
Psal.  95.    London  Printed  for  Tliomas  Adams.     1612.    4to.    BR.  M. 

A,  4  leaves,  the  first  bearing  only  the  sig.  A  ;  B — Ss  in  eights. 

Dedicated  by  Michael  Lok  to  .Sir  Julius  Cajsar,  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer. 
This  is  the  first  complete  edition  of  the  eight  decades  in  English. 

MARTYR,  Peter.  The  Historic  of  the  West-Indies,  Containing 
the  Acts  and  Adventures  of  the  Spaniards,  which  have  conquered  and 
peopled  those  Countries,  inriched  with  varietie  of  pleasant  relation  of 
the  iVIanners,  Ceremonies,  Lawes,  Governments,  and  Warres  of  the 
Indians.    Published    in   Latin   by   Mr.  Hakluyt,   and  translated  into 

English  by  M.  Lok.   Gent London,  Printed  for  Andrew  H ebb, 

and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  signe  of  the  Bell  in  Pauls  Church-yard.  [n.  d.] 
4to.    R.  M. 

Title,  and  B — Ss  in  eights. 

This  edition  is  in  all  respects  the  same  as  that  of  1612,  except  that  a  new  and 
differing  title  was  given  to  it,  and  the  dedication  to  Sir  Julius  C^sar  suppressed  in 
most  copies. 

Though  the  whole  work  is,  according  to  the  title,  "  translated  into  English  by 
M.  Lok,"  the  first  three  Decades  are  an  exact  reprint  of  R.  Eden's  translation. 

Libro  primo  della  historia  del'  Indie  Occidentals    [On  the 

verso  of  this  title :]  Summario  de  la  generale  historia  del'  Indie 
occidentali  cavato  da  libri  scritti  dal  Signor  Don  Pietro  Martyre  del 
Consiglio  delle  Indie  della  Maesta  de  I'lmperadore  et  da  molte 
altre  particular!  relationi.  Libro  secondo  delle  Indie  occidentali 
M  D  XXX  IIII.  Con  gratia  &  priuilegio.  [On  the  verso  of  this  title  :] 
Summario  de  la  naturale  et  general  historia  de  I'lndie  occidentali, 
composta  da  Gonzalo  ferdinando  del  Ouicdo,  altrimenti  di  valde,  natio 
de  la  terra  di  Madril :  habitatore  &  rettore  de  la  citta  di  santa  Maria 
antica  del  Darien,  in  terra  ferma  de  I'indie :  11  qual  fu  riueduto  &  cor- 
retto  per  ordine  de  la  iMaesta  del  Imperadore,  pel  suo  real  consiglio, 
de  le  dette  Indie.  &  tradotto  di  lingua  castigliana  in  Italiana.  Co  priui- 
legio de  la  Illustris.  Signoria  di  Vinegia  per  ani  xx.  [Colophon.]  Stani- 

pato  in  Vinegia,  7tel  7nesc  di  Dcccinbre,  Del.  I '^14 Libro  ultimo 

del  summario  delle  Indie  Occidentali  MDXXXIIII.  [On  A  ii :]  Libro 
ultimo  del  summario  de  le  cose  de  le  Indie  occidentali,  doue  si  narra 
di  tutto  quello  ch'e  stato  fatto  nel  trouar  la  prouincia  de  Peru,  ouer 
del  Cusco,  chiamata  hoggi  nuoua  Castiglia,  dalli  capitani  del  Im- 
peratore.  [Colophon.]  /«  Vinegia,  Del  mese  d'Ottobre.  MDXXXIIII. 
4to.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

Part  r.  A— V  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank.  Part  2.  A— O  in  fours  ;  table  and  a 
leaf  containing  the  colophon  and  a  description  of  the  two  maps,  together  2  leaves. 


924  MA  R  T  YR-  MA  R  Y. 

Part  3.  A— D  iii  in  fours.  At  the  end  of  part  i  is  a  woodcut  map  of"  Isola  Spag- 
nuola,"  and  between  parts  2  and  3  is  a  large  folded  map,  "  La  carta  uniuersale 
della  terra  ferma  &  Isole  delle  Indie  occidetali,  cioo  del  mondo  nuouo  fatta  per 
dichiaratione  delli  libri  delle  Indie,  cauata  da  due  carte  da  nauicare  fatte  in  Sibilia 
da  li  piloti  della  Maiesta  Cesarea."  Of  this  map  not  more  than  two  or  three 
original  copies  are  known.  That  in  the  copy  here  described  is  a  facsimile  by- 
Harris.  M.  Brunet  was  quite  unaware  of  the  existence  of  it,  and  mentions  only  the 
smaller  map  of  "  Isola  Spagnuola." 

The  first  part  appears  to  be  principally  taken  from  the  "  Decades  "  of  Peter 
Martyr.  The  second  from  the  work  of  Oviedo,  printed  at  Toledo  in  1526,  and  the 
third  is  a  translation  with  additions  of  the  anonymous  work,  "  La  conquista  del 
Peru,"  printed  at  Seville  in  1534,  and  consisting  of  eight  leaves.  It  has  been 
sometimes  erroneously  described  as  a  translation  of  Francisco  Xeres'  "  Verdadera 
relacion  de  la  conquista  del  Peru,"  also  printed  at  Seville  in  1534,  but  consisting  of 
eighteen  leaves. 

MARTYR,  Peter.     De   nvper   svb  D.  Carolo   repertis  Insulis, 
simulq,  incolarum  moribus,  R.  Petri  Martyris,  Enchiridion,  Dominae  Mar- 
garitae,  Diui  Max.  Css.  filise  dicatum.   Basilece,  M.D.XXI.  4to.  BL.  M. 
A — D  in  fours  ;  E,  6  leaves. 

MARTYROLOGY.  The  Martiloge  in  englysshe  after  the  vse  of 
the  chirche  of  saHsburj'/  &  as  it  is  redde  in  Syon/  with  addicyons. 
[Colophon.]  Thus  endcth  the  Martiloge  with  the  Addicyons.  Imprinted 
at  London  in  Fletestrete  at  the  sygne  of  the  sonnej  by  Wytikyn  de  worde. 
The  yere  of  our  lordc  god.  M.  CCCCC.xxvj.  the  xv.  daye  of  Febniaiy. 
4to.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

Title  over  a  large  woodcut  of  St.  Bridget,  i  leaf;  address  by  the  translator, 
Richard  Whitford,  to  the  readers,  i  leaf;  a — 2  in  fours  ;  f,  4  leaves  ;  ^,  4  leaves  ; 
aa — ii  in  fours,  and  kk,  6  leaves,  making  in  all  144  leaves,  not  154,  as  stated  by 
Lowndes.  The  printer's  device  is  on  the  last  page,  while  the  preceding  one  has 
merely  the  colophon  at  the  top,  the  rest  blank.  The  copy  described  by  Maitland, 
p.  188,  evidently  wants  the  first  and  second  leaves. 

MARVELL,  Andrew.  Miscellaneous  Poems.  By  Andrew  Mar- 
veil,  Esq  ;  Late  Member  of  the  Honourable  House  of  Commons. 
London,  Printed  for  Robert  Boulter,  at  the  Turks-Head  in  Cornhill. 
1 68 1.    Folio.    Portrait. 

Title  and  To  the  Reader,  2  leaves  ;  B— C,  2  leaves  each  ;  D— Q  in  fours  ;  R— S, 
I  leaf  each  ;  T  2  (no  Ti)— 4,  3  leaves  ;  U— X,  i  leaf  each. 

There  are  no  pp.  117-30.  In  the  preface  the  poet's  widow  certifies  to  the 
genuineness  of  all  the  pieces  here  printed. 

MARY,  Queen  of  England.  Copia  delle  lettere  del  Sereniss. 
Re  dTnghilterra,  &  del  Reuerendiss.  Card.  Polo  Legato  della  S.  Sede 
Apostolica  alia  Santita  di  N.  S.  lulio  Papa  HL  sopra  la  riduttione  di 
ql  Regno  alia  vnione  della  Santa  Madre  Chiesa,  &  obedienza  della 
Sede  Apostolica.   In  Roma  per  Valeria,  &  Luigi  Dorici.    [1554.]    4to. 


MARY. 


925 


Six  leaves.  This  is  evidently  the  first  edition.  In  the  Grcnville  Library  are 
two  other  editions,  one  printed  at  Milan  and  the  other  without  place  of  printing. 

MARY,  Queen  of  England.  Coronatione  de  la  Serenissima 
Reina  Maria  d'Inghiltcrra  fatta  il  di  primo  d'Ottobre.  MD.LIIII. 
\Scnz'  alcuna  data?[    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

II  Felicissimo  Ritorno  del  Regno  d'Inghiltcrra  alia  Catholica 


Vnione,    &    alia  obedientia    della    Sede   Apostolica.     \Sens'  alcuna 
data.']    4to. 

Eight  leaves.  This  appears  to  be  the  first  edition.  On  the  last  leaf  is  a  cut  of 
the  Papal  arms  with  "  Con  gratia  et  privilegio  "  beneath.  The  edition  in  the  Gren- 
ville  Library  was  printed  at  Milan. 

L'Allegrezza  publica,  et  ringratiamenti  fatti  a  Dio  dalla  San- 


tita  di  N.  S.  lulio  Papa  III.  et  dal  sacro  Collegio,  &  da  tutto  il  popolo 
di  Roma,  per  il  felicissimo  ritorno  del  Regno  d'Inghiltcrra  alia  catho- 
lica vnione,  &  alia  obedientia  della  Sede  Apostolica.  \_Scns'  alcuna 
data.]    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

La  partita  del  Serenissimo  Principe  con  Tarmata  di  Spagna, 


&  I'arriuata  sua  in  Inghiltcrra,  &  I'ordine  tenuto  dalla  Regina  in 
riccucre  Sua  Altezza,  Et  del  lietissimo  sponsalitio,  e  matrimonio  loro, 
con  il  nome  de  i  Signori,  e  Caualieri  Spagnuoli,  Inglesi,  &  altri  che 
iui  si  son  trouati  presenti,  &  delle  liuree,  feste,  &  altre  cose,  che  si  son 
fatte  alle  nozzi.     [Sena'  alcuna  data.]    4to.    R.  M. 

Six  leaves. 

La  Vera  Capitvlatione,  e  Articoli  passati,  e  conclusi  infra  il 


Serenissimo  Philippo  Principe  d'Ispagnia,  e  la  Serenissima  Regina 
Maria  d'Inghiltcrra  con  il  consenso  de  Principi  Baroni  e  Popoli  del 
detto  Regno  congregati  insieme  nella  inclita  Citta  di  Londra  il  mese 
di  Maggio  prossimo  passato,  principalmcnte  per  la  delibcratione,  e 
rcsolutionc  di  detti  Capitoli  pertinenti  al  Matrimonio  Contratto  infra 
gli  detti  Serenissimi  Principe,  e  Regina  Maria.  [At  the  end.]  Bate 
in  Londra  il  24  di  Luio  [sic].     1554.    [Sens' alcuna  data.]    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

MARY  QUEEN  OF  SCOTS.  The  copie  of  a  letter  written  by 
one  in  London  to  his  frend  concernyng  the  credit  of  the  late  published 
detection  of  the  doyngcs  of  the  Ladie  Marie  of  Scotland.  [No  place, 
printers  name,  or  date.]    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

Eight  leaves.     Probably  printed  at  London  about  1572. 


926  MARY— MARYLAND. 

MARY  QUEEN  OF  SCOTS.  A  discourse  touching  the  pre- 
tended match  bctweene  the  Duke  of  Norfolke  and  the  Oucene  of 
Scottes.      \No  place  or  date.']     Sm.  Svo. 

Eight  leaves,  the  first  and  last  blank.     Probably  printed  at  London  about  1572. 

L'Innocencede  la  tresillustre,  tres-chaste,  et  debonnaire  Prin- 


cesse,  Madame  Marie  Royne  d'Escosse.  Ou  sent  amplement  refut(;es 
les  calomnies  faulces,  &  impositions  iniques,  pubHees  par  un  hure  se- 
crettement  diuulgu6  en  France,  I'an  1572.  touchant  tant  la  mort  du 
Seigneur  d'Arley  son  espoux,  que  autres  crimes,  dont  elle  est  faulce- 
ment  accusde.  Plus,  vn  autre  discours  auquel  sont  descouuertes  plu- 
sieurs  trahisons  tant  manifestes,  que  iusques  icy,  cachees,  perpetrees 
par  les  mesmes  calomniateurs.    Imprwi^ Tan  1^,72.    Svo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  20  leaves  ;  A — M  in  eights  ;  N,  4  leaves  ;  no  sig.  O  ; 
P — Z  in  eights ;  Aa,  6  leaves,  and  2  leaves  of  errata. 

This  reply  to  Buchanan's  violent  attack  on  Mary  Queen  of  Scots  is  attributed 
by  Barbier  to  Franqois  de  Belleforest. 

Discours  de  la  mort  de  iTres-hute  &  tres-ilustre  Princesse 


Madame  Marie  Stouard,  Royne  d'Ecosse.    Faict  le  dixhuictiesme  iour 
de  Feurier  1587.    [s.  I.  n.  d.]    Sm.  Svo.    BL.  M. 

Four  leaves.   There  is  no  regular  title-page. 

This  piece  appears  to  be  unknown  to  bibliographers.  It  was  probably  printed 
in  Paris  from  a  private  letter  sent  thither  immediately  after  the  execution  of  the 
Queen. 

Mariae  Stvartae  Scotorvm  ReginjE,  Principis  Catholicae,  nvper 


ab  Elizabetha  Regina,  et  ordinibus  Angliae,  post  nouendecim  annorum 
captiuitatem  in  arce  Fodringhaye  interfectse  Supplicium  &  Mors  pro 

fide  Catholics  constantissima Coloniae,  Apnd  Godcfridiim 

Kempensem.    Anno  M.D.LXXXVII.    Sm.  Svo. 

A — D  in  eights. 

MARYLAND.  A  Relation  of  Maryland  ;  Together,  With  A  Map 
of  the  Countrey,  The  Conditions  of  Plantation,  His  Majesties  Charter 
to  the  Lord  Baltemore,  translated  into  English.  These  Bookes  are  to 
bee  had,  at  Master  Williaui  Peasley  Esq  ;  his  house,  on  the  back-side  of 
Drury-Lane,  neere  the  Cockpit  Phiylionse  ;  or  in  his  absence,  at  Master 
lohn  Morgans  house  in  high  Holbonrnc,  over  against  the  Dolphin, 
London.  September  the  ^.    Anno  Dom.  1635.    4to.    R.  M. 

A— H  2  in  fours,  the  first  leaf  blank  ;  the  "  Charter,"  A  2— D  i  in  fours.  With 
a  map  engraved  by  T.  Cecill,  and  headed  "  Noua  Terrje-Marise  tabula." 

The  map  is  frequently  wanting.  In  the  copy  belonging  to  Mr.  G.  Chalmers  was 
the  following  MS.  note  by  Dr.  Lort:  '"  In  the  great  cause  concerning'the  Limits  of 
Pensylvania  and  Maryland,  depending  for  many  years  between  the  Proprietor  Mr. 
Penn  and  Lord  Baltimore,  this  book  (a  Copy  of  which  could  only  be  found  in  the 


AfA  S  CH—MA  S  O  UE. 


927 


lib)-ajy  of  Sir  Hans  Sloanc)  was  produced  in  the  Court  of  Chancery  and  allowed  in 
E'c'idence,  proper  care  being  taken  to  prove  it  genuine,  &c.'  The  case  was  decided 
in  favour  of  Penn  about  1750.  See  the  Interesting  Note." — Nole  in  G.  Chalmers's 
Catalogue. 

MASCH,  A.  G.  Bibliotheca  Sacra  post  Jac.  Le  Long  et  C.  F. 
Boerneri  iteratas  cvras  ordine  disposita,  emendata,  suppleta  et  con- 
tinuata.    Halac.     1778.    4  vols  in  2.    4to.    R. 

MASINI,  Eliseo.  Sacro  Arsenale,  overo  Prattica  dell'  Officio 
della  S.  Inquisitione  ampliata.  In  Gcnova  per  Giuseppe  Pavoni 
MDCXXV.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves;  A — HHH  in  fours. 

MASON,  Henry.  The  New  Art  of  Lying,  Covered  by  lesvites 
vnder  the  Vaile  of  Equivocation ;  Discovered  and  Disproved  by 
Henry  Mason.  London  :  Printed  by  George  Purslowe  for  lohn  Clarke, 
and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  vnder  Saint  Peters-Church  in  Cornehill. 
1624.    4to. 

(a) — (b)  in  fours,  title  on  (a)  2  ;  A — P  in  fours. 

[MASON,  N.]  Certamen  Seraphicvm  Provinciae  Anglise  pro 
Sancta  Dei  Ecclesia.  Li  quo  breviter  declarator,  quomodo  Fratres 
Minores  Angli  calamo  &  sanguine  pro  Fide  Christi  Sanctaque  eius 
Ecclesia  certarunt  ....  Opere  &  labore  R.  P.  F.  Angeli  a  S.  Fran- 
cisco Conventus  Recollectorum  Anglorum  Duaci  Guardian!  .... 
Concinnatum.  Dvaci,  Typis  Baltasaris  Belleri,  Sub  Circino  aureo. 
Anno  1649.    4to.    BR.  M. 

Engraved  title,  printed  title,  and  preliminaries,  13  leaves  ;  pp.  1-356  and  five 
portraits. 

There  is  in  the  library  a  second  copy  which  has  a  different  dedication. 

MASON,  Robert.  Reasons  Academic.  Set  forth  by  Robert 
Mason  of  Lincolns  Inne,  Gent.  Vitet  ccnsura  furorem.  London.  Im- 
printed by  Tho.  Creede,  for  lohn  Broivne,  and  are  to  be  solde  at  his  shop 
in  S.  Diinstons  Church-yard  in  Fleet-strecte.    1605.    Sm.  Svo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — H  in  eights,  last  leaf  blank.    With  a  folding  table. 

A  beautiful  copy  of  a  most  rare  volume,  in  the  old  vellum  cover.  Dedicated  to 
Sir  John  Popham.  At  the  end  is  "  Reasons  Moane,"  occupying  three  leaves,  and 
written  in  six-line  stanzas.  These  verses  were  not  by  Mason,  but  by  Sir  John 
Davies. 

MASQUE.  The  King  and  Oveenes  Entertainment  at  Richmond. 
After  their  Departvre  from  Oxford  :  In  a  Masque,  presented  by  the 
m.ost  Illustrious  Prince,  Prince  Charles  Sept.  12.  1636.  .  .  .  Oxford 
Printed  by  Leonard  Lichfield.     1636.    4to. 

A — D  in  fours. 

We  learn  from  the  preface  that  the  occasion  of  this  masque  was  the  Queen's 


928  MASS—MASSINGER. 

desire  of  seeing  the  Prince  dance,  who  was  then  not  much  above  six  years  old. 
The  dances  were  composed  by  Simon  Hopper,  the  music  by  Charles  Colman. 

The  piece  is  probably  the  only  early  production  written  in  the  dialect  of  Wilt- 
shire. It  says  in  the  preface  that "  because  most  of  the  Interlocutors  were  Wiltshire 
men,  that  country  dialect  was  chosen." 

MASS.  A  plaine  and  godlye  treatise,  concernynge  the  Masse  & 
the  blessed  Sacrament  of  the  Aulter,  for  the  instruccion  of  the  symple 
and  vnlerncd  people.  {London,  About  1 5 54-]  Sm.  8vo.  Black  letter. 
BR.  M. 

A— H  3  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Printed  without  any  title-page.  What  is  given  above  occurs  as  a  headline  on 
A  I.  At  the  end  is :  "  Cum  Priuilegio  per  septennium."  From  Mr.  Maskell's  col- 
lection. 

MASSACHUSETTS.  Debates,  Resolutions  and  other  Pro- 
ceedings, of  the  Convention  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts, 
Convened  at  Boston,  on  the  9th  of  January,  1788,  and  continued  until 
the  7th  of  February  following,  for  the  purpose  of  assenting  to  and 
ratifying  the  Constitution  recommended  by  the  Grand  Federal  Con- 
vention. Together  with  The  Yeas  and  Nays  on  the  decision  of  the 
Grand  Question.  To  which  the  Federal  Constitution  is  prefixed. 
Bosto}i:  ....  M,DCC,LXXXVIII.    8vo. 

Pp.  220,  the  last  blank. 

MASSINGER,  Philip.  Plays,  with  notes  critical  and  explana- 
tory by  William  Gifford.  Londoi.  1813.  4  vols.  Royal  8vo.  Large 
paper.    R.  M. 

The  Virgin  Martir,  A  Tragedie.    As  it  hath  bin  divers  times 

publickely  Acted  with  great  Applause,  By  the  seruants  of  his  Ma- 
iestics  Reuels.  Written  by  Phillip  Messenger  and  Thomas  Deker. 
London,  Printed  by  B.  A.  for  Thomas  lones.    1622.    4to. 

Title  and  B — M  i  in  fours. 

First  edition,  and  the  rarest  of  all  Massinger's  plays.  As  to  the  respective 
shares  of  Massinger  and  Decker  in  the  composition  critics  are  at  variance. 

The  Bond-Man  :  An  Antient  Storie.    As  it  hath  been  often 

Acted  with  good  allowance,  at  the  Cock-pit  in  Drury-lane :  by  the 
most  Excellent  Princesse,  the  Lady  Elizabeth  her  Seruants.  By 
Philip  Massinger.  London.  Printed  by  Edw  :  Allde,  for  John  Harison 
and  Edward  Blacknwrc,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  great  South  dare  of 
Pauls.    1624.    4to. 

A — L  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

First  edition.  Dedicated  to  Philip,  Earl  of  Montgomery.  With  verses  by  Wil- 
liam Browne. 


MASSINGER.  929 

MASSINGER,    Philip.     The   Bond-Man:  An   Ancient   Storie. 

London,  Printed  by  loJm  Raworth  for  Edzuard  Blackmore,  and 

are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  the  signe  of  the  Angel  in  Pauls-Churchyard. 
1638.    4to. 

A — K  in  fours. 

The  Roman  Actor.    A  Trag^die.    As  it  hath  diuers  times 


becne,  with  good  allowance  Acted,  at  the  private  Play-house  in  the 
Black-Friers,  by  the  Kings  Majesties  Servants.  Written  By  Philip 
Massinger.  London.  Printed  by  B.  A.  and  T.  F.for  Robert  Allot,  and 
are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  at  the  Signe  of  the  Beare  in  Pauls  Church- 
yard.   1629.    4to. 

A — K  in  fours. 

First  edition.  Dedicated  "  To  my  much  Honoured,  and  most  true  Friends,  Sir 
Philip  Knyvet,  Knight  and  Baronet.  And  to  Sir  Thomas  leay,  Knight.  And  Thomas 
Bellingham  of  Newtimber  in  Sussex  Esquire."  The  names  of  John  Lowin  and  the 
other  original  performers  in  the  drama,  with  the  parts  cast  to  each,  are  given  on  the 
back  of  the  title. 

There  are  complimentary  verses  by  Thomas  May,  John  Ford,  Joseph  Taylor 
(the  celebrated  actor),  and  others. 

The  Renegado,  a  Tragzecomedie.    As  it  hath  beene  often 

acted  by  the  Queenes  Maiesties  seruants,  at  the  priuate  Play-house  in 
Drurye-Lane.  By  Philip  Massinger.  London,  Printed  by  A.  M.for 
John  Waterson,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  tlie  Crownc  in  Pauls  Church-  Yard. 
1630.    4to. 

A — M  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

The  only  separate  edition.  Dedicated  "  To  the  Right  Honovrable  George  Hard- 
ing, Baron  Barkley,  of  Barkley  Castle,"  in  a  brief  epistle,  where  the  poet  describes 
himself  as  Lord  Berkeley's  countryman. 

The  Pictvre.     A  Trage  comedie.  As  it  was  often  presented 

with  good  allowance,  at  the  Globe,  and  Blacke-Friers  Play-houses,  by 
the  Kings  Maiesties  Seruants.  Written  by  Philip  Massinger.  London. 
Printed  by  I.  N.  for  Thomas  Walklcy  and  are  to  be  sould  at  his  shoppe 
at  the  Eagle  and  Child  in  Brittains  Burse.    1630.    4to.    R.  M. 

A—  N  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  "  To  my  Honored,  and  selected  friends  of  the  Noble  society  of  the 
Inner  Temple."     There  are  complimentary  verses  by  Thomas  Jay. 

The  Fatall  Dowry :   A  Tragedy.    As  it  hath  beene  often 

Acted  at  the  Priuate  House  in  Blackefryers,  by  his  Maiesties  Ser- 
uants. Written  by  P.[hilip]  M.[assinger]  and  N.[athaniel]  F.[ield.] 
London,  Printed  by  John  Norton,  for  Francis  Constable,  and  are  to  be 
sold  at  his  shop  at  the  Crane,  in  Pauls  Church-yard.    1632.    4to. 

5  Q 


930  MASSINGER. 

A,  2  leaves,  with  the  title  and  sonijs  ;  B— L  in  fours. 

Field  is  supposed  to  have  co-operated  with  Massinger  in  \vriting  this  play  before 
the  year  1623  ;  and  Mr.  Collier  is  of  opinion,  judging  from  the  character  of  Field's 
unassisted  dramatic  labours,  that  he  was  capable  of  contributing  to  the  work  in  a 
more  important  degree  than  Gifford  had  been  willing  to  allow. 

MASSINGER,  Philip.  The  Maid  of  Honovr.  As  it  hath  beene 
often  presented  with  good  allowance  at  the  Phcenix  in  Drvrie-Lane, 
by  the  Oueenes  Majesties  Servants.  Written  by  Philip  Massinger.  Loji- 
doH,  Printed  by  I.  B.for  Robert  Allot,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  at 
tlic  signe  of  the  blacke  Bearc  in  Pauls  Church-yard,  1632.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves ;  B— L  in  fours. 

P'irst  edition.  Dedicated  "  To  my  most  honour'd  friends,  Sir  Francis  Foliambe, 
Knight  and  Baronet,  and  to  Sir  Thomas  Bland  Knight."  There  are  some  compli- 
mentary verses  by  Sir  Aston  Cokaine. 

The   Emperovr  of  the   East.     A  Tragze-Comoedie.      The 

Scoene  Constantinople.  As  it  hath  bene  diuers  times  acted,  at  the 
Black-friers,  and  Globe  Play-houses,  by  the  Kings  Maiesties  Seruants. 
Written  by  Philip  Massinger.  London,  Printed  by  Thomas  Harper,  for 
lohn  Waterson,  Anno  1632.    4to. 

A — M  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

First  edition.  Dedicated  by  the  author  to  John  Lord  Mohun,  Baron  of  Oak- 
hampton.    With  commendatory  verses  by  Sir  Aston  Cokaine,  and  others. 

A  New  Way  to  Pay  Old  Debts    A  Comoedie    As  it  hath 

beene  often  acted  at  the  Phoenix  in  Drury-Lane,  by  the  Queenes  Ma- 
iesties seruants.  The  Author.  Philip  Massinger.  London,  Printed  by 
E.  P.  for  Henry  Seyle,  dwelling-  in  S.  Pauls  Church-yard,  at  the  signe 
of  the  Tygers  head.    Anno.  M.  DC.  XXX ILL    4to. 

A — I\I  2  in  fours. 

First  edition.  Dedicated  to  Robert,  Earl  of  Carnarvon,  Master  Falconer  of  Eng- 
land. 

The  Great  Dvke  of  Florence.    A  Comicall  Historic.    As  it 


hath  beene  often  presented  with  good  allowance  by  her  Ma''"  Ser- 
vants at  the  Phcenix  in  Drurie  Lane.  Written  by  Philip  Massinger. 
London  :  Printed  for  John  Marriot.    1636.    4to. 

A — L  1  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

The  actors'  names  are  on  the  back  of  the  title.  First  edition.  Dedicated  "  To 
the  Truly  Honored,  and  my  Noble  Favourer,  Sir  Robert  Wisemm  Knight,  of 
Thorrells  Hall  in  Essex."  There  are  commendatory  verses  by  George  Donne  and 
John  Ford. 

The  Dvke  of  Millaine.    A  Tragedy.    As  it  hath  beene  often 


acted  by  his  Majesties   Servants,  at  the  Black-Friers.    Written  by 
Philip  Massinger  Gent.    London,  Printed  by  lohn  Raworth  for  Edward 


MASSINGER.  931 

Blackmore,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  the  signe  of  the  Angel  in 
Pauls- Churchyard.    1638.    4to. 

A — K  in  fours. 

MASSINGER,  Philip.  The  Vnnatvrall  Combat.  A  Tragedie. 
The  Scaene  Marsellis.  Written  by  Philip  Massinger.  As  it  was  pre- 
sented by  the  Kings  Majesties  Servants  at  the  Globe.  London,  Printed 
by  E.  G.  for  lohn  Waterson,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  tlte  signe 
of  the  Crow7ie,  in  S.  Pauls  Church-yard.    1639.    4to.    R.  M. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — L  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  "To  my  much  Honoured  Friend,  Anthony  Sentliger  of  Oukham  in 
Kent  Esquire." 

Three  New  Playes  ;  viz.    The  Bashful  Lover,  Guardian,  Very 

Woman.  As  they  have  been  often  Acted  at  the  Private-House  in 
Black-Friers,  by  His  late  Majesties  Servants,  with  great  Applause. 
Written  by  Philip  Massenger,  Gent.  Never  Printed  before.  London, 
Printed  for  Humphrey  Moselcy;  ....  1655.  Sm.  8vo.  Portrait  by 
T.  Cross.    BL.  M. 

General  title,  I  leaf;  title  and  prologue  to  "  Bashful  Lover,"  2  leaves ;  B— T  6  in 
eights. 

The  Excellent  Comedy,  called  The  Old  Law :  Or  A  new 

way  to  please  you.  By  Phil.  Massenger.  Tho.  Middleton.  William 
Rowley.  Acted  before  the  King  and  Queene  at  Salisbury  House,  and 
at  severall  other  places,  with  great  Applause.  Together  with  an  exact 
and  perfect  Catalogue  of  all  the  Playes,  with  the  Authors  Names, 
and  what  are  Comedies,  Tragedies,  Histories,  Pastoralls,  Masks,  Inter- 
ludes, more  exactly  Printed  than  ever  before.  London,  Printed  for 
Ediuard  Archer,  at  the  signe  of  the  Adam  and  Eve,  in  Little  Britaine. 
1656.    4to. 

Title,  I  leaf;  B — L  2  in  fours  ;  the  "  Catalogue,"  3  leaves. 

Some  of  the  pieces  mentioned  in  this  Catalogue  are  no  longer  known. 

The  City-Madam,  A  Comedie.  As  it  was  acted  at  the  private 

House  in  Black  Friers  with  great  applause.  Written  by  Phillip  Mas- 
singer  Gent.  London  Printed  for  Andrew  Pennycuicke,  one  of  the 
Actors,  In  tlie year  1659.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — L  in  fours. 

First  edition,  but  one  copy,  at  least,  exists  with  the  date  1658.  It  was  formerly 
in  Mr.  Jolley's  library,  and  is  now  in  the  British  Museum.  It  is  the  same 
impression. 

Dedicated  by  Pennycuicke  "  To  the  truly  Noble  and  virtuous  Lady  Ann, 
Countess  of  Oxford,"  in  an  epistle,  where  he  speaks  of  the  "  universall  fame  of  the 
deceased  Author,"  and  presently  adds,  "  I  wil  not  slander  it  with  my  praises,  it  is 
commendations  enough  to  call  it  Massingers." 

A  Bridgewater  duplicate,  from  the  libiaries  of  the  Duke  of  Roxburghe  and  the 
Rev.  John  Mitford. 


932  MA  SS  UCCIO—MA  THER. 

MASSUCCIO.  [On  sig.  a  i]  Massucii  Salcrnitani  de  quTquaginta 
argumC-tis  moralibus  :  ad  illustrissima^  Hyppolitam.  [Colophon.]  Qui 
finisce  il  Noucllino  con  le.  L.  Argomcnti  is"  morali  coudiisioi  dalaini 
exempli  per  Masucio  giiardato  nobele  salernitano  facto  &■  ititulato  alia 
Illustrissima  Ipolita  d'Calabria  Duchessa.  Itnpressu}  Mcdiolani  per 
Christophonivi  Valdatscr  Ratisponensem  cmcdatum  &■  correctum  cum 
7Hapia  diligcntia  duo  dominice  passionis  Mxccclxxxiij.  die  xxviij.  May 
regnatitc  exceleiitissimo  liguriim  principe  Domino.  D.  Jodne  Galeae  Duce 
Mediolani.    Folio.    DR.  M. 

Brunei  describes  this  volume  as  a  small  folio,  and  an  ordinary  copy  would,  no 
doubt,  appear  so,  but  the  present  has  fortunately  suffered  so  little  at  the  binder's 
hands  that  it  measures  no  less  than  12  in.  by  Sin.  The  register  at  the  end  does 
not  serve  for  a  collation  of  the  book,  as  it  omits  all  mention  of  the  three  preliminary 
leaves  which  contain  the  dedicatory  epistle  and  the  table.  The  first  leaf  of  sig.  a  is 
blank,  and  the  second  leaf  of  the  sheet  is  marked  a  i.  So  that  there  are  only  seven 
firinted  leaves  to  the  first  sheet.  The  signatures  then  run  to  p  in  eights,  except 
sigs.  i,  1,  and  m,  which  have  only  six  leaves  each,  though  they  would  appear  from 
the  register  to  consist  of  eight  each.  The  volume  may  assuredly  be  reckoned 
among  the  very  rarest  books  of  its  class. 

MASTER  OF  THE  REVELS.    A  Collection  of  Ancient  Docu- 
ments respecting  the  Office  of  Master  of  the  Revels,  and  other  Papers 
relating  to  the  Early  English  Theatre.    From  the  Original  manuscripts 
formerly  in  the  Haslewood  Collection.    London  .  .  .  1870.    8vo. 
Eleven  copies  privately  printed  by  Mr.  Halliwell. 

MATELIEF,  Cornelis.  Historiale  ende  ware  Beschrijvinge 
vande  reyse  des  Admiraels  Cornelis  Matelief  de  Jonghe,  naer  de  Oost- 
Indien,  wtghetrocken  in  Mayo  1605.  Mitsgaders  de  belegheringc  voor 
Malacca,  als  ooc  den  flach  ter  Zee  teghen  de  Portugijssche  armade,  ende 
andere  discourssen.    Tot  Rotterdam,  By  Jan  Janssz.    Anno  1608.   4to. 

Six  leaves.     A  small  woodcut  on  the  title.     Reprinted  in  Hulsius,  Pt.  10. 

See  MuUer,  "  Mcimoire  Bibliographique  sur  les  Journaux  des  Navigateurs  Nder- 
landais,"  p.  208. 

Breeder  verhael  ende  klare  beschrijvinge  van  tghene  den  Ad- 

mirael  Cornelis  Matelief  de  Jonge  inde  Oost-Indien  voor  de  Stadt 
Malacca,  ende  int  belegh  der  zelver  wedervaren  is :  als  ooc  den  vrees- 
selijcken  strijdt  tcr  Zee,  tuschen  den  Admirael  voorsz  ende  de  Portu- 
gijsen,  ende  andere  gheschiedenissen  meer.  Overgeschreven  by  eenen 
der  Commisen  inde  Vlotc.    Tot  Rotterdam,  By  Jan  Janssz.    1608.    4to. 

Nine  leaves. 

See  Muller,  "  Mdmoire  Bibliographique,"  p.  209. 

MATHER,  Cotton.  The  Life  and  Death  Of  The  Renown'd  Mr. 
John  Eliot,  Who  was  the  First  Preacher  of  the  Gospel  to  the  Indians  in 
America.  With  an  Account  of  the  Wonderful  Success  which  the  Gospel 


MA  THER. 


933 


has  had  amongst  the  Heathen  in  that  part  of  the  World  :  And  of  the 
many  strange  Customes  of  the  Pagan  Indians,  In  New-England. 
Written  by  Cotton  Mather. 

Religion  stands  on  Tiptoe  in  our  Land, 
Ready  to  pass  to  tJie  American  strand. 

— Herbert. 
The  Second  Edition  carefully  corrected.    London:  Printed  for  John 
Dunton,  at  the  Raven  in  the  Poidtrey.    MDCXCL    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 
A — I  in  eights.     Dedicated  to  Philip,  Lord  Wharton,  by  the  author. 

MATHER,  Cotton.  The  Wonders  of  the  Invisible  World  :  Being 
an  Account  of  theTryals  of  Several  Witches,  Lately  Ex[e]cuted  in  New- 
England  :  And  of  several  remarkable  Curiosities  therein  Occurring. 
Together  with,  I.  Observations  upon  the  Nature,  the  Number,  and  the 
Operations  of  the  Devils.  II.  A  short  Narrative  of  a  late  outrage  com- 
mitted by  a  knot  of  Witches  in  Swede-Land,  very  much  resembling, 
and  so  far  explaining,  that  under  which  New-England  has  laboured. 
III.  Some  Councels  directing  a  due  Improvement  of  the  Terrible  things 
lately  done  by  the  unusual  and  amazing  Range  of  Evil-Spirits  in  New- 
England.  IV.  A  brief  Discourse  upon  those  Temptations  which  are 
the  more  ordinary  Devices  of  Satan.  By  Cotton  Mather.  Published  by 
the  Special  Command  of  his  Excellency  the  Govenour  of  the  Province 
of  the  Massachusetts-Bay  in  New-England.  Printed  first,  at  Bostun  in 
New-England ;  and  Reprinted  at  London,  for  John  Dunton,  at  the 
Raven  in  the  Poultry.    1693.    4to. 

Title,  A — K  in  fours  ;  L— Q,  2  leaves  each ;  and  R,  I  leaf. 

Batteries  upon  the  Kingdom  of  the  Devil.    Seasonable  Dis- 


courses upon  Some  Common,  but  Woful,  Instances,  wherein  men 
Gratifie  the  Grand  Enemy  of  their  Salvation.  By  Mr.  Cotton  Mather, 
Author  of  The  late  Memorable  Providences  relating  to  Witchcrafts  and 
Possessions  ;  and  of  Early  Piety  exemplified.  London,  Printed  for 
Natli.  Hiller,  at  the  Princes- Amies  in  Leadcn-Hall-Strcet,  over-agaitist 
St.  Mary  Axe.    1695.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — N  in  eights. 

Prefixed  is  a  letter  "To  my  Worthy  Nephew,  Mr.  Cotton  Mather,"  subscribed 
thus  :  "  (Dear  Cozen)  your  Affectionate  Unkle.  Nath.  Mather."  The  latter  was  the 
editor  of  the  volume.  He  speaks  of  having  found  the  original  MS.  in  a  state  of 
great  disorder,  and  of  its  publication  as  likely  to  prove  a  source  of  surprise  to  the 
author. 

The  Faith  of  the  Fathers.    Or,  The  Articles  of  the  True 


Religion,  all  of  them  exhibited  in  the  express  words  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment .  .  .  By  Cotton  Mather.  .  .  .  Boston  in  Nezv-England.  Printed 
by  B.  Green  and  J.  Allen.    1699.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — B  4  in  eights. 


934  MATHER. 

MATHER,  Cotton.  Duodccennium  Luctuosum.  The  History  of 
a  Long  War  with  Indian  Salvages,  And  their  Directors  and  Abettors  ; 
From  the  Year,  1702,  To  the  Year,  17 14.  Comprised  in  a  Short  Essay, 
to  declare  the  Voice  of  the  Glorious  God  in  the  Various  Occurrences  of 
that  War,  which  have  been  thought  Matters  of  more  Special  Observa- 
tion. A  Recapitulation  made  in  the  Audience  of  His  Excellency  the 
Governour  and  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Massachusett  Province ;  At 
Boston,  30.  d.  vii  m.  1714.  [Quotation  from  Livy.]  Boston:  Printed  by 
B.  Green,  for  Samuel  Gerrish,  at  his  Shop  on  the  North-side  of  the 
T.\pwn'\  House.    1 7 14.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — D  in  fours. 

Hades  Look'd  into.    The  Power  of  Our  Great  Saviour  Over 

the  Invisible  World,  and  the  Gates  of  Death  Which  lead  into  that  World. 
Considered  in  a  Sermon  preached  at  the  Funeral  of  the  Honourable 
Wait  Winthrop  Esq;  Who  Expired,  7d.  IX.  m.  1717.  In  the  LXXVI. 
Year  of  his  Age.  By  C.  Mather,  D.D.  &  F.R.S.  Boston:  Printed  by 
T.  Crump,  1 7 17.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

A— G  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank.  With  a  preface  by  Increase  Mather  and  an 
epitaph  in  Latin  at  the  end. 

India  Christiana.  A  Discourse,  Delivered  unto  the  Commis- 
sioners, for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel  among  the  American  Indians 
....  By  Cotton  Mather,  D.D.  and  F.R.S.  Boston  in  New-England : 
Printed  by  B.  Green.    1721.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — Q  in  fours,  and  a  slip  of  "  Corrigenda." 

Dedicated  to  Robert  Ashurst,  Esq.,  Governor  of  the  Corporation  for  propagating 
the  Gospel.  On  a  spare  leaf  before  the  title  is  written,  probably  by  the  author, 
"  For  Mr.  Martyn." 

Parentator.    Memoirs  of  Remarkables  in  the  Life  and  the 

Death  of  the  Ever-Memorable  Dr.  Increase  Mather.    Who  Expired, 

August  23.  1723 Boston:  Printed  by  B.  Green  for  Nathaniel 

Belknap,  at  the  Corner  of  Scarlets-  Wharff.     1724.    Sm.  Svo. 

A — R  in  eights,  with  a  portrait  by  Sturt,  "^tatis  sua  85,  1724." 
Dedicated  "  To  the  Illustrious  University,  of  Glasco." 

Edvlcorator.     A    brief    Essay   on    the   Waters   of    Marah 

Sweetened.  With  a  Remarkable  Relation  of  the  Deplorable  Occasion 
afforded  for  it,  In  the  Prcemature  Death  of  Captain  Josiah  Winslow, 
Who  (with  several  of  his  Company)  Sacrificed  his  Life,  in  the  Service  of 
his  Country;  Engaging  an  Army  of  Indians,  May  i.  1724.  Boston: 
Printed  by  B.  Green.    1725.    Sm.  Svo.    R.  M. 

A — F  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  the  Honourable  Col.  Isaac  Winslow,  and  his  Religious  Consort. 


MA  THER.  935 

MATHER,  Eleazar.  A  Serious  Exhortation  to  the  present 
and  succeeding  Generation  in  New-England  ;  Earnestly  calling  upon 
all  to  endeavour,  that  the  Lord's  Gracious  Presence  may  be  continued 
with  Posterity.  Being  the  Substance  of  the  Last  Sermons  preached 
by  Eleazar  Mather,  late  Pastor  of  the  Church  in  Northampton  in 
New-England.  .  .  .  Cambridge:  Printed  by  S.  G.atidM.  J.    1671.   4to. 

A — E  in  fours. 

With  a  preface  by  Increase  Mather,  addressed  to  the  Church  and  Inhabitants 
of  Northampton,  N.  E.,  from  his  study  in  Boston. 

MATHER,  INXREASE.  A  Brief  History  of  the  Warr  With  the 
Indians  in  New-England,  (from  June  14.  1675,  when  the  first  Eng- 
lish-man was  murdered  by  the  Indians,  to  August  12,  1676,  when 
Philip,  alias  Metacomet,  the  principal  Author  and  Beginner  of  the 
Warr,  was  slain).  Wherein  the  Grounds,  Beginning,  and  Progress  of 
the  Warr  is  summarily  expressed.  Together  with  a  serious  Exhorta- 
tion to  the  Inhabitants  of  that  Land.  By  Increase  Mather,  Teacher 
of  a  Church  of  Christ,  in  Boston,  in  New-England.  [Quotations  from 
Scripture,  &c.]  Boston.  Printed  and  Sold  by  JoJm  Foster  over  against 
the  Sign  of  tJie  Dove.    1676.    4to.    R.  M. 

Title  and  to  the  Reader,  3  leaves  ;  A — G  2  in  fours ;  postscript,  4  leaves  ;  the 
"  Exhortation,"  with  a  fresh  title,  A — D  3  in  fours. 

KOMHTOrPA^IA.     Or  A  Discourse  Concerning  Comets; 

wherein  the  Nature  of  Blazing  Stars  is  Enquired  into  :  With  an  His- 
torical Account  of  all  the  Comets  which  have   appeared  from   the 

Beginning  of  the  World  unto  this  present  Year,  M.DC.LXXXIII 

As  also  two  Sermons  Occasioned  by  the  late  Blazing  Stars.  By  In- 
crease Mather,  Teacher  of  a  Church  at  Boston  in  New-England.  [Quota- 
tions.] Boston  in  Neiv-Engla)id.  Printed  by  S.  G.  for  S.  S.  A  nd  sold 
by  y.  Browning  At  the  corner  of  the  Prison  Lane  next  the  Town-House, 
1683.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A,  8  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  B — K  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  two  sermons  occur  at  the  end,  with  a  separate  title  and  signatures.  A  first 
impression  of  them  appeared  separately.  Attached  to  the  "  Cometographia"  is  a 
curious  supplementary  errata  on  a  small  slip.  The  last  leaf  of  this  portion  is 
blank.     The  sermons  make  A — E  in  eights. 

The  Doctrine  of  Divine  Providence,  Opened  and  Applyed  : 

Also  Sundry  Sermons  on  Several  other  Subjects.  By  Increase  Mather. 
Teacher  of  a  Church  at  Boston  in  New-England.  [Quotations  from 
Psal.  cvii.  43,  and  Romans  xi.  33.]  Boston  in  New-England  Printed 
by  Richard  Pierce  for  Joseph  Broivning,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop 
at  the  Corner  of  Prison-Lane  next  the  Exchange.    1684.    Sm.  8vo. 

A— L  2  in  eights  ;  a  blank  leaf;  a  new  title,  "  A  Sermon  wherein  is  shewed  that 


936  MA  THER. 

it  is  the  Dutj'and  should  be  the  Care  of  Believers  in  Christ  to  Live  in  the  Constant 
Exercise  of  Grace.  By  Mr.  Nathanael  Mather  Pastor  of  a  Church  at  Dublin  in 
Ireland.  [Quotations.]  Printed  at  Boston  in  New-England  by  R.  P.  for  Joseph 
Browning  Stationer.    Anno  1684,"  i  leaf;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B,  1 1  leaves. 

MATHER,  IN'CREASE.  The  Order  of  the  Gospel,  Professed  and 
Practised  by  the  Churches  of  Christ  in  New-England,  justified  by  the 
Scripture,  and  by  the  writings  of  many  Learned  men  ....  By  Increase 
Mather,  President  of  Harvard  Colledge  in  Cambridge  ....  Boston, 
Printed  by  B.  Green  &  J.  Allen  for  Nicholas  Buttolph  ....   1700. 

Sm.  Svo. 

A — M  in  sixes. 

Some  Remarks  on  a  Pretended  Answer  to  a  Discourse  con- 
cerning the  Common-Prayer  worship,  with  an  Exhortation  to  the 
Cliurches  in  New-England,  to  hold  fast  the  Profession  of  their  Faith 

without  wavering.    By  Increase  Mather,  D.D Printed  for  Nath. 

Hillier,at  the  Princes  Arms  in  Lcaden-H all-Street  in  London:  and 
for  tlu  Book-sellers  in  Boston  in  Nrd)-Engla7id.   [17 12.]    Sm.  Svo.   R.  M. 

A— E  3  in  fours,  or  half  sheets ;  separate  title  to  appendix,  i  leaf;  appendix, 
5  leaves. 

The  title  to  the  appendix  is  as  follows:  "An  appendix,  containing  some  Re- 
marks on  a  Book  written  by  the  Bishop  of  Derry.  Sold  by  several  of  the  Book- 
sellers in  Boston.    M.  D.  CC  XIH." 

MATHER,  Nathanael.  A  Sermon  wherein  is  shewed  that  it  is 
the  Dvty  and  should  be  the  Care  of  Behevers  on  Christ  to  h've  in  the 
Constant  Exercise  of  Grace.  By  Mr.  Nathanael  Mather  Pastor  of  a 
Church  at  Dublin  in  Ireland.  [Quotations.]  Printed  at  Boston  in 
New-England  by  R.  F.  for  Joseph  Browning  Stationer.  Anno  1684. 
Sm.  Svo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B,  8  leaves  ;  C,  3  leaves  and  the  title-page.  C  3  is  only  an  ad- 
vertisement. 

MATHER,  Richard.  A  Modest  &  Brotherly  Answer  To  Mr. 
Charles  Herle  his  Book,  against  the  Independency  of  Churches. 
Wherein  his  foure  Arguments  for  the  Government  of  Synods  over 
particular  Congregations,  are  friendly  Examined,  and  clearly  Answered. 
Together,  with  Christian  and  Loving  Animadversions  upon  sundry 
other  observable  passages  in  the  said  Booke.  All  tending  to  declare 
the  true  use  of  Synods,  and  the  power  of  Congregationall  Churches  in 
the  points  of  electing  and  ordaining  their  owne  Officers,  and  censuring 
their  Offendors.  By  Richard  Mather,  Teacher  of  the  Church  at  Dor- 
chester ;  And  William  Tompson  Pastor  of  the  Church  at  Braintree  in 
New-England.  Sent  from  thence  after  the  Assembly  of  Elders  were 
dissolved  that  last  met  at  Cambridg  to  debate  matters  about  Church- 


MA  THE  R—MA  T  THIA  S.  937 

government.  London,  Printed  for  Henry  Overton  in  Popes-Jiead  alley, 
1644.    4to. 

A — H  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

IMATHER,  Richard.  The  Life  and  Death  of  That  Reverend 
Man  of  God,  Mr.  Richard  Mather,  Teacher  of  the  Church  in  Dorchester 
in  New-England.  [Quotations.]  Ministri  vita  censura  i^  cynosura. 
Cambridge :  Printed  by  S.  G.  atid  M.  J.    1670.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — F  i  in  fours. 

Prefixed  is  an  address  by  Increase  Mather  "To  the  Church  and  Inhabitants  of 
Dorchester  in  N.  E,"  in  which  he  states  that  "  The  Composer  of  this  ensuing 
Relation  is  not  willing  that  his  Name  should  be  published.  But  it  is  done  by  one 
who  hath  had  the  viewing  of  my  Fathers  Manuscripts  ;  from  whence,  as  well  as 
from  personal  and  intimate  Acquaintance  of  many  years  continuance,  and  other 
wayes,  he  hath  been  truly  furnished  with  the  knowledge  of  what  is  here  reported." 

MATIENZO,  LUYS.  Verdadera  Relacion  de  la  espantosa  LIuuia 
de  sangre  que  cayo  en  los  campos  de  Villorado,  y  en  Villa  franca  de 
los  Motes  de  Oca,  el  dia  de  la  Magdalena,  este  ano  de  mil  y  seiscientos 
y  ocho.  Compuesto  por  el  Licenciado  Luys  de  Matiengo  Lleua  al 
cabo  vna  rogatiua  para  meditar  y  orar  con  Christo  Redemptornuestro, 
pidiendole  misericordia.  Todo  ello  visto  y  examinado,  y  con  licencia 
Impressa.  [Colophon.]  Impressas  con  licencia,  En  Salamanca,  En  casa 
de  Antonia  Ramirez  viuda.    Alio  \6\o^.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

Beneath  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  monks  singing  in  choir,  and  above  the  colophon 
another  of  the  Virgin  and  Child,  surrounded  by  a  glory  and  encircled  by  a  rosary. 
The  author  is  mentioned  by  Salvi  (No.  281)  as  a  contributor  to  a  collection  of 
pieces  printed  at  Salamanca  in  1615,  in  honour  of  the  beatification  of  S.  Teresa, 
but  no  separate  publication  by  him  appears  to  be  recorded. 

MATTH^EUS  PARISIENSIS.  Matthaei  Paris  Monachi  Alban- 
ensis  Angli,  Historia  Major  Juxta  Exemplar  Londinense  1571,  ver- 
batim recusa Huicprimum  Editioniaccesserunt.duorum  Offarum 

Merciofum  Regum  ;  &  viginti  trium  Abbatum  S.  Albani  vitae  :  Una 
cum  Libro  Additamentorum  Per  eundem  Authorem  Editore  W.  Wats. 
Londini.    1640.    Folio.    R. 

MATTHEWS,  John.  A  Voyage  to  the  River  Sierra-Leone,  on 
the  Coast  of  Africa ;  containing  an  Account  of  the  Trade  and  Produc- 
tions of  the  Country  ...  In  a  Series  of  Letters  ....  London  .  .  . 
1788.    8vo. 

Pp.  184,  the  last  page  blank.     With  two  folded  maps. 

MATTHIAS,  Emperor  of  Germany.  Newes  from  Franc- 
fort,  Concerning  the  election  of  the  most  mighty  Emperor  Matthias 
the  first  of  that  name,  Who  was  elected  and  crowned  in  Francfort,  in 
June  last.  Anno.  16 1 2.   Translated  out  of  Dutch  into  English.  London 

5  R 


938  MA  UNDRELL—MA XIMILIA N. 

Printed  for  Henry  Holland,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  hiy  lane, 
at  tlu  signe  of  the  Holy-bush.    1 6 1 2.    4to. 

A— B  in  fours,  a  leaf  before  the  title  being  occupied  with  a  recital  of  the 
Emperor's  style  and  titles.    Woodcut  on  title. 

MAUNDRELL,  Henry.  A  Journey  from  Aleppo  to  Jerusalem  ; 
at  Easter,  A.  D.  1697.  The  Seventh  Edition  ;  To  which  is  now  added 
an  Account  of  the  Author's  Journey  to  the  Banks  of  Euphrates  at 
Beer,  and   to   the  Country  of  Mesopotamia   ....    Oxford.   1749. 

8vo.    Plates.    R. 

Pp.  172  +  xii.  (not  marked).  Plates  at  pp.  I,  6,  22,  23,  51,  54,  114,  and  at  p.  135 
seven  plates  of  the  Temple. 

MAURICE,  Count  of  Nassau.  A  Short  report  of  the  honour- 
able lourney  into  Brabant,  by  his  Excellencie  Graue  Mauris,  Gouernour 
and  Lord  Generall  of  the  vnited  Netherlandish  Prouinces  :  From  the  26. 
day  of  lune,  to  the  19.  day  of  luly,  1602.  Together  with  the  taking  of 
Helmont,  and  of  his  marching  to  the  strong  Towne  of  Graue.  Trans- 
lated out  of  the  Dutch  Copie  printed  at  Vtricht.  London  Printed  by 
T.  C.  for  Thomas  Pauier,  and  a7-e  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Corn-hill 
neare  the  Exxhange,  at  t/ie  Signe  of  the  Cat  and  Parrots.  1602.  4to. 
Black  letter. 

A — B  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

MAUROY,  Nicolas.  Les  hymnes  communs  de  lannee  :  trans- 
latez  de  latin  en  Francoys  en  rithme,  par  Nicolas  Mauroy,  le  ieune,  de 

Troyes On  les  vend  a  Troyes,  es  hostelc  de  Nicolas  Mauroy,  le 

ieufie  ;  deuant  Lhostcl  dicu  le  Covitcs  et  Jelian  Lecoq  iiiiprinieiir,  dcuant 
Nostre  dame.  [Colophon.]  Cy  finent  les  Hymnes  communs  de  lannee 
nouuellemcnt  traduictz  de  langtie  latine  a  vietrificature  francoise par  lanc- 
ieiir  preallegne.  Lcsquelz  ant  este  histories,  imprimec,  &  acheuez  a  Troyes 
le  via.  iourde  Janvier  Mil  cinq  cetz.  xxvii :  En  la  maison  de  Jehan  Lecoq 
hnprivieur  &  libraire  dcmourant  audict  lieu.  Aiiec  priuilege  du  Roy 
nostre  sire :  pour  troys  ans.     4to.     Black  letter.     Woodcuts.     BL.  M. 

A — Q  in  fours  and  eights  alternately ;  S  and  R,  4  leaves  each  ;  T,  6  leaves. 

On  the  bottom  margin  of  A  iii  is  the  autograph  signature  of  the  author. 

MAXIMILIAN.  Der  Kiinigklichen  vertrag  gemacht  zwischen 
den  hochgebornen  Fiirsten  vnd  herrn  Herrn  Hertzog  Albrecht  vn 
Wolfgang  gebriidern,  an  ainem,  Vnd  Hertzog  Ruprechts  weylend 
verlassen  erben  an  andcrn.  Auff  den  gehalten  Ki.iniglichcn  tag  zu 
Coin  Im  funffzehenhundertsten  vnd  fiinfften  jare.  [0.  O.  u.  J.  1505.] 
4to. 

Eight  leaves,  the  last  blank. 

"  Sie  enthalt  Kayser  Maximilians  Decisum,  iiber  die  zwischen  Baiem  und  Pfalz, 
wegen  der  Verlassenschaft  Herzog  Georgs  entstandene  Mishelligkeiten ;  die  aber 
dadurch  noch  nicht  ganz  beygeleget  wurden." — Panzer. 


MA  XI  MIL  I A  N  US— MA  X  WE  L  L . 


939 


MAXIMILIANUS  TRANSYLVANUS.  De  Molvccis  Insulis, 
itemq;  alijs  pluribus  miradis,  quae  nouissima  Castellanorum  nauigatio 
Sereniss.  Imperatoris  Caroli.  V.  auspicio  suscepta,  nuper  inuenit : 
Maximiliani  Transyluani  ad  Reuerendiss.  Cardinalem  Saltzburgensem 
epistola  lectu  perquam  iucunda.  [Colophon.]  Colonics  in  adibus  Eu- 
charij  Certiicorni.  Anno  uirginei partus.  M.D.XXIII.  mense  lanuario. 
Sm.  8vo. 

Sixteen  leaves,  the  last  blank. 

This  is  without  doubt  the  earliest  edition  of  this  valuable  tract,  in  which  the 
discoveries  of  Ferdinand  Magellan  and  his  companions  were  first  announced. 
Charles  V.  was  at  Valladolid  when  the  news  reached  him  of  the  arrival  at  Seville 
of  the  sur\-ivors  of  the  expedition.  He  commanded  them  to  come  to  Valladolid, 
and  an  account  of  their  adventures  was  taken  down  by  his  secretary',  Maximilianus 
Transylvanus,  and  also  by  Peter  Martyr.  The  former  addressed  his  account  to  his 
father,  the  Cardinal  Archbishop  of  Salzburg,  and  had  it  printed  at  Cologne,  whence 
he  had  recently  returned  with  the  Emperor.  The  account  of  Peter  Martyr  was 
sent  to  Pope  Adrian,  who  is  known  to  have  received  it,  but  the  MS.  was  subse- 
quently lost.  The  Roman  editions  of  February  and  November  are  reprints  of  that 
of  Cologne,  the  date  "Vallisoleti  die  xxiiii  Octobris  M.  D.  XXII."  being  omitted. 
The  year  was  reckoned  at  Cologne  from  January  ist. 

Maximiliani  Transyluani  Caesaris  a  secretis  Epistola,  de  ad- 

mirabili  &  nouissima  Hispanorii  in  Orientem  nauigatione,  qua  uariEe, 
&  nulli  prius  accessae  Regiones  inuetJE  sunt,  cum  ipsis  etia  Moluccis 
insulis  beatissimis,  optimo  Aromatu  genere  refertis.  Inauditi  quoq. 
incolai^  mores  exponuntur,  ac  multa  quae  Herodotus,  Plinius,  Solinus 
atque  alii  tradiderunt,  fabulosa  esse  arguunt.  Contra,  nonnulla  ibide 
uera,  uix  tamen  credibilia  explicant  quibuscum  historiis  Insularibus 
ambitus  describit^  alterius  Hemisphaerii,  unde  ad  nos  tande  hispani 
redierunt  incolumes.  [Colophon.]  Roniae  in  aedibus.  F.  Minitii  Calvi 
A nno.  M.D.  XXIIII.  mense  Feb.    4to. 

A — C,  4  leaves  each  ;  D,  6  leaves. 

MAXWELL,  James.  A  Monvment  of  Remembrance,  erected  in 
Albion,  in  Honor  of  the  Magnificent  departvre  from  Brittannie,  and 
honorable  receiuing  in  Germany,  namely  at  Heidelberge,  of  the  two 
most  Noble  Princes  Fredericke  ...  &  Elizabeth  ....  By  lames  Max- 
wel.  London,  Printed  by  Nicholas  Okes,  for  Henry  Bell,  and  are  to  be 
sold  at  his  shop  within  Bishops-gate.    i6i  3.    4to. 

A,  4  leaves ;  a,  4  leaves ;  B — F  in  fours. 

The  Laudable  Life,  And   Deplorable  Death,  of  our  late 


peerlesse  Prince  Henry.  Briefly  represented.  Together,  with  some 
other  Poemes,  in  honor  both  of  our  most  gracious  Soueraigne 
King  lames  his  auspicious  entrie  to  this  Crowne,  and  also  of  his 
most  hopefuU  Children,  Prince  Charles  and  Princesse  Elizabeths 
happie  entrie  into  this  world.     By  I.  M.  Master  of  Artes.    London 


940  MA X  WELL— MA  Y. 

Printed  by  Ediv :  Alldejor  Thomas  P aider,  dwelling  neere  the  Roy  all 
Excliange,  at  t/ie  signe  of  the  Cats  and  parr  at.    1 6 1 2.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — F  in  fours. 

In  verse.  Dedicated  in  two  six-line  stanzas  "To  ovr  late  Peerlesse  Prince 
Henries  deere  Brother  and  Sister,  Prince  Charles  and  Princesse  Elizabeth  Infants 
of  Albion,  of  greatest  hope,  all  happinesse." 

MAXWELL,  James.  Carolanna,  That  is  to  say,  a  Poeme  in  Hon- 
ovr  of  ovr  King,  Charles-lames,  Qveene  Anne,  and  Prince  Charles : 
But  principally  in  honour  of  the  immortall  memory  of  our  late  noble 
&  good  Oueene  of  Albion  and  Vnion,  herein  celebrated  vnder  the 
names  of  Dianna  and  Cimbrina,  by  allusion  vnto  her  Princelie  Name 
and  Nation.  Begun  to  be  penned  on  her  fatall  day  of  Mars  the  second 
of  March  last ;  ended  on  the  Octaue,  the  next  Mars  day :  and  now 
published  to  summon  all  rankcs  and  degrees  in  Christendome,  espe- 
cially in  the  Northerne  Kingdomes,  of  Britannic,  Denmark,  &  Ger- 
manic, to  celebrate  her  anniuersarie  on  the  next  second  day  of  March, 
and  to  applaud  her  third  Coronation  to  be  in  heauen,  at  the  next  fes- 
tiuall  time  of  S.  lames  and  S.  Anne,  and  all  Britanes  to  solemnize  the 
memoriall  thereof  on  S.  Annes  day  euery  yeare  for  euer.  By  lames 
Anne-son  Antiquarie  and  Maister  of  Arts.  Imprinted  at  Londoti  by 
Edw:  All-de.    [1619.]    4to. 

A — F  in  fours. 

Chiefly  in  verse.  At  sig.  E  appears:  "Maxwells  May  or  Spring  Dittie:  Sung 
by  the  Nightingales  and  other  sweet  Birdes  of  St.  lames ....",  which  is  followed 
by  "  Maxwells  Charliade.  Or  tenne  Renowned  Charlses  by  him  celebrated  .  .  .  ." 
"James  Anne-Son"  is  a  nom  dc  plume  formed  out  of  the  subject. 

MAXWELL,  Sir  W.  Stirling.  The  Chief  Victories  of  the 
Emperor  Charles  the  Fifth.  Designed  by  Martin  Heemskerck  in 
M.  D.  LV.  And  now  Illustrated  with  Portraits,  Prints,  and  Notes. 
By  Sir  William  Stirling  Maxwell  Bart.  Privately  printed.  1870. 
Folio. 

Presentation  copy  from  the  author. 

The  Procession  of  Pope  Clement  VIL  and   the  Emperor 

Charles  V.  after  the  Coronation  at  Bologna  on  the  24""  February 
MD.XXX.    Designed  and  engraved  by  Nicolas  Hogenberg  and  now 
reproduced  in  facsimile  with  an  Historical  Introduction.    Edinburgh. 
1875.    Folio.    Portraits  of  the  Pope  and  Emperor,  Coats  of  Arms,  &=€. 
Only  two  hundred  and  fifty  copies  printed. 

MAY,  Edward.  Epigrams  Divine  and  Morall.  By  Edw.  May, 
Gent.  [Quotation  from  Claudian.]  London:  Printed  by  I.  B.for  John 
Groue,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop,  in  Chancery-Lane,  neere  the 
Rouiles,  ouer  against  the  Suppeny-Office.  1633.  Sm.  8vo.  The  edges 
uncut.    O.  M. 


MA  Y—MA  YERBER  G. 


941 


A,  2  leaves,  the  first  blank ;  B — F  6  in  eights. 

The  present  copy  was  described  in  a  sale  catalo^e  in  1856  as  unique  ;  but 
another  is  at  Sion  College,  and  a  third,  formerly  in  Heber's  library  (part  iv.,  No. 
15 10),  is  now  in  the  British  Museum.  The  author  was  a  medical  man,  and  at  the 
institution  of  the  famous  Aluseum  Minerva,  was  appointed  to  the  chair  of  philo- 
sophy and  physic. 

MAY,  Edward.  A  most  certaine  and  trve  Relation  of  a  Strange 
Monster  or  Serpent  Found  in  the  left  Ventricle  of  the  heart  of  lohn 
Pennant,  Gentleman,  of  the  age  of  21.  yeares.  By  Edward  May  Doctor 
of  Philosophy  and  Physick,  and  professor  Elect  of  them,  in  the  Colledge 
of  the  Academy  of  Noble-men,  called  the  Musaeum  Mineruae  :  Physi- 
tian  also  extraordinary  unto  her  most  Sacred  Majesty,  Queen  of  Great 
Brittany,  &c.  London.  Printed  by  George  Miller,  MDCXXXIX.  4to. 
A — F  in  fours.    With  a  folding  woodcut,  and  a  woodcut  which  counts  as  A  4. 

MAY,  Thomas.  The  Reigne  Of  King  Henry  the  Second.  Written 
in  Seaven  Bookes.  By  his  Majestis  Command.  [Quotation  from  Au- 
sonius.]  London,  Printed  by  A.  AL  for  Benjamin  Fisher,  dwelling  in 
Aldersgate-streete  at  the  signe  of  the  Talbot.    1633.    Sm.  Svo.   Portrait. 

A,  2  leaves ;  B — O  in  eights,  M  8,  O  2,  and  O  8  blank. 
Dedicated  to  the  King.     In  verse,  with  a  prose  continuation. 

The  Victorious  Reigne  of  King  Edward  the  Third.    Written 


in  seven  Bookes.  By  his  Majesties  Command.  Tu  mihi,  tu  Pallas, 
Ccesariana  veni.  Mart.  London :  Printed  for  T.  Walkley,  and  B. 
Fisher,  and  are  to  bee  sold  at  the  signe  of  the  Talbot,  without  Alder sgate. 
1635.    Sm.  Svo.   Portrait. 

A — O  2  in  eights,  including  the  portrait  of  the  King.     In  verse. 

The  History  of  the  Parliament  Of  England  :  Which  began 


November  the  third,  M.  DC.  XL.  With  a  short  and  necessary  view  of 
some  precedent  yeares.  Written  by  Thomas  May  Esquire,  Secretary 
for  the  Parliament.  Published  by  Authority.  Tempora  inntantnr. 
Miitantur  Homines.  Veritas  eadem  manet.  Imprinted  at  London  by 
Moses  Bell  for,  George  Thomason,  at  the  Signe  of  the  Rose  and  Crown 
in  St.  Pauls  Church  Yard,  M.  DC.  XL  VII.    Folio. 

The  Old   Couple.     A   Comedy.     By   Thomas   May,    Esq  ; 


London,  Printed  by  J.  Cottrel,  for  Samuel  Speed,  at  the  signe  of  the 
Printing-press  in  S.  Pauls  Church-yard.     1658.    4to.     The  edges  uncut. 

A — G  2  in  fours. 

MAYERBERG.  Iter  in  Moschoviam  Augustini  Liberi  Baronis  de 
Mayerberg  .  .  .  .  et  Horatii  Gulielmi  Caluuccii,  .  .  .  .  ab  Augustis- 
simo  Romanorum  Imperatore  Leopold©,  ad  Tzarem  et  Magnum  Du- 


942  MA  YHE  W—MA  YNE. 

cem  Alexium  Mihalowicz,  Anno  M.DC.LXI.  Ablegatorum.  Descriptum 
ab  ipso  Augustino  Libera  Barone  de  Mayerberg,  cum  Statutis  Mos- 
chouiticis  ex  Russico  in  Latinum  idioma  ab  eodem  translatis.  [Sine 
loco  aut  anno.    Circa  1670.]    Folio.    R. 

A — Nnn  in  twos. 

MAYHEW,  Matthew.  The  Conquests  and  Triumphs  of  Grace : 
Being  a  Brief  Narrative  of  the  Success  which  the  Gospel  hath  had 
among  the  Indians  of  Martha's  Vineyard  (and  the  Places  adjacent)  in 
New-England.  With  some  Remarkable  Curiosities,  concerning  the 
Numbers,  the  Customs,  and  the  present  Circumstances  of  the  Indians 
on  that  Island.  Further  Explaining  and  Confirming  the  Account 
given  of  these  Matters,  by  Mr.  Cotton  Mather,  in  the  Life  of  the 
Renowned  Mr.  John  Eliott  attested  by  the  Reverend  Mr.  Nath. 
Mather  and  others.  Whereto  is  added  an  Account  concerning  the 
Present  State  of  Christianity  among  the  Indians  in  other  Parts  of 
New-England  :  Expressed  in  the  Letters  of  several  Worthy  Persons, 
best  acquainted  therewithal.  London,  Printed  for  Nath.  Hillcr  at  the 
Princes  Arms  in  Leaden-hall-strcct,  over  against  St.  Mary  Axe,  1695. 
Sm.  8vo.    The  edges  uncut. 

A — E  3  in  eights. 

With  a  dedication  to  Sir  William  Phipps,  Governor  of  Massachusetts,  the  Lieu- 
tenant-Governor, &c.,  by  the  author,  dated  from  Martha's  Vineyard,  June  18,  1694, 
and  a  preface  by  Nathaniel  Mather. 

MAYHEW,  Thomas.    Upon  the  Joyfull  and  Welcome  Return  of 

His  Sacred  Majestic,  Charles  the  Second, To  his  due  and 

indubitate  Right  of  Government,  over  these  His  Majestie's  Kingdoms 
and  Dominions.  A  Panegyrick.  ...  By  Tho.  Mayhew,  Gent.  London, 
Printed  for  A  bcl  Roper,  at  the  Sun  in  Fleet-street  over  against  St.  Dun- 
stans  Church.    1660.    4to. 

Eight  leaves.    In  verse.     From  Mr.  George  Smith's  collection. 

MAYNE,  Jasper.  The  Citye  Match.  A  Comoedye.  Presented 
to  the  King  and  Qveene  at  White-Hall.  Acted  since  at  Black-Friers 
by  His  Maiesties  Servants.  [Quotation  from  Yioxz.cG.  De  Arte  Poet^ 
Oxford,  Printed  by  I^eonard  Lichfield,  Printer  to  the  University.  Anno 
Dom.  M.DC.XXXIX.    Folio. 

First  edition.     A — S,  2  leaves  each. 

The  Amorovs  Warre.     A  Tragi-Comoedy Printed  in 

the  Ycare  1648.     4to. 

A — L  3  in  fours. 

Published  anonymously  in  this  first  edition,  but  reprinted  with  the  "  City  Match," 
4to,  165S,  and  8vo,  1659,  with  the  author's  name.     From  the  Roxburghe  collection. 


MA  Z  Z  ONE— ME  G. 


943 


MAZZONE.  Canto  [Tenore,  Alto,  Basso  e  Quinto]  di  Don  Marco 
Antonio  Mazzone  da  Miglionico,  II  primo  Libro  de  Madrigali  a  cinque 
voci,  Nuouamente  da  lui  composti,  &  datti  in  luce.  In  Vinegia,  appresso 
Girolaino  Scotto.    M.D.LXIX.     5  parts  in  i  vol.    4to.    G.  M. 

This  writer  was  unknown  to  Fdtis.  The  dedication  is  addressed  to  "  II  Signor 
Thomaso  Salemitano,  Dignissimo  Presidente  del  Sacro  consigho  per  sua  Maesta 
nel  Regno  di  Napoli,"  and  is  dated  "  Di  Venetia  il  di  10  di  Settembre.  1569." 

MEAGHER,  T.  Querimoniae  in  Ivctvosvm  navfragivm  obitvmqve 
lacobi  Bvtler,  Domini  de  Grylagh,  filii  domini  Baronis  de  Donboyn. 
....  Lovanii,  Typis  Henrici  Hastenii.    1620.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

t,  8  leaves  ;  ft,  4  leaves. 

MEDE,  Joseph.  The  Works  of  the  Pious  and  profoundly  learned 
Joseph  Mede,  B.D.  sometime  Fellow  of  Christ's  Colledge  in  Cam- 
bridge. Corrected  and  Enlarged  according  to  the  Author's  own 
Manuscripts.    London  1672  .  .  .  Folio. 

MEDICI.  Poesie  Volgari,  nvovamente  stampate,  di  Lorenzo  de' 
Medici,  che  fu  padre  di  Papa  Leone :  Col  commento  del  medesimo 

sopra  alcuni  de'  suoi  sonetti [Colophon.]  In  Vinegia,  in  casa  de' 

Figlivoli  di  Aide,  M.D.LIIII.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

This  copy  has  the  eight  leaves  to  sheet  O,  four  of  which  are  frequently  wanting. 

MEDINA,  Pedro  de.  Libro  d'  gradezas  y  cosas  memorables  de 
Espaiia.  [Colophon.]  ....  Fiie  exaniinado  por  mddado  delos  muy  Re- 
uerendos  Senores  Inquisidores  de  Seiiilla  i  impresso  co  sii  licecia  i  la 
diclia  ciudad :  e  casa  d'  dominico  de  Robertis  q  santagl^ia  aya.  Acabose 
a  ocho  de  agosto  afio  de.  M.DjcHx.    Folio.     Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  fohos  i.-clxxx\'i.  The  upper  part  of  the  title 
is  occupied  by  a  woodcut  map  of  Spain. 

Senor  Salva  says  that  he  believes  this  to  be  the  first  edition,  and  that  the 
edition  of  1543  mentioned  by  Antonio  does  not  really  exist. 

MEDOWS,  Sir  Philip.  Observations  concerning  the  Dominion 
and  Sovereignty  of  the  Seas  :  Being  an  Abstract  of  the  Marine  Affairs 
of  England.    In  tlie  Savoy:  Printed  by  Edzu.  Jones,  ....  16S9.  4to. 

A — H  in  fours. 

MEG  OF  HEREFORDSHIRE.  Old  Meg  of  Hereford-shire,  for 
a  Mayd-Marian  :  And  Hereford  Towne  for  a  Morris-daunce.  Or, 
Twelve  Morris-dancers  in  Hereford-shire,  of  twelue  hundred  yeares 
old.  Grata  Senectus  homini  parilis  luuentce.  London  Printed  for  lohn 
Budge,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  sJwp,  at  the  great  South  doore  of  Paules. 
1609.    4to.    R.    Black  letter. 


944  ME  G—MEINRAD  US. 

A — C  in  fours,  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

In  prose  and  verse.  No  other  copy  of  this  tract  is  known.  From  Bright's  and 
Daniel's  collections.  There  is  a  reprint  in  "  Miscellanea  Antiqua  Anglicana,"  1816, 
in  the  advertisement  to  which  is  given  an  account  of  the  piece. 

Dedicated  "  To  that  Renowned  0.x-leach,  old  Hall,  Taborer  of  Herefordshire, 
and  to  his  most  inuincible  Weather-beaten  Nutbrowne  Taber,  being  alreadie  old 
and  sound,  threescore  yeares  and  upward."    There  is  no  indication  of  authorship. 

MEG  OF  WESTMINSTER.  The  Life  of  Long  Meg  of  West- 
minster :  Containing  the  mad  merry  prankes  shee  played  in  her  life 
time,  not  onely  in  performing  sundry  Quarrels  with  diuers  Ruffians 
about  London  :  But  also  how  Valiantly  she  behaued  her  selfe  in  the 
Warres  of  Bolloingne.  London  :  Printed  for  Robert  Bird,  and  are  to 
be  sold  at  his  shop  in  St.  Laurence  lane,  at  the  signe  of  the  Bible.  1635. 
4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

A — E  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

From  the  JoUey  and  Daniel  collections.  This  is  the  third  known  edition,  having 
been  preceded  by  others  in  1582  and  1620;  but  there  can  be  little  doubt  that 
there  was  more  than  one  impression  of  which  we  have  no  present  trace.  The  only 
known  copy  of  the  edition  of  1620  is  in  a  volume  of  tracts  formerly  in  the  Hastings 
collection  at  Donnington. 

MEGGEN.      lodoci    a    Meggen    Patricii    Lvcerini    Peregrinatio 

Hierosolymitana.    Dilingce  Exciidebat  Joannes  Mayer.   M.D.LXXX. 

Sm.  8vo.    BLK.  M. 

Pp.  1-246,  including  title. 

MEGISERUS,  HiERON.  Septentrio  Novantiquus,  oder  die  Newe 
Nortwelt.  Das  ist :  griindliche  vnd  warhaffte  Beschreibung  aller  der 
Mitternachtigen  vnd  Nortwerts  gelegenen  Landen  vnd  Insulen,  so 
unsern  Vorfahren  vnd  den  alten  Weltbeschreibern  gantzlich  vnbekandt 
gewesen.    Leipzig.    16 13.    8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves;  pp.  1-473  >  register,  latin  verses,  and  colo- 
phon, 18  leaves. 

MEICHSNER,  Dan.     Thesaurus    Sapientiae    Civilis,   sive  Vitae 

Hvmanae  ac  Virtutum  et  Vitiorum  Theatrum Francofvrti  Anno 

M.Dcjxxvi.    Sm.  8vo.    Plates.    R.  M. 

A — G  in  eights.  The  two  last  leaves  are  blank,  and  G  5  and  6  bear  only  du- 
plicate impressions  of  shields. 

This  pretty  volume  of  emblems  is  not  described  by  Brunet. 

MEINRADUS.   Incipit  passio  sancti  Meynrhadi  martyris  et  here- 
mite. 
[Colophon.] 

Ad  lectorem.    S.  Brant. 
Fac  dens  ob  ineritu  Meynradi  martyris :  atf 
Syliiicole:  regni premia  adire  tui. 


MEL  ANCHTHON.  945 

Illiiis  in  laudein,  precoma  digna  relatu 
Litterulis pressit  iani  basilea  twins. 
Hujic  sibi  susccpit  Fiirter  Michakelcp  labore 
Me  duce:  p  nobis  vir  venerande  roga. 
xii.  kal'.  octobris  anno  \c.  xcvi, 
4to.    Woodcuts,    o.  M. 

This  edition  of  the  life  of  St.  Meynrad  is  not  described  by  Brunei,  though  he 
mentions  the  unique  block-book  of  the  same  subject  which  is  in  the  Royal  Library 
at  Munich,  and  which  is  fully  described  by  Dr.  Dibdin  in  his  "  Bibliographical 
Tour,"  vol.  iii.,  p.  285.  The  present  edition  consists  of  fourteen  leaves  with  twenty 
woodcuts,  one  of  which  is  a  dupUcate,  besides  the  printer's  mark  above  the 
colophon. 

MELANCHTHON,  P.  Loci  communes  Rerum  Theologicarum 
sev  Hypotyposes  Theologicae.    WittembergcB  1521.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — S  iii  in  eights. 

First  edition.  Brunet  describes  it  as  being  in  quarto,  but  that  is  clearly  a 
mistake. 

So  highly  did  Von  der  Hardt  esteem  the  importance  of  this  edition  of  the  "  Loci 
Communes,"  as  exhibiting  the  state  of  the  reformed  doctrines  at  the  time  of  its 
publication,  and  so  great  was  its  rarity,  that  he  reprinted  it  entire  in  his  "  Historia 
Litteraria  Reformation  is,"  and  says:"Videre  jam  suis  oculis  nostra  potest  ffitas, 
quod  optavit  Huterus  tam  impense,  qua  fuerit  conditio  doctrine  Evangelicse  in 
Reformationis  exordio,  quoad  omnia  fidei  capita."  L.  Hutter,  in  his  "  Loci  Theo- 
logici,"  published  in  161 9,  believed  this  first  edition  was  totally  lost:  "der  diese 
Ausgabe  fiir  ganzlich  verloren  gehalten  hat."  See  "  Baumgarten's  Nachrichten." — 
Note  by  Mr.  C.  J.  Stewart. 

Vrsach  Warumb  die  Stende,  so  der  Augspurgisclien  Confession 

anhangen,  Christliche  leer  erstlich  angenommen,  vnnd  endtlich  dabey 

zuuerharren  gedencken M.D.XLVI.    [Colophon.]    Getruckt  zu 

Augspiirg durch  Valentyn  Otiunar.    4to.     The  edges  uncut. 

A — G  ii  in  fours. 

Oratio  de  tribus  farinje  satis,  habita  in  renunciatione  gradus 

Magisterii  philosophici.    [i'. /.]     1548.    Sm.  Svo.    R.  M. 

Twelve  leaves. 

Disputatio   de    Invocatione.    M.D.XLIX Witebergce. 

Sm.  Svo.    R.  M. 

Eight  leaves. 

Disputatio  de  lubileo.    Witeberga.    1549.    Sm.  Svo.    BL.  M. 

Eight  leaves. 

De  origine  Imperii  Turcorum,  eorumque  administratione  & 

disciplina,  brevia  qujedam  capita  notationis  loco  collecta.  Cut  libellus 
de  Turcorum  moribus,  collectus   a  Earth.  Gcorgieuiz,   adiectus  est. 

Witebergce.    1560.    Sm.  Svo. 

S  S 


946  MELANCHTHON—MELIADUS. 

MELANCHTHON,  P.  Epigrammata  selectiora,  formulis  prae- 
cum,  historiis,  paraphrasi  dictorum  diuinorum,  et  sententiis  grauissimis 
maxime  insignia.   Francofurti.    1583.   4to.    Woodcuts  by  J ost  Amman. 

BR.  M. 
Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-188  ;  table,  4  leaves  ;  colophon,  i  leaf. 

MELBANCKE,  Brian.  Philotimus.  The  Warre  betwixt  Nature 
and  Fortune.  Compiled  by  Brian  Melbancke  Student  in  Graies  Inne. 
Palladi.  Fortuna  virtntis  favmla.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Roger 
Warde,  dwelling  ncere  vnto  Holborne  Conduit  at  the  Signe  of  the  Talbot. 
1583.    4to.    Black  letter.    R. 

A— Ff  in  fours,  besides  title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves. 

The  dedication  to  Philip,  Earl  of  Arundel,  is  followed  by  a  second  to  the  Students 
of  the  Inns  of  Court  and  Chancery,  and  of  the  University  of  Cambridge,  after 
which  come  some  laudatory  verses  by  George  Wastnes  Esquire,  four  stanzas  of  four 
lines  each. 

MELIADUS.  Histoire  des  hauts  et  chevalereux  faicts  d'armes, 
du  tes-pvissant  et  tes-magnanime  et  plus  que  victorieux  prince  Melia- 
dus,  dit  le  Cheualier  de  la  Croix,  fils  vnique  de  Maximian  Empereur 

des  Allemaignes.  .  .  .  A   Paris,  par  Nicolas  Botifons. 1584. 

4to.    R.  M. 

Bninet  describes  this  edition  as  consisting  of  ninety-six  leaves.  It  has  really 
only  fifty-two  leaves.  The  pagination  is  1-94,  sigs.  A — N  in  fours.  The  pagination 
is  necessarily  very  incorrect. 

MELIADUS  DE  LEONNOYS.  C  Ou  present  Volume  sont 
contenus  les  nobles  faictz  darmes  du  vaillant  roy  Meliadus  de  Leonnoys : 
Ensemble  plusieurs  autres  nobles  proesses  de  Cheualerie,  faictes  tant 
par  le  roy  Artus,  Palamedes,  le  Morhoult  dirlande,  le  bon  cheualier 
sas  paour,  Galehault  le  brun,  Segurades,  Galaad  que  autres  bos  cheua- 
liers  estas  au  temps  dudit  roy  Meliadus  Histoire  singuliere  et  recrea- 
tiue,  nouuellement  Imprimee  a  Paris.  C  Auec  priuilege  du  Roy  nostre 
sire.  C  On  Ics  vend  a  Paris  en  la  grand  salle  du  Palais  an  premier 
pillier  en  la  boutique  de  Galliot  du  Pre  marchant  Libraire  iure  de  Inni- 
uersite.  [Colophon.]  Ce  present  volume  des  faitz  &  gestes  du  noble  roy 
Meliadus  de  Leonnoys  fut  acheue  dimprimer  a  Paris  le.  xxif.  iour  du 
moys  de  Nouembre.  Lan  mil  cinq  cens.xxviii.   Folio.  Black  letter.   R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  A— Z  in  sixes  ;  sig.  &,  6  leaves ;  AA — HH 
in  sixes  ;  II,  8  leaves,  the  last  blank. 

The  first  edition.     From  the  library  of  Mr.  R.  S.  Turner. 

Ou  present  Volume  sont  contenus  les  nobles  faictz  darmes  du 


vaillant  roy  Meliadus  de  Leonnoys Nouuellemet  Imprimee 

a  Paris [Colophon.] acheue  dimprimer  a  Paris  le  .xx . 

iour  du  moy  .  de  Mars  .  Lan  mil  cinq  cens  .  xxxii.    Folio.    Black  letter. 
BL.  M. 


MELL—MEMOIRES.  947 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  folios  i.-ccxxxii. 

Second  edition.     On  the  last  leaf  is  the  autograph  of  Guyon  de  Sardiere. 

MELL,  George.  A  proper  New  balad  of  the  Bryber  Gehesie. 
Taken  out  of  the  fourth  booke  of  Kinges  the  v.  Chapter.  To  the  tune 
of  Kjmge  Salomon.  [At  the  end.]  Finis  q'.  George  Mell.  [Colophon.] 
Imprinted  at  London  in  Fletcstrcate  beneath  the  Conduit,  at  tlie  signe  of 
S.  John  Evangelist,  by  Tliomas  Colwell.  \ii,  d.]  A  Broadside.  Black 
letter. 

Eleven  stanzas  of  eight  lines  each. 

Reprinted  in  "  Ancient  Ballads,"  &c.,  1S67.     No  other  copy  is  known. 

MELLYS,  John,  of  Norwich.  The  true  description  of  two  mon- 
sterous  child reii  ....  borne  in  the  parish  of  Swanburne  inBuckyng- 
ham  shyre,  the  iiii.  of  Aprill.  Anno  Domini.  1566  ....  [At  the  end.] 
Finis  q'  lohn  Mellys  Nor.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  London  by 
Alexander  Lacy,  for  William  Lewes:  dwellyng  in  Cow  lane  abone 
Holbornc  cnndit,  oner  against  the  signe  of  the  Plough.  A  Broadside. 
Black  letter. 

Twenty-four  stanzas  of  four  lines,  in  three  columns,  surmounted  by  a  woodcut  of 
the  children. 

The  only  copy  known.     Reprinted  in  "Ancient  Ballads,"  &c.,  1867. 

MELTON,  John.  A  Sixe-folde  Politician.  Together  with  a  Sixe- 
folde  Precept  of  Policy.  London  Printed  by  E.  A.  for  lohn  Busby,  and 
are  to  be  solde  at  his  Shop  in  Saint  Dunstans  Churchyard.  1609.  Sm. 
8vo.    R. 

A,  6  leaves  ;  B — R  2  in  eights,  K  3  and  N  i  being  blanks. 

Following  the  title  occurs  an  epistle  from  "  Philodespotvs  to  his  Nasarchus," 
after  which  comes  the  preface  of  the  author  to  the  reader,  and  commendatory  lines 
by  Jo.  Davis  Gent.,  J.  S.,  and  T.  P.     The  last  leaf  has  only  the  errata. 

MELVILL,  Elizabeth.  A  Godly  Dream,  complyed  [«V]  by 
Elizabeth  Melvill,  Lady  Culross  younger.  At  the  request  of  a  Friend. 
Introito  per  angustam  portam,  nam  lata  est  via  qucB  ducit  ad  interitmn. 
Glasgow,  Printed  by  Robert  Sanders,  One  of  His  Majesties  Printers. 
1698.     Sm.  Svo.    Black  letter.     The  edges  uncut. 

Eight  leaves. 
'     Inverse.     The  only  copy  known  of  this  edition.     The  first  appeared  in  1603. 

MEMOIRES  touchant  retablisscment  d'une  mission  chrestienne 
dans  le  troisieme  monde,  autrement  appell6  la  terre  Australe,  Meri- 
dionale,  Antartique,  &  Inconnue.  A  Paris,  cliez  Claude  Cramoisy. 
1663.     Svo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  including  errata,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-215  ;  ^  map,  "Typus 
Orbis  terrarum." 

The  country  intended  by  "  la  tcrre  Australe"  is  the  region  below  Magellan's 
Straits. 


948  MEMOIRS— MENA. 

MEMOIRS  of  the  Antiquities  of  Great-Brittain,  Relating  to  the 
Reformation,  &c.  Containing  The  first  Institution  of  the  Order  of 
the  Grey-Friers,  with  the  Life  of  St.  Francis :  Some  Remarks  upon 
Wolsey,  Cromwel,  and  the  holy  Maid  of  Kent  ;  with  the  Occasion  of 
the  Dissolution  of  the  Franciscan  Monasteries.  Of  several  eminent 
Fryers,  particularly  Roger  Bacon,  and  Thomas  Bungey,  two  supposed 
Conjurers.  Some  curious  Observations  relating  to  fair  Rosamund,  and 
the  Nunnery  of  Godstowe,  &c.  An  Account  of  Church-Plate,  Money, 
and  Jewels,  Images,  &c.  deliver'd  to  K.  Henry,  taken  from  the  Bod- 
leian library.  The  D.  of  Buckinghom's  Treason  supported  by  a  Car- 
thusian Monk,  his  End,  with  the  manner  of  Degrading  a  Knight  of 
the  Garter.  K.  Henry  the  8th's  Oration  to  reform  the  Clergy  and 
Laity  ;  with  Sir  Thomas  Moor's  Thoughts  about  the  State  of  Religion, 
&c.  To  which  is  prefix'd  a  Preface,  with  some  Remarks  on  Mr. 
Stevens's  first  Additional  Volume  to  Sir  William  Dugdale's  Monas- 
tichon  Anglicanum,  in  Defence  of  the  late  Bishop  Burnet.  London, 
Printed  and  Sold  by  H.  Tracy,  at  tJie  Three  Bibles  on  London  Bridge- 
1723.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — O  in  sixes,  besides  the  title  and  five  plates  engraved  by  Nicholls.  There  is 
no  sig.  F.  The  plates  are  facing  the  title,  and  at  pp.  i,  4,  44,  91.  That  at  p.  44  is  a 
view  of  Godstow  Nunnery,  from  a  survey  taken  in  1718. 

MENA,  Juan  DE.  Copilacio  de  todas  las  obras  del  Famosissimo 
poeta  Juan  de  mena  :  conuiene  saber  las  ccc.  c6  otras  xxiiij  coplas  y 

su  glosa [Colophon.]    Fiieron    empremidas  las    trezictas   del 

favioso  poeta  Juan  de  Mena  enla  miiy  noble    Villa  de  Valledolid  eti 
nuestra  senora  de prado  por  jfiui  de  villaqrd.     Ana  de.  M.  D.y.  xxx y 

vj.  aiios.a.j.  d'  junio.    La  coronaciS con  otras  Coplas 

[Colophon.]  FiLe  impremida  la  presente  obra  .  .  .  en  .  .  .  ,  Valladolid 
en  nuestra  senora  de  Prado  por  Juan  de  villaqnira  .  .  .  .  Afio  .  .  .  d 
mil  %  quietos  1  treynta  y  seys  ailos.    Folio.    Black  letter.    R. 

Folios  i.-ciiii.,  including  the  title,  and  i.-xxvi.,  including  a  second  title. 

Copilacion  d'  todas  las  obras  del  Famosissimo  poeta  Jua  de 

mena : [Colophon.]  Fiie  impressa  la  presente  obra  en 

Toledo  eti  casa  de  Fernando  de  sancta  catalina  defunto  que  dios  aya. 
Acabose  a  quinze  dias  del  mes  de  Diziembre.  Aflo  del  nacimiento  de 
nuestro  saliiador  Jesu  christo.  Del  mil  x  quinientos  1  qnarcnta  y  sicte 
Afios.    Folio.    G.  M. 

Folios  i.-ciiij.,  including  the  title,  and  i.-xxvi.,  including  a  second  title. 


Las  Trezientas  d'  el  famosissimo  Poeta  Ivan  deMena.glosadas 

por  Fernan  Nufiez,  Comendador  dela  orden  de  Sanctiago.  Otras 
XXIIII.  Coplas  suyas,  con  su  glosa.  La  Coronacion,  compuesta  y 
glosada  por  el  dicho  luan  de  Mena.    Tratado  de  vicios  y  virtudes,  con 


MENAGE— MENEWE.  949 

otras  Cartas  y  Coplas,  y  Canciones  suyas En  Anvers,  En 

casa  dc  luan  Steelsio.    M.  D.  LII.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  1 6  leaves  ;  pp.  1-830;  table,  17  leaves. 

MENAGE,  G.  Dictionnaire  Etymologique  de  la  Langue  Fran^oise, 
Avec  les  Origines  Francoises  de  M.  de  Caseneuve,  les  Additions  du  R. 
P.  Jacob,  &  de  M.  Simon  de  Valhebert,  le  Discours  du  R.  P.  Besnier 
sur  la  Science  des  Etymologies,  &  le  Vocabulaire  Hagiologique  de  M. 
I'Abbe  Chastelain Paris.    1752.    2  vols.    Folio.    Large  paper. 

MENANDER.  Menandri  et  Philemonis  Reliquia;,  Gr.  et  Lat,  cum 
notis  H.  Grotii  et  J.  Clerici.   Ainst.     1709.    8vo. 

MENDO9A,  Don  Bernardino  de.  Theoriqve  and  Practise  of 
Warre.  Written  to  Don  Philip  Prince  of  Castil  ....  Translated  out 
of  the  Castilian  tonge  into  Englishe,  by  S'  Edvarde  Hoby  Knight. 
Directed  to  S''  George  Carew  Knight.  \_No  place  or  printer's  name.'] 
1597.    4to.    R. 

A — Y  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Dedicated  in  Spanish  by  the  translator  to  Sir  G.  Carew.  It  seems  probable 
that  this  volume  was  privately  printed. 

MENEWE,  Gracious.    A  confutacion  of  that  Popishe  and  Anti- 

christian  doctryne,  whiche  mainteineth  y  ministracyon  and  receiuing 

of  the  sacrament  vnder  one  kind,   made  Dialogewise  betwene  the 

Prieste  and  the   Prentyse  by  Gracyous   Menewe.     [Quotation    from 

Matth.  26.]      {^No  place,  printer's  name,  or  date.l     Sm.sqr.8vo.    Black 

letter. 

A — F  in  eights. 

A  plaine  subuersyon   or  turnyng  vp  syde  down  of  all  the 

argumentes,  that  the  Pope  catholykes  can  make  for  the  maintenaunce 
of  auricular  confession,  with  a  moste  wholsome  doctryne  touchyng  the 
due  obedience,  that  we  owe  vnto  ciuill  magistrates,  made  dialogue 
wyse  betwene  the  Prentyse  and  the  Priest  by  Gracyous  Menewe. 
[Quotation  from  Psalm  31.]  {^No  place, printer  s  name,  or  date.]  Sm.  sqr. 
8vo.  Black  letter. 

A — F  in  eights. 

A  godlye  and   learned  treatise,  wherin  is  proued   the  true 

iustification  of  a  Christian  manne  to  come  frely  of  the  mercy  of  god  in 
Christ,  without  the  deseruyng  of  man  by  his  merites :  and  also  how 
good  workes  oughte  to  bee  done  &  what  be  true  good  works  indede. 
Wherunto  is  ioyned  a  coference  betwene  the  law  and  the  gospel,  very 

profitable  for  al  men  to  exercise  themselues  therin \_No  place, 

printer  s  name,  or  date.]    Sm.  sqr.  8vo.    Black  letter. 


950  MENIUS—MENSA. 

s:^,  8  leaves,  with  the  first  title,  preface,  and  table  ;  A— L  in  eights,  including  a 

second  title. 

The  treatise  itself  concludes  on  I  v,  and  on  the  top  of  the  following  leaf,  recto, 
occurs  a  headline  :  "  A  mirrour  or  glasse/  wheryn  al  men  may  behold  their  own 
condemn acyon  by  the  lawe  of  god:  With  a  remedy  of  the  same,"  which  occupies 
the  rest  of  tlie  book. 

It  is  bound  up  with  the  two  tracts  described  above,  bearing  the  name  of  Gracious 
Menewe  as  the  author,  and  is  probably  from  the  same  pen.  The  name  is  doubtless 
a  fictitious  one.  The  printer  was  probably  Hugh  Singleton.  See  Herbert's  Ames, 
P-  1793- 

MENIUS,  Justus.  CEconomia  Christiana,  das  istvon  christlicher 
haushaltung.  Mit  einer  sclionen  Vorrhede  M.  Luther.  Wittemberg 
durch  Hans  Weis.    1530.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Fifty-six  leaves. 

MENNIS,  Sir  John,  and  James  SMITH.  Musariim  Dclicinc : 
or,  the  Muses  Recreation.  Conteining  Scucrall  Pieces  of  Poetique 
Wit.  The  second  Edition.  By  S'  J.  M.  and  Ja  :  S.  London,  Printed 
by  y.  G.  for  Henry  Heri'infftnan,  and  arc  to  he  sold  at  his  S/iop,  at  the 
Signe  of  tJie  Anchor  in  the  New  Exchange,  1656.  Sm.  8vo.  The  edges 
uncut.    BL.  M. 

A,  3  leaves,  B— H  3  in  eights. 

The  first  edition  was  in  1655.  In  the  address  to  this  reprint,  the  stationer 
mentions  that  the  book,  at  its  first  appearance,  was  so  favourably  received  as  to 
encourage  him  to  put  it  "  upon  this  second  adventure." 

MENSA  PHILOSOPHICA.  Incipit  tabula  in  librum  qui  dicif. 
Mensa  philosophica.    [Absgi/e  idlA  notd.]    4to. 

a,  6  leaves ;  b — f  in  eights  ;  g,  6  leaves  ;  h — 1  in  eights  ;  m  and  n  in  sixes. 
Twenty-six  and  twenty-seven  lines  to  the  page. 

Hain  places  this  edition  the  first  in  his  list.  He  attributes  it  to  the  press  of  Joh. 
Guldenschaaf  of  Cologne. 

In  hoc  Opuscule  tractatur  de  his  quibus  vtimur  in  mensa  De 


naturis  rerum  videlicet  cibi  t  potus.  De  questionibus  mensalibus 
varijs  ac  iociidis  quibus  in  mensa  recreamur.  deq,  oditionibus  eoif 
quib^  in  mesa  couersamur  ph'ice  hiiaritcni,  pccdit®.  qre  mcrito  appellat^ 
Mensa  Piiilosophica.  [Colophon.]  Presens  liber  (que  mensa}  philoso- 
phica vacant)  vnicui(p  perntilis  copendiose  ptractans.  in  priinis  quid  in 

cduiuijs  pro  cihis  &  potibus  sunicndu\  est. Inipressus  Colonic 

apud  predicatores.  Per  me  CorneliU  de  zyryckzee.  alme  vniversitatis 
Colonien.  suppositu  Anno  saint  is  nostre.  vi.ccccc.viij.  Mensis  vera 
Martij.  die.  xvij.    4to. 

Title  and  table,  4  leaves  ;  A,  C,  and  H  in  eights  ;  B,  D,  and  F  in  fours  ;  E  and 
G  in  sixes. 


MERCER.  951 

MERCER,  William.  Anglic-c  Speculum  :  Or  Englands  Looking- 
Glasse.  Divided  into  two  parts ;  The  first  part  containing  a  brief 
description  of  these  unnaturall  wars  in  England,  with  some  particular 
persons  fonientcrs  thereof  discovered  :  The  vast  cxpences  and  the  Glory 
of  the  famous  City  of  London,  in  maintaining  the  Protestant  Religion, 
and  their  priviledgcs  displayed.  The  second  Part  Consisting  of  severall 
Speeches,  Anagrams,  Epigrams,  Accrosticks  and  Sonnets.  By  C.[aptain] 
W.[illiam]  Mercer.  Scribiiniis  indocti,  doctiqiic  poieinata  passivi.  Lon- 
don. Printed  by  T.  Paine,  and  arc  to  be  sold  by  Lawrence  CItapman 
at  his  Shop  next  dore  to  the  Fountain  Tavern,  near  the  Savoy. 
1646.    4to. 

A — Q  in  fours,  not  including  a  portrait  of  Robert,  Earl  of  Essex,  by  W. 
Marsliall. 

The  copy  of  tills  book  described  in  part  v.  of  the  sale  cat:iIopic  of  Mr.  Corser's 
library  liad  two  additional  introductory  leaves.  That  copy  is  described  as  having 
also  two  other  additional  leaves,  one  containing  an  Epigram  addressed  to  "  John 
CambcU,  Earle  Lowdon,"  and  the  other,  verses  addressed  to  "Sir  A.  lohnstoun, 
Lord  Warestone,"  and  to  .Sir  Oliver  Fleming,  but  these  two  leaves  are  in  fact  the 
inset  of  sheet  Q,  and  were  only  misplaceil  in  Mr.  Corser's  copy.  The  present  was 
llcber's  copy,  and  had  been  Narcissus  Luttrcll's.  The  portrait,  which  belongs  to 
the  book,  has  been  added  since. 

Of  this  vohinic  some  account  may  be  found  in  the  "  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica," 
pp.  217-18,  and  in  Mr.  David  Lain^'s  recent  monograph  on  Mercer  and  his  works. 
There  were  two  title-pages  printed  to  the  book  in  1646,  one  as  above,  the  other  as 
given  in  the  Grenville  catalogue. 

A    VVelcom    in    a    Poem    To  His  Excellency  John   Lord 

Roberts  Baron  of  Truro,  Lord  Lieutenant  General,  and  General 
Governour  of  Ireland,  my  most  Noble  Patron,  &c.  [.f^'c]  At  his  Royal 
lintry  into  the  Castle  of  Dublin.    By  Lieut.  Coll.  W.  M.    Scria  mixta 

jocis.    Dublin,  Pri)iicd  by  jfosiah  Windsor,  by  Robert  Howes,  Bookseller 
in  Castle-strcct.     1669.    41.0.    G.  M. 

Title  and  A — E  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank.     In  verse. 

This  is  the  only  perfect  copy  known.  That  which  belonged  to  Mr.  Ilriglit 
wanted  the  end.  The  leaf  after  the  first  tille-p.^ge  has  some  vcr.ies  which  are 
headed  "  In  place  of  Ihe  Frontispiece,"  and  which  end  o'l  the  boUom  of  A  2  recto. 
On  the  reverse  of  that  leaf  occurs  the  following  curious  notice  : — 

"  Within  this  Welcome  will  appear 
Mistakes,  and  twenty  faults  I  fear. 
]!ut  I'll  excuse  no  crime  into  't 
Let  scribiinus  indocta  do  't." 

On  A  3  comes  a  second  title-page  :  "  Verbum  -Sapient,  Or  Mercers  Muse  making 
Melody,  in  a  Welcom  to  His  Excellency  John  Lord  Roberts  ....  [Quotation 
from  Ovid  with  two  translations.]     Uvblin  ....  16C9." 

The  Moderate  Caualier  or  The  Soldiers  Description  of  Ireland 

and  Of  the  Country  Disease,  With  Receipts  for  the  same. 


952  MERCHANT— MERCURIUS. 

From  Glocester  Siege  till  Arms  lay'd  downe 

In  Trewroe  fields,  I  for  the  Crowne 

Vnder  St.  George  March'd  up  and  down 

And  then  Sir, 

For  Ireland  came,  and  had  my  share 

Of  Blows  not  Lands  gain'd  in  that  warre 

But  God  defend  me  from  such  fare 
Again  Sir. 
[Quotations  from  Exodus  and  Deuteronomy.]     A  Book  fit  for  all 
Protestants  houses   in    Ireland.     Printed  [_at   Cork?'\     Anno.   Dom, 
MDCLXXV.    4to. 

A — I,  2  leaves  each. 

In  verse.  Dedicated  "To  the  Protestant  Nobility  Gentry  and  Soldiery  of  Ireland, 
but  more  especially  to  the  Woshipfull  the  Major  Aldermen,  Sherriffs,  Citizens  and 
Inhabitants  of  the  City  of  Corke."  in  verse,  after  which  come  some  Hnes  upon  the 
author's  intent  "  to  have  presented  three  dozen  of  these  Boks  to  the  Major  of  Corke 
and  his  guests  at  his  Feast,  when  he  first  comes  into  his  Office."  There  is  a  copy 
in  the  Grenville  collection,  but  not  more  than  three  are  known. 

MERCHANT'S  DAUGHTER.  The  first  part  of  the  Marchants 
Daughter  of  Bristow.  To  the  tune  of.  The  Maydens  ioy.  [ii]  The 
second  part [Colophon.]  Printed  at  London  for  William  Black- 
wall.    \_About  1600.]    Two  Broadsides.    Black  letter. 

Reprinted  in  "Ancient  Ballads,"  &c.,  1867.  These  are  the  earliest  known  im- 
pressions and  the  only  copies  on  record. 

MERCURIO  PERUANO  de  Historia,  Literatura,  y  Noticias  Piib- 
licas  que  da  d  luz  la  Sociedad  Academica  de  Amantes  de  Lima.  Y  en 

su  nombre  D.  Jacinto  Calero  y  Moreira Lnpreso  en  Lima :  en 

la  Imprenta  Real  de  los  Niflos  Hndrfanos.    179 1-5.    12  vols.    4to. 

MERCURIUS  ANGLICUS:  Or,  Englands  Merlin.  Prophetically 
fore-telling  the  Admirable  Events  and  Wonderful  Effects  that  shall 
befall  the  King  of  Scots,  the  Slates  of  Holland  .  .  .  With  the  most 
exact  Predictions  and  Monthly  Observations  touching  the  great  Rising 
of  the  European  Nations  against  England  .  .  .  Likewise,  the  Astro- 
[no]mical  Calculations  of  the  Eclipses  .  .  .  portending  a  great  Change 
of  Government  .  .  .  Collected  out  of  the  most  elaborate  Works  of 
Captain  George  Wharton  Esquire,  Mr.  William  Lillie,  Mr.  John  Booker, 
Mr.  Vincent  Wing,  aid  Mr.  Nicholas  Culpeper,  Students  in  Astrology 
and  physick.    London,  Printed  by  R.Wood,  xt'^^.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

MERCURIUS  LEPIDUS.   News  from  the  Lowe-Countreys.  Or, 

Podex  his  Encomium.     Held  out  for   publick   Information 

London:  printed  for  W.  N.    1652.   8vo. 

Eight  leaves.      A  humorous  publication  in  verse. 


MERCVRJUS—MERITON.  953 

MERCVRJUS  MELANCHOLICVS.  Or  Newes  from  West- 
minster, and  the  Head  quarters,  and  other  parts  of  this  Kingdome. 
From  Friday,  luly  21.  to  Friday  luly  28.  1648.  Printed  in  the  year e 
1648.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

In  prose,  but  with  some  verses  on  the  title.    This  is  marked  "  Numb,  i." 

MERCURIUS  VAPULANS,  Survaying  and  recording  the  choys- 
est  Actions  and  Results,  of  the  Parliament,  Synode,  Army,  City,  and 
Countrey.    {^No  place  or  printer  s  name?^    [1648.]    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

MERES,  Francis.  Wits  Common  Wealth.  The  Second  Part.  A 
Treasurie  of  Diuine,  morall,  and  Phylosophicall  similies  and  sentences, 
generally  vsefull.  But  more  particularly  published  for  the  vse  of 
Schooles.  By  F.  M.  Master  of  Arts  of  both  Vniuersities.  London, 
Printed  by  William  Stansby,  and  arc  to  be  sold  by  Richard  Royston,  at 
his  Shop  in  luie  Lane.     1634.    Sm.  8vo.     R. 

Engraved  title  by  Droeshout,  i  leaf;  A,  8  leaves  ;  B— Kk  4  in  twelves. 

The  engraved  title  varies  from  the  above,  and  runs  as  follows  :  "  Witts  Academy 
A  Treasurie  of  Goulden  Sentences  Similies  and  Examples.  Set  forth  cheefely  for 
the  benefitt  of  young  SchoUers.  By  F.  M.  M'.  of  Arts  of  both  Vniuersities.  Printed 
at  London  for  Richard  Royston  1636."  This  is  a  beautiful  copy,  with  some  rough 
leaves.  It  is  a  reprint  of  the  edition  of  1598.  The  "comparative  discourse  of  our 
EngUsh  Poets,"  wherein  Shakespeare  is  mentioned,  occurs  here  at  p.  616. 

MERIAN,  Math.  Todten-Tantz,  Wie  derselbe  in  der  loblichen 
vnd  weitberuhmten  Statt  Basel,  Als  ein  Spiegel  Menschlicher  Beschaf- 

fenheit,  gantz  kiinstlich  gemahlet  zu   sehen   ist Nach  dem 

Original  in  Kupffer  gebracht,  vnd  herausz  gegeben,  Durch  Matthceum 
Merian  den  Eltern.   Franckfnrt.   Ini  Jahr  MDC.XLIX.   4to.   Plates. 

A — Cc  in  fours.  The  engraved  title  and  forty-four  plates  count  in  the  signatures. 

La  danse  des  Morts,  comme  elle  est  depeinte  dans  la  louable 

et  celebre  Ville  de  Basle A  Basle,  dies  Jean  Rodolphe  Im  Hof. 

1756.    4to.    BLK.  M. 

(A)— (H  2)  in  fours,  including  an  engraved  title  dated  1744.  A— R  2  in  fours. 
The  plates  are  inferior  copies  of  those  by  Merian  in  the  edition  described  above. 
The  text  is  in  French  and  German. 

Topographia.     See  Zeiller. 

[MERITON,  L.]  Pecuniae  obediunt  Omnia.  Money  Masters  all 
Things :  or,  Satyrical  Poems,  shewing  The  Power  and  Influence  of 
Money  over  all  Men,  of  what  Profession  or  Trade  soever  they  be.    To 

which  are  added,  A  Lenten  Litany,  by  Mr.  C d,  a  Satyr  on  Mr. 

5  T 


954  MERLIN. 

Dryden,  and  several  other  Modern  Translators;  also  a  Satyr  on 
Women  in  general  :   Together  with   Mr.  Oldham's    Character  of  a 

certai  n  Ugly  Old  P .  Printed,  and  Sold  by  the  Booksellers  of  London 

and  Westminster,  1698.    8vo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B— K  4  in  eights. 

The  first  poem,  which  is  the  most  curious  portion  of  the  volume,  is  a  reprint  of 
the  quarto  edition  published  at  York  in  1696. 

MERLIN.    Folio. 

MS.  on  vellum,  of  the  thirteenth  century,  of  English  or  Norman-French  exe- 
cution, with  sixty-nine  highly  finished  miniatures  of  very  fine  design.  It  consists  of 
229  folios,  seven  being  deficient. 

This  unique  and  most  precious  manuscript  was  discovered  in  1869  among 
the  books  belonging  to  the  late  Comte  de  Corbicre,  by  M.  Paulin  Paris,  and  is 
described  by  Mr.  Furnivall  as  "  the  long-lost  and  long-sought  book  of  Balin  le 
Sauvage,  which  Malory  used  in  his  immortal  '  Morte  d'Arthur,'  the  book  which 
neither  Southey  nor  any  other  student  of  Arthur  romances  could  find." 

The  following  account  of  the  volume  is  from  the  pen  of  the  learned  M.  Paulin 
Paris,  with  only  such  verbal  alterations  as  were  necessary  to  adapt  it  to  the  present 
purpose.  It  has  been  necessary,  however,  to  recopy  the  quotations,  as  the  text 
given  by  M.  Paulin  Paris  did  not  at  all  represent  the  MS.  : — 

"  Avant  le  travail  des  assembleurs,  il  y  avait  des  romans  sdpards  qui  racontaient 
I'histoire  d'Artus  autrement  que  dans  le  texte  adoptd  par  les  assembleurs.  Et  c'est 
un  de  ces  romans  que  nous  offre  le  manuscrit  Corbicre,  et  que  I'auteur  anglais  du 
XV«  siicle  avait  suivi  dans  la  '  Morte  d'Arthur,'  tout  en  I'abrdgeant  beaucoup.  Ainsi 
nous  avons  retrouvd  en  France  I'original  jusqu'  \  prdsent  non  reconnu,  sur  lequel 
Sir  Thomas  Malory  avait  rdgld  sa  traduction.  Ddcouverte  fort  importante,  qui 
vient  )x  I'appui  de  mes  conjectures  prdcddentes  :  k  savoir  que  la  traduction  en  prose 
du  poeme  de  Robert  de  Borron  avait  eu,  des  le  commencement  du  Xlll'  si&cle,  una 
assez  grande  vogue,  puisqu'on  en  a  jusqu'Ji  present  reconnu  quatre  copies  ;  et  en 
second  lieu,  que  les  branches  d'Artus  et  de  Lancelot,  reproduites  dans  une  foule 
innombrable  de  manuscrits  fran^ais,  sont  I'oeuvre  des  assembleurs  du  Xiiii«  siecle,  et 
ne  contiennent  pas  toutes  les  anciennes  compositions  faites  dfes  la  fin  du  Xll'=  siicle 
sur  les  compagnons  d'Artus  et  sur  Artus  lui-meme. 

"  Ce  manuscrit,  qui  fut  achetd  par  le  libraire  Bachelin  k  la  vente  apr&s  ddces  des 
livres  du  Comte  Corbiere,  ancien  ministre  de  nos  derniers  rois,  Louis  XVIII  et 
Charles  X,  contient  les  particularitds  suivantes. 

"  Fo.  I  k  18.  Reduction  en  prose  du  poeme  de  Robert  de  Borron,  'Joseph  d'Ari- 
mathie.' 

"Fo.  19  k  75.  Rdduction  en  prose  du  'Merlin'  de  Robert  de  Borron,  jusqu'au 
couronnement  d'Artus.  '  Ensi  fu  Artus  esleus  a  roi  et  tint  la  terre  et  le  regne  de 
logres  lone  tans  a  pais '  (correspondant  au  chap.  v.  du  texte  de  Malory,  jusqu'k  la 
i6e  ligne  de  la  scconde  colonne,  p.  30,  ed.  Strachey,  1868). 

"  A  partir  de  \\  texte  frangais  nouveau.  Fo.  74.  Rdcit  particulier  de  la  con- 
ception de  Mordret,  fils  d'Artus  et  de  sa  soeur  la  reine  d'Orcanie.— Songe  d'Artus. 
Chasse  de  la  bete  glotissante.  (Malory,  liv.  i,  ch.  xvii.)  Fo.  77.  Merlin  apprend  i 
Artus  le  secret  de  sa  naissance.     (Mai.  ch.  xviii.) 

"  Fo.  80.  Ulfin  accuse  Ygierne,  mtre  d'Artus,  pour  lui  donner  occasion  de  se 
justifier.  (Malory,  ch.  xix.)— Le  chevalier  du  Pavilion.  Fo.  86.  Ddfi  de  I'empereur 
de  Rome.  (Mai.  ch.  xxi.)  Girflet  abattu  par  le  chevalier  du  Pavilion. — Artus  dgale- 
ment  abattu,  doit  son  salut  au  sommeil  du  chevalier,  que  MerUn  avait  enchantd, 
fo.  92.    (Malory,  ch.  xxii.)— lb.    La  demoiselle  du  lac  donne  Excalibor  i  Artus,  \  la 


MERLIN.  955 

condition  de  la  proniesse  d'un  don.  Le  fiierre  ou  fourreau  de  IVpde  est  encore  do 
plus  grand  prix  que  I'dpde. — Description  du  lac.  Mariage  de  Morgain  avec  le  roi 
Urien  de  Garlot,  fo.  94.  Conception  d'Yvain,  fils  d'Urien  et  de  JVlorgain.  (lb.)  Ddfi 
du  roi  Rion.  Naissance  de  Mordret.  Artus  fait  rdunir  Ics  enfans  nds  dans  le 
meme  temps,  et  les  fait  voguer  dans  un  vaisseau  sans  mat  ni  avirons.  (fo.  95,  Ma- 
lory, ch.  XXV.) 

"  Fo.  98.  Arrivde  de  la  demoiselle  de  I'lle  d'Avalon  qui  prdsente  une  dpde  qu'un 
chevalier  sans  reproche  pent  seul  tirer  du  fourreau.  Balaham  parvient  k  la  tirer  et 
vcut  la  garder  avec  ccUe  qu'il  avait  auparavant  malgrd  la  prediction  de  la  demoi- 
selle que  cette  dpde  lui  sera  funeste.  (Malory,  liv.  2,  ch.  ii.)  De  li  son  surnom  de 
'  chevalier  aux  deux  dpdes.' 

"  Fo.  TOO.  Retour  de  la  demoiselle  du  lac  qui  demande  au  roi,  pour  le  don  qu'il 
lui  a  promis,  la  tete  de  la  demoiselle  de  File  d'Avalon,  ou  celle  du  chevalier  qui  a 
pu  tirer  I'dpde  du  fourreau  ;  mais  Balaham  la  prdvient,  tue  la  demoiselle  du  lac,  et 
s'dloigne  en  laissant  le  roi  et  tous  les  barons  irritds  de  son  action.    (Malory,  ch.  iii.) 

"  Fo.  103.  Le  chevalier  envoyd  par  Artus  pour  le  venger  de  Balaham  est  tud 
par  lui,  et  sa  maitresse  se  perce  mortellement  sur  son  corps  :  regrets  de  Balaham. 
Rencontre  des  deux  frS^res  Balaham  et  Balin.  Le  roi  Marc  fait  dlever  un  tombeau 
au  chevalier  tud  et  ^  sa  fidfele  maitresse. 

"  Fo.  106.  Les  deux  frferes  Balaham  et  Balin  font  prisonnier  le  roi  Rion  et  les 
rois  ses  auxiliaires.  lis  les  livrent  k  Artus,  qui  se  rdconcilie  avec  Balaham. — Ba- 
taiUe  contre  Ndro,  frc-re  de  Rion,  puis  contre  le  roi  Loth,  qui,  par  ressentiment  de 
I'enl^vement  de  son  fils  Mordret  avait  passd  du  cotd  de  Ndro.  Le  roi  Loth  est  tud 
par  Pelinor,  le  chevalier  du  Pavilion.  Cette  mort  devait  plus  tard  etre  vengde  par 
Gauvain.  (Malory,  ch.  x.)  Monument  dievd  k  Loth  et  aux  douze  rois  vaincus,  par 
Artus. 

"  Fo.  118.  Merlin  amoureux  de  Morgain,  I'instruit  dans  I'art  des  enchantemens : 
elle  lui  ddfend  de  I'aimer,  et  Merlin  s'dloigne  d'elle.  EUe  devient  dperdument 
amoureuse  d'un  chevalier,  pour  lequel  elle  vole  le  fourreau  d'Excalibor,  et  puis 
I'dpde.  Elle  tente  inutilement  de  faire  mourir  Artus,  parceque  le  chevalier  qu'elle 
aimait  rdvile  ses  mauvais  desseins,  au  lieu  de  les  mettre  k  exdcution.  Merlin,  qui 
I'aime  toujours,  lui  permet  d'dviter  la  vengeance  du  roi,  et  celui-ci  tue  le  bon  che- 
valier qu'il  accuse  d'avoir  faussement  accusd  sa  soeur. 

"Fo.  122.  Aventure  du  chevalier  affligd  qu'Artus  fait  suivre  par  Balaham,  le 
chevalier  aux  deux  dpdes.  Celui-ci  I'atteint,  le  ddcide  \  revenir  vers  le  roi ;  mais 
comme  ils  revenaient,  une  main  invisible  frappe  morteUement  le  chevalier.  Cette 
main  dtait  celle  de  Garlain  son  ennemi,  qui  avait  la  facultd  de  se  rendre  invisible. 
Le  chevalier  aux  deux  dpdes  raconte  au  roi  ce  qui  vient  de  lui  arriver  et  s'engage 
dans  la  quete  que  le  chevalier  mort  avait  entreprise.  Le  roi  fait  faire  une  tombe 
k  la  victime  de  Garlain  avec  les  mots :  '  Ci  gist  le  chevalier  mesconneus.' 

"lei,  fo.  125,  vo,  s'ouvre  une  parenthfese  assez  importante  de  I'arrangeur,  pour 
nous  annoncer  la  fin  de  la  premiere  partie  de  ce  livre  de  Merlin,  et  le  commencement 
de  la  seconde,  qui  devra  remplir  la  fin  du  volume.    Voici  cette  parenthfese : 

" '  Or  laisse  li  contes  a  parler  dou  roi  &  de  .M.  &  parole  del  cheualier  as  .ij.  espees. 
Et  pour  conter  coment  il  vient  de  la  queste'  a  chief.  &  coment  il  fist  le  cop  p  coi 
les  auentures  auirent  el  roiame  de  logres  qui  durerent  .xxii.  ans.  Et  omet  il  ochist 
son  frere  par  mesauenture.  &  ses  freres  lui.  Et  sacent  tuct  q  tout  cil  (\  lestoire 
nion  signeur  de  borron  vauront  oir  ome  il  deuise  son  liure  en  .iij.  parties.  Lune 
ptie  aussi  grant  ame  lautre.  La  pmiere  aussi  grande  ome  la  seconde.  Et  la  seconde 
aussi  grant  comme  la  tierche.  Et  la  pmiere  ptie  fenist  il  au  comenchemct  de  ceste 
qste.    Et  la  seconde  el  comenchemet  dou  graal.    Et  la  tierche  fenist  il  aprie  la 

'  La  quSte  annoncde  plus  haut. 


956  MERLIN. 

mort  de  lanscelot.  A  chelui  point  mesme  quil  deuise  de  la  mort  le  roi  march.  Et 
cest  chose  a  meittoit  en  la  fin  dou  premier  liure.  Pour  chou  q  lestoire  dou  graal 
estoit  corrompue  p  auchuns  translatours  qui  apres  lui  venisset.  Tout  li  sage  houme 
qui  meteroient  lour  entente  a  oir  &  a  escouter  porroient  par  ceste  pole  sauoir.  se 
elle  lour  seroit  vaillie  entiere  ou  corropue.  Et  comsteroient  bii  com  bn  il  i  faurront. 
Puis  quil  a  ore  ensi  deuise  lassemet  de  so  liure.  il  retorne  a  sa  matiere  en  tel  maniere.' 

"  On  remarquera  que  notre  volume  commencant  par  la  reduction  en  prose  du 
'  Joseph  d'Arimathie,'  I'auteur  de  cette  parenthese  devait  entendre,  par  la  troisii^me 
partie  de  I'ceuvre  qu'il  attribue  k  Robert  de  Borron,  le  '  livre  du  Saint  Graal,'  com- 
post comme  je  I'ai  demontrd  plus  haut  (page  3  et  4)  par  un  autre  que  le '  Joseph.' 
II  ne  faut  pas  penser  que  cette  tierce  partie  qui  commencera  par  le  'Graal,'  soit  la 
'  Quete  du  Graal ;'  car  les  derniires  lignes  de  notre  volume,  qui  finit  avec  la  seconde 
partie  (dgale  en  dtendue  \  la  premiere),  nous  disent : 

"  '  Si  laisse  ore  atant  li  contes  a  parler  &  del  dame  &  del  roi.  Et  de  toute  la  vie 
Merlin.  Et  deuisera  dune  autre  matiere  qui  parlera  dou  graal  pour  chou  q  cest  li 
comenchemens  de  cest  liure.' 

"  On  pourrait  entendre  ces  mots,  '  Et  la  tierche  fenist  il  aprie  la  mort  de  lanscelot. 
A  chelui  point  mesme  quil  deuise  de  la  mort  le  roi  march,'  de  la  mani&re  suivante  : 
La  troisi^me  finit  par  le  r^cit  de  la  mort  du  roi  Lancelot  (laqueUe  mort  en  effet 
termine  le  '  Saint  Graal,'  voy.  men  tome  i,  in  fine),  au  moment  oil  reprend  I'histoire 
du  roi  March,  c'est-^-dire,  oil  commence  I'histoire  de  Tristan.  Mais  jamais  le 
'  Tristan'  ne  fut  attribud  i  Robert  de  Borron  ;  je  crois  done  qu'il  y  a  une  meprise 
dans  notre  texte,  et  qu'il  eut  fallu  '  a  celui  point  meme  qu'il  devise  de  la  Marche.' 
On  sait  que  le  livre  de  Lancelot  commence  par  les  mots :  '  En  la  marche  de  GauUe.' 
Si  Ton  reconnait  un  second  exemplaire  de  notre  texte,  on  y  trouvera  sans  doute  la 
lc(;on  que  je  propose  :  mais  dans  tous  les  cas  personne  au  treizidme  siecle  n'attri- 
buait  le  livre  du  roi  Marc  et  de  Tristan  k  Robert  de  Borron  ;  par  consdquent,  notre 
auteur  n'a  pu  vouloir  dire  ici  qu'il  donnerait  I'histoire  de  '  Marc '  dans  la  troisitoie 
partie  d'un  livre  qu'il  attribue  a  Borron. 

"Ajoutons  que  si  la  troisiime  partie  avait  contenu  non  seulement  I'histoire  de 
'  Lancelot,'  mais  celle  du  roi  Marc  et  de  la  '  Quete  du  Saint  Graal,'  elle  aurait  ndces- 
sairement  surpassd  en  dtendue  dix  fois  chacune  des  deux  premieres  parties  ; — ce 
qui  ddmentirait  I'observation  de  notre  assembleur,  qui  ddclare  que  les  trois  parties 
de  son  prdtendu  livre  de  Robert  de  Borron  dtaient  d'dgale  longueur.  Le  'Graal,'  au 
contraire,  aujourd'hui  commencement,  ou  premiere  partie  du  Cycle  de  la  Table 
Ronde,  est  prdcise'ment  de  I'dtendue  de  la  moitid  de  notre  manuscrit  Corbifere. 
Nouvelle  preuve  que  cette  troisiime  partie  dtait  dans  la  pensde  de  I'assembleur,  le 
'  Saint  Graal.' 

"A  la  fin  du  rdcit  de  la  mort  et  des  fundrailles  de  Balaham,  dit  le  chevalier  aux 
deux  dpdes,  on  trouve  encore  la  preuve  que  la  troisifeme  partie  de  notre  rddaction 
ne  se  rapportait  pas  \  Lancelot  du  Lac.  Apris  avoir  dit  que  sur  le  lit  oil  Balaham 
avait  pris  la  lance  dont  il  avait  frappd  Peldan,  nul  ne  reposa  depuis  sans  recevoir 
la  mort,  exceptd  Lancelot  et  son  fils  Galaad;  encore  Lancelot  ne  fut-il  prdservd 
que  par  I'anneau  que  lui  avait  donnd  la  dame  du  lac,  notre  assembleur  ajoute  : 

"'  Et  eel  anelet  li  auoit  donne  la  damoisiele  del  lac.  si  comme  la  giit  hystoire  de 
lanscelot  la  deuise.  Ce  le  meisme  ystoire  q  doit  estre  deptie  de  mon  liure.  Ne 
nue  [?]  pour  chou  quil  ni  aptiegne  &  q  elle  nen  soit  traite  mais  pour  chou  quil 
Duient  ques  les  .iii.  parties  de  mon  liure  nigaus  Lune  aussi  grant  comme  lautre. 
Et  se  ie  aiouslaisse  cele  grant  ystoire  la  moi  ptie  de  mon  liure  fust  au  tresble 
plus  grant  q  les  autres  deus.  pour  chou  me  conuient  il  laissier  cette  ystoire  qui 
deuise  les  ceures  de  lanscelot.  &  la  naissance.'  (fo.  149,  2'ne.) 

"Notre  seconde  partie  commence  done  au  fo.  124,  correspondant  au  chapitre 
xiii  du  livre  2  de  Sir  T.  Malory;  mais  la  matiere  est  extremement  abregde  dans 


MERLIN.  957 

Ma.lor>',  qui  attribue  meme  au  second  chevalier  qui  accompagne  le  chevalier  aux 
deux  epdes,  le  nom  de  '  Perin  de  Montbeliart'  que  ne  donne  pas  notre  manuscrit. 
Balaham,  ou  Balain,  pdndtre  dans  le  chateau  du  roi  Peldan,  frire  de  I'odieux  Gar- 
lain,  qui  tombe  sous  ses  coups.  Pel^an  veut  venger  son  frere ;  Balahan  cherche 
partout  quelquearme  qui  remplace  son  dpde  brisee.  II  trouve  sur  un  lit  magnifique, 
une  forte  et  belle  lance,  la  prend,  en  frappe  Pel^an,  qui  d^s  lors  ne  fut  plus  appel^ 
que  le  roi  '  Mehaign^,' celui  auquel  ^tait  confix  la  garde  du  Graal.  (Malory,  ch.  15.) 
L'histoire  fatale  et  deplorable  de  ce  pauvre  chevalier  aux  deux  ^pdes  est  ici  racontde 
plus  longuement  et  d'une  fagon  bien  plus  touchante  que  dans  le  texte  de  Malory. 
Sur  sa  tombe  et  sur  celle  de  son  frire,  Merlin  ^crivit :  '  Chi  gist  balaam  li  chevaliers 
a  .ii.  espees  qui  fist  de  la  lanche  venceresse  le  cop  dolere®  p  coi  li  roiaumes  de 
listinois  est  tornes  a  dolour.'     (fo.  149.) 

"Apr&s  avoir  longuement  racontd  tous  les  enchantemens  disposes  par  Merlin 
dans  I'ile  des  merveilles,  ou  dtait  conservd  le  Saint  Graal,  nous  revenons  au  courant 
du  3<=  livre  de  Sir  Th.  Malory.  La  demande  en  mariage  de  Gin^vre  fille  de  Ldo- 
degan;  la  cession  que  lui  fait  ce  prince  des  chevaliers  de  la  table  ronde,  rdduits 
alors  au  nombre  de  cent,  et  qu'Artus  doit  porter  k  1 50. — Gauvain,  Pelinor,  Tor  le 
fils  Ate,  et  autres,  sont  du  nombre. — Les  trois  quetes  de  Gauvain,  d'Urien,  et 
d'Accolon,  amant  de  Morgain  ;  le  combat  d'Accolon  contre  Artus;  comment  Mor- 
gain  tente  de  tuer  son  mari  Urien.  L'arriv^e  k  la  cour  d'une  demoiselle  de  Mor- 
gain portant  un  manteau  empoisonn(£  que  le  roi  la  contraint  de  revetir.  Ici  la 
demoiselle  du  lac,  qui  dtait  venu  I'avertir  de  la  nouvelle  trahison  de  Morgain,  prend 
congd  d' Artus  en  lui  recommandant  de  toujours  honorer  chevalerie  :  'A  lendemain 
sen  parti  od  toute  sa  maisnie.  Et  li  rois  remais  a  carlion.  Si  laisse  ore  atant  li 
contes  a  parler  &  del  dame  &  del  roi.  Et  de  toute  la  vie  merlin.'  Cette  fin  corre- 
spond au  milieu  du  seizi&me  chapitre  du  quatrifeme  livre  de  Sir  Th.  Malory. 

"  Tel  est  ce  manuscrit,  qui  a  cela  de  particulier  qu'il  offre  une  redaction  du 
roman  de  Merlin  tout  diffifrente  de  celle  qui  a  €k.€  consacrde  par  les  assembleurs 
du  xilll=  siecle,  et  dont  M.  Henry  B.  Wheatley  vient  de  publier  une  ancienne  tra- 
duction anglaise,  enti&rement  prise  sur  I'original  franqais. 

"  Le  manuscrit  Corbit^re  est  le  seul  jusqu'^  present  qui  offre  I'original  suivi  dans 
la  traduction  de  Sir  Th.  Malory.  Sans  lui,  nous  aurions  etd  disposes  k  croire  que 
I'ancien  dcrivain  anglais  avait  invent^  les  dpisodes  qui  different  de  ceux  qui  sont 
contenus  dans  la  traduction  publide  par  M.  Wheatley.  Ainsi  nous  sommes  con- 
duits k  reconnaitre  qu'il  y  eut,  d^s  la  fin  du  xil=  siecle,  plusieurs  formes  distinctes 
de  la  seconde  partie  du  roman  de  Merlin,  et  que  les  dcrivains  que  Ton  chargeait  de 
disposer  les  differents  recits  de  la  table  ronde,  firent  entrer  dans  leur  compilation, 
tantot  une  de  ces  formes,  tantot  une  autre.  Les  grands  seigneurs  pour  lesquels 
ils  faisaient  ces  volumes,  ddsiraient  y  trouver  la  reunion  des  branches  qui  d'abord 
avaient  parues  separdes  et  composdes  par  des  auteurs  distincts.  Celui  qui  a  fait  dis- 
poser le  texte  de  ce  manuscrit  le  coupa  en  trois  parties,  dont  les  deux  premi&res  se 
retrouvent  dans  le  volume  conserve,  et  dont  la  troisi&me  devait  reproduire  le  '  Saint 
Graal '  attribud  k  tort  k  Robert  de  Borron  et  i  Gautier  Map." 

MERLIN.  Le  premie[r]  volume  de  merlin.  [On  the  verso  of  folio 
211  :]  C  Cy  fine  la  premiere  partie  du  liure  de  merlin. — Le  second 
volume  de  merlin. — [On  the  verso  of  folio  172  :]  C  A  tat  se  taist  icy  et 
fait  fin  le  compte  de  la  vie  merlin  et  de  ses  faiz,  et  compte  de  ses 
prophecies. — Les  prophecies  de  merlin.  [Colophon.]  Cy  finissmt  les 
propliecies  merlin  7ioiaielleine7it  iinprinie  a  paris  Ian  mil.  IIII.  CCCC. 
II II.  XX.  XVIII.  pour  Antlioine  verart  demoiirant  deudt  nostre  dame 


958  MERLIN— MERMAN. 

de  Paris  a  lymage  saint  JeJian  kuaiigeliste,  ou  au  palays  an  premier 
pillier  deuaut  \sic'\  la  chappcUe  ou  leu  chate  la  messe  de  messcigiieurs  de 
parlement.    3  vols.    Folio.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts. 

Brunei  gives  the  number  of  leaves  of  te.xt  in  the  first  volume  as  211,  and  the  last 
leaf  is  so  numbered,  but  there  are  really  216  leaves,  the  folios  being  very  incorrect 
throughout.  Brunet  also  remarks  that  in  the  vellum  copy  in  the  National  Library  at 
Paris,  the  heading  of  the  text  in  the  second  volume  occupies  six  lines,  while  in  the 
paper  copy  it  occupies  only  three  and  a  half  lines.  The  present  copy  in  this  respect 
follows  the  vellum  impression. 

MERLIN.  La  Vita  de  Merlino  &  le  sue  prophetic  historia  de 
die  lui  fece  lequale  trattano  de  le  cose  che  hanno  a  uenire.  [Colo- 
phon.] Stampato  in  Venetia  del  M.  CCCCC.  XVI.  adi  XX.  Zenaro. 
4to.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

Title  and  table,  12  leaves  ;  A— P  in  eights;  Q,  10  leaves. 

La  vita  di  Merlino  con  le  sve  profetie  nouamente  ristampata 

&  con  somma  diligentia  corrette  &  istoriate.  Le  quali  trattano  de  le 
cose  che  hanno  a  venire.  [Colophon.]  Stampato  in  Venetia  per 
Vcturino  di  Rossinelli.  Ad  instantia  di  Andrea  Pegolotto  Libraro. 
MDXXXIX.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves,  the  last  blank  ;  pp.  1-252. 

MERLIN'S  PROPHECY.  The  Lord  Merlins  Prophecy  con- 
cerning the  King  of  Scots:  foretelling  The  strange  and  wonderfull  things 
that  shall  befall  him  in  England.  As  also,  The  time  and  manner  of  a 
dismal  and  fatall  Battel  .  .  .  Also,  King  James  His  Dream,  and  Queen 
Ann's  Prophecy  touching  the  King,  and  the  redusing  of  England  .  .  . 
from  Monarchy.  With  The  Lady  Sybilla's  Prophecy  .  .  .  Likewise, 
The  Prophecy  of  Paul  Grebner  (a  German)  Concerning  Charles  Son  of 
Charles  the  Emp :  ....  Presented  to  Queen  Elizabeth  Anno  1582. 
and  recorded  in  the  Library  of  Trinity  CoUedge  in  Cambridge,  by  Dr. 
Nevill,  Clerk  of  her  Majesties  Closet.  London,  Printed  by  J.  C.  for 
G.  Horton.   165 1.    4to. 

Eight  leaves. 

MERLINUS  VERAX.  The  Nativity  of  That  most  Illustrious 
and  Magnanimous  Prince,  Carolus  Gustavus,  King  of  Sweden,  Astro- 
logically  handled  ;  and  Published  for  the  honour  of  Art,  and  the 
satisfaction  of  all  sorts  of  Persons  generally,  as  well  Astrologers  as 
Others;  And  particularly  for  the  better  Information  of  Mr.  William 

Lilly London:  Printed  in  the  Year  1659.    4to. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

MERMAN.  Relacion  de  como  el  pexe  Nicolao  agora  se  ha 
aparececido  de  nueuo  en  la  mar,  y  hablo  con  muchos  Marineros,  en 


MERR  Y—MER  VINE.  959 

differentes  partes,  y  de  les  grandes  marauillas  que  les  cont6  de  secretes 
importantes  a  la  nauegacion.  Este  pexe  Nicolao  es  medio  hombre,  y 
medio  pescado,  cuya  figura  es  esta  que  aqui  va  retratada.  Impressa 
con  licencia,  En  Salenianca  en  casa  de  Antonia  Ramirez,  viiida.  Afio 
1608.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

On  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  a  Merman.    The  piece  is  in  metre. 

MERRY  DEVILL  OF  EDMONTON,  The.  As  it  hath  bene 
sundry  times  Acted  by  his  Majesties  Seruants,  at  the  Globe  on  the 
Bancke  side.  London,  Printed  by  Thomas  Creede,for  Arthur  lohnson, 
dwelling  at  the  signe  of  tlie  white  Horse  in  Panics  Church-yarde,  oner 
against  tJt£  great  North  doore  of  Panles.    161 2.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

This  play  was  first  printed  in  1608,  an  impression  of  extraordinary  rarity;  but 
it  was  acted  in  or  before  1604,  under  which  year  it  is  quoted  as  a  piece  actually  on 
the  stage  in  "  The  Black  Book,"  by  T.  M. 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

MERRY  JEST  OF  A  SHREW.  Here  begynneth  a  merry  Teste 
of  a  shrewde  and  curste  Wyfe,  lapped  in  Morrelles  Skin  for  her  good 
behauyour.  Imprinted  at  London  in  Flcetestrete,  beneath  the  Condiiite,  at 
the  signe  of  Saint  lohn  Euaungelist,  by  H.  lackson.  [About  1 580.]  4to. 
Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

A — F  in  fours.     In  verse. 

The  only  perfect  copy  known.  From  the  Heber  and  Daniel  collections.  The 
Selden  copy  wants  the  title-page  and  another  leaf  The  cuts  throughout  the  volume, 
including  one  on  the  title-page  and  a  second  on  the  back  of  it,  have  no  connection 
with  the  book,  and  were  most  probably  engraved  for  some  other  work. 

MERVINE.  The  most  Famous  and  renowned  Historie,  of  that 
woorthie  and  illustrous  Knight  Meruine,  sonne  to  that  rare  and  ex- 
cellent Mirror  of  Princely  prowesse,  Oger  the  Dane,  and  one  of  that 
royall  bond  of  vnmatchable  Knighthoode,  the  twelue  Peeres  of  France. 
Wherein  is  declared,  his  rare  birth,  and  stranger  bringing  vp,  with  his 
most  honorable  conquest  of  Jerusalem,  Babilon,  and  diuers  other  Cities 
from  the  pagan  Infidels :  with  many  other  memorable  accidents  of 
wonderous  consequence.  By  I.  M.  Gent.  Printed  at  London  by  R. 
Blower  and  Val.  Sims.    161 2.    4to.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A — Z  4  in  eights. 

In  the  notice  to  the  reader,  the  translator  states  that  in  issuing  the  first  part, 
it  is  his  intention  to  present  the  public  with  the  second  next  term. 

No  earlier  impression  is  now  known,  but  it  was  registered  at  Stationers'  Hall, 
3rd  February,  1595,  by  Richard  Jones,  as  "  The  historye  of  Sir  Mervyn  son  to  Ogyer 
the  Dane  one  of  the  xij  peires  of  France/  translated  out  of  Frenche."  See  Arber's 
"  Transcript,"  iii.,  7. 


96o  MER  VINIA—ME  S  SINGH  A  M. 

MERVINIA,  Jean  DE.  Discovrs  et  Traicte  Veritable  dv  Martire 
endvre  a  Londres  en  Angleterre.  Par  le  R.  Pare  lean  de  Mervinia, 
avtrement  dit  Roberts,  Religieux  tres-renomme  de  I'Ordre  S.  Benoist 
de  la  Congregation  d'Espaigne  execute  le  lo.  de  Decembre  I'An  1610. 
A  Dovay,  De  rimprimerie  de  Laurent  Kellam  a  rEnsigiie  de  VAgneau 
Paschal.    M.DC.XI.    8vo. 

A— D  in  fours.  With  a  woodcut  intended  to  represent  the  execution,  on  the 
back  of  the  title,  repeated  at  sig.  A  4. 

This  is  a  small  tract  of  the  greatest  rarity  from  the  press  of  Kellam,  the  printer 
of  the  first  edition  of  the  Douay  Bible. 

MESA,  Thomas  de.  Andelwio  y  Rvyna  qve  hizo  el  Rio  Guadal- 
quiuir,  en  la  Ciudad  de  Seuilla,  y  Triana,  y  otros  pueblos  comarcanos, 
en  veynte  de  Deziembre  deste  ano  de  mil  y  seyscientos  y  tres.  Donde 
se  da  cuenta  del  mucho  mal  q  hizo,  derribando  casas,  ahogando  gentes, 
echando  aperder  mu  mucha  suma  de  mercaderias,  hundiendo  Nauios 
de  trigo,  y  otras  cosas  :  Y  las  grandes  preuenciones  que  su  Senoria  el 
Assistente,  y  sus  justicias,  hizieron  para  reparar  los  dafios  que  hazia  a 
la  Ciudad,  juntamente  co  los  senores  Veynte  y  quatros  de  la  dicha 
Ciudad.  Compuesto  por  Tomas  de  Mesa  vezino  desta  Ciudad  de 
Seuilla.  Lnpressas  con  licencia,  en  casa  de  Fernando  de  Lara,  en  la  calle 
delaSierpe.    Afw  M.DC.III.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     Beneath  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  a  town  with  ships  before  it. 

MESCHINOT,  Jehan.  Les  lunettes  des  princes  auec  aulcunes 
balades  et  additions  nouuellement  composees  par  noble  homme. 
Jehan  meschinot  escuier  en  son  viuant  grat  maistre  dhostel  de  la 
royne  de  france.  [Colophon.]  Cy  finessent  les  binettes  de  prices.  Int- 
privices  a  paris  par  Micliel  le  noir  libraire  mre  en  luniuersite  de  parts. 
Demourant  dcuant  salt  Denis  de  la  chartre  a  lymage  nostre  dame.  Le 
jciiii.iourde  Feurier.  La7t  mil  cinq  cens  et  cinq.  4to.  Black  letter.  R.  M. 
A — Q  in  sixes,  except  I,  L,  O,  and  P,  which  are  in  fours. 

MESSINGHAM,  Thomas.  Florilegivm  Insulae  Sanctorum  sev 
Vitae  et  Acta  Sanctorum  Hiberniae.  Quibus  accesserunt  non  vulgaria 
monumenta  Hoc  est  Sancti  Patricii  Purgatorium,S.Malachi3e  Prophetia 
de  summis  Pontificibus,  Aliaque  nonnulla  quorum  Elenchvs  post  Prse- 
fationem  habetur.      Omnia  nunc  primum  partim  ex  MS.  codicibus, 

partim  typis  editis  collegit,  &  publicabat  Th.  Messinghamus 

Parisiis,  Ex  officina  Sebastiani  Cramoisy.    1624.    Folio.    O.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  22  leaves;  A — S  ii  in  fours;  T— Aa  ii  in  fours  ;  Bb  and 
Cc,  four  leaves  between  them ;  Dd — Ff  ii  in  fours ;  Gg — LI  iii  in  fours  ;  Mm — MMm  iii 
in  fours. 

Bouquet  de  I'lsle  des  Saints  ou  les  vies   et  actes  des  SS. 

d'Hybernie  accompagne  de  plusieurs  monumens  curieux.    Tels  que  le 


MESUA—MEXIA.  961 

Purgatoire  de  Saint  Patrice,  les  prophecies  de  Saint  Malachie  sur  les 
Souverains  Pontifes  et  plusieurs  autres  pieces,  dont  la  notice  est  apres 
la  preface.  Partie  ayant  deja  ete  imprimee,  partie  restee  en  Manuscrit. 
Paris  par  St'b.  Cramoisy.     1624.     8vo. 

Pp-  33- 

Though  bearing  the  date  of  1624,  with  the  nanie  of  Cramoisy  as  printer,  this 
piece  appears  to  be  printed  at  least  a  hundred  years  later.  It  merely  contains  the 
title  and  dedication  of  Messingham's  "  Florilegium,"  in  Latin  and  French,  and  at 
p.  30  begins,  "  Note  sur  I'Epitre  dddicatoire  de  M.  Messingham  a  MM.  I'Escalopier, 
fils  de  Jean  I'Escalopier,  mort  en  1620,  President  du  Parlement."  This  note  on  the 
Escalopier  family  seems  to  be  the  object  of  the  publication. 

MESUA,  JOH.  Sobre  el  Mesue  &  Nicolao.  Modus  faciedi  nueua- 
mente  por  el  auctor  corregido :  y  en  esta  impressio  tercera  afiedido  vn 
notable  tractado  de  secretes  curatiuos :  como  al  fin  de  la  buelta  desta 
hoja  se  vera.  [Colophon.]  Fue  inipresso  en  la  nmy  noble  y  felicisshna 
cibdad  de  Seuilla  en  las  casas  d'  Jud  croberger  qui  aya  gloria  anno 
doniini  1542.    Folio. 

Folios  1-224,  including  title;  "Addition,"  title,  and  table,  2  leaves  ;  folios  1-21. 

This  Spanish  translation  appears  to  have  been  unknown  to  Brunei,  and  is  not 
to  be  found  in  the  Salvi  catalogue,  though  it  would  appear  from  the  title  that 
there  must  have  been  two  previous  editions. 

METHODIUS  primQ  olympiade :  et  postea  Tyri  ciuitatum  epis- 
cop^.  sub  diocleciano  Imperatore  In  Calcide  ciuitate  (que  nigropontum 
appellatur  vtdiuus  scribit  hieronimus  martyrio)  coronatur  :  qui  cu  eru- 
ditissimus  esset  vir :  multa  edidit  documeta  et  presertim  de  mundi 
creatione  eidem  in  carcere  reuelata.  passus  fuit  quartadecima  Kalendas 
octobris.  De  reuelatione  facta  Ab  angelo  beato  methodio  in  carcere 
deteto.  [Colophon.]  Finit  Basilee  per  Michaclem  Fiirter  opera  et 
vigilantia  Sebastiani.  Brant.  Anno  \/\C)%.  Nonis  Januariis.  4to.  Wood- 
cuts.   BR.  M. 

a — g  in  eights  ;  h  and  i  in  sixes. 

MEUN,  Jan  de.  Le  Dodechedron  de  Fortvne.  Livre  non  moins 
plaisant  &  recreatif,  que  subtil  &  ingenieux  entre  tous  les  ieux  & 
passetemps  de  Fortune.  Autresfois  compose  par  feu  M.  Ian  de  Meun, 
pour  le  Roy  Charles  le  quint,  &  nouuellement  mis  en  lumiere.  Par. 
F.  G.  L.  [Francois  Gruget.]  A  Paris.  Pour  Gillcs  Robinot  .... 
1556.    4to. 

a  &  e,  4  leaves  each  ;  1,  6  leaves  ;  A — S  in  fours  ;  also  a  large  folding  leaf  before 
p.  I,  entitled,  "  Ordre  des  qvestions,"  which  is  unmentioned  by  Brunet. 

MEUSELIUS  BIBLIOTHECA  HISTORICA.    See  Striiviits. 

MEXIA.  Libro  intitulado  nobiliario  perfetamente  copylado  & 
ordenado  por  el  onrriado  cauallero  Feranto  Mexia  veynte  quatro  de 

5  U 


962  MEXIA—MIDDLETON. 

J  alien  &c.  [Colophon.]  Acabosela  presente  obra  sabado  xxx.  dejunio. 
alio  dela  incarnacion :  de  milly  .cccc  .  xcii.  arws.  Enla  muy  noble  y  Ileal 
qibdad  d'  scuilla  inpressa  por  llos  onrrados  varoncs  maestros.  Pedro  brun. 
Jud  gentil.  fid  &■  verdadcramente  corrcgida  &c.    Folio. 

a,  6  leaves  ;  b — m  in  eights,  except  i,  which  has  ten  leaves. 

MEXIA,  Pedro.  The  Forest  or  Collection  of  Historyes  no  lesse 
profitable  then  pleasant  and  necessary,  doone  out  of  Frenche  into 
English  by  Thomas  Fortescue.  Ant  vtile,  ant  iuaindnm,  ant  vtrumq; 
Scene  and  allowed.  Imprinted  at  London  by  John  Day  dwelling  oner 
Aldersgate.     1576.    4to.    Black  letter.    R. 

Title  within  a  woodcut  border,  with  the  arms  of  Fortescue  on  the  back,  i  leaf ; 
dedication  to  John  Fortescue,  Esquire,  Master  of  the  Queen's  Wardrobe,  2  leaves; 
To  the  Gentle  Reader,  and  "  an  aduertisement  (in  verse)  written  by  the  translator 
to  his  booke,"  3  leaves  ;  A — Qq  3  in  fours. 

Second  edition,  the  first  having  appeared  in  1571. 

MEYER,  Conrad.  Spiegel  der  Christen,  das  ist  bedenkliche 
Figuren  und  Erinerungen  iiber  die  Beriiffs  pflichten  aller  Standen. 
Zurich.    1652-60.    Folio. 

Sixteen  leaves,  with  title  and  list  of  plates. 

MEYRICK,  S.  R.  The  Costume  of  the  Original  Inhabitants  of 
the  British  Islands  ....  By  Samuel  Rush  Meyrick  .  .  .  and  Charles 
Hamilton  Smith  .  .  .  London  .  .  .  1815.  4to.  Large  paper.  Coloured 
plates. 

MEYSSENS,  Jean.  Les  Effigies  des  Sovverains  Princes  et  Dvcs 
de  Brabant  avec  levr  chronologie,  armes  et  devises.    Anvers.    \s.  d.'\ 

Two  engraved  titles  and  i,\portraits. Effigies  des  Forestiers  et  Comtes 

de  Flandres Anvers.    1663.    Engraved  title  and  47  portraits. 

Les  Povrtraits  des  Sovverains  Princes  et  Comtes  de  Hollande. 

Anvers.   1662.    Engraved  title  and  Ap portraits.    Folio.    BL.  M. 

MEZERAY,  E.  DE.  Histoire  de  la  mere  et  du  fils,  C'est  a  dire  De 
Marie  de  Medicis Atnsterdajn.    1730.    2  vols.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

MIDDLETON,  Christopher.    The  Legend  of  Hvmfrey,  Dvke 

of  Gloucester.    By  Chri.  Middleton.    London,  Printed  by  E.  A.  for 

Nicholas  Ling,  and  arc  to  be  solde  at  his  shop  at  the  west  doore  of  S. 

Paules  Church.    1600.    4to.    In  verse. 

A— F  in  fours.     A  poem  written  in  the  first  person  on  the  plan  of  "The  Mirror 
for  Magistrates." 

MIDDLETON,  Thomas.  The  Wisdome  of  Solomon  Paraphrased. 
Written  by  Thomas  Middleton.    A  Jone  siirgit  opus.    Printed  at  Lon- 


MIDDLETON.  963 

don  by  Valentine  Seins,  dwelling  on  Adling  hil  at  the  signe  of  t lie  white 
Sivamie.    1597.    4to.    R.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  A  and  A  2  blank ;  B — Bb  2  in  fours,  no  sig.  Z. 

Dedicated  by  Middleton  to  Robert,  Earl  of  Essex.  In  the  dedication  he  says  : 
"  I  haue  scattred  a  few  seedes  vpon  the  yong  ground  of  vnskilfulnesse,"  and  a 
little  further  on  he  adds  :  "  My  seedes,  as  yet,  lodge  in  the  bosome  of  the  earth,  like 
Infantes  vpon  the  lappe  of  a  Fauourite,  wanting  the  budding  spring-time  of  their 
growth  .  .  .  .  "  In  the  address  to  the  reader,  the  author  speaks  of  this  as  his  first 
work. 

MIDDLETON,  Thomas.     The  Famelie  of  Love.     Acted  by  the 

Children  of  his  Maiesties  Reuells At  London  Printed  for 

John  Helnies,  and  are  to  be  sold  in  Saint  Dimstans  Churchyard  in  Fleet- 
street.    1608.    4to.    G.  M. 

A — I  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank.     First  edition. 

In  a  Notice  to  the  Reader  on  the  back  of  the  title  the  author  says  :  "  Too  soone 
and  too  late,  this  work  is  published :  Too  soone,  in  that  it  was  in  the  Presse,  before 
I  had  notice  of  it,  by  which  meanes  some  faults  may  escape  in  the  Printing.  Too 
late,  for  that  it  was  not  published  when  the  general  voice  of  the  people  had  seald  it 
for  good,  and  the  newnesse  of  it  made  it  much  more  desired,  then  at  this  time." 

Michaelmas  Terme.   As  it  hath  beene  svndry  times  acted  by 

the  Children  of  Paules.  At  London,  Printed  for  A.[rthnr]  /.[ohnson] 
and  are  to  be  sould  at  the  signe  of  the  white  horse  in  Panics  Church- 
yard.   An.  1607.    4to. 

A — I  in  fours.     First  edition. 

Michaelmas  Term.    As  it  hath  beene  svndry  times  Acted 

by  the  Children  of  Pavles.    Newly  corrected.    London :  Printed  by 

T.  H.  for  R.  Meiglicn,   and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop,  next  to  the 

Middle-Temple  Gate,  and  in  S.  Dunstans  Church-yard  in  Fleet-street. 

1630.    4to. 

A — I  in  fours. 

The  Phoenix,  as  It  hath  beene  sundry  times  Acted  by  the 


Children  of  Paules,  And  presented  before  his  Maiestie.  London 
Printed  by  E.  A.  for  A,  I,  and  are  to  be  solde  at  the  signe  of  the  white 
Jwrse  in  Paules-Churchyard.     1607.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — K  2  in  fours,  besides  a  leaf  with  the  Prologue  and  Epilogue  inserted  in  the 
present  copy  at  the  end,  although  the  following  notice  is  printed  at  the  foot  of  the 
leaf :  "  This  Epilogue  should  haue  bene  printed  at  the  end  of  the  booke,  but  there 
was  no  spare  place  for  it."     First  edition. 

A  Tricke  to  catch  the  Old-one.     As  it  hath  been  often  in 


action,  both  at  Paules,  and  the  Black-Fryers.  Presented  before  his 
Majestic  on  New-yeares  night  last.  Composed  by  T.  M.  At  London. 
Printed  by  G.  E.  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Henry  Rocky tt,  at  the  long  shop  in 
the  Poult ric  under  the  Dyall,  1608.    4to. 


964  MIDDLETON. 

A — H  in  fours. 

Two  title-pages  were  printed  to  this  edition— a  circumstance  of  which  Mr.  Dyce 
was  not  aware— but  which  was  the  earher  one  it  would  be  impossible  to  say  with 
certainty.  The  other  merely  names  the  printer,  and  does  not  specify  by  whom  the 
book  was  sold. 

MIDDLETON,  Thomas.  A  Mad  World,  My  Masters.  As  it 
hath  bin  lately  in  Action  by  the  Children  of  Paules.  Composed  by 
T.  M.  London,  Printed  by  H.  B.for  Walter  Bvrre,  and  are  to  be  sold 
in  Paules  Church-yard,  at  the  signe  of  the  Crane.    1608.    4to. 

A — I  2  in  fours. 

A  Mad  World  my  Masters  :  a  Comedy.   As  it  hath  bin  often 

Acted  at  the  Private  House  in  Salisbury  Court,  by  her  Majesties  Ser- 
vants. Composed  by  T.  M.  Gent.  London  :  Printed  for  J.  S.  and  are 
to  be  sold  by  James  Becket,  at  his  Shop  in  the  inner  Temple  Gate. 

1640.    4to. 

A — K  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Civitatis  Amor.    The  Cities  Loue.    An  entertainement  by 

water,  at  Chelsey,  and  White-hall.  At  the  ioyfull  receiuing  of  that 
Illustrious  Hope  of  Great  Britaine,  the  High  and  Mighty  Charles,  To 
bee  created  Prince  of  Wales,  Duke  of  Cornewall,  Earle  of  Chester,  &c. 
Together  with  the  Ample  Order  and  Solemnity  of  his  Highnesse 
creation,  as  it  was  celebrated  in  his  Maiesties  Palace  of  White-hall  on 
Monday,  the  fourth  of  Nouember.  1616.  As  also  the  Ceremonies  of 
that  Ancient  and  Honourable  Order  of  the  Knights  of  the  Bath  ;  And 
all  the  Triumphs  showne  in  honour  of  his  Royall  Creation.  London, 
Printed  by  Nicholas  Okes  for  Thomas  Archer,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his 
shop  in  Popes-hcad-Pallace.     16 1 6.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — C  in  fours,  first  leaf  blank. 

From  Sir  Francis  Freeling's  and  Dr.  Bandinel's  libraries,  with  a  very  fine  im- 
pression of  the  portrait  of  Prince  Charles  by  Delaram  inserted.  It  was  presented 
to  Freeling  by  Dr.  Dibdin,  and  is  probably  the  copy  described  in  Thorpe's  catalogue 
for  1824.  It  is  in  fine  condition;  but  there  is  a  second  copy  in  the  library  which  is 
even  taller  and  finer  than  this.  Middleton  subscribes  his  name  at  the  end  of  the 
entertainment ;  the  account  of  the  Creation  of  the  Prince  was  probably  written  by 
another  pen. 

A  Game  at  Chesse  as  It  hath  bine  sundrey  times  Acted  at 

The  Globe  on  the  Banck  side.  Ghedruckt  in  Lydden  by  Ian  Masse. 
[1625.]    4to. 

A — I  in  fours,  with  the  title-page  engraved  on  copper. 

Though  Mr.  Dyce  has  pointed  out  that  while  two  of  the  three  known  editions 
have  the  same  engraved  title,  it  was  re-engraved,  with  variations,  for  the  third,  this 
fact  is  not  recorded  in  any  bibliographical  work.    Not  only  does  the  print  vary,  but 


MI  DDL  E  TON— MID  GLEY.  965 

the  wording  of  the  title  is  different.  The  edition  described  above  is  that  which 
is  mentioned  by  Mr.  Dyce  as  the  most  correct  text,  and  distinguished  by  him  as  the 
"  C  edition."  The  titles  of  the  other  editions  run  :  "  A  Gam"  at  Chsess  as  it  was  Acted 
nine  days  together  at  the  Globe  on  the  banks  side,"  without  any  imprint.  These  have 
every  appearance  of  having  been  printed  in  England,  but  that  described  above  was 
probably  executed  abroad.  By  "  Lydden,"  we  may,  no  doubt,  understand  Leyden 
as  the  place  where  it  was  printed.  It  is  remarkable  that  such  being  the  case  it  is  so 
much  more  correct  than  the  editions  which  appear  to  have  been  printed  in  London. 
Mr.  Dyce  mentions  that  Mr.  J.  P.  Collier  was  in  possession  of  a  printed  title  with 
the  date  of  1625,  but  no  copy  with  a  printed  title  is  now  known.  In  Mr.  Dyce's  edi- 
tion of  the  author's  works  may  be  found  a  full  account  of  the  play  and  of  the  circum- 
stances connected  with  the  first  performance  of  it.  The  frontispiece  to  the  Leyden 
copy  has  only  two  large  full-length  figures  in  the  foreground,  and  above  them  is 
inscribed  respectively, "  the  White  Hous  "  and  "  the  Black  Hous,"  while  in  the  back- 
ground are  the  same  two  figures  standing  in  a  large  sack.  The  other  frontispiece, 
of  which  a  facsimile  is  given  in  Mr.  Dyce's  edition  of  Middleton's  works,  is  in  two 
compartments.  In  the  uppfer  one  are  eight  persons  seated  at  a  table  with  a  chess- 
board in  the  centre,  and  in  the  lower  compartment  are  three  full-length  figures 
headed,  "  the  Fatte  Bishop,"  "  the  Black  Knight,"  and  "  the  White  Knight."  In  the 
background  are  the  three  figures  in  a  sack. 

MIDDLETON,  Thomas.  Two  New  Playes.  viz.  More  Dissem- 
blers besides  Women.  Women  beware  Women.  Written  by  Tho. 
Middleton,  Gent.  London,  Printed  for  Humphrey  Moseley  and  are  to  be 
sold  at  Ids  Shop  at  the  Prince's  Arms  in  St.  Paul's  Churchyard.  1657. 
Sm.  8vo. 

A,  4  leaves ;  B— O  3  in  eights.  With  a  portrait  of  Middleton,  a  three-quarter  in 
an  oval  of  bays,  with  "  vera  Effigies  Tho  :  Midletoni  Gent"  beneath,  but  no  artist's 
name. 

The  above  is  the  general  title  to  the  volume,  but  each  of  the  plays  has  a  separate 
one  of  its  own.  At  the  end  is  a  long  catalogue  of  advertisements.  The  portrait  is 
copied  in  Dyce's  edition  of  the  poet's  works. 

From  Mr.  Daniel's  library. 

The  Mayor  of  Quinborough :  A  Comedy.    As  it  hath  been 

often  Acted  with  much  Applause  at  Black-Fryars,  By  His  Majesties 
Servants.  Written  by  Tho.  Middleton.  London,  Printed  for  Henry 
Herringmaii  .  .  .  1661.    4to. 

A — K  2  in  fours. 

The  first  edition,  but  written  in  or  before  1626,  if  Mr.  Dyce  be  correct  in  suppos- 
ing that  the  dramatist  died  in  that  year. 

MIDGLEY,  Samuel.  The  History  Of  the  Famous  Town  of 
Hallifax  in  Yorkshire  ....  London  Printed :  And  Sold  by  E.  Tracy 
....   1712.    Sm.  8vo.    R. 

A — H  6  in  twelves,  besides  the  frontispiece. 

Published  by  William  Bently,  who  does  not  name  the  author,  being  apparently 
desirous  to  pass  off  the  work  as  his  own. 


966  MID-NIGHT— MILL. 

MID-NIGHTS  WATCH,  The,  or  Robin  Good-Fellow  His 
serious  Observation :  Wherein  is  discovered  the  true  state  and  strength 
of  the  Kingdome  as  at  this  day  it  stands,  without  either  Faction  or 
Affection.    London,  Printed  for  George  Lindsey,  1643.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

MILITARY  ART.  The  A,  B,  C,  of  Armes,  or.  An  Introduction 
Directorie  ;  whereby  the  order  of  Militarie  exercises  may  easily  bee 
vnderstood,  and  readily  practised,  where,  when,  and  howsoeuer  occa- 
sion is  offered.  By  I.  T.  Gent.  Nomcn  &  officinm  militicE  dchonestatit 
imperiti.  London,  Printed  by  IV.  Std?isby,  for  lohn  Hclmcs,  and  are  to 
be  sold  at  his  shop  in  S.  Dunstane  Chureh-yard  in  Fleet-street,  16 16. 

Sm.  8vo. 

A— C  7  in  eights,  title  on  A  2. 

The  Military  Art  of  Trayning,  with  a  Description  of  all  Mar- 

tiall  Officers,  their  Places,  Duties,  and  Hon"''^ :  Ceremonies,  from  a 
Generall  to  an  inferiour  Soldier.  With  The  Discipline  of  Drilling  both 
for  the  Musket  and  Pike,  the  Words  of  Command,  briefe  Instructions 
for  their  vse,  and  all  in  liuely  Portraytures  :  setting  out  the  particular 
Postures  of  euery  Motion.  London.  Printed  by  Edw:  All-de,  a?id 
are  to  bee  sold  in  Luinberd-street,  at  the  Signe  of  the  Angell,  by  Roger 
Daniell.    1622.    Sm.  8vo.    Plates. 

A — F  2  in  fours.  Then  comes  an  engraved  title :  "  The  Military  Discipline 
wherein  is  m"  Martially  shone  the  order  of  Drilling  for  y'  Musket  and  Pike.   1623. 

Set  forth  in  Postures  with  the  words  of  Command To  be  exercised 

in  Musters  By  order  from  y' Lords  of  his  Ma"":  most  Ho'''":  Privy  Counsaile. 
Are  to  be  sould  by  Roger  Daniell  .  .  .  .  "  This  title  is  followed  by  forty-three 
plates  for  the  use  of  the  musket  and  thirty-two  for  the  pike,  with  descriptions 
beneath  each. 

There  is  in  the  library  another  set  of  impressions  of  these  plates,  taken  off  four 
on  a  sheet  and  bound  up  without  any  letterpress.  These  impressions  appear  to  be 
rather  later  than  those  described  above. 

MILL,  Humphrey.  Poems  Occasioned  by  A  melancholy  vision 
vpon  diuers  Theames  Enlarged  Which  by  seuerall  Arguments  ensu- 
inge  is  showed  His  gandit  inusa  tenebris  By  H.  M.  London 
printed  by  J.  D.  for  Laurence  Blaikclocke  and  are  to  be  sould  at  his 
shopp  at  the  siiger  loofe  next  Temple  barr  in  Fleet  street  1639.  Sm. 
8vo.    BL.  M. 

A,  8  leaves,  including  the  title  (engraved  by  Droeshout),  and  "  The  mind  of  the 
Frontispiece; "  a,  8  leaves  ;  B — Q  in  eights.  On  li  is  a  letterpress  title,  "  Poems 
Pleasant  and  Profitable,"  &c. 

The  Bibliotheca  Anglo-poetica  copy,  afterwards  Heber's  and  Corser's.  The 
book  is  dedicated  to  the  Earl  of  VVinchilsea. 


MILL—MILLES.  967 

MILL,  Humphrey.  A  Nights  Search.  Discovering  the  Nature 
and  Condition  of  all  sorts  of  Night-Walkers;  with  their  Associates. 
As  also,  The  Life  and  Death  of  many  of  them.  Together  with  Divers 
fearfull  and  strange  Accidents,  occasioned  by  such  ill  livers.  Digested 
into  a  Poeme  By  Humphry  Mill.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  by  Ricliard 
Bishop  for  Laurence  B laic k lock  at  the  Siigar-loafe  next  Teniple-Barre, 
1640.    Sm.  8vo.   BL.  M. 

):(,  8  leaves,  including  the  engraved  title  by  Droeshout,  the  printed  title,  and 
a  leaf  of  metrical  explanation;  A — V  in  eights,  e.xcept  that  in  this  copy  H  has  10 
leaves,  H  3-4  being  repeated. 

Dedicated  to  Robert,  Earl  of  Essex.  This  was  the  Townley  copy,  after\vards 
Heber's  and  Corser's.  Heber,  having  purchased  this  first  part  at  the  Townley 
sale,  joined  it  to  his  second  part  from  the  "  Bibliotheca  Anglo-poetica  "  (see  next 
article). 

The  Second  Part  of  The  Nights  Search :  Discovering  The  Con- 


dition of  the  various  Fowles  of  Night.  Or,  The  second  great  Mystery 
of  Iniquity  exactly  revealed  :  With  the  Projects  of  these  Times.     In  a 

Poem,  By  Humphrey  Mill,  Author  of  the  Nights  Search London, 

Printed  for  Henry  Shepheard,  and  William  Ley,  and  are  to  be  sold  at 
the  Bible  in  Toivcr-street,  and  at  Pauls  Chaine  neer  Doctors  Commons. 
1646.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — L  4  in  eights,  including  the  engraved  and  printed  titles  and  explanation;  a 
leaf  unmarked  and  unpaged  between  150  and  151,  and  then  M,  7  leaves. 

Dedicated  to  Lord  Warwick.  The  frontispiece  has  no  engraver's  name  ;  in  the 
upper  centre  it  contains  a  small  head  of  the  author. 

This  copy  is  accompanied  by  a  duplicate  printed  title,  dated  1652,  and  evidently 
intended  to  serve  for  the  two  parts  bound  together.  It  runs  :  "  The  Nights  Search  : 
Or,  The  cunning  Curtizan  discovered  ;  and  The  great  Mystery  of  Iniquity  exactly 

revealed Printed  for  William  Ley,  at  Paul's  Chaine  neer  Doctors  Commons. 

1652."     A  plate  of  a  woman  with  a  torch  is  also  inserted. 

See  the  "  Bibliotheca  Anglo-poetica,"  Nos.  468-70.  Prefixed  to  the  first  part  of 
the  "  Night's  Search "  are  some  commendatory  verses  by  the  author's  brother, 
Thomas  Mill,  M.A.,  of  Oxford,  and  by  Thomas  Heyvvood,  who  addresses  Mill  as 
"  my  adopted  sonne."  In  the  "  British  Bibliographer,"  ii.,  328-36,  is  a  long  review 
of  this  work  by  Joseph  Haslewood. 

MILLES,  Thomas.     Nobilitas  Politica  vel  Civilis.    Personas  sci- 
licet Distinguendi,  et  ab  origine  inter  Gentes,  ex  Principum  gratia 

nobilitandi  forma Londini 1608.    Folio.    R.  M. 

A,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank;  B — R  in  sixes,  and  a  last  leaf  not  paged.  There  are 
plates  of  costume,  which  are  printed  on  the  letterpress,  and  a  separate  print  of  the 
House  of  Lords  at  p.  126. 

The  Catalogve  of  Honor,  or  Tresvry  of  Trve  Nobility.   Pecv- 

liar  and  proper  to  the  Isle  of  Great  Britaine.  That  is  to  say :  A  Col- 
lection historicall  of  all  the  free  Monarches  aswell  Kinges  of  England 


968  MILLES— MILTON. 

as  Scotland  ....  Whervnto  is  properly  prefixed:  A  speciall  Treatise 
of  that  kind  of  Nobility  which  Soverayne  Grace,  and  fauor,  and  Con- 
tryes  Customes,  haue  made  meerly  Politicall  and  peculiarly  Civill  .... 
Translated  out  of  Latyne  into  English.  London.  Printed  by  Williajn 
laggard.     i6io.    Folio.    Large  paper.    R. 

The  title  is  engraved  by  Renold  Elstrack.  Pp.  493-4  are  unmutilated.  From 
Miss  Richardson-Currer's  library. 

MILLES,  Thomas.  The  Cvstvmers  Alphabet  and  Primer.  Con- 
teining.  Their  Creede  or  Beliefe  in  the  true  Doctrine  of  Christian 
Religion.  Their  Ten  Commandmentes,  or  Rules  of  Ciuill  life  and 
Conuersation,  daily  Grace,  generall  Confession,  speciall  Supplication 
and  Forme  of  Prayers.  Togither  With  a  pertinent  Answere  to  All  such, 
as  eyther  in  iest  or  in  earnest,  seeming  doubtfull  themselues,  would 
fain  perswade  others,  that,  the  bringing  home  of  Traffique  must  neede 
decay  our  Shipping.  All  tending  to  the  true  and  assured  aduancement 
of  his  Maiesties  Customes,  without  possibility  of  fraude  or  Couyn. 
Alwaies  prouided,  In  reading  Read  all,  or  nothing  at  al.  Adsit 
Regvla.     [Without  place  or  printer's  name.']    1608.    Folio. 

A — L,  2  leaves  each.     Dedicated  to  Thomas,  Lord  Buckhurst. 

Privately  printed.  The  present  was  the  presentation  copy  to  Lord  Northampton, 
and  has  in  the  author's  autograph  at  the  foot  of  the  title  :  "  For  my  Lord  of  North- 
ampton L:  Warden  of  the  cinq-Portes.     T.  M." 

MILTON,  John.  The  Poetical  Works  of  John  Milton.  With  the 
principal  notes  of  various  commentators.  Edited  by  H.  J.  Todd. 
London.    1801.    6  vols.    Royal  8vo.    Large  paper.    R. 

The  Prose  works  of  John  Milton  ;  with  a  life  of  the  author, 

by  Charles  Symmons.  London.  1806.  7  vols.  Royal  8vo.  Large 
paper.    R. 

Paradise  Lost  [with  Paradise  Regained  and  the  Minor  Poems.] 

.  .  .  From  the  Text  of  Thomas  Newton,  D.D.  Birmingham  :  Printed 
by  John  Baskerville,for  J.  and  R.  Tonson,  in  London.  1760.  2  vols. 
Royal  8vo.    R.  M. 

A  Maske  presented  At  Ludlow  Castle,  1634 :  On  Michael- 

masse  night,  before  the  Right  Honorable,  lohn  Earle  of  Bridgewater, 
Vicount  Brackly,  Lord  Praesident  of  Wales,  And  one  of  His  Maiesties 
most  honorable  Privie  Counsell. 

Elieii  quid  volui  misero  mihi  !  jloribus  austrum 
Perditus — 
London,  Printed  for  Hvmphrey  Robinson,  at  the  signe  of  the  Three 
Pidgeons  in  Pauls  Church-yard.    1637.    4to.    G.  M. 
A,  2  leaves ;  B — F  2  in  fours. 


MIL  TON.  969 

First  edition.  Dedicated  by  H.  Lawes  to  "  lohn  Lord  Vicount  Bracley,  Son  and 
hcire  apparent  to  the  Earle  of  Bridgewater,  &c." 

In  the  dedication,  Lawes  says  that  it  was  "not  openly  acknowledg'd  by  the 
Author,"  and  that  the  pubhcation  of  the  piece  was  occasioned  by  the  trouble  which 
he  had  in  making  transcripts  from  the  original  MS.  to  give  away  to  friends.  This 
is  probably  what  is  meant  in  the  letter  mentioned  by  Lowndes,  p.  1562,  col.  2. 

MILTON,  John.  Justa  Edovardo  King  naufrago,  ab  Amicis 
moerentibus,  amoris  &  ^vEi'aj  x^P'"- 

Si  rectb  calculiini  pottos,  tibiqtie  naufragium  est. 
Pet.  Arb. 
CantabrigicB :  Apud  Thomam  Buck,  &  Rogerum  Daniel,  celeberrimce 
Academics:  typographos.    1638.    4to. 

A — I  2  in  fours,  but  E  has  6  leaves. 

The  first  edition  of  Milton's  "  Lycidas  "  is  contained  in  this  volume.  Prefixed  is 
an  account  of  King  in  Latin,  printed  in  capitals,  and  supposed  by  Warton  to  have 
been  written  either  by  Milton  or  Henry  More,  the  Platonist.  The  volume  is  divided 
into  two  portions,  the  first  containing  the  Latin  and  Greek  tributes,  the  second, 
those  in  English,  with  a  separate  title  :  "  Obsequies  to  the  memorie  of  Mr.  Edward 
King,  Anno  Dom.  1638."  Among  the  \vriters  of  the  English  elegies  are  Henry  King, 
John  Cleveland,  and  J.[ohn]  H.[all,  of  Cambridge.''].  Milton's  "  Lycidas "  appro- 
priately crowns  the  collection,  coming  last  in  order.     It  bears  only  his  initials. 

Poems  of  Mr.  John  Milton,  both  Enghsh  and  Latin,  Com- 

pos'd  at  several  times.  Printed  by  his  true  Copies.  The  Songs  were 
set  in  Musick  by  Mr.  Henry  Lawes  Gentleman  of  the  Kings  Chappel, 
and  are  of  his  Maiesties  Private  Musick. 

Baccare  frontem 

Cingite,  ne  rati  noceat  mala  lingua  fitturo, 
Virgil,  Eclog.  7. 

Printed  and  publish' d  according  to  Order.  London,  Printed  by  Ruth 
Raworth  for  Humphrey  Moselcy 1645.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — H  4  in  eights,  besides  a,  3  leaves  with  title,  &c. ;  A — F  4  in  eights.  With  a 
jxirtrait  by  W.  Marshall 

"  Marshall's  portrait  of  Milton,  says  Granger,  was  the  first  print  of  him  ever 
published.  Salmasius  in  his  '  Defensio  Regia,'  calls  it  coinptitla  Iconem,  and  says 
it  gave  him  a  more  advantageous  idea  of  his  person  than  he  ever  had  before  ;  but 
that  this  opinion  ill  coincided  with  Milton's,  is  sufficiently  proved  by  the  Greek 
verses  under  the  portrait,  and  of  which  the  following  sentence  is  a  translation  :  'Will 
any  one  say  that  this  portrait  was  the  work  of  an  ingenious  hand  ;  my  very  friends, 
looking  at  my  own  natural  countenance,  knew  not  whom  it  represents,  but  laugh 
at  the  awkward  imitation  of  the  idiotic  artist.'  This  is  probably  too  satirical." — • 
Bibl.  Anglo-Poetica.  It  is  quite  plain  that  Salmasius  spoke  ironically,  which  the 
writer  of  this  note  failed  to  perceive. 

Poems,  &c.  upon  Several  Occasions.    By  Mr.  John  Milton  : 


Both  English  and   Latin,  &c.  Composed  at  several  times.    With  a 

5  X 


970  MIL  TON. 

small  Tractate  of  Education  To  Mr.  Hartlib.  Lo?idon,  Printed  for  Tho. 
Bring.  ....  1673.    8vo.    BL.  M. 

Title  and  table,  4  leaves,  and  A— S  in  eights. 

MILTON,  John.  Paradise  lost.  A  Poem  Written  in  ten  Books 
By  John  Milton.  Licensed  and  Entred  according  to  Order.  London 
Printed,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Peter  Parker  under  Creed  Church  neer 
Aldgate;  And  by  Robert  Boulter  at  the  Turks  Head  in  Bishopsgate- 
strect;  And  Matthias  Walker,  under  St.  Duns  tons  Church  in  Fleet- 
street,  \66y.    4to.    BL.  M. 

A— Vv  2  in  fours,  and  the  title-page. 

First  issue  of  the  first  edition,  without  any  preliminary  matter. 

Paradise  lost.     A  Poem  in  ten  Books.    The  Author  John 

Milton.  London,  Printed  by  S.  Simmons,  and  to  be  sold  by  S.  Thomson 
at  the  Bishops-Head  in  Duck-lane,  H.  Mortlack  at  the  White  Hart  in 
Westminster  Hall,  M.  Walker  binder  St.  Dunstans  Church  in  Fleet- 
street,  and  R.  Boulter  at  the  Turks-Head  in  Bishopsgate  street,  1668. 
4to.    BL.  M. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  a,  4  leaves  ;  A— Vv  2  in  fours. 

The  first  edition,  with  a  fourth  title-page  and  the  first  issue  to  which  the  poet 
annexed  the  Arguments  of  the  ten  books,  a  Note  on  the  Verse,  and  a  list  of  errata. 
The  body  of  the  volume  is  identical  with  the  other  issues  of  1667,  1668,  and  1669. 

Paradise   Lost.     A  Poem  in  Twelve  Books.     The   Author 

John  Milton.  The  Third  Edition.  Revised  and  Augmented  by  the 
same  Author.  London,  Printed  by  S.  Simtnotis  next  door  to  t/ie  Golden 
Lion  in  Aldersgate-street,  1678.    8vo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B— Y  in  eights,  last  two  leaves  blank.  With  a  portrait  by  W. 
DoUe,  yEtat.  63,  167 1. 

Paradise  Lost  in  Ten  Books.    The  Text  exactly  reproduced 


from  the  first  edition  of  1667.  With  an  Appendix  containing  the 
Additions  made  in  Later  Issues  and  a  Monograph  on  the  Original 
Publication  of  the  Poem.    London  .  .  .  1873.    4to.    Large  paper. 

Paradise  Regained.   A  Poem.    In  IV.  Books.    To  which  is 


added  Samson  Agonistes.  The  Author  John  Milton.  London,  Printed 
by  J.  M.  for  John  Starkey  at  the  Mitre  in  Fleetstreet,  near  Temple- 
Bar.    1671.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  imprimatur,  2  leaves ;  B— P  4  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  having  the  errata. 

First  edition.  After  line  537  in  "  Samson  Agonistes,"  11  lines  were  accidentally 
omitted  ;  these  are  inserted  in  their  proper  place  in  the  next  impression.  From 
Mr.  Daniel's  collection. 

Paradise  Regain'd.     A  Poem.    In  IV.  Books.    To  which  is 


MIL  TON—MINNE  SINGER  S.  97 1 

added  Samson  Agonistes.  The  Author  John  Milton.  London,  Printed 
for  John  Starkey 1680.    Sm.  8vo.     BL.  M. 

A — 1 4  in  eights,  the  first  leaf  having  only  the  imprimatur  and  the  two  last  a  list 
of  advertisements. 

MILTON,  John.  The  Doctrine  and  Disciph'ne  of  Divorce;  Re- 
stor'd  to  the  good  of  both  Sexes,  From  the  Bondage  of  Canon  Law 
....  Now  the  second  time  Revis'd,  and  much  Augmented,  In  Two 
Books :  To  the  Parhament  of  England,  with  the  Assembly.  The  Author 
J.  M.  .  .  .  London:  Imprinted  in  the  Year  164^.    4to. 

A — M  I  in  fours. 

Tetrachordon  :  Expositions  upon  The  foure  chief  places  in 

Scripture,  which  treat  of  Manage,  or  nullities  in  Mariage.  .  .  .  Wherin 
the  Doctrine  and  Discipline  of  Divorce,  as  was  lately  publish'd  is  con- 
firmed by  explanation  of  Scripture  .  .  .  And  lastly,  by  an  intended 
Act  of  the   Parlament  and  Church  of  England   in  the  last  yeare  of 

Edward  the  Sixth.    By  the  former  Author  J.  M London:  Printed 

in  the  yeare  1645.    4to. 

A — O  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Iconoclastes  in  Answer  to  a  Book,  intitl'd  Eikon  Basilike, 

The  Portraiture  of  his  Sacred  Majesty  in  his  Solitude  and  Sufferings 

The  Author  I.  M Published  by  Authority.    London,  Printed  by 

Mattliew  Simmons.  .  .  .  1649.    4to. 

Title,  with  blank  before  it,  2  leaves  ;  B — Kk  2  in  fours. 

MINERVA.  The  High-Dutch  Grammer,  Teaching  The  English- 
man perfectly,  easily  and  exactly  the  neatest  Dialect  of  the  High- 
German  Language.  To  which  is  added  The  High-Dutch  and  English 
Idioms  Dialogue-wise  both  in  High-Dutch  and  English.  London, 
Printed  for  Will.  Cooper  at  the  Pellican  in  Little  Britain.  1685.  Sm. 
8vo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  14  leaves,  including  an  engraved  frontispiece  ;  D — Z  2 
in  sixes. 

At  the  foot  of  a  sort  of  dedicatory  title  occurs  this  second  very  curious  imprint  : 
"London,  printed  in  L.  Britain,  and  to  be  sold  at  the  Rabbets  and  Harrow  in 
Jacksoiis  court  in  Blackfrayer.    i58o." 

MINNESINGERS.  Outlines  from  the  Illuminations  in  the  Manu- 
script collection  of  the  Songs  of  the  Minnesingers,  commonly  called 
The  Manesse  Manuscript,  No.  7266  in  the  King's  Library  at  Paris. 
A.D.  1 300- 1 320.     Folio. 

A  special  title  has  b;en  printed  to  this  volume,  which  is  a  series  of  eighty-nine 
original  drawings,  in  outline,  from  the  Paris  MS.  For  an  account  of  the  MS.,  see 
Taylor's  "  Lays  of  the  Minnesingers,"  8vo,  1825,  where  nine  of  these  illustrations 
are  given  on  a  reduced  scale. 


972  MI  NO  T—MIRABIL I  A. 

MINOT,  Laurence.  Poems  on  interesting  Events  in  the  Reign 
of  King  Edward  III.  Written  in  the  Year  MCCCLII.  With  a  Pre- 
face ....  [by  Joseph  Ritson.]    Lo?idon  .  .  .    I79S-    8vo.    G.  M. 

MINSHEU,  John.  Ductor  in  Linguas,  The  Gvide  into  Tongves. 
.  .  .  With  their  agreement  and  consent  one  with  another,  as  also  their 
Etymologies,  that  is,  the  Reasons  and  Deriuations  of  all  or  the  most 
part  of  wordes,  in  these  eleuen  Languages,  viz.  i.  English.   2.  British  or 

Welsh.  &c By  the  Industrie,  Studie,  Labour,  and  at  the  charges 

of  lohn  Minsheu  Published  and  Printed.  Anno  1617.  Cum  Gratia  &■ 
Prucilegio  Regies  Maiestatis  .  .  .  .  And  are  to  be  sold  at  lo/in  Brownes 
shop  a  Booke-Sellcr  in  little  Brittaine  in  London.    Folio. 

Title  and  dedications  to  Lord  Southampton  and  the  King,  3  leaves ;  A,  6  leaves  ; 
A  (repeated)— Zz  2  in  sixes  ;  [a  new  title  :]  Vocabvlarivm  Hispanicolatinvm  .  .  .  ., 
A— Q  2  in  sixes,  not  including  the  separate  title  to  the  vocabulary. 

MINUCIUS  FELIX.  Octavius,  cum  notis  variorum.  Litgd. 
Bat.  1709.    8vo. 

MIRABAUD,  M.  de.  Opinions  des  Anciens  sur  les  Juifs.  Lon- 
dres.    1769.    8vo.    GR.  M. 

Title  and  pp.  1-238. 

[MIRABILIA  Urbis  Romae.]  [On  the  verso  of  A  i.]  In  isto 
opuscule  dr  qiio  Romulus  &  Remus  nati  sunt  &  educati.  Et  postea 
Romulus  factus  est  primus  Romanoi;.  rex  &  coditor  romane  urbis : 
quo  &  q  diu  ipse  &  successores  sui  rexerunt.  Et  etia  de  imperatoribus 
romani  imperii  qualiter  impauerut  a  primo  lulio  Cesare  usq^  ad  tempus 
Constantini  magni  impatoris  qiio  Constantinus  a  lepra  est  curatus  &  a 
bto  Siluestro  baptizatus.  Quomodo  sctijs  Costantinus  ecclesiam  ro- 
manam  dotauit :  bto  Siluestro  oibusq,  suis  successoribus  romanis 
pontificibus  tota  Italiam :  oes  puincias  occidentales  :  regiones  loca  : 
ciuitates ;  insulas  que  circa  Italiam  sunt  pio  affectu  dedit.  De  indul- 
gentiis  oTm  ecclesiai^  &  reliquis  que  Rome  existunt.  De  stationibus  in 
eisdem  per  circulu  anni  &c  [Colophon.]  Inipressntn  Rome  in  Campo 
ffore per  Euchariu  Silber  al'as  Franck  Anno  dni  M .ccccc.vii.kaV .marci. 
Sm.  sqr.  8vo.     Woodcuts. 

A — H  iv  in  eights. 

The  recto  of  A  i  is  occupied  by  a  woodcut  of  Romulus  and  Remus.  On  the 
recto  of  C  i  is  a  woodcut  of  a  priest  displaying  the  handkerchief  of  S.  Veronica  to 
an  adoring  crowd,  and  on  the  verso  begins  the  hymn— 

"  Salue  sancta  facies  nostri  redemptoris 
In  qua  nitet  species  diuini  splendoris," 

after  which  follow  descriptions  of  the  different  churches  in  Rome  most  interesting 
to  pilgrims. 

The  little  volume  was  no  doubt  intended  as  a  guide  to  the  pilgrims  visiting 


MIRABILIA—MIRABILIS.  973 

Rome.  Bound  up  in  the  same  volume  are  the  following  pieces,  all,  except  the  last, 
in  the  same  type  and  probably  from  the  same  press.  All  are  without  date  or  indi- 
cation of  the  printer. 

1.  Modus  confitendi.  Beneath  this  title  a  woodcut  of  a  priest  hearing  a  con- 
fession.    12  leaves. 

2.  Interrogationes  &  doctrine  quibus  quilibet  sacerdos  debet  interrogare  suu 
confitentem.     8  leaves. 

3.  Coiuratio  malignol^  spirituu  in  corporibus  hominu  existentiu  prout  in  scto 
Petro.     8  leaves. 

4.  Orationes  sancte  Brigitte.  cum  oratione  sancti  Augustini.  Beneath  this  title 
a  woodcut  of  St.  Bridget  before  a  crucifix.     8  leaves. 

5.  Ecclesia  beate  Marie  de  Loreto  ....  A  tract  of  two  leaves  beginning  thus, 
and  describing  the  holy  House  of  Loreto. 

6.  Tabula  christiane  religionis  ualde  utilis  &  necessaria  cuilibet  christiano  ;  qua 
omnes  scire  tenentur.     18  leaves. 

7.  Diuisiones  dece  nationu  totius  christianitatis.  Four  leaves  printed  in  black 
letter,  all  the  other  pieces,  including  the  "  Mirabilia  Urbis  Romae,"  are  in  Roman 
t\pe. 

[MIRABILIA  Urbis  Romae.]  [Colophon.]  Impression  Rome  per 
Marcelluvi  Silber  ats  Franck.  Anno  dJii.  M.Djci.  die.  viii.  Januarij. 
Sm.  sqr.  8vo.    Black  letter.    Woodcuts. 

On  the  first  leaf  of  this  impression  is  the  same  woodcut  as  in  the  edition  described 
above,  but  over  it  is  the  title,  "Indulgentie  Ecclesiarum  Urbis  Rome."  On  the 
back  of  this  leaf  is  the  same  description  of  the  contents  of  the  book  as  is  given  in 
the  preceding  article,  beginning,  "  In  isto  opusculo."  On  the  recto  of  G  viii  is  the 
imprint.  This  is  followed  by  a  separate  sheet  of  eight  leaves,  with  the  title,  "  Mira- 
bilia Rome  "  and  the  same  woodcut  as  on  the  first  title.  The  mediaeval  legend  of 
Pope  Joan  is  given  in  this  edition  on  E  vi  and  in  the  edition  of  1507  on  the  verso 
of  Fi. 

MIRABILIS  Annvs,  or  The  year  of  Prodigies  and  Wonders, 
being  a  faithful  and  impartial  Collection  of  several  Signs  that  have 
been  seen  in  the  Heavens,  in  the  Earth,  and  in  the  Waters ;  together 
with  many  remarkable  Accidents  and  Judgments  befalling  divers 
Persons,  according  as  they  have  been  testified  by  very  credible  hands  ; 
all  which  have  happened  within  the  space  of  one  year  last  past  .... 
Printed  in  tlie  Year  1661.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — M  in  fours,  besides  a  double  frontispiece  on  two  pages. 

MIRABILIS  Annus  Secundus  ;  or.  The  Second  Year  Of  Prodigies. 
Being  A  true  and  impartial  Collection  of  many  strange  Signes  and 
Apparitions,  which  have  this  last  Year  been  seen  in  the  Heavens,  and 

in  the  Earth,  and  in  the  Waters Printed  in  the  Year,  1662.    4to. 

A — D  in  fours;  E,  i  leaf;  no  sig.  F;  G— N  i  in  fours. 

MIRABILIS  Annus  Secundus:  or,  The  Second  Part  Of  the  Second 
Years  Prodigies  ....  Printed  in  the  Year,  1662.    410. 
A — H  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 


974  MIR  A  CL  E—MIR  ROR. 

MIRACLE.  A  Miracle  of  Miracles:  Wrought  by  the  Blood  of 
King  Charles  the  First,  Of  happy  Memory.  Upon  a  Mayd  at  Detford 
foure  miles  from  London,  who  by  the  violence  of  the  Disease  called 
the  Kings  Evill  was  blinde  one  whole  yeere ;  but  by  making  use  of  a 
piece  of^Kandkircher  dipped  in  the  Kings  Blood  is  recovered  of  her 
sight.  To  the  comfort  of  the  Kings  friends,  and  astonishment  of  his 
Enemies.  The  truth  hereof  many  thousands  can  testifie.  London, 
Printed  Anno  Dom.  \6i,().    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

In  this  tract  Charles  I.  is  described  as  "a  Salomon,  for  wisdome ;  a  David,  for 
courage  ;  and  a  Job,  for  patience. " 

MIRACLE  PLAYS.  A  Collection  of  English  Miracle-Plays  and 
Mysteries ;  containing  ten  Dramas  from  the  Chester,  Coventry,  and 
Towneley  Series,  with  two  of  later  date.  To  which  is  prefixed  an 
Historical  View  of  this  Description  of  Plays.  By  William  Marriot, 
Ph.  D'.    Basel  .  .  .   1838.    8vo.    Large  paper. 

MIRACLES  OF  THE  BLESSED  VIRGIN.  Liber  miraculo- 
rum  domine  nostre  Sancte  Marie.    Sm.  folio.    R.  M. 

MS.  on  vellum,  written  in  England  at  the  end  of  the  12th  or  beginning  of  the 
13th  century. 

This  very  remarkable  manuscript  consists  of  a  number  of  original  tales  very 
much  in  the  style  of  the  "  Gesta  Romanorum."  One  relates  to  the  Abbot  of  Romsey. 
Another  gives  the  history  of  a  monk  who  was  much  given  to  lechery,  and  who  used 
frequently  to  pass  through  a  church  on  his  way  to  a  convent  of  nuns,  where  he  went 
with  no  good  purpose:  in  passing  through  the  church,  however,  he  never  omitted 
to  pay  his  homage  to  a  figure  of  the  Virgin  which  stood  there.  At  last  he  fell  into 
a  river  on  one  of  his  journeys,  and  his  soul  was  immediately  seized  by  the  devils, 
and  was  being  carried  off  to  hell,  when  the  Virgin  Mary  interposed,  and  rescuin;^' 
his  soul  from  the  devils,  restored  it  to  his  body  again  as  a  reward  for  the  devotion 
he  had  shown  to  her. 

Towards  the  end  of  the  volume  are  a  number  of  Latin  rhyming  hymns,  which 
appear  to  be  quite  different  to  those  commonly  known.  Many  of  them  are  written 
like  prose,  but  are  nevertheless  in  rhyme  all  throughout. 

MIRROR  FOR  MAGISTRATES.  A  Myrrovre  for  Magistrates. 
Wherein  may  be  seen  by  example  of  other,  with  howe  greuous  plages 
vices  are  punished  :  and  howe  frayle  and  vnstable  worldly  prosperitie 
is  founde,  even  of  those,  whom  Fortune  seemeth  most  highly  to  fauour. 
Fivlix  qneni  faciunt  ....  Anno.  1559.  Londini,  In  adibus  Tkovice 
Marshe.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  London  in  Fletestrete  nere  to  Saynct 
Diinstones  Church  by  Thomas  Marshe.    4to.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

Title  within  an  architectural  compartment,  i  leaf;  Baldwin's  Epistle,  2  leaves ;  A — 
N  2  in  fours  ;  a — g  in  fours.     N  2  ends  on  folio  48,  and  sig.  a  begins  with  folio  59. 

First  edition  of  the  first  part.  It  has  nineteen  legends  only,  though  twenty  are 
mentioned  in  the  table  at  the  end  of  the  volume.  It  is  the  legend  of  "  Good  duke 
Humfrey  murdered,  and  Elianor  his  wife  banished"  which  is  omitted.     Herbert's 


MIRROR.  975 

description  is  not  correct,  and  the  volume  contains  8i  leaves,  not  92,  as  stated  by 
Lowndes,  he  not  having  noticed  the  hiatus  in  the  folios. 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection.     See  "  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica,"  No.  437. 

MIRROR  FOR  MAGISTRATES.  A  Myrrovr  for  Magistrates. 
Wherein  maye  be  seen  by  example  of  other,  with  howe  greuous  plages 
vices  are  punished  :  and  howe  frayle  and  vnstable  worldly  prosperity 
is  founde,  even  of  those  whom  Fortune  seemeth  most  highly  to  fauour. 
Fixlix  qucm  faciunt  .  .  .  .  Antio.  1563.  Imprinted  at  Loiido7i  in  Flete- 
strete  7iere  to  Saynct  Dnnstaiis  Churche  by  Thomas  Marshe.  4to.  Black 
letter.   R.  M. 

Title  and  other  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B — Co  4  in  eights,  the  last 
leaf  with  the  errata. 

The  second  edition.  It  is  augmented  by  a  second  part,  which  begins  at  folio 
bcx.\vi.  (which  is  not  marked)  with  the  heading,  "  The  seconde  parte  of  the  Mirrour 
for  Magistrates,"  and  opens  with  a  preface  :  "  Wylliam  Baldwyn  to  the  Reader." 
The  preface  contains  many  interesting  particulars  relating  to  the  authorship  of  the 
legends  by  T.  Churchyard,  Dolman,  F.  Seagers,  and  Cavyl.  This  contains  eight 
additional  legends  exclusive  of  Lord  Buckhurst's  "  Induction." 

From  Mr.  Craufurd's  library. 

A  Myrrovr  for  Magistrates.  Wherein  may  be  seene  by  ex- 
amples passed  in  this  realme,  with  howe  greueous  plagues  vyces  are 
punished  ....  Newly  corrected  and  augmented.  Anno  i^ji.  Fcclix 
qiion  facinnt  .  .  .  Imprinted  at  London  by  Thomas  Marshe  dwellynge 
in  Fketcstreete,  neare  vnto  S.  Dustanes  Churche.  [Colophon.]  /;«- 
printed  at  London  by  Thomas  Marsh,  dwelling  in  Fleetstrete ;  neare 
vnto  Sainte  Dnnstanes  Cliurche.    1571.    4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

*,  4  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B — X  4  in  eights. 

The  third  edition.  A  reprint  of  that  of  1563.  The  legends  of  Duke  Humfrey 
and  Elyanor  Cobham  appear  in  the  table,  but  are  not  in  the  book. 

The  Last  parte  of  the  Mirour  for  Magistrates,  wherein  may 

be  seene  by  examples  passed  in  this  Realme,  with  howe  greuous 
plagues,  vices  are  punished  in  great  Princes  and  Magistrates  .... 
Newly  corrected  and  amended.  Fmlix  quern  faciunt  ....  Imprinted 
at  London  by  Thomas  Marshe.  An?w.  1574.  Cujn  Priuilegio.  4to. 
Black  letter.    R. 

*,  4  leaves,  with  the  title,  &c.  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B — X  in  eights. 

Fourth  edition.  A  reprint  of  the  edition  of  157 1,  except  that  the  legend  of  Lord 
Hastings  is  augmented  by  twenty-four  stanzas.  As  Marsh  printed  Higgins's  book, 
entitled,  "  The  first  part  of  the  Mirror,"  i&c,  to  accompany  this  volume,  he  gave  it 
the  title  of  "  The  Last  part,"  &c. 

The  First  parte  of  the  Mirour  for  Magistrates,  contayning  the 


falles  of  the  first  infortunate  Princes  of  this  lande :  From  the  comming 
of  Brute  to  the  incarnation  of  our  sauiour  and  redemer  lesu  Christe. 
[Quotation  from  St.   Paul's  Epistle  to  the  Romans.]    Imprinted  at 


976 


MIRROR. 


Londo7i  by  Tlwmas  Marshe.  Anno.  iSJS-    Cum  Pritiilegio.   4to.   Black 

letter.     R.  M. 

Title  within  a  woodcut  border,  i  leaf;  table,  i  leaf;  Higgins's  dedication  and  his 
epistle  to  the  reader,  4  leaves  ;  A— L  i  in  eights. 

The  first  edition  of  this  part  was  in  1574.  This  reprint  of  1575  contains  addi- 
tional stanzas  in  the  Tragedies  of  Nennius  and  Irenglas.  It  is  called  "  The  first 
part,"  because  it  relates  to  an  earlier  period  in  English  history.  John  Higgins,  who 
sign's  the  preface,  was  the  author  of  the  whole  of  this  volume.  From  Mr.  Craufurd's 
collection. 

MIRROR  FOR  MAGISTRATES.  The  Seconde  part  of  the 
Mirrour  for  Magistrates,  conteining  the  falles  of  the  infortunate  Princes 
of  this  Lande.  From  the  Conquest  of  Caesar,  vnto  the  commyng  of 
Duke  WiUiam  the  Conquerour.  Imprinted  by  Richard  Webster,  Anno 
Domini,  isyi.    Goe  straight  and feare  not.    4to.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

*,  4  leaves  ;  **,  2  leaves  ;  A— R  2  in  fours. 

This  is  the  part  written  by  Thomas  Blener  Hasset.  It  is  very  fully  described  in 
the  "  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica,"  where  the  very  interesting  epistle  from  "  The 
Printer  to  the  friendly  reader,"  is  printed  at  full.  The  legends  are  twelve  in  number, 
viz.,  "  Guidericus,"  "  Carassus,"  "  Oueene  Hellina,"  "  Vortiger,"  "  Uter  Pendragon," 
"  Cadwallader,"  "  Sigeberte,"  "Lady  Ebbe,"  "Alurede,"  "Egelrede,"  "  Edricus," 
and  "  King  Harolde." 

The  Mirour  for  Magistrates,  wherein  may  bee  seene,  by  ex- 
amples passed  in  this  Realme,  with  how  greeuous  plagues  vices  are 
punished  in  great  Princes  and  Magistrates,  and  how  fraile  and  vnstable 
worldly  prosperity  is  found,  where  Fortune  seemeth  most  highly  to 
fauour :  Newly  imprinted,  and  with  the  addition  of  diuers  Tragedies 
enlarged.  At  London  in  Fleetestreete,  by  Henry  Marsh,  being  the 
assigne  of  Thomas  Marsh.  1587.  Cvm  Frivilegio.  4to.  Black  letter. 
R.  M, 

A,  4  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  B  and  C,  4  leaves  each ;  A — Mm  in  eights,  no  sig.  Z. 

First  edition  of  the  two  parts  by  Baldwin  and  Higgins  incorporated  into  one 
volume  and  augmented  by  the  addition  of  twenty-nine  legends,  making  now  seventy- 
four,  including  Lord  Buckhurst's  "  Induction."  Blener  Hasset's  work,  being  the  pro- 
perty of  a  different  publisher,  is  not  included. 

A  Mirovr  for  Magistrates ;  Being  a  Trve  Chronicle  Historic 


of  the  vntimely  falles  of  such  vnfortunate  Princes  and  men  of  note,  as 
haue  happened  from  the  first  entrance  of  Brute  into  this  Hand,  vntill 
this  our  latter  Age.  Newly  enlarged  with  a  last  part,  called  A  Winter 
nights  Vision,  being  an  addition  of  such  Tragedies,  especially  famous, 
as  are  exempted  in  the  former  Historie,  with  a  Poem  annexed,  called 
Englands  Eliza.  At  London  Imprinted  by  Felix  Kyngston.  l6io. 
4to.    R.  M. 

A,  8  leaves  ;  B,  2  leaves  ;  C — LU  6  in  eights. 

Edited  and  partly  written  by  Richard  Nicols,  who  contributed  to  this,  the  last 
and  only  complete  impression,  the  set  of  legends  comprised  under  the  general  title 
of  "A  Winter  Night's  Vision,"  and  an  original  poem  called  "England's  Eliza," 


MIRROR. 


977 


which  open  with  new  title-pages  on  Oo  3  and  Eee  2.  Baldwin's  portion  has  a  new 
title  on  S  6  as  follows  :  "  The  Variable  Fortvne  and  Onhappie  Falles  of  svch  Princes 
as  hath  happened  since  the  Conquest.  Wherein  may  be  seene  the  instabilitie  and 
change  of  state  in  great  Personages."  Higgins's  preface,  &c.,  are  retained,  but  not 
Baldwin's,  and  although  Blener  Hasset's  second  part  is  incorporated,  the  prelimi- 
nary matter  and  prose  inductions  are  omitted,  as  had  been  done  by  Higgins  in  1587, 
in  regard  to  Baldwin's  set  of  legends.  For  Blener  Hasset's  legends  of  "  Gwiderius" 
and  "Alured,"are  substituted  one  of"  Gviderius,"  by  Higgins,  and  one  of  "  Alured," 
by  the  editor,  who  has  also  modernized  the  spelling  throughout.  The  legend  of 
"Cromwell,"  by  Drayton,  published  originally  in  1607,  and  reprinted  in  1609  with 
alterations,  is  added  to  this  edition. 

The  present  copy  has  the  dedications  to  the  "  Winter  Night's  Vision  "  and  to 
"  England's  Ehza,"  which  are  occasionally  deficient. 

MIRROR  OF  THE  WORLD.  Here  be^nneth  y' table  of  the 
rubrices  of  this  presente  volume  named  the  myrrour  of  the  world  or 
thymage  of  the  same.  [Colophon.]  Caxton  vie  fieri  fecit.  Folio. 
Black  letter.     Woodciits.    BR.  M. 

a — 1  in  eights,  the  first  leaf  blank  and  the  last  having  the  printer's  device  on  the 
verso,  the  recto  blank. 

Second  edition.  Mr.  Blades  says  :  "The  Name,  Place,  and  Date  of  the  First 
Edition  reprinted  ;  but  about  1490."  In  point  of  fact,  however,  neither  this  edition 
nor  the  first  have  any  place  or  date,  and  Mr.  Blades  must  intend  to  refer  to  the 
date  of  the  translation  which  occurs  on  the  last  leaf,  thus  :  "  which  book  I  began  first 
to  translate  the  second  day  of  Janyuer  the  yere  of  our  lord/  M.CCCC.LXXX.  And 
fynysshyd  the  viij  day  of  Marche  in  the  same  yere."  The  book  is  fully  described 
by  Blades,  ii.,  228-30.  The  present  copy  has  the  corners  of  the  first  three  leaves 
in  facsimile.     The  text  begins  with  a  headline  on  a  iiii  verso. 

The  first  edition,  printed  by  Caxton  about  1481,  contains  the  earliest  treatises 
on  arithmetic  and  music  in  the  English  language. 

The   myrrour :   &  dyscrypcyon   of  the  worlde  with   many 

meruaylles.  As  Gramayre/  Rethorike  wyth  the  arte  of  memorye/ 
Logyke/  Geometrye/  wyth  the  standarde  of  mesure  &  weyght/  and 
the  knovvlege  how  a  man  sholde  mesure  londe/  borde/  &  tymber/ 
&  than  Arsmetryke  wyth  the  maner  of  accoijtes  and  rekenynges 
by  cyfres/  and  than  Musyke/  and  Astronomye/  with  many  other 
profytable  and  plesant  comodytes.  [Colophon.]  C  Thus  endetli  this 
boke  named  tlie  myrrour  of  the  worlde j  C  Eupry tiled  by  me  Laurence 
A  ndrewe  dwcllynge  in  fletestretcf  at  the  sygne  of  the  golde  crosse  by  flete 
brydgej  C  Cum  gratia  et  priuilegio  illustrissiini  regis.  [About  15 10.] 
Folio.   Black  letter.    Woodcuts.   BR.  M. 

A,  4  leaves ;  b — f  in  fours  ;  ^,  4  leaves ;  g — y  in  fours.   The  last  leaf  in  facsimile. 

This  is  a  reproduction  of  Caxton's  edition,  with  the  woodcuts  reduced  and  a 
variety  of  new  ones  inserted,  some  being  more  than  once  repeated.  This  edition  is 
of  almost  equal  rarity  with  the  two  published  by  Caxton. 

Mr.  Blades  (ii.,  85)  is  mistaken  in  stating  that  many  of  the  cuts  in  this  impres- 
sion were  taken  from  the  same  blocks  as  Caxton's,  and  Herbert  (edit,  of  Ames, 
p.  413)  seems  to  have  fallen  into  the  same  error.  The  title  of  the  copy  in  the 
British  Museum  differs  slightly  from  the  above. 

5  V 


978  MIRROR. 

MIRROR.  The  Myrrour or Glasse  of Christes  Passion.  [Colophon.] 

Thus  etideth  this  lytell  treatyse  called  the  Glasse  or  Myrrour  of  Christes 

passion.   Impryntcd  at  London  in  Flete  strete,  at  the  sygne  of  the  George, 

by  vie  Robert  Redman.    The  ycre  of  our  lorde  god.  AT.CCCCC.xxx.iiii 

The  .xii.  day  of  December.    Cum  priuilegio.    Folio.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

Title,  within  a  woodcut  border,  and  other  preliminaries,  6  leaves ;  A— DD  4  in 

sixes. 

A  translation  by  John  Fewterer,  made  at  the  desire  of  Lord  Hussey,  to  whom 
it  is  dedicated  from  Sion  Monastery,  6  Dec,  1533.     See  Herbert's  edit,  of  Ames, 

P-  391- 

MIRROR  OF  COMPLIMENTS.  The  Mirrour  of  Complements. 
Or,  A  Manuall  of  Choice,  requisite,  and  compendious  Curiosities, 
wherein  Gentlemen,  Ladies,  Gentlewomen,  and  all  others,  may  practise 
Complementall  and  amorous  expressions,  in  speaking  or  writing  Let- 
ters, upon  any  subject  or  occasion.  Exactly  performed  with  Addition  of 
witty  Songs,  Sonnets,  Poems,  Epigrams,  Essays,  Characters,  &c.  The 
fourth  Edition,  with  very  many  Additions  :  Also  a  Dictionary  and 
Explanation  of  hard  Words  frequently  in  use,  taken  out  of  the  Greeke, 
Latine,  French,  and  other  Tongues.  Loudon,  Printed  by  T.  H.  andare  to 
bee  sold  by  F.  Coles,  R.  Harper,  and  IV.  Gilbertson,  at  their  shops.    1650. 

Sm.  8vo. 

A — M  in  twelves,  title  on  A  2. 

MIRROR  OF  PRINCELY  DEEDS.  The  Mirrour  of  Princely 
deedes  and  Knighthood :  Wherein  is  shewed  the  worthinesse  of  the 
Knight  of  the  Sunne,  and  his  brother  Rosicleer,  sonnes  to  the  great 
Emperour  Trebetio :  with  the  strange  loue  of  the  beautifull  and  ex- 
cellent Princesse  Briana,  and  the  valiant  actes  of  other  noble  Princes 
and  Knightes.  Now  newly  translated  out  of  Spanish  into  our  vulgar 
English  tongue,  by  M.[argaret]  T.[iler].  Imprinted  at  London  by  Thomas 
East.     [1578.]    4to.    Black  letter. 

A,  4  leaves ;  B — Aa  4  in  eights.  With  a  small  cut  on  the  title  of  the  knight 
riding  in  his  chariot. 

Dedicated  to  "  the  Lord  Thomas  Haward."  This  is  the  first  edition  of  the  first 
part  of  this  romance  of  chivalry. 

The  entry  in  the  Stationers'  Register,  1578,  is  "iiii'°  Die  Augusti  Thomas  Easte, 
Licensed  unto  him  '  the  mirrour  of  Knighthood  and  princelie  Deedes' ....  ij'. 


\\» " 


The  First  Part  of  the  Mirrour  of  Princely  deedes  and  Knight- 
hood. Wherin  is  shewed Imprinted  at  London  by  Thomas  Este. 

\ji.  d.]   4to.    Black  letter.   R. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — Aa  4  in  eights. 

This  is  the  later  impression  of  the  first  part  described  above.  In  the  place  of 
the  woodcut  on  the  title  there  is  merely  a  typographer's  ornament.  It  is  bound 
up  with  six  other  parts  of  the  romance,  as  described  below,  in  two  volumes,  each 
having  Lord  Charlemont's  bookplate.     On  the  flyleaf  of  vol.  i.  occurs  :  "  L  Reed, 


MIRROR.  979 

1778.  Bo'  at  Daventry."  No  perfect  series  of  the  "Mirror  of  Knighthood"  has 
come  under  notice,  unless  that  was  so  which  was  purchased  at  the  Stevens  sale  in 
iSoo  by  Douce.  See  Steevens's  Catalogue,  No.  1158.  The  set  in  the  British 
Museum  is  more  incomplete  than  the  present. 

MIRROR  OF  PRINCELY  DEEDS.  The  Second  pail  of  the 
first  Booke  of  the  Myrrour  of  Knighthood  :  in  which  is  prosecvted  the 
Illvstriovs  deedes  of  the  knight  of  the  Sunne,  and  his  brother  Rosi- 
cleer,  Sonnes  vnto  the  Emperour  Trebatio  of  Greece  :  With  the  vahant 
deedes  of  armes  of  sundry  worthie  Knights,  very  dehghtfull  to  bee 
read,  and  nothing  hurtfull  to  bee  regarded.  Now  newly  translated 
out  of  Spanish  into  our  vulgar  tongue  by  R.[ichard]  P.[ercival  ?] 
London  Printed  by  Tlwmas  Este.    1 599.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — LI  4  in  eights,  first  leaf  of  A  blank. 

Dedicated  by  the  printer  to  Master  Thomas  Powie  Esquire,  Clerk  of  the  Crown 
in  the  Court  of  Chancery.     Prefixed  are  some  verses  by  G.  G.  to  the  reader. 

The  following  entr)*  occurs  in  the  Stationers'  Register,  Aug.  24,  1582  :  "  Thomas 
Easte.  Licenced  to  him  vnder  th[e  hjandes  of  Master  Barker  and  master  Coldocke 
'  the  seconde  parte  of  the  mirror  of  knighthoode '  to  be  translated  into  Englishe 
and  soe  to  be  printed,  condicionally  notwithstandinge  that  when  the  same  is  trans- 
lated yt  be  brought  to  them  to  be  pervsed,  and  yf  any  thinge  be  amisse  therein  to  be 
amended  vjV 

This  probably  refers  not  to  this  "  Second  part  of  the  first  booke,"  but  to  "  The 
Second  part  of  the  Myrror  of  Knighthood,"  described  in  Mr.  Hazlitt's  Handbook  as 
printed  by  East  in  1583,  but  which  is  unfortunately  wanting  in  this  set. 

The  Third  Part  of  the  first  booke,  of  the  Mirrovr  of  Knight- 
hood  Newly  translated  out  of  Spanish  into  English  by  R.  P. 

Imprinted  at  London  by  Tlwmas  Este.    \ii.  d?\    4to.    Black  letter. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — LI  4  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  Master  Richard  Morris,  his  especial  good  friend,  by  the  printer. 
When  the  volumes  were  sold  at  Lord  Charlemont's  sale,  this  portion  wanted  four 
leaves  in  sig.  O,  which  have  since  been  supplied  from  another  imperfect  copy  of 
the  romance.     No  entry  of  it  appears  in  the  Stationers'  Register. 

The  sixth  Booke  of  the  Myrrour  of  Knighthood.     Being  the 

first  Booke  of  the  third  Part,  immediatly  following  the  fourth  and 
fifth  Bookes  printed.  Conteining  the  Knightly  actions  and  amorous 
conuersations  of  Rosicleer  and  Rosabel  his  sonne,  with  diuers  other 
their  princely  Frends  and  Kinsmen.  Translated  out  of  Spanish  by 
R.  P.  London  Printed  by  Edward  Allde  for  Citthbert  Burby,  and  are 
to  be  sold  at  his  shop  nere  tJie  Royall  Exchange.  1598.  4to.  Black 
letter. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — Oo  2  in  fours. 

"  The  Printer  to  the  Reader. 
"  Cost  more  than  ordinarie,  &  trauell  exceeding  expences  haue  I  bestowed  to 
get  together  all  the  parts  of  this  excelent  Historic.     If  a  quick  Terme  pay  the 
expence  of  a  dead  Vacation,  I  wil  within  the  month  play  the  Conney,  and  bring 


980  MIRROR— MISCELLANIES. 

foorth  another  Part :  but  if  ye  proue  niggards  to  buy  what  I  have  dearly  bought  to 
sell,  I  will  learne  of  the  Camell  to  be  three  yeares  in  bringing  forth  my  next  birth, 
though  I  buy  the  long  bearing  verie  deare.  "  Yours.  C.  B. ' 

MIRROR  OF  PRINCELY  DEEDS.  The  Seuenth  Booke  of 
the  Myrrour  of  Knighthood.     Being  the  Second  of  the  third  Part. 

Englished  out  of  the  Spanish  language Lotidon  Fruited  by 

Thomas  Piirfoot  for  Odhbert  Burby,  and  are  to  be  sojtld  at  his  shop 
ncere  the  Royall  Exchange.    1598.    4to.     Black  letter. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B— Rr  in  fours. 

Dedicated  by  L.  A.,the  translator,  to  Master  William  Willoughby  of  Gray's-Inn. 
We  seem  to  have  an  evidence  here  that  the  sale  of  the  sixth  book  was  sufficiently 
remunerative  to  tempt  the  publisher  "to  play  the  Conney,"  and  indeed  to  proceed 
with  the  work  to  its  entire  completion, 

The  Eighth  Booke  of  the  Myrror  of  Knighthood.    Being  the 

third  of  the  third  Part.    EngHshed  out  of  the  Spanish  tongue 

London  Printed  by  Thomas  Creede  for  Cutlibert  Biirbey,  and  are  to  be 
sold  at  his  shop  ncare  the  Royall  Exckaunge.     1 599.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A— Oo  in  fours,  title  on  A  2,  and  Oo  4  blank. 

Dedicated  by  L.  A.  to  Sir  Edward  Wootton,  whose  kindness  to  his  deceased 
uncle  and  to  his  aunt,  still  surviving,  he  records  with  gratitude.  But  he  does  not  dis- 
close his  own  name. 

The  Ninth  Part  of  the  Mirrour  of  Knight-hood,  Being  the 

fourth  Booke  of  the  third  part  thereof :  Wherein  is  declared,  the  high 
and  noble  actes  of  the  sonnes  and  nephewes  of  the  Noble  Emperour 
Trebacius,  and  of  the  rest  of  the  renoumed  Princes  and  Knights,  and 
of  the  high  cheualrie  of  the  gallant  Ladyes  :  wheerin  also  is  treated  of 
the  most  cruell  warre  that  euer  was  in  Greece,  with  the  amorous  euents, 
and  the  end  thereof  At  London  Printed  for  Cuthbert  Barbie,  and  are 
to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  the  Royall  Exchange.    160 1.   4to.    Black  letter. 

A — Xx  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  name  of  the  translator  of  this  last  portion  does  not  appear,  and  there  is  no 
introductory  matter  of  any  kind. 

MISCELLANEA  ANTIQUA  ANGLICANA  ;  Or,  A  Select 
Collection  of  Curious  Tracts,  illustrative  of  the  History,  Literature, 
Manners,  and  Biography  of  the  English  Nation.  London  .... 
1816.    4to. 

A  series  of  eight  tracts  paged  separately,'with  a  general  title  and  leaf  of  contents. 
Some  copies  have  a  title  marked  "Vol.  I.,"  but  as  no  more  was  printed  this  was 
subsequently  cancelled. 

MISCELLANIES  OVER  CLARET :  Or,  The  Friends  to  the 
Tavern  the  Best  Friends  to  Poetry.    Being  a  Collection  of  Poems, 


MISSA—MISSALE.  981 

Translations,  &c.  to  be  continued  Monthly  from  the  Rose-Tavern 
without  Temple-Bar.  Numb.  II.  .  .  .  London:  Printed  by  S.  D.  .  .  . 
1697.    4to. 

Fourteen  leaves. 

This  is  only  part  of  a  larger  volume,  No.  I  of  the  "  Miscellanies  "  having  doubtless 
gone  before  and  occupied  pp.  1-20. 

MISSA  Latina,  quae  olim  ante  Romanam  circa  700.  Domini  an- 
num in  usu  fuit,  bona  fide  exuetusto  authenticoq,  Codice  descripta. 
Item  qu^dam  de  uetustatibus  Missse  scitu  valde  digna.  Adivncta  est 
Beati  Rhenani  praefatio  in  Missam  Chrysostomi  a  Leone  Tusco,  Anno 
Domini  1070.  uersam.   Argentinae  excvdebat  Christianus  Myliiis.    1557. 

Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — H  iv  in  eights. 

MISSALE  advsu  insignis  ecclesie  San:  nupaccuratissTe  castigatii: 
ppulchrisq,  caracterib^  ipressu :  officia  omnium  sanctorum  totaliter  ad 
longu  [qd'  celebratibus  maxime  erit  utilitati]  contines  cum  pluribus 
officiis  nouis  in  fine  additis.  [Colophon.]  Finit  Missale  vna  cu  in- 
troductione  accentiis  in  epystolis  et  endgeliis  {suma  ciira  ac  vigili  opere 
iiupcr  renisiint)  Icgentibns  in  ccclesiis  valde  vtili.  ipressu  Rothoniagi per 
magistrn  Martinu  Mori  impensa  exef  stiffultu  Johannis  Richardi  mer- 
catoris  et  librarii  Rotliomagen  iuxtasanctu  NicJiolau  mora  trahetis  Anno 
salutis  huane  Millesimo  quingetesinio  octauo.  sexta  mesis  Augiisti  luce. 
4to.    BR.  M. 

Title,  calendar,  &c.,  8  leaves  ;  a — q  in  eights  ;  r  and  s,  6  leaves  each ;  A — H  in 
eights ;  A — F  in  eights,  concluding  with  sigs.  O  and  P,  6  leaves  each. 

MISSALE  ad  vsum  ecclesie  Sarisburiensis.  1555.  [Colophon.] 
....  Lodini  impressum.  Per  Johannem  Kyngsto  et  Henricum  Sutton 
typographos.    4to.    BR.  M. 

Title,  calendar,  &c.,  8  leaves  ;  A — Y  in  eights,  and  a — r  in  eights.  Colophon  on 
the  recto  of  the  last  leaf. 

[MISSALE  ad  usum  Ecclesise  Bangoriensis.]    Folio.   BR.  M. 

MS.  on  vellum  of  the  early  part  of  the  fifteenth  or  end  of  the  fourteenth  century 
of  English  execution.  Very  finely  written  in  black  and  red,  and  many  of  the  pages 
decorated  with  floriated  borders. 

At  the  end  of  the  calendar  is  the  following  inscription  :  "  This  Booke  was  geuen 
to  the  hye  alter  of  the  Paryshe  Churche  of  Oswestry  by  Sr'  Morys  Griffith  Prist. 
To  praye  for  all  Christen  sowles  the  yere  of  oure  Lorde  god  a  thowsande  fyue 
hundred  fyfty  &  foure." 

In  this  date  there  is  an  evident  erasure  in  the  word  "  fyve,"  the  y  and  the  e  have 
clearly  been  altered,  and  it  is  much  more  probable  that  the  date  of  the  gift  was  1454 
than  1554,  though  it  is  difficult  to  understand  what  object  there  can  have  been  for 
the  alteration. 

The  plighting  of  troth  differs  somewhat  from  that  which  is  usually  found  in  the 
printed  missals,  and  reads  thus :  "  I  N.  tak  ^e  N.  to  my  weddyd  wyf  to  haue  &  to 


982  MISSALE—MISSON. 

holde  from  |jis  day  forward  for  bettere  for  werse  for  fayrere  for  fowlere  for  rychere 
for  porere  in  syknesse  &  in  helthe  tyl  de)j  us  depart  3yf  holy  cherche  yt  wole  ordeyne 
and  thereto  y  plyghte  the  my  trewthe."  "  I  N.  take  the  N.  to  my  weddyd  hus- 
bande  to  haue  and  to  hold  fro  )>\%  day  for^vard  for  bettere  for  worse  for  fayrere  for 
fowler  for  rycher  for  porere  in  syknesse  &  in  helf>e  to  be  boneere  &  buxum  in  alle 
lawefuU  plac)'s  tyl  de{>e  us  departe  .'yf  holy  cherche  yt  wyl  ordeyne  and  therto  I 
plighte  t'e  my  trewthe." 

This  invaluable  MS.  was  formerly  in  the  possession  of  Mr.  Maskell  and  is  par- 
ticularly mentioned  in  the  preface  to  his  work  on  "  The  Ancient  Liturgy  of  the 
Church  of  England."  He  there  remarks :  "  I  do  not  venture  to  say  that  it  is  cerlaiiily 
that  Use  [Bangor],  but  I  conceive  there  are  many  reasonable  grounds  for  supposing 
it  to  be  so.  It  is  undoubtedly  an  English  missal,  and  not  according  to  the  uses 
either  of  Sarum,  York,  or  Hereford.  A  very  slight  examination  even  of  the  small 
portion  reprinted  in  this  volume  will  be  sufficient  to  establish  this  :  a  point  con- 
firmed by  many  variations  in  the  collects  and  offices  throughout  the  book." 

MISSALE,  Speciale.    Folio. 

MS.  on  vellum,  probably  of  English  execution.  It  contains  seven  large  minia- 
tures, five  of  which  represent  full-length  figures  of  saints  with  their  emblems.  The 
sixth  represents  the  virgin  and  child,  before  whom  kneels  a  figure  which  doubt- 
less is  intended  for  the  person  for  whom  the  volume  was  executed.  It  might  have 
been  possible  to  identify  the  kneeling  figure  were  it  not  that  the  coat  of  arms 
beneath  has  been  defaced.  The  seventh  painting  is  the  conventional  representation 
of  the  ten  thousand  martyrs,  five  naked  figures  transfixed  on  pointed  stakes.  This 
occurs  at  the  end  of  the  canon  of  the  mass. 

From  the  library  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Forshall,  formerly  of  the  British  Museum. 

MISSELDEN,  Edward.  The  Circle  of  Commerce.  Or  the  Bal- 
lance  of  Trade,  in  defence  of  free  Trade  :  Opposed  to  Malynes  Little 
Fish  and  his  Great  Whale,  and  poized  against  them  in  the  Scale. 

Wherein  also,  Exchanges  in  general  are  considered By  E.  M. 

Merchant.  .  .  .  London,  Printed  by  lohn  Dawson  for  Niclwlas  Bourne : 
....  1623.    4to. 

A,  3  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves  ;  B  (repeated) — L  2  in  fours  ;  Aa — Gg  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  the  Earl  of  Middlesex,  Lord  Treasurer.  At  the  end  of  his  address 
"To  the  Gentle  and  ludicious  Readers,"  he  observes  in  a  sort  of  side-note  :  "You 
may  if  you  please,  receiue  this  from  London,  if  any  of  you  like  it  not  from  Hackney, 
the  14.  of  lune.  Anno.  1623." 

[MISSON,  Maxim.]  M^moires  et  observations  faites  par  un  Voy- 
ageur  en  Angleterre,  sur  ce  qu'il  a  trouve  de  plus  remarquable,  tant  k 
regard  de  la  Religion,  que  de  la  politique,  des  moeurs,  des  curiositez 
naturelles,  et  quantite  de  faits  historiques.  Avec  une  description  par- 
ticuli^re  de  ce  qu'il  y  a  de  plus  curieux  dans  Londres.  Le  toutenrichi 
de  Figures.    A  la  Haye.    1698.    Sm.  8vo.    Plates.    R. 

Nouveau  Voyage  d'ltalie,  avec  un  memoire  contenant  des 


avis  utiles  a  ceux  qui  voudront  faire  le  mesme  voyage.    La  Haye. 
1702.    3  vols.    Sm.  8vo.    R. 


MIS  TRIS— MOFFAT.  gZ^ 

MISTRIS  Parliament  Brought  to  Bed  of  a  Monstrous  Childe  of 
Reformation.  With  her  7  Yeers  Teeming,  bitter  Pangs,  and  hard 
Travaile,  that  she  hath  undergone  in  bringing  forth  her  first-borne. 
(Being  a  Precious  Babe  of  Grace.)  With  the  Cruelty  of  Mistris  London 
her  Midwife  ;  and  great  Affection  of  Mistris  Synod  her  Nurse,  Mrs. 
Schisme,  M".  Priviledge,  M".  Ordinance,  M".  Vniversall  Toleration, 
and  M".  Leveller  her  Gossips.  [Eight  lines  of  verse.]  By  Mercurius 
Melancholicus  :  Printed  in  the  Yeer  of  the  Saints  fear.    1648.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

MODIUS  SALIUM.  A  Collection  of  such  Pieces  of  Humour 
(not  to  be  found  in  others  of  this  Kind)  as  prevail'd  at  Oxford  in  the 
time  of  Mr.  Anthony  a  Wood.  Collected  by  himself,  and  publish'd 
from  his  Original  Manuscript.    Oxford  ....  175 1.    8vo. 

Pp.  36. 

MODUS.  Sensuyt  le  liure  du  Roy  Modus  et  de  la  Royne  Racio 
q°  park  du  deduit  de  la  Chasse  a  toutes  bestes  sauuaiges  comme  cerfz : 
biches  :  dais  :  chevreulx  :  lieures  :  sagliers  :  loups,  regnards.  et  loutres 
Auec  le  stille  de  faulconerie.  Et  aussi  les  subtillitez  darcherie,  con- 
tenant  plusieurs  manieres  pour  prendre  toutes  sortes  doyseaulx, 
tant  a  la  raitz  a  la  tonelle  q  a  la  pipee,  &  autres  nouuelles  choses 
trouuees  pour  les  prendre.  XXIIIP-  [Colophon.]  Cy  finis t  ce preset 
liure  Intitule  le  liure  du  Roy  Modus  et  de  la  Royne  Racio.  Iniprime 
nouucllemct  a  Paris  par  Jchan  Treppcrel  hnprinienr  et  L  ibraire  deniourant 
en  la  Rue  neufiie  nostre  Dame  a  loiseigne  de  lescu  de  France.    \_s.  d.]   4to. 

This  copy  has  the  same  number  of  leaves  as  the  edition  by  Trepperel  cited  by 
Brunei  as  having  been  sold  at  Utterson's  sale  for  ;^28,  but  appears  to  differ  from 
it  in  not  having  the  words,  "  On  les  vent  a  Paris,"  on  the  title.  Beneath  the  title 
given  above  is  a  large  woodcut.     From  the  Yemeniz  collection. 

M.[OFFAT,  T.]homas.  The  Silkewormes,  and  their  Flies:  Liuely 
described  in  verse,  by  T.  M.  a  Countrie  Farmar,  and  an  apprentice  in 
Physicke.  For  the  great  benefit  and  enriching  of  England.  Printed 
at  London  by  V.  S.  for  Nicholas  Ling,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  at 
the  West  ende  of  Panics.    1599.    4to.    G.  M. 

A — L  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  most  renowned  Patronesse,  and  noble  Nurse  of  Learning 
Marie,  Countesse  of  Penbrooke."  by  T.  M.,  the  initials,  as  there  is  now  no  reason  to 
doubt,  of  Thomas  Moffat  or  Moufet,  afterwards  a  physician  of  some  note.  In  this 
dedication  he  refers  to  some  translation  from  Petrarch,  on  which  he  knew  Lady 
Pembroke  to  be  then  engaged.  From  his  expression,  "give  rest  to  Sacred  Writte," 
we  may  conjecture  that  she  was  at  that  time  writing  her  poem  on  the  Passion  or 
completing  her  own  and  her  brother's  version  of  the  Psalms. 

At  sig.  F  3  verso,  the  author  speaks  of  having  been  in  Italy  in  1579,  so  that  he 
was  probably  not  a  very  young  man  when  he  composed  this  work. 

Mr.  Collier  ("  Bibl.  Cat.,"  i.,  539-40)  gives  a  favourable  account  of  the  book,  and 


984  MOL I  ERE— MO  LIT  OR. 

supplies  the  evidence  on  which  it  is  assigned  to  the  pen  of  Mofiat.  "  The  Sillce- 
worme  is  thought  to  be  Dr.  Muffetts,  and  in  mine  opinion  is  no  bad  piece  of 
■^o^mi.r— Letter  of  John  Chamberlain  to  Dudley  Carleton,  March  i,  1599- 1600. 

MOLIERE,  JeaN-Baptiste  PoqUELIN  DE.  Les  OEuvres  de 
Monsieur  de  Moliere.    Reveues,  corrig^es  &  augment^es.    Enrichies 

de  Figures  en  Taille-douce.  A  Paris,  Chez  Deiiys  Thierry 1682. 

8  vols.    Sm.  8vo.    Plates. 

CEuvres,  Nouvelle  Edition,  Augmentde  de  la  Vie  de  I'Auteur 

&  des  Remarques  Historiques  et  Critiques Anist.    1765.   6  vols. 

Sm.  8vo.    Y.  M. 

• CEuvres  de  Moliere   avec   des    Remarques   grammaticales ; 

des  Avertissemens  Et  des  Observations  sur  chaque  Pi^ce  par  M.  Bret. 
A  Paris.    1773.    6  vols.    Svo.    BL.  M. 

■  Le  Bourgeois  Gentilhomme.    Comedie-Ballet.   Faite  4  Cham- 

bort,  pour  le  Divertissement  du  Roy.  Sicivatit  la  Copie  imprim^e  d 
Paris.    167 1.    Sin.  Svo. 

A — E  vi  in  twelves.     On  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  "  la  Sph&re." 

MOLINA.  Vocabulario  en  lengua  Castellana  y  Mexicana,  com- 
puesto  por  el  muy  Reuerendo  Padre  Fray  Alonso  de  Molina,  de  la 
Orden  del  bienauenturado  nuestro  Padre  sant  Francisco.  Dirigido  al 
muy  excelente  Senor  Don  Martin  Enriquez,  Visorrey  destanueua 
Espafia.  En  Mexico, EiiCasade Antonio deSpinosa.  1571.  Folio.  BR.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  folios  1-121,  followed  by  a  leaf  with  woodcut, 
&c.,  unpaged.     Second  title  and  "Avisos,"  2  leaves  ;  folios  1-162. 

Though  not  in  Senor  Salvd's  collection,  this  book  is  inserted  in  his  catalogue 
among  a  list  of  books  printed  in  Mexico.  He  says  of  it :  "  Es  la  obra  mds  notable 
que  existe  en  las  lenguas  americanas,  y  goza  per  ello  de  grande  estimacion." 

MOLINET,  Jean.  Les  Faictz  et  dictz  de  feu  de  bone  memoire 
maistre  Jehan  Molinet  contenans  plusieurs  beaulx  traictez,  oraisons  et 
champs  royaulx.  .  .  .  On  les  vend  a  Paris  en  la  rice  sainct  Jacques 
chez  Jehan  yiiernel  an  coing  dc  la  rue  des  porees.  M.D.XXXVII.  Sm. 
Svo.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  folios  i-ccl. 

MOLITOR,  Ulricus.  De  laniis  &  phitonicis  mulieribus.  {Sine 
loco  ant  anno.]    4to.     Woodcuts.     R. 

a — b  in  eights  ;  c — d  in  sixes,  with  thirty-four  and  thirty-five  lines  to  the  page. 
There  are  seven  woodcuts,  but  that  at  the  back  of  the  title  is  found  in  other  books  ; 
the  remaining  six  belong  specially  to  this  work.  It  was  probably  printed  about 
1490. 

De  Lanijs  et  phitoicis  mulieribus  ad  illustrissimu  prlcipem 

dominum  Sigismundum  archiducem  austrie  tractatus  pulcherrimus  p 
Ulricum  molitoris  de  Constantia :  studij  Papiensis  decretorum  doctorem. 


MOLITOR—MONFA R  T.  985 

Curieq,  Constantiensis  causarum  patronum.  ad  honorem  dementis 
principis  sueq,  sub  celsitudinis  emendatione  conscriptus.  [Colophon.] 
liHprcssiim  Colonic  apitd  coimentum  pdicatoru  In  dc  stolckgasie  Per  me 
Cortieliu  de  zyrichzee.    \s.  di\    4to.     Woodcuts. 

A,  B,  D  in  sixes  ;  C,  4  leaves. 

There  are  ten  woodcuts,  but  those  on  the  title  and  last  leaf  are  repetitions. 

MOLITOR,  Ulricus.  De  lanijs  et  phitonicis  mulieribus  ad  illus- 
trissimum  principem  dominO  Sigismudum  archiducem  austrie  tractatus 
pulcherrimus.    \Sme  loco  ant  anno.]    4to.     IVoodcnts. 

This  edition  is  also  from  the  press  of  "  Cornelius  de  ZjTichzee,"  though  without 
his  name.     The  woodcuts  are  from  the  same  blocks  and  the  collation  is  identical. 

MOLLOY,  Charles.  Hollands  Ingratitude  :  Or,  a  Serious  Ex- 
postulation with  the  Dutch.  Shewing  their  Ingratitude  to  this  Nation, 
and  their  inevitable  Ruine,  without  a  speedy  Compliance  and  Submis- 
sion to  His  Sacred  Majesty  of  Britain.  London:  Printed  by  T.  J.  for 
Fr.  K.  at  the  Princes  Arms  in  Chancery  Lane.     1666.    4to. 

A — E  in  fours,  with  a  ver>'  curious  folding  plate  by  R.  Gaywood. 

Besides  the  subject  referred  to  in  the  title,  this  volume  includes  a  poetical 
pancgjTic  on  General  Monk,  and  a  welcome,  also  in  verse,  to  Prince  Rupert,  which 
are  followed  by  prose  characters  of  a  Dutchman  and  a  Frenchman. 

From  Dr.  Bliss's  collection. 

MONASTIC  MANUSCRIPT.  Sensuyt  ung  liure  de  plusieurs 
difficultes  q  on  pourroit  auoir.  Comment  on  doibt  faire  et  proceder  en 
aulcunes  choses  de  obseruances  et  manieres  de  faire.    Sm.  4to. 

MS.  of  the  sixteenth  centur>'  on  sixty-seven  leaves  of  paper,  written  on  both  sides, 
in  a  hand  much  resembling  that  known  as  "  Lettres  de  civility." 

It  is  ver)'  valuable  and  interesting  for  the  picture  it  affords  of  the  general 
management  and  arrangement  of  a  monastery,  and  appears  to  have  been  written 
about  the  year  1500  for  the  use  of  "le  Monast^re  de  notre  Dame  du  Val  de  Grace, 
aultrement  diet  val  parfond,"  near  Paris.  The  contents  are  very  varied,  from  the 
election  of  an  abbess,  and  the  manner  of  receiving  and  addressing  princes  and 
nobles,  to  the  arrangement  of  the  domestic  affairs  of  the  abbey  and  the  making  of 
conserves. 

MONFART,  Henry  de.  An  Exact  and  Cvriovs  Svrvey  Of  all 
the  East  Indies,  euen  to  Canton,  the  chiefe  Cittie  of  China :  All  duly 
performed  by  land  by  Monsieur  de  Monfart,  the  like  whereof  was 
neuer  hetherto,  brought  to  an  end.  Wherein  also  are  described  the 
huge  Dominions  of  the  great  Mogor,  to  whom  that  honorable  Knight, 
Sir  Thomas  Roe,  was  lately  sent  Ambassador  from  the  King.  Newly 
translated  out  of  the  Trauailers  Manuscript.  London,  Printed  by 
Thomas  Dawson,  for  Williavi  Arondell,  in  Pauls  Church-yard,  at  the 
Angell.    161 5.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — G  iii  in  fours. 
Dedicated  by  the  translator  to  the  Earl  of  Pembroke. 

5  z 


986 


MONGA  S  TON—MONSTRELET. 


MONGASTON,  Juan  de.  Testamento  de  nuestra  Sefiora  sacado 
piadosamente.  Lleua  quatro  Romances.  El  primero,  la  Assunci5  de 
nuestra  Senora.  El  segundo,  dela  prision  de  Christo,  sobre  el  que  dize 
en  la  prision  esta  Adulce.  El  tercero  sobre  que  dize,  sentado  en  la 
seca  yerua.  El  quarto  sobre  el  que  dize.  Luchali  se  sale  huyendo, 
buelto  a  la  desesperacion  de  ludas.  Compuestos  per  Juan  de  Mon- 
gaston.  Impressas  con  licencia  en  Alcala  de  Henares,  en  casa  de  Juan 
Gracian  qtie  sea  en  gloria.    Aflo  de  1608.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  metre. 

MONGITORE,  Antonino.  L'Atto  Pubblico  {sic\  di  Fede  solenne- 
mente  celebrato  nella  citta  di  Palermo,  a  6.  Aprile  1724.  dal  Tribunale 
del  S.  Uffizio  di  Slcilia.  .  .  .  Descritto  dal  D.  D.  Antonino  Mongitore 
Canonico  della  Cattedralc  Metropolitana  Chiesa  della  stessa  Citt^, 
Consultore,  e  Qualificatore  di  detto  S.  Uffizio.  In  Palermo,  17 2/1,.  Nella 
Regia  S  tamper  ia  d'Agostino,  ed  Antonino  Epiro,  Familiar  i,  cd  Impressori 
del  medemo  [sic]  Tribunale.     Con  licenza  de  Svperiori.    Folio. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  7  leaves  ;  "Al  lettore,"  5  leaves ;  A — O  in  fours;  four 
folding  plates.    The  last  plate  represents  the  burning  alive  of  a  monk  and  a  nun. 

[MONI,  J.]  Quadrins  Historiqves  de  la  Bible.  A  Lyon,par  Jean 
de  Tovrnes,  M.D.LIII.    Sm.  8vo.    Woodcuts.   BL.  M. 

A — F  iv  in  eights,  the  last  bearing  only  a  typographer's  ornament,  and  the  last 
but  one  a  sonnet.     "  Qvadrins  .  .  .  d'Exode."    A — H  in  eights. 

Qvadernos  Ystoricos  de  la  Biblia.     Eti  Leon  de  Francia,  En 

casa  de  Juan  de  Tournes.  M.D.LIII.    Sm.  8vo.    Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

A — E  in  eights  and  A — E  iv  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank  and  the  last  but  one 
bearing  only  a  typographer's  ornament. 

The  true  and  lyuely  historyke  portreatures  of  the  woll  Bible. 

At  Lyons,  by  Jean  of  Toimies.  M.D.LIII.   Sm.  8vo.    Woodcuts.   BL.  M. 

A — N  in  eights.    The  last  leaf  bears  only  a  typographer's  ornament. 

Wol   gerissnen   und   geschnidten   Figuren   auss   der   Bibel. 

Zu  Lyon,  durch  Hans  Tornesius.     1564.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — P  in  eights  for  the  Old  Testament,  and  A— F  for  the  New  Testament. 
In  the  original  calf  binding,  richly  tooled  and  gilt,  and  dated  1565.     From  the 
device  on  the  side  it  appears  to  have  belonged  to  the  library  of  Lodovico  Sforza. 

MONSTRELET,  Enguerrand  de.  Le  premier  (le  second  et 
le  tiers)  volume  de  enguerran  de  monstrellet.  Ensuyuant  froissart 
nagueres  imprime  a  paris  Des  cronicques  De  france,  dangleterre, 
Descoce,  despaigne,  De  bretaigne,  de  gascongne,  De  flandres.  Et 
lieux  circonuoisins.  [Colophon.]  Impriinez  a  paris  pour  Anthoine 
verard,  libraire  Dcmourant  a  paris  a  petit  pont  a  lymaige  salct  Jehan 
leuageliste.  .  .  .  \s.  d.]    3  vols,  in  2.    Folio.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Le  premier  [le  second  et  le  tiers]  volume  de  enguerran  de 


MONSTROUS— MONTAIGNE.  987 

monstrellet.  Ensuyvant  froissart,  Des  croniques  de  France  Dangle- 
terre  Descoce  Despaigne,  de  Bretaigne,  de  Gascongne,  de  Flandres  & 

lieux  circonuoisins Imprivte  a  paris.    Lan  de  grace  mil.  v.  cens.  et. 

XVIII.  le  XVI'.  iour  de  Mars.  Ilz  se  vendent  a  Paris  en  la  grant  rue 
sainct  Jacques  a  lenseigiie  saincte  Claude.  [Colophon.]  .  .  .  Imprimc  a 
paris  Lan  de  grace  mil  cinq  cens.  et.  XVIII.  le  XX II P.  iour  dauril 
Pour  Francois  regnault.  ....  3  vols.    Folio.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

MONSTROUS  CHILD.  The  forme  and  shape  of  a  Monstrous 
Child/  borne  at  Maydstone  in  Kent,  the.  xxiiii.  of  October.  1568. 
[Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  London  by  John  Awdelcy,  dwellyng  in  little 
Britain  streete  without  Alder sgate.  The.  xxiij.  of  December.  A  broad- 
side.   Black  letter. 

In  verse  and  prose,  with  a  woodcut,  having  the  date  1568  engraved  in  large 
characters  at  the  top.    The  only  copy  known. 

Reprinted  in  "  Ancient  Ballads,"  &c.,  1867.  Awdeley  was  probably  the  writer  of 
this  narrative  as  well  as  the  printer. 

The  true  reporte  of  the  forme  and  shape  of  a  monstrous 

childe,  borne  at  Muche  Horkesleye,  a  village  three  myles  from  Col- 
chester, in  the  Countye  of  Essex,  the.  xxi.  daye  of  Apryll  in  this  yeare. 
1562.  \ColopJwn?\  Imprifited at  London  in  Fletestretenereto  S.Dunstons 
church  by  Thomas  MarsJie.    A  broadside.     Black  letter. 

In  verse  and  prose,  with  a  woodcut.     No  other  copy  is  known. 
Reprinted  in  "Ancient  Ballads,"  &c.,  1867. 

MONTAIGNE,  Michel  de.  Essais  de  Michel  Seigneur  de  Mon- 
taigne. Cinquiesme  edition,  augmentee  d'un  troisiesme  liure  et  de  six 
cens  additions  aux  deux  premiers.  A  Paris,  Chez  Abel  L'Angelier, 
an  premier  pillier  de  la  grand  Salle  du  Palais.  Avcc  Privilege  du  Roy. 
4to.    R.  M. 

The  "Au  Lecteur"  which  occupies  the  obverse  of  the  second  leaf,  and  the 
"  E.xtraict  du  Privilege"  on  the  reverse  of  the  last,  are  both  dated  1588.  There  is 
no  date  on  the  title,  which  is  engraved  as  above  within  an  elegant  border ;  a  half- 
inch  of  its  lower  margin  folded  by  the  binder  to  equal  the  rest  of  the  book  in  size. 
This  is  the  case  with  all  copies. 

The  first  complete  edition  of  the  "  Essais  de  Montaigne,"  and  the  last  published 
by  the  author.  In  it  was  printed  for  the  first  time  the  third  book,  and  the  text  of 
the  first  and  second  books  was  largely  amplified  and  corrected. 

Since  the  impression  of  the  1582  edition  of  books  i  and  2  in  their  first  rough 
state,  Montaigne  had  travelled  and  collected  notes  for  the  preparation  of  the  third 
book,  and  in  1588  he  went  to  Paris  to  see  the  complete  work  through  the  press,  as 
appears  in  the  edition  above  described.  He  prefaced  it  with  the  famous  address  to 
the  reader,  of  which  the  first  words  are  so  often  quoted—"  C'est  icy  vn  liure  de 
bonne  foy,  lecteur."  This  address  was  so  fairly  descriptive  of  the  book,  and  so 
characteristic  of  the  man,  that  it  has  been  repeated  in  all  subsequent  editions, 
except  only  that  of  1595. 

Les  Essais  de  Michel  Seignevr  de  Montaigne.    Edition  nov- 

velle,  trowee  apres  le  deceds  de  TAutheur,  reveue  &  augmentee  par 


988  MONTAIGNE. 

luy  d'un  tiers  plus  qu'aux  precedentes  Impressions.  A  Paris,  Chez 
Michel  Sonnivs  .  .  .  CID.ID.XCV.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Other  copies  bear  the  name  of  L'Angelier  on  the  title.  It  was  he  who  held  the 
privilege.  Montaigne  died  in  1592,  leaving  a  copy  of  the  15S8  edition  covered  with 
MS.  corrections  by  himself. 

When  in  Paris  in  15SS,  he  had  made  the  acquaintance  of  Mile,  de  Gournay, 
already,  at  t^venty-three  years  of  age,  noted  for  her  learning.  She  had  lost  her 
father,  and  was  treated  by  Montaigne  as  a  daughter,  for  which  reason  she  always 
styled  herself  his  adopted  child,  and  was  considered  such.  Montaigne's  widow,  on 
her  husband's  death,  summoned  Mile,  de  Gournay  to  Montaigne,  where,  in  examin- 
ing his  papers,  she  found  the  corrected  copy  of  the  edition  of  1588,  which  she 
describes  in  the  preface  to  that  of  1595.  This  last  edition  was  published  from  the 
corrected  copy,  under  her  care.  She  omitted  the  short  "  Au  Lecteur,"  of  Montaigne, 
and  substituted  a  long  preface,  which  is  very  curious  and  interesting  in  various 
ways.  It  is  a  protest  against  woman's  position  in  society,  an  egoistical  self-assertion 
quite  in  Montaigne's  own  mode  of  thought,  a  pedantic,  learned,  and  obscure  eulogy 
on  the  essays  of  her  father  by  adoption.  In  spite  of  her  own  classical  pedantry 
she  prefers  the  use  of  good  old  French  to  new  Latinisms,  and  concerning  the 
language  of  Montaigne  her  preface  has  the  following  remarkable  words  :  "  C'est  le 
clou  qui  fixera  la  volubilitd  de  nostre  idiome,  continue  jusques  icy." 

The  edition  of  1595  has  the  merit  of  containing  the  author's  latest  additions,  and 
of  being  the  "  Editio  parens"  of  all  succeeding  impressions. 

MONTAIGNE,  Michel  de.  Les  Essais  de  Michel,  Seigneur  de 
Montaigne.  Novvelle  edition,  exactement  purgee  des  defavts  des 
precedentes,  selon  le  vray  original :  Et  enrichie  &  augmentee  aux 
marges  du  nom  des  Auteurs  qui  y  sont  citez,  &  de  la  Version  de  leurs 
Passages;  avec  des  Observations  tres-importantes  &  n^cessaires  pour 
le  soulagement  du  Lecteur.  Ensemble  la  Vie  de  I'Autheur,  &  deux 
Tables,  I'une  des  Chapitres  &  I'autre  des  principales  matieres,  de  beau- 
coup  plus  ample  et  plus  utile  que  celle  des  dernieres  Editions.  A 
Amsterdam,  Che::  Anthoine  Michicls,  Libraire  M.DC.LIX.  3  vols. 
Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

The  first  vol.  has  an  engraved  frontispiece-title  containing  a  portrait  of  the 
author. 

The  Essayes  Or  Morall,  Politike  and  Millitarie  Discourses  of 


Lo  :  Michaell  de  Montaigne,  Knight  Of  the  noble  Order  of  S'  Michaell, 
and  one  of  the  Gentlemen  in  Ordinary  of  the  French  king,  Henry  the 
third  his  Chamber.  .  .  .  First  written  by  him  in  French.  And  now 
done  into  English  by  him  that  hath  inviolably  vowed  his  labors  to  the 
^ternitie  of  their  Honors,  whose  nam.es  he  hath  severally  inscribed 
on  these  his  consecrated  Altares.  The  first  Booke.  To  the  Right 
Honorable  Lvcie  Co:  of  Bedford  :  And  Ladie  Anne  Harrington  Her 
Ho :  Mother.  The  second  Booke.  To  the  Right  Honorable  Elizabeth 
Co :  of  Rvtland,  And  Ladie  Penelope  Riche.  The  third  Booke.  To 
the  Right  Honorable  Ladie  Elizabeth  Grey,  and  Ladie  Marie  Nevill. 
lohn  Florio.  Printed  at  London  by  Val.  Sims  for  Edward  Blount 
diocUing  in  Panics  ehiirehyard.     1603.    Folio. 


MONTAIGNE— MONTANUS.  989 

A,  8  leaves  ;  verses  by  Samuel  Daniel,  i  leaf ;  errata,  i  leaf ;  B — Kkk  4  in 
sixes. 

The  first  edition  in  English.  The  copies  of  this  edition,  which  belonged  to 
Shakespeare  and  Ben  Jonson,  are  both  in  the  British  Museum.  The  signature  of 
Shakespeare,  which  occurs  in  his  copy  on  the  flyleaf  facing  the  title,  is  very  in- 
efi'ectively  represented  in  the  photographic  and  other  copies.  In  the  original  it  is 
firm  and  clear.  At  p.  102  is  a  passage  (reprinted  entire  in  Hazlitt's  "  Shakespeare's 
Librar)',"  part  i.,  vol.  iv.,  pp.  7-8),  which  is  copied  almost  hterally  at  act  2,  scene  i  of 
"  The  Tempest." 

The  following  is  the  entry  of  Montaigne's  Essays  in  English,  presumably  Florio's 
version,  at  Stationers'  Hall  (Arber,  iii.,  3)  : — 

"  20  of  October  1595 
Edward  Aggas.     Entred  for  his   Copie  vnder  the  handes  of  the  Wardenes  'The 

Essais'  of  Michaell  Lord  of  Mountene." 
Hence  it  would  seem  that  the  book  was  actually  ready  many  years  before  it  was 
committed  to  the  press,  and  it  may  have  been  circulated  in  MS.  among  Florio's 
friends.  Edward  Blount  registered  the  Essays  with  Florio's  name  as  the  trans- 
lator, on  the  4th  June,  1600,  three  years  before  their  actual  appearance  in  type,  so 
far  as  we  know.     See  Arber,  iii.,  59. 

MONTAIGNE,  Michel  de.  Essays  of  Michael  Seigneur  de 
Montaigne.  In  Three  Books.  With  Marginal  Notes  and  Quotations 
of  the  cited  Authors.  And  an  Account  of  the  Author's  Life.  Now 
rendred  into  English  By  Charles  Cotton,  Esq ;  —  Viresqiie  acqiiirit 
eimdo.  Virg.  lib.  4.  JS.xv.  London,  Printed  for  T.  Basset  ....  1685-6. 
3  vols.    8vo. 

The  first  edition  of  Cotton's  translation.  Dedicated  to  George,  Marquis  of 
Halifax.  In  the  preface  Cotton  observes:  "My  Design  in  attempting  this  Trans- 
lation, was  to  present  my  Countr)-  with  a  true  Copy  of  a  very  brave  Original ;  How 
far  I  have  succeeded  in  that  Design,  is  left  to  every  one  to  judge  .  .  .  ." 

MONTALVAN,  Juan  Perez  de.  Sucessos  y  prodigios  de  amor. 
En  ocho  novelas  exemplares.  En  Tortosa,  par  Francisco  Alartorell. 
1635.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  with  sig.  f ,  8  leaves  ;  A — Gg  in  eights  ;  Hh,  4  leaves, 
the  last  blank. 

MONTANUS,  Arnoldus.  De  Nieuwe  en  Onbekende  Weereld  : 
of  Beschryving  van  America  en  'tZuid-land,  Vervaetende  d'Oorsprong 

der  Americaenen  en  Zuid-landers f  Amsterdam  ....  1671.   Folio. 

Large  paper.    Maps  and  plates. 

Frontispiece,  title,  and  dedication,  4  leaves  ;  pp.  1-5S5  ;  index  and  directions 
for  placing  the  maps  and  plates,  27  pages. 

MONTANUS,  Bened.  Arias.  Humanae  Salvtis  Monvmenta. 
B.  Arise  Montani  stvdio  constructa  et  decantata.  Antverp.  Ex  pro- 
to-typographia  regia.  Chris toph.  Plantinvs  D.S.P.F.C.  IS/I.  4to. 
Plates.     R.  M. 


990  MONTANUS—MONTEITH. 

A— K  4  in  eights,  including  the  engraved  title,  and  A— B  in  eights,  the  last  leaf 
blank.     The  plates  are  mostly  engraved  by  Wierx  after  P.  van  de  Borcht. 

MONTANUS,  RegINALDUS  GonsalVIUS.  Sanctae  Inqvisitionis 
Hispanicae  artes  aliquot  detectaj,  ac  palam  traductse.  Exempla  aliqvot, 
praeter  ea  qu§  suo  qu^q,  loco  in  ipso  opere  sparsa  sunt,  seorsum  reposita, 
in  quibus  easdem  Inquisitorias  artes  veluti  in  tabulis  quibusdam  in 
ipso  porr6  exercitio  intueri  licet.  Addimvs  appendicis  vice  plorum 
quorumdam  martyrum  Christi  elogia,  qui  cum  mortis  suppliciu  ob  fidei 
confessionem  Christiana  constantia  tulerint,  Inquisitores  cos  suis  arti- 
bus  perfidise  ac  defectionis  infamarint.  Reginaldo  Gonsalvio  Montano 
authore  ....  Heidelbergce.    1567.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  errata,  2  leaves  ;  *,  8  leaves  ;  **,  8  leaves,  the  last  two  blank  ;  A— T  6 
in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

A  Discovery  and  playne  Declaration  of  sundry  subtill  prac- 
tises of  the  Holy  Inqvisition  of  Spayne.  Certaine  speciall  examples 
set  aparte  by  them  selues,  besides  other  that  are  here  and  there 
dispersed  in  their  most  conuenient  places,  wherein  a  man  may  see  the 
forsaid  practises  of  the  Inquisition,  as  they  be  practised  and  exercised 
very  liuely  described.  Set  forth  in  Latine,  by  Reginaldus  Gonsaluius 
Montanus,  and  newly  Translated.  [Quotation.]  Imprinted  at  London, 
by  Ikon  Day,  dwelling  oner  Aldersgate,  beneath  S.  Marlines.  And  are 
to  be  solde  at  his  shop  vnder  the  gate.    1568.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  IT  B,  4  leaves  ;  *  B,  4  leaves  ;  B — Dd  3  in  fours,  no  sig.  Z. 

[MONTBRON,  Fougeret  dk]  Le  Cosmopolite,  ou  le  Citoyen 
du  Monde.    Aiix  di'pcns  de  Vaiitenr.    1752.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Lord  Byron  took  the  opening  sentence  of  this  book  as  the  epigraph  for  his 
poem  of  "  Childe  Harold." 

MONTE,  Jo.  DE.  Jesuis  F.  Jo.  de  mote  Parisiensis  minorite  cum 
cantu  versibus  elegis  accommodo.  \Paris.  N.  de  la  Barre.  s.  «.]  4to. 
Woodcuts.    G.  M. 

A — F  in  fours. 

On  the  title  is  the  device  of  N.  de  la  Barre,  a  printer  who  carried  on  his  busi- 
ness at  Paris  at  the  beginning  of  the  sixteenth  century.  From  the  Yemeniz  col- 
lection. 

MONTEITH,  Robert.  An  Theater  of  Mortality  :  Or,  the  Illus- 
trious Inscriptions  Extant  upon  the  several  Monuments,  Erected  over 
the  dead  Bodies  (of  the  sometime  Honourable  Persons)  Buried  within 
the  Gray-friars  Church-Yard ;  and  other  Churches  and  Burial-Places 
within  the  City  of  Edinburgh  and  Suburbs  :  Collected  and  Englished 

by  R.  Monteith,  M.A Edinburgh,  Printed  by  the  Heirs  and 

Successors  of  Andreiv  Anderson MDCCIV.    An  Theater  of 

Mortality :    or,   A  Further   Collection  of   Funeral-Inscriptions   over 


MONTEMAYOR— MONTGOMERY.  991 

Scotland ;  gathered  From  Edinburgh,  Dundee,  Aberdeen,  Stirling, 
Linlithgow,  St.  Andrews,  Glasgow  .  .  .  Whereto  are  subjoined  In- 
scriptions upon  the  Passion  and  Death  of  our  Blessed  Saviour,  and 
upon  the   Death   of  Marie,  Queen   of  Scots,   King  James  VI.  and 

K.  Charles  I.    With  Foreign  Epitaphs By  Robert  Monteith  .... 

Edinburgh M.DCC.XIII.    In  one  vol.    8vo. 

First  part  :  A^L  in  fours,  besides  a  half-title.  Second  part  :  title,  dedication, 
and  list  of  subscribers,  4  leaves  ;  A — Mm  in  fours ;  between  Hh  and  li  are  two 
unpaged  leaves  marked  H. 

MONTEMAYOR.    Primera   y   segunda   parte   de   la  Diana  de 
George  de  Montemayor  Agora  nveuamente  corregidas  y  emendadas. 
En  Madrid,  por  Luis  Sanchez.    1595.    In  agenda  form.    R.  M. 
Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  pp.  1-467. 

Parte  primera  y  segunda,  de  la  Diana  de  George  de  Monte 

Mayor.  Aora  nueuamente  corregida  y  emendada  Ario  1614.  Con 
licencia  del  Ordinario.  En  Barcelona,  en  casa  Sebastian  de  Cormcllas, 
al  Call.    Sm.  8vo.    br.  m. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves;  pp.  1-359. 

MONTENAY,  Georgette  de.  Emblemes,  ov  devises  chres- 
tiennes  Composees  par  Damoiselle  Georgette  de  Montenay.  A  Lyon, 
Par  Jean  Marcorelle.    M.D.LXXI.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves,  the  last  blank;  folios  i-ioo,  each  with  an 
engraving  by  P.  VVoeriot,  and  8  other  leaves  not  numbered. 

Georgise  Montaneae,  Nobilis  Gallae,  Emblematvm  christia- 

norvm   centvria Tigiiri   Apud  Cliristoplwrum  Froschoverum. 

CID.ID.XXCLIII.    4to.    Plates,    br.  m. 

a — z  and  A — F  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  engravings  in  this  edition  are  from  the  same  plates  as  those  of  the  original 
French  version  described  above. 

MONTESINOS,  Fernando.  Avto  de  la  Fe  celebrado  en  Lima 
a  23.  de  Enero  de  1639.  Al  Tribvnal  del  Santo  Oficio  de  la  Inquisi- 
cion,  de  los  Reynos  del  Peru,  Chile,  Paraguay,  y  Tucuman.  Por  el 
Licenciado  D.  Fernando  de  Montesinos  Presbitero,  natural  de  Ossuna. 
Con  Licencia  de  sv  Excelencia,  del  Ordinario,  y  del  santo  Oficio. 
Impresso  en  Lima,  por  Pedro  de  Cabrera;  Aflo  de  1639.  Vendense  en 
la  tienda  de  Simon  Chirinos,  Mercader  de  Libros.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A— G  in  fours. 

MONTGOMERY,  Alexander.  The  Cherrie  and  the  Slae. 
Compyled  into  meeter,  by  Captain  Alexander  Montgomery.  Glasgow, 
Printed  by  Robert  Sanders,  One  of  His  Majesties  Printers.  Anno  Dom. 
1698.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    The  edges  uncut. 


992 


MON  TGOMER  Y—MO  OBEY.  |  > 


A,  8  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves ;  C,  8  leaves ;  D,  4  leaves. 

At  the  end  are  added  three  of  Montgomery's  miscellaneous  pieces,  and  on  the 
back  of  the  title  is  given  his  sonnet  to  the  Blessed  Trinity. 

MONTGOMERY,  Alexander.  The  Chcrrie  and  the  Slae. 
Compiled  into  Meeter  by  Captain  Alexander  Montgomery.  Belfast, 
Priiite[d]  and  Sold  by  Patrick  Neill.  1700.  Sm.  Svo.  The  edges 
uncut.    G.  M. 

Fifteen  leaves.     From  Mr.  Daniel's  library. 

MONTPENSIER.    M^moires  de  Mademoiselle  de  Montpensier, 

fille  de  Gaston  d'Orleans,  fr^re  de  Louis  XIII A  Maestricht. 

.  .  .   1776.    8  vols.    Sm.  Svo.    G.  M. 

MONTSERRAT.  Libro  dela  Historia  y  milagros  hechos  a  inuo- 
cacion  de  nuestra  Senora  de  Montserrat.  Con  Priuilegio.  1550. 
[Colophon.]  A^ui  se  acaba  cl  presente  libro  dela  historia  j  milagros  de 
lira  seflora  de  Montserrat :  el  qualfiie  impresso  en  la  muy  insigne  ciudad 
de  Barcelona,  par  Pedro  Mdpezat  en  el  ano  de  M.  D.  L.  [At  the  end  of 
the  table.]  Excudebat  Barcinone  Petrus  Bodin.  1550.  4to.  Black 
letter. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  folios  i.-ccvi. ;  tabla,  9  leaves. 

The  only  bibUographer  who  mentions  this  book  is  Antonio,  and  as  no  author's 
name  is  given  on  the  title  it  was  only  to  be  found  by  searching  the  "  Index  materia- 
rum,"  and  there  we  find  under  "  Historias  diversarum  sacrarum  imaginum  Maria; 
deiparae,"  the  entry,  "  Gundisalvus  de  Sojo.  De  Monserrate."  Turning  to  this 
author's  name  we  have  the  following  account :  "  F.  Gundisalvus  de  Sojo,  Bene- 
dictinus,  aut  forte  antiquior  alius  monachus  inclitas  domus  S.  Mariae  Virginis  de 
Monteserrato  in  Catalonia,  edidit  :  '  Historia  y  milagros  de  Nuestra  Seiiora  de 
Monserrate.  Barcinone.  1594.'  Svo.  post  antiquiores  editiones  annorum  156S. 
&  1587.  Attamen  prima  conceptio  hujus  operis  facta  est  anno  MDXIV.  ad  instan- 
tiam  D.  Joannis  de  Aragonia,  ducis  de  Luna,  comitisde  Ribagorza,  ut  ex  prseambula 
innotescit  epistola  ejus  ad  monasterii  abbatem."  This  edition  of  1550  was  evidently 
unknown  to  Antonio  and  apparently  to  all  other  bibliographers. 

On  the  flyleaf  of  this  copy  is  a  MS.  inscription,  by  T.  v.  Freundtsperg,  to  the 
effect  that  he  purchased  the  book  on  the  mountain  itself,  on  the  23rd  of  July,  1551, 
and  Richard  Ford,  the  Spanish  traveller  and  scholar,  to  whom  the  book  afterwards 
belonged,  has  remarked  in  a  note  on  the  flyleaf,  that  Freundtsperg  was  the  name  of 
the  commander  of  Charles  Vth's  German  Hausknechts.  Ford  bought  the  volume 
at  Heber's  sale. 

MOODEY,  Samuel.  A  Summary  Account  of  the  Life  and  Death 
of  Joseph  Ouasson,  Indian  ;  Who  on  the  28.  Day  of  August  1725.  at 
Arundel  in  the  County  of  York,  &  Province  of  Main,  in  New-England, 
Shot  his  Fellow-Soldier  and  Kinsman,  John  Peter:  So  that  he  died  of 
the  Wound  in  a  few  Days.  For  which  Murder  being  Apprehended, 
Tried,  and  after  Conviction,  condemned  at  York  in  the  Province  afore- 
said, on  the  12'''  of  May  following ;  he  was  there  Executed  on  the  29'''  of 


MOOR— MORE.  993 

June,  1726.    By  Samuel  Moodey,  M.A.  Pastor  to  the  Church  in  York. 

Boston,  Printed  for  S.  Gerrish,  the  lower  End  of  Cornhill.    1726.    Sm. 

8vo.    R.  M. 

A — F  in  fours. 

MOOR,  Edward.    The  Hindu  Pantheon.    London 18 10. 

4to.    Plates  and  frontispiece. 

MOORE,  Jonas.  Moores  Arithmetick.  In  Two  Bookes :  Dis- 
covering the  Secrets  of  that  Art,  In  Numbers  and  Species,  after  a  more 
exact,  plaine,  and  easie  way,  then  ever.  The  first  teaching  (by  Pre- 
cept and  Example)  the  ordinary  Operations  in  Numbers,  whole  and 
broken  ....  The  second,  the  great  Rule  of  Algebra  in  Species  .... 
With  a  Canon  of  the  Powers  of  Numbers.  Fitted  to  the  meanest 
Capacity,  and  published  for  the  generall  good  of  this  Nation.  By 
Jonas  Moore,  late  of  Durham.  London,  Printed  by  Thomas  Harper 
for  Nathaniel  Brookes,  at  tlu  Angell  in  Cornehill,  1650.  Snn.  8vo. 
Portrait  by  T.  Cross. 

The  first  part :  A — S  in  eights,  besides  a  folding  leaf  between  B  and  C.  The 
second  book,  with  a  new  title  :  Aa,  2  leaves  ;  Bb — LI  2  in  eights,  besides  two  folding 
leaves  in  Bb  and  Ff. 

MOOY,  Maarten.  Omstandig  Journaal  van  de  Reize  naar  Groen- 
land,   gedaan    door   Commandeur   Maarten    Mooy,   Met    het   Schip 

Frankendaal Gedriikt  voor  Rekening  van  den   Commandeur 

Amsterdam 1787-    4to. 

A — I  in  fours. 

MORANT,  Philip.  The  History  and  Antiquities  of  the  County 
of  Essex.  Compiled  from  the  best  and  most  ancient  Historians  ;  from 
Domesday-Book,  Inquisitiones  post  Mortem  ....  Illustrated  with 
Copper  Plates.    London  .  .  .  1768.    2  vols.    Folio.    Large  paper.    R. 

The  present  copy  has  about  icxx)  coats  of  arms  emblazoned  by  Dowse  in  the 
margins.  A  duplicate  title,  dated  1766,  is  inserted  in  voL  2,  as  occasionally  happens, 
and  the  preface  to  that  volume  is  cancelled  as  usual. 

MORE,  George.  A  Demonstration  of  God  in  his  workes.  Against 
all  such  as  eyther  in  word  or  life  deny  there  is  a  God.    By  George 

More At  London  Printed  by  L  R.for  Thomas  Cltarde.    1597. 

4to.    BL.  M. 

A — X  in  fours,  but  5  leaves  in  D. 

Dedicated  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  after  which  is  "  The  Preface  to  England." 

MORE,  Henry.  Historia  Missionis  Anglicanae  Societatis  lesv,  ab 
anno  salvtis,  MD.LXXX.  ad  DC.XIX.  et  Vice-provincis  primvm,  tvm 

6  a 


994  MORE. 

Provinci'jE  ad  eivsdem  saecvli  annvm  xxxv Avdomari  Typis 

Tliomce  Gevbels  M.DC.LX.     Folio.    BL.  M. 

Engraved  title,  I  leaf;  pp.  1-5 1 8,  including  title  and  preliminaries  ;  index  and 
errata,  9  leaves. 

MORE,  Sir  Thomas.  The  workes  of  Sir  Thomas  More  Knyght, 
sometyme  Lorde  Chauncellour  of  England,  wrytten  by  him  in  the 
Englysh  tonge.  Printed  at  London  at  the  costes  and  charges  of  lolui 
Cawod,  John  Wa/y,  and  Richarde  Tottell.  Anno.  1557.  [Colophon.] 
Imprinted  at  London  in  Fletestrete  at  the  sygne  of  the  hande  and  starve, 
at  the  coste  and  charge  of  John  Cawod,  John  Walley,  and  Richarde 
Tot  tie.  Finished  in  Apryll,  the  yere  of  our  Lorde  God.  1557.  Qim 
priiiilcgio,  &c.    Folio.    Black  letter.    O.  M. 

Title-page,  I  leaf;  dedication  to  Queen  Mary,  by  W.  Rastell,  i  leaf;  "The 
table  of  the  workes,"  &c.,  I  leaf ;  "  A  table  of  many  matters,"  &c.,  6  leaves,  followed 
by  a  blank  leaf;  "These  fowre  thinges  here  folowyng  Mayster  Thomas  More  wrote 
in  his  youth  for  his  pastime,"  8  leaves  ;  a — e  in  eights  ;  f  g  (one  signature),  8  leaves  ; 
h — zz  in  eights  ;  A — BB  in  eights  ;  CC,  9  leaves,  including  one  unpaged  between 
1 1 38  and  1 1 39  ;  D  D— ZZ  5  in  eights. 

Libellus  vere  aureus  nee  minvs  salvtaris  quam  festiuus  de 


Optimo  reip.  statu,  deq,  noua  Insula  Vtopia  authore  clarissimo  viro 
Thoma  Moro  inclytre  ciuitatis  Londinensis  ciue  &  vicecomite  cura 
M.  Petri  Aegidii  Antuerpiesis,  &  arte  Tlieodorici  Martini  Ahistensis, 
Typographi  almce  Loiiatiiensium  Academics  nunc  primum  accuratissime 
editus.:.  Cum  gratia  & priuilegio.    [15 16.]    4to.    BL.  M. 

First  edition.  Title  and  three  preliminary  leaves  without  signature.  On  the 
fourth  preliminary  leaf  begin  the  signatures,  which  run  a — 1  in  fours,  ending  with  m, 
6  leaves.  On  the  reverse  of  the  title  is  a  large  woodcut,  headed,  "  Vtopiae  Insvlae 
figvra,"  and  on  the  reverse  of  the  last  leaf  is  the  large  woodcut  of  Thierry  Martin's 
device.  Lowndes  and  Brunet  both  give  the  number  of  leaves  which  the  book  should 
contain  correctly,  but  both  are  mistaken  in  assigning  twelve  leaves  instead  of  eight 
to  the  title  and  preliminaries. 

A  fruteful,  and  pleasaunt  worke  of  the  beste  state  of  a  pub- 


lyque  weale,  and  of  the  newe  yle  called  Utopia  :  written  in  Latine  by 
Syr  Thomas  More  knyght,  and  translated  into  Englyshe  by  Raphe 
Robynson  Citizein  and  Goldsmythe  of  London,  at  the  procurement, 
and  earnest  request  of  George  Tadlowe  Citezein  &  Haberdassher  of 
the  same  Citie.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Abraham  Vele,  dwelling  in 
Pauls  churchy arde  at  the  sygne  of  the  Lambe.  Anno.  1551.  Sm.  8vo. 
Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

►J«,  8  leaves  ;  A,  4  leaves  ;  B — S  4  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  "  Maister  William  Cecylle,  esquiere."  First  edition  of  Robinson's 
translation. 

A  frutefull  pleasaunt,  &  wittie  worke,  of  the  beste  state  of  a 

publique  weale,  and  of  the  new  yle  called  Utopia :  written  in  Latine, 


MORE.  995 

by  the  right  worthie  and  famous  Syr  Thomas  More  knyght,  and  trans- 
lated into  Englishe  by  Raphe  Robynson,  sometime  fellowe  of  Corpus 
Christi  College  in  Oxford,  and  nowe  by  him  at  this  seconde  edition 
newlie  perused  and  corrected  and  also  with  diuers  notes  in  the  margent 
augmented.  Imprinted  at  London,  by  Abraham  Vde,  dwellinge  in 
Pauls  cJmrchyarde,  at  the  signe  of  the  Lambe.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted 
at  Londo  in  Panics  Chnrche  yarde,  at  tJu  Signe  of  the  Lamb,  by  Abra- 
ham Veale.    M.D.L  VI.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — S  in  eights. 

There  is  no  dedication  to  this  edition.  "  The  translatour  to  the  gentle  reader" 
follows  immediately  after  the  title  ;  in  it  the  writer  says  ;  "  The  hastye  bitche  bringeth 
furth  bhnd  whelpes.    For  whe  this  my  worke  was  finished,  the  rudenes  therof  shewed 

it  to  be  done  in  post  haste yet  I  trust  I  have  now  in  this  secode  editio  take 

about  it  such  paines,  y  verye  fewe  great  faultes  &  notable  errours  are  in  it  to  be 
foude." 

MORE,  Sir  Thomas.  Here  is  coteyned  the  lyfe  of  Johan  Picus 
Erie  of  Myrandula  a  grete  lorde  of  Italy  an  excellent  connynge  man 
in  all  sciences/  &  verteous  of  lyuynge.  With  dyuers  epystles  &  other 
werkes  of  y  sayd  Johan  Picus  full  of  grete  science  vertue  &  wysedome/ 
whose  lyfe  &  werkes  bene  worthy  &  dygne  to  be  redde  and  often 
to  be  had  in  memorye.  [Colophon.]  Enpryntcd  at  London  in  tlie 
Fletestrete  at  the  sygne  of  the  Somie,  by  me  Wynkyn  de  Worde.  [n.  d.] 
4to.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A — G  4  in  sixes.     A  woodcut  on  the  title. 

Dedicated  by  More  "  Unto  his  ryght  entyerly  beloued  syster  in  chryst  Joyeuce 
Leygh."  The  last  ten  leaves  are  occupied  by  the  "  xii.  rules  of  Johan  Picus  erle  of 
Myrandula,"  and  other  pieces,  in  verse. 

The  supplycacyon  of  soulys  Made   by  syr  Thomas   More 

knyght  councellour  to  our  souerayn  lorde  the  Kynge  and  chauncellour 
of  hys  Duchy  of  Lancaster.  Agaynst  the  supplycacyon  of  beggars. 
[On  L  4  recto  occurs  :]  Finis.  Cum  priuilegio.  [No  place,  printers 
name,  or  date.]    [W.  Pastcll,  about  1S28.]    Folio.    Black  letter. 

A — L  in  fours. 

See  Herbert's  Ames,  pp.  338,  481-2.  Herbert  places  the  book  under  1534, 
clearly  too  late  a  date,  as  More  had  been  made  Lord  Chancellor  considerably  before 
that,  and  on  the  title  he  is  expressly  described  as  holding  an  office  of  inferior 
dignity. 

A  dyaloge  of  syr  Thomas  More  knyghte  :  one  of  the  coun- 

sayll  of  our  souerayne  lorde  the  kyng  and  chauncelloure  of  hys  duchy 
of  Lancaster.  Wheryn  be  treatyd  dyuers  maters/  as  of  the  veneracyon 
&  worship  of  ymagys  &  relyques/  prayng  to  sayntis/  &  goynge  on 
pylgrymage.  Wyth  many  other  thyngys  touchyng  the  pestylent  secte 
of  Luther  &  Tyndale/  by  the  tone  bygone  in  Saxony/  &  by  the  tother 
laboryd  to  be  brought  in  to  England.    Newly  ouersene  by  the  sayd 


996  MORE. 

syr  Thomas  More  chauncellour  of  England.  1530.  [Colophon.]  C7im 
priidlegio regali.  Anno  domini.  M.v.Cjcxxi.mense Mali.  Folio.  Black 
letter.    BR.  M. 

a— z  in  sixes  ;  A— D  4  in  sixes,  the  last  leaf  having  only  the  errata. 

From  the  press  of  W.  Rastell. 

MORE,  Sir  Thomas.  The  debellacyon  of  Salem  and  Bizance. 
[Colophon.]  Prynted  by  IV.  Rastell  in  Flctestrete  in  saynte  Bridys 
chyrchyarde,  the  yere  of  otir  lorde.  1533.  Cum  priidlegio.  Sm.  8vo, 
Black  letter.    G.  M. 

Part  I  :  a— n  in  eights,  including  title,  "  The  declaracyon  of  the  tytle,"  and 
preface.  Part  2 :  A— Y  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank  ;  Y  6  and  Y  7  bear  only  the 
errata. 

A  Dialogve  Of  Cumfort  against  Tribulation,  made  by  the 

right  Vertuous,  Wise  and  Learned  man.  Sir  Thomas  More,  sometime 
L.  Chanceller  of  England,  which  he  wrote  in  the  Tower  of  London, 
An.  1534.  and  entituled  thus  :  A  Dialogue  of  Cumfort  against  Tribu- 
lation, made  by  an  Hungarian  in  Latin,  and  translated  out  of  Latin 
into  French,  &  out  of  French  into  English.  Now  newly  set  foorth,  with 
many  places  restored  and  corrected  by  conference  of  sundrie  Copies. 
[Quotation  from  Eccli.  7.]  Antvcrpiae,  Apud  lohannem  Foulerum, 
Anditm.  M.D.LXXIII.    Sm.  8vo.     BL.  M. 

*,  S  leaves,  the  last  occupied  by  a  woodcut  portrait  of  More  ;  A — Z  in  eights  ; 
a — d  in  eights  ;  **,  4  leaves. 

The  Historie  of  the  PitifvU  Life,  and  unfortunate  Death  of 


Edward  the  fifth,  and  the  then  Duke  of  Yorke  his  brother :  With  the 
troublesome  and  tyrannical  government  of  usurping  Richard  the 
third,  and  his  miserable  end.  Written  by  the  Right  Honorable  Sir 
Thomas  Moore,  sometimes  Lord  Chancellor  of  England.  London, 
Printed  by  Thomas  Payne  for  tJu  Company  of  Stationers,  and  are  to  be 
sold  by  Mich  :  Yomig,  at  his  shop  in  Bedford-street  in  Covent-Garden, 
neere  the  new  Exchange,  1641.    Sm.  Svo. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  B — X  7  in  twelves  ;  with  portraits  of  the  two  kings. 

On  K  i  occurs  a  new  title  :  "  The  Tragicall  Historie  of  the  Life  and  Reigne  of 

Richard  the  Third.    Written London,  Printed  by  T.  Paine  and  M.  Simmons. 

1641." 

Dedicated  by  W.[illiam]  S.[heares],  the  stationer,  "  To  the  Right  Worshipfvll 
Sir  John  Lenthall  Knight,  Marshall  of  the  Kings-Bench."  Two  titles  were  printed 
to  this  book  ;  in  the  other  it  is  said  to  be  "  Printed  by  Thomas  Payne  for  Witliatn 
Sheares,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Michael  Young."     From  the  Towneley  collection, 

Expositio  fidelis  de  morte  D.  Thomse  Mori  &  quorundam 


alioru  insignium  uirorum  in  Anglia.    \Sine  loco?^    yJ«;w  1535.    4to. 
Twelve  leaves.     A  fine  portrait  of  Sir  Thomas  More  by  Moncornet  is  inserted. 
This  is  the  earliest  published  account  of  the  trial  and  death  of  Sir  Thomas  More. 


MORE.  997 

It  is  headed  (on  the  verso  of  the  title),  "  P.  M.  Caspari  Agrip.  s.  d.,"  and  ends  on 
the  verso  of  the  twelfth  leaf  with  the  subscription,  "  Apud  Lutetian!  Parisiorum  Cal. 
Augusti,  Anno  1535."     It  was  probably  printed  at  Paris. 

At  p.  8  is  the  following  account  of  the  verdict  given  on  the  trial  of  Sir  Thomas 
More  :  "  Post  hsc  uocati  sunt  per  quendam  ostiarijs,  duodecim  uiri,  iuxta  getis 
illius  cosuetudine,  quibus  traditi  sunt  articuli,  ut  super  illis  consultarent,  ac  post 
consultatione  iudicarent  ac  pronuciarent,  utrii  Thomas  Morvs  malitiose  obstitisset 
pdictas  costitutioni  Regis,  an  non.  Qui  quu  per  hor§  quarta  partem  secessissent, 
reuersi  sunt  ad  principes  ac  iudices  delegatos,  ac  pronucianit  Killim,  hoc  est,  dignus 
est  morte." 

MORE,  Sir  Thomas.  D.  O.  M.  S.  The  Life  and  Death  of  Sir 
Thomas  Moore  Lord  high  Chancellour  of  England.  Written  by 
M.  T.  M.  and  dedicated  to  the  Queenes  most  gracious  Maiestie.  [No 
place,  printer' s  name,  or  date.']     [Printed  abroad  about  1630.]     4to. 

Title  and  dedication  to  Queen  Henrietta  Maria,  4  leaves  ;  A — Hhh  in  fours. 

A  posthumous  publication,  edited  by  a  friend,  who  signs  the  dedication  to  the 
Queen.  The  dedicatory  Epistle  states  that  the  author  took  part  in  the  arrange- 
ments connected  with  the  espousal  of  Charles  I.  and  the  French  princess,  and  was 
buried  in  the  French  Church  at  Rome  by  his  own  desire.  The  editor  calls  him 
"  eldest  Sonne  by  descent,  &  heire  by  nature  of  the  family  of  that  worthy  Martyr." 

The  Life  of  Sir  Thomas  More,  K'.  Lord  High  Chancellor  of 

England  under  K.  Henry  the  Eighth.  .  .  .  By  his  Great  Grandson, 
Thomas  More,  Esq ;  Zi7«i2'(?«.     1726.    8vo.    Portrait.    R. 

MORE  NEWS  FROM  ROME  or  Magna  Charta,  Discoursed  of 
between  a  Poor  Man  &  his  Wife.  As  also,  a  New  Font  erected  in  the 
Cathedral-Church  at  Gloucester,  in  October,  1663,  and  consecrated  by 
the  Reverend  moderate  Bishop,  D'.  William  Nicolson,  Angel  of  the 
said  Church,  according  to  the  account  of  that  infamously  famous  Man, 
D^  Lee.  As  also,  An  Assertion  of  D''.  William  Warmstrey,  Dean  of 
Worcester,  wherein  he  affirmeth,  that  It  is  a  lesser  sin  for  a  man  to  kill 
his  Father,  than  to  refrain  from  coming  to  the  Divine  Service  esta- 
blished in  the  Church  of  England.  The  one  was  the  killing  of  a  par- 
ticular Person,  The  other  made  a  breach  in  the  Mystical  Body  of 
Christ.  The  Members  of  the  Mystical  Body  distinctly  discoursed  on. 
By  the  said  Poor  Man  and  his  Wife.  Imprinted  at  Londott  for  the 
Author,  for  the  only  benefit  of  his  Wife  and  Children,  Anno  1666,  when 
time  shall  come.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours. 

MORE  WARNING  YET.  Being  A  True  Relation  of  A  Strange 
and  most  Dreadfull  Apparition  Which  was  seen  in  the  Air  By  several 
persons  at  Hvll,  the  third  day  of  this  present  Septemb.  1654.  Namely, 
Two  Great  Battels  Fought  in  the  Air :  One  Army  coming  from  the 
East,  and  Another  out  of  the  North-West.    With  the  maner  of  their 


998  MOR  EJON^MOR  GA  N. 

Engagement  and  Victory.    Enclosed  in  a  Letter  from  a  Godly-Learned 

Minister  of  the  Gospel  in  the  said  Town  of  Hull,  who  having  diligently 

examined  the   truth   thereof,  sent  it  up  to  be  published.    Printed  at 

London,  by  J.  Cottrcl ;  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Richard  Moone,  at  the 

sezien  Stars  in  Paul's  Church-yard.    [1654.]    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  3rd  September,  1654,  was  the  day  of  the  battle  of  Dunbar. 

MOREJON,  Diego  DE.  La  vida  de  Sancta  Anna,  y  el  origen  y 
parentezco  de  nuestra  Sefiora  la  Virgen  Maria,  nueuamente  trobada  por 
Diego  de  Morejon.    Impressa  con  licencia  en  Salamanca.    [1605.]    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

At  the  top  of  the  title  is  an  ornamental  border,  and  above  the  imprint  a  small 
cut  of  the  Virgin  and  Child.    The  piece  is  in  metre. 

MORENO,  Christoval.  Tratado  de  las  excellencias  del  agva 
bendita.  .  .  .  hnpresso  en  Valencia,  en  casa  de  Jnan  Grysostomo  Garriz. 
....  Aflo  M.DC.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  16  leaves  ;  pp.  1-263  J  table,  28  leaves. 

MORGA,   Antonio   de.     Svcesos  de  las  Islas  Filipinas 

En  Mexico.    En  casa  de  Gcronymo  Balli.    A  no  1609.    4to. 
Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  folios  1-172. 

MORGAN,  Sylvanus.  Prognosticon  Posthumum.    1641.  Exactly 

calculated  to  the  Meridion  of  London,  and  may  indifferently  seme  for 

all  England.    By  way  of  Caution,  to  the  people  of  England,  Scotland, 

and  Ireland,  that  shall  happen  to  reade  Na-worth.   Asan  Appendix  to 

Maister  lohn  Bookers  Mercurius  Ccelicus.    London,  Printed  by  a  more 

warrantable  Licence  then  Domino  D.  Arch.  Cant.  Secellanus  Domesticus. 

1643.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

The  Sphere  of  Gentry :    Deduced    from   the   Principles   of 

Natvre,  an  Historical  and  Genealogical  Work,  of  Arms  and  Blazon  ; 
in  Four  Books,  entituled, 


The 


Gentleman,  "\  Adams  Shield,  \  >^  i   Native. 

Esqvire,         f  Josephs  Coat,  f  iS  J    Dative, 

Knight,         I  Vulcan  &  Minerva,     (  "o  1    Atchieved, 

King,  J  Fountain  of  Honour,  J  "^  V.   Created. 


In  which  is  contained,  The  Genealogies  of  the  Patriarchs  ....  Arms 
&  Ensignes  of  the  English  Nation  :  Accommodated  with  lively  Cutts 
on  Copper,  as  well  for  Aarons  Brest-plate  as  Ariadne's  Crown. 
Drawn  down  to  King  Charles  II.    London.   Printed  by  William  Ley- 


MORILLATEN—MORLAND.  ggg 

bmirne  for  tJie  Author,  livmg  at  the  City  Coat,  on  the  back  side  of  the 
Royall  Exchange.    1661.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Engraved  title  ;  letterpress  title  ;  *  To  the  King,"  i  leaf ;  "  To  the  reader,"  2 
leaves  ;  commendatory  verses,  "  Upon  this  most  Accurajte  and  Elaborate  Work," 
2  leaves  ;  "  The  words  of  Art,"  i  leaf;  "  The  Names  of  the  Constellations,"  i  leaf; 
B — Yyyy  in  twos  ;  II  and  MMM  are  not  marked.  There  are  plates  of  arms  at 
pages  8,  9,  18,  19,  22,  23,  46,  47,  58,  59,  in  book  I,  and  a  title  and  dedication  to  the 
third  book  between  3  P  and  3  Q.  5  A — 5  H  in  twos  ;  S  I  is  thrice  repealed,  making 
6  leaves  under  that  signature  ;  5  K — 6  L  in  twos,  e.xcept  5  N  which  has  3  leaves, 
and  5  X  which  has  4.  The  plate  of  the  "  Achievement  of  a  Baron  "  comes  in 
Book  4,  after  p.  (39.),  and  the  Howard  pedigree  at  p.  84.  The  engravings  on  sigs. 
Ssss  and  Ssss  2  are  often  deficient.  Pages  75-6  and  11 3-4  in  Book  i,  79-80  in 
Book  2,  101-4  and  119  in  Book  3,  are  in  duplicate  with  variations. 

MORILLATEN,  Juan.  Refranes  y  auisos  por  via  de  consejos, 
hechos  por  luan  de  Morillaten  de  re^ados  a  vnos  amigos  suyos  casados. 
[5.  /.  71.  «.]    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

Beneath  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  a  king  and  queen  on  a  throne,  around  which 
kneel  nine  other  kings.  This  cut  is  also  used  in  a  piece  printed  in  Salamanca  by 
Antonia  Ramirez,  1607,  which  is  described  in  this  catalogue  under  "  Martin, 
Nicolas."  The  name  of  Juan  Morillaten  appears  to  be  otherwise  unknown  as  a 
Spanish  writer. 

MORISON,  Richard.  An  Invective  ayenste  the  great  and  detest- 
able vice,  treason,  wherein  the  secrete  practises,  and  traiterous  work- 
inges  of  theym,  that  suffrid  of  late  are  disclosed,  made  by  Rycharde 
Morisj'ne.  [Colophon.]  Loiidini  in  ccdibus  Thonice  Bcrtheleti  typis 
impress.  Ciiin priidlcgio  ad iinpriniendum  solum.  Anno.M.D.XXXIX. 
Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

a,  8  leaves,  the  last  two  blank  ;  A — F  4  in  eights. 

This  very  rare  book  was  written  after  the  failure  of  what  was  known  as  "  The 
Pilgrimage  of  Grace."  See  Herbert's  Ames,  p.  433,  note  b.  Herbert  says,  A — F  4 
in  octaves,  but  he  does  not  mention  the  preliminary  sheet. 

MORLAND,  Samuel.  The  History  of  The  Evangelical  Churches 
Of  the  Valleys  of  Piemont.  Containing  A  most  exact  Geographical 
Description  of  the  Place,  and  a  faithfull  Account  of  the  Doctrine,  Life, 
and  Persecutions  of  the  Ancient  Inhabitants.  Together,  With  a  most 
naked  and  punctual  Relation  of  the  late  Bloudy  Massacre,  1655.  And 
a  Narrative  of  all  the  following  Transactions,  to  the  Year  of  our  Lord, 
1658.  All  which  are  justified,  partly  by  divers  Ancient  Manuscripts 
written  many  hundred  Years  before  Calvin  or  Luther,  and  partly  by 
other  most  Authentick  Attestations  :  The  true  Originals  of  the  greatest 
part  whereof,  are  to  be  seen  in  their  proper  Languages  by  all  the  curious, 
in  the  Publick  Library  of  the  famous  University  of  Cambridge.  Col- 
lected and  compiled  with  much  pains  and  industry,  By  Samvel  Mor- 
land,  Esq ;  During  his  abode  in  Geneva,  in  quality  of  His  Highness 


looo  MORLEY. 

Commissioner  Extraordinary  for  the  Affairs  of  the  said  Valleys  and 
particularly  for  the  Distribution  of  the  Collected  Moneys,  among  the 
remnant  of  those  poor  distressed  People.  [Quotation  from  Revel,  vi.  9.] 
London  Printed  by  Henry  Hills,  one  of  His  Highnesses  Printers,  for 
Adoniram  By  field,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  three  Bibles  in  Cornhill,  next 
to  Popes-head  Alley,  1658.  Folio.  With  a  portrait  of  Morland  by 
Lombart  after  Lely.    BL.  M. 

A,  6  leaves  ;  [a]— [h]  in  fours,  but  no  [f]  ;  folded  map  of  the  valleys  of  Piedmont  j 
B— Xxxx  in  fours.     With  engravings  on  the  letterpress. 

MORLEY,  Thomas.  Cantvs  [Altvs,  Tenor,  Quintvs,  Bassvs]  of 
Thomas  Morley.  The  First  Booke  of  Balletts  to  Five  Voyces.  In 
London  by  Thomas  Este.    CID.  I'J.  XC.  V.    5  vols.    4to.    R.  M. 

Cantus,  title,  &c.,  2  leaves,  B— E  2  in  fours  ;  Altus,  Tenor,  Quintus,  and  Bassus, 
the  same. 

On  the  back  of  the  dedication  to  Sir  R.  Cecil  occur  the  following  lines,  headed, 
"  M.[aster]  M.[ichaelj  D.[rayton]  to  the  Avthor"  :— 
"  Svch  was  old  Orpheus  cunning, 
That  sencelesse  things  drew  neere  him, 
And  heards  of  beasts  to  heare  him, 
The  stock,  the  stone,  the  Oxe,  the  Asse  came  running. 
MORLEY !  but  this  enchaunting 
To  thee,  to  be  the  Music-God  is  wanting. 
And  yet  thou  needst  not  feare  him  ; 
Draw  thou  the  Shepherds  still  and  Bonny-lasses, 
And  enuie  him  not  stocks,  stones,  Oxen,  Asses." 

Madrigals  to  fiue  voyces.    Celected  out  of  the  best  approued 

Italian  Authors.  By  Thomas  Morley  Gentleman  of  hir  Maiesties 
Royall  Chappel.  At  London  Printed  by  Tlw7nas  Este.  1598.  5  vols. 
4to.    R.  M. 

Each  of  the  five  parts,  Cantus,  Quintus,  Altus,  Tenor,  and  Bassus,  contains  A, 
2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Geruis  Clifton,  Knight. 

Madrigals  to  Fovre  voices   Published  by  Thomas  Morley. 

Now  newly  imprinted  with  some  Songs  added  by  the  Author.  At 
London :  Printed  by  Thomas  Este,  the  assign  of  Thomas  Morley.  1600. 
4  vols.    4to.    R.  M. 

Cantus,  A — D  2  in  fours  ;  Altus  and  Tenor,  the  same  ;  Bassus,  A — C  in  fours. 
This  was  the  second  edition  ;  the  first  appeared  in  1 594. 

Madrigales.    The  Triumphes  of  Oriana,  to  5.  and  6.  voices  : 


composed  by  diuers  seuerall  aucthors.  Newly  published  by  Thomas 
Morley,  Batcheler  of  Musick,  and  one  of  the  gentlemen  of  hir  Maiesties 
honorable  Chappell.  1601.  In  London  Printed  by  Thomas  Este,  the 
assigne  of  Thomas  Morley.    Cicm  priiiilegio.  .  .  .  6  vols.    4to.    R.  M. 


MORLEY— MORTON.  looi 

Cantus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — E  2  in  fours.     Altus,  Tenor,  and  Quintus,  the  same. 
Sextus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B — C  2  in  fours.     Bassus,  A,  i  leaves  ;  B — E  2  in  fours. 
Dedicated  to  Charles  Howard,  Earl  of  Nottingham. 

MORLEY,  Thomas.  Cansonets.  Or  little  short  Songs  to  Three 
Voyces  :  Pvblished  by  Thomas  Morley,  Bacheler  of  Musicke,  and  one 
of  the  Gent,  of  her  Maiesties  Royall  Chappel.  Now  newly  imprinted 
with  some  Songs  added  by  the  Avthor.  i6o6.  In  London  Printed 
by  T/tomas  Este,  the  assigne  of  William  Barley.    3  vols.    4to.    R.  M. 

Cantus,  A,  2  leaves  ;  B— F  2  in  fours.     Altus  and  Bassus,  the  same. 

This  is  the  second  edition,  the  first  was  published  in  1593.  Dedicated  to  the 
Countess  of  Pembroke. 

MORSSHEIM,  JOHAN  VON.    Spigel  des  Regimets  in  der  FUrsten 

h5fe,  da  Fraw  untrewe  gewaltig  ist.   Getriicktsii,  Oppenheim.   1515.  4to. 

A  poetical  piece  of  sixteen  leaves,  with  prettily  executed  woodcuts  on  the  side 


MORTON,  John.  The  Natural  History  of  Northampton-shire; 
with  Some  account  of  the  Antiquities.  To  which  is  Annex'd  A  Tran- 
script of  Doomsday-Book,  so  far  as  it  relates  to  That  County.  London 
171 2.     Folio.    Large  paper.    Alap  and  plates.    R. 

The  collation  in  Lowndes  as  to  text  and  plates  is  accurate  except  as  to  the 
transcript  of  Doomsday  Book,  which  occupies  pp.  1-46,  and  the  indices,  pp.  i.-x. 
Lowndes  states  that  the  transcript  extends  from  p.  i  to  p.  x.,  and  does  not  mention 
the  indices. 

MORTON,  Nathaniel.  New-England's  Memorial.  Or,  A  brief 
Relation  of  the  most  Memorable  and  Remarkable  Passages  of  the 
Providence  of  God  manifested  to  the  Planters  of  New-England  in 
America :  with  special   Reference  to  the  first  Colony  thereof,  called 

New-Plimouth Published  for  the  Use  and  Benefit  of  present 

and  future  Generations,  by  Nathaniel  Morton,  Secretary  to  the  Court 
for  the  Jurisdiction  of  New-Plimouth.  [Quotations.]  Boston.  Reprinted 
for  Daniel  Henchman,  .  .  .  .  1721.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — R  2  in  eights. 

Dedicated  to  Thomas  Prince,  Esq.,  Governor  of  New  Plymouth,  and  the  magis- 
trates of  the  government.  Some  elegiac  verses  on  the  deaths  of  sundry  new-world 
worthies  are  included  in  this  volume. 

[MORTON,  Thomas.]  A  Treatise  of  the  Nature  of  God.  Psal. 
18,  ii.  He  hath  made  darkness  his  secret  place.  London  Printed  by 
Tho.  Creede  for  Robert  Dexter,  diuelling  in  Pauls  Church-yard,  at  the 
Signe  of  the  Brazen  Serpent.    1599.    Sm.  Svo. 

A — Q  in  eights,  last  leaf  of  A  blank. 
Two  title-pages  were  printed  for  this  volume. 

6   B 


I0O2  MORTON— MOSTO. 

MORTON,  Thomas.  New  English  Canaan  Or  New  Canaan. 
Containing  an  Abstract  of  New  England,  Composed  in  three  Bookes. 
The  first  Booke  setting  forth  the  originall  of  the  Natives,  their  Manners 
and  Customes,  together  with  their  tractable  Nature  and  love  towards 
the  English.  The  second  Booke  setting  forth  the  naturall  Indow- 
ments  of  the  Country,  and  what  staple  Commodities  it  yealdeth.  The 
third  Booke  setting  forth,  what  people  are  planted  there,  their  pros- 
perity, what  remarkable  accidents  have  happened  since  the  first  plant- 
ing of  it,  together  with  their  Tenents  and  practise  of  their  Church. 
Written  by  Thomas  Morton  of  Cliffords  Inne  gent,  upon  tenne  yeares 
knowledge  and  experiment  of  the  Country.  Printed  at  Amsterdam,  By 
Jacob  Frederick  Stam.  In  the  Yeare  1637.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — Aa  in  fours. 

With  some  verses,  "In  laudem  Authoris,"  by  R.pchard]  0.[verton?],  Sir  Chris- 
topher Gardiner,  and  F.  C,  after  which  comes  the  author's  prologue  in  verse. 
There  is  a  good  deal  of  poetry  scattered  through  the  book.  Pp.  146-9  are  occupied 
by  a  set  of  verses  by  Ben  Jonson  in  honour  of  "  the  Baccanall  Triumphe  of  the 
nine  worthies  of  New  Canaan." 

MORYSON,  Fynes.  An  Itinerary  written  By  Fynes  Moryson 
Gent.  First  in  the  Latine  Tongue,  and  then  Translated  By  him  into 
English :  Containing  his  ten  Yeeres  Travell  throvgh  the  twelve 
Domjnions  of  Germany,  Bohmerland,  Sweitzerland,  Netherland,  Den- 
marke,  Poland,  Jtaly,  Turky,  France,  England,  Scotland,  and  Ireland. 
Diuided  into  III  Parts.  The  I.  Part  Containeth  a  lournall  through  all 
the  said  twelue  Dominions  .  .  .  The  II.  Part  Containeth  the  Rebellion 
of  Hugh,  Earle  of  Tyrone,  and  the  appeasing  thereof  .  .  .  The  III. 
Part  Containeth  a  Discourse  vpon  seuerall  Heads,  through  all  the  said 
seuerall  Dominions.  At  London  Printed  by  John  Beale,  dwelling  in 
Aldersgate  street.    161 7.    Folio.    R. 

f ,  8  leaves,  with  title,  which  occupies  2  leaves,  dedication  to  the  Earl  of  Pem- 
broke, &c.,  the  first  leaf  blank;  A — Dddd  in  sixes  ;  Eeee,  7  leaves. 

There  is  a  second  copy  in  the  library,  which  is  in  the  original  binding. 

MOSQUERA  DE  FIGUEROA,  Christoval.  Comentario  en 
breve  compendio  de  disciplina  militar,  en  que  se  escriue  la  Jornada  de 

las  islas  de  los  Azores En  Madrid,  P or  Luis  Sancliez :  Atto 

1 596.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  folios  I-184  ;  table,  2  leaves.  Between  folios 
71  and  72  is  a  folding  plate  :  "  Pintura  de  la  desembarcacion  y  assalto." 

MOSTO,  Gio.  Batt.  Canto  [Tenore,  Alto,  Basso  e  Quinto]  di 
Gio.  Battista  Mosto  Maestro  di  Capella  del  Dvomo  Di  Padoua :  II 
secondo  libro  de  Madrigali  a  Cinque  Voci,  nouamente  composto  & 
dato  in  luce.  In  Vcnetia  Prcsso  Giacomo  Vincenci,  &  Ricciardo  Ama- 
dino,  compagni.  MDLXXXIII.  5  parts  complete  in  i  vol.  4to.  BL.  M. 
A — P  in  fours,  including  titles  to  each  pajt. 


MOTE—MOTTLEY.  1003 

MOTE,  Humphrey.  The  Primrose  of  London,  With  her  vahant 
aduenture  on  the  Spanish  coast,  beeing  of  the  burthen  of  150.  Tunne. 
Declaring  the  maner  how  97.  Spanyards  came  aboord  the  same  ship, 
the  course  of  the  skirmish,  and  how  by  their  vahancie  they  discom- 
fited them.  Wherunto  is  added  tlie  copie  of  the  kinges  commission 
for  the  imbarment  of  all  English  Ships.  Truely  published  by  Hum- 
phrey Mote.  Imprinted  at  London  for  Thomas  Nelson.  IS8S-  4to. 
Black  letter. 

Four  leaves.    A  woodcut  on  title. 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection.    The  only  other  known  is  in  the  British  Museum. 

MOTHER'S  COUNSELL.  The  Mothers  Counsell  or,  Liue 
within  Compasse.  Being  the  last  Will  and  Testament  to  her  dearest 
Daughter.  Printed  at  London  for  John  Wright,  and  are  to  be  sold  at 
his  Shop  in  [Gilt^spnr  street  without  Newgate,  at  the  signe  of  t/ie  Bible. 
l63[i.]    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A— C  in  eights,  title  on  A  2.     In  verse  and  prose.    With  a  woodcut  on  the  title. 

The  only  other  copy  known  is  in  the  Bodleian,  and  that,  like  this,  is  slightly 
cut  in  the  outer  margin,  the  binder's  knife  taking  away  a  figure  from  the  date  and 
the  word  supplied  between  brackets.  The  work  is  a  collection  of  prose  and  metrical 
maxims  and  sentiments.     From  Mr.  Inglis's  library. 

MOTTEVILLE,  Mad.  DE.  Memoires  pour  servir  a  rhistoire 
d'Anne  d'Autriche  Epouse  de  Louis  Xni.  Amsterdam.  1750.  6  vols. 
Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

MOTTLEY,  John.  Joe  Miller's  Jests:  or,  the  Wits  Vade- 
Mecum.  Being  A  Collection  of  the  most  Brilliant  Jests  ;  the  Politest 
Repartees ;  the  most  Elegant  Bons  Mots,  and  most  pleasant  short 
Stories  in  the  English  Language.  First  carefully  collected  in  the 
Company,  and  many  of  them  transcribed  from  the  Mouth  of  the 
Facetious  Gentleman  whose  name  they  bear.  ....  London :  Printed 
and  Sold  by  T.  Read.    1739.    8vo. 

B — F  3  in  eights  and  the  title-page. 

First  edition.  For  an  account  of  the  real  compiler,  John  Mottley,  see  the  "  New 
London  Jest  Book,"  Introduction. 

Joe  Miller's  Jests  :   or,  the  Wits  Vade-Mecvm Most 

Humbly  Inscribed  To  those  Choice-spirits  of  the  Age,  Captain  Bodens, 

M".  Ale.xander  Pope,  M'.  Professor  Lacy,  M''.  Orator  Henley,  and 

Job  Baker,  the   Kettle- Drummer.     The   Second    Edition.     London : 

1739.    8vo. 

Pp.  70  and  the  title-page. 


Joe  Miller's  Jests  :   Or,  The  Wits  Vade-Mecum  ....  The 

Ninth  Edition  ....  London.    1747.    8vo.    Frontispiece. 


1 004  MO  UL  TON—M  UL  CA  S  TER. 

MOULTON,  Thomas.  This  is  the  Myrrour  or  Glasse  of  Helth 
necessary  and  nedefuU  for  euery  person  to  loke  in,  that  wil  kepe  their 
bodye  from  the  syckenesse  of  the  Pestilence,  and  it  sheweth  how  the 
pianettes  do  raygne  in  euery  houre  of  the  dayc  and  nyghte,  with  the 
natures  and  exposicios  of  the  xii.  sygnes,  deuyded  by  the  .xii.  Monethes 
of  the  yeare,  and  shewed  [j/V]  the  remedies  for  manydyuers  infirmities 
and  dyseases  that  hurteth  the  bodye  of  Manne.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted 
at  London  in  Foster  Lane  by  John  Waky.    [;/.«'.]    Sm.  8vo.   Black  letter. 

A— H  4  in  eights. 

This  edition  is  not  mentioned  by  Herbert. 

MOUNTFORT,  W.     Six  Plays  Written  by  W.  Mountfort 

To  which  is  prefix'd  some  Memoirs  of  the  Life  of  IVP.  Mountfort. 
London :  Printed  for  J.  Tonson.    1720.    2  vols.    Sm.  8vo. 

MOURNFUL  DITTY.  A  mournful!  Dittie  on  the  death  of  cer- 
taine  Judges  and  Justices  of  the  Peace,  and  diuers  other  Gentlemen, 
who  died  immediately  after  the  Assises  holden  at  Lincolne  last  past. 
To  the  tune  of  Fortune.  [Colophon.]  Iinprhited  at  London  by  John 
Wolfe,  for  William  Wright.     1590.    A  broadside.    Black  letter. 

Twenty-two  stanzas  of  four  lines,  enclosed  in  a  broad  ornamental  woodcut 
border,  and  with  a  woodcut  at  the  head  of  the  first  column. 

Reprinted  in  "Ancient  Ballads,"  &c.,  1867. 

MUCEDORUS.  A  Most  Pleasant  Comedie  of  Mucedorus  the 
Kings  Sonne  of  Valentia,  and  Amadine  the  Kings  Daughter  of  Aragon. 
With  the  merry  conceits  of  Mouse.  Amplified  with  new  additions  as 
it  was  Acted  before  the  Kings  Maiesty,  at  Whitehall  on  Shroue-Sun- 
day  night.  By  his  Highnesse  Seruants,  vsually  playing  at  the  Globe. 
Very  delectable,  and  ful  of  conceited  mirth.  At  London,  Printed  for 
John  Wright,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  at  the  signe  of  the  Bible 
zvithout  Neiv-gate.    16 18.    4to. 

A — F  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

Mr.  J.  P.  Collier,  in  a  letter  to  the  "Atheneeum,"  in  1875,  expresses  a  most 
decided  opinion  that  Shakespeare  contributed  one  scene  of  forty-four  lines  to  this 
play.     Other  critics  have  expressed  an  equally  decided  opinion  to  the  contrary. 

MUGGLETONIANS.  Divine  Songs  of  the  Muggletonian,  in 
grateful  praise  to  the  only  true  God,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Printed 
by  Subscription,  London.  1829.  8vo.  With  a  portrait  of  Lodozvicke 
Muggleton. 

Pp.  x.\iv.  -I-621.    The  original  edition,  not  published. 

MULCASTER,  Richard.  Positions  wherin  those  primitive  cir- 
cvmstanccs  be  examined,  which  are  necessarie  for  the  training  vp  of 
children,  cither  for  skill    in   their  booke,  or  health    in   their   bodie. 


MUL CASTER— MUNDA  V.  1005 

Written  by  Richard  Mvlcaster,  master  of  the  schoole  erected  in 
London  anno.  1561  in  the  parish  of  Sainct  Laurence  Powntneie  by 
the  worshipfull  companie  of  the  merchant  tailers  of  the  said  citie. 
Imprinted  at  London  by  Thomas  Vautrollier  for  Tliomas  C/iar[d]e. 
1581.    4to. 

Title,  I  leaf;  dedication  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  3  leaves  ;  "  Avther  ipse  ad  librum 
suuni,"  in  Latin  complete,  i  leaf ;  arguments,  3  leaves  ;  A — Pp  in  fours. 

This  work  was  licensed  conditionally  to  Thomas  Char[d]e,  under  the  hand  of 
the  Bishop  of  London,  6  March,  15S0-1  :  "  Prouyded  ahvaies  That  yf  this  Booke 
conteine  any  thinge  preiudiciall  or  hurtfull  to  the  booke  of  maister  Askham  that 
was  printed  by  master  Bate/  Called  '  the  Scolemayster '  That  then  this  Lycence 
shalbe  voyd." — Arber,  ii.,  178. 

MULCASTER,  Richard.  The  First  Part  of  the  Elementarie 
which  entreateth  chefehe  of  the  right  writing  of  our  English  tung,  set 
forth  by  Richard  Mvlcaster.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Thomas  Van- 
troidlier  dwelling  in  the  blak-friers  by  Liid-gate.    1582.    4to. 

Title,  I  leaf ;  dedication  to  Robert,  Earl  of  Leicester,  4  leaves  ;  "  Autoris  ipsius 
ad  librum  suum,"  in  Latin  verse,  and  the  contents,  2  leaves  ;  the  work,  A — KK  2  in 
fours. 

No  second  part  is  known  to  have  been  printed. 

MUMCHANCE,  Mihil.  Mihil  Mumchance,  His  Discouerie  of  the 
Art  of  Cheating  in  false  Dyce  play,  and  other  vnlawfull  games :  with 
a  Discourse  of  the  Figging  Craft :  And  also  of  diuers  new  deuises  of 
Cosenages  practised  commonly  at  Payers  and  Markets :  With  many 
deceitfull  practises  vsed  by  bad  and  lewd  Women.  Neuer  before 
Published.  The  names  of  false  Dyce.  i.  A  bale  of  bard  sincke 
Dewces.  2.  A  bale  of  flat  sincke  Dewces.  3.  A  bale  of  flat  sice  Aces. 
4.  A  bale  of  bard  sice  Aces.  5.  A  bale  of  bard  Cater  Treas.  6.  A 
bale  of  flat  Cater  Treas.  7.  A  bale  of  Fullans  of  the  best  making. 
8.  A  bale  of  light  Grauiers.  9.  A  bale  of  Langrets  contrary  to  the 
vantage.  10.  A  bale  of  Cordes  with  as  many  highmen  as  lowmen  for 
Passage.  1 1.  A  bale  of  Demies.  12.  A  bale  of  long  Dyce  for  euen  and 
odde.  13.  A  bale  of  Bristels.  14.  A  bale  of  direct  contraries.  Printed 
at  London  by  lohn  Danter :  and  are  to  bee  sold  by  William  lones 
dwelling  at  the  signe  of  the  Giinne,  neere  Holbiirne  Conduit.  1 597.  4to. 
Black  letter.    R.  M. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — E  i  in  fours. 

Attributed  without  ground  to  Robert  Greene.  The  copy  among  Malone's  books, 
the  only  other  known,  has  had  the  date  cut  off.     From  Mr.  Corser's  library. 

MUNDA Y,  Anthony.  The  Mirrour  of  Mutabilitie,  or  Principall 
part  of  the  Mirrour  for  Magistrates.  Describing  the  fall  of  diuers 
famous  Princes,  and  other  memorable  Personages.  Selected  out  of  the 
sacred  Scriptures  by  Antony  Munday,  and  dedicated  to  the  Right 


1006  MUNDA  Y. 

Honorable  the  Earle  of  Oxenford.  Houos  alit  Aries.  Imprinted  at 
London  by  John  Allde  and  are  to  be  solde  by  Richard  Ballard  at  Saint 
Magnus  Corner.    1579.    4to.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

C  4  leaves  ;  C*I,  4  leaves  ;  A— M  in  fours.  In  verse.  On  the  back  of  the  title 
are  the  arms  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford. 

In  the  dedication  the  author  refers  to  his  lost  translation  of  the  romance  of 
"  Galien  of  France,"  and  to  his  travels  abroad.  Between  Boulogne  and  Abbeville, 
Munday  and  his  companion  were  stripped  to  their  shirts,  and  nearly  murdered, 
which  much  surprised  our  author,  for,  says  he,  "  before  I  thought  that  eueiy  man 
beyond  the  seas  was  as  frank  as  an  Emperour,  and  that  a  man  might  liue  there  a 
Gentlemans  life,  and  doo  nothing  but  walke  at  his  pleasure." 

The  "  MiiTor  of  Mutability"  is  written  on  the  plan  of  the  "  Mirror  for  Magis- 
trates," but  all  the  themes,  as  the  title  states,  are  taken  from  Holy  Writ.  Munday 
introduces  each  narrative  by  a  prose  "  induction." 

This  was  the  author's  second  known  publication,  and  was  printed  by  the  typo- 
grapher to  whom  he  served  his  apprenticeship  to  a  vocation  which  he  seems  very 
soon  to  have  abandoned.  Not  more  than  five  perfect  copies  are  known  ;  the 
present  was  Herbert's  and  Hebcr's. 

MUNDAY,  Anthony.  An  aduertisement  and  defence  for  Trueth 
against  her  Backbiters,  and  specially  against  the  whispring  Fauourers 
and  Colourers  of  Campians  and  the  rest  of  his  confederate  treasons. 
1 58 1.    God  saue  the  Queene.    4to.    Black  letter. 

Four  leaves. 

"  The  only  other  copy  known  is  that  in  the  Lambeth  library.  It  is  believed  to 
have  been  suppressed  by  Archbishop  Grindal.  See  Appendix  to  Munda/s  John  a 
Kent,  Shak.  Soc,  1S52,  and  a  long  footnote  on  the  curiosity  of  this  piece  in  the 
introduction  to  that  work,  p.  xx.\viii." — MS.  Note  by  Mr.  Halli-wdl  Phillips. 

The  tract  is  reprinted  entire  in  the  volume  referred  to.  The  present  copy  was 
Herbert's,  and  has  his  autograph  on  the  title. 

A  Watch-woord  to  Englande.    To  beware  of  traytours  and 


tretcherous  practises,  which  haue  beene  the  ouerthrowe  of  many  famous 
kingdomes  and  common  weales.  Written  by  a  faithfull  affected  friend 
to  his  Country :  who  desireth  God  long  to  blesse  it  from  Traytours, 
and  their  secret  conspiracyes.  Scene  and  allowed  .  .  .  London  Printed 
for  Thomas  Hacket,  and  are  to  be  solde  at  his  shop  in  Lnmberd  streete, 
vnder  the  signe  of  the  Popes  head  1 584.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — N  3  in  fours,  besides  the  title  and  a  leaf  with  the  queen's  arms,  and  some 
verses  by  R.  W. 

Dedicated  to  Master  Robert  Pullison,  Lord  Mayor  of  London  elect.  From  the 
Bright  and  Corser  collections. 

The  English  Romayne  Lyfe.    Discouering  the  hues  of  the 


Englishmen  at  Roome  :  the  orders  of  the  English  Seminarie  :  the  dis- 
sention  betweene  the  Englishmen  and  the  Welshmen :  the  banishing 
of  the  Englishmen  out  of  Roome  :  the  Popes  sending  for  them  againe  : 
a  reporte  of  many  of  the  paltrie  Reliques  in  Roome :  their  Vautes 


MUNDA  V.  1007 

vnder  the  grounde  :  their  holy  Pilgrimages :  and  a  number  other 
matters,  worthy  to  be  read  and  regarded  of  euer>'  one.  There  vnto  is 
added  the  cruell  tiranny,  vsed  on  an  English  man  at  Roome,  his  Chris- 
tian suffering  and  notable  Martirdome  for  the  Gospell  of  lesus  Christe 
in  Anno  1581.  Written  by  A.  M  sometime  the  Popes  Scholler  in  the 
Seminarie  among  them.  Hoiios  alit  Artes.  Seene  and  allowed.  Im- 
printed at  London  by  John  Charlewoode  for  Nicholas  Ling:  dwelling  in 
Panics  CImrchyarde  at  the  signe  of  i/ie  Maremaide.  Anno.  1582.  4to. 
Black  letter.    R. 

A — L  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Edward  Bromley,  Knight.  In  that  epistle,  and  also  in  the 
notice  to  the  reader,  Munday  speaks  of  this  volume  as  a  promise  discharged,  and 
in  the  latter  place  he  seems  to  say  that  many  persons  disaftected  to  him  had 
doubted  whether  he  would  dare  to  publish  these  revelations.  A  large  folded  cut  in 
four  compartments,  illustrating  the  sufferings  of  Richard  Atkins,  the  person  alluded 
to  in  the  title-page,  precedes  the  narrative.  The  account  of  Atkins  occupies  the 
concluding  chapter. 

The  work  was  reprinted  in  1590.  In  the  British  Museum  is  a  small  tract 
printed  in  1581,  giving  a  separate  and  fuller  account  of  Atkins's  case. 

MUXDAY,  Anthony.  A  Banqvet  of  Daintie  Concejts.  Fur- 
nished with  verie  delicate  and  choyse  inuentions,  to  delight  their 
mindes,  who  take  pleasure  in  musique,  and  therewithall  to  sing  sweet 
Ditties,  either  to  the  Lute,  Bandora,  .Virginalles,  or  anie  other  Instru- 
ment. Published  at  the  desire  of  bothe  Honorable  and  Worshipful! 
Personages,  who  have  had  copies  of  diuers  of  the  Ditties  herein  con- 
tained. Written  by  A.  M.  Seruaunt  to  the  Oueenes  most  excellent 
maiestie.  Honos  alit  Artes.  At  Londoti  Printed  by  J.  C  for  Edivarde 
White,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  signe  of  the  Gunne,  at  the  little  North 
doore  of  Panics.    Anno.  1588.     4to.     Woodcuts.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

A — I  in  fours.     In  verse. 

The  only  copy  known.  It  has  belonged  successively  to  Mr.  Park  (Bib.  Ang.- 
Poet.),  Mr.  Rice,  and  Mr.  Geo.  Daniel.  The  work  was  licensed  to  Thomas  Hacket, 
6  July,  1584,  but  no  earlier  edition  than  1588  is  now  known.  It  is  very  fully 
described  in  the  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica. 

In  the  dedication  "  To  the  worshipfuU  and  his  especiall  good  friend,  Maister 
Richard  Topcliffe  Esquire,  A.  M.  commendeth  this  small  motion  of  his  vnfeigned 
good  will  and  affection,"  he  goes  on  to  say,  "  though  the  world  so  frowne  vpon  me, 
that  I  cannot  as  I  woulde  :  yet  that  poore  Talent  which  God  hath  lent  me  (if  it 
were  sufficient  for  so  many  courtesies)  shall  at  all  times  expresse,  that  I  am  loth  to 
be  vnthankfull.  I  therefore  desire  your  worshyppe  to  accept  of  this  slender  gift." 
This  is  followed  by  an  interesting  notice  to  the  reader.  At  the  end  occurs  this 
memorandum :  "  The  seconde  seruice  of  this  Banquet  (vppon  the  gentle  and  good 
receit  of  this  first)  I  will  verie  shortlie  pubhsh.  Wherein  is  manie  excellent  Ditties, 
and  such  as  I  doubt  not  but  thou  wilt  well  esteeme  of."  No  sequel,  however,  is 
known  to  have  appeared. 

The  Downfall  of  Robert,  Earl  of  Huntington,  afterward  called 

Robin  Hood  of  merrie  Sherwodde  :  with  his  loue  to  chaste  Matilda, 


,oo8  AT  UN  DA  Y. 

the  Lord  Fitzvvaters  daughter,  afterwardes  his  faire  Maide  Marian. 
Acted  by  the  Right  Honourable  the  Earle  of  Notingham,  Lord  high 
Admirall  of  Englande,  his  seruants.  Imprinted  at  London  for  William 
Leake,  1601.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — L  2  in  fours. 

MUNDAY,  Anthony.  The  Death  of  Robert  Earle  of  Hvnting- 
ton.  Otherwise  called  Robin  Hood  of  merrie  Sherwodde  :  with  the 
lamentable  Tragedie  of  chaste  matilda,  his  faire  maid  Marian,  poy- 
soned  at  Dunmowe  by  King  lohn.  Acted  by  the  Right  Honourable 
the  Earle  of  Notingham,  Lord  high  Admiral  of  England,  his  seruants. 
Iiiiprinted  at  London  for  William  Leake,  1601.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — M  2  in  fours. 

This  and  the  preceding  article  are  bound  together,  and  were,  perhaps,  originally 
so  published.     From  Mr.  Geo.  Daniel's  collection. 

Falshood  in  Friendship,  or  Vnions  Wizard  :  Or  Wolues  in 

Lambskins,  i.  Discouering  the  errors  in  vniust  leagues.  2.  That  no 
subiect  ought  to  arme  himselfe  against  his  king  for  what  pretence 
soeuer.  3.  An  Aduertisement  to  those  few  of  the  Nobilitie  which 
take  part  with  Infamie.  London  Printed  for  Nathaniell  Fosbroke,  1605. 
4to.    R.  M. 

B — T  in  fours,  and  the  title. 

From  Mr.  Corser's  library.  This  is  the  only  copy  known  of  a  reissue,  with  a 
new  title-page,  of  a  volume  originally  published  in  1592.  See  Herbert's  Ames, 
p.  1 102.  The  dedication  to  Mistress  Dorothy  Edmonds,  found  in  the  edition  of 
1592,  is  here  omitted.     Munday's  initials  are  at  the  end. 

A  Briefe  Chronicle,  of  the  Successe  of  Times,  from  the  Crea- 
tion of  the  World,  to  this  instant.  Containing,  the  Originall  &  liues  of 
our  ancient  Fore-Fathers,  before  and  after  the  Floud ;  As  also,  of  all 
the  Monarch,  Emperours,  Kinges,  Popes,  Kingdomes,  Commonweales, 
Estates  and  Gouernments,  in  most  Nations  of  this  Worlde  :  And  how 
in  alteration,  or  succession,  they  haue  continued  to  this  day.  Printed 
by  W.  laggard.  Printer  to  the  Honourable  Citty  of  London,  and  are  to  be 
sold  at  his  honse  in  Barbican.    161 1.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    R. 

A,  8  leaves ;  B,  4  leaves  ;  C — Ss  2  in  eights. 

Dedicated  (i)  "To  the  Right  Honovrable,  Sir  William  Craoon,  Knight,  Lord 
Maior  of  the  Cittie  of  London,  Sir  Henrie  Montagve,  Sariant  at  Law  to  his  Maiestie, 
and  Recorder  of  London  :...."  and  (2)  to  the  Merchant  Taylors'  Company ;  in 
the  latter  of  which  inscriptions  Munday  gives  an  account  of  the  origin  of  the  city, 
and  also  of  the  benefactions  of  Sir  Thomas  White,  founder  of  Merchant  Taylors' 
school. 

Metropolis  Coronata,  The  Trivmphs  of  Ancient  Drapery : 

Or,  Rich  Cloathing  of  England,  in  a  second  Yeeres  performance.  In 
Honour  of  the  aduancement  of  Sir  lohn  lolles,  Knight,  to  the  high 


MUNDAY—MUNSTER.  1009 

Office  of  Lord  Maior  of  London,  and  taking  his  Oath  for  the  same 
authoritie,  on  Monday,  being  the  30.  day  of  October,  161 5.  Performed 
in  heartie  affection  to  him,  and  at  the  bountiful!  charges  of  his  worthy 
Brethren  the  truely  Honourable  Society  of  Drapers,  the  first  that 
receiued  such  Dignitie  in  this  Citie.  Deuised,  and  written,  by  A.  M. 
Citizen,  and  Draper  of  London.  Printed  at  Loudon,  by  George  Purs- 
lowe.    1615.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — C  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

The  two  last  pieces  in  this  pageant  are:  (i)  "The  Speech  spoken  by  Earle 
Robert  de  la  Hude,  commonly  called  Robin  Hood,"  and  (2)  "  The  Song  of  Robin 
Hood  and  his  Huntes-men." 

MUNDAY,  Anthony.  Chrysanaleia  :  The  Golden  Fishing  :  Or, 
Honour  of  Fishmongers.  Applauding  the  aduancement  of  M'.  lohn 
Leman,  Alderman,  to  the  dignitie  of  Lord  Maior  of  London.  Taking 
his  Oath  in  the  same  authority  at  Westminster, -on  Monday,  being  the 
29.  day  of  October.  161 6.  Performed  in  hearty  loue  to  him,  and  at 
the  charges  of  his  worthy  Brethren,  the  ancient  and  right  Worshipfull 
Company  of  Fishmongers.  Deuised  and  written  by  A.  M.  Citizen  and 
Draper  of  London.  Printed  at  London  by  George  Piirslowe.  1616.  4to. 
A — C  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.     Dedicated  to  the  Fishmongers'  Company. 

MUNDUS  Muliebris :  Or  the  Ladies  Dressing-Room  Unlock'd 
and  her  Toilette  spread.  In  Burlesque.  Together  with  the  Fops  Dic- 
tionary, Compiled  for  the  Use  of  the  Fair  Sex.  London:  Printed  for 
R.  Bentley  in  Russel  Street  in  Covent  Garden.    1690.    4to. 

A — D  in  fours. 

MUNOZ,  J.  B.  Historia  del  Nuevo-Mundo  escribiala  D.  Juan 
Baut.  Mufioz  Tomo  L  En  Madrid  por  la  Viuda  de  Ibarra.  1793. 
Imp!.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  18  leaves ;  pp.  1-364.  A  portrait  of  Columbus  faces  the 
title,  and  a  map  of  America  engraved  by  T.  Lopez  is  at  the  end.  No  more  than 
this  volume  was  printed. 

MUNSTER,  Sebast.  Cosmographiae  universalis  Lib.  vi.  in  qui- 
bus,  iuxta  certioris  fidei  scriptorum  traditionem  describuntur,  Omniu 
habitabilis  orbis  partiu  situs  p  priaeq,  dotes.  Regionum  Topographicae 
effigies.  Terrffi  ingenia,  quibus  fit  ut  tam  differetes  &  uarias  specie  res, 
&  animatas  &  inanimatas,  ferat.  Animalium  peregrinorum  naturae  et 
picturae.  Nobiliorum  ciuitatum  icones  &  descriptiones.  Regnorum 
initia,  incrementa  &  translationes.  Omnium  gentiu  mores,  leges,  religio, 
res  gestae,  mutationes  :  Item  regum  &  principum  genealogiae.  Autore 
Sebast.  Munstero.  [Colophon.]  Basilcae  apvd  Henrichvm  Petri,  mense 
Martio  anno  salvtis  M.D.L.    Folio.     Woodcuts. 

First  edition  in  Latin.    Title  and  preface,  6  leaves  ;  index,  6  leaves.     Fourteen 

6C 


loio  MURE—MURNER. 

woodcut  maps  of  two  leaves  each,  numbered  1-14.  Pages  i-i  162,  and  the  last  leaf 
not  paged.  There  is  a  large  cut  of  Spires  between  pp.  474-5,  and  of  Worms  between 
480-481.  There  are  also  large  cuts  of  Vienna  and  Heidelberg,  but  these  count  in  the 
pagination. 

MURE,  CoNRADUS  DE.  Reptorium  vocabulorum  e[x]quisitorum 
oratorie  poes  et  historiarum  cum  fideli  narracoe  earum  rerum  que 
ambiguitatem  ex  huiusmodi  vocabulis  accipiut  per  quod  fere  omnes 
oculte  et  difficultates  et  subtilitates  in  studiis  humanitatis  facile  Juxta 
alphabet!  ordinein  inuenietur.  Editum  a  doctissimo  Ifarum  amatore 
Magistro  conrado  turicens  ecclesie  cantore  Et  opletus  anno  domini 
m°cclxxiii.  In  vigilia  assumpconis  beate  marie  virginis  Indictione 
prima  Incipit  feliciter. 

Viide  liber  venerit  presejis  si  forte  requiras 
Quid  ve  noni  refcrat  ferlege  quod  seqnitur 
Bertoldus  nitide  hue  impresserat  in  basilea. 


\s.  a?[    Folio.    R. 

One  hundred  and  forty-seven  leaves. 

This  volume  is  remarkable  as  the  earliest  printed  mythological  dictionary,  and 
also  as  the  only  example  of  Berthold  Rodt's  printing  which  has  his  name  appended 
to  it.  He  was  the  introducer  of  typography  into  Basle,  and  is  believed  to  be 
identical  with  "  Bertholdus  de  Hanau,"  who  was  one  of  Gutenburg's  workmen,  and 
gave  evidence  for  him  in  his  lawsuit  with  Fust  in  1455.     Hain,  11,642. 

MURNER,  Tho.  Logica  memoratiua.  Chartiludiu  logice,  sine 
totius  dialectice  memoria  :  &  nouus  Petri  hyspani  textus  emendatus  : 
Cum  iucundo  pictasmatis  exercitio.  Eruditi  viri.  f  Thome  Murner 
Argetini :  ordinis  minoi^ :  theologie  doctoris  eximij.  [Colophon.] 
....  Argetine :  industrius  vir  Joanes gruningerimpressit.  Annoacristi 
saluatoris  natiuitaie.  M.D.IX.  Ipsa  die  diui  Thome  Canttiarietisis. 
4to.     Woodcuts. 

A,  B,  D,  F,  H,  K,  M,  N  in  sixes,  the  last  leaf  blank  ;  C,  G,  and  L  in  eights; 
E  and  I  in  fours. 

The  author  proposes  to  teach  a  system  of  logic  by  means  of  playing  cards.  The 
woodcuts  include  a  series  of  fifty-two  cards. 

Ritus  et  celebratio  phase  iudeo'^,  cum  orationibus  eoit,  & 


benedictionibus  mense  ad  littera  interptatis,  cum  omi  obseruatione  vti 
soHti  sut  suu  pasca  extra  terra  pmissionis  sine  esu  agni  pascalis  cele- 
brare.  Per  egregiu  doctorem.  Thoma  murner  ex  hebreo  in  latinii 
traducta  eloquium.     [Sine  loco  aut  anno.'\    4to.     Woodcuts. 

Sixteen  leaves. 

Von  dem  grossen  Lutherischen  Narren  wie  in  doctor  Murner 


beschworen  hat,  &c.     [Colophon.]      Veraiitwiirtmtg  den   maclier  disz 
biichlins,  stot  zum  teil  in  der  vorred,  wie  sie   im  den  grossen   narren 


MUR  THER—MUSE.  loi  i 

zuspot  vjnb gefiirt  &c.  Aber  smider  verantzviirt  er,  das  sie  in  gezigcn, 
antreffende  ein  person,  das  sie  dan  in  vil  hiindert  biichlin  vff  in  -jsz  von 
lassen  goti,  on  ire  nainen,  dis  vermeint  er  ein  ietliclier  sclmldig  sei  sein 
eer  zu  rette.  Des  Juit  er  niir  audi  Z7i  gesagt,  das  dis  biichlin  niernans  sol 
scliniehen,  sunder  in  der  narrcnkapen  vsz  gon.  Vff  solclis  hab  ich 
JoJuinnes  Grienenger  das  angenumen,  so  ich  niich  anch  truckens  miiss 
erneren,  vnd  meitt  handel  ist,  von  mir  getruct  niernans  zu  lieb  noch  zu 
leid  vff  Freitag  nach  sant  Lnci  vnd  Otilien  tag.  In  dem  iar  tiach  der 
geburt  Christi  vnsers  lieben  Jierren.  Tausent  fiinff  hundert  zwei  vnd 
zwentzig.    4to.    Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

A — Z  and  a — f  in  fours. 

This  is  characterized  by  Panzer  as  one  of  the  rarest,  but  also  one  of  the  most 
violently  abusive  of  Murner's  treatises  against  Luther.  A  reply  to  it  will  be  found 
under  the  title  "  Novella." 

MURTHER  will  out,  Or,  A  True  and  Faithful  Relation  of  an 
Horrible  Murther  committed  Thirty  Three  Years  ago  by  an  unnatural 
Mother  upon  the  body  of  her  own  Child  about  a  Year  old,  and  was 
never  discovered  till  this  24"'  of  November,  1675,  by  her  own  selfe, 
upon  the  fears  of  an  approaching  Death ;  for  which  crime  she  was 
taken  from  her  Bed,  and  carried  in  a  coach  to  Prison,  where  she  remains 

very  Penitent Printed  for  C.  Passinger.    [1675.]    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

MUSiEUS.  Musjei  opusculum  de  Herone  &  Leandro,  quod  & 
in  latinam  linguam  ad  uerbum  tralatum  est.  [Over  this  title  the  same 
is  given  in  Greek.]  [Venetiis  ap.  Aldum,  circa  1494.]  4to.  Woodcuts. 
BL.  M. 

Editio  princeps.  The  first  book  in  which  Aldus  used  Greek  types.  From 
Renouard's  collection. 

Mussel  Opusculum  de  Herone  &  Leandro.     Orphei  argo- 

nautica.  Eiusdem  hymni.  Orpheus  de  lapidibus.  Vetietiis  in  cedibus 
Aldi  et  Andrece  Soceri  mcnse  Nouenibi'i  M.D.XVII.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Mvsaevs,  on  the  Loves  Of  Hero  and  Leander.  With  Annota- 
tions upon  the  Originall.  By  Sir  Robert  Stapylton  Knight,  Gentleman 
of  the  Privie  Chamber  to  the  Prince.  Musceum  ante  Omnes.  Virg. 
London,  Printed  by  F.  B.for  Humphrey  Moslcy,  ....  1647.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — F  in  twelves,  besides  the  engraved  frontispiece  by  W.  Marshall ;  B  4,  E  8, 
and  the  last  leaf  blank. 

The  general  dedication  is  directed  to  Henry,  Marquis  of  Dorchester;  but  there 
is  a  special  dedication  at  sig.  C  8  to  Lady  Stapylton.  The  first  edition  of  this  book, 
containing  only  the  translation  of  the  letters,  without  notes,  appeared  at  Oxford  in 
1645.     It  is  a  quarto  tract  of  twelve  leaves. 

MUSE  FOLASTRE.     La  Mvse  folastre.     Recherchee  des  plus 


IOI2  MUSES— MYRITIUS. 

beaux  esprits  de  ce  temps.     De  nouueau    reueue,  corrig^e   &  aug- 
mentde.    A  Rovan,  par  Clavde  Morel.    1600.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Seventy-six  leaves,  including  the  title. 

The  earliest  edition  with  which  Brunei  was  acquainted  was  that  of  Rouen,  1603, 
which  he  describes  as  "  3  torn,  in  i  vol.,"  but  he  gives  no  collation,  and  does  not 
say  of  how  many  leaves  it  consists.  He  also  mentions  that  an  edition  of  1600, 
printed  at  Tours,  was  sold  in  the  Bibliotheca  Stanleiana  for  ^5.  This  edition  ot 
Rouen,  1600,  appears  to  be  quite  unknown  to  bibliographers.  From  the  fact  of  it 
being  described  on  the  title  as  "de  nouveau  reveue,  corrigde  et  augmentde,"  it  might 
be  supposed  that  there  was  an  edition  printed  earlier  in  the  century,  but  the  preface  to 
the  reader  speaks  of  this  as  a  first  edition. 

MUSES.  The  Muses  Farewel  to  Popery  &  Slavery.  Or,  A  Col- 
lection of  Miscellany  Poems,  Satyrs,  Songs,  &c.  Made  by  the  Most 
Eminent  Wits  of  the  Nation,  as  the  Shams,  Intreagues,  and  Plots  of 
Priests  and  Jesuits  gave  occasion.  The  Second  Edition,  with  Large 
Additions,  most  of  them  never  before  Printed.  Sjiis  &  ipsa  Roma, 
viribus  riiit.  Hor.  London :  Printed  for  S.  Burgess,  and  are  to  be  sold 
by  the  Booksellers  of  Londoji  and  PVest/ninster,  1690.    8vo. 

A,  4  leaves ;  B — P  in  eights  ;  "  The  Supplement,"  with  a  new  title,  A — B  4  in 
eights. 

MUSOPHILUS.  A  Posie  for  Lovers  :  Or  The  Terrestrial  Venus 
Unmaskt.  In  Four  Poems,  Viz.  L  The  Tempest,  or  Enchanting  Lady. 
II.  The  Luscious  Pennance,  or  the  Fasting  Lady.  III.  The  Feign'd 
Innocence,  or  the  Jealous  and  Whiming  Lady.  IV.  To  an  old  Game- 
some Madam,  who  twittingly  askt  the  Authour,  when  he  design'd  to 

settle  in  the  World London,  Printed  for  Thomas  Speed,  at  the 

Sign  of  the   Three   Crowns   in   Cornhil,   near  the  Royal  Exchange. 
1694.    4to. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — D  in  fours. 

Dedicated  by  Musophilus  "To  the  Little  Crooked,  yet  Sweet  and  Lovely 
Rosania." 

MYNSHULL,  Geffrey.  Essayesand  Characters  of  a  Prison  and 
Prisoners.  Written  by  G.  M.  of  Grayes-Inne,  Gent.  With  some  new 
Additions.  Printed  at  London  by /[ohn]  0[kes]  for  Mather  Walbancke, 
and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  at  Grayes  lime  Gate.    1638.    4to. 

A— H  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.     A  woodcut  on  the  title. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  most  worthy  young  Gentlemen  (my  noble  Visitants)  of  the 
Honourable  Society  of  Grayes-lnne." 

This  tract  is  curious  for  the  cant  language  used  at  the  time  in  a  prison. 
Mynshull  was  a  person  of  good  family,  who  became  involved  in  difficulties,  and 
narrates,  like  Fennor  before  him  and  Bagwell  afterwards,  his  personal  experiences 
of  gaol  life. 

MYRITIUS,  Joannes.  Opvscvlvm  Geographicvm  rarvm,  totivs 
eius  negotii  rationcm  mira  industria  et   brevitate  complectens,  iam 


MYSTERY.  1013 

recens  ex  diversorum  Hbris  ac  chartis  summa  cura  ac  diligentia  col- 

lectum  et  publicatum Ingolstadii  ex   Officina   Typographica 

Wolfgangi  Ederi.     Anno  M.D.LXXXX.     Folio. 

A — S  in  fours.  A  woodcut  of  geographical  instruments  faces  page  4,  and  a 
folding  woodcut  map  is  between  pp.  60-61. 

MYSTERY.  Le  mi.stere  de  la  coception  :  natiuite :  mariage  :  et 
annonciation  de  la  benoiste  vierge  Marie.  Auec  la  natiuite  de  Jesu- 
christ  et  son  enfance.  Contenant  plusieurs  belles  matieres :  dont  les 
noms  sent  en  la  table  de  ce  present  liure.  xxii.  1 540.  [Below  this  is 
a  large  woodcut  of  the  nativity  in  the  centre  of  which  is  a  tablet  with 
the  inscription  :]  C  Puer  natus  est  nobis  Et  filius.  &c.  On  les  vend  a 
Paris  en  la  rue  neuftie  nostre  Dame  a  lenseigjie  de  lescii  de  France.  Par 
Alain  lotrian.    \s.  ^/.]    4to.    Black  letter. 

A,  8  leaves;  B — X  in  fours;  Y,  6  leaves. 

Le  mistere  de  la  conceptiS  Natiuite  Mariage  Et  annociation 

de  la  benoiste  vierge  marie.  Auec  la  natiuite  de  Jesucrist  et  son  enfance 
Cotenant  plusieurs  belles  matieres,  dont  les  noms  sont  en  la  table  de 
ce  present  liure  Imprime  nouuellement  a  paris.  xix.  c.  [Beneath  this 
title  a  large  woodcut  of  the  Offerings  of  the  Magi,  in  the  centre  a 
tablet  on  which  is  printed  "  Puer  nat^  est  nobj.    Et  fili®  "]    [Colophon.] 

Imprime  noiiiiellenient  a  Paris,  par  la  vef lie  feu  Jehan  treppe7-el 

Dcmoiirant  en  la  rue  neufue  nostre  dame.  A  lenseigne  de  lescn  de  France. 
{_s.  d.}    4to.    Black  letter. 

Brunet,  iii.,  1970. 

Sensuyt  le  mistere  de  la  passio  nostre  seignr  Jhesucrist  auec 

les  adicios  faictes  p  tres  eloquet  et  scietifiq  docteur  maistre  iehan 
michel  Leql  mistere  fut  ioue  a  anglers  moult  triumphantement  et 
dernierement  a  Paris,  xlviii.  [Beneath  this  title,  which  is  printed  in 
red  and  black,  is  a  large  woodcut  of  four  scenes  in  the  passion ;  in  the 
centre  is  a  tablet  in  which  is  printed  in  red,  "  Passio  domini  nostri  iesu 
christi,"  and  on  each  side  of  the  woodcut  runs  the  legend,  "  O  vos  oes 
q  trasitis  p  via  Attendite  Etvidete,  &c."]  [Colophon.]  .  .  .  .  Nomielle- 
met  impritnee  a  Paris  Par  la  veufne  feu  iehd  trepperel  et  Jehd  iehannot 
tprimeur  &  libraire  iure  en  luniuersite  de  paris.  demourdt  en  la  rue  neufue 
nre  dame  a  lenseigne  de  Lcscu  de  Frdce.    \s.  </.]    4to.    Black  letter. 

Concerning  the  variations  of  this  edition  see  Brunet,  iii.,  1973-4.  This  copy 
agrees  with  two  others  which  he  mentions  in  that  there  is  a  gap  in  the  pagination 
from  89  to  100,  making  therefore  254  leaves  to  the  volume,  though  the  last  leaf  but 
one  is  numbered  263. 

Sensuit  la  Resurrection  de  nostre  Seigneur  iesuchrist  par  per- 


sonnaiges  Coment  il  sapparut  a  ses  apostres  et  a  plusieurs  autres,  f 
c5met  il  mota  es  cieulx  le  iour  de  son  assencid  Nouuellemet  imprle  a 


IOI4  MYSTERY— MYTHOG  RAP  HI. 

pans.  [Under  this  title  a  woodcut  of  the  resurrection,  beneath  which  :] 
C  On  les  vend  a  Paris  en  la  rue  neufue  nostre  dame  A  lenseigne  de 
lescu  de  france.  [Colophon  on  the  reverse  of  folio  51  :]  C  Cy  finist  le 
viistere  de  la  Resurrection  de  nostre  seigneur  ihesucrist  par  personnages 
Nouiicllemetit  imprime  a  Paris  par  la  veufiie  feu  Jehd  trcpperel  de- 
mourant  en  la  rue  neufue  nostre  Dame  a  lenseigne  de  lescu  de  France. 
\s.  d.]    4to.    Black  letter. 

This  edition  agrees  with  that  described  by  Brunet,  iv.,  1 249,  in  the  number  of 
leaves,  but  the  title  has  several  literal  variations  from  that  which  he  gives,  and  the 
imprint  has  only  the  name  of  "  la  veufue  feu  Jeha  Trepperel,"  while  the  impression 
he  describes  has  also  the  name  of  "  Jehannot." 

This  is  bound  with  the  two  preceding  articles  in  one  volume,  in  old  blue  morocco. 
From  the  collection  of  Girardot  de  Pr^fond. 

MYSTERY.  Le  premier  volume  des  Catholicques  oeuures  et 
Actes  des  Apostres  redigez  en  escript  par  sainct  Luc  Euangeliste  et 
Hystoriographe,  depute  par  lesainctEsperit,  Icelluy  sainct  Lucescripuat 
a  Theophile,  Auecques  plusieurs  Hystoires  en  icelluy  inserez  des  gestes 

des  Cesars.  .  . . Le  Second  Volume  Du  Magnificque  Mystere  des 

Actes  des  Apostres  continuant  la  narration  de  leurs  faictz  et  gestes 
selon  lescripture  saincte,  auecques  plusieurs  histoires  en  icelluy  inserees 
des  gestes  des  Cesars.  Veu  et  corrige  bien  et  deuement  selon  la  vraye 
verite,  et  ainsi  que  le  mystere  est  ioue  a  Paris  ceste  presente  annee 

mil  cinq  cens  quarante  et  vng. Lapocalypse  Sainct  Jehan  zebedee, 

ou  sont  comprinses  les  visions  et  reuelations  que  icelluy  sainct  Jehan 
eut  en  lysle  de  Pathmos,  le  tout  ordonne  par  figures  conuenables  selon 
le  texte  de  la  saincte  escripture.  Ensemble  les  cruaultez  de  Domi- 
cien  Cesar.  Auec  priuilege.  M.D.xli.  [Colophon.]  Fin  du  mistcre  de 
Lapocalipse  sainct  Jehan  ejiangeliste  Nouiiellenient  redige  par  person- 
nages, atcec  les  miracles  fais  en  lisle  de  Pat/unos,  le  tout  historic  scion  les 
visions.  Et  fut  aclieue  ledit  liure  dimprimer  le.xxvii^  iour  de  May  Lan 
Mil  cinq  cens.  xli.  pour  Arnoul  &  Charles  angeliers  freres.  3  vols,  in  i. 
Folio.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Vol.  I.  Four  preliminary  leaves  ;  a — mm  in  sixes.  Vol.  2.  Title  and  "Balade,"  2 
leaves;  A — Xin sixes  (no  sig.  YorZ);  Aa — Hh  in  sixes;  li,  8  leaves,  the  last  bearing 
only  the  printer's  device.    Apocalypse.    AA— GG  in  sixes ;  HH,  4  leaves. 

MYTHOGRAPHI  LATINL  C.  Jul.  Hyginus.  F.  Planciades 
Fulgentius.  Lactantius  Placidus.  Albricus  Philosophus  ;  omnes  T. 
Munckerus  emendavit  et  commentariis  perpetuis  instruxit,  cum  notis 
variorum.    Amst.    1681.    8vo. 


N.,  IV.— NAB  BE  S.  1015 


N. 

N.,  W.  Barley-breake,  Or,  A  Warning  for  Wantons.  Written  by 
W.  N.  Gent.  Printed  at  London  by  Simon  Stafford,  dwelling  in  the 
Cloth-fayre,  neere  the  red  Lyon.    1 607.    4to. 

A — D  in  fours.     In  four-line  stanzas. 

Dedicated  by  W.  N.  "  To  the  vertvovs  and  chaste  Maiden  Mistresse  Eliz.  C. 
daughter  to  the  Worshipfull  Rob.  C.  Esquire."  This  poem  is  ascribed  sometimes 
to  Breton,  but  on  no  suiKcient  ground.  It  is  entered  in  the  Stationers'  Register, 
Arber,  iii.,  p.  153,  as  "  A  booke  called  Barley  great  or  a  Caveat  for  wantons." 

NABBES,  Thomas.  Microcosmus.  A  Morall  Maske,  Presented 
with  generall  liking  at  the  private  house  in  Salisbury  Court,  and  heere 
Set  down  according  to  the  intention  of  the  Authour  Thomas  Nabbes. 
Debent  et  prodcsse,  et  delectare  Poetce.  London,  Printed  by  Richard 
Otdton  for  Charles  Greene,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  white  Lyon  in  Pauls 
Church-yard.    1637.    4to- 

A — G  in  fours,  first  leaf  blank.    With  complimentary  verses  by  Richard  Brome. 

Covent  Garden  :  A  Pleasant  Comedie  :  Acted  in  the  Yeare, 

MDCXXXII.  By  the  Queenes  Majesties  Servants.  The  Author 
Thomas  Nabbes.  London,  Printed  by  Richard  Oulton,  for  Charles 
Greene  .  .  .  1638.    4to. 

A — L  i  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  Right  Worthy  of  His  Honovrs  S'  John  Suckling  Knight." 
Reference  is  made  to  the  recent  publication  of  Suckling's  "Aglaura,"  folio,  1638. 

Totenham  Covrt.    A  Pleasant  Comedie  :  Acted  in  the  Yeare 

MDCXXXIII.  At  the  private  House  in  Salisbury-Court.  The  Author 
Thomas  Nabbes.  At  London,  Printed  by  Richard  Ovlton  for  Charles 
Greene ;  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  Signe  of  tlie  White  Lyon,  in  Pavls 
Church-yard.    1638.    4to. 

A — K  in  fours,  first  leaf  blank.     Dedicated  to  William  Mills,  Esq. 

The  Springs  Glorie.   Vindicating  Love  by  temperance  against 


the  tenent,  Sine  Cerere  &  Baccho  friget  Venus.  Moralized  in  a  Maske. 
With  other  Poems,  Epigrams,  Elegies,  and  Epithalamiums  of  the 
Authors  Thomas  Nabbes.  London,  Printed  by  I.  D.for  Charles  Greene, 
and  are  to  be  sold  by  Nicolas  Fussell  at  the  signe  of  the  white  Lyon  i?i 
Pauls  Church-yard.    1638.    4to. 

A — G  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

On  sig.  F  i  occurs  :  "A  Presentation  Intended  for  the  Prince  his  Highnesse  on 
his  Birth-day  the  29  of  May,  1638.  annually  celebrated."  The  volume  is  dedicated 
to  WiUiam  Ball,  eldest  son  of  Peter  Ball.  There  are  complimentary  verses  by 
Robert  Chamberlaine. 


ioi6  NABBES— NANTES. 

NABBES,  Thomas.  The  Vnfortunate  Mother:  A  Tragedie. 
Never  acted  ;  but  set  downe  according  to  the  intention  of  the  Author 
Thomas  Nabbes.  London  :  Pi'inted  by  J.  O.for  Daniell  Frere,  and  are 
to  be  sold  at  tlie  Signe  of  the  Red  Bull  in  Little  Br  it  aim.    1640.    4to. 

A — H  in  fours. 

Dedicated,  by  Nabbes,  "To  the  Right  Worshipfvll  Richard  Braithwaite 
Esqvire,"  though  he  is,  he  says,  a  stranger  to  him. 

The  Bride,  A  Comedie.    Acted  in  the  yeere  1638.  at  the 


private  house  in  Drury-lane  by  their  Majesties  Servants.   The  Author, 

Thomas  Nabbes London.    Printed  by  R.  LI.  for  Laurence 

Blaikelocke  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  at  tlie  signe  of  the  Sngar-loafe 
next  Temple  bar  re  in  Fleet-street.    1640.    4to. 

A — I  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.     Dedicated  to  the  Inns  of  Court. 

NAILE,  Robert.  A  Relation  of  the  Royall,  Magnificent,  and 
sumptuous  Entertainement,  giuen  to  the  High,  and  Mighty  Princesse, 
Queene  Anne,  at  the  renowned  Citie  of  Bristoll,  by  the  Mayor,  Sheriff es, 
and  Aldermen  thereof;  in  the  Moneth  of  lune  last  past,  1613.  To- 
gether with.  The  Oration,  Gifts,  Triumphes,  Water-Combats,  and  other 
Showes  there  made.  London :  Printed  for  lohn  Budge,  and  are  to  be 
solde  at  the  great  Sojith-doore  of  Paules,  and  at  Britaines-Bursse. 
161 3.    4to. 

A — D  2  in  fours.    In  verse. 

Dedicated  to  Abell  Kitchin,  Mayor,  and  the  Sheriffs  of  Bristol.  There  are 
verses  "  To  the  Christian  Reader,"  by  the  author,  and  "  To  the  Author  and  his 
Booke,"  by  John  Payne,  three  stanzas  of  six  lines.  The  running  title  throughout 
is,  "  The  Queenes  Maiesties  Entertainment  at  Bristoll."  The  whole  is  written  in 
long  rhyming  lines. 

This  is  a  volume  of  the  greatest  rarity.    A  copy  is  in  the  Bodleian. 

NALSON,  John.  An  Imparlial  Collection  of  the  Great  Affairs 
of  State,  from  the  beginning  of  the  Scotch  Rebellion  in  the  year  1639. 

to  the  Murther  of  K.  Charles  I London,  1682-3.   2  vols.    Folio. 

Frontispiece. 

NANFAN,  Bridgis.  Essays  Divine  and  Moral.  By  Bridgis 
Nanfan  Esquire.  London,  Printed  for  William  Leach  at  the  Crown  in 
Cornhil,  n£ar  the  Stocks-Market.    1680.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — O  in  eights,  including  an  imprimatur. 

Dedicated  by  the  author  to  the  Bishop  of  St.  David's.  Two  title-pages  were 
printed  to  this  volume. 

NANTES,  Bernardo  de.  Katecismo  Indico  da  lingva  Kariris, 
acrescentado  de  varias  Praticas  doutrinaes,  &  moraes,  adaptadas  ao 
genio,  &  capacidade  dos  Indios  do  Brasil.  Lisboa,  Na  Officina  de 
Valentim  da  Costa  Deslandes.    1709.    Sm.  8vo. 


NAPIER- NASH.  1017 

Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves,  and  pp.  1-363. 

The  author  of  this  work  is  not  mentioned  by  Machado,  and  the  book  itself 
appears  to  be  unknown  to  Brunei  and  to  other  bibliographers.  It  is  not  in  Field's 
"  Indian  Bibliography." 

NAPIER,  John,  Baron  of  Merchistoun.  Rabdologije,  sev 
nvmerationis  per  virgulas  libridvo:  Cum  Appendice  de  expeditissimo 
multiplicationis  promptvario.  Quibus  accessit  &  Arithmetical  Localis 
liber  vnvs.  Authore  &  Inventore  loanne  Nepero  ....  Edinbvrgi,  Ex- 
cudebat  Andreas  Hart.    161 7.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  A — G  5  in  twelves.     Four  plates. 

A  Bloody  Almanack.    Foretelling  many  certaine  predictions 

which  shall  come  to  passe  the  present  yeare  1647.  With  a  calculation 
concerning  the  time  of  the  day  of  Judgment,  drawne  out  and  published 
by  that  famous  Astrologer,  the  Lord  Napier  of  Marcheston.  {London, 
1647.]    4to. 

Four  leaves.     Woodcut  on  title.     The  imprint  is  cut  off. 

NARES,  Robert.  A  Glossary  ;  Or,  Collection  of  Words,  Phrases, 
Names,  and  Allusions  to  Customs,  Proverbs,  &c.  which  have  been 
thought  to  require  illustration  in  the  works  of  English  Authors,  par- 
ticularly Shakespeare  and  his  Contemporaries.   London.   1822.   4to.   R. 

[NARRATIVE  of  the  Journey  of  an  Irish  Gentleman  through 
England  in  the  year  1752.]    4to. 

MS.  of  the  eighteenth  century  on  eighty-four  leaves. 

NARRATIVE  of  the  Journey  of  an  Irish  Gentleman  through 
England  in  the  Year  1752.  Edited  from  a  Contemporary  Manuscript. 
With  a  few  Illustrative  Notes.    London  .  .  .   1869.    8vo. 

Fifty  copies  privately  printed  from  the  MS.  described  above. 

NASH.  The  Jests  of  Beau  Nash.  London,  1763.  Sm.  8vo.  Por- 
trait.   R. 

Pp.  83-t-iv. 

NASH,  Thomas.  A  Countercufife  giuen  to  Martin  lunior :  by  the 
venturous,  hardie,  and  renowned  Pasquill  of  Englande,  Caualiero.  Not 
of  olde  Martins  making,  which  newlie  knighted  the  Saints  in  Heauen, 
with  rise  vppe  Sir  Peter  and  Sir  Paule ;  But  latelie  dubd  for  his 
seruice  at  home  in  the  defence  of  his  Countrey,  and  for  the  cleane 
breaking  of  his  staffe  vpon  Martins  face.  Printed  between  the  skye  and 
the  groundc,  zvythin  a  myle  of  an  Oake,  and  not  vianie  Fieldcs  off,  from 
the  vnpriniledged  Presse  of  tJie  Ass-ignes  of  Martin  Junior.  Anno  Dom. 
1589.    4to.    BR.  M. 

Four  leaves. 

From  the  collections  of  Ames,  Herbert,  and  Mr.  Maskell. 

6d 


ioi8  NASH. 

NASH,  Thomas.  The  Returne  of  the  renowned  Caualiero  Pasquill 
of  England,  from  the  other  side  the  Seas,  and  his  meeting  with  Mar- 
forius  at  London  vpon  the  Royall  Exchange.  Where  they  encounter 
with  a  little  houshold  talke  of  Martin  and  Martinisme,  discouering  the 
scabbe  that  is  bredde  in  England  :  and  conferring  together  about  the 
speedie  dispersing  of  the  Golden  Legende  of  the  liues  of  the  saints.  If 
mj''  breath  be  so  hote  that  I  burne  my  mouth,  suppose  I  was  Printed 
by  Pepper  Allie.    Anno  Dom.  1589.    4to. 

A — D  in  fours. 

From  the  collections  of  Dr.  Farmer  and  Mr.  Park. 

The  First  parte  of  Pasquils  Apologie.    Wherein  he  renders  a 

reason  to  his  friendes  of  his  long  silence  :  and  gallops  the  fielde  with 
the  Treatise  of  Reformation  lately  written  by  a  fugitiue,  lohn  Penrie. 
Printed  where  I  was,  and  where  I  will  bee  readie  by  the  helpe  of  God 
atid  my  Muse,  to  send  you  the  May-game  of  Martinisme  for  an  inter- 
medium betweene  tlie  first  and  seconde part  of  the  Apologie.    Anno  Dom. 

1590.  4to. 

A — E  2  in  fours,  first  and  last  leaf  blank. 

Pierce  Penilesse  His  Svpplication  to  the  Diuell :   Barbaria 

grandis  habere  nihil.  WVitten  by  Tho.  Nash,  Gent.  London,  Printed 
by  Abell  Ieffes,for  lohn  Busbie.    1592.    4to.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 

A — L  in  fours,  and  preliminaries,  3  leaves,  but  D  and  E  have  only  together  I 
leaf  marked  "  D  &  E." 

This  is  the  second  edition  of  1592,  but  the  first  genuine  impression.  Prefixed  is 
a  private  epistle  from  the  author  to  the  printer,  written  from  the  country,  where  he 
was  staying  in  consequence  of  the  plague ;  in  it  he  complains  of  the  former  spurious 
issue  with  its  "  long-tailed  "  title,  and  gives  us  to  understand  that  the  present  edition 
was  undertaken  to  forestall  a  reported  reprint  of  the  piracy,  with  a  fictitious  "  Se- 
cond Part,"  although  Nash  adds  that  he  might  hereafter  write  a  sequel  to  be 
called  "  the  retourne  of  the  Knight  of  the  Post  from  Hell,  with  the  Deuil's  answer 
to  the  supplication."  A  tract  with  this  very  title  was  printed  in  i6o6,  but  it  was  not 
from  Nash's  pen. 

Strange  Newes,  Of  the  intercepting  certaine  Letters,  and  a 

Conuoy  of  Verses,  as  they  were  going  Priuilie  to  victuall  the  Low 
Countries.  Viidaimpelliturvnda.  By  Tho.  Nashe  Gentleman.  Printed 
at  London  by  Lohn  Danter,  dwelling  in  Hosier-Lane  neere  Holburne  Con- 
dnit,  1 593.    4to.    G.  M. 

A — M  2  in  fours. 

"This  was  intended  as  a  confutation  of  Gab.  Harvey's  Four  Letters.  On 
sig.  G  is  a  curious  mention  of  Spenser  and  Gab.  Harvey,  and  a  reference  to  the 
celebrity  of  Ned  Allen.  There  are  also  notices  of  Stanyhurst,  R.  Greene,  &c.,  in 
the  volume.  Mr.  Heber  had  written  in  his  own  copy  that  he  only  knew  of  two 
others,  the  copy  at  Bridgwater  House,  and  Mr.  Chalmers's,  which  was  formerly  Dr. 
i' urmcr's."—  Nate  in  Chalmers's  Catalogue. 


NA  SH.  1019 

NASH,  Thomas.  ChristsTearesoverlerusalem.  Wherunto  is  an- 
nexed, a  comparatiue  admonition  to  London.  A  love  Mvsa.  By  Tho. 
Nashe.  At  London,  Printed  by  lames  Roberts,  and  are  to  be  solde  by 
Andreive  Wise,  at  his  slwp  in  Paides  Church-yard,  at  tJie  signe  of  tJie 
Angel.    Anno  1593.    4to. 

Title,  I  leaf  ;  dedication  to  the  Lady  Elizabeth  Carey,  wife  of  Sir  George  Carey, 
Knight  Marshal,  &c.,  and  to  the  Reader,  3  leaves  ;  A — Z  in  fours. 

First  edition.  In  the  present  copy  two  or  three  leaves  are  damaged  and  imper- 
fect. A  copy  is  in  the  British  ;\Iuseum.  As  to  the  difference  in  the  "  Address  to 
the  Reader"  between  this  and  the  issue  of  1594,  see  "  Bibl.  Heber.,"  part  4,  No. 
1590.  The  edition  of  the  book  published  in  1613  was  reprinted  from  this,  not  from 
the  next,  and  contains  the  apolog>-  to  Harvey,  afterwards  withdrawn. 

This  book  was  licensed  to  Alice  Charlwood  on  the  8th  September,  1593,  Arber, 
ii.,  300,  and  although  there  is  no  record  on  the  Stationers'  Register  of  the  trans- 
action, it  was  probably  transferred  by  her  to  Roberts.  On  May  31,  1594,  we  find, 
"  James  Robertes.  Entred  for  his  copies  by  order  of  Court  Certens  Copies  which 
were  John  Charlwoodes."  Nash's  "  Christs  Tears"  does  not,  however,  appear  in 
the  list. 


Christs  Teares  over  lervsalem.  Wherevnto  is  annexed,  a  com- 
paratiue admonition  to  London.  A  love  Mvsa.  By  Tho.  Nashe. 
London.  Printed  for  Andrczu  Wise,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in 
Pauls  CJiurch-yard,  at  tlie  signe  of  the  Angcll.    1594.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — Z  in  fours,  and  prefixes,  6  leaves. 

This  is  a  re-issue  of  the  edition  of  1593,  with  the  title,  dedication,  and  address  to 
the  reader  reprinted.  The  errata  given  in  1 593  does  not  occur  here,  but  the  mis- 
takes of  the  press  remain  uncorrected. 

Haue  with  you  to  Saffron-walden.     Or,   Gabriell   Harueys 


Hunt  is  vp.  Containing  a  full  Answere  to  the  eldest  sonne  of  the 
Haher-maker.  Or,  Nashe  his  Confutation  of  the  sinfull  Doctor.  The 
Mott  or  Posie,  instead  of  Omne  tulit  punctum  :  Pacis  fiducia  nunquam. 
As  much  to  say,  as  I  sayd  I  would  speake  with  him.  Printed  at 
London  by  lolin  Danter.    1596.    4to.    BL.  M. 

A — X  3  in  fours. 

On  F  4  is  a  caricature  woodcut  of  Harvey.  The  book  is  dedicated  by  Nash,  in 
a  highly  satirical  strain,  to  Richard  Lichfield,  Barber  at  Cambridge.  See  Collier's 
"Bibl  Cat.,"ii.,  15-18. 

Nashes  Lenten  Stufife,  Containing,  The  Description  and  first 

Procreation  and  Increase  of  the  towne  of  Great  Yarmouth  in  Norffolke  : 
With  a  new  Play  neuer  played  before,  of  the  praise  of  the  Red  Herring. 
Fitte  of  all  Clearkes  of  Noblemens  Kitchins  to  be  read  :  and  not  vn- 
necessary  by  all  Seruing  men  that  haue  short  boord-wages,  to  be 
remembred.  Famam  peto  per  vndas.  London  Printed  for  N.  L.  and 
C.  B.  and  are  to  be  sold  at  tJie  west  e7id  of  Paules.    1 599.    4to.    V.  M. 

A — L  2  in  fours. 

From  the  collections  of  Mr.  Utterson  and  Mr.  Gardner.     Dedicated  by  the 


1  o.?o  NA  SH—NEADE. 

author  "  To  his  worthie  good  patron,  Lustie  Humfrey,  according  as  the  townsmen 
doo  christen  him,  little  Numps  as  the  Nobilitie  and  Courtiers  do  name  him,  and 
Honest  Humfrey,  as  aU  his  friendes  and  acquaintance  esteeme  him  ;  King  of 
the  Tobacconists  hie  &-  vbique,  and  a  singular  Mecrenas  to  the  Pipe  and  the 
Tabour."  This  was  Humphrey  King,  author  of  a  Utile  volume  described  in  the 
present  catalogue  under  his  name. 

NASH,  Thomas.  A  Pleasant  Comedie,  called  Summers  last  will 
and  Testament.  Written  by  Thomas  Nash.  Imprinted  at  London  by 
Simon  Stafford,  for  Water  Burre.    1600.    4to.    O.  M. 

B— I  2  in  fours,  and  the  title-page,  but  C  has  only  2  leaves,  and  F  2-4  are  mis- 
printed D  2,  D  3,  D  4. 

NATALIS,  HiERONYMUS.  Evangelicae  Historiae  Imagines  Ex 
ordine  Euangeliorum,  quae  toto  anno  in  Missai  sacrificio  recitantur, 
In  ordinem  temporis  vita;  Christi  digesta;.  Auctore  Hieronymo  Natali 
Societatis  Jesv  Theologo.  Aninerpim  Anno  Dni  M.D.XCIII.  Svperio- 
rvvi  perm  issv.    Folio. 

Engraved  title  and  plates  i.-cliii. 

The  impressions  of  the  plates  are  most  brilliant.  It  is  evidently  one  of  the  sets 
issued  separately  before  the  letterpress  was  added.  From  Dawson  Turner's  col- 
lection. 

NAUNTON,  Sir  Robert.    Fragmenta  Regalia,  or  observations 

on  the  late  Queen  Elizabeth,  Her  Times  and  Favorits.    Written  by 

Sir  Robert  Naunton,  Master  of  the  Court  of  Wards.    Printed,  Anno 

Dom.  1 64 1.    4to. 

A — F  2  in  fours. 

NAVARRETE,  Dom.  Fern.  Tratados  historicos,  politicos, 
ethicos  y  religiosos  de  la  monarchia  de  China.  Descripcion  breve  de 
aqvel  Imperio  ;  y  exemplos  raros  de  Emperadores,  y  magistrados  del. 
Con  narracion  difvsa  de  varios  sucessos,  y  cosas  singvlares  de  otros 
reynos,  y  diferentes  navegaciones. .  .  .  En  Madrid :  en  la  imprenta  Real. 
. .  .  1676.    Folio. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  pp.  1-5 18  ;  table,  13  leaves. 

NEADE,  William.  The  Double-armed  Man,  By  the  New  In- 
uention :  Briefly  shewing  some  famous  Exploits  atchieucd  by  our 
Brittish  Bowmen  :  With  seuerall  Portraitures  proper  for  the  Pike  and 
Bow.  By  W.  N.  Archer.  Printed  for  I.  Grismand,  at  the  signe  of  tlie 
Gun  in  Patch  Alley.     1625.    4to.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

A — E  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  bearing  only  a  woodcut. 

Dedicated  to  Charles  I.  At  the  end  of  this  copy,  which  was  Mr.  Maidment's, 
occurs  a  broadside,  possibly  belonging  to  the  book,  without  any  date  or  imprint, 
entitled  :  "  Obiections  against  the  vse  of  the  Bow  with  the  Pike  :  And  the  Answers 
thereunto." 

Lowndes  states  that  the  author's  copy  of  an  undated  edition  of  this  work  is  in 


NEAL— NECESSARY.  1021 

the  Grenville  collection,  but  the  Grenville  copy  is  merely  the  present  edition  with 
the  line  of  imprint  cut  off.  Lowndes  also  quotes  an  impression  of  1628,  but  no 
such  edition  is  known. 

NEAL,  Daniel.  The  History  of  New-England  ....  The  second 
Edition.  With  many  Additions  by  the  Author.  London.  1747.  2  vols. 
8vo.    Map. 

NEBRISSENSIS,  .^LIUS  Antonius.  Aurea  exposito  hynoi;. 
vna  cu  textu.  ab  Antonii  nebrissen.  castigatione  fideliter  trascripta. 
[Colophon.]  Qiiicqnid  in  Jiymnoruni  caruisset pondcre  libra  : 

Antonij planu}  Candida  viusa  dedit. 

Transscripsit  coci  sic  sedida  cura  Gegorii :  [sic] 

A  primo  dices  amcta  venire  typo. 

Vcriferis  igitur  iatn  per  lege  carniina  scriptis 

Lector:  vt  a  veris  commoda  magna  f eras. 

Quingentos  sol  quicm  post  milk  pei-egerit  orbes  : 

At(f  dece :  vt  Christns  venit  ab  arce patris. 

Cnm  mensis  dederit  tibi  febrmis  ipe  calendas : 

Cesarea  impressum  percipe  lector  opus. 

4to.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

a — h  6  in  eights. 

NECESSARY  DOCTRINE.  A  Necessary  Doctrine  and  Ervdi- 
tion  for  any  Christen  man,  set  furthe  by  the  kynges  maiestie  of  Eng- 
lande  &c.  [Quotations  from  Psalms  xix-xx.]  [Colophon.]  Imprinted 
at  London  in  Fletestrete  by  TJiomas  BertJielet  printer  to  the  kynges  liygh- 
t!es,  t/ie  .  xxix  .  day  of  May,  t/ie  yere  of  our  Lorde.  M.D.XLIII.  Cvm 
priuilegio  ad  imprivienduni  solum.    4to.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

A — Z  in  fours  ;  a — d  in  fours  ;  e,  6  leaves. 

The  title  is  within  a  woodcut  border,  and  on  the  back  are  the  contents.  At  the 
end,  just  above  the  colophon,  occurs  this  note  :  "  This  boke  bounde  in  paper 
boardes  or  in  claspes  not  to  be  solde  aboue.  xvi.  d." 

A  Necessary  Doctrine  and  erudition  for  any  Christen  man, 

sette  forthe  by  the  kynges  maieste  of  England.  &c.  [Quotations  from 
Psalms  19  and  20.]  1543.  [Colophon.]  Imprynted  at  London  in 
Botidphe  lane  at  the  sygne  of  the  whyte  Beare  by  Jhon  Mayler.  Ad 
imprimenduin  solum.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts.    Black  letter. 

A — T  4  in  eights. 

In  Mr.  Maitland's  catalogue  of  the  early  books  at  Lambeth,  8vo,  1843,  pp. 
379-85,  there  is  a  very  elaborate  account  of  this  book  and  its  editions  ;  Mr.  Maitland 
concludes  by  observing  :  "The  edition  F  is  printed  by  John  Mayler,  and  is  wholly 
different  from  any  of  the  preceding,  both  in  type  and  from  its  containing  a  great 
number  of  woodcuts." 

A  note  as  to  the  price,  similar  to  that  in  Berthelet's  edition  described  above, 
occurs  just  before  the  colophon.  The  only  difference  is  that  the  price  is  "  xii''." 
instead  of  "  .xvi"!." 


1022  NECESSARY— NELSON. 

[NECESSARY  DOCTRINE.]  Pia  etCatholicaChristiani  Hominis 
Tnstitutio.  Londini.  Apiid  Thomam  Berthdctvm.  Anno.  M.D.XLIIII. 
[Colophon.]  Londini  in  officina  TJwince  BcrtJiclcti  regij inipressoris  typis 
exaisum.   Anno.  M.D.XLIIII.  duodeuigesimo  die  mcnsis  Februarij.   4to. 

A — Y  in  fours. 

The  title  is  within  the  same  woodcut  border  as  that  of  the  "  Necessary  Doctrine 
and  erudition  for  any  Christian  man,"  of  which  this  work  is  a  translation.  The 
preface  addressed  by  the  king  "  vnto  all  his  faithful  and  louyng  subiectes "  is 
omitted,  and  a  "  Praefatio  ad  pium  lectorem  "  is  substituted. 

NECK,  Jacob  Cornelis.  Het  tweede  Boeck,  Journael  oft  Dagh- 
register,  inhoudende  een  warachtich  verhael  ende  Historische  ver- 
tellinghe  vande  reyse,  gedaen  door  de  acht  schepen  van  Amstelre- 
damme,  gheseylt  inden  Maent  Martij  1 598.  onder  't  beleydt  vanden 
Admirael  lacob  Cornelisz.  Neck,  ende  Wybrandt  van  Warwijck  als 

Vice-Admirael Ghedruckt  tot  Avis tehrdam  by  Cornelis  Claesz. 

opt  Water  int  Schrijf-boeck.    Anno  1601.    Oblong  4to.    Plates. 

It  will  be  seen  that  this  imprint  differs  slightly  from  that  given  by  MuUer,  p.  138. 
That  of  the  appendix  accords  exactly  with  his  description. 

There  is  also  in  the  library  a  copy  of  this  book  with  the  following  imprint : 
"  Men  vintse  te  coop  by  Barent  Langhenes,  Boeckvercooper  tot  Middelburch.  1 60 1." 

Het   tweede   Boeck,  Journael  oft  Dagh-register 

^t  Amstelredain  by  Cornelis  Claesz 1608.    Oblong  4to.    Plates. 

An  exact  reprint  of  the  edition  of  1601. 

NEF  DE  SANTE.  Sensuit  la  nef  d'  sate  Auec  le  gouuernail  du 
corps  humal :  &  la  codanacio  des  bacquetz  A  la  louege  de  diepte 
&  sobriete  Et  le  traicte  des  passios  de  lame.  Imprimc  nouiiclleniet  a 
Paris  en  la  rue  neufne  nostre  Dame  a  lenseigne  de  sainct  Jehd  baptiste. 
[par  Jclian  Janot.  s.  d.]    4to.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts.    Y.  M. 

A,  C,  F,  and  I  in  eights  ;  B,  D,  E,  G,  H,  and  K — R  in  fours  ;  S,  6  leaves. 

NEGRI,  Cesare.    Le  gratie  d'Amore  di  Cesare  Negri  Milanese, 
detto  il  Trombone,  Professore  di  ballare,  opera  nova,  et  vaghissima, 
divisa  in  tre  trattati.    In  Milano,  per  Vher.  del  quon.   Pacifico  Pontio,  &r 
Gio.  Battista  Piceaglia  compagni.    1602.    Folio.    Plates.    R.  M. 
Title,  prehminaries,  and  portrait,  4 leaves;  pp.  1-296;  Tavola,  2  leaves. 

NELSON,  John.  The  History,  Topography  and  Antiquities  of 
the  Parish  of  St.  Mary  Islington,  in  the  County  of  Middlesex.  In- 
cluding Biographical  sketches  of  the  most  eminent  and  remarkable 
persons  who  have  been  born,  or  have  resided  there.  Illustrated  by 
seventeen  engravings.  London.  iSii.  4to.  Enlarged  into  5  thick 
volumes.    R.  M. 


NELSON— NERO.  1023 

This  extensively  illustrated  copy  was  brought  together  and  arranged  by  Mr. 
Upcott  for  Mr.  Percival,  the  banker.  It  contains  more  than  300  water-colour 
drawings  of  places  of  interest  in  the  parish  of  Islington  and  the  immediate  neigh- 
bourhood, 350  engraved  illustrations,  and  200  engraved  portraits. 

There  are  also  appended  to  the  work  four  quarto  volumes  containing  literary 
matter  illustrative  of  the  parish,  consisting  of  extracts  from  m.agazines  and  news- 
papers, and  numerous  fugitive  pieces,  all  concerning  the  parish  of  Islington  and  its 
inhabitants  from  1726  to  1839. 

NELSON,  John.  The  History,  Topography,  and  Antiquities  of 
the  Parish  of  St.  Mar}%  IsUngton  ....  London  ....  1811.  4to.  En- 
larged into  2  vols.    BL.  M. 

This  copy  belonged  to  Mr.  George  Daniel,  and  is  copiously  illustrated  with 
additional  plates  and  other  embellishments,  including  portraits,  broadsides,  play- 
bills, autographs,  &c. 

NELSON,  Thomas.  A  Short  Discourse :  Expressing  the  sub- 
staunce  of  all  the  late  pretended  Treasons  against  the  Queenes  Maiestie, 
and  Estates  of  this  Realme,  by  sondry  Traytors  :  who  were  executed 
for  the  same  on  the  20.  and  21.  daies  of  September  last  past.  1586. 
Whereunto  is  adioyned  a  Godly  Prayer  for  the  safetie  of  her  High- 
nesse  person,  her  honorable  Counsaile,  and  all  other  her  obedient 
Subiects.  Seene  and  Alowed.  Imprinted  at  London  by  George  Robin- 
son for  Edivard  White,  and  are  to  be  solde  at  his  Shop  at  tJie  signe  of 
Hie  Gun.    [1586.]    4to.    Black  letter. 

Four  leaves.     In  verse. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Owen  Hopton.    From  the  Bright  and  Corser  collections. 

NEMESIUS.  The  Natvre  of  Man.  A  learned  and  usefull  Tract, 
written  in  Greek  by  Nemesius,  surnamed  the  Philosopher,  sometime 
Bishop  of  a  City  in  Phoenicia,  and  one  of  the  most  ancient  Fathers  of 
the  Church.  Englished,  And  divided,  into  Sections,  with  briefs  of  their 
principall  Contents  :  By  Geo  :  Wither.  London  :  Printed  by  AL  F.  for 
LIcnry  Taunton,  in  St.  Dunstans  Churchyard  in  Fleetstreet.  1636. 
Sm.  8vo. 

a,  3  leaves,  title  on  a  2  ;  aa,  6  leaves  ;  A — Ff  6  in  twelves. 

Dedicated  "To  His  learned  and  much  Honoured  Friend,  John  Selden  Esquire," 
"  From  my  Cottage,  under  the  Beacon  hiU  neere  Farnham,  May  23,  1636." 

A  gift  from  Dr.  Andrew  Clark. 

NERI.    Vita  di  S.  Fillippo  Neri  Fiorentino.    Fondatore  della  con- 
gregatione  dell'  Oratorio  di  Roma.   Romce.    [Circd  1600.]  Folio.  BL.  M. 
Engraved  title  and  forty-four  plates  by  J.  Stella  and  others. 

NERO.  The  Tragedy  of  Nero,  Newly  Written.  Imprinted  at 
London  by  Augustine  Matlieives,  and  lohn  Norton,  for  Tlionias  lones, 
and  are  to  bee  sold  at  tlie  blacke  Rauen  in  the  Strand.    1624.    410. 


1024  NESSON—NEUF. 

A— I  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

This  drama  is  usually  ascribed  to  Massinger ;  but  there  is  no  proof  of  his  author- 
ship, the  only  clue  being  that  it  is  frequently  found  bound  up  with  his  acknowledged 
plays. 

NESSON,  Pierre  de.  Vigilles  des  mortz  en  francoys.  [On  a  ii.] 
Sensuiuent  les  neuf  lessons  des  mortz  traslatees  de  latin  en  fracoys 
par  maistre  pierre  de  nesson  dont  dieu  ait  lame.  [Beneath  this  title  is 
a  woodcut  of  "Job  et  sa  femme,"  which  is  to  repeated  on  the  reverse.] 
[At  the  end]  Cy  fineray  ma  petite  euure 

Qui  mon  ignorance  desqueuure 
En  ccste  neufiesme  lesson 
Et  tous  les  lisans  ie  requier 
Quil  leur  plaise  de  corriger 
Leur  humble  disciple  nesson. 
[Sans  lieu  ni  date?\    4to.    Black  letter. 
a — e  in  eights  and  si.xes  alternately. 

The  only  other  copy  known  of  this  piece  was  purchased  at  the  Bergeret  sale  in 
Paris  in  1858  for  1,400  fr.  by  M.  Double.  At  the  sale  of  his  library  a  few  years 
later  it  produced  1,860  fr. 

The  present  copy  wants  sig.  a  vii  and  a  portion  of  sig.  a  viii. 

Sensuiuent  les  quatre  euangilles  en  francoys.    Et  premiere- 

ment  leuangille  de  monseigneur  saint  iehan.    \Sans  lieu  ni  date.']    4to. 
Black  letter. 

Sig.  a  consists  of  8  leaves.  The  title  as  above  is  on  sig.  a  i,  below  this  title  is  a 
woodcut  of  St.  John  in  Patmos  ;  then  follow  6  leaves  containing  a  calendar ;  on 
the  second  of  these  is  sig  A  ;  after  the  calendar  is  again  sig.  a,  with  the  heading, 
"Cy  commencent  les  heures  de  nostre  dame  en  francoys.  Et  premierement  a 
matines."  Below  this  title  is  a  cut  of  the  Annunciation,  beneath  which  begins  the 
text.  The  signatures  extend  to  f  in  eights,  and  on  f  viii  we  find,  "  Cy  finissent  les 
heures  de  nostre  dame  en  francoys.  Graces  a  dieu."  "  Cy  apres  sensuyvent  les 
heures  de  la  passion  de  nostre  saulueur  ihucrist  moult  deuotes."  Then  follow  4  leaves 
with  sig.  A  ending  on  the  verso  of  the  fourth.  Except  the  four  first  leaves  and  the 
calendar  the  whole  is  in  verse. 

Cy  commencent  les  sept  pseaulmes  penitenciales  en  francoys. 

[Sans  lien  ni  date.]    4to.    Black  letter. 

a,  8  leaves  ;  b  and  c,  6  leaves  each. 

In  verse.  The  title  as  above  is  in  two  lines  over  a  woodcut  of  David  on  his 
knees,  beneath  which  are  four  lines  of  text.  The  edition  is  quite  different  to  that 
described  by  Brunet  under  "  Sept  Psaumes  "  as  printed  by  Jean  Cres  at  Lantenac, 
though  the  contents  appear  to  be  identical. 

This  book  and  the  preceding  are  bound  up  with  the  "'  Vigilles  des  Mortz  "  of  Pierre 
Nesson  described  above.  Both  works  appear  to  be  entirely  undescribed.  The 
types  with  which  they  are  printed  are  very  similar  to,  but  not  identical  with,  those 
employed  in  Nesson's  "  Vigilles  des  Mortz." 

NEUF  PREUX.  Les  Neuf  preux.  Nouuellement  imprime  a 
Paris.     [Colophon.]    Cy  fine  le  liure  intitule  le  trinviplie  des  neuf  preux, 


NEUFFER—NEW  CUSTOM.  1025 

oiiqttel  sont  contains  tons  Ics  faits  &  prouesses  jh  out  aclieiiez  dia-ant 
leicrs  vies,  aiiec  Ihystoire  d'  Bertran  de  guesclin.  Imprime  a  Paris  par 
Michel  le  tioir.  ....  Et  fiit  acheiie  le  troiziesme  iour  dc  decenibre.  Lan 
mil  cinq  cens  is"  sept.    Folio.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts.    GR.  M. 

A,  8  leaves  ;  B — Y  in  sixes  (no  sig.  Z);  AA^KK  in  sixes,  except  II,  which  has 
only  4  leaves.     The  last  leaf  bears  only  the  printer's  device. 

NEUFFER,  F.  M.  Dissertatio  de  modo  probabiliori  quo  prims 
in  Americam  Septentrionalem  immigrationes  sunt  facta;.  Tiibingcs. 
\s.  a?[    4to. 

Title  and  A — C  in  fours. 

NEUMAYR,  J.  W.  Des  Johann  Durchlauchtigten  Hochgebornen 
Fiirsten  vnd  Herrn,  Herrn  Ernsten  des  Jungern,  Hertzogen  zu  Sachsen, 

Reise  In  Franckreich,  Engelland  vnd  Niederland Leipzig, 

bey  Henning  Grossen  dem  Jungern.    Im  Jalir.  1620. Reise  durch 

Welschland  vnd  Hispanien Genommen   aus    Herrn  Johann 

Wilhelms  Neumair  von  Ramszla,  daselbsten,  &c.    Itinerario  Europaeo. 

Leipzig,  In  verlcgung  Henning  Grossen  des  jiingern  Erben.   Im 

Jahr:  M.DC.XXIL    4to.    R. 

Part  I  contains  portrait,  title,  and  preface,  4  leaves,  and  pp.  1-304  ;  a  folding 
plate  at  p.  i.  Part  2  :  title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  pp.  1-418;  errata,  i  leaf; 
2  folding  plates  at  p.  i. 

NEW.  A  New  and  Merrie  Prognostication :  Being  a  metrical 
Satire  ....  Now  first  reprinted  from  the  very  Rare  edition  of  1623. 
Edited  by  J.  O.  Halliwell.    London  .  .  .   i860.    8vo. 

Only  thirty  copies  preserved.  Certain  passages  are  suppressed  and  the  wood- 
cuts omitted. 

NEW  CUSTOM.  A  new  Enterlude  No  lesse  wittie  :  then  pleasant, 
entituled  new  Custome,  deuised  of  late,  and  for  diuerse  causes  nowe 
set  forthe,  neuer  before  this  tyme  Imprinted.  1573.  The  players 
names  in  this  Enterlude  bee  these  [here  follow  the  names.]  Fower 
may  Play  this  Enterlude.  [here  follows  the  distribution  of  the  parts.] 
[Colophon.]  Lnprinted  at  London  in  Fleetestreete  by  William  How  Jor 
Abraham  Vealc,  divelling  in  P aides  churche  yarde  at  the  signe  of  the 
Lambe.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A — D  in  fours. 

A  drama  in  rhyming  verse.  It  was  written  some  time  before  it  was  printed,  in 
advocacy  of  the  principles  of  the  reformed  religion.  In  the  third  scene  of  the  second 
act,  and  at  the  conclusion,  places  are  marked  where  one  of  the  actors  should  intro- 
duce a  song,  which  is  not  in  the  printed  text. 

The  present  copy  is  bound  up  in  a  volume,  in  old  red  morocco,  with  the  crown 
and  cypher  of  Charles  II.  stamped  down  the  back,  with  eight  other  dramatic  or 
poetical  pieces,  including  Lyly's  "  Loves  Metamorphosis,"  Jonson's  "  Hymensei," 
"Jack  Drum's  Entertainment,"  and  Lenton's  "  Inns  of  Court  .'Vnagrammatist." 

From  the  Charlemont  library. 

6E 


I026  NEW  ENGLAND. 

NEW  ENGLAND.  A  briefe  Relation  of  the  Discovery  and 
Plantation  of  New  England  :  and  of  svndry  accidents  therein  occvrring, 
from  the  yeere  of  our  Lord  M .  DC .  Vll.  to  this  present  M  .  DC .  XXII. 
Together  with  the  state  thereof  as  now  it  standeth  ;  the  generall 
forme  of  gouernement  intended  ;  and  the  diuision  of  the  whole  Terri- 
torie  into  Counties,  Baronries,  &c.  Loudon,  Printed  by  John  Haviland, 
and  are  to  be  sold  by  William  Bladen,  1622.    4to. 

A— E  3  in  fours.     Dedicated  to  the  Prince  of  Wales. 

An  Abstract  of  the  Lawes  of  New  England,  As  they  are 

now  established.  London,  Pnnted  for  F.  Conies  aitd  W.  Ley  at  Paules 
Cltain.    1 64 1.    4to.    Tlie  edges  nncut. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

New  Englands  First  Fruits  ;  in  respect,  First  of  the  Con- 
version of  some,  Conviction  of  divers,  Preparation  of  sundry,  of  the 
Indians.  2.  Of  the  progresse  of  Learning,  in  the  Colledge  at  Cambridge 
in  Massacusets  Bay.  With  Divers  other  speciall  Matters  concerning 
that  Countrey.  Published  by  the  instant  request  of  sundry  Friends, 
who  desire  to  be  satisfied  in  these  points  by  many  New-England  Men 
who  are  here  present,  and  were  eye  or  eare-witnesses  of  the  same. 
[Quotations.]    London,  Printed  by  R.  O.  and  G.  D.for  Henry  Overton, 

....  1643.    4to. 

A — D  2  in  fours. 

The  Day-Breaking,  if  not  The  Sun-Rising  of  the  Gospell 

With  the  Indians  in  New-England.  [Quotations.]  London,  Printed  by 
Rich.  Cotes  for  Fulk  Clifton,  and  are  to  bee  sold  at  his  slwp  under  Saint 
Margarets  Church  on  New-fish-street  Hill,  164J.    4to. 

A — U  2  in  fours. 

Good  news  from  New-England :  With  an  exact  Relation  of 

the  first  planting  that  Countrey :  A  description  of  the  profits  accruing 
by  the  Worke.  Together  with  a  briefe,  but  true  discovery  of  their 
Order  both  in  Church  and  Common-wealth,  and  maintenance  allowed 
the  painfull  Labourers  in  that  Vineyard  of  the  Lord.  With  the  names 
of  the  severall  Towns,  and  who  be  Preachers  to  them.  London  ;  Printed 
by  Matthew  Simmons.    1648.    4to.    G.  M. 

A— D  in  fours,  and  the  title.    Chiefly  in  verse. 

On  the  last  page  is  mentioned  the  death  of  Thomas  Hooker.  In  the  list  of 
preachers  occurs  Hugh  Peters  for  Salem,  but  he  is  mentioned  as  being  at  that  time 
in  England. 

The  Light  appearing  more  and  more  towards  the  perfect 


Day.    Or,  A  farther  Discovery  of  the  present  state  of  the  Indians  in 
New-England,  Concerning  the  Progresse  of  the  Gospel  amongst  them. 


NEW  ENGLAND— NEW.  1027 

Manifested  by  Letters  from  such  as  preacht  to  them  there.  Published 
by  Henry  Whitfeld,  late  Pastor  to  the  Church  of  Christ  at  Gilford  in 
New-England,  who  came  late  thence  ....  Loudon,  Printed  by  T.  R. 
&  E.  M.for  John  Bartlet  .  .  .  165 1.    4to. 

A — G  in  fours,  G  4  blank,  and  the  first  leaf  occupied  by  an  address  subscribed 
"Joseph  Car>l." 

NEW  ENGLAND.  A  History  of  New-England.  From  the  Eng- 
lish planting  in  the  Yeere  1628.  untill  the  Yeere  1652.  Declaring  the 
form  of  their  Government,  Civill,  Military,  and  Ecclesiastique.  Their 
Wars  with  the  Indians,  their  Troubles  with  the  Gortonists,  and  other 
Heretiques.  Their  manner  of  gathering  of  Churches,  the  commodities 
of  the  Country,  and  description  of  the  principall  Towns  and  Havens, 
with  the  great  encouragements  to  increase  Trade  betwixt  them  and  Old 
England.  With  the  names  of  all  their  Governours,  Magistrates,  and 
eminent  Ministers.  [Quotation  from  the  Psalms.]  London,  Printed  for 
Nath :  Brooke  at  the  Angel  in  Corn-hill.    1654.    4to.' 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — Hh  in  fours,  the  last  two  leaves  occupied  by  advertisements. 

In  prose  and  verse.  The  headline  or  running-title  throughout  is  :  "  Wonder- 
working Providence  of  Sions  Saviour  in  New  England." 

This  work  is  ascribed  by  Lowndes  to  Thomas  Hooker,  who  signs  the  address 
to  the  reader,  but  he  is  mentioned  in  the  work  in  such  terms  as  make  it  evident 
that  he  was  no  more  than  the  editor. 

New-England  a  Degenerate  Plant :  who  having  forgot  their 

former  Sufferings,  and  lost  their  ancient  tenderness,  are  now  become 
famous  among  the  Nations  in  bringing  forth  the  fruits  of  cruelty, 
wherein  they  have  far  outstript  their  Persecutors  the  Bishops,  as  by 
these  their  ensuing  Laws  you  may  plainly  see.  Published  for  the 
information  of  all  sober  People,  who  desire  to  know  how  the  state  of 
New-England  now  stands,  and  upon  what  foundation  the  New-England 
Churches  are  built  ....  Whereunto  is  annexed  a  Copy  of  a  Letter 
which  came  from  one  who  hath  been  a  Magistrate  among  them  to  a 
friend  of  his  in  London  ....  London,  Printed  in  the  Year  1659. 
4to.    Tlie  edges  uncut.    R.  M. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

NEW.  The  New  Westminster  Wedding:  Or,  The  Rampant 
vicar.  Being  a  full  Relation  of  the  late  Marriage  of  J.  P.[owell]  to 
Eliz.  Hook,  Spinster ;  the  Ceremony  performed  by  a  Reverend  Jolly 
Dutch-man.  Licens'd  October  26,  1693.  [Colophon.]  Printed  for  the 
Inhabitants  of  Ipszvich  and  Parts  Adjacent.    4to. 

Two  leaves. 

This  seems  to  be  a  relation  of  a  real  occurrence  at  Ipswich.  The  contemporary 
possessor,  who  has  added  the  full  name  of  one  of  the  parties,  says  in  a  MS.  note  in 
the  margin,  "  a  Truth." 


1028  NE  W—NE  WCA  S  TL  E. 

NEW  WIFE  OF  BATH.  The  New  Wife  of  Beath  Much  better 
Reformed,  Enlarged,  and  Corrected,  than  it  was  formerly  in  the  Old 
uncorrect  Copy.  With  the  Addition  of  many  other  Things.  Glasgow, 
Printed  by  Robert  Sanders,  one  of  His  Majesties  Printers.  Anno  Doni. 
1700.    Sm.  8vo.   Black  letter.    G.  M. 

Twelve  leaves. 

In  verse.  This  was  Bright's  copy,  and  appears  to  be  the  only  one  known.  It 
is  written  as  a  sequel  to  Chaucer's  tale,  and  carries  on  the  history  of  the  "  Wife  of 
Bath  "  after  her  death,  describing  her  pilgrimage  to  paradise,  how  she  was  repulsed 
from  heaven's  gates  by  the  worthies  of  the  Old  and  New  Covenant,  from  Adam  to 
St.  Peter,  but  was  at  last  admitted  by  the  merits  of  Christ.  It  is  reprinted  in  the 
privately  printed  "  Select  Specimens  of  Fugitive  Poetry,"  1875,  2nd  series. 

NEW  YEAR'S  GIFT.  The  New-Yeeres  Gift:  Presented  at 
Court  from  the  Lady  Parvula  to  the  Lord  Minimus  (commonly  called 
Little  Jefferie)  Her  Majesties  Servant,  with  a  Letter,  as  it  was  penned 
in  short-hand :  wherein  is  proved  Little  Things  are  better  then  Great. 
Written  by  Microphilvs.  Printed  at  London  by  N.  and  I.  Okes,  dwelling 
in  Little  St.  Bartholoniezves.    1638.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A,  6  leaves,  including  the  portrait  (a  small  full-length,  by  Droeshout,  with  two 
lines  of  verse  beneath  it) ;  B — F  in  twelves,  the  last  two  leaves  blank. 

NEWE  Kiinstliche  Wohlgerissene,  vnnd  in  Holz  geschnittene 
Figuren,  dergleichen  niemahlen  gesehen  worden.  Von  den  Fiirtrefflich- 
sten,  Kiinstlichsten,  vnnd  Berijhmbtesten  Mahlern,  Reissern,  vnnd 
Formschneydern,   Als   nemblich   Albrecht   Diirer,    Hansz    Holbeyn, 

Hansz  Sebaldt  Bohem,  Hansz  Scheufflin Getriickt  zn  Frankfurt 

am  Meyn,  In    Verlegnng    Vincentii  Steinmaycrs.     Anno  M.DC.XX. 
Oblong  4to.     Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  B— Tt  in  fours  ;  Vv,  2  folding  leaves  ;  Xx,  4 
leaves  ;  Yy  and  Yy  ii  form  one  folding  leaf. 

This  work  consists  of  reimpressions  of  wood-blocks  by  different  artists  of  the 
sixteenth  century.  The  blocks  appear  to  have  come  into  the  hands  of  the  Frankfort 
bookseller  who  formed  them  into  a  volume.  Complete  copies  are  of  extremely  rare 
occurrence. 

NEWCASTLE,  William  Cavendish,  Duke  of.  The  Country 
Captaine,  and  the  Varietie,  Two  Comedies,  Written  by  a  Person  of 
Honor.  Lately  presented  by  His  Majesties  Servants  at  the  Black- 
Fryers.  London,  Printed  for  Hum :  Robinsson  at  the  Three  Pidgeons, 
and  Hum :  Moseley  at  the  Princes  Armes  in  St.  Paids  Church-yard. 
1649.    Sm.  8vo. 

General  title  as  above,  i  leaf ;  "  The  Country  Captain,"  with  a  separate  title, 
being  a  portion  of  the  impression  issued  separately  at  the  Hague,  and  subsequently 
transferred  to  the  London  booksellers.  A— D  in  twelves,  except  that  C  has  13 
leaves,  pp.  61-2  being  repeated;  "The  Variety,"  with  a  new  title,  preliminary 
matter,  3  leaves;  B— E  8  in  twelves. 


NEWCASTLE.  1029 

NEWCASTLE,  Margaret,  Duchess  of.  Natures  Pictvres 
drawn  by  Fancies  Pencil  to  the  Life.  Written  by  the  thrice  Noble, 
Illustrious,  and  Excellent  Princess,  the  Lady  Marchioness  of  Newcastle. 
In  this  volume  there  are  seueral  feigned  Stories  of  Natural  Descrip- 
tions, as  Comical,  Tragical,  and  Tragi-Comical,  Poetical,  Romantical, 
Philosophical,  and  Historical,  both  in  Prose  and  Verse,  some  all  Verse, 
some  all  Prose,  some  mixt,  partly  Prose,  partly  Verse.  Also,  there  are 
some  Morals,  and  some  Dialogues ;  but  they  are  as  the  Advantage 
Loaves  to  a  Bakers  dozen ;  and  a  true  Story  at  the  latter  end, 
wherein  there  is  no  Feignings.  London,  Printed  for  J.  Martin  and  J. 
Allestiye,  at  the  Bell  in  Saint  Paul's  Church-yard.    1656.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Frontispiece  by  Clouwe  after  Diepenbeke,  representing  the  Duke  and  Duchess 
and  family  seated  at  table  ;  a— b,  4  leaves  each  ;  c,  6  leaves  ;  B— O  in  fours  ;  *,  4 
leaves  ;  P — Fff  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

There  was  a  former  edition  entitled  "  The  Worlds  Olio,"  &c.,  in  1655.  There  are 
a  few  MS.  corrections  in  this  copy,  perhaps  in  the  authoress's  own  hand. 

The  Life  of  the  Thrice  Noble,  High,  and  Puissant  Prince, 


William  Cavendishe,  Duke,  Marquess,  and  Earl  of  Newcastle  ;  Earl 

of  Ogle  ;    Viscount   Mansfield Who   had  the   Honour  to  be 

Governour  to  our  most  Glorious  King,  and  Gracious  Soveraign,  in  his 
Youth,  when  He  was  Prince  of  Wales  ;  and  soon  after  was  made 
Captain-General  of  all  the  Provinces  beyond  the  River  of  Trent,  and 
other  Parts  of  the  Kingdom  of  England  ;  with  Power,  by  a  special 
Commission,  to  make  Knights.  Written  By  the  thrice  Noble,  Illus- 
trious, and  Excellent  Princess,  Margaret,  Duchess  of  Newcastle,  his 
Wife.    London,  Printed  by  A.  Maxwell,  in  the  Year  i^T:,.    4to.    R.  M. 

A — F  2  in  fours,  including  the  portrait  by  Vorsterman ;  B — LI  2  in  fours. 

A  portrait  of  the  Duchess  by  Van  Schuppen  is  inserted  between  the  two  dedi- 
cations by  the  authoress,  one  addressed  to  the  King,  the  other  to  her  husband. 

Playes  Written  by  the  Thrice  Noble,  Illustrious  and  Excellent 


Princess,  the  Lady  Marchioness  of  Newcastle.  London,  Printed  by  A. 
Warren,  for  John  Martyn,  James  Allestty,  and  Tho.  Dicas,  at  tlic  Bell 
in  St.  Pauls  Church  Yard,  1662.    Folio. 

Title,  I  leaf;  dedication,  i  leaf;  epistle  dedicatory,  i  leaf;  To  the  Readeis 
(various  addresses),  6  leaves  ;  complimentary  verses  by  the  Marquis  of  Newcastle, 
I  leaf;  general  prologue,  2  leaves  ;  B— 8  H,  2  leaves  each,  and  8  I,  4  leaves,  the 
last  two  leaves  unpaged. 

Playes,  Never  before  Printed.   Written  By  the  Thrice  Noble, 


Illustrious,  and  Excellent  Princesse,  the  Duchess  of  Newcastle.  Lon- 
don, Printed  by  A.  Maxwell,  in  the  Year  M.  DC.  LX.  VI IL  Folio. 
Portrait. 

Title,  I  leaf;  to  the  reader,  actors'  names,  &c.,  2  leaves  ;  A— Bb,  2  leaves  each  ; 
B— Z,  2  leaves  each  ;  Aa,  i  leaf ;  Bb— Rr,  2  leaves  each ;  B— X,  2  leaves  each ; 
A— O,  2  leaves  each  ;  A— D,  2  leaves  each  ;  E,  3  leaves. 


1030        NEWFOUNDLAND— NEW  LITANY. 

In  the  epistle  dedicatory  prefixed  to  the  first  series  or  volume,  the  authoress 
remarks:  "  My  resolution  was,  that  when  I  had  done  writing,  to  have  dedicated  all 
my  works  in  gross  to  your  lordship  [her  husband];  and  I  did  verily  believe  that 
this  would  have  been  my  last  work:  but  I  find  it  will  not,  unless  I  dye  before  I 
have  writ  my  other  intended  piece.  And  as  for  this  Book  of  Playes,  I  believe  I 
should  never  have  writ  them,  nor  have  had  the  Capacity  nor  Ingenuity  to  have 
writ  Playes,  had  not  you  read  to  me  some  Playes  which  your  Lordship  had  writ, 
and  lye  by  for  a  good  time  to  be  Acted,  wherein  your  Wit  did  Create  a  desire  in 
my  Mind  to  write  Playes  also,  although  my  Playes  are  very  unlike  those  you  have 
writ,  for  your  Lordships  Playes  have  as  it  were  a  natural  life,  and  a  quick  spirit  in 
them,  whereas  mine  are  like  dull  dead  statues,  which  is  the  reason  I  send  them 
forth  to  be  printed." 

NEWFOUNDLAND.    A  Commission  for  the  well  gouerning  of 
Our  people,  inhabiting  in  New-found-land  ;  Or,  Traffiquing  in  Bayes, 
Creekes,  or  fresh  Riuers  there.   Imprinted  at  London  by  Robert  Barker, 
.  .  .  and  by  the  Assignes  of  lohn  Bill.    M.DC.XXXIII.    4to. 
A — C  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

NEW  JERSEY.  A  Further  Account  of  New  Jersey,  In  an  Ab- 
stract of  letters  Lately  writ  from  thence.  By  several  Inhabitants  there 
Resident:  Printed  in  the  year  1676.    4to. 

Eight  leaves. 

A  Bill  in  the  Chancery  of  New-Jersey,  at  the  Suit  of  John 


Earl  of  Stair,  and  others,  Proprietors  of  the  Eastern-Division  of  New- 
Jersey  ;  against  Benjamin  Bond  and  some  other  Persons  of  Elizabeth- 
town,  distinguished  by  the  Name  of  the  Clinker  Lot  Right  Men.  With 
three  Large  Maps,  done  from  Copper-Plates.  To  which  is  added,  the 
Publications  of  the  Council  of  Proprietors  of  East  New-Jersey,  and 
Mr.  Nevill's  Speeches  to  the  General  Assembly,  concerning  the  Riots 
committed  in  New-Jersey,  and  the  Pretences  of  the  Rioters  and  their 
Seducers.  These  Papers  will  give  a  better  Light  into  the  History  and 
Constitution  of  New-Jersey  than  any  thing  hitherto  published,  the 
Matters  whereof  have  been  chiefly  collected  from  Records.  Published 
by  Subscription.  Printed  by  James  Parker  in  New-  York,  1747;  and  a 
few  Copies  are  to  be  sold  by  him  and  Benjamin  Franklin  in  Philadelphia; 
Price  bound,  and  Maps  coloured.  Three  Pounds;  Plain  and  sticJit  only, 
Fifty  Shillings,  Proclamation  Money.     Folio. 

A — Hh  i  in  twos,  besides  the  title;  a — c,  2  leaves  each;  b  (repeated) — h,  2 
leaves  each;  extracts  from  "  New  York  Gazette,"  1747,  &c.,  3  leaves. 

In  this  copy  the  maps  are  plain. 

NEW  LITANY.  New  Letany  for  these  Times,  fitted  to  most 
Persons  and  Occasions  :  Being  an  Essay  in  order  to  a  New  Reforma- 
tion in  the  Three  Nations.  Ordered,  that  this  Letany  be  forthwith 
Printed  for  publiqiie  satisfaction.    London,  Printed  in  the  second  year  of 


NEW  NETHERLANDS.  1031 

Eiiglands  Redemption  from  the  Spawn  of  Machiavel,  and  after  tJie  never 
to  be  lamented  death  of  jfohn  Bradshaw.    [1659.]    4to. 

Four  leaves.  In  verse.  Fromthe  collections  of  Mr.  JoUeyand  Mr.  George  Smith. 

NEW  NETHERLANDS.    Vryheden  By  de  Vegaderinghe  van 

de  Negenthiene  vande  Geoctroyeerde  West-Indische  Compagnie  ver- 

gunt  aen  alien  den  ghenen,  die  eenighe  Colonien  in  Nieu-Nederlandt 

sullen  plan  ten.  .  .  .  T'Amstelredam,  Voor  Marten  Jansz  Brandt.  .  .  , 

1630.    4to. 

Eight  leaves.    With  an  engraving  on  the  title. 

Vertoogh  van  Nieu-Neder-Land,  Weghens  de  Gheleghent- 

heydt,  Vruchtbaerheydt,  en  Soberen  Staet  desselfs.  In 's  Graven-Hage 
Gedriickt  by  Michiel  Stael.     1650.    4to.     T lie  edges  micut.     R.  M. 

A — E  in  fours;    F,  5  leaves. 

Kort  Verhael  Van  Nieuw-Nederlants  Gelegentheit,  Deughden, 

Natuerlijke  Voorrechten,  en  byzondere  bequaemheidt  ter  bevolkingh  : 
Mitsgaders  eenige  Requesten,  Vertoogen,  Deductien,  enz.  ten  dien 
einden  door  eenige  Liefhebbers  ten  verscheide  tijden  omtrent  't  laetst 
van't  Jaer  1661.  gepresenteert  aen  de  A.  A.  Heeren  Burgermeesteren 

dezer  Stede,  of  der  zelver  E.  E.  Heeren  Gecommitteerde,  enz 

Gedntkt  in  't  faer.    1662.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — L  ii  in  fours.     After  the  title  is  inserted  a 
slip  printed  on  the  recto  only,  headed,  "  Opdracht  aen  den  vertrouwden  Lezer." 

Accords-Puncta,  welcher  gestalt  Am  8.  Septembr.  st.  n.  1664. 

Neu-Niederland  an  die  Englander  sender  einige  Gegenwehr  iiber- 
gangen,  Wie  solches  Symon  Gilde  von  Karop,  Schiffer  aufif  dem 
Schiffe  Gideon,  von  denen  Menates  oder  Neu-Amsterdam  in  Neu-Nie- 
derland kofnend  mitbracht  Am  27.  Augusti  st.  v.  1664.    4to.    BL.  M. 

Two  leaves. 

Naerder  Klagh-Vertoogh  aende   Ho:   Mo:   Heeren  Staten 

Generael,  wegens  De  Bevvinthebberen  vande  Generale  geoctroyeerde 
West-Indische  Compagnie,  ter  sake  vande  onwettelijcke,  ende  grouwe- 
lijcke  proceduren  der  Engelsche  in  Nieu-Nederlant,  met  versoeck  van 

hulp,  ende  assistentie  vande  macht  van'tlant,  tcgens  de  selve 

Nae  de  Copye,  Antio  1664.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

Verdere  Aenteyckeninge  of  Duplyque  Op  seeckere  Replyque 

Vanden  Heer  George  Downing,  Extraordinaris  Envoye  vanden  Koni- 
nigh  van  Groot  Brittagne,  jegens  de  Remarques  vande  Gedeputeerden 
vande  Hoog.  Mog.  Heeren  Staten  Generael  der  Vereenigde  Neder- 
landen  Ingestelt  op  des  selfs  ingediende  Memorie  vanden  30  Decem- 
ber 1664.     Na  de  Copy  in  'sGraven-hage. 1666.    4to. 

A— Y  ii  in  fours. 


1032  NEW  NETHERLANDS— NEWS. 

NEW  NETHERLANDS.  Sommiere  aenteyckeninge  ende  de- 
ductie  ingestelt  by  de  Gedeputeerden  vande  Hooge  Mogende  Heeren 
Staten  Generael  de  Vereenighde  Nederlanden  op  de  lest-ingediende 
Memorie  vanden  Heere  George  Downing.  In  's  Gravenhage.   1665.  4to. 

Vertoo"-h  van  Nieu  Nederland,  and  Breeden  Raedt  aen  de 


Vereenichde  Provintien.  Two  rare  tracts,  printed  in  i649-'50.  relating 
to  the  administration  of  affairs  in  New  Netherland.  Translated  from 
the  Dutch  by  Henry  C.  Murphy.  New  York  :  1854.  4to.  Map  of  the 
River  Hudson.    G.  M. 

Only  125  copies  printed.  Presented  by  Mr.  Lenox  of  New  York.  The  original 
edition  of  both  the  tracts  here  reprinted  are  in  the  library,  the  "  Vertoogh  "  on  the 
preceding  page  and  the  "  Breeden  Raedt"  on  p.  i.  of  the  Catalogue. 

NEWMAN,  Arthur.  The  Bible-bearer.  By  A.  N.  sometimes  of 

Trinity   Colledge   in  Oxford Printed  at  London  by  W.  I. 

for  I.  C.  and  are  to  be  sold  at  the  North  doore  of  P aides.  1607.  4to. 
Black  letter.    0.>I. 

A —  F  3  in  fours. 

Dedicated  "  To  the  Right  worshipful!,  maister  Hugh  Browker,  one  of  the  Protho- 
notories  of  his  Maiesties  Court  of  Common  Pleas."  "  Of  the  scarce  books  of  this 
class  printed  about  this  time,  'The  Bible  bearer'  is  certainly  one  of  the  most  rare. 
Is  there  a  perfect  genuine  copy  known  "i  The  present  fails  only  in  the  title-page,  in 
a  single  word,  which  might  be  made  up  from  another  very  imperfect  copy  in  my  pos- 
session.    It  is  a  clever  satire  directed  against  the  puritanical  and  hypocritical  time 

servers  of  that  day The  author  was  Arthur  Newman." — MS.  note  by  Mr. 

Heber. 

This  tract  was  registered  at  Stationers'  Hall  on  the  22nd  April,  1607,  by  "John 
Trundle,"  and  under  what  circumstances  it  became  the  property  of  another  stationer 
does  not  appear.  The  "  J.  C."  of  the  imprint  may  be  an  error  for  "  J.  T." 

Pleasvres   Vision :    with    Deserts  Complaint,   and  a  Short 

Dialogve  of  a  Womans  Properties,  betweene  an  old  Man  and  a  Young. 
By  Arthvr  Newman  of  the  Middle  Temple  Gent :  London,  Printed  by 
G.  E.  for  Thomas  Bayly,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  in  the  Middle- 
row  in  Holbourne  neere  Staple  Inne.    161 9.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — D  in  eights,  title  on  A  2.  Printed  with  borders  at  the  head  and  foot  of  the 
page. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  George  Newman,  Knight,  a  kinsman  of  the  author.  There  are 
complimentarj'  verses  by  Marchadine  Hunnis,  John  Cookes,  T.  More,  Pe.  Lower,  and 
G.  Parre. 

The  author  was  the  son  of  William  Newman,  Esquire,  of  Ludgvan,  near  Mor- 
wenstow,  in  Cornwall.  Of  his  poems  the  only  other  perfect  copies  known  are  those 
in  the  Bodleian  and  British  Museum  (fonnerly  Corser's).  Heber's  copy,  now  at 
Britwell,  seems  to  want  a  leaf  The  present  was  formerly  in  the  Bibliotheca  Anglo- 
Poetica,  and  has  the  autograph  and  MS.  notes  of  T.  Park.  It  is  the  one  from  which 
Mr.  Utterson  took  his  reprint,  1840. 

NEWS.  News  from  Covent-Garden  :  or,  The  Town-Gallants  Vin- 


NE  WS.  1033 

dication.  Being  the  Debates  and  Result  of  a  famous  Club  of  Wits,  and 
Men  of  Humours  and  Intrigues,  assembled  for  the  Dauncing  of  the 
late  Character.    London,  Printed  for  jf.  T.    1675.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

This  tract  is  a  reply  to  a  publication  which  appeared  in  the  same  year,  entitled 
"  The  Character  of  a  Town  Gallant." 

NEWS.  News  from  Gaunt :  or,  A  Most  Bloody  Murder  of  a 
Woman,  a  Maid,  and  two  Innocent  Children,  terribly  Punish'd  :  .  .  .  . 
London,  Printed  for  William  Thackeray  and  William  Whitwood,  in 
Duck-Lane,  1678.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

Newes  from  Lough-foyle  in  Ireland.    Of  the  late  treacherous 


Action,  and  rebellion,  of  Sir  Carey  Adougherty  and  Felli  Mc  Reeah 
Mack  Dauy.  With  his  ransacking  and  burning  of  the  Cittie  ofDerry, 
&c.  And  the  inhumane  murther  of  Sir  George  Paulet,  his  associates, 
and  most  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  Derry  aforesaid.  London  Printed 
for  Natlianicll  Butter,  and  are  to  be  solde  at  his  shop  in  Panics  Church- 
yard, neere  Saint  Austens  Gate  1608.    4to. 

A — C  3  in  fours,  the  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

Later  Newes  from  Ireland.    Concerning  the  late  treacherous 


Action,  and  rebellion,  of  Sir  Carey  Adoughertie,  and  Felli  M"^  Reeah 
Mack  Dauy.  With  the  cunning  &  deceitefull  surprising  of  Captaine 
Hart,  his  wife  and  Children,  and  the  Castle  of  Kilmore,  his  ransacking 
&  burning  of  the  Cittie  of  Derry  &c.  And  the  inhumane  murther 
of  Sir  George  Paulet.  .  .  .  Newly  imprinted  and  inlarged  by  further 
instructions.    London  Printed  for  Nathattiell  Btitter.  .  .  .  1608.    4to. 

A — C  in  fours,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

This  is  a  reprint  of  the  preceding  tract,  with  which  it  is  bound  up,  and  reads 
with  it  as  far  as  sig.  B  i  verso  from  which  point  it  exhibits  alterations  and  addi- 
tions to  the  end.     It  is  even  rarer  than  the  first  impression. 

Newes  from  Sea,  Of  two  notorious  Pyrates :  Ward  the  English- 


man and  Danseker  the  Dutchman.  With  a  true  relation  of  all  or  the 
most  piracies  by  them  committed  vnto  the  sixt  of  Aprill.  1609.  Printed 
at  London  for  N.  Butter  and  ai-e  to  be  sold  at  his  shop,  at  the  Signe  of 
the  pide  Bull.     1609.    4to.    Black  letter. 

Title  and  dedication,  2  leaves  ;  B — F  3  in  fours. 

Dedicated  by  the  anonymous  writer  "  To  the  Right  Worshipfull  &  most  worthy 
gent.  M.  William  Cockin."  On  F  3  is  :  "  A  Catalogue  of  all  such  Shippes,  as  haue 
been  taken  by  these  two  Pirates  Captain  Ward  and  Captain  Danseker,  or  their  Con- 
federates, to  this  sixth  of  Aprill.  1609." 

Newes  from  Spayne  and  Holland  conteyning  an  information  of 


English  affayres  in  Spayne  with  a  conference  made  thervppon  in  Am- 

6f 


1034  ^^  WS—NE  WTON. 

sterdame  of  Holland.  Written  by  a  Gentleman  trauelour  borne  in  the 
low  countryes,  and  brought  vp  from  a  child  in  Ingland,  vnto  a  Gentle- 
man his  frend  and  Oste  in  London.  [Amsterdam.]  Anno,  M.D.XCIII. 
Sm.  8vo.    Y.  M. 

A,  7  leaves  ;  B— F  3  in  eights. 

Herbert's  copy,  with  his  autograph,  and  those  of  John  Brand  (1798),  and 
Richard  Ford  (1835).  The  following  MS.  note,  pasted  on  to  the  flyleaf,  is  in  Her- 
bert's hand:  "  I  make  no  doubt  but  that  this  is  the  production  of  the  same  pen  that 
wrote  '  The  copie  of  a  letter  written  by  a  Master  of  Arts  of  Cambridge  to  his  friend 
in  London,  &c.'  as  W.  H.  [Herbert's  Ames],  p.  1665,  and  'a  Conference  about  the 
next  succession  to  thecrowne  of  England'  as  W.  H.p.  [1725].  Those  are  both  men- 
tion[ed]  by  A.  Wood,  [and]  ascribed  to  Parsons  the  jesuit,but  he  seems  not  to  have 
known  any  thing  of  this." 

NEWS.  Newes  from  the  New  Exchange,  or  the  Commonwealth  of 
Ladies,  Drawn  to  the  Life,  in  their  severall  Characters  and  Concern- 
ments. [Quotation  from  Martial,  lib.  4,  Epig.  71,  and  from  Ovid.] 
London,  Printed  in  tJte year  of  Women  without  Grace,  1650.    4to. 

A — C  in  fours. 

Newes  from  Tvrkie,  or,  A  true  Relation  of  the  passages  of  the 

Right  honourable  Sir  Tho.  Bendish,  Baronet,  Lord  Ambassadour  with 
the  Grand  Signieur  at  Constantinople,  his  entertainment  and  reception 
there.  Also,  A  true  discourse  of  the  unjust  proceedings  of  Sir  Sack- 
vile  Crow,  former  Ambassadour  there,  against  the  English  Merchants. 
,  .  .  .  Loftdoti,  Printed  for  H.  B.  at  the  Castle  in  Corn-Hill.  1648. 
4to.    The  edges  uncut. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B— F  I  in  fours. 

Newes,  True  Newes,  Laudable  Newes,  Citie  Newes,  Court 

News,  Countrey  Newes  :  The  World  is  mad,  or  it  is  a  mad  World  my 
Masters,  especially  now  when  in  the  Antipodes  these  things  are  come 
to  passe.  London,  Printed  for  F.  Cowles,  T.  Bates,  and  T.  Banks. 
1642.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

This  is  a  humorous  description  of  the  state  of  affairs  at  the  Antipodes,  where 
everything  is  supposed  to  be  conducted  on  diametrically  opposite  principles  to  those 
in  force  here. 

NEWTON,  Thomas,  the  Elder.  A  Notable  Historic  of  the 
Saracens.  Briefly  and  faithfully  descrybing  the  originall  beginning, 
continuaunce  and  successe  as  well  of  the  Saracens,  as  also  of  Turkes, 
Souldans,  Mamalukes,  Assassines,  Tartarians,  and  Sophians.  With 
a  discourse  of  their  Affaires  and  Actes  from  the  byrthe  of  Mahomet 
their  first  peeuish  Prophet  and  founder  for  700  yeeres  space. 
Whereunto  is  annexed  a  Compendious  Chronycle  of  all  their  yeerely 


NEWTON—NICCOLS.  1035 

exploytes,  from  the  sayde  Mahomets  time  tyll  this  present  yeere  of 
grace.  1575.  Drawen  out  of  Augustine  Curio  and  sundry  other  good 
Authours  by  Thomas  Newton.  Imprinted  at  London  by  William  How, 
for  Abraham  Veale.    1575.    4to.    Black  letter.    R. 

Title,  I  leaf;  dedication  to  Charles  Howard,  Lord  Effingham,  2  leaves  ;  B — Q  q 
2  in  fours. 

NEWTON,  Thomas,  the  Younger.  Atropovon  Delion,  or, 
The  death  of  Delia :  With  the  Teares  of  her  Funerall.  A  Poeticall 
Excusiue  Discourse  of  our  late  EHza.  T.  N.  G.[entleman.]  Quis  eius 
obi  it  us.  Imprinted  at  London  for  W.  lohnes  at  tlie  signe  of  the  Giinne, 
neare  Holboi-ne  Conduit.     1603.    4to. 

A — B  in  fours.     Dedicated  to  the  Countess  of  Derby,  wife  of  Sir  T.  Egerton. 

From  the  Chalmers  and  Corser  collections.  A  poetical  tract  of  the  greatest 
rarity.  In  the  dedication  Newton  alludes  with  gratitude  to  the  kindness  shown  by 
Lady  Derby  towards  his  late  uncle  Marmaduke  Newton. 

NICCHOLES,  Alexander.  A  Discovrse,  of  Marriage  and  Wiv- 
ing: and  Of  the  greatest  Mystery  therein  contained  :  how  to  chuse  a 
good  Wife  from  a  bad.  An  Argument  of  the  dearest  vse,  but  the 
deepest  cunning  that  man  may  erre  in  :  which  is,  to  cut  by  a  thrid  be- 
tween the  greatest  good  or  euill  in  the  world.  Pertinent  to  both  Sexes, 
and  Conditions,  as  well  those  already  gone  before,  as  shortly  to 
enter  this  honest  society.  Amare  &  sapere  vix  Difs  conceditur.  By 
Alex.  Niccholes,  Batchelour  in  the  Art  he  neuer  yet  put  in  practise. 

He  that  stands  by,  and  doth  the  game  suruey. 

Sees  more  oft-times  then  those  that  at  it  play. 

Si  voles  disce,  si  vales  doce : 

Si  voles  cape,  si  velles  carpe. 
London,  Printed  by  G.  Eld  for  Leonard  Becket,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his 
Shop  in  the  Temple.    1620.    4to.    Black  letter.    G.  M. 

A,  2  leaves;  B — I  in  fours.    In  prose  and  verse. 

Mr.  Corser's  copy.  There  was  an  earlier  edition  in  1615.  The  tract  is  dedicated 
by  the  author  to  his  friend  Mr.  Thomas  Edgworth,  Under  Treasurer  of  Windsor. 

[NICCOLS,  Richard.]  Expicedium.  A  Fvneral  Oration  vpon 
the  death  of  the  late  deceased  Princesse  of  famous  memorye,  Elisabeth 

by  the  grace  of  God,  Queen  of  England Written  by  Infelice 

Academico  Ignoto.    Wherunto  is  added  the  true  order  of  her  Highnes 
Imperiall  Funerall.    London  Printed  for  E.  White 1603.    4to. 

A — C  in  fours,  the  first  leaf  blank. 

This  piece  was  first  ascribed  to  R.  Niccols  by  Mr.  Collier  in  his  Bibliographical 
Catalogue,  ii.,  32-5,  where  he  gives  a  full  account  of  it,  and  remarks  that  it  is  the 
author's  first  publication. 

The  Cvckow.    At,  ctiain  cubat cuculus :  surge  aviator,  idomtim. 


1036  NICCOLS— NICHOLAS. 

Richardvs  Niccols,  in  Artibus  Bac.  Oxon.  Aulse  Mag.  At  London, 
Printed  by  F.  K.  and  are  to  be  sold  by  IV.  C.    1607.    4to. 

A — G  in  fours.     In  verse. 

The  Bibliotheca  Anglo-Poetica  copy,  with  the  autograph  of  T.  Park;  afterwards 
in  the  library  of  Mr.  Corser. 

[NICCOLS,  Richard.]  Sir  Thomas  Overbvries  Vision.  With  the 
ghoasts  of  Weston,  M"'  Turner,  the  late  Lieftenant  of  the  Tower,  and 
Franklin.  By  R.  N.  Oxon.  — In  pa:nam  insectatnr  13  vmbra.  Printed 
for  R.  M.  &■  T.I.  1616.    4to.     Woodcuts.    G.  M. 

A— H  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2.     In  verse. 

There  is  no  preliminary  matter.  The  woodcut  here  employed  to  represent  "  Sir 
Thomas  Overbury's  Ghost,"  afterwards  served,  in  a  tract  published  in  1617,  for 
a  portrait  of  the  Marquis  dAncre,  the  favourite  of  Louis  XIII. 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

The  Three  Sisters  Teares.    Shed  at  the  Late  Solemne  Funerals 

of  the  Royal  deceased  Henry,  Prince  of  Wales,  &c.  R.  N.  Oxon. 
Mors equi pulsat paupei-nm  tabernas Regnuviq;  tnrres.  London:  Printed 
hy  T.  S.  for  Richard  Redmer,  and  are  to  be  sould  at  his  shop  mere  the 
West  dore  of  Paules  Church.    1 6 1 3.    4to. 

A — F  2  in  fours,  the  first  and  last  leaves  of  sig.  A  not  being  printed,  but  being  in 
black,  except  that  the  former  has  a  woodcut  of  the  Prince  of  Wales's  feathers  in  the 
centre. 

From  the  libraries  of  Sir  F.  Freeling  and  Mr.  Corser.  This  poem  is  written  in 
six-line  stanzas,  and  concludes  with  an  epitaph.  See  "  Bibl.  Anglo-Poetica,"  No. 
492 ;  but  that  copy  evidently  wanted  the  leaves  A  i  and  A  4.  Niccols  is  best  known 
as  the  editor  of  the  enlarged  and  modernized  edition  of  the  "  Mirror  for  Magistrates," 
1610,  to  which  he  contributed  two  original  poems,  "England's  Eliza"  and  "A 
Winter  Nights  Vision." 

NICHOLAS,  Henry.  Comoedia.  A  Worke  in  Ryme  contayning 
an  Enterlude  of  Myndes,  witnessing  the  Mans  Fall  from  God  and  Christ. 
Set  forth  by  H  N,  and  by  him  newly  perused  and  amended.  [Quota- 
tions from  Psalm  45.]  \No  place,  or  date.  Printed  abroad,  about  \i,yo^ 
Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A — D  in  eights.  From  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Jolley  and  Mr.  Corser.  See  Herbert's 
edition  of  Ames,  pp.  1640-1. 

See  the  valuable  monograph :  "  Henrick  Niclars :  The  Family  of  Love,"  by  Mr. 
Hessels,  in  which  is  given  an  account  of  this  mystic  writer  and  a  more  copious  and 
accurate  catalogue  of  his  works  in  English  than  is  to  be  found  elsewhere. 

Dicta  H  N.    Documentall  Sentences  :   eauen-as  those-same 


were  spoken-fourth  by  H  N,  and  writcn-vp  out  of  the  Woordes  of  his 
Mouth.  And  are  by  him  pervsed,  and  more-distinctlie  declared 
Translated  out  of  Base-almayne.  [Quotations.]  {No  place,  or  date. 
Printed  abroad,  about  ii,jo.'\    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A — F  7  in  eights. 


NICHOLAS— NICHOLAY.  1037 

NICHOLAS,  Henry.  The  first  Epistle  of  H.N.  A  Crying-voyce 
of  the  holye  Spirit  of  Loue/  wherwith  all  People,  eauen  out  of  meere 
Grace ;  are  called  and  intirelie-bidden,  through  H.  N./to  the  true  Repen- 
taunce  for  their  Synnes,  to  the  Entraunce  of  the  vpright  christian  Life 
and  to  the  Howse  of  the  Loue  of  Jesu  Christ.  [Quotation  from  St. 
Luke.]  Translated  out  of  Base-almayne  into  English.  [Quotations.] 
\_No place,  or  date.    Printed  abroad  about  i^'j^.']     Sm.  8vo.   Black  letter. 

A,  8  leaves  ;  )(,  2  leaves,  the  first  blank ;  then  A — G  in  eights,  after  which  oc- 
curs a  leaf  with  a  heart-shaped  emblem,  beneath  which  are  four  lines  of  verse,  and 
above  "  Charitas  Extorsit." 

On  )(  2  is  a  curious  woodcut  representing  "  an  Howshold-father "  instructing 
"  the  comunialtie  of  the  Loue  of  Jesu  Christ." 

Evangelivm  Regni.  A  Joyfull  Message  of  the  Kingdom,  pub- 
lished by  the  holie  Spirit  of  the  Loue  of  lesu  Christ,  and  sent-fourth 
vnto  all  Nations  of  People,  which  loue  the  Trueth  in  lesu  Christ.  Set- 
fourth  by  H  N,  and  by  him  pervsed  a-new  and  more-distinctlie  declared. 
Translated  out  of  Base-almayne.  [Quotations.]  \_No  place  or  date. 
Printed  abroad  about  1574.]    Sm.  8vo. 

A— N  4  in  eights. 

A  beautiful  copy  in  the  original  gilt  vellum  cover.  In  the  same  volume  with  the 
"  Proverbia." 


Proverbia  H  N.    The  Prouerbes  of  H  N.    Which  Hee,  in  the 

Dayes  of  his  Olde-age ;  hath  set-fourth  as  Similitudes  and  mysticall 
Sayinges.  Translated  out  of  Base-almayne.  [Quotations.]  \_No  place 
or  date.    Printed  abroad  about  i^T^T^    Sm.  8vo. 

A — F  6  in  eights. 

Revelatio  Dei.    The  Reuelation  of  God/  and  his  great  Pro- 


pheatie :   which  God   now,  in  the  last  Daye ;   hath  shewed  vnto  his 
Elect.    Set-fourth  by  H  N,  and  by  him  pervsed  anew  and  more  dis- 
tinctlie  declared.    Translated  out  of  Base-almayne.    \No  place  or  date. 
Printed  abroad  about  i^j^."]    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    BL.  M. 
A — G  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

NICHOLAY,  Nicholas.  The  Nauigations,  peregrinations  and 
voyages,  made  into  Turkie  by  Nicholas  Nicholay  Daulphinois,  Lord  of 
Arseuile,  Chamberlaine  and  Geographer  ordinarie  to  the  king  of 
Fraunce :  conteining  sundry  singularities  which  the  Author  hath  there 
seene  and  obserued  :  Deuided  into  foure  Bookes,  With  threescore 
figures,  naturally  set  forth  as  well  of  men  as  women,  according  to  the 
diuersitie  of  nations,  their  port,  intreatie,  apparrell,  lawes,  religion  and 
maner  of  liuing,  as  wel  in  time  of  warre  as  peace  :  With  diuers  faire  and 
memorable  histories,  happened  in  our  time.    Translated  out  of  the 


I038  NICHOLL— NICHOLS. 

French  by  T.  Washington  the  younger.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Thomas 
Daiuson.    1585.    4to.     Woodcuts.    G.  M. 

Title  and  dedicatory  epistle  "To  the  Right  Honorable  Sir  Henry  Sidney,"  4 
leaves  ;  A— Y  2  in  eights. 

The  dedicatory  epistle  is  signed  by  "John  Stell,"  who  speaks  of  the  book  as 
"  printed  in  English  at  my  costes  &  charges  for  the  general  profite  &  pleasure  of  the 
studious,  and  al  such  as  delight  in  nouelties." 

NICHOLL,  John.  An  Houre  Glasse  of  Indian  Newes.  Or  A 
true  and  tragicall  discourse,  shewing  the  most  lamentable  miseries,  and 
distressed  Calamities  indured  by  67  Englishmen,  which  were  sent  for 
a  supply  to  the  planting  in  Guiana  in  the  yeere.  1605.  Who  not  find- 
ing the  saide  place,  were  for  want  of  victuall,  left  ashore  in  Saint  Lucia, 
an  Island  of  Caniballs,  or  Men-eaters  in  the  West-Indyes,  vnder  the 
Conduct  of  Captain  Sen-Iohns,  of  all  which  said  number  only  a  11. 
[sic]  are  supposed  to  be  still  liuing,  whereof  4.  are  lately  returned 
into  England.  Written  by  lohn  NichoU,  one  of  the  aforesaid  Com- 
pany. Homo  es  ?  humani  nil  a  te  alienum  puta.  London  Printed  for 
Nathaniell  Butter,  and  are  to  bee  solde  at  his  Shop  neere  Saint  Austens 
Gate.    1607.    Black  letter.    4to.    G.  M. 

A— F  2  in  fours,  first  leaf  occupied  by  a  woodcut  of  a  ship  and  a  half-title. 

NICHOLS,  John.  The  History  and  Antiquities  of  the  County  of 
Leicester.   Compiled  from  the  best  and  most  ancient  Historians,  Inqui- 

sitiones  postmortem London 1795 — 181 5.    Portraits, 

plates,  &c.    4  vols,  in  8.    Folio.    Large  paper.    R. 

From  the  libraries  of  Sir  M.  M.  Sykes  and  Mr.  H.  Perkins, 

Illustrations  of  the  Manners  and  Expences  of  Antient  Times 

in  England,  in  the  fifteenth,  sixteenth,  and  seventeenth  Centuries. 
Deduced  from  the  Accompts  of  Churchwardens  and  other  Authentic 
Documents,  collected  from  Various  Parts  of  the  Kingdom.  With 
Explanatory  Notes.     London  1797.    4to. 

a,  4  leaves  ;  b,  i  leaf;  A — Ee  in  fours  (5  leaves  in  R);  Ff,  15  leaves  ;  Ee  (re- 
peated)— Ff,  in  fours  ;  Gg,  2  leaves  ;  Hh,  2  leaves  ;  li,  i  leaf;  Kk,  2  leaves  ;  LI — Tt 
in  fours  ;  Uu,  2  leaves  ;  Xx,  I  leaf ;  then  B — D  in  fours  ;  B  (repeated) — Ee  in  fours  ; 
"  A  Warrant  of  Queen  Mary,"  i  leaf  unsigned  ;  then  A — B  in  fours  ;  a  leaf  marked 
B,  containing  "the  Expenses  of  entertaining  King  James  II.  at  Coventry,  16S7;" 
"  Ceremonials  at  Various  Funerals,"  6  leaves,  marked  M—  L  2,  and  paged  65-76. 

The  editor's  own  copy,  with  his  autograph. 

Literary  Anecdotes  of  the  Eighteenth  Century  ;  Comprising 

Biographical    Memoirs   of   William    Bowyer,    Printer,    F.S.A 

London  ....  1812-15.  9  vols.  Illustrations  of  the  Literary  History 
of  the  Eighteenth  Century  ....  intended  as  a  sequel  to  the  Literary 
Anecdotes  ....  London  ....  1817-58.  8  vols.  Together,  17  vols. 
8vo.     Portraits. 


NICHOLS— NICOLAI.  1039 

NICHOLS,  John.  The  Progresses  and  Public  Processions  of 
Queen  Elizabeth,  among  which  are  interspersed  other  solemnities, 
public  expenditures,  and  Remarkable  Events,  during  the  reign  of  that 
illustrious  Princess.  Now  first  printed  from  Original  MSS.  of  the 
times,  or  collected  from  scarce  Pamphlets,  &c.  Illustrated  with  His- 
torical Notes,  by  John  Nichols.  London.  1788-1805.  3  vols.  4to. 
Plates.    R. 

The  Progresses,  Processions,  and  magnificent  festivities  of 


King  James  the  First,  His  Royal  Consort,  Family,  and  Court.  Col- 
lected from  Original  Manuscripts  ....  Comprising  Forty  Masques 
and  Entertainments,  ten  Civic  Pageants,  Numerous  Original  Letters 
.  .  .  .  By  John  Nichols  .  .  .  .  London.    1828.    4  vols.   4to.   Plates.   R. 

[NICHOLS,  J.  G.]  Accounts  of  Fifty-five  Royal  Processions  and 
Entertainments  in  the  City  of  London.  II.  A  Bibliographical  List 
of  Lord  Mayors' Pageants.    London.    183 1.    8vo.    Frontispiece. 

With  the  book-plate  of  Joseph  Haslewood  and  Thomas  JoUey,  and  two  auto- 
graph letters  from  John  Gough  Nichols  to  Haslewood. 

In  the  same  volume  are  bound  up  two  auction  catalogues  of  rare  old  plays  and 
pageants,  sold  in  1826,  and  a  catalogue  of  a  collection  of  early  pageants  and  plays, 
on  sale,  by  T.  Thorpe,  about  the  same  date. 

NICHOLSON,  Samuel.  Acolastvs  his  after-witte.  By  S.  N. 
Semel  insaniuimus  omnes.  At  London  Imprinted  for  lolui  Bay  lie,  and 
are  to  be  sold  at  his  slwp,  mere  tfie  little  North-doore  of  Paules  Church. 
1600.    4to.    BL.  M. 

A— I  in  fours,  I  4  blank,  title  on  A  2.     In  six-line  stanzas. 

Dedicated  to  his  dear  Achates,  Master  Richard  VVarburton.  An  account  of  this 
volume  and  its  unacknowledged  obligations  to  others,  will  be  found  in  Collier  ("  Bibl. 
Cat.,"  ii.,  46-8).     From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

NICODEMUS.  Nychodemus  gospell  [This  is  over  a  woodcut 
border  of  pieces,  within  which  is  enclosed  a  small  cut  of  the  descent 
from  the  Cross,  with  Wynkyn  de  Worde's  mark  beneath.]  [Colophon.] 
Tims  endeth  Nychodevius  gospell.  Enprynted  at  London  in  Fletestrete 
at  the  sygne  of  tlie  sonne  by  Wynkyn  de  Worde.  In  tJie yere  of  our  lorde 
god.  M.  CCCCC.  and .  xi.    4to.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

A,  8  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves  ;  C,  8  leaves  ;  D,  6  leaves. 

Second  known  edition.  From  the  libraries  of  Home  Tooke,  Lord  Blandford,  and 
Hibbert. 

NICOLAI,  Eliud.  Newe  vnd  warhaffte  relation,  von  derme  \sic'\ 
was  sich  in  beederley.  Das  ist.  In  den  West-vnd  Ost-Indien,  von  der 
zeit  an  zugetragen,  dasz  sich  die  Nauigationes  der  Holl-vnnd  Engelliind- 
ischen  compagnien  daselbsthin  angefangen  abzuschneiden.  Dabey  die 
Ursachen  entdeckt,  warumb  solche  Nauigationes  sich  nicht  mehr  also 


I040  NICOLLS— NIGER. 

heuffig  continuiern,  wie  es  die  general  Ost  Indianische  gesellschaft  vor 

sichgehabt Getriickt  zic  Milnchen 1619.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves;  map  of  the  two  hemispheres  ;  pp.  1-15S. 

NICOLLS,  Ferdinando.  The  Life  and  Death  of  Mr.  Ignatius 
Jurdain,  One  of  the  Aldermen  of  the  City  of  Exeter  ;  Who  departed 
this  Life,  July  15th.  1640.  [Quotations.]  Drawn  up  and  published  by 
Ferdinand  Nicolls,  Minister  of  the  Gospel  at  Mary  Arches,  Exon. 
The  second  Edition,  enlarged  by  the  Author.  London,  Printed  for 
Thomas  Newberry,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  at  the  three  Golden 
Lions  OH  Corn-hill  by  the  Royal  Exchange,  1655.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — E  in  twelves. 

Jourdain  was  a  justice  of  the  peace,  as  well  as  a  merchant,  and  a  very  curious 
case  in  which  he  was  mixed  up  in  his  magisterial  capacity  is  recorded  by  Burn 
in  his  History  of  the  Star  Chamber,  1870,  p.  99. 

NICOLSON,  Joseph,  and  R.  BURN.  The  History  and  Antiqui- 
ties of  the  Counties  of  Westmoreland  and  Cumberland.  London.  1777. 
2  vols.   4to.    Maps.    G.  M. 

NICOLSON,  W.,  Bishop  of  Carlisle.  The  English,  Scotch  and 
Irish  Historical  Libraries.  ...  A  New  Edition  corrected.  London. 
1776.    4to. 

NIDER,  Johannes.  Hie  hebt  sich  an  das  aller  nuczlichest  buch, 
genat  die  vier  und  zweinczig  guldin  harpffen,  die  mit  fleiss  ausz  der 
heiligen  geschrifft  vnd  der  altuater  buch,  durch  eine  hochgelerte  doctor 
Bruder  Hansen  Nyder,  prediger  ordens  zu  Niiremberg  also  geprediget. 
[Colophon.]  Hie  ennde  sich  die  vicrvnsweinczig  giddin  harpffen,  die 
gezogen  seind  ausz  collacoib^  pat^^,  das  ist  ausss  dJieylige  altuater  buch 
vnd  die  hat  getruckt  Johannes  Bdmlcr  In  der  keyserlicheti  stat  A  ugs- 
piirg  An  freytag  vor  iveyhcnnachten.    In  dem  LXX  ij.jare.    Folio. 

161  leaves,  28  and  29  lines  to  the  page. 

Panzer,  in  his  Annalen,  says  that  he  had  not  been  able  to  see  any  copy  of  this 
edition,  and  he  therefore  gives  the  title  from  the  reprint  of  1483. 

NIEUHOF,  JOHAN.  Gedenkweerdige  Brasiliaense  Zee-en  Lant- 
Reize Amsterdam 1682.    Folio.    Maps  and  plates. 

Frontispiece,  title,  plate  of  arms,  portrait,  and  preUminaries,  7  leaves;  pp.  1-240  ; 
index,  i  leaf. 

Zee  en  Lant-Reize,  door  verscheide  Gewesten  van  Oostindien. 


....  Amsterdam 1682.    Folio.    Maps  and  plates. 

Title  and  verses,  2  leaves  ;  pp.  1-308  ;  index,  2  leaves. 

NIGER.     Franc.  Petreii  Nigri  Cremonen.  A  secretis  Senatus  Me- 
diolanen.  Britannicar.   Nvptiar.  libri  tres.     Mediolani,  ex  typographia 


NICE  R~NI  TZSCHE  WI TZ.  1 04 1 

Moscheiiiana.  M.D.LIX.  4to.  Woodcut  on  the  title  containing  portraits 
of  Philip  and  Mary.    R.  M. 

Pp.  118,  including  title. 

NIGER,  Petrus.  [Folio  i.]  Ad  Reuerendissimu  in  xpo  prem  ac 
dominu.  Sancte  ecclesie  Ratisponens®  Episcopu.  Prefacio  fris  petri 
Nigri.  Ordinis  pdicato-'4  In  tractatu  otra  pfidos  Judeos  de  odicionibD 
veri  messie .  i .  xjji  ut  vncti  ex  textibus  hebraicis.  latinoit  dementis 
utcuq,  figuratis  ofectu  feliciter  Incipit.  [Colophon.]  ....  Inpressus  [sic] 
est  p  discretu  ac  Indiistriu  viru  Cotiradum  Fijner  de  gerhus'^en.  In 
Esslingen  Imperiali  villa,  ac  Jplct^  Anno  ab  Incarnacoe  drd  Millesimo 
CCCCLXXV.  die  sexta  Junii.    Folio.    BR.  M. 

Forty-nine  leaves. 

The  earliest  book  in  which  Hebrew  characters  were  used,  they  occur  on  folios 
10  and  14.    Hain.  11,885. 

[Stella  Meschiah.]    [Colophon.]    Das  buck  Itat  gedrikkt  vnd 

volendt  Conradus  feyner  von  Gerhansen  in  der  keyserlichJi  stat  Essling. 
an  sant  Thomas  abent  als  man  czelet  vo  cristi  gcpurdt  Tansent  vier- 
hnndert  vnd  siben  vnd  sibenczigk.  Jar.    Explicit  Stella  Meschiah    4to. 

Three  hundred  and  twenty-two  leaves.  The  first  leaf  has  a  large  woodcut  on  the 
verso,  while  the  recto  is  quite  blank. 

NIGHTINGALE.  The  Nightingale.  Containing  a  Collection  of 
Four  Hundred  and  Twenty  Two  of  the  most  Celebrated  English  Songs. 
None  of  which  are  contain'd  in  the  Collection  of  the  same  Size,  call'd 
The  Syren.     London:  1738.    Sm.  8vo.    Frontispiece. 

Pp.  14  +  384,  besides  the  frontispiece.     From  the  Corser  collection. 

NINE  WORTHIES.  The  Famous  and  Renowned  History  of 
the  Nine  Worthies  of  the  World ;  viz.  I.  Hector,  son  of  Priamus, 
King  of  Troy :    II.  Alexander  the  Great,  who  first   conquered  the 

World Giving   a  true   Historical   Account   of  their   Glorious 

Lives,  Victories,  and  Deaths.  London :  Printed  by  and  for  C.  Brown, 
and  sold  by  tfie  Booksellers  of  Pye-  Corner  and  L  ondon-Bridge.  \n.  d.]  4to. 

A — C  in  fours. 

NITZSCHEWITZ,  Hermannus.  Nouum  beate  marie  virgTs 
psalterium  de  dulcissimis  noue  legis  mirabilib^  dini  amoris  refertis 
nouit^  ad  fci  Dterito3  ofectu.  [This  is  over  a  large  woodcut.]  [On  A  ii.] 
Actum  hoc  noui'i  et  infrascriptum  beate  Marie  vitginis  psaltcriu  .... 
ab  .  .  .  .  Imillimo  Cappellano  Hermdno  Nitzschewitz  ex  Brandeburgesi 
Margia  Trebbinensi  vtrius(f  luris  osnltu  magno  Circa  Oderam  Franck- 

fordensz  ciuitatis pthonotario Anno  domini  Millesinioquadringe- 

tesimo  octuogesimo  Nona  Illustrissimo  Inipatori  Friderico  ex  Luneborch 
delatu  Et  Anno  NonagesirnosecTido  in  mense  Septebri  ad  Illiistrissimas 

6g 


I042  NIXON. 

cesarias  regiasf  inan^  pncialif  prcsentatn  [sic]  .  .  .  .  Nuc  et  iuTzenna 
Cistcrciensis  ordls  dcuoto  claiistro  sub pncipatu  domini.  dni  Nicolai  abbatis 
spiritualis  patris  .  ...  ad  alii  celsi  sacri  diiii  pij  Illustrissimi  viaximi 
Maximiliani  nostri  gloriosissimi  dignisshni  §  regis  noui  nostri  et  nuc 
imdctissivii  Impatoris  ....  honore  non  sine  modico  sumptu  impres- 
sujn.    4to.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

This  book  is  of  extreme  rarity  in  a  complete  state,  and  an  accurate  collation 
does  not  appear  in  any  bibliographical  work. 

A  and  B,  8  leaves  each  ;  C,  lo  leaves.  Then  begins  a  new  part.  A— F,  8  leaves 
each,  but  note  that  the  sig.  A  comes  on  the  third  leaf  of  the  sheet,  the  first  leaf 
begins,  "  [A]  Staygidis  rex."  Sig.  G  is  omitted.  H,  8  leaves  ;  then  follow  four  leaves 
without  signature,  the  first  containing  a  cut  of  the  Virgin  surrounded  by  a  glory 
formed  of  swords,  the  last  with  the  verso  blank.  Sig.  H  H,  8  leaves  ;  I  and  K, 
8  leaves  each ;  L,  6  leaves.  On  the  last  leaf  is  a  register  of  signatures,  but  it  would 
be  difficult  to  collate  an  imperfect  copy  by  this,  though  it  is  useful  to  see  how  a  per- 
fect one  is  made  up.  It  takes  no  account  of  the  first  part,  containing  twenty-six 
leaves.  1492  is  given  on  Aii  as  the  year  in  which  the  work  was  compiled.  The 
date  of  printing  was  probably  not  more  than  a  year  or  two  later.  Some  of  the  wood- 
cuts are  extremely  curious.  One  represents  Christ  leaving  the  disciples  at  Emmaus 
by  passing  through  a  crack  in  the  wainscot,  and  in  another  it  is  endeavoured  to  sym- 
bolize the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  by  three  children  standing  in  one  boot. 

NIXON,  Anthony.  The  Blacke  yeare.  Seria  iocis.  London 
Printed  by  E.  Alldc  for  William  Tivime,  divelling  in  Pater  noster-rowe, 
at  ike  signe  of  the  Flower  de  Luce  and  Crowne  neere  Cheapside.  1606. 
4to. 

A— E  in  fours  ;  title  on  A  2. 

In  prose  and  verse.  From  Mr.  Corser's  library.  Dedicated  by  the  author  to 
Francis  Coppinger,  Esquire. 

The  Dignitie  of  Man,  Both  in  the  Perfections  of  his  Sovle  and 

Bodie.  Shewing  as  well  the  Faculties  in  the  disposition  of  the  one  : 
as  the  Senses  and  Organs,  in  the  composition  of  the  other.  By  A. 
N.[ixon.]  Prodeo  vt  vie  perlcgas :  Perlege  vt profieias.  London.  Printed 
by  Edzvard  Allde  dwelling  vppon  Lambert-hill,  neere  old  Fish-street. 
1612.    4to. 

A— R  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

Dedicated  to  William  Redman,  of  Great  Shelford,  in  the  county  of  Cambridge, 
Esquire,  whose  arms  (with  some  verses  beneath)  are  on  the  back  of  the  title. 

The  Scovrge  of  Corruption.    Or  a  Crafty  Knave  needs  no 

Broker.  Qui  bene  latuit,  bene  vixit.  Doniinatjir  fraus  in  omnibus. 
Written  by  Anthony  Nixon.  Printed  at  Lo7idon,  for  Henry  Gossan, 
and  William  Houlmes,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Popes-head 
Pallace.    1615.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A,  2  leaves  ;  B — F  2  in  fours. 

In  prose  and  verse.  Dedicated  "  To  the  Worthy  and  ludicious  Gentleman, 
Robert  Garset,  Esquire."     From  the  Roxburghe,  Heber,  and  Corser  collections. 


NIXON— NOBOD  Y.  1043 

The  copy  in  "  Bibl.  Heber.,"  part  iv.,  No.  1608,  wanted  the  dedication.    See  "  Bibl. 
Anglo-Poet.,"  No.  497. 

NIXON,  Anthony.  The  Foot-Post  of  Douer.  With  his  Pocket 
stuft  full  of  strange  and  merry  Petitions.  London,  Printed  by  Edw  : 
Allde,  and  are  to  be  solde  by  lohn  Deane,  dwelling  iust  vnder  Temple 
barre.     1616.     4to.    Black  letter.    R. 

B— G  in  fours,  and  the  title-page. 

In  prose  and  verse.  This,  from  the  libraries  of  Mr.  JoUey  and  Mr.  Corser,  is 
believed  to  be  the  only  copy  known  of  a  re-issue,  with  a  fresh  title  and  the  preface 
cancelled,  of  Nixon's  tract,  printed  in  1613,  "A  Straunge  Foot-Post,"  of  which  an 
imperfect  copy,  formerly  Heber's,  was  sold  among  Mr.  Corser's  books.  The  title- 
page,  with  the  names  of  the  petitioners  on  the  back  of  it,  and  the  preface,  together 
two  leaves,  were  taken  out  of  the  latter,  and  have  been  inserted  in  this  copy  of 
i6i6.     Both  issues  bear  the  same  woodcut  on  the  title. 

NIZAMI.  The  Five  Poems  [Khamsa  =  Ouinio  or  Quinary]  of  the 
Persian  poet  Mohammed  ben  Yusuf  Shaikh  Nizam  ud  Dfn  of  Gandj, 
known  as  Nizami.    Sm.  folio. 

Beautifully  written,  with  illuminated  opening  pages.  Executed  at  Shirdz,  by 
Mirzd  Acd-si  (Aghassi)  Nddd  'Ah'  el-Hoseini,  in  A.  H.  1234-1237  (about  1819).  In  a 
native  binding,  magnificently  lacquered,  painted  with  birds  and  flowers,  and  inlaid 
with  texts  from  the  poet,  forming  such  a  specimen  of  modern  art-work  as  can  rarely 
be  seen. 

Nizami  lived  in  the  twelfth  century  of  our  era, and  flourished  under  the  patronage 
of  the  Seljuk  king,  Kilidj  Arslan.  His  five  romantic  poems  (Khamsa)  are  also 
called  Pandj  Gandj  (the  Five  Treasures),  a  title  which  puns  upon  his  own  name 
Gandji,  derived  from  his  birthplace.  In  imitation  of  Nizami  most  later  Persian 
poets  have  attempted  a  "  khamsa,"  but  no  one  has  equalled  him.  The  names  of 
the  poems  are  as  follows,  the  sLxth  being  a  very  rare  supplement  to  the  fifth  : — 

1.  Makhzan  ul  Asrar  .L«^J1   ^^}:s*•     Treasury  of  Secrets. 

2.  Khosrii  va  Shi'n'n  ^  -jJI,.  4^-j.i^.  Adventures  of  the  two  famous  lovers, 
Khosrii  and  Shirin. 

3.  Di'wdni  Shdh  Behrim  ^Lyj  Jj'Ji  ^^.^-  Poem  of  King  Behrdm  Gur,  the  son 
of  Yezdejiro.' 

4.  Leila  u  Majmin  ^Jis^.  ^J-jJ.  Loves  of  the  Dark  Lady  and  her  Frenzied 
Suitor. 

5.  Iskender-nameh  ^'J   .JvaL*'.     Romantic  History  of  Alexander  the  Great. 

6.  Sharaf-nimeh  <tcU  i_Jjl«.  Continuation  of  Alexander's  story.  This  is  so 
scarce  that  very  few  MSS.  contain  it,  and  Hammer,  when  writing  the  history  of 
Persian  poetry,  knew  nothing  of  it,  conjecturing  that  death  or  a  change  of  mind 
had  caused  Nizami  to  stop  short  at  the  end  of  vol.  i.  (It  is  also  called  the  Ikbil- 
nimeh,  or  the  second  volume  of  the  Iskender-nimeh.) 

'  The  Diwdni  Shdh  Behrdm  is  better  known  as  the  Heft  Peiker  jCj  oJ»,  or 
Seven  Beauties,  as  it  consists  of  a  succession  of  stories  told  by  seven  princesses 
on  seven  days  of  the  week. 

NOBODY  AND  SOMEBODY.  No-Body,  and  Some-body. 
With  the  true  Chronicle  Historie  of  Elydure,  who  was  fortunately 


1044  NODAL— NOORT. 

three  seuerall  times  crowned  King  of  England.  The  true  Coppy  there- 
of, as  it  hath  beene  acted  by  the  Queens  Maiesties  Seruants.  Printed 
for  lohn  Trundle  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Barbican,  at  the  signe 
of  No-body.    [1606.]    4to.    R.  M. 

A — I  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

This  copy  has  the  woodcut  on  the  title-page,  but  wants  the  leaf  I  4,  which  has 
a  second  cut  on  the  verso.  "  This  play  is  not  divided  into  acts.  The  story  is  taken 
from  our  English  chronicles." — HalUwell. 

It  was  licensed  to  "John  Trundell,"  on  March  12,  1606,  as  "A  Booke  called 
no  bodie  and  somme  bodie  &c.  \\\"—Arber's  Transcript.,  iii.,  136  b. 

NODAL.  Relacion  del  Viaje  qve  por  Orden  de  su  Mag"",  y  acverdo 
del  Real  Consejo  de  Indias.  Hizieron  los  Capitanes  Bartolome  Garcia 
de  Nodal,  y  Gongalo  de  Nodal  hermanos,  naturales  de  Ponte  Vedra,  al 
descubrimiento  del  Estrecho  nuebo  de  S.  Vicente,  y  reconosimj".  del 

de  Magallanes Con  Privilegio.    En  Madrid.  Por  Fernando  Corrca 

de  Montenegro.  Aflo  1621.    4to.    BL.  M. 

Preliminaries,  12  leaves,  including  the  engraved  title,  which  contains  portraits 
of  Bartolome  and  Gonzalo  Nodal.  A— G  in  eights;  H,  9  leaves,  followed  by  a— b 
in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank.     At  folio  i  is  a  large  folding  map. 

NOORT,  Olivier  van.  Beschryvinghe  vande  Voyagie  cm  den 
geheelen  Werelt  Cloot,  ghedaen  door  Olivier  van  Noort  van  Vtrecht, 
Generael  over  vier  Schephen,  te  weten :  het  Schip  Mauritius  als  Ad- 
mirael  dat  wederom  ghecomen  is,  Hendrick  Fredrick  Vice-Admirael, 
het  Schip  de  Eendracht,  midtsgaders  de  Hope,  wel  ghemonteert  van 
alle  Ammonitie  van  Oorloghe  ende  Victualie  ....  Men  vintse  te 
coop  tot  Rotterdam,  by  Jan  van  Waesberghen,  op  de  Marct  inde  Fame. 
Ende  tot  [Ajnsteli-edam,  by  Cornelis  Claessz  opt  Water,  int  Schrijfboeck. 
O.  7.]    Oblong  4to. 

Reprinted  by  De  Bry,  "  Grands  Voyages,"  vol.  ix.,  pt.  3,  1602.  See  also  Camus 
"  Mdmoire,"  pp.  102  and  122,  and  Muller,  p.  27.  This  is  probably  the  same  copy  that 
is  described  by  Muller,  as  he  remarks  that  he  knew  of  only  one  copy,  and  that  had 
the  last  line  of  the  imprint  cut  off,  which  is  the  case  with  this. 

Beschryvinghe  van  de  Voj'agie  cm  den  geheelen  Werelt  Cloot, 

ghedaen  door  Olivier  van  Noort  van  Vtrecht,  Generael  over  vier 
Schepen,  te  weten  :  Mauritius  als  Admirael,  Hendrick  Frederick  Vice- 
Admirael,  de  Eendracht,  midtsgaders  de  Hope,  op  hebbende  tsamen 
248.  man,  om  te  zeylen  door  de  Strate  Magellanes,  te  handclen  langs 
de  custen  van  Cica,  Chili  en  Peru,  om  den  gantschen  Aerden  Cloot, 
ende  door  de  Molucques  wederom  thuys  te  comen.  Te  zeyl  gegaen 
van  Rotterdam,  den  tweeden  July  159S.  Ende  den  Generael  met  het 
Schip  Mauritius  is  alleen  wcder  ghekeert  in  Augusto,  Anno  1601. 
Tot  Rotterdam.  By  Jan  van  Waesberglien,  ende  by  Cornelis  Claessz 
tot  A  mstelredam,  opt  Water  int  ScJiryfbocck,  A  nno  1 602.  Oblong  4to. 
Muller,  p.  29,  where  a  full  collation  is  given. 


NORDEN—NOR  THA  MP  TON.  1045 

NORDEN,  John.  Specvlvm  Britanniae.  The  first  parte  An 
historical!  &  chorographicall  discription  of  Middlesex.  Wherin  are  also 
alphabeticallie  sett  dovvne,  the  names  of  the  cyties,  townes,  parishes 
hamletes,  howses  of  name  &c.  W"  direction  spedelie  to  finde  anie 
place  desired  in  the  mappe  &  the  distance  betwene  place  and  place 
Without  compasses.  Cvm  Privilegio.  By  the  Travaile  and  Vew  of 
lohn  Norden.  Anno  1593.    4to. 

A — H  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated,  I.  To  the  Queen ;  2.  To  Sir  William  Cecil.  With  three  maps,  of 
London,  Middlesex,  and  Westminster. 

At  the  end  Norden  acknowledges  the  help  which  he  had  received  from  Mr. 
William  Waade,  one  of  the  Clerks  of  the  Privy  Council.  The  title  is  engraved  by 
Pieter  Vanden  Keere.  There  is  no  place  or  printer's  name.  See  Herbert's  edition 
of  Ames,  pp.  1722-23. 

NORRIS,  Sir  John.  Newes  from  Brest.  A  Diurnal  of  al  that 
Sir  lohn  Norreis  hath  doone  since  his  last  ariuall  in  Britaine.  Also 
of  the  taking  in  of  the  forte  by  Croyzon,  and  the  names  of  such  Cap- 
taines,  gentlemen  and  others  that  were  slaine  and  hurte  in  his  Seruice. 
1594.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Peter  Short,  for  Thomas  Millington, 
and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  slioppe  vnder  S.  Peters  Church  in  Cornliill. 
1 594.    4to.     Tlie  edges  uncut.    Black  letter. 

Seven  leaves. 

NORTH,  Francis  Dudley,  Fourth  Lord.  Observations  and 
Advices  OEconomical.  Infelix  nimis  ciijus  domicilio  ignavia  adhceret. 
[Quotation  from  Luke  8,  16.]  London,  Printed  by  T.  R.  for  John 
Martyn  Printer  to  the  Royal  Society,  at  the  sign  of  t/ie  Bell  without 
Temple-Bar.    1669.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — K  7  in  eights,  title  on  A  2. 

The  preface  to  this  book  is  reprinted  in  the  privately  printed  volume  of  "  Pre- 
faces," 1874.  The  present  copy  has  belonged  to  Dr.  Lort,  Mr.  Brand,  Mr.  Heber, 
and  Dr.  Bliss. 

NORTHAMPTON,  Henry  Howard,  Earl  of.  A  defensatiue 
against  the  poyson  of  supposed  Prophesies  :  Not  hitherto  confuted  by 
the  penne  of  any  man,  which  being  grounded,  eyther  vppon  the  war- 
rant and  authority  of  olde  paynted  bookes,  expositions  of  Dreames, 
Oracles,  Reuelations,  Inuocations  of  damned  spirites,  Judicialles  of 
Astrologie,  or  any  other  kinde  of  pretended  knowledge  whatsoeuer, 
Dc  futuris  contingentibus  :  haue  beene  causes  of  great  disorder  in  the 
common  wealth,  and  cheefely  among  the  simple  and  vnlearned  people  : 
very  needefuU  to  be  published  at  this  time,  considering  the  late  offence 
which  grew  by  most  palpable  and  grosse  errours  in  Astrology.  At 
London  Printed  by  lohn  Cliarleiuood,  Printer  to  the  right  Honourable 
Earle  of  A  rundell     1583.    4to. 


1046  NOR  THBR  0  OKE—NOR  TON. 

Title,  I  leaf;  dedication  to  Sir  Francis  Walsingham,  8  leaves  ;  to  the  reader,  i 
leaf ;  A — Rr  in  fours,  no  Z. 

A  fine  clean  copy  in  the  original  vellum  cover. 

NORTHBROOKE,  JOIIN.  Spiritus  est  vicarius  Christ!  in  terra. 
A  Treatise  wherein  Dicing,  Dauncing,  Vaine  playes  or  Enterluds  with 
other  idle  pastimes  &c.  commonly  vsed  on  the  Sabboth  day,  are  re- 
proued  by  the  Authoritie  of  the  word  of  God  and  auntient  writers. 
Made  Dialoguewise  by  lohn  Northbrooke  Minister  and  Preacher  of 
the  word  of  God.  [Quotation  from  Cicero  de  officiis,  lib.  i.]  At 
London  Imprinted  by  H.  Bynneman,  for  George  By  shop.  [i577-]  4to. 
Black  letter.    R. 

A,  4  leaves  ;  a,  3  leaves  ;  B— U  2  in  fours. 

Dedicated  by  the  author  "To  the  Right  Worshipfull,  Sir  lohn  Yong  Knight, 
his  singular  good  friend."  Northbrooke  seems  at  this  time  to  have  been  resident 
at  Bristol.  The  address  to  the  reader  contains  some  curious  references  to  popular 
amusements  and  games. 

A  Treatise  wherein  Dicing,  Dancing,  Vaine  plaies  or  Enter- 

ludes are  reprooued Imprinted  at  London  by  Thomas 

Dawson,  for  George  Biskoppc.    Anno.  IS79-    4to.    Black  letter. 

A,  4  leaves ;  a,  4  leaves ;  B— T  in  fours. 

NORTHUMBERLAND,  Duke  of.  Joannis  Northumbrise  nuper 
Ducis,  in  Angha :  quum  ad  supplicium  productus  esset,  Oratio. 
Colonics  apiid  Jasparem  Gennepmim.    1553.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Six  leaves. 

NORTHUMBERLAND,  Henry  Algernon  Percy,  Fifth 
Earl  of.  The  Regulations  and  Establishment  of  the  Houshold  of 
Henry  Algernon  Percy  ....  at  his  Castles  of  Wresill  and  Lekin- 
field  in  Yorkshire.  Begun  Anno  Domini.  M.D.XH.  London  Printed 
M.DCC.LXVIII.    8vo.    R.  M. 

Pp.  i.-xxvi.,  including  title  and  half-title;  pp.  i.-x.,  "  Advertisement,"  &c. ;  pp. 
1-464,  and  2  leaves  of  index. 

Edited  and  privately  printed  by  Bishop  Percy. 

The  only  difference  between  this  copy  and  that  next  described  consists  in  the 
title-page.  Very  few  copies  have  the  earlier  date.  In  some  of  the  later  copies  one 
or  two  of  the  misprints  appear  to  have  been  detected  at  press  and  rectified. 

The  Regulations  and  Establishment  of  the  Household  of 


Henry  Algernon  Percy.    London  Printed.  M.DCC.LXX.    8vo.     R.  M. 
Pp.  xxviii. -^x.-f-464,  besides  4  pp.  of  index  and  errata,  &c. 

NORTON,  Humphrey.  New-England's  Ensigne :  It  being  the 
Account  of  Cruelty,  the  Professors  Pride,  and  the  Articles  of  their 
Faith ;  Signified  in  Characters  written  in  blood,  wickedly  begun,  bar- 


NOR  TON.  1047 

barously  continued,  and  inhumanly  finished  (so  far  as  they  have  gone) 
by  tlie  present  power  of  darkness  possest  in  the  Priests  and  Rulers  in 
New  England,  v/ith  the  Dutch  also  inhabiting  the  same  Land  .... 
This  being  an  Account  of  the  SuiTerings  sustained  by  us  in  New- 
England  (with  the  Dutch),  the  most  part  of  it  in  these  two  last  yeers, 
1657,  1658.  With  a  Letter  to  lohn  Indicot,  and  lohn  Norton,  Governor 
and  chief  Priest  of  Boston,  and  another  to  the  town  of  Boston.  Also, 
the  several  late  Conditions  of  a  friend  upon  Road-Iland  ....  Written 
at  Sea,  by  us  whom  the  Wicked  in  scorn  calls  Quakers,  in  the  second 
month  of  the  Yeer  1659.  This  being  a  Confirmation  of  so  much  as 
Francis  Howgill  truly  published  in  his  Book  titled,  the  Popish  Inquisi- 
tion newly  erected  in  Neiv  England,  &c.  London,  Printed  by  T.  L.  for 
G.  Calvert  ....   1659.    4to. 

A — Q  2  in  fours. 

In  Smith's  catalogue  of  Friend's  books,  it  is  pointed  out  that  John  Rous  and 
John  Copeland  were  joint  authors  with  Norton  in  this  work. 

NORTON,  John.  The  Heart  of  New-England  Rent  at  the  Blas- 
phemies of  the  present  Generation.  Or  a  brief  Tractate,  concerning 
the  Doctrine  of  the  Quakers,  Demonstrating  the  destructive  nature 
thereof,  to  Religion,  the  Churches,  and  the  State  ;  with  consideration  of 
the  Remedy  against  it.  Occasional  Satisfaction  to  Objections,  and 
Confirmation  of  the  contrary  Truth.  By  John  Norton,  Teacher  of  the 
Church  of  Christ  at  Boston  .  .  .  [Quotation  from  Revel.  2.  2.]  London, 
Printed  by  J.  H.  for  Johii  Allen  at  the  Rising-Sunne  in  St.  Pauls 
Church-yard.    1660.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Title  and  contents,  2  leaves  ;  B — F  in  eights  ;  f,  8  leaves  ;  G,  2  leaves. 

NORTON,  Thomas.  To  the  Queues  Maiesties  poore  deceyued 
Subiectes  of  the  North  Countrey,  drawen  into  rebellion  by  the  Earles 
of  Northumberland  and  Westmerland.  Written  by  Thomas  Norton. 
Seen  and  allowed  according  to  the  Queues  Iniunctions.  [Colophon.] 
Imprinted  at  London,  by  Henrie  Bynneman,for  Lucas  Harrison.  Anno 
Domini.    1569.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter, 

A — G  in  fours. 

This  is  the  first  edition,  and  is  of  the  greatest  rarit>'. 

To  the  Queues  Maiesties  poore  deceiued  Subiectes  of  the 

North  Countrey And  newly  perused  and  encreased.     Seen 

and  allowed  according  to  the  Queenes  Iniunctions.  [Colophon.]  Im- 
printed at  London,  by  Henrie  Bynneman,  for  Lucas  Harrison.  Anno 
Domini.  1569.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

A — D  4  in  eights.     There  are  three  editions  of  this  tract. 


A  warning  against  the  dangerous  practises  of  Papistes,  and 

specially  the  parteners  of  the  late  Rebellion.    Gathered  out  of  the 


1048  NOR  TON— NOR  WICH. 

common  feare  and  speche  of  good  subiectes.    Written  by  Thomas 
Norton,  and  newly  perused  and  encreasced.     Vox popnli  Dei,  vox  Dei  est. 
Seen  and  allowed  ....  [Colophon.]   Imprinted  at  London  by  lohn  Daye, 
dzvelling  oner  Aldersgate.    [«.</.]    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 
A— O  in  fours,  and  the  title-page. 

NORTON,  Thomas.  A  Bull  graunted  by  the  Pope  to  Doctor 
Harding  &  other,  by  reconcilement  and  assoyling  of  English  Papistes, 
to  vndermyne  faith  and  allegeance  to  the  Quene.  With  a  true  decla- 
ration of  the  intention  and  frutes  thereof,  and  a  warning  of  perils 
therby  imminent,  not  to  be  neglected.  Imprinted  at  London  by  lohn 
Daye  dwelling  oner  Aldersgate.    [1570.]    Sm.  8vo. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

A  disclosing  of  the  great  Bull,  and  certain  calues  that  he  hath 

gotten,  and  specially  the  Monster  Bull  that  roared  at  my  Lord  Byshops 

gate.     Imprinted  at  Londoti  by  lohn  Daye  dwelling  oner  Aldersgate. 

Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

An  addition  declaratorie  to  the  Bulks,  with  a  searching  of 

the  Maze.  Seen  and  allowed.  Imprinted  at  London  by  lohn  Daye 
dwelling  oner  Aldersgate.    [1570.]    Sm.  8vo. 

A — B  in  fours. 

NORWICH.    A  Compleat  History  of  the  Famous  City  of  Norwich. 

From  the  Earliest  Account,  to  this  present  Year  1728.    Shewing  The 

Situation,  Manufactures,  Churches To  which  is  annex'd,  An 

Exact  Map  of  the  City The  Whole  being  the  most  Useful  and 

Authentick  Collection  of  any  Extant :  Published  at  the  Request  of 

several  Ingenious  Gentlemen,   Citizens,  and    other  Curious  Persons. 

Norwich:   Printed  and  sold  by    William   Chase  in  the  Cockey  Lane, 

1728.    8vo. 

A — E  3  in  fours,  besides  the  title  and  a  folding  plan. 

An  Essay  on  the  Antiquity  of  the  Castel  of  Norwich,  its 

Founder  and  Governors  from  the  Kings  of  the  East  Angles  down  to 
Modern  Times.  Norwich :  Printed  and  Sold  by  Henry  Cross-grove. 
1728.    8vo.     TJie  edges  uncut. 

A — C  4  in  eights. 


Contemporary  Depositions  respecting  an  Affray  at  Norwich 

in  the  Year  1583.  In  which  Queen  Elizabeth's  Company  of  Players, 
then  acting  at  the  Red  Lion  Inn,  were  involved.  Edited  [from  a  MS.] 
by  J.  O.  Halliwell.    London,  1864.    Sm.  8vo. 

Twenty-five  copies  printed,  of  which  only  ten  were  preserved. 


NO  SEGA  Y—NO  VELLA.  1049 

NOSEGAY.    A  Nose-Gay  for  the  House  of  Commons.    Made  up 
of  the  Stincking  Flowers  of  their  Seven  yeares  labours,  gathered  out 
of  the  Garden  of  their  New  Reformation  ....  By  Mercurius  Melan- 
cholius.    Printed  at  tlie  signe  of ,  Yoic  may  goe  looke.    1648.    4to. 
Four  leaves.     In  verse  and  prose. 

NOSTRADAMUS,  Jean  de.  Les  vies  des  plvs  celebres  et 
anciens  Poetes  Provensavx,  qvi  ont  floury  du  temps  des  Comtes  de 
Prouence.  Recueillies  des  Oeuures  de  diuers  Autheurs  nommez  en  la 
page  suyuante,  qui  les  ont  escrites,  &  redigees  premierement  en  langue 
Prouensale,  &  depuis  mises  en  langue  Frangoyse  par  lehan  de  nostre 
Dame  Procureur  en  la  cour  de  Parlement  de  Prouence.  Par  lesquelles 
est  monstr^e  I'anciennet^  de  plusieurs  Nobles  maisons  tant  de  Prouence, 
Languedoc,  France,  que  d'ltalie  &  d'ailleurs.  A  Lyon,  Pour  Alexandre 
Marsilij.    M.D.LXXV.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — R  in  eights,  the  last  leaf  blank,  and  the  last  but  one  bearing  only  the  colo- 
phon, "  A  Lyon,  Par  Basile  Bongnet.    M.D.LXXV." 

NOTITIA  vtraqve  cvm  Orientis  tvm  Occidentis  vltra  Arcadii 
Honoriiqve  Caesarvm  tempora,  illustre  uetustatis  monumentum,  im6 

thesaurus  prorsum  incomparabilis [Colophon.]    Basileae  apvd 

H.  Frobenivm Anno  M.D.LLL.    Folio.     Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  a — r  in  sixes,  except  p,  which  has  only  4 
leaves.    The  printer's  device  on  the  last  leaf. 

NOTTINGHAM,  Earl  of.  The  Royal  Entertainement  of  the 
Right  Honourable  the  Earle  of  Nottingham,  sent  Ambassador  from 
his  Maiestie  to  the  King  of  Spaine.  Ljnprinted  at  London  by  Valentine 
Sims,  for  William  Ferbrand,  and  arc  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Popes- 
head  Alley.    1605.    4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

A — D  2  in  fours,  title  on  A  2. 

The  anonymous  writer  of  this  narrative  says,  in  his  address  to  the  reader:  "  I 
am  a  better  Souldier  then  a  Scholler,  therefore  expect  no  eloquence  or  refined 
speach,  I  abhorre  not  the  English  I  was  borne  to,  neither  will  I  go  about  to  plucke 
from  the  Inkhorne  any  solemne  Paraphrases."  He  tells  us  that  he  was  a  follower 
of  the  Earl  throughout  his  journey,  and  wrote  down  the  present  account  to  beguile 
the  spare  time  both  on  land  and  on  shipboard. 

NOUVEAU  TRAITE  de  Diplomatique,  ou  I'on  examine  les  Fon- 
demens  de  cet  Art :  on  etablit  des  Regies  sur  le  discernement  des  Titres, 
et  Ton  expose  historiquement  les  Caracteres  des  Bulles  Pontificales  et 
des  Diplomes  donnas  en  chaque  Siecle,  par  deux  Religieux  Benedictins. 
[C.  F.  Toustain  et  D.  Tassin.]    Paris  1750.    5  vols.    4to. 

NOVELLA.  Nouella. 

War  jemandtz  der  new  miir  begart 
Der  wirt  in  disem  biichlin  gvvart. 
6  n 


loso  NOVELLE-NOVUS. 

Er  wirt  horen  grosz  obenthiir/ 

Die  do  kutzlich  ist  gangcn  fiir. 

[O.  0.  0.  y.]    4to.     Woodcuts.    O.  M. 

A — C  in  fours  ;  D,  6  leaves. 

A  satire  in  verse  against  T.  Murner,  the  violent  opponent  of  Luther. 

[NOVELLE  TRE.]  Alia  valorosa  signora  Madonna  B.  A.  C.  C.  C. 
Pia  de  gli  Obici.  De  la  Ingratitvdine  Novella.  [Second  title.]  A 
Monsignore  Messer  Paolo,  Francesco,  Palavicino.  Delia  Avaritia  de 
Prencipi  Modern!.  [Third  title.]  A  Monsignore  Messer  Hercole 
Fregoso  Novella  della  Eloqvenza.  [Sens'  alcana  data.]   Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A— D  in  fours  ;  A — C  in  fours  ;  A— E  in  fours.  The  last  leaf  bears  the  errata 
to  the  three  pieces. 

M.  Brunet  gives  1550  as  the  probable  date  of  this  rare  volume.  On  the  title  to 
the  first  novel  is  a  woodcut  with  a  monogram,  which  is  reproduced  by  Nagler, 
"  Monogr.  Lex.,"  vol.  iv..  No.  1527,  from  a  book  dated  1532.  He  is,  however, 
unable  to  explain  its  signification. 

NOVUS  ORBIS.  Novus  orbis  Regionvm  ac  Insvlarvmveteribvs  in- 
cognitarvm  una  cum  tabula  cosmographica,  &  aliquot  alijs  consimilis 
argumenti  libellis,  quorum  omnium  catalogus  sequenti  patebit  pagina 

Adiecta  est  hvic  postremae  editioni  Nauigatio  Caroli  Czesaris 

auspicio  in  comitijs  Augustanis  instituta.  Basikae  apvd  lo.  Hervagiuvi 
mense  tnartio  anno  M.  D.  XXX  VII.    Folio. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  24  leaves  ;  a — Dd  in  sixes,  except  Dd,  which  has  8 
leaves. 

Following  the  eighteenth  leaf  of  preliminaiy  matter  is  a  large  folding  woodcut 
map  of  the  world,  in  two  sheets,  headed,  "  Typvs  cosmographicvs  vniversalis."  This 
appears  to  be  a  map  of  extreme  rarity.  It  is  not  mentioned  in  the  collation  given 
in  Stevens's  "  Nuggets,"  and  is  very  seldom  found  in  the  book. 

'Novus  Orbis  regionum  ac  insularum  veteribus  incognitarum 

una  cum  tabula  cosmigraphica  ....  nunc  novisnavigationibusauctus. 
Adiecta  est  huic  postremse  Editioni  Navigatio  Caroli  CjEsaris  auspicio 
in  comitiis  Augustanis  instituta.  BasilecB  apiid  Jo.  Hervagium  15 55- 
Folio. 

Die  New  welt,  der  landschaften  vnnd  Insulen,  so  bis  hie  her 

alien  Altweltbeschrybern  vnbekant/  Jungst  aber  von  den  Portugalesern 
vnnd  Hispaniern  im  Nidergenglichen  Meer  herfunden.  Sambt  den 
sitten  vnnd  gebreuchen  der  Inwonenden  volcker.  Audi  was  Gutter 
oder  Waren  man  bey  inen  funden/  vnd  inn  vnsere  Landt  bracht  hab. 
Do  bey  findt  man  auch  hie  den  vrsprung  vnd  altherkummen  der 
Furnembsten  Gwaltigsten  Volcker  der  Altbekanten  Welt/  als  do  seind 
die  Tartern/  Moscouiten/  Reussen/  Preussen/  Hungern,  Sschlafen.  etc. 


NOVUS—NUG^.  1051 

....  Gedrucht  zii  Straszbtirg  durcliGeorgen  VlricJier  von  Andla  .... 
An.  M.D.XXXIIII.    Folio. 

Title  and  preface,  6  leaves  ;  a — z  and  A — T  in  sixes. 

NOVUS  ORBIS.  Die  nieuwe  weerelt  der  Landtschappen  ende 
Eylanden/  die  tot  hier  toe  alien  ouden  weerelt  bescrijuere  onbekent 
geweest  sijn.  Maer  nv  onlancx  vande  Poortugaloiseren  eii  Hispaniere, 
inder  nedergankelijcke  zee  geuonde  Midtsgaders  den  zeeden,  manieren, 
ghewoonten  ende  vsantien  der  inwoonenden  volken.  Oock  wat  goeden 
ende  waeren,  men  by  henlieden  gheuonden,  ende  in  onse  landen  ghe- 
bracht  heeft  oft  hebben,  daer  by  vintmen  oock  den  oorspronck  en 
ouder  hercomen,  der  vermaersten,  machtichsten,  en  geweldichste 
volcken,  der  ouder  bekender  weerelt,  ghelijck  daer  sijn  die  Tartaren, 
Muscouite,  Ruyssen,  Pruyssen,  Hongeren,  Slauen,  etc.  Naet  wt  wijsen 
ende  inhout  des  omghekerden   blats.    Gliepritit  Thantwerpen  in  die 

Cammerstrate Anno  M.D.LXIII.    Folio. 

Title  and  preface,  4  leaves  ;  A— YYY  5  in  sixes. 

Novus  Orbis,  id  est,  Navigationes  primse  in  Americam  :  qui- 

bus  adjunximus  Gasparis  Varrerii  discvrsum  super  Ophyra  Regione. 
Roterodami,  Apiid  yoannem  Leonardi  Berewovt.    161 6.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-570.  Second  title  for  Varrerius,  and  41 
leaves  not  numbered. 

NOW  OR  NEVER :  Or,  A  New  Parliament  of  Women  Assam- 

bled  and  Met  together  near  the  Popes-Head  in  Moor-fields 

With  their  Declaration,  Articles,  Rules,  Laws,  Orders,  and  Proposals 

to  all  London-Prentices,  Young-men,  Batchelours,  &c Likewise, 

Three  excellent  Speeches  made  in  this  great  Assembly  by  the  City- 
Virgins  ....  whereunto  is  annexed.  The  fair  Maid  of  the  Wests  Love- 
Sonnet  ....  London,  Printed  for  George  Hortoji,  1656.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

NOYES,  James.    The  Temple  measured  :  or,  A  brief  Survey  of 
the  Temple  mystical,  Which  is  the  Instituted  Church  of  Christ  .... 
By  James  Noyes  Teacher  of  the  Church  at  Newbery  in  New  England. 
London:  Printed  for  Edmund  Paxton  ....   1647.    4to. 
A,  3  leaves  ;  B — N  in  fours. 

NUG.(E  ANTIQUiE  :  Being  a  miscellaneous  Collection  of  Original 

Papers  in  prose  and  verse Newly  arranged,  with  illustrative 

Notes,  by  Thomas  Park.  London 1804.    2  vols.   8vo.   Thick  paper. 

These  volumes  contain  the  text  of  what  are  usually  known  as  the  Harington 
MSS.,  and  include  letters,  poems,  and  other  literary  documents  of  the  highest 
interest  and  importance,  written  by  the  Harington  family  and  others  during  the 
reigns  of  Henry  VIII.  and  his  immediate  successors. 


,o52  NUGjE— NUNEZ. 

NUGvE  POETICS.  Select  Pieces  of  Old  English  Popular  Poetry 
illustrating  the  Manners  and  Arts  of  the  Fifteenth  Century.  Edited 
by  J.  O.  Halliwell  .  .  .  London.     1844.    8vo. 

Only  100  copies  printed ;  the  present  was  one  of  the  six  taken  off  on  thick 
paper. 

NUGyE  VENALES,  sive  Thesaurus  ridendi  at  jocandi.  Ad  Gra- 
vissimos  Severissimosque  Viros,  Patres  Melancholicorum  Conscriptos. 
Anno  1689.    Prostant  apud  Nemincm  ;  scd  tamen  Ubiqiie.    Sm.  8vo. 

Title  and  preface,  2  leaves  ;  A— O  4  in  eights  ;  a  frontispiece  to  face  the  title 
and  a  plate  at  p.  23  ;  also  a  title,  "  Publius  Porcius  Poeta,"  to  be  inserted  at  p.  241. 

NUNEZ,  Alvar.  La  relacion  y  comentarios  del  gouernador 
Aluar  nufiez  cabe^a  de  vaca,  de  lo  acaescido  en  las  dos  jornadas  que 
hizo  a  las  Indias [Colophon.]  Imprcsso  en  V alladolid,  por  Fran- 
cesco fernandes  de  Cordoita.  Atio  de  mil y  quinientos y  cinquenta y  cinco 
aflos.    4to.    Black  letter.    R.  M. 

Title  and  folios  ii.-lvi.  A  second  title  to  the  "  Comentarios"  and  the  Prohemio, 
3  leaves  ;  the  fourth  page  of  the  Prohemio  is  numbered  folio  Ivii.  ;  the  book  ends 
on  folio  cxliiii.,  which  is  wrongly  numbered  ckiiii.,  making  in  all  146  leaves. 

NUNEZ,  HernaN.  Refranes,  o  Proverbios  en  Romance,  qve 
nvevamente  coUigio  y  glosso  el  Comendador  Hernan  Nunez,  Professor 
eminetissimo  de  Rhetorica,  y  Griego,  en  Salamanca.  Van  pvestos  por 
la  orden  del  A  b  c  .  .  .  .  Van  tambien  aqvi  afiadidas  vnas  coplas, 
hechas  a  su  muerte.  En  Salamanca,  En  casa  de  Juan  de  Canoua.  1555. 
Folio.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  A— S  in  eights,  except  R,  which  has  only  6 
leaves. 

The  title  is  within  a  woodcut  border.  On  folio  132  is  a  new  title,  "  Epicedio  de 
Valerio  Francisco  Romero,  en  la  muerte  del  Maestro  Hernan  Nunez." 

"  Primera  edicion  publicada  por  el  maestro  Fr.  Luis  de  Leon,  de  quien  es  el 
erudito  prdlogo  que  lleua.  Esta  impresion  es  tan  dificil  de  encontrar,  que  el  editor 
de  la  de  1804  alega  como  principal  motivo  para  reproducir  la  obra  el  haberse  hecho 
rarisima  la  que  se  imprimid  en  Salamanca  el  ano  de  1555 /or  Juan  de  Canoua: 
verdad  es  que  en  la  licencia  de  la  de  1578,  ya  dice  no  se  encontraban  ejemplares." — 
Salvd. 

Refranes  o  proverbios  en  romance,  qve  coligio,  y  glosso  el 

Comendador  Hernan  Nuiiez Y  la  filosofia  wlgar  de  Jvan  de  Mai 

Lara,  en  mil  refranes  glossados,  que  son  todos  los  que  hasta  aora  en 
Castellano  andan  impresses.  Van  ivntamente  las  qvatro  cartas  de 
Blasco  de  Garay,  hechas  en  refranes,  para  enseiiar  el  vso  dellos.  Ano 
16 1 9.    En  Madrid  por  Juan  de  la  Ciiesta.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves ;  folios  1-399. 

NUNEZ  DE  LA  PENA,  Don  Juan.  Conqvista  y  Antigvedades 
de  las  Islas  de  la  gran  Canaria,  y  sv  descripcion.    Con  mvchas  adver- 


NUREMBERG~0.,R.  1053 

tencias  de  sus  Priuilegios,  Conquistadores,  Pobladores,  y  otras  particu- 

laridades  en  la  muy  poderosa  Isla  de  Thenerife Aflo  1676.   E71 

Madrid:  En  la  Imprenta  Real.    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  pp.  1-560  ;  "  Indice,"  2  leaves. 

NUREMBERG.  Patricij  Reipublica:  Numberg:  Das  ist.  83.  Uh- 
ralte,  Adeliche  Geschlecht,  Daraus  der  Rath  von  300  Jar  hero  envolt, 
vnd  noch  das  Regimet  fiiern  zusam  gebracht  vnd  an  Tag  geben. 
Folio.    BR.  M. 

MS.  on  vellum.  This  sumptuous  volume  comprises  eighty-three  richly  coloured 
drawings  of  full  length  representative  figures  of  the  different  patrician  families  of 
Nuremberg,  with  the  coat  of  arms  belonging  to  each.  The  text  gives  an  account  of 
the  public  offices  held  by  members  of  the  different  families  from  a.d.  1198  to  1620. 
The  MS.  was  doubtless  compiled,  and  the  drawings  e.\ecuted,  soon  after  the  latter 
date. 

Geschlecht    Buch    desz    Heiligen    Reichs    Stat    Nurnberg 

Darinen  alle  alte  vnd  neue  Adeliche  Geschlecht  daraus  der  Rath  von 
300  Jaren  hero  erwolth  wordn  hierin  zusam  gebracht  Anno  1610. 
Folio.    BR.  M. 

Engraved  title  and  eighty-two  plates. 

The  engravings  in  this  volume  are  etchings  on  iron  plates.  The  figures  repre- 
sented are  similar  to  the  drawings  contained  in  the  preceding  MS. 


o. 

O  MARVELLOUS  TIDINGS. 

O  Maruelous  tydynges  both  Wonders  Old  and  New 
The  Deuyll  is  endited  yf  many  mens  wordes  be  tru. 

[Colophon.]    Printed  by  Cornells  Woltrop  dwcllyng  at  saynt  Antonies. 

[Adout  i^yo.]    A  broadside.    Black  letter. 

In  verse.  Printed  with  type  of  foreign  appearance  in  two  columns,  with  four  small 
woodcuts  at  the  head. 

Reprinted,  with  a  facsimile  of  one  of  the  cuts,  in  "Ancient  Ballads,"  &c.,  1867. 
The  type  used  is  very  rude,  and  the  orthography  of  some  words  unusual.  It  is 
probable  that  Woltrop,  whose  name  is  not  otherwise  known,  was  an  Antiverp 
printer. 

O.,  R.  Mans  Mortalitie  :  or,  a  Treatise  Wherein  t'is  proved,  both 
Theologically  and  Philosophically,  that  whole  Man  (as  a  rationall 
Creature)  is  a  Compound  wholly  mortall,  contrary  to  that  common 
distinction  of  Soule  and  Body  :  And  that  the  present  going  of  the 
Soule  into  Heaven  or  Hell  is  a  meer  Fiction  :  And  that  at  the  Resur- 
rection is  the  beginning  of  our  immortality,  and  then  Actuall  Con- 


1054  OATES—OBRES. 

demnation,  and  Salvation,  and   not   before By  R.[ichard] 

0.[verton  ?]    Amsterdam,  Printed  by  Jolin  Canne.    Anno  Doni.  1644. 

4to. 

A — F  in  fours,  besides  a  frontispiece  by  W.  Bentley. 

The  frontispiece  represents  a  skeleton,  with  one  arm  resting  on  a  coffin,  and 
with  the  other  holding  a  spade.  At  the  top  is,  "Sum  quod  eris.  Fui  quod  es  ;" 
and  in  the  left-hand  corner  is  a  sun-dial,  with  the  motto  beneath  it,  "  Vt  Hora  sic 
Fvgiat  vita."  Under  the  engraving  are  six  verses.  The  book  itself  is  entirely  in 
prose,  but  it  is  preceded  by  two  pieces  of  commendatory  verse  by  N.  C.  and  S.  R. 

GATES,  Titus.    Gates  his  Degrees.    Being  advanced  to  y"^  Pillory, 

Debased  to  y'  Carte and  expected  by  his  old  friend  to  higher 

preferment.  Sold  by  R.  Palmer  against  Somerset  House.  [May  18, 
1685.]    A  broadside. 

With  a  very  curious  engraving.     In  verse. 

See  Mr.  Stephens's  "Catalogue  of  Prints  and  Drawings  in  the  British  Museum," 
vol.  i.,  p.  701. 

GATH.  The  Gthe  of  euerie  Free  man,  of  the  City  of  London. 
Printed  at  London  by  Hugh  Singleton. 

A  small  quarto  broadside,  surmounted  by  a  woodcut  of  the  arms  of  the  City. 

Reprinted  in  "  Anc.  Ballads,"  &c.,  1867.  This  formula  was  printed  from  time 
to  time.  The  present  has  the  appearance  of  being  a  reissue,  about  1600,  of  an 
edition  printed  by  Singleton,  the  City  typographer,  about  1560  or  1570,  with  the 
original  colophon  retained. 

[GBEILH,  F.  d'.]  La  vie  du  roy  Almansor  ecrite  par  le  vertueux 
capitaine  Aly  Aben^ufian.  Amsterdam  chez  Daniel  Elsevier,  167 1. 
Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

OBRES  fetes  en  lahor  de  la  seraphica  senta  catherina  d'  sena  en 
lo  seu  sagrat  monestir  deles  monges  dela  insigne  ciutat  de  Valencia 
per  diuersos  trobadors  narrades  lo  dia  de  sent  miquel  del  any.  m.  d.  xi. 
Essent  iutges  lo  reuerent  frare  Balthasar  sorio  mestre  en  sacra  theo- 
logia  e  vicari  general  d'ls  frares  obseruants  del  orde  de  preycadors. 
E  lo  reuerent  senyor  canoge  fira  y  lo  noble  don  francisco  fenoUet. 
[The  last  leaf  ends  with  the  following  verses :] 

Mas  puix  tenim,  dauant  la  vista  nostra 

aquella  lum,  quels  eels  tots  illumina 

yauent  ja  vist,  cascuna  obra  vostra 

y  vist  tambe,  la  que  millor  se  mostra 

en  est  parer,  nostre  juhi  camina 

Que  puix  en  dir,  yen  bel  estil  auan9a 

als  altres  tots,  portant  gran  milloria 

en  lo  jutgar,  tenint  egual  balan§a 

jutjam  lo  pris,  que  de  ferrandis  sia. 
{Absque  nota.]    4to.    Ijlaci  letter.    R.  m. 


OCAMPO—O'DALY.  1055 

Twenty  leaves. 

On  the  title  is  a  small  woodcut  of  St.  Catherine,  with  nuns  kneeling  about  her. 
On  the  back  of  the  title  is  a  large  and  very  fine  wood  engraving,  in  which  the 
Blessed  Virgin  is  represented  seated  on  a  throne  with  the  holy  infant  in  her  arms. 
On  the  right  are  SS.  Eulalia  and  Catherine  of  Siena,  and  on  the  left  SS.  Dorothea 
and  Catherine  the  Virgin. 

OCAMPO,  Florian  de.  Los  quatro  libros  primeros  de  la  Cronica 
general  de  Espana  que  recopila  el  maestro  Florian  do  canpo  criado  y 
cronista  del  Emperador  Rey  nuestro  senor  por  mandado  de  su  ma- 
gestad  cesarea.  En  (^amora.  Aflo  1543.  [Colophon.]  Fjiero  impressos 
estos  quatro  libros  .  ...  en  ...  .  Zamora  por  ....  Juan  Picardo. 
.  .  .  .  Ano  ....  niillyqiiinientosyquarentaytresafios.  Folio.  Black 
letter. 

*— gg  S  '1  eights,  including  title  ;  a  sheet  "  &  "  between  z  and  aa. 
It  would  appear  from  Brunet  that  the  date  1544  was  on  the  title,  but  such  is  not 
the  case,  at  least  in  this  copy. 

OCHINUS,  B.  Bemardini  Ochini  Senensis  Dialog!  XXX.  in  duos 
libros  diuisi,  quorum  primus  est  de  Messia,  continetq,  dialogos  xviij. 
Secundus   est,  cum  de   rebus  varijs,  turn    potissimum   de  Trinitate. 

[Colophon.]    Basileae.  Per  Petrum  Pernam.    1563.    2  vols. 

Sm.  8vo. 

Vol.  i.  Pp.  1-440,  including  title.    Vol.  ii.  1-518,  followed  by  a  leaf  of  errata. 

O'CONOR,  C.  Rerum  Hibernicarum  Scriptores  Veteres.  Buck- 
inghamia:.  Excudebant  jf.  Seeley,  veneunt  apiid  T.  Payne.  1814-25-26. 
4  vols.    4to.    Large  paper.    GR.  M. 

Memoirs  of  the  Life  and  Writings  of  the  late  Charles  O'Conor, 

of  Belanagare,  Esq.  M.R.LA.    Dublin.  .  .  [1796.]    8vo.   Portrait.   R. 

This  copy  has  MS.  corrections  in  the  handwriting  of  the  author.  Between 
pp.  304-5  is  a  plate  of  McDermot's  Rock. 

O'DALY,  DoM.  DE  RoSARio.  Initivm,  Incrementa,  et  Exitvs 
Familia;  Geraldinorum  Desmonias  Comitum,  Palatinorum  Kyerrias  in 
Hybernia,  ac  persecutionis  haereticorum  descriptio.  Ex  nonnullis  frag- 
mentis  collecta,  ac  Latinitate  donata.  Per  Fratrem  Dominicvm  de 
Rosario  ODaly,  Ordinis  Praedicatorum,  S.  Theologiae  professorem,  in 
supremo  S.  Inquisitionis  Senatu  censorem,  in  Lusitaniae  Regnis  quon- 
dam Visitatorem  Generalem,  &  modo  Vicarium  Generalem,  ac  fundatore 
Conuentum  Hybernorum  eiusdem  Ordinis  in  Portugalia.  Vlyssippofte. 
Ex  Officiana  Craesbecckiana.    Anno  1655.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

Half-title,  title,  and  other  preliminaries,  41  leaves  ;  A — Dd  4  in  eights. 


ios6  ODES—OFFICIUM. 

ODES.  In  Catilinarias  Proditiones,  ac  Proditores  Domesticos, 
Odze  6.  OxonicB,  ex  Officina  Typographica  losephi  Bamesii,  Anno  1586. 
Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

Eight  leaves,  the  first  blank. 

From  Dr.  Bliss's  collection.  The  copy  in  the  British  Museum,  described  by 
Herbert  in  his  edition  of  Ames,  p.  1401,  differs  as  to  the  imprint  in  having  the 
words,  "  &  veneunt  in  Casmeterio  Paulino,  sub  signo  capitis  Tygurini  "  between  the 
printer's  name  and  the  date,  so  that  two  title-pages  must  have  been  printed  to  the 
tract. 

These  odes  were  composed  by  some  loyal  O.xonian  on  the  occasion  of  Babing- 
ton's  conspiracy.  On  the  back  of  the  title  is  a  latin  dedication  addressed  to  Dr. 
James  and  Dr.  Heton. 

ODES  and  Elogies  upon  Divine  &  Moral  Subjects.  London : 
Printed  for  Henry  Bomvicke  at  the  Red-Lion  in  St.  Paul's  Church- 
yard, 1698.    8vo. 

B— F  in  eights,  and  the  title-page. 

The  author  of  this  volume  is  unknown,  and  no  other  copy  of  it  has  been  met 
with.  From  some  lines  to  Edwards  on  his  "  Gangrsena,"  at  p.  76,  it  might  be 
inferred  that  these  poems  were  written  many  years  before  they  were  printed.  Of 
Glaucus,  a  poetaster,  the  writer  says  : — 

"  The  Muses  yet  he  does  not  quite  despise, 
Tom-Thumb  and  Balads  in  the  Streets  he  cries." 

CECUMENIUS.  CEcumenii  et  Arethae,  Expositiones  antiquse  ac 
valde  utiles  brevitatem  una  cum  perspicuitate  mirabilem,  ex  diversis 
Sanctorum  patrum  commentariis  in  Acta  Apostolorum  in  vii.  epistolas 
quse  Catholicae  dicuntur,  in  Pauli  omnes.  Veronce,  apud  Stcphanum  et 
fratres  Sabios.    1532.    Folio.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  12  leaves;  pp.  1-1014. 

OFFICE.  L'Office  de  la  Semaine  Sainte,  corrigd  de  nouveau  par 
le  commandement  du  Roy.    Paris.    \_s.  d."]    8vo. 

Louis  XlVth's  copy.  A  fine  example  of  old  French  bookbinding,  the  sides 
powdered  with  fleurs-de-lis  and  the  letter  L  surmounted  by  a  crown. 

OFFICIUM  Beatae  Mariae  Virginis  secundum  ordinem  humilia- 
torum.    Sm.  8vo. 

MS.  on  281  leaves  of  vellum,  of  the  Florentine  school,  of  the  latter  part  of  the 
fifteenth  century.     Size,  4|  by  31. 

This  beautiful  volume  contains  the  following  miniatures  :  P.  i.  The  Annun- 
ciation, within  a  border  of  jewels,  on  a  black  ground  ;  in  the  lower  margin  a  female 
head  in  cameo.  P.  2.  Initial  D.  The  Virgin  and  Child.  P.  33.  Initial  D.  An 
exquisite  figure  of  a  saint  with  a  palm  branch;  in  the  margin  beneath,  a  child 
sitting  on  the  ground,  with  orange  trees,  and  a  bird  in  a  cage.  P.  72.  The  Nativity, 
within  a  border  on  a  black  ground.  P.  y^.  The  disembowelling  of  a  martyr-bishop. 
P.  86.  The  Adoration  of  the  Magi,  within  a  rich  ornamental  border  ;  in  a  medallion 
beneath,  a  head  to  represent  the  First  Person  of  the  Trinity.     P.  87.  Initial  D. 


OF  FICIUM—0' FLAHERTY.  1057 

St.  John  Baptist.  P.  98.  The  Presentation  in  the  Temple.  P.  99.  Initial  D.  St. 
Benedict.  P.  1 10.  The  Flight  into  Eg>pt.  P.  in.  Initial  D.  Figure  of  St.  Jerome. 
P.  122.  Christ  disputing  with  the  doctors.  P.  123.  A  figure  of  St.  Peter  in  initial  D. 
P.  150.  The  Betrayal.  P.  151.  A  female  saint  in  initial  D.  P.  162.  The  Baptism 
of  Christ.  P.  163.  A  figure  of  King  David  in  initial  D.  P.  206.  The  Agony  in  the 
Garden.  P.  207.  Head  of  a  bishop  in  initial  C.  P.  242.  Christ  bearing  his  cross 
within  an  exquisite  ornamental  border.  P.  243.  A  martyr  with  a  cross  in  initial  D. 
P.  260.  The  Crucifixion,  with  St.  Mary  and  St.  John.  P.  261.  The  Descent  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  in  initial  D.  P.  274.  The  Tomb  of  Christ,  with  figures  of  the  Virgin 
and  St.  John,  within  an  exquisite  ornamental  border  ;  in  a  compartment  at  the  foot 
is  a  mountainous  landscape,  with  two  gazelles.  P.  27;.  Initial  letter  D.  A  child 
with  a  skull.  P.  286.  The  burial  of  the  Virgin,  the  bier  surrounded  by  the  twelve 
Apostles  ;  in  the  side  border  a  peacock  on  a  tree,  in  the  compartment  at  foot  an 
ape  in  the  foreground  of  a  river  landscape.  P.  396.  St.  Jerome  in  prayer,  with  an 
exquisite  landscape  background  ;  in  a  compartment  beneath  a  boy  seated  on  a 
water  griffin.  P.  397.  Initial  letter  K.  A  female  saint  reading.  P.  499.  Initial 
letter  O.  The  Saviour  in  prayer. 

On  the  last  leaf  is  an  indulgence  of  Pope  Sixtus  IV.,  dated  1480,  and  the  book 
was  probably  written  and  illuminated  about  this  date. 

OFFICIUM  beate  Marie  virginis  ad  usum  Romane  ecclesie.  [Colo- 
phon.] Explicit  officiuni  beate  Marie  virginis  cu\  multis  laiidibus  isf  de- 
uotissimis  orationibus.  Inipressum  Ludgiuii  expensis  Bonini  de  bononis 
dalmatini  Anno  domini.  Mcccc.lxxxxix.  die.  xx.  Martii.  8vo.  Wood- 
cuts.   O.  M. 

Brunet  quotes  this  edition,  vol.  iv.,  col.  168,  but  the  title  which  he  gives  differs 
from  this  copy.  It  is  probably  quoted  incorrectly  by  him,  as  the  year  and  day  of 
the  month  are  the  same,  and  the  copy  he  describes  has  the  same  number  of  leaves. 
The  first  twenty-four  leaves  are  without  signature,  and  then  follow  sigs.  A — T  in 
eights.  The  engravings  are  more  in  the  Italian  than  the  French  style.  Bonini  de 
Boninis  does  not  appear  to  have  printed  anj-thing  himself  later  than  1491,  when  we 
find  him  quoted  by  Panzer  as  the  printer  of  three  books  at  Brescia,  where  he  had 
been  established  as  a  printer  for  some  years.  He  printed  also  at  an  earlier  date  at 
Venice  and  Verona. 

O'FLAHERTY,  RODERIC.  Ogygia :  seu,  rerum  Hibernicarum 
chronologia.  Ex  Pervetustis  Monumentis  fideliter  inter  se  collatis  eruta, 
atque  e  Sacris  ac  Prophanis  Literis  primarum  Orbis  Gentium  tarn 
Genealogicis,  quam  Chronologicis  sufflaminata  praesidiis.  Liber  pri- 
mus. Ab  universali  Diluvio,  ad  annum  Virginei  partus  428.  In  tres 
Partes  distinctus.  Quarum,  Prima  OgygijE  Insula ;  seu  brevis  Trac- 
tatus  de  Hibernise  Insula,  primis  Incolis,  variis  Nominibus,  Dimen- 
sionibus,  Regibus,  Regumque  electionibus.  Secunda  Ogygiae  Extera  ; 
seu  Synchronismus,  in  quo  Hibernorum  tempora  pariter,  ac  genera- 
tiones  cum  Exteris  accurate  conferuntur.  Tertia  Ogygis  Domestica; 
seu  Rerum  Hibernicarum  plenior,  ac  fusior  dissertatio.  Quibus  accedit 
Regum  Hibernise  Christianorum  ab  anno  428  ad  annum  1022 ;  ali- 
orumque  eventuum  inde  ad  jam  regnantem  Carolum  2.  brevis  chrono- 
logica  tabula.    Deinde  Carmen  Chronographicum  summam  omnium  i 

6  I 


1058  OGIER—OGILBY. 

Diluvio  ad  presens  tempus  complectens.     Postrem6  Catalogus  Regum 

in  Britannia  Scotorum,  ex  Hibernia;Monumentis Lomiini,  Typis 

R.  Everingham,  .  .  .  .  1685.    4to.    BR.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves  ;  a— F  2  in  fours  and  B— Ttt  3  in  fours. 

OGIER.  Sensuyt  Ogier  Le  Dannois  Due  de  Danemarche :  qui 
fut  lug  des  douze  pers  de  Frace.  Leql  auec  le  secours  &  ayde  duRoy 
charlemaigne,  chassa  les  payens  hors  de  Rome  Et  remist  le  pape  en 
so  siege  Et  fut  l5g  teps  en  faerie  puis  reuint  Comma  vo®  pourres  lire 
cy  aps  en  ce  psent  liure  xxxiij.  [Colophon.]  Cy  finist  le  roinmant  in- 
titule Ogier  Ic  dannois  Noniicllement  Imprime  a  Paris  Par  la  veufue 
feu  Jehan  trcpperel  et  Jehan  iehannot.  Imprimeur  et  libraire  iure  de 
luniversite  de  paris.  Demoiirant  en  la  rue  neufue  Nostre  dame  a  len- 
seigne  de  lescu  de  France.    4to.    Black  letter.    Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

a,  6  leaves  ;  b,  c,  e,  g,  h,  k— m,  o— q,  s— u,  y,  z,  &,  B— D,  F— H  in  fours;  d,  f, 
i,  n,  r,  X,  A,  E,  in  eights.     There  are  neither  catchwords  nor  folios. 

L'histoire  d'Ogier  le  Dannoys  Dvc  de  Dannemarche  ;  qvi  fvt 

I'vn  des  douze  Pers  de  France,  Lequel  auec  layde  du  Roy  Charlemagne 
chassa  les  Payens  hors  de  Rome,  &  remist  le  Pape  en  son  siege.  Puis 
conquist  trois  terribles  Geans  Sarrazins  en  champ  de  bataille,  c'est 
assauoir  Brunamot  Roy  d'Egypte  deuant  Rome,  Bruhier  Soudan  de 
Babylonne  deuant  Laon,  &  lustamont  son  frere  deuat  Acre.  Et  apres 
fut  couronne  Roy  d'Angleterre  &  Roy  d'Acre,  aussi  conquist  la  cit^  de 
lerusalem  &  Babylonne,  et  plusieurs  autres  vaillances  fist  ledict  Ogier. 
Qui  en  fin  fut  long-temps  en  Faerie,  comme  vous  pourrez  lire  cy  apres. 
A  Lyon.    Par  Benoist  Rigavd.     1 579.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

a — z  and  A — G  in  eights. 

La  Chevalerie  Ogier  de  Danemarche  par  Raimbert  de  Paris, 

Poeme  du  xii'  siecle.    Paris.    1842.    2  vols.    8vo.    R.  M. 

OGILBY,  John.  The  Relation  of  His  Majestie's  Entertainment 
Passing  through  the  City  of  London  To  His  Coronation  :  with  a  de- 
scription of  the  Triumphal  Arches  and  Solemnity ;  By  John  Ogilby. 
London,  Printed  by  Tho.  Roycroft,  for  Rich.  Marriott,  in  St.  Dicnstones 
Church-Yard  Fleet-Street,  1661.    Folio. 

A — K,  2  leaves  each,  including  a  leaf  before  the  title  with  the  privilege. 

The  Entertainment  of  His  Most  Excellent  Majestie  Charles  II, 


in  His  Passage  through  the  City  of  London  to  his  Coronation  :  Con- 
taining an  exact  Accompt  of  the  whole  Solemnity ;  the  Triumphal 
Arches,  and  Cavalcade,  delineated  in  Sculpture;  the  Speeches  and  Im- 
presses illustrated  from  Antiquity.  To  these  is  added,  A  Brief  Narrative 
of  His  Majestie's  Solemn  Coronation:  with  His  Magnificent  Proceeding, 


OLDE—OLIVEROS.  1059 

and  Royal  Feast  in  Westminster-Hall.  By  John  Ogilby.  London, 
Printed  by  T/to :  Roycroft,  and  are  to  be  had  at  the  Authors  House  in 
Kings  Head  Court  within  Shoe-Lane,  JSIDCLXIL  Folio.  Large 
paper.    R.  M. 

Title-page  and  dedication,  2  leaves,  preceded  by  large  portrait  of  Charles  II. 
and  a  plate  of  the  royal  arms  ;  5  large  folding  plates  by  Hollar  ;  B — C,  2  leaves 
each  ;  D,  4  leaves  and  a  plate  ;  E,  4  leaves  and  2  plates  ;  F — G,  4  leaves  each  ; 
H,  4  leaves  and  a  plate  ;  I — P,  in  fours  ;  Q,  4  leaves  and  a  plate  ;  R^T  in  fours  ; 
\,  4  leaves  and  a  plate  ;  X  and  Y  in  fours  ;  Z,  3  leaves  ;  Aa,  4  leaves,  and  a  large 
folding  plate  ;  Bb — Dd  2  in  fours,  with  a  folding  plate.  A  portrait  of  Ogilby  and 
three  portraits  of  Charles  II.  are  inserted. 

OLDE,  John.  A  confession  of  the  most  auncient  and  true  christe 
catholike  olde  belefe,  accordyng  to  the  ordre  of  the  .  xii.  articles  of  our 
coiSon  Crede,  set  furthe  in  Englishe  to  the  gloiy  of  almightye  God, 
and  to  the  confirmacion  of  Christes  people  in  Christes  catholike  olde 
faith.  By  J.  O.  [Quotation  from  Psalm  116.  and  Romans  10.]  Lin- 
printed  in  Sothe'cvarke  by  Christophor  Truthal.  Cum  priuilegio  Regali. 
Ln  April.  \y:,6.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter,    o.  M. 

A — E  in  eights. 

The  place  and  printer's  name  are  alike  fictitious.  Indeed,  it  may  be  doubted  if 
even  the  writer  has  not  disguised  his  identity,  and  the  book  was  not  really  from  the 
pen  of  Bale,  and  from  the  Basle  press.  A  volume  published  under  the  name  of 
Olde,  in  1555,  bears  the  imprint  of  "  Waterford,"  but  Lowndes  says  that  the  types 
are  the  same  as  those  found  in  the  "  Confession." 

From  Mr.  Maskells  collection. 

OLDYS,  William.  The  British  Librarian  :  Exhibiting  a  Com- 
pendious Review  or  Abstract  of  the  most  Scarce,  Useful,  and  Valuable 

Books  in  all  Sciences,  as  well  in  Manuscript  as  in  Print London. 

1738.    Svo. 

Title,  I  leaf;  contents,  pp.  xii. ;  the  work,  pp.  1-402.  From  the  Rev.  Theodore 
Williams's  library'. 

OLIVEROS  DE  CASTILLA.  La  historia  de  los  nobles  caual- 
leros  Oliueros  de  Castilla  :  lArtus  dalgarbe.  [This  title  is  beneath  a 
large  woodcut.]  [Colophon.]  Acabase  la  famosa  hystoria  de  los  inuy 
esfor^ados  cauall'os  oliuet'os  d'  castilla  %  artus  dalgarue.  La  qual  sc 
eniprimio  en  la  muy  noble  1  muy  leal  ciudad  d'Seuilla :  por  Juan  croin- 
berger.  Ailo  del seiior  d'  mil  z  quinientos y  treynta y  cinco  Alios.  Folio. 
Black  letter.    Woodcuts. 

A  most  beautiful  copy,  with  rough  edges,  in  the  original  binding,  of  an  edition 
hitherto  undescribed.  It  consists  of  thirty-four  leaves,  including  the  tide.  It  is 
bound  in  the  same  volume  with  the  "  Palmerin  d'Oliva." 

Neither  Salvd  nor  Gallardo  mention  any  edition  between  those  of  Seville,  15 10, 
and  Alcala,  1604,  though  Brunet  cites  editions  at  Seville,  1544,  and  at  Burgos,  1554. 
This  edition  of  1535  appears  to  have  escaped  the  researches  of  all  bibliographers, 
and  is  probably  unique. 


io6o  OLIVEROS—O'MOLLOY. 

OLIVEROS  DE  CASTILLA.    Historia  de  los  nobles  cavalleros 
Oliveros  de  Castilla  y  Artus  de  Algarve.    Cordoba  {_s.  a.']    4to. 

In  disem  buch  werde  begriffen  vn  gefunde  zwo  wunderbar- 


licher  hystorien  gantz  lieblich  zelesen,  ouch  dienen  zefil  erfarnysz.  Die 
erst  hystori  von  zweyen  truvven  gesellen,  mit  namen  Olwier  eynes 
kunigs  sun  vsz  Castilia,  vnd  Arto  eynes  kiinigs  sun  von  Algarbia, 
wolches  kunigrych  zu  vnsern  zyten  ist  vnter  de  kiinig  von  Portugal. 
Die  ander  hystori  sagt  von  zweyen  bruderen  Valentino  vnnd  Orso, 
deren  vatter  eyn  keiser  zu  Constantinopel,  vnd  ir  mutter  eins  kunigs 
dochter  in  Frankrich  gwesen,  mit  namen  Peppin,  gezogen  vsz  frantzb- 
sicher  zunge  in  dutsch  durch  Wilhelm  Ziely  von  Bern  in  ochtlandt. 
Anno  M.D.XXI.  [Colophon.]  Gcdriickt  durch  den  fiirsichtigcn  Adam 
Petri  von  Langendorff,  Burger  zu  Basel.  In  dem  iar,  do  ma  zalt  nach 
Christi  vnssers  herre  geburt  Tusent  fiinffhundert  Zwenzig  vTi  ein  iar. 
An  dent  jciiii.  tag  des  Monats  Februarij.    Folio.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  6  leaves  ;  folios  1-182. 

This  edition  was  unknown  to  Panzer,  and  was  known  to  Brunet  only  through  the 
mention  of  it  by  Ebert. 

The  History  of  Olivaires  of  Castile,  and  Arthur  of  Dalgarve. 

Translated  out  of  the  Spanish  into  the  Italian  Tongue,  by  Francesco 
Portonari  :  And  from  the  Italian  made  English.  By  Mark  Mickle- 
thwait,  M.A.  London  :  Printed  for  A.  and  J.  Churchill,  and  Fra.  Hild- 
yard  Bookseller  in  York.    MDCXCV.    Sm.  8vo. 

A — L  in  twelves,  besides  the  errata,  i  leaf. 

From  the  libraries  of  Mr.  Goldsmid,  whose  arms  are  on  the  sides,  and  Sir  John 
Simeon.  The  only  other  copy  known  is  in  the  Douce  collection.  It  is  the  only  one 
mentioned  by  Lowndes. 

OLMO,  Joseph  del.  Relacion  Historica  del  Avto  General  de  Fe, 
qve  se  celebro  en  Madrid  Este  Afio  de  1680.  Con  assistencia  del  Key 
N.  S.  Carlos  II.  y  de  las  Magestades  de  la  Reina  N.  S.  y  la  Avgvs- 

tissima  Reina  Madre Refierense  con  cvriosa  pvntvalidad  todas 

las  circunstancias  de  tan  Glorioso  Triunfo  de  la  Fe,  con  el  Catalogo  de 
los  Senores,  que  se  hizieron  Familiares,  y  el  Sumario  de  las  Sentencias 
de  los  Reos.    Vd.  inserta  la  Estampa  de  toda  la  Perspectiva  del  Teatro, 

Plaqa,  y  Valcones Impresso  por  Roqve  Rico  de  Miranda, 

Ano  1680.    4to. 

Frontispiece,  title,  and  preliminaries,  16  leaves  ;  A — Qq  2  in  fours. 

O'MOLLOY,  FrancISCUS.    Grammatica  Latino-Hibernica,  nunc 

compendiata Rotnce  Ex  Typographia  S.  Cong,  de  Propag.  Fide. 

1677.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  5  leaves  ;  A—  M  in  twelves,  the  last  leaf  blank. 


ONA— OPERA.  1061 

ONA,  Pedro  DE.  Aravco  Domado.  Compvesto  por  el  Licenciado 
Pedro  de  Ona,  natural  de  los  Infantes  de  Engol  en  Chile,  Colegial  del 
Real  Colegio  Mayor  de  San  Felipe,  y  San  Marcos,  fundado  en  la 

Ciudad  de  Lima Ano  1605.     Con  privilegio.  En  Madrid,  por 

Juan  de  la  Cuesta.    Vendese  eti  casa  de  Franisco  Lopez.    Sm.  8vo.  R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  16  leaves  ;  A — Vu  in  eights. 

Antonio  mentions  the  first  edition  of  this  work  as  printed  at  Madrid  in  1595  and 
the  second  at  the  same  place  in  1608,  but  these  dates  are  no  doubt  mistakes  for 
1596  and  1605.  See  Salvd's  catalogue,  No.  830.  The  work  is  a  poem  in  nineteen 
books  in  octave  stanzas.  "  It  is,"  says  Ticknor,  "  mainly  historical,  and  ends  at  last 
with  an  account  of  the  capture  of '  that  English  pirate  Richerte  Aquines ' — no  doubt 
Sir  Richard  Hawkins,  who  was  taken  in  the  Pacific  in  1594,  under  circumstances 
not  more  unlike  those  which  Oiia  describes  than  might  be  expected  in  a  poetical 
version  of  them  by  a  Spaniard." 

OPERA  nova  Amorosa  De  Notturno  Napolitano  nella  qual  si 
contiene.  Diuersi  Sonetti  Capitoli.  [Colophon.]  In  Bologna  in  casa 
de  Maestro  Hieronynio  di  Beneditti  del,  M.D.XX.    A  woodcut  on  the 

title. Opera   nova   Amorosa  per   Nottvrno   dove  visono  Capitoli 

Epistole  e  Madrigali.    [Colophon.]    Stampata  in  Bologna  per  Maestro 

Hieronyvio  di  Beneditti  Del.  M.D.XXI.     A  woodcut  on  the  title. 

Opera  nova  Amorosa  per  Nottvrno  dove  visono  Capitoli  Strambotti  e 
Sonetti.    [Colophon.]    Stanipato  in  Bologna  per  Maestro  Hieronymo  di 
Beneditti  del  M.D.XXI.    In  i  vol.    Sm.  8vo.    Y.  M. 
Each  piece  consists  of  four  leaves. 

OPERA  noua  contemplatiua  p  ogni  fidel  christiano  laquale  tratta 
de  le  figure  del  testamento  vecchio:  le  quale  figure  sonno  verificate 
nel  testamento  nuouo  :  con  le  sue  expositione :  Et  con  el  detto  de  li 
propheti  sopra  esse  figure  :  Sicome  legendo  trouerete :  Et  nota  che 
ciaschuna  figura  del  testamento  nuouo  trouareti  dua  dil  testamento 
vecchio  :  le  quale  sonno  affiguratte  a  quella  dil  nuouo  Et  sempre 
quella  dil  nuouo  sara  posta  nel  meggio  di  quelle  dua  dil  vecchio  : 
Cosa  belissima  da  Ttedere  a  chi  se  dilectano  de  la  sacra  scrittura : 
Nouamente  stampata.  Opera  di  Gioiianiandrea  Vauassore  ditto  Va- 
dagnino :  Stampata  nouamete  nella  inclita  citta  di  Vinegia.  \s.  «.]  Sm. 
8vo.    BL.  M. 

A — H  in  eights  ;  H  vi  bears  only  the  colophon,  and  H  vii  a  woodcut  of  the 
Virgin  and  child  ;  H  viii  is  blank. 

This  curious  volume  is  fully  described  in  the  Cicognara  Catalogue,  No.  1992, 
but  neither  there  nor  in  Brunei  is  the  most  important  fact  respecting  it  men- 
tioned, namely,  that  it  is  a  veritable  block  book,  the  whole  of  the  text  being 
engraved  on  wood.  It  is  the  only  known  work  of  the  kind  printed  in  Italy,  and  it 
is  remarkable  that  it  should  have  appeared  at  so  late  a  date.  Count  Cicognara 
assigns  to  it  the  date  of  1510-12,  but  it  is  probably  several  years  later  than  that. 
The  name  of  Giov.  Andrea  Vavassore  is  found  appended  to  editions  of  Ariosto  in 
1549-56,  as  the  publisher.    Count  Cicognara  thus  concludes  his  notice  of  the  book  : 


io62  ORARIVM— ORDER. 

"  Le  stampe  sono  di  bella  esecuzione,  e  provengono  da  disegni  di  diversi  maestri, 
allequali  non  puo  assegnarsi  una  data  piii  antica  del  1 510  ovvero  I2,giacch6  alcuna 
(siccome  avverti  I'Ab.  Zani)  fe  presa  dalla  passione  di  Alberto  Durero,  e  fra  le  altre 
poi  esattissimamente  quella  ove  N.  S.  scaccia  i  Profanatori  del  tempio,  che  dal 
maestro  tedesco  si  pubblico  nel  1509.  Alcune  altre  poi  sono  rozze,  ed  alcune  sem- 
brano  provenire  possino  da'bei  disegni  dei  Bellini,  del  Carpazio  dello  Squarcione  o 
del  Montagna  come  probabilmente  sark  Questo  Vadagnino  pubblico  diversi  anni 
dopo  anche  la  vita  di  Esopo  volgarizzata  dal  Tuppo." 

ORARIVM  sev  Libellvs  Precationum  per  Regiam  maiestatem 
Latin^  seditus.  1560.  Cum  Priuilegio  ad  imprimendum  solum.  [Colo- 
phon.] Londini  ex  officina  Willielmi  Seres  typographi.  Cum  Priuilegio 
....  1560.    Sm.  sqr.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Title  and  calendar,  with  sig.  a,  8  leaves  ;  "  Catechismus,"  with  sig.  a  repeated, 
8  leaves  ;  A — L  iv  in  eights. 

ORATORES  GR^CI.  Orationes  horum  rhetorum.  .^Eschinis. 
Lysise.  Alcidamantis.  Antisthenis.  Demadis.  Andocidis.  Isaei.  Dinarchi. 
Antiphontis.  Lycurgi.  Gorgire.  Lesbonactis.  Herodis.  Item  Aeschinis 
uita.  Lysiae  uita.  [Colophon.]  Veiietiis  Apud  Aldum,i^  Andream  So- 
ceruvi.  Mcnse  Aprili.  AT. D. XIII. Isocratis  Orationes.  Alcidaman- 
tis contra  dicendi  magistros.  Gorgiae  de  lavdibus  Helenae.  Aristidis 
de  lavdibus  Athenarvm.  Eivsdem  de  lavdibus  vrbis  Romae.  Venctiis 
in  aedibus  Aldi,  et  Andreae  Soceri.  IIII  Nonarvm  Maii.  M.DXIII. 
2  vols.    Folio.    R.  M. 

ORCHARD  OF  SION.  Here  begynneth  the  orcharde  of  Syon/ 
in  the  whiche  is  conteyned  the  reuelacyons  of  seynt  Katheryne  of 
Sene/  With  ghostly  fruytes  &  precyous  plantes  for  the  helthe  of  mannes 
soule.  [Colophon.]  And  thus  endetli  this  booke.  Impryntcd  at  Londonj 
in  Flete  stretej  at  y  sygne  of  y  sonnej  by  me  Wynkyn  de  Worde.  The 
yere  of  cure  lorde.  M.CCCCC  ■  &.  xix.  andtJie  .  xxviii.  daye  of  Septeber. 
Folio.    Black  letter.     Woodcuts.    BR.  M. 

Title,  I  leaf,  with  woodcuts  on  each  side  ;  prologue  and  calendar,  8  leaves  ;  a — z 
in  sixes  ;  &,  6  leaves  ;  ?,  6  leaves  ;  ®,  6  leaves  ;  A — B  4  in  sixes,  the  last  leaf  having 
only  the  woodcut  found  at  the  back  of  the  title  repeated  on  the  recto,  the  verso 
being  blank.     The  title  is  in  facsimile. 

Preceding  the  colophon  is  "  Lenuoye  of  Dane  James  the  translator,"  from  which 
it  appears  that  the  book  was  printed  at  the  cost  of  Richard  Sutton,  steward  of  Syon 
Monastery.     In  Herbert's  Ames,  i.,  pp.  158-9,  is  a  very  full  account  of  the  book. 

ORDENANZA  de  20  Noviembre  de  172 1,  sobre  la  forma  de 
recoyer  los  desertores.    \s.  /.]    172 1.    8vo. 

Pp.  13. 

ORDER.  The  Order  of  the  Communion.  [Colophon.]  Imprinted 
at  London,  the  eyght  dale  of  Mar  che,  in  the  second  yere  of  the  r eigne  of 
our  soucrcignc  lorde  kyng  Edivard  the  .  VI:   By  Ry chard  Grafton 


ORDER— ORDERS.  1063 

printer  to  his  vioste  royall  Maiestie.  In  the  yere  of  our  Lorde. 
M.D.XL  VIII.  Cum  priuilegio  ad  imprimendum  solum.  4to.  Black 
letter.     BR.  M. 

A — C  2  in  fours. 

Following  the  title  is  Edward  the  Sixth's  Proclamation,  setting  forth  the  authority 
and  circumstances  under  which  this  first  edition  of  the  Protestant  Communion 
Service  was  compiled  and  published,  "  least  euer)'  man  phantasiyng  and  deuisyno-a 
sondry  way  by  hymself,  in  the  vse  of  thys  moste  bhssed  Sacrament  of  vnitie,  there 
myghte  thereby  arise  any  vnsemely  and  vngodly  diuersitie." 

ORDER.  Ordo  distribvtionis  Sacramenti Altaris  svb  vtraqve  specie, 
et  formvla  confessionis  faciendae  in  Regno  Angliae.  Hcbc  Londini  evvl- 
gata  svnt  octavo  die  Alartii  Anni  M.D.XLVIII.  \s.l.cta?^  Sm.  8vo. 
BL.  M. 

Twelve  leaves. 

At  the  end  is  an  address  "  Pio  lectori,"  which  is  signed,  "A.  A.  S.  D.  Th."  To 
these  initials  a  contemporary  hand  has  filled  in  the  name  of  A.[lex.]  A.[lesius] 
S.[cotusj,  and  it  is  most  probable  that  Alex.  Ales  was  the  translator  of  this  work,  as 
he  was  also  of  the  Prayer  book  of  1 549. 

The  Order  of  Matrimony.     Hebre.  xiii.     Let  wedlocke  be  had 

in  pryce  in  all poyntes  and  let  the  chamber  be  vndcfyled.  Imprinted  At 
London  by  Anthony  Scoloker  Dwelling  in  the  Sauoy  rentes.  Without 
Tcmplcbarre.  Cum  Priuilegio  ad  Imprimendum  solum.  Sm.  8vo.  Black 
letter. 

a — b  4  in  eights. 

From  Mr.  Corser's  collection.  Herbert,  in  his  edition  of  Ames,  p.  749,  describes 
the  tract  from  a  copy  in  his  own  possession. 

This  is  probably  a  translation  from  a  form  of  matrimony  in  use  among  some 
body  of  foreign  Protestants. 

ORDER  OF  THE  HOSPITALS.     The  Ordre  of  the  Hospital 

of  S.  Bartholomewes  in  West-smythfielde  in  London.    [Quotation  from 

I  Epist.  John  ii.  Chap.]  Londini,  Anno  1SS--U}   [Colophon.]  Imprinted 

at  London  by  Rycharde  Grafton,  Printer  to  the  Kynges  maiestie.     Cum 

priuilegio  ad  imprimendutn  solum.    Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter. 

A — I  in  eights. 

Following  the  title-page  is  a  long  and  interesting  preface,  setting  forth  the  cir- 
cumstances and  conditions  under  which  this  hospital  was  founded  in  the  preceding 
reign  for  100  sick  persons,  and  endowed  with  1,000  marks  a  year,  half  to  be  given 
by  the  Crown  and  half  by  the  Corporation.  At  the  end  we  find,  "  A  daily  seruice 
for  the  poore,"  "  The  Letany  and  Suffrages,"  a  thanksgiving,  and,  lastly,  "A  passeport 
to  be  deliuered  to  the  Poore,"  i.e.,  a  certificate  delivered  to  each  inmate  on  leaving. 

The  last  figure  of  the  date  on  the  title  is  so  indistinct  that  it  is  impossible  to  say 
if  it  is  intended  for  a  2,  a  3,  or  an  8.  Herbert  quotes  an  edition  of  1553  which  was 
probably  identical  with  this. 

ORDERS  Appointed  by  his  Maiestie  to  be  straightly  obserued, 
for  the  preuenting  and  remedying  of  the  dearth  of  Graine  and  other 


io64  ORDERS— ORDINARY. 

Victuall.  Imprinted  at  London  by  Bonham  Norton,  and  lohn  Bill.  .  .  . 
Anno  Dom.  1622.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A—  D  in  fours  ;  D  4  blank ;  title  on  A  2. 

ORDERS,  Set  downe  by  the  Duke  of  Medina,  Lord  General  of 
the  King's  Fleet,  to  be  obserued  in  the  voyage  toward  England. 
Translated  out  of  Spanish  into  English  by  T.  P.  Impritited  at  London 
by  Thomas  Orwin  for  Thomas  Gilbert,  dwelling  in  Fleetstreete  tieere  to 
the  signe  of  the  Castle.    1588.    4to.    Blaek  letter.    BL.  M. 

A — B  in  fours. 

ORDINANCE.  Two  Ordinances  of  the  Lords  and  Commons 
Assembled  in  Parliament.  One  for  the  Lord  Major  of  the  City  of 
London  and  the  Justices  of  the  Peace  for  the  City,  and  parts  adjacent, 
to  suppresse  Stage-playes,  Interludes,  and  common  Playes,  and 
commit  the  Actors  to  the  Gaole,  to  be  tryed  at  the  next  Sessions,  to 
be  punished  as  Rogues.  The  Other  For  setling  of  the  Major,  and 
Sheriffes,  and  Establishing  Officers  for  the  City  of  Chester.  And  also 
for  indempnifying  of  the  Charter  of  the  City.  Printed  at  London  by 
Robert  Ibbitson,  in  Smitlifield,  tieerthe  Qneenes-Iwad  Tavern,  1647.  4to. 
Four  leaves.    The  ordinance  against  plays  is  dated  October  22,  1647. 

An  Ordinance  of  the  Lords  and   Commons  Assembled   in 

Parliament,  For,  The  utter  suppression  and  abolishing  of  all  Stage- 
Playes  and  Interludes.  With  the  Penalties  to  be  inflicted  upon  the 
Actors  and  Spectators,  herein  exprest.  Die  Veneris  1 1  Febrtiarii. 
i647[-8].  Imprinted  at  London  for  John  Wright  at  the  Kings  Head  in 
the  old  Bayley.    1647.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

From  Mr.  Jolley's  collection.  It  is  to  be  presumed  that  the  ordinance  of 
October  22,  1647,  had  not  been  found  stringent  or  effectual  enough. 


An  Additionall  Ordinance  of  the  Lords  and  Commons  as- 
sembled in  Parliament :  Concerning  dayesof  Recreation,  allowed  unto 
Schollers,  Apprentices,  and  other  Servants  ....  London  printed  for 
John  Wright  at  the  King's  Head  in  the  old  Bayley.    1647.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

ORDINARY.  The  ordenarye  for  all  faythfull  Chrystias  to  leade 
a  vertuous  and  Godly  lyfe  here  in  this  vale  of  miserie.  Translated  out 
of  Doutche  into  Inglysh  by  Anthony  Scoloker.  i  Cor.  vij.  Let  euerie 
one  abyde  in  the  calling  where  in  he  is  called.  Imprinted  at  Londo,  by 
Anthony  Scoloker.  for  Willyatn  Scares.  Dwelling  in  s.  botolphs  Parish 


ORDINARY— ORDON  NANCES.  1065 

wythoiit  Aldersgate.  Cum  gratia  .  .  .  Per  Septennium.  [1548.] 
Sm.  8vo.    Black  letter.    Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

A — H  4  in  eights  ;  A — C  4  in  eights. 

The  first  register  embraces  two  works  with  separate  titles,  the  first  as  above,  the 

second  commencing  on  E  7  as  follows:  "A  right  goodly  rule  howe  all  faithfull 

christyans  ought  to  occupie  and  exercyse  them  selues  in  theyr  dayly  prayers 

Imprinted  at  London  by  Anthony  Scoloker.  ....  Anno.  1548."  The  second  set  of 
signatures  (.'\— C  4)  is  occupied  by,  "A  Notable  collection  of  diuers  and  sodry 
places  of  the  sacred  scriptures/  which  make  to  the  declaracyon  of  the  Lordes  prayer/ 
Comenly  called  the  Pater  noster.  Gathered  by  the  famous  Gierke  Master  Peter 
viret/  Frenchman.  And  translated  oute  of  Frenche  into  Inglysh  by  Anthony 
Scoloker.  The  .  viii  .  Daye  of  June.  Anno.  1548.  Imprinted  at  London,  by  An- 
thony Scoloker,  I>welting  wythout  Aldersgate.  And  Wyllyam  Seres  Dwelling  in 
the  Elye  rentes  in  holbome.     Cum  Gratia  .  .  .  Per  Septennium." 

ORDINARY  OF  CHRISTIAN  MEN.  Thordynary of  cr>'sten 
men.  [This  is  the  whole  title,  over  a  woodcut  which  occupies  the  remain- 
der of  the  page.  On  the  fifth  leaf,  beneath  another  large  cut,  occurs  :] 
Here  begynneth  a  notable  treatyse  and  ful  necessarye  to  all  crysten 
men  for  to  knowe/  &  it  is  named  the  Ordynary  of  Crystyens  or  of 
crysten  men.  [Colophon.]  Here  eiideth  the  boke  named  the  ordynarye 
of  crysten  men  neively  hy story ed  and  translated  out  of  Frensshe  in  to 
Englysshe.  Enprytited  in  the  cyte  of  London  in  the  Fletestrete  in  the  sygne 
of  y  Son9te  by  wynkyn  de  worde  .  y  yere  of  our  lorde  .  M.  CCCCC.  vi. 
4to.    Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

Title  and  table,  4  leaves,  marked  Aa  ;  the  work.  A,  6  leaves  ;  B,  4  leaves  ;  C, 
8  leaves  ;  D — NN  in  fours  and  eights  alternately;  (no  sigs.  Y  or  Z)  ;  Oo — Pp  in 
sixes,  the  last  leaf  bearing  the  printer's  device  on  its  recto,  and  on  the  verso  the 
title  repeated. 

Second  edition  in  English,  W.  de  Worde  having  originally  printed  it  in  1502. 

ORDONNANCES.  Les  Ordonnances  de  I'Ordre  de  la  Thoyson 
d'or.    [^Sans  lieu  ni  date.']    4to.    Printed  on  vellum. 

A — L  in  fours,  the  last  three  leaves  of  sheet  L  being  blank. 

Printed  at  Antwerp,  by  C.  Plantin,  about  1559.  The  blank  leaves  are  in  this  copy 
filled  with  five  additional  chapters  in  contemporary  MS.,  the  two  first  of  which 
relate  to  the  exclusion  of  heresies  or  heretics  from  the  Order  :  "  Chap.  xvii.  Que 
I'election  d'aucun  suspect  d'heresie  sera  de  nulle  valeur.  Chap,  xviii.  Que  les  che- 
valiers et  officiers  feront  garder  les  Ordonnances  de  I'eglise  par  leurs  subjectz." 

Les  Ordonnances  de  I'Ordre  de  la  Toison  d'Or.    [Sans  lieu  ni 

date.]    4to.    Printed  on  vellum. 

This  edition  has  eight  preliminary  leaves,  the  first  blank,  and  pp.  1-83.  It  is 
described  by  Brunei  as  the  second.  It  was  from  the  same  press  as  the  first  edition, 
and  probably  printed  a  year  or  two  later. 

Constitvtiones  clarissimi  atqve  Excellentissimi  Ordinis  Vel- 

leris  Avrei.    E  Gallico  Latinvm  conversae.    [Sine  loco  aut  anno.]    4to. 

Printed  on  vellum. 

A — I  in  fours. 

6K 


io66  ORDONNANCES—ORNITHOLOGIA. 

ORDONNANCES.  Constitvtiones  Ordinis  Velleris  Avrei  e  Gal- 
ileo in  Latinvm  conversa;.  [At  p.  65.]  Addita  vel  immvtata  in  Con- 
stitvtionibvs  Ordinis  Velleris  Avrei  partim  a  Philippe  Bono  primo 
eiusdem  Ordinis  Auctore,  partim  ab  eius  Siiccessoribus  Supremis,  pro 
temporum  ratione,  ac  rerum  varietate,  &  de  Fratrum  Commilitonum 
consilio  atque  sententia.    [Sine  loco  ant  anno.'}    4to. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves,  the  first  blank  ;  A— M  in  fours,  the  last  two 
leaves  blank.  Included  in  the  preliminary  leaves  are  two  copperplate  engravings 
by  Cornelius  Galle,  representing  the  arms  and  the  collar  of  the  Order. 

Both  editions  of  this  translation  were  no  doubt  printed  at  the  same  press  as 
those  in  French  described  above,'and  at  about  the  same  date. 

ORLEANS,  Charles  Due  d'.  Poesies,  publides  sur  le  Manu- 
scrit  Original  de  la  Bibliotheque  de  Grenoble  par  A.  Champollion- 
Figeac.    Fan's.    1842.    8vo.    GR.  M. 

ORMEROD,  George.  The  History  of  the  County  Palatine  and 
City  of  Chester  ;  Compiled  from  Original  Evidences  in  Public  Offices 
....  Incorporated  with  a  Republication  of  King's  Vale  Royal  and 
Leycester's  Cheshire  Antiquities.  London.  18 19.  3  vols.  Folio.  Plates. 
Large  paper.    R.  M. 

In  this  copy  the  arms  are  emblazoned. 

ORMEROD,  Oliver.  The  Pictvre  of  a  Puritane  :  or,  A  Relation 
of  the  opinions,  qualities,  and  practises  of  the  Anabaptists  in  Germanic, 
and  of  the  Puritanes  in  England.  Wherein  it  is  firmely  prooued,  that 
the  Puritanes  doe  resemble  the  Anabaptists,  in  aboue  fourescore  seuerall 
thinges.  By  Oliuer  Ormerod,  of  Emmanuel  Colledge  in  Cambridge. 
Wherunto  is  annexed  a  short  treatise,  entituled,  Puritano-papismus : 
or  a  discouerie  of  Puritan-Papisme.  Newly  corrected  and  enlarged. 
[Quotation  from  St.  Jerome.]  London  Printed  by  E.  A.  for  Nathaniel 
Fosbroke,  and  are  to  be  solde  at  his  Shop,  at  tlie  'West  end  of  Panics. 
1605.    4to. 

A — Q  2  in  fours. 

The  first  edition  of  this  volume  appeared  the  same  year,  with  the  author's  initials 
only  on  the  title. 

ORNAMENT.  Livre  de  Feuilles  d'Orfeurerie  et  de  taille  depargne. 

....  1673.    %  plates. Quinque  sensuum  descriptio.  In  eo  picture 

genere,  quod  (Grottesche)  vocant  Itali  F.  Clein  inv.    Sould  by  Thomas 

Rowlett  att  his  Shop  ncere  Temple  Barre.    1646.    6  plates. Raccolta 

di  vasi  diversi  di  Stefano  della  Bella.    Parigi.    \s.  al\     ^plates.    Ob- 
long 4to. 

ORNITHOLOGIA  NOVA.  Or,  a  New  General  History  of  Birds. 
Extracted  from  the  best  Authorities  in  various  Languages,  both 
Anticnt  and  Modern  ....  Illustrated  with  above  Three  Hundred  and 


ORNITHOPARCUS— ORRERY.  1067 

Fifty  Figures  ....  BirmingJiam :  Printed  by  T.  Warren,  Bookseller 
in  the  Bull-Ring.    1743-5.    2  vols.    Sm.  8vo.    R. 

ORNITHOPARCUS.  Andreas  Ornithoparcvs  His  Micrologvs, 
Or  Introdvction  ;  containing  the  Art  of  Singing.  Digested  into  Foure 
Bookes.  Not  onely  profitable,  bvt  also  necessary  for  all  that  arc 
studious  of  Musicke.  Also  the  Dimension  and  Perfect  Vse  of  the 
Monochord,  according  to  Guido  Aretinus.  By  lohn  Dovland  Lvtenist, 
Lute-player,  and  Bachelor  of  Musicke  in  both  the  Vniuersities.  1609! 
London  :  Printed  for  Thomas  Adams,  dwelling  in  Paules  Church-yard, 
at  the  Signe  of  the  white  Lion.    Folio.     Woodcuts. 

A— Bb,  2  leaves  each.     Dedicated  by  Douland  to  Robert,  Earl  of  Salisbury. 

OROSIUS.  [On  the  recto  of  the  8th  leaf]  Pauli  horosij  presbi- 
teri  historiogphi  discipl'i  sancti.  augustini  epi.  aduersu  cristiani  nols 
qrulos  prologus  I  libros  septe.  [Colophon.]  Per  Johanne  Schuszler 
forcntissime  vrbis  Auguste  conciue  impressi.  Anno  a :ptu  virginis  Marie 
salutifero.  M".  qdringetesimo  et  septuagesimo  p'mo.  Circit'  iunij  nonas 
septlas.    Folio.    BL.  M. 

One  hundred  and  twenty-three  leaves,  preceded  by  seven  leaves  of  the  register 
of  chapters. 

ORPHEUS.  [Orphaei  Argonautica,  et  hymni.  Procli  Lycii  philos. 
hymni  Graece.]    [Colophon.]   Anno  ab  incarnatione  M.ccccc.    Die  xix. 

Septembris.    Impressum  Florentif  impensa  Philippi  lute  bibriopole 

4to.    R.  M. 

Editio  princeps. 

Fifty-one  leaves.    From  Count  Boutourlin's  collection. 

Orphei  Argonautica  hymni,  libellus  de  lapidibus   et   frag- 

menta,  cum  notis  variorum.    Lipsice.    1764.    8vo. 

ORPHEUS  BRITANNICUS :  Or  the  Gentleman  and  Lady's  Mu- 
sical Musaeum :  Consisting  of  one  hundred  favourite  Songs,  compiled 
from  the  most  approved  Vocal  Performances  at  the  Theatres,  Vauxhall, 
Mary-bone  Gardens,  Sadlers- Wells  ....  London.    1760.    8vo. 

One  hundred  leaves,  besides  the  title.  With  headpieces  engraved  by  Benjamin 
Cole,  after  designs  by  Boitard.     From  Mr.  G.  Daniel's  collection. 

ORRERY,  Roger  Boyle,  Earl  of.  Poems  On  most  of  the 
Festivals  of  the  Church.  Composed  by  the  Right  Honovrable,  Roger 
Earl  of  Orrery.  Printed  for  Henry  Herringman  at  the  Anchor  in  the 
Lower  Walk  of  the  New-Exchange.    1681.    Folio. 

Title,  I  leaf;  preface,  2  leaves  ;  dedication  "To  my  Mother  the  Church  of 
Christ  in  Ireland,"  I  leaf;  "  On  the  Day  of  the  Incarnation  of  the  Blessed  Virgin," 
I  leaf ;  B— V,  2  leaves  each. 

A  posthumous  publication.  It  appears,  from  the  peculiar  and  almost  unmistak- 
able character  of  the  type  employed,  that  the  whole  of  the  body  of  this  scarce 


io68  ORSINI—ORTELIUS. 

volume  was  set  up  and  printed  at  Cork,  and  the  stock  or  edition,  after  the  writer's 
death,  transmitted  to  London,  where  the  title-page  and  preface  were  added. 

The  present  copy  has  on  the  flyleaf,  "  Frances  Shaen  her  Book  given  her  by  my 
Lady  Dowager  of  Orrery.  1680,"  and  on  the  other  side  a  second  inscription 
belonging  to  1685. 

From  the  coUections  of  Dr.  Bliss  and  Mr.  Corser.  The  former  notes  :  "  See 
Walpole's  Royal  and  Noble  Authors,  by  Park,  vol.  5,  pp.  191-3.  See  a  very  good 
account  of  Lord  Orrery  in.  the  Biographia  Britannica,  art.  Boyle.  Horace  Walpole 
had  never  seen  this  volume,  which  he  describes  as  printed  ;  but  he  knew  neither  the 
size  nor  date.  Mr.  Brand  had  a  copy  in  MS.  dated  1678,  and  entitled,  '  Poems  on 
the  chiefest  Holy-daies  in  our  Churches  Kalendar.'  It  will  be  remarked  from  the 
MS.  entry  of  Frances  Shaen  above,  that  this  vol.  was  antedated.  It  was  evidently 
published  in  1680,  although  dated  in  the  following  year." 

It  may  be  added  that  the  heading  at  the  beginning  of  the  main  part  of  the  book 
is, "  Poems  on  the  Cheifest  Holy  Dayes  In  the  Kalendar  of  The  Chvrch." 

[ORSINI  DE  PONZANA,  Cesare.]  Magistri  Stopini  Poet§ 
Ponzanensis  Capriccia  Macaronica.  Padu^  Apud  Caspar um  Ganassam. 
1636.    Sm.  8vo.    Y.  M. 

Editio  princeps.    A — N  in  eights,  including  the  title. 

ORTEGA,  Juan  DE.  Relacion  verisima  que  embio  Francisco  de 
Benaya,  mercader  de  Barcelona,  a  la  Villa  de  Vilbao,  al  Reuercndo 
Padre  Fray  Sebastian  Osorio,  Prouincial  de  la  Orden  del  Serafico 
Padre  san  Francisco.  A  donde  da  declaracion  del  cruelissimo  martyrio, 
que  los  Infieles  dieron  a  siete  Padres  de  la  misma  Orden,  en  la  Ciudad 
de  Arondola.  Y  juntamente  con  ellos,  al  verdugo  que  los  cruzific6 : 
porque  sacando  el  cora^on  de  vn  Frayle,  hallo  escrito  con  letras  de 
oro,  el  nombre  santissimo  de  Jesus.  Sucedio  en  este  presente  ano. 
Compuesta  por  Juan  de  Ortega.  Impressas  con  licencia,  en  Alcala  de 
H enures,  en  casa  de  Jiisto  Sanchez  Crespo,  que  sea  en  gloria.  Ano  de 
1607.    4to. 

Four  leaves.  Beneath  the  title  is  a  woodcut  of  a  martyr  going  to  execution. 
The  piece  is  in  metre. 

ORTELIUS,  Abrahamus.  Deoi^mDeairmqve  Capita  Ex  vetustis 
numismatibus  in  gratiam  Antiquitatis  studiosorum  effigiata  et  edita. 
Ex  mus^o  Abrahami  Ortelii.  Antiierpice,  1573.  Noua  editio,  aliquot 
iconibus  aucta.  [Colophon.]  Antverpice,  Philippvs  Gallcevs  excvdebat, 
Anno  M.D.LXXXII.    4to. 

Engraved  title  and  sixty-three  plates.  Each  portrait  is  within  an  ornamental 
border.  Following  the  title  are  three  leaves  of  letterpress  and  a  leaf  of  letterpress 
with  the  colophon  on  the  verso  is  at  the  end  of  the  volume. 

Theatrum  Orbis  Terrarvm.    [Colophon.]    Auctoris  cere  &  cu7-a 

impressinn  absolutiiviqne  apud  j^gid.  Coppenitim  Diesth,  Antverpiae. 
M.D.LXX.    Folio.    Maps. 

Title,  index,  &c.,  32  leaves  ;  maps  1-53. 

Theatrum  Orbis  terrarum.  Opus  nunc  denuo  ab  ipso  Auctore 


ORTIZ— ORTUNEZ.  1069 

recognitum,  multisque  locis  castigatum,  &  quamplurimis  novis  Tabulis 
atque  Commentariis  auctum.  [Colophon.]  Antverpice  in  Officina. 
Plantiniana M.D.XCII.    Folio.    Maps. 

ORTIZ,  Alonso.  Los  tratados  del  doctor  alonso  ortiz.  Tratado 
dela  herida  del  rey.  Tratado  consolatorio  ala  princesa  de  portugal. 
Item  vna  oracion  alos  reyes  en  latin  y  en  romance  Item  dos  cartas 
mesajeras  a  los  reyes.  vna  que  embio  la  cibdad  la  otra  el  cabildo  de  la 
yglesia  de  toledo.  Tratado  contra  la  carta  del  prothonotario  de  lucena. 
[Colophon.]  Acaban  se  los  tratados.  De  la  herida  del  Rey.  Consolatorio 
ala  pncesa  de  portugal.  Y  el  tratado  contra  la  carta  del  protonotario 
Juan  de  lucena  fechos  &  copilados  por  el  egregio  &•  famoso  dot  or  Alfonso 
ortiz  canonigo  de  la  sata  yglesia  de  Toledo,  a  loor  &■  gloria  d'  la  saii- 
tissima  Trinidad  &■  de  la  virgen  sancta  Maria  &■  de  ioda  la  corte 
celestial.  Fue  imprimido  en  la  muy  noble  &  miiy  leal  cibdad  de  Seuilla 
por  tres  Alemanes  copaneros.  En  el  aiio  del  senor.  M.CCCC.XCIII. 
Folio.    Black  letter. 

a — k  in  eights;  f,  lo  leaves;  1 — n  in  sixes. 

ORTIZ,  Francisco.  Epistolas  familiares  del  mvy  reuerendo 
padre  fray  Francisco  Ortiz,  preclarissimo  predicador  de  la  orden  de 
san  Francisco,  embiadas  a  algunas  personas  particulares.  Las  quales 
son  de  muy  santa  y  prouechosa  doctrina,  y  mucha  erudicio.  Contienen 
se  juntamente  en  este  volume  algunas  otras  obras  del  mesmo  padre,  no 
menos  prouechosas  como  en  la  tabla  se  declara.  Dirigidas  al  Ilustris- 
simo  senor  do  Joan  de  la  Cerda  Duque  de  Medina  celi.  Code  dela  villa 
del  Puerto  de  sancta  Maria.  Senor  de  Cogolludo,  y  su  Marquesado : 
y  de  las  villas  de  Arcos  y  Luzon,  Ciguela  y  Barabona.  &c.  M.D.LII. 
Tassado  en  cinco  Reales.  [Colophon.]  Fue  impressa  esta  presente  obra  : 
en  la  nmy  noble  villa  y  Universidad  de  Alcala  de  Henares,  en  casa  del 
sefior  Juan  de  Brocar,  en  el  Ana  de  mill  y  quinientos  y  cimuenta  y  vno. 
A  diez  y  nueue  dias  de  Noiciembre.    Folio.    Black  letter. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  a — m  in  eights  ;  n,  10  leaves,  the  last  blank. 
The  title  within  a  woodcut  border. 

ORTULUS  Rosarum  de  valle  lachrymarum.  \Parisiis'\  Claude 
Jauniar.    {Circa  1494.]    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

Twenty-four  leaves. 

ORTUNEZ  DE  Calahorra,  Diego.  Espeio  de  Principes,  y 
Cavalleros.  En  el  qual,  en  tres  libros  se  cventan  los  immortales  hechos 
del  Cauallero  del  Febo,  y  de  su  hermano  Rosicler,  hijos  del  grande 
Emperador  Trebacio.  Con  las  altas  cauallerias,  y  muy  estraiios  amores 
de  la  muy  hermosa  y  estremada  Princessa  Claridiana,  y  de  otros  altos 
Principes  y  Caualleros.  Afio  1617.  Impresso  con  licencia :  Por  Juan 
de  Lanaja  y  Quartanet.  ....   • Segvnda  parte  de  Espeio  de  Prin- 


1070  ORTUNEZ—OS. 

cipes  y  Cavalleros,  en  dos  libros :  donde  se  tratan  los  altos  hechos  del 
EmperadorTrebacio,  y  de  sus  caros  hijos,  el  gran  Alphebo  t  inclito 
Rosicler,  y  del  muy  excelente  Claridiano,  hijo  del  Cauallero  del  Febo, 
de  la  Emperatriz  Claridiana  :  y  assi  mismo  de  Poliphebo  de  Tinacria, 
y  de  la  excelentlssima  Archisilora  Reyna  de  Lira,  y  de  otros  muy 

altos  Principes.    Compuesta  por  Pedro  la  Sierra Caragoqa,  Por 

Pedro  Cabarte  ....  Ano  de  M.DC.XVII.    In  i  vol.    Folio. 

Vol.  I.  Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves,  and  folios  1-362.  By  a  typographical 
error  the  folios  go  from  148  to  194.    Vol.  2.  Folios  1-124,  including  the  title. 

ORTUNEZ  DE  Calahorra,  Diego.  Espeio  de  Principes  y  Caual- 
leros.  TercerayQuarta  parte.  Por  el  Licenciado  Marcos  Martinez.  En 
Carago(^a,  Por  Pedro  Cabarte  acosta  de  Juan  de  Bonilla 1623. 

Folio. 

Parts.  Title  and  preliminaries,  8  leaves,  and  folios  I -172.  Part  4.  Folios  1-161, 
without  a  separate  title. 

A  translation  of  a  portion  of  this  work  is  described  in  this  Catalogue  under 
"  Mirror  of  Princely  Deeds." 

ORTUS  VOCABULORUM.  Ortus  vocabuloru  Alphabetico  or- 
dine  fere  omnia  q  in  Catholicon.  Breuiloquio.  Cornucopia.  Gemma 
vocabuloit  atq.  Medulla  gramatice  ponutur,  cum  vernacule  lingue 
Anglicane  expositione  continens.  Jmpressus  Lodoniis  p  Winddu  de 
IVorde  ac  in  vrbe  parrochia  scte  Brigide  {in  theFlete  strete)  ad  signu  solis 
mora  trahente.  [Colophon.]  Atino  .  .  .  M.CCCCCxxxij.  Die  vero.viii, 
Febriiarii.    4to.    BR.  M. 

A — KK  in  eights  and  fours  alternately;  LL,  6  leaves.    Sigs.  Y  and  Z  are  omitted. 

This  edition  of  1532  is  alike  unknown  to  Ames  and  Lowndes.  Beneath  the  title 
as  given  above  is  the  printer's  device,  which  occupies  the  remainder  of  the  page. 

ORUS  Apollo  Niliacus.  Ori  ApoUini  Niliaci,  de  sacris  notis  & 
sculpturis  libri  duo,  vbi  ad  fidem  vetusti  codicis  manu  scripti  restituta 
sunt  loca  permulta,  corrupta  ante  ac  deplorata.  Quibus  accessit  uersio 
recens,  per  lo.  Mercerum  Vticesem  concinnata,  &  observationes  non  in- 
frugiferae.  Parisiis  ApudJacobuniKeruer.   MDLI.  .  .  .  Sm.  8vo.   R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves ;  pp.  1-240,  and  3  leaves  unpaged,  the  last 
bearing  only  the  printer's  device. 

OS.     Os  facies  metu.    [Colophon.]    Impressum  Antwerpice.  per  me 
Johanne^n  de  Doesborch.    \s.  a.]    4to. 
Four  leaves. 

The  three  words,  as  given  above,  are  printed  in  large  letters  over  a  woodcut 
(representing a  scribe  at  work  in  his  cell)  which  occupies  the  rest  of  the  page.  The 
work  itself  is  a  vocabulary  of  Latin  and  English,  and  begins  at  the  back  of  the  title. 
The  first  two  lines  run  thus  : — 

"  a  mouth       a  face     a  chyne    a  toth    a  throot    a  tonge    roffe  of  the  mouth 
Os  facies        mentu       dens       guttur       lingua  palatum 

a  berde      a  browe       abrye     a  forhede     teples     a  lype 
Barba     supercilium     ciliu        frons       tepora    labru." 


OSBORNE~0' SULLIVAN.  107 1 

This  and  a  copy  in  the  library  of  Mr.  Christie-Miller  are  the  only  ones  known, 
and  are  both  deficient  of  a  few  words,  some  of  which  have  in  each  case  been  supplied 
from  the  other.  The  leaves  making  up  the  two  copies  were  found  in  the  cover  of 
an  old  Dutch  book. 

OSBORNE,  M.  A  Newe  Ballade  of  a  Louer/  Extollinge  his 
Ladye  .  To  the  tune  of  Damon  and  Pithias.  [At  the  end.]  Finis  q,. 
M.  Osb[orne].  [Colophon.]  Imprinted  at  London,  in  Fletstrete  at  the 
signe  of  the  Faucon,  by  Wylliam  Giyffith.  1568.  A  Broadside.  Black 
letter. 

Nine  stanzas  of  eight  lines  each,  in  two  columns,  divided  (except  the  first,  which 
is  printed  across  the  page,  with  the  music)  by  a  band  composed  of  four  small  wood- 
cuts unconnected  with  the  subject. 

Reprinted  in  "  Anc  Ballads,"  &c.,  in  1867.     No  other  copy  is  known. 

OSORIUS,  HiERONYMUS.  An  Epistle  of  the  Reuerend  father  in 
God  Hieronymvs  Osorivs  Bishop  of  Arcoburge  in  Portugale,  to  the 
most  excellent  Princesse  Elizabeth  by  the  grace  of  God  Quene  of 
England  ....  Translated  oute  of  Latten  in  to  Englishe  by  Richard 
Shacklock  M.  of  Arte  and  student  of  the  Ciuill  Lawes  in  Louaine. 
Imprinted  at  Antwerp  by  yEgidius  Diest,  Anno  M.  D.  LXV.  Sm. 
8vo.    R. 

A — K  in  eights. 

On  the  back  of  the  title  are  two  stanzas  of  seven  lines,  headed  "  The  Translatovr." 
The  concluding  pages  are  occupied  by  an  epistle  from  Shacklock  "  To  M.  Doctor 
Haddon,"  from  Antwerp,  27th  March  [1565]. 

A  Learned  and  very  Eloqvent  Treatie,  writen  in  Latin  by 

the  famouse  man  Hieronymus  Osorius  Bishop  of  Sylua  in  Portugal, 
wherein  he  confuteth  a  certayne  Aunswere  made  by  M.  Walter 
Haddon  against  the  Epistle  of  the  said  Bishoppe  vnto  the  Oueenes 
Maiestie.  Translated  into  English  by  lohn  Fen  student  of  Diuinitie 
in  the  Vniuersitie  of  Louen.  Lovanii,  Apud  loannern  Foiilermn,  Anno 
1568.    Cum  Gratia  &  Priuilegio.    Sm.  8vo. 

*,  4  leaves,  with  the  title,  &c. ;  A — Nn  4  in  eights. 

Prefixed  is  an  address  to  the  Catholic  Reader,  dated  by  Fen  from  Louvain, 
Nov.  I,  1568. 

O'SULLIVAN,  Philippus.  Historiae  CathoHcae  Ibernise  Com- 
pendivm.  Domino  Philippo  Avstriaco  IIII.  Hispaniarum,  Indiarum 
....  regi  Catholico,  ....  dicatum.  A  D.  Philippo  Osulleuano  Bearro 
Iberno.  Cum  facultate  S.  Inquisitionis,  Ordinarij  &  Regis.  Vlyssi- 
pone  exciisiim  a  Petro  Crash eeckio  regio  typograplw  anno  Domini  1621. 
4to.    G.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A— Nn  in  eights,  except  Cc,  which  has  only 
4  leaves. 


1072  0  TFRID  US—OUTCR  Y. 

OTFRIDUS.  Otfridi  Evangeliorvm  liber  :  ueterum  Germanorum 
grammatics,  poeseos,  theologiae,  prseclarum  monimentum.  Evange- 
lien  Buch,  in  altfrenckischen  reimen,  durch  Otfriden  von  Weissen- 

burg,  Munch  zu  S.  Gallen,  vor  sibenhundert  jaren  beschriben 

Basileae.    M.D.LXXI.    Sm.  8vo.    BR.  M. 

Title,  preliminaries,  and  introduction,  44  leaves  ;  pp.  1-574- 

OTHER  THUS  IT  IS  :  or  thus  it  shoulde  bee.  [Colophon.] 
Imprinted  at  Lojtdon  without  Aldersgate,  in  little  Brittaine  by  Alexmider 
Lacy.    [n.  d:\    A  Broadside.    Black  letter. 

Eleven  seven-line  stanzas,  with  a  burden,  printed  in  two  columns.  Reprinted  in 
"  Anc.  Ballads,"  &c.,  in  1867.     No  other  copy  is  known. 

OTHONIS,  Episcopi  Augustani  Edictum.  Specialium  svpplica- 
tionum  et  precum  per  universam  Dicecesim  Augustanam,  pro  cele- 
bratione  Generalis  Concilii,  extirpatione  hseresum  et  Christianorum 
omnium  unione  publicatum.    Dilingce.    iSSi-    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

OTTLEY,  W.  Y.  A  Series  of  Plates,  engraved  after  the  Paintings 
and  Sculptures  of  the  most  Eminent  masters  of  the  Early  Florentine 
School  .  .  .  London.    1826.    Large  folio.    Proofs. 

This  work  was  left  incomplete,  and  has  no  regular  title-page. 

The  Italian  School  of  Design :  Being  a  series  of  Facsimiles 

of  Original  Drawings  .  .  .  By  William  Young  Ottley.    London.    1823. 
Folio. 

OTWAY,  Thomas.  Works,  consisting  of  his  Plays,  Poems,  and 
Letters.    London,  1757.    3  vols.    Sm.  8vo. 

The  Works  of  Thomas  Otway.    With  Notes,  Critical  and  Ex- 


planatory, and  a  Life  of  the  Author,  by  Thomas  Thornton.    London : 
18 1 3.    3  vols.    8vo.    Portrait  and  plates.    BL.  M. 

OUTCRY.  The  Out-Crie  of  the  Kings  at  Westminster,  or,  the 
Junto  who  call  themselves  a  Parliament.  For  their  Lamentable  bang- 
ing at  Colchester,  and  the  Havock  made  of  their  Sainted  Army  there, 
conducted  by  the  gowty  Rebel  Tom  Fairfax,  by  the  gallant  Royallists 
under  the  command  of  the  Right  Honourable  the  Earle  of  Norwich 
and  the  most  valiant  Sir  Charles  Lucas  :  As  also  for  the  routing  of 
Lambert  in  the  North,  the  Revolt  of  the  Navie,  the  losse  of  Pontefract 
Castle,  and  for  the  good  affections  of  their  Soveraigne.  Printed  in  tlie 
year.  1648.    4to. 

Four  leaves.     In  prose  and  verse. 

On  the  title  are  some  verses  headed,  "  To  King  Gowty-Legs,"  i.e.,  Fairfax,  signed 
M  ercurius]  M[elancholicus]. 


OVALLE—OVERBURY.  1073 

OVALLE,  AlonSO  DE.    Historica  Relacion  Del  Reyno  de  Chile, 
Y  de  las  missiones,  y  ministerios  que  exercita  en  el  la  Compania  de 

lesvs En  Roma,  por  Francisco  Catiallo,    M.DC.XL  VI. 

Folio.    R.  M. 

Before  the  title  a  leaf  which  begins,  "  Varias  y  cvTiosas  noticias  del  Reino  de 
Chile  ; "  title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  A — LU  in  fours  ;  then  3  leaves  of  wood- 
cuts paged  1-6,  followed  by  6  others  paged  1-12  ;  a  large  folding  map  ;  and  plates  at 
pages  51,  59,  91,  93  (2  plates),  104,  170,  186-7  (3  plates),  2S9,  302,  following  322  are  9 
plates  containing  25  portraits  of  Governors,  preceded  by  a  leaf  printed  in  large 
letterpress  capitals  beginning,  "  Gvbematores  periUvstres ;"  then  follow  1 2  half-length 
portraits  preceded  by  a  similar  leaf  beginning,  "  Invicti  duces ;"  at  393  a  plate  of  the 
Virgin,  inscribed  beneath,  "  Vera  efigies  alterius." 

Historica  Relacion  del  Reyno  de  Chile Roma 


M.DCXLVI.    Folio. 

This  edition  corresponds  with  the  other  in  every  respect  except  that  the  two 
leaves  which  precede  respectively  the  portraits  of  the  "  Gubematores  "  and  "  Invicti 
duces  "  are  printed  from  copper  plates  instead  of  letterpress. 

Historica  Relatione  Del  Regno  di  Cile,  E  delle  missioni,  e 


ministerii  che  esercita  in  quelle  la  Compagnia  di  Giesv.  A  nostro 
Signer  Giesv  Christo  Dio  Hvomo,  &  alia  Santissima  Vergine,  e  Madre 
Maria  Signora  del  Cielo,  e  della  Terra,  &  alii  Santi  Gioseffo,  Gioachino, 
Anna  suoi  Parenti,  &  Aui.  Alonso  d'Ovaglie  De  la  Compagna  di  Giesv 
Natiuo  di  S.  Giacomo  de  Cile,  e  suo  Procuratore  a  Roma.  In  Roma, 
Appresso  Francesco  Caualli.  M.  DC.  XL  VI.  Folio.  Tlie  edges  uncut. 
Title  and  prologue,  3  leaves;  "  Auuertimenti "  for  placing  the  plates,  i  leaf; 
pp.  1-378,  followed  by  an  unpaged  leaf,  "  Seconda  protesta  dell'  autore  ;"  24  large 
woodcuts  printed  on  9  leaves,  paged  1-12  and  1-6;  a  folding  map  of  Chili  and  12 
plates  engraved  on  copper  without  numbers. 

OVERALL,  Bishop.  BishopOverairsConvocation-Book,MDCVL 
Concerning  the  Government  of  God's  Catholick  Church,  and  the  King- 
doms of  the  whole  world.    London  .  .  .  1690.    4to. 

A— XX  3  in  fours,  title  on  A  2,  and  sig.  N  has  only  2  leaves.    With  portraits  of 
Archbishop  Bancroft  and  Bishop  Overall  by  R.  White. 

OVERBURY,  Sir  Thomas.  A  Wife.  Now  the  Widdow  of  Sir 
Tho :  Overbvrye.  Being  A  most  exquisite  and  singular  Poem  of  the 
choise  of  a  Wife.  Wherevnto  are  added  many  witty  Characters,  and 
conceited  Newes,  written  by  himselfe  and  other  learned  Gentlemen  his 
friends  :  Dignum  laude  virum  ....  The  fourth  Impression,  enlarged 
with  more  Characters,  than  any  of  the  former  Editions.  London  Printed 
by  G.  Eld,  for  Lawrctice  Lisle,and  are  to  be  sold  in  Panics  Church-yard, 
at  the  Tygers  Iiead.  1614.  4to.  The  edges  uncut. 
A — F  2  in  fours  ;  G — H  in  fours. 
6  L 


1074  OVERBURY. 

OVERBURY,  Sir  Thomas.  Sir  Thomas  Ouerbury  His  Wife, 
with  Additions  of  New  Characters,  and  many  other  Wittie  Conceits 
neuer  before  Printed.  The  eleuenth  Impression.  London,  Printed  for 
Lanrence  Lisle,  and  are  to  be  sold  by  Henry  Seile  at  the  Tigers-head  in 
Pauls  Church-yard,  1622.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

A— V  in  eights.    From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

• Sir  Thomas  Ouerburie  His  Wife.    With  Additions  of  New 

Characters,  and  many  other  Wittie  Conceits  neuer  before  Printed. 
The  thirteenth  Impression.  London,  Printed  for  Robert  Allot,  and  are 
to  bee  sold  at  the  signe  of  the  Beare  in  Pauls  Church-yard.  1628.  Sm.  8vo. 

A — V  in  eights. 

It  must  be  considered  somewhat  doubtful  whether  the  contents  of  this  volume, 
in  its  enlarged  shape,  not  only  did  not  proceed  from  more  than  one  pen,  but  whether 
Overbury  had  any  hand  at  all  in  the  supplementary  matter.  For  an  account  of  some 
of  the  corruptions,  with  which  all  the  early  printed  texts  abound,  see  Collier's  "  Bibl. 
Cat.,"  ii.,  66-70. 

The  First  and  Second  part  of  The  Remedy  of  Loue.   Written 

by  Sir  Thomas  Overbvry  Knight.  London,  Printed  by  Nicholas  Okes, 
and  are  to  be  sold  by  lohn  Wcls  at  his  shop  in  Fetter-latie  and  in  the 
Temple.    1620.    Sm.  8vo.    R.  M. 

A — B  in  eights,  first  and  last  leaves  blank. 

A  posthumous  publication,  dedicated  by  the  publisher  "  To  the  worthy  Gentle- 
man, and  his  much  honoured  friend,  Master  lohn  Onley."  Of  this  book,  which  is 
printed  with  a  type  border  at  the  top  and  bottom  of  the  page,  the  only  other  copy 
known  is  in  the  British  Museum. 

It  is  not  improbable  that  there  was  an  earlier  edition  of  this  little  volume  ;  for 
"a  booke  called  the  'Remedie  of  Loue'"  was  registered  by  George  Norton,  21st  of 
November,  1614.    See  Arber's  "  Transcript,  iii.,  256. 

Sir  Thomas  Overbvry  His  observations  in  his  Travailes  vpon 


the  State  of  the  Xvii.  Provinces  as  they  stood  Anno  Dom.  1609. 
The  Treatie  of  Peace  being  then  on  foote.  Printed.  MDC.  XXVI. 
4to. 

A — D  3  in  fours. 

First  edition.  No  earlier  edition  is  now  known,  but  the  work  was  registered 
28th  January,  161 5-16. 

The  Bloody  downfall  Of  Adultery.  Murder,  Ambition,  At 


the  end  of  which  are  added  Westons,  and  Mistris  Turners  last  Teares, 
shed  for  the  Murder  of  Sir  Thomas  Ouerbury  poysoned  in  the  Tower  ; 
who  for  the  fact,  suffered  deserued  execution  at  Tiburne  the  14.  of 
Nouember  last.  161 5.  Printed  at  London  for  R.  H.  and  are  to  be  sold 
at  his  shop  at  tlie  Cardinalls  Hat  zvithout  Newgate.   [1616.]    4to.   BL.  M. 

A — D  in  fours,  including  a  portrait  of  Overbury. 

On  C  4  begins  "  Mistris  Turners  Teares,"  a  poem  in  four-line  stanzas,  occupying 


OVERTON— OVIDIUS.  1075 

eight  pages ;  the  rest  of  the  tract  is  prose.     On  the  title  are  woodcut  portraits  of 
Turner  and  Weston. 

From  Mr.  Corser's  library. 

OVERTON,  R.  Articles  of  High  Treason  exhibited  against 
Cheap-side  Crosse.  With  the  Last  Will  and  Testament  of  the  said 
Crosse.  And  certaine  Epitaphs  upon  her  Tombe.  Newly  Printed  and 
newly  come  forth,  with  his  Holinesse  Priviledge,  to  prevent  false  Copies. 
London,  Printed  for  R.  Overton,  1642.    4to. 

Four  leaves. 

OVIDIUS  NASO,  PUBLIUS.  [Opera.]  [On  B  i.]  P.  Ovidii 
Nasonis  Metamorphoseos  liber  primvs.  [Colophon.]  Impressum  nene- 
tiis  per  Bernardinum  de  Nouaria.  M.cccc.Lxxxvi.  Die  xiii.  Jamiarii. 
[Vol.  II.  folio  i]  P.  Ovi.  Nasonis  Svlmonensis  Poetae  clarissimi  He- 
roidvm  alias  Epistolarvm :  liber  vnicvs  incipit.  [Colophon.]  Im- 
pressum Veneciis  per  Benardinnm  de  Nouaria  die  xxvii.  Jioueinbris 
MxcccLxxxvi.  Feliciter.    Folio.    2  vols  in  i.    BL.  M. 

A— R  in  eights  ;  S,  lo  leaves,  the  last  blank  ;  a— g  in  eights,  the  first  leaf  of  a 
blank  ;  h,  lo  leaves  ;  i— m  in  eights,  first  leaf  of  i  blank  ;  n,  6  leaves ;  o— z  in  eights ; 
&,  8  leaves ;  aa — cc  in  eights  ;  dd— ee,  6  leaves  each. 

Quae   hoc  volumine  continentvr.    Ad  Marinum  Sannutum 


Epistola  qui  apud   grjecos   scripserint  ^ETa^ofpuVn? Ovidii 

Metamorphoseon  libri  qvindecim.  Aldvs.  [Colophon.]  Venctiis  in 
Aedibus  Aldi.  Mense  Octobri.  M.D.II.  [Vol.  II.]  Pvblii  Ovidii  Nasonis, 
Qvae  hoc  in  libello  continentvr.  Fastorvm  Libri.  VI.  De  Tristibvs 
Libri.  V.  De  Ponto.  Libri.  IIII.  Aldvs.  [Colophon.]  Venctijs  in  Aca- 
demia  Aldi  Mense  Febr.  M.DIII.    [Vol.  III.]    Pvblii  Ovidii  Nasonis 

Heroidvm  Epistolae.    Avli  Sabini  Epistola;  tres [Colophon.] 

Venetiis  in  Aedibus  Aldi  Romani,  Mense  Decevibri.  M.DII.  3  vols. 
Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

From  Dr.  Hawtre/s  collection.     There  is  another  copy  in  the  library,  which  is 
from  the  collection  of  the  President  De  Thou,  with  his  arms  on  the  sides. 

Opera,  D.  Heinsius  textum  recensuit.    Acced.  breves  notae  ex 


coll.  codd.  Scaligeri  et  Palatinis  Janl  Gruteri.    Liigd.  Bat.  Ex  offic. 
Elzeviriana.    1629.    3  vols.    Sm.  8vo.    BL.  M. 

Opera  omnia,  cum  integris  N.  Heinsii   et  variorum   notis. 


Anist.  1702.    3  vols.    8vo. 

Opera  omnia,  cum  notis  variorum,  quibus  suas  adjecit  P.  Bur- 

mannus.    Amstelod.    1727.    4  vols.    4to.    Large  paper.    R.  M. 


1076  OVIDIUS. 

OVIDIUS  NASO,  PUBLIUS.     Tutti   gli   Libri  de  Ouidio  Meta- 
morphoseos  tradotti  dal  litteral  in  uerso  uulgar  con  le  sue  Allegoric  in 

prosa [Colophon.]  ....  stampato  in    Venetia  per  lacomo   da 

Lcco MD.XXII.    4to.    Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

A— Z  4  in  eights. 

Las  Transformaciones  de  Ovidio  en  lengva  Espanola,  repar- 


tidas  en  qvinze  libros,  con  las  Allegorias  al  fin  dellos,  y  sus  figuras, 

para  prouecho  de  los  Artifices En  Anvcrs,  En  casa  de  Pedro 

Bellero.    M.D.XCV.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodcuts.    R.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  i8  leaves ;  A— Ff  in  eights  ;  Gg,  lo  leaves. 

The  .  XV.  Bookes  of  P.  Ouidius  Naso,  entytuled  Metamor- 
phosis, translated  oute  of  Latin  into  English  meeter,  by  Arthur  Golding 
Gentleman,  A  worke  very  pleasaunt  and  delectable. 

With  skill,  heede,  and  iudgement,  this  worke  must  be  read, 
For  else  to  the  Reader  it  standes  in  small  stead. 
1 575-  Imprinted  at  London,  by  Willyam  Seres.   [Colophon.]   Imprinted 
at  Lotidon  by  Willyam  Seres,  dwelling  at  the  west  end  of  Paides  church, 
at  the  signe  of  the  Hedgehogge.    1575.    4to.    Black  letter. 

A—  Cc  in  eights. 

Dedicated  in  verse  to  Robert,  Earl  of  Leicester. 

Golding  published  Books  I.-IV.  in  1565,  and  in  1567  he  brought  out  the  complete 
version.     The  present  is  the  second  edition. 

Ovid's  Metamorphosis  Englished,  Mythologiz'd,  and  Repre- 
sented in  Figures.  An  Essay  to  the  Translation  of  Virgil's  ./Eneis.  By 
G.[eorge]  S.[andys].  Imp7'inted  at  Oxford  by  loJin  Liclifield.  An.Dom. 
MDCXXXII.  Cum  Priuilegio  ad  imprimendam  hanc  Ouidij  Trans- 
lationem.    Folio. 

Frontispiece  and  engraved  title,  2  leaves  ;  printed  title  (with  "The  Minde  of 
the  Frontispiece  "on  the  back),  i  leaf  ;  Sandys's  dedication  to  the  King,  "A  Panegy- 
ricke  to  the  King,"  and  "  Vrania  to  the  Queene,"  by  the  same,  the  latter  »Vo  in 
verse,  and  "  To  the  Reader,"  together,  4  leaves ;  \,  4  leaves ;  A — Vw  2  in  fours. 

P.  Ouidii  Nasonis  desz  aller  sinnreichsten  Poeten  Metamor- 
phosis.   Das  ist  von  der  wunderbarlicher  Verenderung  der  Gestalten 

der  Menschen,  Thier  vnd  anderer  Creaturen  &c Etwan  durch 

den  Wolgelerten  M.  Albrechten  von  Halberstat  inn  Reime  vveisz  ver- 
teutscht,  Jetz  erstlich  gebessert  vnd  mit  Figuren  der  Fabeln  gezirt, 

durch  Georg  Wickram  zu  Colmar.  &c Gctruckt  zu  Meintz 

bei  luo  Schoffer. M.D.XL  V.    Folio.     Woodcuts. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  10  leaves  ;  b— z  and  A— Q  in  fours. 

Trois  premiers  liures  de  la  Metamorphose  d'Ovide,  Traduictz 


en  vers  Fra9ois.    Le  premier  &  second,  par  CI.  Marot.    Le  tiers  par  B. 
Aneav.    Mythologizez  par  Allegories  Historiales,  Naturelles  &  moralles. 


OVID  I  us.  1077 

....  Illustr^z  de  figures  &  images  conuenantes.    Avec  vne  prepara- 
tion de  voie  a  la  lecture  &  intelligence  des  Poetes  fabuleux.    A  Lyon, 

par  Guillaviiie  Roville,a  Vescv  de  Venise.  1556 [Colophon.]   Im- 

prime.  Par  Mace  Bonhomme,  a  Lyon.    Sm.  8vo.    G.  M. 
Title  and  preliminaries,  22  leaves  ;  pp.  1-266. 

OVIDIUS  NASO,  PUBLius.  Les  Metamorphoses  d'Ovide, 
gravees  sur  les  desseins  des  meilleurs  peintres  Frangais.  Par  les 
soins  des  S"  le  Mire  et  Basin  Graveurs.    Paris,    1767.    4to.    G.  M. 

Excellente    figueren    ghesneden    vuyten    vppersten    Poete 

Ouidius  vuyt  v>'fthien  boucken  der  veranderinghe  met  huerlier  bediet- 

sele.    Duer  Guilliaume  Borluit  burgher  derstede  van  Ghendt.    Gepritit 

tot  Lions,  By  nty  Janvan  Totirnes.    1557.    Sm.  8vo.    Woo^aits.    R.  M. 

a — m  4  in  eights.    With  woodcut  border  to  each  page. 


La  vita  et  Metamorfoseo  d'Ovidio,  Figurato  &  abbreuiato  in 

forma  d'Epigrammi  de  M.  Gabriello  Symeoni.  Con  altre  Stanze  sopra 
gl'effetti   della  Luna :    il  Ritratto  d'vna   Fontana  d'Ouernia :   &   vn 

Apologia  generale  nella  fine  del  libro A  Lione per  Giouanni 

di  Tomes  nella  via  Resina  1559.    Sm.  8vo.     Woodciits.    V.  M. 

a — q  in  eights,  the  last  bearing  only  an  ornament ;  A,  8  leaves,  and  A  and  B,  8 
leaves  each.    With  woodcut  border  to  each  page. 

Epistole  d'Ovidio,  di  latino  in  lingua  toscana  tradotte,  & 

nuouamente  con  somma  diligentia  corrette.  MDXXXVIL  Con 
Priuilegio.  [Colophon.]  In  Vinegia.M.D.XXXVIL  Sm.  8vo.  Wood- 
cuts.   G.  M. 

A — H  in  eights  ;  I,  12  leaves,  the  last  blank. 

-= —  Hie  hebt  sich  an  dz  buch  Ouidii  die  liebe  zu  erwerben.  Vnd 
ouch  die  liebe  Zu  uerschmehen.  Als  doctor  Hartlieb  von  latin  zu 
tiitsch  bracht  hat  durch  bet  vnd  gescheftte  eines  fiirsten  von  osterich. 
[Colophon.]  Getrucktvndvolc7idet zu  Straszbiirgvo Martiiio  Schotte  nack 
Cristiis gcbiirt  M.CCCC.LXXXIIII  Jar.  Folio.  Woodcuts.  R.  M. 
a — e  in  eights  ;  e — 1  in  sixes  and  eights  alternately,  the  last  leaf  blank. 

All  Ovids  Elegies  :  3.  Bookes.    By  C.  M.  Epigrams  by  J.  D. 

At  Middlebovrgh.    [«.  i/.]    Sm.  8vo.    R. 

A — F  in  eights. 

This  is  one  of  the  early  reprints  of  the  original  and  most  rare  impression  of 
Marlowe's  translation  of  Ovid's  Elegies  and  Davies's  Epigrams.  Though  it  bears 
the  imprint  of  Middleburgh,  it  was  no  doubt  from  a  London  press.  The  original 
edition  may  be  assigned  to  1596  or  1597;  but  the  present  reissue  can  hardly  be 
earlier  than  1620.  Here  the  elegies  precede  the  epigrams,  whereas  in  the  first 
edition  the  epigrams  occur  first,  the  elegies  following  with  a  separate  title-page. 


1 078  O  VIE  D  0—0  WEN. 

OVIEDO  Y  VALDES,  Gonzalez  Fernandez  de.  Ouiedo  de 
la  natural  hystoria  de  las  Indias.  [Colophon.]  Elfsente  tratado  in- 
titidado  Ouiedo  de  la  tiatural  hystoria  d'  las  ittdias  se  imprimio  a  costas 
del  alitor  Goqalo  Fernadez  de  Ouiedo  aVs  de  Valdes.  For  industria  de 
viaestre  Rcmo  de  petras :  x  se  acabo  enla  cibdad  de  Toledo  a.  xv  dias  del 
mes  de  Hebrero.  de  M.D.xxvi  anos.  Folio.  Black  letter.  R.  M. 
A— C  in  eights,  D — H  in  sixes. 

Coronica  de  las  Indias.    La  hystoria  general  de  las  Indias 


agora  nueuamente  impressa  corregida  y  emendada.  1547.  Y  con  la 
conquista  del  Peru.  [Colophon.]  .  .  .  .  se  acabo  &  Imprimio  en  la  muy 
noble  Ciudad  de  Salamanca  en  casa  de  Juan  de  Junta,  a  dos  dias  del 
Mes  de  Mayo  Afio  de  mil y  quinientos  &  quarenta  &  siete  Ailos.  Folio. 
Black  letter.    BR.  M. 

Title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves ;  folios  i.-cxcij.  This  is  followed  by  a  new  title  : 
"  Conquista  del  Peru.  Verdadera  relacion  de  la  conquista  del  Peru  &  prouincia 
del  Cuzco  llamada  la  nueua  Castilla "  [Colophon.]  Fiie  Impreso  en  Sala- 
manca por  Juan  de  Junta :  acabose  a  cinco  dias  del  mes  de  Julio  alio  del  nascimiento 
de  nuestro  seiior  Jesu  Christo  de  Mil  &^  Quinietifos  Sr"  quarenta  Ss^  siete  arios." 
This  contains  folios  i.-xxij.,  including  the  title.  The  colophon  leaf  is  without  a 
number,  but  it  forms  a  23rd  leaf. 

First  edition.  This  is  quite  a  distinct  work  from  the  "  Natural  hystoria  de  las 
Indias,"  described  above. 

La  historia  general  de  las  Indias.    [Colophon.]    Fin  de  la 


primera  parte  dela  general y  natural  historia  de  las  indias  ylas  y  tierra 

fir  me  del  mar  oceano  :  que  son  de  la  corona  real  de  Castilla La 

qual  se  acabo  &  imprimio  en  la  viuy  noble  &  muy  leal  cibdad  de  Seuilla, 
en  la  empreta  de  Juani  Cromberger,  el postrcro  dia  del  mes  de  Setiembre. 

Ailo  de  mil y  quinientos y  treynta y  cinco  Attos. 1[  Libro.XX.  De  la 

segunda  parte  de  la  general  historia  de  las  Indias.   Escripta  por  el  Capi- 

tan  Gonqalo  Fernandez  de  Ouiedo,  y  Valdes Que  trata  del 

estrecho  de  Magallans.  ^  En  Valladolid.  Por  Francisco  Fernandez  de 
Cordoua,  Impressor  desuAIagestad.  Anode.  M.D.LviJ.  In  i  vol.  Folio. 
Black  letter.    R.  M. 

The  first  part :  title  and  preliminaries,  4  leaves  ;  folios  i.-cxciij.,  including  2  leaves 
which  follow  the  colophon.  At  the  end  of  the  last  leaf  is  an  autograph  inscription 
of  the  author.     Part  2  :  folios  i.-bciiij.,  including  the  title. 

OWEN,  H.,  AND  BLAKEWAY,  J.  B.    History  of  Shrewsbury. 
London.    1825.    2  vols.    4to.    Plates.    R.  M. 

In  this  copy  the  arms  are  emblazoned. 

OWEN,  Jo.  Epigrammatum  loannis  Owen  Cambro-Britanni  Libri 
Tres.  Ad  ....  D.  Mariam  Neuille,  Comitis  Dorcestriae  filiam,  Patronam 

Suam.    Londini,  Ex  officina  Humfredi  Lowiies 1607.    Sm.  8vo. 

A— F  ii  in  twelves.  Then  follows  "Epigrammatum  ....  liber  singularis," 
1607.    A,  2  leaves ;  B — D  ii  in  twelves. 


OWEN—OXINDEN.  1079 

OWEN,  Lewis.  Specvlvm  Jesviticvm.  Or,  The  lesvites  Looking- 
Glasse.  WTierein  they  may  behold  Ignatius  (their  Patron)  his  Pro- 
gresse,  their  owne  Pilgrimage  :  His  life,  their  beginning,  proceedings, 
propagation,  and  present  state  or  greatnesse.  Together  with  a  true 
Catalogue  of  all  their  Houses  ....  which  may  serue  as  a  fore-warn- 
ing for  England,  to  chase  away  in  time  this  trayterous  and  unsociable 
Societie,  or  disordered  Jesuitical  Order.  By  L.  O.  that  hath  bene  an 
occular  witnesse  of  their  Impostures  and  Hipocrisie.  Herba  mala  citb 
crescit.   London,  Printed  by  T.  C.  for  Michael  Spar ke  ....  1629.  4to. 

A — K  in  fours,  K  4  blank. 

Dedicated  to  Sir  Henry  Martin,  Judge  of  the  Court  of  Admiralty. 

OWEN,  Richard.  Odontography  ;  or  a  Treatise  of  the  Compara- 
tive Anatomy  of  the  Teeth.    London  ....  1840-5.  2  vols.    4to.   Plates. 

OWL'S  ALMANACK.  The  Owles  Almanacke.  Prognosticating 
many  strange  accidents  which  shall  happen  to  this  Kingdome  of  Great 
Britaine  this  yeere,  1618.  Calculated  as  well  for  the  Meridian  mirth  of 
London,  as  any  other  part  of  Great  Britaine.  Found  in  an  luy-bush 
written  in  old  Characters,  and  now  published  in  English  by  the  paine- 
fuU  labours  of  M"'.  locundary  Merry-braines.  London,  Printed  by  E.  G. 
for  Laivrenee  Lisle,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  shop  in  Pauls  Church-yard 
at  tlie  signe  of  the  Tygres-Jiead.    161 8.    4to.    O.  M. 

A — H  in  fours. 

This  facetious  tract,  written  in  the  style  of  "  The  Raven's  Almanac,"  by  Decker, 
1609,  is  dedicated  to  Sir  Timothy  Thornhill  by  the  publisher.  There  is  also  "  The 
Owles  Epistle  to  the  Rauen,"  in  which  Decker's  tract  is  mentioned.  On  the  title-page 
is  a  woodcut  of  an  owl  in  a  study,  standing  on  a  chair,  and  holding  a  pen  in  its  claw. 

The  work  is  reviewed  at  some  length  by  Collier  ("  Bibl.  Cat.,"  ii.,  80-3),  who 
seems  incUned  to  attribute  it  to  Decker  from  the  terms  of  the  epistle  above-men- 
tioned. Mr.  Corser  ("  Collectanea,"  v.,  171),  considers  that  it  may  safely  be  attri- 
buted to  Decker.     From  Mr.  Corser's  collection. 

OXINDEN,  Henry,  of  Barham.  Common-place  book,  1647-60. 
Folio. 

MS.  From  the  library  of  Lee  Warley,  dispersed  at  Canterbury  a  few  years  ago. 
This  is  a  singular  collection  of  prose  and  verse,  religion  and  licentiousness.  It  con- 
tains anecdotes  of  Marlowe,  Jonson,  &c.  The  volume,  which  is  in  the  original 
vellum  binding,  is  lettered  on  the  back,  "Miscellany,  1617.  MS.  by  H.  O."  On  one 
side  of  the  cover  occurs,  "  Lee  Warley,  Canterbury,  1764,"  with  "  Adjutor  mens  esto 
Deus,"  "  Hodie  mihi,  eras  alteri,"  and  other  mottoes. 

This  curious  volume  contains,  among  other  matters,  a  list  of  122  old  English 
plays,  bound  in  six  volumes,  at  that  time  (1647-60)  in  the  possession  of  Oxinden. 

Religionis  funus,  &  hypocritae  finis Londini,  Excudit 

Tho.  Whittaker,  M.DC.XL.VIL    4to.     The  edges  uncut. 
Portrait,  title,  and  preliminaries,  together  4  leaves;  pp.  1-22. 
The  portrait  is  extremely  well  executed,  but  has  not  the  name  of  the  engraver. 


i 


(;o^ 


University  of  California 

SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 

305  De  Neve  Drive  -  Parking  Lot  17  •  Box  951388 

LOS  ANGELES,  CALIFORNIA  90095-1388 

Return  this  material  to  the  library  from  which  it  was  borrowed. 


k 


UC  SOUTHERU  REGIOtiW.  LIBRARY  FACILITY 


D    000  640  503    9 


^^ 


i\b. 


':^liis 


