AN  INTRODUCTION  TO 
THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 


'    AN  INTRODUCTION 

TO   THE 

STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 


BY  /  ' 

WILLIAM  HENRY  HUDSON 

M 

STAKF-LECTURER   IN   LITERATURE  TO  THE   UNIVERSITY  EXTENSION 

BOARD   OF   THE   UNIVERSITY  OF   LONDON 

EDITOR   OF    "the  ELIZABETHAN  SHAKESPEARE" 

GENERAL   EDITOR   OF   "  POETRY   AND    LIFE    SERIES "  ETC. 


(I 


k  SECOND   EDITION    ENLARGED 

I- 


LONDON 

GEORGE  G.  HARRAP  &  COMPANY 

3  PORTSMOUTH  STREET  KINGSWAY  W.C. 
1913 


aURNBULL  AND  SPEARS,  PRINTERS,   EDINBURGH 


PN4S 
Hns 


PREFACE 


THE  aim  of  this  book  is  to  set  forth,  in  the 
simplest  possible  way,  some  of  the  questions 
to  be  considered  and  the  principles  to  be 
kept  in  view  in  the  systematic  study  of  literature. 
Despite  the  large  and  ever  increasing  number  of  works 
which  deal  with  special  aspects  of  literature  on  the 
historical  and  critical  sides,  I  believe  that  there  is  still 
a  place  for  a  compact  and  fairly  comprehensive  volume 
of  this  kind.  This  faith  may  indeed  be  taken  for 
granted,  as  otherwise  the  book  would  not  have  been 
written.  I  should,  however,  add  that  the  utility  of  the 
plan  adopted  in  it  has  been  established  by  practical 
experience,  since  much  of  its  substance  has  already 
been  used  and  tested  in  a  course  of  lectures  delivered 
before  University  Extension  audiences  at  the  Municipal 
Technical  Institute,  West  Ham,  and  the  Polytechnic, 
Woolwich.  The  fact  that  these  lectures  were  followed 
with  sustained  interest,  in  the  one  case  by  upward  of 
500,  in  the  other  by  over  100,  listeners,  of  whom, 
while  many  were  engaged  in  teaching,  the  majority 
were  concerned  with  literature  only  as  general  readers, 
encourages  me  to  think  that  the  same  matter,  put  into 
the  form  of  a  book,  may  projfe  equally  helpful  to  a 
wider  circle  of  students. 

In  the  course  itself,  ample  illustrations  were  provided 
of  every  point  considered.      In  reducing  the  contents 

5 

267709 


6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

of  twenty-five  lectures  to  meet  the  requirements  of  a 
not  too  bulky  volume,  while  adding  a  good  deal  that 
could  not  well  be  included  in  them,  I  have  been  com- 
pelled to  omit  quotations  from  and  detailed  analyses  of 
particular  works.  I  must  therefore  ask  the  reader  to 
remember  that  this  book  is  planned  as  a  guide  and 
companion  to  his  own  study,  and  that,  while  I  hope  it 
may  be  interesting  and  suggestive  in  itself,  the  value 
of  the  things  said  in  it  must  ultimately  be  sought  in 
their  application. 

It  will  be  found  that  little  place  is  given  to  questions 
of  abstract  aesthetics.  These,  as  well  as  all  details  of 
a  purely  scholastic  character,  have  been  purposely 
avoided,  as  my  desire  throughout  has  been  to  make 
my  volume  of  practical  service  to  those  students  for 
whom  literature  is  primarily  a  means  of  enjoyment  and 
a  help  to  life. 

William  Henry  Hudson 


NOTE  TO  THE  SECOND  EDITION 

In  the  two  and  a  half  years  since  this  book  was  published 
much  evidence  has  reached  me  from  many  quarters  of  its 
practical  usefulness  both  to  students  of  literature  and  to 
general  readers.  I  am  thus  able  to  feel  with  satisfaction  that 
the  objects  for  which  it  was  written,  as  explained  in  the  original 
preface,  have  to  some  extent  at  least  been  attained.  I  have 
seen  no  occasion  to  make  any  changes  in  the  text  for  this  new 
edition ;  but  I  have  added  an  appendix,  in  which  I  have  said 
something  more  about  the  question  of  personality  in  literature, 
have  dealt  more  fully  with  the  treatment  of  nature  in  poetry, 
and  have  offered  some  suggestions  for  the  study  of  the  essay 
and  the  short  story  as  forms  of  literary  art.  I  hope  that  the 
value  of  the  book  may  be  increased  by  these  additions. 


CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  I 

SOME  WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE 

I.  The  Nature  and  Elements  of  Literature,  9-16.  II.  Literature  as  an 
Expression  of  Personality,  16-22.  III.  The  Study  of  an  Author— 
The   Chronological   and   Comparative    Methods    of    Study,    22-27. 

IV.  Biography,  its  Abuse  and  Use  in  the  Study  of  Literature,  27-33. 

V.  The  Study  of  Style  as  an  Index  of  Personality,  33-38.^- 

CHAPTER  II 

SOME  WAYS  OF   STUDYING  LITERATURE   (^concluded) 

\.  The  Historical  Study  of  Literature,  39-41.  II.  Literature  as  a  Social 
Product,  42-49.  III.  Taine's  Formula  of  Literary  Evolution — The 
Sociological  Aspect  of  Literature,  49-55.  IV.  The  Comparative 
Method  in  the  Historical  Study  of  Literature — The  Inter-relations 
of  Literatures,  55-66.     V.  The    Historical  Study  of  Style,   66-72. 

VI.  The  Study  of  Literary  Technique,  72-81. 

CHAPTER  III 

THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY 

I.  The  Nature  and  Elements  of  Poetry,  82-97.  II.  Poetry  as  an  In- 
terpretation of  Life — Poetry  and  Science — Poetic  Truth,  97-117. 
III.  Poetry  as  Revelation — Greatness  in  Poetry — Poetry  and  Philo- 
sophy, 1 1 8- 1 25.  IV.  The  Classification  of  Poetry,  125-150.  V. 
The  Study  of  Poetic  Form — Versification — Other  Aspects  of  Poetic 
Technique,  150-163.  VI.  The  Study  of  Poetry  and  the  Appreciation 
of  Poetry,  164- 167. 

7 


8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

CHAPTER  IV 

THE  STUDY   OF   PROSE   FICTION 

I.  The  Novel  and  the  Drama — Elements  of  Fiction,  168-172.  II.  Plot 
in  the  Novel,  172-189.  III.  Characterisation,  189-198.  IV.  The 
Relations  of  Plot  and  Character,  199-202.  V.  Dialogue,  202-205. 
VI.  Humour,  Pathos,  and  Tragedy — The  Painful  Emotions  in 
Fiction,  206-209.  VII.  Social  and  Material  Setting  in  Fiction — 
The  Historical  Novel— The  Use  of  Nature,  209-215.  VIII.  The 
Novelist's  Criticism  of  Life — Truth  and  Morality  in  Fiction— 
Romance  and  Realism — The  Moral  Responsibilities  of  Fiction, 
215-226. 

CHAPTER  V 

THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA 

I.  Dependence  of  the  Drama  upon  conditions  of  Stage-Representation, 
227-241.  II.  Plot  in  the  Drama,  241-245.  III.  Characterisation, 
246-263.  IV.  The  Natural  Divisions  of  a  Dramatic  Plot,  263-288. 
V.  Some  Features  of  Dramatic  Design — Parallelism — Contrast — 
Dramatic  Irony — Concealment  and  Surprise,  288-306.  VI.  The 
Different  Types  of  Drama,  306-335.  VII.  The  Drama  as  Criticism 
of  Life,  336-345- 

CHAPTER  VI 

THE   STUDY   OF  CRITICISM   AND   THE  VALUATION   OF 
LITERATURE 

I.  The  General  Nature  of  Criticism — Its  Abuse  and  Use,  346-355. 
II.  The  Functions  of  Criticism — Inductive  and  Judicial  Criticism, 
355.374.  III.  The  Study  of  Criticism  as  Literature — Personal 
Aspects,  374-384.  IV.  Historic  Aspects,  384-397.  V.  The  Problem 
of  the  Valuation  of  Literature,  398-421. 


APPENDIX 
L   ON   PERSONALITY   IN   LITERATURE 
IL    ON   THE  TREATMENT  OF   NATURE   IN   POETRY 
III.   THE   STUDY  OF   THE  ESSAY 

iv.  the  study  of  the  short  story 
Index     .... 


422-426 
426-441 
442-448 
449-460 

461-471 


AN  INTRODUCTION  TO 
THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

CHAPTER    I 

SOME    WAYS    OF    STUDYING    LITERATURE 

I 

HOWEVER  loosely  employed,  the  word  litera- 
ture commonly  carries  with  it,  alike  in  the 
language  of  criticism  and  in  that  of  every- 
day intercourse,  a  clear  suggestion  of  delimitation  ;  in 
the  one  case  as  in  the  other  a  distinction  is  ^j^^tia 
implied  between  books  which  in  the  literary  Litera- 
sense  are  books,  and  those  which  in  the  same  *^® ' 
sense  are  not.  But  where  is  the  boundary-line  to  be 
drawn  ?  The  moment  that  question  is  raised  our  diffi- 
culties begin.  In  many  instances  there  is,  of  course, 
no  room  for  discussion.  We  should  all  agree  about 
the  place  to  which,  for  example,  a  railway  guide  or  a 
manual  of  cookery,  Paradise  Lost  or  Sartor  Resartus 
should  respectively  be  assigned.  But  as  we  approach 
the  border-country  from  either  side  we  pass  into  the 
region  of  uncertainty  ;  and  with  this  uncertainty  the 
controversy  as  to  the  exact  definition  of  literature 
commences.  Shall  we  follow  Charles  Lamb  who 
(half  humorously,  it  is  true)  narrowed  the  conception 
of   literature  to    such   an    extent     that    he   excluded 


TO  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

the  works  of  Hume,  Gibbon,  and  Flavius  Josephus, 
together  with  directories,  almanacks,  and  "  draught- 
boards bound  and  lettered  on  the  back  "  ?  Shall  we 
adopt  the  view  of  Hallam,  who,  under  the  general  head 
of  literature,  comprised  jurisprudence,  theology,  and 
medicine  ?  Or,  if  Lamb  seems  to  err  on  the  one 
side  and  Hallam  on  the  other,  where  between  these 
two  extremes  is  any  just  mean  to  be  found  ?  These 
are  questions  to  which  no  final  answer  has  yet  been 
given,  and  it  is  fortunate  therefore  that  they  need  not 
detain  us  here.  We  shall  get  what  for  our  purposes 
should  be  an  idea  of  literature  at  once  sufficiently 
broad  and  sufficiently  accurate  if  we  lay  stress  upon 
two  considerations.  Literature  is  composed  of  those 
books,  and  of  those  books  only,  which,  in  the  first 
place,  by  reason  of  their  subject-matter  and  their  mode 
of  treating  it,  are  of  general  human  interest ;  and  in 
which,  in  the  second  place,  the  element  of  form  and 
the  pleasure  which  form  gives  are  to  be  regarded 
as  essential.  A  piece  of  literature  differs  from  a 
specialised  treatise  on  astronomy,  political  economy, 
philosophy,  or  even  history,  in  part  because  it  appeals, 
not  to  a  particular  class  of  readers  only,  but  to  men  and 
women  as  men  and  women  ;  and  in  part  because,  while 
the  object  of  the  treatise  is  simply  to  impart  knowledge, 
one  ideal  end  of  the  piece  of  literature,  whether  it 
also  imparts  knowledge  or  not,  is  to  yield  aesthetic 
satisfaction  by  the  manner  in  which  it  handles  its  theme. 
The  study  of  literature,  as  thus  conceived,  is  as  far 
Literature  ^^  possible  removed  both  from  the  academic 
and  Life,  formalism  and  from  the  dilettante  trifling,  with 
one  or  other  of  which  it  has,  in  popular  thought,  been 
too  often  associated.      Why  do  we  care  for  literature  ? 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITEEATUEE  ii    -^ 

We  care  for  literature  primarily  on  account  of  its  deep  ; 

and  lasting  human  significance.      A  great  book  grows" 

directly  out  of  life ;  in  reading  it,  we  are  brought  into 
large,  close,  and  fresh  relations  with  life  ;  and  in  that 
fact  lies  the  final  explanation  of  its  power.     Literature  > 
is  a  vital  record  of  what  men  have  seen  in  life,  what^ 
they  have  experienced  of  it,  what  they  have  thought 
and  felt  about  those  aspects  of  it  which  have  the  most         J 
immediate  and  enduring  interest  for  all  of  us.      It  is  p-^ 
thus  fundamentally  an  expression  of  life  through  the 
medium  of  language.     Such  expression  is   fashioned 
into   the  various   forms  of  literary  art,  and  these  in 
themselves  will,  in  their  proper  place  and  time,  enlist 
the  attention  of  the  student.     But  it  is  important  to 
understand,  to  begin  with,  that  literature  lives  by  virtue 
of  the  life  which  it  embodies.      By  remembering  this, 
we  shall  be  saved  from  the  besetting  danger  of  con- 
founding  the   study   of  literature  with   the   study   of  i 
philology,  rhetoric,  and  even  literary  technique.  -^ 

To  say  that  literature  grows  directly  out  of  life  is  of 

course  to  say  that  it  is  in  life  itself  that  we  have 

The  Tm- 
to  seek  the  sources  of  literature,  or,  in  other  pulses 

words,  the  impulses  which  have  ^iven  birth  to  j!®^^? 

r  ri .  -T-1       literature, 

the  various  forms  of  literary  expression      The 

classification  of  literature,  therefore,  is  not  conventional 
nor  arbitrary.  What  we  call  the  formal  divisions  of 
literature  must  be  translated  into  terms  of  life,  if  we 
would  understand  how  they  originated,  and  what  mean- 
ing they  still  have  for  us. 

The  great  impulses  behind  literature  may,  I  think,  ^ 
be  grouped  with  accuracy  enough  for  practical  purposes 
under  four  heads:  (i)  our  desire  for  self-expression  ; 
(2)  our  interest  in  people  and  their  doings ;  (3)  our 


12  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

interest  in  the  world  of  reality  in  which  we  live,  and 
in  the  world  of  imagination  which  we  conjure  into 
existence  ;  and  (4)  our  love  of  form  as  form.  We 
are  strongly  impelled  to  confide  to  others  what  we 
think  and  feel  ;  hence  the  literature  which  directly 
expresses  the  thoughts  and  feelings  of  the  writer. 
We  are  intensely  interested  in  men  and  women,  their 
lives,  motives,  passions,  relationships ;  hence  the 
literature  which  deals  with  the  great  drama  of  human 
life  and  action.  We  are  fond  of  telling  others  about 
the  things  we  have  seen  or  imagined ;  hence  the 
literature  of  description.  And,  where  the  aesthetic 
impulse  is  present  at  all,  we  take  a  special  satisfaction 
in  the  mere  shaping  of  expression  into  forms  of  beauty  ; 
hence  the  very  existence  of  literature  as  art.  Man,  as 
we  are  often  reminded,  is  a  social  animal ;  and  as  he 
is  thus  by  the  actual  constitution  of  his  nature  unable 
to  keep  his  experiences,  observations,  ideas,  emotions, 
fancies,  to  himself,  but  is  on  the  contrary  under  stress 
of  a  constant  desire  to  impart  them  to  those  about 
him,  the  various  forms  of  literature  are  to  be  regarded 
as  only  so  many  channels  which  he  has  opened  up  for 
himself  for  the  discharge  of  his  sociality  through  media 
which  in  themselves  testify  to  his  paramount  desire  to 
blend  expression  with  artistic  creation.  Moreover, 
these  impulses  behind  literature  explain  not.  only  the 
evolution  of  the  various  forms  of  literature,  but  also 
our  interest  (for  this  is  merely  the  reverse  side  of  the 
same  matter)  in  such  forms.  If  we  are  constrained  to 
make  others  the  confidants  of  our  thoughts  and  feel- 
ings, experiences,  observations,  imaginings,  we  are  glad 
to  listen  while  others  tell  us  of  theirs,  especially  when 
we  are  aware  that  the  range  of  their  commerce  with 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  13 

life,  the  depth  of  their  insight  or  passion,  their  power 
of  expression,  or  all  these  things  combined,  will  render 
their  utterances  of  unusual  interest  and  value  ;  while 
our  own  delight  in  artistic  beauty  will  make  us  readily 
responsive  to  the  beauty  in  which  a  master-artist 
embodies  what  he  has  to  say. 

Of  these  four  impulses,  the  last  named,  being  a 
factor  common  to  all  kinds  of  literature,  may  for  the 
moment  be  disregarded  ;  for  purposes  of  classification 
the  other  three  alone  count.  Now,  it  is  evident  that 
these  three  impulses  continually  merge  together  in 
life.  In  describing  what  we  have  seen  or  imagined,  N, 
for  example,  we  are  almost  certain  to  express  a  great 
deal  of  our  own^jthpught  and  feeling. ;  and  again,  any 
kind  of  narrative  will  be  found  almost  necessarily  to 
involve  more  or  less  description.  As  these  impulses 
merge  together  in  life,  sd  they  will  merge  together  in 
literature,  with  the  result  that  the  different  divisions 
of  literature  which  spring  from  them  will  inevitably  over- 
lap. We  simply  distinguish  them  one  from  another, 
therefojre — the  lyric  poem  from  the  epic,  the  drama 
from  the  descriptive  essay,  and  so  on — as  one  or  another 
of  the  generative  impulses  seems  to  predominate.  It 
is  in  this  way  that  we  obtain  a  basis  for  classification. 

It  is,  however,  a  basis  only.  To  make  our  survey 
even  approximately  complete,  we  must  go  ^^^ 
farther,  and  consider  not  only  the  impulses  Themes  of 
which  produce  literature,  but  also  the  subjects  ^^  ®^^  ^®' 
with  which  it  deals.  These,  being  almost  as  varied 
as  life  itself  (for  there  is  little  in  life  which  may  not 
be  made  a  theme  for  literature),  may  at  first  sight 
appear  to  defy  any  attempt  to  reduce  them  to 
systematic  statement.     But — still  having  regard  only 


14  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

to  practical  purposes — we  may  perhaps  venture  to 
/  arrange  them  into  five  large  groups  :  ( i )  the  personal 
experiences  of  the  individual  as  individual — the  things 
which  make  up  the  sum-total  of  his  private  life,  outer 
and  inner  ;  (2)  the  experiences  of  man  as  man — those 
great  common  questions  of  life  and  death,  sin  and 
destiny,  God,  man's  relation  with  God,  the  hope  of  the 
race  here  and  hereafter,  and  the  like — which  transcend 
the  limits  of  the  personal  lot,  and  belong  to  the  race 
as  a  whole  ;  (3)  the  relations  of  the  individual  with  his 
fellows,  or  the  entire  social  world,  with  all  its  activities 
and  problems  ;  (4)  the  external  world  of  nature,  and  our 
relations  with  this ;  and  (5)  man's  own  efforts  to  create 
\  and  express  under  the  various  forms  of  literature  and  art. 
Looking  at  literature  in  the  light  of  this  analysis,  and 
considering  only  the  character  of  its  subjects,  we  may 
thus  distinguish  five  classes  of  production  :  the  literature 
of  purely  personal  experience  ;  of  the  common  life  of 
man  as  man  ;  of  the  social  world  under  all  its  different 
aspects ;  the  literature  which  treats  of  nature ;  and 
the  literature  which  treats  of  literature  and  art. 

By  combining  the  results  of  these  two  lines  of 
analysis,  we  get  a  fairly  comprehensive  scheme 
c^Mifica-  °^  classification,  and  one  which,  as  will  be 
tionof  seen,  has  the  advantage  of  resting  upon 
tui?*  natural  foundations.  We  have,  first,  the 
literature  of  self-expression,  which  includes  the 
different  kinds  of  lyric  poetry,  the  poetry  of  medita- 
tion and  argument,  and  the  elegy ;  the  essay  and 
treatise  where  these  are  written  from  the  personal 
point  of  view  ;  and  the  literature  of  artistic  and  literary 
criticism.  We  have,  secondly,  the  literature  in  which 
the  writer,  instead  of  going  dpwn  into  himself,  goes 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  ITTEEATUEE  15 

out  of  himself  into  the  world  of  external  human  life 
and  activity  ;  and  this  includes  history  and  biography, 
the  ballad  and  the  epic,  the  romance  in  verse  and 
prose,  the  story  in  verse  and  prose,  the  novel  and 
the  drama.  And,  thirdly,  we  have  the  literature  of 
description,  not  in  itself  a  large  or  important  division, 
since  description  in  literature  is  ordinarily  associated 
with,  and  for  the  most  part  subordinated  to,  the  in- 
terests of  self-expression  or  narrative,  but  comprising 
in  the  book  of  travel,  and  the  descriptive  essay  and 
poem,  some  fairly  distinct  minor  forms  of  literary  art.  • 

Thus  the  various  forms  of  literary  expression  fall 
into  their  places  as  natural  results  of  common  human 
impulses  working  themselves  out  under  the  conditions 
of  art ;  and  when  we  remember  the  great  principle 
that  a  piece  of  literature  appeals  to  us  only  when  it ' 
calls  into  activity  in  us  the  same  powers  of  sympathy 
and  imagination  as  went  to  its  making,  the  interest 
which  such  forms  have  for  us  is  also  explained. 

It  should  further  be  noted,  among  the  preliminaries 
of  our  study,  that  in  all  these  divisions  certain 
elements  of  composition  are  always  present.    Elements 
There  is  in  the   first  place,    of    course,    the    ?^  Litera-  ^ 
elements     furnished     by     life    itself,     which 
constitute  the  raw  material  of  any  piece  of  literature — 
poem,   essay,    drama,    novel.       Then   there    are    the 
elements  contributed  by  the  author  in  his  fashioning 
of  such  raw  material  into  this  or  that  form  of  literary 
art.       These    may  be   roughly  tabulated    under  four 
heads.      First,  there  is  the   intellectual  element — the 
thought    which   the   writer  brings   to    bear  upon   his 
subject,     and     which     he     expresses     in     his     work. 
Secondly,  there   is   the  emotional  element — the  feel- 


J 


i6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUKE 

ing  (of  whatever  kind)  which  his  subject  arouses  in 
him,  and  which  in  turn  he  desires  to  stimulate  in  us. 
Thirdly,  there  is  the  element  of  imagination  (including 
its  lighter  form  which  we  call  fancy),  which  is  really 
the  faculty  of  strong  and  intense  vision,  and  by  the 
exercise  of  which  he  quickens  a  similar  power  of 
vision  in  ourselves.  These  elements  combine  to 
furnish  the  substance  and  the  life  of  literature.  But 
however  rich  may  be  the  materials  yielded  by  ex- 
perience, however  fresh  and  strong  may  be  the 
writer's  thought,  feeling,  and  imagination,  in  dealing 
with  them,  another  factor  is  wanting  before  his  work 
can  be  completed.  The  given  matter  has  to  be  moulded 
and  fashioned  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of 
order,  symmetry,  beauty,  effectiveness ;  and  thus  we 
have  a  fourth  element  in  literature — the  technical 
element,  or  the  element  of  composition  and  style. 

II 

It  has  been  necessary  to  touch  upon  these  some- 
what abstract  considerations  in  order  to  clear  the  way 
for  what  is  to  follow.  We  may  now  pass  directly  to 
matters  of  more  immediate  importance  to  the  student, 
whose  business  is  not  with  the  theory  of  literature,  but 
with  literature  itself 

If  literature  be  at  bottom  an  expression  of  life,  and 
if  it  be  by  virtue  of  the  life  which  it  expresses 
^*®^**^®  that  it  makes  its  special  appeal,  then  the 
pressicn  of  ultimate  secret  of  its  interest  must  be  sought 
Person-  j^  j^^  essentially  personal  character.  Litera- 
ture, according  to  Matthew  Arnold's  much- 
discussed  definition,  is  a  criticism  of  life  ;  but  this  can 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATUKE  17 

mean  only  that  it  is  an  interpretation  of  life  as  life 
shapes  itself  in  the  mind  of  the  interpreter.  It  is  with 
the  critic  or  interpreter,  therefore,  that  we  have  first  to 
do.  The  French  epigram  hits  the  mark — "  Art  is 
life  seen  through  a  temperament,"  for  the  mirror  which 
the  artist  holds  up  to  the  world  about  him  is  of 
necessity  the  mirror  of  his  own  personality.  The 
practical  bearings  of  this  fundamental  truth  must  be 
carefully  noted. 

A  great  book  is  born  of  the  brain  and  heart  of  its 
author  ;  he  has  put  himself  into  its  pages  ;  they  partake 
of  his  life,  and  are  instinct  with  his  individuality.  It 
is  to  the  man  in  the  book,  therefore,  that  to  begin  with 
we  have  to  find  our  way.  We  have  to  get  to  know 
him  as  an  individual.  To  establish  personal  intercourse 
with  our  books  in  a  simple,  direct,  human  way,  should 
thus  be  our  primary  and  constant  purpose.  We  want 
first  of  all  to  become,  not  scholars,  but  good  readers  ; 
and  we  can  become  good  readers  only  when  we  make 
our  reading  a  matter  of  close  and  sympathetic  com- 
panionship. "  Personal  experience,"  it  has  been  rightly 
said,  "  is  the  basis  of  all  real  literature  "  ;  and  to  enter 
into  such  personal  experience,  and  to  share  it,  is 
similarly  the  basis  of  all  real  literary  culture.  A  great 
book  owes  its  greatness  in  the  first  instance  to  the 
greatness  of  the  personality  which  gave  it  life  ;  for 
what  we  call  genius  is  only  another  name  for  freshness 
and  originality  of  nature,  with  its  resulting  freshness 
and  originality  of  outlook  upon  the  world,  of  insight, 
and  of  thought.  The  mark  of  a  really  great  book  is 
that  it  has  something  fresh  and  original  to  say,  and 
that  it  says  this  in  a  fresh  and  independent  way.  It  ^ 
is  the  utterance  of  one  who  has  himself  been  close  to 

B 

/ 


1 8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

those  aspects  of  life  of  which  he  speaks,  who  has 
looked  at  them  with  his  own  eyes,  who  by  the  keen- 
ness of  his  vision  has  seen  more  deeply  into  things, 
and  by  the  strength  of  his  genius  has  apprehended 
their  meaning  more  powerfully  than  the  common  race 
of  men  ;  and  who  in  addition  has  the  artist's  wonder- 
ful faculty  of  making  us  see  and  feel  with  him.  "  A 
good  book,"  as  Milton  finely  says  in  words  which, 
however  hackneyed,  can  hardly  be  too  often  repeated, 
"  is  the  precious  life-blood  of  a  master-spirit,  embalmed 
and  treasured  up  on  purpose  to  a  life  beyond  life." 
To  throw  open  our  whole  nature  to  the  quickening 
influence  of  such  a  master-spirit,  to  let  his  life-blood 
flow  freely  into  our  veins,  is  the  preliminary  step  in 
literary  culture — the  final  secret  of  all  profitable 
reading. 

It  is  important,  then,  that  in  all  our  dealings  with 
books  we  should  distinguish  between  what  Carlyle 
calls  the  "  genuine  voices  "  and  the  mere  "  echoes  " — 
between  the  men  who  speak  for  themselves  and  those 
who  speak  only  on  the  report  of  others.  "  I  have 
read,"  wrote  Charlotte  Bronte  of  Lewes's  Ranthorpe^ 
"  a  new  book  ;  not  a  reprint,  not  a  reflection  of  any 
other  book,  but  a  new  book."  Charlotte  Bronte 
clearly  recognised  the  distinction  upon  which  we  are 
now  insisting.  We  are  not  in  the  least  obliged  to 
despise  the  echoes  and  the  reprints,  or  to  say  hard 
and  contemptuous  things  of  them,  as  is  sometimes 
done  ;  for  provided  they  be  good  of  their  kind,  they 
have  their  place  and  usefulness.  But  to  safeguard 
ourselves  against  erroneous  estimates,  it  is  necessary 
to  keep  well  in  mind  the  essential  difference  between 
the    literature    which    draws    its    life    directly    from 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITEEATURE  19 

personality  and  experience,  and  that  which  draws  its 
life  mainly  at  second  hand  from  contact  with  the 
personality  and  experience  of  others.  The  literature 
which,  in  Turgenev's  phrase,  "  smells  of  literature,"  is 
always  to  be  classed  below  that  which  carries  with  it 
the  native  savour  of  life  itself;  and  it  is  not  with  the 
bookish  books  of  the  world,  no  matter  how  great 
their  technical  excellence,  but  with  those  which  are 
fullest  of  original  vitality,  that  we  are  chiefly 
concerned. 

Involved  in  this,  yet  calling  for  separate  emphasis, 
is  the  great  principle,  first  enunciated  by  ThePrin- 
Plato,  that  the  foundation  of  all  good  and  cipieof 
lasting  work  in  literature  is  entire  sincerity  ^^^^  ^' 
to  oneself,  to  one's  own  experience  of  life,  and  to  the 
truth  of  things  as  one  is  privileged  to  see  it — that 
very  quality  of  sincerity  which  was,  it  will  be  re- 
membered, for  Carlyle  the  essence  of  all  heroic  great- 
ness. "Cest  mot  qui  ai  vecu"  wrote  Alfred  de 
Musset.  The  words  may  seem  commonplace  enough, 
but  how  many  of  us  could  honestly  say  as  much? 
"  The  value  of  the  tidings  brought  by  literature,"  as 
George  Henry  Lewes  rightly  insists,  "is  determined 
by  their  authenticity.  .  .  .  We  cannot  demand  from 
every  man  that  he  have  unusual  depth  of  insight  or 
exceptional  experience  ;  but  we  demand  of  him  that 
he  give  us  of  his  best,  and  his  best  cannot  bej 
another's."  We  can  thus  see  why  men  who  speak 
frankly  for  themselves  in  literature  have  always  a 
chance  of  being  listened  to,  while  others  of  perhaps 
greater  natural  power,  wider  culture,  and  far  more 
accomplished  art,  but  of  less  candour  and  directness  of 
utterance,  are  passed  over  or  quickly  forgotten.     It  is 


20  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

always  a  sure  sign  of  literary  decadence  in  individual 
or  age  when  this  preference  is  not  shown.  Without 
sincerity,  no  vital  work  in  literature  is  possible ;  and 
"  that  virtue  of  originality  that  men  so  strive  after,"  as 
Ruskin  says,  "  is  not  newness  ...  it  is  only  genuine- 
ness." Readers  of  Kingsley  will  remember  how 
Alton  Locke's  first  attempt  at  poetry  took  the  shape 
of  a  South  Sea  Romance  compounded  of  Childe 
Harold  and  the  old  missionary  records,  and  how 
Sandye  Mackaye,  with  a  contemptuous — "  What  do 
ye  ken  about  Pacifies?  Are  ye  a  cockney  or  a 
Cannibal  Islander  ?  " — took  the  would-be  poet  on  a 
tour  of  inspection  through  Clare  Market  and  St 
Giles's,  on  a  foul,  chilly  Saturday  night,  showed  him 
something  of  the  actual  tragedy  of  London's  misery 
and  sin,  and  at  each  new  revelation  of  its  horrors 
advised  him  curtly  to  "  write  anent  that."  The  prin- 
ciple that,  whether  his  range  of  experience  and 
personal  power  be  great  or  small,  a  man  should  write  of 
that  which  lies  at  his  own  doors,  should  make  it  his  chief 
business  to  report  faithfully  of  what  he  has  lived,  seen, 
thought,  felt,  known,  for  himself,  is  one  which  the 
student  of  literature  can  never  afford  to  lose  sight  of 
The  cleverness  and  brilliancy  of  many  books  which 
have  not  this  essential  quality  of  genuineness  will 
often  tempt  him  to  neglect  it.  But  the  truth  remains 
that  the  value  of  literature  is  in  the  measure  of  its 
authenticity. 

Our  study  of  literature  thus  begins  in  a  very  simple 

The  man      ^^^   humble   way.      We  take  a  great  book, 

In  the         and  we  try  to  penetrate  as  deeply  as  we  can 

into  its  personal  life.     We  make  our  reading 

of  it,  to  the  fullest  extent  possible  to  us,  a  matter  of 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  21 

actual  intercourse  between  its  author  and  ourselves. 
We  listen  attentively  to  what  he  has  to  tell  us,  and 
we  do  our  best  to  enter  sympathetically  into  his 
thought  and  feeling.  We  note  carefully  how  he 
looked  at  life,  what  he  found  in  it,  what  he  brought 
away  from  it.  We  observe  how  the  world  of  experi- 
ence impressed  him,  and  how  it  is  interpreted 
through  his  personality. 

We  become  familiar  with  his  character  and  outlook, 
his  strength  and  weakness,  his  very  accent,  as  we 
become  familiar  with  the  character,  outlook,  strength, 
weakness,  accent,  of  those  with  whom  we  talk  in  the 
flesh.  We  get  to  know  the  man  as  the  man  reveals 
himself  in  what  he  has  written.  The  book  lives  for  us 
in  all  the  potency  of  his  individuality. 

This,  then,  is  our  starting-point — the  first  step,  as  I 
have  said,  in  the  cultivation  of  the  habit  of  good  and 
profitable  reading.  And  if  it  is  objected  that  this  is, 
indeed,  an  obvious  view  of  literary  culture,  and  one  so 
generally  recognised  that  there  is  no  need  to  labour  it, 
my  reply  is,  that  this  is  precisely  one  of  those  common- 
places of  theory  which  we  are  only  too  apt  to  leave 
unutilised  in  practice.  The  moment  we  begin  to  talk 
about  the  systematic  study  of  literature  the  tendency 
sets  in  to  think  of  something  formal  and  pedantic,  and 
to  substitute  for  the  true  ideal  of  intimate  and  sym- 
pathetic intercourse  the  academic  ideal  of  mere  scholar- 
ship ;  it  comes  to  be  regarded  as  our  main  business, 
not:  to  know  our  books  in  the  sense  in  which  we  here 
speak  of  knowing  them,  but  rather  to  know,  down 
to  the  minutest  particulars,  everything  that  patient 
erudition  and  elaborate  criticism  have  accumulated  or 
found  to  say  about  them — a  very  different  thing.  Hence 


22  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUKE 

the  necessity  of  dwelling  even  at  some  length  upon 
this  primary  conception  of  good  reading  as  fundamen- 
tally a  direct  contact  between  mind  and  mind,  and  of 
insisting  that  all  other  aspects  of  literary  study  are 
supplemental  to,  and  not  substitutes  for,  it. 

With  this  conception  before  us,  we  can  realise  from 
yet  another  point  of  view,  the  vital  relations  of  litera- 
ture and  life.  What  George  Eliot  said  of  art  in  general 
is  specially  true  of  the  art  of  literature  :  it  "  is  the 
nearest  thing  to  life  ;  it  is  a  mode  of  amplifying  ex- 
perience and  extending  our  contact  with  our  fellow- 
men  beyond  the  bounds  of  our  personal  lot."  Thus 
literature  makes  us  partakers  in  a  life  larger,  richer,  and 
more  varied  than  we  ourselves  can  ever  know  of  our 
own  individual  knowledge  ;  and  it  does  this,  not 
only  because  it  opens  up  new  fields  of  experience  and 
new  lines  of  thought  and  speculation,  but  also,  and 
even  more  notably,  because  it  carries  us  beyond  the 
pinched  and  meagre  humanity  of  our  everyday  round 
of  existence  into  contact  with  those  fresh,  strong,  and 
magnetic  personalities  who  have  embodied  themselves 
in  the  world's  great  books. 

Ill 

Taking  this  as  our  point  of  departure,  we  must  next 
Reading  ^^^^  ^°  make  our  reading  at  once  broader 
and  study,  and  more  systematic.  Between  the  mere 
reader  of  books  and  the  student  of  literature  the 
essential  difference  is  not  to  be  sought,  as  I  am  afraid 
it  is  very  often  sought,  in  the  supposed  fact  that  the  one 
enjoys  his  reading  and  the  other  does  not.  The  true 
difference  is  this,  that  the  one  reads  in  a  haphazard 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATUEE  23 

and  desultory  way,  while  the  other's  reading  is  organ- 
ised according  to  some  regular  order  or  plan.  So  long 
as  we  simply  take  a  book  here  and  a  book  there,  as 
chance  or  the  whim  of  the  hour  may  dictate,  we  are 
merely  readers.  It  is  only  when  we  introduce  method 
into  our  reading  that  we  become  students. 

Obviously,  our  most  natural  course  is  to  pass 
directly  from  the  reading  of  books  to  the 
study  of  authors.  Our  first  aim  being,  as  ^^5^^* 
we  have  said,  to  establish  personal  relations  Books  and 
with  a  man  in  his  work,  we  begin  by  devoting  of  Authors 
ourselves  to  some  one  or  other  of  his  writings 
which  may  have  a  special  kind  of  interest  for  us. 
But  as  students  we  cannot  rest  here.  We  want 
to  realise  the  man's  genius,  so  far  as  this  is  possible, 
in  its  wholeness  and  variety  ;  and  to  this  end  we 
have  to  consider  his  works,  not  separately,  but  in  their 
relations  with  one  another,  and  thus  with  the  man 
himself,  the  growth  of  his  mind,  the  changes  of  his 
temper  and  thought,  the  influence  upon  him  of  his 
experiences  in  the  world.  Those  records  of  himself 
which  he  has  left  us  in  his  books  are  now  no  longer 
to  be  regarded  as  detached  and  independent  expres- 
sions of  his  personality — isolated  productions  forming 
a  mere  miscellaneous  aggregate  of  unconnected  units, 
to  be  read  without  any  sense  of  their  affiliations 
one  with  another.  They  are  rather  to  be  taken  as 
a  corpus^  or  organic  whole — not  simply  as  his  works, 
but  as  his  work.  A  telling  illustration  lies  ready 
to  hand  in  the  case  of  Shakespeare.  We  may  read, 
and  we  often  do  read,  Shakespeare's  plays  without  the 
slightest  idea  of  sequence  or  method,  jumping,  let 
us   say,  from  the    Comedy  of  Errors  to  King   Lear^ 


24  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

and  from  the  Tempest  back  to  A  Midsummer  Nighfs 
Dream ;  and  no  one  will  deny  that  the  keenest 
delight  and  a  great  deal  of  profit  may  be  found  in 
such  random  reading  of  them.  But  though  in  this 
way  we  may  get  to  know  much  of  Shakespeare, 
there  is  much  that  we  cannot  get  to  know.  We 
have  still  to  study  these  plays  together  as  diverse 
expressions  of  one  and  the  same  genius  ;  to  compare 
and  contrast  them  in  matter  and  spirit,  in  method 
and  style  ;  to  conceive  them,  alike  in  their  similarities 
and  in  their  differences,  as  products  of  a  single  in- 
dividual power  revealing  itself,  in  different  periods 
and  in  curiously  varying  artistic  moods,  now  in  one 
and  now  in  another  of  them.  Hence,  manifestly 
the  need  of  systematising  our  reading. 

If,  recognising  this  need,  we  raise  the  question 
of  the  course  to  be  pursued,  the  answer  is 
oSffSa°^  not  far  to  seek.  Clearly,  the  most  natural 
Method  of  and  the  most  profitable  of  all  plans  of 
anAuSor.  study  that  might  be  suggested  is  the  chrono- 
logical— the  study  of  a  writer's  works  in  the 
order  of  their  production.  Taken  in  this  way  such 
works  become  for  us  the  luminous  record  of  his 
inner  life  and  of  his  craftsmanship ;  and  ^we  thus 
follow  in  them  the  various  phases  of  his  experience, 
the  stages  of  his  mental  and  moral  growth,  the 
changes  undergone  by  his  art.  "  In  order  to  know 
Balzac,  and  to  judge  him,"  writes  a  French  critic 
of  that  great  novelist,  "  we  must  arrange  his  works 
in  the  order  in  which  they  were  produced."  It  is 
now  almost  universally  recognised  that  the  true,  in 
fact  the  only  way,  in  which  to  study  Shakespeare, 
if    we    would    properly    know    and    judge    him,    is 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITEEATUKE  25 

similarly  to  arrange  his  works,  so  far  as  we  can  do 
so,  in  the  order  in  which  they  were  produced,  since 
in  this  way  we  can  obtain,  as  we  can  obtain  by 
no  other  method,  a  substantial  sense  of  those 
works  as  a  progressive  revelation  of  his  genius  and 
power.  And  what  is  thus  now  taken  as  a  principle 
of  practice  in  the  study  of  Balzac  and  Shakespeare 
will  be  found  to  hold  equally  good  in  the  study 
of  every  other  writer  who  is  worth  systematic  study 
at  all. 

To  prevent  misapprehension,  it  should,  however, 
be  added  that  when  we  speak  in  this  way  of  a 
writer's  work  as  a  whole,  it  is  generally  with  a 
certain  amount  of  qualification.  We  may  not  always 
or  usually  mean  literally  everything  that  he  produced, 
but  simply  everything  that  is  really  vital  and  im- 
portant as  an  expression  of  his  genius.  To-day  there 
is  something  very  much  like  a  mania  for  the  collection 
and  preservation  of  every  miscellaneous  scrap  which 
any  great  author  allowed  to  remain  unpublished, 
or  perhaps  threw  aside  as  unworthy  of  publication  ; 
but  the  outcome  of  such  indiscriminate  enthusiasm 
has  seldom  any  solid  value.  Even  apart  from  these 
gleanings  from  the  note-book  and  the  waste-paper- 
basket  (which  here  can  hardly  concern  us),  most 
writers,  even  the  greatest,  leave  behind  them  a  con- 
siderable body  of  published  work,  which  is  either 
tentative  and  experimental,  or  in  which  they  are 
merely  echoes  of  themselves,  repeating  less  effectively 
what  they  have  already  said  in  other  forms,  and 
adding  nothing  to  the  sum-total  of  their  real  contribu- 
tion to  the  world's  literature.  Such  secondary  kind 
i>f  work  will    always  have  its  value  for  the  special 


26  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

student  intent  upon  the  exhaustive  investigation  of 
a  given  author ;  but  to  begin  with  we  may,  in  the 
vast  majority  of  cases,  safely  disregard  it. 

/  In  following  the  chronological  method  we  shall  find 
The  Com-  ourselves,  it  is  evident,  continually  comparing 
parative  and  contrasting  a  man  with  himself.  Our 
next  step  will  be  to  sharpen  our  impression  of 
his  personality  by  comparing  and  contrasting  him  with 
others — with  men  who  worked  in  the  same  field,  took 
up  the  same  subjects,  dealt  with  the  same  problems, 
wrote  under  similar  conditions,  or  who,  for  any  other 
reason,  naturally  associate  themselves  with  him  in  our 

vminds.  The  student  of  Shakespeare  almost  inevitably 
turns  to  Shakespeare's  greater  contemporaries — to 
men  like  Marlowe,  Jonson,  Beaumont  and  Fletcher, 
Webster — and  rightly  feels  that  by  marking  the  points 
at  which  the  master  resembled  these  other  dramatists, 
and  the  points  in  which  he  differed  from  them,  he 
gains  immeasurably  in  his  realisation  of  the  essential 
qualities  of  Shakespeare's  genius  and  art.  We  throw 
a  flood  of  fresh  light  upon  Tennyson  and  Browning 
alike  when  we  read  them  side  by  side.  The  funda- 
mental features  of  the  art  of  Sophocles  and  Euripides 
are  brought  into  relief  when  we  pass  backward  and 
forward  from  one  to  the  other.  Thackeray  furnishes 
us  with  an  illuminating  commentary  on  Dickens,  and 
Dickens  does  the  same  service  for  Thackeray.  We 
have  laid  down  the  principle  that  in  studying  literature 
our  first  business  is  to  enter  into  the  spirit  of  our 
author,  to  penetrate  into  the  vital  forces  of  his 
personality.  We  need  add  no  further  illustrations  to 
show  how  the  comparative  method  will  help  us  to  do 
this.     The   doctrine   that    "all   higher  knowledge  is 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  27 

gained  by  comparison,  and  rests  on  comparison,"  ^  is  as 
true  and  important  in  the  study  of  literature  as  in  the 
study  of  science. 

IV 

In  our  study  of  the  personal  life  in  literature  we 
shall  of  course  be  greatly  helped  by  the 
judicious  use  of  good  biography.  Our  in-  raphy. 
terest  in  the  writings  of  any  great  author 
being  once  aroused,  the  desire  will  inevitably  be 
stimulated  to  learn  something  of  the  man  himself,  as 
a  man,  beyond  that  which  his  work  reveals  to  us. 
We  shall  be  curious  to  see  him  in  the  social  surround- 
ings in  which  he  lived,  and  in  his  daily  converse  with 
his  fellows  ;  to  know  the  chief  facts  of  his  outward 
history — his  ambitions,  struggles,  successes,  failures — 
and  the  connection  of  his  books  with  these ;  the  way 
in  which  and  the  conditions  under  which  such  books 
were  written  ;  his  intellectual  habits  and  methods  of 
work.  Curiosity  on  such  and  similar  points  is 
entirely  natural  and  legitimate,  and  we  need  not 
scruple  to  gratify  it.  We  may  well  be  grateful,  there- 
fore, for  such  massive  and  detailed  narratives  as  we 
possess,  for  instance,  of  the  lives  of  Milton,  Johnson, 
Goethe,  Scott,  Tennyson  ;  apart  altogether  from  their 
interest  simply  as  human  documents  (which  is  really  a 
different  matter),  their  direct  literary  value  is  inestim- 
able, since  we  rightly  feel  that  we  can  understand  and 
enjoy  the  works  of  these  men  so  much  the  better  for 
the  information  they  afford.  And  for  every  good 
piece  of  biographical  writing,  small  or  great,  we  shall 
be  similarly  thankful,  and  for  the  same  reason.     Side 

^  Max  MUller,  Lectures  on  the  Science  of  Religion,  p.  12. 


28  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

by  side  on  our  shelf  with  the  books  of  any  author  we 
really  care  for,  a  place  should  thus  certainly  be  made 
for  some  well-chosen  account  of  his  life. 

It  is  necessary,  however,  to  lay  stress  upon  the  two- 
fold qualification  which  I  have  suggested ;  it 
is  good  biography  which  alone  can  be  of 
service  to  us,  and  this  must  be  used  judiciously  and  kept 
in  its  proper  place.  There  is  a  great  deal  to-day 
which  passes  under  the  name  of  literary  biography 
which  yields  little  more  than  trivial  gossip  about  those 
details  of  the  private  life  of  famous  men  with  which 
the  public  has  really  no  concern,  and  which  the  student 
is  not  in  the  least  helped  by  knowing.  "  Petrarch's 
house  in  Arqua,  Tasso's  supposed  prison  in  Ferrara, 
Shakespeare's  house  in  Stratford,  Goethe's  house  in 
Weimar,  with  its  furniture,  Kant's  old  hat,  the  auto- 
graphs of  great  men — these  things,"  as  Schopenhauer 
rightly  remarked,  "  are  gaped  at  with  interest  and  awe 
by  many  who  have  never  read  their  works."  Since 
Schopenhauer's  time,  the  craze  for  mere  personal 
detail,  at  once  fostered  and  fed  by  a  newspaper  press 
which,  in  these  matters,  has  lost  all  sense  of  reticence 
and  decency,  has  developed  to  an  extent  which  may 
fairly  be  described  as  alarming,  as  the  puerile  chatter 
with  which  even  our  so-called  literary  and  critical 
periodicals  frequently  fill  their  pages  only  too  elo- 
quently proves.  We  must  not  mistake  our  interest 
in  the  external  facts  of  literary  biography — which  is 
generally  an  idle,  often  a  vulgar  interest — for  an 
interest  in  literature  itself;  our  knowledge  of  these 
things,  however  wide  and  accurate,  for  literary  culture. 
This  warning  is  opportune,  for  the  danger  lest  we  do 
so  is  real  and  urgent,  and  may  beset  us  at  times  when 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITEEATUEE  29 

we  are  least  on  our  guard  against  it.  The  student 
of  Carlyle,  for  instance — I  take  an  example  which 
at  once  suggests  itself,  and  than  which  it  would  be 
difficult  to  select  one  more  immediately  to  the  point — 
will  find  much  to  his  purpose  in  Froude's  four  volumes 
of  biography  ;  yet  through  the  perusal  of  those  volumes 
he  may  easily  get  himself  entangled  in  the  whole 
problem  of  Carlyle's  home-life  and  domestic  relation- 
ships, and  in  the  mass  of  controversial  literature  which 
within  recent  years  has  unfortunately  grown  up  about 
this.  But  the  fact  is  that  with  this  problem  he,  as  a 
student  of  the  great  preacher  and  artist,  has  nothing 
whatever  to  do,  and  that  thus  all  the  hundreds  of 
pages  which  have  been  written  about  it  are  for  him 
little  more  than  so  much  rubbish.  Hence,  as  they 
add  nothing  of  real  significance  to  our  knowledge  of 
the  essential  personality  and  character  of  the  author  of 
Sartor  Resartus  and  Past  and  Present,  and  as  the 
mastery  of  them  would  at  best  involve  an  expenditure 
of  time  which  could  be  much  more  profitably  devoted 
to  Sartor  Resartus  and  Past  and  Present  themselves, 
we  shall  do  well,  it  is  clear,  to  leave  them  severely 
alone.  I  am  not  one  of  those  who  believe  that  we  are 
really  better  off  for  knowing  no  more  than  we  are 
ever  likely  to  know  about  the  man  William  Shakespeare, 
actor,  manager,  playwright,  frequenter  of  the  Mermaid 
Tavern,  citizen  of  Stratford  ;  on  the  contrary,  I  quite 
frankly  admit  that  I  should  be  glad  to  have  the  great- 
est amount  of  detailed  information  about  him  in  all 
these  capacities.  Yet  I  am  bound  to  add  that  this 
feeling  is  more  than  half  due  to  curiosity  only  ;  and  if 
I  were  asked  whether  I  think  it  probable  that  we 
should  gain  in  the  least  in  our  insight  into  the  essential 


30  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Shakespeare — the  Shakespeare  of  the  plays — if  we 
had  as  many  particulars  concerning  his  relations  with 
Anne  Hathaway  as  we  have  of  Carlyle's  relations  with 
Jane  Welsh,  and  were  able  to  read  the  personal  riddle, 
if  personal  riddle  there  be,  of  the  Sonnets,  I  should 
answer  with  an  unhesitating  negative.  And  it  is  with 
Shakespeare  the  poet  and  dramatist,  as  it  is  with 
Carlyle  the  great  prophet  and  consummate  literary 
artist,  that  we  ought  rather,  after  all,  to  be  concerned. 
But  because  we  are  fully  alive  to  the  danger  lest 
biography  may  too  easily  degenerate  into  idle  and 
impertinent  gossip  about  unimportant  things,  we  need 
not  therefore  go  with  some  critics  to  the  other  extreme 
of  maintaining  that  biography  is  valueless, 
and  that  the  student  of  a  man's  work  should 
confine  himself  to  that  work,  and  has  no  proper 
interest  in  the  man  outside  it.  Distinguishing  as  we 
must  between  the  reading  of  a  biography  simply  as 
a  piece  of  literature,  which  is  one  thing,  and  the  read- 
ing of  it  in  connection  with  and  as  a  commentary 
upon  an  author's  writings,  which  is  another,  we  shall 
in  the  latter  case  welcome  and  utilise  everything  that 
really  brings  us  into  more  intimate  relationships  with 
the  genius  and  essential  character  of  the  man  with 
whom  we  have  to  deal ;  all  else  may  go.  And  in 
good  biography — as  in  Carlyle's  own  admirable  essays 
— it  will  be  found  that  a  line  is  commonly  drawn 
between  the  important,  intrinsic,  and  fundamental 
aspects  of  experience  and  character  and  those  which 
are  merely  trivial,  superficial,  and  accidental.  Of 
course  it  will  often  be  difficult,  in  any  given  instance, 
to  say  exactly  up  to  what  point  the  personal  material 
will  be  useful  to  us,  and  where  it  will  cease  to  be  so. 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  31 

Sometimes  a  seemingly  insignificant  fact  will  prove  to 
be  unexpectedly  illuminating  and  suggestive  ;  some- 
times, on  the  other  hand,  phases  of  a  man's  career, 
important  and  interesting  in  themselves,  will  turn  out 
on  examination  to  have  had  so  little  to  do  with  his 
work  that  on  the  literary  side  they  will  mean  nothing. 
Hence  we  must  exercise  our  own  tact  and  discretion. 
Much  will  depend  upon  the  special  objects  we  may 
for  the  moment  have  in  view ;  a  good  deal  also  on 
the  nature  of  the  particular  case.  Thus,  for  instance, 
biographical  detail  will  always  occupy  a  prominent 
place  in  the  study  of  Dante,  whose  writings  can  hardly 
be  understood  when  detached  from  his  life,  and  of 
Goethe  whose  works,  according  to  his  own  often-quoted 
description  of  them,  were  but  fragments  of  a  great  per- 
sonal confession  ;  while  with  Johnson,  as  every  reader 
knows,  the  usual  relations  between  production  and 
biography  are  actually  reversed,  and  instead  of  the 
life  being  read  as  a  commentary  upon  the  writings, 
the  writings  are  read  almost  entirely  in  connection 
with  the  life.  We  can  therefore  lay  down  no  hard 
and  fast  rule  for  the  use  of  biography  in  literary  study, 
nor  is  it  necessary  that  we  should  try  to  do  so.  It 
will  be  well  for  us,  however,  to  be  on  our  guard 
against  the  rather  widespread  error  of  confusing  means 
employed  with  end  to  be  attained.  Biography  in 
itself  is  nearly  always  interesting  and  generally  profit- 
able. But  the  study  of  biography  is  not  the  study  of 
literature,  and  should  never  be  made  a  substitute  for  it. 
In  closing  this  section  let  me  insist  that  it  is  beyond 
all  things  necessary  that  we  should  cultivate  The  Need  of 
a  spirit  of  sympathy — at  least  of  provisional  sympathy, 
sympathy — with  our  author.     We  cannot  of  course 


32  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

expect  that  our  personal  relations  with  all  the 
great  writers  we  may  from  time  to  time  take  up 
will  be  uniformly  intimate  and  agreeable.  Our  own 
temperaments  have  to  be  reckoned  with.  Literature 
contains  the  revelation  of  many  different  personalities, 
and  we  ourselves  have  our  well-marked  leanings  and 
antipathies.  It  is  to  no  purpose  then  that  the  dogmatic 
critic  tells  us  that  we  must  perforce  enjoy  this  or  that 
author,  admire  this  or  that  book,  on  pain  of  instant 
condemnation  as  hopelessly  lacking  in  taste.  No  one 
has  a  right  thus  to  impose  his  own  judgment  upon  us  ; 
and  honest  likes  and  dislikes  are  never  to  be  despised. 
We  cannot  force  our  temperaments  ;  in  literature  as 
in  life  there  are  people  whose  greatness  we  may  indeed 
recognise,  but  with  whom  we  should  find  good-fellow- 
ship altogether  impossible  ;  others,  towards  whom  our 
feelings  will  be  of  positive  repugnance.  It  is  right  to 
recognise  this  fact,  and  wise  to  accept  its  implications, 
if  only  that  we  may  be  saved  thereby  from  the  too 
common  habit  of  indiscriminate  or  merely  conventional 
admiration.  Yet  recognition  of  it  should  be  accom- 
panied by  certain  reserves.  We  must  remember  that 
many  authors  should  prove  interesting  even  when,  and 
occasionally  because,  they  are  intellectual  and  moral 
aliens  to  us.  We  must  remember,  too,  that  it  is 
precisely  as  it  brings  us  into  contact  with  many 
different  kinds  of  personality,  which  often  challenge 
our  own,  and  thus  increases  our  flexibility  of  mind, 
breadth  of  outlook,  catholicity  of  taste  and  judgment, 
that  the  value  of  literature  as  a  means  of  culture 
becomes  so  great.  A  certain  amount  of  patience  and 
persistency  in  our  dealings  with  writers  who  at  first 
rather  repel   than  attract   is   therefore   to   be   recom- 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  33 

mended.  The  fault  may  lie  entirely  with  us — in 
prejudices  which  we  ought  to  overcome ;  in  mere 
inability  to  place  ourselves  at  once  at  their  point  of 
view,  or  even  to  rise  to  the  level  of  their  thought  and 
power.  In  any  event,  we  may  rest  assured  that 
without  some  amount  of  initial  sympathy,  we  shall 
never  understand  an  author's  real  character.  To 
reach  the  best  in  literature,  as  in  life,  sympathy  is  a 
preliminary  condition.  Only  through  sympathy  can 
we  ever  get  into  living  touch  with  another  soul. 


It  is  while  we  are  still  dealing  with  literature  on 

the  personal   side   that   style    or   expression 

r     ^   u  '  4.     ^   /  1^    •  style  as 

first  becomes   important  for  us.      It  is  very    an  index 

commonly  supposed,  indeed,  that  the  formal    °^^®^" 

element    in    literature   is    a    matter    for  the 

specialist  only.     This  is  a  serious  mistake.     Leaving 

the    more    technical    and    recondite    aspects    of    the 

subject  for  the  moment  out  of  consideration,  we  have 

therefore  to  insist  that  the  studyof  style  is  itself  full 

of  broad  interest  for  every  reader  who  seeks  to  enter 

into  the  human  life  in  literature. 

It  is  probable  that  we  have  all  at  some  time  or 

other  had  the  experience  of  chancing  upon  a  passage 

quoted    without    indication    of    authorship,    and    of 

exclaiming — "  So    and    so   must   have  written   that." 

In  such  a  case,  it  is  often  not  the  thought  that  strikes 

us   as  (familiar   so    much    as   the   way   in   wtlf^!^   ^^^ 

thought    is    expressed.      The    passage    has    somehow 

— we    might    be    at   a  loss   to   say   exactly   how— f-a 

characteristic   ring,]  like   that   of  a  well-known  voice. 

c  ' 


34  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

However  commonplace  the  idea,  we  feel  sure  that 
no  one  else  would  have  put  it  just  in  that  way.  The 
choice  of  the  wordSj'^Hhe  turn  of  the  phrases,  the 
structure  of  the  sentences,  their  peculiar  rhythm  and 
cadence — these  are  all  curiously  instinct  with  the 
individuality  of  the  writer.  The  thing  said  may  have 
little  to  distinguish  it,  but  the  man  has  put  himself 
into  it  none  the  less 

This  is  enough  to  show  that  style — I  am  using  the 

word    in    its    broadest    sense — is    fundamentally    a 

personal  quality  :  that,  as  Buffon's  oft-quoted  dictum 

has   it,   le  style  est  de  Fhomme   7neme.     When    Pope 

called  it  "  the  dress  of  thous:ht,"   he   failed 

The  Per-  . 

sonaiin-     entirely  to  recognise   its   essentially  organic 

terestof  character,  for  he  evidently  conceived  it  as 
something  apart  from  the  man,  which  he 
could  put  on  or  take  off  at  will.  Style,  as  Carlyle 
says  in  one  of  his  Journals,  is  not  the  coat  of  a 
writer,  but  his  skin.  There  are  authors,  of  course, 
who  have  deliberately  shaped  their  utterance  on  the 
speech  of  stronger  men,  and  set  themselves  to  re- 
produce their  very  gestures  and  mannerisms  ;  the  tyro 
in  letters  is  often,  indeed,  advised  by  teachers  who 
know  no  better  to  take  this  or  that  master  as  his 
model.  Moreover,  the  strongest  and  most  original 
men  are  frequently  deeply  influenced  by  others,  and 
carry  traces  of  such  influence  in  their  style.  But 
as  sincerity  is  the  foundation-principle  of  all  true 
literature,  so  is  it  the  foundation-principle  of  all  true 
style.  A  man  who  has  something  really  personal  to 
say  will  seldom  fail  to  find  a  really  personal  way  in 
which  to  say  it.  Thought  which  is  his  own  will 
hardly  permit  itself  to  be  shaped  into  the  fashion  of 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  35 

some  one  else's  expression.  Imitation  will  always 
be  significant  as  revealing  the  sources  from  which 
a  writer  who  deals  with  life  mainly  at  second-hand 
derives  his  inspiration  ;  but  it  takes  us  in  reality  but 
a  short  distance  beneath  the  surface  even  of  his  work. 
Imitate  as  he  may,  the  native  qualities  of  a  man — 
his  inherent  strength  and  weakness — will  ultimately 
show  through,  and  he  will  of  necessity  write  himself 
down  for  what  he  is.  So  profound  a  truth  is  it  that 
*'  every  spirit  builds  its  own  house."  ^ 

"  Literature,"  says  one  who  was  himself  a  great 
master  of  style,  "  is  the  personal  use  or  exercise  of 
language.  That  this  is  so  is  .  .  .  proved  from  the  fact 
that  one  author  uses  it  so  differently  from  another.  .  .  . 
While  the  many  use  language  as  they  find  it,  the  man 
of  genius  uses  it  indeed,  but  subjects  it  withal  to  his 
own  purposes,  and  moulds  it  according  to  his  own 
peculiarities.  The  throng  and  succession  of  ideas, 
thoughts,  feelings,  imaginations,  speculations,  which 
pass  within  him,  the  abstractions,  the  juxtapositions, 
the  comparisons,  the  discriminations,  the  conceptions, 

^  The  following  extract  from  one  of  our  earliest  English  critics  will  be 
read  with  interest,  because  it  shows  that  men  were  impressed  by  the 
personal  quality  of  style  as  soon  as  they  began  to  think  about  literature 
at  all.  "  Style  is  a  constant  and  continual  phrase  or  tenour  of  speaking 
and  writing.  ...  So  we  say  that  Cicero's  style  and  Sallust's  were  not 
one,  nor  Caesar's  and  Livy's,  nor  Homer's  and  Hesiodus',  nor  Herodotus' 
and  Thucydides',  nor  Euripides'  and  Aristophanes',  nor  Erasmus'  and 
Budeus'  styles.  And  because  this  continual  course  and  manner  of  writing 
or  speech  sheweth  the  matter  and  disposition  of  the  writer's  mind  more 
than  one  or  two  instances  can  show,  therefore  there  be  that  have  called 
style  the  image  of  man  {mentis  character).  For  man  is  but  his  mind,  and 
as  his  mind  is  tempered  and  qualified,  so  are  his  speeches  and  language 
at  large ;  and  his  inward  conceits  be  the  metal  of  his  mind,  and  his 
manner  of  utterance  the  very  warp  and  woof  of  his  conceits  "  (Puttenham, 
The  Arte  of  Englishe  Poesie,  1589). 


36  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

which  are  so  original  in  him,  his  views  of  external 
things,  his  judgments  upon  life,  manners,  and  history, 
the  exercises  of  his  wit,  of  his  humour,  of  his  depth, 
of  his  sagacity,  all  these  innumerable  and  incessant 
creations,  the  very  production  and  throbbing  of  his 
intellect,  does  he  image  forth  ...  in  a  corresponding 
language,  which  is  as  multiform  as  this  inward  mental 
action  itself,  and  analogous  to  it,  the  faithful  expression 
of  his  intense  personality,  attending  on  his  inward 
world  of  thought  as  its  very  shadow  ;  so  that  we 
might  as  well  say  that  one  man's  shadow  is  another's 
as  that  the  style  of  a  really  gifted  mind  can  belong 
to  any  but  himself.  It  follows  him  about  as  a 
shadow.  His  thought  and  feeling  are  personal,  and 
so  his  language  is  personal."  ^ 

I  have  made  this  long  quotation  chiefly  with  the 
view  of  further  elucidating  the  principle  I  am  trying 
to  make  clear  by  putting  it  in  language  other  than 
my  own.  One  point  touched  upon  by  Newman  is, 
however,  worthy  of  special  attention.  He  notes,  it 
will  be  observed,  that  while  the  majority  of  men  use 
the  language  of  their  time  "  as  they  find  it,"  the  man 
of  genius  subjects  such  language  "  to  his  own  purposes, 
and  moulds  it  according  to  his  own  peculiarities." 
This  means  that  language  always  receives  a  certain 
fresh  impress  from  the  hands  of  every  writer  of 
strongly  marked  personality.  As  Dr  Rutharford, 
Headmaster  of  Westminster,  in  speaking  of  the  style 
of  Thucydides,  has  well  said  :  "  Just  in  proportion 
to  the  measure  of  individuality  with  which  a  man  is 
gifted,  does  his  use  of  the  language  of  his  race  " — and 
we  may  add,  of  his  period — "  differ  from  the  common 

*  Newman,  Lectures  on  Literature^  in  The  Idea  of  a  University,  §  3. 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  37 

or  normal  use "  ;  and  this  difference  is  sometimes  so 
great  that  "  we  may  know  a  language  very  well  in  an 
ordinary  way,  and  yet  be  unable  to  enjoy  perfectly 
some  of  the  greatest  writers  in  it."  In  this  fact  we  ^ 
have  another  illustration  of  the  intimate  and  inevitable 
relation  of  personality  and  style. 

As  even  an  uncritical  reader,  then,  must  recognise  the 
individual  quality  in  style,  and  as  this  is  something 
which  we  are  bound  to  feel  with  ever  increasing 
distinctness  the  more  we  think  about  it,  the  student 
will  naturally  be  led  to  consider  wherein,  in  any  given 
case,  this  individual  quality  consists,  and  to  look  closely 
into  the  connection  between  the  character  of  a  writer's 
genius  and  thought  and  the  form  of  expression  which 
he  has  fashioned  for  himself.  To  approach  style  in 
this  way  is  to  find  in  it  not  only  the  living  product  of 
an  author's  personality,  but  also  a  transparent  record 
of  his  intellectual,  spiritual,  and  artistic  growth.  Care- 
fully examined,  it  will  tell  us  much  of  his  'education  ; 
-  of  the  influences  which  went  to  shape  and  mould  his 
nature  ;  ^f  the  masters  at  whos^  feet  he  sat,  and  who 
helped  him  to  find  himself  ;>'df  the  books  he  lived 
with  ;  -hi  his  intercourse  with  men  ;  of  the  development 
^  ^nd  consolidation  of  his  thought ;  of  his  changing 
/]  outlook  upon  the  world  and  its  problems ;  of  the 
ihodifications  of  his  temper  and  of  the  principles  by 
which  he  governed  his  art  in  the  successive  stages  of  his 
career.  All  the  factors  which  combine  in  the  making 
of  a  man  will  subtly  play  their  parts  in  giving  to  his 
style  its  well-defined  individuality  of  form  and  colour  ; 
all  the  phases  of  his  outer  and  inner  experience  will 
register  themselves  in  it.  In  the  chronological  study  of 
his   writings,   therefore,  it  will  become  interesting  to 


38  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

correlate  the  changes  undergone  by  his  style  with 
contemporaneous  changes  in  his  matter  and  thought.  ^ 
Even  his  defects  of  utterance,  his  limitations,  his 
mannerisms,  will  thus  have  their  value.  Matter  and 
expression  being  no  longer  thought  of  apart,  as  things 
which  have  no  connection  or  at  most  only  an  acci- 
dental one,  style  will  become  for  us  a  real  index  of 
personality,  and  the  way  in  which  a  writer  expresses 
himself  a  commentary  upon  what  he  says. 

^  The  extraordinary  changes  which  came  over  Shakespeare's  style  during 
the  twenty  years  of  his  dramatic  activity  are  familiar  to  all  students  of  the 
plays.  "In  the  earliest  plays  the  language  is  sometimes  as  it  were  a 
dress  put  upon  the  thought — a  dress  ornamented  with  superfluous  care  ; 
the  idea  is  at  times  hardly  sufficient  to  fill  out  the  language  in  which  it  is 
put  ;  in  the  middle  plays  {Julius  Casar  serves  as  an  example)  there 
seems  a  perfect  balance  and  equality  between  the  thought  and  its 
expression.  In  the  latest  plays  this  balance  is  disturbed  by  the  pre- 
ponderance or  excess  of  ideas  over  the  means  of  giving  them  utterance. 
The  sentences  are  close-packed  ;  there  are  *  rapid  and  abrupt  turnings  of 
thought,  so  quick  that  language  can  hardly  follow  fast  enough  ;  impatient 
activity  of  intellect  and  fancy,  which,  having  once  disclosed  an  idea, 
cannot  wait  to  work  it  orderly  out'"  (Dowden,  Primer  of  Shakspere^ 
p.  37).  It  is  evident  that  these  changes  are  simply  the  external  ex- 
pression of  changes  in  thought  and  feeling.  Shakespeare  could  no  more 
have  written  Cymbeline  in  the  style  of  Love's  Labour's  Lost  than  Carlyle 
could  have  written  Sartor  Resartus  in  the  style  of  Washington  Irving. 


CHAPTER  II 

SOME   WAYS    OF    STUDYING   LITERATURE — {concluded) 

I 

AS  we  pass  from  individual  books  to  their 
authors,  so  by  an  equally  natural  transition 
we  pass  from  an  individual  author  to  the  age 

in  which  he  lived,  and  the  nation  to  which  he 

The  His- 
belonged.     We  cannot  go  far  in  our  study  of  toricai 

literature  before  we  realise  that  it  involves  the  ^^^^^ 2^ 

r     ,       ,  .  /.  ,.  A  Literature, 

study  of  the  history  of  literature.     A  great 

writer  is  not  an  isolated  fact.      He  has  his  affiliations 

with  the   present   and   the  past ;  and   through   these 

affiliations  he  leads  us  inevitably  to  his  contemporaries 

and  predecessors,  and  thus  at  length  to  a  sense  of  a 

national   literature  as   a   developing  organism  having 

a  continuous  life  of  its  own,  yet  passing  in  the  course 

of  its  evolution  through  many  varying  phases.     Thus 

in  our  study  of  literature  on   the  historical  side  we 

shall  have  to  consider  two  things — the  continuous  life, 

or  national  spirit  in  it ;  and  the  varying  phases  of  that 

continuous  life,  or  the  way  in  which  it  embodies  and 

expresses  the  changing  spirit  of  successive  ages. 

First,  what  do  we  mean  when  we  speak  of  the  history 

of  any  national  literature — of  the  history  of  Greek, 

or     French,    or    English    literature?       The    ordinary 

text-book  may  perhaps  give  us  the   impression  that 

39 


40  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

we  mean  only  a  chronological  account  of  the  men 
What  is  ^^°  wrote  in  these  languages,  and  of  the 
a  National  books  they  produced,  with  critical  analyses 
ra  ure.  ^^  their  merits  and  defects,  and  some  descrip- 
tion of  literary  schools  and  traditions,  and  of  fluctua- 
tions in  fashions  and  tastes.  But  in  reality  we  mean 
much  more  than  this.  A  nation's  literature  is  not 
a  miscellaneous  collection  of  books  which  happen 
to  have  been  written  in  the  same  tongue  or  within  a 
certain  geographical  area.  It  is  the  progressive  re- 
velation, age  by  age,  of  such  nation's  mind  and  char- 
acter. An  individual  writer  may  vary  greatly  from 
the  national  type,  and  the  variation,  as  we  shall  have 
to  insist  presently,  will  always  be  one  of  the  most 
interesting  things  about  him.  But  his  genius  will  still 
partake  of  the  characteristic  spirit  of  his  race,  and  in 
any  number  of  representative  writers  at  any  given 
time,  that  spirit  will  be  felt  as  a  well-defined  quality 
pervading  them  all.  We  talk  of  the  Greek  spirit  and 
the  Hebrew  spirit.  By  this  we  do  not  of  course 
suggest  that  all  Greeks  thought  and  felt  in  the  same 
way,  that  all  Hebrews  thought  and  felt  in  the  same 
way.  We  simply  mean  that,  when  all  differences  as 
between  man  and  man  have  been  cancelled,  there  re- 
mains in  each  case  a  clearly  recognised  substratum 
of  racial  character,  a  certain  broad  element  common 
to  all  Greeks  as  Greeks,  and  to  all  Hebrews  as 
Hebrews.  It  is  in  this  sense  that  we  speak  of  the 
Hebrew  and  the  Hellenic  views  of  life,  and  compare 
and  contrast  them  with  one  another.  Now,  as  such 
common  qualities  are  most  fully  expressed  in  the 
literatures  of  the  two  peoples — as  Greek  literature  is 
the  completest  revelation  of  the  mind  and  character  of 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  41 

the  Greek  race,  and  Hebrew  literature  of  the  mind  and 
character  of  the  Hebrew  race — it  is  through  their 
literatures  that  we  really  come  to  know  these  peoples 
best,  alike  in  their  strength  and  in  their  limitations,  and 
to  learn  at  first  hand  what  they  have  contributed  to 
the  permanent  intellectual  and  spiritual  possessions  of 
the  world.  We  travel  that  we  may  see  other  nations 
at  home — their  "  cities  of  men  and  manners,  climates, 
councils,  governments  "  ;  and  this  we  rightly  conceive 
as  an  important  agency  in  humane  culture.  The  study 
of  literature  is  a  form  of  travel ;  it  enables  us  to  move 
about  freely  among  the  minds  of  other  races  ;  with 
this  additional  advantage  that,  as  Professor  Barrett 
Wendell  has  happily  said,  it  gives  us  the  power  of 
travelling  also  an  time.  We  become  familiar  not  only 
with  the  minds  of  other  races,  but  with  the  minds  of 
other  epochs  as  well. 

The  history  of  any  nation's  literature,  then,  is  the 
record  of  the  unfolding  of  that  nation's  genius  and 
character  under  one  of  its  most  important  forms  of 
expression.  In  this  way  literature  becomes  at  once 
a  supplement  to  what  we  ordinarily  call  history  and  a 
commentary  upon  it.  History  deals  mainly  with  the 
externals  of  a  people's  civilisation,  portrays  the  out- 
ward manner  of  their  existence,  and  tells  us  what  they 
did  or  failed  to  do  in  the  practical  work  of  the  world. 
But  it  is  to  their  literature  that  we  must  turn  if  we 
would  understand  their  mental  and  moral  characteristics, 
realise  what  they  sought  and  achieved  in  the  world  of 
inner  activity,  and  follow  through  the  stages  of  their 
changing  fortunes  the  ebb  and  flow  of  the  forces  which 
fed  their  emotional  energies  and  shaped  their  intellectual 
and  spiritual  life. 


42  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

II 

We  thus  come  to  a  singularly  interesting  and  fertile 
line  of  inquiry — the  study  of  the  literature  of  an  age 
as  the  expression  of  its  characteristic  spirit  and  ideals. 

Even  the  most  casual  reader  is  soon  struck  by  the 

many  qualities  exhibited  in  common  by  writers 
Literature    .    ,         .  ,  .  . 

and  the       belongmg  to  the  same  time,  no  matter  how 

th"!*^^  widely  these  may  differ  among  themselves. 
There  is  perceptible  among  them  a  marked 
family  likeness ;  or,  as  Shelley  put  it,  *'  a  general 
resemblance  under  which  their  specific  distinctions  are 
arranged."  ^  We  have  said  that  in  order  to  get  a  clear 
idea  of  the  salient  features  of  Shakespeare's  genius 
and  art  it  is  necessary  to  compare  and  contrast  him 
with  his  fellow-playwrights.  Though  in  doing  this  we 
shall  at  first  be  most  strongly  impressed  by  those  out- 
standing elements  in  his  personality  which  set  him 
altogether  apart  from  men  like  Marlowe,  Jonson, 
Fletcher,  Webster,  we  shall  hardly  fail  presently  to 
observe  also  in  how  many  ways  he  none  the  less 
resembled  them,  as  they  in  turn  resembled  each  other. 
Taking  them  as  a  group, and  considering  alike  the  matter 
and  texture  of  their  work  and  its  form  and  spirit,  we 
shall  find  in  them  a  predominant  and  unmistakable 
common  note  ;  we  shall  feel  that  these  Elizabethan 
dramatists  are  united  by  a  number  of  elementary 
characteristics  which  sharply  distinguish  them  as  a 
group  from  the  men  of  Pope's  time  and  the  men  of 
Wordsworth's  time.  It  is  these  group-characteristics 
which  we  have  now  to  investigate  if  we  would  grasp 
the  underlying  principles  and  the  historic  significance  of 
that  large  and  intensely  fascinating  body  of  work  which 

^  Preface  to  Prometheus  Unbound. 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  43 

we  call  roughly  the  Elizabethan,  or,  more  correctly,  the 
English  romantic  drama,  and  if  we  would  see  that 
work  in  its  vital  relationships,  not  with  this  or  that 
author  only — Shakespeare  or  any  other — but  with  the 
whole  social  world  out  of  which  it  came.  Hence,  how- 
ever much  Shakespeare  himself  as  a  unit  may  interest 
us  by  the  distinctive  qualities  of  his  individuality, 
attention  to  these  must  not  be  allowed  to  blind  us  to 
the  fact  that  he  too,  like  his  companions  and  rivals, 
was  after  all  the  product  and  exponent  of  a  particular 
phase  of  civilisation  and  culture,  and  that  we  may  get 
far  into  the  heart  of  the  conditions  and  tendencies  of 
his  time  if  we  devote  ourselves  to  the  consideration  of 
the  generic  as  well  as  to  the  specific  aspects  of  his 
writings.  Clear  as  this  principle  of  historical  inter- 
pretation should  be,  it  may  yet  be  well  to  illustrate  it 
in  a  somewhat  different  way.  If  we  place  Pope  side 
by  side  with  Tennyson  we  shall  of  course  be  struck  at 
once  by  the  glaring  contrast  between  the  two  poets, 
and  our  first  impulse  will  probably  be  to  regard  this 
as  merely  a  contrast  of  personality  in  the  narrowest 
sense  of  that  word.  But  as  a  contrast  of  personality 
only  it  cannot  be  entirely  explained.  The  writings  of 
both  Pope  and  Tennyson  everywhere  bear,  mingling 
with  their  individual  qualities,  the  unmistakable  im- 
press of  those  impersonal  forces  of  their  respective 
epochs  which  combined  to  create  what  we  describe  as 
the  Zeitgeist  or  Time-Spirit  of  the  age  of  Anne  and 
the  Victorian  era  ;  and  if  we  should  be  troubled  by 
any  doubt  as  to  the  reality  and  importance  of  such 
Time-spirit,  it  will  be  dissipated  on  our  observing  that 
precisely  where  the  two  poets  differ  most  radically 
from    each    other   there   they  often    remind  us  most 


44  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

distinctly  of  their  contemporaries.  Apart  from  all 
considerations  of  individual  genius  and  temper,  The 
Rape  of  the  Lock  could  hardly  have  been  born  of  the 
age  which  produced  The  Princess.  Pope's  mock-epic 
belongs  to  the  days  of  The  Spectator,  Tennyson's 
medley  to  those  of  Charlotte  Bronte's  novels  and  Mrs 
Browning's  Aurora  Leigh  ;  which  means  that  all  the 
vast  and  far-reaching  changes  in  the  thought  of  a 
hundred  years  concerning  women  and  their  place  in 
society  and  on  many  other  matters,  have  to  be  taken 
into  account  in  estimating  the  difference  between  two 
works  which  thus  regarded  become  broadly  typical 
of  much  beyond  the  individual  poets'  characters  and 
intentions.  In  the  same  way,  the  Essay  on  Man  and 
In  Memoriam  express  the  mood  and  speculation,  the 
one  of  an  epoch  of  facile  and  superficial  optimism, 
the  other  of  an  epoch  of  heart-searching  doubt  and 
spiritual  struggle,  quite  as  clearly  as  they  set  forth 
respectively  the  thoughts  and  feelings  of  the  poet- 
philosophers  themselves.  Once  more,  the  contrast 
between  Tennyson's  intense  love  of  nature  and  the 
conspicuous  absence  of  any  signs  of  such  love 
in  the  town  poetry  of  Pope,  is  one  that  has  to  be 
interpreted  on  a  wider  basis  than  that  furnished  by 
any  consideration  of  mere  personal  differences  of 
taste  and  temper.  It  is  a  contrast  which  will  be  found 
to  hold  good  as  between  all  the  poets  of  Tennyson's 
time  as  a  class,  and  all  the  poets  of  Pope's  time  as 
a  class.  The  deep  feeling  for  nature  which  is  one 
of  the  most  marked  characteristics  of  our  nineteenth 
century  poetry  as  a  whole  is  evidently,  then,  in  large 
measure  the  product  of  a  changing  Time-spirit  working 
more  or  less  uniformly  on  many  different  minds,  and 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  45 

tending  at  this  point  to  bring  them  into  a  certain  sub- 
stantial harmony  with  one  another. 

As  there  is  a  common  racial  character  in  the  literary 
productions  of  any  given  people,  so  therefore  there  is  a 
common  time-character  in  the  literary  productions  of 
such  people  at  any  given  period.  A  nation's  life  has 
its  moods  of  exultation  and  depression  ;  its  epochs 
now  of  strong  faith  and  strenuous  idealism,  now  of 
doubt,  struggle  and  disillusion,  now  of  unbelief  and 
flippant  disregard  for  the  sanctities  of  existence  ;  and 
while  the  manner  of  expression  will  vary  greatly 
with  the  individuality  of  each  writer,  the  dominant 
spirit  of  the  hour,  whatever  that  may  be,  will  directly 
or  indirectly  reveal  itself  in  his  work  ;  since  every 
man,  according  to  Goethe's  dictum,  is  a  citizen  of  his 
age  as  well  as  of  his  country,  and  since,  as  Renan  put 
it,  "  one  belongs  to  one's  century  and  race  even  when 
one  reacts  against  one's  century  and  race." 

Thus  when  we  speak  of  periods  of  literature — of  the 
literature  of  the  age  of  Pericles  or  Augustus, 
of  Louis  XI V.  or  the  Revolution,  of  Elizabeth    Epochs  of 

or  Anne  or  Victoria — we  have  in  mind  some-    J;f*6rary 

History, 
thing  far  more  important  than  the  establish- 
ment of  such  chronological  divisions  as  may  be 
arbitrarily  made  for  the  sake  of  mere  convenience. 
Such  phrases  really  refer  to  differential  characteristics 
— to  those  distinctive  qualities  of  theme,  treatment, 
manner,  spirit,  tone,  by  which  the  literature  of  each 
period  as  a  whole  is  marked,  which  are  more  or  less 
pronounced  in  all  the  writers  of  that  period,  and  by 
virtue  of  which  these  writers,  despite  their  individual 
differences,  stand  together  as  a  group  in  contrast  with 
the  groups  formed  by  the  writers  of  other  periods. 


46  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEKATUKE 

We  have,  therefore,  to  study  the  literature  of  an  age, 

as  we  study  the  writings  of  each  separate  author,  as  a 

great  body  of  work  expressing  a  common  spirit  under 

many  diverse  individual  forms.     We  may  of  course  do 

this,  after  the  habit  of  many  historians  of  literature,  by 

looking  no  further  than    literature    itself.     Our  chief 

object  will  then  be  to  investigate  the  origin,  growth, 

and  decay  of  literary  fashions  and  tastes,  the  formation 

of  schools,  the  rise  and  fall  of  critical  standards  and 

ideals,  the  influence  of  particular  men  in  initiating  fresh 

tendencies  and  giving  a  new  direction  to  literature,  and 

so   on  ;   keeping    meanwhile    strictly    to    the    literary 

phenomena    themselves,    and    conceiving    of 

as  the         these  as  explicable  by  reference  only  to  such 

Product  of  forces  as  lie  within  the  field  of  literary 
Society.  ^ 

activity.        Of     this     narrower     method    of 

treatment  I  shall  have  something  more  to  say  presently. 
But  those  who  care  pre-eminently  for  the  life  which  is 
in  literature  will  scarcely  be  content  to  rest  at  this 
point  of  view.  They  will  rather  press  on  to  examine 
the  connection  of  the  literature  of  the  period  under 
consideration  with  all  the  motive  forces  at  work  outside 
literature  in  the  society  of  the  time.  If  we  ask,  for 
example.  Why  did  our  English  writers  produce  and 
English  readers  enjoy,  at  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury. The  Faery  Queene^  at  the  end  of  the  seventeenth, 
The  Hind  and  the  Panther^  at  the  end  of  the  eighteenth, 
the  poems  of  Burns  and  Cowper  ?  or.  Why  did  the  age 
of  Shakespeare  find  its  main  artistic  outlet  in  the  drama, 
and  what  were  the  causes  which  combined  in  the 
eighteenth  century  to  bring  about  the  decline  of  the 
drama  and  the  rise  of  the  modern  form  of  prose 
fiction  ?   or.  How  are  we  to  account  for  the  general 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  47 

coldness  and  aridity  of  the  literature  of  Pope's  time, 
and  for  the  strong  and  often  stormy  passion  which 
swept  into  poetry  with  the  development  of  what  we 
call  Romanticism  ?  then  we  have  to  seek  our  answers 
in  considerations  which  carry  us  far  beyond  all  questions 
of  literary  taste  and  critical  theories.  The  historian 
of  literature  may  indeed  object  that  with  all  these 
remoter  problems  he  as  a  student  simply  of  literature 
has  really  nothing  to  do ;  that  his  business  is  entirely 
with  books  as  he  finds  them,  and  with  such  forces  as 
lie,  as  I  have  put  it,  v/ithin  the  field  of  literary  activity. 
We  need  not  quarrel  with  those  who  take  up  such  a 
position  ;  rather,  we  may  gladly  allow  them  to  do 
their  own  work  in  their  own  way,  while  we  ourselves 
profit  to  the  fullest  extent  by  the  results.  At  the  same 
time  we  have  to  insist  that  the  domain  of  literature 
cannot  permanently  be  thus  isolated,  and  that  really 
to  understand  literature  we  have  continually  to  get 
out  of  literature  into  the  life  by  which  it  is  fed.  As  T 
behind  every  book  that  is  written  lies  the  personality 
of  the  man  who  wrote  it,  and  as  behind  every  national 
literature  lies  the  character  of  the  race  which  produced 
it,  so  behind  the  literature  of  any  period  lie  the  com- 
bined forces — personal  and  impersonal — which  made 
the  life  of  that  period,  as  a  whole,  what  it  was. 
Literature  is  only  one  of  the  many  channels  in  which 
the  energy  of  an  age  discharges  itself;  in  its  political 
movements,  religious  thought,  philosophical  speculation, 
art,  we  have  the  same  energy  overflowing  into  other 
forms  of  expression.  The  study  of  English  literature, 
for  example,  will  thus  take  us  out  into  the  wide  field 
of  English  history,  by  which  we  mean  the  history  of 
English   politics   and   society,   manners   and  customs, 


48  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

culture  and  learning,  philosophy  and  religion.  How- 
ever diverse  the  characteristics  which  make  up  the  sum- 
total  of  the  life  of  an  epoch,  these,  like  the  qualities 
which  combine  in  an  individual,  are  not,  as  Taine  puts 
it,  merely  "  juxtaposed "  ;  they  are  interrelated  and 
interdependent.  Our  aim  must  therefore  be  to  correlate 
the  literature  of  any  age  we  may  take  for  consideration 
with  all  the  other  important  aspects  of  the  national 
activity  of  the  time.  In  doing  this  we  must  of  course 
remember  that  the  age  in  question  grew  out  of  that 
which  preceded  it ;  that  its  own  spirit  and  ideals  were 
never  fixed  or  settled,  but  were  on  the  contrary  in  a 
continuous  process  of  transformation  ;  and,  above  all, 
that  many  different  and  often  conflicting  tendencies 
(some  arising  in  natural  reaction  against  others)  are 
always  to  be  found  at  work  together  in  the  civilisation 
of  any  period.  This  means  that  we  have  not  only  to 
investigate  the  literature  of  any  given  moment  in  con- 
nection with  the  then  existing  state  of  society,  but 
have  also  to  follow  the  movements  of  literature  in  their 
connection  with  contemporaneous  movements  and 
cross-currents  in  other  regions  of  life  and  thought. 

Thus, — to  take  a  single  illustration  only,  and  this 
from  a  field  which  lies  very  near  to  the  sympathies 
of  every  reader, — the  literature  of  the  Victorian  era, 
marvellously  rich  as  it  is  in  the  range  and  variety  of 
its  purely  personal  interests,  will  gain  immensely  in 
significance  and  value  if  we  study  it  in  detail  in  its 
relations  with  the  many-sided  life  and  activities,  with 
all  the  great  intellectual  and  social  movements  and 
counter-movements,  of  Victorian  England — with  the 
growth  of  democracy,  humanitarianism,  and  the  zeal 
for  reform  ;  with  the   enormous   progress   of  science, 


WAYS  OF  STUDYII^G  LITERATURE  49 

and  the  profound  disturbance  of  thought  produced  by 
this ;  with  the  immense  industrial  changes  brought 
about  in  large  part  by  the  application  of  science  to 
practical  life ;  with  the  resultant  struggle  between 
materialism  and  idealism,  upon  both  the  theoretical 
and  the  practical  sides  ;  with  the  art-revival ;  with  the 
development  of  the  romantic  spirit  prompting  men  to 
seek  an  imaginative  escape  into  the  past  ;  with  the 
later  blending  of  this  romantic  spirit  with  the  spirit  of 
reform  ;  and  so  on.  Thus  studied,  Victorian  literature, 
while  never  for  a  moment  ceasing  to  appeal  to  us  as 
the  varied  product  of  many  different  minds  working 
independently  upon  the  most  divergent  lines,  will  be 
found  to  exhibit  fresh  depths  of  interest  and  meaning 
as  a  revelation  of  the  thoughts  and  feelings,  the 
aspirations  and  ideals,  the  doubts  and  struggles,  the 
faith  and  hope,  of  a  great,  intense,  complex,  and 
turbulent  period  of  our  history. 


Ill 

From    my    thus    emphasising    the    immediate  and 
necessary  connection  between  the  literature 
of  an  age  and  the  general  life  out  of  which  por^^^g. 
it  grows  it  may  be  inferred  that  I   am  to  a  of  Liter- 
certain  extent  following   the  lead  of  Taine,  ^on.^^^^^ 
who   attempted   to   interpret  literature  in   a 
rigorously  scientific  way  by  the  application  of  his  famous 
formula  of  the   race,  the   milieu,  and    the   moment ; 
meaning  by  race,   the    hereditary   temperament    and 
disposition  of  a  people  ;  by  milieu,  the  totality  of  their 
surroundings,     their     climate,    physical     environment, 
political   institutions,  social  conditions,  and  the  like ; 


/ 


50  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

and  by  moment,  the  spirit  of  the  period,  or  of  that  par- 
ticular stage  of  national  development  which  has  been 
reached  at  any  given  time.^I  must,  however,  hasten 
to  add  that  I  am  no  disciple  of  the  brilliant  French 
theorist.  Suggestive  as  his  method  may  be  when 
employed  carefully  and  with  a  full  sense  of  its  limita- 
tions, it  is  still  clear  that  it  breaks  down  completely 
at  several  important  points.  I  do  not  now  dwell  upon 
the  fact,  which  must  be  patent  to  every  reader  who 
takes  up  his  Literary  History  of  the  English  People, 
that  Taine's  interest  is  in  reality  not  in  literature  as 
literature,  but  in  literature  as  a  document  in  the 
history  of  national  psychology,  and  that  thus,  sub- 
ordinating as  he  does  the  study  of  literature  to  the 
study  of  society,  he  necessarily  approaches  the  problem 
of  their  relationship  from  a  point  of  view  and  with  a 
purpose  quite  different  from  our  own.  Setting  this 
consideration  aside,  I  shall  content  myself  with 
indicating  two  conspicuous  defects  of  his  method  as 
it  directly  concerns  the  student  of  literature  itself. 

According  to  Taine's  theory,  all  the  individuals  of 
Yjjg  a  nation   at    any  particular  time   are  to  be 

Formula  regarded  simply  as  the  products  of  the  three 
cri  deed,  g^.^^^^  impersonal  forces  which  he  evokes  to 
account  for  them  ;  and  thus  the  study  of  any  author 
is  reduced  by  him  to  an  examination  of  the  manner 
in  which  his  genius  and  work  express  the  combined 
action  of  the  influences  which  play  upon  him  in 
common  with  all  his  fellow-countrymen  and  con- 
temporaries. The  initial  error  in  this  view,  and  it  is 
one  that  goes  far  to  vitiate  it  entirely,  is  its  neglect  of 
that  essential  factor  of  all  really  great  literature  upon 
which  I  have  already  laid  so  much  stress — the  factor 


WAYS  OF  STUDYI^^Ci  LITERATURE  51 

of  personality.  In  Taine's  hands  the  individual  ^ 
becomes  little  naore  than  a  sample  of  his  race  and  J 
epoch.  Thus  he  practically  overlooks  the  individual 
variation,  or  the  qualities  which  differentiate  a  man 
from  his  surroundings  ;  and  this  is  a  fatal  mistake, 
since  the  greater  the  genius,  the  greater  and  the  more 
important  the  individual  variation,  the  differential 
qualities,  are  likely  to  be.  It  is  the  minor  men  of  an 
age  in  whose  work  the  general  spirit  of  that  age  is 
most  faithfully  reflected,  and  by  which  it  is  trans- 
mitted with  the  least  amount  of  personal  colouring  ;  a 
fact  which  shows  that  from  the  historical  point  of  view 
these  minor  men  will  always  have  a  special  interest  of 
their  own.  The  strong  man  is  most  himself,  is  most 
independent  of  current  influences,  and  it  is  in  its 
application  to  his  work,  therefore,  that  the  scientific 
formula  will  leave  most  unexplained.  "  It  has  been 
said  that  the  man  of  genius  sometimes  is  such  in 
virtue  of  combining  the  temperament  distinctive  of  his 
nation  with  some  gift  of  his  own  which  is  foreign  to 
that  temperament ;  as  in  Shakespeare,  the  basis  is 
English,  and  the  individual  gift  a  flexibility  of  spirit 
which  is  not  normally  English."  ^  So  with  the  man  of 
genius  and  the  spirit  of  his  time  ;  we  must  make  "the 
fullest  allowance  for  the  individual  gift,  the  marked 
and  exceptional  personal  quality,  which  combines  in 
him  with  the  common  characteristics  of  the  world  to 
which  he  belongs  ;  and  unless  we  do  this — unless,  m 
other  words,  we  lay  hold  of  precisely  those  features  of 
his  genius  which  are  not  to  be  accounted  for  by  any 
reference  to  his  race,  surroundings,  and  period — we 
shall  misunderstand  him  altogether.       In  the  historic 

^  Jebb,  Classical  Greek  History^  p.  29. 


52  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

study  of  literature,  then,  we  are  quite  as  much  con- 
cerned with  variations  from  the  predominant  type 
as  with  the  type  itself.  After  investigating  in  the 
greatest  detail  the  way  in  which  the  forces  of  an  age 
entered  as  formative  factors  into  the  personality  of  any 
great  writer,  and  helped  to  give  direction  and  tone  to 
his  work,  we  are  still  brought  back  to  that  which  no 
formula  will  elucidate,  and  no  analysis  explain — the 
original,  mysterious,  incommunicable  element  of 
personal  genius  itself.  This  we  must  be  content  to 
take  as  we  find  it ;  and  however  wide  the  lines  of  our 
subsequent  inquiry,  it  is  from  this  that  we  have  to  set 
out  as  our  datum  and  point  of  departure. 

In  one  other  most  important  respect  Taine's 
theory  must  be  pronounced  unsatisfactory.  Neglecting 
the  individual,  he  naturally  neglects  personality  as 
an  originating  force.  He  notes  the  manner  in  which 
^the  age  affects  the  author ;  the  manner  in  which 
^  the  author  affects  the  age  he  does  not  note.  But 
the  relation  of  literature  and  life  is  a  double-sided 
relation  ;  while  the  work  of  a  great  author  is  fed 
by  the  combined  influences  of  his  epoch,  it  enters 
again  into  that  epoch  as  one  of  its  most  potent 
seminal  elements.  If  we  cannot  understand  Victorian 
literature  unless  we  connect  it  with  the  large  social 
and  intellectual  movements  of  Victorian  civilisation, 
neither  can  we  understand  these  movements  themselves 
unless  we  realise  how  they  were  stimulated,  or  guided, 
or  checked,  by  contemporary  literature.  The  names 
of  Tennyson  and  Browning,  of  Carlyle,  and  Ruskin, 
and  Dickens — to  take  the  most  prominent  examples 
only — are  the  names  of  men  who  counted  enormously 
in  the  development  of  the  Time-spirit  of  the  world 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  53 

in  which  they  lived.  In  our  own  study,  therefore, 
we  must  be  careful  to  keep  this  double-sided  relation- 
ship always  in  view.  We  must  regard  the  great 
writer  as  the  creator  as  well  as  the  creature  of  his 
time,  and  while  keen  to  appreciate  what  the  age 
gave  to  him,  we  must  be  equally  solicitous  to  discover 
what  in  turn  he  gave  to  the  age. 

It  is  evident,  then,  that  Taine's  attempt  to  write 
the  Literary  History  of  the  English  People  jnt^ygg^ 
on  the  basis  of  a  formula  in  which  the  funda-  ofLitera- 
mental  element  of  individuality  is  practically  J^e^ocio- 
ignored,  was  necessarily  foredoomed  to  failure,  logical 
and  that,  in  the  nature  of  things,  no 
such  scientific  treatment  of  literary  facts  and  problems 
can  be  other  than  disappointing,  at  any  rate  for  the 
student  of  literature.  It  remains  for  us  none  the 
less  to  insist  on  the  great  interest  and  importance 
of  the  study  of  literature  as  literature  on  the  socio- 
logical side.  It  is  sometimes  felt  that  to  take 
literature  in  this  way  is  to  destroy  our  personal 
sense  of  the  life  in  it ;  that  when  we  adopt  the 
historical  method,  great  books,  instead  of  being 
enjoyed  as  expressions  of  individual  thought  and 
feeling  and  masterpieces  of  art,  come  to  be  regarded 
rather  as  specimens  to  be  analysed  with  critical  dis- 
interestedness, or  classified  and  ticketed  like  the  bones 
of  dead  animals  in  a  museum  of  anatomy.  One 
may  well  be  pardoned  for  sympathising  with  such 
a  misgiving.  At  the  same  time  it  should  now  be 
apparent  that  it  is  really  founded  upon  a  mistaken 
idea  of  the  historic  method  and  its  results.  To 
relate  literature  to  the  whole  world  of  varied  activity 
of  which    it    is    one   expression,   is    not    to    destroy 


54  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

its  living  interest,  but  to  make  that  interest  broader 
and  deeper ;  without  ceasing  to  be  essentially  in- 
dividual, literature  thus  comes  to  be  more  com- 
prehensively human,  as  a  record  of  the  life  of  man 
as  well  as  of  the  lives  of  men.  Moreover,  by 
realising  the  relativity  of  literature  we  gain  a  point 
of  view  from  which  every  aspect  of  literary  art 
becomes  quickened  for  us  into  fresh  significance. 
Henceforth  we  need  not  find  any  period  of  literary 
history  wholly  wanting  in  the  quality  of  life.  Much 
of  the  literature  of  the  past  must  on  our  first  approach 
to  it  necessarily  seem  to  us  both  dull  and  unattractive 
— matter  for  the  specialist,  not  for  the  general  student. 
Thoughts,  feelings,  ideals  change  ;  the  fashion  of  their 
utterance  changes  likewise ;  chasms  yawn  between 
us  and  bye-gone  generations ;  and  many  a  book 
which  once  held  its  readers  spellbound  seems  a 
vapid  and  futile  thing  to  us  who  belong  to  another 
age,  and  are  touched  by  other  modes  of  passion  and 
other  manners  of  speech.  Our  text-book  writers 
and  professional  critics  seldom  acknowledge  this,  and 
by  their  failure  to  do  so  they  often  discourage  young 
and  untried  students,  who  are  apt  to  feel  that 
their  own  inability  to  take  a  vital  and  personal  interest 
in  many  books  which  figure  prominently  in  the 
annals  of  literature  is  entirely  due  to  some  radical 
defect  in  themselves.  This  is  not  necessarily  so. 
Of  even  the  greater  books  of  the  past  there  are 
comparatively  few  which  have  not  suffered  more  or 
less  seriously,  while  all  but  the  very  greatest  have 
suffered  much,  from  the  changes  which  are  ever 
going  on  in  life,  fashion,  taste ;  and  it  is  at  once 
idle  and  unwise  to  attempt  to  deny  this  fact  or  to 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  55 

shirk  its  obvious  implications.  But  it  is  precisely  here 
that  the  value  of  what  we  call  the  historic  or  socio- 
logical study  of  literature  should  become  apparent. 
When  we  take  up  the  historic  point  of  view,  we  can 
carry  every  book,  even  the  dullest,  back  into  the  life  out 
of  which  it  originally  grew  ;  we  can  place  ourselves  to 
some  extent  in  the  relations  of  its  first  readers  with  it ; 
and  the  result  is  that  the  rich  life-blood  of  humanity 
begins  to  flow  once  more  through  its  long-dead  pages. 
Forms  of  art,  which  to  us  are  simply  archaic — subjects 
and  methods  which  can  never  now  be  revived — suddenly 
become  of  interest.  If  only  as  a  record  of  what  men 
once  found  potent  to  move,  charm,  console,  inspire — 
if  only  as  an  example  of  what  once  seemed  beautiful 
and  engaging  to  them — literature  which  we  might 
otherwise  pass  over  as  hopelessly  deficient  in  every 
element  of  appeal  reveals  itself  as  worthy  of  close 
and  sympathetic  attention.  It  will  live  again  for  us  if 
only  by  virtue  of  the  life  which  was  once  in  it. 


IV 

The  comparative  method,  the  importance  of  which 

in  the  study  of  individual  authors  has  already 

been    recognised,   becomes    of   great   service  parative 

when  we  are  dealing^  with  literature  historic-  Method  in 

^  the  His- 

ally  ;  but  after  what  I  have  said  in  discussing  toncai 

the  relations  of  literature  with  the  life  of  the  ?*f  ^^^^^ 

Literature. 

race    and    age,    this    aspect    of   our   subject 
hardly  calls  for  elaboration.      No  one  who  passes  from 
the  literature  of  one  nation  or  epoch  to  that  of  another 
nation  or  epoch  will   fail  to  be  struck  by  the  complete 
change  in  intellectual  and  moral  atmosphere.  Now  as  the 


56  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

study  of  literature  here  as  elsewhere  means  an  effort  to 
define  and  correlate  phenomena  which  in  casual  reading 
we  allow  to  remain  vague  and  unconnected,  it  will  be  the 
business  of  the  student  as  he  pursues  his  inquiries  along 
these  wider  lines,  to  note  carefully  and  to  formulate  those 
fundamental  differences  which  are  frequently  obscured 
by  our  paramount  interest  in  individual  authors,  or  are 
at  most  simply  taken  for  granted.  He  will  thus  be 
led,  for  example,  to  consider  the  various  ways  in  which 
the  large,  permanent  themes  of  literature — love,  hatred, 
jealousy,  ambition,  men's  common  joys  and  sorrows, 
the  problems  of  life  and  destiny  which  were  already 
old  when  literature  began,  and  are  as  new  as  ever  to- 
day— are  taken  up  and  handled,  not  merely  by  differ- 
ent great  writers,  but  also  by  different  peoples  and  at 
different  times.  He  will  observe  how  now  one  subject 
and  now  another  comes  to  the  front,  and  for  a  while 
holds  the  chief  place  in  story  and  song,  and  he  will  in- 
vestigate the  causes  of  such  ebb  and  flow  of  interest. 
He  will  mark  the  changes  in  temper,  tone,  emphasis, 
perspective,  as  he  follows  the  same  motive  through  its 
various  forms  of  expression  ;  the  motive,  say,  of  the 
love  of  man  and  woman,  from  Greek  tragedy  to 
mediaeval  romance,  from  the  drama  of  the  age  of 
Shakespeare  to  that  of  the  Restoration,  from  the  prose 
fiction  of  the  eighteenth  to  that  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  from  the  English  novel  to  that  of  contemporary 
France.  And  discovering,  moreover,  that  now  one 
vehicle  of  expression  and  now  another  is  for  a  time 
in  the  ascendant,  he  will  endeavour  to  trace  the  history 
of  the  transformation  and  alternation  of  the  great 
literary  forms — such  as  the  lyric,  the  drama,  the  novel 
— under  changing  conditions  and  in  response  to  shift- 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  S7 

ing  conceptions  of  literary  art,  as  they  are  freshly 
shaped  to  ever-varying  uses  by  the  masters  of  different 
nations  and  of  different  periods. 

In  his  exploration  of  the  vast  field  of  study  thus 
opened  up — a  field,  it  is  clear,  of  almost  inexhaustible 
interest — the  reader  will  find  one  special  line  of  inquiry 
particularly  worthy  of  his  attention. 

Even  if,  our  interest  in  literature  being  of  the  most 
narrowly  personal  kind,  we  set  out  with  the  purpose  of 
confining  ourselves  to  the  writings  of  a  single  favourite 
author,  we  are  certain  sooner  or  later  to  discover  that 
we  shall  never  properly  understand  such  author  if  we 
remain  obstinately  within  the  limits  of  his  own  person- 
ality and  work.  We  are  repeatedly  reminded  by  him 
of  the  influence  exerted  upon  his  thought  and  style  by 
the  thought  and  style  of  other  men,  and  to  estimate  him 
rightly  we  have  to  take  account  of  such  influence,  ^y^^  inter- 
to  consider  its  sources,  range,  and  significance,  action  of 
and  to  measure  its  extent  for  good  or  evil.  Epochs  in 
And  if,  recognising  the  personal  forces  which  Literary 
helped  to  shape  his  character  and  art,  we  turn, 
as  presently  we  shall  of  necessity  be  led  to  turn,  to  the 
question  of  his  influence  upon  the  thought  and  style  of 
others,  we  shall  come  to  see  that  our  study  of  individual 
authors  involves  us  everywhere  in  the  study  of  the 
power  exercised  by  mind  upon  mind.  In  precisely 
the  same  way,  in  the  general  evolution  of  literature, 
will  the  genius  of  one  race  or  age  be  found  to  have  in- 
fluenced— sometimes  slightly,  sometimes  to  the  extent 
of  turning  it  aside  from  its  natural  course  of  develop- 
ment, and  of  almost  destroying  for  a  season  its  essential 
characteristics — the  genius  of  another  race  or  age  ;  and 
thus,  in  our  reading  of  the  history  of  literature,  we  can- 


58  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

not  go  far  before  we  find  ourselves  committed  to  the 
consideration  of  the  various  tributary  streams,  small  or 
great,  by  which  the  literature  of  each  country  and  each 
generation  has  been  fed.  Even  the  briefest  text-book 
of  the  literary  history  of  Italy,  France,  or  England,  will 
tell  us  something  of  the  enormous  changes  wrought 
during  the  period  of  the  revival  of  learning  by  the 
enthusiastic  study  of  the  classics,  which  not  only 
furnished  artistic  inspiration  and  set  fresh  models  and 
standards  of  taste,  but  by  bringing  men  into  living 
contact  with  the  genius  of  Greece  and  Rome,  and 
with  a  world  of  thought,  feeling,  and  ideals,  which  was 
then  entirely  new  to  them,  did  much  to  emancipate 
their  minds  from  the  trammels  of  effete  dogmatism, 
and  to  break  up  the  intellectual  and  religious  fabric  of 
the  middle  ages.  A  fact  of  chief  importance  then  in 
the  genesis  of  the  modern  spirit  and  of  modern  litera- 
tures at  the  time  of  the  Renaissance,  this  influence  of 
pagan  antiquity  alike  on  form  and  on  thought  has  to 
be  followed  through  all  their  later  developments  as  a 
constituent  agency,  varying  greatly  in  the  extent  and 
intensity  of  its  power,  and  in  the  modes  of  its  mani- 
festation, but  never  wholly  lost  ;  and  thus  the  student 
of  the  history  of  literature  has  to  inquire  where  and 
when  it  has  been  in  the  ascendant,  and  v/hen  and 
where  it  has  waned  ;  to  seek  the  causes  of  these 
fluctuations,  and  to  consider  how  far,  at  different  epochs, 
classicism  has  proved  fruitful  of  good  by  stimulating 
original  activity  and  leading  men  to  higher  conceptions 
of  art,  and  how  far  it  has  been  detrimental  by  paralys- 
ing individual  genius  and  turning  literature  into  by-paths 
of  pedantic  theory  and  lifeless  imitation. 

Here,  then,  in  one  of  the  most  familiar  facts  in  the 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATUEE  59 

history  of  modern  literatures  we  have  an  illustration  of 
the  profound  influence  exerted  by  the  genius  and  art  of 
one  race  upon  those  of  other  races.^  Another  example 
is  furnished  by  the  interchange  of  influence  during 
something  like  a  century  and  a  half,  first  between 
the  literatures  of  France  and  England,  and  then 
between  the  literatures  of  England  and  Germany. 

Soon  after  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth 
century  a  variety  of  circumstances,  political  tion: 
and  other,  combined  to  brins^  English  genius  Literary 

J        .1-  r    .u  •  r    T?  Relations 

under   the   sway   of  the    genms   of   France,  of  England 

Thus  we  enter  upon   what  the  historian   of  ^^ 

Franc6 

our  literature  is  accustomed  to  describe  as  the 
period  of  French  influence.  "  Until  the  time  of 
Charles  I.",  English  literature,  "  in  so  far  as  it  owed 
anything  to  external  patterns  of  modern  date,  had 
been  chiefly  dependent  upon  Italy  ".  (The  importance 
of  Italian  culture  and  art  as  a  force  in  the  English 
literature  of  the  Renaissance,  is  not,  it  may  be  said  in 

^  For  the  sake  of  brevity  I  refer  to  the  literatures  of  classical  antiquity 
as  if  they  constituted  a  single  body  of  work,  similar  in  character  and  of 
equal  importance.  To  guard  against  misapprehension  I  should  add  that 
this  is  of  course  only  a  conventional  and  quite  uncritical  fashion  of  speech. 
One  of  the  great  mistakes  in  theory  and  practice  down  to  comparatively 
recent  times — as  in  the  age  of  Boileau  in  France  and  in  the  age  of  Pope 
in  England — has  been  the  confusion  of  the  original  literature  of  Greece 
with  the  merely  derivative  and  second-hand  literature  of  Rome,  and  the 
consequent  exaggeration  of  the  claims  of  the  latter.  The  "classic" 
periods,  so  called,  of  all  modern  literatures  show  the  fatal  results  of  this 
error.  In  such  periods,  the  immediate  source  of  inspiration  has  always 
been  the  literature  of  Rome  ;  little  has  been  known  of  Greek  culture,  and 
that  little  has  come  mainly  through  the  medium  of  the  Latins.  Hence 
the  discovery  of  the  secret  of  true  Hellenism  in  the  second  half  of  the 
eighteenth  century  helped  greatly,  in  the  hands  of  such  men  as  Lessing, 
to  destroy  the  tyranny  of  pseudo-classicism,  and  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of 
originality  against  imitation  in  literary  art. 


6o  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

passing,  quite  adequately  recognised  in  this  sentence.) 
"  This  might  have  long  continued,  but  for  the  decay  of 
Italian  letters  consequent  upon  the  triumph  of  foreign 
oppression  and  spiritual  despotism  throughout  the 
peninsula.  France  stepped  into  the  vacant  place.  .  .  . 
Ere  long  French  ideas  of  style  had  pervaded  Europe, 
and  approximation  to  French  modes  was  the  inevitable 
qualification  for  the  great  mission  of  human  enlighten- 
ment which  was  to  devolve  upon  Britain  in  the 
succeeding  century."  ^  Thus  "  the  dominant  foreign 
influence  on  our  literature,  through  the  great  part  of 
the  eighteenth  century,  was  certainly  French.  By  this 
declaration  is  not  at  all  meant  that  we  did  nothing  but 
ape  and  imitate  the  French  classics,  though  they 
were  translated  or  in  some  way  reproduced  often 
enough.  What  is  meant  is  that  the  direction  and  tone 
of  our  literature  were  to  a  large  extent  imparted  by 
France,  then,  and  just  before  then,  at  the  height  of  its 
literary  glory.  Pope's  work  is  thoroughly  his  own, 
and  not  to  be  confounded  with  that  of  anybody  else, 
at  home  or  abroad  ;  but  in  many  respects  that  work 
would  have  been  different  had  not  Boileau,  for  instance, 
preceded  him.  And  so  elsewhere  we  see  deeply 
impressed  the  influence  of  Racine,  Voltaire,  Rousseau."^ 
Here,  in  the  ascendency  of  this  French  influence,  we 
put  our  finger,  as  any  historian  of  literature  will  tell  us, 
upon  one  of  the  principal  causes  of  the  extraordinary 
transformation  which  English  literature  then  under- 
went in  matter,  spirit,  and  style ;  and  the  English 
literature  of  the  later  seventeenth  and  earlier  eight- 
eenth centuries  cannot  therefore  be  understood  with- 

^  Garnett,  The  Agg  of  Brj/dgn,  p.  3. 

^1.  W.  Hales,  Folia  Litteraria,  pp.  294,  295. 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITEEATURE  6i 

out  constant  reference  to  the  literature  of  France. 
But  by  the  time  we  reach  Voltaire  and  Rousseau  (here 
classed  as  a  French  writer),  we  become  aware  of  a  fact 
not  touched  upon  in  the  above  quotation,  but  of  very 
great  significance  for  students  of  both  French  and 
English  literatures — that  another  current  of  influence 
was  now  flowing  fast  and  strong  in  a  reverse  direction, 
or  from  England  into  France.  A  period  of  pronounced 
Anglomania  had  begun,  and  the  French  mind  was  now 
busy  absorbing  English  ideas  and  speculations  on 
many  subjects — on  religion,  philosophy,  society, 
politics,  and  even  the  forms  of  literature.  Voltaire's 
three  years  of  exile  in  England  are  rightly  described 
by  Condorcet  as  of  European  importance,  because  it 
was  by  this  direct  contact  with  English  life  and  thought 
that  his  spirit  was  first  awakened  to  a  sense  of 
his  mission  as  the  apostle  of  intellectual  liberty. 
"  Voltairism  may  be  said  to  have  begun  from  the 
flight  of  its  founder  from  Paris  to  London.  This  .  .  . 
was  the  decisive  hegira,  from  which  the  philosophy  of 
destruction  in  a  formal  shape  may  be  held  seriously  to 
date."  ^  Rousseau  and  Diderot  alike  derived  much  of 
their  philosophy  from  thinkers  like  Locke,  and  of  their 
literary  inspiration  from  such  men  as  Richardson  and 
Lillo,  and  from  the  whole  domestic  movement  in 
English  letters  which  these  represented.  And  among 
the  other  great  French  writers  of  the  period 
preceding  the  Revolution  hardly  one  could  be  named 
whose  work  does  not  exhibit  the  most  unmistakable 
evidence  of  his  profound  indebtedness  to  England. 
English  literature  was,  in  fact,  as  Hettner  has  said,^  the 

^John  Morley,   Voltaire,  p.  44. 

'^  Literaturgeschichte  des  achtzehrtten  Jahrhtinderts,  p.  9. 


62  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

real  starting-point  of  the  whole  European  movement 
of  enlightenment  in  the  eighteenth  century  and  of  the 
literature  to  which  this  movement  gave  birth.  It  was 
through  their  French  interpreters,  indeed,  that  English 
ideas  became  European  and  practically  effective.^  But 
if  we  are  to  follow  the  history  of  the  revolutionary  move- 
ment at  large  on  the  intellectual  side,  and  of  the  rise  and 
spread  of  revolutionary  ideas  and  of  the  revolutionary 
spirit  in  literature,  it  is  with  England  and  English 
writers  that  we  have  to  begin.  Thus  in  the  literatures 
of  France  and  England  from  the  middle  of  the  seven- 
teenth century  to  the  close  of  the  eighteenth,  we  shall 
find  a  continual  revelation  of  the  influence  exerted,  now 
on  this  side  and  now  on  that,  by  one  national  genius 
upon  another ;  and  thus,  for  the  full  comprehension  of 
either  French  or  English  literature  during  this  period, 
it  is  evident  that  they  must  be  studied  together. 

Equally  interesting  will  be  the  inquiry  into  the 
Another  hterary  relations  of  England  and  Germany 
niustra-  in  the  second  half  of  the  eighteenth  century, 
Literary  particularly  in  respect  of  their  reciprocal  in- 
Reiations  fluences  in  the  development  of  Romanticism, 
land  and  Here,  in  the  first  place,  we  shall  have  to  note 
Germany,  that,  as  men  like  Bodmer  and  Lessing  will 
show  us,  English  literature  was  a  main  power  in  the 
emancipation  of  Germany  from  the  long  tyranny  of 

^  **  The  literature  of  France  has  been  to  England  what  Aaron  was  to 
Moses,  the  expositor  of  great  truths,  which  would  else  have  perished  for 
want  of  a  voice  to  utter  them  with  distinctness.  .  .  .  The  great  discoveries 
in  physics,  in  metaphysics,  in  political  science,  are  ours.  But  scarcely  any 
foreign  nation  except  France  has  received  them  from  us  by  direct  com- 
munication. Isolated  in  our  situation,  isolated  by  our  manners,  we  found 
truth,  but  we  did  not  impart  it.  France  has  been  the  interpreter  between 
England  and  mankind.  In  the  time  of  Walpole,  this  process  of  interpre- 
tation was  in  full  activity." — Macaulay,  Essay  on  Walpole. 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITEEATURE  63 

French  modes  and  of  pseudo-classicism,  and  thus  in 
turning  German  genius  inward  upon  itself  and  in 
preparing  the  way  for  the  rise  of  a  truly  national 
literature.  Then  we  enter  upon  a  period  of  rapidly 
developing  Romanticism,  during  which  the  wild  en- 
thusiasm of  "  young  Germany "  for  those  English 
writers  who  had  already  caught  up  and  expressed  the 
romantic  spirit  is  everywhere  felt  as  a  predominant 
force.  I  am  not  now  writing  the  history  of  English 
influence  upon  German  literature  at  this  time,  but  am 
simply  trying  to  exhibit  the  interest  of  this  history  ; 
and  it  will  therefore  be  quite  enough  for  my  pur- 
pose if  I  point  out  how  Percy's  Reliques  of  Ancient 
English  Poetry  stimulated  the  study  of  folk- poetry  and 
the  preference  for  the  natural  to  the  artificial  in  verse, 
and  how,  inspired  by  them,  Biirger  wrote  his  ballads 
and  Herder  produced  his  Stimmen  der  Volker^  and 
formulated  his  theory  of  the  essential  superiority  of 
"  popular  "  poetry  to  all  the  productions  of  refinement 
and  art ;  how  Macpherson's  Ossian  fired  the  imagina- 
tion with  grandiose  visions  of  a  past  world  which  had 
known  nothing  of  the  petty  conventions  and  restraints 
of  "  civilisation,"  and  thus  gave  a  fresh  impetus  to 
the  movement  for  a  "  return  to  nature "  initiated  by 
Rousseau ;  how  Shakespeare  became  the  god  of  the 
idolatry  of  those  who  had  cast  down  the  graven 
images  of  the  artificial  drama,  was  proclaimed  by 
Lessing  as  a  new  standard  of  dramatic  art,  and  taken 
by  Goethe  and  Schiller  as  model  and  master.  These 
few  illustrations  will  suffice  to  exemplify  the  extra- 
ordinary sway  of  English  literature  in  the  earlier 
stages  of  developing  German  Romanticism.  But  ere 
long  the  counter-current  set  in,  and  Germany  began 


64  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

to  return  with  interest  what  she  had  borrowed  from 
England.  "  Whatever  Germany  owed  to  us  at  that 
time  of  its  so  splendid  regeneration,"  writes  Prof. 
Hales,  "  it  repaid  us,  and  still  repays  us,  good  measure, 
pressed  down  and  shaken  together,  and  running  over  " ; 
and  a  part  reason  for  this  is  indicated  in  the  fact  that 
"  the  German  impulse  harmonised  with  impulses  that 
were  already  permeating  England,  and  to  these  it  gave 
a  stronger  force  and  more  successful  action."  ^  Much 
of  the  influence  which  the  great  English  romantic 
writers  derived  directly  from  their  English  predecessors 
was  thus  combined  with  the  influences  which  came 
originally  from  the  same  sources,  but  were  now 
transmitted  to  them  by  those  Germans  who  had  first 
been  inspired  by  English  masters  ;  as  in  the  case  of 
Scott,  whose  poetic  genius  was  aroused  both  by  Percy's 
Reliques  and  by  the  ballads  which  Biirger  had  written 
under  the  impulse  of  Percy,  and  whose  novels  are  in 
part  to  be  traced  to  Goethe's  Goetz  von  Berlichingen^ 
itself  an  offspring  of  Shakespearean  enthusiasm.  Hence 
if  English  genius  was  an  important  factor  in  the 
development  of  romantic  German  literature,  German 
genius  in  its  turn  was  an  important  factor  in  the 
development  of  romantic  English  literature  ;  and  to 
trace  out  the  interplay  of  influences,  to  estimate  the 
value  of  the  lendings  and  the  borrowings  between  the 
two  peoples,  would  evidently  prove  a  line  of  inquiry 
rich  in  interest  and  fruitful  of  results. 

Less  important  than  the  influence  of  one  nation's 
genius  upon  another,  but  still  important,  is  that  which 
from  time  to  time  is  exerted  on  the  themes,  temper, 
and  fashions  of  literature  by  the  genius  of  some  past 

^  Folia  Litteraria^  p.  296. 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATUKE  65 

age.  This  has  already  been  exemplified  by  what  has 
been  said  about  the  influence  of  pagan  antiquity,  which 
might  indeed  have  been  treated  under  the  ^j^^ 
present  head.  Apart  from  this,  the  most  Mediasvai 
interesting  illustration  of  the  phenomenon  in  ^®^^*^- 
question  is  undoubtedly  the  imaginative  revival  of  the 
"  romantic  "  past,  which  began,  roughly  speaking,  about 
the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century,  and  the  power  of 
which,  though  it  reached  its  culmination  and  partly 
spent  itself  in  the  great  romantic  outburst  of  the  first 
three  decades  of  the  nineteenth  century,  has  still  been 
conspicuous  in  nearly  all  European  literatures  ever 
since.  For  something  like  a  hundred  and  fifty  years, 
and  especially  during  what  is  often  termed  the 
"  Augustan "  period  of  literature,  general  critical 
taste  in  England,  largely  moulded,  as  we  have  said, 
on  the  principles  of  the  dominant  French  or  pseudo- 
classic  school,  was  in  revolt  against  the  whole  spirit 
and  method  of  pre-Restoration  literature.  So  little 
affinity  was  there  between  the  temper  and  ideals  of 
the  early  eighteenth  century  and  those  of  the  Eliza- 
bethan epoch  or  of  the  Middle  Ages  that  men  for  the 
most  part  turned  away  contemptuously  from  Chaucer 
and  Spenser,  treated  Shakespeare  as  a  rude  genius 
totally  wanting  in  refinement  and  art,  and  found  in 
the  word  "gothic,"  which  they  used  as  synonymous 
with  barbarous,  a  term  of  sweeping  condemnation  for 
whatever  failed  to  satisfy  the  requirements  of  their  new 
creed.  The  change  from  the  temper  thus  revealed 
to  that  of  the  romantic  period,  with  its  enthusiastic 
admiration  for  precisely  those  gothic  qualities  which 
had  formerly  been  spurned  or  ridiculed,  was  not,  as  I 
have  already  insisted,  a  change  only  in  literary  taste ; 


66  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

it  was  correlated,  as  part  cause  and  part  effect,  with 
various  broad  and  comprehensive  movements  in  life  at 
large  and  with  a  general  change  in  men's  attitude  to 
things.  But  in  literature  itself  it  was  marked,  among 
other  ways,  by  a  number  of  revivals — the  revival  of 
Spenser,  the  revival  of  Shakespeare,  the  revival  of  the 
old  ballads — and  by  a  return  of  the  imagination  to 
the  Middle  Ages  with  their  romance,  their  chivalrous 
idealism,  their  supernaturalism.  Classic  antiquity  had 
been  reborn  in  the  fifteenth  century  ;  the  Middle  Ages 
were  reborn  in  the  eighteenth.  And  so  large  a  place 
does  this  mediaeval  or  gothic  Renaissance  fill  in  the 
history  of  Romanticism  from  the  time  of  Walpole, 
Chatterton,  and  Percy  to  that  of  Coleridge  and  Scott, 
and  onward  again  to  Ruskin,  Rossetti,  the  pre- 
Raphaelites,  and  William  Morris,  that  historians  of 
literature  and  art  often  confound  the  two,  and  treat 
mediaevalism  not  only  as  a  large  feature  of  Romanticism, 
but  even  as  entirely  synonymous  and  co-extensive  with 
it.  This  is  indeed  a  mistake  ;  but  the  fact  that  it  is 
so  frequently  and  so  naturally  made  serves  to  bring 
out  the  only  points  with  which  we  are  now  concerned 
— the  influence  of  the  genius  of  the  Middle  Ages  as 
expressed  in  their  poetry,  art,  and  religion,  in  some  of 
the  most  important  developments  of  modern  literature, 
and  the  wide  interest  which  this  subject  therefore 
possesses  as  a  special  theme  for  study. 

V 

Yet  one  other  aspect  of  the  historical  study  of 
literature  may  be  indicated — the  historical  study  of 
style.  This  is,  perhaps,  too  technical  a  line  of  inquiry 
to   appear  at   the   outset  very  attractive  to  any   but 


J 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATUEE  67 

the  specialist,  but  the   general   student  may  still   be 

encouraged  to  give  it  some  attention,  since 

The  His- 
he  will  soon  find  that  it  has  its  broader  as  well    toricai 

as  its  more  purely  technical  interest.     On  the    study  of 

style, 
principle  already  laid  down  that  style,  properly 

conceived,  is  not  an  accidental  or  arbitrary  feature  of 
literature,  but  an  organic  product  of  vital  forces,  some 
consideration  of  the  larger  movements  of  style  from 
age  to  age,  and  of  their  significance,  of  the  causes, 
literary  and  extra-literary,  which  have  combined  to 
bring  them  about,  and  of  their  connection  with 
corresponding  changes  in  the  inner  life  of  literature, 
will  come  to  constitute  an  almost  necessary  part  of 
our  study  of  the  literature  of  any  given  period. 
Whatever  affects  the  inner  life  of  literature  will  both 
directly  and  indirectly  affect  at  the  same  time  that 
outer  organism  which  the  inner  life  fashions  for  its 
manifestation.  Thus,  in  the  way  in  which  he  expresses 
himself  no  less  than  in  what  he  has  to  express,  every 
individual  author  will  betray  something  of  his  affilia- 
tions with  his  age  ;  and  the  form  of  his  work,  like  the 
substance  and  tone  of  it,  will,  however  personal  to 
himself,  find  its  place  in  the  history  of  those  com- 
prehensive movements  which,  diversely  as  they  may 
be  represented  in  the  writings  of  different  men,  are 
movements  nevertheless  in  which  they  are  all  involved. 
In  what  has  been  said  about  style  as  an  index  of 
personality  all  this  has  indeed  been  implied.  To 
insist  that  Carlyle  could  never  have  written  as  he  did 
had  he  been  born  into  the  age  of  Addison,  that  his 
prose  is  of  the  "  romantic  "  not  of  the  "  classic  "  kind, 
that  it  everywhere  bears  the  unmistakable  impress  of 
those  German   influences  of  which  we  have  recently 


68  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

spoken,  is  to  indulge  in  mere  commonplaces  of 
criticism.  But  if  these  are  facts  too  familiar  to  need 
elaborate  restatement,  their  meaning  must  not  be 
obscured  by  their  familiarity.  They  show  us  that, 
individual  as  it  is  to  the  point  of  extravagance  and 
mannerism,  Carlyle's  style  does  not  wholly  defy 
classification  or  stand  outside  the  lines  of  historic 
development,  but  that,  on  the  contrary,  it  was  in  part 
a  product  of  the  forces  of  his  time  and  place  and  has 
to  be  considered  therefore  in  its  relations  with  them. 
In  order  to  bring  out  the  larger  interest  of  the 
historic  study  of  style  I  will  suggest  an 
ticm*^the  illustration  which,  I  think,  should  appeal 
Growth  even  to  students  who  may  care  little  for 
PrS?  ^  details  of  mere  technique.  It  is  usual,  as  a 
glance  at  any  text-book  will  tell  us,  to  take 
the  Restoration  as  the  starting-point  of  an  entirely 
new  order  of  things  in  the  formal  evolution  of  our 
prose  literature.  "  The  Restoration,"  as  Matthew 
Arnold  puts  it,  "  marks  the  real  moment  of  birth  of 
our  modern  English  prose.  It  is  by  its  organism — 
an  organism  opposed  to  length  and  involvement,  and 
enabling  us  to  be  clear,  plain,  and  short — that  English 
prose  after  the  Restoration  breaks  with  the  style  of 
the  times  preceding  it,  finds  the  true  law  of  prose, 
and  becomes  modern  ;  becomes,  in  spite  of  superficial 
differences,  the  style  of  our  own  day."  That  this 
statement,  while  in  certain  respects  a  little  too 
emphatic  and  uncompromising,  is  still  substantially 
correct,  any  reader  can  readily  convince  himself  by 
comparing  a  page  out  of  Hooker,  or  Clarendon,  or 
Milton's  Areopagitica^  with  a  page  out  of  Dryden,  or 
Defoe,  or  Addison.     The  writing  of  the  men  of  the 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  69 

latter  group  will  strike  him  at  once  as  characteristically 
modern ;  in  structural  principles,  theirs  is  the  kind 
of  prose  we  still  use  ;  occasional  archaisms  will  not 
prevent  us  from  recognising  that  our  own  style  stands 
in  the  direct  line  of  descent  from  it.  The  prose  of  the 
earlier  writers  mentioned,  on  the  other  hand,  is,  it 
will  be  equally  obvious,  not  our  prose  at  all  ;  often 
splendid  in  diction  and  various  in  its  harmonies,  it  is 
for  our  taste  altogether  too  cumbrous,  unwieldy,  and 
involved ;  it  is  manifestly  built  upon  structural 
principles  radically  different  from  those  which  form 
the  basis  of  our  own  prose  writing.  Now,  how  are 
we  to  interpret  this  transformation  of  prose  style 
in  the  period  of  its  great  metamorphosis?  how 
explain  the  substitution  of  the  new  prose  which 
was  rapidly  taking  shape  in  the  closing  decades  of  the 
seventeenth  century  for  the  old  prose  which  had 
hitherto  remained  in  almost  undisputed  possession  of 
the  field  ?  It  seems  a  much  easier  and  more  natural 
thing  to  write  in  the  style  of  Addison  than  in  the 
style  of  Milton,  because  Addison's  prose  is  the 
artistic  development  of  real  speech,  while  Milton's  is 
scarcely  nearer  to  real  speech  than  is  his  blank  verse, 
and  is  in  fact  at  its  best  when  in  his  own  phrase  it 
"  soars  a  little  "  into  the  higher  regions  of  eloquence 
and  imagination.  Why  was  it  that  the  secret  of 
naturalness  and  simplicity  had  thus  far  eluded  our 
greatest  masters  ?  and  why  did  it  become  an  open 
secret,  free  to  even  the  smallest  men,  in  the  generation 
immediately  following  Milton's  death  ?  Well,  the 
history  of  the  formation  and  establishment  of  the  new 
prose  after  the  Restoration  will,  as  we  shall  soon  dis- 
cover, carry  us  far  afield    into   the  consideration    of 


70  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

many  co-operating  causes,  some  of  them  at  first  sight 
too  remote  from  the  question  in  hand  to  have  had  any 
bearings  upon  it ;  among  which  may  be  mentioned,  by 
way  of  illustration : — the  change  from  the  poetic  to 
the  critical  temper  which  was  one  of  the  most  note- 
worthy characteristics  of  the  time  ;  the  spread  of  the 
spirit  of  commonsense,  of  the  love  of  definiteness  and 
perspicacity,  and  of  the  hatred  of  the  pedantic  and 
obscure  ;  the  growth  of  science  which  greatly  aided 
the  general  movement  towards  precision  and  lucidity  ;  ^ 
the  eminently  practical  purposes  to  which  prose  was 
now  largely  turned  as  an  instrument  of  argument, 
persuasion,  satire,  in  an  age  of  unceasing  political  and 
religious  controversy  ;  the  rise  of  a  larger  and  more 
miscellaneous  public  to  be  addressed,  and  of  the 
resulting  influence  of  the  general  reader,  of  women, 
of  the  coffee-house  and  the  drawing-room  ;  the  desire 
for  the  de-specialisation  and  popularisation  of  know- 
ledge ;  the  demand  which  thus  grew  up  for  that  kind 
of  writing  which  could  be  easily  produced  to  meet 
the  interests  of  the  hour  and  as  easily  understood  and 
enjoyed  by  those  for  whom  it  was  intended  ;  the  conse- 
quent output  of  a  mass  of  pamphlets  and  of  periodical 
literature  in  which  the  element  of  journalism  and 
the  pen  of  the  ready  writer  are  everywhere  apparent ; 

^  Sprat  pointed  out  how  the  Royal  Society  (incorporated  by  charter 
from  Charles  II.  in  1662)  had  directly  affected  English  style  by  exacting 
"from  all  their  members  a  close,  naked,  natural  way  of  speaking  ;  positive 
expressions;  clear  senses;  a  native  easiness;  bringing  all  things  as 
near  the  mathematical  plainness  as  they  can"  {History  of  the  Royal 
Society).  That,  under  the  influence  of  the  critical  spirit  of  the  time,  much 
attention  was  now  given  to  details  of  style  is  well  illustrated  by  the 
ormation  of  a  Committee,  of  which  Dryden,  Cowley,  Sprat,  and  Waller 
were  members,  "  to  settle  the  language  after  the  fashion  of  the  French 
Academy." 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  71 

and — a  point  already  noted — the  influence  of  France, 
whose  prose  furnished  to  those  who  were  thus  pre- 
pared to  appreciate  its  virtues  and  receive  its  guidance, 
an  established  model  of  just  the  qualities  they  were 
now  most  anxious  to  seek — ease,  lucidity,  sobriety, 
grace.^  It  is  manifest,  therefore,  that  the  great  changes 
which  our  prose  underwent  during  the  ages  of  Dryden 
and  Addison,  and  which  had  their  parallels  in  analogous 
changes  in  the  texture  and  form  of  verse,  are  to  be 
understood  only  when  they  are  studied  in  their  con- 
nection with  contemporary  changes  in  the  inner  life  of 
literature  and  with  the  whole  complex  of  forces  by 
which  these  were  brought  about.  And  similarly,  if, 
passing  from  the  early  eighteenth  to  the  early  nine- 
teenth century,  we  observe  that  a  strong  reaction  had 
now  set  in  against  the  limitations  of  the  classic 
tradition  in  style — that  in  the  hands  of  men  like 
Wilson  and  De  Quincey,  and  later,  Carlyle  and  Rus- 
kin,  prose  sought  a  freer  movement,  fuller  harmo- 
nies, greater  richness,  warmth,  and  colour  ;  then  the 

^  Schlosser  notes  the  importance  of  the  fact  that  the  writers  of  the  early 
eighteenth  century  "began  to  work  for  a  very  different  public  from  that 
of  their  predecessors.  They  attempted  to  make  easy,  pleasant,  and 
accessible  all  that  had  previously  been  regarded  as  serious,  difficult,  and 
unattainable  "  {^History  of  the  Eighteenth  Century,  I.  26).  Addison,  it 
will  be  remembered,  was  *'  ambitious  to  have  it  said  of"  him  **  that  he 
had  brought  philosophy  out  of  closets  and  libraries,  schools  and  colleges, 
to  dwell  in  clubs  and  assemblies,  at  tea-tables  and  coffee-houses" 
{Spectator f  No.  10).  The  hatred  of  narrow  specialism — of  pedantry,  as 
it  was  currently  called — which  pervades  much  of  the  literature  of  the  time, 
is  directly  expressed  in  the  Memoirs  of  Martinus  Scribierus,  in  parts  of 
Gulliver^  s  Travels,  and  in  many  passages  in  The  D  unci  ad ;  the  other  side 
of  it  is  illustrated  in  such  attempts  at  the  popular  treatment  of  things 
hitherto  handled  scholastically  as  will  be  found  in  Pope's  Essay  on 
Criticism^  Essay  on  Man,  and  "drawing-room"  version  of  Homer. 
The  general  effect  of  all  this  on  prose  style  will  be  evident. 


72  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

development  of  this  "  romantic  "  prose  is  once  more 
to  be  considered  in  relation  with  the  evolution  of 
literature  in  general — that  is,  with  the  romantic  move- 
ment in  all  its  varied  phases,  and  with  the  many- 
streams  of  influence  by  which  this  was  fed. 

Much,  of  course,  might  be  added  on  this  point. 
But  enough  has,  I  think,  been  said  to  make  good  my 
contention  that  the  historic  study  of  style,  thus  broadly 
conceived,  like  the  personal  study  of  it,  has  plenty  to 
interest  the  reader  for  whom  the  ordinary  study  of 
rhetoric  would  be  barren  of  attraction. 

VI 

In  the  foregoing  pages  I  have  tried  to  indicate 
some  of  the  main  lines  of  literary  study,  taking  what 
seems  to  me  the  natural  course,  by  beginning  with  the 
primary  interest  of  literature,  which  is  the  personal 
interest,  and  working  from  that  into  the  wider  fields 
of  social  and  historical  inquiry.  But  though  we  have 
followed  our  subject  as  it  branches  out  in  various 
directions,  our  business  has  thus  far  been  expressly 
limited  to  the  content  and  interpretative  power  of 
literature — to  the  thought  and  feeling  embodied  in  it, 
and  to  its  many-sided  relationship  with  life ;  and  even 
when  we  have  paused  to  deal  with  questions  of  style, 
it  has  been  with  style  in  its  general  and  not  in  its 
technical  aspects.  It  remains  for  us  now  to  touch 
upon  the  interest  which  literature  possesses  when 
approached  from  an  entirely  different  point  of  view. 

One  essential  characteristic  of  any  piece  of 
literature  is,  as  we  said  at  the  outset,  that,  whatever 
its  theme,  it  yields  aesthetic  pleasure  by  the  manner 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  73 

in  which  such  theme  is  handled.  Beyond  its  intel- 
lectual and  emotional  content,  therefore,  and  ^j^^  study 
beyond  its  fundamental  quality  of  life,  it  of  Literary 
appeals  to  us  by  reason  of  its  form.  This  ^°^  ^^®* 
means  that  literature  is  a  fine  art,  and  that,  like  all  fine 
arts,  it  has  its  own  laws  and  conditions  of  workmanship. 
And  as  these  laws  and  conditions,  like  the  laws  and 
conditions  of  all  arts,  may  be  analysed  and  formulated, 
one  other  phase  of  literary  study  is  obviously  the  study 
of  literary  technique. 

It  is  of  course  no  part  of  our  purpose  here  to  at- 
tempt the  task  of  analysis  and  formulation.  All  that 
falls  within  the  proper  limits  of  our  plan  is  to  suggest 
some  lines  of  investigation  in  this  new  and  vast  region 
of  inquiry. 

Our  point  of  departure  is  the  broad  fact  that  what- 
ever connects  itself  with  workmanship — with  method 
and  treatment,  form  and  style — will  now,  in  the 
technical  study  of  literature,  become  of  interest  for  its 
own  sake  ;  as  all  such  details  become  of  interest  for 
their  own  sakes  in  the  study  of  other  arts. 

If,    for    example,    we    are    studying   the    plays    of 
Shakespeare,   or  Spenser's  Faery  Queene^  or  u^jgrature 
Tennyson's  Idylls  of  the  King,  or  a  novel  of  in  the 
Dickens  or  Thackeray,  we   may  for  a  long  ^' 

while  be  quite  contented  to  take  these  works  as  they 
stand,  and  to  enjoy  them  for  their  human  qualities, 
their  power,  beauty,  and  meaning.  But  there  will 
presently  come  a  time  when  we  shall  feel  prompted  to 
follow  the  dramatist,  or  the  poet,  or  the  novelist  into 
his  workshop,  and  to  study  his  work  in  the  making — 
to  watch  the  processes  and  examine  the  methods  by 
which  the  results  we  have  been  enjoying  in  the  com- 


74  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

pleted  piece  of  art  were  achieved.  Every  stage  in  the 
history  of  play,  poem,  or  novel,  from  raw  material  to 
finished  product,  will  now  come  in  for  scrutiny;  we 
shall  observe  the  conditions  under  which  the  given 
work  was  wrought ;  the  technical  difficulties  which  the 
artist  had  to  encounter  ;  the  way  in  which  these 
difficulties  were  met  and  the  extent  to  which  they  were 
overcome  ;  the  effects  which  he  designed  to  obtain  and 
the  measure  of  his  success  in  obtaining  them  ;  and 
from  the  consideration  of  these  and  other  such  points 
we  shall  pass  naturally  to  a  critical  judgment  upon  the 
qualities  of  his  work  as  a  piece  of  literature — upon  its 
merits  and  defects,  its  power  and  limitations,  when  re- 
garded simply  as  drama,  or  poem,  or  novel.  We  shall 
thus  be  led  further  to  inquire  into  the  principles  of  the 
arts  of  drama,  poetry,  and  prose  fiction,  and  to  an  in- 
vestigation of  the  sources,  significance,  and  value  of 
the  standards  by  which  these  arts  have  been  tried. 

Many  things   moreover  in  any  piece  of  literature 
which    to    the   ordinary    -eader   may   seem    of  quite 

secondary  importance  or  which  he  may  even 
s?udy  of  igriore  altogether,  will  now  be  found  to  press 
Genealogy  for  attention.  Among  the  first  questions, 
cedente!^     for  instance,  that  will  be  likely  to  arise  in 

connection  with  any  work  we  may  take  up 
for  technical  study  is  that  of  its  literary  genealogy 
and  antecedents.  It  is  open  to  every  one  to  enjoy  to 
the  full  the  earlier  plays  of  Shakespeare  without 
troubling  himself  to  consider  the  condition  of  the 
stage  at  the  time  they  were  produced  or  the  depend- 
ence of  their  author  upon  the  guidance  of  those  who 
had  brought  the  English  drama  to  the  point  of 
development  which  it  had  reached  at  the  beginning 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  75 

of  his  career.  But  Shakespeare's  plays  are  not 
isolated  phenomena,  nor  was  Shakespeare  himself  (as, 
owing  to  our  habit  of  detaching  him  from  his 
surroundings,  we  are  too  apt  to  assume)  a  great 
initiator  in  dramatic  forms  and  methods.  He  began 
to  write  under  the  powerful  influence  of  Lyly  in 
comedy  and  of  Marlowe  in  both  tragedy  and  chronicle- 
drama  ;  and  the  study  of  his  earlier  work  thus 
necessarily  involves  an  inquiry  into  the  extent  of  his 
indebtedness  to  these  two  writers  who,  however  much 
he  may  have  bettered  their  instruction,  may  without 
exaggeration  be  described  as  his  masters  in  the  art  of 
dramatic  composition.  Again,  if  we  are  taking  up 
the  study  of  Paradise  Lost^  we  may  begin  by  reading 
it  as  the  expression  of  Milton's  personality  and 
philosophy  of  life,  and,  viewed  historically,  as  the 
poetic  masterpiece  of  English  puritanism.  Having  so 
read  it,  we  may  next  go  on  to  consider  its  general 
qualities  as  a  poem — its  imaginative  power,  descriptive 
power,  dramatic  power,  its  merits  and  defects  as  a 
narrative,  the  splendour  and  range  of  its  imagery,  the 
majesty,  beauty,  and  variety  of  its  versification  ;  and 
so  on.  But  instead  of  finding  that  these  matters  ex- 
haust its  critical  interest,  we  shall  rather  discover, 
sooner  or  later,  that  they  lead  us  on  to  a  different 
class  of  questions.  Milton's  poem  belongs  in  plan 
and  structure  to  a  particular  and  well-defined  kind  of 
poetry — to  the  kind  which  we  call  "  epic  "  poetry  ;  it 
was  written  by  a  man  of  enormous  scholarship  who 
sought  to  make  his  own  work  accord  with  the  technical 
principles  of  the  great  epics  of  classical  antiquity,  and 
who  not  only  adopted  these  as  his  models,  but  also 
drew    continually    upon    them    for    various    details — 


76  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

incidents,  metaphors,  similes,  turns  of  speech.  Para- 
dise Lost  has  therefore  to  be  studied  as  an  example 
of  the  epic ;  its  plan  and  composition  have  to  be 
examined  from  the  standpoint  of  epic  art ;  it  has  in 
particular  to  be  compared  with  its  acknowledged 
models.  Milton's  indebtedness  to  literature  in  a 
wider  sense  has  also  to  be  considered — to  the  Bible, 
the  Greek  dramatists,  Ariosto,  Tasso,  Spenser ;  and 
while  his  countless  borrowings  are  duly  noted,  special 
attention  will  have  to  be  paid  to  the  use  to  which 
these  borrowings  are  put  by  "  the  greatest  of 
plagiarists,"  and  to  the  skill  with  which  he  adapts 
them  and  so  makes  them  his  own.  In  much  the 
same  way  we  may  study  with  almost  equal  advantage 
the  genealogy  and  literary  antecedents  of  such  poems 
as  The  Faery  Queene  and  the  Idylls  of  the  King, 

Of  this  more  technical  kind  of  literary  inquiry,  the 
aspects  and  bearings  of  which  are  manifestly  too 
numerous  and  varied  for  anything  like  exhaustive 
treatment  in  so  brief  a  survey  as  ours,  one  further 
illustration  may  be  taken  from  the  plays  of 
Shakespeare. 

If  we  are  dealing  with  King  John,  Macbeth,  Julius 
Ccesar,  Othello,  As  You  Like  It,  our  first  business  will 
of  course  be  with  these  dramas  themselves  and  as  they 
stand — with  the  finished  products  of  the  master's 
genius  and  skill ;  and  if  we  choose,  we  may  continue 
to  regard  them  in  their  completed  state  only,  and  to 
set  at  nought  all  questions  which  would  carry  us 
beyond  the  finished  product  into  considerations  of 
genesis,  external  history,  matter,  technique.  But  when 
we  have  once  become  deeply  interested  in  Shakespeare 
and  his  art,  we  shall  certainly  find  ourselves  tempted 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  77 

to  give  such  questions  at  least  a  share  of  our  attention. 
Even  in  the  smallest  details  of  his  method — in  such 
recondite  problems,  for  example,  as  those  of  his 
management  of  the  element  of  dramatic  time,  and 
the  significance  of  the  alternations  of  verse  and  prose 
in  the  dialogue  of  most  of  his  plays — we  shall  discover 
something  which  will  repay  exploration  ;  while  a 
specially  attractive  and  fertile  field  of  study  will  be 
opened  up  in  the  comparison  of  the  dramas  as  we 
have  them  with  the  raw  material  out  of  which  they 
were  made.  Shakespeare,  as  every  one  knows,  rarely 
troubled  himself  to  devise  a  plot  outright,  but 
commonly  helped  himself  freely  to  such  themes 
and  incidents,  wherever  found,  as  he  felt  he  could  turn 
to  good  service.  Thus  King  John  is  a  rifacimento  of 
an  older  play,  Macbeth  is  based  on  the  narrative  of 
Holinshed's  Chronicles^  Julius  Ccesar  on  Plutarch's 
lives  of  Brutus,  Caesar,  and  Antony,  Othello  on  an 
Italian  novella,  As  You  Like  It  on  a  prose  romance. 
As  in  each  of  these  cases  Shakespeare  worked  in  the 
main  on  themes  and  characters  which  he  had  taken 
over  from  others,  the  question  of  his  manipulation  of 
his  borrowed  subjects  is  one  which  it  is  scarcely 
possible  to  avoid.  Here  and  there  a  reader  may 
perhaps  be  inclined  to  object  that  this  question  has 
really  nothing  to  do  with  the  study  of  Shakespeare 
himself,  and  that  our  real  business  should  be  with  the 
plays,  with  what  we  have  termed  the  finished  products, 
and  not  with  the  details  of  their  composition.  But  to 
this  objection  a  twofold  answer  may  be  returned. 
In  the  first  place,  the  study  of  Shakespeare's  use  of 
his  sources — the  consideration  of  what  he  did  with 
the  stories  he  chose  for  dramatic  treatment,  how  he 


78  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

adapted  them  to  his  own  purposes,  where  he  changed, 
what  he  omitted,  what  he  added — must  be  in  itself 
extremely  interesting  and  suggestive,  for  so  we  may 
get  very  close  indeed  to  the  principles  which  governed 
his  workmanship  and  the  self-imposed  laws  which  he 
obeyed.  And  secondly,  such  a  study  must  of  necessity 
throw  a  flood  of  fresh  light  on  the  plays  themselves 
and  therefore  increase  greatly  our  intelligent  enjoy- 
ment of  them.  To  follow  Shakespeare  in  his  trans- 
formation— often  little  less  than  miraculous — of  the 
rough  material  on  which  he  worked,  to  note  the 
results  of  his  humanising  touch  upon  it,  to  be  led  in 
this  way  to  appreciate  his  psychological  insight  and 
his  technical  skill  ;  all  this  is  not  merely  to  gratify 
our  curiosity  in  regard  to  questions  which  might  just 
as  well  be  left  alone,  and  it  is  certainly  not  to  be  mis- 
led from  the  true  highway  of  literary  study  into 
narrow  bypaths  of  pedantic  investigation.  It  is 
one  of  the  best  of  all  possible  helps  to  the  real  com- 
prehension of  Shakespeare's  greatness,  and  therefore 
one  of  the  best  of  all  possible  ways  to  get  into  vital 
contact  with  the  essential  principles  of  his  art. 

Twice   already   we   have  spoken    of  the  study   of 

style,  dealing  with  its  interest  first  on  the 
Technical  personal  side  and  then  on  the  historical  side, 
study  of      w/^e  have  now  to  add  that  there  is  a  third 

way  in  which  style  may  be  studied  and  to 
which  we  are  brought  round  by  the  view  of  literature 
as  an  art  which  we  are  now  emphasising  —  the 
technical  or  rhetorical  way.  That  this  way  will  have 
much  attraction  for  the  general  student  of  literature 
in  contradistinction  to  the  rhetorical  specialist,  I  do 
not   suggest.     Yet   even    for  the   general   student    it 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  79 

should  not  be  without  its  value.  Experts,  leaving  out 
of  the  discussion  all  question  of  that  purely  personal 
quality  which,  as  we  conceive  it,  is  fundamental,  have 
drawn  up  for  us  various  lists  of  the  elements  which 
should  combine  in  the  making  of  a  good  style. 
There  are  the  intellectual  elements — the  precision 
which  arises  from  the  right  use  of  the  right  words  ; 
the  lucidity  which  results  from  the  proper  disposition 
of  such  proper  words  in  the  formation  of  sentences  ; 
propriety,  or  the  harmony  which  should  exist  between 
the  thing  said  and  the  phrasing  of  it ;  and  so  on. 
There  are  the  emotional  elements  of  force,  energy, 
suggestiveness,  or  the  elements  by  which  a  writer 
conveys  not  only  his  thought  but  his  feeling,  stimulating 
in  his  reader  sentiments  and  passions  akin  to  his  own, 
and  calling  up  vivid  pictures  of  things  he  wishes  his 
reader  to  see  with  him.  There  are  the  aesthetic 
elements  of  music,  grace,  beauty,  charm,  which  make 
a  style  a  pleasure  in  itself  apart  from  the  thought  and 
feeling  of  which  it  may  be  the  vehicle.  This  kind  of 
analysis  might  of  course  be  carried  to  almost  any 
extent,  but  to  pursue  it  further  would  be  to  overpass 
the  line  of  demarcation  which,  wherever  it  is  drawn, 
has  to  be  drawn  somewhere  between  the  study  of 
literature  and  the  study  of  rhetoric.  How  far  in  our 
own  study  of  literature  we  may  find  it  profitable  to 
apply  to  the  style  of  any  great  writer  the  abstract 
standards  which  the  rhetorician  proposes,  is  a  question 
which  must  be  left  to  each  individual  student  to 
decide  for  himself.  But  it  should  be  evident  that  if 
the  rhetorician,  looking  at  style  simply  as  style, 
undertakes  to  analyse  its  elements  and  to  estimate  its 
merits    and    shortcomings    without    reference    to    the 


8o  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

personality  behind  it,  we,  as  students  of  literature,  are 
not  called  upon,  nor  are  we  in  the  least  likely,  to  do 
so.  For  us,  the  intellectual,  emotional  and  aesthetic 
qualities  of  any  man's  writings  will  relate  themselves 
at  bottom  to  all  the  personal  qualities  of  his  genius 
and  character ;  and  thus  the  technical  study  of  his 
style  will  become  an  aid  in  our  more  systematic  study 
of  the  individuality  embodied  in  his  work. 

This     remark     suggests     the     important     general 

principle  that  though  the  study  of  literary 
Literature  technique  is  in  the  hands  of  scholastic  critics 
and  the  too  often  divorced  from  the  study  of  literature 
Literature.  ^^  ^^^  personal  and  historical  aspects,  it  need 

not  and  should  not  be  so  divorced.  If  the 
art  of  literature  may  be  taken  by  itself  as  subject- 
matter  for  analysis  and  discussion,  it  can  also  be  con- 
nected directly  with  the  substance  and  human  meaning 
of  literature,  and  indeed  treated  as  supplementary  to 
these.  In  this  way,  while,  as  we  have  said,  every- 
thing connected  with  workmanship — method,  treat- 
ment, form,  style — may  be  considered  for  the  interest 
they  possess  for  their  own  sakes,  it  is  not  for  their 
own  sakes  only  that  we  shall  be  contented  to  consider 
them.  In  fact,  the  further  we  go  with  our  own 
study  the  more  keenly  we  shall  be  likely  to  feel  that 
any  attempt  to  separate  the  art  of  literature  from  the 
life  of  literature  must,  both  from  the  side  of  the  art 
and  from  the  side  of  the  life,  be  unsatisfactory. 

To  this  consideration  another  of  even  greater 
importance  has  to  be  added.  The  art  of  the  artist  is 
to  hide  the  art,  and  the  business  of  the  critic  is 
to  find  it  again.  But  we  must  be  on  our  guard  lest 
in  our  search  for  the  art  the  true  results  of  the  art 


WAYS  OF  STUDYING  LITERATURE  8i 

may  be  lost  for  us.  Analysis  must  not  be  allowed 
to  outrun  its  proper  purpose  and  to  become 
an  end  in  itself;  if  we  are  right  in  consider-  End  of 
ing  how  a  great  piece  of  literature  has  come  If^J'^*^*^ 
to  be  what  it  is,  it  is  still  with  the  work 
as  it  is  that  we  have  mainly  to  do.  To  stand  before 
a  picture  and  to  forget  its  totality  of  quality  and 
effect  as  a  picture  in  the  interest  which  the  method 
and  technique  of  the  painter  may  arouse,  is  to  confuse 
the  means  of  artistic  study  with  the  end  which  should 
always  be  kept  in  view.  So  it  is  with  the  study  of 
a  piece  of  literary  art ;  for  here  too  the  ultimate 
secret  of  its  power  over  us  must  be  sought  in  our  own 
personal  apprehension,  not  of  the  artist's  methods  in 
the  creation  of  its  life  and  beauty,  but  in  the  life  and 
beauty  themselves.  And  thus  we  come  round  to 
emphasise  once  again  one  of  the  elementary  principles 
with  which  we  started.  Good  reading  is  better  than 
all  scholarship,  and  the  cultivation  of  the  art  of  good 
reading  infinitely  more  important  than  all  the 
acquisitions  of  scholastic  learning.  The  study  of 
literature  in  all  its  phases  and  details  may  be  so 
planned  and  conducted  as  to  render  our  enjoyment 
of  literature  ampler  and  richer.  If  it  does  this,  its 
justification  is  incontestible.  If  it  fails  to  do  this, 
then,  whatever  else  it  accomplishes,  it  misses  its  true 
purpose. 


CHAPTER    III 

THE    STUDY    OF    POETRY 
I 

WERE  we  challenged  to  answer  off-hand  the 
question,  What  is  poetry?  most  of  us 
would  probably  be  inclined  to  evade  it 
with  the  words  which  St  Augustine  once  used  in 
What  is  reference  to  other  matters — "  If  not  asked,  I 
Poetry?  know;  if  you  ask  me,  I  know  not."  A 
certain  instinctive  sense  of  what  constitutes  poetry 
we  all  have  ;  but  to  translate  this  into  exact  language 
seems  difficult,  if  not  impossible.  Nor,  I  imagine, 
should  we  be  likely  to  find  much  practical  help  in 
even  the  most  careful  consideration  of  the  innumerable 
definitions  which  from  time  to  timehave  been  offered 
by  critics  of  poetry  and  by  poets  themselves.  A  few 
of  these  may  be  quoted  by  way  of  illustration. 

Poetry,  says  Johnson,  is  "  metrical  composition  "  ;  ^ 
Some  it    is    "  the     art     of    uniting    pleasure    with 

Definitions,  truth  by  calling  imagination  to  the  help  of 
reason  "  ;  ^  and  its  *'  essence  "  is  "  invention."  ^  "  What 
is  poetry,"  asks  Mill,  "  but  the  thought  and  words  in 
which  emotion  spontaneously  embodies  itself?  "  *     "  By 

1  Dictionary.  "^  Life  of  Milton.  ^  Life  of  Waller. 

*  Thoughts  on  Poetry  and  its   Varieties^  in  Dissertations  and  Discus- 
sions, vol.  i. 
8a 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  83 

poetry,"  says  Macaulay,  "  we  mean  the  art  of  employ- 
ing words  in  such  a  manner  as  to  produce  an  illusion 
on  the  imagination,  the  art  of  doing  by  means  of 
words  what  the  painter  does  by  means  of  colours."^ 
Poetry,  declares  Carlyle,  "  we  will  call  Musical 
Thought!'  2  Poetry,  says  Shelley,  "  in  a  general 
sense  may  be  defined  as  the  expression  of  the  imagina- 
tion ; "  ^  it  is,  says  Hazlitt,  ''  the  language  of  the 
imagination  and  the  passions ; "  *  says  Leigh  Hunt, 
"  the  utterance  of  a  passion  for  truth,  beauty,  and 
power,  embodying  and  illustrating  its  conceptions  by 
imagination  and  fancy,  and  modulating  its  language 
on  the  principle  of  variety  in  unity."  ^  InColeridge's 
view^poetrjLJsthe  antithesis  of  science,  having  for 
its  immpdiatg  nbjVrf;  pleasure,  not  truth  ;  ^  in  Words- 
wortKT'phrase,  it  "  is  the  breath  and  finer  spirit  of  all 
knowledge,"  and  "the  impassioned  expression  which 
is  in  the  countenance  of  all  science."  ^  According  to 
Matthew  Arnold,  it  "  is  simply  the  most  delightful 
and  perfect  form  of  utterance  that  human  words  can 
reach  " ;  ^  it  is  "  nothing  less  than  the  most  perfect 
speech  of  man,  that  in  which  he  comes  nearest  to 
being  able  to  utter  the  truth  "  ;  ^  it  is  "  a  criticism  of 
life  under  the  conditions  fixed  for  such  a  criticism  by 
the  laws  of  poetic  truth  and  poetic  beauty."  ^^  Accord- 
ing to  Edgar  Allan   Poe,  it  is  "  the  rhythmic  creation 

^  Essay  on  Milton.  ^  Heroes  and  Hero-  Worships  Lecture  iii. 

3  Defence  of  Poetry.  ■*  Lectures  on  the  English  Poets j  i. 

^  Imagination  and  Fancy,  i. 

^  Lectures  and  Notes  on    Shakspere    and   other  English   Poets,    and 
Biographia  Literaria,  chap.  xiv. 

"^  Preface  to  second  edition  of  Lyrical  Ballads. 

^  The  French  Play  in  London,  in  Mixed  Essays. 

^  Wordsworth,  in  Essays  in  Criticism,  second  series. 

^^  The  Study  of  Poetry,  in  Essays  in  Criticism,  second  series. 


84  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

of  beauty  "  ;  ^  according  to  Keble,  "  a  vent  for  over- 
charged feeling  or  a  full  imagination."^  It  expresses, 
says  Doyle,  our  "  dissatisfaction  with  what  is  present 
and  close  at  hand."  ^  Ruskin  defines  it  as  ^'  the 
suggestion,  by  the  imagination,  of  noble  grounds  for 
the  noble  emotions  "  ;  ^  Prof.  Courthope,  as  "  the  art  of 
producing  pleasure  by  the  just  expression  of  imagina- 
tive thought  and  feeling  in  metrical  language  "  ;  ^  Mr 
Watts-Dunton,  as  "  the  concrete  and  artistic  expression 
of  the  human  mind  in  emotional  and  rhythmical 
language."^ 

This  list  of  definitions  might  be  extended  through 
many  pages  ;  but  the  above  examples  will  suffice  to 
indicate  the  enormous  difficulties  which  beset  every 
attempt  to  imprison  the  protean  life  of  poetry  in  the 
cast-iron  terms  of  a  logical  formula,  and  the  measure  of 
success  which  has  been  reached.  How  far  they  help  us, 
separately  or  in  combination,  to  answer  the  question, 
what  is  poetry  ?  is  a  matter  which  each  reader  must 
decide  for  himself  Suggestive,  one  and  all,  they 
doubtless  are.  Yet  when  we  look  at  them  critically, 
and  compare  them  with  one  another,  certain  disturbing 
facts  about  them  become  clear.  They  are  almost 
distracting  in  their  variety  because  the  subject  is 
approached  from,  many  different  points  of  view. 
Some,  strictly  speaking,  fail  to  define,  because  they 
express  rather  what  is  poetical  in  general,  wherever 
it  may  be  found,  than  what  is  specifically  poetry. 
Some,   on   the   other   hand,  are  too  narrow  and  ex- 

^  The  Poetic  Principle.  ^  Lectures  on  Poetry. 

^Lectures  on  Poetry.         ^Modern  Painters,  Vol.  III.  Part  IV.  chap.  i. 

^  The  Liberal  Movement  in  English  L^iterature. 

*•  Art.  Poetry,  in  Encyclopedia  Britannica,  ninth  edition. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  85 

elusive,  because  they  recognise  only  the  particular 
kind  of  poetry  in  which  the  writer  happened  to  be 
personally  interested.  And  all  are  necessarily  so 
abstract  in  statement  that,  whatever  may  be  their 
philosophic  value,  they  leave  us  in  a  region  very 
remote  from  that  world  of  concrete  reality  in  which 
we  move  when  we  are  reading  poetry  itself 

It    is  fortunate   for    us,    then,   as    students,  not  of 
aesthetic    theory,   but    of   poetry,   that   we    need    not 
concern  ourselves  greatly  to  begin  with  about  formu- 
las and  definitions,   and  the  controversies   about  the 
ideal  aims  of  poetry  which  these  will  often  be  found 
to    involve.      At    the    same    time,    some    preliminary 
inquiry  into  the  commoner  qualities  of  poetry    ^^^^  ^^^ 
is   manifestly  necessary,  since  otherwise  we    mentsof 
should  start  on  our  work  without  any  principles      °®  ^' 
to  guide  us.      Our  initial  task  must  therefore  be,  not  to 
seek  a  formula  or  definition,  but — a  very  different,  and 
happily  a  much  simpler  thing — to  mark  out  some  of 
the  characteristics  of  poetry  which,  when  we  take  it  as 
we  find  it,  seem  on  the  whole  to  be  fairly  general  and 
constant. 

We  have  said  that  literature  is  an  interpretation  of 
life  as  life  shapes  itself  in  the  mind  of  the  interpreter. 
What,  then,  it  has  to  be  asked,  is  the  essential  element 
in  that  interpretation  of  life  which  we  describe  as 
poetical  ?  We  have  only  to  think  carefully  of  the 
connotations  of  the  word  poetical,  and  an  answer  will 
at  once  suggest  itself  By  poetical  we  understand  the 
emotional  and  the  imaginative.  In  this  sense  we  use 
the  word  in  current  conversation  to  describe  a  person, 
a  book  (whatever  its  subject  or  form),  a  picture,  an 
idea  thrown  out  in  talk.     By  the  poetical  interpreta- 


86  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUKE 

tion  of  life,  therefore,  we  mean  a  treatment  of  its  facts, 
experiences,  problems,  in  which  the  emotional  and 
imaginative  elements  predominate.  It  is  one  chief 
characteristic  of  poetry,  then,  that  whatever  it  touches 
in  life,  it  relates  to  our  feelings  and  passions,  while  at 
the  same  time  by  the  exercise  of  imaginative  power 
it  both  transfigures  existing  realities  and  ''gives  to 
airy  nothing  a  local  habitation  and  a  name."  Hence 
the  emphasis  thrown  in  sundry  of  the  definitions  we 
have  quoted  upon  the  emotional  and  imaginative 
attributes  of  poetry  ;  and  hence  Bacon's  conception  of 
poetry  as  the  idealistic  handling  of  life  which  lends 
"  some  shadow  of  satisfaction  to  the  mind  of  man  in 
those  points  wherein  the  nature  of  things  doth  deny 
it."i 

The  full  significance  of  poetry  as  an  interpretation 
of  life  through  imagination  and   feeling  will  be  made 

^  Advancement  of  Learnings  II.  iv.  2.  It  may  be  worth  while  to  re- 
mark that  nearly  all  interpretations  of  poetry  may  be  classed  roughly  as 
Baconian  or  Aristotelian  in  their  fundamentals  according  as  they  ap- 
proximate to  the  idealistic  view  above  mentioned,  or  to  Aristotle's  anti- 
thetical conception  of  it  as  in  its  essence  one  of  the  imitative  arts.  The 
Greek  philosopher's  theory  really  breaks  down  in  his  own  hands,  since, 
as  he  himself  admits,  the  poet's  business  (he  is  thinking  of  the  narrative 
poet)  is  to  relate,  not  what  actually  happens,  but  what  may  happen ;  for 
which  reason,  as  he  very  justly  argues,  poetry  is  more  "philosophical" 
than  history.  That  this  admission  yields  much  to  the  idealistic  theory  is 
evident.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  equally  evident  from  Bacon's  dis- 
cussion of  the  subject,  that  in  his  view  of  poetry  as  "feigned  history," 
and  as  an  effort  of  the  imagination  to  submit  **  the  shows  of  things  to  the 
desires  of  the  mind,"  he  practically  ignores  the  principle  of  poetic  truth, 
and  regards  poetry  as  an  untrammelled  exercise  of  the  imaginative  power. 
Thus  for  him  it  becomes  a  mere  "theatre"  of  the  mind,  to  which  we 
may  repair  for  relaxation  and  pleasure,  but  in  which  it  is  "not  good  to 
stay  too  long,"  because  it  only  "feigneth,"  while  science  is  concerned 
with  reality  and  truth.  As  we  shall  see  later,  his  view  cannot  therefore 
be  accepted  without  qualification  ;  but  the  root  of  the  matter  is  in  it. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETKY  87 

apparent  when  we  come  presently  to  deal  with  the 
relations  of  poetry  and  science,  and  with  the  pro- 
perties of  poetic  truth.  Another  aspect  of  the  matter 
has  first  to  be  considered. 

When  we  speak  of  imagination  and  feeling  as  pre- 
dominating in  poetry  we  mean  to  distinguish    pog^™  ^ 
these  as  general  and  constant  characteristics    a  Form  of 
of  the  poetic  treatment  of  life ;   but  we  do    ^^' 
not   mean   to    say   that   their   presence,    even   in   the 
highest  degree,  is  itself  sufficient  to  constitute  poetry. 
We  may  regard  them  as  essential  qualities  of  all  true 
poetry,   and   we   may  insist  that  without   them   even 
that  which  offers  itself  as   poetry,  and  is   commonly 
accepted  as  such,  must,  as  lacking  these   differentia, 
be  pronounced  unworthy  of  the  name.     But  they  are 
not   the   only   essential    qualities,   because    they   may 
exist  in  what  we  should  agree  to  call   poetic   prose, 
which  is  not  the  less  to  be  denominated  prose  because 
it    possesses    these    poetic    attributes.     The    common 
way  of  looking  at  this  matter  seems  to  me  perfectly    1 
sound.     There   is    much    "  poetry "    v/hich    is    purely 
"  prosaic  "  ;  there  is  much  "  prose  "  which  is  markedly     I 
"  poetical " ;    but  a  dividing  line  betv/een   prose  and 
poetry  still  exists.     What  does  this  imply?      It  im- 
plies that  poetry,  specifically  so  termed,  is  a  particular     1 
kind   of   art ;    that   it    arises    only    when    the    poetic 
qualities  of  imagination  and  feeling  are  embodied  in 
a  certain  form  of  expression.     That  form  is,  of  course,     1 
regularly    rhythmical    language^or    metre:      WithTJUt — K 
this,  we  may  have   the  "spirit   of   poetry   without   its 
externals,      y\I\fh    ^^^*^j  ^^    "^^3^  liaye   t|ip  (^vtprpalq   of 
poetry  without  its  spirit.      In  its  fullcpt  and  complctrKfr 
sense,  poetry  presupposes  the  union  of  the  two. 


88  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Here,  indeed,  as  must  be  frankly  said,  we  touch 
Poetry  and  upon  a  question  concerning  which  there  has 
Metre.  bggn  much  controversy  ;  for  many  critics  have 
categorically  denied  that  poetry  has  anything  to  do 
with  form.  Thus  Sir  Philip  Sidney,  while  he  acknow- 
ledges that  "  the  greatest  part  of  Poets  have  apparelled 
their  poeticall  inventions  in  that  numbrous  kinde  of 
writing  which  is  called  verse,"  maintains  that  verse  is 
"  apparell "  only,  "  being  but  an  ornament  and  no 
cause  to  poetry  ;  sith  there  hath  beene  many  most 
excellent  Poets,  that  have  never  versified,  and  now 
swarme  many  versifiers  that  neede  never  aunswere  to 
the  name  of  Poets."  ^  Bacon  took  the  same  ground 
when  he  stated  that  the  "  feigning,"  which  was  for 
him  the  peculiar  function  of  poetry,  may  be  "  as  well 
in  prose  as  in  verse."  ^  Coleridge,  too,  emphatically 
declares  that  "  poetry  of  the  highest  kind  may  exist 
without  metre,"  and  cites  the  writings  of  Plato  and 
Jeremy  Taylor,  and  even  Burnet's  Theory  of  the  Earthy 
as  "undeniable  proofs"  of  his  assertion.^  In  these 
and  in  other  similar  cases,  as  in  some  of  the  definitions 
which  have  been  quoted,  the  poetical  qualities  of 
thought  and  manner  are  emphasised  to  the  exclusion 
of  all  consideration  of  poetry  as  a  specific  kind  of  art. 
But  from  the  other  side  the  reply  has  come  that, 
whatever  else  poetry  may  or  may  not  involve,  the 
employment  of  a  systematically  rhythmical  language 
is  one  of  its  necessary  conditions.  "  It  has  been  con- 
tended by  some,"  writes  Leigh  Hunt,  "that  poetry 
need  not  be  written  in  verse  at  all  ;  that  prose  is  as 
good  a  medium,  provided  poetry  be  conveyed  through 

'  An  Apologiefor  Poetrie.        ^  Advancement  of  Learnings  II.  iv.  2. 
^  Biographia  Literaria,  chap,  xiv. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  89 

it ;  and  that  to  think  otherwise  is  to  confound  letter  with 
spirit,  or  form  with  essence.  But  the  opinion  is  a 
prosaical  mistake.  Fitness  or  unfitness  for  song,  or 
metrical  excitement,  make  all  the  difference  between 
a  poetical  and  prosaical  subject  ;  and  the  reason  why 
verse  is  necessary  to  the  form  of  poetry  is  that  the 
perfection  of  the  poetical  spirit  demands  it — that  the 
circle  of  its  enthusiasm,  beauty,  and  power,  is  incom- 
plete without  it."^  This  undoubtedly  overstates  the 
case  for  form,  since  the  writer  appears  to  ignore  the 
fact  that  the  truest  spirit  of  poetry  has  often  been 
expressed,  and  very  adequately  expressed,  without 
recourse  to  the  medium  of  verse.  The  difference  in 
question,  as  I  understand  it,  is  not  necessarily  between 
a  "  poetical  "  and  a  "  prosaical  "  subject,  but  between 
the  forms  in  which  perhaps  the  same  subject  may  be 
handled.  Treated  in  prose,  it  may  be  made  richly 
poetical ;  but  only  when  treated  in  metre  is  it  fashioned 
into  actual  poetry.  If  poetry,  then,  as  regards  its 
substance  and  spirit,  is  the  antithesis  of  science,  or 
matter  of  fact,  as  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge  rightly 
insisted,  it  is  none  the  less  to  be  distinguished  from 
prose,  as  regards  its  form,  by  the  systematically 
rhythmical  character  of  its  language. 

This  view  receives  important  support  from  one 
great  critic  who,  on  general  principles,  might  rather 
have  been  expected  to  oppose  it.  Carlyle  thought  of 
the  poet  always  as  the  seer,  and  many  of  his  own 
pages  might  be  adduced  as  splendid  examples  of 
poetry  in  prose.  Yet  he  distinctly  says  : — "  For  my 
own  part,  I  find  considerable  meaning  in  the  old 
.vulgar    distinction    of   poetry  being    metrical,  having 

^  Imagination  and  Fancy, 


90  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

music  in  it " ;  though  he  characteristically  adds  that 
there  is  much  in  the  form  of  poetry  which  was  under 
no  "  inward  necessity  "  to  be  in  that  form  at  all,  and 
had  far  better  therefore  have  been  in  plain  prose.^ 
Thus  also,  Matthew  Arnold,  despite  his  pre-occupa- 
tion  with  the  idea  of  poetry  as  a  "  criticism  of  life," 
lays  stress  upon  *'  the  essential  difference  between 
imaginative  production  in  verse,  and  imaginative 
production  in  prose."  The  "  rhythm  and  measure " 
of  poetry,  he  maintains,  "elevated  to  a  regularity, 
certainty,  and  force  very  different  from  that  of  the 
rhythm  and  measure  which  can  pervade  prose,  are 
a  part  of  its   perfection."  ^ 

That  in  thus  asserting  metre  to  be  one  of  the 
general  and  constant  characteristics  of  poetry,  and  in 
making  it  the  chief  point  of  distinction  between  poetry 
and  prose,  we  involve  ourselves  in  various  critical 
difficulties,  is  not  to  be  denied.  Whateley's  declara- 
tion that  **  any  composition  in  verse,  and  none  that  is 
not,  is  always  called,  whether  good  or  bad,  a  poem,  by 
all  who  have  no  favourite  hypothesis  to  maintain,"  ^  is 
obviously  correct.  Yet  it  seems  a  hard  saying,  for  to 
accept  it  means  that  we  are  bound  to  admit  under 
the  head  of  poetry  much  that  we  should  be  tempted  to 
exclude,  and  to  exclude  much  that  we  should  like  to 
admit.  To  call  Garth's  Dispensary  poetry,  and  to 
deny  the  name  to  some  of  the  magnificent  imaginative 
and  emotional  passages  in  Sartor  Resartus,  seems  at 
first  a  strange  abuse  of  the  word.  Nothing  but 
"  poetry,"  Mr  Frederic  Harrison  urges,   can  properly 

^  Heroes  and  Hero-  Worship,  Lecture  iii. 

2  The  French  Play  in  London,  in  Mixed  Essays. 

^  Elements  of  Rhetoric,  III.  iii.  3. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  91 

express  what  we  find  in  portions  of  the  Morte 
Oarthur  and  in  some  of  the  chapters  oi  Job  and  Isaiah} 
Mr  Bagehot  goes  farther,  confessing  tiiat  he  cannot 
"  draw  with  any  confidence  "  the  ''  exact  line  which 
separates  grave  novels  in  verse,  like  Ay  Inter's  Field  or 
Enoch  Arden  from  grave  novels  not  in  verse,  like  Silas 
Marner  or  Adam  Bede  "  ;  ^  and  such  uncertainty  as  to 
precise  boundaries  becomes  greater  if  we  substitute 
for  the  narrative  poems  named  such  works  as  The  Inn 
Alburn^  Aurora  Leigh^  Lucile^  and  Faithful  For  Ever^  in 
which  the  resemblance  to  prose  fiction  is  much  more 
marked.  Other  questions  start  up  on  every  side. 
What,  for  example,  it  may  be  asked,  are  we  to  say 
about  the  hundreds  of  lines  in  The  Excursion  which 
have  often  been  described  as  "prose  cut  into  lines  of 
equal  length,"  and  in  which,  as  even  the  most  devoted 
Wordsworthian  will  admit,  of  all  poetical  qualities  that 
of  metrical  form  alone  is  retained  ?  Does  a  poem 
cease  to  be  a  poem  when  it  is  turned  into  the  prose  of 
another  language  ?  Are  the  Psalms  no  longer  poems 
when  we  read  them  in  our  ordinary  English  version  ? 
Is  the  Odyssey  only  a  prose  tale  in  Butcher  and 
Lang's  admirable  translation,  while  it  remains  a  poem 
in  Pope's  immeasurably  less  poetical  as  well  as  less 
accurate  rendering  ?  And  how  are  we  to  deal  with 
the  many  experiments  which  from  time  to  time  have 
been  made  in  productions  which  are  intended  to  be 
read  and  judged  as  poetry,  but  in  which  regularity  of 
rhythm  is  abandoned,  and  the  language  used  may  be 
said  to  hover  between  verse  and  prose  ;  such  as 
Macpherson's  Ossian,  the  rhapsodies  of  Blake, 
Gessner's  Death  of  Abel,  imitated   by  Rousseau  in  his 

^  The  Choke  oj  Books,  ^  Essay  on  Wordsworth. 


92  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUEE 

Levite  d'Ephraim  and  by  Coleridge  in  his  fragmentary 
Wanderings  of  Cain^  F6nelon's  Telemaque^  Chateau- 
briand's Les  Martyrs,  the  Prose  Poems  of  Turgenev, 
and  (most  important  of  all  in  recent  discussions  as  to 
form)  Walt  Whitman's  Leaves  of  Grass}  These 
questions  show  the  futility  of  attempting  to  enforce 
hard  and  fast  distinctions  in  matters  in  which  the 
border  lines  are  often  undefined  and  the  territories 
overlap,  and  in  which,  therefore,  the  widest  differences 
in  point  of  view  must  always  be  allowed  for ;  and 
they  should  be  borne  in  mind  as  a  warning  against 
dogmatism.  Yet  on  the  whole,  we  may  safely  adhere 
to  the  "  old  vulgar  distinction  "  referred  to  by  Carlyle. 
Without  discussing  the  abstract  problem  whether 
regularity  of  rhythm  is  essential  to  a  complete  defini- 
tion of  poetry,  and  without  considering  whether  we  may 
not  have  to  recognise,  here  and  there,  exceptions  to 
our  rule,  we  may  lay  it  down  as  a  principle  that  metre 
always  has  been  and  still  is  the  most  general  and 
constant  feature  of  poetry  on  the  side  of  form.  This 
it  is,  therefore,  which  we  have  to  accept  as  the  funda- 
mental quality  of  poetry  conceived  as  a  distinct  kind 
of  literary  art.  Only  in  fact  by  an  extension  of  its 
meaning  and  by  a  certain  license  of  speech  is  the  word 
poetry  to  be  applied  to  any  composition,  no  matter 
how  high  may  be  its  poetical  energy  of  thought  and 
expression,  which  is  not  in  verse. 

Of  the  significance  of  rhythm  in  poetry  much  might 

The  siffni-  ^^  ^^^^'  ^"^  ^^^  subject  is  too  large,  and 
ficanceof     too  intricately  entangled   with   questions  of 

^  ^'  psychology,  to  be  dealt  with  in  detail  here. 
A  few  points  only  may  be  touched  upon  in  passing. 

In   the    first    place,   even  if  the   relation    between 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  93 

rhythmical    form  and  poetical   substance   and  feeling 

were  only  an  accidental   one,  the  ordered  measure  of 

verse  would  still  hold    its    ground    as    an   important 

accessory  of  poetry,   because  it  adds  greatly  to    the 

aesthetic  pleasure  which  it  is  a  chief  function  of  poetry 

to  afford.      So  familiar  is  this  fact  that  to  mention  it 

is  enough.     A  few  theorists  may  argue  in  favour  of 

the  "  liberation  "  of  poetry  from  the  formal  restraints 

of  metre  ;  a   few  practical  exponents  of  the  creed  of 

enfranchisement  may  cast  these  restraints  aside  ;  but 

the    vast    majority    of   those    who    love    poetry    will 

acknowledge  that  the  definitely  regulated  music  of  its 

language  is  one  peculiar   element  in  the  satisfaction 

yielded  by  it.      It  is  indeed  by  the  use  of  this  wonderful 

instrument  that,  as  a   means   of   producing  aesthetic 

pleasure,  poetry    maintains    an  advantage  over  "  the 

other  harmony  " — the  loose  and  unregulated  rhythm — 

of  prose.      Metre,  then,    we    may    rightly     call,   with 

Arnold,  a  "  part  of  its  perfection." 

It  is,  however,  in  the  second   place,  a   part  of  the 

perfection  of  poetry  in  a  much  more  impor-  Rhythm 

tant  sense  than  is  implied  if  we  rest  in  the   ^  Natural 
.  ,  .        1  Velucleof 

assumption    that    it    is   nothing  but  a  mere  poetic 

accessory.  A  mere  accessory  in  fact  it  is  not.  *"®®ii^ff- 
It  is  rather  the  form  which  the  poetic  spirit  seeks 
spontaneously  to  fashion  for  itself,  and  as  such,  it 
"  perfects  "  poetry  by  providing  it  with  its  most  natural 
and  adequate  means  of  expression.  "  Ever  since  man 
has  been  man,"  says  Mill,  "all  deep  and  sustained 
feeling  has  tended  to  express  itself  in  rhythmical 
language,  and  the  deeper  the  feeling  the  more  charac- 
teristic and  decided  the  rhythm."  ^     It  is  this  psycho- 

^  Thoughts  on  Poetry  and  its  Varieties, 


94  THE  STQDY  OF  LITERATURE 

logical  truth  which  lies  at  the  root  of  the  almost 
universal  connection — which  is  therefore  a  causal,  and 
not  simply  an  accidental  connection — between  poetic 
feeling  and  metrical  diction.  It  has  often  been  noted 
as  a  striking  proof  of  the  closeness  of  the  relationship 
that  what  is  known  as  impassioned,  or  oratorical  prose 
— prose  which  is  fraught  with  strong  imagination  and 
emotion — commonly  exhibits,  as  in  many  passages 
in  the  poetic  books  of  our  English  Bible,  a  rhythmical 
emphasis  which  distinctly  approaches,  though  it  does 
not  actually  reach,  the  regulated  cadences  of  verse.^ 

Nor  is  this  all.  It  was  noted  by  Hegel  that  the 
use  of  verse  in  a  given  piece  of  literature  serves  in 
itself  to  lift  us  into  a  world  quite  different  from  that 
of  prose  or  everyday  life.  The  German  philosopher 
was  thinking  only  of  the  influence  of  verse  upon  the 
reader.  But  that  his  remark  has  wider  bearings  is 
strikingly  shown  by  the  testimony  furnished  by  a  great 
German  poet  to  the  effect  produced  upon  the  poet 
himself  by  the  substitution  of  the  medium  of  verse 
for  that  of  prose.  "  I  have  never  before,"  writes 
Schiller  to  Goethe,  "  been  so  palpably  convinced  as  in 
my  present  occupation  " — which  was  that  of  turning  a 
prose  composition  into  verse — "  how  closely  in  poetry 
Substance  and  Form  are  connected.  Since  I  have 
begun  to  transform  my  prosaic  language  into  a  poetic 

^  There  are  cases  indeed  in  which  the  rhythm  becomes  so  marked  and 
uniform  that  the  dividing  line  between  prose  and  verse  is  practically 
obliterated.  Dickens  occasionally  fell  into  this  bastard  style  ;  notably  in 
the  description  of  the  death  and  burial  of  Little  Nell,  which,  as  R.  H. 
Home  was  the  first  to  point  out,  though  printed  as  prose,  is  really 
**  written  in  blank  verse  of  irregular  metres  and  rhythms."  Home 
would  find  few  critics  now  to  echo  his  praise  of  it,  for  such  metrical 
prose  must,  as  prose,  be  pronounced  a  grave  artistic  mistake. 


•i;# 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  95 

rhythmical  one,  I  find  myself  under  a  totally  different 
jurisdiction  ;  even  many  motives  which  in  the  prosaic 
execution  seemed  to  me  to  be  perfectly  in  place,  I  can 
no  longer  use  ;  they  were  merely  good  for  the  common 
domestic  understanding,  whose  organ  prose  seems  to 
be ;  but  verse  absolutely  demands  reference  to  the 
imagination :  and  thus  I  was  obliged  to  become 
poetical  in  many  of  my  motives."  ^  The  interest  of 
this  passage,  as  will  be  seen,  lies  in  the  fact  that  in  it 
the  relation  between  poetic  substance  and  metrical 
form  is  regarded  from  an  unusual  point  of  view. 
Commonly  we  think  of  poetic  feeling  as  fashioning 
metrical  form  for  its  expression.  Schiller  helps  us 
to  realise  the  intimacy  of  the  connection  between  them 
by  emphasising  the  influence  of  poetic  form  in  stimu- 
lating the  poetic  spirit. 

We  may  conclude,  therefore,  that  while  verse  is  of 
course  often  used  as  the  vehicle  of  purely  prosaic 
thought,  it  ought  not  to  be  so  used  ;  and  that  con- 
versely, while  an  exalted  mood  of  passion  and  im- 
aginative ecstacy  may  often  find  utterance  in  prose, 
prose  is  not  its  most  appropriate  or  even  its  most 
natural  medium.  The  offices  of  prose  and  verse  are, 
in  fact,  distinct  ;  and  their  distinction  is  not  fortuitous 
nor  arbitrary,  but  vital.  Thus  it  is  that  in  all  true 
poetry  that  union  of  substance  and  form,  of  which 
Schiller  speaks,  is  so  organic  and  complete  that  it 
impresses  us  with  a  conviction   of  its  absolute   inevi- 

^  Letter  to  Goethe,  quoted  in  Lewes's  Lift  of  Goethe^  Book  V.  chap.  i. 
The  quotation  is  made  with  reference  to  the  original  prose  version  of 
Goethe's  Iphigenie  auf  Tauris,  which,  as  Lewes  suggestively  notes,  is 
"saturated  with  verses."  Goethe  "meant  to  write  prose,"  because  at 
the  time  he  was  much  influenced  by  the  current  mania  for  prose-tragedy, 
**  but  his  thoughts  instinctively  expressed  themselves  in  verse." 


96  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

lability.  For  this  reason  we  may  acquiesce  in  Herbert 
Spencer's  grim  remark  that  "  no  one  should  write 
verse  if  he  can  help  it.."  ^ 

This,  however,  is  only  one  side  of  the  matter. 
There  is  another  side  which,  from  the  standpoint  of 
the  reader,  is  even  more  important. 

Metre,  like  music,  makes  in  itself  a  profound 
appeal  to  the  feelings.  Merely  to  arrange  words  in  a 
definitely  rhythmical  order  is  to  endow  them,  as  by 
some  secret  magic,  with  a  new  and  subtle  emotional 
power — to  touch  them  with  a  peculiar  suggestive- 
ness  which  in  themselves,  simply  as  words  conveying 
such  and  such  meanings,  they  do  not  possess.  Why 
this  is,  the  student  of  literature  must  leave  it  to  the 
psychologist  to  explain.  For  him  it  is  a  fact,  and  a 
fact  of  the  utmost  interest  and  significance.  He 
knows  that  the  recurrent  beats  and  pauses,  the  rapid 
march  or  the  languid  movement,  of  verses  read  to  him 
in  a  language  he  does  not  understand,  will  often  stir 
him,  as  he  is  stirred  by  sonata  or  symphony,  to  moods 
of  martial  excitement  or  pensive  melancholy ;  and 
from  this  he  learns — what  otherwise,  indeed,  his  whole 
experience  should  have  taught  him  —  that  metre  is 
a  powerful  aid  in  the  emotionalisation  of  thought,  and 
that  the  various  metrical  forms  in  which  the  poet  most 
naturally  and  appropriately  embodies  his  feeling,  are 
also,  of  all  possible  forms,  the  most  potent  to  excite 
the  reader's  feeling  to  a  sympathetic  response. 
"  How  much  the  power  of  poetry  depends  upon  the 
nice  inflections  of  rhythm  alone,  may  be  proved,"  as 
James  Montgomery  pointed  out,  "  by  taking  the  finest 

^  Autobiography,  \.  26^.     Compare   Carlyle's  dictum  about  "inward 
necessity,"  already  quoted. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  97 

passages  of  Milton  and  Shakespeare,  and  merely 
putting  them  into  prose,  with  the  least  possible  varia- 
tion of  the  words  themselves.  The  attempt  would  be 
like  gathering  up  dewdrops,  which  appear  jewels  and 
pearls  on  the  grass,  but  run  into  water  in  the  hand  ; 
the  essence  and  the  elements  remain,  but  the  grace, 
the  sparkle,  and  the  form  are  gone."  ^ 

More  than  ever,  then,  it  is  evident  that  metre  is  no 
mere  accessory  or  conventional  ornament  of  poetry, 
but  a  vital  product  of  the  poetic  spirit,  and  that  the 
common  sense  of  the  world  is  right  in  regarding  it — 
whatever  occasional  exceptions  may  have  to  be  made 
— as  a  distinctive  and  fundamental  characteristic  of 
poetry  as  a  form  of  art. 


II 

We  may  now  inquire  a  little  more  particularly  into 
the  purport  of  the  statement  that  poetry  is  an  inter- 
pretation of  life  through  the  imagination  and  the  feel- 
ings. We  can  best  approach  this  subject  by  noting  the 
fundamental  difference  between  poetry, and  science. 

The  wt>rld  with  which  science  deals  is  what  we 
commonly  call  the  world  of  fact ;  by  which  we 
properly  mean  the  world  of  physical  actual- 
ity objectively  considered.  The  business  of  aninter- 
the  scientist,  as  the  current  phrase  has  it,  is  pretation 
with  things  as  they  are  in  themselves.  He 
studies  their  forms  and  organisations,  their  qualities, 
characteristics,  and  connections ;  he  collates  and 
classifies  them ;  he  investigates  the  conditions  and 
processes  under  and  by  which  they  have  come  to  be 

^  Lectures  on  Poetry^  iii, 
G 


98  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

what  they  are.  Each  science  treats  of  some  one  aspect 
of  the  external  world  in  this  purely  objective  way  ; 
while  science  in  the  larger  sense  advances  from  fact 
to  generalisation,  and  from  generalisation  to  still  more 
and  more  comprehensive  generalisations,  thus  seeking 
to  reduce  the  multiplicity  and  apparent  confusion  of 
the  universe  to  unity  and  order.  Science,  therefore, 
aims  to  afford  a  systematic  and  rational  explana- 
tion of  things — an  explanation  which  shall  include 
their  natures,  genesis,  and  history — in  terms  of  cause, 
effect,  and  physical  law.  With  what  remains  after 
such  explanation  has  been  given,  science  as  science 
has  nothing  to  do. 
ly^  Yet  no  fact  of  experience  can  be  more  familiar  or 
more  patent  than  this — that  with  what  remains  after 
such  explanation  has  been  given  we  ourselves  have  a 
great  deal  to  do.  In  our  daily  converse  with  the 
world  we  are  indeed  chiefly  interested,  not  in  things 
as  they  are  in  themselves,  but  with  the  aspect  which 
they  bear  and  the  appeal  which  they  make  to  our 
emotional  natures.  While  we  are  actually  engaged 
in  scientific  study  we  may,  it  is  true,  think  of  the 
universe  merely  as  a  vast  aggregation  of  phenomena 
to  be  examined,  catalogued,  accounted  for ;  but  in  our 
common  human  dealings  with  it,  we  do  not  so  think 
of  it.  When  science  has  provided  us  with  its  com- 
pletest  rationale  of  things,  we  are  still  primarily  im- 
pressed by  their  mystery  and  beauty.  No  explanation 
can  ever  destroy  this  impression ;  father,  we  may  say 
that  every  explanation  will  serve  only  to  intensify  it. 
In  this  simple  fact  we  have  to  seek  both  the  foun- 
dation and  the  permanent  significance  of  poetry. 
Though  the  mystery  and   beauty  of  the   world    are 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  99 

habitually  recognised  by  us,  they  are  recognised  for 
the  most  part  only  in  a  vague  and  sluggish  way. 
There  are,  however,  moods  of  heightened  feeling  in 
which  they  come  home  to  us  with  special  vividness 
and  power.  It  is  then  that  we  are  deeply  stirred  to 
delight  or  wonder,  to  gratitude  or  reverent  awe.  Out 
of  such  moods  poetry  springs ;  to  such  moods  it 
addresses  itself.  It  reports  to  us  of  things  from  their 
emotional  and  spiritual  sides.  It  expresses  and  inter- 
prets their  appeal  to  us,  and  our  response  to  them. 
It  is  thus  at  once  the  antithesis  and  the  complement 
of  science. 

"  Poetry,"  says  Leigh  Hunt,  "  begins  where  matter 
of  fact  or  of  science  ceases  to  be  merely  such,  and  to 
exhibit  a  further  truth,  the  connection  it  has    poetry 

with  the  world  of  emotion,  and  its  power  to    and 

J  ....  ,  T         •  •  r    Science, 

produce  imagmative  pleasure.     Inquinng  of 

a  gardener,  for  instance,  what  flower  it  is  we  see 
yonder,  he  answers  '  a  lily.'  This  is  matter  of  fact. 
The  botanist  pronounces  it  to  be  of  the  order  of 
Hexandria  monogynia.  This  is  matter  of  science.  It 
is  the  '  lady '  of  the  garden,  says  Spenser ;  and  here 
we  begin  to  have  a  poetical  sense  of  its  fairness  and 
grace.  It  is  '  the  plant  and  flower  of  light^  says  Ben 
Jonson  ;  and  poetry  then  shows  us  the  beauty  of  the 
flower  in  all  its  mystery  and  splendour."^ 

In  one  sense,  of  course,  this  passage  is  unsatis- 
factory. It  gives  a  wholly  inadequate  idea  of  the 
work  of  science.  For  science  is  not  merely  nomen- 
clature and  classification,  and  it  has  a  great  deal  more 
to  tell  us  about  the  lily  than  that,  according  to  the 
Linnaean   system,   it   is   "  of   the  order  of  Hexandria 

^  Imagination  and  Fancy ^  i. 


loo  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

monogyniar  Yet,  allowance  made  for  this  super- 
ficiality, the  relation  of  poetic  description  to  scientific 
fact  is  quite  felicitously  indicated.  The  botanist  may 
dissect  the  "  flower  in  the  crannied  wall,"  and,  with  its 
tiny  members  laid  out  before  him,  may  discourse  to 
us  of  its  bracts  and  petals,  its  stamens  and  pistils. 
That  everything  he  has  to  tell  us  will  prove  profoundly 
interesting  and  wonderful,  I  need  not  pause  to  insist. 
Yet,  after  all,  the  botanist's  dissected  flower  is  not  our 
flower — is  not  the  flower  that  we  actually  know  and 
love ;  nor  does  his  most  elaborate  analysis  of  it  help 
us  in  the  least  to  realise  more  keenly,  what  we  often 
specially  want  to  realise,  the  delight  which  we  experi- 
ence in  its  simple  sweetness  and  beauty.  For  any 
vivid  sense  of  such  sweetness  and  beauty,  for  any 
translation  into  words  of  the  pleasure  they  give  us, 
we  have  rather  to  turn  to  the  poet  who,  by  his 
imaginative  handling  of  his  subject,  catches  the 
meaning  that  it  has  for  us,  and  expresses  with 
absolute  fidelity  and  stimulating  power,  the  feelings 
to  which  it  gives  birth  in  ourselves.  For  this  reason 
Matthew  Arnold  is  perfectly  right  in  maintaining 
that  "  the  grand  power  of  poetry  "  is  "  the  power  of  so 
dealing  with  things  as  to  awaken  in  us  a  wonderfully 
full,  new,  and  intimate  sense  of  them,  and  of  our 
relations  with  them."  "  I  will  not  now  inquire," 
Arnold  continues,  "  whether  this  sense  is  illusive, 
whether  it  can  be  proved  not  to  be  illusive,  whether 
it  does  absolutely  make  us  possess  the  real  nature  of 
I  things  ;  all  I  say  is,  that  poetry  can  awaken  it  in  us, 
I  and  that  to  awaken  it  is  one  of  the  highest  powers  of 
/  poetry.  The  interpretations  of  science  do  not  give 
us  this  intimate  sense  of  objects  as  the  interpretations 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  loi 

of  poetry  give  it  ;  they  appeal  to  a  limited  faculty, 
and  not  to  the  whole  man.  It  is  not  Linnaeus  or 
Cavendish  or  Cuvier  who  gives  us  the  true  sense  of 
animals,  or  water,  or  plants,  who  seizes  their  secret, 
who  makes  us  participate  in  their  life  ;  it  is  Shake- 
speare, with  his 

*  daffodils 

That  come  before  the  swallow  dares,  and  take 

The  winds  of  March  with  beauty ' ; 

it  is  Wordsworth,  with  his 

'voice  .  .  .  heard 
In  spring-time  from  the  cuckoo-bird, 
Breaking  the  silence  of  the  seas 
Among  the  farthest  Hebrides' ; 

it  is  Keats,  with  his 

'  moving  waters  at  their  priest-like  task 
Of  pure  ablution  round  Earth's  human  shores ' ; 

it  is  Chateaubriand  with  his  '■  cime  indeterminee  des 
^orets\'  it  is  Senancour,  with  his  mountain  birch- 
tree  :  *  Cette  ecorce  blanche^  lisse  et  crevassee ;  cette 
tige  agreste ;  ces  branches  qui  sHnclinent  vers  la  terre  ; 
la  mobiliie  des  feuilles,  et  tout  cet  abandon,  simplicite 
de  la  nature,  attitude  des  deserts' "  ^ 

The  relations  of  poetic  interpretation  to  scientific 
fact  should  now  be  sufficiently  clear ;  but,  as  the 
subject  is  one  of  fundamental  interest  in  the  con- 
sideration of  the  place  and  functions  of  poetry,  space 
may  be  found  for  one  further  illustration.  This  I 
take  from  the  pages  of  Mr  Edmund  Clarence 
Stedman's  book  on  The  Nature  and  Elements  of 
Poetry.      "The   portrayal   of  things    as   they  seem," 

^  Essay  on  Maurice  de  Gu^rin,  in  Essays  in  Criticism,  first  scries. 


I02  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

which  is  the  special  business  of  the  artist,  whatever 
his  medium  may  be,  "  conveys,"  as  Mr  Stedman 
rightly  argues,  "a  truth  just  as  important  as  that 
other  truth  which  the  man  of  analysis  and  demonstra- 
tion imparts  to  the  intellect "  when  he  exhibits  things 
as  they  are  in  themselves ;  and  this  doctrine  he 
enforces  by  reference  to  the  difference  between  the 
scientist's  treatment  and  the  poet's  treatment  of  a 
storm  on  the  Atlantic  coast.     "  The  poet  says  : — 

*  When  descends  on  the  Atlantic 

The  gigantic 
Storm-wind  of  the  Equinox, 
Landward  in  his  wrath  he  scourges 

The  toiling  surges 
Laden  with  sea- weed  from  the  rocks.' 

Or  take  this  stanza  by  a  later  balladist : — 

'  The  East  Wind  gathered,  all  unknown, 
A  thick  sea-cloud  his  course  before  : 
He  left  by  night  the  frozen  zone, 

And  smote  the  cliffs  of  Labrador ; 
He  lashed  the  coasts  on  either  hand, 
And  betwixt  the  Cape  and  Newfoundland 
Into  the  bay  his  armies  pour.' 

All  this  impersonification  and  fancy  is  translated 
by  the  Weather  Bureau  into  something  like  the 
following  : — 

'  An  area  of  extreme  low  pressure  is  rapidly 
moving  up  the  Atlantic  coast,  with  wind  and  rain. 
Storm-centre  now  off  Charleston,  S.C.  Wind  N.E. 
Velocity,  54.  Barometer,  29.6.  The  disturbance  will 
reach  New  York  on  Wednesday,  and  proceed  eastward 
to  the  Banks  and  Bay  of  St  Lawrence.  Danger- 
signals  ordered  for  all  North  Atlantic  ports.' " 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  103 

With  these  contrasted  passages  before  us  we  have 
no  difficulty  in  realising  the  weight  of  Mr  Stedman's 
contention  that  the  imaginative  rendering  of  fact  is 
in  its  own  way  just  as  important  as  the  plain  state- 
ment of  it.  But  we  may  go  even  farther  than  this, 
and  assert  that  from  one  point  of  view  the  imaginative 
rendering  contains  a  quality  of  vital  truth  which  is 
not  to  be  found  in  the  plain  statement.  For  which 
gives  us  the  more  genuine  and  vivid  sense  of  a  storm 
as  we  ourselves  actually  feel  it — the  "  impersonifica- 
tion  and  fancy"  of  the  poet,  or  the  colourless  and 
unimpassioned  language  of  the  Weather  Bureau 
bulletin?  The  question  can  easily  be  decided  by 
a  direct  appeal  to  experience.  Let  anyone  who 
has  ever  enjoyed  a  great  gale  on  some  rocky  sea-coast 
turn  to  the  meteorologist's  dry  catalogue  of  phenomena 
and  ask  himself  if  any  suggestion  of  the  life  and 
reality  of  what  he  then  witnessed  and  felt  be  in  it. 
For  the  life  and  reality  of  the  storm  he  will  have  to 
go  to  the  poet's  imaginative  version  of  it. 

We  are  thus  able  to  realise  the  essential  quality 
of  poetic  truth.  By  poetic  truth  we  do  Poetic 
not  mean  fidelity  to  facts  in  the  ordinary  Truth, 
acceptation  of  the  term.  Such  fidelity  we  look  for 
in  science.  By  poetic  truth  we  mean  fidelity  to 
our  emotional  apprehension  of  facts,  to  the  impression 
which  they  make  upon  us,  to  the  feelings  of  pleasure 
or  pain,  hope  or  fear,  wonder  or  religious  reverence, 
which  they  arouse.  Our  first  test  of  truth  in  poetry, 
therefore,  is  its  accuracy  in  expressing,  not  what 
things  are  in  themselves,  but  their  beauty  and  mystery, 
their  interest  and  meaning  for  us. 

Here,  then,  we  reach  the  full  significance  of  poetry 


104  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURIl 

as  an  interpretation  of  life — the  life  of  nature  and 
the  life  of  humanity — through  the  imagination  and 
the  feelings.  To  prevent  possible  misapprehension, 
however,  several  points  have  now  to  be  considered. 

In    the  first    place,  it  is  not  to   be   assumed   that 
Fidelity  to  t>ecause    a  poet's    principal   concern  is   with   ' 
Fact  in      the  beauty  and  mystery,  the  human  interest 
Poetry.      ^^^    meaning  of  the  things  with  which  he 
deals,  he  is  under  no  restraint  or  obligation  in  respect 
of  objective  reality.     Such    assumption  is,  indeed,  a 
not  uncommon  one  ;  yet  a  moment's  thought  will  con- 
vince us  that   it  is  utterly  erroneous.     The   poet,   it 
is    true,  gives  us  that  intimate  sense  of  thing?  and 
of  our  relations  with  them,  of  which  Arnold  speaks, 
by  touching  them  with  imagination  and  feeling,  and 
lihking  them  with  our    own  life.     But  we  none   the 
less  demand  of  him  that  his  vision  of  the  world  shall 
still  be  a  clear  and  steady  vision,  and  that  absolute 
fidelity    shall     be    his    guiding     principle    in    aTP  his 
"^  renderings    of    perceived    facts.      All    poetry    has    to 
be  tried  by  the  criterion  of  this  fidelity,  for  it  belongs 
to  the  essential  foundations  of  poetic  greatness.     When, 
'pTbr   example,  Oliver  Wendell   Holmes  speaks  of  the 
I    crocus  as   the  ''  spendthrift  crocus  .  .  .  with  his  cup 
I    of  gold,"  he  does  what  the  poet  should  do — he  touches 
I    the  flower  with  imagination  and  feeling,  and  links  it 
/     with    our    own    life ;  and  by  so  doing,  he   doubtless 
t      gives  the   careless  or  ignorant  reader  a    lively  sense 
I      of   its  beauty  and  charm.     But  for  the    reader  who 
I     really  knows  the  crocus,  and  who  has  himself  watched 
1     it    closely,  the  magic  of  his  description  is  spoilt  by 
1    its    unveracity  ;    since,    as    Ruskin    pointed    out,   th$ 
\    crocus    cannot    rightly    be     called    ''spendthrift,"    for 


THE  STUD^  OF  POETRY  tdS 

it  is  a  hardy  plant,  while  its  yellow  is  not  gold  but 
saffron.^  Here,  then,  we  have  a  case  in  which  the 
imaginative  handling  of  natural  fact  is  unsatisfactory 
because  it  wants  the  basis  of  reality  ;  the  poetry 
is  wrought,  not  out  of,  but  at  the  expense  of  truth. 
The  fidelity,  and  therefore  the  poetic  value  of  some 
of  Milton's  natural  imagery  have  similarly  been 
impugned  on  the  score  of  lack  of  substantial  knowledge 
and  accuracy  of  detail.  "  A  close  observer  of  things 
around  us  would  not  speak " — as  Milton  does  in 
L Allegro  and  //  Penseroso — "  of  the  eglantine  as 
twisted,  of  the  cowslip  as  wan,  of  the  violet  as  glowing, 
or  of  the  reed  as  balmy.  Lycidas'  laureate  herse 
is  to  be  strewn  at  once  with  primrose  and  woodbine, 
daffodil  and  jasmine,"  which  indicates  a  strange  con- 
fusion as  to  the  flora  of  the  seasons  in  the  poet's  mind. 
"  The  pine  is  not '  rooted  deep  as  high  '  {P,R.  44 1 6),  but 
sends  its  roots  along  the  surface.  The  elm,  one  of 
the  thinest  foliaged  trees  of  the  forest,  is  inappropriately 
named  starproof  {Arc.  89).  Lightning  does  not 
singe  the  tops  of  trees  {P.L,  i.  613),  but  either  shivers 
them,  or  cuts  a  groove  down  the  stem  to  the  ground. 
These  and  other  such  like  inaccuracies,"  says  Mr 
Mark  Pattison,  by  whom  they  are  collected,  **  must 
be  set  down  partly  to  conventional  language  used 
without  meaning,  the  vice  of  Latin  versification  enforced 
as  a  task,  but  they  are  partly  due  to  real  defect  of 
natural  knowledge."^  To  us  the  source  of  such  infidelity 
does  not  for  the  moment  matter.  The  point  now 
to  be  insisted  upon  is  simply  this — that,  despite  all 
popular  ideas  to  the  contrary,  the  imaginative  handling 

^  Modem  Painters,  Vol.  III.  Part  iv.  chap.  xii. 
2  Milton,  in  English  Men  of  Letters^  chap.  ii. 


io6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

of  nature  does  not  properly  include,  and  must 
certainly  not  be  held  to  excuse,  such  lax  treatment  of 
natural  facts. 

As  a  contrast  to  Milton's  occasional  slips  and  con- 
ventionalisms we  may  note  the  detailed  accuracy 
which  almost  invariably  characterises  Tennyson's 
treatment  of  nature.     In  such  passages  as 

"  More  black  than  ashbuds  in  the  front  of  March  "  ;  ^ 
and 

"  A  crowd  of  hopes, 
That  sought  to  sow  themselves  like  winged  seeds  "  ;  * 
and 

"  Her  hair, 
In  gloss  and  hue  the  chestnut,  when  the  shell 
Divides  threefold  to  show  the  fruit  within  "  ;  ^ 
and 

"In  the  spring  a  fuller  crimson  comes  upon  the  robin's  breast ; 
In  the  spring  the  wanton  lapwing  gets  himself  another  crest "  ;  * 

w«  know  that  the  poet's  eye  has  indeed  been  upon 
his  object  ;  that  he  has  looked  steadily  at  things 
for  himself;  that  he  records  carefully  what  he  has 
seen.  Such  first  hand  knowledge  of  the  aspects  of 
nature  dealt  with,  and  such  fidelity  in  the  treatment 
of  them,  must  be  reckoned  among  the  elements 
of  poetic  truth.  We  can  now  see  in  what  ways 
Bacon's  conception  of  poetry  as  mere  "  feigning " 
has  to  be  qualified  before  it  can  be  accepted.  The 
touch  of  imagination  and  feeling  upon  the  outer 
world  may  often  transfigure,  but  should  never  mis- 
represent or  distort  it.  This  principle  holds  good 
whether  we  consider  the  poet's  rendering  of  particular 

^  The  Gardener  s  Daughter.  '^  Ibia. 

»  The  Brook.  *  Locksky  Hall, 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  107 

natural  phenomena,  as  in  the  instances  cited,  or  his 
treatment  of  nature  in  general,  or  his  interpretation 
of  human  life  and  experience. 

It  is  often,  it  must  be  admitted,  extremely  difficult 
to  distinguish  between  the  poetic  transfiguration  of 
natural  fact,  which  is  entirely  justifiable,  because  it 
gives  us  only  another  kind  of  truth,  and  that  which  is 
tantamount  to  misrepresentation,  and  should  ^^^ 
therefore  be  condemned.  This  question,  "Pathetic 
though  important,  is  one  which  is  unfortun-  ^^^^°y- 
ately  too  involved  to  be  discussed  fully  within  the 
narrow  limits  of  the  present  section,  and  the  briefest 
consideration  of  it  must  suffice.  The  reader  will 
remember  that  it  was  definitely  raised  by  Ruskin  in 
his  famous  chapters  on  TAe  Pathetic  Fallacy  and 
Classical  Landscape  in  Modern  Painters}  By  "  pathetic 
fallacy " — an  injudiciously  chosen  phrase,  as  a  sub- 
stitute for  which  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  proposed 
"  sympathetic  illusion  "  ^ —  Ruskin  means  our  modejrn 
"  subjective  "  way  of  dealing  v/ith  nature  ;  that  is,  our 
habit  of  transferring  our  own  mental  and  emotional 
states  to  the  things  which  we  contemplate.  This 
Ruskin  pronounces  a  defect.  Yet  it  cannot  properly 
be  regarded  as  such ;  nor  is  he  himself  very  clear  or 
consistent  in  what  he  says  in  his  criticism  of  it.  He 
falls  foul  of  Kingsley  because  in  the  ballad  of  The 
Sands  of  Dee  he  writes  : — 

"  They  rowed  her  in  across  the  rolling  foam — 
The  cruel,  crawHng  foam  "  ; 

"  the  foam  is  not  cruel,  neither  does  it  crawl,"  he  pro- 
tests, and  to  speak  of  it  in  these  terms  is  to  falsify  it. 

^  Vol.  III.  Part  IV.  2  i^ijg^  of  Enter  son  t  chap.  xiv. 


io8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITER ATUBE 

But  he  presently  acknowledges  that,  while  the  epithets 
used  "  fallaciously  describe  foam,"  they  "  faithfully 
describe  sorrow  "  ;  in  other  words,  they  truly  reflect 
our  feeling  about  the  sea  when  in  a  mood  of  violent 
grief  we  think  of  it  as  a  destructive  agent.  Again, 
he  finds  fault  with  the  lines  in  which  Keats  depicts 
a  wave  breaking,  out  at  sea  : — 

"  Down  whose  green  back  the  short-lived  foam,  all  hoar, 
Bursts  gradual  with  a  wayward  indolence  "— 

because  salt  water  can  be  neither  wayward  nor  indolent. 
None  the  less  he  concedes  that  "the  idea  of  the 
peculiar  action  with  which  foam  rolls  down  a  long, 
large  wave  could  not  have  been  given  by  any  other 
words  so  well  as  by  this  wayward  indolence."  Surely, 
therefore,  Keats's  description  furnishes  us  with  an 
admirable  example  of  poetic,  as  contradistinguished 
from  scientific,  truth.  I  have  said  this  much  because 
the  question  of  the  subjective  treatment  of  nature  in 
modern  poetry  is  one  which  perpetually  arises,  and 
cannot  therefore  be  passed  over  in  silence.  Without 
pursuing  the  matter  further  we  may,  I  think,  lay  it 
down  as  a  rule  for  our  guidance  that  the  translation 
of  natural  facts  into  terms  of  our  own  feelings  is 
wrong  only  when  those  feelings  are  themselves  morbid, 
or  in  the  circumstances  unreasonable  or  illegitimate, 
or  when  they  are  so  violent  as  to  render  our  vision  of 
things  untrustworthy  and  our  transcript  of  them 
essentially  untrue.^ 

^  Some  remarks  by  the  late  Mr  Roden  Noel  on  Ruskin's  criticism  of 
Keats  are  here  very  much  to  the  point,  and  should  be  read  with  close 
attention.  "Now,  salt  water  cannot  be  either  wayward  or  indolent ;  on 
this  plain  fact  the  charge  of  falsehood  in  the  metapnor  is  grounded.     Yet 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  109 

This  brings  us  to  another  consideration.      While  the 
poet  will  always  and  of  necessity  deal  largely  The  Poetic 
with  such  aspects  of  things  as  appeal  directly  ^^e  of 
4.     ^u  J  ..t,     r     1-  ^i-         •         .!.•         Scientific 

to  the  senses  and  the  feelings,  there  is  nothing  Know- 
to  prevent  him  from  penetrating  beneath  their  ^®^&®- 
surface,  or  from  taking  as  his  subject-matter  those  more 
recondite  truths  of  nature  which  are  revealed  by  science. 
There  is  thus  a  poetic  interpretation  of  nature  based 
upon  scientific  knowledge  and  the  emotions  stirred  by 
this,  as  there  is  a  poetic  interpretation  which  limits  itself 
to  appearances  and  the  emotions  stirred  by  them^ 
When  the  hero  of  Tennyson's  Maud  soliloquises  over 

this  expression  is  precisely  the  most  exquisite  bit  in  the  picture.  Can 
plain  falsehood  then  be  trul)'  poetic  and  beautiful  ?  Many  people  will 
reply  'certainly,'  believing  that  poetry  is  essentially  pleasing  by  the 
number  of  pretty  falsehoods  told  or  suggested.  I  believe  with  Mr  Ruskin 
that  poetry  is  only  good  in  proportion  to  its  truth.  Now  we  must  first 
inquire  what  the  poet  is  here  intending  to  describe.  If  a  scientific  man 
were  to  explain  to  us  the  nature  of  foam  by  telling  us  that  it  is  a  wayward 
and  indolent  thing,  this  would  clearly  be  a  falsehood.  But  does  the  poet 
profess  to  explain  what  the  man  of  science  would  profess  to  explain,  or 
something  else  ?  What  are  the  physical  laws  according  to  which  water 
becomes  foam,  and  foam  falls  along  the  back  of  a  wave — that  is  one 
question ;  and  what  impression  does  this  condition  of  things  produce 
upon  a  mind  that  observes  closely,  and  feels  with  exquisite  delicacy  of 
sense  the  beauty  of  the  movement  of  the  foam,  and  its  subtle  relation  to 
other  material  things,  as  well  as  to  certain  analogues  in  the  sphere  of 
spirit,  to  functions  and  states  of  the  human  spirit — this  is  a  totally 
different  question.  I  submit  that  the  office  of  the  poet  in  this  connection 
is  to  answer  the  latter  question,  and  that  of  the  scientific  man  to  answer  the 
former.  But  observe  that  this  is  not  granting  license  of  scientific  ignorance 
or  wanton  inaccuracy  to  the  poet  which  some  critics  are  disposed  to 
grant"  (C>«  the  Poetic  Interpretation  of  Nature,  in  Wordsworthiana,  ed. 
William  Knight ;  reprinted  in  Essays  on  Poetry  and  Poets).  The  fault 
to  be  found  with  Holmes'  description  of  the  crocus  as  "spendthrift," 
therefore,  is  not  that  it  imputes  a  human  characteristic  to  the  flower, 
but  that  it  imputes  the  wrong  characteristic,  and  thus,  through  inac- 
curacy, arouses  false  feeling  in  regard  to  it. 


no  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

the  tiny  shell  which  he  picks  up  on  the  Breton 
coast  : — 

"  See  what  a  lovely  shell. 

Small  and  pure  as  a  pearl, 

Lying  close  at  my  foot, 

Frail,  but  a  work  divine. 

Made  so  fairily  well 

With  delicate  spire  and  whorl. 

How  exquisitely  minute, 

A  miracle  of  design  "  ; 

he  gives  us  for  the  moment  nothing  beyond  careful 
observation  and  appropriate  feeling.  But  when  his 
imagination  begins  to  play  about  it  and  its  history, 
and  he  continues  : — 

"  The  tiny  shell  is  forlorn, 
Void  of  the  little  living  will 
That  made  it  stir  on  the  shore. 
Did  he  stand  at  the  diamond  door 
Of  his  house  in  a  rainbow  frill  ? 
Did  he  push,  when  he  was  uncurl'd, 
A  golden  foot  or  a  fairy  horn 
Thro'  his  dim  water-world  ? " — 

we  see  that  he  is  drawing,  in  part  upon  knowledge 
furnished  by  science  to  complete  that  given  by  obser- 
vation. Herbert  Spencer,  writing  as  a  scientist,  tells 
us  how  much  more  the  geologist  can  find  in  a  highland 
glen  than  can  ever  be  found  there  by  deer-stalker  or 
ordinary  tourist.  "  He,  observing  that  the  glacier- 
rounded  rock  he  sits  on  has  lost  by  weathering  but 
half  an  inch  of  its  surface  since  a  time  far  more  remote 
then  the  beginnings  of  human  civilisation,  and  then 
trying  to  conceive  the  slow  denudation  which  has  cut 
out  the  whole  valley,  has  thoughts  of  time  and  power 
to  which  they  are  strangers — thoughts  which,  already 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  in 

Utterly  inadequate  to  their  objects,  he  feels  to  be  still 
more  futile  on  noting  the  contorted  beds  of  gneiss 
around,  which  tell  him  of  a  time  immeasurably  more 
remote,  when  far  beneath  the  earth's  surface  they  were 
in  a  half-melted  state,  and  again  tell  him  of  a  time, 
immensely  exceeding  this  in  remoteness,  when  their 
components  were  sand  and  mud  on  the  shores  of  an 
ancient  sea."  ^  Here  in  the  mind  of  the  scientist 
himself  we  have  the  mood  of  wonder  arising  from  con- 
templation of  the  facts  which  science  has  brought  to 
light — a  mood,  it  is  manifest,  closely  akin  to  the  mood 
of  poetry.  It  is  by  contemplation  of  the  same  facts 
that  Tennyson  is  inspired  to  write  : — 

"  There  rolls  the  deep  where  grew  the  tree. 
O  earth,  what  changes  hast  thou  seen  ! 
There  where  the  long  street  roars,  hath  been 
The  stillness  of  the  central  sea. 

The  hills  are  shadows,  and  they  flow 
From  form  to  form,  and  nothing  stands  ; 
They  melt  like  mist,  the  solid  lands. 

Like  clouds  they  shape  themselves  and  go."  ^ 

In  this  case,  it  is  evident,  the  poet  is  not  thinking 
about  the  ordinary  appearances  of  nature.  He  is 
thinking  about  what  science  has  told  him  of  the  evolu- 
tion of  the  world.  His  interpretation  of  nature  is 
thus  illuminated  and  transformed  by  science.  Indeed, 
with  a  boldness  possible  only  to  one  who  has  read  the 
geologic  record,  he  sets  appearances  at  nought  so 
completely  that  in  his  hands  the  hills  become  mere 
fleeting  shadows — those  everlasting  hills  which  from 
time    immemorial    have    been    for    men    who   judge 

"^  Ecclesiastical  Institutions,  §  660.  '^  In  Memoriam,  %  123. 


112  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

by  appearances  alone  the  pillars  of  the  universe  and 
the  very  symbols  of  eternity. 

Thus  Wordsworth  has  the  best  of  grounds  for 
declaring  that  "  the  objects  of  the  poet's  thoughts  are 
everywhere,"  and  that  "  though  the  eyes  and  senses  of 
man  are,  it  is  true,  his  favourite  guides,  yet  he  will 
follow  wherever  he  can  find  an  atmosphere  of  sensation 
in  which  to  move  his  wings."  ^  It  may  indeed  be  said 
that,  as  a  really  great  poet  is,  of  necessity,  a  great 
thinker — a  point  we  shall  have  to  return  to  presently 
— he  can  hardly  fail  to  be  interested  in  and  influenced 
by,  if  not  the  separate  discoveries  and  controversies  of 
science,  at  any  rate  the  large  movements  in  thought 
to  which  these  give  rise.  The  new  knowledge  of  the 
time,  with  all  the  changes  which  it  brings  about  in 
men's  inherited  beliefs  and  traditional  views  of  the 
cosmic  order  and  their  relations  with  it,  and  all  the 
fresh  problems  and  speculations  which  it  everywhere 
thrusts  to  the  fore,  must  have  an  irresistible  fascination 
for  him  on  their  emotional  and  spiritual  sides.  Their 
bearings  for  good  or  evil  upon  the  cherished  hopes 
and  aspirations  of  the  world  will  almost  inevitably 
force  themselves  upon  his  attention  ;  and  even  if  he 
does  not  make  them  the  subjects  of  direct  considera- 
tion, they  are  certain  in  countless  subtle  ways  to  enter 
into  and  colour  the  texture  of  his  verse,  as  they  enter 
into  and  colour  the  current  thought  of  his  age.  So 
far  from  its  being  true,  therefore,  that  the  poet  has 
nothing  to  do  with  the  scientific  knowledge  of  things, 
it  may  rather  be  maintained  that  the  wider  issues  of 
that  knowledge  can  never  be  entirely  ignored  by  him  ; 
while  if  he  be  a  poet  of  the  philosophic  class,  he  will 

1  Preface  to  second  edition  of  Lyrical  Ballads. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETHY  113 

find  himself  specially  tasked  to  challenge  it  in  its 
relation  with  every  question  and  interest  belonging 
to  the  higher  life  of  man.  In  an  era  of  rapidly 
accumulating  scientific  discoveries  and  vast  and  far- 
reaching  intellectual  change,  like  our  own,  we  must 
expect  to  encounter  a  certain  amount  of  antagonism 
between  science  and  poetry,  in  the  same  way  and  for 
the  same  reason  as  we  must  expect  to  encounter  a 
certain  amount  of  antagonism  between  science  and 
religion.  In  the  development  of  thought  the  feelings 
can  never  quite  keep  pace  with  the  intellect ;  ^  and, 
as  a  -result  of  this,  the  poet  is,  in  the  average  of  cases, 
conservative  ;  he  clings  by  preference  to  what  is  old 
and  familiar ;  he  is  commonly  repelled  by  what  is 
new  and  strange.  Hence,  the  spiritual  unrest,  the 
uncertainties,  the  struggles  and  doubts  and  pessimism, 
which  were  so  marked  among  the  characteristics  of 
our  Victorian  poetry.  The  emotionalisation  of  know- 
ledge is  inevitably  a  slow  and  gradual  process  ;  but 
meanwhile,  one  measure  of  a  poet's  greatness  as  a 
thinker  is  his  ability  to  perceive  the  possibility  of  it,  and 
by  his  insight  into  the  spiritual  meanings  of  scientific 
fact,  to  point  forward  and  help  in  its  accomplishment. 
It  is  an  important  implication  of  the  high  concep- 
tion of  poetic  truth  which  we  have  now 
reached,  that  the  poet  who  is  a  philosopher  Aspect  of 
no  less  than  the  philosopher  who  is  not  a  ^oe*ic 
poet  must  be  held  responsible  in  the  fullest 
degree  for  the  soundness  of  the  foundations  upon 
which  he  builds  his  arguments  and  rests  his  conclu- 
sions. The  widest  margin  may  be  allowed  to  every 
poet  for  the  play  of  his  imagination  so  long  as  his 

^  See  W.  K.  Clifford's  essay  on  Cosmic  Emotion, 
H 


114  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

purpose  is  only  to  delight  by  the  creation  of  beauty. 
But  the  moment  he  enters  upon  the  work  of  a  teacher, 
we  demand  that  his  teachings  shall  satisfy  the  under- 
standing as  well  as  engage  the  fancy  and  touch  the 
heart.  The  application  of  this  principle  may  be  made 
clear  by  a  single  illustration. 

In  his  Gebir^  Landor  has  a  striking  passage  dealing 
with  the  old  notion  that  the  murmuring  of  a  sea-shell 
held  to  the  ear  is  the  reverberation  of  the  sea-waves, 
still  lingering  in  it : — 

"  But  I  have  sinuous  shells  of  pearly  hue 

Shake  one  and  it  awakens,  then  apply 
Its  polished  lips  to  your  attentive  ear, 
And  it  remembers  its  august  abodes, 
And  murmurs  as  the  ocean  murmurs  there." 

Wordsworth  in  turn  takes  up  the  same  pretty  notion 
(indeed,  Landor  complained  that  he  stole  his  shell), 
and  this  is  the  use  to  which  he  puts  it : — 

"  I  have  seen 
A  curious  child,  who  dwelt  upon  a  tract 
Of  inland  ground,  applying  to  his  ear 
The  convolutions  of  a  smooth-lipped  shell ; 
To  which,  in  silence  hushed,  his  very  soul 
Listened  intensely  ;  and  his  countenance  soon 
Brightened  with  joy  ;  for  from  within  were  heard 
Murmurings,  whereby  the  monitor  expressed 
Mysterious  union  with  its  native  sea. 
Even  such  a  shell  the  universe  itself 
Is  to  the  ear  of  Faith  ;  and  there  are  times, 
I  doubt  not,  when  to  you  it  doth  impart 
Authentic  tidings  of  invisible  things  ; 
Of  ebb  and  flow,  and  ever-during  power ; 
And  central  peace,  subsisting  at  the  heart 
Of  endless  agitation."  ^ 

^  The  Excursion.  Book  iv. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETEY  115 

Now  it  is  evident  that  there  is  a  very  important 
difference  between  Lander's  treatment  of  the  sea- 
shell's  murmur  and  Wordsworth's.  Landor  employs 
it  only  as  what  Arnold  would  call  "  a  play  of  fancy,"  ^ 
and  as  such  it  is  excellent.  Wordsworth  presses  it 
into  the  service  of  a  transcendental  philosophy,  and 
since,  as  everybody  knows,  the  alleged  fact  is  not  a 
real  fact,  the  use  of  it  for  such  a  purpose  only  serves 
to  make  the  philosophy  itself  seem  unreal.  Then  a 
third  poet,  Mr  Eugene  Lee- Hamilton  appears,  and, 
starting  from  Wordsworth's  parallelism  between  the 
sea-shell  and  the  universe,  boldly  turns  the  argument 
upon  the  transcendentalist  himself  by  contending  that 
what  is  demonstrably  illusion  in  the  one  case  is 
unquestionably  illusion  also  in  the  other : — 

"  The  hollow  sea-shell  which  for  years  hath  stood 
On  dusty  shelves,  when  held  against  the  ear 
Proclaims  its  stormy  parent ;  and  we  hear 

The  faint  far  murmur  of  the  breaking  flood. 

We  hear  the  sea.    The  sea .''     It  is  the  blood 
In  our  own  veins,  impetuous  and  near, 
And  pulses  keeping  pace  with  hope  and  fear 

And  with  our  feelings'  ever-shifting  mood. 

Lo  !  in  my  heart  I  hear,  as  in  a  shell, 

The  murmur  of  a  world  beyond  the  grave, 
Distinct,  distinct,  though  faint  and  far  it  be. 

Thou  fool !  this  echo  is  a  cheat  as  well, — 

The  hum  of  earthly  instincts  ;  and  we  crave 
A  world  unreal  as  the  shell-heard  sea." 

^  Arnold  describes  the  idea  which  forms  the  core  of  the  Ode  on  the 

Intimations  of  l7nmo7'tality  as  an  idea  "  of  undeniable  beauty  as  a  play  of 

■fancy,"  but  as  one  which  has  not  "the  character  of  poetic  truth  of  the 

best  kind  ;  it  has  no  real  solidity  "  {Essay  on  Wordsworth).     But  on  this 

special  point,  see  Wordsworth's  own  introductory  note  to  the  poem. 


ii6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEKATURE 

We  are  not  now  called  upon  to  inquire  into  the 
general  value  of  Wordsworth's  transcendentalism,  or 
of  Lee-Hamilton's  reply.  We  have  only  to  insist  that, 
so  far  as  this  particular  case  of  the  sea-shell  is  con- 
cerned, Lee-Hamilton  is  right,  because  he  deals  with  the 
known  fact  of  the  matter,  and  Wordsworth  wrong,  be- 
cause he  gives  us  merely  a  bit  of  pleasing  fancy.  And 
the  poet  who  assumes  the  r61e  of  teacher  of  philosophic 
truth  must  not  invoke  fancy  to  do  the  work  of  fact. 

We  need  not  here  enter  into  any  further  discussion 
of  poetic  truth.  Its  general  nature  is  now  clear.  In 
some  curiously  wild  and  whirling  words,  Macaulay 
once  spoke  of  the  truth  that  "  is  essential  to  poetry  " 
as  the  "  truth  of  madness ",  and  went  on  to  declare 
that  in  poetry,  though  ''  the  reasonings  are  just ",  the 
"  premises  are  false ",  and  that  their  acceptance  "  re- 
quires a  degree  of  credulity  which  almost  amounts  to 
a  partial  derangement  of  the  intellect."  ^  No  more 
glaringly  absurd  conception  of  poetry  has  ever  been 
suggested  by  a  critic  of  any  pretensions  ;  Mr  Gradgrind 
himself  could  hardly  have  improved  upon  it  as  an 
expression  of  utter  Philistinism.  Poetic  truth  is  em- 
phatically not  the  '^  truth  of  madness."  It  has,  on 
the  contrary,  and  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  term,  the 
essential  quality  of  sanity.  It  is  the  truth  of  things 
as  seen,  indeed,  from  a  point  of  view  different  from 
that  of  science ;  and  it  is  this  fact  which  misled 
Macaulay  into  his  strange  vagaries  concern- 
Corapie-  ^"g  it-  But  as  we  can  never  learn  the  whole 
ment  of  truth  of  things  until  this  other  point  of  view 
has  been  taken — as  to  know  things  in  their 
entirety  means  to  know  them  in  their  poetic  as  well 

^  Essay  on  Milton, 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  117 

as  in  their  scientific  aspects  and  meanings — 
the  truth  of  poetry  while  antithetical  to  that  of 
science,  is  at  the  same  time,  as  I  have  shewn,  com- 
plementary to  it  ;  and  it  has  at  least  an  equal 
importance. 

Thus,  as  Leigh  Hunt  says,  to  the  poet  "  truth  of 
every  kind  belongs  .  .  .  provided  it  can  bud  into 
any  kind  of  beauty,  or  is  capable  of  being  illustrated 
and  impressed  by  the  poetic  faculty."^  Or,  as 
Principal  Shairp  put  it : — "  There  is  no  truth  cognis- 
able by  man  which  may  not  shape  itself  into  poetry. 
It  matters  not  whether  it  be  a  vision  of  nature's  on- 
goings, or  a  conception  of  the  understanding,  or  some 
human  incident,  or  some  truth  of  the  affections,  or 
some  moral  sentiment,  or  some  glimpse  of  the  spiritual 
world  ;  any  one  of  these  may  be  so  realised  as  to  \ 
become  fit  subjects  for  poetic  utterance.  Only  in 
order  that  it  should  be  so,  it  is  necessary  that  the 
object,  whatever  it  is,  should  cease  to  be  a  merely 
sensible  object,  or  a  mere  notion  of  the  understanding, 
and  pass  inward, — pass  out  of  the  coldness  of  the 
merely  notional  region  into  the  warm  atmosphere  of 
the  life-giving  imagination.  Vitalised  there,  the  truth 
shapes  itself  into  living  images  which  kindle  the 
passion  and  affections,  and  stimulate  the  whole  man. 
This  is  what  has  been  called  the  real  apprehension 
of  truths,  as  opposed  to  the  merely  notional  assent 
to  them."  2  And  this  shows  that  poetic  truth  has 
a  human  value  to  which  scientific  truth  cannot 
possibly  lay  claim. 

^  Imagination  and  Fancy. 

2  On  Poetic  Interpretation  of  Nature^  pp.  19,  20. 


ii8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

III 

We  are  now  in  a  position  to  appreciate  the  rela- 
Poetry  and  tions  of  poetry  to  life,  and  the  large  part 
^if®-  that  it   has   to   play  in   that   comprehensive 

cultivation  of  all  our  faculties  by  which  alone  we  can 
ever  get  out  of  life  all  that  it  has  to  afford. 

One  chief  element  of  poetry  is  its  revealing  power. 
The  Reveal- ^^  Opens  our  eyes  to  sensuous  beauties  and 
ing  Power  spiritual  meanings  in  the  worlds  of  human 
of  Poetry,  experience  and  of  nature  to  which  otherwise 
we  should  remain  blind.  There  are  few  of  us  who 
have  not  some  endowment  of  poetic  insight  and  feel- 
ing, some  measure  of  "  the  vision  and  the  faculty 
divine."  But  in  the  large  majority  of  cases  such 
poetic  capacity  as  we  possess,  slight  as  it  probably  is 
at  the  best,  is  cramped  by  the  ordinary  conditions  of 
existence,  crippled  by  the  mere  material  interests 
which  fill  so  vast  a  place  in  our  daily  routine,  and 
sometimes,  even  consciously  or  unconsciously  re- 
pressed. The  true  poet,  whatever  his  range  and 
quality,  is  one  in  whom  the  power  of  seeing  and 
feeling  the  sensuous  beauty  and  spiritual  meaning  of 
things  exists  in  a  pre-eminent  degree,  and  to  whom, 
moreover,  another  special  power  has  been  granted — 
the  power  of  so  expressing  and  interpreting  what  he 
sees  and  feels  as  to  quicken  our  own  imaginations  and 
sympathies,  and  to  make  us  see  and  feel  with  him. 
Thus  one  great  service  that  the  poet  renders  to  us  is 
that  of  "awakening  the  mind's  attention  to  the 
lethargy  of  custom,  and  directing  it  to  the  loveliness 
and  wonders  of  the  world  before  us  ;  an  inexhaustible 
treasure,  but  for  which,  in  consequence  of  the  film  of 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  119 

familiarity  and  selfish  solicitude,  we  have  eyes,  yet  see 
not,  ears  that  hear  not,  and  hearts  that  neither  feel 
nor  understand."  ^  This  is  why  Browning  calls  poets 
the  "  makers-see  ",  and  why  Carlyle  writes  of  them  as 
"gifted  to  discern  the  god-like  mysteries  of  God's 
universe "  ;  and  this  is  why  we  may  describe  every 
true  poet,  as  Arnold  once  described  Wordsworth,  as 
"a  priest  to  us  all  of  the  wonder  and  bloom  of  the 
world."  How  much  we  need  the  poet's  help,  how 
greatly  we  are^  benefited  by  it,  a  moment's  thought 
will  show.  For,  as  Browning  puts  it,  speaking  through 
the  mouth  of  his  Fra  Lippo  Lippi — 

"  For,  don't  you  mark  ?  we're  made  so  that  we  love 
First  when  we  see  them  painted,  things  we  have  pass'd 
Perhaps  a  hundred  times,  nor  cared  to  see  ; 
And  so  they  are  better,  painted — better  to  us, 
Which  is  the  same  thing.     Art  was  given  for  that." 

This  is  a  painter's  noble  apologia  for  his  own  art. 
Manifestly,  the  poet  might  quite  as  justly  say  as  much 
for  his.  Poetry,  too,  was  given  for  that ;  and  in 
carrying  out  this  great  purpose,  let  us  never  forget, 
while  it  helps  us  directly  by  revealing  fresh  beauty 
and  unsuspected  significance  in  the  actual  things  with 
which  it  deals,  it  does  at  the  same  time  something 
more  than  this.  It  educates  us  to  look  at  life  for 
ourselves  with  more  of  a  poet's  insight  and  power  of 
comprehension ;  it  strengthens  our  own  vision  and 
sympathies  ;  and  thus  it  develops  within  us  the  latent 
faculty  of  poetic  interpretation. 

Poetry,  therefore,  covers  our  relations  with  life  at 
almost  every  point,  appeals  to  nearly  all  our  moods 
and  finds  its  subject-matter  in  whatever,  rightly  treated, 

^  Coleridge,  Biographia  Liierarta,  chap.  xiv. 


120  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

will  yield  poetic  beauty  and  meaning.  Thus  every 
•me  kind    of   poetry  —  even    the    poetry    which 

Ultimate  touches  things  intrinsically  trivial  with  the 
standard  of  °  "^ 

Greatness  charm  which  it  is  its  special  function  to  give 
in  Poetry  — j^^^g  j^-g  efficacy  and  justification.  Yet,  if 
poetry  be  an  interpretation  of  life  through  the 
imagination  and  the  feelings,  its  essential  greatness 
must  ultimately  be  judged  by  the  greatness  of  the 
power  with  which  it  handles  life's  greatest  and  most 
abiding  things — the  things  which  belong  to  our 
highest  experiences  and  interests.  Since  poetry  is  an 
art,  it  must,  it  is  true,  be  estimated  also  with  respect 
to  its  purely  artistic  or  technical  features.  But  this 
consideration  must  not  blind  us  to  the  fact  that 
poetic  art  is  after  all  an  embodiment  of  spirit  and  a 
vehicle  of  thought  and  feeling,  and  that  it  is  from  the 
character  of  the  spirit,  thought,  and  feeling  which  it 
expresses  that  it  derives  its  substantial  value.  This 
does  not  involve  any  denial  of  the  proposition  that  the 
immediate  object  of  poetry,  as  of  all  oth^r  forms  of 
art,  is  to  give  pleasure.  It  simply  means  that  the 
quality  of  the  pleasure  itself  must  depend  upon  the 
nature  of  the  subject-matter  and  the  manner  in  which 
it  is  presented.  From  time  to  time  we  hear  more 
than  enough  of  "  art  for  art's  sake."  But  this  vague 
and  shadowy  doctrine  is,  so  far  as  the  art  of  poetry  is 
concerned,  brought  into  contempt  by  the  rank  and 
standing  of  those  who  inculcate  it ;  for  it  is  for  the 
most  part  associated  with  minor  poets  and  dilettante 
critics.  The  really  great  poets  of  the  world  have 
never  taken  any  account  of  it.^      One  and  all,  they 

^  Save  indeed  when,  like  Tennyson,  they  have  distinctly  repudiated  it. 
See  Memoir f  ii.  92. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETEY  121 

have    been     substantial     men.     They     have     always 
recognised  that  poetry  is   made  out  of    life,  belongs 
to    life,  exists    for    life.     On    this    primary   principle 
they    have    done     their    work  ;     and    it    is    by    their 
grasp    of    life    and     power    of    interpreting    it    that 
their  greatness  may  in  large   measure   be  explained. 
We  can   thus   go   every   step   with   Matthew   Arnold 
when  he  writes  : — "  It  is  important,  therefore,  to  hold  I 
fast  to  this  :  that  poetry  is  at  bottom  a  criticism  of  / 
life ;  that  the  greatness  of  a  poet  lies  in  his  powerful  / 
and    beautiful    application    of   ideas    to   life — to    the  • 
question  :  How  to  live.      Morals  are  often  treated  in  ; 
a  narrow  and  false  fashion ;  they  are  bound  up  with  * 
systems  of  thought  and  belief  which  have  had  their 
day;  they  are  fallen  into  the  hands  of  pedants  and 
professional  dealers  ;  they  grow  tiresome  to  some  of 
us.     We  find  attraction,  at  times,  even  in  a  poetry  of 
revolt  against  them  ;    in  a  poetry  which  might  take 
for  its  motto  Omar  Khayyam's  words  :  *  Let  us  make 
up  in  the  tavern  for  the  time  we  have  wasted  in  the 
mosque.'     Or  we  find  attractions  in  a  poetry  indifferent 
to  them  ;  in  a  poetry  where  the  contents  may  be  what 
they  will,  but  where  the  form  is  studied  and  exquisite. 
We  delude  ourselves  in  either  case  ;  and  the  best  cure 
for  our  delusion  is  to  let  our  minds  rest  upon  the  great 
and  inexhaustible  word  life,  until  we  learn  to  enter  into 
its  meaning.     A  poetry  of  revolt  against  moral  ideas 
is  a  poetry  of  revolt  against  life ;  a  poetry  of  indiffer- 
ence towards  moral  ideas  is  a  poetry  of  indifference 
towards  lifeP^ 

We   need   not,  therefore,  be   afraid   of  laying    the 
utmost   stress    upon    the  nature  of   a    poet's  subject- 

^  Essay  on  Wordsworth,  in  Essays  in  Criticism,  second  series. 


122  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

matter,  his  powers  of  thought,  his  moral  strength  and 
influence.  "  No  man  was  ever  yet  a  great  poet ",  says 
Coleridge,  "without  being  at  the  same  time  a  pro- 
found philosopher."^  "  The  great  poets",  says  Emerson, 
in  one  of  his  penetrating  apothegms,  "  are  judged  by 
the  frame  of  mind  they  induce."  ^  *'  We  may  ",  says 
Landor,  "  write  little  things  well,  and  accumulate  one 
upon  another,  but  never  will  any  be  justly  called  a 
great  poet  unless  he  has  treated  a  great  subject 
worthily.  He  may  be  the  poet  of  the  lover  and  the 
idler,  he  may  be  the  poet  of  green  fields  or  gay 
society ;  but  whoever  is  this  can  be  no  more.  A 
throne  is  not  built  of  birds'  nests,  nor  do  a  thousand 
reeds  make  a  trumpet."  ^  And  again  : — "  A  pretty 
sonnet  may  be  written  on  a  lambkin  or  on  a  parsnip, 
there  being  room  enough  for  truth  and  tenderness  on 
the  edge  of  a  leaf  or  the  tip  of  an  ear ;  but  a  great 
poet  must  clasp  the  higher  passions  breast  high,  and 
compel  them  in  an  authoritative  tone  to  answer  his 
interrogatories."  * 

I  am  not  asserting  that  in  order  to  fulfil  the  con- 
Didac-  ditions  of  poetic  greatness  a  poet  must  of 
ticism  in  necessity  address  himself  to  the  direct  com- 
°®  ^*  munication  of  ideas,  or  even  write  with  a 
conscious  ethical  aim.  We  are  not  to  confuse  the 
functions  of  the  poet  with  those  of  the  preacher 
or  homilist  ;  their  business  is  to  instruct  and  guide, 
his  to  stir  and  vivify,  to  inspire,  energise,  and  delight. 
This  vital  distinction  is  indeed  implied  in  everything 
that  has  been  said  about  the  specific  characteristics 
of  that  interpretation  of  life  which  poetry  affords  ;  and 

^  Biographia  Literaria,  chap,  xv  ^  Preface  to  Parnassus. 

'  The  Peniamerony  iv,  *  Ibid. ,  ii. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  123 

too  much  weight  can  hardly  be  attached  to  it.     On  the 
other  hand,  however,  the  horror  which  critics  of  the  so- 
called  aesthetic  school  continually  express  of  any  poetry 
which  deals  with  ideas  and  is  written  with  a  conscious 
ethical  aim,  is  entirely  without  warrant.     With  much 
that  they  urge  against  didacticism  in  art  we  may,  it  is 
true,  cordially  agree  ;  but  we  must  not  be   misled  by 
them  into  an  unqualified  condemnation  of  it.     When 
Browning  says — "  Philosophy  first,  and  poetry,  which  is 
its  highest  outcome,  afterwards  "  ;  ^  and  when  Lowell  ( 
says — "  No  poem   ever  makes  me  respect  its  author 
which  does  not  in  some  way   convey  a  truth  of  phil- 
osophy "  2 — we  feel  that  in  these  utterances  the  scope  j 
and  powers  of  poetry  are  unduly  circumscribed.      But  \ 
there  is  no  reason  why  poetry  should  not  be  the   out-  \ 
come  of  philosophy  and  the   vehicle    of   philosophic 
truth    without    sacrificing    anything    of   its    essential 
poetic  qualities  and  graces.     The  real  objection  to  so 
much  that  passes  as  didactic  poetry  is  not  that  it  is 
didactic,  but  that  it  is  not  poetry.      Nevertheless,  there 
is  no  inevitable  antagonism  between  the  didactic  and 
the  poetical.      It  all  depends  upon  the  poet.     Take, 
for    example,  the   work   of  Wordsworth,  who,  as  we 
remember,  wished  to  be  "  considered  as  a  teacher  or  as 
nothing."      "In    deserts    of    preaching ",    says    Lord 
Morley, "  we  find   almost  within  sight  of  one  another, 
delightful  oases  of  the  purest  poetry."  ^     But  examina- 
tion shows  that  in  his  passages  of  '*  purest  poetry  " 
Wordsworth  is  often  quite  as  much  occupied  with  ideas 
as  in  his  passages  of  flat  prosaic  preaching.      It  is  not, 

1  In  a  letter  to  Professor  William  Knight.  "^  Letters ^  i.  73. 

^  Introduction  to  Globe  edition  of   Wordsworth' s  Poetical   Works,  p. 
Ixiii. 


124  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

therefore,  the  presence  or  absence  of  ideas  which 
makes  all  the  difference  ;  it  is  the  difference  in  treat- 
ment which  counts.^  From  this  fact  we  learn  that 
we  have  no  just  ground  to  take  exception  to  a  poet's 
didacticism  ;  what  alone  really  calls  for  adverse 
criticism  is  his  inability  to  give  to  his  ideas  a  poetic 
form  and  setting.  We  do  not,  therefore,  quarrel  with 
any  poet  who  offers  us  philosophy  in  the  fashion  of 
poetry.  We  require  only  that  his  philosophy  shall 
be  transfigured  by  imagination  and  feeling  ;  that  it 
shall  be  shaped  into  a  thing  of  beauty  ;  that  it  shall  be 
wrought  into  true  poetic  expression  ;  and  that  thus  in 
reading  him  we  shall  always  be  keenly  aware  of  the 
difference  between  his  rendering  of  philosophic  truth 
and  any  mere  prose  statement  of  it.  These  conditions 
fulfilled,  we  welcome  the  poet  as  teacher  and  moralist, 
because  we  know  that  in  his  hands  the  truths  of  life  and 
conduct  will  acquire  a  higher  potency  and  value. 

In  concluding  this  brief  discussion  of  the  relations 
of  poetry  and  life  I  may,  therefore,  repeat  that  a  poet's 
greatness  must  ultimately  depend  upon  the  greatness 
of  his  subject-matter,  the  power  of  thought  which  he 
brings  to  bear  upon  it,  and  his  moral  strength  and 
influence.  And  if  it  should  be  objected  that  in  putting 
the  matter  in  this  way  I  am  over-stating  the  ethical 
side  of  poetry,  I  will  reply  by  quoting  the  testimony 
of  one  who  among  our  modern  English  critics  stands 
out  conspicuously  as  a  supporter  of  the  claims  of  art. 
"  It  is ",  says  Walter  Pater,  "  on  the  quality  of  the 

1  The  reader  can  test  this  for  himself  by  comparing  the  passage  cited  by 
Arnold  in  his  essay  on  Wordsworth,  as  an  example  of  that  poet's  too 
frequent  prosaic  dulness,  with  the  superb  Lines  written  above  Tintern 
Abbey y  in  which  far  more  profound  philosophic  thought  is  embodied  in 
poetry  of  the  purest  kind. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  125 

matter  it  informs  or  controls,  its  compass,  its  variety, 
its  alliance  to  great  ends,  or  the  depth  of  the  note  of 
revolt,  or  the  largeness  of  hope  in  it,  that  the  greatness 
of  literary  art  depends,  as  The  Divine  Comedy, 
Paradise  Lost,  Les  Miserables,  The  English  Bible  are 
great  art."^ 

In  the  study  of  poetry,  therefore,  as  in  the  study  of 
all  other  kinds  of  literature,  our  attention  must  first 
be  directed  to  the  poet  himself ;  to  his  personality  and 
outlook  upon  the  world  ;  to  the  interpretation  of  life 
expressly  given  by  or  held  in  solution  in  his  work  ; 
to  the  individual  note  in  it.  However  deeply  we  may 
presently  become  interested  in  questions  of  art  and 
form,  origins  and  historical  affiliations,  these  primary 
aspects  of  poetry  must  never  be  permitted  to  slip  out 
of  our  sight. 

IV 

As  a  guide  to  the  systematic  study  of  our  subject, 
we  have  next  to  pass  under  rapid  review  the  principal 
kinds  of  poetry. 

In  a  broad  way,  poetry  may  be  divided  into  two 
classes.     There  is   the  poetry  in  which  the   ^  „ 

The  Two 

poet  goes  down   into  himself  and  finds  his    Great 
inspiration  and  his  subjects  in  his  own  ex-    ^3^^^??! 
periences,  thoughts,  and  feelings.     There  is  the 
poetry  in  which  the  poet  goes  out  of  himself,  mingles 
with  the  action  and  passion  of  the  world  without,  and 
deals  with  what  he  discovers  there  with  little  reference 
to  his  own  individuality.      The  former  class  we  may 
call    personal  or  subjective  poetry,  or    the  poetry  of 
self-delineation   and    self-expression.      The    latter  we 

1  Appreciations,  p.  36. 


126  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

may  call  impersonal  or  objective  poetry,  or  the  poetry 
of  representation  or  creation.  The  boundary-lines 
between  these  two  divisions  cannot  of  course  be  drawn 
with  absolute  precision,  and  in  much  poetry,  especially 
in  our  extremely  composite  modern  poetry,  personal  and 
impersonal  elements  continually  combine.  But  the  dis- 
tinction none  the  less  rests  on  a  firm  foundation  of  fact, 
and  for  purposes  of  classification  it  is  undeniably  useful. 

We  may  begin  with  personal  or  subjective  poetry, 
Subjective  to  which,  rather  loosely,  the  name  lyrical  is 
Poetry.  often  also  applied.  Lyric  poetry,  in  the  original 
meaning  of  the  term,  was  poetry  composed  to  be 
sung  to  the  accompaniment  of  lyre  or  harp.  In  this 
sense,  much  poetry  belonging  to  the  impersonal 
division — like  the  old  ballads  and  even  early  epics — 
might  strictly  speaking  be  described  as  lyrical.  But 
the  use  of  "  lyrical "  will  be  restricted  here  to  the 
simpler  forms  of  the  poetry  in  which,  in  contradistinc- 
tion to  the  epic  and  dramatic  kinds,  the  poet  is 
principally  occupied  with  himself 

In  such  simpler  forms  this  personal  poetry  is  almost 
Its  Simpler  unlimited  in  range  and  variety,  for  it  may 
Forms.  touch  nearly  all  aspects  of  experience,  from 
those  which  are  most  narrowly  individual  to  those 
which  involve  the  broadest  interests  of  our  common 
humanity.  Thus  we  have  the  convivial  or  bacchanalian 
lyric  ;  the  lyric  which  skims  the  lighter  things  of  life, 
as  in  the  so-called  vers  de  societe\  the  lyric  of  love 
in  all  its  phases,  and  with  all  its  attendant  hopes  and 
longings,  joys  and  sorrows  ;  the  lyric  of  patriotism  ; 
the  lyric  of  religious  emotion ;  and  countless  other 
kinds  which  it  is  unecessary  to  attempt  to  tabulate. 

In     our    study    of    any    lyric    certain    elementary 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  127 

principles  of  valuation  should  always  be  kept  in  view. 
We  must  inquire  into  the  character  and  quality  of  the 
emotion  which  inspires  it  and  the  manner  in  which 
that  emotion  is  rendered  ;  for  a  lyric,  to  be  good  of 
its  kind,  must  satisfy  us  that  it  embodies  a  worthy 
feeling ;  it  must  impress  us  by  the  convincing  sincerity 
of  its  utterance ;  while  its  language  and  imagery  must 
be  characterised  not  only  by  beauty  and  vividness,  but 
also  by  propriety,  or  the  harmony  which  in  all  art  is 
required  between  the  subject  and  its  medium.  It  will 
also  be  found  that  the  pure  lyric,  having  for  its 
purpose  the  expression  of  some  single  mood  or  feel- 
ing, commonly  gains  much  in  emotional  power  by 
brevity  and  condensation,  and  that  over-elaboration  is 
almost  certain  to  entail  loss  in  effectiveness. 

Though  the  essence  of  lyrical  poetry  is  personality, 
:t  must  yet  be  remembered  that  the  majority  of  the 
world's  great  lyrics  owe  their  place  in  literature  very 
largely  to  the  fact  that  they  embody  what  is  typically 
human  rather  than  what  is  merely  individual  and 
particular,  and  that  thus  every  reader  finds  in  them  the 
expression  of  experiences  and  feelings  in  which  he 
himself  is  fully  able  to  share.  In  such  cases  we  do 
not  have  to  put  ourselves  in  the  poet's  place  because 
he  has  already  put  himself  into  ours.  Moreover,  there 
is  much  lyrical  poetry  which  is  communal  rather  than 
personal  in  character.  Investigations  into  the  begin- 
nings of  literature  have  shown  that  poetry  originated 
in  the  desire  to  give  outward  form  to  the  feelings  not 
of  the  individual  but  of  the  clan  or  group.^  Hebrew 
lyrical  poetry  was  chiefly  of  this  kind.     "  The  awaken- 

1  See  Gummere's  Beginnings  of  Poetry  and   Posnett's   Comparativt 
Literature, 


128  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERA.TUEE 

ing  of  the  individual  consciousness  in  the  western 
nations  since  the  introduction  of  Christianity "  had, 
as  Canon  Cheyne  has  said,  "  no  parallel  in  the  Semitic 
east "  ;  and  though  the  old  Hebrew  was  a  magnificent 
egotist,  his  egotism  was  emphatically  that  of  race. 
Thus  the  "  I  "  and  "  me "  of  the  Psalms,  as  modern 
scholars  tell  us,  refer,  not  to  David  or  any  other 
individual  singer,  but  to  the  community  of  Israel,  with 
its  common  tribulations,  hopes,  contrition,  trust.  The 
immense  development  of  individuality  in  the  modern 
world  has  naturally  been  followed  by  an  increase  of 
the  personal  and  a  subsidence  of  the  communal  factor 
in  poetry.  Yet  group  -  consciousness  still  produces 
group-poetry ;  as  in  hymns  and  lyrics  of  patriotism. 
Of  such  group-poetry  the  chorus,  which  is  so  popular 
a  feature  of  many  songs,  is  also  an  interesting  survival. 
A  further  fact  of  importance  is  that  in  periods  when 
general  feelings  are  deeply  stirred,  and  men  are  lifted 
out  of  themselves  and  the  concerns  of  their  private 
lots,  the  communal  element  in  poetry  becomes  specially 
conspicuous.  Thus  Byron,  though  one  of  the  greatest 
egotists  of  our  literature,  and  our  fullest  exponent  of 
that  extreme  individualism  which  was  one  character- 
istic of  the  romantic  movement,  often  poured  into  his 
verse  the  world-passions  which  shook  all  Europe  in 
the  revolutionary  age.^ 

Personal  poetry  passes  by  insensible  degrees  from 

the  simpler  forms  of  "  lyric  "  into  meditative 
and  Phiio-  ^^^  philosophic  poetry,  in  which  the  element 
sopMcai      of   thought    becomes     important.      Here,    of 

course,  emotional  qualities  and  the  beauty, 
vividness,  and  propriety  of  language  and  imagery,  have 

^  See  Dowden's  7Vie  French  Revolution  and  English  Literattire, 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  129 

still  to    be  considered  ;  but  in  addition,  as   we  have 

already  shown  in  sufficient  detail,  the  substantial  value 

of  the  thought  itself  has  also  to  be  estimated,  together 

with  the  poet's  success  in  giving  it  a  poetic  rendering. 

Thus,  if  we  pass  adverse  judgment  on  Pope's  Essay  on 

Man,  it  is  not  only  because,  while  it  contains  many 

passages  of  brilliant  rhetoric,  it  is  on  the  whole  rather 

a  versified  treatise  than  a  poem,  but  also  because  its 

philosophy,  as  philosophy,  is  confused,  inconsistent,  and 

radically  unsound..     It  should  be  observed  that  there 

is  a  good  deal  of  poetry  which  is  didactic  in  intention 

but  narrative  in  form — poetry  in  which  the  truths  to 

be  conveyed  are  wrought  into  story,  parable,  or  allegory. 

This  poetry  is  of  course  commonly  classed  as  narrative, 

and  therefore  falls  into  the  objective  division  ;  but  we 

mention  it  here  on  account  of  the  purpose  by  which  it 

is  dominated.     A  poet  will  often  choose  such  indirect 

method  of  inculcating  his  ideas  because  in  this  way 

he  can  obtain  the  immense  advantage  of  translating 

abstract  ideas  into  concrete  forms.     Tennyson's  Palace 

of  Art  and  Vision  of  Sin  may  be  referred  to  as  popular 

illustrations. 

It  is  here  also  that  we  may  best  find  place  for  the 

Ode,   which  may  be    defined    as    "a    rimed    „,    ^^ 

The  Ode. 
(rarely  unrimed)  lyric,  often  in  the  form  of  an 

address  ;  generally  dignified  or  exalted  in  subject,  feel- 
ing, and  style  "  ;  ^  or  as  "  any  strain  of  enthusiastic  or 
exalted  lyrical  verse,  directed  to  a  fixed  purpose,  and 
dealing  progressively  with  a  dignified  theme."  ^  It 
will  be  seen  from  these  definitions  that  the  ode  is  not 
specifically  differentiated  by  any  one  constant  feature, 

^  New  English  Dictionary. 

2  Gosse,  English  Odes,  Introduction,  p.  xiii. 


I30  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

or  combination  of  features,  from  other  kinds  of 
lyric ;  ^  the  term  is,  in  fact,  an  elastic  and  most 
ambiguous  one  ;  and  there  has  always  been  in  conse- 
quence an  extreme  diversity  of  view  among  the  critics 
as  to  what  poems  shall  and  what  shall  not  be  included 
under  it.  In  addition  to  dignity  or  exaltation  of 
matter  and  manner  and  a  logical  evolution  of  thought, 
which  may  be  accepted  among  its  more  habitual  char- 
acteristics, it  is  generally,  though  it  would  seem  not 
necessarily,  marked  by  a  certain  amount  of  complexity 
and  elaboration  ;  it  has  often  something  of  the  quality 
of  a  poetical  oration  ;  while  often,  again,  it  is  inspired, 
like  Lowell's  Memorial  Poems,  by  some  great  public 
occasion.  In  structure,  it  may  be  regular,  like  Spenser's 
Epithalamion,  Collins's  Ode  to  Evening,  Shelley's  West 
Wind,  and  Keats's  Odes  To  a  Nightingale  and  On  a 
Grecian  Urn ;  or  irregular,  like  Dry  den's  Alexander's 
Feast,  Collins's  The  Passions,  Wordsworth's  Ode  on  the 
Intimations  of  Immortality,  and  Tennyson's  Ode  on  the 
Death  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington.  In  some  cases  a 
classic  form  is  taken  as  model ;  and  we  have 
imitations,  more  or  less  close,  of  the  "  Horatian  "  ode, 
so-called  ;  as  in  Jonson's  Ode  to  Himself  and  Marvell's 
Upon  Cromwell's  Return  from  Ireland  ]  or  of  the  choric 
odes  of  Pindar,  with  their  systematic  disposition  of 
parts  into  strophe,  antistrophe,  and  epode,  or,  in 
Jonson's  language,  turn,  counter-turn,  and  stand.^ 
Gray's  Pindaric  odes  are  probably  the  most  successful 

^  Among  the  Greeks,  Ode  was  used,  generally,  for  any  kind  of  lyrical 
composition,  from  the  drinking  songs  of  Anacreon  to  the  love  songs  of 
Sappho,  and  from  these  again  to  the  lofty  ''occasional"  poems  of 
Pindar. 

2  See  his  Ode  to  the  Immortal  Memory  and  Friendship  of  that  Noble 
Pair^  Sir  Lucius  Cory  and  Sir  Henry  Morison. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  131 

examples  in  English  of  the  latter  type.^  But  such 
poems  follow  their  model  in  appearance  only,  and  as 
the  original  choric  significance  of  the  divisions  no 
longer  exists,  they  are,  like  all  such  attempts  to  re- 
produce "an  ancient  form  through  which  the  spirit 
breathes  no  more,"  essentially  artificial  productions. 

We  come  next  to  one  of  the  most  important 
divisions  of  personal  poetry,  the  Elegy.  In 
its  simplest  form,  as  in  David's  Lament  for 
Saul  and  Jonathan^  Landor's  Rose  Aylmer^  and 
Tennyson's  "  Break,  break,  break,"  this  is  a  brief  lyric 
of  mourning,  or  direct  utterance  of  personal  bereave- 
ment and  sorrow.  Its  basis  is  manifestly,  therefore, 
absolute  sincerity  of  emotion  and  expression,  since  on 
the  slightest  hint  of  simulation  or  artifice  we  are 
prompted  to  turn  on  the  poet  with  the  warning  words 
of  Guiderius  to  Arviragus  : — 

"  Prithee,  have  done, 
And  do  not  play  in  wench-like  words  with  that 
Which  is  so  serious."  ^ 

In  the  evolution  of  literature,  however,  the  elegy  has 
undergone  great  elaboration,  and  has  expanded  in 
many  directions.  It  has  sometimes  become  the 
medium  of  communal  feeling;  as  in  the  five  poems  of 
the  Book  of  Lamentations  which,  while  fashioned  on 
the  professional  mourning-songs  of  the  Hebrew 
"  cunning  women,"  are  dirges,  not  for  an  individual, 

^  The  Pindarique  Odes  of  Cowley  were  written  in  stanzas  of  unequal 
lengths  and  'great  variety  of  metre  under  the  then  prevalent,  though  quite 
mistaken  idea,  that  this  was  the  true  Pindaric  style.  Only  much  later 
was  it  discovered  that  the  Odes  of  Pindar  are  not  metrically  "licentious," 
but  are,  on  the  contrary,  based  upon  a  very  rigid  though  exceedingly  com- 
plicated system. 

*  Cymbelme,  iv.  2. 


132  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

but  over  the  fall  of  a  city  *'  that  was  full  of  people." 
It  has  grown  into  a  memorial  or  encomiastic  poem, 
containing  the  poet's  tribute  to  some  great  man  (not 
necessarily  relative  or  personal  friend),  and  often  a 
study  of  his  life  and  character,  with  reminiscences  and 
thoughts  suggested  by  them ;  as  in  Spenser's 
Astrophel,  Ben  Jonson's  celebrated  verses  To  the 
Memory  of  my  Beloved  .  .  .  Mr  Wz//tam  Shakespeare^ 
Milton's  Lycidas,  Arnold's  Rugby  Chapel  and  Thy r sis, 
Whittier's  In  Remembrance  of  Joseph  Sturge.  Often, 
too,  the  philosophic  and  speculative  elements  become 
predominant  in  it,  sometimes  even  to  the  total  sub- 
ordination of  the  purely  personal  interest ;  the  poet, 
brooding  upon  his  subject,  being  moved  to  meditations 
over  questions  immediately  raised  by  it,  or  over  the 
deepest  problems  of  life  and  destiny ;  as  in  Shelley's 
Adonais  and  Browning's  La  Saisiaz,  In  many  cases, 
of  course,  all  these  characteristics  are  combined  ;  as 
in  some  of  the  examples  just  cited,  and  even  more 
notably  in  In  Memoriam,  which  is  at  once  one  of  the 
most  frankly  personal  of  elegies,  a  large  tribute  to  the 
dead  friend,  a  spiritual  autobiography  extending  over 
some  three  years  of  intellectual  struggle,  and  a  philo- 
sophic poem  of  immense  reach  and  significance.  More- 
over, under  the  powerful  influences  of  a  bookish  age,  the 
elegy  in  modern  literature  has  often  been  used  as  a 
vehicle  for  literary  criticism  ;  as  by  Arnold  in  Heine's 
Grave,  the  two  "  Obermann  "  poems,  and  Memorial 
Verses,  1850;  and  by  Mr  William  Watson  in 
WordwortK s  Grave — unquestionably  the  finest  poem 
of  the  kind  in  our  language.  The  fact  that  these 
poems  have  an  intrinsic  value  as  appreciations  of  the 
authors  dealt  with,  no  less  than  for  their  beauty  as 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  133 

poems,  will  serve  to  remind  us  that  in  our  study  of 
the  critical  elegy,  as  in  our  study  of  all  other  classes  of 
poetry  in  which  the  thought-element  is  in  the  ascendant, 
the  criteria  already  indicated  have  still  to  be  applied. 
One  particular  type  of  elegy  calls  for  separate  mention 
— the  pastoral  type,  in  which  the  poet  expresses  his 
sorrow  under  the  similitude  of  a  shepherd  mourning 
for  a  companion,  or  otherwise  through  conventional 
bucolic  machinery.  This  form  arose  among  the 
Sicilian  Greeks ;  it  passed  into  modern  European 
literatures  at  the  time  of  the  Renaissance ;  and  it  has 
often  been  employed  by  English  poets  from  Spenser 
to  Matthew  Arnold.  Thus  far  we  have  considered  the 
elegy  in  its  various  developments  as  a  memorial  poem 
only.  It  remains  to  add  that  the  word  has  long  been 
more  broadly  used  for  any  poem  distinctively  reflective 
in  character,  and  of  a  markedly  melancholy  strain. 
One  of  the  most  famous  of  English  poems — Gray's 
Elegy  in  a  Country  Churchyard — shows  this  extension 
of  meaning.^ 

^  It  was  in  an  even  broader  sense  that  elegy  was  understood  among  the 
Greeks.  Greek  elegy,  says  Jebb,  *'  deals  with  the  greatest  variety  of  sub- 
jects,— the  wars  which  the  poet's  city  is  waging,  the  political  feuds  among 
the  citizens,  the  laws  or  principles  which  the  poet  wishes  them  to  adopt,  his 
own  opinions  on  the  manners  and  morals  of  the  day,  his  views  as  to  the  best 
way  of  enjoying  life,  festive  pleasure,  lamentation  for  the  dead — every- 
thing that  the  poet  and  his  friends  are  wont  to  think  or  talk  of "  {Primer 
of  Greek  Literature,  pp.  50,  51).  An  elegy  was,  in  fact,  any  poem 
written  in  the  "elegiac"  measure,  which  was  a  distich  composed  of  a 
dactylic  hexameter  followed  by  a  dactylic  pentameter.  This  measure  is 
admirably  described  and  exemplified  by  Longfellow : — 

**  Perad venture  of  old  some  bard  in  Ionian  Islands, 
Walking  alone  by  the  sea,  hearing  the  wash  of  the  waves, 
Learn'd  the  secret  from  them  of  the  beautiful  verse  elegiac, 
Breathing  into  his  song  motions  and  sounds  of  the  sea  ; 


134  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Under  the  general  head  of  subjective  poetry  we 
other  Kinds  "^ ^y  ^^^°  include  the  descriptive  poem,  the 
of  subjec-  Epistle,  and  the  Satire.  Finally,  it  may  be 
ive  oe  y.  mentioned  that  there  are  certain  kinds  of 
lyrical  poetry  which  are  classified  wholly  on  the  basis 
of  form.^  The  only  one  of  these  which  has  any  real 
importance  for  English  readers  is  the  Sonnet,  a  poem 
of  fourteen  lines,  governed  by  certain  prescribed  rules 
in  general  structure  and  in  the  disposition  of  the  rimes. 
These  rules  have  indeed  been  often  ignored  by  English 
sonnet-writers  from  Shakespeare  downward,  and  thus 
a  distinction  has  grown  up  between  the  regular  (or 
Italian)  and  the  irregular  (frequently  called  the  Shake- 
spearean) types.  The  theoretical  system  of  the  sonnet 
should,  however,  be  carefully  analysed  and  mastered 
by  every  student  of  poetic  technique.^ 

We  now  pass  from  subjective  or  personal  to  objec- 
Objective  tive  or  impersonal  poetry.  The  fundamental 
Poetry.  characteristic  of  this  poetry  is,  as  I  have 
already  said,  that  it  deals  directly,  not  with  the  thoughts 
and  feelings  of  the  poet,  but  with  the  outer  world  of 

For  as  the  wave  of  the  sea,  ui)heaving  in  long  undulations, 
Plunges  loud  on  the  sands,  pauses  and  turns  and  retreats, 
So  the  Hexameter  rising  and  surging  with  cadence  sonorous 
Falls ;  and  in  refluent  rhythrA'baek  the  Pentameter  flows." 

Goethe's  Roman  Elegies  are  among  the  most  famous  examples  in 
modern  literature  of  this  classic  form.  The  English  reader  may  study 
the  measure  to  perfection  in  Watson's  noble  Hymn  to  the  Sea. 

^  Among  these,  the  intricate  verse-forms  of  old  French  poetry,  Northern 
and  Proven9al,  may  be  referred  to  in  passing,  on  account  of  the  vogue 
they  enjoyed  for  a  time  in  our  nineteenth  century  literature.  See  the 
collection  of  Ballades  and  Rondeaus,  edited  by  Gleeson  White  in  The 
Canterbury  Poets. 

2  See,  e.g.,  Mr  Watts-Dunton's  article  in  Chambers's  Encyclopaedia  and 
William  Sharp's  Introduction  to  Sonnets  of  this  Century,  in  The 
Canterbury  Poets. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETEY  135 

passion  and  action.  While,  therefore,  in  subjective 
poetry,  which  is  the  poetry  of  introspection,  the  poet 
looks  into  his  heart  to  write,  and  even  draws  the 
'outer  world  down  into  himself  and  steeps  it  in  its  own 
emotions,  in  objective  poetry  he  projects  himself  into 
the  life  without,  and,  seeking  there  his  motives  and 
subjects,  handles  these  with  the  least  possible  admix- 
ture of  his  own  individuality.^ 

Such  impersonal  poetry  falls  naturally  into  two 
groups — the  narrative  and  the  dramatic.  As  these  must 
manifestly  have  much  in  common  with  the  prose- story 
and  the  regular  play,  the  reader  will  find  a  great  deal 
which  bears  directly  upon  them  in  our  succeeding 
chapters  on  the  novel  and  the  drama.     A  rapid  survey 

^I  say  "with  the  least  possible  admixture  of  his  own  individuality," 
because,  despite  much  loose  talk  about  "dramatic  self-obliteration,"  no 
poet  can  ever  completely  eliminate  himself  from  his  work.  Everything 
that  we  have  said  about  personality  as  the  foundation  of  literature  holds 
good  of  even  the  most  objective  of  poetry.  But  here,  for  the  most  part, 
the  poetreveals  himself  indirectly  through  what  he  represents  and  creates, 
while  in  subjective  poetry  he  expresses  himself  immediately.  It  may 
further  be  added,  that  only  in  a  few  rare  cases  (and  among  these  the 
Shakespearean  drama  cannot  be  included)  is  no  trace  of  even  direct  self- 
intrusion  to  be  found.  Something  more  will  be  said  on  this  point  when 
we  come  to  the  drama.  Passing  reference  may  meanwhile  be  made  to 
the  rather  academic  controversy  concerning  the  alleged  natural  and 
essential  superiority  of  objective  poetry  as  a  class  to  subjective  poetry 
as  a  class.  Brunetiere,  for  instance,  drew  up  a  *'  hierarchy  of  genres,^' 
and  argued  that  the  relative  value  of  each  was  to  be  found  in  an  inverse 
ratio  to  the  degree  to  which  it  involved  or  permitted  the  direct  expression 
of  personality.  On  this  basis  he  ranked  the  drama,  as  a  form  of  art, 
higher  than  the  novel.  Among  English  critics,  Arnold  may  in  particular 
be  mentioned  as  a  stout  upholder  of  the  objective  doctrine  (see  Preface  to 
Poems^  1854,  reprinted  in  Mixed  Essays).  It  was  in  accordance  with 
the  principles  there  enunciated  that  his  own  most  ambitious  poems — his 
narrative  and  dramatic  poems — were  written.  But  by  temper  and  natural 
bias  of  genius,  Arnold  was  emphatically  subjective ;  and  his  most 
characteristic  verse  belongs  to  the  personal  class. 


136  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUKE 

of  their  principal  sub-divisions  and  of  the  more  salient 
characteristics  of  these,  is  all  that  we  have  now  to 
undertake. 

In  our  study  of  narrative  poetry  we  naturally  begin 
The  with  the  popular  ballad, or  short  story  inverse  ; 

Ballad.  a  form  which  appears  to  have  arisen  spontan- 
eously in  almost  all  literatures,  and  represents  one  of  the 
earliest  stages  in  the  evolution  of  the  poetic  art.  Our 
own  literature  is  particularly  rich  in  ballads  of  the  true 
traditional  kind,  of  which  the  authorship  has  long 
since  been  forgotten,  and  which  alike  in  form  and  spirit 
bear  evident  traces  of  the  unlettered  but  vigorous  times 
out  of  which  they  sprang,  and  of  the  tastes  of  the 
popular  audiences  for  which  they  were  originally 
made.^  Their  themes  are  commonly  furnished  by  the 
more  elementary  aspects  of  life  ;  large  space  is  given 
in  them  to  tales  of  adventure,  fighting,  deeds  of  prowess 
and  valour  ;  they  have  frequently  a  strong  infusion  of 
supernaturalism ;  while  love,  hatred,  pity,  and  the 
simpler  interests  of  the  domestic  lot,  receive  a  full  share 
of  attention.  In  method  and  style  they  are  character- 
ised by  straightforwardness  and  rapidity  of  narration, 
and  a  certain  childlike  naivete  ;  often  crude,  they  are 
often,  too,  astonishingly  energetic  ;  and  while  habitu- 
ally garrulous  in  matters  of  detail,  they  seldom  linger 
over  description  or  concern  themselves  about  motives 
and    passions,    save    as     these    translate    themselves 

'^Vtxcy^sReliques  of  Ancient  English  Poetry — the  first  important  collec- 
tion of  our  old  ballads — has  been  already  referred  to  as  an  epoch-making 
book.  It  is  a  work  which,  notwithstanding  its  many  imperfections, 
every  lover  of  poetry  and  every  student  of  the  history  of  literature  should 
possess.  But  a  number  of  much  more  comprehensive  and  more  scholarly 
anthologies  have  been  published  since  Percy's  time  ;  notably,  the  monu- 
mental work  of  Prof.  F.  J.  Child. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  137 

immediately  into  action.  Many  of  these  ballads  have 
immense  dramatic  power  and  wonderful  metrical 
beauty,  and  for  this  reason  they  must  be  assigned  to 
a  distinct  place  among  the  great  imperishable  things 
of  our  literature.  But  apart  from  their  intrinsic 
merits,  they  are  specially  deserving  of  study  at  a 
time  like  our  own  when,  in  literature  as  in  music, 
the  current  runs  so  strong  in  the  direction  of  ever- 
increasing  complexity  that  our  tastes  are  becoming 
sophisticated  and  we  are  in  danger  of  losing  all 
healthy  appreciation  of  what  is  simple,  broad,  and 
elemental.^ 

The  modern  ballad  may  be  defined  as  a  literary 
development  of  the  traditional  form.  To  this  form  it 
often  keeps  very  close  ;  as  in  such  admirable  examples 
of  the  simpler  narrative  in  verse  as  Scott's  Eve  of  St 
John,  Kingsley's  The  Sands  of  Dee,  Longfellow's  The 
Wreck  of  the  Hesperus,  Rossetti's  Stratton  Water,  and 
William  Morris's  Shameful  Death.  More  often,  on 
the  other  hand,  while  it  clearly  owes  much  to  the 
inspiration  of  early  poetry,  and  preserves  its  best 
traditions,  it  shows  the  powerful  influences  of  a  later 
age  in  its  tendency  to  greater  elaboration,  the  enlarge- 
ment of  description  and  psychological  interest,  and  a 
more  finished  style  of  art.  The  really  characteristic 
modern  ballad,  therefore,  represents  the  natural  expan- 
sion, not  the  artificial  reproduction,  of  the  primitive 
type.  It  is  not  in  laborious  imitations  of  primitive 
models,  with  their  attempts  to  recover  the  spontaneous 
simplicity  of  nature  through  the  studied  simplicity  of 

^  Mention  has  already  been  made  of  the  fact  that  Percy's  Reliqtus  did 
much  to  help  the  reaction  towards  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century 
against  the  artificiality  which  had  then  long  prevailed  in  our  literature. 


138  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

art,  their  deliberate  archaisms,  and  their  consequent 
flavour  of  affectation  and  formalism,  but  in  poems 
like  Tennyson's  The  Revenge,  Browning's  Herve  Riel^ 
Rossetti's  The  King's  Tragedy,  and  Robert  Buchanan's 
The  Ballad  of  Judas  Iscariot,  that  we  are  in  the 
true  line  of  literary  evolution  ;  for  these,  while 
they  have  all  the  sterling  qualities  of  the  old 
ballads,  have  nothing  merely  imitative  about  them, 
but  are,  on  the  contrary,  essentially  modern  and 
original    poems. 

From   the  ballad,   or  story-poem,   we  pass   to  the 
longer   narrative  in  verse.       Of  this  large   species   a 
number  of  fairly  well-marked  varieties   may   be  dis- 
tinguished, the  first  place  among  which  must 
The  Epic.     ^    .         \      ^u       ^  '  17  r 

be    given    to    the    Epic.       For    purposes   of 

historical  study  this  again  has  to  be  sub-divided  into 
primitive  epic  and  later  epic.  The  former  of  these 
has  also  been  called  the  "epic  of  growth,"  to  mark 
the  fact  that  unlike  the  "  epic  of  art,"  with  which  it  is 
thus  contrasted,  it  is  not  in  its  entirety  the  work  of  a 
single  author,  but  to  some  extent  the  result  of  a  process 
of  evolution  and  consolidation,  and  that  a  large  amount 
of  pre-existing  material,  in  the  shape  of  floating  legends 
and  earlier  folk-poems  and  sagas,  is  gathered  up  into 
its  composition.  An  epic  of  this  kind  may,  therefore, 
be  regarded  as  the  final  product  of  a  long  series  of 
accretions  and  syntheses  ;  scattered  ballads  gradually 
clustering  together  about  a  common  character  into 
ballad-cycles  (like  the  English  Robin  Hood  cycle),  and 
these  at  length  being  reduced  to  approximate  unity 
by  the  intervention  of  conscious  art.  Well-known 
examples  are  to  be  found  in  the  Anglo-Saxon  Beowulf y 
the   old    Germanic    Nibelungenlied,   and    the    Finnish 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  139 

Kalevala}  To  the  same  general  class  we  may  also 
assign  the  Iliad  and  the  Odyssey,  though  we  must  do 
this  with  some  diffidence,  since,  as  all  but  the  most  \ 
radical  critics  admit,  whatever  may  have  been  their  j 
genesis  and  early  history,  the  controlling  power  of  a 
single  supreme  artistic  genius  is  clearly  evident  in  \ 
the  poems  as  they  stand.  All  primitive  epics  deal,  ^ 
broadly  speaking,  with  the  same  kind  of  subject- 
matter.  Their  themes  are  furnished,  in  Homeric 
phrase,  by  xXia  a.\hpOjv — the  "  deeds  of  heroes,"  ^  gener- 
ally the  great  legendary  heroes  of  a  race  ;  and  vast 
bodies  of  immemorial  traditions  provide  the  basis  of 
their  structure.  As  these  traditions  are  almost 
invariably  bound  up  with  a  people's  mythology,  the 
supernatural  element  is  also  more  or  less  prominent ; 
whether,  as  in  the  Homeric  epics,  it  is  distinctively 
religious  in  character  and  is  everywhere  interfused 
with  the  human  interest  of  the  action  ;  or  whether,  as 
in  the  Nibelungenlied,  it  has  become  attenuated  into 
the  merely  marvellous  and  appears  only  occasionally 
in  the  background.  In  the  style  of  such  poems  there 
is  much  to  remind  us  of  the  popular  ballad  ;  even  the 
Iliad  and  the  Odyssey ^  notwithstanding  the  individual 
greatness  of  their  manner,  being  marked  by  the 
directness    and   simplicity;  the   nafvet6   and    frequent 

^  The  case  of  the  Kalevala  is  indeed  different  from  that  of  the  other 
two  poems  mentioned,  since  it  owes  its  epic  form  to  the  labours  of  a 
modern  scholar,  Dr  Lonnrot,  who,  like  Scott  in  his  "  Border  raids," 
collected  from  the  peasantry  an  immense  number  of  ancient  ballads  and 
sagas,  and  then  wove  these  together,  with  great  skill,  into  a  consecutive 
narrative,  without,  as  he  asserted,  adding  a  line  of  his  own.  His  work, 
therefore,  provides  an  interesting  object-lesson,  for  it  shows  the  way  in 
which,  in  early  times,  an  epic  may  have  been  made  out  of  masses  of 
scattered  legendary  material. 

^  Iliad,  ix.  189  ;  Odyssey y  viii.  73. 


140  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUKE 

garrulity,    which,    in    all    literatures,    belong    to    the 
poetic  art  in  the  earlier  stages  of  its  development. 

The  relation  of  the  "  epic  of  art "  to  the  "  epic  of 
growth  "  is  much  the  same  as  that  of  the  later  ballad 

/  to  the  traditional  form.  It  is  the  product  of  individual 
genius  working  in  an  age  of  scholarship  and  literary- 
culture  on  lines  already  laid  down.  One  great  epic 
of  art  occupies  a  place  of  capital  importance  in 
literary  history,  not  only  on  account  of  its  own 
splendid  qualities,  but  also  because,  itself  fashioned 
closely  on  the  Homeric  poems,  it  became  in  its  turn 
a  chief  model  for  other  workers  in  the  epic  field — the 

\  ^neid.  In  Paradise  Lost  English  poetry  possesses 
one  of  the  supreme  master-pieces  of  epic  literature ; 
while  for  other  examples  of  the  same  class  reference 
may  be  made  to  Tasso's  Gerusalemme  Liberata^  the 
Lusiadas  of  Camoens,  and  on  a  much  smaller  scale, 
Arnold's  "episode,"  or  epic  fragment,  Sohrab  and 
Rustum.  The  literary  epic  naturally  resembles  the 
primitive  epic,  on  which  it  is  ultimately  based,  in 
/  various  fundamental  characteristics.  Its  subject- 
matter  is  of  the  old  heroic  and  mythical  kind ;  it 
makes  free  use  of  the  supernatural ;  it  follows  the 
same  structural  plan  and  reproduces  many  traditional 
details  of  composition  ;  while,  greatly  as  it  necessarily 
differs  in  style,  it  often  adopts  the  formulas,  fixed 
epithets,  and  stereotyped  phrases  and  locutions,  which 
are  among  the  marked  features  of  the  early  type.  But 
examination  discloses,  beneath  all  superficial  likenesses, 
a  radical  dissimilarity.  The  heroic  and  legendary 
material  is  no  longer  living  material ;  it  is  invented 
by  the  poet  or  disinterred  by  scholarly  research  ;  and 
it  is  handled  with  laborious  care  in  accordance  with 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  141 

abstract  rules  and  principles  which  have  become  part 
of  an  accepted  literary  tradition.  Where,  therefore, 
the  epic  of  growth  is  fresh,  spontaneous,  racy,  the  epic 
of  art  is  learned,  antiquarian,  bookish,  imitative.  Its 
specifically  "  literary  "  qualities — its  skilful  reproduc- 
tion and  adaptation  of  epic  matter  and  methods,  its 
erudition,  its  echoes,  reminiscences,  and  borrowings — 
are  indeed,  as  the  ^neid  and  Paradise  Lost  will  suffice 
to  prove,  among  its  most  interesting  characteristics  for  . 
a  cultured  reader.^  A  minor  form  of  the  epic  of  art 
may  just  be  mentioned — the  Mock  Epic,  in  which  the 
machinery  and  conventions  of  the  regular  epic  are 
employed  in  connection  with  trivial  themes,  and  thus 
turned  to  the  purposes  of  parody  or  burlesque.  The 
earliest  specimen  of  this  form  is  the  fragmentary 
Batrachomyomachia,  or  Battle  of  the  Frogs  and  Mice^ 
once  ascribed  to  Homer,  while  the  finest  example  of 
it  in  English  is  Pope's  The  Rape  of  the  Lock.  It  will 
be  observed  that  thus  far  I  have  spoken  of  one 
particular  kind  of  literary  epic  only — the  classic  kind. 
In  rare  instances,  however,  a  non-classic  form  may  be 
taken  as  model.  Thus  Longfellow's  Song  of  Hiawatha 
was  in  part  at  least  inspired  by  and  fashioned  upon 
the  Kalevala^  the  rhythm  and  style  of  which  are 
adopted  in  it.^ 

^  See  ante,  pp.  75,  76. 

2  To  prevent  possible  confusion  I  ought  perhaps  to  call  special  attention 
to  the  fact  that  while  epic  is  often  employed  as  a  synonym  for  a  long 
narrative  poem  of  any  description,  I  have  taken  the  word  here,  as  will 
be  seen,  in  a  much  more  restricted  sense.  This  limitation  of  its  meaning 
is  amply  justified,  I  think,  by  the  needs  of  classification.  The  attempt 
to  bring  all  kinds  of  narrative  poetry  under  one  head  is  a  result  of  the 
academic  assumption  that  the  divisions  of  poetic  forms  adopted  by  the 
Greeks,  and  satisfactorily  enough  in  respect  of  their  own  poetry,  had,  as 
Arnold  held,  a  *'  natural  propriety,"  and  are  therefore  to  be  accepted  as 


142  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Another  division  of  narrative  poetry  which,  with 
many  resemblances  to  the  epic,  is  yet  distinguished 
from  it  in  source,  matter,  and  method,  is  the  Metrical 
Romance.  As,  however,  in  the  evolution  of  literature 
^Q  this  term  has  undergone  considerable  enlarge- 

Metricai  ment  of  meaning,  various  different  classes  of 
mance.  composition  have  to  be  included  under  it. 
There  are,  first, those  poems  which  fall  under  the  strictest 
definition  of  romance,  which  originally  signified  a  story 
told  in  one  of  the  romance  languages,  and  dealing,  as  all 
such  stories  did,  with  chivalry,  knight-errantry,  -fighting, 
adventure,  enchantments,  love  :  like  the  chansons  de 
gestes  which  were  popular  in  France  during  the  Middle 
Ages,  and  flourished  in  England  in  Anglo-Norman 
times.  Then  there  are  the  English  narratives  of  the 
same  general  type  which,  as  the  word  had  already 
come  to  denote  a  certain  kind  of  matter  and  treatment, 
were  called  romances  though  not  written  in  a  romance 
tongue.  In  part  developed  from  these  earlier  forms, 
though  in  part  touched  by  the  classic  culture  of  Italy, 
Chaucer's  splendid  idealised  picture  of  the  fast-vanish- 
ing world  of  chivalry.  The  Knightes  Tale,  next  deserves 
special  mention  on  our  list.  Thence  we  pass  to  such 
poems  as  Ariosto's  Orlando  Furioso  and  Spenser's 
Faery  Queene,  in  which  the  familiar  characters  and 
machinery  of  the  old  romances — wandering  knights, 
distressed  damsels,  battles,  tournaments,  giants,  dwarfs, 
wizards,  enchanted  castles — are  remanipulated  for 
different  purposes  by  poets  for  whom  such  things  have 
become  as  much  matters  of  literary  tradition  as  are 

final.  Such  assumption  ignores  the  enormous  evolution  of  literature  since 
Greek  times,  with  the  consequent  continual  differentiation  of  literary 
types. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  143 

heroic  and  mythical  subjects  for  writers  of  epics  of  art. 
In  yet  another  subdivision  of  the  verse-romance  we  may 
place  the  numerous  narrative  poems  of  more  recent 
literature  which  were  inspired  by  that  imaginative 
revival  of  the  past  which,  as  we  have  seen,  was  one 
conspicuous  feature  of  the  romantic  movement  ;  for 
example,  Scott's  Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel  2it\d  Marmiofty 
and  later,  Tennyson's  Idylls  of  the  King^  Swinburne's 
Tristram  of  Lyonesse^  Arnold's  Tristram  and  Iseulty 
Hawker's  Quest  of  the  Sangreal^  and  the  tales  in 
Morris's  Earthly  Paradise.  These  last  are  specially 
interesting  as  showing  the  purely  romantic  handling 
even  of  subjects  taken  from  Greek  mythology.  The 
Idylls  of  the  King,  on  the  other  hand,  are  equally 
suggestive,  because  they  exhibit  the  combination, 
natural  in  an  age  of  literary  eclecticism,  of  the  romantic 
with  the  classic,  since,  while  their  theme  is  mediaeval, 
their  art  owes  so  much  to  their  authors  long  and 
loving  study  of  Homer  that  with  almost  as  much  pro- 
priety we  might  define  them  as  epic.  It  may  further  be 
remarked  that,  like  the  Faery  Queene,  they  exemplify 
on  a  large  scale  the  use  of  narrative  for  allegorical 
purposes,  of  which  I  have  already  spoken.  Finally, 
the  word  romance  has  been  still  further  extended  to 
cover  poems  like  Moore's  Lalla  Rookh,  and  the  verse 
tales  of  Byron  and  his  imitators,  which  are  products  of 
the  romantic  movement  in  literature,  and  are  romantic 
in  matter  and  spirit  in  that  secondary,  though  now 
current,  sense  in  which  the  term  has  now  come  to  mean 
anything  that  is  remote,  passionate,  fantastic,  wild. 

One  other  class  of  narrative  poetry  remains  to  be 
mentioned,  but  for  this  unfortunately  it  seems  impos- 
sible to  find  any  name  which  could  be  accepted  as 


144  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

entirely  satisfactory.  It  may  be  best  described,  per- 
other  haps,  by  saying  that  in  contrast  with  both  the 
Narrative  ^P^^  ^^^  ^^^  romance  it  represents  the  tendency 
Poetry,  towards  realism  in  poetic  art.  It  is  the 
distinguishing  feature  of  such  poetry,  therefore,  that 
in  its  subjects  it  keeps  relatively  close  to  the  ordinary 
world  of  experience  and  action,  though  it  may  treat 
this  world  in  very  different  ways  ;  as  we  may  see  by 
comparing  the  hard  and  uncompromising  literalness 
of  Crabbe,  who  set  out  to  "  paint  the  cot  as  Truth  will 
paint  it  and  as  bards  will  not,"  ^  with  Tennyson's  so- 
called  "  idealistic  realism,"  or  habit  (as  in  the  English 
Idylls),  of  transfiguring  homely  detail  by  the  subtle 
touch  of  poetic  magic.  Naturally,  this  kind  of 
narrative  poetry  often  finds  its  themes  and  characters 
in  the  present  ;  and  even  when  it  goes  back  into  the 
past  for  them,  it  seeks  them  still,  as  in  Longfellow's 
Evangeline^  amid  commonplace  people  and  surround- 
ings, and  not  in  heroic  legend,  or  romantic  achieve- 
ments, or  among  the  great  movements  and  figures  of 
history.  Sometimes  it  may  take  the  form  of  a  humorous 
transcript  from  contemporary  manners,  especially  the 
manners  of  "  low "  life,  as  in  several  of  Chaucer's 
Canterbury  Tales,  and  in  the  delightful  character- 
studies  loosely  set  in  the  economic  argument  of 
Goldsmith's  Deserted  Village,  But  the  greatest  interest 
belongs  to  two  subdivisions  of  it,  both  of  comparatively 
recent  growth.  The  first  of  these  comprises  such  poems 
as  derive  their  material  from  "  the  short  and  simple 
annals  of  the  poor,"  or  from  the  lives  of  the  humble  and 
obscure ;  like  Wordsworth's  Michael  and  Tennyson's 
Enoch  Arden  and  Dora.     To  the  second  we  may  assign 

1  The  Village,  Book  i. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETEY  145 

all  such  poetic  narratives  as,  like  Mrs  Browning's 
Aurora  Leigh^  Owen  Meredith's  Lucile^  Coventry 
Patmore's  The  Angel  in  the  House,  and  Robert 
Browning's  Red  Cotton  Night- Cap  Country ,  are  to  all 
intents  and  purposes  novels  in  verse.  The  former 
class  has  a  special  historical  significance  as  marking 
the  influx  into  narrative  poetry  of  that  ever-broadening 
sympathy  with  "  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  men," 
which  is  one  aspect  of  the  modern  democratic  move- 
ment. The  latter  is  manifestly  the  result  of  that 
same  complex  of  forces,  social  and  literary,  which 
produced  the  modern  novel.  It  is  particularly 
worthy  of  critical  consideration,  both  because  it 
exhibits  the  effort  of  poetry  to  follow  prose  fiction 
into  the  field  of  contemporary  social  life,  and 
because  it  thereby  raises  the  difficult  problem  as 
to  how  far,  and  under  what  conditions  of  treatment, 
modern  facts  and  problems  can  be  successfully  handled 
in  verse.  ^ 

The  last  division  of  objective  poetry  is  the  Dramatic. 
By  this  I  do  not  here  mean  the  regular  acted  Dramatic 
drama  which,  as  a  specific  form  of  literary  I'oetry. 
art,  is  reserved  for  separate  treatment.  I  mean  simply 
poetry  which,  though  intended  not  for  the  stage  but  to 
be  read,  is  essentially  dramatic  in  principle  ;   poetry, 

^  Aurora  Leigh,  which  Leigh  Hunt  called  a  **  kaleidoscopic  presentment 
of  modem  life,"  was,  according  to  the  author's  own  statement,  intended 
to  show  that  poetry  could  "  meet  the  age  face  to  face."  See  Book  v., 
lines  139-221,  for  a  vigorous  assertion  of  the  claims  of  modernity  in  poetic 
art ;  and  contrast  Arnold's  contention  {Preface  to  First  Edition  of  Poems, 
\n  Mixed  Essays),  \hsL.\.,  while  modern  subjects  may  serve  **the  comic 
poet  "  and  "  the  lighter  kinds  of  poetry,"  an  *'  action  of  present  times  "  is 
*' too  near,"  and  "too  much  mixed  up  with  what "  is  "accidental  and 
passing,  to  form  a  sufficiently  grand,  detached,  and  self-sufficient  object 
for  a  tragic  poem." 
K 


146  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEBATUEE 

that  is,  in  which  the  poet  merges  himself  in  his 
character  or  characters,  and  does  not,  as  in  subjective 
r  poetry  or  ordinary  narrative,  describe  or  relate  in  his 
I  own  person  and  from  the  outside.  In  all  varieties  of 
narrative  poetry  the  dramatic  element  commonly 
appears  more  or  less  prominently  in  the  shape  of 
dialogue  ;  while  more  rarely  it  fills  considerable  space 
as  incorporated  autobiographical  material,  as  in  the 
long  tales  told  about  themselves  by  Odysseus  in  the 
Ocfyssej/  and  iEneas  in  the  ^neid.  In  many  cases 
it  is  not  necessary  to  distinguish  what  should  strictly 
be  called  dramatic  narrative  from  ordinary  narrative. 
Thus,  to  be  entirely  consistent,  we  ought  to  class 
Aurora  Leigh  under  the  former  head  ;  but  nothing 
would  be  gained  by  doing  this,  and  it  seems  more 
natural,  therefore,  to  describe  it  as  a  narrative  in 
verse  in  the  autobiographical,  or  first-personal  form.^ 
The  use  of  the  epithet  "  dramatic "  should  rather,  I 
think,  be  confined  to  poems  in  which  the  poet's 
assumption  of  character  has  a  real  importance  in  the 
working  out  of  his  theme.  So  understood,  dramatic 
poetry  may  be  subdivided  into  several  groups.  There 
is  first  the  Dramatic  Lyric.  This  is  in  spirit  and 
method  a  subjective  poem ;  but  the  subjective  element 
pertains,  not  to  the  poet  himself,  but  to  some  other 
person,  into  whose  moods  and  experiences  he  enters, 
and  to  whose  thoughts  and  feelings  he  gives  vicarious 
expression.  Browning's  works  furnish  many  familiar 
examples    of  this   type,^   and    to    these,   such  widely 

^  On  the  general  significance  of  this  form,  see  chap.  iv.  pp.  187-189. 

2  Browning  uses  Dramatic  Lyrics  as  a  general  title  for  one  division 
of  his  works  ;  but  some  of  the  poems  contained  in  it  are  really  dramatic 
stories. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  147 

differing  productions  as  Macaulay's  Ivry,  Hood's  Song 
of  the  Shirty  and  Stevenson's  Child's  Garden  of  Verses^ 
may  be  added  by  way  of  further  illustration.  There 
is,  secondly,  the  Dramatic  Story,  including  the  ballad, 
or  short  story  in  verse,  like  Tennyson's  The  First 
Quarrel  and  The  Revenge^  Browning's  How  they 
brought  the  Good  News  from  Ghent  and  Muleykeh^  and 
Arnold's  Forsaken  Merman ;  and  the  more  extended 
narrative,  like  Browning's  A  Forgiveness,  Rossetti's 
A  Last  Confession,  and  Tennyson's  "  monodrama," 
Maud.  Sometimes  the  story  is  told  entirely  in 
dialogue,  as  in  Rossetti's  Sister  Helen ;  and  sometimes, 
while  the  bulk  of  the  story  is  in  direct  narration,  the 
dialogue  element  plays  an  important  part  in  the 
scheme,  as  in  The  Holy  Grail,  in  which  Sir  Percival's 
tale  is  interrupted  from  time  to  time,  and  its  moral 
significance  punctuated,  by  the  questions  and  comments 
of  his  auditor,  the  old  monk  Ambrosius.  This  poem 
also  shows  that  in  a  dramatic  story  there  may  be  a 
certain  amount  of  non  -  dramatic  description  and 
"  setting  "  ;  a  point  which  is  again  illustrated  by  The 
Ancient  Mariner.  Another  plan,  adopted  by  Coventry 
Patmore  in  Faithful  for  Ever,  is  to  unfold  the  incidents 
and  characters  in  letters.^  A  third  species  of  dramatic 
poetry  comprises  the  Dramatic  Monologue  or  Soliloquy.^ 

^  Another  kind  of  dramatic  narrative  may  just  be  mentioned,  though 
it  does  not  properly  enter  into  our  present  analysis.  It  is  the  kind  repre- 
sented by  the  Canterbury  Tales,  in  which  the  story  is  told  in  the  third- 
personal  form,  but  by  a  character  created  by  the  poet,  and  not  by  the 
poet  himself. 

2  Though  the  two  words  are  habitually  employed  interchangeably, 
soliloquy  really  means  a  poem  in  which  the  speaker  talks  to  himself,  as 
in  Browning's  Caliban  upon  Setehos ;  monologue,  a  poem  in  which  he 
addresses  some  listener  or  listeners,  as  in  the  same  writer's  Andrea  del 
Sarto  and  Fra  Lippo  Lippi. 


148  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

It  is  often  difficult  to  distinguish  this  from  the  dramatic 
lyric  on  the  one  hand,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  from  the 
dramatic  narrative  ;  from  the  former,  because  it,  too,  is 
vicariously  subjective  ;  from  the  latter,  on  account  of  the 
amount-  of  story  which  frequently  enters  into  its 
composition.  Speaking  generally,  however,  it  differs 
from  the  dramatic  lyric  as  the  more  elaborate  forms  of 
personal  poetry  differ  from  the  simple  lyric  proper ; 
while,  however  closely  it  may  approximate  to  the 
narrative  by  its  free  use  of  incident,  the  fact  that  it 
treats  all  outward  things  as  subordinate  to  those  inner 
forces  and  problems  upon  which  its  interest  is  con- 
centrated, is  sufficient  to  put  it  into  a  class  by  itself. 
It  is  essentially  a  study  of  character,  of  mental  states, 
of  moral  crises,  made  from  the  inside.  Thus  it  is 
predominantly  psychological,  analytical,  meditative, 
argumentative.  Of  this  form,  though  it  has  been  used 
with  success  by  other  modern  poets.  Browning  is,  of 
course,  our  greatest  master,  and  in  his  work  may  be 
found  examples  of  almost  every  variety  of  it,  from  brief 
and  subtle  self-delineation,  as  in  Mf  Last  Duchess^  to 
long  and  profound  exploration  of  spiritual  depths  and 
moral  complexities,  as  in  The  Bishop  orders  his  Tomb 
at  St  Praxed's,  Bishop  Blougram's  Apology^  and  Prince 
Hohenstiel-Schwangau,  One  problem  involved  in  the 
study  of  the  dramatic  monologue  is  too  important  to 
be  passed  over  without  a  word.  In  theory,  it  is  clear, 
dramatic  poetry  is  the  most  entirely  objective  form  of 
poetry,  that  in  which  the  poet  most  completely  loses 
himself.  The  ideal  aim  of  a  dramatic  monologue  may, 
therefore,  be  defined  as  the  faithful  self-portrayal, 
without  ulterior  purpose,  of  the  personality  of  the 
supposed   speaker.      In  practice,  however,  it  is  often 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  149 

used  by  the  poet  as  a  medium  for  his  own  philosophy. 
He  may  so  use  it  to  present  his  philosophy  directly, 
as  when  the  supposed  speaker  is  to  all  intents  and 
purposes  his  mouthpiece  and  representative  ;  or  he  may 
so  use  it  to  present  his  philosophy  indirectly,  as  when 
he  makes  the  supposed  speaker  give  expression  to 
ideas  antagonistic  to  his  own  in  such  manner  as  to 
convey  or  suggest  adverse  judgment  upon  them.  The 
direct  method  is  exemplified  by  Browning's  Rabbi 
Ben  Ezra;  the  indirect,  by  the  same  poet's  Cleon^  and 
by  Tennyson's  St  Simeon  Stylites.  Despite  Brown- 
ing's rather  too  emphatic  claim  for  the  absolute 
objectivity  of  his  dramatic  writing,  his  own  religious 
and  ethical  teachings  continually  appear  in  it,  in  either 
positive  or  negative  statement ;  and  the  problem  in  his 
case,  and  in  all  other  similar  cases,  therefore,  is  to  dis- 
entangle the  personal  from  the  impersonal  elements, 
and  to  determine  how  far,  and  in  what  ways,  poetry 
which  is  dramatic  in  form  and  spirit  is  none  the  less 
to  be  taken  as  a  contribution  to  the  poet's  interpreta- 
tion of  life. 

The  foregoing  are  varieties  of  the  poetry  which 
rests  upon  the  dramatic  principle,  though  it  does  not 
employ  the  actual  structure  and  machinery  of  the 
regular  stage-play.  There  is,  however,  another  class 
of  dramatic  poetry  in  which  such  structure  and 
machinery  are  adopted.  Browning's  Paracelsus, 
Longfellow's  Golden  Legend,  Arnold's  Empedocles  on 
Etna,  Ibsen's  Brand  and  Peer  Gynt,  will  indicate 
some  of  the  shapes  which  this  "  closet  drama "  may 
assume. 

In  closing  this  analysis,  I  must  ask  the  reader  to 
remember  that  it  is  not  intended  to  be  either  rigor- 


ISO  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

ously  logical  or  exhaustively  complete.  I  have 
sought  only  so  to  arrange  the  principal  genera  and 
species  of  poetry  according  to  a  natural  scheme  of 
classification,  as  to  provide  thereby  a  useful  basis  for 
systematic  study. 


Thus  far  our  attention  has  been  directed  mainly 
to  the  content  of  poetry  and  to  its  general  importance 
as  an  interpretation  of  life.  A  few  pages  must  now 
be  devoted  to  its  formal  and  technical  aspects. 

From  what  has  already  been  said  about  the  vital 
connection  between  poetic  feeling  and  rhythmical 
expression,  it  is  evident  that  careful  consideration 
must  be  given,  in  the  first  place,  to  the  facts  and 
problems  of  metre. 

By  metre  we  understand  that  ordered  rhythm  which 
results  from  a  regulated  alternation  of  syllables 
ments  of  of  different  characters  or  values.  In  the 
M^tre^  Greek  and  Latin  languages  this  difference  in 
character  or  value  depended  upon  what  is 
called  quantity^  or  the  length  of  time  taken  in  pro- 
nunciation; and  the  metrical  "foot,"  or  group  of  syllables 
forming  the  basis  of  the  line  or  verse,  was  composed 
of  short  and  long  syllables  arranged  according  to 
certain  schemes.  Thus  the  iambic  foot  was  made  up 
of  a  short  syllable  followed  by  a  long  one  (  J  ^  or 

~);  the  dactylic,  of  a  long  syllable  followed  by  two 
short  ones  (^j  J  J  or  "  "  " ) ;  the  spondaic,  of  two 
long  syllables  (sj  g^'  or  ~  ");  and  so  on.  In  English, 
the  basis  of  metre  is  not  quantity  but  accent,  and 
ordered  rhythm  arises  from  a  regulated  alternation  of 
syllables  which  are  stressed,  or  heavy,  and  unstressed, 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  151 

or  light.^  Now  a  stressed  syllable  may  be  combined 
in  a  foot  with  one  unstressed  or  with  two  (never,  in 
English  verse,  with  more  than  two) ;  and  thus  we  may 
have  feet  of  two  syllables  or  of  three,  the  character 
in  each  case  being  determined  by  the  relative  position 
of  the  accent.  The  five  chief  measures  of  English 
verse — two  dissyllabic  and  three  trisyllabic — are  thus 
reached : — 

I.  Feet  of  two  syllables  : — 

(i)  The   iambic,  in  which   the  unaccented  syllable 

precedes  the  accented  ( "  ' ),  as  in,  begin.     Thus — 

"  Awake  |  my  soul,  |  and  with  |  the  sun  |  ." 

(2)  The  trochaic,  in  which  this  order   is   reversed, 
and  the  unaccented  syllable  follows  the  accented  ( '  " ), 

as  in  mercy.     Thus — 

"  Comrades,  |  leave  me  |  here  a  |  little  |  while  as  |  yet  'tis  |  early  | 
morn." 

II.  Feet  of  three  syllables  : — 

(i)  The  anapaestic,  in  which  the   two    unaccented 

syllables  precede  the  accented  ("  "  '),  as  in  colonnade. 
Thus — 

"  And  the  sheen  |  of  their  spears  |  was  like  stars  |  on  the  sea  |  ." 
(2)  The   dactylic,  in   which  the  accented   syllable 

precedes  the  two  unaccented  ('""),  as  in  merciful. 
Thus — 

"  Take  her  up  |  tenderly  |  ." 

^  The  question  whether  quantity  does  or  does  not  also  exist  in  English 
verse,  and  if  so,  to  what  extent  it  reinforces  or  interferes  with  accent,  is 
one  of  the  great  problems  of  metrical  specialists,  and  it  has  long  been 
hotly  debated.  It  is,  however,  of  too  technical  a  character  to  be  discussed 
within  the  limits  of  a  mere  introductory  sketch. 


152  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

(3)  The  amphibrachic,  in  which  the  accented  syl- 
lable comes  between  the  two  unaccented  ("  '  "),  as  in 

eternal.     Thus — 

"  O  hush  thee,  |  my  babie  |  thy  sire  was  |  a  knight." 
Other  feet  are  also  recognised  by  some  English 
metrists,  and  even  of  the  five  principal  forms  here 
given  there  are  numerous  intricate  variations  and 
combinations.  But  limitations  of  space  compel  me  to 
confine  myself  to  the  most  elementary  facts  of  a  subject 
which  is  so  vast  and  involved  that  for  its  adequate 
treatment  a  volume,  not  a  section,  would  be  required. 
As  a  matter  of  convenience  I  adopt,  without  discussion, 
the  descriptive  names  which,  though  strictly  applicable 
only  to  classic  metres,  have  been,  and  are  still,  em- 
ployed by  the  great  majority  of  writers  on  English 
verse,  though  not  without  protest  from  those  who 
advocate  their  abandonment  in  favour  of  a  new 
nomenclature.  It  will  of  course  be  understood  that 
in  using  them  we  take  accented  and  unaccented  as 
equivalent  to  long  and  short. 

These  feet  form  the  foundation  of  lines  or  verses, 
which  may  be  called  iambic,  trochaic,  anapaestic, 
dactylic,  and  amphibrachic,  as  the  dominating  move- 
ment is  one  or  another  of  these.  Such  lines  or  verses 
may  then  further  be  described  as  dimeter,  trimeter, 
tetrameter,  pentameter,  heptameter,  and  octameter, 
according  to  the  number  of  feet  of  which  they  are  com- 
posed. Thus,  the  measure  of  In  Memoriam  is  iambic 
tetrameter ;  of  Locksley  Hall,  trochaic  octameter  ;  of 
The  Bridge  of  Sighs,  dactylic  dimeter  ;  our  English 
blank  verse  is  unrimed  iambic  pentameter ;  the  closing 
line    of  the    Spenserian   stanza   (generally  called   an 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  153 

"  alexandrine  ")  is  iambic  hexameter  ;  the  measure  of 
Evangeline^  dactylic  hexameter ;  and  so  on. 

It    must    not    be    forgotten,    however,    nor    is    the 
attentive  student  ever  likely  to  forget,  that     jjetricai 
these  theoretic  systems  are  in  actual  practice     varia- 
subject  to  continual  variation,  and  that  much       *^°' 
of   our    English    poetry,    and    especially    of    modern 
English    poetry,    is    characterised    by   great    metrical 
irregularity.     One  of  the  simplest  and  most  frequently 
occurring  of  all  metrical  phenomena,  even   in  verse- 
structures    marked    by    sustained    uniformity,    is    the 
substitution    of  another   kind  of  foot  for  that  which 
constitutes   the    basic   principle   of   the   verse.     Take 
these    two    lines    from    Akenside's    delightful    little 
poem,  For  a  Grotto,  which  is  written  in  iambic  penta- 
meter:—      ,        '      -^r'  ,  , 

^  -^  ^-^.^         I    ^ 

*'  To  me,  whom  in  their  lays  the  shepherds  call," 
and  '  -V         -3 

"  Lulled  by  the  murmur  of  my  rising  fount"  ; 

and,  though  in  an  ordinary  way  we  read  them  with 
no  suspicion  of  anything  aberrant  in  them,  examina- 
tion at  once  shows  that  in  the  second  foot  of  the 
former  and  in  the  first  foot  of  the  latter,  the  accent 
is  so  changed  that  a  trochee  takes  the  place  of  the 
normal  iambus.  This  kind  of  substitution  is,  in  fact, 
so  common  as  to  pass  unnoticed.^ 

^  Dr  Johnson,  though  of  course  a  great  stickler  for  regularity,  held  that 
a  certain  amount  of  variation  was  justified  by  the  fact  that  in  a  long 
composition  *'we  are  soon  wearied  with  the  perpetual  recurrence  of  the 
same  cadence."  He  was  therefore  willing  to  admit  deviation  from  "the 
rigour  of  exactness  "  in  the  first  foot  of  a  verse,  though  its  introduction 
elsewhere  he  regarded  as  savouring  of  "licentiousness."  See  The 
Rambler,  No.  86,  in  which  he  points  out  that  Milton's  blank  verse 
** seldom  has  two  pure" — that  is,  absolutely  regular — "  lines  together." 


154  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Often  the  accent  is  so  evenly  distributed  between 
two  syllables  in  reading  that  what  may  be  analysed 
as  an  iambic  foot  becomes  practically  a  spondee  ("'), 
as  in  Milton's  line  (cited  by  Johnson) : — 

"  Thus  at  I  their  sha  |  dy  lodge  |  arriv'd,  |  both  stood  |  ," 

and  in  one  recurrent  line  of  Newman's  well-known 
hymn — 

"  The  night  |  is  dark,  |  and  I  |  am  far  |  from  home  |  — 
Lead  Thou  |  me  on  |  ."  ^ 

Frequently  the  entire  character  of  an  iambic  line  may 
be  changed  by  an  additional  number  of  unaccented, 
or  light  syllables,  which  in  such  examples  as — 

"  Myriads  of  |  rivulets  |  hurry  |  ing  through  |  the  lawns  |  " 
and 

"  Of  some  I  precip  |  itous  riv  [  ulet  to  |  the  wave  |  ," 

serve  to  give  to  the  verse,  in  the  one  case  a  dactylic, 
in  the  other  an  anapaestic  movement.  As  an  addition 
of  extra  light  syllables  will  thus  turn  an  iambic  or 
trochaic  foot  into  an  anapaest  or  dactyl,  so  the  omission 
of  a  light  syllable  will  turn  an  anapaest  or  dactyl  into 
an  iambus  or  trochee.  The  facility  with  which  such 
changes  may  be  made  is  therefore  evident.  To  refer 
to  a  single  example,  Tennyson's  Vastness  is  dactylic  : — 

"  Peace,  let  it  |  be !  for  I  |  loved  him,  and  |  love  him  for  |  ever : 
the  I  dead  are  not  |  dead  but  a  |  live  |  ." 

But   there   are  in    fact   very  few  of  such   completely 

^  With  such  a  line  as  this  before  us,  we  may  fairly  question  whether 
the  spondee  ought  not  to  be  added  to  the  list  of  English  feet. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  155 

dactylic    lines,    and    throughout,    trochees    are    freely 
interspersed,  as  in — 

"  Lies  upon  |  this  side,  |  lies  upon  |  that  side,  |  truthless  | 
violence  |  mourn'd  by  the  |  Wise," 
and 

"Household  |  happmess,  |  gracious  |  children,  |  debtless  |  com- 
petence, I  golden  I  mean." 
The  frequent  intermixture  of  iambic  and  anapaestic  feet 
has  been,  since  Coleridge  introduced  it  in  Christabel} 
and  Scott  gave  it  vogue  by  The  Lay  of  the  Last 
Minstrel,  one  of  the  most  common  characteristics  of 
octosyllabic  poetry,  of  the  now  familiar  free  movement 
of  which  the  following  passage  may  be  taken  as  a 
type  :— 

"  And  Christ  |  abel  saw  |  the  la  |  dy's  eye,  | 
And  noth  |  ing  else  |  she  saw  |  thereby,  | 
Save  the  boss  |  on  the  shield  |  of  Sir  Li  |  onel  tall,  | 
Which  hung  [  on  a  murk  |  y  old  niche  |  in  the  hall  |  ." 

^  **  I  have  only  to  add,"  Coleridge  explains  in  his  preface  to  the  poem, 
"that  the  metre  of  Christabel  is  not,  properly  speaking,  irregular,  though 
it  may  seem  so  from  its  being  founded  on  a  new  principle,  namely,  that 
of  counting  in  each  line  the  accents,  not  the  syllables.  Though  the  latter 
may  vary  from  seven  to  twelve,  yet  in  each  line  the  accents  will  be  found 
to  be  only  four.  Nevertheless  this  occasional  variation  in  number  of 
syllables  is  not  introduced  wantonly,  or  for  the  mere  ends  of  convenience, 
but  in  correspondence  with  some  transition  in  the  nature  of  the  imagery 
or  passion."  Scott  heard  portions  of  the  then  unpublished  Christabel 
recited  by  a  friend,  and  was  so  enchanted  by  "the  singularly  irregular 
structure  of  the  stanza,  and  the  liberty  which  it  allowed  the  author  to 
adapt  the  sound  to  the  sense,"  that  he  at  once  borrowed  it  for  his  Lay, 
afterwards  making  "the  acknowledgment  due  from  the  pupil  to  his 
master."  The  principle  in  question  was  not,  however,  so  entirely  novel 
as  Coleridge  fancied.  For  Mr  Watts- Dunton's  theory  that  it  was  dis- 
covered by  Chatterton,  see  his  introduction  to  selections  from  "  the 
marvellous  boy  "  in  Ward's  English  Poets,  vol.  iii. 


156  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Sometimes  the  unaccented  syllable  may  be  dropped 
even  from  a  dissyllabic  foot,  and  its  place  supplied  in 
reading  by  a  pause,  or  the  dwelling  of  the  voice  upon 
the  accented  word  ;  as  in  Tennyson's 

"  Break,  break,  break, 
On  thy  cold  grey  stones,  O  sea  ! " 
and 

"  Birds  in  the  high  Hall-garden 
When  twilight  was  falling, 
Maud,  Maud,  Maud,  Maud, 
They  were  crying  and  calling." 

In  much  trisyllabic  verse,  moreover,  the  interchange 
of  the  three  kinds  of  foot  is  so  continual  that  one 
almost  hesitates  to  describe  the  metre  by  any  single 
term.  Thus  in  the  first  four  lines  of  Byron's  The 
Bride  of  Abydos — 

"  Know  ye  the  land  where  the  Cyprus  and  myrtle 

Are  emblems  of  deeds  that  are  done  in  their  clime? 
Where  the  rage  of  the  vulture,  the  love  of  the  turtle. 
Now  melt  into  sorrow,  now  madden  to  crime?" — 

the  first  line,  as  will  be  seen,  is  dactylic,  the  second 
Tind  fourth,  amphibrachic,  the  third,  anapaestic. 

These  few  examples  will  suffice  to  introduce  the 
question  of  metrical  variation,  which,  of  all  questions 
connected  with  the  subject  of  versification,  is  at 
once  perhaps  the  most  fascinating  and  the  most 
difficult. 

It  is  commonly  recognized  that  each  of  our  five 
principal  measures  has  its  own  distinctive  quality,  and 
therefore  its  special  fitness  for  particular  purposes. 
The  triple  metres,  owing  to  their  greater  number  of 
unstressed  syllables,  are  undoubtedly  lighter  and  more 
rapid  in  movement  than  the  dissyllabic.     This  explains 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  157 

why  the  introduction  of  anapaestic  or  dactylic  feet  into 
iambic  verse  tends  to  render  it  more  swift  and 
graceful ;  which  in  turn  shows  the  inner  istics  ©f 
motive  of  the  variation  in  metre  in  Tennyson's  Different 
two  lines  about  the  rivulets,  quoted  above. 
It  is  possible  still  further  to  distinguish  differences  in 
aesthetic  character  and  effect  within  the  two  groups  ; 
and  thus  we  find  critics  describing  the  iambic  measure 
as  smooth,  dignified,  and  stately,  and  the  trochaic  as 
energetic  and  abrupt ;  the  anapaestic  as  swift  and 
forcible,  the  dactylic  as  airy  and  graceful,  and  the 
amphibrachic  as  swinging  and  free.  On  these  matters, 
it  is  true,  it  is  rather  hazardous  to  generalise,  for  we  do 
not  have  to  go  far  in  our  practical  study  of  poetry  before 
we  discover  that  every  form  of  metre  has  a  much  wider 
range  of  power  than  such  abstract  statements  would 
suggest.  Iambic  measure,  for  instance — the  standard 
verse  of  English  poetry — has  been  used  with  complete 
success  for  all  kinds  of  subjects  "  from  grave  to  gay, 
from  lively  to  severe  "  ;  while  examples  are  not  want- 
ing to  prove  that  the  lighter  trisyllabic  metres  are  often 
(as  in  Tennyson's  Vastness,  Arnold's  The  Future^  and 
Cosmo  Monkhouse's  A  Dead  March)  singularly  effec- 
tive as  vehicles  for  solemn  meditation  and  feelings  of 
tenderness  and  sorrow.  On  the  principle  that  the 
connection  between  matter  and  form  in  poetry  is  an 
organic  one,  the  question  of  the  propriety  and  aesthetic 
value  of  the  verse  employed  in  a  given  case  is,  there- 
fore, of  the  utmost  interest.  Similarly,  in  our  study 
of  any  poet  it  will  always  be  worth  while  to  consider 
the  measures  most  frequently  and  most  successfully 
used  by  him,  and  their  relation  to  the  characteristic 
qualities  of  his  temper  and  genius. 


158  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUKE 

While  metre  is  an  essential  concomitant  of  poetry, 
rime  ^  is  to  be  regarded  as  only  an  accessory ; 
yet  it  is  so  common  an  accessory  in  English 
verse,  and  in  most  of  its  forms,  indeed,  so  nearly 
constant  a  feature,  that  its  importance  can  hardly  be 
overstated.  It  adds  much  to  the  beauty  of  poetry  as 
"  musical  speech,"  and  therefore  to  the  pleasure  which 
poetry  affords.  It  has  also  frequently  been  pointed 
out  that,  by  marking  distinctly  the  close  of  lines  and 
stanzas,  it  helps  to  emphasise  rhythm. 

Rime  is  the  correspondence  in  sound  between 
syllable  and  syllable ;  the  conditions  being :  identity 
in  vowel  sound,  and,  if  the  words  end  in  a  consonant 
or  consonants,  in  these  also  ;  as  in  see^  me^  ark^  mark  ; 
difference  in  the  consonant  or  consonants,  if  any,  pre- 
ceding the  vowel,  as  in  ray,  stray  ;  similarity  of  accent, 
as  in  ringing,  singing,  beautiful,  dutiful ;  identity  in 
the  syllable  or  syllables,  if  any,  which  follow  the 
accent,  as  in  the  illustrations  just  given.  Thus, 
singer  and  ringing,  dutiful  and  beautify,  are  not  rimes,, 
Rimes,  as  will  be  seen,  may  be  single  (or  "  masculine," 
as  they  are  sometimes  called),  as  ring,  sing ;  or  double 
("feminine"),  as  ringing,  singing;  or  triple  as  un- 
fortunate, importunate.  These  different  kinds  may  be 
employed  at  the  discretion  of  the  poet  in  different 
ways.  A  poem  may  be  entirely  in  single  rimes,  or  in 
double,  or  in  triple  ;  or  different  kinds  may  be  intro- 
duced in  regular  alternation  ;  or  the  alternation  may 
be  occasional  and  arbitrary.  A  large  proportion  of 
double  or  triple  rimes  unquestionably  adds  lightness 

^  It  is  perhaps  desirable  that  I  should  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  I 
have  ventured  to  discard  a  long-standing  error,  and  to  spell  this  word  in 
the  only  correct  way. 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  159 

and  rapidity  to  the  verse,  and  on  general  principles, 
therefore,  we  should  expect  to  find  them  sparingly- 
used  in  poems  of  a  markedly  serious  or  melancholy 
character.  Yet  no  hard  and  fast  rule  can  be  laid 
down.  Mrs  Browning's  Cowper's  Grave,  for  example, 
is  entirely  in  double  rimes  ;  but  every  reader  must 
feel  that  they  serve  here  to  deepen,  not  to  interfere 
with,  the  subdued  elegiac  tone.^  Double  and  triple 
rimes  which  are  too  obviously  ingenious  and  far- 
fetched, always  produce  a  grotesque  effect,  and  are 
therefore  admirably  adapted  to  the  purposes  of 
burlesque,  as  in  Butler's  Hudibras.  Browning's  fre- 
quent recourse  to  them  in  the  treatment  of  high  and 
solemn  themes  was  a  perverse  habit,  often  attended 
with  disastrous  results. 

A  stanza  (commonly,  though  incorrectly,  called  a 
verse)  is  a  group  of  lines  forming  within  itself 
a  unit  of  organisation.  In  many  cases  the 
stanzas  composing  a  poem  are  quite  irregular  alike  in 
length  and  structure,  as  in  Wordsworth's  Ode  on  the 
Intimations  of  Immoi'tality  and  Tennyson's  Maud.  But 
as  a  rule  (poems  in  blank  verse  being  excepted),  a 
poem  is  built  up  of  sections  strictly  identical  in  form. 
Regular  stanzas  are  commonly  defined  by  the  number 
of  their  lines  and  the  disposition  of  the  rimes  which 
bind  these  lines  together.  The  stanza-forms  of 
English  poetry  are  so  numerous  and  varied  that  no 
complete  tabulation  of  them  could  be  attempted  here  ; 
but  the  following  may  be  mentioned  as  some  of  the 
best-known    examples  : — the  couplet   (riming   aa)^  as 

^  Though  we  are  here  confining  our  attention  to  English  poetry,  we 
may  just  note  the  fact  that  Dante's  Divine  Comedy  is  in  double  rimes,  as 
are  also  the  great  Latin  hymns  {e.g.  Dies  Ira)  of  the  Middle  Ages. 


i6o  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

in  Pope's  Essay  on  Man  and  Keats's  Endymion ;  the 
triplet  {aaa)^  as  in  Tennyson's  Two  Voices;  the 
quatrain  in  various  forms,  as,  e.g.  that  of  Keats's  La 
Belle  Dame  sans  Merci  {abcb)  ;  that  of  Gray's  Elegy 
{abab) ;  that  of  hi  Memoriam  {abba)  ;  that  of 
FitzGerald's  version  of  the  Rubdiydt  (aaba) ;  the  six- 
line  stanza  in  various  forms,  as,  e.g.,  that  of  Byron's 
"  She  walks  in  Beauty  "  {ababab)  ;  that  of  Browning's 
Rabbi  Ben  Ezra  {aabaab) ;  that  of  Southey's  The  Scholar 
{ababcc) ;  and  a  form  much  used  by  Burns  (aaabab) ; 
the  eight-line  stanza  (abababcc\  as  in  Byron's  Don  Juan  ; 
the  nine-line  stanza  (ababbcbcc),  first  used  in  The  Faery 
Queene^  and  hence  commonly  called  the  "  Spenserian." 
For  a  proper  classification  of  stanzas,  the  relative 
lengths  of  the  lines  would  also  of  course  have  to  be 
taken  into  consideration.  Thus  it  is  not  only  the  rime- 
scheme  but  also  the  peculiar  arrangement  of  the  metres 
(three  tetrameters,  a  dimeter,  a  tetrameter,  a  dimeter), 
which  gives  its  special  character  to  the  six-line 
"  Burns  "  stanza  ;  while  the  closing  alexandrine  must 
be  emphasised  as  a  constituent  feature  of  the  Spen- 
serian stanza.  It  will  be  remembered  that  in  the 
language  of  our  hymnals,  the  octosyllabic  quatrain  (or 
measure  of  "  eights  ")  is  called  "  long  measure  "  ;  the 
quatrain  of  alternate  "  eights  "  and  "  sixes,"  "  com- 
mon measure "  ;  the  quatrain  of  "  sixes,"  "  short 
measure." 

Apart  altogether  from  any  question  of  their  special 
propriety,  otherwise  considered,  stanzas  may  be  used 
with  a  sense  of  their  traditional  significance,  or 
significance  of  literary  association.  It  is  with  such  a 
sense  of  fitness  that  Byron  takes  Dante's  interwoven 
triplets  {aba,  bcb,  cdc^  ded,  etc.)  for  his  Prophecy  of  Dante ^ 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  i6i 

and  the  "  Italian "  stanza  {abababcc)  for  his  Beppo ; 
that  Keats  chooses  the  same  form  for  his  Isabella^  and 
the  Spenserian  stanza  for  his  Eve  of  St  Agnes  ;  and 
that  Wordsworth,  Longfellow,  and  William  Watson  all 
employ  the  "  Burns "  stanza  for  memorial  poems  on 
the  great  Scots  poet.  But  in  a  more  general  way  the 
problem  of  the  aesthetic  qualities  of  different  stanzas, 
and  their  applicability  to  particular  purposes,  will 
always  have  to  be  investigated.  In  a  poet's  choice  of 
metres  and  stanzas  alike,  we  shall  furthermore  find  a 
great  deal  of  interesting  food  for  thought.  Rossetti's 
frequent  use  of  intricate  and  curious  structures,  heavily 
weighted  with  rimes,  is  itself  an  index  of  the  exotic  char- 
acter of  his  genius  and  the  fastidious  element  in  his 
art.  Longfellow's  wide  reading,  eclecticism,  power  of 
absorption,  and  lack  of  originality  are  all  indicated  by 
the  fact  that  he  experimented  with  marked  success  in 
an  astonishing  number  of  metrical  forms,  derived  from 
nearly  all  the  literatures  of  Europe,  while  he  struck 
out  none  of  any  importance  for  himself  The  use  of 
different  stanzas  at  different  periods  has  also  a  great 
historical  significance.  The  publication  of  some  fifty 
poems,  small  and  large,  in  the  Spenserian  form,  and 
often  on  subjects  for  which  that  form  was  not  in  the 
least  appropriate,  in  the  half  century  between  1725 
and  1775,  is  itself  a  sign  of  awakening  interest  during 
those  years  in  Spenser  and  his  work.  The  history  of 
the  iambic  pentameter  (or  "  heroic ")  couplet,  from 
the  Augustan  to  the  Romantic  age,  is  familiar  to 
every  student  of  English  poetry.  In  its  "  classic " 
form,  as  perfected  by  Pope, — the  form  in  which  the 
sense  ended  with  almost  absolute  regularity  at  the  end 
of  every  second  line, — it  favoured  epigrammatic  terse- 

L 


1 62  THE  STUDY  OF  LTTEEATURE 

ness  and  force,  and  was  thus  an  admirable  instrument 
in  the  hands  of  writers  of  satire  and  gnomic  verse. 
The  rise  of  the  "  romantic "  form,  reintroduced  by- 
Leigh  Hunt  and  Keats, — the  form  in  which  the  sense 
was  allowed  to  flow  on  uninterrupted  from  one  couplet 
to  another  indefinitely,  while  the  rhetorical  pause  could 
occur  in  any  part  of  a  line, — was  simply  one  more 
indication  of  that  general  quest  for  greater  freedom 
and  more  variety  in  the  harmonies  of  versification 
which  had  already  given  popularity  to  blank  verse 
and  the  Spenserian  stanza. 

We  have  said  that  rime,  though  an  important 
accessory  of  English  poetry,  is  not  essential  to  it. 
This  is  shown  by  the  large  amount  of  poetry,  including 
much  of  the  most  important  poetry  in  the  language, 
which  is  without  rime.  The  principal  form  of  unrimed 
Blank  verse  is  the  iambic  pentameter,  popularly  called 
Verse.  «  blank  verse."  But  other  kinds  exist ;  such 
as  the  trochaic  tetrameter  of  The  Song  of  Hiawatha; 
the  dactylic  hexameter  (often  loosely  called  "  hexa- 
meter "  simply)  of  Longfellow's  Evangeline^  Kingsley's 
Andromeda,  and  Clough's  Bothie  of  Tober-na-Vuolich  ; 
the  irregular  measures  of  Southey's  Thalaba  the 
Destroyer^  Shelley's  Queen  Mab,  and  some  of  Arnold's 
poems,  like  The  Strayed  Reveller  and  The  Future, 
These,  however,  have  no  established  place  in  English 
poetry,  unless,  indeed,  an  exception  be  made  in  favour 
of  the  dactylic  hexameter,  which  I  personally  hold  to 
have  justified  itself  completely,  though  many  fierce 
critical  attacks  have  been  made  upon  it.^ 

^  For  some  interesting  remarks  on  the  English  hexameter,  see  Arnold's 
On  Translating  Homer .  For  the  study  of  English  versification  in  general, 
the  reader  may  be  referred  to  E.   Guest's  History  of  English  Rhythms 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  163 

The  study  of  versification  does  not,  of  course,  ex- 
haust the  interest  of  poetry  on  the  technical 

.  ,         ^,  .     ^        -' .  .         .  other 

side.     There  are  innumerable  other  matters  Aspects  of 

which  are  equally  deserving  of  attention.  !!°®?*\ 
There  is,  for  instance,  the  whole  vast  problem 
of  poetic  diction ;  of  the  qualities  which  make  it 
peculiarly  strong  or  tender,  passionate  or  beautiful ;  of 
the  specific  differences  between  it  and  the  diction  of 
prose ;  of  the  mysterious  power  of  certain  words  and 
combinations  of  words,  whether  through  association  or 
through  sound,  to  stir  the  imagination  and  go  home 
to  the  heart ;  of  the  "  natural  magic  "  of  expression 
which  belongs  to  the  rare  moments  of  highest  inspira- 
tion, and  that  final  felicity  of  phrasing  by  which 
language  is  steeped  in  meanings  beyond  the  formal 
definitions  of  the  lexicographer.  Since  the  diction  of 
poetry  is  inevitably  figurative  and  allusive,  those  figures 
of  speech  and  subtle  suggestions  and  innuendoes  which 
are  so  important  an  element  in  its  texture,  have  also 
to  be  considered  from  the  point  of  view  alike  of  their 
sources  and  of  their  aesthetic  value.  And  as  further 
illustrations  of  the  manifold  interest  of  the  lines  of 
inquiry  which  I  am  now  seeking  just  to  open  up, 
mention  may  be  made  of  such  details  of  poetic  style 
as  the  varied  use  of  consonants  and  vowels  in  the 
production  of  special  effects,  and  of  the  service  which, 
in  the  hands  of  an  accomplished  master,  may  be 
rendered  by  "  apt  alliteration's  artful  aid." 

(2nd  ed.,  revised  by  Slceat) ;  J.  B.  Mayor's  Chapters  on  English  Metn; 
F.  B.  Gumraere's  Handbook  of  Poetics  ;  H.  Corson's  Primer  of  English 
Verse ;  R.  Bridges'  Milton's  Prosody ;  J.  A.  Symonds's  Blank  Verse ; 
S  chipper 's  Englische  Metrik. 


i64  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEKATURE 

VI 

Regarding  the  systematic  study  of  poetry,  enough 
has  already  been  said,  either  statedly  or  by  implica- 
tion, in  our  chapters  on  the  study  of  literature  in 
general.  All  that  is  necessary,  therefore,  is  to  point 
out  how,  on  the  principles  laid  down  for  guidance, 
various  plans  may  be  suggested  for  definite  courses  of 
reading. 

We  may,  for  example,  take  up  the  work  of  a  single 
The  study  poet,  and  our  business  will  then  be  to  analyse 
of  Poetry,  the  content  of  his  writings  and  investigate 
the  salient  qualities  of  his  art  ;  to  examine  his  literary 
ancestry  and  affiliations ;  to  trace  to  their  sources 
the  derivative  elements  in  his  thought  and  style;  and 
to  consider  his  relations  with  the  spirit  and  movements 
of  his  time.  After  this,  we  may  pass  from  him  to 
the  other  poets  of  his  age,  taking  his  work,  point  by 
point,  as  a  foundation  for  comparison  and  contrast. 
Or  we  may  make  an  historical  study  of  some  great 
body  of  poetry,  like  our  English  poetry,  following  its 
ebb  and  flow  from  epoch  to  epoch,  and  the  rise  and 
decline  of  schools,  methods,  and  traditions  ;  noting 
every  significant  change  in  subject-matter,  spirit,  and 
style ;  and  seeking  its  explanation  in  the  initiative 
power  of  particular  men,  in  the  circumstances  which 
helped  to  give  them  popularity  and  influence,  and  in 
the  larger  tendencies  of  life  and  thought  in  the  world 
outside.  Or,  limiting  our  field  of  inquiry  on  one  side 
while  broadening  it  on  another,  we  may  devote  our 
attention  to  the  history  of  some  one  great  poetic  form, 
such  as  the  epic  or  the  elegy,  through  the  whole  course 
of  its  evolution  and  transformation  in  different  litera- 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  165 

tures  and   at   different   times.       Or,    again,    we  may 

select  some  special  theme — the  treatment  of  nature  in 

poetry,  for   example — and  make  this  the  basis  of  a 

study  which,  as  we  shall  soon  discover,  will  branch  out 

in  various  directions,  and  connect  itself  at  many  points 

with  the  consideration  of  the  development  of  literature 

at  large. 

These  are  some  of  the  ways  in  which  our  reading 

of  poetry   may    be    systematised,   and    thus 

made   at    once    more   interesting   and    more    Apprecia- 

profitable   than   it    would  otherwise   be.     A    tio^iof 
^  Poetry, 

warning,  already  given,  should  none  the  less 

be  here  repeated.  However  far  afield  we  may  pursue 
our  researches,  however  wide  and  accurate  our  know- 
ledge of  the  development  and  technique  of  poetry 
may  become,  however  engrossing  we  may  find  the 
special  problems  of  the  historian  and  the  critic,  we  must 
never  forget  that  our  chief  purpose,  after  all,  should 
be  the  enjoyment  of  poetry  as  poetry — of  poetry  for 
its  own  sake,  as  a  thing  of  beauty  fraught  with  infinite 
meanings  for  those  who  have  the  capacity  to  feel  and 
the  heart  to  understand.  More  important,  then,  than 
all  the  acquisitions  of  scholarship  is  the  cultivation  of 
the  faculty  of  poetic  appreciation.  On  this  matter, 
indeed,  it  is  of  little  use  to  discourse  in  the  abstract ; 
for  though  the  lover  of  poetry  may,  by  personal 
contact,  transmit  something  of  his  enthusiasm  to 
others,  rules  and  counsels  will  prove  of  slight  service 
to  those  who  need  them  most,  and  in  the  end  each 
reader  must  be  left,  very  largely,  to  himself.  Perhaps 
the  most  valuable  of  all  suggestions  that  may  be 
thrown  out  in  the  way  of  help  is  one  so  simple  and 
obvious  that,  but  for  the  fact  that  its  practical  bearings 


i66  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

are  seldom  realised,  it  would  hardly  call  for  formal 
statement.  In  our  reading  of  poetry  we  should 
always  remember  that  the  poet  appeals  directly  to  the 
poet  in  ourselves,  and  that  our  real  enjoyment  of 
poetry  therefore  depends  upon  our  own  keenness  of 
imaginative  apprehension  and  emotional  response. 
This  means  that  the  true  secret  and  virtue  of  a  poem 
are  to  be  seized  and  appropriated  by  us  only  through 
the  exercise  on  our  parts  of  powers  similar  in  kind  to 
those  which  gave  the  poem  life,  however  far  they  may 
fall  short  of  these  in  strength  and  vitality.  To  those 
who  are  born  without  any  poetic  sense  at  all,  it  is,  of 
course,  as  futile  to  talk  about  the  beauty  and  meaning 
of  poetry  as  it  is  to  talk  about  the  beauty  and  mean- 
ing of  music  to  those  who  are  born  without  a  musical 
ear.  But  wherever  the  poetic  sense  exists,  in  however 
rudimentary  a  form — and  it  is  at  least  latent  in  the 
majority  of  normally  constituted  men  and  women — it 
is  capable  of  cultivation  ;  and  for  its  cultivation  no 
better  course  can  be  proposed  than  its  daily  exercise 
in  sympathetic  contact  with  great  poetry.  Thus  we 
learn  to  appreciate  through  appreciation  and  to  enjoy 
through  enjo3^ment.  In  this  case  the  end  and  the 
means  are  one. 

A  word  of  practical  advice  on  a  matter  of  detail 
may  be  added.  "  The  art  of  printing,"  as  Prof 
Butcher  has  pointed  out,  "  has  done  much  to  dull  our 
literary  perceptions.  Words  have  a  double  virtue — 
that  which  resides  in  the  sense  and  that  which  resides 
in  the  sound.  We  miss  much  of  the  charm  if  the  eye 
is  made  to  do  duty  also  for  the  ear.  The  words, 
bereft  of  their  vocal  force,  are  but  half  alive  on  the 
printed   page.     The    music  of  verse,    when   repeated 


THE  STUDY  OF  POETRY  167 

only  to  the  inward  ear,  comes  as  a  faint  echo."  ^ 
The  moral  of  this  is  clear.  If  poetry  is  "  musical 
speech,"  if  it  owes  much  of  its  beauty,  its  magic,  its 
peculiar  power  of  stirring  the  feelings  and  arousing 
the  imagination,  to  its  verbal  felicity  and  its  varied 
melodies  of  metre  and  rime,  then  its  full  significance 
as  poetry  can  be  appreciated  only  when  it  addresses 
us  through  the  ear.  The  silent  perusal  of  the  printed 
page  will  leave  one  of  its  principal  secrets  unsurprised. 
As  much  as  possible,  therefore,  we  should  make  it  a 
practice  to  read  our  poetry  aloud. 

'^ Harvard  Lectures,  pp.  229,  230.  "It  is  a  fact  but  little  known," 
the  writer  continues,  "that  throughout  the  Greek  period,  and  far  into  the 
days  of  the  Roman  Empire — to  the  third  and  fourth  century  of  our  era — 
the  custom  survived  of  reading  both  prose  and  verse,  not  silently,  but 
aloud  and  in  company.  There  is  a  curious  passage  in  Augustine's 
Confessions — one  of  the  few  in  ancient  liturature  where  silent  reading  is 
mentioned.  He  there  tells  of  the  difficulty  he  had  in  getting  access  to 
his  master  Ambrose,  whose  rare  hours  of  leisure  were  spent  in  reading, 
and  who  was  one  day  observed  to  run  his  eye  silently  over  the  page  while 
'  his  voice  and  tongue  were  still.'  Various  reasons  are  then  suggested  to 
account  for  so  strange  a  departure  from  the  common  practice."  The 
reference  is  to  the  Confessions,  VI.  iii. ,  where  we  read  :  "  His  eyes  scanned 
the  pages,  but  his  voice  and  tongue  were  silent.  .  .  .  Whatever  the  reason, 
no  doubt  it  was  a  good  one  in  such  a  man." 


CHAPTER    IV 

THE    STUDY    OF    PROSE    FICTION 
I 

IN  any  historical  study  of  literary  forms  the  drama, 
as  the  earlier  to  evolve,  should  of  course  take 
precedence  of  the  novel.  As  a  matter  of  con- 
venience, however,  we  will  here  reverse  the  chrono- 
he  Novel  ^^S^^^^  order  and  deal  with  the  novel  first, 
and  the  Manifestly,  the  drama  and  prose  fiction  are 
rama.  compounded  of  the  same  raw  materials.  In 
this  chapter,  though  our  immediate  business  is  with 
the  novel,  we  shall  therefore  of  necessity  have 
much  to  say  about  characteristics  which  are  common 
to  both  of  them,  and  to  some  extent  it  will  thus  serve 
as  an  introduction  also  to  the  study  of  the  drama. 
But  quite  as  manifestly,  owing  to  differences  in  con- 
ditions, the  raw  materials  in  drama  and  prose  fiction 
are  treated  in  very  different  ways.  In  the  chapter 
which  follows  we  shall  therefore  have  to  take  up  our 
subject  at  the  point  where  they  part  company  and 
consider  the  drama  as  a  specific  form  of  literary  art. 

We  have  already  seen  that  the  novel  owes  its 
existence  to  the  interest  which  men  and  women 
everywhere  and  at  all  times  have  taken  in  men  and 
women  and  in  the  great  panorama  of  human  passion 
and    action.     This    interest,   as   we    have  noted,   has 

i68 


THE  STUDY  OF  PBOSE  FICTION  169 

always  been  one  of  the  most  general  and  most  power- 
ful of  the  impulses  behind  literature,  and  it  has  thus 
given  rise,  according  to  changing  social  and  artistic 
circumstances,  to  various  modes  of  expression — here 
to  epic  and  there  to  drama,  now  to  ballad  and  now  to 
romance.  Latest  to  develop  of  all  these  modes,  the 
novel  is  also  the  largest  and  fullest  of  them.  This 
statement  may  perhaps  be  challenged  by  reference  to 
the  drama.  But  apart  from  many  other  considerations, 
which  we  need  not  now  discuss,  it  must  be  re- 
membered that  the  drama  is  not  pure  literature.  It 
is  a  compound  art,  in  which  the  literary  element  is 
organically  bound  up  with  the  elements  of  stage 
setting  and  histrionic  interpretation.  The  novel  is 
independent  of  these  secondary  arts ;  it  is,  as 
Marion  Crawford  once  happily  phrased  it,  a  "  pocket 
theatre,"  containing  within  itself  not  only  plot  and 
actors,  but  also  costume,  scenery,  and  all  the  other 
accessories  of  a  dramatic  representation.  This  point 
has  important  bearings  upon  the  comparative  study 
of  the  novel  and  the  drama.  Evidently  such  com- 
plete immunity  from  those  conditions  of  the  stage  to 
which  the  drama  is  bound  by  the  very  law  of  its 
being,  and  by  which  it  is  everywhere  hampered,  gives 
to  the  novel  a  freedom  of  movement,  a  breadth,  and  a 
flexibility  to  which,  even  in  its  most  romantic  develop- 
ments, the  drama  cannot  possibly  attain.  What  the 
novel  loses  in  actuality  and  vividness  by  its  substitu- 
tion of  narrative  for  representation  it  thus  amply 
makes  up  for  in  other  ways.  This,  is  of  course,  one 
reason  why  the  novel  has  largely  displaced  the  drama, 
as  it  has  displaced  other  vehicles  for  the  expression 
of  our    common     interest    in   human    life,    and    has 


170  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

established  itself  as  the  principal  literary  form  of  our 
complex  and  many-sided  modern  world.  It  is  equally 
evident  that  we  can  thus  explain  one  essential  differ- 
ence between  the  novel  and  the  drama  which  it  is 
necessary  for  the  student  of  either  to  keep  well  in 
mind.  The  drama  is  the  most  rigorous  form  of 
literary  art ;  prose  fiction  is  the  loosest.  It  is  a 
familiar  fact  that  for  the  writing  of  a  play  a  long 
preliminary  discipline  in  technique  and  a  thorough 
knowledge  of  the  stage  are  requisite,  while  anyone 
can  write  a  novel  who  has  pens,  ink,  and  paper  at 
command,  and  a  certain  amount  of  leisure  and 
patience.  The  moral  of  this  on  the  critical  side  is 
that  while  it  is  relatively  easy  to  draw  out  and  formu- 
late the  laws  of  the  drama  and  the  standards  by 
which  it  is  to  be  judged,  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  do 
this  in  the  case  of  the  novel.  Yet  some  laws  and 
standards  there  are,  none  the  less,  even  for  this  most 
elastic  and  irregular  of  all  the  great  forms  of  literary 
expression,  and  it  must  now  be  our  business  to  seek 
out  and  illustrate  the  more  general  and  important 
of  these. 

Though  it  is  necessary  to  do  so  only  in  the  way 
The  ^^  ^    reminder,   we  will    begin  with   a  brief 

fiiements     statement  of  the  principal    elements    which 

ic  ion.  gj^^gj.  jj^|.Q  ^j^g  composition  of  a  novel.      In 

this  analysis,  as  will  be  seen,  we  are  also  tabulating 
the  principal  elements  which  enter  into  the  composi- 
tion of  the  drama. 

In  the  first  place,  the  novel  deals  with  events  and 
actions,  with  things  which  are  suffered  and  done  ;  and 
these  constitute  what  we  commonly  call  the  plot. 
Secondly,    such    things    happen    to    people    and    are 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  171 

suffered  or  done  by  people  ;  and  the  naen  and  women 
who  thus  carry  on  the  action  form  its  dramatis 
personcB^  or  characters.  The  conversation  of  these 
characters  introduces  a  third  element — that  of 
dialogue,  often  so  closely  connected  with  characterisa- 
tion as  to  be  an  integral  part  of  it.  Fourthly,  the 
action  must  take  place,  and  the  characters  must  do 
and  suffer,  somewhere  and  at  some  time  ;  and  thus 
we  have  a  scene  and  a  time  of  action.  The  element 
of  style  may  be  put  next  on  our  list ;  and  with  this 
it  might  seem  that  for  practical  purposes  our  analysis 
is  complete.  But  there  still  remains  a  sixth  com- 
ponent to  which  too  much  importance  can  hardly  be 
attached.  Directly  or  indirectly,  and  whether  the 
writer  himself  is  conscious  of  it  or  not,  every  novel 
must  necessarily  present  a  certain  view  of  life  and 
of  some  of  the  problems  of  life  ;  that  is,  it  must  so 
exhibit  incidents,  characters,  passions,  motives,  as  to 
reveal  more  or  less  distinctly  the  way  in  which  the 
author  looks  out  upon  the  world  and  his  general 
attitude  towards  it.  It  is  difficult  to  find  a  name  for 
this  sixth  element  which  is  altogether  satisfactory,  for 
whatever  may  be  suggested,  we  are  in  danger  of 
implying  too  little  or  too  much.  But  postponing 
any  discussion  of  this  till  we  reach  it  in  our  proper 
course,  we  will  for  the  present  call  this  the  novelist's 
criticism,  or  interpretation,  or  philosophy  of  life. 

Plot,  characters,  dialogue,  time  and  place  of  action, 
style^  and""  a  Stated  orTmplied"pHilosop11y*bf  lifeT'tffen, 
are  the  chief  elements  entering  into  the  composition 
of  any  work  of  prose  fiction,  small  or  great,  good  or 
bad.  Omitting  the  element  of  style,  which,  as  common 
to  all  kinds  of  literature,  need  not  detain  us  here,  we 


172  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

will  take  the  other  components  one  by  one  and  consider 
some  of  the  questions  which  naturally  arise  in  connec- 
tion with  each  of  them  in  any  novel  we  may  select  for 
our  study. 

II 

In  dealing  with  the  element  of  plot  our  first  business 
will  always  be  with  the  nature  of  the  raw  material  out  of 
which  it  is  made  and  with  the  quality  of  such  material 
when  judged  by  the  standards  furnished  by  life  itself. 

Take,  for  example,  the  works  of  four  of  the  greatest 
Subject-  novelists  who  wrote  in  English  during  the 
matter  in  last  century — Dickens,  Thackeray,  George 
Fiction.  -gjj^^^  ^^^  Nathaniel  Hawthorne.  It  is  im- 
mediately evident  that  these  four  writers  drew  their 
subjects  from  widely  different  aspects  of  life  and 
classes  of  incident ;  and  as  we  turn  from  David 
Copperfield  to  Vanity  Fair^  and  from  these  again  to 
Adam  Bede  and  The  Scarlet  Letter ^  we  feel  that  with 
each  transition  we  are  passing,  not  only  from  one 
kind  of  plot-interest  to  another,  but  even  from  one 
kind  of  world  to  another.  Yet  with  all  their  differ- 
ences in  matter  and  method,  Dickens  and  Thackeray, 
George  Eliot  and  Hawthorne  are  at  one  in  this — their 
themes  possess  in  themselves  a  substantial  value  and 
a  genuine  human  meaning  because  they  are  concerned, 
not  with  the  mere  trivialities  which  lie  upon  the  surface 
of  existence,  but  with  passions,  conflicts  and  problems 
which,  however  their  forms  may  change,  belong  to  the 
essential  texture  of  life.  Deduced  from  the  funda- 
mental conception  of  literature  as  an  interpretation  of 
life,  the  elementary  test  thus  suggested  is  of  universal 
applicability,  for  it  is  the  certain  mark  of  a  great  novel, 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  173 

as  of  all  great  literature,  that,  wide  as  may  be  the 
range  of  its  accessory  topics,  it  is  primarily  engaged 
with  the  things  which  make  life  strenuous,  intense, 
and  morally  significant.  This  does  not,  of  course, 
mean  that  greatness  in  fiction  depends  in  the  least 
upon  the  external  importance  of  its  incidents  and 
characters.  Life  may  be  as  strenuous,  intense,  and 
morally  significant  in  the  simplest  story  of  the  humblest 
people  as  in  the  largest  movements  of  history  or  the 
most  thrilling  situations  of  the  heroic  stage ;  and  in 
the  agony  of  Arthur  Dimmesdale  and  the  pitiful  story 
of  Hetty  Sorrel's  downfall  we  are  quite  as  closely  in 
touch  with  some  of  the  most  powerful  motive-forces  of 
life  as  in  the  fate  of  Macbeth  or  Agamemnon.  Nor 
does  it  mean  that  it  is  to  the  tragic  phases  of 
experience  only  that  a  great  novel  must  be  confined, 
for  the  comedy  of  life  is  often  as  full  of  large  and 
permanent  human  interest  as  its  tragedy.  The 
question  is  one  of  essential  ethical  value,  and  the 
principle  proposed  is  simply  this — that  a  novel  is 
really  great  only  when  it  lays  its  foundations  broad 
and  deep  in  the  things  which  most  constantly  and 
seriously  appeal  to  us  in  the  struggles  and  fortunes  of 
our  common  humanity. 

To  prevent  possible  misapprehension  it  should 
perhaps  be  further  stated  explicitly  that  to  employ  this 
test  and  to  abide  by  its  results  does  not  imply  any 
censorious  denial  of  the  claims  to  a  warm  place  in  our 
affections  of  many  novels  which  would  fail  to  meet  it. 
One  function  of  fiction  is  to  provide  amusement  for  the 
leisure  hour  and  a  welcome  relief  from  the  strain  of 
practical  affairs ;  and  any  novel  which  serves  its 
purpose  in  this  way  may,  on  the  sole  condition  that 


174  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

the  pleasure  it  affords  is  wholesome  and  tonic,  be  held 
to  have  fully  justified  itself.  Moreover,  the  excellence 
of  its  technique,  or  its  dramatic  power,  or  its  excep- 
tional cleverness  in  characterisation,  or  its  abundant 
humour,  or  some  other  outstanding  quality  of  its 
workmanship,  may  suffice  to  lift  an  otherwise  in- 
significant story  to  a  high  rank  in  fictitious  literature. 
These  considerations  must  be  duly  recognised,  and  a 
narrow  and  pedantic  view  of  the  matter  avoided. 
None  the  less,  all  qualifications  admitted,  our  principle 
remains  unimpugned.  Matthew  Arnold's  emphasis 
upon  the  need  of  sound  subject-matter  in  literature  is 
here  very  much  to  the  point.  The  basis  of  true  great- 
ness in  a  novel  is  to  be  sought  in  the  greatness,  or 
substantial  value,  of  its  raw  materials. 

It  is,  however,  clear  that  though  this  is  the  basis, 
greatness  of  subject-matter  will  not  of  itself  ensure  the 
greatness  of  a  novel.  Mastery  of  handling  is  now 
requisite  in  order  that  all  the  varied  possibilities  of  a 
given  theme  may  be  brought  out  to  the  full.  Here,  of 
course,  we  approach  the  whole  question  of  the  making 
of  a  novel,  including  the  two  contributory  elements  of 
individual  power  and  technical  skill.  But  before  we 
come  to  this,  there  is  a  preliminary  problem  to  be 
touched  upon,  since  individual  power  would  be 
wasted  and  technical  skill  exercised  to  little  effect 
unless  they  are  both  supported  by  an  ample  know- 
ledge of  life. 

We  are  thus  brought  back  to  the  cardinal  principle, 
__    J  already  often  emphasised,  of  fidelity  to  one- 

portance  self  and  one's  experiences  as  the  condition  of 
ofFideUty.  g^|j  ^qq^^  work  in  literature.  Because  fiction 
is    fiction    and    not    fact,    it    is    sometimes  carelessly 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  175 

assumed  that  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  fact.  No 
mistake  could  be  more  serious.  Of  the  relations  of 
fiction  to  truth  we  shall,  however,  speak  presently. 
For  the  moment  we  have  merely  to  insist  that  no 
novel  can  be  pronounced,  I  will  not  say  great,  but 
even  excellent  in  its  degree,  whatever  that  may  be,  if 
it  lacks  the  quality  of  "  authenticity."  Whatever 
aspects  of  life  the  novelist  may  choose  to  write  about, 
he  should  write  of  them  with  the  grasp  and  thorough- 
ness which  can  be  secured  only  by  familiarity  with  his 
material.  What  he  is  not  familiar  with  he  should 
leave  alone. 

This  general  principle  has  been  rigorously  inter- 
preted to  mean  that  the  novelist  should  confine  himself 
within  the  field,  however  small,  of  his  own  personal 
first-hand  intercourse  with  the  world,  and  never  allow 
himself  to  stray  beyond  it.  Thus  we  have  George 
Eliot's  well-timed  attack  upon  the  work  of  the  ordinary 
women  novelists  of  her  day ;  they  tried,  she  com- 
plained, to  write  like  men  and  from  the  man's  point  of 
view,  instead  of  taking  their  stand  on  the  fundamental 
difference  of  sex,  with  all  that  this  implies,  and 
endeavouring  to  portray  life  frankly  and  sincerely  as 
a  woman  knows  and  feels  it.^  One  of  the  writers 
whom  for  contrast  she  singles  out  for  special 
praise  may  indeed  be  taken  as  our  supreme 
example  of  unfailing  conscientiousness  in  this  par- 
ticular— that  exquisite  artist  who  was  content  to 
work  upon  "  two  or  three  inches  of  ivory  "  because  her 
knowledge  of  life  was  too  limited  to  provide  material 
for  larger  treatment,  but  whose  novels  may  be  regarded 
as  perfect  in  their  kind  though  they  do  not  fulfil  our 

^  See  her  essays  on  Lady  Novelists  and  Silly  Novels  by  Lady  Novelists. 


176  THE  STUDY  OF  LITER  ATUEE 

first  condition  of  real  greatness  in  fiction.^  Alike  in 
theory  and  practice  Jane  Austen  adhered  strictly 
to  this  principle  of  absolute  fidelity.  When  a 
niece  asked  her  judgment  on  a  manuscript  story, 
she  gave  her  the  characteristic  advice :  "  Let  the 
Portmans  go  to  Ireland  ;  but  as  you  know  nothing  of 
the  manners  there,  you  had  better  not  go  with  them. 
You  will  be  in  danger  of  giving  false  representations." 
Equally  instructive  was  her  own  example.  Save  in 
two  brief  passages  in  The  Watsons^  there  is,  I  believe, 
no  scene  in  all  her  novels  in  which  men  only  are 
described  as  talking  together  and  their  dialogue 
reported.  Her  women  converse  with  other  women, 
and  with  men  ;  but  as  she  had  no  immediate  knowledge 
of  the  behaviour  of  men  among  themselves  in  wholly 
masculine  company,  she  simply  left  the  subject  alone. 
Such  willingness  to  accept  her  limitations  of  knowledge, 
combined  as  it  was  with  equal  willingness  to  accept 
her  limitations  of  power,  goes  far  to  explain  the 
uniform  excellence  of  Jane  Austen's  work. 

How  little  this  principle  of  fidelity  is  commonly 
recognised  is  repeatedly  shown  in  the  writings  of  our 
minor  novelists,  who  frequently  build  their  plots  out  of 
materials  lying  far  beyond  their  own  observation,  and 
are  seldom  deterred  even  by  the  profoundest  ignor- 

^  Comparing  Jane  Austen  and  George  Sand,  and  giving  full  praise  to 
both,  George  Eliot  indicated  what  she  deemed  the  essential  defect  in 
each :  the  former  never  penetrated  into  the  deeper  experiences,  the 
powerful,  emotional  and  spiritual  things  of  life  ;  the  latter,  while  she  had 
abundance  of  passion,  lacked  moral  poise  and  clear  ethical  vision.  It  is 
interesting  at  this  point  to  consider  the  purely  feminine  elements  in  George 
Eliot  herself.  Most  of  her  early  readers,  misled  by  her  masculine 
pseudonym,  took  her  for  a  man ;  but  others  of  keener  perception,  like 
Dickens,  were  not  slow  in  discovering  the  womanly  characteristics  of  her 
work. 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  177 

ance  from  following  their  story  whithersoever  it  leads. 
They  will  boldly  challenge  comparison  with  Anthony 
Trollope  in  descriptions  of  the  hunting  field  ;  with 
Halevy  in  pictures  of  theatrical  life  ;  with  Bret  Harte 
in  scenes  from  the  California  gold  diggings ;  with 
Stevenson  and  Clarke  Russell  in  the  romance  of  the 
sea ;  though  they  themselves  have  never  ridden  with 
the  hounds,  or  entered  a  green  room,  or  lived  in  the 
far  west,  or  known  more  of  salt  water  than  may  be 
gathered  from  a  summer  passage  from  Folkestone  to 
Boulogne.^  It  is  often  said  that  every  man  might 
produce  at  least  one  interesting  novel  if  he  would  only 
write  faithfully  of  what  he  has  known  and  felt  for 
himself;  but  it  is  a  curious  fact  that  in  the  vast 
majority  of  cases  this  is  the  last  thing  that  the 
would-be  novelist  ever  thinks  of  doing.  On  the 
contrary,  inspired  rather  by  the  work  of  some 
favourite  writer,  whom  he  seeks  to  imitate,  than  by 
life  itself,  he  commits  the  fatal  blunder  of  drawing 
upon  second-hand  information  for  the  groundwork 
of  his  plot. 

It  is  not,  however,  necessary  to  push  the  doctrine 
of  authenticity  to  the  extreme  represented  by  the 
precept  and  practice  of  Jane  Austen,  and,  indeed,  we 
should  be  warranted  in  doing  so  only  on  the  supposi- 
tion that  a  novel  must  be  realistic  in  the  narrow^est 

^  Lapses  in  detail,  due  to  ignorance,  are  sometimes  very  amusing.  I 
have  a  recollection  of  a  scene  in  one  of  Ouida's  novels  (though  I  could 
not  give  chapter  and  verse)  in  which  her  hero,  rowing  in  a  boat-race,  is 
eulogised  for  his  strength  and  prowess  in  pulling  twice  as  fast  as  any  other 
man  in  his  crew  !  Dickens,  as  is  well  known,  came  to  grief  over  the 
game  of  cricket  {Pickwick  Papers^  chap,  vii.),  which  it  is  very  evident  he 
had  neither  played  nor  watched  attentively.  Practical  yachtsmen  have 
been  much  puzzled  over  the  nautical  manoeuvres  described  in  the  .storm 
in  Stevenson's  Treasure  Island, 
M 


178  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEKATUEE 

acceptation  of  that  word — a  supposition  which,  as 
we  shall  see  presently,  we  are  not  in  the  least  called 
upon  to  accept.  Knowledge  of  life  may  be  obtained 
in  various  ways  besides  direct  personal  experience; 
it  may,  in  particular,  be  obtained  through  books  and 
through  conversation  with  other  people  who  have 
touched  the  world  at  points  where  we  have  not 
touched  it  ourselves.  A  writer  of  real  creative  genius, 
with  that  power  of  absorbing  and  utilising  all  kinds  of 
material  derived  from  all  kinds  of  sources,  and  that 
sheer  power  of  realistic  imagination  which  habitually 
goes  with  this,  may  thus  attain  substantial  fidelity 
even  when  he  is  handling  scenes  and  incidents  which 
have  never  come  within  the  range  of  his  own  experi- 
ence and  observation.  Little  fault  has  been  found 
with  Robinson  Crusoe  on  the  score  of  inaccuracy  even 
in  details,  while  in  the  quality  of  carrying  conviction 
it  stands  in  the  front  rank  of  fictitious  narratives  ;  yet 
it  must  not  be  forgotten  that  the  man  who  wrote  it 
had  not  only  never  lived  on  a  desert  island,  but  had 
never  even  seen  the  sea.  The  historical  novelist  is 
evidently  compelled  to  rely  upon  indirect  information 
for  the  specific  characteristics  of  any  period  he  under- 
takes to  describe  ;  and  what  the  historical  novelist 
does  in  dealing  with  the  past,  the  novelist  of  con- 
temporary life  may  do  with  equal  assurance  when  the 
exigencies  of  his  plot  carry  him  beyond  his  individual 
field.  The  doctrine  of  fidelity  must  therefore  be 
stated  with  due  qualifications.  What  is  required  in 
all  cases  is  a  large  many-sided  experience  of  men  and. 
things  and  a  resulting  general  knowledge  of  life  both 
ample  and  thorough,  the  application  of  which  to 
specific  details  may  vitalise  and   humanise  materials 


THE  STUDY  OF  PEOSE  FICTION  179 

wheresoever  gained ;  this,  and  what  I  have  called 
that  sheer  power  of  realistic  imagination  which  will 
often  enable  a  writer  to  see  more  clearly  and  depict 
more  convincingly  a  scene  he  has  only  heard  or 
read  of  than  could  an  ordinary  person  who  had 
himself  witnessed  such  a  scene  or  even  taken  part 
in  it. 

The  more  technical  side  of  the  substance  of  a 
novel,  which  we  designate  in  the  word  plot, 
has  next  to  be  considered.  A  novel,  what- 
ever else  it  is  or  is  not,  is  at  any  rate  a  story.  Two 
questions,  therefore,  suggest  themselves  which,  though 
it  is  almost  superfluous  to  do  so,  we  must  still  state 
in  definite  form.  Is  the  story,  as  story,  fresh,  interest- 
ing, and  worth  the  telling?  And,  this  being  settled, 
is  it  well  and  artistically  told  ?  In  other  words,  we 
demand,  with  the  most  uncritical  reader,  that  the 
story  shall  in  its  own  particular  way  be  a  good  one  ; 
and  also — a  consideration  to  which  the  uncritical 
reader  is  for  the  most  part  curiously  indifferent — 
that  it  shall  be  skilfully  put  together.  By  this  we 
mean  that,  on  careful  examination  of  all  its  details, 
it  shall  reveal  no  gaps  or  inconsistencies ;  that  its 
parts  shall  be  arranged  with  a  due  sense  of  balance 
and  proportion  ^ ;  that  its  incidents  shall  appear  to 
evolve  spontaneously  from  its  data  and  from  one 
another ;  that  commonplace  things  shall  be  made 
significant  by  the  writer's  touch  upon  them  ;  that  the 
march  of  events,  however  unusual,  shall  be  so  managed 

^  The  law  of  balance  and  proportion  is  often  broken  even  by  our 
greatest  novelists.  Thus,  for  instance,  Scott  (as  I  have  elsewhere  pointed 
out)  "  is  capable  of  writing  pages  of  description  about  an  occurrence  that 
leads  nowhither,  or  a  character  who  forthwith  drops  into  a  second  or  third 
place"  {Life  of  Scott,  p.  278). 


i8o  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUEE 

as  to  impress  us  as  orderly  and  natural  in  the  circum- 
stances ;  and  that  the  catastrophe,  whether  foreseen  or 
not,  shall  satisfy  us  as  the  logical  product  and  summing 
up  of  all  that  has  gone  before.^ 

Mere  power  of  narrative  is  also  in  itself  a  feature 
The  Gift  which  will  always  repay  attention.  The 
of  story-  gift  of  telling  a  story  to  the  best  possible 
telling.  advantage  is,  as  anyone  may  soon  discover 
for  himself  by  listening  critically  to  the  anecdotes 
which  are  exchanged  over  a  dinner-table,  much  rarer 
than  is  commonly  supposed ;  while,  as  the  same 
experiment  will  further  prove,  it  is  also  a  gift  by 
itself,  having,  like  the  histrionic  faculty,  little  or 
nothing   to  do    with    a    person's    general   intellectual 

1  It  will  be  noted  that  many  otherwise  admirable  story-tellers  have 
great  difficulty  in  getting  started  and  sometimes  fumble  painfully  over 
their  initial  scenes.  This  was  conspicuously  the  case  with  Scott,  whose 
cumbrous  and  heavy  introductory  chapters  (as  in  the  classical  example  of 
Waverley)  are  almost  enough  to  deter  the  reader  on  the  very  threshold 
of  his  narrative.  His  conclusions  are  generally  quite  as  unsatisfactory. 
"Sometimes"  (if  I  may  again  use  my  own  words),  **as  in  T/ie  Heart  of 
Midlothian,  he  dawdles  over  unimportant  matters  after  the  main  interest 
has  come  to  a  close  ;  but  more  often  he  is  guilty,  as  Lady  Louisa  Stuart 
put  it,  of  '  huddling  up  a  conclusion  anyhow,  and  so  kicking  the  book 
out  of  his  way.'"  Ivatihoe  tiXi^X  Kenilworth  have  exceptionally  effective 
catastrophes,  but  "any  tyro  in  criticism  could  pick  holes  in  the  dtlnoug- 
ments  of  the  Antiquary  or  Woodstock.''^  Dickens's  conclusions  are 
commonly  marred  by  his  desire  to  get  all  his  characters  together  into  a 
series  of  grand  final  scenes  in  which  rewards  and  punishments  may  be 
distributed  according  to  the  strict  demands  of  poetic  justice ;  and  to 
achieve  this  he  is  obliged  to  have  recourse  to  means  that  are  too  patently 
forced  and  artificial  to  be  in  the  least  convincing.  The  contrast  between 
the  well-rounded  and  completely  explanatory  d,!nouements  of  most  of  our 
older  novelists  and  the  abrupt  endings,  which  are  often  no  endings  at  all, 
so  popular  in  much  of  our  later  fiction  opens  up  an  interesting  line  of 
study  in  the  changes  which  have  come  over  the  art  of  fiction  since  the 
days  of  the  Victorian  masters.  The  logic  of  the  catastrophe  will  be  dealt 
with  in  our  chapter  on  the  drama. 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  i8i 

ability.  Among  English  poets,  Chaucer,  Dryden, 
Scott,  and  William  Morris,  dissimilar  as  were  other- 
wise their  qualities  of  genius,  had  this  gift  in  a  marked 
degree,  while  on  the  other  hand  Spenser,  great  as  he 
was  in  pure  description,  was  here  singularly  weak  ; 
among  our  historians  Carlyle  and  Macaulay  in 
particular  had  it ;  and  we  must  recognise  this  fact  in 
our  estimate  of  these  writers  apart  from  any  other 
questions  concerning  Chaucer,  Dryden,  Scott  and 
Morris  as  poets,  and  Carlyle  and  Macaulay  as  historians. 
So  with  prose  fiction.  There  are  novelists  whose 
books  have  little  weight  or  permanent  value,  who  can 
at  least  tell  a  story  naturally,  easily,  and  in  a  way  to 
bring  out  at  each  stage  its  maximum  amount  of 
interest ;  there  are  others  of  immeasurably  greater 
intellectual  power  in  whom  this  faculty  is  poorly 
developed,  or  in  whose  work  its  exercise  is  impeded 
by  the  pressure  of  other  things.  Thus  in  reading 
Dumas,  for  example,  who  is  one  of  the  world's  very 
best  story-tellers,  we  cannot  fail  to  admire  the  free 
and  vigorous  movement  of  the  narrative,  which  sweeps 
us  on  from  point  to  point  with  no  apparent  effort  or 
strain,  while  a  certain  sense  of  effort  and  strain  is 
almost  always  with  us  when  we  are  reading  George 
Eliot,  or  Balzac,  or  Tolstoi.^  Nor  is  it  only  at  the 
evolution  of  the  action  as  a  whole  that  we  have  to 
look.  We  must  consider  also  the  writer's  power  of 
managing  his  separate  parts — of  handling  his  situations 
and  working  up  his  effects.      Much  of  the  dramatic 

^  I  am  thinking  here  of  Tolstoi's  longer  works  of  fiction  only.  Many 
of  his  shorter  tales  are  almost  perfect  examples  of  the  story-teller's  art. 
They  seem,  indeed,  not  so  much  to  be  told  as  to  tell  themselves — the 
highest  praise  that  can  be  given  to  work  of  this  description. 


1 82  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

value  of  scenes  of  great  potential  interest  is  often 
allowed  to  escape  under  inadequate  treatment ;  but  a 
novelist  who  knows  his  business  will  make  every 
incident  tell  with  its  proper  proportion  of  effect  in 
relation  to  the  whole.  Of  course,  here  as  elsewhere, 
methods  vary.  We  may  have,  for  instance,  the 
marvellous  brevity  and  restraint  of  Thackeray's 
account  of  George  Osborne's  death  at  Waterloo  ;  we 
may  have,  in  a  totally  different  manner,  the  elaborately- 
wrought  detail  with  which  Dickens  describes  the 
death  of  old  Krook,  and  Hawthorne  the  death  of 
Judge  Pyncheon.  Hence  it  will  always  be  a  matter 
of  interest  not  only  to  observe  results,  but  also  to 
examine  the  means  b}^  which  the  results  are  obtained 
by  different  writers  or  by  the  same  writer  in  different 
circumstances  or  at  different  stages  of  his  career.^ 

In  dealing  with  plot-structure  we  may  distinguish 
Loose  Plot  ''o^ighly  between  two  kinds  of  novel — I  say 
and  Or-  roughly,  because  the  types,  though  clearly 
game  0  .  ^Qf^^Q^^  shade  into  one  another  by  imper- 
ceptible gradations.  These  are  what  we  may  call 
respectively  the  novel  of  loose  plot  and  the  novel  of 

1  Thus  the  student  of  Thackeray  will  note  that  while  the  satire  of  his 
later  books  is  less  pungent  and  their  general  atmosphere  more  kindly,  the 
writer  had  also  lost  some  of  his  earlier  horror  of  dwelling,  in  Dickens's 
fashion,  over  sentimental  or  tragic  situations.  In  Vanity  Fair,  in  the 
account  of  Osborne's  death,  in  the  narrative  of  the  struggles  of  his  widow, 
in  the  great  scene  in  which  Rawdon  Crawley  surprises  his  wife  with  I^ord 
Steyne,  we  have  no  suspicion  that  the  matter  is  being  specially  worked 
up  for  effect ;  indeed,  Thackeray  more  than  once  openly  checks  himself 
for  fear  of  becoming  theatrical  or  mawkish.  On  the  other  hand,  there  is 
much  elaboration  in  the  description  of  the  last  years  and  death  of  the 
Colonel  in  The  Newcomes,  and  of  the  death  of  the  Baroness  de  Bernstein 
in  The  Virginians.  Dickens,  on  the  contrary,  whose  earlier  pathos  and 
melodrama  were  terribly  over-wrought,  showed  a  distinct  tendency  in 
later  works  towards  increasing  restraint. 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FlCTIOK^  183 

organic  plot.  In  the  former  case  the  story  is 
composed  of  a  number  of  detached  incidents,  having 
little  necessary  or  logical  connection  among  themselves  ; 
the  unity  of  the  narrative  depending  not  on  the 
machinery  of  the  action,  but  upon  the  person  of  the 
hero  who,  as  the  central  figure  or  nucleus,  binds  the 
otherwise  scattered  elements  together.  Such  a  novel  is, 
in  fact,  "rather  a  history  of  the  miscellaneous  adventures 
which  befall  an  individual  in  the  course  of  life  than  the 
plot  of  a  regular  and  connected  epopoeia,  where  every 
step  brings  us  a  point  nearer  to  the  final  catastrophe."  ^ 
Thus  while  it  may  be  filled  to  overflowing  with  in- 
teresting separate  episodes,  it  has  little  in  the  nature  of 
a  comprehensive  general  design,  in  the  evolution  of 
which  each  detail  plays  a  distinct  and  vital  part. 

Robinson  Crusoe  d^nd  Gil  Bias,  Joseph  A  ndrezus  and 
Roderick  Random,  Vanity  Fair  and  Pendennis,  The 
Pickwick  Papers  and  Nicholas  Nickleby,  may  be  cited 
as  familiar  examples  of  this  "  loose  and  incoherent " 
type  of  novel,  as  Scott  called  it ;  in  them  one  scene 
leads  to  another,  the  characters  cross  and  re-cross  ; 
but  the  books  as  a  whole  have  little  structural  back- 
bone or  organic  unity.  In  no  one  of  these  cases,  it 
is  evident,  was  it  necessary  that  the  author  should 
have  thought  out  beforehand  the  details  of  his  drama  ; 
it  was  enough  that  he  should  have  in  mind  a  broad 
general  notion  of  the  course  the  story  was  to  take  ; 
it  could  then  be  left — as  Thackeray  confessedly  left 
his  stories — to  unfold  itself  as  it  went  along.^     Just 

1  Scott,  Introductory  Epistle  to  The  Fortunes  of  Nigel. 

2  Scott  acknowledged  that  "the  tale  of  Waverley  was  put  together 
with  so  little  care  that  I  cannot  boast  of  having  sketched  any  distinct  plan 
of  the  work."  Thackeray  said  that  his  method  of  composition  was  to 
create  in  advance  two  or  three  of  his  chief  characters,  and  then  go  on 


1 84  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

as  manifestly  the  case  is  entirely  different  with  novels 
of  the  organic  type — with  such  novels  as  Tom  Jones^ 
Bleak  House,  Our  Mutual  Friend^  or  The  Woman  in 
White.  Here  the  separate  incidents  are  no  longer 
treated  episodically ;  they  are  dovetailed  together 
as  integral  components  of  a  definite  plot-pattern. 
In  these  cases,  it  is  clear,  something  more  than  a 
general  idea  of  the  course  of  the  story  was  necessary 
before  the  author  began  his  work.  The  entire  plan 
had  to  be  considered  in  detail ;  the  characters  and 
events  arranged  to  occupy  their  proper  places  in  it ; 
and  the  various  lines  laid  down  which  were  to 
converge  in  bringing  about  the  catastrophe. 

This  distinction,  however,  as  I  have  said,  is  a  rough 
one  only.  I  have  instanced  the  above-mentioned 
books  precisely  because  they  represent  well-defined 
types.  Several  qualifying  remarks  must  now  be 
made.  In  the  first  place,  even  in  novels  of  the 
organic  kind  there  is  often  a  great  deal  of  purely 
episodical  material.  Thus  in  Tom  Jones,  Bleak  House, 
and  Our  Mutual  Friend  there  are  many  incidents  and 
characters  which  lie  outside  the  general  design  and 
are  not  really  connected  with  it.  Secondly,  all 
degrees  of  plot-organisation  are,  of  course,  possible 
between  the  elaborate  compactness  of  these  books 
and  the  extreme  looseness  of  The  Pickwick  Papers 
or  Pendennis.  Among  Dickens's  novels,  for  example, 
David    Copperfield   and    Martin     Chuzzlewit    exhibit 

from  chapter  to  chapter  with  only  a  general  notion  of  the  course  he  would 
be  taking  a  few  chapters  later  on.  Even  when  he  was  actually  at  work 
on  the  episode  of  Pen  and  Fanny  Bolton  in  Pendennis,  he  was  by  no 
means  certain  how  it  would  turn  out.  "When  I  sit  down  to  write  a 
novel,"  said  Anthony  Trollope  in  his  Autobiography ^  "  I  do  not  at  all 
know,  and  I  do  not  very  much  care,  how  it  is  to  end." 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  185 

intermediate  stages  of  plot-unification.  Again,  there 
are  innumerable  novels  in  which  (as  in  those  of  Jane 
Austen  and  Turgenev)  the  matter  of  the  plot  is  so 
simple  that  no  regular  development  of  a  dramatic 
scheme  is  to  be  looked  for.  Nor,  finally,  is  it  for  a 
moment  to  be  assumed  that  the  organic  novel,  as 
such,  is  on  a  higher  artistic  plane  than  the  loose  novel, 
though  Scott  thought  it  necessary  to  apologise 
because  his  stories  belonged  to  the  latter  class. 
Indeed,  for  reasons  which  will  appear  presently,  a 
really  great  novel  is  likely,  as  a  rule,  to  approximate 
rather  to  the  loose  than  to  the  organic  type.  At  the 
same  time,  compactness  and  symmetry — a  good  plot 
well  worked  out — undoubtedly  give  aesthetic  pleasure, 
and  we  rightly  admire  the  technical  skill  to  which 
they  testify  ;  while  no  consideration  of  their  excellence 
in  other  respects  should  tempt  us  to  palliate  the  total 
want  of  structural  unity  and  coherence  in  such  works 
as  Vanity  Fair  and  The  Newcomes. 

The  two  drawbacks  to  which  a  highly  organised 
plot  is  specially  liable  may  here  just  be  noted.  It 
may  be  so  mechanically  put  together  that  its  very 
cleverness  may  impress  us  with  an  uneasy  sense  of 
laborious  artifice.  This  is  commonly  the  case  with 
the  novels  of  our  most  deft  manipulator  of  mere  plot, 
Wilkie  Collins.  Or  it  may  lack  plausibility  in  details. 
Here  a  frequent  error  is  the  abuse  of  coincidence. 
Thus  in  Tom  Jones  (the  plot  of  which,  perhaps  be- 
cause it  was  the  first  great  effort  of  the  kind  in 
English  fiction,  has  been  absurdly  over-praised)  all 
sorts  of  unexpected  things  are  perpetually  happening 
in  the  very  nick  of  time,  while  people  turn  up  again 
and    again    at   the   right  moment,  and  in   the    place 


1 86  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

where  they  are  wanted  only  because  they  chance 
to  be  wanted  then  and  there.  Even  Mr  Austin 
Dobson  is  compelled  to  admit,  though  he  does  so  re- 
luctantly, the  strain  which  the  narrative  for  this  reason 
frequently  inflicts  upon  our  sense  of  probability.  The 
defence  which  is  sometimes  offered  for  the  free  use  of 
coincidence — that  coincidences  do  happen  in  real 
life — is  scarcely  to  the  point  ;  for  the  obverse  of  the 
dictum  that  truth  is  stranger  than  fiction  is,  that 
fiction  should  not  be  so  strange  as  truth.  Two  tests 
of  any  plot  are  thus  suggested.  It  should  seem  to 
move  naturally,  and  be  free  from  any  appearance  of 
artifice  ;  and  the  means  used  in  working  it  out  should 
be  such  as  we  are  willing  to  accept,  in  the  circum- 
stances, as  at  least  credible. 

A  special  aspect  of  the  principle  of  unity  in  plot- 
Simpie  and  structure  has  next  to  be  considered.  The 
Compound  plot  of  a  novel  may  be  simple  or  compound  ; 
^°*'*  that  is,  it  may  be  composed  of  one  story 
only,  or  of  two  or  more  stories  in  combination  ;  and 
the  law  of  unity  requires  that  in  a  compound  plot 
the  parts  should  be  wrought  together  into  a  single 
whole.  Our  criticism  of  Vanity  Fair,  on  the  structural 
side,  bears  chiefly  on  this  point ;  the  narrative  is  made 
up  of  two  stories — the  story  of  Amelia  Sedley  and 
the  story  of  Becky  Sharp  ;  and  these  two  stories  are 
not  properly  amalgamated.  In  precisely  the  same 
way  Middlemarch,  Daniel Deronda,  and  Anna  Karenina 
are  alike  open  to  criticism.  In  Bleak  House,  on  the 
contrary,  the  three  threads  of  Esther  Summerson's 
story,  the  story  of  Lady  Dedlock's  sin,  and  the  story 
of  the  great  Chancery  suit  of  Jarndyce  v,  Jarndyce, 
are  very   cleverly  interwoven,   and   thus  we  have  an 


THE  STUDY  OF  PEOSE  FICTION  187 

admirable  example  on  an  immense  scale  of  the  uni- 
fication of  complex  materials.  It  should  also  be 
noted  that  where  several  independent  elements  enter 
into  a  plot,  it  is  often  the  practice  of  novelists  to 
make  them  balance  or  illustrate  one  another.  It  was 
Dickens's  habitual  method  to  offset  his  melodrama 
by  broad  comedy,  according  to  the  plan  of  the 
romantic  dramatists.  Even  in  Vanity  Fair,  while 
there  is  little  effort  to  fuse  the  two  stories,  the  sig- 
nificance of  the  moral  and  dramatic  contrast  between 
them  throughout  is  kept  clearly  in  view ;  and  some 
such  moral  and  dramatic  contrast  will  be  found  under- 
lying the  two  stories  in  Anna  Karenina.  About  this 
matter  of  balance  among  the  different  parts  of  a  plot, 
however,  we  shall  have  more  to  say  when  we  come 
to  speak  of  the  technique  of  the  drama,  when  the 
various  stages  in  the  movement  of  a  plot  will  also  be 
considered. 

One  other  point  in  the  study  of  plot  has  still  to 
be  indicated.  While  the  dramatist  is,  of  Methods  of 
course,  confined  to  a  single  way  of  telling  his  Narration, 
story — by  representation  combined  with  narrative 
put  into  the  mouths  of  his  characters — the  novelist 
has  his  choice  among  three  methods — the  direct,  or 
epic ;  the  autobiographical ;  and  the  documentary. 
In  the  first  and  most  usual  way,  the  novelist  is  an 
historian  narrating  from  the  outside  ;  in  the  second, 
he  writes  in  the  first  person,  identifying  himself  with 
one  of  his  characters  (generally,  though  not  always, 
the  hero  or  heroine),  and  thus  produces  an  imaginary 
autobiography ;  as  in  Robinson  Crusoe,  The  Vicar 
of  Wakefield,  David  Copperfield,  Esmond,  Jane  Eyre ; 
in    the   third,   the   action    is    unfolded    by   means   of 


1 88  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

letters,  as  in  the  "  epistolary  "  novels  of  Richardson, 
Smollett's  Humphrey  Clinker,  Fanny  Burney's  Evelina, 
and  Goethe's  Sorrows  of  VVerther ;  or — a  favourite 
device  of  Wilkie  Collins — by  diaries,  contributed 
narratives,  and  miscellaneous  documents.  Occasion- 
ally, the  methods  may  be  blended,  as  in  Bleak 
House,  where  Esther  Summerson's  story  is  told  by 
herself,  while  the  rest  of  the  book  takes  the  direct 
historic  form.  It  is  evident  that  each  of  these  three 
ways  has  its  special  advantages  ;  for  while  the 
direct  method  always  gives  the  greatest  scope  and 
freedom  of  movement,  a  keener  and  more  intimate 
interest  may  sometimes  be  attained  by  the  use  of 
either  the  first-personal  or  the  documentary  plan. 
Yet  it  will  be  observed  that  both  these  last-named 
methods  involve  difficulties  of  their  own,  and  that 
on  the  whole  it  is  best  to  avoid  them  save  where 
the  compensating  gain  is  considerable.  In  adopting 
the  autobiographic  form,  a  novelist  may  frequently 
fail  to  bring  all  his  material  naturally  within  the 
compass  of  the  supposed  narrator's  knowledge  and 
power  ;  and  he  may  sometimes  miss  the  true  personal 
tone  ;  as  in  the  case  of  Esther  Summerson,  who  (as 
the  least  critical  reader  must  be  aware)  writes  alto- 
gether too  much  like  Dickens  himself  and  with  too 
marked  an  admixture  of  Dickens's  insight  and  humour. 
And  whatever  may  be  urged  in  theory  on  behalf  of 
the  documentary  method,^  in  practice  it  is  very  apt 

^  The  principal  advantage  of  the  epistolary  method  is  to  be  found  in 
the  fact  that  full  personal  expression  can  be  given  to  the  feelings  of  all  the 
important  actors  at  the  time  of  the  events  described,  and  before  their 
issue  is  known  to  them.  In  this  one  respect  the  novel-by-letters  is 
superior  both  to  the  ordinary  epic  novel,  in  which  such  feeHngs  are  in 
the  main  analysed  by  an  outsider,  and  to  the  autobiographical  novel,  in 


THE  STUDY  OF  PEOSE  FICTION  189 

to  become,  even  in  the  hands  of  a  skilful  artist,  both 
clumsy  and  unconvincing.^  In  our  study  of  any 
novel  in  which  either  of  these  two  plans  is  followed, 
we  must  always  ask  why  the  author  has  chosen  to 
depart  from  the  more  ordinary  narrative  method,  and 
to  what  extent,  and  in  what  ways,  his  work  has 
gained  or  lost  by  the  change. 


Ill 

In  passing  from  plot  to  characterisation   in  fiction 
we  are  met  at  the  outset  by  one  of  those 
elementary  questions  of  which  even  the  most  terisation  • 
uncritical  reader  is  certain  to  feel  the  force,  its  Eie- 
Does    the   novelist   succeed    in    making   his  condition, 
men  and  women  real  to  our  imaginations  ? 
Do  they,  in  TroUope's  phrase,  "  stand  upright  on  the 

which  we  have  only  the  retrospective  interpretation  of  a  single  character 
written  after  the  incidents  described  are  things  of  the  past.  This  was 
perceived  by  Richardson,  who,  defending  the  epistolary  form,  writes  in 
his  preface  to  Clarissa :  "  Much  more  lively  and  affecting  must  be  the  style 
of  those  who  write  in  the  height  of  the  present  distress,  the  mind  tortured 
by  the  pangs  of  uncertainty  (the  events  then  hidden  in  the  womb  of  time), 
than  the  dry  narrative,  unanimated  style  of  a  person  relating  difficulties  and 
dangers  surmounted,  the  relater  perfectly  at  ease  ;  and  if  himself  unmoved 
by  his  own  story,  then  not  likely  greatly  to  affect  the  reader." 

^  It  has  been  noted  by  various  critics  of  Richardson  that  all  his  char- 
acters seem  to  have  a  perfect  mania  for  correspondence,  and,  however 
busy  otherwise,  unlimited  leisure  for  it  ;  and  that  the  world  in  which 
they  live  resembles  nothing  so  much  as  a  well-ordered  office  where  every- 
thing is  transcribed,  docketed,  and  filed  away  for  future  reference. 
Richardson  himself  thought  it  desirable  to  explain  Pamela's  extraordinary 
devotion  to  letter-writing.  Miss  Byron's  facility  and  industry  (in  Sir 
Charles  Grandison)  were  specially  dealt  with  by  Sir  Leslie  Stephen.  On 
March  22,  he  points  out,  she  writes  a  letter  filling  fourteen  pages  of 
print,  and  two  others  of  six  and  twelve  pages  respectively ;  the  next  day, 
two  more  letters  of  eighteen  and  ten  pages ;  on  the  24th,   two  more, 


I90  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

ground "  ?  That  the  great  creations  of  our  great 
novelists  fulfil  this  initial  condition  is  a  fact  too 
familiar  to  need  particular  illustration.  They  lay- 
hold  of  us  by  virtue  of  their  substantial  quality  of 
life ;  we  know  and  believe  in  them  as  thoroughly, 
we  sympathise  with  them  as  deeply,  we  love  and 
hate  them  as  cordially,  as  though  they  belonged  to 
the  world  of  flesh  and  blood.  And  the  first  thing 
that  we  require  of  any  novelist  in  his  handling  of 
character  is  that,  whether  he  keeps  close  to  common 
experience  or  boldly  experiments  with  the  fantastic 
and  the  abnormal,  his  men  and  women  shall  move 
through  his  pages  like  living  beings  and  like  living 
beings  remain  in  our  memory  after  his  book  is  laid 
aside  and  its  details  perhaps  forgotten. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  enter  here  into  any  discussion 

of  the  psychology  of  that  dramatic  genius 
Mystery  ^Y  which  life  is  thus  given  to  the  figments 
of  the  of  fancy  and  the  illusion  of  reality  produced. 
Process.       Intensity   of  conception    and    what    I   have 

called  realistic  imagination  are  doubtless  at 
the  bottom  of  it.  But  it  is  well  to  remember  that  the 
processes  of  creation  are  confessedly  as  mysterious  to 
those  who  possess  such  creative  power  as  they  are 
to  other  people.  Thus  Thackeray  spoke  of  this 
power   as    "  occult " — as    a   power   which    seemed    at 

making  together  thirty  pages.  At  the  end  of  the  last  of  these  she  remarks 
that  she  is  forced  to  lay  down  the  pen  ;  notwithstanding  which,  she  adds 
six  pages  of  postscript  !  In  three  days  she  thus  produces  ninety-six  pages 
of  print !  Macaulay  calculated  that  the  interest  of  her  small  capital  must 
have  been  wholly  consumed  in  postage.  Scott  tried  the  epistolary 
method  in  Redgauntlet,  but  found  it  necessary  to  abandon  it.  Of  course 
letters  are  often  introduced  with  excellent  effect  in  novels  in  other  forms  ; 
like,  e.s^.y  those  of  Mr  Micawber  in  David  Copperfield. 


THE  STUDY  OF  PEOSE  FICTION  191 

times  to  take  the  pen  from  his  fingers  and  move  it 
in  spite  of  himself.  '*  I  don't  control  my  characters," 
he  once  protested  ;  "  I  am  in  their  hands,  and  they 
take  me  where  they  please."  He  had,  as  it  were, 
endowed  them  with  independent  volition,  and  by  so 
doing  had  to  a  large  extent  placed  them  beyond  the 
range  of  his  calculations  ;  they  spoke  and  acted  on 
their  own  impulse  ;  and  so  unexpected  and  surprising 
were  occasionally  the  results  that  when,  as  he  tells 
us,  one  or  another  of  them  had  said  or  done  some- 
thing altogether  unlooked  for,  he  would  be  driven  to 
ask  in  bewilderment,  "  How  the  dickens  did  he  come 
to  think  of  that  ?  "  Such  testimony  is  exceedingly 
instructive,  for  it  touches  upon  an  experience  which, 
so  far  from  being  unique,  has  been,  I  am  convinced, 
the  experience  of  every  writer  of  real  creative  genius 
from  the  delineator  of  Shylock  and  Hamlet  downward. 
Herein,  indeed,  lies  the  ultimate  distinction  between 
creative  genius  and  mere  talent,  however  brilliant  and 
well-trained.  The  latter  simply  manufactures,  and 
its  effects  are  always  within  the  field  of  conscious  and 
deliberate  effort.  The  former  really  creates,  and  for 
this  reason  its  outworkings  are  often  as  strange  and 
inexplicable  to  the  author  himself  at  the  time  as  to 
those  who  afterwards  pick  his  characters  to  pieces  in 
the  hope  of  plucking  the  heart  out  of  their  mystery. 
Putting  on  one  side,  however,  this  whole  problem 

of   power,   and    confining    ourselves    to    the 

4.'  c         *.u    J  ^      ..u   ^         The  Power 

question   of  method,   we   may   note    that   a  of  Graphic 

novelist's   success  in    characterisation  neces-  pescrip- 

tion. 
sarily  depends  in  part  upon  his  faculty  for 

graphic  description.      In   the  representation  of  a  play 

those  secondary  arts  of  which   I   have  spoken  are  of 


4 


192  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

immense  service  in  the  definition  of  personality,  and 
the  make-up  of  the  actor  and  his  interpretation  of  his 
part  give  us  the  dress  and  bearing,  the  looks  and 
gestures,  of  the  character  portrayed  by  him.  In  the 
reading  of  a  novel  (save  where  occasional  assistance 
is  furnished  by  accompanying  illustrations — a  device 
seldom  satisfactory  enough  to  merit  serious  attention), 
all  these  things  are  of  the  imagination  only  ;  and  thus 
it  is  an  important  part  of  the  business  of  the  novelist 
to  help  us  by  description  to  a  vivid  realisation  of  the 
appearance  and  behaviour  of  his  people.  Whatever 
is  individual  and  characteristic  in  their  physical  aspect 
in  general,  whatever  is  of  importance  in  their  ex- 
pression or  demeanour  at  any  critical  moment,  must 
be  so  indicated  as  to  stand  out  clearly  in  the  reader's 
mind.  But  how  is  this  to  be  accomplished  ?  This  is 
a  question  which  will  always  repay  careful  considera- 
tion. It  will  be  found  that  as  a  rule  a  set  and  formal 
description,  given  item  by  item,  is  (as  Lessing  showed)  ^ 
one  of  the  least  successful  ways  of  making  a  character 
live  before  us,  and  that  a  skilled  artist  is  specially 
known  by  his  power  of  selecting  and  accumulating 
significant  detail  and  of  stimulating  the  imagination 
of  the  reader  by  slight  occasional  touches. 

In  regard  to  what  is   more  specifically  understood 

as  characterisation — that  is,  the  psychological 

Anaijrticai   ^'^^^  of  it — the  principal   thing  to  remember 

^^^      .       is,  that  the  conditions  of  the  novel  commonly 

Dramsitic 

Methods  of  permit  the  use  of  two  opposed    methods — 

Charac-       ^-j-jg  direct  or  analytical,  and   the  indirect  or 
terisation.  -^  ' 

dramatic.      In     the    one    case    the    novelist 

portrays    his    characters    from    the    outside,    dissects 

^  LaokooHy  §  20. 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  193 

their  passions,  motives,  thoughts  and  feelings,  ex- 
plains, comments,  and  often  pronounces  authoritative 
judgment  upon  them.  In  the  other  case,  he  stands 
apart,  allows  his  characters  to  reveal  themselves 
through  speech  and  action,  and  reinforces  their  self- 
delineation  by  the  comments  and  judgments  of  other 
characters  in  the  story.  I  say  the  conditions  of  the 
novel  commonly  permit  the  use  of  these  two  methods  ; 
they  do  not  always  do  so,  because  in  fiction  in  which 
the  autobiographical  or  documentary  plan  is  strictly 
adhered  to,  in  fact  as  well  as  in  theory,  and  the 
intrusion  of  the  novelist  in  person  is  thus  prevented, 
the  presentation  of  character  is  confined  within  the 
limits  of  dramatic  objectivity.  Speaking  generally, 
however,  the  very  form  of  the  novel  as  a  compound 
of  narrative  and  dialogue,  practically  involves  a  com- 
bination of  the  non-dramatic  and  the  dramatic  in  the 
handling  of  character.  In  the  examination  of  a 
novelist's  technique,  therefore,  his  habitual  way  of 
using  these  two  methods,  and  the  proportions  in 
which  he  combines  them,  will  evidently  prove  an 
interesting  question.  Often  we  may  observe  a  dis- 
tinct bias  towards  one  or  the  other.  Thus  Thackeray, 
though  he  makes  admirable  use  of  the  indirect  method, 
supports  its  results  by  an  enormous  amount  of  personal 
interpretation  and  criticism  ;  while  direct  analysis  is 
seriously  overdone  by  George  Eliot  and  the  so-called 
psychological  novelists  in  general.  In  Jane  Austen's 
works,  on  the  other  hand,  the  dramatic  element  pre- 
dominates ;  her  men  and  women  for  the  most  part 
portray  themselves  through  dialogue,  while  she  herself 
continually  throws  cross-lights  upon  them  in  the 
conversation   of  the   different  people  by   whom  they 


T94  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

are  discussed.  We  shall  naturally  find  that  the  largest 
place  is  given  to  direct  analysis  in  novels  which  deal 
mainly  with  the  inner  life  and  with  complexities  of 
motive  and  passion  ;  yet  even  here  it  may  be  abused, 
and  the  abuse  of  it  must  always  be  regarded  as  a 
grave  artistic  mistake.  Modern  criticism  rightly 
favours  the  fullest  possible  development  of  the  dramatic 
method.  The  principle  that  it  is  always  better  that 
a  character  should  be  made  to  reveal  itself  than  that 
it  should  be  dissected  from  the  outside,  is  thoroughly 
sound  ;  and  it  is  easy  to  perceive  that  where  dissection 
is  perpetually  substituted  for  self-revelation,  it  is  often 
because  the  novelist  is  deficient  in  true  dramatic  sense 
and  power.  But  it  is  not  therefore  necessary  to  go 
with  some  extremists,  who,  on  the  supposition  that 
the  excellence  of  a  novel  is  in  the  measure  of  its 
approximation  to  the  drama,  condemn  entirely  the 
employment  of  analysis  and  commentary.  It  is  one 
advantage  which  prose  fiction  possesses  in  comparison 
with  the  drama  that  the  author  himself  may  from 
time  to  time  appear  in  the  capacity  of  expositor 
and  critic  ;  and  when  he  avails  himself  of  this 
privilege  he  may  justly  maintain  that  as  he  is 
writing  a  novel  and  not  a  drama,  it  is  by  the 
laws  of  the  novel  and  not  by  those  of  the  drama 
that  he   is  bound. 

Further  comparison  of  these  two  cognate  forms  of 
Character  ^^^  suggests  another  important  point.  The 
in  the  immense  scope  of  the  novel,  its  freedom  of 
^  ^*  movement,  and  its  indifference  to  considera- 
tions of  time  and  place,  combine  with  the  advantage 
just  mentioned  to  give  it  a  special  power  of  dealing 
with    character    in    the    making.       Even    our    earlier 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  195 

novelists  were  quick  to  seize  the  opportunity  thus 
afforded,  as  we  may  see  in  the  writings  of  Defoe  and 
Richardson ;  while  the  whole  tendency  of  literary 
evolution  during  the  past  century  has  been  to  force 
the  dynamics  of  personality  more  and  more  to  the 
front.  So  far  as  modern  fiction  is  concerned,  therefore, 
there  is  little  exaggeration  in  the  statement  of  Lotze 
that  "  the  slow  shaping  of  character  is  the  problem  of 
the  novel "  ;  for  it  would  be  difficult  to  name  any 
really  great  modern  novel  in  which  that  problem  does 
not  occupy  a  conspicuous  place,  even  if  it  does  not 
furnish  the  kernel  or  centre  of  interest.  A  common 
practice  with  the  novelist  who  writes  as  a  serious 
student  of  character  is  thus  to  present  at  the  outset 
some  leading  figure  with  certain  potentialities  of  good 
and  evil,  and  then  to  follow  his  movement  upward 
or  downward  under  the  influence  of  other  people, 
surrounding  conditions,  personal  experiences  and  his 
reaction  to  them,  and  whatever  else  enters  as  a 
formative  factor  into  his  life.  The  problem  may  of 
course  be  worked  out  in  many  ways  ;  in  particular, 
the  changes  in  question  may  be  exhibited  as  the 
results  either  of  some  exceptional  crisis  by  which  an 
entire  revulsion  of  feeling  is  brought  about,  or  (as 
Lotze's  view  indicates),  of  a  gradual  unfolding  or 
atrophy  of  the  moral  nature.  In  either  case,  our 
attention  should  be  directed  to  the  means  by  which 
the  changes  are  produced,  to  the  question  of  the 
adequacy  of  the  assigned  causes  to  account  for  the 
supposed  effects,  and  to  the  psychological  power  and 
truth  of  the  delineation  as  a  whole.  It  is  here  that, 
however  otherwise  we  may  judge  her  work,  George 
Eliot   holds    her    special    place    among    our    English 


196  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

writers  of  fiction.  Some  problem  in  the  dynamics  of 
character  (usually  conceived  on  the  tragic  side)  lies  at 
the  heart  of  every  one  of  her  novels,  and  their  real 
greatness  is  ultimately  to  be  sought  in  the  wonderful 
insight  and  skill  with  which  she  handles  her  theme. 
Where  so  many  illustrations  might  be  given,  choice 
is  difficult  ;  but  it  may,  I  think,  be  said  without 
hesitation  that  as  an  elaborate  study  of  moral 
deterioration  under  repeated  shocks  of  temptation 
Tito  Melema  is  the  finest  thing  of  the  kind  in  English 
literature. 

It  may  finally  be  noted  that  in  our  general  estimate 

of  any  novelist's  characterisation,  the  question 
ti^n  of^^  of  his  range  and  limitations  must  not  be  left 
Range  in  out  of  consideration.  Catholicity  of  course 
sation.  ^     counts  greatly  in  our  judgment  of  his  work 

in  the  mass  ;  for  while  we  admire  those  who, 
like  Jane  Austen,  are  content  to  do  a  few  things  and 
to  do  them  well,  we  naturally  assign  a  higher  place 
to  those  whose  accomplishment  is  broader  and  more 
varied.  But  every  novelist  who  v/rites  much  and 
covers  a  considerable  field  is  certain  to  have  his  points 
of  special  strength  and  special  weakness,  and  the 
strength  and  the  weakness  alike  will  always  throw 
much  light  upon  the  essential  qualities  of  his  genius  and 
art.  There  is,  for  example,  no  better  way  of  getting 
to  know  the  real  powers,  sympathies,  and  affiliations 
of  Scott  than  by  a  careful  analysis  of  the  many 
different  classes  of  character  which  make  up  the 
dramatis  personce  of  the  Waverley  Novels.  His 
nominal  heroes  possess  little  life,  and  are  generally,  as 
he  confessed,  "  very  amiable  and  very  insipid  young 
men."     "  I  am,"  he  writes  with  his  customary  candour, 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  197 

"  a  bad  hand  at  depicting  a  hero  properly  so-called, 
and  have  an  unfortunate  propensity  for  the  dubious 
characters  of  borderers,  buccaneers,  highland  robbers, 
and  all  others  of  a  Robin  Hood  description."  His 
heroines,  though  they  often  possess  genuine  charm, 
are  usually  rather  conventional.  He  has  little  power 
over  the  deeper  passions,  save,  significantly  enough, 
those  of  loyality  and  patriotism.  Under  the  influence 
of  the  romantic  movement  he  made  frequent  excursions 
into  the  domain  of  the  abnormal  and  the  fantastic  ; 
but  he  was  too  much  a  man  of  the  eighteenth  century 
to  succeed  in  this  direction,  and  his  Madge  Wildfire, 
Meg  Merrilies,  Dame  Urfried,  Noma  of  the  Fitful 
Head,  Fenella,  and  the  rest,  though  highly  praised  by 
Coleridge,  are  in  fact  poor  things,  while  the  White 
Lady  of  The  Monastery  is  decisive  proof  of  his 
deficient  sense  of  the  supernatural.  We  have,  there- 
fore, a  long  list  of  failures,  comparative  or  complete, 
to  allow  for,  before  we  come  at  length  to  Scott's 
great  and  memorable  successes  in  characterisation. 
And  where  are  these  to  be  sought  ?  I  pass  over 
the  historical  studies  because  they  involve  com- 
plicating considerations  of  accuracy  into  which  we 
cannot  now  enter,  and  reply,  chiefly  among  his 
homely  figures  from  Scottish  life ;  in  such  characters 
as  Jeanie  Deans  and  Saunders  Mucklebackit ;  among 
his  lawyers,  peasant-folk,  farmers,  inn-keepers,  old- 
fashioned  retainers  and  serving-men  ;  in  his  humorous 
eccentrics,  such  as  the  Baron  of  Bradwardine, 
Dominie  Sampson,  Jonathan  Oldbuck,  and  Duguld 
Dalgetty.  That  the  facts  thus  elicited  help  us  to 
understand  the  foundations  of  Scott's  genius  and  the 
real  value    of   his    work   in    the    novel  is,  I  believe, 


198  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

evident ;    and    a   similar    inquiry   into    the    successes 

and    failures    of   other    novelists    would     be    equally 

fruitiful   of  results. 

What  has   previously   been  said  about  the  need  of 

fidelity  to  personal  observation  and  experience 
Characten- 
sationand    in    the   plot  and   manners   of  a  novel  is  of 

^0^^^^^^  course  no  less  applicable  to  its  characterisa- 
tion. In  his  "  essay  to  prove  that  an  author 
will  write  the  better  for  having  some  knowledge  of  the 
subject  on  which  he  writes,"  Fielding  properly  urged 
that  "  a  true  knowledge  of  the  world  is  gained  only  by 
conversation  ;  and  the  manners  of  every  rank  must  be 
seen  in  order  to  be  known."  ^  This  may  be  accepted 
as  thoroughly  sound  doctrine,  disregard  of  which  has 
been  responsible  from  time  to  time  for  some  conspicuous 
failures  on  the  part  of  even  the  greatest  novelists. 
Yet  the  general  statement  must  be  qualified  in  the 
ways  already  pointed  out.  Special  information  con- 
cerning the  manners  and  speech  of  particular  classes 
and  callings  is  indeed  a  pre-requisite  of  their  correct 
portraiture.  But  a  broad  and  intimate  knowledge  of 
human  nature  at  large  a  keen  insight  into  the  work- 
ings of  its  common  motives  and  passions,  creative 
power  and  dramatic  sympathy,  will  together  often 
sufifice  to  give  substantial  reality  and  the  unmistakable 
touch  of  truth  to  characters  for  which  scarcely  a  single 
suggestion  can  have  been  taken  directly  from  the 
life. 

^  7^om  /ones,  Book  xiv.,  chap.  i. 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  199 

IV 

Thus  far  we  have  dealt  with  plot  and  characterisa- 
tion separately  ;  but  as  in  practice  they  are 
always  united,  something  must  be  said  about  ^^^g^f 
their  relationships.  ance  of 

In  common  talk  we  distinguish  roughly  c^acter. 
between  two  classes  of  novels — those  in 
which  the  interest  of  character  is  uppermost,  while 
action  is  used  simply  or  mainly  with  reference  to  this ; 
and  those  in  which  the  interest  of  plot  is  uppermost, 
and  characters  are  used  simply  or  mainly  to  carry  on 
the  action.  Quite  inadequate  as  the  distinction  is, 
since,  like  all  such  haphazard  groupings  of  literature, 
it  takes  cognizance  only  of  the  more  extreme  forms, 
it  is  none  the  less  useful  because,  as  indicating 
differences  of  emphasis,  it  suggests  the  question  of  the 
relative  value  of  incident  and  character  in  fiction.  To 
this  question  I  do  not  hesitate  to  reply  that  of  the 
two  elements  characterisation  is  the  more  important  ; 
from  which  it  follows  that  novels  which  have  the 
principal  stress  on  character  rank  higher  as  a  class 
than  those  which  depend  mainly  on  incident.  The 
interest  aroused  by  a  story  merely  as  a  story  may  be 
very  keen  at  the  time  of  reading  ;  but  it  is  in  itself  a 
comparatively  childish  and  transitory  interest,  while 
that  aroused  by  characterisation  is  deep  and  lasting. 
Now,  there  is  ample  evidence  to  show,  as  indeed  one 
might  have  anticipated,  that  a  certain  amount  of 
opposition  always  exists  between  the  claims  of  plot 
and  those  of  character ;  where  attention  is  paid 
primarily  to  plot,  the  characters  have  often  to  be 
forced    into    its    service,    even   at    the    cost    of  some 


200  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUEE 

sacrifice  to  their  consistency  ;  where  attention  is  paid 
primarily  to  character,  the  expansion  of  personality — 
often  quite  unforeseen  at  the  outset — as  the  story 
runs  its  course,  will  frequently  prove  fatal  to  the 
regularity  of  the  plot  design.^  We  now  see  why  the 
novels  which  hold  the  highest  places  in  literature 
are  in  nearly  all  cases  novels  of  character  and  not 
novels  of  plot.  Our  greatest  novelists,  indeed,  have 
habitually  shown  a  disregard  of  mere  plot  sometimes 
amounting  to  positive  carelessness  ;  a  fact  which  ex- 
plains the  generalisation  already  mentioned,  that  a 
really  great  novel  is  likely  as  a  rule  to  approximate 
rather  to  the  loose  than  to  the  organic  type  of  plot- 
structure. 

These  considerations   lead  to  a  principle  of  great 

importance.  While  in  every  novel  plot  and 
^^ation!^  characters    must    be    combined,    there    is    a 

right  way  and  a  wrong  way  of  treating 
their  relationship.  The  wrong  way  is  to  bring  them 
together  arbitrarily  and  without  making  each  depend 
logically  upon  each ;  the  right  way  is  to  conceive 
them  throughout  as  forces  vitally  interacting  in  the 
movement  of  the  story.  In  a  merely  sensational 
novel,  where  the  writer's  main  concern  is  with  his  plot, 
the  machinery  of  the  action  will  commonly  be  found 
to  have  little  to  do,  save  in  the  most  general  sense, 
with  the  personal  qualities  of  the  actors.      The  plot 

^  Scott  may  be  cited  as  a  witness  on  this  point  :  "Alas,  my  dear  sir, 
you  do  not  know  the  force  of  paternal  affection.  When  I  light  on  such 
a  character  as  Bailie  Jarvie  or  Dalgetty,  my  imagination  brightens,  and 
my  conception  becomes  clearer  with  every  stop  I  take  in  his  company, 
although  it  leads  me  many  a  weary  mile  away  from  the  regular  road, 
and  forces  me  to  leap  hedge  and  ditch  to  get  back  into  the  route  again  " 
[Jntroductory  Epistle  to  The  Fortunes  of  Nigel). 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  2oi 

itself  having  been  put  together  with  little  or  no 
reference  to  them,  they  are  simply  puppets  pulled  this 
way  or  that,  as  the  intrigue  demands,  by  the  show- 
man's string.  But  it  is  in  the  personal  qualities  thus 
subordinated  that  in  all  really  good  fiction  the  main- 
springs of  the  action  must  ultimately  be  sought. 
Simple  or  complex,  the  plot  evolves  as  a  natural 
consequence  of  the  fact  that  a  number  of  given  people, 
of  such  and  such  dispositions  and  impelled  by  such 
and  such  motives  and  passions,  are  brought  together 
in  circumstances  which  give  rise  to  an  interplay  of 
influence  or  clash  of  interests  among  them.  The 
circumstances  themselves  may  indeed  count  greatly  as 
co-coperating  factors,  and  an  impersonal  element  may 
thus  combine  with  the  personal  in  the  development  of 
the  action.  Yet  even  so,  the  personal  reaction  to 
circumstance  will  always  remain  a  central  consideration. 
Incident  is  thus  rooted  in  character,  and  is  to  be  ex- 
plained in  terms  of  it.  One  point  to  be  kept  in  view, 
therefore,  in  the  examination  of  a  novel,  is  the  degree  of 
closeness  with  which  plot  and  characters  are  interwoven. 
This  introduces  the  special  question  of  "  motivation." 
"  It  is  a  part  of  the  author's  duty, "  as  Scott 
properly  remarks,  "to  afford  satisfactory  y^^?^^" 
details  upon  the  causes  of  the  separate  events 
he  has  recorded."  This  means  that  in  the  evolution 
of  plot  out  of  character,  the  motives  which  prompt  the 
persons  of  the  story  to  act  as  they  do  must  impress  us 
as  both  in  keeping  with  their  natures  and  adequate  to 
the  resulting  incidents.  If  for  the  sake  of  the  plot  a 
character  is  made  to  take  a  line  of  action  in  contra- 
diction to  the  whole  bias  of  his  disposition,  or  on 
motives  which  seem  insufficient  or  fantastic,  then  the 


202  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

true  relation  of  plot  and  character  is  ignored,  and  the 
art  is  faulty.  We  are  thus  brought  round  again  to 
the  problem  of  psychological  truth,  which,  as  will  now 
be  seen,  is  as  essential  in  the  management  of  plot  as 
in  the  handling  of  character  itself  ^ 


V 

By  a  natural  transition  we  pass  from  the  characters 
of  fiction  to  their  conversation. 

Dialogue,  well  managed,  is  one  of  the  most 
delightful  elements  of  a  novel  ;  it  is  that  part  of  it  in 
which  we  seem  to  get  most  intimately  into  touch  with 
people,  and  in  which  the  written  narrative  most  nearly 
approaches  the  vividness  and  actuality  of  the  acted 
drama.  The  expansion  of  this  element  in  modern 
fiction  is,  therefore,  a  fact  of  great  significance.  Any 
one  who  watches  an  uncritical  reader  running  over  the 
pages  of  a  novel  for  the  purpose  of  judging  in  advance 
whether  or  not  it  will  be  to  his  taste,  will  notice  that 
the  proportion  of  dialogue  to  compact  chronical  and 

^  Thus  the  rule  of  the  "conservation  of  character  "  is  broken,  when,  in 
order  to  bring  a  story  to  a  close,  some  character  is  represented  as  under- 
going a  complete  and  violent  change  of  heart.  Fielding  complained  of 
modern  writers  of  comedy  on  this  head:  "Their  heroes  generally  are 
notorious  rogues,  and  their  heroines  abandoned  jades,  during  the  first  four 
acts ;  but  in  the  fifth,  the  former  become  very  worthy  gentlemen,  the 
latter  women  of  virtue  and  discretion.  There  is,  indeed,  no  other  reason 
to  be  assigned  for  it,  than  because  the  play  is  drawing  to  a  conclusion  " 
{Tom  Jones,  Book  viii.,  chap.  i).  A  classic  example  of  this  fault  is  fur- 
nished by  the  first  of  our  English  novels,  Pamela,  in  the  facile  conversion  at 
the  right  moment  of  Mr  B.,  who  is  transformed  from  a  profligate  into  "one 
of  the  best  and  most  exemplary  of  men."  Illustrations  of  unsatisfactory 
motivation  in  the  inception  of  a  plot  may  often  be  found  in  Dickens  ;  e.g.y 
in  the  origin  of  the  long-sustained  deceptions  practised  by  Old  Martin  in 
Martin  Chuzzlewit  and  by  The  Golden  Dustman  in  Our  Mutual  Friend, 


THE  STUDY  OF  PEOSE  FICTION  203 

description  is  almost  always  an  important  factor  in 
the  decision.  Nor  is  the  uncritical  reader  to  be 
condemned  on  this  account.  His  instinct  is  sound. 
Good  dialogue  greatly  brightens  a  narrative,  and  its 
judicious  and  timely  use  is  to  be  regarded  as  evidence 
of  a  writer's  technical  skill. 

Investigation  shows  that  while  dialogue  may 
frequently  be  employed  in  the  evolution  of  the  plot — 
the  action  moving  (as  often  in  the  drama)  beneath 
the  conversation — its  principal  function  is  in  direct 
connection  with  character.  It  has  immense  value 
in  the  exhibition  of  passions,  motives,  feelings  ;  of  the 
reaction  of  the  speakers  to  the  events  in  which  they 
are  taking  part ;  and  of  their  influence  upon  one 
another.  In  the  hands  of  a  novelist  who  leans 
strongly  towards  the  dramatic  method,  it  may  thus 
often  be  made  to  fill  the  place  and  perform  the  work 
of  analysis  and  commentary.  Where  this  can  be  done 
naturally  and  effectively,  the  gain,  as  I  have  already 
pointed  out,  is  considerable.  Even  where  the  ana- 
lytical method  is  freely  used,  dialogue  will  prove  of 
constant  service  as  a  vivifying  supplement  to  it. 

The  chief  requirements  which  dialogue  should 
fulfil  may  be  briefly  formulated.  ^^^^^  ^^ 

In  the  first  place,  it  should  always  con-  toe  applied 
stitute  an  organic  element  in  the  story  ;  that 
is,  it  should  really  contribute,  directly  or  indirectly, 
either  to  the  movement  of  the  plot  or  to  the  eluci- 
dation of  the  characters  in  their  relations  with  it. 
Extraneous  conversation,  however  clever  or  amusing 
in  itself,  is  therefore  to  be  condemned  for  precisely 
the  same  reason  as  we  condemn  any  interjected 
discourse    on    miscellaneous    topics    by    the    author 


204  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

himself;  namely,  that  having  no  connection  with  the 
matter  in  hand,  it  breaks  the  fundamental  law  of  unity. 
Examples  of  such  infraction  will  be  found  in  plenty  in 
the  discussions  on  politics,  society,  literature  and  art, 
which  fill  so  many  pages  in  the  novels  of  Bulwer 
Lytton.  Conversation  extended  beyond  the  actual 
needs  of  the  plot  is  to  be  justified  only  when  it  has  a 
distinct  significance  in  the  exposition  of  character. 

Beyond  having  this  organic  connection  with  the 
action,  dialogue  should  be  natural,  appropriate,  and 
dramatic ;  which  means  that  it  should  be  in  keeping 
with  the  personality  of  the  speakers ;  suitable  to 
the  situation  in  which  it  occurs ;  and  easy,  fresh, 
vivid,  and  interesting.  It  is  evident  that  these  are 
elementary  conditions  of  good  dialogue.  Yet  it  must 
be  noted  that  the  last-named  of  them  is  to  a  certain 
degree  in  antagonism  to  the  other  two,  and  that 
to  fulfil  them  all  in  combination  is  possible  only 
by  a  delicate  compromise  which  it  is  one  of  the 
most  difficult  parts  of  the  novelist's  art  to  attain. 
The  actual  talk  of  ordinary  people,  and  even  the 
talk  of  brilliant  people  in  exceptional  situations,  would, 
if  realistically  reproduced,  seem  hopelessly  slipshod, 
discursive,  and  ineffective  ;  while  on  the  other  hand 
there  is  a  constant  danger  lest,  in  his  effort  to  escape 
from  the  flat  and  commonplace,  the  writer  should 
become  just  as  hopelessly  stilted,  bookish  and  uncon- 
vincing. "  In  a  quarrel  that  takes  place  in  real  life," 
says  Mr  Henry  Arthur  Jones,  ''  you  will  find  a  great 
many  undramatic  repetitions  and  anti-climaxes,  and 
sometimes  a  vast  amount  of  unnecessary  language. 
On  the  stage  all  this  has  to  be  avoided."^     In  the 

^  On  Play  making,  in  The  Renascence  of  the  English  Drama, 


THE  STUDY  OF  PKOSE  FICTION  205 

novel,  too,  all  this  has  to  be  avoided ;  but  in  the 
one  case  as  in  the  other,  while  the  periphrases  and 
ineptitudes  of  an  actual  altercation  must  be  eliminated 
and  the  entire  matter  re- cast  with  an  eye  to  dramatic 
effect,  theatrical  declamation  is  not  to  be  accepted 
as  the  proper  substitute  for  racy  and  natural  utterance. 
It  was  one  of  the  besetting  sins  of  Dickens  that, 
master  though  he  was  of  admirable  dialogue,  he 
habitually  fell  into  melodramatic  rant  and  bombast 
in  scenes  of  tragic  stress  or  passion.  It  will  be 
admitted  by  all  but  the  most  uncompromising  realists 
that  to  use  the  exact  language  which  such  a  girl 
as  Alice  Marwood  would  have  employed  in  her  pas- 
sionate outbursts  of  anger  and  hatred,  would  never 
do  at  all ;  but  then  the  language  which  Dickens  puts 
into  her  mouth,  not  one  syllable  of  which  rings  true, 
will  never  do  either.^  To  find  the  proper  mean 
between  such  extremes,  alike  in  ordinary  conversations 
and  in  situations  of  emotional  intensity,  is  the 
problem  which  the  novelist  has  to  solve.  He  has 
to  edit  and  re-fashion  his  dialogue,  but  to  do  this 
without  taking  the  genuine  flavour  out  of  it.  His 
aim  must  therefore  be,  not  to  report  the  actual  talk 
of  everyday  men  and  women,  but  to  give  such 
a  conventionalised  version  of  this  as  shall  at  once 
maintain  the  required  dramatic  rapidity  and  power, 
and  leave  the  reader  with  a  satisfying  general  sense 
of  naturalness  and  reality. 

^  Dombey  and  Son^  chap,  xxxiv.     Cf.  Gissing's  Dickens,  chap.  v. 


2o6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

VI 

In  speaking  of  plot,  characterisation,  and  dialogue 
in  prose  fiction  I  have  not,  it  will  be  remarked, 
Pathos, '     made  any  overt  reference,  though  reference 
^^^  has    several    times    been    implied,    to    the 

question  of  the  novelist's  powers  of  humour, 
pathos,  and  tragic  effect.  These  special  attributes 
are  so  conspicuous  by  their  presence  or  absence, 
as  the  case  may  be,  and  they  are  so  inevitably 
recognised  or  missed  by  even  the  most  careless  reader, 
that  it  is  unnecessary  to  do  more  than  make  passing 
mention  of  them.  It  is  no  less  evident  that  in 
our  estimate  of  any  novelist's  work  as  a  whole,  there 
are  two  points  which  in  particular  will  here  come 
up  for  examination.  There  is  first  the  question 
of  the  extent  and  limitations  of  his  powers.  In 
the  comparative  study  of  fiction  this  question  has 
some  interest,  since  one  writer  is  weak  in  humour 
who  is  strong  in  pathos  ;  with  another  the  conditions 
are  reversed  ;  a  third  is  most  at  home  among  the 
fiercer  passions  ;  while  here  and  there  we  may  find 
one  who  has  something  of  Shakespeare's  assured 
mastery  of  many  moods,  and  can  touch  us  with 
equal  certainty  to  mirth,  to  pity,  to  terror.  Secondly, 
there  is  the  more  important  question  of  the  quality 
of  his  accomplishment  in  any  of  these  directions  ; 
for  humour  may  vary  from  broad  farce  to  the  subtlest 
innuendoes  of  high  comedy ;  pathos  from  weak 
sentimentalism  to  the  most  delicate  play  of  tender 
feeling ;  tragedy  from  a  crude  revelling  in  merely 
material  horrors  to  the  most  soul-moving  calamities 
of    the    moral    and    spiritual    life.      Without    further 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  207 

discussion  it  may  be  taken  for  granted  that  in  the 
study  of  any  novel  or  author  both  these  questions 
of  range  and  quality  of  emotional  effect  will  be 
considered  as  a  matter  of  course. 

It  must  however  be  added  that,  simple  as  it  may 
at  first  seem,  the  question  of  quality  involves 
the    large    and    in     some     respects    difficult  ^^^j^^^^*^^^^ 
problem  of  the  use  and  abuse  of  the  emotional  Emotional 
elements  in  fiction.      This  problem  has  many  p^®^^^*  ^^ 
sides,    one    or   two    of   which    only  can   be 
indicated  here. 

That  humour,  one  of  the  greatest  endowments  of 

s^enius  and  the  one  which  beyond  all  others 

Humour, 
should     help     to    keep     a    novelist's    work 

sane  and  wholesome,  may  yet  be  misemployed  in 
various  ways,  will  readily  be  perceived.  It  is  mis- 
employed, for  example,  when  it  is  enlisted  in  the 
service  of  indecency  or  used  to  turn  to  ridicule  what 
should  arouse  sympathy  or  the  sense  of  revulsion 
rather  than  mirth.  To  lay  down  an  abstract  rule  is 
impossible,  for  many  things  which  are  intrinsically 
pitiable  or  disgusting,  like  drunkenness,  have  still 
their  comic  aspect,  and  may  therefore  rightly  be 
handled  in  the  comic  way.  Often  too  such  comic 
handling  is  morally  most  effective,  and  for  this 
reason  humour  has  always  been  a  potent  in- 
strument for  the  correction  of  manners  and  the 
castigation  of  vice.  Much  depends  upon  spirit 
and  treatment.  But  we  are  at  least  safe  in  say- 
ing that  when  our  laughter  is  stirred  it  shall  be 
by  no  unworthy  subjects,  that  it  shall  not  partake 
of  cruelty,  and  that  it  shall  leave  no  bad  taste  in 
the  mouth. 


2o8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

A  similar  problem  confronts  us  in  connection  with 
The  Painful  the  painful  emotions.  Why  we  enjoy  them 
Emotions.  ^^  ^n  vv^hen  we  experience  them  in  the  mimic 
world  of  art,  is  a  question  concerning  which,  since 
Aristotle  started  it  in  a  famous  passage  in  the  Poetics, 
much  has  been  written  and  countless  theories  pro- 
pounded. That  we  do  enjoy  them  is  at  any  rate  a 
patent  fact,  while  the  place  that  they  occupy  in  much 
of  the  world's  greatest  imaginative  literature  testifies 
eloquently  to  the  depth  and  permanence  of  their 
appeal.  Yet  these  painful  emotions  may  easily  be 
abused,  and  often  have  been  abused.  Sentiment  may 
degenerate  into  sentimentalism  and  an  unhealthy 
indulgence  in  the  luxury  of  grief,  and  no  one  will 
deny  the  danger  of  this  tendency  who  remembers 
how  much  fiction  is  written  with  the  express 
purpose  of  satisfying  a  wide-spread  craving  for  this 
particular  kind  of  morbid  excitement  in  weak  or  over- 
sensitive natures.  In  the  same  way,  the  proper 
bounds  of  tragic  feeling  may  be  over-stepped  or  its 
power  perverted,  as  in  the  numerous  instances  in 
which  descriptions  of  suffering  are  drawn  out  to  a  point 
at  which  they  become  positively  agonising,  or  the 
reader  is  compelled  to  linger  over  scenes  the  whole 
effect  of  which  depends  upon  their  profusion  of  patho- 
logical detail.  Once  more  it  is  impossible  to  formulate 
general  principles  for  the  guidance  of  taste,  for 
healthy  sentiment  passes  by  insensible  degrees  into 
sickly  sentimentalism,  while  the  border-line  between 
the  tragic  horror  which  is  justifiable  and  that  which 
is  unjustifiable  is  equally  shifting  and  vague.  We  can 
only  suggest  the  importance  of  watching  carefully  the 
after-effect  of  fiction  upon  ourselves.     If,  the  spell  of 


THE  STUDY  OF  PEOSE  FICTION  209 

the  moment  being  broken,  we  look  back  on  a  novel 
we  have  just  been  reading  and  become  conscious  that 
we  have  been  tricked  into  strong  feeling  without 
sufficient  or  upon  unworthy  cause,  that  our  emotion 
has  been  merely  factitious  and  will  not  stand  the 
impartial  judgment  of  the  next  day,  or  that  the 
interest  aroused  has  been  of  that  gross  and  morbid 
kind  which  leaves  a  taint  upon  the  mind,  then,  no 
matter  what  may  be  its  artistic  merits,  the  book 
must  stand  condemned.  A  rough  test  is  thus  pro- 
vided, and  though  it  is  only  a  rough  one,  in  practice 
it  should  prove  of  some  utility. 

VII 

We  turn  next  to  the  question  of  setting  in  a  novel,  or 
what  we  have  called  its  time  and  place  of  setting  in 
action.  In  this  term  we  include  the  entire  tii®  Novel. 
milieu  of  a  story — the  manners,  customs,  ways  of 
life,  which  enter  into  its  composition,  as  well  as  its 
natural  background  or  environment.  We  may  there- 
fore distinguish  two  kinds  of  setting — the  social  and 
the  material. 

One    marked    feature     of     modern     fiction    is    its 
specialisation.       Fielding  probably  intended         . 
to   give    in    Tom    Jones    a    fairly    complete  tionin 
picture    of    the    English    life   of    his    time.  ^°JfJj^ 
Balzac  and  Zola  alike  attempted,  not  in  one 
novel  but  in  a  series  of  novels,  to  embrace  the  whole 
of  French  civilisation  in  all  its  phases  and  ramifica- 
tions.    How  far   in  these,   and  in   other  such  cases, 
success  has  been  achieved,  it  is  unnecessary  now  to 
inquire.     We    have   only  to   note   the   fact   that  few 


2IO  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

novelists  have  written  with  so  comprehensive  an  aim. 
The  tendency  of  the  modern  novel  to  spread  out  in 
all  directions  until  it  has  become  practically  coexten- 
sive with  the  complex  modern  world,  has  inevitably 
been  accompanied  by  a  parallel  tendency  towards  the 
subdivision  of  its  subject-matter.  A  certain  largeness 
of  design  is  indeed  often  noticeable,  as  in  the  work  of 
Dickens  ;  yet,  for  the  most  part,  life  is  rather  treated 
in  sections,  each  novel  concerning  itself  chiefly  with 
one  or  two  aspects  of  the  great  social  comedy.  Thus 
we  have  novels  of  the  sea  and  of  military  life  ;  of  the 
upper  classes,  the  middle  classes,  the  lower  classes ; 
of  industrial  life,  commercial  life,  artistic  life,  clerical 
life  ;  and  so  on.  Subdivision  also  follows  topographi- 
cal lines,  as  in  the  innumerable  novels  of  different 
localities  and  of  local  types  of  character :  Scotch 
novels,  Irish  novels,  *'  Wessex  "  novels;  the  "  sectional" 
stories  which  have  long  been  popular  in  America ; 
and  many  novels  in  French  literature  which,  like 
Daudet's  wonderful  studies  of  the  southern  tempera- 
ment, have  a  similar  concentration  of  interest. 
Frequently,  of  course,  the  local  type  of  character  is 
presented  amid  its  natural  surroundings,  but  often  its 
peculiarities  are  brought  out  by  the  device  of  trans- 
planting it  into  another  and  contrasted  environment. 
Whichever  plan  is  adopted,  it  is  evident  that  in  all 
novels  in  which  particular  phases  of  life  are  kept  to 
the  fore,  characterisation  and  social  setting  are  vitally 
associated,  and  each  element  must  therefore  be  con- 
Speciai  sidered  in  its  connection  with  the  other. 
Social  But  it  must  further  be  remembered  that 
mgs.  i^any  novels  owe  much  of  their  attractiveness 
and  literary  value  to  their  skilful  portrayal  of  the  life 


THE  STUDY  OF  PEOSE  FICTION  211 

and  manners  of  special  classes,  social  groups,  or 
places.  At  this  point  the  work  of  the  novelist 
has  again  to  be  judged  by  the  accuracy  and  power 
of  his  descriptions. 

These  principles  hold  good  for  the  historical  novel, 
which  aims  to  combine  the  dramatic  interest  of  plot 
and  character  with  a  more  or  less  detailed  picture  of 
the  varied  features  of  the  life  of  a  particular  get^i^^  ^ 
age.  Sometimes  the  historical  setting  has  Historical 
comparatively  little  to  do  with  the  essence  of  ^^^*^®^- 
the  narrative,  the  basis  of  which  is  provided  rather  by 
the  permanent  facts  of  experience  than  by  the  forms 
which  these  facts  assume  in  special  circumstances. 
George  Eliot  utilises  in  Roniola  the  setting  of  the 
Italian  Renaissance,  and  gives  a  laborious  study  not 
only  of  the  outer  life  but  also  of  the  peculiar  intellectual 
movements  and  spiritual  struggles  of  that  strange  and 
brilliant  period.  Yet  the  central  tragedy  of  Tito's 
downfall  is  largely  independent  of  the  historical  sur- 
roundings —  a  fact  which  she  herself  indicates  in 
advance  by  dwelling  as  she  does  in  her  introductory 
chapter  on  the  broad  uniformities  of  human  life  beneath 
all  superficial  variations  of  place  and  time.  Some- 
times, on  the  other  hand,  the  permanent  is  so  bound 
up  with  the  temporary  and  interpenetrated  by  it,  that 
the  setting  becomes  an  essential  element  in  the  human 
drama  itself.  This  is  illustrated  in  Hawthorne's 
Scarlet  Letter,  As  a  study  of  sin  and  the  effects  of 
sin  upon  the  soul,  this  powerful  romance  transcends 
all  conditions  of  time  and  place.  But  the  actual 
tragedy  is  wrought  out  of  the  materials  furnished  by 
New  England  Puritanism,  and  permanent  moral  issues 
thus  assume  in  it  a  local  and  temporary  form.     While 


212  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

therefore  it  is  possible  to  think  of  Tito's  story  with 
little  reference  to  the  particular  phases  of  life  which 
constitute  its  background,  to  think  in  this  way  of  the 
story  of  Arthur  Dimmesdale  and  Hester  Prynne  is 
impossible.  It  will  thus  always  be  well  to  observe 
the  connection  between  theme  and  setting  and  the 
extent  to  which  the  latter  is  essential  to  the  former. 
In  some  cases  we  shall  find  that  the  plot  and  characters 
are  used  simply  to  focus  the  outstanding  features  of 
the  period  dealt  with ;  as  in  Newman's  Callista  and 
Pater's  Gaston  de  Latour, 

In  whatever  way  the  setting  may  be  treated,  how- 
ever, the  interest  of  an  historical  novel  will  always 
inhere  in  part — for  this  in  one  sense  is  the  very 
justification  of  its  existence — in  its  vivid  reproduction 
of  the  life  of  a  by-gone  age.  Here  again  the  tests  to 
be  applied  are  those  of  descriptive  power  and 
substantial  accuracy.  It  is  the  business  of  the 
historical  novelist  to  bring  creative  imagination  to 
bear  upon  the  dry  facts  of  the  annalist  and  the 
antiquarian,  and  out  of  a  mass  of  scattered  material 
gleaned  from  a  variety  of  sources,  to  evolve  a  picture 
having  the  fulness  and  unity  of  a  work  of  art.  It  is 
this  power  of  making  real  and  picturesque  some 
particular  period  of  civilisation,  and  of  doing  this 
without  any  suggestion  of  the  dry  -  as  -  dust  and 
pedantic,  that  the  ordinary  reader  values  most  in  the 
writer  of  historical  fiction.  About  the  question  of  his 
scholarship  and  fidelity  he  probably  troubles  himself 
little.^     That  question  must,  however,  ultimately  enter 

^  Occasionally  the  novelist  provides  some  record  of  his  sources  and  thus 
throws  light  upon  his  preparation  and  equipment  for  his  task.  Scott  does 
this  to  some  extent  in  his  prefaces  and  notes.  A  full  display  of 
authorities  will  be  found  in  Becker's  Gallus  and  Charichs.     These  works 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  213 

into   our   estimate   of   any   novel   which    purports    to 

describe  a  past  epoch,  though  it  is  far  too  large  and 

complex    to    admit    of    consideration     here. 

.  The 

Two   points    only   may  just  be    mentioned.  Question  of 

In  the  first  place,  while  of  course  an  historical  Anachron- 

^  ism. 

novel  should  adhere  to  truth  in  the  narrative 

of  such  actual  events  as  fall  with  its  compass,  it  is  far 

more  important  that  it  should  represent  faithfully  the 

manners,  tone,  and  temper  of  the  age  with  which  it 

deals.     Thus  we    blame    Scott    because    he    is  often 

guilty  of  anachronism  in  detail ;  as  when  he  brings 

Prince  Charlie  back  to  Scotland  after  Culloden,  and 

makes  Shakespeare  the  author  of  ^  Midsummer  Nights 

Dream  at  a  time  when  he  could  have  been  only  some 

eleven  years  old  ;  but  still  more  we  blame  him  because 

in  Ivanhoe — which  is  from  first  to  last  one  sustained 

anachronism — he  gives  us  a  totally  false  impression  of 

the  life   and  spirit  of  the  Middle  Ages.      Secondly, 

though,  despite    his   many  defects  as    an  interpreter 

of  history,  Scott  still   remains  our  greatest  historical 

novelist,  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that  the  sense  of  the 

importance  of  truth  in  historical  fiction  has  developed 

enormously  since  his  time.     The  historical  novel  was 

in  part  a  product  of  the  romantic  movement,  and  in 

the  hands  of  a  writer  like  Dumas,  it  was  almost  pure 

romance.      But  the  scientific  spirit  has  now  invaded  it, 

and  the  writer  who  undertakes  to  rehabilitate  the  past 

has  in  a  measure  to  accept  the  responsibilities  of  the 

however,  can  scarcely  be  classed  among  historical  novels,  as  the  slight 
story  is  avowedly  contrived  only  as  the  vehicle  for  a  study  in  the  one 
case  of  Roman,  in  the  other  of  Greek  antiquities,  and  the  human  interest 
is  wholly  subordinated  to  this  scholarly  purpose.  A  similar  remark  may 
be  made  of  Strutt's  unfinished  Queenhoo  Hall,  concerning  which  see 
Scott's  General  Introduction  to  The  Waverley  Novels. 


214  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUBE 

chronicler.      He  has  thus  to  satisfy  at  once  the  claims 
of  history  and  the  claims  of  art. 

Of  the  other  kind  of  setting  in  fiction — the  material 
Material  — little  needs  to  be  said.  Every  reader  will 
Betting.  perforce  note  for  himself  the  difference  between 
novelists  who,  like  Jane  Austen,  pay  slight  attention 
to  the  milieu  of  their  scenes,  and  those  who,  like 
Balzac  and  Dickens,  specially  delight  in  minute 
descriptions  of  streets,  houses,  and  interiors ;  while 
the  question  of  skill,  vividness,  method,  and  general 
artistic  value,  will  just  as  inevitably  come  up  for 
consideration.  There  is,  however,  one  special  problem 
connected  with  material  setting  which  should  perhaps 
be  emphasised.  In  our  examination  of  a  novelist's 
The  Use  of  use  of  nature,  our  first  concern  will  be  with 
Nature.  j^jg  power  as  a  landscape  painter.  But  it 
must  be  remembered  that,  like  the  narrative  poet,  he 
may  treat  the  natural  background  and  accessories  of 
his  action  in  various  ways.  He  may  introduce  them 
for  picturesque  purposes  only  and  without  relating 
them  to  his  human  drama ;  or  he  may  associate  them 
directly  with  his  drama  either  through  contrast  or 
^"^^  through  sympathy.  There  is,  for  instance,  a  touch  of 
contrast  suggested  by  the  fact,  though  it  is  not 
mentioned  in  the  scene  itself,  that  little  Paul  Dombey's 
death  occurs  on  a  fine  Sunday  in  June  ;  there  is,  on 
the  other  hand,  a  hint  of  sympathy  when  Barkis  dies 
at  the  hour  of  the  outgoing  tide.  Hawthorne  makes 
effective  use  of  contrast  when  he  shows  the  "  fresh, 
transparent,  cloudless  morning"  peeping  through  the 
windows  of  the  silent  chamber  in  which  Judge 
Pyncheon  sits  dead ;  Daudet  employs  the  opposed 
principle  of  sympathy  when  in  Le  Nabab  he  describes 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  215 

the  pitiless  deluge  of  rain  at  the  close  of  the  day 
which  had  witnessed  the  absolute  collapse  of  Jan- 
soulet's  great  fete.  Of  these  two  methods,  that  of 
making  external  conditions  harmonise  with  the  action  or 
the  mood  of  the  characters  is  the  more  common.  The 
use  of  nature  in  sympathy  with  man  is  indeed  one  of 
the  most  familiar  of  all  dramatic  devices ;  and  the 
connection  is  often  accentuated  to  the  full  and  most 
elaborately  worked  out ;  as  in  the  many  storms  which, 
as  every  novel-reader  will  remember,  synchronise  with 
and  intensify  situations  of  tragic  power.  The  effect 
of  contrast,  of  course,  depends  upon  the  sense  of 
nature's  ironical  indifference  to  human  joys  and  sorrows, 
which  are  thus  thrown  into  greater  relief.  In  the 
sympathetic  use  of  natural  background  nature  often 
becomes  almost  symbolical. 

VIII 

It  remains  for  us  now  to  consider  that  sixth  element 
in  the  novel  which  we  have  described  as  the 
writer's  criticism,  interpretation,  or  philosophy    NoveUst'a 
of  life.  Criticism 

I  put  the  matter  first  in  its  simplest  form. 
Like  the  drama,  the  novel  is  concerned  directly  with 
life — with  men  and  women,  and  their  relationships, 
with  the  thoughts  and  feelings,  the  passions  and 
motives  by  which  they  are  governed  and  impelled, 
with  their  joys  and  sorrows,  their  struggles,  successes, 
failures.  Since,  then,  the  novelist's  theme  is  life,  in 
one  or  several  of  its  innumerable  aspects,  it  is  im- 
possible for  him  not  to  give,  expressly  or  by  implica- 
tion, some  suggestion  at  least,  if  nothing  more  than  a 


2i6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

suggestion,  of  the  impression  which  life  makes  upon  him. 
Little  as  he  may  dream  of  using  his  narrative 
as  the  vehicle  of  any  special  theories  or 
ideas,  certain  theories  or  ideas  will  none  the  less  be 
found  embodied  in  it,  and  even  the  slightest  story  will 
yield  under  analysis  a  more  or  less  distinct  underlying 
conception  of  the  moral  values  of  the  characters  and 
incidents  of  which  it  is  composed.  To  this  extent, 
therefore,  if  no  further,  every  novel,  no  matter  how 
trivial,  may  be  said  to  rest  upon  a  certain  view  of  the 
world,  to  incorporate  or  connote  various  general  prin- 
ciples, and  thus  to  present  a  rough  general  philosophy 
of  life. 

To  this  statement  the  reply  may  be  made  that  it 
would  manifestly  be  absurd  to  talk  about  a  philosophy 
of  life  in  connection  with  the  ordinary  run  of  our 
ephemeral  works  of  fiction,  which  have  no  depth  of 
interest,  and  are  written  with  no  purpose  beyond 
that  of  providing  amusement  for  the  idle  hour.  Un- 
doubtedly. But  this  is  not  because  some  kind  of 
philosophy  is  not  there  ;  it  is  only  because  it  is  not 
fresh  and  serious  enough  and  is  not  expressed  with 
sufficient  truth  and  power,  to  be  worthy  of  considera- 
tion. But  the  great  novelists  have  been  thinkers 
about  life  as  well  as  observers  of  it ;  and  their 
knowledge  of  character,  their  insight  into  motive  and 
passion,  their  illuminative  treatment  of  the  enduring 
facts  and  problems  of  experience,  to  say  nothing  of 
the  ripe  wisdom  which  they  often  bring  to  bear  upon 
their  task,  combine  to  give  to  their  view  of  the  world 
a  moral  significance  which  no  thoughtful  reader  is 
likely  to  overlook.  How  important  this  philosophical 
element  in  their  work  really  is,  is  strikingly  shown  by 


THE  STUDY  01^  PROSE  FICTION  217 

the  fact  that  in  discussing  any  great  novel  we  soon 
find  ourselves  involved  in  the  discussion  of  life  itself.^ 
It  is  not  to  be  understood  by  this  that  we  are  to 
think  of  a  novelist  as  starting  out  to  expound  a  set 
body  of  ethical  doctrines,  or  as  contriving  his  story  as 
an  embodiment  of  certain  ideas  about  life.  This 
would  be  to  misconceive  grossly  the  attitude  and 
method  of  the  true  creative  artist.  Of  the  question  of 
purpose  in  the  novel  something  will  be  said 
presently.  For  the  moment  we  have  only  NoveUst's 
to  insist  that  philosophical  significance  does  ^9"itof 
not  necessarily  imply  any  preliminary  philo- 
sophic aim.  What  a  novelist  thinks  about  life  will 
inevitably  guide  him,  consciously  or  unconsciously,  in 
the  arrangement  of  his  plot  and  the  treatment  of  his 
characters.  But  his  primary  concern  is  not  with 
abstract  questions  but  with  the  concrete  facts  of  life, 
and  he  may — I  do  not  say  that  he  generally  does, 
but  that  he  may — handle  these  concrete  facts  without 
any  effort  or  desire  to  suggest  their  moral  meanings. 
It  is  certainly  safe  to  assume — to  take  the  example  of 
the  greatest  creative  power  in  literature — that  Shake- 
speare's interest  throughout  was  in  concrete  facts — 
in  action  and  character  as  such.  There  is  therefore  a 
sense  in  which  it  would  be  quite  unwarrantable  to 
speak  of  Shakespeare  as  a  moralist  at  all.  Yet,  even 
if  we  waive  the  question  whether  he  himself  cared  in 
the  least  about  the  ethical  problems  involved  in  his 
plays,  there  is  another  sense  in  which  he  may  be 
regarded  as  one  of  the  greatest  of  moralists.     Thus 

^  Thus  Prof.  Moulton  properly  notes  that,  of  what  passes  current  as 
commentary  on  Shakespeare,  "  the  vast  proportion  is  comment  upon 
human  life  itself,  touched  as  life  is  at  myriad  points  by  the  creations  of 
the  Shakespearean  Drama"  {The  Moral  System  of  Shakespeare ,  p.  5). 


2i8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Prof.  Moulton  is  entirely  justified  in  discussing  the 
"  moral  system  of  Shakespeare "  ;  by  which  phrase 
he  does  not  mean  that  Shakespeare  wrote  his  dramas 
to  prove  any  thesis  or  convey  any  lesson,  or  that  he 
had  any  thesis  or  lesson  in  mind  while  composing 
them  ;  but  simply  that,  as  they  stand,  they  actually 
present  "  a  vast  body "  of  "  creative  observations  in 
human  life,"  which  "  invite  arrangement  and  disposition 
into  general  truths."  In  precisely  the  same  way,  if  in 
no  other,  we  may  speak  of  the  moral  system  of  any 
great  novelist,  and  regard  his  works  as  bodies  of 
"  creative  observations "  capable  and  worthy  of  being 
formulated  into  general  truths. 

Such   moral  system,  or  philosophy  of  life,  may  be 

given,  and  commonly  is  given,  in  the  novel 
Resenting  ^"  ^^'°  ways.  In  the  first  place,  like  the 
a  Criticism  dramatist,  the  novelist  interprets  life  by  his 
the  Novel,   ^i^re  representation  of  it.      He  selects  certain 

materials  out  of  the  mass  which  life  offers  to 

him  ;  by  his  arrangement  of  these  he  brings  certain 

^  facts    and     forces    into    relief:     he    exhibits 

The  ' 

Dramatic,  character  and  motive  under  certain  lights ; 
or  Uidirect  ^^^^  jj^  ^^le  conduct  of  his  plot  indicates  his 
view  of  the  moral  balance  among  the  things 
which  make  up  our  human  experience.  As  Prof. 
Moulton  puts  it, "  every  play  of  Shakespeare,"  critically 
examined,  turns  out  to  be  "  a  microcosm,  of  which  the 
author  is  the  creator,  and  the  plot  its  providential 
scheme."  Similarly,  every  novel  is  a  microcosm,  of 
which  the  author  is  the  creator  and  the  plot  the  provi- 
dential scheme.  Merely  by  selection  and  organisation 
of  material,  emphasis,  presentation  of  character  and 
development   of  story,  the    novelist    shows    us   in    a 


THE  STUDY  OF  PBOSE  FICTION  219 

general  way  what  he  thinks  about  life ;  and  it  is  one 
business  of  criticism  to  reduce  this  scattered  and 
implied  philosophy  to  a  systematic  statement  of  funda- 
mental principles. 

Thus  far  the  novelist's  course  is  the  same  as  the 
dramatist's  :  they  both  interpret  life  by  representation. 
But  while  the  dramatist  is  confined  to  this  indirect 
method,  the  novelist  is  able,  if  he  chooses,  to  supple- 
ment it  by  direct  personal  commentary  and  The  Direct 
explanation.  He  can,  as  it  were,  step  before  ^^y- 
the  curtain,  elucidate  the  action,  discuss  the  characters 
and  their  motives,  and  generalise  on  the  moral  questions 
suggested  by  them.  Where  he  avails  himself  of  the 
privilege  afforded  by  the  free  form  of  the  novel  to  do 
this,  he  becomes  himself  the  interpreter  of  the  mimic 
world  he  has  called  into  existence,  and  therefore  of 
life  at  large ;  thus  anticipating  the  critic  in  the  task 
of  systematising  and  formulating  his  thought. 

In  estimating  the  philosophy  of  life  contained  in 

any  novel,  we  have  to  test  it  from  two  points 

of  view — that  of  its   truth  and  that    of  its  Novelist's 

morality.     But    in  applying  these  tests,  we  Philosophy 

,  ,  .  ,01  Life. 

must  be  on  our  guard  agamst  some  rather 

serious  misconceptions  which  are  current  in  respect  of 

them. 

The  truth  we  demand  in  fiction  is  not  identical  with 

the  truth  we  demand    from  science.     Plato   Truth  in 

made  the  mistake  of  confusing  them,  holding   ^ic^io^^- 

that   all    imaginative  literature    is "  false "  because    it 

does  not  reproduce  the  actual  facts  of  existence ;  that 

Homer's  poetry,   for  instance,  is  full  of  "  lies."     Even 

to-day  we  may  meet  with  people  who  are  more  or  less 

troubled  by  this  difficulty,  and  who,  failing  to  perceive 


220  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

any  difference  between  fiction  and  falsehood,  look  askance 
at  all  kinds  of  fictitious  writing  in  consequence.  But 
with  the  penetrative  insight  which  carried  him  to  the 
heart  of  so  many  questions,  Aristotle  pointed  out  the 
fallacy  of  Plato's  view,  rightly  maintaining  the  exis- 
tence in  all  great  works  of  the  imagination  of  a  "  poetic 
truth  "  which  is  really  deeper  and  more  comprehensive 
than  the  mere  literal  fidelity  to  fact  which  we  expect 
in  the  work  of  the  historian.  For  while  the  historian 
is  bound  down  to  things  which,  in  Charles  Reade's 
witty  phrase,  have  gone  through  the  formality  of  taking 
place,  the  creative  artist  is  limited  only  by  what 
Aristotle  called  "  ideal  probability."  In  the  one  case, 
truth  means  fidelity  to  what  was  or  is  ;  in  the  other, 
fidelity  to  what  may  be.  Already  the  great  Greek 
philosopher  detected  the  distinction,  for  a  clear 
statement  of  which  we  are  indebted  to  De  Quincey, 
between  the  literature  of  knowledge  and  the  literature 
of  power.  The  literature  of  knowledge  must  be 
judged  by  its  accuracy  in  matters  of  fact ;  and  with 
every  step  forward  taken  by  science,  it  necessarily 
becomes  antiquated.  Thus  it  is  that  our  text  books 
of  biology  and  physics  have  perpetually  to  be  re-written, 
and  that  even  our  histories  have  continually  to  be 
revised.  But  the  truth  of  the  literature  of  power  is 
fidelity  to  the  great  essential  motives  and  impulses, 
passions  and  principles,  which  shape  the  lives  of  men 
and  women  ;  and  because  these  change  so  little  amid 
all  the  vast  upheavals  of  the  ages,  the  books  which 
have  in  them  this  supreme  element  of  essential  truth 
remain,  however  old  in  years,  as  fresh  and  vital  in  their 
human  interest  as  in  the  days  when  they  were  written. 
Aristotle's    own    science    has    now    only    a    curious 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  221 

significance  for  the  special  student  of  thought,  but 
when  are  we  likely  to  outgrow  the  Odyssey,  Agmnem- 
non,  Antigone? 

A  wit  has  said  :  "  In  fiction  everything  is  true 
except  names  and  dates  ;  in  history  nothing  is  true 
except  names  and  dates."  I  am  not  at  the  moment 
concerned  to  defend  history  against  this  cynical 
assault.  I  quote  the  paradox  only  because  it  describes 
so  sharply  the  kind  of  truth  upon  which  all  greatness 
in  fiction  ultimately  depends.  The  novelist  may  take 
innumerable  liberties  with  his  subject  ;  he  may 
re-arrange  his  materials  in  fresh  and  startling  com- 
binations ;  he  may  invent  outright  ;  but  we  insist  that 
he  shall  still  be  true  to  ideal  probability  and  the 
great  elemental  facts  and  forces  of  life.  If  at  this 
point  his  work  proves  to  be  faulty,  without  hesitation 
we  adjudge  it  unsound. 

It  will    be   seen  that   this   does   not  in    the    least 

tend  to  check  the  free  play  of  the  imagination 

Realism, 
in  fiction.     We  have  heard  more  than  enough 

in  recent  years  of  realism  in  the  novel,  and  advocates 
of  this  realism  have  told  us  with  wearisome  iteration 
that  the  one  and  only  business  of  the  novelist  who 
takes  his  art  seriously  is  to  go  direct  to  actual  life  and 
reproduce  what  he  finds  there  with  photographic 
fidelity.  Now,  in  common  practice  this  doctrine  of 
realism  is  often  shamefully  abused.  Sometimes  it 
is  made  to  justify  detailed  pictures  of  the  sordid,  base, 
and  ugly — pictures  which,  while  they  may  be  pain- 
fully accurate  in  their  presentation  of  selected  particulars, 
are  so  completely  out  of  perspective  that  they  are 
anything  but  true  to  life  at  large.  Sometimes  it 
is   employed   to   dignify  the   much-ado-about-nothing 


222  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

of  a  certain  class  of  writers  whose  chief  concern  seems 
to  be  the  elaboration  of  the  trivial  and  the  common- 
place, and  who  offer  us  little  but  cross-sections  of  life 
as  seen  through  a  powerful  microscope.  But  even 
when  not  so  abused  in  one  or  other  of  these  two 
ways,  the  theory  of  realism  as  generally  understood — 
that  the  novelist  should  never  venture  beyond  actual 
fact — is  to  be  rejected  because  it  involves  in  another 
form  the  old  confusion  between  scientific  and  poetic 
truth.  Art  cannot  without  self-destruction  adopt  the 
aims  and  borrow  the  methods  of  science.  "  The  artist's 
work,"  as  Goethe  admirably  says,  "  is  real  in  so  far  as 
it  is  always  true ;  ideal,  in  that  it  is  never  actual." 

Bearing  this  principle  in  mind,  we  shall  cease  to 
ReaUsm  ^^  greatly  disturbed  by  the  loud  quarrel 
and  of  the  rival  schools  of  novelists  and  critics 

omance.  ^^^^  realism  and  romance.  We  shall  see 
that,  properly  understood,  both  are  justified,  since 
both  spring  from  fundamental  instincts :  the  source 
of  the  one  being  our  delight  in  seeing  the  near 
and  familiar  artistically  rendered  ;  of  the  other,  our 
pleasure  in  the  remote  and  unfamiliar.  We  shall 
see  too  that  while  each  has  its  justification,  each  has 
likewise  its  conditions.  Realism  must  be  kept  within 
the  sphere  of  art  by  the  presence  of  the  ideal  element. 
Romance  must  be  saved  from  extravagance  by  the 
presence  of  poetic  truth.^ 

^  Compare  Coleridge's  statement  of  the  two-fold  aim  of  the  Lyrical 
Ballads: — on  the  one  hand,  "to  give  the  charm  of  novelty  to  things  of 
every  day,"  by  touching  them  with  the  "modifying  colours  of 
imagination "  ;  on  the  other  hand,  to  give  substantial  interest  to 
supernatural  incidents  and  agents  "  by  the  dramatic  truth  of  such  emotions, 
as  would  naturally  accompany  such  situations,  supposing  them  real" 
{^Biographia  Literaria,  chap,  xiv.) 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICriON  223 

In  dealing  with  the  question  of  truth  in  fiction 
I  have  to  some  extent  anticipated  the  Morality- 
consideration  of  the  closely-allied  question  ia^'iction. 
of  morality.  The  ethical  element,  too,  has  to  be 
interpreted  broadly ;  but  so  interpreted,  it  has  to  be 
emphasised  to  the  full.  The  common  distrust  of 
so-called  "  novels  with  a  purpose " — by  which  is 
properly  meant,  novels  written  specifically  to  make 
out  a  case  or  to  prove  a  set  thesis — is  well  grounded  ; 
for,  though  there  are  exceptions,  the  attempt  to  do 
two  things  at  once — to  write  a  good  story  and  at 
the  same  time  to  produce  a  sermon  on  a  stated  text, 
an  essay  in  philosophy,  or  a  political  pamphlet — has 
seldom  ended  in  anything  but  failure.  But  to  con- 
fuse specific  purpose  with  general  purpose — direct 
didacticism  with  large  moral  meaning — is  to  make 
a  serious  mistake.  I  have  said  that  a  novelist's  chief 
concern  must  always  be  with  the  concrete  facts  of 
life,  and  in  doing  this,  I  assumed  that  he  may  deal 
with  concrete  facts  without  troubling  himself  in  the 
least  about  their  moral  bearings.  Such  assumption 
was  made  for  the  sake  of  the  argument.  It  has  now 
to  be  added  that,  while  theorists  of  a  certain  school 
may  say  what  they  like  about  the  moral  indifference 
of  fiction,  it  remains  none  the  less  true  that  nearly 
all  the  really  great  novelists  of  the  world  have  been 
declared  moralists,  and  have  troubled  themselves 
a  great  deal  about  the  moral  bearings  of  the  concrete 
facts  presented  by  them.  A  general  moral  philosophy 
is,  therefore,  almost  always  embodied  in  their  work 
as  a  more  or  less  distinctly  avowed  part  of  their 
plan.  But  the  conditions  of  success  in  the  carrying 
out  of  such  moral  purpose  under  the  forms  of  fiction 


224  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

and  with  due  regard  to  the  demands  of  art,  must 
be  clearly  recognised.  The  ethics  must  be  wrought 
into  the  texture  of  the  story  ;  the  philosophy  must  be 
held  in  solution  ;  the  novelist  must  never  for  a  moment 
be  lost  in  the  propagandist  or  preacher.  It  is  therefore 
less  in  its  directly  inculcated  lessons  than  in  its  whole 
interpretation  of  life,  thought,  character,  and  action, 
and  its  occasional  illuminative  commentary  upon  these, 
that  the  fundamental  morality  of  a  novel  has  habitually 
to  be  sought.  Even  its  plot,  with  its  perhaps  quite 
arbitrary  scheme  of  poetic  justice,  may  have  little  to 
do  with  its  true  philosophy.  For  example,  at  the 
end  of  The  Vicar  of  Wakefield,  Goldsmith  restores 
his  long-suffering  hero  to  earthly  prosperity  and 
happiness,  and  thus  exhibits  "  virtue  rewarded "  in 
the  most  orthodox  fashion.  He  does  this,  however, 
by  means  so  desperate  that,  it  is  sometimes  urged, 
the  moral  value  of  the  book  is  destroyed.  But  on 
further  consideration  it  will  be  found  that  the  happy 
ending  is  only  a  weak  concession  to  the  taste  of 
the  average  novel-reader  of  the  time  ;  it  was  not  an 
essential  part  of  Goldsmith's  ethical  design.  Where 
then  is  the  real  moral  of  the  tale?  As  the  author 
himself  suggests  in  the  heading  of  the  twenty-eighth 
chapter,  it  lies  in  the  beautiful  and  sympathetic 
portrayal  of  simple  courage,  piety,  and  faith  in  God 
under  stress  of  accumulated  afflictions.  This,  and 
not  the  conventional  and  hopelessly  unconvincing 
conclusion,  "  shows  Goldsmith,"  as  Prof  Walter 
Raleigh  has  well  remarked,  "  high  among  the  moralists 
of  the  century."  In  our  estimate  of  the  moral 
philosophy  given  or  implied  in  any  novel,  we  have 
therefore    to    consider    chiefly    the    impression    made 


THE  STUDY  OF  PROSE  FICTION  225 

upon  us  by  the  spirit  and  temper  of  the  work  as  a 
whole. 

That  we  have  a  perfect  right  to  include  the  problem 
of  moral  value  in  our  final  judgment  upon 
any   work    of   fiction — that,    until  this   pro-   Responsi- 
blem    is   settled,   our   judgment    remains   in  i>iiitiesof 
c  \  '  14.-  '^-  '       Fiction, 

fact  incomplete — is  a  proposition  concerning 

which  I  personally  do  not  entertain  the  slightest 
doubt.  Discussing  poetry  as  a  criticism  of  life,  John 
Addington  Symonds  wrote :  "  If  one  thing  is  proved 
with  certainty  by  the  whole  history  of  literature  down 
to  our  own  time,  it  is  that  the  self- preservative 
instinct  of  humanity  rejects  such  art  as  does  not 
contribute  to  its  intellectual  nutrition  and  moral 
sustenance.  It  cannot  afford  to  continue  long  in 
contact  with  ideas  that  run  counter  to  the  principles 
of  its  own  progress.  All  art  to  be  truly  great,  must 
be  moralised — must  be  in  harmony  with  those  princi- 
ples of  conduct,  that  tone  of  feeling,  which  it  is  the 
self-preservative  instinct  of  civilised  humanity  to 
strengthen.  This  does  not  mean  that  the  artist 
should  be  consciously  didactic  or  obtrusively  ethical. 
The  objects  of  ethics  and  art  are  distinct.  The  one 
analyses  and  instructs ;  the  other  embodies  and 
delights.  But  since  all  the  arts  give  form  to  thought 
and  feeling,  it  follows  that  the  greatest  art  is  that 
which  includes  in  its  synthesis  the  fullest  complex  of 
thoughts  and  feelings.  The  more  complete  the  poet's 
grasp  of  human  nature  as  a  whole,  the  more  complete 
his  presentation  of  life  in  organised  complexity,  the 
greater  he  will  be.  Now,  the  whole  struggle  of  the 
human  race  from  barbarism  to  civilisation  is  one 
continuous  effort  to  maintain  and  extend   its   moral 


I 


226  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

dignity.  It  is  by  the  conservation  and  alimentation 
of  moral  qualities  that  we  advance.  The  organisation 
of  all  our  faculties  into  a  perfect  whole  is  moral 
harmony.  Therefore  artists  who  aspire  to  greatness 
can  neither  be  adverse  nor  indifferent  to  ethics." 

The  application  of  these  admirable  remarks  to  the 
special  question  of  prose  fiction  will  be  evident.  In 
respect  of  the  novel,  as  of  other  kinds  of  imaginative 
literature,  it  is  often  said  that  art  as  art  has  nothing 
to  do  with  morality.  The  reply  is,  that  in  the  sense 
in  which  morality  is  understood  by  Mr  Symonds — 
in  the  sense  in  which  the  word  has  been  employed 
throughout  the  present  discussion — art  is  vitally 
connected  with  morality.  Art  grows  out  of  life  ;  it  is 
fed  by  life  ;  it  re-acts  upon  life.  This  being  so,  it  cannot 
disregard  its  responsibilities  to  life.  It  is  therefore  to 
the  last  degree  absurd  to  talk  of  the  artist,  whatever 
his  line  of  work,  as  if  he  stood  without  the  field  of 
ethics.  Certainly,  we  cannot  thus  speak  of  the 
novelist.  As  he  deals  with  life,  he  must  deal  with 
the  moral  facts  and  issues  everywhere  involved  in  life  ; 
and  it  is  upon  his  moral  power  and  insight  and  upon 
the  whole  spirit  and  tendency  of  his  philosophy,  that 
the  real  greatness  of  his  work  very  largely  depends. 


CHAPTER   V 

THE    STUDY    OF    THE    DRAMA 

I 

AT  the  opening  of  the  last  chapter  it  was 
premised  that,  as  the  novel  and  the  drama 
are  compounded  of  the  same  elements,  a 
great  deal  of  what  would  be  said  about  the  former 
would  be  found  equally  applicable  to  the  ^j^^  Drama 
latter.  We  are  now  in  a  position  to  realise  and  the 
the  force  of  this  statement.  The  general  °^® ' 
principles  of  criticism  which  we  have  laid  down  for 
the  study  of  plot,  characterisation,  dialogue,  local  and 
temporal  setting,  and  interpretation  of  life,  in  prose 
fiction,  hold  good,  for  the  most  part,  as  will  be  seen, 
in  respect  of  the  same  constituents  in  a  play.  In 
taking  up  the  study  of  the  drama,  therefore,  we  shall 
discover  that  the  ground  is  already  broken,  and  that 
many  questions,  especially  questions  of  valuation, 
have  been  answered  by  anticipation.  But  it  was 
further  pointed  out  that,  though  their  elements  are 
identical,  the  novelist  and  the  dramatist  work  under 
very  dissimilar  conditions,  and  for  this  reason  have  to 
manipulate  their  material  in  dissimilar  ways.  Hence 
the  immense  difference  between  novel  and  play  in 
everything  that  pertains  to  technique.     This  difference 

is   the   starting-point  of  our  present  inquiry.     Other 

227 


228  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

matters  will  be  dealt  with  later,  which,  though  involved 
in  the  analysis  of  the  novel  no  less  than  in  that  of 
the  play,  have  been  held  over  till  now  because  they 
can  be  more  easily  considered  in  this  part  of  our  study. 
But  our  first  business  will  be  with  some  of  the 
elementary  characteristics  of  the  drama,  as — in  the 
phrase  already  used — a  specific  form  of  literary  art. 

It  is  important  at  the  outset  to  understand  that 
what  we  call  the  principles  of  dramatic  construction 
and  the  laws  of  dramatic  technique  arise  out  of  and 
are  imposed  by  the  requirements,  which,  owing  to  the 
very  circumstances  of  its  existence,  the  drama  is 
compelled  to  meet.  The  ancient  epic  was  composed 
for  recitation ;  the  modern  novel  is  written  to  be 
read  ;  the  drama  is  designed  for  representation  by 
actors  who  impersonate  the  characters  of  its  story, 
and  among  whom  the  narrative  and  the  dialogue  are 
distributed.  While,  then,  the  epic  and  the  novel 
relate  and  report,  the  drama  imitates  by  action  and 
speech ;  and  it  is  by  reference  to  the  fundamental 
necessities  entailed  by  such  imitation  that  the  structural 
features  of  the  drama  have  to  be  examined  and 
explained.  Because  it  helps  us  to  keep  this  point 
clearly  in  view — because  it  serves  to  remind  us  that 
the  literary  art  of  the  drama  is  organically  bound  up 
with  its  histrionic  conditions — there  is  much  to  be 
said  in  favour  of  the  good  old  name  for  drama — 
stage- play. 

It  may  of  course  be  assumed  that  the  essential 
The  Drama  ^^i^fe^^nce  in  technique  between  the  novel 
as  "Stage- and    the   drama  is  commonly  recognised  in 

^*  theory    by   every   reader   of  the  one  or  the 

other.     But  its  practical   bearings  for  the  student   of 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  229 

literature  are,  I  believe,  very  seldom  appreciated  to 
the  full,  and  to  these,  therefore,  some  attention  should 
be  given. 

The  novel  is  self-contained ;  that  is,  it  provides 
within  its  own  compass  everything  that  the  writer 
deemed  necessary  for  the  comprehension  and  enjoy- 
ment of  his  work.  The  drama,  on  the  other  hand, 
when  it  reaches  us  in  the  form  of  print,  and  when  we 
read  it  as  literature,  in  the  same  way  as  we  read  a 
novel,  is  not  in  this  sense  self-contained.  It  implies 
everywhere  the  co-operation  of  elements  outside 
itself,  and  for  the  moment  these  elements  are  lacking. 
What  we  read  is,  in  fact,  little  more  than  a  bare 
outline  which  the  playwright  intended  to  be  filled  in 
by  the  art  of  the  actor  and  the  "  business "  of  the 
boards — a  literary  basis  for  that  stage-representation 
upon  which  he  calculated  for  the  full  execution  of  his 
design.  In  the  mere  perusal  of  a  play,  therefore,  we 
labour  under  certain  drawbacks  and  difficulties,  for 
much  of  its  effect  is  likely  to  be  lost  upon  us  for  want 
of  those  continual  appeals  to  the  imagination,  those 
descriptions,  explanations,  and  personal  commentaries, 
which  in  a  novel  help  us  to  visualise  scenes,  understand 
people,  estimate  motives,  grasp  the  ethical  import  of 
actions.  For  this  reason,  the  comprehension  and 
enjoyment  of  a  play  as  a  piece  of  literature  must 
always  make  immeasurably  greater  demands  upon  us 
than  the  comprehension  and  enjoyment  of  a  novel. 
We  have  to  supply  for  ourselves  the  external  conditions 
from  which  it  derives  much  of  its  life,  and  the  whole 
machinery  of  actual  performance  ;  in  countless  cases 
of  detail,  where,  had  we  been  spectators,  we  should 
have  relied    upon    the    "  reading "    of   the    actor,    we 


230  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

must  as  students  have  recourse  to  our  own  powers  of 
apprehension  and  interpretation  ;  our  imagination 
must  be  so  alert  that  every  scene  may  be  conceived 
as  if  it  were  passing  before  us  in  action.  In  ordinary 
practice — and  particularly  in  our  study  of  Shakespeare, 
whose  works  we  persist  in  treating  as  "  pure " 
literature,  and  rarely  regard  in  their  primary  qualities 
as  plays  written  expressly  for  the  stage — we  are  too  apt 
to  neglect  these  simple  but  far-reaching  considerations. 
It  is  worth  while,  therefore,  to  insist  that  in  our  study 
of  any  drama  we  should  do  our  utmost  to  recreate  its 
proper  theatrical  circumstances  and  surroundings,  and 
thus  to  make  our  private  reading  of  it  so  far  as  possible 
an  adequate  substitute  for  public  performance.^ 

Nor  is  it  only  the  general  conditions  of  stage- 
Depend-  representation  which  thus  demand  attention, 
ence  of  the  We  have  also  to  investigate  the  special 
stage  conditions    which    at    different     times    have 

Conditions,  affected  the  methods  of  the  dramatist,  and 
given  a  certain  form  and  tendency  to  his  art. 

^  In  the  printing  of  modern  plays  provision  is  now  frequently  made  for 
the  needs  of  the  mere  reader  by  the  introduction  of  a  great  deal  of 
explanatory  material.  In  Ibsen's  dramas,  for  example,  the  setting  of 
each  scene  is  almost  invariably  given  in  detail ;  often  the  appearance, 
bearings,  tones,  gestures,  by-play  of  the  characters  are  described ;  and 
much  of  the  stage  '*  business  "  is  indicated.  With  such  '*  extra-dramatic  " 
aids  we  may  read  a  play  very  much  as  we  read  a  novel,  to  vi'hicb,  indeed, 
as  a  piece  of  literature,  it  is  thus  made  to  approximate.  Had  such  aids 
been  furnished  by  the  editors  of  the  First  Folio,  our  appreciation  of  the 
dramatic  life  and  movement  of  many  of  Shakespeare's  scenes  would  have 
been  much  more  vivid  than  it  commonly  is.  If  the  student  will  turn  for 
himself  to  the  interpretative  notes  which  the  great  American  actor, 
Edwin  Booth,  contributed  to  Furness's  Variorum  edition  of  Othello^  he 
will  realise  at  once  the  extent  to  which  in  our  ordinary  reading  of 
Shakespeare  we  miss  the  wealth  of  detail  which  gives  significance  to 
character  and  situation  when  one  of  his  plays  is  put  on  the  stage. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  231 

Thus,  it    is    impossible  either    to    understand    the 

structural   peculiarities  or  to    appreciate  the 

rr  /.    ^       1  1  .1  Illustra- 

aesthetic    effect    of   Greek     tragedy    without    tion: 

some  knowledge  of  the  economy  of  the  Attic   ^^®®^ 

theatre.      Take,  for    instance,    the  enormous 

size    of   the   audiences,    which    commonly    numbered 

upward  of  20,000  ;  ^  the  shallowness  of  the  platform, 

or  "speaking    place,"  to   which  the  regular  dialogue 

and  action  were  confined  ;  and  the  heavy  conventional 

costume    of   the  actors,  who  were   "  made  up "  with 

padding  and   the    thick-soled,  high-heeled  cothurnus, 

or  buskin,   to  appear  of  heroic   proportions,  and  who 

always  wore  masks  representing  "  a  set  of  features  much 

larger  than  those  of  any  ordinary  man."  ^     Now  these 

three  facts,  taken  together,  go  far  to  explain  various 

outstanding    principles     of    the    ancient    drama,    and 

especially  its  want  of  anything  approaching  the  free 

and    rapid   action,    the   well-marked    individuality    of 

character,  and  the  realistic  quality,  with  which  we  are 

familiar  in    modern  plays.     The    shallowness    of  the 

"  speaking  place  "  prevented  mass-scenes  and  elaborate 

stage     pictures     requiring     depth     and    perspective ; 

the    arrangement    of    the     chief    persons     and    their 

retinues  being  that  of  a  processional  bas-relief     The 

distance  of  the  performers  from  the  spectators   made 

by-play  and   detailed    gesture  impossible.     As  rapid 

utterance,  low  tones,  and  changing    inflections  would 

have     been     lost     in    an    immense    open-air    theatre, 

the  language  employed  was  of  the  rhetorical,  not  of 

1  According  to  recent  calculations,  the  great  theatre  of  Dionysus  at 
Athens  accommodated  about  17,000  spectators.  Plato,  in  his  Symposium, 
speaks  of  more  than  30,000  being  present  on  one  occasion  ;  but  this  is 
now  regarded  as  an  exaggeration.     See  Haigh's  Ai//c  Theatre,  p.  lOO. 

2  J.  W.  Donaldson,  The  Theatre  of  the  Greeks,  p.  248. 


232  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

the  conversational,  kind — of  the  kind  adapted  to 
recitative  or  declamation,  which  accounts  for  "  the 
extreme  stiffness  and  formality  which  distinguishes  the 
tragic  dialogue  of  the  Greeks  from  that  dexterous  and 
varied  play  of  verbal  interchange  which  delights  us  so 
much  in  Shakespeare  and  other  masters  of  English 
tragedy."^  The  costume  of  the  actors  compelled 
them  to  move  with  a  measured  and  stately  gait,  to 
adopt  "  abrupt  and  angular "  gesticulations,^  and  to 
avoid  all  vigorous  activity  ;  while  the  use  of  the  mask 
not  only  "  precluded  all  attempts  at  varied  expres- 
sion," ^  but  necessarily  tended  also  to  stereotype  the 
passions  portrayed,  to  prevent  any  rapid  changes  of 
emotion,  and  to  give  to  the  persons  represented  a 
generic  or  typical  rather  than  an  individual  character.* 
"  The  effect  produced  by  the  unchangeable  expression 
of  the  actor's  countenance,"  writes  Miiller,  "  unnatural 
as  it  seems  to  us,  was  of  less  consequence  in  the 
ancient  tragedy,  because  the  principal  characters 
appeared  throughout  the  piece  under  the  influence 
of  the  same  feelings  by  which  they  were  actuated 
at  the  commencement.  Thus  we  may  easily 
Imagme  an  Orestes  in  ^schylus,  an  Ajax  in 
Sophocles,  or  a  Medea  in  Euripides,  retaining  the  same 
expression  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  a  play, 
although  it  may  be  impossible  to  conceive  this  of  a 
Hamlet  or  a  Tasso."  ^  All  these  facts  suffice  to  show 
why  the  conditions  of   representation  in    the    Greek 

^  J.  S.  Blackie,  Introduction  to  the  Lyrical  Dramas  of  AZschylus^  I.  p. 
xlvi. 

2  Donaldson,  op.  cit.,  p.  269.  ^  Ibid.y  p.  270. 

*  The  mask  could  indeed  be  changed  during  the  progress  of  the  play, 
but  not  of  course  while  the  actor  was  on  the  stage. 

^  History  of  Greek  Literature. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  233 

theatre  were  particularly  suitable  "  for  the  exhibition  of 
processions,  plastic  situations  and  groups,  and  for 
solemn  measured  declamation,  rather  than  deeds  of 
passion  and  violence  "  ;  why  "  single  combats,  battles, 
murders,  and  similar  scenes,  would  have  produced  a 
strange,  we  may  almost  say  a  ludicrous,  effect  on  the 
Athenian  stage";  and  why,  therefore,  "such  events  were 
invariably  related,  instead  of  being  enacted  in  presence 
of  the  audience."  ^  Some  other  points  of  interest  have 
been  admirably  dealt  with  by  Professor  Moulton. 
"  The  influence  on  Ancient  Tragedy  of  the  Theatre 
and  theatrical  representation  rests  mainly  on  the  fact 
that  Tragedy  never  ceased  to  be  a  solemn  religious 
and  national  festival,  celebrated  in  a  building  which 
was  regarded  as  the  temple  of  Dionysus,  whose  altar 
was  the  most  prominent  object  in  the  orchestra,  and 
in  the  presence  of  what  may  fairly  be  described  as  the 
whole  *  public '  of  Athens  and  Attica  .  .  .  One 
effect  flowing  from  the  religious  associations  of 
Tragedy  was  limitation  of  subject-matter,  which  was 
confined  to  the  sacred  myths,  progress  towards  real 
life  being  slow.  Surprise  as  a  dramatic  effect  was 
eliminated  where  all  knew  the  end  of  the  story.  On 
the  other  hand,  great  scope  was  given  for  irony — 
ignorance  of  the  sequel  on  the  part  of  the  personages 
represented  clashing  with  knowledge  of  it  on  the  part 
of  the  audience.2  .  .  .  But  the  general  influence  of 
representation  in  Ancient  Tragedy  may  be  best 
summed  up  in  the  word  *  conventionality.'  This  and 
the  antithetical  term,  *  realism,'  are  the  two  poles  of 
dramatic  effect,  all  acting  having  reference  to  both  and 

^Witzchel,  The  Athenian  Stage,  trans.  Paul,  p.  119. 
2  On  this  point,  see  further,  post^  §  v. 


2.34  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

varying  between  the  two  :  the  latter  aims  directly  at 
the  imitation  of  life,  conventionality  is  for  ever  falling 
into  recognised  positions  of  beauty.  Not  only  did 
the  ancient  drama  lean  to  the  conventional,  but  the 
conception  of  beauty  underlying  it  was  different  from 
the  spirited  movement  and  picturesque  situations  of 
the  modern  stage,  and  approached  nearer  to  the 
foremost  art  of  antiquity — statuary.  The  acting  of  an 
ancient  scene  is  best  regarded  as  a  passage  from  one 
piece  of  statuesque  grouping  to  another,  in  which  motion 
is  reduced  to  a  minimum  and  positions  of  rest  expanded 
to  a  maximum — a  view  which  accounts  for  the  great 
length  of  speeches  in  Greek  drama.  The  episodes  of 
Ancient  Tragedy  were  displays  of  animated  statuary, 
just  as  the  choral  odes  were  feats  of  expressive 
dancing."  ^ 

Apart  from  any  consideration  of  the  abstract 
aesthetic  principles  by  which  the  Greek  poets  were 
guided  in  their  work,  and  with  which  we  are  not  for 
the  moment  concerned,  we  can  now  understand  that 
many  of  the  most  marked  peculiarities  of  Attic 
tragedy — its  ideal  quality,  its  large  simplicity  of 
manner,  the  rhetorical  nature  of  its  dialogue,  its 
broadly  typical  handling  of  character,  its  want  of 
movement  and  action  —  were  direct  and  necessary 
results  of  those  special  conditions  of  public  perform- 
ance which  the  evolution  of  dramatic  art  in  Greece 
had  brought  in  its  train.  One  other  matter  may  just 
be  mentioned.  To  the  modern  reader  no  single 
feature  of  the  classic  drama  is  more  curious  than  the 
Chorus.  Into  the  question  of  the  origin  and  function 
of  this  essential  element  of  Attic  tragedy,  this  is  not 

^  The  Ancieni  Classical  Drama,  pp.  127-129, 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMi^  235 

the  occasion  to  enter  ;  reference  is  made  to  it  now 
only  that  we  may  note  its  influence  in  two  ways  upon 
dramatic  form  and  method.  In  the  first  place,  it  was 
the  prominence  of  the  Chorus,  with  its  elaborate  odes 
and  solemn  dancing,  which  gave  to  Greek  tragedy 
its  pre-eminently  lyrical  and  operatic  character.^ 
Secondly,  since  "the  action  of  the  drama  was  carried 
on  from  beginning  to  end  in  presence  of  the  Chorus, 
a  band  of  witnesses,  always  the  same,  and  remaining 
in  the  same  place,  the  poet  .  .  .  had  scarcely  any 
choice  but  to  limit  the  scene  to  one  spot  and  the  time 
to  one  day  "  ;  ^  and  thus  the  so-called  unities  of  place 
and  time  became  accepted  principles  of  dramatic 
construction.^ 

Another  illustration,  and  one  of  capital  interest  to 
the  student  of  the  English  drama,  will  serve  ^^^1^^^ 
to  make  clear  in  a  somewhat  different  way  niustra- 
the  immediate  dependence  of  a  playwright's  g^ake-""^* 
technique  upon  the  histrionic    methods  and  spearean 
resources    of   his    time.      When,  ceasing   to    ^^^^' 
regard    Shakespeare's   plays    merely  as   literature,  we 
think    of   them   in    their    connection   with    the    prin- 
ciples and  requirements  of  stage  effect,  it  is  the  stage 
as    we    know    it    to-day  that  we    almost    invariably 
have   in    mind.      Now   a   comparison   of  any   modern 
acting  version  of  one  of  these  plays  with  the  original 

^  The  "  proper  designation "  of  Hellenic  tragedy,  says  Prof.  Blackie, 
"is  sacred  opera,  and  not  tragedy  in  the  modern  sense  of  the  word," 
Op.  cit.  I.  p.  xlvi. 

2  Witzchel,  op.  cit.,  p.  43. 

'  The  fact  that  a  change  of  scene  is  occasionally  found  in  extant 
tragedies  (as  in  the  Eumenides  of  .(Eschylus  and  the  Aj'ax  of  Sophocles) 
seems  to  prove  that  the  unity  ot  place  was  adhered  to  rather  as  a  matter 
of  practical  convenience  than  on  account  of  any  preconceived  theory. 


236  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

text  will  reveal  many  points  of  difference  ;  it  will  be 
found  that  numerous  passages  and  even  whole  scenes 
are  cut  out  entirely  ;  that  scenes  which  Shakespeare 
separated  are  brought  together ;  that  the  order  of 
events  in  the  plot  is  sometimes  changed.  Often,  of 
course,  these  alterations  are  arbitrarily  made,  and, 
except  in  so  far  as  they  throw  a  curious  light  upon 
the  taste  of  this  or  that  manager  and  the  public  for 
which  he  caters,  they  are  therefore  without  significance. 
But  often,  on  the  other  hand,  as  analysis  will  show, 
they  carry  us  back  directly  to  the  fact  that  the  stage 
for  which  Shakespeare  wrote  was  in  various  funda- 
mental particulars  quite  unlike  our  own,  and  that 
many  characteristics  of  his  dramas  are  thus  to  be 
understood  only  when  they  are  studied  in  relation 
with  theatrical  conditions  which  have  long  since  ceased 
to  exist.  We  must  not  be  beguiled  by  the  fascination 
of  the  subject  into  any  general  discussion  of  the 
arrangements  of  the  Elizabethan  stage,  our  present 
task  being  merely  to  indicate  the  importance  of  these 
for  the  student  of  Shakespeare.  Confining  our  atten- 
tion to  a  couple  of  points  only,  let  us  therefore  simply 
note  the  way  in  which  his  work  was  affected  by  the 
lack  of  movable  scenery  and  the  absence  of  a  drop- 
curtain. 

In  connection  with  what  follows,  the  reader  is 
advised  to  study  carefully  the  pen-and-ink  sketch  of 
the  Swan  Theatre  reproduced  on  the  next  page.  This 
was  made  by  a  Dutchman,  one  Johannes  de  Witt, 
about  the  year  1596,  and  discovered  in  1888  by  a 
German  scholar,  Dr  Gaedertz,  in  the  Library  of  the 
University  of  Utrecht.  It  is,  of  course,  very  rough,  and 
in  sundry  details  it  does   not   altogether  correspond 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA 


237 


with    what    we    otherwise    know   or   infer   about   the 
Elizabethan  stage.     But  it  is  of  immense  interest  and 


\ 


value  as  our  only  contemporary  picture  of  the  interior 
of  a  playhouse  in  Shakespeare's  time. 

As  movable  scenery  was  then  unknown,  the  drama- 


238  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

tist  was  under  no  necessity  to  give,  scene  by  scene, 
a  definite  locality  to  his  action.  The  stage  on  which 
his  plays  were  performed — a  narrow  platform  run- 
ning out  into  the  auditorium — was  divided  into 
three  parts ;  of  which  the  first,  or  "  front  stage,"  was 
conventionally  employed  for  any  kind  of  open  space 
— street,  or  square,  or  field  ;  the  second,  or  "  back 
stage  "  (the  portion  behind  the  columns  in  De  Witt's 
drawing),  with  its  few  common  articles  of  furniture, 
was  similarly  accepted  as  representing  a  room  in  a 
palace,  a  council  chamber,  or  any  other  interior  ;  while 
the  third,  or  "  upper  stage,"  a  gallery  behind  this  inner 
stage  and  above  the  actors'  "  tiring  house  "  {mimorum 
cEdes\  was  used  for  any  elevated  spot, — the  walls  of  a 
castle  or  town,  for  example,  or  Brabantio's  window,  or 
Juliet's  gallery.^  Evidently,  this  simplicity  of  stage- 
setting  permitted  and  encouraged  a  freedom  and 
rapidity  in  the  movement  of  the  action  which  are 
rendered  practically  impossible  by  the  elaborate  and 
cumbersome  scenic  devices  of  the  modern  theatre. 
Just  because  there  was,  in  our  sense  of  the  term,  "  no 
change  of  scene  "  to  be  made,  it  could  be  made  with- 
out difficulty,  and  as  frequently  as  might  be  desired  ; 
for  as  soon  as  one  group  of  characters  went  off, 
another  group  could  enter,  and  a  fresh  scene  begin, 
even  though  the  spectators  were  supposed  to  be 
transported  in  imagination  into  a  different  place.^ 

1  In  our  sketch,  however,  this  balcony  seems  to  be  occupied  by 
spectators. 

2  Occasionally  the  scene  would  change  while  people  remained  on  the 
stage.  There  is  a  good  example  of  this  in  Act  II.  scene  iii.  of  Marlowe's 
Jew  of  Malta.  Barabas  announces  his  intention  of  going  to  the  market- 
place to  buy  a  slave.  Lodowick  says: — "And  Barabas,  I'll  bear  thee 
company."      Barabas  replies: — **  Come  then — here's  the  market-place. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  239 

Thus  the  lack  of  movable  scenery  on  the  Elizabethan 
boards  helps  us  at  once  to  explain  various  structural 
features  in  which  the  Shakespearean  drama  differs 
conspicuously  from  the  drama  of  recent  times.  Its 
complete  indifference  to  all  considerations  of  locality 
and  the  unity  of  place  ;  its  numerous  minors  scenes, 
which  break  up  the  plot  and  are  a  source  of  so  much 
perplexity  to  modern  managers  ;  its  frequent  recourse 
to  a  series  of  such  minor  scenes,  which  follow  one 
another  in  quick  succession,  and  over  which  the 
interest  of  the  action  is  scattered  in  a  way  which 
seems  singularly  unsatisfactory  to  us  who  are  ac- 
customed to  more  concentrated  effects  :  ^ — these,  and 
various  other  peculiarities  (such,  for  example,  as  the 
wealth  of  natural  description  often  to  be  found  in  the 
dialogue)  are  to  be  largely  accounted  for  by  reference 
to  this  one  fact  that  the  Elizabethan  stage  was  a  stage 
without  scenery. 

The  second  of  the  two  facts  above  mentioned — that 

What's  the  price  of  this  slave  ? "  In  the  interval  represented  by  the 
dash  in  the  text,  the  Jew  and  his  young  companion  took  a  walk  round  the 
stage,  and  this  brought  them  to  the  market.  The  Jew's  words  sufficed 
to  indicate  their  arrival. 

^  A  striking  example  of  the  use  of  a  series  of  short  scenes  where  a 
modern  playwright  would  naturally  have  massed  his  incidents  together, 
will  be  found  in  the  alternate  appearances  of  groups  of  Roman  and 
Volscian  soldiers  in  the  first  act  of  Coriolanus.  The  dispersion  of  interest 
over  a  number  of  minor  scenes  in  the  crisis  of  Antony  and  Cleopatra  has 
often  been  noted  as  a  grave  defect  in  the  construction  of  that  play.  Yet 
ii  must  be  remembered  that  owing  to  the  rapidity  with  which  they  could 
be  represented,  these  scenes  were  far  more  effective  on  Shakespeare's 
stage  than  they  can  ever  be  on  our  own.  Every  student  should  seize 
the  first  opportunity  of  witnessing  the  performance  of  one  of  Shakespeare's 
dramas  as  given  from  time  to  time,  with  a  careful  reproduction  of  the 
original  conditions,  by  the  Elizabethan  Stage  Society.  From  such  a 
performance  he  may  learn  more  about  Shakespeare's  technique  than  from 
the  study  of  many  volumes  of  criticism. 


240  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

the  Elizabethan  stage  was  likewise  a  stage  without  a 
drop-curtain  ^ — had  also  a  marked,  though  perhaps 
a  less  obvious,  influence  on  Shakespeare's  dramatic 
methods.  As  in  the  absence  of  such  curtain  there 
was  no  way  of  closing  a  scene  except  by  taking  all 
the  characters  off  in  full  view  of  the  spectators,  pro- 
vision for  a  general  clearance  had  always  to  be  made  ; 
and  it  had  to  be  made  in  the  case  not  only  of  the 
living  but  also  of  the  dead.  This  explains  the  specific 
commands  which  are  frequently  given  among  the 
scanty  stage  directions  of  the  original  text,  for  the 
carrying  away  of  the  bodies  of  those  who  had  been 
slain,  such  as  "  Exit  Hamlet  tugging  in  Polonius  "  ;  ^ 
and  the  orders  which  are  often  incorporated  in  the 
dialogue,  such  as  the  Prince  of  Verona's  "  Bear 
hence  this  body,"  ^  and  Cornwall's  "  throw  this  slave 
upon  the  dunghill."  *  But  this,  though  an  interesting, 
is  a  comparatively  trivial,  matter.  A  far  more  impor- 
tant result  of  the  absence  of  the  drop-curtain,  and  one 
which  shows  that  this  deficiency  profoundly  affected 
Shakespeare's  entire  structural  plan,  will  be  brought 
to  light  by  a  careful  examination  of  the  manner  in 
which  he  rounds  off  his  scenes  and  acts.  It  is  not  too 
much  to  say  that  the  skill  of  a  modern  playwright  is 
largely  exercised  in  the  contrivance  of  a  thoroughly 
effective  "  curtain  "  ;  a  scene  is  worked  up  to  its  most 

^  There  was  a  "traverse,"  or  draw-curtain  which  (though  there  is  no 
sign  of  it  in  our  sketch)  could  on  occasion  be  employed  to  separate  the 
back-stage  from  the  front.  This  had  many  uses,  which  in  various  ways 
affected  dramatic  construction.  But  into  these  details  we  cannot  now 
enter. 

^Hamlet,  III.  iv. 

^  Romeo  and  ft i lie i^   III.  I. 

^  King  Lear ^  III.  vii.  Compare  the  dying  king's  request  in  2  Henry 
TV.,  IV.  iv. — "  Bear  me  hence  into  some  other  chamber." 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  241 

thrilling  situation,  and  upon  this  it  closes  abruptly, 
the  incident  being  left  incomplete.  Shakespeare 
knows  nothing  of  this  device.  He  is  obliged  by  the 
very  necessities  of  the  case  to  carry  each  scene  to  its 
natural  conclusion  ;  and  the  consequence  is  that  he 
often  passes  beyond  the  note  of  highest  dramatic 
interest  in  a  situation  into  what  from  a  modern  play- 
wright's point  of  view  would  be  pronounced  an  anti- 
climax. His  general  method  is,  therefore,  as  one 
writer  on  the  subject  has  well  said,  "  peculiarly 
unsuited  to  the  act-drop.  Upon  one  of  Shake- 
speare's plays  the  curtain  falls  like  the  knife  of  a 
guillotine."  ^ 

We  thus  see,  without  going  further,  that  Shake- 
speare's work  is  not  only  essentially  theatrical,  in  the 
sense  that  it  was  written  with  an  eye  to  the  conditions 
of  performance  in  a  public  theatre,  but  also  that  it 
possesses  a  special  kind  of  theatrical  quality  which  can 
be  appreciated  only  when  it  is  examined  from  the 
historic  side.  Produced  to  meet  certain  conditions,  it 
was  everywhere  moulded  by  these  conditions.  The 
study  of  Shakespeare's  plays  must  therefore  include  a 
study  of  the  theatrical  methods  in  vogue  at  his  time. 


n 

The  foregoing  remarks  will  perhaps  suffice  to  open 
up  a  fruitful  line  of  investigation  for  the  student  who 
is  specially  interested  in  the  changing  technique  of  the 
drama  at  different  periods  of  its  development.  But 
as    considerations    of    space     prevent    us    from    here 

^  Lawrence,   Some    Characteristics    o]   the   Elizabethan-Stuart  Stage^ 
in  Englische  Studien,  xxxii.  36-51. 
Q 


242  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUKE 

pursuing  this  large  subject  into  further  details,  we 
will  at  once  pass  on  to  note  how,  with  little  reference 
to  local  and  temporary  influences,  and  therefore  in 
ways  that  are  fairly  uniform,  the  dramatist's  practice 
is  directly  affected  by  the  necessities  of  stage  repre- 
sentation in  regard,  first,  to  the  constitution  and 
management  of  his  plot,  and,  secondly,  to  the  treat- 
ment of  his  characters. 

In  the  constitution  of  his  plot,  it  is  obvious,  he 
Plot  in  the  labours  under  one  elementary  disadvantage 
Drama.  ^s  compared  with  his  fellow-craftsman  in  the 
field  of  prose  fiction.  The  novelist  enjoys  almost 
absolute  freedom  as  to  the  length  of  his  work,  and 
therefore  as  to  the  amount  of  material  that  may  go 
to  its  composition.  At  both  points  the  dramatist  is 
subject  to  severe  restrictions.  A  novel  is  not  designed 
to  be  read  through  at  a  single  sitting.  It  can  be  put 
down  and  taken  up  again  at  the  pleasure  or  conven- 
ience of  the  reader ;  its  perusal  may  extend  over  days 
and  weeks  ;  and  the  only  requirement  it  has  to  meet 
is,  that  its  interest  shall  be  so  sustained  as  to  prompt 
a  return  to  it  when  occasion  offers.^  A  play,  on  the 
other  hand,  is  intended,  in  Aristotle's  phrase,  for  "  a 
single  hearing  "  ;  and  as  the  physical  endurance  of  the 
spectator  is  limited,  and  as,  when  the   limit  is  once 

1  It  may,  however,  be  justly  contended  that  the  principle  of  limitation 
should  be  applied  even  to  the  novel,  which  should  never  be  so  long  that 
we  cannot  easily  grasp  it  as  a  whole,  or,  as  Aristotle  said  in  regard  to 
the  epic,  comprehend  the  beginning  and  end  in  a  single  view.  Such 
enormous  and  complex  works  as  Clarissa,  Monte  Crista,  The  Mysteries 
of  Paris,  Les  Misirables,  War  and  Peace,  and  most  of  the  novels  of 
Dickens  and  Thackeray,  may  thus  be  criticised  as  so  far  exceeding  the 
due  length  that  all  sense  of  wholeness  and  artistic  unity  is  destroyed  in 
the  mind  of  the  reader.  It  is  clear  that,  with  all  his  admiration  of 
Homer,  Aristotle  felt  that  the  Iliad  and  the  Odyssey  were  really  too  long. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  243 

reached,  even  the  most  engrossing  scenes  will  fail  to 
arrest  the  flagging  of  attention,  relative  brevity  is  a  first 
practical  law  of  dramatic  being.^  A  dramatist  then, 
to  begin  with,  is  compelled  to  work  within  a  much  more 
confined  space  than  the  novelist.  He  has  therefore 
to  compress  his  materials ;  to  eliminate  everything 
not  absolutely  essential  to  his  purpose ;  to  select  the 
most  important  incidents  and  situations,  and  concen- 
trate his  attention  upon  these.  Hence  the  significance 
of  Aristotle's  warning  to  the  playwright  that  he 
should  not  attempt  to  "  construct  a  tragedy  upon  an 
epic  plan  "  ;  meaning  by  "epic  plan"  a  "fable  composed 
of  many  fables ;  as  if  anyone,  for  instance,  should 
take  the  entire  fable  of  the  Iliad  for  the  subject  of  a 

^  Even  the  spectator's  power  of  maintaining  interest  seems,  however, 
to  have  varied  considerably  at  different  times.  As  Freytag  remarks, 
'*  we  read  with  astonishment  of  the  capacity  of  the  Athenians " — on 
whose  stage  a  number  of  dramas  were  enacted  in  succession — "to 
endure  for  almost  an  entire  day  the  greatest  and  most  thrilling  tragic 
effects  {Technique  of  the  Drama^  chap.  vi.).  Shakespeare  speaks  of 
"the  two  hours'  traffic  of  our  stage"  {Prologue  to  Romeo  mtd  Juliet \ 
cp.  the  *  *  two  short  hours  "  of  the  Prologue  to  Henry  VI IL ) ;  but  it  is 
very  clear  that  if  his  plays  were  produced  as  they  stand  in  our  texts, 
they  must  (even  allowing  for  the  great  rapidity  with  which  they  were 
performed)  have  often  exceeded,  and  in  some  cases  very  much  exceeded, 
the  limit  assigned.  Freytag  lays  it  down  as  a  general  rule  that  "a 
five-act  play  which,  after  its  arrangement  for  the  stage,  contains  an 
average  of  five  hundred  lines  to  the  act,  exceeds  the  allotted  time," 
and  that  ' '  not  more  than  two  thousand  lines  should  be  considered  the 
regular  length  of  a  stage  piece."  Shakespeare's  Macbeth  has  2108  lines, 
but  this  is  one  of  the  shortest  of  his  plays.  Othello  has  3317  lines, 
King  Lear^  3332  ;  while  Hamlet  with  3931  and  Antony  and  Cleopatra 
with  3991,  run  to  twice  the  proposed  bulk.  It  is  a  well-known,  and 
in  our  present  context  a  suggestive  fact,  that  plays  written  by  dramatists 
who  have  little  or  no  expert  training  in  theatrical  technique  have  nearly 
always  to  be  abridged  for  stage  representation.  Freytag  notes  that  it 
was  notoriously  difficult  for  Schiller  to  complete  a  play  within  the 
required  stage  time. 


244  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

tragedy."^  In  the  same  way,  it  is  easy  to  appreciate 
the  difference  between  the  expansive  plan  permitted 
by  the  conditions  of  prose  fiction,  and  the  condensed 
plan  demanded  by  the  drama,  and  to  understand  how 
much  excision  and  compression  are  required  in 
dramatising  a  novel  of  any  length  and  complexity. 
In  securing  brevity,  the  dramatist  is  greatly  helped, 
it  is  true,  by  the  secondary  arts  of  the  stage  ;  since 
much  that  the  novelist  has  to  explain  he  may  leave 
to  histrionic  interpretation,  while  stage  setting  practi- 
cally relieves  him  from  the  necessity  of  verbal  descrip- 
tion. Yet  the  problem  of  the  clear  and  effective 
disposition  of  his  material  within  the  narrow  limits 
he  is  forced  to  accept,  is  one  which  will  always  tax 
his  constructive  skill ;  and  it  is  to  this  aspect  of  his 
plot,  therefore,  that  attention  may  first  be  directed. 
Analysis  will  show  that,  unlike  the  novelist,  who 
generally  tells  his  tale  in  a  comprehensive  narrative, 
incorporating  all  the  necessary  details  as  they  arise, 
the  dramatist  commonly  reserves  for  full  treatment  a 
number  of  important  scenes,  providing  within  these 
scenes  the  links  of  the  story  which  are  required  to 
bind  them  together.  Yet  even  here  allowance  must 
be  made  for  the  differences  of  technique  which  have 
resulted  from  differences  in  the  conditions  of  stage 
representation.  There  is  far  more  massing  of  incident 
and  concentration  of  interest  upon  a  few  outstanding 

^  Poetics^  II.  XX.  But  Aristotle  elsewhere  contends  that  the  structural 
superiority  of  the  Homeric  poems  to  other  epics  lies  in  their  unity  ; 
for  which  reason,  as  he  points  out,  the  Iliad  and  the  Odyssey  would  not 
furnish  material  for  more  than  one,  or  at  most  two  tragedies  each,  while 
"more  than  eight"  dramas  had  been  made  out  of  a  chronicle-poem 
called  TJm  Little  Iliad,  It  is  evident  that  several  plays  might  be  made, 
e.^.y  out  of  Bleak  House. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  245 

points  in  the  works  of  a  skilled  modern  playwright  than 
in  our  romantic  drama.  Compared  with  the  method 
of  Sardou,  or  Ibsen,  or  Sudermann,  Shakespeare's  is 
much  more  nearly  allied  to  the  method  of  the  epic 
poet  or  romance  writer,  since,  like  them,  he  habitually 
follows  his  plot  through  a  succession  of  minor  scenes 
in  which  he  directly  exhibits  transitional  movements 
which  the  modern  playwright  would  give  in  the  form 
of  explanatory  narrative.  The  peculiar  freedom  of 
the  stage  for  which  he  wrote,  as  we  have  already 
observed,  largely  accounts  for  this  practice.  Thus, 
when  Shakespeare  appropriate^  some  story  in  prose 
or  verse  (like  Brooke's  Romeus  and  Juliet,  Lodge's 
Rosalynde^  or  Greene's  Pandosto\  and  turns  it  into  a 
play,  he  does  so  without  undertaking  that  entire 
recasting  of  its  materials  which  would  now  be  deemed 
necessary.  In  one  conspicuous  case — that  of  The 
Winter's  Tale — he  produces  indeed  what  is  rather  a 
dramatised  romance  than  a  drama.  One  striking 
illustration  of  the  general  looseness  of  texture  which 
was  permitted  by  the  conditions  of  the  Elizabethan 
stage  and  encouraged  by  the  spirit  of  the  time,  is 
provided  by  the  Chronicle-play,  which  the  criticism  of 
our  own  day  is  bound  to  regard,  so  far  as  formal 
structure  is  concerned,  as  an  unsatisfactory  compromise 
between  the  claims  of  history  and  those  of  dramatic 
art. 

The  points  which  have  been  here  touched  upon 
belong,  of  course,  to  the  mere  rudiments  of  dramatic 
theory,  and  it  is  quite  unnecessary  to  consume  space 
in  their  elaboration.  Some  important  questions  con- 
nected with  the  laws  and  principles  of  dramatic 
construction  will  be  considered  later. 


246  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 


III 

Great,  however,  as  are  the  structural  differences 
between  drama  and  novel  in  the  management  of 
plot,  they  are  even  greater  in  the  exposition  of 
character. 

It  is  sometimes  carelessly  assumed  that,  since  the 
Character-  business  of  the  stage  is  so  largely  and  so 
isationin  necessarily  with  action,  characterisation  in  a 
e  rama.  ^^^^  j^  really  of  minor  importance.  On  this 
assumption,  indeed,  maay  plays  are  still  written.  It 
is  none  the  less  so  far  a  mistake  that  everything  that 
has  been  said  about  the  supremacy  of  the  character- 
element  in  prose  fiction  is  equally  applicable  to  the 
drama.  "  I  suppose,"  says  Mr  Henry  Arthur  Jones, 
"  that  the  first  demand  of  an  average  theatrical  audience 
to  its  author  will  always  be  the  same  as  the  child's — 
Tell  me  a  story."  And  then,  after  explaining  that 
he  has  no  desire  to  belittle  the  value  of  a  story  as 
such,  Mr  Jones  continues  :  "  Story  and  incident  and 
situation  in  theatrical  work  are,  unless  related  to 
character,  comparatively  childish  and  unintellectual. 
They  should  indeed  be  only  another  phase  of  the 
development  of  character.  ...  A  mere  story,  a  mere 
succession  of  incidents,  if  these  do  not  embody  and 
display  character  and  human  nature,  only  give  you 
something  in  raw  melodrama  pretty  much  equivalent 
to  the  adventures  of  our  old  friend,  Mr  Richard 
Turpin."  ^  This  is  sound  doctrine.  Characterisation 
is  the  really  fundamental  and  lasting  element  in  the 
greatness  of  any  dramatic  work.     We  have  only  to 

^  The  Renascence  of  the  English  Drama,  p.  232. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  247 

turn  to  Shakespeare  to  find  a  telling  illustration.  No 
one  would  contend  that  his  plays  owe  their  permanent 
place  in  literature  to  the  quality  of  his  plots.  The 
interest  which  keeps  them  alive  is  the  interest  of  the 
men  and  women  in  them.  As  I  have  elsewhere  said, 
"  it  is  only  because  the  core  of  Macbeth  is  not  the 
murders  which  Macbeth  commits,  but  the  character  of 
Macbeth  himself,  that  Macbeth  is  a  stupendous  tragedy 
and  not  a  mere  farrago  of  sensational  horrors.  It  is 
only  because  the  core  of  The  Merchant  of  Venice  is 
not  the  things  which  are  done,  but  the  people  who  do 
them,  that  our  play  is  a  great  comedy,  and  not  a  mere 
tissue  of  childish  absurdities."  ^  Considered  simply  on 
the  side  of  its  plot,  Hamlet  has  to  be  classed  with 
those  numerous  "  tragedies  of  blood,"  or  "  revenge 
plays,"  which,  with  their  crude  violence  and  monstrous 
passions,  made  a  stirring  appeal  to  the  strong  nerves 
of  the  Elizabethan  public.  But  out  of  this  unpromising 
material  Shakespeare  has  made  a  drama  of  inexhaust- 
ible interest ;  and  he  has  done  this  by  the  development 
of  what  in  the  language  of  our  time  we  call  the 
psychological  element.  And  it  is,  in  the  last  analysis, 
upon  this  psychological  element  that  the  permanent 
vitality  of  any  play  depends. 

As  in  the  handling  of  plot,  so  again  in  characterisa- 
tion   a    first    condition    of   dramatic    art    is  ,    ^ 
1        .  T       1  r  r  ,  ,  .    Its  Con- 

brevity.      In  defence  of  an  over-long  novel  it  ditions : 

is  sometimes   urged    that    the  exposition   of  ^^®'^*^  ^\ 
motive,  the  full  portrayal  of  character,  demand 
and  justify  prolixity.     But  the  dramatist  has  to  deal 
with  motive  and  character  within  the  narrowly  circum- 

^  Introduction    to    The    Merchant   of    Venice^    in     The    Elizabethan 
Shakespearey  p.  xxiii. 


248  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUEE 

scribed  area  of  a  comparatively  few  scenes,  in  which 
at  the  same  time  (since  the  drama  affords  little 
scope  for  characterisation  divorced  from  action)  he 
has  to  be  more  or  less  concerned  with  the  progress 
of  his  story.  Until  their  attention  has  been  speci- 
ally directed  to  it,  few  readers  realise  the  full 
meaning  of  this  fact.  It  may  be  well,  therefore,  to 
emphasise  its  significance  by  taking  a  single  illustra- 
tion. Macbeth  is  often  referred  to  as  a  wonderful 
example  of  the  condensed  treatment  of  action.  It 
is  even  more  remarkable  as  an  example  of  the  con- 
densed treatment  of  character.  It  is  trite  to  say  that 
Macbeth  and  his  wife  are  among  the  most  vital  and 
permanently  interesting  figures  in  literature ;  the  end- 
less critical  discussions  which  have  gone  on  about 
them  testify  to  the  fact  that  Shakespeare  has  endowed 
them  with  the  reality  and  the  mystery  of  life.  We 
may  well  be  surprised,  therefore,  to  discover  by  direct 
investigation  how  little  there  is  of  them,  and  how  few 
are  the  master-strokes  with  which  they  are  drawn.  If 
we  examine  the  first  act,  we  find  in  it  a  marvellously 
complete  exhibition  of  the  potentialities  of  both  of 
them  for  good  and  ill — Macbeth's  physical  courage, 
his  prowess  on  the  battlefield,  the  confidence  of  others 
in  him,  the  evil  already  fermenting  in  his  mind,  his 
imaginative  and  superstitious  temperament ;  Lady 
Macbeth's  strength  and  moral  courage,  her  singleness 
of  purpose,  the  power  and  direction  of  her  influence 
over  her  husband's  more  sensitive  and  less  resolute 
nature : — all  these  things  are  made  clear  to  us  in  broad 
outline ;  we  feel  that  we  have  been  brought  into  the 
closest  contact  with  the  motive-forces  of  these  two 
mighty  personalities.     Yet  this  act  contains,  all  told, 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  249 

only  some  twenty- five  pages  of  ordinary  print,  or 
fewer  than  five  hundred  lines  ;  and  in  it  Lady  Macbeth 
speaks  only  fourteen  times,  uttering  864  words,  and 
Macbeth  only  twenty-six  times,  uttering  878  words. 
In  the  whole  play  Lady  Macbeth  has  something  less 
than  60  speeches,  Macbeth  barely  150,  and  in  each 
case  some  of  the  speeches  are  very  short.^  Perhaps 
it  is  only  when  we  put  it  in  this  way  that  we  are 
quite  able  to  appreciate  the  extraordinary  range  and 
resources  of  Shakespeare's  art,  which  once  appreciated 
must  remain,  as  Professor  Barrett  Wendell  says,  "  a 
matter  for  constant  admiration."  Macbeth  is  indeed 
an  exceptional  example  of  condensation,  but  any 
other  of  Shakespeare's  greater  plays  would  on  analysis 
reveal  results  only  a  little  less  surprising.  Hamlet's, 
for  instance,  is  the  longest  single  part  in  the  Shake- 
spearean drama  ;  yet  when  we  think  of  the  enormous 
complexity  of  the  character  and  of  the  place  which  it 
holds  among  the  great  imaginative  creations  of  all 
literature,  it  is  not  the  length  of  the  part,  but  its 
brevity  which  should   impress  us. 

Concentration  as  a  necessary  condition  of  dramatic 
characterisation,  of  course,  implies  the  most  carefully 
considered  emphasis  upon  the  qualities  which  have  to 
be  brought  into  relief  More  even  than  in  the  novel, 
therefore,  every  word  of  dialogue  must  be  made  to  tell, 
each  feature  must  be  elaborated  in  strict  relevancy  to  the 
whole,  and  all  mere  supererogatory  talk  must  be  avoided. 
The  rule  being  that  every  character  should  be  so  pre- 
sented as  to  appear  absolutely  adequate  to  all  the  de- 
mands which  the  plot  makes  upon  it,  "dramatic  criticism 
is  inclined  to  insist,"  as  Professor  Tolman  says,  "  that 

1  Barrett  Wendell's  William  Shakespeare^  p.  308. 


250  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

only  those  characteristics  of  the  hero  " — or  indeed  of 
any  important  personage — "  should  be  made  prominent 
which  really  influence  the  course  of  the  action ;  and 
that  these  characteristics  should  be  unmistakable."  ^ 
The  principles  of  dramatic  economy  may  justly  be 
appealed  to  in  support  of  this  opinion.  Yet  it  is 
interesting  to  note  that  the  great  creators  of  character 
in  the  drama  seem  sometimes  to  become  absorbed  in 
the  development  of  character  for  its  own  sake,  with  a 
resulting  occasional  tendency  to  what  we  may  call 
"  over-characterisation  "  —  that  is,  characterisation  in 
excess  of  the  real  needs  of  the  action.  Shakespeare 
not  infrequently  exhibits  this  tendency.  There  is 
undoubtedly  more  in  the  character  of  Hamlet,  for 
example,  than  is  actually  required  to  account  for  his 
part  in  the  plot.^ 

An  even  more  important  condition  of  characterisa- 
imper-  tion  in  the  drama  than  that  of  mere  brevity 
Bonaiity.  jg  j^g  necessary  impersonality.  The  novelist 
can  himself  mingle  freely  with  the  men  and  women 
of  his  story,  take  them  to  pieces  from  the  outside,  lay 
their  thoughts  and  feelings  bare  before  us,  pass  judg- 
ment upon  them.  The  dramatist  cannot  do  this ; 
he    is   compelled    to    stand  apart.      Here    again,  and 

^  The  Views  about  Hamlet  and  other  Essays^  p.  44. 

*  Coleridge  was  evidently  inclined  to  regard  Dogberry  and  his  com- 
panions as  instances  of  over- characterisation — '*  any  other  less  ingeniously 
absurd  watchmen  and  night-constables  would,"  he  declares,  "  have 
answered  the  mere  necessities  of  the  action "  {Lectures  and  Notes  on 
Shakespeare^  p.  139).  But  Coleridge,  who  had  such  a  marvellous  power 
of  discovering  things  which  Shakespeare  did  not  put  into  his  plays,  often 
failed  to  see  what  he  did  put  there.  Dogberry  and  his  fellows  provide, 
in  fact,  an  admirable  example  of  the  vital  dependence  of  action  upon 
character.  Their  interview  with  Leonato  in  Act  III.,  scene  v.,  suffices 
to  prove  this. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  251 

most  obviously,  the  advantage  is  on  the  side  of  the 
novelist,  especially  where  complexities  of  character 
and  the  subtler  shadings  of  motive  and  passion  are 
concerned.  When,  remembering  this,  we  join  with 
such  advantage  his  practically  unrestricted  freedom 
in  respect  alike  of  movement  and  of  space,  we  can 
see  that  the  peculiarities  which  critics  sometimes 
regard  as  the  artistic  imperfections  of  the  novel — its 
wide  range,  its  looseness  of  structure,  its  eminently 
personal  quality — really  give  it  an  enormous  superiority 
to  the  drama  in  the  field  of  characterisation.  Here  we 
have  one  among  several  reasons  which  go  far  to  explain 
the  displacement  of  the  drama  by  prose  fiction  in  an 
age  greatly  occupied  with  the  problems  of  the  inner 
life. 

It  is  clear  that  we  have  now  reached  the  point  of 
fundamental  distinction  between  characterisa-  ijiet^ods  of 
tion  in  the  novel  and  characterisation  in  the  chaxacter- 
drama.  There  arises,  therefore,  the  question 
of  the  methods  of  dramatic  characterisation.  Debarred 
as  he  is  from  adopting  the  novelist's  simple  plan  of 
constituting  himself  the  official  interpreter  of  his  men 
and  women,  and  telling  us  himself  all  that  we  need 
to  know  about  them,  how  does  the  playwright  disclose 
their  personalities  to  us  ?  How  does  he  make  us 
realise  what  manner  of  men  and  women  they  are? 
He  has,  of  course,  to  do  so  wholly  through  the  medium 
of  the  plot  and  the  utterances  of  his  characters.^ 

^  It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  point  out,  though  it  may  perhaps  be  de- 
sirable to  do  so,  that  the  novelist,  too,  makes  continual  use  of  plot  and 
the  utterances  of  his  characters  ;  the  contrast  lies  in  the  fact  that  he  is  at 
liberty  also,  whenever  he  deems  it  requisite  for  clearness  in  characterisa- 
tion, to  reinforce  the  results  so  obtained  by  personal  explanation  and 
commentary.     As  shown  in  the  last  chapter,  there  are  novelists  who  lean 


252  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

It   is    possible   that,    drawing   as   we   often   do   an 

.  ^^         arbitrary  line  of  demarcation  between  them, 

Action.  -^         .  1      ,       ,         .      .o  r 

we   commonly   overlook    the   significance  of 

plot  as  a  means  of  characterisation.  Yet  action  con- 
notes character  and  implies  it.  Through  the  very 
movement  of  a  story,  and  particularly  through  its 
great  crises  and  situations,  the  larger  intellectual  and 
moral  qualities  of  the  persons  who  take  part  in  it  are 
necessarily  impressed  upon  us.  We  know  them  by 
what  they  do,  as  the  tree  is  known  by  its  fruit.  The 
importance  of  this  point  will  become  more  manifest  if 
we  recall  what  has  been  said  aboat  the  proper  inter- 
relations of  plot  and  character  in  a  well-constructed 
story.^  In  a  good  play,  as  in  a  good  novel,  plot 
really  rests  upon  character  ;  it  evolves,  as  I  have  said, 
"  as  a  natural  consequence  of  the  fact  that  a  number 
of  given  people,  of  such  and  such  dispositions  and 
impelled  by  such  and  such  motives  and  passions,  are 
brought  together  in  circumstances  which  give  rise  to 
an  interplay  of  influence  or  clash  of  interests  among 
them."  This  being  so,  the  evolution  of  the  story 
inevitably  reveals  their  dispositions,  motives,  and 
passions,  which  are  indeed  the  actual  forces  behind 
the  events  of  which  the  story  is  composed.  This  is 
a  corollary  from  the  remark  of  Mr  Jones  which  I  have 
quoted,  that  in  theatrical  work,  story,  incident,  and 
situation  "should  be  only  another  phase  of  the  de- 
velopment of  character."      It  was  a  curious  practice 

towards  the  "analytical"  or  non-dramatic  method,  and  novelists  who  lean 
towards  the  dramatic  method  (see  ante^  pp.  192-194).  In  the  works  of  the 
former,  the  intrusion  of  the  writer  is  frequent ;  in  those  of  the  latter, 
personal  explanation  and  commentary  are  introduced  as  sparingly  as 
possible. 
^  See  ante^  pp.  200,  201. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DBAMA  253 

of  Diderot,  when  he  went  to  the  theatre,  to  stop  his 
ears  to  the  dialogue  and  to  watch  the  play  as  mere 
pantomime.  He  did  so  for  the  purpose  of  isolating 
the  acting  and  studying  this  by  itself.  But  such  an 
experiment  might  be  made  for  the  isolation  of  the 
action  and  the  study  of  the  exposition  of  character 
through  this  and  the  histrionic  interpretation  which 
would  be  required  to  make  it  effective.  Were 
Agamemnon  or  CEdipus  the  King,  Hamlet,  Macbeth, 
or  Othello,  represented  in  dumb  show  only,  we  should 
still  be  left  in  little  doubt  as  to  the  broad  character- 
istics of  their  principal  personalities.  We  should  at 
least  have  certain  outstanding  features  to  rely  upon, 
and  from  these  much  else  might  be  safely  inferred. 

Plot,  however,  since  it  can  show  us  nothing  more 
than  the  man  in  action,  discloses  such  broad 
characteristics  only  ;  and  that  it  may  do  even 
this  at  all  clearly,  it  is  necessary  that  it  should  be  bold 
in  outlines  and  full  of  movement,  that  its  critical 
situations  should  be  so  well  defined  that  to  mistake 
their  meaning  is  impossible,  and  that  the  characters 
themselves  should  be  of  the  massive  and  relatively 
simple  kind.  All  these  conditions,  we  may  just  note 
in  passing,  are  fulfilled  in  our  English  romantic  drama. 
For  all  details  of  characterisation,  and  for  the  exhibition 
of  passions,  motives,  feelings  in  their  growth,  entangle- 
ments, and  conflicts,  we  must  in  every  case  refer  from 
the  action  itself  to  the  dialogue  which  accompanies  it ; 
and  evidently  this  must  be  particularly  true  where  the 
interest  of  a  drama  is  predominantly  psychological 
and  the  plot  concerns  itself  rather  with  the  play  of  the 
forces  behind  action  than  in  the  external  events  in 
which    these    discharge    themselves.      Dialogue    then 


254  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATURE 

becomes  an  essential  adjunct  to  action,  or  even  an 
integral  part  of  it :  the  story  moving  beneath  the  talk, 
and  being,  stage  by  stage,  elucidated  by  it.  Yet  the 
principal  function  of  dialogue  in  the  drama  as  in  the 
novel  is,  as  I  have  said,  in  direct  connection  with 
characterisation.^  Even  in  the  hands  of  the  novelist, 
as  we  have  already  seen,  dialogue  will  often  be  used 
to  fill  the  place  and  do  the  work  of  analysis  and  com- 
mentary. In  the  drama  (save  for  the  exception  presently 
to  be  mentioned)  it  is  not  simply  an  aid  to  analysis 
and  commentary,  it  is,  in  fact,  a  substitute  for  them. 

We  may  regard  dramatic  dialogue  as  a  means  of 
characterisation  under  two  heads  ;  taking,  first,  the 
utterances  of  a  given  person  in  his  conversation  with 
others,  and  then  the  remarks  made  about  him  by  other 
persons  in  the  play. 

Of  the  former  aspect  of  dialogue  there  is  little 
to  be  said.  Speaking  broadly,  the  utterances  of  any 
person  in  a  play  will  furnish  a  continual  running  com- 
mentary upon  his  conduct  and  character ;  and  when, 
for  any  reason,  such  commentary  is  particularly  neces- 
sary, we  may  expect  to  find  scenes  in  which  the  action 
practically  stands  still  while  thoughts,  feelings,  and 
motives  are  brought  to  the  front.  *'  Mere  talk  " — as  it 
is  sometimes  called  by  those  who  are  impatient  of  any 
delay  in  the  movement  of  a  story — talk  in  which  we 
are  directly  concerned  with  character  and  only  in- 
directly with  incident — the  kind  of  talk  of  which  there 
is  so  much,  for  instance,  in  the  greater  plays  of 
Moliere  and  in  the  works  of  modern  psychological 
playwrights  like  Ibsen — is  thus  amply  justified  on  the 
one  condition  that  it  really  serves  the  end  for  which 

^  Cp.  ante^  pp.  203-205, 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  255 

it  is  intended.  Of  course,  in  the  critical  examination 
of  dialogue  the  demands  of  natural  reticence,  and 
occasionally  of  deliberate  disguise,  may  have  to  be 
allowed  for.  Much  that  a  person  tells  us  about  him- 
self may  have  to  be  told,  as  it  were,  unconsciously  and 
by  implication.  Alceste  in  Moliere's  Le  Misanthrope 
will  very  properly  make  a  full  statement  of  his  feelings 
to  his  friend  and  confidant  Philante;  but  just  as 
properly  the  arch-hypocrite  in  the  same  writer's  Le 
Tartuffe  will  do  his  utmost  to  hide  his  real  nature 
from  those  about  him.  In  this  case,  indeed,  we  already 
know  him  too  well  to  be  deceived.  But  now  and 
then  it  may  be  necessary  that  some  character  should 
at  first  throw  us  more  or  less  completely  off  our  guard 
as  to  his  aims  and  motives,  and  reveal  these  only 
gradually,  or,  as  is  far  more  likely  to  happen,  in  some 
sudden  turn  of  the  action,  like  Euphrasia  in  Beaumont 
and  Fletcher's  Philaster.  Where  this  occurs,  we 
shall  then  have  to  go  back  over  the  whole  play  and 
consider  all  the  utterances  of  the  person  in  question 
under  the  fresh  light  which  this  final  revelation  throws 
upon  them.  A  skilful  playwright,  unless  he  has  some 
special  motive  for  concealment  or  delay,  will  take 
pains  to  indicate  the  fundamental  qualities  of  his 
principal  characters — the  qualities  on  which  the  plot 
is  to  hinge — as  soon  and  as  clearly  as  possible.  This 
is  Shakespeare's  general  method.  "  The  later  a  new 
characteristic  trait  enters  the  action,  the  more  care- 
fully," as  Freytag  says,  "  must  the  motive  for  it  be  laid 
in  the  beginning,  in  order  that  the  spectator  may  enjoy 
to  the  full  extent  the  pleasure  of  the  surprise,  and 
perceive  that  it  corresponds  exactly  to  the  constitution 
of  the  character."  ^ 

*  Technique  of  the  Drama,  Chap.  IV.  iii. 


256  THE  STQDY  OF  LITEKATURE 

While,  however,  this  direct  self-portrayal  through 
a  person's  own  speech  must  always  constitute  the 
principal  means  of  characterisation  by  dialogue,  it  may 
be  greatly  reinforced  by  what  other  people  say  about 
him  either  to  his  face  or  among  themselves.  In  this 
way  we  may  often  obtain  a  number  of  cross-lights 
which,  taken  together,  may  prove  of  the  utmost 
value.  In  considering  this  indirect  evidence  we  must, 
it  is  obvious,  keep  steadily  in  mind  its  essentially 
dramatic  quality.  Every  utterance  must  therefore  be 
tested  by  reference  to  the  character  of  the  particular 
speaker,  his  own  situation  and  relation  to  the  action, 
the  possible  bias  given  by  his  interests,  his  sympathy, 
his  antipathy.  To  catch  at  a  phrase  here  and  there, 
and,  without  thought  of  its  context,  to  treat  it  as  an  im- 
partial and  authoritative  expression  of  opinion,  is  in  the 
last  degree  uncritical.  There  are  commentators  who 
have  thus  caught  at  the  words  "  ambitious  Constance," 
in  the  opening  scene  of  Shakespeare's  King  John^ 
and  have  hastily  assumed,  on  the  strength  of  them, 
that  Shakespeare  intended  us  to  understand  that 
ambition  was  the  keynote  of  Constance's  character. 
The  question  whether  or  not  this  view  of  Constance 
is  in  fact  just,  is  not  one  which  we  now  have  to  discuss. 
The  point  is,  that  the  words  cited  do  not  in  themselves 
warrant  the  interpretation  which  is  thus  rashly  put 
upon  them.  For  the  phrase  is  used  by  Elinor  in  a 
private  speech  to  her  son  ;  and  a  moment's  considera- 
tion will  suffice  to  show  how  greatly  its  significance 
must  therefore  be  discounted  ;  since  Elinor,  in  using 
it,  is  manifestly  inspired  by  a  powerful  personal  animus 
against  Constance,  and  by  a  desire  to  influence  the 
king  against  her.      The  expression  thus  tells  us  how 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  257 

Constance  appeared  to  Elinor,  or  how  Elinor  wished 
her  to  appear  to  the  king ;  but  before  we  conclude 
that  it  also  tells  us  how  Shakespeare  would  have 
Constance  appear  to  us,  the  whole  play  must  be 
passed  under  careful  examination.  In  considering  the 
language  employed  by  any  character  about  any  other, 
then,  we  have  always  to  note  who  it  is  that  is  speak- 
ing, what  motive  such  a  person  may  in  the  circum- 
stances have  for  speaking  as  he  does,  how  his 
utterances  may  be  coloured  by  his  own  feelings. 
Only  then  shall  we  be  able  to  determine  how  far  we 
are  justified  in  taking  his  words  as  a  factor  in  the 
formation  of  our  ow^n  opinion. 

While,  however,  occasional  phrases  must  thus  be 
carefully  scrutinised  before  they  are  accepted  as  aids 
in  the  analysis  of  the  character  to  whom  they  refer,  we 
cannot  go  far  wrong  when  we  find  that  various 
utterances  scattered  through  the  dialogue  of  a  play  all 
converge  towards  the  same  point.  In  this  case  we 
have  a  body  of  cumulative  evidence,  each  item  of 
which  gains  in  value  by  its  correspondence  with  all 
the  rest.  A  dramatist  who  is  anxious  to  throw  some 
particular  figure  into  clear  relief  is  likely  to  avail 
himself  freely  of  this  method  of  cross-lighting.  Shake- 
speare often  employs  it  with  great  effect.  He  employs 
it,  for  example,  with  Antonio  in  The  Merchant  of  Venice. 
To  deepen  our  feeling  of  horror  at  Shylock's  nefarious 
scheme  against  his  life,  his  nobility  and  purity  of 
nature  are  repeatedly  impressed  upon  us  by  the 
attitude  of  the  other  characters  towards  him. 
Bassanio's  praise  of  him  in  III.  ii.  287-291  is 
cunningly  introduced  for  emphasis  at  a  critical 
moment ;    and   we  feel  that   this  is  no   mere   heated 


258  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

expression  of  friendship  and  agitation,  because  nearly 
everybody  else  in  the  play  catches  the  same  tone  of 
admiration  and  affection  : — Salanio  calls  him  "  the 
good  Antonio  "  ;  Lorenzo  refers  to  him  as  a  "  true  .  .  . 
gentleman  "  ;  Gratiano  "  loves  "  him  ;  the  chief  men 
in  Venice  respect  him ;  the  gaoler,  as  Shylock 
complains,  grants  him  unusual  privileges  ;  ^  while  even 
Shylock's  own  sneer  at  his  "  low  simplicity  "  is  only 
another  bit  of  testimony — and  it  is  not  the  less 
significant  because  it  is  oblique — to  the  merchant's 
goodness  of  heart.  In  the  case  of  Brutus  in  Julius 
Ccesar,  again,  the  measure  of  the  man  is  continually 
suggested  by  his  associates,  both  friends  and  foes ; 
the  cynical  Casca  is  bound  to  acknowledge  his  probity  ; 
Cassius  lays  stress  upon  his  nobility  and  influence  ; 
Ligarius  shows  blind  faith  in  him  ;  Portia's  devotion 
brings  out  the  tender  side  of  his  nature;  and,  as  a 
final  stroke,  his  enemy  Mark  Antony,  in  the  last 
important  passage  in  the  play,  pronounces  an  eloquent 
eulogy  upon  him  as  "the  noblest  Roman  of  them  all." 
It  is  unnecessary  to  add  further  examples  to  show  the 
value  of  this  indirect  method  of  characterisation. 

In  considering  this  method  we  shall  occasionally 
find  that  a  certain  character  in  a  play  seems  to  stand 
a  little  apart  from  the  rest  and  to  speak,  as  it  were, 
with  somewhat  greater  authority.  Such  a  character 
is  sometimes  described  as  the  "  Chorus  "  of  the  drama 
in  which  he  appears,  because  to  a  limited  extent  he 
fulfils  the  interpretative  function  of  the  Chorus  in 
Greek  tragedy.^     Of  his  role  as  commentator  I  shall 

^  See  Introduction  to    The  Merchant  of  Venice^  in    The  Elizabethan 
Shakespeare,  p.  xxxviii. 
^  See  post,  %  vi. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  259 

speak  later.  Here  we  have  only  to  note  that  where 
it  seems  safe  to  conclude  that  any  character  is  thus 
used  to  point  the  dramatist's  own  judgment,  his 
utterances  must,  of  course,  be  accepted  as  having  a 
special  weight.  Enobarbus,  for  instance,  is  commonly 
regarded  as  a  kind  of  "  Chorus"  in  Antony  and  Cleopatra; 
among  those  who  come  into  personal  contact  with  the 
queen,  he  alone  remains  untouched  by  the  spell  of  her 
marvellous  fascination  ;  he  sees  her  as  others  do  not ; 
and  his  pungent  criticisms  thus  help  very  greatly  to 
set  her  under  the  proper  light. 

I    have    said    that    there  is    one    exception   to    be 
made  to  the  general  statement  that  dialogue 
is  the  dramatist's  only  substitute  for  the  direct  soliloquy 
analysis  and  commentary  of  the  novel.      This  f^^       „ 
exception  is  furnished  by  the  device  known 
as  the  soliloquy,  under  which  term  we  include  not  only 
the  soliloquy  proper,  but  also  that  minor  subdivision  of 
the  same  form  which  we  call  the  "  aside." 

The  purpose  of  this  piece  of  pure  convention  is,  of 
course,  clear.  It  is  the  dramatist's  means  of  taking  us 
down  into  the  hidden  recesses  of  a  person's  nature,  and 
of  revealing  those  springs  of  conduct  which  ordinary 
dialogue  provides  him  with  no  adequate  opportunity  to 
disclose.  It  may  be  necessary  for  our  complete  com- 
prehension of  his  action  that  we  should  know  certain 
of  his  characters  from  the  inside.  He  cannot  himself 
dissect  them,  as  the  novelist  does.^  He  therefore  allows 
them  to  do  the  work  of  dissection  on  their  own  account. 

^  The  soliloquy  was  much  used  (probably  under  the  influence  of  the 
drama)  in  early  prose  fiction,  and  it  occasionally  appears  in  novels  of  quite 
recent  date.  In  fiction,  however,  it  is  the  more  objectionable  because  it 
is  so  manifestly  unnecessary. 


26o  THE  STUDY  OF  TJTER^TURE 

They  think  aloud  to  themselves,  and  we  overhear  what 
they  say. 

A  very  fair  account  of  the  rationale  and  functions 
of  soliloquy  in  characterisation  will  be  found  in  the 
following  remarks  by  Congreve.  His  Double  Dealer 
had  been  criticised  because,  among  other  things,  of  the 
place  given  in  it  to  soliloquy.  As  this  criticism  did 
"  not  relate  in  particular  to  this  play,  but  to  all  or  most 
that  were  ever  written,"  Congreve  undertakes  to  answer 
it  "  not  only  for  my  own  sake,  but  to  save  others  the 
trouble,  to  whom  it  may  hereafter  be  objected,"  and 
he  proceeds : — 

"  I  grant  that  for  a  man  to  talk  to  himself  appears 
absurd  and  unnatural ;  and  indeed  it  is  so  in  most 
cases  ;  but  the  circumstances  which  may  attend  the 
occasion  make  great  alteration.  It  oftentimes  happens 
to  a  man  to  have  designs  which  require  him  to  him- 
self [j-/^],  and  in  their  nature  cannot  admit  of  a  confidant. 
Such,  for  certain,  is  all  villainy ;  ^  and  other  less 
mischievous  intentions  may  be  very  improper  to  be 
communicated  to  a  second  person.  In  such  a  case, 
therefore,  the  audience  must  observe,  whether  the  person 
upon  the  stage  takes  any  notice  of  them  at  all,  or  no. 
For  if  he  supposes  any  one  to  be  by  when  he  talks  to 
himself,  it  is  monstrous  and  ridiculous  to  the  last  degree. 
Nay,  not  only  in  this  case,  but  in  any  part  of  a  play,  if 
there  is  expressed  any  knowledge  of  an  audience,  it  is 
insufferable.^     But  otherwise,  when  a  man  in  soliloquy 

1  This  particular  statement,  as  I  need  scarcely  say,  is  wholly  without 
warrant. 

"^  Congreve's  point  is  not  very  clearly  put,  but  the  reference  is  to  a 
device  occasionally  used  on  the  stage — that  of  allowing  a  speaker  to  take 
the  audience  themselves  into  his  confidence.  In  the  lighter  French  drama 
of  the  last  century  (as  in  the  farces  of  Labiche)  soliloquies  vrere  frequently 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  261 

reasons  with  himself,  and  pros  and  cons^  and  weighs  all 
his  designs,  we  ought  not  to  imagine  that  this  man 
either  talks  to  us  or  to  himself;  he  is  only  thinking,  and 
thinking  such  matter  as  were  inexcusable  folly  in  him  to 
speak.  But  because  we  are  concealed  spectators  of  the 
plot  in  agitation,  and  the  poet  finds  it  necessary  to  let 
us  know  the  whole  mystery  of  his  contrivance,  he  is 
willing  to  inform  us  of  this  person's  thoughts  ;  and  to 
that  end  is  forced  to  make  use  of  the  expedient  of  speech, 
no  other  better  way  being  yet  invented  for  the  com- 
munication of  thought."  ^ 

Apart  from  its  interest  as  a  playwright's  statement 
of  the  case  for  the  soliloquy,  this  passage  is  noteworthy 
because  it  serves  to  remind  us  that  the  convention  in 
question  was  a  common  feature  of  our  early  English 
drama.  Despite  such  adverse  opinion  as  is  here  re- 
ferred to,  a  common  feature  it  remained  down  to  quite 
recent  times,  as  a  glance  at  the  standard  English 
plays  of  the  Victorian  period  will  at  once  prove.  The 
criticism  of  our  own  day  is,  however,  distinctly  against 
its  use,  at  any  rate  in  realistic  drama  ;  it  is  now  held  to 
be  not  only  a  convention,  but  a  clumsy  convention,  and 
one,  strictly  speaking,  non-dramatic  ;  a  chief  aim  of  the 
dramatist,  it  is  asserted,  should  be  to  avoid  it ;  whilst  its 
appearance  is  deemed  sufficient  to  stamp  any  new  play 
as  "old-fashioned"  in  its  style  of  workmanship.     Even 

addressed  to  the  audience.  Sometimes  the  appeal  has  been  carried 
farther ;  as  when  the  slave  girl,  Halisca,  in  the  Castellaria  of  Plautus, 
begs  any  one  in  the  audience  who  may  have  picked  up  the  casket  she  has 
lost  to  restore  it  to  her  and  so  save  her  from  a  whipping  j  and  when  Euclio, 
in  the  Aulularia  of  the  same  writer,  seeks  among  the  spectators  for  the 
robber  of  his  gold ;  a  trick  imitated  by  Moliere  in  a  famous  scene  in 
VAvare  (IV.  vii. ). 
^  Epistle  Dedicatory  to  The  Double  Dealer. 


262  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUKE 

Mr  Jones,  who  has  valiantly  undertaken  its  defence, 
admits  that  it  is  "  childish,"  that  it  should  be  employed 
as  sparingly  as  possible,  and  that  "  it  is  never  per- 
missible to  do  by  soliloquy  what  can  be  adequately  done 
by  dialogue."  ^  The  practical  disappearance  of  both 
formal  soliloquy  and  incidental  aside  from  our  greater 
contemporary  drama,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  this 
drama  is  so  largely  psychological  in  its  interest,  is  thus 
a  most  signiiicant  index  of  a  general  change  in  our 
ideas  of  dramatic  technique. 

In  our  study  of  the  older  drama,  however,  we  must 

accept  the  soliloquy   without   protest   as   an 

speare's      established  convention,  and,  setting  aside  all 

?^®,°^  question  as  to  its  theoretical  justification, 
Soliloquy.     ^  ,  ,         .  1      , 

must  concern  ourselves  only  with  the  use  to 

which  it  is  put.  That  Shakespeare  systematically  has 
recourse  to  it  is  a  fact  familiar  to  even  the  most 
casual  reader  of  his  plays.  Again  and  again  his  lead- 
ing persons,  through  their  direct  and  confidential 
utterances,  make  us  participants  of  their  intimate 
thoughts  and  desires,  exhibit  the  motives  by  which 
their  conduct  is  governed,  and  define  their  true  rela- 
tions (which  are  often  very  different  from  their  apparent 
relations)  to  the  progress  of  events  about  them.  He 
adopts  this  course  in  particular  with  his  more  complex 
characters,  with  characters  who  are  engaged  in  internal 
conflict,  and,  generally,  in  all  cases  in  which,  but  for 
the  illumination  thus  given,  we  should  find  it  difficult 
or  impossible  to  explain  the  words  and  doings  of  the 
people  who  talk  and  act  before  us.  In  the  soliloquies 
of  Shakespeare's  characters  we  shall  therefore  natur- 
ally expect  to  find  the  real  basis  for  our  interpretation 

^  On  Playmaking^  in  The  Renascence  oj  The  English  Drama,  pp.  246-249. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  263 

of  them.  But  while  every  passage  of  self-delineation 
must  thus  be  carefully  examined,  special  importance 
must  be  attached  to  the  first  soliloquy  or  aside.  It 
has  been  noted  that  it  was  Shakespeare's  practice  to 
reveal  very  early  in  a  play  and  very  clearly  those 
qualities  of  character  in  any  principal  personage  on 
which  the  plot  is  to  turn.  It  will  be  found  that  he 
often  provides  us  with  the  necessary  clue  in  the  first 
words  which  this  personage  has  an  opportunity — 
thinking  aloud — to  utter  to  himself. 

To  complete  this  part  of  our  subject  it  should  be 
added  that  the  soliloquy  is  often  more  or  less  success- 
fully disguised  by  being  turned  into  a  speech  addressed 
to  some  listener  who  is  brought  forward  for  the 
purpose.  The  so-called  confidant  originated  in  the 
Chorus  of  Greek  tragedy,  and  passed  thence  through 
Seneca  into  the  drama  of  the  Renaissance  under  the 
form  of  the  intimate  friend,  or  nurse,  or  duenna,  or 
some  such  person  to  whom  the  speaker,  without 
restraint,  could  unburden  his  soul.  Modern  criticism 
accepts  the  confidant,  but  only  on  condition  that  he 
shall  cease  to  be  a  mere  lay-figure,  and  shall  himself  be 
provided  with  an  essential  part  in  the  action. 


IV 

We  cannot  go  far  in  our  study  of  any  play  with- 
out some  knowledge  of  the  general  principles  of 
dramatic  design.  To  these,  therefore,  we  will  now 
direct  our  attention. 

Every  dramatic  story  arises  out  of  some  conflict — 
some  clash  of  opposed  individuals,  or  passions,  or  in- 
terests.      In    the    most    elementary,    and    still    most 


264  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

popular   type   of  story,  such  conflict   takes  a   purely 

personal  form  ;  the  collision  is  between  good 

Natural       ^"^  ^^^^  ^^  embodied  respectively  in  the  hero 

Divisions  of  and  the  villain  of  the  piece.      But  it  may  of 

a  Dramatic  .  - 

Plot.  course    assume    various    other    shapes  ;    the 

struggle  may,  for  example,  be  waged  by  the 
hero  against  fate  or  circumstance,  as  in  CEdipus  the 
King  ;  or  against  the  code  or  conventions  of  society,  as 
in  Antigone,  Le  Misanthrope^  An  Enemy  of  the  People  \ 
or  the  collision  of  the  hero  with  outer  antagonistic 
forces  may  be  involved  with  and  even  largely  sub- 
ordinated to  the  inward  struggle  which  goes  on  in  the 
nature  of  the  man  himself,  who  is,  like  Brutus,  "  with 
himself  at  war,"  as  in  the  case  of  Orestes  in  The 
Libation  Bearers^  of  Hamlet,  of  Macbeth,  of  Nora  in 
A  DolPs  House.  Some  kind  of  conflict  is,  however, 
the  datum  and  very  backbone  of  a  dramatic  story.^ 
With  the  opening  of  this  conflict  the  real  plot  begins  ; 
with  its  conclusion  the  real  plot  ends ;  and  since, 
between  these  two  terms,  the  essential  interest  of  the 
story  will  be  composed  of  the  development  and  fluctua- 
tions of  the  struggle,  the  movement  of  the  plot  will 
necessarily  follow  a  fairly  well-defined  and  uniform 
course.  The  complications  which  arise  from  the  initial 
clash  of  opposed  forces  will,  as  a  rule,  continue  to 
increase  until  a  point  is  reached  at  which  a  decisive 
turn  is  taken  in  favour  of  one  side  or  the  other ;  after 
which,  the  progress  of  events  will  be  inevitably,  though 

^  A  play  in  which  the  element  of  conflict  is  slight  will  always  be  found 
defective  as  a  play,  however  great  its  other  merits  may  be.  Two  of 
Shakespeare's  dramas  are  thus  defective,  because  owing  to  the  overtower- 
ing  predominance  of  a  single  character,  who  from  first  to  last  practically 
controls  the  action,  the  interest  of  struggle  is  almost  entirely  wanting. 
These  are  Henry  V.  and  The  Tempest. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  265 

often  with  many  minor  interruptions,  towards  the  final 
triumph  of  good  over  evil  or  of  evil  over  good. 
Through  every  plot  we  may  thus  trace  more  or  less 
clearly  what  is  sometimes  called  "  the  dramatic  line." 
We  have,  to  begin  with,  some  Initial  Incident  or 
Incidents  in  which  the  conflict  originates  ;  secondly, 
the  Rising  Action,  Growth,  or  Complication,  comprising 
that  part  of  the  play  in  which  the  conflict  continues  to 
increase  in  intensity  while  the  outcome  remains 
uncertain  ;  thirdly,  the  Climax,  Crisis,  or  Turning  Point, 
at  which  one  of  the  contending  forces  obtains  such 
controlling  power  that  henceforth  its  ultimate  success 
is  assured  ;  fourthly,  the  Falling  Action,  Resolution, 
or  Denouement,  comprising  that  part  of  the  play  in 
which  the  stages  in  the  movement  of  events  towards 
this  success  are  marked  out ;  and  fifthly,  the  Con- 
clusion or  Catastrophe,  in  which  the  conflict  is  brought 
to  a  close.^ 

It  is  probable  that  this  natural  five-fold  structure  of 
a  dramatic  story  may  account  for  the  common,  indeed 
at   one   time   universal,  division   of  a   play   into   five 

1  In  the  above  epitome  I  have  given  the  principal  alternative  terms 
which  are  in  common  use  to  designate  the  different  divisions  of  a  plot. 
The  word  Climax,  as  a  synonym  for  Crisis  or  Turning  Point,  though 
currently  accepted,  is  really  unsatisfactory,  because  it  means  ladder,  and 
should  therefore  refer  to  the  rise  of  the  action  towards  its  turning  point, 
and  not  to  the  turning  point  itself.  Denouement  is  sometimes  carelessly 
made  to  do  duty  for  Catastrophe.  Catastrophe  itself  is  frequently  re- 
stricted, particularly  in  ordinary  speech,  to  the  calamitous  close  of  tragedy, 
but  it  may  properly  be  used  for  the  happy  issue  of  comedy  as  well.  I 
may  add  that  Greek  words  are  occasionally  substituted  for  those  here 
given  ;  Protasis  for  Exposition  (for  which,  see  later)  ;  Epitasis,  for 
Growth  ;  Peripeteia,  for  Turning  Point ;  Catabasis,  for  Falling  Action  ; 
but  their  employment  in  English  criticism  savours  of  pedantry,  and  is  not 
to  be  recommended. 


266  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

acts.^  It  must  be  remembered,  however,  that  in  a 
Shakespearean  or  other  five-act  drama,  the  mechanical 
divisions  do  not  actually  correspond  with  the  natural 
divisions,  since,  as  the  most  casual  examination  of  any 
such  play  will  show,  the  complication  commonly 
arises  in  the  first  act  and  runs  on  into  the  third  ;  the 
third  act  generally  contains,  along  with  a  portion  of 
the  complication,  both  the  crisis  and  the  beginning  of 
the  resolution  ;  while  the  resolution  continues  through 
the  fourth  act  into  the  fifth.  Moreover,  the  natural 
divisions,  inasmuch  as  they  are  natural,  are  of  course 
independent  of  any  artificial  disposition  of  the  materials 
of  a  story  into  a  given  number  of  acts.  In  the  four- 
act  dramas  of  our  modern  stage,  and  in  a  brief  one-act 
play,  we  shall  still  find  the  dramatic  line. 

Our  analysis  of  dramatic  structure,  however,  is  not 
yet  complete.  Though  the  real  plot  of  a  play  begins 
with  the  beginning  of  a  conflict,  such  conflict  arises 
out  of  and  therefore  pre-supposes  a  certain  existing 
condition  of  things  and  certain  relations  among  the 
characters  who  are  to  come  into  collision.  These 
conditions  and  relations  have  to  be  explained  to  us, 
since  otherwise  the  story  will  be  unintelligible.  We 
have  therefore  to  distinguish  another  division  of  a 
drama — the  Introduction  or  Exposition,  comprising 
that  part  of  it  which  leads  up  to  and  prepares  for  the 
initial  incident. 

1  This  division  reached  the  modern  stage  through  the  Latin  tragedies 
of  Seneca,  which  exercised  an  enormous  influence  over  the  drama  of  the 
Renaissance  in  England  as  well  as  in  Italy  and  France.  It  M'as  doubtless 
based  directly  upon  the  normal  (though  by  no  means  uniform)  division  of 
a  Greek  tragedy  into  a  Prologue,  three  Episodes,  and  an  Exodus — five 
parts  in  all.  Latin  comedies  appear  to  have  been  first  broken  up  into 
acts,  also  five  in  number,  by  the  editors  of  the  sixteenth  century. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  267 

Since  Freytag  first  pointed  out  that  the  plot  of  a 
play  may  be  symbolised  as  a  "  pyramidal  structure," 
it  has  been  a  common  practice  with  writers  on 
dramatic  theory  to  represent  the  dramatic  line  in  the 
form  of  a  diagram.  Different  versions  have  been 
adopted  ;  the  one  I  should  select  would  be  this  : — 


In  this  diagram,  a  stands  for  the  exposition  ;  5,  for 
the  initial  incident ;  c,  for  the  growth  of  the  action  to 
its  crisis  ;  d,  for  the  crisis,  or  turning  point  ;  e,  for  the 
resolution  ;  and/,  for  the  catastrophe.  This  particular 
figure,  however,  will  evidently  serve  only  to  represent 
a  play  in  which,  as,  e.^-.j  in  Julius  Ccesar,  the  crisis 
comes  almost  exactly  in  the  middle  of  the  plot,  which 
is  thus  divided  into  two  practically  equal  parts.  It 
would  of  course  have  to  be  varied  to  meet  cases  in 
which  this  extreme  symmetry  is  not  found.  Thus,  in 
King  Lear  the  real  crisis  of  the  main  plot  is  in  the  very 
first  scene  ;  in  Othello  it  does  not  occur  till  the  first 
scene  of  the  fourth  act.  In  order  to  indicate 
approximately  the  plot-movement  in  these  two  in- 
stances, we  should  have  to  use  for  the  one  some 
such  form  as — 

.  . f 


268  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

and  for  the  other,  some  such  form  as — 


The  use  of  this  pyramidal  diagram  in  the  study  of 
dramatic  technique  is  now  so  popular  that  I  could  not 
possibly  pass  it  over  here  without  some  reference.  Its 
principal  claim  upon  our  attention  undoubtedly  lies 
in  the  fact  that  it  helps  to  bring  the  great  divisions  of 
a  dramatic  story  vividly  before  our  minds.  On  the 
whole,  however,  I  am  inclined  to  deprecate  the  em- 
ployment of  such  diagrams  in  the  study  of  literature 
in  general,  as  tending  to  make  it  too  mechanical  and 
formal.  I  will,  therefore,  without  further  discussion, 
leave  this  "  dramatic  pyramid  "  with  the  reader  for  his 
own  consideration. 

Having  now  learned  what  are  the  great  divisions  of 
a  dramatic  story,  we  have  next  to  examine  these  one 
by  one,  and  to  inquire  under  each  head  what  con- 
stitute some  of  the  chief  demands  of  good  dramatic 
workmanship. 

The  purpose  of  the  introduction  or  exposition  is  to 
put  the  spectator  in  possession  of  all  such 
tion°^^  information  as  is  necessary  for  the  proper 
understanding  of  the  play  he  is  about  to 
witness.  At  the  outset,  he  finds  himself  in  the  presence 
of  a  number  of  people  in  whose  fortunes  he  hopes  soon 
to  be  interested,  but  of  whom  and  of  whose  circum- 
stances he  for  the  moment  knows  nothing  ;  and  as  it 
is  essential  that  he  should  learn  as  quickly  as  possible 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  269 

who  and  what  they  are,  and  what  the  relations  in  which 
they  stand  to  one  another  before  the  action  begins,  the 
opening  scene  or  scenes  of  any  drama  must  be  largely 
occupied  with  explanatory  matter.  It  is  a  common- 
place of  dramatic  criticism  that  the  management  of 
this  explanatory  matter  is  one  of  the  severest  tests  of  a 
playwright's  skill ;  be  his  story  ever  so  simple,  difficulties 
will  be  involved  in  it ;  and  these  difficulties  of  course 
increase  with  the  complexity  of  his  subject  and  the 
number  of  his  characters.  Even  the  novelist  is  often 
greatly  taxed  by  his  preliminaries,  and  sometimes 
staggers  awkwardly  beneath  the  heavy  burden  which 
they  impose.  "  When  one  has  a  story  to  tell,"  says 
Mrs  Stowe,  in  the  first  chapter  of  her  best,  though  not 
her  best  known  book,  The  Minister's  Wooing^  "  one  is 
always  puzzled  which  end  of  it  to  begin  at.  You  have 
a  whole  corps  of  people  to  introduce  that  you  know 
and  your  reader  doesn't ;  and  one  thing  so  presupposes 
another  that,  whichever  way  you  turn  your  patchwork, 
the  figures  still  seem  ill-arranged."  ^  If  such  be  the 
experience  of  the  novelist,  who  can  always,  when 
necessary,  have  recourse  to  direct  narrative  and  ex- 
planation, the  difficulty  of  exposition  in  the  drama 
must  be  apparent. 

Among  the  expedients  which  have  been  adopted  to 
overcome  this  difficulty,  the  least  dramatic  is  the  set 
speech  of  some  particular  character,  to  whom,  more  or 
less  appropriately,  the  task  of  elucidation  is  thus 
assigned.  The  crudest  form  of  this  is  the  detached 
explanatory  prologue,  or  "  versified  programme,"  ^ 
habitually  used  by  Euripides  and  Seneca.      This  has 

^  Cp.  ante^  p.  180,  note  i. 

^L.  D.  Barnett,  The  Greek  Drama,  p.  18. 


270  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

never  had  an  established  place  on  the  modern  stage ; 
yet  some  of  Shakespeare's  introductory  soliloquies — 
notably  that  of  Gloucester  in  Richard  III, — may 
almost  be  regarded  as  attenuated  survivals  of  it.  But 
the  set  speech,  though  now  indeed  embedded  in 
dialogue  and  occasionally  broken  by  it,  may  still  be 
recognised  in  those  lengthy  passages  of  retrospect  and 
description  which  are  so  clumsy  a  feature  of  the  open- 
ing scenes  in  many  Elizabethan  and  Stuart  plays. 
Dryden  may  have  been  guilty  of  some  little  exaggera- 
tion when  he  said  that  such  passages  "  are  seldom 
listened  to  by  the  audience  "  :  ^  but  it  is  certain  that 
only  a  very  perfunctory  attention  is  commonly  ac- 
corded to  them,  and  unless  they  are  marked  by  real 
dramatic  power,  they  are  sure  to  drag.  The  tedious 
narrative  of  Prospero  in  the  second  scene  of  The 
Tempest  is  a  case  in  point  ;  another  is  furnished  by 
Horatio's  long  account  of  the  political  relations  of 
Denmark  and  Norway,  which  greatly  mars  the  exposi- 
tion in  Hamlet^  otherwise  an  admirable  piece  of  work. 
Evidently,  then,  the  dramatist  will  always  be  well 
advised  when  he  breaks  up  his  introductory  narratives 
as  much  as  possible,  and  relieves  them  of  their  formal 
quality  by  giving  them  the  tone  of  conversation.  Thus 
we  pass,  though  of  course  by  insensible  degrees,  to 
exposition  through  dialogue,  and  here  it  is  easy  for 
the  veriest  tyro  in  criticism  to  distinguish  between 
what  is  really  excellent  in  dramatic  workmanship  and 
what  is  slovenly  or  poor.  Every  playgoer  is  familiar 
with  the  servants  who,  while  busy  dusting  furniture  or 
laying  the  breakfast-table,  discourse  freely  of  their 
master's  concerns ;  with  the  person  just  returned  from 

^  Essay  of  Dra?natu  Poesie, 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  271 

abroad,  who  hungers  for  all  the  local  news,  and  oppor- 
tunely meets  an  old  acquaintance  who  is  able  and  eager 
to  satisfy  his  curiosity ;  with  the  "  First  Gentleman  " 
and  "  Second  Gentleman "  whom  Shakespeare  em- 
ployed when  he  was  in  a  hurry,  and  whom  Tennyson 
artlessly  borrowed  from  him.  In  all  such  cases  the 
artifice  is  so  obvious  and  so  "  stagey  "  that,  while  we 
listen  to  the  talk  because  we  know  that  from  it  we 
must  glean  all  the  particulars  that  are  necessary  if 
the  coming  action  is  to  be  intelligible  to  us,  we  do  so 
with  an  irritating  sense  that  it  has  all  been  arranged 
for  nothing  but  our  own  edification.  This  maladroit 
kind  of  exposition  was  happily  satirised  by  Sheridan 
in  The  Critic.  Sir  Walter  Raleigh  is  introduced  in 
conversation  with  Sir  Christopher  Hatton,  and  proceeds 
to  give  his  friend  a  great  deal  of  manifestly  gratuitous 
information.  Dangle  interrupts  the  rehearsal  with  the 
remark  :  "  Mr  Puff,  as  he  knows  all  this,  why  does 
Sir  Walter  go  on  telling  him  ? "  Puff's  reply  is : 
"  But  the  audience  are  not  supposed  to  know  anything 
of  the  matter,  are  they  ?  "  ^'  True,"  says  Sneer,  "  but 
I  think  you  manage  ill  ;  for  there  is  no  reason  why  Sir 
Walter  should  be  so  communicative."  Whereupon 
Puff  retorts  :  "  Foregad  now,  that  is  one  of  the  most 
ungrateful  observations  I  have  ever  heard  ;  for  the  less 
inducement  he  has  to  tell  all  this,  the  more  I  think 
you  ought  to  be  obliged  to  him  ;  for  I  am  sure  you'd 
know  nothing  of  the  matter  v/ithout  it."  The  art  of 
a  dramatist  is  nowhere  shown  to  greater  advantage 
than  in  his  power  so  to  conduct  his  exposition  as  to 
relieve  it  of  all  such  appearance  of  effort  and  artifice. 
Good  exposition  will  therefore  take  the  form  of  dialogue 
which  seems  in  the  circumstances  to  be  natural  and 


272  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

appropriate,  which  is  put  into  the  mouths  of  characters 
who  are  made  at  once  to  interest  us,  and  which  is 
moreover  so  bound  up  with  the  beginning  of  the  action 
as  to  be  practically  undistinguishable  from  it.  In 
such  fine  dramatic  openings  as,  for  example,  those  of 
Othello  and  The  Alchemist^  the  business  of  the  play- 
starts  almost  with  the  rise  of  the  curtain  ;  our  attention 
is  immediately  arrested  and  our  curiosity  aroused  by 
scenes  and  talk  which  are  full  of  life  and  character ; 
and  in  following  these  we  unconsciously  learn  all  that 
is  for  the  moment  requisite  about  the  initial  situation, 
the  events  which  have  led  up  to  it,  and  the  people 
whose  fortunes  are  to  provide  the  substance  of  the 
plot.  It  must  of  course  be  understood  that  it  is  often 
impossible  for  the  dramatist  to  attain  ideal  perfection 
in  this  portion  of  his  work.  His  introductory  matter 
may  prove  so  intractable  that  even  under  the  most 
dexterous  handling  some  signs  of  effort  and  artifice  will 
remain  ;  and  since  it  is  the  first  condition  of  exposition 
that,  at  whatever  cost,  it  shall  at  least  furnish  us  with 
the  necessary  clues  to  the  coming  action,  the  employ- 
ment of  purely  conventional  stage  devices  may  have 
to  be  accepted  as  unavoidable.  Yet  the  ideal  should 
none  the  less  be  kept  in  view  as  a  standard  for 
judgment.  Exposition  should  be  clear  ;  it  should  be 
as  brief  as  the  nature  of  the  material  will  permit ;  ^  it 
should  be  dramatic  ;  it  should  if  possible  be  vitally 
connected  with  the  first  movements  of  the  plot ;  and 
it   should    be   so   disguised   that,   while    analysis   will 

^  In  the  opening  scenes  only  those  details  will  commonly  be  given  which 
are  needed  for  the  comprehension  of  the  first  stages  of  the  action,  other 
particulars  being  left  for  later  introduction.  We  shall  see  presently  that 
in  a  certain  type  of  drama  exposition  in  one  sense  forms  the  very  substance 
of  the  pla/ 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  273 

never  fail  to  reveal  its  mechanism,  the  impression  left 

upon  the  spectator  shall  be  one  of  absolute  naturalness 

and  spontaneity. 

In  our  diagrammatic  representation  of  plot  in  the 

drama,  it    will    be    seen   that    exposition    is 

',     „  ,.   ,  .  .         Initial  In- 

marked  oft  as  a  separate  division,  preparing    cident  or 

for    but  independent  of   the    action    proper.    Exciting 

From  what  has  just  been   said,  however,  it 

will  be  evident  that  this  is  only  an  arbitrary  way  of 

conceiving   the  matter,  since  plot  will  commonly  be 

found  to  begin  before  exposition  is  over.     Somewhere 

in  the  early  part  of  a  play,  possibly  in  the  very  first 

scene,^  in  any  case  before  the  end  of  the  first  act,  we 

shall  come   upon   the  genesis  of  the  action   in   some 

incident  or   incidents   which,   as  giving   birth   to   the 

conflict  out  of  which  the  play  is  to  be  made,  may  be 

described,  in   Freytag's  terminology,  as  "  the  exciting 

force."      It  is  not  necessary  that    this  exciting  force 

should  stand  out  prominently  at  the  time,  or  that  we 

should  be  made  to  realise  at  any  given  moment  that 

the    action   of  the    play   has   begun ;    though  it  was 

Shakespeare's  general  practice  to  mark  distinctly  the 

starting-point    of   his    dramatic    conflict.       It    should 

perhaps  be  noted  that  the  use  of  the  word  "  incident " 

to  define   this   starting-point,  while   very  common  in 

technical  criticism,  is  open  to  objection  on  the  ground 

that   the  real  inception  of  the  action  is  often  to   be 

found  (as,  e.g.,  in  Richard  I  11.^  Julius  Ccesar,  and  Othello) 

not  in  some  particular  occurrence,  but  in  the  purpose 

formed  suddenly  or  gradually,  in  the  mind  of  one  of 

^  In  King  Lear,  the  business  of  the  main-plot  really  begins  with  the 
entrance  of  the  King  at  line  33  of  scene  I,  and  with  scarcely  anything 
that  we  can  call  exposition. 


\ 


274  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

the  characters,  whose  subsequent  efforts  to  carry  out 
his  designs  will  thus  become  the  motive-principle  of 
the  plot.  "  Incident "  must  therefore  be  interpreted 
broadly  enough  to  cover  mental  processes  as  well  as 
external  events.  In  many  cases  we  may  distinguish 
two  springs  of  action  ;  as  in  Romeo  and  Juliet^  where 
the  conflict  arises  both  from  Romeo's  determination  to 
attend  the  Capulets'  ball  and  from  the  resolve  of 
Juliet's  parents  to  marry  her  to  the  County  Paris  ;  and 
again  in  Macbeth,  in  which  the  motive  of  the  drama  is 
to  be  sought  in  the  mind  of  Lady  Macbeth  no  less 
than  in  that  of  her  husband.  Of  course  in  a  play 
composed  of  two  or  more  stories,  each  story  will  have 
its  initial  incident ;  and  these  initial  incidents  may  or 
may  not  occur  close  together.  In  The  Merchant  of 
Venice,  for  example,  the  principal  plots  arise  almost  at 
the  same  time  in  the  first  act,  while  the  minor  imbroglio 
of  the  rings,  which  is  to  help  to  fill  out  the  drama 
after  its  main  interest  has  been  completed,  does  not 
originate  until  the  second  scene  of  the  third  act.  But 
such  late  introduction  of  new  motives  is  not  as  a  rule 
to  be  regarded  as  satisfactory. 

With  the  initial    incident  we  enter   upon  the  real 

business  of  the  play,  the  first  portion  of 
Action.        which  comprises  the  complication,  or  rise  of 

the  action  to  its  crisis.  Here  the  instinct  of 
every  thoughtful  reader  will  lead  him  as  a  matter  of 
course  to  test  the  dramatist's  workmanship  by  the 
elementary  canons  of  clearness  and  logical  consistency. 
Given  the  characters  and  their  circumstances,  then 
every  event  should  appear  to  grow  naturally  out  of 
what  preceded  it ;  while  in  the  movement  of  the  action 
as  a  whole,  that  which   is   essential   should  never  be 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  275 

obscured  by  unimportant  details,  however  interesting 
in  themselves  these  may  be.  The  play  of  motives 
should  be  distinctly  shown,  and  should  be  obviously 
sufficient  to  account  for  what  is  said  and  done ;  and 
the  proper  relations  between  character  and  action 
should  be  carefully  maintained.  Moreover,  every 
scene  should  occupy  a  definite  place  in  the  evolution 
of  the  dramatic  organism,  either  by  marking  a  fresh 
stage  in  the  development  of  the  plot,  or  by  adding  to 
our  knowledge  of  the  characters,  or  in  both  of  these 
ways.  The  rigorous  application  of  this  principle  of 
dramatic  economy  to  Shakespeare's  plays  will  occasion- 
ally yield  rather  unexpected  results.  No  one  of 
course  will  require  to  be  told  that  the  scene  in  The 
Merry  Wives  of  Windsor  (IV.  i.),  in  which  Sir  Hugh 
Evans  cross-examines  little  William  on  the  rudiments 
of  Latin  accidence,  has  really  nothing  whatever  to  do 
with  the  play  :  but  it  may  perhaps  give  us  a  shock  of 
surprise  to  discover  that  Hamlet's  famous  interview 
with  the  Grave-diggers  (V.  i.  1-240),  while  we  should 
never  now  dream  of  sacrificing  it  to  the  demands  of 
structural  unity,  has  in  fact  no  artistic  justification.^ 

The  playwright's  treatment  of  his  material  is  also 
a  subject  for  careful  consideration  from  the  point  of 
view  of  technique  and  dramatic  effect.  Swept  along 
by  the  strong  current  of  interest,  the  ordinary  reader 
or  spectator  accepts  a  great  scene — like  the  Trial  Scene 
in  The  Merchant  of  Venice,  or  the  Play  Scene  in 
Hamlet,  or  the  scene  in  Ibsen's  DolVs  House,  in  which 
Nora  dances  a  tarentella  while  Krogstad's  incriminat- 

^  Critics  of  Shakespeare  are  indeed  coming  more  and  more  to  realise 
that  Hamlet  is  throughout  overloaded  with  matter  which  has  little  or  no 
vital  connection  with  the  plot. 


276  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

ing  letter  lies  close  at  hand  in  her  husband's  letter-box 
— as  if  it  were  a  spontaneous  growth,  and  all  its  details 
matters  of  mere  happy  chance.  It  is  only  when  we 
place  such  a  scene  under  searching  analysis,  and  note 
every  turn  of  the  action  and  every  phrase  in  the 
dialogue,  that  we  begin  to  appreciate  the  consummate 
skill  by  the  exercise  of  which  the  dramatist  has  made 
the  very  most  of  his  opportunity.  When  once  our 
attention  has  been  directed  to  this  side  of  his  art, 
however,  every  particular  relating  to  plan  and  structure 
will  be  found  to  have  its  significance.  We  shall 
instantly  perceive — to  take  a  single  example — how 
greatly  the  effect  of  the  central  incident  in  Much  Ado 
about  Nothing,  Act  II.  scene  iii.,  is  enhanced  by  Bene- 
dick's long  soliloquy  which  leads  up  to  it.  It  must  at 
the  same  time  be  remembered  that  as  the  aim  of  the 
dramatist  must  always  be  to  achieve  the  appearance  of 
naturalness  and  spontaneity  even  in  his  most  cunningly 
devised  effects,  whatever  obtrudes  itself  upon  us  as 
contrivance  must  be  accounted  an  artistic  mistake. 
Such  obtrusion  is  one  secret  of  the  "  staginess  "  which 
offends  us  in  many  otherwise  well-made  dramas. 
Every  student  of  Shakespeare  knows  that  one  differ- 
ence between  his  experimental  and  his  mature  plays 
lies  in  the  fact  that  in  the  former  the  devices  employed 
to  obtain  effect  are  so  obvious  that  they  cannot  escape 
even  the  least  attentive  reader,  while  in  the  latter  they 
are  so  deftly  managed  that  it  needs  critical  examina- 
tion to  bring  them  to  light. 

The  foregoing  considerations,  though  it  has  been 
convenient  to  deal  with  them  in  connection  with  the 
first  stage  of  the  dramatic  action,  will  manifestly  be 
found  to  apply  to  the  management  of  the  plot  as  a 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  277 

whole.  One  special  feature  of  the  complication  must 
however  be  referred  to.  It  may  be  laid  down  as  a 
general  rule  that  during  the  rising  action  those  ele- 
ments in  the  conflict  will  already  be  indicated  which 
at  the  crisis  are  to  come  into  prominence,  for  good  or 
evil,  as  the  chief  agents  in  bringing  about  the  cata- 
strophe. If  the  conflict  is  mainly  between  persons,  then 
the  first  part  of  the  play  should  familiarise  us  with  the 
characters  who  are  to  dominate  the  second  part  ;  if  it 
lies  mainly  in  the  mind  of  the  hero,  then  by  the  care- 
ful presentation  of  those  qualities  which  are  presently 
to  gain  control,  the  conduct  should  be  foreshadowed 
which  will  lead  him  to  happiness  or  disaster.  In  this  way 
the  foundations  of  the  subsequent  action  will  be  firmly 
laid  at  the  outset.  To  spring  a  fresh  force  upon  us 
without  warning  or  preparation — to  introduce  an 
entirely  new  character — to  bring  forward  interests  and 
motives  of  which  hitherto  no  hint  has  been  given — 
must,  save  in  very  exceptional  circumstances,  be 
pronounced  extremely  poor  art. 

Since  the  play  of  antagonistic  forces  cannot  go  on 
indefinitely,  every  dramatic  story  sooner  or 
later  reaches  a  stage  in  its  development  at 
which  the  balance  begins  to  incline  decisively  to  one 
or  the  other  side.     This  we  have  called  the  turning 
point  or  crisis  of  the  action.^ 

The  great  law  of  the  crisis  is  that  it  shall  be  the 
natural  and  logical  outcome  of  all  that  has  gone 
before  ;  which  means  that  we  shall  be  able  to  explain 

1  As  the  movement  of  any  plot  resolves  itself  under  analysis  into  a 
series  of  crises,  the  real  turning  point  should  strictly  speaking  be  de- 
scribed as  the  chief  crisis.  But  no  serious  objection  can  be  urged  against 
the  common  use  of  the  unqualified  word. 


278  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUKE 

it  completely  by  reference  to  the  characters  and  to  the 
condition  of  things  existing  at  the  time.  An  event 
which  is  to  determine  the  whole  course  of  the  action 
to  its  catastrophe  should  thus  arise  out  of  the 
action  itself ;  it  should  not,  like  the  death  of 
the  French  king  in  Lovers  Labour  s  Lost^  be  a  mere 
accident  thrown  into  the  plot  from  the  outside. 
Provided  that  this  law  be  obeyed,  the  treatment  of  the 
crisis  may  be  allowed  to  vary  according  to  circum- 
stances. It  may  often  be  made  emphatic  by  being 
condensed  into  a  single  incident  or  group  of  incidents, 
which  moreover  may  perhaps  be  attended  by  accessories 
which  will  serve  to  accentuate  the  importance  of  what 
is  occurring  ;  as  in  the  Capitol  scene  in  Julius  Ccssar 
and  the  Banquet  scene  in  Macbeth,  Such  concentra- 
tion and  emphasis,  however,  are  not  by  any  means 
necessary.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  certainly  requisite 
that  the  critical  change  in  the  movement  of  events 
shall  be  made  so  clear  that  no  doubt  shall  be  left  in 
our  minds  as  to  its  significance.  This,  as  we  have 
already  noted,  is  the  weakness  of  Antony  and  Cleopatra 
— it  has  no  well-defined  crisis ;  for  Antony's  relapse, 
instead  of  being  exhibited  in  one  powerful  scene  as  a 
final  choice  of  passion  before  honour,  is  spread  over  a 
number  of  minor  scenes,  which  do  not  arrest  our 
attention,  and  the  essential  point  of  which  is  lost  amid 
masses  of  unessential  detail. 

Though  the  aim  of  many  modern  playwrights  seems 
to  be  to  postpone  the  crisis  as  long  as  possible,  the 
practice  of  our  older  stage  was  to  place  it  somewhere 
about  the  middle  of  the  action,  perhaps,  generally,  a 
little  beyond  this.  In  Shakespeare's  plays  it  is 
commonly  to  be  sought  towards  the  close  of  the  third 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  279 

act,  or  quite  early  in  the  fourth.  Thus,  as  has  already 
been  pointed  out,  in  Macbeth  it  occurs  in  III.  i.,  where 
with  the  escape  of  Fleance  and  the  appearance  of 
Banquo's  ghost  begins  the  tragic  reversal  of  Macbeth's 
fortunes  ;  in  Othello,  in  IV.  i.,  where  the  Moor  is  finally 
convinced  of  his  wife's  infidelity  ;  in  Julius  Ccesar,  in 
III.  i.,  the  scene  of  Caesar's  death  ;  whilst  in  King  Lear ^ 
a  singular  and  perplexing  exception  to  the  Shake- 
spearean rule,  the  crisis  of  the  main-plot,  "  instead  of 
standing  in  the  centre  of  the  composition  .  .  .  stands 
almost  at  the  beginning."  ^ 

The  crisis  past,  we  enter  upon   that  portion  of  the 
play  in  which  the  dramatic  conflict  is  to  be 
brought  to  its  conclusion.     The  conduct  of   Action  or 
this  denouement  will  depend  upon  the  answer    ^^^o^e- 
to  the  question  whether  the  play  is  to  have  a 
happy  or  an  unhappy  ending.      In  comedy  it  will  take 
the  form  of  the  gradual  withdrawal  of  the  obstacles, 
the   clearing  away   of  the  difficulties   and   misunder- 
standings, by  which  the  wishes  of  the  hero  and  heroine 
have  been  thwarted  and  their  good  fortune  jeopardised. 
In  tragedy,  on  the  contrary,  its  essence  will  consist  in 

^  Thomas  R.  Price,  King  Lear :  A  Study  of  Shakespeare^ s  Dramatic 
Method,  in  Publications  of  the  Modern  Language  Association  of  America, 
1894.  Mr  Price  says  : — *'  There  is  a  protasis  of  only  34  Hnes,  followed  at 
once  by  the  opening  of  the  action  in  I.  i.  35-81.  This  opening  of 
action,  contained  in  47  lines,  is  in  reality  the  only  epitasis  that  the 
drama  contains.  Then  comes,  in  58  lines,  the  climax  itself.  Lear,  mis- 
led by  the  false  ardour  of  Goneril  and  Regan,  and  by  the  apparent  cold- 
ness of  Cordelia,  gave  his  kingdom  to  them,  and  reserved  for  her  only 
his  curse.  At  this  point,  the  138th  line  of  the  first  scene,  the  climax  of 
the  action  is  fully  reached,  and  the  fate  of  Lear  determined.  By  this 
arrangement,  unprecedented,  as  I  believe,  in  dramatic  art,  all  the  re- 
mainder of  the  tragedy  ...  is  thrown  together  into  one  huge 
catabasis." 


28o  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

the  removal  of  those  resisting  elements  which  have 
held  the  power  of  evil  in  check,  and  in  the  consequent 
setting  free  of  that  power  to  work  out  its  own  will. 
In  any  case,  what  remains  after  the  crisis  is  the 
development  of  the  new  movement  which  has  arisen 
out  of  it ;  and  to  the  extent  to  which  we  now  foresee, 
more  or  less  distinctly,  the  outcome  of  events,  our 
interest  will  be  different  in  kind  from  that  which  had 
been  excited  during  the  earlier  stages  of  the  action. 
Hitherto,  we  have  watched  the  plot  with  growing 
uncertainty  and  suspense ;  now,  uncertainty  and 
suspense  being  largely  set  at  rest,  our  interest  will  be 
due  in  part  to  that  sympathy  with  the  characters 
which  makes  us  desirous  of  following  their  story  to  its 
very  close,  in  part  to  the  dramatist's  skill  in  the  treat- 
ment of  the  incidents  by  which  the  anticipated  results 
are  to  be  accomplished. 

The  special  difficulty  of  the  denouement  is  now 
apparent.  The  problem  of  the  dramatist  will  always 
be,  how  to  keep  the  interest  alive  after  the  spectators 
have  become  aware  that  the  resolution  has  begun,  and 
that  the  current  of  events  has  definitely  set  in  towards 
a  certain  catastrophe.  We  can  now  understand  why 
Fielding  anathematised  "  the  man  who  invented  fifth 
acts,"  and  why,  as  we  have  already  noted,  the  tendency 
with  many  modern  playwrights  is  to  extend  the  rising 
action  and  reduce  the  resolution  to  their  utmost 
possible  limits.  Mere  power  in  the  handling  of  the 
necessary  material  is  now  the  chief  point  to  consider  ; 
as  in  the  case  of  Shakespeare's  great  tragedies,  in 
which,  despite  our  clear  premonition  of  the  upshot  of 
things,  the  interest  continues  to  increase  in  intensity 
to  the  very  last.      An  expedient  frequently  adopted  to 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  281 

sustain  interest  in  the  second  part  of  a  play  is  worthy 
of  particular  attention.  It  is  that  of  delaying  the 
catastrophe  by  the  interposition  of  events  which 
interrupt  the  progress  of  the  falling  action  and  thus 
serve  temporarily  to  revive  uncertainty  and  suspense. 
In  comedy  this  is  often  done  by  the  employment  of 
various  unexpected  obstacles  which  check  the  happy 
course  of  things  ;  in  tragedy,  by  suggestions  that  a 
way  of  escape  for  the  hero  and  heroine  may  yet  open 
up,  and  the  fate  that  awaits  them  be  averted.  In 
Much  Ado  about  Nothings  for  example,  the  plot 
against  Hero  is  discovered  in  time  for  its  complete 
frustration,  but  a  fresh  difficulty  arises  through  the 
failure  of  the  watchmen  to  give  Leonato  information 
of  it  before  he  leaves  for  the  wedding  ceremony.  In 
Antigone  we  are  led  for  a  moment  to  hope  that 
Creon's  order  to  release  the  maiden  from  her  cave- 
prison  may  not  be  too  late.  Edmund's  revocation  of 
his  command  that  Lear  and  Cordelia  shall  be  put  to 
death  has  something  of  the  same  effect.  A  great 
effect  in  the  falling  action  of  Romeo  and  Juliet  is 
attained  when  it  seems  at  least  possible  that  success 
may  yet  crown  the  Friar's  plans.  This  sudden  flash 
of  light  amid  the  fast  gathering  gloom  is  not  only 
poignantly  dramatic  in  itself;  it  also  intensifies  the 
darkness  which  follows. 

We  now  come  to  the  ultimate  stage  of  the  plot,  in 
which  the  dramatic  conflict  is  brought  to  an  catas- 
issue  on  which  the  imagination  is  willing  trophe  or 
to  rest  with  a  sense  of  finality  and  complete-  ^^^^^^^^o^- 
ness.  In  modern  plays,  as  in  modern  novels,  we 
have  often  indeed  "  a  conclusion  in  which  nothing  is 
concluded  " — in  which  we  are  left,  as  Tennyson  once 


282  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

complained,  poised  on  the  crest  of  a  wave  which  does 
not  break.  Critical  advocates  of  extreme  realism 
defend  this  inconclusiveness  on  the  ground  that  the 
drama  and  fiction  should  be  true  to  life,  and  in  life 
there  is  no  such  thing  as  an  "  end,"  since  every 
situation  contains  within  itself  the  germ  of  fresh 
activities.  In  one  sense,  this  view  is  of  course  correct  ; 
as  a  resting-place  for  the  imagination  nothing  can  be 
more  purely  conventional,  for  instance,  than  the 
marriage  upon  which  the  curtain  falls  in  the  vast 
majority  of  comedies.  Yet  against  this  doctrinaire 
contention  it  may  surely  be  urged  that  while  experi- 
ence is  undoubtedly  continuous,  any  series  of  incidents 
selected  out  of  it  for  dramatic  treatment  may  be 
traced  from  a  real  beginning  to  a  fairly  definite,  if  only 
temporary,  close  ;  that  imagination  does  in  fact  conceive 
any  such  series  as  a  detached  and  self-existent  whole  ; 
and  that  while  in  real  life,  as  we  are  all  well  aware,  no 
record  is  ever  completed,  and  the  last  term  of  one  series 
is  only  the  starting-point  of  the  next,  art,  on  the  other 
hand,  may  justly  claim  as  part  of  its  privilege  of 
selection  and  arrangement  the  right  to  adopt  the 
convention  of  the  "  end."  These  matters  belong, 
however,  to  theory  only.  It  is  certain  that  in  practice 
we  all  of  us  instinctively  demand  a  catastrophe  in 
which  all  the  lines  of  the  story  are  gathered  together 
and  no  loose  threads  are  left. 

It  is  usual  to  distinguish  between  the  two  chief 
kinds  of  drama — comedy  and  tragedy — by  reference  to 
the  nature  of  the  catastrophe  :  the  one  having  a  happy, 
the  other  an  unhappy,  ending.  There  are  many 
plays,  however,  in  which,  as  in  the  tragi-comedy 
of  our  older  stage  and  in  our   modern   melodramas, 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  283 

the  interest  of  the  plot  is  largely  tragic,  though  at  the 
last  the  Fates  smile  on  most  of  the  good  characters. 
Moreover,  whether  the  catastrophe  be  in  the  main 
unhappy  or  happy,  it  may  be  qualified  in  various 
ways.  In  tragedy  the  darkness  may  be  somewhat 
broken  by  a  suggestion  that  virtue  has  not  suffered 
nor  good  been  overcome  in  vain ;  while  into  the 
general  rejoicing  of  a  comedy-close  an  element  of 
pathos  may  be  introduced  by  the  undeserved  mis- 
fortune or  unrequited  affection  of  some  one  among 
the  persons  of  the  drama  in  whom  our  sympathetic 
interest  has  been  specially  aroused.  Thus,  for 
example,  in  Romeo  and  Juliet  our  sorrow  is  to  some 
extent  mitigated  when  we  realise  that  the  family 
hatred  which  has  been  the  ruin  of  love  is  at  length 
conquered  by  the  love  which  it  has  destroyed  ;  while 
in  Beaumont  and  Fletcher's  Philaster  a  tender  touch 
is  given  to  the  final  scene  by  the  faithful  and  charming 
Euphrasia's  hopeless  passion  for  the  hero.^  It  will 
also  be  understood  that,  though  a  happy  close 
necessitates  the  discomfiture  of  evil,  such  discomfiture 
may  be  managed  in  accordance  with  one  or  the  other 
of  two  opposed  principles.  Evil  may  be  foiled  and 
delivered  over  to  the  fate  which  it  deserves  ;  as  in 
The  Merchant  of  Venice  and  Much  Ado  \  or  it  may  be 
turned  to  good  and  caught  up  in  the  general  harmony 
of  forgiveness  and  reconciliation,  as  in  -^.y  You  Like  It 
and  The  Tempest. 

What  has  been  said  about  the  crisis  must  now  be 
repeated  with  reference  to  the  catastrophe — whatever 

^  Compare  the  use  which  Dickens  makes  of  Smike  in  Nicholas 
Nickleby,  and,  even  more  particularly,  of  Tom  Pinch,  in  Martin 
Chuzzlewit. 


\ 


284  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

form  it  takes,  it  must  obey  the  great  law  of  causality, 
and  thus  satisfy  us  as  the  natural  and  logical  outcome 
of  the  forces  which  have  been  at  work  during  the 
entire  action.  This  law  was  explicitly  stated  by 
Aristotle  when  he  wrote :  "  It  is  therefore  evident 
that  the  unravelling  of  the  plot,  no  less  than  its  com- 
plication, must  arise  out  of  the  plot  itself;  it  must  not 
be  brought  about  by  the  Dens  ex  Machina.  Within 
the  action  there  must  be  nothing  irrational."  ^  Any 
ending  which  does  not  grow  inevitably  out  of  the 
characters  and  the  action,  but  which  is  of  the  nature 
of  an  accident  introduced  from  the  outside,  is  therefore 
to  be  pronounced  defective.  To  the  large  class  of 
such  merely  arbitrary  solutions  belongs  the  device 
mentioned  by  Aristotle  and  so  frequently  employed 
by  Euripides — that  of  the  "  god  out  of  the  machine," 
who,  at  the  required  moment,  was  brought  upon  the 
scene  to  secure  that  conclusion  which,  though  really 
alien  from  the  dramatist's  treatment  of  his  story,  was 
none  the  less  prescribed  by  tradition.  Parallels  to 
this  may  occasionally  be  found  in  the  modern  drama 
when  some  powerful  external  agency  is  invoked  to  cut 
the  knot  which  the  playwright  is  unable  or  too  impatient 
to  untie ;  as  in  the  interposition  of  the  King  to 
accomplish  the  overthrow  of  the  hypocrite  in  Moliere*s 
Le  Tar  tuff e.  In  modern  plays  the  fortuitous  element 
assumes  a  number  of  forms  ;  as  when  the  villain  is 
removed  by  a  timely  accident,  or  a  lost  will  turns  up, 
or  an  uncle,  long  reported  dead,  proves  to  be  very 
much  alive.  But  perhaps  the  commonest  kind  of 
arbitrary  conclusion  is  that  which  depends  upon  a 
sudden  and  incredible  change  of  heart  in  one  of  the 

1  Poeticsy  XV. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  285 

persons  of  the  drama.  Here  we  have  to  re-emphasise 
another  great  law,  to  which  allusion  was  made  in  our 
chapter  on  prose  fiction — the  law  of  the  conservation 
of  character.^  Conspicuous  illustrations  of  the  trans- 
gression of  this  law  will  be  found  in  The  Two 
Gentlemen  of  Verona  and  As  You  Like  it. 

It  should,  however,  be  added  that  in  plays  in  which 
the  handling  of  life  is  relatively  light  and  superficial, 
it  would  be  impertinent  to  insist  too  rigorously  upon 
the  application  of  the  foregoing  principles.  The 
dramatist  may  be  justified,  therefore,  when  working  in 
the  mood  of  comedy,  in  devising  a  conclusion  by 
contrivances  which,  in  the  mood  of  tragedy,  he  would 
never  dream  of  employing.  Considerable  latitude 
may  thus  be  granted  to  the  writer  of  comedy  even  in 
the  treatment  of  the  logic  of  motive  and  passion. 
This  qualification  has  also  ethical  bearings  which  it  is 
important  to  keep  well  in  mind,  since  the  closing  scenes 
in  comedy  are  by  no  means  bound  to  possess  that 
moral  weight  and  significance  which  of  necessity 
belongs  to  the  catastrophe  in  any  serious  drama. 
Thus,  while  the  character  of  Claudio  in  Much  Ado 
must,  undoubtedly,  always  remain  an  ugly  blot  upon 
an  otherwise  delightful  play,  his  marriage  at  the  end 
to  the  girl  he  has  so  foully  wronged  must  not  be 
criticised  in  that  strenuous  spirit  in  which  it  is  often 
discussed.  After  all,  notwithstanding  the  pathetic 
interest  of  its  central  theme.  Much  Ado  is  only  light 
comedy,  and  for  the  purposes  of  such  a  piece  it  is 
enough  that  each  Jack  shall  have  his  Jill,  and  that  the 
curtain  shall  fall  with  a  promise  of  wedding  bells.  To 
enforce  moral  standards  and  to  indulge  in  the  refine- 

^  See  ante,  p.  202,  note  i. 


286  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

ments  of  over-curious  scholastic  interpretation  in  such 
a  case  as  this  is,  therefore,  more  than  a  trifle  absurd. 
We  are  in  fact  satisfied,  and  we  have  a  perfect  right 
to  be  satisfied,  in  a  play  of  this  description,  with  a 
certain  laxity  of  moral  treatment  which  we  should  at 
once  resent  in  a  drama  which  purported  to  grapple 
seriously  with  life's  deeper  realities.  We  can  now 
understand  why,  as  Canon  Beeching  has  well  pointed 
out,  roguery  is  dealt  with  by  Shakespeare  in  one  way 
when  it  is  found  in  the  world  of  pure  comedy,  and  in 
another  and  quite  different  way  when  it  is  entangled 
with  the  moral  issues  of  actual  life.  "  In  The  Merry 
Wives  of  Windsor^  Falstaff,  notwithstanding  his 
enormities — and  Shakespeare  needs  all  the  excuse  of 
a  Royal  Command  for  the  way  he  has  degraded  him — 
meets  no  further  punishment  than  the  jeers  of  his 
would-be  victims  ;  it  is  sufficient  in  comedy  that  faults 
should  be  judged  by  laughter.  Nobody  wants  Sir 
Toby  put  on  the  black  list  as  a  tippler,  or  Autolycus 
sent  to  gaol  for  filching  linen  from  the  hedges.  But 
when  the  world  of  comedy  touches  the  real  world,  as  in 
Henry  IV.  and  Henry  V.,  social  offences  have  to  meet 
social  punishment,  and  so  we  have  not  only  Falstaff 
exiled  from  court  and  dying  of  a  broken  heart,  but 
poor  Nym  and  Bardolph  hanged  for  stealing  in  the 
wars."  1 

In  concluding  this  brief  survey  of  the  natural  divisions 

of  plot  in  the  drama,  I  would  ask  the  reader 
general  to  remember  several  things.  In  the  first  place, 
consider-     go  formal  an  analysis  must  necessarily  give  to 

the  principles  of  dramatic  structure  an  appear- 
ance of  simplicity  which  is  in  fact  rather  delusive.      In 

^   William  Shakespeare,  p.  loi 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  287 

our  study  of  any  play,  therefore,  we  must  never  expect 
to  find  that  the  various  points  of  the  dramatic  line  will 
be  as  distinctly  marked  and  as  easily  detected  as  our 
abstract  statement  might  lead  us  to  suppose.  Secondly, 
there  are  types  of  play  which  do  not  exactly  correspond 
with  the  plan  outlined.  In  many  comedies  of  intrigue, 
for  example,  as  in  Massinger's  A  New  Way  to  Pay  Old 
Debts,  and  works  of  the  same  general  class,  the  main 
interest  of  the  plot  is  provided  by  the  efforts  by  which 
the  intriguer  gradually  overcomes  all  difficulties  and 
achieves  complete  success,  and  in  such  cases  the  diagram- 
matic representation  would  have  to  take  the  form,  not 
of  a  pyramid,  but  of  an  irregularly  ascending  line. 
Moreover,  there  are  modern  dramatists,  like  Henry 
Becque  and  Gerhart  Hauptmann,  who,  in  their  anxiety 
to  escape  convention  and  to  exemplify  the  principles 
of  naturalism,  deliberately  disregard  the  formulas  of 
what  the  French  critics  used  to  call  the  "  well-made " 
play.  Finally,  it  is  often  quite  possible  to  interpret 
the  dramatic  movement  of  any  play  in  various  different 
ways  according  to  the  particular  point  of  view  which 
we  chose  to  adopt  in  regard  to  it.  Thus,  in  Macbeth, 
it  is  usual  to  place  the  crisis,  as  we  have  said,  in  III.  i., 
the  scene  which  marks  the  turn  in  Macbeth's  outward 
fortunes.  But  if  we  look  rather  at  the  spiritual  signifi- 
cance of  the  tragedy  than  at  its  plot,  we  may  with 
perfect  justice  contend  that  the  real  crisis  is  reached  at 
the  moment  when  Macbeth,  yielding  to  the  evil  in  his 
own  nature  and  to  the  solicitations  of  the  witches, 
definitely  commits  himself  to  a  career  of  crime,  and 
that  the  subsequent  deterioration  of  his  character  from 
this  point  onward,  and  not  his  external  ruin,  constitutes 
the   true   falling   action.     Similarly   with   King  Lear, 


288  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Here  we  have  accepted  Mr  Price's  view  that  the  crisis 
arises  with  the  king's  division  of  his  kingdom.  But  it 
is  much  more  usual  to  put  it,  with  Freytag,  in  the 
hovel  scene  in  the  fourth  act. 

These  illustrations  will  suffice  to  show  that  our 
interpretation  of  a  play  is  not  to  be  governed  by  hard 
and  fast  mechanical  rules. 


A  few  outstanding  features  of  structural  design  have 

still  to  be  considered,  which  are  too  important 

features  of  to  be  omitted  even  from  a  mere  introductory 

dramatic     study  of  dramatic  art. 

Among  these,  the  first  place  must  be  given 

to  the  principles  of  Parallelism  and  Contrast. 

Parallelism  is  a  familiar  element  in  the  composition 

of   plot,    especially   in   the   form    of  the  re- 
Parallelism.         r-      »        r-  j 

duplication  of  motives.     An  excellent  effect 

is  often  obtained  when  the  central  idea  of  one  part  of 

the  action  reappears  in  another  part  of  it,  and  each 

is  thus    made  to   illustrate    and  reinforce    the    other. 

Shakespeare   was    much  addicted  to  this    practice   of 

repetition.     Sometimes    he    adopts    it    for    the    mere 

purpose  of  further  complicating  the  dramatic  interest 

of  his  story.      Thus,  e.g.^  in  The  Comedy  of  Errors,  he 

adds   to   the   confusion   which  he   had    found   in   the 

Menaechmi   of   Plautus   by    providing   the    two    twin 

brothers  with  two  slaves  who  are  also  twins  and  also 

indistinguishable  in  appearance;  while  in  his  version 

of  the  imbroglio  of  the  rings  in  The  Merchant  of  Venice 

he  gives  us  two  rings  instead  of  the  one  which    had 

figured  in  the  original  story  in  //  Pecorone.     Sometimes, 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  289 

however,  the  repetition  is  not  used  merely  to  complicate 
the  action  and  so  increase  its  theatrical  effectiveness, 
but  rather  to  draw  its  diverse  materials  together  into 
an  organic  whole.  In  Much  Ado,  for  example, 
Shakespeare  set  out  to  dramatise  a  borrowed  story  in 
which  a  pair  of  lovers  were  driven  apart  by  an  evil 
trick  ;  with  this  story  he  finds  it  necessary  to  combine 
an  under-plot ;  and  he  invents  one  in  which  there  are 
also  two  lovers  (at  all  events,  potential  lovers)  who  are 
brought  together  by  a  merry  trick.  The  idea  of 
trickery,  in  the  one  case  for  evil,  in  the  other  for  good, 
is  thus  used  to  fuse  two  stories  which  otherwise  stand 
in  the  sharpest  contrast.  But  the  most  extraordinary 
example  of  parallelism  in  the  Shakespearean  drama  is 
that  which  is  presented  by  King  Lear,  the  two  plots 
of  which  correspond  in  almost  every  detail.  In  this 
play,  the  dramatist  worked  upon  two  narratives  derived 
from  widely  different  sources.  '*  In  the  one  story, 
there  was  the  father  deceived  in  the  character  of  his 
daughters,  and  finding  love  only  in  that  one  whose 
love  he  had  denied  and  spurned.  In  the  other  story, 
there  was  the  father  deceived  in  the  character  of  his 
sons,  and  finding  allegiance  and  affection  only  in  him 
that  he  had  sought  to  destroy  as  assassin  and  parricide. 
Thus,  in  the  two  stories,  along  with  their  antithetical 
difference,  there  was  an  almost  artificial  symmetry  of 
plan  and  movement.  And  so,  in  the  mind  of  the 
poet,  at  some  happy  moment  of  stimulated  creative 
power,  the  two  stories,  coming  from  regions  and  times 
so  different,  and  so  completely  independent,  flashed 
together,  as  capable  of  so  supplementing  each  other,  as 
to  merge  in  one  great  movement  of  tragical  emotion."  ^ 

^  Thomas  R.  Price,  loc,  cit, 
T 


290  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

In  such  cases  of  parallelism,  in  which  we  have,  as  it 
were,  a  series  of  variations  upon  a  single  theme,  the 
repetition  of  motive  provides  the  real  bond  of  con- 
nection between  the  different  parts  of  a  play,  and  thus 
secures  a  kind  of  moral  unity.  This  is  exemplified 
again  in  A  Midsummer  Nights  Dream.  In  this 
comedy,  as  the  commentators  have  pointed  out,  a 
common  motive  seems  to  be  furnished  by  the  idea  of 
love  as  a  lawless  power,  by  which  friendship  is  broken, 
and  girls  are  inspired  to  rebellion  against  their  parents, 
and  lovers  are  led  into  strange  inconstancy,  and  even 
the  Queen  of  the  Fairies  is  made  the  victim  of  a 
monstrous  infatuation.  Many  other  illustrations  of 
such  unification  through  repetition  will  be  found  in  the 
Shakespearean  drama. 

Occasionally  parallelism  is  employed  for  the  purposes 
of  burlesque  ;  in  other  words,  the  repetition  of  motive 
is  introduced  in  the  way  of  ridicule.  Such  burlesque 
parallelism  was  a  singular  feature  of  the  Spanish  drama 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  in  which  the  gracioso,  or 
valet — the  recognised  "  funny  man  "  of  the  stage — was 
often  specially  entrusted  with  the  task  of  parodying  the 
high-flown  sentiments,  the  flamboyant  language,  and 
the  romantie  actions,  of  his  master.  A  ludicrous  ex- 
ample may  be  cited  from  one  of  the  best  known  of  the 
Spanish  plays — El  Mdgico  Prodigioso  {The  Wonder- 
working  Magician)  of  Calderon.  The  main  plot  of  this 
curious  drama  shows  how  Cipriano,  to  obtain  possession 
of  Justina,  sells  himself  to  the  Devil,  to  whom  he  gives 
a  contract  signed  in  the  blood  which  he  draws  from 
his  own  arm.  In  all  this  he  is  aped  by  his  servant 
Clarin,  who,  with  much  absurd  mock-heroic  talk,  also 
sells  himself  to  the  Devil  for  the  sake  of  the  "  cruel 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  291 

Libia,"  and  that  he,  too,  may  sign  the  compact  in  his 
own  blood  strikes  his  nose  and  makes  it  bleed.  It 
would  probably  be  difficult  to  discover  any  instances 
of  so  crude  a  sort  of  parody  as  this  in  our  English 
drama,  unless  it  be  in  the  so-called  "  comic  "  scenes 
in  Marlowe's  Doctor  Faustus.  But  in  subtler  forms 
burlesque  parallelism  has  from  time  to  time  been 
employed  by  our  playwrights  with  telling  results.  It 
is  occasionally  employed  by  Shakespeare;  as,  for 
example,  in  the  Silvius-Phoebe  and  Corin-Audrey 
episodes  va  As  You  Like  It,  and  even  more  distinctly 
in  Bottom's  interlude  in  A  Midsummer  Nights  Dream^ 
which,  travestying  as  it  does  the  central  motive  of  the 
main  action,  completes  the  series  of  variations  con- 
tained in  it  upon  the  underlying  theme — the  lawless 
power  of  love. 

Far  more  important,  however,  than  parallelism  as 
an  element  in  dramatic  design  is  the  principle 
of  contrast.  As  this  principle  inheres  indeed 
in  the  very  nature  of  conflict — as  it  must  be  involved 
in  any  clash  of  opposed  persons,  or  passions,  or 
interests — it  belongs  of  necessity  to  the  very  substance 
of  every  dramatic  story.  But  contrast  in  the  drama 
takes  so  many  different  forms,  and  is  employed  in  such 
a  large  variety  of  ways,  that  a  comprehensive  discussion 
of  it  would  require  a  separate  treatise.  Here  we  must 
confine  ourselves  to  a  few  of  its  simpler  and  more 
common  uses. 

Of  its  primary  manifestation  as  one  of  the  jonstitu- 

ents  of  every  plot,  little  needs  to  be  said  ; 

u  1       ^  .        .  .     '    In  Plot, 

it  IS  enough  merely  to  recognise  in  passing 

that  some  antithesis  will  always  be  found  between  the 

good   and   evil,  or  the   "  sympathetic "   and  "  unsym- 


292  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

pathetic  "  sides  of  the  action  ;  and,  specifically,  among 
the  characters  and  groups  of  characters  by  whom  these 
different  sides  are  respectively  represented.  But  one 
particular  aspect  of  this  elementary  distinction  perhaps 
calls  for  notice,  and  this  is  the  contrast  between  the 
growth  of  the  action  and  its  final  stages  of  resolution 
and  catastrophe.  Whether  a  play  begins  happily  and 
ends  in  disaster,  or  begins  with  a  struggle  and  ends 
in  success,  the  difference  in  tone  and  spirit  between 
the  opening  and  closing  parts  is  likely  to  be  more  or 
less  clearly  marked.  This  is  perhaps  especially  true 
of  tragedy,  in  which  the  gloom  which  gathers  about 
us  as  the  plot  proceeds  is  intensified  by  the  sunshine 
which  we  have  only  just  left  behind.  So  important 
indeed  is  this  change  as  a  factor  in  the  heightening  of 
tragic  effect  that  a  dramatist  will  often,  in  one  way  or 
another,  throw  stress  upon  it.  Even  ^Eschylus,  who 
was  hardly  a  playwright  in  the  modern  sense  of  the 
term,  was  alive  to  the  value  of  this  form  of  contrast, 
and  carefully  prepared  for  the  fall  of  Agamemnon  by 
a  preliminary  picture  of  his  greatness  and  glory  in  the 
hour  of  his  happy  return  from  Troy.  So,  too,  the 
pitiful  fate  of  Sophocles'  CEdipus  is  rendered  more 
pitiful  by  the  skill  with  which  in  the  opening  scenes 
we  are  impressed  by  the  fine  qualities  of  his  character, 
the  esteem  in  which  he  is  held  by  his  people,  his 
kingly  state  and  self-confidence.  In  our  first  acquaint- 
ance with  Macbeth  enough  is  told  us  of  the  nobler 
possibilities  of  his  nature  to  enhance  the  significance 
of  the  ultimate  triumph  of  evil  and  the  spiritual  ruin 
which  this  entails.  The  gay  and  sportive  preliminaries 
in  Romeo  and  Juliet^  and  the  scenes  of  lyric  passion 
which    immediately    follow,    add     immensely    to    the 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  293 

pathos  of  the  heart-rending  close,  for  the  memory  of 
them  lingers  with  us  as  we  gaze  into  the  tomb  where 
the  young  lovers  lie  clasped  in  death,  and  instinctively 
we  look  upon  this  picture  and  on  that ;  while  Othello's 
absolute  confidence  in  Desdemona,  and  the  utter  happi- 
ness which  each  has  found  in  each,  constitutes  an 
admirable  prelude  to  the  awful  crash  which  is  soon 
to  come.  Ibsen  frequently  utilises,  and  with  wonderful 
effect,  this  principle  of  contrast,  for  he  opens  several 
of  his  plays  {e.g,^  An  Enemy  of  the  People  and  Rosmers- 
holm)  at  a  moment  of  calm  and  peace  just  before  the 
bursting  of  a  great  storm. 

Contrast  as  an  element  of  plot-design  is,  however, 
by  no  means  confined  to  this  difference  between  the 
rising  and  falling  actions.  It  is  often  most  clearly 
presented  in  the  difference  in  character  (other,  I  mean, 
than  that  between  good  and  evil)  between  the  different 
materials  which  enter  into  the  composition  of  a  play. 
We  are  all  familiar  with  this  kind  of  contrast  in  our 
romantic  drama  in  the  humorous  relief,  which  indeed 
sometimes  assumes  the  proportions  of  a  regular  comic 
under-plot,  which  is  frequently  introduced  amid  the 
serious  or  tragic  interests  of  the  main  action.  In  the 
balancing  of  plots  in  a  compound  play,  contrast 
frequently  combines  with  parallelism,  as  in  several  of 
the  examples  of  parallelism  given  above.  In  Much 
Ado,  for  instance,  while  the  Hero-Claudio  and  Beatrice- 
Benedick  actions  correspond  in  motive,  there  is,  as 
we  have  pointed  out,  the  greatest  difference  between 
them  in  tone.  In  the  same  comedy  the  successful  use 
of  contrasted  parallelism  is  delightfully  illustrated  by 
the  way  in  which  the  Beatrice-Benedick  action  and  the 
Dogberry  episodes  are  set  off  against  each  other,  since 


294  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

the  fun  depends  upon  two  opposite  kinds  of  effect — 
in  the  one  case,  upon  brilliant,  daring,  intellectual  wit ; 
in  the  other,  upon  blundering  stupidity,  muddle- 
headedness,  and  ignorant  verbosity.  Contrast,  more- 
over, often  appears  in  the  evolution  of  the  plot,  and 
in  the  arrangement  or  articulation  of  the  successive 
scenes.  In  the  romantic  drama,  with  its  blend  of  the 
serious  and  the  comic,  it  is  often  emphasised  by 
rapid  and  sudden  transitions  from  the  one  to  the 
other. 

Enough  has  now  been  said  to  indicate  the  many- 
sided  interest  of  contrast  in  the  structure  of  a  dramatic 
plot.  It  must,  however,  be  remembered  that,  like  all 
other  artistic  principles,  this,  too,  is  liable  to  abuse ; 
and  that,  just  because  its  place  and  value  are  so 
obvious,  it  is  in  fact  very  frequently  overdone  or 
injudiciously  employed.  To  lay  down  any  abstract 
rule  for  guidance  in  such  a  matter  is,  indeed,  im- 
possible, for  each  case  will  have  to  be  judged  on  its 
own  merits.  Keeping  to  general  terms  we  can  only 
say  that  when,  under  any  of  its  aspects,  contrast 
impresses  us  as  forced  or  mechanical,  when  its  suggests 
"  theatrical  "  over-emphasis  and  a  striving  after  sensa- 
tional effect,  or  when  it  is  of  such  a  nature  that  the 
harmony  of  the  plot-design  is  destroyed,  then,  certainly, 
it  must  be  condemned.  The  contrasts  of  the  Eliza- 
bethan drama,  while  they  strongly  appealed  to  the 
"  groundlings  "  of  the  time,  often  seem  to  us  crude  and 
violent,  and  we  frequently  have  the  same  feeling  in 
regard  to  those  of  modern  melodrama,  which  are 
devised  to  delight  the  gallery  rather  than  to  meet  the 
demands  of  critical  taste. 

Contrast    in   plot    of    course  implies    contrast    in 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  2^5 

characterisation,  and  this  introduces  us  to  another 
and  extremely  important  phase  of  our  sub-  inCharac- 
ject.  Merely  noting  that  it  is  under  this  terisation. 
head  that  we  have  to  include  that  inner  struggle  which 
often  occurs  between  opposed  passions  and  interests 
in  a  single  complex  and  paradoxical  nature,  we  have 
here  chiefly  to  remark  that  the  principle  of  contrast 
commonly  underlies  the  scheme  of  characters  in  any 
well-organised  play.  When  we  first  read  or  witness  a 
certain  drama,  we  are  perhaps  aware  only  of  the  fact 
that  its  story  is  carried  on  by  a  number  of  people  who 
are  interesting  in  themselves.  But  when  we  look  a 
little  more  closely  into  the  matter,  we  discover  that 
the  particular  qualities  of  each  individual  are 
accentuated,  and  his  motives  and  feelings  thrown  into 
sharper  relief,  through  his  relations  with  other 
individuals  of  unlike  qualities,  motives,  and  feelings, 
who  thus  act  continually  as  foils  to  him.  The 
character-scheme  of  any  play,  therefore,  deserves 
careful  study,  not  as  a  collection  of  individuals  only, 
but  as  a  scheme  ;  while  in  following  the  working  out  of 
a  plot  we  should  always  take  special  note  of  the  way  in 
which  the  principal  figures  are  brought  out  by  contrast 
with  those  among  whom  they  move.  With  dramatists 
of  all  times  and  schools  it  has  been  a  favourite 
practice  to  present  the  leading  persons  of  a  drama  as 
companion  studies.  A  very  early  instance  of  this  is 
to  be  found  in  the  two  sisters  in  the  Antigone  of 
Sophocles.  This  method  was  much  used  by  Shakes- 
peare, who  indeed  hardly  ever  brings  two  characters 
into  intimate  connection  without  making  each  a  foil 
to  each.  Such  balanced  pairs  as  Romeo  and  Juliet, 
Beatrice    and    Benedick,    Prince    Hal    and    Hotspur, 


296  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Brutus  and  Cassius,  Macbeth  and  his  wife,  Othello 
and  lago,  Timon  and  Alcibiades,  will  at  once  occur 
to  every  reader  as  a  few  among  the  many  cases  in 
point.  But  this  bilateral  symmetry  is  only  a  first 
step  in  the  arrangement  of  a  character-scheme,  in 
which  careful  analysis  will  seldom  fail  to  reveal  a 
number  of  well-considered  contrasts  and  resemblances. 

Here,  again,  the  warning  against  abuse  must  be 
repeated.  The  balancing  of  characters,  like  the 
balancing  of  motives  and  incidents,  to  be  artistically 
satisfactory,  must  never  be  so  obvious  or  so  mechanical 
as  to  appear  unnatural.  Thus  it  is  because  it  is  at 
once  too  obvious  and  too  mechanical  that  we  take 
exception  to  the  contrast  between  Hermia  and  Helena 
in  A  Midsummer  Nights  Dream.  The  elaborate  and 
artificial  symmetry  which  governs  the  disposition  of  the 
characters  in  Shakespeare's  early  comedies  is  moreover 
clearly  a  mistake. 

One  service  to  which  the  principle  of  contrast  is 
Ethical  often  put  must  also  be  mentioned.  It  is 
use  of  often  expressly  used  to  illustrate  and 
on  ras .  ^xxioro.^  the  thesis  or  moral  purpose  of  a 
play  ;  the  different  aspects  of  the  subject  treated  being 
thus  presented  from  various  different  points  of  view. 
The  balancing  of  the  two  sisters  in  Antigone^  just 
referred  to,  has  evidently  something  of  this  moral 
significance.  The  contrast  between  Alceste  and 
Philinte  in  Moliere's  Le  Misanthrope,  and  that  between 
L^onor  and  Isabelle  in  the  same  writer's  LEcole  des 
Maris,  are  manifestiy  inspired  by  a  direct  ethical  aim. 
Again,  in  Lessing's  magnificent  didactic  drama  (which, 
as  a  didactic  drama,  may  safely  be  described  as  the 
greatest  thing  of  its  kind  in  all  literature) — Nathan 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  297 

der  Weise — the  whole  caste  of  characters,  from  the 
Patriarch  of  Jerusalem  at  one  end  of  the  scale  to  the 
Jew  himself  at  the  other,  is  most  skilfully  arranged  in 
a  delicately  graded  series  of  antitheses  to  bring  out 
the  author's  teaching  in  regard  to  tolerance  and  the 
essential  spirit  of  true  religion.  Shakespeare  re- 
peatedly uses  contrast  for  moral  as  well  as  dramatic 
effect.  The  appearance  of  Orlando  with  old  Adam  at 
the  close  of  the  melancholy  Jaques'  cynical  speech  on 
the  seven  ages  of  man  i^As  You  Like  It,  Act  II.  scene 
vii.)  is  evidently  not  an  accident.  If,  to  take  another 
illustration,  we  are  right  in  concluding  that  the  under- 
lying motive  of  A  Midsummer  Nighfs  Dream  is  that 
of  the  lawless  power  of  love,  then  we  can  see  how  this 
motive,  which  runs  through  the  main  story  and  the 
fairy  scenes,  and  is  burlesqued  in  the  handicraftsmen's 
play,  receives  additional  emphasis  from  the  contrast 
provided  by  the  framework  of  the  action,  with  its 
dignified  figures  of  Duke  Theseus  and  his  Amazonian 
bride,  and  its  fine  picture  of  their  mature  and  noble 
love.  When  contrast  is  thus  employed  for  ethical 
purposes,  exaggeration  is  not  only  artistically  unsatis- 
factory, but  also  morally  disastrous.  By  over-charging 
his  antithesis  between  the  English  and  the  French  in 
Henry  V.,  Shakespeare  has  really  defeated  the  very 
object  which  he  had  in  view — the  glorification  of  the 
triumph  of  English  arms  at  Agincourt. 

One  other  kind  of  contrast  remains  to  be  mentioned 
— that  to  which   the  name  Dramatic    Irony 
is  generally  given.     This  we  may  define,  in    ^^ooj^^^ 
the  broadest  sense,  as  the  contrast  between 
two  aspects  of  the  same  thing,  whether  such  contrast 
is   perceived   at  the  time   or  becomes  apparent  later. 


298  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEBATUEE 

In  critical  discussion  the  term  is  most  commonly  used 
to  express  the  effect  produced  when  there  is  a  marked 
and  significant  difference  in  the  meaning  of  what  is 
being  done  or  said  on  the  stage  for  the  characters 
themselves  on  the  one  hand  and  for  the  spectators  on 
the  other ;  and  this  difference  necessarily  arises  when- 
ever the  characters  act  or  speak  in  ignorance  of 
important  facts  of  which  meanwhile  the  spectators  are 
in  possession.  As  the  difference  may  turn  in  the 
main  either  on  action  or  on  utterance,  we  may  make 
a  formal  distinction  between  Irony  of  Situation  or 
Incident  and  Verbal  Irony,  though  in  practice  of 
course  these  are  often  found  in  combination.  A 
wonderful  example  of  the  irony  of  situation  is  fur- 
nished by  the  scene  at  the  close  of  the  Electra  of 
Sophocles,  when  iEgisthus  stands  beside  the  covered 
corpse  which  we  know  to  be  the  corpse  of  Clytaem- 
nestra,  though  he  believes  it  to  be  that  of  Orestes, 
while  Orestes  himself,  unrecognised  by  him,  bids  him 
withdraw  the  veil  and  disclose  the  face.  As  an 
illustration  of  the  same  kind  of  irony  in  the  Shake- 
spearean drama  we  may  take  the  scene  in  Henry  V. 
(Act  II.  scene  ii.)  in  which  the  conspiracy  against  the 
king  is  brought  to  light.  While  the  conspirators  are 
firmly  convinced  that  their  plot  is  a  secret,  we  on  the 
contrary  know  already  that  the  king  himself  is  fully 
aware  of  their  designs  ;  and  it  is  our  knowledge  of  this 
fact  which  gives  point  and  interest  to  every  detail  of 
the  interview  in  which  the  guilty  men,  led  on  by 
Henry,  step  by  step,  to  their  complete  self-condemna- 
tion, move  blindly  forward  to  the  fate  which  we  have 
foreseen  from  the  outset.  Again,  if  we  know  that  a 
certain  character  is  actually  trembling  on  the  brink  of 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  299 

terrible  disaster;  and  if,  at  that  critical  moment,  he 
none  the  less  appears  to  himself  to  occupy  a  position 
of  greatness  and  security,  and  proceeds  accordingly  to 
give  expression  to  feelings  of  pride,  or  safety,  or  self- 
confidence  {e.g.,  Richard  II.  Act  III.  scene  ii.;  Julius 
CcBsar,  Act  III.  scene  i.),  a  similar  effect  of  irony  is 
obtained.  In  these  cases,  in  which  the  tragic  sugges- 
tion inheres  in  the  person's  own  unconciousness  of 
what  we  know  to  be  his  real  situation,  dialogue 
evidently  plays  an  important  part  in  accentuating  the 
difference  between  his  point  of  view  and  ours.  But 
verbal  irony,  or  equivoke,  has  an  independent  value 
when  the  language  used  by  any  character,  though  in 
its  primary  sense  perfectly  natural  in  the  circumstances, 
possesses  at  the  same  time  for  the  audience  a  secondary 
meaning  and  application  which  sometimes  the  speaker 
himself  does  not  understand  ;  and  of  which,  at  any  rate, 
those  whom  he  addresses  are  entirely  ignorant.  It 
thus  arises  when,  in  the  words  of  Professor  Moulton 
previously  quoted,  "  ignorance  of  the  sequel  on  the 
part  of  the  personages  represented "  clashes  "  with 
knowledge  of  it  on  the  part  of  the  audience."  This 
species  of  irony  is  specially  characteristic  of  the  Greek 
drama.  As  the  plot  of  a  Greek  tragedy  was  not 
invented  by  the  poet,  but  was  drawn  by  him  from 
some  great  common  store-house  of  tradition,  local  or 
pan-hellenic,  its  main  outlines  at  least,  and  its  general 
course  and  issue,  must  have  been  familiar  to  all  who 
witnessed  its  representation,^  and  thus  continual  oppor- 

^  It  has  indeed  been  questioned  whether  Greek  audiences  were  always 
so  familiar  as  is  generally  supposed  with  the  legendary  stories  which  formed 
the  basis  of  the  great  Attic  tragedies  ;  but  in  respect  of  the  vast  majority 
of  the  audience,  at  all  erents,  the  statement  in  the  text  seems  to  me  in- 
controvertible.     It  should,  however,  be  remembered   that  considerable 


300  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

tunity  was  afforded  for  effective  contrast  between  the 
real  significance  of  events  as  understood  by  the 
spectators,  and  their  apparent  significance  as  regarded 
by  the  persons  taking  part  in  them.^  Of  this  oppor- 
tunity Sophocles  in  particular  availed  himself  to  the 
full,  as  notably  in  (Edipus  the  King — one  of  the  world's 
masterpieces  of  sustained  irony — the  dialogue  of  which 
is  packed  with  skilfully  devised  ambiguous  detail. 
When  the  dramatist  himself  deliberately  informs  us 
in  advance  of  facts  which  are  concealed  from  some  at 
least  of  the  leading  actors  in  his  story,  such  irony  again 
becomes  prominent.  Thus  the  scenes  in  Shakespeare's 
comedies,  in  which  (as  in  Iwelfth  Night  and  As  You 
Like  It)  the  heroine  appears  disguised  as  a  young 
man,  are  often  charged  with  equivoke,  both  the 
remarks  of  the  masquerading  girl  and  those  with 
whom  she   is  in   conversation  assuming   a   humorous 

freedom  was  granted  to  the  poet  in  the  treatment  of  his  material.  It  was 
open  to  him  to  select  any  one  of  the  often  numerous  variants  of  a  given 
story ;  and  that,  within  limits,  he  was  permitted  to  arrange  and  modify  its 
details  in  ways  which  best  accorded  with  his  design,  is  proved  not  only 
by  the  practice  of  the  dramatists  themselves,  but  also  by  the  precept  of 
Aristotle  that  "the  poet  must  himself  invent,  or  at  least  exercise  much 
skill  in  using  what  has  been  handed  down." 

^  The  following  passage  admirably  defines  the  vital  connection  between 
the  irony  of  Greek  tragedy,  and  that  spirit  of  fatalism  by  which  it  was  often 
pervaded  :  "The  purpose  of  Greek  tragedy,  in  its  highest  efforts,  was  in- 
consistent with  the  excitement  caused  by  curiosity.  The  favourite  and 
most  impressive  theme  of  the  old  tragic  poets  was  the  irony  of  destiny 
and  the  futility  of  human  wisdom.  To  exhibit  man  as  the  unconscious 
victim  of  fate,  boldly  advancing  on  his  own  destruction,  and  more  and 
more  confident  as  he  approaches  his  doom,  was  the  object  of  most  of  their 
greatest  dramas.  But  to  unfold  the  full  pathos  of  the  situation,  it  was 
necessary  to  lift  the  veil  from  the  eyes  of  the  spectators,  and  to  let  thern 
discern  clearly  the  dark  figure  of  destiny  in  the  background,  towards  which 
the  doomed  man  was  being  drawn  with  slow  but  certain  steps"  (Haigh's 
Tragic  Drama  of  the  Greeks^  p.  346). 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  301 

complexion  for  us  who  know,  as  the  characters  on  the 
stage  do  not,  her  sex  and  position.  Ironic  effect,  it 
should  also  be  noted,  does  not  necessarily  depend 
upon  elaboration.  Sometimes  a  mere  casual  phrase 
or  even  a  single  word  may  become  pregnant  with 
double  meaning.  Thus,  for  instance,  the  simple 
epithet  "honest,"  which  Othello  applies  to  the  fiend 
in  human  shape  who  is  already  busy  plotting  his  ruin, 
has  a  tragic  suggestiveness  for  us,  because  we  so  well 
understand  its  hideous  inapplicability. 

In  the  forms  thus  far  considered,  irony  is  produced 
by  the  opposition  between  the  point  of  view  of  the 
characters  on  the  stage  and  that  of  the  spectators,  as 
this  opposition  is  perceived  by  the  spectators  at  the 
time  of  its  occurrence.  But,  as  we  have  already  im- 
plied, the  revelation  of  the  contrast  may  be  delayed  ; 
we  may  for  the  moment  only  suspect  a  double  meaning  ; 
or  perhaps  the  secondary  significance  of  what  we  see 
and  hear  may  be  brought  home  to  us  by  the  subsequent 
course  of  the  action.  This  subtle  kind  of  verbal  irony 
may  be  amply  illustrated  from  the  tragedy  of  Macbeth, 
The  protagonist's  first  words — "  So  fair  and  foul  a  day 
I  have  not  seen" — contain  an  obvious  and  direct  re- 
ference to  the  state  of  the  weather  ;  but  they  so  clearly 
echo  the  witches '  "  fair  is  foul  and  foul  is  fair,"  that 
they  at  once  suggest  to  us  a  bond  of  sympathy  between 
the  speaker  and  those  agents  of  evil  who  are  to  lure 
him  to  his  doom,  while  later  on  we  recall  them  as  an 
index  of  the  moral  struggle  between  the  foul  and  fair 
in  Macbeth's  own  nature.     When  his  soliloquy — 

"  I  have  no  spur 
To  prick  the  sides  of  my  intent,  but  only 
Vaulting  ambition,  which  o'erleaps  itself 
And  falls  on  the  other — " 


302  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEHATURE 

is  interrupted  by  the  entrance  of  his  wife  ;  her  timely 
appearance  just  at  that  juncture  emphasises  the  part 
which,  as  his  spur,  she  is  to  play  in  the  coming  crime. 
In  the  same  way,  when  Duncan  in  describing  the  traitor 
Cawdor,  says — 

"  There's  no  art 

To  find  the  mind's  construction  in  the  face  ; 

He  was  a  gentleman  on  whom  I  built 

An  absolute  trust," 

and  at  that  moment  Macbeth  enters ;  we  instinctively 
feel  that  the  words  are  so  placed  that  they  apply  to 
Macbeth  as  much  as  to  Cawdor.  There  are  other 
phrases  in  the  play  which  distinctly  point  forward ;  and 
which,  though  not  perhaps  specially  noted  at  the  time, 
are  remembered  afterwards,  when  circumstances  bring 
out  their  tragic  significance.  In  these  cases  we  have 
equivoke,  but  an  equivoke  the  disclosure  of  which  is 
postponed.  Thus,  Lady  Macbeth's  words  in  the 
murder  scene — 

"  These  deeds  must  not  be  thought 
After  these  ways  ;  so,  it  will  make  us  mad  "  ; 


and — 
and — 


"  Go  get  some  water 
And  wash  this  filthy  witness  from  your  hand  "  ; 


"  A  little  water  clears  us  of  this  deed  : 
How  easy  is  it,  then"  ; — 

are  full  of  terrible  prognostications  of  the  sleep-walking 
scene,  and  of  the  remorse  which  finds  utterance  in  the 
conscience-stricken  woman's  despairing  cry — 

"  Out,  damned  spot !  out,  I  say !  .  .  .  What,  will  these  hands 
ne'er  be  clean  ? — No  more  o'  that,  my  lord,  no  more  o'  that :  you 
will  mar  all  with  this  starting.  .  .  .  Here's  the  smell  of  the  blood 
still :  all  the  perfumes  of  Arabia  will  not  sweeten  this  little  hand. 
Oh,  oh,  oh  ! " 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DKAMA  303 

Another  aspect  of  this  Prophetic  Irony,  as  it  may  be 
called,  is  also  exemplified  in  the  same  tragedy — the 
contrast  between  the  course  of  events  as  anticipated, 
and  what  actually  comes  to  pass.  The  predictions  of 
the  witches  are  indeed  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter,  but 
in  a  way  quite  different  from  that  upon  which  Macbeth 
had  been  led  to  count ;  the  irony  being  pointed  by 
Macbeth's  own  words — 

"  And  be  these  juggling  fiends  no  more  believed, 
That  palter  with  us  in  a  double  sense  ; 
That  keep  the  word  of  promise  to  our  ear, 
And  break  it  to  our  hope."  ^ 

A  problem  of  some  importance  is  suggested  by  the 
foregoing  considerations — that  of  the  artistic  conceai- 
value  of  concealment  and  surprise  as  elements  ment  and 
in  sustaining  interest.  In  the  conduct  of  his  ^^^  ^®* 
plot,  the  dramatist  may  often  have  a  choice  between 
two  methods.  He  may  elect  to  hold  back  from  his 
audience  essential  particulars  relating  to  characters, 
motives,  or  incidents,  which,  while  they  will  of  course 
enter  into  his  action,  will  do  so  as  hidden  agencies,  to 
be  inferred  only,  if  at  all,  by  their  results  :  and  he 
may  calculate  upon  the  production  of  a  telling  effect 
when  the  real  facts  are  disclosed,  and  the  causes  of 
what  has  been  happening  made  evident.  Or  he 
may,  on  the  contrary,  prefer  to  take  his  audience  into 

^  Prophetic  anticipation  is,  on  the  other  hand,  often  used,  and  with  great 
effect,  in  the  reverse  way — that  is,  the  prediction,  utterly  incredible  as  it 
may  have  seemed,  is  in  the  end  fulfilled.  The  accomplishment  of  the 
oracle  in  (Edipus  the  King  may  be  cited  as  a  case  in  point.  Sometimes 
we  have  veiled  hints  only,  or  vague  foreshadowings  of  coming  things. 
Compare  Dickens's  use  of  this  device  in  Dombey  and  Son  :  "  Let  him  re- 
member it  in  that  room,  years  to  come"  (chaps,  xviii.  and  lix.))  and 
the  unconscious  prophecies  of  which  skilful  use  is  made  in  Tennyson's 
Enoch  Arden. 


304  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

his  confidence,  exhibit  to  them  at  the  outset  the  nature 
of  the  chief  forces  which  are  involved  in  his  plot,  and 
then  rely  upon  the  interest  with  which  they  will  follow 
the  action  and  reaction  of  these  forces  in  working  out  a 
certain  issue.^  The  question  of  the  relative  advantages 
of  these  two  methods  is,  again,  one  which  cannot  be 
answered  in  general  terms  ;  it  is  only  when  all  the 
circumstances  of  any  given  case  are  considered  that  it 
is  possible  for  us  to  decide  what  the  dramatist  has  lost, 
and  what  he  has  gained,  by  adopting  the  one  or  the 
other.  It  should,  however,  be  borne  in  mind  that  the 
effort  to  create  excitement  and  maintain  attention  by 
means  of  mystery,  secrecy,  and  the  unexpected,  though 
perfectly  legitimate,  is  so  common  a  characteristic  of 
the  merely  sensational  kind  of  novel  and  play  that  it 
comes  under  suspicion  of  belonging  to  the  more 
rudimentary  stages  of  art ;  and  that  the  interest  of  the 
reader  or  spectator  is  generally  quite  as  keen  as  well 
as  more  intelligent  when,  instead  of  having  the 
motive  forces  of  the  plot  withheld  from  him,  and 
perhaps  being  misled  as  to  their  real  meaning  and 
direction,  he  is  enabled  by  preliminary  knowledge  to 
follow,  as  it  were,  from  the  inside  the  play  of  passion 
and  the   evolution   of  events.     Every  student   of  his 

^  In  his  preface  to  The  Woman  in  White^  Wilkie  Collins  speaks  of 
"the  interest  of  curiosity  and  the  excitement  of  surprise"  as  "  two  main 
elements  in  the  attraction  of  all  stories."  In  his  preface  to  the  later  No 
Name,  he  writes:  "It  will  be  seen  that  the  narrative  related  in  these 
pages  has  been  constructed  on  a  plan  which  differs  from  the  plan  followed 
in  my  last  novel,  and  in  some  other  of  my  works  published  at  an  earlier 
date.  The  only  secret  contained  in  this  book  is  revealed  midway  in  the 
first  volume.  From  that  point,  all  the  main  events  of  the  story  are 
purposely  foreshadowed  before  they  take  place — my  present  design  being 
to  rouse  the  reader's  interest  in  following  the  train  of  circumstances  by 
which  these  foreseen  events  are  brought  about," 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  305 

technique  is  aware  that  Shakespeare,  though  (as  in  the 
supposed  death  and  final  restoration  of  Hermione  in 
The  Winter  s  Tale)  he  occasionally  has  recourse  to 
concealment  and  surprise,  rarely  depends  much  upon 
them  ;  ^  even  his  great  villains  and  intriguers  betray 
themselves  to  us  at  the  beginning,  and  it  is  with  a  full 
insight  into  their  characters  and  purposes  that  we 
watch  them  working  out  their  designs.  A  suggestive 
fact  comes  to  light  when  we  examine  his  way  of  using 
the  device  of  sex-ambiguity,  already  referred  to.  This 
he  employs  a  number  of  times — in  The  Two  Gentlemen 
of  Verona,  The  Merchant  of  Venice^  As  You  Like  It, 
Twelfth  Night,  and  Cymbeline ;  but  in  every  instance 
we  are  taken  into  the  secret,  and  thus  no  effect  of 
surprise  is  sought  through  revelation  of  the  truth  that 
a  character  we  had  been  led  to  take  for  a  youth  is 
really  a  girl.  Now  it  happens  that  in  the  two  best- 
known  pieces  in  our  romantic  drama,  after  these,  in 
which  sex-ambiguity  is  introduced — Beaumont  and 
Fletcher's  Philaster  and  Ben  Jonson's  Epiccene  or  The 
Silent  Woman — the  opposite  plan  is  adopted.  In  the 
former  it  is  not  till  the  end  that  we  learn  that  the 
supposed  page  Bellario  is  the  maiden  Euphrasia  ;  in 
the  latter,  we  are  kept  in  the  dark  to  the  very  last  of 
the  fact  that  Epiccene  is  a  youth  in  disguise.      So  far 

^  If  we  compare  the  case  of  Hermione  with  that  of  Hero  in  Much  Ado, 
we  see  that  difference  in  method  produces  marked  difference  in  effect. 
"We  know  that  Hero  is  not  really  dead  .  .  .  and  thus,  though  the 
element  of  tragedy  is  used  to  heighten  the  effect  of  the  comedy,  the 
comedy-tone  is  not  destroyed.  In  The  Winter's  Tale  the  truth  is  kept 
back.  For  all  we  know  to  the  contrary,  the  grave  of  Mamilius  has  also 
closed  over  his  wronged  and  patient  mother.  The  result  is  that  for  a 
time  the  drama  moves  in  the  darkness  of  unrelieved  tragedy  "  {Introduction 
to  The  Winters  7 'ale,  in  Elizabethan  Shakespeare), 
U 


3o6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUEE 

as  this  particular  matter  is  concerned,  we  need,  I  think, 
have  no  hesitation  in  saying  that  Shakespeare's  is  the 
better  way. 

VI 

Mention  has  already  been  made  of  the  familiar  fact 

that  under  the  influence,  in  part  of  those 
The  Differ-  different  technical  conditions  of  which  we 
of  Drama,    have   spoken,   but    in    part  also  of  different 

artistic  aims  and  ideals,  the  drama  has 
assumed  very  different  forms  in  different  periods  and 
countries.  It  is  customary  for  the  historian  and  critic 
to  distinguish  sharply  between  two  antithetical  types 
of  drama — the  classic  and  the  romantic.  This  broad 
division  is,  however,  insufficient.  The  classic  type 
must  be  sub-divided  into  the  ancient,  or  true  classic, 
and  the  neo-classic,  or  pseudo-classic,  while  a  separate 
place  must  be  made  for  the  drama  of  our  own  time. 
Greek     tragedy     and     comedy,    with     which     any 

systematic  study  of  the  drama  must  begin, 
Drama        alike  originated  in  rustic  festivals  which  in 

early  Attica  were  periodically  held  in  honour 
of  the  nature-god,  Dionysus — the  one  from  the  serious, 
the  other  from  the  frolicsome  side  of  such  celebrations. 
Comedy  in  Athens  passed  through  three  stages : 
Old  Comedy,  or  the  comedy  of  political  and  personal 
satire  ;  Middle  Comedy,  which  marked  the  transition 
from  this  to  the  comedy  of  social  life  and  manners  ; 
and  New  Comedy,  in  which  this  change  was  completed, 
and  a  kind  of  comedy  evolved  in  many  ways  re- 
sembling our  own.  With  the  exception  of  eleven 
plays  by  one  writer — the  greatest  master  of  Old 
Comedy,  Aristophanes — all    the    productions    of   the 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  307 

comic  writers  of  Athens  have  been  lost ;  and  though 
we  have  examples  in  two  plays  of  Aristophanes — the 
Ecclesiazusoe  (or  Women  in  Parliament)  and  Plutus — 
of  Middle  Comedy,  New  Comedy  we  know  only 
through  the  imitations  of  Latin  playwrights.  Of 
Greek  tragedy,  fortunately,  a  larger  and  more  repre- 
sentative body  of  work  has  come  down  to  us,  for  we 
possess  thirty-two  plays  of  the  three  great  tragic 
poets — ^schylus,  Sophocles  and  Euripides.^ 

Some  of  the  salient  features  of  Greek  tragedy  have 
already  been  described.^  A  few  words  must,  however, 
be  added  in  regard  to  one  point  of  primary  im- 
portance— the  Chorus.  I  have  said  that  to  the 
modern  reader  no  one  characteristic  of  the  Attic 
drama  is  more  curious  than  this.  When  we  first  take 
up  the  study  of  Greek  tragedy,  indeed,  it  is  with  some 
astonishment  that  we  find  in  every  play  such  a  chorus,^ 
or  body  of  persons,  forming  as  it  were  a  multiple 
individuality,  moving,  singing,  and  dancing  together, 
and  continually  interrupting  the  dialogue  and  the 
progress  of  the  action  with  their  odes  or  interludes. 
This  feature  seems  to  us  so  strange  and  even  so 
undramatic,  it   appears   to  be  such  a  clog  upon  the 

^  Of  these,  seven  are  by  ^schylus,  seven  by  Sophocles,  and  eighteen 
by  Euripides  (or  seventeen,  if  we  exclude  the  Rhcesus,  the  authenticity  of 
which  is  disputed).  Our  feeling  of  regret  over  the  disappearance  of  the 
great  mass  of  Greek  tragic  literature  is  deepened  by  our  knowledge  of 
the  fact,  noted  by  Prof.  Jebb,  that  * '  many  of  the  best  plays  we  have 
were  vanquished  [in  the  dramatic  contests]  by  rivals  the  very  names  of 
which  have  been  lost. " 

^  See  ante,  pp.  234,  235. 

^  E.g.,  the  Chorus  of  Ocean  Nymphs  in  i^schylus'  Prometheus  Bound, 
of  Theban  Elders  in  Sophocles'  Antigone,  of  the  companions  of  Odysseus 
and  Neoptolemus  in  the  same  poet's  Philoctetes,  of  captive  Greek  women 
in  Euripides'  Iphigenia  in  Tauris^  and  so  on. 


3o8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

movement  of  the  play,  that  we  are  naturally  impelled 
to    ask    when     and    why    it    was    incorporated     into 

Greek  tragedy.  The  answer  is,  that  it  was 
Chorus.       never  "  incorporated  "  into  Greek  tragedy — 

that  it  was  not,  in  other  words,  an  imported 
element  or  artistic  invention.  It  was  simply  a, 
necessary  result  of  the  conditions  out  of  which  Greek 
tragedy  arose.  The  genesis  of  tragedy  is  to  be  found 
in  the  dithyramb,  or  choral  hymn,  which  was  chanted 
by  the  village  worshippers  around  the  altar  of 
Dionysus ;  the  individual  actor  and  dialogue  were 
later  developments  out  of  this.  Thus  the  chorus 
belonged  to  Greek  tragedy  because  it  was  the  germ 
from  which  it  sprang.  It  is  true  that  from  the  very 
beginning  of  real  tragedy  with  ^schylus,  the  tendency 
of  artistic  evolution  was  consistently  towards  the 
subordination  of  the  choral  element  to  that  of  the 
individual  actors,  who  were  correspondingly  brought 
to  the  front.  This  change  in  the  centre  of  interest 
is  strikingly  shown  by  a  comparison  of  the  works  of 
the  first  with  those  of  the  last  of  our  three  tragic 
poets.  In  ^schylus,  roughly  speaking,  about  one 
half  of  a  play  is  occupied  by  choral  odes  ;  in  Euripides, 
only  from  a  quarter  to  a  ninth  part.  Nor  is  this  all. 
Along  with  this  decrease  in  the  prominence  of  the 
chorus  went  its  gradual  detachment  from  the  action. 
In  ^schylus,  the  connection  between  the  chorus  and 
the  movement  of  the  plot  is  very  close  and  organic  ; 
it  remains  very  close  and  organic  in  Sophocles  ;  but 
in  Euripides,  the  choral  odes  are  generally  little  more 
than  musical  interludes,  with  only  the  slightest 
relevancy   to    the   dramatic    context.^     Thus,   as    Mr 

^  Compare  the  remark  of  Aristotle  :  *'  The  chorus  should  be  considered 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  309 

Haigh  has  said,  the  history  of  the  chorus  in  Greek 
tragedy  is  a  history  of  gradual  decay.  None  the  less, 
the  chorus  remained  a  formal  feature  of  it  till  its  end, 
and  from  it  was  taken  over  in  turn  by  the  Latin 
dramatists. 

Yet,  while  from  our  point  of  view,  this  gradual 
subordination  of  the  chorus  seems  a  perfectly  natural 
effort  to  eliminate  a  vestigial  element  which  we 
cannot  but  regard  as  clumsy,  the  student  must  still 
remember  that  the  exquisite  tact  of  the  Greeks  was 
rarely  more  triumphantly  shown  than  in  the  skill  with 
which  they  turned  this  very  element  to  the  higher 
purposes  of  dramatic  art.  The  lyrical  portions  of 
their  tragedies  were  employed  as  channels  for  the 
expression  of  the  emotions  aroused  by  the  action,  and 
of  such  general  moral  reflections  as  would  be  likely  to 
suggest  themselves  to  a  sympathetic  spectator.  It  is 
in  the  plays  of  Sophocles — "  the  mellow  glory  of  the 
Attic  stage " — that  this  use  of  the  chorus  reaches 
perfection,  and  it  is  in  these  plays,  therefore,  that  we 
can  best  study  its  functions  as  they  are  admirably 
explained  in  the  following  passage  by  Matthew 
Arnold  : — 

as  one  of  the  persons  of  the  drama  ;  it  should  be  a  part  of  the  whole,  and 
a  sharer  in  the  action  ;  not  as  in  Euripides,  but  as  in  Sophocles  "  {Poetics^ 
c.  xviii.).  Mr  Haigh  points  out  that,  with  increasing  complexity  of  plot 
in  the  hands  of  Euripides,  the  chorus  "  began  to  be  felt  as  a  positive 
encumbrance.  .  .  .  It  was  often  impossible  that  the  mystery  on  which  the 
plot  depended  should  be  concealed  from  the  knowledge  of  the  chorus ; 
and  the  various  intrigues,  stratagems,  and  misconceptions  had  to  be 
carried  out  to  their  conclusion  in  the  presence  of  fifteen  witnesses  who 
were  acquainted  with  the  facts,  and  could  easily  have  prevented  the 
catastrophe"  {Tragic  Drama  of  the  Greeks,  pp.  251,  252).  This  shows 
how  great  was  the  influence  of  the  chorus  in  maintaining  that  simplicity 
of  structure  which  was  one  characteristic  of  Greek  tragedy  as  a  whole. 


k 


310  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

"  The  Chorus  was,  at  each  stage  of  the  action,  to 
collect  and  weigh  the  impressions  which  the  action 
would  at  that  stage  naturally  make  on  a  pious 
thoughtful  mind  ;  and  was  at  last,  at  the  end  of  the 
tragedy,  when  the  issue  of  the  action  appeared,  to 
strike  a  final  balance.  If  the  feeling  with  which  the 
actual  spectator  regarded  the  course  of  the  tragedy 
could  be  deepened  by  reminding  him  of  what  was 
past,  or  by  indicating  to  him  what  was  to  come,  it 
was  the  province  of  the  ideal  spectator  so  to  deepen 
it.  To  combine,  to  harmonise,  to  deepen  for  the 
spectator  the  feelings  excited  in  him  by  the  sight  of 
what  was  passing  on  the  stage — this  is  the  one  grand 
effect  produced  by  the  Chorus  in  Greek  tragedy."  ^ 
Following   the  movement  of  dramatic   history,  we 

pass  from  Greece  to  Rome,  which  at  the 
Drama        ^^^^  ^^  ^^^  literary  awakening  under  Hellenic 

impulses  began  to  fashion  both  comedies  and 
tragedies  on  the  lines  which  the  Greeks  had  laid 
down.  The  great  mass  of  Latin  dramatic  literature 
has  perished.  But  in  comedy  we  possess  twenty 
plays  of  Plautus  and  six  of  Terence,  while  tragedy  is 
represented  by  the  ten  dramas  which  have  come  down 
to  us  under  the  name  of  Seneca.^  Both  the  comedies 
and  the  tragedies  have  great  historical  importance ; 
the  comedies,  in  part  because  it  is  through  them,  as  I 

1  Preface  to  his  Merope,  pp.  xlii.,  xliii.  It  should,  however,  be  added 
that  this  theory  of  the  chorus  as  an  "  ideal  spectator  "  requires  a  certain 
amount  of  qualification.  The  chorus  in  Sophocles  is  sometimes  (as 
notably  in  the  Antigone)  the  exponent,  not  so  much  of  the  impartial 
criticism  of  "  a  thoughtful  pious  mind,"  as  of  the  opinions  and  feelings  of 
the  ordinary  bystander,  which  are  thus  focussed  and  defined.  See  Lewis 
Campbell's  Sophocles^  p.  128. 

"^  Whether  this  was  the  famous  philosopher  of  this  name  is  doubtful. 
It  is  not  even  certain  that  all  the  ten  plays  are  by  the  same  hand. 


I 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DKAMA  31 1 

have  said,  that  we  derive  our  knowledge  of  the  Greek 
New  Comedy,  which  they  copied  or  adapted,  and  in 
part  because  of  the  influence  which  they  presently 
exerted  on  the  modern  drama ;  the  tragedies,  on 
account  of  the  fact  that  it  was  these  imitative  produc- 
tions, and  not  the  works  of  the  original  Greek  masters, 
which  became  the  great  incentives  and  models  of  the 
neo-classic  dramatists  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth 
centuries. 

Religious   in   origin,  like   that   of  the   Greeks,  the 

drama  of  modern   Europe  arose  out  of  the 

^  Early  His- 

rich  symbolic  liturgy  of  the  mediaeval  church    tory  of 

through    the  gradual    dramatisation    of   im-    JJo<*e^^ 
=>  *=•  Drama. 

portant  events  commemorated  in  the  chief 
services  of  the  calendar.  This  liturgical  drama  in 
course  of  time  evolved  into  a  fully  developed  and 
widely  popular  religious  play — the  Mystery,  or 
Miracle  Play ;  the  subject  matter  of  which  was 
derived  mainly  from  the  Bible,  but  in  part  also  from 
tradition  and  the  lives  of  the  saints.  Mr  Symonds 
described  the  religious  drama  in  England  as  the 
"  Dame  School  "  of  our  dramatic  genius.  The  phrase 
is  not  inapt.  Very  crude  of  course  it  was ;  but 
dramatic  elements  were  not  altogether  wanting — 
elements  of  tragedy,  as  in  the  Crucifixion  and  Last 
Judgment ;  elements  of  pathos,  as  in  the  story  of 
Abraham  and  Isaac  ;  elements,  even,  of  humour,  as  in 
the  scenes  between  Cain  and  his  boy,  between  Noah  and 
his  wife,  and  in  the  Shepherd  plays  of  the  Chester 
and  Wakefield  cycles.  A  little  later,  another  kind  of 
didactic  drama  arose  and  flourished  in  the  Morality, 
or  allegorical  play,  in  which  the  scholastic  philosophy 
of  the  middle  ages,  and   presently,  the  new  learning 


312  TflJE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUllE 

and  the  theological  ideas  of  a  period  of  fierce  contro- 
versy, found  a  vehicle  of  popular  expression.  Closer 
attention  than  is  usually  accorded  to  them  should,  I 
am  convinced,  be  given  by  the  student  to  these 
experimental  forms,  which  counted  more  than  is 
commonly  supposed  in  the  after  development  of  the 
drama  in  England.^  At  the  same  time,  they  were  of 
course  mere  preliminaries.  The  real  beginnings  of 
modern  comedy  and  tragedy  are  closely  connected 
with  that  particular  phase  of  the  Renaissance  which 
we  call  the  classic  revival.  Fired  by  enthusiasm  for 
everything  belonging  to  the  newly  discovered  world 
of  pagan  antiquity,  men  turned  back  to  that  world  for 
inspiration  and  example  in  the  drama  as  in  all  other 
forms  of  literary  art.  In  comedy,  the  native  and 
popular  elements  were  too  strong  in  England  to  per- 
mit of  mere  academic  imitation  ;  but  the  study  of 
Plautus  and  Terence  helped  greatly  to  teach  the  rising 
school  of  dramatists  the  principles  of  structure  and 
form.  Evidence  of  this  will  be  found  in  our  first 
English  comedy  —  Nicholas  Udall's  Ralph  Roister 
Bolster  (about  1550)  —  in  which  characters  and 
humours  of  ordinary  contemporary  life  form  the  sub- 
stance of  a  play  which  yet  admittedly  owes  much  to 

^  Some  representative  specimens  of  the  pre-Elizabethan  drama  will  be 
found  in  English  Miracle  Plays,  Moralities,  and  Interludes,  edited  with 
an  admirable  introduction,  by  Alfred  W.  Pollard.  That  Shakespeare 
was  familiar  with  the  old  religious  plays,  which  were  still  popular  when 
he  was  a  boy,  is  evinced  by  such  phrases  as  Hamlet's  "out-doing 
Termagant"  and  **out-IIeroding  Herod,"  Bottom's  **  Cain-coloured 
beard,"  and  Celia's  reference  to  Orlando's  hair  as  "something  browner 
than  Judas's"  {^As  You  Like  It,  Act  III.  scene  iv.).  His  recollection  of 
the  Vice — the  comic  personage  of  the  moralities,  and  the  forerunner  of 
the  Shakespearean  clown— is  shown  in  Feste's  (the  Clown's)  song  in 
Twelfth  Night,  Act  IV.  scene  ii. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  313 

the  influence  of  the  Latin  masters.^  Tragedy,  on  the 
other  hand,  was  at  the  outset  purely  academic.  It 
began  with  a  deliberate  attempt  on  the  part  of  the 
humanists  to  reproduce  the  entire  system  of  the  tragic 
drama  of  classical  antiquity.  Here  the  historical  im- 
portance of  Seneca  becomes  manifest ;  since  it  was 
upon  his  plays,  and  not  directly  upon  those  of  the 
Greek  poets,  that,  as  I  have  said,  the  new  serious 
drama  was  closely  fashioned.^  Now  Senecan  tragedy, 
while  in  matter  it  tended  to  a  free  use  of  the  violent, 
the  horrible,  and  the  supernatural,  presented  the 
structural  principles  of  the  classic  drama  in  an  exag- 
gerated form,  action  being  entirely  eliminated  and 
long  stately  speeches,  full  of  rhetoric  and  declamation, 
taking  the  place  of  dramatic  dialogue.  This  was  the 
pattern  adopted  for  tragedy  by  the  Italian  and  French 
dramatists  of  the  sixteenth  century ;  this  was  the 
pattern  adopted  also  by  the  writers  of  our  first  regular 
English  tragedy,  Gorboduc,  which  was  performed  at  the 
Inner  Temple  three  years  before  Shakespeare  was 
born.  But  here  we  reach  the  great  point  of  rupture 
between  the  destinies  of  Italian  and  French  tragedy 
on  the  one  hand  and  those  of  English  tragedy  on  the 
other.       In    Italy    and     France,    while    the    Senecan 

^  Reference  is  made  in  the  prologue  to  Plautus  and  Terence.  The  plot 
of  the  comedy  is  largely  modelled  on  the  Miles  Gloriostis,  or  Braggadocio^ 
of  ihe  former  writer.  Matthew  Merrygreek,  the  mischief-maker  of  the 
piece,  combines  many  of  the  characteristics  of  the  Vice  of  the  moralities 
and  of  the  parasite  of  Latin  comedy. 

2  Various  translations  of  the  separate  plays  appeared  in  England  be- 
tween 1559  and  1566,  while  a  complete  edition  was  published  in  158 1. 
Direct  influence  was  at  the  same  time  powerfully  reinforced  by  the  vogue 
of  the  contemporary  Italian  drama  in  cultivated  circles  in  England. 
Sidney  in  his  Apologiefor  Poesie  uses  Seneca  as  the  standard  of  excellence 
in  tragedy. 


314  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

type  was  modified  in  various  particulars,  it  was  still 
Triumpii     taken    as    a    foundation,   and   neo-classicism 

of  the  -v^as  firmly  established  ;  its  ideals,  backed  by 
Romantic  j  f  j 

Type  in  the  enormous  power  of  the  Academy,  ruling 
England,  supreme  in  the  latter  country  till  the  time  of 
Dumas  and  Victor  Hugo.  In  England,  after  a  few 
abortive  experiments,  and  despite  the  efforts  and 
influence  of  humanists  like  Sidney,  Seneca  and  neo- 
classicism  were  abandoned,  and  an  independent  type 
of  drama — the  romantic — triumphed  instead.^ 

In  one  other  country  beside  England  the  national 
^g  genius  was  too  strong  to  accept  the  classic 

Spanish  yoke,  and  a  rich  romantic  drama  arose  in 
defiance  of  all  the  attempts  of  scholars  and 
critics  to  regulate  it  by  line  and  rule.  This  was  Spain. 
The  Spanish  romantic  drama  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury— best  known  to  us  in  the  work  of  its  two  chief 
masters.  Lope  de  Vega  and  Calderon — deserves  the 
attention  of  the  student  for  various  reasons,  and 
especially  for  its  immense  fertility  and  ingenuity  in 
the  matter  of  plot,  and  for  the  influence  which  it 
exerted    on   this  side  upon  the   Italian,  French,  and 

^  This  triumph  was  accomplished  by  Shakespeare's  immediate  prede- 
cessors, the  '*  scholar- playwrights,"  and  especially  by  Marlowe.  Neo- 
classicism  was  represented  among  Shakespeare's  contemporaries  by 
Samuel  Daniel  and  Ben  Jonson,  and  its  influence  was  later  shown  from 
time  to  time  in  such  plays  as  (to  mention  only  two  which  have  a  certain 
place  in  English  literary  history)  Addison's  Cato  (praised  by  Voltaire  as 
the  first  ''regular  tragedy"  of  the  English  stage)  and  Johnson's /r^«^. 
Milton's  Samson  Agotiistes,  Shelley's  Prometheus  Unbound,  Swinburne's 
Aialajita  in  Calydon  and  Erechtheus,  and  countless  other  examples  of 
the  "closet  drama,"  do  not  of  course  belong  to  the  history  of  the  true 
stage-play.  As  a  matter  of  detail,  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that  neo- 
classicism  gave  blank  verse  to  English  poetry,  and  that  this  magnificent 
instrument  cf  the  higher  drama  was  first  used  in  English  tragedy  in 
Gorboduc^ 


I'HE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  315 

English  dramas.^  Yet  the  permanent  literary  value  of 
this  drama  is  after  all  very  slight.  Its  very  strength 
implies  its  radical  weakness.  It  is  essentially  theatrical. 
Its  interest  depends  almost  entirely  upon  incident  and 
intrigue — upon  skilfully  devised  complications,  telling 
situations,  unexpected  turns  in  the  action,  surprises. 
In  characterisation  it  is  thin  and  poor ;  in  psychology, 
crude  and  unconvincing.  Tested  by  the  criteria  upon 
which  we  have  repeatedly  insisted,  it  must  therefore 
be  assigned  a  very  subordinate  rank  among  the  great 
dramas  of  the  world.^ 

We  will  now  make  a  brief  comparison  of  the  two 
great  types  of  modern  drama,  the  neo-classic  and  the 
romantic.  While  the  latter  is  represented  for  us 
chiefly  by  the  works  of  our  Elizabethan  and  Stuart 
playwrights,  with  Shakespeare  at  their  head,  we  must 
add    to    these    two    later    products    of  the    romantic 

^  "  It  is  not  enough  to  say  that  the  two  Corneilles,  Scarron,  Moliere, 
Quinault  and  Lesage  translated  and  adapted  the  works  and  scenes  of 
Spanish  writers.  It  is  not  enough  to  say  that  our  own  writers  pillaged 
them  without  scruple.  To  express  the  obligation  truly,  we  must  say  that 
the  European  Drama  is  saturated  with  Spanish  influence.  Take  from  the 
French,  and  from  Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  and  their  contemporaries,  from 
Dryden,  Congreve,  Wycherley,  Shadwell,  from  Goldoni,  Nota,  Giraud, 
and  others,  all  that  they  have  borrowed  directly  or  indirectly  from  Spain, 
and  you  beggar  them  in  respect  of  situation"  (Lewes's  The  Spanish 
Drama — a  little  volume  which,  though  published  as  long  ago  as  1846, 
still  remains  for  the  English  reader  the  best  and  most  readable  brief 
sketch  of  the  subject). 

2  It  is  significant  that,  with  reference  to  the  question  already  raised  as 
to  the  artistic  value  of  concealment  and  surprise,  Lope  de  Vega  should 
explicitly  recommend  the  employment  of  these  as  important  dramatic 
devices.  "Do  not,"  he  writes,  *' allow  the  solution  to  be  revealed  till 
the  last  scene,  because  when  the  audience  know  the  result,  they  turn  their 
faces  to  the  door"  {Arte  Nuevo  de  hacer  Comedias,  or  Art  of  Writing 
Comedies).  This  may  be  said  to  formulate  the  regular  principle  of  the 
Spanish  drama. 


3i6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATURE 

spirit — the  German   drama  of  Lessing,  Goethe,    and 

Schiller,   and  the  French  drama  of  Dumas, 

parison  of  Victor  Hugo,  and  their  contemporaries.    The 

tueNeo-      finest  examples  of  the  former  type  are  fur- 

and  nished  by  the  writings   of  the  great  French 

Romantic    masters  of  the   seventeenth   and    eighteenth 
Types.  ^ 

centuries  —  Corneille,    Racine,  and    Voltaire, 

though  a  place  beside  them  may  also  be  made  for  the 
tragedies  of  the  Italian  poet,  Alfieri. 

Two  points  at  which  the  neo-classic  tragedy  de- 
parted from  its  Senecan  model  must  first  be  mentioned. 
In  the  substance  of  its  plots  it  gave  great  prominence, 
and  generally  indeed  the  principal  place,  to  the 
interest  of  romantic  love,  a  motive  which  had  been 
conspicuous  by  its  absence  from  the  serious  drama  of 
pagan  antiquity.^  In  structure  it  introduced  a  great 
change  by  dropping  the  chorus,  though  a  survival  of 
this  is,  as  I  have  said,  to  be  detected  in  that  familiar 
figure  in  many  neo-classic  plays,  the  confidant,  who 
has  little  or  nothing  to  do  with  the  action  except  as 
the  alter  ego  of  the  hero  or  heroine,  to  listen  to  their 
confessions  and  reply  with  sympathy  and  advice.^ 
These  points  of  difference  between  the  neo-classic  and 

^  The  intrusion  of  this  motive  is  destructive  of  the  antique  tone  and 
spirit  of  many  modern  dramas  dealing  with  classic  themes.  A  most 
remarkable  illustration  is  to  be  found  in  Goethe's  Iphigenie  auf  Tauris, 
which  was  based  on  the  Iphigenia  in  Tauris  of  Euripides.  Here  the 
barbarian  king  Thoas  is  turned  into  the  romantic  lover  of  Iphigenia. 
This  is  one  of  several  new  features  introduced  by  Goethe,  which  are 
** fatal  to  the  essentially  Greek  character  of  the  story."  The  drama, 
though  formerly  much  praised,  is  "in  fact  an  unfortunate  mixture  of 
Greek  scenery  and  modern  sentiment,  and  as  such  is  rather  a  literary 
curiosity  than  a  great  play"  (Mahaffy's  Euripides,  p.  57). 

2  Rare  examples  of  the  chorus  will  be  encountered  in  regular  French 
tragedy  ;  as,  e.g.y  in  Racine's -(4Ma/zV — perhaps  the  most  famous  example. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  317 

the  antique  drama  are,  however,  of  less  importance  for  us 
than  their  broad  resemblances.  As  between  the  neo- 
classic  and  the  romantic  drama,  on  the  contrary,  the 
interest  of  the  comparison  lies  in  their  fundamental 
contrasts. 

In  the  first  place,  neo-classic  tragedy  (notwith- 
standing its  innovation  in  the  matter  of  romantic  love) 
followed  the  classic  model  in  the  general  nature  of  its 
subjects,  and  in  the  way  in  which  these  subjects  were 
treated.  Classic  drama  had  dealt  with  the  great 
legends  of  a  remote  mythical  age  ;  its  chief  characters 
had  been  majestic  heroes  who  belonged  to  a  world  of 
tradition  altogether  apart  from  and  far  above  that  of 
ordinary  humanity  and  experience ;  and  in  its  hand- 
ling of  such  themes  and  persons  it  had 
sought  a  purely  poetic  rendering  in  harmony  ^nd  style, 
with  them.  Thus  the  dialogue  was  kept 
throughout  at  the  ideal  tragic  pitch  of  stateliness  and 
nobility,  and  homely  phrases  and  realistic  details  were 
avoided  as  discordant  notes.  It  is  true  that  this 
general  statement  is  subject  to  some  exceptions. 
There  is  even  in  ^schylus  an  occasional  approach  to 
the  tone  of  common  life ;  and  in  Euripides,  the  most 
modern  of  all  the  Greek  poets  in  this  as  in  other 
respects,  the  homely  phrase  and  the  realistic  detail  are 
often  conspicuous.^  Yet  ideal  treatment  and  undis- 
turbed unity  of  tone  were  the  theoretical  principles 
of  Greek  tragic  art ;  while  as  for  the  Senecan  drama, 
it  was  uniformly  elevated,  stately,  dignified,  and 
rhetorical.  In  neo-classic  drama  the  same  principles 
are  studiously  maintained.     The  subjects  are  drawn 

1  This  was  one  of  the  points  at  which  he  was  attacked  by  Aristophanes 
in  The  Frogs. 


3i8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

from  a  great  variety  of  sources,  but  they  are  always 
aristocratic  in  quality.  "  Kings,  emperors,  generals  of 
armies,  principal  chiefs  of  republics — it  does  not 
matter,"  says  Voltaire,  "  but  tragedy  always  requires 
characters  raised  above  the  common  plane."  ^  This 
formulates  the  conception  of  tragedy  which  was  re- 
peated again  and  again  by  Italian,  French,  and  even 
English  critics  of  the  period  of  the  Renaissance,  and 
during  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries. 
Tragedy,  in  brief,  had  to  confine  itself  to  "  great " 
themes  and  "  illustrious "  persons.  In  treatment, 
meanwhile,  the  neo-classics  were  more  consistently 
classic  than  the  Greeks  themselves.  No  attempt  to 
mirror  ordinary  life,  or  to  reproduce  common  human 
nature,  was  ever  permitted.  All  had  to  be  on  the 
grand,  the  heroic,  scale.  Unity  of  tone  had  to  be 
preserved,  as  Voltaire  distinctly  says,  by  the  banish- 
ment from  the  dialogue  of  everything  savouring  of 
colloquialism  or  suggestive  of  familiarity. 

The  contrast  at  this  point  between  the  neo-classic 
drama  and  the  romantic  is  manifest.  Romantic 
tragedy  is  indeed  commonly  aristocratic  in  character  ; 
as  its  very  name  implies,  it,  too,  is  generally  concerned 
with  matters  remote  from  the  interests  of  ordinary  life, 
and  with  the  struggles  and  misfortunes  of  more  or  less 
"  illustrious "    people.^     But   in    its  treatment   of   its 

1  Remarques  sur  le  Second  Discours  de  Corneille. 

2  Ordinary  life  furnished  the  material  for  a  few  Elizabethan  tragedies, 
such  as  Arden  of  Fevers  ham,  The  London  Prodigal,  and  The  Yorkshire 
Tragedy,  the  two  last-named  of  which  have  occasionally,  though  without 
the  slightest  warrant,  been  ascribed  to  Shakespeare.  These  may  be 
regarded  as  the  forerunners  of  the  "Domestic  Drama,"  or  Tragidie 
Bourgeoise,  of  the  eighteenth  century  ;  a  form  initiated  in  England  by 
George  Lillo  {George  Barnwell,  Fatal  Ctiriosity),  in  France  by  Diderot 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  319 

subjects,  it  repudiates  entirely  the  neo-classic  method. 
No  attempt  is  made  to  preserve  the  ideal  atmosphere 
or  unity  of  tone.  The  tragic  hero  is  often  set  in  a 
world  of  commonplace  men  and  things.  The  dialogue, 
though  predominantly  poetical,  is  often  racy  with 
colloquialism,  and  has  many  touches  of  familiarity. 
Realistic  details — like  Lear's  famous  "  Pray  you,  undo 
this  button " — abound,  which  to  neo-classic  play- 
wrights and  critics  would  appear  shockingly  trivial  and 
vulgar.^  Thus,  while  the  neo-classic  tragedy  is  entirely 
ideal,  the  romantic  tragedy  combines  the  idealistic  with 
the  realistic. 

The  fundamental  principle  of  unity  of  tone  in  the 
neo-classic  drama  leads,  in  the  second  place,  to  an 
important  result  in  the  complete  separation  in  it,  as  in 
the  ancient  drama,  of  tragedy  and  comedy.  Though 
comedy  was,  rather  grudgingly,  allowed  to  rise  into 
seriousness,  and  even  on  occasion  to  become  "heroic," 
as  in  Corneille's  Don  Sanche  d Aragon  and  Moli^re's 
Dom  Garde  de  Navarre^  no  touch  of  humour  was  ever 
allowed  to  mar  the  sustained  solemnity  of  a  unity  and 
tragic  scene.  It  is  unnecessary  to  dwell  at  variety  of 
length  upon  the  difference  here  presented 
between  the  two  types  of  drama.      The   free  use   of 

(Z^  Fils  Naturel,  Le  P^re  de  Famille),  and  in  Germany  by  Lessing  [Miss 
Sara  Sampson,  Emilia  Galotti).  This  Domestic  Drama  was  one  product 
of  thsft  democratic  movement  in  literature  which  about  the  same  time  gave 
birth  to  the  modern  novel. 

^  It  is  amusing  to  remember  that  when  the  great  battle  between  neo- 
classicism  and  Romanticism  began  in  France  with  Victor  Hugo's 
Hernani,  one  of  the  principal  grounds  of  conflict  was  the  King's  question 
*'  Est-il  minuit?" — and  the  reply — '*  Minuit  bientdt."  To  supporters  of 
the  old  tradition,  question  and  answer  seemed  positively  indecorous — 
•*a  king  asks  what's  o'clock,  like  a  private  citizen,  and  they  tell  him,  as 
if  he  were  a  ploughboy,  midnight "  (Gautier's  Histoire  du  Romantisme\ 


320  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

tragedy  and  comedy  in  the  same  play  is  one  of  the 
most  striking  and  familiar  features  in  the  work  of 
Shakespeare  and  his  contemporaries.  Romantic  drama 
revels  in  variety  of  effect,  while  tragi-comedy,  or  the 
"  mixed  play  " — according  to  Addison,  "  one  of  the 
most  monstrous  inventions  that  ever  entered  into  a 
poet's  thought  "  ^ — has  always  been  a  particularly 
popular  form  on  the  romantic  stage. 

A  third  fundamental  contrast  between  the  two 
The  Turee  types  of  dramatic  construction  is  to  be  found 
Unities.  jj^  ^j^gjj.  opposed  attitudes  towards  the  unities 
of  Time,  Place  and  Action.  Neo-classicism  adhered 
to  these  in  tragedy,  at  least  in  theory.  Romantic 
drama  ignored  the  first  two,  and,  while  it  adopted  the 
third,  put  an  interpretation  upon  it  quite  different 
from  that  maintained  by  disciples  of  the  other  school. 
As  in  the  one  case,  the  distinction  is  between  accep- 
tance and  rejection,  while  in  the  other  it  is  between 
diverse  views  of  the  same  principle,  it  will  be  con- 
venient to  deal  with  the  two  questions  separately. 

A  definition  of  the  neo-classic  position  is  first  re- 
quired, and  this  is  provided  in  the  following  couplet 
of  the  "  law-giver  of  Parnassus,"  Boileau — 

"  Qu'en  un  lieu,  qu'en  un  jour,  un  seul  fait  accompli 
Tienne  jusqu'^  la  fin  le  theatre  rempli."^ 

"  Let  the  stage  be  occupied  to  the  end  by  a  single 
completed  action,  which  takes  place   in    one  spot,    in 

^  Spectator,  No.  40.  Thus  also  Lisideius,  the  advocate  of  the  French 
against  the  English  drama  in  Dryden's  Essay  of  Dramatic  Poesie,  says — 
"There  is  no  theatre  in  the  world  has  anything  so  absurd  as  English 
tragi-comedy."  Compare  Milton's  scornful  reference  to  the  practice  of 
"interweaving  comic  stuff  with  tragic  sadness  and  gravity  "  {Of  that  Sort 
of  Dratnalic  Poe?n  called  Tragedy,  prefixed  to  Samson  Agonistes). 

^VArt  Poaique,  Chant  II L 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  321 

one  day."  Disregarding  for  the  moment  the  question 
of  singleness  of  action,  we  have  here  a  clear  and 
compact  statement  of  the  rule  concerning  time  and 
place — the  former  must  be  confined  to  one  day  ; 
the  latter  must  never  be  changed.  Into  the  history 
of  the  rise  and  formulation  of  these  supposed  laws  of 
the  drama,  we  cannot  now  enter,  nor  is  it  necessary,  or 
indeed  possible,  to  undertake  any  discussion  of  their 
artistic  justification  from  the  point  of  view  of  their 
supporters.  It  is  important,  however,  to  understand 
that  they  are,  strictly  speaking,  neo-classic,  and  not 
classic  ;  that  is,  that  their  real  source  and  authority  must 
be  sought  in  the  theories  of  modern  critics,  and  not 
in  the  principles  or  practice  of  the  Greek  stage.^  They 
took  definite  shape  among  the  Italian  humanists  of 
the  Renaissance,  and  passed  thence  into  France,  where 

1  Aristotle's  only  reference  to  the  unity  of  time  is  contained  in  the 
following  passage:  "  Epic  poetry  agrees  so  far  with  Tragic,  as  it  is  an 
imitation  of  serious  actions  ;  but  in  this  it  differs,  that  it  makes  use  of  a 
single  metre,  and  is  confined  to  narration.  It  also  differs  in  length  ;  for 
Tragedy  endeavours,  as  far  as  possible,  to  confine  its  action  within  the 
limits  of  a  single  revolution  of  the  sun,  or  nearly  so  ;  but  the  time  of 
epic  action  is  indefinite"  {Poetics^  c  V.).  Of  unity  of  place,  Aristotle 
makes  no  mention  at  all ;  an  omission  which  led  the  French  critic, 
DAubignac,  to  the  amazing  conclusion  that  he  left  it  out  because  it  was 
so  well  known  at  the  time  that  it  did  not  need  his  attention  {Practiqtie 
du  Thddtre).  At  any  rate,  Aristotle's  object  was  rather  to  formulate  the 
practice  of  the  great  tragic  poets  than  to  lay  down  abstract  rules  for 
tragedy.  As  to  that  practice,  we  have  already  seen  that  a  general  ad- 
herence to  the  unities  in  Greek  tragedy  was  largely  the  result  of  the 
presence  of  the  Chorus  (see  ante^  p.  235).  Lessing,  in  his  famous  and 
brilliant  attack  upon  French  neo-classicism  in  his  Hamburgische  Drama- 
turgies was  probably  the  first  critic  to  point  out  this  fact.  Infractions 
of  the  unity  of  place  have  been  noted.  In  several  of  the  surviving 
Attic  tragedies,  as  in  the  Agamemnon  of  ^schylus,  the  Trachinian 
Maidens  of  Sophocles,  and  the  Suppliants  of  Euripides,  the  unity  of 
time  is  ignored, 
5C 


322  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

they  maintained  a  tyrannous  sway  till  the  time  of  the 
The  Unities  Rorn^intic  revolt.  Yet  their  rule  was  not 
of  Time  accepted  without  occasional  protest,  and  even 
^  ^°®*  some  attempts  at  compromise.  Corneille,  the 
first  great  master  of  French  tragedy,  but  a  Romantic  by 
temper, clearly  chafed  under  them.  Against  the  rigorous 
reading  of  the  unity  of  time,  for  example,  he  pleaded 
hard  for  "  quelque  elargissement " — for  thirty  hours, 
where  necessary,  instead  of  the  prescribed  twenty-four. 
Moreover,  many  instances  may  be  found  in  French 
tragedy  in  which,  as  Lessing  said,  even  if  the  letter 
of  the  law  is  obeyed,  its  spirit  is  broken.  Thus, 
in  Corneille's  Le  Cid  we  have  a  quarrel,  a  couple  of 
scenes  in  which  the  heroine  has  audience  of  the  king, 
two  agitating  interviews  between  the  heroine  and  her 
lover,  two  duels,  and  a  great  battle  with  the  Moors. 
No  wonder  that  Corneille  himself  admitted,  as  well 
he  might,  that  for  a  single  day's  work  the  action  was 
"  un  peu  pr^cipit^e  "  ;  or  that  the  Academy,  in  pass- 
ing judgment  upon  the  play,  should  have  declared 
that  ''  the  poet  in  trying  to  observe  the  rules  of  art 
had  chosen  rather  to  sin  against  those  of  nature." 
In  more  perfect  examples  of  neo-classic  drama  we 
do  not  indeed  encounter  absurdities  so  glaring  as 
these.  Yet  the  impression  often  left  is  one  of 
artificially  contrived  simplicity,  and  quite  unnatural 
condensation. 

That  to  these  pedantic  rules  concerning  time  and 
place  romantic  dramatists  have  always  been  supremely 
indifferent  is  a  fact  well  known  to  every  student  of  the 
English  stage.  Shakespeare  cared  nothing  for  them, 
moving  his  scene  freely  from  town  to  town,  and  from 
country  to  country,   as    often    as    occasion    required, 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  323 

"  jumping  o'er  times,"  and  "  turning  the  accomplish- 
ment of  many  years  into  an  hour  glass."  ^  In  two 
cases,  it  is  true — in  the  Comedy  of  Errors  and  The 
Tempest — he  confines  his  plot  to  one  day  and 
practically  to  one  spot  ;  the  latter  play  being 
specially  remarkable  because  in  it  the  ideal  of  time- 
unity  is  reached  in  the  almost  complete  correspondence 
of  stage-time  with  actual  time.  But  these  excep- 
tions only  prove  that,  like  other  romantic  playwrights, 
Shakespeare  felt  himself  at  perfect  liberty  to  accept 
as  well  as  to  reject  academic  convention,  and  to  work 
in  whatever  form  seemed  most  suitable  to  the  matter 
in  hand.  To  us  who  are  bred  in  the  Shakespearean 
tradition,  this  romantic  freedom  in  the  handling  of 
time  and  place  appears  of  course  so  natural  and 
proper  that  it  is  difficult  for  us  to  give  quite  serious 
attention  to  the  arguments  of  the  neo-classic  school. 
Yet  we  must  never  forget  that  romantic  liberty  may 
easily  degenerate  into  licence,  and  that  if  liberty  is 
to  be  defended,  licence  is  still  to  be  condemned. 
Shakespeare  himself,  with  his  too  rapid  and  frequent 
changes  of  scene  within  an  act,  and  his  total 
carelessness  as  to  the  number  of  days,  or  months,  or 
even  years  required  by  his  action,  provides  many 
illustrations  of  the  abuse  of  freedom.  The  Winter  s 
Tale  may  be  regarded  as  a  classic  example  of 
romantic  excess  ;  and  such  excess  is  again  almost 
equally  conspicuous  in  the  straggling  and  incoherent 
chronicle  plays. 

In  turning  from  the  unities  of  time  and  place  to 
that  of  action  or  plot,  we  pass  from  mere  arbitrary 
restraints  imposed  from  the  outside  to  what  has  been 

^  Prologue  Lo  Heiirv  V, 


324  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

universally  acknowledged  as  an  inherent  and  essential 
principle  of  dramatic  construction.  The 
Aotiori.^  difference  between  the  neo-classic  and  the 
romantic  types  of  drama  is,  therefore,  at  this 
point,  as  I  have  said,  one  of  interpretation  only,  and 
this  difference  can  be  very  easily  explained.  Aris- 
totle's canon — T^aJ/g  [lia  n  xai  oXri — an  action  one 
and  complete  (the  "  seul  fait  accompli  "  of  Boileau) 
was  taken  by  the  neo-classicists  in  its  most  rigorous 
acceptation  to  mean  a  single  plot,  undiversified  by 
episodes  and  uncomplicated  by  subordinate  incidents 
and  characters.  So  severely  was  this  rule  enforced 
that  adverse  criticism  was  passed  upon  Le  Cid^  be- 
cause the  Infanta's  love  for  the  hero,  though  not 
developed  into  a  sub-plot,  diverted  attention  from  the 
real  theme  of  the  play  by  introducing  an  independent 
centre  of  interest.  In  the  romantic  reading  of  the 
law,  on  the  other  hand,  the  largest  freedom  has  always 
been  conceded  in  the  use  of  episodes  and  subordinate 
incidents  and  characters.  Unity,  according  to  this 
view,  is  not  incompatible  with  complexity  ;  it  does 
not  mean  singleness  of  action  ;  it  means  merely 
organic  connection  and  coherence.  Minor  actions  or 
subplots  are  therefore  admitted  on  the  one  condition, 
which  is  however  indispensable,  that  all  the  elements 
of  the  plot  are  woven  together  and  made  inter- 
dependent as  co-operating  factors  in  the  evolution  of 
the  plot  as  a  whole.  Here  again  it  is  evident  that  the 
difference  between  the  two  conceptions  ultimately 
rests  upon  the  difference  between  the  assumptions 
from  which  the  two  schools  of  dramatic  theory 
respectively  start  ;  that  of  the  neo-classic  being  that 
the  drama  should  aim  at  ideal  simplicity  ;  that  of  the 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  325 

romantic,  that  it  should  reflect  the  variety  and 
complexity  of  actual  life.  Our  romantic  drama,  then, 
is  habitually  a  drama  of  compound  plot.  It  is 
important,  however,  to  hold  fast  to  the  principle  that 
the  variety  and  complexity  which  delight  us  in  it  must 
not  be  obtained  at  the  sacrifice  of  that  organic  whole- 
ness upon  which  I  have  just  laid  stress.^  The  law  of 
dramatic  structure  requires  that  there  shall  be  a  well- 
marked  central  interest  to  which  all  other  interests  are 
duly  subordinated  ;  that  as  Dryden  happily  puts  it,  the 
pawns  on  the  chess-board  shall  be  made  of  service  to 
the  "  greater  persons  "  ;  ^  that  all  the  lines  of  action 
shall  run  together  in  a  single  catastrophe.  Such 
unity  through  complexity  is  achieved,  for  example,  in 
Much  Ado  about  Nothing,  in  which  the  two  principal 
plots,  though  for  a  time  practically  independent, 
coalesce  in  the  church  scene  (IV.  i.),  and  in  which  the 
episodical  watchmen  have  a  vital  part  in  working  out 
the  main  intrigue.  But  Shakespeare  is  often  guilty 
of  violating  the  law  of  structural  unity.  His  plots 
frequently  hang  very  loosely  together.  The  Winter's 
Tale  is  really  two  plays  rolled  into  one.  In  Julius 
Ccssar,  as  in  the  English  chronicle-dramas,  he  fails 
to  reduce  the  scattered  events  of  history  to  artistic 
consistency.  Many  of  his  plays  suffer  from  a  plethora 
of  matter.  Marvellous  as  is  the  skill  with  which  the 
two  distinct  stories  in  King  Lear  have  been  dovetailed 
into  one  another,  there  are  critics  who  hold,  with 
Freytag,  that  the  tragedy  loses  more  than  it  gains  by 
its  immense  and  almost  bewildering  intricacy.  In 
numerous  instances  secondary  incidents  and  characters 
are    allowed  to  expand  until  they  occupy  a    wholly 

^  See  anU,  p.  186.  ^  Essay  of  Dramatic  Poesie, 


326  THE  STUDY  OP  LITERATURE 

disproportionate  place  in  the  general  scheme,  the 
balance  and  symmetry  of  which  are  thus  destroyed. 
While,  for  instance,  we  should  be  unwilling  to  suppress 
a  single  detail  in  the  great  Falstaffian  comedy  in 
Henry  IV.,  criticism  has  still  to  insist  that  from  the 
strictly  artistic  point  of  view  there  is  in  fact  altogether 
too  much  of  it ;  that  it  forms  by  itself  a  separate  play 
within  the  play  ;  that  it  is  so  brilliant  and  so  fascinating 
that  it  not  only  splits  the  interest  but  even  throws  the 
main  plot  into  the  background  ;  and  that,  finally,  it  is 
to  be  condemned  also  because  it  has  no  real  connection 
with  the  business  of  the  historic  action.^ 

One  other  important  point  of  contrast  between  our 
two  types  of  drama  has  still  to  be  noted.  They  differ 
fundamentally  in  their  methods  of  conducting  their 
plots. 

Faithfully  following  in  this  respect  the  practice  of 

the  Greeks  ^  and  the  precept  of  Horace  ^ — 
andAcUon.  "  Let  not  Medea    slay    her    children    before 

the  public  " — the  neo-classic  drama  depends 
almost  entirely  upon  narrative  ;  nearly  everything  that 
happens,  especially  everything  of  a  violent  character, 
happens,  in  technical  phraseology,  "  off,"  and  is  simply 
reported  to  the  audience.  In  the  ground-work  of  its 
story,  a  neo-classic  tragedy  often  contains  as  much 
sensational  material  as  the  most  romantic  of  romantic 
plays,  but  we  only  hear  of  the  incidents,  we  do  not 
witness  them.     Take,  for  example,  our  first  English 

^  It  is  probable  that  Shakespeare  realised  that  he  had  allowed  Falstaff 
to  run  away  with  him,  and  that  this  was  the  reason  why  he  broke  his 
promise  and  did  not  introduce  the  fat  knight  into  Henry  V.,  in  which  his 
purpose  clearly  was  to  focus  attention  from  first  to  last  upon  his  heroic 
central  figure. 

2  See  j4niti,  pp.  232,  233.  ^  Ars  Poetica,  1.  185. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  327 

tragedy,  Gorboduc.  The  "  argument  "  prefixed  to  this 
drama  runs  thus :  "  Gorboduc,  king  of  Brittaine, 
divided  his  realme  in  his  life-time  to  his  sonnes,  Ferrex 
and  Porrex  ;  the  sonnes  fell  to  discention  ;  the  yonger 
killed  the  elder ;  the  mother,  that  more  dearely  loved 
the  elder,  for  revenge  killed  the  yonger ;  the  people, 
moved  with  the  crueltie  of  the  fact,  rose  in  rebellion 
and  slew  both  father  and  mother ;  the  nobilitie 
assembled  and  most  terribly  destroyed  the  rebels  ; 
and  afterwardes,  for  want  of  issue  of  the  prince, 
whereby  the  succession  of  the  crowne  became  un- 
certaine,  they  fell  to  civill  warre,  in  which  both  they 
and  many  of  their  issues  were  slaine,  and  the  land  for 
a  long  time  almost  desolate  and  miserably  wasted." 
It  is  evident  that  such  a  plot — which,  like  that  of 
Hamlet,  literally  reeks  with  gore — provides  abundant 
material  for  vigorous  action  and  thrilling  situations. 
But  all  the  murder  and  bloodshed  take  place  behind 
the  scenes,  and  we  are  kept  informed  of  what  is  occur- 
ring by  descriptive  speeches  of  enormous  length.  So 
again  with  Le  Cid.  Two  duels  and  a  big  battle  are 
amply  sufficient  to  redeem  this  play  from  any  charge 
of  uneventfulness.  But  the  duels  are  simply  reported, 
while  instead  of  a  representation  of  the  battle,  such  as 
Shakespeare  would  have  given  us,  we  have  Rodrigue's 
vivid  account  of  it  in  a  magnificent  oration  of  seventy- 
three  lines.  The  only  thing  that  we  should  commonly 
regard  as  an  incident  which  occurs  on  the  stage 
is  at  the  very  beginning,  when  Don  Gomes  strikes 
Don  Diegue  across  the  face  with  his  glove ;  and  even 
this  was  condemned  by  the  Academy  as  a  breach  of 
dramatic  decorum. 

While   the   neo-classic   drama   is  thus  a  drama  of 


328  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

narrative,  the  romantic,  on  the  contrary,  is  essentially 
a  drama  of  action.  Nearly  everything  that  happens 
in  it  happens  on  the  stage,  and  duels  are  fought, 
murders  and  suicides  committed,  outrages  perpetrated, 
and  battles  waged,  in  full  view  of  the  spectators.  The 
great  public  of  the  virile  and  full-blooded  Elizabethan 
age,  with  their  over-flowing  energies,  their  thirst  for 
adventure,  their  love  of  stirring  deeds,  were  too  keenly 
interested  in  the  immense  and  many-sided  pageantry 
of  actual  life  to  tolerate  rhetorical  description  as  a  sub- 
stitute for  movement  and  representation  and  spectacle. 
For  dramatic  decorum  they  cared  nothing  ;  in  their 
craving  for  realistic  display  and  delight  in  seeing 
things  done,  they  accepted  the  crude  inadequacy 
(ridiculed  by  Ben  Jonson)  ^  with  which  the  battle 
scenes  were  perforce  enacted  ;  they  did  not  even 
recoil  from  sights  which  seem  to  us  too  shocking  for 
exhibition.  The  fact  must  never  be  overlooked  that 
the  plays  of  Shakespeare  and  his  contemporaries 
were  written  to  satisfy  this  enormous  appetite  for 
action. 

We  must  not  allow  our  familiarity  with  the  romantic 
drama,  and  our  general  adherence  to  its  principles,  to 
betray  us  into  the  supposition  that  representation  is 
always  to  be  preferred  to  narrative,  and  that  nothing 
is  to  be  said  in  favour  of  the  neo-classic  method 
While  the  greatest  scope  for  action  should  undoubtedly 
be  granted,  and  while  its  practical  absence  from  neo- 
classic  tragedy  necessarily  leaves  us  with  a  sense  oi 
baldness  and  unreality,  the  question  of  how  much  in 
any  given  case  shall  be  exhibited  and  how  much 
merely  reported  is  still  one  that  is  open  to  discussion. 

^  Prologue  to  Every  Man  in  his  Humour. 


THE  STUDY  OP  THE  DRAMA  329 

Here  indeed  we  touch  upon  an  important  and  some- 
times very  difficult  problem  of  dramatic  technique.  It 
may  fairly  be  argued  that  Shakespeare's  numerous 
battle  scenes  are  really  unfortunate  concessions  to  the 
taste  of  the  "  groundlings  "  of  his  time,  that  in  many 
instances  they  are  more  than  a  trifle  absurd,  and  that 
his  plays  would  often  have  been  vastly  improved  by 
their  excision.  A  similar  judgment  may  safely  be 
passed  upon  the  great  "  realistic "  scenes — the  fires, 
and  floods,  and  railway  accidents — of  modern  melo- 
drama. The  contention  of  Dryden's  Lisideius,^  that 
"  those  actions  which  by  reason  of  their  cruelty  will 
cause  aversion  in  us,^  or  by  reason  of  their  impossi- 
bility, unbelief,  ought  either  to  be  wholly  avoided  by 
the  poet,  or  only  delivered  by  narration,"  is  also, 
broadly  speaking,  perfectly  sound.  Nor  is  the  widely 
current  notion,  to  which  even  Horace  lent  his  authority 
— that  "  things  heard  make  a  feebler  impression  than 
things  seen  "  ^ — by  any  means  universally  true,  for  the 
impressiveness  of  representation  may  frequently  be 
marred  by  imperfection  of  detail,  as  in  many  of  the 
boasted  sensational  effects  of  the  modern  stage  ;  while, 
as  common  experience  teaches,  there  are  countless 
cases  in  which  an  appeal  to  the  imagination  is  much 
more  powerful  than  one  to  actual  sight.  Shakespeare 
gives  us  many  murders,  but  it  is  surely  a  significant 
fact  that  the  most  terrible  of  all — that  of  Duncan  in 
Macbeth — takes  place  off  the  stage.      We  must  also  be 

^  Essay  of  Dramatic  Poesie. 

2  Such,  for  example,  as  that  rare  instance  of  actual  barbarity  in  the 
Shakespearean  drama — the  plucking  out  of  Gloucester's  eyes  on  the  stage 
{King  Lear,  III.  vii.),  and  the  horrible  exhibition  of  the  mutilated 
Lavinia  in  the  pseudo-Shakespearean  Titus  Andronicus,  II  iv. 

^  Ars  Foetica,  1.  180. 


330  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE  ^^. 

on  our  guard  against  too  narrow  an  interpretation  of 

action  and  incident.      This  point  is  well  emphasised  in 

Dryden's  Essay — "  'Tis  a  great  mistake  in  us,"  says 

Lisideius,  "  to  believe  the  French  present  no  part  of 

the  action  on  the  stage  :  every  alteration  or  crossing 

of  a  design,  every  new-sprung  passion,  and  turn  of  it, 

is  a  part  of  the  action,  and  much  the  noblest,  except 

we  conceive  nothing  to  be  action  till  the  players  come 

to  blows." 

The  reference  just  made  to  the  murder  of  Duncan 

suprgests  one  point  to  which  the  student  of 
Narrative 
and  Action  Shakespeare  will    do    well    to    devote   some 

in  Shake-    attention.      Like  other  romantic  playwrights, 

Shakespeare  leans    strongly  towards    action. 

His  usual  practice  is  to  put  as  mxuch  of  his  story  as 

is  possible  on  the   stage.     But  every  now  and  then 

we  come  upon  marked  exceptions  to  this  general  rule 

— upon  scenes  in  which  important  events  are  thrown 

into  narrative  instead  of  being  represented  ;  and  then 

the  question  naturally  arises  as  to  the  reason  which 

prompted  him  to  depart  from  his  customary  plan.      I 

need  hardly  say  that  there  is  no  one  answer  to  this 

question  which  will  meet  all  cases.     Sometimes  it  is 

evident,  he  is  governed  by  mere  practical   necessity. 

Sometimes    we    shall     find    that    he    has    substituted 

narrative  for  action  for  the  purpose  of  condensing  a 

large  amount  of  material  which  would  otherw^ise  have 

become  unmanageable,  or  which  would  have  occupied 

too    much    space.      But    sometimes,    as    the    briefest 

investigation  will    show,  neither    of   these    superficial 

explanations  will  serve,  and  the  cause  will  then  have 

to  be  sought  in  considerations  of  artistic  purpose  and 

effect.     Macbeth    will    suffice    to    illustrate    all    these 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  331 

phases  of  the  subject.  Though  Macbeth's  head  is 
immediately  afterwards  brought  on  the  stage,  the 
actual  decapitation  takes  place  behind  the  scenes. 
This  we  can  scarcely  hesitate  to  ascribe  to  practical 
necessity.  The  flight  of  Malcolm  and  Donalbain  to 
England  and  Ireland  provides  an  example  of  narrative 
condensation.  But  two  incidents  of  the  utmost  import- 
ance occur  "off" — the  murder  of  Duncan,  which  has 
led  to  this  discussion,  and  the  death  of  Lady  Macbeth. 
In  neither  of  these  instances  can  any  considerations  of 
necessity  or  condensation  be  alleged,  both  could  have 
been  represented  perfectly  well,  and  the  play  is  so  short 
that  time  could  easily  have  been  spared  for  them. 
Why  then  is  neither  of  these  enacted  ?  Here  the 
question  resolves  itself  into  one  of  artistic  purpose 
and  effect,  and  the  answer  to  it  is  not,  I  think,  very 
far  to  seek.  After  the  awful  sleep-walking  scene  in 
which  appropriate  nemesis  overtakes  the  guilty  queen, 
the  actual  exhibition  of  her  death  would  have  been 
almost  an  anticlimax,  while  coming  where  it  does,  its 
significance  for  us  is  not  so  much  in  the  incident  itself, 
as  in  the  revelation  it  is  made  to  furnish  of  the  condition 
of  her  husband's  mind.  In  the  great  murder-scene  the 
real  tragedy  manifestly  lies  not  in  the  murder  as  a 
physical  fact,  but  in  the  emotional  stress  which  accom- 
panies it — not  in  the  death  of  the  king,  but  in  the 
souls  of  his  slayers.  This  essential  tragedy  is  driven 
home  upon  us  with  infinitely  greater  force  in  the  scene 
as  it  stands — heightened  as  it  is  with  all  the  accessories 
of  horror — than  would  have  been  the  case  had  the 
murder  been  done  before  our  eyes,  because  our  attention 
is  never  for  a  moment  distracted  by  the  details  of  the 
crime  as  such.     It    is  the    concentration    of  all    our 


332  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

interest  upon  the  inner  meaning  of  the  situation  that 
makes  it  so  tremendous  and  overwhelming. 

Such,  then,  are  some  of  the  fundamental  difterences 
in  principle  and  method  between  the  neo-classic  and 
the  romantic  types  of  drama,  each  of  which  has, 
in  its  own  particular  way,  triumphantly  justified 
itself  by  a  brilliant  history  and  many  masterpieces. 
The  drama  of  our  own  time,  while  it  must  not  be 
passed  over  in  silence,  may  be  much  more  briefly 
dismissed. 

The  product  of  an  age  of  eclecticism  and  experiment 
in  every  department  of  art,  the  modern  drama 
The  Con-  exhibits  so  many  varieties  that  no  summary 
Drama.  statement  of  its  characteristics  would  be 
possible.  Keeping  to  generalities,  however, 
we  may  say  that,  in  the  sense  that  it  is  quite  indifferent 
to  all  academic  rules  and  conventions,  it  carries  on  the 
romantic  tradition.  It  habitually  assumes  an  absolute 
freedom  as  to  time  and  place  of  action  ;  it  consults  its 
own  convenience  only  in  the  use  of  subplots  and 
subordinate  interests ;  it  has  no  scruple  about  the 
combination  of  the  serious  and  the  comic ;  action  and 
narrative  are  employed  in  it  without  reference  to 
precepts,  and  simply  as  the  exigencies  of  the  plot  may 
dictate.  Little  trace,  morever,  is  anywhere  to  be 
found  in  it  of  the  aristocratic  limitations  of  older 
tragedy.  Here  even  the  prepossessions  of  the  romantic 
stage  have  been  abandoned,  and  under  the  co-operating 
influences  of  the  democratic  spirit  and  of  realism  the 
Domestic  Drama,  the  avowed  aim  of  which  is  to  hold 
the  mirror  up  to  ordinary  human  life,  has  definitely 
established  itself  as  the  most  completely  representative 
form  of  modern  dramatic  art — the  form  in  which,  with 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  333 

few  exceptions,  its    most   noteworthy  work  has  been 
done. 

Yet  while  always  holding  themselves  at  liberty  to 
pursue  their  own  course  without  regard  to  the  theories 
of  the  older  schools,  it  happens  that  some  of  our 
greatest  recent  dramatists  tend  in  various  ways  to- 
wards the  principles  of  the  neo-classic  play.  This  is 
pre-eminently  the  case  with  the  chief  masters  of  the 
Domestic  Drama,  in  which  mere  convention  of  every 
kind  is  most  openly  defied.  Referring  to  the  three 
unities,  a  writer  on  practical  stage  technique  has  said  : 
"  At  the  present  time  the  terms  no  longer  have  any 
meaning,  save  in  the  historical  sense,  when  speaking 
of  plays  written  under  the  influence  of  the  old  rules  of 
criticism.  No  one  pretends  to  regard  them  at  the 
present  day."  ^  So  far  as  any  conscious  recognition  of 
these  rules  simply  as  rules  is  concerned,  this  is  un- 
doubtedly true.  But  if  the  unities  are  not  obeyed  as 
a  matter  of  theory,  they  are  often  more  or  less  closely 
observed  in  practice.  If  we  turn,  for  example,  to  the 
work  of  the  most  skilful  as  well  as  most  powerful  of 
modern  playwrights,  Ibsen,  we  occasionally  find  a 
concentration  of  treatment  even  in  excess  of  that 
required  by  the  most  rigorous  upholders  of  the  neo- 
classic  view.  The  whole  action  of  Ghosts^  for  instance, 
passes  in  one  room  and  occupies  only  a  few  hours  of 
a  single  day.  In  The  Pillars  of  Society  and  Hedda 
Gabler  the  scene  never  changes ;  in  John  Gabriel 
Borkman,  the  correspondence  of  stage  time  with 
actual  time  is  approximately  complete.  Such  com- 
pactness and  condensation  are  largely  due  to  the 
mature    of    the     dramatist's    themes,    his     controlling 

^  Hennequin,  The  Art  of  Playiin-ighting,  p.  89, 


334  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

psychological  purpose,  and  his  whole  conception  of 
structure  and  effect.  But  we  must  also  remember 
that  throughout  the  modern  drama  in  general  the 
elaborate  methods  of  stage-representation  now  in 
vogue  have  tended  to  make  frequent  changes  of  scene 
both  difficult  and  costly,  and  thus  through  mere  stress 
of  practical  necessity  the  extreme  laxity  of  the  old 
romantic  play  has  been  for  the  most  part  abandoned. 
In  realistic  drama  the  unities  of  time  and  place  are 
now  very  commonly  preserved  within  each  act. 

This  leads  us  to  touch  upon  one  other  feature  in 
which  Ibsen,  and  many  modern  playwrights  whom  we 
may  roughly  class  as  belonging  to  his  school,  often 
revert  not  only  to  neo-classic  methods,  but  also  to  the 
principles  of  the  pure  Greek  type  of  tragedy.  Since 
it  was  entirely  unchecked  in  respect  of  time  and 
place,  the  romantic  drama  could  represent  the  whole 
of  a  story,  however  long  and  intricate.  Since  it  was 
severely  limited  in  respect  of  time  and  place,  Greek 
tragedy,  on  the  other  hand,  was  compelled  to  confine 
its  action  to  the  closing  portions  of  its  story,  leaving 
all  antecedent  circumstances  to  be  explained  by 
dialogue  and  retrospective  narrative.  The  difference 
becomes  clear,  if,  for  example,  we  compare  Macbeth 
with  CEdipus  the  King.  In  the  one  case,  the  action 
on  the  stage  begins  with  the  rise  of  the  motive  of 
ambition  in  Macbeth's  mind.  In  the  other  case,  it 
begins  only  at  the  moment  when  the  predictions  of 
the  oracle  are  about  to  be  fulfilled.^     Thus  a  Greek 

^  In  the  Shakespearean  drama  the  difference  may  be  illustrated  by  a 
comparison  of  The  Winter  s  Tale  and  The  Tempest — the  one  ultra- 
romantic  in  design,  the  other  quite  classic.  "Had  The  Tempest  h^oxs. 
written  on  the  plan  of  The  Winter's  Tale,  the  long  story  unfolded  in 
Prospero's  retrospective  narrative  would  have  occupied  the  earlier  acts  of 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DEAMA  335 

tragedy  may  be  regarded  from  the  point  of  view  of 
the  matter  which  actually  falls  within  the  performance 
as  equivalent  to  the  denouement — to  the  fourth  and 
fifth  acts,  or  sometimes  even  to  the  fifth  act  only — of 
a  romantic  play.^  Ibsen's  work  provides  some  striking 
examples  of  the  same  structural  plan.  The  roots  of 
his  actions  often  run  far  down  into  the  past  ;  but  when 
the  curtain  rises  on  the  first  scene,  we  have  already 
reached  the  beginning  of  the  end,  and  the  stage- 
representation  is  concerned  only  w4th  the  last  term  of 
a  long  series  of  events.  Such  is  the  case  with  Ghosts 
and  Rosmersholm.  In  these  plays,  moreover,  as  in 
CEdipus  the  King^  an  immense  amount  of  space  is 
necessarily  devoted  to  the  elucidation  of  those 
antecedent  circumstances  which  constitute  the  foun- 
dations of  the  tragedy  which  we  are  asked  to  wit- 
ness. In  dramas  of  this  type,  therefore,  exposition 
often  undergoes  enormous  expansion  ;  it  continues 
through  the  action,  and  belongs  indeed  to  its  very 
substance. 

the  drama,  and  the  denouement  would  have  been  condensed  into  the 
closing  two  acts.  Had  The  Winter  s  Tale  been  written  on  the  plan  of 
The  Tempest,  the  matter  of  the  first  three  acts  would  have  been  thrown 
into  retrospective  narrative,  and  the  whole  play  devoted  to  the  love  story 
of  Perdita  and  the  restoration  of  Hermione "  {Introduction  to  The 
Winters  Tale,  in  the  Elizabethan  Shakespeare,  p.  xxi.  note). 

^  See  Haigh's  The  Tragic  Drama  of  the  Greeks,  pp.  337-342.  This 
must  be  borne  in  mind  in  analysing  the  structure  of  a  Greek  tragedy 
according  to  the  principles  previously  given.  Prof.  Moulton  has  made 
an  ingenious  attempt  to  emphasise  the  differences  between  Greek  and 
Shakespearean  tragedy  in  this  and  other  respects  by  a  reconstruction 
of  Macbeth  in  the  form  of  a  classic  play  (see  his  Ancient  Classical 
Drama,  chap.  vi.). 


336  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

VII 

Thus    far  we    have  dealt  almost  wholly  with   the 

technical  aspects  of  the  study  of  the  drama. 

Drama  as    But  since,  like  all  other  kinds  of  literature, 

Criticism     ^^le   drama   has   also   to   be    judged   on    the 
of  Life.  J      i> 

broad  basis  of  its    moral   power  and  value, 

something  must   be   added   about    it   as   the    vehicle 

of  a  criticism  or  philosophy  of  life. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  go  again  over  the  ground 
which  we  have  already  traversed  in  the  closing  section 
of  our  chapter  on  prose  fiction  ;  the  more  so,  as  in 
our  consideration  of  the  novelist's  criticism  of  life  the 
dramatist  was  specifically  included.  Everything  that 
was  then  said  about  the  importance  of  the  ethical 
element  in  any  work  of  fiction,  whether  in  the 
narrative  or  in  the  dramatic  form,  and  about  the 
moral  standards  which  have  to  be  applied  to  it,  may, 
therefore,  be  taken  for  granted  without  repetition. 
Our  only  concern  now  is  with  the  way  in  which  the 
drama  interprets  life. 

Here  we  are  brought  back  again  to  that  funda- 
mental distinction  between  the  novel  and  the  drama 
upon  which  we  have  more  than  once  had  to  dwell 
at  length.  In  theory,  the  drama  is  entirely  objective  ; 
the  novel  permits  the  continual  intrusion  of  the 
personality  of  the  writer.  Thus,  as  we  have  shown, 
the  novelist  may  interpret  life  both  indirectly  by  his 
exhibition  of  it,  and  directly  by  his  comments  upon 
it.  The  dramatist  is  supposedly  limited  to  the  former 
indirect  method.  "  A  novel,"  says  Henry  James,  "  is, 
in  the  broadest  definition,  a  personal    impression    of 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  337 

life."'  *"  The  drama,  on  the  contrary,  may  be  regarded, 
from  the  strictly  theoretical  standpoint,  as  an  im- 
personal representation  of  life.  Hence  we  shall  always 
find  it  far  more  difficult  in  the  case  of  a  drama  than 
in  the  case  of  a  novel  to  reduce  the  writer's  consciously 
given  or  unconsciously  suggested  philosophy  to  formal 
statement.  The  novelist,  as  I  have  said,  often  helps 
us  greatly  in  this  task  by  his  own  incidental  inter- 
pretations. The  whole  burden  of  responsibility  in 
reading  his  meaning,  and  making  explicit  what  he 
gives  only  by  implication,  is,  according  to  the  commonly 
accepted  view,  thrown  by  the  dramatist  on  our 
shoulders. 

It  will  be  observed,  however,  that  in  speaking  of 
the  impersonality  of  the  drama,  I  have  done  so  with 
qualifications.  I  have  said  that  in  theory  the  drama 
is  entirely  objective,  and  that  the  dramatist  is  sup- 
posedly limited  to  the  indirect  method  of  interpretation. 
The  drama  is  indeed  the  most  completely  objective 
form  of  literary  art ;  the  novel  combines  the  objective 
with  the  subjective.  Dealing  with  the  matter  in  a 
general  way,  therefore,  we  cannot  well  over-emphasise 
the  importance  of  the  fact  that,  unlike  the  novelist, 
the  dramatist  can  never  appear  in  proper  person  in 
his  action.  But  it  has  still  to  be  remembered 
that  in  practice  he  has  often  contrived  a  way  of 
escape  from  the  cramping  restraints  imposed  upon 
him  by  the  conditions  under  which  he  has  to 
work.  If  he  cannot  appear  in  proper  person  in  his 
action,  he  may  none  the  less  make  his  presence 
felt  there  in  the  person  of  some  accredited  repre- 
sentative. 

^  TAe  Art  of  Fiction  in  Partial  Portraits, 


338  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Such  an  accredited  representative  may  undoubtedly 
be  recognised  in  the  Chorus  of  many  Greek  tragedies, 
the  significance  of  whose  interpretative  functions  has 
already  been  pointed  out.  To  accept  the  Chorus  as 
an  "  ideal  spectator "  is  tantamount  to  regarding  its 
utterances  as  having  special  authority  as  an  expression 
of  the  thoughts  and  feelings  which  the  poet  would 
wish  that  his  plot  should  arouse  in  ourselves.  The 
Chorus  in  Greek  tragedy  then  is  often,  though  not 
necessarily  or  always,  the  delegate  of  the  poet,  and 
the  mouthpiece  of  his  philosophy  of  life.  On  the 
modern  stage  this  mediating  element  is  no  longer  at 
the  dramatist's  disposal.  But  that  its  place  is  some- 
times, and  to  a  certain  extent,  taken  by  one  of  the 
characters  in  a  drama  is  shown  by  the  fact,  already 
noted,  that  such  a  character  is  occasionally  picked  out 
by  the  commentators  and  described  as  the  "  Chorus  " 
of  the  action.  We  have  previously  spoken  of 
Enobarbus  as  a  kind  of  chorus  in  Antony  and 
Cleopatra^  because  in  his  detachment  from  the  queen 
he  helps  to  put  us  at  the  right  point  of  view  in  regard 
to  her,  while  by  his  comments  at  critical  moments  in 
the  action  he  brings  out  the  meaning  of  Antony's 
degeneration  under  the  spell  of  the  "  serpent  of  old 
Nile."  I  have  elsewhere  said  of  Berowne,  in  Love's 
Labour^s  Lost,  that  though  it  is  uncritical  to  see  in 
him  "either  a  deliberate  study  in  self-portraiture  or 
an  unconscious  reflection  of  the  personality  of  the 
author,"  he  "  does  stand  a  little  apart  from  the  other 
characters,"  is  "  nearer  to  Shakespeare  than  any  of 
them,"  and  is  in  fact  from  time  to  time  "  pushed  forward 
as  the  designed  interpreter  of  the  dramatist's  own 
thought ",  to  whom  is  entrusted  the  business  of  under- 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  339 

scoring  the  moral.^  Even  more  distinctly  is  the 
Bastard  the  chorus  in  King  John  \  for  though,  like 
Berowne,  he  makes  all  his  comments  in  his  own  proper 
character,  there  is  no  possibility  of  mistaking  the 
significance  of  his  soliloquy  on  "  Commodity,  the  bias 
of  the  world,"  or  of  that  splendid  outburst  of  fervid 
patriotism  with  which  he  closes  the  play,  and  in  which 
indeed  he  strikes  the  keynote  of  all  Shakespeare's 
chronicle-dramas.  In  modern  "  thesis-plays  " — plays 
in  which  the  main  purpose  of  the  dramatist  is  to  open 
up  moral  problems  or  expound  specific  opinions — we 
often  find  some  one  character  whose  principal  function 
in  the  plot  (whether  or  not  he  has  also  any  active 
part  in  it)  is  clearly  to  move  through  it  as  a  philosophic 
spectator,  and  to  formulate  its  meaning  on  the  writer's 
behalf.  So  prominent  has  such  an  expositor  become 
in  this  class  of  drama  that  French  critics  have  adopted 
a  special  name  for  him  ;  they  call  him  the  "  raisonneur." 
There  are  numerous  examples  of  the  raisonneur  in  the 
plays  of  the  younger  Dumas  and  other  playwrights  of 
the  doctrinaire  school.  As,  according  to  his  own  well- 
known  declaration,  Ibsen's  mission  was  to  ask  questions 
and  not  to  answer  them,  the  real  expositor  is  rare  in 
his  work.  But  we  have,  I  think,  a  case  in  point  in 
the  cynical  Dr  Relling  in  that  strangest  and  most 
puzzling  of  all  his  social  dramas,  The  Wild  Duck. 
"  Life  might  yet  be  quite  tolerable,"  says  the  doctor, 
*'  if  only  we  were  left  in  peace  by  these  blessed  duns 
who  are  continually  knocking  at  the  doors  of  us  poor 
folk  with  their  '  ideal  demand.'  "  Just  as  truly  as  the 
closing  words  of  a  Sophoclean  chorus  serve  to  strike 

1  Introduction  to  Loves  Labour's  Lost^  in  the  Elizabethan  Shakespeare, 
pp.  xxxiii.,  xxxiv. 


340  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

"  the  final  balance "  of  the  action,  does  this  remark 
sum  up  the  pessimistic  moral  which  Ibsen  designs  his 
play  to  enforce. 

It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  point  out  that  great  care 
must  always  be  exercised  in  the  search  for  a  chorus 
or  expositor.  Because  a  certain  character  in  a  play 
talks  a  good  deal  and  expresses  his  opinions  more 
freely  and  more  explicitly  than  any  other  person  on 
the  stage,  it  is  not  hastily  to  be  assumed  that  what  he 
says  carries  with  it  the  authority  of  the  dramatist 
himself.  His  utterances  must  be  rigorously  tested 
by  the  whole  spirit  and  tendency  of  the  action,  and 
only  when  it  is  evident  that  they  harmonise  with 
these  and  help  in  their  elucidation  are  we  warranted 
in  regarding  them  as  possessing  a  general  in  contradis- 
tinction to  a  merely  dramatic  value.  Some  commen- 
tators have  chosen  to  discover  in  the  melancholy 
Jaques  in  As  You  Like  It  the  representative  of  Shake- 
speare and  the  interpreter  of  his  view  of  life.  But  the 
entire  plot  is  surely  against  this  identification  ;  as 
Canon  Beeching  has  well  said,  "  We  know  that 
Shakespeare  does  not  mean  us  to  admire  Jaques's 
melancholy,  because  he  makes  all  the  healthy-minded 
people  in  the  play,  one  after  another,  laugh  at  it."  ^ 
In  the  same  way,  two  distinguished  German  critics, 
Gervinus  and  Kreyssig,  have  found  in  the  reflections 
of  Friar  Laurence  the  philosophic  text  of  Romeo  and 
Juliet,  and  basing  their  reading  upon  these,  have 
turned  a  young  poet's  superb  glorification  of  youthful 
love  into  a  sort  of  homily  against  unregulated  passion. 
That  the  Friar's  moralisings  do  give  us  one  point  of 
view   from   which   the   tragedy   may   be    regarded    is 

^  William  Shakespeare^  p.  89. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  341 

undeniable  ;  but  that  this  point  of  view,  while  most 
appropriate  to  the  speaker,  in  the  least  represents 
Shakespeare's,  the  whole  burden  of  the  drama  makes 
it  impossible  to  believe. 

The  chorus  or  raisonneur  is,  however,  an  occasional 
figure  only  in  the  drama,  and  unless  he  is  properly 
disguised  by  having  a  real  part  to  play  in  the  plot, 
criticism  is  justified  in  objecting  to  him  entirely.  We 
have  therefore  to  ask  whether,  keeping  more  strictly 
within  the  bounds  of  impersonal  art,  and  without  having 
recourse  to  this  device  of  direct  representation,  the 
dramatist  may  not  still  find  an  opportunity  of  convey- 
ing to  the  audience  his  own  thoughts  and  feelings. 
The  answer  is  that  he  may  do  this  through  the  utter- 
ances of  his  various  characters,  who,  while  never  ceas- 
ing to  speak  in  accordance  with  their  personalities  and 
situations,  may  none  the  less  be  utilised  by  him  as 
exponents  of  his  ideas  about  men  and  things. 

Here  we  have  to  be  on  our  guard  against  what  Prof 
Moulton  has  called  "  the  Fallacy  of  Quotations."  ^ 
This  fallacy  is  familiar  to  us  all  through  the  typical 
case  of  our  own  greatest  dramatist,  from  whose  plays 
maxims  and  judgments  are  continually  cited  as  illus- 
trations of  what  "  Shakespeare  says,"  without  regard 
to  the  fact  that  every  one  of  these  passages  was 
spoken  in  character,  and  must  therefore  be  primarily 
accepted  only  at  its  dramatic  value  as  an  expression 
of  the  mind  of  the  speaker.  No  mere  miscellaneous 
collection  of  quotations  or  "  beauties ''  will  serve  to 
throw  the  slightest  light  for  us  upon  the  essential 
principles  of  Shakespeare's  own  thought  ;  and  Prof. 
Moulton  does  well  to  warn  us  against  any  attempt  to 

^  7 he  Moral  System  of  Shakespeare,  p.  i. 


342  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

penetrate  into  these  principles  by  the  wholly  uncritical 
method  of  taking  even  the  wisest  and  most  pregnant 
sayings  out  of  their  context  and  referring  them 
directly  to  the  dramatist  himself.  But  he  is  surely 
guilty  of  serious  exaggeration  when  he  writes  : 
"  Dramatic  differs  from  other  literature  in  this,  that 
quotations  from  a  play  can  never  reveal  either  the 
mind  of  the  author  or  the  spirit  of  the  drama.  .  .  .  For 
every  word  in  a  play  some  imaginary  speaker,  and 
only  he,  is  responsible  ;  and  thus  in  dramatic  literature 
no  amount  of  quotations  can  give  us  the  mind  of  the 
poet  or  the  meaning  of  the  poem."  ^  I  do  not  question 
that  this  is  a  perfectly  correct  statement  of  the  abstract 
theory  of  the  drama — of  its  ideal  objectivity.  But  I 
contend  that,  as  the  above  remarks  on  the  chorus  and 
raisonneur  have  shown,  this  abstract  ideal  is  not 
always  realised  in  practice,  and  that  it  was  not 
always  realised  even  by  Shakespeare.  Prof.  Moulton's 
protest  against  the  use  of  quotations  in  the  interpre- 
tation of  Shakespeare's  thought  must,  therefore,  be 
taken  with  much  modification.  Can  we  doubt  that 
the  dramatist  does  sometimes,  wittingly  or  unwittingly, 
drop  the  mask,  and  give  utterance  to  sentiments  for 
which  he,  and  not  his  imaginary  character  and  spokes- 
man, is  responsible  ? — that,  to  take  only  one  outstand- 
ing example,  it  is  Shakespeare  and  not  Hamlet  who 
unpacks  his  heart  in  musings  over  "  the  proud  man's 
contumely,  the  pangs  of  despised  love,  the  law's  delay," 
who  discourses  on  the  drunkenness  of  his  fellow- 
countrymen,  who  lectures  the  players  on  the  art  of 
acting,  and  complains  of  the  popularity  of  the  boy- 
actors  of  the  Queen's  Revels  ?     In  all  these  passages, 

^  The  Moral  System  of  Shakespeare^  p.  2. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DKAMA  343 

curiously  inappropriate  as  they  are  to  character  and 
situation,  we  are  listening,  it  is  obvious,  not  to  Hamlet 
but  to  Shakespeare  :  even  so  conservative  a  critic  as 
Prof.  Boas  admits  that  they  put  "  out  of  court  all 
a  priori  theories  of  Shakespeare's  pure  objectivity."  ^ 
But  Hamlet  is  an  exceptional  case.  It  is  more 
important  therefore  to  insist  that  even  when  he 
does  not  thus  manifestly  drop  the  mask  —  even 
when  his  characters  speak  entirely  in  accord- 
ance with  their  personalities  and  circumstances 
—  Shakespeare  again  and  again  gives  us  through 
their  lips  a  clear  indication  of  his  own  ideas 
and  judgments.  But  how  are  we  to  know  when  he 
does  this  ?  How  are  we  to  discriminate  —  as  no 
mere  miscellaneous  collection  of  "  beauties "  will  en- 
able us  to  discriminate— between  the  passages  which 
are  simply  dramatic  and  those  which,  while  still 
dramatic,  may  safely  be  read  as  representing  Shakes- 
peare's own  mind  ?  The  answer  is  one  which,  I  believe, 
every  intelligent  student  who  is  not  hampered  by  "  a 
priori  theories  of  Shakespeare's  pure  objectivity " 
must  have  discovered  for  himself  "  We  can,"  as 
Canon  Beeching  says,  "  observe  the  sentiments  put 
into  the  mouths  of  those  characters  with  whom  we  are 
plainly  meant  to  sympathise,  and  contrast  them  with 
those  that  are  put  into  the  mouths  of  other  characters 
with  whom  we  are  meant  not  to  sympathise.  This," 
Mr  Beeching  rightly  adds,  "  is  a  consideration 
sufficiently  obvious,  but  it  is  too  often  neglected, 
although  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance  in  the  interpre- 
tation of  the   dramas."  ^      Nor  is  this  quite  all.      Mr 

^  Shahs  per e  and  his  Predecessor  s^  p.  389. 
2  William  Shakespeare^  pp.  91,  92. 


344  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Beeching  might  also  have  remarked,  though  he  has 
not  done  so,  that  even  the  characters  v/ith  whom  we 
are  not  meant  to  sympathise  may  very  clearly  at 
times  be  used  to  bear  indirect  and  unwilling  testimony 
to  moral  truths  formerly  defied  by  them,  and  expressed 
perhaps  by  characters  with  whom  we  are  meant  to 
sympathise.  "  The  gods  are  just,"  says  Edgar,  at  the 
end  of  King Lear^  "and  of  our  pleasant  vices  make 
instruments  to  plague  us."  And  Edmund  replies : 
"Thou  hast  spoken  right,  'tis  true;  the  wheel  has 
come  full  circle  ;  I  am  here."  Edmund's  villainy  has 
brought  about  its  own  fitting  nemesis,  and  even  more 
than  Edgar's  generalisation  does  this  final  admission 
on  his  part  of  the  reality  of  the  moral  law  which  he 
has  broken  provide  the  dramatist's  commentary  upon 
this  part  of  his  plot.  In  our  attempt  to  interpret  a 
dramatist's  criticism  of  life,  therefore,  guidance  may 
properly  be  sought  in  the  systematic  examination  and 
collation  of  the  sentiments  distributed  among  the 
characters.  But  the  principle  already  laid  down  in 
connection  with  the  chorus  must  again  be  emphasised. 
Every  utterance  of  every  character  must,  as  I  have 
put  it,  be  rigorously  tested  by  the  whole  spirit  and 
tendency  of  the  action. 

This  brings  us  to  our  last  point.  It  is  in  the  whole 
spirit  and  tendency  of  the  action  that  a  dramatist's 
criticism  of  life  is,  after  all,  most  fully  embodied.  In 
dealing  with  the  ethical  aspects  of  prose  fiction  I 
quoted  with  approval  Prof.  Moulton's  remark  that 
"  every  play  of  Shakespeare,"  critically  examined, 
turns  out  to  be  "  a  microcosm,  of  which  the  author  is 
the  creator,  and  the  plot  is  its  providential  scheme." 
It  can   never  be   too   often   repeated    that  the    world 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  DRAMA  345 

which  the  dramatist  calls  into  being,  with  all  its 
men  and  women,  actions,  passions,  motives,  struggles, 
successes,  failures,  is  a  world  of  his  own  creation — a 
world  for  which,  when  the  last  word  about  objectivity 
in  art  has  been  said,  he  alone  is  responsible.  Now, 
because  it  is  a  world  of  his  own  creation,  it  must  of 
necessity  be  the  projection  of  his  own  personality  ;  of 
necessity  it  must  reveal  the  quality  and  temper  of  his 
mind,  the  atmosphere  through  which  he  looked  out 
upon  things,  the  direction  of  his  thought,  the  lines  of 
his  interests,  the  general  meaning  which  life  had  for 
him.  It  is  quite  true  that  to  express  the  spirit  and 
tendency  of  his  work  in  any  abstract  statement  which 
will  satisfy  us  as  comprehensive  and  final,  is  often  very 
difficult,  and  sometimes  impossible.  But  by  carefully 
analysing  the  total  impression,  intellectual  and  moral, 
which  that  work  makes  upon  us,  we  shall  gain  a  broad 
sense  at  least  of  the  dramatist's  underlying  philosophy 
of  life. 

Note  to  page  308. — In  referring  the  genesis  of  Greek  tragedy  to  the 
primitive  Dionysiac  dithyramb,  I  adopted  the  theory  which  was  still  in 
almost  undisputed  possession  of  the  field  at  the  time  when  the  present 
pages  were  written.  This  theoryhasnowbeenchallengedbyProf.Ridgeway 
in  his  Origin  of  Tragedy^  with  Special  Reference  to  the  Greek  Tragedians, 
published  in  19 10.  Prof.  Ridge  way  maintains  with  great  learning  and 
skill  that  tragedy  in  fact  arose,  not  out  of  the  rustic  worship  of  Dionysus, 
but  out  of  ancestor- worship  or  the  cult  of  the  dead.  In  my  judgment  he 
has  made  out  a  very  strong  case  for  this  view,  and  his  book  is  one  which 
every  student  of  the  Greek  drama  should  read.  At  the  same  time,  the 
substitution  of  the  one  theory  for  the  other  would  make  no  difference  to 
the  general  principles  enunciated  in  the  text.  It  is  still  conceded  that 
Greek  tragedy  was  choric  in  origin,  and  thus  the  statement  is  correct  that 
"the  chorus  belonged  to  Greek  tragedy  because  it  was  the  germ  from 
which  it  sprang." 


CHAPTER    VI 

THE    STUDY    OF    CRITICISM    AND    THE    VALUATION 
OF    LITERATURE 

I 

IN  its  strict  sense  the  word  criticism  means 
judgment,  and  this  sense  commonly  colours 
our  use  of  it  even  when  it  is  most  broadly 
employed.  The  literary  critic  is  therefore  regarded 
What  is  primarily  as  an  expert  who  brings  a  special 
Criticism?  faculty  and  training  to  bear  upon  a  piece  of 
literary  art,  or  the  work  of  a  given  author,  examines 
its  merits  and  defects,  and  pronounces  a  verdict  upon 
it.  Yet  when  we  speak  of  the  literature  of  criticism 
we  evidently  include  under  the  term  more  than  the 
literature  which  records  judgment.  We  comprehend 
under  it  the  whole  mass  of  literature  which  is  written 
about  literature,  whether  the  object  be  analysis,  inter- 
pretation, or  valuation,  or  all  these  combined.  Poetry, 
the  drama,  the  novel,  deal  directly  with  life.  Criticism 
deals  with  poetry,  the  drama,  the  novel,  even  with  criti- 
cism itself.  If  creative  literature  may  be  defined  as  an 
interpretation  of  life  under  the  various  forms  of  literary 
art,  critical  literature  may  be  defined  as  an  interpreta- 
tion of  that  interpretation  and  of  the  forms  of  art 
through  which  it  is  given. 

The  prejudice  often  expressed  against  criticism  is 
thus    easily    explained.       Our    first    business    with    a 
346 


CBITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    347 

great  author  is  with  the  author  himself.  It  is  his 
work  that  we  want  to  understand,  and  to 
understand  for  ourselves.  What  then,  it  is  objections 
frequently  asked,  is  the  use  of  so  many  inter-  *?  ^"*^- 
mediaries?  Why  should  we  consume  time 
in  reading  what  someone  else  has  said  about  Dante 
or  Shakespeare,  which  we  might  surely  employ  much 
more  profitably  in  reading  Dante  and  Shakespeare 
themselves  ?  We  have  so  many  books  about  books 
that  our  libraries  are  being  choked  with  them,  and  our 
attention  distracted.  Nor  is  this  the  worst.  The 
enorm.ous  growth  in  recent  times  of  the  parasitic  litera- 
ture of  explanation  and  commentary  has  in  turn  bred  a 
fast-multiplying  race  of  secondary  parasites — of  critics 
who  write  about  critics,  and  undertake  to  interpret 
their  interpretation  of  the  interpretation  of  life  pre- 
sented in  real  literature.  We  have  therefore  an  ever- 
increasing  number,  not  only  of  books  about  books,  but 
also  of  books  about  books  about  books.  We  have  his- 
tories of  criticism  ;  we  have  analytical  studies  of  the 
methods  of  this  critic  and  that ;  we  have  magazine 
articles  in  which  such  studies  are  summarised  and 
discussed.  We  are  thus  tempted  to  get  our  know- 
ledge of  much  of  the  world's  greatest  literature  at 
second-hand,  or  even  at  third  hand.  Scherer  examines 
Paradise  Lost,  Then  Matthew  Arnold  examines 
Scherer's  examination  of  Paradise  Lost.  We  may  be 
much  interested  in  what  Scherer  thinks  about  Milton, 
and  in  what  Arnold  thinks  of  Scherer's  view  of  Milton, 
and  perhaps  in  some  other  person's  view  of  Arnold's 
opinion  of  Scherer  as  a  critic  of  Milton.  But  mean- 
while there  is  a  serious  danger  lest,  our  whole  leisure 
being  devoted  to  Scherer  and  Arnold,  Milton's  own 


348  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATtJEE 

work  may  remain  unread.  Is  not  the  critic,  therefore 
a  mere  cumberer  of  the  ground  ?  At  best,  the  study 
of  criticism  can  be  no  substitute  for  the  study  of  the 
literature  criticised.  At  worst,  it  may  stand  in  the 
way  of  such  study  by  inducing  us  to  rest  content  with 
that  superficial  sort  of  knowledge  about  books  and 
their  authors,  which,  as  I  have  already  insisted,  is  a 
vitally  different  thing  from  personal  knowledge  of  the 
books  and  authors  themselves. 

These  objections  are  quite  intelligible,  and  in  an 
age  when  creative  literature  is  undoubtedly  in  peril 
of  being  overlaid  by,  and  practically  buried  under,  a 
growing  mass  of  exposition  and  commentary,  due 
weight  must  certainly  be  given  to  them.  Against  the 
abuse  of  criticism,  as  a  marked  feature  in  the  in- 
tellectual life  of  our  time,  a  protest  may  therefore  be 
very  justly  made.  But  we  are  not  for  this  reason  to 
deny  the  utility  of  criticism.  It  has  its  legitimate 
place  and  function. 

Let  me  emphasise  in  passing  a  point  which  is  com- 
Criticism  ^no^ty  lost  sight  of.  The  distinction  between 
as  Litera-  the  literature  which  deals  directly  with  life, 
^^^'  and  the  literature  which  deals  with  literature, 

fundamental  as  it  may  at  first  seem,  is  after  all  an 
artificial  one.  Literature  is  made  out  of  whatever 
interests  us  in  life.  But  personality  is  manifestly  one 
of  the  chief  facts  in  life,  and  one  of  the  most  pro- 
foundly interesting.  It  follows,  therefore,  that  the 
critic  who  undertakes  the  interpretation  of  the  per- 
sonality of  a  great  writer  as  it  is  revealed  in  his  work, 
and  of  that  work  in  all  its  varied  aspects  as  the  ex- 
pression of  the  man  himself,  is  just  as  truly  dealing 
with  life  as  was  the  poet  or  dramatist  whose  writings 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    349 

form  the  subject  of  his  study.  A  noble  book  is  as 
living  a  thing  as  a  noble  deed,  and  the  processes  of 
art  are  just  as  vital  as  those  which  are  involved  in 
any  other  of  life's  many-sided  activities.  This  view 
has  been  admirably  expressed  by  Mr  William  Watson, 
who,  to  the  objection  that  he  has  too  often  sought  "  in 
singers'  selves " — in  the  work  of  other  poets — his 
"  theme  of  song,"  replies  that  he  has  taken  the  great 
poets  as  his  matter  deliberately, 

"  Holding  these  also  to  be  very  part 
Of  Nature's  greatness,  and  accounting  not 
Their  descants  least  heroical  of  deeds." 

So  far  as  the  current  prejudice  against  criticism  is 
based  upon  its  supposed  difference  in  kind  from  that 
creative  literature  which  draws  matter  and  inspiration 
directly  from  life,  it  has  thus  to  be  set  aside.  True 
criticism  also  draws  its  matter  and  inspiration  from 
life,  and  in  its  own  way  it  likewise  is  creative. 

It  is  important  therefore  to  distinguish  between  the 
abuse  and  the  use  of  criticism.  This  fortunately  is  a 
problem  which  presents  no  serious  difficulty.  We 
can  easily  learn  from  our  own  experiences  when  the 
reading  of  criticism  becomes  a  snare,  and  when  it  is 
of  help  to  us. 

To  put  the  matter  broadly,  it  becomes  a  snare 
whenever  we  remain  satisfied  with  what 
someone  else  has  said  about  a  great  author  Abuse  of 
instead  of  going  straight  to  that  author,  and  criticism, 
trying  to  master  his  work  for  ourselves.  Short  cuts 
to  knowledge  are  now  being  rapidly  multiplied  in 
literature  as  well  as  in  all  other  fields  of  study ;  and 
in  the  rush  of  life,  and  the  stress  of  conflicting  interests, 
we  are  sorely  tempted  to  depend  upon  them  for  in- 


350  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUKE 

formation  about  many  writers  of  whom  the  world 
talks  freely,  and  of  whom  we  should  like  to  be  able 
to  talk  freely  too,  but  with  whom  we  have  not  the 
time,  or  perhaps  not  the  patience,  to  become  acquainted 
on  our  own  account.  To  read  the  Odyssey  through  is  a 
task  from  which  many  of  us  may  recoil  on  the  ground 
that  it  is  very  long,  and  that  there  are  so  many  other 
things  that  we  are  equally  anxious  to  read.  Such  a 
handy  little  epitome  of  the  contents  of  that  wonderful  old 
poem  as  is  provided  in  the  Ancient  Classics  for  English 
Readers  seems  therefore  exactly  to  suit  our  needs.  Now 
it  is  not  to  be  assumed,  as  it  is  in  fact  assumed  too 
often  by  writers  on  the  subject,  that  such  dependence 
upon  the  literature  of  exposition  is  open  to  unqualified 
condemnation.  The  matter  must  be  treated  practic- 
ally, and  to  say  that  we  should  try  to  read  for  our- 
selves every  book  in  the  world's  literature  that  is 
worth  reading  at  all,  is,  so  far  as  the  majority  of  us 
are  concerned,  to  lay  down  a  counsel  of  perfection. 
If  the  question  takes  the  form,  as  it  often  must,  as  to 
whether  the  Odyssey  is  to  remain  an  entirely  sealed 
book  for  us,  or  whether  we  are  to  get  some  idea  of 
its  story  and  characters  at  second  hand,  then  I  for 
one  should  not  hesitate  to  answer  that  it  is  far  better 
to  know  something  about  the  poem  from  the  briefest 
sketch  of  it,  than  to  know  nothing  about  it  at  all. 
Life  is  short,  our  margin  of  leisure  generally  limited, 
the  special  line  of  our  individual  interests  often  of 
necessity  narrowly  defined ;  and  thus  out  of  the 
enormous  mass  of  the  world's  really  great  literature 
that  portion  which  we  can  ever  hope  to  make  a 
personal  possession  is  small  indeed.  Our  curiosity 
concerning  many  important   writers   who   lie   beyond 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    351 

our  opportunities  or  our  chosen  field  of  study,  our 
wish  to  understand  something  of  their  character,  pro- 
duction, place  and  influence,  are  perfectly  natural  and 
justifiable,  and  it  would  be  absurd  to  argue  that  we 
should  not  freely  turn  to  service  what  others  have 
written  about  them,  using  this,  if  needs  be,  as  a  sub- 
stitute for  our  own  reading  of  their  work,  or  perhaps 
as  a  guide  for  subsequent  use  to  what  is  most  valuable 
for  us  in  it.  Everyone  will  admit,  for  example,  that 
Voltaire  is  one  of  the  greatest  men  of  letters  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  As  such,  he  is  interesting  both 
in  himself  and  on  account  of  the  enormous  place 
which  he  fills  in  the  literary  history  of  his  time. 
About  such  a  man,  and  about  his  work,  certain 
questions,  sooner  or  later,  are  sure  to  arise.  What 
did  he  really  stand  for  ?  what  were  his  aims  ?  his 
methods  ?  his  achievements  ?  How  much  of  his  work 
is  important  only  from  the  historical  point  of  view  ? 
How  much  of  it  has  any  permanent  value,  and  why  ? 
To  such  questions  we  should  be  glad  to  obtain  at 
least  a  general  answer.  But  Voltaire's  separate 
publications  number  upwards  of  260  ;  he  wrote  society 
verses  and  epic  poems,  dramas  and  dramatic  criticism, 
history  and  biography,  philosophical  tales  and  philo- 
sophical treatises.  For  the  ordinary  English  reader 
the  mass  of  this  immense  and  varied  output  must  of 
necessity  remain  an  unexplored  territory.  But  mean- 
while he  will  find  in  Lord  Morley's  admirable  volume 
of  under  400  pages  a  compact  and  luminous  study  of 
the  man,  his  milieu,  his  work  ;  and  the  careful  perusal 
of  this  will  give  him  a  far  better  idea  of  Voltaire's 
genius,  power,  limitations  and  accomplishment  than  it 
would  be  possible  for  him  to  derive  from  hasty  and 


352  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

undirected  efforts  to  acquaint  himself  directly  with 
Voltaire's  own  work.  Again,  among  the  countless 
minor  writers  in  all  literatures  there  are  many  who 
deserve  some  attention,  because,  as  Matthew  Arnold 
very  justly  says,  being  in  their  own  way  "  real  men 
of  genius,"  and  thus  having  ''  a  genuine  gift  for  what 
is  true  and  excellent,"  they  are  "  capable  of  emitting 
a  life-giving  stimulus."  It  is  therefore  "  salutary  from 
time  to  time  to  come  across  a  genius  of  this  kind, 
and  to  extract  his  honey,"  for  "  often  he  has  more 
of  it  for  us  .  .  .  than  greater  men."  ^  But  to  read 
many  of  these  writers  in  their  entirety  for  ourselves  is 
manifestly  impossible,  and  we  may  thus  be  grateful 
to  the  intermediary,  who  extracts  the  honey  for  us, 
and  sets  it  before  us  in  available  form.  Modest  such 
service  may  be  ;  but  it  is  of  inestimable  value,  and  we 
have  every  right  to  take  advantage  of  it. 

To  say  that  we  must  never  depend  upon  other 
people  for  our  knowledge  of  authors  and  books  is  there- 
fore to  be  guilty  of  gross  exaggeration.  But  the 
general  importance  of  the  principle  that  our  chief 
business  is  directly  with  literature,  and  not  with  even 
the  best  critical  interpretation  of  literature,  is  none  the 
less  not  to  be  impugned.  "  Some  books,"  as  Bacon 
says,  "  may  be  read  by  deputy "  ;  yet,  as  he  rightly 
adds,  "distilled  books  are  like  common  distilled 
waters,  flashy  things."  If  the  primary  aim  of  literary 
study  be  the  cultivation  of  intimate  personal  relations 
between  student  and  writer,  then  our  too  frequent 
practice  of  contenting  ourselves  with  books  about  books 
can  scarcely  be  too  strongly  deprecated.  The 
essential  virtue  of  a  great  book,  its  individual  power, 

^  Essay  on  Joubert^  in  Essays  in  Criticism,  First  Series. 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITEBATUKE    353 

its  "  life-giving  stimulus,"  can  be  felt  in  their  fulness 
only  through  immediate  contact.  They  cannot  be 
transmitted,  save  in  a  very  slight  degree,  by  any  agent 
or  expositor.  A  vi^ell-known  American  professor  once 
told  me  of  a  student  of  his  who  came  to  him  with  the 
question  :  What  was  the  best  book  he  could  read  on 
Timon  of  Athens^  on  which  he  was  then  writing  an 
essay.  My  friend's  reply  was  :  "  The  best  book  you 
can  read  on  Timon  of  Athens  is — Timon  of  Athens T 
This  was  a  view  of  the  matter  which  apparently  had 
not  occurred  to  the  inquirer,  who  went  away  a  sadder 
and  wiser  man.  It  is  a  view  which  is  too  often 
neglected  by  most  of  us.  No  analysis  or  criticism 
of  a  book,  let  it  therefore  be  repeated,  can  ever  be  an 
adequate  substitute  for  our  own  personal  mastery  of 
the  book  itself.  The  labour  which  we  bestow  on  a 
determined  effort  to  gain  such  mastery  is,  as  a  means 
of  literary  culture,  of  infinitely  greater  value  than  any 
knowledge  of  the  book  which  we  obtain  from  the 
outside. 

This  suggests  another  danger  inherent  in  our 
continual  recourse  to  the  literature  of  exposition  and 
commentary.  We  are  too  apt  to  accept  passively 
another  person's  interpretation  of  a  book  and  his 
judgment  upon  it.  This  danger  is  the  more  to  be 
emphasised  because  it  increases  with  the  power  of  the 
critic  himself.  If  he  is  a  really  great  critic — that  is,  if 
he  is  a  man  of  exceptional  learning,  grasp,  and  vigour 
of  personality — he  is  likely  to  impose  himself  upon  us. 
Painfully  aware  by  contrast  of  his  strength  and  our 
own  shortcomings,  we  yield  ourselves  to  him.  He 
dominates  our  thought  to  such  an  extent  that  we  take 
his  verdict  as  final.  Henceforth  we  look  at  the  book, 
z 


354  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

not  with  our  own  eyes,  but  through  his.  We  find 
in  it  what  he  has  found  there,  and  nothing  else. 
What  he  has  missed,  we  miss  too.  Our  reading  runs 
only  on  the  lines  that  he  has  laid  down.  Thus,  in  fact, 
he  stands  between  us  and  his  subject,  not  as  an 
interpreter,  but  as  an  obstacle.  Instead  of  leading  us, 
he  blocks  the  way.  Personal  intercourse  with  our 
author  is  prevented,  and  the  free  play  of  our  mind 
upon  his  work  is  made  impossible. 

Yet  serious  as  are  the  results  which  follow  from  the 
abuse  of  criticism,  its  real  use  in  the  study  of  literature 
The  Use  of  is  not  for  a  moment  to  be  called  in  question. 
Criticism,  ^o  deny  its  service  is  tantamount  to  asserting 
either  that  no  one  else  can  ever  be  wiser  than  our- 
selves, or  that  we  can  never  profit  by  another  person's 
deeper  experience  or  superior  wisdom.  The  chief 
function  of  criticism  is  to  enlighten  and  stimulate. 
If  a  great  poet  makes  us  partakers  of  his  larger  sense 
of  the  meaning  of  life,  a  great  critic  may  make  us 
partakers  of  his  larger  sense  of  the  meaning  of 
literature.  The  true  critic  is  one  who  is  equipped 
for  his  task  by  a  knowledge  of  his  subject  which,  in 
breadth  and  soundness,  far  exceeds  our  own,  and  who 
moreover  is  endowed  with  special  faculties  of  insight, 
penetration,  and  comprehension.  Surely,  it  would  be 
the  height  of  impertinence  to  assume  that  such  a  man 
will  not  see  a  great  deal  more  than  we  do  in  a  given 
masterpiece  of  literature,  and  the  extreme  of  folly  to 
imagine  that  with  his  aid  we  may  not  discover  in  it 
qualities  of  power  and  beauty,  a  wealth  of  interest  and 
a  depth  of  significance,  to  which,  but  for  that  aid,  we 
should  in  all  probability  have  remained  blind.  The 
critic  often  gives  us  an  entirely  fresh  point  of  view  ; 


CEITIOISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    355 

often,  too,  renders  particular  assistance  by  translating 
into  definite  form  impressions  of  our  own,  dimly 
recognised  indeed,  but  still  too  vague  to  be  of  practical 
value.  He  is  sometimes  a  pathfinder,  breaking  new 
ground  ;  sometimes  a  friendly  companion,  indicating 
hitherto  unperceived  aspects  of  even  the  most  familiar 
things  we  pass  together  by  the  way.  Thus  he  teaches 
us  to  re-read  for  ourselves  with  quickened  intelligence 
and  keener  appreciation.  Nor  is  this  all.  He  fre- 
quently helps  us  most  when  he  challenges  our  own 
judgments,  cuts  across  our  pre-conceived  opinions,  and 
gives  us,  in  Emerson's  phrase,  not  instruction,  but 
provocation.  If  we  read  him,  as  we  should  read  the 
literature  of  which  he  discourses,  with  a  mind  ever 
vigilant  and  alert,  it  will  matter  little  whether  we 
agree  with  or  dissent  from  what  he  has  to  tell  us. 
In  either  case  we  shall  gain  by  contact  with  him  in 
insight  and  power. 


II 

As  already  implied,  criticism  may  be  regarded  as 
having  two  different  functions — that  of  interpretation 
and  that  of  judgment.      It  is  indeed  true  that 
in  practice  these  two  functions  have  until  our    Functions 

own  time  been  generally  combined,  since  the    0^ 

.     .,  r       .f.  ,  M  .    .  .J         Criticism, 

majority  of  critics,  while  conceiving  judg- 
ment to  be  the  real  end  of  all  criticism,  have  freely 
employed  interpretation  as  a  means  to  that  end. 
Within  recent  years,  however,  the  distinction  has  been 
forced  into  prominence  by  various  students  of  literature, 
who,  setting  the  two  functions  in  opposition,  have  more 
or  less  consistently  maintained  the  thesis  that  the  critic's 


356  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

chief  duty  is  exposition,  even  if  (and  this,  as  we  shall 
see,  has  been  denied)  he  is  ever  warranted  in  venturing 
beyond  exposition  into  questions  of  taste  and  valuation. 

Accepting  for  the  moment  this  view  of  the  scope 
The  Critic  ^^^  limitations  of  criticism,  we  have  to  ask, 
as  Inter-  what  is  it  that  the  critic  as  interpreter  should 
^^®  ^^'  set  out  to  accomplish  ?  The  answer  will 
show  that,  even  as  thus  defined,  his  task  is  both 
large  and  difficult.  His  purpose  will  be  to  penetrate 
to  the  heart  of  the  book  before  him  ;  to  disengage  its 
essential  qualities  of  power  and  beauty ;  to  distinguish 
between  what  is  temporary  and  what  is  permanent  in 
it ;  to  analyse  and  formulate  its  meaning  ;  to  elucidate 
by  direct  examination  the  artistic  and  moral  principles 
which,  whether  the  writer  himself  was  conscious  of 
them  or  not,  have  actually  guided  and  controlled  his 
labours.  What  is  merely  implicit  in  his  author's  work 
he  will  make  explicit.  He  will  exhibit  the  inter- 
relations of  its  parts  and  the  connection  of  each  with 
the  whole  which  they  compose.  He  will  gather  up 
and  epitomise  its  scattered  elements,  and  account  for 
its  characteristics  by  tracing  them  to  their  sources. 
Thus,  explaining,  unfolding,  illuminating,  he  will  show 
us  what  the  book  really  is — its  content,  its  spirit,  its 
art  ;  and  this  done,  he  will  leave  it  to  justify  and 
appraise  itself  "  To  feel  the  virtue  of  the  poet  or  the 
painter,  to  disengage  it,  to  set  it  forth — these,"  says 
Walter  Pater,  "are  the  three  stages  of  the  critic's 
duty." 

In  the  execution  of  his  task  such  a  critic  will,  of 
course,  follow  his  own  particular  line  of  exposition. 
He  may  confine  himself  strictly  to  the  book  in  hand, 
and  fix  his  attention  wholly  upon  what  he  finds  there. 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    357 

He  may  elucidate  it  by  systematic  reference  to  other 
works  of  the  same  author.  He  may  throw  light  upon 
it  from  the  outside  by  adopting  the  method  of  com- 
parison and  contrast.  He  may  go  further  afield  and 
seek  his  clue  in  the  principles  of  historical  interpreta- 
tion. But  whatever  his  plan,  his  one  aim  is  to  know, 
and  to  help  us  to  know,  the  book  in  itself  He  will 
pass  no  definitive  verdict  upon  it  from  the  point  of 
view  of  his  own  taste,  or  of  any  organised  body  of 
critical  opinion. 

An  elaborate  statement  of  the  aims  and  methods  of 
the  critic  as  interpreter  will  be  found  in  the  long  plea 
for  a  purely  scientific  kind  of  literary  criticism  with 
which  Prof  Moulton  prefaces  his  study  of  Shakespeare 
as  a  Dramatic  Artist.  "  The  prevailing  "inductive" 
notions  of  criticism,"  Mr  Moulton  points  out,  criticism. 
"  are  dominated  by  the  idea  of  assaying,  as  if  its 
function  were  to  test  the  soundness,  and  estimate  the 
comparative  value,  of  literary  work.  Lord  Macaulay, 
than  whom  no  one  has  a  better  right  to  be  heard  on 
the  subject" — (this,  I  may  say  in  passing,  seems  to 
me  a  much  exaggerated  view  of  Macaulay's  importance 
as  a  critic) — "  compares  his  office  of  reviewer  to  that  of 
a  king-at-arms,  versed  in  the  laws  of  literary  procedure, 
marshalling  authors  to  the  exact  seats  to  which  they 
are  entitled.  And,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  bulk  of 
literary  criticism,  whether  in  popular  conversation  or 
in  discussions  of  professed  critics,  occupies  itself  with 
the  merits  of  authors  and  works  ;  founding  its  estimates 
and  arguments  on  canons  of  taste,  which  are  assumed 
as  having  met  with  general  acceptance,  or  deduced 
from  speculations  as  to  fundamental  conceptions  of 
literary   beauty."      In   opposition   to   these  ideas,   Mr 


358  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

Moulton  advocates  the  principles  of  what  he  calls 
"inductive"  criticism.  The  name  itself  betrays  the 
origin  of  the  proposed  method  in  the  powerful 
influence  of  modern  science ;  and  Mr  Moulton  dis- 
tinctly says  that  its  avowed  object  is  "to  bring  the 
treatment  of  literature  into  the  circle  of  the  inductive 
sciences."  Such  criticism  is,  indeed,  as  he  insists,  to 
be  regarded,  not  as  a  branch  of  literature,  but  as  a 
branch  of  science.  As  such,  it  seeks  scientific  accuracy 
and  scientific  impartiality.  *'  The  treatment  aimed  at 
is  one  independent  of  praise  or  blame,  one  that  has 
nothing  to  do  with  merit,  relative  or  absolute."  The 
inductive  critic,  like  the  investigator  in  any  other  field 
of  scientific  research,  with  whom  he  boldly  claims 
comradeship,  therefore  '"  reviews  the  phenomena  of 
literature  as  they  actually  stand,  inquiring  into  and 
endeavouring  to  systematise  the  laws  and  principles  by 
which  they  are  moulded  and  produce  their  effects," 
and  recognising  "  no  court  of  appeal  except  the 
appeal  to  the  literary  works  themselves."  Three 
important  points  of  contrast  may  thus  be  indicated — 
we  still  follow  Mr  Moulton — between  the  older  judicial 
and  the  new  inductive  methods.  In  the  first  place, 
judicial  criticism  is  largely  concerned  with  the  question 
of  the  order  of  merit  among  literary  works.  This 
question  lies  outside  of  science.  "  A  geologist  is  not 
heard  extolling  old  red  sandstone  as  a  model  rock- 
formation,  or  making  sarcastic  comments  on  the  glacial 
epoch."  As  a  scientist,  the  inductive  critic  knows 
nothing  about  differences  in  degree ;  he  knows  only 
differences  in  kind.  Contrasted  literary  methods — 
as,  e.g,  the  method  of  Shakespeare  and  the  method  of 
Ben  Jonson  in   the   drama — are   considered  by  him, 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    359 

not  as  higher  and  lower,  but  simply  as  distinct,  "  in 
the  way  in  which  a  fern  is  distinct  from  a  flower." 
Such  distinction  allows  "  no  room  for  preference 
because  there  is  no  common  ground  on  which  to 
compare."  The  differences  between  author  and  author 
are  therefore  to  be  marked  and  formulated,  but  no 
attempt  is  to  be  made  to  estimate  their  respective 
values.  Secondly,  judicial  criticism  rests  on  the  idea 
that  the  so-called  laws  of  literature  are  like  the  laws 
of  morality  or  the  laws  of  the  state — that  is,  that  they 
are  imposed  by  an  external  authority,  and  are  binding 
on  the  artist  as  the  laws  of  morality  and  of  the  state  are 
binding  on  the  man.  For  the  inductive  critic  such  laws 
do  not  exist.  For  him  the  laws  of  literature  are  precisely 
what  the  laws  of  nature  are  for  the  natural  scientist — 
not  conditions  superimposed  from  without,  but  "  facts 
reduced  to  formulae."  The  laws  of  nature  are  merely 
a  generalised  statement  of  the  order  actually  observed 
among  phenomena.  The  laws  of  literature  are  to  be 
taken  in  a  precisely  similar  sense.  They  express  what 
is,  not  what  conceivably  ought  to  be.  Thus  "  the 
laws  of  the  Shakespearean  Drama  are  not  laws  imposed 
by  some  external  authority  upon  Shakespeare,"  and 
for  obedience  to  which  he  has  to  be  held  responsible, 
"  but  laws  of  dramatic  practice  derived  from  the 
analysis  of  his  actual  works."  It  is  only  in  the 
language  of  metaphor,  therefore,  that  we  can  properly 
say  that  Shakespeare  "  obeys  "  such  or  such  "  laws  " 
of  the  drama,  as  it  is  only  in  the  language  of  metaphor 
that  we  can  properly  say  that  the  stars  ''  obey "  the 
law  of  gravitation.  The  critic's  business  is  thus  not 
to  test  Shakespeare's  practice  by  its  conformity,  or 
want  of  conformity,  to  certain    abstract  ideas  of  the 


36o  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUBE 

drama  or  to  rules  independently  drawn  up,  but  simply 
to  discover  by  direct  examination  of  his  plays  the 
principles  upon  which  they  were  written,  and  then  to 
reduce  the  results  of  such  examination  to  a  generalised 
statement.  This  leads  to  the  third  point  of  contrast 
between  the  judicial  and  the  inductive  methods. 
Judicial  criticism  proceeds  upon  the  hypothesis  that 
there  are  "  fixed  standards  "  by  which  literature  may 
be  tried  and  adjudged.  These  standards  have  varied 
greatly  with  different  critics  and  in  different  ages,  and 
this  fact  furnishes  us  with  one  reason  why  criticism 
in  general  has  so  frequently  fallen  into  disrepute  ;  yet 
the  existence  of  some  such  standards  has  none  the 
less  been  assumed.  Inductive  criticism  recognises  no 
fixed  standards,  and  indeed  denies  their  possibility. 
Like  all  other  phenomena  dealt  with  by  the  sciences, 
literature  is  a  product  of  evolution  ;  its  history  is  a 
history  of  unceasing  transformations  ;  and  thus  the 
quest  for  permanent  criteria  is  foredoomed  to  inevitable 
failure,  since  it  postulates  finality  where  in  the  very 
nature  of  things  no  finality  will  ever  be  found.^ 

Thus,  to  sum  up,  "  inductive  criticism  will  examine 
literature  in  the  spirit  of  pure  investigation  ;  looking 
for  the  laws  of  art  in  the  practice  of  artists,  and 
treating  art  like  the  rest  of  nature  as  a  thing  of 
continuous  development,  which  may  thus  be  expected 
to  fall,  with  each  author  and  school,  into  varieties  dis- 
tinct in  kind  from  one  another,  and  each  of  which  can 
be  fully  grasped  only  when  examined  with  an  attitude 

^  Contrast  the  following  emphatic  statement  in  an  early  number  of  the 
Edinburgh  Review. — "  Poetry  has  this  much  in  common  with  religion, 
that  its  canons  were  fixed  long  ago  by  certain  inspired  writers,  whose 
authority  it  is  no  longer  lawful  to  call  in  question." 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    361 

of  mind  adapted  to  the  special  variety  without  inter- 
ference from  without." 

According  to  this  view  of  its  functions,  then, 
criticism  has  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  the  supposed 
or  possible  value  of  a  piece  of  literary  art,  or  with 
our  personal  feelings  concerning  it.  Ignoring  all 
considerations  of  individual  taste  and  all  questions  of 
absolute  or  comparative  merit,  the  critic,  as  scientist, 
addresses  himself  wholly  to  the  labour  of  investigation. 
He  is,  as  Taine  once  phrased  it,  a  kind  of  botanist 
whose  subject-matter,  however,  is  not  the  phenomena 
of  plant-life,  but  those  of  literature. 

We  have  here,  it  will  be  seen,  a  theory  of  inductive 
criticism  which  carries  us  no  further  than  this — that 
the  law  of  each  author's  work  must  be  sought  within 
that  work  itself:  the  implication  being  that  the  law  so 
found  can  never  be  applied  to  the  work  of  any  other 
author,  and  therefore  can  never  be  used  as  a  standard 
of  judgment  or  even  as  a  guide.  This  conclusion 
raises  a  problem  which  we  shall  have  to  deal  with 
presently.  In  the  meantime  we  must  not  fail  to  note 
that  a  conception  of  criticism  is  possible  which,  while 
denying  the  validity  of  the  older  judicial  practice,  does 
not  necessarily  entail  the  repudiation  of  the  critic's 
right  to  estimate  and  judge.  The  key  to  this  concep- 
tion is  provided  by  the  principle  of  the  relativity  of 
literature  and  the  historical  method  of  interpretation. 
For  a  succinct  account  of  it  we  may  turn  to  a  great 
French  critic  already  named — M.  Edmond  Scherer. 
Taking  up  the  study  of  Paradise  Lost,  Scherer  was 
struck  by  the  diametrically  opposed  opinions  of  it  of 
two  such  men  as  Voltaire  and  Macaulay,  of  whom 
the  one   indulged  in  unmeasured  disparagement,  the 


362  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

other  in  unqualified  laudation.  Is  either  the  dis- 
paragement or  the  laudation,  he  asked,  to  be  taken  as 
a  real  verdict  upon  the  poem  ?  Does  either  give  us 
any  true  account  of  its  greatness,  its  shortcomings,  its 
place  among  the  masterpieces  of  literature  ?  Certainly 
not.  These  are  not  unbiassed  judgments  at  all ;  they 
are  merely  expressions  of  personal  idiosyncracies  in 
the  critics.  They  lack  entirely  that  quality  which 
beyond  all  others  we  should  demand  in  one  who  sets 
up  as  a  judge  of  literature — the  quality  of  detachment 
and  impartiality.  They  tell  us  what  a  brilliant 
Frenchman  of  the  eighteenth  century  and  what  a 
clever  Englishman  of  the  nineteenth  century  respect- 
tively  thought  about  Milton's  monumental  work  ;  but 
they  do  not  help  us  to  form  for  ourselves  a 
disinterested  judgment  upon  it.  As  they  stand,  they 
simply  cancel  one  another ;  our  own  prepossessions 
may  impel  us  towards  Voltaire's  view,  or  towards 
Macaulay's  ;  but  in  themselves  they  leave  us  uncon- 
vinced and  unenlightened.  How  then  shall  we 
ourselves  proceed  in  the  hope  of  establishing  a  point 
of  view  beyond  personal  feeling — a  point  of  view 
from  which,  irrespective  of  any  question  whether  we 
ourselves  enjoy  or  do  not  enjoy  the  poem,  we  may  see 
Paradise  Lost  as  it  really  is  ?  By  adopting,  Scherer 
replies,  the  modern  historical  method.  This  method,  he 
argues,  is  "  at  once  more  conclusive  and  more 
equitable  "  than  that  of  the  older  schools  of  criticism, 
because  it  "  sets  itself  to  understand  things  rather  than 
to  class  them,  to  explain  them  rather  than  to  judge 
them."  Its  aim  is  "  to  account  for  a  work  from  the 
genius  of  its  author,  and  from  the  turn  this  genius  has 
taken   from   the   circumstances  amidst   which   it   was 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    363 

developed."  Our  first  business  in  approaching  the 
study  of  Paradise  Lost^  therefore,  will  be  to  eliminate 
as  far  as  possible  all  personal  bias,  arising  either  from 
individual  temperament  and  predilections  or  from  the 
literary  habits  and  tastes  of  our  own  time  and  circle, 
and  to  "  account  for  "  the  poem — to  explain  it  as  it  is, 
in  all  its  varied  characteristics  of  matter  and  style — 
by  an  exhaustive  analysis  of  Milton's  genius  and 
environment — of  the  man  himself  and  the  sum  total  of 
the  influences,  intellectual,  artistic,  political,  which, 
whether  we  deem  it  to  have  been  for  good  or  evil, 
actually  left  their  impress  upon  him.^  Up  to  this 
point  the  critic  is  still  regarded  as  an  investigator, 
though  the  elements  of  personality  and  milieu — factors 
which  do  not  enter  into  Mr  Moulton's  scheme — are 
now  brought  forward  for  special  emphasis.  But  here 
Scherer  parts  company  with  those  who,  like  Mr 
Moulton,  decline  to  advance  from  interpretation  to 
judgment.  "  Out  of  these  two  things,"  he  maintains — 
"the  analysis  of  the  writer's  character  and  the  study 
of  his  age — there  spontaneously  issues  the  right  under- 
standing of  his  work  : "  and  this  right  understanding 
in  turn  furnishes  us  with  a  criterion  by  which  to 
estimate  its  position  and  value.  "  In  place  of  an 
appreciation  thrown  off  by  some  chance-comer,  we 
have  the  work  passing  judgment,  so  to  speak,  upon 

^  To  underline  the  moral  of  Scherer's  advice,  we  may  recall  the  case  of 
William  Morris,  who,  making  no  attempt  to  escape  from  himself  and  his 
age,  openly  expressed  his  dislike  of  Milton  on  the  ground  that  he  was  at 
once  a  puritan  and  classicist.  But  for  the  historical  student  the  fact  that 
Milton  uses  the  forms  of  the  classic  epic  and  the  humanistic  learning  of 
the  Renaissance  as  a  vehicle  for  his  puritan  philosophy,  is  of  the  utmost 
value  in  helping  him  to  "  account  for  "  Paradise  Lost,  and  therefore  in 
the  deepest  sense  to  understand  and  appreciate  it 


364  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

itself,  and  assuming  the  rank  which  belongs  to  it 
among  the  productions  of  the  human  mind."  ^ 

As  it  is  manifestly  no  part  of  our  present  plan  to 
undertake  any  comprehensive  discussion  of  modern 
theories  concerning  the  purposes  and  methods  of 
criticism,  these  two  writers  must  suffice  to  illustrate 
the  marked  tendency  of  our  time  to  regard  interpreta- 
tion as  the  chief,  if  not  the  only,  end  of  the  critic's 
task.  While  Mr  Moulton  rejects  judicial  criticism 
entirely,  M,  Scherer  endeavours  to  find  foundations 
for  such  criticism  deeper  and  more  stable  than  can 
ever  be  provided  by  a  priori  formulas  or  individual 
tastes.  But  the  English  critic  and  the  French  critic 
are  at  one  in  their  desire  to  escape  from  the  narrow, 
inflexible,  haphazard  methods  of  the  older  schools,  and 
in  their  attempt  to  carry  into  the  study  of  literature 
the  larger,  more  flexible  and  more  systematic  methods 
of  science. 

It  would  not  be  easy  to  exaggerate  the  importance 

of  the  fresh  leads  thus  indicated.     We  may 
Older  ^ 

Methods  of  follow  them  with  an  exhilarating  sense  that 

''Judicial"  i-jjgy  ^jii  assure  us  of  substantial  results  in  a 
Cnticism.  -^ 

real    and    living    knowledge    of    the    things 

which  concern  us  most  in  whatever  work  or  author  we 

may  take  up  for  our  study.      Lord  Morley  has  rightly 

protested   that  it   is   nothing   short  of  a   disgrace   to 

human  intelligence  that,   generation  after  generation, 

learned  men  should  have  continued  to  dispute  about 

the     meaning     of    Aristotle's    famous    dictum    about 

tragedy,  instead  of  going  straight  to  the  phenomena  of 

tragedy  and  inquiring  into  their  significance  for  them- 

^  In  these  citations  from  Scherer  I  have  adopted  Arnold's  translation 
as  given  in  his  essay,  A  French  Critic  on  Milton^  in  Mixed  Essays. 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    365 

selves.^  But  literary  criticism,  throughout  its  entire 
range,  was  long  crushed  in  this  way  beneath  the  dead 
weight  of  authority  and  the  tyranny  of  preconceived 
notions.  The  only  way  of  escape  possible  from  the 
fluctuations  of  individual  tastes  was  supposed  to  lie  in 
recourse  to  some  established  code.  Every  author  had 
therefore  to  be  judged  by  canons  applied  to  his  work 
from  the  outside,  while  the  quality  of  any  new  depar- 
ture in  literature  was  to  be  estimated  only  by  reference 
to  models — to  what  had  already  been  accomplished  by 
other  writers  at  other  times.  The  superstitious  venera- 
tion of  the  classics,  which  began  with  the  Renaissance 
and  lingers  in  scholastic  circles  even  to-day,  inspired  a 
general  belief  in  the  value  of  the  Greek  and  Latin 
writers  as  permanent  standards  of  excellence ;  and 
even  when  this  particular  theory  broke  down,  the 
critic's  practice  was  still  to  appeal  to  some  author  or 
school  of  authors  by  whom  the  true  laws  of  literature 
were  assumed  to  have  been  exemplified  once  and  for 
all.  Thus  criticism  too  often  degenerated  into  pedantic 
disquisitions  on  matters  of  little  real  importance,  and 
sterile  efforts  to  keep  production  within  certain  pre- 
scribed bounds.  It  became  conventional,  dogmatic, 
arbitrary.  It  condemned  all  deviation  from  the  lines 
it  had  chosen  to  lay  down  in  advance ;  as  in  the 
familiar  case  of  Shakespeare  who,  for  a  long  time  in 
France,  and  by  a  number  of  critics  even  in  England, 
was  pronounced  barbarous  and  inartistic  because  his 
work  did  not  conform  to  the  laws  of  that  "  classic " 
drama  which  had  been  postulated  as  the  ideal  type. 
Seeking  its  guidance  mainly  in  the  past,  such  criticism 
practically  denied   the  principle  of  development   and 

^  Diderot  and  the  Encyclopedists. 


366  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

the  right  of  the  new  spirit  in  Hterature  to  strike  out 
into  fresh  paths  for  itself.  It  ignored  the  great  fact 
emphasised  by  Wordsworth,  and  illustrated  again  and 
again  in  literary  history,  that  "  every  author,  as  far  as 
he  is  great  and  at  the  same  time  original,  has  had 
the  task  of  creating  the  taste  by  which  he  is  to  be 
enjoyed "  —  and  therefore,  it  may  be  added,  of 
establishing  the  standards  by  which  his  work  has  to 
be  adjudged. 

The  methods  and  results  of  this  older  kind  of 
criticism  may  be  studied  to  advantage  in  the  writings 
of  two  of  its  best-known  practitioners — Addison  and 
Johnson. 

Addison  undertakes  a  systematic  criticism  of 
niustra-  Paradise  Lost.  But  he  proceeds  upon  a 
tions:  plan  very  different  from  that  advocated  by 
Addison.  Schei-er.  He  does  not  seek  a  "  right  under- 
standing "  of  Milton's  poem  in  "  an  analysis  of  the 
writer's  character  and  the  study  of  his  age."  His 
method  is  to  "  examine  it  by  the  rules  of  epic  poetry, 
and  see  whether  it  falls  short  of  the  Iliad  and  the 
jiEneid  in  the  beauties  which  are  essential  to  that  kind 
of  poetry."  ^  How  are  we  to  discover  these  "  rules  " 
of  epic  poetry?  How  are  we  to  learn  in  what  "the 
beauties  which  are  essential "  to  it  actually  consist  ? 
By  the  careful  study  of  Homer,  Virgil,  and  Aristotle. 
By  the  tests  which  they  furnish  our  English  poet 
must  stand  or  fall.  Now,  it  must  not  of  course  be 
forgotten  that,  in  this  particular  instance,  a  certain 
justification  for  the  critic's  procedure  may  be  found  in 
the  fact  that  Milton  avowedly  fashioned  his  work 
upon  the  structural  principles  of  the  classic  epic,  and 

^  spectator.  No.  267. 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    367 

that  the  canons  applied  by  Addison  were  such  there- 
fore as,  in  the  main,  he  himself  would  have  been 
willing  to  accept.^  There  is  thus  a  vital  difference 
between  the  trial  of  Milton  by  "  the  rules  of  epic 
poetry "  and  the  trial  of  Shakespeare  by  the  canons 
of  the  classic  drama.  The  dogmatic  narrowness  of 
the  method  is  none  the  less  apparent  in  many  places ; 
as  when  the  critic  finds  fault  with  Milton's  "  fable  " — 
as  Dryden  had  done  before  him  ^ — because  "  the  event 
is  unhappy,"  while  Aristotle  had  laid  it  down  as  a 
general  rule  that  an  epic  poem  should  end  happily  ; 
and  when  he  complains  of  Milton's  allegories  that  they 
"rather  savour  of  the  spirit  of  Spenser  and  Ariosto, 
than  of  Homer  and  Virgil."  It  is  therefore  the  more 
curious  to  notice  that  in  one  case  Addison  recognises  in 
passing  the  principle  of  development  in  literature  and 
the  consequent  impossibility  of  taking  even  Aristotle's 
dicta  as  definitive  : — "  in  this,  and  some  other  very 
few  instances,"  he  writes,  in  concluding  his  survey  of 
Milton's  characters,  "  Aristotle's  rules  for  epic  poetry, 
which  he  had  drawn  from  his  reflections  upon  Homer, 
cannot  be  supposed  to  square  exactly  with  the  heroic 
poems  which  have  been  made  since  his  time,  since  it 
is  evident  to  every  impartial  judge  his  rules  would  still 
have  been  more  perfect  could  he  have  perused  the 
^neid,  which  was  made  some  hundred  years  after  his 
death."  This  incidental  admission,  prompting  as  it 
does  the  further  question,  would  not  Aristotle's  rules 
have    been    even    more    perfect    still    could   he    have 

^  See  ante,  pp.  75,  76,  and  contrast  Addison's  papers  on  the  ballads  ol 
Chevy  Chace  {Spectator^  Nos.  70  and  74),  and  The  Babes  in  the  Wood 
(No,  80),  in  which  the  constant  appeal  to  the  authority  of  Horace  and 
Virgil  is  to  us  so  inopportune  as  to  seem  absolutely  ludicrous. 

*  Discourse  on  Satire^ 


368  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

perused  not  only  the  ^neid  but  also  Paradise  Lost,  is 
manifestly  fatal  to  the  whole  conception  of  finality  in 
literature,  and  therefore  to  the  fundamental  assumptions 
on  which  Addison's  criticism  rests.^ 

Johnson's  criticism  is  equally  instructive.  As 
Macaulay  says,  he  *'  took  it  for  granted  that 
the  kind  of  poetry  which  flourished  in  his  own 
time,  which  he  had  been  accustomed  to  hear  praised 
from  his  childhood,  and  which  he  had  himself  written 
with  success,  was  the  best  kind  of  poetry."  ^  So  far 
as  he  depended  at  all  upon  criteria  or  precedents  for 
his  judgments,  it  was  in  this  poetry  that  he  sought 
them.  Tacitly,  if  not  expressly,  it  was  to  this  poetry 
that  he  always  appealed.  The  result  was  that  he  could 
see  little  meaning  or  merit  in  any  poetry  belonging  to 
a  different  class.  He  thus  failed  to  rise  to  the  greatness 
of  Shakespeare  and  Milton,  was  grossly  unjust  to  Gray, 
and  almost  consistently  opposed  and  ridiculed  every 
movement  in  literature  in  which — as  in  the  ballad 
revival  of  the  later  eighteenth  century — he  detected 
any  signs  of  revolt  against  what  was  for  him  the 
orthodox  literary  creed. 

^  Addison,  it  will  be  seen,  acknowledges  that  the  Father  of  Criticism 
drew  his  rules  for  epic  poetry  "from  his  reflections  upon  Homer" — that 
is,  that  he  proceeded  by  the  method  of  induction.  He  took  the  writings 
of  the  poets  he  knew  and  sought  to  discover  by  the  examination  of  them 
the  true  laws  of  epic  and  tragedy.  But  these  laws  are  only  generalised 
statements  of  the  poets'  practice.  In  this  sense,  therefore,  Aristotle  may 
be  regarded  as  a  fore-runner  of  Mr  Moulton.  It  was  not  his  fault  that 
the  Poetics  subsequently  became  an  obstruction  rather  than  a  guide.  The 
great  blunder  of  generations  of  modern  critics  was  that,  instead  of  follow- 
ing and  developing  his  method,  they  seized  upon  his  generalisations  and 
made  them  into  a  creed,  which  they  proclaimed  as  having  absolute 
authority  and  universal  applicability. 

2  Essay  on  BcswelPs  Johnson, 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    369 

If  now  we  turn  from  Addison  and  Johnson,  whom 
I  have  taken  as  popular  exponents  of  the  influence 
kind  of  criticism  which  prevailed  in  England  of  the 
down  to  comparatively  recent  times,  to  the  spirit  on 
writings  of  any  representative  critic  of  the  Criticism. 
Victorian  age,  we  at  once  become  conscious  of  an 
enormous  change.  The  older  view  of  the  purposes 
of  criticism  is  greatly  modified  even  where  it  is  not 
entirely  abandoned  ;  the  older  methods  are  practically 
obsolete.  It  is  not,  of  course,  to  be  supposed  that  our 
critics  have  ceased  to  regard  themselves,  and  to  be 
regarded  by  others,  as  in  a  sense  at  once  law-givers 
and  judges,  or  that  they  no  longer  express  personal 
preferences,  which  on  occasion  they  support  by  refer- 
ence to  canons  and  models.  It  is  only  here  and  there 
that  we  find  the  new  scientific  conception  carried  out 
so  rigorously  that  the  legislative  and  judicial  functions 
are  altogether  repudiated.  Elsewhere,  criticism  con- 
tinues to  appraise,  and,  in  appraising,  to  make  free  use 
of  aesthetic  principles  and  of  standards  of  comparison. 
Thus  even  Matthew  Arnold,  with  all  his  dread  of 
abstract  ideas  and  of  system-making,  was  still  pre- 
occupied with  questions  of  the  "  grand  style,"  which 
alone  is  to  be  pronounced  truly  "  classic,"  ^  and  with 
the  establishment  of  "  touchstones  "  of  poetry  ;  ^  while 
in  his  horror  of  the  vagaries  of  English  thought  he 
even  went  so  far  as  to  eulogise  the  French  Academy 
as  "  a  sovereign  organ  of  the  highest  literary  opinion, 
a  recognised  authority  in  matters  of  intellectual  tone 
and  taste.^     None  the  less,  the  general  transformation 

^  On  Translating  Homer. 
*  The  Study  of  Poetry  {Essays ^  Second  Series). 
'  Literary  Influence  of  Academies  {Essays,  First  Series). 
2  A 


370  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

is  unmistakable.  The  modern  critic — and  Arnold 
himself  may  be  taken  as  a  type — is  for  the  most  part 
more  anxious  to  understand  and  interpret  than  to 
distribute  praise  and  blame ;  while  that  spirit  of  eclec- 
ticism, which  is  one  of  the  salient  features  of  our 
age,  and  the  evolutionary  methods  which  are  fast 
invading  every  department  of  thought,  have  combined 
to  give  him  a  breadth  of  outlook,  a  catholicity 
of  comprehension  and  sympathy,  a  sense  of  change 
and  growth,  of  personality  and  historic  relationships, 
all  of  which  were  conspicuously  lacking  in  the  criticism 
of  the  older  schools. 

With  most  of  what  Mr  Moulton  says  so  forcibly 
The  Need  about  the  ineptitude  and  futility  of  the  criti- 
cattorTof^  cism  of  the  past,  we  of  the  present  generation, 
Judicial  bred  in  the  new  ways  of  thinking,  must  there- 
criticism.  ^Qj.^  cordially  agree.  At  the  same  time  it  is,  I 
believe,  impossible  to  follow  him  to  one  of  his  principal 
conclusions.  I  do  not  for  the  moment  discuss  the 
general  question  whether,  as  he  maintains,  literary 
criticism  can  ever  be  reduced  to  a  science  in  the 
same  way  as  botany  and  geology  have  been  reduced 
to  sciences.^  My  point  of  dissent  is  his  total  con- 
demnation of  judicial  criticism    as    such.       However 

^  A  consideration  which  Mr  Moulton  appears  to  have  overlooked  may 
here  just  be  touched  on.  As  Herbert  Spencer  showed,  the  work  of 
science  in  any  given  field  of  phenomena  is  never  completed  until  the 
generalisations  established  by  induction  have  been  explained  by  reference 
to  principles,  and  thus  restated  in  deductive  form.  Science,  therefore, 
seeks  to  answer  the  question  IVAjy,  as  well  as  the  question  I/ozv.  Thus 
the  problem  arises  as  to  the  way  in  M'hich  the  critic  is  to  proceed  in 
any  attempt  to  present,  for  example,  not  merely  a  generalised  statement 
of  the  "laws  "  of  the  Shakespearean  drama,  but  a  rationale  of  those  laws 
in  the  form  of  a  series  of  deductions  from  the  first  principles  of  dramatic 
effect. 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    371 

valuable  may  be  the  results  achieved  by  the  inductive 
method,  they  are  results  with  which  the  student  of 
literature  cannot,  after  all,  be  permanently  satisfied. 
While  this  method  may  thus  be  welcomed  as  a  most 
important  instrument  of  criticism,  it  cannot  be  ac- 
cepted as  a  complete  substitute  for  all  other  methods. 

The  scientific  critic  of  literature,  let  us  remember, 
has,  according  to  Mr  Moulton's  emphatic  statement, 
"nothing  to  do  with  merit,  relative  or  absolute." 
Differences  in  kind  he  knows  ;  differences  in  degree 
he  does  not  know.  He  seeks  "  the  laws  and  principles  " 
of  a  given  body  of  literature,  like  the  Shakespearean 
drama,  within  the  work  itself;  having  found  them, 
he  formulates  them  ;  but  he  has  no  opinion  to  pass 
upon  them.  The  questions  whether  the  criticism  of 
life  contained  in  the  Shakespearean  drama  is  sound 
or  unsound,  and  whether  the  artistic  principles  under- 
lying its  practice  are  good  or  bad,  are  questions  which 
lie  outside  his  field  as  a  scientific  investigator  of  the 
phenomena  as  they  stand. 

These  questions,  and  all  other  questions  of  the 
same  general  character,  are,  however,  both  inevitable 
and  legitimate.  They  force  themselves  upon  our 
attention ;  we  cannot  evade  them  ;  if  for  no  other 
reason  than  that  we  need  guidance  in  our  reading, 
we  have  a  right  to  demand  an  answer  to  them.  For 
here,  as  it  must  be  evident,  the  parallel  between 
literature  and  a  natural  science,  like  geology,  collapses. 
Geology  deals  with  phenomena  which  involve  no 
elements  of  personality,  truth  and  falsehood,  emotional 
power,  artistic  effects.  Such  elements  are  of  the 
essence  of  literature,  which  exists  to  interpret  life 
under  the  forms  of  art,  and  which,  therefore,  must  be 


372  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATQEE 

estimated  by  the  quality  both  of  the  interpretation 
and  of  the  art.  In  studying  geology  we  inquire  only 
what  a  given  thing  is  and  how  it  came  to  be  what  it 
is.  We  explain  it ;  and  with  the  explanation  our 
interest  ends.  In  studying  literature,  these  inquiries 
lead  straight  to  the  further  problem  of  the  significance 
of  the  thing  explained  to  us  and  to  other  people — to 
the  problem,  that  is,  of  its  human  and  technical  merits 
and  defects.  It  is  useless,  indeed,  to  insist  that  even 
for  one  who  approaches  the  subject-matter  of  literature 
as  he  would  approach  that  of  geology,  in  the  spirit  of 
"  pure  investigation,"  merits  and  defects  do  not  exist. 
They  are  assumed  by  the  scientist  himself;  Mr 
Moulton  assumes  them  ;  for  if  he  devotes  a  bulky 
and  most  stimulating  volume  to  the  inductive  exposi- 
tion of  Shakespeare's  art,  it  is  clear  that  he  holds  it 
worth  while  to  do  so  because,  like  the  rest  of  us, 
guided  to  begin  with  by  some  "  canons  of  taste,"  he  is 
convinced  of  Shakespeare's  supremacy  as  a  dramatic 
artist,  and  thus  believes  that  his  artistic  methods  are  in- 
teresting not  only  as  Shakespeare's  methods,  but  also  as 
methods  which  we  may  consider  on  the  whole  excellent 
in  their  kind.  Otherwise,  precisely  as  the  geologist 
is  indifferent  to  any  considerations  of  "  value  "  in  the 
rocks  he  studies,  he  might  just  as  well  have  written 
at  large  on  the  dramatic  art  of  Sheridan  Knowles  or 
even  the  author  of  Box  and  Cox.  Mr  Moulton,  how- 
ever, picks  out  Shakespeare  because  he  is  admittedly 
"  great,"  and  his  work  is  in  fact  designed  to  exhibit, 
not  only  his  methods,  but  his  greatness.  A  certain 
estimate  of  Shakespeare  is  thus  postulated  to  start  with. 
Merit,  relative  or  absolute,  is  recognised. 

This   is    only    what   we    might   expect.      However 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATUEE    373 

much  we  may  talk  about  a  science  of  criticism,  judg- 
ment in  literature  is  universal.  The  schoolboy  judges, 
in  his  own  simple  fashion,  when  he  pronounces  a  book 
"jolly  "  or  "  slow  "  ;  his  sister  judges  when  she  speaks 
of  a  story  as  "  pretty  "  or  the  reverse.  No  one  can 
read  intelligently  without  forming  some  opinion  as  to 
the  value  of  what  he  reads ,  and  one  of  the  first 
questions  that  we  put  to  a  friend  who  brings  a  new 
book  to  our  notice  is  the  question  what  he  thinks  of 
it.  As  we  go  further  in  our  study  of  literature  the 
problem  of  valuation  necessarily  becomes  increasingly 
complex  and  difficult;  more  and  more  we  find  our- 
selves bound  to  reserve  judgment  where  once  we 
pronounced  a  dogmatic  opinion  ;  to  reconsider  where 
formerly  we  had  assumed  a  view  as  final.  The  failure 
of  the  critics  themselves  to  come  to  any  agreement 
upon  matters  which  seem  fundamental  oftens  induces 
a  mood  of  scepticism,  sometimes  a  mood  of  disgust. 
But  not  for  these  reasons  shall  we  ever  be  tempted  to 
abandon  the  problem,  or  to  adopt  the  wholly  im- 
partial and  non-committal  attitude  of  the  scientific 
investigator.  What  the  inductive  critic  gives  us  we 
shall  always  accept  with  gratitude ;  but  we  shall  none 
the  less  turn  to  the  judicial  critic  in  the  hope  that  he 
may  complete  the  work  of  induction  by  helping  us, 
on  the  basis  of  the  results  obtained,  to  distinguish 
between  what  is  excellent  in  literature  and  what  is 
not.  Differences  in  degree  do  exist,  and  "  'tis  to 
mistake  them,  costs  the  time  and  pain."  Unless  we 
take  up  the  position  that,  as  to  the  geologist  all  kinds 
of  rock-formation  are  of  equal  importance,  so  to  us  as 
"  scientific "  students  all  kinds  of  literature  are  of 
equal    importance — in    which    case    it     can     hardly 


374  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

matter  whether  we  spend  our  lives  over  masterpieces 
or  trash — the  great  problem  of  literary  values  remains 
as  urgent  as  ever.  This  being  so,  judicial  criticism — 
the  criticism  which  seeks  to  solve  this  problem — 
however  numerous  its  past  errors  may  have  been, 
however  certain  the  failures  which  in  the  future  will 
continue  to  testify  to  the  countless  difficulties  which 
beset  its  path — will  thus  have  a  place  to  fill  and  a 
duty  to  perform. 

Ill 

Thus  far  we  have  dealt  with  the  literature  of 
exposition  and  judgment  from  the  point  of  view  only 
of  its  connection  with  the  literature  which  forms  its 
theme.  Another  aspect  of  our  subject  has  now  to  be 
introduced. 

While  in  the  first  instance  we  shall  probably  have 
recourse  to  a  given  piece  of  criticism  because 
of  criti-  of  our  interest  in  the  book  or  author  dis- 
cismas  cussed  in  it,  we  shall  soon  be  led  to  realise 
that  it  has  at  the  same  time  another  claim 
upon  our  attention.  Arnold's  Essays  in  Criticism^  for 
example,  may  appeal  to  us,  to  begin  with,  only  as  aids 
to  the  fuller  appreciation  of  Wordsworth  or  Byron, 
of  Shelley  or  Keats.  But  apart  from  the  help  they 
may  give  us  in  this  way,  apart  therefore  from  their 
subordinate  significance  as  means  to  an  end,  they 
have  a  substantial  value  of  their  own  as  an  expression 
of  the  critic  himself — of  his  personality,  thought, 
methods,  aims.  Even  if  we  should  find  Arnold's 
utterances  on  this  or  that  poet  unsatisfying,  even  if 
they  prove  of  little  or  no  service  to  us  as  means  to  an 
end,  they  will  still  remain  interesting  as  his  utterances  ; 


CmTICISM  AKD  VALUATION  OF  LITERATaRE    37$ 

and  what  is  true  in  regard  to  Arnold  is  equally  true, 
of  course,  in  regard  to  all  great  critics.  This  implies 
that  criticism,  though  it  may  be  conceived  primarily 
as  an  instrument  in  the  study  of  literature,  is  not  to 
be  conceived  as  an  instrument  only.  It  is  itself  a 
form  of  literature,  and  as  such  it  deserves  to  be 
considered  for  its  own  sake. 

In  the  study  of  the  literature  of  criticism  we  shall 
naturally  follow  the  lines  already  indicated  for  the 
study  of  literature  in  general. 

Personality  being  the  elemental  fact  in  all  literature, 
we  start  of  course  with  the  critic  himself  personal 
Our  chief  occupation  will  now  be  with  his  Aspects, 
fitness  for  the  post  of  interpreter  and  judge.  It  is 
evident  that  his  report  upon  book  or  author  can  have 
no  real  interest  for  us  unless  we  have  some  assurance 
that  he  speaks  as  one  having  in  respect  of  the  par- 
ticular matter  in  hand  a  special  right  to  be  heard. 
Various  questions  regarding  his  qualifications  will, 
therefore,  have  to  be  considered,  upon  the  more 
important  of  which  only  it  will  be  necessary  here 
to  touch. 

In  the  first  place,  how  far  does  he  approximate  in 
intellectual  composition  and  temper  to  what 
we  may  define  as  the  perfect  critical  ideal  ?    Q^^jgca.- 
And,  since   approximation  only  is  humanly    tions  of 
possible,  to  what  extent  and  at  what  points    q^^^^ 
is  it  requisite  that  we  should  make  allowance 
for  his  deficiences  ?     The  true  critic  must  be  mentally 
alert  and  flexible,  keen  in  insight,  quick  in  response 
to  all  impressions,  strong  in  grasp  of  essentials  ;  he 
must,   moreover,  as  Matthew  Arnold  will  tell  us,  be 
able  to  see  a  thing  as  it  really  is,  and  not  distorted 


376  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

through  a  mist  of  his  own  idiosyncracies  and  pre- 
possessions ;  which  means  that  he  must  be  entirely- 
disinterested  and  free  from  bias  of  all  kinds — bias  of 
individual  tastes,  bias  of  education,  bias  of  creed,  sect, 
party,  class,  nation.  Now  since,  as  we  say,  we  can 
never  expect  to  have  these  conditions  completely 
fulfilled  —  since,  in  fact,  even  the  greatest  critics, 
even  a  critic  like  Lessing,  fail  only  too  conspicuously 
to  fulfil  them — it  will  be  needful  for  us  to  watch 
carefully  for  every  sign  of  disturbance  in  the  free  play 
of  the  critic's  mind  upon  his  subject,  to  trace  it  if  we 
can  to  its  sources,  to  "  account  for "  it,  as  Scherer 
would  seek  to  account  for  the  qualities  and  limitations 
of  Milton's  genius,  and  to  estimate  the  range  of  its 
influence  and  the  bearings  of  its  results.  A  critic's 
attitude  to  his  author — the  attitude,  for  example,  of 
Arnold  to  Wordsworth  and  Shelley  respectively — 'Will 
often  lead  us  to  question  whether  this  attitude  is  not 
to  be  explained  by  some  peculiarity  in  the  critic 
himself.  We  shall  find  that  in  many  instances 
criticism  which,  within  certain  limits,  is  marked  by 
vigour  of  understanding  and  sound  sense  is,  outside 
those  limits,  sadly  marred  and  sometimes  rendered 
wholly  untrustworthy  by  some  dominant  habit  of 
mind  or  ingrained  prejudice.  A  striking  illustration 
is  afforded  by  Johnson,  who  was,  according  to  his 
lights,  an  admirable  judge  of  literature  when  he  was 
in  sympathy  with  his  author's  aims  and  principles, 
but  quite  the  reverse  of  admirable  when  he  had  to 
deal  with  writers  with  whom,  for  one  or  another 
reason,  he  was  out  of  sympathy.  Thus  we  get  the 
be^t  of  his  work — and  very  good  of  the  kind  this  is — 
in  !iis  lives  of  such  men  as  Pope  and  Addison,  who 


CiUTICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    377 

were  exponents  of  the  literary  ideals  which  he 
esteemed  ;  and  the  worst  of  it — and  very  bad  this  is 
— in  his  treatment  of  Milton  and  Gray,  where  his 
judgment  was  perverted,  in  the  one  case  by  political, 
in  the  other  by  personal  and  literary  antipathies.^  In 
Coleridge,  again,  while  in  the  faculty  of  insight  and 
poetic  intuition  he  is  entitled  to  take  rank  with  the 
greatest  of  English  critics,  the  power  to  see  things  as 
they  really  are  was  often  destroyed  by  metaphysical 
pre-occupations  and  a  veneration  for  certain  chosen 
authors  as  irrational  and  superstitious  as  that  of 
the  pseudo-classic  theorists  of  the  seventeenth  and 
eighteenth  centuries  for  the  literatures  of  Greece  and 
Rome.  He  has  been  greatly  praised  for  his  criticism 
of  Shakespeare;  yet  that  criticism,  stimulating  and 
suggestive  as  it  frequently  is,  is  none  the  less 
characterised  by  the  wildest  extravagances.  It  is 
Coleridge,  for  instance,  whom  we  in  England  must 
hold  primarily  responsible  for  the  long-standing 
unhistorical  and  wholly  "  subjective "  treatment  of 
Shakespeare,  and  for  the  popularity  of  the  nonsense 
which  is  still  talked  about  Shakespeare's  "  universality," 
or  complete  independence  of  all  conditions  of  time 
and  place.  "  When  Coleridge  writes  a  criticism  of 
Shakespeare,"  says  Mr  Arthur  Symons,  "  he  is  giving 
us  his  [Coleridge's]  deepest  philosophy."  ^  True. 
But  we  must  never  forget  that  it  is  his  philosophy 
that   he    is   thus   giving    us,    not    Shakespeare's.      In 

^  It  will  be  noted  that  he  handles  Collins  far  more  tenderly  than  Gray, 
even  where  the  two  men  represent  broadly  the  same,  to  him,  objectionable 
tendencies  in  the  poetry  of  the  time.  This  is  to  be  accounted  for  by 
nis  personal  interest  in  Collins  the  man,  and  therefore  furnishes  another 
txample  of  bias. 

^  Introduction  to  Biographia  Literaria^  in  Everyman! s  Library. 


378  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATtJM 

following  his  interpretations  we  must  always  be  alive 
to  the  importance  of  distinguishing  sharply  between 
what  he  reads  out  of  Shakespeare  and  what  he  reads 
into  him.  We  shall  thus  often  find  it  necessary  to 
clear  Coleridge's  "  deepest  philosophy  "  altogether  out 
of  the  way  in  order  to  see  the  work  of  Shakespeare, 
the  Elizabethan  dramatist,  as  it  really  is — as  the 
product  of  his  genius  and  his  age.  A  third  case  in 
point  is  provided  by  none  other  than  Arnold  himself, 
and  this  is,  of  course,  particularly  instructive,  because 
Arnold  made  it  his  mission  to  preach  disinterestedness, 
and  certainly  did  his  utmost  to  practise  it.  Yet  even 
in  him  traces  of  a  distinct  bias  are  frequently  apparent 
— a  bias  due  mainly  to  his  early  Oxford  training  and 
his  rather  too  narrow  academic  culture.  This  led  him 
to  exaggerate  the  value  of  the  Greek  masters  ^  and  to 
overstate  the  claims  of  classical  studies  as  a  school  of 
taste.  It  even  caused  him  at  times  to  revert  to  the 
older  notions  of  absolute  criteria  and  of  finality  in 
literature ;  as  when  he  called  Scott's  poetic  style 
"bastard  epic,"  though,  as  he  ought  to  have  re- 
membered, it  is  not  "  epic "  at  all,  and  tested  the 
Wizard's  narrative  poems  by  what  he  termed  the 
"  highest  standards  " — meaning  the  standards  furnished 
by  the  epics  of  classical  antiquity — in  defiance  of  the 
fact  that  Marmion  and  The  Lady  of  the  Lake  are 
poems  of  an  entirely  different  kind  from  the  Iliad  and 
the  Odyssey^  and  that,  as  Mr  Moulton  would  have  told 
him,  the  "  laws  "  of  their  composition  are  therefore  to  be 
sought  in  themselves,  and  not  in  the  practice  of  Homer. 

^  His  remark  in  a  letter  to  Miss  Arnold,  that  Homer  leaves  Shakespeare 
**as  far  behind  as  perfection  leaves  imperfection,"  may  be  cited  as  a 
curious  bit  of  extravagance  {Letters ^  i.  148). 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITEBATURE    379 

It  is  unnecessary  to  adduce  further  examples  of  the 
disturbance  in  judgment  caused  by  the  various  kinds 
of  bias,  which  are  apt  at  times  to  interfere  with  the 
steadiness  of  a  critic's  vision  and  the  impartiality  of 
his  views.  Enough  has  been  said  to  enforce  the 
principle  laid  down,  that  in  our  study  of  a  critic's 
writings  it  is  important  to  take  stock  of  his  prepos- 
sessions, to  observe  their  influence  upon  his  thought, 
and,  in  estimating  the  value  of  his  work,  to  make  due 
allowance  for  them. 

A  critic's  qualifications  do  not,  however,  depend 
only  upon  his  natural  gifts,  and  thus  a 
second  question  arises  in  regard  to  his  equip- g^jj^^g^^ 
ment  for  his  work.  Most  of  us  have  known 
persons  of  meagre  scholarship  and  no  technical 
training,  whose  instinctive  feeling  for  what  is  good  in 
literature  has  none  the  less  given  them  a  surprising 
power  of  discernment  and  appreciation.  The  honest 
judgment  of  a  capable  general  reader  on  a  book, 
like  the  honest  judgment  of  a  capable  amateur  on  a 
picture,  is  never  to  be  despised  ;  it  has  often  in  fact  a 
great  value  if  only  because  it  is  fresh,  independent, 
and  free  from  the  insidious  influence  of  that  perhaps 
most  wide-spread  of  all  forms  of  bias — the  professional. 
At  the  same  time,  for  systematic  criticism,  scholarship 
and  technical  training  are  clearly  requisite.  "  No 
more  in  literature  than  elsewhere,"  writes  one  of  the 
ablest  of  modern  French  critics,  "has  the  chance- 
comer  the  right  to  pronounce  upon  the  value  of  work 
done,  nor,  whatever  one  may  say  about  it,  to  judge  of 
art  without  a  long  and  laborious  education  of  his  taste. 
If  aptitudes  are  not  necessary" — though  it  is  difficult 
to  see  how  their  necessity  can,  upon  any  hypothesis, 


3Bo  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

be  denied — "  at  least  an  apprenticeship  is."  ^  This, 
perhaps,  is  rather  too  strongly  put,  and  smacks  a 
little  too  much  of  the  tendency  of  the  academic 
critic  to  regard  literary  appreciation  as  the  business 
of  an  exclusive  "  Brahmin  caste."  But  the  general 
truth  of  the  statement  cannot  be  questioned.  For  the 
critic  of  literature,  as  for  the  critic  of  art,  a  special 
education  is  essential ;  and  by  education  we  must 
here  understand,  as  always,  both  acquisition  of  know- 
ledge and  discipline  of  mind.  The  critic  needi 
knowledge  to  give  him  breadth  of  view  and  to 
provide  a  proper  basis  for  his  judgment.  He  needs 
discipline  of  mind  to  make  that  knowledge  serviceable. 
Other  things  being  equal,  his  competence  as  interpreter 
and  judge  will  be  in  proportion  to  his  knowledge 
and  discipline  ;  and  if  these  are  lacking,  his  opinions, 
however  interesting  and  suggestive,  will  carry  little 
weight. 

Thus,  to  illustrate  by  extreme  cases,  though  we 
cannot  go  with  Addison  in  his  belief  that  the  Iliad 
and  the  ^neid  furnish  the  final  rules  of  all  epic 
poetry,  we  must  still  hold  that  a  writer  is  but  poorly 
qualified  to  discuss  the  art  of  Paradise  Lost  who  is 
not  himself  familiar  with  the  work  of  Milton's  own 
masters ;  while  a  thorough  and  comprehensive  ac- 
quaintance with  the  world's  greatest  productions  in 
the  drama  and  prose  fiction  may  safely  be  postulated 
as  indispensable  for  anyone  who  would  undertake  to 
pass  formal  judgment  on  a  play  or  a  novel.^     We  can 

^  Brunetiere,  V Evohction  des  Genres,  p.  127. 

^  It  must  not  be  forgotten  tliat  inadequate  knowledge  of  the  real 
principles  of  the  Greek  drama  and  of  Aristotle's  criticism  was  in  large 
measure  responsible  for  the  psuedo-classicism  of  the  seventeenth  and 
eighteenth  centuries.     This  was  triumphantly  proved  by  the  greatest  of 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITEEATURE    381 

hardly  dissent  from  Arnold's  view  that  a  knowledge 
of  "  one  great  literature,  besides  his  own,  and  the  more 
unlike  his  own  the  better,"  is  the  irreducible  minimum 
of  scholarship  necessary  for  a  critic's  preparation ; 
while  there  is  nothing  really  extravagant  in  his  further 
contention  that  a  "  proper  outfit "  must  comprise  a 
knowledge  of  what  is  best  in  all  European  literatures, 
ancient  and  modern,  and  even  of  the  literature  of 
Eastern  antiquity.^  Too  exclusive  devotion  to  any 
one  kind  of  literature  is  certain  to  result  in  narrowness 
and  obliquity  of  judgment. 

It  is  worth  while  to  insist  upon  the  critic's  need  of 
training  and  discipline,  for  the  matter  has  a  practical 
bearing.  One  of  the  most  curious  and  discouraging 
features  of  current  newspaper  and  magazine  criticism, 
at  any  rate  in  England  and  America,  is  its  general 
want  of  measure,  sobriety,  and  perspective.  A  new 
novel  is  published — a  book  perhaps  with  various  ad- 
mirable qualities  and  well  deserving  a  word  of  cordial 
recognition.  We  turn  to  a  notice  of  it  in  this  or  that 
journal,  and  we  find  the  reviewer  almost  beside  him- 
self in  a  frenzy  of  wonder  and  excitement.  The  work 
is  hailed  as  a  masterpiece,  its  author  pronounced  on 
the  spot  a  consummate  artist  compared  with  whom — 
if  we  are  to  take  his  language  at  anything  like  its 
literal  meaning — Scott  was  a  bungler  and  Dickens  a 
mere  novice.  A  few  years  go  by ;  the  great  book 
and  its  author  disappear  from  sight  or  drop  back  into 

eighteenth  century  critics,  Lessing.  Herbert  Spencer's  frequently  per- 
verse and  sometimes  grotesque  judgments  on  poetry  and  painting,  while 
to  some  extent  due  to  his  temperament  and  his  constitutional  love  of 
opposition,  may  also  be  explained  in  part  by  reference  to  his  want  of 
knowledge  and  training  in  these  particular  subjects. 

^  Function  of  Criticism  at  the  Present  Time,  in  Essays,  First  Series. 


382  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATURE 

the  rank  of  the  ephemerals  ;  and  the  reviewer,  who 
seems  incapable  of  learning  from  experience,  unblush- 
ingly  breaks  forth  into  another  paean  over  the  arrival 
of  another  masterpiece  from  the  pen  of  another  genius 
of  the  first  order.  These  vagaries  of  periodical  criticism 
point,  of  course,  to  a  general  laxity  in  contemporary 
taste.  The  average  reviewer  is  so  little  impressed  by 
the  responsibilities  of  his  office,  and  so  little  solicitous 
for  the  true  interests  of  literature,  that  he  does  not 
pause  to  weigh  his  words  or  to  consider  the  real 
significance  of  his  opinions  ;  while  a  public  which 
reads  current  literature  with  the  object  (if  the  signs 
do  not  mislead  us)  of  getting  through  as  much  as 
possible  as  quickly  as  possible  and  then  forgetting  it, 
naturally  imposes  no  restraint  upon  him.  It  cannot, 
of  course,  be  alleged  that  this  deplorable  laxity  would 
be  overcome  merely  by  an  increase  of  knowledge  and 
discipline  in  those  who  set  up  as  guides  to  popular 
taste  in  literary  matters.  But  increase  of  knowledge 
and  discipline  would  certainly  help  to  secure  some 
sense  of  that  measure,  sobriety,  and  perspective  with- 
out which  criticism  is  worse  than  useless. 

In  the  systematic  study  of  the  work  of  any  critic 

there  are  thus  several  points  to  be  kept  in 
study  in  view.  We  have  to  inquire  into  his  personal 
a  Critic's     qualities    and    equipment,    and    the    extent 

to  which  they  are  likely  to  have  aided 
or  impeded  him  in  his  task  of  adjudicating  upon 
a  particular  book  or  author  ;  we  have  to  watch  for 
every  indication  of  bias,  and  to  consider  both  i 
sources  and  its  bearings  ;  we  have  to  examine  th 
foundations  of  his  judgments  and  the  standard  to 
which,   expressly   or   by    implication,    he    makes    hi 


:i 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    3S3 

appeal.  Nor  must  we  overlook  the  important  question 
of  the  general  spirit  of  his  work.  A  critic  may  write 
with  an  honest  desire  to  understand  his  author,  to 
interpret  him,  to  do  justice  to  him  ;  or  he  may  write 
with  the  too  evident  purpose  of  exhibiting  his  own 
learning  and  cleverness  at  his  author's  expense ;  he 
may  be  sympathetic,  temperate,  and  anxious  chiefly 
to  see  what  is  good  ;  or  he  may  be  carping,  censorious, 
and  determined  to  hunt  out  faults  and  dwell  on 
failings.  Whatever  otherwise  we  may  think  of 
Addison's  criticism,  for  example,  we  must  at  least 
acknowledge  that  its  tone  is  admirable.  Holding,  as 
he  did,  that  the  "  true  critic "  ought  to  seek  rather 
"excellencies  than  imperfections,"  he  regarded  it  as 
his  principal  duty  "  to  discover  the  concealed  beauties 
of  a  writer,  and  communicate  to  the  world  such  things 
as  are  worth  their  observation."  ^  The  tone  of  Lord 
Jeffrey's  criticism,  on  the  other  hand,  is  too  frequently 
the  reverse  of  admirable  ;  his  idea  apparently  being, 
as  Professor  Saintsbury  has  put  it,  that  "  an  author 
necessarily  came  before  the  critic  with  a  rope  about 
his  neck,  and  was  only  entitled  to  be  exempted  from 
being  strung  up  speciali  gratia  " — an  idea,  Mr  Saints- 
bury  rightly  adds,  which,  "  as  presumptuous  as  it  is 
foolish,  is  not  extinct  yet,  and  has  done  a  great  deal 
of  harm  to  criticism,  both  by  prejudicing  those  who 
are  not  critical  against  critics,  and  by  perverting  and 
twisting  the  critic's  own  notion  of  his  province  and 
duty."  2  No  one  will  deny  that  there  are  many  cases 
in  which  critical  severity  is  amply  justified,  or  that, 
if  arrogance  is  always  wrong,  mere  weak   and   undis- 

^  spectator ^  No.  291. 

2  History  of  Nineteenth  Century  Literature^  p.  175, 


384  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

criminating  clemency  can  never  be  right.  But  this 
is  not  now  the  question.  For  the  moment  we  have 
only  to  insist  upon  the  importance  of  including  the 
spirit  of  a  critic's  writings  among  the  characteristics 
of  his  work,  and  of  observing  the  way  in  which  it 
enters  into  and  often  colours  his  judgments. 


IV 

In  the  study  of  criticism,  as  in  the  study  of  other 
The  Com-  ^^^^^  o^  literature,  we  shall  proceed  next  to 
parative  extend  and  render  more  definite  our  know- 
the  study  ledge  of  the  individual  writer  by  recourse  to 
of  comparison    and    contrast.     We   shall   place 

his  work  beside  that  of  other  critics  who 
have  dealt  with  the  same  subjects — the  same  books, 
authors,  periods,  or  classes  of  literature  ;  and  in  this 
way  we  shall  seek  to  realise,  more  fully  than  would 
be  possible  were  they  considered  separately,  the 
powers  and  limitations  of  each.  No  longer  satisfied, 
as  in  casual  reading  we  are  apt  to  be  satisfied,  merely 
to  note  agreement  or  disagreement  in  the  judgments 
pronounced,  we  shall  examine  carefully  all  points  of 
similarity  and  difference  in  the  things  which  lie  behind 
judgment — in  personal  attitude  and  proclivities  ;  in 
the  line  of  approach  adopted  ;  in  the  particulars 
emphasised  or  neglected ;  in  methods,  manner, 
standards,  temper,  taste.  The  results  achieved  by 
such  comparative  study  will  be  found  not  only 
interesting  in  themselves,  but  also  of  special  value  in 
helping  us  to  trace  the  qualities  of  each  critic's  work 
to  their  ultimate  sources  in  character,  education,  and 
aims. 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATUEE    385 

The  further  we  go  afield  in  this  comparative  study 
the  more  certainly  we  shall  be  struck  by  the  ex- 
traordinary diversity  of  critical  opinions,  and  by  what 
I  have  already  described  as  the  failure  of  the  critics 
to  come  to  any  agreement  among  themselves  in 
respect  of  even  essential  matters.  It  is  this  which, 
as  I  have  said,  has  been  largely  responsible  for  the 
contempt  with  which  criticism  has  frequently  been 
treated,  and  for  the  odium  which  it  has  incurred. 
Particularly  perhaps  has  the  wide-spread  notion  of  the 
fundamental  futility  of  all  criticism  received  a  certain 
amount  of  justification  from  the  notorious  fact  that 
contemporary  judgments  concerning  new  works, 
whether  in  the  way  of  praise  or  condemnation,  have 
failed  so  signally  in  giving  any  true  measure  of  the 
permanent  value  of  such  works  that  they  have  often 
been  completely  reversed  by  posterity.^ 

In  many  cases,  of  course,  these  differences  in 
critical  opinion  are  personal  differences  only ;  as  such 
they  must  be  accepted  ;  as  such,  it  is  scarcely  necessary 

^  It  is  well  known  that  contemporary  judgments  of  now  acknowledged 
masterpieces  furnish  matter  for  a  curious  chapter  in  literary  history.  It 
is  hard  to  say  whether  we  ought  to  be  the  more  pained  or  amused  when, 
for  example,  we  find  the  Edinburgh  Review  speaking  of  Coleridge's 
Christabel,  as  "a  mixture  of  raving  and  drivelling,"  and  pronouncing 
Wordsworth's  Ode  on  the  Intimations  of  I?nmortality  "  illegible  and  un- 
intelligible." Prof.  Dowden  has  collected  some  telling  illustrations  of 
critical  obtuseness  and  perversity  in  his  essay  on  The  Interpretation  of 
literature  {Contemporary  Review,  1 886).  It  is  noteworthy  that  many 
critics  who  show  the  finest  taste  and  sagacity  in  dealing  with  the  literature 
of  the  past  often  fail  to  perceive  or  acknowledge  the  claims  of  the  litera- 
ture of  their  own  time.  Thus  Arnold,  who  was  so  keenly  alive  to  the 
value  of  Wordsworth's  "criticism  of  life,"  spoke  of  Tennyson  as  "de- 
ficient in  intellectual  power."  A  tendency  to  discredit  the  present  in 
favour  of  the  past  in  literature,  as  elsewhere,  is  a  very  common  kind  of 
bias. 

2  B 


386  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

now  to  add,  they  are  in  themselves  interesting.  But 
it  will  also  be  found,  as  might  be  anticipated,  that 
differences  and  agreements  alike  often  fall  into  groups. 
A  certain  amount  of  general  conformity — of  approxi- 
mation to  unanimity — is  commonly  observable  among 
critics  of  the  same  epoch  and  school,  and  a  certain 
amount  of  general  nonconformity,  or  want  of  unan- 
imity, among  critics  of  different  epochs  and  schools. 
Individual  characteristics  may  thus  to  some  extent 
be  subsumed  in  the  characteristics  of  the  class  to 
which  each  critic  belongs.  This  is  only  the  inevitable 
result  of  that  dependence  of  literature  upon  the  life 
of  the  age  which  produces  it,  of  which  I  have  spoken 
at  length  in  a  former  chapter.  No  less  than  all 
other  kinds  of  literature  criticism,  while  never  ceasing 
to  be  the  vehicle  of  personality,  is  also  in  part  the 
expression  of  the  spirit  of  the  epoch  out  of  which  it 
comes.i 

We  are  thus  led  from  the  consideration  of  individual 
critics  to  the  historical  study  of  criticism — a  field  of 
immense    interest,    because    the    history    of   criticism 

^  I  do  not  think  it  necessary  to  burden  the  text  with  any  discussion  of 
racial  qualities  in  criticism  (see  chap,  ii,  §  i).  That — to  mention  a 
single  example — the  French  and  English  points  of  view  in  regard  to  all 
questions  which  enter  into  critical  consideration  will  generally  be  markedly 
different,  and  often  quite  opposed,  will  be  evident  to  every  reader.  It  is 
equally  clear  that  the  study  of  their  differences  as  expressive  of  differences 
in  racial  ideas,  both  of  literature  and  of  life,  will  be  found  extremely 
suggestive.  It  has  frequently  been  said  that  the  contemporary  foreign 
judgment  of  a  book  or  author  anticipates  the  judgment  of  posterity  ;  but 
history  yields  little  to  support,  and  much  to  invalidate  this  daring  pro- 
position, which  even  on  general  grounds  would  appear  to  be  quite 
untenable.  None  the  less,  if  we  desire  to  cultivate  the  temper  of  dis- 
interestedness we  can  hardly  do  better  than  to  study  carefully  the  writings 
of  good  foreign  critics  who  have  dealt  with  our  own  literature — such 
critics,  for  instance,  as  Sainte-Beuve,  Scherer,  and  Brunetiere. 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITEEATQRE    387 

contains  the   record  of  the  changes  which   from  age 
to   age   have    come    over    men's    conception 

^u6  HIS* 

of  Hterature,  of  its  aims   and  principles,   its    toricai 
matter  and    methods,  of  the    things    which    ^Jj^^^g^ 
are    to   be    sought   and   avoided    in    it,  and 
of  the  standards  by  which  it  is  to  be  judged. 

A  simple  plan,  and  one  which  will  naturally  suggest 
itself  to  every  student,  is  that  of  following  and  collat- 
ing the  variations  which  have  taken  place  in  critical 
opinion      about      particular      representative 
authors.      One    most    notable    illustration —  opinion 
that  furnished  by  the  history  of  Shakespeare  pre^enta" 
criticism  from  the  restoration  to  the  time  of  tive 
Coleridge,    or    even   later — stands    ready    to  ^^^^°^^- 
hand  ;  but  this  has  been  so  often  used  that  I   prefer 
to  set  it  aside  for  one  less  familiar,^  but  not  in  its 
own  way  less   instructive.     This  is   provided    by  the 
case   of  Bunyan.      The   eighteenth   century,    with   its 
dominant  notions  of  dignity  in  literature,  its  narrow 
conceptions  of  art,  and  its  general  inability  to  recognise 
the  value  of  naturalness  and  simplicity,  as  a  matter 
of  course  gave  little  critical  attention  to  the  Elstow 
tinker ;  so  far  as  professed  students  and  exponents  of 
taste  took  cognisance  of  him  at  all,  they  regarded  him 
(with  few  exceptions,  of  whom  Swift  and  Johnson  may 
be  reckoned  the  most  important)  as  a  writer  for  the 
"  illiterate "   and   the  "  vulgar "   only.     Thus,   for   ex- 
ample, Young,  in  one  of  his  satires,  links  "  Bunyan's 
prose  "  with  "  Durfey's  verse  " — a  proverbial  type  of 
sheer  doggerel ;  Hume  indulges  in  a  passing  expression 

^  A  sketch  of  the  history  of  Shakespeare  criticism  will  be  found  in 
the  introductory  chapter  of  Moulton's  Shakespeare  as  a  Dramatk 
Artist^ 


388  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

of  contempt  for  him  ;  ^  Burke  talks  about  the  possi- 
bility that  a  certain  class  of  readers  might  perhaps 
enjoy  the  JEneid  "  if  it  were  degraded  into  the  style 
of  The  Pilgrim's  Progress "  ;  in  the  reprint  of  this 
work  in  Cooke's  Pocket  Library  (1797),  it  is  distinctly 
stated  that  "  it  cannot  come  under  the  Denomination 
of  a  Classic  Production  "  ;  while  Cowper  testifies  to 
the  current  taste  of  the  time  when  in  his  Tirocinium 
he  writes  of  its  author  : — 

"  I  name  thee  not,  lest  so  despised  a  name 
Should  move  a  sneer  at  thy  deserved  fame." 

We  pass  abruptly  into  the  thirties  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  and  we  find  Macaulay  eulogising  Southey's 
edition  of  The  Pilgrim's  Progress^  as  "  an  eminently 
beautiful  and  splendid  edition  of  a  book  which  well 
deserves  all  that  the  printer  and  engraver  can  do  for 
it " ;  proclaiming  it  a  *'  wonderful "  book,  which 
"  obtains  admiration  from  the  most  fastidious  critics  "  • 
and  speaking  of  its  style — its  "depraved"  style' — as 
"  delightful  to  every  reader  "  ;  after  which,  to  cite  two 
only  from  among  recent  enthusiastic  critics,  Mr  Gosse 
pronounces  this  style  "  perfection "  in  its  kind,  and 
roundly  declares  that  Bunyan's  "  allegory  is  successful 
above  all  other  allegories  in  literature " ;  while  Mr 
Stopford  Brooke  writes  of  his  best  known  book : 
*'  Its  form  is   almost  epic  :    its  dramatic  dialogue,  its 

1  *'  Whoever  would  assert  an  equality  of  genius  and  elegance  between 
Ogilby  and  Milton,  or  Bunyan  and  Addison,  would  be  thought  to  defend 
no  less  an  extravagance,  than  if  he  had  maintained  a  mole-hill  to  be  as 
high  as  Teneriffe,  or  a  pond  as  extensive  as  the  ocean.  Though  there 
may  be  found  persons  who  give  the  preference  to  the  former  authors,  no 
one  pays  attention  to  such  a  taste ;  and  we  pronounce,  without  scruple, 
the  sentiments  of  these  pretended  critics  to  be  absurd  and  ridiculous  " 
{Essay  of  the  Standard  of  Taste\, 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    389 

clear  types  of  character,  its  vivid  descriptions,  as  of 
Vanity  Fair,  and  of  places,  such  as  the  Valley  of  the 
Shadow  of  Death  and  the  Delectable  Mountains,  which 
represent  states  of  the  human  soul,  have  given  an 
equal  but  a  different  pleasure  to  children  and  men,  to 
the  villager  and  the  scholar."  How  shall  we  explain 
the  immense  general  change  of  attitude  and  judgment 
thus  exemplified — for  a  general  change  it  how  to  be 
manifestly  was  ?  Clearly,  the  explanation  is  Explained? 
not  to  be  found  in  the  idiosyncracies  of  this  or  that 
particular  critic.  It  must  ultimately  be  sought  in  a 
consideration  of  all  the  influences  within  literature 
which  during  a  century  and  a  half  had  combined  to 
transform  its  methods  and  spirit,  and  of  all  the  forces 
outside  literature  which  had  done  much  to  generate 
these  influences  through  the  immense  alteration  which 
they  had  wrought  in  the  moral  and  religious  ideals  and 
temper  of  the  English  people.  So  intimately  are  all 
the  phenomena  of  literature  and  life  bound  up  together 
that  it  would  thus  be  impossible  to  set  out  in  full  the 
story  of  the  rise  of  this  once  -  neglected  writer  in 
critical  estimation  to  the  rank  of  an  acknowledged 
master,  without  continual  reference  to  the  history  both 
of  English  literature  and  of  English  society.  Professor 
Saintsbury  has  touched  in  a  suggestive  way  on  the 
interesting  problem  of  Bunyan's  posthumous  fame.  The 
Pilgrim's  Progress,  he  writes,  "  has  long  been,  and  it 
may  be  hoped  will  always  be,  well  enough  known 
in  England.  But  for  something  like  four  generations 
after  its  first  appearance,  its  popularity,  though  always 
great,  was,  so  to  speak,  subterranean,  and  almost 
contraband.  It  is  probable  that  even  when  it  was 
most  sniffed  at  by  academic  criticism,  it  was  brought 


390  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

by  means  of  nursemaids  to  the  knowledge  of  children. 
But  it  was  not  till  quite  the  end  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  or  even  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth,  that 
it  was  free  of  the  study  as  it  had  long  been  free  of  the 
cottage  and  the  nursery.  Orthodoxy  objected  to 
Bunyan's  dissent ;  dissent  to  his  literary  and  artistic 
gifts ;  latitudinarians  to  his  religious  fervour ;  the 
somewhat  priggish  refinement  of  Addisonian  and 
Popean  etiquette  to  his  vernacular  language  and  his 
popular  atmosphere ;  scholars  to  his  supposed  want  of 
education.  And  so  the  greatest  prose-book  of  the 
late  seventeenth  century  in  England  had,  for  nearly 
a  hundred  and  fifty  years,  the  curious  fate  of  constantly 
exercising  influence  without  ever  achieving  praise,  or 
even  notice,  from  those  whose  business  it  was  to  give 
both."  ^  This  brief  epitome  of  some  among  the 
many  causes  which  long  stood  in  the  way  of  Bunyan's 
recognition  by  the  critics,  itself,  as  will  be  seen, 
indicates  the  nature  of  the  changes  in  many  directions 
which  had  to  be  effected  before  his  standing  in  our 
literature  could  be  made  so  secure  that  a  place  was 
found  for  him  in  the  series  of  English  3^ en  of  Letters. 
The  history  of  critical  opinion  thus  broadens  out  on 
The  every  side  until  it  becomes  a  comprehensive 

History  of  supplement  to  the  history  of  literary  produc- 
asasup-  tion.  It  is  as  such  a  supplement  that  we 
piement  to  ^^y  therefore  study,  for  example,  the  criticism 
History  of  of  the  eighteenth  and  the  first  decades  of  the 
Literature,  ninteenth  centuries  in  its  connection  with  the 
whole  movement  of  literature  from  the  period  of 
dominant  classicism  to  that  of  established  romanticism 
and   naturalism.     In   the  gradual   shifting   and    final 

^  Short  History  of  English  Literature,  pp.  516,  517. 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    391 

reversal  of  judgment  concerning  Pope,  the  central 
figure  of  our  Augustan  age,  and  what  Pope  pre- 
eminently had  stood  for  in  poetry,  we  may  follow  in 
the  clearest  possible  way  some  of  the  main  lines  in  the 
great  transition.  For  Dr  Johnson,  the  doughty 
champion  of  the  Augustan  ideals  at  a  time  when  the 
attack  upon  them  had  already  begun,  Pope's  work, 
though  after  his  manner  he  picked  innumerable  holes 
in  it,  was  still  the  last  word  in  poetic  art.  "  New 
sentiments  and  new  images  others  may  produce,  but 
to  attempt  any  further  improvement  in  versification 
will  be  dangerous.  Art  and  diligence  have  now  done 
their  best,  and  what  shall  be  added  will  be  the  effort 
of  tedious  toil  and  needless  curiosity.  After  all  this," 
the  writer  concludes,  "  it  is  surely  superfluous  to  answer 
the  question  that  has  once  been  asked.  Whether  Pope 
was  a  poet,  otherwise  than  by  asking  in  return,  If 
Pope  be  not  a  poet,  where  is  poetry  to  be  found  ?  To 
circumscribe  poetry  by  a  definition  will  only  show  the 
narrowness  of  the  definer,  though  a  definition  which 
shall  exclude  Pope  will  not  easily  be  made.  Let  us 
look  round  upon  the  present  time,  and  back  upon  the 
past  ;  let  us  inquire  to  whom  the  voice  of  mankind  has 
decreed  the  wreath  of  poetry  ;  let  their  productions  be 
examined,  and  their  claims  stated,  and  the  pretensions 
of  Pope  will  be  no  more  disputed."^  These  sentences, 
it  will  be  noted,  have  the  ring  of  apology.  Why  ? 
Because  the  pretensions  of  Pope  had  already  been 
disputed,  and  the  question  to  which  Johnson  alludes, 
and  which  he  deems  it  superfluous  to  answer  save  by 
a  rhetorical  counter  -  question,  had  been  definitely 
raised  by   Joseph  Warton  (who,  as  a  poet,  takes  an 

^  Life  Of  Pope, 


392  tHE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

important  place  among  the  early  romanticists)  in  an 
Essay  on  the  Genius  and  Writings  of  Pope,  the  first 
part  of  which  was  published  in  1756,  or  only  a  dozen 
years  after  Pope's  death. ^  Warton  strikes  a  distinctly 
new  note  by  boldly  declaring — the  point  is  of  the 
utmost  importance  as  indicating  a  change  of  view 
concerning  the  essence  of  poetry — that  Pope  was  a 
great  wit  rather  than  a  great  poet,  since  the  largest 
part  of  his  work  "  is  of  the  didactic,  moral,  and  satiric ; 
and,  consequently,  not  of  the  most  poetic  species  of 
poetry ;  whence  it  is  manifest  that  good  sense  and 
judgment  were  his  characteristical  excellences  rather 
than  fancy  and  invention!'  Lowell  describes  this  essay 
as  "  the  earliest  public  and  official  declaration  of  war 
against  the  reigning  mode."  In  the  sense  that  it  was 
the  first  open  attack  upon  the  great  master  of  the 
reigning  mode,  this  is  correct.  But  ten  years  before, 
in  his  preface  to  a  volume  of  poems  published  when 
the  writer  was  only  twenty-four,  Warton  had  written 
in  the  same  strain  :  "  The  public  has  been  so  much 
accustomed  of  late  to  didactic  poetry  alone,  and  essays 
on  moral  subjects,  that  any  work  where  the  imagina- 
tion is  much  indulged,  will  perhaps  not  be  relished  or 
regarded.  The  author  therefore  of  these  pieces  is  in 
some  pain  lest  certain  austere  critics  should  think 
them  too  fanciful  or  descriptive.  But  as  he  is  con 
vinced  that  the  fashion  of  moralising  in  verse  has  been 
carried  too  far,  and  as  he  looks  upon  invention  and 
imagination  as  the  chief  faculties  of  a  poet,  so  he  will 

^  Boswell  records  that  this  was  more  than  once  praised  by  Johnson, 
who  explained  Warton's  delay  in  publishing  the  second  volume  by  the 
supposition  that  he  found  himself  "a  little  disappointed  in  not  having 
been  able  to  persuade  the  world  to  be  of  his  opinion  as  to  Pope."  Part 
II.  did  not  appear  till  1782. 


CRITICISM  A^T>  VALUATION  OF  LITER ATUBE    393 

be  happy  if  the  following  odes  may  be  looked  upon  as 
an  attempt  to  bring  back  poetry  into  its  right  channel." 
Indirectly,  this  is  of  course  a  challenge  to  the  followers 
and  admirers  of  Pope.  From  these  utterances  we 
learn  that  while  a  few  poets  at  the  time  were  more  or 
less  unconsciously  experimenting  in  various  kinds  of 
poetry  different  in  matter  and  manner  from  that  to 
which  Pope  had  given  vogue,  romantic  criticism  was 
making  a  preliminary  attempt  to  formulate  principles 
and  outline  a  programme  of  its  own.  Without  enter- 
ing into  details  we  may  now  see  why  the  steady  decline 
of  Pope's  reputation  during  the  second  half  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  and  the  acceleration  of  that  decline 
as  the  century  ran  its  course,  are  facts  of  capital 
importance  for  the  student  of  literary  history.  They 
are  unmistakable  signs  of  the  rise  of  the  new  school  of 
poetry.  As  we  enter  the  nineteenth  century  we  find 
the  battle  waxing  hot  about  the  claims,  qualities,  and 
position  of  this  long-acknowledged  master  of  English 
verse.  In  this  battle  nearly  all  the  leading  critics  took 
part  on  one  or  the  other  side  ;  but  the  issue  was  the 
rout  of  the  supporters  of  the  Augustan  tradition. 
Bowles's  severe  strictures — the  first  shot  in  what  has 
been  called  a  "  thirty  years'  war  " — drew  forth  the  angry 
reply  of  Byron,  the  last  of  Pope's  "  uncompromising 
devotees "  ;  but  in  Byron's  untempered  eulogy  "  we 
already  recognise  the  note  of  half-conscious  exaggera- 
tion usual  in  the  defenders  of  a  no  longer  tenable 
cause."  ^  With  the  triumph  of  the  new  school  all 
along  the  line,  the  last  vestiges  of  the  eighteenth 
century     superstition     of     Pope's     supremacy    were 

^  A.    W.   Ward,  Introductory   Memoir  to   Globe   Edition  of  Pope's 
Works, 


394  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

destroyed,  and  Warton's  heterodoxy  passed  into  the 
orthodox  literary  creed.  Then,  as  Macaulay's  essay 
on  Byron  ( 1 8  3  i )  suffices  to  show,  extravagant  admira- 
tion gave  place  to  depreciation  almost,  if  not  quite, 
as  uncritical.  "  The  time  has  gone  by,"  says  a  most 
judicial  writer,  "  for  Pope  to  be  ranked  among  the 
master-geniuses  of  our  literature."  ^  From  this  judg- 
ment few  would  now  dissent.  Yet  it  is  to  be  regretted 
that,  as  a  consequence  of  such  sweeping  reaction,  it  is 
difficult  to-day,  as  for  many  years  past  it  has  been 
difficult,  to  appreciate  properly  Pope's  many  substantial 
merits.  In  1756  he  stood  at  the  zenith  of  his  fame, 
and  Warton  had  to  be  cautious  in  calling  attention  to 
his  defects.  A  hundred  years  later  he  was  at  his 
nadir,  and  men  like  Carruthers,  Mark  Pattison,  and, 
more  recently.  Professor  Courthope,  have  found  it  hard 
work  to  convince  their  public  that  there  is  anything 
deserving  praise  in  him. 

Other  lines  of  inquiry  running  parallel  to  this,  and 
throwing  light  repeatedly  upon  it,  will  naturally  suggest 
themselves  to  the  student  of  the  same  period  of  our 
literature.  Let  me  indicate  just  one  of  these.  Among 
the  most  important  movements  in  English  poetry 
during  the  eighteenth  century  are  those  which  are 
known  as  the  Spenserian  and  the  Ballad  Revivals. 
Both  of  these  did  much  in  helping  to  bring  the  romantic 
spirit  back  into  our  literature,  while  the  latter  also 
exercised  a  powerful  concurrent  influence  in  breaking 
down  the  Augustan  ideals  of  poetic  style,  and  spreading 
a  taste  for  naturalness  and  simplicity.  Now  each 
revival  was,  as  might  be  anticipated,  accompanied  by  a 
great  deal  of  critical  theorising  and  discussion,  out  of 

^  A.  W.  Ward,  Introductory  Memoir  to  Globe  Edition  of  Pope's  Works, 


OKITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    395 

which  came  here  and  there  some  work  of  real  and 
permanent  significance ;  such  as  Thomas  Warton's 
Observations  of  the  Faery  Queene,  and  (instructive  if  only 
on  account  of  the  editor's  timidity  in  introducing  what 
proved  to  be  an  epoch-making  work)  Percy's  preface 
to  his  Reliques,  If  we  want  to  gain  a  clear  idea  of 
what  these  two  movements  meant,  therefore,  it  will  be 
an  excellent  plan  to  consider  carefully  the  praise  and 
blame  which  they  incurred,  the  help  they  received  and 
the  opposition  which  they  encountered,  the  questions 
to  which  they  gave  rise,  the  controversies  about  literary 
principles  and  ideals  which  they  precipitated,  among 
the  critics  of  the  time. 

It  would  be  easy  of  course  to  multiply  illustrations  ; 
but  enough  has  I  think  been  said  to  make  good  the 
thesis  that  the  history  of  criticism  as  a  record  of 
changing  ideas  concerning  every  aspect  and  quality  of 
literature  provides  an  almost  indispensable  supplement 
to,  I  may  even  go  so  far  as  to  say  a  valuable  com- 
mentary upon,  the  history  of  literary  production.  It 
is,  in  fact,  to  the  history  of  criticism  that  wc  must 
often  turn  if  we  would  discover  the  rationale  of  the 
changes  which  we  have  to  follow  in  studying  the 
history  of  literature. 

Several  general  considerations  of  some  importance 
may    here    be   mentioned.      Criticism,    as    I    criycism 
have  said,  has  habitually  been  conservative  ;  it    and  Pro- 
has  sought  guidance  mainly  in  the  past ;  it   ^^^*^®°' 
has  rarely  favoured   experiments  or  new  departures  ; 
its  power  has  commonly  been  exercised  to  hamper  and 
restrain.       In    every   period    of   change,    therefore,   a 
struggle  has  of  necessity  arisen  between  the  forces  of 
production  and  those  of  criticism.     This  struggle  is 


396  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

only  one  phase  of  the  conflict  which  is  ever  going  on 
in  all  departments  of  life  and  thought  between  liberty 
and  authority,  originality  and  tradition,  individuality 
and  rules,  the  old  and  the  new.  In  literature  as  else- 
where, therefore,  times  of  concentration  and  quiescence, 
during  which  the  critical  spirit  predominates  and  men 
move  only  along  well-beaten  ways,  alternate  with  times 
of  expansion  and  adventure,  during  which  the  creative 
energy  reasserts  itself,  and  impatient  genius  goes 
forth  in  quest  of  "  fresh  woods  and  pastures  new."  In 
literature  as  elsewhere,  too,  while  critical  opinion 
always  tends  to  harden  into  dogmatic  creeds,  the  pro- 
cess is  repeatedly  interrupted  by  the  rise  and  spread  of 
heresies,  which,  denounced  in  one  generation,  become 
accepted  tenets  of  orthodoxy  in  the  next.  And  in 
literature  as  elsewhere,  as  we  must  not  fail  to  remember, 
if  the  abuse  of  authority  ends  in  despotism,  liberty 
may  too  easily  run  into  licence.  Again  and  again 
history  has  proved  that  the  best  interests  of  literature 
have  been  subserved  by  open  defiance  of  the  critic's 
"  this  will  never  do."  Yet  the  influence  of  criticism  as 
a  controlling  power  is  not  therefore  to  be  despised. 
If  the  critics  had  had  their  way,  there  would  have 
been  no  Shakespearean  drama  and  no  Romantic 
movement.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  no  one  will  deny 
that  some  of  the  conspicuous  excesses  which  char- 
acterised both  the  Shakespearean  drama  and  the 
Romantic  movement  might  have  been  checked,  and 
with  much  advantage,  had  more  attention  been  paid  to 
the  rules  of  the  critics.^ 

^  I  have  elsewhere  pointed  out  that  at  the  time  when  Shakespeare 
himself  could  in  The  Winter  s  Tale  so  clearly  exemplify  the  dangers  of 
romantic  excess,  there  was  ample  warrant  for  Jonson's  propaganda   in 


CKITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    397 

It  must,  however,  be  borne  in  mind  that,  save  in 
the  way  of  restraint  and  guidance,  criticism  has  played 
little  part  in  the  development  of  literature.  It  has 
seldom  given  any  originative  impulse  or  broken  new 
ground.  Occasionally  a  fresh  movement  has  been 
accompanied  or  even  preceded  by  a  critical  programme, 
as  was  to  some  extent  the  case  with  the  Romantic 
movement  in  France.  But  generally  creative  genius 
leads  the  way,  and  criticism  follows.  Indeed,  when 
this  relation  is  reversed,  the  results  are  seldom  very 
satisfactory,  since  literature  written  to  order  and  in 
accordance  with  a  definite  code,  is  almost  certain  to  be 
characterised  by  a  certain  quality  of  premeditation  and 
strain.  Even  where  a  poet  is  critic  as  well  as  poet,  it 
may  be  laid  down  as  a  general  law  that  he  works  as  a 
poet  best  when  he  works  on  the  natural  promptings  of 
his  genius,  and  without  thought  of  illustrating  any  pre- 
conceived theory ;  as  such  writers  as  Wordsworth, 
Matthew  Arnold,  and  Walt  Whitman  may  be  cited  to 
prove.  In  the  general  evolution  of  literature,  there- 
fore, criticism  will  be  found  habitually  to  lag  behind 
production.  Each  new  movement  is  likely  at  first  to 
meet  with  more  or  less  pronounced  critical  opposition. 
But  by  little  and  little,  theory  overtakes  practice. 
Thus  criticism  gradually  adjusts  itself  to  the  new  ideas 
and  principles ;  and  then  it  becomes  one  of  the  critic's 
chief  functions  to  draw  them  out  and  formulate  them, 
to  investigate  their  foundations,  and  to  explain  their 
meaning. 

favour   of  unity  and  restraint  in  the   drama  (see   Introduction  to  The 
Wintet's  Tale^  in  The  Elizabethan  Shakespeare)^ 


398  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUBE 


I  have  now  indicated  some  of  the  main  lines  of  in- 
ThePro-     quiry    which    have    to   be     followed    in    the 

biem  of       methodical   study  of  criticism,  and  some  of 

the  Valua-  . 

tionof        the  principal  questions  to  be  considered  by 

Literature,  ^j^g  ^^y^      j|.  remains  for  us  to  deal  with  the 

problem  of  the  valuation  of  literature  in  its  practical 

bearings. 

Two  facts  stand  out  clearly.  On  the  one  hand, 
despite  all  modern  theories  as  to  the  possibility  of  a 
purely  "  scientific  "  kind  of  criticism  in  which  no  effort 
will  be  made  to  pass  from  interpretation  to  appraise- 
ment, judgment,  universal  in  the  past,  must  still  be 
regarded  as  one  of  the  proper  functions  of  criticism. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  results  attained  by  the  exercise 
of  judgment  have  on  the  whole  been  so  variable, 
uncertain,  and  inconclusive,  that  while  its  title  cannot 
be  impugned,  its  utility  may  well  be  called  in  question. 
In  view  of  these  facts  we  cannot  be  surprised  if  a  very 
common  idea  about  criticism  comes  somewhat  to  this — 
that  every  critic  has  of  course  a  perfect  right  to  hold 
his  own  opinion,  and  to  do  what  lies  in  his  power  to 
persuade  other  people  to  agree  with  him  ;  but  that  as, 
in  the  words  of  one  of  Montaigne's  favourite  mottoes, 
"  to  every  opinion  an  opinion  of  equal  weight  may  be 
opposed,"  criticism  as  a  whole  has  proved  a  mere  "  self- 
cancelling  business,"  and  has  accomplished  little  or 
nothing  towards  any  final  establishment  of  literary 
values.  It  is  well  enough  to  talk  about  a  critic's 
"judicial"  faculty.  But,  it  may  be  asked,  is  a  critic, 
strictly  speaking,  a  judge  ?  Is  he  not  rather,  and  in 
the  very  nature  of  the  case,  an  advocate  ? 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    399 

We  are  thus  brought  round  to  the  full  significance 
of  the  contention,  often   urged,  that  all  judg- 
ment    in  literature  is,  whether  avowedly  or  judgment 
not,    necessarily     personal     in    source     and  pg^gQ^^^J^ 
character. 

"  Now,  who  shall  arbitrate  ? 

Ten  men  love  what  I  hate, 
Shun  what  I  follow,  slight  what  I  receive ; 

Ten,  who  in  ears  and  eyes 

Match  me  ;  we  all  surmise, 
They,  this  thing,  and  I,  that :  whom  shall  my  soul  believe  ?  " 

If  I  express  a  certain  view  concerning  the  value 
of  a  book  I  have  just  been  reading,  this,  it  is  said, 
is  my  view,  and  no  more.  If  some  one  else  ex- 
presses a  view  which  absolutely  contradicts  mine, 
then  we  have  only  one  person's  individual  judgment 
set  against  another's.  If  a  third  person  intervenes  in 
the  discussion  and  agrees  with  either  or  neither,  he 
only  adds  one  more  individual  judgment  to  increase 
the  confusion.  Now  here,  it  may  be  argued,  we  have 
an  illustration  in  little  of  the  processes  of  criticism  at 
large.  "  No  two  persons  ever  read  the  same  book," 
and  each  one  can  talk  only  of  the  book  that  he  has  read. 
The  professional  critic  may  pose  in  a  judicial  r61e, 
employ  a  technical  language,  and  make  a  vast  parade 
of  principles,  standards,  and  authorities.  But  as  he 
can  never  escape  from  himself,  his  opinions,  like  those 
of  the  first  man  we  may  find  airing  his  ignorance  and 
Philistinism  in  a  railway  carriage,  may  ultimately  be 
traced  back  to  a  purely  personal  origin.  And  can 
criticism  ever  be  redeemed  from  the  charge  of  mere 
arbitrariness  and  caprice  which  thus  rests  upon  it? 
Can  it  ever  be  more  than  the  registration  and  formal 


400  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

statement  of  tastes,  likes,  dislikes,  which  fluctuate  with 
the  critic's  changing  moods,  and  depend  on  tempera- 
ment, education,  bias  ?  Degustibus  non  est  disputandum. 

Among  critics  themselves  there  are  not  wanting 
those  who  take  up  the  position  that,  however  much 
principles  and  criteria  may  be  invoked,  whatever 
efforts  may  be  made  to  eliminate  the  personal  factor, 
all  criticism  is  fundamentally  subjective  and  im- 
pressionistic. Thus  Mr  Andrew  Lang  declares  that 
the  only  criticism  worth  reading  is  that  which 
"  narrates  the  adventures  of  an  ingenious  and  educated 
mind  in  contact  with  masterpieces  " ;  and  thus  M. 
Anatole  France  insists  that  a  lecturer  on  literature,  if 
he  were  really  honest,  instead  of  using  the  time- 
honoured  exordium — "  Gentlemen,  I  am  going  to 
speak  to  you  to-day  about  Pascal,  or  Racine,  or 
Shakespeare,"  should  rather  begin  his  discourse  with 
the  words — "  Gentlemen,  I  am  going  to  speak  to  you 
to-day  about  myself  in  relation  to  Pascal,  or  Racine, 
or  Shakespeare." 

Here,   undoubtedly,  we   come  face  to  face  with  a 

real  difficulty.      Yet  it  must  be  observed  that 

in  Value      even  if  the  extreme  view  so  cleverly  put  by 

in  Personal  t^g  brilliant  Frenchman  be  accepted — even 
Judgments.  .  -   ^        ,  i  r  /    i  •  .1 

if,  for  the  sake  of  argument,  we  decline,  with 

him,  to  acknowledge  the  existence  of  any  principles 

which  are  not  mere  products  of  individual  taste,  and  may 

therefore  be  of  service  in  controlling  and  guiding  it — 

we  are  not  necessarily  committed  to  universal  nihilism. 

Looking  at  the  subject  for  the  moment  in  the  broadest 

possible  way,  we  may  fairly  maintain  that  in  the  vast 

majority  of  cases  there  is  an  appreciable  difference  in 

value  between  judgment  and  judgment,  for  the  simple 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITEKATURE    401 

reason  that  there  is  an  appreciable  difference  in 
value  between  judge  and  judge.  This,  indeed,  has 
already  been  made  clear.  Every  man  may  be  entitled 
to  his  own  private  opinion  on  questions  of  literature, 
as  on  all  other  subjects  ;  but  there  is  no  subject  (and 
if  there  be,  that  subject  is  certainly  not  literature)  on 
which  one  man's  opinion  can  be  deemed  as  good  as 
another's.  Mr  Lang's  likes  and  dislikes  in  the  matter 
of  books  may  often  seem  to  some  of  us  a  trifle 
whimsical  and  even  perverse  ;  but  they  are  always 
worthy  of  more  consideration  than  those  of  the  man 
in  the  street  just  because  he  is  Mr  Lang  and  has 
"  an  ingenious  and  educated  mind "  ;  and  we  listen 
with  greater  attention  to  M.  Anatole  France  when  he 
talks  of  himself  in  relation  to  Pascal,  or  Racine,  or 
Shakespeare,  than  to  some  chance  acquaintance  who 
talks  of  himself  in  relation  to  the  same  theme,  because, 
knowing  M.  France  as  we  do,  we  feel  assured  to  begin 
with  that  whatever  he  may  have  to  tell  us  about  his 
personal  impressions  will  be  marked  by  exceptional 
insight  and  sagacity.  "  As  the  object  of  poetry  is  to 
give  pleasure,"  wrote  Lord  Jeffrey  in  one  of  his  essays 
on  Scott,  "  it  would  seem  to  be  a  pretty  safe  con- 
clusion, that  that  poetry  must  be  the  best  which  gives 
the  greatest  pleasure  to  the  greatest  number  of 
readers "  ;  after  which  the  critic  proceeded  to  argue 
(rather  feebly  it  must  be  confessed),  against  what  he 
called  this  "  plausible "  proposition.  But  is  any 
argument  required  to  exhibit  its  absurdity  ?  Is  it 
really  in  the  least  plausible?  A  hundred  persons 
may  enjoy  T/te  Abse^tt- Minded  Beggar  for  one  who 
enjoys  Lycidas ;  but  would  any  one  of  the  hundred 
have  the  temerity  to  draw  the  inference  to  which  the 

2C 


402  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

suggested  "  safe  conclusion  "  points  ?  No  one,  I  think, 
would  venture  to  apply  the  Benthamite  maxim  to 
matters  of  art ;  no  one  would  undertake  seriously  to 
contend  that  popularity  is  the  final  test  of  merit,  or 
that  a  piece  of  literature,  or  a  picture,  or  a  musical 
composition,  is  to  be  estimated  by  its  power  of  appeal 
to  the  uneducated  multitude  rather  than  to  the 
educated  few.  It  is  reported  that  at  the  present  time 
one  of  the  most  widely-read  of  English  novelists  is  a 
certain  manufacturer  of  sporting  stories,  whose  works 
are  probably  devoured  by  a  public  fifty  times  larger 
than  that  which  knows  and  esteems  The  Egoist  or 
The  Ordeal  of  Richard  Feverel.  But  is  our  confidence 
in  the  immeasurable  superiority  of  Mr  George 
Meredith  in  the  least  shaken  ?  On  the  contrary,  our 
comment  simply  is — so  much  the  worse  for  the  fact. 
Those  who  emphasise  most  strongly  the  infinite 
variation  of  taste  in  regard  to  all  aesthetic  questions 
must  therefore  admit  that  the  element  of  quality  enters 
into  the  variation,  and  that  a  distinction  is  to  be 
drawn  between  trained  and  untrained  taste,  between 
good  taste  and  bad. 

These  considerations  help  to  clear  away  some  mis- 
apprehensions which  certainly  exist,  and  often  crop  up 
in  conversation,  about  the  problem  of  the  valuation  of 
literature.  It  is  true  that  they  leave  untouched  the 
old  difficulty  of  the  differences  in  judgment  among 
the  experts  themselves.  To  this  we  will  return 
directly.  One  important  point  in  connection  with  our 
own  personal  attitude  to  literature  must  first  be  made. 

If  I  express  a  certain  view  as  to  the  value  of  a 
book  I  have  been  reading,  then — as  I  put  it  just 
now — it   is  sometimes  argued  that  this  is  my  view, 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    403 

and    nothing    more.       In    that  view,   it   is   moreover 
assumed,  I   must  rest,  and  whatever  import-  The  Real 

ance   it   possesses    it    possesses   only   as    an  Problem  of 

^  .   .  Personal 

indication  of  one  person's  individual  taste.  Enjoy- 
But  here  a  question  arises  which  at  once  puts  °^®^*- 
this  fact  of  individual  taste  under  a  fresh  light.  Is  the 
opinion  I  have  formed  about  the  said  book  necessarily 
final,  even  for  me  ?  Is  it  an  opinion  which  I  myself 
have  to  accept  as,  so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  completely 
satisfactory  ?  I  say — I  have  enjoyed  this  book  ;  it 
has  amused,  pleased,  touched  me ;  and  there  the 
matter  ends.  But  does  the  matter  end  there  ? 
Certainly  not.  As  Sainte-Beuve  pointed  out,  the 
real  question  to  be  examined  is,  not  whether  we 
have  enjoyed  a  particular  work  of  art,  whether  it 
has  amused,  pleased,  touched  us,  but  whether  we 
were  right  in  enjoying  it,  in  being  amused,  pleased, 
touched  by  it.  Beyond  the  question  of  our  pleasure 
in  a  given  piece  of  literature,  there  lies  therefore  the 
further  question  of  the  justification  of  that  pleasure 
and  the  quality  of  it.  We  have  our  likes  and 
dislikes,  and  these,  when  analysed,  may  be  found 
to  strike  their  roots  so  deep  down  into  the  subsoil 
of  temperament,  and  to  be  so  closely  entangled  with 
all  the  intellectual  and  moral  elements  which  make 
up  character,  that  to  control  them  may  seem  difficult, 
to  eradicate  them,  impossible.  Yet  which  of  us 
does  not  realise  that  there  is  a  world  of  difference 
between  liking  or  disliking  a  thing,  and  feeling 
satisfied  that  we  ought  to  like  or  dislike  it?  The 
majority  of  people  think  so  lightly  of  their  relations 
with  the  various  forms  of  art,  and  are  so  apt  to 
assume    that    their    own    immediate    pleasure    is    for 


404  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

them  the  final  criterion  of  value,  that  they  will 
hardly  pause  to  note  the  implications  of  the  distinction. 
But  once  noted,  they  open  up  a  wide  field  for  con- 
sideration. We  know  perfectly  well  that  when  we 
pronounce  judgment  upon  a  book  in  terms  only 
of  our  private  likes  and  dislikes,  and  without  making 
any  attempt  to  transcend  these,  we  are  really  passing 
judgment  not  so  much  upon  the  book  as  upon 
ourselves.  In  this  case,  then,  M.  Anatole  France's 
view  of  the  significance  of  our  judgment  is  entirely 
sound.  But  we  know  also,  though  it  may  require 
some  courage  to  confess  it,  that  in  such  judgment  we 
often  define  our  own  limitations.  Thus  we  may 
recognise  the  existence  of  great  qualities  in  a  given 
piece  of  literature  even  when  we  are  unable  to  enjoy 
it ;  indeed,  it  may  frequently  happen  (and  of  this 
too  we  are  all  aware),  that  it  is  by  reason  of  its  great 
qualities  that  a  piece  of  literature  may  fail  to  amuse, 
please,  touch  us — may  even  baffle  and  repel  us  ;  for 
the  enjoyment  of  greatness  in  art  needs  strenuous 
effort  which,  through  indolence  or  apathy  or  want 
of  preparation,  we  may  be  unwilling  or  unable  to 
put  forth  ;  and  we  may  therefore  prefer  to  rest  among 
lower  things — among  the  things  which,  because  they 
are  lower,  give  us  less  trouble  to  understand  and 
enjoy.  But  if  we  think  of  literary  culture  as  a 
matter  of  serious  import  in  life,  it  is  not  among  these 
lower  things — these  things  which  give  us  the  least 
Some  trouble — that  we  shall  be  content  always  to 

Practical  j-est.  Now,  if  we  make  a  practice  of  looking 
of  this  back  at  what  we  have  read,  with  the  deter- 
Probiem.  mination  to  detach  ourselves  from  the  feel- 
ings aroused  at  the  time  of  reading,  we  shall  find  it 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    405 

possible  to  examine  these  feelings  critically,  to 
weigh  them,  and  to  decide  whether  we  are  satisfied 
that  they  were  aroused  with  good  cause,  and  whether 
the  pleasure  we  have  taken  in  a  book  was  worthily 
taken  in  worthy  things.  A  further  test — a  test 
proposed  centuries  ago  by  one  of  the  earliest  critics — 
may  also  be  applied  :  if  the  longer  we  read  a  book 
the  less  we  think  of  it,  and  if  the  effect  it  produces 
is  "  not  sustained  beyond  the  mere  act  of  perusal," 
then  we  may  be  certain  that,  however  much  we 
may  have  enjoyed  it  at  the  moment,  it  is  after  all 
a  slight  and  trivial  thing.^  The  truth,  which  can  never 
be  too  often  repeated,  will  thus  be  brought  home  to 
us,  that  our  personal  pleasure  is  one  thing  and 
our  estimate  of  our  personal  pleasure  another.  They 
may  correspond  ;  but  also,  they  may  not ;  and  where 
they  do  not,  it  is  clearly  our  duty  to  make  a  resolute 
and  systematic  attempt  to  over-rule  the  one  by  the 
other.  To  start  with  the  assumption  that  we  must 
take  our  likes  and  dislikes  as  we  find  them,  and 
allow  them,  unchallenged,  to  dictate  to  us,  is  to 
negative  in  advance  all  hope  of  growth  in  critical 
power,  insight,  appreciation.  In  matters  of  literature 
as  in  all  other  matters,  we  stand  in  imperative  need, 
as  Mr  Bosanquet  has  said,  of  ''training  in  enjoy- 
ment." ^  That  to  a  certain  extent  we  are  bound  to 
acknowledge  the  reality  of  some  standards  of  value, 
even  for  us,  outside  of  our  own  personal  feelings 
and  independent  of  them,  is  now  evident.  Our 
great    aim    must    therefore    be    to    read    with   these 

^  Longinus,  On  the  Sublime^  trans.,  H.  L.  Havell,  c.  vii. 
2  See  the  admirable   essay  on   this   subject    in    The   Civilisation  of 
Christendovi  and  Other  Studies. 


4o6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

standards  always  in  mind,  to  appreciate  frankly 
our  deficiencies  and  limitations,  and  by  submitting 
ourselves  patiently  and  whole-heartedly  to  the  dis- 
cipline of  the  things  which  we  recognise  as  best 
worthy  of  our  attention,  however  far  they  may, 
for  the  time  being,  seem  to  lie  beyond  us,  to  lift 
ourselves  little  by  little  towards  their  level,  and  so 
to  educate  ourselves  in  judgment  and  taste.  Such 
self-culture  in  the  enjoyment  of  literature  is  possible 
for  those  who  will  take  themselves  seriously 
in  hand  ;  and  no  one  who  from  experience 
has  learned  anything  of  the  results  will  deny  that, 
if  the  labour  is  often  great,  great  also  is  the 
reward. 

So  much  for  this  question  of  tastes  and  standards 
as  it  directly  concerns  ourselves.  We  have  still  to 
consider  the  problem,  so  frequently  referred  to  already, 
of  the  continual  and  often  astonishing  differences  in 
judgment  which  we  find  among  the  professed  critics 
and  arbiters  of  taste. 

Thus  far  we  have  tacitly  taken  it  for  granted  that 
Is  Criticism  the  commonly  accepted  extreme  view  is 
*gi|i^g^"*^^'correct  and  needs  no  qualification  ;  that 
Business?"  criticism  is  a  "  self-cancelling  business  "  ;  that 
its  history  is  little  more  than  a  record  of  quarrels  and 
contradictions,  assertions  and  denials,  standards  set  up 
only  to  be  knocked  down  again.  But  is  this  really  a 
fair  statement  of  the  facts  ?  Are  the  results  attained 
by  the  exercise  of  judgment  in  literature  quite  so 
variable,  uncertain,  and  inconclusive  as  they  are  often 
alleged  to  be  and  may  at  first  sight  appear?  The 
answer  must  be,  that  though  the  commonly  accepted 
extreme  view  contains  a  great  deal  of  truth,  it  does 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    407 

not  by  any  means  contain  the  whole  truth.  Nothing 
is  easier  than  by  a  judicious  selection  of  telling 
examples  (and  they  may  be  found  by  the  score)  to 
make  out  a  strong  case  against  the  utility  of  criticism. 
But  it  must  never  be  forgotten  that  while  the  history 
of  criticism  does  exhibit  the  strangest  oppositions  of 
taste  and  the  most  violent  fluctuations  of  judgment 
even  in  regard  to  subjects  of  fundamental  importance, 
it  exhibits  also  from  time  to  time  a  well-marked 
tendency  among  the  critics  to  come  to  a  substantial 
agreement  on  essential  points,  and  here  and  there, 
even  more  notably,  a  long-standing  and  almost  com- 
plete unanimity  as  to  the  significance  and  value  of 
particular  *'  masterpieces  "  of  literature.  If  divergences 
are  picked  out  and  made  much  of,  agreement  and 
unanimity,  wherever  they  are  found,  must  surely  not 
be  left  out  of  account. 

Let  us  try  to  understand  exactly  all  that  is  implied 
by  the  existence  in  certain  cases  of  a  practical 
concensus  of  critical  opinion. 

I  am,  we  will  suppose,  anxious  to  substantiate  or 
correct  the  judgment  which  I  have  privately    what  does 
formed    concerning     a     particular    book,    or  it  mean 
perhaps,    finding     it    difficult    to    form    any   critics 
judgment,  I  feel  in  need  of  help  in  coming  to   ^s^ee? 
a  decision  regarding  it.      I  therefore  lend  the  book  to 
half  a  dozen  friends  successively,  asking  each  to  give 
me  honestly  his  own  opinion  upon  it ;  and  in  order  to 
make    my    experiment    as    broad    and    searching    as 
possible,  I  am  careful  to  choose  persons  whose  views 
I  shall  necessarily  hold  in  respect,  but  whom   I   know 
to  be  most  widely  divergent  in  temperament,  interests, 
ideas  of  life  and   literature,  and   training.     Now  the 


4o8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATUEE 

chances  are  that  when  my  six  reports  come  in,  I  shall 
find  them  almost  hopelessly  at  variance  with  one 
another,  and  that  therefore,  though  they  may  be  of 
interest  and  assistance  to  me  as  expressions  of 
individual  tastes,  they  will  have  little  value  in  any 
other  way.  But  suppose  that  of  the  six  readers  who, 
according  to  our  hypothesis,  have  studied  the  book  from 
six  very  different  points  of  view,  and  have  brought  six 
markedly  different  types  of  mind  to  bear  upon  it,  five, 
though  their  reports  may  vary  much  in  matters  of 
detail,  practically  agree  in  their  sense  of  its  value,  and 
lay  their  emphasis  upon  the  same  qualities  of  matter 
and  treatment.  In  this  case  I  shall  feel,  and  rightly 
feel,  that  to  some  extent  the  element  of  mere  person- 
ality and  bias  has  been  eliminated,  and  this  feeling 
will  grow  stronger  in  proportion  as  the  agreement  is 
more  and  more  close  among  those  whose  individual 
differences  of  taste  are  the  most  pronounced.  As  for 
the  one  dissentient,  though,  if  it  were  a  question  of 
setting  him  individually  against  any  one  of  the  other 
five,  I  might  hold  his  opinion  at  least  equally  worthy  of 
my  attention,  the  weight  of  the  authority  of  the  other 
five  being  against  him,  I  shall  most  probably  treat  him 
merely  as  a  dissentient,  and  perhaps  at  my  leisure 
shall  proceed  to  inquire  into  the  grounds  of  his  non- 
conformity. I  have  here,  then,  to  work  upon  a  general 
consensus  of  opinion  where  difference  rather  than 
agreement  was  to  be  looked  for ;  and  whether  such 
opinion  harmonises  with  my  own  or  not,  I  shall  accept 
it  as  a  substantial  indication  of  the  real  qualities  of 
the  book  under  consideration. 

What  is  the  moral  of  this  suppositious  case  ?      It  is 
so  clear  that  it  hardly  needs  to  be  pointed  out.     The 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    409 

experiment  which  I  have  imagined  to  be  made  on  a 
very  small  scale,  has  actually  been  made  on  an 
immense  scale,  and  the  general  concensus  of  opinion 
among  those  who  might  be  expected  to  disagree, 
which  I  have  conceived  as  possible,  has  in  sundry 
cases  in  fact  been  reached.  In  other  words,  in  regard 
to  the  value  of  a  certain  amount  of  literature,  we  are 
neither  left  to  the  isolated  judgments  of  individual 
authorities,  speaking  each  only  for  himself,  nor  con- 
founded by  the  contradictions  of  supporters  of  rival 
creeds.  We  have  instead  a  practical  concord  among 
critics,  not  only  of  very  different  characters  and 
education,  but  also  of  different  nations,  epochs  and 
schools ;  and  against  such  general  concord  all 
occasional  utterances  of  dissent,  though  often  not  to 
be  ignored,  avail  but  little.  What  is  the  inference  ? 
Such  literature  has  been  tried  repeatedly,  and  by  the 
most  various  tests  and  standards,  and  under  every 
fresh  scrutiny  it  has  only  revealed  some  hitherto  un- 
perceived  elements  of  strength  and  beauty.  It  has 
maintained  its  place  amid  the  most  sweeping  fluctua- 
tions of  taste.  The  rise  and  fall  of  critical  dynasties 
have  left  it  almost  untouched.  Its  qualities  therefore 
are  no  longer  matters  of  mere  personal  opinion.  Its 
greatness  has  been  proved.  For  the  secret  Howgreat- 
of  such  stability  and  persistence,  of  such  Literature 
universal  and  permanent  appeal,  can  be  found  is  Proved. 
only  in  essential  greatness — in  trancendent  vitality 
and  power. 

We  have  therefore  to  recognise  as  one  fact  of 
capital  importance  in  the  history  of  literature  what 
Hume  describes  as  "  the  durable  admiration  which 
attends  those  works  that  have  survived  all  the  caprices 


410  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

of  mode  and  fashion,  all  the  mistakes  of  ignorance 
and  envy."  The  perennial  life  of  the  Iliad  and  the 
Odyssey  may  be  cited  in  illustration.  "  The  same 
Homer  who  pleased  at  Athens  and  Rome  two 
thousand  years  ago,  is  still  admired  at  Paris  and  at 
London.  All  the  changes  of  climate,  government, 
religion,  and  language,  have  not  been  able  to  obscure 
his  glory."  ^  These  words  were  first  published  in 
1742,  and  how  completely  our  whole  conception  of 
literature  in  general  and  of  Homer  in  particular  has 
been  transformed  since  then,  is  made  clear  if  we 
remember  that  to  us  to-day  Pope's  "  drawing-room 
versions "  of  the  Homeric  poems  seem  almost  like 
some  eighteenth  century  travesty  of  the  originals. 
Yet  the  declaration  remains  as  true  now  as  it  was 
when  Hume  penned  it.  We  may  therefore  read  the 
Iliad  and  the  Odyssey^  or  we  may  set  them  aside  in 
favour  of  the  last  new  novel,  hot  from  the  printing- 
press,  the  talk  of  the  hour,  and  certain  to  be  forgotten 
to-morrow ;  if  we  read  them,  we  may  enjoy  them  or 
not  as  the  case  may  be ;  we  may  consult  this  critic 
and  that,  and  discover  multitudinous  differences  in 
detail  in  the  opinions  expressed  ;  we  may  make  the 
most  ample  allowance  for  that  academic  bias  which, 
as  I  have  said,  still  leads  a  particular  class  of  writers 
to  attach  an  exaggerated  importance  to  anything  and 
everything  that  has  come  down  to  us  from  Greek  and 
Latin  antiquity.  But  one  fact  stands  out.  The  im- 
perishable interest  of  these  poems  furnishes  overwhelm- 
ing evidence  of  their  real  greatness  and  supremacy 
And  of  the  real  greatness  and  supremacy  of  other 
bodies  of  literature — of  the  Greek  drama,  for  example, 

»  Hume's  Essays,  Part  I.,  No.  XXIII.,  Of  the  Standard  of  Taste. 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    411 

and  the  plays  of  Shakespeare,  and  the  work  of  Dante 
and  Milton — we  have  similar  evidence  almost  as 
overwhelming.^  These  works,  then,  so  tried  and  so 
proved,  we  may  accept  as  "  classics  "  ;  for  a 
"classic"  maybe  simply  defined  as  a  ^ook^^^^J^^^^,, 
which  has  stood  the  test  of  time,  and  by  its 
stability  and  permanence,  and  the  universality  and 
persistency  of  its  appeal,  has  given  unmistakable 
assurance  of  immortal  life. 

A  principle  of  the  utmost  significance  in  the  valua- 
tion of  literature  is  thus  established — the  <<catho- 
principle  of  Quod  ubique^  quod  semper^  quod  licity "  in 
ab  omnibus.  "  In  general,"  as  Longinus  ^i*®^**^®- 
wrote,  "  we  may  regard  those  words  as  truly  noble 
and  sublime,  which  please  all  and  please  always. 
For  where  the  same  book  produces  the  same  im- 
pression on  all  who  read  it,  whatever  be  the  differences 
in  their  pursuits,  their  manner  of  life,  their  aspirations, 
their  ages,  or  their  language,  such  a  harmony  of 
opposites  gives  authority  to  their  favourable  opinion."  ^ 

I  need  not  take  space  to  show  in  what  sense  this 
principle  of  "  catholicity "  has  to  be  understood,  and 
what  qualifications  have  to  be  introduced  into  the 
statement  of  it  in  order  to  prevent  any  careless  con- 
fusion of  the  truth  on  which  it  rests  with  the  wholly 
false  notion,  already  mentioned,  that  the  value  of 
literature  can  in  the  least  degree  be  inferred  from  its 
popularity  with  certain  classes  of  readers  at  any  given 
time.     One  point,  however,  calls  for  special  attention. 

1  In  the  case  of  Shakespeare,  as  we  have  already  had  occasion  to  re- 
mark, there  has  been  much  dissent.  But  this  dissent  is  easily  explained, 
and  when  explained,  is  found  to  have  little  value. 

2  Op.  cit. ,  c.  vii. 


412  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

A  chief  "note  of  catholicity"  in  literature  is,  as  we 
have  now  seen,  its  lasting  power — its  power  of  con- 
tinued life.  But  this  power  of  continued  life  depends 
upon  qualities  quite  different  from  those  which  com- 
monly ensure  immediate  general  success.  This  fact 
has  some  important  implications. 

Throughout  the  whole  range  of  life,  as  we  all  know, 

the    struggle    for    existence    results    in    the 

struggle     survival  of  what  is  fittest   to  survive.      The 

for  Ex-        persistence  of  any  organism  in  this  struggle 

andSur-      is    possible    only    through    its     capacity    for 

yiyai  in  adaptation  to  its  environment :  where  an 
Literature.  '■ 

organism  fails  to  adapt  itself  to  a  changing 

environment,  it  perishes  ;  while  the  higher  the  organism 

the    greater    its   power   of  adaptation    to   perpetually 

changing    and     increasingly    complex     surroundings. 

These  are  familiar  biological  truths,  and  I  recall  them 

now  because  of  their   bearing  upon   the   problem   of 

survival,   and    therefore    of   fitness,    in    literature.     A 

book,  like  any  other  organism,  succeeds  in  the   first 

instance  by  reason  of  its  adjustment  to  its  conditions  ; 

in  other  words,  it  succeeds  by  its  power  of  interesting 

the  particular  body  of  readers  to  whom  it  is  addressed  ; 

and  its  immediate  success  is  of  course  to  be  measured 

by  the  extent  of  the   interest  which   it   arouses.     A 

book  which  enjoys  an  enormous  vogue  does  so  because, 

as  we  say,  it  hits  the  popular  taste  ;  because,  that  is, 

for  one  or  another  reason,  it  falls  in  with  and  expresses 

the  mood  of  the  hour,  deals  with  the  things   which 

people   are    thinking    and    talking    about,    and    is   in 

consequence    exactly    the    kind    of    book    for    which 

the  public   is   ready,  and  which  it  is   most  eager  to 

read.      But   the   adaptation    which   thus   secures   im- 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    413 

mediate  success  may  be  an  adaptation  only  to  con- 
ditions which  are  local  and  transitory.  If  so,  then, 
when  the  mood  has  passed,  when  the  things  which 
people  were  thinking  and  talking  about  at  the  time 
have  ceased  to  interest  them,  the  book  becomes 
obsolete ;  they  no  longer  read  it,  and  very  probably, 
if  they  concern  themselves  about  it  at  all,  they  marvel 
greatly  at  the  enthusiasm  with  which  it  was  first 
received.^  Any  piece  of  art  which  is  merely  timely 
must  sooner  or  later  perish  of  its  timeliness,  for  having 
nothing  in  it  which  transcends  the  fashions  from  which 
it  drew  its  nourishment,  it  inevitably  dies  with  them. 
Thus  the  very  causes  which  gave  it  a  temporar); 
popularity  operate  against  its  continued  life.  Such  is 
the  history  of  many  books  which  have  flourished  for  a 
season,  but  whose  place  a  new  generation  knows  no 
more.  But  there  are  other  books  which,  as  I  ^^  ^^^^ 
have  said,  possess  the  power  of  surviving  all  Books 
changes  of  fashion,  taste,  and  even  civilisation.  ^^'^®- 
Why  is  this  ?  Because  they  are  capable  of  continuous 
adjustment  and  re-adjustment  to  the  ever-developing 
conditions  of  our  moral  and  intellectual  life.  They 
had  a  message  and  meaning  for  their  own  age  ;  they 
have  a  message  and  meaning  for  us  still.  Such  books 
may  have  been,  in  a  large  number  of  cases  they  un- 
doubtedly were,  in  the  narrowest  sense  of  the  word, 
timely.     But  they  do  not  survive  in  virtue    of  their 

^  One  frequently  recurring  problem  for  the  literary  historian  is  that  of 
explaining  by  reference  to  the  conditions  of  the  time  of  production  the 
immense  success  of  various  works  (such  as  Lillo's  George  Barnwell  and 
Schiller's  The  Robbers),  which  are  now  little  more  than  curiosities.  In 
dealing  with  the  historical  study  of  literature  I  have  already  shown  the 
vital  interest  which  may  still  belong  to  many  of  these  books  (Chap.  II. 
§  3).     But  this  is  not  now  the  question. 


414  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

timeliness,  but  rather  in  despite  of  it  ;  for  whatever 
they  carry  with  them  which  belonged  only  to  the 
place  and  time  of  their  birth,  is  an  obstacle  to  their 
endurance  and  not  a  help,  though  it  was  very  probably 
a  help  to  their  first  success.  They  survive  because, 
however  much  they  may  originally  have  appealed  to 
interests  which  in  the  nature  of  things  could  not  but 
be  local  and  transient,  they  contain  elements  which, 
now  that  these  special  interests  are  long  since  dead, 
have  still  the  power  to  delight,  move,  inspire.  And 
here,  perhaps,  the  analogy  between  the  phenomena  of 
biology  and  those  of  literature  partly  fails.  For  the 
literature  which  survives  all  changes  of  fashion,  taste, 
and  civilisation  does  so,  not  so  much  because  it  actually 
adjusts  itself  to  new  modes  of  life,  thought,  and  speech, 
as  because  in  its  essential  composition  it  was  from 
the  outset  adapted  to  what  is  primary,  elemental,  and 
uniform  in  human  nature  and  experience,  and  there- 
fore to  conditions  which  persist,  independent  of  place 
and  time.  It  is  certain  that,  save  in  a  very  few 
instances,  such  literature  was  produced  by  men  whose 
thought  was  fixed,  not  upon  posterity  or  the  things 
which  are  permanent  in  life,  but  upon  their  own 
public  and  the  facts  and  problems  of  the  hour.  To 
the  making  of  such  literature  therefore  has  always 
gone  a  large  amount  of  purely  local  and  temporary 
matter.  But  it  is  the  peculiar  mark  of  the  books 
which  are  endowed  with  the  secret  of  continuous  life 
that  in  them  even  the  local  and  temporary  is  so 
handled,  and  with  such  insight,  and  grasp,  and  power, 
that  it  is  made  to  partake  of  the  significance  of 
the  universal  and  permanent.  It  has  been  said  of 
Herodotus  that  he  had  the  knack  of  taking  interest  in 


CEITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATUEE    415 

the  things  which  have  continued  to  interest  people  for 
twenty-three  hundred  years.  This  statement  is  true 
not  only  of  the  Father  of  History  ;  it  is  incontest- 
ably  true  of  all  those  who  have  written  books  which 
live  ;  for  it  is  just  because  their  books  deal  with  un- 
rivalled insight,  grasp  and  power,  with  the  things 
which  are  universally  and  permanently  interesting — 
with  the  experiences,  motives,  and  passions,  the 
struggles,  joys  and  sorrows,  which  belong  to  the 
common  foundations  of  human  life,  everywhere  and  at 
all  time — that  "  age  cannot  wither  "  them  "  nor  custom 
stale  "  their  ''  infinite  variety."  What  is  merely  acci- 
dental in  a  great  book — what  appertains  only  to  the 
trappings  of  life,  to  the  circumstances  and  conditions 
of  the  age  and  society  out  of  which  it  came — will 
interest  us  in  it  just  as  such  things  interest  us  in 
any  other  piece  of  literature.  But  when  we  penetrate 
beneath  these  we  come  upon  the  explanation  of  its 
enduring  vitality  in  its  wonderful  adaptation  to  all  that 
is  most  essential  and  stable  in  life  at  large.  To  measure 
the  distance  in  everything  but  the  essential  and  stable 
which  separates  us  to-day  from  the  Book  of  Job^  the 
Divine  Comedy,  Paradise  Lost,  the  Homeric  poems,  the 
tragedies  of  Shakespeare,  is  to  gain  some  sense  at  least 
of  what  it  is  in  the  world's  greatest  literature  which 
has  lifted  it  above  the  reach  of  the  destroying  influences 
of  time. 

In  the  light  of  this  somewhat  protracted  discussion 
of  the  problem  of  survival  in  literature,  we  ought  to  be 
able  to  understand  the  full  meaning  of  the  statement 
that  there  is  a  considerable  amount  of  literature  which 
we  may  regard  as  lying  outside  the  region  of  personal 
opinion,  and  the  greatness  of  which  has  been  proved. 


4i6  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

To  this  statement  we  will  now  return  since,  as  will 
doubtless  have  been  anticipated,  it  provides  us  with  a 
certain  sure  footing  amid  all  questions  and  contro- 
versies concerning  literary  valuation. 

The  principal  test  of  greatness  in  literature — that 
of  its  lasting  power — is  manifestly  one  which 

tSnlf^*'  ^^  ^^^^  ^^  ^^^^  ^^  ^^^^  ^°  apply.  But  mean- 
contem-  while,  what  of  the  literature  which  has  not 
LiSSure.  y^^  been  so  tested  ?  We  cannot  venture  to 
forecast  the  result  of  the  sifting  processes  of 
the  centuries,  nor  can  we  say  with  any  degree  of 
certitude  how  this  or  that  now  famous  work  may 
look  when,  like  Shakespeare's  plays,  it  has  stood  the 
wear  and  tear  of  three  hundred  years.  Only  as  we 
are  able  to  step  away  from  a  piece  of  literature,  and 
to  see  it  in  perspective,  is  it  in  the  vast  majority  of 
cases  possible  to  distinguish  between  essential  interest 
and  accidental  interest,  between  the  success  which  is 
merely  timely  and  that  which  has  in  it  the  promise  of 
endurance.  It  is  difficult  for  us  to  conceive  that  what 
appeals  intensely  to  us  may  not  perhaps  outlast  our 
generation,  for  that  which  at  the  moment  seems  most 
vital  will  hardly  fail  to  assume  in  our  minds  the 
characteristics  of  universality  and  permanence.  In 
respect  then  of  the  literature  which  still  lies  near  to  us, 
and  in  respect  especially  of  contemporary  literature, 
we  are  necessarily  left  to  ourselves  and  to  the  guidance, 
such  as  it  is,  offered  by  our  critics.  Yet  let  it  be  said 
emphatically  that  such  literature — the  literature  which 
grows  out  of  the  life  that  we  ourselves  live,  is  fed  by 
all  the  influences  which  belong  to  our  surroundings, 
and  deals  with  the  facts  and  problems  which  directly 
concern  us  as  creatures  of  our  own  place  and  time — 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    417 

must  inevitably  have  an  interest  for  us  quite  different 
from  that  possessed  by  even  the  greatest  literature  of 
the  past,  and  in  many  ways  much  deeper  and  keener 
than  this.  The  advice  that  when  a  new  book  is 
published  we  ought  to  read  an  old  one,  is  therefore 
not  advice  that  any  of  us  need  take  seriously.  No 
man  can  properly  be  said  to  belong  to  his  own 
generation  who  is  not  eager  to  keep  abreast  of  its 
literature.  Even  the  books  which,  as  we  may  feel 
assured,  are  of  merely  ephemeral  significance,  may 
thus  often  have  a  real  claim  upon  our  attention. 
None  the  less,  entirely  justified  as  is  our  interest  in  all 
kinds  of  contemporary  literature,  since  that  literature 
is  enormous  in  quantity  and  of  varying  degrees  of 
excellence,  and  since  moreover  every  reader  should 
regard  it  as  part  of  his  duty  to  encourage  what  is  good 
and  discourage  what  is  bad,  it  is  of  fundamental 
importance  that  we  should  read  "  the  new  works  of 
new  days  "  with  a  constant  sense  of  relative  values, 
and  a  desire  always  to  discriminate  so  far  as  possible 
between  what  is  genuine  and  what  is  factitious. 

And  here,  as  I  believe,  a  knowledge  of  the  "  classics  " 
may  be  of  practical  help  to  us.      If  in  them  ^^ 
we    have    recognised    examples    of    literary  "Classics" 
greatness  in  various  forms,  and  if  therefore  ^andards 
they  admittedly  possess  a  certain  rank  and  of  com- 
authority,  we  ought  to  be  able  to  use  them  ^^^^°°' 
as  standards  of  comparison.      By  this  I  do  not  in  the 
least  mean  that  we  should  seek  to  employ  them  in  the 
narrow,    pedantic,    and   inflexible  way   in    which   the 
Greek    and     Latin    classics    were    employed    by    the 
academic   critics   of   the   seventeenth   and   eighteenth 
centuries.     Nor  do  I  propose  that  we  should  try  to 
2  p 


4i8  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

make  systems  and  rules  out  of  them.  Above  all,  I  do 
not  suggest  that  we  should  invoke  them  to  check 
originality,  hamper  experiment,  or  define  in  advance 
the  lines  which  the  literature  of  our  own  time  should  or 
should  not  follow.  To  imply  that  even  the  greatest 
things  of  the  past  are  to  be  set  apart  as  models  for  the 
present  and  the  future  would  be  against  the  whole 
drift  and  spirit  of  my  argument  throughout  this 
chapter.  The  literature  which  really  counts,  as  I 
have  more  than  once  insisted,  is  the  literature  which  is 
made,  not  out  of  other  literature,  but  out  of  life  ;  and 
for  a  living  literature  no  models  will  suffice.  If,  there- 
fore, on  the  one  hand,  we  must  never  allow  ourselves 
to  be  misled  into  exaggerated  estimates  of  contemporary 
productions  by  the  noisy  approbation  of  the  general 
public  or  the  injudicious  praise  of  reckless  reviewers, 
on  the  other  hand  we  must  not  fall  into  the  opposite 
error  of  supposing  that  all  the  great  work  in  literature 
has  been  done,  that  there  can  be  no  new  prophet 
in  our  own  generation  and  country,  and  that  the 
acknowledged  masterpieces  of  bye-gone  ages  spell 
finality.  What  I  mean,  and  all  that  I  mean,  by 
saying  that  we  can  use  these  acknowledged  master- 
pieces as  standards  of  comparison,  is  this  :  as  their 
qualities  are  not  matters  of  speculation,  but,  as  we 
believe,  of  fact — as  their  greatness  has  been  proved — 
we  can  by  analysis  of  them  discover  something  at 
least  of  what  constitutes  essential  greatness,  power, 
and  beauty  in  literature,  and  can  utilise  the  knowledge 
so  gained  in  a  practical  way  in  our  examination  of 
the  merits  and  defects  of  other  pieces  of  literature 
belonging  to  the  same  general  class.  We  are  thus 
brought  back  to  a  point  already  made — that  a  thorough 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE     419 

and  comprehensive  acquaintance  with  the  world's 
greatest  work  in  poetry,  the  drama,  and  fiction  may 
safely  be  postulated  as  indispensable  for  any  one  who 
would  undertake  to  pass  judgment  upon,  or,  as  we 
may  now  add,  would  seek  to  appreciate  the  real 
qualities  of,  any  poem,  or  play,  or  novel.  In  this 
work  of  comparison  we  shall  seldom,  in  all  probability, 
be  able  to  proceed  by  any  formal  methods,  nor  is  it 
necessary  that  we  should  try  to  do  so.  Our  interest 
is  in  the  spirit,  and  not  in  the  letter ;  and  it  is  enough 
for  us  to  know  that  familiarity  with  great  and  good 
literature  will  quicken  in  us  an  instinctive  feeling  for 
what  is  great  and  good,  wherever  we  may  meet  with 
it,  and  in  whatever  new  forms  it  may  be  embodied. 
Matthew  Arnold's  theory  of  the  use  of  "  touchstones  " 
of  poetry — of  selected  lines  and  passages  by  which 
to  try  "the  presence  or  absence  of  high  poetic  quality, 
and  also  the  degree  of  that  quality,  in  all  other  poetry 
which  we  may  place  beside  them  "  ^ — will  probably 
seem  to  most  readers,  as  it  seems  to  me,  rather 
fantastic  and  unconvincing.  But  the  underlying  idea  is 
incontestably  sound  and  fruitful.  It  is  not  by  abstract 
theorisings  about  power  and  beauty,  about  standards 
and  tests,  but  by  simply  living  as  much  as  possible, 
and  as  sympathetically  as  possible,  with  the  best  that 
the  world's  literature  has  to  give  us,  that  our  taste 
will  be  attuned  to  excellence,  and  our  judgment 
trained  for  its  appreciation. 

Difficult  as  this  whole  question  of  the  valuation  of 
literature  admittedly  is,  and  superficial  as  our  present 
treatment  of  it  has  necessarily  been,  it  may  still  be 
hoped  that  we  may  now  close  upon  certain  positive 

^  The  Study  of  Poetry ^  in  Essays  in  Cf-iticisniy  Second  Series. 


420  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

results.  An  admirable  French  exponent  of  the 
doctrine  of  discipline  in  art,  M.  Nisard,  in  the  spirit 
of  extreme  revulsion  from  the  anarchy  threatened  by 
the  spread  of  mere  impressionism,  once  asserted  that 
the  true  purpose  of  criticism  is  to  free  literature  from 
the  tyranny  of  the  notion  that  there  is  no  disputing 
about  tastes,.  There  is  not  the  slightest  ground  for 
hope  that  this  purpose  will  ever  be  completely  achieved. 
Criticism  cannot  be  reduced  to  a  science ;  it  cannot 
be  made  into  "  a  sort  of  botany  applied  to  the  works 
of  man."  We  talk,  with  Arnold,  about  "seeing  the 
thing  as  it  really  is."  But  this  is  only  a  fashion  of 
speech.  To  see  the  thing  as  it  really  is,  is  impossible  ; 
for  we  can  see  it  only  in  our  own  minds  ;  and  since 
our  minds  are  "  steeped  and  infused  in  the  humours 
of  the  affections,"  ^  we  can  see  it  only  through  the 
atmosphere  of  our  own  temperaments  and  characters. 
We  can  clear  away  the  mists  of  prejudice  ;  we  can 
make  due  allowance  for  predisposition ;  we  can 
do  a  great  deal  to  correct  bias.  But  that  is  all. 
Literature  grows  out  of  personality,  and  addresses 
itself  to  personality.  It  deals  with  many  subjects  in 
many  forms.  It  is  of  its  very  essence  that  it  should 
enlist  sympathy,  stir  feeling,  arouse  passion.  Thus  it 
appeals  to  variable  elements,  and  variation  must  in- 
evitably characterise  our  response  to  it.  From  this 
conclusion  there  is  no  escape.  We  cannot  eliminate 
the  individual  factor  from  criticism,  and  the  differences 
which  arise  from  the  play  of  many  minds  upon  the 
same  phenomena  must  be  accepted  as  matters  of 
course.  I  see  no  reason  to  regret  this ;  rather  am  I 
glad  that  a  colourless  uniformity  in  literary  apprecia- 

^  Baccn,  Advancemeni  of  Learning,  I.  i.  iii. 


CRITICISM  AND  VALUATION  OF  LITERATURE    421 

tion  is  never  likely  to  be  reached.  Yet  though  in  the 
last  analysis  we  are  thus  thrown  back  upon  our  own 
taste  and  judgment,  the  great  fact  remains  that  to  a 
large  extent,  I  would  venture  to  say  to  an  extent 
quite  incalculable,  taste  may  be  trained  and  judgment 
controlled,  disciplined,  and  directed.  Thus  in  our  own 
relations  with  the  problem  of  literary  valuation,  we 
have,  after  all,  a  principle  of  practice  to  start  with, 
and  to  this  we  shall  certainly  look  for  illumination 
and  guidance,  if  we  desire  to  make  our  study  of 
literature  of  the  utmost  possible  service  to  us  as  a 
means  both  of  enjoyment  and  of  life. 


APPENDIX 
I 

ON    PERSONALITY    IN    LITERATURE 
(See  pp.   16-19,  51-53) 

IN  a  very  valuable  review  of  this  book  in  the 
Manchester  Guardian  (for  which  I  believe  I  am 
indebted  to  one  of  the  foremost  of  our  living 
English  scholars),  it  was  suggested  that  in  emphasis- 
ing the  personal  element  as  the  foundation  principle 
in  literature  I  had  apparently  neglected  the  fact  that 
there  are  considerable  bodies  of  literature  in  which  the 
personal  element  does  not  exist.  The  matter  is  one 
which  perhaps  deserves  a  little  further  attention. 

Every  student  of  literary  evolution  is  of  course 
aware  that  very  early  literature,  even  when  it  assumes 
what  seems  to  be  a  lyrical  form,  is  not  in  our  sense 
of  the  term  a  literature  of  self-expression.  This  is 
because  the  emergence  of  the  individual  unit  from  the 
mass  is  a  relatively  late  result  of  advancing  social  life. 
The  common  view,  set  forth  by  Victor  Hugo 
nmnai"^  with  characteristic  energy  in  his  famous  pre- 
Eiement  face  to  Cromwell^  that  the  "  primitive  "  ages 
Sterature,  ^^  ^^^  world  were  ages  of  "  colossal  "  indi- 
vidualism, is  grotesquely  unhistorical.  They 
were,  on  the  contrary,  ages  in   which  group-life  and 


ON  PEKSONALITY  IN  LITEEATURE  423 

group-consciousness  were  in  the  ascendant  ;  while  it 
is  only  "  in  the  movement  of  civilisation — a  move- 
ment by  no  means  regular,  but  often  spasmodic, 
back  and  forward,  forward  and  back,  though  on  the 
whole  forward  " — that  "  personal  character  comes  to 
stand  out  more  and  more  distinctly  from  the  general 
crowd."  ^  The  importance  of  these  considerations  in 
the  study  of  early  literatures  is  seldom  recognised  by 
general  readers.  One  of  the  most  fertile  sources  of 
error  in  our  common  interpretation,  or  rather  misinter- 
pretation, of  the  Old  Testament,  is  our  habit  of  reading 
back  into  it  ideas  derived  from  our  modern  highly- 
developed  individualism  and  entirely  out  of  keeping 
with  its  own  real  spirit  and  bearings.  The  centre  of 
interest  in  most  surviving  Hebrew  literature  is,  in  fact, 
not  the  individual  but  the  family  or  the  community, 
and  no  true  understanding  of  that  literature  is  possible 
unless  this  is  kept  always  in  mind.  I  have  already 
noted  that  the  greater  part  of  Hebrew  lyrical  poetry 
is  communal  and  not  personal  in  character  (pp.  127, 
128,  131).  The  entire  Hebrew  attitude  towards  life, 
Hebrew  patriarchal  notions  of  family  continuity  as 
against  personal  immortality,  and  early  Hebrew  moral 
theories  concerning  corporate  and  hereditary  responsi- 
bility and  vicarious  suffering,^  were  also  based  upon 
the  conception  of  the  community  as  the  centre  of  life 
and  the  point  of  departure.  In  other  early  literatures, 
also,  the  origin  of  the  lyric  must  be  sought  in  efforts 
to  express  the  emotion  of  the  group,  not  that  of  the 

1  Posnett,  Comparative  Literature^  pp.  70,  71. 

2  As  summed  up,  for  instance,  in  the  famous  proverb  against  which  the 
more  individualistic  later  prophets  protested,  *' the  fathers  have  eaten  sour 
grapes,  and  the  children's  teeth  are  set  on  edge." 


424  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

individual  singer.  "  In  the  rude  beginnings  of  litera- 
ture among  loosely  federated  clans,  we  find,"  as  Mr 
Posnett  says,  "the  communal  '  lyric '  reflecting  the 
corporate  organism  and  ideas  of  contemporary  life. 
Even  in  Pindar,  the  communal,  as  opposed  to  the 
individual  characteristics  of  the  '  lyric/  are  still  visible, 
the  victor  of  the  games  being  often  merely  a  centre 
round  which  the  achievements  of  his  clan  or  city  are 
grouped."  ^  The  very  conception  of  personal  author- 
ship arose  only  with  the  change  from  communal  to 
personal  life,  and  so  little  indeed,  during  the  earlier 
stages  of  literary  evolution,  was  the  integrity  of  any 
composition  regarded,  that  every  new  generation  felt 
free  to  deal  with  it  as  it  chose.  Hence  a  piece  of 
early  literature  may  best  be  likened  to  a  mediaeval 
church,  which  grew  gradually  into  the  shape  in  which 
we  know  it  under  a  succession  of  master-builders,  and 
now  bears  little  distinctive  trace  of  any  one  mind.^ 
In  later  times  a  backward  movement  in  civilisation 
has  occasionally  brought  about  a  repression  of  in- 
dividuality, with  the  result  that  personality  has  again 
almost  disappeared  from  literature.  I  have  lately  had 
reason  to  lay  stress  on  this  in  dealing  with  the  effect 
Medisevai  °^  mediaeval  conditions  on  literature  and 
imperson-  art.  Having  shown  how  all  these  conditions 
^'  were    "  fatal    to     the     free    development    of 

individuality,"  I  have  said  ; — "  One  curious  result  which 

1  Op.  cit.^  p.  40. 

^  Note,  for  example,  the  obvious  tamperings  with  the  text  of  Ecdesi- 
astes  and  The  Book  of  Job  ;  also  the  different  "  layers  "  in  the  Iliad  (for 
which  see  Leafs  Companion  to  the  Iliad).  The  objectivity  of  most  early 
narrative  poetry,  in  part  at  least  the  poetry  of  composite  authorship,  is 
very  marked  ;  as  in  the  Homeric  poems  (with  which  compare  the  highly 
personal  Atneid),  Beowulf,  and  the  Nibelungenlied. 


ON  PERSONALITY  IN  LITERATURE  425 

followed  in  the  domain  of  literature  and  art  is  worth 
attention — the  almost  complete  want  of  individuality 
in  the  works  produced,  the  absence  of  the  distinctively- 
personal  note.  Everywhere  we  meet  with  what 
Brunetiere  calls  the  spirit  of  anonymity.  There  is 
nothing  in  poem  or  painting  to  reveal  the  character  of 
the  poet  or  artist  behind  it.  One  roman  is  just  like 
another  roman  \  one  mystery-play  just  like  another 
mystery-play  ;  one  trouvere  or  minnesinger  just  like 
another  trouvere  or  minnesinger ;  one  Madonna  or 
Crucifixion  just  like  another  Madonna  or  Crucifixion. 
Individual  genius  had  been  swamped  by  tradition  and 
convention."  1 

The  points  upon  which  I  have  above  touched  were 
neither  forgotten  nor  intentionally  ignored  by  me 
when  I  wrote  the  pages  in  the  text  to  which  this  note 
refers.  I  passed  them  over  simply  because  I  did  not 
wish  to  burden  my  exposition  with  what  might  seem 
to  most  of  my  readers  somewhat  extraneous  matter. 
Their  bearings  upon  the  general  principles  of  literary 
interpretation  will,  I  think,  be  fairly  obvious.  Where 
the  purely  individual  element  does  not  exist  in 
literature  it  will  be  idle  of  course  to  look  for  it ;  and 
it  would  therefore  be  correct  to  say  that  in  our  study 
of  an  early  lyric  poem  or  lay,  or  of  a  mediaeval 
romance  or  miracle-play,  we  cannot  be  concerned 
about  the  factor  of  individuality,  as  individuality  is 
understood  to-day.  Yet  the  lyric,  lay,  romance,  or 
miracle-play,  as  the  case  may  be,  is  still  the  product 
of  human  energy  seeking  the  channels  of  literary 
form ;  it  still  stands  for  human  thought  and 
feeling ;   and  behind  it  necessarily  lies,  if  not  the  power 

^  The  Story  of  the  Renaissance^  pp.  5,  6. 


426  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

of  the  individual  unit,  at  any  rate,  that  of  what  we 
may  call  generalised  or  communal  personality. 
Tlie  study  jj^  ^^^^  circumstances,  then,  it  is  with  general- 
Communal  ised  or  communal  personality  that  we  have  to 
anty*'^  get  into  touch.  What  I  have  said  on  pp.  2 1 
and  2  2  of  the  text  may  thus,  with  slight 
change  of  wording,  be  applied  to  the  study  of  the  litera- 
ture which  expresses  group-consciousness  rather  than 
the  mind  of  the  individual  maker.  That  in  analysing 
such  group-consciousness  we  are  in  fact  inquiring 
into  the  significance  of  literature  as  a  revelation 
of  race  and  age  (see  pp.  39-41)  will  be  equally 
apparent.  Moreover,  as  "  the  progressive  deepening 
and  widening  of  personality "  is,  as  Mr  Posnett 
rightly  insists,  the  central  fact  in  the  evolution  of 
literature,  the  development  of  personality  is  manifestly 
a  problem  of  capital  importance  in  the  study  of  litera- 
ture on  the  historical  side.^ 


II 

ON    THE    TREATMENT    OF    NATURE    IN    POETRY 

On  p.  165  I  have  suggested  this  as  a  special  topic 
for  study.  It  is  one  so  rich  in  interest  that  a  little 
space  may  fittingly  be  devoted  to  its  further 
consideration. 

Clearly,    the    first  test    to    be    applied    is   that   of 

^  When  once  attention  had  been  directed  to  the  existence  of  this 
problem,  we  shall  find  it  cropping  up  in  all  sorts  of  unexpected  places, 
and  even  in  connection  with  quite  recent  literature.  To  give  one 
example  :  the  decline  of  the  drama  and  the  rise  of  the  modern  novel  are 
in  part  results  of  growing  individualism,  while  such  growing  individualism 
is  again  one  factor  in  the  evolution  of  prose  fiction  itself. 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  NATURE  IN  POETRY    427 

poetic  truth.  With  this  I  have  already  dealt  at  some 
length  (pp.  104-107),  and  have  now  only  to  insist 
upon  the  fundamental  difference  between  the  faithful 
and  the  unfaithful  or  conventional  treatment  of  natural 
facts.  Even  to  the  uncritical  reader  the  contrast  is 
apparent  between  the  first-hand  knowledge  and  the 
specific  accuracy  of  Wordsworth,  or  Keats,  or 
Tennyson,  each  of  whom  wrote  (in  Wordsworth's  own 
phrase)  with  his  eye  "  steadily  fixed  upon  his  object," 
and  the  bookishness,  the  vague  generalised  ^j^ 
statements,  and  the  neglect  of  detail,  which  Question 
characterised  Pope  and  his  school.  The  ®^^i^®^*y- 
occasional  carelessness  and  conventionalism  of  Milton 
have  already  been  noted.  Elsewhere  we  may  find 
illustrations  without  number  of  the  difference  in 
question.  Thus  the  May  morning  and  the  garden 
landscape,  which  were  partly  conventional  even  with 
Chaucer,  are  entirely  so  with  his  fifteenth  century 
imitators  ;  while  on  the  other  hand,  in  the  writings 
of  some  of  their  Scottish  contemporaries  (in  Gavin 
Douglas's  prologues  to  his  translation  of  the  ^neidy 
for  instance),  there  is  a  marked  tendency  to  break 
away  from  mere  literary  formulas  and  to  attempt 
the  realistic  reproduction  of  things  actually  seen. 
In  the  pastoral  poetry  which  from  the  time  of  the 
Renaissance  onward  was  written  on  classic  models, 
the  treatment  of  nature  is  almost  wholly  imitative 
and  conventional. 

This  question  of  fidelity  settled,  we  have  next  to 
consider    the     poet's  emotional    response  to    ^a,vsof 
nature,  and,  more   broadly,  the    manner    in    Using 
which,  and  the  purposes  for  which,  nature  is   ^**^®- 
employed  by  him.      It  is    evident  that  while    poetic 


428  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

truth  is  a  characteristic  which  Wordsworth,  Keats  and 

Tennyson  have  in  common,  the  emotional  response  of 

each  of  these  poets  is  strikingly  different  from  that  of 

either  of  the  other  two.      It  is  equally  evident  that 

nature  is  used  in  one  way,  let  us  say,  in  John  Dyer's 

Grongar  Hill,  in  another  way  in  Scott's  Majinion,  and 

in  another  again  in  Arnold's  Dover  Beach.     So  much 

is  clear.      Yet,  as  this  is  a  matter  in  regard  to  which 

some   definite   guidance    may    be   useful,    I  will  here 

indicate  a  few  of  the  most  important  ways  in  which 

poets    may    deal    with    nature ;     though   it   must   be 

understood    that    the    subject    is    too    large    for    full 

treatment  within  a  small  space  and  too  complex  to 

admit  of  exact  classification.     What  follows  is  based 

on     Principal     Shairp's     suggestive    chapter    on    the 

subject  in  his  Poetic  Interpretation  of  Nature.      I  do 

not,   however,  adopt    his    analysis   in   all   particulars, 

and    I    have    added    a    good    deal   to   it    in   various 

places. 

To  begin  at  the  beginning,  we  may  find  in  poetry 

the    expression,    in    Mr    Shairp's    words,   of 
The  Poetry  ,,  . ,     ,     ^  .       ,  ^  ^  n      . . 

of  Simple       that      simple,      spontaneous,      unreflectmg 

DeUghtin   pleasure    which    all     unsophisticated    beings 

feel    in    free    open-air    life."       We    get    this 

"  fresh    child-like    delight    in    nature "    very   often    in 

Chaucer  (as  we  may  see  by  going  no  farther  than  the 

opening  of  the  Prologue  to  the  Canterbury  Tales).,  and 

often,  too,  in  snatches,  in  our  old  ballads  ;  as  in  the 

charming  lines  : — 

"  When  shaws  beene  sheene,  and  shradds  full  fayre. 
And  leaves  both  large  and  longe, 
Itt  is  merrye  walking  in  the  fayre  forrest 
To  heare  the  small  birdes  songe." 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  NATURE  IN  POETRY    429 

There  is  again  the  same  note  of  simple  pleasure, 
uncomplicated  by  intellectual  or  moral  considerations, 
in  the  following  passage  which  I  translate  from 
Walther  von  der  Vogelweide,  the  most  famous  of  the 
minnesingers  : — 

''When  the  summer  was  come,  and  the  flowers 
sprang  up  wonderfully  through  the  grass,  and  the 
birds  were  singing,  then  came  I  passing  over  a  long 
meadow,  where  a  clear  well  gushed  forth  ;  through  a 
wood  it  ran,  where  the  nightingale  sang." 

In  the  very  nature  of  things,  such  expressions  of 
unreflecting  pleasure  must  be  sought  chiefly  among 
the  older  poets,  for  in  our  modern  enjoyment  of  the 
open  air  and  the  freedom  of  the  fields,  even  though 
the  occasion  be  a  picnic  expedition,  intellectual  and 
moral  elements  are  almost  certain  to  intrude.  Yet 
now  and  then,  even  in  our  analytical  and  sophisticated 
age,  the  poet  will  abandon  himself  whole-heartedly 
and  unspeculatively  to  the  mood  of  the  moment,  and 
then  we  catch  again,  though  with  unmistakable  sugges- 
tions of  deeper  passion,  the  simple  rapture  of  earlier 
times.  Keats's  sonnet,  To  One  who  has  been  long  in 
City  pent,  and  Lowell's  glorious  Prelude  to  the  first 
part  of  The  Vision  of  Sir  Launfal^  may  be  cited  as 
illustrations. 

Superficially  somewhat  akin  to  this  simple  enjoy- 
ment   of    nature,    though     essentially    quite 
different  from  it,  is  that  love  of  nature  which  of  Nature^ 
we  may  best  describe  perhaps  by  the  epithet  Sensuous 
sensuous.     Mr  Shairp  has  left  this  altogether 
out  of  his  survey — a  serious  omission,  since  poetry  is 
full,  as  we  should  expect,  of  the  artist's  feeling  for  the 
material  beauty  of  nature  considered  as  material  beauty 


430  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

only.  In  describing  the  development  of  his  own  rela- 
tions with  nature,  Wordsworth  has  shown  how,  after 
leaving  behind  him  the  "  coarser  pleasures "  of  his 
"  boyish  days,"  he  passed  into  a  stage  in  which 

"  The  sounding  cataract 
Haunted  me  like  a  passion  ;  the  tall  rock, 
The  mountain  and  the  deep  and  gloomy  wood, 
Their  colours  and  their  forms  were  then  to  me 
An  appetite — a  feeling  and  a  love 
That  had  no  need  of  a  remoter  charm 
By  thought  supplied,  nor  any  interest 
Unborrowed  from  the  eye."  ^ 

These  lines  exactly  describe  the  pure  artist's  sensuous 
love  of  natural  beauty — a  love  which  has  no  need  of 
"  any  interest  unborrowed  from  the  eye."  In  Words- 
worth himself  we  do  not  find  many  expressions  of  this 
love,  because,  as  he  goes  on  to  tell  us,  even  this  stage 
was  in  turn  presently  outgrown.  But  we  find  it  in 
many  modern  poets ;  notably,  for  example,  in  Keats. 
As  I  have  elsewhere  said  : — "  Keats  did  not  love 
nature  as  Wordsworth  and  Shelley  loved  it.  There 
was  nothing  spiritual  or  mystical  in  his  feeling  for  it ; 
he  had  little  sense  of  those  unseen  realities  which 
speak  to  the  contemplative  soul  out  of  the  external 
show  of  things.  His  was  a  sensuous  love  of  natural 
beauty  just  for  its  own  sake — the  beauty  of  field  and 
forest,  of  flower,  and  sky,  and  sea  ;  and  in  the  inter- 
pretation of  this  beauty,  in  this  simple  and  direct 
passion  for  nature  ...  no  English  poet  takes  a 
higher  place  than  Keats."  ^     Wordsworth's  reproof  of 

1  Lines  Written  above  Tintern  Abbey,  Compare,  for  a  fuller  account 
of  the  transformation  of  the  poet's  feeling  for  nature,  The  Prelude^  Books 
I,  and  II. 

2  Keats  and  his  Poetry  (iu  the  Poetry  and  Life  series),  p.  35. 


ON  THE  TBEATMENT  OF  NATURE  IN  POETRY    431 

Peter  Bell  might  indeed  have  been  addressed  to 
Keats,  for  of  him  it  was  in  fact  perfectly  true 
that 

"A  primrose  by  a  river's  brim 

A  yellow  primrose  was  to  him, 

And  it  was  nothing  more." 


But  then  Keats's  reply  would  have  been — why  should 

it  be  anything  more?      Why  should  we  probe  it  for 

moral  or  spiritual  meanings  ?      Is  not  its  simple  beauty 

enough  ? 

We  may  next  note,  though  Mr  Shairp  has  not  done 

so,  how   nature   may  be   used   merely   as   a 

source  of  imagery  and  illustration.     Metaphors  pnoricai 

and  similes  from  nature  are  common  in  all  ^seof 

Nature, 
poetry  ;  at  times,  poets  have  seen  and  handled 

nature  only  in  the  metaphorical  way.     Thus  it  has  been 

pointed  out  that  though  the  Hebrew  poets  generally 

show  great  fidelity  in  their  treatment  of  nature,  they 

nowhere   suggest   any   real    love  of  nature   as   such : 

nature   being   for   them,    as    Canon   Cheyne    puts    it, 

mainly  "  a  magazine  of  symbols  "  bearing  upon  human 

life.      Homer's  similes  from  nature  are  justly  famous, 

and  the  fact  that  while  they  are  all  manifestly  taken 

at  first   hand   from  the   things  described,   they   have 

often  been  elaborately  imitated  by  modern  poets  (as 

by  Arnold  in    Sohrab  and  Rustuni)  brings   us   back 

again  to  the  difference  between  the  genuine,  and  the 

traditional  and  bookish  treatment  of  nature  on  which  I 

have  already  insisted.      It  is  of  course  important  under 

this  head  to  trace  all  metaphors  and  similes  to  their 

sources,  whether  in  nature  or  in  other  literature,  and 

to   inquire  both    into   their   accuracy    and   into   their 


432  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

propriety.^  Interesting  details  will  often  come  to 
light.  It  is,  for  example,  a  point  worthy  of  attention 
that,  though  many  of  Virgil's  similes  are  fashioned 
directly  upon  Homer's,  the  poet's  own  intimate  know- 
ledge of  nature  is  often  revealed  ;  as  in  the  passage  in 
which  (evidently  recalling  what  he  had  seen  on  his 
father's  farm  when  a  boy)  he  likens  the  labours  of  the 
men  of  Carthage  to  those  of  bees  in  their  hive.^ 

Another  way  in  which  nature  is  often  employed  in 
Nature  as  P^^^^Y  ^^  ^^  ^  background  or  setting  to  human 
Back-  emotion  or  action.      This  was  a  common  way 

^^^^  •  with  those  poets  of  the  eighteenth  century 
in  whom  the  reviving  love  of  nature  was  conspicuous, 
but  who  still  fixed  their  attention  chiefly  on  man. 
Thus,  for  instance,  Gray  uses  landscape  in  the  Elegy 
and  Goldsmith  in  The  Deserted  Village.  This,  too,  is 
the  way  in  which  nature  has  been  employed  by  narra- 
tive poets  from  Homer  down  to  our  own  times.  That 
in  the  evolution  of  narrative  poetry  the  tendency  has 
been  towards  the  greater  and  greater  elaboration  of 
the  landscape-setting — that,  in  other  words,  description 
has  become  increasingly  important  and  has  encroached 
more  and  more  upon  story — is  a  fact  the  significance 
of  which  no  reader  is  likely  to  overlook.  Even  in  the 
Iliad,  as  Mr  Shairp  notes,  "  there  is  little  or  no  de- 

^The  question  of  propriety,  or  *'  keeping,"  is  an  important  one.  Note 
that  Arnold,  while  adopting  Homer  as  his  model,  "  took  a  great  deal  of 
trouble  to  orientalise "  his  similes  in  Sohrab  and  Rusium  (see  his 
Letters,  i.  37),  and  that  Tennyson  was  equally  careful  to  make  all  the 
similes  in  Etioch  Arden  '*  such  as  might  have  been  used  by  simple  fisher- 
folk"  {Memoir^  by  Hallam  Tennyson,  ii.  8). 

2  ^^neidy  i.  430  ff.  Virgil's  father  was,  among  other  things,  a  bee- 
keeper. The  passage  has  often  been  imitated  ;  notably  by  Milton  in 
Paradise  Lost,  i.  768-75. 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  NATURE  IN  POETRY    433 

scription  of  the  scenes  in  which  the  battles  are  fought. 
The  features  are  hinted  at  by  single  epithets,  such  as 
many-fountained  Ida,  windy  Ilion,  deep-whirlpooled 
Scamander,  and  the  presence  of  nature  you  are  made 
to  feel  by  images  fetched  straight  from  every  element "  ; 
Homer,  as  the  writer  says  in  another  chapter,  being  "  so 
full  of  business  and  of  human  action,  that  he  cannot 
stay  for  description."  There  is  more  pure  description 
in  the  Odyssey  and  again  in  the  j^neid^  as  in  Hebrew 
literature  there  is  more  pure  description  in  Esther  than 
in  Ruth  ;  and  in  each  case  its  greater  prominence  is 
to  be  interpreted,  in  general  terms,  as  evidence  ot 
changing  methods  of  narrative  art.  But  it  is  only  in 
quite  modern  literature  that  its  immense  development 
has  become  a  persistent  feature.  In  any  case  in  which 
a  recent  poet  has  retold  an  ancient  story  we  shall  be 
certain  to  find  ready  to  hand  an  illustration  of  the 
striking  difference  between  the  na'fve  and  the  highly 
elaborated  manner  of  using  nature  for  narrative  pur- 
poses. In  speaking  of  the  famous  tale  of  Cupid  and 
Psyche  in  the  Metamorphoses  of  Apuleius,  Professor 
Mackail  remarks  : — "  The  version  by  which  it  is  best 
known  to  modern  readers,  that  in  the  Earthly  Paradise^ 
while,  after  the  modern  poet's  manner,  expanding  the 
descriptions  for  their  own  sake,  follows  Apuleius  other- 
wise with  exact  fidelity."  ^  Here,  as  will  be  seen,  the 
expansion  of  description  is  the  more  suggestive  because 
of  Morris's  general  adherence  in  all  other  particulars 
to  his  original.  There  is  a  similar  contrast  between 
Malory  and  Tennyson.  Malory  is  satisfied  with  the 
bare  statement  that  a  certain  knight  was  riding 
through  "  a  wood,"  and  then  passes  on  at  once  to  the 

^  Latin  Literature^  p.  243. 
2  E 


434  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

adventure  which  he  met  with  there.  Tennyson  pauses  to 
give  a  picture  of  the  wood.  Nor  is  this  all.  Another, 
and  more  important,  mark  of  the  general  change  which 
has  come  over  our  attitude  towards  nature  is  to  be  found 
in  the  fact  that  whereas  the  older  poets  habitually  used 
nature  merely  as  a  detached  background,  modern 
poets  tend  to  relate  such  background  to  the  human 
drama  which  is  played  out  against  it,  thus  exemplify- 
ing the  characteristic  subjectivity  of  modern  art.  This 
method  of  using  nature  is  a  conspicuous  feature  of 
Tennyson's  narrative  poetry.  The  whole  tragedy  of 
the  Idylls  of  the  King  is  worked  out  amid  scenes 
which  are  made  to  correspond  with  each  stage  of  the 
story  as  it  is  reached.  Thus  in  the  spring  setting  of 
Gareth  and  Lynette^  in  the  late  autumn  setting  of  The 
Last  Tournament,  and  so  on  throughout,  nature  is 
brought  in  to  sustain  by  sympathy  the  inner  signifi- 
cance of  the  human  drama.  But  such  human  drama 
may  be  thrown  into  relief  by  contrast  as  well  as  by 
sympathy ;  as  Tennyson  again  shows  us  in  Enoch 
Arden.  When  Enoch  lands,  and  the  sea  haze  gathers 
about  him,  turning  the  world  to  grey,  nature  responds 
to  his  own  rising  doubts,  and  becomes  prophetic  of 
his  approaching  doom  ;  but  when,  earlier  in  the  poem, 
Tennyson  paints  his  gorgeous  picture  of  the  tropical 
island  on  which  Enoch  has  been  cast,  it  is  clear  that 
he  does  so  to  intensify  by  contrast  with  the  exotic 
fertility  of  the  landscape  the  loneliness  and  despair  of 
the  "  shipwrecked  sailor  waiting  for  a  sail."  Arnold 
makes  a  very  fine  use  of  contrast  when  he  closes  the 
tragic  story  of  Sohrab  and  Riistum  with  the  descrip- 
tion of  the  river  Oxus,  flowing  out  through  the  dark- 
ness and  leaving  the  petty  hum  of  human  life  behind 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  NATURE  IN  POETRY    435 

it  in  its  majestic  passage  through  vast  solitudes  to  the 

Aral  Sea. 

Again,   natural    scenery   may   be  interesting   to    a 

poet  because  of  its  association   with  human 

The 
events.      Mr    Shairp    is    wrong    in    thinking  poetryof 

that  the  nature  poetry  of  historical  associa-  Associa- 
tion is  entirely  modern,  for  the  learned  and 
antiquarian  Virgil  puts  much  of  it  into  the  ^neid} 
But  it  is  unquestionably  a  kind  of  nature  poetry  which 
grows  with  the  growth  of  historical  studies  and  the 
historical  imagination,  and  it  must  therefore  be  re- 
garded as  the  product  of  modes  of  thinking  which 
are  possible  only  in  relatively  advanced  periods  of 
culture.  We  have  many  striking  examples  of  such 
poetry  in  Byron's  Childe  Harolds  Pilgrimage ;  but 
for  its  fullest  development  we  have  perhaps  to  turn  to 
Scott.  It  is  not  only,  as  Mr  Shairp  says,  that  Scott 
"  has  in  his  romantic  epics  described  the  actual  features 
of  the  fields  of  Flodden  and  of  Bannockburn  with  a 
minuteness  foreign  to  the  genius  of  the  ancients.  He 
has  done  this.  But  besides,  wherever  he  set  his  foot 
in  his  native  land — not  in  a  battle-field  alone,  but  by 
ruined  keep  or  solitary  moor,  or  rocky  seashore  or 
western  island — there  rose  before  his  eye  the  human 
forms  either  of  the  heroic  past  or  of  the  lowlier 
peasantry,  and  if  no  actual  record  hung  among  them, 
his  imagination  supplied  the  want,  and  peopled  the 
places  with  characters  appropriate,  which  shall  remain 
interwoven  with  the  very  features  of  the  scenes  while 
the  name  of  Scotland  lasts."  Landscape  with  Scott 
is,  in  fact,  habitually  seen  through  a  haze  of  historic 
or    romantic    associations.      He  himself   has  touched 

^  See,  in  particular,  the  discourse  of  Evander  in  Book  VIII. 


436  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

upon  this  characteristic  aspect  of  his  attitude  towards 
nature  in  the  introduction  to  the  third  canto  of 
Marmion. 

While  thus  recognising  the  poetry  of  historical 
association,  Mr  Shairp  has  failed  to  perceive  that 
there  is  a  poetry  of  personal  association  as  well. 
Indeed,  the  memories  which  colour  landscape  or 
otherwise  affect  our  relations  with  it,  will  on  analysis 
be  found  to  be  far  more  frequently  of  an  individual 
than  of  a  general  character.  Goldsmith's  Deserted 
Village,  Tennyson's  The  Daisy  and  (for  the  most  part) 
In  Menioriam,  Arnold's  Obermann  poems  and  Stanzas 
from  the  Grande  Chartreuse^  and  William  Watson's 
Wordsworth' s  Grave,  may  be  mentioned  as  examples, 
under  various  forms,  of  this  kind  of  poetry.  Under 
this  same  head  a  singularly  interesting  line  of  study 
of  both  kinds  of  association — general  and  personal — 
is  provided  in  Wordsworth's  three  Yarrow  poems — 
Yarrow  Unvisited,  Yarrow  Visited,  and  Yarrow 
Revisited.  Of  the  second  of  these  Prof  Veitch  says  : 
"  We  have  there  the  true  Yarrow,  the  truest  Yarrow  that 
ever  was  pictured  ;  real  yet  not  literal  ;  Yarrow  as  it  is 
for  the  spiritual  sense  made  keen,  quick,  sensitive  and 
deep  through  the  brooding  over  the  stories  of  the  years 
and  living  communion  with  the  heart  of  things."  ^ 

The  poetry  of  set  description,  in  which  the  poet 
The  Poetry  uii<^ertakes  to  do  with  his  pen  what  the  land- 
of  Set  De-  scape  painter  does  with  his  brush,  may  next 
scription.  ^^  referred  to.  Of  such  pictorial  poetry 
Thomson's  Seasons  is  a  familiar  example.  Its 
essential  feature  is,  that  while  human  life  is  often 
introduced  into  it  (as  figures  are  put  by  a  painter  into 

^  History  and  Poetry  of  the  Scottish  Border,  ii.  316. 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  NATURE  IN  POETRY    437 

his  landscape),  nature  is  the  first  consideration  and 
humanity  is  merely  subordinate.  Hence  the  difference 
between  this  poetry  and  the  poetry  in  which,  as  in  the 
Deserted  Village  and  the  Elegy  in  a  Country  Churchyard^ 
nature  is  used  as  a  background  to  human  life.  Of 
course,  passages  of  set  description  are  usually  found 
embodied  in  narrative  and  meditative  poetry,  where 
they  are  so  often  interwoven  with  other  elements  that 
it  is  impossible  to  say  just  where  pure  description  ends 
and  a  human  interest  in  nature  begins.  But  descrip- 
tive poetry  has  still  to  be  recognised  as  a  division 
of  the  poetry  of  nature.  Questions  of  method  and 
success,  of  course,  arise  here  ;  and  these,  pushed  home, 
will  be  found  to  entail  a  large  and  complex  aesthetic 
problem — the  problem,  namely,  how  far,  in  what  ways, 
and  under  what  conditions  the  poet  is  able  to  paint  at 
all.  At  this  point  the  student  will  be  well  advised  if  he 
turns  to  Lessing's  masterly  treatise,  Laokoon.  Lessing, 
indeed,  carried  his  condemnation  of  descriptive  poetry 
much  too  far,  and  neglected  considerations  which  the 
reader  of  modern  nature-poetry  will  readily  provide  for 
himself  At  the  same  time  Laokoon  remains  one  of  the 
foundation  books  on  this,  as  on  many  other  subjects 
connected  with  the  relations  of  poetry  and  painting. 

In  principle  at  least  descriptive  poetry  is  entirely 
objective.  We  have  now  to  note  some  of  the  uses 
to  which  nature  may  be  put  in  poetry  of  a  highly  sub- 
jective kind. 

Nature  may  be  set  in  sharp  contrast  with  the  life 
of  man,  to  the  end  that  the  pathetic  brevity  ^^^^ 
and   littleness   of  that   life  may  be  brought  contrasted 
out    and   emphasised.     Sometimes   the  con-  ^*^  ^^^' 
trast  is  between  that  totality  of  things  which  we  call 


438  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATtJRE 

nature — nature  conceived  as  the  vast  and  undying — 
and  the  tiny  span  of  our  personal  existence  or  of  the 
passing  generations,  which  come  and  go,  in  Homer's 
phrase,  like  leaves  on  the  trees  of  a  forest.  So  the 
voice  of  nature  speaks  to  iVrnold  : — 

Race  after  race,  man  after  man, 

Have  thought  that  my  secret  was  theirs, 

Have  dream'd  that  I  lived  but  for  them, 

That  they  were  my  glory  and  joy. 

They  are  dust,  they  are  changed,  they  are  gone  ! 

I  remain.^ 

Sometimes  the  contrast  is  between  some  pheno- 
menon or  aspect  of  nature  and  man's  life.  So  Catullus 
sings  that,  while  suns  set  to  rise,  for  us,  while  once  our 
brief  light  is  extinguished,  there  is  nothing  left  but 
eternal  night.^  So  Keats  contrasts  the  life  of  the 
individual  man  with  that  of  the  nightingale  figured  as  an 
"  immortal  bird  " ;  and  Tennyson  finds  a  message  in 
the  babbling  of  the  brook  : — 

For  men  may  come  and  men  may  go, 
But  I  go  on  for  ever. 

This  note,  as  we  might  expect,  is  often  heard  in 
elegiac  poetry.  It  is  heard,  for  instance,  in  Longfellow's 
The  Warden  : — 

Meanwhile,  without,  the  surly  canon  waited, 
The  sun  rose  bright  o'erhead. 
Nothing  in  nature's  aspect  intimated 
That  a  great  man  was  dead. 

It  is  a  recurrent  note  in  Arnold's  Thyrsis  and  in 
Watson's  Wordsworth's  Grave. 

1  The  Youth  of  Nature. 

2  Soles  occidere  et  redire  possunt. 
Nobis,  quum  simul  occidit  brevis  lux, 
Nox  est  perpetua  una  dorniienda. 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  NATURE  IN  POETRY    439 

Again,  special  stress  may  be  laid  on  the  indifference 
of  nature — an  indifference  which,  if  we  are  ^1131^. 
to  continue  to  apply  words  of  human  con-  difference 
notation  to  purely  natural  processes,  we  may  ®  *  ^®' 
even  describe  as  cruelty.  The  sense  that  nature, 
though  we  may  by  a  trick  of  the  imagination  personify 
it  as  the  Great  Mother,  has,  after  all,  no  care  for  man 
and  his  welfare — that,  in  fact,  there  is  nothing  in  the 
universe  about  us  save  impersonal,  eternal,  and  inexor- 
able law — weighed  heavy  on  the  thought  of  the  noble 
old  poet  Lucretius.  But  it  is  of  course  within  recent 
times  that,  under  the  ever  growing  influence  of  science, 
it  has  come  specially  to  the  front.  Among  our  great 
English  poets  Tennyson  in  particular  saw  nature  "  red 
in  tooth  and  claw  with  ravine,"  and  realised  to  the  full 
what  our  deepening  knowledge  of  cosmic  processes 
portended  on  the  spiritual  side.  The  vastness  of  the 
universe,  in  time  and  space,  as  revealed  by  science, 
appalled  him  : — 

"  Many  a  hearth  upon  our  dark  globe  sighs  after  many  a  vanish'd 
face, 
Many  a  planet  by  many  a  sun  may  roll  with  the  dust  of  a 
vanish'd  race."  ^ 

Another  Victorian  writer  of  immense  power  dwelt  on  the 
modern  scientific  conception  of  nature  as  a  further  argu- 
ment in  favour  of  his  all-comprehensive  pessimism  : — 

"  I  find  no  hint  throughout  the  Universe 
Of  good  or  ill,  of  blessing  or  of  curse  ; 
I  find  alone  Necessity  Supreme."  ^ 

In   this  way  we  are  brought  round  to  the  scientific 

^  Vastness. 

2  James  Thomson,  The  City  of  Dread/til  Night,  xiv. 


440  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

interpretation  of  nature,  which  I  have  already  sufficiently 
considered  in  the  text  (pp.  109-1 13). 

On  the  other  hand,  men  may  discover,  and  most 
TheSym-  ^^  ^^^  modern  poets  have  discovered,  in 
pathyof  nature,  not  indifference,  not  cruelty,  not 
Nature.  sensuous  beauty  only,  but  sympathy,  com- 
panionship, and  infinite  spiritual  significance.  As 
every  poet  responds  to  nature  according  to  the  peculiar 
qualities  of  his  own  temperament,  the  poetry  of 
emotional  interpretation  takes  many  different  forms, 
as  in  the  poetry  of  Wordsworth,  for  whom  nature 
was  divine,  and  who  sought  communion  through 
nature  with  nature's  indwelling  Soul ;  of  Shelley,  to 
whom  nature  was  a  mystical  revelation  of  that  eternal 
spirit  in  whom  all  modes  of  life  are  one  ;  of  Byron, 
who  found  in  nature  the  passionate  freedom  which 
the  conditions  of  the  human  lot  denied  to  man  ;  of 
Arnold,  to  whom,  on  the  contrary,  nature's  calm  was  a 
refuge  and  a  solace  to  the  fretful  and  troubled  heart.  The 
deeply  religious  quality  of  this  kind  of  nature-poetry  will 
be  specially  remarked  ;  as  pre-eminently  in  the  case  of 
Wordsworth,  who  has  shown,  as  Mr  Myers  has  put  it, 
"  by  the  subtle  intensity  of  his  own  emotion,  how  the 
contemplation  of  nature  can  be  made  a  revealing 
agency,  like  love  or  prayer — an  opening,  if  indeed 
there  be  any  opening,  into  the  transcendent  world." 
Not  to  carry  this  analysis  any  farther,  I  may  finally 

note  that  most  hisfhly  subjective  kind  of 
tive  Treat-  nature-poetry  in  which  all  nature  is  steeped 
mentof      j^  the  poet's  personal  feeling.     Very  much 

of  our  modern  poetry  comes  under  this  head, 
and  modern  readers,  as  a  rule,  find  it  extremely 
sympathetic.     In  fact,  the  ability  to  see  and  describe 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  NATtJRE  IN  POETRY    441 

any  natural  phenomenon  without  reference  to  personal 
feeling,  is  very  rare  in  recent  literature.  By  way  of 
example,  let  me  suggest  a  comparison  of  Keats's  Ode 
to  Autmnn  and  the  Autumn  of  Mr  William  Watson. 
The  former  is  almost  completely  objective ;  the  poet 
has  looked  steadily  at  his  subject,  and  no  disturbing 
sentiments  affect  his  picture.  In  the  latter,  the  poet's 
eye  is  turned  inward  upon  himself  rather  than  outward 
upon  the  world,  and  it  is  not  with  the  simple  facts  of 
the  autumnal  landscape  but  with  the  melancholy 
reflections  which  the  season  inspires,  that  he  is  really 
concerned.  Such  subjective  treatment  of  nature  brings 
us  at  once  to  the  question  of  the  pathetic  fallacy,  which 
has  already  been  discussed  in  the  text  (pp.  107-109). 

It  will,  of  course,  be  understood  that  the  foregoing 
inquiry  is  by  no  means  exhaustive.  It  is  intended 
only  to  open  the  way.  Nor  will  the  student  assume 
that  the  different  kinds  of  nature-poetry  which  have 
been  named  are  to  be  regarded  as  mutually  exclusive. 
One  kind  insensibly  merges  into  other  kinds ;  no 
fixed  line  can  anywhere  be  drawn  ;  and  the  different 
kinds  will  be  found  side  by  side,  or  overlapping,  or 
blended,  not  only  in  the  work  of  one  poet,  but  often 
even  in  the  same  poem  and  passage.  Outstanding 
features  and  dominant  tendencies,  however,  are 
generally  fairly  clear. 

Speaking  broadly,  we  may  say  that  the  interpretation 
of  nature  is  fundamentally  a  matter  of  temperament 
and  mood,  and  that  the  investigation  of  it  thus  forms 
part  of  the  personal  study  of  literature.  But  the 
subject  has  its  historic  aspects  also,  and  in  any  large 
survey  the  spirit  of  the  race  and  the  age  will  always 
have  to  be  taken  into  account  (cp.  pp.  44,  45). 


44i  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

III 

THE    STUDY    OF    THE    ESSAY 

The  essay  fills  so  large  a  place  in  modern  literature 
Various  ^^^  ^^  ^^  attractive  a  form  of  composition, 
types  of  that  attention  must  necessarily  be  given  to 
^°*^'  it  in  any  course  of  literary  study.  At  the 
same  time,  its  outlines  are  so  uncertain,  and  it  varies 
so  much  in  matter,  purpose,  and  style,  that  systematic 
treatment  of  it  is  impossible.  The  question  may 
indeed  be  raised  whether  the  essay  is  to  be  considered 
as  an  independent  and  settled  form  of  literary  art  at 
all.  The  force  of  this  question  becomes  apparent  the 
moment  we  compare  a  number  of  representative  essays 
by  different  writers,  and  observe,  as  indeed  no  one  can 
fail  to  observe,  how  little  they  have  in  common  in 
respect  either  of  theme  or  of  method.  An  essay  by 
Bacon  consists  of  a  few  pages  of  concentrated  wisdom, 
with  little  elaboration  of  the  ideas  expressed  ;  an  essay 
by  Montaigne  is  a  medley  of  reflections,  quotations, 
and  anecdotes  ;  in  an  essay  by  Addison,  the  thought 
is  thin  and  diluted,  and  the  tendency  is  now  towards 
light  didacticism  and  now  towards  personal  gossip ; 
Locke's  Essay  concerning  Human  Understanding  is  a 
ponderous  volume  close-packed  with  philosophic 
matter ;  the  essays  of  Macaulay  and  Herbert  Spencer 
are  really  small  books.  In  these  cases,  cited  hap- 
hazard and  for  purposes  of  illustration  only,  it  is 
evident  that  we  have  to  do  with  totally  different 
conceptions  of  what  the  essay  is  and  what  it  should 
aim   to   accomplish.      If  now   we   turn   to   attempted 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  ESSAY  443 

definitions  we  shall  find  little  in  them  to  clear  up 
the  confusion.  According  to  Johnson,  for  example, 
an  essay  is  "  a  loose  sally  of  the  mind,  an  irregular, 
undigested  piece,  not  a  regular  and  orderly  composi- 
tion"— a  view  v/hich  certainly  does  not  tally  with 
the  highly-evolved  essay  of  more  recent  times  ;  while 
Murray's  Dictionary^  taking  note  of  modern  changes 
in  the  meaning  of  the  word,  speaks  of  the  essay  as 
"a  composition  of  moderate  length  on  any  particular 
subject  or  branch  of  a  subject,"  adding — "  originally 
implying  want  of  finish,  but  now  said  of  a  composition 
more  or  less  elaborate  in  style,  though  limited  in 
range." 

Manifestly,  then,  the  word  essay  is  very  loosely 
used,  and  any  attempt  to  fix  rigorously  its  forms  and 
features  must  perforce  end  in  failure.  Yet  if  Murray's 
definition  be  scrutinised,  it  will,  I  believe  (and  this 
notwithstanding  the  fact  that  it  is  so  ingeniously 
qualified  that  at  first  it  seems  almost  meaningless),  be 
found  to  help  us  at  certain  points.  For  the  sake  of 
clearness  in  thinking  we  may  emphasise  as  character- 
istics of  the  true  essay  the  comparative  limitation 
both  of  length  and  of  range  which  is  brought  out  in 
it.  When  the  so-called  essay  grows  in  bulk  and 
comprehensiveness  to  the  proportions,  let  us  say,  of 
Spencer's  Essay  on  Progress,  the  proper  term  for  it  is 
rather  "  dissertation  "  or  "  treatise."  That  the  essay 
is  not  intended  to  be  exhaustive,  then,  is  one  aspect 
of  it  that  should  be  kept  in  mind.  Another  aspect  is 
suggested  by  Murray's  further  remark  that  it  originally 
implied  "want  of  finish" — that  it  was,  in  Johnson's 
delightfully  characteristic  phraseology,  "  a  loose  sally 
of  the  mind."     Etymologically,  the  word  essay  con- 


444  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

notes  this,  for  it  is  the  same  as  assay,  and  therefore 
means  a  trial  of  a  subject,  or  an  attempt  towards  it, 
and  not  in  the  least  a  thorough  and  final  examination 
of  it.  It  was  in  that  sense  that  it  was  employed  by 
our  first  modern  essayists,  Montaigne  and  Bacon  ;  ^ 
and  when  Locke  used  it  for  his  massive  treatise  it 
must  be  assumed  that  it  was  extreme  modesty  and 
the  sense  that,  after  all,  he  had  only  broken  ground 
on  his  subject  that  prompted  him  so  to  do.  Vast  as 
has  been  the  transformation  of  the  essay  since  the 
time  of  Montaigne  and  Bacon,  the  original  signification 
of  the  word  has  not  altogether  been  outgrown. 

The  essay,  then,  may  be  regarded,  roughly,  as  a 
General  composition  on  any  topic  the  chief  negative 
features,  features  of  which  are  comparative  brevity 
and  comparative  want  of  exhaustiveness.  It  was  to 
these  two  features  that  Crabbe  referred  the  extra- 
ordinary vogue  of  the  essay.  "The  essay,"  he  declared, 
"  is  the  most  popular  mode  of  writing,"  because  "  it 
suits  the  writer  who  has  neither  talent  nor  inclination 
to  pursue  his  inquiries  farther,  and  .  .  .  the  generality 
of  readers  who  are  amused  with  variety  and  super- 
ficiality." This  is  obviously  a  very  narrow  view ; 
but  I  quote  it  in  part  because  it  is  a  view  which  must 
be  considered;  and  even  more  because  it  serves  to 
introduce  a  contrasted  conception  of  the  essay  which 
is  much  more  important.  Crabbe,  it  will  be  noted, 
thought  the  essay  easy  because  (as  he  alleged)  it  is 
necessarily   superficial.       Sainte-Beuve,    on   the   other 

^So  Bacon  writes  in  the  dedication  to  the  1612  edition  of  his  Essays  : 
"  The  word  essay  is  late,  but  the  thing  is  ancient.  For  Seneca's  Epistles 
to  Lticilius,  if  one  mark  them  well,  are  but  essays,  that  is,  dispersed 
meditations." 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  ESSAY  445 

hand,  held  it  to  be  one  of  the  most  difficult,  as  well 
as  delightful,  forms  of  literary  expression,  because  for 
him  it  implied  (as  his  own  fine  essays  show)  the 
power  of  condensation,  or  of  saying  much  in  little. 
In  other  words,  he  would  not'  admit  that  brevity 
entails  superficiality.  He  believed  rather  that  a  good 
essay  should  be  characterised  by  that  combination  of 
conciseness  and  thoroughness  which  is  possible  only 
when  a  man  is  absolutely  master  of  his  subject. 
An  important  distinction  is  thus  suggested.  It  will 
always  be  well,  in  the  case  of  any  given  essay,  to 
consider  to  which  standard  it  seems  to  approximate — 
to  that  of  Crabbe,  or  to  that  of  Sainte-Beuve.  Is  it 
brief  because  the  writer  knows  little  of  his  subject 
and  therefore  soon  comes  to  the  end  of  what  he  has 
to  say  ?  Or  because  his  wide  and  intimate  know- 
ledge enables  him  to  disengage  and  present  both 
concisely  and  adequately  those  special  aspects  of  it 
with  which  for  the  moment  he  wishes  to  deal  ?  As 
practical  clues,  these  questions  will  be  found  to  take 
us  farther  than  might  at  first  sight  be  supposed. 

Comparative  brevity,  then,  must  in  any  event  be 
admitted  as  a  formal  feature  of  the  essay,  and  it 
would  therefore  seem  to  be  a  necessary  condition  of 
a  good  essay  that  it  should  not  attempt  too  much. 
Artistically,  it  will  inevitably  suffer  from  over-loading. 
Both  the  amount  of  material  introduced  and  the 
method  employed  in  dealing  with  it  must  be  adjusted 
to  the  restrictions  imposed.  Selection  and  the  proper 
distribution  of  emphasis  will  therefore  be  found  among 
the  elementary  principles  of  essay  writing.  At  the 
same  time,  while  an  essay  must  generally  be  confined 
to    aspects    only    of    a    subject,    it    should,    despite 


446  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEKATURE 

its   fragmentariness,  impress    us    as    complete    within 
itself. 

Another  commonly  accepted  canon  is,  that  the 
method  of  the  essay  (as  distinguished  from  that  of 
the  dissertation  and  the  treatise)  is  marked  by  con- 
siderable freedom  and  informality.  This  brings  it 
well  within  Johnson's  definition — "  a  loose  sally  of 
the  mind,  an  irregular,  undigested  piece."  A  certain 
want  of  organic  quality,  and  the  absence  of  that 
orderly  and  logical  mode  of  procedure  which  we  look 
for  in  the  more  ambitious  kinds  of  literature,  may  be 
reckoned  among  the  essay's  most  pronounced  structural 
peculiarities.  In  the  early  stages  of  its  evolution, 
indeed,  such  irregularity  and  (in  Murray's  words) 
"  want  of  finish,"  were  fundamental  ;  in  fact,  the 
essay  arose  because  men  had  come  to  feel  the  need 
of  a  vehicle  of  expression  in  which  they  could  enjoy 
something  of  the  freedom  of  conversation.  Thus 
Bacon's  essays  are,  as  he  himself  tells  us,  "  brief  notes 
set  down  rather  significantly  than  anxiously,"  while 
Montaigne's  discursiveness  and  habit  of  going  about 
his  subject  in  a  series  of  "hops,  and  skips,  and  jumps," 
are  notorious.  Charles  Lamb's  amusing  reference  to 
the  schoolmaster  who  offered  to  instruct  him  in  the 
art  of  regular  composition,  will  be  recalled  at  this 
point.  In  the  abstract,  therefore,  we  may  consider 
the  essay  as  relatively  unmethodical  as  well  as 
relatively  short.  The  well-marked  tendency  among 
modern  essayists  towards  greater  logical  consistency 
and  regularity  of  structure  is  only  one  among 
many  signs  of  the  transformation  of  the  essay 
into  something  different  from  the  original  and 
genuine  type. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  ESSAY  447 

Thus  far  I  have  dealt  only  with  the  formal  aspects 
of  the   essay.      Passing   from   form   to   sub- 
stance,    we     have     specially    to     note    that  Personal 

whatever   its   theme — and    the   range   of  its  I'actor  in 
.         r  .1,  the  Essay, 

subject-matter  is,-  of  course,  practically  un- 
limited— the  true  essay  is  essentially  personal.  Like 
its  verse  analogue,  the  lyric,  it  belongs  therefore  to 
the  literature  of  self-expression.  Treatise  and  dis- 
sertation may  be  objective ;  the  essay  is  subjective. 
Montaigne  said  of  his  essays  that  they  were  "con- 
substantial  "  with  their  author,  and  if  few  essayists 
have  ever  been  so  outspoken  and  so  unabashed  in 
their  egotism  as  this  wise  old  Frenchman,  the  vital 
relationship  between  their  work  and  themselves  may 
usually  be  detected  just  beneath  the  surface  of  what 
they  write.  The  central  fact  of  the  true  essay,  indeed, 
is  the  direct  play  of  the  author's  mind  and  character 
upon  the  matter  of  his  discourse. 

It  is  evident,  then,  that  in  our  study  of  the  essay 
there  are  several  things  which  have  to  be  The  study 
kept  in  view.  In  the  first  place,  we  have  of  the 
to  consider  the  writer's  personality  and  stand-  ^^^^* 
point,  his  attitude  immediately  towards  his  subject,  and 
incidentally,  towards  life  at  large.  While  thus  dis- 
engaging the  personal  qualities  of  his  work,  we  have 
also  to  follow  the  evolution  of  his  thought,  marking 
what  aspects  of  his  subject  he  has  selected  for  treat- 
ment, how  he  introduces  his  ideas,  how  he  handles  and 
enforces  them,  and  how  he  brings  them  to  a  conclusion. 
Under  this  head  we  have,  moreover,  to  examine  his 
whole  art  of  presentation,  exposition,  and  illustration, 
and,  manifestly,  to  estimate  the  value  of  what  he  says. 
Finally,  we  have  to  pay  particular   attention  to  his 


448  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

style  which,  on  account  of  the  strong  personal  element 
in  the  essay,  will  be  found  of  great  importance.  On 
this  matter,  however,  nothing  remains  to  be  added  to 
what  has  been  said  in  the  text  (pp.  34-38)  about  style 
in  general  as  an  index  of  personality. 

An  historical  study  of  the  essay  will,  of  course, 
include  a  consideration  of  its  growth  and  transforma- 
tion, and  of  the  way  in  which  it  has  influenced,  and 
been  influenced  by,  other  forms  of  literature.  Its  con- 
nection with  the  novel,  of  which  it  was  one  of  the 
affluents,  and  into  the  composition  of  which  it  still 
often  enters,  is  a  point  of  special  interest.^  Let  me 
add  that  what  I  have  said  about  the  transformation  of 
the  essay  must  be  taken  simply  as  the  statement  of  a 
fact.  No  judgment  upon  the  fact  is  suggested.  We 
may  regret  the  tendency  of  the  modern  essay  towards 
greater  elaboration  and  formality,  and  may  feel  that 
this  implies  loss  of  freedom  and  personal  charm.  Yet 
literary  types  must  necessarily  evolve  in  response  to 
changing  conditions,  and  their  evolution  is,  at  bottom, 
a  sign  of  continued  life. 

1  The  reference  is  to  the  part  played  by  the  **  social  essay"  of  the  early 
eighteenth  century,  especially  the  Spectator  papers,  in  the  development 
of  the  novel,  and  to  the  fact  that  in  the  works  of  many  modern  novelists 
(as  in  those  of  Thackeray  and  George  Eliot)  essays  are  frequently  incor- 
porated in  the  story.  {Cp.  what  has  been  said  on  p.  219,  about  the 
novelist's  use  of  direct  commentary  and  explanation.) 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  SHORT  STORY  449 

IV 

THE    STUDY    OF    THE    SHORT    STORY 

The  short  story  has  firmly  established  itself  as  a 
favourite  form  in  modern  literature.  Its  immense 
vogue  is  the  result  of  many  co-operating  causes  ; 
among  them,  the  rush  of  modern  life,  which  has  made 
men  impatient  of  those  "great  still  books"  (as 
Tennyson  called  them)  over  which  readers  were  glad 
to  linger  in  more  leisurely  ages,  and  the  enormous 
development  of  the  magazine,  in  which  a  large  field 
is  naturally  afforded  for  tales  complete  in  a  single 
number.  So  popular,  indeed,  has  the  story  become 
that  extraordinary  claims  are  at  times  put  forth  in  its 
behalf  We  are  even  told  that  it  is  the  "  coming 
form "  of  fiction,  and  that  ultimately  it  will  displace 
the  novel  entirely.  Such  claims,  however,  may  be 
safely  set  aside.  The  story  is  not  in  the  least  likely 
to  displace  the  novel  for  the  very  good  The  story 
reason  that  it  cannot  meet  the  novel  on  the  and  the 
novel's  own  ground,  or  do  precisely  what  the  ^°^®  * 
novel  does.  It  cannot,  for  instance,  exhibit  life  in  its 
variety  and  complexity,  for  this  needs  a  larger  canvas 
than  the  story  provides.  Nor,  for  the  same  reason, 
can  it  deal  with  the  evolution  of  character,  which,  as 
we  have  seen  (pp.  194-196),  is  one  of  the  most 
important  problems  of  modern  prose  fiction.  Quite 
manifestly,  to  cite  extreme  cases,  the  spiritual  history 
of  Levin  in  Anna  Karenina^  and  the  study  of  Tito 
Melema's  moral  downfall  in  Romola,  would  be 
impossible  within  the  framework  of  the  short  story. 
2  F 


450  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

It  is  a  matter  of  common  experience  that  we  have  to 
live  for  some  time  with  men  and  women  and  to  see 
them  in  different  relationships  and  circumstances 
before  we  get  really  to  know  them  ;  and  this,  I  take 
it,  is  as  true  of  men  and  women  in  fiction  as  it  is  of 
men  and  women  in  actual  life.  But  in  the  short 
story  we  meet  people  for  a  few  minutes  and  see  them 
in  a  few  relationships  and  circumstances  only  ;  and 
while  it  is  indeed  true  that  concentration  of  attention 
upon  a  particular  aspect  of  character  may  result  in  a 
very  powerful  impression,^  still,  as  a  rule,  such  impres- 
sion is  not  exactly  comparable  with  that  left  by  an 
ampler,  more  detailed,  and  more  varied  representation. 
Hence  those  characters  in  fiction  who  dwell  in  our 
imaginations  as  fully  portrayed  and  completely  alive, 
are,  if  I  mistake  not,  generally  characters  in  novels. 
So  long  as  people  are  interested  in  the  intricacy  and 
manysidedness  of  life  and  in  minute  studies  of 
character  in  the  making  or  the  unmaking,  we  may 
thus  safely  conclude  that  the  novel  will  hold  its  own 
as  the  representative  type  of  modern  literary  art. 
The  tendency  of  the  short  story  to  run  into  sequences 
(as  in  Stevenson's  New  Arabian  Nights  and  Sir 
Arthur  Conan  Doyle's  Sherlock  Holmes  books)  is  itself 
suggestive  of  a  desire  on  the  part  of  its  writers  to 
escape  from  its  formal  limitations.  We  may  interpret 
such  examples  of  emancipation  as  attempts  to 
combine  the  brevity  and  concentration  of  the  story 
with  something  of  the  sustained  interest  of  the  novel 
on  the  side  either  of  character  or  of  plot. 

^  It  may  be  noted  that  Maupassant,  one  of  the  greatest  masters  of  the 
short  story,  was  far  more  successful  with  his  characterisation  when  work- 
ing in  the  story  than  he  was  when  he  essayed  the  novel. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  SHORT  STORY  451 

We  are  here  concerned  with  the  short  story, 
therefore,  not  as  a  rival  to,  or  as  a  substitute  for,  the 
novel,  but  as  another  kind  of  prose  fiction,  which  has 
grown  up  beside  the  novel,  and  has  now  its  recognised 
and  important  place  in  literature.  Some  inquiry 
into  its  objects  and  methods  is  for  this  reason 
desirable. 

For  working  purposes  we  need  a  rough  definition 
to  start  with,  and  that  suggested  by  Edgar  ^^^^^  ^^  ^ 
Allen  Poe  will  do  well  enough :  a  short  short 
story  is  a  prose  narrative  "requiring  from  ^^^'^^ 
half  an  hour  to  one  or  two  hours  in  its  perusal." 
Putting  the  same  idea  into  different  phraseology,  we 
may  say  that  a  short  story  is  a  story  that  can  be 
easily  read  at  a  single  sitting.  Yet  while  the  brevity 
thus  specified  is  the  most  obvious  characteristic  of  the 
kind  of  narrative  in  question,  the  evolution  of  the 
story  into  a  definite  type  has  been  accompanied  by 
the  development  also  of  some  fairly  well-marked 
characteristics      of     organism.  It     is     now     very 

commonly  recognised  that  a  true  short  story  is  not 
merely  a  novel  on  a  reduced  scale,  or  a  digest  in 
thirty  pages  of  matter  which  would  have  been  quite 
as  effectively,  or  even  more  effectively  handled  in 
three  hundred.  The  older  forms  of  story,  indeed, 
exhibit  in  general  a  very  imperfect  differentiation  of 
the  growing  type  from  the  parent  stock.  Thus,  for 
instance,  Dickens's  Christmas  Books  are  in  organism 
simply  novels,  though  novels-in-little.  This  statement 
of  fact  does  not,  of  course,  imply  any  adverse 
judgment  upon  these  ever-delightful  and,  in  their  own 
way,  quite  admirable  examples  of  the  story-teller's 
art.      It   is    made   only   to    illustrate    the    distinction, 


452  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 

which  since  Dickens's  time  has  been  emerging  into 
greater  and  greater  clearness,  between  the  materials 
and  method  of  the  novel  and  the  materials  and 
method  of  the  story.  Even  to-day  we  meet  with  in- 
numerable indeterminate  productions  the  place  of  which 
is  on  the  border-line  between  the  two  classes  of  fiction. 
But,  on  the  whole,  the  increasing  popularity  of  the 
story  has  brought  with  it  an  increasing  sense  that  con- 
siderations of  art  involve  various  specific  require- 
ments of  matter  and  treatment.  In  other  words,  as 
the  story  differs  from  the  novel  in  length,  so  it 
must  of  necessity  differ  from  it  in  motive,  plan,  and 
structure. 

Of  such  requirements  the  first  may  be  very  easily 
formulated.  The  subject  of  a  story  must  be 
^^3^^  one  that  can  be  adequately  and  effectively 
position:  developed  within  the  prescribed  limits.  On 
trati°on^^  this  point  the  reader's  own  feeling  of  satis- 
faction or  dissatisfaction  will  provide  a 
sufficient  test.^  Whatever  its  particular  theme  and 
object,  a  story  should  leave  us  with  the  conviction 
that,  even  if  nothing  would  have  been  lost,  at  least 
nothing  would  have  been  gained,  by  further  elabora- 
tion. It  should  impress  us  as  absolutely  clear  in 
outline,  well  proportioned,  full  enough  for  the  purpose 
yet  without  the  slightest  suggestion  of  crowding,  and 
within  its  own  framework  complete. 

This  first  principle  of  composition  is  not  to  be 
interpreted  too  narrowly.  I  do  not  mean  that  a 
story  must  necessarily  be  confined  to  a  single  incident 
or   moment.     A   story   may   be   little  more  than   an 

^  Compare  at  this  point  what  has  been  said  about  plot  and  characteris- 
ation in  the  novel  and  the  drama  respectively  on  pp.  242-245  and  247-250. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  SHORT  STOKY  453 

anecdote  worked  up  into  literary  form,  and  its  success 
may  depend  entirely  upon  the  skill  shown  in  the 
telling.  It  may  deal  with  some  one  phase  of  character 
or  experience,  or  with  a  detached  critical  scene.  But, 
on  the  other  hand,  it  may  cover  a  wider  field  of  time 
and  involve  a  larger  sequence  of  events  than  many 
novels.  Yet  even  in  these  last-named  cases  the 
principle  before  us  will  still  be  exemplified.  In 
Washington  Irving's  Rip  Van  Winkle^  for  example, 
we  have  the  tale  of  a  life-time ;  yet  as  even  the  least 
critical  reader  will  instinctively  feel,  the  effect  is 
greatly  enhanced  by  that  concentration  of  interest 
which  inevitably  results  when  such  a  subject  is  put 
into  so  small  a  space,  and  in  particular,  by  the  fact 
that  no  extraneous  matter  is  allowed  to  intrude 
between  the  moment  of  Rip  s  falling  asleep  and  that 
of  his  waking.  Again,  to  take  a  very  different 
illustration,  Maupassant's  grim  little  masterpiece. 
La  Parure,  contains  the  long-drawn-out  tragedy  of 
many  years  ;  yet  once  more  an  enormous  artistic  gain 
is  achieved  by  the  focussing  of  attention  throughout 
upon  the  single  motive  on  which  the  story  turns,  and 
by  the  rigorous  exclusion  of  everything  not  directly 
connected  with  it.  When,  therefore,  we  insist  that 
the  subject  of  a  short  story  must  be  one  that  can  be 
adequately  and  effectively  handled  within  the  limits  of 
the  short  story,  we  must  not  forget  that  in  this,  as  in 
all  other  forms  of  art,  the  question  of  subject  is  vitally 
bound  up  with  that  of  treatment. 

A    second    fundamental    principle    of    composition 
thus  comes  to  light — that  of  unity;    under 
which    head    we    include    unity    of   motive, 
of  purpose,  of  action,  and,  in  addition  (in  regard  to 


454  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE  \ 

results),  unity  of  impression.  It  may  be  laid  down 
as  a  rule  to  which,  so  far  as  I  see,  there  can  be  no 
exception,  that  a  short  story  must  contain  one  and 
only  one  informing  idea,  and  that  this  idea  must 
be  worked  out  to  its  logical  conclusion  with  absolute 
singleness  of  aim  and  directness  of  method.  It  is  this 
essential  kind  of  unity  which  will  be  found  to 
characterise  every  really  good  short  story,  whether 
it  belong  to  the  highly  concentrated  type,  like 
Hawthorne's  Dr  Heidegger  s  Experiment,  Poe's  The 
Cask  of  Amontillado,  and  Stevenson's  The  Sieur  de 
Maletroiis  Door-,  or  the  highly  expanded  type,  like 
Maupassant's  La  Parure ;  or  to  any  type  (like,  say, 
Bret  Harte's  The  Luck  of  Roaring  Camp)  the  place 
of  which  is  somewhere  between  the  two  extremes. 
In  the  case  of  the  novel,  so  many  different  elements 
may  be  woven  into  the  texture  that  it  may  be 
difficult  to  detect  any  central  organising  principle, 
while  at  times  analysis  may  reveal  two  or  more  quite 
distinct  pivots  of  interest.  No  such  scattering  of 
attention  can  be  permitted  in  the  story.  Here,  on 
the  contrary,  the  germinal  idea  must  be  perfectly  clear 
and  the  interest  arising  out  of  it  must  never  be 
complicated  by  any  other  consideration.  Singleness 
of  aim  and  singleness  of  effect  are  therefore  the  two 
great  canons  by  which  we  have  to  try  the  value  of  a 
short  story  as  a  piece  of  art. 

Attainment  of  this  unity  is  one  of  the  principal 
difficulties  of  short  story  writing ;  and  in  passing  it 
may  be  noted  that  it  is  largely  because  the  art  of  the 
story  is  so  much  more  exacting  than  that  of  the 
novel  that  many  critics  rate  it  higher  than  the  novel, 
and    that     perfection     of    workmanship     in     it — the 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  SHORT  STOKY  455 

complete  adaptation  of  means  to  end — gives  peculiar 
aesthetic  pleasure  to  the  thoughtful  reader.  As  Poe 
said  :  "  A  skilful  literary  artist  .  .  .  having  conceived, 
with  deliberate  care,  a  certain  unique  or  single  effect 
to  be  wrought  out,  he  then  invents  such  incidents — he 
then  combines  such  events — as  may  best  aid  him  in 
establishing  this  preconceived  effect.  If  his  very 
initial  sentence  tend  not  to  the  outbringing  of  this 
effect,  then  he  has  failed  in  his  first  step.  In  the 
whole  composition  there  should  be  no  word  written, 
of  which  the  tendency,  direct  or  indirect,  is  not  to  the 
one  pre-established  design.  And  by  such  means, 
with  such  care  and  skill,  a  picture  is  at  length  painted 
which  leaves  in  the  mind  of  him  who  contemplates  it 
with  a  kindred  art,  a  sense  of  the  fullest  satisfaction. 
The  idea  of  the  tale  has  been  presented  unblemished, 
because  undisturbed  ;  and  this  is  an  end  unattainable 
by  the  novel."  ^  This  must,  of  course,  be  taken  as 
a  counsel  of  perfection  ;  but  it  is  useful  as  indicating 
that  theoretic  standard  of  excellence  which  we  shall 
do  well  to  keep  in  view.  By  reason  of  its  brevity 
and  concentration,  the  short  story  manifestly  demands 
particular  care  in  all  the  details  of  composi-  details  of 
tion.  Far  more  than  in  the  novel,  every-  Composi- 
thing  superfluous  and  redundant  must  be  ^°°' 
omitted,  the  proper  perspective  must  be  maintained, 
the  emphasis  justly  distributed,  the  necessary  values 
given  to  the  successive  movements  of  the  narrative, 
and  the  separate  parts  strictly  subordinated  to  the 
whole.  Technical  defects  in  the  story,  it  should  be 
noted,  stand  out  with  much  greater  clearness  than  the 
same    defects    in   the    novel  ;     Scott's    clumsiness    in 

^  Review  of  Hawthorne's  Twice-  J^old  Tales, 


456  THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUEE 

getting  his  plots  started,  for  instance,  while  bad 
enough  in  Waverley}  nearly  ruins  My  Aunt  Margarets 
Mirror}  At  the  same  time,  it  is  obviously  impossible 
to  lay  down  any  abstract  rules  for  construction. 
Here,  as  always,  method  must  ultimately  depend 
upon  matter  and  purpose.  A  story  may,  for  example, 
contain  little  or  no  dialogue,  or  it  may  be  nearly  all 
dialogue  ;  and  while  in  the  great  majority  of  cases 
the  amount  of  description  introduced  must  be  small, 
occasionally,  as  in  Cable's  Old  Creole  Days  and 
Stevenson's  Island  Night's  Entertainments,  local 
colour  is  an  essential  feature  and  the  expansion  of 
description  is  therefore  fully  justified.  The  great 
principle  of  all  true  art  is  thus  again  applicable ; 
details  can  be  rightly  estimated  only  by  reference  to 
the  total  design. 

In  regard  to  the  nature  of  the  germinal  idea,  again, 
The  Ger-  generalisation  is  equally  out  of  the  question, 
minai  Idea.  Provided  that  the  elementary  conditions 
which  have  been  emphasised  are  fulfilled,  a  story  may 
deal  with  any  kind  of  motive  and  material.  In 
Washington  Irving's  The  Stout  Gentleman  a  whimsical 
fancy  is  worked  out  with  admirable  skill,  and  the 
very  slightness  of  the  substance  is  an  element  in  the 
impression  produced.  Poe's  Gold  Bug  turns  on  a 
puzzle  ;  his  Mystery  of  Marie  Roget  aims  at  sensation  ; 
his  Purloined  Letter  is  a  "  tale  of  ratiocination " ; 
his  Masque  of  the  Red  Death,  pure  impressionism,  or 
(in  his  own  classification)  a  "  tale  of  effect." 
Hawthorne's  Wakefield,  with  its  attempt  to  recon- 
struct a  character  on  the  basis  of  a  bare  fact,  is,  like 
Gogol's  marvellous  MadmatHs  Diary^  and  Stevenson's 

1  See  p.  1 80,  note. 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  SHORT  STORY  457 

Olalla^  an  excursion  into  morbid  psychology  ;  the 
Minister's  Veil  is  a  piece  of  mysticism  ;  The  Great 
Stone  Face  is  an  allegory ;  The  Maypole  of  Merry 
Mount  and  The  Grey  Champion  roughly  resemble 
Riehl's  Kulturgeschichtliche  Novellen  and  Strindberg's 
Svenska  Oden  och  Aventyr^  in  being  primarily  repre- 
sentative pictures  of  the  past.  To  the  last  class  the 
wonderful  little  story,  When  Father  brought  Home  the 
Lamp,  of  the  Finnish  novelist  Aho,  may  also  be  said 
to  belong.  Stockton's  The  Lady  or  the  Tiger  and 
Aid  rich's  Marjorie  Daw  are  contrived  expressly  for 
the  dramatic  surprise  of  their  endings — in  the  one 
case  the  conundrum,  in  the  other,  the  sudden  shock  of 
disenchantment.  Stevenson's  Bottle  Lmp  is  pure 
fantasy.  In  Tolstoi's  Polushka  the  whole  interest 
hinges  on  the  workings  of  the  moujik's  mind,  while 
many  of  the  same  writer's  later  tales  are  either 
expanded  anecdotes  illustrative  of  the  Russian 
peasantry,  or  moral  and  religious  parables.  These 
are  examples,  which  I  cite  as  they  occur  to  me,  and 
wholly  for  the  purpose  of  suggesting  the  immense 
range — the  practically  unlimited  range — of  the  short 
story  in  respect  of  theme.  A  dramatic  incident  or 
situation  ;  a  telling  scene  ;  a  closely  co-ordinated 
series  of  events ;  a  phase  of  character ;  a  bit  of 
experience  ;  an  aspect  of  life  ;  a  moral  problem — 
any  one  of  these,  and  innumerable  other  motives 
which  might  be  added  to  the  list,  may  be  made  the 
nucleus  of  a  thoroughly  satisfactory  story. 

A  glance  at  the  actual  practice  of  two  accomplished 
masters  of  the  art  of  the  story  may  at  this  point    niustra- 
be     interesting.       Hawthorne's     Note    Books    ^'^^'^^ 
contain  many  suggestions  for  stories,  and  they  show 


458  THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATURE 

us  that  in  his  case  the  first  conception — the  germinal 
idea,  as  I  have  called  it — came  to  him  generally  in 
the  form,  not  of  an  incident  or  of  a  plot,  but  of  a 
detached  situation,  or  of  a  particular  manifestation  of 
character,  or  of  an  abstract  thought  which  had  to  be 
put  into  concrete  shape.  Considering  the  peculiar 
character  of  Hawthorne's  genius  we  are  certainly  not 
surprised  to  find  that  with  him  the  starting-point  of 
a  story  was  often  some  curious  fancy  or  speculation 
regarding  the  obscurer  workings  of  motive  and  feeling. 
The  strange  tale  already  mentioned — Wakefield — is 
an  instance,  and  I  will  give  another.  In  the 
American  Note  Books  for  1840  there  is  an  entry 
which  runs :  "  A  person  to  be  the  death  of  his 
beloved  in  trying  to  raise  her  to  a  more  than  mortal 
loveliness  ;  yet  this  should  be  a  comfort  to  him  for 
having  aimed  so  high  and  holily."  This  was  the 
origin  of  The  Birth  Mark.  The  very  emphatic 
declaration  of  Stevenson  concerning  the  three  great 
types  of  story,  is  equally  illuminating.  I  quote  from 
a  conversation  which  he  once  had  on  the  subject  with 
Mr  Graham  Balfour  :  " '  There  are,  so  far  as  I  know, 
three  ways,  and  three  ways  only,  of  writing  a  story. 
You  may  take  a  plot  and  fit  characters  to  it,  or  you 
may  take  a  character  and  choose  incidents  and  situa- 
tions to  develop  it,  or  lastly — you  must  bear  with  me 
while  I  try  to  make  this  clear ' — (here  he  made  a 
gesture  with  his  hand  as  if  he  were  trying  to  shape 
something  and  give  it  outline  and  form) — 'you  may 
take  a  certain  atmosphere,  and  get  actions  and  persons 
to  realise  it.  I'll  give  you  an  example — The  Merry 
Men.  There  I  began  with  the  feeling  of  one  of  those 
islands  on  the  west  coast  of  Scotland,  and  I  gradually 


THE  STUDY  OF  THE  SHORT  STORY  459 

developed  the  story  to  express  the  sentiment  with 
which  that  coast  affected  me.'"^  Here,  even  if  the 
classification  given  is  not  quite  so  final  as  Stevenson 
thought,  we  have  a  most  useful  clue  in  our  study  of 
the  story.  Our  first  business  will  always  be  to  dis- 
engage the  initial  conception  and  foundation  interest ; 
and  in  our  search  for  this  we  shall  be  greatly  helped 
by  keeping  in  mind  the  distinction  here  brought  out 
between  the  story  of  plot,  the  story  of  character,  and 
(in  a  larger  sense  than  Stevenson  himself  perhaps 
attached  to  the  term)  the  story  of  impression. ^ 

It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  add  that  in  the  foregoing 
brief  discussion  of  the  short  story  I  have  taken  no 
account  of  the  elements  which  enter  into  its  composi- 
tion. Such  elements  are  the  same  as  those  which 
constitute  the  raw  materials  of  the  novel,  and  the 
canons  by  which  they  are  to  be  evaluted  are  the 
canons  which  have  already  been  considered  at  length 
in  our  chapter  on  prose  fiction  in  general.  We  have 
here  been  concerned  only  with  the  characteristics  and 
requirements  of  the  short  story  as  a  specific  form  of 
literary  art,  having,  like  every  other  specific  form  of 
art,  its  own  organism  and  its  own  laws. 

The  reader  does  not  need  any  introduction  to  the 
best  English  and  American  story-writers.  He  will  be 
well-advised,  however,  if  he  carries  his  studies  farther 
afield,  for  much  of  the  finest  work  in  the  story  has 
been  done  by  the  great  continental  masters.  The 
list  of  these  is  a  long  one  ;  but  special  mention  may 
perhaps  be  made   of  Merim^e,  Gautier,  Daudet,  and 

^  Graham  "BzlioMi's  Life  of  Stevenson y  ii.  169. 

^  In  theory,  Poe  held  strongly  to  the  superiority  of  the  story  of  impres- 
sion, or  eiTect,  as  he  called  it. 


46o  THE  STUJ^Y  OF  LITERATUEE 

Maupassant  among  the  French  ;  of  Paul  Heyse,  who 
holds  the  pre-eminent  place  among  the  Germans ; 
and  of  Pushkin,  Tolstoi,  Gorki,  and  Chekhov  among 
the  Russians,  As  always  in  such  cases,  the  wider  the 
range  of  our  interest,  the  more  opportunity  we  get  for 
a  comparison  of  essential  differences,  personal  and 
racial,  in  matter,  method,  and  aims. 


INDEX 


Addison,  68 ;  as  critic,  366-368 ;  as 
essayist,  442;  on  the  "  mixed  play," 
320 ;  on  the  popularisation  of  litera- 
ture, 71  n. ;  Cato,  314  n.  See  also 
Spectator 

iSschylUS,  307,  308,  317  ;  his  use  of 
contrast,  292 ;  Agamemnon,  253,  321 
n.  ;  Eumenides,  235  n.  3  ;  Libation 
Bearers,  264 

Akenside,  M.,  For  a  Grotto,  153 

Aldrich,  T.  B.,  Marjorie  Daw,  4.^,7 

Alneri,  316 

Alliteration,  163 

Apuleius,  433 

Ariosto,  Orlando  Furioso,  142 

Aristoplianes,  306,  307 ;  The  Frogs, 
317  n. 

Aristotle,  242,  243, 244  n.,  300  n,,  364, 
366,  367,  368  n.  I ;  on  the  chorus  in 
tragedy,  308  n.,  309  n. ;  on  the 
"god  out  of  the  machine,"  284  ;  on 
the  dramatic  unities,  321  n. ,  324; 
on  poetry,  86  ri.  ;  on  poetic  truth, 
220 

Arnold,  M.,  16,  119,  174,  347,  420; 
as  critic,  369,  370,  374,  376,  378, 
383,  385  n. ;  his  theory  and  practice 
as  a  poet,  o^  !  tiis  treatment  of 
nature,  428,  431,  432  n.  i,  434,  436, 
438,  440 ;  his  "  touchstones  of 
poetry,"  419;  on  the  birth  of 
modern  English  prose,  68  ;  on  the 
chorus  in  Greek  tragedy,  310;  on 
criticism,  375,  376  ;  on  impersonal- 
ity in  literature,  135  n.  i  ;  on  metre, 
90 ;  on  minor  authors,  352 ;  on 
poetry,  83,  100,  loi,  121 ;  on  the 
training  of  a  critic,  381 ;  on  Words- 
worth's "Immortality" Ode,  115 n.  ; 
Dover  Beach,  428 ;  Empedocles  on 
Etna,  149  ;  Forsaken  Mer^nan,  147  ; 
The  Future,  157,  162 ;  Heine's 
Grave,  132 ;  Memorial  Verses,  1850, 


132  ;  Obermann,  132,  436 ;  Rugby 
Chapel,  132 ;  Sohrab  and  Rustum, 
140,  431,  432  n.  I,  434;  Stanzas 
from  the  Grande  Chartreuse,  436  ; 
Strayed  Reveller,  162;  T hyr sis,  1-^2 ; 
Tristram  and  Iseult,  143  ;  Yo7ith  of 
Nature,  438 

Art,  as  "  life  seen  through  a  tempera- 
ment," 17  ;  as  "  a  mode  of  amplify- 
ing experience,"  22;  "for  art's 
sake,"  120-122 

Aubignac,  d',  321  n. 

Augustine,  St,  167  n 

Austen,  J.,  her  characterisation,  193, 
196 ;  her  fidelity,  175-177 ;  her 
plots,  185  ;  her  slight  use  of  milieu, 
214 

Authors,  systematic  study  of,  23-26 

Aho,  457 

Bacon,  352,  420  n.  ;  his  Essays,  442, 
444,  446 ;  on  poetry,  86,  88,  106 

Bagehot,  W.,  on  prose  and  verse,  91 

Ballad,  the,  136,  137 ;  treatment  of 
nature  in,  428,  429 

Ballad  revival,  the,  394 

Balzac,  H.  de,  24,  25,  181,  214 

Bamett,  L.  D.,  269  n. 

Batradiomyomachia,  141 

Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  use  of  sex- 
ambiguity,  305 ;  Philaster,  255, 
283,  305 

Becker,  his  Charicles  and  Gallus, 
212  n. 

Beeching,  Canon,  286,  340,  343,  344 

Beowulf,  138,  424  n.  2 

Biography,  as  an  aid  to  literary 
study,  27;  its  abuse,  28-30;  it's 
use,  30,  31 

Blackie,  J.  S.  232,  235  n.  i 

Blank  verse,  162,  314  n. 

46X 


462 


THE  STUDY  OF  LITEEATURE 


Boas,  F.  S.,  343 
Bodmer,  62 

Boileau,  on  the  dramatic  unities,  320 

Bosanquet,  B.,  405 

Bowles,  W.  L.,  on  Pope,  393 

Bronte,  C,  18,  44  ;  Jane  Eyre,  187 

Brooke,  S.,  on  Bunyan,  388,  389 

Browning  E.  B.,  Aurora  Leigh,  44, 
145.  146 

Browning,  R.,  26,  119  ;  on  the  inter- 
pretative power  of  art,  116  ;  on 
philosophy  in  poetry,  123;  Andrea 
del  Sarto,  147  n.  ;  7^he  Bishop 
orders  his  Tomb,  148 ;  Caliban 
upon  Setebos,  147  n.  ;  Clean,  149 ; 
Dramatic  Lyrics,  146  ;  A  Forgive- 
ness, 147  ;  Fra  Lippo  Lippi,  119, 
147  n.  ;  Hervi  Riel,  138  ;  How  they 
b7-ought  the  Good  News  from  Ghent, 
147  ;  La  Saisiaz,  132  ;  My  Last 
Duchess,  148 ;  Muliykeh,  147 ; 
Paracelsus,  149 :  Prince  Hohenstiel- 
Schwangau,  148  ;  Rabbi  Ben  Ezra, 
149,  160;  Red  Cotton  Night-Cap 
Country,  145 

Brunetiere,  F. ,  386  n.  ;  on  im- 
personahty  in  literature,  135  n.  ; 
on  mediosval  hterature,  425 ;  on 
the  training  of  a  critic,  379,  380. 

Buchanan,  R.,  Judas  Iscariot,  138 

Buffon,  on  style,  34 

Bunyan,  change  in  critical  opinion 
concerning,  387-390 

Burger,  63 

Burke,  E,,  on  Bunyan,  388 

Bumey,  F.,  Evelina,  188 

Bums,  46 

•'  Bums  "  stanza,  the,  160 

Butcher,  Prof.,  on  the  influence  of 
printing  on  literary  appreciation, 
166,  167 

Byron,  communal  element  in  his 
poetry,  128 ;  on  Pope,  393 ;  his 
verse-romances,  143  ;  his  treatment 
of  nature,  435,  440  ;  Beppo,  161 ; 
Childe  Harold,  435 ;  Bride  of 
Abydos,  156  ;  Don  Juan,  160 ;  She 
walks  in  beauty,  160 

Cable,  G.  V/.,  Old  Creole  Days,  456 
Calderon,     314;    El   Mdgico   Pro- 
digioso,  290 


Camoens,  Os  Lusiadas,  140 

Campbell,  L.,  on  Sophocles'  use  of 
the  chorus,  310  n. 

Carlyle,  18,  19,  29,  38  n. ,  71,  181  ;  on 
metre,  89,  90;  on  poetry,  83,  119  ; 
on  style,  34 ;  his  biographical 
essays,  30  ;  his  style,  67,  68 

Catholicity  in  literature,  411 

Catullus,  his  treatment  of  nature, 
438 

Chansons  de  gestes,  142 

Characterisation,  see  Drama,  Novel 

Chateaubriand,  loi 

Chatterton,  66 ;  his  versification, 
155  n. 

Chaucer,  65,  181 ;  his  treatment  of 
nature,  427,  428 ;  Catiterbury 
Tales,  144,  147  n.  ;  Kniqhtes  Tale, 
142 

Chekhov,  460 

Cheyne,  Canon,  128,  431 

Chorus,  in  songs,  128 ;  in  Greek 
Tragedy,  see  Greek  Tragedy 

Chronicle-dramas,  245 

Chronological  method,  the,  in  study- 
ing an  author's  works,  24 

Clarendon,  68 

"Classic,"  defined,  411 

"  Classics,"  the,  417-419 

Classics,  Greek  and  Latin,  their  in- 
fluence on  modern  literatures,  58,  59 

ClOUgh,  A,  H.,  Bothie  of  Tober-na- 
Vuolich,  162 

Coleridge,  66 ;  as  critic,  377,  378 ; 
on  Dogberry,  250  n.  2  ;  on  the 
Lyrical  Ballads,  222  n.  ;  on  poetry, 
83,  88,  118,  119,  122;  Ancient 
Mariner,  147  ;  Christabel,  155 

Collins,  William,  377  n.  i ;  Ode  to 
Evening,  130  ;   The  Passions,  130 

Collins,  WilMe,  on  curiosity  and 
surprise  in  the  novel,  304  n.  ;  his 
method,  188 ;  his  plots,  185  ; 
Woman  in  White,  184 

Communal  element,  the,  in  poetry, 
127,  128,  131  ;  in  early  literature, 
422-426 

Commimal  personality,  426 
Comparative  method,   the,   in  the 
study  of  authors,  26  ;    in  the  his- 
torical study  of  literature,   42-45, 


INDEX 


463 


■^5-57  ■>  i"  t'he  study  of  criticism, 
384-386 

Congreve,  W, ,  on  the  use  of  soliloquy 
in  the  Drama,  261,262 

Contemporary  literature,  416 

Comeille,  P.,  316;  his  use  of  the 
unities,  322,  324 ;  Don  Sanche,  319  ; 
Le  Cid,  322,  324,  327 

Couplet,  classic  and  romantic,  161, 
162 

Courthope,  Prof.,  394 ;  on  poetry,  84 

Cowley,  A.,  70  n.  ;  Pindaric  Odes, 
131  n.  I 

Cowper,  46  ;  on  Bunyan,  388 

Crabbe,  144 

Crawford,  Marion,  on  the  novel,  169 

Creative  power,  190,  191 

Critic,  the,  his  qualifications,  379  ; 
training  and  equipment,  379-382  ; 
spirit,  383 

Criticism,  defined,  346 ;  common  ob- 
jections to,  347,  348  ;  as  literature, 
348,  349,  374,  375 ;  abuse  of,  349- 
354;  use  of,  354,  355;  Its  two 
functions,  355 ,  as  interpretation, 
356,  357 ;  inductive  or  scientific, 
357-364 ;  judicial,  364-368,  370-374  ; 
influence  of  the  modern  spirit  on, 
369 ;  personal  aspects  of,  375-384  ; 
comparative  method  in  the  study  of, 
384-386 ;  historical  study  of,  387- 
395  ;  its  relations  with  production, 
395-397.  See  also  Judgment  in 
Literature  and  Valuation  of  Litera- 
ture 

Daniel,  S.,  314  n. 

Dante,  31,  411  ;  Divine  Comedy,  415 

Daudet,  A.,  his  stories,  459;  LeNabab, 

214 
David,  Lafnent for  Sa7i  I  and  Jonathan, 

131 
Defoe,    Robinson    Crusoe,    178,    183, 

187 
Democratic  movement,  influence  on 

Hterature,  48 ;   on  the  drama,   318 

n.  2,  332 ;  on  poetry,  145 
De  Quincey,  71,  220 
Dialogue   in  narrative   poetry,    147. 

See  also  Drama  y  Novel,  Story 
Dickens,  26,  172,   182,  242  n.  ;   his 

dialogue,  205  ;  plots,  180  n,  ;  use  of 


milieu,  214 ;  of  nature,  214 ;  of 
prophetic  anticipation,  303  n. ;  of 
poetic  prose,  94  n. ;  Bleak  House, 
184, 186,  187,  188;  ChHstmas  Books, 
451 ;  David  Copperjield,  184,  187, 
190  n.,  214 ;  Dombey  and  Son,  214, 
303  n.  ;  Martin  Chuzzlewit,  184, 
202  n.,  283  n.  ;  Nicholas  Nickleby, 
183,  283  n.  ;  Our  Mutual  Friend, 
"184,  202  n,  ;  Pickwick  Papers,  177 
n.,  183,  184 

Didacticism,  in  the  novel,  223-226 ; 
in  poetry,  122,  125 

Diderot,  61,  253  ;  his  plays,  318  n. 

Dobson,  A.,  on  Tom  Jones,  186 

Domestic  drama,  the,  318  n.  2,  332, 

333 
Donaldson,  J.  W.,  232 

Douglas,    Gavin,    his    treatment  of 

nature,  427 
Dowden,  Prof.,  128,  385  n. ;  on  the 

changes    in    Shakespeare's    style, 

38  n. 

Doyle,  Sir  A.  C,   Sherlock  Holmes, 

450 
Doyle,  Sir  F.,  on  poetry,  84 

Drama,  the,  and  the  novel,  168-170, 
191,  192,  194,  227-230,  242,  251, 
377 ;  dependence  on  conditions  of 
stage-representation,  228-241 ;  as 
criticism  of  life,  336-345  ;  character- 
isation, 246-259 ;  plot,  242-245 ; 
divisions  of  plot,  263-288 :  ex- 
position, 268-273 ;  initial  incident, 
273,  274  ;  rising  action,  274-277  ; 
crisis,  277-279 ;  falling  action,  279- 
281!;  catastrophe,  281-286;  different 
types  of,  306-315  :  Greek,  306-310 ; 
Latin,  310,  311 ;  early  forms  of 
modern,  311-314;  Spanish,  314; 
neo-classic,  316-322 ;  English  ro- 
mantic, 316-322  ;  contemporary, 332- 
335  ;  some  questions  of  construction 
in:  length,  243;  parallehsm,  288-291; 
contrast,  291-297 ;  dramatic  irony, 
297-303  ;  concealment  and  surprise, 
303-306 ;  place  and  functions  of 
soliloquy,  259-263;  unity  and  variety, 
319,  320 ;  the  three  unities,  320-326  ; 
narrative  and  action,  326-330 

Dramatic  objectivity,  135  n.  i,  148, 
149.  336-344 

Dramatic  poetry,  145-149 

Dryden,  68,  70  n.,  181,  270,  325,  329, 


464 


THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 


330,  367  ;  on  tragi-comedy,  32011.  i; 

Alexander  s  Feast,  130;   The  Hind 

and  the  Panther,  46 
Dumas,  A.,  314,  316  ;  as  story-teller, 

181  ;  his  historical  romances,  213 
Dumas,  A.,  the  younger,  339 
Dyer,  John,  Grougar  Hill,  428 

Ecclesiastes,  Book  of,  424  n.  2 

"  Edinburgli  Review,"  360  n.,  385  n. 

Elegiac  metre,  133  n.  i 

Elegy,  the,  131-133 

Eliot,  George,  22,  172,  181 ;  on 
women  novelists,  175  ;  her  charac- 
terisation, 193,  195,  196;  essays 
embodied  in  her  novels,  448  n ; 
Da7iielDeTonda,  186;  Middlemarch, 
186  ;  JRomola,  211,  212,  449 

Elizabethan  drama,  316-322 

Elizabethan  Stage  Society,  239  n.  i 

Emerson,  355 ;  on  poetic  greatness, 
122 

English  literature  and  English  his- 
tory, 47,  48  (see  also  Victorian 
literature) ;  influence  on  French 
literature,  61,  62 ;  on  German 
literature,  62,  63 :  influenced  by 
French  literature,  59-61 ;  by  Ger- 
man literature,  63,  64  ;  by  Italian 
literature,  59 

English  prose,  growth  of,  68-72 

Epic,  the,  138-141 ;  "of growth,"  138- 
140;  "of  art, "140,  141;  mock-epic, 
141 

Epistle,  the,  134 

Epochs  of  literary  history,  45 

Essay,  the,  study  of,  442-448  ;  types 
of,  442-444 ;  general  features  of, 
444-447 ;  personal  factor  in,  447  ; 
style  in,  447,  448 

Esther,  Book  of,  433 

Euripides,  26,  307,  317,  ;  his  pro- 
logues, 269  ;  use  of  chorus,  308  ;  use 
of  the  "  god  out  of  the  machine," 
284  ;  Iphigenia  in  Tauris,  316  n.  i ; 
Suppliants,  321  n. 

Fiction,  see  Novel,  Story 

Fidelity,  as  an  element  of  greatness 

in  literature,  19,  20,  174-178,  198 
Fielding,    198,   202  n.,  280;  Joseph 

Andrews,  183  ;  Tom  Jones,  184,  185 


FitzGerald,  E.,  RubAiyAt  of  Omar 
Khayyam,  160 

France,  Anatole,  on  criticism,  400, 
401,  404 

French  drama,  313,  314,  316-322 
„      literature,  influence  on  Eng- 
lish literature,  59-61,  71  ;  influenced 
by  English  literature,  61,  62 

Freytag,  G. ,  243  n. ,  255, 273, 288,  325 ; 
on  the  pyramidal  structure  of  the 
drama,  267 

Froude,  J.  A.,  29 

Gamett,  R.,  59,  60 

Gautier,  319  n. ;  his  stories,  459 

German  literature,  influence  on 
English  literature,  63,  64 ;  influ- 
enced by  English  literature,  62,  63 

Gervinus,  340 

Gissing,  G.,  on  Dickens,  205 

Gogol,  A  Madman's  Diary,  456 

Goethe,  27, 31, 45, 63,  95  n.,  222,  316 ; 
Goeiz,  64 ;  Iphigenie  in  Tauris, 
316  n.  ;  Ro?/ian  Elegies,  134  n.  ; 
Sorrows  of  Werther,  188 

Goldsmith,  his  treatment  of  nature, 
432,  436,437;  Deserted  Village,  144, 
432,  437  ;  Vicar  of  Wakefield,  187, 
224 

Gorki,  his  stories,  460 

Gosse,  E.,  on  Bunyan,  388 ;  on  the 
Ode,  129 

Gray,  his  treatment  of  nature,  432, 
437 ;  Elegy  in  a  Comitry  Church- 
yard, 133,  160,  432,  437 ;  Pindaric 
Odes,  130,  131 

Greatness  in  literature,  17, 124, 125, 
409,  416-419 

Greek  elegy,  133  n. 
,,    literature,  40,  41 
,,    comedy,  306,  307 
,,    tragedy,  306-310,  345  n.  ;  de- 
pendence on  conditions  of  stage- 
representation,    231-235;    divisions 
of,  266  n.  I ;  chorus  in,  234,  235,  258, 
307-309,  338  ;  use  of  dramatic  irony, 
299,  300  ;  dramatic  unities  in,  235 

Gummere,  Prof.,  127  n.  i 

Haigh,  A.  E.,  335  n.  ;  on  the  chorus 
in  Greek  tragedy,  309  n.  ;  on  the 
fatalism  of  Greek  tragedy,  300  n. 


INDEX 


465 


Hales,  J.  W. ,  60,  64 

Hallam,  10 

Haldvy,  L.,  177 

Harrison,  F.,  90,  91 

Harte,  Bret,   177  ;  Luck  of  Roaring 

Camp,  454 
Hauptmann,  G.,  287 
Hawker,  R.  S.,  Quest  of  the  Sangreal, 

143 
Hawthorne,  172,  182  ;  use  of  nature, 
214 ;   his   stories,  457,  458 ;  Birth 
Mark,  458  ;  Dr  Heidegger's  Experi- 
ment, 454  ;  Great  Stone  Face,  457  ; 
Grey   Champion,  457;  Maypole  of 
Merry  Mount,  457 ;  Minister's  Veil, 
457;  Scarlet  Letter,  211,  212,  214; 
Wakefield,  456,  458 
Hazlitt,  on  poetry,  83 
Hetorew  literature,    41,    42 ;   com- 
munal element  in,  423 
„     l3rrical  poetry,  127, 128, 423 ; 
treatment  of  nature  in,  431 
Hegel,  on  the  significance  of  verse,  94 
Hellenism,  59  n. 
Henneqnin,  333 
Herder,  63 
Herodotus,  414 
Hettner,  6x 
Hexameter,  the,  162 
Heyse,  Paul,  his  stories,  460 
Historical  novel,  211-214 
Historical  study  of  literature,  47, 

48,  53-55 
Holmes,  0.  W.,  104,  107  ;  his  treat- 
ment of  nature,  104,  109  n. 
Homer,  139,  146,  242  n.,  243,  244  n., 
350,  410, 424  n.  2, 438 ;  his  treatment 
of  nature,  431,  432, 433 
Hood,  T.,  Song  of  the  Shirt,  147 
Hooker,  68 

Horace,  Ars  Poetica,  326,  329 
Home,  R.  H.,  94  n. 
Hugo,  v.,   314,   316,  422  ;   Hernani, 

319  n. 
Hume  on  Bunyan,  387,  388  ;  on  taste, 

409,  410 
Hunt,  Leigh,  his  use  of  the  romantic 
couplet,  162  ;  on  metre,  88,  89  ;  on 
poetic  truth,  117;  on  poetry,  83; 
on  poetry  and  science,  99 

2  G 


Humour,  207 

Ibsen,  245,  254,  339,  340 ;  explanatory 
matter  in  published  plays,  230  n.  ; 
method  of  construction,  334;  use 
of  contrast,  293  ;  use  of  the  unities, 
333.  334;  Brand,  149;  A  DolVs 
House,  264,  275  ;  An  Enemy  of  the 
People,  264,  293  ;  Ghosts,  333,  335  ; 
Hedda  Gabler,  333 ;  John  Gabriel 
Borkman,  333 ;  Peer  Gynt,  149 ; 
Pillars  of  Society,  333  ;  Rosmers- 
holm,  293,  335 

Individuality  and  genius,  51 

Irving,  W.,  38  n.  ;  Rip  Van  Winkle, 
453  ;   The  Stout  Gentleman,  456 

Italian  literature,  influence  on  Eng- 
lish literature,  59,  313  n.  2 
„      tragedy,  313,  314 

James,  H.,  on  the  novel,  336,  337 
Jebh,    R.    C,   on    individuality   and 

genius,  51;  on  Greek  elegy,  133  n.  i; 

on  lost  Greek  plays,  307  n. 
Jefifrey,  Lord,  401 ;  as  critic,  383 
Job,  Book  of,  415,  424  n.  2 
Johnson,  27,  387,  392  n.  ;   as  critic, 

368,  376,  377  ;  on  the  essay,  443, 

446;  on  metrical  irregularity,  153  n. ; 

on  poetry,  82  ;  on  Pope,  391 ;  Irene, 

314  n. 
Jones,  H.  A.,  on   character   in   the 

drama,  246  ;  on  dramatic  dialogue, 

204  ;  on  the  use  of  soliloquy  in  the 

drama,  262 
Jonson,  Ben,  314  n.,   328,  396  n. ; 

his    use    of    sex-ambiguity,     305 ; 

Alchemist,  272  ;  Epiccene,  305  ;  Ode 

to  Himself,  130  ;   To  the  Memory  of 

Shakespeare,  132 
Judgment   in   literature,  398-406. 

See  also  Criticism  and  Valuation  of 

literature 

Ealevala,  139,  141 

Keats,  loi,  108;  his  treatment  of 
nature,  108,  427,  428,  429,  430,  431, 
438,  441 ;  use  of  the  romantic  coup- 
let, 162;  Endymion,  160;  Eve  oj 
Si  Agnes,  161 ;  Isabella,  161 ;  La 
Belle  Dame  sans  Merci,  160  ;  Odes, 
130  ;  Ode  to  Atitumn,  441 ;  "  To  one 
who  has  been  long  in  city  pent,"  429 


466 


THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 


Keble,  J.,  on  poetry,  84 

Kingsley,  20,  107  ;  Andromeda^  162  ; 

Sands  of  Dee,  107,  io8,  137 
Kreyssig,  340 

Labiche,  260  n.  2 

Lamb,  g,  10  ;  his  Essays,  446 

Lamentations,  Book  of,  131 

Landor,  114;  on  poetic  greatness, 
122;  Gebir,  114;  Rose  Ay  Inter,  131 

Lang,  A.,  on  criticism,  400,  401 

Latin  drama,  310,  311.  See  also 
Seneca  and  Senecan  drama 
„      literature,  59  n. 

Lawrence,  on  the  influence  of  stage- 
conditions  on  Shakespeare's  art, 
241 

Lee -Hamilton,  E.,  Sea-Shell  Mur- 
murs, 115 

Le  Sage,  Gil  Bias,  183 

Leasing,  59  n.,  62,  63,  316,  376, 
381  n.  ;  on  the  dramatic  unities, 
321  n.,  322;  his  plays,  319  n.  ; 
Laokoon,  437 ;  Nathan  the  Wise, 
296,  297 

Lewes,  G.  H.,  18,  95  n.  ;  on  "authen- 
ticity" in  literature,  19;  on  the 
Spanish  drama,  315  n.  i 

LUlO,  Q.,  61 ;  his  plays,  318  n.  2, 
413  n. 

literature,  defined,  g,  19 ;  and  life, 
11-13,  226 ;  and  science,  358-360, 
371-374;  and  society,  53-55;  and 
the  spirit  of  the  age,  42-45 ;  as  an 
expression  of  personality,  16-19,  20, 
21 ;  as  a  criticism  of  hfe,  16,  17, 
22;  as  a  "mode  of  amplifying 
experience,"  22 ;  as  a  means  of 
culture,  32  ;  as  a  form  of  travel,  41 ; 
as  an  art,  72-81 ;  classification  of, 
14,  15  ;  elements  of,  15,  16  ;  themes 
of,  13,  14;  impulses  behind,  11-13; 
inter-action  of  races  and  epochs  in 
evolution  of,  57-66  ;  historical  study 
of,  39-41.  46,  47,  ;  sincerity  in,  19, 
20 ;  sociological  aspects  of,  46-49 ; 
study  of  technique  of,  73-80.  See 
also  English  literature,  French 
literature,  Greek  literature,  Hebrew 
literature,  Italian  literature,  Latin 
literature.  National  literature, 
Victorian  Age 


Little  Iliad,  the,  244  n. 

Locke,  61 ;  his  Essay  concerning 
Human  Understanding,  442,  444 

Longfellow,  his  versification,  161 ;  on 
the  elegiac  metre,  133  n.  i ;  his 
treatment  of  nature,  438  ;  Evan- 
geline, 144,  162 ;  Golden  Legend, 
149  ;  Song  of  Hiawatha,  141,  162  ; 
The  Warden,  438  ;  Wreck  of  the 
Hesperus,  137 

Longinus,  405,  411 

Lope  de  Vega,  314  ;  on  concealment 
and  surprise  in  the  drama,  315  n. 

Lotze,  H.,  on  character-development 
in  the  novel,  195 

Lowell,  on  philosophy  in  poetry,  123  ; 
his  treatment  of  nature,  429; 
Memorial  Poems,  130 ;  Vision  of 
Sir  Launfal,  429 

Lyly,  his  influence  on  Shakespeare,  75 

Lyricalballads,  two-fold  aim  of,  222  n. 

Lyrical  poetry,  126-128 

L3rtton,  Lord,  his  dialogue,  204 

Lytton,  Edward  Robert,  Earl  of,  see 
Meredith,  Owen 

Macaulay,  62,  181,  357,  361,  368, 
394 ;  his  Essays,  442;  on  Bunyan, 
388 ;  on  poetic  truth,  ii6 ;  on 
poetry,  83  ;  on  Richardson,  190  n.  ; 
Ivry,  147 

Mackail,  J.  W.,  433 

Macpberson,  J.,  influence  of  his 
Ossian  in  Germany,  63 

MabafEy,  Prof.,  316  n.  i 

Malory,  his  use  of  nature,  433 

Marlowe,  314  n.  ;  influence  on 
Shakespeare,  75  ;  Jew  of  Malta, 
238  n.  2  ;  Dr  Faustus,  291 

Marvell,  Upon  Cromwell's  Return 
from  Ireland,  130 

Massinger,  A  New  Way  to  Pay  Old 
Debts,  287 

Maupassant,  his  characterisation, 
450  n.  ;  his  stories,  460 ;  La 
Parure,  453,  454 

Mediaeval  literature,  its  imper- 
sonality, 424,  425 

Mediaeval  revival,  65,  66 

Meditative  poetry,  128,  129 

Mereditb,  G.,  402 


INDEX 


467 


Meredith,  Owen,  Lucile,  145 

M^rim^e,  his  stories,  459 

Metre,  its  place  and  use  in  poetry, 
88-96 ;  its  emotional  effect,  96  ; 
principles  and  varieties  of,  in  Eng- 
lish poetry,  150-157 

Metrical  romance,  the,  142,  143 

Mill,  J.  S.,  on  poetry,  82 ;  on  rhythm, 

93 

Milton,  18,  27,  68,  380,  411 ;  on 
tragedy,  320  n.  i ;  his  scholarship, 
75,  76;  his  treatment  of  nature, 
105,  432  n.  2,  427;  Lycidas,  132, 
401  ;  Paradise  Lost,  75,  76,  140, 
141.  347.361-363.  366-368;  Samson 
Agonistes,  314  n. 

Minor  authors,  historical  interest  of, 
51  ;  value  of,  352 

Mock-epic,  141 

Molifere,  254  ;  L'Avare,  261  n.  ;  Dom 
Garcie,  319 ;  L Ecole  des  Maris, 
296 ;  Le  Misanthrope,  255,  264, 
296 ;  Le  Tartufe,  255,  284 

Monkhouse,  Cosmo,  A  Dead  March, 

Montaigne,   398;    his   Essais,   442, 

444,  446,  447 
Montgomery,  J.,  on  rhythm,  96,  97 
Moore,  Lalla  Rookh,  143 
Morality  in  fiction,  223-226 
Morality  plays,  311,  312 
Morley,  Lord,  61,  364;  on  Voltaire, 

351 ;  on  Wordsworth's  didacticism, 

123 
Morris,  W.,  66,  181  ;   his  treatment 

of  nature,  433;  on  Milton,  363  n.  ; 

Earthly  Paradise,  143  ;   Shameful 

Death,  137 
Moulton,  Prof.,  217  n.,  218,  335  n,  ; 

341.  342,  344.  387  n.  ;  his  principles 

of  inductive  criticism,  357-361.  363. 

364,   370-372 ;   on   Greek  tragedy, 

233.  234.  299 
MUller  on  the  use  of  the  mask  in 

Greek  tragedy,  232 
MtlUer,  Max,  27 
Musset,  A.  de,  19 
Mystery  plays,  311,  312 

National  literature,  a,  defined,  40  ; 
history  of,  41 


Narrative  poetry,  135-145 

Nature,  treatment  of,  in  poetry,  44, 
105,  106,  165,  426-441 ;  in  the 
novel,  214,  215 

Newman,  J.  H. ,  on  style,  35,  36 ; 
C alii  St  a,  212 

Nibelungenlied,  138,  139,  424  n.  2 

Nisard,  420 

Noel,  R,,  on  Ruskin's  doctrine  of  the 
"  pathetic  fallacy,"  io8  n.,  109  n. 

Novel,  the,  and  the  drama,  168-179, 
191,  192,  194,  336,  337;  and  the 
short  story,  449  ;  elements  of,  170- 
172;  subject-matter  of,  172-174; 
length  of,  242  n. ;  fidelity  in,  174- 
179 ;  plot,  179-187 ;  methods  of 
narration,  187-189;  characterisa- 
tion, 189-198  ;  relations  of  plot  and 
character,  199-201  ;  "  motivation," 
201,  202 ;  dialogue,  202  -  205  ; 
humour,  pathos,  and  tragedy,  206- 
209  ;  specialisation  in,  209-211 ;  the 
historical  romance,  211-214 ;  ma- 
terial setting,  214 ;  use  of  nature, 
214,  215  ;  criticism  of  life  in,  219- 
222  ;  truth  in,  219-222  ;  romance 
and  realism  in,  221,  222  ;  morality 
in,  223-225 ;  moral  responsibilites 
of,  225,  226 

Ode,  the,  129-131 

Old  Testament,  see  Hebrew  Litera- 
ture 

Omar  Khayyam,  121 

Ossian,  see  Macpherson 

Ouida,  177  n. 

Painful  emotions,  the,  in  literature, 

208 
Pastoral  poetry,  treatment  of  nature 

in,  427 
Pater,    W,,    on    criticism,   356 ;     on 

greatness  in  literature,    124,   125 ; 

Gaston  de  Latour,  212 
"Pathetic   fallacy,"  the,   107,   108, 

109  n.,  441 
Pathos,  208 
Patmore,  C,  The  Angel  in  the  House, 

145  ;  Faithful  for  Ever,  147 
Pattison,     M.,    394;     on     Milton's 

treatment  of  nature,  105 
Percy,  Bishop,  his  Reliques  of  Ancient 

English  Poetrv,  66,  136  n.  i,  137 


468 


THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATURE 


n.  1,395;  theirinfluenceinGermany, 
63 

Personality  in  literature,  16-19,  S^- 
52,  135  n.,  422-426;  in  the  essay, 
447  ;  in  style,  33-38 

Philosophy  in  poetry,  122-125,  128, 
129 

Pindaric  Ode,  the,  130,  131 

Plato,  219,  231  n.  I 

Plautus,  310,  313  n,  ;  Aulularia,  261 
n. ;  Castellaria,  261  n. ;  Menaechmi, 
288 

Plot,  see  Drama,  Novel,  Story. 

Poe,  E.  A.,  on  poetry,  83,  84 ;  on  the 
story,  459  n.,  451,  455  ;  his  Cask  of 
Amonitllado,  454  ;  Gold  Bug,  456  ; 
Masque  of  the  Red  Death,  456 ; 
Mystery  of  Marie  Roget,  456  ;  Pur- 
loined Letter,  456 

Poetry,  some  definitions  of,  82-85 ; 
elements  of,  85-87 ;  as  a  form  of 
art,  87 ;  and  metre,  88-93 ;  the 
place  of  rhythm  in,  93-97  ;  as  an 
interpretation  of  life,  97-117,  225, 
226  ;  and  science,  99-103,  113-117, 
439,  440;  truth  in,  103-117,  220; 
the  "  pathetic  fallacy  "  in,  107,  108  ; 
use  of  scientific  knowledge  in,  109- 
117  ;  treatment  of  nature  in,  44,  105, 
106,  426-441  ;  revealing  power  of, 
118,  119 ;  ultimate  standard  of 
greatness  in,  120-122  ;  didacticism 
in,  122-125 ;  the  great  divisions  of, 
125,  126 ;  subjective  poetry — the 
simpler  forms  of  lyric,  126-128 ; 
meditative  and  philosophical  poetry, 
128,  129 ;  the  Ode,  129-131  ;  the 
Elegy,  131-133 ;  the  Epistle,  134  ; 
the  Satire,  134  ;  the  Sonnet,  134 ; 
objective  poetry — the  Ballad,  136- 
138  ;  the  Epic,  138-141  ;  the  Metri- 
cal Romance,  142,  143  ;  other  kinds 
of  narrative  poetry,  144,  145 ; 
dramatic  poetry,  145-149  ;  the  form 
of  poetry,  150-163 ;  elements  of 
Enghsh  versification,  150-157;  rime, 
158,  159;  stanzas,  159-162;  blank 
verse,  162 ;  poetic  diction,  163  ;  the 
study  of  poetry,  164,  165 ;  the 
appreciation  of  poetry,  165-X67 

Pollard,  A.  W.,  312  n. 

Pope,  his  treatment  of  nature,  427  ; 
on  style,  34 ;  compared  with 
Tennyson,     43,     44 ;     change    in 


critical    opinion    concerning,    391, 

393 ;    Essay  on   Criticism,  71  n. ; 

Essay  on  Man,  44,  71  n.,  129,  160; 

Rapeof  the  Lock,  44,  141  ;  Dunciad, 

71  n. 
Posnett,  H.  M,,  127  n.  i,  423,  424, 

426 
Price  T.  R.,  on  King  Lear,  279,  288 
Printing,    influence  of,   on    literary 

perceptions,  166,  167 
Prose,  English,  growth  of,  68-72 
Psalms,  the,  128.     See  also  Llebrew 

lyrical  poetry 
Pushkin,  his  stories,  460 
Puttenham,  on  the  personal  element 

in  style,  35  n. 

Racine,  316  ;  Athalie,  316  n.  2 

Raleigh,  Prof.,  224 

Reade,  C,  220 

Reading,    as    personal    intercourse, 

20-22,  352,  354 ;  and  study,  22,  23 
Realism,  221-223 

Relativity,  the,  of  literature,  53-55 
Renaissance,  58,  59 
Renan,  45 
Restoration,  English  prose  of  the, 

68 
Rhythm,  see  Metre 
Richardson,  61 ;    his  method,   188, 

189  n.  I.  ;  Pamela,  202  n. 
Riehl,  Kulturgeschichtliche  Novellen, 

457 
Rime,  158,  159 

Romance  and  realism,  221-223 
Romance,  the  Metrical,  142,  143 
Romantic  drama,  English,  316-322  ; 
Spanish,  314 
„        movement,  63,  65,  66,  143 
,,         prose,  71,  72 
Rossetti,  D.  G.,  66;  his  versification, 

161  ;  Kings  Tragedy,  138  ;  A  Last 

Cotifession,  147;  Sister  Helen,  147; 

Stratton  Water,  137 
Rousseau,  6x,  63 
Royal     Society,     influence    of,    on 

English  prose,  70 
Ruskin,  66,   71,   104,    105;    on  the 

"pathetic  fallacy,"  107,   108;    on 

poetry,    84 ;    on  the    treatment  of 


INDEX 


469 


nature,  by  Holmes,  104 ;  by  Keats, 

108  ;  by  Kingsley,  107 
Russell,  Clarke,  177 
Rutti,  Book  of,  433 
Rutherford,  Dr,  36,  37 

SackvlIIe  and  Norton,  Gorboduc, 
3i3>  327 

Sainte-Beuve,  386  n.  ;  on  taste,  403  ; 
on  the  essay,  444,  445 

Saintsbury,  Prof.,  on  Bunyan,  389- 
390  ;  on  Jeffrey's  criticism,  383 

Sardou,  245 

Satire,  the,  134 

Scherer,  R,  347,  386  n.  ;  on  criticism, 
361-364 

ScMUer,  63,  243  n. ,  316  ;  on  substance 
and  form  in  poetry,  94,  95  ;  The 
Robbers,  413  n. 

Schopenhauer,  28 

Science,  influence  of,  on  English  prose, 
70  ;  and  poetry,  109-113,  439,  440 

Scott,  27,  64,  183 :  anachronisms, 
213 ;  metrical  irregularity,  155 ; 
plots  and  characters,  200  n.  ;  poetic 
style,  378  ;  range  of  characterisa- 
tion, 196-198;  "sources,"  212  n.  ; 
treatment  of  nature,  428,  435 ; 
Waverley  Novels,  179  n.,  180  n.  ; 
Eve  of  St  John,  137 ;  Lay  of  the 
Last  Minstrel,  143,  155  ;  Marmion, 
143;  My  Aunt  Margaret's  Mirror, 
456  ;  Redgauntlet,  190  n, 

Senancour,  loi 

Seneca,  263,  266  n.  i,  310,  314 ;  his 
prologues,  269 

Senecan  drama,  the,  316;  influence 
on  English  tragedy,  313 

Shairp,  J.  C,  on  poetic  truth,  117  ;  on 
the  treatment  of  nature  in  poetry, 
428,  429,  431,  435,  436 

Shakespeare,  26,  29,  65,  66,  loi, 
206,  230,  240,  245,  255,  328,  359, 
365.  371.  372,  377.  378,  411.  415; 
changes  in  critical  opinion  concern- 
ing, 387  ;  and  the  dramatic  unities, 
322,  323,  325,  326  ;  as  an  exponent 
of  his  age,  43 ;  as  a  moralist,  217, 
2i8;  barbaric  incidents  in  his  plays, 
329  n.  2 ;  his  battle  scenes,  329 ; 
changes  in  his  style,  38  n.  ;  chrono- 
logy of  his  plays,  24 ;  his  criticism 


of  life,  340-344 ;  his  characterisa- 
tion,  247,   250;    expositions,   270- 

272  ;  plots,  247  ;  a  follower  of  Lyly 
and  Marlowe,  75  ;  influence  of  stage 
conditions  on  his  art,  235-241 ; 
influence  on  German  writers,  63 ; 
length  of  his  plays,  243  n. ;  reminis- 
cences of  the  older  drama  in  his 
plays,  312  n.  ;  his  romantic  ex- 
cesses, 396  n.  ;  sources  of  his  plays, 
76-78  ;  use  of  action  and  narrative, 
329-331 ;  of  contrast,  292-297 ;  of 
dramatic  irony,  301-303 ;  of  parallel- 
ism, 289-291 ;  of  sex-ambiguity,  300, 
305  ;  of  the  soliloquy,  262,  263  ; 
Antony  and  Cleopatra,  239  n.,  243 
n.,  259,  278,  338  ;  As  You  Like  It, 
283,  285,  291,  297,  300,  305,  312 
n.,  340;  Comedy  of  Errors,  288, 
323  ;  Coriolanus,  239  n.  2  ;  Cym- 
beline,  305 ;  Hamlet,  243  n.,  247, 
249,  250,  253,  264,  270,  275,  312  n., 
327,  342,  343;  Henry  IV.,  286, 
326;  Henry  V. ,  264  n.,  286,  297,  298, 
326  n.  I ;  Henry  VIII.,  243  n.  ; 
Julius  CcBsar,  258,  267,  273,  278, 
279,  299,  325  ;  King  John,  256,  257, 
339 ;  King  Lear,  243  n.,  267  n.  i, 

273  n.,  279,  281,  287,  288,  289,  319, 
325,  329  n.  2,  344  ;  Love's  Labours 
Lost,  278,  338;  Macbeth,  243  n., 
247,  248,  249,  253,  264,  274,  278, 
279.  287,  301-303,  329,  330,  331, 
334,  335  n.  ;  Merchant  of  Venice, 
247,  257,  258,  274,  27s,  283,  288, 
305 ;    Merry    Wives  of    Windsor, 

275,  286 ;  Midsummer  Night's 
Dream,  290,  291,  296,  297,  312  n.  ; 
Much  Ado  abotit  Nothing,  250  n.  2, 

276,  281,  283,  285,  289,  293,  325  ; 
Othello,  267,  272,  273,  279,  293, 
301  ;  Richard  II. ,  299  ;  Richard 
III,,  270,  273  ;  Romeo  and  Juliet, 
243  n.,  274,  281,  283,  292,  293,  340  ; 
Tempest,  264  n.,  270,  283,  323,  334 
n.  ;  Titus  Ajtdro?iicus,  329  n.  2 ; 
Twelfth  Night,  300,  305,  312  n.  ; 
Tvjo  Gentlemen  of  Verona,  285, 
305  ;  Winter's  Tale,  305,  323,  325, 
334  n. 

Sharp,  W.,  134  n.  2 

Shelley,  42  ;  on  poetry,  83  ;  bis  treat- 
ment of  nature,  440;  Adonais, 
132  ;  Prometheus  Unbound,  314  n.  ; 
Queen  Mab,  162  ;    West  Wind,  13c 

Sheridan,  The  Critic,  271 


470 


THE  STUDY  OF  LITERATUKE 


Sidney,  Sir  P. ,  on  the  drama,  314 ; 

on  Seneca,  313  n.  ;  on  metre,  88 
Sincerity  in  literature,  19,  20,   174- 

178,  198 
Smollett,    Humphrey   Clinker,    188; 

Roderick  Rajidom,  183 
Social  aspects  of  literature,  53-55 
Sonnet,  the,  134 
Sophocles,    26,     307 ;      use    of    the 

chorus,  308,  309;  of  contrast,  292, 

295  ;  of  dramatic  irony,  298,  300  ; 

Ajax,  235  n.  3 ;  Antigone,  264,  281, 

295,  296,  310  n.  ;  CEdipus  iheKing, 

253,   264,   300,  303  n.,  334,   335  ; 

Trachinian  Maidens,  321  n. 
Southey,  The  Scholar,  x6o)  Thalaba, 

162 
Spanish  drama,  314,  315  ;  burlesque 

parallelism  in,  290,  291 
Spectator,  the,  44 ;   its  part  in  the 

development  of  the  novel,  448  n. 
Spencer,  H.,  96,  370  n.,  381  n.  ;  his 

Essays,    442,    443 ;      on    scientific 

wonder,  no,  in 
Spenser,    65,    66 ;    Asirophel,    132 ; 

Epithalamioriy  130  ;  Faery  Queene, 

46,  142,  143 

Spenserian  revival,  the,  66, 394,  395 
stanza,  the,  160,  161 

Sprat,  70  n. 

Stage,  Elizabethan,  influence  on  the 
drama,  235-241 

Stage,  Greek,  influence  on  the  drama, 
231-235 

Stanzas  in  English  poetry,  159-162 

Stedman,    E.    C,    on    poetry 
science,  loi,  102 

Stephen,  Sir  L.,  on  Richardson, 
189  n. 

Stevenson,  R.  L.,  177;  his  stories, 
458,  459;  A  Child's  Garden  of 
Verses,  147 ;  Bottle  Imp,  457 ; 
Island  Night's  Entertaitimenis,  456  ; 
Merry  Men,  458,  459  ;  New 
Arabian  Nights,  450  ;  Olalla,  457  ; 
Sieur  de  Maletroit's  Door,  454 

Story,  Short,  the,  and  the  novel,  449, 
450>  459 ;  the  study  of,  449-460 ; 
definitions  of,  451,  452  ;  principles 
of  composition,  452-459  ;  dialogue 
in,  456  ;  description  in,  456 ;  plot  in, 
452,  456 ;  great  masters  of,  459,  460 


Story-telling,  the  gift  of,  180-182 
Stowe,  H.  B.,  269 
Strindberg,  his  Svenska  Oden,  457 
Struggle  for  existence,  in  literature 

412-416 
Style,  as  an  index  of  personality,  33- 

38 ;    historical  changes  in,   66-72 ; 

qualities  of,  79,  80 ;  technical  study 

of,  78-80 
Sudermann,  H,,  245 
Survival  of  the  fittest,  in  literature, 

412-416 
Swan  Theatre,  the,  236,  237 
Swift,  387  ;  Gulliver's  Travels,  71  n. 
Swinburne,   Atalanta    in   Calydon, 

314  n.  ;  Erechtheus,  314  n.  ;   Tris- 
tram of  Lyonesse,  143 
Symonds,  J.  A. ,  on  the  early  English 

drama,  311 ;  on  poetry  as  a  criticism 

of  life,  225,  226 
S3anon8,  A. ,  on  Coleridge  as  a  critic, 

377 
Sympathy,  importance  of  in  reading, 

31-33 

Taine,  48 ;  his  formula  of  literary 
evolution,  49-53 

Tasso,  Gerusalemtne  Liberata,  140 

Taste,  training  of,  403-406,  417-421 

Temple,  Sir  W.,  68 

Tennyson,  26,  27,  271, 281,  S82,  449  ; 
compared  with  Pope,  43,  44  ;  on 
art  for  art's  sake,  120  n.  1  ;  his 
treatment  of  nature,  106,  109- 
III,  427,  428,  432  n.  I,  433,  434, 
436..  .438,  439  ;  use  of  prophetic 
anticipation,  303  n.  ;  use  of  science, 
no,  in  ;  his  versification,  154- 
157  ;  "  Break,  break,  break,"  131  ; 
Brook,  438  ;  The  Daisy,  436  ;  Dora, 
144 ;  English  Idyls,  144 ;  Enoch 
Arden,  144,  303  n.,  432  n.  i  ;  First 
Quarrel,  147 ;  Holy  Grail,  147 ; 
Idylls  of  the  King,  143,  434 ;  In 
Memoriam,  44,  in,  132,  160,  436  ; 
Maud,  109,  no,  147,  159  ;  Ode  on 
the  Death  of  the  Duke  of  Welliftgton, 
130  ;  Palace  of  Art,  129  ;  Princess, 
44 ;  The  Revenge,  138,  147 ;  St 
Simeon  Stylites,  149  ;  Two  Voices, 
160  ;  Vastness,  154,  157,  439 ;  The 
Vision  of  Sin,  129 


INDEX 


471 


Terence,  310,  313  n. 

Thackeray,  26,  172,  181,  242  n. ;  on 
characterisation,  193  ;  his  method 
of  characterisation,  193  ;  his  plots, 
183,  184  n.,  185  J  essays  incorpor- 
ated in  his  novels,  448  n.  ;  Esmond, 
187 ;  The  Newcomes,  185 ;  Pen- 
dennis,  183,  184 ;  Vanity  Fair, 
185,  186,  187 

Theatre,  Greek,  231-235;  Elizabethan, 
235-241 

Thomson,  J.  (I.),  nature  in  his  Seasons, 
436 

Thomson,  J.  {II.),  City  of  Dreadful 
Ni^ht,  439 

Time-spirit,  the,  in  literature,  42-45 

Tolman,  A.  H.,  249,  250 

Tolstoi,  181;  his  stories,  457,  460; 
Anna  Karinina,  186,  187,  449 ; 
Polushka,  457 

Tragedy,  see  Drama,  Greek  Tragedy 

Tragic  emotions,  the,  in  literature, 
208,  209 

Trollope,  A.,  177,  189;  his  plots, 
184  n. 

Truth,  in  fiction,  219-221 ;  in  poetry, 
103-108,  113-117,  220 

Turgenev,  19  ;  his  plots,  185 

Udall,  N.,  Roister  Doister,  312,  313 
Unities,  the  dramatic,  320-326 
Unity  and  variety  in  the  drama, 
319,  320 

Valuation  of  literature,  398-421 
Veitch,  Prof.,  436 
Versification,  see  Metre 
Victorian  Age,  the,  and  its  literature, 

48,  49.  52.  53 
Virgil,  his  treatment  of  nature,  432, 

435;    ^neid,   140,    141,   146,   366, 

367,  368   424  n,  2 


Voltaire,  61,  316,  351,  352,  361,  362  ; 
on  tragedy,  318 

Waller,  70  n. 

Walpole,  H.,  66 

Walther  von  der  Vogelwelde,  his 

use  of  nature,  429 

Ward,  A.  W.,  on  Byron's  praise  of 
Pope,  393  ;  on  Pope,  394 

Warton,  J.,  on  pcctry,  392 ;  on  Pope, 
391.  39 

Warton,  T.,  Observations  on  the  Faery 
Queene,  395 

Watson,  W.,  349;  his  treatment  of 
nature,  436,  438,  441 ;  use  of  the 
"  Burns  "  stanza,  161;  Hymn  to  the 
Sea,  134  n, ;  Ode  to  Auturnn,  441 ; 
Wordsworth's  Grave,  132,  436 

Watts-Dunton,  T.,  on  Chatterton's 
versification,  155  n. ;  on  poetry,  84  ; 
on  the  sonnet,  134  n.  2 

Wendell,  B.  41,  249 

Wetzschel,  233,  235  n.  2 

Whateley,  on  poetry  and  verse,  90 

Whitman,  Walt,  his  theory  and 
practice  of  poetry,  397 

Whittier,  In  Remembrance  0  Joseph 
Sturge,  132 

Wilson,  J.,  71 

Wordsworth,  loi,  114 ;  his  didac- 
ticism, 123,  124 ;  his  theory  and 
practice  of  poetry,  397 ;  his  trea 
ment  of  nature,  427,  428,  430,  436 
440 ;  his  use  of  the  ' '  Burns  "  stanza 
161 ;  on  poetry,  83;  on  the  subjects 
of  poetry,  112  ;  Lines  written  above 
Tintern  Abbey,  430  ;  Michael,  144  ; 
Ode  on  the  Intimations  of  Immor- 
tality, 115  n.,  130,  159;  The  Pre- 
lude, 430  n.  I ;  Yarrow  Poems,  436 

Young,  on  Bunyan,  387 

Zola,  209 


6\ 


f*^^N  TO  mt^^  ^^^ 

lOANDCPT  ^°"°^^° 


SEP 


ITER-LIBRARY 

11983 


SEC.CIR. 


m 


<^^'\tri^rn%. 


Jjj^  i.-.- 


(Cr7'95sl0)47t)Jt5 


rT„;^*».eraI  Library 


kelc. 


U.C,  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


CD3S3DlSSb 


'■•i  *■;■.'. 


\lLL^ 


