This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


-f^:x^.  í 


f- 


HARVARD  COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 


FROM  THE  FUND  OP 

CHARLES   MINOT 

CLASS  OP  t8z8 


;ì^' 


it  i'^^ii.  ^  Ì 


HARVARD  COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 


FROM  THE  FUND  OF 

CHARLES  MINOT 

CLASS  OF  182S 


*      « 


9 


lOLO  MANUSCRIPTS. 


A  SELECTION  OP 


ANCIENT    WELSH 


IN   PROSE  AND  TERSE,  FROM  THE  OOLLEOTION  MADE  BY  THE  LATE 

EDWARD  jpUIAMR.JsIo  JAorgantOg.  FOR  THE  PURPOSE  OP 

FORMíNa   A   CONTINUATION   OP   THE    MYPYRIAN 

AUOHAIOLOGY;    AND   SUBSEQUENTLY 

PROPOSED  AS  MATERIALS  FOR 

A  NEW  HISTORY  OP 

WALES: 


WITH  ENGLISH  TRANSLATIONS  AND  NOTES, 

BY  HIS  SON,  THE  UTE  TALTESIN_W1LLIAMS,  (AB  lOLO.) 

OP  MERTUYR  TYDFIL. 


PUnLlSHED  FOR 

^ììt  Wltiiì)  M^äf^  ŵoctttt?. 


LLANDOVERY: 

PRINTED    AND    PUBLISHED    BY    WILLIAM    REF^ ;    SOLD    ALSO    BY 

LONÍJMAN  AND  CO.,  D.  WILLIAMS,  AND  IL  HUGHES,  LONDON; 

MORGAN,  &  REES  &  SON,  ABERGAVENNY. 

MDCCCXLVIir. 


«OES  Y  BYD  I'R  lAITH  GYMRAEG." 


^ocítt^  for  tbt  ^publication  of  9immt  Wltisif) 
ilSanucícrtptö. 

^atroncas, 

HER  MOST  GRACIOUS  MAJESTY  QUEEN  VICTORIA.' 

Patnmi?cti  also  bp 

ms  RQYAL  HIOnNESS  THE  PRINCE  ALBERT. 

HER  ROYAL  HIGHNESS  THE  DUCHESS  OF  KENT. 

HIS    IMPERIAL    HIGHNESS   THE   CZAREVECH    THE   HEREDITARY    GRAND    DUKE 

ALEXANDER  OF  RUSSIA. 

^resilient. 

THE  RIGHT  HONOURABLE  THE  EARL  OF  POWIS. 

ÎJíce^príÄÍtíent». 

THE  MOST  HONOURABLE  THE  MARQUESS  OF  BUTE. 
His  Grace  The  Dukk  of  Bkaufobt,  K,G.  The  Hon.  Gkorob  Ricb  Trkvob,  M.P. 

His  «race  The  Dukb  of  Nkwca8Ti.b  K.G.  The  Hon.  E.  Llovd  Mobtyi»,  M.P. 

His  Grace  The  Dukk  of  Suthkbland.  R.  J.  Blrwit,  Esq.  M.P.,  of  Llantamam  Abhcy. 

The  Most  Hon.  The  MABquKss  of  Camdbn.         Bkbiah  Botfikld,  Esq.  M.P.,  of  Norton  Hall. 
The  Most  Hon.  The  Mabqobm  of  Anolbsky.     Sib  Stbphkn  R.  Gltnnb,  Bart.  M.P. 
The  Right  Hon.  The  Eabl  of  Shbbwbbuby.        W.  Obxibby  Gobs,  Esq.  M.P.,  of  Porkington. 
The  Right  Hon.  The  Eabl  of  Dunbaybn.  Sib  J.  J.  Gubot,  Bart.  M.P.,  of  Dowlais. 

The  Right  Hon.  The  Earl  Cawbor,  F.R.S.         Howbl  Gwtn,  Esq.  M.P.,  of  Baglan. 
The  Right  Roy.  The  Lobd  Bishop  of  St.  Davio's.  Sib  B.  Hall,  Bart.  M.P.,  of  Llanover. 
The  Right  Hon.  Lobd  Dyitbyob.  J.  H.  Yiyian.  Esq.  M.P.,  of  Singleton. 

The  Right  Hon.  Lobd  Cabbbby.  Sib  R.  B.  P.  Piiilipps.  Bart.  M.P.,  of  Picton  Castle. 

The  Right  Hon.  Lobd  Moervif.  Sib  Chablks  Mokoan,  Bart.,  of  Tredegar. 

The  Right  Hon.  Lobd  Yiscovkt  Adabb*  M.P.     Octayius  Moroan,  Esq.  M.P.,  of  Tred^ar. 
The  Right  Hon.  Lobd  Ashlby.  M.P.  Sib  J.  Walmblby.  of  Wavertree  Hall. 

The  Right  Hon.  Cokskillbb  Jookoybkv.  Colonbl  Wood,  of  Littleton.  Middlesex. 

The  Right  Hon.  J.  Nicholl,  M.P.  D.C.L.  W.  A.  Williams.  Esq.,  of  Llangiby  Castle. 

His  Excellency  The  Chkyalibb  BimsBN,  Prussian  Minister  Plenipotcntiûy. 

His  Excellency  Moms.  Yam  dbb  Wbyxb,  Belgian  Minister  Plenipotentiaiy. 

ÜPommittee. 

Sir  Benjamhi  Hall,  Bart.  M.P.,  of  Llanover,  Monmouthshire,  Chairman. 
Octavius Morgan, Esq.  M.P.F.R.S.F.G.S.Trodci?ar.  W.wniiams  E»q.,of  Abcrpcrgwm.Glamorganshlre 
J.  Bruce  Prj'cc,  Esq.,  of  DyfFryn,  Glaniorgannliire.  Rev.  J.  Evans,  Llanover  Vicarage,  Monmouthshire 

Pilots  anti  Collators  of  J^anuscripts. 

sir  Samuel  R.  Me>Tick,  K.Il.LL.I».  F.S.A.,  of  Goodrich  Court.  Herefordshire. 
*  Kov.W,  J.  Ree»,  M.A.F.8.A.ra8cob.Ra<lnor«hire    Aneurin  Owen,  E^íq.  Egr>'n.  Denbigh. 
Rev.  EvBnEvttn»,(leiianGlangtMrionydd)  Chester.  ♦Rev.  T.  l*rico  (Camhuanawc,)  Crickhowel. 
♦  Rev.  John  Jone»,  M.A.  (Tegid.)  Nevcm. 
Those  marked  thtu  *  are  nlito  Mctnht-ra  of  the  Committee. 

CToncsponUing  j|¥lembers. 

WALES. 
Hooker,  T.  W.,  Esq.,  of  Velindre.  Cardiff.  Lloyd,  J.,  Esq.  of  Dinas,  Breoonshire. 

('«nybeare.The  Very  Rev. W.l).,  Dean  of  Llandaff.  Parry.  Rev.  H.,  M.A.Llamisa.  Flintshire. 
Ihivioti,  Rev.  Walter,  M.A..  Llanrhaiadr.  Salunbury,  Rev.  Sir  Charles,  Bart,  of  Llanwem. 

nnii^Tn,  L.  W.,  EîMi.  K.R.8.  &c.,  of  Sketty  Hall.    Traheme,  Rev.  J.  M.,  M.A.  F.R.8.  &c.  of  Coed- 
FrancÌH.  G.  Grant,  Ehq.  F.S.A.  dec.  8wan.sea.         Williamsi  Miss,  of  Aberpergwm,  [riglan. 

(iucät.  Lady  Charh>ttc,  Dowlaist  (Glamorganshire.  Williams,  Miss  .lane,  of  AberpcnrwTn. 
Hall.  Ladv,  (Gwcnynon  (îwcnt,)  of  Llanover.  Williams,  ThcRev.H.,  M.A.  (hanccllorof  Llandaff 

Johneit,  A'rthur  Jaiiifs,  Esq.  (Jarthmyl.  Williams,  Venerable  Archdeacon,  M.A.  F.R.S.E. 

Johnest  .1..  E»q.  of  lK>lau<'Othi.  Carmarthenshire.       &o.  Warden  of  the  Welsh  Inhtitution, Llandovery, 
l^wcllin.  The  Very  Rev.  Lie.  D.C.L.  Lampeter.     Williams,  Rev.  John,  M.A.  Ac,  of  Ncrouis. 
Lewis,  D.  Jones,  Esq.  of  Gilfach,  Carmarthenshire.  Williams,  Rev.  R.,  M.A.,  Ysceifiog,  Flintshire. 

ENQI.AND,   &c. 
Clongh,  Rev.  A.  B.  B.D.  F.S.A.  Jes.  Coll.  Oxford.     Petit,  L.  II.,  Esq.,  F.R.S.  F.S.A.  &c.  London. 
Evan!».  Rev.  R.  W.,  M.A.  Trin.  Coll.  Cambridge.  Philipps,  Sir  T-  Bart.  F.R.S.  F.S.A. ,  of  Middle 
Hughes,  John,  Esq.  inner  Temple.  London.  Hill. 

Hen^ford,  The  Very  Rev.  the  Dt»un  of  Prichard,  J.C.  M.D.  F.R.S.  M.R.T.A.  Correspond- 

JamcH,  Itev.  !>..  Kirkdale,  Liverpool.  ing  Member  of  the  Institute  of  France,  Hristol. 

Lb)>d.  Rev.  H.  R.  M.A.  South  lienflect.  Turner,  Sharon.  Es<|.  F.S.A.  R.A.S.L.  &c. London. 

Mai-kenzie,  J.  Whitefisml,  Es<i.W.S.  Edinburgh.  Wakeman,  T.  Esq.,  of  (îniig.  Monmíiuthshire. 
Parry,  J.  Esq.  (Bardd  Alaw,)  London.  William»,  P.  B.,  Esq.  India  Board,  London. 

Sfcrctaries. 

Ho.norart  Sbcrbtart. — Rev.  John  Evans,  Llanover  Vicarage.  Abergavenny. 
Ho.'xoRART  FoRKiGN  Skcrktary.— -Monsicur  Rio,  of  Llanarth,  Monmouthshire. 

treasurer. 

Phillip  Jones,  Esq.  of  Llanarth  Court,  Monmouthshire. 

13ankcrs. 

Messfy.  William-.  DeiuHin,  and  Co.  Tendon.         Messrs.  Jones,  Loyd.  and  Co.  London. 
The  Monmouthshire    and  Ghunoganshlro  Bank,  Abergavenny. 


€tít  mtUít)  0ẅ»*  Sfotitt^, 

Has  been  fonned  for  the  purpose  of  transcribing  and  printing  the  more  important  of  the 
numerous  unpublished  Bardie  and  Historieal  Remains  of  Wales,  still  extant  in  the 
Principality  and  other  parts  of  the  world,  that  have  hitherto  been  allowed  to  continue  in 
a  state  of  obscurity,  without  any  effective  messures  being  adopted  to  lay  their  contents 
before  the  public,  and  secure  them  from  the  various  accidents  to  which  they  are  liable. 
In  addition  to  the  general  decay  that,  from  their  perishable  nature,  these  venerable  relics 
have  been  for  ages  undergoing,  whole  collections  have,  within  a  short  space  of  time,  been 
destroyed  by  fire;  and  of  those  MSS.  dispersed  throughout  the  country,  numbers  known  to 
have  existed  a  few  years  ago,  are  now  no  where  to  be  found. 

Besides  the  interest  which  these  ancient  documents  possess,  as  objects  of  antiquarian 
curionty,  and  as  contributing  to  the  elucidation  of  British  Hbtory,  they  have  a  claim  to 
attention  of  a  far  more  general  character,  as  being  intimately  connected  with  the  origin 
and  progress  of  modem  European  Literature;  for  it  is  among  the  legends  and  traditions  of 
the  Welsh  that  many  of  the  materials  are  to  be  found,  which  supplied  the  nations  of  the 
Ck>ntinent  with  their  earliest  subjects  of  compositbn,  and  produced  those  highly  imagina- 
tive worin  that  continue  to  exercise  so  powerful  an  influence  to  the  present  day. 

A  great  mass  of  Historical  information,  relating  to  the  thirteenth,  fourteenth,  and 
ftfteenth  centuries^  is  contained  in  the  unpublished  Poetry  of  Wales ;  from  which  an  in- 
timate acquaintance  with  the  state  of  society  during  those  periods  may  be  obtained ;  the 
Welsh  Bards  being  the  Chroniclers  of  the  times  in  which  they  lived,  and  their  Poems 
chiefly  addressed  to  the  leading  men  of  the  day.  Besides  Poetry,  there  is  still  existing 
unpublished  a  large  collection  of  Prose,  both  Historical  and  Legendary. 

The  first  Work  that  engaged  the  attention  of  the  Committee,  is  the  Libbk  Landavensis, 
or  LlyfbTeilo,  comprising  nearly  700  Royal  8vo.  pages;  gratuitously  edited  and  trans- 
lated by  the  Rev.  W.  J.  Bees,  M.A.  F.S.A.  &c.  has  been  for  some  time  before  the 
PubUo. 

The  second  Work,  issued  by  the  Society,  The  Heraldic  Visitation  of  Wales  and 
m  Mabches,  by  Lewys  Dwn n.  Deputy  Herald  at  Arms,  Temp.  Elisabeth,  was  put  into 
press  at  the  joint  risk  of  the  Society  and  the  Publisher,  and  was  completed  in  two 
large  Imperial  Quarto  Volumes,  under  the  gratuitous  and  able  superintendance  of  its 
indefktigable  Editor,  Sib  Samuel  Rush  Mbtbick,  K.H.  LLD.  F.8.A.  &o. 

The  present  Volume  of  Selections  from  the  MSS.  of  the  late  Iolo  Mobganwg,  was 
detained  ÌJj  the  serious  illness  and  subsequent  death  of  its  late  Editor,  Ab  Iolo.  It  is 
to  be  immediately  followed  by  the  next  Work: 

The  Lives  of  the  Bbitish  Saiitis,  from  Ancient  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum,  and 
elsewhere,  gratuitously  prepared  for  the  Press  by  the  Editor  of  the  Libeb  Landavensis, 
the  Rev.  W.  Jenkins  Rees,  M.A.  F.S.A,  &c. 

TkefoUawmg  MS8,  June  miao  bttn  recommended /or  PubUcatUm, 

The  Mbddtoon  Mtddfai,  or  a  Compendium  of  the  Medical  Practice  of  the  celebrated 
Bhiwallon  and  his  Sons,  Cadwgan,  Ghroflÿdd,  and  Einion,  of  Myddiai,  in  Caermarthenshire, 
Phjâciaiis  to  Rhys  Qiyg,  lord  of  Dynevor  and  Ystrad  Towy,  son  of  Grufiÿdd  ap  Rhys, 
the  last  Prince  of  Wale^  about  the  year  1230. 

Lltfe  Coch  Llanblwt,  or  the  Red  Book  of  St  As^h. 

Chboniclbb  of  Wales,  in  the  Lambeth  LIteary. 

Chbonicub  of  Wales,  hi  the  Thirteenth  Cefituiy,  compiled  in  the  Abbey  of  StraU 
Florida;  in  the  Record  Office. 

The  inedited  matter  of  the  Lltfb  Coch  o  Heboest,  in  the  Library  of  Jesus  College, 
Oxford. 

RBonrmuM  Pbiobatus  de  Bbecknock. 

AjiasNT  Bboobds  frt>m  the  time  of  Edward  the  HI.  belonging  to  the  Manor  Court 
of  Ruthin. 

The  Ancient  Welsh  Obammab  made  by  Edetbn  Dafod  Aur,  at  the  injunction  and 
desire  of  Uywelyn  ap  Gruflÿdd  (prince  of  Wales  from  1254  to  12S2,)  Kh^-%  Vychan,  lord 
of  Dynevor  and  Ystrad  Towy;  and  Morgan  Vychan,  lord  paramount  of  Morgan wg. 

And  others  of  great  interest. 


PREFACE. 


The  Collection  from  which  the  MSS.  contained  in  this 
Volume  were  selected,  was  made  about  the  beginning  of 
the  present  century,  by  Edward  Williams  the  Bard,  better 
known  as  lolo  Morganwg,  with  the  intention  of  forming 
a  continuation  of  the  Mjrfyrian  Archaiology,  and  subse- 
quently proposed  as  materials  for  a  History  of  Wales. 
On  his  death,  which  took  place  in  1827,  at  the  advanced 
age  of  82,  his  MS.  Collection  became  the  property  of  his 
son,  the  late  Taliesin  Williams,  known  asTaliesin  ab  lolo, 
or  Ab  lolo;  who,  as  one  of  the  Editors  of  the  Welsh 
MSS.  Society,  undertook  to  make  a  Selection  from  the 
Manuscripts,  and  to  conduct  it  through  the  press,  with  En- 
glish Translations,  and  Explanatory  Notes.  Having  pro- 
ceeded with  the  printing  of  the  Work  as  far  as  page  494, 
his  editorial  labours  were  arrested  by  illness,  which  termi- 
nated in  his  death  on  February  16th,  1847,  at  the  age  of  59. 
In  consequence  of  this  much  lamented  event,  the  So- 
ciety found  it  necessary  to  engage  the  assistance  of  other 
liands,  in  order  to  complete  the  publication.  And  those 
Editors,  in  submitting  the  present  Volume  to  the  public, 
wisli  to  have  it  understood,  that  they  do  not  concur 
with  tlieir  predecessor  in  the  whole  of  the  opinions  he  has 
advanced  in  his  Notes.  For  instance,  his  remarks  on 
Welsh  Prosody  do  not  appear  to  be  altogether  well 
founded,  as  they  believe  that  the  resemblance  suggested 
by  Dr.  Davies,  between  the  Welsh  and  Latin  Metros,  can- 
not be  satisfactorily  traced  beyond  the  limits  placed  by 
tliat  learned  Anticiuary,  which  was  merely  observable  witli 
ivganl  to  the  Latin  Poetry  of  tlie  middle  ages,  witliout  ro- 
feninir  to  thai  Classic  orimii. 


vi  PREFACE. 

Also,  in  his  interpretation  oi  Deitwj/y  i.  e.  Peitwy^  (p.  419.) 
the  original  country  of  the  Picts,  they  dissent  from  Ab 
lolo,  as  he  supposes  the  word  to  refer  to  Batavia  or  Poitou ; 
whereas  the  j)resent  Editors  think  it  more  likely  to  mean 
Pidavia  in  Scotland,  a  name  well  known  in  the  middle 
ages. 

Again,  the  Editors  differ  with  their  predecessor  on  the 
subject  of  Seimlchral  Cams  or  Tumuli,  as  denoting  the 
place  of  burial  of  malefactors  (p.  420.)  as  numerous  i)roofs 
can  be  procured  of  the  Cam  being  amongst  the  Ancient 
Britons  a  mark  of  honourable  sepulture. 

The  Editors  cannot  conclude  these  introductory  obser- 
vations, without  adverting  to  certain  literal  errors  which 
exist  in  the  Welsh  text,  and  which  must  of  necessity  at- 
tract the  notice  of  the  Welsh  reader,  and  appear  as  tyi)o- 
graphical  inaccuraces;  but  they  consider  it  their  duty 
to  exonerate  the  j)ress,  and  to  state  that  these  apparent 
errors  are  entirely  attributable  to  the  scrupulous  fidelity  of 
Ab  lolo,  who  invariably  inserted  every  thing  as  it  existed 
in  the  Manuscript  he  transcribed,  without  altering  a  single 
touch  of  the  pen,  however  obvious  the  clerical  and  acci- 
dental character  of  the  error  might  be.  The  Fac  Similes 
(at  pp.  90,  288,)  shew  the  character  of  the  hand-writing  of 
two  of  the  oldest  MSS.  contained  in  this  Voliune. 

The  Editors  desire  on,  behalf  of  the  Committee,  to 
return  their  acknowledgements  to  Mr.  Mathew  Donne,  for 
the  service  he  has  rendered,  in  furnishing  the  rubbings  and 
tracings  of  the  Monumental  Crosses,  &c.  at  Llanilltyd 
Vawr ;  from  which  the  reduced  Fac  Similes  inserted  in  the 
present  Work  have  been  taken. 


CONTENTS. 


HlSTOliY. 


Tiìo  first  Xumber  of  Page  denotes  whcro  the  Original,  and  the  »c.?oud,  where  the 
Translation  mav  he  found. 


TnR  Genealogy  of  lestyn  np  Gwrgan    - 
The  Genealogy  of  the  Kings  of  Glamorgan 
The  Kings  of  Glywysyg  -  -  . 

lestyn  np  G^iTgan         -  -  -  - 

The  Principality  of  lest^ni  ap  GwTgan  - 
The  CliUdren  of  lestyn  ap  Gwi^an 
The  Ltncn;;*^  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk 
The  Four  Principal  Courts  of  Glamorgan 
The  Royal  Lineage  of  Coctty    -  -  - 

Chronogical  Stanzas      -  -  -  - 

Khodri  the  Great's  Constitution  of  Sovereignty 
The  Five  Royal  Trihes  of  Wales 
The  Constituent  Estates  of  Sovereignty 
The  Anns  of  the  Chieftains  of  Glamorgan 
Periods  of  Onil  Tradition  and  Clironology 
Chronoliig\'  of  Remarkable  Occurrences 
Roll  of  Tradition  and  ChnniolDgy 
The  Voice  Conventional  of  the  Bards    - 
Mottos  of  the  Ikirdic  Chairs      -  .  - 

The  Chair  of  Neath       .  -  -  . 

Tributes  -  -  .  .  - 

Historical  Notices  -  .  -  - 

llistorical  Notices  -  .  -  - 

Short  Notices.— St.  Patric 

CunciWa  Wlcdig 

-  --     Urien  Rhoged 

Taliesin  .  _  - 

Pedii^ree  of  Taliesin        -  -  .  . 

I 'etli;:ree  of  Taliesin — anotlicr    - 


Page. 

Page 

3 

331 

12 

3Ô7 

18 

384 

20 

387 

23 

391 

24 

303 

2Í5 

396 

2(J 

308 

2ÍÎ 

308 

27 

402 

r,i) 

403 

;>2 

400 

ÎV2 

407 

;J4 

400 

3(j 

412 

40 

410 

4.5 

424 

40 

4.30 

(Î2 

448 

0.3 

448 

0.3 

448 

04 

4o0 

(Î7 

4.53 

00 

4.55 

(Î0 

4.56 

70 

4Ô7 

71 

45» 

72 

4.50 

7:: 

JíîO 

viii  CONTENTS. 

Maelgwn  Gwynedd       -  -  - 

Benwyll  -  -  -  - 

Benwyll — another         -  -  - 

Benwyll — also  -  -  -  - 

Maelgyn  Hir     -  -  -  - 

Talhaiarn  _  .  -  - 

Taliesin  -  .  .  - 

The  Three  Irish  Invasions 
The  Nine  Stocks  of  Baptismal  Bards    - 
Talhaiam's  Prayer,  or  the  Gorsedd  Prayer 
The  Gorsedd  Prayer — another  form 
The  Gorsedd  Prayer — another  - 
The  same — another       -  -  - 

The  Prediction  of  Peredur 
The  same  Prediction  by  Myrddin  Emrys 
Don  King  of  Lochlyn   ... 

Serigi 

Gwynedd  .... 

Saint  David       -  .  -  - 

Maen  Cetti        -  -  -  . 

Dwynwen         -  -  -  - 

Brynach  Wyddel  -  -  - 

The  Milk-White  Milch  Cow    - 
Illusion  and  Phantasm  -  -  . 

The  Principal  Territories  of  Britain 
The  Fifteen  Tribes  of  North  Wales      - 
Blegwryd  -  .  -  - 

leuan  Vawr,  the  son  of  the  Dewless 
Triads  of  Embellishments 
Llewelyn  Bren .  -  -  - 

Gwaethvoed      -  -  -  - 

Gentility  and  Ugentility 
Pedigree  of  Davydd  Ddu  Gynllwynwr 
Davydd  ap  Gwilym      -  -  - 

Elegiac  Stanzas  on  ditto 
Grufiydd  Gmg  ... 

Lineage  of  Marchwiail,  in  Maelor 
Eisteddvod  of  Gwem  y  Cleppa 
Cadogan  of  the  Battle- Axe 
Owen  Glendower  ... 

Sir  Lawrence  Berkrolles  and  Glendower 


ECCLESUSTICAL  ANTIQUITIES. 

Genealogies  of  the  British  Saints  -  -  -  -     100        405 

The  Three  Holy  Families  of  the  Island  of  Britain        -  -    100        508 


Page. 

Page. 

7a 

461 

74 

461 

75 

463 

.76 

464 

77 

465 

77 

466 

77 

466 

78 

467 

70 

468 

70 

460 

80 

460 

80 

460 

80 

470 

80 

470 

81 

470 

81 

471 

81 

471 

82 

472 

82 

472 

83 

473 

83 

473 

84 

474 

85 

475 

85 

475 

80 

476 

87 

477 

87 

478 

88 

470 

88 

480 

80 

481 

00 

481 

00 

481 

01 

482 

02 

484 

04 

488 

05 

480 

05 

400 

06 

401 

07 

402 

08 

403 

08 

403 

CONTENTS. 


IX 


Genealogies  and  Families  of  the  Saints  -  -  -  llô  510 

The  same,  from  another  Manuscript      -  -  -  -  13Ô  538 

Memoranda  of  the  Saints           -           -  .  .  -  147  552 

Festivals  of  the  Saints  of  Wales            -  .  -  152  558 


FABLES. 

FABLES  OF  CATTWG  THE  WISE. 

I.  The  Mole  and  the  Lark        .... 
IL  The  Man  who  killed  his  Greyhound 

III.  The  Two  Fish       -  -  -  •  . 

IV.  The  Grasshopper  and  the  Ant        ... 
y.  The  Fowler  and  the  Cooper  .  .  . 

VI.  The  Smith  who  had  a  Good  Name 

VII.  The  Ilog  and  the  Cuckoo  ... 

VIII.  The  Old  Woman  and  the  Yam 

IX.  The  Woodpigeon  and  the  Magpie 

X.  The  Man  and  the  Mouse     -  -  -  . 

XI.  The  Man  and  the  Carrion  -  .  -  . 

XII.  Ceinan,  the  Daughter  of  Ceinwawr 


King  Arthur  and  the  Hanner  Dyn 
The  Mouse  and  the  Cat 


ANCIENT  FABLES. 

I.  EInvy  burning  itself  -  .  .  .  . 

II.  Another  V  -^«on      ------ 

III.  Revenge    -  ^         -  -  -  -  . 

IV.  The  Owl,  the  Dove,  and  the  Bat   - 

V.  The  Goats,  the  Sheep,  and  the  Wolves 

VI.  The  Wild  Horse 

VII.  The  Nightingale  and  the  Hawk    -  -  .  - 

VIII.  Einion  ap  Gwalchmai  and  the  Lady  of  the  Green  Wood 

IX.  The  Rich  Man 

X.  The  Blind  Beggar 

XI.  The  Man  and  the  Colt 

XII.  Meredydd  ap  Rhosscr       -  -  -  .  . 


154 

560 

154 

561 

155 

562 

156 

562 

156 

563 

167 

564 

157 

565 

158 

566 

150 

567 

159 

667 

161 

570 

163 

572 

164 

574 

165 

575 

166 

577 

170 

580 

171 

681 

172 

583 

173 

584 

174 

585 

175 

586 

176 

587 

180 

602 

181 

603 

182 

604 

183 

606 

TALES. 

Caradoc,  and  tlu*  Prison  of  Ooth  ami  Anot'th 
The  Three  Birds  of  Liwcii  Gwvn 
Thf  Ancionts  of  thr  World 


18.5 

607 

]V,i\ 

600 

m\ 

601 

X  CONTRVTS. 

Paok.  I'a(îe. 

The  Dream  of  the  Apostle  Paul              -            -            -            -    100  na*) 

The  Tale  of  Rhitta  Gawr  [the  Giant]  -           -           -           -    193  005 

Cynfig 194  007 


MISCELLANIES. 

The  Principles  of  Prediction  of  Gildas  the  Prophet 
Tybiawn  .  -  .  .  . 

The  Custom  of  the  Princes  of  Wales 
Madoc  Min         -  -  -  -  - 

Grufydd  the  son  of  Meredydd    ... 
leuanGethin     ----- 
Rhys  Brydydd  [the  Poet] 
Gmfydd  ap  leuan  ap  Rhys  Brydydd     - 
Rhys  Brydydd  -  -  -  -  - 

Coelbren  y  Beirdd,  or  Bardic  Alphabet 
Ancient  Symbols  -  -  .  - 

Cuttings  -  -  -  -  - 

The  Ten  original  Letters  -  -  - 

The  Bardic  Wooden  Frame       -  -  - 

The  Coelbren,  according  to  Llewelyn  Sion 
Poetical  Metres  of  Geraint  Vardd  Glâs 
The  Chair  of  Tir  larll    -  -  -  - 

Rules  of  ditto     -  -  -  -  - 

Institutes  of  Poetry        -  .  -  - 

Armlets  of  the  Bards  -  -  - 

Insignia       -  -  -  -  - 

Fables         ----- 
Coats  of  Arms    -  -  -  -  - 

Names  of  Founders  of  Churches  in  Glamorgan 
The  Cwtta  Cy  varwydd  -  -  -  - 

A  Fragment       -  -  -  -  - 

Charter  of  Lantwit         -  -  -  - 

Charter  of  Chirk  -  -  -  - 

Agricultural  Proverbs   -  -  -  - 

Rhyming  Proverbs        -  -  -  . 


POETRY. 

Twenty  Poems,  Chiefly  Amatory,  by  Rhys  Goch  of  Tir  larll,  son  of  Rhicccrt 
ab  Ktnion  ab  Collwyn,  (circa  1140.) 

I.  A  Love  Song 22R        045 

II.  A  Song  to  Gwcnn's  Hair              -            -            -            -     229        VAf^ 
TU.  A  Love  Song 2-') I         04r, 


191 

00 

192 

008 

197 

010 

198 

Oil 

198 

012 

199 

012 

199 

013 

200 

014 

200 

014 

203 

017 

203 

017 

204 

018 

205 

019 

205 

019 

200 

020 

209 

023 

211 

025 

211 

025 

214 

029 

217 

(532 

217 

033 

218 

034 

219 

035 

219 

()a5 

222 

038 

222 

038 

223 

039 

224 

039 

224 

041 

220 

041 

CONTENTS. 


XI 


IV.  The  same  subject  ----- 

V.  The  same 

VI.  The  same  ------ 

VII.  The  same  ------ 

VIII.  The  Song  of  the  Sleepless       -  -  -  - 

IX.  A  Love  Song       ------ 

X.  The  Song  of  the  Thrush  ----- 

XI.  A  Love  Song      ------ 

XII.  Dispatching  the  Sea-Mew  on  a  Message 

XIII.  The  Bard  sends  Gwenn  to  Rome,  to  do  penance  for 

causing  his  death     -  -  -  .  . 

XIV.  A  Song  to  the  Summer  -  -  -  . 

XV.  The  Song  of  the  Bower  -  -  -  . 

XVI.  A  Song  in  praise  of  a  Lady      -  -  -  - 

XVII.  A  Song  to  the  Wind 

XVIII.  A  Song  of  the  Jealous  -  -  -  - 

XIX.  A  Song  of  the  Matchless  -  -  -  - 

XX.  A  Song  of  Dying  of  Love  -  -  -  - 

Sayings  of  the  Wise       ------ 

Another  Set        ------- 

The  Stanzas  of  the  Excellences  -  -  -  . 

Stanzas  of  the  Achievements     .  -  .  -  . 

Others  ditto        ------- 

The  Croi^Tied  Babe         ------ 

Verses  on  the  Names  of  God,  by  John  of  Kentchurch  - 

On  the  Age  and  Duration  of  Things,  by  Ditto  -  -  - 

Ode  by  Grufydd  Llwyd  (circa  1390)     -  -  -  - 

Verses  by  John  of  Kentchurch,  on  his  Death-bed 

A  Poem  on  St.  Illtyd,  by  Lewis  Morganwg 

— — —  St.  Teilo,  by  Icvan  Llwyd  ap  Gwilym 

St.  David,  l)y  Icuaa  Rhydderch 

— —  St.  Cattwg,  by  Richard  ap  Rhys    - 

St.  Kynog,  by  IIowcl  ap  Davydd  -  -  - 

A  Poem  to  Another's  Book,  by  John  of  Kentchurch    - 

Tlie  Secret,  by  Rhys  Goch  of  Snowdon 

A  Poem  to  the  Virgin  Mar}',  by  leuan  ap  Rhydderch  - 

An  Ode  to  King  Henry  the  Seventh      -  -  .  - 

Ode  to  Davj-dd  Llwyd,  by  Gytto'r  Glynn 

Elegy  on  Llawdden,  by  lorwerth  Vynglwyd    - 

A  Poem  to  request  a  Fisliing  Net,  by  Meredydd  ap  Rhys 

A  I'«>em  returning  thanks  for  tlie  same,  by  tlie  same    - 

A  Poem  requesting  the  Loan  of  the  Grcal  for  the  Abbot  of 

Valle  Crucis,  by  Gytto'r  Glynn     -  -  -  - 

A  P«>em  requesting  the  loan  of  the  Greal  from  the  Abbot  of 

Neath,  i»y  Black  Evan  of  the  Billhook 


Page. 

Page. 

232 

646 

232 

647 

233 

647 

234 

647 

23Ô 

647 

23G 

647 

237 

647 

238 

648 

239 

648 

240 

649 

240 

649 

243 

649 

244 

649 

24G 

650 

247 

650 

248 

650 

250 

650 

251 

651 

2G0 

665 

2í;2 

668 

2G2 

668 

204 

672 

205 

674 

285 

676 

280 

ÍÎ77 

28Ö 

079 

200 

682 

2ì)2 

083 

2í).5 

ca5 

2í)8 

080 

^'ÌOl 

080 

302 

G8(; 

304 

087 

no7 

088 

310 

080 

313 

003 

315 

094 

317 

rm 

3::i 

700 

322 

702 

324 

704 

3J7 

7<Mj 

ILLUSTIIATIONS. 


V  RuYs's  Gross,  to  front  the  title    -        -        -        -  paoe. 

Description 368 

^  Samson's  Gross 364 

^  Facsimiles  of  MSS.  first  specimen    ....  oo 

Ditto,  second  specimen      -        -        -        -        .         .  288 


HANESYDDIAETH. 


LLYMA  WEHELYTH  lESTYN  AB  GWRGAN, 

TYWYSOG    MOEGANWG.    AG    YCHYDIG    SON    AM    EU    CAMPAU    A'U 
GWEITHREDOEDD.* 


Iestyx,  ab  Gwrgan,  ab  Ithel,  ab  Owain,  ab  Morgan  hen,  yr 
hwn  a  elwid  yn  ei  oes  Morgan  Mawr,  ab  Hywel,  ab  Rhys,  ab 
Arthfael,  ab  Gweirydd,  ab  Brochfael,  ab  Meyryg,  ab  Arthfael,  ab 
Rhys,  ab  Einydd,  ab  Morgan,  ab  Adras,  ab  Meyryg,  ab  Tewdrie, 
ab  Teithfallt,  ab  Nynaw,  ab  Bran,  ab  Edric,  ab  Creirwy,  ab 
Meyryg,  ab  Meirchion,  ab  Gwrgan  frŷch,  ab  Arthfael,  ab  Einydd, 
ab  Gorddyfwii,  ab  Goryc,  (alias  Goria,)  ab  Eirchion  fawdfilwr,  ab 
Ywain,  ab  Cyllin,  ab  Caradog,  ab  Bran,  ab  Llỳr,  ab  Baran,  ab 
Ceri  hir  lyngwyn,  ab  Caid,  ab  Arch,  ab  Meirion,  ab  Ceraint,  ab 
(rreidiol,  ab  Dingad,  ab  Anyn,  ab  Alafon,  ab  Brywlais,  ab  Ceraint 
feddw,  ab  Berwyn,  ab  Morgan,  ab  Bleddyn,  ab  Rhûn  ab  Idwal, 
ab  Llywarch,  ab  Calchwynydd,  ab  Enir  fardd,  ab  Ithel,  ab  Llariau, 
ab  Tewged,  ab  Llyfeinydd,  ab  Peredur,  ab  Gweyrydd,  ab  Ithon, 
ah  Cyniryw,  ab  Brwth,  ab  Selys  hen,  ab  Annyn  Dro,  ab  Prydain, 
ab  Aedd  Mawr. 

1.  Annyn  Dro,  a  elwir  yn  Llyfr  leuan  Deulwyn  Einion  Dro,  a 
fu>  Brenin  cyntaf  ar  Gymru,  efe  oedd  fab  i  Brydain  ab  Aedd 
mawr,  Aedd  mawr  oed  frenin  ar  Genedl  y  Cymry  cynoi  dyfod  i 
Ynys  Prj'dain,  a  UymaV  enwau  a  fu  ar  yr  Ynys  hon  cyn  no**! 
chyfaneddu,  sef  Clâs  Merddin,  a  chwedi  dyfod  o  rai  Gymry  iddi  y 
gelwid  hi'r  Fel  ynys  gan  amled  y  mel  a  gafwyd  ynddi,  a  phan  wybu 

*  0  Lyfr  Mr.  Thomas  Truemon,  o  BantUiwydd. 

B 


4  GWEHELYTH    lESTYN   AB   GWRGAN, 

Aedd  mawr  am  hynny  a  theged  Owlad  ydoedd,  efe  a  roddes  wỳr  a 
moddion  i  oresgyn  y  Felynys,  a  hynny  a  wnaeth  efe,  a"*i  (xalw  yn 
ol  ei  enw  ei  hun  Prydain,  efe  a  rannws  yr  Ynys  yn  deiran,  ag  un 
ran  a  gafas  ei  fab  hynaf  a  elwid  Lloegr,  a  hwn  a  roddes  ei  enw  ar 
ei  wlad,  a  mab  arall  sef  y  leuaf  a  gafas  y  ran  ogledd  oV  Ynys,  a 
dywedir  mai  Dynwallon  oedd  enwV  mab  hwnnw,  aV  mab  Ganol, 
a  elwid  Annyn  Dro,  a  gafas  Dir  Cymry  o  afon  Hafren  hyd  for  y 
werddon,  ag  anwired  hyn  o  ystori,  herwydd  ei  hawdurdod  ai  ham- 
geniad  ar  y  Llyfreu  Hanesion  cymmeredig,  Bamed  y  dysgedig. 
Gwr  glewfryd  ydoedd  Annyn. 

2.  Selys  Hen  ab  Annyn,  a  beris  losgi'r  Coedydd  fal  y  caffai 
Ryseldir  at  yd  a  gwartheg,  ac  efe  a  roes  enw  ar  y  wlad  a  elwir 
Cartre  Selys. 

3.  Brwth  ab  Selys  hen,  a  wnaeth  Ryfel  gyntaf  yn  Ynys 
Prydain. 

4.  Cymryw  ab  Brwth,  a  wnaeth  gyfraith  gyntaf  yn  ynys  Pryd- 
ain, ag  a  fii  wellianydd  mawr  ar  Dir  a  da,  ac  efe  a  gedwis  lawer  o 
bob  anifeiliaid. 

6.  Ithon  ab  Cymryw  a  fu  wellianydd  mawr  ar  drefh  wladych- 
iad,  ag  efe  a  wnaeth  drefn  ar  hau  yd. 

6.  Gweirydd  mawr  ab  Ithon,  a  fii  frenin  Call  iawn,  ac  efe 
gyntaf  a  wnaeth  gadwraeth  ar  wair  i  borthi,  meirch  a  gwartheg 
ynygauaf. 

7.  Peredur  ab  Gweirydd,  a  fu  wedyn  yn  frenin  nerthol,  ond  ni 
wyddys  yn  awr  am  nemmor  6*i  gampau. 

8.  Llyfeinydd  ap  Peredur,  oedd  cadam  a  chroch  ei  lais,  fal  y 
iílywîd  ef  cyn  belled  ag  y  cerddai  wr  o  haul  y  boreu  hyd  haul 
canolddydd. 

9.  Gtorwst  ab  Llyfeinydd,  a  fuV  Gwr  buanaf  ar  ei  droed  a  fu 
erioed,  ag  ni  wyddus  amgen  no  hynny  o'^i  gampau,  nid  oedd  iddo 
Blant. 

10  Tewged  Ddu  ab  Llyfeinydd,  a  fu  frenin  ar  ol  ei  frawd  Gor- 
wst,  ag  yn  ei  amser  ef  y  daeth  y  Dieithraid  o  Graerdoea  i  Ynys 
Prydain,  ag  a  wnaethant  yma  fal  y  dywedir  yn  eu  hanes,  o  waith 
Guttyn  Owain  ag  eraill. 

11.  Llarian  fwyn  ab  Tewged,  a  fii  frenin  mwyn  iawn,  a  da 
dros  ben. 

*  12.  Ithel  ab  Llariau  a  fu  frenin  llesol  iawn  ag  ddysgwys  gyntaf 
y  ffordd  o  heiniaru  Gwenith  yn  iawn,  ag  efe  a  wnaeth  gyntaf 
ddosparth  perchennogaeth  ar  Dir. 


TYWYSOG    MORGANWG.  5 

13.  Enir  ab  Ithel,  a  elwir  Enir  Fardd,  a  fii  frenin  doeth  iawn 
a  Bardd  da,  efe  a  wnaeth  drefh  dda  ar  ddoethineb,  ag  a  roddes 
&wr  barch  i  Feirdd  a  Derwyddon,  fal  yr  aeth  ef  a  hwynt  yn  ben 
ar  y  Byd  am  ddoethineb,  a  Gwybodaeth.  Derwyddon  yn  yr  am- 
ser  hynny  y  gelwid  Gwyr  wrth  ddysg  a  flFydd, 

14.  Galchfynydd  hen  ab  Enir  Fardd,  a  wnaeth  galch  gyntaf,  sef 
fal  y  gwnaeth  ef  hynny  gyntaf  wrth  wneuthur  odyn  fara,  Dan  ei 
aelwyd  a  cherrig,  aV  cerrig  a  friwyd  yn  chwilfriw  gan  y  tan,  ai 
tawla  ymaith  a  wnaeth  ef,  aV  gwlaw  a^i  gwnaeth  hwynt  gyntaf  yn 
Iwch  a  chwedi  hynny  yn  forter  yr  hyn  beth  a  galedodd  yn  fawr 
J^  J  tywydd,  ag  a  pheth  oV  calch  hynny  y  gwynnodd  ef  ei  Dy, 
ac  o  hynny  y  cafodd  ef  ei  enw. 

15.  Llywarch  ab  Calchfynnydd,  a  wnaeth  gaerau  main  a  chalch 
gyntaf,  a  Bhyfel  mawr  a  fu  rynddo  aV  Estroniaid  Seisnig  sef  y 
Gorraniaid  a  ddaethant  yn  ei  amser  ef  i  Ynys  Prydain. 

16.  Idwal  Falch  ab  Llywarch  oedd  wr  pen  y  gamp  ar  bob  gorch- 
est,  ag  yn  amser  Dyfhwal  Moehnud  yr  oedd  ef  ag  yn  ben  hynaif 
yn  Uys  Dyfnwal,  ag  o  hynny  allan  yr  aeth  ei  eppil  ef  o  Dywys- 
ogion  yn  Ben  hyneifiaid  yn  yr  holl  Lysoedd  Brenhinoedd  a  Thy- 
wysogion  yn  Ynys  Prydain. 

17.  Archwyn  ab  Idwal  a  fu  frenin  Byddar  a  mud,  ac  er  hynny 
yn  wr  call  iawn  a  dewr,  eithr  am  ei  ddiflFygion  ef  a  drowyd  o'r 
frenhinaeth. 

18.  B>hun  Gramber  ab  Idwal,  a  fu  frenin  gwrol  iawn,  ag  a  wnaeth 
gyfraith  na  chai  neb  ymdrafod  ag  achos  ei  Gymodog  heb  gennad 
neu  ofyngais, 

19.  Gorfynîaw  ab  Bbun  Gamber,  a  fu  frenin  drwg  iawn,  a  chreu- 
lon,  ag  ef  a  laddwyd  ai  frawd  Cynfarch  a  ddaeth  yn  ei  le. 

20.  Cynfarch  ab  Bhun  a  laddwyd  am  ei  aflewder,  a'^i  frawd 
Bleddyn  a  fu  ar  ei  ol. 

21.  Bleddyn  ab  Bhun  a  fu  frenin  da  iawn  ag  efe  a  enillwys  y 
maes  lawer  gwaith  ar  ei  elynion,  ag  aches  hynny  y  gelwid  ef 
Bleddyn  flaidd,  a  mawrbarch  ydoedd. 

22.  Morgan  ab  Bleddyn  oedd  frenin  da  iawn,  ac  efe  a  wnaeth  y 
mawrles  yn  ei  wlad  mewn  heddwch  ag  mewn  Rhyfel,  ag  efe  a 
wnaeth  gyfraith  na  ddifetbid  y  coedydd  heb  Gennad  y  Brenin  neu 
ddoethion  y  wlad,  ag  y  llosgid  bob  Llofrudd,  a  Bradwr,  a  dwyn 
holl  gyfoeth  y  Lleidr,  a^i  roi  iV  rhai  a  yspeiliasai  arnynt.  rhai  a 
wedant  mai  oddiwrtho  ef,  y  cafodd  Morganwg  ei  henw,  eithr  nid 
gwir  hynny  mewn  Llyfr  nag  ystori  oV  Byd  fal  y  gwelir  yn  y  man. 


6  GWEHELYTH    lESTYN   AB   GWRGAN, 

23.  Berwyn  ab  Morgan  a  fu  frenin  cadam,  yn  Uwyr  ddial  ar  ei 
Elynion,  efe  a  fu  gadarn  yn  erbyn  j  drwg  ag  ymhlaid  y  da. 

24.  Geraint  feddw  ab  Berwyn,  awnaeth  gwrw  brag  gyntaf  yn 
iawn  fal  y  dylai,  a  thymaV  ffbrdd  y  gwnaeth  ef  y  Cwrw,  wedi 
berwi  y  Brecci,  a  berwi  ynddo  flodau'^r  maes  a  mel,  fe  ddaeth  Baedd 
ag  a  yfodd  oV  cwrw  a  bwrw  ei  ewyn  a  wnaeth  y  Baedd  ynddo,  yr 
hynn  a  wnaeth  Tr  Cwrw  fermanu  a  gweithio,  a  gwell  a  fvCr  cwrw 
hynny  nag  un  Cwrw  a  fu  erioed  o'i  flaen  ef,  ag  o  hynny  i  maes  y  daeth 
arfer  dodi  berman  mewn  Cwrw,  wedi  cael  allan  hyn  o  wybodaeth  yr 
ymrodd  Geraint  yn  ei  hollwaith  i  feddwi,  ag  a  f u  farw  yn  ei  ddiod. 

25.  Brywlais  ab  Ceraint  a  fu  frenin  da  a  Bardd  pereidd  a  chan- 
tor  blasber,  ag  ni  wyddys  amgen  am  ei  gampau, 

26.  Alafon  ab  Brywlais  a  fu  frenin  serchog  iawn  ar  iaSajr  a 
gweithred,  ag  efe  oedd  fardd  godidogwaith,  ag  yn  ei  amser  ef  y  bu 
Daeargryd  mawr  oni  hoUtwys  y  mynyddau  aV  Creigiau,  ag  y 
troes  yr  afonydd  o'^i  gwalau,  a  rhedeg  drwy  holltadauV  ddaear. 

27.  Annyn  Grych  ab  Alafon  a  fu  frenin  nerthol  ag  yn  ei  amser 
y  codes  brenin  newydd  o  Iwyr  drais  yngwynedd,  a  Rhyfel  mawr  a 
fu  rhwng  Annyn  aV  Corraniaid,  a  gwaith  fuddug  y  bu  ef  amynt 
mewn  llawer  ymladd,  ag  yn  ei  amser  ef  y  daeth  y  Ddraig  Estron 
i  Ynys  Prydain  a'r  Werddon,  ag  yn  Ynys  Prydain  y  cymhleid- 
iasant  aV  Bhufeiniaid  er  brad  TrCymry  a  gwedi  hynny  gydaV 
Saeson,  eithr  y  maent  wedi  myned  ar  Iwyr  goU  yn  awr  yn  Ynys 
Prydain,  ond  y  maent  yn  llwyr  berchenogion  y  Werddon,  ac  yno 
fyth.  ag  a  elwir  y  Gwyddelod,  a  phenna  Brad  ynys  Prydain  y 
buont  aV  ail  oV  tair  Brif  ormes,  a  thrydedd  a  fu>  Saeson. 

28.  Dingad  ab  Annyn,  a  gedwis  gyntaf  wỳr  a  meirch  rhag  ym- 
gyrch  gelynion  ag  a  wnaeth  lawer  o  Gaerau  a  Chaerwigoedd,  ag  a 
ddysgwys  gyntaf  i  ddynion  fyw  mewn  Caeran. 

29.  Greidiol  ap  Dingad,  a  wnaeth  ryfel  yn  erbyn  y  Corraniaid 
ag  efe  ai  lladdodd  hwynt,  ag  aM  gyrrodd  hwynt  yn  drylwyr  o 
Gymru,  allawer  o  honynt  a  aethant  at  y  Gwyddelod  iV  Werddon 
a  Llawer  i'r  Alban, 

30.  Ceraint  ab  Greidiawl  a  fu  frenin  doeth,  ond  o  achos  cam 
merch,  a  hi  nis  carai  ef,  efe  a  golles  ei  gof  a'i  Synwyr. 

31.  Meirion  ab  Dingad,  ei  ewyrth,  a  fu  frenin  ar  ei  ol  ef  ag  o**! 
enw  ef  y  gelwid  Meirionydd,  Ue  y  bu  ef  yn  Arlwydd  cyn  bod  yn 
frenin. 

32.  Arch  ab  Meirion  a  wnaeth  drcfn  dda  ar  Ryfel,  ag  ni 
wyddes  amgen  o'i  weithredoedd. 


TYWYSOG    MORGANWG.  / 

33.  Oaid  ab  Arch  a  \maeth  Byntydd  gyntaf  ar  afonydd  ag  a 
roddes  ar  y  wlad  eu  cynnal.  ag  efe  fu  iddo  Blant.  eithr 

34.  Garadawg  ab  Arch  a  fa  frenin  ar  ei  ol  achos  oedran  Plen- 
tynaidd  ei  Nai  Ceri  ab  Gaid,  aV  Garadawg  hwn  a  fuV  Brenin 
glewaf  a  chlodfawrusaf  oV  holl  fyd  mewn  Bhyfel,  a  mawr  ei  galon- 
did  ymhob  peth,  efe  a  enillodd  lawer  gwaith  mewn  Rhyfel  ar  y 
Bhnfeiniaid,  oni  ynillwyd  amo  drwy  frâd  a  thwyll  ag  yna  ei 
ddwyn  yn  wr  gortrech  i  Bufain,  ond  efe  a  ddaeth  wedi  hynny  i 
Gymm,  ond  yr  oedd  erbyn  hynny  ei  Nai  Geri  ab  Gaid  yn  frenin. 
ar  Garadawg  hwnn  a  wnaeth  Lys  ar  ddull  Tai  Bhufain  yn  Aber- 
gwerydwyr,  a  elwir  yn  awr  Llanddunwyd  fawr  a  San  Dunwyd,  ai 
ferch  ef  Eargain  a  briodes  Bendefig  o  Bufeinwr  yr  hwnn  a  ddaeth 
gyda  hi  i  Gymru  ag  un  oedd  ef  a  ddygwyd  Vt  flFydd  ynghrist  ag 
yn  unwedd  ei  wraig  Eargain  a  ddygwyd  ir  fiydd,  a  hi  gyntaf  a 
ddygodd  wybodaeth  o'*r  ffydd  i  blith  y  Gymry,  ag  a  ddanfonodd 
am  Ilid  Sant  o  wlad  yr  Israel  o  wlad  Bhafain  i  Ynys  Prydain  yr 
hwn  Ilid  a  elwir  yn  y  llithion  o  fywyd  y  Saint  Sioseb  o  Arima- 
thia,  ag  efe  a  fu'n  ben  addysg  i''r  Gymry  yn  y  flFydd  Gristnogol, 
efe  a  roddes  drefii  ar  Qor  Eargain  yr  hon  a  wnaeth  hi  i  ddeaddeg 
o  S^nt  yn  agos  i'r  Eglwys  a  elwir  yn  awr  Eglwys  lUtad,  ond  efe 
a  losgwyd  y  Gôr  hon  gan  y  Brenin  Edgar,  wedi'^r  drefh  hon  efe 
aeth  Hid  i  Ynys  Afallen  yng  ngwlad  yr  hâf  lie  ba  efe  farw  ag  y 
claddwyd  ef  ag  Ina  frenin  y  wlad  honno  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  fawr 
uwch  ben  ei  fedd  ef,  ar  lie  a  elwir  yn  awr  Glasinbyri  ag  yn  Gym- 
raeg  Aberglaston. 

35.  Geri  ab  Gaid  a  fu  wr  Gall  iawn  ag  a  wnaeth  lawer  o  Longau 
ar  gost  gwlad  ag  Arlwydd,  ag  am  hynny  y  gelwid  ef  Ceri  hir 
Lyngwyn  gan  faint  ei  lyngwyni  ar  y  mor,  ag  efe  a  fu  fyw  yn  y 
Ue  a  elwir  Forth  Geri. 

36.  Baran  ab  Geri  a  fu  frenin  nerthol  iawn  goruwch  pob  un  a 
fa  o^i  flaen  ef  am  wroldeb  i  ymladd,  aV  glewaf  erioed  oV  Tywys- 
ogion  ydoedd,  efe  a  fu  fyw  naw  ugain  a  saith  o  flwyddi,  ag  a  bri- 
odes ddeunaw  gwraig  a  chant  o  feibion  a  merched  a  fu  iddo,  efe  a 
godymai  aV  tri  gwr  cryfaf  oV  Byd,  a  tbrechu  a  wnaeth  ef  ar  wyr 
Rhufain  y  mhob  ymladd. 

37.  Lleyn  ab  Baran  a  fu  frenin  call,  a  glewnerth,  efe  a  wnaeth 
Byfel  yn  erbyn  Brenin  Gwynedd  ag  ynillodd  wlad  arno  ef,  ai  galw 
gi^'lad  Lcyn,  efe  a  fu  fyw  yn  hen  iawn  fal  ei  dad. 

38.  Tegid  ab  Baran,  a  fu  frenin  call  a  Bardd  da,  efe  a  wnaeth 
dre/    dda  ar  ddysg  a  gwybodaeth,  ag  a  barodd  adfcriant  o'r  hen 


8  GWEHELYTH    lESTYN    AB   GWRGAN, 

ddysg  a  gwybodaeth  oedd  wedi  myned  ar  ledgoll,  ag  a  wnaeth 
gynghorfa  Beirdd  a  Darwyddon,  fal  y  boasai  gynt,  efe  a  ddaliodd 
Byfel  ai  elyniou;  ond  hwy  a^i  daliasant  ef  drwy  frad  ag  ai  boddas- 
ant  ef  yn  y  Llyn  mawr  dwr  a  elwir  am  hynny  o  achos  Llynn  Tegid 
yngwynedd,  ni  bu  iddo  blant. 

39.  Llyr  ab  Baran,  efe  a  ymladdodd  yn  gadam  a  Uawer  Cenedl 
0  elynion  efe  yrrodd  y  Bhufeiniaid  o  Ddeheubarth  aV  Gwyddelod 
0  Wynedd,  aV  Llydawiaid  o  CFemyw,  ag  a  wnaeth  frenhinaeth 
Gtemyw  yn  un  a  Chymru,  a  myned  i  Gternyw  i  fyw  a  wnaeth  ef .  a 
rhoddi  G^wlad  Essyllwg  sef  fal  hynny  y  gelwid  Morganwg  bryd 
hynny,  iddei  &b  hynaf  a  elwid  Bran. 

40.  Bran  ab  Llyr  a  fîi  frenin  gwych,  a  gwedi  marw  ei  frodyr 
yn  ddi  blant  yr  aeth  ef  i  G^myw,  gan  adael  Essyllwg  iddei  ail  fab 
Caradawg,  efe  a  wnaeth  lawer  o  les  yn  erbyn  gelynion,  ag  a  f a 
ortrechol  ar  y  Bhufeiniaid,  ag  a  ganiattawys  i  wyr  Llydaw  wlad- 
ychiad  ynghemiw  dan  ammod  ei  nertha  ef  yn  erbyn  Gwyr  Bhu- 
fain  yr  hynn  a  wnaethant  yn  lewfryd  iawn.  Y  Bran  hwn  a  aeth 
yn  Ymhoredr  ar  Ynys  Prydain,  eithr  ei  feibion  eraill  ynteu  a 
fuant  feirw,  ag  o'^r  achos  hynny  y  daeth  ei  gỳfoeth  ef  iV  fab 
Caradawg. 

41.  Caradawg  ab  Bran,  a  fu  Frenin  Nerthol  iawn,  a  phan  ddi- 
gwyddodd  Ymherodraeth  Ynys  Prydain  a  gwlad  Gtemyw  iddo  yr 
aeth  ef  i  Ctemyw  i  fyw,  a  rhoddi  Gwlad  Essyllwg  iddei  fab  Cyllin, 

42.  Cyllin  ab  Caradawg  a  fu  frenin  doeth,  a  mwyn  iawn,  ag 
yn  ei  amser  ef  y  daeth  lawer  o'^r  Cymru  Tr  Ffydd  Gristnogol, 
drwy  addysg  y  Saint  o  Gor  Eurgain,  a  llawer  o  wyr  Duwiol  o 
wlad  Groeg  a  Bhufain  a  fuant  ynghymru  yn  ei  amser  ef,  efe 
gyntaf  oV  Cymry  a  beris  rhoddi  enw  Dyn  amo  yn  faban,  herwydd 
cyn  hynny  ni  rhoddid  enw  cyn  llawnoed  a  chael  gwybodaeth  6*t 
Cynneddfau. 

43.  Owain  ab  Cyllin  a  wnaeth  lawer  o  les  Vr  Cristnogion,  ag  a 
wnaeth  Lys  mawr  a  theg  yn  ol  dull  Bhufain  yn  y  Lie  y  buasai 
Lys  gan  Graradawg  ab  Arch  yn  San  Dunwyd,  ag  yn  hynny  o  le  y 
bu  fyw  y  Tywysogion  o  honaw  ef  hyd  amser  Meyryg  ab  Meirch- 
ion,  efe  a  roddes  feddiant  a  chyfoeth  i  Gor  Eurgain  at  gynnal 
deuddeg  Sant. 

44.  Eirchion  ab  Owain,  yn  ei  amser  ef  y  lladdodd  yr  Anghred 
lawer  o''r  Cristnogion,  eithr  Eirchion  a  aeth  yn  ei  gwrth  ag  a  ladd- 
odd  lawer  o  honynt  heb  un  arf  miniog,  na  dim  ond  ei  law  noeth, 
ag  am  hynny  y  gelwid  ef  Eirchion  fawdfilwr. 


TYWYSOG    MORGANWG.  9 

45.  Gorwg  ab  Eîrchion  a  fii  frenin  call  a  chrefyddol  iawn  ag  efe 
a  bens  ymadael  a  Rhyfeloedd,  ag  a  f  jnnodd  wyr  cynnil  o  wlad 
Rhufain  i  ddysguV  iawn  ffordd  yn  ei  wlad  o  drin  Tir  ag  yd.  ag 
adailiadu  Tai,  ag  a  roddes  lawer  at  gynnal  Dysg  a  Duwioldeb,  yr 
oedd  ef  yn  Fardd  da,  efe  a  roddes  enw  newydd  ar  ei  Lys  gan  ei 
alw  Tresilian  yn  ol  enw  Sant  oV  enw  a  laddasaiV  anghred,  ar  enw 
hynn  a  drigodd  ar  y  Lie  hyd  amser  lestyn  ab  Gwrgan. 

46.  Gterddyfwn  ab  Ctorwg,  a  fu  frenin  gwallcofus  iawn  ag  am 
hynny  a  drowyd  allan  or  frenhinaeth,  ai  frawd  a  gafodd  ei  le  a 
elwid  Bhûn. 

47.  Bhun  ab  Gorwg,  a  fu  frenin  call  iawn  ag  a  wnaeth  yn  ol  ei 
dad  ymhob  daioni,  ag  ef  a  wnaeth  Gyfraith  ar  ddysg  a  chelfydd- 
yd,  fal  y  byddai  Breiniol  ag  anghaeth  pob  gwr  wrth  ddysg  a  chel- 
fyddyd  yn  ol  arfer  gwyr  Rhufain,  ag  efe  a'i  dad  a  fiiant  ben  am 
heddwch  a  Doethineb  ar  yr  holl  frenhinoedd.  efe  a  roddes  y  wlad 
iddei  nai  pan  ddaeth  i  oedran. 

48.  Einydd  ab  Gorddyfwn,  a  fu  frenin  da  yn  dilyn  ffydd  ei 
ewythr  a'i  Dad  y  cu,  ag  a  roddes  fraint  uchelwyr  i  bawb  a  fyddai 
o>  £ÿdd  Gristnogawl,  efe  gyntaf  a  wnaeth  Drefydd  yn  ol  dull 
Gwlad  Rhufain 

49.  Arth&el  ab  Einydd,  a  elwid  Arthfael  hen,  a  wnaeth  lawer  o 
eglwysydd  a  Threfydd  a  Phentrefydd  yn  Defod  ei  Dad.  eithr  yn 
ei  henaint  efe  a  droes  yn  anghred. 

50.  Gwrgan  frych  ab  Arthfael,  a  fu  frenin  Cadam  iawn,  ag  a 
wnaeth  gyfraith  na  chai  neb  ddwyn  tarian  eithr  Cleddyf  a  Bwa  yn 
nnig,  a  hwn  a  wnaeth  wyr  ei  wlad  yn  ddewrion  iawn. 

51.  Meirchion  ab  Gwrgan,  a  wnaeth  lawer  o  Drefydd,  a  dos- 
parth  ar  wlad  yn  Glantrefydd,  a  dosparth  ar  wyr  wrth  Ddysg  a 
chelfyddyd,  ag  a  gadamhawys  y  fraint  a  graddau  i  wyr  prawf 
wrth  Ddysg  a  chelfyddyd. 

52.  Meyryg  ab  Meirchion,  a  fu  frenin  gwych  a  chlodfawr,  ag 
yn  ei  amser  ef  y  d^th  y  Gwyddyl  Ffichti  i  Gymru,  a  meyryg  a 
aeth  yn  ei  gwrth  ag  ai  gyrrodd  ymaith  ag  au  Uaddodd,  eithr  efe  a 
laddwyd  gan  wr  o  wyddyl  a  fu  nghudd  yn  y  coed,  aV  lie  a  elwir 
Ystrad  Meyryg.  efe  a  wnaeth  Lys  yn  y  He  a  elwir  Tref  Beferad, 
aV  He  a  fu  fyth  wedyn  yn  un  o  Brif  lysoedd  y  wlad. 

53.  Crair  ab  Meyrig,  a  fu  frenin  Duwiol  iawn,  a  chall  a  thru- 
garog,  efe  a  laddwyd  gan  y  rhai  digred. 

54.  Edric  ab  Crair  a  fu  frennin  annoeth  iawn,  ag  achos  o  fawr 
awA'bodaeth  a<r  annuwioldeb  yn  v  wla<l,  efe  a  fu  farw  o  ormod  fwvta. 


10  GWEHELYTH    lESTYN   AB   GWRGAN, 

55.-  Bran  ab  Edric  a  fu  frenin  ynfyd  a  drwg  ag  a  f u  farw  o  ddig 
a  fl^rmigfryd. 

56.  Tryhaeam  ab  Edric  a  fu  frenin  ar  ei  ol  ef  a  ffromwyllt 
ydoedd  ag  yn  ei  amser  ef  y  daeth  y  Saeson  aV  ffichtiaid  i  wlad 
Gymru  yngwyr,  eithr  ni  fynnai  Dryhaeam  eu  hymlid  ag  am 
hynny  y  dihenyddwyd  ef. 

57.  Nynaw  ab  Bran,  a  fu  frenin  gwell  naV  rhai  a  fuant  oi  flaen 
o  ddiweddar  oesoedd,  ag  a  yrrodd  y  G^lynion  oV  wlad,  ag  a  roddes 
gyfoeth  i'r  Eglwysydd  eithr  ar  ddiwedd  ei  amser  y  collodd  ef  ei 
gof  a^i  synwyr,  un  Bwydfawr  iawn  ydoedd,  a  hynny  a  fu  achos  ei 
wallgof, 

58.  Teithfallt,  ab  Nyniaw  yr  hwn  a  elwir  Teithfalch  mewn 
rhai  Lyfrau,  a  fu  frenin  da  iawn,  a  Duwiol,  a  chall,  a  glewfryd, 
efe  a  ymladdodd  aV  Saeson  yn  gadam,  ag  ai  gorchfygodd,  efe  a 
wnaeth  gyfraith  raid  a  gorfod  er  rhoddi  o  bawb  gyfran  o'*i  cyfoeth 
a'^u  meddiant,  at  gynnal  crefydd,  ag  offeiriaid,  a  dysg,  ag  Eglwys- 
ydd, ag  yn  ei  amser  ef  y  daeth  lawer  oV  Saeson  a>  Ffichti  i 
Gymry  ag  a  laddasant  lawer  iawn  o  ddynion,  a  llosgi  Eglwysydd 
a  chorau,  efe  a  ddiweddodd  ei  oes  yn  Sant,  ag  a  roddes  ei  frenhin- 
aeth  iddei  fab  Tewdric. 

59.  Tewdric  ab  Teithfallt,  a  fu  Frenin  da  dros  ben,  efe  a  yrrodd  oV 
wlad  y  Saeson  digred  aV  Gwyddelod,  ag  a  wnaeth  lawer  o  Eglwysydd 
a  chorau,  a  rhoddi  Cyfoeth  iddynt  efe  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  yn  Llandaff 
yn  y  man  lie  bu  Eglwys  Lies  ab  Coel  yr  honno  a  losgwyd  gan  y 
digred,  ag  efe  a  roddes  atti  diroedd  helaeth  ag  a  roddes  gyfoeth  i 
Gor  lUtud,  ag  efe  a  wnaeth  yno  bedair  Mintai  deg  i  Wyr  wrth 
Grefydd  a  dysg,  a  thrwyddo  ef  y  daeth  yr  lUtud  hynny  a  Gkirmon 
Sant  i  Gymru,  ag  yr  Cor  Eurgain  ar  hynny  o  bryd  wedi  myned  ar- 
ddarfod  achos  ei  losgi  agos  yn  Uwyr  gan  y  Saeson,  eithr  Cor  Newydd 
a  wnaethpwyd  gerllaw  iddi  gan  Illtud  drwy  ddawn  a  serch  Tew- 
dric, fal  yr  aeth  y  Got  honno  yn  ben  Cor  Ynys  Prydain,  ag  yn 
ben  dysg  a  Duwioldeb  ar  y  Byd.  ac  yn  hyn  o  amser  y  Gwnaeth 
Garmon  Sant  Qot  yn  Llancarfan,  yV  hon  a  fu  enwog  iawn  am  ei 
Saint,  wedi  hynn  fe  ddaeth  y  Saeson  Vr  wlad  eilwaith  eithr  Tew- 
dric a  aeth  yn  ei  herbyn  ag  a  f u  fuddugawl  amynt,  eithr  ei  ladd  a 
gafas  ef,  ar  lie  a  elwyr  Merthyr  Tewdric. 

60.  Meyryg  ab  Tewdric  a  fu  frenin  da,  ag  a  roddes  dir  at  Eg- 
lwys Deilo  yn  Llandaf,  ag  at  Fangor  Illtud,  a  elwir  yn  awr  Llan- 
illtud,  ond  ni  fu  ef  fyw  nemmor  o  amser  wrth  a  fu  i  frenhinoedd 
o'i  flaen  of. 


TYWYSOG    MORGANWG.  11 

61.  Adras  ab  Meyryg  a  fu  frenin  .  glewfiyd  iawn  ag  a  yrrodd 
7  SaeBon  ar  ffo.lawer  gwaith  gan  ei  lladd  ai  difetha,  ag  efe  a 
wnaeth  gyfreithiau  da,  a  threfn  dda  ar  wlad  ag  Eglwys,  ag  efe 
gyntaf  a  drefiiodd  Farchogion  er  cynnal  cyfiawn  ymddwyn  mewn 
Rhyfel  ag  iawn  jmarfer  ag  arfau,  ag  er  cadw  golwg  ar  wlad  a 
gelyn,  a  threfnu  hyspysîad  cyflwyr  mewn  Gwlad  o  bob  cyflwr  a 
digwydd,  herwydd  Rhyfel  a  chyfraith. 

62.  Morgan  ab  Adras,  a  elwir  Morgan  Mwynfawr  a  Morgan 
Morganwg,  a  fu  frenin  enwog  iawn,  ag  yn  farchog  o  Lys  Arthur 
ar  ford  gron.  efe  oedd  gefnderw  i  Arthur,  ag  yn  wr  glanbryd  iawn, 
a  mwyn  dros  ben,  a  serchog  a  thrugarog  iawn  fal  ar  ei  waith  yn 
myned  i  Byfel  ni  fynnai  wr  aros  gartref  a  fedrai  herwydd  nerth 
ag  oedran  ddwyn  Arfau,  ag  o  hynn  y  gelwid  ef  Morgan  Mwyn- 
&wr,  ag  efe  a  roddes  yr  enw  Morganwg  ar  ei  wlad  ar  enw  hyn  y 
sydd  yn  parhau  hyd  yn  awr,  a  phawb  oV  wlad  a  serchasant 
gymaint  ei  gyneddfau  daionus  ef  fal  y  tyfodd  o  hynny  ddiareb  ar 
y  wlad  Mwynder  Morganwg,  efe  a  wnaeth  gyfraith  na  leddid 
gelyn  os  gellid  ortrech  amo  heb  hynny  ar  un  a  lladdai  elyn  os 
gallai  amgen,  a  gollai  fraint  Milwr  a  nawdd  y  Saint,  aV  gyfraith 
hon  a  gymmerwyd  i  fynny  gan  eraill  frenhinoedd  ar  ei  ol  ef.* 


•  Mae  yr  Yag^rif,  ymma,  yn  diweddu  cyn  cyrraedd  lestyn. — Ab  Iolo. 


LLYMA  ENWAU  A  HILIOGAETH  BRENHINOEDD 
MORGANWG 

0  AMSER  MORGAN  MWYNFAWR  HYD  AMSER  lESTYN  AB  GWRGAN, 

AG  ENWAU  YR  ARLWYDDI  ESTRONIAID  O  AMSER  lESTYN 

HYD    YNAMSER  SYR   WILLIAM   HERBERT 

ARLWYDD  MORGANWG.* 


1.  Morgan  mwynfawr  a  fu  Frenin  Gwlad  forgan  ac  ef  a  roddes  yr 
enw  hyn  ar  y  wlad,  a  Brenin  Da  Cyfiawn  a  thrugarog  a  gwrol  a  chidl- 
ddoeth  a  mwjn  a  hynaws  ydoedd  ac  am  ei  fwynder  2k*i  haelioni  yn 
amgenu  ar  bawb  o^i  gyfoedion  efe  a  wnaeth  Gyfreithiau  a  dedd&u 
cyfiawn  a  daionus  er  lies  ei  wlad  a  chymaint  oedd  ei  gariad  yn  ei 
wlad  fal  pan  elai  i  Byfel  nid  arhosai  nebun  gartref  eithr  ei  galyn 
ir  ymladd,  ag  ef  a  fu  waithfuddug  yn  wastad  ar  ei  elynion,  a 
deddf  a  wnaeth  na  wnelai  nac  efe  nai  ddynion  unryw  fiymigrwydd 
ar  elyn  a  orchfygaint  nac  ac  un  dyn  byw  arall  o^r  Byd  ac  na 
wnelai  anghyfraith  o  drais  na  chyfraith  o  gas  a  chynfigen  a  hyn  a 
bares  fwynder  yn  nawttiedig  drwy  gorph  y  wlad  ac  o  hynny  y 
tyfes  ddiareb  mwynder  Morganwg  efe  a  wnaeth  gyfraith  baneb 
bynag  a  wnai  hawl  y  dylait  ddewis  deuddeg  gwr  doeth  a  chali  a 
Dwyfol  a  thrugarog  i  famu'^r  hawl  ar  brenin  yn  gyngor  iddynt. 
ar  gyfraith  hon  a  elwid  y  gyfraith  Ebystolaidd  herwydd  fal  y  mae 
Crist  ai  ddeuddeg  Ebystol  yn  bamu'r  hoU  fyd  felly  ydd  y  Brenin 
ai  ddeuddeg  wyr  doethion  yn  Bamu'r  wlad  drwy,  drugaredd  a 
mwynder  ag  wrth  yr  hon  y  gwnelynt  o  fam  a  chyfiawnder  a  thru- 
garedd  herwydd  ansawdd  ac  uniawnder  yr  hawl,  a  deddf  oedd  iddo 
y  gommeddid  i  bob  ryw  ddyn  hawl  ar  ddywedyd  gair  ar  un  achos 
gwlad  ag  eglwys  babeth  bynnag  ac  nis  credid  beth  a  ddwedai  byn- 
nag  yr  hwn  ddyn  a  ymddugai'n  drahausfalch  ag  yn  ffymig  a 
chreulon  i  ddyn  oV  byd  ai  Brodor  ai  Estron  ai  car  ai  gelyn,  ai 
cymro  ai  anghymro,  oni  ddelai  pen  un  ddydd  a  blwyddyn  yn  ol 
iddo  amau  ei  dafod  ai  weithred  ar  goedd  Llys  a  Llan  coed  maes  a 
mynydd,  a  bod  tyst  o  ddoeth  a  chydwybodus  wybyddiaeth  o'i  iawn 
a  chyfiawn  ag  edifeiriol  ymddwyn  at  bawb  oV  byd  ac  uniawni'r 
cam  hyd  eitha  gallu  ar  a  wnaeth  ef  ac  yna  ei  dderbyn  yn  wr  o'r 
wlad  drachefn  wrth  gyngor  doeth  a  dwyfol  gynghoriaid.  efe  a 
wnaeth  Lys  ym  Margam  ac  a  wnaeth  yno  Escobaeth  a  barheus  yn 

*  TjTiysgrrif  lolo  Morganwg  o  Ysgriflyfr  Llywelyn  Sion. 


BRËNHINOEDD   M0R6ANW6.  13 

06S  pump  escob  ac  ynaV  aeth  yn  un  a  Llandaf.  e  fu  Forgan  yn 
wyllt  ei  ansawdd  a  byrbwyll  yn  ei  leuenctyd  ond  darfu'^n  well  iddo 
wedi  hyn  a  bod  o  honaw  yn  Frenin  goreu  er  a  fu  eríoed,  yn  ol 
edifani  o'^i  amhwyll  ai  fai. 

2.  Einjdd  ab  Morgan  mwynfawr  a  ddaeth  wedrn  yn  frenin  da 
iawn  efe  a  roddes  lawer  o  Gyfoeth  î'r  Eglwysydd  ond  ni  fu  fyw'n 
hir,  e  a  beris  harddiannu  Eglwysydd  Teilo  a  Ghadoc  ag  Illtud, 
ag  a  wnaeth  Egl¥rys  Llaneinydd,  a  elwir  ynawr  St.  Nicolas. 

3.  Rhys  ab  Einydd  a  fu  frenin  dewr  ag  a  yrres  ymaith  y 
Saeson  o  Gymro,  ao  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  yr  hon  a  elwir  Llanbedr 
ar  Fro. 

4.  Arthfael  ab  Rhys  a  fu  frenin  dewr  eithr  a  laddwyd  mewn 
rhyfel  ar  Saeson,  wrth  Eglwys  yr  Bhath  ag  yna  y  Gladdwyd  ef 
a  wŷr  a  fu  ortrechawl  ar  y  Saeson. 

6«  Meyryg  ab  Arthfael  a  fu  Frenin  da  iawn  yn  rhagorgamp 
ymhob  peth  canmolad¥ry,  efe  a  gedwis  allan  ei  elynion  o'^i  wlad 
drwy  nerth  arfau.  a  drygioni  drwy  north  deddfau  a  Chyfreithiau 
morgan  mwynfawr,  ag  am  ei  wych  a  daionus  Lywodraethu  ef  a 
aeth  ei  enw  ar  ddiareb  hyd  heddyw  sef  yw  hynny,  EntD  mater  yto 
mno  Meirtfyy  efe  a  fu  fyw  yn  bennaf  yn  Llanilltyd  fawr  Ue  ddoedd 
plas  gantho. 

6.  Brochfael  ab  Meyryg  a  fu  wedi'n  yn  frenin  efe  a  wnaeth 
lawer  o  Eglwysydd  a  Chestyll  a  llawer  o  weithredoedd  mawrion 
yn  ddrwg  ag  yn  dda  ef  a  wnaeth  gyntaf  Gastell  ynghaerdydd  UeV 
ydoedd  hen  frenhindref  yn  garnedd  anghyfanedd, 

7.  Gweirydd  ab  Brochfael,  a  fu  frenin  doeth  eithr  yn  aflwydd- 
ianus  Cans  clefydon  a  thymorau  gerwinion  ac  afrywiog  a  wnaeth 
lawer  o  ddrwg  i'r  wlad  a  hynn  o  achos  y  drygioni  a  ddigwyddes 
yn  ei  oes  ef  drwy  ymroi  i  ddrwg  ag  anghyfraith  a  ffieiddwch  an- 
nwyfol,  efe  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Llanweirydd  yr  hon  a  elwir  yn  awr 
V  Caerau,  ac  a  fu  gantho  yno  bias,  a  chynnal  ei  Lys  ynghaer- 
dydd. 

8.  Arthfael  ailab  Gweirydd  a  fu  fwy  ei  Iwyddiant  cans  ef  a  yr- 
rawdd  ymaith  y  Saeson  ag  a  omeddawdd  iddyd  ged  o'i  wlad,  ac  a 
fu  waith  fuddug  amynt, 

9.  Rhys  ab  Arthfael  a  wnaeth  lawer  o  Gastelli  cedym,  a  llawer 
0  Longau  ac  a  wnaeth  drwy  ddeddf  i  bob  perchen  tir  yn  y  fro  hau 
ei  banner  yn  yd  a  phob  perchen  tir  oV  blaeneu  i  hau  y  bedrybarth 
yn  yd.  ac  y  dylai  bob  tir  lie  na  thyfai  nac  yd  na  Gwair  a  He  nis 
porid  ac  anifeiliaid  fod  yn  eiddo'r  Brenin  yn  ol  undydd  a  blwyddyn 
wedi  hawl  y  ddeddf,  oni  byddai  goettir  a  fibrestdir  cyfreithlon,  hyn 


14  BRENHINOEDD   M0R6ANWG, 

a  wnaeth  lewndid  mawr  o  fwyd  dyn  ac  anifail  yn  y  wlad  a  dynion 
a  ddaeth  iddi  o  bob  man  o  Gymru  i  fyw  onid  aeth  y  wlad  yn  llawn 
trigolion  ac  yn  nerthfawr  ac  y  gelwid  Morganwg  Arglwyddes  pob 
gwlad  gan  ei  ffrwythloned  ai  phobloced. 

10.  Hywel  ab  Rhys  a  wnaeth  Ryfel  ac  arlwyddi  Qwlad  Brych- 
einiog,  am  dir  ystrad  yw  ac  Euas  y  rhain  diroedd  a  berthynent  o 
iawn  hawl  i  Hywel  a  Gwlad  forganwg  eithr  Arlwydd  Brycheiniog 
a  roddes  ei  hawl  yn  y  tiroedd  hynny  i  Gadell  Brenin  Deheubarth,  a 
gorfu  ar  Hywel  golU  iawn  o'r  tiroedd  hynny  a  gosod  terfyn  ei  wlad 
yngherig  Hywel  herwydd  yno  y  codwyd  y  cerrig  terfyn  a  Hywel  a 
wnaeth  yno  dref  deg  a  Ghastell  ai  galw  Cerrig  Hywel  yr  hon  dref  a 
gyfrifir  yn  awr  yn  Mrycheiniog  Morgan  ab  Hywel  a  fu  ar  ei  ol  ef. 

11.  Morgan  ab  Hywel  oedd  Frenin  mawrwych  a  glewfrydig  dros 
ben  a  mawr  ei  haelioni  a^i  gyfiawnder  ai  drugaredd  ac  am  hynny  y 
gelwid  ef  ail  Arthur,  efe  a  briodes  Olwen  ferch  Bhodri  mawr  ac  a 
ynnilles  ar  Hywel  Dda  drwy  athrewyniad  Edgar  Brenin  Llundain  ao 
Escob  Llands^  ac  Esgob  Dewi  eithr  Hywel  a  roddes  hawl  ar  y  tiiv 
oedd  hyn  wedi  hynny  a  Bhyfel  a  fu  am  danynt  eithr  Blegwryd  ab 
Hywel  brawd  Morgan  a  wnaeth  ymbil  ar  Edgar  a^r  ddau  Esgob 
er  cael  ethrywyn  rhwng  Morgan  a  Hywel  dda  a  hynny  a  gespwyd, 
Edgar  a  geisiodd  ddeuddeg  o  ddoethion  y  wlad  i  famuV  peth  yn  ol 
Cyfraith  Morgan  mwynfawr  ag  ef  yn  ben  cyngor  iddynt  sef  deu- 
ddeg  o  wlad  Hywel  sef  Deheubarth  a  deuddeg  o  wlad  Morgan  sef. 
Morganwg  ar  hawl  a  ddibenwyd  a  rhoddi  o''r  tiroedd  ar  hawl  i 
Forgan  ai  wlad  ac  yna  y  cyhoeddwyd  cyfiawnder  i  Forgan  ai  wlad 
ar  ystrad  yw  ac  Eas  ag  yscymundod  Vt  neb  a  wrthwynebai'r  cyf- 
iawnder hynny  ar  Allor  Deilo  yn  Llandaf  He  y  mae  Llyfr  y  Cyf- 
iawnder hynny  iV  weled  fyth  a  yno  y  daethpwyd  ac  heddwch  Vr 
wlad,  Yr  oedd  gan  Forgan  Lys  ynghaerdydd  yn  y  man  Ue  bu 
Llys  Didi*Gawr  Bufain,  yr  hon  Lys  a  dorrwyd  yn  gamedd  gan  y 
Saeson  yn  amser  Cydwaladr  fendigaid  yr  oedd  hefyd  gan  Forgan 
Lys  ymargam  a  hefyd  Lys  yn  Breigan.  He  byddai'n  cynal  Gwlad 
a  Chyfraith  ef  a  fu  fyw  yn  cheugain  a  phump  oed  ac  am  hynny  y 
gelwid  ef  Morgan  hen. 

12.  Owain  ab  Morgan  hen  a  gafas  ryfel  gan  Owain  ab  Hywel 
dda  eithr  Edgar  a  ddaeth  a  llu  yn  erbyn  Owain  ab  Hywel  ac  fe 
orfu  amo  sefyll  wrth  fam  a  roddes  Edgar  aV  Doethion  o  blaid 
Morgan  Mawr,  ac  Owain  a  gafodd  ysgymundod  eithr  fe  a  roea 
iawn  i  Owain  ab  Morgan  ac  yna  y  dadymchwelwyd  yr  ysgymun- 
dod. yr  Owain  ab  Morgan  hynn  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  a  CÂiesteU 
Ystrad  Ywain  ac  yno  y  claddwyd  ef  a'i  wraig. 


O   MORGAN   HYD  lESTYN.  15 

13.  Ithel  ab  Owain  a  fu  Frenin  glewfrjdig  iawn  a  nerthol  ac  a 
fydcUd  fyw  fynychaf  yn  ei  hafdy  newydd  a  elwid  Tbn  Ithel  ddu 
efe  a  gadarnhaodd  Gastell  Caerdydd,  ac  yno  j  cyneiliai  wlad  a 
CSiyfraith  ac  ef  a  elwid  Ithel  ddu  gan  ddued  ei  wallt  a^i  farf, 

14.  Gi¥Tgan  ab  Ithel  a  fu  frenin  hael,  ac  a  roddes  ar  droed  ac 
mewn  grym  holl  gyfreithiau  Morgan  Mwynfawr  a  Bhys  ab  Arth- 
fiiel  aV  wlad  a  Iwyddodd  yn  fawr  dan  ei  Lywodraeth,  yr  oedd  ef 
yn  fardd  da  iawn  ac  a  wnaeth  gyfreithiau  ac  awdurdodau  da  iawn 
Vr  Beirdd  y  rhain  a  weUr  mewn  Llyfrau  hyd  y  dydd  heddyw  efe 
a  roddes  y  waen  a  elwir  Hirwaen  Wrgan  ynglyn  Bhonddi  iddei 
wleiddiadon  a  phawb  o  Gymro  dros  fyth  bythoedd  i  hau  yd  a  phorthi 
Anifeiliaid,  ac  oi  enw  ef  y  gelwid  y  tir  hynny  Hirwaen  Wrgan. 
efe  hefyd  a  roddes  hawl  i  bob  anihriog  ym  Morganwg  i  borthi  da  a 
defiiid  ac  i  adeiliaw  tai  fal  y  mae  y  dydd  heddyw.  efe  am  ei  wy- 
bodaeth  a  elwid  yn  ail  Selyf. 

15.  lestyn  ab  Gwrgan  a  fu  frenin  ar  ei  ol  ef  ac  yn  frenin  drwg  iawn 
a  Ghreulon  o  anhrugarog,  ac  yn  dwyn  Gas  ei  wleiddiadon  a'^i  bobl,  efe 
a  fu  gas  rhyngddo  a  Bhys  ab  Tewdwr  Brenin  Deheubarth,  ac  a 
wnaeth  Byfel  anghyfiawn  amo  ac  a  gyflogodd  Sir  Bhobert  Fitzha- 
mon  iw  gynhorthwyo  a  chyda  Sir  Rhobert  y  daeth  12  Marchog  a  24 
yswain  a  3000  mil  o  wyr,  ac  oi  blaid  lestyn  y  daeth  hefyd  Einion 
ab  Collwyn  Arlwydd  Dyfed  a  Cheredigion  a  mil  o  wyr  a  Chedrych 
ab  Gwaith  foed  Arlwydd  Ceredigion  a  mil  arall,  eithr  wedi  myned 
ymaith  y  darfu  ymryson  rhwng  lestyn  ac  Einion  a  Chedrych,  ac 
o  achos  hynny  yr  aeth  Einion  a  Chedrych  ar  ol  y  Normaniaid  ac 
adrodd  wrthynt  y  camwedd  a  wnaeth  lestyn  a  nhwy  ai  gwahawdd 
yn  ol  i  Forganwg  a  dywedyd  os  mynnent  y  gallent  ynnill  Mor- 
ganwg ar  lestyn  gan  leied  ei  gariad  yn  y  wlad  a  chymaint  oV 
Cymry  oedd  yn  ei  erbyn  ac  adrodd  hefyd  Cystal  Gwlad  oedd 
Morganwg  ai  brased  am  yd  a  phorfa  a  phob  ffrwythau  da  i  ddyn 
ac  anifail,  a  da  f u  gan  Syr  Bhobert  ai  wyr  glywed  hynny  a  dyfod 
yn  ol  a  wnaethant  ac  ymddadlu  ac  lestyn  a  thrahaus  a  flfromfalch 
y  bu  ef  wrthynt  a  diweddu  a  wnaeth  yr  ymryson  mewn  rhyfel  ac 
ymladdfa  fawr  a  fu  wrth  Dref  ar  y  Mynydd  Bychan  lie  gorfuant 
ar  lestyn  ond  Sir  Bhobert  a  drefnodd  pethau  yn  y  modd  fal  y  do- 
dwyd  Cedrych  ymlaenaf  o'r  Gad  onis  lladdwyd  mwy  nai  banner  a 
(ai  hyn  yr  oedd  amlach  Cad  gan  Sir  Bhobert  na  chan  Einion  a 
Chedrych  ai  plaid  ac  felly  fe  gafodd  y  Haw  uchaf  ar  y  wlad  ac  fe 
allodd  ddewis  iddoi  hûn  ai  wyr  fal  y  mynnai  a  dewis  a  wnaeth  ef  y 
frodir  bras  iddoi  bun  ai  wyr  a'r  tiroedd  a  gafas  Einion  a  Chedrych 
ai  Gwyr  oeddent  y  rhan  fwya  y  flaeneudir.  y  Bhan  a  gymerth  Sir 


16  YR  ARLWYDDI    ESTRONIAID. 

Bhobert  iddoi  hun  oedd  Bhan  lestyn  sef  Pennaduriaeth  a  Bren- 
hiniaeth  Morganwg,  ar  Cestyll  ar  tiroedd  ar  Gjfiawnder  a  ber- 
thynei  ar  y  Bhan  hy nny,  sef  Castell  Caerdyf  a'r  tir  perthyn,  a  Ghas- 
teU  Cynffig  ar  tir  perthyn,  hefyd  Breiniolaethau  Tir  larll  a  Glyn- 
rhodne,  a  chyda  hynny  Maenoldir  y  Bont  faen'  a'r  Cyfipyddid,  a 
Maenoldir  Tref  Beferad  a  Llanilltud  fawr,  ar  Cyfryddid  aV  ddwy 
faenoldref  hynn  at  yd  ac  enllyn  ei  deuly  a  PÛaady  gwych  oedd 
gantho  yn  nhref  beferad  lie  arferai  aros  yn  yr  haf  a  chynal  yno  ei 
Lŷs,  y  Sir  Bobert  hynn  ac  ef  unwaith  yn  hela  yn  nhref  Beferad 
efe  a  gwympodd  ac  a  dorrodd  ei  goes  aV  Ceffyl  wedi  cilio  ^mhell  ao 
ef  oddiwrth  ei  gyfeillion  heb  neb  iw  gynhorthwyo,  ar  Ledfyr  o  aiB» 

ser  efe  a  welai  wr  a  elwid Qu  yn  dyfod  y  ffordd  honno  ac  am 

dano  gleddyf  ac  arfau  eraill,  yr  oedd  Syr  Bhobert  wedi  dwyn  oddi- 
amo  ei  dir  ac  am  hynny  yn  disgwyl  am  ddim  llai  nag  angau  oddiar 
lawV  gwr  arfoc  eithr  y  Gwr  a  gymerth  Sir  Bobert  i  fynnu  ac  ai 
dyccodd  i  dy  bychan  yng  nghilfach  coed  ar  dduU  meudwyfa  ac  a 
ddodes  ynghyd  yr  asgwm  ac  a  ddanfones  am  wyr  Syr  Bhobert  iw 
Warchadw  yn  ddiogel  oni  wellodd  ei  goes,  ac  wedi  gwella  e  fynnai , 

Syr  Bobert  roi  mawr  anregion  i eithr  nis  cymmerai  gan  ddy- 

wedyd  ti  a  ddygaist  fy  nghyfoeth  a  bywyd  fy  ngwraig  am  plant  a'r 
rhan  fwyaf  o''m  ceraint  ac  nid  ywHh  gyfoeth  oil  ddim  iawn  imi  am 
danynt  ond  gwèl  nad  wyf  yn  cam  dial  ar  elyn  yn  ei  anallu.  dos 
adref  yn  ddiogel  a  chofia  nid  oes  amaf  fi  nam  gwladwyr  eisiau  dim 
ond  gaUu  i  ymddial  ar  yr  holl  estroniaid  a''n  digyfoethawdd  yn 
ddiachos  gan  nas  gwnaeth  erioed  itti  niwed  lleiaf,  Syr  Bhobert  a 
aeth  adref  yn  bendrist  iawn  ac  a  alwodd  ynghyd  ei  farchogion  ag 
a  beris  roddi  yn  ol  ei  cyfoeth  i  bob  un  ni  fu'^n  y  Bhyfel  yn  ei  erbyn 
a  diliawV  Caethiwed  a  osodwyd  ganthynt  ar  y  wlad,  eithr  ni  fwyt- 
todd  Syr  Bobert  fara  iach  byth  a  bu  farw  o'^r  diwedd  o  wallgof  a 
chynddaredd.  yn  amser  Syr  Bobert  y  cymerth  Harri  frenin  y  cyn- 
taf  Nest  ferch  Bhys  ab  Tewdwr  yn  rhith  gwraig  iddo  ac  a  f a  fyw 
gyda  hi  yng  nghastell  Caerdydd  ai  Ystafell  oedd  yn  Nhwr  y  llew 
Ue  arosai  Brenin  bob  amser  a  fyddai  ynghaerdydd,  a  mab  a  fu  Vr 
Brenin  o  nest  ac  ef  a  elwid  Bobert  ac  a  fagwyd  gyda  merch  Syr 
Bobert  yr  hon  a  elwid  mabilia  a  phan  ddaethant  i  oedran  hwy  a 
briodasant  a''r  Brenin  a  wnaeth  ef  yn  larll  Gaerloyw  ai  wraig  ef 
oedd  unig  blentyn  a  thifeddes  Sir  Bobert  ac  felly  ar  ol  ei  farwol- 
aeth  ef  yndaeth  y  larll  Bobert  yn  Dywysog  neu  Arlwydd  Mor- 
ganwg ynghyfiawnder  ei  wraig  ef  Bhyfelwr  Dewr  iawn  oedd  y 
Bhobert  hynn  aV  glewaf  o'i  gyfoediawn,  efe  a  gymerth  Ban  gydaV 
ymherodres  Mallt  yn  erbyn  y  Brenin  a  phan  a  gymerwyd  y  Brenin 


YR   ARLWYDDI    ESTRONIAID.  17 

yn  garcharor  efe  a  newidiwyd  yn  lleV  Brenin,  yn  ei  amser  ef  y 
gwnaethpwyd  llawer  cyfraith  dda  er  lies  y  wlad  ac  a  roddwyd  ei 
cysefin  fraint  i  frodorion  Morganwg  ac  y  caewyd  lawer  iawn  o  dir- 
oedd  y  fro  a'r  Rhobert  hynn  gan  ei  eni'n  gymro  a  fu  fawr  ei  gariad 
yn  ei  wlad,  ac  a  gyflawnodd  lawer  iawn  ar  y  diffyg  a  f u  o  achos 
Rhyfel  lestyn,  on  mab  a  fu  iddynt  a  elwid  William  ac  ef  a  eti- 
feddodd  yr  Arlwyddiaeth. 

William  ab  Bobert  Arlwydd  'Morganwg  ac  larll  Gaerloyw  a  fu 
Arlwydd  Uonydd  iawn  ac  heddychol  ac  iddo  y  bu  dwy  ferch  Amic 
ac  Ysbel,  Ysbel  a  briodes  y  Brenin  Sion  o  Lundain  Brenin  Lloegr, 
yF  hwn  Sion  oedd  4^*^  fab  i  HarriV  ail  Brenin  Llundain  ac  ynghyf- 
iawnder  ei  wraig  yn  Arlwydd  Morganwg.  amic  a  briodes  Gilbert 
larll  y  Glâr  ac  ef  ynghyfiawnd  ei  wraig  a  fu  gydben  Arlwydd 
Morganwg  aV  Brenin  Sion,  a  mab  a  fu  i  Gilbert  ac  Amic  a  elwid 

Gilbert  larll  y  Clar  a  Chaerloyw,  ac  Arlwydd  Morganwg  yn 
gydran  gydben  aV  Brenin,  eithr  y  Brenin  a  roddes  ei  ran  oV  Cyf- 
oeth  ar  Penneigiaeth  i  Gilbert  a'i  etifeddion  mewn  bawl  drosto  a'r 
,  Brenhinoedd  ar  ei  ol  ef  a  hynny  a  beris  dyfod  a  dull  Cyfraith 
Londain  ar  y  wlad,  y  Gilbert  hwn  a  briodes  Ysbel  merch  Bhisiart 
Marsial  larll  Penfrt)  a  mab  fu  iddynt  a  elwid  Bhisiart 

Rhiaiart  larll  y  Glar  a  Chaerloyw  ac  Arlwydd  ar  hoU  Forganwg 
a  aned  yn  nhref  Beferad  a  gwr  dewr  oedd  ef  efe  a  wnaeth  lawer  o 
les  Yt  wlad  a  mab  iddo  a  elwid  Gilbert  a  ddaeth  ar  ei  ol, 

Gilbert  larll  y  Clar  a  Chaerloyw  ac  Arlwydd  Morganwg  a  gafodd 
fab  a  elwid  Gilbert 

Gibert  larll  y  Clar  a  Chaerloyw  ac  Arlwydd  Morganwg  a  fu  wr 
hael  iawn  i  Forganwg  ac  a  wnaeth  lawer  o  dai  i  dlydion  a  rhoddi 
iddynt  bloryn  o  dir  Gardd  a  pherllan  a  gwyr  o  Norddmandi  i 
ddysgu  trin  y  tir  yn  y  wlad,  mab  a  fu  iddo  a  elwid  Gilbert  a  merch 
a  elwid  Eleanor. 

Gilbert  larll  y  Clar  a  Chaerloyw  ac  Arlwydd  Morganwg  a  gafodd 
ei  ladd  yn  yr  ymladdfa  fawr  rhwng  y  Brenin  Edwart  yr  ail  ai 
Saeson  yn  erbyn  Rhobert  Bruce  ai  yscotiaid  lie  cafodd  30000  o 
scotiaid  y  trechaf  o  lawer  ar  100000  o  Saeson  ar  ymladd  hon  a 
fu  mewn  Ue  a  elwid  Bannwg  Cingsbwrw,  ac  am  nad  oedd  i  Gilbert 
wraig  fe  fu  farw  yn  ddietifedd  ai  chwaer  Eleanor  a  gafas  yr  Ar- 
lwyddiaeth ac  larllaeth  Caerloyw  ar  ei  ol  ef. 

Eleanor  chwaer  a  thifeddes  i'r  Arlwydd  Gilbert  a  briodes  Hugh* 


♦  Mae  J  Cyfysgrif  ymnuL  yn  anghyflawn. — Ab  Iolo. 


BRENHINOEDD  GLYWYSYG, 

SEF  Y  WLAD  A  ELWIR  Y  WEITH  HONN   CANTREF   GWAUNLLWG  Y 

RWNG  AFON  WYSG  O  DU  GWENT,  AC  AFON  ELERCH  SEF  HONNO 

RHYMNI  FAWR  O  DU  CEBWYR  YM  MORGANWC, 

Sep  cjntaf  wedi  ftdynnill  en  coron  oV  Bryttaniaid  yn  nawdd 
Owain  Finddu  ap  Masgen  wledig  ydoedd  Gljrwys  ab  Tegid  ab 
Gadell  hen  Brenin  Tejmllwg.  ac  efe  a  gafaa  Frenhiniaeth  ar  Gan- 
tref  G-waunllyg  j  dan  y  Terfynau  a  gyfeirydwyd,  ac  oi  enw  ei  hun 
y  galwes  efe  y  wlad  honno  Glywysyg,  aV  ymgynnal  yng  Nghaer- 
llion  ar  Wysg. 

Ail  y  bu  Gwynlliw  Filwr  ap  Glywys  He  ydd  oedd  ef  yn  ym- 
gnnal  Caerfule  lie  y  gwnaeth  efe  Eglwys  Gwynlliw  fal  ag  ai  gwelir 
heddyw,  Mab  Gwynlliw  ydoedd  Cattwg  Sant  o  Lancarfan  ac  efe  ni 
fynnai^r  frenhinaeth,  namyn  ymfeud¥ryaw  yn  yr  Eglwys  a  wnaetb- 
oedd  efe  yn  Llancarfan,  ac  efe  a  roddes  frenhiniaeth  Glewysyg  iddei 
Gar  cyflin  Morgan  Morganwg,  a  elwir  Morgan  Mwynfawr,  ac  efe 
yn  Frenin  Penrhaith  ar  holl  Forganwg  o  Afon  Wysg  ar  occed 
Gwent  hyd  Afon  Tawy  am  Dir  Gwyr  a  Bhiaeth  Bheged,  ac  efe 
nid  amgen  y  Morgan  hwnnw  ydoedd  y  Trydydd  Frenin  Glywysyg. 
ac  ar  ol  Morgan  y  daeth  ei  fab  ef  sef 

Ithel  fab  Morgan  yn  bedwerydd,  ac  efe  a  roddes  roddion  an- 
rhydeddus  o  diroedd  a  daoedd  byd,  yn  wartheg,  ac  aor,  ac  ariant, 
a  thlysau  Vr  Eglwysydd  aV  Goran  Saint. 

Bhodri  mab  Ithel,  mab  Morgan  frenin,  a  fuV  bammed  Frenin 
Glywysyg,  ac  efe  a  ddodes  lawer  o  roddion  i  Dduw  aV  Saint  yn 
dragywydd. 

Meyryg  ab  Bhodri  mab  Ithel  mab  Morgan  Mwynfawr,  a  fu^n 
chweched  Brenin  Glywysyg,  efe  a  wnaeth  Gastell  yng  Nghaèrllion 
ar  wysg,  ag  on  arall  yn  y  lie  a  elwir  Meigen  Gil  Geincoed,  ar  agos 
afon  Bhymni.  gwr  creulawn  oedd  efe,  ag  efe  a  laddwyd  gan  wyr 
Morganwg,  Ue  ai  taflasant  ef  bendramwnwg  dros  y  glogwyn  Vt 
mor,  am  a  fynnai  yng  ngham  a  merch  gwr  o  Bendefig  anrhyd- 
eddus. 

Bhys  ab  Bhodri  mab  Ithel  a  fu^n  Seithfed  Frenin  Glywysyg, 
efe  a  wnaeth  lawer  o  Eglwysydd  yn  ei  wlad,  ac  laddws  lawer  o 
Saeson,  Ue  ydd  oeddent  naw  am  bob  un  oi  wyr  ef,  ar  Ian  Afon 
Elerch  Ue  daethant  i  dir,  aV  Ue  a  weUr  hyd  heddyw,  yn  gaerau 
cedym  cyfamgylch.  ac  ni  chad  mab  iddaw  gwedi  ei  fyned  ni  wy- 


BRENHINOEDD    GLYWYSYG.  19 

buwyd  fyth  i  ba  le,  Yna  ymhen  j  taîr  blynedd  Cyfraîth,  rhodd- 
wyd  y  Frenhinaeth  iddei  frawd  Ffernfail. 

Ffemfisdl  ab  Rhodri  mab  Ithel  mab  Morgan  frenin  a  fu  yr  wyth- 
fed  frenin  Glywysyg,  efe  a  wnaeth  elusenau  o  dai  a  thiroedd  a 
daoedd  bydawl,  Tr  Saint  ac  Vr  tylodion,  ac  ymhen  Blynyddau  fe 
ddaeth  Bhys  ei  frawd  yn  ol  oV  coll  a  welwyd  amo  yn  briod  a 
phedefiges  o  Bufain  a  hithau'n  gares  o  waed  iddaw,  yna  Ffernfail 
a  fynnai  roddi'n  ol  y  frenhinaeth  iddaw,  ag  ni  fynnai  Rys  hynny. 
a  gwedi  marw  Ffernfail,  ydd  aeth  Hywel  fab  Rhys  yn  nawfed 
frenin  Glywysyg,  aV  Saeson  a  laddasant  ei  hoU  blant  ef  o  frad 
Gynllwyn  yn  nyfnder  heddwch  a  thwng  tangnef  cywlad.  a  gwedi 
marw  Hywel  ab  Bhys,  fe  aeth  Frenhinaeth  Glywysyg  ym  Mraint 
hawl  o  Ben  raith  yn  nn  a  Brenhinaeth  Morganwg  fal  y  ba  cyn 
nog  amser  Glywys  ap  Tegid.  ac  felly  terfyna'r  gyfarwyddyd  parth 
Ach  a  bonedd  am  Naw  Brenin  Glywysyg.  gwedi  hynny  fe  fynnaiV 
Saeson  yrm  Brenhinoedd  ar  wlad  Glywysyg,  ag  ni  bu  nemmor 
haws  iddynt.  canys  gwyr  y  wlad  ai  lladdaint  yr  hoU  wyr  difrawd 
a  ddodwyd  yn  frenhinoedd  amynt  gan  y  Saeson.  a^r  gyfarwyddyd 
honn  a  ddodwyd  ar  gof  Llyfr  gan  Gradawc  offeiriad  yn  Llancarfan 
yn  Amser  Harri  frenin  y  cyntaf  oM  ddirfawr  wybodau  ar  bob 
Ayfrau  Gy&rwyddyd,  ac  achau  bonedd,  a  gwybodau  Treigl  gwlad 
a  Chenedl  y  Cymry.* 


*  O  ach  lestin  ap  Gwrgan,  Llyfr  Watkin  Giles  o  Langaima. 


lESTYN   AB    GWRGAN. 

Yr  achos  o'r  Rhyfel  rhwng  lestyn  a  Rhys  ab  Tewdwr  oedd  hyn 
wedi  marw  owain  ab  Hywel  dda  y  daeth  Meredydd  ei  &b  î  Lyw- 
odraeth  a  darpani  Bhyfel  a  wnaeth  yn  erbyn  Owain  Arglwydd 
Morganwg  o  achos  yr  hen  amryson  a  fu  rhwng  Owain  ab  Hywel 
ag  owain  ab  Morgan  am  dir  Gwyr  ystrad  yw  ag  Eas,  a  gorfii 
owain  ar  feredydd,  ag  yn  y  flwyddyn  998  bu  farw  meredydd  ab 
Owen,  ag  yr  aeth  Aedan  ab  Blegwryd  ab  Morgan  mynfawr  yn 
frenin  ar  holl  Gymru  ac  ef  a  laddwyd  gan  Lywelyn  ab  seisyllt  yr 
hwn  Lywelyn  a  aeth  yn  frenin  holl  Gymry  ag  wedi  iddo  farw  I 
cymerth  lago  ab  Eidwal  Gyfoeth  Gwynedd  ai  ^llywodraeth  a 
Rhydderch  ab  lestyn  ab  Gwrgan  drwy  nerth  ei  ewythr  a  gymerth 
amo  Dywysogaeth  y  Deau  ag  ef  a  wnaeth  Gastell  er  cynnal  ei 
Lys  ynddo  ynghhaerdydd  ag  yno  y  cynneiliau  a  thyna'r  pryd  y 
gwnaethpwyd  Gastell  gyntaf  ynghaerdydd,  eithr  Hywel  ab  Edwin 
ab  Einion  ab  Owain  ab  Hywel  dda  ai  frawd  Meredydd  a  ddaethant 
i  Gymru  a  Uu  cadam  o  wyddelod  ag  a  laddasant  Rhydderch  ag  M 
hynny  cawsant  hwy  lywodraeth  y  Deau  eill  dau.  eithr  meibion 
Rhydderch  a  Liu  o  wyr  Morganwg  a  Gwent  a  brofasant  adynill  y 
dywysogaeth  a  dial  Lladdiant  eu  tad,  a  Hywel  a  meredydd  a 
gwrddodd  a  nhwy  yn  y  Rhaethwy  a  gwedi  mawr  ymladd  y  gorfu- 
wyd  ar  feibion  Rhydderch  y  flwyddyn  wedi  hynny  y  lias  feredydd 
ab  Edwin  gan  feib  Cynan  ab  Seisyllt  brawd  Ll°.  ab  Seisyllt  er  dial 
angeu  eu  hewyrth  yr  hwn  a  laddwyd  Gan  Hywel  a  Meredydd 
feibion  Edwin,  y  flwyddyn  nesaf  yr  anogawydd  Hywel  ab  Ed- 
win lu  o  saeson  i  ddyfod  i  went  er  difa  cyfoeth  Garadoc  ab 
Rhydderch  ab  lestyn  Arglwydd  Caerlleon  a  Gwaunllwg  a  dwy- 
went  isaf  ag  yno  y  Uaddwyd  Garadoc  yr  hyn  a  wnaeth  I  lestyn 
gyffroi  yn  erbyn  Hywel.  ag  anog  Gruff"  ab  Llywelyn  ab  Seisyllt 
Tywysog  Gwynedd  a  wnaeth  ef  lestyn  yn  erbyn  Hywel  ai  yrru 
ef  ar  ffb  a  wnaeth  ef,  yny  flwyddyn  1038. 

Yny  flwyddyn  1042  y  bu  farw  Hywel  ab  Owain  Arlwydd  Mor- 
ganwg Brenin  da  oedd  ef  ai  amcan  ar  heddwch  pei  cawsai  gan  ei 
berthyniaid,  ag  ar  ol  Hywel  y  daeth  ei  frawd  Ithel  yn  dywysog 
ag  ef  a  fu  wr  da  yn  y  wlad  ond  a  fu  farw  yn  ebrwydd  ag  wedi  ei 
farw  y  daeth  ei  fab  Gwrgan  i  liwio  Morganwg  a  Hywel  ab  Edwin 
yn  yr  amser  hynny  a  geisiodd  ddadynill  ei  deymas  oddiar  Rufiydd 
ab  Llywelyn  brenin  Gwynedd  eithr  Hywel  a  gruffydd  a  orfu  ar  ei 
wvr  ef   wedi  marw  H\^el  ef  a  anieanasant  Rvddorch  a  Rhys 


IE8TYN  AB   GWRGAN.  21 

meibion  Bhjdderch  ab  lestyn  ftdynill  Deheubarth  a  gwladychu 
ami,  yn  hawl  arfau  eu  tad,  y  ddauwr  hyn  a  gynnullasant  la  mawr 
o  wyr  Gwent  a  Morganwg,  ag  a  gyfarfuant  a  GruflF  ab  Llyw- 
elyn  a  gruff  a  ddaeth  iw  cyfarfod  ag  ymladd  gwaedl  jn  iawn  a  fu 
oni  orfii  ar  Bofiydd  dan  gel  nos  fyned  ymaith  ef  ai  wyr  tua  Gwy- 
nedd  ag  ofn  ar  Bydderch  a  Bhys  en  Calyn  herwydd  y  colled  a 
gawsant  mewn  Gwỳr.  ag  fal  hyn  y  dywelodd  pob  ochr  iw  Gwled- 
ydd  er  ymgryfhau  ym  mhellach  mewn  GFwŷr  a  moddion  Bhyfel 
wedi  hyn  y  bu  heddwch  dros  ryw  ychydig  o  flwyddynau. 

Yny  flwyddyn  1060  y  bu  eeuw  owain  ab  Gruff  ab  Bhydderch 
ab  lestyn  yna  Garadoc  ab  Gruff  ab  Bhydderch  ab  lestyn  a  gasgl- 
odd  lu  mawr  o  wyr  Gwent  a  Morganwg  ag  a  geisiasant  gyda  hynny 
gynnorthiant  gan  Harallt  a  Thosti  ei  frawd  ag  a  aethant  i  ddeheu- 
barth  ag  hwy  a  weithiasant  felly  ar  wyr  Gruff  Twysog  Gwynedd 
&1  y  Uaddasant  hwy  ef  a  gwedi  colliV  tywysog  y  buant  yn  hawdd 
fiiddugawl  ar  wyr  Gh¥ynedd,  oed  Grist  pan  fu  hyn  oedd  1061. 

Wedi  marw  Gruff  ab  LI'  y  daeth  Meredydd  ab  Owain  ab  Edwin 
ab  Hywel  dda  i  wladych  Deheubarth,  yr  amser  hyn  y  deoles  y 
Brenin  Eklward  Dosti  Bencynnadl  y  Gogledd  oV  Deymas  ag  y 
darfu  i  wyr  y  Gbgledd  ddewis  Marser  yn  larll  amynt  a  gofyn  cyn- 
northwy  o  GÍymry  yn  ei  plaid  a  wnaethant  a  hynny  a  gawsant  gan 
Wrgan  ab  Ithel  ai  fab  lestyn  Arlwyddi  Morganwg  a  buant  fudd- 
ugawl  a'r  Arlwyddi  hyn  o  Gymry  a  ddychwelasant  adref  yn  llawn 
cyfoeth  ag  anrydedd 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1068  y  cymmerth  Wrgan  ag  lestyn  blaid  Bledd- 
yn  ab  Cynfyn  yn  erbyn  Meredydd  mab  Gruff  ab  LI",  a  buant  fudd- 
ogawl  ar  feredydd  ag  ynillodd  Bleddyn  Dywysogaeth  Gwynedd  a 
Phowys  oU. 

Yr  oedd  lestyn  ab  yr  Arlwydd  Gwrgan  yn  briod  a  Denis  ach 
Bleddyn  ab  Cynfyn  oi  wraig  gyntaf  sef  oedd  honno  Haer  ach  Cy- 
hylan,  ag  am  hynn  yr  oedd  mawr  gariadaeth  ryngtyn,  yny  flwy- 
ddyn 1070  y  daeth  Caradoc  ab  Gruff  ab  Bhydderch  ab  lestyn  a  a 
Ilu  o  normaniaid  gydag  ef  yn  gymmorth  yn  erbyn  meredydd  ab 
Owain  ab  Edwin  Brenin  y  Deau,  ag  ymhlaid  Caradoc  y  daeth 
lestyn  ab  Gvrrgan  a  Uu  mawr  o  wyr  Morganwg  yn  y  frwydr  hon 
J  Lias  feredydd  ar  Ian  afon  Bhymni  yn  y  Lie  a  elwir  y  Bhath 
agos  i  Gastell  Caerdyf  ag  yna  y  daeth  Garadoc  i  wladychu  Deheu- 
kar  eithr  yn  ebrwydd  wedi  hynny  y  bu  cf  farw  ai  fab  Bhydderch 
ab  Caradoc  a  wladychodd  ar  ei  ol  ai  Lys  oedd  yn  Nhref  Beferad, 

Yny  flwyddyn  1072  y  cymmerth  Garadoc  ab  Gruff  ab  Bhydd- 
erch blaid  Gi'ouwv  a  Llvwelvn  meibion  Cadw<ran  ab  Bleddvn  ab 


22  lESTYN   AB   GWRGAN. 

Gynfyn,  yn  erbyn  Bhys  ab  owain  ab  Edwin  yr  hwn  a  laddasai 
ou  tad  Cu  a  buddugawl  y  buant 

Yny  flwyddyn  1074  y  lladdwyd  Bhydderch  drwy  dwyll  Meir- 
chion  ab  Bhys  ab  Bhydderch  ei  ge&derw  wedi  marw  Bhydderch  y 
Llywiodd  Rhys  ab  Owain  Ddeheubarth  ei  bun  Lle^r  oeddent  oV  blarâ 
y  cydwladychu  ar  cyttundeb  oedd  y  cai  Etifeddion  y  Gwladychiad 
fyned  i  eppil  Bhydderch  ab  Oaradoc,  yn  ebrwydd  wedin  y  lias 
Éhys  ab  Owain  Tywysog  Deheubarih  a  Hywel  ei  &awd  yn  agos  i 
Lanilltud  fawr  Lie  y  ffoasaint  yn  nawdd  Seintwar  Illtud. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1077,  y  dechreuodd  Bhys  ab  Tewdwr  wladychu 
Deheubarih  megis  cyfiawn  Difedd  dad  i  dad  o  Bodri  mawr,  yr  un 
amser  y  daeth  Grafi*  ab  Cynan  y  iawn  Difedd  i  Dywysogaeih 
Gwynedd,  a  Ghymru  ynawr  oil  gan  eu  hiawn  Difeddion  a  da  iawn 
a  fuasai  iV  wlad  pei  felly  y  cawsai  fod  ag  aros,  ond  lestyn  ab 
Gwrgan  ynawr  wedi  dyfod  i  wladychu  Morganwg  ar  ol  ei  Dad  yr 
hwn  a  fuasai  farw  yn  cheugein  mlwydd  oed  a  saith  ag  lestyn  yntef 
yn  gant  a  chwemlwydd  oed  ag  felly  y  dybygid  yn  rhy  hen  i  ar- 
ddelw  Brenhiniaeth  ddaearol,  eithr  ei  harddelw  a  wnaeth  ef,  sef 
arddelw  Brenhiniaeth  Ddeheubarth  ymhlaid  ei  Dylwyth  sef  ei 
orwyron,  ag  am  hynn  y  cynnillawdd  lu  mawr  yn  erbyn  Bhys  ab 
Tewdwr,  a  chydag  ef  Madog  Cadwgan  a  Ehyryd  meibion  Bleddyn 
ab  Cynfyn,  a  gorfu  ar  Bys  ffbi  iV  Werddon  lie  cafodd  ef  lawer.o 
gariad  a  nerth  gwyr  a  moddion  Bhyfel  a  dychwel  a  wnaeth  ef  a 
Llynges  drom  i  Ddeheubarth  ag  a  fu  fuddugawl  amynt  yngwaith 
Llechryd  lie  lias  Madog  a  Bhyryd  a  gorfu  ar  Gb^wgan  ffoi  6*r 
wlad  yn  llwyr,  a  heddwch  dros  ryw  faint  o  flwyddi  sef  hyd  y 
flwyddyn  1089  pan  fu  farw  Gadifor  ab  Collwyn  Arlwydd  Dyfed 
ai  feibion  ef  sef  Llywelyn  ag  Einion  a  anogasant  Bufiydd  ab  Me- 
redydd  i  frwydr  yn  erbyn  eu  harlgwydd  a'u  Brenin  Bhys  ab  Tew- 
dwr, (ag  felly  hyd  ddiwedd  yr  hanes) 

Wedi  digyfoethogi  lestin  fal  hyn  gan  y  Ffreingc  yr  aeth  efe  ar 
gil,  ag  a  fu  farw  ynghensan  yn  gant  ag  unmlwydd  ar  ddeg  oed  gan 
adael  ar  ei  ol  naw  mab  a  merch  trugain  a  chwech  o  wyron  Gant  ag 
un  ar  deugain  o  orwyron  deucant  a  naw  goresgynydd  a  phymtheg 
gorchaw.  ag  un  mab  a  fu  farw  oi  flaen  naw  wyr  pump  orwyr  a  dau 
oresgynnydd  ac  un  gorchaw,  sef  oeddent  oil  oi  dylwyth.  i  gyd  yn 
bedwar  cant  a  deugain  a  naw.  ag  ef  oedd  y  Tywysog  amlaf  ei  dy- 
lwyth a  fu  erioed  yn  Ynys  Prydain  ag  ef  a  gafodd  lestyn  weled 
mab  gorwyr  a  goresgynydd  yn  frenhinoedd  yr  hyn  ni  chafas  Ddyn 
erioed  oV  blaen  ei  weled. 


TYWYSOGAETH  lESTIN  AB  GWRGAN. 

iBflrriN  ab  Ghn-gan  oedd  Djrwysog  ar  Wlad  Forgan  yn  Amser  y 
Brenin  William  Gh>cli,  ag  yng  Ngwlad  Forgan  ydd  oedd  y  gwled- 
ydd  hynn  yn  cael  eu  cyfrif  yr  amser  hynny.  yn  Gyntaf  a  Phennaf, 
Morganwg,  a  than  yr  enw  hynny  ydd  oedd  yr  hoU  Wlad  o  Afon 
Wysg  hyd  Afon  Nedd,  ac  or  mor  in  mynyddau  duon. 

Yn  ail  Gwent,  a  than  yr  enw  hynny  yr  hoU  wlad  rhwng  wysg 
ag  Wy,  ar  parthau  uchaf  o  went  a  elwir  Ergain  ag  Eäs  ag  ystrad 
yw,  a  elwir  Tair  Llawes  Gwent, 

Yn  Drydydd  y  Cantre  Coch  rhwng  Gwy  a  hafren  hyd  Bont 
Oaerloyw.  ag  odcU  yno  hyd  Henffbrdd. 

Yn  bedweryd  ydd  oedd  y  Cantre  a  elwir  hefyd  yr  hwndrwd 
mewn  rhai  lyfrao,  rhwng  Nedd  a  Thawe. 

Yn  biunmed  Gwyr  rhwng  Tawe  a  Thywi  cy  belled  ac  y  mae'*r 
Triehwmwd  yn  cyrraedd  ar  hoU  Wledydd  hynn  yn  perthyn  i  Ben 
Arlwyddiaeth  neu  dywysogaeth  Morganwg  Er  Amser  y  Brenin 
Arthur,  ond  pan  rhannwys  Bhodri  Mawr  ei  Arlwyddiaeth  rhyng 
ei  dri  mab  fe  gas  Gadell  y  mab  hena  Ddeheubarth,  a  Ghadell  ai 
Eppil  a  fynnent  taw  nhwy  a  ddylasant  Arlwyddiaeth  ar  Wledydd 
Gwyr  a  Charwyllon,  a  hynn  an  achos  Rhyfel  rhwng  Gwlad  for- 
gan a  Deheubarth,  lawer  gwaith  o  amser  Gadell  hyd  amser  lestin 
ab  Gwrgan,  Pan  oedd  Gwrgan  ap  Ithel  ap  Morgan  Hen  yn  Dy- 
wysog  Morganwg  fe  gwmnwys  Ehydderch  ab  lestyn  ab  Gwrgan 
lu  mawr  o  wyr  ag  a  ennillwys  Arlwyddiaeth  Deheubarth  ag  a  fu'n 
dywysog  ar  Ddeheubarth  a  mab  iddo  ar  ei  ol,  ag.  ar  ol  hynny  bu 
wyron  iddo'^n  Dywysogion  Deheubarth,  ond  or  diwedd  fe  nillwj's 
Rhys  ap  Tewdwr  rann  fawr  o  Ddeheubarth  oddiar  wyron  lestin 
yn  ol,  ond  parhau  wnaeth  y  Rhyfel,  ag  fel  ag  oedd  wyr  arall  i 
lestin  a  elwid  Treham  ab  Cradog  wedi  bod  yn  Dywysog  Gwynedd 
yn  hir  ac  or  diwedd  wedi  cael  y  gwaetha  ai  ladd  gan  Ryffydd  ab 
Gynan  fe  drows  Grufiydd  o  blaid  Rhys  yn  erbyn  lestin,  ag  yn 
erbyn  pob  Pendefig  a  f u  o  blaîd  meibon  ag  wyron  lestin  tra  buon 
nh¥ry  yn  Dywysogion  Deheubarth  ag  ym  mysg  eraill  ydd  oedd 
Pendefig  urddasol  yn  Arlwydd  Maenor  deifi  ai  enw  Einon  ab 
Collwyn,  a  Rhys  ab  Tewdwr  a  gymmerwys  ei  boll  feddiant  ai 
foddion  aer  a  ffynniirwys  drichan  pen  o  warthcff  a  mil  o  erwi  o  dir 


24  PLANT   lESTYN   AB   GWRGAN. 

rhydd  Arlwyddiaethol  Tr  un  a  ddalai  Einon  nag  a  ddelai  ac  efe  at 
Rys  ab  Tewdwr  y  naill  nag  yn  fyw  nag  yn  farw.  ag  o  achos  hynn  gan 
fod  lie  iddo  ofni  brad  fe  Gilwys  Einon  ab  Gollwyn  i  wlad  Forgan 
at  lestin  ab  Gwrgan  yr  hwn  oedd  ewythr  iddo,  a  gwedi  gwneathur 
ei  Gwyn  ag  adrodd  y  cyfan  lestin  a  gynghorwys  iddo  fyned  i 
Lundain  lleMd,  oedd  ef  yn  gydnabyddus  a  gwyr  mawnon  y  Brenin 
Wiliam  Bihiwfiws,  ag  mewn  parch  gydaV  Brenin  ei  hunan  cans 
efe  Einion  a  fuasai^n  dwyn  swydd  anrhydeddos  dan  y  Brenin 
yn  ei  ryfeloedd. 


LLYMA  DDANGOS  PLANT  lESTIN  AB  GWRGAN.» 

GwRAJG  gyntaf  lestin  ab  Gwrgan  oedd  Denys  ferch  Bleddyn  ab 
Cynfyn  Tywysog  Pywys,  ag  yn  oddawl  gyda  hi  Arlwyddiaeth 
Cibwr  ym  Morganwg,  yna  gwneuthur  CasteU  yng  Nghaer  Dydd  a 
wnaeth  lestin  ag  iddei  wraig  gastell  arall  yn  y  lie  a  elwir  o  honi 
Denys  Pywys,  a  thre&u  Arlwyddiaeth  arddelw  i'r  CastelL  ag  Vt 
Castell  a^i  gyfoeth  Braint  Brenin  a  Llys  ag  o'r  wraig  honno  ganed 
I  lestin,  ac  y  bu  wyth  o  blant,  nid  amgen, 

1.  Bhydderch  ab  lestin  a  gafas  Arlwyddiaeth  Gwann  Llwg,  aV 
Pencyfeistedd  yng  Nghaer  llion  ar  wysg,  ag  efe  a  ennillwya  Dy- 
wysogaeth  Deheubarth,  a  phlant  hefyd  ac  wyron  iddo  a  fuant  yn 
Dywysogion  yn  Neheubarth,  ac  yn  hawl  ammod  Priodas  ei  dad  ai 
Fam  dan  rhwymau  gweithredol  i  Fleddyn  ab  Cynfyn  y  cafas 
Rydderch  ag  efe'n  fab  Hynaf  Arlwyddiaeth  Caerllion  ar  Wysg 
yn  Wresgynaeth, 

2.  Meredydd  ab  lestin, 

3.  Cadwgan  ab  lestin, 

4.  Gruffydd  ab  lestin  a  gafas  Arlwyddiaeth  y  Coetty  yn  wres- 
gynaeth ac  yn  ddyled  talu  nobl  aur  yn  y  flwyddyn  iddei  Frawd 
Garadawc  ab  lestin  a  wnaethpwyd  gan  ei  Dad  yn  Arlwydd 
Morganwg. 


♦  Llyfr  Watkin  Giles. 


PLANT   lESTYN    AB   GWRGAN.  25 

I  Boffydd  ab  lestyn  o"*!  Coetty  j  bu  fab  ai  onw  Meuryg  goreu 
o  neb  yn  ei  amser  am  bob  campau  Bonedd  a  milwriaeui  ac  o 
hynny  y  cafwyd  y  ddiareb 

Enw  mawr  yw  enw  Meyrig 

Fr  Meyrig  hwnnw  y  bu  fab  ai  enw  Morgan  ab  Meyrig,  ag  iV 
Morgan  hwn  y  bu  ferch  a'i  henw  Sara  yn  unig  blentyn  a  Thî- 
feddes,  a  honno  a  briodes  Syr  Paen  Twrbil  yr  hwn  a  gafas  o  hynny 
gyfiawnder  ar  Arlwyddiaeth  y  Coetty.  ag  ni  chaid  oddiar  ei  law 
na  thai,  na  gwarogaeth,  na  gwrogaeth  I  Syr  Robert  ffitsaimon — 
am  hynny  Paen  Gythraul  y  galwaiV  Ffrancod  efo. 

6.  Khiwallon  ab  lestin,  a  gafas  Diroedd  yn  y  Cortwyl  yn 
Ffrainc  gan  Syr  Robert  ffitsaimwn. 

6.  Morgan  Hir  ab  lestin,  a  gafas  Dir  Cyfoeth  ym  Meisgin. 

7.  Hen  ferch  lestin  a  briodes  Trym.ab  Maenarch  Arlwydd 
Brycheiniog.  a  honno  a  Elwid  Elen  deg. 

8.  Gwenllian  ferch  lestin,  a  briodawdd  Ynyr  Brenin  Gwent  yr 
hwnn  oedd  yn  byw  yn  Llannfiwyst  yn  amser  EDWARD  GON- 
PESSOB. 

Ail  Wraig  lestyn  ab  Ghirrgan  oedd  Angharad  ferch  Elystan 
Glodrydd  Brenin  rhwng  Gwy  a  Hafren,  a  chyda  hi  yn  oddol  y 
Cantref  00ÇH  rwng  Gwy  a  Hafren^  ac  i  lestyn  ab  Gwrgan  oV 
Angharad  honn  y  bu  bump  o  blant.  nid  amgen 

1.  Caradawg  ab  lestyn,  ac  efe  a  gafas  Gyfoeth  rwng  Nedd  ag 
Afan  ac  a  wnaeth  Gastell  yn  Nhref  Aberafan  ag  ynoV  Pencyfeis- 
tedd,  ac  a  roddes  Diroedd  a  Breiniau  Dinasaid  i'r  Dref, 

2.  Madog  ab  lestin  a  gafas  Arglwyddiaeth  Rhuthin  gan  Syr 
Robert  ffitsaimwn. 

3.  Morgan  ab  lestin,  a  fu  farw  cyn  oed  gwr. 

4.  Rhys  ab  lestin.  a  gafas  Arlwyddiaeth  Soflen  rwng  Nedd 
a  Thawy. 

5.  Nest  ferch  lestin  a  gafas  Einion  ab  Collwyn  yn  wraig  iddo 
^n  Syr  Robert  Ffitsaimwn.  a  chyda  hi  yn  oddowl  Arglwydd- 
iaeth Sainghenydd,  a  Meisgyn. 

Hywel  ab  Madog  ab  lestin  a  gafas  Arlwyddiaeth  Llan  Tryddyd, 
iran  Syr  Robert  Ffitsaimwn,  a  mab  i  Hywel  ab  Madog  oedd  Cyn- 
frig  ab  Hywel  gwrolaf  o  neb  yn  ei  amser,  ag  efe  a  ddug  y  Cymry 
yn  erbyn  y  Ffrancod  ag  a  gafas  y  gorau  amynt,  a  chadw  ei  dda 
ai  ddwm  er  gwaetha  gwyr  Syr  Robert  Ffitsaimwn. 


LLYMA  WEHELYTH  CAERLLION  AR  WYSG.» 

1.  Rhydderch  ab  lestin  Arlwydd  OaerUion  ar  wysg  a  GhFaan 
Llwg.  ab  Gwrgan  ab  Ithel  ab  Morgan  Mawr  Brenin  Gwent  a 
Morganwg  ar  Gwledydd  hynn  ydynt  un  aV  wlad  a  elwid  Essyllwg 
yn  yr  hen  amseroedd,  eithr  yn  Essyllwg  yr  oedd  yr  holl  wlad 
rwng  Gwy  a  Thywy,  ar  Oantref  coch,  sef  rhwng  Gwy  a  Hafren  hyd 
Bont  Oaerloyw  hyd  y  cerddoV  wlad  o  Qtier  Ffawydd  hyd  Gaerloyw. 

2.  Gruffydd  ab  Rhydderch  ab  lestin.  TywysawgOaerllion  ar  wysg. 

3.  Garadawg  ab  Gruffydd  ab  Rhydderch  ab  lestin  ab  Gwrgan. 

4.  Rhydderch  ab  Gruffydd  ab  Rhydderch  ab  lestin. 

6.  Meredydd  ab  Gruffydd  ab  Rhydderch  ab  lestin  a  fii'n  Ar- 
lwydd Caerllion,  a  Hywel  ei  fab  ef  a  fu'*n  Arlwydd  y  Oantre 
Bychan  lie  bu  Meredydd  ei  Dad  ef  yn  Arglwydd  ac  o  hynny  y 
gelwid  y  Cantref  Bychan  Oyfoeth  Meredydd  ym  Morganwg. 

6.  Owain  ab  Oaradog  ab  Gruffydd  ab  Rhydderch  ab  lestin  ab 
Gwrgan  a  fu  ar  ol  Meredydd  yn  Arlwydd  Oaer  Llion  ar  Wysg. 

7.  lorwerth  ab  Owain  ei  fab  a  fu'n  Arlwydd  Caerllion  ac  ef  a 
wnaeth  G^tell  Mechain,  a  ChasteU  Gelligaer.  ac  efe  a  briodes 
Angharad  ferch  Uchtryd  Escob  Llandaf. 

8.  Hywel  ab  lorwerth  ab  Owain  arglwydd  Oaer  Llion  ar  wysg. 

9.  Morgan  ab  lorwerth  ab  Owain,  Arglwydd  Oaer  Llion  ar 
wysg,  yn  amser  y  Brenin  Edwart  y  Oyntaf  y  dygwyd  ei  gyfoeth 
oddiamaw  gwedi  Lladd  y  Tywysog  Llewelyn  ab  Gruffydd  o  Wy- 
nedd,  ag  yna  ynghylch  oed  Crist  mil  a  thrichant  y  darfu'^n  Ian  am 
Forgan  ab  Hywel  ab  lorwerth  ai  Freinioldeb  ynghaer  Llion  ar 
wysg  cans  Madog  fradwr  o  Wynedd  a'*i  bradyches  ef  onis  daliwyd 
gan  y  Brenin  Edward  yn  Garcharwr  ac  yngharchar  Oastell  Oaer 
Dydd  y  bu  efe  farw  ymhen  Blynyddau  lie  ai  coronwyd  ychydig  or 
blaen  yn  Frenin  ar  holl  Gymru ;  a  chwedi'r  gortrech  hynn  amaw 
ni  allawdd  un  Tywysawg  yng  Nghymru  ymgynnal  o  north  ar&u 
yn  erbyn  Brenin  Lloegr. 

PEDWAR  PENCYFEISTEDD  MORGANWG  YN  AMSER  lESTIN 
AB  GWRGAN.t 

Un,  Caerllion  ar  Wysg  yng  Nghantref  Gwaun  Llwg. 
Ail..  Oaer  Dydd,  He  y  gwnaeth  lestin  ab  Gwrgan  Grastell  a 
chaerau  cedyrn  o  newydd. 

Trydydd,  Tref  Byfered  >      Ag  yng  Nghantref  Gor- 

Pedwerydd,  Castell  Din  Dryfan  )        wenydd  y  ddau  hynn 

*  Llyfr  Meyryg  Dafydd  o  Lanisan.  t  O'r  un  llyfr. 


LLYMA  WEHELYTH  RIAL  Y  COETTY.» 

Y  DiwsTHAF  or  Britaniaid  a  fu  Arlwydd  y  Ooetty  oedd  Morgan, 
ab  Meyryg,  ab  Gniffydd,  ab  lestyn,  ab  Gwrgan.  A  merch  oedd 
iddaw  ef  a  elwid  Assar,  a  Sar  yw  ei  henw  mown  rhai  lyfrau.  y 
Ferch  honno  a  briodwya  aV  Twrbwrfil.  a  hwnnw  oedd  un  o'r  Tri 
Marchog  anrhaith  ar  ddeg  a  ddaethant  i  Forganwg.  yn  amser 
lestyn  ab  Gwrgan  i  Wladychu  gan  ddwyn  y  Frenhiniaeth  oddiar 
lesyn,  a^u  cyfoethoedd  oddiar  au  perchenogaint  a  hynn  a  fa  yn  y 
flwyddyn  oedran  Mab  Duw  1089. 

€hiiff)rdd  ab  lestyn  oedd  yn  dala  dan  ei  Frawd  Garadoc  ab  les^ 
tyn,  ag  yn  dwyn  nobl  iddo  bob  blwyddyn  meis  ydd  ys  yn  dwyn  i-r 
Brenin  y  sydd  Arlwydd  Morganwg  yn  awr. 

1.  Paen  Twrbwrfil  a  briodes  Assar  ferch  ag  unig  blentyn  ag  o 
hynny  Etifeddes  Morgan  ab  Meyryg  ab  Gruffydd  ab  lestyn  ab 
OwTgan  Brenin  Morganwg  a  Thywysog  Saith  Gantref  Essyllwg 
aef  yw  hynny  yr  holl  dir  o  Bont  Oaerloyw  hyd  afon  Tywy. 

2.  Syr  Simwnt  Twrbil  ab  Syr  Paen  ag  Assmt  Ferch  Forgan, 
efe  a  wnaeth  yr  Hen  Ghtstell  y  sydd  ym  Mhen  y  Bont  ar  Ogwyr. 

3.  Syr  Paen  yr  ail  ab  Syr  Simmwnt.  *ai  wraig  ef  oedd  Mallt, 
ferch  Morgan  Gam,  ab  Morgan,  ab  Garadoc  ab  lestyn  ab  Gwrgan. 

4.  Syr  Silbart  Twrbil,  ab  Syr  Paen  yr  ail  o  ferch  Morgan  Gam. 
6.  Syr  Paen  Twrbil  y  drydydd.  ab  Syr  Silbert. 

6.  Syr  Silbart  ei  frawd  a  ddaeth  ar  ei  ol  ef.  ag  a  fu  briod  a  Mei- 
wen  ferch  Gadwgan,  ab  Ithel,  ab  Ifor,  ab  Morgan,  ab  Garadog  ab 
lestyn  Arlwydd  Castell  ar  Alain. 

7.  Syr  Silbart  y  trydydd,  ab  Syr  Silbert  yr  ail,  a  fu  ar  ei  ol  ef. 

8.  Syr  Bisiart  ab  Syr  Silbart  y  drydydd,  a  fu  wedi  hynny. 

9.  Syr  Paen  Twrbil  y  drydydd  ab  Syr  Bisiart,  a  briod wys 
Wenllian  fercli  Syr  Bisiart  Tawbot,  ag  iddo  y  bu  pedwar  Mab  a 
phedair  Merch.  .  Sef  Silbart  a  Bhisiart,  a  Simmwnt,  ag  Edwart. 
ar  Merched  oeddynt  Annas  a  fu  briod  a  Syr  Sion  Dalabar  Arlwydd 
Gweble.  a  Marged  a  fu  briod  a  Syr  Bhisiart  Ystagbwl  ym  Mhen- 
fro.  a  Ghallin  a  fu  briod  a  Syr  Bhosser  Berclos  oV  Berllan  Newydd 
a  elwir  y  Norsied  jm  Llandathan.  ag  efe  oedd  Arglwydd  Llanda- 
than,  ag  Assar  a  fu  briod  a  Syr  William  Gamais  Arlwydd  y 
Bhogiaid  yng  Ngwent. 

*  O  Lyfr  Thomas  Ilopcin  o  Ijanprallo — medrl  ToU)  ^forgnnwg. 

E 


28  GWEHELYTH   RIAL   Y  COETTY. 

10.  Syr  Silbart  y  pedwerydd,  ab  Syr  Paen  y  Trydydd. 

11.  Syr  Silbart  y  bummed  ei  fab  a  fu  ar  ei  ol.  ag  ni  bu  iddo 
blant  0  briod 

12.  Syr  Risiart  ab  Syr  Paen  y  trydydd  a  fu  ar  ei  ol  ef.  ag  ni 
bu  iddo  blant  o  briod.  Mab  iddo  o'^i  gariadwraig  a  elwid  Simmwnt 
a  gymmerwys  y  cyfoeth  a^r  meddiant  ond  ni  chas  efe  eu  cadw  gan 
iddei  Dad  rwymoV  cyfan  wrth  Syr  Lawrens  BercloB  Arlwydd 
Llandathan,  ei  Nai  ish  Gallin  ei  chwaer  a  fu  briod  a  Syr  Bhosser 
Berclos. 

13.  Syr  Lawrens  Berclos,  a  fu  ar  ol  hynny  yn  Arlwydd  y  Ooety, 
ai  wraig  ef  oedd  Mallt  ferch  Syr  Thomas  Ysbenser  Arlwydd  Mor- 
ganwg,  ag  ynghastell  Ffili  yr  oedd  yn  byw,  a  honno  a  wenwynwya 
ei  gwr  Syr  Lawrens  Berclos  ag  efe  a  fu  &rw  a  hithau  a  gladdwyd 
yn  fyw  gan  £euii  Gwlad  aV  Arlwydd  Syr  Bhisiart  Began,  yr  hwn 
oedd  Arlwydd  Morganwg. 

Gwedi  marw  Syr  Lawrens  Berclos  y  daeth  y  meddiant  i 

14.  Syr  William  €bmais,  ab  Syr  Silbart,  ab  Syr  William 
€bmais  ag  Assar  ferch  Syr  Paen  Twrbil  y  drydydd,  ag  yna  gan 
Vr  cyfoeth  ar  meddiant  ddisgyn  dros  dair  gwaith  yng  ngfaogail  sef 
ym  mraint  Merch,  y  coUwyd  Arlwyddiaeth  Rial  y  Ooetty  a  myned 
i  Syr  Risiart  Began  a  wnaeth  yn  Sied,  fel  ag  y  mae  cyfraith  yn 
gofyn  sef  cyd  y  dychyn  meddiant  ni  ddychyn  Braint  ddigwydd  ar 
go  gaildros  dairgwaith  olynol.  a'r  Brenin  y  sydd  yn  avrr  yn  Arlwydd 
Llys  y  Goetty  ag  yn  Benrhaith  gwlad  a  Llys,  aV  Gamisiaid  ywV 
Arlwyddi  Cyfoeth,  ag  iddynt  y  perthyn  y  meddiant  a  Llys  Cy- 
foeth. ag  i'r  Brenin  Llys  Gwlad  aV  Rhianaeth. 

leuan  Deulwyn  a  ddy waid  yn  y  Llyfr  a  naeth  efe  o  son  am  Ar- 
lwyddi a  Marchogion  Morganwg,  taw  cam  yw  galw  y  Twrbwlfil 
yn  Farchawg  Anrhaith,  herwydd  fe  a  briodwys  a  merch  a  thifeddes 
y  perchen  Morgam  Amheyryg,  a  chael  wrth  hynny  difeddiaeth 
gyfiawn  ar  y  Cyfoeth  ar  lie  ym  mam  Duw  a  Dỳn.  ag  na  waeth  o 
bwy  Genedl  y  prioder  yn  gyfiawn  cyd  bo  a  brioder  o'^r  ffydd 
ynghrist  ag  yn  berchen  Cred  a  Bedydd.  a  charedig  ir  Cymry  y 
bur  Twrbiliaid  lawn  gyhyd  ag  y  buont  berchenorion  ar  y  Bian- 
aeth,  a  Breninaeth  y  Ooetty ;  yr  hynn  a  ddygwyd  oddiar  y 
Gamais  yn  amser  Syr  Rhisiart  Began,  Brenin  Morganwg,  fal  j 
dywespwyd  oV  blaen,  a  chyd  bo  iawn  iawn  Llys  Cyfoeth  a  Chyf- 
raith  iddynt  etto,  nid  iawn  iddynt  Raith  a  Llys  Gwlad  onid  gan 
gwyn  fel  ac  y  mae  i  bob  Cynhenid  araU.  ar  un  a  fo  Arglwydd 
Morganwg  a  biau'r  Pendodacth,  ac  y  sydd  Benrhaith,  heb  air 
neb  ar  ei  air  of 


ENGLYNION    COFUDUR,  29 

Yn  amser  larll  y  Glâr  diweddaf  y  collwyd  y  frenhinaeth  yng 
Ngfaenedl  Garadog  ab  lestyn  yng  Nghyfoeth  Aberavan  am  iddynt 
ddial  Iladd  yr  Arglwydd  Llywelyn  ab  OruSydd  o  Wynedd,  a 
tlirais  Owlad  oedd  dwyn  hynny  oddiar  y  G«nedl  Bwng  Nedd  ag 
A&n,  a  honno  a  fuV  Frenhinaeth  Bial  ddiweddaf  ynghymry  heb 
air  neb  ar  en  gair  hwy,  oddierth  y  Ooetty.  aV  ddwy  Arlwyddiaeth 
hyn  a  faont  megÌB  Pentewynion  yn  cynnal  yn  anni£fod  y  Braint  a 
ddyly^r  Genedl  Oymry,  ar  Fraint  honn  a  goUason  ni  am  ein 
Peehodan  a  digio  Duw  oni  ddaeth  dial  a  difraint  a  dwyn  ein  cyf- 
oeth  a^  Hawl  an  Braint  Penrhaith  oddiamom ;  ag  nid  oes  inni 
o  haiik  Genedl  onid  Enw  a^n  Hiaith  yr  honn  a  ddylyon  ni  ei 
chadw  ai  harfer  yn  ddilediaith  ac  ymarfer  a  phob  gwybodau  a 
diampaa  a  deddfan  daionus  fal  ydd  ennillon  ni  fodd  Dnw  a  ehlod 
gui  ddynion,  ag  o  hynny  y  daw  i  ben  ag  yn  wir  a  brofi^dai  y 
Beirdd  gef  y  caffismt  y  Cymry  eu  Tir  a'u  Braint  a'n  Ooron  etto,  a 
bod  yn  Ctenedl  Benrhaith  Ynys  Prydain  etto,  a  pharhau  &1  hynn 
ira  bo  Byd  ym  Myd,  a  dyweded  pawb  amen  a  phoed  felly  y  bo. 

ENGLYNION  COFIADUR. 

1.  BfiL  deucant  oesant  Naf  lean    wyth  deg 

Eilwaith  dau'^n  chwanegu. 
Pan  lias  Llywelyn  Pen  llu, 
Glyw  digamrhwysg  Gwlad  Gymru. 

leoan  Gethin  ab  leuan  ab  Lleision  ai  cant  1420. 

2.  Mil  trichant  gwarant  gwirian    a  deunaw 

Fe  dynwyd  yn  gyfan 
Chm  drais  mawr  i  lawr  yn  Ian 
Hyneifiaeth  Brenin  Afan 

3.  Dau  Seithgant  honant  hynny    a  deuddeg 

Diweddwyd  y  Ooetty, 
Bhoed  llwyr  dawl  ar  bob  hawl  hy 
Bhag  camraith  ar  y  Cymry. 

4.  Dan  Seithgant  gwarant  gywrain    cof  ydyw 

Y  cyfodefl  Owain 
I  dorri  lawr  a  dnr  lain 
Einioes  Brad  Ynys  Brydain. 

leuan  Gethin  ab  leuan  ab  Lleision  ai  Cant  1420. 


DOSPARTH  TEYRNEDD  RHODRI  MAWR* 

Brenin  Penrhaith  Brenin  a  ddodid  yn  benn  ar  j  Breninoedd 
eraill  ai  air  ef  yn  air  ar  eu  gair  hwy,  ag  ar  air  pob  on  o  honynt, 
aV  Brenin  a  geflSd  yn  ddoethaf  ag  yn  wrolaf  o'r  holl  Frenhinoedd 
a  ddodid  yn  Benn  Bhaith,  ag  ar  hwnnw  ydd  oedd  Braint  Tywys- 
ogaeth  ar  holl  Ynys  Prydain  ai  holl  Frenhinoedd 

Cfwraig  Bhodri  Mawr  oedd  Angharad  ferch  Meyryg  ab  Dyfia- 
wal,  ab  Arthen,  ab  Seisyllt  Brenin  Dyfed  a  Oheredigion,  ag  iddynt 
y  bu  pedwar  o  blant,  sef  merch  a  elwid  Elen  yr  honn  oedd  hynaf 
oil,  a  hi  a  fa  briod  a  Morgan  Hen  Brenin  Morganwg  a  Thywjsawg 
o  Bont  Gaerloyw  hyd  afon  Tywi. 

Tri  meibion  oedd  i  Bodri  Mawr.  sef  yr  hynaf  o  honynt  Oadell 
Brenin  Dyfed  a  Oheredigion;  Ail  oedd  Anarawd  Brenin  Gwynedd; 
Trydydd  Merfyn  Brenin  Pywys. 

Bu  hefyd  i  Bodri,  o'^i  gariadwragedd,  bum  mab.  sef  Bhodri  Gk>ch 
ab  Bhodri  Mawr.  a  Meyryg,  ag  Eidwal,  a  Gwyriad,  a  Oathelig :  a 
dwy  ferch,  sef  Elgain  a  Chreirwy ;  a  phan  oedd  oed  Crist  yn  ddea- 
ddeg  a  thrugain  ag  wyth  cant  y  lladdwyd  Bhodri  Mawr  gan  y 
Saeson  yn  Ynys  Fon  a  chydag  ef  ei  fob  Gwyriad,  a  hefyd  Hhydd- 
erch  ail  fab  Morgan  Hen  Tywysog  Morganwg,  ag  ef  yn  bumtheg 
oed  yn  rhyfela  gyda  ei  Dad  y  cu.  sef  Bhodi  Mawr. 

Llyma  fal  y  rhannodd  Bhodri  Mawr  ei  gyfoeth  rhwng  ei  dri 
meibion, 

Gadell  y  mab  hynaf  a  gafas  Dalaith  Dinefwr,  sef  Dyfed  a  Ohe- 
redigion dan  eu  terfynau,  ag  iddaw  Deymwialen  y  Dywysogaeth. 
canys  i'^r  hynaf  oV  Tri  Brenhinoedd  Gwlad  Gymru  y  dylid  hynny. 
Pencyfeistedd  Dyfed  a  Oheredigion  Oaerfyrddin. 

Anarawd  yr  ail  fab  a  gafas  Wynedd  dan  ei  therfynau,  ag  yn 
Aberffraw'*r  Pencyfeistedd.  rhai  lyfrai  a  ddywedant  maiV  trydydd 
sef  y  leuangaf  oV  meibion  oedd  anarawd. 

Merfyn  y  Trydydd  mab  a  gafas  Dalaith  MathraM  sef  holl 
Bywys  dan  ei  therfynau  a'r  Pencyfeistedd  oedd  ym  Mhen  Ghrem 
Pywys,  sef  y  Mwythig. 

Llyma  fal  y  trefnwys  Bhodri  Mawr  lie  ceflSd  ymryson  rhwng 
neb  rhai  oV  Tair  Talaith,  er  Bam  a  therfyn  yr  ymryson. 

O  bydd  ymryson  rhwng  Talaith  Dinefwr  a  Thalaith  y  BerSraw 
ym  Mon,  ym  Mwlch  y  Pawl  yng  Nglann  Dyfi  y  dylai  fod  yr  Eis- 
teddfa,  a  Brenin  Pywys  yn  Benn  Rhaith  a  Bam. 

*  O  Lyfr  Thomas  Hopcin  o  LLmgrallo. 


DOSPARTH   TEYRNEDD    RHODRI   MAWR.  31 

O  bydd  ymryeon  rhwng  Talaith  Mathrafel  a  Thalaith  Dinefwr, 
yn  J  Bhyd  Helig  ar  Wy  y  dylai  fod  yr  Eisteddfa,  a  Brenin 
Gwynedd  yn  Benn  Bàaith  a  Barn. 

O  bydd  ymryson  rhwng  Talaith  Mathrafal  a  Thalaith  y  Ber- 
ffinw  ym  Mon.  yn  Nol  yr  Hunedd  yn  lál  y  dylai  fod  yr  Eisteddfa 
a  Brenin  Dinefwr  yn  Ben  Hhaith  a  Bam. 

A  pha  le  bynnag  y  byddaiV  Eisteddfa,  bid  yno  Deymedd  y 
Tair  Talaith.  sef  ydynt, 

Teymedd^Dinefwr.  Brenin,  Arlwyddi  Llys  a  Gorsedd,  a  Gwlad, 
sef  yw  Gwlad  Perchennyddion  Tir  gan  eu  Pencenedloedd. 

Teymedd  y  BerflSraw,  Brenin,  Pymtheg  Llwyth  Gwynedd  gan 
eu  Pencenedloedd.  ag  Yngnaid  Llys. 

Teymedd  Mathrafal,  Brenin,  Gwelygorddau  Pywys  gan  Ben- 
oene^oedd,  ag  Yngnaid  Llys. 

Teymedd  Qymry  Benbaladr  yr  Hynaf  oV  Tri  Thywysawg  Ta- 
leithiawg,  Brenhinoedd  Gt)r8eddog  a^u  Gyffon  Teymedd,  sef  yw 
Cyff  Teymedd  y  peth  y  wnelir  o  honaw  y  Deymedd  yn  ber&ith. 
ag  nid  unrhyw  CjS  Teymedd  ym  mhob  nn  oV  Tair  Talaith.  eithr 
mal  y  dangoswyd  eisioes. 

Braint  Teymedd  Gymm  Benbaladr  dewis  y  doethaf  a^r  Gwrolaf 
oV  Brenhinoedd  ai  ddodi^n  Ben  Tywysawg  ac  yn  Ben  Bhaith  ar 
hoU  Ynys  Prydain. 

Pencenedl  ywV  Hynaf  o  Iwyth  Cenedl,  a  Gwelygordd  o  wr  cyf- 
allwy,  ai  nawdd  iddei  genedl  o  Iwyth  a  Gwelygordd  hyd  y  nawfed 
ach  ar  hyd  ag  ar  draws.  Sef  ywgwr  Cyfallwy.  na  fytho  nag  ynfyd, 
na  Uesg  anwrawl.  na  dall.  na  mud.  na  byddar.  na  chloff.  nag  anghyf- 
iaith,  nag  yn  Anwybodus  nag  anysgedig,  ag  na  fytho  Briod  ag 
Estrones  gynhenid,  ag  na  fytho  eneidfaddau,  ag  na  fytho  amo  hawl 
galanas,  na  hawl  sarhâd,  ag  nas  eiliawdd  yn  Nydd  brwydr  ag  ym- 
ladd,  ag  a  wypo  holl  Ddefodau  Teymedd  Ynys  Prydain  a  breiniau 
pob  Cymro  Cynhenid.  ag  a  fo  felly  o  hynafiaid  Llwyth  a  Gwely- 
gordd fe  wedd  iddo  fod  yn  Bencenedl  yng  Ngorsedd  Teymedd  ag  ym 
mhob  Llys  Gwlad  a  Chenedl,  ag  ym  mhob  Llys  Barn  a  Chyfraith.  a 
braint  Tad  iddaw  ar  bob  amddifad  o  dad  yn  ei  Iwyth  Genedl  a 
Gwelygordd.  ag  iawn  iddaw  geryddu  a  fytho  ar  y  cam  o'i  Iwyth  ai 
genedl.  ac  nis  tal  sarhâd.  a  Braint  i  Bencenedl  gynhyrfu  Hhaith  a 
Dygynnull  G^lad  a  Chenedl  lie  bo  achos  cyfreithiawl.  ag  nid  oes  a 
gae  yn  erbyn  hynny .  canys  cysswllt  Teymedd  y  sydd  ar  Bencenedl. 
ag  attaw  y  mae  pob  cwyn  am  gam  ag  anghyfraith  a  wneler  a  neb 
un  0Ì  genedl. 


I 


LLYMA  BUMP  BRENHINLLWYTH  CYMRU* 

NID  AMOEN, 

Oadell  ab  Ehodri  Mavrr  yn  Neheubarth. 
Merfyn  ab  Bhodri  mawr  ym  Mhjrwys. 
Anarawd  ab  Bhodri  mawr  yng  Ngwynedd. 
Morgan  Mwjnfawr  ym  Morganwg. 
Elystan  Glodrydd  rhwng  Chiy  a  Hafren. 

Ag  fal  hytm  mewn  llyfrau  eraill. 

Bhys  ab  Tewdwr  yn  Neheubarth. 
Gruflÿdd  ab  Cynan  yng  Ngwynedd. 
Bleddyn  ab  Cynfyn  ym  Mhywys. 
lestin  ab  Gwrgan  ym  Morganwg. 
Elystan  Glodrydd  rhwng  Gwy  a  Hafren. 


LLYMA  DDOSPARTH  TEYRNEDD  YMHOB  UN   O'R  PUMP 
TYWYSOGAETH  NID   AMGEN 

Teymedd  Deheubarth,  Brenin  o  Baladr,  Arlwyddî  Llye  a  Oor- 
sedd,  a  gwlad  a  chenedl  gan  Bencenedloedd  o  berchen  tiroedd. 

Teymred  Morganwg,  Arlwydd  Penrhaith  yn  Frenin  o  Baladr, 
Deuddeg  Arlwydd  Gt)rseddog  o  Lys  a  chyfoeth  o  leiaf,  aV  rif  a 
fythynt  dros  benn  hynny  Brehyriaid,  sef  Tiriogaethwyr  gan 
Bencenhedloedd. 

Teymedd  Powys  Arlwydd  Penrhaith  o  Frenin,  Gwelygorddan 
Pywya  gan  eu  Pencenhedloedd,  ag  yngneid  Llys  a  Qorsedd. 

Teymedd  Aberfiraw  Brenin,  Pymtìheg  Llwyth  Gwynedd  gan 
eu  Pencenhedloedd,  ag  yngneid  Llys  a  Gorsedd. 


*  (Vr  nn  Llyfr.^ — Yn  canlyn  y  Pump  Brenhinllwyth  blaeniadol  y  mae 
Dosparih  Teymedd  yn  cael  ei  roddi  yr  eilwaith ;  end  gydag  yehwanegiadaus 
herwydd  hynny  bemais  ei  fod  yn  ofynol  arnaf  oaod  y  cyfry w  yn  gyflawn, 
eUo,  i  lawr.— Ab  Iolo. 


DOSPARTH    TEYRNEDD.  33 

Teyrnedd  rhwng  Owy  a  Hafren  Brenin  Tiriogion  Owlad  gan 
Bencenhedloedd.  Yngneid  Lljs  a  Ehaith  Deuddeg. 

Penteymedd,  yr  hynaf  oV  Tri  thywysog  Taleithiog.  sef  rhaî 
Chi^iiedd,  a  Phywys  a  Deheubarth,  a  braint  cynnal  Dygynnull 
gwlad  Gymru  i  hwnnw  o  fewn  y  Tair  Talaith 

Braint  Pen  Bhaith  i  Dywysog  Morganwg  rhag  Gyrch  gelyn  a 
gonnes  yn  Neheubartli,  ag  yna  braint  pen  cyngor  i  Dywysog 
rhwng  Qwy  a  Hafren.  a  Phenlluyddiaeth  i  Dywysog.  Pywys, 
eanys  goreu  y  gwyddant  hwy  achos  ag  ansawdd  rhag  lleoedd  en 
gwledydd,  lie  cyrch  o  gelyn  a  gormes  o  dir.  a  phan  ymgyrch  o  For 
Braint  Penrhaith  Vr  un  ai  Tywysog  Deheubarth  ai  nn  Gh¥ynedd 
y  bo  y  delo'^r  ormes  i  Dir.  a  braint  pen  cyngor  Vr  Ilall  oV  ddau 
Dywysog  hynny 

Bhai  a  ddywedant  mai  rhwng  Tywysog  Morganwg  ac  un  Pywys 
y  saif  Braint  Pen  Bhaith  He  delo  gelyn  a  gormes  o  dir  yn  Ó1  y 
goror  y  delo  ai  yn  Nhywysogaeth  yr  un  ai  yn  eiddoV  Ilall  o  honynt, 
a  lie  delo  ar  un  o  honynt  hynn  o  fraint  yna  Braint  pen  cyngor  ar 
y  Ilall,  heb  son  am  Fraint  yn  y  Byd  ar  Dywysog  o  Iwyth  Elystan 
Glodrydd. 

Nid  oes  Braint  Penteymedd  a  darpam  Dygynnull  ar  wlad  Gym- 
ru  oil  i  Dywysog  Morganwg.  eithr  ar  Forganwg,  a  Gwent,  a  Gwyr, 
ac  a  berthyn  iV  Gŵledydd  hynny,  yn  unig.  aV  un  peth  i  Iwyth 
Elystan  Glodrydd. 

Nid  oes  Ben  Teyrnedd  gan  un  oV  Tri  Thywysog  Taleithiog  ar 
Forganwg  nag  ar  Gyfoeth  Elystan  Glodrydd. 

Gwedi  dyfod  gelyn  a  gormes  i  Wlad  Gymru,  Braint  Pen  Teyrnedd 
a  dygynnull  Gwlad  a  saif  ar  a  fo  pellaf  oddiwrth  yr  Ormes  oV  ddau 
dywysawg  Taleithiog  hynn,  sef  un  Gwynedd  ag  un  Deheubarth, 
canys  cadamaf  a  diogelaf  eu  gwledydd  hwy,  ag  oV  ddwy.  a  fo 
bellaf,  oddiwrth  yr  ormes.  a  He  bo  pen  teym  yr  un,  Pen  Hynaif  y 
Hall,  a  dylit  cyngor  o  Bywys,  a  braint  Cyngor  i  Gyfoeth  Elystan 
Glodrydd  ag  i  Forganwg. 

Os  trwy  for  o  Wlad  Estron  y  daw'r  Ormes,  Braint  Penteymedd 
a  saif  ar  Frenin  Lloegr,  canys  cyfoethoccaf  a  chadamaf  efe  oV  hoU 
frenhinoedd,  a  mwya  Uuyddwr.  a  Braint  cyngor  i  bob  Brenin  yn 
Ynys  Prydain  yn  NygynnuH  Brenin  Lloegr,  ai  orchymmyn  ef  a 
saif  amynt  rhag  cyrch  Estron  yn  rhyfel  a  gormes.  a^r  Drefn  honn 
a  wnaethpwyd  yn  amser  Edgar  Brenin  y  Saeson.o  gyngor  Pump 
Brenhinllwyth  y  Cymru. 


LLYMA  ARFAU  Y  PENDEFIGION 

A   DDIFEDDIANWYD  O'U  TIROEDD   AU   DA  GAN  SYR  RHOBERT  AB 
AMON.  AI  FARCHOGION  ANRHATTH* 

1.  Iestin  ab  Gwrgan  Brenin  Morganwg  a  Thywysawg  o  Dywi 
hyd  Bont  Gaerloyw.  [Tyivysog  Morganwg  a  Gwent  ag  Eyas.]  ef 
a  ddug  aur.  Tri  chwpl  S£i  [a  ddyg  aur.  Tri  chwpl  arian.]  efe  a  fii 
farw  ym  Monachlog  Gensam,  i  ba  un  y  rhoddes  efe  diroedd  cyfoeÜi 
yng  Ngwaun  Llwg,  ai  oedran  chweugein  mlwydd  a  chwech. 
[chwech  ugain  mlwydd] 

2.  Marchell,  ab  Gwynn  ab  Arthrwys  ab  Ithel  ab  Morgan  Mawr, 
Arlwydd  Llandathan,  ef  a  ddug  Asur.  Tair  mwyalchen  euraid. 

3.  Gruffudd  ab  Oadwgan  Ddu  Arlwydd  Llansanffraid  fawr  ag 
Aberogwr,  a  ddug  maes  Du,  Tri  Eryr  daupennog  ariant. 

4.  Llywelyn  ap  Hywel  fawr,  Arlwydd  Llann  Ilari  [St.  Hilari]  a 
Llanfleiddan  fawr,  efe  a  ddug  arian,  chwech  pen  saeth  o\  mwrai 
au  blaenau'^n  waedlyd. 

6.  Oaradawg  ab  Arthen  ab  Bleiddryn.  Arlwydd  Glynn  Nedd,  ef 
a  ddug  maes  du,  Cwpl  aur,  Triphen  Llew  o'r  arian,  a'u  tafodau  o*t 
Sinobl. 

6.  Aedd  ab  Oraffnaw  ab  Oynfarth,  Arlwydd  Tal  y  Fann,  ef  a 
ddug  sinobl.  Tair  bwyaill  aur.  [asyr.] 

7.  Idnerth  ab  Ifor  Arlwydd  Glynn  Bhondde.  ef  a  ddug  Asnr, 
chwech  mwled  aur. 

8.  Llywelyn  Brenn  Hen  a  elwir  Llywelyn  hagr,  Arlwydd 
Sainghenydd,  ab  Gruffydd,  ab  Llywelyn  ab  Ifor,  ab  Einion,  ab 
Bhiallon,  ab  Selyf,  ab  Dafydd,  ab  Morgan,  ab  Maglawn.  Tywysog 
yr  Alban.  ef  a  ddug  aur.  Cwpl  Asur,  Tri  phen  March  Sinobl. 

9.  Ynyr  ab  Rhyddwal  ab  Meuryg,  Arlwydd  Meisgyn,  a  ddyg 
Sabl,  Bend  o  aur,  chwech  pen  gwalch  o  arian. 

10.  Gweirydd  ab  SeiayUt  hen  Arlwydd  Lancarfan  a  Phen  Mark, 
ef  a  ddug  sabl,  Triphen  Carw  euraid  [oV  Sinobl,  a^u  Cym  o  Ayr.] 
Seisyllt  Hen  a  fu  fyw  naw  ugeinmlwydd  ag  un 

11 .  Meyryg  ab  Hywel  ab  Elgad,  Arlwydd  Llanffagan,  ef  a  ddug 
o  Ffagan  Sant  sabl,  Tair  allwedd  aur.  llyfrau  eraill  a  ddywedant 

*  O  Lyfr  Mr.  Cobb,  o  Gaer  Dydd. — Y  darlleniadau  gwahanoly  a  welip 
rhwng  cromfachau,  ydynt  yn  ol  ysgrif  arall  o'r  un  hanes,  yn  Llyfr  Mr. 
Tnieman,  sef  un  o  lyfrau  Pantlliwydd. — Ab  Iolo. 


ARFAU   Y   PENDEFIGION.  35 

tair  allwedd  arian.  [ariant,  neu  ayr  fal  y  gwelir  mewn  rhai  lyfrau.] 

12.  Caeron  ab  Hywel  ab  Elged,  Arlwydd  Llanfaes  Illtyd,  a 
ddug  Asnr,  [sabi]  Triphorth  Castell  yn  egored  o'r  aur,  bu  fyw 
chweugeinmlwydd  a  phumtheg 

13.  Morgan  ab  Hywel  ab  Gwrgan,  Arlwydd  Rhuthin,  a  ddug 
Sabl,  chwe  mesen  deri  o'r  aur. 

14.  Gwyddbwyll  ab  Ceraint  ab  Gruffydd  ab  Ynyr,  Arlwydd  ' 
Aber  Bani  a  Phorth  Ceri  a  ddug  asur  [sabl]  o  G^ri  Hirlyngwyn, 
Tri  phen  hwylbren  o  aur.* 

16.  Einion  fawr,  ab  Uthrod  Qoch,  ab  Blegywryd  hen,  ab  Owain, 
Arlwydd  Llanwerydd  [ab  Blegywryd  hen  Arglwydd,  &c.]  sef  yw 
hynny  San  Dunwyd,  ef  a  ddug  Sinobl.  Tri  cheiliog  o'r  aur.  medd 
Uyfran  eraill  Tri  Uew  ar  naid  o  aur. 

17.  Meirchion  Hir,  ab  GruflFydd,  ab  Ithel,  Ariwydd  Tresîgîn  a 
Llan  Dw,  a  ddug  yn  gwarterog  aur  a  Sinobl,  pedwar  Saled  penn 
o>  agur  ar  arian  [Pedwar  Saled  Penn  or  ariant.] 

18.  Llywelyn  ab  Meyryg  ab  Llywarch  Ariwydd  y  Bhws  a  Ffwl 
y  mwn,  (Aberbemant  in  al. — lolo  Morganwg^)  efe  a  ddug  asur, 
chwech  meillionen  aur. 

19.  Braint  ab  Meredydd  falch  ab  Engir  Benwyn,  Ariwydd 
Llan  Fair  a  Llanfihangel  y  Twyn  (sef  Treflemin)  (Llanfihangel  y 
twyn  in  al.— ^/o/o  Morganwg^)  [Llanfair  a  Threflemin]  efe  a  ddug 
wyrdd,  chwech  gwenynen  aur. 

20.  Arthael  frych,  Arlwydd  Llys  y  Fronydd  a  Thre-Gt)lwyn, 
efe  a  ddug  Sabl,  Dwy  waywffon  aur  Sawter. 

21.  Dafydd  ab  Owain  Goch  ab  Ithel,  Arlwydd  Llangynwyd  a 
Thir  larll,  efe  a  dug  Sabl,  Cwpl  arian,  a  thri  phenn  Blaidd  oV 
aur  yn  drwyn-waedlyd. 

22.  Hywel  ab  Gruffydd  ab  Anawrodd  ab  "Blegywryd  Hen, 
Arlwydd  y  Dyffryn  olwg  a  Gwaunfoe,  efe  a  ddug  yn  bedryfannog 
aur  a  Sabl,  pedair  olwyn  o**r  arian  ar  asur. 

23.  Edwin  ab  Trahayam  ab  Ithel,  Arlwydd  Castell  Conan  a> 
Soflen,  a  ddug  arian  [wyrdd]  chwech  rosyn  coch. 

A>  Pendefigion  hyn  a  ddygwyd  oddiamynt  y  rhann  fwyaf  o**u 
Tiroedd  a^u  Da,  a  rhai  o  honynt  a  gawsant  diroedd  gan  Syr  Rho- 
bert  fab  Amon  yn  y  Corbwyl  a  lleoedd  eraill  yn  Ffrainc.  .  a  rhai 
a  gawsant  ychydig  o**u  Tiroedd  yn  eu  hoi. 


*  Mae  y  rhifedi,  ymma,  yn  myned  o  14  i  IG,  gan  adael  15  i  maes  ;  ac  yn  y 
ddadysgrif  yn  ol  llyfr  Pantlliwydd,  mae  rhif  14  yn  cisiau,  a  Gwyddbwyll 
yVr  15fed.    Einion  fawr  yw'r  16eg  yn  y  ddau. — Ab  Iolo. 

F 


AMSEROEDD  COF  A  CHYFRIF. 

Llyma  amseroedd  Gof  a  Ghyfrif  herwydd  Hen  Ddosparth  Beirdd 
Ynys  Prydain  ar  Gof  a  Chyfrif  cyn  caffael  o  Glenedl  y  Cymiy  y 
Ffydd  yng  Nghrist,  a  gwedi  hynny  doded  Gof  a  Chyfrif  ar  am- 
ser  dyfodiad  Grist  yng  nghnawd,  fal  ag  y  mae  ym  mhob  Qrwiad 
hyd  y  cerdd  Gred  a  Bedydd. 

OV  amser  y  daeth  Genedl  y  Gymry  gyntaf  î  Ynys  Prydain  hyd 
yr  amser  y  gwnaed  Efrawc  gadarn  ab  Mymbyr  ab  Madawc  600 
herwydd  cof  cadwedig  Doethion  au  Gyfarwyddyd,  ar  Efrawc  hwn 
a  wnaeth  Gaerau  gyntaf  yn  Ynys  Prydain  Gaer  nid  am- 

gen,  &c. 

O  amser  Efrawc  Gadarn  hyd  amser  y  gwnaed  Ueon  Gawr  yn 
Frenin  ar  G^nedl  y  Gymry  dau  canmlynedd  namyn  deng  mlyn- 
edd,  efe  a  wnaeth  Gaer  ar  Lann  afon  Dyfrdwy,  ag  ai  gelwis  hi 
Gaer  Llion  Gawr.  a  Ghaerllion  ar  Wysg  ym  Morganwg,  a  Chaer 
Mane,  ag  ni  wyddis  yn  awr  ymha  le  ydoedd.  ag  yn  ei  amser  ef  y 
bu  Tes  Angerddawl. 

O  amser  Lleon  Gawr  tnigain  mlynedd  a  chwech,  hyd  yr  amser 
Bleiddydd  ab  Bhun  Baladr  bras,  aV  Bleiddyd  hwnnw  a  gafas  yr 
Enaint  twym  yn  Nant  Baddon  ac  a  ddysges  i  Genedl  y  Gymry 
Lawer  o  Wybodau  daionus  a  Ghof  cyfarwyddyd  amynt. 

O  amser  Bleiddyd  ab  Bhun,  hyd  amser  Llyr  Llwyd  ab  Bleidd- 
ydd ugain  mlynedd,  ar  Llyr  hwnnw  a  wnaeth  Gaer  Llyr,  a  Ghaer 
Eithras  yng  Ngwent,  a  elwir  heddyw  y  Bryn  Biga. 

O  amser  Llyr  Llwyd  hyd  amser  Prydain  ab  Aedd  Mawr  ab 
Ancwn  ab  SeisyUt  ap  Bhwallon  ab  Bhegan  ferch  Llyr  Llwyd  dan 
can  mlynedd  a  saith  a  phedwar  ugain.  A'r  Prydain  hwnnw  a 
wnaeth  ddosparth  Gadarn  ar  Deymedd  Ynys  Prydain  gyntaf  ac 
a  fu  frenin  Gadarn  a  doeth  a  thrugarawc  ar  hoU  Ynys  Prydain  ac 
a  ddyges  ar  ddarwain  Lawer  o  wybodau  a  Ghyfarwyddyd  i  Genedl 
y  Gymry,  ag  a  f u  byw  bedwar  ugain  mlynedd  a  saith  wedi  cael  ei 
wneythur  yn  frenin. 

O  amser  Prydain  ab  Aedd  Mawr  hyd  Amser  Dyfnfarth  Pryd- 
ain a  elwir  Dyfnwal  Moelmud  yn  laith  Gemiw.  Ugain  mlynedd  a 
naw.  ar  Dyfnfarth  hwnnw  a  wnaeth  ddosparth  wastaddrefn  gyntaf 
ar  Gyfreithiau  Genedl  y  Gymry,  ag  a  wnaeth  Fraint  ac  Ammraint 


AM8ER0EDD   COF   A   CHYFRIF.  37 

gadam  ar  au  dirperynt,  ag  an  o  dri  Doethion  Brenhinoedd  Ynys 
Prydain  ai  gelwir  ef,  ag  a  wnaeth  Lys  Grwlad  a  Dinasyddiaeth 
ddosparthus  ynghaerllion  ar  wysg  a  honno  oedd  y  Ddinas  bennaf 
yn  hoU  Ynys  Prydain  a  Braint  Cyfnewid  iddi  ymhob  Dinas  araU. 
yn  hoU  Ynys  Prydain. 

O  amser  Dyfiiwal  Moelmud  hyd  amser  Grwrgan  farfdrwch  ab 
Beli  ab  Arthan  ab  Pyll  hir,  ab  Beli  hen  ab  Dyfnwal  Moelmud, 
Chm  mlynedd  ag  ngain  ag  wyth.  Ac  yn  amser  y  Gwrgan  hwnnw 
y  bu  rhyferthwy  aruthrawl  ym  moroedd  Ynys  Prydain  ag  y  boddes 
lawer  o  GhmtreV  GTwaelod,  ag  achaws  y  morgymmladd  hynny  y 
daeth  y  Ghryddelod  gyntaf  i  Ynys  Prydain  ag  a  gawsant  gan  Wr- 
gan  diroedd  yn  y  Werddon  lie  yddaethanti  yn  Genedl  luôsawc  a 
Ghadam  ac  yn  amseroedd  y  Gwrgan  hwnnwy  y  daeth  Gwyr  Llych- 
lyn  gyntaf  yn  Ynys  Prydain  ac  a  gawsant  fodd  i  fyw  yn  yr  Alban 
lie  y  maent  hyd  y  dydd  heddyw.  A  Dinas  a  wnaeth  ef  a  elwir  Gaer 
werydd,  ag  a  f u  fyw  yno  bedair  blynedd  ar  bumtheg  yn  frenin 
Molianns.  ao  yna  bu  farw. 

OV  amser  y  bu  farw  Gwrgan  farfdrwch  hyd  amser  Morydd  ap 
Daned  ap  Aeddan,  ap  Gynfarch  ap  Seisyllt  ap  Eidrym,  ap  Gyhelyn 
ap  Gwrgan  farfdrwch.  dau  can  mlynedd  a  phedair,  ag  yn  amser  y 
Morydd  hwnnw  y  daeth  anghenfil  mawr  angherddawl  pedair  adein-*- 
iawg  i  For  y  Werddon  ag  a  ddaeth  i  dir  yn  Nyfed  ag  a  laddes  lawer 
o  Genedl  y  cymry  a  Morydd  a  fynnai  ymladd  ag  ef  ag  ai  llyfesis 
yn  wrawl  eithr  yr  anghenfil  a'i  lladdes  ef,  ag  Asgell  oi  adain  a 
fwriasai  ef  at  y  Brenin, 

0>  pan  y  Has  Morydd  gan  yr  Anghenfil  hyd  amser  Owain  a 
Pheredur  Meibion  y  Morydd  hwnnw  deugain  mlynedd  a  saith.  ar 
Ddau  frodyr  hynn  a  wnaethant  Gaer  neu  ddinas  ardderchawc  ai 
henw  Caer  Brodyr.  Yna  cymhwyll  a>  saith  mlynedd  bu  farw 
Owain  ab  Morydd  a  Pheredur  ei  frawd  a  gafas  yr  holl  ynys  iddo 
ei  hunan  yn  frenhiniaeth  hyd  ymhen  dwy  flynedd  ag  yna  y  bu 
farw. 

O'r  pan  y  bu  farw  Peredur  ab  Morydd  hyd  amser  Blegywryd 
Frenin,  Canmlynedd  a  deunaw,  a>  Blegywryd  hwnnw  a  wnaeth 
wellhad  a  Chyfarwyddyd  ddosparthus  ar  gerdd  dannau  ag  nis  gellid 
neb  ai  attebai.  Ag  efe  a  gladdwyd  yng  Nghaerllion  ar  wysg  yn 
anrhydeddus. 

O  amser  Blegywryd  hyd  Amser  Beli  Mawr  ab  Manogan,  Ped- 
war  ugain  mlynedd  namyn  un.  ag  efe  a  fu  Frenin  Doeth  a  pvy- 
bodus  ag  a  wyddai  lawer  o  gyfarwyddyd,  ag  au  dysges  i  genedl  y 
Cymry,  ac  ymhen  dwyflynedd  wedi  ei  goroni  y  bu  ef  farw,  a  mab 


38  AMSEROEDD   COF   A   CHYFRIF. 

a  fa  iddaw  a  elwid  Llydd  ab  Beli  mavrr  ab  Manogan,  ag  efe  a 
wnaeth  ddinas  a  Ghaerau  rhyfeddolion  iddi  ar  Ian  Afon  Dain  ac 
ai  gelwis  hi  Gaer  Ludd  ac  a  elwir  heddyw  Gaer  Lundain.  mab 
arall  ei  enw  Gaswallawn. 

O  amser  Beli  Mawr  hyd  amser  Llyr  Llediaith  chweugain  mlyn- 
edd,  a  mab  i  Lyr  oedd,  a  elwid  Bran  fendigaid  aV  gwr  mwyaf  a 
welpwyd  erioed  oedd  efe.  a  mwynaf  a  haelaf  ei  roddion,  glewaf  yn 
Nhrin  a  chaled,  ag  efe  a  yrres  y  Gwyddelod  oi  wlad  lie  yddoedd- 
ynt  wedi  gwladychu  er  amser  Gwrgan  Farfdrwch.  ag  a  wnaeth 
Gaer  ar  Ian  Afon  Llychwr  ag  ai  gelwis  hi  Dinmorfael  o  Enw  ei 
ferch  anwylaf  a  fu  farw  yno,  gwedi  hynny  efe  a  wnaeth  Lann  yno 
a  Llanmorfael  ai  gelwir,  a  Ghastell  Llychwr  yr  awr  honn. 

O  amser  Bran  ap  Llyr  hyd  amser  Lies  ap  Goel  ap  Gyllin,  ap 
Garadawg  ap  Bran  fendigaid  ap  Llyr  Llediaith,  Ganmlynedd  a 
deg  ar  Lies  hwnnw  a  elwir  Lleirwg  Sant  a  Lleufer  Mawr,  Ag  efe 
a  ddanfones  am  wyr  Duwiol  o  Bufain  i  dysgu'^r  ffydd  yng  Nghrist 
i  Grenedl  y  Gymry  ag  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  gyntaf  yn  Llandaf  ag  a 
ddodes  Esgyb  ynddi  i  ddodi  Bedydd  ar  genedl  y  Gymry,  a  chyntaf 
or  Eglwysi  y  bu  honno,  a  Bonheddiccaf  ei  braint.  ag  efe  a  ddodes 
ysgolion  yno  i  ddysguV  £Fydd  ynghrist  a  gwybod  ar  Lyfiraa 
Gymreig. 

O  amser  Lies  ab  Goel  hyd  amser  Goel  Godebawc  saith  ngain 
mlynedd  a'r  Goel  Godebawc  hwnnw  a  fu  frenin  a  merch  iddaw  a 
elwid  Elen  Lueddawc  a  honno  a  aeth  i  Gaersalem  ac  yno  hi  a  gafas 
y  Groes  fendigaid  ac  ai  dug  i  ynys  Prydain.  sef  y  dodes  Bardd 
hynny  ar  Englyn  yn  llynn, 

Diboen  ferch  Goel  Gt)deboc 
I  gred  a  ddyges  y  Groc 
Ugain  trichant  ai  wrantu 
Oedd  oed  lesu  Dduw  dwysoc. 

O  amser  Goel  Godebawk  hyd  amser  Magsant  Wledic,  Ganmlyn- 
edd a  deuddeg  ar  Magsant  hwnnw  a  fu  yn  Ymherawdr  Ynys 
Prydain  ag  yn  Rhufain.  ag  a  ddodes  fraint  Teymedd  Freiniawl 
ar  Ynys  Prydain  ag  a  wnaeth  Lawer  o  Eglwysi  a  Ghnryndai  Oref- 
ydd  yn  yr  Ynys  honn  ag  addysg  gwybodau  dwyfolion  a  gwladol- 
ion  ynddynt,  Ag  efe  a  ddodes  Diroedd  a  Breiniau  i  Genedl  y  Gymry 
yn  Llydaw  a  Chynan  Meriadawc.  yn  Dywysawc  amynt.  ag  yno 
yddaethant  ugain  mil  o  Genedl  y  Gymry  yn  amgen  gwragedd  a 
phlant,  ag  yno  ydd  arosasant  hyd  y  dydd  heddyw, 


AMSEROEDD   COF   A   CHYFRIF.  39 

O  amser  Coel  Gt)debawc  hyd  amser  Gjsteint  ab  Cystenin  ab 
Aldwr  Brenin  Llydaw  trugain  mlynedd.  ag  achaws  nad  oedd  ef 
Tywysawg  o  Baladr  rhai  o  Genedl  y  Cymry  nis  mynnent  ef  yn 
Frenin  arnynt,  ac  nis  ymwrhaent  iddaw,  a  Gwrtheym  Gwrtheneu 
yn  dywysawc  iddynt,  aV  Gwrtheym  hwnnw  a  wnaeth  frad  a 
Chynllwyn  a  Uadd  Cysteint,  ag  a  wahoddes  y  Saeson  yn  gyfnerth 
iddaw  i  Ynys  Prydain  ag  a  ddodes  Diroedd  a  daoedd  a  Breiniau 
iddynt  yn  yr  Ynys  honn  nid  amgen  no  thiroedd  Gwyr  o  Fonedd 
Bhufain  yn  Ynys  Daned  a  Gwlad  Cent  ag  eraill  o  wledydd.  ar 
Saeson  a  arosasant  yn  yr  ynys  hon  hyd  heddyw  yn  nn  o  dair 
gormes  anraith  Ynys  Prydain.  ag  yn  amser  Cysteint  y  bu  Teilaw 
sant  yn  Benescob  Ynys  Prydain,  ag  a  ddug  lawer  oV  Paganiait 
Vr  Sydd  yn^irist,  ag  a  ddug  gan  nawdd  a  Dawn  y  Brenin  Dau 
Elscob  duwiol  ir  Ynys  honn  nid  amgen  na  Grarmon  a  Bleiddan  i 
wellhâu  ag  adnewyddu  Cred  a  bedydd  a  gwybodau  dwyfolion. 
Merddn  yn  Prophwydaw. 

O  amser  Cysteint  hyd  amser  Gwrthefyr  fendigaid  ngain  mlyn- 
edd ag  nn. 

O  amser  Gwrthefyr  fendigaid  hyd  amser  Arthur  ymherawdr 
dengain  mlynedd  a  thair  ar  ddeg.     Taliesin  yn  Prophwydaw. 

O  amser  Arthur  ymherawdr  hyd  Amser  Cadwaladr  fendigaid, 
wyth  ugain  mlwydd.  ag  efe  oedd  y  diwedd  o  frenhinoedd  ynys 
Prydain  o  Baladr  a  gwaed  Cynhwynawl  y  Bryttaniaid  nes  cafiael 
y  Brenin  Harri'r  Seithfed  yr  hwn  sydd  yn  awr  boed  Duw'n  am- 
ddiffyn  iddaw  Amen. 

O  Amser  Cadwaladr  fendigaid  hyd  Amser  Bhodri  fab  Idwal 
ugain  mlynedd  a  dwy  ar  bymtheg  ac  efe  a  ryfeles  ar  Saeson  ag  ai 
Uaddes  yn  dost. 

O  Amser  Bhodri  fab  Idwal  hyd  amser  Bhodri  mawr  ab  Merfyn 
frych,  Canmlynedd  namyn  tair:  ar  Bhodri  hwnnw  a  rannes  wlad 
gymru  yn  dair  rhan. 

O  amser  Rhodri  Mawr  ab  Merfyn  hyd  Amser  Hywel  Brenin 
Cvmry  oil  Cant  namyn  tair  o  flynyddoedd.  AV  Hywel  a  ddodes 
gyfreithiau  doethion  a  Chyfiawn  ar  wlad  a  Chenedl  y  Cymry,  ag  a 
ddodes  Gadw  Cof  a  Chyfrif  ar  oedran  Crist  fab  Duw  ai  ddyfodiad 
ynghnawd,  fal  ag  y  mae  hyd  heddyw. 

Ag  fal  hynn  y  maeV  gyfarwyddyd  parth  Amseroedd  Cof  a  Chyf- 
rif blynyddoedd  ag  ar  a  ryfu  yn  y  blynyddoedd  hynny  gan  graf  ar 
flvnvddoedd  ag  amseroedd  hysbysion  a  bannogion  y  rhai  yddynt 
warantedig  o  gof  a  Chadw  herwydd  cyfarwyddyd  a  Chof  a  gwybodau 
yr  hen  wyr  Doethion  ar  gwyr  wrth  Lyfr,  a  gwybodau  llythrolion. 


40  COF   CYFARWYDDYD. 

Sef  er  pan  ddaethant  j  Cymry  Tr  Ynys  honn  herwydd  Cyfiuv 
wjddyd  Gof  a  Gh jfrif  ddosparthus  nid  amgen  no  dwy  fil  o  flyn- 
yddoedd  a  phumcant  a  saith  a  hynny  hyd  amser  Hywel  Dda,  ag 
er  amser  Hywel  Dda  hyd  y  flwyddyn  honn  a  goraniad  y  Brenin 
Harri'r  Seithfed  ab  Edmwnt  am  Owain  Tudur  Oymry  Oynhwyn- 
awl  0  baladr  hen  frenhinoedd  y  Cymry  pnmcant  mlynedd  a  phump 
a  deugain.  ag  o  ddyfodiad  y  Cymry  gyntaf  Tr  Ynys  hon  hyd  y 
flwyddyn  honn  Tair  mil  o  flynyddau  a  deuddeg  mlynedd.  a 
deugain. 


LLYMA  GOF  CYFARWYDDYD 

AMSEBOEDD  A  DICHWEINIAI  SELWEDIOION,  NID  AMQEN   NA  BHY- 

FELAU    A   RHYFEDDODAU.   AG  ENWOGION  O 

DDYNION  AC  O  BETHAU .• 


Obd  Crist  65,  y  cawsant  Gfónedl  y  Cymry  y  ífyàà  yng  Nghrist. 
ag  a  gredasant  yn  Nuw,  ac  y  cafwyd  ddeall  gyntaf  ar  laith  y  LI»- 
dingwyr  yng  Nghymru, 

154,  Y  cafwyd  bedydd  gyntaf  yn  Ynys  Prydain  ao  Ei^b  a 
Llannau  o  ddawn  Lies  ap  Coel  aV  Pab  EUdir 

180,  Y  gwnaethpwyd  Eglwys  yn  Llan  Daf  gyntaf,  a  Lies  ap 
Coel  a  elwir  Lleufer  mavrr  yn  Esgob  yno,  yn  dyscu  Cred  % 
Bedydd. 

210,  y  Gwnaeth  Severys  amherawdr  y  clawdd  mawr  yn  y  Gk)g- 
ledd  rhag  rhuthr  y  Grwyddyl  Ffichti,  a  gwir  Llychlyn. 

218,  Bn  farw  holl  ysgrublaid  a  Gwartheg  A  meirch  Ynys 
Prydain,  achos  gwlybaniaeth  ac  amhwynt  ac  ardymmer  afiach 
yr  hin 

220,  Bu  rhew  cadam,  ag  y  bn  farw  Uawer  o  ddynion  ao  anifeilod 
achaws  yr  oerfel. 

24*0,  Bu  clefyd  cadam,  a  bu  farw  llaweroedd  gan  yr  haint. 


♦  Llyfr  Walkin  Py wel  o  Ben  y  Fai,  o  Lyŵ  Caradawc  Llancarfan. 


COP   CYFilRWYPDYD.  41 

242,  Y  Ghmethpwyd  Gaerllion  ar  wysg  o  newjdd  ao  yn  waith 
maen  a  chalch,  lie  cynno  hynny  Qwaith  coed  ydoedd  a  mjnych  ai 
Hosged  yng  nghy&angeu. 

250  Ba  rhew  cadam  a  marwolaeth  fawr  ai^  Anifeiliaid  aV  Man- 
yagmbl  ac  y  bu  prinder  yd  ac  enllyn  yr  haf  ar  ol  hynny,  a  mar- 
wolaeihau  ar  ddynion  achos  hynny. 

260,  y  Gwnaethpwyd  Caer  Baddon  gan  wŷr  Bhufain,  ac  y  bu 
ymladd  rhwng  y  Gymry  aV  Bhufeinwyr  o  achos  hynny,  ac  y  lias 
lawer  iawn  oV  Cymry. 

269,  Gwelwyd  yr  wybren  megis  ar  dan  ag  y  bu  goleuV  nos  fal 
y  dydd  dros  naw  niwamod,  ac  ar  ol  hynny  Tes  mawr  a  difiyg 
dwr  yn  yr  afonydd  aV  Ffynonau, 

272,  Bu  newyn  cadam  a  gorfod  myned  yng  Ngwyllys  Estron- 
iaid  a  gwyr  yr  Ormes  am  fodd  bywyd  yn  fwyd  a  rhysgwydd.  a'r 
flwyddyn  wedi  hynny  bu  marwolaethau  mawrion  ar  werin  y  wlad 
achos  nychdod  a  drigwys  ynddynt  er  pan  y  bur  newyn  aV  prinder, 
lie  gorfu  ar  ddynion  Armerth  bywyd  o  risg  y  celyn,  a  rhisc  helyg- 
wydd,  a  rhisc  Uwyfeni  a  gwreidda  rhedyn.  Ue  nis  gellid  6*t  rhai 
hynny  a  fai  digon,  a  thrymed  y  newyn  fal  y  gorfii  i  rin  daear  ac  ar 
er  cael  yd,  a  achos  bwyttar  gwartheg  aV  ysgrublaid  ages  ag  oedd 
o  henynt  tra  pharathair  newyn. 

290  Lias  gwyr  Bhufain  yn  greulawn  gan  y  Cymry,  achos  dwyn 
oddiamynt  eu  gwragedd  a'^u  plant  o  drais  a  gorfod,  yna  y  dug  y 
Cymry  hwynt  yn  ol,  a  dwyn  eu  tiroedd  gyda  hynny. 

291  BuV  gaeaf  caled  aV  rhew  cadam.  A  rhewi  Uawer  o'r  afon- 
ydd, a>  adar  yn  marw  yn  y  Coedydd. 

293.  Doded  ysgolion  i  ddysgu  syberyd  ym  mhob  Tref  yn  Ynys 
Prydain.  a  nawdd  ar  Gelfyddydau  Dinas  a  Theulu. 

294  Lias  y  Gwyddyl  Ffichti  a  ddaethant  o  wlad  Beitwy,  ar  un 
flwyddyn  y  cad  Llundain  ac  ai  hadeiladu  oV  Newydd. 

297  y  Cad  Aberllychwr  a  Uadd  Gwyr  Bhufain  yno.  ac  ar  ol 
hynny  cad  Caerfyrddin  a  Chaer  Gynfarwy  yn  Nyfed 

300  y  cad  Cae  Lwydcoed  a  Chaerdrynau,  A  Chaer  wyrangon, 
A>  flwyddyn  wedi  hynny  cad  Caer  worgom  a  Chaer  went,  a 
Chaer  Loyw, 

307,  Bu  haint  mawr  achos  Celaneddau  ymladdau  a  bu  farw 
anferthrif  yn  wir  a  gweision  a  merched  a  Gwragedd  cyflawnoed 
gwr  a  gwraig  a  mwy  na  banner  plant  Ynys  Prydain,  achos 
hynny  y  bu  Gormes  y  Gwyddyl  Ffichti  yn  y  Gogledd  aV 
Gwyddyl  gaflachawg  a>  Llychlynwys  ym  Môn  ag  Arfon  a> 
Cwmmwd. 


42  COF   CYFAEWYDDYD. 

314.  Y  Bu  Newyn  a  drndaniaeth  sef  y  Uygrwyd  yr  yttîr  gan  y 
Gwyddyl  ar  Llychlynwys  flfordd  y  cerddynt,  yn  nawdd  gwyr 
Rhufain  er  dial  am  nas  caint  Brodonon  Ynys  Prydain  yn  eu 
gwyllys.  hefyd  lladd  yr  Anifeiliaid  ffordd  ydd  elai  yr  Ormes. 

320.  Y  bu  llif  o  fynnydd  yn  un  a  Morgymmlawdd  Bhyfeddol 
yn  y  Gogledd  ac  y  boddes  lawer  6*t  Tiroedd  ar  hyd  Glan  mor 
Tawch.  a  Ilawer  o  ddynion  ag  anifeiliod. 

331  y  Bu  llifeiriant  mawr  o  for  ac  o  Dir,  ac  y  boddes  Gyfoeth 
Helig  ap  Glannog  o  Dyno  helig  ac  ai  coUwyd  yn  anesgorol.  sef 
oedd  y  Cyfoeth  hynny  am  ydd  elai  Glwyd  yn  Aerfen  hyd  ydd  elai 
Afon  Branc  ym  Mor  y  y  Gogledd 

335  Bu  newyn  angerddol  ac  y  bu  farw  mwy  na  banner  Gwyr 
Ynys  Prydain  ac  y  cawsant  Wyr  Rhufain  y  goreu  ar  hoU  Ynys 
Prydain  o  For  i  for  ar  hyd  ac  ar  draws  ac  y  lladdasant  ddeugun 
mil  or  Gwyddyl  Ffichti  yn  y  Gogledd. 

338  y  Cafas  y  Cymry  Gberllion  ar  wysg;  a  gwledd  yno  adios  y 
cael  aV  Gorfoledd  deugain  niwamod 

339,  Daliwyd  Ilawer  oV  gwylliaid  Gwyddelig  ac  a'u  llosgwyd  yn 
fyw  am  eu  brad  er  gwaethaf  pob  cymmod  heddwch  a  damdwng. 
A  chylch  yr  Un  amser  y  dodwyd  nawdd  a  braint  ar  Laforiaw 
daear,  ac  arodraeth  yd  a  flfrwythau  Coedydd,  a  gyrchid  oV  Eidal 
ar  Ysbaen,  aV  Un  flwyddyn  y  boddes  Morfeydd  Gwynedd  a  Che- 
redigion. 

340  Y  cafwyd  melinau  wrth  wynt  a  dwr  gyntaf  yng  Nghymm, 
lie  cyn  hynny  nid  oedd  amgen  na  melin  law. 

353  Y  colled  Morfeydd  Gwyned  a  Cheredigion  achos  Morlif 
aruthrol  a  daearlif  trwm  ar  ei  gefn,  ac  y  colled  Ilawer  o  bentrefydd 
Dinesig* 

380  y  bu  gwynt  angerddol  ag  y  Uosges  lawer  o  dai  ac  yd. 

Cyfergyd  aV  amseroedd  hyu  y  bu  Cwstenin  Amherawdr  yn 
ymherodraethu  yn  ynys  Prydain  ag  yn  gwared  y  flfydd  yn  Nghiist 
rhag  ai  gwaharddai,  A  goreu  a  golychwydoccaf  or  hoU  amherodron 
y  bu  ef  ag  Elen  ferch  Coel  Godebog  Brenin  Penrhaîth  Ynys  Pry- 
dain oedd  ei  fam  ef,  yr  hon  a  gafas  y  Groes  fendigaid  y  dan  y 
gam  a  fwriesid  ami  gan  yr  anffyddloniaid  yn  Iddewon  a  pha- 
ganiaid. 

Cyfergyd  aV  amseroedd  hyn  y  bu  Morien  ap  A^gad  Fardd  yn 
ddysgediccaf  o  neb  yn  y  byd,  ac  efe  a  fu  yn  Amman  bedydd  ag 
Aberth  Corph  Crist,  ac  achos  hynny  y  bu  casineb  ac  ymiysonau 
ac  ymladdau  nid  bychain  ac  Hud  Morien  a  f u  un  o  Dri  hud  ddar- 
goll  Ynys  Prydain  Cyntaf  oedd  Hud  Urb  Luyddawg  o  Lychlyn 


COF   CYFARWYDDYD.  43 

a  ddng  agoa  bawb  a  fedraint  wrth  arf  a  rhyfel  o  Ynjs  Prjdain  au 
dwyn  ar  ddargoll  yng  Ngwledydd  y  Mor  marw,  ail  y  bu  Hud  Mo- 
rien,  sef  oi  achos  y  colled  bedydd  ag  Aberth  yn  Ynys  Prydain  ac 
ydd  aeth  hoU  werin  yr  ynys  yn  Iddewon  difedydd  Trydydd  Hud 
oedd  un  Gwydion  ap  Don  yng  Ngwynedd  a  gafas  o  dwyll  fraint 
Goron  a  Phendefigaeth  Ar  Fon  ac  Arfon  aV  Gwmmwd  y  Gan  am- 
herawdr  Rhufain  am  yrru  Genedl  y  Gymry  o'^u  Tiroedd  a  rhoi 
rhoi  y  tiroedd  hynny  ir  Gwyddelod  a  Gwir  Llychlyn. 

382.  Bu  gwynt  angerddol  yr  ail  waith  ac  y  dodes  y  Gwyddyl 
Ffichti  dan  wrth  adanedd  yr  Adar  Gwyllion  yn  y  Gogledd,  achos 
hynny  llosged  Uawer  iawn  o  dai  ac  ysguborau  a  Deisydd  Yd. 

390.  Gyfergyd  aV  amseroedd  hynn  y  bu  Gwstenyn  ymherawdr  yn 
gyfnoddwr,  y  ffydd  yng  Nghrist  ac  y  Bu  Martin  Esgob  yn  Gwrth- 
ammau  Hud  Morien  yn  yr  Eidal  ag  Yn  ynys  Prydain,  Ag  yn 
dyga  bedydd  ag  Aberth  modd  au  dysgwyd  gan  bawl  Abostol  sef 
y  dywed  Pawl  wrth  yr  Esgyb  a'r  Offeiriaid  Bedyddier  pob  dyn 
yn  y  Byd  yn  Enw  y  Tad  o'r  Nef,  ag  yn  Enw  y  Mab  rliad,  Ac  yn 
Enw  yr  Yspryd  glan  yr  hwn  a  fydd  fal  terydr  y  Tes  yn  gyrru 
goleuni  Duw  ir  man  yddelo  aV  man  ydd  agorer  calon  a  Ghydwy- 
bod  iddo,  sef  ydd  aeth  goleuV  yspryd  glan  i  groth  y  Wen  forwyn 
Mair  cyn  oed  gwra  ac  o  hynny  y  beichioges  ar  Fab  Duw  nid  am- 
gen  noc  ar  lesu  Grist  y  Mab  Bhad,  yr  hwn  a  fu  yn  yspeilio  Uffem 
ag  yn  dwyn  pumrooes  byd  o  gaethiwed  y  Gythraul  i  Baradwys,  Lie 
y  maent  yr  Awr  hon  a  gwyn  ei  fyd  fyth  a  gaffo  fyned  attynt. 

400.  y  daeth  y  Gwyddyl  Ffichti  i  Gymru,  ac  addrygasant  yn 
angerddol,  Ac  oV  diwedd  cael  y  Goreu  arnynt  au  lladd  yn  greu- 
lawn  a'^u  gyrru  ar  ffo  dros  for  iV  He  ydd  banoeddynt. 

41 0,  Bu  clefydau  a  marwolaethau  ihawrion  achos  yr  Haint  me- 
lyn,  ac  achos  hwnnw  celaneddau  nas  cleddyd  yn  pydru  ar  wyneb 
daear; 

Gyfergyd  ar  un  Amseroedd  y  dodes  yr  amherawdr  Tewdws  fraiut 
ar  ddysg  a  gwybodau  Anrhydeddus  yn  Ynys  Prydain,  ac  y  bu 
Bradric  Sant  yn  ben  Athraw  Genedl  y  Gymry  yn  nawdd  y  freint 
honno,  aV  gwyddyl  gaflachog  a  ddaethant  am  ben  y  He  ydoedd, 
ag  ai  dygasant  yn  anrhaith  i**r  Werddon  lie  bu  ef  yn  Sant 
gloywaf  ei  glod  yn  y  Byd  yn  dysguV  ffydd  ynghrist  ir  Gwyddyl  a 
chyn  hynny  Paganiaid  di  fedydd  oeddynt. 

425  Y  Daeth  Gannon  Sant  o  Dir  Gal  a  chydag  ef  Bleiddan 
Sant  i  Ynys  Prydain  i  adnewyddu  Bedydd  ac  Aberth  a  chred 
gyfiawn  ar  y  ffydd  yng  nghrist.  ac  He  ydd  oedd  wedi  myned 
ar  edwin. 


44  COF   CYFilRWYDDYD. 

430,  Daeth  y  Gwyddyl  Ffichti  i  Fon  ac  Arfon  a  Ghryddyl  y 
Gwledydd  hyuny  yn  ymuno  a  nhwy  yn  erbyn  Goron  Ynye 
Prydain,  a  Brenhinoedd  a  Thywysogion  Cymry  yn  eu  herbyn  a 
gyda  nhwy  y  ddau  Sant  nid  amgen  Garmon  a  Blaiddan  a  gwe- 
ddio  Duw  a  wnaethant,  a  Duw  a  wnaeth  erddynt  eu  nerthu  yn 
erbyn  y  brad  ar  estroniaid  yn  hylwydd  a  rhofr  Goran  iddynt  ar 
eu  gelynion,  a  bu  mawl  gorfoledd  yn  archlod  i  Dduw  am  y  fuddug- 
oliaeth  honno  yn  holl  Ynys  Prydain  gan  Genedl  y  Oymry,  er 
gwaethafoedd  Gwŷr  Bhufain  yn  cyfarddal  y  gorddwy  Brad  ae 
estrawn. 

Cyfergyd  aV  un  amser  y  Uosgwyd  Gaerllion  ar  Wyeg,  ac  y 
Gwnaethpwyd  Llancarfan  a  honno  a  fuV  Fonachlog  freiniol  gyntaf 
a  gad  yn  Ynys  Prydain  eef  nid  Monachlog  Bangor  Dewdws  yn 
Nghaerworgom  eithr  ysgol  freiniol  i  ddangos  a  dysgu  Ghrybodau 
anrhydeddus  a  chelfyddydau  ardderchogion  fal  ac  ydoedd  yn  Ninas 
Bhufain  a  chan  y  Bhufeiniaid  yng  Nghaerllion  ar  Wysg, 

Cyfamser  a  hynn  bu  morlif  mawr,  ac  y  colled  holl  forfaedd 
Gwynedd  a  Dyfed,  a  Chemyw  a  Dyfnaint,  a  Qwlad  yr  ha^  a 
Morganwg  a  Gwent.  a  llawer  iawn  yn  y  gogledd. 

436,  Gwnaethpwyd  Dyfrig  Sant  yn  Archesgob  yn  Llan  Daf,  ag 
Illtud  Sant,  yn  Ben  athraw  ym  Mangor  Dewdws,  a  elwid  oH  enw 
ef  Bangor  lUud  ac  yn  awr  Llanilltud  fawr,  a  Llanilltud  y  fro.  ac 
am  hyn  o  amser  y  bu  Haint  mawr  jn  Ynys  Prydain  yn  ddial 
Duw  am  pechodau  y  Cymry,  ac  eraill  o  G^nhedloedd  Ynys  Pryd- 
ain aV  Gwyddyl  Ffichti  a  ddaethant  i  Gymru,  ond  drwy  weddîau 
Saint  cafad  y  goreu  amynt  a  gwared  da. 

448.  Y  Gwnaed  Gwrthefyr  Fendigaid  yn  Frenin  coronog  Ynys 
Prydain.  acy  Doded  Dyfrig  yn  Archesgob  yng  Nghaerllion  arwysg. 
A  Theilaw  Sant  yn  Llandaf  yn  Archesgob,  a  chwedi  hynny  Lladd 
Gwrthefyr  Fendigaid  a  gwisgaw  Coron  y  Deymas  am  ben  Out- 
theym  Gwrtheneu,  a  hanpu  gwaeth  o  hynny  i  genedl  y  Cymry 
sef  y  bu  achos  cyn  pen  diwedd  dwyn  Braint  Coron  y  DeymaB 
oddiamynt  Ue  y  bu  yn  eu  braint  er  pan  ddaethant  gyntaf  i  Ynys 
Prydain  pymtheg  Canmlynedd  cyn  dyfod  Crist  yng  Nghnawd. 

450,  Dug  Gwrtheym  Gwrtheneu  y  Saeson  i  Ynys  Prydain  yn 
Bleidyddion  iddaw  yn  erbyn  a  ddylit  y  Goron  iddaw  nid  amgen 
nag  Uthyr  Bendragon  mab  Gwrthefyr  Fendigaid. 

652*  Gwrtheym  Gwertheneu  a  ysgares  ai  wraig  ac  a  gymmerth 
yn  wraig  iddaw  nid  llai  na  phaganes  ddifedydd  nid  amgen  nag 

*  Camsynlad  diau  yn  lie  452.— Ab  Iolo. 


RHOL   COF   A   CHYFRIF.  45 

Alia  Bonwen  ferch  Hengist  Tywysog  y  Saeson.  arhwymaw  Ooron 
J  Dejmas  i  Fab  a  aned  o  heni,  ac  enw  j  Mab  hwnnw  oedd  Octa, 
ac  yn  ei  hawl  ef  jdd  achabasant  j  Saeson  Goron  Teymas  Ynjs 
Prjdain  ac  ai  cadwasant  yn  Lathlud  hyd  y  dydd  heddyw.  a  blinaf 
o  bob  Gtormes  y  bu  gormes  y  Saeson  yn  Ynys  Prydain. 

453,  Y  lias  Pendefigion  y  Oymry  gan  y  Saeson  ym  Mrad 
mynydd  ambri,  aelwir  Mynydd  Caer  Caradawg  yn  Mhendefigaeth 
Giersallawg;  lie  a^u  dygynnullwyd  yno  yn  heddwch  Dijiw  a 
Thangnefedd  Ghrlad  a  chenedl. 


LLYMA  ROL  COF  A  CHYFRIF,* 

SEP  YN  OYNTAF  Y  80NER  AM  A  FU  AR  GOF  CYN  CADW  AR  GYFRIF, 

NID  AMGEN 

Oyntap  a  ellir  ar  gof  caffael  Enw  Dnw  sef  Duw  a  roddes  ei  enw 
ar  lafar,  nid  amgen  nag  /|  \  a  chydaV  gair  cyflam  yr  hoU  fydoed 
ar  holl  fywydau  o^i  hanfodoldeb  i  Fod  a  bywyd  a  bloedd  Gtxrfoledd 
/ 1\  gan  adla&ru  Enw  Duw  Ag  iselfain  pereiddlais  y  llafar  ag  nis 
gellir  ei  ail  yny  dychwel  Duw  bob  hanfod  or  marwoldeb  a  ddug 
pechod  amaw,  pan  adlefair  Duw  ei  enw  ag  o  enw  Duw  ar  lafar  y 
cafwyd,  pob  Cerdd  ag  arwest,  ai  Tafawd  ai  tant  y  bo,  a  phob  gor- 
foledd  a  phob  Llawenydd,  a  phob  bywyd  a  phob  bywyd  a  phob 
Gwynfyd  a  phob  han  a  hanas  arfodoldeb  a  bywydoldeb  ag  nis 
gellir  marwoldeb  nab  o  dri  pheth  sef  ydynt  afrinaw  enw  Duw,  afri- 
bkw  enw  Duw,  ag  afrywiaw  enw  Duw.  aV  lie  ai  catwer,  a  thra  cat- 
wer  enw  Duw  ar  gof,  parth  rhin  a  rhif  a  Rhyw  nis  gellir  amgen 
na  bod  a  bywyd  a  gwybod  a  gwynfyd  hyd  fyth  fythoedd,  a  chyda 
Cyflam  gwynfodolion  pob  bywydolion  a  Duw  a  Dodes  yn  y  Trefn, 
«ef  eu  Ôrsefindawd  yng  nghylch  y  gwynfyd.  ag  efe  ei  hun  ym- 
gadwai  yn  yghylch  y  Ceugant  He  gwelynt  y  gwynfydolion  ef  yn 
un  cyngyd  gogoniant  heb  amaw  na  hin  na  rhif  na  rhyw  ellid  ei  wyb- 
od  namyn  Groleuni  perffaith  a  chariad  perfiaith  a  gallu  perffaith  er 
daioni  pob  bod  a  bywyd.  ag  yna  rhodded  ar  wirionedd  a  Chof  Duw 
a  Digon,  a  hynny  fuV  ail  ar  gof  o  bob  gwir  a  gwybod.  eithr  y 


•  O  Yigrif  lolo  Morganwg,  a  honno  o  un  Llywelyn  Sion,  a  honno  o  un 
^^THiK  Dalydd,ahonno  ohenysgrif  ynLlyfrengellCastellRliaglan.— Ab  lolo. 


46  RHOL   COF   A   CHYFRIF, 

G\vynfydolion  ni  welynt  ei  digon  am  nas  cedwynt  ar  gof  y  gwir- 
ionedd  cyntaf  a  chan  amcanu  mwyhau  gwynfyd  dygynt  gyrch  ar 
y  ceogant  ar  oddeu  datnnaw  a  geffynt  yno,  a  gwybod  rhin  a  rhif 
a  rhyw  ar  Dduw.  a  hynny  nis  geUynt,  a  phan  fynnynt  yn  ol  ir 
gwynfyd  nis  gellynt  achaws  Marwold  ai  cadwai  yn  yr  ol.  ag  yna 
syrthiaw  i  Gylch  yr  abred,  ag  yna  Duw  a  ddodes  ar  gof  a  Gwyb- 
od y  trydydd  Gwirioned  nid  amgen,  heb  Dduw  heb  ddim,  cans  yn 
nhrefn  yr  abred  nis  gellynt  na  chaffael  na  gweled  na  gwybod  ar 
Dduw,  ynaV  gwynfydolion  a  gadwasant  eu  hansawdd  drwy  gadw 
Duw  ai  enw  a  wirionedd  ar  gof  a  welasant  drefn  yr  Abred  ag  ai 
galwasant  ar  Enw  Adfyd.  cans  Duw  ai  gwnaeth  yn  ail  o  beth  a 
weithredai  er  cadw  anufuddol  or  Coll  i  ba  un  yr  rhuthrasant  a 
phrif  wirionedd  adfyd  y  gair  Gwir  hynny  a  ddangoswyd  yn  drydy 
gair  Gwir  a  gwybod  sef  heb  Dduw  heb  ddim,  cans  o  fod  heb  Dduw 
bod  heb  ddim  yn  wynfyd  yw.  ag  yna  pob  drwg  a  phob  dioddef  a 
ellir  gan  ddeall  ar  amcan  a  dychymyg.  eithr  Duw  oi  anfeidrol 
gariad  a  ddug  yr  Abredolion  drwy  gylch  pob  drygau  a  ddichonai 
er  dangaws  er  hanfawd  mal  ai  gwypid  ag  ydd  ymgedwid  o  henynt 
a  rhagddynt  wediV  gwared.  ag  ym  mywyd  Dyn  attolwg  ar  Dduw 
ag  o  hynny  gwybod  ag  atgof  ar  ddaioni  a  chyfiawnder,  a  chariad. 
ag  yna  gwybod  yn  adwel  ar  y  prifwirioneddau,  ag  y  gellid  o  gof  a 
chadw  ag  ymgylyn  ag  wynt  ymansoddi  drwy  ryddhad  marwolaeth 
yn  y  Gwyfyd  cyssefin  Ue  nis  gellir  amgen  nag  atcof  ar  a  foant 
yno  gynt  ag  ar  au  buant  yn  ddrygau  yn  nhreigl  yr  Abred. 

Gwedi'^r  ymdreigl  yn  abred  hyn  ym  mywyd  Dyn,  cafwyd  ar  ad- 
gof  a  Ddeall  rai  o'r  prif  wybodau  a  gwirionedd,  a  Duw  a  drefnai  ei 
Bad  ar  a  welai  yn  oreuon  ymhlith  dynion,  ac  a  ddangoses  iddynt 
wirioneddau,  ag  ansoddau,  a  Threfnau  daionus,  a'r  Gwybodyddion 
hynny  a^u  dangosasant  i  eraill  ag  addodasant  drefnau  Cenhedl  ar 
a  gymmeraint  ar  gof  a  gwybod  y  prif  wir  a  gwybod  ag  o  hynn  y 
caed  Dosparth  Cenhedl  gyntaf  a  ddoded  ar  bob  gwybodau  a  phob 
dosparthau.  a  phob  Trefnau.  a  phob  Ghvirionedd  y  gwirionedd 
hynn  yn  gyfrwym  sef  yw  hwnnw.  Gwir  Duw  yn  uchaf,  a  phob 
dyn  ai  cadwai  ar  gof  a  ddywedai  ymhaen  pob  ymbwyll  ac  amcan, 
Duw  yn  y  Blaen.  ag  yn  enw  Duw,  a  Gwir  yw  Gwir,  a  Gwir  a 
ddaw^n  wir,  a  Gwir  a  fyn  ei  le,  a  Duw  yw'r  Gwir,  a  Duw  yw  Duw, 
ar  sawl  a  gadwasant  ar  gof  a  gweithred  y  prif  wirioneddau  hynny 
Duw  a  ddodes  ei  rad  amynt,  ag  au  cadamh'áes  yn  genhedloedd 
dosparthus,  ag  o  hynn  o  Rad  Duw  amynt  y  cafad  cademyd  Cen- 
hedl ar  y  Cymry,  a  Brawd,  a  chymmrawd,  a  gwerindawd,  a  phob 
eraill  yn  gynnosparthu  Gwlad  a  Chenedl. 


RHOL   COF   A   CHYFHIF.  47 

Gwedi  caffitel  hynny,  buant  j  Cjmij  yn  hir  o  amser  ag  yn 
«neirif  oesoedd  ardraill  a  Chymmydoldeb  hyd  wyneb  Gwledydd 
iramonon  ag  or  diwedd  cywladu  yn  Neffrobani  sef  Gwlad  yr  haf, 
ag  yna  yddaeihant  yn  erbyn  Duw  ai  eiriau  gwirionedd,  a  phechu 
a  chamwedda  yn  hywall  ag  yn  Ystig,  yna  Duw  a  ddodes  amynt 
ei  ddial  ai  alanas,  ag  yna  difrawd  ag  anrhaith  oni  ddarfu  agos  am 
danynt  ag  a  gollasant  en  tiroedd  an  Breiniau  gwlad,  Yna  rhai  a 
gymmerasant  attynt  eu  cydwybodau  ag  a  ddygasant  ar  atgof  Enw 
Duw  ai  Winonedd  ag  add  aethant  yn  eu  hymsawdd  achan  eu 
pwyll,  yna  Duw  oi  rad  ai  ddirfawr  ganad  a  ddodes  ddarbodau 
moliannns  yn  eu  hamcannau  a  Doethion  o  wir  dedwyddon  yn  eu 
plith.  aV  Gwir  da  hynny  a  aethant  yn  Nawdd  Duw  ai  dangnef, 
ag  yn  nawdd  ei  wir  ai  gyfiawnder  ef,  a  thrwy  hynny  a  gawsant 
ddeall  ar  bob  goreu  a  ellid  erddynt  Cenedl  y  Gymry,  yna  cymmer- 
wyd  y  blaen  a  dwyn  a  gaent  yn  eu  gosgorddau  o  Ballt  i  Ballt 
yny  ddianghasant  ar  a  ddygaint  gyrcli  difrawd  ag  anrhaith  amynt. 
ag  yn  niwedd  y  Traill,  dyfod  i  Ynys  Prydain  Lie  cyn  no  hynny 
m  8angha8ai  cyn  no  o  hynny  neb  un  o  droed  Dyn  byw,  yn'a 
Goresgyn  yr  Ynys,  yn  nawdd  Duw  ai  dangnef.  a  chynnal  Doeth- 
ineb,  a  Threfoau  golychwyd,  aV  sawl  a  gawsant  Awen  o  Bad  Duw 
ai  ddawn  traphwyll,  a  ddoded  yn  Athrawon  doethineb  a  gwybodau 
daionns.  a  Phrydyddion  a  Gwyddoniaid  au  gelwid.  yna  dechreuwyd 
Gerdd  dafawd  a  dodi  arni  pob  Cof  a  gwirionedd  yn  gadwedig,  y 
modd  y  byddai  hawsaf  cofiaw  a  difyrraf  myfyrriaw,  a  diddanaf  y 
pwyU.  ar  Gwir  hynny  a  fuant  Brif  Athrawon  Cenedl  y  Cymry, 
eithr  nid  oedd  na  Deddf  na  defod  amjoit  yn  ddosparthus  achaws 
hynny  difip¥yddes  gwall  ag  anghof  ar  lawer  ag  yna  myned  yn  er- 
byn Enw  Duw  ai  wirioneddau,  ag  yna  difrawd  ag  anrhaith,  yna 
pob  drwg  a  direidi,  yna  gwr  doeth  a  elwid  Tydain  Tad  Awen  a 
ddug  ar  feddwl  a  phwyll  y  inodd  y  gellid  Dosparth  ag  yna  deddf 
gadam  ar  wybodau  ag  Awen  o  Dduw  ag  ai  dangoses  i  eraill  o 
ddoethion  Cenedl  y  Cymry  ag  a  gafas  eu  bodd  hwynt  yn  warant- 
edig  achyntaf  o  beth  a  wnaethpwyd  Trefnu  Teyrnedd  nid  amgen 
no  dodi  ar  bencenedloedd  y  Cymry  gynnal  Brawd  a  Chymmrawd 
ag  ar  a  gaid  yn  ben  bonedd  dodi  Hynafiaeth  Teyrnedd  sef  a  gaid 
yn  Bonn  bonedd  Prydain  ab  Aedd  Mawr  gwr  doeth  a  gwrol  a 
Chyfiawn  a  brawdgar  oedd  ef  ag  ymraint  hynny  doded  amaw  Un- 
bennaeth  Ynys  Prydain,  yn  gyfrwym  Teyrnedd,  ag  wedi  Dos- 
parthu  a  Threfnu,  a  Chadamhau  Teyrnedd  a  goresgynnaeth  Pry- 
ain  ab  Aedd  Mawr  a  goreu  am  Awen  o  Dduw  y  cafwyd  Tydain 
Tad  Awen.  yna  doded  amaw  yrru  Cvngor  ag  addysg  yn  ddanfro«- 


48  RHOL    COF   A   CHYFRIF. 

edig  ar  Genedl  y  Cymrj  a  hynny  a  orng  ef,  ti  ddodi  ar  Oerdd 
Dafawd  yn  warantedig  o  gof  a  chadw,  a  gwedi  marw  Tydain  ni 
chaed  ei  ail  am  Awen  o  Dduw  a  gwbodau,  yna  chwiliaw  ei  gerdd 
dafawd  ef  a  myned  yng  nghyngor  a  gaed  ynddi,  gwedi  hynny  dodi 
gwaedd  yngwlad  dan  osteg  a  rhybydd  undydd  a  blwyddyn,  a 
nawdd  a  braint  i  bob  perchen  Awen  o  dduw  gyrchu  cyfiiod  o  ie  ag 
amser  er  myned  ynghadair  a  gorsedd  gan  addysg  a  gafed  yng 
ngherdd  Tydain  Tad  Awen  a  chann  bwyll  a  chymmwyll  Ghnrlad  a 
Chenedl  gan  Ben  cenedlau  a  Doethion  cyfaddef  Genedl  y  Gymry, 
a  hynny  a  fu,  a  llawer  a  gafed  yn  berchen  Awen  o  Dduw  ag  yn 
gadam  eu  pwyll,  ag  yn  hygred  ei  gwared,  yna  bwrw  am  y  gorenon 
dri  o  naddynt,  ar  Tri  a  ^ad  yn  oreuon  herwydd  enw  a  gair  am- 
danynt  Plenydd  ag  Alawn^  a  Gwron^  ag  ni  chaid  cystal  ag  wynt 
am  gof  cadwedig  yn  gystal  Gerdd  dafawd  a  rhin  Llythyr,  ag 
arwydd,  a  gwedi  cael  gwarant  a  chademyd  gwir  ar  hynny  doded 
amynt  drefnu  Dosparthau  daionus  ar  Wlad  a  Ghenedl,  ag  ar  gof 
a  gwybodau,  ag  ar  bob  achwain  Geudawd.  AV  Tri  Doethion  liynn 
a  drefnasant  Ddosparth  ar  Deymedd  a  Brawd  a  Ghymmrawd  rwng 
Dyn  a  Dyn  yn  nawdd  Duw  ai  Dangnef,  a  dodi  Gelfyddyd  DdoB- 
paôlhus  ar  Feirdd  a  phrydyddion,  ag  ar  eu  Gerdd  dafawd.  ag  ar  y 
Gymraeg  rhag  ei  myned  ar  Ledryw  ag  yn  Uediaeth,  ar  Gwbl  yn 
nawdd  Duw  a^i  dangnef,  Gelfyddyd  ddosparthus  hefyd  ar  gof  a 
Ghadw  pob  Gwybodau  a  dosparthau  Genedl  y  Gymry,  a  gwedi 
dangos  a  wnaethant  y  Tri  hynn  ger  bron  G^lad  a  Ghenedl  yng 
Ngorsedd,  myned  gan  fam  a  drechai  o  nifer,  a  threch  o  lawer  a 
gaid  a  gaeai  ar  Ddosparthau  y  Tri  doethion  hynn  nag  a  gaid  yn 
eu  herbyn,  yna  doded  ar  a  wnaed  Fraint  a  Ghademyd  Qwlad  a 
Ghenedl  3m  warantedig  0  fam  Gt)rsedd  ag  ai  doded  herwydd  a 
ddosparthed  wrth  Fam  Gwlad  a  Ghenedl  dan  osteg  a  rhybydd  un- 
dydd a  blwyddyn  gan  waedd  Gwlad,  hyd  y  mhen  y  Tair  blynedd, 
ag  ymhob  gorsedd  cadamhau  gan  adrechaint  o  nifer,  ag  mal 
hynny  y  cafad  Gwarant  a  braint  a  Ghademyd  ar  y  dosparthaa 
a  feddyliwyd  gan  y  Tri  Doethion  enwedigion,  a  chyntefigion 
Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain  gan  Ddefod  a  dosparth  gwarantedig  y 
buaint  hwy. 

Ac  yn  y  Gorseddau  ar  gwleddau  anrhydeddus  hynny  doded  ar 
ai  medrai  alw  i  gof  y  prydiau  ar  amserau  y  buant  hynodion  a  go- 
didogion,  a  ddichweiniau,  a  dynion,  a  gweithredoedd,  a  dodi  hynny 
ar  gof  Gerdd  dafawd,  ag  ar  gof  Dysgogan  Gadair  a  GK)rsedd  ag 
ar  gof  Llythyr  ac  arwydd.  a  chyntaf  a  gafad  ar  gof  parth  pryd  ag 
amser,  dyfodiad  Genedl  y  Gymry  i  Ynys  Prydain  nid  amgen  nag 


LLAFAB  GOBSEDD    BEIRDD   YNYS  PBYDAIN.  49 

wyth  cant  a  naw  tra  deugaint  o  flynyddau  cyn  nog  amser  Prjdain 
ab  Aedd  Mawr. 

O  ddyfodiad  y  Oymry  i  Ynys  Prydain  hyd  ymladd  y  pumrodyr 
a  lladd  yn  eu  cyfranc  hwy  mwy  no  banner  Gwyr  Genedl  y  Oymry 
ynyd  aeth  ymlad  y  rwng  y  Merched  am  a  gaffai'r  meibion  a  hedd- 
ychu  or  diwedd  y  ryngddynt  mab  i  bob  tair  merch  a  chanmlynedd 
ag  ngain  ag  wyth. 

O  ymladd  y  pumrodyr  hyd  amser  Efrawc  gadam  a  ddoded  yn 
Benn  raith  200  mlynedd 


LLYMA  LAFAR  GORSEDD  BEIRDD  YNYS  PRYDAIN 

A  DYNNWYD  I   MAES  O  LYFB  MEYBYG  MOBGANWG  YNGHASTELL 

BHAGLAN,   GENNYF  FI  LLYWELYN  SIGN  O  LANGEWYDD  YM 

MOBGANWG, 

Sef  ydyw  hynny.  son  Defodawl  am  Freiniau  a  Defodau  Beirdd 
Ynys  Prydain,  fal  y  bu  gynt,  yn  Amser  y  Prifeirdd,  a  Thywys- 
ogion  y  Cymry.  ac  nis  gellir  Braint  Prifardd  ar  y  neb  na  wypo 
hynn  o  drefn  ar  Feirdd  a  Barddoniaeth,  herwydd  y  gofyn  defod- 
awl y  sydd  ar  Fardd  a  gwr  wrth  Gerdd  wrth  fraint  a  defod  Beirdd 
Ynys  Prydain. 

LLAFAR  GORSEDD  BEIRDD  YNYS  PRYDAIN. 

I.  Cyn  nog  amser  Prydain  ab  Aedd  Mawr  nid  oedd  namyn  Gwy- 
ddoniaid  yn  wyr  wrth  Ddysg  ac  Athrawiaeth  Gwlad  a  Chenedl, 
a  chan  nad  oedd  na  Deddf  na  llafar  gorsedd  ar  a  wyddai  y  Gwy- 
ddoniaid^  ef  a  ddigwyddwys  coll  ar  lawer  o  wybodaeth  a  chof,  ac 
Ysbysrwydd  Cenedl  y  Cymry.  a  Gwedi  Gwladychu  o'r  Cymry  yn 
nawdd  Gwladwriaeth  Prydain,  ac  ymroddi'n  hoUol  i  fod  wrth  y 
deddfan  daionus  ar  drefn  ddoeth  a  wnaeth  efe,  fe  cafwyd  lonydd- 
wch  ac  yspaid  anraith,  Yna  y  mynnwys  Brydain  chwilio'r  boll 
Ynys  i  weled  a  geflSd  neb  a  wyddai  am  a  fu  gynt  o  ddysg  ac  ys- 
bysrwydd Cenedl  y  Cymiy,  fal  y  gellid  ei  roddi  ar  gof  a  chadw. 
yna  y  Cafwyd  yn  wyddoniaid  o  Gymry  Cynhennid  o  fonedd  a 
deddfoldeb  dri  Gwr  a'u  Henwau  Plennydd  ac  Alatm,  a  Gteron^  y 
rhai  a  ddywedasant  y  gwyddent,  o  hen  gof,  lawer  oV  addysg  a 
wyddair  Cymry  er  yn  oes  oesoedd,  a  gwedi  Datgan  o  honynt  a 
wyddynt,  ef  a  rodded  liynny  ar  osteg  a  datgan  ynghlyw  Gwlad  ac 


50  LLAFAR    GORSEDD    BEIRDD   YNYS   PRYDAIN. 

Arlwydd  dan  rybydd  undydd  a  blwyddyn  a  nawdd  i  bawb  a 
wyddai  naws  or  byd  ar  gof  a  deall  or  hen  wybodaeth  gynt,  ddyfod 
ynghyrch  Gorsedd  yn  nawdd  Gwlad  ac  Arlwydd,  ac  yno  datgan  ei 
Lafar,  a  hynny  a  fu.  gwedi  hynny  y  rlioddwyd  gosteg  yr  ail  waith 
dan  rybydd  undydd  a  blwyddyn  a  Uawer  a  ddaethant  yngorsedd  a 
gwedi  rhoi  ar  gof  a  Uafar  gorsedd  y  maint  hysbysrwydd  a  gaffed, 
y  rhoddwyd  y  cyfan  y  drydydd  waith  ar  osteg  a  rhybydd  undydd 
a  blwyddyn,  a  phan  ddaethant  bawb  o  doethion  Cenedl  y  Cymry 
yngorsedd  y  waith  bono,  y  dangoswyd  drefn  a  deddf  ar  wybodaeth 
ac  addysg  yr  hen  ddoethion  a  fuant  gynt,  a  chyda  hynny  Dob- 
parth  Cerdd  dafawd  gwaith  Tydain  Tad  Awen  y  gwr  a  wnaeth 
Gerdd  Gymraeg  ddosparthus  gyntaf  erioed,  a  gwedi  rhoddi  bam 
ar  y  ddosparth  honno,  ac  ar  bob  arall  o  addysg  a  chof  am  a  fu  gynt 
erchi  y  wnaeth  ir  tri  phrydydd  a  gafwyd  yno  yn  oreuon  roddTr 
cyfan  ar  gof  can  a  llafar  y  modd  y  gellid  hawsaf  ddysg  a  chof 
trefnus  amynt,  a  hynny  a  fu,  a  gwedi  Dyfod  y  tro  nesaf  yngorssedd 
a  dangos  eu  Cerddi  Tafod,  y  bamwyd  eu  rhoddi  dair  gwaith  olyn- 
ol  dan  osteg  a  rhybydd  undydd  a  blwyddyn  a  gwedi  gorphen  y  tair 
Blynedd  a  dyfod  yngorsedd  fe  drefnwyd  gradd  i  bob  un  oV  tri 
Phryddion  hynn,  gan  nad  oedd  yn  eu  herbyn,  nag  yn  erbyn  eu 
Cerddi  na  llafar  na  llais  gan  wlad  na  gorwlad,  a  threfnu  oV  awr 
hynny  hyd  fyth  bythoedd  a  wnaethant,  a  chadamhau  Breiniau  a 
Defodau  ac  wrthynt  rhoddi  Beirdd  o  hynny  hyd  fyth,  a  Breiniau 
a  Defodau  Beird  Ynys  Prydain  au  gelwir  a  galw  pob  Bardd  yn 
Fardd  wrth  fraint  a  Defod  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain.  Gwedi  trefiiu 
y  pethau  hyn  fe  gynimerwys  y  tri  Phrifardd  hynny,  nid  amgen 
na  Phlennydd,  Alawn,  a  Gwron.  Awenyddion  attynt  yn  Drofed- 
igion,  iddei  dysgu  au  hathrawiaethu  ynghelfyddyd  Barddoniaeih, 
a  thrwydded  a  rodded  i'r  Beirdd  au  hawenyddion  am  hynny  gelwir 
y  Beirdd  yn  Drwyddedogion  Braint,  ar  Awenyddion  Trwydded- 
ogion  Smîá  A  gwneuthur  hynny  oU  ym  mraint  Rhaith  Gwlad  ac 
Arlwydd,  a  llyma  ddangos  y  Breiniau  ar  defodau  hynny,  a^r  modd 
au  cynnelir  gan  Lafar  a  Chof,  a  defod  Gorsedd. 

Gorsedd  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain  a  gynnelir  ac  a  gedwir  ar  &nn 
amlwg  yngolwg  a  chlyw  Gwlad  ac  Arlwydd,  ac  yn  wyneb  haul  a 
llygad  goleuni  sef  nid  rhydd  cadw  gorsedd  dan  do  nag  ar  hyd  noe, 
eithr  He  bo  a  thra  bo  gweled  haul  yn  yr  wybren  sef  y  dywedir  bl 
hynn. 

Gorsedd  a  Chadeir  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain  a  gynnelir  yn  yr  am- 
lwg yn  wyneb  haul  a  llygad  ac  yn  rhyddyd  wybren  egored  fel  mi 
gwelo  ac  ai  clywo  bawb. 


LLAFAB  GORSEDD   BEIRDD   YNYS   PRYDAIN,  51 

Ni  ddjgant  y  Beirdd  arf  noeth  yn  erbyn  neb,  nac  yngwydd 
neb ;  ac  nid  rhydd  i  neb  ddwyn  arf  noeth  lie  byddo  Bardd,  can 
mae  gwr  wrth  Heddwch  a  nawdd,  a  chyfiawnder  yw  Bardd. 

Bam  Gh>rsedd  Beirdd  ynys  Prydain  a  fydd  ym  mraint  y  trechaf 
o  nifer  wrth  fwrw  coelbren,  neu  ryw  ffordd  arsJl  a  wypper  y  trech- 
af o  rif,  sef  y  gorfodrif :  ac  ai  cynnuUier,  a  gwneuthor  pob  gor- 
chwyl  ym  mraint  Bam  Gorsedd. 

Modd  y  gwypper  Bam  gorsedd  yw  hynn,  yn  ol  Bam  a  nawdd 
yr  orsedd  a  ddẅgoser  ar  a  fo  cais  ac  achos  yna  ei  roddi  wrth 
gyrch  ail  orsedd,  ac  o  gael  Bam  a  nawdd  yr  ail  orsedd  ei  roddi  ar 
gyrch  y  drydedd  orsedd,  ac  o  gaffael  Bam  a  nawdd  honno,  cadam 
y  bemir  a  ddangoswyd  a  Ghyfallwy.  ac  nid  oes  Bam  Qt)rsedd 
amgen  na  hynny. 

Yr  orsedd  gyntaf  i  bob  cais  a  dangos  a  elwir  Gorsedd  gyfarch, 
ac  o  gael  nawdd  a  Bam  honno  myned  ar  gyrch  gorsedd  yr  ail 
waith.  ar  orsedd  honno  a  elvrir  Gorsedd  Hawl.  ac  o  gael  nawdd 
Bam  yn  honno  cyrchu'r  drydydd  a  galw  honno  Gt)rsedd  gyfallwy, 
a  chyfallwy  y  gelwir  o  hynny  i  maes  a  fa  wrth  gais  neu  achos 
gorsedd.  ac  heb  fam  a  nawdd  y  tair  gorsedd  hynn,  nid  a  unpeth, 
ai  can,  ai  beth  bynnag  y  bo,  ym  mraint  Gt)rsedd  Beirdd  Ynys 
Prydain. 

Nid  oes  Bwys  na  deddf  nac  awdurdawd  ar  na  chan  nac  un  peth 
arall,  ai  cof,  ai  addysg,  ai  hysbysrwydd  y  bo,  na  pha  bynnag  onid 
el  wrth  fam  a  nawdd  Gorsedd  Gyfallwy  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain. 
yna  Gorsedd  a  chyfallMry  y  byddant. 

Ef  a  ellir  cynnal  Cyifarch  a  Hawl  ynghadair  Beirdd  Gwlad  a 
Chyfoeth  na  fo  wrth  fraint  Unbennaeth  Prydain.  megis  pei  cyn- 
neUd  yng  Nghadair  Morganwg  neu  Gadeir  Gwynedd  neu  unrhyw 
Gadeir  arall.  eithr  nis  gellir  cyfallwy  ond  yngorsedd  Beirdd  Ynys 
Prydain. 

Pedair  Cadair  wrth  Gerdd  a  Barddoniaeth  y  sydd  yng  Nghym- 
ru  nid  amgen,  Cadair  Morganwg  a  Gwent  ac  Ergain  ac  Euas  ac 
YHradyw.  ai  Gŵir  cyfarch  a  Chyswyn  yw  Duw  a  phoh  Daioni. — 
Ail  yw  Cadair  Deheubarth  a  Dyfed  a  Cheredigion.  ai  gair  ÎJSÎS  yw 
Ccdan  ttrth  Galon,  y  Drydedd  Gadair  yw  un  Bowys  a  Gwynedd 
■?  Gonwy^  a'i  gair  5SS  yw  a  -4  laddo  a  leddir.  a'r  Bedwaredd 
Cradair  y w  un  Gwynedd^  a  Mon^  a  Manaw,  ai  gair  ^SS  yw  leêu. 
neu  o  lesu  nad  gamwaith  medd  hen  gof  Llythyr.  ar  pedair  Cadair 
hynn  a  ellir  eu  cynnal  yn  un  man  y  bo  achos  yn  Ynys  Prydain, 
eithr  trefnusaf  yw  ei  cynnal  yn  eu  hardaloedd  eu  hunain.  He  ni  raid 
wrth  rybydd  un  dydd  a  blwyddyn,  a  rhaid  yw  hynny  lie  bo  am<;en. 


52  LLAFAR   GORSEDD   BEIRDD   YNYS   PBYDAIN- 

Gorsedd  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain  a  gynnelir  ym  mhob  man  Gtorsedd 
egored,  sef  a  roddwyd  ar  osteg  a  rhybydd  undydd  a  blwyddyn  oni 
boi  Cyfallwy;  a  Ue  ni  bo  felly  myned  wrth  fraint  a  Defod  gan  oe- 
teg  a  rhybydd  a  hawl  a  chyfarch  oni  bo  Cyfallwy.  ac  yn  y  modd 
hynny  y  gellir  deflfraw  Cadair  a  gorsedd  Ue  y  mynnir,  ac  y  bo 
rhaid  ac  achos. 

Cadair  na  fu  cynnal  ami  ynghof  neb  byw  a  elwir  Cadair  Qwag 
parth  ei  thalaith  ei  hun  eithr  braint  effraw  iddi  a  fydd  ymhob 
Cadair  neu  orsedd  arall  a  fo'^n  effraw.  megis  y  gellir  Cynnal  Cadair 
Lundain,  neu  un  Gemiw  a  Dyfnaint,  neu  un  gadair  arall  yng 
Nghadair  Morgan wg.  neu  un  Gwynedd  o  byddant  effraw.  A  Biuma 
pob  Cadair  yn  effraw  yng  Ngorsedd  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain. 

Ar  Bedwar  Amser  Arbennigion  yn  y  flwyddyn  y  mae  cadw  a 
chynnal  Gorsedd  a  Chadair  wrth  a  Defod  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain, 
nac  ym  mraint  unrhyw  Gadair  Ardal  ba  bynnag.  sef  ywV  amser^ 
oedd  hynny  pedwar  Bann  Haul,  sef  y  Cÿntafyẁ'r  Alban  Arthaim^ 
ai  syrth  ar  y  ddegfed  ddydd  o  Fis  Rhagfyr  pan  y  byddo  dydd 
Byrraf  y  gauaf,  ar  dydd  hynny  y  Cyntaf  oV  flwyddyn  a>  gauaf 
herwydd  Defod  yr  hen  Gymry.  a  chyfrif  y  Beirdd  herwydd  hen 
gof  a  chadw.  Yr  ail  ywV  Alban  Eilir  ai  syrth  ar  y  ddegfed 
ddydd  o  fis  Mawrth,  ar  dydd  Cyntaf  o'r  Gwanwyn  yw.  Y  Tryd- 
ydd  ywV  Alban  Hefin^  ai  syrth  ar  y  ddegfed  ddydd  o  fis  Mehefin» 
a  dydd  cyntaf  yr  haf  yw,  a  dydd  hwyaf  yr  haf.  y  Pedwerydd  jw'r 
AUxin  Elfed  ai  syrth  ar  y  ddegfed  ddydd  o  fis  Medi,  aV  dydd 
ar  cyntaf  o'r  mesyryd  yw.  a  hefyd  dydd  Cyhydedd  haul  y  Mesyryd. 
ac  y  dyddiau  hynn  y  cadwent  y  Beirdd  ei  gorseddau  au  Cadeiriau, 
ac  ar  yr  undydd  blaen  ac  ol  or  pedair  Alban,  ac  y  trafodant  en  prif- 
orchwylion,  ag  a  drefnant  a  fo  achos.  y  dydd  o  flaen  yr  Alban  a 
elwir  Gtcyl  yr  Alban^  ar  dydd  ar  ol  Gwledd  yr  Alban,  a  rhydd  ae 
egor  bob  un  o  honynt  megis  yr  Alban,  yn  dri  diwamod  y  cyfan 
ymhob  Alban,  ac  emynt  y  gellir  trafod  a  fynner  a  fo  wrth  gaÌB  ac 
achos  yng  Ngorsedd  a  Chadair,  heb  na  gosteg  na  rhybydd, 

Dyddiau  rhagorsedd  a  rhaccadair  ydynt  ddyddiau  Bann  Llenad. 
sef  y  Cyntaf  dydd  newyd  Ueuad  a  elwir  Cyntefin  y  Ueuad,  ar  ail 
j9f  dydd  banner  cynnydd  Ueuad  a  elwir  Adfann  cynnydd,  y  tryd^ 
ydd  yw  dydd  y  llawn  Ueuad  a  elwir  y  Uatcn  Uonaid,  aV  Pedwerydd 
yw'r  Adfann  Cil,  sef  dydd  banner  Cil  y  Ueuad.  ac  ar  y  dyddiao 
Bann  ac  adfann  Ueuad  hynn,  y  mae  cynnal  rhagorsedd  a  rhaccad- 
air a  golychwyd  er  addysg  ac  athraw  Gwlad  a  chenedl.  ao  er  dangOB 
i  Awenyddion  a  noddedigion  y  petheu  a  ddylynt  eu  dysgu  au 
^ybod,  au  gwnouthur,  ac  yn  y  rhagorseddau  aV  rhaccadeiriaa 


LLAFAB   GORSEDD   BËIBDD   YNYS   PRYDAIN,  53 

hynn  nis  gellir  rhoddi  dim  ar  osteg  a  rhybydd,  na  myned  ynghyf- 
arch  gorsedd,  nac  wrth  hawl,  nac  yn  gyfsJlwy.  eithr  wrth  addysg 
a  dangos  yn  unig.  ac  yn  nawdd,  ac  nid  wrth  fam,  Beirdd  Ynys 
Prydain,  can  ni  wedd  hynny,  ac  nid  deddfol  eithr  ar  y  Pedair 
Prifwyl  Arbennigion. 

UymaV  modd  y  greddir  Beirdd  ym  mraint  Gbrsedd  Prifardd 
Pendant  neu  Brydydd,  a  elwir  hefyd  Bardd  Braint,  a  Thrwydd- 
edog  Braint  a  radder  yn  Brif-ddefodawl  o  Drofedigaeth,  sef  ym- 
rodd  yn  awenydd  dan  Athraw  o  fardd  Gorseddawg  oni  ddysgo  yn 
gwbl  y  gelfyddyd  wrth  Q^rdd  Dafod,  ac  o  famu  ar  Q^rdd,  ac  o 
fedm  a  bamu  ar  y  laith  Gymraeg,  ac  y  gwyppo  Gyfrinach  a 
Breiniau  a  Defodau  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain.  ac  y  gwyppo  dri  chof 
a  thair  Goel  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain,  nid  amgen  na  Chof  Can^  a 
Chofttafar  GyfaUwy. ,  a  chof  defod.  a^r  Tri  choel,  nid  amgen  na 
Ua&r  GTwbid,  a  chadw  Ooelbren,  a  chyngyd  ymbwyll.  a  Gwybod 
Bannau  Dwyfoldeb,  a  Deddfoldeb,  a  Doethineb,  fal  ac  y  bont  gyf- 
allwy  a  chadam  gan  Fam  ac  yn  nawdd  a  chadw  Gorsedd  Gyfall- 
wy.  ao  o  wybod  hynn  o  bethau  a^u  dangos  gerbron  Gt)rsedd.  a 
myned  ynghyfarch,  ac  wrth  hawl,  ac  ym  mraint  Bam  ac  o  hynny 
yn  £ardd  Cy&llwy,  y  Bemir  ef  jn  Orsedd  a  rhoddi  Gadair  iddo,  ac 
yna  Bardd  GK)rseddog  ym  mraint  y  Gt^lair  honno  y  bydd,  a  gwedi 
y  rhoddir  iddo  dair  Cadair,  gradd  iddo  yw  Bardd  Gorseddog  wrth 
fraint  a  defod  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain. 

Ail  flTordd  o  raddoli  Prydydd  yw,  Ue  na  bu  Trofedigaeth,  ei 
roddi  dan  osteg  a  rhybydd  undydd  a  blwyddyn,  fal  y  y  gellir  yn 
Uafar  y  neb  a  wyppa  achos  nas  dylid,  neu  nas  gellid  Bardd  o  hano,  a 
Ue  nis  gellir  dangos  hynny  o  betheu,  myned  ynghyfarch  gorsedd  a 
wna  ef.  yna  yn  hawl,  ac  o  hynny  wrth  fam  gorsedd  oni  bo  cyf- 
allwy,  ac  yna  drwy  fraint  Gadeiriau  yn  Fardd  wrth  fraint  a  Defod 
Beirdd  ynys  Prydain.  yn  orseddog  cyfallwy. 

Trydydd  flfordd  y  greddir  Prifardd  o  Brydydd  yw  lie  nas  gellir 
tri  Bardd  gorseddog  Cyfallwy  yngorsedd,  a  chaffael  awenydd  an- 
nhrofedig  ei  roddi  wrth  raith  drichannyn  ar  air  deuddeg  o  Gywir- 
iaid  Gwlad  ac  Arlwydd,  neu  ynteu  ar  air  ynad  neu  ynteu  Golych- 
wydwr  a  ddywettont  ar  eu  Cydwybodau  y  gellir  Bardd  o  hanaw, 
ac  ii\  famu'*n  Fardd  gan  y  Baith  honno  iawn  yvv  iddo  gadair  a 
gorsedd  ym  mraint  Pwyll  ac  Angen  a  Bhaith  Gwlad  fal  y  gellir 
Gorsedd  Beirdd  gyfiawn  can  nis  gellir  gorsedd  na  chadair  wrth 
fraint  a  Defod  Beirdd  ynys  Prydain  oni  bydd  tri  Phrifardd  cyf- 
allwy sef  yw  hynny  gorseddog.  can  nis  gellir  trechaf  o  rif  heb  dri 
o  leiaf,  ac  nis  gellir  Barn  gorsedd  eithr  ym  mraint  y  trechaf  o  rif. 


54  LLAFAR  GORSEDD   BEIRDD   YNYS   PRTDAIN. 

Lie  ni  bo  namyn  im  Bardd  cyfallwy  wrth  fraiiit  a  Bam  Gt>r- 
sedd,  iawn  jw  iddo  herwydd  Pwyll  ansawdd  ao  angen  rhoi  gradd 
a  chadeinau  i  ddau  Awenydd  Ue  j  gallo  dd jwedjd  ar  ei  air  ai 
gydwybod  y  gellir  Beirdd  o  Brydyddion  o  henynt.  canys  heb  hynn 
nis  gellir  cynnal  Addysg  Beirdd  ynys  Prydain.  ao  o  barth  Deddf 
a  Defod  nid  Gadam  ond  Angen.  ac  yn  hynn  o  fodd  y  cedwir  rhag 
myned  ynghwsg,  ac  o  hynny  ar  goU,  Beirdd,  a  Barddoniaeth  Beirdd 
Ynys  Prydain.  a  hynn  nis  gellir  ei  wneuthur  onid  yn  y  bo'n  Bri- 
feirdd  Ansoddawl  o  Brydyddion,  Canys  o  brydydd  yn  gyssefin  y  mae 
Barddoniaeth  ac  nis  gellir  un  peth  o'r  Byd  onid  ym  mraint  ei  Brif 
a  chysefin  Ansawdd.  Deddf  angen  ydyw  cael  a  fo  brif  anghenraid 
yn  y  modd  y  gellir  lie  nis  gellir  y  modd  a  femir  yn  oreu,  a  chyd- 
ddwyn  a  rhaid  Ue  nis  gellir  dewis  am  hynny  deddf  wrth  bwyll  ag 
ansawdd  yw  Angen,  a  rhydd  yw  deddfu  gan  angen,  Ue  nis  geUir 
Bam  o  raith  aV  trechaf  o  nifer.  a  gwedi  gorfod  ar  angen  yn  y  modd 
y  dangoswyd,  nid  rhydd  graddoli  a  Breiniaw  Bardd  namyn  yn 
ddefodawl  gan  fam  a  rhaith  gorsedd,  neu  gan  fam  a  rhaith  Gwlad 
dan  osteg  a  rhybydd  undydd  a  blwyddyn  a  myned  wrth  wrth  gyf- 
arch  a  hawl  oni  bo  cyfaUwy  yngorsedd. 

Un  ymhlaid  ac  wrth  achos  Gwlad  a  chenedl  y  bemir  a  wnelo 
gan  angen  a  fo  daionus  wrth  bwyU  ac  Ansawdd  Ue  nis  yn  iawn 
amser  farn  wrth  raith  gwlad,  neu  raith  Oorsedd  gan  drechaf  o 
nifer,  Ac  Un  yng  Ngwrth  ac  yn  erbyn  Gwlad  a  Chenedl  y  bemir 
a  wnelo  beth  bynnag  or  byd  gan  Bhwyf  a  Bhyfyg,  Ue  dylid,  aV  man 
y  geUir,  rhaith  gyfiawn  gan  wlad  a  Chenedl  wrth  raith  a  dewis  ym 
mam  trechaf  o  nifer,  neu  Ue  y  geUir  gan  orsedd  wrth  £raint  a  De- 
fod gyfaUwy  o  raith  gyssefin,  sef  o  ddeddf  yn  hanfod  o  raith  Gwlad 
a  Chenedl  a  Deddf  yw  hynn  o  bwyll  a  bam  gan  feirdd  ynys  Pry- 
dain ac  nis  gellir  a  el  yn  ei  herbyn.  ac  nid  cyfiawn  ei  hebcor. 

Lie  nis  gelHr  un  Bardd  o  Brydydd  Gorseddog  bemir  y  Fardd- 
oniaeth  a  Breiniau  a  defodau  Beirdd  ynys  Prydain  ynghwsg,  ac 
nis  geUir  yn  ddeddfol  eu  effraw  onid  gan  fyned  wrth  raith  Gwlad 
a  a  chenedl  ^  osteg  a  Bhybydd  undydd  a  blwyddyn  dair  blynedd 
olynol,  ac  yna  myned  wrth  orsedd  hyd  yn  ydd  eler  yn  gyŵUwy  ac 
yn  y  modd  y  dangoswyd,  fal  y  gwnaethpwyd  yn  Amser  Ptydain 
ab  Aedd  Mawr. 

Tair  Achen  wahanred  y  sydd  ar  Feirdd  Ynys  Prydain  ym 
Mraint  Prifeirdd,  a  Phrifeirdd  y  gelwir  bob  un  oV  tri  am  eu  bod 
o  gyssefin  hanfod  wrth  ddeddf  a  defod  a  braint  Gorsedd  gyssefin 
Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain  yn  Amser  Prydain  ab  Aedd  Mawr.  Cyntaf 
yw  Prydydd,  sef  Prifardd  pendant,  neu  Brifardd  Cyssefin  ac  nis 


LLAFAR  GORSEDD   BEIRDD   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  55 

gellir  hwn  onid  o  wr  a  fo  Prydydd  wrth  Awen  a  Chelfyddyd,  a 
Throfedigaeth,  ai  ddyled  yw  prydu,  a  chynnal  Cof  Braint  a  Defod, 
a  ehadw  Barddas  rhag  ei  myned  ar  gam  a  choU.  Ail  yw  Ofydd 
ac  nÌB  arno  Drofedigaeth  eithr  yn  ol  ai  gradder  Yngorsedd.  sef  yw 
Ofydd  gwr  wrth  Awen,  ymgais  a  dichwain.  ai  ddyled  yw  gwell- 
haa  ac  amlhau  dysg  a  gwybodaeth  ai  roddi  wrth  fam  gorsedd 
a  wnelo  onid  el  yn  gyfallwy.  Trydydd  yw  Derwydd  ac  nis  gellir 
hwn  onid  o  un  or  ddau  arall  sef  y  naill  ai  Prydydd  ai  Ofydd  gan 
&m  a  riiaith  Gbrsedd,  a  gwr  wrth  wrth  bwyll  ac  ansawdd  a  goifod 
y  bydd.  ai  ddyled  yw  Athrawiaethu,  a  chynnal  rhagorsedd,  a  rhao- 
cadair  a  Gtolychwyd  ar  fannau  ac  adfannau  Llenad,  ac  ef  a  ddysg 
gyfrinaeh  Barddas  a  Dwyfoldeb,  a  doethineb  a  moesau  daionus.  a 
Braint  ac  enw  Prifeirdd  a  berthyn  ar  bob  un  oV  tri  hynn  ac  yn 
ogyfuwch  braint  a  bonedd  y  naill  aV  Uall  o  honynt. 

Y  modd  y  Gradder  Ofydd  yw  ei  roddi  ym  mam  Pencerdd  sef 
yw  hynny  Pri£Etfdd  Gbrseddog,  a  ddywetto  ar  ei  air  ai  Gydwybod 
y  gellir  Bardd  o  hanaw,  ac  yna  myned  wrth  fam  a  rhaith  gorsedd. 
a  {^n  A  yn  gyfallwy  y  bydd  iddo  Fraint  Prifardd  Cyssefin.  a 
liiydd  iddo  wneuthor  yngorsedd  a  wnelai  Brifardd  Cyssefin  o 
Drofedigaeth. 

Khydd  yw  i  Brifardd  cyssefin  gymmeryd  Gradd  a  Braint  ofydd 
ym  mraint  a  ddangoso  gerbron  Gorsedd  heb  amgen  na  Nawdd 
cyfarch,  oV  addysg  ar  awenyddiaeth  a  fo  dyled  ar  Ofydd  Cyssefin, 
sef  gwellhan,  ac  Amlhau  gwybodaeth. 

Rhydd  yw  Gradd  a  braint  Ofydd  i  Brifardd  a  ddywetto  ar  ei  air 
ai  gydwybod  y  gellir  Bardd  o  wr  a  gaffo  ym  mraint  hynny  Fam 
a  Nawdd  Gorsedd,  can  y  y  bemir  nis  gellir  amgen  na  bod  y  gwr  a 
fiimo  ar  Awen  a  chelfyddyd  a  chafiael  ei  farn  ef  yn  gyfiawn  gan 
Fam  a  nawdd  gorsedd,  yn  deall  y  cyfryw  awen  a  chelfyddyd,  ac 
ac  yn  yr  hyn  a  ellir  parth  gradd  a  braint  o  henynt.  am  hynny  dau 
rhyw  Ofydd  y  sydd,  Ofydd  Cyssefin,  ac  ofydd  braint  sef  yw  hynny 
Prifardd  o  Brydydd  neu  o  Dderwydd  a  gaffo  radd  Ofydd  yngorsedd 
ym  mraint  a  wnelo  ef  oV  hynn  a  ddeddfai  wr  yn  Ofydd  Cyssefin. 
lawn  yw  i  Ofydd  Cyssefin  ymarfer  a  Swydd  Prifardd  Cyssefin 
yngorsedd  He  na  bo'^n  erwynebol  un  Prydydd  o  Drofedigaeth,  neu 
o  hawl  a  braint  gyfallwy. 

Lie  ydd  elo  Bardd  o  Ofydd  Cyssefin  yn  Brifardd  efe  a  elwir  yn 
Brifardd  Braint  ac  nid  Prifardd  Cyssefin,  ac  er  caffael  hynny  o 
radd,  digon  yw  iddo  ddangos  oi  waith  ei  hun  yngorsedd,  Gerdd 
dafawd  a  ellir  Bam  a  nawdd  gorsedd  arni,  ac  o  gael  hynny  Pryd- 
ydd ei  bemir  ef  a  rhvdd  iddo  fraint  a  swydd  Prifardd,  a  lie  y  bo 


56  LLAFAR  GORSEDD   BEIRDD   YNYS   PRYDAIN, 

Bardd  o  Ofydd  cyssefin  yn  myned  ynghadair  a  gorsedd,  man  na 
bo  Prifardd  Cyssefin,  ac  ymarfer  a  swydd  a  braint  a  ddylit  ar 
Brifardd,  a  mynedd  oil  a  wnelai  gan  Orsedd  herwydd  Braint  a  De- 
fod  oni  bo  Gyfallwy,  yna  rhydd  iddaw,  a  bawl,  ymarddelw  a  Braint 
a  Swydd  Prifardd  nen  Brydydd,  a  rhai  a  wedant  mai  ei  ryw  ef  yn 
unig  a  ddylit  ei  alw  yn  Drwyddedawg  Braint.  ac  nis  dylit  ei  aJw 
yn  Drwyddedog  Cyssefin,  can  ni  bydd  felly  neb  namyn  Prifardd  o 
Brydydd  Trofedig. 

Derwydd  a  reddir  wrth  raith  a  Bam  G-orsedd,  ac  bydd  ef  yn 
Brifardd  Cyssefin  nid  rhaid  namyn  y  rhaith  gan  fwrw  Goelbren  ac 
yna  Cyfallwy ;  canys  Cyfallwy  y  bydd  bob  peth  a  wneir  yngorsedd 
parth  ac  at  Fardd  Gbrseddog  neu  G^eiriog,  heb  achos  cy&rch  a 
bawl,  can  mai  wrth  bawl  yw  ef  yn  barawd,  ac  yn  nawdd  ei  hawl. 
Ef  a  ellir  Derwydd  o  Ofydd  Cyssefin  gan  raith  Gbrsedd,  ac  yna 
Cyfallwy  y  bydd,  rhai  a  ddywedasant  y  gellir  graddu  Awenydd 
Trofedig  yn  Dderwydd  ac  o  hynny  bod  yn  Dderwydd  Cyssefin, 
eithr  nid  Grwir  hynny,  can  nis  gellir  Awenydd  Trofedig  onid  o  wr 
wrth  Grerdd  dafawd,  a  Phrydydd  yn  nawdd  ac  wrth  hawl  Beirdd 
Ynys  Prydain  y  bydd  efe,  am  hynny  nis  gellir  o  gyssefin  ansawdd 
a  Defawd  nad  Gradd  Prydydd  neu  Brifardd  Cyssefin  ywV  un  a 
rodder  ar  Awenydd  Trofedig  can  nis  gellir  o  fyned  gwr  wrth  Drof- 
edigaeth  a  Cherdd  Dafawd  yng  ngradd  wrth  Fam  a  rhaith  Gk>r- 
sedd,  nad  Prifardd  Cyssefin  y  bydd  a  hyn  o  anfodd  oil  a  ellir  ei 
ddywedyd  a^i  ddychymmyg  ai  haem.  eithr  Gwir  yw  hynn  sef  y 
gellir  ar  yr  un  anadl  ac  ymmod  a  Uafar  ai  greddir  ef  yn  BriSetfdd 
Cyssefin  ei  drefnu  ef  yn  Dderwydd.  a  gyrru  hynny  o  radd  amo 
dan  yr  un. 

0  ba  radd  bynnag  y  bo  Derwydd  neu  oes  bydd  Trofedig  o 
Drwyddedog  nawdd,  os  ymerfyr  ef  a  Swydd  a  gorchwyl  unrhyw 
radd  arall  yng  Ngorsedd  a  Chadair  a  myned  o  hynny  yn  nawdd 
Gt>rsedd  neu  Gadair,  graddedig  y  bemir  ef  ym  mraint  Hawl  ac 
Arddel  a  nawdd  Gt)rsedd,  fel  y  bydd  Prifardd  o  roddi  Gwir  hyd 
yng  ngradd  Gorsedd  ar  air  a  chydwybod  parth  ac  at  Ofydd  sef  y 
Bemir  ei  fod  yn  hynny  yn  myned  gan  bwyll  ac  ansawdd  wrth 
Angen  a  gorfod  gwirionedd  ac  wrth  hynny  yn  ymarfer  a  braint  a 
swydd  Derwydd  ac  nis  gellir  iawn  ymarfer  a  dim  heb  ei  ddeall.  a 
bemir  deall  ar  hynny  o  beth  Ue'dd  elo  a  wneythpwyd  felly  wrth 
fam  ac  yn  Nawdd  gorsedd,  ac  yna  Braint  iddo  radd  ar  a  gafwyd 
wrth  fam  a  nawdd  ar  ddeall  gantho,  heb  ymhellach  parth  Bam  a 
rhaith,  eithr  ei  roddi  ar  glyw  a  gosteg  a  rhybydd  gorsedd,  ac  yn 
umvedd  y  bornir  am  Ofydd  yn  ymarfer  onid  el  a  a  wnelo  ef  yn 


LLAFAR  GOBSEDD   BEIRDD   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  57 

nawdd  G^orsedd,  a  Gorchwyl  a  Swydd  Prydydd  sef  prydn  a  chyn- 
nal  cof,  neu  o  fyned  wrth  bwyll  ac  Ansawdd  ac  Angen  a  chaffael  o 
hyimy  nawdd  Gt)rsedd,  yna  Derwydd  y  bydd  a  braint  iddo  fyned 
yngolychwyd  a  chynnal  rhaccadair  a  rhagorsedd  ar  yr  amseroedd 
defodawl  a  deddfedig. 

Nid  rhaid  i  Brydydd  o  Brifardd  Oyssefin  aros  G-radd  wrth  farn 
a  rhaith  Gh>rsedd  er  gallu  ymarfer  a  swydd  a  gorchwyl  Derwydd, 
namyn  rhoddi  hynny  ar  glyw  o  gosteg  Gt)rsedd  neu  Gadair,  can 
mai  gwr  wrth  bob  addysg  cyfallwy  ym  mraint  Barddas  a  Barddon- 
iaeth  yw  Prydydd  o  Brifardd  Cyssefin.  can  mai  amo  ef  y  mae  cyn- 
nal  cof  a  gwybodaeth  hysbysrwydd  am  Farddas  ac  nis  gellir  hynny 
heb  ei  ddeall  ai  wybod  yn  gyfiawn  o  chyflwyr,  a  hynny  yng  wybod 
a  Bam  Gh>rsedd  a  rhydd  yw  i  bob  gradd  wrth  gerdd  a  Barddon- 
iaeth  ymarfer  ar  swydd  ar  addysg  aV  gelfyddyd  a  wyppo  yng 
ngwybod  a  Bam  gorsedd  heb  na  bam  na  rhaith  gorsedd  ymhellach, 
eithr  cadam  yw  a  chyfallwy,  heb  mwyach  yn  y  byd,  y  radd  iddaw. 
namyn  na  bo  defod  o  syberwyd  rhoddi  a  wneler  ar  glyw  a  gosteg 
a  riiybydd  Gh>rsedd  rhag  digwydd  annhrefn  ac  annefod 

Ih^u  rhyw  Awenyddion  y  sydd,  nid  amgen  Trofedig  nawdd  a 
Throfedig  braint,  Trofedig  Nawdd  yw  yr  un  a  gymmero  Bencerdd 
o  Brydydd  Gbrseddog  atto  iddei  ddysga  ai  athrawiaethu  yng 
Nghelfyddyd  Barddoniaeth,  a  chyfrinach  Barddas,  ac  yng  nghof 
Breiniau  a  Defodau  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain.  ac  fel  hynn  y  bydd  oni 
ddysgoV  cwbl.  ag  yna  myned  yng  Nghyfarch  Gorsedd,  am  ei  radd 
ac  o  fyned  hynny  yn  Nawdd  Gorsedd,  Trofedig  Braint  y  gelwir 
ef,  ac  o  enw  a  galw  arall  Trwyddedog  Nawdd.  can  y  bydd  iddo 
Drwydded  Prydydd  yn  nawdd  Gorsedd  sef  yw  hynny  Trwydded 
Mab  Aillt  a  Syberwyd  Cymro  Cynhenid  a  bod  wrth  hynn  ynnydd 
el  yn  orseddog,  sef,  yn  Brydydd  wrth  fam  a  rhaith  Gorsedd  Gyf- 
allwy,  a  sef  yw  hynny  Prydydd  Gorseddog  neu  Brifardd  Cys- 
sefin. 

Dau  ryw  Nawdd  y  sydd,  a  Oyntaf  e  elwir  Nawdd  Beirdd  Ynys 
Prydain  ac  yn  hwnn  y  mae  pob  Cymro  cynhenid  a  fytho  wrth 
addysg  Beirdd  a  Barddoniaeth,  ac  o  hynny  yn  Gywiriaid^  Gwlad^ 
a  phob  un  na  fytho  feUy  gwr  wrth  ddifrawd  ac  anraith  y  gelwir  ef. 
y  ddwyfed  Nawdd  yw  Nawdd  Gorsedd,  sef  yw  hynny  o  fyned  yng 
Nghyfarch  Gorsedd  a  chaffael  Nawdd,  sef  yw'r  nawdd  honno  Barn 
wrth  raith  Gorsedd  y  gellir  a  geisier,  megis  ac  y  mae  Trofedig 
Nawdd  yn  myned  ynghyfarch  Gorsedd  am  ei  radd  a  chaffael  Barn 
defodawl  gorsedd  y  gellir  Prydydd  o  hanaw,  yna  Trofedig  Braint  y 
bydd  efe,  a  nawdd  gorsedd  y  gelwir  a  fo  braint  wrth  y  fam  honno. 


58  LLAFAR   GORSEDD   BEIRDD   YNYS   PRYDAIN. 

ac  yn  y  nawdd  honn  y  mae  pob  Arglwyddi  Gwlad  a  Ohyfoeth  a  phob 
gwr  wrth  raith  Gwlad,  a  phob  ynad,  a  phob  dysgawdr,  a  phob  GU)- 
lychwydwr,  a  phob  Mab  Aillt  wrth  swydd  a  chennadaeth  ei  wlad 
ai  Arlwydd.  a  phob  gwr  wrth  G^nnad  Gwlad  a  Gorwlad.  A  phob 
gwr  wrth  gennad  Heddwch  a  Brawd.  a  phob  gwr  a  ddangoso  wellhâd 
ac  amlhâd  ar  nebryw  gelfyddyd  a  gwybodaeth  a  fo  er  Uee  Byd  a 
Bywyd.  Nawdd  Bardd  graddedig  yng  Ngorsedd  yw  iddo,  am  radd 
amgen  nac  a  fo^n  barod  amaw,  myned  wrth  gyfarch  hyd  yn  Nawdd, 
ac  yna  cadam  y  bydd  a  gais,  a  chyfallwy.  Nawdd  Trwyddedawg 
Nawdd  neu  Drofedig  Braint  yw  oi  fyned  wrth  gyfarch  Gorsedd 
hyd  yn  Nawdd  rhoi  Cadair  iddaw,  ac  yna  myned  wrth  hawl  gor- 
sedd dros  flwyddyn,  ac  o  gael  Nawdd  ail  Orsedd,  y  rhoddir  Gadair 
arall  iddaw,  ac  ym  mhen  y  flwyddyn  myned  yng  ngorsedd  J^  Ar- 
ddelw,  hyd  yn  nawdd  yr  orsedd  honno  yna  Gadair  iddo,  a  gor- 
seddog  a  Chyfallwy  y  bydd  ef,  ac  wrth  fraint  a  Defod  Beirdd 
Ynys  Prydain. 

0  chaifF  Brydydd  o  Drwyddedog  nawdd,  Gttdair  mewn  tair 
gwlad  yn  yr  un  flwyddyn,  a  dangos  o  hynny  yng  ngorsedd  Beirdd 
ynys  Prydain  gynted  ac  y  mynno,  Bernir  y  Prydydd  hwnnw  yn 
Fardd  Gorseddog  o  Brifardd  Cyssefin. 

Trwydded  Bardd  gorseddog  yw  hynn,  sef  heblaw  y  pumerwi 
rhyddion  a  ddylid  iddo  ym  mraint  Cymro  cynhenid,  pumerwi 
rhyddion  eraill  neu  eu  dogn  au  gwerth  a  dogni  hynny  yn  y  maint 
a  fo  raid  ar  yr  eraid  gan  raith  a  bam  G^lad  a  chyfoeth,  a  dogn 
hefyd  a  fydd  i  fardd  am  ei  gerdd  yn  ol  y  bernir  yng  Ngorsedd 
Gwlad  ac  Arlwydd  neu  gan  Baith  Gwlad.  a  dogn  yn  yr  un  modd 
i  Fardd  wrth  addysg  a  golychwyd,  dogn  hefyd  a  fydd  i  Brydydd 
0  bob  neithior  frenhinawl,  ac  o  bob  neithior  fonheddig  sef  yw  hynny 
o  Gymro  a  Chymraes  gynhenid,  am  gynnal  cof  a  dwyn  eu  hachau. 
fal  y  bo  diogel  eu  *iSS5"  Jynhenid.  dogn  hefyd  y  sydd  am  gerdd  a 
Chof  pob  gweithred  foUanus  a  wnelir,  ac  os  o  ungwr  y  bydd  y 
weithred  honno  dogn  o  ddefod  gadam  a  fydd  iV  Prydydd,  ac  o 
wlad  a  Chenedl  y  bydd  yna  braint  cylch  clera  a  fydd  Vr  Prydydd 
a  wnelo  gof  a  cherdd  yn  y  wlad  aV  genedl  honno,  a  rhoddion  o 
syberwyd  a  fydd  iddo,  a  Ue  ni  chaffer  syberwyd  ceiniog  o  bob  arad. 
a  rhaid  yw  rhoddi  y  Oerddi  cof  hynny  wrth  fam  gorsedd  fal  y 
gwelir  eu  gwired  aV  celfyddyd  cyn  gallu  braint  cylch  clera. 
Braint  yw  hefyd  Cylch  Clera  i  Feirdd  a  Throfedigion  braint 
unwaith  bob  tair  blynedd,  a  rhoddion  o  sybenvyd  a  fydd  iddynt, 
ac  nid  oes  na  deddf  na  defod  ar  hynny,  namyn  cariad  a  pharch, 
a  svberwvd. 


LLAFAR  GORSEDD    BEIRDD   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  59 

Defod  a  ellir  ar  bob  peth  a  fo  with  bwyll.  A  Defod  a  braint  ar 
bob  peth  a  fo  wrth  bwyll  ac  ansawdd,  a  He  bo  pwyll,  ansawdd,  a 
gorfod  yna  deddf.  sef  yw  gorfod,  lie  nis  gellir  cystal  a  bod  yn  am- 
gen.  Ag  ym  mraint  Pwyll  Ansawdd  a  gorfod  y  deddfwyd  gyssefin 
Breiniau  ^  Defodau  Beirdd  ynys  Prydain.  am  hynny  Bam  yw 
nas  gellir  nad  Derwydd  cynhwynawl  yw  pob  Prydydd  o  Brifardd 
cyssefin.  nis  gallwyd  yn  gyssefin  Fraint  a  Defod  ar  Feirdd  Ynys 
Prydûn  heb  Awen,  ymgais  a  dichwain,  heb  radd  heb  drofedigaeth, 
ae  yn  hynn  o  both  y  saif  braint  ac  angen  Ofydd,  sef  o  hynny  Pri- 
fitfdd  Cynhwynawl  y  bydd  ef,  can  nis  gellid  amgen  yn  gyssefin, 
am  hynny  a  fa  gan  bwyll  ansawdd  a  gorfod  yn  gyssefin  a  erys 
felly  tra  fo  byw  a  bod,  y  goreu  a'r  gwiraf  ei  gof  gan  wybodaeth  a 
ehelfydd  wrth  gof  a  chadw  a  ddangoses  wybodaeth  a  chelfydd 
yngorsedd  gysefin  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain,  am  hynny  a  fo  cadamaf  a 
ehywiraf  ei  gof  ai  gelfydd  wrth  gof  a  chadw  yw  Awenydd  Trofedig 
o  Brydydd.  nis  gellir  am  hynny  nad  efe  ywV  goreu  o  ^rfiawn  bwyll 
ae  Ansawdd  i  ddwyn  swydd  a  braint  a  dyled  cynnal  cof  a  chadw  ar 
Gyfiinach  a  chelfyddyd,  a  gwybodaeth  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain.  ac 
am  a  ddangoswyd  nis  gellir  gwybod  pa  un  a  fu  gyntaf  o  dair  Achen 
y  Prifeirdd  na  pha  un  a  fu  oreu  a  llesiolaf,  achaws  hynny  y  bemir 
bob  on  o  honynt  yn  ogyfuwch  Urddas  a^u  gilydd,  sef  y  naill  ar 
Uall,  eithr  cyfurddas,  cyfunbwys,  cyfunbarch  a'u  bemir  gwedi 
yddelont  wrth  radd  gorsedd  gyfallwy,  a  phen  a  phont  rhag  pawb 
eraill. 

Sef  y  modd  y  maent  yn  Ben  ar  bawb  yw  deddf  bod  gair  eu  gair 
hwy  ar  bob  gair  o  anfardd,  can  nid  rhyw  na  phwyll  na  bo  mwy 
gwir,  a  gwybodus,  a  chadam,  a  ddywetto  Bardd  nac  a  ddywetto 
anfardd,  aV  modd  dylynt  fod  yn  Bont  i  bawb  ywV  ddyled  y  sydd 
amynt  addysgu  pawb  o  gywiriaid  gwlad  a  gwerin  byd  gan  eu 
dwyn  dros  gors  anwybodaeth,  a  bod  yn  hynny  yn  Iwybr  a  phont 
iddynt. 

Nid  oes  cadam  ar  wir  eithr  ym  mraint  Llafar  gorsedd  Beirdd 
ynys  Prydain,  ac  ar  lafar  gorsedd  y  dylit  pob  gwybod  a  el  ynghor- 
sedd  oni  bo  cyfallwy.  Ac  nid  oes  o  air  nac  o  ddefod  yn  y  Byd  a  el 
yn  erbyn  Llafar  Gorsedd  Beirdd  ynys  Prydain.  sef  hynny  y  gel- 
wir  y  datgan  a  wneir  yngorsedd  ar  a  wypper  gan  feirdd  ynys 
Prydain  ar  gof  a  chadw  or  pethau  aV  cclfyddydau  a  wiriwyd 
yngorsedd  onid  aethant  yn  gyfallwy  a  chadarn.  ac  nis  gellir  barnu 
yn  Wir  cadam  namyn  a  ddangoswyd  yn  yd  aeth  yn  gyfallwy  a 
chadam  yng  Ngorsedd  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain,  ac  o  hynny  ei  fyned 
ar  Lafar  Gorsedd,  ac  ar  Gerdd  dafawd  Gyfallwy. 


60  LLAFAR   GORSEDD    BEIRDD   YNYS  PRTDAIN. 

Nis  gellir  braint  ar  na  Gherdd,  na  llafar,  na  defod,  yng  Ngoraedd, 
a  fo  anwir,  ac  anhangnef,  ao  anneddf,  ac  nis  gellir  derbyn  nao  an- 
wiredd  neu  anhaDgnefedd,  nac  anneddfoldeb,  ar  gerdd,  nac  ar  lafar, 
nac  ar  gof,  nac  ar  jmddwyn,  gan  Feirdd  ynys  Prydain  yngorsedd, 
canys  anghonneddyl  iddynt  gynnal  a  chadamhau  Qwir,  a  heddwch, 
a  deddf,  a  gwrthfod  pob  peth  a  el  yn  erbyn  y  pethau  hynny. 

Y  neb  a  chwennycho  addysg  a  braint  Wth  gerdd  a  Barddon- 
iaeth  ym  mrain  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain  ymgeisied  a  bam  a  chof  a 
llafar  gorsedd  gan  Athraw  o  Fardd  gorseddawg,  ac  yna  coffhaa 
yng  Ngorsedd  y  gwr  wrth  ymgais  yn  Awenydd ;  neu  Drofedig 
Nawdd,  yn  nawdd  Beirdd  Ynya  Prydain,  ac  yna  cymmeryd  y 
Bardd  Gorseddawg  yr  Awenydd  attaw  iddei  athramaethu  a  gynry 
dysg  a  gwybodaeth  Amaw,  y  dyled  yw  ei  ddwyn  yngorsedd  neu 
Oadair  unwaith  o  leiaf  yn  y  flwyddyn,  a  theirgwaith  yn  y  flwyddyn 
0  leiaf  myned  ag  ef  i  B*agorsedd  neu  raccadair  fel  y  caffo  addyi^ 
ym  mreiniau  a  defodau,  ac  yng  nghof  a  chadw  Beirdd  a  Lla&ir 
GK>rsedd.  a  dangosed  yr  Athraw  gan  neu  Gerdd  dafawd  o  waith  ei 
Awenydd  Trofedig  yngorsedd  neu  Gadair  unwaith  o  leiaf  yn  y 
flwyddyn  a  cheisied  farn  ami  o  bwyll  a  deall  y  neb  o  &m  gor- 
seddog  ai  rhotho,  a  phan  wyppoV  Awenydd  y  maint  a  fo  gofyn 
oV  gelfyddyd  wrth  gerdd  dafawd,  aV  tri  chof,  aV  Breiniau,  aV 
Defodau  a  chyfrinach  Barddas,  a  Bannau  doethineb,  a  medni  ar 
gerdd  dafawd  oi  waith  ei  hun  yn  ddifai  ddiwall  ym  mam  Pencerdd, 
sef  yw  hynny  Bardd  Gorseddawg,  eled  ynghy&rch  Gbrsedd,  ac  o 
hynny  hyd  ei  ddiben  wrth  a  ellir  o  hanaw  ym  mam  defodawl 
Gorsedd.  fal  y  dangoswyd  or  blaen 

Llyma  son  am  bethau  defodawl  wrth  bwyll  ac  Ansawdd  a  geffir  ar 
gof  a  Defawd  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain,  eithr  nis  bemir  yn  gynneddf- 
awl  wrth  Angen.  am  y  gellir  pob  gwir  a  gwybod  a  phob  cof  a  chadw. 
a  phob  Celfyddyd  ac  Addysg  hebddynt.  eithr  cadamhau  ac  amlyc- 
cau  cof  a  chynneddfau  a  wnant,  am  hynny  ef  a  ganmolir  cynnal  ar 
gof  ac  arfer  y  pethau  hynn.  sef  ydynt  oil  o  hen  ddefodau  ar  gof  a 
chadw  Gt)rsedd,  a  llymma  sydd  o  honynt. 

Defod  yw  gwneuthur  cylch  Cynghrair  ar  ben  tir  amlwg,  a  hwnn 
a  wneir  a  meini  a^u  gosod  yn  gylch  y  maint  a  fo  achos  o  donn  a  Ue 
gwr  o  leiaf  rhwng  maen  a  maen.  ac  yn  wyneb  haul  y  dwyrain  lie 
trigwr  o  leiaf  fal  y  bo  hawdd  myned  yn  y  cylch,  a  hwnn  a  elwir  y 
Cyntedd  neu  y  Porth.  ac  yn  ei  gyfair  ymhellder  hyd  trigwryd  neu 
dri  thrigwryd  gosod  maen  a  elwir  maen  G^rsaf  a  hwnnw  ymhrif 
bwngc  y  dwyrain  ac  or  tu  gogledd  i  hwnnw  maen  arall  yn  Uygad 
pwngc  haul  dydd  hwyaf  yr  haf,  a'r  tu  deau  i'*r  maen  gorsaf,  maen 


LLAFAR  GORSEDD   BEIRDD   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  61 

arall  yn  Uygad  pwngc  oodiad  haul  dydd  byrraf  j  gauaf.  ar  tri  maen 
hynny  a  elwir  meini  gorsaf,  ac  ynghanol  y  cylch  maen  arall  o  faint 
mwy  naV  Ueill  ar  gyferyd  cywir  y  tri  maen  gorsafi  »^^  Uygaid  haul 
y  bore.  mwiiV  cylch  a  elwir  y  meini  gwynion,  a  meini  crair,  aV 
maen  eanol  canol  a  elwir  y  Maen  Gorsedd  aV  Crair  Gorsedd,  aV 
Maen  Lldg,  a*r  maen  Armerth.  aV  Cylch  hynny  a  wnelir  fal  y 
dywedwyd  a  elwir  hefyd  Cylch  Ambawr,  a  chylch  gorsedd,  a 
ehylch  Gwyngil,  y  cylch  hwnn  hefyd  a  elwid  y  Trwn  mewn  rhai 
idedydd,  ac  ym  mewn  y  Cylch  hwnn  y  cyrchent  y  Beirdd  yng 
Ngorsedd,  ac  nid  defod  na  syberwyd  i  neb  namyn  y  Beirdd  fyned 
o  fewn  y  Cylch,  onia  ceisier  gan  Fardd. 

Defod  gysaefin  yw  dwyn  cledd  o  un  oV  Beirdd  gorseddog  ai  ddal 
yngwungerfydd  ei  flaen^ac  nidrhydd  i  Fardd  ei  ddal  gerfyddei  gam, 
sef  y  bemir  tra  delir  ef  gerfydd  ei  flaenai  noeth  ai  afhoeth  y  bo  nis  de* 
lir,  ac  nia  dygir  ac  nis  noethir  yn  erbyn  na  dyn  nabyw  na  bod,  orhoU 
fyd,  a  phan  ddeler  yn  ngorsedd  y  gyrrer  y  clêddyf  a  llaw  yngwrth 
ei  drafii  onid  el  oi  ¥Fain  a  chael  craff  a  ga&el  amaw  gerfydd  ei 
flaen  ai  osod  ar  y  maen  gorsedd,  yna  datgan  gwaedd  uwch  adwaedd, 
a  ddeler  gui  la&r  hyd  y  Ue  y  dyweder  '^  ni  bydd  noeth  arf  yn  eu 
herbyn'"  ymmod  o  bob  nn  oV  Beirdd  hyd  y  maen  gorsedd  a  rhoddi 
Ç  bob  un  o  henynt  ei  law  ar  y  naill  aiV  cleddyf  a^i  wain  a  gafaelu 
or  Bardd  a  fo  gan  Orsedd  neu  Gadair  ymlaen  y  cleddyf  a'i  osod  yn 
y  wain  lie  ai  gyrrer  yn  gwbl  gan  y  Beirdd  eraill  o  gydgynnor^ 
thwy  llaw  ac  amcan.  a  hynny  yn  arwydd  honnaid  mai  gwyr  wrth 
Heddwch  a  Thangnef  yw  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain  ac  nis  dygant  arf 
noeth  yn  erbyn  on  dyn,  a  gwedi  darfod  hynny  o  ddatgan  y  waedd, 
myned  wrth  achos  a  gorchwylion  yr  Orsedd,  sef  datgan  a  dangos 
y  tri  chof  a  llaCar  gorsedd,  a  datgan  hengerdd,  a  dangos  cerddi 
newyddion  a  roddir  wrth  fam  au  datgan  ynglyw  gorsedd,  a  dangos 
caifl  wrth  Gyfarch,  a  Hawl,  a  Chyfallwy,  a  dwyn  Graddau  ar  au 
dylynt,  a  gwrandaw,  a  gwneuthur,  a  Uafaru  a  fo  rhaid  hcrwydd 
Braint  a  Defod,  a  herwydd  pwyll  ansawdd  a  gorfod.  a  phan  ddarfo 
achos  yr  Orsedd,  neu'*r  gadair,  yna  datgan  yr  Argae-gosteg,  a 
darfod  yr  Orsedd,  ac  ymadael  pob  un  iddei  fann 

Defod  yw  i  Feirdd  yngorsedd  sefyll  yn  ddiarchen  Benn  a  thraed 
o  barch  dyled  a  Gwarogaeth  i  Dduw. 

Briduw  Gorsedd,  gan  ddefod,  yw  sefyll  gan  orsedd  a  Brysyll 
Prydydd  yn  llaw  ac  edrych  yn  wyneb  haul  a  Uygad  Goleuni  a  dy- 
wedyd  ar  air  a  Chydwybod,  neu  o  fodd  arall  rhoi  llaw  yn  llaw  y 
Bardd  wrth  Orsedd,  sef  y  Pencerdd  neu'r  Cadeirfardd,a  dywedyd  ar 
ei  air  a  chydwybod,  gan  edrych  yn  wyneb  haul  a  Uygad  foleuni 


62  GEIRIAU  CYSSWYN  GWAHANOL   GADEIRIAU- 

Gwisg  Bardd  a  fydd  yn  unlliw  parth  y  wisg  honno,  eithr  lliw 
priawdbwyll  y  sydd  i  bob  un  oV  trirhyw  Prifardd  yn  wanhanred 
herwydd  yr  Achen  y  boV  Bardd  aM  gwisgo,  sef  y  Ghnag  Biydyd 
o  Brifardd  Cysefin  a  wisg  wn  o  liw  glas  yr  wybren,  gan  haf  a  hinon 
yn  nod  ac  arwydd  Heddwch  a  thangnef  ac  mai  trwy  hynny  o  liw 
y  gwelir  yn  oreu  y  G-oIeuni  a  phob  gweledig  araU,  aV  wisg  yn 
oleulas  gyfunlliw  yn  nod  ac  arwydd  Gwirionedd,  canys  cyfanlUw 
trwyddaw  a  throstaw  oU  o  fann  ac  o  beth  bwy  gilydd  y  bydd 
gwirionedd  heb  6*r  lleiaf  yn  wahanred  un  man  na  pheth  ar  y  llalL 
Gwisg  Derwydd  yw  gwyn  cyfunlliw  am  lendid  ^"^^  ac  addysg  a 
dwyfoldeb  sef  cyfunlliw  Gwynn  a  goleuni  ai  nod  arwydd  ef.  a  gwyn 
cyfiinlliw  hefyd  y  bydd  gwisg  Derwydd  yn  nod  ac  arwydd  gwir- 
ionedd. Gwisg  Ofydd  a  fydd  oV  gwyrdd  yn  nod  ac  arwydd  twf  a 
chynnydd  ar  ddysg  a  gwybodaeth,  ac  yn  wyrdd  cyfunlliw  y  bydd 
yn  nod  ac  arwydd  Gwirionedd. 

Pob  Bardd  Gorseddog  o  bwy  achen  y  bo  bynnag,  a  ddwg  yn  ei 
law  yngorsedd  Frysyll  neu  flFon  grair  yn  gyfunlliw  ai  wysg,  ac  yn 
wryd  ei  hyd,  aV  Trofedigion  a  ddygant  bob  un  ei  frysyll  oV  trilliw 
Barddoniaidd  yn  frithgymmysg,  yn  nod  ac  arwydd  Trofedigaeih, 
ac  a  wisgant  ar  y  fraich  ddëau  freichrwy  or  un  lliwiau,  ac  os  yn 
nawdd  y  bydd  yr  Awenydd,  Brysyll  banner  gwryd,  ac  os  ym 
mraint  y  bydd  sef  Trwyddedog  nawdd,  gwryd  y  bydd  hyd  ei 
frysyll. 

Lie  na  bo  gwisg  gyfan,  na^i  hachos  y  Beirdd  gorseddogion  a 
wisgant  bob  un  ei  freichrwy  ar  ei  fraich  ddëau  o'*r  lliw  a  ddeiryd 
iddei  achen  ai  radd.  a  hynn  yw^r  mynychaf  o  arfer  gan  j  Beii^ 
er  pan  y  collasant  eu  Trwydded. 


GEIRIAU    CYSSWYN    GWAHANOL    GADEIRIAU    BEIRDD 
YNYS    PRYDAIN. 

Gair  Oysswyn  B.  Y,  p. — Gwir  yn  erbyn  y  Byd, 

MoRGANWG  neu  EssYLLWG — Duw  a  phob  daioni, 

Y  Ford  Gronn  Cadair  Arthur,  Gadair  Taliesin,  Gadaib  Tib 

Iarll — Nid  da  He  gellir  Gwell, 

PowYs — A  laddo  a  leddir. 

Deheubarth — Galon  wrth  Galon, 

Gwyn  edd— lesu 

Bryn  Gwyddon. — Coel  clywed,  Gwir  gweled 

Dyfnain  yng  Nghadair  Bkisgawen. — Nid  byth  ond  Bythoedd. 


TEYRNGEDAÜ.  63 

Gadaib  Uruen  Bhbced.  yn  Aberllychwr.  a  Thaliesin  yn  Ben  Ath- 

raw — Myn  y  gwir  ei  le 

Caoaib  Castell  Bhaglan  yn  Nawdd  yr  Arlwydd  William 

Herbert. — Deflfro !  mae  ddydd, 

CADAIB  CASTELL  KEIO). 

Wkdi  dychwelyd  Bhys  ab  Tewdwr  o  Lys  yr  amherawdr  yng 
Nghonstinobl.  cuttonasant  i  SylCs^nu  Gadair  wrth  gerdd  dafod 
yng  Nghastell  Nedd  ys  ef  dwyn  aradwedd  hen  gadair  a  fu  yno  er 
oesoedd  cyn  cof,  a  braint  heddwch  a  Thangnef  diymdor  ary 
gadair  ag  ar  y  lie  cyd  na  bai  amser  Gair  i  bob  dyn  6*t  Byd  a 
gyrchai  yno,  bynnag  o  wlad  a  Chenedl  y  byddai,  ag  ir  adwedd 
dâeth  Pendefigion  a  goreuon  Bonheddigion  a  Dysgedion  a  Doeth- 
ion  Morganwg  a  Ghvent.  a  Dyfed  a  Gheredigion  a  G-wlad  Buellt  a 
gereinwg  a  chyfoeth  Beged  aV  Tri  Ghwmmwd,  a  mawr  a  gwych  y 
buV  ymgonnill,  a  Dwyn  yr  Hen  Fraint  ar  adwedd,  aV  gair  Cysswyn 
a  ddodwyd  oedd  Hedd  Duw  ai  Dangnrf.  a  gwediV  wledd  gyntaf  lie 
ddoedd  naw  dan  amcan  ag  arÜEteth,  Bhys  ap  Tewdwr  a  wnaeth  yn 
Ansyber  a  Nest  G-wraig  lestin,  a  phan  y  dangoses  hi  hynny  ym- 
aith  ydd  ai  lestin  ai  Deolu  ai  blaid  ai  Osgordd  heb  ymgyfarch  a 
Bhys  ap  Tewdwr,  achos  iddo  ef  dorri  Heddwch  Duw  ai  Dangnef, 
drwy  ddangos  yr  ansyberwyd  i  wraig  Tywysog  o  Frenin  a  hon- 
no'^n  ferch  Tywysog  o  Frenhin  nid  amgen  Bleddyn  ap  Oynfyn 
Brenin  Powys,  a  Ffrom  yn  fawr  er  ei  ansyberwyd  a  wnai  Bys  a 
dodi  Cad  ar  faes  yn  erbyn  lestyn  a  drwg  y  bu^r  diwedd  i'r  ddau 
Dywysog  sef  y  colles  Bhys  ei  fywyd  a  lestin  ei  wlad  ai  gyfoeth 
ag  fal  hynny  darfu  am  Gadair  Gastell  Nedd. 


TEYRNGEDAU» 

Ynys  Prydain  a  ddylyit  ei  dal  wrth  Unbennaeth,  ag  yn  Llun- 
dain  Arwain  Goron  yr  Unbennaeth. 

Tair  Teymas  a  ddylit  eu  dal  wrth  Goron  Unbenn  Ynys  Pry- 
dain, Un  Cymry.  Ag  yng  Nghaerllion  ar  wysg  Gwarseddfa  Teyr- 
nedd  cyn  no  hynn  a  gweithon  Aberffraw,  Arall  Cemiw  Dyfneint, 
Ag  Yng  Nghilliwig  Gwarseddfa  Teymedd  o  hen  Fraint,  Gweithon 
Caerfynyddawg ;  aV  Trydydd  Penn  Bhynn  Bhion  ym  Mhrydyn 
ag  yno  Gwarseddfa  Teyrnedd, 

♦  O  Lyfr  Thomas  Truman,  o  Bantlliwydd. 


64  HANESYDDIAETH   MOROANWG. 

Tair  Ghyarseddfa  Arbenniccion  Brenin  Unbenn  Yny«  Prjdain. 
Caer  Lundain,  Caer  Llion  ar  Wysg,  a  Ohaer  Efrawc.  ag  ym  mhob 
un  or  Tair  dyled  iddaw  ef  Warseddfa  Teymedd, 

Tri  Mychdeym  dybedawc  a  ddylynt  Gymru  oU  dan  eî  ther- 
fynau.  ün  yn  Ninefwr  yn  Neheubarth,  Arall  yn  Aberffiraw  Mdn, 
Trydydd  ym  Mhowys  Wynfo,  ar  drydydd  yn  Aberffiraw,  ag  i  bob 
im  oV  Tri  Gwarseddfa  Teymedd  yn  ddosparthedig  wrth  Ooron 
Unbennaeth  Prydain,  sef  yn  Llundain  hwnnw. 

Tair  Teymged  a  delir  i  Frenin  Llundain  y  gan  Freninoedd 
Oymra  nid  Amgen  o  Aberffraw  Eorged  nid  amgen  Ugdnt  punt 
aur.  ag  o  DdinefWr  Melged,  pedair  Tynnell,  a  Pheillged  o  Wynib 
nid  amgen  no  phedair  Tynnell,  ag  yn  nifiyg  melged  o  Ddinefmr 
Ugeint  yn  aur,  ag  yn  Ue  Peillged  ugaint  aur  or  Wynfa  Powys. 
Sef  y  dosparthed  Gwlad  Gymru  yn  dair  Teymedd  y  gan  Bodii 
Mawr  Brenin  Cymry  oil,  ai  rhannu  rwng  ei  dri,  mab  sef  oeddent 
Gadell  ag  iddaw  ef  Dinefwr,  ail  Merfyn,  Ag  iddaw  ef  Mathra&el  Ym 
Mhowys  Wynfa,  Trydydd  Anarawd  ag  iddaw  ef  y  dodes  Bodii 
Aberffiraw  Môn.  ag  ir  hynaf  or  Tri  thywysawc  taleithogion  hynn 
arwain  Coron  Brenin  Cymru  oU,  ag  i  hwnnw  Deymged  y  gan  y 
ddau  eraill,  sef  hynny  yn  Gymmorth  modd  y  talo  a  ddylit  o  iar- 
naw  ef  i  Frenin  Llundain,  nid  amgen  no  thrugeint  yn  aur.  Ar 
Tri  Theym  enwedigion  a  elwir  y  Thri  Thywysawg  Taleithiawg. 
A  mal  y  dywespwyd  y  dosparthed  y  rhyngddynt  Deymedd  Gwlad 
Gymru,  Ag  eraill  o  Dywysogion  y  sydd  yng  Nghymru,  Nid  am- 
gen noc  lestin  ab  Gwrgan  ym  Morganwg  ag  iddaw  Saith  Ghmtref 
Morganwg  dan  eu  terfynau,  A  Theulu  Elystan  Glodrydd  y  rwng 
Gwy  a  Hafren,  Ag  wrth  Goron  Lundain  y  delynt  y  Tywysogion 
hynny  eu  Cyfoetheu,  ag  nid  wrth  Dalaith  Brenin  Cymru  olL  ag 
felly  terfyna. 


HANESYDDLiETH  PERTHYNOL,  Y  RHAN  FWYAF,  I  FOR. 

GANWG* 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1145  y  cadamhaodd  y  pab  Nicolas  Brekspere 
hawl  y  normaniaid  ym  Morganwg.  am  yr  ymgeledd  a  gafodd  efe 
ganthynt  pan  oedd  ar  grwydr  ym  Morganwg,  fe  fu  lawer  yn  San- 
dunwyd  gyda  Sir  Gilbert  Stradling. 

*  MS.  Mr.  Gamage,  St.  Atban,— :mc«U  Jolo  Morganwg. 


HANESYDDIAETH   HOROANWO.  65 

Yn  J  flwyddyn  1216  y  gwnaethpwyd,  Lewys  mab  Philip  yn 
frenin  Lloegr,  ar  Brenin  Sion  o  Loegr,  a  Gyrwydrodd  i  Gymni, 
at  ei  wraig  ai  chwaer  yn  y  Gyfraith,  yr  ydoedd  wedi  ysgar  ai 
wraig  honn  oedd  Yspel  ferch  William  larll  Caerloyw  ag  Arlwydd 
Moiganwg,  eithr  pan  welodd  hi  efe  mewn  trallod  hi  ai  cadwodd  ef 
ymhlas  Tref  BefEured  dan  enw  Gerald  Fitsalan,  dros  hanner 
blwyddyn,  ag  wedi  hynny  yr  aeth  ef  i  Loegr.  a  gorfa  ar  y  Brenin 
Lewis  fibi. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1346,  y  bu  ymladd  Gresi  He  ca&s  y  Oymry 
&wiglod  am  ymladd  yn  lew  gydaV  tywysog  Edwardd  ddu,  ar 
prid  hynny  y  Gwaeddodd  y  Gapden  Gadwgan  foel  ar  y  Gymry  a 
deieyf  amyn  gymmeryd  Genhinen  yn  en  helmau,  mewn  Gae 
Cennin  yr  ydoedd  yr  ymladd  a  phan  edrychwyd  o  bobtu  Gymry 
oeddynt  oU  onid  naw  ar  hugain  yn  y  llu  hynny  ar  Saeson  mewn 
rfaan  arall  lie  nad  oedd  yr  ymladdfa,  a  hynn  a  f uV  achos  iV  Gymry 
wií^  Genhinen. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1348,  y  buV  plag  chwya  ynghymru,  ar  y  nor- 
maniaid  ar  Saeeon.  a  Uawer  o  honynt  a  füant  feirw,  ag  ni  bu 
braidd  Gymro  yn  glaf  or  achos,  onid  y  sawl  o  oedd  oV  naill  han- 
ner yn  Sais. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1349  y  bu  clefydon  a  marw  mawr  ar  y  Gwar- 
theg  yng  wlad  yr  haf  a  Dyfnaint,  a  thyna  dechreuad  cymmeryd 
aur  yn  dal  am  wartheg  ym  Morganwg,  gan  y  saeson  a  brynasant 
lawer  i  fyned  Yv  lleoedd  y  bu  marw  amynt 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1378  y  daeth  Owain  ab  Elidir  i  Gymru  o  wlad 
firaingc,  lleV  oedd  wedi  troi  ymhlaid  Brenin  ffraingc  yn  erbyn  y 
tywysog  Edward  ddu,  ag  yn  fradwr  Lloegr,  yr  Owain  hwnnw  a 
wnaeth  dy  Teg  teg  iawn  yn  Llanelldud  fawr,  end  yr  oedd  ei  gyd- 
wybod  yn  glwyfus  ag  yn  ei  fleino  am  wneuthur  Brad  y  tywysog 
Edward  yn  fi&aingc  ag  er  penyd  efo  a  beidiws  a  chymmeryd  bwyd 
nes  marw  o  newyn,  ag  fal  yr  oeddyd  yn  dwyn  ei  gorph  ir  bedd 
fe  ddaeth  Bytheuaid  heibio,  ac  ai  brywiasant  yn  chwilfriw  candryll 
heb  adael  dau  asgwm  ynghyd  ai  gilydd,  efe  a  wnaeth  ysgrifen  yn 
gymraig  yn  adrodd  y  pethau  a  wnaeth  ef,  efe  gas  yr  Arlwydd  ei 
g^oeth  ef  a  chyfoethog  iawn  mewn  aur  ag  arian  ydoedd. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1392  fe  aeth  mab  a  merch  i  Gabidwldy  Llandaf 
bryd  (Gosper,  ag  a  fuant  yn  ddrwg  ai  gilydd  a  buant  feirw  ill  dau 
yn  ddiogel  wrth  ei  gilydd,  a^r  Escob  a  fynnodd  rhannu  ei  cyrph 
liiwng  y  Gŵn  ar  brain. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1397  y  bu  ymrj^son  rhwng  y  deiliaid  ar  Ar- 
Iwyddi  ymmorganwg,  oblegid  y  rhwym  a  haerai'r  Arlwyddi  fod  ar 


i 


66  HANESYDDIAETH    MOROANWG. 

y  deiliaid  i  ymladd  ymhlaid  yr  Arlwydd,  ar  deiliaid  jn  haeru  nad 
oedd  caeth  ddeiliadaeth  cynhenid  amynt  eithr  o  wirfodd  a  dewis 
ag  er  fod  y  Gyfoeth  ym  meddiant  yr  Arlwyddi  nad  oedd  y  deiliaid 
a^i  dalai,  aV  Brenhin  John  a  wnaeth  gadarnhaad  ar  hynny  o  hawl 
y  deiliaid  dan  amod  iddynt  ymladd  ymhiaid  y  Goron  o  Loeger,  a 
hynn  a  wnaeth  lonyddwch, 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1399  y  daeth  Gwr  o  Gymro  ag  ni  soniai  a  bwy 
dylwyth  y  daethai,  0  ryfel  aV  Tyrciaid  i  fyw  i  Gaerdyf,  ei  enw 
oedd  Llywelyn  ab  Gadwgan,  a  chymaint  oedd  ei  gyfoeth  fal  yrho- 
ddai  i  bob  tlawd  o'r  Byd  a  welai  ar  ymgais,  neu^n  dwyn  eisian,  efe 
a  wnaeth  Dy  wrth  yr  hen  dwr  Gwyn  at  Gynnfd  cleifion  a  hen  di- 
allu,  efe  a  roddaiV  maint  a  geised  gantho  nes  rhoiV  owbl,  a  gwedi 
hynny  efe  a  werthws  ei  dy  mawr  a  theg  a  elwid  y  Plas  newydd  Vr 
Mathaoaid,  ag  a  roddes  ei  worth  nis  darfuV  cyfan,  ag  efe  a  fa 
farw  0  eisiau  a  newyn,  ag  ni  roddai  neb  neb  iddo  gan  ddannod 
iddo  ei  wastraflF  ar  gyfoeth. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1401.  y  gwnaeth  pryfaid  y  dail  y  mawrddrwg 
yn  y  wlad  gan  ddifaV  dail  ar  borfa  fi^  nad  oedd  ar  eu  hôl  fwyd  iV 
anifeiliaid,  a  rhyw  un  a  fwriodd  galch  ar  hyd  y  maesydd  iw  difa  ai 
lladd  a  wnaeth  hynny,  aV  tir  a  galchwyd  fal  hynny  a  ddygodd 
gnydau  rhyfedd  o  yd  a  gwair,  ag  o  hynny  fe  aeth  calchu  tir  yn 
arfer  gyffredin  ym  Morganwg. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1403,  y  bu  ymgystadln  chwaryddiaeth  rhwng 
chwech  ugain  o  wyr  Morganwg  a  chynnifer  un  o  Wir  Ghrent,  a 
gwyr  Morganwg  a  ddygasant  y  Bel  yn  y  chwaryddiaeth.  ag  ar 
hynny  Uidio  a  wnaeth  Gwyr  Gwent,  a  thynny  daggerau,  a  haeru 
i  wyr  Morganwg  ddwyn  ei  heiddo'^n  arian  ag  yn  ddillad  amynt,  a 
hwy  a  laddasant  fwy  na  chant  o  wyr  a  Gwragedd  a  phlant  y  creu- 
londeb  hynn  a  fu  o  achos  i  wyr  Morganwg  ddwyn  y  Gamp  ymhob 

chwareu  amynt, a  hyn  a  fu  achos  y  ddiareb  lladron  Moigan- 

wg  yng  Went,  aV  ddiareb  Gwaedcwn  G^ent  ym  Morganwg. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1407,  y  daeth  pysgodyn  mawr  i  dir  rhwng  St 
Dunwyd  a  Llanilltud  lie  bu  farw  a  drewi''n  fawr  iawn  a  wnaeth  a 
bod  yn  achos  mawr  glefydon  oV  diwedd  fe  gasglwys  y  wlad  lawer 
o  Goed  a  gwellt  iddei  losgi  a  hynn  a  dannws  y  drewynt  lawer  fwy 
ar  led  nag  oedd  oedd  oV  blaen,  a  pheri  llawer  o  glefyd  a  marw  ar 
ddynion  ag  anifeiliaid,  ar  gwartheg  ar  ychen.  yn  bennaf,  a  Syr 
Edward  Stradling  a  roddai  lawer  o  wartheg  i  weiniaid  y  wlad  a 
ddaothant  gantho  o'^i  dir  ei  hun  yngwlad  yr  haf  yr  oedd  y  pysgodyn 
yn  ddwy  lath  ar  hugein  ei  hyd  a  rhwng  tair  a  phedair  Hath  ei 
uwchder. 


HANESYDDIAETH.  67 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1411  y  daeth  Llong  fawr  i  dir  dan  Goed  tre- 
silian  ag  ni  chespwyd  un  yn  wlad  ym  medru  îaith  y  Llongwyr, 
Yr  Arlwydd  tir  a  gymerodd  y  llong,  ag  on  or  dynion  oV  llong 
a  ddysgodd  gyntaf  iV  Oymru  aV  Saeson  wan  hosanau  ar  y 
gweilUon. 

Yn  y  flwyddyn  1419,  y  bu  tri  diwamod  o  wres  mawr  iawn  îal 
J  bn  &rw  dynion  ag  anifeUiaid  lawer,  ar  adar  yn  marw  aV  hedfiEin 
a  bn  £Mrw  y  pryd  hynnyr  pryfûd  gleision  i  gyd  yn  Ynys  Piyd- 
ain  ag  ni  welwyd  nn  o  honyn  fyth  .wedyn,  a  daeth  mwy  o  lea  ir 
wlad  o  hynn  o  both,  nag  o  afles  am  y  drwg  a  wnaeth  y  gwres,  fe 
fa  Uwyn  o  goed  ar  bare  margam  grino  a  marw  a  llawer  or  Goed  ar 
perthy  o  amgylch  yr  aes  fawr  ag  yn  y  blaen  ffordd  hynny  yn  er- 
gyd  haul  tri  ar  y  gloch  oV  dydd. 

Yn  yr  amser  Harri  yr  ail  y  gwnaethpwyd  Gynffig  a  Ghaerdydd 
ag  aberaron,  a  Thref  Beferad  a  Uanilltud,  aV  Bont  &en  yn  <Lref- 
ydd  riiyddion  gan  yr  Arlwydd,— ar  wig  aV  Brychtwn  eithr  GoU- 
asant  ea  teunt  am  ymladd  gydag  Owain  Glyndwr. 


HANESYDDIAETH, 

0  FAN-BAPURAU  Y  PARCH.  EVAN   EVANS,  YM  MHEECHENOGAETH 
PAUL  PANTON,  YSW.  SIR  FON. 

1405  By  Gad  a  lladd  gwaedlyd  a  braidd  erioed  ei  ffemiccach 
yng  Nghymru  ar  fynydd  y  pwll  melyn  wrth  Fryn  Buga,  ac  yno 
dalwyd  Guffudd  ab  0?rain  ai  Wyr  ac  ai  dygwyd  yngharchar  law- 
eroedd,  a  lladd  llawer  hefydd  wedi  eu  dal,  ac  yna  yr  ymroddes 
holl  Forganwg  yn  Saeson,  dieithr  bychan  onifer  a  aethant  at  eu 
harglwydd  i  Wynedd,  Ue  ydd  epiliasant  ac  y  gwledychasant. 

1406  Ymroddes  Gwyr  Ystrad  Tywy  a  Phebydiawg  a  Chered- 
igion  yn  Saeson.  a  gorfa  ar  geraint  Owain  fyned  dan  gudd  a  chel 
a  llawer  i  Lydaw  ar  Werddon.  a  gwobrwyeu  brad  a  gwrthgyflFro 
yn  gwneuthur  y  cwbl  yn  ofer  lie  ydd  ymdrechaint  y  Cymry  am  eu 
braint  ai  coron.  a  gwlad  Gymru  wedi  ymdylodi,  hyd  nis  gellid 
bwyd  a  gynnalaiV  bywyd  namyn  o'*r  gobrwyeu  a  roddei  y  Brenin. 

1408  Gwyr  Morgan wg  yn  ymgyffroi  Gan  gael  ei  gorwasgu  gan 
wyr  y  Brenin,  yna  llawer  oV  pendefigion  a  geisiaint  fodd  y  Brenin 
a  lodgasant  eu  deisydd  yd  au  hysguborau  fal  uas  cai  y  rhai  a 


68  HANESYDDIAETH. 

gefnogaint  Owain  y  bywyd  a  fai  achos,  a^r  pendefigion  yn  fib  hyd 
yn  eithafoedd  Lloegr  a  Gwynedd  lie  au  difiynid  yn  y  Cestyll  ar 
Glynnoedd,  a  gwŷr  y  Brenin,  ac  a  gwobrwyon  brad  a  chynUwyn, 
fal  nas  gallai  Owain  oresgyn  ei  dir  ai  Oyfoeth  gan  y  Brad  a  gaffed 
ym  Mon  ag  Arfon,  a  gwyr  Morganwg  ai  galwai  Brâd  Penmynydd 
Môn. 

1410,  Daliwyd  naw  edwiccwr  gobrwyon  Brad  a  Ohynllwyn  yn 
Morganwg  a  Gwent  ac  ystrad  Tywi  a  Gheredigion  ac  an  crog?^ 
gan  wỳr  y  wlad  yn  erbyn  bodd  Owain,  sef  y  mynnai  ef  en  cadw 
yngharchar  Gwystl  ac  nid  eu  lladd 

1413  cafas  y  Brenin  ai  wyr  y  goreu  ar  Owain  ai  Wŷr  ac  o 
hynny  allan  myned  Waethwaeth  ar  Owain  ai  gymhlaid. 

1415.  Aeth  Owain  ar  ddifant  ag  oV  wlad  heb  le  golwg  amo  na 
chlyw  am  Dano,  sef  y  dywedir  ei  ddianc  yn  rhith  medelwr  yn 
dwyn  fal  y  dywedai  y  diweddaf  ai  adnabyddai,  a  chwedi  hynny  ni 
wybuwyd  fawr  am  dano  na  modd  na  mann  ei  ddifant.  y  thsai  fwyaf 
a  ddywedant  ei  farw  mewn  Coed  ym  Morganwg  ond  y  Bmdwyr 
a  ddywant  ei  fod  yn  fyw  efe  a^i  wyr  yn  eu  cwsg  ar  eu  harfau  mewn 
gogof  a  elwir  gogof  y  ddinas  ym  Mro  Gwent.  hyd  yn  y  Uygro 
Lloegr  ei  hunan,  aV  pryd  hynny  y  daw  ef  allan  ag  ydd  ennUl  ef 
eu  Gwlad  au  Braint,  a'u  Coron  i  genedl  y  Gymry  fal  nas  coUaint 
fyth  wedi  hynny  hyd  ddydd  brawd  pan  llosger  yr  hoU  fyd  ac  ai 
gwneir  or  newyd  fal  nas  gellir  trais  a  di&awd  fyth  wedi  wedi 
hynny.  a  gwyn  ei  fyd  a  welo  yr  Amser. 

1417  Gwaharddwyd  braint  Crefft  ag  ysgol  i'r  Cymry  namyn 
dysgu  Saesoneg  ag  yna  dwyn  Saeson  yn  athrawon  Saesoneg  i 
Gymru,  megys  ag  ydd  aeth  y  Saesoneg  ar  dafod  a  llafar  y  Gymry 
ac  nid  oedd  I3raint  gwlad  a  Ghyfraith  i  neb  ond  a  wyppai  Saesoneg 
ag  nis  gwyppai  Gymraeg  ac  o  hynny  allan  llawer  oV  Gymry  yn 
ymwadu  a^u  hiaith,  ac  yn  ymroi  yn  Saeson. 


MAN-GOFION. 


PADRIC  SANT* 


Ctlch  oed  Crist  420.  yr  oedd  ynys  Prydain  M  heb  na  phen  na 
pherchen  yn  egored  i  bob  gormes  gelyn  ag  alltud  a  boll  arfogion 
jT  ynys  draw  Tr  mor  jn  ymladd  ar  ormes  ddu  ag  oeddent  jn 
diffeithio  pob  gwlad  Gred  a  bedjdd,  ar  gwyddelod  yn  un  a  gwyr 
Llychlyn  yr  amser  hynny  yn  cyd  ormesu  ar  ynys  Prydain  ag  un 
o^u  Uongau  yn  medm  mor  Ha&en  ei  gwyr  a  diriasant  gan  ddwyn 
yspail  ddiriawr  yn  yd  ag  yn  wartheg  a  phob  golud  symmudadwy 
a  fedraint  amo  a  chyda  hynny  dwy  meibon  a  merched  a  dwyn 
Padric  Sant  o  Fangor  Dewdws  Tr  werddon,  ag  o  hynny  buV  fan- 
gor  yn  amddifad  o  ben  ag  Athraw  yspaid  mwy  na  dengmlynedd 
ac  yn  dorriedig  o  for  ag  amgae.  a  Phadric  yn  y  werddon  yn  ym- 
roddi  yn  gadam  i  ddangos  a  dysgV  ffydd  yng  Nghnst  fr  gwerdd- 
oniaid  gwyddelod  a  llychlyniaid  a  bu  hylwydd  ei  orchwyl  ac  o 
hynny  y  Ga£Eis  y  gwyddelod  en  gwybodau  Cred  a  bedydd.  a  rhai 
oV  Llychlyniaid  a  ymdrosant  iV  ffydd  yng  Nghnst.  ag  ni  ddaeth 
fyth  yn  ol  i  Oymru  er  aros  a  gwladychu  gan  iddo  gael  mae  gwell 
dynion  y  gwyddelod  naV  Cymru  yn  yr  amser  oedd  hynny. 


CUNEDDA  WLEDIG.t 

CcxEDDA  Wledig  a  yrrws  y  Gwyddelod  o  Dir  Gwyr  ar  Tri- 
chwmmwd,  ac  am  hynny  rhodded  iddo  fraint  Brenin  ar  y  wlad 
honno,  a  gelwV  frehinaeth  honno  Rheged^  aV  Cynnal  yn  Aber- 
Uychwr,  ag  efe  a  wnaeth  Gastell  rhyfeddol  ei  faint  ai  gadernyd,  ei 
wychder  yno,  ai  ddihenydd  yno  fyth  yn  wledig  hyd  heddyw.  er- 
aill  a  ddywedant  mai  Urien  Rheged  a  yrrwya  y  Gwyddelod  o  Dir 
Gwyr  Amser  Uthur  Bendragon,  ac  mai  am  hynny  y  cafas  ef 
Deymedd  y  wlad  ai  galw  Rheged^  a  gwneuthur  Castell  a  Thref 
ddinesig  yn  Aberllychwr.  Lie  buV  Cynnal  hyd  ym  mhen  y  saith 
genhedlaeth  ag  yna  myned  yn  adwedd  yn  un  a  Morgannwg  fal 
y  bu  or  dechreuad,  ogogail  sef  o  briodas,  ac  felly  bu  hyd  yn  amser 


*  O  Lyfr  Antoni  Powel,  o  Lwydarth, — medd  loio  Marganwg. 
tHafod  MS. 


70  MAN-GOFION. 

Edgar  Brenin  Llundain  ac  Owain  ap  Hywel  Dda  ag  yna  goUwng 
i  Owain  ap  Hywell  Dda  Gwlad  Bheged,  ag  i  Foigan  hen  Iftrenin 
Morganwg  Euas  ac  Ergin,  ac  Ystrad  yw,  sef  oeddent  j  Gwledydd 
hynny  ym  Mhlwyf  Esgob  Morganwg  a  Llandaf,  A  Gwlad  B^ged 
ym  MUwyf  Mynyw  a  Dewi  Sant ;  A  chwedi  hynny  y  dug  Wil- 
liam de  Lwndiys  y  Tri  Ghwmmwd  nid  amgen  na  Chydweli  A 
Ghamwyllion  ac  Isgennen  oddiar  Dywysogion  Dinefwr  an  had- 
weddu  yn  Un  a  Morganwg ;  hyd  amser  y  Brenin  Harri  j  bum- 
med, ac  yna  Bheged  a  ddoded  yn  nn  ag  Ystrad  Tywi  &1  y  bn  yn 
Amseroedd  Tywysogion  Dinefwr  a  rhoi  enw  swydd  Qaerfyrddyn 
ar  y  Gwledydd  hynny,  fal  y  mae  fyth  hyd  yn  awr,  Ue  yn  mn  am- 
ser ni  y  gwnaethpwyd  y  ddosparth  newydd  ar  wlc^dydd  Oymni 
ac  attodi  Gwlad  Gwyr  yn  Un  a  Sir  Gaer  Dydd  a  elwir  Mor- 
ganwg.—(hyd  yma  Llyfr  ysgrif  Hafod  Uchdryd) 


URIEN  RHEGED  .♦  . 

GiLMWR  Bechdyr  Brenin  Werddon  a  ddaeth  i  Gymm  yn 
Gystenin  Fendigaid  ag  a  ddug  yn  Ormes  y  Bann  honno  o  For- 
ganwg  a  geffir  rwng  Afon  Tawy  ag  Afon  Tywy,  nid  amgen  Can- 
tref  Gwyr  a  Llychwr,  aV  Tri  Ghwmmwd,  nid  amgen,  Gydweli, 
Gamwyllon,  ag  Iscennen,  ag  au  traws  oresgynnes,  hyd  yn  Amser 
y  Brenin  Arthur,  ag  yna  danfones  Arthur  Dywysawg  gwrolgamp 
gorchestawl  o'r  Ford  Gronn  a  elwid  Urien  ab  Cynfarch  ab  Meir- 
chion  Gul,  ap  Geneu  ap  Goel  G^debog,  a  chydag  ef  ef  ddengmil  o 
wyr  gafaelgyrch  calonogion  i  adynnill  y  Ghrledydd  hynny  oddiar 
y  gormesben  Gilmwr  Wyddel,  ag  Urien  au  gyrres  yn  fib  ag  an 
lladdes  yn  gelanedd,  a  llawer  or  Gwyddyl  diangc  a  fibasant  hyd  yn 
Ynys  Fon  at  eu  cydwladwyr  a  hanoeddynt  o  G^nedl  y  Gwyddyl, 
ag  yna  Meibion  Gyneddaf  WIedig  au  lladdes,  yn  ysgethrin,  A 
gwedi  adynnill  o  Urien  Wlad  Gwyr  ar  Trichwmmwd,  efe  a  gys- 
segrwyd  yn  Frenin  ar  y  Wlad  honno,  a  Bheged  a^i  gelwid,  Achaws 
hynny  gelwid  Urien  ap  Cynfarch  yn  Urien  BiCged. 

URIEN  RHEGED  ETTO. 

Llyma  C^yfarwyddyd  am  Urien  Beged,  ap  Cynfarch  Nai  Ar- 
thur, ap  Meirchion  Gul,  ap  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  ap  Cenau,  ap  Goel 

♦  0  Lyfr  Watkin  Giles,  o  Langanna. 


MAN-GOFION.  71 

Oodebawc  Brenin  Gwledig  sef  hynny  ymherawdr  Ynys  Prydain,  ag 
Urien  Uieged  oedd  firenin  Bheged  ym  Morganwg  a  Brenin  Mwrif 
yn  yr  Alban.  ag  yn  amser  y  Brenin  Arthur  ydoedd  ef^  ac  a  gafas 
gan  Arthur  y  Wlad  a  elwid  Bheged,  nid  amgen  na  honno  y  rhwng 
afon  Tawy  ac  afon  Tywy,  eef  Ghvyr,  Gedweli,  a  Chamwyllon,  ac 
Ifloennen,  a  Chyda  rhai  hynny  y  Gantref  Bychan,  yn  Frenhiniaeth. 
Ar  Llys  Gynnal  yn  Aberllychwr  yng  Ngwyr,  ac  efe  a  wnaeth  Gas- 
tell  Gadam  yno  a  elwid  Gastell  Aber  Llyw. 

Yn  Amser  Arthur  Ymherawdd  fe  ddaeth  Glaian  Ecdawr  ai  wyr 
eef  Chryddyl  oeddynt  o'r  Werddon  i  Wyr  ym  Morganwg  ac  a 
Wledychaŵìt  yno  naw  mis,  ac  Arthur  a  ddûifones  Urien  ei  Nai 
yn  erbyn  y  Qwyr  hynny  ac  Urien  ai  drichannyn  ai  gyrrwys  ym- 
aith  yna  aethant  y  Gwyddyl  gwedi  lladd  eu  Brenin  Gladan  Ecdawr, 
i  Ynys  Fôn  ac  a  wledychasant  yno  lie  ydd  oedd  yno  ou  blaen  eu 
cydwladwyr,  Ac  Arthur  a  roddes  Wlad  B^ed  a  elwid  felly  o  enw 
Gwr  o  Bufain  a  iuasai  Arglwydd  y  wlad  cyn  oi  hynnyll  gan  y 
Glaian  hwnnw  ai  Wyddyl,  i  Urien  yn  oresgynaeth  Freiniawl  am 
ei  wychder  gwyroldebus  yn  Bhyfel.  A  merch  oedd  i  Urien  Beged 
a  elwid  Eliwri,  a  hi  a  honno  a  fu  wraic  Briod  Morgan  Morganwc, 
Mab  hefyd  oedd  i  Urien  a  elwir  Pasgen ;  a  hwnnw  a  fu  {renin 
crenlon  ac  yn  Ghumfradwr  Gwlad,  achaws  y  dideymwyd  ef,  a  dodi 
Owlad  Bheged  herwydd  ei  hansawdd  gyssefin  yn  un  a  Morganwg, 
ac  fel  hynny  y  bu  hyd  yn  Amser  Owain  ab  Hywel  dda  ab  Ciidell, 
ab  Bhodri  mawr  Brenin  Gymry  oil.* 


HANES  TALIESIN.t 

Taubsin  Ben  Beirdd  ap  Henwg  Sant  o  Gaerllion  ar  wysg  a 
wahodded  i  Lys  Urien  Beged  yn  Aber  Llychwr.  Ag  efe  ac  Elphin 
ab  Urien  mewn  Bol  croen  ar  y  mor  yn  Pysgotta,  Llyma  Long 
Morleidr  oV  werddon  yn  ei  gymmeryd  ai  fol  croen  hefyd,  a  thuar 
werddon  ag  efe  a  phan  oedd  y  Lladron  pen  lawenaf  yn  ei  diod 
gwthies  Daliesin  y  Bol  i^r  mor  ac  yn  ei  law  Tarian  a  gafas  yn  y 
Llong  ac  a  honno  Bhwyfo'^r  Bol  ond  oedd  arglais  Tir  ar  Tonnau 
yn  torn  yn  evrynfriw  colles  ef  ei  afael  ar  y  darian  yna  nid  oedd 
ond  gadael  i'r  mor  ac  eled  ac  ef  lleMd  elai.     ac  felly  y  bu  ac  ym- 


*  0  Lyfr  Hir  Thomas  Truman,  o  Bant  Lliwydd,  ym  Morganwg. — Gwelais 
achos  i  greda  bod  dalen  ar  goU  yn  Llyfr  Pantlliwydd. — lolo  Morganitg. 
1 0  Lyfr  Anthoni  Powel  o  Lwydarth, — medd  lolo  Morganvg, 


72  MAN-GOFION. 

hen  amser  bach  glynwys  y  bol  ar  flaen  Pawl  cored  wyddno  Ar- 
Iwydd  Ceredigion  yn  Aberdyfi,  a  11  jnaV  lie  ai  cafv^yd  ef  ar  y  Trai 
gan  bysgodwyr  Gwyddno.  a  holi  helynt  iddo  a  Ghlywed  mai  Bardd 
ac  Athraw  Elffin  ap  Urien  Bheged  ap  Gynfarch  oedd,  y  mae  mab 
i  minnau  enw  Elffin  ebe  Gwyddno,  bydd  fardd  ag  atlu*aw  iddaw 
ynteu  a  thi  a  gai  diroedd  gennyf  yn  rydd  ag  yn  Bad  ac  feUy  y  bn 
ac  0  hynny  bwrw  ei  amser  î  gyd  agos  rwng  Llys  Urien  Bheged  a 
Llys  Gwyddo  sef  Gwyddno  Garanlur  ai  gelwid  ef  Aiglwydd  Can- 
tre'r  Gwaelod,  a  gwedi  Boddi  Tiroedd  Gwyddno  G^an  y  Mor 
gwahodded  Taliesin  gan  yr  Amherawdr  Arthur  iddei  Lys  yng 
Nghaerlleon  ar  Wysg,  Lie  bu  yn  glodfawr  am  Awen  a  Qwybodau 
Daionus  a  moliannus,  gwedi  Marw  Arthur  myned  iddei  Dir  ei 
hunan  a  gafas  ef  gan  Wyddno.  a  chymmeryd  Elffin  ap  Ghiryddno 
yn  ei  nawdd.  or  gyfarwydd  hyn  y  cymmeres  Tomas  ap  Einion 
Offeiriad  o  wehelyth  Gruff.  Gwyr  Ei  Bwmawnt  am  Daliesin  ap  Gar^ 
iadwen,  ac  Elffin  ap  Goddnou  a  Bhun  ap  Maelgwn  Ch¥ynedd.  a 
Gwaith  Pair  Geridwen. 


ACH  TALIESIN  BEN  BEIRDD.* 

Taliein  Ben  Beirdd,  ap  Einwg  hen  o  Gaerllion  ar  Wysg  ym 
Morganwg  ap  Fflwch  Lawdrwm,  ap  Gynin,  ap  Gynfar,  ap  Glydawc, 
ap  Gvrynnar,  ap  Gadren,  ap  Gynan,  ap  Gyllin,  ap  Garadoc,  ap  Bran, 
ap  Llyr  Llediaith,  Brenin  o  Afon  Wy  hyd  Afon  Tywy 

[Mewn  man  arall  yn  yr  un  Llyfr  fal  hynn,] 

Taliesin  Ben  Beirdd  y  Gt)rllewin,  ap  Henwg  Sant  o  Gaerllion 
ar  Wysg,  ap  Fflwch,  ap  Gynin,  ap  Gynfarch,  ap  Glydawc  Sant  o 
Dir  Euas,  ap  Gwynnar,  ap  Gaid,  ap  Gadren,  ap  Gynan,  ap  Gyllin, 
ap  Garadawc,  ap  Bran,  ap  Llyr  Llediaith,  Brenin  Penrhaith  ar 
Frenhinoedd  Ynys  Prydain.  a  Brenin  o  Baladr  o  Afon  Wy  hyd 
Afon  Tywy.  Y  mod  yddaeth  Daliesin  yn  Ben  Beirdd  y  GorUewin, 
oedd  rhoi  amo  arwain  Gadair  y  Ford  gron  ynghaerllion  ar  wysg. 

ACH  TALIESIN  BEN  BEIRDD.f 

Taliesin  Ben  Beirdd  y  GorUewin,  ap  Henwg  Fardd  o  Got  Cat- 
twg  Sant,  ap  Fflwch  Lawdrwm  o  Gaerllion  ar  Wysg  ym  Mor- 

•  O  Lyfr  tew  Thomas  Hobcin,  o  Langrallo. 
t  0  Lyfr  Hafod  Uchtryd. 


MAN-GOFION.  73 

ganwg,  ap  Gjnfar,  ap  Glydawc  Sant,  ap  Gwynnar  ap  Gadrain,  ap 
Cjnan,  ap  Garadawc,  ap  Bran  fendigaid  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Taliesin  Ben  Beirdd  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Llanhenwg  yng  Nhaer- 
Uion  ar  Wysg,  er  côf  am  ei  Dad  a  elwid  Henwg  Sant  a  f a  jn 
RhoÊdn  gyda  Ghystenin  Fendigaid  jn  cyrchu  Gtumon  Sant  a 
Bleiddan  Sant  i  Ynys  Prydain  i  wellhau  Gred  ao  i  adnewyddu 
Bedydd  yn  Ynys  Prydain.* 

Taliesin  a  ab  Henwg  ddaliwyd  gan  y  Gwyddelod  Gwylltion  a 
wledychasant  o  Drais  yn  Nhir  gwyr  ag  fal  yr  oedd  ef  mewn  llong 
ar  gyrch  y  Werddon,  efe  a  welai  fol  croen  ar  y  mor  heb  ynddo  na 
dyn  na  da,  ar  bol  a  ddaeth  yng  nghyfyl  y  Llong  yna  Taliesin  a 
gymmerodd  astalch  groen  yn  ei  law  ag  a  neidioedd  Vr  Bol  croen^ 
ag  ai  rhwyfodd  aV  astalch  ag  a  ddaeth  ar  bawl  yng  Nghored 
Ghryddno  Garanhir,  a  phendefig  ieuangc  ai  Enw  Elphin  ai  gweles 
ar  y  Pawl  ag  ai  gwaredoedd,  Yr  Elphin  hwn  ydoedd  yn  myned 
dan  Enw  Mab  Gwyddno,  a  Mab  Elifri  Merch  gwyddno  oedd  ef 
ond  nis  gwyddit  o  bwy  yn  y  byd  y  pryd  hynny,  A  gwedi  hynny 
cafwyd  mai  Urien  Bheged  Brenin  Gwyr  ag  Aberllychwr  oedd  Tad 
Elplün,  ag  Urien  ai  dygodd  i  lys  Arthur  ynghaerUion  ar  wysg,  Ue 
gwelwyd  amo  gampao,  a  Gwybodao,  a  Ghyferddonau  gystal  ag  y 
gwnaed  ef  yn  farchog  Aurdafodawc  oV  ford  gronn.  a  Thaliesin  yn 
Ben  Bardd  y  Ford  Gronn,  a  gwedi  marw  Arthur  ydd  aeth  Tal- 
iesin yn  Ben  Bardd  Urien  Bheged  yn  Aberllychwr  yn  Rheged. 


MAELGWN  GWYNEDD. 

Tri  Phenbardd  Maelgwn  Gwynedd  a  fuant  hefyd  yn  Dri  chy- 
sefin  Prifeirdd  Gwynedd,  Gyntaf,  Mynach  ap  Nywmon,  (al,  ap 
mydnaw)  mab  Brenin  Ore,  ail  Unhwch  unarchen,  3  Maeldaf  ap 
Unhwch.  A  Thaliessin  Ben  Beirdd  a  enilles  y  Penn  ar  y  Tri  hynn 
o  ellwng  ElflSn  ap  Gwynddnaw  o  Garchar  Maelgwn  Gwynedd 
UeMd  amaw  drichlo  ar  ddeg, 

Gwedy  dwyn  Coron  Lundain,  a'i  Theymwialen  i  gan  Genedl 
Gymry  ag  ai  deol  o  Loegr  y  gosodosant  ddadlau  i  edrych  pwy  a 

♦  Yn  canlyn  yr  ach  ddiweddaf,  yn  Llyfr  Hafod  Uchtryd,  y  mae'r  Hanes 
ganlyniadol ;  pa  un  nid  ydyw  yn  amrafaelu  ond  ychydig  oddiwrth  yr  Hanes 
ragflaeniadol ;  ond  gwelir  ei  bod  rywfaint  yn  fwy  ymgyssylltedig  ag  eiif- 
orrhestaeth  Llys  Arthur.  Mae  yr  hanes  yn  ol  Llyfr  Antoni  Powel  yn  rhydd 
o  unrhyw  ofeigoeledd,  ac  yn  gysson  à  chynnhebygrwydd. — Ab  Iolo. 


74  MAN^OFION. 

fai  Frenin  pennaf  o  naddynt,  ac  ys  ef  lie  y  gosodasant  eu  dadlan, 
ar  Draeth  Maelgwn  yn  Aber  Dyfi.  Ag  yna  daethant  €h?yr  Gtwy- 
nedd,  a  G-wyr  Powys,  a  Qwyr  Deheubarth,  a  Khieinwg,  ag  E^ 
syllwg,  a  Morganwg,  Ag  yna  y  dodea  Maelda  hynaf  mab  Unhweh 
Unarchen,  Pendefig  Penardd  yn  Arfon,  Gbdair  Wen  o  adanedd 
cwyredig  y  dan  Faelgwn  a  phan  ddoeth  y  Llanw  ni  Allaiant  ddi- 
oddef  y  Llanw  namyn  Maelgwn,  o  achaws  y  GkMlair,  ag  wrth 
hynny  y  cafas  Maelgwn  fod  yn  Frenin  pennsî,  ag  Aberffiraw  yn 
Ben  Llysoedd,  a  larll  Mathrafal,  a  larll  Dinefwr,  a  larll  Gaeiilion 
a  danaw  ynten^  a  gair  yw  ei  air  ef  ar  naddynt  hwy,  a  Ghy&aiih 
yw  ei  Gyfraith,  a  rhaid  yw  iddynt  hwy  gadw  ei  Gyfraith  ef,  a 
thrwy  ben  Maelda  hynaf  y  OaCeus  Penardd  ei  braint,  ai  bod  yn 
hyns^  Ganghellawrdref. 


BENWYLL» 

Yn  Amser  benwyll  Athraw  y  doded  Celfyddyd  gyntaf  ar  ddwyn 
Arfau  bonedd,  ag  nis  dylid  arfau  i  neb  onid  a  geffid  yn  wr  ofonedd 
cynhenid  sef  ym  mraint  y  nawfed  ach  neu  ynteu  y  nawfed  gores- 
gyn,  ag  yn  wr  gwlad  ag  Arglwydd.  a'r  nawfed  goresgyn  a  saif  ym 
mraint  y  nawfed  Ach,  yn  amgen  o  fodd  nag  yn  nhreigl  Gwehelyth, 
y  llyma^r  modd  ai  tre&er  nid  amgen. 

Gyntaf  oV  naw  goresgyn  yw  mab  aillt  sef  yw  mab  aillt  Elstron 
yn  wr  damdwng  gwlad  ag  Arglwydd.  ag  aillt  adlaw  ai  gelwir. 

Ail  goresgyn  priodas  mab  aillt  a  Chymraes  gynhenid. 

Trydydd  goresgyn  mab  a  aner  ©''r  Briodas  honno. 

Pedwerydd,  priodas  y  mab  hwnnw  sef  mab  aillt  cyssefin  a 
Chymraes  gynhenid. 

Pummed  goresgyn  Mab  a  aner  6*r  briodes  honno.  sef  wyr  ir 
Adlaw. 

Chweched  goresgyn  priodas  y  mab  hwnnw  a  Chymraes  gyn- 
henid, 

Seithfed  goresgyn  mab  a  aner  oV  briodas  honno,  ag  orwyr  yr 
Adlaw. 

Wythfed  goresgyn  priodas  y  mab  hwnnw  a  Chymraes  gyn- 
henid. 

Nawfed  goresgyn,  mab  a  aner  or  briodas  honno,  a  goresgynnydd 
yr  Adlaw  yw  ef.  sef  achos  ai  gelwir  yn  oresgynnydd  ei  fod  yn 

*  Llyfr  Antoni  Py wel,  o  Dir  larll. 


76  MAN-GOFION. 

Brenhinoedd  a  Thywysogion  a  Marchogion  Urddasolion,  ag  yn  y 
wledd  honno  y  pens  Arthur  gynnal  y  campai  Gwrolion  herwydd 
Defodau  yr  hen  Gymry,  tros  ddeugain  niwamawd,  ac  yna  bu  yr 
ymorchestu  mwyaf  amynt  ac  a  wybuwyd  erioed  a  gwedi  dangos  o 
bawb  ei  gorchestion  Gamporaidd  y  dodes  Arthur  iddynt  ArtskU  a 
Thrwydded  Llys  iddynt  ac  i  bob  un  herwydd  y  gamp  amaw  ar 
orchest  a  rywnaethoedd  ac  efe  a  wnaeth  ddosparth  ar  Ar&u  Bonedd 
mal  y  gwypid  Celfyddyd  deilwng  ar  ddwyn  arfau  parth  Lliw  ac  ar- 
wydd  a  Threfn.  cans  cyn  no  hynny  nid  oedd  namyn  arwydd  Genedl 
ar  arfau  Bonedd  ar  wybod  ir  Gymry  yn  Ynys  Prydain,  ac  wrth  y 
drefn  a  rywnathoedd  Arthur  y  cedwir  Arfau  Bonedd  hyd  heddyw. 
A  Gwedi  hynny  ydd  aeth  gwybodau  Arfau  Bonedd  ar  wall  a  cliy- 
feiliom  a  Siarl  y  maen  Amherawdr  Yropia  a  gymmerth  atto  y 
gelfydd  ac  a  beris  gynnal  Gynghor  a  Bam  ami,  a  gwedi  cael  hynn 
trefnwyd  y  fam  honno^n  gelfyddyd  ddosparthus  ac  yno  nghyntaf 
y  doded  ddwyn  Aur  ac  arian  ar  Arfau  Bonedd,  Ue  cyn  no  hynny 
y  dywettid  wyn  a  melin  herwydd  chwelliw  arfau  bonedd,  ar  Siari 
y  maen  hwnnw  a  wnaeth  drefh  gyntaf  ar  chwarau  trwn  a  dodi  ar 
hynny  Dosparth  Celfyddyd  herwydd  Braint  a  Theilyngdod  yn  ail 
a  rynwnathoedd  Arthur  ymherawdr,  ac  o  hynny  yddaeth  chwarau 
trwn  yn  ben  urddas  ac  yn  briforchest  ar  bob  Gamp  chwarau  ac  yn 
nosparth  y  campau  urddasolion  hyn  y  cadamhawyd  y  Gelfyddyd 
oddwyn  arfau  bonedd  gan  ei  gwellhau  ogyfhod  i  gy&od  ac  o  bryd 
i  bryd  mal  y  caid  achos,  ac  arddangos  ar  y  modd  y  dylid  dihanu  a 
Threfnu  arfau  bonedd  herwydd  lliw,  ac  arwydd  ac  ansawdd,  yn 
drefnedig  ac  yn  gywair  ohani  sef  am  dri  achos  y  dyddygir  ar&n 
Bonedd,  nod  Cenedl  a  gwehelyth,  nod  urddas  o  gamp  a  gwybod 
ag  arwydd  cof  am  a  fu  gynt  ar  Emi'r  Genedl.  (Byddemi.) 

O  LYFR  DU  PANTLLIWYDD. 

Yr  achos  y  dychymygwyd  Gelfyddyd  Pais  Arfau,  ac  ai  cadam- 
hawyd o  Gyfraith  ddosparthus  ydoedd  mal  y  gellid  i  bob  Llwyih 
a  Ghenedl  ei  harwyddon  yn  warantedic,  ac  y  gellid  adnabod  pob  un 
herwydd  ei  genedl,  ac  y  gallai  bob  gwr  ymgystlwn  ai  genedl  ei  hun, 
yn  nawdd  ei  Bencendl,  ymhob  Cyfiro  Gwlad,  ag  ymhob  dygynnull 
Gwlad  a  Ghenedl,  heb  na  rhaid  na  gofyn  am  wybodaeth  amgen  na 
golwg  ar  y  Gwiscawdr  neuV  Dygiawdr,  ac  o  hynn  medru  o  bob 
gwr  ar  ei  le  ai  ansawdd  lie  ydd  ymluyddai,  yn  rhaid  Gwlad  a 
Ghenedl.  a  gwr  a  fu  gynt  ai  enw  Benwyll  yn  dysgu  Gelfyddyd 
Arfau,  a  goreu  o  neb  a  fu  erioed  oedd  efe  ar  y  gelfyddyd  honno. 


78  MAN-GOFION. 

yng  Ngwyroswydd.  a  Chadair  y  Gorllewin  ym  Mangor  Deifi,  yn 
Nawdd  Oedig  ap  Caredig  ap  Oyneddaf  wledig,  gwedi  hynny  gwa- 
hodded  ef  i  gyfoeth  Gwyddnyw  ap  Gwydion  yn  arllechwedd  arfon 
a  chael  braint  yno  ar  Dir  a  daear,  ag  yno  ymansoddi  hyd  yn  amser 
Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  Ham  y  dygwyd  hynny  oddiamo.  ag  yno  y 
canes  Taliesin  ei  felldith  ar  Faelgwn  ac  ar  oU  a  feddai,  yna  daethr 
oedd  y  Fad  felen  i  Bos  aV  neb  aM  gwelai,  dir  iddaw  ei  olaith,  a 
hynny  yn  anesgorawl,  a  Maelgwn  Gwynedd  a'i  gweles  drwy  dwU 
y  clo  yn  Eglwys  Bhos,  ag  a  fu  farw  o^i  gweled.  a  Thaliesin  a  ddaeth 
yn  ei  ôl  i  Gaer  wyroswydd  at  Biwallon  ap  Urien  yn  ei  oedforion 
ddyddiau.  a  gwedi  hynny  ymweled  a  Chedig  ap  Caredig,  ap 
Cyneddaf  Wledig  lie  bn  farw,  ag  yno  y  claddwyd  ef,  yn  an- 
rhydeddus  fal  y  gweddai  ymddwyn  parth  ag  at  ŵr  o  Brifddoeth- 
ion  Cenedl  y  Cymry.  a  goreu  or  goreuon  oedd  Taliesin  Ben 
Beirdd  am  bob  gwybodau  Lien  a  Doethineb  a  Chelfyddyd  Gerdd 
Dafod.  a  phob  Gwybodau  Bydolion  a  Dwyfolion.  ag  fal  hyn  y  ter- 
fyn  y  gyfarwyddyd  am  Brif  Feirdd  Cadair  Caerllion  ar  wysg  a 
elwir  yn  awr  Cadair  Morganwg. — (LI".  Sion.) 


TAIR  GORMES  GWYDDYL. 

Tair  Gormes  Gwyddyl  a  fu  yng  Nghymru  a  Gwyr  a  chymmamt 
ag  Un  Teulu  a'u  gwaredawdd  y  Tair,  nid  amgen  Teulu  Cyneddaf 
Wledig.  Cyntaf  y  bu  yng  Ngwyr  ym  Morganwg.  sef  yno  y  daeth 
Ceian  wyddel  ai  feibion  ag  ynnill  y  wlad  ai  goresgyn  dennaw 
mlynedd  a'r  hugain.  a  Chyneddaf  wledig  ag  Urien  fab  Cynfarch 
au  gorfyddawd  .  au  Uadd  hyd  ymhon  y  naw  o  honynt  a  gyrruV 
Ueill  ir  Mor.  yna  rliodded  Teyrnedd  y  wlad  honno  i  Urien  fjJ) 
Cynfarch.  ai  galw  Rheged,  am  ei  rhoddi  gan  wirfodd  Cymry'r 
wlad  honno  yn  Anreg  iddaw,  ag  o  hynny  y  Grelwid  ef  Urien 
Rheged. 

Ail  Aflech  Goronawc  a  ddug  Arth  Mathrin  yn  ormes,  yna  pri- 
odi  Marchell  ferch  Tewdric  Brenin  y  wlad  honno.  ag  o  hynny 
ynnill  bodd  y  Wlad,  ai  chael  yn  gj^foeth  ym  mraint  y  briodas.  ag 
ynoV  gwehelyth  yn  aros  fyth  yn  un  a'r  Cymry. 

Trydydd.  oedd  Don  (a  Daron>vy  medd  eraill)  Brenin  Llychlyn 
a  ddaeth  hyd  yng  Ngwerddon  ag  ynnill  Gwlad  yno,  a  chwedi 
hynny  efe  a  ddug  liyd  yng  Ngwynedd  drigain  mil  oV  Gwyddyl  a^r 
Llychlynwys,  ag  yno  gwarseddu  hyd  ymhen  can  mlynedd  a  naw 
ar  hugain.  yna  daeth  Caswallawn  lawhir  ap  Einion  Yrth.  ap  Cyn- 


80  MAN-GOFION. 


LLYMA  WEDDFR  ORSEDD  O  LYFR  ARALL. 

Dyro  Dduw  dy  Nawdd  ; 

Ag  yn  nawdd,  Nerth ; 

Ag  yn  north,  Deall ; 

Ag  yn  neall,  Gwybod ; 

Ag  yngwybod,  gwybod  y  cyfiawn  ; 

Ag  yngwybod  y  cyfiawn,  ei  gara ; 

Ag  o  gam,  cam  pob  hanfod ; 

Ag  ymhob  Hanfod,  cam  Daw. 

Daw  a  phob  Daioni. 


LLYMA  WEDDFR  ORSEDD  O  LYFR  TREHAEARN  BRYDYDD 

MAWR. 

Dybo  Ddaw  dy  nawdd ; 
Ag  yn  nawdd,  Pwyll ; 
Ag  ymhwyll,  Goleani ; 
Ag  yngoleani,  Gwirionedd ; 
Ag  yngwirionedd,  Oyfiawnder ; 
Ag  ynghyfiawnder,  Gariad ; 
Ag  ynghanad,  Gariad  Duw ; 
Ag  ynghariad  Daw,  pob  Gwynfyd. 

Daw  a  phob  Daioni. 


LLYMA  WEDDFR  ORSEDD,  A  ELWIR  GWEDDFR  GWYDD- 

ONLUD. 

Dyw  dy  nerth,  ag  yn  nerth  Dioddef ; 
A  dioddef  dros  y  GUrir,  ag  yn  y  G^r  pob  Gk)leani ; 
Ag  yngoleuni  pob  Gwynfyd,  ag  yngwynfyd  Gariad, 
Ag  ynghariad  Dyw,  Ag  yn  Nuw  pob  Daioni. 

Ag  felly  terfyna. — O  Lyfr  Mawr  Margam. 

LLYMA  DDAROGAN  PEREDUR  BARDD  PRYDAIN. 

Pan  fo  cwyn  cynllwyn  bro  gwarthefin 
A  galar  a  gwasgar  y  gilbant  werin 


MAN-OOFION.  81 

Gwynfyd  ei  fyd  genau  yn  gyfrwydd  gyfrin 
A  lefair  dri  gair  or  heniaith  gyssefin 

Peredur  Fardd  ai  Cant. 
(modd  ajeuxl) 
LLYMA  BENNELL  CADAIR  GORSEDD  ALBAN  ARTHAN. 

Pan  fo  cwyn  cynllvyn  Bro  Gwrthenin 
Dan  ysgar  gwiail  y  gilbant  wenn, 
Gwyn  fyd  y  geneu  yn  gyfrwydd  gyfrin, 
A  lefair  Tri  gair  oV  heniaith  gysefin. 

Merddin  Emrysl'ai  Cant. 

DON  BRENIN  LLYCHLYN. 

Oed  Oris  CCLXVII.  y  dug  Don  Brenin  Llychlyn  a  Dulyn  a 
ddog  y  Gwyddelod  i  Wynedd  Ue  buant  gant  a  naw  ar  hugain  o 
flynyddau.  a  Ghirydion  ap  Don  a  f a  yn  enwog  dros  benn  am  wy- 
bodau  a  Ghelfyddydaa.  Ac  a  ddysgodd  gware  hud  a  Uedrith  gyntaf 
Yt  Oymry,  ag  efe  a  ddug  wybodaeth  ar  lythyr  iV  Werddon  ag  i 
Lychlyn.  (Twrog,)  a  gwedi  gwladychu  o'r  Gwyddelod  aV  Llych- 
lyniaid  yng  Ngwynedd  Ganmlynedd  a  nawmlynedd  ar  ugeint  y 
daethoeddynt  feibion  Cynedda  Wledig  or  Gogledd  i  Wynedd  ag 
a  drechasant  ar  y  Gwyddyl  a^u  cilyddion  ag  au  gyrrasant  ar  ffo  i 
Ynys  Manaw.  Ag  yng  Ngwaith  Cerrig  y  Gwyddyl  y  bu  Uadd 
amynt,  a  Chaswallon  Lawhir  a  laddes  a'i  gledd  ei  hun  Syrigi 
Wyddel  ab  Mwrchan,  ap  Eurnach  hen  ap  Eilo  ap  Rhechgyr  ap 
Cathbalug,  ap  Cathal,  ap  Machno,  ap  Eiuion,  ap  Celert,  ap  Math, 
ap  Mathonwy  ap  Trathol  ap  Gwydion  ap  Don  Brenin  Mon  ag 
Arfon  aV  Cantref  a  Dulyn  a  llychlyn,  a  ddaeth  i  Ynys  Fon  gan- 
mlynedd a  nawmlynedd  ar  hugain  cyn  dyfod  Crist  ynghnawd 

Eurnach  Hen  a  fu'^n  ymladd  Gledd  yng  Nghledd  ag  Owain  Vin- 
ddn  ap  Macsen  Wledig  yn  Ninas  Ffaraon,  ag  efe  a  laddodd  Owain, 
Owain  a  laddodd  ynteu 

SERIGI. 

Sep  gwedi  myned  o  Wyr  Rhufain  o  Ynys  Prydain  y  Cym- 
merth  Serigi  amaw  unbennaeth  Mon  a  Gwynedd  ar  Cantref.  a 
chymmaint  gormes  y  Gwyddelod  oni  orfu  danfon  cenhadon  at 
Gunedda  wledig  sef  y  danfones  ef  ei  feibion  i  Wynedd  ag  yna 


82  MAN-GOFION. 

gyrru  a  wnaethant  y  Gwyddyl  ar  ddisblaid  eithr  ym  Mon  lie  ydd- 
oeddent  yn  Genedl  A  Serigi  yn  Frenin,  ag  efe  a  ddaeth  A  Uu 
cadam  hyd  yngwyrfai  yn  Arfon  er  ymladd  a  Ghaswallawn,  sef  ai 
gyrred  yn  ol  i  Fon  gan  Gaswallawn,  ag  ai  Uadded  yngherig  y 
Gwyddyl  ym  Mon.  Yna  Gaswallawn  a  gwehelyth  Guuedda  a 
ddodasant  Saint  ym  Mon  i  ddysgu'r  flFydd  yng  Nghrist  a  thiroedd 
Vr  Cymry  a  ddyged  yno  o  Ddyfed  a  Gwyr  a  Gwent.  Yna  myned 
o  Fon  yn  folianus  am  ei  Seiniau  aV  gwyr  doethion  a  dwyfolion 
a  gaid  ynddi 


GWYNEDD» 

GwDioN  Wyddel,  ap  Don,  ap  Dar  ap  Daronwy,  ap  ap  Umach 
Wyddel  o  Ddinas  Ffaraon  a  las  gan  Owain  Vinddu  ap  Maxen 
Wledig,  a'r  Umach  hwnnw  a  ddug  Ugain  Mil  oV  Gwyddelod  i 
Wynedd  oV  Werddon  He  tiriasant  ag  a  fuant  yno  ganmlynedd  a 
naw  ar  hugain 

Mab  Umach  oedd  Syrigi  Wyddel,  ag  ef  a  las  yng  ngheng  y 
Gwyddyl  ym  Mon  gan  Gaswallon  lawhir  ap  Einion  Yrth  ap  Oyn- 
edda  Wledig  yn  Amser  Owain  ap  Maxen  Wledig,  ag  ar  lawr  y 
Difalldrain  y  cad  mab  bychain  o  frawd  i  Syrigi  Wyddel,  nid  amgen 
na  Daronwy  ap  Umach  Wyddel  o  Ddinas  Ffaraon.  a  Phendefig 
Urddasawl  o  fewn  a  dosturies  wrth  y  mab  bychain  rhag  ei  decced 
ai  ymddifatted.  Ag  ai  mages  mal  yn  un  oi  blant  ei  hunan.  Ar  Dar- 
onwy hwnnw  a  fu  wedi  hynny  yn  un  o  dri  gormes  Mon  a  faged 
ynddi,  sefadymluyddu  aV  Gwyddyl  a  wnaeth  ef,  a  dwyny  bende- 
figaeth  o  iar  ai  dylai  o  Gymro  nid  amgen  na     *****     ♦ 


DEWI  SANT. 

Dewi  fab  Sandde,  fab  Cedig,  fab  Oaredig,  fab  Gynedda  wledig, 
efe  a  symedes  ei  Wyndy  o  Gaerllion  ar  wysg  hyd  ym  Mynyw  hen 
yng  Ngheredigion,  agwedy  hynny  y  rhoddes  ei  hendad  Ynyr  o 
Gaer  Gawch  iddaw  ei  holl  dir  Breiniawl  nid  Amgen  na  Phebyd- 
iawc,  ai  Pherthynasai,  yna  Dewi  a  Symudes  ei  Wyndy  ir 
wlad  honno  rhag  cyrch  Saeson  paganiait  ac  a  wnaeth  ysgol  ag 


*  0  hen  Lyfr  Achiii, — medd  lolo  Morgan wg. 


MAN-GOFION.  83 

f^lwys  yno  er  dysgu  Dwyfoldeb  a  Gwybodau  dwyfolion  ir 
Cymry  lie  ddoeddynt  wedi  myned  ar  DranccoU  Achos  hynny  y 
gelwid  y  wlad  honno  Pebydiawc  achaws  Dewi  oedd  Bab  ar  y  wlad 
honno. 


MAEN  CETTI. 

Maen  Oetti  ar  gefii  y  Bryn  yngwyr,  a  addolid  medd  yr  hen 
draddodiad,  gan  y  Paganiaid,  ond  Dewi  ai  hoUtodd  a  chledd  yn 
brawf  iddynt  nad  oedd  ynddo  ddim  Dwyfoldeb,  ag  a  erchis  i  fiynon 
darddu  dan  y  maen  a  hi  a  darddwys.  a  chwedi  hynny  y  rhai  a 
foant  cyn  hynny'^n  anghedinwyr  a  gredasant  ag  a  dderbyniasant  y 
fiydd  ynghrist.  y  mae  Eglwys  gerllaw  a  elwir  Llanddewi  Ue  medd- 
ant  y  bu'*r  Sant  yn  beriglor  cyn  ei  gyssegru  yn  Escob,  ar  Eglwys 
hynnaf  yng  Ngwyr  ydyw  hi,  a  phan  aeth  efe'n  escob  yng  Nghaer- 
Uion  or  wysg,  efe  a  osodes  wr  a  elwid  Cenydd  ab  Aneurin  ab  y 
(Jaw  yn  ei  le  ef  yn  Llanddewi  ar  Cenydd  hwnnw  a  wnaeth  Eglwys 
a  elwid  Llangennydd,  a  brawd  iddaw  a  elwid  Madoc  a  wnaeth 
Eglwys  Lbui  Madoc. 

DWYNWEN. 

CrwYDD  Î  Ddwynwen  Santes  i  geisio  ganthi  wneuthur  llatteu- 
aeth  rhyngtho  a  Morfydd — Dafydd  ab  Gwilym  ai  cant 
Mae>  Cywydd  hwn  yn  dechreu  fel  y  canlyn, 

"  Dwynwen  deigr  danian*  degwch 
Deg  ŵyr  o  gor  fflamgwyr  fflwch'*' 
Dy  ddelw  aur,  dy  ddoluriaw 
Digion  dniain  ddynion  draw 
Dyn  a  wilio  gloywdro  glan 
Yn  dy  gor  Indeg  eirian 
Nid  068  glefyd  na  bryd  brwyn 
A  el  ynddo  o  Landdwyn,  &c. 

Y  mae  y  Prydyddion  cyrareig  yn  galw  Dwynwen  yn  Dduwien 
neu  Santes  Cariad  a  Serchogrwydd  fal  y  galwai  y  Pöetau  Venus 
Nota  in  M.S.  D  Jones  Vicar  Llanvair  Dyffryn  Clwvd 

1587.— (L.  M.) 

*  Arien  MS  D  Jones  a  L.  M. 


84  MAN-GOFIÜN. 

Yr  oedd  yn  amser  D.  ab  Gwilym  Ddelw  euraid  i  Ddwynwen 
yn  eglwys  Llanddwyn,  ym  Môn,  lie  y  gwerthaiV  Monachod 
rinweddau'r  Santes — (L.  M.) 

Maelir  DafodriU  a  garodd  Dwynwen,  ferch  Brychan  Sant,  a  hi 
a^i  carodd  yntef.  Ag  ef  aM  ceisiodd  yn  amhriod  ag  nis  cai,  am  hyn- 
ny  Maelon  a  gadawodd  drwy  gased  ag  ai  gwarthaoedd,  a  hynny  a 
fu  yn  achos  dirboen  gofid  a  gsA&r  iddi.  Ac  un  noswaith  mewn  coed 
hi  a  weddiodd  ar  Dduw  am  wellhàd  o*ì  chariad,  a  Daw  a  ymddang- 
OSes  iddi  yn  ei  chwsg,  a  a  roddes  iddi  ddiod  peraidd,  yr  hwn  aH 
gwellhaodd,  a  hynny  yn  gwbl  iach ;  ag  a  welai  roddiV  un  ddiod  i 
i  Faelon  yr  hyn  a'i  rhewodd  yn  iâ. 

A  Duw  a  roddes  ei  harch  ar  dri  pheth  iddi,  a  hi  a  archodd  yn 
gyntaf  dattrew  ar  Faelon,  ac  yn  ail  gael  gwrandewyd  ar  ei  gwedd- 
iau  dros  fyth  ymhlaid  serchogion  cywirgalon,  fal  y  byddai  iddynt 
y  naill  a^i  cael  ei  cariadon,  al  cael  gwellhâd  o'^u  cariadgur ;  ag  yn 
drydydd  nas  byddai  raid  iddi  wrth  wr  byth :  a  hi  a  gafodd  y  tair 
arch.  Ag  am  hynny  hi  a  gymmerth  amhiV  Leianaeth,  ag  a  aeth 
yn  Santes  ;  a  phob  cywirgalon  ar  a  weddiai  ami  a  gai  y  naill  ai 
ymwared  oi  serch  ai  meddiannuV  Cariaddyn — (Llyfr  Huw  Haws, 
Fardd  o  Fon.) 

Dwynwen  oedd  un  o  Ferched  Brychan  Brycheiniog  Tywysog  o 
Wyddyl  yr  hwn  a  gafas  Frenhiniaeth  y  wlad  a  elwir  yn  awr  ar  ei 
enw  ef  Brycheiniog;  ai  welygordd  oeddynt  oU  yn  Seintiau  a 
Santesi — (L.  M.  yn  Llyfr  Huw  Huws) 

Chwi  a  welwch  wrth  ysmalhawch  y  Bardd  mai  y  ychydig 
flfydd  oedd  ganddo  ef  yn  rhinweddau  y  Santes — L.  M.* 


BRYNACH  WYDDEL. 

Brynach  Wyddyl  oedd  frenin  Gwynedd  nid  amgen  na  Manaw 
a  Mon  ag  Arfon,  ag  efe  oedd  y  cyntaf  0  frenhinoedd  y  gwledydd 

*  Myfi,  Taliesin  ab  lolo,  a  ysgrifennais  y  dam  rhagflaenedig  o'r  Cywydd, 
ynghyd  a'r  sylwadau  amo,  i  maes  o  ysgrif  yn  Haw  fy  Nhad, — lolo  Maiganwg ; 
a  honno,  mae'n  debyg,  yn  dynnedig  gantho  yntau  o  Lyfr  Huw  Uuws,  (yn 
llaw  Lewys  Morris.)  Mae  nodau  cwrr  dalen  a  darlleniadaa  gwahanol,  gaon 
Lewis  Morris,  yn  ami,  gyda'r  Cy  wydd. 


MAN-QOFION.  85 

hjnny  a  gafas  y  fiydd  yng  Nghrist  a  chred  a  Bedydd  i  ar  law 
lUiidian  Sant  o  dir  Gwyr  a  Reged.  ag  efe  a  wnaeth  Eglwysydd 
gyntaf  yng  Ngwynedd.  ag  a  fynnes  ddodi  Cred  a  Bedydd  ar  Gym- 
ry  a  Grwyddelod  y  Gwledydd  a  bieuffai  ef.  sef  yn  Amser  yr  Ym- 
herawdr  Maxen  Wledig  ryttoedd.  ac  ymladd  a  bu  ryngtho  ef  ag 
Owain  Vinddu  ap  Maxen  Wledig  am  Bendefigaeth  Gwynedd  nid 
amgen  na  Maw  a  Manaw  a  Mon  ag  Arfon,  AV  Cantref,  ar  naill  a 
laddes  y  Llall,  ag  yn  Ninas  Ffaraon  y  bu  hynny,  a'r  gwaed  ar  y 
main  hyd  yr  awr  honn. 


Y  FUWCH  LAETHWEN  LEFRITH. 

Y  FuwcH  Laethwen  Lefrith,  o  roddai  Laeth  eu  gwala  i  bob  un 
ai  ceisiai  ag  er  y  godreVd  ami  ni  chaid  diffyg  un  amser,  ac  er  maint 
y  nifer  ai  godrai,  a  gwr  a  yfai  oi  Llaeth  a  elai'^n  iach  o  bob  dolur. 
ag  yn  ddoeth  Ue  buasai  annoeth,  ag  o  ddiriaid  e  elai^n  ddedwydd 
ac  o  amgylch  y  byd  y  eerddai  a  bynnag  o  le  ydd  elai  hi  a  lenwai 
ai  llaeth  y  maint  Llestri  a  gaid,  ag  a  gadewai  Loi  ar  ei  hôl  i  bod 
doeth  a  dedwydd,  ac  o  heni  y  cafwyd  gwartheg  blithion  i'r  hoU 
fyd,  gwedi  treiglaw  hoU  Ynys  Prydain  er  Bendith  a  daioni  ir 
wlad  ar  genedl,  hi  a  ddaeth  hyd  yn  Ystrad  Tywi,  a  chan  decced  a 
gwyched  ei  gwedd  e  fynnai  wyr  y  wlad  ei  Uadd  ai  bwytta  a  phan 
oeddent  ar  ergyd  ei  lladd,  hi  a  ddiflanes  o  rwng  ei  dwylaw  a  mwy- 
ach  nis  g\*'elwyd  fyth.  a  thy  fyth  sydd  yn  y  lie  a  elwir  y  Fuwch 
Laethwen  Lefrith. 


HUD  A  LLEDRITH. 

Cerdd  Hud  a  Lledrith  a  fydd  honno  lie  bo  ymrysonau  a  Chyf- 
ariaith  nifer  o  ddyniadon  ynddi  dan  ledrithoedd  amgen  o  fraint  a 
^rradd  a  chyflwr  nag  y  byddantr  herwydd  gwirionedd,  a  phob  un  yn 
ei  radd  ai  gyflwr  Lledrith  yn  ymryson  ag  arall  ynghwrth  neu  ym 
mhlaid  yr  hynn  a  ddodir  yn  gyff  ymryson  rhyddynt,  er  dangos  a 
fo  cyfiawn  ag  anghyfiawn,  a  diddan  ag  anniddan  ar  a  fo  ryddynt, 
parth  digwydd  a  gwrthddig^vydd.  a  rhyw  a  gwrthryw,  a  rhaid  a 
gwrthraid  er  diweddu  fal  y  y  dylyddai  er  anrhydedd  a  gobr  i  bob 
iawn  a  gwaradwydd  a  cholled  a  chosp  i  bob  amgen  na  lawn,  ag  af- 
Iwydd  i  bob  drwg  o  gamp  a  gweithred  a  Chynneddf,  a  Llwydd  i 
bob  daionufl  amynt.  Ag  arddull  hawl  ag  atteb  y  trefnir  y  gerdd 


86  MAN-GOFION. 

gwrtli  a  plilaid,  plaid  a  phlaid,  a  gwrth  ag  jngwrth  Modd  jbo  ar 
Lun  a  chjrfrith  gwir  parth  y  bod  a'r  digwydd  yn  y  cant  enhudo 
awelont  o  ddechreu  hyd  ddiwedd  yn  y  bont  yn  credu  mai  Ghnr  y 
cwbl  o'r  arddangos  dan  ledrith.  ag  am  hynny  Gerdd  Hud  a  Lled- 
rith  a  gware  Hud  a  Lledrith  ag  ymryson  Hud  a  lledrith  al  gelwid 
yn  yr  hen  amser  a  Thwmpath  Hud  a  Lledrith  y  Ue  ar  gwyr  ai 
dangoso  ai  gelwir  yn  awr.  a  gware  miragl. — (O  ^^Bywiaa 
Gerdd  Dafawd  herwydd  yi  Ceinmyger  o  Lyfr  leuan  fawr  ap  y 
DiwUth;') 


PRIF  GYFOETHAU  GWLAD  GYMRY. 

1.  GwENT  0  Afon  Wysg  hyd  Bont  Caerloyw, 

2.  Morganwg  o  Afon  Wysg  i  Ystrad  Tawy, 

3.  Rheged  o  Ystrad  Tawe  i  Ystrad  Tywi, 

4.  Dyfed  o  Ystrad  Tywi  hyd  yng  Nglyn  Teifi, 

5.  Ceredigion  o  Ystrad  Teifi  hyd  y  Mor  ag  Amddyfi  a'r  Can- 
tref  Orddwyf. 

6.  Gwynedd,  oV  Gantref  Orddwyf  hyd  Fenai  ag  am  Aerfen  a 
Theymllwg. 

7.  Teymllwg  o  Aerfen  hyd  Argoed  Dernwenyydd. 

8.  Deifr  a  Bryneich,  0  Argoed  Derwenydd  hyd  Afon  Drenn. 

9.  Argoed  Galchfynydd  rhwng  Trenn  ag  Afon  Dain  nid  amgen 
nag  Afon  Lundain, 

10.  Fferyllwg,  rhwng  Gwy  a  Hafren. 

11.  Powys  am  Aerfen  a  Gorthir  Teymllwg,  a  Therfnau  Ffe- 
ryllwg, Ar  Gantref  Orddwyf. 

12.  Brycheiniog  o  Flaenau  Gwy  hyd  am  Wysg  a  Therfnau 
Fferyllwg. 

13  Gaint  am  afon  Dain  ar  Mor  Tawch  hyd  Terfynau  Arllech- 
wedd  galedin. 

14.  Arllechwedd  Galedin  o  hynny  hyd  Derfynau  Dyfnaint  ag 
am  Derfynau  Gwlad  yr  Haf  ag  Argoed  Galchfynydd, 

15.  Dyfnaint  a  Gherniw  o  Arllechwedd  Galedin  hyd  y  moroedd 
cyfrwng,  a  Mor  Udd. 

1 6.  Gwlad  yr  Haf  o  Afon  Goreifion  am  y  Terfyn  a  Ghyfoeth 
Galchfydd  ac  am  Afon  a  Fferyllwg  a  Gwent  hyd  For  Essyllwg  a 
elwir  mor  Hafren  hyd  am  y  Terfyn  a  Dyfnaint  a  Ghemyw. 

17.  *  *  *  *  ♦  [colled  dalen  yma. — Llyfr  Mr.  Cobb,  o 
Gaer  Dŷf.] 


MAN-GOFION.  87 

FOÍTHEG  LLWYTH  GWYNEDD* 

Yn  amser  Hywel  Dda  Brenin  Cymry  oU  y  Breiniwyd  pymtheg 
Llwyth  o  Briflwythi  Ynys  Prydain  ym  mraint  Cenedl  y  Cymry. 
aef  y  mynnws  Hywel  Dda  ap  Gadell  ap  Rodri  Mawr  ag  efe  yn 
Frenin  Cymry  oil,  adnewyddu  a  Qwellhau  hen  Gyfreithiau  Cenhedl 
y  Cymry  y  rhai  a  fiiant  er  amser  Dyfnwal  moelmud  ap  Dyfnfarth 
ap  Prydahi  ap  Aedd  Mawr  a  galw  ar  Bencenhedloedd  Cenedl  y 
Cymry  attaw  Tr  Ty  Qwyn  ar  Daf  yn  Nyfed.  ac  achos  Uygru 
llwythau  Qwynedd  a  Mon  a  Lledach  oV  gwyddelod  a  gwyr  Llych- 
lyn  ni  chaid  yno  amgen  na  phymtheg  Penteulu  o  brif  Iwythau 
Cenedl  y  Cymry,  yn  ddiledach  diledryw,  y  peris  Hywel  eu  Breinio 
a'u  Llwythau  o  Baladr  yn  Bymtheg  Llwyth  o  Bendefigaeth  Cyn- 
nwydion,  a  Braint  He  a  Uafar  iddynt  ym  mhob  Gt)rsedd  Dygyn- 
nuU,  a  phob  Llys  Gwlad  ac  Arglwydd  yn  Ynys  Prydain  ac  yn  yr 
an  amser  y  Breiniwyd  ar  Bywys  pedair  Gwelygordd  ar  hugain  o 
Brif  welygorddau  diledach.  a  braint  lie  a  Uafar  iddynt  ym  mhob 
Llys  Grwlad  ag  Arglwydd  ac  ym  mhob  gorsedd  Dygynnull  yn 
Ynys  Prydain,  ac  a  ddodes  Ddeddf  amyn  gadw  a  Chynnal  Rhol 
achaa  yn  ddosparthus  modd  y  gwneid  yn  Neheubarth  a  Morganwg 
a  Owent  mal  y  gwypid  Teilyngdod  a  Bonedd  Pencenhedloedd  ac 
o  hynny  Braint  iddynt  a  fai  dyledus.  ac  fal  hyn  y  dechreuwyd 
Cof  gwarantedig  ar  achau  ag  Arfau  Bonedd  yng  Ngwynedd  a 
Phywys,  a  Hywel  Dda  n  ei  ddoethineb  yn  trefnu  Llyfr  a  elwid 
Bonedd  Gwyr  y  Gogledd  nid  amgen  na  Bonedd  Llwythi  Gwynedd 
a  Mon.  a  Gwelygorddau  Pywys. 

BLEGYWRYD.f 

"A  awEDi  trefnu  Cyfraith  a  weddai  ar  Wlad  a  Chenedl  y 
Cymry  herwydd  a  ellit  gan  farn  Athrawon  a  doethion  herwydd 
gofynion  y  ffydd  yng  Nghrist  a  Dosparthau  Gwlad  a  Chenedl 
addwyn  efe  a  ddodes  ar  Flegywryd  ap  Morgan  Mebydd  Llandaf 
eu  rhoi  ar  ddu  a  gwyn  mewn  llyfrau  a  Bholau  dosparthus  a  chyda 
hynny  ar  goelfain,  au  dodi  yn  Arwisg  hyd  Wynebau  parwydydd 
ei  Lys  a  Neuadd  yr  Ynad  mal  y  gallai  ac  y  caffaint  a  chwennych- 
aint  eu  gweled  au  darllain  au  rhoi  ar  grawenau  Mal  au  gwypid 
gan  bawb  o  G^nedl  y  Cymry  herwydd  yr  achos  a'r  gofyn. 

*  0  Lyfir  Antoni  Powel,  o  Lwydarth,  Tir  larll. 
f  O  Ddernynau  Evan  Evan»,  Llyfr  Plas  Gwyn  ym  Mon. 


88  MAN-GOFION. 


lEUAN  FAWR  AP  Y  DIWLITH* 

"BEraoD  Tir  larll  yn  cyrchu  Twmpath  Diwlîth  ar  Fynydd 
Margam  un  bore  dydd  Gwyl  leuan  yr  haf  er  cynnal  Gadair  wrth 
Gerdd  Dafod,  a  gawsant  faban  newydd  geni  yn  fadfyw  ar  y  Twm- 
path, Bhys  ap  Bhiccart  ap  Einion  ap  GoUwyn  ai  cymmerodd,  ag 
adref  ag  ef,  ai  roi  dan  ofal  mammaeth ;  bu  fyw'*r  plentyn,  rhodd- 
wyd  ysgol  a  chrefft  ysgolaeih  iddo.  efe  a  gymmerodd  ei  ddysg  mor 
awyddfawr  ag  y  cymmerai  blentyn  Laeth  bron  ei  Fam ;  ag  yn 
ebrwydd  yn  ei  oedran  gwelwyd  ef  yn  blaenu  ar  holl  athrawon 
Cymry.  llyfr  a  wnaeth  ef  un  oedd  Llyfr  Cadwedigaeth  y  Gymraeg 
a  Cherdd  Dafod  ag  a  berthynai  iddynt  parth  braint  a  defod  gwlad 
a  Chenedl  a  Barn  Doethion  efe  a  wnaeth  y  grealau  aV  Mabynogi 
a  Llyfr  y  naw  gloes  ar  pedwar  addum  ar  hugain,  a  Llyfr  Dam- 
megion,  a  Uawer  Llyfr  arall;  gwnaeth  hefyd  gof  a  chadw  ar 
wybodau  Doethineb  ac  ar  gyfreithiau  Cenedl  y  Cymry.  rhodded 
enw  leuan  ap  y  Diwlith  amo  am  ei  gael  fal  a  wedwyd  o^r  blaen  ar 
Dwmpath  Diwlith  Bore  Gwyl  leuan  yr  haf  ac  am  mai  gwr  Mawr 
ydoedd,  Gelwid  ef  leuan  fawr  ap  y  diwlith.  Byw  a  marw  yn  Llan- 
gynwyd  He  ai  claddwyd  ef  ym  mhlith  Teulu  Llwydarth.  aeth  y 
gaer  mai  mab  ym  mhob  tebygolaeth  oedd  ef  i  Rys  ap  Bhiccart 
ap  Einion  o  Bendefiges  uchel  ei  gwaed.  a  phan  honnid  hynny  lie 
byddai  ni  wnai  ef  amgen  na  thewi  a  gadael  i  hynny  fod.**'  (Llyfr 
Cofion  leuan  Bradford  o  Lyfr  Antoni  Pywel  o  Lwydarth  yn  y 
Goetre  Hen.) 


TRIOEDD  YR  ADDURNAU. 

1.  Tri   enw  Addurn   Awen,   Goleuni'r   Deall,   diddanwch  y 
Pwyll,  Ag  athraw  gwybodau. 

2.  Tri  enw  Addum  Pwyll,  Canwyll  yr  Enaid,  Cademid  Doeth- 
ineb, a  gloywder  gwybodaeth. 

3.  Tri  enw  Addurn  Doethineb,  Harddwch  y  nefoedd,  Cademyd 
diddanwch,  a  Gair  Duw. 

4.  Tri  enw  Addum  Deall;  Llygad  awen,   Clust  y  Pwyll,  a 
LlawddeauV  myfyrdawd. 


*  Yr  oedd  Icuan  ap  y  Diwlith  yn  hyw  jiighylch  y  fli^'A'dd^Ti  llíÄ)  nen  o 
hynny  i  1180. — Tola  Morgan  vg. 


MAN-OOFION.  89 

5.  Tri  enw  addyrn  Gwybodaeth,  Cadernyd  y  Byd,  Llawenydd 
Doetbion,  a  Rhad  Duw. 

6.  Tri  enw  addurn  Duw ;  Brenin  y  Nefoedd  (enaid  y  bydoedd,) 
Tad  Bywydoldeb,  ag  Anfeidroldeb  Gariad 

7.  Tri  enw  addurn  y  Nef ;  By wyd,  Gwynf,  a  Thangnef. 

8.  Tri  enw  addurn  yr  Haul ;  Canwyll  y  Bydoedd,  Llygad  y 
Dydd  a  hoywder  y  nefoedd. 

9.  Tri  enw  addurn  y  Lleuad ;  Huan  Nos,  y  Gannaid,  Haul  y 
Tylwyth  Teg. 

10.  Tri  enw  addurn  y  Ser ;    Llygaid  hinion,  CanwyllauV  Nef 
(Duw)  a  GemmauV  wybren. 

11.  Tri  enw  addurn  y  Môr ;  Maes  Gwenhidwy,  Llys  Neifion, 
a  Ffynon-Wenestr.  (a  Glwyth  Byd.) 

12.  Tri  enw  addurn  y  Tonnau;  Defaid  Gwenhidwy,  Dreigiau'r 
Heli,  a  BlodauV  Eigion. 

13.  Tri  enw  addurn  y  Hâf ;  Marchog  Serch,  Tad  y  Nwyf, 
Ceidwad  yr  Ynial. 

14.  Tri  enw  addurn  y  Gwynt;  Drud  Byd,  Saer  y  dryccin,  a 
Hyrddiwr  y  Bryniau. 

15.  Tri  enw  addurn  y  blodau;  Gemmau  Gwydd,  Ceinion  Haf, 
a  Llygad  y  Tea. 

16.  Tri  enw  addurn  y  llysiau ;    Mantell  Haf,  Wyneb  hardd- 
wch,  a  neuaddlawr  serch. 

17.  Tri    enw  addurn  y  Tea;  wyneb  (Gwên)  llawenydd,  Elfr 
Nef,  a  Gwen  (wyneb)  Serch. 

18.  Tri  enw  addurn  Awen,  bywyd  gwybodau,  enaid  pwyll,  a 
Dawn  Duw. 

19.  Tri  enw  addurn  Cydwybod;  goleuniV  nef,  Llygad  gwirion- 
edd,  a  Llafar  Duw. 

20.  Tri  enw  addurn  gwybodîîth;  Llwybr  (llwybrau)  Gwirionedd, 
Llaw  (dwylaw)  V  pwyll  a  chademid  awen. 

21.  [Ond  y  mae  y  rhelyw  yn  eisiau. — Ab  Iolo.] 


LLYWELYN  BREN. 

Llywelyn  Bren  Hen,  a  elwir  Llywelyn  Hagr,  a  dorres  lawer  o 
Gestyll  y  Pendefigion,  nid  aragen  Castell  St  lorys.  Castell  Aber- 
iilli,  Castell  Tregogan,  Castell  Ffwg  ab  Gwarin,  Castell  Aber- 
barri,  Castell  Llandathan,  Castell  Maes  Essyllt,  Castell  Cynffig, 
Castell  Rhuthyn,  Castell  y  Gelli  Gam,  ag  un  Trcfflomin.  Ac  efe 


90  MAN-60FI0N. 

a  laddwys  gymmaint  o'r  Saeson  aV  Ffranod  hyd  nis  gellid  cael  ar 
Sais  gymmaint  a  chyilwrdd  meddwl  aros  ym  Morganwg.  Ag  yn 
yr  amseroedd  ydd  oedd  ym  mhob  Tref  a  Phentref  Unswd  o 
Swyddwyr  a  elwid  Meiri  Gwared,  a  Llywelyn  Hagr  a  fynnws 
weled  eu  crogi  bob  un  o  henynt  a  gorfu  ar  y  Pendefigion  roi  heî- 
bioV  Swydd,  am  nas  caid  un  fwy  nag  arall  ai  gwasanaethai  nag  er 
arian  nag  er  gwerth. — (Llyfr  Sion  Philip  o  Dreos.) 


GWAETHFOED. 

GlwAiTHPOED  Arglwydd  Gibion  a  Gheredigion  oedd  yn  byw  yn 
amser  Edgar  frenin,  AV  Edgar  hwnnw  a  ddanfones  at  Dywysog- 
ion  Cymry  ag  arch  iddynt  ymweled  ag  ef  yng  Nygharlleon  Gawr 
a  rhwyfo  ei  ysgraflf  ef  ar  afon  Dyfrdwy,  a  Gwaithfoed  a  ddanfones 
atteb  i  Edgar,  a  dywedyd  na  fedrai  ef  rhwyfo  ysgraff  a  phei  medni 
nis  gwnelai  ond  er  gwared  ai  brenin  ai  gwrengyn  y  byddai  rhag 
angau ;  Edgar  a  ddanfones  eilwaith  atto,  a  chyda  hynny  gor- 
chymyn  traws,  ag  ni  roddai  atteb  enyd  ir  Gennad,  a  hwnnw  yn 
ymhywedd  am  atteb.  ac  am  a  ddywedai  wrth  y  brenin.  dywed  fal 
hynn  wrtho,  ebei  Gwaithfoed. 

Ofner  na  ofno  Angau. 

ac  yna  daeth  Edgar  atto  ef.  a  rhoi  Haw  yn  Garedig  iddo.  ac  ynhy- 
wedd  amo  bod  yn  gar  a  chyfaill  iddo,  a  hynny  a  f a,  ac  o  hynny 
maes  Gair  Gymhwyll  a  ddeleint  o  Waithfoed  a  fu  Ofner  na  otno 
Angau,  ac  arfau  Gwaithfoed  oedd  Tri  phen  Blaidd  gwaed-ddifer 
am  gwpl  aur  mewn  Maes  Gwyrdd,  hyd  amser  y  Brenin  Harri  yr 
wythfod  pan  y  rhodded  i  wehelyth  Gwaifoed  Pais  Ar&u  Tywys- 
ogion  Powys  a  hannoeddeint  o  Waithfoed.  a  rhai  o\  wehelyth  yn 
cadẅ  at  yr  hen  Bais  arfau  fal  ac  y  bu  gynt,  ar  gair  Cynmhwyll 
yn  air  Cymmhell  ar  y  Darian. — (Llyfr  Coch  Pant  Lliwydd.) 


BONEDD  AC  ANFONEDD . 

tri  lie  y  kad  bonedd  ac  anfonedd  heb  na  mam  na  thad  yddynt  o 
achos  pob  rj^w  fonedd  y  sydd  yn  dyfod  o  ddyw  or  nef  ac  yny  nef 
y  drocheywyd  bonedd  ac  anfonedd  a  rydd  achaeth,,  ac  am  hyny 
or  nef  y  dechrywni  kans  ef  a  wnaeth  dyw  ddec  gradd  o  engylion 
or  un  defnydd  bonheddic,,  ar  ddegfed  radd  a  syrthioedd  o  blegid 


POO. 


a   «» 


f( 


P.  288 


MAN-GOFION.  91 

balchedd  yr  hwn  ysdd  benaf  o  naw  arwyddiayogrwydd  ac  y  rwym- 
wyd  hwynt  yn  gaeth  or  kaethiwed  a  bery  byth  yn  dragywyddawl,, 
yr  ail  lie  y  kad  bonedd  ac  anfonedd  yn  amser  addaf,,  o  aehos  y 
ddyw  gray  addaf  heb  na  mam  nathad  yddo  megis  pren  ar  y  ddayar 
ac  yr  pren  y  bydd  dail  a  risg  a  ridding  ac  felly  o  addaf  ac  efa  y 
by  dri  brodyr  yn  fam  yn  dad  or  rwn  y  bu  dday  fonheddic  ar 
trydydd  yn  dayoc  kaeth  kans  kaen  a  fu  dayoc  kaeth  am  ladd  abel 
y  frawd  0  afrwogrwydd  kalon  a  balchder  a  digofaint 

y  trydydd  lie  y  kad  bonedd  ac  anfonedd  o  drimeib  noe  yn  fam  yn 
yn  dad  kans  yn  o  naddynt  a  fy  arglwydd  ar  ail  a  fy  wr  bonheddic 
ar  trydydd  a  fu  dayoc  kaeth,, 

a  siafieth  ab  noe  a  wnaeth  targed  gyntaf  er  ioed  a  llyn  yndi  yn 
arwy dd  y  fod  ef  ay  frodyr  yn  meddy  ar  y  byd  —  oil  ac  wedy  hyny 
ddwyfil  0  flynyddoedd  a  daynaw  kyn  karoni  krist  ar  yr  ymladd 
mawr  a  fy  rwng  groec  a  throya  y  gwnaethbwyd  kotarmer  gyntaf 
er  ioed  a  chyfraith  arfay  a  bono  a  fy  y  gyfraith  gyntaf  a  wnayth- 
bwyd  er  ioed  eithr  priodos  kans  dy w  y  hun  awnaeth  priodas  gyntaf 
kyfraith  arfay  a  wreiddiwyd  wrth  naw  radd  yr  engylion  or  nef  y 
rai  a  goroned  a  naw  amrafel  fain  gwyrthfawr  a  naw  amrafael  liwiay 
a  naw  amrafael  rinwedday  arnynt,,  sef  y  maen  cyntaf  a  elwir  to- 
pasiwn  a  hwnw  y  sy  faen  semi  ac  ayr  y  gelwir  ef  mewn  arfay,,  a 
rinwedd  y  maen  hwn  yw  gwr  bonheddic  ay  dyko  ef  ar  fatel  ken- 
hadwr  cywir  a  fydd  y  frenin  yr  hwn  ryw  faen  a  oedd  ynghoron  yr 
angel  pan  yrwyd  lysyffer  or  nef. 

Yr  ail  maen  a  elwir  ys  maragans  pwy  bynnac  a  ddyko  hwnw  mewn 
ryfel  yr  hwn  y  sydd  yn  arwyddokay  myr  mewn  arfay  a  rinwedd  y 
maen  hwnw  y  gwr  ay  dyko  ef  mewn  arfay  kryf  a  chadarn  ymatel 
y  frenin  a  fydd  ef  a  rinwedd  y  maen  yr  hwn  a  fy  ynghoron  yr 
angel * 


ACH  DAFYDD  DDU  GYNLLWYNWR. 

Da  FYDD  Ddu  Gynllwynwr,  ab  Rhys,  ab  Owain,  ab  Elaethwy,  ab 
Idnerth  ab  Riccart  ap  Caradoc  ap  Einion  ap  Cadifor  ap  Collwyn. 

•  O  Lyfr  Du  Pantlliwydd.    [Mae'r  adroddlad  ymma  yn  darfod  yn  anghyf- 
lawn  yn  y  Llyfr  Du. — Ab  Iolo.] 

N 


92  MAN-GOFION. 

Daf.  Ddu  Gynllwynwr  a  lladdodd  dri  dyn  ar  ddeg  a  gyrchasant 
arno  yng  Nghastell  Aberafan,  ag  efe  tufewn  i  ddrws  y  neaadd  a 
laddai  bob  un  fal  j  delai  ef  i'r  drws  oni  laddodd  ef  unardd^,  a 
ddilyn  dau  eraill  ar  eu  eu  ffo  efe  a  goddiweddodd  Agau  lladdodd, 
ag  am  hynnj  y  doded  arno  enw  Dafydd  dda  gyollwyn.  a  Dafydd 
Gynllwynwr. — (Llyfr  Watkin  Sils.) 


DAFYDD  AP  GWILYM. 

AcH  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym. — Dafydd  ap  Gwilym  Gkun,  ap  Dafydd, 
ap  leuan,  ap  Hywel,  ap  Cynwrig,  ap  Gronwy,  ap  Meredydd,  ap 
Madog,  ap  lorwerth,  ap  Llywarch  ap  Bran.  Un  o  bymtheg  Llwyth 
Gwynedd. — (0  dynn-ysgiif  lolo  Morganwg.) 

Mil  trichant  meddant  i  mi  y  ganed 
Yn  geneu  dan  Iwyni 
Gwr  oth  hân  garw  ywHh  enwi, 
Mab  Gwilym  Gam  cytgam  ci. 
Rhys   Meigen  ai  cant  yn  Neuadd  leuan  ab  Lleision  ym 
Maglan. — Yn   Eisteddfod   Llanfihangel  Afan  medd 
Llyfr  arall. — lolo  Morganwg. 


HANES  DAFYDD  AP  GWILYM* 

Gwilym  Gam  o  Lanbadam  fawr,  yng  Ngheredigion,  ap  Davydd, 
ap  leuan,  ap  Hywel,  ag  Ardudfyl  ferch  Gwilym  fychan  oV  Cryn- 
gae  yn  Emlyn,  Tad  a  Mam  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym  y  Prydyddion  oedd- 
ynt ;  ag  achos  rhyw  hôn  wrthymmod  cas  ydoedd  rwng  y  ddwy 
wehelyth ;  ag  ni  chaid  bodd  Priodas  rwng  Gwilym  gam  ag  Ar- 
dudful  gan  un  oV  ddau  du  rhieni,  ar  ddeuddyn  Ifanc  yn  fawr  ei 
Serch  y  naill  at  y  Hall  Beichiogi  Ardudful  a  wnaeth  Gwilym  gam 
ag  0  weled  hynny  ei  thad  ai  brawd  ai  trees  o''u  Ty  ganol  nos  gaeaf 
chwerw,  a  danfon  arch  at  bawb  ou  ceraint  nas  derbynient  hi  dan 
do  neb  un  o  henynt,  myned  a  wnaeth  hi  Iwrw  ei  phen  heb  yn 
waeth  Lie  nag  arall,  a  Gwilym  gam  a  glybu,  a  myned  ar  ei  hol  ai 
gorddiweddyd  ai  chymmeryd  gydag  ef  i  Forganwg  at  Ifor  Hael  ei 
Ewythr  brawd  mam  iddo,  ag  eraill  a  wedant  taw  ei  gyd  firawd 

*  0  Lyfr  Efan  William,  o'r  Fferm,  yn  Llanfleiddan  y  Bont  Faen, 


MAN-GOFION.  93 

ynghyfraith  oedd  Ifor  Hael,  ag  ar  y  fibrdd  dyfnder  nos  dan  berth 
mewn  Tywydd  garw  iawn  gan  wynt  a  Chesair  y  ganed  mab  iddynt 
yn  ei  Seithmis  a  hwnnw  oedd  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym,  ym  mlaen  ydd 
aethant,  a  thranoeth  cyrhaedd  Llandaf,  lie  pnodws  Wilym  Gam 
Ardudful,  ag  ynaV  undydd  y  bu  hi  farw  ag  ai  claddwyd  yno,  a 
bedyddioV  mab  ar  arch  ei  fam,  a  llyma  ddau  Englyn  a  Grant  Wi- 
lym i  Ardudful  uch  ben  ei  bedd. 

C!of 'Ardudful  deg  caf  adfer  wawr  fwyn 
At  fynyddd  olifer 
Angyles  yng  ngoleuder 
Uchel  y  Saint  uwchlaw  sêr. 

Dygn  immiV  byd  a  bod  hebddi  meinir, 
A^m  enaid  yn  edwi ; 
Aele  alaeth  am  dani, 
Wylaf  ael  rhych  ai  rhoed  hi. 

Gwedi  gweled  pndd  ar  wyneb  Ardudful,  myned  ym  mlaen  a 
Dafydd  ei  fab  bychain  at  Ifor  Hael  o  Wem  y  Cleppa  ym  Maes- 
haleg,  He  bu'n  fawr  ei  roesaw  ai  rysgwydd  lawer  Blwyddyn  a  phan 
fu  farw  Dafydd  ap  leuan  ei  dad,  dyfod  yn  ol  i  Geredigion  a  oruc 
Gwilym  Gram  ag  iddei  Dre  Tad  yn  Llanbadarn  ag  EnwV  Ty  Bro 
Ginin  ag  yno  byw  ar  ei  Dir  ei  hunan  ai  fab  Dafydd  gydag  ef. 
Gwilym  a  briodes  ail  Wraig,  a  Dafydd  ei  fab  ni  allai  aros  ei  Lys- 
fam,  am  hynny  myned  yn  ol  at  Ifor  hael  ei  Ewyrth  i  Forganwg, 
lie  bu  mewn  parch  a  chariad  mawr ;  ai  Ewythr  brawd  ei  Fam 
Llywelyn  ab  Gwilym  Fychan  oV  Cryngae  yn  EmljTi  a'r  Ddol 
Goch  yno,  yn  gweled  Awen  Gyferddawn  ynddo  ai  cymmerwys 
atto  ir  Cryngae  ar  Ddol  goch,  lleoedd  y  byddai  un  neu  arall  o 
honynt  yn  byw  a  dysgu  Celfyddyd  mydr  a  cherdd  dafod  iddo,  ag 
o  hynny  ydd  aeth  Dafydd  yn  Brydydd  mawr  iawn  ei  glod,  a 
gwilliaid  o  Saeson  Penfro  a  ddaethant  am  ben  y  ddol  goch  a  Iladd 
Llywelyn  ap  Gwilym  yna  Dafydd  yn  ei  61  i  Faeslialeg  at  Ifor 
Hael  lie  bu  gan  fwyaf  hyd  farw  Ifor  Hael  a  Nest  ei  wraig  o'r 
baint  chwarren  yn  Nhy  Escob  Llandaf  yn  Llangadwaladr  yng 
Ngwent  iscoed  lie  yddoeddent  yng  ngwesteiaeth,  aV  Esgob  a  fu 
farw  yno  gyda  nhwy  ;  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym  yn  dianc  drwyV  haint 
a  ddaeth  yn  ol  i  Faeshaleg,  ond  gan  nad  oedd  yno  nag  Ifor  na 
Nest  myned  a  wnaeth  ar  Amdaith  i  rodfela  Cymru,  ag  hyd  ym 
Mon  ag  Arfon,  ag  ar  ei  droion  ym  Morganwg,  a  phan  fu  far>v  ei 


94  MAN-OOFION. 

farw  ei  Dad  aeth  yn  ei  Dref  tadaeth  Broginin,  yn  Uanbadam 
fawr,  ydd  oedd  ef  erbyn  hynn  yn  dechreu  myned  mewn  oedran, 
gwedi  bod  yno  amser  nid  mawr,  efe  a  aeth  i  Fonachlog  Tal  y 
Llychau  lie  gnawd  yn  fawr  ei  barch  á*i  roesaw,  ag  yno  y  bn  ef 
farw  ag  ai  claddwyd  wyliauV  Nadolig  ym  mlwyddyn  deugain 
o  goraniad  y  Brenin  Edwart  y  drydydd,  yn  hen  wr  o  brydydd 
clodfawr. 

Dafydd  ap  Gwilym  a  wnaeth  wellhâd  nid  bychan  ar  fesor 
Gywydd,  gan  ganu  rhieingerdd  yn  oren  amo  o  neb  a  fn  erioed.  ag 
felly  terfynaV  gyfarwyddyd  am  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym 

Ifor  Hael  a  Nest  ei  wraig  a  fuant  feirw,  medd  hen  Bôl  achao, 
yn  Nhy  Esgob  Llandaf  yn  Llangadwaladr,  a  elwir  yn  awr  y  Bis- 
twn  a  Thref  Esgob,  yng  Ngwent.  Enw'*r  Esgob  oedd  John 
Pascall,  yr  hwn  hefyd  a  fu  farw  yno  yr  un  amser,  sef  yn  y  flwy- 
ddyn  1361,  y  34fed  o  goroniad  Edward  y  drydydd. 

lolo  Morgoiwg. 

Dafydd  ap  Gwilym  a  dreulioedd  rywfaint  o  ddiwedd  ei  einioes 
ym  Monachlog  Tal  y  Llychau,  lie  y  bu  farw,  ag  yno  ai  claddwyd 
ef,  yn  amser  y  Brenin  Edwart  y  Trydydd,  medd  Llyfr  Achan 
Thomas  Jones  o  Dregaron. 

Bu  farw  Edw*»  y  3'*'*  yn  1377.  Sion  Bradford. 

Yr  achos  oedd  iddo  (Dafydd  ap  Gwilym)  gwympo  mewn  cariad 
a  Morfydd  oedd  ei  dwyn  hi  oddiar  Herwyr  y  fynnent  anfodd  ami. 

Morgan  Llywdyn^  o  Gttstell  Nedd. 

Ym  Maes  y  Crugiau  ar  Lan  Teifi  y  mae  Gramadeg  o  waith 
Dafydd  ap  Gwilym,  (medd  Ben  Simon  o  Lyfr  lago  ab  Dewi.) 

Llyfr  Breckwi. 


LLYMA    ENGLYNION   MARWNAD    DAFYDD   AP   GWILYM 
Y  PRYDYDD* 

1  Dafydd  a  wnae  gerdd  Dafawd  yn  goflaid 
Oi  gyflym  fyfyrdawd 
Aeth  i  fedd,  eithaf  addawd, 
Mawr  yw  ein  briw  marw  ein  brawd. 

*  Hafod  MS. 


MAN-GOFION.  95 

2  Wylwn  a  chwynwn  och  ini  mor  wael, 

Marwolaeth  Saer  Cerddi 
Ni  cheir  Awen  Ddadeni 
Mwy  ar  waith  yn  ein  iaith  ni. 

3  Am  Ddafydd  gelfydd  goelfin  praff  awdur 

Prophwydawdd  TaliesÌD, 
Y  genid  ym  mro  ginin 
Brydydd  ai  gywydd  fal  gwin. 

4  Mil  meddant  trichant  trwy  ochain  irad 

Wyth  eraill  a  thrugain, 
Marw  y  bu  Prydydd  mirain, 
Mab  gwilym  gerdd-edlym  gain. 

5  Ym  medd  y  gorwedd  aV  garreg  arnaw, 

Mawr  emych  gloyw  ofeg, 
Accw  yn  ynys  cain  waneg 
Lie  uwch  Dwr,  Tal  Llychau  deg. 
Hopcin  ap  Thomas  ap  Einion  o  Ynys  Dawy  ai  Cant  1380. 

GRUFFYDD  GRUG. 

Gbüffüdd  grug,  Ym  Mhenmynydd  Mon  Prydydd  gwybodus  ac 
awenbell  oedd  efe,  ac  efe  a  fu  yn  ymgytgan  a  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym 
am  ferch  ym  Mon  a  honno  yn  un  a  garai  Ruflfudd ;  a  myned  yn 
gas  rynddynt,  a  brodyr  Priordy  Gwynlliw  a  ddanfonasant  wr  A 
llythyr  i  Fon  a  Ddywedai  i  Ddafydd  ap  Gwilym  farw,  Yna  Gru- 
ffudd  a  wnaeth  Farwnad  iddo  ar  gennad  ar  ei  flfordd  i  fon  wedi 
danfon  gair  i  Ddafydd  bod  Gruffudd  wedi  marw  ac  yn  ol  ei  Ddy- 
muniad  iddei  gladdu  yn  mynwent  Ystrad  Fflur ;  lie  y  dywespwyd 
wrth  Ruffudd  y  Geddit  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym ;  ag  enwiV  un  diwar- 
nod  cladda  y'  naill  ar  Hall,  Aeth  Dafydd  yno,  a  marwnad  Gariad 
i  Raffudd  Grng  He  y  cyfarfu  ef  a  Gruffudd  a  marwnad  garedig  i 
Ddafydd,  a  rhyfedd  a  llawen  y  bu  ganddynt  gyffwrdd  ar  naill  y 
llall  yn  fyw  fal  hynny  ac  o  hynny  hyd  angau  heddwch  a  chared- 
igrwydd  rhyngddynt. 

GWEHELYTH  MARCHWL\IL  YM  MAEI.OR. 

1.  Ednyfed  ap  Gruffydd  o  Farchwiail. 

2.  Madawg  ap  Gruffydd  ei  Frawd  a  elwid  madawg  Beufra.s. 


96  MAN-GOFION. 

3.  Llywelyn  ap  Gruffydd,  a  elwid  Llywelyn  Llogell  Bhison,  ae 
ac  efe  a  wnaeth  Englynion  Marchwiail,  oV  hen  ganiad,  pan  fuV 
Eisteddfod  yno  yn  amser  y  Brenin  Edward  y  Trydydd,  Ag  ym 
Mraint  yr  Arglwydd  Mortimer. 

Prydyddion  oeddynt  y  tri  Brodyr,  A  meibion  Gruffydd  ap  lor- 
werth,  ap  Einion  Goch,  ap  leoaf,  ap  Llywarch,  ap  Nynniaw,  ap 
Cynwric,  ap  Rhiwallon,  ap  Dwngad,  ap  Tudur,  Twfor  larU 
HenflFordd.     (MS.  Hafod.) 

ABALL.* 

Madoc  Benfras  y  Prydydd,  ap  Gruff,  ap  lorwerth,  ap  Einion 
goch  0  Sonlli  ym  Maelor,  ap  leuaf,  ap  Llywarch,  ap  Nyniaw, 
ap  Gynwrig,  ap  Bhiwallon  ap  Dingad  ap  Tudor  Trefor  larll 
Henffordd. 

Un  0  dri  Brodir  Marchwiail  ym  Maelor  oedd  Madoc  Ben&as,  a 
phrydyddion  y  Tri,  y  ddau  eraill  oeddynt, 

Ednyfed  ap  Gruffudd  o  Farchwiail  Athraw  lolo  Gt)ch  y  Pryd- 
ydd ;  a  Llywelyn  ap  Gruff,  a  elwir  Llogell  Bhison,  a  Llywelyn 
llogell.  ac  efe  a  wnaeth  Englynion  Marchwiail  oV  hen  ganiad.  Y 
Tri  Brodyr  hyn  a  fuant  yn  ddisgyblion  Llywelyn  ap  Gwilym  o 
Emlyn  pan  oedd  ar  ymgel  yn  Llys  Ifor  Hael  ym  Maeshaleg.  a 
Dafydd  ap  Gwilym  y  Prydydd  yno  gyda  nhwy. 

Yn  amser  y  Tri  Brodyr  hynn  y  bu  yr  Eisteddfod  fawr  ym 
Marchwiail,  ag  yno  Prydyddion  Gwynedd  a  Phowys  a  Deheu- 
barth  a  Morganwg ;  er  dwyn  ar  atgof  hen  gelfyddyd  a  Chyfrinach 
Cerdd  Dafod.  ag  oedd  ar  goll  agos  yng  Ngwynedd  a  Phowys,  ag 
nid  oedd  nemmawr  a  wyddai  gelfyddyd  a  gwybodau  Cerdd  dafod 
namyn  ym  Morganwg.  a  Mon  a  Cheredigion,  achos  colli  y  Tywy»- 
ogion  a  gofnogaesaint  y  Prydyddion.  aV  Tair  Eisteddfod  Dadeni 
y  gelwir  Un  Ifor  Hael  ym  Maesaleg,  ag  un  Llywelyn  ap  Gwilym 
yn  y  Ddol  Goch  yn  Emlyn,  ag  un  Marchwiail. 

EISTEDDFOD    GWERN    Y    CLEPPA    A    BRODYR    MARCH- 

WIAIL. 

CoFFAD'WRiAETH  am  Fcirdd  a  Phrydyddion.  o  Lyfr  Edward 
Dafydd  Antoni  Powel,  &c. 

Yn  amser  y  Brenin  Ed  wart  y  III  y  bu  Eisteddfod  yng  Ngwem 
y  Gleppa  dan  nawdd  a  Dawn  Ifor  Hael ;  ag  i  honno  daeth  Tn 

*  O  Lyfr  Theophilus  Jones. 


MAN-GOFION.  97 

Brodyr  Marchwiail  ym  Maelor  yng  Ngwlad  Bowys.  a  Llywelyn 
ap  Qwilym  oV  Ddol  Goch  yng  Ngheredigion — ^a  Thri  Brodyr 
Marchwiail  a  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym  gyda  nhwy  a  fuant  yn  ysgolheig- 
ion  Barddomaidd  Llywelyn  ap  Gwilym  yng  Ngwem  y  Gleppa  ys 
ef  Llys  Ifor  hael.  Ag  yn  yr  Eisteddfod  honno  y  doded  braint 
Gadair  ar  fesur  Gywydd  lie  nad  oedd  felly  oV  Blaen  a  phan  canwyd 
am  gadair  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym  a  ennillws  o  nerth  Awen  a  chanu  a 
Chymraeg  cynhwynol.  Ac  o  hynny  maes  braint  Gadair  i  fesur 
Cywydd  deuair  a  gwisgo  Dafydd  ap  Gwilym  ag  addum  Gadair 
Morganwg  a  rhod  enw  Dafydd  Morganwg,  ag  yng  Ngwynedd  ei 
alw  Bardd  Ifor  Hael.  ac  o  hynny  hyd  yn  awr  serchoccaf  a  goreu 
o'r  holl  fesurau  y  bemir  Gywydd,  Gwedi  hynny  bu  Eisteddfod 
dan  nawdd  Llywelyn  ap  Gwilym  yn  y  Ddol  goch  yn  Emlyn  ag  i 
honno  y  daeth  Sion  y  Cent  a  Rhys  Goch  o  Eryri  yng  Ngwyned  a 
thyfu  ymryson  rhwng  Sion  y  Gent  a  Rhys  goch,  goreu  ar  wen- 
gerdd  Sion  Gent,  a  goreu  ar  foliangerdd  Rhys  goch,  a  rhodd  y 
blaen  aV  Gadair  iV  wengerdd  ond  ni  fynnai  Sion  y  Gent  ei  wisgo 
ag  addum  Gadair  Geredigion  a  Dyfed  eithr  i  Dduw  y  rhoddai  ef  y 
blaen,  am  hynny  y  gwedai  rhai  mai  Duw  ei  hunan  a  ennillw  y 
gadair  honn — ^wedi  hynny  dodes  Llywelyn  ap  Gwilym  ganu  er 
Gadair  Geredigion  y  goreu  am  Rieingerdd  a  Bamu  Dafydd  ap 
Gwilym  yn  oreu,  ai  wisgo  aV  Cae  Bedw  ys  ef  addum  Rhieingerdd, 
vna  Llywelyn  ap  Gruffudd  un  o  dri  Brodyr  marchwiail  a  ganodd 
Englynion  marchwiail  Bedw  briglas  ar  hen  ganiad  gwedi  hynny  y 
Tri  Brodyr  a  ddodasant  Dan  Osteg  a  Rhybudd  undydd  a  blwyddyn 
Eisteddfod  ym  Maelor.  yra  Mhowys  yn  nawdd  larll  Mortimer  dan 
Goron  y  Brenin  Edwart  y  trydydd  ac  yno  y  canwyd  am  gadeiriau 
Ac  Enyfed  ap  Gruffydd  a  gafas  am  Gy>v7dd  Gwr  ac  am  Englyn- 
ion byrraf  Eiry  Mynydd,  A  Madoc  y  trydydd  brawd  a  gafas 
gadair  a  Chae  Bedw  am  Rieingerdd.  A  Dafydd  ap  gwilym  a  gan- 
odd yn  garedig  i  Fadoc  am  ei  gerdd.  Ac  yn  yr  Eisteddfod  honno 
vdd  addurawyd  lolo  goch  ag  addum  cadair  am  eu  wybodau  a 
ddysgws  Ednyfed  ap  Grufiydd  parth  Gwybodau  Gerdd  Dafod  ai 
pherthynasau.  Ac  oV  Tair  Eisteddfod  hyn  y  cafad  gwellhad  ar 
gerdd  Dafod  a  Ghynghanedd. 

CADWGAN  Y  FWYALL. 

Cadwgan  y  Fwyall  oedd  yn  byw  yng  Nglyn  Rhodne  yn  araser 
Rhyfel  Ywain  ag  yn  un  o  Gapteniaid  Ywain  y  Glyn  ar  wyr  Glyn 
Rhodne,  a  phan  elai  Gadwgan  i  Ryfel  rhodio'r  glyn  a  wnai  gan 


98  MAN-GOFION. 

hogi  ei  fwyall.  ag  o  hynny  Ywain  a  weiddai  ar  Gadwgan.  Cadwgan 
hog  dy  fwyall,  a  chyn  gynted  ag  y  clywyd  Cadwgan  yn  hogi  ei 
fwyall,  gwelid  cynifer  o  fyw  yn  wryw  a  benyw  yng  Nglyn  Bhodne 
yn  ymluyddu  atto,  ac  o  hynny  hyd  heddyw  Glawr  rhyfel  a  chad 
G-wŷr  Glynn  Bhodne  yw  Cadwgan  hog  dy  fwyall,  ag  ar  y  gair 
ymgynnyll  yn  gad  a  wnant. 


OWAIN  GLYN  DWR. 

Yn  y  Flwyddyn  oed  Crist  MCCCC.  Daeth  Owain  Glyn  dwr  i 
Forganwg.  Ag  a  ddynilles  Gastell  a  Thref  Caer  Dydd.  a  Ilawer 
Castell  arall,  ag  efe  a  dorres  Gestyll  Pen  llin  a  Llandochau  a 
Thref  Flemin,  aV  Dindryfan  Bwtler,  a  Thai  y  Fann,  a  Llan- 
fleiddan,  a  Llancwyfan,  a  Ghastell  MalSawnt.  A  Ghastell  Pen- 
mark,  ag  a  losges  lawer  oV  Pentrefydd  ar  Eglwysi  cylch  ag 
amddynt  ag  efe  a  losges  Bentrefydd  Llanfrynach  Ar  Aberthin, 
a  Ilawer  o  Dai  Llanilltud  fawr,  a  lleoedd  eraill  yn  na  chodai 
y  Gwyr  gydag  ef.  a  Ilawer  o  wyr  y  wlad  a  godasant  gydag 
ef  yn  gydgyfysgar,  ag  a  dorrasant  Gestyll  a  Thai  yn  afrifed  a 
thorri'r  tiroedd  yn  orest  benrydd,  au  dodi'n  rydd  i  bawb.  a  dwyn 
oddiar  gedym  a  goludogion.  a  rhoi  a  ddugai  i  weinion  a  thlodion, 
a  gorfu  ar  lawer  o''r  Bonedd  aV  Pendefigion  fyned  i  Loegr  yn 
nawdd  ag  ar  fwyd  y  Brenin,  ag  ymladd  creulawn  a  f u  ar  fynydd 
Brynowain  wrth  y  Bont  Faen,  Rwng  Owain  ai  wyr,  a  Gwyr  y 
Brenin,  a  gyrrwyd  ffo  ar  wyr  y  Brenin  wedi  Deunaw  awr  yn  ym- 
ladd caled  ar  gwaed  hyd  yn  eglwyddyd  y  meirch  ar  bant  y  wen- 
nol  a  rannai  ddeupen  y  mynydd, — (Llyfr  y  Parch".  Tho*.  Bassett, 
o  Lann-y-lai.) 

SYR  LAWRENS  BERCLOS  AC  OWAIN  GLYNDWR. 

Pan  oedd  Owain  Glyn  Dwr  yn  TramwyV  wlad  ynghydfelydd 
Gwr  bonheddig  diorth  a  chydag  ef  ond  un  eyfaill  cywir  yn  Bhith 
gwas  iddaw,  a'r  ddau  yn  anarfog,  achos  nid  diogel  nebun  Dan  arfan 
yr  amser  hynny,  a  Thrammwy  er  deall  edryn  Gwyr  y  wlad  ydoedd: 
felly  myned  at  Gastell  syr  Lawrens  Berclos,  a  gofyn  Lletty  nos- 
waith  yn  ffrangeg  iddaw  ef  ai  was ;  cael  hynny  yn  rwydd  iawu,  a 
chael  groeso  mawr,  a  gorouon  a  bob  peth  yn  y  Castell,  a  chan  mor 
foddlon  oedd  Sir  Lawrens  idd  ei  ei  gyfaill,  bu'n  daer  amo  aros  rhai 
ddiwarnodau  gydag  ef  a  dywedyd  ei  fod  yn  disgwyl  ar  fyrr  o 


MAN-OOFION.  99 

ddyddiau  gweled  Owaîn^Glyn  Dwr  yno  am  ei  fod  wedi  danfon  allan 
ei  holl  Ddeiladon  ai  weision,  a  Uawer  eraill  o  fiyddloniaid  iddo,  yng 
nghyrch  pob  rhan  or  wlad  yn  wyr  twng  iddo  i  gyd,  i  ddala  Owain, 
yr  hwn  a  glywsai  fod  wedi  dyfod  i'r  rhannau  hynny  o  Gymru,  ai  fod 
hefyd  dan  dwng  ei  bunan  i  roddi  gobrwyon  anrhydeddus  iddei  wyr 
06  nhwy  a  ddelaint  ag  Owain  Glyn  dwr  yno  y  naill  neu  yn  fyw 
neu  yn  farw,  Da  iawn  yn  wir,  ebe  Owain  y  byddai  diogeluV  Gwr 
bwnnw,  abod  gallu  yn  rhyw  rai  i  wneuthur  hynny,  gwedi  bod 
ynghastell  Syr  Lawrens  bedwar  diwamod  a  thair  noswaith  yn 
fawr  ei  barch  ai  roeso,  meddylws  Owain  mai  call  fyddai  myned 
iddei  fibrdd,  a  chan  rhoi  ei  Law  yn  llaw  Syr  Lawrens,  dywed 
wrtho  fal  hynn.  "  Y  mae  Owain  Glyn  Dwr,  yn  gar  cywir,  heb  na 
digofaint  na  brad  na  thwyll  yn  ei  galon,  yn  rhoi  llaw  yn  llaw  Syr 
Lawrens  Berclos,  |ag  yn  diolch  iddo  am  y  groso  ar  caredigrwydd 
ar  syberwyd  bonheddigaidd  a  gafodd  ef  ai  gyfaill  yn  rhith  gwas 
iddo,  yn  ei  Gastell,  a  chan  addaw  ar  Iw  Llaw  yn  Llaw  a  Llaw  ar 
Galon,  na  ddaw  fyth  ar  feddwl  iddaw  ddial  yr  hynn  a  feddyliodd 
Sir  Lawrens  Berclos  iddo,  ag  nas  goddefai  i  hynny  fyw  ar  ei  gof, 
nag  ar  wybod  iddo  hyd  y  bai  yn  ei  allu  ym  meddwl  ag  ar  gof  neb- 
on  o^^i  geraint  ai  gymmhlaid,''  ag  ar  hynny  Owain  ai  was  a  gyrch- 
asant  eu  ffordd  a  myned  ymaith.  Ar  hynny  syrthwys  Syr  Lawrens 
Berclos  yn  fud  gan  syndod,  a  phyth  wedi  hynny  ni  chafas  efe  ei 
oddeg  ag  ni  chlywyd  gair  byth  wedi  hynny  oi  benn. — (Llyfr  Mr. 
Lleison^r  Prysg,  gan  Ifan  o'r  flferm,  yn  Llanfleiddan  fawr.) 


HYNAFIAETH  EGLWYSIG. 


ACHAU  SAINT  YNYS  PRYDAIN* 

1,  Bran  Fendigaid  ap  Llŷr  Llediaith  a  fuV  cjntaf  o  genedl  j 
Cymry  a  droswyd  Vr  ffÿdd  yng  Nghrist,  ai  welygordd  ef  a  fu  yn 
un  0  dair  Gwelygordd  Saint  Ynys  Prydain. 

2,  Cyndaf  Sant  gwr  o'r  Israel  a  ddaeth  î  Ynys  Prydain  gyd» 
Bran  Fendigaid  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

3,  Hid  Sant  gwr  o'r  Israel  a  ddaeth  i  Ynys  Prydain  gyda  Bran 
Fendigaid.  ai  Eglwys  ef  Llanilid  yng  Ngwent. 

4,  l4leurwg  Sant,  o  wehelyth  Bran  Fendigaid,  Brenin  Ynys 
Prydain ;  ag  efe  a  elwid  Lleufer,  ap  Coel,  ap  Cyllin,  A  Lies  ap 
Coel  ap  Cyllin,  ai  Eglwys  Llandâf,  a  honno  yr  un  gyntaf  a  wnaeth 
ef,  a  chyntaf  yw  hi  a  fu  yno  erioed ;  Eglwys  arall  iddo  Llanleirwg 
yng  Ngwlad  Forgan. 

6,  Dy fan  Sant  a  ddaeth  i  Ynys  Prydain  yn  amser  Lleirwg  Sant, 
er  dodi  Bedydd  ar  genedl  y  Cymry ;  canys  cyn  no  hynny  ni  bed- 
yddid  neb  o  Gymro,  Ei  Eglwys  ef  Merthyr  Dyfan.  ym  Morganwg. 

6,  Phagan  Sant  a  ddaeth  yr  un  amser  i  Ynys  Prydain  o  anfon- 
iad  y  Pab  Elidir,  wrth  Ddamuned  Lleirwg  Sant  i  yrru  Bedydd  ar 
Grenedl  y  Cymry ;  ei  Eglwys  Llansanphagan  yng  Ngwent. 

7,  Medwy  Sant,  Llanfedwy  yng  Ngwlad  Forgan,  yn  amser 
Lleurwg  Sant. 

8,  Elfan  Sant,  yn  amser  Lleurwg  Sant  ap  Coel  ap  CyUin,  ym 
Morganwg. 

9,  Crallo  Sant,  yn  amser  Lleirwg  Sant  ap  Coel  ap  Cyllin,  yng 
Ngwent. 

10,  Gwerydd  Sant,  ap  Cadwn  ap  Cynan  ap  Eudaf  o  wehelyth 
Bran  Fendigaid  yn  Llanwerydd  yng  Ngwent,  a  elwir  yn  awr  San 
Dunwyd. 

♦0  Lyfr  Thomas  Hopcin,  o  Langrallo,  a  hwnnw  yn  un  o  Lyfrau  Thomas 
ab  Ifan  o  Dre  Brynn,  yn  yr  un  plwyf,  a  ysgrifenwyd  gantho  jrnghylch  y 
flwj'ddyn  1670. 


ACHAU  SAINT   YNYS    PRYDAIN.  101 

11,  Docheu  Sant  a  ddaeth  Tr  ynjs  honn  gyda  Phagan  Sant. 
eraill  a  ddywedant  mai  gyda  Gannon  Sant  ap  Bhidiccys  y  daeth 
ef  yma  gyntaf ;  ei  Eglwysi  Llandocheu  yng  Ngwent. 

12,  Gwynno  Sant  o  wehelyth  Bran  Fendigaid  ym  Morganwg. 

13,  Teilaw  ap  Enllech  ap  Hydwn,  ei  Eglwysi  yn  Llandâf,  a 
Llandeilaw  fawr,  a  Llandeilaw  Cresseni,  a  Llandeilaw  Ferwallt,  a 
Llandeilaw  Abercowin,  a  Llandeilaw  Bertholea,  a  Llandeilo  Glyn- 
Llyckitr,^ 

14,  Dewi  Sant  ap  Sanddef  ap  Cedig  ap  Ceredig  ap  Cyneddaf 
Wledig,  a  Nonn  ferch  Ynir  Hir  o  Gaer  Gawch  ei  fam.  Llawer 
Eglwys  iddaw  yng  Nghymni. 

15,  Cattwg  Sant,  ap  Gwynlliw  ap  Glywys,  ap  Tegid  ap  Gadeil 
Deymllwg.  ai  Eglwysi  yn  Llancarfan,  sig  yno  y  bu  gantho  Gor 
foUanns  o  Saint  a  Dysg^gion.  Eglwys  iddaw  yng  Nglynn  Nedd, 
nn  arall  Glynn  Wysg,  arall  Ystrad  Tywi.  ag  efe  a  elwid  Cattwg 
Ddoeth,  gan  ddoethed  ai  ceffid  ef  ym  mhob  Cynghor. 

16,  lestin,  ap  G^raint,  ap  Erbin,  ap  Cystenin  Gomeu,  ap  Cyn- 
&r,  ap  Tudwal  Mynwaor,  ap  Cadan,  ap  Cynan,  ap  Eadaf,  ap 
Caradawe,  ap  Bran,  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

17,  Caw,  Arglwydd  Cwm  Cawlwyd,  ap  G^raint,  ap  Erbin  (ut 
$Mpra)  efe  a  yrrwyd  d*i  gyfoeth  gan  y  Gwyddyl  Ffichti,  a  Ilyma 
enwau  Meibion  a  fuant  iddaw  yn  Saint  yng  Nghor  Cattwg,  ag  yng 
Nghor  Illtud  yng  Nghaer  Worgom,  nid  amgen,  1,  Peirio,  2,  Gall- 
go,  3,  Maelawc,  4,  Gildas  y  Coed  aur,  5,  Eugrad,  6,  Caffo.  ag 
eraill  o'i  feibion  ef  a  fuant  Saint  yng  Ngwynedd,  lie  y  ceir  eu 
heglwysaa  dan  en  henwau. 

18,  Cain  Santes  ferch  Caw  o  Gwm  Cawlwyd,  ei  heglwys  yn 
Nyfed  Ystrad. 

19,  Aneuryn  y  Coed  aur,  ab  Caw  o  Gwm  Cawlwyd,  Sant  o  Gor 
Cattwg. 

20,  Ceidiaw  ap  Ynyr  Gwent,  a  Madren  ferch  Gwrthefyr  Fen- 
digaid ei  fam ;  Sant  o  Gor  Cattwg  efe. 

21,  Elian  Ceimiad  ap  Align  Redegawg,  ap  Cardydwg,  ap  Cyngu, 
ap  Ysbwys,  ap  Cadrod  Calchfynydd ;  o  Degfan  ferch  Tewdric 
Brenin  Morganwg  ei  fam. 

22,  Elaeth  Frenin  ap  Meyryg  ap  Idno  o  Onen  Grec  ferch  Gwall- 
awc  ap  Lleenawc  ei  fam. 

•  Tcbygwn  nad  oedd  yr  Eglwys  ddiweddaf  ymma  yn  Ysgrif  Llangrallo, 
chkr  mai  (with  yr  ysgrifenniad)  ychwanegiad  lolo  Morganwg  oedd,  gann 
weled  y  difiyg. — Ab  Iolo. 


102  ACHAU   SAINT  YNYS   PBYDAIN. 

23.  D jfnawc  Sant  ab  Medrawd  ab  Gawrdaf,  ap  Gandawc  freichfras 

24.  Mydan  Sant  ap  Pasgen,  ap  Urien  Bheged,  Sant  oedd  ef  o 
Gor  Gattwg. 

25.  Gwrfyw  ap  Pasgen  ap  Urien,  ym  Mon  ei  Eglwjs. 

26.  Eurgain  ferch  Maelgwn  Gwjnedd,  ap  Gaswallawn  Lawhir 
ap  Einion  Urth,  ap  Cyneddaf  Wledig. 

27.  Lloniaw  Lawhir  o  Lanfirgain  ab  Emir  Llydaw. 

28.  Gwynnawc  Sant  mab  Gildas  j  Goed  Aur,  ap  y  Gaw 
Gawlwyd. 

29.  Genydd  ap^  Gildas  y  Goed  aur,  ap  y  Gaw  Gawlwyd,  Ei 
Eglwysi  Sainghenydd  ym  Morganwg  Ue  y  gwnaeth  ef  Gor,  lie  y 
gwnaethpwyd  Gastell  Sainghenydd  wedi  hynny,  Eglwys  aiall 
iddaw  Llangenydd  yng  Ngwyr. 

30.  Noethan  ap  Gildas  y  Goed  aur,  Sant  oedd  ef  o  Gor  Illtud. 

31.  Gawrdaf  Sant  ap  Garadawc  Freichfras  yng  Ngallt  Gawrdaf 
yng  Ngwent,  Sant  oedd  o  Fangor  Illtud 

32.  Meugant  Hen,  ap  Gyndaf  Sant  gwr  o'r  Israel. 

'   33.  Gwrai  Sant  o  Benystrywed  yn  Arustli,  Sant  o  Fangor 
Deiniol  yng  Ngwynedd. 

34.  Gyngen,  ap  Gadell  Deymllwg,  ei  Eglwys  yn  y  Mwyihig. 

35.  Dwna  Sant,  ap  Selyf,  ap  Gynan  Garwyn,  ap  Broch- 
wel  Ysgithrawc,  Sant  oedd  ef  ym  Mangor  Deiniol,  ai  Eglwys 
ym  Mon. 

36.  Peblic  Sant  ap  Magsen  Wledie,  Amherawdr  Bhufain.  ei 
Eglwys  ef  Caer  yn  Arfon,  ei  fam  ef  Elen  ferch  Eudaf  Frenin. 

37.  Afan  Buellt  ab  Garedig,  ap  Gyn-  C  Hie  jacet  Avanus 
neddaf  Wledig.  1      Episcopus.  ym 

38.  Gwynllef  ap  Gyngar,  ap  Garthwg,  i  Mynwent  Llanafan 
ap  Geredig,  ap  Gynneddaf  Wledig.  ^     fawr  ym  Muellt 

39.  Gynfelyn  ab  Bleiddyd,  ap  Meirchion,  ab  Tybiawn,  ab  Gyn- 
neddaf Wledig,  Sant  ef  o  Fangor  Deiniol. 

40.  Einion  Frenin  yn  Lleyn,     \      Meibion  Owain  Danwyn  ab 

41.  Seiriol  ym  Mhenmôn,  L     Einion   Yrth,   ab   Gynne- 

42.  Meirion  yn  y  Gantref  J      ddaf  Wledig. 

43.  Deiniol  «ap  Dynawd  Ffŷr,  ap  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  a  Dwywe 
ferch  Lynawc  ei  Fam  ;  ei  Eglwys  Bangor  Deiniol  yng  Ngwynedd, 
a  Ghôr  Saint  yno. 

44.  Asaf  ap  Sawjd  Bcnuchel,  ab  Pabo  Post  Prydain.  ei  Eglwys 
Bangor  Asaf  yng  Ngwj^nedd  is  Conwy. 

45.  CjTideym  Sant  ab  Ywain,  ab  Yrien,  ab  Gorwst,  ab  Gwaith 
Hengaer,  o  Aiiranwy  ferch  Clydno  Eiddyn  ei  Fam. 


ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  103 

46.  Gadell  ab  Urien  Bion,  ab  Llywarch  Hen,  ab  Elidir  Ly- 
danwjn. 

47.  Lleuddad  ap  Dingad,  ab  Nudd  Hael  ab  Senyllt,  ab  Gedig, 
ab  Dyfnwal  Hen,  ab  Ednyfed,  ab  Magsen  Wledig  o  Athefai  ferch 
Llawdden  o  ynys  Eiddin  yn  y  Gogledd  ei  Fam. 

48.  Baglan  ap  Dingad,  ap  Nudd  Hael,  (ut  supra)  ei  Eglwys 
Llanfaglan  ym  Morganwg ;  andl  yng  Ngwynedd, 

49.  Eleri  ap  Dingad,  ut  supra^  ym  Mhennant,  Sant  ef  o  Gor 
Deiniol. 

50.  Tegwy  ap  Dingad,  ut  Supra^  yng  Ngheredigion  ei  Eglwys. 
61.  Tyfriog  ap  Dingad,  ut  mpra^  yng  Ngheredigion  ei  Eglwys. 

52.  Gadfan  Sant  ab  Eneas  Ledwic  o  Lydaw,  a  Gwen  Teir- 
bron  ferch  Hywel  ab  Emyr  Llydaw,  yn  oes  Gwrtheym 
Gwrthenau  y  daeth  ef  Yv  Ynys  honn,  gyda  Garmon  ab  Rhi- 
diggys  o  Dir  Gul,  UeV  hanoedd,  i  adnewyddu  Cred  a  Bedydd  yn 
yr  Ynys  honn. 

53.  YUtud  Farchawg,  ab  Biccanys,  o  Dir  Llydaw,  Ei  Eglwys 
ef  Bangor  YUtud  yng  Ngwent,  Ue  y  mae  ef  yn  Sant,  Man  y  bu 
Bangor  Dewdws  yng  Nghaer  Worgorn,  a  dorrasid  gan  y  Pagan- 
iaid  anghred. 

54.  Henwyn  ap  Gwrdaf  Hen  o  Lydaw ;  Periglor  Cadfan  aH 
Saint  yn  Ynys  Enllioedd  ef. 

55.  Padam,abPedredin,  ab  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  ddaeth  \t  ynys  honn 
gyda  Garmon  ab  Ridiccys,  ag  a  fu  yn  Sant  ym  Mangor  Illdud,  a 
gwedi  hynny  Eegob  o  Sant  y  bu  yn  Llanbadarn  fawr  yng  Nghered- 
igion. Cefnder  oedd  ef  i  Gadfan, a  Chefnderwydd  eill  dau  i  YUdud 
Farchawg,  He  buant  yn  Saint  yn  ei  gor  ef,  yng  Nghaer- 
worgom. 

56.  Cynan,    ^      Saint  a  Dysgedigion  oeddent   a  ddaethant 

57.  Degwy,      J  gyda  Chadfan  gan  Armon  i'r  Ynys  honn, 

58.  Mael,        f  ag  a  fuant  Saint  ym  Mangor  lUtud,  ag 

59.  Sulien,      T  ym  Mangor  Cattwg  yn  Llancarfan  ag  a 

60.  Ethrias,    /^         aethant  i  gyd  gyda  Chadfan  yn  Saint  i 

61.  Llywyn,   1  Ynys  Enlli  namyn   Docheu   yr  hwnn  a 

62.  Llyfab,      1  ddodes   Deilaw   yn    ei   le   ef    yn   Esgob 

63.  Docheu.  -^  yn  Llan  Dâf. 

64.  Tydacho,  ab  Amwn  Ddu,  Brenin  Grawec,  ab  Emyr  Llyd- 
aw, cefnder  oedd  ef  i  Gadfan. 

65.  Peirio  Sant  ab  Caw  Cawlwyd,  Sant  ef  o  Gor  Illtyd,  a  gwedi 
lUtyd,  yn  Ben  rhaith  ar  y  Gor  honno,  ag  yno  y  gorwedd. 

66.  Triniaw  ab  Diwng,  ab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Cefnder  i  Gadfan. 


104  ACHAU   SAINT   YNY8   PSYDAIN. 

67.  Maeleric,  ab  Ghfi^ddno,  ab  Emyr  Llydaw,  cefioder  i  Gad&Hf 
ag  yn  Enlli  j  ddau  yma  yn  Saint. 

68  Tygai  Glasawc  ym  Maelan,  ab  Ithel  o  Lydaw  a  Sant  yn 
Enlli  ei  Eglwys  yng  Ngwynedd. 

69.  Llechid  ferch  Ithel  o  Lydaw,  yn  Arllechwedd  yn  Santes, 
yno  ei  heglwys. 

70.  Trillo  Sant,  ab  Ithel  o  Lydaw,  Sant  yn  Enlli  ef,  a^i  Eglwys 
yn  Bhos. 

71.  Cybi,  ab  Selyf,  ab  Geraint,  ab  Erbin,  ab  Gystenin  Oaman, 
Sant  o  Fangor  Dynawd,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yng  Nghaergybi  Môn  ag  yn 
Llangybi  yng  Ngwent. 

72.  Elfod  Sant  o  wehelyth  y  Cawlwyd,  Esgob  ef  Gaei^bi 
Môn. 

73.  Padric,  ap  Alfryt,  ap  Goronwy  o  Wareddawc  yn  Arfon,  yn 
Amser   Elfod  Sant  o  G^r  Gybi   Mon,   a  Sant  oV  Gtôr  honno. 

74.  Padric  Maenwyn  o  Dir  Gwyr,  a  droses  y  Gwyddyl  Tr 
Ffydd  yng  Nghrist,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Aberllychwr. 

75.  Gadfarch  Sant,  ab  Garadawc  Freichfras,  ab  Llyr  Merini, 
Sant  Bangor  Dunawd  ef,  ei  Eglwys  Llỳn  Arfon. 

76.  Tang>vn,  ap  Garadawc  freichfras,  Brenin  rwng  Gwy  a  Haf- 
ren,  ap  Llyr  Myrini,  Eglwys  ef,  Llangoed  Môn. 

77.  Maethleu  ap  Garadawc  freichfras,  Llanfaethleu  Môn. 

78.  Tyssiliaw  ab  Brochwel  Ysgithrawc,  ab  Cyngar,  ab  Gadell 
DeymUwg,  o  Arddun  Baunasgell  ferch  Pabo  Poat  Piydain 
ei  Fam. 

79.  Dingad  ab  Nudd  Hael,  ab  Senyllt,  Eglwys  ef  Llandmgad 
Gwent,  Sant  ef  o  Gor  Cattwg  Sant  ab  GwynUiw. 

80.  Cyngar  ab  Arthwg  ab  Geredig,  ab  Gynneddaf  Wledig.  ei 
Gor  ef  Morganwg,  Llangenys  heddiw. 

81.  Llywelyn  Sant  oV  TraUwng,  ab  Tegonwy,  ab  Teon,  ab 
Gwineu  Dafreuddwyd. 

82.  Gwyddfarch  ab  Llywelyn  o'r  TraUwng.  Sant  ef  Bangor 
Gybi  Mon. 

83.  Aelhaearn  Sant,  ab  Hygam,  ab  Gaerwael,  ab  Cyndrwyn  o 
Lystinwennau,  Gaer  Einion  Powys. 

84.  Llwchhaeam  Sant  ab  Hygarn,  ut  supra^  Sant  Bangor  Dy- 
nawd,  Eglwys  Gedewain 

85.  Gynhaeam  Sant  ab  Hygam,  ut  supra,  Eglwys  ef,  Eifion- 
ydd,  Arfon. 

86.  Gwyddfarch,  ap  Alarwt  Tywysawc  y  Pwyl.  Eglwys  ef, 
Meifod,  Powys. 


ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  105 

87.  Ystyffim  ab  Mawan  ab  Oyngen,  ab  Gadell  Dejrrnllwg,  Eg- 
Iwjs  ef  Llanjstyffan  Maelienydd. 

88.  Tyfiyddawg  Sant.  Môn. 

89.  Tudclut,     ^      Meibion  Saethenin  0  Faes  Grwyddno  Yng 

90.  (Jeneddyl,  i         Ngheredigion   a   oresgynnes    j   Mor  eu 

91.  Myrini,      V         Tiroedd  Myned  yn  Saint,  Bangor  Du- 

92.  Tudnof,      k  nawd. 

93.  Senewyr     ^ 

94.  Samson  Sant  Bangor  lUtud,  ab  Amon  Ddu  Brenin  Grawec 
yn  Llydaw,  Elsgob  ef  Bangor  honno.  Gwedi  hynny  Oaerefrawc, 
gwedi  hynny  yn  Llydaw.  Eglwys  Illtud  ei  orwedd. 

95.  Teymawc  Sant  ap  Arwystli  glofF.  DyfFryn  Clwyd  ef.  a 
Sant  ym  Mangor  Dynawd. 

96.  Tydyaw,  yn  Nerwen  Cyfeiliawc  ap  Arustli  glofF  ef. 

97.  Tefrydawc  Sant,  ap  Arustli  glofF.  Sant  ef  yn  Enlli  a  Môn. 

98.  Marchell  Merch  Arustli  glofF,  eu  mam  wynt  Achanwedd 
ferch  Amlawdd  Wledig, 

99.  Urien  ap  Gynfarch,  ap  Meirchion  Gul,  ap  Gorwst  Ledlwm, 
ap  Ceneu,  ap  Goel  Grodebawc,  Sant  ef  ym  Mangor  Gattwg,  Llan- 
carfan. 

100.  Llywarch  Hen  ab  Elidir  Lydanwyn,  ap  Meyrchyawn  Gul, 
ap  Gt>rw8t  Ledlwm,  ap  Geneu,  ap  Goel  Godebawc. 

101.  Gynwyd  Cynwydion,  ab  Cynfelyn,  ap  Gŵrthrwys,  ab  Mor, 
ab  Geneu,  ab  Goel  Godebawc,  Sant  ef,  Bangor  Gattwg. 

102.  Clydno  Eiddyn  ap  Gynwyd  Gynwydion,  ap  Gynfelyn,  ut 

103.  Gynan  Genir,  ab  Gynwyd  Gynwydion,  ap  Gynfelyn,  ut 
supra, 

104.  Gynfelyn  Drwgl,  ap  Gynwyd  Gynwydion,  ap  Gynfelyn, 
ut  iupra, 

105.  Gadrod  Galchfynydd  ap  Gynwyd  Gynwydion,  ap  Gyn- 
felyn, tU  iupra, 

106.  Dynawd,  ^  Meibion  Pabo   Post  Prydain 

107.  Garwyd  v  oeddent     a    Seint    Bangor 

108.  Sawyl  benuchel  j  Dynawd. 

109.  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  ab  Arthwys,  ab  Mor,  ab  Morydd, 
ab  Geneu,  ab  Goel  Godebawc. 

110.  Gwrgi,         Ì       Meibion  Elifer  Gosgorddfawr,    ab   Arth- 

111.  Peredur,  j  rwys  ab  Mor,  ab  Morydd,  ab  Genau  ab 
Goel  Godebog,  Saint  ym  Mangor  Illtud  oeddynt,  a  Phen  raith 
Peredur  vno. 


106  ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS  PEYDAIN. 

112.  Gwenddolau,   ^  Meibion  Ceidiaw  ab  Arthrwjs,  ab  Mŷr, 

113.  Nudd,  >     ab  Morydd,  ab  Genau  ab  Goel  Gh)de- 

114.  Cof.  j      bawc  a  Seint  jm  Mangor  Illtad. 

115.  Rhydderch  ab  Tudwal  ab  Tudclyt,  ab  Cedig,  ab  Dy fhwal  Hen. 

116.  Mordaf,  ab  Seryan,  ab  Dyfnwal  Hen. 

117.  Elffin,  ap  Gwyddnaw,  ap  Garboniawn,  ap  Dyfnwal  Hdn, 
Brenin  Gwent,  Seint  ym  Mangor  lUtud. 

118.  Gafran,  ap  Aeddan  Fradawc,  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen. 

119.  Elidir  Mwynfawr,  ap  Gorwst  Briodawr  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen. 

120.  Rhiallu,  ab  Tudwalch  Oamau.  Tywysawc  Gemiw  o,  Ddy- 
anwedd  ferch  Amiawdd  Wledig  ei  Fam, 

121.  Ffraid  Leian  ferch  Dwpdagws  Sant  o'r  Werddon,  ei  Heg- 
Iwys  LlansaniFraid  fawr  ym  Morganwg,  Eglwysi  eraill  iddi  yno, 
ag  yng  Ngwent  is  Coed,  ag  yng  Ngwaen  Uwg. 

122.  Tanwg  ab  Ithel  Hael  o  Lydaw,  Sant  ym  Mangor  Enlli, 
efe  a  ddaeth  gyda  Ghadfan  a  Gtmnon  ab  Bhidiccys,  i'*r  Ynys 
honn.  Eglwys  ef,  Ardudwy. 

123.  Nonn  mam  Dewi;  merch  Gynyr  o  Gaer  Gawch  ym  Mynyw 
hi ;  aV  Gynyr  hwnnw  a  roddes  ei  gyfoeth  i  Dduw  a  Dewi,  mal  y 
gellit  Eglwys  ym  Mynyw,  ag  yno  y  daeth  Dewi  o  Gaer  Llion  ar 
Wysg  wedi  marw  o  Arthur  Amherawdr  aV  Eglwys  honno  a  aeth 
yn  Ben  rhaith  ar  Eglwysi  Oymru 

124.  Gynyr  Gwent  o  Gŵer  Gawch  ym  Mynyw,  Tad  Nonn  Fen- 
digaid  Mam  Dewi,  a  roddes  ei  Gyfoeth  i  Dduw  aV  Saint  yn  dra- 
gywydd. 

125.  Nidan  ap  Gwrfyw  ap  Pasgen,  ap  GynfÌEurch,  ap  Meirchion, 
ap  Grwst,  ap  Genau  ap  Goel  Godebog. 

126.  Meiryn,  ap  Myrini,  ap  Saethenin  o  Faes  Gwyddnaw; 
yng  Ngwaen  Llwg  ei  Eglwys. 

127.  Lloniaw  ab  Alan  Fergam  ab  Emyr  Llydaw.  Bangor  111- 
tud,  ei  Eglwys  Geredigion. 

128.  Bodfan,    -n     Meibion  Helic  ap  Glannawc  o  Faes  Grwydd- 

129.  Brothen,  f         iiaw,  a  oresgynnes  mor  eu  Tiroedd,  Saint 

130.  Ernin,     i         yng  Ngwyndd  ydynt  o  Fangor  EnUi. 

132.  Brenda,   ^ 

♦132.  Gwynwn  ap  Helic  ap  Glannawc  yng  Ngheredigion  Sant  ef. 

133,  Edeym  ap  Gwrtheym  Gwrthenau,  o  Gor  Gattwg,  Llan- 
edeym  yng  Ngwlad  Forgan  Ei  Eglwys,  yno  hefyd  ei  gor  ef, 
Trichansant. 

•  Felly  y  gwall-gyfrif  yn  yr  ysgrif. — Ab  Iow). 


ACHAU   SAINT    YNYS   PRYDAIN.  107 

134.  Edem  ap  Nudd  ap  Beli,  ap  Rhun,  ap  Maelgwn  Gwynedd. 
Môn. 

135.  Gwrhir  Sant  Gwas  Teilaw,  ym  Mangor  Cattwg.  Ei  Eg- 
Iwya  ef  Llys  Faen,  yng  Ngwaen  Llwg. 

136.  Bleiddan  Sant  o  Dir  Grâl,  Dwy  Eglwys  ef  Morganwg ; 
ainser  Gwrtheym  Gwrtheneu  y  daeth  ef  yn  Ynys  Prydain  gyda 
Gannon  Sant  ap  Bidigys. 

137.  l8anSant,Bangor  Illtud,ei  Eglwys  efLlanisanGwaen  Llwg. 

138.  Elfyw  ap  Dirdan,  a  Banhadlen  ferch  Gynyr  o  Gaer 
€hiwch  ei  fam. 

139.  Anef  ap  Caw  Cawlwyd,  Môn,  Meudwy  ef  yno. 

140.  Beano,  ap  Hywgi,  ap  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  ap  Tegîd,  ap 
Gadell  Deymllwg.  Sant  ef,  Bangor  Gttttwg  ei  ewythr.  Pen  rhaith 
Gwynedd,  ei  Gor  yno,  Clynawc  Fawr  yn  Arfon. 

141.  Anna  Santes,  ferch  Uthyr  Bendragon,  Mam  Gynyr  Caer 
€hiwcli  hi,  Gwedi  hynny  Gwraig  Amwn  Ddu,  o  Fangor  Illtud, 
Brenin  Grawec  yn  Llydaw,  mab  iddi  oV  Amon  hwnw,  Samson 
Sant  o  Gor  Illtud. 

142.  Dogfael.  ap  Ithel  Hael,  ap  Cedig  ap  Ceredig,  ap  Cyn- 
neddaf  Wledig,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Dyfed.  Sant  hefyd  Cor  Cattwg 
Llancarfan 

143.  Mabon  Saint  ab  Enllech,  ap  Hydwn,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Llan- 
fabon  yng  Ngwlad  forgan,  Brawd  Teilaw  ef,  Eglwys  ef  Rbiwfabon 
ym  Maelor. 

144.  Tyfodwg  Sant  a  ddaeth  Ynys  bonn  gyda  Garmon  a  Cbad- 
fan,  ei  Eglwysi  ef  ym  Morganwc,  arall  yng  Nglwad  yr  Hâf. 

145.  Tudwg  Sant  o  Got  Cennydd  yng  Ngwyr,  ei  Eglwys  ef 
Morganwg. 

146.  EUdeyrn  brawd  Gwrtheyrn  Gwrtheneu,  ei  Eglwys  ef 
Morganwg. 

147.  Cathan  ap  Cawrdaf  ap  Gbradawc  Freichfras,  Ei  Eglwys 
ef  Llangatlian. 

148.  Cewydd  ap  Caw  Cawlwyd,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Llangewydd, 
Morganwc. 

149.  Garrai  ap  Cewydd  ap  Caw  Cawlwyd,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Llann- 
arrai  Morganwg. 

150.  Gwmerth  Sant,  Brawd  Llywelyn  Sant  oV  Trallwng. 

151.  Tudfyl  ferch  Brychan  Brycheiniawc,  ei  heglwys  hi  Mer- 
thyr  Tudfyl,  lie  ai  lias  gan  y  Paganiaid. 

152.  Sadwm  Sant,  Dyfed  a  Mon,  Sant  ef  Banir<^r  Asaf,  ♦> 
Boriclawr. 


108  ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS  PRYDAIN. 

153.  Rhidian  Sant  o  Gor  Gennjdd  yng  Ngwyr.  ^ 

154.  Brynach  Sant,  Eglwysi  ef  Morganwc  a  Bryeheiniawe. 

155.  Gyfelach  Sant  a  fu  Esgawb  yn  Llandaf,  ag  a  las  gan  y  pa- 
ganiaid,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Llangyfelach  yng  Ngwyr,  Arall  yn  Euas. 

156.  Madawc  Sant,  ap  Gildas  y  Good  Aur,  yng  Nghor  Cen- 
nydd,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Llannfadawc  yng  Ngwyr. 

157.  Tathan  Sant  Peryglawr  Ynyr  Gweni,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Lbmn' 
dathan  ym  Morganwc,  arall  Caerwent. 

158.  Tewdric  Sant  ap  Teithfallt,  Brenin  Morganwc,  ei  Eg- 
lwys ef  Merthyr  Tewdric,  Gwent  is  Coed ;  Ue  ai  lias  gan  y  Pa- 
ganiaid. 

159.  Tybieu  ferch  Brychan  Brycheiniog,  Sanies  hi  yn  Ystrad 
Tywi,  lie  ai  lias  gan  y  Paganiaid. 

160.  Ciwg  Sant,  ab  Arawn,  ab  Oynfarch.  Llangiwg  yng  Ngwyr 
ei  Eglwys  ef. 

161.  CoUen  Sant,  ap  Gwynnawc,  ap  Clydawc,  ap  Gawrdaf,  ap 
Garadawc  freichfras,  Llangollen  yn  lal  ei  Eglwys  ef. 

162.  Genwyn  Sant,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Geredigiawn,  Sant  ef  Bangor 
Badam. 

1 63.  liar  Sant  a  ddaeth  Ynys  honn  gyda  Ghadfan,  ag  yng 
Ngwlad  Forgan  ei  Eglwys  ef. 

164.  Hywgi  Sant,  ap  Glywis,  ap  Tegid,  ap  Gadell  Deym- 
Uwg,  a  roddes  ei  Diroedd  i  Dduw  a  Ghattwg  yn  dragywydd, 
ag  a  fu  Sant  gyda  Ghattwg.  mab  iddaw  ef  Beuno  Sant. 

165.  Tegwyn  Sant  a  ddaeth  i'r  Ynys  honn  gyda  Ghadfan  yn 
araser  Gwrtheym  Gwrthenau,  sef  y  mynnes  ef  wyr  o  Ddoethion  a 
dwyfolion  o  Dir  Gal  a  elwir  yn  awr  Ffrainc  i  adnewyddu  Cred  a 
Bedydd  yn  yr  Ynys  honn,  achos  y  GoU  aV  aball  a  ddaethai  ar  y 
Ffydd  yng  Nghrist. 

166.  Arustli  hen,  Gwr  o'r  Eidal  a  ddaeth  yma  Gryda  Bran  ap 
Llyr  Llediaith  yn  Beriglawr  iddaw. 

167.  Gwyndaf  Hen  o  Lydaw  Periglawr  Gttrmon  Sant  ap  Bidy- 
cys  a  ddaeth  ir  Ynys  Honn  GydaV  Garmon  hwnnw,  amser- Gwr- 
theym Gwrthenau. 

168.  Hefin  ap  Gwyndaf  Hen  o  Lydaw,  Periglawr  Gad&n  ai 
Saint  ym  Mangor  Enlli 

169.  Arustli  Gloff,  ap  Saethenin  Frenin  o  Faes  Gwyddnaw,  a 
oresgynnes  y  Mor  ei  Dir,  ym  Mangor  Enlli. 

170.  Gann~  Sant  ap  Gwyddlyw  ap  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywys  ap 
Tegyd,  ap  Gadell  Deymllwg,  Morganwc  ei  Eglwys,  Llangannau. 

171.  Arthan  Sant.  ei  Eglwys  ef  Gwynllwg. 


ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  109 

172.  Owyan  Sant,  Llangwyan  Gwladforgant  ei  Gor  ef,  He  ai  Uas 
gan  Baganiaid  o  Saeson. 

173.  Cyfyw  Sant,  ap  G^¥ynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  ap  Tegyd,  ap  Cadell 
Deyrnllwg,  Cofedydd  Oattwg  Sant  ef  ym  Mangor  Gattwg. 

174.  Gwyllog  Santes,  ferch  Caw  Cawlwyd  o  Dwr  Celyn  ym 
Mon,  He  y  cafas  Diroedd  gan  Faelgwn  Gwynedd,  ac  efe  a  yrrwyd 
oi  gyfoeth  yng  Nghwm  Cawlwyd  gan  y  Gwyddyl  Ffichti 

176.  Mygnach  ap  Mydhaw  o  Graer  Seen,  Cofedydd  Cor  Cybî 
Sant  ef  yng  Nghaer  Gybi  Môn,  a  Gwedi  hynny  Penn  rhaith  y 
06r  honno  ef. 

176.  Tegfan  Sant,  ym  Mon  ei  Eglwys  ef,  Periglawr  ym  Man- 
gor Gybi. 

177.  Arddun  Benasgell  forth  Pabo  Post  Prydain.  Gwraig  hi 
Broehwel  Ysgithrawc,  Brenin  Penngwem  Bowys. 

178.  Brychan  Brycheiniawc,  ab  Enllech,  ab  Hydwn,  Brenin  y 
Werddon,  Mam  Brychan,  Marchell  ferch  Tewdric,  ab  Teithfallt 
ab  Teithrin,  ab  Nynniaw,  Brenin  Grawec  a  Gbrth  Mattrin. 

179.  Samlet  Sant,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Bal  Fai  yng  Ngorwennydd. 

180.  Ffili  mab  Cennydd  ap  Aur  y  Coed  aur.  Ei  Eglwys  ef 
Bho6  Ffili  yng  Ngwyr. 

181.  Maelawc  Sant,  ap  Caw  Cawlwyd,  ef  Eglwys  Mon  ag  Ys- 
trad  Tywi. 

182.  Egwad  Sant,  ap  Cynddilic,  ap  Cennydd  ap  Aur  y  Coed 
Aur,  ef  Eglwys,  Ystrad  Tywi. 

183.  Aurdeym,  ap  Gwrtheyrn  Gwrtheneu,  Eglwys  ef  Morgan wc. 


TAIR  GWELYGORDD  SAINT  YNYS  PRYDAIN. 

I.  Cyntap  Gwelygordd  Caw  o  Brydyn  Arglwydd  Cwm  Caw- 
lwyd a  yrrwyd  oi  Wlad  gan  y  Gwyddyl  Ffichti,  ag  a  ddaeth  i 
Grymm,  a  chydag  ef  ei  feibion,  ag  Arthur  a  Maelg\^'n  Gwynedd  a 
roddes  diroedd  iddynt.  A  mwyaf  oV  Meibion  a'r  Merched  a  aeth- 
ant  yn  Seiniau  yn  y  Bangorau  ag  oeddynt  yr  amseroeJd  hynny, 
Nid  amgen  nag  un  Illtud,  ag  un  Gattwg,  ag  un  Dynawd,  ag  un 
Deinioel,  ag  un  Badam,  ag  un  Gadfan  yn  Eulli 
Plant  Caw  Brydain  y  rhai  hynn. 

1.  Peiro;  2,  Gallgof ;  3,  Eugrad ;  4,  Cennydd;  5,  Aneurin  ; 
6,  Gafib;  7,  Dirinic  ;  8  Cewydd  ;  9,  Maelawc  ;  10,  Gwrddyly  ; 
11,  Cilydd;  12,  Huail;  13,  Eigrawn;  14,  Cyhelyn  Fardd;  15, 
Cyngar  ;   16,  Samson ;  17,  Canna  ferch  y  Caw. 


110  ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PEYDAIN. 

Tad  y  rhai  hynn,  sef  y  Caw  o  Brydain,  a  yrrwyd  oi  wlad  gan  y 
Gwyddyl  Fficti,  ag  Arglwydd  Cawlwyd  oedd  efe.  A  dyfod  efe  ai 
blant,  i  Gymru  a  wnaethant ;  rhai  at  Arthur,  ag  efe  a  roddei 
iddynt  Diroedd ;  a  rhai  o  honynt  a  aethant  yn  Saint  yng  Nghor 
Illtud,  ag  yng  Nghor  Teilaw,  ag  yng  Nghor  Gattwg ;  eraill  a 
aethant  at  Faelgwn  Gwynedd,  ag  efe  a  roddes  diroedd  iddynt  ym 
Môn,  nid  amgen  na  Thwr  Celyn,  a  gwedi  hynny  Caw  o  Dwr 
Celyn  ai  gelwid  ef. 

II.  Ail  Welygordd  Saint  Ynys  Prydain,  Gwelygordd  Oyn- 
neddaf  Wledig  a  Uyma  fal  ai  dosparther  yn  saint  linoUn  o  6yn- 
neddaf  Wledig. 

1.  Dewi  mab  Sanddcf,  mab  Gedig  mab  Geredig,  mab  Gynneddaf 
Wleddig;  Mam  Dewi,  Nonn  Fendigaid  ferch  Gynyr  o  Guer  Gawch 
ym  Mynyw,  a  Santes  yn  ei  dwy  Eglwys,  un  yng  Ngwyr,  anJl 
Cedweli 

2.  Teilaw,  mab  Enllech,  mab  Hydwn,  a  fu  Frenin  yn  y  Wer- 
ddon,  mab  Ceredig,  mab  Gyneddaf  Wledig. 

3.  Edem,  mab  Beli,  mab  Bhun,  mab  Maelgwn,  mab  Gaswall- 
awn  Lawhir,  Mab  Einion  Yrth,  mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig. 

4.  Moirion,  mab  Einion  Yrth,  mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig 

5.  Gadwaladr  Fendigaid,  mab  Cadwallawn,  mab  Cadfan,  mab 
lago,  mab  Beli,  mab  Bhun,  mab  Maelgwn,  mab  Gaswallawn  Law- 
hir, mab  Einion  Yrth,  mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig. 

6.  Dogfael,  mab  Ithael,  mab  Geredig,  mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig. 

7.  Pedrwn,  mab  Corwn,  mab  Geredig,  mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig. 

8.  Tyssul,  mab  Gorwn,  mab  Geredig,  mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig. 

9.  Garannawc,  mab  Gorwn,  mab  Geredig,  mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig. 

10.  Gynfelyn,  mab  Bleiddyd,  Mab  Meiriawn,  mab  Tybiawn 
mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig. 

11.  Gyndeyrn  mab  GjTigar,  mab  Grarthwg,  mab  Geredig  mab 
Gynneddaf  \Vledig. 

12.  Gyngar,  mab  Garthwg,  mab  Geredig,  mab  Gyneddaf  Wledig. 

13.  Afan  Buellt,  mab  Geredig,  mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig,  a 
Thegfedd  ferch  Tegid  ap  Gadell  Deymllwg  ei  fam. 

14.  Gwynlliw,  mab  Gyngar,  mab  Garthwg,  mab  Geredig,  mab 
Gynneddaf  Wledig. 

15.  Eurgain,  ferch  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  mab  Gas^'allawn  Law- 
hir, mab  Einion  Yrth,  mab  Gynneddaf  Wledig. 

Ag  eraillyn  amgen  naVrhainageiro  Wehelyth  Gyneddaf  Wledig. 
III.  Trydydd  Welygordd  Saint  Ynys  Prydain,  Gwelygordd 
Brychan  Brycheiniog. 


ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN. 


Ill 


Enllech  Gk>ronawc  oedd  Frenin  yn  y  Werddon,  ag  efe  a  briodes 
Marchell  ferch  Dewdric  a  elwir  Tewdwr  Mawr  mewn  rhai  Lyfrau, 
a  mab  yr  Enllech  hwnnw  oedd  Brychan,  yr  hwn  a  gafas  Gyfoeth 
ei  Fam,  nid  amgen  Garth  Mattnn,  a  elwir  oi  enw  ef  Brychein- 
iawc,  yna  darfu  ym  Morganwg  a  Garth  Mattrin,  Ue  cyn  no  hynny 
y  gelwid  ym  Morganwc  Garth  Mattrin. 

Brychan  Bryeheiniawc  a  briodes  dair  Gwragedd,  Nid  Amgen 
1.  Prawst;  2,  Rhybrawst;  3  Eurbrawst,  au  plant  hwynt  a  aeth- 
ant  yn  Saint  ar  Ynys  Prydain,  ag  achaws  hynny  y  gelwir  Gwe- 
helyth  Brychan  Bryeheiniawc  yn  un  o  dair  Gwlygordd  Saint 
Ynys  Prydain,  a  Uyma  eu  henwau  nid  amgen. 

Y  MEIBION. 

1.  Cynawc,  9.  Bhain, 

2.  Cyflewyr,  10.  Pascen, 

3.  Dingad,  11.  Oynbryd, 

4.  Arthen,  12.  Gynfan, 

5.  Clydawc,  13.  Neffei, 

6.  Bhawin,  14.  Doewan, 

7.  Cledwyn,  16.  Dyfnan, 

8.  Ehun,  16.  Gadawc, 

Y  MERCHED. 

1.  Mechcll,  10.  Eleri, 

2.  Lleian,  11.  Eluned, 

3.  Hawystl,  12.  Gwrgon, 

4.  Dwynwen,  13.  Enfael, 

5.  Ceindrych,  14.  Bhiengar, 

6.  Gwenddydd,  15.  Goleuddydd, 

7.  Gwladus,  16.  Ceinwen, 

8.  Nefyn,  17.  Gwên, 

9.  Gwajvr  18.  Cenetlon, 

GydaV  rhain  o  Welygorddan  Ynys  Prydain,  y  mae  hefyd 
Gwelygordd  Emyr  Llydaw  a  ddaethant  ir  Ynys  honn  gyda  Chad- 
fan  a  Gannon  Sant  ap  Bidigys,  i  adnewyddu  Cred  a  Bedydd,  ag 
ymgytgori  yn  Ynys  Enlli  a  wnaethant.  Sef  oeddent 

1.  Cadfan  Sant,  mab  Eneas  Ledewig  o  Lydaw,  a  Gwen  Teir- 
bron  merch  Emyr  Llydaw  ei  Fam. 

2.  Padam,  mab  Pedredin,  mab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Cefnder  i  Gadfan. 

3.  Tydecho,  mab  Amwn  Ddu,  mab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Cefnder  i 
Gadfan. 

4.  Triniaw,  mab  Difwc,  mab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Cefnder  i  Gadfan. 


17. 

,  Mathaearn, 

18. 
19. 

Gerwyn, 
Pabiali, 

20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

Oynin, 
Dyfric, 
.  Hyclian, 
Lleeheu, 

24. 

Nefydd. 

19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

Gwawrddydd, 

Tybieu, 

Clydei, 

Tudfyl, 

Tydieu 

Tanglwst. 

25. 

Arianwen, 

26. 

Corth. 

112  ACHAU   SAINT   YNY8   PEYDAIN. 

6.  Maelryd,  mab  Gwyddnaw,  mab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Gefiideri 
GtMlfan. 

6.  Hefhyn,  mab  Gwyndaf  Hen  o  Ljdaw,  Gefhder  y  Ghvyndaf 
hwnnw  i  Emyr  Llydaw,  ai  fab  Hefiiiin  a  fa  Beriglawr  Oadfiui 
yn  Enlli. 

7.  Gynon,  a  ddaeth  gyda  Ghadfan  Tr  Ynys  iionn.  Pynghellawr 
Cadfan  ym  Mangor  EnlU  ydoedd. 

8.  Dochdwy  a  ddaeth  gyda  GbadflEui  Vr  Ynys  honn,  ag  a  fa  yn 
Enlli,  a  gwedi  hynny  y  bu'n  Esgob  yn  Eglwys  Deilaw  yn  Llui- 
daf,  tra  bu  Deilaw  yn  Enlli  gyda'r  Saint  yno  yn  Arllwybtaw  y 
Gôr  wedi  marw  Gadfan. 

9.  Mael,       '\      Geraint  oeddent  i  GadUEUi,  ag  o  Emyr  Lly- 

10.  Ethrias,'     I         daw,   a  chyda  Gad&n   y    daethant    i'r 

11.  Tanwg,      I  Ynys  honn,  ag  yn  Enlli  y  maent  yn 

12.  Sulien,       V        Saint,  a'u  heglwysi  yng  Ngwynedd,  lie 

13.  Tegwynn,  i  buant  yn  fawr  eu  dwyfoldeb  a  dedwydd- 

14.  Llewin,      1         yd  eu  Buchedd. 

15.  Llynab,    J 

16.  Tegai,  Ì      Meibion  Ithael  Hael  o   Lydaw,   a  ddaethant 

17.  Trillo,  J  gyda  Ghadfan  Vt  Ynys  honn. 

18.  Llechid  merch  Ithael  hael  o  Lydaw,  a  chwaer  Tegai  a 
Thrillo,  a  ddaeth  yn  Santes  i'r  Ynys  honn  gyda  Ghad&n  ai 
Brodyr 

19.  Baglan,  Mab  Ithael  Hael  o  Lydaw,  a  ddaeth  yn  Sant  gyda 
Ghadfan  i  Enlli 

20.  Ganna  ferch  Dewdwr,  fab  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  Mam  Elian 
Geimiad. 

21.  Flewin,     Ì      Meibion  Ithael  Hael  o  Lydaw,  Saint  o  Qor 

22.  Gredifael,  )  Y  Ty  Gwynn  ar  Daf,  yn  Nyfed,  lie  baant 
gyda  Phawl  Sant  o  Gor  lUtud  yn  Arllwybraw  Bangor. 

23.  Derfael,     Ì      Meibion  Hywcl  ab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Saint  ym 

24.  Dwywael,  j  Mangor  Enlli. 

25.  Lloniaw  Lawhir,  ap  Alan  Firgain,  ap  Emyr  Llydaw,  Sant  o 
Fangor  Gadfan. 

26.  GwenTeirbron,  ferch  Emyr  Llydaw,  oedd  mam  Gadfan  Enlli. 
A  hynn  o  Saint  a  ddaethant  gyda  Ghadfan  i  EnUi,  a  chydag  wynt 

y  ba  o  Genedl  y  Gymry  laweroedd  o  Saint,  Ue  ydd  aetlumt  gwedi 
torri  Bangor  fawr  ym  Maelawr  gan  y  Paganiaid  o  Saeson,  ag  o'r 
Gorau  eraiU  ydd  aethant  laweroedd  i  Fangor  Gtbdfan  yn  Enlli. 

Y  Seiniau  hyn  ydynt  o  Welygordd  Magsen  Wledig,  Brenin 
Ynys  Prydain,  ag  Amhcrawdr  Bhufain 


ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  113 

1.  Owain  Finddu,  ^      Meibion  Magsen  WIedig  Brenin  Ynys 

2.  Ednyfed,  r  Prydain,  ag  Amherawdr   Bhufain,   o 

3.  PebUc,  Ç         Elen  Lueddawc,  ferch  Eudaf  ap  Gara- 

4.  Gystenin,  y         dawc,  ap  Bran,  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

5.  Nudd  Hael,  ab  Senyllt,  ap  Oedig  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen,  ap  Ed- 
nyfed,  ap  Magsen  WIedig. 

6.  Dingad  ap  Nudd  hael,  ut  supra^  Gwraig  Dingad  Te&iain 
fereh  Lewddyn  Luyddawc  o  Ddinas  Eiddin  yn  y  Gogledd. 

7.  Llidnerth,  ap  Nudd  hael,  ut  supra^ 

8.  Baglan,  ap  Dingad,  ap  Nudd  hael, 

9.  Lleuddad,  ap  Dingad,  ap  Nudd  hael, 

10.  GKirytherin,  ap  Dingad,  ap  Nudd  hael, 

11.  Tegwynn,  ap  Dingad,  ap  Nudd  hael, 

12.  Tefriawc,  ap  Dingad,  ap  Nudd  hael. 

13.  Eleri,  ferch  Dingad,  ap  Nudd  hael. 

Sunt  oeddynt  yng  Nghor  Oattwg,  ag  a  aethant  gyda  Dyfric  i 
Fangor  Gadfan  yn  EnUi. 

14.  Melangell,  ferch  Gyfwlch  addwyn,  &b  Tudwal,  &b  Geredig, 
fib  Ekbyfed,  fab  Magsen  WIedig. 

15.  Madawc,  ap  Owain,  ap  Magsen  WIedig. 

A  hynn  sydd  ar  wybod  o  Seiniau  Owelygordd  Magsen  WIedig, 
rhai  o  honynt  o  Gor  Gannon  ag  o  un  lUtud,  ar  leuaf  o  honynt. 
Saint  ym  Mangor  Enlli. 

Seirioel,  mab  Owain  Danwyn,  mab  Einion  Yrth,  mab  Gyn- 
neddaf  WIedig,  a  wnaeth  Gor  Seirioel  yn  Mhenmon. 

Beuno  Sant,  ap  Hywgi,  ap  Gwynlliw,  a  wnaeth  Fangor  Glynog 
a  mawr  honno  am  ddysg  a  Ghelfyddydau. 

Oidfan  Sant  o  Lydaw,  a  Dewi,  a  wnaeth  Fangor  Enlli,  a  mwya 
rhif  Saint  yn  honno. 

Deinioel,  ap  Dynawd,  ap  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  a  wnaeth  Fangor 
Maelawr  yng  Nglann  Dyfrdwy,  lie  bu'n  ogoneddus  oV  holl  Fan- 
gorau  cyn  oi  thorri  gan  y  Saeson  di  gred  yng  Ngwaith  Perllan 
Fangor. 

Cybi  Sant  a  wnaeth  Fangor  Gybi  ym  Mon,  or  He  ai  symudwyd 
gan  Elfod  Sant  i  Arllechwedd  lie  ydd  aeth  ef  yn  Archesgob. 

Bangor  Illtud,  a  wnaethpwyd  gan  Illtud  Sant  ab  Bicanys,  nai 
fab  chwaer  i  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  Gtirmon  Sant,  ap  Bhidygus. 

Bangor  Gŵttwg,  a  wnaethpwyd,  gan  Ddyfric  Sant  a  Gttrmon 
Sant^  a  Pheriglawr  Gannon  oedd  Dyfric  yn  honno. 

Bangor  Deilaw,  a  wnaethpwyd  gan  Dyfric  a  Theilaw  yn  Llann 
Daf. 


114  ACHAÜ   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN. 

Bangor  Badam  a  wnaethpwyd  gan  Badam  Sant  o  6or  lUtiid,  a 
Dewi,  lie  ydd  aeth  Badam  yn  Archesgob  Molianus. 

Bangor  Mynyw  a  wnaethpwyd  gan  Ddewi  ag  Ynyr  o  Gaer 
Gawch,  lie  ai  Symudwyd  o  Gaerllion  ar  wysg,^mann  a^gwnaeth- 
pwyd  gan  yr  Amherawdr  Tewdws. 

Bangor  y  Ty  Gwynn  ar  Dâf  a  wnaethpwyd Jgan  Bawl  Sant  o 
gor  IUtad  a  Fflewin  a  Oredifel,  Meiblon  Ithael  Hael  o  Lydaw. 

Bangor  Dathan,  yng  Nghaer  Went,  a  wnaethpwyd  gan  Dathan 
Sant  0  Gor  Illtud,  a  nai  iddaw. 

Bangor  Gyngar,  a  wnaethpwyd  gan  Gyngar  ap  Gteraint  ap]Er- 
bin,  a  hi  a  dorred  gan  y  Paganiaid  o  Saeson,  a  gwedi  hynny  a 
wnaethpwyd  o'*r  newydd  gan  Dochau  Sant  o  Gk>r  Illtud,  ag  a 
elwid  Bangor  Dochau. 

Gennydd  Sant,  ap  Gildas  y  Ooed  aur,  a  wnaeth  Fangor  yn 
Llangennydd  yng  Ngwyr,  ag  un  arall  yn  Sainghennydd,  lie  aa 
torred  gan  y  Paganiaid  o  Saeson. 

Ar  Bangoraa  a  fuant  cyn  cael  y  Monachlogydd,  a  gwedi  hynny 
fe  ddarfu  am  danynt,  namyn  y  rhai  o  honynt  a  aothant  yn 
Fonachlogydd. 

Yn  amser  Gŵrmon  Sant  y  dosparthwyd  Gwyndai  gyntaf  i'r 
Esgobion,  a  chyn  no  hynny  nid  oedd  gan  Esgobiou  Ynys  Prydain 
ou  Gwyndai  fal  ag  y  mai  yn  awr 

Ag  felly  terfyna  Achau  Saint  Ynys  Prydain,  au  Qwely- 
gorddeu. 


Myfi  lorwerth  ap  lorwerth  Gwilym  a  gymmerais  hynn  o  Lyfr  Mr.  Tlio« 
mas  Hopkin  fy  Nghan^-r  o  Langrallo,  yr  hwn  Lyfr  ydoedd  Gwaith  Thomaf 
Ifan  o  Dre  Brynn  ym  mhlwyf  Llangrallo,  a  ysgrifenwyd  ynghylch  y  flwy- 
ddyn  1670  o  hen  Lyfrau  ysgrifen. 

/IV  O  I  V.  o  i  w. 

A  minnau,  Taliesin  ab  lolo  Morganwg,  sef  Taliesin  ab  y  lorwerth  ap  lor- 
werth Gwilym  uchod,  a'i  dadysgrifennais,  yn  fiyddlon,  air  a  llythyren,  o 
Ragysgrif  fy  Nhad,  lonawr  y  4*",  1841, — A  hynnjar  Air  a  Chydwybod, 

/l\ 

YN  ENW  DUW  A  PHOB  DAIONI. 


ACHAÜ  A  GWELYGORDDAU  SAINT  YNYS  PRYDAIN. 

O  Lyfr  Hîr  Thomas  Truman  o  Bant  Lliwydd,  Plwyf  Llansan- 

nwr,  ym  Morganwg.    0  ba  un  ai  ysgrifenwyd  gennyf  fi 

lolo  Morganwg,  yn  y  Flwyddyn,  1783. 

/l\.  O  I  V.  o  i  w. 


Taib  Prîf-Welygordd  Saînt  Ynys  Prydaîn  y  sydd,  nîd  amgen: 

Gyntaf  Gwelygordd  Brân  ap  Llyr  Llediaith,  ag  o'r  wehelyth 
honno  y  mae  Gwelygordd  y  Caw  o  Brydyn,  a  elwir  Oaw  Cawlwyd, 
a>  Caw  o  Dwr  Celyn  ym  Môn. 

Ail,  yw  Gwehelyth  Coel  godebawc,  ag  o  honno  y  mae  Gwely- 
gordd Oynedda  Wledig. 

Trydydd,  yw  Ch¥ehelyth  Brychan  Brycheiniawc,  a  ddaeth  Tr 
Ynys  honn  i  ddysga  Cred  a  Bedydd  yn  Amser  Tewdric  ap  Teîth- 
fall  Brenin  Morganwc  a  Gwent,  a  Ghurth  Mathrin,  ag  Ergin,  ag 
Enas,  a  Ch¥ent  Gt)ch  yn  y  Ddenau ;  a  Marchell  ferch  y  Tewdric 
hwnnw  oedd  Fam  Brychan  Brycheiniawc. 

I.  Crwelygordd  Bran  ap  Llyr. 

Bran  ap  Llyr  Llediaith  a  ddug  y  Ffydd  yng  Nghrist  gyntaf  iV 
Ynys  honn  o  Bufain,  achaws  hynny  y  gelwid  Bran  Fendigaid,  a 
chydag  ef  y  daeth  Ilid  Sant  gwr  ©""r  Israel,  yr  hwn  a  drosses  lawer 
oV  Cymry  Tr  Ffydd  yng  Nghrist. 

Eigen  ferch  Caradawc,  ap  Bran,  ap  Llyr  Llediaith  a  briodes 
Bendefig  a  elwid  Sarllawc,  yr  hwnn  oedd  Arglwydd  Caer  Sar- 
llawc,  a  hi  a  fu'^r  Santes  gyntaf  yn  Ynys  Prydain. 

Lleirwg  Sant,  Brenin  Ynys  Prydain,  ap  Coel,  ap  Cyllin,  ap 
Caradawc,  ap  Bran,  ap  Llyr  Llediaith ;  ei  Eglwys  ef  Llanleirwg, 
ag  on  arall  yn  Llann  Daf.  Efe  a  ddanfones  hyd  yn  Bhafain  i 
gyrchu  Esgyb  i  ddodi  Bedydd  ar  a  geisynt  y  Ffydd  yng  Nghrist 
o  Crenedl  y  Cymry,  aV  pab  Elidr  a  ddanfones  attaw  yn  Esgyb, 
Elfan,  a  Medwy,  a  Dyfan,  a  Ffagan. 

Ffagan  Sant  a  fu  Esgob  yn  Llann-Sanffagan,  ag  yno  ei  Eg- 
lwys ef. 

Dyfan  Sant  a  fu'n  Esgob  yn  y  Merthyr  Dyfan,  He  ai  lias  gan 
y  Paganiaid,  ag  yno  y  mae  ei  Eglwys  ef. 

Medwy  Sant  a  fu'^n  Esgob  yn  Llannfedwy,  lie  mae  ei  Eglwys  ef. 


116  ACHAU    A    OWELYGOBDDAU 

Elfan  Sant  a  fu'n  Esgob  yn  Ynys  y  FaUen,  lie  mae  ei  Eglwjs 
ai  Gor  ef. 

Tudwal  Sant,  ap  Gorinwr,  ap  Cadfan,  ap  Gynan,  ap  Eudaf,  ap 
Garadawc,  ap  Bran,  ap  Llŷr  Llediaith,  Sant  ag  Esgob. 

Ifor  ap  Tudwal  ap  Gorinwr,  tU  supra^  a  fa  Sant  ag  Esgob. 

Gadfrawd  Esgob,  ap  Gadfan,  ap  Gynan,  ap  Eudaf^  ap  Garad- 
awc, ap  Bran,  a  fu  Sant  yn  Ynys  Prydain. 

Gwrmael,  ap  Gadfrawd,  ap  Gadfan  Sant,  ap  Gynan,  ui  tupra. 

Gadgyfarch  Sant  ag  Esgob,  Brawd  Gwrmael  ap  Gadfrawd. 

Rhystyd  hen  Esgob  o  GaerUion  ar  Wysg,  o  Webelyth  Bran 
ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

GlofPan  Sant,  o  Wehelyth  Bran  ap  Llyr,  a  fa  yn  Esgob  amser 
Gystenin  Fendigaid. 

Mabon  Wynn,  a  elwir  Mabon  Hen,  Sant  o  Wehelyth  Bran  ap 
Llyr,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yn  Llanfabon. 

Geraint,  ab  Erbin,  ap  Gystenin  Goronawg,  Arglwydd  Oereinwg, 
ai  Eglwys  ef  yng  Nghaer  Ffawydd. 

Gypgar,  \     Meibion  Geraint  ab  Erbin,  a  fuant  yn 

Selef^  r  Saint    ynghôr  Gkumon    yn    Llan- 

lestin,  ^  carfan. 

Gaw  Gawlwyd,      J 

Gyngar,  ab  Geraint,  ab  Erbin,  Sant  o  Gor  Gktrmon,  a  vmaeth 
Gor  yn  Llangenys,  a  elwir  Llan  Doche  fawr,  a  honno  a  dorred 
gan  y  Saeson  Paganiaid,  a  Doche  Sant  a  wnaeth  Gor  yn  ei  lie  a 
elwid  Bangor  Doche. 

Selef,  ab  Geraint,  Sant  o  Gor  Gannon. 

lestin,  ab  Geraint,  ab  Erbin,  Sant  o  Gor  Gbumon,  a  wnaeth 
Eglwys  ym  Mon,  He  doded  ei  enw  arni 

Gaw  ab  Geraint,  Arglwydd  Gwm  Cawlwyd,  ym  Mhrydyn,  a 
yrrwyd  oi  wlâd  gan  y  Gwyddyl  Ffictiaid,  ag  efe  a  ddaeth  i  Gymra 
lie  cs^as  efe  ai  feibion  Diroedd  gan  yr  Amherawdr  Arthur,  a  chan 
Faelgwn  Gwynedd  ym  Mon,  sef  He  a  gafas  yno,  Twr  Gelyn ;  ag 
efe  a  elwir  hefyd  Gaw  o  Brydyn,  a  Ghaw  Gawlwyd. 

Llyma  enwau  Meibion  Caw  Gawlwyd. 

1.  Peirio  Sant  o  Gor  Illtud,  Ue  ydd  aeth  yn  Benn  rhûih,  ag 
Eglwys  iddaw  ym  Mon, 

2.  Gallgof  Sant  o  Gor  Illtud,  Eglwys  iddaw  ym  Mon.* 

3.  Eigrad  o  Gor  Illtud. 

4.  Gennydd  Sant  o  Gor  Illtud. 

5.  Aneuryn  y  Goed  Aur,  Sant  o  Gor  Gattwg. 

6.  Gyhelyn  Fardd  o  Gor  Gattwg 


8AINT    YNYS    PRYDAIN.  117 

7.  Samson,  Sant  ao  Esgob  o  Gk>r  lUtud,  et  Eglwys  ef  Gaerefrawc. 

8.  Oa&w  Sant  o  Gk>r  Oyngar,  ei  Eglwys  ef  ym  Môn 

9.  Dirinic  Sant,  ap  y  Caw,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yng  Nghaer  Efrawc, 
ag  efe  a  las  yno  gan  y  Paganiaid  Saeson. 

10.  Cewydd  ap  y  Oaw,  Sant  o  Gor  Oattwg,  ei  Eglwys  Llan- 
gewydd. 

11.  Pyngar  ap  y  Caw  o  Gror  lUtad. 

12.  Gilydd  ap  y  Oaw,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yn  Nyfed. 

13.  Ghnrddyly  ap  y  Caw,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yng  Nghaerllion  ar 
wysg. 

14.  Maelawc  ap  y  Oaw,  Sant  o  Gor  Oattwg,  ei  Eglwys  ef  ym 
Hon. 

15.  Hnail  ap  y  Oaw,  o  Gor  Oattwg,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yn  Euas. 

16.  Eigrawn  ap  y  Oaw,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yng  Nghemyw. 

17.  Oaian  Sant  ap  y  Oaw,  ei  Eglwys  ef  ym  Mhywys,  arall  ym 
Môn. 

18.  Oannaa  ferch  y  Oaw,       \ 

21.  Oywyllawc  ferch  y  Oaw,  y 

Plant  y  Oaw  a  fuant  yn  Saint  yng  Nghoreu  Garmon  Sant,  sef 
nn  lUtud,  ag  nn  Oattwg,  a  rhai  o  honynt  a  aethant  yn  Ben 
rheithiau  lie  y  gwnaethant  Eglwysydd  a  Choreu  mown  gwledydd 
eraill. 

Meibion  Gildas  Sant  ap  y  Oaw,  a  elwir  Euryn  y  Coed  aur. 

1.  Nwython,    n 

2.  Dolgan,        /  Saint  oeddent  yng  Nghor  lUtud,  ac  yng  Nghor 

3.  Cennydd,     i         Oattwg  eu  Oar. 

4.  Ghrynnaw,   ^ 

Gwynnaw,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Llanwynnaw. 

Cenydd  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  a  Ohor  yn  Llanngenydd  yng  Ngwyr, 
a  chor  arall  yn  Sainghenydd,  honno  a  dorred  gan  yr  Anghred,  aV 
CasieU  y  sydd  yn  awr  yn  ei  lie. 

Do^^^'  *  I      Eu  Heglwysi  yng  Ngwynedd 

Cybi  Sant,  ap  Selef,  ap  Geraint,  ap  Erbin,  a  fu  yng  Nghor 
Gannon,  ag  a  aeth  yn  un  Enlli,  a  gwedi  hynny  ef  a  ddoded  yn 
Esgob  ym  Môn,  yn  y  He  a  elwir  Oaergybi ;  lie  j  gwnaeth  ef  Gor, 
ag  yn  y  Gor  honno  y  byddei  Archesgobion  Gwynedd,  hyd  pan  y 
symades  Elfod  Sant  y  He,  a  myned  ym  Mangor  fawr  uwch 
Conwy. 


118  ACHAU    A    GWELYOOBDDAU 

Llyma  eraill  a  ddywedir  eu  bod  o  Wehelyth  Bran  ap  IJyr 
Llediaith,  nid  amgen,  lestin,  ap  Gadell,  ap  Gadon,  ap  Cynan,  ap 
Eudaf,  ap  Garâdawc,  ap  Bran,  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Dy&n  Sant,  gwr  o  Bofain  ap  Alcwn  aflerw,  ap  Yspwyth,  ap 
Manawydan,  ap  Lljr  Llediaith.  efe  a  ddanfoned  yn  Esgob  i 
Gymru  gan  y  Pab  Elidir,  ag  efe  a  las  gan  y  Paganiaid  yn  y  Mer- 
thyr  Dyfan,  lie  ydd  oedd  yn  Esgob. 

Eldad  Esgob  o  Got  lUdud,  ab  Arth,  ab  Arthwg  irych,  ap  Gys- 
tenin  Gt)ronawc  ap  Gyn&r,  ap  Tudwal  Mynwaor,  ap  Gadan,  ap 
Gynan,  ap  Eudaf,  ap  Garadawc,  ap  Bran  ap  Llyr  Lle<Ûaith. 

[Mae  camsyniad  yma  neu  ynteu  yn  y  peth  a  ddywedir  am  El- 
dad mewn  man  arall.  Gwel  ymlaen  dan  Gadell  Deynüluc. — 
I.  Morg.] 

Marchell,  ferch  Dewdric,  ap  Teithfall,  Brenin  Morganwg,  mam 
Brychan  Brycheiniawc 

Tegwen  ferch  Dewdric,  ap  Teithfall  oedd  Gwraig  GhiUga  Biedd- 
awe,  Tad  Elien  Geimiad 

Ufelwyn  ap  Genydd,  ap  Aneuryn  y  Goed  Aor,  a  fo^n 
Esgob  yn  Llan  Daf,  ag  Eglwys  iddaw  ym  Morganwc;  a 
UymaV  modd  y  dygir  ei  Fonedd  o  Fran  ap  Llyr  Llediaith ;  nid 
amgen, 

Ufelwyn  Sant  ap  Genydd,  ap  Euryn  y  Goed  aur,  ap  Caw  Gaw- 
Iwyd,  ap  G^raint,  ap  Erbin,  ap  Gystenin  Goronawc,  ap  Tudwal 
Mwynfawr,  ap  Gadfan,  ap  Gynan,  ap  Eudaf,  ap  Garadawc,  i^ 
Bran  fendigaid,  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Llyma  ddangos  y  modd  y  mae  Brychan  Brycheiniawc  yn 
dyfod  0  Fran  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Marchell  ferch  Dewdric,  a  fu  gwraig  Anllech  Goronawc,  yr 
hwnn  oedd  Frenin  y  Werddon.  a  mab  iddynt  a  elwid  Brychan, 
ag  efe  a  gafas  yn  gyfoeth  ym  mraint  ei  Fam  Garth  Mathrin,  a 
enwes  efe  oi  enw  ei  hun  Brycheiniawc,  a  llyma  ei  Fonedd  ef. 

Brychan  Brycheiniawc,  ap  Marchell,  ferch  Dewdric  fendigaid, 
Brenin  Morganwg,  a  Gwent,  a  Gttrth  Mathrin.  Ap  Teithfall  i^ 
Teithrin,  ap  Nynniaw,  ap  Eurbenn,  ap  Edric,  ap  Gasnar  draig 
Gwent,  ap  Oeiriawn  draig  Gwent,  ap  Maran  Wledig,  ap  Meirch- 
ion,  ap  Gwrgan  frych,  ap  Arthfael,  ap  Einydd,  ap  Gwrddyf,  ap 
Gorddwfn,  ap  Gorwg,  ap  Meirchion  Fawdfilwr,  ap  Owain,  ap 
Gyllin,  ap  Garadawc,  ap  Bran,  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Tair  Gwragedd  Brychan  Brycheiniawc,  sef  eu  henwau  Prosori, 
ag  Eurbrawst,  a  Rhybrawst,  ag  iddaw  o'r  Gwragedd  hynny  y  bu 
o  feibion  a  morched  y  rhai  hynn.  nid  amgen, 


SAINT  YNYS  PEYDAIN.  119 

1.  Oyiutwo  Ferthyr  a  las  gan  y  Paganiaid  Saeson,  ag  ym  Mer- 
thyr  Cynawo  ei  Eglwys  ef . 

2.  OjuewjT  Ferthyr  a  las  gan  y  Paganiaid  Saeâon,  yng  Nghe- 
redigion,  Ue  y  mae  yn  gorwedd. 

3.  Dingad  Arglwydd  Gwent  uwch  Goed,  Ue  y  mae  ei  Eglwys. 

4.  Arthen,  ei  Eglwys  ef  ydoedd  yng  Ngwynllwg,  a  honno  a 
dorred  gan  y  Paganiaid  Saeson. 

5.  Glydawc  Sant,  Ei  Eglwys  ef  yn  Euas,  lie  ai  Uas  ef  gan  y 
Paganiaid  Saeson. 

6.  Bhawin  Sant,  a  las  ar  Bont  Bun  ym  Merthyr  Tydfil. 

7.  Cledwyn  ap  Brychan,  Brenin  Ceredigion  a  Dyfed. 

8.  Bhnn  ap  Brychan,  a  las  gan  y  Paganiaid  Saeson,  wrth  Bont 
Bon,  lie  ydd  oedd  yn  cadw  y  Bont  yn  en  herbyn. 

9.  Bh^t,  a  las  yn  Lloegr  gan  y  Paganiaid  Saeson. 

10.  Pascen,  a  aeth  yn  Esgob  yn  yr  Ysbain 

11.  Gynbryd,  a  las  gan  y  Saeson  digred  ym  Mwlch  Gynbryd. 

12.  Gynfran,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yn  Llys  Faen,  a  hi  a  dorred  gan  y 
Paganiaid  Saeson. 

13.  Neffei  fab  Brychan  y  sydd  Sant  yn  yr  Ysbain,  oV  lie  han- 
oedd  ei  Fam,  sef  oedd  honno  Prosori  Trydydd  Wraig  Brychan. 

14.  Pabiali  Brawd  Neffei  unfam  y  sydd  Sant  yn  yr  Ysbain 

15.  Dogwan,  a  las  gan  y  Saeson  Paganiaid  ym  Merthyr  Dog- 
wan  yn  Nyfed  He  mae  ei  Eglwys. 

16.  Dyfiian,  ym  Mon  ei  Eglwys,  yn  y  Werddon  y  Gorwedd 

17.  Cadawc,  yn  Llangadawc  yn  Ystrad  Tywi,  y  mae  ei  Eglwys 
e{^  ag  efe  a  wnaethpwyd  yn  Esgob  gan  Ddyfrig  ei  frawd,  ag  a 
aeth  i  Ffrainc,  lie  y  gorwedd 

18.  Mathaeam  ab  Brychan,  yng  Ngheredigion  y  gorwedd. 

19.  G^rwyn  a  las  yn  Ynys  Gerwyn,  ag  Eglwys  iddaw  yng 
Nghemiw. 

20.  Cynin,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yn  Nyfed,  lie  y  bu  yn  Esgob. 

21.  Dyfric  ap  Brychan,  a  f u  yn  Beriglawr  Garmon  Sant  ap 
Bedyw,  ag  a  fa  yn  Ben  rhaith  ar  ei  gor  ef  yn  Llancarfan,  a  gwedi 
hynny  yn  Archesgob  Llan  Daf,  a  dodi  Oattwg  Sant,  ap  Gwynlliw 
yn  ei  le  ef  yn  Llancarfan,  ei  fam  ef  oedd  Eurbrawst  ferch  Meyric 
ap  Tewdric  Brenin  Morganwc. 

22.  Hychan  ap  Brychan,  yn  Nyfiiyn  Gwyd  y  mae  ei  Eg- 
lwys ef. 

23.  Llecheu  Sant  fab  Brychan  yn  Llan  Llecheu  yn  Euas  y 
mae  ei  Eglwys  ef 

24.  Nefydd  Sant  ap  Brychan,  ci  Eglwys  ef  Llann  Nefydd  yng 


120  ACHAU    A   GWELYGORDDAU 

Ngorthir  Bhyfoniawc,  a  gwedi  hynnj  efe  a  fii  yn  Esoob  yn  y 
Gh)gled(l,  lie  ai  lias  ef  gan  y  Saeson  paganiaid,  aV  Ffichti. 

25.  Gai  Sant  ap  Brychan,  yn  Aber  Gai  ei  Eglwya  ef  Ue  ai  tor- 
red  gan  y  G^nedl  ddu. 

Meibion  Brycban  a  fuant  yn  Saint  yng  Ngbor  Ghurmon  ag  yng 
Nghor  lUtud,  a  gwedi  hynny  aethant  yn  Gdr  gyda  Dyfirig  Eaeob 
yn  y  wig  ar  Wy 

Llyma  enwan  Merched  Brycban  Brycbeiniawe, 

1.  Mechell,  a  honn  oedd  wraig  gyntaf  Ynyr  o  Oaer  Oawdh,  a 
Mam  Nonn  Fendigaid  Mam  Dewi. 

2.  Lleian  Gwraig  Gafran  ap  Aeddan  Fradawc,  ap  Dyfnwal  ben, 
ap  Ednyfed,  ap  Macsen  Wledig. 

3.  Hawystl,  Ei  heglwys  yn  Llann  Hawystl  yng  Ngbaer  Loyw. 

4.  Dwynwen,  ei  heglwys  ym  Môn.  araU  yng  Ngheredigion. 

5.  Geindrycb,  ei  heglwys  yng  Ngbaer  Golawn.  • 

6.  Gwenddydd,  ei  heglwys  yn  y  Tywyn  yn  y  Gantref. 

7.  Gwladys,  Gwraig  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  ap  Te^d,  a  Mam 
Gattwg  Sant  o  Gor  Gannon. 

8.  Nefyn,  a  fa  wraig  Gynfarcb  ap  Meircbion  gnl,  ap  €K>rwBt 
Ledlwm,  ap  Genau,  ap  Goel  Gt)debawc,  a  Mam  Urien  ap  Gyn&rch 
yr  hwn  a  elwir  Urien  Reged,  Brenin  Bbeged,  sef  hynny  Gŵyr,  a 
Chedweli,  a  Ohamwyllion,  a'r  Gantref  Bychan,  ag  Is  Gennen. 

9.  Gwawr,  ferch  Frychan,  oedd  Gwraig  Elidir  Lydanwyn,  a 
Mam  Llywarch  ben,  Marcbawc  oV  Fort  Gronn  yn  Llys  Aitbnr, 
yng  Ngbaer  Llion  ar  Wysg. 

10.  Eleri  a  fu'n  Wraig  i  G^redig,  ap  Gynnedda  Wledig,  A 
Mam  Sanddef  ap  Geredig,  Tad  Dewi  Mynyw. 

11.  Elyned  ferch  Frychan  yn  y  Wyddgrug  yn  Ystrad  Alwn. 

12.  Gwrgon,  Gwraig  Gadrawd  Oalchfynydd,  Arglwydd  Galch- 
fynydd  Sef  Dwnstabl,  yn  Lloegr. 

13.  Enfail,  ei  heglwys  ym  Merthyr  Enfail,  lie  ai  Uas  gan  y 
Paganiaid  Saeson. 

14.  Bhiengan,ei  heglwys  ym  Maelienydd(Ilbiengar,  Llyfr  arall.) 
16.  Gx)leuddydd,  ei  heglwys  yn  Llanysgin  yng  Ngwent. 

16.  Geinwen,  Eglwys  iddi  ym  Môn. 

17.  Genetlon,  ym  Mynydd  y  Cymmod. 

18.  Gwen  ferch  Frychan,  ei  heglwys  yn  Nbalgarth,  He  ai  Has 
gan  y  Paganiaid  Saeson. 

19.  Gwawrddydd,  Gwraig  Cadell  Deymllwg,  a  mam  Gyngen 
Sant,  ap  Gadell  Deymllwg. 

20.  Tybi'e,  ei  heglwys  yn  Llandybie  yn  Ystrad  Tywi 


SAINT   YNYS   PEYDAIN.  121 

21.  Oljdai,  ei  heglwys  yn  Emlyn. 

22.  Tudfyl,  Sanies  hi  ym  Merthyr  Tudfyl  ym  Morganwc,  lie  ai 
llaa  gan  y  Paganiaid  Saeson,  pan  oedd  yno  yn  ymgyflwyn  ai 
Thad  9g  ynteu  yn  hen  wr,  a  Brodyr  iddi  yno  gyda  hi,  yn  ymgais 
an  Tad,  a  rhathraw  am  y  lie  ydd  oeddent  6*t  Saeson  digred  ar 
Ghryddyl  Ffichti  paganiaid,  a  Bhun  Dremrudd  mab  Brychan  a 
las  yno,  a  Nefydd  ap  Bhun  ei  fab  yn  Lane  cyn  barf  a  ymwroles  o 
weled  Uadd  ei  Dad,  a  galw  Qwyr  attaw  a  gyrru  fib  ar  ei  elynion. 
Tudfyl  ferch  Frychan  oedd  Gwraig  Cynghen  ap  Gadell  Deym- 
llwg,  a  Mam  Brochwel  Ysgithawc. 

23.  Tydeu  Sanies,  hi  yng  Nghapel  Ogwr. 

24.  Tanglwst,  Gwraig  Gwynnawc  ap  Gadell  ap  Gawrdaf,  ap 
Garadawc  Freichfras. 

25.  Arianwen  ferch  Frychan,  Gwraig  lorwerth  Hirflawdd,  ap 
Tegonwy,  ap  Teon,  ap  Gwineu  da  i  Freaddwyd,  o  wehelyth  BeU 
Mawr  Brenin  Ynys  Prydain. 

26.  Corth  ferch  Frychan,  ni  wyddys  ym  mha  le  ei  heglwys  hi, 
Gwraig  Brynach  Wyddel  oedd  hi,  a  llyma  eu  plant  nid  amgen. 

1.  Gerwyn  mab  Brynach  Wyddel  a  Ghorth  ferch  Brychan 
Brycheiniawc. 

2.  Mwynen,    \      Merched  Brynach  Wyddel  a  Ghorth,  merch 

3.  Gwenan,       v         Brychan. 

4.  Gwenlliw.    ) 

Brynach  Wyddel  a  ddaeth  gyda  Brychan  Vt  Ynys  honn,  ag  a 
fu'*n  Beriglawr  iddaw.  Ceinmyged  Brychan  Brycheiniawc  Cor 
Dyfric  yn  y  Wig  ar  wy. 

Nefydd  Sant,  ap  Bhun  Dremrudd  ap  Brychan  Brycheiniawc. 

Nefydd,  ap  Nefydd  ail,  ap  Rhun  Dremrudd. 

Tewdwr  Brycheiniawc,  ap  Nefydd,  ap  Nefydd  ail,  ap  Bhun 
Dremrudd,  ap  Brychan  Brycheiniawc. 

Andras,  ap  Bhun  Dremrudd,  ap  Brychan,  Llanandras  ym 
mhlwyf  Teilaw  Llan  Daf.  A  hynny  y  sydd  a  wyddys  am  danyut 
o  Welygordd  Brychan  Bi-ycheiniawc,  a  fuaint  yn  Saint. 

Llyma  bellach  Son  am  Welygordd  Cynedda  Wledig.  Sef  un 
Coel  Godebawc. 

Cynedda  Wledig,  ap  Edeym,  ap  Padam  Beisrudd,  ap  Tegid, 
ap  lagof,  ap  G^nedawc,  ap  Cain,  ap  Gwrgain,  ap  Doli,  ap  Gwr- 
ddoli,  ap  Dwfn,  ap  Gorddwfn,  ap  Enwerydd  ap  Onnwedd,  ap 
Dwywc,  ap  Rhychwain,  ap  Owain,  ap  Afallech,  ap  Aflech,  ap 
Lludd,  ap  Beli  mawr,  Amherawdr  Ynys  Prydain.  Mam  Cynedda 
Wledig,  Gwawl  ferch  Coel  Godebawc. 


122  ACHAU    A    GWELYGORDDAU 

Gynedda  Wledig  a  ddanfonea  Feibion  i  Wynedd  yn  erbyn  y 
Gwyddyl  a  Ddathoeddynt  gyda  Serigi  Wyddel  i  Fôn,  ag  eraill  o 
fannan  hyd  nys  dygesynt  y  rann  fwyaf  oV  wlad  honno  oddiar 
wyr  y  Wlad,  He  nad  oedd  yn  Dywysogion  neb  amynt,  a  meibion 
Cynneddaf  a  aethant  y  m  mlaen  y  Cymry  ag  a  yrraaant  y  Gwyddyl 
6*T  Wlad,  ag  au  lladdasant  a  dodi'n  Oaethion  y  rhai  a  rodded  idd- 
ynt  en  heneidiau,  yna  Gwyr  Gwynedd  a  roddasant  OreBgynnaeth 
Tr  Tywysogion  hynny  ar  y  tiroedd  a  ynnillasant  nid  amgen 
no  hynn. 

Tybiawn  ap  Gynedda  Wledic  a  ddynnillwys  y  Gantrof  gan 
yrruV  Gwyddyl  ar  ffo,  ag  yn  y  frwydr  honno  efe  a  las,  a  Goren- 
gwyr  y  Wlad  a  roddasant  Oresgynnaeth  aV  Bendefigaeth  ar 
Feiriawn  ei  fab,  ag  oi  enw  ef  y  gelwir  y  wlad  honno  Meiijonydd, 
ai  alw  yntau  Meirion  Meinonydd. 

Arwystl  ap  Gynedda  Wledic  a  ynnillawd  Gwlad  a  rodded  idd- 
aw,  ai  galw  oH  enw  ei  hun  Arwystli,  lie  ai  gelwir  yntau  Arwystl 
Arwystli.  ' 

Geredic  ap  Gynedda  Wledic  a  yrrawdd  yr  Estroniaid  o  Gantref 
y  Tyno  coch,  ag  ai  cafas  yn  Difeddiaeth,  ao  ai  gelwis  Geredigiawn 
ami  o^i  enw  ei  hun,  ag  efe  a  elwir  Geredic  Geredigiawn. 

Dunawd  ap  Gyneddaf  Wledic  a  waredawdd  Gwmmwd  Ardudwy 
yn  Eifionydd,  ac  ai  cafas  yn  Difeddiaeth,  ai  galw  Dinodyng  oi  enw 
ei  hun.  a  gelwir  ef  Dunawd  Dunodyng. 

Edeym  ap  Gynedda  Wledic  a  waredes  y  wlad  a  elwis  ef  Edeim- 
iawn  o'^i  enw  ei  hun,  ag  ar  honno  y  ca^as  ef  Oresgynnaeth,  ag 
Edeym  Edeimiawn  a^i  gelwir  ef. 

Mael  ap  Gynedda  Wledic  a  gafas  Maelienydd,  a  elwis  ef  ar  ol 
hynny,  o  alwad  ei  enw  ei  hun,  a  Mael  Maelienydd  ai  gelwir 
ef,  yn  gof  am  a  wnaeth  er  gwared  y  Wlad  honno. 

Dogfael  ap  Gynedda  Wledig  a  gafas  y  wlad  a  elwir  ol  enw  ef 
Dogweilyng,  ag  ef  a  elwir  Dogfael  Dogweilyng. 

Rhufawn  ap  Gynedda  Wledig  a  gafas  y  Gantref  a  elwid  oi  enw 
ef  Bhyfoniawc,  a  Bhufawn  Bhyfoniawc  ai  gelwir  ef,  a  Khun  hael 
o  Ryfoniawc,  canys  haela  gwr  yng  Nghymm  ydoedd  ef,  yn  yr 
amseroedd  y  bu  efe. 

Oswal  ap  Gynedda  Wledig  a  gafas  y  wlad  a  elwid  oi  enw  ef 
Osweilyng,  ag  efe  a  elwir  Oswal  Osweiliawn,  sef  y  wlad  honno 
Tref  Groes  Oswallt  ai  hamgylched. 

Glwyd  ap  Gynedda  Wledig  a  gafas  DdyfFryn  Glwyd. 

Gynir,  Meilir,  a  Meigir,  Meibion  Gwron  ap  Gyneddaf  Wledic, 
a  aethant  gyda  Ghaswallawn  Lawhir  eu  Gefhder  i  ddeol  y  Gwyddyl 


SAINT  YNYS  PRYDAIN.  123 

ar  Ffictiaid  o  Ynys  Fôn,  lie  ydd  oeddynt  wedi  myned  ar  ffo  rhag 
meibion  Cyneddaf,  a  chwedi  yingyfnerthioli  yn  yr  Ynys  honno,  a 
gwedi  brwydraw  creulon  hwy  au  gyrrasant  y  Gwyddyl  o  Fôn,  a 
Ghaswallawn  Lawhir  a  laddawdd  Syrigi  Wyddel  yno  ai  law  eî 
han,  aef  y  Syrigi  hwnnw  ydoedd  Tywysawc  y  Gwyddyl  ar  Fficht- 
iaid,  a  oresgymiasant  Wynedd  er  yn  amser  yr  Amherawdr  Mag- 
sen  Wledic,  a  gwedi  gyrm  yr  Estroniaid  o  Fôn  y  Cymry  a  ymwr- 
olasant  ac  au  gyrrasant  o  bob  man  arall  yng  Ngwynedd,  ag  nid 
aroses  yn  y  wlad  o  honynt,  namyn  a  wnaed  yn  gaethion  a  hynny 
yn  dragywydd. 

Ag  fal  hynn  y  cafas  Oynneddaf  Wledig  unbennaeth  ar  Gymru, 
ag  y  cafas  ei  feibion  ef  y  Gwledydd  a  soniwyd  am  danynt. 

A  Chaswallawn  Lawhir,  ap  Einion  Yrth,  ap  Oynneddaf  Wledig 
a  wnaeth  Eglwys  i  Dduw  yn  y  lie  y  cafas  ef  y  Fuddugoliaeth  ar 
ei  elynion,  ag  ai  gelwis  Llan  y  Gwyddyl,  ag  ym  Mon  y  mae  hon- 
no, ag  yn  awr  ei  gelwir  JCerrig  y  Gwyddyl. 

[JQu!  whether  there  be  a  circle  of  stones  there  now? — lolo 
Morganwg.] 

Einion  Frenin  ap  Einion  Yrth  ap  Cynnedda  Wledig.  Yn  Lleyn 
y  mae  ei  Eglwys  ef,  a  Brenin  G^lad  Leyn  ydoedd. 

Uyr  Myrini  ap  Einion  Yrth,  ap  Cynedda  Wledig,  ei  Eg- 
lwys ef  Llann  Llyr  Gwerthryniawn,  arall  yn  Nyfed,  arall  Cere- 
digiawn. 

1.  Gwynn  ap  Nudd,  ^      Meibion  Llyr  Myrini  o  Dy- 

2.  Caradawc  Freichfras,  V  fanwedd   ferch   Amlawdd 

3.  Gwallawc  ap  Lleenawc.      )  Wledig  eu   Mam. 

1 .  Cawrdaf,  ^  Meibion  Caradawc  Freichfras  ap  Llyr  My- 

2.  Gadfarch,  r  rini,  ap  Meirchion  Gul,  ap  Gorwst  Led- 

3.  Maethlu,  Q  Iwm,  ap  Cenau,  ap  Coel  Godebawc. 

4.  Tangwn,  j 

Cathan,  ap  Cawrdaf,  ap  Caradawc  Freichfras. 

Iddawc  Com  Prydain,  ap  Caradawc  Freichfras. 

Medrawt,  ap  Cawrdaf,  ap  Caradawc  Freichfras. 

Dyfnawc,  ap  Medrawt,  ap  Cawrdaf,  ap  Caradawc  Freichfras. 

Cadell,  ap  Cawrdaf,  ap  Caradawc  Freichfras. 

Elgnd,  ap  Cadfarch,  ap  Caradawc  Freichfras. 

Cynhafal,  ap  Elgud,  ap  Cadfarch,  ap  Caradawc  Freichfras. 

Cwyfan,  ap  Brwyno,  ap  Corth  Cadeir  o  Gwm  Dyfnawc,  ap 
Medrawt,  ap  Cawrdaf,  ap  Caradawc  Freichfras. 

Collen,  ap  Owynnawc,  ap  Cadell,  ap  Cawrdaf,  ap  Caradawc 
Freichfras. 


124  ACHAU  A  GWELTGOBDDAU 

1.  Tyfrydawc  Sant                    x  Brodjr  ydynt  a  Meibion  Ar- 

2.  Dihacr,  ym  Modfari,             /  wystl  gloS^  ap  Owam  Dan- 

3.  Tymawc,ynNyflFryn01wyd,  >  wyn,  ap  Einion  Yrth,  ap 

4.  Tudur,                                  W  Cynneddaf  Wledic.  O  Dy- 
6.  Twrog.                                    /  wynwedd   ferch   Amlawdd 

Wledic  eu  mam,  a  brodyr  unfam  ydynt,  i  Wynn  ap  Nudd,  Ganh 
dawc  Freichfras,  a  GwaUawc  ap  Lleenawc. 

Marchell,  ferch  Arwystl  gloff,  tU  supra^  a  Thywynwedd  fereh 
Amlawdd  Wledic  ei  mam. 

Helic,  ap  Glannawc,  ap  Gwgan  Gleddyfrudd,  ap  Oaradawe 
Freichfras,  ap  Llyr  Myrini,  ap  Einion  Yrth,  iq[i  Gynnedda 
Wledic. 

1.  Gwyar,  ^      Deuddengmab  Helic  ap  Glanr 


nawc,  o  Dyno  Helic  yn  y 
Gogledd,  a  oresgynnes  y 
Mor  eu  Tiroedd,  a  Saint 
ym  Mangor  iawr  ym  Mae- 
lawr  y  buant,  a  gwedi 
hynny  ydd  aethant  lai  o 
honynt  i  Gt>r  OadjEeui  yn 
EuUi,  ag  yn  Amser  Blmn 
ab  Maelgwn  y  boant* 


2.  Celynin, 

3.  Euryn   y   Coed  helic, 

4.  Gwynnwn, 
6.  Boda, 

6.  Bodwan, 

7.  Bedwas, 

8.  Brendaf, 

9.  Eychwyn, 

10.  Brothen, 

11.  Elgyfarch, 

12.  Peris.  ^ 

Dewi,  mab  Sanddef,  mab  Cedig,  Mab  Geredig,  mab  Cyneddaf 
Wledig.  Mam  Dewi,  Nonn  Fendigaid  ferch  Ynyr  o  Qaer  Ghiwch 
ym  Mynyw,  a'r  Ynyr  hwnnw  a  roddes  diroedd  i  Ddewi  ym  My- 
nyw,  lie  y  gwnaeth  ef  Fonachlawc.  a  symud  i  honno  yr  Arche»- 
gobaeth  o  Gaerllion  ar  Wysg,  lie  y  bu  Dewi  cyn  no  hynny  yn 
Archescob. 

Teilaw,  mab  Eisyllt,  mab  Hydwn,  a  fu'n  Frenin  yn  y  Werddon, 
mab  Ceredig,  mab  Cynneddaf  Wledig. 

Padam,  mab  Corwn,  mab  Ceredig,  mab  Cynneddaf  Wledig. 

Dogfael,  fab  Ithael,  fab  Ceredig,  fab  Cynneddaf  Wledig. 

Meirion,  mab  Einion  Yrth,  mab  Cynneddaf  Wledic. 

Edem,  mab  Beli,  mab  Bhun,  mab  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  mab 
Caswallawn  Lawhir,  mab  Einion  Yrth,  mab  Cyneddaf  Wledic. 

Tyssul,  mab  Corwn,  niab  Ceredig,  Mab  Cynneddaf  Wledic. 

Cadwaladr  Fendigaid,  Brenin  Ynys  Prydain,  fab  CadwaUawn^ 
fab  Cadfan,  fab  lago,  fab  Beli,  fab  Rhun,  fab  Maelgwn  G^wynedd,  fab 
Caswallawn  Lawhir,  fab  Einion  Yrth,  fab  Cynneddaf  Wledic,  ag 


SAINT  YNY8  PRYDAIN.  125 

yn  BhufEun  y  gorwedd,  ai  Esgyrn  ef  a  ddygir  oddiyno  i  Ynys 
Prydain,  ag  ynaV  Oymry  a  gant  eu  Coron  au  Teyrnas. 

Carannawc,  mab  Oorwn,  mab  Ceredic,  mab  Cynneddaf  Wledîc. 
Pyngar,  mab  Garthwg,  mab  Ceredig,  mab  Cynneddaf  Wledic, 
CÎ  Eglwys  ef  yn  Llandoche  fawr  llo  bu  ei  Gor  ef. 

pyndeym,  mab  Oyngar,  mab  Qtuiihwg,  Mab  Ceredig,  mab  Cyn- 
neddaf Wledig. 

Afan  Baellt,  fab  Cedig,  fab  Ceredig,  fab  Cynneddaf  Wledig. 
Mam  Afan  Baellt  oedd  Degfedd  ferch  Tegid  ap  Cadell  Deyrnllwg. 
€fwynlliw,  mab  Cyngar,  mab  Cbrthwg,  mab  Ceredig,  mab  Cyn- 
neddaf Wledic. 

Oynfelyn,  mab  Bleiddyd,  mab  Meiriawn,  mab  Tybiawn,  mab 
Cynneddaf  Wledic. 

Eoigain,  ferch  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  mab  Caswallawn  lawhir, 
mab  Einiawn  Yrth,  mab  Cynneddaf  Wledic. 

Brothan,  fab  Seirioel,  fab  Ussa,  fab  Ceredic,  fab  Cynneddaf 
Wledic. 

Sanddef^  ap  Ceredic,  ap  Cynneddaf  Wledic,  Tad  Dewi  Sant 
oedd  ef. 

Teymawc,  ap  Corwn,  ap  Ceredic,  ap  Cynneddaf  Wledic. 
Doged,  ap  Ceredic,  ap  Cynneddaf  Wledic. 
Ghrenaseth,  Gwraig  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  merch  Rhufawn  Rhu- 
foniawc,  ap  Cynneddaf  Wledic. 

Meirion,  ap  Owain  Danwyn,  ap  Einion  Yrth,  ap  Cynneddaf 
Wledic. 

Seirioel,  ap  Owain  Danwyn,  ap  Einion  Yrth,  ap  Cynneddaf 
Wledig.  efe  a  fu'n  Sant  yng  Nghor  Garmon,  a  gwedi  hynny  y 
Ghniaeth  Einiawn  Frenin  o  Leyn  Gor  ym  Mlienmon,  lie  dodes  ef 
ei  frawd  Seirioel  yn  Ben  rhaith  ar  y  Gor  honno,  a  dodi  Tiroedd 
a  da  tuag  atti,  a  Gwyr  [Mae  Camsyniad  yma,  Ewythr 
LlychlynagyrchyntGor  Brawd  Tad  i  Seirioel  oedd  Einion 
Seirioel  er  dysgu  gwy-  Frenin  o  Leyn. — I.  M.] 
bodaa  daionus  a  dwyfolion,  a  gorau  am  wybodau  Cor  Seirioel,  a 
Chor  Beuno  o>  holl  Gorau  yng  Ngwlad  Wynedd. 

Cynydyn,  ap  Bleiddyd,  ap  Meirion  Meirionydd,  ap  Tybiawn, 
ap  Cynneddaf  Wledig,  a  fu''n  Beriglawr  yn  Nghor  Padarn  Escob 
yn  Llanbadam  fawr,  yng  Ngheredigiawn,  lie  y  gorwedd. 

Ceinmyged  Teulu  Ceredig  ap  Cynneddaf  Wledic,  Cor  Dyfric 
Sant  ag  Archescob  yn  y  wig  ar  lann  Gwy,  a  honno  a  dorred  gan 
y  Paganiait  Saeson,  gwedi  hynny  arllwybraw  Cor  yn  ei  llo  ym 
Mynyw,  ag  un  arall  yn  y  Tŷ  Gwynn  ar  Daf  yn  Nyfed. 


126  ACHAU    A    GWELYQORDDAU 

Llyma  bellach  ddangos  Enwau  y  Saint  o  Wehelyth  Ooel  Qo- 
debawc,  Brenin  Ynys  Prydain. 

Coel  Godebawc,  Brenin  Ynys  Prydain,  ap  Tegfan,  ap  Deheu- 
fraint,  ap  Tudbwyll,  ap  Eurben,  ap  Gradd,  ap  Bhuddfedel,  ap 
Bihydeym,  ap  Eiddigant,  ap  Eurdeym,  ap  Einydd,  ap  Ennos,  i^ 
Enddolau,  ap  Afallech,  ap  Aflech,  a  Lludd,  ap  Beli  Mawr,  ap 
Mynogan,  ap  Gai,  ap  Por,  ap  Sawel  Benisel,  ap  Bhydderch,  ap  Bbo- 
dawr,  ap  Eidal,  ap  Arthfael,  ap  Seiayllt,  ap  Owidn,  ap  Gaffo»  i^ 
Bleiddydd,  ap  Meiriawn,  ap  Gorwyst,  ap  Glydnaw,  ap  Glydawe,  9f 
Ithel,  ap  Urien,ap  Andryw,  ap  Ceraint,  ap  Por,  ap  Coel,  ap  Cadell, 
ap  Geraint,  ap  Elydnawc,  ap  Morydd,  ap  Dan,  ap  Seisyllt,  ap  Cy- 
helyn,  ap  Gwrgan  farfdrwch,  ap  Beli,  ap  Dyfiiwal  Moelmad,  ap 
D^farth  hen,  ap  Prydain,  ap  Aedd  Mawr,  Brenin  Unben  cjniâd 
Ynys  Prydain. 

Elen  Santes  ferch  Goel  Gt)debawc,  a  gafas  y  Grog  fendigaid  lie 
ydd  oedd  wedi  ei  chuddiaw  dan  gamedd  gan  yr  laddewon  digred, 
a  hi  a  fa  wraig  yr  Amherawdr  Oystenin,  yr  hwn  a  wnaeth  ddinas 
Gonstinobl  er  cynnal  y  rhai  a  gredynt  yn  Nuw  a  Ghrist  ei  fii|>. 

Gwawl  ferch  Goel  Godebawc  oedd  Gwraig  Edeym  ap  Padam 
Beisrudd,  a  mam  Cynneddaf  Wledic. 

Geneu  fab  Coel  Godebawc  sydd  Sant  yng  Ngarth  Mathrin. 

Cynllo  Sant,  ap  Mor,  ap  Cenau,  ap  Goel  Godebawc,  ei  Eglwys 
ef  yng  Ngheredigiawn. 

Mor  ap  Canau,  ap  Coel  Godebawc,  yn  Llanfor  ym  Mhenllynn 
Gwynedd 

1.  Elifer  Gosgorddfawr,  \      Meibion  Arthwys  ap    Mor, 

2.  Ceidiaw  ap  Arthwys,  I.         ap    Geneu,    ap   Goel  Go- 

3.  Pabo  Post  Prydain.  J  debawc. 

1.  Sawyl  Benuchel,  ^ 

Q    Tjunawd  WiW^r  w 

S.  Arddun  Ben^geU  Gwraig  f     ^^*  ^'■^  ^***  Prydain. 
Brochwel  Ysgithrawc      y 

1.  Deinioel,  '\      Meibion  Donawd  fawr  ap   Pabo    Post 

2.  Cynwyl,  L         Prydain,  a  Cheinmyged  y  Tri  brodyr 

3.  Gwarthan,        j  hynn  yn   Nawdd  Gwehelyth  Gadell 

Deymllwg,  Bangor  fawr  ym  Maelawr  yng  Nglann  Dyfrdwy,  ag 
yno  y  buant  yn  Benrheithiau. 

Pabo  Post  Prydain  oedd  frenin  yn  y  Gogledd,  ag  efe  a  yrrwyd 
oi  wlad  gan  y  Gwyddyl  Ffichti,  ag  a  ddaeth  i  Gympu,  He  y  ca£u 
Diroedd  gan  Gyngen  Deyrnllwg,  mab  Gadell  Deymllwg,  a  chan 


SAINT   YNYS  PEYDAIN.  127 

ei  &b  ef  Brochwel  Ysgithrawc,  a  Dunawd  fab  Pabo  Post  Pr jdain 
a  roddes  Diroedd  hefyd  Tr  Oor  honno. 

Deinioel,  ap  Deinioel  ail,  ap  Dunawd,  ap  Pabo  Post  Prydain, 
Sant  o  Fangor  Maelawr,  a  gwedi  torn  honno,  efe  a  aeth  i  Wyn- 
edd  uwch  Conwy  lie  y  bu  yn  arllwybraw  Cor  Bangor  fawr  yn 
Arllechwedd,  a  elwir  Bangor  Deinioel,  yn  amser  Cadwaladr  fen- 
digaid,  yr  hwnn  a  roddes  Diroedd  at  y  Oor  honno,  a  gwedi  hynny 
symudawdd  Elfod  Sant,  ac  Escob  Caer  Gybi  y  Gwyndy  i  Fangor 
Deinioel,  Ue  ydd  aeth  ef  yn  Archescob  ar  holl  Wynedd, 

Dwywe  Santes,  ferch  Wallawc  ap  Lleenawc,  ap  Llyr  Myrini, 
ap  Meirchion  Gal,  ap  Gorwyst  Ledlwm,  ap  Cenaa,  ap  Coel  Gode- 
bawc ;  hi  a  fa  wraig  Danawd  fawr  ap  Pabo  Post  Prydain. 

Madawc  Morfryn  ap  Morydd,  ap  Mor,  ap  Cenau,  ap  Coel  Go- 
debawc,  Sant  o  Otor  Illtad. 

Elaeth  Frenin,  ap  Meyric,  ap  Idno,  ap  Meirchion  Gal,  ap 
Gorwyst  Ledlwm,  ap  Cenao,  ap  Coel  Godebawc,  Sant  ym  Mangor 
Seirioel,  ei  fam  ef  oedd  Onnen  Grec,  ferch  Gwallawc  ap  Lleenawc, 
larll  y  Mwythig. 

Urien  Bheged,  Brenin  Bheged,  sef  rhwng  Tawy  a  Thywy,  ap 
CynfÌEUH^h,  ap  Meirchion  Gul,  ap  Qorwyat  Ledlwm,  ap  Cenau,  ap 
Coel  Godebawc.  Teymas  Bheged  ydoed  Gwyr  a  Chedweli,  a 
Chamwyllon,  aV  Cantref  Bychan,  ag  Is  Cennen,  lie  bu  Urien 
gydag  wyrion  Cynneddaf  Wledig,  a  meibion  Ceredig  ap  Cyn- 
neddaf,   yn  gyrruV  Gwyddyl  o^  Wlad  honno. 

Nidan  ap  Gwrfyw,  ap  Pasgen,  ap  Cynfarcji,  ap  Meirchion 
gal,  Periglawr  y  Saint  ym  Mangor  Benmon,  ei  Eglwys  ef  ym 
Mon. 

Cynfarch,  ap  Meirchion  Gul,  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  ym  Maelawr,  ai 
henw  Llangynfarch,  a  honno  a  dorred  gan  y  Paganiaid  Saeson, 
pan  fu  waith  Perllan  Fangor, 

Cyndeym  Garthwys,  ap  Owain,  ap  Urien  Reged,  ap  Cynfarch, 
ap  Meirchion  Gul,  ap  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  ap  Cenau,  ap  Coel  Gode- 
t^wc,  efe  a  fu>  Escob  cyntaf  ym  Mangor  Assaf,  a  elwir  ynawr 
Llanelwy.  Mam  Cyndeym  Dwywe  ferch  Lewddyn  Luyddawc  o 
Ynys  Eiddin  yn  y  Gogledd. 

Tyfodwg  Sant,  ap  Gwilfyw,  ap  Marchan,  ap  Bran,  ap  Pill,  ap 
Cerfyr,  ap  Meilir  Meiliriawn,  ap  Gwron,  ap  Coel  Godebawc. 

Tudwg  Sant,  ap  Tyfodwg  Sant  ap  Gwilfyw,  ut  supra, 

Grwst,  ap  Gwaith  Hengaer,  ap  Elffin,  ap  Urien,  ap  Cynfarch, 
ni  supra^  Mam  Grwst  Euronwy  ferch  Cludno  Eiddin,  ap  Cyn- 
wyd  Cynwydion. 


128  ACHAU    A    GWELYOOBDDAÜ 

Oynwyd  Cynwydion,  ap  Oynfelyn,  ap  Gku-thwys,  ap  Moiydd 

ap  Mor,  ap  Cenam  ap  Coel  Gk)debawc,  ei  Eglwys  ef  ym  Moiv 
ganwc. 

1.  Cludno  Eiddin,  "^     Meibion  Oynwyd  Cynwydion 

2.  Gynan  Gefnhir,  r         a    foant     yn    ddiacyblion 

3.  Cadrod   Calchfynydd,  T         Cattwg   yng   Nghor  Qap- 

4.  Oynfelyn  Drwsgl.  y         mon. 

Llywarch  Hen,  ap  Elidir  Lydanwyn,  ap  MeircUon  gnl,  ap 
Gtorwst  Ledlwm,  ap  Ceneu,  ap  Ooel  GKnlebawc. 

Ysgwn,  ap  Llywarch  Hen. 

Buan  ap  Ysgwn  ap  Llywarch  Hen. 

Dwywc  ap  Llywarch  Hon,  Ei  Eglwys  yn  Enas 

Oadell  ap  Urien  Foeddawc,  ap  Bhan  Bhion,  ap  Llywarch  hftn. 
Ei  Eglwys  Llangadell  ym  Morganwg,  yn  Nghor  Oattwg. 

Mechydd,  ap  Sanddef  bryd  Angel,  ap  Llywarch  hôn. 

Talhaiam  Caerllion,  o  Ghkerllion  ar  wysg,  ap  Garthwys,  ap 
Morydd,  ap  Oenau,  ap  Cocl  Godebawc,  Periglawr  Emrys  WIedic 
oedd  Talhaiarn,  a  gwedi  lladd  Emrys  ydd  aeth  ef  ym  Meadwy- 
aeth,  yn  y  lie  y  mae  ei  Eglwys  ef  yn  Bhyfoniawc. 

Tangwn  ap  Talhaiam  Caerllion,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yng  Ngwiad  yr 
Haf,  ai  henw  yn  Saesoneg  Tangyntwn.  [qn  ?  Tannton.] 

Assaf  Sant  ap  Sawyl  Benuchel,  ap  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  yp  Es- 
cob  cyntaf  ym  Mangor  Assaf. 

Llamined  Angel,  ap  Pasgen,  ap  Urien  B>eged. 

Mor,  ap  Pasgen,  ap  Urien  Rheged,  yn  Enlli  y  gorwedd. 

1.  Gwrgi,  Ì      Saint  0  Fangor  lUtud,  Meibion  Elifer  Qt»- 

2.  Peredur.  j  gorddfawr,  ap  Arthwys  ap  Mor,  ap 
Morydd,  ap  Oenau,  ap  Ooel  Godebawc. 

1.  Gwenddolau,  \      Meibion  Oeidiaw  ap  Arthwys,  ap  Myr, 

2.  Nudd,  I.         ap  Morydd,  ap  Oenau,  ap  Ooel  €h>de- 

3.  Oof,  J  bawc,  Saint  o  Fangor  Hltud. 
Llawdden  Sant,  o  Ynys  Eiddin,  yn  y  Gogledd. 

Oedwyn,  ap  Gwron  Meigwron,  ap  Peredur,  ap  Elifer  GtMSgordd- 
fawr  a  Madryn,  ferch  Gorthofyr  fendigaid  ei  fam. 

Elian  Ceimiad,  mab  Gallgu  Rieddawc,  ap  Oardydwg,  ap  Oyngu, 
ap  Ysbwys,  ap  Cadrod  Oalchfynydd,  ap  Oynwyd  Cynwydion,  o 
Denai  ferch  Dewdwr  mawr  ei  fam. 

Tegfan  Sant,  Mab  Oardydwg,  Mab  Cyngu,  mab  ysbwys,  mab 
Cadrawd  Oalchfynydd,  a  Thenai  ferch  Dewdwr  Mawr  ei  fam. 

Llyma  ddangos  y  sydd  o  Seint  yng  Ngwelygordd  Oadell  Deym- 
Uwg,  ag  a  fuant  oi  flaen  of  oV  wehelyth  honno,  nid  amgen. 


SAINT    YNY8    PRYDAIN.  129 

Gadell  Deymllwg,  Brenin  Pywys,  ap  Pasgen,  ap  Bhiyddwy, 
ap  Bhuddfedel  frych,  ap  Cyndeyrn,  ap  Gwrtheyrn  Gwitheneu, 
ap  Ehydeym,  ap  Deheufraint,  ap  Euddigant,  ap  Aurdeym,  ap 
Ennydd,  ap  Ennos,  ap  Enddolao,  ap  Afallach,  ap  Aflech,  ap 
Beli  mawr. 

Aurdeym,  ap  Gwrtheyrn  Gwrthenau  oi  ferch  ei  hûn,  a  fu'n 
Sant  yn  Llann  Edeym  yng  Nghibwyr,  lie  mae  ei  Eglwys  ef,  ag 
yno  y  gorwedd :  ag  efe  a  wnaeth  Gor  yno  i  drichant  Seint,  a'r 
Saeson  ai  torres  yn  amser  Gadwaladr  fendigaid. 

Cyndeyrn,  ap  Gwrtheyrn  Gwrtheneu,  a  fu'n  Sapt  yn  Llan- 
gyndeym  Oydweli,  lie  y  mae  ei  Eglwys  ef,  ag  yno  y  gorwedd. 

Anna  ferch  Gwrthefyr  fendigaid,  a  fu''n  Wraig  Ynyr  o  G^r 
Gawch  ym  Mynyw,  a  mam  Nonn  fendigaid  mam  Dewi  Sant. 

Madiyn  ferch  Gwrthefyr  Fendigaid,  oedd  gwraig  Ynyr  Gwent. 

Gynhyiddan,  hh  Ynyr  Gwent,  A  Madryn  ferch  Gwrthefyr 
fendigaid  ei  fÌEun. 

T^wg  ferch  Ynyr  Gwent,  a  Madryn  ferch  Gwrthefyr  fendig- 
ait  ei  mam. 

Teon  Sant,  ap  Gwinau  da  i  freuddwyd,  ap  Byrlew,  ap  Bywdeg, 
ap  Bhun  Rhuddbaladr,  ap  Llery,  ap  Gasnar  Wledic,  Gloyw  Gwlad 
lydan,  ap  Lladd,  ap  Beli  Mawr,  Sant  oedd  ef  ag  Escob  yng  Nghor 
lUtad,  a  gwedi  hynny  Escob  yng  Nghaerloyw,  a  gwedi  hynny  Arch- 
escob  yn  Llundain,  ag  oddiyno  y  gyrrwyd  ef  gan  y  Saeson  Pa- 
ganiait,  yna  ydd  aeth  ef  i  Lydaw, 

Tegonwy  ap  Teon,  ap  Gwineu  da  i  freuddwyd,  ut  supra^  a  fu 
sant  ym  Mangor  lUtud,  a  gwedi  hynny  gyda  Chadfan  a  Deinioel 
yn  arllwybraw  Bangor  Enlli. 

Llywelyn  Sant  o'*r  Trallwng  Sant  o  Fangor  Enlli,  ap  Tegonwy, 
ap  Teon.  ut  supra. 

Ghrmerth,  Sant  o'r  Trallwng,  ap  Llywelyn  Sant  o'r  Trallwng, 
ap  Tegonwy,  ap  Teon,  ut  supra. 

Mabon  Sant,  ap  Tegonwy,  ap  Teon,  Brawd  Llywelyn  Sant  o'r 
Trallwng,  ei  Eglwys  ef  ym  Morganwg. 

Cyngen,  fab  Cadell  Deymllwg,  a  roddes  daoedd  a  daear  at 
Fangor  Mawr  Maelawr,  a  Cheinmyged  Teulu  Cadell  Deyrnllwg  y 
Gor  honno,  a  thri  meib  Dunawd  ap  Pabo  Post  Prydain  yn  ei  har- 
llwybraw,  ag  yn  Benrheithieu  ynddi,  sef  oeddynt  Deinioel,  a 
Chynwyl  a  Gwarthan,  a  fuant  ddisgyblion  yng  Nghor  Cattwg 
Llancarfan. 

Brochwel  Ysgithrawc,  ap  Cyngen,  ap  Cadell  Deymllwg,  Brenin 
Teymllwg  sef  y  wlad   tra  Dyfrdwy  a  Hafren,  efe  a  las  yng 


130  ACHAU    A    GWELYGORDDAU 

Ngwaith  Perllan  Fangor,  pan  dorred  y  CtoT  honno  gan  y  Pa- 
ganiait  Saeson. 

Tyssiliaw  Sant,  fab  Brochwel  Ysgithrawc  ym  Meifod  ei  Eglwys  ef. 

Mawan,  mab  Gyngen,  mab  Gadell  Deymllwg, 

Ysty&n,  fab  Mawan,  fab  Gyngen,  fab  Gadell  Deymllwg,  d 
Eglwys  ef  LlanystyfTan  ym  Maelienydd. 

Gynan  Garwyn,  mab  Brochwel  Ysgithrawc. 

Selef.  mab  Gynan  Garwyn,  mab  Brochwel  ysgithrawc. 

Dona,  fab  Selef,  fab  Gynan  Garwyn,  fab  Brochwel  Ysgithrawc. 

Enghenedl,  fab  Gynan  Garwyn,  fab  Brochwel  Ysgithrawc. 

Tegfedd,  ferch  Tegid,  fab  Gadell  Deymllwg,  a  G^wraig  Cyn- 
neddaf  Wledic,  ei  heglwys  yng  Ngwent,  lie  ai  Has  gan  y  Saeson. 

Gwynlliw  Arglwydd  Gwynllwg  ym  Morganwg,  ap  Glywis,  ap 
Tegid,  ap  Gadell  Deymllwg. 

Gattwg  Sant,  o  Lancarfan,  ap  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  ap  Tegid, 
ap  Gadell  Deymllwg,  efe  a  fu''n  Ben  rhaith  ar  y  Gor  a  beris  Gar^ 
mon  Sant  ap  Rhedyw,  ei  gwneuthur  yn  Llancarfan  yn  Ue  Dyfiric 
pan  ai  gwnaethpwyd  yn  Archescawb  Llandaf,  sef  cyntaf  oedd  y 
Gor  honno  ag  un  Illtud,  a  wnaethpwyd  gan  Armon  Sant  a 
Bleiddan  Sant  yng  Nghymru  pan  ddaethant  Vt  Ynys  honn  i  ad- 
newyddu  Gred  a  Bedydd. 

Gammarch  ab  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  ap  Tegid,  ut  mpra^  ei  Eg- 
lwys ef  ym  Muellt. 

Hywgi,  ap  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  ap  Tegid,  ut  supra. 

Beuno,  ap  Hywgi,  ap  Gwynlliw,  fit  supra^  a  wnaeth  Fangor 
Beuno,  yng  Nghlynog  fawr  yn  Arfon,  a  honno  a  fu'n  glodforosaf 
o'r  holl  Fangorau  yng  Ngwynedd  am  Wybodau  a  Dwyfoldeb,  a 
gwedi  hynny  y  gwnaethwyd  hi  yn  Fonachlog  fal  ag  y  mae 
yn  awr. 

Glywis  Gemiw,  ap  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  ap  Tegid,  ap  Gadell 
Deymllwg,  Brawd  Gattwg  Llangarfan,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Goed  Gemyw 
yng  Ngwynllwg. 

Gwodloyw  Sant,  mab  Glywis  Gemiw,  a  fu'n  Escob  yn  Llan 
Daf,  a  chyno  hynny  Periglawr  iV  Saint  yng  Nghor  Gattwg. 

Gynfyw,  ap  Gwylliw,  ap  Tegid,  ap  Gadell  Deymllwg,  Brawd 
arall  Gattwg  Llancarfan,  a  Sant  yn  ei  Gor  ef. 

Gwyddlew,  ap  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  ap  Tegid,  ap  Gadell  Deym- 
llwg, brawd  arall  i  Gattwg  Llancarfan,  a  Sant  oi  gor  ef. 

Gyflewyr,  ap  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  Brawd  etto  i  Gattwg.  a 
Sant  yn  ei  Gor  ef. 

Gannen  Santos  ferch  Gwyddlew,  ap  Gwynlliw,  ap  Glywis,  fti$Hpra. 


SAINT  YNYS  PRYDAIN.  131 

Maches  Santes,  ym  Merthyr  Maches,  lie  ai  Has,  ferch  Gwyn- 
lliw,  ap.Glywis,  ap  Tegid,  a  chwaer  Cattwg  Llancarfan,  Maches 
Sanies  a  roddai  Gardodau  i  bob  tlawd  ai  gofynai,  a  Sais  o  Bagan 
a  elai  yn  rhith  Gardottyn,  lie  y  gwypai  ei  bod  yn  rhoi  Gardawd, 
ag  ai  gwanai  dan  ei  bronn  a  chyllell. 

Edeym,  ap  Gwrhydr  drwm,  ap  Gwrhydrawc,  ap  (Jeraint,  ap 
Carannawc  ap  Cleddyfgar,  ap  Gynan  Glodrydd,  ap  Cadell  Deyrn- 
llwg,  Sant  0  Gor  Illtud, 

Eldad,  ap  G^raint,  ap  Carannawc,  ap  Cleddyfgar,  ap  Cynan 
Glodrydd,  ap  Cadell  Deyrnllwg,  Sant  o  Gor  lUtud,  ag  Arches- 
cawb  Caerloyw,  efe  a  las  gan  y  paganieit  Saeson  [gwel  Eldad  mewn 
man  arall  dan  Fran  ap  Llyr. — I.  M.] 

Ustic,  ap  Geraint,  ap  Carannawc,  tU  supra^  efe  a  Dyfric  a  fuant 
Beriglorion  Gbrmon  Sant  yng  Nghor  Garmon. 

Ceinmyged  Gwelygordd  Cadell  Deyrnllwg,  Bangor  Garmon  a 
elwir  LbuQfeithin  yn  Llancarfan,  ag  a  elwir  Bangor  Gattwg. 

Llyma  bellach  gyfarwyddyd  am  Welygordd  Emyr  Llydaw  a 
ddanfoned  i  Ynys  Prydain  i  adnewyddu  Cred  a  Bedydd,  yn  ddwy 
(Jor  y  daethant  y  Welygordd  honno  i  Ynys  Prydain.  Cyntaf 
gyda  Gbrmon  Sant,  ag  yng  Nghor  lUtud  y  Cyttrcfas.  Ail  gyda 
Chadfan  Sant,  au  Cyttref  Ynys  Enlli. 

Cyntaf  a  ddaeth  i>  Ynys  honn  oV  ddwy  Gor,  un  Garmon  Sant 
ac  Escob,  mab  Rhedyw  Sant  o  Dir  Gal  ag  ewythr  brawd  Mam  i 
ilmyr  Llydaw,  Ag  yn  amser  Cystenin  Llydaw  y  daeth  ef  yma, 
lie  ydd  aroses  ef  hyd  yn  amser  Gwrtheyrn  Gwrt  heneu,  ag  yna 
myned  i  Wlad  Ffrainc,  lie  y  bu  farw,  ag  efe  a  wnaeth  ddwy  Gor  o 
Saint,  ag  a  ddodes  Escyb  a  Dwyfolion  joiddynt  fal  y  gellynt 
ddysguV  ffydd  yng  Nghrist  i  Genedl  y  Cymry,  He  ydd  oeddynt 
wedi  ymgammu  yn  eu  fiydd  au  cred,  Un  Gor  a  wnaeth  ef  yn 
Llancarfan,  a  dodi  Dyfric  Sant  yno  yn  Ben  rhaith,  ag  efe  ei  hun 
yn  Escob  yno.  Un  arall  yn  emyl  Caerworgorn,  He  dodos  ef  Illtud 
yn  Benn  rhaith,  A  Bleiddan  Sant  yn  Benn  Escob  yno.  Gwedi 
hynny  y  dodes  ef  Escobion  yn  Llann  Daf,  ag  a  wnaeth  Dyfric  yn 
Archescob  yno,  a  dodi  Cattwg  Sant,  ap  Gwynlliw,  yn  y  Gor  yn  Llan- 
carfan yn  ei  le,  ag  ir  Archescob  Llandaf  fod  yn  Escob  iddaw  yno. 

Illdud  Farchawc,  ap  Bicanus,  Cefnder  Emyr  Llydaw ;  a  Gwe- 
ryl  ferch  Dewdric  Brenin  Morgan wc  ei  fam,  efe  a  ddoded  yn  Bonn 
rhaith  ar  y  Gor  a  wnaeth  yr  Amherawdr  Tewdws  yng  Nghaer- 
wi>rgom,  lie  y  bu  Badric  ap  Mawon  yn  dysgu  Cred  a  Chrefydd 
oynno  i  thorriV  gor  honno  gan  y  Gwyddyl,  a  dwyn  Patric  yn 
Vi^pail  i>  AVerddon. 

s 


132  ACHAU    A    GWELYOORDDAU 

Amwn  Ddu,  fab  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  fu'*n  Sant  yng  Nghor  lUtad, 
He  y  gorwedd. 

Samson  ap  Amwn  ddu  Brenin  Grawec,  ap  Emyr  Llydaw,  ag 
Anna  ferch  Meyric  ap  Tewdric,  Brenin  Morganwo  ei  fam.  a  fii'^B 
Sant  ag  Escob  yng  Nghor  Illtud,  Ue  y  gorwedd. 

Tathan,  Sant  o  fi'angor  Illtud,  ap  Amwn  Ddu  Brenin  Gbawec, 
ag  Anna  ferch  Meyric  ap  Tewdric  ei  fam,  efe  a  wnaeth  Eglwys 
Llandathan  ym  Morganwg,  ag  oddiyno  ydd  aeth  at  Ynyr  Gwent, 
i  Arllwybraw  Bangor  yng  Nghaer  Went,  Ue  y  bu  ef  yn  Bonn 
rhaith,  ag  yn  ei  henaint  efe  a  ddaeth  yn  ei  ol  i'^r  Eglwys  a  17- 
wnaethoedd  ef  yn  Llan  Dathan,  Ue  y  gorwedd. 

Gwyndaf,  ap  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  fu  yn  Beriglawr  yng  Nghor 
lUtud,  a  gwedi  hynny  efe  a  wnaethpwyd  yn  Benn  rhaith  ar  Gor 
Dyfric  yng  Nghaer  Llion  ar  Wysg,  ag  yn  ei  henaint  myned  i 
EnUi,  Ue  y  gorwedd.  Eglwys  iddaw  Llann  Wyndaf  yn  Arfon. 

Meugant  ap  Gwyndaf,  ap  Emyr  Llawdaw,  Sant  o  Gor  lUtnd,  a 
gwedi  hynny  0  Gor  Dyfric  yn  NghaerlUon  ar  Wysg,  a  aeth  yn  ei 
henaint  i  EnUi.  Ue  y  gorwedd.  Mam  Meugant  G^enonwy  ferch 
Meyric  ap  Tewdric,  Brenin  Morganwc  o  G^rth  Mathrin 

Grallo  Sant,  nai  mab  brawd  lUtud,  a  ddaeth  gyda  Gbrmon  Tr 
Ynys  honn,  ag  a  fu'n  Sant  yng  Nghor  lUtud,  ag  efe  a  wnaeth 
Eglwys  a  Chor  yn  LlangraUo  Ue  y  gorwedd.  ei  £am  ef  Canna 
Santos  ferch  Dewdwr  mawr  o  Lydaw. 

Canna  Santos,  ferch  Dewdwr  Mawr  o  Lydaw,  a  mam  Crallo 
Sant,  ei  heglwys  hi  Llanganna  ym  Morganwg. 

Bleiddan  Sant  ag  Escob  a  ddaeth  Vr  Ynys  honn  gyda  Gannon 
Sant  yn  Amser  Cystenin  fendigaid,  a  elwir  Cystenin  Llydaw,  î 
adnewyddu  Gred  a  Bedydd,  ag  a  wnaeth  Eglwysi  ym  Morganwc  ag 
amynt  ei  enw  ef,  efe  a  fu'*n  Sant  ag  Escob  ym  Mangor  lUtud. 

Hewnin,  Mab  Gwyndaf  ap  Emyr  Llydaw,  Sant  o  Gor  lUtnd,  a 
gwedi  hynny  Escob  yn  Enlli. 

Tydecho,  mab  Amwn  ddu,  Brenin  Grawec,  ab  Emyr  Llydaw. 

Pedrwn,  mab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Sant  0  Gor  lUtud. 

Padam,  fab  Pedrwn,  fab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Sant  ag  Esgob  o  Gor 
lUtud,  a  gwedi  hynny  Archescob  Llanbadam  fawr  yng  Nghere- 
digion,  Ue  y  gwnaeth  ef  Gor  chweugain  Saint. 

Hywel  ab  Emyr  Llydaw,  yng  Nghor  Illtud  y  gorwedd. 

Llynab,  fab  Alan,  fab  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  fu'*n  Esgob  yng  Nghor 
Illtud,  ag  Archescob  yn  Llandaf. 

Lloniaw,  ab  Alan,  ab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Sant  o  Gor  lUtnd,  a 
Pheriglawr  Padam  Escob  yn  Llanbadam  fawr. 


SAINT  YNY8  PRYDAIN.  133 

Lleuddad,  ab  Alan,  ab  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  fu  ynghor  lUtud, 
a  gwedi  hynny  Esgob  yn  Enlli,  a  Lleuddad  Llydaw  ai 
gelwir  ef. 

Llyma  bellach  a  fuant  gyda  Chadfan  Sant  yn  Enlli. 

Gadfan  Sant,  ap  Eneas  Ledewig  o  Lydaw,  a  Gwen  Teirbronn 
ferch  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  fu'*n  Benn  rhaith  Bangor  Gudfan  yn 
Enlli. 

Padam,  ap  Pedryn,  mab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Gefhderw  i  Gadfan. 

Tydecho,  Mab  Amwn  ddu,  Brenin  Grawec,  fab  Emyr  Llydaw, 
Ce&derw  i  Gtulfan. 

Tryniaw,  fab  Difwg,  fab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Oefnderw  î  Gadfan. 

Meilir,  fab  Gwyddnaw,  fab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Oefnderw  i  Gadfan. 

Hefnin,  fab  Gtwyndaf  hen  fab  Emyr  Llydaw,  Oefnderw  i  Gad- 
fan ai  Beriglawr  ef  yn  Enlli. 

Gynon  a  ddaeth  gyda  Ohadfan  i  Enlli,  a  Ohynghellawr  iddaw 
ef  yno. 

Baglan  Llydaw,  mab  Ithael  Hael  o  Lydaw 

Tegai,  mab  Ithael  hael  o  Lydaw. 

Trillaw,  Mab  Ithael  hael  o  Lydaw. 

Llechid  Santes,  Merch  Ithael  hael  o  Lydaw. 

Fflewin,  Mab  Ithael  hael  o  Lydaw. 

Gredifel,  mab  Ithael  hael  o  Lydaw. 

Twrog,  Mab  Ithael  hael  o  Lydaw. 

Tanwg,  Mab  Ithael  Hael  o  Lydaw. 

Baglan,  ym  Morganwg, 

Tygai,  ym  Maes  Glassawc, 

Llechid,  yn  Arllechwedd 

Tanwg,  yn  Ardudwy,  ^     eu  heglwysau. 

Twrog,  yn  Arfon, 

Gredifel,  Penn  Mynydd  Môn, 

Fflewin,  Mon. 

1.  Derfael,  "^       Meibion  Hywel  ap  Emyr  Llydaw  ocddynt, 

2.  Dwyfael,         v         a  Ohefnder>vydd  i  Gadfan  ;  a  fuant  yng 

3.  Arthfael,  j  Nghor  Illtud,  a  gwedi  hynny  gyda 
Chadfan  ym  Mangor  Enlli. 

Lloniaw,  ap  Alan,  ap  Emyr  Llydaw,  yn  Enlli  y  Gorwedd. 

1.  Oristiolys      Ì       Meibion  Hywel  fychan,  ap  Hywel  Faig,  a 

2.  Rhystud       j"  clwir  Hywel  Farchawc  ap  Euiyr  Llydaw. 
Oristiolys,  ym  Mon, 

Rhystud,  yng  Ngheredigion. 


134  ACHAU    A   GWELYGORDDAU. 

1.  Dochwy,  *\  O  Lydaw  ydd  hanoeddynt,  Geraint  i  GhMlfan, 

2.  Sullen,       i  a  ddaethant  gydag  ef  i  Wynedd  i  wrtli- 

3.  Teccwyn,  f  ladd    yr  anSyddlonion,   ag  a  foant    yn 

4.  Mael,         ^  Saint  ym  Mangor  Enlli. 
6.  Llewin, 

6.  Llynab, 

7.  Ethrias. 
Canna  Santes,   ferch  Dewdwr,    fab   Emyr    Llydaw,   Owraig 

Gallgu  Bhieddawg,  a  mam  Elian  Geimiad,  a^mam  Crallo  Sant,  ei 
hoglwys  hi  ym  Morganwc.  A  chyn  no  hynny  hi  a  Mn  briod  a 
Sadwm  Farchawc  Gefnderw  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  Brawd  Illtnd. 

Sadwm,  ap  Bicanys  Farchawc,  a  ddaeth  yn  ei  henaint  gyda 
Chadfan,  Eglwys  iddaw  yn  Emlyn,  arall  yn  Ystrad  Tywi. 

Ceinmyged  yr  Amherawdr  Tewdws  a  Ghystenin  Uydaw  Bangor 
lUtud,  lie  bu  Belerus  gwr  o  Bufain  yn  Arllwybraw,  a  Phadrio  ap 
Maewon  yn  Bonn  rhaith  cynno  i  ddwyn  yn  gaeth  o  Yspail.  gan 
y  Gwyddelod, 

Geinmyged  Emyr  Llydaw  a  Meyric  ap  Tewdric,  Brenin  Mor- 
ganwc, Gor  Gannon  a  Ghattwg  yn  Llancarfan,  a  gwedi  hynny 
Teulu  Gadell  Deymllwg, 

Geinmyged  Emyr  Llydaw  ag  Einion  ap  Owain  Danwyn,  a 
Dewi  Sant,  Bangor  Enlli. 

Ag  felly  y  terfyna. 

[0  Lyfr  hir  Tomas  Truman  o  Bant  Lliwydd,  a  fuaasai  yn  un  o  Ljfrni 
Thomas  ab  Ifan  o  Dre  Bryun.] 

DADYSGEIF  lOLO  MOEGANWO. 


Myfi, — Taliesin  ab  lolo  Moi^ganwg,— a  dynnais  yr  Achau  a  Gwelygorddao 
ucbod,  o  Ddadysgrif  fy  Nuad,  yn  Uwyr  fal  ag  a'u  ceíaîs  yno. — 18él. 


ACHAU  SAINT  YNYS  PRYDAIN. 
(0  Lyfr  Mr.  Cobb,  o  Gaer  Dydd.) 

Bran  Fendigaid  ap  Llyr  Lledîaith,  y  cyntaf  o  Q^nedl  y  Cymry 
a  ddygwyd  fr  ffydd  yng  Nghrist,  ai  Welygordd  ef  ywV  hynaf  o 
Welygorddau  Saint  Ynys  Prydain.  ei  Eglwys  ef  Llan  Daf. 

Awystl  hen  gwr  o'*r  Eidal  a  ddaeth  gyda  Bran  ap  Llyr  i  Ynys 
Prydidn  i  ddysguV  ffydd  yng  Nghrist. 

Bid  Sant  gwr  oV  Israel  a  ddaeth  gyda  Bran  ap  Llyr  o  Bofain  i 
ddysgu'r  ffydd  ynghrist  i  Gtenedl  y  Cymry. 

Eigen  ferch  Garadawc  ap  Bran  ap  Llyr  Llediaeth,  gwraig  Sall- 
awc  Arglwydd  Garth  Mathrin. 

Lleorwg  Sant  a  elwir  Lleufer  Mawr  ap  Goel  ap  Gyllin  ap  Ga- 
ndawc  ap  Bran  ap  Llyr  Llediaeth  a  ddanfones  at  y  Pab  Elidir  i 
geisiaw  Escyb  i  ddodi  bedydd  ar  a  gredynt  i  Grist  o  G^nedl  y 
Cymry. 

Medwy  sant  a  fu'*n  gennad  dros  Leurwg  ap  Goel  ap  Gyllîn  at  y 
Pab  Elidir.  ag  efe  a  wnaethpwyd  yn  Escob  yn  Bhufain  ei  Eglwys 
ef  Llanfedwy  ym  Morganwc. 

Elfan  Sant  a  fu'*n  gennad  dros  Leurwg  Sant,  at  y  Pab  Elidur 
ag  a  wnaethpwyd  yn  Escob  yn  Bhufain  ei  Eglwys  ef  Ynys  y 
Fallon. 

Dyfan  Sant  a  wnaethpwyd  yn  Escob  yn  Bhufain  fal  y  gallai 
fedyddiaw  a  gredynt  i  Grist  o  Genedl  y  Cymry.  ei  Eglwys  ef 
Caer  Dyf  a>  Merthyr  Dyfan  lie  ai  lias  gan  y  Paganiait 

Ffagan  Sant  gwr  6*t  Eidal  a  ddaeth  yn  Escob  i  Gymru  o  anfon- 
lad  y  Pab  Elidir  ei  Eglwys  Llansantfiagan. 

Gwerydd  Sant  ap  Gadwn  ap  Genau  ap  Eudaf  o  wehelyth  Bran 
fendigaid  ap  Llyr  Llediaith,  ei  Eglwys  ef  Llanwerydd,  honno  yw 
San  Dunwyd. 

Gwynno  Sant  o  wehelyth  Bran  Fendigaid  ap  Llyr  Llediaith 
ei  Eglwys  ef  Llanwynno. 

Gadfrawd  Sant  ac  Escob  ap  Gadfan  ap  Eudaf  ap  Goel  ap  Gyllin 
ap  Garadawc  ap  Bran  Fendigaid  ci  Eglwys  ef  Gaerllion  a>  Wysg. 

Tydwal  Sant  ap  Goriuwr  ap  Gadfan  ap  Eudaf  ap  Goel  ap 
Gyllin  ap  Bran  Fendigaid 


136  ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN. 

Ifor  ap  Tudwal  ap  Oorinwr,  ut  Supra  yn  Lloegr  y  mae  ei  Eg- 
Iwys  ef. 

Gwrmael  ap  Gadfrawd  Escob  ap  GadUEUi  ap  Eudaf  Ei  Eglwys  ef 
Caerloyw. 

Cadgyfarch  Sant  ag  Escob  brawd  Gwnnael  ei  Eglwys  of  y 
Brynn  Buga. 

Rhystud  hen  Esgob  o  Gaerllion  ar  Wysg  o  wehelyth  Bran 
fendigaid  ap  Llyr. 

Gloffan  Sant  o  wehelyth  Bran  ap  Llyr  Llediaith  ei  Eglwys  ef 
yn  Nyfed. 

Gynneddaf  hen  Sant  gwr  o'^r  Israel  a  ddaeth  yn  escob  at  Len- 
rwg  Sant  ap  Goel  ap  Gyllin  o  Bufain. 

Mabon  Wynn  ap  Glas,  ap  Glassawc,  ap  Goedwallawn  ap  God 
ap  Gyllin  ap  Garadawc  ap  Bran  Fendigaid. 

Glassawc  ap  Goedwallawn,  ut  Supra^  yng  Ngwynedd  y  €K>rwedd 
ei  Eglwys  Llanynglassawc. 

Melydd  ap  Gynfelydd  o  wehelyth  Bran  Fendigaid  ap  Llyr 
Llediaith,  yn  Llundain  y  mae  ei  Eglwys  lie  bu  yn  Escob. 

Nyniaw  Sant  ac  Escob  Brenin  Gh^ent  a  Garihmathrin,  ei  E^ 
iwys  ef  yn  y  Gogledd, 

Teithfalch  ap  Nynniaw,  a  elwir  hefyd  Tudfwlch  ap  Nynniaw, 
ei  Eglwys  ef  Llandudfwlch  yng  Ngwyr. 

Tewdric  ap  Teithfalch  Brenin  Gwent  a  Garth  Mathrin,  a  las 
gan  y  Gwyddyl  ym  Merthyr  Tewdric  yng  Ngwent  lie  mae  ei 
Eglwys  ef. 

Meyric  ap  Tewdric  a  las  gan  y  GhfP^ddyl  yng  Ngheredigion  Ue 
doded  Eglwys  iddaw. 

Morgan  ap  Adras  ap  Meyric  ap  Tewdric  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  a 
Ghor  ym  Margam  lie  y  gorwedd.  efe  a  elwir  Morgan  Moiganwg  o 
gyfriiuich  (Quaere — ^what  does  this  mean  ?    lolo  Morganwg.) 

Geraint  ap  Erbin  ap  Gystenin  Gomer  Arglwydd  Gerein¥rg.  yn 
Henffordd  ei  Eglwys. 

Cyngar,  ^ 

r^      /Í     1     4  /•     Meibion  Geraint  ab  Erbin. 
Gaw  Cawlwyd,  i 

Selyf.  ) 

Gaw  Gawlwyd  ab  Geraint  ab  Erbin  oedd  Arglwydd  Gwm  Caw- 
lwyd yn  y  Gogledd,  ag  efe  a  yrrwyd  oi  wlad  gan  y  Gwyddyl 
Ffichti  ag  a  ddaeth  i  Dwr  Gelyn  ym  Mon,  a  llyma  enwan  Plant 
Gaw  o  Dwr  Gelyn  a  fuant  yn  Seintiau. 

1.  Garhai:    2.  Gildas:    3  Cewydd :   4.  Peirio:    5.  Gyhelyn: 


ÀCHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  137 

6.  Annef:  7,  Cof,  8.  Gwrthilî:  9.  Cynddilîc:  lO.Samswn;  11 
Huail:  12.  Gallgof:  13.  Eigrawn.  14.  Maelon:  15.  Aidan  y 
Coed  Aur:  16.  Eîgrad:  17.  Idwal  Dirinic.  18.  Cyngan  foel: 
19.  Cywellawc :  20.  Peithini. 

Genydd^  \ 

Gwynnawc,        f      Meîbîon  Gildas  ap  y  Oaw,  a  elwir  Gildas 

Nwython,  ^         y  Coed  Aur 

Madawc  Fardd.  ) 

^wFyrwaUt      l     Meibion  Nwythonap  Gildas  ap  y  Caw 
-nx.  1  ^  Gwm  Cawlwyd 

Egwad  Sant,  ap  Cynddìlic  ap  Nwython  ap  Gildas  y  coed  aur. 
yn  Ystrad  Tywi  y  mae. 

Ffili  Sant  ap  Cennydd  ap  y  Coed  aur,  yng  Ngwyr  y  mae. 

Gwrîn  Sant  ap  Cynddîlic,  ap  Nwython,  ap  y  Coed  Aur.  Tref- 
wrín  a  elwir  Gwrinstwn. 

Ufelwyn  ap  Cennydd  ap  Gildas  ap  y  Caw  o  Gwra  Cawlwyd, 
escob  Llan  Daf. 

Tudwal  Mwyniawr  ap  Cadfan  ap  Cynan  ap  Eudaf  o  Wehelyth 
Bran  ap  Llyr. 

Tegwen  ferch  Tewdric  ap  Teithfalch,  gwraig  Gallgu  Bieddawc 
Tad  Elian  Ceimiad. 

Eldat  Sant  ac  Escob  ab  Arth  ab  Arthwg  ap  Cystenin  Gomer 
ap  Cynfar  ap  Tudwal  Mwynfawr  ap  Cynan  ap  Eudaf  o  wehelyth 
Bran  Fendigaid  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Cynan  ap  Eudaf  o  wehelyth  Bran  fendigaid  a  fu'n  escob  yn 
Llandain  amser  Macsen  Wledig. 

Marchell  ferch  Tewdric  ap  Teithfalch  Brenin  Gwent  a  Garth 
Mathrin,  gwraig  Anllech  Goronawc  a  mam  Brychan  Brychein- 
iawc. 

Dygain,     ^ 

Ysown,       V     Tri  meib  Cystenin  Gorner, 

Erbin         j 

Rhun,  ^ 

Tyfaelawc,  f      Meibion  Euryn  y  coed  aur  a  elwir  Gil- 

Gwynno,  T  das  Sant  a  Gildas  Broffwyd. 

Cynddylan  Sant      y 

Gwythelin  Sant  ac  Escob  ab  Teithfalch  ap  Nynniaw  o  wehelyth 
Bran  Fendigaid  ni  wyddys  ba  le  yr  oedd  yn  Escob. 

Cyhylyn  Sant  ap  Tewdric  ap  Teithfalch  o  wehelyth  Bran  ap 
Llyr,  a  fu  yn  Escob  yn  Llundain  amser  Cystenin  Llydaw. 


138  ACHAU   SAINT   YNY8  PRYDAIN. 

Macsen  Wledig  ap  Llywelyn  larll  Cemiw,  ap  TegCan  ap  De- 
heiifraint,  ap  Tudbwyll,  ap  Eurben,  ap  Gradd,  ap  Bhydeyrn,  ap 
Eurdeyrn,  ap  Gyndeyrn,  ap  Euddos,  ap  Afallach,  ap  Aflech,  ap 
Lludd,  ap  Beli  mawr,  Macsen  Wledig  a  fu**!!  Frenin  Unben  Ynya 
Prydaîn,  ac  Amherawdr  Bhufain  ai  Lys  yng  Nghaerllion  ar 
Wysg,  ac  efe  oedd  y  cyntaf  er  ym  amser  Dyfhwal  Moelmnd  a 
gynhaliawdd  Llys  unben  yno,  a  chyntaf  oedd  ef  a  ddodes  Escyb 
Dyledogion  yn  Ynys  Prydain  a  thiroedd  a  chyfoeiheu  iddynt.  a 
phedwar  maib  a  fu  iddaw  nid  amgen, 

Gwythyr,  x     Eraill  a  ddywedaint  fod  iddaw  &b  arall 

Owain  Finddu,       f         sef  Pebli  yr  hwn  y  sydd  Sant  yn  y 
Cystenin,  t         Gaer  yn  Arfon  eraill  eisioes  a  ddywed- 

Ednyfed,  ^         ant   mai    Mab   Owain    finddu    oedd 

Peblic.  A  UymaV  Seint  a  ddeuant  o  Facsen  Wledic  nid  amgen. 

Ednyfed  ap  Macsen  Wledic  Brenin  Gwent. 

Dyfnwal  Hen  Brenin  Gwent  ap  Ednyfed  ap  Macsen  Wledic. 

Peblic  Sant  ap  Owain  Finddu  ap  Macsen  Wledic  ei  Eglwys  ef 
yn  y  Gaer  yn  Arfon. 

Madawc  ap  Owain  Finddu  ap  Macsen  Wledic. 

Ceinwr  Sant  o  Gor  Illtud,  ap  Cedig  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen  ap  Ed- 
nyfed, ap  Macsen  Wledic. 

Gafran  ap  Aeddan  Fradawc  ap  Dyfiiwal  Hen  ap  Ednyfed  ap 
Macsen  Wledic,  ei  wraig  ef  Lleian  ferch  Frychan  Brycheiniawc. 

Mordaf  ap  Serfan  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen  ap  Ednyfed  ap  Macsen 
Wledic. 

Elidir  Mwynfawr  ap  Gorwst  Briodawr  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen,  ap 
Ednyfed  ap  Macsen  Wledic. 

Rhydderch,  ap  Tudwal  Tudclyt  ap  Cedig  ap  Dyfhwal  Hen,  ap 
Ednyfed  ap  Macsen  Wledic. 

Ceidiaw  ap  Ynyr  Gwent  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen,  ap  Ednyfed  ap 
Macsen  Wledic,  A  Madren  ferch  Gorthefyr  Fendigaid  ei  fam. 

Cadwr  ap  Ednyfed  ap  Macsen  Wledig  a  fu  Escob  yn  Ynys 
Prydain,  a  Brawd  Dyfnwal  Hen  ydoedd.  ac  yn  byw  yng  Nghaer- 
llion aV  Wysg. 

Gwyddnaw  Garanir  ap  Gorboniawn  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen  Brenin 
Gwent  ap  Ednyfed  ap  Macsen  Wledic. 

Elffin  ap  Gwyddnaw  Garanir  ap  Gorboniawn  ap  Dyfnwal 
Hen  Brenin  Gwent  ap  Ednyfed  ap  Macsen  Wledic. 

Nudd  Hael  ab  Senyllt  ap  Cedic  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen  ap  Ednyfed 
ap  Macsen  Wledic. 


ACHAU  SAINT  YNYS  PRYDAIN.  139 

Cynheiddon  ap  Ynyr  Gtwent  ap  Dyfiiwal  Hen,  ap  Ednyfed  ap 
Macsen  Wledic. 

Dingad, 

Owrtherin, 

Baglan,  I   Meibîon  Nudd  Hael,  ap  Senyllt,  ap  Cedig  ap 

Llenddad,        i         Dyfnwal   Hen,    ap    Ednyfed    ap    Macsen 

Tegwyn  >        Wledig.  ac  Arglwydd  y  Brynn  Buga. 

Tyfriawe, 

Bar  ap  Nudd 

Tegwynn, 

Llidnerth, 

Eleri  ferch  Nudd  Hael  ab  Senyllt  ap  Oedic  ap  Dyfnwal  Hen 
ap  Ednyfed  ap  Macsen  Wledic, 

Melangell  ferch  Oyfwlch  addwyn  Fab  Tudwal  Tudclyt  fab 
Gedic  fab  Dyfnwal  Hen,  fab  Ednyfed,  fab  Macsen  Wledic. 

Mygnach  Sant  o  Gaer  Leon  ap  Mydnaw  ap  Qwron  ap  Arch, 
ap  Gh^rddyled,  ap  Eginir,  ap  Owain  Finddu,  ap  Macsen  Wledic. 

Uyma  etto  eraill  o  Seiniau,  o  Welygordd  Bran  Fendigaid,  ap 
Llyr  Llediaith. 

Selyf  ap  Q^raint  ap  Cystenyn  Gomer  ap  Cynfar  ap  Tudwal 
Mwynfawr  ap  CynjHi  ap  Eudaf  O  wehelyth  Bran  Fendigaid  ap 
Llyr  Llediaith. 

Cybi  Sant  ag  Escob  ap  Selyf  ap  Geraint,  tit  mpra^  Archescob 
Gwynedd,  a  Thonwen  ferch  Ynyr  o  Gaer  Gawch  ei  fam. 

Pawl  Sant  ac  escob  o  Gor  lUtud  ap  Meyric  ap  Tewdric,  efe  a 
wnaeth  Gor  He  mae  y  Ty  Gwynn  ar  Daf  yn  Nyfed. 

Bhun  ap  Euryn  y  Coed  aur  ap  Caw  o  Dwr  Celyn^y  sydd  Sant 
yn  Ystumllwynarth. 

Cynddilic  ap  Nwython  ap  Euryn  y  Coed  aur,  y  sydd  Sant  yng 
Ngwlad  yr  Haf. 

Elfod  Sant  ac  Escob  o  Gor  Cybi,  ac  Archescob  Gwynedd,  ap 
Goleudrem  ap  Glassar,  ap  Geraint,  ap  Nynniaw,  ap  Cynddilic,  ap 
Nwython  ap  Gildas  Broffwyd  ap  Caw  o  Gwm  Cawlwyd  a  elwir 
CSaw  o  Dwr  Celyn  ym  Mon. 

Cain  Santes  ferch  y  Caw  o  Dwr  Celyn,  ei  heglwys  yn  Ystrad 
Tywi, 

Glassawc  ap  Glassar  ap  Geraint  ap  Nynniaw  ap  Cynddilic  ap 
Nwython  ap  Gildas  BroflFwyd  ap  Caw  o  Gwm  Cawlwyd,  ei 
Eglwys  ef  yn  Arllechwedd.  efe  a  fu'n  Escob  yng  Nghaer  Gybi 


140 


ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN. 


ag  a  ddodes  diroedd  at  Fangor  Deinioel  yng  Ngwynedd  uwch 
Conwy. 

Dolgain  ferch  Gildas  j  Goed  aur  ap  Caw  arglwydd  Gwm  Gaw- 
Iwyd. 


Brychan  Brycheiniawc  ap  Anllech  Gbronawc  Brenin  y  Wer- 
ddon  a  March  ferch  Tewdric  ap  Teithfalch  Brenin  Gwent  a 
Garthmathrin  ei  fam. 

Llyma  enwau  Plant  Brychan  Brycheiniawc,  enwau  ei  feibion 

ydynt, 


1.  Oynawc  Ferthyr, 

9.  Oynbryd, 

18.  Mathaem, 

2.  Oyfle^vyr, 

10.  Dyfhan, 

19.  aedwyn. 

3,  Dingad  Arglwydd 

11.  Rhaint, 

20.  Cynin, 

Brynn  Buga, 

12.  Pascen, 

21.  Hychan, 

4.  PabiaU, 

13.  Oynfran, 

22.  Nefydd, 

6.  Neffei, 

14.  Clydawc, 

23,  Llecheo, 

6.  Rhun, 

15.  Cadawc, 

24,  Cai, 

7.  Dogfan, 

16.  Gerwyn, 

26.  Dyfric. 

8.  Arthen, 

17.  Rhawin, 

Enwau  Merched  Brychan  Brych 

einiawc  ydynt, 

1.  Gwawr, 

11.  Gwladus, 

21.  Tudfyl, 

2.  Gwenfrewi, 

12.  Gwenddydd, 

22.  Gwawrddydd, 

3.  Fieri, 

13.  Dwynwen, 

23,  Clydai 

4.  Gwrgon, 

14.  Hawystl, 

24.  Genedlon, 

5.  Mechell, 

15.  Rhieingan, 

25.  Arianwen 

6.  Lleian, 

16.  Goleuddydd, 

26.  Tybieu, 

7.  Nefyn, 

17.  Tydyeu, 

27-  Gwen, 

8,  Ceindrych, 

18,  Cymmorth, 

28.  Anna. 

9.  Eluned, 

19,  Tanglwst, 

10.  Enfail, 

20.  Ceinwen, 

Nefydd  Sant  ap  Rhun  Dremrudd  ap  Brychan  Brycheiniawc. 

Nefydd  ap  Nefydd  ail  ap  Rhun  Dremrudd. 

Tewdwr  Brycheiniawc  ap  Nefydd  ap  Nefydd  ail  ap  Khun 
Dremrydd. 

Andras  ap  Rhun  dremrydd  ap  Brychan  Brycheiniawc.  Uan 
Andras  ym  mhlwyf  Teilaw  ym  Morganwg. 

Brynach  Wyddel  Periclawr  Brychan  Brycheiniog,  ei  wraig  ef 
Cymmorth  ferch  Brychan.  ei  Eglwys  ym  Morganwg. 


ACHAU    SAINT    YNY8   PRYDAIN.  141 

QeTwjn  ap  Brynach  Wyddel  a  Ohymmorth  feroh  Frychan 
ei  fam. 

ry^  '     Ì      Merched  Brynach   Wyddel    a    Ohymmorth 


^       ,,.  r         ferch  Brychan  eu  mam. 


Llyma  Wehelyth  Ynyr  o  Gaer  Gawch. 

Ynyr  Sant  o  Gaer  Gawch  ap  Gwyndec  ap  Saethenin  Frenin  o 
Faes  Gwyddno  a  oresgynnes  y  mor  ei  dir,  ap  Seîthenyn  Hen  ap 
Flaws  hen  Brenin  Dyfed  ap  Gwrtherin  Tywysawc  o  Bufain  a 
yrrodd  y  Gwyddyl  o  Ddyfed  a  Gwyr. 

Meyrig  Brenin  Dyfed  ap  Gwrthelin  ap  Eudaf  ap  Flaws  hen 
Brenin  Dyfed,  ap  Gwrtherin  Pendefic  o  Bufain  a  yrrodd  y  Gwy- 
ddyl o  dir  Gwyr  a  Dyfed. 

Sadwm  Hen  fab  Ynyr  o  Graer  Gŵwch,  ei  Eglwys  ef  yn  Emlyn, 

Fatric  Sant  fab  Gwyndec  a  Brawd  Ynyr  Gaer  Gawch. 

Sadymin  ap  Sadwm  hen  ap  Ynyr  Gaer  Gawch. 

Nonn  Fendigaid  Mam  Dewi  Sant  ferch  Ynyr  Gaer  Gawch  ac 
Anna  ferch  Uthur  Brendragon  Amherawdr  Ynys  Frydain  ail 
wraig  oedd  hi  i  Ynyr  Gaer  G^wch  ag  a  f u  cyn  no  hynny  yn  wraig 
Amwn  Ddu  ap  Emyr  Llydaw. 

Banhadlen  ferch  Ynyr  Gaer  Gawch  a  gwraig  Dirdan.  Fendefig 
o>  Eidal. 

Elfyw  ap  Dirdan  a  Banhadlen  ferch  Ynyr  Caer  Gawch  ei  fam. 

Anna  Santes  merch  Uthyr  Bendragon,  a  mam  Dewi  Sant,  a 
chyn  o  hynny  hi  a  fu  wraig  Amwn  Ddu  Brenin  Grawec  ap  Emyr 
Llydaw  a  mab  iddi  a  fu  o>  Amwn  hwnnw,  ai  Enw  Samson  Sant 
o  Gor  lUtud. 

Saethenin  frenin  o  Faes  Gwyddno  a  oregynnes  y  mor  ei  dir  ap 
Seithin  hen  ap  Flaws  hen  Brenin  Dyfed  ap  Gwrtherin  Fendefig  o 
Rofain  a  ddaeth  i  Yrru'r  Gwyddyl  o  Dir  Gwyr  a  Dyfed, 

Gwyndeg,  \ 

Senewyr,  \    j^^jj^j^^^    Seithenin   ab    Seithin,  frenin   o 

Arwystl  ixlofi,       I        ^^^  Gwyddno  a  oresgynnes  y  Mor  ei 

^^'  I         Dir.  a  myned  a  wnaethant  yn  Saint  ym 

u  c  y  ,  \         Mangor  Fawr  ym  Maelawc  yng  Nglan 

Gw'^'edL      \     i^yf^^^y'  y^  s^"^^^  ^^^^^  ^y^g'" 

h3io  1        ^^^^'^  ^P  ^^^^^^  Deyrnllwc. 

Tudur,  / 

Ynyr, 


142  ACHAU   SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN- 

Meiryn  ap  Meirjni,  ap  Seithenin  o  Faes  Ghvyddno. 

Tyneio,       >^ 

Tyrawc,       i     Plant  Arwystl  Gloff,  ap  Seithenin  frenin  a 

Tydiaw,      f         fuant  gyda  Deinioel  ym  Mangor  Maelawr,  a 

Tefrydawc,  \        gwedi  torrid  Gor  honno  hwy  a  aethant  ym 

Tudur,        L  Mangor  Gadfan  yn  Enlli,  eu  mam  hwy  oedd 

Dihaer,        i         Tywanwedd  merch  Amlawdd  Wledic. 

Marchell,    ^ 

Ceithaw  Sant  ap  Tudur  ap  Arwystl  gloflF,  yng  Ngheredigion  ei 

Eglwys  ef 

Sawyl  Felyn  Sant,  ap  Bledri  Hir,  ap  Meyric  Brenin  Dyfed.  ei 

Eglwys  ef  Llansawyl  yn  Emlyn  uwch  Cuch. 

Meyric  Brenin  Dyíed  oedd  un  o'*r  pedwar  Brenin  a  ddygant  y 

Cleddyf  Aur  o  flaen  yr  Amherawdr  Arthur  ar  y  Tair  Qwyl  Ar- 

bennic  ag  ymmhob  gwyl  a  gwledd  gorfoledd  ac  Urddas 

Llyma  enwau  Plant  y  Caw  Cawllog, 

1.  Oeidiaw,  2.  Blenwyd,  3  Afarwy,  4,  Auryn  y  coed  Aur. — 6, 
Peirio,  6.  Gwrddelw,   7.  Gwrddwdw,  8,  Afrogwy,  9.  Celyn  Moel, 

10.  Aeddan,  sef  oeddent  deg 

Llyfr  Thos.  Truman,  y  Du  Mawr.  ag  mewn  Llyfr  arall  iddo 
fal  hynn, 

1.  Peirio,  2  Ceidio,  3  Afarwy,  4  Blenwyd  6  Gildas  y  coed  aur, 
6  Gwrddelw,  7,  Cyhelyn  foel  8.  Oennydd,  9,  Eîgrawn,  10  Afrog- 
wy,  11  Gallgof,  12,  Oilydd  13  Dirinic.  14.  Caffo,  16,  Huail, 
16,  Aeddan. 

O  Lyfr  Mr.  Llwyd  o  Fewmares,  fel  y  canlyn, 

1  Peirio,  2  Oennydd,  3,  Samson,  4  Cyngar,  6,  Huail, — 6,  Cy- 
helyn Fardd,  7,  Gallgof.  8,  Eigrawn,  9,  Gwrddelw,  10,  Gilydd, 

11,  Dirinic,  12,  Cewydd,  13,  Aneuryn  y  Coed  Aur,  14,  Gynwrig, 
15  Oof  (Coff,) 

Ag  fel  y  Oanlyn  o  Lyfr  Thom  Hopcin  o  Langrallo. 


1,  Peirio, 

7,  Dirinic, 

13,  Eigrawn, 

2,  Gallgof, 

8,  Cewydd, 

14,  Cyhelyn  ftudd. 

3,  Eugrad, 

9,  Maelog, 

16,  Cyngar, 

4,  Cenydd, 

10,  Gwrddyly, 

16,  Samson, 

5,  Aneurin, 

11    Cilydd, 

17,  Canna  fercli  j 

6,  Caffo, 

12    Huail, 

Caw. 

ACHAU    SAINT   YNYS   PRYDAIN.  143 

Tad  y  rhai  hyn  sef  y  Oaw  o  Brydyn,  a  yrrwyd  oi  wlad  gan  y 
Gwyddyl  Ffichti,  ag  Arglwydd  Cwm  Oawlwyd  oedd  efe,  a  dyfod 
efe  ai  blant  i  Gymru  a  wnaethaut  rhai  at  Arthur,  ag  efe  a  roddes 
iddynt  diroedd,  a  rhai  o  honynt  ja  aethant  yn  Saint  yng  Nghor 
Illtad  ag  ynghor  Teilaw  Ag  yng  Nghor  Oattwg.  eraill  a  aethant 
at  Faelgwn  Gwynedd,  ag  efe  a  roddes  iddynt  diroedd  ym  Men 
nid  amgen  na  Thwr  Gelyn  ag  o  hynny  allan  Caw  o  Dwr  Gelyn  ai 
gelwid  ef. 

Plant  Caw  o  Brydyn  o  Lyfr  Mr.  Davies  Bangor. 

1,  Dirinic  6,  Cynwric,  9,  Huail,  13,  Chnrddelw, 

2,  Cilydd,  6,  Gwydion,  10,  Gildas,  14,  Eigrawn, 

3,  Bangawr,  7,  Samson,  11,  Oyhelyn,  15,  Aneurin, 

4,  Ustic,  8,  Oyngar,  12,  Gallgof,  16   Caen. 

Merched  Caw, 

Oywyllog, 

Peithian,  ^     yn  Sir  Fon  y  maent  yn  gorwedd. 


, } 


Gwenafwy 

Llyfir  Llanganna,  aV  pethau  hynn  ynddo  yn  amgen  nag  y  sydd 
yn  Llyfr  Thomas  Truman  eithr  Cytuno  ag  ef  ymhob  peth  arall, 
on  o  Lyfrau  Tre  Brynn  ydyw  ef, 

LlymaV  Esgobion  a  fuant  yn  dadlu  ag  Awstin  Escob  y  Saeson 
ar  Ian  Hafren  yn  y  Denau  nid  amgen,  Esgob  Caerffawydd  a  elwir 
Henffordd,  2,  Escob  Teilaw,  3  Escob  Padam — 4?  Escob  Bangor — 
5  Escob  Elwy — 6.  Esgob  y  Wig  7  Escob  Morganwg. 

(Llanganna) 

Saith  Cangell  oeddynt  ym  Mangor  is  y  Coed  a  300  o  wyr  go- 
lychwydol  o  fenaich  gwyr  Lien  ymhob  Cangell,  a  moli  Duw  Dydd 
a  noe  heb  orphwys — (Llanganna) 

Endwy  ap  Hywel  Farchawc  ap  Hywel  Feic  ap  Emyr  Llydaw. 

Meigan  ap  Patric  ap  Cyffylloc,  ap  Gannon  ap  Ctoronwy  o 
Wareddawg  Sant  o  Gor  Beuno, 

mewn  Llyfr  arall  £al  hynn. 

Meigan  ap  —  ^ 

^~-.  ^«      ^ >  Goronwy  o  Wareddawc  Saint  o  Gor  Beuuo. 

Ghitfmon  ap  —  j 


144 


ACHAU   SAINT   YNY8   PRYDAIN. 


mewn  arall  fal  hynn, 

Meigan  ap  Gronwy  o  Wareddawc, 
Patric  ap  Gronwy  o  Wareddawc, 
Cyffyllawc  ap  Gronwy  o  Wareddawc, 
G^rmon  ap  Gronwy  o  Wareddawc. 


Oeinwen  Santes 
Ffinan  o  Gor  Seirioel 

Trystan, — 
Llibio, 

Machraith, — 
Rhuddlad— 
Rhwydrys, — 
Llwyfo. — 

Arfon, 
Deiniolen, 
Melldeym, — Llŷn, 
EUdau       Ì  Dyffryn 
Cynhafal  j   Clwyd, 
Oyfin 

Ceredigion 
Dygwy— 


a  aeth  yn  Escob  i''r 
Garannawc, 

Dyfed 
Ystudwal, 
Ystinau, 
Elfyw, 
Hywel, 
Dylwyf, 
Bheithion, 
Satymin, 

Emlyn 
Gwrda — Llanwrda 

Elfed 
Llawddawc 


Gt)gledd, 

Gedweli, 
Gynheiddan, 
Darawc, 

Biychan, 
Gwen&el, 
Elwy, 
EUi. 

Gwent 
Gwarwg 
Henwg 
Ffwyst, 
Gofor 
Mablu    Ì 
mablen  j 


Illtud  Sant  a  wnaeth  yn  ael  Hodnant  wyth  ugain  cell  ag  wyth 
fal  y  dywed  y  Prydydd 


Gwnaeth  Illtud  Sant 
Ar  Ian  Hodnant 
Wyth  ugain  Cor 
Ag  wyth  ragor 
Lie  ddanneddaint 
Ddwyfil  0  Saint 
Yn  Bucheddu 
Wrth  ffydd  lesu, 


Cedwaint  o  neb 
Coel  Duwioldeb 
Dirwest  unpryd 
Gweddi  Penyd 
Elusennau 
a  Chardodau, 
Ag  yn  en  mysg 
Cynnal  addysg 


Arall. 


Ylltud  a  wnaeth  wyth  ugain  ag  wyth  dy  Cylfar  ag  ynddynt 
ddwy  fil  o  Saint  a  dwyfolion  yn  cynnal  gwybodau  Cnstnogolion  a 
daionus,  fal  y  dywed  y  Prydydd 


ACHAU   SAINT  YNYS   PRYDAIN,  145 

Brychan  a  gafas  Gbrth  Mathrin  ac  ai  gelwis  oi  henw  ei  hun 
Brycheiniawc 

Gwynlliw  ap  Glywis  a  gafas  Gantref  Llinwent,  ac  ai  gelwis 
Gwynllwg  oi  enw  ei  hun. 

Glywys  ap  Tegid  a  gafÌM  Glywyseg  ac  ai  gelwis  felly  oi  enw  ei 
hun,  Lie  mae  gwelygordd  Elystan  Glodrydd. 

Morgan  ap  Arthur  a  gafas  (îantref  Gwent  a  (îantref  Essyllt,  a 
Gorwenydd,  a  Bheged  ag  ai  gelwis  oi  enw  çi  hunan  Morganwg. 

Gadfan  Llydaw  a  wnaeth  Fangor  Enlli,  Ue  maeV  Fonachlog 
yn  awr. 

Ghiryddno  Gbranir  a  G^raint  ap  Garanawc  meibion  Garannawc 
ap  Cleddyfgar  ap  Oynan  Glodrydd  ap  Cadell  Deymllwg  a  or- 
e^ynes  y  Mor  eu  Tir 

Gleddigar  ap  Gyniarch  ap  Bhychwain.  ' 

Cyndaf  Sant  Gwr  o>  Israel  a  ddaeth  gyda  Gtarmon  Vr  Ynys 
honn.  eraill  a  wedant  gyda  Ghadfan, 

Arwystl  gloff  ap  Seithenin  o  faes  Gwyddnaw, 

Tudur  ap  Arwystl  gloff  ap  Seithenin  yn  Nargwain. 

Annan  Llawforwyn  Madrun  ferch  Gwrthefyr  Fendigaid. 

Cynhawal  Sant  ap  Elgud  ap  Gadfarch  ap  Garadawc  Freichfras. 

Mor  ap  Pascen  ap  Urien  Rheged  yn  Llanfor  ym  Mhenllyn. 

Llawdden  Sant  o  Ynys  Eiddin  yn  y  Gogledd. 

Gadell  ap  Urien  Rion  ap  Llywarch  Hen  Sant  o  Got  Gattwg  yn 
Llangadell. 

Lleuddad  Llydaw,  ap  Hywel  ap  Emyr  Llydaw. 

Lleuddad  Gwent,  ap  Dingad. 

Llynab  fab  Alan  fab  Emyr  Llydaw, 

Cirig  Sant  ap  Urien  ap  Gynfarch,  (in  a/,  ap  Arawn  ap 
Cynfarch) 

fklem  ap  Nudd  ap  Beli  ap  Maelgwn  Gwynedd, 

Teilaw  ap  Eusyssyllt  ap  Hiddyn  Ddu  ap  Geredig  ap  Gynedda 
Wledig,  Sant  o  Gor  Gattwg. 

Concilium  Arelatense  in  Gallia  Anno  814.  Elborius  Escob 
Caerefrawc,  Rhysttd  Esgob  Llundain,  ac  Adelffin  Escob  Gaer- 
llion  ar  Wysg 


146 


ACHAU 

SAINT   YNY8 

PRYDA1N-. 

Saist 

ym  Morganwg 

a  Gh^ent 

Cennydd, 
Tewdrîc, 

Mabon, 
Tewdric, 

Gwynno, 
Madawc, 

Cíwg, 

Nonn  (Gŵyr) 

Samled, 

lago, 

Cewydd, 

Bhidian 

Isan, 

Tybíeu, 

Garai, 

Elldeyrn, 

Cenwyn, 

Garan, 

Ymherawdr  Jovanus  anno  863.  Llythyr  Athftnaains  atto  yn 
son  am  ffydd  y  GjmTjfal  y  Brutaniaid) 

Morgan  yr  Heretic  405  Ymhrydaîn  425. 

Garmon  a  Lupus  427. 

Mor  ap  Moríen,  a  ddug  fedydd  a  chred  ag  ni  ddygai  fedydd  ar 
Dir  Gwynedd,  sef  y  cyntaf  oedd  Gwydion  ap  Don,  Brenin  Llych- 
lyn  a  f u  yn  frenîn  ar  Wlad  Wynedd  amser  y  bu  y  Ghvyddelod  y 
gwladychu  Tir  Gtwynedd,  a  gwedi  hynny  aeth  Mor  i  Bn£ûn  a 
Chaersalem.  Garmon  sant  a  —    —    —    — 


MAN-GOPION 

AM    RAI    O  SAINT  YNYS  PEYDAIN,  0  WAHANOL  FAN-YSGEIFAU 
ANGHY8SYLLTEDIG. 


Naw  Qwehelyth  Saint  Ynys  Prydain,  ac  o  Genedl  y  Cymry 
ydd  hanoeddyDt  oil. 

1,  Bran  ap  Llyr  Llediaith,  ac  efe  oedd  y  cyntaf,  am  hynny  y 
gelwid  ef  Bran  Fendigaid,  a  Bendigeidfran. 

2,  Macsen  Wledig  ab  Llwybrawd,  ai  wehelyth  ef  a  fuant,  yn 
saint  a  gwyddys  hyd  heddiw  y  Ueoedd  y  buant  an  heglwysau. 

3,  Brychan  Brycheiniawc  ai  fam  ef  oedd  Marchell  ferch  Tew- 
dric  Brenin  Morganwg  ai  wraig  gyntaf  ef  oedd  gyfnither  iddaw 
nid  amgen  no  Bhybrawst  ferch  Meiric  ap  Tewdric,  Brenin  Mor- 
ganwc  a  gwent  ac  Enas. 

4,  Coel  Godebawc  Brenin  Ynys  Prydain  ac  efe  a  wnaeth  Eg- 
Iwys  yn  Llandaf. 

5,  Owehelyth  Dy&wal  Hen,  a  faant  yn  Saint  ynghymm  lie 
mae  eu  heglwysau  yn  gadwedigion  dan  eu  henwau. 

6,  Caw  o  Brydyn  efe  a  ddaeth  i  Gymry  ac  a  gafodd  Dwr  Celyn, 
ym  Mon,  ac  or  lie  hwnnw  ydd  hanoedd  ei  fam  a  bawl  a  chyfiawn- 
der  iddaw  ar  Dir  a  Daear  yno. 

7,  Emyr  Llydaw  a  hanoeddawdd  parth  ach  a  gwehelyth  o  Ynys 
Prydain,  nid  Amgen  nag  o  Gynan  Meredawc  Tywysawc  Cernyw, 
ag  ef  sef  y  Cynan  hwnnw  a  gafas  Gyfoeth  a  thiroedd  gan  Facsen 
Wledic  yn  Llydaw  He  y  gwledychawdd  ef.  ai  wehelyth  ef  a 
ddaethant  yn  Saint  i  Ynys  Prydain  ac  a  fuant  yn  ynys  Enlli  yn 
Gyff  Saint  Gwynedd  Ue  mae  Uawer  o''u  heglwysau. 

8,  Cynedda  Wledig  Brenin  Ynys  Prydain  ac  yng  Nghaer 
liiwelydd  ei  Lys  Cynnal. 

9,  Helic  ap  Glannawc  o  Dyno  Helic  yn  y  Gogledd  a  ynnillawdd 
mor  ei  dir  ef  a'^i  wehelyth  a  fuant  yn  saint  yng  Ngwynedd,  lie  mae 
Ilawer  o^'u  heglwysau.  Eraill  a  ddywedant  mai  nawfed  gwehelyth 
Saint  oeddent  Gwehelyth  Gwrtheym  Gwrthenau,  ag  yng  Ngwent 
Ilawer  o''a  heglwysau. 


148  MAN-GOFION. 

O  Lyfr  Sion  Bradford,  a  gafoedd  ef,  meddai,  o  Lyfr  yn  Haw  Wat- 
kin  Pywel  0  Ben  y  Fai,  ynghylch  y  flwyddyn.  1600. 

Bleiddan  Sant  o  Dir  Gal  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Llanfieiddan  favrae 
un  Llanfieiddan  fach.  Brawd  ffydd  ydoedd  ef  i  Annon  Sant. 

Nudd  hael  ap  Senyll  o  Gor  lUtud  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Uys- 
fronudd. 

Owain  ap  Urien  Sant  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  a  CShastell  Aberllychwr. 

Ceinwr  Sant  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Llangeinwr. 

Tyfodwg  Sant  o  Gor  lUtud  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Llandyfodwg  ag 
un  ystrad  Dyfodwg. 

Cadwaladr  fendigaid  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Tref  Escob  yng  Ngwent, 
ac  un  y  Fagwyr,  gerllaw  Iddi. 

Ynyr  Gwent  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  y  Fenni, 

Glywys  ap  Tegid  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Machon 

Tewdric  Sant  ap  Teithfallt,  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Bedwas  ag  un 
Merthyr  Tudfyl. 

Caerllion  ar  Wysg  Macsen  Wledig  ai  Gwnaeth. 

Maenarch  larll  Henfibrdd  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  G^Ui  Gber  ag  un 
Llanfabon  er  cof  anrhydeddus  am  Fabon  Sant, 

Ceinwr  Sant  ap  Coel  ap  Cyllin  ap  Caradoc  ap  Br&n,  ap  Llyr 
Llediaith,  ap  Baran  ap  Ceri  hir  Lyngwyn,  a  wnaeth  Eglwys 
Llangeinwr  ym  Morganwg.  Gwr  oedd  ef  ni  chredai  neb  yn  ber- 
chen  bywyd  yng  nghnawd,  nag  un  ysprydol  y  chwaiUi  nagi 
amgen  o'r  byd  y  credai  namyn  i  Dduw  ei  bun,  neu  yntau  a  ddelai 
ym  mraint  Duw  drwy  wyrth  rhyfeddodau  He  nis  gellid  teb  na 
godeb  nad  o  Dduw  ydoedd.  parth  a  welid  ac  a  ddyellid  er  a  wnebd 
ac  a  wettai  mal  y  gweddai  ar  ban  a  hendid  a  fu'^n  gydgymhrain 
ansoddau  a'r  bynn  a  welid  Ar  Fab  Duw  ai  Saint,  fal  nas  gellid 
dwyn  ar  odeb  nad  o  Dduw  y  byddaint. 

Ag  efe  Beinydd  beunoeth  yn  gweddio  Duw  er  cael  aF  olwg  a 
chlyw  gantho  a  ddiriai  amo  ddal  ar  gred  —  ag  ymbwyll  o  g3rinhrif 
olwg  a  chlyw  a  geid  yn  anesgorol  modd  nas  gellid  amgen,  parth 
ag  ynddo  ef  yr  hyn  a  ddamunai. 

Llyma  fwy  o  fonedd  saint  o  Lyfr  Antoni  Pywel. 

1.  YUdud  farchog  ab  Bicanws  o  Dir  Llydaw,  ai  fam  ef  oedd 
ferch  Brenin  Morganwg,  a  Phenraith  oedd  ef  ar  boll  iarchogion 
Arthur,  ag  Ymryson  a  fu  rhwng  YUtud  ar  Ymherodr  Mar- 
tianys  a  dau  wr  a  fynnai  ei  ladd  o  benswyddwyr  yr  Ymher- 


MAN-GOFION.  149 

odr,  ag  a  ddaliasant  Ylldud  Sant  ar  weddi  ac  ni  allasant  syflyd  j 
dim  lleuaf,  eithr  YUtud  oi  weddiau  a'u  hadferawdd,  a  phan  wybuV 
Ymherodr  hynn  am  ei  Swydd  Wyr  ef  a^u  difreiniawdd  ag  a 
roddes  Gyfbeth  i  Ylldud,  i  wneuthur  Cor  Saint  yn  y  Man  y  bu 
Cor  Eurgain  Santes  ferch  Garadoc  Brenin  Morganwg  yr  hwn 
wedi  ei  ddwyn  yn  gaeth  i  Rufain  a  ddygwyd  ef  ai  ferch  Eurgen  Vt 
ffydd  ynghrist  gan  Ilid  Sant  Gwr  oV  Israel,  yr  hwn  Hid  a  ddaeth 
0  Byfain  if  Ynys  hon  gyda  Charadoc  ac  Eurgen,  a  hwy  a  ddyg- 
asant  y  Cymry  Gyntaf  ir  flFydd  Ynghrist  ag  Eurgen  a  wnaeth 
Gror  i  ddeuddeg  Sant,  a  Lies  ab  Coel  a  roddes  Gyfoeth  Vr  Gor 
honno,  a  chwedi  hynny  hi  a  aeth  yn  benna  Cor  yn  y  Bŷd  Ag  yn 
y  Man  hynny  y  gwnaeth  Ylldud  dair  Cell  fawr  newyddion  yno  o 
ddawn  Martianws.  ag  a  aeth  yn  Sant  yno,  ag  yn  benraith  ar  yr 
hoU  gelloedd  aV  Minteioedd  yno,  y  rhain  oedd  Gell  Eurgen  tair 
Cell  Ylltud,  Cell  Arthur,  Ceìl  Gildas,  a  Chell  Dyfrig,  a>  He  a 
elwid  cynno  hynny  Bangor  Lleufer  Sant  a  chwedy  hynny  Bangor 
Ylldud  a  Llanyldud.  ag  enwoccaf  ar  GoreuV  Byd  ydoedd  am 
Ddwyfoldeb  a  phob  Dysgeidiaeth  a  dwyfil  o  Saint  yno.  ag  Arthur 
a  roddes  Gyfoeth  a  Bhenti  Mawrion  Vr  Celloedd  hyn.  a  Thewdrig 
frenin  a  Sant  a  roddes  gyfoeth  iddynt  ag  a  wnaeth  Bedair  Cell 
newyddion  yn  Ue'^r  saith  Gell  gyntaf,  a  Phedair  Llan  y  sydd  iddo 
Ymorgan,  nid  amgen  Llanylldud  fawr,  Llanilltyd  Gŵyr,  Llan- 
ylldud  faerdre  a  Llanylldud  Glynn  Nedd. 

2.  Cattwg  ab  Cynlais  ap  Glywis  ap  Tegid  Brenin  Morganwg, 
ef  oedd  gar  lUdud,  ag  a  wnaeth  Gor  i  fil  o  Saint  yn  Llancarfan  aV 
lie  hynny  a  fu  enwog  iawn  am  Dduwioldeb,  a  phob  dysg  er  a 
fedriV  a  Chattwg  yn  Benraith  ar  oil  o  naddynt,  (it  is  rather 
âtrange  that  Cynlas  and  GwynUiw  should  be  the  same  person,*) 

3.  Lleufer  Mawr  ab  Coel  ab  Meyryc,  ydoedd  frenin  ar  Ynys 
Prydain,  ag  yn  byw  yn  Llandaf,  ag  ef  a  wnaeth  Esgobaeth  yno 
gyntaf  ag  a  roddes  gyfoeth  i  Gor  Eurgen  i  gant  o  saint,  ag  a 
wnaeth  Gor  yngwynedd  y  lie  a  elwid  wedi  hynny  Bangor  is  Y 
Coed,  ag  Arthur  wedi  hynny  a  roddes  gyfoeth  i  Gor  is  y  Coed  ag 
a  wnaeth  yno  saith  Mintai  yn  ol  y  cynghorwyd  ef  gan  Ylldud.  A 
Lleufer  ab  Coel  a  fuV  Brenin  Cyntaf  a  wnaeth  Drefn  Gwlad  a 
Chyfraith  ar  y  ffydd  ynghrist,  ag  a  wnaeth  Dair  Esgobaith  nid 
amgen  Llandaf  a  Chaerwyryl,  a  Chaerfelyn,  aV  tair  Esgobaeth  a 
fuant  y  rhai  cyntaf  yn  Ynys  Prydain. 


Egiur  yw  mai  synniad  lolo  Morganwg  yw'r  un  Sacsneg  ymiiia. — Ab  1ol«. 


150  MAN-GOFION. 

Ilid  Sant  Gwr  o'r  Israel  a  ddaeth  Tr  Ynjs  hon  gydag  Eoigen 
Santes  ag  efe  oedd  y  cyntaf  yn  dwyn  Ynys  Prydain  Tr  flPjrdd 
ynghrist 

Illtud  a  wnaeth  Saith  Eglwys,  ao  a  ddodes  saith  mintai  at  bob 
Eglwys,  a  Saith  cylfar  ym  mhob  mintai,  a  saith  sant  ymhob 
Oylfar 

al 
Saith  Eglwys  7 

Saith  Mmtai  7 

49 
Saith  cor  cylfar  7 

343 

Saith  Sant  7 

2401 

A  chynnal  mawl  i  Dduw  a  gweddi  yn  ddiorphwys  ddydd  a  noi 
gan  ddeuddeg  Sant  o  leenogion  o  bob  mintai 

lUdud  a  ddug  dri  hwylbren  Tri  thop  Castell:  chwech  dart 
o  aur — 

Efe  a  wnaeth  Illtud  Farehog  a  sant  saith  Eglwys  a  saith  Llaim, 
a  saith  Mintai  at  bob  Llan,  a  saith  Gell  ar  bob  Mintai,  a  Ohor  o 
bob  Mintai,  a  saith  Lleen  ymhob  Cell,  a  chynnal  mawl  a  gweddio 
Duw  gan  ddeuddeg  sant  o  bob  Cor  ddydd  a  nos  heb  orphwys 

Illtud  farehog  ef  a  a  ddug  ariant  dri  hwylbren.  Tri  thop  Castell 
aur,  a  chwech  dart  oV  aur,  (y  tair  hwylbren  dros  ei  dair  ysgol  ai 
dri  thop  Castell  dros  ei  dair  cor  Saint  ai  chwech  dart  aur  droe  y 
chwech  Eglwys  a  wnaeth  ef  er  dysgu'r  ffydd  yng  Nghrist,  a  cfayf- 
riw  rif  Llannau.  ag  yr  oeddynt  oU  yng  Nghaer  Worgom,  ym  Mor- 
ganwg,  lie  y  gelwir  yn  awr  Llanilldud  Fawr.  ag  eraill  o  lannan  a 
wnaeth  efe  yn  y  wlad  honno. 

GU^arthan  fab  Dunawd  fab  Pabo  Post  Prydain  a  fu  Beriglawr 
Cattwg  yng  Nghor  G^armon,  a  Chattwg  ai  danfones  efe  ai  frodyr 
Deinioel  a  Chynwyl  i  arllwybraw  Bangor  ym  Maelor  ynglann 
Dyfrdwy.  ag  o  ddoethineb  a  dwyfoldeb  y  Tri  brodyr  hynn  ydd 
aeth  honno  yn  urddasolaf  Ag  amlaf  ei  Saint  o  holl  Fangorao  Ynys 


MAN-OOFION.  151 

Prydam,  a  hi  a  dorrwyd  gan  y  Saeson  Paganiaid  yng  Ngwaith 
Perllan  Fangor,  ac  yno  y  lias  Uawer  oV  Saint  ag  eraill  a  ddi- 
aDghasant  a  aethant  yn  Saint  ym  Mangor  Enlli  ag  o  hynny  ydd- 
aeth  Enlli  yn  amlaf  ei  Saint  a  chlodfawrusaf  ei  Gwybodau  oV  holl 
&ngorea  a  geid  yng  Ngwynedd,  a  rhoddiau  Brenhinoedd  a  Phen- 
defigion  a  Bonheddigion  iddi  yn  amgen  a  mwy  nag  i  un  arall. 
Owarthan  a  las  gan  y  paganiaid  Saeson  yn  rhyfela  yn  y  Oogledd, 
ei  Elglwys  ef  Llanwarthen  yn  NyflFryn  Clwyd. 

Llyma  Enwau  Gelloedd  Cor  Illtud» 

Cor  Mathew  Cor  Marcus,  Cor  Lucas,  Cor  leuan.  Cor  Arthur, 
Cor  Dewi,  Cor  Morgan,  a  Chor  Eurgain,  a  chor  Amwn  ag  lUtyd 
yn  Benrhaith  ar  yr  wyth  Gror  hyn,  Ag  enwiV  Lie  Bangor  lUtyd, 
a  theirmil  o  saint. 

Yng  Nghor  Dyfrig  yr  oedd  y  Corau  hynn  sef  Cor  Dyfrig  Cor 
Arthur,  Cor  Jiliws,  Cor  Aran,  aV  rhain  oil  ynghaer  Lleon  ar 
wysg,  a  Chor  Dyfrig  a  Chor  Meugant  ar  Ian  Gwy,  a  Chor  Llan- 
daf  a  Dying  yn  Ben  raith  amynt  oil  a  dwyfil  o  Saint, 

Bangor  Aidan  a  Saith  Gôr  a  dwyfil,  aV  enwau^r  Saith  niwar- 
nod  yr  wythnos. 

Cor  Cattwg  yn  Llancarfan  a  thair  Cell  a  mil  o  Saint,  a  dwy 
Gell  ynglyn  nedd  iddo. 

Cor  Cyby  ymôn  a  phumcant  o  saint  a  ChybPn  benrhaith. 

Cor  Eurdeym  ab  Gwrtheyrn  yn  Llaneurdeym  ymorganwg  ag 
Eurdeym  yn  Benraith  a  Mil  o  saint. 

Cor  Dochwy  ymorganwg  a  mil  o  Saint. 

Cor  Cradfan  yn  Enlli  i  ugainmil  Saint  ag  nid  oedd  yno  Gell- 
oedd eithr  pob  un  fal  y  mynai  a  gwedi  ugainmil  saint  e  fu  Enlli 
yn  Gor  o  Gell  i  bumcant  Sant. 

Cor  Mechell  ym  Mon  i  Gant  Sant. 

Cor  Dewi  ym  Mynyw  i  bumcant  o  Saint 

Cor  Teilo  yn  Llandaf  i  fil  o  saint. 

Cor  Cawrdaf  ymorganwg  i  dri  chant  o  Saint 

Cor  Dyfan  yn  Llan  Daf  a  Dyfrig  yn  Benraith, 

Gor  Ffagan  yn  Llansanffagan,  a  flFagan  yn  Benraith, 

Gor  Elbod  ym  Mangor  Elbod  yn  Arfon  ag  Elbod  yn  Benraith- 
nûth  ar  bumcant  o  saint, 

Gor  Tathan  ynghaerwent  ar  bumcant  o  saint  a  Chor  hefyd  gan 
dathan  yn  Llandathan  Ymorganwg  i  bumcant  o  Saint,  a  Thathan 
yn  Benraith  ar  y  Ddwy  Gor  yma. 


152 


MAN-OOFION. 


Cor  Eurgau  yn  Llauilltyd  i  bedwar  Sant  ar  Iiugaiu  a  hon  a  fa'r 
Gor  gyntaf  yn  y  Byd  i  ddysguV  Efengyl,  a^r  flFydd  ynghrist, 

Cor  Sarllawc  yn  Llandaf  i  ddegsant  ar  hugain  a  Sarllawo  yn 
benrhaith. 

Cor  Elvan  yn  Ynys  Wydrin  i  fil  o  Saint, 


GWYLIAU  SAINT  CYMEU,  Ice. 

Allan  o  hen  "Gralander"^  mewn  Ysgriflyfr  a  ysgrifenwyd  ynghylch 
1500,  ym  meddiant  Mr.  Thomas  Davies  o  DdolgeUeu. 


loNAWR, 

11  Llwchaearn,  12,  Elar  a 
Llwchaeam,  13,  Ilari,  Elian,  19, 
Gwylystan.  23,  EUi,  24,  Cat- 
twg,  3,  Malangell, 

Chwefror, 

1,  St.  Ffrod  leian  9.  Teilaw, 
Mawrth. 

1,  Dewi  3,  Non  fam  Dewi,  5, 
Caron,  7,  Sannan  11,  Duw 
Pasc,  17,  Padric,  19,  Cynbryd, 
29,  Gwynlliw, 

Ebrill, 

6,  Derfel,  7,  Brynach,  Lin. 
a  Qwmerth,  16,  Padam,  21, 
Beuno, 

Mai. 

1,  Philip  a  lago — Asaph,  4, 
Melangell,  6,  Isan  borth  Lladin 
9,  Gwyl  Ofor  13,  Mahael  a 
Sulien,  16,  Granog,  17,  Noe  iV 
Arch,  dilyw'^n  codi.  20,  Anno, 
21,  CoUen,  22,  Helen  frenhin- 
es,  27,  Melangell,  Garmon  29, 
Erbin,  30,  Tydglyd, 
Mehefin, 

1,  Tegla,  3  Gofen,  4,  Pedroc, 
13,  Sannan,  15  Trillo,  Geneu 
16,  Cirig  17.  Mylling,  22,  Al- 
banus,  23,  Mifilia,  24,  Ifan  vawr 
26.  Turnoc,  30,  Pawl, 


GrORPHENNAF, 

1,  Gwyl  Gewydd  y  Glaw,  3, 
peblie— 4,  Marthin,  6  Cofyl, 
10,  Saith  frodyr.  11,  Gt>wair, 
13,  Doewan,  17.  Eliw,  Cynllo, 
27,  Saith  Gysgadur — 31,  Gar- 
mon Escob. 

AwsT. 

8,  Illog  yn  Hivnant,  15,  Ghryl 
Fawrfawr,18,  Elen,22,  Gwydd- 
elau,     27,    Feddwid,    29   I&n 
fechan,     Torfynygl, 
Medi, 

1,  Silin, — 2,  Sulien,  4,  Bhndd- 
lad,  5,  Mechell,  6,  Idlos,  8, 
Oynfarch  9,  Y  Ddelw  fyw,  10, 
Eigion,  11,  Daniel,  20,  Gwen- 
frewi — 24,  Tegla  Mwrog,  25, 
Beugan,  30,  Nidan. 
Hydrep. 

1.  Silin  a  Garmon,  5,  Cynha- 
fal,  8,  Cain, — Cammarch,  9, 
Cynog,  10,  Tanwg,  15,  Tndur, 
21,  Gwryddor — 23,  Gwnog, 
Noethan,  31,  Dogfael. 
Tachwedd. 

3,    Clydog — Christiolys, 

Gwenfoe,  5,  Cybi — 6,  Cydnerih 
— Edweu,  7,  Cyngar — 8  Tys- 
siliaw  Powys,  Cynfarwy,  9,  Pa- 
bo  Post  Prydain,  11,  Marthin 


MAN-GOFION.  153 

11,  Edeym,  12,  Padarn,  Cadwar  Clement,  27,  Gallgof,  29,  Sadwrn, 

ladr,  13,Gradifel,  14,  Meilig,  15,  Ehagfyr 

Machudd —  Mechell,  17,  Afan,  1.  Grwsta  Llechyd,  6,  Oawr- 

21,   Digain — 22,  Dyniolen,  23,     da,  escob  6,  Nicolas ♦ 


Padrig  ap  Alfryd  ap  Goronwy^  ap  Gwydion  ap  Don  ap  Dar- 
onwy 

Padrig  ap  Mawan,  ap  Alfryd  ap  Goronwy  ap  Gwydion  ap 
Don,  ap  Daronwy  o  Dir  Llychlyn  a  Brenin  Mon. 

Plant  Urien  Bheged.  1.  Owain  Marchog  or  ford  Gronn,  a 
larll  y  flFynon, — 2.  Pasgen,  Cyff  Ceneddyl  Gwaed  Brain.  3,  Ehun, 
4,  Elphin,  5,  Oyndeyrn,  6,  Rhiwallon,  7,  Cadell,  8,  G^a^th 
ap  Urien. 

542,  bu  farw  Deinioel  Escob  Bangon;  ag  y  gwnaed  Theon 
escob  Caerioyw  yn  Archescob  Llundain,  ag  y  bu  farw  Samson 
archescob  Caerefrawc.  marw  Dewi  hefyd. 

Meyryg  Brenin  Morganwg  a  roddes  ar  ei  fedydd  y  Tir  i  Dduw 
a  Theilo  ac  Escyb  Llandaf  dros  fyth  y  Tir  Cyfoeth  aV  breiniau  ac 
o  hyn  y  ddaeth  yn  ddefod  rhoddi  Tir  i  Dduw  ai  Saint  ar  fedydd, 
a  Ueni  bai  bedydd  ar  Aberth  Corph  Crist,  canys  cadarnaf  Uw  ar 
bob  11  w  yw  a  wnaler  ar  fedydd  neu  Aberth  Corph  Crist. — 
(lAjfr  Antoni  Powel  o  Lwydarth,) 

Begin  Wyddel  Sant  o  Gor  Illtud,  Llanmihangel  y  Bontfaen, 
ag  Eglwys  iddaw  yng  Ngwynedd. 


•  Y  Gwyliau  uchod  a  ganlynant  "  Hen  Galander"  Amaethyddiaeth,  yn  yr 
jigrif  rag-en wedig  :  ond  gann  fod  y  ddalcn  ag  oedd  yn  cyssylltu  y  cyfry  w 
ddosparth  ag  an  y  gwyliau  ymnia,  ar  goll,  ymddengys  gwall  yn  y  gofrestr 
lionn.  Rhwng  y  ddau  ddosparth,  y  mae  Iolo  Moroanwo,  yn  ei  adysgrif,  yn 
dywedyd  £&!  hynn: — "  Y  mae'r  ail  ddalen  ym  Mis  Rhagfyr  ar  goll." — Ab  Iolo. 

f  Goponwy  Wareddawc — mann  arail. 


DAMMEGION 

CATTWG  DDOETH  AP  GWYNLLIW  AP  GLYWIS  AP 
TEGID   AP  CADELL    DEYRNLLWG. 


I.  DAMMEG  Y  WADD  AR  HEDYDD. 

Y  Wadd  ar  un  bore  teg  o  Fai  tesog  ysblennydd  a  ganfuV  hed- 
ydd  yn  entyrch  awyr  yn  canu  goslef  gorfoledd ;  gwae  fy  nhynged, 
ebe  hi,  na  bawn  hedydd  ag  nid  G^add,  cawn  esgyn  ehangder  di- 
rwystr  yr  wybren  Ue  ni  chawn  am  Uuddiai^n  fy  nhaith,  ag  yng 
ngoleuni  ryddleV  nwyfre  cawn  ganu  fy  ngwala  gan  lawenydd  bodd 
calon ;  lie  ydd  wyf  yn  awr  yn  gorfod  ymdrafferthu  yn  dodioV 
flFordd  ydd  af  drwyV  ddaear  galed  garegog  heb  fymryn  yn  lydd 
oV  ffordd  y  Gerddwyf.  Ue  nid  oes  na  goleu  na  gweled  na  dim  ond 
Uwyrdeb  tywyllwch  im  ymbalfalu'n  galedgamp  drwyddo,  a  chyda 
bod  y  gair  oi  phen  gwelai  walch  yn  gafaelu  ar  yr  hedydd  ag  yn  ei 
lladd  ai  bwytta,  yna  gan  feddwl  gwell  y  dywed  y  Wad,  clod  i 
Dduw  fy  mod  yn  wadd  mewn  diogelwch  er  maint  fy  nbraSerih  am 
helbul,  am  bod  ynghudd  dan  ddaear  a  thywyllwch  lie  nid  oes  o 
walch  nag  i  arall  o  reipus  am  gwel,  nid  gwynfyd  heb  ddiogelwch, 
nid  diogelwch  heb  draíFerth. 

Bodloned  pawb  i'r  cyflwr  a'i  redded  ynddo  gan  Ddnw  a  wyddai 
yn  well  na  dyn  beth  oedd  oreu,  ag  a  wnaeth  o  wir  gariad  a  weles 
yn  oreu  i  bob  byw  a  bod. 


II.  DAMMEG  Y  GWR  A  LADDWYS  EI  FILGL 

Yr  oedd  gwr  gynt  yn  byw  yn  Abergarwan  ag  iddo  wraig  ae  vn 
mab  o  unig  blentyn  yn  faban  yn  ei  gawell,  myned  a  wnaeth  j 
wraig  yn  ei  golychwyd,  y  gwr  a  glywai  lafar  bytheoaid  yn  ymlid 
Oarw  ar  ei  dir.  mi  a  af  yn  erbyn  y  cwn  ebe  efe  fal  y  caSWyf  y  nm 
oV  carw  am  dylu  a  minnau  yn  Arglwydd  y  tir,  myned  a  wnaeth  a 
gadael  ei  blentyn  yn  ei  gawell  yn  cysgu  ai  filgi  yn  gorwedd  ar  ei 
bwys.     Tra  bu  ym  maes  y  gwr,  dyfod  a  wnaeth  ceneu  blaidd  i^r 


DAMMEOIOK.  155 

ty  ac  a  fynnai  ladd  y  plentyn  ai  Yssu,  ynaV  milgi  a  ymladdwys 
yn  gated  a^r  blaidd  ac  ai  Uaddwys  gwedi  hir  ymdrin  a  chael  ei 
glwyfaw  yn  friwedig,  ac  yn  hynny  o  ymdrech  troi  a  wnaeth  y 
cawell  wyneb  i  wared,  pan  ddaeth  y  gwr  yn  ol  Tr  ty  y  milgi  a 
gyfodes  yn  waedlyd  i  roesawi  ei  feistr  gan  siglo  ei  gynffon  ai  ben 
amo  yn  garedig  ond  y  gwr  gan  weled  gwaed  ar  y  milgi  ac  yn 
Uynwyn  ar  y  llawer  a  feddylwys  ir  milgi  ladd  ei  unig  blentyn  ac 
yn  ei  wyn  o  lid  ac  amhwyll  gwan  y  milgi  ai  gleddyf  a  wnaeth  ai 
ladd.  gwedi  hynny  wrth  droi'r  cawell  i  fynydd  gwelaiV  plentyn  yn 
fyw  ac  yn  iach  diniwed,  ac  ar  bwys  y  blaidd  yn  farw,  ar  milgi  yn 
friwedig  gan  ddaint  y  blaidd,  ac  edifar  y  bu  gan  y  gwr  hyd 
yngfalaia  amhwyll.  ac  o  hynny  y  cafad  y  ddiareb,  cyn  dial  gwy- 
bydd  yr  achos.  ag  ystyr  ddwywaith  cyn  taraw  nnwaith.  ac  am  a 
fii  o  hynny  y  dywedir  mor  edifar  a  chan  y  gwr  a  laddwys  ei  Filgi. 
a  gwaith  byrbwyll  nid  gwaith  ystyrbwyll.  ond  fal  y  gwr  a  ladd- 
wys ei  filgi. 

Y  Gwr  a  oddef  i  lid  ddwyn  y  blaen  ar  ei  bwyll  a  wna  ddryg- 
waith  nis  gellir  byth  ei  ddadwneuthur  ac  a  bair  edifeirwch  tro  fo 
byw.  Da  yw  ffrwyno  llid  rhag  dialu  yn  angyfiawn,  fal  y  gwnaeth 
y  gwr  a  laddwys  ei  Filgi. 


III.  DAMMEG  Y  DDAU  BYSGODYN. 


Dau  frithyll  yn  canfod  rhwyd  pysgodwr  yn  eu  hymlid  a  ym- 
gynghorasant  au  gilydd  pa  fodd  y  diengynt,  mi  a  wanaf  yn  ddwfn 
Fr  llaid  eb.»  un  onid  eloV  rwyd  heibio.  nage,  ebeV  Hall  aflan  yw 
hynny  o  le.  mi  a  neidiaf  Vr  tir  eych  He  nid  rhaid  ofni  rhwyd  i'm 
gwarchae  a  hynny  a  wnaeth  efe,  ond  cyn  bod  yno  ennyd  efe  a 
deimla  angerdd  y  tes  y  peth  ni  wyddai  cyn  hynny  am  dano  a 
sTchder  anesgorawl  yn  ei  faeddu.  Gwae  fi  ebe  efe  na  wanaswn 
gyda  nghyfaill  i'r  llaid  nes  myned  o'r  rwyd  heibio  gallaswn  drwy 
wneuthur  felly  a  gwiliaw'n  ofalus  rhag  llaw  ddiangc  o  rwyd  pysg- 
odwr hyd  ddiwedd  fy  oes  naturiol  Ue  ddwyf  ynawr  yn  hyn  o  le 
yn  trengi  gan  sych  a  gwres  heb  feddu  na  thraed  nac  adenydd  er 
cyrchuV  dwr  y  daethum  o  honaw,  a  marw  y  bu.  am  hynny  dy- 
wedir mal  y  pysg  ym  maes  or  dwr,  a  gwell  i  ddyn  y  drwg  a  wyr 
naV  drwg  nas  gwyr.  gwnaed  pob  un  ei  oreu  yn  y  cyflwr  ai  doded 
ynddo  gan  Dduw. 


156  DAMliEGION. 


IV.  DAMMEG  Y  CEILIOG  RHEDYN  A'R  FYRIONBN. 

Myrionen  a  fu'n  ddiwyd  tra  fuV  haf  i  gynnal  ei  ossynudtli  7 
maint  o  bob  cyfraid  a  ddigonai  ei  hun  ai  dealu  dros  y  ganftt  ft 
phan  ddaeth  y  rhew  ar  oerfel  o  wynt  a  gwlaw  ac  eira  yr  oedd  ef 
gydai  wraig  ai  blant  ai  holl  dylwyth  yn  ddigongael  a  llawen  yn'ei 
dy  ai  dyddyn.  Ac  ar  un  brig  nos  oer  yn  Bhagfyr  efe  a  glywai  alw 
wrth  ei  ddrws,  Pwy  ydwyd  ebe''r  Fyrionen  ?  car  yt  ebe'r  atteb. 
Car  ebeV  Myrionen  dywed  imiHh  enw  nid  er  nac  o£q  nac  er  drwg 
ond  er  gwybod  pwy  ydwyd.  Dy  frawd  flFydd  ydwyf  y  ceiliog  Bhe- 
dyn,  ebeV  atteb,  a  dyfod  attad  i  west  yr  ydwyf  fal  y  mae  defod 
ceraint.  pa  le  buost  drwyV  haf  aV  cynhaiaf  ebeV  Myrionen.  na 
chawswn  dy  weled  a  chael  gennyt  gymmorth  i  gynnnll  yr  yd 
ar  gwair  ar  cynnyd.  Llemmain  a  chanu  fy  ngoreu  ar  hyd  y  rnent- 
ydd  meillionog  ar  tes  claerwyn  er  diddanu  pob  byw  am  olywai, 
ebe'r  Ceiliog  Rhedyn,  Dos,  ebe'r  Myrionyn.  at  a  gawsant  en  di- 
ddanu gennyd,  ni  chefais  i  fawr  o  hynny,  nac  amser  ychwauh  gan 
bres  fy  nghynhaiaf  i  wrando  amat.  ynawr  y  mae  amser  cana  gyda 
ni,  dos  di  a  gwna  drosot  dy  hun  fal  y  gwaethnm  innaa.  Trm 
ymaith  yn  drist  a  wnaeth  y  Ceiliog  Bhedyn  ac  nid  pell  oddiwrth 
y  drws  y  cafwyd  ef  y  boreu  dranoeth  wedi  rhynnu  a  newynu  hyd 
farw.  ac  0  hynn  y  dywedir  am  bob  annarbodus,  fal  y  ceiliog  rhe- 
dyn ar  y  Tes,  a  goreu  celfyddyd  diwydrwydd.  ac  a  fo  gar  iddo  á 
hun  a  gaiff  bob  un  arall  yn  gar  iddo.  ac,  a  lafur  tra  pheryV  haf  a 
gan  drwy  gydol  gauaf.  A  wnel  ei  ran  a  wyr  ei  fan. 


V.  DAMMEG  YR  ADARWR  A'R  CYLCHWR. 

Adarwr  a  Chylchwr  a  aethant  i  goed,  yr  adarwr  y  ^[jrfÿloeeai 
ar  cylchwr  i  gynnuU  ffynn  cylchau,  a  gwedi  myned  o  honynt  nep- 
pell  o  gerdded,  a  phob  un  ai  lygad  am  a  geisiau,  ebe^r  adarwr, 
mi  a  welaf  gyffylog ;  p'*le  mae  Î  ebe'^r  Cyclchwr,  docco  Ue  mae  oth 
flaen  yn  gymmwys,  ebeV  adarwr  ym  mon  y  llwyn  gwem  ooeo  Ue 
gweliV  Ue  goferllyd  occo  ar  ei  bwys,  docco  fe  !  y  llwyn  gwem  !  y 
lie  goferllyd !  ebe''r  cylchwr,  ai  gerllawV  flFon  cylch  occo  y  mae !  y 
ffon  cylch !  pa  le  mae  dy  ffon  cylch  di  Ì  ebeV  adarwr.  doooo  Ue 
mae  ar  fon  prysgollen  a  weli  di  yn  union  oHh  flaen  coco,  ebeV 
Cylchwr.  ni  welaf  ddim  oHh  goUen  na^th  ffon  cylch,  ebe^r  on,  na 
minnau  na'th  gyffylog  na'th  Iwyn  gwem,  ebeV  llall.  ag  fiü  hynny 


DAHME6I0N.  157 


y  mae  jmhlith  pob  ryw  ddynion.  y  mae  llygad  pob  dyn  or  byd 
bob  amser  yn  bwrw  oi  amgylch  am  a  chwennych  ei  gael.  ac  ebrwydd 
iawn  y  gwel  a  fo  debyg  i  hynny.  lie  nas  gwel  na  fo  tawr  iddo  er 
amlycced  y  bo.  a  gwir  yw'r  diarhebion,  sef  CraflF  pob  llygad  a  gais 
— a — Hawdd  y  gwel  Uygad  chwannog :  a,  Lly^  dichwant  nis 
gwel  er  amlycced  y  peth — ^A  llygad  ceifiiad  a  wel  yn  graflF,  fal  yr 
Adarwr  aV  Cylchwr  yn  y  coed. 


VI.   I>AMMEG  Y  GOF  AI  AIR  DA. 

Gk>F  gynt  a  gaue»  air  da  iawn  a  chlod  am  wneuthur  Celfi  min 
tra  riiagorol,  a  Gwr  a  erchis  gantho  fwyall  dda,  ac  addewid  oi  chael 
a  gafas.  a  phan  oedd  y  Gof  yn  gweithio  ar  y  fwyall,  y  dur  dan 
bwys  yr  ergyd  a  dasges  ymaith.  Meistr  !  meistr !  ebe  gwas  y  gof, 
y  maeV  dur  wedi  tasgu  ymaith !  pwya  diV  haeam  ebe'r  gof,  os 
ydyw'r  dnr  ym  maes  maeV  gair  ym  mewn.  ac  fal  hyn  y  mae  yn  y 
byd.  ni  waeth  pa  ddrwg  a  wnelo  undyn  gwedi  y  caffo  air  da,  na  pha 
ddaioni  a  wnelo  andyn  gwedi  y  caffo  air  drwg,  nea  cyn  y  caffo  air 
da,  a  gwir  y  diarhebion,  gwyn  ei  fyd  y  gwr  a  elo  gair  da  am  dano. 
— «,  Dedwydd  a  gaffo  air  da,  a  nythed  drwg  ynghesail  gair  da. 
neu  o  fodd  arall.  CS»is  nyth  y  drwg  ynghesail  gair  da.  a  mynych  y 
syrth  mefl  o  gesail  gair  da.  fal  y  bu  i'r  gof  ar  dur  yn  y  fwyall.  ac 
am  hynny  nid  diogel  yraddiried  yn  fawr  i  air  da  nebun  or  byd. 
gwae  a  gaffo  air  drwg  yn  ieuangc,  a  chan  mwy  gwae  a  fo  iddo  air 
drwg  yn  hen,  can  nis  gellir  diwyg  ar  hwnnw. 


Vn.  DAMMEG  Y  TWRCH  AR  GOG. 

TwBCH  yn  ymloi'n  y  llaid  budr  a  glybu  Gog  ar  frigyn  uchaf  y 
berllan  yn  canu  ar  awr  anterth  tesog  ym  Mai,  a  chan  ddangos 
ei  drwyn  trwylledig  iddo,  ebe  fe,  rhyfedd  gennyf  y  drafferth  a 
gymmeraist  i  dringo  cuwch  i  ganu  gwccw  mor  ddiflin  ag  yr  yd- 
wyd,  lie  nid  oes  neb  a  ryV  ffado  fechan  am  dy  gaingc  a  lie  nid  oes 
itti  les  yn  y  byd  o  honi.  nid  felly  y  mae,  ebe'r  Gog,  yr  wyf  fi  yn 
eann  gan  lawenydd  dyfod  haf  a  thes  claerwyn,  ac  yn  ymwynfydu 
yn  fy  nghan  ai  hachos.  ac  nid  oes  namyn  tydi  a'tli  fath  yn  y  byd 
o  fyw  a  bywydol  nad  yw  yn  llawen  ganthynt  fy  nghly wed  yn  dat- 
gan  iddynt  goelfain  newyddion  da  ddyfod  hirddydd  haf  a  hinon.  da 
gan  b«wb  fy  ngweled  am  clywed,  hen  gyfaill  cariadlais  wyf  iddynt 


158  DAMMEGION. 

ac  nim  niweidiant  na  dyn,  nag  un  rheipus  yn  y  byd  nac  o  adar  na 
milod  a  wyper  am  danynt  onid  tydi  pei  bai  yn  dy  alia,  lie  nid  oes 
it,  er  gwynfyd  immi,  na  gallu  na  deall  i  wneuthur  i  mi  ddrygder, 
eithr  tydi,  yn  ymloi^n  dy  fudreddi,  nid  hoff  gan  neb,  cas  gan  bob 
llygad  yr  olwg  amad.  drwg  a  wnai  di  ymhob  man  lie  bythot.  newydd 
drwg  yw  dy  fod  ti  yn  unman  ba  bynnag,  ag  oni  bai  am  y  trwyll  a 
ddoded  yn  dy  drwyn,  diwreiddio  a  difethuV  cyfan  oHh  amgylch  a 
wneit,  eithr  yn  ol  itti  ymdewychu  dy  ddognedd  ar  a  ffieiddia  bob 
byw  arall,  ti  a  leddir  am  dy  frasder,  lie  ni  chais  neb  fy  Uadd  i, 
end  gwaefiaint  na  bai^n  hwy  fy  nyddiau,  ag*  nid  oes  les  i  neb  o 
honot  ti  oni  dderfydd  am  danat. 

Ag  yn  ail  iV  twrch  am  y  Gog  y  gwed  y  Cybydd  am  bob  hael 
gwybodaethgar,  yr  hwn  a  wna  les  a  diddanwch  i  bob  rhywiog  ei 
anian,  lie  nid  oes  ond  afles  i  bawb  or  cybydd  tra  fo  byw.  cans 
drygu  pob  byw  a  bod  a  wna  efe  er  cynnull  golud  ac  ynddynt  yr 
ymfudredda,  ac  nid  ymattalia  oni  bai  fod  cyfraith  a  chosp  yn  ei 
luddias  yn  ail  iV  trwyll  yn  nhrwyn  y  twrch.  pan  bo  marw  y  cyb- 
ydd ac  nid  cynt  y  cair  lies  o  bono,  yn  ail  iV  Twrch  ai  fola  tew.  ni 
chydfydd  hael  ag  anhael,  ag,  nid  unnaws  gwyraws  a  gwem.  ag.  ni 
chlyw'r  Uwynog  ei  ddrygsawr  ei  hunan.  nid  drewdod  yn  nhrwyn 
twrch  ei  ludreddi.  nid  cynghais  Cybbydd  ag  Anghawr,  mwy  na'r 
Twrch  yn  y  budredd  a'r  gog  ganiadgar.  ar  y  gangen. 


VIII.  DAMMEG  YR  HEN  WRAIG  AI  HEDAFEDD. 

Hen  wraig  yn  fam  i  lawer  o  blant  ac  wyron  yn  gweled  angfayd- 
fod  rhyngddynt,  au  gelwis  ynghyd  ger  eu  bron,  a  phan  ddaethant 
nid  llai  nag  ugain  o  honynt.  dygwch  immi,  ebe  hi,  bob  on  o  honoch 
bellen  o  edau,  a  hynny  a  wnaethant  a  chymmeryd  o  un  or  pellenni 
edefyn  ungor  a  rhwymaw  dwylaw  y  gwannaf  oi  hwyron.  ond  bnan 
y  torres  y  mab  bychan  ei  rwymau;  rhwymaw  ei  ddwylaw  ag  edefyn 
oedd  gryfach  o  bellen  arall,  a  hawdd  y  torred  hwnnw,  ag  yn  onwedd 
y  bu  a  phob  un  arall  oV  pellenni,  nis  gellid  rhwym  didor  ag  mi 
o  honynt.  torrid  y  cryfaf  yn  ail  ir  gwannaf.  yna  peris  yr  hen 
wraig  iddynt  gyfrodeddu  yr  holl  bellenni  yn  un  rhaff.  a  hynny  a 
wnaethpwyd,  gwedi  hynny  y  cymmeres  yr  hen  wraig  o  honaw  ac 
a  rwymes  ddwylaw  y  cryfaf  oi  meibion  ag  nis  gallai  mown 
modd  yn  y  byd  ei  dorri.  Gwelwch  ebe  hi,  maint  cadamach  yr 
edau  yn  gyfrodedd  nag  yn  ungor,  felly  chwithau  fy  mhlant  am 
hwyrou.  tra  bo'ch  yn  ymwahanu  pob  un  ar  ei  ben  ei  hunan,  j 


dámmeoion.  159 

naill  yn  aDghydgais  ar  llall,  hawdd  i  bob  un  a  chwennych  eich 
gorfod.  ag  nid  oes  na  chais  orfod,  a  fo  galledig  iddo,  namjn  o  fil ; 
ond  ymgydlynwch  yn  un  ach  gilydd  yn  gydgyfrodedd.  a  chadam 
y  byddwch  heb  alledigaeth  i  elyn  oV  byd  eich  gwrthladd.  ag  o 
hynn  y  cafwyd  y  ddihareb,  cadarnach  yw'r  edau'n  gyfrodedd  nag 
yn  angor — a  diarheb  arall  a  wed,  nid  cadam  ond  cydnerth,  ac 
medd  un  arall,  Hawdd  tafluV  mynydd  ir  mor  yn  ol  ei  wahanu  y 
naill  garreg  oddiwrth  y  Uall. 


IX.  DAMMEG,  YR  YSGUTHAN  A'R  BI. 

Y  Bi  a  ganfuV  Ysguthan  yn  gwneutlmr  ei  nyth  yn  drwgl 
iawn  ac  anghelfyddgamp,  ac  a  roddes  iddi  gynghor  ac  addysg  gan 
ei  dangofl  a  dywedyd  wrthî,  dod  frigyn  y  ffordd  hynn,  a  brigyn  y 
Sbrdd  yna,  un  y  modd  yma,  ac  arall  y  modd  hynn  ar  modd.  a 
thi  wnaiHh  yn  gywair  yn  gadam,  ac  yn  Uettŷog  a  chynnes.  mi 
wn !  mi  wn !  mi  wn !  ebeV  ysguthan,  ag  er  hynny  myned  yn  y 
blaen  ai  gwaith  a  wnai  hi  yn  ei  hen  ffordd  anghelfydd  yn  ol  ei 
harfer.  ar  Bi  fyth  yn  ei  dangos  gan  geisio  gyrru  addysg  ami.  ond 
mi  wn.  mi  wn.  mi  wn.  oedd  holl  atteb  a  diolch  yr  ysguthan  heb 
ymwellhau^'n  ei  chelfyddyd  na  chymmeryd  attiV  gronyn  lleiaf  o 
addysg.  os  gwyddost  pa  ham  ynteu  nas  gwnei  ?  ebeV  Bi.  ac  yna  ei 
gadael  ar  ei  hen  ffordd  ei  hun,  gan  weled  yn  ofer  ei  dangos.  Ag  o 
hynn  y  maeV  ddihareb,  Mai  y  Bi  ar  ysguthan,  a,  mi  wn,  mi  wn. 
fid  atteb  yr  ysguthan.  a.  nid  anghelfydd  ond  ysguthan.  a  dihar- 
hebion  eraill  a  ddangosant  yr  un  peth  sef.  nid  hawdd  gyrru  dysg 
ar  ddoeth  yn  ei  olwg  ei  hun ;  a,  nid  hawdd  y  cymmer  anghelfydd 
ei  ddangos,  call  pob  ffol  yn  ei  olwg  ei  hun.  nid  hawdd  dwyn  gwr 
oddiar  ei  gamp,  a,  ni  wyr  neb  lai  naV  hwn  a  wyr  y  cyfan.  Hoff 
gan  ynfyd  ei  gwnwppa.  ac  eraill  nis  gellir  eu  dysgu  gan  ddiffyg 
deall  anianawl  amynt,  am  y  rheiny  diarhebir,  nid  hawdd  tynny 
mer  o  best,  ni  cheir  o  un  Uestr  ond  a  rodded  ynddo,  nid  hawdd 
gyrry  y  mhennydd  ym  mhost  clwyd.  nid  hawdd  o  fran  y 
gwneir  Eos. 

X.   DAMMEG  Y  GWR  AR  LYGODEN. 

GwB  bonheddig  Aberthog  yn  rhodioV  Meusydd  brydnawngwaith 
gwlyboer  o  Ragfyr,  a  ganfu  gwr  o  gloddiwr  dan  wasgawd  y  clawdd 
yn  bwytta  bara  Iiaidd  sych  dienllyn  ac  yn  yfcd  dwr  o>  pyllwyn 


ISO 


DAMMEGION. 


ger  ei  law,  gan  gwynaw  a  gwedyd,  **GwaefiÌ  dyma  fyd  gwmA 
arnaf,  yn  gorfod  gweitliio^'ii  galed  ar  ymbortb  na^m  ccidw  ond  d 
fraidd  yu  fjTV,  a  Uai  na  digon  o  honaw,  tra  fo  fy  meistr  yn  byw'n 
fra»  ac  jn  eegur,  a  minnau'u  cael  dim  gwell  bä  hynn  a  gweithio'n 
galed  am  dano,  ac  amo  ef  nid  oea  na  gwaith  na  gorchwyh"  a  chyda , 
Lynoy  y  gwr  bonheddîg  yr  hwn  oedd  ei  feistr  a  ymddangoset 
iddo.  betli  ebe  fe  a  fynnit,  "bywychydîgwell  nagjT  wyfebeVgwr, 
pel  cait  fyTV  ar  yr  un  ^nnbortL  a"*th  fei»tr,  eboV  gwr  bouheddig,  ai 
ymfoddlonit  ti  i  hynny  bob  chwenoych  arat!;en,  gan  weled  dy  ddi- 
gon!  gwnawn  yu  llawen  ebe'r  gwr,  ac  ar  lawer  Uai  na  hyimy 
boddloui  a  wnawn^  a  wneît  ti  ei  orrhymyn  os  hawdd  a  dilafur  y 
byddai,  ebeV  gwr  bonheddig,  gwnawu  ebeV  gwr  yn  llawen  a  chyda 
pob  iifiidddod   a  chariad  a  gofal»  or  goreu  ebeV  gwr  bonheddig, 
derc  gydii  mi,  mi  yw  dy  feistr,  a  cliystal  y  cei  di'^th  fyd  ac  y  mae 
arnaf  finnau.  mjmed  eill  dau  hyd  y  plaa  a  wnaethant,  ac  yno  j 
dangosas  y  gwr  bonbedd  iddo  ystafell  mor  wycb  ar  gwycbaf  yn  y 
plas  ac  yuddi  wely  o  faublu  alarcbod  o  fewn  Ì  babell  sidanwysg 
oreuraid  ac  ar  y  gwely  y  nieinaf  a  Uain  ar  rhywiücraf  o  wUn  yn 
gaubeidliw  haiHidwych  a  Hyl  oreuraidwailh  nodwyddgrefft  ar  y 
cyfan,  ac   yn  yr  yätufoll  pob  coat  us  o  ddodrefn  a  pbob  taccliieder 
arddcrcbowgwycb.  yn  ddiddan  i'r  alwg  ac   yn  drefimíîdeg  at  bob 
acboB  a  ddymunid*  gwedi  hynny  rhoi  am  dano'r  gwychaf  ar  cost- 
usaf  o  bob  gwiegoedd  bonheddigaidd  hyd  nad  ocdd  ^ycbder  a 
ellid  ei   ddychyinyg  naB  gweUid  yn  ei  gylcb»  yn  ol  hynny  dodi 
gweÎBÌon  a  morwynion  esgiidlym  ufuddbarcb  Uawgywramt  i  weiui 
îddaw  ar  frya  y  petb  a  ddymnnai*  Yna  gotìi>d  bord  gostuswaith  aa 
ami  liain  woitliiedig  ag  addad  arianaid  ag  curaid  a  aidanaid,  ac  af  ■ 
hynny  y  goreuon  ar  moethusaf  o  bob  bwydydd  a  diodydd,  yn  anif- 
eiliaid  ac  adar  a  phyag  a  phob  miúdfw;)*d  blasuaber,  a  pbob  ffrwythau 
coed,  a  phob  gwin  a  medd  a  chwrw  a  bragod,  ac  ymblith  y  dy^gU 
eidiau  nn  dysgl  gwarcharcdig,  EbeV  gwr  bonheddig  wrth  y  gwr, 
hyn  oil  y  aydd  itti  a  cliymer  o  hiinynt  dy  wala  hyd  eitha^ 
llymaV  gweision  ar  morwynion  a  ddug  itti  ychwaneg  y   prvd 
bot  yn  chwennych.  eithr  yr  hynn  a  rodded  yn  y  ddysgl  gwaMiar- 
edig  fy  rhan  iunau  o'r  wiedd  y  sydd  ynddi^  ac  nid  cennhadedig 
itti  gyffwrdd  aV  ddysglaid  hi^nno  nac  ymdawr  o  \uni\  na  trbymaiut 
ac  edrych  ar  y  sydd  ynddi.  Ufudd  a  Uwyr  ufadd  ith  arch  ath 
orcbymyn,  ac  felly  y  bu  drofl  ycliydig  ddyddiau.  eithr  ar  un  diwar- 
nod  gwedi  ymginiawa  yn  foethua  daeth  chwant  ar  y  giftr  wybod 
pa  ddanteithfwyd  gorcuryw  oedd    yn   y    ddysgl    gviircbaredig, 
a  thra>  aethant  v  gweinyddiaid  oV  ystafell  codiV  gwarrhar  a 


DAMMEGION.  161 

wiiaeth  J  gwr,  a  buan  j  Uemmis  allan  Ijgoden  ac  amgen  na  honno 
nid  oedd  yn  y  ddysgl  ronyn  o  ddim  yn  y  byd.  Yna  y  gweles  y 
gwr  ynfytted  ei  drachwant  ai  orchwilgarwch,  ac  ni  wyddai  gan 
ofid  ôsdon  both  a  wnelai.  a  gwedi  dwyn  ymaith  yr  arlwy  y  cafas  y 
gwr  bonheddig  y  lygoden  ar  goU.  a  danfon  am  y  gwr  a  goleddasai 
atto  a  wnaeth,  Gwel  ebeV  gwr  bonheddig  pa  beth  a  ddaw  o  dra- 
ehwant  a  thrachwilgarwch  tu  hwnt  i'r  faynn  a^th  dorai.  a  nid  digon 
o  bob  peth  wrth  fodd  dy  galon  oedd  genyt.  ai  mawr  o  boen  oedd 
itti  gadw  yr  on  gorchymyn  hynaws  a  roddais  amad  a  gwneuthur 
yr  arch  geisiais  yn  garedig  gennyt  yn  dal  am  y  cyfan  a  roddais 
itti !  eithr  ynawr  am  nas  gwnaethofit  dos  ynol  ir  clawdd  a  ba  le 
a'^th  gymerais  a  bydd  foddlon  neu  anfoddlon  fal  y  gallot  ir  hynn  a 
ddyly'^th  lafar  a'th  orchwyl  yno,  ni  chai  yn  hwy  aros  yma.  ac  ir 
ehiwdd  y  gorfu  amo  ddychwelyd.  ac  yno  y  deallodd  ei  ynfydrwydd 
le  a  weles  mai  gwir  y  ddiareb  gormodd  o  esmwythder  sydd  annodd 
tt  drin — a  cos  din  taeog  ac  efe  a  gach  yn  dy  ddwm.  a,  pa  fwyaf  a 
geffir  mwyaf  i  gyd  a  geisir.  a  ni  wel  y  trachwant  fyth  ai  ddigon, 
ac  ni  wŷl  y  trachwant  fyth  ei  fai  onis  tyrr  ei  wddwg  fal  y  bu  iV 
gwr  aV  lygoden.  a,  Trachwant  a  dyrr  asgwm  ei  gefn  ei  bun,  ac, 
anfoddlon  y  bydd  anfoddlon  er  maint  a  gaíTo.  yn  ail  iV  gwr  ar 
lygoden.  ac  nid  esmwyth  trachwilgar  oni  wyppo  liw  mhennydd  tin 
d.  a,  Trachwant  a  fydd  trachwant  er  maint  y  rhodder  yn  ei  safn. 
a  ni  ymfoddlonir  Vr  corph  oni  cheir  y  coludd,  nac  i  hynny  onis 
ceir  a  fo  yn  y  coludd  a  phan  weler  a  fo  hynny  mwy  fyth  yr  an- 
foddlondeb.  gan  ddiwyno'r  dwylaw  a  fuassai  heb  gael  hynny  yn 
lAn,  felly  y  gwnaeth  y  gwr  a  oUyngwys  yn  rydd  y  lygoden. 


XL  DAMMEG  Y  GWR  A'R  ABWY  YN  EI  LAWES 

Dau  wr  gynt,  au  henwau  Eidiol  ac  Eidwyll  oeddynt  yn  byw 
yn  yr  un  pentref,  a  chan  bob  un  o  honynt  ei  wraig.  glan  a  syw  yn 
ei  gwaith  a^i  gorchwyl  oedd  Gwraig  Eidiol,  a  threfnus  a  doeth 
ymhen  ei  theulu,  a  da  iawn  ei  gair  ymhlith  ei  chymmodogon.  a 
pberchit  ei  gwr  o  barch  iddi  hi.  Aflan.  a  swglyd  a  budreddgar 
oedd  gwraig  Eidwyll  ac  annhrefnus  ac  annoeth  ymhen  ei  theulu, 
ae  nid  oedd  a  ddywedai  air  da  am  dani  ymhlith  ei  chymodogion, 
ac  ammherchit  ei  gwr  oi  hachos.  ac  nid  oedd  namyn  drwg  o  gamp 
ar  bob  gair  a  gorchwyl  iddi. 

AV  gwyr  hyn  ar  ucha  diwamod  o  haf  ar  faes  eu  cysti^ef  yn  lladd 
j^wair.   Eidiol  a  welai  Eidwyll  yn  aflan  ei  wisg  a  brattiog,  ac  aflan 


162  DAMMEGION. 

ac  afiapch  ei  fwyd  aH  lynn.  gofudredd  ac  anferchwch  jmhob  peth 
parth  ac  atto.  ac  amo :  Ac  amgen  na  hjnn  ymhob  peth  Eidid. 
glan  a  threfnus  ci  wisg  ai  ddiwyg  oedd  ef,  glan  a  sjw  ei  fwyd  ai 
lynn.  glan  a  syber  ymarwedd  a  moes. 

Yna  y  dy wed  Eidiol  fal  hynn  wrth  Eidwyll,  Bhyfedd  yw  gen- 
nyf  dy  gynnal  gyda'r  cyfryw  a  feddi  o  wraig.  lie  ni  chai  erni 
namyn  aflwys  ac  aflan,  ac  annoeth  ac  annwyn  ym  mhob  peth.  ac 
ammharch  itti  gan  bawb  oi  hachos.  Arfer,  ebe  Eidwyll.  arfer  a 
wna  gynnefin  ar  bob  peth.  nid  oes  ar  a  welir  yn  y  byd  namyn  oi 
arfer,  arfer  a  ddygymmydd  a  phob  peth.  Arfer  ywV  gwely  esmwyth 
ar  ba  un  y  cwsg  bob  peth.  ni  chlyw  cydwybod  aM  blino  Ue  gor- 
weddo  ar  wely  arfer.  Bu  amser  nas  carwn  a  weli  o  wall,  ac  yr  awr 
honn  nid  yw  gas  gennyf.  eithr  gorwedd  yn  ysgawn  y  mae  ar  {j 
meddwi. 

Nid  felly  y  byddwn  i,  ebe  Eidiol,  eithr  ei  gadael,  a  myned  He 
nas  gwypai  fy  mod,  aV  He  y  cawn  a  fai  wrth  fy  modd.  Ue  naa  caid 
a''m  difwynai  yn  fy  mharch  am  diwyg. 

Mi  dkili  glywaf  ebe  Eidwyll.  ac  yna  tewi.  gan  amdroi  yn  ri 
feddwl  a  wnelai  er  dangos  i  Eidiol  a  ddichonai  arfer  a  chyn- 
nefinder. 

Yr  ail  ddiwamod.  a  hithau'^n  des  cadam.  Eidwyll  a  welai  wisg 
Eidiol  yng  nghwr  Uwyn,  ac  efe  a  wybuV  man  UeMd  oedd  Abwy 
drewllyd,  yna  torri  dameni  o  honaw  a^u  dodi  ym  mhlygiadaa 
Llewys  Eidiol.  yr  hwn  pan  y  gwisgai  ei  ddilledyn  a  glywai 
ddrewdod  aruthrol  yn  ei  amgylch  ac  a  gwynai  ragddo.  a  phob  gair 
atteb  a  gai  gan  Eidwyll  yn  anghyfachos.  cwynaw'n  y  blaen.  cwyn 
ar  ol  cwyn  a  wnai  Eidiol.  oni  leihâes  ei  fynychder,  ac  or  diwedd 
darfod  yn  ddim,  a  thaw  amaw.  ymhen  amser  Eidwyll  a  ofynes  i 
Eidiol  am  y  drewdod.  yr  atteb,  dywedyd  ei  ddarfod,  ac  nas  clywai 
mwyach  .  Felly,  ebe  Eidwyll.  arfer  a  wna  gynnefin  ar  bob  peth, 
a  chynnefin  a  fydd  esmwyth  dan  bob  peth ;  yna  dywedyd  fal  y 
bu.  a  phan  ai  clywes  Eidiol.  Drwy  nerth  Duw.  ebe  fe,  ni  fydd 
pellach  yng  nghyd  tydi  a  mi ;  aros  He  Mdwyd,  a  bydd  ag  ydwyd. 
mwy  nis  byddaf  lie  am  Uygrer  gennyt,  nag  ynghyflvrr  y  gellh 
amaf  gynnefin  a  pheth  ni  wedd  ar  ddoeth,  a  syw,  a  syber.  Felly 
ymwrthod  yn  Uwyr  a  chyfeillach  Eidwyll,  yr  hwn  ni  weddai  ei  fod 
namyn  ar  ei  ben  ei  hunan.  ac  o  hynny  y  cafwyd  y  ddiareb.  Arfer 
a  wna  gynnefin  ar  bob  peth,  fal  y  dyn  aV  abwy  yn  ei  lawes.  a 
chynnefin  a  fydd  esmwyth  ar  bob  peth,  fal  y  dyn  aV  abwy  yn  ei 
lawes.  ar  wely  cynnefinder  o  arfer  y  cwsg  pob  drwg  hyd  £arw.  am 
hynny  gocheler  ymarfer  a  drwg.  ac  ymwrthoder  ac  ef,  ac  eler  Ue 


DAMMEGION.  163 

HM  galler  llwgr  oddiwrtho.  sef  ffoi  oddiwrtho  fal  y  ffoes  Eidiol 
oddiwrth  Eidwyll.  Arfer  drwg  a  wnaV  drwg  yn  arfer.  Ac,  Arfer 
nid  hawdd  ei  anarfer.  a  rhag  ymarfer  &  drwg  ymswyned  pob 
Cnstion,  a  phob  doeth  a  chydwybodus,  a  phoed  felly  fyth. 


Xn.  DAMMEG  CEINAN  FERCH  CEINWAWR. 

Mkbch  oedd  gynt  o  genedl  rîeddawg  y  Cymry  a  elwid  Ceinen 
ferch  Ceinwawr,  a  thecca  merch  dan  haul  ydoedd :  A  myned  a 
wnaeth  y  son  am  dani  ymhell  ag  yn  agos.  aV  pell  fal  yr  agos  gan 
bob  un.  a  phawb  a  chwenychent  yn  fawr  ei  gweled,  a  chyn  ei 
gweled  pob  an  ai  dyfalai  yn  wenn  fal  od  unnos,  arall  ai  dyfalai  yn  ail 
distrych  y  donn,  a  rhai  yn  orlliw  gwynn  y  calch  ar  gaer  gerwyneb 
haul  y  bore,  sef  y  defelid  ei  gruddiau  yn  harddach  na  rhos  ymha 
rai  y  gwelir  pob  cymmysg  o  goch  a  gwynn,  y  naill  yn  cyflodd  y 
Uadd  hyd  nas  gellir  canfod  y  man  y  terfynant  y  lliwiau.  ei  gwefus- 
edd  yn  ddeuliw  gwawr  goleugoch  yn  ymgyfliw  a  gwynder  dydd  o 
fore  haf  tesog.  ei  gwynn  ai  gwrid  y  naill  yn  ymguddio  yn  y  Uall 
ni  welai  neb  ym  mha  le  nac  ym  mha  fodd.  i  bob  melyn  ac  eurlliw 
J  dyfelid  ei  gwallt,  ai  llygaid  gleision  yn  harddach  na  ser  yn  yr 
wybren  gannaid.  ac  am  ei  thwf  ai  hagwedd  nid  oedd  a  fedrai  ddy- 
fida  maint  yr  harddweh  a  gaid  ami.  mal  hynn  y  dyfelid  ar  feddwl 
a  dychymyg  cyn  ei  gweled  gan  lygad.  hagen  yr  un  ai  gwelai  a 
£u-nai  wall  tegwch  erni  un  ai  gwyngalchai'*n  wynnach,  arall  a 
liwiai'^n  gochach  ei  gruddiau,  dodai  arall  amgen  o  wrid  ar  ei  gwefus- 
edd.  duaw  ei  haeliau  gan  un,  gorlliwio'i  gwallt  gan  arall.  rhy  fyrr 
ydoedd  gan  un,  rhy  hir  ymarn  arall.  pob  un  a  fynnai  ei  gwellhau 
yn  y  modd  a  fai  orau  ganthaw  ei  hun,  pob  un  a  famai'n  hagr  a 
femid  yn  hardd  gan  arall.  Gwedi  hir  yrru  ami  a  fernid  yn  hardd 
a  phrydferth  gan  un  a  chan  arall,  ni  ellid  erni  namyn  anhardd 
ac  anferth,  ac  nis  gellid  ami  faint  y  gronyn  Ueiaf  ym  mhelydr 
yr  haul  oi  thegwch  ai  lliw  cyssefin.  a  hitbau  erbyn  hynn  wedi 
myned  yn  atgas  a  gwrthun  yng  ngolwg  pob  dyn,  ac  nid  oedd  neb  ai 
gwelai'^n  hardd,  ac  nis  carai  neb  hi.  nid  oedd  ai  gofwyai,  ac 
ni  chaid  na  chaeai  lygaid  yn  ei  herbyn.  gan  ei  bamu  n  ffieiddaf 
o  bob  peth  yn  y  byd.  a  phan  weles  Geinan  hynny  a  rhyfeddu  yn 
fawr  nad  oedd  ai  hymgeisiai  fal  cynt,  edrych  yn  ei  drych.  a  phan 
y  gweles  hiV  lliw  aV  llun  a  ddodesid  gan  bob  un  ami,  bu  ryfedd 
gantbi,  ac  anfoddloni  ynaruthr,  can  nas  adwaeniad  ei  hunan;  yna 
meddwl  am  ymolch  ac  ymlanhâu  oV  budredd  a  roddesid  emi.  a 

Y 


164  DAMMEGION. 

gwedi  gwneuthur  hynnj  teg  a  serchog  fal  cjnt  ai  gwelid.  a  phob 
un  ai  carai  ac  ai  hymgeisiai,  namyn  j  rhai  a  fynnesjnt  welUuMi  a 
wnaeth  Daw  erddi  fal  j  gwedwyd,  aV  rhai  bjnnj,  cyd  nas  canut 
hi  dan  a  ddodasant  ami,  ai  gwrthenwasant  jn  hagr  ac  yn  anferth. 
gan  nas  mynnynt  nad  iawn  ac  er  gwell  y  cyfan  a  fwriasent  ernL 
canys  nid  hawdd  gan  annoeth  gyfaddef  ei  annoethineb,  ac  ni  fynn 
neb  gydnabod  ei  fai ;  ac  nid  oes  namyn  Dedwydd  a  gais  ymchwel 
ar  a  fo  gwell. 

FellyV  gwirionedd.  pob  un  ai  car  ar  ei  dafod.  a  phob  un  ai 
llygra  drwy  yrra  amawV  badredd  a  garo  fe  ei  hon.  ar  odden  dar- 
wellhâd  iddaw.  Sef  y  dodir  y  mawrgelwyddan  amaw  hyd  nad  elo 
rhith  celwydd  amaw  yn  gwbl,  ac  yna  pawb  ai  cashà.  eitìir  taer  yw 
gwir  am  y  golaa,  ac  ef  a  fynn  er  gwaetha^r  gwaethaf  ymddioBg  ú 
ymgadd  hyd  yn  y  bo  amlwg  fal  cynt,  a  hardd  a  hygar  gan  bawb 
ai  gwelo  namyn  y  rhai  a  fynnesynt  ei  anharddn  a  chelwydd  ú 
lygm  a  thwyll  gyfliwiad,  diau  nis  ceir  gan  y  rhai  hynny  gydnabod 
a  chyfaddef  a  fu  amynt  o  fai  a  chamsyniad,  a  choegddycbymmyg, 
a  thwyll  ymbwyll,  canys  diarheb  a  ddywed,  ni  chydnebydd  ei  fiu 
a  daerawdd  ei  fod  ar  y  iawn  ;  a  dyngodd  y  fran  yn  wenn  ni  chyf- 
addef, cyd  y  gwypo  gystàl  aV  goreu  ei  bod  yn  ddu.  ac  a  dwyllo 
arall  efe  a  dwylla  ei  hunan  yn  fwy.  pawb  a  geisiant  y  gwir  ac  nis 
gadawant  ir  gwir  fod  yn  wir.  ac  un  a  hir  yrroV  celwydd  ar  gred  ai 
cred  ei  hunan  oV  diwedd. 


DAMMEG  ARTHUR  A'R  HANNER  DYN» 

Fal  yr  oedd  Arthur  yn  rhodio  ynghyntefin  dydd,  ag  yn  Nydd 
Cyntefin  Haf,  ar  hyd  Dolydd  gwyrleision  meillionddail  arogleaber, 
a  phob  blodeu  gwydd  a  gwaen  yn  eu  llawn  harddwch  o  gylchon  ag 
adar  caneugar  ymhob  llwyn  ag  ar  bob  colfen  deilgoed  a  dolgwm  yn 
^7  ^rgyd  trisaeth  o  ddinas  Freiniol  Caerlleon  ar  wysg.  a  hofider 
calon  ganddo  ganfod  harddwch  a  thirionwch  yr  awr  ar  cyfarwel  yn 
nechre  mandes  dydd  haf  ysplennydd — ef  a  welai  rywbeth  o  led- 
hirbell  yn  dyfod  tuag  atto.  yn  egwan  a  golesg  ei  daith  fal  y  tybid 
nis  delai  tan  ymhen  undydd  a  blwyddyn  hyd  tricham  y  dryw  tnag 
atto,  edrych  o'i  amgylch  a  wnai  Arthur  ac  ef  ynghanol  ei  wynfyd 
ni  selwai  ronyn  ar  yr  eiddil  o  bell  a  welasai  ar  farw  troa  fyth.  ond 
gan  droi  ymhen  ennyd  fechan  ei  olwg  tua  chammen  y  ddol.  ef  a 

*  Gan  Taliesiiiy  mcdd  lolo  Morgan vrg. 


DAMMEGION.  165 

welaiV  peth  a  welasai  braidd  hannercyn  yn  ol,  yn  dyfod  yn  nes  atto 
nawran  y  fibrdd  a  buanach,  etto  gwan  ag  eiddil  ydoedd,  edrych  o'i 
gjlch  a  wnai  Arthur,  a  myfyrio  dial  ar  y  Saeson.  a  pheri  difant 
Uwyr  arnynt,  a  chan  edrych  eilwaith  oi  amgylch  efe  a  welai  megis 
lledertbyl  banner  dyn  yn  dyfod  iddei  gyfarfod,  ni  ellid  ynddo  a 
ofiiai  Arthur,  a  gwrandaw  ar  gan  yr  adar  a  wnai,  onid  oedd  yr 
hanner  dyn  yn  ei  gyfwysg,  yn  ei  gyfarch  yn  Uyn  dydd  da  itti 
heddyw  Arthur,  dydd  da  i  titheuV  hanner  dyn,  bydd  ydyw  a  fyn- 
nit !  Mi  a  fynnwn  ymdrech  cwymp  a  thi,  pa  glod  a  gaf  o  ymdrech 
cwymp  a  hanner  dyn,  ebe  Arthur,  dos  iHh  fibrdd.  ac  edrych  ar 
wyneb  y  gksdon  blodeudardd  a  wnai.  Arthur  ti  a  etiferi  ebe'r  Ued- 
erthyl,  a  myneb  yn  ol, — ^boreu  nesaf  y  daeth  Arthur  ir  un  man 
a  Thrystan  ab  Tallwch  y  gydag  ef.  a  Thaliesin  Ben  Beirdd.  a 
dyfod  oV  hanner  dyn  erthylaidd  fal  y  dydd  o'r  blaen  a  chyfarch  a 
gofram  i  Arthur,  ymdrech  ac  ef  ebe  Taliesin.  mal  y  gorffer  cyn  y 
bo  dyn  cyfan.  ni  ddaw  imi  glod  yn  y  byd  o  ymdrech  ac  erthyl 
ebe  Arthur,  a  rhodio  hyd  obeli  y  ddol  a  wnai  ar  Erthyl  yn  cyf- 
areh  Tryatan.  a  Thrystan  ynghyngor  Taliesin,  ai  cyrchwys  pa  les 
i  mi  ymdrech  ac  am  beth.  ebe  ef  am  dy  ben  Trystan,  eber  erthyl, 
ac  ymdrech  wrth  gyngor  Taliesin  a  wnaeth  a  rhoi  Uawr  iV  erthyl, 
ti  a  ennillaist  fy  mhen  eber  erthyl.  do  ebe  Trystan  a  pha  les  imi 
hynny.  os  caf  er  werth  genyt.  ti  a  weli  dal.  cymmer  dy  ben  yn 
rhad  ebe  Trystan.  ni  fynnaf  i  ben  neb  namyn  clofii  troed  buanach 
na  chyfiawn 


DAMMEG  Y  LYGODEN  AR  GATH. 

Y  Lltgoden  gynt  a  oedd  yn  rhodiaw  mewn  Tafam  Gwin,  ac  o 
ddryg  ddamwain  hi  a  gwympawdd  mewn  pylleid  oV  g^vin  gerbron 
T  tunelleu.  ac  yno  Uefain  er  nerth  a  orug,  ac  wrth  y  Uef  y  Cath  ar 
frya  a  ddaeth  ac  a  ofynodd  pa  ham  ydd  oedd  hi  yn  Uefain  felly : 
a^'r  Llygoden  a  ddywawd  am  y  mod  i  ym  mherigl  o'm  bywyd  ac 
na  allaf  ymryddhau  heb  nerth.  ac  yna  dywawd  y  Cath  ''  beth  a 
roi  di  imy  er  dy  ryddhau  a'th  dynnu  oddiyna""  ?  aV  Llygoden  a 
ddywawd  "beth  bynnag  a  erchych  mi  a'i  gwnaf ""  "  oV  myni  di  i 
mi  dy  nerthu  yr  awr  honn  mi  a  fynaf  it  ddyfod  attaf  pan  yth 
alwyf  gyntaf ;  a  hynny  a  wnaf  fi  yn  Uawen  heb  y  Llygoden  ;  moes 
dy  gred  ar  hynny  heb  y  Cath,  a'i  chred  a  roes  y  Llygoden  y  gwnëi 
a  fynnei  hi. — ac  yna  y  Cath  a  estynnavvdd  ei  half,  ac  a  dynnawdd 
y  Llygoden  oV  pwU  ac  ai  gollyngawdd  yn  rhydd  i  redeg  rhagddi. 


166  DAMMEGION. 

a  threiglwaith  pan  yttoedd  y  Gath  jn  rhodiaw  a  dirfavrr  newyn 
amaw,  dyfod  cof  a  wnaeth  iddaw  ei  ammod  a^r  Lljgoden.  ac  ir 
fiys  dyfod  a  orug  lie  gwyddiad  fod  llochwes  y  Llygoden,  a  dy- 
wedyd  oV  tu  maes  aH  lawnllef, ''  y  Llygoden  dyred  ymma  attaf  fi 
i  oeges.  Pwy  wyt  ti  ?  heb  y  Llygoden.  y  Oath  wyf  fi.  heb  ynteu. 
na  ddeuaf  rhof  fi  a  Duw,  heb  y  Llygoden.  Pam !  heb  y  Cath,  poni 
roddaist  ti  dy  gred  ar  ddyfod  attaf  fi  pan  harchwyf  it !  le,  heb  y 
Llygoden,  brwysg  oeddwn  i  yna,  ac  am  hynny  ni  chynhaliaf  fi 
ammod  yr  awr  honn. 

Felly  yn  awr  llawer  oV  bobl  pan  font  gleifion  nea  mewn  perigl 
a  addawant  wellhau  eu  bachedd  ac  na  wnelont  byth  gammwedd  yn 
erbyn  Duw  na  dyn.  Eisioes  pan  ddyhangont  o  hynny  ni  chynhaliant 
ddim  o'u  haddewid,  gan  ddywedyd,  ie,  mewn  perigl  yr  oeddem  ni 
yr  amser  hwnnw,  ac  am  hynny  nis  cynhaliaf,  megis  y  dywedir 
am  ryw  longwr  gynt  a  oedd  mewn  garw  fordwy  a  pherigl  ol 
fywyd ;  ac  addaw  a  orug  i  Dduw,  er  ei  amddifiyn  o  hynny  y 
byddei  wr  da  tra  fei  fyw.  a  phan  ddaeth  ef  Yr  Ian  ac  iV  tir  duys, 
dywedyd  a  orug :  aha !  lesu !  mi  aHh  dwylleis  yn  wir  yr  awr 
honn :  ni  byddaf  wr  da  etto  !* 


*  Tynnedig  o  adysgrif  lolo  Moiganwg,  a  gymmerodd  ef  o  Gaagliad  Dam- 
megion  Owain  MyPyr,  a  hwnnw  o  hen  Ysgrif  ar  Femrwn  tua'r  flwyddjrn 
ISOO.—Ab  loLO. 


HEN  DDAMMEGION. 


I.    DAMMEG  CENFIGEN  YN  LLOSGI  EI  HUN 

Talhaiarn,  Bardd  ydoedd  a  gwr  dysgedig  a  chall  a  da  oedd  efe. 
a  mab  oedd  iddo  ai  enw  ef  oedd  Tanwyn  a  gwedi  rhoddi  dysg  ac 
achlesn  dawn  ac  awen  jn  y  mab  hynny  hyd  onid  oed  yn  wr 
gwybodns  a  chelfydd  a  fedrai  ar  bob  doethineb  a  gwybodau  daionus 
yn  gyfon  a  phob  cydwybodolder  a  dwyfolder,  a  phob  harddwch 
ymddwyn  parth  ac  at  Ddyw  a  Dyn.  efe  a  elwis  Dalhaiam  ei  fab 
atto  ar  ddiwarnod.  ac  a  ddywed  wrtho  fel  hyn.  Fy  mab  Tan- 
wyn fy  onig  am  hanwyl  fab  ydwyd.  mi  ath  gerais  ac  ath  feithrin- 
aia  fal  y  gweddai  i  dad  parth  ag  at  fab  a  gararn  anwyl.  mi  a'th 
athrawiaetbais  ymhob  celfyddyd  a  gwybodaeth  daionus  ac  ymhob 
ymddwyn  gweddos  ac  aHh  wnelai  fsd  y  barnwn  yn  wr  a  fedrai 
ddaioni  a  gwasanaeth  iHh  wlad  ath  genedl  ac  i  bob  byw  or  byd.  ac 
a^th  wnelai  yn  wr  a  garai  bob  deddfol  dy  feddu  yn  wr  wrth  achos 
gwr  a  gwlad  a  chenedl.  ac  yn  benna  dim  yn  a  gai  fodd  Duw  yn  y 
byd  hynn  ac  yn  y  byd  a  ddaw.  gweli  gan  hynny  imi  wneuthur  fy 
rhan  a  chywiro  fy  nyled  tuag  attat.  ac  yn  awr  fy  mab  anwyl  nid  oes 
gennyf  na  thai  na  thir,  itti.  nac  aur  nac  arian  na  gwisgoedd  gwychion 
na  meirch  na  thlysaa  o  ba  ryw  bynnag.  am  hynny  fy  mab  y  mae^n 
orfod  amof  o  anfodd  fy  serch  tuag  attad  erchi  itti  ymadael  ath 
dad  ai  dy  a  myned  lle'^th  arweinir  gan  Dduw  aHh  dynged  i  wneu- 
thur dy  fyd  ac  ynill  dy  fy wyd.  nid  oes  na  lie  nag  achos  i  rhoddi 
addysg  a  chyngor  ymhellach  itti  nag  a  wnaethum.  eithr  yn  yr 
hynn  a  wettwyf  ynawr  wrthot.  sef,  na  rhodia  ffordd  newydd  He  na 
bo  torr  pont  ar  yr  hen  ffordd,  na  chwennych  Bendodaeth  lie 
gelli  gael  cariad  yn  ei  le.  ac  na  ddos  heibioV  He  bo  doeth  a  dwyfol 
yn  athrawiaethu  ac  yn  thraethu  gair  a  gorchymyn  Duw  heb  aros 
iddei  wrando.  Ac  yna  myned  a  wnaeth  Tanwyn  o  Dy  ei  dad  gwedi 
caffael  ei  fendith  ai  weddi  ar  Dduw  drosto  ac  nas  gwyddai  ba  le 
yr  elai  eithr  myned  gan  Dduw  ai  dynged,  onid  aeth  efe  lleV  oedd 
traeth  hir  a  theg  ar  Ian  y  mor  a  ffordd  iddo  drosto.  a  theg  a  llyfn 
oedd  y  traeth  a  thanwyn  a  ysgrifenwys  a  blaen  ffon  ac  oedd  yn  ei 
law  y  geiriau  hynn  nid  amgen.  a  ddgmuno  ddrtrg  iddei  gymmydog 


168  DAMMEGION. 

iddo  ei  hunan  y  daw,  ac  Arlwydd  cyfoethog  ac  aberthog  iawn  yn 
ei  weled  o  beth  wrth  farchogaeth  yn  ei  erbyn.  a  gwedi  myned  y 
naill  heibioV  Hall  gan  gyd  gyfarch  moesdeg  a  chamaidd.  y  gwel« 
wy s  yr  Arlwydd  yr  ysgrifen  ar  y  tywod  a  gwedi  gweled  ei  hardded 
ai  chelfydded  fe  a  droes  ei  farch  yn  ei  ol  a  marchogaeth  yn  dyn 
oni  ddaeth  ef  yng  ngorddiwedd  Tanwyn.  ai  tydi  ebeV  Arlwydd  « 
ysgrifen wys  ar  y  tywod  ?  ie  ebe  Tanwyn,  gad  imi  ebe'r  Arlwydd, 
dy  weled  yn  ysgrifennu  etto,  mi  a  wnaf  hynny  ebe  Tanwyn,  ac 
ysgrifennu  a  wnaeth  yn  deccach  nac  oV  blaen  y  geinau  hynn. 
gcyrm  canwyUpwyü  i  ddyn.  iba  le  yr  wyt  yn  myned  ebe'r  Arlwydd, 
i'r  byd  i  ynnill  fy  mywyd.  ebe  Tanwyn.  yn  y  lie  aV  modd  y  myn- 
no  Duw,  ac  y  mettrwyf  inneu.  Tydi  ebe^r  Arlwydd  yw'r  gwr  y 
sydd  arnaf  ei  eisiau.  a  ddewi  di  gyda  mi  a  bod  yn  wr  imi  i  drefou 
fy  nghyfoeth  am  Teulu  a  thi  a  gai'n  wobr  dy  ofyn,  gwnaf  ebe  Tan- 
wyn, beth  ywHh  ofyn  o  gyflog  ebeV  Arlwydd  y  peth  y  dal  fy 
ngwasanaeth  ebe  Tanwyn.  ym  marn  y  gwybodus  a>  cyfiawn.  pan 
ai  gweler.  or  goreu,  ebe  arlwydd.  dyna  ammod  deccaf  a  glywais 
erioed  am  deni.  A  myned  a  wnaeth  Danwyn  gan  yr  Arlwydd  a 
chael  ganddo  y  pendod  ar  ei  gyfoeth  ai  deolu.  a  Thanwyn  yn  trefii 
naor  ddoeth,  ac  yn  ymddwyn  mor  gywir.  ac  yn  atteb  y  gofynion 
amo  mor  gyfiawn  fal  y  carai  yr  Arlwydd  a  phawb  oi  deulu  ef.  a 
phan  daeth  amser  talu  cyflog  yr  arlwydd  ai  rhoddes  ar  £um  d 
ddoethion  ai  wyr  gwybodus  a  deddfolion.  a  bamn  a  wnaeth  y  ddaa 
cymmaint  yn  gyâog  i  Danwyn  ag  a  roddai  neb  arall  yn  unman 
i''r  goreu.  a  phan  glybuV  Arlwydd  a  famwyd  efe  a  wnaeth  y  gyf^ 
log  yn  ddau  cymmaint  ac  a  roddesid  ar  fam.  ac  ymhen  amser  yr 
aeth  Clod  Tanwyn  mor  fawr  am  ddoethineb  a  chariad  a  ehyfiawn- 
der  a  phob  gwybodaeth  daionus  a  gwerthfawr  ac  na  fynnai  bended 
ar  neb  eithr  cadw  ynghariad  pob  dyn.  gan  wneuth  cariad  a 
chyfiawnder.  a  dys^  doethineb  a  daioni  fibrdd  yr  elai  ar  achlysnr 
a  gaffai  aV  holl  amser  a  feddai  yn  ol  y  cyngor  a  roddes  ei  dad 
iddo.  Gwr  doeth  a  chall  ydoedd  yr  Arlwydd  a  gwybodus  a  chyn- 
nilgamp.  ond  pan  welwys  ef,  a  chlywed  fod  Tanwyn  yn  uwch  Á 
glod  nag  ef  am  bob  campau  a  gwybodau  moliannus  cenfigenu 
wrtha  a  wnaeth  efe.  a  gwedi  gweled  o  ddydd  i  ddydd  clod  ei  wr 
yn  mwyhau  ai  glod  ei  hun  yn  Ueihau,  ymgais  a  dichellion  a 
wnaeth  a  chael  gwyr  i  gyhuddo  Tanwyn  o  frad  ac  anghyfiawnder 
ac  anghywirder  a  wnaeth  ef,  ond  Tanwj^n  o  Iwyr  bwyll  a  doeth- 
ineb a  ddygwys  yr  anudon  i'r  amlwg  onid  aeth  bam  gwlad  a 
chyfraith  ar  yr  anudonwyr  a'u  crogi  oil.  gwedi  hynn  diccack  diccach 
beunydd  wrth  Danwyn  oedd  yr  Arlwydd  er  lleied  yr  achos,a  bwriadu 


DAMMEGION.  169 

eî  ladd  ef  a  wnaeth.  yr  gantho  ef  y  pryd  hynny  odyn  galch 
ar  waith,  a  myned  a  wnaeth  ef  ben  boreu  at  y  calchwyr  a  dywedyd 
wrthynt  fal  hynn.  "  Y  mae  gwr,  ebe  fe,  sydd  elyn  imi  yn  amcanu 
dwyn  Arlwydd  o  Estron  yn  ormes  im  cyfoeth  am  difeddiannu  om 
tir  am  daear  am  gwlad  am  cywiriaid,  am  gwyr  ffydd,  a^'n  oil  chwi 
a  minnaa  yn  gaethion  dano  a  gyrru'^n  aeth  wlad  lawer  o  honom 
yn  enwedig  chwi  ac  eraill  o''m  ffyddloniaid  a  garaf  yn  orenon  oil, 
ymae  ef  ar  hynn  o  bryd  yn  gwesteia  gyda  a  phei  gellid  ei 
ddihenydda  ef  da  fyddai  hynny  a  diogelder  inni  oil.  yna  tyngu  a 
wnaiV  calchwyr  y  llosgaint  hwy  ef  yn  yr  odyn  peî  gwypynt  pwyn 
ydoedd,  chwi  a  gewch  wybod  hynny  ebe'r  arlwyd  wrth  hynn  o 
arwydd,  self  y  cyntaf  a  ddel  attoch  gwedi  yr  ymadawyf  a  chwi  ar 
hyd  y  ffordd  a  wnaethum  o'm  ty  parth  ac  ymma,  a  dangos  hael- 
ioni  toag  attoch  hwnnw  y  bydd  efe,  teflwch  ef  iV  odyn  a  gwedi 
hynny  mi  a  ddawaf  a  mwy  haelioni  yn  fy  llaw  ich  gobrwyo  a 
a  hynny  a  gyttunwyd  amo.  myned  iddei  dy  a  wnaeth  yr  Arlwydd 
a  galw  Tanwyn  atto.  a  dywedyd  fal  hynn  wrtho  :  y  mae  imi,  ebe 
fe.  wyr  yn  llosgi  wrth  yr  odyn  ar  ben  y  ffordd  newydd,  dos  ar 
hyd  y  ffordd  honno  attynt  a  thai  iddynt  eu  cyflog  yn  aur  ac  yn 
arían.  a  rhoddi  dros  ben  en  gofyn  yn  syberwyd  a  haelioni  fal  y 
caro  dy  galon.  a  rho  iddynt  gwrw  a  medd  a  fynnont,  a  dos  ar  hyd 
y  ffordd  newydd.  tewi  a  wnaeth  Tanwyn  gan  feddwl  am  gyngor  ei 
Dad  Talhaiam.  a  chymmeryd  arian  ac  aar  a  grenn  o  fedd  yn  ei 
afael  a  hynny  yn  haelionus  yn  ol  cennad  ei  Arlwydd  a  bodd  ei 
galon.  a  myned  parth  aV  odyn  a  wnaeth  eithr  ar  hyd  yr  hen 
ffordd.  yn  ol  arch  ei  dad.  ac  ar  y  ffordd  efe  a  glywai  mewn  Ty  ar 
ei  neilldu  wr  doeth  a  duwiol  yn  traethu  gair  Duw  a  doethineb,  a 
throi  i  mewn  iddei  wrando  a  wnaeth  Danwyn.  ac  aros  yno  encyd 
lie  clywai  lafar  dwyfolder  a  doethineb.  yn  y  cyfencyd  yr  Arlwydd, 
ac  efe  yn  bwrw  erbyn  hynn  nad  oedd  lai  na  bod  Tanwyn  yn  ulyf 
man,  a  feddylwys  fyned  at  yr  odyn  i  weled  ac  i  glywed  fel  ac  y  bu. 
ar  hyn  o  bryd  nid  oedd  ond  gweision  dierth  yn  wyr  wrth  arch  ac 
ammod  y  calchwyr  wrth  yr  odyn  y  rhai  nis  adwaenant  eu  har- 
Iwydd.  a  chwedi  clywed  a  chael  gorchymyn  a  deddf  gan  eu  pen- 
dodwyr,  ar  arlwydd  yn  dangos  haelioni  a  chwedi  cyrchu  yno  ar 
h yd  y  ffordd  newydd,  hwy  ai  tawlasant  ef  heb  air  uwch  nai  gilydd. 
Vr  odyn  ai  Uosgwyd  ef  yn  ulyf.  ac  ymhen  ychydig  llyma  Danwyn 
yn  dyfod  at  yr  odyn  ai  aur  ai  arian  ai  rennfedd 


170  DAMMEGION. 

II.    DAMMEQ  CENFIGEN  YN  LLOSGI  EI  HÜN 
(Dull  amrafaely  herwydd  ysgrif  arall) 

Ir  Cwtta  Cyfarwydd  o  Forganwg  yr  oedd  mab  a  elwid  Hywel 
ag  ef  a  ddysgwyd  gan  ei  dad  ymhob  Gampau  Glodfawr  a  gwybod- 
au  Llesawl  i  ddyn  ei  harfer.  a  Hywel  wedi  cyrraedd  oedran  gwr  a 
chwennychodd  ymadael  a  thy  ei  dad  ag  olrain  ei  ddigwydd  ar 
glawr  Byd.  ag  wrth  ymadael  ef  a  roddes  ei  Dad  iddo  j  Gyngor 
hyn  sef  nad  elai  fytli  heibio  i  bregethiad  gair  Daw  heb  aros  i 
wrando.  felly  Hywel  a  aeth  ymaith  a  gwedi  trafaelu  encyd  efe  a 
ddaeth  i  Lan  y  mor  LleV  oedd  y  ffordd  ar  hyd  draethen  hird^ 
Lefn.  a  hywel  a  blaen  ei  ffon  a  ysgrifenodd  ar  y  tywod  yr  hen 
ddiareb  hon.  sef  a  ddymuno  ddncg  itv  gymodog  iddo  ei  hun  y  daw. 
ag  ar  ei  waith  ef  yn  ei  ysgrifenu  Llyma  Arlwydd  Ardderchog  yn 
ei  orddiwes  ag  wrth  weled  decced  yr  ysgrifen  efe  a  wybu  mae  gwr 
amgen  na  Dyn  gwladaidd  Cyffredin  ydoedd  Hywel.  a  gofyn  iddo 
a  wnaeth  o  bleV  hanoedd  a  phwy  ydoedd  ag  i  ba  le  yr  oedd  ar 
fyned.  a  hywel  a  roddes  iddo  fonheddigaidd  attebion  i'^r  cyfim  a 
ofynodd  iddo,  ar  Arlwydd  a^i  hoffodd  yn  fawr  a  gofyn  iddo  a 
ddeuai  ef  i  fyw  gydag  ef  yn  ysgolhaig  Teulu  er  trin  a  threfna  iddo 
bob  achosion  Dysg  a  gwybodaeth  ag  addo  iddo  gyflog  a  weddai  i 
wr  bonheddig.  ag  felly  cyttuno  a  wnaeth  Hywel  ag  ef  a  myned  i 
fyw  gydag  ef.  ar  hoU  fonedd  yn  Arlwyddi  a  Marchogion  a  ddenant 
i  ymweled  ar  Arlwydd  hynn  a  ryfeddasant  wrth  ddysg  a  Doeth- 
ineb  Hywel.  ai  fawr  ganmol  a  wnaent.  oni  fagodd  yr  Arlwydd 
gynfigen  wrtho  am  ragori  mor  fawr  amo  mown  Doethineb  a  dysg 
a  bonheddigeiddrwydd.  a  chlod  Hywel  a  gynyddodd  beunydd  ag 
am  hynny  yn  gydfesur  y  cynyddai  cynfigen  yr  Arlwydd  ei  feistr. 
oni  feddyliodd  o>  diwedd  ddihenydd  ag  angan  i  Hywel.  ag  tin  di- 
warned  efe  a  achwynodd  wrth  ei  Arlwyddes  am  fawr  ddrygau  ag 
amharch  a  wnaethai  Hywel  iddo,  ag  ymgynghori  a  hi  a  wnaeth 
am  ei  ddihenyddio.  a  hi  herwydd  ei  mawrserch  tuag  atto  a  feddyl- 
iodd y  ffordd  y  gwnelid  hynny  yr  oedd  gan  yr  Arlwydd  ar  ei  dir 
galchwyr  yn  Uosgi  Caleb,  ar  Arlwyddes  a  aeth  attynt  ag  a  roddes 
iddynt  swm  fawr  o  aur  dan  ammod  dafluV  i  mown  Yv  odyn  y  Gyntaf 
a  ddelai  attynt  a  grenaid  a  fedd.  a  hwy  a  addawsaht  wneuthor  felly, 
ar  Arlwyddes  pan  ddaeth  adref  a  ddywed  yr  ystryw  wrth  yr  Ar- 
lwydd ei  gwr,  a  hwy  a  lanwasant  renn  fawr  a  medd  ag  a  archasant 
i  Hywel  ei  ddwyn  at  y  Galchwyr,  a  Hywel  a  gymerüi  y  Grenn  ag 
ai  ddygodd  tua>  odyn  ag  ar  y  ffordd  efe  a  glywai  mewn  Ty.  hen 


DAMMEGION.  171 

irr  Dawiol  yn  darllain  Grair  Duw,  a  throi  i  mewn  a  wnaeth  ef  iw 
wrando  ag  aros  yno  encyd  yn  ol  cyngor  ei  dad,  a  chwedi  r  encyd 
hyn  o  aros  yr  Arlwydd  a  fẁrwodd  yn  ei  fryd  fod  hywel  erbyn 
hynny  wedi  ei  losgi  yn  yr  odyn,  a  gymerth  rennaid  araU  o  fedd  yn 
obrwy  Vt  Calchwyr,  ag  ef  pan  ddaeth  at  yr  odyn  a  gymerwyd 
gan  y  Calchwyr  ag  a  daflwyd  i  dan  yr  odyn  ag  a  losgwyd  yno'  a 
chyda  ei  fod  yn  trengu  y  daeth  Hywel  yno  ai  rennaid  fedd.  ag 
wrth  weled  ladd  ei  Arlwydd  fal  hynn  a  ddygodd  y  Calchwyr  ger- 
bron  Ynad,  ag  yno  cyfaddefasant  fal  ai  gobrwywyd  gan  yr  ar- 
Iwyddes  am  losgiV  cyntaf  a  ddelai  a  grenaid  medd  iddynt,  ag 
inaeV  Arlwydd  oedd  hwnnw.  a  gwedi  holiV  Arlwyddes  y  cafwyd 
allan  y  gwir  fal  y  bu,  ag  fal  hyn  y  Uosgodd  Cynfigen  eu  hunain,  ag 
a  fa  gair  Daw  yn  gadwraeth  ag  amddiffyniad  ir  sawl  ai  parchodd 


m.    DAMMEG  Y  DIAL 

Pah  oedd  Cynlas  ab yn  Arlwydd  Morganwg  yr  oedd 

iddo  fah  a  elwid  Cadoc  yn  wr  Duwiol  iawn  ag  yn  Sant  o  Gor  111- 
tvd,  ag  ef  yn  nhy  ei  Dad  ar  ddiwamod  fe  ddaeth  Eurych  heibio 
ag  ef  a  geisiwyd  i  loywi  tlysau  aur  ag  arian  yr  Arlwydd  Cynlas 
ag  wedi  darfod  a'i  waith  ai  goden  yn  agored  ef  a  gymmerth  Langes 
o  weinidoges  ffiol  arian  ag  ai  dodes  ynghoden  yr  Eurych  ynghudd 
dan  ei  peirianau  ag  fellyV  Eurych  a  gaeodd  ei  goden  ag  a  aeth 
ymaith  yr  oedd  Cadoc  ar  ddigwydd  yn  gweled  y  cwbl  ag  a  wnaeth- 
pwyd.  wedi  gweled  eisiauV  ffiol  dilyn  yr  Eurych  a  wnaethpwyd  a 
ehael  y  ffiol  yn  ei  goden  ag  am  hynny  ei  roddi  yngharchar,  eithr 
Cadoc  a  feddyliodd  ynddo  ei  hun  na  adawai  Dduw  yr  hwn  sydd 
gyfan  gyfiawn  gospiV  Eurych  diddrwg  diniwed  eithr  ei  ryddhau 
o*T  gosp  ar  gwradwydd,  eithr  amser  Barn  a  ddaeth  a  chafwyd  yr 
Eurych  yn  euog  ag  felly  ei  Grogi,  a  phan  welodd  Gadoc  hyn  efe  a 
feddylodd  nad  oedd  un  Duw  neu  ynteu  nad  oedd  gyfiawn  am 
adael  o  bono  i'r  Eurych  diddrwg  ar  gwirion  gael  ei  grogi  ar  gam, 
ag  felly  y  daeth  arno  anghred  am  Dduw  a  daioni  ag  ef  roddes  ei 
fryd  ar  wynfyd  a  digrifwch  y  Byd  ymhob  modd  ag  a  ellid  ei  gael. 
heb  bris  am  na  chrefydd  na  chyfraith,  ag  wedi  iddo  ddarfod  ai  gyf- 
oeth,  efe  a  gymmerth  farch  ag  arfau  ag  a  aeth  i  goed  trwy  ba  le  yr 
oedd  fibrdd  fawr.  a  gwyr  cyfoethogion  yn  mynych  dramwy  r  fibrdd 
honno,  ai  fwriad  oedd  yspeilio  ar  bawb  a  ddelaiV  fibrdd  honno  eu  cyf- 
oeih.  a  gwedi  gMmeuthur  ei  le''n  y  Coed,  efo  a  welai  megis  Arlwydd 
cyfoethog  o  hen  wr  yn  dyfod  ar  hyd  y  fibrdd,  ag  yn  arfog,  eithr 

z 


172  DAMMEOION. 

Cadoc  ag  ynteu'n  wr  glew  ynghyfnod  oedran  gwroldeb,  a  aeth  i 
gyfarfod  aV  arlwydd  ag  a  archodd  iddo  ei  aur  ai  arian  yn  ddirwg- 
nach  ddiymgis.  na  chai  ebeV  Arlwydd  er  dy  fod  tfii  leuane  a 
miniiaa''n  hen  mi  ymbrofaf  a  thi  am  fy  meddiant  drwy  neiih  arfav 
a  glewder,  o'r  goreu  ebe  Cadoc  parod  wyf  fi,  eithr  ebeV  hen  wr 
ynghyntaf  torrwn  bobei  fedd  fal  y  bo  parod  le  i  gladda  yr  an  a 
ladder  fal  na  bo  mwy  son  am  dano  o  ewyllys  fy  nghalon  ebe  Cadoc, 
ag  felly  myned  a  wnaethan  i  dorri  pobei  fedd  ag  wrth  ei  toiri 
cafwyd  ymhob  un  or  beddau  esgym  Dyn,  gwel  yma  ebeV  hen  wr 
y  rhain  ydynt  esgyrn  dau  ddyn  a  laddodd  yr  Eorych  a  grogwyd 
am  ffiol  dy  DsCd  am  ei  cyfoeth,  ag  un  o  honynt  oedd  Tad  y  Langes 
a  roddes  y  ffiol  yn  y  goden.  ag  wrth  hyn  gwel  mai  cyfiawn  yw 
Daw,  ag  ni  oddef  Vt  Drwg  ddiangc  yn  ddigosp,  eithr  hwyra  IMal 
Dial  Daw.  a  Llwyra  dial  dial  Daw.  Ti  a  welaist  ddodiV  ffiol  yn  y 
goden  eithr  ni  chefaist  north  a  Chennad  gan  Dduw  iw  adrodd  am 
y  mynei  ef  gospiV  Eurych,  ag  o  hyn  allan  Dysg  hyn  o  wers  sef 
nas  gelli  weled  y  modd  y  mae  Daw'n  gweithreda  ei  gyfiawnder 
nai  ddoethineb,  nai  dragaredd,  gad  Ddaw  iddei  Ddoethineb  ei  bun 
can  ni  wedd  ar  ddyn  ei  fama  yn  ei  drefn  achelddoeth  ai  ddoeth- 
ineb annimadwy,  a  gwel  ei  dragaredd  ef  yn  dy  arbed  di  rhag  coep 
drwy  fy  nanfon  i  i'th  waredu  ag  ith  ddysg  pan  nas  dirperit  eithr 
y  grogbren  ar  ba  an  y  crogwyd  yr  Eurych.  rhy  ddisglair  yw 
Daw  i  ddyn  edrych  amo  ai  weled.  ag  felly  ei  weithredoedd  ai 
rhag  drefniad,  a  chydaV  geiriau  hyn  efe  welai  Gudoc  ef  m^gia 
gwr  leuaqc  glanbryd  iawn  ó*t  prydferthaf  a  welsai  erioed  ag  wrth 
hynny  y  Gwybu  mae  angel  or  nef  ydoedd,  a  dychwelyd  adref  a 
wnaeth  a  gwedi  dygwydd  cyfoeth  iddo  efe  a  wnaeth  iawn  i  bawb 
am  yr  aniawn  a  wnaethai  ef  iddynt  a«^  a  roddes  i'^r  tlodion  yn 
helaeth  ag  a  ymwrthododd  a''r  Arlwyddiaeth  gan  adeiliadu  Cor  yn 
Llancarfan  i  drichant  o  seintiau  ag  efe  a  nhwy  a  fuant  fawrglod 
am  Dduwioldeb  ag  elusenwaith  gan  Ddewis  gwasanaeth  Daw  o  - 
flaen  pob  gwynfyd  a  digrifwch  daearol.  gan  gyfrif  Cyfoeth  ag;— 
urddas  Byd  yn  ddim  wrth  Dduw  a  Duwioldeb 


IV.  DAMMEG  Y  DYLLÜAN  Y  GOLOMEN  AR  YSTLYM 

Y  Glomen  ar  Dylluan  gynt  yn  ymdaith  a  ddaethant  ynghlais 
nos  at  hen  ysgubawr  lie  yddaethant  i  letya  y  nos  honno  yn  jt 
hen  ysgubawr  honno  ddoedd  pengordd  yr  ystlumod  gyda  ei  deala 
yn  anneddu,  a  wedi  gweled  o  hono  y  dieithraid  yma  efe  a^u  gw«- 


DAMMEGION.  173 

hoddwys  hwynt  i  gwynosa  atto,  a  wedi  bwytta  ag  yfed  eu  gwala 
ar  gnyw  fwydydd  a  phergryf  ddiodydd,  yna  y  codes  y  Dylluan  ag 
a  ddechreuwys  ymarfawl  y  Cordd  yn  y  modd  yma  a  dywedyd  0 
ardderchoccaf  ystlum  dirfawr  yw^th  haelioni,  anrhaethglod  di,  ni 
famwn  neb  yn  gymhryd  a  thi  ath  lesinwych  deulu,  ag  adwaen 
im  oefl  dy  gyfal  am  Len  a  dysgwybodaeth,  gwrol  wyd  naV  naV 
Eryr  a  theccaf  a  gwychach  naV  paun,  a  dy  lais  yn  gynghaneddach 
nag  Eîddo'r  Eos,  yr  ystlum  a  fu  orfalch  gantho  y  canmolwawd.  yma 
a  disgwyl  ydoedd  Tr  glomen  ei  areithio'^n  gydwedd,  ond  y  glomen 
a  eisteddodd  yn  wyl  wrth  y  bwrdd,  heb  wneuthur  na  syniaeth  na 
selwyd  ar  a  ddywaid  y  Dyllaan  eithr  troi  yn  y  man  a  wnathoedd, 
a  diolch  yn  foesweddol  i  Gordd  yr  ystlumod  am  ei  letyaeth  a'i 
haelioni,  heb  roi  iddo  fwy  o  ganmolwawd,  ar  hynny  weleV  hoU 
denla  yn  Edrych  yn  hyguch  ar  y  glomen  ag  yn  bwrw  sarugwawr 
ami  a  beiaw  ei  hafoesoliant,  ag  achliw  iddi  ei  hammonedd,  ai  syml 
daeogyd,  am  nas  amarfawlasai  y  pencordd  yn  ddisyml  foneddig- 
aidd,  meis  a  wnathodd  y  Dylluan  sef  y  dywaid  y  glomen  ei  bod 
yn  anghara  trutheiniaw  a  darllidiaw  y  wnaeth  yr  holl  gymdeith- 
on  a  gorchurasant  hi  yn  anaelau  ag  ai  troesant  hi  allan  yn  nyfn- 
der  y  tywyllnos  garwhinog,  i  rynnu  a  dychrynu  oni  ddaeth  y 
wawr  ag  yna  hi  a  ehedwys  at  yr  Eryr  ag  achwyn  a  wnathoedd,  ar 
yr  ystlumod  ar  Dylluan  ag  ynaV  Eryr  a  dyngwys  os  yr  ystlum 
ar  Dylluan  a  ymddangosai  byth  liw  dydd  ar  ol  hynny  y  byddai  i 
holl  adar  y  byd  ei  beiddiaw  ai  amherchi,  ag  efe  a  ganiattawys  iV 
Glomenod  fyth  ar  ol  hynny  y  caent  helfu  ynghyd  er  ymddiflfyn  eu 
hunain  ai  cashaai  ag  ai  perchis  o  hynny  allan  yn  erfawr  am  ei  di- 
druth  wirionedd.  ond  ni  welwyd  helf  o  ystlumod  na  dylluanod 
byth  wedi  hynny,  Uyma  barch  yn  argoroni,  gwirionedd  didwyll  ag 
ammarch  a  gwarth  yn  gefynu  trutheiniant 


V.    DAMEG  Y  GEIFR  Y  DEFAID  AR  BLEIDDIAID 

Rhtfel  a  ddigwyddwys  gynt  rhwng  y  Geifrod  ar  Defaid.  ar 
Defaid  mewn  darofh  ag  anghalondid  a  feddyliasant  mai  galon 
fiymig  y  geifrod,  oeddynt  y  bleiddiaid  heb  ystyr  ei  bod  cyffymic- 
ced  galon  iddynt  hwyV  defaid  hefyd  a  erfynasant  eu  hadorth  yn 
erbyn  y  geifrod.  hynny  a  gawsant  dan  ammod  y  caent  hwy  y 
bleiddiaid  yr  holl  eifrod  a  liasid  yn  y  frwydr:  a  chyttuno  a 
wnaethant :  ag  i  ryfel  ydd  aethant,  aV  holl  eifrod  a  laddasant  aV 
holl  brainiau  ag  ysglyfaethon   a  gafas  y   bleiddiaid  a  mawr   a 


1 74  DAMMEOION. 

gloddestus  wleddon  a  wnaethant  a  chig  y  geifrod.  ag  jmlenwi  a 
wnaethant  a  Mawr  fu'r  rhialwch  ond  pan  derywV  ystoriant 
brwysgl  e  feddylwys  y  bleiddiaid,  gwympo  yn  nesaf  ar  y  Defaid 
ag  felly  y  gwnaethant  ag  a  ddewisant  yr  wyn  goreu  a'r  gweddrod 
brasa  or  hoU  gorfa,  er  cael  y  blysig  fwythaa  a  drachwantant,  ar 
Defaid  a  ddargwynasant  achos  y  camwedd  yma  ar  afles  a  ddioddef- 
ynt,  ond  ni  chawsant  fael  o^u  cwyn,  eithr  y  bleiddiaid  a  daerasant 
ar  y  Defaid  dorri  o  honynt  ffrion  y  cyn  ammod,  a  ¥maet]iant  ar  j 
cyntaf.  ar  defaid  pan  oedd  ry  ddiweddar  a  welasant  maint  en  di- 
synwyrdeb  ai  hafanas  am  gyttuno  o  honynt  fal  hyn  eriod  ar 
bleiddiaid,  a  thra  etifar  y  bu  ganthynt  feddwl  iw  hoed  am  erfyn 
adorth  yr  Enfilod  anhrugar  a  rheipus  hynny,  o  henrydd  ni  adaw- 
saint  yr  un  o  honynt  yn  fyw  oni  fuasai  er  oynnal  y  &gwriaeth  er 
cael  gwastadawl  amhaethunon  a  seigiau  gloddestus.  a  phoed  felly 
y  darffo  i  bawb  a  fy  cyn  fyrred  eu  cynwelwg,  ar  De&id  hynny. 


VI.    DAMEG   Y  MARCH  OWYLLT 

Gynt  yr  oedd  March  lefangc  gwyllt  ynghelltydd  glyn  daronwy. 
a  dyfod  a  wnaeth  un  boregwaith  hyd  yn  ymyl  dol  Gynon,  ag  mewn 
maes  pawrlas,  ucheldwf,  efe  a  welai  farch  dof  yn  pori  meillion  a 
ffwynwair,  blodeuog,  ag  yn  yfed  dwfr  o  nenig  sisellog  a  li&i  fid 
ffrwd  o  ariant  toddianus,  rhwng  dwy  fiVyneg,  yn  Uawn  rhoglon  a 
fflorion  glasdyfiant  mai.  heb  ef,  pa  ynfytted,  wyf  aros  im  oed  yn  j 
gelltydd  coedwysawg  accw  lie  ni  chaf  ond  garwellt  anhyflys  anhy- 
sawr,  iw  fwytta  a'r  He  ni  chaf  well  danteithion  na  manfrig  eor- 
wyddos  iV  cnoi.  yn  ol  hir  drafferth  iV  hysgythm,  a  Ue  raid  im 
yfed  0  fudmant  na  wenis  yn  wyneb  haul  erioed  a  rylif  dan  gya- 
godwydd,  deilgoU  ar  a  chlai  waelod.  mi  af  ir  ddol  geinlas  accw  i  bori 
meillion  a  ffwynwellt  hefindwf,  ag  i  yfed  or  nennig  glaerlif  henlr 
bryd,  ag  i  gysgu  mewn  gwely  esmwythber  ofanwellt,hyroglablodaa 
hyfflawr,  a  byddaf  fyw  fal  gwr  bonheddig  fal  i  dirper  im  gwaedol- 
edd,  a  fal  y  bonheddiccaf  a  mwy  nid  af  i  blith  y  syml  daeogfeirch 
a  rygais  y  gwylltfaloedd  accw,  lie  nid  oes  na  lien  na  chyfoeth  nag 
unrhyw  wynfyd  bynnag,  ag  a  chyrch  hyred  a  wnaeth  ag  eagud* 
naid  a  gymer\vys,  a  melltenu  tros  yr  ammid  yspydd-adrill,  yn  fiMirr 
ei  wyn,  ag  yn  eidiog  ei  nwyf  a  diffri'og,  flys,  a  phan  yttoedd  yn  y 
dyffrynfaes  gwyranlasdwf  ef  a  fwrwys  drem  diystyrllydfalch  Tr 
gelltydd  Uei  ddoedd  ei  berthynasau  ai  gyfeillion,  anwrydna  dmein- 
iaid  heb  ef,  pa  hab,  y  cerwch   y  diffeithfa  symleiddwyllt   yn% 


DAMMEGION.  175 

byddwch  wrydus  fal  y  mau  a  mwynhewch  y  dedwyddyd  ar  es- 
mwythyd  y  sydd  yn  y  ^^wynfydfa  hwiin.  yna  ydd  attebwys  hen 
Éwrch  synhwyrgall  ef.  yr  hwnn  a  welasai  lawer  o  drafferthion  a 
throfeddaa  Byd,  ag  a  welasai  lawer  lewydyn  penchwiban  yn  di- 
oddef  diriant  alcur  achos  ei  ynfydrwydd  diystyryd.  eb  ef  y  roae 
etto  n  rhy  ebrwydd  yt  wynfydu  am  nis  gweli  trallod  sy'n  orchys- 
ylltedig  ar  ffugwynfyd  yna,  ag  os  gwnai  gyngor  ath  car,  Dere  i 
maes  oddiyna  ar  frys  ag  na  ohiria  ffrysto,  caethfarch  ywV  accw  a 
weli  a  gwynfyd  pa  on  a  chwenychi  gymmwyd,  a  chaeth  fydd  y 
tan  oddieithr  yt  ffestiniaw  a  nerth  bryd  a  cham  oddiyna  ond  y 
march  ieuangc  a  ffromchwerthwys  ag  droes  yn  ffroenuchel  ymaith 
ag  ni  wrandawys  ar  ddoeth  gyngorion  yr  hen  farch  callwyddos. 
ag  ni  bn  hir  cyn  dywod  o  berchenog  y  ddolfaes  gyda  i  arthgwn, 
ai  waedgwn,  a  weision,  ai  rwydau  rheffynaidd  ai  ddal  ai  ffrwynaw, 
ai  ystamo,  ar  diwamod  nesaf  e  orfu  amo  fyned  i  glud  coed  a 
ehynnyd  or  allt  He  buasai  gynt  yn  rhodio  ag  yn  caffael  pob  cynnes 
wynfjrd.  yn  rhydd  anghaethawl  heb  wybod  pa  beth  oedd  dwyn 
tiymlwyth,  y  caethfarch.     Diwedd. 


Vn.     DAMEG   YR  EOS  AR  HEBOG 

Yb  Eos  gynt  a  ymfalchiwys  yn  ddirfawr  herwydd  ei  pherlais  a 
phob  edn  ai  gwheniaethai  ag  ai  galwai  Elen  y  glasgoed  a  Duwies 
y  Dail  ag  a  roddynt  iddi  lawer  iawn  o  druthbarch,  ar  fwyalchen  a 
ddaeth  iw  charu,  ag  ef  a  eirluniwys  ei  serch  iddi  mewn  alseiniau  a 
charolau  melysgaingc,  ag  ag  a  draethwys  ei  gariad  mewn  llawer, 
cywydd  llaidd,  ag  amrylen  difost,  ar  fronfraith  a  luniwys  ir  Eos 
pft  gystal  gwr  oedd  y  fwyalch,  maint  ei  Leg  ai  ddysgc  a  gwirioned 
a  mwyned  gwas  ydoedd,  heb  yr  eos  ni  waeth  itti  daw  a'th  ffreg  ath 
£ableg,  mi  a  fynnaf  gwreiddach  a  milwreiddach  a  thywysogeiddach 
gwr  noV  Mwyalch,  ar  hynny  e  ddigwys  y  fronfraith  wrthi  ar  holl 
mààr  eraill  oedd  geraint  iddi  sef  yr  hedydd  ar  linos  ar  gog  a  llawer 
mwy  o>  ednod  gwaraidd  a  geisiai  ei  lies,  yna  hwy  a  ffoasant  locc, 
a  gwedi  myned  o  honynt,  e  ddaeth  yr  hebog  atti  ag  ai  dammeir- 
chwys  fal  hyn  tydi  Duwies  y  glyngoed,  ag  awenyddes  y  llwyni 
call  a  doeth  oeddyt  am  na  wrandawast  ar  y  gwail  gynghoriaid  a 
fynynt  wyraw  dy  wyrthus  fryd  at  eu  crinlles  cybyddaidd  eu  hun- 
ain  heb  ystyr  y  gwynfyd  dau  myfi  yw  twysog  yr  adar  ag  eistedd 
vr  wyf  ar  ddeheulaw  yr  Eryr,  a  hir  wyf  yn  dwyn  poen  a  hiraeth 
ini  calon  oth  serch  nid  hafal  dy  ffrinc  ath  glesyddiaeth  un  organ 


176  DAMMEGION. 

na  thelyn  a  Bread  arswydus  yw  melusaf  lais  a  cherddi  r  adar  oet 
fyddgaingc  lie  i  bot  anhyall  imi  adrodd  maint  fy  serch  attot  nid 
hyall  imi  fod  yn  wynfydus  os  ti  am  digar,  canniatta  imi  nesâu  attod 
a  moeslawn»  raith  ag  hyfuU  galon,  mal  digelwyf  fy  serch  am  hir- 
aeth.  Dwyn  ag  almyg  yw  dy  gallineb  a  thyner  yw  dy  nwyd.  ag 
ni  chair  a  edwyn  dy  fath,  yr  eos  a  fu  falch  glywed  ei  gweniaithaw 
fel  hynny  ag  heb  ystyr  ei  anian  hi  ai  wahoddwys  ef  atti.  Dere^n 
nes  (ebe  hi  wrth  yr  hebog)  herwyd  deall  wyf  mai  bonheddig 
urddasol  wyd.  da  iawn  yw'^th  foneddigfoes,  a  helaeth  yw  dy  wydd- 
iant,  myfi  a  wrandawaf  ar  dy  ddoeth  gyngor  ath  fwyn  foneddig 
lafar,  dynesau  a  wnaeth  yr  hebog  atti  ag  yna^n  fiian  ef  ai  yegip- 
wys  ymaith  ag  a  Uaddwys  ag  ai  Uewis,  a  phoed  felly  y  darpho  i 
bawb  ni  wnel  gyngor  ai  car.  ag  a  wirgoeliant  Dmthfawl  ag  a 
wrthodent  orthelydawg,  gynnygion,  y  gwir  Ddoethion.     Diwedd. 


Vm.     DAMMEG  EINION  AP  GWALCHMAI 
A  RIAN  Y  GLASGOED 

EiNioN  ap  Gwalchmai  ap  Meilir  o  Drefeilir  ym  Mon  a  briodes 
Angharad  ferch  Ednyfed  Fychan  ac  efe  ar  an  bore  teg  o  haf  yn 
rhodio  coedydd  Trefeilir  efe  a  ganfa  Bhiain  dlosfain  a  thra  hardd 
ei  thyfiant  a  manylbryd  ei  hwyneb  ai  lliw  yn  rhagori  rhag  pob 
coch  a  gwyn  yng  ngwawr  boreddydd  a  manod  mynydd  a  rhag  pob 
harddliw  ym  mlodau  coed  a  maes  a  mynydd.  ac  yna  efe  a  glywai 
ferw  serch  anfeidrol  yn  ei  galon  a  myned  nes  atti  a  wnaeth  yn 
fonheddigaidd  ei  foes  a  hithau  yn  ynmeshau  atto  ynten,  ac  efe  a 
gyfarches  iddi.  a  hithau  ai  hadgyfarches  yntau,  a  gwedi^r  ymgyf- 
arch  traserchogaidd  rhyngddynt  efe  a  weles  ei  mwynder  ai  threm- 
iadau  Uygadlon  ac  a  wybu  y  gallai  ef  a  hi  a  fynnai  a  myned 
ynghyd  a  wnaethant  modd  yr  a  gwryw  a  benyw  ynghyd,  a  gwedi 
cael  ei  flys  efe  a  ddisgwyles  ar  ei  throed  ac  a  welad  mae  camaa  yn 
He  traed  oedd  iddi,  a  digUoni  n  fawr  iawn  a  wnaeth  efe,  eithr  hi  û 
hattebes  mae  ofer  oedd  iddo  ei  ddigllondeb  ac  ni  thalai  ronyn  iddo, 
rhaid  itti  ebe  hi  fy  nilyn  lie  bennaV  elwyf  tra  pharwyf  im  blodan, 
cans  hynny  y  sydd  oV  serch  fy  ryngom,  yna  efe  a  ddeisyfee  ami 
roi  cennad  iddo  i  fyned  iw  dy  i  gymmeryd  ei  gennad  a  chanu  yn 
iach  i  Angharad  ei  wraig  ai  fab  Einion.  myfi,  ebe  hi,  a  fyddaf 
gyda  thi  yn  anweledig  i  bawb  onid  ti  dy  hunan,  dos  ymwel  ath 
wraig  ath  fab,  a  myned  a  wnaeth  ef  ar  ellylles  gydag  ef,  a  phan 
welwys  Angharad  efe  ai  gwelai  yn  wrach  mal  un  wedi  goriien- 


DAMMEGION.  177 

eiddio,  ond  cof  dyddiau  a  fuant  oedd  ynddo  a  thraserch  atti  fyth 

ond  nis  gallai  ymddattod  oV  rhwym  oedd  amo,  y  mae  yn  rhaid 

imi  ebe  fe  ymadael  dros  amser  nis  gwn  ba  hyd  a  thi  Angharad  ac 

a  thithau  fy  mab  Einion  a  chydwylaw  a  wnaethant  a  thorri  mod- 

rwy  aur  y  rhyngddynt  a  wnaethant,  efe  a  gedwis  un  banner,  ac 

Angharad  y  llall,  a  chymdymganu^n  iach  a  wnaethant  a  myned 

gyda  Bhiain  y  Glasgoed  a  wnaeth  ef  ac  nid  wyddai  i  ble.  cans  hud 

gadam  oedd  amo,  ac  ni  welai  le  yn  y  byd  na  dyn  oV  byd  na  pheth 

oV  byd  ba  bynnag  yn  ei  wir  wedd  a  lliw  ond  yr  banner  modrwy 

yn  anig,  a  gwedi  bod  yn  hir  o  amser  nis  gwyddai  ba  cyd  gydaV 

ellylles  sef  Bhiain  y  Glasgoed.  efe  a  fwris  olwg  ar  un  pen  bore  mal 

y  gwelaiV  haul  yn  codi  ar  yr  banner  modrwy  ag  e  feddylis  ei  dodi 

yn  y  man  anwyla  ganddo  yng  nghylch  ei  gorph.  ac  yna  amcan  ei 

dodi  dan  amrant  ei  lygad,  ac  fal  yr  oedd  efe  yn  ymegnio  gwneu- 

thur  hynny  efe  a  welai  wr  mewn  gwisg  wen  ac  ar  farch  gwyn 

manodliw  yn  dyfod  atto,  aV  gwr  hwnnw  a  ofynes  iddo  ba  beth  yd- 

oedd  efe  yn  ei  wneuthur  yno,  ac  efe  a  ddywed  wrtho  mae  araul 

cof  clwyfus  am  ei  briod  angharad  oedd  efe.  A  chwennychit  ti  ei 

gweled  ebeV  gwr  gwynn.  chwennychwn  ebe  Einion  yn  fwyaf  o 

holl  bethau  a  gwynfydauV  byd.  oes  felly  ebeV  gwr  gwyn  esgyn  ar 

7  march  yma  iscil  imi,  a  hynny  a  wnaeth  Einion,  a  chan  edrych 

o'*i  amgylch  ni  welai  efe  drem  yn  y  byd  ar  Biain  y  Glasgoed,  sef 

yr  Ellylles  eithr  ol  camau  aruthrol  eu  maint  a'u  anferthwch  fal 

ar  daith  tuaV  Gogledd.  pa  orbwyll  sydd  arnat  I  ebe'r  Gwr  gwyn, 

ynaV  attebwys  Einion  ac  a  ddy waid  oil  mal  ac  y  bu  rhyngtho  aV 

Ellylles,  Cymmer  y  ffon  wen  hon  i'th  law  ebeV  Gwr  Gwyn  ac 

£inion  ai  cymmeres,  aV  gwr  gwyn  a  erchis  iddo  ddymuno  a  fynai 

ac  efe  a  gai  ei  weled,  y  peth  cyntaf  a  ddymunes  efe  oedd  g^veled 

Rhiain  y  Glascoed  cans  nid  oedd  efe  hyd  yma  wedi  llwyr  ymrydd- 

hau  o>  hud,  ac  yna  hi  a  ymddangoses  yn  Widdones  erchyllbryd 

anferthol  ei  maint  canmil  niwy  aflan  mwy  aflan  ei  g\vedd  naV  aflan- 

af  o  bethau  aflan  a  welir  ar  glawr  daear  a  rhoddi  bloedd  ofnadwy 

gan  ddychryn  a  wnaeth  Einion.  aV  gwr  Gwyn  a  fwris  ei  wisg  dros 

Einion  a  mewn  llai  na  gwinced  y  disgynnes  Einion,  fal  y  dymunes 

ar  Grefn  Trefeilir  ar  ei  dy  ei  hunan,  lie  ni  adnappai  efe  nemawr  o 

ddyn  na  neb  yntau.  Gwedi  myned  o'r  Ellylles  oddiwrth  Einion  ap 

Owalchmai  myned  a  wnaeth  hi  hyd  yn  Nhrefeilir  yn  rhith  gwr 

urddasol  o  Bendefig  Arglwyddiaaidd  breiniol  yn  hardd  a  thra  chost- 

us  ei  wisg,  ag  yn  anfeidrol  y  rhif  ar  ei  Aur  a'i  Arian.  ag  yntau  ym 

mlodau  ei  oedran  sef  dengmlwydd  ar  hugain  oed,  ac  efe  a  roddes 

lythyr  yn  Haw  angharad  ac  yn  hwnnw  dywedid  fod  Einion  wedi 


178  DAMMEGION.  ? 

marw  yn  Llychlyn  er  mwy  na  naw  mljnedd,  ao  yna  dangos  ei  ur 
a**!  urddasoldeb  i  Angharad  a  wnaeth,  a  hithau,  wedi  bwrw  llawer  oi 
hiraeth  ymaith  yngfiyfamgoU  ainser,  a  wrandewis  ar  ei  lafar  aerch- 
ogaidd  ef,  aV  hud  a  sy rthwys  ami,  ag  o  weled  y  gwnelid  hi'n  bendefi- 
ges  urddasol  tros  ben  o  beth  a  welid  neb  yng  Nghymm  hi  a  enwis 
ddydd  ydd  ymbrioda  hi  ac  efe.  a  pharottoad  mawr  o  bob  hardd  a 
cho9tus  o  wisgoedd  a  bwydydd  a  diodydd,  ac  o  bob  ardderchog  o 
wahoddedigion  urddasol  a  phob  rhagorgamp  cerddonon  a  thant  a 
phob  darpar  g^vledd  ac  Anvest  Uawenydd,  a  gwedi  gweled  oV  Pen- 
defig  Urddasolbryd  rhyw  Delyn  harddwych  yn  ystafell  Angharad 
efe  a  fynnai  ei  chanu  a'r  Telynorian  oddent  yno,  goreuon  Gwlad 
Gymru,  a  brofasant  ei  chyweinaw  ac  nis  gallent,  a  phan  ydoedd 
pob  peth  peth  mewn  parottoad  i  fyned  ir  Eglwys  i  bnodi.  fe  ddaeih 
Einion  iV  Ty.  ag  Angharad  a^i  gwelai  ef  yn  hen  ŵleiríach  gwyw- 
Uyd  blorwynwallt  yn  crymu  gan  oedran  ag  yn  wisgiedig  a  chaip- 
iau,  a  hi  a  ofynes  iddo  a  drothai  ef  y  ber  tra  phobit  y  cig,  gwmif 
ebe  efe,  ac  a  aeth  ynghyd  a'r  gwaith  ai  ffon  wen  yn  ei  law  ar  wedd 
gwr  yn  dwyn  ffon  fendigaid,  a  gwedi  parottoi  ciniaw.  a  phawb  oV 
corddorion  yn  ffaelu  a  chyweiriawV  delyn  i  Angharad,  j  codas 
Einion  ac  ai  cymmerth  yn  ei  law  ac  ai  cyweiriawdd  ae  a  chvreris 
amiV  gaingc  a  garai  Angharad,  a  synnu  yn  anfeidrol  a  wnaeCh  hi» 
a  gofyn  iddo  pwy'^n  ydoedd,  YnaV  attebwys  ef  ar  gan  ac  Eingljn 
fal  hynn. 

Einion  aur  galon  am  gelwir  o  gylch 
Fab  Gwalchmai  ab  Meilir 
Fy  hud  ehud  bu  ohir 
Drwg  yn  nhŷb  am  drigo'^n  hir. 

Pa  le  y  buost  ti  ? 

Ynghent  ac  yngwent  yngwydd  ym  Mynwy 
Ym  Macnol  Gorwennydd 
Ag  yn  Nyffryn  wynn  fab  Nudd 
Gwel  yr  aur  gloyw  ywV  arwydd. 

ag  a  roddes  iddiV  fodrwy. 

Nag  edrych  lewych  goleuwyn  y  gwallt 
Lie  bu  gwyllt  fy  Nhremyn. 
Llwyd  heb  gel  He  bu  felyn 
BlodauV  bedd,  diwedd  pob  dỳn 


DAMMEGION.  179 

Y  blaned  fa^n  hir  im  blino  madwys 
Ym  ydoedd  newidio 
Ni  chad  angharad  o  ngho'* 
Eingan  aeth  itti  ^nangho\ 

Ac  nis  gallai  hi  ei  atgofio  ef  Yna  j  dywed  ef  wrth  y  gwa- 
hoddedigion. 

Os  coUais  a  gerais  deg  eirian  ei  nwyf 
Merch  Ednyfed  fychan 
Ni  choUais  ewch  chwi  allan 
Na'm  gwely  nam  ty  na'm  tan 

Ag  yna  rhoiV  ffon  wen  a  wnaethoedd  yn  Haw  Angharad  ag  yn 

gyttrem  a  hynny  hi  a  welai  yr  Ellyll  a  welsai  hi  or  blaen  yn  ben- 

defig  harddbryd  Urddasol,  yn  anghenfil  anfeidrol  ei  anferthwch  a 

Uywyga  gan  ei  ofn  y  gwnaeth  hi  ac  Einion  ai  hymgeleddes  hi 

onifl  dadlymunes,  a  phan  agores  hi  ei  llygaid  ni  gwelai  yno  naV 

Ellyll  na  neb  oH  wahoddedigion  na  neb  oV  Cerddorion,  na  dim  yn 

y  byd  eithr  Einion  ai  mab  ar  Delyn  ar  ty  yn  ei  drefn  cartrefol  ar 

guiio^n  bwrw  ei  hanwedd  rhogleddus  ar  y  ford  ag  eistedd  i  lawr 

ÌW  fwytta  a  wnaethant  Einion  ac  Angharad  a'u  Mab  Einion  a 

mawT  iawn  y  buV  Uawenydd  iddynt,  a  g\i'elasant  yr  hud  a  roddes 

yr  Ellyll  cythreulryw  amynt ;  ag  wrth  hyn  o  ddigwydd  y  gwelir 

mae  serch  ar  degweh  a  mwynder  rhieinaidd  yw  hud  mwyaf  ar  wr. 

a  thrachwant  urddas  ai  rodres  ai  gyfoeth  ywV  hud  mwyaf  ar 

wraig.  ac  nis  anghofia  gwr  ei  wraig  briod  oni  edrycho  ef  ar  degweh 

arall  o  ferch  na  gwraig  ei  gwr  pried  onis  edrych  ar  gyfoeth  a  golud 

*c  ^Uirhydedd  o  rodres  Arglwyddiaidd  a  gwychder  balchineb 

ac  felly  y  terfyna. 
Hopkin  ap  Thomas  o  Dir  Grwyr  ai  gwnaeth. 

Í  Alewn  Tynysgrif   arall,  y  mae  a  ganlyn  yn   ddernyn  anor- 
Plietà^dig.— Ab  Iolo.] 

^'^-^itmaV  Gyfarwyddyd  a  wnaeth  Hopcin  ap  Thomas  o  Ynys 
^^3^,  am  a  fu  ar  Einion  ap  Gwalchmai  o  Fon  a  Rhiain  y  GIsls- 
S^-»  sef  oedd  honno  Gwyddones  o  Ellylles  ai  hudawdd  ef  naw- 
®*y^^^dd  ar  hugain,  aV  modd  y  cafas  ei  waredu  o  rwymau  hud  a 
ddoA^^j  hi  amaw. 

*^^xiiawn  ap  Gwalchmai  ap  Meilir  ap  Mabon,^&c  o  Fon  oedd  wr 
bon^^^g  Q  Bendefig  urddasawl  ag  vn  dyfod  Llinolin  o  Lvwarch 

2a^ 


180  DAMHEGION. 

ap  Bran  un  o  bymtheg  Llwyth  Owynedd,  ai  Wraig  ef  oedd 
Angharad  Vch  Ednyfed  Fychan  o  Fan  a  X  Vch  L.  LI.  ap  BB. 
ei  fam.  A  Mab  oedd  iddaw  or  Wraig  honno. 


IX.  DAMMEG  Y  GWR  GOLUDOG* 

Amser  gynt  ydd  oedd  mewn  plwyf  ryw  wr  mawr  o  Aiglwydi 
goludog  yn  byw;  a  mwyaf  ei  olud  ai  gyfoeth  o  dai  a  thiroedd  ag  o 
aur  ag  arian  a  phob  da  byd,  ag  o  swydd  ag  urddas  o  neb  yn  ẃ 
ardal  oedd  ef ;  ag  archa  pen  boreu  ar  dorriad  gwawr  wedi  trydy 
ganiad  y  ceiliog  fe  glywyd  llaferydd  yn  datgan  daiigwaith  yn 
groyw,  nid  amgen  na  hynn,  "Heno  nesaf,  y  nos  heno  nesaf  y  bydd 
marw  y  gwr  mwyaf  a  chyfoethoccaf  yn  y  PlwyT*  a'r  son  a  ddaeth 
i  ben  yr  Arglwydd  hynny,  am  a  glywyd  ar  lafar  ysprydol  me^ 
oV  nef.  ag  oi  glywed  y  bu  mawr  ei  dristweh  a  danfon  am  y  goren- 
on  o  bob  meddygon  pell  ag  agos.  a'r  rhai  hynny  yn  gwiliad  wrth 
ei  wely  yn  ddiymbaid,  gan  weini  pob  meddyginiaeth  iddaw  a 
ellynt  eu  dwyn  ar  gof  a  gwybod  a  deal,  a  phob  ymborth  bywyd  a 
ellit  gael  ar  ddeall  myfyrbell,  y  nos  a  ddarfu,  er  ei  weled  gan  yr 
Arglwydd  mawr  lawn  gyhyd  ag  oes  gwr,  a  thorri  gwawr,  ag  ym- 
lawenhau  mawr  a  fu  gan  yr  Arglwydd  mawr  ai  holl  gdraint  ei  fed 
yn  fy w.  gyda  chyfodiad  haul  dyma  gloch  yr  Eglwys  yn  myned. 
Cnill  dyn  wedi  marw.  a  danfon  ag  eitha  brys  i  ofyn  pwy!  atteb  a 
ddaeth  taw  hen  wr  o  gardottyn  dall  a  thlawd  a  gaid  yn  fynych  yn 
eistedd  yn  fwy  na  banner  noeth  ar  ymyl  y  ffordd  yn  gofyn  car- 
ded ;  ag  er  cael  gan  ambell  arall.  byth  nas  celai  gan  yr  Arglwydd 
mawr  cyfoethawg  ei  gymmhlwyf.  a  phan  glybuV  Arglwydd  efc  a 
ddywedwys  fal   hynn.  Da  iawn   y  gwyddwn  mai  Lleidr  a  jrwr 
Twyll  a  Ghribddail  oedd  yr  hen  was  diriaid,  a  chan  nad  oes  iddaw 
na  phlant  na  pherthynas,  myfi  yw  Arglwydd  y  oyfoeth  ag  i  mi 
wrth  gyfraith  gwlad  y  mae  holl  olud  yr  hen  Gi  digydwybod, 
Myned  a  chwilio  r  Ty'n  fanolbwyll,  ag  ynddo  ni  chaid  namyn 
Bwmel  o  fanwellt  a  chlustog  frwyn  ar  hen  wr  yn  farw  amynt.  ag 
yn  y  Ty  nid  oedd  na  bwyd  na  diod  na  than  na  dillad  rhag  anwyd 
a  gwelwyd  mai  o  newyn  ag  anwyd  y  bu  farw  yr  hen  Fendwy.  ag 
0  weled  hynn  trist  afrifed  y  buV  Arglwydd  cyfoethog,  ai  gym- 
meryd  yn  fawr  at  ei  galon.  a  gwedi  ymdristhau  llaweroedd  o  ddi- 
warnodau  a  gweddio  ar  Dduw,    ^^daeth  ar  gof  iddaw  mai  gwyn  ea 

♦  0*r  Ynialea  Fach,  medd  lolo  Morganwg. 


DAMMEGION.  181 

byd  y  Tlodion  golychwydawl  ag  iddynt  hwy  y  Golud  ar  Cyfoeth 
yng  Ngwen  wlad  Nef  ag  o  hynny  allan  ymroddrn  olychwydawl 
y  gwnaeth  ef.  gan  roddi  cardodau  a  gwneuthur  llusenau,  a  phob 
gweitbredoedd  dwyfolion  a  bucheddolion  byd  raccyrcb  einioes,  a 
gwaddoli  Grefydddai  ag  Eglwysau  a  Llusendai,  a  Gblafdai,  ag  ya- 
golion,  a  gwared  pob  Tlodi  ag  angen  a  gaffai  nag  yngolwg  nag 
yngblyw,  ag  felly  marw  yn  sant  golycbwydawl,  ag  ei  awr  ddiwedd 
ei  eiriau  ef  fal  bynn.  "  Mi  a  gaf  fyned  at  fy  ngwell,  mi  a  gaf  fyned 
at  yr  ben  feudwy.  a  gwyn  fy  myd  bynny  cyd  bwyf  sam  dan  ei 
draed  ef.  ar  awr  y  bu  farw  clywyd  llafar  Angylion  yn  canu  groes- 
aw  Gwynfyd  iddaw  ag  efe  a  gladdwyd  yn  ol  ei  ddymuniad  ym 
medd  yr  Hen  Feudwy.     Ag  felly  terfyna. 


X.   DAMMEG  Y  CARDOTTYN  DALL. 

Dtn  dall  oedd  gynt  yn  byw  ar  gardawd  a  gelai  gan  un  ac  arall, 
etto  yn  fawr  iawn  ei  cbwant  a'i  fwriad  ar  gynnull  DaV  byd,  a  cbyn- 
null  goludoedd  aor  ac  arian,  a  tbrwy  bynn  bod  yn  wr  Mawr  yn  ei 
wlad:  Un  diwamod  wedi  cael  Uonaid  gren  bridd  o  laetb  ai  dwyn 
adref  ai  rboi  ar  ogil  y  partb  fe  eisteddwys  i  lawr,  a  cban  fyfyrio 
rbywSunt  yn  dawedig  —  f e  ai  clywid  ar  fyrr  yn  llafani  fal  bynn  : 
mi  a  wertbaf  bynn  am  fygant  ag  a  brynaf  gyw  lâr,  bonno  a  ddwg 
immi  wy  bob  dydd  dros  amcan  deg  o  amser,  gwertbaf  y  wyau, 
ag  a  gadwaf  yn  gynnil  cynnil  am  a  gaffwyf  am  danynt,  a  rhai  a 
ddodaf  dan  y  lâr  a  pban  eisteddo,  bi  ai  deer  yn  gywain  immi,  a 
pban  ddelont  i  faint  mi  au  gwertbaf  am  bris  bynn  a  bynn.  ag  ir 
Andras  gwyllt  os  gwertbaf  un  i  Ddyn  or  Byd  am  lai  na  bynny  ; 
|Hrynaf  ddafad  aV  arian,  a  bi  a  rydd  immi  laetb,  a  gwlan,  ag  wŷn, 
gwertbaf  y  llaetb  aV  gwlan  am  y  pris  goreu.  ac  am  a  orfudd  ar  a 
fo  acbos  anbepcor  wrtbynt  ei  roddi  am  danynt  na  bod  bebddynt, 
a  byddont  bebddynt  os  na  cbaf  am  danynt  y  gwertb  am  boddlono ; 
gwertbaf  y  gwrrywod  oV  wyn  befyd,  am  bris  ni  ry  neb  ond  ang- 
henus.  y  Benywaid  mi  au  cadwaf  yn  ddefaid  mammogion.  ag  yn 
unwedd  aV  boll  wyn  a  pbob  petb  arall  oddiwrtb  fy  nefaid  a  eUir 
eu  troi  yn  gèd  ag  ynnill,  ymben  amser  bydd  modd  gennyf  i  bryn 
Tai  a  tbir  lie  bo  goreu  daear,  a  dwr,  a  diogelwch,  a  pbob  daoedd 
eraill,  am  gwnelo  yn  wr  golud  a  cbyfoetb,  ar  pryd  bynny  os  daw 
nn  ag  arall  attaf  i  ofyn  bynn  a  bynn,  betb  bynna  fo'n  angen  ar 
hwn  neu  arall,  ni  cbant  eitbr  am  y  parod  ar  law,  a  He  delo  attaf 
ar  oddeu  cyfymrin  a  mi  mi  ymwnâf  ag  wynt.  a  na  bach  na  mawr 


182  DAMMEGION. 

na  char  nag  estron,  ni  wnaf  na  chyd  na  chyfnn  aV  goreu  o  henynt. 
eithr  gwedaf  wrthjnt  ffwrdd  a  chwi  daiogion,  a  lie  nad  elont  ar  y 
gair  cyntaf  bwriaf  fal  hynn  fy  ffonn  amynt;  a  chyda  hynny  bwrw 
ei  fifonn  a  holl  nerth  braich,  ag  ynghyd  a'r  grenn  ydd  aeth  ai 
thorri  yn  chwilfriw  man,  y  grenn  yn  glechdyr,  ar  Uaeth  ar  hyd  y 
Ilawr  ar  goll.  a  chyda  hynny  yr  holl  dai  a^r  Tir  ar  da  Byd,  yn 
olud  a  chyfoeth,  ar  öbnn  hefyd  0*^1  law  fal  nas  gallasai  ymmod  oV 
mann  UeV  oedd,  na  myned  ar  daith  i  faun  o'r  byd  i  ofyn  yn 
dlawd  anghenns  a  fai  ai  cadwai  yn  fyw.  heb  y  ffonn  heb  y  cwbL 
ac  am  hynny  y  dywedir  am  a  wneler  yn  rhyfyg.  Mai  dall  yn 
bwrw  ei  ffonn  ac  o  fodd  arall,  na  fydd  ry  barod  i  f¥nrw  dy  ffonn 
oHh  law  fal  y  gwr  dall  gynt.  ao  arall  gnawd  i  falchder  fwrw  ei  ffonn 
o'i  law  yn  ei  ddallineb,  ac  a  honno  bwrw  i  lawr  yn  glechdyr  ei  holl 
fawredd.  ai  holl  olud  fal  y  gwr  dall  ai  rennafd  laeth. — [O  bapuraa 
cymmysg  Edward  Llwyd  yn  yr  Ashmolean  Maseum  yn  Hhyd- 
ychen,  medd  /ofo  Marganwg.l 


XI.  DAMMEG  Y  GWR  A'R  EBOL. 

OwB  gynt  yn  berchen  Ebol  a  elai  dano  ag  ai  cwnnai  yn  fis 
oed  ar  ei  ysgwyddau.  gwneuthnr  bob  dydd.  Yr  Ebol  yn  tyfn^n 
geffyl  ar  dyn  o  ymarfer  beunydd  a  Nerth  ei  gorph  yn  ymfwyhaa 
mown  grym  fal  ag  oedd  yr  Ebol  yn  mwyhau  mown  maint.  ag  yn 
cwnnuV  Ceffyl  ar  ei  ysgwyddau.  AV  Ceffyl  yn  dioddef  hynny  yn 
esmwyth.  Felly  Aifer  a  fwy  nag  a  feddylir  droa  ddyn.  fid  y 
dywed  y  ddiarheb  Arfer  a  wna  feistrolaeth ;  ac,  Arfer  a  wna'*n 
hawdd  y  peth  mwyaf  Anhawdd ;  ac  arall,  Arfer  a  drech  «r  bob 
trechaf :  arall  etto,  Arfer  a  ddwg  pob  peth  dan  ei  Wedd.  ac  un 
arall,  Arfer  a  ddaw  banner  y  ffordd  i  gyfarfod  a  phob  ymgais,  fú 
y  Ceffyl  yn  dyfod  at  y  Gwr  ag  yn  goddef  yn  esmwyth  ei  gwnnu : 
arall  hefyd,  Arfer  yn  banner  y  Gwaith.  Diarhebion  eraill,  nid 
nerth  ond  Arfer,  nid  nerth  ond  Celfyddyd,  nid  Gelfyddyd  oiid 
Arfer,  fal  y  dywed  y  Bardd, 

Arfer  ag  ymgais  a  drech  ar  bob  trais. 

ag  o  hynn  y  maeV  Ddiarheb,  Cwnnu>  Ebol  heddyw,  GwnnuV 
Ebol  y  fory,  cwnnu'r  Ebol  bob  dydd  onid  elo'^n  Uawn  fiunt  OefiyI, 

Arfer  ag  ymgais  a  drech  ar  bob  trais. 


DAMMEQION.  183 

Xn.  DAMMEG  MERED YDD  AP  RHOSER  O  LANBEDR  A'R  FRO. 
AM  GASTELL  TREWARIN  (SEF  WRINSTWN.) 

GAflTELL  Ffwg  ap  Gwarin,  a  elwir  Ffwg  Morganwg  a  Ffwg  Ve- 
gwnt  Caer  Dyf  Un  Twr  mawr  ag  uchel  ydoedd  ;  ag  uwch  o  lawer 
nag  un  Twr  arall  yn  Ynys  Prydain :  Syr  Ffwg  yn  son  ar  uchaf 
amser  Gwyl  y  Sol  Gwyn  am  y  caledi  a  ddioddefws  ef  yn  ymladd 
a  gelynion  a  Sarsyniaid  ar  modd  y  dychymygodd  ef  gael  y  goreu 
emynt  A  Marchogion  Urddasol  a  Bonheddigion  gwaeduchel,  yn 
gwrando ;  ^'  Mi  a  allaswn  wneuthur  felly  hefyd  yn  hawdd  ebe  un 
Marchog,  minnau  hefyd  ebe  un  arall,  a  mynnai  hefyd  ebeV  tryd- 
ydd,  ac  felly  o  fynnau  i  fynnau  onid  chlywid  pob  Mynnau  yn 
haern  ei  hunan  gystal  a'r  goreu,  a  chystal  a  Syr  Ffwg  ei  hunan ; 
Un  peth  arall  ebe  Syr  Ffwg  a  wnaethum  ond  llai  rhyfedd  rhaid 
cjbÁàet  na  dim  ar^  ag  a  wnae  :  beth  oedd  hynny  ebe  un,  ebeV 
ail  ebeV  trydydd,  ebe  pob  un  yn  y  man,  ar  He :  Ebe  Syr  Ffwg,  mi 
Deidiais  i  ben  fy  Nghastell  fy  hun,  yr  hwn  ywV  uchaf  gan  gyfaddef 
pob  un  o  honoch  yn  y  Deymas,  gwir  yw  hynny  parth  yr  uwch- 
der,  ebe  un,  ebe  arall,  ebe  pob  un  yno ;  ond  am  y  neidio  iddei  ben 
nid  ond  gweled  y  cyfryw  orchest  a'm  Uygaid  ym  hunan  a  wna  i 
mi  gredu  hynny  ;  Da  iawn  yn  Wir  ebe  Syr  Ffwg,  Ag  os  oaf  yr 
Anrhyddedd  o'ch  cyfeillach  rhy w  ddydd  ar  fyr  o  amser  i  gynniawa 
gjda  mi  yn  fy  Nghastell,  chwi  a  gewch  fy  ngweled  yn  neidio  iddei 
ben  ef.  addaw  dyfod,  pob  un  o  henynt,  ac  enwi'r  diwamod,  dyfod 
yno  bawb  o  henynt.  ciniawa,  bwytta  ag  yfed  yn  dda ;  y  bwydydd 
goreu  y  diodydd  goreu,  Ynawr  ebe  Syr  Ffwg  am  neidio  i  ben  y 
Gastell  dwr,  dewch  gyda  mi  dilynwch,  a  gwelwch  bob  un  ai  lygaid 
ei  hunan ;  Myned  at  droed  yr  Esgynfa,  yna  neidiodd  Syr  Ffwg 
i'^r  llettring  cyntaf,  ag  oddiar  hwnnw  iV  ail,  ar  un  modd  i'r  Tryd- 
ydd, ag  bl  hynny  neidio  o  un  llettring  i  arall,  hyd  yn  ys  neidwys 
ef  i  ben  y  Castell :  och  fynnau  ebe  un,  ac  ar  ei  ol  bob  un  arall, 
myfi  a  allaswn  neidio  yn  y  rhywfodd  a  hynny  yn  hawdd  iawn  i 
ben  y  Gastell ;  Gallasech,  ebe  Syr  Ffwg,  mi  a  wn  y  gallasech,  ac 
y  gellwch  yn  hawdd  bob  un  o  honoch,  ynawr  wedi  fy  ngweled  i 
yn  gwneuthur  felly,  aV  modd  a'i  gwnaethum,  a  diffyg  ddeall  yn 
iinig  oedd  yr  achos  nas  gwnaethoch  felly,  neu  oleiaf  nas  daeth 
erioed  ar  ddeall  i  chwiV  modd  y  gellid  ei  wneuthur.  nid  mawr  y 
gorchest  ar  ddim  i  ddeall  gallu. 

Perchen  deall  gwrandawed  ag  ystyried  y  ddammeg — a  chym- 
mered,  addysg  o  Lettring  i  Lettring  y  mae  cyrhaedd  pen  Castell 


184  DAMMEGION. 

Owybodaeth  ag  ucheldwr  Chelfyddyd,  ag  nid  ofer  ar  bob  ofer, 
ond  amcanu  hynny  mewn  un  Naid. 

Meredydd  ap  Bhoeer  o  Lanbedr  ar  Fro.  ai  djwaid  yn  yr  Ei»- 
teddfod  Llandaf,  a  fu  jno  yn  yr  Eglwys  gan  Williams  Ifiuu 
Trysorwr  Llandaf  er  dysgu^r  modd  y  mae  cyrhaedd,  Giivybodfta 
Lien  a  Chelfyddyd. 

Ag  yn  y  Maes  Teg  lie  ydd  ymnenaddau  Beird  Tir  Defodwyd 
gan  Fam  Tri  Chadeirfardd  ar  ddeg  ei  datgan  gan  Ddatgeiniai 
Dosparthus  herwydd  prif  ddefod,  neu  ynteu  ei  darllain  ar  Osieg 
gan  Fardd  Cadair  yn  Mraint  Ofydd  can  nas  dylai  na  Phrif 
Fardd  na  Derwydd  amgen  naM  datgan  ar  osteg  gan  Lafitf 
Qorsedd. 


CHWEDLAU. 


LLYMA  GYFARWYDDYD 

AM  GABADAWC  AP  BBAN  AP  LLTB,  AC  AM  FANAWYDAN  AP  LLYR 
EI  EWYTHB,  AC  AM  OABCHAB  OETH  AC  ANNOETH* 


Pan  oedd  Caradawc  ap  Bran  ap  Llyr  Llediaith  jn  rhyfelu  a 
Gwyr  Bhnfain  ag  yn  eu  lladd  yn  aruthr,  rhai  o**!  Gwyr  hynny  yn 
ddianghedion  a  ddywedasant  wrth  eu  Hymerawdr  nas  gellid  na 
gobwyll  na  gobaith  y  gellid  llaw  uch'af  a  gorfod  ar  Garadawc  ap 
Bran  gyhyd  ag  y  safaint  y  Goedydd  ar  llwyni  caeadbell  yng 
Nghyfoetheu  Garadawc  ai  Oymry  nid  amgen  na  Phendefigaeth 
Essyllwg,  sef  ebynt  yn  y  coedydd  ar  gelltydd  caeadlwyn  yn  ym- 
gudd  ydynt  ym  mraint  ag  ansawdd  Gwylltfilod,  ag  nis  gellir  na 
golwg  na  chraff  amynt  mal  au  lladder  yny  bwynt  rif  gwenyn  o 
gwch  yn  hirddydd  haf  tesog  ag  yn  ddiarwybod  am  ein  pennau  ni 
y  Gaisanaid  gan  ein  lladd  yn  Ueibiau ;  sef  ydd  attebwys  yr  ym- 
herawdr  myn  fy  Enw  mawr  am  Tynghedfen,  ni  hir  safant  y  coed- 
ydd ynghyfoethau  Garadawc  ai  Gymry.  mi  a  ddanfonaf  Vr  wlad 
faonno  Gbnlleng  om  goreugwyr  Gad  a  Rhyfel  a  gosgymmon  Tan 
Owyllt  yn  lie  arfau  minogion,  ag  a  ddodaf  ar  dan  hoU  Goedydd 
Gyfoetheu  Garadawc  ai  Genedl  o  Gymry  au  Giwdodau.  ar  geiriau 
hynny  a  ddaethant  i  Glyw  Garadawc  ap  Bran  ai  wyr,  sef  y  dy- 
wedasant  gymmain  an  a  Uais  a  Uef  mal  o  un  genau,  Bach  yw 
^nnym  gadw  ein  gwlad  ag  amgen  na  chademyd  corph  a  chalon, 
gan  hynny  Uosgwn  ein  coedydd  gyhyd  a  chyifled  y  gwelir  dalen 
on  twf,  hyd  nas  galler  brigyn  i  grogi  chwannen  o  geulan  Hafren 
hyd  yn  kîo^  Tywy  hyd  a  lied  y  Gerddynt  Gyfoetheu  Essyllwg, 
Cyrch  a  dardan  yr  holl  diroedd  ar  ein  helw  an  henw.  yna  gwa- 
hoddwn  y  Gaisariaid  in  gwlad  ag  awn  gad  am  gad  ag  wynt  ar  y 
tîr  dof  ar  maesdir  Oeth  yn  gystal  ag  a  wnaethom  ar  lawr  Anoeth 
▼  Tir  Gwyllt.  Yna  UosgiV  holl  Goedydd  o  galon  Hafren  hyd  yn 
eithafodd  Ystrad  Tywi  ffordd  y  cerddai  Gyfoetheu  Garadawc  ai 

•  O'r  Ynialcs,  medd  lolo  Morganwg. 


18G 


CHWEDLAU. 


Gymry,  hel)  adael  brigyn  Ue  y  disgyTmaiV  Gwybedyu  ll*iaf  i 
orpbwya  yng  Tio:ratto3  hirddydrl  haf,  yna  daufon  Cenhadon  an- 
rhydedduB  at  Ymherawdr  Rhufuin,  a  plian  ddaothnat  iiyd  yn 
Llys  yr  ymherawdr  cyfarcli  iddaw  yn  fonhedigaidd  nid  amgeû 
nag  ym  nial  hynn.  Gwyr  Caradawc  ap  Bran  ap  Llyr  LWiaitb 
ydym  nu  gwell  y  cjTümeraeaint  ein  Brfìniu  an  Cenedl  aì  lonydd 
yn  heddwch  na  Rhyftl,  Bûdlonacli  y  porthasaiut  eu  gwartheg 
blithion  au  Defaid  gwlanog  nsCn  Meirch  Cad  a  Bh^i'elj  iscrcliotv 
each  y  gwaitli  Cyfnawdd  Ceraint  na  lladd  gormes  Estrou»  Bid  bai 
beiawr  nid  ar  genedl  y  Cymry  na'u  BrenUinoedd  y  saif  y  Bai. 
chwilia'n  amgen  ani  danaw  gan  iWw  golwg  craff  ar  a  drother  dMXi 
ay  law  aHh  lygad*  buom  Gad  am  Gad  a  tlii  ar  y  Tir  gwyUt^  s 
gwyddoat  modd  y  bu.  mwy  nid  gwyllt  wyneb  ein  Tiroedd  nid 
edewîs  y  Uosg  na  pliren  na  brigyn  yn  fyw  ar  glaviT  ein  gwlad  Tir 
otìth  bellach  tioll  Gyfoetlieu  Caradawc  ap  Bran,  cadw  jiigbartref 
dy  dan  gwyllt  nid  oes  niig  acho^  na  gwaith  iddaw  ar  Isvwr  Oymry 
dawed  dy  ivyr  gad  am  gad  a  ni  ar  y  Tir  Dof,  dau  Eistron  am  un 
Cymro  ar  y  Tir  Oeth  ag  yrabrawf  ynnill  yn  ol  anrbydedd  a  gt»ll- 
aist  ap  y  Tir  anoeth,  nn  maea  mawr  v'xn  gwlad  heb  fan  y  g«llir 
nag  ymgudd  nag  ymgil  ynddi,  mal  hynn  a'th  annf^rcdkwn,  gyrra 
gly waiat  yn  graö"  ar  dy  gof  a  bydd  wr.  Caradawc  ap  Bran  ef  a'th 
gyfarch,  ef  ei  biin,  ag  nid  amgen,  rhyfedd  a  synn  fu  gan  yr 
amherawdr  y  Cyfarch  a  blin  ar  ei  feddwl  y  nawdd  a  gawsant  y 
Oymry  ganthaw  yni  niraint  Cenhadau  gorwlad  pan  wybu  mai 
Caradawc  ei  hun  ag  nid  aiiigen  ai  cyfarcbai.  Daothant  y  Ouliadon 
yn  ol  iddeu  gwlad,  yna  galw  cyhydreg  ag  yniladd.  a  gwyr  Bhufaia 
a  ddodaseint  Gadau  ar  Faes  ffordd  y  treiglai'r  Gwynt  am  bíHÌrj' 
fannoedd  Byd<  a  Cbaradawc  ai  Gymry  yn  eu  herlmi  yn  galonog 
gan  ei  Uadd  yn  Ikibiau  celanedd  ffordd  y  tKJid  wynebau  attyut,  & 
chystal  y  eaed  Caradawc  ai  Gymry  ar  y  Tir  Dof  ag  ai  <raid  cym ' 
no  hynny  ar  y  TÌr  Gwyllt»  Cystal  ar  oeth  ag  ar  annocth,  ag  ym 
dodwyd  y  Cof  ar  ddiarliebion  gv^-lad^  He  dywodir.  Cystal  ar  y  Tir 
Gwyllt  ag  ar  y  Tir  dof*  ag^  ni  waeth  oeth  nag  anoeth  iddaw.  «^ 
cyetal  ar  oeth  ag  ar  anoeth* 

Gwedi  lloegiV  c<iedydd  mal  y  dywespwyd,  yng  n^dydd  0»r* 
adawc  ap  Bran  ai  Gymry^  ba  gymmaint  prindcr  y  coed  defiij 
fal  nafl  gcUid  modd  Tai,  ag  o  hynny  y  dywedir  ar  ddiarvb  Hai 
caŵl  Saer  na  Deinydd,  ac  anaml  saer,  anamlath  defnydd,  a<chA¥ 
hynny  gorfu  ar  y  Oymry  adeiladu  Tai  a  cherrig,  a>  Tai  hynnj  \ 
wnaed  ar  ddull  Das  yd  neu  wair,  neu  ynteu  dyfaler  y  Tai  hjTiiiy 
ar  eiluo  Cwch  g\^enyn,  sef  crynion  oeddynt  yn  ymgynnuU  ynghyd 


CHWEDLAU.  187 

yn  y  pen  yn  lie  cronglwyd  goed,  a  thwll  mwg  uwch  ben  y  canol 
mal  y  gwelir  wrth  ddihenyddion  y  Tai  liynny  a  geffir  ar  fynyddau 
ar  y  Ueoedd  ynial  hyd  yr  awr  honn;  yna  dodwyd  ar  ymgais 
gwnenthur  calch  mal  y  gellid  Gademyd  ar  dai  cerrig.  a^r  amser- 
oedd  hynny  y  dechreuwyd  adeiliad  Tai  a  chalch  yng  Nghymru,  a 
threfnu  Tai'n  Bentrefydd  mal  y  bai  haws  cydymgadw  rhag  gelyn  ag 
estron  a  chydymgymmwynasu,  a  Ghydfugeila  Defaid  a  Gwar- 
iheg  blithion  a  gwarchadw  Tir  ar  a  gwyrlawd. 

GwediV  ymladdau  hynny  lie  y  Has  gymmaint  oV  Gaisariaid  yn 
ydoedd  eu  hesgyrn  yngweddill  Bleiddiaid  a  Ghwn  a  Ghigfrain  mal 
eiia  gwynn  yn  gaenen  mewn  llawer  iawn  o  fannau  yn  cloriaw 
gwyneb  daear,ag  yn  y  Maes  Mawr  yngNhymry  sef  y  wlad  ambarth 
y  mui  y  mae  Monachlog  Margam  y  caed  mwyaf  o'r  Esgym 
achaws  y  Cktd  fawr  ar  Dir  oeth  a  ddoded  yno  gan  wyr  Bhufain  lie 
aa  ihuldwyd.  A  Manawydan  fab  Llyr  yn  gweled  hynny  a  beris 
gynnuU  yr  Esgym  ynghyd  yn  un  gludair  a  dwyn  attynt  a  gaid 
ymhob  man  arall  oV  cyfoeth  or  rhy w  esgym  yn  ydoedd  y  Gludair 
honno  yn  dra  rhyfedd  ei  maint.  yna  bwrw  yn  gyrch  yn  ei  amcan 
gwneuthur  calch,  ag  adeilad  Garchar  ar  esgym  hynn  er  carcharu 
gelyn  ag  estron  a  ddelid  yn  rhyfel,  ag  ynghylch  y  Gwaith  a  gwneu- 
thur adeilad  crwn  helaeth  a  thra  chadam  eu  furiau  aV  esgym 
hynny  ynghyd  ar  Galch,  sef  ydoedd  ar  dduU  Grwnn  rhyfedd  ei 
faint,  ar  esgym  mwyaf  yn  y  Grwnn  tu  faes  a  thu  fawn  iV  crwnn 
hwnnw  amrafaelion  dai  Garchar  oV  esgym  ag  oeddynt  lai,  a 
charcharau  eraill  dan  y  ddaear  yn  leoedd  Bradwyr  Gwlad.  a 
Charchar  oeth  ag  Anoeth  y  gelwid  hynnw  er  Gof  am  a  wnaethant 
y  Gymry  a  Gharadawc  eu  Brenin  er  eu  g>vlad  au  Genedl  ar  yn 
gystal  y  Tir  oeth  ar  Tir  anoeth.  ag  yn  y  Garchar  hynny  y 
dodid  a  ddelid  yn  rhyfel  yn  erbyn  Genedl  y  Gymry  hyd  yn  ys 
gellid  Bam  Llys  g\^lad  arnynt,  ag  os  ynghynllwyn  y  ceffid  dai  un 
nea  arall  o''|^  estroniaid  ei  losgi,  os  ynghad  ddosparthus  ai  delid  a 
gwelid  gwif  ar  hynny  gan  farn  Llys  ei  ddadferth  yn  ol  iddeu 
genedl  am  gymro  cymmraint  a  gaid  ar  ddadfertli  am  danaw.  a 
cfawedi  hynny  carcherid  yno  bob  un  a  geffid  yn  fradwr  gwlaà^  a 
Ue  nas  Uosgid  gan  farn  Llys,  eu  cadw  yno  hyd  yn  oed  bywyd.  a> 
Carchar  hynny  a  dorrwyd  lawer  gwaith  gan  y  Gaisariaid  ar  Gym- 
ry a  gwnaint  ar  ol  hynny  yn  gadamach  nag  or  blaen.  ag  ymhen 
hir  amser  daeth  mall  ar  yr  Esgym  mal  nas  gellid  cadernyd  arnynt 
cany 8  maluriaw  a  wnaethant  yn  Ulyf.  yna  dwyn  y  dihenydd  yn 
weryd  Tir  ar  ag  o  hynny  caid  rhyfedd  ar  gnydau  gwenith  a  haidd  a 
phob  yd  arall  dros  hir  o  flynyddoedd.  ag  felly  terfyna. 

2  B 


188  CHWEDLAÜ. 


HANES  Y  TRI  ADERYN  LLWCH  GWIN. 

Drutwas  ap  Trephin  a  gafas  gan  ei  wraig  dri  aderyn  Llwdi 
Gwin  a  hwjnt  a  wnaent  beth  bynnag  a  archai  ei  meistr  iddynt ; 
ac  fe  osodwyd  maes  rhwng  Arthur  a  Drutwas,  ac  ni  chai  neb 
ddyfod  i'r  maes  ond  hwy  eill  dau,  a  gyrru  ei  adar  a  wnaeth  Drui- 
was,  a  dy wedjd  lleddwch  y  Gyntaf  a  ddel  Tr  Maes,  ac  f el  yr  ai 
Arthur  i'r  maes  e  ddaeth  chwaer  Drutwas  oedd  ordderch  i  Artbar 
ac  a  lesteiríodd  Arthur  Vr  maes,  er  cariad  i  bob  un  o  honynt.  ac  o> 
diwedd  fe  ddaeth  Drutwas  Tr  Maes,  gan  dybio  Uadd  oV^adar  Aiv- 
thur.  ac  ai  cippiodd  yr  adar  ef,  ac  ai  Uaddasant.  yu  entyrch  awyp* 
ei  adnabod  ef  a  wnaethant,  a  disgyn  Tr  Uawr  drwy  oemad  dostar- 
ia^n  y  byd.  am  kdd  Drutwas  eu  Meistr.  ac  y  mae  Ganiad' Adar 
Llwch  Gwin  ar  dannau  a  wnaed  yr  amser  hwnnw  i  goffau  hynny 
ac  o  hynny  y  cafodd  Llywarch  Hen  y  testun  i  ganuV  Englyn 
canlynol. 

Drutwas  ap  Trephin  trin  diwamawd 
Gan  drallawd  ag  orddin 
Adwy  a  wnaeth  gyssefin 
Adar  ai  Uaddodd  llwch  gwin. 

Llywarch  Hen. 


HENAIFION  BYD* 

Ertb  gynt  oedd  yn  byw  ynghoedydd  Gwemabwy  yn  yr  AHmul, 
a  chyntaf  erioed  oi  rywiogaeth  ai  enw  a  gaed  yno,  a  gwedi  iddaw 
ef  ai  Eryres  Epiliaw  hyd  ymhen  y  nawfed  âch  a  thros  hynny  ym 
mhell  a  gweled  ei  Iwyth  ai  Eppil  yn  aneirif  eu  nifer,  ag  yn  gwled- 
ych  hoU  goedydd  a  Chreigydd  Ynys  Prydain,  bu  farw  yr  hen 
eryres  fammog.  gan  adael  yr  hen  Eryr  Uwyd  yn  weddw  adwerydd, 
ag  ymddifad  o  gyfallai,  heb  neb  ai  cysurai  nag  ai  cynhesai  yn  ei 
henaint.  yna  gan  drymder  bryd  a  meddwl  a  thristwch  calon 
meddwl  a  orug  mai  goreu  fyddai  iddaw  briodas  a  hen  weddwes 
adwerydd  gyfoed  ai  hunan.  a  chwedi  clywed  son  am  hen  ddylliuui 
Cwmcawlwyd  ym  MhrydjTi  efe  a  gymmerth  ar  dyb  y  gallai  honno 
ymgyfaddef  ag  ef  a  bod  yn  ail  briawd  iddaw,  ond  efe  ni  fynnai 

♦  O  Lyfr  Mr.  Cobb,  medd  lolo  Morganwg. 


CHWEDLAÜ.  189 

ddadryw  a  Uwgr  ar  ei  waed  a  difwynaw  ei  eppil  o  gael  plant  o 
heni,  a  dodi  lledryw  a  Uedach  ar  ei  genedl.  Ooreu  gan  hjnny 
meddai  ef  wrtho  ei  hunan  imi  ymholi  ac  ymofyn  gan  y  rhai  ydynt 
hŷn  na  mi,  am  oedran  j  ddjUuan.  er  gwybod  pa  on  ai  amgen  ei 
bod  dros  ben  oedran  planta;  a  hen  gyfaiU  oedd  iddaw  hŷn  nag  ef 
ei  hunan  a  hwnnw  Hydd  Rhedynfre  yng  Ngwent,  myned  attaw  a 
onig,  a  gofyn  oedran  yr  hen  ddyllaan  ar  hydd  ai  attebai  fal  hyun 
dywel  fy  nghar  am  cyfaiU  y  dderwen  honn  a  orweddaf  wrthi  nid 
yw  amgen  yr  awr  honn  na  hen  Gelffeinyn  marw  heb  ddail  heb  fríg 
ami.  eîthr  cof  gennyf  eî  gweled  yn  fesen  ar  frîg  Brenhinbren  y 
gelliwig  honn.  a  thyfu  yn  dderwen  a  wnaeth  a  thrichanmlynedd  y 
bydd  derwen  ar  ei  thyfiant,  a  chwedi  hynny  trichanmlynedd  yn  ei 
giym  ac  ar  ei  goreu.  a  gwedi  hynny  trichanmlynedd  ar  ei  meth- 
iant  cyn  marw.  ac  ar  ôl  marw  trichanmlynedd  yn  darfod  ir  ddaeai*. 
ae  y  mae  dros  drigain  or  cant  diweddaf  wedi  cerdded  ar  y  dderwen 
honn.  a  hen  y  gwelais  Tr  ddylluan  er  y  cof  cyntaf  gennyf.  heb  ar- 
wybod  immi  a  wyddai  am  ei  hoedran  o^m  cenedl  fy  hunan  na  golwg 
o  iaa  ami  nag  y  sydd  yr  awrhon.  Ond  y  mae  hen  gyfaill  ymy 
aydd  hyn  o  lawer  na  myfi.  Gleisiad  Llynn  Llifon  yw  hwnnw,  dos 
atto,  odid  nas  gwyr  ef  ryw  gyfarwyddyd  am  oedran  a  helynt  yr 
hen  ddyllaan.  Myned  hyd  attaw  a  wnelai  yr  Eryr,  a  gofyn  iddaw 
gyfarwyddyd  am  y  ddylluan.  ar  Gleisiad  ai  attebai  fal  hynn,  rhif 
y  cennynau  ar  gemmau  sydd  amaf,  ac  at  hynny  rhif  y  gronynnau 
sydd  yn  fy  mola  y  sydd  arnaf  o  flwyddi'm  oedran.  ac  er  eitha  cof 
imi  hen  gyheurath  oedd  y  ddylluan,  ac  nid  i  neb  om  cyfeillion  ag 
oedd  yn  ei  llawn  oedran  pan  oeddwn  i  yn  ieuangc  na  chof  na  chlyw 
am  ieuenctid  y  ddylluan  nag  ychwaith  am  ei  phlanta  hi.  ond  y 
cydymaith  immi  y  sydd  hyn  o  lawer  na  mi,  hwnnw  yw  mwy- 
idch  Cilgwri.  dos  attaw,  odid  nas  gwyr  am  y  ddylluan  du  hwnt  i'r 
oof  a>  gwybod  sydd  gennyf  fi  dos  atto  a  gofyn  iddaw.  myned  a 
wnai'^r  Eryr,  ac  a  gafodd  y  fwyalch  yn  eistedd  ar  garregyn  bychan 
o  gallestryn  caled  iawn  ac  a  ofynnes  oedran  a  helynt  y  ddylluan, 
B>  fwyalch  a'*i  attebai  fal  hynn.  gwel  yma  bychaned  y  garreg 
fechan  y  tanof,  nid  mwy  hi  yr  awr  honn  nag  a  gymmer  bachgenyn 
saithmlwydd  yn  ei  law,  ag  mi  ai  gwelais  yn  Iwyth  trychant  gwedd 
oV  ychain  mwyaf.  a  thraul  ni  bu  ami  erioed  ond  o'm  gwaith  i  yn 
sychu  fy  mhig  ami  unwaith  bob  nos  cyn  myned  i  gysgu.  ac  yn 
tare  blaen  fy  adain  ami  bob  bore  gwedi  y  desgynnwn  ami  o  ber- 
fedd  draenfrig,  a  thros  bob  cof  gennyf  rifedi  blynyddau'm  hoedran, 
er  hynny  nid  adnabum  i  y  ddylluan  yn  iau  im  barn  am  golwg  i 
parth  a  welid  ami  nag  yw  hi  y  dydd  heddyw,  ac  ni  chlywais 


190  CHWEDLAU. 

erioedgan  un  om  ceraint  y  son  Ueiaf  am  gôf  oi  plilanta  hi.  Ond  j 
mae  un  sydd  hỳn  o  lawer  na  myfi  a  hỳn  na^m  tad  herwydd  a 
glywais,  a  hwnnw  y  UyflFan  Oors  Fochno  yngheredigion,  doB  a 
gofyn  iddaw  ag  onis  gwyr  ef,  ni  wn  i  am  neb  a  ŵyr.  Myned  a 
wnai'r  Eryr  hyd  yng  Nghors  Fochno  a  chyflFwrdd  aV  llySant  yno. 
a  gofyn  iddaw  oedran  y  dylluan.  aV  Uyffan  ai  attebai.  ni  fwytiaif 
i  erioed  amgen  o  fwyd  na  phndd  y  ddaear,  ac  ni  fwyttiais  i  erioed 
hanner  fy  nigon.  a  gwel  di'r  bryniau  mawnon  y  sy'^n  am^leh  y 
y  gors  honn.  y  maent  yn  sefyll  ar  a  welais  yn  dir  gwasiad,  ag  nid 
oes  y  gronyn  Ueiaf  ynddynt  ond  a  ddaeth  yn  dom  o''nghorph  i,  a 
bwytta  cyn  Ueied  rhag  ofn  darfod  ar  bridd  y  ddaear  cyn  fy  marw.  tn 
hwnt  i  bob  cof  i  mi  fy  mhynyddau  er  yr  awr  am  ganed,  nag  ych- 
waith  er  y  cyntaf  o  beth  ar  gof  a  gwybod  immi.  er  hynny  hyn  o 
lawer  na  mi  ywV  ddylluan  heb  olwg  yn  y  dim  Ueiaf  o  wedd  ien- 
enctid  ami.  eithr  yn  hen  wrach  Iwyd,  yn  gweiddi  Ty  hwt  ty  hw  y 
coedydd  yn  himos  gauaf.  yn  dychrynu  plant  bychain  ac  yn  toni 
ar  hynn  pob  un.  ac  nid  oes  immi  gof  ag  ni  chefais  i  glyw  er  iced 
am  ei  phlanta  eithr  am  a  welais  i  hen  wrachiod  ymheU  droa  ben  oed- 
ran pob  planta  oedd  yr  ieuangaf  o'i  merched  a  hefyd  o*'i  hwyron  li 
gorwyron.  yna  r  Eryr  a  weles  y  galla  ef  ei  phriodi  ai  chymmeryd 
attaw  yn  gywely  heb  ddwyn  ar  ei  genedl  na  Uwgr  na  Uedryw.  ba 
Uedach  na  Uediaith.  ag  feUy  y  bu.  ag  o  garwriaeth  yr  hen  Eryr  y 
cafwyd  gwybod  pwyr  hynaf  o  greaduriaid  yn  y  byd,  aef  ydyni 
Eryr  Gwemabwy.  a  Hydd  Rhedynfre  a  Gleisiad  Llynn  Llifoiu 
a  mwyalch  Cilgwri.  a  Llyffan  Cors  Fochno,  a  DyUoan  Gwm  Caw- 
Iwyd,  ag  nid  oes  namyn  y  Grwn  Tir  yn  hyn  nag  wynt  o  bethaa 
a  gawsant  ddechreuad  yn  oes  y  byd  hwnn. 
ag  feUy  y  terfyna. 


BREUDDWYD  PAUL  ABOSTOL. 

MraANGEL  wrth  orchymmyn  Duw  a  ddangoses  i  Bawl  Abostol 
boenau  Uffem  mewn  gweledigaeth.  Yn  gyntaf  fo  welai  Bawl 
brennau  tanllyd  o  faes  Perth  U£fem,  a  Uawer  o  bechadnriaid  yn 
poeni  yn  crogi  wrth  y  prennau  hynny ;  rhai  wrth  en  dwylaw, 
rhai  wrth  waUt  eu  pennau,  rhai  wrth  eu  traed,  rhai  wrth  ea  ta- 
fodau,  rhai  wrth  eu  breichiau.  Ac  eilwaith  ef  a  welai  fifwm  danUyd, 
a  saith  ddialedd  yn  dwyn  saith  Uw  ynddi,  a  phechaduriaid  yn 
poeni  ynddynt,  a  saith  ddialedd  o  bob  ty  iddo  :  cyuta  oedd  Mrm, 
yn  ail  oedd  /a,   y  trydydd  oedd  Tan,  y  pedwerydd  Gwoêi,  j 


CHWEDLAU.  191 

pammed  Nadroedd^  y  chweched  Cegsair,  y  seithfed  Sawyr  brtent 
Ac  yn  fiwm  danllyd  honno  ydd  oeddyd  yn  taflu  eneidiau  pechad- 
nriaid  ni  wnaethant  eu  penyd  yn  y  Byd  yma  dros  eu  camweddau 
a'u  camweithredoedd,  sef  y  rhai  nid  edifarhasant ;  yno  yr  oeddyd 
yn  dodi  pechaduriaid  mewn  poenau  yn  ol  eu  gweithredoedd,  ac  yn 
ol  y  modd  yr  haeddasant  yn  y  Byd  hwn ;  ac  yno  rhai  oedd  yn 
wylo,  rhai  yn  udo,  rhai  yn  ochain,  rhai  yn  llosgi,  rhai  yn  deisyf 
angsa  ao  heb  ei  gael,  canys  ni  bydd  marw  Enaid  Dyn  byth  mewn 
Ue  pryderus ;  prydems  yw  Uffem  lie  mae  tristwch  Uawenydd,  Ue 
mae  blinder  tragywydd,  Ue  mae  tristwch  calon,  lie  mae  amlder  o 
ddrygioni,  lie  mae  blinder  ar  Eneidiau,  He  mae  rhod  danllyd  a  mil 
o  sideUi  ynddi,  a  gormes  uffernol  yn  ei  throi  fil  o  weithiau  yn  y 
dydd  aV  nos,  ac  ar  bob  tro  y  mae  hi  yn  llosgi  mil  o  eneidiau.  wedi 
hynny  fo  a  weles  Pawl  afon  fawr  greulon,  a  llawer  o  gythreuliaid 
ynddi  fal  pysgod  yn  y  mor  yn  Uyngcu  Eneidiau  heb  fesur,  a 
hynny  yn  ddidnigaredd,  fal  Bleiddiau  yn  lladd  defaid ;  ac  ar  yr 
afon  honno  y  mae  pont,  ac  ar  hyd  y  bont  honno  yr  â  eneidiau  y 
bobl  dda  gywiriaid,  a  hynny  yn  ddibryder,  a  thros  y  bont  y 
ewympa  y  rhai  drwg  ffeilsion  ynghanol  y  llif,  a  phawb  yn  boddi 
yn  y  llif  hMrnnw,  yn  ol  eu  gweithredoedd ;  ac  y  mae  llawer  He 
drwg  i  aros  fel  y  mae  Duw  yn  dywedyd  yn  yr  Efengyl.  "Rhwym- 
wch  hwy  yn  Sabymiaid^'*  a^u  poeni,  nid  amgen  na  phawb  at  ei 
gyffelyb ;  y  Gwyr  a  dorres  eu  priodasau,  ar  Gwragedd  a  wnaeth- 
ant y  cyffelyb ;  y  treiswyr  at  y  treiswyr  eraill.  y  rhai  drwg  at  y 
rhai  drwg  eraill,  yr  occrwyr  at  yr  occrwyr  eraill,  y  putteinwyr  at 
y  putteinwyr  eraill ;  yno  y  gweles  Pawl  lawer  o  eneidiau  yn  y 
llif  hwnnw.  rhai  hyd  yrahen  eu  gliniau,  rhai  hyd  eu  gwregysau, 
rhai  hyd  ymhen  eu  hysgwyddau,  rhai  dros  eu  pennau,  pawb  fel  yr 
haeddodd,  ac  yno  wylo  ac  udo,  a  chan  mil  o  gythreuliaid  yn  eu 
gwatwor  a  chroch  chwerthlef  ysgyrnyglyd,  a  chan  yr  adlef  yr  hoU 
uffemoedd  yn  un  waedd  fawr  ofnadwy.  yna  y  gweles  Pawl  un  ai 

yno  y  gofynnes  Pawl  beth  oedd  hwn?  heb  yr  angel  drygddyn 
c^odd,  ac  ni  chadwes  ef  gyfreithiau  Dduw.  anniwair  oedd  ei  gorph 
^  ffals  ei  air  aU  weithred.  ai  feddwl,  a  chybydd  o'i  dda,  a  bradwr  a 
balch,  am  ddr^^g  fuchedd  efe  a  oddef  beth  direswn  o  boenau,  o 
ddydd  y  Fam  allan  :  ac  yna  yr  wylawdd  Pawl,  yna  y  dyfod  yr 
angel  pam  yr  wyt  yn  wylo?  ni  welaist  etto  mor  poenau  mwyaf  ag 
y  sydd  yn  Uffem,  ac  yna  y  dangosodd  iddo  bwU  uffem  dan  saith 
çlo.  ac  yno  y  dyfod  Mihangel  saf  hwnt  ymhell,  ni  elli  oddef  y 
trymsawr  y  sydd  yn  codi  oV  pwU  hwn,  a  phan  agored  safn  y  pwll 


fwiw- 


192 


CHWEDLAU, 


fe  godes  drygsiiwr  o  bono  jr  hwû  oedd  orthrwm  o>  tu  hwnt  i 
holl  boenau  uflem*  J^^  y  dyfod  jv  Ao^el,  pwy  bjTitiaf^  a  fwrir  it 
pwll  hwn  in  hydd  coSii  afii  dauo  g&rbron  Duw,  lieb  y  Pawl  fwy 
fwrir  yndda Ì  heb  yr  Angel,  y  sawl  ni  chredodd  it  Arglviydd  Ic 
Grî&t,  ac  ni  chredodd  ei  ddyfod  of  mown  CDawd  o  bad  yr  jspryd" 
glau,  ai  em  o  Fairforwyu,  ac  ni  cbawf^ant  fedydd  na  chymman 
Corpb  Crist,  nac  un  o  rinweddati  yp  Eglwys,  wedi  hynny  fe  welai 
Bawl  mewn  llo  arall,  Wyr  a  Crwragedd  a  çwiberc»d  a  nadroedd  yi 
eu  bwjtta  bwy,  yr  oedd  yr  eneidiau  yno  ar  eu  jEjilydd  fel  y  deC 
yn  y  Uong,  ac  yr  oedd  cyn  ddyfned  y  man  hwnnw  ac  oV  nef  i> 
ddaoar;  ac  yua  clybu  oerlefaio  mawr,  a  tbruTo  orbeneidio;  ac  yrj 
edrychodd  Pawl  i  fyuu  ac  ì  wared,  ac  yi]o  y  clybu  enaid  pŵchadari 
phwng  saith  o  GrythreulÌaÌd  yn  llcfain  ac  ya  udo,  ar  dydd  hwnnw 
y  ç\vahaQasaî  ef  oddiwrth  y  corpb,  ac  yno  y  j^aeddodd  aiigylion 
Duw  ar  yr  cnaid  bwnw,  ocb  y  druan  both  a  WDaethust  ti   yn  y 
byd  yma  Í  heb  yr  Ormes  gwyl  di  yr  Enaid  yma^  pa  wedd  y  torrad 
ef  orchymynion  Duw,  ac  yea  y  darlleawdd  ef  mewn  Ilyfr  ei  weilb- 
redocdd  dnv*g,  ac  ai  barnes  ef  ei  bunan  yn  gciUeilig :  ^Tia  y  cyai- 
merth  y  Oythrewliaid  of  yn  ei  cigweiniau  ac  a  aetbant  ac  ef  fr 
tywy  11  wg  pellaf,  lleV  wylo  ac  ysgytbni  a  ctir^Tinu  dannedd,  ac 
yno  y  djTvododd  yr  Angel  wrtb  Bawl,  cred  dí,  a  tbt  a  gcffi  mai 
malygwnel  iyn  yceiff,  wödi  hjTiny  fo  ddaeth  EngyUon  ac  Euaid 
dyn  cywir  gwirion  ac  a  aetbant  ac  of  iV  nef;  ac  yno  y  clyba  Bawl 
laifl  mil  o  Fibiodd  o  angylion  yn  canu  o  lawenydd,  **  Bydd  lawi^n 
eanys  ti  a  wnacthost  ewyllys  dy  Ddnw,"  yno  dyfod  yr  Engylion 
*'^codwch  ef  ger  bron"  ac  yno  y  darllenmld  ei  weiihredoedd,  « 
weitbredoedd  da ;  wedi  darfod  bynny  fo  ddug  Mihaugel  yr  «rnud 
hwnnw  i  Barad^vy  a,  lle'r  oedd  y  saint  oil,  ac  yno  yr  o«dd  g\raiedd 
o  lawenydd  gael  yr  Enaid  hwnnw  attynt  bwy  fel  pei  crynn^i  Nrf 
a  dacar,  yna  y  gweddiodd  y  pecbaduriaid  a  oeddynt  mewn  po«iiaxi, 
ac  a  ddywedasant  fal  bjmn  "  Mibangel  Archangel,  a  Phawl  AI*oa- 
tol  Crist,  Gweddiwch  drosom  ni  ar  Ddnw''  Heb  y  Mibangel  chwi 
a  ddyUaech  weddio  traV  oeddycb  ar  dir  gobaith,  end  weîthíau  hi 
aeth  >Ti  rhy  bwyr,  canys  bamau  Duw  ydynt  raal  ynt^iti  yn  ang- 
hyfnewidìol^  a  lie  y  ayrtliio  y  prenn  ynti  yr  crya,  Chvnthaa  Grŵt- 
nogîon  da  wedi  clywed  y  poenau,  a>  perygl  sydd  amocb  ;    tniwch 
«icb  Oalonnau  at  Dduw,  fal  y  galloch  deymaau  gydag  ef  yn  om 
oeâoedd.     Amm. 

Ac  felly  terfyna. 


CHWEDLAU.  193 


HWEDL  RHITTA  GAWR  .♦ 


Dau  Frenin  a  fu  gynt  yn  Ynys  Prydain,  sef  oedd  eu  henwau 
Nynniaw  a  PheiUaw^  ar  ddau  hynn  yn  rhodioV  meysydd  ar  un 
noswaith  oleu  serenog,  ebe  Nynniaw^  gwel  paryw  Faes  helaeth  a 
theg  y  sydd  gennyf  fi !  ymha  le  y  mae  ?  ebe  Peibiaw.  yr  toll 
wybren,  ebe  Nynniaw^  hyd  eîtha  golwg  a  therfyn :  gwel  dithau, 
ebe  Beibiaw^  y  maint  y  sydd  o  dda  a  defaid  gennyf  fi  yn  pori  dy 
files  di !  ymha  le  ebe  Nynniaw  y  maent !  yr  boll  ser  a  weli  di,  ebe 
Beibiaw.  yn  aur  tanlliw  bob  un  o  honynt,  ar  lleuad  yn  fugail 
amynt  ac  yn  en  harail !  ni  chant  ddim  aros  yn  fy  maes  i,  ebe 
Nynniaw.  hwy  a  gant  ebe  Beibiaw ;  na  chant  ebeV  un,  cant  ebeV 
Uall,  wers  tra-gwers.  onid  aeth  hi  yn  gynnen  gwyllt  a  therfysg 
rhyngddynt.  ac  yn  y  diwedd  o  ymryson  myned  i  Ryfel  fiymig. 
oni  laddwyd  gosgordd  a  gwlad  y  naill  aV  llall  yn  agos  oU  yn  yr 
ymladdau:  a  chlywed  a  wnaeth  Bhitta  G^wr  Brenin  Gymru  maint 
J  galanastra  a  wnaethant  y  ddau  Frenin  amhwyllgar  hynny  a 
bwiiadn  a  wnaeth  efe  dwyn  cyrch  a  gosod  yn  eu  herbyn,  a  gwedi 
myned  wrth  Fam  a  Bhaith  ei  wlad  ai  osgorddion,  cwnnu  a  wnaeth^ 
ant.  a  myned  yn  erbyn  y  ddau  Frenin  amhwyllgar,  a  aethant  M 
y  dywespwyd,  wrth  ddifrawd  ac  anraith.  gan  ddychymygion  o 
wallgof,  au  gortrechu  a  wnaethant.  ac  yna  torri  ymaith  eu  barfau 
a  wnaeth  Bitta ;  a  phan  glybu  y  rhai  eraill  o  wyth  brenin  aV  hu- 
gain  Ynys  Prydain  y  pethau  hynn,  ymgynnuU  a  wnaethant  eu 
holl  osgorddion,  er  dial  sarhad  y  ddau  frenin  eraill  a  ddifarfwyd, 
a  dwyn  cyrch  a  gosod  ar  Ritta  Gawr  ai  wyr.  ac  ymladd  glewdaer  a 
fu  o  bob  tu.  ond  Bhitta  Gawr  ai  osgordd  a  gawsant  y  maes. 
^  Llyma  fy  mawr  inneu  !  ebe  Bitta,  ac  yna  difarfu  yr  holl  fren- 
hinoedd  eraill  yno  a  wnaethant  ef  ai  wyr.  A  Brenhinoedd  yr  holl 
wledydd  eraill  cylch  ogylch  a  glywsant  ac  er  dial  sarhad  y  Bren- 
hinoedd a  ddifarfwyd.  ymarfogi  yn  erbyn  Bhitta  gawr  ai  wyr  a 
wnaethant.  a  thaer  a  glew  y  bu'r  ymladd,  ond  Bhitta  ai  wyr  yn 
ennill  y  maes  yn  bensych.  '^Llyma'*n  maes  helaeth  a  theg  ninnau  ! 
ebe  Bhitta,  a  difarfu'r  holl  Frenhinoedd  yno  a  wnaeth  Bitta  ai 
wyr.  Llymdr  anifeiliaid  a  borasant  fy  maes  %  ebe  Bitta  wrth  y 
Brenhinoedd  amhwyll  yno.  "  ac  mi  ai  gyrrais  hwy  allan  oU,  ni 
ekant  bari  fy  maes  i^  a  gwedi  hynny  y  cymmerwys  Bitta  yr  holl 


*  O  Lyfr  laco  ab  Dewi,  medd  lolo  Morganwg. 


194  CHWEDLAU. 

farfau  hynny.  ac  a  wnaeth  o  honynt  ysgin  helaeth  o  beim  hyd 
sawdl.  a  gwr  oedd  Bitta  gymmaint  ar  ddeuwr  mwyaf  a  welwyd 
erioed.  a  gwedi  hynny  y  gwnaeth  efe  ai  wlad  yn  gyntaf  ar  a 
wnaethpwyd  erioed  oi  bath.  Drefh  a  deddf  wrth  gyfiawnder  a 
phwyll  rhwng  Brenin  a  Brenin,  a  Gwlad  a  Gwlad,  yn  holl  Ynys 
Prydain,  aV  Werddon,  a  Llychlyn,  a'*r  Almaen,  a  Thir  Ghd,  ar 
Ysbain  ar  Eidal.  a  phoed  fyth  y  cadwer  y  drefn  ar  ddeddf  honno 
er  gwrthladd  y  cyfryw  Frenhinoedd  a  soniwyd  am  danynt  rhag 
myned  o  honynt  i  Byfel  mwyach  lie  na  bo  na  rhaid  na  chyfiawn 
yr  achos.  Amen,  a  phoed  felly  y  bo  dros  fyth. 

Ac  felly  y  terfyna  chwedl  Rhitta  Gawr. 


KYNFFIG. 

Mab  gwreng  yn  cani  merch  larll  y  Clar,  hi  nis  mjnnai  (am 
nad  oedd  oludog,  myned  i  ben  y  ffordd  fawr  a  gwilied  ysgogyn 
Arlwydd  y  Cyfoeth  yn  dychwel  o  gynnuU  anan  ei  Arlwydd  tua'r 
Gastell  ai  ladd  a  chymmeryd  ei  arian,  dangos  y  Fath,  ar  Biein  yn 
ei  briodi,  cynnal  Gwledd  anrhydeddus  a  gwawdd  goreuon  j  wlad 
iddi  a  gwneuthur  yn  llawen  hyd  yr  eithaf,  Yr  ail  noe  honno  ym 
myned  yn  ansawdd  priodas  a  phan  lawënaf  clywed  llaferydd, 
Gwrando'n  glustfain  a  deall,  Dial  daw !  Dial  daw !  Dial  daw ! 
deirgwaeth  gofyn  pa  bryd!  pen  y  nawfed  ach  ebe'^r  Uaferydd,  dim 
achos  i  ni  ofni  pawb  o  hano  ni  dan  y  ddaer  ymhell  cyn  hynny-* 
ond  byw  er  hynny  a  geni  goresgynnydd  iddynt,  goresgynnydd 
arall  iV  gwr  a  laddwyd  a  hwnnw  yn  gweled  pen  y  cyinod  yn 
ymweled  a  Ghynffig.  yn  fab  ieuanc  ymarweddbwyll  a  bonhed- 
igfoes  a  bwrw  golwg  ar  y  ddinas  ai  gwychder  heb  un  yn  meddr 
iannu  na  chwys  na  chell  ond  Epil  y  lleiddiad  ag  ynteu  yn  fyw  tt 
hunan  a'i  wraig,  ar  ganiad  y  Geiliog,  clywed  Ueferydd  dial  daeth* 
Dial  daeth.  dial  daeth  ar  bwy  y  daeth  ?  ar  a  laddwys  fy  nliad  oV 
nafed  ach!  cwnnu  mewn  dychryn,  myned  tuaV  Ddinas  dim  iddei 
ond  Uynn  mawr,  ag  ynddo  uwchlawV  wyneb  dri  phen  sawell  yn 
mygu  ar  mwg  yn  edafwr  drewllyd,  ar  wyneb  y  dwr  menig  y  gwr 
a  laddwyd  ar  eu  nawf  at  draed  y  gwr  ieuangc,  eu  cwnnu  a  gweled 
enw  ag  arfau  a  laddwyd  a  Uafar  gan  gwawr  yn  molianna  Dow 
a  myrddiynau  cerddi  nefolion.  ag  felly  Terfyna. 


AMRYWIAETHAU. 


GWYDDOR  DEWmiAETH  GILDAS  BROFFWYD 

A  PYNNo  wybod  wrth  Ddywiniaeth  cymmered  gyngor  ag  addysg, 
*  gwnaed  yn  ei  ôl. 

1.  Cared  Ddaw  ai  holl  galon.  ai  hoU  serch.  ai  boll  egni,  ai 
holl  ddeall.  a  holl  gynheddfau  ei  enaid,  ai  holl  ymgais,  parth  j 
rhain  oU. 

2.  Cared  ei  gymmodog  ai  holl  ynmau  cyn  belled  ag  nas  torro 
hynny  ar  ei  gariad  tuag  at  Dduw 

3.  Ymryddhäed  oddiwrth  oil  ag  a  alio  ef  ei  feddwl,  a  hyd 
eitha  deall  a  fo  er  lies  a  diddanwch  neu  unryw  raneboddiaeth  byn- 
mig  iddo  ei  hunan  nac  i  a  garo ;  ag  yn  unwedd  ymryddhâu  oddi- 
wrth 7  peth  a  ofoai  ag  nas  carai  erddo  ef  ei  hun  ag  erddynt  a 
garai ;  yn  y  modd  ag  nas  gellid  ar  feddwl  unpeth  oV  byd  a  fai  a 
chwennychai  nag  a  ymwrthodai  iddo  ef  ei  hun  nac  i  a  garai,  na 
dim  ar  ddeall  a  ddymunai  ar  a  angharai  o  ddyn  nag  o  beth. 

4.  Bydded  wr  Deddfol  a  Dedwydd  o  reddf  a  Chynneddf.  a  dwyf- 
awl  o  gydwybod,  a  dedwydd  ynniawl. 

5.  Bwried  ystyr  a  phwyll  ar  a  welo  yn  y  byd  gan  ymolrhain 
«a  bonedd  au  magwriaeth,  au  cerddediad,  au  peirioldeb,  au  diw- 
eddiad,  ac  edryched  a  ddaeth,  y  sydd,  ag  a  ddaw  o  honynt. 

6  Yna  efe  a  ddeall  y  peth  a  fo  da,  aV  peth  a  fo  drwg,  y  peth  a 
weddai  fod,  aV  peth  nas  gweddai,  a  phob  iawn  a  chyfiawn,  a  phob 
«am  ag  anghyfiawn  a  phob  cam  a  phob  cymmwys  ar  air  meddwl  a 
^weithred.  a  phob  lies  a  phob  afles,  a  phob  hardd  a  phob  anhardd, 
a  phob  berth  a  phob  anferth,  a  phob  gwir,  a  phob  celwydd,  a  phob 
eariad  a  phob  cas,  a  phob  Uwydd,  a  phob  aflwydd,  a  phob  gwan  a 
phob  cadam,  a  phob  dechreu  a  phob  diwedd,  a  phob  ymmod  a 
phob  gorphwys,  a  phob  bod  a  phob  anfod,  a  phob  adfod  a  phob 
darfod,  a  phob  galledig  a  phob  analledig,  ac  o  ddeall  a  gweled  ag 
ystyriaw  hynn  oU  o  bethau.  efe  a  wèl  a  ddylai  fod  ag  a  ddylai 
ddyfod,  ag  ag  a  ddylai  adfod,  ag  a  ddylai  ddarfod,  ag  a  ddylai  gydfod, 
ag  a  ddylai  orfod.  ag  o  weled  a  ddylai  efe  a  wybydd  a  ddylai  fod, 

2  c 


1 96  AMRYWIAETHAU. 

ag  0  wybod  a  ddylai  fod,  ar  amser  y  dylai  fod,  ar  modd  j  djlû 
fod,  ar  achos  y  dylai  fod,  efe  a  wybydd  a  wna  Duw,  canys  ni  wna 
Duw  ond  a  ddylai  fod  aV  modd  y  dylai  fod  aV  pryd  y  dylai  fod, 
nag  yn  amgen  o  fodd  nag  y  dylai  fod,  nag  ym  modd  ond  a  ddylai 
fod,  ag  yn  yr  amser  y  dylai  fod,  ag  yn  nosparth  y  dylai  fod ;  ag 
o  wybod  a  gweled  a  deall  a  wna  Duw,  modd  a  phryd  j  dylai  fod, 
efe  a  broSwyda  a  ddylai  fod,  ag  a  fydd,  ag  ni  feüi  ar  ei  fod  ai 
hanfod,  yn  ei  le  ai  amser  dyladwy. 

Ag  mal  hynn  y  cawsant  y  profiwydi  santaidd  wybodaeth  am  a 
wnelai  Dduw,  ag  ai  prophwydasant.  ag  yn  yr  un  modd  y  cawsant  y 
Beirdd  o  BroflEwydi  ymhlith  y  Cymry  yr  wybodaeth  honn,  ag  t 
brofiwydasant  ddamwain,  a  thynged,  a  helynt.  eu  Oenedl  hyd 
ddydd  brawd.  a  Daw  a  rotho'r  wybodaeth  honn  i  bob  Bardd  o 
Gymro,  oi  ddirfawr  râd  ai  ddawn,  ag  i  bob  Gymro  arall,  mal  j 
gwnelo  parthei  hun  ai  genedl  herwydd  ewyllys  Duw  ymhob 
daioni  Amen  fyth. 

A  honn  a  elwir  Gwers  Gildas  brofiwyd  ag  efe  ai  dywawd  ge^ 
bron  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain  lie  ydd  aethant  yngorsedd  i  brofiii^d- 
aw  a  ddelai  ar  y  Brenin  Arthur  ag  ar  genedl  y  Gymra« 


TYBIAWN. 

GwEDi  goresgyn  o'r  Gwyddelod  wlad  Fon  ag  arfon  a'r  Oantief 
ag  eraill  wladoedd  yng  Ngwynedd  Yspaid  trichant  a  naw  aV 
hugain  mlwydd  daeth  ar  y  Cymry  ymgais  a  chyfnerth  y  gan 
Frenhinoedd  Gorwlad,  aV  gyrru  allan  y  Gwyddelod.  a'r  Bienhin- 
oedd  hynny  a  ddaethant  ynghyd  He  y  gnotteynt  o  bri&rfer,  nid 
amgen  no  Ghaerllion  ar  wysg  ym  Morganwg  ag  yno  myned  yng- 
hyngor,  a  gwedi  hir  ymddadlu,  nis  gellid  arfeddyd  am  nas  G«Uid 
Braint  gwlad  ar  a  wnelai  ryfel  adoresgyn  ar  y  QwyddyL  Yna 
Tybiawn  mab  hynaf  Cynneddaf  wledig  Brenin  y  Gogledd  a  ddy- 
wed  fal  hynny.  Lie  nis  gellir  Braint  Gwlad  Bid  iawn  braint  arfiui, 
ag  ymarfoUynt  wyr  ieuainc  dyledog  o  brif  deuluoedd  Cenedl  y 
Cymry,  a  dygent  gyrch  a  gosawd  ar  wladoedd  y  Gwyddyl  gan  eu 
Uadd  a'u  gyrru  ar  ffo  drwy  for,  a  rhodder  Teymedd  Vr  Tywysog 
awnelo  hynny  ar  y  wlad  y  gorfeddo.  a  Brenin  Caerllion  a  wian- 
dawes  yn  llawen  ar  y  mab  ieuanc  yna  dy wed  Tyb  iawn  dy  dyb  di, 
Bid  Tybiawn  dy  enw  bid  ym  mraint  Teymedd  Ynys  Prydain  a 
wneler  yn  Uwrw  a  femaist,  a  myned  yn  eu  cynghor  a  wnaethant, 
a  phwy  ond  meibion  Cynneddaf  wledig  yn  ymgymmeryd  a'r  gor 


AMRYWIAETHAU.  197 

cheetion,  a  gyrraV  Gwyddelod  a  wnaethant,  ag  ar  y  gwledydd  a 
ddaresgynasant  rhodded  iddynt  i  bob  un  ei  Deymedd.  ag  fal 
hyimy  j  cawsant  wehelyth  gyneddaf  weledig  braint  Teymedd  ar 
wledydd  Cymry  a  diffawd  yr  hen  wehelythoedd  a  fu  cyn  no  hynny 
am  nas  gallyant  Gkulw  en  cyfoetheu  rhag  gormes  Estron.  ag  nid 
aroses  yn  e^u  Braint  namyn  Ghirehelyth  Brenin  dyfedd  ag  an 
Ghierllion  sef  honno  gwehelyth  Bran  fendigaid  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 
ag  Urien  agyno  Urien  Bheged  yn  Ben  hynaif  a  ddodes  Gademyd 
ar  a  wnaethpwyd  yn  nghyngor  Tybiawn. 


ARFER  TYWYSOGION  CYMRU 

Abfsb  Tywysogion  Cymm  ,oedd  pan  ymgydwelaint  a^u  gilydd 
mewn  Gwledd  Rial,  oedd  galw  y  naill  aV  llall  Gerfydd  enwau 
Gwledydd,  sef,  Dinefwr,  Aberffraw,  Mathrafal,  Morganwg  a 
Maelienydd,  a  Q^reinwg.  Un  amser  yn  y  Llys  Wen  ar  Wy  a  Mor- 
gan ab  Ithel  o  Forganwg  yno  heb  na  chad  na  gosgordd  gydag  ef. 
rbai  ai  bychenynt  achos  hynny  ai  famu  yn  dlawd,  a  dechreu  son 
am  ea  gosgorddaa  Arfogion,  a  chadamed  pob  un  pei  a  gelyn  y 
cyfl^nrddai  ar  ei  ymrawd,  a  phob  on  yn  wych  ei  ansawdd  yn  ei 
ODKB  ei  hunan.  a  gwedi  son  ag  un  ag  eraill.  a  gweled  Morgan  yn 
ddilafar,  gofyn  iddaw  a  wnaeth  Anarawd  Gwynedd  pa  beth  a  wedi 
di  Morganwg.  ebe  Morganwg,  gallaf  dramwy  fa  ngwlad  man  y 
mynnwyf  heb  ofni  gelyn  gallaf  hynny  yn  eich  gwledydd  chwithau 
on  ag  eraill,  gallaf  Gymru  a  Lloegr,  a  gadael  fy  nghywiriaid  bob 
on  yn  ei  fan  ai  ansawdd,  heb  na  galw  na  gormes  amynt,  ond  os 
cam  a  gaf  man  y  bwyf,  braidd  ei  glywed  gan  fy  nghywleidiaid. 
cyn  au  gweler  yn  arfog  ag  ar  ymrawd  parth  y  bont  am  camwedd- 
aint.  a  dial  amynt,  pa  raid  gosgordd  i  frenin  fiyddloniaid  ai  carant. 
Tydi  dy  wala  ebe  Hy wel  dda.  cynmier  y  blaen  gennyf  ag  er  mwyn 
Ihiw  a  pho  daioni  danfon  attaf  i'r  Ty  Gwyn  ar  Daf  ni  waeth  ba 
ddenddeg  o'r  Doethion  Morganwg.  a  hynny  a  fu  a  Blegywryd  ei 
frawd  yn  benymbwyll  iddynt.  lie  bu  mawr  eu  clod  am  ddoethineb. 
ag  o  hynny  hyd  heddyw  Gair  cyfarch  Beirdd  Morganwg.  Duw  a 
phob  daioni.  a  gair  Deheubarth  Galon  wrth  galon,  a  gwedi  hynny 
dodi  ar  Bywys  A  laddo  a  leddir.  a  Gruffydd  ap  Gynan  .a  ddodes 
ar  wynydd  lesn.  a  G^reinwg,  un  car  ymhen  cant  cadam. 
Gwel  Cyfrinach  y  Beirdd. 

Cyn  no  hynny  nid  oedd  Cadair  ar  Gymry  namyn  im  Caerllion 
ar  Wysg. 


198  AMRYWIAETHAU. 


MADAWC  Mm. 

Fal  hynn  j  mae  mewn  llawer  Llyfr  am  Frad  Madawo  Min 
Esgob  Bangor,  (Gwel  aohau  15  llwyth  Qi¥7iiedd.) 

Madawc  Min,  ap  Gywryd,  ap  Ednywain  Bendew  Brenin  Teg- 
eingi,  Efe  a  wnaeth  frad  y  Tywysawc  Llywelyn  ap  SeisyUi,  ag  o 
hynny  y  lias  Lywelyn  ;  a  chwedy  hynnv  yr  Un  Madawc  MId  a 
wnaeth  frad  y  Tywysawc  GmfFudd  ap  Llywelyn  ap  Seisyllt,  er 
gwerth  tri  chan  pen  gwartheg  a  gafÌEis  ef  ar  addaw  am  ei  frad  gan 
Harallt  Brenin  y  Saeaon.  a  gwedi  llwyddaw  yn  ei  frad  Hanillt  ni 
thalai  iddo  y  Gwartheg  Yna  Madawo  a  aeth  mewn  llong  ar  oddea 
Tre  Ddulyn  yn  y  Werddon,  ond  boddes  y  llong  heb  goUi  bywyd 
o  neb  namyn  Madawc  Min,  ac  M  hynny  y  digwyddawdd  dial 
Duw  amaw  am  ei  fràdy  a  phoed  felly  y  bo  i  bob  Bndwr  gwlad  a 
Brenin  yn  yr  holl  fyd.  A  gwr  Gymmaint  ei  ystryw  ai  ddiehdl 
oedd  y  Madawc  hwnnw  fal  y  daethpwyd  i  alw  Madawo  a  madjn 
ar  Lwynawc,  sef  mwyaf  ei  ystryw  oV  holl  wyllt  filod  yw  lAwjuxtgi 
a  Bradgaraf  oV  holl  Fradwyr.  Madawc  Min 


.GRUFFUDD  AP  MEREDYDD. 

Gruffudd  ap  Meredydd  Grethin  ap  yr  Arglwydd  Jthya  a  (i|  yn 
Arglwydd  Gaerllion  ar  wysg  a  Ghyfoeth  Meredydd  Aé  efe  a 
wnaith  gastell  Machen  yng  Nghaerllion,  ac  efe  a  fy  yn  Arglwydd 
Llanymddyfri  a  Thai  y  Llechey,  ac  efe  a  wnaeth  GaiatteU  Uauym- 
ddyfri,  ac  yn  y  Castell  hynny  y  bu  ef  farw  ar  nos  wyl  Veir  yn 
Awst  ac  a  gladdwyd  yn  Ystroed  Ffiyr,  a  mam  GroSiidd  ap  Me- 
redydd G^thin  oedd  Wenllian  Vch  Syr  lorwerth  ap  Owain  Wan 
Arglwydd  Gaerllion  ar  wysg. 

Meredydd  ap  Groffudd  ap  Meredydd  Gethin  Arglwydd  Ojf- 
oeth  Meredydd  a  Ghaerllion  ar  wysg  a  wnaeth  y  Oaatell  Newydd 
ar  wysg.  Mam  y  Meredydd  hwnnw  oedd  o  Lann  Ayron 

A  Syr  Morgan  ap  Meredydd  oedd  ei  fab  yntey  o  Vch  Ghawgan 
ap  Madoc  Arglwydd  Maesyved  o  Vch  Phe  ap  Meyryo  ap  Owaa 
Teilo  0  Went  Gwraic  Syr  Morgan  ap  Meredydd  oedd  Grisli  yerch 
Dafydd  ap  Meyryc  o  Went,  ac  or  Grisli  honno  by  Merch  Tr  Syr 
Morgan  hwnnw  a  elwid  Angharad  ferch  Morgan  yr  hon  Vch  y 
canwyd  yr  Englyn  hwnn  iddi. 


AMBYWIAETHAjCr.  199 

Hawdd  fyd  iawn  wryd  wen  eirian  yng  Nghaer, 
Angharad  ferch  Morgan 
Lliw  rydd  ayr,  Uaw  rodd  amn 
Llwýr  oreu  merch  lliw^r  eiry  man. 

Ar  Angharad  honno  oedd  mam  Morgan  ap  Llywelyn,  ap  Llyw- 
elyn  ap  Ifor,  —        -—        —  ♦diffyg  dalen  yma  yn 

Llyfr  Coch  Pant  Lliwydd. 


IEUÂN  GETHIN- 

IsuAN  Gethin  ab  leuan,  ab  Lleison  ab  Bhys  ab  Morgan  Fy- 
ehan,  ap  Morgan  Arglwydd,  ap  Caradoc,  ap  lestin,  ap  Gwrgan 
Tywysawg  Morganwg  a  Gwent  a  Gwyr. 

lenan  ap  leuan  Lleison  a  fa  gydag  Owain  Glyndyfrdwy  yn 
torn  Cestyll  y  Twyllbendefigion  ym  Morganwg,  a  phan  aeth  y 
dydd  yn  erbyn  Owain  a  gorfod  amo  fyned  dan  gel  a  Ohudd.  gorfu 
hefyd  ar  lenan  ap  Lleison  fyned  yn  wr  eel  a  chudd  hyd  Fôn  at  hen 
gyfiull  cad  iddaw,  ar  hoU  ameer  y  bn  ef  yno  ydd  oedd  y  Brenin 
HarriV  Bammed  yn  lladd  ag  yn  gormesa  pob  on  a  femid  yn  gy- 
mhlaid  ag  Owain,  ond  ymhen  tro  cyttunwyd  rhwng  y  Oymry  ar  Bre- 
nin ymiawnhâa  er  arian  an  Gwerth  yn  wartheg  a  defaid  a  daoedd 
eraill.  Yna  ydd  ymiawnhawyd  dros  leuan  ap  Lleision  sef  Cant  o 
bennaa  Gwartheg  a  deucant  o  ddyfaid,  wedi  hynny  efe  a  ddaeth 
adref,  ag  ymhen  amser  wedi  hynny  fe  fynnodd  y  Brenin  ladd  Ua- 
wer  o'r  Cymry  am  nas  gallant  daluV  iawn  nag  yn  arian  nag  yn 
wertb.  achaws  eu  tylodi,  a  hynn  yn  dyfod  i  glyw  leuan  ap  Lleison 
efe  a  ddywad  y  ddiarhebgoel  hon,  sef. 

Tri  pheth  nid  ebrwydd  au  gwelir,  yn  sych ;  MHwn  Môn,  Gwae- 
lod  Llyn  Tegid,  a  dwylaw  Gwaedlyd  Hen  Harri  Can,  sef  Harri 
Can  y  G^lwaiV  Cymry  Harri  Frenin  y  pummed.  a  myned  a 
wnaeth  y  goel  honn  ar  gof  a  llafar  Ghvlad  ag  y  mae  hyd  heddyw. 
«-(Llyfr  Mr.  Bassett,  o  Lann  y  Lai.) 


RHYS  BRYDYDD 
[O  Ysgriflyfr  y  Parchedig  Roger  Williams :    sef  casgliad  a 
*  Synniad  lolo  Morganwg  yw'r  uchod,  ar  waU  yr  ysgrif. — Ab  Iolo. 


200  AMRYWIAETHAÜ. 

wnaeth  o  bethau  amrafaelion,  ond  yn  fwyaf  neilldaol,  Achau, — 
rhwng  1600  ao  1622.— Ab  Iolo.]  ^ 

Bts  Brjdyth  o  lanharan  or  ty  ym  maelen  kynllan  a  little 
Ryver  of  that  name  wher  levan  gitto  ap  leva  yscolaige  dyd  dwelL 
o  Eys  brydyth  y  bu  Rychard  ap  Rys,  y  Bychard  y  bu  lien  ap 
Bychard,  yr  hwn  y  elwid  yn  lewis  morganwg  yng  wynedd* 

Ve  vy  vab  arall  y  Eys  brydyth  a  elwid  leva  ap  Eys,  y  levan 
ap  Eys  y  ba  tho:  ap  leva  ap  Eys,  yr  hwn  elwid  torn  ap  leva  ap 
Eys  gwndidwr,  ag  oeddyn  trigo  yn  llandydwg 

Eys  brydyth  had  a  sonne  named  Eychard,  y*  sayd  Eychard  had 
a  Sonne  named  Uën  ap  Eychard,  the  w^  lien  ap  Eychard  was  was 
named  lewis  morganwg  in  north  wales* 

The  sayd  Eys  brydyth  had  another  sonne  named  levan,  the 
sayd  levan  had  a  sonne  named  Thomas  the  Thomas  was  comonlye 
called  Tom  ap  levan  ap  Eys  gwnditor  and  he  dyd  dwell  in  1^- 
thigtow  otherwyse  called  in  welshe  llandydwg 

Lien  ap  Eychard  ap  Eys  Brydyth  o  lanharan* 

Thomas  ap  levan  ap  Eys  Brydyth  o  landydwg 

lien  ap  Eychard,  and  Thomas  ap  levan  were  Goossine  gennans. 


GRUFFXJDD  AP  lEUAN  AB  EHYS  BBYDYDD. 

[Llyfr  Thos.  Hopcin  o  Langralio ;  He,  gwedi  enwi  fal  uchod,  yr 
ychwanegir  fal  hynn. — ^Ab  Iolo.] 

I  leuan  ab  Ehys  Brydydd  y  bu  fab  arall  a  elwid  Oroffadd,  a 
chan  lawer  efe  a  elwid  Gntto  ab  leuan,  Prydydd  ynteu  hefyd,  a 
mab  iddo  yn  byw  yn  awr  ym  Mlaen  Gynllan  a  elwir  leuan  Outto 
leuan  ysgolhaig,  a  leuan  Ysgolhaig,  a  chan  eraill  leuan  GToffudl 
y  gelwir  ef.  Gwr  ysgolheigaidd  a  doeth  o  leithydd  a  Phrydydd. 


RHYS  BRYDYDD. 

Ehys  Brydydd  o  Lanharan  oedd  yn  byw  yn  y  ty  ym  Mlaen 
Cynllan. 

Dau  fab  oedd  i  Eys  Brydydd,  un  Ehisiart  ap  Ehys  Brydydd,  a 
hwnnw  yn  Brydydd,  ag  efe  oedd  Athraw  lorwerth  Pynglwyd,  ag 
yn  byw  yn  y  Merthyr  Mawr.  ai  fab  ef  oedd  Ehys  ab  Rhisiart 
Brydydd,  oV  Wig. 


AMRYWIAETHAÜ.  201 

.  Ail  fab  i  Rys  Brydydd  oedd  leuan  ap  Rhys  Brydydd,  ag  ym 
Margam  ydd  oedd  ef  yn  byw.  efe  a  fu  yno  yn  fynach,  ond  achaws 
ei  gyfrif  yn  anffyddlon  efe  a  droed  i  maes  oV  Fonachlog,  Ag  a  fu 
yno  wedi  hynny  yn  Dal  tir  ag  yn  briod  ag  iddaw  blant  a  gorfu 
arno  efe  ai  blant  fyned  oddyno  achaws  Syr  Matthew  Garadog  o 
Abertawy,  efe  aeth  i  Ferthyr  Cynon  ym  Mrycheiniog  lie  bu  yn 
hir  ag  a  ddaeth  wedi  hynny  i  Langynwyd  i  fyw  ag  a  fa^n  cadw 
Ysgol  yno.  ydd  ef  yn  Brydydd  a  Chwndidwr  da. 

I  leoan  ab  Bhys  y  bu  fab  a  elwid  Thomas  ab  Ifan  ab  Bhys,  ag 
yn  gyffiredin  Twm  Ifan  Pys,  fe  fu  yng  Ngharchar  yng  Nghastell 
GyniBSg  gan  Syr  Matthew  Garadawc  wedi  hynny  fe  roddes  Syr  Mat- 
thew iddaw  ei  ryddyd,  ag  a  ddodes  dir  dan  ei  law  ef  yn  rhywle  yn  y 
gymmydogaeth  hynny.  bu  wedi  hynny  yn  byw  ym  Margam.  A 
gwedi  hynny  yn  Llangynwyd.  ag  yn  ei  henaint  fe  ddaeth  i  fyw  i 
Landidwg,  ag  a  dreulws  ei  ddyddiau  diwedd  ym  Margam.  ydd 
oedd  ef  yn  Brydydd  da  o  Deuluwr  a  Chwndidwr,  ag  achos  ei  fod 
o^r  flP^dd  newydd,  efe  a  gafas  lawer  am  ei  benn.  a  chasineb  gan 
fwy  na  mwy.  efe  a  fu  fyw  i  oedran  Mawr,  canys  efe  ddywed  ar 
Diiban  fal  hynn. 

Un  mil  chwech  cant  yn  gywrain, 
A  phedair  blwydd  yn  gyfain, 
Dechreu  lonor,  cyfrif  teg, 
Wyf  gant  a  deg  ar  hugain. 
(o  Lyfr  Mr.  Lewys  o  Ben  Llin.) 

Fal  hynn   y   maeV  hanes   am   Twm  leuan  ab  Rhys  yn  Llyfr 

Sion  Bradford. 

leuan  ab  Rhys  oedd  fynach  ym  Margam,  eithr  efe  a  drowyd 
i  maes  o'*r  Fonâchlog  achos  ei  fod  yn  Loleraidd  ei  fam.  wedi  hynny 
efe  a  briodwys  Fynaches  a  drowyd  i  maes  o  ryw  Fonachlog,  ag  a 
fuant  fyw  yng  Nghynffig,  eithr  Syr  Matthew  Caradog  o  Abertawy 
ai  canlynwys  ef  a  chyfraith  am  ryw  beth,  mae'n  debyg,  yn  ei  fam 
am  grefydd,  oni  orfu  arno  ymadael  a  Chynffig,  efe  a  gafodd  le"ym 
Merthyr  Cynon  yn  Sir  Frycheiniog  lie  bu  yn  dala  rhyw  faint  o 
dir.  ymhen  rhyw  amser  fe  ddaeth  yn  ol  i  Forganwg,  He  bu'*n  cadw 
Ysgol.  Prydydd  da  oedd  ef. 

Ydd  oedd  mab  i  leuan  ap  Rhys  a  elwid  Thomas,  yr  hwn  oedd 
Twm  ab  Ifan  ab  Rhys  y  Prydydd  aV  Prophwyd,  fe  fu  hynn  mewn 
rhyw  alwad  yn  y  Fonachlog  ym  Margam,  ag  efe  ai  trowyd  ef  i 
maes  oddyno  ag  a  f u  yngharchar  amryw  o  weithiau  yng  Nghastell 


202 


AMRYWUETHAU. 


Cÿnffig  gan  Sjr  Matthew  Carrvdog,  yr  hwn  o>  or  divredd  ai  rhova 
of  yn  rj'dd  ag  a  fu  haclionus  tua^;  atto,  ofe  a  fuV  dala  tîr,  ym  Mar- 
gam  a  Llani^ynwyd  a  Uefydd  eraill,  uqh  iddo  gwympo  ì  ryw  fedd- 
ylüE  anghyffredin,  ar  hynny  fe  ddodwyd  ef  yugharchar  gan  Syr 
Oeorgö  Hörbcrt  o  Abörtawy  ynghaatell  Cynffig,  ag  ar  ol  cael  ei 
ryddyd  ni  wnaeth  of  neiiior  iawn  o  beth  ond  rhndioV  Wlad  fal 
Cardottyn,  a  dymu  rhyw  ychydig  weitliiau,  a  gwnôtitimr  Cwn- 
didau  Duwiol  a  phropliwydô  llawcr  o  bethau,  ag  am  hynny  y 
gelwyd  ef  Twm  Gdict/dd  u^, 

Yr  oedd  wedi  dechrou  prophwydo  cyn  cael  ei  garcharu  gan  Syr 
(ieorge  Herbert,  a  bynu,  meddiV,  oedd  yr  achoa  AVedi  geni  mab 
o  Difedd  i  Syr  George  fo  gynbaliwyd  wledd  a  Ebialtwch  gorfoledd 
mawr  ar  fedydd  y  plentyn,  gan  bodoliV  ceffylau  ag  Arian,  a  Ihivfer 
o  bethau  oraill  C0Btu3  iawn  o>  cytTelyb»  Twm  ab  Ifan  ab  Rhys  yn 
gweled  hyiin  a  ddywed^  Hal  dy^ia  Bìü^s^  a  halchder  maicr  tcrtÁ 
fédÿdâio  pÌ€ìitÿìi  a  amd  i  pngrogi  tfirth  linffn  ei  dalaithî  cymniur- 
wyd  ef  dan  graff,  a  dodwyd  ef  yagbarcbar  ynghaíîtell  Cynffig,  a 
dodwyd  y'plentyn  dan  ofal  Mammacth,  a  gorchymDiyn  iddi  wiled 
yn  fanol  ag  yn  ofalus  arno  nos  a  dydd,  bynn  a  fu  dros  ryyr  amfter, 
ond  fe  aeth  ar  son  yn  y  teulu  fod  y  crafu  ar  y  famaetli,  danfnnodd 
Syr  George  ai  Arlwyddea  am  dani  i>  neuadd  attynt  fal  y  caent 
wolod  pun  ai  bod  liynny'^n  wir  al  nad  oedd,  a  chwedi  gweled  Dsd 
oedd  dim  o'r  crafu  arnî  aethant  gyda  hi  ynol  W  ystafell  UeMd 
oedd  y  plentyii,  a'r  peth  cyctaf  a  welent  yno,  oedd  y  plentyn  yn 
ei  gawell  wedi  gwan  ei  ddwylaw  dan  liuin  ei  dalaJth  a  cbwedi  ei 
ymddryau  nhwy  ynddo  yn  y  cyfryw  fod  A,  lies  iddo  daga  a  marw 
o'r  achoSj  neu  fel  ygellld  gwedyd  mown  gwirionedd,  wodi  ymgrogi 
yn  Uinyn  ei  dalaitb,  yna  danfonwyd  yn  heinif  lawn  i  ryd<Iliâu  Ttätä 
ab  Ifan  ab  Rhya,  ag  i  roi  arian  iddo. 

Un  pryd  anill  ydd  oedd  ef  mewn  ^ectibor  yn  dyrnu,  ag  feddaeih 
llanc  ifani;  heibío  ag  a  gyfarcbwya  idib*  fal  hynn,  Wd*  Tìûm  Goí- 
itÿdd  teŷ,  pìj  fktiüt/dd  sy  gtnnyt  tì  hSdy  ?  y  matf  ^mnÿf  néwydd  i  íi, 
Ẃeê/y  Ti  a  fyddi  farw  o  dn  Atifjau  cyn  y  rws  hmo.  ka!  haì  eíwr 
Uatic^  ni  all  n^b  farw  ond  o  un  angaui  ag  a  aeth  ymaiih  tlao  i 
chwerthin.  yngherdded  y  dydd  fe  aeth  Ì  llane  i  benn  pren  tn^iwr  or 
fin  afon  Ì  dynnu  oyth  Barcut,  ag  wrth  wiiu  ei  law  iV  nyth  efe  ai 
rwygwA'd  gan  neidr  a  ddyE;wyd  yno  gan  y  Jiarcut  iddei  hadar  mat 
fal  y  main  nawd  ÌddÌ  wnouthnr^  gwnaetli  hynn  iddo  ellwng  ei  afaol 
BOB  iddo  gwympo  ì  lawr  ar  golfeu  fawr  a  thorri  ei  wddwg»  ag  oddî- 
yno  Cv  Afon,  ag  yna  y  cafaa  ef  dri  Angau,  ei  rwygaw  gau  ocidr. 
Torn  Owddwg,  a  boddi. 


AMRYWIAETHAU.  203 

Ydd  oedd  Twm  ab  Ifan  ab  Bhys  yn  wr  duwiol  a  da  iawn  me- 
ddiV,  ag  yn  Brydydd  da,  y  mae  llawer  o  gwndidau  fyth  ol  waith  ef 
ar  glawr  gwlad.  y  mae  sou  iddo  ddodi  rhai  o  henynt  mown  print, 
ond  nid  oes  nemor,  os  neb,  yn  fyw  yn  awr  ag  ai  gwelasant  erioed. 
dywedir  iddo  weled  mewn  llyfr  bychan  ysgrifen  y  geiriau  hynn. 

"  Ymgaifl  o  dy  dduw  a'th  holl  allu,  a'th  hoU  fwriad,  ag  ath  hoU 
Ddeall,  a  char  ef  a^th  holl  serch  ac  aHh  holl  ewyllys  ag  aHh  holl 
galon. 

G&r  dy  gymydog  fal  y  cerit  dy  hunan.  a  dioddef  drosto  a  ddi- 
oddefit  dros  dy  Dduw  a  thros  dy  gar  anwylgu,  a  thros  dy  hunan. 

Car  pob  daionus  a  phob  hardd,  a  phob  gwir,  a  phob  iawn,  fal  y 
oerit  dy  Dduw  aHh  hunan. 

Glŷn  wrthynt  oni  bot  gymmaint  yn  un  ag  wynt  ag  y  mae  Duw, 
ag  o  wneuthur  felly  ti  a  fyddi  mor  wahanedic  oddiwrth  pob  drwg  a 
drygionus,  ac  oddiwrth  pob  anhardd  ac  anweddus,  a  phob  anwir- 
edd,  a  phob  anghyfìawn,  a  phob  twyll  a  phob  hud,  ag  y  mae  Duw 
«  hon. 

Nag  ofna  na  chosp  na  phoen  nag  un  eisiau  neu  ddifiyg,  nag  un 
dioddef  pei  angau,  ag  na'th  rwystrer  ganthynt 

Na  chwanta  ddim  o  ddaoedd  byd  a  welot  nag  a  glywot  am  dan- 
ynt  nag  a  ddeallot,  namyn  daoedd  o  Dduw  ai  rad  oi  Yspryd  Glan. 
a  gmdael  i  dy  Dduw  drosot  ac  erddot. 

Ag  o  gaffaeliad  ar  hynn  a  gampau  a  chyneddfau  y  ceffi  ddeall 
eyfiawn  ar  bob  peth  oV  byd,  ag  o  ddeall  cyfiawn  gwybodaeth  gyf- 
iawn,  ag  o  wybodaeth  gyâawn  gwybod  oil  a  fu,  y  sydd,  ac  a  fydd. 
ac  o  hynny  awen  o  Dduw  a  medr  ar  Brophwydoliaeth,  yna  y  gwy- 
byddi  ac  y  dangosi  oil  a  ddaw  ar  y  byd  hyd  ddydd  brawd,  canys 
golwg  Duw  a  fydd  ynot.**' 

Wedi  darllain  hynn  efe  a  ymrois  yn  wr  Duwiol  iawn  ac  a  ddy- 
wed  lawer  o  brophwydoliaethau,  ag  ni  fynnai  yn  yn  y  byd  o  dda 
namyn  a  roddid  o  fodd  iddo  am  waith  a  wnelai.  a  hynny  dymu 
yd  gan  mwyaf. 


COELBREN  Y  BEIRDD. 

YR  HEN  AWGRYMAU. 

Ctn  amser  Beli  mawr  ab  Manogan  nid  oedd  amgen  na  deg 
llythyren  ar  deg  awgrymau  gelwid  nid  amgen  nac  a,  /?,  c,  ^,  í,  /,  /, 
r,  o,  # — gwedi  hynny  cafad  »i,  ac  w,  a  gwedi  hynny  pedwair  eraill 

2d 


204  AMRYWIAETHAU. 

au  rhoi  jn  unarbjmtheg  ar  ddatrin  a  gosteg  gwlad  a  chenedL 
Gwedi  dyfod  j  ffydd  yng  Nghrist  dau  lythjren  eraill  nid  amgen 
{7  a  D.  ac  yn  amser  y  brenin  Arthur  doded  ngain  Uythyren  gy»- 
sefin  fal  yn  awr.  o  gyngor  Taliesin  Ben  Beirdd  Bardd  Tenln 
Urien  Rheged.  ac  ar  ddosparth  y  deunaw  y  trefiiwyd  O,  I,  U,  sef 
Enw  aflafar  Duw.  cyn  hynny  o  drefh  O,  I,  O,  ydoedd.  herwydd 
yr  un  ar  bymtheg  ag  o  brif  awgrymau  nid  oes  hyd  yn  awr  amgen 
nac  again  Llythyren  neu  ugain  awgrym.  a  Gheraint  Faidd  glas 
a  ddosparthes  ugain  Llythyren  a  phedair.  fal  y  mae  yr  awr  honn 
aV  pedair  yn  adlawiaid — wedi  hynny  o  gymhwyllig  ymbwyli 
Beirdd  ac  Athrawon  o  Feirdd  Gadeiriogion  dygwyd  ar  fraint  ae 
arfer,  gan  wellhaû  y  goelbren.  ddeunaw  llythyren  ar  ar  hugain. 
arwỳdd,  eisioes  nid  oes  ar  ddn  a  gwyn  amgen  na>  pedair  awgiym 
ar  hugain. 


YSTGRRYNAU. 


YsTORRTNAü  y  gelwid  y  llythrennau  ym  mhrif  amaeroedd 
Genedl  y  Gymry ;  a  gwedi  amser  Beli  ap  Manogan  j  gelwid  yn 
llythrennau  a  chyn  o  hynny  nid  oedd  amgen  o  lythyr  naV  dag 
ystorryn  cyssefin.  a  chyfrinach  y  buant  er  yn  oes  oesoedd,  gao 
Feirdd  Ynys  Prydain  yn  cadw  Gof  Gwlad  a  chenedl,  A  Bdi 
mawr  au  gwnaeth  yn  unarbymtheg.  a^r  drefn  honno  amynt  efe  á*i 
datrines,  ac  a  wnaeth  nas  dylit  fyth  wedi  hynny  cyfrinach  ar 
wybodau  Llythyr,  herwydd  y  drefn  a  wnaeth  ef  amynt,  a  gadad 
y  deg  ystorryn  dan  gyfrin. 

Gwedi  dyfod  y  ffydd  yng  Nghrist  gwnaeth  deunaw.  a  gwedi  M 
hynny  ugain.  ag  ar  hynny  y  cadw  amynt,  hyd  yn  amser  Cenuni  «J 
Fardd  Glas.  ag  efe  a  ddodes  bedwar  ar  ugain  amynt. 

Ac  ar  hynny  buant  yn  hir  oesoedd.  hyd  yn  amser  y  Brenin.^ 
Harri  bummed,  ag  efe  a  waharddes  ysgolion  ir  Gymry,  a  llyfrinMm 
a  defnydd  llyfrau.  ag  achos  hynny  gorfu  ar  y  Cymry  gydymgym— 
gymeryd  a  choelbren  y  beirdd  a  thorri  a  duo  llythrennau  ar  wyddlM 
a  gwiail,  a  chymmeryd  Beirdd  iw  dy  bob  perchen  ty  a  theola  i^^ 
fynnai  wybodau  llythyr  a  darllain,  ac  o  hynny  trefnwyd  cym— 
morth  Tir  ac  ar  a  buarth  i'r  Beirdd,  ag  aeth  Beirdd  yn  niferog  yn^ 
Nghymry,  ag  ynfwy  gwybod  llythyr  nag  y  bu  cyn  y  gwalttidd» 
am  hynny  y  canodd  Llawdden  fardd, 


AMRYWIAETHAU.  205 

Ar  gam  gochel  gwel  a  gwilia  ergyd 

pob  argoU  ai  redfa, 

adammeg  y  byd  yma 

nid  drwg  a  ddwg  a  fo^n  dda. 

8ef  Ue  nas  caid  ysgol  namyn  Saesoneg  nag  athraw  namyn  Sais  y 
dysgaiV  Cymry  ea  hiaith  ai  gwybodau  yn  fwy  nag  erioed,  ag  a 
wnaethant  wellhad  ao  Amlhad.  ar  rhif  llythyr  ao  ystorryn.  oni 
ddaeth  pen  y  rhif  y  sydd  amytit  ynawr. 


Y  DEG  LLYTHYR  CYSSEFINION. 

Yn  amser  Owain  ap  Maxen  WIedig  ydd  enillwys  genedl  y 
Gymry  eu  braint  a^a  Coron,  cymmerasant  at  eu  mamiaith  gyssefin 
yn  lle''r  Lladin  ag  oedd  wedi  lied  enill  Ynys  Prydain,  ag  yn  y 
Gymraeg  y  cadwasant  gof  a  Ghyfarwydd  a  dosparthau  Gwlad  a 
chenedl  gan  ddwyn  ar  atgof  yr  hen  gymraeg  a^u  geiriau  a''u 
hymadroddion  Cynhwynolion,  eithr  achos  angof  ag  anneall  ar  hen 
lythyriaeth  y  deg  llythyr  cyssefinion.  hwy  fuant  ar  wall,  ac  fal 
hyn  y  daeth  anghydbwyll  ar  amrafaelion  heneiriau,  sef  dodi  dan 
lythyren  lie  nad  oedd  gofyn  amgen  nag  un,  fal  y  mae  Caan,  a 
Braan,  a  glaan,  yn  11  Can,  a  bran,  a  Glan  a  digerth  yn  lie  dierth, 
a  phlegid  yn  He  phlaid  a  llaweroedd  eraill.  hefyd  dod  T  yn  DD, 
ag  L  yn  He  E  ag  yn  He  Y.  ag  U,  yn  He  E.  ag  nid  achos  dangos 
J  cwbl,  eithr  hynn  er  cof  am  ai  gwelHiais  nid  amgen  no  Thalhaiam 
Fardd  o  Graerllion  ar  wysg,  dan  nawdd  y  Ford  gronn,  ag  ar  ei  ol 
«f  Taliesin  ben  beirdd,  a  wnaeth  drefn  ar  y  gymraeg  o  iawn  ddeaH 
ar  BwyH  a  Theilyngdawd  y  deg  llythyr  gyssefin,  aV  moddau  aV 
timfodau  amynt  aV  treiglaethau  teilyngion,  ac  o  hyn  y  cafwyd  yr 
lien  gymraeg  ar  adver  ag  adgael. 


PEITHYNEN. 

Y  piLLWYDD  a  fyddant  yn  ddau  hanerog  bob  Carfan  sef  fal  y 
grilir  eu  hagor  au  caead  i  gymmeryd  a  chyfrwymawV  Peithwydd 
neiiV  ebillion  dwy  garfan  y  sydd,  un  bob  pen  ymhob  caeogen,  ag 
ymhob  Caeogen  hefyd  y  bydd  gan  arfer  yn  fynychaf  bedwar  ar 
hngain  or  peithwydd,  cyd  y  gellir  amynt  y  rhif  a  fynner,  am 
hynny  deonaw  neu  again  a  welir  yn  fynych.  ag  nid  anfynnych 


206  AMRYWIAETHAU. 

deg  arhugaîn,  Ag  yn  y  peithynen  gynnifer  caeawg  ag  a  fynner, 
eithr  enhydwyth  y  bydd  mwy  na  thri  chaeogen  Bhai  a  wnant 
peithynen  o  un  caeogen  hir  fallau  ddeugain  nea  banner  cant  nea 
drigain  neu  fwy  o  beithwydd  a  He  bo  felly  nid  hydwyth  mwy  nag 
un  caeogen.  Dylit  y  peithwydd  bob  un  yn  bedwar  ochrawg,  a 
rhatbu'r  ymylau  sef  y  comelau  yn  ysgawn  sef  hyd  yn  Uawn 
ddyfnder  y  llythyrau  fal  nas  gweler  Uythyrau  un  ochr  yn  ym- 
ddangos  ar  ymyl  yr  ochr  arall,  ag  felly  am  bob  ochr.  lied  ochiaaV 
peithwydd  a  fydd  yn  ogymmaint  a  hyd  heiddyn  neu  wenithyn. 
ag  0  fod  yn  fwy  bydd  anhydwydd  y  beithynen.  a  throm,  ag  a 
ofyn  Uawer  o  ole  yn  ai  cario. 

Ehai  a  ddodent  y  peithwydd  yn  y  Uiw  glas  y  Uiwîr  gwlan  yn- 
ddo,  ag  yn  sefyll  hyd  nis  bo  glas  lliw  bob  un  o  honynt,  a  gadael 
iddynt  sychu,  yna  torri'r  llythyrau  .  a  hwy  a  fyddnt  wynnion  ag 
amlyccach  ar  y  coed  gleision  na  phetysaint  heb  liw,  a'r  llythyrau 
yn  ogyfliw  ar  pren :  eraill  a  ddodant  liw  du,  neu  wyrdd,  neu  goch, 
ni  mawr  waeth  pa  liw  a  fytho.  cyd  ydd  amgeno'*n  daer  ar  liw  pren 
y  llythyrau.  Goreu  o  bob  coed  eu  parhâd  Deri,  hawsaf  eu  gweithio 
cyll  neu  helig  neu  wem.  Bedwen  yn  bren  da.  felly  eirin  ag  yspydd- 
aden,  yr  hen  brydyddion  gynt  a  hoffynt  gerdinwydd.  Coed  efeill 
lie  au  gellir  yn  deg  nid  rhaid  gwell  am  barhad  a  gweithioldeb, 
Berwi  pillwydd  a  pheithwydd  mewn  Llyssy  sur  au  ceidw  rhag  biy- 
fed,  eu  twyrao"*n  fm'd  ag  iro  cwyr  gwenyn  ynddynt  au  LledkAi 
onid  elo'r  cwyr  iddynt  gan  wres.  au  ceidw  rhag  mall  a  phydii, 
bynnag  o  bren  a  fythawr 


COELBREN  Y  BEIRDD. 

Llyma  fal  y  dywed  Lywelyn  Sion. 

Wedi  Khyfel  Bargod  Owain  Glyn  Dwr,  gwaharddodd  y  Brenmj 
adael  i  bapur  a  phagod  gael  eu  dwyn  i  gymru  nag  ychwaith 
darllaw  yno,  fal  y  rhwystra  hynny  gyfeillach  Lly thyr  rhwng  Cymro«i3 
a  Chymro  a  rhwng  y  Cymry  a  chenedl  gorwlad  ag  AUdir,  a  hynn^c= 
er  dial  yr  ochri  at  Owain  a  welid  ym  mhob  mann  ymhob  dyn  yng^S 
Nghymry,  a  gwahardd  y  Beirdd  hefyd  ar  Prydyddion  î  gerdded^ 
ei  cylchoedd  ag  ymweled  ar  ofwy  aV  Teuluoedd   yn  ei  swyddao, 
yna  cofiwyd  a  daddyg\vyd  ar  arfer  henffordd  Beirdd  Ynys  Pryd-- 
ain  sef  torriV  Uythrenau  a  elwaint  awgrymmau  laith  a  Uafar  ar 
goed  neu  wydd  triniedig  i'r  achos,  a  elwid  Goelbren  y  Beirdd  ag 


AMRYWIAETHAÜ.  207 

bì  hjn  ai  gwnelid  cynnull  coed  cyll  neu  gerdin  yn  y  gaeaf  amcan 
hyd  cyfelin  a'u  hollti  bob  un  yn  bedryran  sef  yn  bedair  asseth  y 
prenn,  a^u  cadw  nis  baint  gan  gyffaith  amser  yn  sych  o  gwbl.  yna 
eu  canwyro'n  bedryfal  parth  lled  a  thrwch,  a  gwedi  hynny  can- 
wyro^r  comelau  hyd  led  deg  yn  y  fodfedd.  ag  gwneuthur  hynn  fal 
nas  Delo  tomadau^  llythrenau  sef  yr  awgrymmau  a  dorrer 
a  Chyllell  ar  un  oV  pedwar  wyneb  pedryfal  ar  ymsathr  yn  wel- 
edig  ar  wyneb  nesaf.  ag  fal  hynny  am  bob  un  or  pedwar  wyneb, 
yna  torri'^r  awgrymmau  herwydd  y  bont  ai  rhai  laith  a  Uafar  tafod, 
ai  rhai  rhif,  neu  arwyddion  celfyddyd  erail  megis  awgrymau  er- 
ddigan  Cerdd  Arwest  a  Cherdd  dant,  a  gwedi  torri  deg  oV  cyfryw 
sethau  ag  a  fo  gofyn  arnynt  parottoi  pedair  Asseth,  dau  a  dau  o 
henynt.  pill  au  gelwir  au  canwyro^n  deg  a^u  gosod  dau  ar  unwaith 
yng  ochr  ag  och  ag  ar  draws  y  cysswUt  nodi  deg  Ue  twU ;  ar  ol 
hynny,  torriV  tyllau  sef  banner  pob  un  or  deg  twll  ar  un  or 
essyth,  ar  un  peth  ar  y  Uall,  gwneuthur  felly  a'r  ddwy  asseth 
eraill,  yrhain  a  elwir  y  pillwydd  yna  trin  yr  essyth  awgrymedig- 
ion  neu  lythyredigion  a  mwnwgl  ar  bob  un  o  ddeupen  yr  asseth 
yn  grwnn  ei  amgylch  lied  bys  ar  hy(|wedd  yr  Asseth.  yna  gosod 
J  coed  llythyredigion  gerfydd  eu  mynyglau  ar  un  oV  pillwydd  y 
benn  a  felly  ar  y  pen  aralL,  ag  ar  hynny  benn  ag  arall  y  pillwydd 
twll  am  dwll  ag  ar  bob  pen  i  bob  dwy  billwydden  mynyglau  yn 
leoedd  llinynon  iddeu  clymu  yn  gadarn  ynghyd,  ar  bob  pen  i'r 
gwydd  awgrymedigion.  a  gwediV  clymuV  cwbl  fal  hynn  ynghyd 
yn  gyrfinedig  gelwir  y  Uyfr  a  wneler  yn  hyn  o  fodd  Peithynen, 
am  ei  fod  wedi  ei  ymbyitliynu  ynghyd  y  pillwydd  ar  bob  pen  yn 
dal  y  cwbl  ynghyd,  ar  ebillion  sef  yr  Essyth  llythyredigion  yn 
troi  yn  pillwydd  yn  rwyddesmwyth,  ac  felly  yn  hawdd  ei  darllain. 
sef  y  darllenir  un  wyneb  o'r  ebill  yn  y  lie  cyntaf  herwydd  rhifnod 
ei  wyneb  yna  troi  gyda'r  haul  a  darllain  yr  ail  wyneb  a  throi  felly 
am  bob  wyneb  arall,  ag  yn  unwell  o  ebill  i  ebill  hyd  nas  darfydder 
darllain,  nod  rhif  o  un  i  ddeg  ar  wyneb  yr  clo  pob  un  oV  ebillion  a 
wyneb  y  nod  rhif  yw'r  cyntaf  iddei  ddarllain,  aV  rhai  yn  nhrefn 
eu  tro  gyda'r  haul. 

Deugain  ochr  ebill  ym  mhob  peithinen,  ar  ol  hynny  peithyn 
arall  hyd  ddiwedd  y  gerdd  neu'r  Araith  a  lie  bo  gofyn  mwy  na 
deg  ebill  A  llai  nag  ugain,  cynnifer  ebill  ag  y  bo  gofyn,  yn  un 
peithynen  gyfunbarth  yn  gyfyngorf. — Achos  rhoi  deg  yn  arbennig- 
rif  yn  gydgyrfin  y^v  am  mai  deg  y  w  bann  adran  rhif,  a  than  rhif  de- 
gan  y  dosperthir  pob  rhifoedd  hyd  nas  gall  laith  rhoi  enwau  arnynt, 
Deg  yw  cylch  cyfiawn  a  deg  o  fewn  deg,  neu  ddeg  am  ddeg  a  fydd 


208 


AMftYWiAETHAU, 


tufewa  a  tliufaea  iV  cylchyudoil  oylcli  ynghylch  hjd  fyth  byth- 
oedd.  am  Iijnny  gorati  Do&piirtli  ar  rliif  a  rhifoedd  jw  deg  a  deg- 
an.  ag  nia  gellir  ar  anigeo  o  drofn  giulw  rlùfoôdd  yn  ddosparlbaa 
mewo  lleoedd  cedyru  modd  y  gellir  eu  darllain  au  deall,  an  datgati 
yngyfun  gydgyfun.  Gwodi  dwyu  ar  atgof  ag  adfer  am  iK^h^s  a 
ddangoswyd  ben  brif  gelfyddyd  y  CjTiiry  ar  lythyr  ag  awgrj^m 
ymrbodded  dan  farn  a  cbanfod  Oadeirau  a  Gorseddau  Cerdd  dafod 
Debeuliartb,  a  Morgan  wg,  ag  Eisteddlodan,  Gwynedd  a  Pliowyi, 
i  chwilio  i  niaes  a  gídlöd  ar  wybodau  awgrym  Coelbren  y  Bcird  a> 
gwellbau  ar  belaethu  a  fn  ar  rLyw  a  rhif  yr  Awgryoiau  at*  yua 
Cadarnbau  uu  awgrym  aV  bymtbeg  yn  rai  Cyffrcdin  o>  dechreu- 
ad,  a  cliwanegiadan  a  fa  at  hynny  o  rif  o  bryd  i  gilydd  byd  yn 
atuâer  y  Bardd  Glaa  lie  aî  cadanihaed  yn  un  ar  bug  obrif  awgrym- 
au  berwydd  llafaiyddiaetb  y  Gymraeg,  gwedi  hynny  dodi  pedwar 
ar  bugain  ar  rif  y  C'yfiVediniaid,  ag  ni  ddoded  mwy  iia  bynny  ar 
addyag  a  gwybodan  Tenluaidd,  eitbr  y  Beirdd  a  gawnaut  ar  eu 
Coclbren  Cyfrin  ddeniiaw  a'r  bugain  o  ben  gadw  a  Cbof  Cyfrin^  a'u 
dwyn  ar  arfer  ag  adwaitb*  ag  nis  deallwyd  y  dylit  Cyfrinacb  dam- 
dwng  ar  anigen  na  deg  o  honynt  a  olwaînt  y  deg  cyasefiuiaid  au 
dodi  dan  luniau  gyfrinacb  Ddamdwng,  a  gadael  y  cwbl  oV  deunaw 
a'r  again  yn  gyfrinacb  beb  arnynt  adduued  a  damdv^ng  ag  o 
hynny  yr  aeth  yn  gyflrí?din  fal  y  maent  yn  awn 

Wedi  atlgael  gwybodaeth  ar  y  C(^eUireiim  eef  an  y  Beirdd  ag 
tin  y  meneicb  my nai  bawb  agog  gwryw  a  benyw  eu  dysgu  an 
gwni?uthur  ag  o  bynny  niyncd  yn  waith  crefft  gan  wegryddiou  a 
BaẅgedyddÌon  ag  ernynt  y  torrid  cof  am  bob  peth  a  ofynai  g<?f  cad- 
wedig  ll^'tbyr  a  Hyfr,  ag  fel  hynny  y  bu  byd  aniscr  Harri  y 
Seitlifed  ag  ynteu  yii  Gymro,  cymmerodd  ei  genedl  dau  nawdd  ei 
gymm^vynasgarwcli,  ng  au  dododd  ar  ei  gost  ei  hun  dan  addyag 
myneich  a  pbapir  a  Chroeutrin  a  fynnit  am  ddim  a  ebael  yn  yr 
un  a  fyniiit  o'r  ddwy  laitb  nid  aingeu  y  Gjniira^g  ar  Saesoneg  a 
Uawer  a  ddysgaint  y  ddwy*  ag  o  hynny  cael  gwybodan  llytliyr  yn 
amlach  ym  mhlith  y  werin  yng  S^gbyniru  nag  ai  caed  yn  Lloegr 
ag  o  hynny  Prydyddion  mwy  na  digon,  ar  Abadaii  yn  oi  dodi,  U 
ag  aral],  yn  ysgolyddion,  ag  o  hynny  y  mae  bod  y  Prydyddiwn  yu 
ysgolyddion  athrawon  Teuluaidd  hyd  y  dydd  beddiw  yn  myned 
yn  ci  cylchoe<Id  doyparthcdig  o  dy  î  dy,  ag  o  deulu  i  deulu.  y 
mae'n  ami  dan  olwg  a  gweled  yr  hen  goelbrenni.  ond  yn  awr  nid.. 
ami  gwncutbnr  p^^jtbynen  eithr  ain  radd  yng  Nghadair,  neu  atiM 
dal  yn  arian  neu  yn  wertb  arian  gan  ai  gofynnal  wrth  at'hos  yr  xiim 
at  gofynai.  y  mao  Uawer  yn  fyw  y  dydd  heddyw  yn  cofio>  ym— 


AMRYWIAETHAU.  209 

aifer  a  Ghoelbren  y  beirdd.  a  llawer  Goelbren  a  welir  fyth  jn 
nhai  hen  djlwythau  Bonheddigion 

Y  sef  fal  hynn  y  mae'r  Cyfarwyddyd  herwydd  hen  gof  a  Llyth- 
yr,  a  Chof  Llafar  gorsedd,  Cadwedig  gan  Gadeiriau  er  y  dechreuad, 
nid  amgen 

Deg  nod  awgrym  Uafar  parth  laith  ag  ymadrodd  a  fa  gan  genedl 
y  Cymry  yn  oes  oesoedd  cyn  eu  dyfod  i  Ynys  Prydain,  a  chyf- 
rinach  dan  adduned  a  damdwng  oeddent  gan  y  Gwyddoniaid  sef 
oedcl  y  gwyr  hynn  Prydyddion  a  gwyr  wrth  gerdd  dafod  a  gwy- 
bodau  Doethineb  cyn  bod  Beirdd  Dosparthus,  ag  yn  amser  Pryd- 
ain ab  Aedd  Mawr  amcan  mil  a  banner  o  flynyddan  cyn  geni  Grist 
yngfanawd  oV  wenforwyn  fendigaid  Mair,  ag  yn  amser  aedd  Mawr 
7  trefnyd  Beirdd  Dosparthus  a  swydd  a  thrwydded  gwaranred 
iddynt,  a  chwedi  hynny  gwellhau  Goelbren  y  Gwyddoniaid  fal  y 
bydd  achawB  ei  de^  ai  darllain  hyd  nad  oedd  unawgrym  ar  bym- 
theg  yn  y  Gt)elbren  ag  yn  amser  Dyfhwal  Moelmud  amcan  chwe- 
dian  mlynedd  Gof  a  Chyfrif  cyn  dyfod  Ghrist  yng  nghnawd,  y 
dairmwyd  yr  nnawgrym  ar  bymtheg  ar  drefn  amynt  cadw  laith 
ag  ymadrodd  a  phob  Gof  Owlad  a  Ghenedl,  am  nas  gallesid  gystal 
ar  nn  arall  o  drefh  er  cynhal  Gof  a  gwybodau  doethineb,  a  brein- 
ian  a  Defodau  Genedl  y  Cymry  ai  pherthynasai  ar  deg  nod  Aw- 
grym cyssefin  hyd  y  dydd  heddyw  dan  gadw  Gyfrinach  adduned 
a  damdwng  ag  nid  neb  o  ddyn  namyn  y  damdynghedigion  an 
gwyr  wedi  myned  yr  unarbymtheg  yn  agored  pen  gwlad  ir  hoU 
genedl  gwellhau  ag  helaethuV  goelbren  ym  mhellach  a  wnaeth- 
pwyd  hyd  ddeunaw  yn  amser  Beli  mawr  ab  Manogan,  a  gwedi 
hynny  ngain,  ag  yn  amser  y  Bardd  glas  yn  un  ar  hugain  sef  cof 
arall  a  ddywed  ddywed  dau  ar  hugain,  a  hynny  y  sydd  o  lythyr- 
enau  Gyssefinion  yn  y  Gymraeg,  sef  adlawiaid  y  gelwir  y  maint 
a  sydd  dros  hynny  o  rif  hyd  ddeunaw  ar  hugain. 


DOSPARTH  MESURAU  CERDD  DAFOD  CERAINT  FARDD 

GLAS. 

Y  Ddospabth  hynaf  ar  gof  a  chadw  cyfarwyddyd  yw  un  Geraint 
Fardd  Glas  ar  y  mesurau  Gerdd  dafawd,  ag  ar  a  geffir  o  gerdd  cyn 
ei  Amser  ef  nid  oes  namyn  a  ddealler  gan  gelfydd  a^u  darlleno 
neu  ag  an  clywo.  Y  Geraint  hwnnw  brawd  oedd  i   Forgan  Hen 


210  AMRYWIAETHAU. 

Brenin  Morganwg,  ag  efe  a  gasgles  yr  hen  wjbodau  Cerdd  da&wd 
a  Barddas  ac  au  Dosparthes  mewn  Lljfr  oM  waith  ei  hunan,  ag  au 
dodes  wrth  Fam  Cadair  a  Gorsedd  ymhob  Owlad  a  Chyfoeth  yng 
Nghymru.  a  goreu  am  wybodau  a  Bam  y  cafwyd  Geraint  a  riioi 
Pob  Cadair  yng  Nghymru  a  Lloegr  iddaw  ef,  ac  o  Hynny  y  gd- 
wyd  ef  y  Bardd  Glas  oV  Oadair,  wedi  hynny  myned  yn  Fardd 
Teliaw  i  Aelfryd  Brenin  Lloegr,  He  bu  yn  dysgu  GTwybodau  i 
gymry  Lloegr  ag  ir  Saeson  ag  yng  Nghaer  wynt  y  mae^n  gor- 
wedd,  wrth  Ddosparth  Ceraint  ydd  elaint  bawb  oV  Beirdd  a'r 
gwŷr  wrth  Grerdd  dafod,  hyd  yn  Amser  Bhys  ap  Tewdwr  Brenin 
Dinefwr  yr  hwn  a  fuasai  ar  encil  o'i  wlad  a^i  gyfoeth  hyd  y  bu 
meibion  lestin  ap  Gwrgan  yn  goresgyn  Gyfoeth  Dinefwr  ac  Ya- 
trad  Ty wi,  sef  yn  Llydaw  y  bu  ac  yno  y  dysges  ef  wybodau  new- 
yddion  ar  fesurau  Cerdd  dafod  ag  au  dug  i  Gymri  gwedi  cael  gor- 
esgyn ar  ei  gyfoeth  ac  au  dodes  ar  addysg,  ac  a  wnaeth  Eisteddfod 
fawr  yn  Nghaerfyrddin  herwydd  dosparth  y  Ford  gron,  a  chynnal 
hyd  Fam  Cadair  ac  yna  rhoi'r  addysg  newydd  yn  Nawdd  Cadeir- 
iau  a  Oorseddau  Beirdd  ynys  Prydain  yng  Nghymru  a  Lloegr  ag 
Ystrad  Clwyd,  a  gwedi  hynny  Gruffudd  ap  Cynan  a'i  dug  i  Ya- 
trad  Conwy  yng  Ngwynedd  Ue  y  gwnaeth  ef  Eisteddfod  anryd- 
eddus  a  gwedi  hynny  Eisteddfod  arall  yng  Nglyn  Achled  yn  y 
werddon  ag  i  honno  y  Daith  Beirdd  a  Gwỳr  wrth  G^rdd  Dafawd 
o  Gymru,  a  Lloegr  ag  ysgotlont  a  Llychlyn  arY  werddon  Ue 
gwnaeth  dosparth  Freiniol  ar  fesurau  Cerdd  Dafawd  a'u  perthyn- 
asau,  a  chwedi  hynny  a  chaffael  ymwared  o'i  Garchar  yng  Nghaer- 
llion  G^wr  efe  a  drofnes  Eisteddfod  bob  Tair  blynedd  yn  ei  Lys 
yn  Aberffraw  mon  ag  o  Gadair  Aberffraw  y  cafas  Beirdd  a  gyrfr 
wrth  gerdd  dafod  gwynedd  ei  gwybodau  au  graddau  a^u  Breinian. 
ag  ef  efe  addodes  newyddion  ofoddion  a  defodau  yn  amgen  a  geffir 
ar  yr  hen  ddosparthau  Gwlad  Gymru  a  Gwlad  Lydaw,  ag  yn  lie 
Bord  Gron,  neuadd  y  Tywysog  yn  AberflTraw  a  Neuaddau  Pen- 
defigion  eraill,  gwel  ai  deallo  mai  o  ddosparth  Geraint  Fardd  GHis 
y  tynned  un  Llydaw,  a  llawor  o  un  Gruffudd  ap  Gynan  a  elwir 
Dosparth  Glym  Achled  a  Dosparth  Aberffraw,  dan  wellhâd  a 
mwyhad  ac  amlhad,  a  theccâd,  ac  am  hynny  y  galwes  Lewys  Mor- 
ganwg yn  ei  Lyfr  Cerdd  dafod,  Dosparth  Ceraint  yr  hen  ddosparth 
gysefin,  ac  a  ddywcd  mai  ddosparth  y  Ford  gronn  yw  un  Llydaw 
a  elwir  un  Caerfyrddin  yn  ol  y  bu  gan  y  Brenhin  Arthur  yng 
Nghaenllion  ar  wysg,  ag  fal  y  mae  yn  awr  ynghadair  Tir  larlL 
ag  nid  oes  nemmor  o  beth  a  dal  ami  namyn  gwybod  a  gweled  a 
fu  gynt  ar  Gerdd  dafawd. 


AMRYWIAETHAU.  211 


CADAm  Xm  lARLL. 

Gadaib  Tir  larll  a  ddechreuwyd  gan  Forgan  Arlwjdd  o  Aber- 
aTan.  yn  lie  nn  Arthur  yng  Nghaerilion  ar  wysg.  Owedi  hynny  y 
dodes  larll  y  Clare  diweddaf  namyn  un  fraint  Ereidr  iddi  ym 
MettwB  Llangynwyd,  a  Llangynwyd  a  braint  hafotta  chwech  mis 
haf  o  ddydd  Galan  mai  hyd  galan  gaeaf,  ag  yna  symud  y  Gadair 
o^i  hanaawdd  yn  Llanfihangel  Afan  I  Dir  larll,  lie  ai  caid  bob  yn 
ail  yn  Eglwys  y  Bettws  ag  un  Llangynwyd,  ag  o  hynny  ei  galw 
Gbdair  Tir  larll.  a  llawer  o  Brydyddion  a  Chymreigyddion  gor- 
ehestolion  a  fuant  ym  mraint  y  gadair  honn  lie  nis  gellid  hynny 
ar  neb  o  brydydd  neu  gymreigydd  nas  cawsai  y  naill  a^i  eni  neu 
ynteu  ei  ikccwyaeth  ym  mraint  y  Gadair  honn,  gan  ymgad- 
ttriaw  ynddi. 

Ajt  wyrdon  y  Bettws  fynychaf  y  cynheilid  Gadair  Tir  larll. 
brydiaa  eraill  ar  y  crug  diwlith  ar  donn  Baedan  morgeila. 


TREFNAÜ  A  DEFODAU  GADAIR  TIR  lARLL. 

Cadaib  Tir  larll  a  drefnwyd  yn  nawdd  Sir  Gilbert  Glar  Ty- 
wysawg  Morganwg,  ac  efe  a  ddadnewyddwys  eu  Braint  Vt  Beirdd 
a  Phrydyddion  Oymry  fal  ag  y  bu  yn  oesoedd  cyssefinion  er  cof 
ag  addysg  ar  wybodau  daionus  a  chelfyddydau  Ceudawd.  a  Uyma^r 
Breiniau  ar  defodau  trefnedigion 

Gadair  Tir  larll  a  gedwir  ym  mraint  Pendefigaeth  Morganwg, 
ar  bob  un  or  Gwyliau  Arbennigion  yn  warantedig  o  fraint  heb 
hawl  heb  arynaig  dan  osteg  a  rhybudd  undydd  a  blwyddyn  parth 
ag  at  y  trafod  a  gymmyger  ger  ei  bron,  ag  nid  rhydd  gair  yn  ei 
herbyn,  a  nawdd  Arglwydd  y  Bendefigaeth  i  bob  Bardd  a  phryd- 
ydd  a  elo  gan  drefh  a  defod  ger  ei  bronn  hyd  yny  gaffer  yn  wa- 
rantedig ar  naw  gwybodau  a  chefyddydau  Cerdd  dafawd  ai  pher- 
ihynasau,  gan  orddyfnaid  Beirdd  a  Phrydyddion  Cymry.  a  chyn- 
nal  yngolwg  a  chlyw  Gwlad  ag  Arglwydd  ag  yn  wyneb  haul  a 
Uygad  goleuni,  ag  yn  nawdd  Duw  ai  dangnef . 

Bardd  gwarantedig  o  wybodau  a  chelfyddyd  Cerdd  dafawd  ai 
pherthynasau  gan  fam  a  gradd  Gadair  gyfaenad  a  ddylai  gym- 
meryd  Mebinogion  attaw  ar  addysg  Lien  a  Uyfrau  a  gwybodau 
Cy&enad  Hen  feirdd  Genedl  y  Cymry  nid  amgen  na  thri  ar  un- 

waith  herwydd  y  tair  gradd  a  ddylit  ar  febinogion  Cerdd  dafawd. 

2e 


-212  AMRYWIAETHAÜ. 

sef  hynny  un  ar  y  pryd  o  bob  un  o'r  Tair  Oradd  sef  y  Cymmyg- 
eder  y  graddau  fal  hynn. 

1.  Mebinog  Yspyddaid  yw  un  nas  gwypo  celfyddyd  cerdd  da{- 
awd  sef  gwr  ar  addysg  y  bydd  yny  wypo'r  laith  Glymraeg  her- 
wydd  ei  ansawdd  ai  bonedd  a  phwyll  ei  geiriau  ai  hymadroddion 
ai  deall  ai  darllain  ai  Uythyni  ai  sylliadu  yn  gyfiawn  ag  yn  gywûr. 
hefyd  efe  a  ddylai  wybod  Prif  Fannau  mesuraa  cerdd  daCftwd,  nid 
amgen  na^  cyhydeddau  ar  odlau  ar  cymmeríadaa  aV  Cor&niiaa 
ar  cynghaneddau  herwydd  gorddyfnaid  Gadair  a  GK>rsedd,  au  eym- 
mygedu,  au  dosparthu  yn  gyfiawn  llwrw  enw  a  rhiw  a  rhin.  an 
dangos  yn  warantedig  ou  waith  eu  hunan — gwedi  au  dangoao  efe 
liwynt  iddei  Athraw  a  chyífael  ei  air  trosto  ger  bron  cadair  y  gellir 
gwr  wrth  Gerdd  dafawd  a  hynny  ar  ei  gydwybod.  neu  o  ddifyg 
gerfod  yr  Athraw  cynnwysiad  yn  ysgrifenedig  y  dan  ei  law  ef  y 
gellir  SLT  Ai  bawl  ar  Air  a  Gbydwybod  gwr  wrth  Gerdd  da&wd 
ai  chelfyddau  ai  gwybodau  ai  pherthynasau,  yn  nawdd  addyi^ 
ag  Atbraw. 

2.  Mebinog  Gorddyfnaid  a  fydd  a  wypo  a  ddodod  ar  yspyddaid, 
a  chynn  archafael  a  ddysgo  ac  a  fettro,  pob  ansawdd  a  chelfyddyd 
ar  fann  a  phennill  addwyn  Tr  gymraeg,  au  dangaws  oi  waith  ei 
hun  yn  warantedig  o  air  a  chydwybod  Atbraw,  ag  y  dylit  gwr 
wrth  gerdd  dafawd  ai  pherthynasau  o  hano,  Hefyd  efe  a  ddylai 
wybod  pob  dosparth  ar  y  gymraeg  ag  ar  gelfyddyd  Cerdd  dafawd, 
ag  ar  freiniau  a  defodau  Deddfolion  Beirdd  a  phrydyddion  aa  ca- 
deiriau  au  Trefnau  Gorddyfnaid,  agwybod  Trefn  a  dosparth  a 
Chelfyddyd  ar  Bol  achau  a  Bonedd  Cenedl  y  Cymry.  an  Breiniaa 
au  Defodau  gwarantedig  o  gof  a  chadw,  a  cheudawd  a  Ghadair.  a 
braint  iddaw  air  a  chybwybod  ei  Athraw.  a  Ue  nas  galler  o  benn 
gynnwys  ysgrifen  ydan  ei  law  yn  warantedig,  a  rhodd  cenhedlad  y 
gelwir  yr  ysgrifen  honno. 

Mebinog  Braint  y  gelwir  a  wypo''r  holl  ddosparthau,  a  gwy- 
bodau a  Chelfyddydau.  Cerdd  dafawd  ai  pherthynasau,  yn  gywiir 
a  Chadam.  herwydd  Trefnau  a  Bam  Cadair,  ag  nid  mwy  wrth  air 
a  Chydwybod  Athraw.  sof  y  saif  ym  Mraint  ei  wybodau  ai  Aweii 
ei  hunan.  a  bwrw  ei  bawl  ai  fraint  ar  fam  Cadair  a  gorsedd  a  Ue 
nas  bytho  Bhaith  gwlad  dan  osteg  a  rhybudd  undydd  a  blwyddyn 
yn  Ofunedawl.  a  braint  iddo  gynnadl  amryson  Gerdd  dafawd,  a 
gwedi  ydd  enillo  dair  Cadair  Braint  a  Gwaranred  pencerdd  iddaw. 
sef  hynny  Bardd  Cadeiriaw.  Ag  Athraw  Cadeiriaw  ai  gelwir  a 
rhydd  iddaw  ei  fcbinogion  nid  amgen  nog  un  ar  unwaith  llwrw  pob 
un  o>  Tair  Gradd. 


AMRYWIAETIIAU.  213 

Gadair  gyfaenad  y  gelwir  Gadair  a  Gorsedd  a  gedwir  yn  warant- 
edig  o  brif  orddyfnaid,  ym  Mam  Gwlad  a  Chenedl.  Gyfaenad  pob 
daiar  egored  o  haul  ar  wybren,  sef  Tyno  Gerddai  gelwir ;  ar  lessin 
vyneb  daiar,  a  gosod  Gadeiriau  nid  amgen  no  meini  a  He  nis  gellir 
meini  Tyweirch,  ar  gadair  gyfaenad  a  fydd  ynghanol  yr  Orsedd. 

Gyfaenad  hefyd  pob  Gyrch  golychwyd  sef  pob  Llan  ar  Eglwys. 
hefyd  pob  Llys  G^Iad  ag  Arglwydd  nid  amgen  no  llysoedd  Barn 
a  Ôìy&aith,  a  Ghyfaenad  hefyd  pob  mann  a  lie,  ai  agored  ar  am- 
ber a  daiar  arlessin  y  bo.  ai  neuadd  Tŷedig  y  bo.  a  chadam 
braint  ar  ryw  neuadd  a  honno  gwedi  ai  doder  gerbron  gwlad  a 
chenedl  yngolwg  a  chlyw  dan  osteg  a  Rhybydd  un  dydd  a  blwy- 
ddyn  hyd  ymhen  y  Tair  Blynedd  yn  waranted  o  glyw  a  golwg 
gwlad  a  Ghenedl  yn  Llys  ag  yn  Llann.  ag  ymhob  Tyrfa  gyfreith- 
iawl  a  dosparthus  mal  y  bydd  Ffair  a  Marchnad 

Ymhob  Gadair  Gyfaenad  dylit  datgan  Dysgogan  Beirdd  Ynys 
Prydain  sef  hynny  y  cof  ar  cadw  ar  wybodau  a  Ghelfyddydau,  a 
Dosparthao,  a  Threfhau,  a  Breiniau,  a  Defodau  Beirdd  Ynys 
Prydain,  dylit  hefyd  datgan  Gofanon  Darampryd  Mabon  ap  Med- 
ron,  sef  enwau  a  chof  am  Feirdd  a  Phrydyddion  a  Sywedyddion 
a  Doethion  Ynys  Prydain  o  G^nedl  a  Bonedd  y  Gymry.  ag  am 
a  fa  campus  a  molianus  arnynt  a  pharth  ag  attynt.  ag  am  Fren- 
hinoedd  Ynys  Prydain  au  gweithredoedd  anrhydeddus  ag  amcan 
ar  yr  amseroedd  y  buant,  au  hachau  au  Bonedd. 

Sef  ar  Feirdd  a  Phrydyddion  ynghadair  a  gorsedd  nis  dylit  na 
hawl  nag  arynaig,  eithr  eu  gadael  au  cadarnhau  yn  nawdd  Gwlad 
a  Chenedl.  ag  yn  nawdd  Duw  ai  dangnef,  a  lioll  nerth  a  phwyll  a 
darbodau  awdurdodawl  gwlad  ac  Arglwydd. 

Ghredi  datgan  y  dysgoganau  ar  Gofanon,  galw  am  ddangos,  ag 
yno  Bardd  a  fo  gantho  a  chwennycho  ei  ddangos  ai  dengys  i'r 
gadair  ai  Gerdd  dafawd,  ai  Bhol  achau.  a  cof  cadw  ar  foliannus  o 
gamp  agweithred.  ai  Bwrw  wellhad  g>vybodau  a  Ghelfyddydau  mol- 
iannns  y  bo.  gwediV  dangosau,  gwrandaw  hawl  a  Braint  gan  ai 
dycco  ger  bronn.  a  gwedi  hynny  Daphar  Gynnadlau  ag  amrysonau 
Cäidair  a  Gherdd  Dafawd  ai  pherthynasau,  a  gwedi  au  darfier, 
myned  gan  gyngor  a  Rhin  a  Bam  ar  a  gaffed  ger  bron  y  Gadair 
aV  orsedd,  yna  datgan  y  Gadair  sef  hynny  datgan  Pwyll  a  Barn, 
a  rhoddion  cenhedlad.  ynaV  golychwyd  a  gwedi  hynny'r  wledd  ar 
anrhydedd  a  phawb  iddei  Gartrefi,  pob  un  iddei  fann. 


214  AMRYWIAETHAU. 


DOSPARTHAU  CERDD  DAFOD. 

Yn  Amser  Morgan  Hen  Tywysog  Morganwg^  ai  frawd  Genint 
a  elwid  Geraint  Fardd  Glas  a'r  Bardd  Olas  oV  Gkidiar  yn  Faidd 
o  Bencerdd  ag  Athraw  Gadeiriog,  Gwnaethpwyd  Trefh  a  Dospartli 
herwydd  a  fu  gynt  gan  yr  hen  Gymry  ar  G«rdd  Dafod  ai  phe^ 
thynasai  ag  ar  Freiniau  a  Defodau  Gadw  ar  wybodau  daionos « 
chof  am  bethau  moliannus.  a  dwyn  ar  atgof  ag  adwedd  ag  adwaith 
yr  Hen  oreuon  ar  Ddefodau  a  Breiniau  Gwyr  wrih  G^rdd  dafod  a 
G^bodau  anhepcorion  i  wlad  a  Ghenedl  ddosparthna  ag  addwyn- 
bwyll,  er  amser  Prydain  ap  Aedd  Mawr,  er  dwyn  ar  atgof  an  had- 
gadamhau  dann  fam  a  phwyll  a  Bhaith  dygynnull  Doethion  a 
nawdd  gwlad  ag  Arglwydd.  A  Nawdd  Deddfa  Defod  nad  elai  neb 
yn  Brydydd  o  Fardd  end  ym  mam  y  dosparthau  a  wnaod  gan  y 
Morgan  hwnnw  wrth  bwyll  a  chyngor  Geraint  ei  frawd  a  bam  a 
bodd  a  gorchymyn  dygynnnll  Gwlad  ag  Arlwydd  gan  fstm  doethion 
a  Dysgedigion  ag  yna  trefnu  gorseddau  a  Ghadeiriau  herwydd  yr 
Hen  Ddefodau,  ag  Eisteddfodau  yn  Llys  y  Tywysog  nnwaith  yn 
y  Tair  blynedd,  a  nawdd  nad  elai  neb  yn  wr  wrth  G^rdd  Dafod 
ond  yn  nawdd  a  Braint  yr  orsedd  Gadair,  neu  ynteuV  Eisteddfod 
unwaith  yn  y  Tair  blynedd  yn  llys  y  Tywysog ;  ag  yn  Nawdd 
dysgedyddiaeth  Pencerdd  a  Athraw  Gadeiriog  gwaranredig  o 
Gadair  a  swydd  mal  y  bo  amo  a  wedd  iddo  yn  wybodau  dyledos 
a  gofynadwy  ar  wrth  Gerdd  Dafod,  ag  yn  amgen  na  hynn  nawdd 
nad  elo  neb  yn  wr  wrth  gerdd  dafawd,  ys  ef  honn  hen  drefii  a 
dosparth  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain. 

Ag  yn  yr  Orsedd  honno  gwnaethpwyd  Trefn  a  gwellhftd 
gynghanedd  sef  cyn  no  hynny  nid  oedd  cynghanedd  gydsain  eithn^ 
o  ddamwain,  eithr  cynghanedd  unodl  yn  unig  sef  gair  ynghanol  J^^ 
banner  olaf  or  bann  yn  unodl  a  gair  gyferbyn  ag  ef  yn  yngbi^^ 
nol  yr  banner  cyntaf  fal  y  dodoi   Daliesin  Ben  Beirdd  ar  ^t^ 
gerdd  dafod. 

A  gwedi  hynny  gwellhau  ar  wellhauV  gynghanedd  o  amsei 
amser  ag  o  Gadair  i  Gadair  onid  aeth  y  gynghanedd  gymraeg 
benn  ar  hoU  gynghaneddaiV  byd  ba  bynnag  o  laith 

Agwedi  trefnu  fal  hynn  yn  gadam  hyd  nad  hyd  y  dydd  heddji^nr 
y  mae  trefnau  a  Dosparthau  a  ddodes  ef  yn  addunedig  ag  addumn- 
dwy  He  a  modd  nis  gellir  yn  eu  herbyn.  Aeth  Geraint  Fardd  QTm9 
ys  ef  y  Bardd  Glas  o'r  Gadair  at  y  Brenin  AlfTryd  yn  Llundaio 
yn  Fardd  Teliaw  iddaw,  a  llawer  Gymro  wrth  Gerdd  Dafod  »g 


AMRYWIAETHAU.  215 

WTih,  QerdA  dant  a  aethant  gydag  ef  i  Loegr  Lie  dodes  Alfryd  j 
gwyr  hynny  wrth  gerdd  Dafawd  yn  gadeirogion  y  lie  ddoedd 
Cjmrj  yn  Gwladychu  yn  Lloegr  ag  o  hynny  Gwellhad  ar  ddysg 
a  gwybod  ym  mhlith  y  Saeson. 

Gwedi  hynny  Bleddyn  ap  Cynffyn  ai  frawd  Rhiwallon  ap  Cyn- 
fyn  wedi  cael  goresgyn  ar  Wynedd  a  Phowys  a  wnaeth  wledd 
anrhydedddos  yn  Nant  gonwy  dan  osteg  a  rhybydd  undydd  a 
blwyddyn  ag  yno  gwahawdd  gwyr  wrth  gerdd  Dafod  a  Thant  He 
gwnaethpwyd  Drefn  a  a  Dosparth  a  Braint  iddynt  yn  amser  y 
dog  William  y  Bastardd  Gt)ron  Loegr  oddiar  y  Saeson,  ag  yn  y 
wledd  honno  y  doded  y  gwyr  wrth  Gerdd  dant  dangessail  ag  yn 
Nawdd  Beirdd  o  bencerddiad  a  gwyr  eraill  o  brydyddion  a  Gwyr 
wrth  G^rdd  Dafod  ag  yn  y  wledd  honno  gwnaethpwyd  Trefn  a 
Dosparth  Wahanred  ar  Achau  Bonedd  a  threfnu  arwyddfeirdd  He 
nid  oeddent  cyn  o  hynny  ym  mraint  swydd  wrth  Farn  a  threfn 
Qwlad  a  Ghenedl  yng  Nghymru,  a  dodi  trefn  ar  gelfyddyd  Pais 
Ar&u  ai  pherthynasau. 

Gwedi  hynny  yr  Arlwydd  Bhys  ab  Tewdwr  Tywysog  Dinefwr 
a  Dyfed  a  Cheredigion  wedi  bod  amser  wrth  ei  achos  yn  Llydaw 
a  ddaeih  ynol  i  Gymry  ag  a  ddug  gydag  ef  Drefn  y  Ford  gronn  i 
Oymra  lle'*roedd  wedi  myned  ar  goll  ag  angof  a  chyfarwyddyd  ami 
parih  Prydyddion  a  gwyr  wrth  Gerdd  Dafawd  fal  y  bu  ynghaer- 
Uion  ar  wysg  gan  yr  Amherawdr  Arthur,  amser  unbennaeth 
Cenedl  y  Cymry  ar  Ynys  Prydain  ai  rhagynysoedd.  ag  yna  ei 
dodi  yn  Nawdd  Eglwys  Cattwg  yng  Nglyn  Nedd  ym  Morganwg, 
ys  sef  ydoedd  er  amser  ^fìilû  Sant  Braint  amgadamededig  i  Blwyf 
ag  Eglwys  nis  gellid  dwyn  cyrch  rhyfel  ag  arfau  Uadd  i  blwyf 
Cattwg,  gan  na  gwlad  na  gorwlad  ba  bynnag  a  hynn  dan  rwym  a 
Uaw  cyfachred  ar  hoU  wledydd  Ynys  Prydain. 

Ag  yna  wedi  dodiV  Ddosparth  yn  nawdd  yr  Eglwys  Cynnal 
Eistedfod  anrhydeddus  dan  osteg  undydd  a  blwyddyn  a  gwawdd 
dan  nawdd  gwlad  a  gorwlad  hoU  wyr  wrth  gerdd  dafod  yn  neuadd 
yr  Eglwys  yno  He  trefnwyd  herwydd  Dosparth  Rial  y  Ford  Gronn, 
a  graddu  Pencerddiaid  a  dodi  rhoddion  a  Chyfarwysau  iddynt  fal  y 
y  bu  yn  amseroedd  yr  Amherawdr  Arthur,  a  gwedi  bod  deugain- 
nydd  yno  fal  ymadael  bawb  ar  adwedd  iddei  cartrefi.  ag  lestin  ab 
Ghngan  Tywysog  Morganwg  a  ddug  Rhôl  y  Ford  Gronn  gydag 
iddei  Gastell  nowydd  yng  Nghaer  Dydd  dan  hawl  mai  efe  oedd 
Tywysog  y  Cyfoeth  ys  ef  Eglwys  a  phlwy f  Cattwg  yn  ei  gyfoeth  ef, 
ag  y  dylai  bod  cadwedigaeth  y  Rôl,  ag  am  fod  Caerllion  ar  wysg 
ai  Llys  a  honno  Llys  Arthur  Amherawdr  yn  ei  gyfoeth  haemi 


216  AMRYWIAETHAU. 

mai  cadwedîgaeth  Llys  Arthur  Ymherawdr  oedd  eî  Lys  ef,  ag  yna 
dwyn  Bol  y  Ford  Oronn  dan  lathlud  o  drais  a  gormes  i  Gastell 
Caer  Dydd  a  bu  gwaîth  iddaw  hynny  cann  ys  ddwyn  cyrch  Bhy- 
fel  ar  lostin  ab  Gwrgan  a  wnai  Bys  a  chael  y  goreu  amaw  yng 
ngwaith  y  cadlas  yna  danfoDes  Icstyn  ab  Gwrgan  at  Bobert  ab 
Ammwn  a>  Ffrancod  am  gyfnerth  yn  erbyn  Rhys  ai  ladd  ef  yng 
ngwaith  y  Cynllwyn  du.  eithr  y  dîeithraid  wedi  cael  clyw  a  deall 
ar  a  wnelsai  lostyn  yn  drais  a  difrawd,  dwyn  e^i  gastell  a*î  gyfoeth 
oddiarno  a  gymi  Ffo  arno. 

A  gwedi  hynny  Robert  larll  Oaerloyw  mab  i'r  Brenin  Hani  ap 
Gwilym  goch  a  briodes  a  Mabli  Merch  Robert  ab  Amwn,  a  chael 
cyfoeth  Morganwg  ym  mraînt  eî  wraig,  efe  a  roddes  cyfarwysau 
Vt  Beirdd  yn  Nhir  larll  ag  mewn  neuadd  iddo  yno  fe  ddodes  Bol 
y  Ford  Gronn  dan  gadwedigaeth  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydaîn  ag  o 
hynny  myned  yn  un  y  ddwy  drefn  nid  amgen  un  y  meini  gwyn- 
nîon  ag  un  y  Ford  Gronn  fal  y  mae  yn  awr  yno.  sef  gann  Feirdd 
Cadair  Tir  larll  yn  anad  neb  o  brydyddion  Cymry  y  mae^r  ddwy 
ddssparth  gorddawd  yn  gadwedig  yn  eu  cyfiawnder,  hyd  yr  awr 
honn.  gwedi  hynny  yr  Arglwydd  Gniffudd  ap  Rhys  ap  Towdwr  a 
ddarpares  wledd  y^  Ystrad  Tywy  ag  yng  Nghastell  Aberteifi  yng 
Ngheredigion  lie  trefnwyd  yn  ddosparthus  ag  yn  anrhydeddus  ar 
wyr  wrth  Gerdd  Dafod  a  Thant  gan  roddion  anrhydeddns  iddynt 
aur  ac  yn  arian,  a  gwisgoedd  a  meirch  ag  eraill  o  dlysau  anrhyd- 
eddus.  Oed  Crist  1100.  a  Gruff  ab  Cynan  yn  y  Werddon  gydaM 
gereint  yno  cynnal  Eisteddfod  gwyr  wrth  gordd  dannau  a  cherdd 
fegin,  a  dychwelyd  gydag  ef  i  Gymry  a  phencerddiaid,  cerdd  dant 
a  gwell  gwybodau  Cerdd  Dant  nag  a  fu  cyn  o  hynny  ym  Môn  a 
Gwynedd  ar  Eisteddfod  honno  yn  y  Werddon  a  elwir  Eisteddfod 
Glynn  achlach  a  goreuon  y  gwledydd  am  gerdd  dannau  yr  amser- 
oedd  hynny  y  Gwyddelod. 

A  gwedi  darfod  am  y  Tywysogion  y  Boneddigion  a  hanoeddynt 
0  waed  y  Ty  wysog  a  gymmerasant  attynt  y  gwyr  wrth  gerdd  dafod 
a  thant  yn  ei  nawdd  ag  yng  ngynnal  mal  y  gellid  cynnal  y  laith 
Gymraig.  a'i  chadw  rhag  coll  a  gwaethygiad,  a  chynnal  Cof  a  Ghadw 
ar  y  Farddoniaeth  Cymraeg  a'r  gelfyddyd  wrth  gerdd  Dafod  û 
pherthynasau,  a  chof  a  chadw  ar  Freiniau  a  Defodau  Cenedl  y 
Cymry  a  rhai  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain,  a  Bonedd  ac  Anfonedd  a 
chof  a  mawl  pob  molianus  o  ddyn  ag  o  gamp  ag  o  weithred,  a  chyn- 
nal cyfiawu  a  Doeth  ar  arfer  a  moes  a  syberwyd,  ag  er  Ddeddf  a 
Chynneddf  a  phob  pcth  a  wedd  ar  foneddig  o  ymddwyn  mewn 
gwlad  a  theulu  wrth  fodd  Duw  a  Dyu  ag  wrth  £âm  docth  achyd- 


AMRYWIAETHAÜ.  217 

wybodus  o  gyfiawn  wybodau,  wrth  gerdd  dafod  ar  bannau  Doeth- 
ineb  a  weddant  ar  wr  wrth  raid  cyfiawnder  a  gwiríonedd  a  Thang- 
nefedd  parth  ag  at  Owlad  a  chenedl,  ag  o  hyn  i  mae  nas  coUasom 
yn  gwbl  y  gwybodau  wrth  Gerdd  a  Barddoniaeth  aV  hen  gelfy- 
ddyd  wrth  Oterth.  ai  pherthynasau,  a  Breîniau  a  Defodau  Beirdd 
Ynys  Prydain,  ag  nas  syrthiodd  y  Cymraeg  i  Iwgr  a  llediaith,  fal 
y  darfu  i'r  laith  Saesoneg  gann  ddifyg  gwybodau  a  gynnaliaînt 
Gof  a  Ghadw  emi.  ys  ef  bywyd  laith  yw  gwybodau  Ar  gof  a  than 
gadw  ynddi.  a  bywyd  Gwybodau  yw  laith  y  Ue  a  moddion  cadw 
ynddi  parth  gair  ag  ymadrodd  cadarnbwyll  a  goleuliw  rhag  bam 
o  ddeall  cyfiawn. 


BREICHRWY  BARDD. 

Bbeichbwt  Bardd  a  wisgir  ar  yr  ysgwydd  islawV  cymmal  sef  y 
cnych,  ac  yng  Ngwynedd  Caw  ai  gelwid  yn  yr  hen  amseroedd 
feUy  hefyd  yn  Neheubarth,  a  mynych  ai  gelwid  felly  ym  Mor- 
ganwg,  am  hynny  y  gelwid  Bardd  wedi  y  cafiai  radd  Pencerdd  yn 
&rdd  Caw,  a  thri  Bardd  Caw  y  cyfrifid  y  Prifardd,  yr  Ofydd,  aV 
Derwydd&rdd,  neu  o  fodd  arall,  Prifardd  neu  fardd  Glas,  Ar- 
wyddfardd  neu  Wyn  fardd,  a  Bargadfardd  a  Chylfardd. — amrwy 
ac  aerwy  y  gelwid  Breichrwy  yn  nosparth  y  Ford  Gron,  a  gwedi 
hynny  o  amser  i  amser,  ag  o  ychydig  arfer  i  ddim  darymollyng- 
wyd  a^r  Brif  orwisg  gyfunlliw  ac  y  bamwyd  yr  orwy  yn  ogyni- 
iwyll,  ac  yn  arwyddo  yr  un  Coinmyged  a'r  orwisg  yn  gwbl.  ac  ni 
wisgir  orwisg  yn  awr  yn  gwbledig  eithr  He  ai  Ceffir  yn  rodd 
firaint  ag  anrydd  gan  Fronin  neu  Arlwydd  rhiol  Cyfoeth,  a 
-N^eithior  Pendefig  Llinolin  oV  hen  Brif  dywysogion 


AM  Y  CREIRIAU. 

Tri  chrair  Cyflfredin  y  sydd,  Gwisg,  Brysyll,  ac  Aenvy. 

Tri  chrair  braint  y  sydd  Cadair,  Bwyall,  a'*r  Bel  aur.  y  Bel  a 
•'^^engys  gyflawnder  a  chwbledigaeth  ar  awdurdod  yngorsedd.  y 
^-^■^iidair  a  ddengys  Barn  wrth  fraint.  y  Fwyall  a  ddengys  wellhfid 
*   mwyhad  ar  wybodau  a  chelfydd  yn  warantedig  o  fam 

Cadair  a  ddengys  awdurdawd  a  bam.  a  He  bynnag  cadair  ef  ai 
^H>rnir  ym  mraint  Beirdd  Ynys  Prydain.  cyd  na  bo  cof  ei  barnu 


218  AMRYWIAETHAÜ. 

ai  breiniaw,  hyd  na  bo  cof  gommedd  ag  jmwrihod  a  hi.  Beirdd 
Gwynedd  a  Phowys  a  gynhelynt  dan  gadair  yn  nawdd  y  Ty- 
wysawg. 

Deheubarth  cynnal  dan  Eisteddfod  a  dwyn  Gadair  a  bwyall,  a 
Ghadair  y  Crair. 

Bwyall,  arwydd  Oelfyddyd  yw  a  gwellMd  Oelfyddyd.  a  Beirdd 
Morganwg  ai  dwg  ym  mraint  Gadair.  ac  ar  y  fWyall  y  mae  braini, 
Bcf  cyfiawn  i  un  ai  dycco  yn  warantedig  o  fam  cadair  ddangos 
gwellhad  ar  wybodan  a  chelfyddyd  gerbron  Gadair  a  Oorsedd.  a 
blaen  iddaw  ar  hynny,  a  gwarant  ei  air  ef. 

Y  Bel  aur,  Beirdd  Gorseddawg  Ynys  Prydain  ai  dwg.  arwydd 
cwbledigaeth  ydyw.  a  hynny  a  wna  benn  ar  bob  arall  o  beth  mown 
dysg  a  chelfyddyd.  a  lie  dyccer  y  bel  braint  yw  dwyn  yr  hoU 
dlysau  eraill  ar  holl  greiriau. 

Brysyll  a  ddengys  braint  a  lie  ydd  eisteddir  ym  mam  ag  yn 
rhain,  nid  iawn  arwain  amgen  o  grair  na  brysyll.  can  nia  dylid 
awdurdod  lie  ydd  eler  wrth  raith  ag  ym  mam.  i  on  amgen  nag  i 
arall,  cans  ar  ortrech  y  Bâith  y  saif  Bam,  ac  nid  oes  a  wypo  nae 
a  wyr  ar  bwy  y  mae  namyn  ar  y  mwyaf  o  rif  y  saif,  ag  ni  wyddys 
o  bwy  yn  enwedig  y  mae  hynny  o  rif .  ag  nis  gellir  uwch  tin  luig 
arall  mewn  rhaith  ag  ym  mam  gan  raith,  a  gwedi  gwybod  bam 
rhaith,  iawn  yw  dodi'r  fam  honno  yn  adneu  a  fynner  o  ddyn  er 
swyddogi  ami  a  dewis  y  gwr  hwnnw  gan  raith,  ag  nid  ar  y  &m  y 
saif  hynny  o  raith  namyn  ar  y  gwr  a  wneler  yn  famwr. 

Pencerdd  Gadeiriawg  a  ddwg  aur  yn  ei  grair,  ac  ariant  i  bob 
pencerdd  arall.  Ariandlysog  a  elwir  Bardd  o  Bencerdd  ag  Aihraw, 
aurdlyssog  a  fo  Athraw  Gorseddog. 


CHWEDLEU. 

Ni  ddylai  fardd  son  am  bethau  anhygred  herwydd  Bam  Doeth- 
ion  ac  Athrawon  molianus  yn  ei  gerdd,  megys  ystonau  Arthur  ai 
Filwyr  a'r  Marchog  oV  llwyn  Glas,  ar  rhyw  bethau  a  hynny  nad 
ydynt  wirionedd  herwydd  Bam  doethion  a  galledigaeth  rhyw  i 
ansawdd.  can  nas  dylid  hynny  herwydd  gorddodau  Prif  feirdd 
Ynys  Prydain.  achaws  nis  gellir  lies  ag  nis  dylit  diddanwoh 
gelwydd,  ag  nis  gellir  Bardd  ond  o  Awen  o  Dduw,  ag  nis  gellii 
Gelwydd  o  Awen  o  Dduw.  ac  o  cheir  y  cyfryw  chwedleu  mewn  < 
yn  y  byd  a  gant  yr  hen  feirdd,  deaUer  nad  oes  yn  hynny  ; 
na  dammegaeth  ar  ryw  neu  ei  gilydd  o  wirionedd  galledig,  a  rhyd*^^ 


AMRYWIAETHAÜ.  219 

yw  canu  dammeg.  ac  annoethion  a  gamddeallant  ddammeg  ac  ai 
gwnant  yn  gelwydd  oi  bamu  yn  wir  o  ryw  pendant,  lie  nid  yw 
eithr  gwir  o  gyffelyb  ystyr,  Ystoriau  dammegawl  a  ddychymyg- 
-wyd  yn  yr  hen  amseroedd  er  dysgu  doethineb.  eithr  annoethion  a 
gamcb-oasant  yr  ystyr  onid  aeth  yn  anneallas  o  beth.  ag  o  hynny 
yn  gelwydd  amlwg.  a  llanw  eu  llyfrau  a  chelwyddau  anferthion, 
ag  nid  rhydd  i  fardd  ymyrryd  aV  cyfryw  gelwyddau,  eithr  o  chan 
ef  ddammeg  gofaled  ei  bod  yn  ei  hystyr  y  cyfryw  ag  y  gwelir  mai 
dammeg  ydyw,  ag  nid  hanes  o  ryw  ddigwydd.  a  gofaled  ei  bod  oV 
cyfryw  ddychymyg  ag  y  caffer  addysg  ar  ddoethineb  ynddi.  a 
phwyll  a  gwybodau  daionus 


PAIS  ARFAU. 

GwEDi  dyfod  arfer  ar  Bais  arfau  y  Beirdd  Gadeirogion.  a  msg- 
ynt  arfau  Arglwydd  y  Cyfoeth  y  beynt  ynddi,  megis  y  gwisgaint 
Feirdd  Morganwg  Bais  Arfau  Morgan  ab  Ithel  sef  Gwpl  arian 
mewn  maes  asur  ac  am  y  cwpl  tair  Tywysen  Aur,  ac  ar  y  Cwpl 
Tair  meillionen  gwyrddion,  sef  hynny  Arfau  Morganwg  cyn  amser 
iestyn  ab  Gwrgan,  ac  efe  ai  newidwys  i'r  poth  ag  y  mae  yr  awr 
honn. — ac  eraiU  o  Feirdd  Cymry  a  wisgynt  arfau  y  Cyfoeth  lie  y 
Uent  anoddsoddedig.  a  defod  o  syberwyd  honn  ac  nid  Deddf  o  brif 
»  chyssefin  ddefod, 

Y  Beirdd  a  drwsiynt  y  gorseddau  aV  llysiau  ar  coedydd  hynn,  sef 

1.  Meillion  yr  Alban  Eilir. 

2.  Derwen  fendigaid  yr  Alban  hefin. 

3.  Tywys  Gwenith  yr  Alban  Elfed. 

4.  Yr  uchelfar  yr  Alban  Arthan. 


^t-X^YMA  ENWAU  Y  RHAI  A  WNAETHANT  EGLWYSYDD  A 
CHORAU  YM  MORGANWG. 

1.  Eygen  (eurgain  medd  eraill)  chwaer  ffydd  Hid  Sant  yr  hwn 
^     elwir  Sioseb  Armathia,  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  a  Chor  Eygan  yn 
^^laer  Urgon,  a  elwir  gan  rai  Caer  Worgom  ag  yn  awr  Llanylltyd 
^   Enw  Ylldyd  farchog  a  Sant. 

2.  Ilid  Sant,  a  wnaeth  Lanilid. 

2    F 


\ 


220  AMRYWIAETHAÜ. 

3.  Lies  ab  Coel  a  wnaeth  Landaf,  aV  Bhath  fawr,  a  Llawer 
eraill  ni  wyddys  yn  awr  eu  henwau. 

4.  Dyfan  Sant  a  wnaeth  Gor  Dyfan.  ag  yno  j  lladdwyd  ef  gan 
J  rhai  digred,  ag  o  hyuny  gelwir  y  He  Merthyr  Dyfan. 

6.  Ffagan  a  wnaeth  Llanffagan  fawr  wrth  Landâf,  a  Llan£Eigan 
fach  a  elwir  yn  awr  Llanfaes  wrth  Lanylltyd  farchog. 

6.  Medwy  Sant  a  wnaeth  Lanfedwy  yr  honn  Eglwys  a  losgwyd 
yn  Rhyfel  lestyn  ag  nis  ail  gyweiriwyd  fyth  wedi  hyny. 

7.  Doche  Sant,  a  elwir  Dochwy  Sant  gan  rai  a  wnaeth  dwy 
Gor  yn  Morganwg  oH  enw  ei  hun.  a  Bhai  a  wedant  mai  gyda  Dy- 
fan y  daeth  ef  i  Ynys  Prydain,  ag  eraill  yn  dywedyd  mai  gyda 
Ghadfan  y  daeth  o  Dir  Llydaw, 

8.  Garmon  a  wnaeth  Lan  Garfan, 

10.  Gildas  ab  y  Caw  a  wnaeth  Llanildas  a  elwir  ynawr  j  Wig 
Fawr. 

11.  Tathan  Sant  o  Dir  Euas  a  wnaeth  Landathan,  a  Ghor  fe- 
chan  i  ddeugain  Sant  Lleenawg  a  fu  yno  iddo, 

12.  Gattwg  Sant,  a  wnaeth  Langattwg  Nedd,  a  Uangattwg, 
wrth  Farri. 

13.  Caw  Arglwydd  Cwm  Cawlwyd,  a  wnaeth  Langewydd.  ag 
oddiyno  y  sumudwyd  yr  Eglwys  i  Drelales. 

14.  Cirig  Sant  a  wnaeth  berth  Cirig,  er  lies  eneidiaa  Morwyr, 
a  phorth  iddynt. 

15.  Barrwg  Sant  a  wnaeth  Farri  a  Phenmarc. 

16.  Edeym  ab  Gwrtheym  a  wnaeth  Lanedeym,  a  Ghor  i  dri-     — ^ 
chant  0  Saint  yno. 

17.  Gwrgan   ab  Ithel  a  wnaeth    Lanfabon  ar  £ro,    a   elwir  rx-^ 
Silstwn. 

18.  St.  Eleri,  a  wnaeth  St.  Eleri, 

19.  Segin  Sant  o  Gor  ylldyd  a  wnaeth  Lanfihangel 

20.  Arlwydd  Ysbenser  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  Brywys. 

21.  Peirio  ab  Gildas  a  wnaeth  Lanfair  y  mynydd. 

22.  Isan  Sant  o  Gor  Ylltyd  a  wnaeth  Lanisan 

23.  Morgan  ab  adras  a  wnaeth  Fargam  a  Chyn£B^. 

24.  Y  marchog  Greenfil  a  wnaeth  Eglwys  G^nedd. 

25.  Y  marchog  Lydwn  a  wnaeth  Gor  y  Weni. 

26.  Crallo  Sant  Brawdd  ffydd  Ylltyd,  a  Sant  oU  Gor  a  wnaet--— tó 
Langrallo,  eraill  a  wedant  fal  hyn 

Crallo  Sant  oedd  yn  amser  Lies  ab  Coel,  ag  efe  a  wnaeth  Tdi^  ^ 
grallo.  a  myned  ar  adfail  a  wnaeth  hyd  oni  ail  wnaethpwyd  ^^ 
Eglwys  gan  Gruff,  ab  lestyn. 


/ 


AMRYWIAETHAU.  221 

27.  Morgan  amheurig  a  wnaeth  y  Coetty. 

28.  Einion   ab  Collwyn  a  wnaeth   Lantrisaint,   wedi   Llosgi 
Llangawrdaf. 

29.  Tudfyl  Sant  a  wnaeth  Merthyr  Tudfyl 

30.  Elian — a  wnaeth  Lanelian.  (Eglwys  Ilan) 

31.  Gwrfan  Escob  o  Landaf  a  wnaeth  Lansanffraí4  fawr  ag 
Eglwys  y  Drenewydd  ynottais, 

32.  Teilo  Sant  a  wnaeth  yr  Aes  fawr,  a  Llandeilo  Forallt  yn- 
gwyr,  a'r  aes  a  elwid  Llandeilo  Faenor 

33.  Catwardd  Sant  o  Gor  Ylltyd  a  wnaeth  St  Dunwyd. 

34.  Mar  Croes  Samson  ag  Esgob  Sant  o  Gor  Ylltyd. 

35.  Gwrgi  Sant  o  Gor  Docho,  a  wnaeth  Penarth. 

36.  Llanfernog,  Mernog  Sant  o  Gor  Tochwy 

37.  Sill,  Cadell  Sant. 

38.  Treiddyd  sant  o  Gor  Ylltyd  a  wnaeth  Lantryddyd. 

39.  St  Andras  ni  wn  i  pwy. 

40.  Llanelwan  a  elwir  ynawr   Trefflemin    ni    wn  i  pwy  ai 
gwnaeth. 

41.  Pendeulwyn  Emyr  Llydaw  ai  gwnaeth. 

42.  Bleiddan  Sant  o  Dir  Cral  a  wnaeth  Lanfleiddan  a  Brawd 
Sjdd  ydoedd  i  Armon  Sant. 

43.  Nudd  Sant  o  Gor  Ylltyd  a  Brenin  a  wnaeth  Llysfronudd 

44.  Owain  ab  Morgan  hen  a  wnaeth  Ystrad  Ywain 

45.  Maenarch  larll  Henffordd  a  wnaeth  Gelli  Gaer. 

46.  Caerllion  ar  Wysg  Cystenin  fawr  a  Maxen  Wledig. 

47.  Aberavon  Morgan  ab  lestyn 

48.  Maesaleg.  Arthur,  a  gwedy  hynny  Ifor  ab  Llewelyn. 

49.  Llanfihangel  Fedwy  Cydwaladr. 

60.  Machen  Ynyr  Gwent. 

61.  Bedwas.  Tewdric  ab  Teithfalch. 

62.  Llandw.  Tewdric  ab  Teithfalch. 

63.  Llangana.  Cana  Santes  ael  Tewdwr  Llydaw. 

64.  Cerrig  Hywel.  Hywel  ab  Owain  ab  Morgan  Hen, 

65.  Gwenfo  Brychan  Sant. 

56.  Llanfair  Misgyn,  Meiryg  ab  Tewdrig. 
67.  Cynwyd  Sant.  a  wnaeth  Langynwyd. 

S  SSÍfÄ  }Dyf*S  Santo  Go,  YUt,d. 

60.  Llanfeithin,  Cadog  ab  Gwynlliw. 

61.  Llangadell.  Cadell  Sant  o  Gor  Cadoc 


22^  AMRYWIAETHAU. 

65.  Lleirwg  Sant  o  Got  Gaerllion  ar  wysg  a  wnaeth  Lanleirwg. 
— ^lleuer  mawr  medd  eraill. 

66.  Llanaran.  Aran  Sant. 

67.  Llanarai  Grarai  Sant  o  Gor  Bangor, 

68.  y  Pil  William  larll  Caerloyw. 

69.  Llanfawdlan.  Yr  un  William  larll  Caerloyw. 


Y  CWTTA  CYFARWYDD. 

Y  Llyfr  a  elwir  y  Cwtta  cyfarwydd  o  Forganwg  a  ysgrifenwyd 
gan  Meuryg,  Trysorydd  Llandaf.  efe  a  elwis  ei  Llyfr  y  CieUa  Cy- 
farwydd 0  Forganwg^  ac  o  hynny  y  cafes  ef  ei  hun  yr  enw  hwnnw. 
ond  y  mae  yn  y  llyfr  hwnnw  ynawr  lawer  o  chwanegaidau  at  y 
pethau  a  oeddynt  o'r  dechreu  ynddo.  efe  ysgrifenoedd  y  Meukto 
hwnnw  hanes  holl  Ynys  Prydain,  a  Llyfr  Diarhebion.  a  Dosparth 
Cerdd  dafawd;  a  Theologyddiaeth  Gymraig,  ac  a  wnaeth  Efengyl 
leuan  yn  Gymraeg  o'r  Lladin  ac  Esponiaid  ami.  ac  yr  oedd  y 
llyfrau  hynn  yn  Abermarlas  o  gylch  hanner,  canmlynedd  yn  ol. 
laco  ab  Dewi. 

• 

EX  CWTTA  CYFAEWYDD.    (VOL.  17.  PLAS  GWTNN.) 

GwYBYDDKT  Pobyl  Vrythanycit  pan  yw  Seith  Cantref  y  Bydd 
ym  Morganwc.  Yn  y  Arglwyddiaeth,  ac  Escobaeth.  Y  cyntaf 
yw  y  Cantref  Bychan,  yr  ail  cantref  yw  Gwyr  a  Chedweli.  Try- 
dydd  Cantref  Gorwenydd,  Pedwerydd  yw  Canref  Penychen, 
Pymhet  yw  Gwynllwg  ag  Edelygion,  y  Chweched  Cantref  yw 
Gwent  is  Coet,  y  seithvet  Cantref  yw  Gwent  uwch  Coet,  Ystrat 
yw  ac  Euas  y  rhai  a  elwit  dwy  lawes  Gwent  uwch  .Coet,  ac  hefyd 
Erging  ac  anerging,  mal  y  mae  cwbyl  Terfyneu  yn  Llyfr  Teilaw. 


DERNYN. 

a  marchogaeth  yn  y  blaen  a  wnaethoedd  oni  ddaeth  i  fiMnol  ar- 
dir  He  ami  yd  a  gwair  a  Uandir  caeadberth,  a  thai  teg  maenwynion 


AMRYWIAETHAU.  223 

calchaid  a  physgodlynnoedd — a  gwinllanoedd  a  gerddi  a  pher- 
llanau  gwyrddon  yn  llawn  ffrwythau  a  llysiau  a  blodau  penon  o 
arbennigion  twf  daear.  ac  ami  gwartheg  a  defaid.  a  phob  adar  can 
hyd  frondiroedd  coedwigaidd  lie  ami  y  gwelid  brenbinddar  a  dyfai 
er  yn  oes  oesoedd,  a  llais  com  a  chynnydd  yr  arwain  arianllais 
bytheuaid  yn  ymlid  Gadno  cochbaia  dichellbell  ar  hyd  gefndir 
prydwyllt  rhedynog  a  lliaws  urddolion  gwlad  a  bonedd  gwesteion 
ar  ei  ol,  a  bloedd  tref  a  Chartref  yn  ymgymysg  a  cherdd  a  chom 
y  Sbrdd  y  ffoai  leidr  oen  a  lledfegin  adar.  ami  y  clywid  Uafar  ffust 
ac  olwyn  a  bwyall,  ami  bref  gwartheg  a  defjEuid,  ac  ami  cerdd  gan 
Fardd  a  serchog,  ynghyd  a  thrydar  Own  a  cheiliogod  a  phlant 
bychain,  ac  yn  ystlysau''r  ffyrdd  maendai  calchwyn  wydiynig 
ffenestri,  a  phob  cael-gyfannedd  yn  darogan  llawn  a  llonydd,  a 
bodd  calon  doeth  a  dedwydd.  gwae  fy  nhynged  ebe  Meilir 
na  chawn  yma  fod  a  bywyd  yr  hyd  ac  y  bai  fy  rhan  yn  hynn  o 
fyd,  onid  amgen  ym  mhell  ywV  digwydd  y  rhoes  Dduw  ar  fy 
rhann  ac  mi  a  ymfodlonaf  ynddo  deued  a  ddel — fystori  Meilir  a 
Merck  yr  hafodteen) 


BRAINT  LLANILLTUT  VAWR. 

Byddet  hysbys  a  chyfraith  i  bawb  yn  dywysogion  ag  Arlwyddi, 
a  Bonheddigion  a  Brehyriaid  a''u  Dyledogion  a  gwreng  ac  Eillion 
Eîn  bod  ni  Rhobert  larll  Caerloyw  yn  Lloegr,  a  Thywysog  Mor- 
ganwg  yn  hawl  a  Braint  Cenedl  y  Cymry  Ac  Arlwydd  Gwladvor- 
gan  yn  hawl  a  Braint,  Dawn  a  chywlad.  y  rhagenwedig  Genedl,  ag 
yn  Nawdd  Tattref  ein  hunanawt,  yn  Deddfu  yn  hawl  a  Braint  y 
Llythyr  dangos  ac  edring  yma,  rhoddi  Braint  a  thrwydded  Dyled- 
ogion ym  Mhrehyrdref  Llanilltut  vawr  yngwlad  Forgan  fal  y 
dangoser  rhagUaw,  nid  amgen  na''u  braint  yn  rydd  au  Tiroedd  yn 
rhad,  fal  y  bu  iddynt  a  chanddynt  yn  oes  oesoedd  herwydd  cyf- 
reithien  a  Defodau  Breiniau  Cenedl  y  Cymry  ai  Arlwyddi  Llys  ai 
Sonheddigion  o  Frehyriaid  ai  gwreng  ai  Eillion  dam  y  bont,  a 
phawb  yn  Briodorion  ac  amrhiodorion  y  bont  a  rhydd  a''u  bodd 
iddynt  herwydd  braint  y  Cyfreitheu  a  ragysbyswyd  ymgynal  yn 
eu  braint  au  gosgordd  au  Llysoedd  au  defodau  ymhob  achos  a 
threfn  a  thrafod,  herwydd  pob  lawn  a  chyfraith,  fal  y  bu  gynt  er 
yn  oes  oesoedd  iddynt  ag  y  mal  y  rhoddasom  yn  gyflys  a'r  llythyr 
arddangos   hwnn  ir  Dyledogion  an  cywiriaid   ym  Mhrehyrdref 


224  AMRYWIAETHAU. 

CynflSg  heb  amgenym  amynt  ag  erddynt  na  chadw  golwg  ar  a 
wnelont  a  gweled  ei  fod  herwydd  a  Ghyfraith  a  dyledogaeth,  ae 
ymraint  ai  ymraint  gwlad,  ai  ymraint  Uys  ai  ymramt  Llann,  ai 
ymraint  ai  ymraint  arf  ai  ymraint  Celfyddyd  a  Gh^bodao,  ai 
ymraint  Llongwriaeth  ai  ym  mraint  Marchogaeth,  ai  ymraint 
Ffeiriau  ai  ymraint  marchnadoedd  ai  ymraint  prynu  ai  ymraint 
gwerthu,  ai  ymraint  hawl  ai  ymraint  gwrthawl,  y  bo  a  a  gweled  a 
Threfni  a  gorchymyn  na  bo  amgen  na  Chyfraith  amgaeedig  a 
chadam  iddynt  ac  erddyn  i  naill  aV  llaill  ag  o'^r  naill  ir  Uaill  an 
hawl  an  dyled  an  breiniau  a^n  Pendefigaeth,  herwydd  cof  cyfraitíi 
i  ninnau  an  hepil  dros  fyth  an  gwrogaeth  i  ninnau  modd  y  bu  ac 
y  byssei  pei  nas  rhoddid  y  Llythyr  Braint  a  dangos  hwn. 


SIARTR  SWYDD  Y  WAUN. 

GwYBYDDED  pawb  a  welo  neu  ar  a  glywo  y  llythyr  hwn,  Bhis- 
siart  larll  Arwndel,  ag  Arglwydd  y  Waun  yn  anfon  Annerch  iV 
ddeiliaid  oV  unrhyw  Arglwyddiaeth  fal  hynn.  Gwybyddwch  weled 
a  ddeall  o  honom  ni  Siartr  ein  urddasol  Dad  ni  Edmwnd  larll 
Arundel  yr  hen  a  wnaeth  iw  gyflFredin  ddeiliaid,  &c.  Ac  ymdyst- 
ioketh  ar  hynn  nyni  a  roesom  ein  sel  &c  y  nawfed  flwyddyn  ar 
hugain  o  deymasiad  y  trydydd  Edwart  frenin  gwediV  Goncwest 
(1356.) 


Gwybydded  pawb  ar  y  sydd  yr  awr  honn  ac  a  ddelont  rhagUaw 
yn  y  byd.  Nyni  Bhissiart  Arwndel  Ac  Arglwydd  swydd  y  Waon 
yn  gweled  a  deall  y  Siartr  a  wnaeth  ein  caredic  Dad  ni  Edmwnd 
larll  Arwndel  iw  ddeiliaid  rhydion  &c. 


DIARHEBION  AMMAETHYDDOL. 

loNAWR  a  dery  i  lawr,  Ebrill  a  fling, 

Chwefrawr  yspail  cawr,  Mai  a  gwyn  y  galon, 

Mawrth  a  ladd,  Mehefin  llawen  gorsing. 


\ 


AMRYWIAETHAU.  225 

Gorphenaf  llawen  buarth,*  Hydref  lion  cyfarwar, 

Awst  llawen  gwr  y  Ty,  Tachwedd  dechreuV  galar 

Medi  llawen  adar,  Bhagfyr  gocheler  ei  far. 

*  {Uatcen  üuarth  in  Jos.  Jones) 


Cyded  bach  o  Iwch  mawrth  a  dal 

cydaid  mawr  o  aur  y  brenin. 

Haid  wenyn  os  ym  mai  an  cair 

a  dalant  Iwyth  wyth  ych  o  wair 

Da  haid  mehefin  os  da^u  hoen, 

Am  haid  Gorphenaf  ni  rown  ffloen, 

Os  ym  mis  Chwefror  y  tyf  y  pawr 

Trwy V  flwyddyn  wedyn  ni  thyf  ef  fawr 

Os  ym  Mawrth  y  tyf  y  ddol 

Gwelir  llewndid  ar  ei  ol. 

Gwyn  ein  byd  os  Ebrill  mwyn 

A  wisg  y  llawr  a  gwrysg  y  Uwyn 

Mai  gwlybyrog  gantho  cair 

Llwyth  ar  dir  o  yd  a  gwair 

Mis  Mehefin  gwych  os  daw 

peth  yn  sych  a  pheth  yn  law. 

Gwenwyn  blin  i'^r  march  aV  ych 

Mis  Gorphenaf  na  fo  sych. 

Awst  OS  ceir  yn  anian  sych 

A  wna  i  Gymro  ganu'^n  wych 

Hanner  medi'n  sych  a  wna 

Llyngell  lawn  o  gwrw  da. 

Gwanwyn  a  gwawn  llogell  yn  Uawn 

Ni  edewis  haf  sych  newyn  erioed  ar  ei  ol. 

Chwefror  a  chwyth  y  neidr  o''i  nyth 

Mis  mai  oer  a  wna'n  ddi  nag 

Scubor  lawn  a  mynwent  wag, 

Gwynt  mis  Mawrth  a  haul  mis  mai 

A  wna  hagr  lie  ni  bai 

Gwell  gweled  dodiHh  fam  ar  elor 

na  gweled  hinon  teg  yn  lonor 

Haid  0  wenyn  yng  Ngorphenaf 

Had  rhedynen  ei  phris  pennaf 

Tri  pheth  a  gynnydd  ar  y  gwres 

Gwenyn  a  gwenith  a  mes 


226 


AMRYWIAETHAÜ. 


Tri  plieth  a  gynnydd  ar  y  glaw 
Gwlydd  ag  Ysgall  ag  Ysgaw, 
Blwyddyn  egfaenog  blwyddyn  arianog. 
Blwyddyn  gneuog  blwyddyn  leuog. 
Cneuog  ffrith.  cynhauaf  brith. 
Gwlybyn  a  gwres  yn  ebriU  a  wna 
i'r  ffermwr  ganu  fel  yr  eos. 
Pan  goUer  y  glaw  oV  dwyraîn  y  daw 
Pan  goUer  yr  hinon  oV  gogledd  daw  attorn 
Ebrill  sych  pob  peth  y  nych, 
Twf  0  bob  rhyw  a  phob  peth  byw 
Mai  oer  a  fydd  yn  iach  ei  ddydd 
yn  argoel  haf  heb  fawr  yn  glaf. 
Ebríll  fwyn  gwlych  Iwyn  sych  Iwyn. 
Chwefror  a  leinw  y  cloddian 
a  mawrth  ai  hyf  yn  foleidiau 


DIARHEBION  ODLEDIGION. 


AwR  ar  ol  awr 
Dawn  Duw  sydd  fawr. 
a  fedd  rad  Duw 
goludog  yw — 
Hir  ei  dafod 
Byrr  ei  wybod 
Tafod  diog 
Synwyr  bywiog 
ai  les  iw  law 
y  doeth  a  daw. 
Bhaid  i  segur 
waith  i  wneuthur. 
Cyngor  ofer 
un  nas  ceisier 
ynfyd  a  gar 
Swn  ei  lafar 
a  garo  bwyll 
ni  arfer  dwyll. 
Gwirionedd  yw 
Mab  hynaf  Duw. 


Goreu  gorddod 
Bam  cydwybod 
Dilys  yw  dawn 
Duw  i  bob  iawn 
Da  dros  ddrwg 
Tr  nef  a'^th  ddwg 
gwell  ymroddwr 
na  dialwr — 
ysbys  ar  ddŷn 
Beth  ei  wreiddyn 
ami  y  ceir  diawl 
yng  ngwisg  y  gwawl 
Y  dwr  dyfnaf 
a  fydd  lyfnaf 
Cartref  gwîr 
y  nef  ys  dir 
gwna  di  mewn  prys 
a  wneit  mewn  Uys 
Gofia  mhob  Gél 
Bod  Duw  aHh  wel 


AMBYWIAETHAU. 

227 

ìh  gorddod 

Angen  o  ryw 

Buan  ar  droed 

^dwybod. 

Neud  angen  yw 

A  gyrch  hiroed 

^n  eî  fyd, 

Adfyd  a  phall 

Trecha  treisied 

fywjrd. 

gwnant  ddyn  yn  gall 

Gwanna  gwiched 

idaioni 

Cadw  dî  dy  rîn 

un  drwg,  un  gwall 

dd  ofhi 

0  fewn  rth  f  în 

arhoed  yllall 

h  pob  gwir 

Ag  nîd  edrydd 

y  câr  dilys 

i  cerir, 

neb  ei  ddennydd 

Ing  ai  dengya 

>ei  canffai 

nid  aeth  eríoed 

Rhysgyr  camwedd 

[dysgai 

Rhyhir  i  goed. 

Ar  wirionedd 

byddai 

gŵyr  dyn  pan  êl 

ai  gwna  gan  ddig 

ig  neb  rhaî. 

nis  gwyr  pan  ddel 

yn  wyn  ffymig 

nid  da 

Codi'n  fore 

ys  dir  y  llwydd 

9^el1hâ 

Haner  gore 

Uaw  gyfarwydd 

.hwain  drwg 

0  waith  gorfod 

Cyngor  gan  gall 

hyllwg. 

Y  diwarnod 

Bam  gan  ddeall 

vo  Dduw 

maes  gwr  diog 

Araf  gan  bwyll 

lîgyw 

yn  adwyog, 

a  wna^n  ddi  dwyll 

üduw 

Bid  hardd  ar  hen 

Bemir  yn  well 

gelyw 

gendawd  awen, 

a  geir  o  bell 

ei  Dduw 

gwaith  cawdd  a  wnèl 

Diâtadl  a  gwael 

;allyw 

Byd  ar  ochel. 

Pob  hawdd  ei  gael. 

r  dduw 

I  galon  wann 

Gwedi  neidio 

ioeth  y  w 

Da  traed  buan, 

Rhy  hvryr  peidio 

o'r  dall 

Pob  un  a  gân 

Tlws  goreu'n  bôd 

ddeall. 

Lie  ceir  arían 

yw  gwain  tafod. 

pÁa  glod 

Claf  am  gyfoeth 

Tafod  annoeth 

oabod. 

Clefyd  annoeth. 

yn  dan  ehwilboeth 

10  barch 

Buan  i'r  wledd 

lafarch 

Buan  Tr  bedd 

0  Lyfr  Esaia  Powel. 

1  yr  hen 

Buan  ar  farch 

lolo  Morganwg 

úigen 

Boan  i'r  arch 

1803. 

2  o 


PRYDYDDIAETK 


I.  CAN  SERCH,  O'R  HEN  GANIAD .♦ 

1  GroRTHRWM  a  thrwm  a  thrist  fyddaf, 
Ni  charaf  un  tro  tra  fo  gauaf, 

Oni  ddel  mai  glasai  glosydd 
A  gwyrddlen  penn  pob  glwys  irwydd 
Mae  immi  glas  urddas  gwyrddail, 
Galon  hoywfron  hyfryd  adail. 

2  Mewn  llwyn  ffyrdd  duwyrdd  dyfiad, 
Harddgrwn  yw  hwn  hynaws  gaead, 
Ni  ddaw  ai  annedd  y  cas  ddynion, 

Na  neb  ond  medrus  moddus  mwynfron, 
Hyfryd  ei  bryd  clyd  pan  ddeilio, 
Ty  glas  parlas  purlen  amo. 

3  Cyntedd  tirion  mwynion  manwydd, 
Ar  lawr  meillion  gleision  glosydd 

a  chog  serchog  ddoniog  ddenus*  *  ddawnus.^    al 

Yn  canu  n  Iwys  lais  cariadus, 

A  chiw  bronfraith  buriaith  beraidd 

Yn  canu  *n  hardd  loyw  hoywfardd  hafiûdd. 

.4  Eos  o'i  llwyn  yn  fwyn  gyfannedd 
Arail  mewn  gwyrddail  gerddi  maswedd. 
A  chydaV  dydd  ehedydd  hoywdon 
a  gan  yn  drylwyn  fwyn  bennillion. 
a  phob  llawenydd  hirddydd  hyfryd 
O'th  gaf  wenno  yno  ennyd. 


*  "  Uyfr  John  Bradford,"  medd  lolo  Morganwg ;  ae  feDy  y  cyftn  o'i 
Caniadau  hynn. — ^Ab  Iolo. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  229 

(Qu !  ai  can  arall  hon !    lolo  Morganwg.) 

5  Moes  Tm  gusan  eirian  feinwar, 
Lliw  cann  ydwyd  lie  can  adar, 

A  moes  er  mair  gair  gobeithwych, 
Eigu  Ian  fan  a'i  gael  yn  fynych, 
Fy  nyn  feinaal  hardd  fwyn  benpryd 
Gwn  ganad  am  cur  pur  yw'r  penyd. 

6  Gusan  a'th  wnelai,  nid  llai  lledfryd, 
Yn  engyn  dros-benn  awen  ynfyd, 
Gar  fi^n  bwyllig  ddiddig  ddyddiad 
Fab  afreolus  nwyfus  nofiad, 

Oni  ddel  amser  mwynder  moddus 
A  dail  mai  ar  Iwyn  swyn  cysurus. 

7  Dyna  mfn  parlas  wyrlas  irlen 
Oed  tyddiaw'^n  wir,  hir  anniben. 
Hir  aros  bun  yn  been  immi 

A  bair  Tr  galon  dirion  dorri, 

A^m  bedd  am  wenn  dan  brenn  briglas, 

Yn  iach  i  ^nynan  ai  chain  wanas. 

8  O  daw  ymorol  fanol  feinir, 

Pwy  ganai  i''r  llwyn  mwyn  min  glasdir, 

mab  sy'n  hir  arwain  orhoen  alaeth 

Gariad  dan  wydd  henvydd  hiraeth. 

Anniwyg  cadam  a  geir  arno, 

Oes  a  wnai  gannoes  aros  Gwenno. 
liys  Goch  o  Dir  larll  ab  Rhiccert  ab  Einion  ab  Collwyn  ai 
,  cylch  1140. 


n.    CAN  I  WALLT  MERCH. 

Mae  twf  ar  benn  gwenn  gain  eiliw, 
Modd  llaes  hirllaes  larlles  odliw, 
Llwyn  llin  lliw  gwin  gwiail  dyfiad 
Hyd  ei  sawdl  dyw  ei  osodiad, 
Owiail  aur  arian  glan  glwys  waneg, 
Uwch  dwyael  feinion  gloywon  glandeg, 


230  PÄYDYDDIAETH. 

Talcen  gwastodloyw  hoyw  hardd  hyfryd 
Llîw  ffrwd  geirw  garw  garregryd. 
Tan  y  tal  grísial  gryswyn  lewych 
Tirion  olygon  llonn  llawenwych, 
Dwy  seren  serch  seirian  ei  gweled 
Ymhen  gwenn  feingan  lan  ail  Luned 
Gorllîw  ei  grudd  gwin  rudd  rhaspi, 
Lledawd  aur  addawd  wedri  roddi. 
cyfliw  rhos  gwylltîon  gelltydd  deiliog 
cwrel  iachusder  sywber  serchog, 

A  rhwng  deoradd, 

Gwawr  ysblennydd, 

Trwyn  main  moddus 

Bychan  gweddus, 

a  min  fel  mel 

I'm  dyn  dawel. 
Owefus  mirain  liw  cain  cwrel. 
A  man  ddannedd  a  gwedd  hoywgoeth 
Amlwg  ymhenn  gwenn  gymhenddoeth, 
Gên  bychan  crwn  a  hwn  mor  hynod, 
Ag  yn  nydd  mynydd  mewn  gwn  manod. 

Mwnwgl  claerwyn 

Deuliw'r  ewyn, 

Hardd  ei  dwyfron 

Fy  mun  diríon, 

o  fewn  meingrys 

Dau  berl  ysbys. 

Hardd  ail  Enid 

Pei  mesurid 
gan  gymwysder  glwysder  gleindid. 
Bun  deg  dawelddawn  ysgawn  wisgi, 
Ni  phlyg  manfeiUion  ar  donn  dani, 
Alarch.  Wylan.  glan  ei  glwysbryd, 
Meindwf,  iawndwf  hoywdwf  hyfryd. 

Dwylaw  gwynion 

Bysedd  meinion, 

ymmod  buan 

ar  we  sidan, 

ag  ewinedd 

Gwridog  ei  gwedd 
Medrus  hwylus  heiliaw  gwinwledd. 


PÄYDYDDIAETH.  231 

Hir  ei  hystlys  weddus  wiwddyn 

A  chanol  main  gain  gymmhwysddyn, 

Bergron  esgair 

Wengron  iawngrair 
A  throed  da  i  lun  i'm  bun  ddiwair, 
Pe  cawn  i*m  byd  ennyd  annerch 
DdaV  byd  o'i  benn  fe'i  cae'r  wenferch, 
Er  cael  un  awr  lliw  gwawr  lywy, 
Ym  mreicliiau  honn  tonn  Gwenhonwy. 

Bhys  Goch  ab  Bhiccert  o  Dir  larll  ai  cant. 


m.    CAN  SERCH. 

Glâf  wyf  0  serch  annerch  Anni, 

ag  ni  chaf  honn  lonn  liw^r  Lili, 

Ni  bu  Lili  gerddi  gwyrddion 

Mor  deg  ym  myd  na  phryd  gwenfron 

Gwenfron  galon  golwg  gwisgî, 

Duw  Nef  ai  gwyr  llwyr  ym  lleddi 

Na^m  Uadd  cangen  feinwen  fwyniaith, 

gad  imi  fyw  rho  rhyw  obaith, 

Oes  i'*m  obaith  hudiaith  hedydd, 

Ei  chael  ai  firiw  hoywliw  hafddydd, 

Hafddydd  y  sydd  son  am  Dano, 

wrthyt  fy  nghwyn  gwenn  fwyn  gwrando, 

Gwrando'*n  garedig  orig  eiriau 

Clwyf  sydd  fal  saeth  ar  faeth  dan  f  assau, 

Dan  f  ais  maen  glais  mae'n  glwyf  yssig, 

O  garíad  merch  nid  serch  sorrig 

Sorrig  îaith  lem  gem  gwlad  Gymru 

Yt  geisio''n  wael  fain  ael  fy  nychu, 

Nychdod  i'm  dwyn  trwy  gwyn  trengaf, 

Am  liw  od  taen  eiry  gaen  gaeaf. 

Graeaf  yw  amaf  ernych  Dybryd 

Ym  o  fin  alaeth  am  f ''anwylyd, 

Anwyl  wyd  fun. 

Fth  liw  aHh  lun. 
Eluned  am  rhoes  dan  loes  anhun. 

Bhys  Goch  ab  Riccert  o  Dir  larll  ab  Einion 
ab  CollwyD,  ai  cant. 


232 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


IV.     CAN  Y  CUSANAU. 


1  Er  Mair  meingan, 
Moes  im  gasan, 
Moes  ddau^n  fuan 
ydwyd  wylan. 

2  Moes  dri  Meinwar, 
Moes  im  bedwar, 
Moes  fab  aHh  gar 
Bump  yn  hawddgar. 

3  Moes  chwech  Tr  mau 
o^th  gosanau, 
Muchudd  aeliau 
Moes  wyth  yn  glau, 

4  Moes  naw  mun  chweg, 
Moes  imi  ddeg, 
Moes  un  chwaneg, 
Moes  im  ddeuddeg. 

5  Moes  im  ugain 
Fy  ngwenriain 
Moes  im  dngain 
ar  fin  mirain, 


7  Moes  imiV  mil 
Fy  mun  gynnil, 
na  ddos  ar  gil, 
Moes  im  ganmil 

8  Moes  fil  miloedd, 
Moes  im  luoedd, 
Defiii  Dyfroedd. 
Ser  y  Nefoedd. 

9  Dod  yn  eu  plith 
Na  fydd  gyrrith 
Bif  defhi  gwlith 
Er  fy  mendith. 

10  Yna  Bun  wenn 
Byddaf  lawen 

a  cherdd  o^m  penn 
Itti  feinwen. 

11  DeoneV  hinon 
Dyro'n  Dirion 
fy  llawn  ddigon 
Ar  dy  wenfron 


6  Moes  ber  ei  mant,  12  Eiliw  mandes 

Fm  gyflawn  gant,  Galon  gynnes 

Eiliw  mangant  Yn  61  maeV  lies 

Moes  i^m  nawcant,  Nod  y  neges. 

Bhys  ŵoch  ab  Bhiccert  ab  Einion  ab  Gollwyn  ai  c&^^ 

V.  CAN  I  DDANFON  YR  ADAR  YN  LATTEION  AT  FERdT- 


Serch  y  rhoddais, 
ar  ddyn  feinais, 
Hoen  geirw  mor  gwyllt, 
Bon  ael  Essyllt 


Ei  thegwch  hi 
Bu^n  saeth  imi, 
E'm  saethes  Iionn 
O'i  golygon, 


PRYDYDDUETH. 


233 


O  gwelais  wenn 
Hoen  eiry  gaenen 
Bid  gwaeth  i  mi 
Golwg  ami 
0yd  bai  fy  ngwenn 
Hawdd  ei  gwyngen 
Bwrw  gwg  y  bydd 
ar  ei  phrydydd 
0yd  gwyppoV  ferch 
Gilwg  mwynserch 
aV  vab  ai  car 
nid  dyd  meinwar, 

Er  cam  o  honn 
y  gwydd  gleision 
Ni  chaf  dan^  ddail 
Awr  ei  harail, 
Cydbwyf  o^m  serch 
Yn  ei  hannerch 
Sy  o*T  llwyn  glaa 
rhag  serchog  was, 
Er  dfaiaw  can 
ar  neV  wylan 
ni  wrendy  'nghwyn 
Dan  frig  irlwyn 

Dos  diV  fwyalch 
at  ddyn  feinialch, 
Dangos  iddi, 


^mhoen  am  Dani 

Bronfraith  a  gan 
Ar  wydd  eirian, 
dwg  oil  o'm  cwyn 
at  loyw  forwyn, 

TithauV  hedydd 
Bardd  Boreuddydd 
Dangos  i  honn 
Fy  nhorr  calon. 

Dod  tithauV  gog 
a'th  Don  serchog 
yng  nghlust  y  ferch 
fy  nghwyn  traserch. 

Cyfaill  cyfhos 
WyfTrEos. 
Aed  honn  yn  Sest 
Am  cerdd  arwest. 
At  liw  calch  gwynn 
Yn  ael  Dyfl&yn. 

Yna  dVedyd 
Wrth  fanwylyd 
OS  hi  ni  ddaw 
i''m  cysuraw 
I  goedlwyn  îr 
Panwyl  Feinir, 
o'i  serch  lliw'r  haf 
marw  a  fyddaf 
Rhys  Groch  ap  Rhiccert  ai  cant 


VI.    CAN  I  FERCH  NI  FYNNAI  NAMYN  HAFODWR 
YN  WR  IDDI 

EcHDOB  gwelais  man  y  rhodiais 

Hoen  mandes  haf  Bun  a  garaf, 

Cyfarch  i  honn  eiliw  hinon 

a  son  wrthi  am  briodi, 

yna  dan  wydd  tyngai  wenddydd, 

ni  fynnai  fod  iddi'^n  briod, 

na  fyddai  wr  o  Hafodwr, 

yn  fab  diwarth  Uawn  ei  fuarth, 

Minnau  am  ferch  yn  dwyn  traserch 


234  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

a  ddodais  nod  lie  gwnawn  hafod. 
Cell  er  ei  mwyn  ym  min  Coedlwyn 
Lie  cai  fy  myd  drorn  ei  bywyd 
Plethais  adail  oV  man  wiail, 
Yn  beth  ddillyn  ail  gwaith  gwenyn, 
Prynu  defaid,  pob  ysgrublaid, 
A'u  troi  beunydd  ar  y  mynydd, 
Mai  ym  dir  Gwair  er  Bun  ddiwair, 
A  phorfeldir  llawn  dyffryndir, 
Allwest  rhywiawg  tir  meillionawg, 
Hyd  wyneb  tonn  Dolau  gleision, 
A  Buarth  teg  yn  llawn  gwartheg 
ami  iawn  ei  blith  ymhob  cyfrith, 
Beudai  a  wnaf  erbyn  gauaf 
Yn  westisiant  yn  ael  gronant, 
lair  a  gwyddai  am  y  drysau 
Hwyaid  gerllaw  yn  cryg  leisiaw 
Pob  hanas  blith:  haidd  a  gwenith ; 
Pob  peth  yn  Ian:  Gardd  a  pherllan; 
Pob  ymborth  Byd  i  T  anwylyd. 
Os  at  ai  car  y  daw  meinwar 
Erddi  mae''n  wr  o  Hafodwr, 
Hithau  ^min  craig  yn  hafodwraig 
Bydd  ryngom  serch  yn  cydannerch, 
Pob  cell  yn  llawn  Duw  a  Digawn 

Bihys  ŵoch  ab  Bhiocert  ai  cant. 


VU.    CAN  YN  DANGOS  A  WNELAI    O  CHAI'R   FER( 

A  GARAI, 

Cerais  wenferch  ami  ei  hannerch, 

a  hir  orllwyn,  y  ''myd  addwyn, 

er  yn  oed  mab,  bum  was  arab, 

I  orlliw  tonn  taenferw  eigion, 

ne  terydr  haul,  hyd  bant  araul, 

Dwyn  dirfawr  been,  am  eiry  unhoen, 

Ni  chaf  er  hvnn,  deccaf  wenddyn, 

ymlid  ydwyi  yinlyn  ei  phlwyf, 

Bun  a  garaf  ag  ni  pheicQaf, 

Llwybrau  glyn  Uwyn,  Dol  lleihr  a  thwyn, 


PKYDYDDIAETH.  285 

Pob  tonn,  pob  âr,  pob  cam  daiar 
Cyfriw  arfaeth,  pei  bawn  ammaeth, 
byddwn  er  honn,  Ammaeth  gwirion, 
byddwn  im  gwlad,  yn  wr  arad, 
'byddwn  er  Gwen,  geilwad  ychen, 
byddwn  er  bun,  o  gwbl  eiddun, 
a  weddei  'mod,  er  ne  manod, 
a  wnelei  fodd,  bun  am  hudodd, 
a  wnelai  mab,  er  lloer  arab, 
a  wnelei  merch,  o'i  mawr  draserch, 
Byddwn  Feirwr,  byddwn  Filwr, 
Byddwn  wr  march,  gwrdd  dihafarch, 
Byddwn  wr  swydd  yn  Llys  Arglwydd^ 
Byddwn  beunydd  yn  warthegydd, 
am  Olwen  ail  byddwn  fugail 

Dan  defyll  gwydd  byddwn  ddedwydd  dedwydd;  h.  y. 
Byddwn  im  naid,  yn  ddyn  Diriaid,  gwr  wrth  gref- 
Byddwn  a  wnai,  bodd  am  carai,  ydd. — lolo, 

Rhyfedd  y  modd,  Gwen  am  hudodd, 
E  hudai  honn,  adar  gwylltion, 
achos  ei  thwyll,  y  mau  gorflfwyll, 
mileines  yw,  am  awneddyw, 
Dywed  er  mair  fy  mun  ddiwair. 
ai  byw  ai  bedd,  gennyd  geinwedd, 

Rhys  Goch  ab  Rhiccert  ai  cant 


VIII.     CAN  YR  ANHUN, 

Oer  yw  fy  nghwyn,  am  wawr  addwyn, 
Porffor  ei  gwisg,  Iwybrau  difrisg. 
Gome  gwynlliw,  tonn  ewynfriw. 
Am  dani  Md  wyf,  dan  loes  irnwyf, 
Hoffais  ei  gwedd,  haul  rhianedd, 
Er  hynn  nis  caf,  wenddyn  deccaf, 
Clwvfus  wvf  fi,  claf  am  dani, 
Hir  am  hoywfun,  yn  dwyn  anhun, 
ys  ami  iV  mau,  trwm-  feddyliau, 
Heb  gwsg  y  nos,  heb  gof  agos. 
Nwyf  y  ddwyfron,  berw  y  galon, 
am  ome'r  od  vn  vmdrafod. 


236  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

Rhyfedd  am  twyll  o  bob  amhwyll, 
Deall  na  chof  ni  cheir  ynof, 
Gobaith  y  cawn  deune  manwawn, 
A  nes  er  hyn  ni  fum  ronyn, 
Hael  yw  meinwen  wrth  bob  angen, 
Hael  wrth  gwynfan  dyn  tlawd  egwan, 
Am  lynn,  am  fwyd ;  am  gylch  aelwyd» 
Am  nawdd  wrth  raid  i  ddieithraid 
Am  aur  a  gwin,  Degau  lesin, 
Diarhebant  honn  Gaillt  ag  Estron, 
Diarhebant  wawr  gvrreng  a  brodawr, 
Diarhebant  hi  Byd  Barddoni, 
ai  llawened  ymhob  cerdded, 
wrth  ni  waeth  bwy  dyn  ai  gofwy, 
ac  wrth  ei  bardd  o  ferw  attardd, 
anhael  yw  Gwen  ag  aflawen, 
Bhyfeddod  cred  ei  anhaeled 
Wrth  wan  ai  car  gan  ddwyn  gaUr, 
Mair  a  wybydd  am  ei  phrydydd 
ni  chwsg  y  nos  awr  oi  hachos, 
Pan  ddel  gwawr  ddydd,  dos  di**!  hedydd 
Dangos  i  honn  las  fy  nghalon, 
maint  am  wenfun  fy  hir  anhnn. 
mawr  ymboeni,  marw  am  dani. 

Rhys  Goch  ab  Rhiccert  ai  cant. 


IX.    CAN  HIRAETH   AM  A  GARAI. 

Mae  im  Iwyn  balch  He  can  mwyalch 
befrgoed  bill  diwedd  Ebrill, 
Llawen  i'm  llais  dydd  a  welais 
yn  arail  can  ym  caid  yman, 
yn  arail  merch  ar  lawr  llannerch, 
Gyda  gwenddydd  byw'^n  y  coedydd. 
Teccach  meinwar  na  ffriw  toniar, 
Ban  ferw  gweilgi  gan  wynofi, 
gwynnach  gwenfron  lioen  ewyndon 
nag  ar  ddail  drain  glan  Lenlliain. 
aethum  o'i  serch  hardd  edlinferch 
yn  gul  fy  mron  a  digalon, 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  237 

Claf  wyf  dan  wydd  o'i  eerch  Wenddydd, 

yn  dwyn  trymhaint  a  gofeiliaint, 

rhaid  yw  immi  dan  wyrddlwyni 

Feithrin  hiraeth  am  ddyn  wenfaeth, 

cyrchu  didrain  erddi  Biain. 

Lle'm  daw  dyball  cof  a  deall. 

anwr  ydwyf  achos  irnwyf 

Pa  les  fy  myw  gan  am  doddyw. 

un  ym  mewn  rhwyd  wyf  a  ddaliwyd 

LleMd  wyf  yn  gaeth  gan  hudoliaeth. 

Gwae  fi  o'r  fann  dan  wydd  eirian 
Lie  gwelais  honn  ome  gwendon. 
Cyd  bum  lawen  gweled  meinwen, 
Dybu'n  ebrwydd  immi'n  aflwydd 
yn  adeg  maeth  cydnabyddiaeth. 
Lliw  blodau  mai  mwyn  y  byddai. 
cawn  wenau  serch  gan  dawelferch. 
cawn  ei  harail  dan  y  manddail. 
Cawn  iaith  addwyn  gan  loyw  forwyn, 
ai  chusanu  Bun  lygeittu. 

Rhyfeddod  yw  modd  y  deryw 
serch  hoyw  Wenddydd  at  ei  phrydydd. 
DarfuV  gair  mwyn  aV  cyforllwyn, 
mwythusder  mad,  pob  cyfliwiad. 
ni  chaf  yn  awr  gan  od  lonawr, 
air  bach  yn  serch  na  cyfannerch, 
ni  fynn  fy  myd  leihau  ""mhenyd, 
o  fedd  ni  fynn  gadw  ai  gofyn, 
Tost  fy  nhynged  am  ail  Luned, 
gwae  fi  Tanrhaith,  darfu  ngobaith 
am  wawr  eigain  marw  yn  gelain. 

Rhys  Groch  ab  Rhiccert  ai  cant. 


X.    CAN  Y  FRONFRAITH 

Bum  yn  ael  Maes  yn  g^vrandaw  iaith, 

Dan  bren  briglaes  Ceiliog  bronfraith, 

yn  cly wed  ton  o  goed  y  glynn 

adar  gwylltion  Prydai  englyn, 


238 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


o  goed  y  rhiw 
canai'*n  gywiw, 
Brith  oedd  ei  fronn 
mewn  dail  gleision 
mal  ar  gangau 
mil  0  flodau, 
yn  ymyl  nant 
pawb  ai  clywant, 
gan  wawr  y  can 
mal  cloch  arian, 
cynnal  aberth 
hyd  awr  anterth 
ar  allawr  las 
Heiliaw  Barddas. 

0  gangau  cyll 
gwyrddion  defyll 
y  can  gywydd 

1  Dduw  Ddofydd, 
a  charol  serch 

0  las  lannerch, 

1  bawb  ar  bant 
glyn  ai  carant, 
Eli  calon 

Pr  serchogion, 


Gefais  oi  benn 
Cyflais  awen, 
Cerdd  o  fitres 
am  boddlones. 
Llawen  a^m  gwnaeth 
Ei  ganiadaeth. 

Yna  drwy  barch 
Dodais  gyfarch 

0  glais  y  glynn 
Fr  aderyn, 
Erchais  yn  iSraeth 
Ei  Latteiaeth 

at  y  wenferch 
Lie  mae^m  traserch. 
Aeth  Bardd  y  dail 
oV  man  wiail, 
at  ail  Luned 
Haal  y  merched. 

1  glais  y  Fro 
Mair  ai  llwyddo. 
Er  dwyn  immi 
Dan  ir  Iwyni 
Hoen  dd  unnos 
yn  ddiaros 

Rhys  Ooch  ab  Bhicoert  ai  cant. 


XL  CAN  HIRAETH  Y  BARDD  AM 
GARIAD  EF. 


NAS    MYNNAI  EI 


HoYWDEG  Riain  hydwf  Iwysgain, 
Eiliw  gwenyg  geirw  am  gerryg, 
Heno  i'm  clwyf  heinus  ydwyf 
Heiniais  o'*i  serch  hardd  lawenferch, 
Hauodd  i'm  bron  heiniar  gloesion 
a  honn  a  hyllt.  o'm  hud  gorwyllt, 
oed  dydd  ni  chaf  nai  nawdd  amaf. 
na  heddwch  Bun  na  gair  cyfon. 
Hudoles  deg  hoyw  adameg 
ni  rydd  air  serch  i'm  cyfannerch 
Herwr  mal  hydd  wyf  dan  goedydd. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  239 

amgwr  ei  phlwyf  htírwr  ydwyf . 
6wae  fi  nhynged  am  ail  Luned 
Na  chawn  arail  6wen  dan  irddail, 
Bun  wen  am  rhoes  dan  engeirloes, 
Hir  iawn  y  trig  dan  ais  yssig, 
Hiraeth  Tm  bronn  ac  im  calon. 
Hiraeth  a^u  hyllt  am  dwf  Essyllt. 
Hualwyd  fi  yng  ngresyni 
gofal  Tm  hais  a  ryfegais, 
gofal  am  Wen,  droedled  Olwen, 
Hir  yw'm  anhun  achos  Gwenfun, 
Eled  yn  iach  y  Byd  bellach, 
gobaith  nid  oes,  budd  o'm  heinioes, 
na  modd  i  mi  fod  awr  hebddi, 
Hi  onis  caf  marw  a  fyddaf. 

Rhys  Goch  ab  Bhiccert  ai  cant. 


Xn.    CAN  I  YRRUR  WYLAN  YN  LLATTAI. 

Yr  wylan  deg  ar  fol  gwaneg, 
ymhlith  dystrych  yr  heli  crych, 
Brenhines  wenn  geirw  mor  Hafren 
a^h  Deymas  di  nawton  gweilgi. 
ymborth  ydd  wyd  ar  bysgodfwyd, 
Gwisgi  meinwen  wyd  ar  aden, 
ag  er  mwyn  hynn  wyf  yn  d'ofyn. 
Dwg  erof  gan  o'm  oer  gwynfan 
At  feindwf  ferch  yn  deg  annerch, 
Claf  wyf  am  wenn  hoen  ôd  gaenen 
Fe  ddodes  hon  saeth  im  dwyfron, 
A'u  dwyn  ydd  wyf  gloesion  imwyf, 
Dywed  wylan  wrth  liwV  od  man, 
Fy  mod  wen  gu  yn  ei  charu, 
Cyrch  hyd  ei  chaer  Bun  oleuglaer, 
a  chan  om  pen  ei  raawl  meinwen, 
Pei  gwnawn  arwest  oV  pum  gorchest 
ni  thraethwn  fawl  a  fai  moddawl, 
na  chanfed  rhan  clod  bun  eirian, 
oni  chaf  honn  tyrr  fy  nghalon, 
af  i  boeni  dan  wyddeli, 


240  PRYDYDDIAETH. 


yno'n  draphell  yng  nghudd  coedgell 
Meinwar  a  fydd  fy  nihenydd. 

Bhys  Goch  ab  Bhiccert  ai  cant. 


Xra.     CAN    I    DDANFON    MERCH  I    RÜFAIN    I    DDWTI«K 
PENYD  AM  LADD  EI  CHARIAD. 

GwAE  fi  wenferch  erioed  d^annerch, 

gan  ni  bu  nes  imrm  neges. 

ag  ni  chawn  dal  am  hir  ofal, 

a  marw  ydd  wyf  o  haint  gwiwnwyf, 

mawr  o  bechod  yt  liw  manod 

Ladd  dy  was  mwyn  a  fu**!!  d'^orllwyn, 

Cymmer  di  ffonn  bert  o  linon 

a  dos  ddyn  fain  hyd  yn  Rhafain. 

Pab  a  ofyn  itti  wenddyn 

"  Pa  ddrwg  benna  a'th  ddug  ymaP 

*'  0  mynni  Nef  rhaid  cyfaddef, 

yno  ydd  eddy  gwenddyn  anhy 

Ei  bod  ar  fai  am  ai  carai 

Mai  hi  a  wnaeth  ei  farwolaeth 

Torri  calon  a  fa  flFyddlon, 

I  fab  o^'i  gwlad  farw  oi  charíad^ 

a  bod  ei  benn  dan  dywarchen, 

yna  gwisgir  rhawn  am  feinir 

Er  dwyn  penyd  dros  ei  bywyd, 

am  ladd  oi  bodd  mab  ai  carodd. 

Maddened  Mair  i'm  dyn  ddiwair 

Mai  ydd  wyf  fi  n  madden  iddi. 

Fy  nyn  gannaid  nef  iw  henaid.  

Bhys  Goch  o  Dir  larll,  ab  Bhiccert  ab  Eii 
ab  CoUwyn  ai  cant. 


XIV.    CAN  YR  HAF. 

Canap  yd  haf  wyd  hoywfeirdd  Bennaeth, 
Canhewydd  llwyn  drain  gain  ganiadaeth, 
Caniadan  adar  gwâr  gwydd  irion 
Cynnadl  cerddoriaeth  cain  dderw  Coedfron, 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  241 

Goedfron  blagurlawn  dawn  dadeni 

Caeadfrig  addien  gwyrdd  Hen  Uwyni 

Llwyni  Uawn  gwiail  gwelir  beunydd 

Llennyrch  lie  î  dygyrch  Degau  elfydd. 
Taro  tant  alaw  nant  ael  y  naw  twyni, 
Til  dy  rwm  tal  dy  rwm  canu  twm  teini. 

2  Elfydden  geimiad  ceidwad  coedydd, 
Elfyw  dail  meillion  llonn  llawenydd. 
Llawen  Bardd  awen  ewybr  enau, 
Llywy  maes  arlwy  ar  lawr  bryniau, 
Bryn  a  phant  tyfant  tewfawr  waneg 
Brenin  bin  hoenus  hynaws  adeg, 
Adeg  serchogion  dynion  dawngar, 
ydwyd  haf  irlas  ar  Iwyn  adar. 

Taro  tant  alaw  nant  ael  y  naw  twyni, 
Til  dy  rwm  tal  dy  rwm  canu  Twm  Teini 

3  Adar  Bydafau  heidiau  bedant, 

a  daw  cain  gogau  dolau  deilbant, 
Dail  bawrlwytb  garddlwyth  amgylch  gwyrddlwybr. 
Deiliad  gwlad  gaead  gywen  loyw-wybr, 
Gloywybr  mandes  cynnes  ceiniad  anterth, 
Glas  barlas  berwlith  With  blawd  glynbertb, 
Glyn,  bryn,  brwyn  Uwyn  Uawn  Uewych  gwenhaul, 
Glân  bryd  yn  diflfryd  dyffryn  araul. 
Taro  tant  alaw  nant  ael  y  naw  twyni 
Til  dy  rwm  tal  dy  rwm  canu  Twm  Teini 

4  Araul  dy  fore  dy  fardd  ydwyf 
Eirian  dy  hinon  hynaws  irnwyf. 
Imwyf  am  doddyw  dydd  ymadfynn, 
Eumer  wyd  immi  dymor  gloywyn. 
gloyw  a  hoyw  hygar  daiar  duedd 

gly w  wyd  haf  hyfaeth  hoy wfeirdd  drasedd, 

Trasawl  cariadawl  croywdwf  irddail, 

Trasyw  tres  adar  11  u  gwar  gwiail. 

Taro  tant  alaw  nant  ael  y  naw  twyni, 
Til  dy  rwm  tal  dy  rwm  canu  Twm  Teini. 

5  Gwieildwf  newydd,  neuadd  immi, 
Gwal  dan  frig  cyngerth  berth  bedweni, 


\ 


242  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

Bedwen  min  gorallt  ai  gwallt  gwyrddlaa 
Bydaf  i  Brydydd  Bryd  cyweithas. 
Cyweithas  mwynwas  mewn  He  didrain, 
Caeth  ei  gerdd  draserch  i  ferch  firain, 
Mirain  ei  sain  iesinfalch  Eos, 
Meirwon  gwydd  herwydd  ei  hir  aros. 
Taro  tant  alaw  nant  ael  y  naw  twyni 
Til  dy  rwm  tal  dy  rwm  canu  twm  teini. 

6  Hir  aros  hafddydd  bydd  barddoni 
Herwyr  hyd  briffyrdd  gwyrdd  gwyddeli. 
Gwyddeli  carant  cywres  ymgyrch, 

Gwedd  ael  bryn  heulawg  hoywlawr  Uennyreh, 
Llennyrch  ami  ymgais  amgaer  mangyll, 
Llawenydd  canau  ceinion  defyll. 
Tefyll  oed  dyddiau  tewddail  annedd 
Tyfiad  paradwys  mammwys  mwynedd. 
Taro  tant  alaw  nant,  ael  y  naw  twyni 
Til  dy  rwm  tal  dy  rwm  canu  twm  teini. 

7  Mwynedd  cain  adwedd  adeg  hirddydd, 
Mynnwn  i  nwyfron  nwyf  dywenydd, 
Dywenydd  gwynferch  merch  ne  mandes 
Dwynwen  syberwyd  menwyd  mynwes. 
Mynwes  bun  berwen,  berw  an  dyfii, 
Miniaw  cusanau  swynion  cam. 

cerais  neV  wylan  Olwen  wisgi, 

Gyweiriais  adail  irddail  erddi. 

Taro  tant,  alaw  nant,  ael  y  naw  twyni. 
Til  dy  rwm  tal  dy  rwm  canu  twm  teini 

8  Erddi  rhygenais  geinion  odlau, 
Irddyn  ganolfain  gain  gynheddfau, 
Cynneddf  serchogwas  o  dai  glaswydd 
Canu  mawl  didawl  dyn  ysplennydd 
Ysplennydd  dan  wŷdd  dyn  wen  eirian 
Ys  blin  immi'r  anhun  am  fun  feingan. 
Meingan  Lloer  arian  Uiw'r  eiry  gwynnaf, 
Meingorph  harddlun  im  ceinfun  canaf 

Taro  tant  &c.  &c. 
Rhys  6och  ab  Rhiccert  ab  Einion  ab  CoUwyn  ai  cant. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  243 


XV.    CAN  Y   DEILDY. 

Erltnais  ferch  ar  las  lannerch. 
Liw  blodau  man  efeill  perllan 
Grudd  eiliw  rhos  ar  ôd  unnos 
Golwg  serchog,  llygad  bwyog  (qu.  bywiog  ?) 
Eurwallt  melyn  uwch  tal  gorwyn, 
Ar  ben  dỳn  fau  yn  fodrwyau. 
Eiliais  i  honn  dan  gyll  gwyrddion 
Wielin  gell  yn  hoyw  babell. 
ym  mysg  llysiau  a  fflawr  blodaa, 
Lie  gwahoddais  fy  nyn  lednais 
ys  bemid  hardd  Llys  flFeryllfardd 
Lie  daw  meinwen  dan  gaeadlen 
Lie  caf  annerch  hardd  edlinfercii 
a  rhoi  cusan  Vm  dyn  einan. 
Tra  phery**!  haf  ami  y  cyrchaf 
I  goedlwyn  ir  gyda  meinir 
ymyl  dol  gain  mewn  tir  didrain. 
ymherfedd  cell  gwnaethum  babell 
Er  mwyn  bun  deg  elain  waneg, 
Er  earn  honn  mewn  encilion. 
aros  y  dydd  ynghêl  coedydd 
YmgaruV  nos  He  can  ëos 
Gwyrdd  yw**r  ty  man  gwrdd  ei  assau, 
Gwaith  Haw  Duw  Iwyd  ar  ei  gronglwyd, 
Gwead  cadam  heb  waith  isam. 
Gwiail  cymmhleth  uwch  cain  eneth 
addurn  i  fardd  ymhlith  glasdardd, 
addail  i  ferch  a  gar  draserch. 
Meinwen  a  gar  gytgerdd  adar, 
mae  uwch  ei  phen  ar  bob  cangen. 
cywedd  y  can  ednaint  diddan 
cywyddau  serch  cwbl  gyfannerch. 
canant  i  fun  hoyw  ei  meinllun 
cydfolant  honn  adar  gwylltiou, 
mi  o'^m  serch  mawr  at  fireinwawr, 
nim  dawr  o  ged  eithr  ei  gweled. 
cofleidiaw  honn  hardd  ei  g^venf^on 
a  chael  cusan  ei  min  bychan. 
2  I 


244  PRYDYDDIAETH. 


Nid  âf  at  wrach  draw  i  gilfiach 
Er  cael  oed  dydd  gyda  Gwenddydd, 
af  i  lys  dail  dan  bleth  gwiail, 
yr  hafddydd  hir  gyda  meinir. 

Bhys  Goch  ab  Bhiccert  ab  Einion  ai  cant. 


XVI.    CAN  MAWL  MERCH. 

Bu  bwyall  brenn,  Bardd  anghymen 
Yn  naddn  can  i  Wenllian 
yn  braenu  gwawd  i  ferch  wengnawd 
Heb  aír  oi  benn  dan  nod  awen. 
o  bu  gwas  pwl  oi  wag  feddwl 
Tman  ei  fod  er  lliw^  manod 
yn  gwatwar  serch  er  hudaw  merch, 
un  anghelfydd  dan  enw  Prydydd 
yn  son  cam  wrth  geînwawr  gu 
Cybydd  anghawr  dan  enw  Cerddawr, 
yn  gwarthu  honn  hoywne  hinon, 
Nid  o  gerdd  hwn  dengair  dyngwn» 
ydd  a  clod  merch  ar  lef  traserch 
ac  y  clyw  byd  mawl  ei  glanbryd, 
ac  y  clyw  gwlad  ei  gwedd  ganiad, 
ac  y  clyw  un  son  am  wenfan. 

Minnau  bellach,  bwyf  amgenach 
O  wyddgell  werdd  fan  rieingerdd, 
am  serch  aV  gan  i  Wenllian, 
Bun  a  welais  man  y  rhodîais 
Ne'r  Alarch  gwyn  ar  lawr  dyflfryn, 
Gerddai  dyn  war  wyneb  daiar 
yn  hardd  baunes  drwyV  melyndes, 
ag  ni  phlygai  man  y  cerddai, 
dan  wyndraed  hon  nn  or  meillion, 
Harddwch  Bun  fain  na  chyflen  gain 
Blawd  o  gylchon  ar  ddrain  gwynnion, 
Lliwber  ei  grudd  lliw  rhosyn  rudd; 
Deuwrid  ei  boch  rhosyn  deugoch, 
Gwawr  cyferbyn  oV  gwrid  a^r  gwynn, 
a  mawr  y  mel  ar  fin  cwrel, 
Gwineufain  ael  gwyndal  urael, 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  245 

Trwyn  moddas  hardd  medd  ei  chanfardd, 

medd  ai  rhygar  hoywdeg  Feinwar, 

mwnwg  Uiw  cann  neu  od  ar  fann, 

a  bur  i  mi  ymbendroni. 

Bronnau  gwynion  tlysau  glwysion, 

Eiliw  gan  ddydd  manod  mynydd, 

angau  am  daw  o^u  trasylliaw, 

a  thecced  yw  mynwes  bun  syw, 

a  thecced  llun  meingorph  gwenfun 

a  thecced  gwedd  gwawr  rhianedd, 

Dwylaw  bychain  agwedd  mirain. 

Gwawme  gwinedd  meinion  fysedd, 

cywraint  ai  caf  neddair  alaf, 

Bun  bryd  eirian  yn  gwau  sidan 

Alaf  ei  gwaith  pob  manylwaith 

alaf  Uaw  Gwemi  mud  yn  gymmen, 

Troed  bychan  teg  Bun  hardd  waneg, 

ysgawn  fal  hydd  hyd  y  meusydd, 

ni  plyg  Uysiau  dan  liw  blodau 

Llyna  bryd  cain  a  llun  mirain 

Bun  a  gajuf  om  calon  glaf, 

Gampau  Bun  hardd  medd  ei  gwanfardd, 

Tra  rhagorant  mal  dan  warant, 

Ei  mwynder  gwenn  ai  gair  cymmen, 

ai  Uafar  doeth  Lloer  awengoeth 

ai  goslef  gwar  He  can  meinwar, 

ai  goslef  maws  nawcan  eaws, 

am  dettry'^n  llwyr  o'^m  hoU  synwyr, 

am  dwg  mal  twyll  o'm  hoU  ymbwyll, 

a  ddod  wallcof  cadam  ynof 

a^m  rhy  mewn  bedd  llynaV  diwedd, 

onis  caf  honn  claf  fy  nghalon, 

onis  caf  hi  yn  chwaer  immi, 

Cyn  diwedd  haf  marw  a  fyddaf, 

meddylied  honn  iachau  nghalon 

ag  onis  gwna  ys  gwnn  yn  dda, 

Ei  flerch  a  fydd  fy  nihenydd. 

Rhys  Goch  ab  Bhiccert  ab  Einion 
ab  CoUwyn  ai  cant. 


246 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


XVII.     CAN  Y  GWYNT. 


1  GroRWYLLT  o'm  nwyf 
Gwae  fi  Mdydwyf 
Mjn2kg  ym  mhlwyf 
Man  y  byddwyf. 
Neud  gochel  wyf 
Nad  ymbwyll^^^ 

2  Ymbwyll  ni'm  daw 
Nag  ystyriaw 

Ni  wnaeth  ba^m  traw 
0  rybuddiaw 
am  liw  od  ffraw 
gwae  fi  gwynaw, 

3  Cwynaw  am  wenn 
Fain  fynyglwen 
A'm  ias  im  penn 
gwallgof  cyfrben, 
Hoen  hynt  aerdren 
Haerwynt  wybren, 

4  Wybrenwynt  gwrdd 
rth  daer  ymwrdd 
Lie  dd  elych  flFwrdd 
Llew  ynghysgwrdd 
A''t  aHh  gyffwrdd 
rth  daith  agwrdd 

5  Agwrdd  dy  gyrch 
Coed  a  llennyrch 
Taendardd  tonndyrch 
Wybren  entyrch 

ar  flFo  drwy  flFyrch, 
Ergyr  aergyrch. 

6  Aergyrch  ar  wŷdd, 
Gwarrau  gelltydd, 
Myssaing  mynydd, 
Myssam  meysydd, 
Mum  adeilwydd 

A  dail  dolydd, 


7  Dolydd  nithiaw. 
Neb  rth  rwystraw, 
Rhwysdren  rodiaw 
Bliydrais  bwyllaw ; 
Noethdir  chwiliaw 
Nerth  draig  amaw 

8  Amat  fy  nghwyn 
aHh  drais  ymddwyn, 
Attal  Bardd  mwyn 
Rhag  Bun  addwyn, 
Gwr  wyd  ar  dwyn 
Garw  i'^m  gorllwyn. 

9  Gt)rllwyn  meinwen 
wyf  im  hamdden, 
Heb  fyth  i  benn 
Bodd  ai  pherchen, 
Mydwyf  fardd  Gwenn 
O'm  gwawd  aren. 

10  Aren  wyt  ti 
arawd  weini, 
Dwg  erof  fi 
Wawr  fain  iddi 
Mau  gân  cynni 
Mad  y  medri. 

11  Medri  hadeg 
at  fun  wendeg 
Hyd  arw  a  theg 
Yn  ddiattreg. 
A'm  cerdd  anrheg 
at  ail  Indeg 

12  Indeg  feinais 
un  a  gerais 

Hoen  gwendonn  bais, 
a  ryserchaia, 
ag  oer  fy  llais 
am  wawr  lednais 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


247 


15  Gwendonn  Riain 
aM  thwf  mirain 
myth  draed  elain, 
Ar  Iwybr  gwyrain, 
mawr  am  ddyn  gain 
Mau  hir  ochain. 

16  Ochain  a'm  hyllt 
am  ail  Essyllt, 
ym  mangre  byllt 
Gorsaf  gwersyllt. 
Serch  am  eddyllt. 
Au  gur  gorwyllt. 

Gorwyllt  o''m  nwyf 
ac".  ac".  ac". 
Bhys  Oroch  ap  Rhiccert  ab  Einion  ab  Collwyn  ai  cant. 


3  Llednais  ne  cann 
wrth  bawb  pob  man 
Ond  wrth  druan 
Ai  car  meingan, 
wrth  ei  bardd  gwanu 
Gwenn  nid  yngan. 

4  Yngan  wrth  honn 
Hoywne  hinon, 
Maint  blinderon 
A  briw  calon 
Maint  cur  i''m  bronn 
Am  bryd  gwendonn. 


XVin.    CAN  EIDDIG. 


GwNETTHUM  o''m  scrch 
Oed  a  gwenferch, 
Dan  gangen  cyll, 
Gwyrddion  defyll, 
Fe  ddaeth  Meinwar 
at  fab  ai  car, 
Yno  Bun  dlos 
Mi'^n  ei  haros. 
Dodi  cusan 
Ar  fin  Meingan, 
Ar  y  min  mau 
Cael  cusanau, 
£nsail  ymgred  . 
ac  ail  Luned, 
do  cyfaredd 
Nwyf  cyslynedd, 

0'*n  amgylch  haf 
Haul  gorphennaf, 
Ac  ar  glawr  maes 
Glas  dwf  hirllaes. 


Meillion  yn  frith 
Manddail  cymmhlith, 
Minnau  a  gwenn 
yno'*n  Uawen. 
Gorwedd  ein  dau 
ym  mysg  blodau, 
Gorwedd  ar  donn 
ymhlith  meillion, 
Finfin  a  gwenn 
O'^m  holl  awen, 
Gwledd  a  gefais 
ar  fin  meinais 
Gwledd  Dewi  Sant 
Ynghor  Hodnant 
Gwledd  Taliesin 
Yn  Llys  Elphin, 
Gwledd  y  fort  gronn 
yng  Nghaerllion, 
Gwledd  angel  glwys 
ym  Mharadwys. 


248 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


Ninnau  ddeuddjn 
ar  wledd  fal  h jim 
Heb  ofalu 
Am  ddim  a  fa 
Heb  fyfyriaw 
Am  ddim  a  ddaw, 
Gwynfyd  y  sydd 
Byth  ni  dderfydd 
yn  cyfymnawdd 
yn  mi  ansawdd. 
Hyn  ar  ein  can 
oedd  y  cyfan, 
Felly  mymû 
cydfoddloni 
I  fyw  yn  Ian 
Ar  wledd  cusan 
I  farw  ein  dau 
O  gusanau 
Nycha  uwch  benn 
Gwr  aflawen 
Hen  Eiddig  du 
Dan  wargrymmu, 
Wyneb  tomlyd 
Grolwg  barllyd 
A  barf  Iwydgoch 
Cyfliw  gwrych  moch 
Dwylaw  gwas  gau 
yn  gigweiniau, 

Bhys  Oroch  ap 


A  minbryd  glas 
Gttn  ail  Suddas, 
Derchafael  ffonn 
Parth  a  gwenfron 
Ac  heb  oedi 
Ffonnawd  ami 
Ergydiaw  gwenn 
ar  ei  thalcen 
a  dodi  clais 
Ar  gain  arlais, 
Ffonnawd  neu  ddaa 
I^m  penn  innau, 
A  meinael  gu 
yn  Uewygu. 
gorfod  codi 
ac  ymfirommu 
A  gyrru  tarf 
A  was  bychfarfl 
a  gyrru  braw 
a  ffwyr  amaw, 
a  gyrru  ffo 
a  mefl  iddo. 

Am  a  wnaeth  ef 
Ai  oer  ddolef 
I  ddeuddyn  ga 
Yn  ymgam, 
A^n  rhoi  mewn  braw 
Oerfel  iddaw. 
Bhiccert  o  Dir  larll  ai  cant. 


XIX.    CAN  Y  DIEILRHYW. 


Tripheth  ni  cheir  ei  heilryw 
Grymialog,  serchog  a  syw, 
Grymialog  a  fynn  rymial, 
Achwyn  heb  achos  a  dal. 
Grymial  a  grymus  dafawd 
Gremian  heb  daw  pei  dydd  brawd. 


Dioer  ni  fynn  o  fodd  dewi 
Dywedwyf  a  fynnwyf  fi, 
Grymialu  grymaldawd  maith 
Un  ai  haw  yn  anhywaith, 
Ni  char  daw  na  diwedd  son, 
Am  y  modd  y  mae  dynion, 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


249 


dd  y  djdd  fal  j  daw 
'dd  pawb  iw  flinaw. 
bawb  bei  wybai'r  byd, 
w  drostaw  yn  dristyd, 
ydd  wrth  ei  fodd  neb 
Q  heb  ddwyn  dau  wyneb, 
fydd  imi  ddydd  a  ddaw 
dd  rhyadael  iddaw, 
mialed  a  fynno 
1  y  byd  man  y  bo. 
;hog  ni  serch  ar  dafawd 
'  gerdd  na  fo  lais  gwawd, 
in,  ar  fawrserch  fydd 
boen  arni  beonydd. 
-all  gan  wallofain, 
nerch  ond  rhyw  ferch  fain, 
r  iw  fryd  llwyr  iw  fronn 
ai  henwi  lliw^r  hinon. 
in  son  na  sain  amgen 
ei  waith  ond  am  wenn, 
w  ei  gais  ond  am  gael, 
nod  gain  ei  meinael. 
y  cwbl  cablu  arall 
cerdded  a  gweled  gwall ; 
yw  oil  a  gar  ef 
gwynndangaergwiwnef, 
pei  yno  llu  byd, 
wel  yn  anwylyd. 
a  y  dynyn  dawnsyth 
iw  am  arall  fyth. 
ist  dyn  dinag  annerch 
'  swn  ond  ef  ai  serch. 
ddilyn  swydd  alathr 
•ch  ar  fun  bob  Hun  llathr, 
kis  aur  nag  arian  fyth, 
wy  na  phlwm  trwm  trasy  th, 
gywraint  ar  faint  a  fo 
rd  unawr  am  dano, 
Ian  ar  bob  man  fal  merch, 
irwsiai  am  draserch, 


Ni  thai  son  nid  digon  da 
Diamommedd  dim  yma, 
Rhaid  ar  oil  amgylch  bylch  byd 
Ei  wellhau  a  Uaw  ddiwyd, 
Ag  ar  bawb  cyd  bei  gorau, 
Ymlaen  o  hyd  ymlanhau^ 
Nid  iawn  oV  byd  11yd  Uedryw 
nid  digon  byth  boddhau  syw. 
Mynnu  manol  ar  bob  peth 
Ei  Ddofydd  braidd  yn  ddifeth. 
Mawr  am  y  mawr  mae  bob  dydd, 
Ai  ddirfawr  boen  ni  dderfydd. 
Felly  ef  heb  fall  ofeg 
Am  oU  i  ben  diben  deg 
Ni  fynn  weled  un  lied  Uaw 
Heb  oemad  mae  bai  amaw. 
Na  llythryn  oV  llythrod  man 
Ar  un  gronyn  oV  graean. 

A  minnau  yn  nyddiau  nwyf 
Trwy  adwyth  y  tri  ydwyf, 
Grymialus  wyf  trwyf  traserch 
Am  nas  caf  ddifeiaf  ferch. 
Fm  lleferydd  bob  dydd  dioer, 
Grymialus  egr  am  wiwloer, 
Serchogwas  serchogaidd  wyf 
Yma  omais  o'm  imwyf, 
HoU  waith  fy  nghalon  son  serch 
Mai  ynfyd  am  edlinferch, 
ag  ni  ddaw  taw  im  tafawd 
Fy  holl  swydd  i  gweini  gwawd, 
I  ferch,  am  holl  serch  y  sydd 
Ar  loyw  geinddyn  liw  gwenddydd 
Ym  mhob  mann,  er  ei  mawl  hi, 
y  mae  dyn,  son  am  dani. 

Wyf  Syw  er  honn  Gwenonwy 
Ni  bu  o  fab  gwn  neb  fwy. 
Ymgallhâu  ag  i  m  gwellhad 
Uniawn  ystyr  yn  oestad. 
O'm  holl  nerth  ymbrydferthu 
ymboenu  gwn  er  Bun  gu 


250  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

A  He  gwelych  gwych  im  gwisg,  Hrn  iach  yn  uchel  £awredd, 

Difriw  er  hoen  eiry  difrisg.  Ai  Bardd  yn  myned  Tr  bedd. 
Glan  pob  mann  a  modd  arnaf  Bhys  Goch  o  Dir  larll, 

Grwae  a  nŷch  ym,  gwenn  ni  chaf,  ab  Bhiccert  ai  cant. 


XX.    CANU'R  MARW  01  SERCH. 

Deuliw  blodau  meinion  aeliau, 
Mwyn  ei  champau  wrth  gydchwarau, 
Serw  yng  ngolau  dan  aur  dlysaa, 

Gwae  fi  tlysau 

Gwae  fi  tlysau. 
Tlysau  oedd  rhaid  im  dyn  gannaid 
Pentre  nis  caid  wrth  droiV  defaid, 
A  gwenn  ni  phaid  a  dwyn  fenaid, 

Gwae  fi  fenaid 

Gwae  fi  fenaid. 
Fenaid  y  wV  ferch  ar  gwr  Uannerch 
ac  am  wenferch  marw  o  draserch 
A  mi'^n  llawn  serch  yn  ei  faannerch 

Gwae  fi  annerch 

Gwae  fi  annerch. 
Annerch  Wenddydd  gan  ei  phrydydd 
Annerch  beunydd  ar  don  newydd 
A  mwy  ni  bydd  lie  ddaf  trennydd. 

Gwae  fi  trennydd. 

Gwae  fi  trennydd. 
Trennydd  ydd  âf  gwenddydd  ni  chaf 
Gwae  fi  dd  wy'^n  glaf  a  marw  fyddaf 
Ai  chlod  liwV  hâf  mwy  ni  chanaf, 

Gwae  fi  canaf 

Gwae  fi  canaf, 
Canaf  ogan  i'^m  Bun  eirian 
O  draws  amcan  lie  bum  druan, 
Mwyn  fy  nghwynfan  wrth  ymddiddan 

Gwae  fi  'mddiddan 

Gwae  fi  ^mddiddan, 
Diddan  y  bu  Cyn  ei  serchu 
Ynawr  dygnu  a  gwallweddu, 
Yn  gruddlasu  wrth  ei  charu, 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  251 

Owae  fi  caru 

6wae  fi  caru. 
Cam  meinwen  wyneb  lawen 
Heb  oed  i  benn  a  dỳn  irwen, 
Am  nis  caf  wenn  gwnn  fy  Nien, 

Gtwae  fi  dien 

Gwae  fi  dien, 
Dien  i  mi  meingorph  wisgi 
Dioer  OS  tydi  am  gwrthodi, 
Gwn  wynofi  gan  ymboeni, 

Gwae  fi  poeni, 

Gwae  fi  poeni, 
Poeni  beunydd  dwyn  ei  cherydd 
Ochawr  ni''m  bydd  o  lawenydd, 
Y  foryV  dydd  ac  fe  dderfydd, 

Gwae  fi  derfydd 

Gwae  fi  derfydd. 
Derfydd  poeni,  Bun  am  deni 
Gwnaeth  gwenn  imi  a  welwch  chwi, 
Dyn  deg  yw  hi  am  dug  oemi, 

Gwae  fi  oemi 

Gwae  fi  oemi, 
Oemi  angau  dan  wraidd  Tasau, 
Mi  ''mhen  tridiau  dan  fy  ngolau, 
Am  fun  yn  fau  deuliw  blodau, 

Gwae  fi  blodau 

Gwae  fi  blodau. 
Rhys  Goch  ab  Rhiccert  o  Dir  larll  ai  cant. 


CHWEDLAU'R  DOETHION* 

1  3 

TWAMT  ti  chwedl  Ciwg,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cynrain, 
d  cyweirddoeth  Gwynhylwg  Pen  cyngor  Ynys  Prydain, 

len  pwyll  pell  ei  olwg  Gwell  ydyw  cadw  nag  olrhain. 

2  4 

^"waist  chwedl  Cadeiriaith,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  hen  idloes, 

d  awenfawr  ei  araith,  Gwr  gwâr  hygar  ei  Einioes, 

cyntaf  banner  y  daith.  Goreu  cynneddf  yw  cadw  moes. 

•  O  Lyfr  Tre  Brynn. — lolo  Morganirg. 
2k 


252 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Meigant, 
Yn  ysgar  ai  Ysgarant, 
Enwir  difenwir  ei  Want. 

6 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cattwg 


14 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Illdud 
Farchog  Aurdorchog  astud, 
A  wnel  ddrwg  drwg  ai  dylud, 

16 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Car  cu 


Ddoeth,  mab  Gwynlliw  Essillwg,  Gwedi  gorfod  ar  gadlu. 


Bid  galon  Ue  bo  golwg. 

7 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Oyngar 
Sant  wrth  a  fu'n  ei  watwar, 
Hwy  pery  Uid  na  galar. 

8 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gildas 
Y  Coed  aur  mawr  ei  urddas, 
Ni  ryfein  ffawd  i  atgas. 

9 


Nid  anghlod  ymwellianu. 

16 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Urien 
A  phwy  a  ddywaid  amgen ! 
Dichon  Daw  trist  yn  llawen. 

17 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Heinin 
Fardd  o  Nangon*  Llanfeithin 
Gwrawl  ni  fydd  disgethrin. 

18 


A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Ystyphan  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Ceinddar 


Bardd  Teilaw  atteb  buan, 
Dyn  a  chwennych  Duw  a  rann. 

10 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Madog, 
Mab  Idwal,  Prydydd  serchog, 
Ni  Iwydd  i  anghalonog. 

11 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cynllwg 
Fardd  Uwyd  Uydan  ei  olwg, 
Cafas  dda  ni  chafas  ddrwg. 

12 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  cynfyd. 


Wrth  a  weles  aflengarf- 
Ai  gwatwores  Crist  niw  car. 

19 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cynfarch, 

Milwr  esgud  dihafarch, 

Y  neb  na^th  barcho  na  pharch. 

20 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cadgyfto 
Hen,  yn  darllain  llyfr  Cato, 
Nid  mad  gwr  ni  bai  Gymro. 

21 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Dewi 
Gwr  llwyd  llydan  ei  deithi 


Ai  glyw  gloywa  dywedyd. 

Chwarddpan  y  bawdd,  yr  ynfyd.  Goreu  defawd  daioni. 

13  22 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl Cynog,  [iog,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Ystudiiw 
SantPenrhaithgwladBrychien-  gyda'i  Feirdd  yn  cyfeddach 
Deuparth  addysg  ym  mhenglog.  Wyneb  llawen  calon  iach. 


Qu?  Bangor.— lolo  Morgan wg. 
t  Afleugar. — lolo  Moi^ganwg. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  253 

23  33 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cibddar,     A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Oynon 
Wrth  a  weles  yn  anwar,  Yn  ymochel  rhag  meddwon  I 

Ni  thai  hostiiig  a  byddar.  Gwrw  da  yw  allwedd  calon. 

24  34 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Bedwini,     A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  gwrhylwydd, 
Oedd  Escob  da  diwegi,  Oedd  henwr  call  cyfarwydd? 

BhagreithiaHh  air  cyn  noi  ddodi.  Nid  treftad  anrhydedd  Arglwydd. 

25  35 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Cwtta      A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Hu  Arddar, 
Cyfarwydd  wrth  gynnutta,  Yn  ymddiddan  ai  gylbar? 

Nid  edwyn  diriaid  ei  dda.  Dedwydd  un  ai  gwỳl  ai  car. 

26  35 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Dwynwen  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Bheged, 
Santes,  merch  deg  Brychan  hen,  Oedd  ffyddlawn  cyfiawn  ei  gred ! 
Nid  caroaidd  ond  llawen.  A  wnel  ddrwg  ymogeled. 

27  37 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Huail         A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cynghellawr 
Mal>  Caw,  cymmhwyUiad  arail,    Yn  ymddiddan  a  Uiw  gwawr! 
Mynych  y  syrth  mefl  o  gessail.   Ni  phery  pryd  ond  unawr. 

28  38 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cawrdaf  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Ifor 

Fab  Caradawc  Freichfras  Naf,  Hael,  Neuaddbyrth  egor  ? 

Llwyddid  gorchwyl  llaw  araf.  GwaeV  hen  a  gollo'i  mogor. 

29  39 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  gwr  call  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  gwr  hy ! 

Yn  cynghori  gwas  arall  Bid  lawen  pawb  yn  ei  dy, 

A  wnel  ddrwg  arhoed  y  Hall  Wyneb  trist  drwg  ai  ery. 

30  40 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Lleynawg,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Llywarch, 
Milwr  urddol  ardderchawg  ?         Oedd  henwr  dryd  dihafarch  ? 
Gwellbeddnabncheddanghenawg.Onid  cyfarwydd  cyfarch. 

31  41 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cynan        A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Dingad 
Wledig,  Sant  da  ei  anian  ?  Yn  ceryddu  mab  drygdad  ? 

Dryccai*  bob  ammhwyll  ei  rann  Moch  ddysg  nofiaw  mab  hwyad. 

32  42 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gwrgi         A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Mordaf, 
Ar  y  sul  yn  cynghori!  Oedd  un  o'r  Triwyr  haelaf  ? 

NidrhaidiDdedwyddnamneieni.  O'r  drygau  gorauV  lleiaf. 

*  Dyccid,  al. 


254  PBYDYDDIAETH. 

43  63 

A  glywaist  di  chwedl  Dynolwas,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Oewydd 
Goreu  mab  yng  Nghymdeithas!  Sanit.  wrth  ami  ei  garennydd! 

Deddfol  neud  hir  ei  garas.  Nid  car  cywir  ond  Dofydd 

44  54 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Afaon  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Endigant 

Mab  Taliesin  gerdd  gofion !  Fardd.  lie  bu  hardd  ei  amgant! 

Ni  chel  grudd  gystudd  calon  Geiriau  drwg  adwedd  nid  ant. 

45  55 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Morgan  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cydwgi 

Mwynfawr,  mwynfawr  ei  anianî  Bach,  a  orffai  ar  gewri  Î 

Nid  doeth  ni  chel  ei  amcan.  Nid  afiechyd  ond  diogi. 

46  56 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Famaeth  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Haeamwedd 

Yn  cynghori  ei  mab  maeth  ?  Fradawg,  filwr  Teymedd!    [edd. 

Gelfydd  celed  ei  arfaeth.  Trech  north  na  gwir  wrth  ddigas- 

47  57 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Ysgafiiell,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Bleddyn, 
Mab  Dysgyfundawd  Gad-gym-  Yn  ymddiddan  ai  elyn  ! 
Nid  anrhegir  tlawd  o  bell,  [hell?  Nid  gwir  gwir  hob  ei  ganlyn. 

48  58 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Caw?  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Eildderw 

Oyt  bei  hawd  datrhewi  rhew,  Marchawg  serchawg  ger  syberw  Î 

Byd  anhawdd  datrywiaw  rhyw  Hir  y  cnoiV  tammaid  chwerw. 

49  59 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Ysperir,  A  glywaist  ti  a  gant  Garadog 

Yn  ymddiddan  a  Menw  hir?  Breiniol  fab  Bran  ardderchog! 

Car  cywir  yn  yr  ing  ai  gwelir.  Bid  pob  hir  ledrad  i  grog 

50  60 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Ifan  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cennydd 

BrawdffyddCattwgLlancarfan?  Fab  Aneurin  Fardd  celfydd! 
Tywyned  graienyn  ei  rann  Nid  diofal  ond  dedwydd, 

51  61 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Heledd       A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  FfoUwch 
Ferch  Cyndrwyn,  fawr  ei  rheuf-  O  gymmryd  edifeirwch  ? 
NiellirllwyddoFalchedd.  [edd?  Gnawd  gwedi  rhedeg*  atregwdi. 

52  62 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Eleri  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Hngyflwydd 

Lie  ni  chaid  llaw  yn  rhoddi?        Yn  cynghori  rhag  tramcwyddî 
Nid  Uusen  a  hair  tlodi.  Gnawd  gwedi  afrad  afrwydd. 

Rheg  mewn  llyfr  arall. — lolo  Morganwg. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  255 

63  73 

A  glywaifit  ti  chwedl  Gteraint  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Grallo 

Mab  Erbin.  cywir  cywraintl  Lie  nid  oedd  dim  yng  nghyflfro  ? 

Byrr  hoedlawg  digasawg  saint.  Hawd  pery  i  fingam  wylo. 

64  74 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Andras  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Marthin 

A  ddioddefwys  Croesteas!  Breiniol  Sant  i  gyflfredin  Î 

Hhannwys  Daw  nef  a  gafas.  Namyn  Daw  nid  oes  Tefin. 

65  75 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  gwrhywydd,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gwrthefyr 

A  faasai  berchen  swydd  ?  Fendigaid,  doeth  ei  ystyr  ? 

Gnawd  gwedi  trahatramcwydd.  Llinyn  rhy  dynn  hawdd  y  tyrr. 

66  16 

A  glywust  ti  chwedl  Padam  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gwrhir 

Pregethwr  cywir  cadam?  Gwas  Teilaw,  Bardd  iaith  gywir? 

A  wnelo  Dŷn  Daw  ai  barn.  A  wnel  dwyll  ef  a  dwyllir. 

67  77 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Bhydderch  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Teilaw, 
Trydyddhaelgorseddawg  serchi  Pan  ydoedd  yn  penydiaw 
Ghiawd  rhygas  gwedi  rhyserch.    A  Daw  nid  doeth  ymdaraw 

68  78 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Mygotwas  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Bhioged 
Mawr  wybodaa  ym  Marddas !     Gwedy  caffael  Teymged ! 
Ys  drwg  y  ceidw  y  diawl  ei  was.  Ni  chwsg  Duw  pan  ry  wared, 

69  79 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Anarawd,    A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Dyfan 
Tywysawg  doniawg  didlawd  I       Ferthyr  yn  nydd  cyflafan  ? 
Bhaid  wrth    ammhwyll    pwyll  Trech  Duw  na  drwg  ddarogan. 
parawd. 

70  80 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Pen  Gwlad  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Hid 

Yn  rhybuddiaw  pob  anllad  ?  Sant,  oV  Israel  ei  hendid ! 

Haws  llosgi  ty  no**!  adeiliad.  Nid  ynfydrwydd  ond  trallid. 

71  81 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Mabon  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gwynlliw 

Yn  rhoi  addysg  iw  feibion  ?  Fab  Glywis  yn  cyfymliw  ? 

Ond  Duw  nid  chwiliwr  calon.  Cymmliwyll  ag  ynfyd,  nid  gwiw. 

72  82 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Sandde       A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Arthur 
Bryd  Angel  yn  ysgardde  ?  Amherawdr  mawr  Benadur? 

Nid  cadam  ond  Brodyrdde.  Nid  difrawd  on  geuadur. 


256 


PRYDYDDIAETH, 


83 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  j  Fran* 
Fendigaid  wrth  y  Clodfan ! 
Nid  da  ond  Duw  ei  hunan. 

84 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Angar 
Mab  Caw,  Catfilwr  clodgar  ? 
Bid  tonn  calon  gan  alar. 

85 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Tyfodwg 
Sant  o  Flaenau  Morganwg  ? 
Ni  ddaw  da  o  drythyllwg. 

86 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Penwyn, 
Yn  gwrthod  y  medd  melyn  Î 
Nid  anferthwch  ond  meddwyn. 

87 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Bleiddan 
Sant  o  Frodir  Gwladforgan  ? 
Meddu  Pwyll,  meddu'^r  cyfan. 

88 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Bardd 
Ynrhoicyngorcyweithas?  [Glâs. 
Gwell  cariad  y  ci  na'i  gas. 

89 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  BhiwsUlawn 
Yn  athrawiaethu  Bhadlawn ! 
Lie  na  bo  dysg  ni  bydd  dawn. 

90 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gwiawn, 
Dremynwr,  golwg  uniawn  ? 
Duw  cadam  a  fam  pob  iawn. 

91 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Taliesin 
Yn  ymddiddan  a  Myrddin ! 
Gnawd  i  anghall  trachwerthin. 

92 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Goliffer 
Gosgorddfawr,  gwych  ei  nifer  ? 
Cas  pob  gwir  He  nis  carer. 

*  Bran,  ond  odid. 


A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Beano, 
Wrth  bawb  a  gyrchant  atto! 
Bhag  Angau  ni  thyccia  ffo. 

94 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Beigam 
O  Faelor,  wrth  ei  lys&m ! 
Hwyr  cam  ar  foethus  ei  tham. 

95 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Dirynig 
Milwr  doeth  detholedig  Ì 
Digawn  Duw  da  i  onig. 

96 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Mathafitf 
Yn  rhoi  addysg  i  Fab  Car ! 
Hir  bydd  mud  ymmhorth  bydcjar. 

97 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  FBEigan ! 
Gwedi  dangos  ei  ddatgan  I 
Lie  taw  Duw  nid.doeth  yngan. 

98 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Bardd  Gwm 
YneihenaintaHheddwch!  [Llwch 
Dedwydd  a  gar  ddadolwch. 

99 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Glodri, 
Gwedi  Gormes  a  Nidri ! 
Dedwydd  a  gar  ddadoli. 

100 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  HywelGrwm.  ^^ 
Wrth  ei  gydenw  Hywel  Llwm! 
Pan  tery  Duw  tery'^n  drwm. 

101 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Eldad, 
Yn  cynghori  gwyr  ei  wlâd  ? 
Dedwydd,  Dofydd  a'i  rhydd  rhâ«3 

102 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gwgan, 
Gwedi  dianc  oV  ffwdan  ? 
Addaw  mawr  a  rhodd  fechan. 
. — lolo  Morganwg. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  257 

103  113 

A  gl jwaist  ti  chwedl  Gadwaladr,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  ni  wỳl  neb 
Brenin  Cymru  Benbaladr  ?  Air  yiid(ii''n  annoethineb ! 

Ooreu  cloff  yw  cloff  aradr.  Nid  harddwch  ond  cyttundeb. 

104  114 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  melyn,  A  glywaist  tiV  chwedl  rhwng  dau 

Yn  ymddyraith  ai  elyn !  Yn  eiste'n  eu  cornelau ! 

Ooreu  canwyll  pwyll  i  ddŷn.  Ni  chymmydd  Dedwydda  Dadlau. 

105  115 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Comminawd  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Guttyn, 
Gwr  ffiraeth  firwythlawn  ei  geu-  Ni  wyddai  o>  dorth  ba  du'r  me- 

dawd!  nyn? 

Bydd  wrthgrybwyll pwyll parawd.Naill  ai  cadno  ai  llwyn  rhedyn. 

106  116 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Hywel         A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  hen  Awdur 
Arglwydd  Gadam  yn  rhyfel !      A  chwilwys  holl  dyllau  Nattur ! 
Lie  bo  Cariad  nid  ymgel.  Ni  cheir  afal  per  ar  bren  sûr. 

107  117 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Talhaiam  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  Henddyn 
WrthArthuryrthwaywtryddam?WrthArglwyddbalchysgymmyn! 
Namyn  Duw  nid  oes  gadam.       Meddwl  dyn  Daw  ai  terfyn. 

106  118 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Dathan  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  hen  Garadog 
Sant  wedi  colli'*r  cyfan !  Pan  golles  banner  ceiniog  ? 

Duw  yn  anghyfiawn  ni  rann.       Ni  wyr  llawn  gwyn  anghenog. 

109  119 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Oadrawd     A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  hen  frawd, 
Calchfynydd,  fawr  fyfyrdawd  Ì     Am  drin  celfyddyd  barawd  Î 
Goreugwraig,gwraighebdafawd.  Nid  Dosparth  ond  Gwalystawd. 

110  120 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  hen  Wrlais  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gwr  Doeth, 
LleMd  oedd  dau  Bia'n  creglais?   Yn  ymbwyllaw  am  gyfoeth? 
Pob  cyffelyb  a  ymgais.  Ni  Iwydd  a  gaffo  annoeth. 

111  121 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Idwallon     A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Matholwch, 

Hen  wr  llwyd  ar  bwys  ei  ffonn!  A  garai  bob  llonyddwch  ? 

Ag  annoeth  nag  ymryson.  Gwledd  i  bob  Dedwydd  heddwch. 

112  122 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  gwr  by ddysg  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  un  Mwynwas 
Yn  cynghori  rhag  terfysg  ?  Oedd  Frenin  mawr  ei  urddas  ? 

Nag  ymryson  ag  annysg.  Gwledd  i  Gigfrain  Galanas. 


258 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


123  133 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Penllwyd  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Merfyn 
Wrtìi  gyfeillion  ei  aelwyd?  Brenin  Powya  oedd  y  Dŷn! 

Ymborth  pob  Dedwydd  ydfwyd.  Heb  ddechreu  ni  cheir  terfyn. 

124  134 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Myfennydd  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Ghwigan 
Bardd,  llyfreugar  ei  weny dd !      Brenin  clodfawr  Gwladfoigan ! 
Namyn  Duw  nid  madlywydd.      Pob  Trugarog  Duw  o^i  rann. 

125  136 
AglywaisttichwedlagantNonn!  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Elystan 
Mam  Dewi  Sant  ydoedd  honn.    Glodrydd,  doethaf  ei  amean ! 


Nid  ynfyd  ond  ymryson. 

126 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Pryderi 
Doetha  Gwr  yn  cynghori? 
Nid  Doethineb  ond  tewi. 

127 

A  glywaist  ti  a  gant  Maelwg 
Marchog  pellgyrch  ei  olwgî 
Nid  ymgar  y  da  aV  drwg. 

128 
A  glywaist  chwedl  Peredur, 
Ynys  Prydain  Bennadur! 
Calettach  glew  na  Uafn  dur. 

129 


Gwell  rhy  draws  na  rhy  dman. 

136 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Elfyw, 
Gwr  tradoeth  heb  ei  gyfiyw ! 
Eled  rhyw  ar  barth  pa  yw. 

137 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  hen  wr 
Y  He  ni  chafiai  gardawd ! 
A  f 0  a  blawd  a  gaiff  flawd. 

138 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Oybi 
Sant  o  Fôn  wrth  (ab  GÍwigi! 
Nid  anffawd  on  drygioni. 


139 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Lleuddad,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  hen  wr  dauK^i 
Er  Athraw  gwr  anynad !  Athraw  pryffwnt  wybodau! 

Digared  pob  digariad.  Taer  ywV  gwir  am  y  golau. 

130  140 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Dysgyfh-  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  gwr  gei^ci- 

dawd, 
Ar  ei  Osgordd  yn  Bendawd ! 
Goreu  gafael  y  parawd. 

131 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gadell 
Dywysawg,  ni  chaid  ei  well? 
Ni  ddaw  da  o  dra  dichell. 

132 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Anarawd 
Brenin  Gwynedd  Bro  ddidlawd? 
Ni  wỳl  annoeth  ei  ystawd. 


wir 
Perchen  gwybodaeth  gywir ! 
Ni  chydfydd  Doeth  ag  enwir. 

141 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  hen  Urì^B^ 
Escob  doethaf  yn  ei  wlad  J 
Hawdd  cymmod  Ue  bo  cariad. 

142 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  MabMer&yo, 
Wrth  ei  chwaer  yng  nghoed  y 
Nag  ymddiried  i'th  Elyn.  [Glyn! 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  259 

143  152 

\  glywaiflt  ti  chwedl  Meudwy  A  glywaîst  tî   chwedl  gwr  hy- 

Gwynn  bwyll, 

riawd  lie  nid  oedd  llaw^n  estyn !  Wrth  ni  wnai  a  ddylai  pwyll ! 
IJlyd  pob  clawdd  i  Ghurdottyn.      Ni  hir  Iwydd  a  geir  o  dwyU. 

144  153 

\.  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Oyfarwydd  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Derwydd 
\.  weles  lawer  digwydd  ?  [wydd.  A  weles  ansawdd  Gwledydd ! 
jrwell  crefflb  nag  arllawd  Argl-  Odid  o  fil  un  Dedwydd. 

145  154 

A.  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Difwg  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  gwr  cymmen 

Bardd  hen  Forgan  Morganwg!  A  wyddai  syrth  Tynghedfen! 

Na  chab  y  da  arhoed  y  drwg.  Hiraeth  pob  un  ei  Awen. 

146  155 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Einion  Sais  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Cadair, 
Am  ddoethineb  mawr  ei  gais !      Ymhob  atteb  byrr  ei  air! 
Ynfyd  ymryson  a^i  bais  Ysgafh  Iwyth  a  glud  y  gwaith* 

147  156 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  gwr  doeth,  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  dan  y  dail 
Wrth  a  goUes  ei  gyfoethî  Hen  wr  doeth  ni  chaid  ei  ail? 

Ni  llwydd  golud  i  annoeth.  Pob  Dedwydd  Duw  ai  arail. 

148  157 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Dafydd       A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  caeth. 
Brophwyd,  wrth  wr  annedwydd?  Wedi  gorfod  pob  hiraeth ! 
Ymgais  a  Duw  tra  chei  Ddydd.  Duw  da  nid  adwna  a  wnaeth. 

149  158 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gwiawn      A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Ceredig 
Bach  yn  dangaws  deddf  gyiSawn?  Brenin  doeth  detholedig ! 
lawn  pob  iawn  lie  bo  lawn  Pawb  ai  droed  ar  syrthiedig. 

150  159 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  hen  Bryd-  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  gwr  golau, 
A  fu  Athraw  yn  ei  ddydd?  [ydd,  Yn  treiglo'i  fyfyrdodau ! 
Eieiniar  Celwydd  Oywilydd.         Uwch  pob  dim  cofier  angau. 

151  160 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Gwaith  Foed  A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  leuan 
Lie  ni  charai  hir  addoed  Ebostol  gloyw  ei  ddatgan  ? 

Hwya'i  oed  aed  bella  i>  Coed.      Cael  rhad  Duw  cael  y  cyfan, 

Ag  felly  terfyna  wythugain  o  chwedlau'*r  Doethion  a  doeth  dỳn 
in  deallo,  ag  a  elo  y  ganthynt. 

*  Gwair,  ond  odid,  herwydd  synwyr  a  phrifodl. — Ab  Iolo. 
2l 


260 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


LLYMA  CHWEDLAU  DOETfflON  ERAILL,  I  DDOETH 
AU  DEALLO. 


1. 

A  GLYWAisT  ti  chwedl  y  Fran 
YndaroganTynghedfen  ?[wenn, 
Llaw  Ian  diogel  ei  pherchen. 

2. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  Eos 
Yn  y  Ooedydd  yr  hafnos?  [ddos. 
Gnawd  uwch  benn  Dedwydd  di- 

3. 
A  glywaîst  ti  chwedl  y  Pelau, 
Gyda'^i  adar  yn  chwarauî 
Ymhob  rhith  y  daw  Angau. 

4. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  fach  y  Dryw 
Yn  y  nyth  UeMd  oedd  yn  byw  ? 
Elid  rhyw  ar  barth  pa  yw. 

6. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  Hebog 
Yn  ymddiddan  a  Budrog? 
Gyfaill  Blaidd  Bugail  diog. 

6. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Dylluan 
Yn  y  coed  wrthi  i  hunan  ? 
Dedwydd  digon  ei  amcan. 

7. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  aderyn 
O  ganol  y  llwyn  celyn  ? 
Ni  ddaw  da  hir  arofyn. 

8. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Morgrugyn 
Yn  y  gaeaf  o'i  dyddyn  ? 
Bid  gwsg  Haf  gaeaf  newyn. 

9. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  ysguthan 
Ar  goedydd  yn  He  cwynfan  ? 
Gossymdaith  Dỳn  D.uw  ai  rann. 


10. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  fwyalch 
Yn  ymguddiaw  rhag  y  Gwalch! 
Nid  oes  ond  amser  i  Falch. 

11. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Bi 
Le  Mdoedd  nyth  iV  chysgodi ! 
Trech  llafur  na  diriedi. 

12. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Ghrngiar 
Wrth  y  Barcut  ym  mlaen  dar! 
Doeth  a  Diriaid  nid  ymgar. 

13. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Uyffiin 
Yn  ymgaru  ai  Maban  t 
Car  pob  rhyw  rhith  ei  hunan. 

14. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Ghith 
Am  y  llygod  yn  chwiltath! 
Gnawd  i  bob  rhyw  ei  gydUEtth. 

15. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Mew, 
Yn  ymddiosg  ai  henflew ! 
Ymhob  gwlad  y  megir  glew. 

16. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  Enid 
Yn  y  gwyddel  rhag  ymlid ! 
Drwg  pechawd  oi  hir  erlid. 

17. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  colwynBe- 
Gwedi  dyfod  dydd  achwyn  Î 
Nid  twyU  ondGweniaith  morw^^i. 

18. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  PjBg 
Wrth  ymdrapholl  ymhlithgwrifl;;^ 
Ys  trech  nattur  nag  addysg. 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


261 


19. 
A.  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  ŵydd 
Gh^edi  gweled  pob  damcwydd  Î 
N^id  jmgais  diriaid  ai  swydd. 

20. 
A.  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Fran, 
\i  bren  uchaf  y  Berllan ! 
Swell  rhy  draws  na  rhy  drüan. 

21. 
\  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Gegin 
Yn  ymddadwrdd  am  ddatrin ! 
S'a  fid  dy  wraig  dy  gyfrin. 

22. 
\  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Barcud 


27. 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Uinos 
Yn  ymborth  ar  Addon  rhôs  ? 
Dyfydd  dihirvraith  aros. 


A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  hedydd 

Yn  yr  wybren  foreddydd  ? 

Ni  all  drwg  drygu  Dedwydd. 
29. 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  wylan 

Wrth  ei  chwaer  yn  ymddiddan  ? 

A  rwy  gwyn  ni  ry  gwynfan. 
30. 

A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Peneuryn 
VVrthddyn  ysglyfgarglewddnid?  A  ganai  ^ng  ngŵydd  y  Dyffryn ! 
Moch  fydd  barn  pob  ehud.  A  lygrwys  Duw  a  lygrwys  Dŷn. 

23.  31. 

\  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  FronfraithA  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Gog, 
Wrth  wr  a  rodiaiV  diffaith !         Wrth  ganu  ar  fore  gwlithog  ? 
Pia  fid  gelyn  dy  gydymaith.         Anhydyn  pob  afrywiog. 

24.  32. 

\  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  hwch      A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  Bronrhuddyn 

Y  lie  bu  er  yn  Blentyn? 
Na  chais  Ddiriaid  yn  ei  dyddyn.* 

33. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Mochyn 
Yn  ymswyn  rhagCampBryntyn? 


Yn  ymloi  mewn  llaid  a  Uwch  1 
\iiferth  a  gar  anferthwch. 

25. 
A.  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  Ci 
Yn  y  clawdd  wedi  cloffi ! 
Grwybydder  bam  cyn  crogi. 

26. 
\  glywaist  ti  chwedl  yr  Eryr 
Grwedi  treiglaw  pob  tymyr  ? 


Nid  ffiaidd  ond  y  Meddwyn. 

34. 
A  glywaist  ti  chwedl  y  mau 
Gwedi  datgan  pob  chwedlau  ? 


Nid  rhwystr  un  gwaith  ei  ystyr.  Nid  doeth  ond  dethol  y  gorau. 


Ag  felly  terfyna  hynn  o  chwedlau V  Doethion. 

A  gwynn  ei  fyd  y  Dyn  a  fo  mor  ddoeth  ar  Mochyn. 


•  Cais  Ddedwydd  yn  ei  dyddyn. — Felly  mewn  Haw  ddiweddar  yn  yr  hen 
lyfr. — lolo  Moi^ganwg. 


262 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


ENGLYNION* 


Gh)aEUGWArrH  on  dyn 
Gwarchadw  ty  a  thyddyn 

Goreugwaith  un  mab  mad 
Syberwyd  i  fam  a  thad. 

Goreugwaith  un  mercli 
Ystyriaw^n  dda  pa  annerch 

Goreugwaith  un  gwr 
Ystyr  a  ddylai  gwladwr 

Gt)reugwaith  un  gwraig 
Syw  ar  ei  chorph  ai  saig. 

Goreugwaith  un  dydd 
Dala  Tifedd  wrth  fedydd. 

Ag  felly  terfyna.< 


Goreugwaith  ar  y  cyfan 
Dedwydd  ymgais  ag  amcan. 

Goreugwaith  Bardd 
Arail  molianus  hardd. 

Goreugwaith  Arglwydd 
Ymdrefn  yn  gyfiawn  ei  swydd 

Goreugwaith  pob  call 
Ymoludaw  yn  neall 

Goreugwittth  pob  doeth, 
Dangos  yn  neddf  pa  goeth. 

Goreugwaith  pob  gwybod 
Ghwiliaw  ei  galon  ai  hadnaboA. 
"O  Lyfr  Esaia  Powel. 


ENGLYNION  Y  GORÜGIAÜ 


Sef  y  Bardd  Glas  6*t  Gtuiair  ai  cant 


1. 

GoRuc  Menw  ap  y  Teirgwaedd 
Gof  glud  ar  a  gly  wai  floedd. 
A  chyd  a  chadw  cyfarwydd. 

2. 
Gorug  Einigan  Gtiwr  hen 
Llythyru  llafar  addien 
A  dosparth  dispwyll  Awen. 

3. 
Goruc  Tydain  Tad  Awen 
Oi  fyfyrdawd  fawr  aren, 
Glof  ar  gof  gan  gerdd  gymhen. 


Gorug  Bhufawn  ar  gledrad 
A  cherdd  a  chof  caffiieliad 
lawnder  greddf  ar  ddeddf  cyw 

6. 
OrOTxic  Gwron  gyfreuau 
A  threfn  lefn  ar  lef  odlaa 
A  chyfawd  gorddawd  goreuad^^' 

6. 
€h)ruc  Hugadam  Qjmmhnii^^ 
Ar  Gymry  Ynys  Prydain 
I  ddyffryd  o  ddeffro  Bain 


y. 


*  Maent  yn  ddicnw  yn  rhagysgrif  fy  Nliad. — Ab  Iolo. 


i 


PEYDYDDIAETH. 


263 


3  Prydain  ab  Aedd  Mawr 
lane  ystre  gyüsu-lawr 
ganBenraith  gjmmrodawr. 

8. 
c  Arthen  ap  Arth  Hen 
fiwjr  Esgar  ac  asgen, 
i  ynghad  jnghadr  aerfen. 

9. 
c  Dyfhwal  Dâr  moelmut 
:  anneddf  a  firawdd  ehut 
feu  a  cherddeu  cydlut 

10. 
0  Ffermael  ap  Ffêr  Gwyllt 
lofiad  Gwelleifau  Gwellt 
•dd  yn  àr  Dâr  DryoUt. 

11. 
c  Coll  ap  CoUfrewi 
;  amgyrch  amgymphelri 
n  ar  a  chyferi. 

12. 
c  Beli  mawr  mynawg 
lyhogan*  wr  bannawg 
'  meirch  a  threfneu  march- 
awg. 

13. 
c  Greidiawl  lynghesawc 
m  mawr  mor  ewynawc, 
Igi  gwelwgan  yn  eichiawc. 

14. 
c  Alawn  Fardd  Prydain, 
xieu  cleu  clodysgein, 
cyd  celfyddyd  cyfrein. 

15. 
c  Gaswallawn  wallofiad 
ratrin  ar  EstraWn  Gad 
ared  gwerin  a'u  Gwlad. 


16. 
Goruo  Bran  ap  Llyr  Llediaith, 
Rhag  drwg  o  dranc  yn  Niffaith, 
Ffydd  ynghrist  ynghrair  dyraith. 

17. 
Goruc  Coel  fab  OyUin  Fardd 
Drefn  gynneddf  ar  gain  Osgordd, 
GolycLawd  a  gwawd  Gwengerdd. 

18. 
Goruc  Manawydan  ddoeth, 
Gwedi  galar  a  Bar  poeth, 
Gaer  Esgym  Oeth  ac  Annoeth. 

19. 
Gt)ruc  Lleirwg  gwâr  unben 
Fab  Coel  fab  Cyllin  Aren, 
Gyfryngeu  a  Llyfreu  Lien 

20. 
Goruo  Gwdion  ap  Don  Ben 
Gten  gynghor  Mor  ap  Morien 
Ar  Dir  Gwynedd  Dynghedfen. 

21. 
Goruc  Sefyr  Udd  waith  Cain 
Ar  draws  dros  Ynys  Prydain, 
Rhag  Gwerin   Gythrawl  gwawl 
Tain. 

22. 
Goruc  (Jarmon  Gwr  mwyn  ef 
Waith  cyfrain  cain  cyfystref. 
Saint  yng  Nghôr  yngnghaer  addef . 

23. 
Goruc  Oynwyd  Oynwydion 
Cynnwyre  cain  Ddefnogion, 
Ag  ar  Gorau  Deddfau  doethion. 

24. 
Gt)ruc  Manawydan  ddoeth 
Rhag  Twyll  Brad  Gwlad  a  Chyf- 

oeth 
Garchar  Pyd  Oeth  ag  Annoeth 


*  I.  e.  Mynogan. — (lolo) 


264 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


26. 
Goruc  Urien  fab  Cynfarch 
Yn  Aberllyw  lladd  dihafarch 
Ugeinmil  Gwyddyl  Gwr  March, 

26. 
Goruc  Morfudd  Merch  Urien 
Gwerinaw  gwybodau  Lien ; 
A  dangaws  deuparth  Awen. 

27. 
G^ruc  Owaîn  ap  Urien 
Yn  Aberllychwr  rhag  Asgen 
Bhaith  Bam  a  Charn  a  Ghaer 
Wenn. 


29. 
Goruc  Llew  ap  Gynfarch  Fardd 
Orwyddawd  ar  blagawd  Hwrdd 
Yn  addawd  Lien  a  chef  Gerdd. 

30. 
Goruc  Arthur  amherawdr 
Eirf  ar  bais  Sais  yn  ffoawdr, 
Ger  Liu  ef  Goreu  Llywiawdr. 

31. 
Goruc  Bhodri  ap  Merfyn 
Frych  ei  wyneb,  Gwr  terwyn ; 
Gymmrawd  ar  Gymru  Deriyn 


28.  32. 

Goruc  Plennydd  ab  Hu  hydr      Goruc  Hywel  Fab  Gadell, 
Arwain  coel  cylmau  cymydr,       Da  oedd,  ac  ni  chaid  eî  well 
Awgrym  cof  cyfawd  ar  glydr.      Rhaith  a  chyfraith  ar  Freithell 

Y  Bardd  Glas  oV  Gadair  ai  cant. 

Bu  farw  Alfred  yn  899.    Gwnaeth  Hywel  ei  Gyfraith  yn  927. 
(xallasai'*r  Bardd  Glas  fyw  i  ganu  Clod  a  chof  Hywel  Dda. 

lOLO  MOBOANWG. 


GORUGIAU  ETTO, 


GoRuo  Hywel  fab  Cadell 
Hynaf  Rodri  Ystafell 
DdosparthBrawda  defawdgwell. 

Gorug  Bran  ap  Llyr  Llediaith, 
Gorddawd  arawd  yn  Nifaith, 
A  chyfawd  rhawd  rhag  anraith. 

Goruc  Cystenin  Oarneu, 
Deddf  yng  ngreddf  anrhyfertheu, 
A  g^'oleith  gweith  gorwyeu 


Goruc  Gtarmon  mab  Bhedic 
Arwedd  ar  wŷr  eglwysic 
A  ffydd  yn  Nydd  neuedic. 

Goruc  Mor  ap  Monen  Fraint 
Ar  Dir  Cymru  gyfurddaint 
Arad  yn  rhydd  a  fiydd  Saint 

Goruc  Garmon  Sant  Gymri, 
A  Braint  Saint  ag  Eglwysi, 
A  llaith  Uawd  Llyr  Merini 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  265 


LLYMA  BROFFWYDOLIAETH  Y  CORONOG  FAB* 

1.  GoRONoo  Faban  medd  Aneunn 

Wrth  Seiniau  Oylfeirdd  Cor  Llanfeithin, 
Ganol  ei  oes  ef  nertha^i  wenn 
Ao  yn  y  diwedd  y  bydd  Frenin. 

2.  Coronog  Faban  yn  y  dydd  cynta 
A  gant  ganon  yn  y  gwenydfa 
Ac  Awen  gogoniant  o'*r  uchelfa 
Gbn  dardd  bydoedd  a  byw  Adda 

Ckinfloedd  Bydoed  (mewn  Uyfr  arall) — H. 

3.  Coronog  Faban  goreu  dawn  Deön 
A  Ddyfu  0  nef  er  nawdd  dynion 
Yn  arwedd  ei  addysg  yn  oen  tirion, 
Ac  yna  a  las  gan  lu  luddewon, 

4.  Coronog  Faban  penna  yw  lesu, 
0  dir  Gogelau  y  daw  i  Gymni, 
Gwynfyd  geli  pan  weler  Teulu, 

A  meibion  dyddon  dysg  weinyddu. 

5.  Coronog  Faban  Uyma  beth  rhyfedd 
gan  ddyfod  cawod  a  gil  Tr  gogledd, 

Ef  gyll  yn  Lloegr  Arglwyddiaeth  mawredd, 
Ac  etto  Brenin  fydd  e'*n  y  diwedd. 

6.  Coronog  Faban  medd  Barddoni 
A  nertha  Brydain  o  gefn  Gweilgi, 
Pan  ddel  Llynges  daer  hyd  Gaer  Ceri, 
Yno  gwae  Saeson  a'u  hoU  gymhelri. 

7.  Coronog  Faban  a  dynnir  ei  adanedd 

0  waelod  Lloegr  hyd  Uwybr  y  gogledd, 
Ond  un  o'i  esgyll  a  dyf  yn  y  diwedd, 
Yn  nheymas  y  beilchion  a  bydd  rhyfedd. 


♦  0  Lyfr  Mr.  Sanders,  o'r  Nortwn. 


266  PRYDYDMAETH. 

8.  Ooronog  Faban  medd  hen  Dderwyddon 
A  wna  ryfeddod  ym  mysg  luddewon, 
Pair  iddjBt  gredu  fal  Oristnogion 

I  Grist  a  goUes  waed  ei  galon. 

9.  Coronog  Faban  medd  doethion  Dwyrain, 
A  dry  dros  foroedd  i  diroedd  Deain, 

I  ddwyn  tair  Coron,  cariad  ddarwain, 
Ac  i  ddwyn  urddas  i  Ynys  Prydain. 

10.  Coronog  Faban  credwn  yn  ddiau, 
Yn  Nhwr  Bablon  a  gyfyd  Eglwysau, 
Brenin  Ooronog  fydd  ef  heb  ammau, 
Ar  bawb  fe  orfydd  yn  ddiar&u. 

11.  Coronog  Faban  a  orchfyga, 

O'r  mor  gogledd  hyd  Tir  Iwdaia, 
Pob  cenedl  ai  cais  am  y  cynta, 
Gwae  Feilch  oM  ddyfod  i  fawr  ddifa. 

12.  Coronog  Faban  gwediV  gadfel 

Er  moroedd  a  thiroedd  a  thra  rhyfel, 
A  glywir  yn  glaer  a  llais  Archangel 
Yn  Nyflfryn  Euron  ar  y  tir  isel. 

13.  Coronog  Faban  medd  y  Barddas, 
a  eilw  yn  galonog  oV  galanas, 
Yn  ol  caethyd  cyfyd  ei  urddas, 
Hyd  glawr  y  byd  y  bydd  gwynias, 

14.  Coronog  Faban  â  dan  irgyll 

A  Chaerau  Cedym  y  pair  yn  gandryll, 

Fe  gyfyd  Baner  yn  ei  sefyll, 

Gwae  Arglwydd  wrth  gledd.  Pen  y  Pebyll, 

15.  Coronog  Faban  gan  gaseion 

A  sengir  yn  llaid  a  chaiff  drallodion, 

Ac  yn  y  diwedd,  dial  ar  Alon, 

A  thra  bo  byth  bydd  Frenin  ar  ddynion. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  267 

16.  Coronog  Faban  ceir  ef  gyferbyn 
Angerdd  y  Uew  a  Uif  dyffryiii 
Ac  am  ei  orsedd,  fal  y  perthyn, 
Crwyn  ei  fyd  o  fab  a  fo'ii  ei  ganlyn. 

Aneurin  Gwawdrydd  ai  Cant. 


LYNION  ERAILL  TR  CORONOG  FABAN,  A  GANT 
lONAS  ATHRAW  MYNYW. 

1.  Coronog  Faban  medd  y  Beirddion 
A  ddaeth  or  nef  i  wlad  luddewon. 
Ac  yno  ei  eriid  a  Ilid  creolon, 

A'*i  ladd  ar  y  grog  rhwng  dau  ladi*on. 

2.  Coronog  Faban  Wawr  y  trydedydd 
A  Gyfodes  oV  bedd  yn  ysplennydd, 
Ac  yn  ei  lawnoed  ef  a  ddyrydd 

I  bawb  oV  holl  fyd  gred  a  bedydd 

3.  Coronog  Faban  gwedi  mawr  draha, 
Medd  leuan  Broffwyd  drei  y  passia 
ef  a  gaiff  orfod  ar  bob  tyrfa, 

Ac  ar  frenhinoedd  Byd  bydd  y  peuna. 

4.  Coronog  Faban  a  gaiff  mawr  urddas 
Medd  Bardd  o  broffwyd  a  elwir  Gildas, 
yn  Bhufain  dir  ef  a  wna  farddas 

Ai  gasogion  a  syrth  mewn  anras. 

5.  Coronog  Faban  a  gaiff  ei  gyfarch 

gan  werin  ym  Mhrydain  er  cael  ammharch 
Ef  ddianc  o  ddwylaw  fal  hen  Lywarch, 
Fal  y  diengis  lonas  o  fol  y  morfarch 

6.  Coronog  Faban  medd  Taliesin 
Ac  y  lleir  yn  llyfrau  Merddyu, 
Gwae  a  gant  ragddaw  ruthr  ei  elin 
Ban  dyddwg  yn  wlad  ei  gad  gyflin. 

2  m 


268  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

7.  Ooronog  Faban  medd  Ernigas 

Hen  Brofiwyd  yr  Alban  a  fydd  alius 
Gwisg  yn  ei  leunctid  goron  ddestlas, 
Ag  yn  ei  henaint  bydd  lor  dawnos. 

8.  Goronog  Faban  medd  Bardd  arall, 
Mydonwy  Escob,  a  fydd  rÿall 

Ef  yn  ei  leuenctid  a  las  yn  ddiball 
Ef  yn  ei  lawnoed  a  ladd  a  bwyall 

9.  Coronog  Faban  gwediV  gorymfel 

Ar  foroedd  a  thiroedd  a  thwrw  rhyfel, 

Ef  a  gleddir  tra  thndiaa  medd  yr  Archangel 

Yn  Nyffiyn  Josaphat  yn  y  tir  isel. 

10.  Ooronog  Fab^ui  credwch  yn  hylwydd, 
A  ddwg  y  groes  gyda  Sancteiddrwydd, 
Ac  yn  ei  amser  ni  ludd  un  aflwydd 
Efe  ymddengys  yn  wir  ac  yn  ebrwydd. 

11.  Coronog  Faban  a  gyfyd  Dduw  Owenar 
Yn  erbyn  Gog  Magog  a'u  holl  nifer 
Yno  gwaeV  Sarsin  a  fo'*n  ei  amser, 

A  gwae  battela  dan  ei  faner. 

12.  Ooronog  Faban  a  gyfyd  lynges, 
Medd  Sibli  ddoeth  a  fo  Frenhines, 
Ac  iV  Twrciaid  gwna'r  mawr  afles, 
A  chilio  rhagddo  nid  oes  neges. 

13.  Coronog  Faban  ar  dir  a  moroedd 
A  geidw  yn  gadam  ei  holl  luoedd 
Er  llid  yr  anghred  a^u  niferoedd, 

Ag  yn  y  diwedd  a'n  dwg  iV  nefoedd.  a/,  an  dwg  4^^ 
lonas  Athraw  M  ynywai  Cant. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  269 


LYNION  ETTO  m  CORONOG  FABAN  A  GANT  RHYS 
GOGH  O'R  RYRI. 

1.  GoBONOo  Faban  medd  Ehys  oV  Eyri, 
A  ddenfyn  Uynges  i  Aberteifi, 

Ag  yn  Swydd  Benfro  y  bydd  gweiddi 
Pan  ddel  ai  wyr  i  dir  Pryderi. 

2.  Coronog  Faban  medd  merddin  Emrys 
A  gwr  a  elwir  lohanis  Coüescenm^ 
Yn  ei  leuenctid  y  bydd  gwr  ofnus 

Ac  yn  ei  henaint  y  bydd  gwr  grymmus, 

3.  Coronog  Faban  a  ddenfyn  iV  Ooedgyll 
Ac  at  y  gwyr  sy'^n  cadw'^r  Cestyll, 

ac  yna  codi  Banerau'^n  eu  sefyll, 

Gwae  Arglwydd  Bliaglan  pan  wel  y  Pebyll. 

4.  Coronog  Faban  pan  ddel  ei  henaint, 
Drwy  nerth  lesu,  pen  yr  hoU-Saint 
A  fyn  gyfiawnder  iV  holl  geraint, 

Er  ei  fod  heddyw  yn  Salw  ddichwaint. 

ddifraint,  in  al. 

6.  Coronog  Faban  a  dynn  iV  mawredd. 

0  waelod  Lloegr  y  cyrch  Yt  Gogledd, 
Ef  yw  un  asgell  a  gyfyd  o  Wynedd, 

1  ynnill  Prydain  hynn  fydd  ryfedd. 

6.  Coronog  Faban  credwch  yn  ddiau, 

A  ddaw  a'i  lynges  i  Aberdaugleddau, 
yno  crỳn  Lloegr  pan  clywir  chwedlau 
Am  un  nis  bawdd  dwr  deymas  faddeu. 

7.  Coronog  Faban  a  gaiff  Dir  Prydain 

Ei  enw  adwaenir  ym  Mharlant  Llundain, 
Trwy  gyngyr  saith  iaith  a  saith  ugain, 
GwaeV  Sais  a''i  clvw  onid  ar  ddamwain. 


270  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

8.  Coronog  Faban  medd  Doethion  Khufain 
Yn  ol  amser  lesu  mab  Bhiain, 
Mil  pumcant  deg  a  phedwar  ugain 
a  ddial  draha  gwyr  Tre  Llundain, 

Rhys  Groch  oV  Ryri  ai  cant.  (QnsBre  Î) 


Y  Caniadau  rhagflaenol  a  gefais  o  Lyfr  Huw  Haws,  y  Bardd 
Coch  0  Fon  yn  niwedd  y  flwyddyn  1771. 

Fe  allai  mai  gwir  waith  Aneurin  ywV  gan  gyntaf,  a^r  Testan 
mewn  rhann  i'w  trallodion  *ac,  agos,  dadymchweliad  yr  Eglmrya 
Gristnogawl  yn  Ynys  Prydain  dan  ormes  y  Saeson.  Ac  mewn 
rhann  darogan  ei  hadfywiad  ymhen  hir  o  amser  yn  Ynys  Pryd- 
ain, ai  gwaith  yn  goresgyn  yr  holl  fyd ;  nid  oes  yn  honn  nem- 
mawr  neu  ddim  o'r  ofergoelion  pabaidd ;  ac  am  y  meddyliao,  ni 
pherthynant  i  oesoedd  diweddarach  nac  Anenrin,  ag  nid  oes  yn- 
ddi  ddim  yn  y  byd  a  ellir  meddwl  a  barnu  ei  fod  wedi  ei  ysgrifena 
ymhlaid  ac  er  annogaeth  a  chefnoctid  i  unrhyw  Fam  neu  ragfiim, 
i  unrhyw  Drefn  a  Dosparth,  mewn  na  gwlad  nag  Eglwys  yn  un- 
rhyw oes  ac  amser  canlynawl.  Hefyd,  nid  ywV  Bardd,  pwy  byn- 
nag  ydoedd,  ai  Aneurin  ai  arall,  yn  cymmeryd  amo  i  brophwydaw 
am  ddim  yn  y  byd  ond  a  geffir  yn  amlwg  yn  yr  ysgrythyrau,  Sef 
er  maint  y  rhwystr  ar  amgudd  a  ddelai  ar  Gristnogaeth,  yr  ad- 
gyfodai  yn  y  diwedd,  megis  o  farw  yn  fyw ;  ac  os  felly,  ceid  ei 
weled  yn  ddilys  yn  Ynys  Prydain,  yn  gystal  ac  mewn  gwledydd 
eraill ;   canys  ynnîU  yr  holl  fyd  yn  y  diwedd  a  wna>  Grefydd 
Gristnogawl  ai  hegwyddorion  tangnefgar.     Y  mae  iaith  a  mydr  y 
gan,  hefyd,  yn  cyttuno**n  dda  ddigon  ac  Iaith  amser  Aneurin.  Ac 
nid  oes  yn  hon,  nac  yn  un  oV  amgylchiadau  eraill  a  nodais,  a  ludd 
i  Aneurin  y  Gan  hon.  Er  hynny  nid  analledig  iddi  fod  yn  waith 
mwy  diweddar.  Ni  fyddwn  haerllug  ymhlaid  y  naill  na^r  llall  oV 
ddwy  farn.  A  fo  cyfarwydd  a'r  hen  Farddoniaeth  Gymraeg,  bamed 
hid  eithaf  ei  wybod  ai  ddeall ;  nid  iawn  i  amgen  agor  ei  fin. 

Gildas  ap  y  Caw  ai  cant  medd  rhau  Lyfrau.  Brawd  Aneurin 
oedd  Gildas,  medd  ambell  hen  Lyfr  achau,  eithr  yr  un,  yn  fy 
mam  i,  oedd  Aneurin  a  Gildas,  canys  yr  un  peth  yn  y  Saesoneg 
yw  Gildas  ac  yw  Aneurin  yn  Gymraeg,  a  Chrysostom  yn  y 
Groeg.  Y  mae  rhai  amgylchiadau  eraill,  pe  bai  He  yma  iddynt,  a 
brofant  yn  lied  amlwg  hynn  o  beth. 

Am  yr  ail  gan,  hawdd  y  dichon  mai  gwaith  lonas,  Athraw 
Mynyw,  yw  hi.     Ni  ellais  erioed  ddeall  i''m  boddlondeb,  pa  amser 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  271 

ydoedd  lonas  yn  byw,  fy  mam  yw  mai  ynghylch  y  flwyddyn 
1200  yr  oedd  ef.  Hoff  oedd  gantho,  yn  ei  gerddi,  ddynwared 
Taliesin,  ac  eraill  or  hen  feirdd.  Yn  ei  gan  ef,  lem  Grist^  fal 
ynghan  Aneurin,  ywV  Coronog  Faban.  Amcan  y  Gan  hon  yw 
annog  i  ymarfogi  yn  y  Crwysgadau  (Crusades)  yn  erbyn  y  Sar- 
siniaid  ar  Twrdaid.  Yr  oedd  Athraw  Mynyw,  debygid,  yn  ryw- 
faint  o  ysgolhaig ;  y  mae  yn  ei  gerddi  rai  Meddyliau  Ued  anghyff- 
redin,  yn  enwedig  i^n  hamseroedd  ni. 

Dywedir  mai  Gwaith  Bhys  Goch  oV  Yri  ywV  drydydd  Gan  ; 
nid  annhebyg  i  wir  hynny.  Nid  mwyach  lem  Gri$ty  eithr  Harri, 
larll  Bhiflmwnt,  neu  yn  hyttrach  ei  hynaif,  Owain  Tudur,  o  Fon, 
yw  ei  Goronog  Faban  ef.  Yn  amser  Rhys  Goch,  yr  oedd  gwybod- 
aeth  grefyddol  ac  ysgrythurol,  mor  isel  ei  sawdd  ynghymru,  fal  y 
gellir  barnu'^n  dêg  ddigon,  nad  oedd  hen  Fardd  yr  Yri  yn  deall 
achos  ac  amcan  caniadau  Aneurin  ac  lonas  Mynyw.  Gymmerer 
hynn,  bydded  a  fynno,  yn  lie  meddwl,  neu  ddychymmyg,  yn  hyt- 
trach na'm  bam,  yn  hynn  o  beth. 

Y  maeV  Tair  Can  uchod  wedi  eu  cyraraysgu,  neu  eu  cym- 
mhlethu,  yn  un,  mewn  llawer  Uyfr ;  ac  ynddynt  fwy  neu  lai  o 
ddiffygion  a  chamsynniadau,  fal  y  gwelir,  mewn  rhan,  yn  y 
Copiau  canlynol. — (lolo  Morganwg.) 


AWDL  Y  CORONOG  FABAN* 

1.  Coronog  Faban  medd  Taliesin 
A  ddarlleir  yn  llyfrau  Merddin, 
Ynghanol  ei  oes  ef  nertha  Werin 

Ac  yn  niwedd  ei  oes  ef  a  fydd  Brenin. 

2.  Coronog  Faban  a  gyfyd  Dduw  gwener 
Yn  erbyn  Gog  Magog  ai  holl  nifer 
Ac  a  dynn  battelu  o  dan  ei  fanner 
Yno  gwaeV  Sais  a  fo''n  ei  amser. 

3.  Coronog  Faban  penna  yw  lesu 

0  dir  y  Gogledd  y  daw  i  Gymru, 

Gwynfyd  Elise  pan  welir  teulu, 

A  meibion  Gruffudd  ac  wyrion  Dyddgu. 

♦  O  Lyfr  Mr.  Williams,  Llanrhwst. 


272  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

4.  Coronog  Faban  llyma  beth  rhyfedd 
Bhag  ofn  cafod  ef  a  gilia  Tr  Gogledd, 

Fe  gyll  yn  Lloegr  Arglwyddiaeth  ryfedd, 
Ac  etto  Brenin  fydd  e**!!  y  diwedd. 

5.  Coronog  Faban  credwn  yn  ddiau, 
Y  daw  Uynges  i  Aberdaugleddau, 

Yna  y  cryn  Lloegr  pan  glywer  chwedlao, 
A**!  ynys  bawdd  dwr  Deymas  maddaa. 

6.  Coronog  Faban  medd  proffwydi 

a  ddaw  i  Brydain  dros  gefn  Gweilgi 

Pan  ddel  llyngea  daer  i  Gaergybi. 

Tna  gwae^r  Saeson  ai  holl  gwmpeini    gymhebri,  i 

7.  Coronog  faban  a  dynnir  adanedd 

0  waelod  Lloegr  hyd  y  gogledd, 
Ond  un  o'i  esgyll  a  geidw  Grwynedd 

Ac  yn  nheymas  y  beilchion  hyn  sy  ryfedd. 

S.Coronog  faban  medd  Henrico 
Hen  brophwyd  yr  Alban  a  fudd  gall^^s 
Ac  yn  eu  ieuenctid  y  goron  ddystlẁs 
Ac  yn  ei  henaint  a  fydd  ddown^s 

9.  Coronog  faban  medd  prophwyd  arall 
Mettonys  Esgob  a  fa  rygall, 
Ac  yn  eu  ieuenctid  ef  a  ladd  a  bwyall, 
Ac  yn  ei  henaint  ef  a  ladd  yn  ddiball. 

10.  Coronog  faban  a  gyfyd  Llynges, 
Medd  Sibli  ddoeth  a  fu  Frenhines, 
Ac  iV  Twrciaid  ef  a  wna  afles, 

a  chilio  rhagddo  nid  oes  neges. 

11.  Coronog  faban  medd  Apostolion, 

A  wna  rhyfeddod  ym  mysg  yr  luddewon. 
Ef  a  bair  iddynt  gredu  fel  Cristnogion 

1  Grist  golli  gwaed  ei  galon. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  273 

]2.Goronog  Faban  medd  doethion  Bhufain 
A  à  dros  for  i  dir  y  Dwyrain, 
I  ddwyn  tair  Goron  ef  fydd  ar  ddamwain 
Ac  i  ddwyn  urddas  i  Ynys  Prydain. 

13.  Goronog  faban  a  gaiff  mawr  urddas 
Medd  hen  broSwyd  a  elwir  Oildas, 
Tn  Rhofain  tir  ef  a  wna  urddas, 
Ai  gasogion  a  syrth  mewn  anras. 

14.  Goronog  faban  gwedi  mawr  draha, 
Medd  loannes  drei  y  passia 

Ef  a  gaiff  gorfod  hyd  Ghierdroea, 

Ac  yn  mysg  Brenhinoedd  ef  a  fnái  penna. 

15.  Goronog  faban  yn  ddiammau, 

Yn  Nhwr  Babilon  a  gyfyd  Eglwysau 

Brenin  coronog  fydd  yn  ddiammau 

OwaeV  Twrc  a^r  Sarsiniaid  pan  ddel  heb  ammau. 

16.  Goronog  faban  a  gaiff  ei  gyfarch, 
rhag  ofh  i  Loegr  gaffael  ammharch, 
fe  ddianc  o  ddwylo  hil  Lwarch, 

fel  y  diengis  Sionas  o  fol  y  morfarch. 

17.  Goronog  faban  wedi  mawr  drafel, 

Dros  foroedd  a  thiroedd  a  chwedi  rhyfel, 
fo  ai  clywir  medd  yr  Archangel, 
Yn  Nyffryn  Siossifath  yn  y  tir  isel. 

18.  Goronog  faban  a  dan  irgyll 
At  y  gwyr  sy'  yn  y  Gestyll, 
fo  gyfyd  baner  yn  ei  sefyll, 

Gwae  Arglwydd  Rhaglan  penn  y  Pebyll. 

Ag  felly  y  Terfyna 

O  Lyfr  J.  Wms.  o  Lanrwsi 

gan  Owain  Jones. 


\ 


274  PRYDYDDIAETH. 


AWDL  CORONOG  FABAN  MEWN  MODD    ARALL* 

1.  CoRONOG  faban  medd  Aneunn* 

ac  a  ddarlleir  yn  Llyfrau  Merddin 
Ynghanol  ei  oes  ef  a  nerth  ei  werin, 
Ac  yn  y  diwedd  bydd  eu  brenin, 

2.  Coronog  faban  yn  y  dydd  cynta 
A  gant  ei  ganon  yng  ngwenydfa, 
A  cherddi  gogoniant  yr  uchelfa 
gan  floedd  bydoedd  a  byw  Adda. 

3.  Coronog  faban  credwn  ywV  lesu 
O  dir  y  Gogledd  y  daw  i  Gymru, 
Gwynfyd  ei  wal  ban  wele^r  teulu 
A  meibion  Dyddon  dysg  weinyddu 

4.  Coronog  faban  medd  Barddoni 
Daw  i  dir  Prydain  dros  gefii  gweilgi 

Ai  lyngesdaer  o  Gaer  Geleri 
Yna  gwae  Saeson  gan  gymhelri, 

5.  Coronog  faban  a  dynnir  ei  adeinedd, 
O  waelod  lloegr  hyd  Iwybr  y  gogledd 
A'i  holl  esgyll  a  dyf  yn  y  diwedd 

Yn  nheymas  y  beilchion  a  bydd  rhyfedd. 

6.  Coronog  faban  credwn  yn  ddiau 

A  ddenfyn  Uynges  i  Aber  Geddau, 
yn  y  cryn  Lloegr  Ue  deloV  chwedlan, 
Yn  ysbawdd  dwr  deymas  maddau. 

7.  Coronog  faban  Uyma  beth  rhyfedd 
Rhag  ofn  cafod  a  gil  Vr  Gogledd, 

Cyll  yn  Nhir  Lloegr  yn  Uwyr  ei  fawredd, 
Ac  etto  brenin  bydd  ef  yn  y  diwedd. 

*  0  Lyfr  Ifan  o'r  Ffenn. 


PBYDYDDIAETH.  275 

8.  Ooronog  íaban  a  gyfyd  Ddyw  Gwener, 
Yn  erbyn  Gog  Magog  a'u  henifer, 
yna  gwae  Sarsin  a  fo^n  ei  amser, 

A  gwae  rhyfelu  dan  ei  faner. 

9.  Goronog  faban  medd  Derwyddon 

A  wna  waith  rhyfedd  ym  mysg  Iddewon, 
Pair  iddynt  greda  yn  Gnstnogion 
I  Grist  a  goUes  waed  ei  galon 

10.  Goronog  faban  medd  Doethion  Deain, 
A  dry  dros  foroedd  o  Dir  y  Dwyrain, 
I  ddwyn  tair  coron  canad  ddarwain, 
Ag  i  ddwyn  iawn  i  Ynys  Prydain. 

11.  Goronog  faban  creder  yn  ddiau 

Tn  Nhwr  Babilon  y  cyfyd  Eglwysau 
Brenin  coronog  y  bydd  heb  ammao, 
Ar  bawb  fe  orfydd  yn  ddiarfiäu. 

12.  Goronog  faban  a  orchfyga 

O  For  y  gogledd  hyg  gaerau  Iwdaia, 

Pob  cenedl  ai  cais  am  y  cynta, 

Gwae  ddiriaid  oi  ddyfod  gan  fawr  ddifa. 

13.  Goronog  faban  medd  y  Barddas 
A  eilw  yn  galonog  oV  galanas, 
Ynol  caethfyd  cyfyd  i  urddas 
Hyd  bannau  byd  y  bydd  gwynias. 

14.  Coronog  faban  a  â  dan  irgyll 

A  gadoV  gwyr  sydd  yn  y  Cestyll, 

Fe  gyfyd  baner  yn  ei  sefyll 

Yn  Arglwydd  eurglod  pen  y  pebyll. 

15.  Coronog  faban  gwediV  gadfel 

Ar  foroedd  a  thiroedd  a  thra  rhyfel, 
A  glywir  yn  glaer  medd  yr  Archangel 
Yn  Nyflùŷn  Ebron  ar  dir  isel. 
2  N 


276  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

16.  Coronog  faban  ceir  ef  gyferbyn, 
Ag  angerdd  y  Uew  a  lliSf  dyffryn, 
ag  am  ei  orsedd  fal  j  perthyn 
Gwyn  ei  fyd  o  fab  a  fo**!!  ei  ganlyn. 

17.  Coronog  faban  gan  gaseion 

A  semir  y  Uaid  a  chaiff  drallodion, 

Ac  yn  y  diwedd  dial  ar  alon 

Ac  hyd  fyth  brenin  y  bydd  ar  ddynion. 

18.  Ooronog  faban  goreu  dawn  Hnon 
a  ddyfu  o  nef  er  nawdd  dynion. 
Yn  arwedd  ei  addysg  yn  oen  tinon, 
Ac  efe  a  las  gan  lu  luddewon. 

19.  Coronog  faban  a  ddaw  fal  lonas 

O  fol  y  morfarch  mawr  fydd  ei  orddas, 
Efe  a  esyd  pob  gradd  yn  ei  addas 
Ef  yn  bennaf  un  Gwr  Twr  Teymas. 

20.  Coronog  faban  medd  Aneunn 

Wrth  Seiniau  Cylfeirdd  Cor  Llanfeithin 

Ef  goreu  Ner  nerth  ei  werin, 

Ag  ar  bobloedd  byd  y  bydd  frenin. 

Gildas  BroSWyd  ai  cant. 


LLYMA  ETTO  AWDL  ARALL  I'R  CORONOG  FABAN, 

(anghof  0  ba  lyfr  a'i  tynnais,  fallai  mai  o  ryw  Lyfr  yn  Ysgol 
Cymry  yn  Llundain.)  Medd  lolo  Morganwg. 

1.  Coronog  faban  medd  Taliesin 
A  ddarllöir  yn  llyfrau  Merddin 
Ynghanol  ei  oes  ef  a  nertha  werin, 
Ac  yn  niwedd  ei  oes  ef  a  fydd  brenin. 

2.  Coronog  faban  yn  y  dydd  cynta 
A  gant  ganon  yn  y  gwenydita 
Ac  Awen  gogoniant  oV  nchelfa 
Gan  dardd  bydoedd  a  byw  Adda. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  277 

3.  Goronog  faban  er  nawdd  dynion 
A  ddyfu  o  nef  i  wlad  y  Ganon 

Yn  arwedd  ei  addysg  yn  oen  tirion, 
Ef  yno  a  las  gan  lu  luddewon. 

4.  Coronog  faban  a  gyfyd  dydd  gwener 
Yn  erbyn  Gog  Magog  a'i  hoU  nifer 
Yno  gwaeV  Sais  a  fo'n  ei  amser 

A  gwae  battelu  dan  eu  faner. 

5.  Coronog  faban  pcnna  yw  lesu 

O  Dir  y  Gogledd  y  daw  i  Gymru, 
Gwyn  fyd  Elise  pan  weler  teulu 
A  meibion  dyddon  dysg  weinyddu. 

6.  Coronog  faban  llyma  beth  rhyfedd, 
Bhag  ofn  cafod  a  gil  Vr  gogledd, 

E  gyll  yn  Lloegr  Arglwyddiaeth  Bheufedd 
Ac  etto  brenin  y  fydd  ef  yn  y  diwedd. 

7.  Coronog  faban  credwn  yn  ddiau 
Daw  a'i  lynges  i  Abcrdaugleddau, 

Yno  y  cryn  Lloegr  pan  glywer  chwedlau, 
Ar  Ynys  bawdd  dwr  deyrnas  maddau. 

8.  Coronog  faban  medd  Barddoni 

a  ddaw  i  Brydain  dros  gefn  gweilgi 
Pan  ddel  Uynges  daer  i  Gaer  Gybi, 
Yno  gwae  Saeson  au  hoU  gymliclri, 

9.  Coronog  faban  a  dynnir  ei  adanedd 

O  waelod  Lloegr  hyd  Uwybr  y  Gogledd, 
Ond  un  o'i  esgyll  a  dyf  yn  y  diwedd 
Yn  Nheyrnaa  y  bcilcliion  a  bydd  ryfedd. 


10.  Coronog  faban  medd  Ernigus 

Hen  broffwyd  yr  Alban  a  fydd  alius, 
Gwisg  yn  ei  ieuenctid  goron  ddestlus 
Ag  yn  ei  henaint  bydd  lor  dawnus. 


278  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

11.  Coronog  faban  medd  Bardd  arall 
Mydonwy  Escob  a  fydd  ryall, 

Ef  yn  ei  ieuenctid  a  las  yn  ddiball 
Ef  yn  ei  lawnoed  a  ladd  a  bwyall. 

12.  Coronog  faban  a  gyfyd  llynges 
Medd  Sibli  ddoeth  a  fa  Frenhines, 
Ac  Tr  Twrciaid  efe  a  wna  afles, 

A  chilio  rhagddo  nid  oes  neges. 

13.  Coronog  faban  medd  Derwyddon 

A  wna  ryfeddod  ym  mysg  laddewon, 
Pair  iddynt  gredu  fal  Oristnogion 
I  Grist  GoUi  Gwaed  ei  ddwyfron. 

14.  Coronog  faban  medd  doethion  dëain 
A  dry  dros  for  i  Dir  Prydain, 

I  ddwyn  tair  Coron,  cariad  ddarwain 
Ag  i  ddwyn  urddas  i  Ynys  Prydain 

15.  Coronog  faban  a  gaiff  mawr  urddas 
Medd  Bardd  o  broSwyd  a  elwir  Gildas, 
Yn  Bihufain  dir  ef  a  wna  farddas, 

A'i  gasogion  a  syrth  mewn  anras. 

16.  Coronog  faban  gwedi  mawr  draha 
Medd  leuan  broSwyd  drei  y  passia, 
Ef  a  gaiff  orfod  ar  bob  tyrfa, 

Ag  ar  frenhinoedd  byd  bydd  penna. 

17.  Coronog  faban  credwn  yn  ddmu, 
Yn  nhwr  Bablon  a  gyfyd  Eglwysau, 
Brenin  coronog  fydd  ef  yn  ddiammau, 
Ar  bawb  fe  orfydd  yn  ddiarfau. 

18.  Coronog  faban  a  orchfyga 

O'r  mor  gogledd  hyd  dir  Iwdaia, 
Pob  Cenedl  ai  cais  am  y  cynta 
Gwae'r  Twrc  oi  ddyfod  gan  fawr  ddifa. 


PEYDYDDIAETH.  279 

19.  Goronog  &ban  a  gaiff  ei  gyfarch 
Bhag  o£q  i  Brydain  gafiael  ammharch 
Fe  ddianc  o  ddwylo  fal  hen  Lywarch, 
Fal  y  diengia  Sionas  o  fol  morfÌEirch. 

20.  Goronog  faban  gwediV  gadfel 

Ar  foroedd  a  thiroedd  a  thra  rhyfel 
A  glywir  yn  glaer  medd  yr  Archangel 
Yn  Nyflfryn  Ebron  yn  y  tir  isel, 

21.  Goronog  faban  medd  y  Barddas, 
A  eilw  yn  galonog  oV  galanas, 
Ynol  eaethyd  cyfyd  ei  urddas 
Hyd  bawr  y  byd  y  bydd  gwynnias. 

22.  Goronog  faban  a  dan  yr  irgyll, 
Ac  at  y  gwỳr  eydd  yn  y  Gestyll, 
Fe  gyfyd  baner  yn  ei  sefyll 

Owae  Arglwydd  wrth  gledd  Pen  y  Pebyll. 

23.  Goronog  faban  cair  ef  gyferbyn 
Angerdd  y  Uew  a  Uif  dyffryn, 
Ac  am  ei  orsedd  fal  y  perthyn, 
Gwynfyd  o  f ab  a  fo'n  ei  ganlyn. 

24.  Goronog  faban  gan  gaseion 

A  sengir  yn  Uaid  a  chaiff  drallodion, 
Ac  yn  y  diwedd  dial  ar  Alon, 
A  thra  bo  byth  bydd  frenin  ar  ddynion. 
Ac  felly  terfyna. 


AWDL  Y  GORONOG  FABAN. 

rfr  Printiedig  gan  mwyaf  yn  Saesoneg,  a  elwir  fal  hynn 
tisA  and  Outlandish  Prophecies^  &c.  Published  by  Thomas 
.  London  printed  by  Lodwick  Lloyd,  at  his  Shop  next  to 
•astle  in  Gom  hill.     1658.^'' 

1.  GoKoxoo  faban  medd  Taliesin 

a  hynny  a  ddarllenir  yn  llyfrau  Merddin 
Ynghanol  ei  oes  i  rhuthr  iw  elin, 
Ag  yn  ei  diwedd  y  bydd  brenin. 


280  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

2.  Ooronog  faban  djma  beth  rhyfedd, 
Bhag  ofii  cafod  i  cilia  Vt  Gogledd, 

Ef  a  gyll  yn  Lloegr  Arglwyddiaeth  a  mawredd 
Ag  etto  Brenin  fydd  è'n  eî  ddiwedd. 

3.  Coronog  faban  medd  Hen  Biccus 
Prophwyd  yr  JISlJ»  yn  Abergassis. 

A  gyll  yn  ei  ieuenctid  y  goron  ddyledus 
Ag  yn  ei  ieuenctid  y  bydd  gwr  dawnus. 

4.  Coronog  Faban  medd  prophwyd  arall 
Estodiws  esgob  a  fydd  anghall 

Pan  el  yn  ei  henaint  i  ladd  a  bwyall 
Ag  yn  ei  ieuenctid  yn  famwr  angall. 

5.  Ooronog  faban  a  gyfyd  lynges 
Medd  Sibli  ddoeth  a  fu  Frenhines, 
Ag  Vt  Twrciaid  ef  a  wneiff  afles, 
Ffoi  rhag  hwnnw  nid  oes  neges. 

6.  Coronog  faban  medd  yr  Apostolion, 

A  wna  ryfeddod  ym  mysg  yr  luddewon 
Par  iddynt  gredu  fal  Cnstnogion 
I  Grist  a  golles  irwaed  ei  galon 

7.  Coronog  faban  medd  Uyfrau  Bhufain 
Ef  â  dros  foroedd  i  dir  y  Dwyrain, 

I  ddwyn  coronau  yn  ol  y  damwain, 
Ag  i  ddwyn  urddas  i  Dir  Prydain. 

8.  Coronog  faban  a  gaiff  fawr  urddas 
Medd  hen  Brophwyd  a  elwyd  Gildas 
Ag  yn  Bhufain  Dir  ef  a  wna  Bwrcas 
Ai  gasogion  syrth  mewn  andras. 

9.  Coronog  faban  credwch  yn  ddiau 
Yn  Nhwr  Babilon  i  cyfyd  Eglwysau, 
Brenin  coronog  fydd  yn  ddiammau, 
Gwae  IT  Twrciaid  pan  ddel  iV  difau. 


ÎPRYDYDDIAETH.  281 


10.  Ooronog  faban  a  gyfyd  ddydd  Gwener 
Yn  erbyn  C^og  Magog  a'^u  hannifer 
Âg  a  rydd  fattel  dan  ei  faner 
GwaeV  Sarasinîaid  pan  ddel  ^  anifer 

11.  Goronog  faban  medd  doethion  Bhufaín 
Yn  ol  amser  lesn  mab  Bhiain, 

Mil  pumcant  deg  a  phedwar  ugain 
A  ddial  Draha  Owyr  Tre  Llundain. 

12.  Goronog  faban  pan  ddel  i  henaìnt 
Trwy  nerth  lesu  pen  yr  hoUsaint 
A  fyn  gyfiawnder  iw  holl  Gteraint 
Er  ei  fod  heddiw  yn  salw  ;»*»«»»'«»»» 


13.  Ooronog  faban  medd  Merddin  Emrys 
A^T  gwr  a  elwir  Johannis  CoUescencis^ 
Yn  ei  ienenctid  y  bydd  gwr  ofnos 
Ag  yn  ei  henaint  i  bydd  gwr  grymus. 

14.  Coronog  faban  a  ddenfyn  dan  irgyll 
At  y  gwr  a  fo'n  cadwr  Cestyll, 

Ag  yna  codiV  manerau'*n  eu  sefyll, 

Gwae  Arglwydd  Bhaglan  pan  weloV  Pebyll. 

1 5.  Coronog  faban  medd  Rhys  o**!  Yri, 
A  ddenfyn  Uynges  i  Aberteifi, 

Ag  yn  swydd  Benfro  i  bydd  gweiddi 
Pan  ddel  ei  wyr  i  dir  heb  ballu. 

1 6.  Coronog  faban  a  gaiff  ei  gyfarch 

Er  iddo  yn  Lloegr  gaffael  ammharch 
Ef  a  ddianc  o  ddwylo  hil  Llywarch, 
Fal  y  diengis  Jonas  o  folaV  Morfarch. 

17.  Coronog  faban  wedi  mawr  amrafael 
Ar  foroedd  a  thiroedd  a  chwerw  rhyfel 
Ef  ai  cleddir  medd  yr  Archangel, 

Yn  nyfTryn  lehosaphat  yn  y  tir  isel. 


282  PBYDYDDIAETH. 

18.  Coronog  faban  a  dynn  Tr  moroedd, 

0  waelod  Lloegr  hyd  y  Gogledd, 
Ef  yw  un  asgell  a  gyfŷd  o  wynedd 

1  ynnill  Prydain  hynn  fydd  ryfedd. 

19.  Coronog  faban  a  gaiff  dir  Prydain, 

ei  enw  adwaenir  ym  Mharlment  Llondain, 
Trwy  gyngor  saith  iaith  a  saith  ngain 
GwaeV  Sais  ai  clyw  onid  ar  ddamwain. 

20.  Coronog  faban  credwch  yn  hylwydd 

Y  groes  fe  ddwg  gyda  Sancteiddrwydd, 
Ag  yn  ei  erbyn  ni  ludd  dim  aflwydd, 
Pan  ymddengys  yn  wir  ag  yn  ebrwydd. 

21.  Coronog  faban  credwch  yn  ddiau 

A  ddenfyn  Uynges  i  Aberdaugleddan, 
ag  a  gryn  Lloegr  pan  glywer  chwedlan, 
Nis  bawdd  dwr  dor  nis  maeddan. 
Diwedd. 


MYRDDIN  WYLLT 

koronog  Faban  a  dynn  iV  moroedd 
0  waelod  Lloegr  hyd  y  Gk>gledd 
ef  yw  un  asgell  a  gyfyd  o^i  omedd 
i  enill  prydain  hynny  fydd  ryfedd 

koronog  faban  a  gaiff  tir  brytain 
i  enw  adwaenir  ym  harlament  Unndain. 
trwy  gyngor  saith  iaith  a  saith  igain 
gwae'r  sais  ai  klyw  onid  ar  ddamwain 

koronog  faban  a  gymer  arwydd 
Y  groes  fendigaid  ai  santaiddrwydd 
ag  yny  erbyn  ny  lydd  dim  aflwydd 
pan  ymddengys  yn  wir  ag  yn  ebrwydd 


PBYDYDDIAETH.  283 

koronog  £aban  kredwch  yn  ddiau 
a  ddenfyn  lynges  i  Aber  dau  gleddau 
ag  a  gryn  Uoegr  pan  glyw  r  chwedlau 
ma  bawdd  dwr  dor  nis  maeddau. 

koronog  faban  mêdd  Taliesin 
a  hynny  ddarllenir  yn  Uyfrau  MyrJdin 
ynghanol  i  oes  i  rhythur  yw  elyn 
ag  yny  diwedd  i  bydd  brenin 

koronog  faban  dyma  both  rhyfedd 

rag  ofh  kafod  i  kilia  ir  gogledd 

ef  a  gyll  yn  Uoegr  arglwyddiaeth  a  mawredd 

ag  etto  brenin  fydd  yn  i  ddiwedd 

koronog  faban  medd  hen  Elennys 
profiwyd  yr  Almaen  yn  abergasis 
a  gyll  yny  iengtid  y  goron  ddyledis 
ag  ny  henaint  i  bydd  gwr  dawnis 

koronog  faban  medd  profiwyd  arall 
Estodiws  esgob  a  fydd  angall 
pan  el  yn  y  henaint  i  ladd  a  bwyall 
ag  yn  y  ieuenctid  yn  farnwr  angall 

koronog  faban  a  gj'fyd  Uynges 
medd  Sibli  ddoeth  a  fu  frenhines. 
ag  ir  Twrkiaid  fe  a  wnaefi*  atlcs 
fibi  rag  hwnnw  nid  oes  neges 

koronog  faban  medd  yr  apostolion 
a  wna  ryfeddod  y  mysg  yr  iddewon 
par  iddynt  gredu  fal  gristnogion 
i  grist  a  golles  irwaed  i  galon 

koronog  faban  medd  Uyfrau  Ryfaiii 
ef  a  dros  foroedd  i  dir  i  dwyrain 
i  ddwyn  koronau  yn  ol  y  dam  wain 
ag  i  ddwyn  urddas  i  dir  prydain 
2  o 


284  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

koronog  faban  a  gaiff  fawr  urddas 
medd  hen  broflPwyd  a  elwid  Gildas 
ag  yn  Byfain  a  wnaiff  bwrkas 
ai  gasogion  fyth  mewn  atcas 

koronog  faban  kredwch  yn  ddiau 
yn  hir  babilon  i  kyfyd  eglwysau 
brenin  koronog  fydd  yn  ddiammau 
gwaer  Twrkiaid  pan  ddel  yw  difa 

koronog  faban  a  gyfyd  ddydd  gwener 
yn  erbyn  Gog  a  Magog  ai  hanifer 
ag  a  rhydd  fattel  dan  i  faner 
gwaer  Saraseniaid  pan  ddel  yr  anifer 

koronog  faban  medd  doethion  ryrain 

yn  ol  amser  iesu  mab  y  rhiain 

mil  pum  kant  deg  a  ffedwar  ogain  1594 

a  ddielyff  draha  gwyr  tre  lundain 

koronog  faban  pan  ddel  i  henaint 
trwy  nerth  iesu  pen  yr  holl  saint 
a  vynn  gyviawnder  yw  hoU  geraint 
er  i  fod  heddyw  yn  salw  ddisgaint 

koronog  faban  medd  Myrddin  Emrys 
a  gwr  a  elwir  johanis  kolosencis 
yny  ienctid  y  bydd  gwr  ofiiis 
ag  yny  henaint  i  bydd  gwr  giynris 

koronog  faban  a  ddenfyn  dan  ir  gyll 
aty  gwyr  a  fon  y  kadwr  kestyll 
ag  yna  roddir  mannerau  yn  y  sefyll 
gwae  Arglwydd  Baglan  pan  welor  pebyll 

koronog  faban  medd  Bys  o  r  yri 
a  ddenfyn  lynges  i  Aberteifi 
ag  yn  swydd  benfro  i  bydd  gwaiddi 
pan  ddel  i  wyr  i  dir  heb  balli 


♦Felly'r  camgyfrif.— Ab  Iolo. 


PBYDYDDIAETH.  285 

koronog  faban  a  gaiff  i  gyfarch 
er  iddo  yn  lloegr  gaffael  amarch 
ef  a  ddiank  o  ddwylo  hil  lowarch 
£eJ  y  diengis  jonas  o  fola  r  morfarch 

koronog  faban  wedy  mawr  amrafael 
ar  foroedd  a  thiroedd  a  chwerw  ryfel 
ef  ai  kleddir  medd  yr  archangel 
yn  nyffiryn  jehosaphat  yn  y  tir  bel 


LYNION  AR  ENWAU  DUW  GWAITH  SION  Y  CENT* 

1.  Duw  Tri,  Duw  Oeli  coeliwn,  (Daf,  Eli, 

Dwyf  eilwaith  da  folwn. 
Gwiwner  ei  glod  a  ganwn 
Arglwydd  Dad  mawr  gariad  gwn. 

2.  Ener,  Muner,  Ner,  naf  ydyw,  heb  au 

Pob  bywyd  a  wneddyw, 
Cynnon  neb  un  nis  cenyw, 
Modur  y  Byd  am  duV  byw. 

3.  lor,  Per,  puraf  laf,  iawn  weithiau  Dëon 

Yn  dyall  calonau, 
Huon,  Ion,  goreu  i  ddoniau, 
Duw,  Dofydd  mawr,  lonawr,  lau. 

4.  Crist,  Rhion,  Dafon,  difeth,  Creawdur 

Cariadawl  ei  Achreth, 
Mab  Mair  dianair  Eneth, 
Fab  Byd  yn  peri  pob  peth. 

5.  Pannon  ar  Ganon  gannaid  ai  gelwir 

Da  gwelwn  ef  o'n  plaid, 
O.  I.  ac  W.  yw  a  gaid 
Oiw  beunydd  i  pob  enaid. 

Sion  Y  Cent  ai  Cant. 

♦Llyfr  Wm.  Rosser. 


286  PRYDYDDIAETH. 


OEDRAN  A  PHARHAD  PETHAU. 


Tri  oedran  hoywlan  helynt 

Trioedd  a  fu  gyhoedd  gynt, 

Tair  blwydd  oedran  yn  fannawd 

Yw  pawl  gwem  medd  eppil  gwawd 

Tri  oed  pawl  gwem  a  femir 

Ar  gi  da  mewn  argoed  ir —  9  blwydd. 

A  thair  oes  ci  gwaith  eryw 

Ar  farch  dihafarch  da  yw,  Da  ei  barch  i'r  27 

Tri  oed  march  dihafarchdroed  [byw. 

Ar  wr  a  bychan  yr  oed,  81 

Tri  oed  gwr  toriad  gwiwrym, 

Ar  yr  hydd  llamhidydd  llym,  243 

Tri  oed  Oarw  hwyrfarw  hirfain, 

Ar  fwyalch  goed  eirfalch  gain,  729 

Tri  oed  y  Fwyalch  falchdeg, 

Ar  Dderwen  Daiaren  deg,  2187 

Tri  oed  Derwen  a  femir 

Gwarant  yw  ar  y  Grwn  Tir  6561 

Oil  honyn  fal  rhwymyn  rhod 

A  dderfydd  yn  ddiarfod 

Ac  nis  gall  neb  wrth  hebu*  *  wmebu 

Awr  ing  y  dawV  angau  du, 

Angeu  ni  ad  fwy'^n  angof 

Y  gwyllt  naV  diwyllt  ar  dof, 
Fal  gwar  aV  un  drugaredd 

Y  rhydd  glew  i  Bydew  bedd, 
Dywain  ef  ui  ad  yn  ol 
Anrhydedd  fwy  naV  hudol. 
Ceisiwn  anrhydedd  gwiwsyth 

Y  Gwr  fry  a  bery  byth, 
Yn  y  nef  yn  bendefig 

Heb  dranc  heb  orphen  a  drig, 
Lie  mae  pob  prif  ddigrifwch 
A  phlas  ein  Penadur  fflwch 
Dydd  heb  nos  cunos  canu 
Heb  fwg  heb  dywyllwg  du, 
lechyd  heb  orfod  ochain 
O  glwyf  cy  iached  a'r  glain, 


288  PRYDYDDIAETH- 

A  thrugaredd  a  wedda 
Yn  y  Bedd,  a  Diwedd  da. 

Yr  Athro  Gân  l^ion  y  Gent  ai  Cant, 

Yr  oedd  ef  yn  byw  yn  aniser  Wicliff  ac  yn  un  o^i  blaid. 


LLYMA  GYWYDD 

A  wnaeth  Grafiÿdd  Llwyd  ap  Dafydd  ap  Einion  LygUw,  i 
Forgan  Dafydd  Llywelyn  ab  Philip  Trehaem  o  Bydodyn  yng 
Nghaeo  pan  ydoedd  yn  myned  ar  GPwest  am  ladd  Vstua  Gaer  o 
hanaw  ar  Fainc  Caerfyrddin.  Yr  hwn  Forgan  Dafydd  Llywelyn 
ap  Philip  Trehaem  oedd  frawd  i  Ifor  hael  o  Wem  y  Gleppa  yn 
Sir  Fynwe. — (O  Lyfr  Mr.  Lewys  o  Ben  IBn.) 

Syr  Dafydd  ddiheurydd*  hawl  ♦  ddihedrydd 

Saer  y  gyfraith  fesurawl  t fi  a/. 

Helm  eurdo  o  hil  Mordaf 

Henw  mawr  yn  wyd  Hanmer  Naf, 

airian  berffaith  gyfrithiwr 

Ail  Dafydd  i'^n  dydd  wyd  wr 

Pell  glod  oHh  dafod  a'th  dyf 

Pell  y  seiliaist  pwyll  Selyf. 

Dyred  i  Graer  drwy  dy  gof 

Fawrddawn  wr  Fyrddin  erof. 

I  gynnal  dros  ganol  y  drin 

Bhisiart  farwnwart  frenin, 

Pan  welych  anwylwych  Naf 

Holi  gwr  hael  a  garaf 

Mil  gydag  mi  ai  diaar, 

Morgan  un  a  rann  yr  aur, 

Par  i  hwn  cyn  cyfrwn  cant 

Gwest  Iwyswych  gwas  dilysiant, 

Ni  fyn  hael  moel  helm  wiwlas 

Na  thaelwyr  procurwyr  cas, 

Na  chryddiaid,  haid  ddi  hyder, 

Na  phorthmyn  o  gyndyn  ger, 

Na  gwỳr  dyrif  a  rifir 

Ar  y  gwaithf  ni  wyl*  y  gwir  -f"  Gwalch,  a/. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  289 

1.  Griffydd  ap  Bya,  Gwr  hoffhael 
Gwinionydd  hoyw  brydydd  hael 
Gwr  er  aur,  nid  garw  ei  rôn, 
Awdur  ni  thwng  anudon, 

2.  Llywdyn  rathlyn  rythloy w 
Berchen  gwych  awen  goch  hoyw 
Nid  anhawdd  cael,  hael  hoywlys, 

3.  Bam  gywir  o  rhifir  Ehys^ 
Un  oV  gwyr  goreu  ieuainc 
dyry  fam  ef  aed  fr  fainc. 

4  Moisl  y  Pantri.  nid  milain 

Eurwr  cerdd  ywV  eryr  cain, 

Gbir  honnaid  y  gwr  hwnnw 

Gyda'i  wlad  a  geidw  ei  Iw, 
6.  Bhifer  Ehys  hysbys  ei  hawl 

Brydydd  y  gerdd  bnodawl, 

6,  A  Dafydd  awenydd  wawd. 
Oerth  fab  lorwerth  bybyrwawd, 

7.  Deddf  yw  dioddef  Owain 

Fab  Dafydd  Saeb  cywtdd  cain 
Gwr  a  gân  organ  irgoed 
Gwiliadufl  certh  gwlad  is  Coed, 

8,  A  rhwydd  fydd  cywydd  y  Cyw^ 
Ag  afrwydd  cael  ei  gyfryw, 

9.  Gwr  ywV  Pamed  a  gredir 
Awdur  Serch  adar  y  Sir 
Nid  amheuwn  gwn  gannair 

10.  Lw'r  Crack  ai  law  ar  y  crair, 
Bhoer  yn  y  gyfraith  ar  hynn 

11.  Bhifer  ar  Swpper  Syppyn 
Ehemnant  ydyw'^r  moliant  man 

12.  Bhifer  pan  fynner  finnau, 

Neu'm  gwnaeth  Duw  Nef  dangnef  don 

Un  ni  ad  dyngu  nidon, 

Onid  awn  gwynlawn  ganlyn 

Un  ai  twng  am  enaid  dyn, 

Os  dydd  y  cydeisteddir 

Yn  nhal  ty  gwenllian  hir 

Diddau*  yw  ynt  y  deuddeg  *  diddau 

Om  bam  yn  y  dafarn  deg.  Glam. 


290  PEYDYDDIAETH. 


Er  deulong  o  aur  dylyth, 
Ni  adwaenan  Forgan  fyth, 
Boed  melldith  Mair  feurgrair  fro 
A  Duw  ar  ai  gadawo. 

Gruffydd  Llwyd  Dafydd  ap  Einion  Lygli^ 
ai  cant,  ynghylch  1390.* 


A  hynn  a  fu  yn  amser  Rhisiart  yr  ail  Brenin  Lloegr,  aV  Syr 
Dafydd  Hanmer  rhagenwedig  oedd  Penn  Ustus  ar  fainc  Caer- 
fyrddin  pan  y  cafas  y  Morgan  a  enwyd  ei  ddodi  ar  Gwest  am 
ladd  y  ddau  Ustus  ar  y  Fainc. 


*  Cymmerais  y  Cywydd  uchod,  (ac  felly  y  cy&n  yn  agos  o  barthred 
Gymmraeg  y  Uyfr  hwnn,)  o  dynysgrifeu  fy  Nhad  ;  ond  gann  fod  y  bummed 
linell  yn  eisiau  yno,  herwydd  y  cyfry w  ddiffyg  yn  y  cynysgrif,  lloffais  honno 
o  hen  ysgrif  arall  yn  fy  meddiant,  tua  250  mlwydd  oed  :  pa  on,  beth  byn- 
nag,  a  femais  yn  rhy  lygredig,  parth  y  cyfanaoddiad  trwyddo,  iddei  dilyn 
ym  mhellach.  Ar  ol  y  Cywydd,  yn  yr  hen  ysgrif  grybwylledig,  rhod<ýr, 
yng  Nghymmraeg  a  Saesneg,  y  cyferwyddyd  canlyniadol,  parth  y  ddichwain 
hynod  a  gyfeirir  atti  yn  y  rhagymadrodd : — sef — 

^'griffith  llwyd  davyd  ap  Inon  Ligliw  ai  kant  y  YOigan  dayyd  Hen  ap 
phillipp  trahame  oiydodyn  yng  hayo,  pan  ydoedd  y  mynd  ar  gwest,  am 
ladd  iestys  Caer  a  Canaw,  ar  yaink  Caervyrddin,  rwn  r  yorgan  dd  Hen  ap 
phe  traham  oedd  vrawd  un  vam  y  Ivor  hael  o  wem  y  kleppa  in  sire  Tonwe 

and  this  was  don  in  y*  tyme  of  Rychard  the  second  then  Idng  of  England, 
and  the  above  named  Sir  davyd  hanmer  was  cheif  Jestys  in  the  countye  of 
karmarthinshire  when  this  morgan  was  rayned  for  the  kUlinge  of  the  sayd 
two  judges  viz  Caer  and  Canw" — As  Iolo. 


ENGLYNION  A  GANT  SION  CENT  AR  EI  WELY  ANGAU. 

1.  Beth  a  gaiflF  Cristion  o'r  Byd  a  dirawd 
Daiaroedd  a  golud, 
Ond  bedd  i  orwedd  wryd 
Ag  un  amwisg  bach  i  gyd. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  291 

2.  Ni  lenwir  Tr  corph  lonaid  byth  yma 

Beth  ammaU  melldigaid 
CeisioMd  wyf  o'm  rhwyf  am  rhaid 
Wrth  rann  ymborth  Tr  enaid. 

3.  Un  doeth  yw  Cristion  a  da  yn  gysson 

0  geisio  Duw'n  benna 
A  gaffo  Dduw  a  gaiff  dda 
Dawn  a  gaiff  dŷn  o'i  goffa. 

4.  Da  yw'r  d'ien  yn  y  diwedd  i  ddỳn 

A  ddywed  y  gwiredd, 
Duw  a  digon  wiwdon  wedd, 
Heb  Dduw  gwynn  heb  ddigonedd. 

5.  Tostedd  dialedd  yn  dielwi  y  sydd 

ysowaeth  i'^m  poeni, 
gwaeV  un  a  gwae  'rieni, 
A  gae  rann  om  gweywyr*  î,      ♦pro  gwewyr 

6.  Clyw  fi  yn  ochi  ag  yn  achwyn  yn  flîn 

ail  i  flaidd  wrth  gadwyn 
Paid  lor  Nefol  adolwyn 
O  fyd  yn  danllyd  a^m  dwyn. 

7.  Oes  undyn  nag  un  a  gair  jti  ddifai 

1  ddyfod  i'r  gadair ! 
Oes  un  er  nad  oes  anair  Ì 

Oes,  mab  ein  Arglwyddes  Mair. 
(Fab  al)  (Fair  al) 

8.  Duw  Geli  imi  maddeu  o  bechod 

A  bechais  ersdyddiau, 
Cyn  treng,  cyn  cwyn  taer  angau, 
''Y  nydd  y  sydd  yn  neshau. 

9.  Ir  Bedd  oer  ddygnedd  ddignawd  asg^iTn 

Heb  ysgog  un  aelawd, 
Heb  olwg  gwiw  heb  le  gwawd 
Hyd  ddiweddbrawf  hyd  ddyddbrawd. 
2p 


f!9S  PSTDTnHAETH. 


10.  Bbkk  jVr  CUmîob  DawB  mpwn  Uwyn  (Utdb) 

a  ÂrMá  jw*r  EBfhm  [mr  ryfig 

1  *t  1  lu  r  oTiB  ikiiiJi, 

11.  D^^MariTwdáTdárliTddÿdiiHdiDiiw 

f:««f  r  iréà  m  brdd  bjwjd 
IItb  ba  otbé  w  bTaa  bs  byd. 

12.  >1  brdd  svef  r  djdd  drdiDnm  jB  Ihryr 

HmI  n  Ikw'ivdi  âtta 
Xa  9«*  u  Ibk  aderm. 
Xa  href  bTiU  n  <bdd  n  dfn. 


13.  6offv«  sair  btb  Mair  jmumw  a  Dvw, 
Am  Bad  o«8  dim  kbddmw. 
Abssb  daD  Tb  wi^  dwjflsw 
a>  aagBB^B  ddias  b  ddaw. 
SioB  C^Bt  Ù  Cuit  Br  «  wdr  AagBB,  jb  mmser  7  Breni  t^ 
HBRfr  pmBMd  TÌd  oíedd  ell— (Ujfr  T.  Bon».) 


LLYMA  GYWYDD  TLLTUD  SANT 

[O  Ysgrif  JB  Daw  TbooiBs  ab  lexaB  o  DreV  brjB,  plwyf  Lb^^ 
gnUo  xm  Mor^aBwg,  ctMi  1670.] 

9  sant  ^r  da  saÌBt  war  dir 
rDiTd  o  waed  Drdaw  dir 
nianrbog  o  Eb  oEb  ocdd 

TBirvtaiB  wr  aiawr  vtoedd 

•      •  • 

BtkanTS  Tab  kesais  tbwI 
barrwn  hea  waed  breBhÌBawl 
brenhÌBferrh  bur  tb  beBfiun 
brytaeB  Tawr  brrtini  i  Tarn 
d  v^:ai  Bif  dỳsg  iawB  OTwy 
BY  ddjs^wdd  Tab  ddjag  oedd  fwr 
arfer  yn  wr  fry  a  wBaeth 
1»  line  a  milwriaeth 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  293 

milwr  diiw  yn  malar  diir 

marchog  mawr  waithog  Arthur 

Oi  dir  ogylch  drwy  aigion 

i  troi  sant  yr  ynys  hon 

i  ymweled  a  milwyr 

a  thair  wyl  Arthur  au  wyr 

brenin  gwlad  vawrgad  vorgan 

bu  wr  o  lais  mewn  brô  Ian 

aeth  i  weled  wrth  helynt 

ansodd  gwỳr»yn  soddi  gynt 

ef  ai  dy  o  vadwyaeth 

ag  at  ei  gar  gatwg  aeth 

ymadaw  megis  maudwy 

or  byd  mawr  ar  bywyd  mwy 

a  bwrw  i  vab  wyry  a  vedd 

i  hoU  vaich  wella  i  vychedd 

gvrrthodes  gwyrth  ehydwych 

gwleddau  gynt  i  Arglwydd  gwŷch 

ynglynn  nant  Angel  ai  nawdd 

oi  hun  fwyn  ai  hanvonawdd 

hyd  y  mann  i  damonwyd 

hyd  y  nant  lynn  hodnant  Iwyd 

lie  sailiawdd  Uys  a  welwn 

lie  glwys  hardd  oil  eglwys  hwn 

Dy  frig  a  fyn  bendigaw 

urddal  i  iad  ar  ddwy  law 

yno  i  bu  yn  dwyn  bywyd 

ai  drefn  bwys  dra  vy  ny  byd 

yn  weddiwr  yn  dduwiol 

i  dduw  nef  am  a  ddoi'n  ol 

un  pryd  a  phenyd  i  ffydd 

}Ti  bennoeth  a  wnai  baenydd 

A  phaenoeth  mewn  oer  flFynnon 

awr  yn  hoeth  ir  ai  i  hon 

gwnaeth  wrthau  ar  liniau  r  1yd 

wrth  for  hâllt  wrthfawr  UUtyd 

llafur  dwys  llafirio  i  dir 

llif  vordwy  vy'r  hoU  lavurdir 

mor  a  yrroedd  mor  wrol 

oi  ffon  ef  i  ffo  vn  ol 


294  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

lie  ni  ddoi  y  llanw  i  ddawon 
lie  dodai  fiwjs  Ulltud  ffonn 
y  karw  ymlaen  kri  emlyniaid 
yw  nawdd  Tr  aeth  ban  oedd  raid 
kyvaill  march  a  thwarchawr 
kario  main  a  wnai^r  karw  mawr 
bu  lawen  wrth  y  brenin 
bu  or  dwr  barod  i  win 
bu  or  halen  dduw  gwener 
bu  or  pysg  ar  bara  per 
pen  swyddwyr  pan  nas  hoeddynt 
yn  oes  gwr  marsianws  gynt 
on  a  doddes  enw  diddawr 
y  Uall  a  lynkawdd  y  llawr 
bar  a  llid  lie  boV  Uedwg 
bu  amon  drist  brenin  drwg 
aeth  vlwyddyn  aeth  vawl  yddaw 
gaüaf  driid  ir  ogof  draw 
Î  boenyddiaw  ban  ydoedd 
ar  vara  dwr  i  vryd  oedd 
Marsianws  Ue  mrysonid 
mynnai  ladd  er  mwyn  i  lid 
lie  gwelas  yn  He  gelyn 
llid  ai  dwg  ar  Ulltyd  wynn 
ddoer  gwyr  yn  y  ddaear  gau 
i  syrthient  lie  roes  wrthau 
danfon  yd  noevio  a  wnaeth 
draw  i  dynnu  drydaniaeth 
dwy  sgibor  lawn  dros  voroedd 
i  lydaw  aeth  i  wlad  oedd 
i  briod  dâll  brid  diwg 
a  gae  ailwaith  i  golwg 
y  ddau  laidr  i  ddiawl  ydynt 
y  gwyr  caeth  aen  gerrig  gynt 
Adar  yngwarcha  ydoedd 
wỳllt  a  dof  gan  uUtud  oedd 
ymladdoedd  a  mil  addef 
liw  nos  wrth  olau  o  nêf 
niarchog  kaidw  i  blwyvogion 
moled  diiw  am  y  wlad  hon 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  295 

Aros  heddyw  ras  yddynt 
wrth  i  ras  ai  wrthauV  ŷnt 
aros  ir  wyf  awr  sy  raid 
i  minnau  nef  ym  enaid 

lewys  Morganwg  ai  kaut. 
(0  Ysgriflyfr  Thomas  ab  levan  o  Dre'r  bryn.) 


LLYMA  GYWYDD  TEILO  SANT. 

radau  dalm  Bo  diiw  deilaw 

ryeddogloew  aarog  law 

gwych  vu  r  term  yth  gonffermwyd 

glan  val  diddig  ensig  wyd — 

Uin  hychdwn  pen  varwn  piir 

dawn  i  wiwglod  yn  eglur 

A  llin  yrddedig  sant  Uwyd 

kedig  karedig  ydwyd 

mawr  oedd  vonedd  cynedda 

wiw  loewdeg  ddawn  wledig  dda 

doyraeth  benadur  divreg 

dy  oriigaw  deilaw  deg 

esgob  santawl  vrainiawl  vryd 

a  vuost  0  iawn  vywyd 

Aur  lythr  diorwag  ragor 

yn  llann  daf  karaf  y  kor 

Wr  gwleddrym  o  Arglwyddry w 

ef  ath  gonffermwyd  Iwyd  lyw 

yn  benn  raith  drwy  saith  iaith  sant 

morganwg  mawr  ogoniant 

val  i  mae  gwarau  gwiwras 

o  rym  gwrthau  diiw  ai  ras 

dewi  dy  iawngar  diwael 

yn  hir  deheubarth  wr  (yn)  liael 

wr  kadr  val  i  mae  padrig 

vycheddawl  o  vrainiawl  vrig 

yn  benn  or  saint  iawnfraint  ion 

aur  wiwdduU  ar  iwerddon 

megis  tomas  yrddasa^^awl 

merthyr  lie  kyr  bwyllyr  iiiawl 


294  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

He  ni  ddoi  y  llanw  i  ddawon 
He  dodai  fiWys  UUtud  ffonn 
y  karw  ymlaen  kri  emlyniaid 
yw  nawdd  Tr  aeth  ban  oedd  raid 
kyvaill  march  a  thwarchawr 
kario  main  a  wnai^r  karw  mawr 
bu  lawen  wrth  y  brenin 
bu  or  dwr  barod  i  win 
bu  or  halen  dduw  gwener 
bu  or  pysg  ar  bara  per 
pen  swyddwyr  pan  nas  hoeddynt 
yn  oes  gwr  marsianws  gynt 
un  a  doddes  enw  diddawr 
y  Hall  a  lynkawdd  y  Hawr 
bar  a  Hid  He  boV  Hedwg 
bu  amon  drist  brenin  drwg 
aeth  vlwyddyn  aeth  vawl  yddaw 
gaüaf  drüd  ir  ogof  draw 
i  boenyddiaw  ban  ydoedd 
ar  vara  dwr  i  vryd  oedd 
Marsianws  He  mrysonid 
mynnai  ladd  er  mwyn  i  lid 
He  gwelas  yn  He  gelyn 
Hid  ai  dwg  ar  UHtyd  wynu 
ddoer  gwyr  yn  y  ddaear  gau 
i  syrthient  He  roes  wrthau 
danfon  yd  noevio  a  wnaeth 
draw  i  dynnu  drydaniaeth 
dwy  sgibor  lawn  dros  voroedd 
i  lydaw  aeth  i  wlad  oedd 
i  briod  dall  brid  diwg 
a  gae  ailwaith  i  golwg 
y  ddau  laidr  i  ddiawl  ydynt 
y  gwyr  caeth  aen  gerrig  gynt 
Adar  yngwarcha  ydoedd 
wỳHt  a  dof  gan  uUtud  oedd 
ymladdoedd  a  mil  addef 
liw  nos  wrth  olau  o  nêf 
niarchog  kaidw  i  blwyvogiou 
moled  diiw  am  y  wlad  hon 


FKTDTDDtJJmSL  295 


Arm  huiA}  m  rat  yMymt 
widt  i  ram  â  wtúamT  jmt 
ane  ir  vjf  svr  sj  laîd 

IrvTS  Moifuwg  ai  kaut. 
(0  Yggiiiiû  Tkiw  ab  leran  o  Dre>  bryn.) 


LLTMA  GYWYDD  TEHjO  SANT. 


i  Bôdnw  deilaw 
aoroglaw 
gwrdi  Tu  r  term  Tth  gonffermwrd 
glui  Til  diddig  cnsig  wrd — 
Dm  hrclidwn  pen  Tarwn  pur 
dawn  i  wiwglod  jm  eglnr 
A  nin  Tiddedig  sant  Uwjd 
kedig  karedig  jdwjd 
mawr  oedd  ronedd  cynedda 
wiw  loewdeg  ddawn  wledig  dda 
doTraeth  benador  divreg 
dy  oriigaw  deilaw  deg 
esgob  saDtawl  Trainiawl  vrvd 
a  Tuoat  o  iawn  vywyd 
Aor  Ivthr  diorwâg  ra^jor 
vn  Uann  daf  karaf  y  kor 
Wr  gwleddrym  o  Arglwyddry  w 
ef  ath  gonffermwyd  Iwyd  lyw 
yn  benn  raith  drwy  saith  iaitli  sant 
morganwg  mawr  ogoniant 
yal  i  mae  gwarau  gwiwras 
o  rym  gwrthau  diiw  ai  ras 
dewi  dy  iawngar  diwael 
yn  hir  deheubarth  wr  (yn)  had 
wr  kadr  val  i  mae  padrig 
vycheddawl  o  vrainiawl  vrig 
yn  benn  or  saint  iawnfraint  ion 
aur  wiwddull  ar  iwerddoii 
niegis  tomas  yrddiisa^^awl 
merthvr  He  kyr  bwyllvr  iiiawl 


._  Atrn. 


PRTDTDDIAETH.  297 

kael  yno  nyd  koel  annoeth 

y  korff  kysegredig  koeth 

nth  drwsiad  gUnwedd  heddiw 

ath  dlysan  gwrthfawr  gwawr  wiw 

nth  goron  trwy  ddaioni 

wasgad  diiw  a  wisgyd  ti 

Ath  gloch  mi  yw  un  oth  glêr 

ath  grib  ath  Ijfr  iaith  groewber 

daw  a  wnaeth  llawer  erod 

da  wrthau  glan  di  warth  glod 

gwna  dithan  mygr  drwy  wrthau  mwyn 

draw  deilaw  dros  adolwyn 

dewin  wyd  o  daw  yn  nes 

llongau  gwyr  lloegr  ai  llynges 

lladd  rai  ar  drai  o  ryw  draill 

bydd  ddewra  sant  bawdd  eraill 

dial  yn  sorr  am  dorri 

da  glos  duw  dy  eglwys  di 

teilo  vab  Uewych  fab  llais 

ensig  na  ado  un  sais 

gyrr  hwynt  oer  vraw  bwynt  ar  vry» 

aiirfawl  enw  ar  vel  ynys 

teilwng  wynfyd  pryd  prydfertli 

tegan  wyd  ti  a  gau  nerth 

0  rai  ysbrydol  ar  hjTit 

atad  dy  genedl  ytynt 

g^enllaw  prâff  gwinlliw  proffwyd 

diwael  iw  a  dewi  Iwyd 

gwedy  keffych  koeth  wych  kktl 

gwir  ytiw  y  gwyr  attad 

na  vydd  war  na  thrigarawg 

bydd  groelawn  radlawn  yr  hawfr 

ynghilbant  ny  lyniant  lò.s 

wrthynt  lin  alis  arthes 

teilwng  gwna  ddinist  tylwyth 

hen  saiä  o  lin  heinsies  Iwyth 

aur  oedd  dy  sens  vab  enii^»- 

er  diiw  ai  wrthau  ior  diir 

hel  ar  unwaith  hil  Ronwen 

vrrt  iawn  waith  o  vrytwn  wen 


298  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

LLYMA  GYWYDD  DEWI   SANT 
(0  Ysgriflyfr  Thomas  ab  levan  o  DreV  bryn.) 

wrth  glybod  chwedl  tafod  tyfyr 
a  darllain  pôb  diwair  llyfyr 
o  lyfyr  aiir  lythyr  loewfraint 
a  son  am  vycheddau  saint 
nyd  gwell  sant  flynîant  i  fiawd 
na  dewi  iawn  i  dywawd 
deng  mlynedd  kyvannedd  kor 
arigain  teg  vy  ragor 
kyn  geni  dewi  i  doeth 
kanu  teg  kaniad  hoewgoeth 
i  ymi  padrig  orior 
er  mawl  i  ddewi  ir  mor 
a  gadyr  tir  a  giiddiwyd 
o  dduw  Ian  i  ddewi  Iwyd 
sant  i  dad  o  vwriad  vy 
a  nillwyd  o  iawn  allu 
o  nonn  santes  wenn  annwyl 
verch  gynyr  nâf  hoewaf  hwyl 
rwydd  i  manegaf  yr  hawg 
vychedd  nonn  dra  vu  vaichawg 
bara  or  haidd  a  berwr  rif 
a  dwfr  fy  ymborth  difrif 
Gildas  yna  gas  anair 
hèb  alii  pregethu  gair 
am  vod  non  vriw  gainlliw  gynt 
is  gil  y  ddor  nys  gwelynt 
yn  eglwys  y  groes  oesir 
i  ganed  hwn  ganiad  hir 
pan  esgores  y  pennaeth 
y  Uêch  yn  ddwy  lech  y  ddaeth 
duw  wrth  vedyddio  dewi 
a  wnaeth  ffons  o  ddwfr  i  ni 
roes  yw  dad  bedydd  medd  rai 
i  olwg  gynt  ny  welai 
gwelad  kalomen  wen  war 
yny  ddysgu  iawn  ddwysgar 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  299 

paliims  gwn  pa  lyniaeth 
dull  0  nych  dallu  a  wnaeth 
gwnaetli  dewi  roddi  ar  hynt 
i  lygaid  fal  na  Iwygynt 
pan  vy  ŵr  wiw  gyflwr  wêdd 
aeth  i  Ryvain  waith  ryvedd 
klych  Ryvain  aurgain  ergyd 
a  gânt  i  hunain  i  gyd 
kroeses  heb  vost  ar  osteg 
yr  enaint  twym  ryw  nant  teg 
gwnaeth  yn  rydd  luniaeth  y  wlad 
gwanwyn  y  grawys  gwynnad 
bwyd  devn  gu  dra  vy  vyw 
bara  a  dwfr  bwriad  afryw 
i  dad  ef  ai  hôU  daid  oedd 
arglwyddi  mawr  i  gwleddoedd 
angel  a  ddoeth  goeth  gerynt 
i  gor  llann  gyvelach  gynt 
i  ymi  devri  aüriaith 
i  vedd  kaerysalem  vaith 
dyg  hynt  y  ddau  sant  dêg  hael 
gydag  ef  i  gadẅ  gavael 
pwy  a  dry  rann  padarn  rwydd 
a  theilo  sant  iaith  hylwydd 
daiithant  a  phob  meddiant  mawr 
i  vyniw  santaidd  vaenawr 
diiw  a  roes  meddiant  nys  dwg 
i  deml  dewi  naid  amlwg 
ryw  dyd  nôf  rydid  i  ni 
a  roes  duw  o  ras  dewi 
roes  yn  deg  lynn  rosyn  dir 
rydid  i  gymry  He  redir 
velly  i  gwnaeth  aiirfaith  arfoU 
dewi  deg  yn  diwyd  oil 
a  da  i  gwnai  vagna  oi  vagi 
o  varw  yn  vyw  oi  vyragl 
mawr  vy  r  nifer  am  gerynt 
a  gad  ynghwm  brevi  gynt 
saith  igain  mil  syth  ganiad 
o  saith  mil  kvnnil  i  kad 


2q 


Wy^rluaandydocbdeg 

ry^lebarddry         , 
^çUedel^^y 

*^rtX»«^y"^Adkrèd 


PBYDYDDIAETH.  801 

bedd  krist  kjnny  ddi  dnst  kain 
a  ryyedd  deml  o  Byyain 
dewi  a  bair  gywair  gêd 
i  werin  Gymro  wared 
dewi  ddyfirwr  yw'n  diwyd 
dafydd  bensaint  bedydd  byd 
o  nef  i  doeth  Syrí  goeth  Sydd 
i  nef  i  ddaeth  yn  yvydd. 

ieaan  Bydderch  ap  ieuan  llwyd  ai  kant 


LLYMA  GYWYDD  SANT  KATTWa 

Y  8ANT  dewis  syn  tyedd 

i  ddwyn  i  yyw  ddyn  oi  vedd 

mawr  i  ddeall  aü  alia 

aü  wrthau  n  vab  wrthun  yy 

kyrchu  tan  ny  bu  lanach 

aü  ddwyn  ny  bais  yn  ddyn  bach 

nydoedd  ar  edan  yddi 

nn  Ô1  tan  ny  welad  hi 

or  yd  gyrrwys  yr  adar 

0  rad  düw  nêf  Tr  ty  n  war 

ag  yna  rwn  dwy  gynor 

i  byon  ddydd  heb  an  ddôr 

mawr  yw  rif  o  chyf rifir 

mwy  wyrth  ef  na  mor  a  thir 

i  karw  union  koronog 

ae  dynnu  llwyth  aidon  Ilôg 

ef  a  wnaeth  ni  fynnai  wall 

wrth  ddewrion  wrthau  arall 

yn  gerrig  ynỳ  gorwedd 

ar  dir  glas  i  vordwy  gwledd 

pan  roed  sopynniau  redyn 

ir  tir  gynt  ar  y  tarw  gwynn 

ar  dda  byw  arwydd  i  bod 

ar  gam  ny  wrai  gymod 

kattwg  i  wayn  llwg  un  llaw 

au  talodd  dan  gor  Teilaw 


si 


^ 


tlT 


Uafio 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  303 

pan  ddaüthost  penn  i  ddoethion 

einan  sant  ir  ynys  honn 

kawr  dros  blwyf  kaer  wedros  blant 

a  leddaist  rag  aflwyddiant 

blaidd  ne  ryw  ddiawlaidd  elyn, 

bwytta  ddoedd  o  bob  ty  ddỳn 

pan  gaddiaist  pennaig  addwyn 

Bagddo  vab  y  wraig  weddw  vwyn 

golwyth  a  roest  or  gelain 

yn  He  r  mab  o  ddŷn  llerw  main 

y  kawr  a  wyby  r  kerynt 

o  ddamwain  y  gelain  gynt 

y  gŵr  llwyd  goryw  i  lUd 

a  gaisawdd  lie  krogysid 

ag  yna  ir  aiithog  Cynog 

yn  lie  hwnn  ir  prenn  krwn  krog 

torres  y  gormes  dy  gig 

dy  vorddwyd  ti  o  vawrddig 

tyvoedd  ar  vorddwyd  davad 

gwlân  gwynn  ar  dy  glun  a  gad 

all  vryd  oedd  vwriad  addig 

ailwaith  gaol  i  wala  oth  gig 

yna  i  dalith  enaid  ethawl 

arf  i  ti  i  orfod  diawl 

torch  0  nêf  trychu  a  wnaeth 

trwy  vilain  torf  o  alaeth 

diwg  i  roed  ar  dy  grair 

dyviad  heb  naviad  navair 

dygaist  ŵr  o  bendigaeth 

dorch  ag  nid  aiirych  ai  gwnaeth 

krair  o  vetel  rydd  velyn 

kyngron  dorch  kangrwn  dyn 

odid  o  thorrid  o  than 

nag  un  gof  aü  gwnai  n  gyfan 

y  gof  yn  Evena  gynt 

ei  thorri  bu  waith  hirynt 

tair  dam  kadair  i  kiidiawdd 

iesii  hwn  aü  iasau  n  hawdd 

penn  raith  hob  ovailwaith  vy 

pan  welad  iasad  iesu 


304  PRYDYDDIAETH. 


ban  dorred  dy  ben  dewrwych 
i  gwnaeth  gwyrth  a  gwrthan  gwych 
kerddaist  ath  ben  wrth  dennyn 
wrth  dy  gorff  o  wyrth  diiw  gwyn 
ny  allay  r  byd  hyd  hyfiyd  hwyl 
ddwyn  deinoes  ddýn  da  anwyl 
hyd  pan  gad  daliad  dilys 
dwyn  dy  grair  o  dan  dy  grys 
penn  raith  rag  poenan  yr  hawg 
ywch  annwyl  y  Miycheinawg 
a  phan  aeth  dofiiaîüi  wyd  ŵr 
aü  phenn  aü  bamddi£ÿimwr 
amddifin  wlâd  y  tâd  tau 
iaith  0  ddüw  atìi  weddiaiu 
bydd  veddig  ir  gynvigen 
bwrw  on  mysg  yn  bar  amen 
galw  dy  bun  ynyn  gwlad  hedd 
ag  airiol  am  drigaredd. 

Howel  ap  davydd  ap  jevan  ap  Bys  aü  kant 


KYWYDD  I  LYFR  ARALL .♦ 

DiLTB  gan  anfedrys  gaü 

taerys  vawr  i  anturiaü 

llyfr  wyd  heb  roi  Ua&r  iavn 

dalennog  diwael  iniawn  i 

Arwest  gekr  o  bymthekryw 

aro  dy  fam  or  wyd  vyw 

nan  dithau  kryn  airau  kred 

a  i  ffb  rwng  hen  gist  a  phared 

drüd  wyd  ymhôb  diraiiÛ 

darfy  dy  ddivainti  di 

paid  erof  onid  kof  kwymp 

olcastr  ti  a  gair  ailkwymp 

dig  yw  r  kedym  klochwym  klyd 

dig  iawn  nas  diogenid 

O  gaagliad  gann  Thomas  ab  levan  o  Dre'r  Bryn ;  y^grifennedig  tuag  1670. 


PBYDTDDIAETH.  305 

dig  hefyd  wiw  £^d  i  ffordd 
yw  r  esgyb  gwael  yw  r  ysgordd 
dig  yw  r  gwŷr  lien  ar  menaich 
dygn  vyth  dwyn  dogon  o  yaich 
dig  yn  ryw  odrig  rydrist 
ywr  brodyr  krefyddwyr  krist 
di  wann  gannoedd  dan  gynnnll 
dig  ywr  ofiairiaid  ny  dnU 
tiyth  noeth  traethu  a  wnaethost 
na  chant  hwy  gwn  achwyn  tost, 
groen  dü  fiS&l  graen  yw  dy  S&d 
gaürydd  nef  yn  agored 
nawdd  y  gorachel  geli 
ny  thraathais  ny  soniais  i 
na  ddelynt  yn  nn  ddolef 
ai  llü  0  nerüi  oU  i  nef 
dywedaf  chwedl  gwiraf  chwym 
om  kaudawd  am  y  cedym 
ony  chant  nef  drèf  dradoeth 
0  vodd  diiw  wr  yvydd  doeth 
meddir  o  bydd  kywir  kant 
i  minnau  hwy  ai  mynnant 
airau  glew  ar  y  glywais 
orddwy  drud  ar  ddiiw  o  drais 
hoewdda  rwysg  heddiw  r  esgob 
ai  sidan  ny  gyvan  gob 
gwin  a  vynn  nyd  gwann  i  var 
awch  a  gaidw  a  chig  adar 
llefain  na  bai  alluvawr 
a  llyfrau  n  damaidiau  mawr 
ny  wỳdd  o  gwỳl  i  arglwyddes 
vennaid  teg  aiir  vannau  tea 
annwyl  oedd  a  wnêl  yddi 
yny  Ue  i  hune  hi 
y  menaich  ami  i  mwnai 
müriaü  teg  mawr  yw  i  tai 
braisgon  ynt  ar  i  brasgig 
braisgon  dinwygyddion  dig 
ba  hawl  drom  ba  hwyl  dramwy 
ne  ddeallynt  i  hynt  hwy 


306  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

twjn  unfodd  tinau  unfaint, 

tyrched  yn  synned  ar  saint 

ar  brodyr  prygethwyr  gynt 

a  oe'^dyn  heb  dda  yddynt 

ar  i  traed  airau  trydyn 

wrth  bwys  heb  orffwys  oi  ffynn 

i  maent  hwy  hoeywbwy  hybairch 

yn  dri  Uii  ym  meddu  mairch, 

nyd  amlach  kyfeddachwyr 

gwleddau  na  gwarau  y  gwỳr 

kryfion  ynt  yn  y  krefydd 

kryfion  diffodyddion  ffydd 

y  fiairiaid  yn  amlaid  ni 

mae  ar  hwntan  i  renti 

pob  un  heb  na  llun  na  lies 

over  iawn  ai  vorones 

ni  biau  r  gwragedd  meddant 

hwyntau  biau  r  plwyfau  ar  plant 

pob  plwyf  heb  berchen  dwy viiw 

ai  plant  yn  bwytta  da  düw 

i  weddu  nid  oedd  vriwdda 

i  wlad  nèf  medd  ef  i  dda 

mynnau  om  dysg  am  anian 

a  thrwy  lyw  r  ysgriithyr  Ian 

mi  a  ^  gwiraf  gwarant 

oi  gwrs  ef  y  gorau  sant 

na  lewas  gwiwras  gwerin 

ddewi  ar  i  weddi  vrin 

na  medd  glas  gloew  eglwyslew 

na  rost  mawr  i  sawr  na  sew 

na  gwisgo  krys  gwiw  ysgawn 

na  phais  ond  yr  an  bais  rawn 

na  llanw  yn  ddi  salw  i  sain 

y  pot  na  rythro  pütain 

kyd  bod  hynof  kof  kawdnwyf 

a  medr  oil  mae  awdiir  wyf 

nyd  un  north  yn  ymdynnu 

unig  ag  eglwysig  In 

gwn  gyfraith  aiiriaith  arab 

y  tad  airau  mad  ar  mab 


i 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  307 

i  nifer  hwy  nêf  ar  hynt 
am  i  gael  ymogelynt 
wedy  r  kig  rôst  vôst  vaethrin 
ar  lUain  gwynvain  ar  gwin 
ar  gwleddau  gwarau  gwiwreg 
ar  gwragedd  tyd  aürwedd  têg 
astyd  wyf  ystad  ofwy 
ystym  twyll  ystyrient  hwy 
nad  0  wleddau  gau  gymen 
i  ddair  i  nef  ddioer  nenn 

Sion  y  kent  ai  kant. 


CYWYDD  CYFRINACH 

Dewrddryd  lywelyn  daerddraig 
dyred  taer  grèd  tiar  graig 
lie  mae  penn  brawd  Gystenin 
yendigaid  lafn  drafn  y  drin 
yngwyl  derw  angel  daürüdd 
ynghoed  Pharaon  ynghudd 
ar  oer  garreg  Eryri 
mae  ged  vawr  lie  magwyd  vi 
pai  delyd  aür  vryd  ir  vro 
enaid  prydyddion  yno 
kaid  gerddawr  air  mawr  a  mêdd 
a  gwîn  ynraigiau  Gwynedd 
Rygl  benn  rag  mor  gyraen  goeth 
i  roddaist  ateb  ryddoeth 
ymliw  kail  ami  yw  kellwair 
om  brys  gerdd  am  bris  y  gair 
ar  gair  yn  gyviawn  nid  gau 
moes  air  yn  y  mesürau 
gwddost  yn  valch  walch  o  wên 
deall  hynn  o  beth  dien 
pai  prisid  airid  erof 
pob  gair  om  gwawd  kaiidawd  kôf 
yn  ddrûd  anianawl  mawl  Mair 
doeth  ríngamp  diaithr  un  gair 
2  R 


308  PRYDYDDIAETH. 


tal  odl  ni  byddwn  tylodach 

na  mi  na  neb  wjneb  iach 

er  bod  un  gair  lie  kair  kel 

brys  osod  ar  bris  isel 

mefl  a  ddêl  am  lywelyn 

yn  voes  dig  vydd  anfoes  dyn 

oV  bydd  gair  hagr  gorwagrwydd 

Ron  i  kawn  y  byd  yn  rwydd 

raid  yn  son  kerddonon  kain 

o  blegid  awen  bylgain 

ymlynwn  rad  provadwy 

ymhenn  y  maes  am  hynn  mwy 

di  semi  i  dywedysoch 

einas  y  gerdd  i  Rys  goch 

i  mae  r  siil  gwynn  syn  vy  r  son 

yngolau  sampl  angylion 

i  dangosed  nawdd  gêd  nâf 

i  gant  awen  yn  gyntaf 

daü  kant  mlynedd  haelwedd  hil 

nod  hôff  amod  a  phumil 

ys  diiw  a  oedd  ystiwart 

kyn  y  siil  gwyn  kwnsel  gwart 

i  kad  lien  gloew  awen  glau 

or  trwn  lie  maer  taranau 

ai  bonedd  hu  odl  baunoeth 

0  ddysg  Granapla*  a  ddoeth  *  Einigan 

ynglynn  maes  maillonwyn  mwy  (lolo  Morganwŷ.) 

Ebron  angylion  obrwy 

ag  yno  gloew  gyfiro  glwys 

i  prydwyd  vydr  paradwys 

ag  Addaf  diiw  naf  dy  nawdd 

0  dasg  Alpha  ai  dysgawdd 

y  gerdd  gyntaf  llathr  naf  llwyd 

a  genau  doeth  a  ganwyd. 

ar  mesur  o  rym  oesoedd 

hwnn  ar  gerdd  hen  aurawg  oedd 

a  ddyg  henw  o  ddig  hynod 

ir  glynn  aeth  etto  ar  glôd 

pent  hu  ag  yn  gu  gywir 

0  gwn  wawd,  ag  e  yn  wir 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  309 

a  roes  dliw  oi  ras  i  del 

ir  gobr  yngenau  Gabriel 

a  Gabriel  yn  air  gobraff 

da  gwnn  grêd  ai  dygyn  graff 

or  nêf  gatholig  ar  naid 

vawr  gynnydd  i  yair  gannaid 

jsbryd  tad  urddâd  alirddellt 

glan  a  mâb  golaini  mèllt 

or  tair  llythyren  air  teg 

byw  vyrainryw  vy  r  anreg 

drwy  unryw  lythr  dro  iawnrodd 

on  balch  gelfyddyd  an  bôdd 

ir  ysgrivennir  wir  wen 

daw  pyrth  düw  daüparth  dawon. 

ar  hain  o  henw  venw  vanol 

o  nef  gyda  hynny  n  ôl 

gwrdd  ennill  gerddau  anian 

ag  am  hynn  lywelyn  Ian 

dywedaist  diau  wewdydd 

yn  egliir  ffyrfir  y  Sydd 

Myr  uwchder  mydr  mawr  echdoe 

yn  iawn  ddysg  am  awen  ddoe 

enaid  y  bairdd  onid  bod 

gorau  baibl  GAIR  HEB  WYBOD 

gwrdd  ir  attebaist  dog  ach 

a  hu  odl  yny  haüach 

daeth  ddi  vagi  i  doeth  Eva 

o  nef  ddoeth  anavai  dda 

felly  doeth  awen  gennym 

gwrdd  ras  yn  vam  y  gerdd  rym 

nid  kamp  lythr  aurgarap  len 

na  bywyd  krefft  heb  awen 

Taliesin  hydr  ar  vydr  vy 

gobaith  proffwyd  ai  gwyby 

llywelyn  hynod  glod  glaer 

naddwr  kerdd  awenyddair 

a  mefl  ir  dyn  tremyn  tro 

na  thraetiir  ar  ethrotto 

kar  bax  o  dir  mab  Maxen 

i  ti  gan  wr  briglwyd  hen 


310  PRYDYDDIAETH. 


a  chrio  klod  ochrawg  kledd 
awch  ymrwydr  a  chymrodedd 

Bys  gôch  o  eryri  ai  kant 


CYWYDD  I  FAIR 

[0  ysgriflyfr  yn  llaw  Llywelyn  Sion  o  Langewydd :  sef  Gasgliad 
o  hen  Brydyddiaeth  a  wnaethpwyd  tuag  1590.] 

Mair  yw  n  hyder  rag  perigl 
morwyn  wyr  y  miir  yn  arogl 
murain  nevawl  vain  vwnwgl 
mawr  yw  yn  gael  oi  müragl 
gorfF  diiw  Iwys  nyr  eglwys  rygl 
ag  airw  i  waed  o  garegl 

da  vair  loewair  olau  wemp 
dangos  rex  nyd  symplex  swmp 
da  beth  i  kevaist  dy  bump 
Uawenydd  chwaer  ddedwydd  chwimp 
da  anrheg  deg  yw  dy  dymp 
dwyn  diiw  goeth  da  iawn  dy  gamp 

diasgembwynt — dysg  iawn  bibl 
disgin  krist  di  drist  dew  drebl 
dwysgbarch  yth  vry  vair  dysg  bobl 
dysgaf  ganu  vel  disgibl 
dwysglaurgerdd  diiw  disglairgwbl 
dysg  deg  odl  pefr  dasg  digabl 

mawr  glaerlaes  Mair  egliir  lathr 
•  dysg  heb  gyd  ami  kaethvyd  kethr 
vab  diiw  gloew  hoew  loew  i  lythr 
er  gwresgin  kroes  garw  ysgwthr 
degn  wawd  Iwybr  dygyn  waedlithr 
dygyn  hoelion  orion  ariithr 

Mair  loew  megit  bias  kroew  sywgr 
krist  vab  diiw  aiirfab  air  vegr 
y wn  gwiw  gwbl  ymborth  an  gogr 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  311 

a  düw  er  dynion  deagr 
a  vynnoedd  bystl  a  vynegr 
ar  y  groes  dogn  loes  dygn  Iwgr 

piiraf  wawd  tavawd  tivedr 
ar  Ian  wyry  ar  lun  arodr 
hoew  vab  diiw  aeth  yn  hy vedr 
yth  vry  vair  ddawnair  ddianidr 
mal  haul  wybr  byw  Iwybr  baladr 
drwy  ffenestr  wawd  restr  o  wydr 

Mair  ürddedig  vendigedig 
etholedig  yth  aiilodau 
yarn  grist  wledig,  ddivethedig 
ior  ganedig  or  gwiw  nodau 

klyw  dy  warant,  klod  a  barant 
hwynt  ath  garant,  hawnt  iaith  gorau 
kar  dy  waison,  nid  yn  vraison 
kai  kul  glaison  rag  kael  gloesau 

kai  vawl  telyn,  nad  yn  gelyn 
kythraul  melyn,  kaeth  rol  moelau 
yn  dii  bwyllo,  wan  godwyllo 
er  kiir  bwyllo,  Tr  korr  byllau 

dwg  vorynion,  a  gwyr  gwynion 
a  hoU  ddynion  o  holl  ddoniau 
ras  wawd  baredd,  heb  waith  karedd 
yth  driigaredd,  oth  dro  gorau 

dwg  brydyddion,  yn  wyr  ryddion 
awenyddion,  i  wiw  noddau 
kair  yn  Uawen,  gair  gorawen 
o  gain  awen  wiw  genauau 


morwyn  bwysyd  maint  yth  gwysyd 
o  saint  hoewsyt,  a  santesau 
yt  arfaethant,  nef  a  wnaethant 
ag  a  \^Daetliant  egin  waethau 


312  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

mam  grist  geli,  seren  heli 
luna  seli,  Ian  j  sülau 
oportere,  nos  habere 
miserere,  moes  ar  airau 

Mair  ny  hena  grasia  plena 
sine  pena,  son  heb  poenau 
qui  vo  caris,  salutaris 
stela  maris  dalm  o  airau 

imperatrix,  consontatrix 
miseratrix,  mois  ar  otrau 
o  maria,  vyrgo  pia 
recte  via,  rag  tew  vaiau 

pe  peristi,  iesu  cristi 
sine  tristi,  son  nid  trjstau 
mundi  rosa,  et  presiosa 
esbesiosa  hysbys  oesau 

nwnc  yidamas,  et  ploramus 
adoramas,  daear  rwymau 
et  codamus,  at  vidamus 
te  lawdamus  tal  di  ammau 

Mair  vorwynaidd,  miir  addfwynaidd 
Mair  gyflawnaidd,  miir  gyflawnau 
er  dy  weddiant,  anrydeddiant 
er  dyveddiant,  er  duw  vaddan 

drwy  hoU  niver,  daear  diver 
pan  yth  river,  poen  iaith  rwy van 
ir  Ue  tradwys,  lie  maer  tadwys 
i  baradwys  o  bur  oedan 
ir  nef  teUr,  kerdd  ny  chelir 
yn  Ue  gwelir  yn  lliw  golau 

Mair  ywn  hyder  rag  perigl 

ieuan  ap  Bydderch  ap  ieuan  Uwyd  ai  kant  (i  Vair  o  Benn 
Rys,  medd  loloMorganwg.) 


PBYDYDDIAETH.  313 

AWDL  FR  BRENIN  HARRI'R  SEITHFED. 
(0  Lyfr  Hafod  Uchtryd.) 

MoROo  mawrwyrthiog  a  roes  Tn  Harri 
Caiff  hiroedl  ac  einioes 
A  ffared  Grist  ffrydiau  croes 
I  fab  lemwnt  f  jw  bumoes. 

Oes  oesoedd  rhaid  oedd  anrhydeddwr  Lloegr 
Llugom  Genedl  Dewdwr 
Na  bai  raid  ofni  Bradwr, 
Na  llanw  gwyllt,  na  llew  na  gŵr. 

Nis  Uadd  gwr  na  thwr  na  tharan  na  draig 
Na  dragwn  na  Melldan, 
Nag  arswyded  grys  sidan 
Neidr  na  thwyll  na  dwr  na  than. 

Er  Tan  nag  ymwan  na  bo  gwaith  na  Pliolax 
Na  phelydr  Marchogaeth, 
Nag  a  gwenwyn  goginiaeth 
Na  ffonn  sais  na  phenn  i  saeth. 

Er  saith  na  bo  gwaith  na  draig  wen  na  glaif 

Neu  gledd  nag  ysgien*  ♦  Ysgien,  a  rapier. 

Na  glin  March  nag  olwyn  Menn  I.  M. 

Na  chyhyrwayw  na  ch warren. 

Chwarren,  teg  i  benn  nyw  baidd  na  bwa 
Na  bwyall  na  dymflaidd 
Gwaew  nag  isam  haearnaidd, 
Geneu  blwng  neu  gi  na  blaidd. 

Na  bleiddiau  dëau  neu  ysdiwart  Gwyddil 
Nag  Iddew  neu  Lwmbart 
Na  byw  osier  na  Baslart 
Na  maen  o  dwr  na  min  dart, 


3 1 4  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

Na  Llewpart  na  dart  na  daint  anghenfil 
Na  henfaedd  o  grynfaint 
Na  chjm  hydd  na  char  na  haint 
Na  dihennydd  ond  henaint. 

Henaint  a  rann  saint  Tr  Ynjs  honn 

Harri  a  adon  jn  hir  oediog 
Mair  Gabriel  Sariel  Tomas  Uriel 

Mihangel,  Bhiniel,  a  fo  rhannog, 
Nawdd  Bened,  Bemed,  yn  lie  i  bamo 

A  nawdd  Duw  amo  a  nawdd  Dymog 
Brothen  a  Sullen  a  Sain  Silin, 

Buan,  Cylynin,  Beuno  Clynog, 
Cynin  ai  weision,  Gynan  Assaf, 

Cowrdaf  Gar  Eudaf  fab  Gariadog, 
GoUen,  Uaw  Elien  a  Llywelyn 

Gynwyd  Gynfelyn.  Cedwyn  Gadog, 
Gadfan  a  Dyfhan  ys  da  Dyfnig, 

Garon  a  Churig  Padrig,  Pedrog, 
Peris,  Gristiolis,  Denis,  Dwynwen, 

Pedr,  leuan,  Gwnnen,  Padam,  Gwnnog, 
Sain  Ffagan,  Afan  esgob  Ifor, 

Sain  Orugor,  Sain  Sior,  Môr,  a  Mwrog. 
Sain  Glar  nawdd  liar,  a  Ghynddilig, 

Sain  Domnig,  Peblig,  Meilig,  Maelog, 
Dochwyn,  a  Theccwyn,  ef  a  Thyccwy, 

Dochdwy,  Gwenfrewi,  a  Thyfri'og. 
Derfel,  a  Dwyfel,  a  Gredifel, 

Dogfel,  nai  Daniel,  a  nawdd  Dwynog, 
Deinioel,  a  Seirioel,  a  nawdd  Saeran, 

Dirdan,  Ystyffan,  Gynan,  Gynnog, 
Deiniolen,  Llowdden,  Cathen,  Geithyw, 

Dewi  0  Fynyw,  nawdd  Dyfaenog, 
Tybie,  Nonn,  Einion  yna, 

Tegla,  Agatha,  Anna  Enwog, 
Tanwg  a  Thrinio,  lago  Egwad, 

Tyssylio,  Lleuddad,  Tyssul,  Llwyddog, 
Lawres  ai  croeses,  marc  a  Bhissiart, 

Luwc,  Lambart,  Edwart,  a  Thyfrydog, 
A  dodi  iechyd  o  Dydecho, 

A  Theilo  iddo,  a  Thylyddog. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  315 

Yn  Arglwydd  Bhismwnt  lor  hv^Tit  y  rhed 
Yn  Arglwydd  Swmrsed  a  gred  i>  grog, 
Yn  Farchog  urddol  y  detholwn, 

Yn  eurlliw  i  ŵn,  yn  larll  enwog. 
Yn  ddug  i  weled,  newydd  goler, 

Inni  Dewiser  yn  Dywysog, 
Ag  yn  Frenin  Gorllewin  Llywiawdr 
Ag  yn  Ymerawdr  y  g\ma  Mwrog. 
jrdd  Nantmor  ai  cant.     (Quaere  ?)     Ai  nid  rhy  ddiweddar 
i  fod  yn  waith  Dafydd  Nanmor,  yr  oedd  y  Bardd  hwnnw 
N  yn  amser  Rhys  Goch  Eryri. 

(Rhys  Nanmor  medd  Llyfr  arall.) 
nae  fal  hynn  mewn  un  llyfr  a  welais  yn  Hafod  Uchtryd. 
d  Nanmor  ap  Rhys  Nanmor  o  Faenor  Fynyw,  ap  Dafydd 
Dr  o  Wynedd  y  Bardd. — I.  M. 


LLYMA  GYWYDD  MAWL 

it   Gutto'r  Glynn   i  Ddafydd   Llwyd  o  Gedewain  am  yr 
Eisteddfod  a  wnaeth  efe  ir  Beirdd  yn  ei  Dy.  ar 
uchelwyl  y  Sul  Gwynn. 

Dafydd  maeV  Beirdd  yn  dyfod, 
DawV  Gler  oil  ith  dy  ar  glod, 
Dafydd  fab  Dafydd  fy  Ion, 
Da  **  rannwyd  orvvyr  Einion 
Dyfal  maeV  Beirdd  yn  d**  ofyn 
Dafydd  Llwyd  difaddau  llynn, 
Degle'fab  carediglwyd 
Tra  fych  cymmanfa  Tref  wyd. 
Ty  sydd  yt  tes  oi  ddeuty 
Teg  ael  Glynn  Tywyn  ywV  Ty, 
Ty  Dde\id  dai  fri'^n  dy  Fro 
Neu  Sin  yr  Ynys  yno, 
Ynys  y  Saint  neu  Sain  Siam 
Ysbyttu  Eos  Bettam. 
Pererindawd  pob  rhandir 
Pab  Rhufain  Cydewain  dir, 
Gadell  ail  i"'n  cadw  oil  wyd 
Cu  Deymllew  cadamllwyd, 
2   8 


316  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

Croes  naid  cywiriaid  Ceri, 
Cydewain  Nudd  a'n  ceidw  ni, 
Ni  chiliaist  ni  ochelud 
I  Arbed  traul  o'r  Byd  drud, 
A  dal  ty  y  dulwyd  hael 
A  rhoi  da  Tr  rhai  diwael, 
Pei  brenin,  Pab  yr  Ynys, 

0  daw  ith  wlad  aed  ith  Lys, 
Pob  clerwr  pob  rhodiwr  hy 
Pobl  attad  pawb  iw  letty, 

Pob  Gwann  hyd  ym  Morganwg, 
Pob  ffol  mal  pei'r  Pab  a  Ffi/Dff. 
Pob  genau  pawb  a  ganawdd, 
Byth  yt  a  llyna  beth  hawdd, 
Po  amla  fo  cerdd  dafawd 
Anhawsa  fydd  cael  fftcyddgwawd^ 
Ag  e  oedd  ar  gywydd  ym 
Goed  talm  pei  gattai  wilym 
Mae  deufin  ir  mau  dafawd 

1  dorri  ffwydd^  Deri  gwawd^ 
Naddu  mae**!  awenyddion 
Eu  gwawd  fry  o  goed  y  froDn, 
Fel  nas  gellir  in  hiroed 
Gad  defnydd  cywydd  o'r  coed^ 
Aeth  y  Gwydd  ith  gytcyddau 
A\ffridd  nid  hir  ei  pharhâu. 
Dau  a  chywyddau  i  chwi 
Drwy  fydr  yn  ymdrafodi, 
Stcrdtcal  waisg  Saer  dilysgerdd 
Yn  bwrw  coed  i  beri  cerddy 
Llawdden  iCrfwyall  eiddaw 
Ni  ad  wydd  deunydd  lie  daw, 
Ehangwaith  yw  ei  hoengerdd 
Lladd  coed  er  aUweddau  cerddy 
Dau  ydynt  o'u  dyedir 

Ni  adant  hwy  goed  fn  tir. 
Ychydig  yw  coed  brig  bronn 
Yn  eu  hoi  yn  feehilion, 
Naddu  cerdd  newyddu  coed 
Nid  aV  wangyll  na  dreingoed^ 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  317 

Deehreu  gwawd  dioehri*  gwydd      ♦  dyochri  I.  M. 

Etto  Md  wyf  itti  Ddafydd, 

Ym  mhen  Catterwen  teiriaith 

Mae  He  M  roi  mwyaU  ar  teaith^ 

O  derfydd  eoedydd  ceudawd 

Dafydd  ti  yw  gwydd  tai  gwawd 

Ctoreu  deunydd  Ddafydd  wyd 

Gwydd  atodl  neu  gywydd  ydwyd. 

TÎ  yw  coed  Deunydd  Ty  Cerdd, 

Trafn  iawngefn  trefni  angerdd, 

Trawst  ein  iaith  trosti  ai  nenn 

Ai  chambost  ai  gwych  ymben. 

Post  union  o  Einion  ym, 

A  Ghalon  wych  o  Wilym, 

Catterwen  Ceri  wenn  wyl, 

Coed  nenn  Cydewain  anwyl, 

Tre  tad  nid  rhaid  dy  oedi, 

A  Bwrdd  Tal  y  Beirdd  wyt  ti, 

Ifor  y  dref  aV  ford  rydd 

Nid  Ifor  un  ond  Dafydd, 

Un  hyfryd  yng  nglann  Hafren 

Anhyfryd  Byd  hebddo''n  Benn. 

Gutto'^r  Glynn  ai  cant. 
(0  Lyfr  Mr.  Dafies,  Penegos.) 


CYWYDD  MARWNAD  LLAWDDEN  FARDD. 

OcH  am  Lawdden  y  leni 
O  brudd  nwyf  a  gwae'n  Beirdd  ni 
Awen  gatterwen  torred 
A  grym  Barddoniaeth  holl  gred, 
Bwrw  Saer  gwawd  tafawd  hyfedr, 
Berw  eurwawd  bwy  m>vy  ai  medr, 
Bwrw  pencerdd  bu  wr  pynciau, 
Bu  hoyw  dra  fu'n  eu  bywhau, 
Bardd  ydoedd  nid  Braiddwydiwr 
Buan  au  wawd  a  bu'n  wr, 
Tydain  ddoeth  Tad  Awen  dda, 
Taliesin  Teuiu  Asia^ 


318  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

Adferai  diau  fimad 

A  gwirddawn  glaer  gerdd  ein  gwlad, 

Adferyd  celfyddyd  faith 

Gain  geraint  Can  ag  araith 

Dyn  a  fu**!!  dwyn  ỳ  Fwyall 

Yn  bann  ai  caid  ai  benn  call, 

A  gwr  oedd  un  goreul  air 

A  gaid  yn  dwyn  dwy  gadair 

Aur  gadair  ddianair  ddysg 

Caerfyrddin  carai  fawrddysg 

Cadair  untcedd  ae  gweddai 

A  mawredd  Gtcynedd  a  gai, 

A  bwyall  Aur^  da^i  bwyll  oedd, 

Morganwg  lie  maeV  gwinoedd, 

Llyna  Fardd  llawn  ei  fawrddysg 

un  mawr  oedd  Llawdden  i'n  mysg, 

Trefnau  Bol  tra  fu'^n  wr  hardd 

0  iawn  brawf  imi'^n  Brifardd. 
EAol  rhytdau  memrau  sydd 
Ar  waith  parodiaith  Prydydd. 
Rhol  adiau  oedd  ry  lychwin 
Ei  threfn  cyn  iddaw  ei  thrin 
Rhol  Statud^  nid  mud  y  mawl 
A  nillai  ynddi'^n  oUawl, 

Bhol  hylwydd  pob  Cyfneyddyd 
Ar  gampau  gwybodau  byd. 
Pwy  mor  Ian  a  gân  i  goed 
Hoewblaid  agwedd  blodeugoed ! 
Pwy  a  gân  Serch  i  ferch  fain  ! 
Ag  eurwawd  gwr  mor  gywrain  Î 
Pwy  ar  wydd  un  gelfydd  gainc  Ì 
Ag  eilgamp  pwy  ar  godgainCy 
Pwy  ai  nadd  cerdd  mor  addwyn 

1  gariaw  mawl  a^r  gwr  mwyn  \ 
BwyaJU  oedd  drwy  bwyll  iddaw 
Un  a  wnai  les  yn  ei  law, 

Ai  holion  gwych  ei  helynt 
Ar  wawd  y  gerdd  dafawd  ynt, 
Ef  a  naddaPvL  fwyn  wiwddoeth 
]Bi  luniaidd  wawd  ai  law'^n  ddoeth. 


PRYDYDDIAETH,  319 

Ar  ftydd  rhoi  hoyw  arwyddon 
lawn  ei  hwyl  a  wnai  a  honn, 
Bhoddai'n  ei  gerdd  ryw  ddawn  gall 
A  fai  yn  0Í  eifwyaU^ 
A  naddafr  cynghaneddion 
Mai  Prifardd  yn  hardd  a  honn 
Pob  mann  heb  gel  fe  welir 
Ei  hoi  naturiol  Tn  tir, 
Ar  bob  can,  a^i  hamcan  hi, 
Rhoi  gwarant,  a  rhagori, 
Gwarant  yw  i  bob  byw  byd 
Gloewfoddion  ei  gelfyddyd, 
Ar  bob  cynghanedd  meddaf 
Y  gwir  ar  ddosparth  a  gaf, 
Ar  bob  mesur  pur  ywV  pwyll 
lawn  ddodiad  odlau'^n  ddidwyll 
Am  saerwaith  y  mesurau 
Nid  oes  o  braidd  fwy  na  dau 
Fal  ef  ai  gwyr  Uwyr  wellhad 
Newyddodd  dduU  ei  naddiad 
Gwyddai  rif  campauV  Prifeirdd 
HoU  Rolau  gwybodau  Beirdd, 
Pob  swydd  a  phob  cyfrwyddyd 
A  gwaith  athraw  cerdd  i  gyd. 
Athraw  honddawn  athronddysg 
Awenaidd  oedd  yn  ei  ddysg 
Disgybl  efe  ai  dysgai 
Dasg  lawn  ag  yn  iawn  y  gwnai, 
Uwned  a  roe  mhlith  dynion 
Dawn  hoeyw  o  rodd  Duw  yn  honn. 
Rhoi  gwellhad  gwirgall  ydoedd 
Ar  waith  can  ei  amcan  oedd, 
Rhoe  iach  ystyr  gorchestawl 
Ar  iaith  ai  mydr,  eurwaith  mawl, 
A  Rhoi  lefn  a  threfn  a  thrin 
Ar  fawrddysg  ymhaerfi/rddin 
Rhoe  Rol^  rhag  afrëol  fraith 
Oferfeirdd,  a  fu'n  fawrfaith, 
Defodau  difai  ydynt 
Rhyêfab  Tewdtcr^  daV  g^^r  gynt 


320  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

A  Ehol  Arthur  o  bar  barch 

Da  hefyd  a  dihafarch, 

Athraw  jm  oedd  aeth  a^r  mawl 

Am  wybodau  mebydawl 

Am  gelfyddyd  gwyofyd  gwr 

A  medrai  bob  gwaith  mydrwr, 

Gwae  oer  a  brwyn  gwae  awr  bradd 

Gwr  ai  hoffai  mab  Gruffudd 

Ab  Nicolas  ai  dras  draw 

Ai  genedl  d^i  fawr  gwynaw. 

I'n  hoes  bwy  geir  i  iawnhau 

Deddf  adail  Eisteddfodau 

wedi  Llawdden  dall  heddyw 

ydynt  feirdd  am  nad  yn  fyw 

Un  ai  dysgai**!!  benn  dwysgwbl 

Ar  waith  Hen  ag  awen  gwbl, 

Mae**!!  y  bedd  gwae  ni  heddyw,     Aeth  Vr  bedd.  al. 

Ai  fath  ni  welir  yn  fyw, 

Aeth  Llawdden  ai  dalcen  doeth 

yr  unwedd  a  gwr  annoeth. 

Aeth  i  Gôr  bencynghor  cant 

Ar  ei  61  a  fawr  wylant, 

Lie  ochaf,  yng  Nglynn  Llychwr  C^ynn,  Uyfr 

Ym  medd  y  gorwedd  y  gwr,  arall.) 

Yng  Ngwyddfa,  oer  drigfa  draw, 

Ei  dylwyth  yn  Llandeilaw, 

Ai  enaid  aeth  yn  uniawn 

I'r  nef  mewn  hedd  i  wledd  lawn. 

Ag  yno'n  fardd  ai  gan  fyth 

Yn  addoli  Duw'^n  ddilyui. 

A  minnau  fal  y  mynor  J^ 

Yn  wylaw  a^m  Tathraw'^n  for. 

lorwerth  Fynglwyd  ai  cant. 

lorwerth  Fynglwyd  yn  ymweled  a  Bedd  Llawdden  Fardd 
Mynwent  Llandeilo  Tal  y  Bont,  a  gant  yr  Englyn  hwnn. 

Llawdden  ai  Awen  Eos  a  ballodd, 
Pwy  bellach  i'n  dangos ! 
Dan  y  ddaear  mae'^n  aros; 
Dall  yw'^n  laith  mae'n  dywyll  nos. 

lorwerth  Fynglwyd  ai  cant. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  321 


YWYDD  I  OFYN  RHWYD  BYSGOTTA  Al  DDYFALU. 

Ipan  ddoeth  o  fewn  ei  ddydd, 

Gt)reu''i  ofeg  ai  grefydd, 

Pendefig  pwy  un  dyfiad 

Penadur  o  Dadur  dad, 

Llin  union  llew  un  anwyd, 

Llaw  Nudd  a  llin  Ruffudd  llwyd. 

Hil  ag  ettifedd  haelwych, 

Hael  un  fraint  o  HeiUn  frych, 

Ni  bu  Eryr  na  Barwn 

Mor  hael  ac  fu**!  Cymro  hwn, 

Da  wr  i  fodd  dewr  ar  farch 

Wyd  y  llew  o  waed  Llowarch, 

Da  yw'*r  lliw  y  darllewr, 

Da  dy  nerth  od  adwaen  wr, 

Dy  ras  sy  un  dro  o  Siob 

Yn*  ddysg  fel  Dafydd  Esgob  *  Dy 

Mowrddysg  synhwyrau  Merddin, 

MaeV  ddwy  gyfraith  faith  iHh  fin, 

Mewn  dadl  ni  chaid  man  didwyll, 

Cymen  ond  oHh  ben  aHh  bwyll, 

Drudwych  yn  y  frwydr  ydwyd, 

A  Sant  yn  yr  Eglwys  wyd, 

Oen  difalch  yn  y  dafarn 

Athraw  y  beilch  wrth  roi  barn, 

Yn  wr  tal  yn  yr  oed  dydd 

Yn  Ifor  yn  Llan  Ufydd, 

Pawb  a  wyr  bod  tafod  doeth 

I  chwi  Ifan  a  chyfoeth, 

Poed  hir,  gair  gwir,  y  gwr  gwych, 

A  fo'*ch  perth  Tachwyn  wrthych, 

hel  'rwyf  heolauV  Afon 

Ar  hyd  dwr  a  dryll  rhwyd  don 

Gweled  pysgod  brig  Alun 

GwilioV  wyf  heb  gael  yr  un, 

PraflF  awdur  in  profiwydwyd 

Prudd  yw  Meredydd  am  rwyd 


322  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

Efo  i  praw,  gwell  gan  fab  Rhys, 
EithaV  dwr  no  thir  dyrus 
Esinid  iV  af  iV  Afon 
A  chael  haf  i  chwilio  hon 
A  chael  unwaith  ei  cheulennydd, 
A  chael  rwyd  uchelwr  rhydd, 
Mae  rhwyd  Ian  mawr  huodl  lor, 
I  chwi  Ifan  awch  Ifor, 
O  cha  rodd  chwenychuV  wyf 
iwch  rhwyd  aM  herchi  ydwyf, 
Rhawd  frythylliaid  o  rhodir 
Rhwng  deuddyn  a  dyn  i  dir, 
Ei  dwy  ffbn  ydyw  ei  ffyniant, 
Ai  diwyd  waith  ai  dau  dant, 
Ai  gwydraidd  blwm  iV  godrau, 
A  thramwy  hbn  iV  thrymhau, 
fry  yn  bert  yw  dwyfron  barch, 
Obry'^n  gau  wybren  gowarch 
Gwe  deg  i  anrhegu  dyn, 
Gannaid  fal  diliau  gwenyn, 
Brwydrai'r  dwr  bwriad  ar  dant 
Breccini  Aber  Geunant. 
Lluric  o  waith  llaw  wrol, 
Llaes  ei  hun  llawes  o'^i  hoi, 
Dwr  hardd  a  dorriV  a  hi 
Dwr  a  dreiddia  dioer  drwyddi, 
Drwy  y  dwfr  dy  rwyd  Ifan 
A  ddaw  o  led  iV  ddwy  Ian, 
Gras  mawr  y  grawys  ym  oedd 
Grael  rhwyd  a  gwilio  rhydoedd, 
Ai  chael  yn  rhodd  gennych  chwi, 
A  cherdd  hwdiwch  chwi  erddi 
Meredydd  ap  Rhys  ai  Cant  o  ddeutuV  flwyddyn  1440. 

COWYDD  I  DDIOLCH  AM  Y  RHWYD 

Pa  wr  ydwyf  tra  fwyf  iach  ? 
Pysgodwr  pwy  esgudach ! 
A  mil  0  bysgod  Maelawr, 
Ar  fy  mwrdd  llyna  rif  mawr 


PRYDYDDIAETH. 


823 


pawb  yno  sydd  pob  nos  lau 
yn  aros  y  Gtcenerau:, 
Deliais  ar  Nos  Nydolig 
Pam  waeth  dydd  caeth  no  dydd  dg  f 
Hawdd  Amor  iV  Gatcoriau, 
Hawdd  fyd  bwrwV  Ynyd  brau. 
Pam  na  ddaw  y  garawys 
Fal  y  daw  Mefiliau  dwys, 
Ystyried  ter  Ystor  ty 
0  Rwyd  ami  a  roed  ymy. 
Ysgo  ebrwydd  ysgybwraig, 
Ysgipiol  ar  ol  yr  aig, 
Man  a  bras  y  mae'^n  brysur 
A  ddeil  y  rhwyd  a  ddyluV  hur, 
Pwy  ai  rhoes  o  hap  a  rhan  Ì 
Pendefig  pwy  and  Ifan, 
Ap  Tudur,  Awdur  ydyw, 
Llew  doeth  ap  Giiiffudd  Llwyd  yw 
Llin  Heilin  (llan  i  hiloedd) 
Frych^  ai  law  ail  Frochwel  oedd 
LlynaV  mab  oV  Hun  a>  modd 
Yn  wr  addwyn  a  wreiddodd, 
Bonheddigaidd  ywV  gwraiddyn 
O  Bwriwyd  twf  ar  brŷd  dyn, 
Gwraidd  a  geidw  i  gweryl, 
Gwalchraai  y  galwai  ai  gwyl, 
Gwr  dryd,  wrth  egoriV  drin, 
fo  ar  wanas  iw  frenin  ; 
Gwr  yn  rhaid  gvvir  anrhydedd 
Gwych  ei  law  a  gwaew  a  chledd 
Ar  ddydd  ef  a  wyr  ddyddio 
Ac  ar  far  goreu  yw  fo, 
Heliwr  ywV  gwr  a  garwn, 
Hoedl  hir  fo  Yv  huawdl  hwn, 
Helied  Ifan  had  dyfiad 
Ar  ei  dir  teg  wir  dre  Tad, 
Mewn  awr  dda  minnau  ar  ddŵr 
O  fodd  hael  a  fydd  heliwr, 
Mahog  wyc'h  mwyedig  wedd 
lawn  genau  Owain  Gwynedd, 
2t 


(Mai  y  daw  mywil- 
[iau  dwyi) 


-OJ 


324  PBYDYDDIAETH. 


Ni  fjnnfti  dir,  TeDaid  oedd, 
Na  da  mawr  ond  y  moroedd, 
Madog  wyf  im  oed  ai  gais 
ar  foroedd  hyn  arferais, 
Rhodiaf  hyd  For  ag  Afon 
ar  hyd  eu  gro  a'm  rhwyd  gron 
Gwell  bod  yn  wraig  pysgodwr 
Nog  Tr  rhai  nid  elai  Vr  dwr 
Pedr  gwr  mawr  eu  hap  ydoedd 
Pysgodwr  oreugwr  oedd, 
Ir  un  helwriaeth  Vr  af 
Mwy  no  Phedr  mi  ni  pheidaf 

Meredydd  ap  Rhys  ai  Gani 


CYWYDD 

I  ofyn  benthyg  y  Grëal,  i  Dryhaeam  ab  leuan  Amheyrig  abHy 
Gam,  o  Waun  llwg,  Dros  Abad  Llanegwestl. 

Oed  Triwyr  yt  Tryhaeam 
Awdur  Beirdd  i  dorri  Bam, 
Ab  leuan  Ben  o  Ben  Bhôs, 
Amheurig  wyd  i'm  haros, 
Yr  ail  gwr  o  Hywel  Gam 
Y  Trydydd  at  Ryw  Adam, 
Cyd-teym  yw  Coed  teymaidd 
Cynfyn  a  Bleddyn  a  Blaidd, 
Dy  Lîn  o  Wysg  i  Lynn  Nedd, 
Dy  Genedl  Deau  a  Gwynedd, 
Dy  waed  rhywiog  Tryhaeam, 
Dy  ddiwedd  byd  fo  Dydd  Bam, 
Gwreiddodd  a  cherddodd  ych  lau 
Glod  Dwywent  a  Gwlad  Dean 
Llygaid  Gwaun  Llwg  wyd  i  gyd, 
Llaw  a  Llyfr  y  Ueill  hefyd, 
Aberthau  gwybodau'^n  bur 
A  barthaist  mal  bu  Arthur, 
Llaw  Nudd  Caerllion  oeddycb, 
A'i  llu  a  ddo'nt  iV  lleMd  ych. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  325 

Genau  dysg  Beirdd  Moi^nwg, 
Gwiw  enau  Lien  Tir  Gh^aun  Llwg, 
G^nau  holl  gampau  Gwjnedd 
O  Deimion  wyd  i  Dir  Nedd 
A  thafod  ein  laith  hyfedr, 
Tad  ai  maeth  tydi  ai  medr, 
Awn  fch  Cwrt  yno  y^ch  cair 
Uwch  HawlSbrdd  faJ  Uchelffair 
Wyth  gan  mil  aHh  ganmolant, 
OV  Beŵo  i  Benfro  Bant 
Doeth  wyneb,  da  Tth  enwîr, 
Defodau  holl  Dyfed  hir, 
O  Aber  teg,  lie  berw  tonn, 
Daugleddan  hyd  G^lyddon, 
Un  o  weilch  a*"!  waew  ai  Nerth, 
larll  Herbert  gerllaw  Arberth 
A  chael  henw,  uwchlaw  hynny, 
Wyth  wlâd  dy  hûn  a  thai  Ty ; 
Enw  Dysgawdr  Uywiawdr  pob  Lion, 
Un  mesur  ag  enw  Moesen 

Abad,  o'n  gwlad  a  wna^n  gwledd, 
LlaDegwestl  oil  un  agwedd, 
Un  gost  gwin  a  rhost  yn  rhydd 
Yw'ch  dwyfort  chwi  a  Dafydd  ; 
Un  ddiwig  yn  y  Ddwyallt 
Eithr  ei  wisg  a  thorr  ei  wallt, 
Holl  Gymry  yn  y  Ty  tau, 
Holl  Wentoedd,  felly  yntau ; 
Ef  o  i  wraidd  y  Gyfrwyddyd, 
Chwithau  o  ^Vybodau  Byd, 
Holl  Wynedd  yma'n  Uinyn, 
Wythwlad  Gwent  ith  loywdy  gwynn 

Gwybodau  Argyffrau  Gwj^dd 
Gwirio  Mdwyf  a  gar  Ddafydd 
Am  un  llyfr  y  mae^n  llefain 
A  gar  mwy  nag  Aur,  a  Main, 
A  chwynfawr  am  Teh  anfon 
Y  Greal  teg  i'r  wlad  honn, 
Llyfr  y  Gwaed,  llyfrau  y  Gwỳr, 
Lie  svrthynt  yn  Llys  Arthur, 


326  PRYDYDDIAETH. 


Llyfr  am  enwog  Farchogion, 

Llyfr  teg  râdd  yr  holl  fort  gronn ; 

Llyfr  etto  yn  Hawfiryttwn, 

Llin  Hors  ni  ddarllenai  hwn ; 

Benthig  hwn  Bennaeth  y  Cor, 

A  gais  Dafydd  Gost  Ifôr, 

Brenhinllyfr  Barwn  henllwyd, 

Bes  cai  byw  fyddai  heb  fwyd, 

Swnd*  menych  sy'n  dymunaw  (*  Saint) 

Sain  Greal  i  Dir  lal  draw ; 

A  thrachefh  ni  tharia  chwaith, 

O  Dir  lal  y  daw'r  eilwaith, 

Y  Gutto  Ef  ai  Gattel, 

Eich  hen  Ddall  ywch  yny  ddel. 

Da  Duw  fal  o  Dai  Dewi, 

Diau  y  Tal  daw  i  Ti. 

GuttoV  Glynn  ai  cant. 


Y  maeV  copi  sydd  yma'*n  llawnach  nag  on  oV  copiau  enoll; 
felly  y  gwelir  ambell  cywydd  arall ;  a'r  achos  bod  rhai  feUy  sy'n 
lied  amlwg,  sef  y  Prydydd  yn  gwellhau  ag  yn  chwanega  at  ei 
gywydd,  ag  yn  rhoi  allan  copiau  oV  cyfipyw  gywydd  neu  awdl  mwy 
cwbledig ; — ond  nid  cyn  y  boV  un  cyntaf  wedi  cael  ei  gopio,  falUi 
gan  lawer  un,  mwy  neu  lai  yn  amrafaelu  ar  y  llall  aV  UailL  Y 
mae  amrafaeliadau,  hefyd,  wedi  cymmeryd  lie  achos  gwalka  ac 
ysgaelusdod  ysgrifyddion ;  ag  hefyd,  mae'^n  debyg  ddigon,  drwy 
fed  ambell  un  a  fedrau  hynny  yn  gwellhau,  neu  yn  tybied  ei 
fed  yn  gwellhau,  rhai  bethau;  eraill  yn  ysgrifenu  oddiwrA  a 
wypai  ar  dafod,  a  thrwy  anghof,  yn  camddatgan  rhai  bethau,  p 
camlcaw  eraill,  ag  yn  ^idael  allan  ar  anghof  ambell  peth. 

I.   MOBO. 

Y  mae  lolo  Morganwg,  rhwng  y  cywydd  aV  synniadau,  yn  yr 
ysgrif  dann  olwg,  yn  cyfeirio  at  ysgrifau  eraill  oU  eiddo ;  ym  mb 
rhai,  hefyd,  y  mae  y  cyfryw  gywydd  yn  gynnwysedig ; — ag  yna 
yn  myned  ym  mlaen  fal  uchod. — Ab  Iolo. 


PRYDYDDIAETH.  327 


CYWYDD  I  OFYN  Y  GREAL  I  ABAD  GLYNN  NEDD. 

Y  GwR  aV  Llyfr  geirwir  Uwyd 
O  Lynn  Nedd  a  lunîeîddwyd, 
A  drawdd  mewn  deuair  neu  dri 
Gymmendod  Magamwndi, 
Saith  gwybod  da  cydnodwn 
Mae'*n  y  saith  ym  mynwes  hwnn, 
Gramer  a  flFyrfder  y  flFjrdd 
Grym  deugain  Gramadegydd, 
Ym  mewn  art  y  mae  yn  wr 
Mewn  suful  y  mae^n  waesafwr, 
Mewn  soflFstri  mae'*n  berwi'^n  bur 
Mewn  Miwsig  mwy  na  mesur. 
Nid  oes  ysgolhaig  na  dau 

Yn  y  byd  un  wybodau, 
Mae  dysg  ar  feddiant  gantaw 
Mae'n  wr  drych  o  mynnir  draw. 
E  wnai  benn  a  fai'n  y  byd 
Pris  ei  ddadl,  pres  ei  ddVedyd, 
Purhaed  y  Pab  purwaed  pell 
Penn  Rhydychen  ai  dichell, 
Ei  frodyr  oedd  ""n  ei  f>vrw  draw, 
Ai  frawd  oedd  yn  frad  iddaw 
y  modd  yr  aeth  dros  draeth  dro 

Y  Ffair  at  Frenin  Ffaro. 
A  mab  neuaf  Addaf  oedd 
Breuddwydiwr  a  Bardd  ydoedd, 
Serchog  a  rhywiog  y  rhôn, 
Sioseb  nid  un  ar  Saeson, 
Meibion  Ysrael  wiwrael  wenn 
Ym  meusydd  medd  Llyfr  Moesen. 

Gwelai  o'r  haul  iV  gilydd  (i. — I.  M. 

Y  Ueuad  oil  a  lliw  dydd, 
Hwynteu'n  addoli'r  lleuad 
Hoedd  a  Ser  i  ddewis  had. 

Y  Braonar  arddodd  Breiiin, 
Brynn  a  phant  a  Bronn  a  ffin. 


328  PRYDYDDIAETH. 

Diwaith  wedi  doeth  ydoedd, 

Dasau  o  yd  eisiau  oedd, 

E  gad  dangos  had  Sioseb 

yd  a  nerth  heb  oedi  neb, 

Danfoned  Syr  dan  fonedd 

Lewya*  i  ni  i  Lys  nedd,  (o  a/. — I.  M.) 

Gweddol  i  sardio  geudduw 

A  gwedd  deg  gweddio  Duw, 

Ag  o  chaf  gan  fab  Dafydd, 

Lyfr  yr  hawg  dilwfr  ai  rhydd, 

Y  Greal  erbyn  Grawys, 

Dail  beilch  ef  a  dal  ei  bwys, 

Cawn  frig  Oyfraith  Sain  Grigor 

Cawn  bylgain  cywrain  mewn  cor, 

Ynol  gosper  lleferydd 

Mawl  i  Fair  yn  ami  a  fydd 

Da  gan  Dduw  hael  gael  ar  gan 

Dawn  eurgerdd  ar  don  organ, 

Careglau  Uyfrau  nid  Hid 

Llonn  ar  air  rhydd  llin  Birid, 

lach  Baun  dysg  uwch  benn  ei  dad, 

A  gai  arwydd  o^i  gariad, 

Beunydd  i'm  cywydd  e'*m  caid 

I  ganu  rhag  ei  enaid, 

OV  Cỳr  y  rhoe  y  Oarwr       (Oỳr  plur.  a  Cor.) 

A  dynn  dyn  o  dan  y  dwr  I.  M. 

Ei  rodd  rag  gorfod  goddef 

Degan  aur  a'n  dwg  i  Nef. 

leuan  Du'r  Bilwg  ai  cant. 

*  Lewys  ab  Dafydd,  Abad  Glynn  [Nedd]  Mab  Dafydd  IMu 
OflFeiriad,  o  Lynn  Nedd,  oedd  ef,  a  wnaeth  wasanaeth  Mair  yn 
Gymraeg. — Ant.  Powel. 


ENGLISH  TRANSLATION 


NOTES. 


I! 

M 


HISTORY. 


THE  GENEALOGY  OF  lESTYN,  THE  SON  OF  GWRGAN, 

PRINCE  OF  GLAMORGAN ;    TOGETHER  WITH  A  SHORT  ACCOUNT  OF 

THE  ACCOMPUSHMENTS  AND  ACHIEVEMENTS  OF 

THE  SEVERAL  PRINCES  IT  INCLUDES.l 


Ikottn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  the  son  of  Ithel,  the  son  of  Owen, 
the  son  of  Morgan  the  Aged,  who  was  called,  in  his  own  time, 
Morgan  the  Great,  the  son  of  Howel,  the  son  of  Bhjs,  the  son  of 
Arthfael,  the  son  of  Gweirydd,  the  son  of  Brochfael,  the  son  of 
Meyryg,  the  son  of  Arthfael,  the  son  of  Bhys,  the  son  of  Einydd, 
the  son  of  Morgan,  the  son  of  Adras,  the  son  of  Meyryg,  the  son 
of  Tewdric,  the  son  of  Teithfallt,  the  son  of  Nyniaw,  the  son  of 
Bran,  the  son  of  Edric,  the  son  of  Creirwy,  the  son  of  Meyryg, 
the  son  of  Meirchion,  the  son  of  Gwrgan  the  Freckled,  the  son  of 
Arthfael,  the  son  of  Einydd,  the  son  of  Gorddyfwn,  the  son  of 
Goryc  (alias  Goria,)  the  son  of  Eirchion  the  Thumb-warrior,  the 
son  of  Owen,  the  son  of  Cyllin,  the  son  of  Caradog,  the  son  of 
Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr,  the  son  of  Baran,  the  son  of  Ceri  of  the 
extensive  navy,  the  son  of  Caid,  the  son  of  Arch,  the  son  of  Meir- 
ion,  the  son  of  Ceraint,  the  son  of  Greidiol,  the  son  of  Dingad, 
the  son  of  Anyn,  the  son  of  Alafon,  the  son  of  Brywlais,  the  son 
of  Ceraint  the  Drunkard,  the  son  of  Berwyn,  the  son  of  Morgan, 
the  son  of  Bleddyn,  the  son  of  Bhun,  the  son  of  Idwal,  the  son  of 
Llywarch,  the  son  of  Calchwynydd,  the  son  of  Eoir  the  Bard, 
the  son  of  Ithel,  the  son  of  Llariau,  the  son  of  Tewged,  the  son  of 
Llyfeinydd,  the  son  of  Peredur,  the  son  of  Gweyrydd,  the  son  of 


>  From  one  of  MSS.  of  the  late  Mr.  Thomas  Truman,  of  PantUiwydd,  in 
tkt  parish  of  Llansannor,  Glamorganshire. — (See  Preface.) 

2u 


332  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

Ithon,  the  son  of  Cyraryw,  the  son  of  Brwth,  the  son  of  Selys  the 
Aged,  the  son  of  Annyn  of  Troy,  the  son  of  Prydain,  the  son  of 
Aedd  the  Great. 

1.  Annyn^  of  Troy,  called  in  leuan  Deulwyn's^  book,  Einicm 


1  In  this  personage,  who  is  here  introduced  as  the  patriarchal  stock  <^  the 
British  Royal  Lineage,  we  recognise  the  Trojan  Prince  JEaea&y  from  whom, 
also,  nearly  all  our  ancient  chronicles  trace  the  primitive  dynasty  of  this 
island. 

"Annyn  Dro"  signifies  Annyn  of  Troy ;  and,  from  some  connexions  here 
given,  his  identity  with  ^neas  cannot  reasonably  be  doubted :  but  the  latter 
name  deviates,  in  its  conformation,  from  Cimbric  appellations ;  whereas  An- 
nyn presents  a  term  that  would  very  probably  have  been  used  in  translation. 
Einion,  another  British  rendering,  presents  a  rather  analogous  form; 'but, 
notwithstanding  this  resemblance,  I  would  not  assert  that  it  is  one  of  the 
many  British  names  that  were,  during  the  Roman  occupation,  derived  from 
those  of  that  nation ;  for  it  may,  et3rmologically,  be  fairly  deduced  from  the 
Celtic  primitive  iawn,  which  signifies  right,  or  just. 

The  origin  and  fallacy  of  this  Trojan  descent,  claimed  by  the  Romans 
themselves,  and,  subsequently,  by  the  vanquished  nations  of  western  Europe, 
are  ably  examined  in  Gunn's  Nennius,  pp.  91,  &c.  to  whidi  the  reader  h 
referred. 

In  nearly  all  the  Welsh  chronicles,  the  cognomen  "  Ysgwydwyn,"  written 
also  "  Ysgwyddwyn"  by  Robert  Vaughan,  Esq.  of  Hengwrt,  and  others,  ÌB 
applied  to  iEneas;  and  it  has  been  rendered  "  Whiteshield*,  by  English 
translators.  The  Rev.  Peter  Roberts,  in  his  Collectanea  Cambrica,  VoL  I. 
p.  1.  says, — "  All  the  copies  I  have  seen  mark  this  distinction,  (Whiteahield,) 
the  intent  whereof  was  probably  to  signify  that  his  armorial  bearings  were 
(as  they  must  have  been)  unknown,  ^c."  This  translation  supposes  the 
Welsh  term  to  be  "  Ysgwydwynỳ^  unalterably  ;  and  .  to  be  formed  of  **  Yt- 
gwyd"  a  shield,  and  "^irynn,"  white :  but,  after  mature  consideration,  I  am 
induced  to  reject  this  hypothesis,  conceiving  that  the  word  is  **  Ysgwyddwyn," 
or  rather  "  Ysgioydd-ddwyn**  bemg  compounded  of  **Ysgwyddy**  a  ẁmUer, 
and  "</tryn,"  to  bear,  or  carry  away  ;  and  that,  hence,  ^neas  Ysgwyddwyn 
signifies  iEneas,  of  bearing  shoulder,  in  allusion  to  his  filial  devotion,  in  bear- 
ing away  his  father,  Anchises,  on  his  shoulders,  from  the  flames  of  Troy. 
But,  if  a  figurative  etymology  be  admitted,  (and  it  is  certainly  sustained  by 
classic  authority)  we  shall  conclude,  that  the  last  syllable  of  Y^wyddwsfni^ 
radically,  gwynn,  white,  but  signifying,  metaphorically,  blessed  (as  in  tiie 
phrase  "  Gwynn  ei  fyd," — blessed  is  he)  and  hence,  pious^  an  epithet  so  fri- 
quently  applied  to  iEneas  by  Virgil, — "  Pius  -^neas." 

2  leuan  Dculwyn,  a  Welsh  Bard  of  superior  genius,  and  a  native,  according 
to  some  notices,  of  Kidwelly,  Carmarthenshire,  flourished  between  14Ô0  and 
1490.  A  great  number  of  his  compositions  are  still  extant ;  being,  more  or 
less,  included  in  every  extensive  collection  of  rather  old  Welsh  poetry.    Al- 


lESTYN,   THE   SON   OF   GWRGAN.  333 

of  Troy,  was  the  first  king  of  Cambria."  He  was  the  son  of 
Prydain  the  son  of  Aedd  the  Great,  who  was  a  king  of  the 
Cimbric  nation  before  they  came  to  the  island  of  Britain,  which, 
before  it  was  inhabited,  was  called  the  Sea-girts  Country ;  but 
after  it  became  peopled  by  some  of  that  nation,  it  was  named, 
the  Honey  Island,  from  the  abundance  of  honey  found  there- 
in. When  Prydain^  the  son  of  Aedd  the  Great  understood 
this,  and  what  a  fine  country  it  was,  he  furnished  men  and  means 
to  conquer  the  Honey  Island ;  which  having  efiected,  he  called  it 
Pbydain,  after  his  own  name.  He  divided  the  island  into  three 
parts ;  one  of  which  was  given  to  Locrinus,  his  eldest  son,  who 
gave  his  name  to  that  division.     Another  son,  the  youngest,  had 


though  generally  noticed  only  as  a  poet,  he  appears,  from  this  "  Genealogy," 
"The  Royal  Lineage  of  Coetty,"  (p.  17.)  and  other  records,  to  have  contri- 
bated  largely  to  the  History  of  Wales.  He  seems  to  have  been  a  person  of 
considerable  figure  in  his  day  ;  for,  in  the  Commission  from  Edward  IV.  in 
1460,  **  Touchy nge  the  progenie  and  descent  of  the  honorable  name  of  the 
Herberts,"  he  is  cited  to  Pembroke  Castle,  among  the  **fowre  cheyifest  men 
of  skyll  within  the  Provynce  of  Sowth  Wallys  ;"  and  having,  among  many 
other  "  auncyent  wrytyngs,"  searched  the  "  Rowles  of  Moigan  [Margam] 
Abbey,  and  many  soche  oder  Bookys  and  Warrantes  of  Awthoryty,"  he 
signs,  with  his  coadjutors,  the  return  of  the  said  Commission. 

Lewis  W.  Dilwyn,  Esq.  of  Sketty  Hall,  near  Swansea,  who  so  indefati- 
gably  represented  Glamorganshire  in  several  Parliaments,  considers,  I  under- 
stand, that  he  is  descended  from  leuan  Deulwyn  :  and  this  Gentleman's 
recent  History  of  Swansea  (a  valuable  auxiliary  to  any  future  History  of 
Glamorganshire)  indicates  that  the  literary  mantle  of  his  distinguished  an- 
cestor still  remains  in  the  Family. 

'  Although,  in  the  translation  presented  in  this  volume,  the  words  Wales 
and  WeUh  are,  as  expressions  of  usual  application,  given  for  the  origiual 
terms  Cymmruy  Cymmry,  and  Cymmraeg,  still  the  substitutes,  Cambria^  Citn" 
6rt,  and  Cimbric,  will  also  be  occasionally  used,  when  appertaining  to  circum- 
stances of  primitive  British  History.  In  no  instance,  however,  will  Cambria 
be  applied,  as  deduced  from  Camber,  of  fabulous  record  ;  but  rather  as  a  lati- 
nized form  of  Cymmru  (Wales,)  which  seems  to  be  a  compound  of  cyn,  first, 
and  bruy  matrix  ;  and  hence  it  implies.  Primitive  Mother  ;  an  expression  tluit 
infers  a  belief  among  the  Aboriginal  Britons  similar  to  that  entertained  by  a 
portion  of  the  ancient  Greeks,  who,  to  sutain  their  unalienable  claim  to  the 
country,  asserted  that  they  were  descended  from  the  direct  oflfspring  of  their 
native  soil.     Cssar  attributes  this  belief  to  the  Britons. 

«  See  Myvyrian  Archaiology,  Vol.  II.  Triad  1st,  p.  67. 

*  A  manifest  error  of  the  Welsh  text  is  here  corrected,  which  says — "  A 
phan  wybu  Aedd  Alawr,"  (and  when  Aedd  the  Great  knew,)  instead  of  '*  A 


334  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

the  northern  part  of  the  island ;  and  it  is  said  that  his  name  wai 
Dynwallon.  The  second  son,  called  Annyn  of  Troy,  had  the  ter- 
ritory of  Cambria,  lying  between  the  Severn"  and  the  Irish  Sea. — 
How  far  this  narrative^  is  credible,  or  otherwise,  either  from  its 
own  intrinsic  authority,  or  its  deviation  from  received  history,  let 
the  learned  determine. — Annyn  was  a  hero. 

2.  Selys^  the  Aged,  the  son  of  Annyn,  caused  the  woods  to  be 

phan  wybu  Prydain  ab  Aedd  Mawr,"  (and  when  Prydain  the  «m  of  Aedd 
the  Great  knew,)  an  alteration  that  is  fully  sustained  by  the  context. 

pRTDAiN  is  a  patriarchal  personage  who  recurs  so  frequently,  under  various 
appellations,  in  the  history  and  mythology  of  the  Ancient  Briton%  parti- 
cularly in  the  Historical  Triads,  that  a  cursory  allusion  to  him  here  could 
not  adequately  define  the  different  characters  assigned  to  him  ;  but  a  suitable 
notice  of  him,  among  other  topics  of  peculiar  interest,  will  be  found  in  the 
Appendix ;  w^here  the  deviations  of  this  narrative  from  better  known  aooounti, 
relating  to  the  three  legendary  sons  of  Brutus  {Locrinua,  Cfamber,  and  At- 
banactuSfJ  will  also  be  duly  considered. 

^  By  this  demarcation,  the  river  Severn,  to  a  considerable  extent,  was  on* 
ginally  the  eastern  boimdary  of  Wales,  which,  hence,  contained  extenaiTe 
portions  of  Shropshire,  Worcestershire,  and  Gloucestershire,  and  the  «atin 
counties  of  Monmouth  and  Hereford.  Several  ancient  Welsh  documents  cor- 
roborate this  inclusion,  independent  of  old  legislative  enactments  relative  to  ths 
claims  of  the  Crown,  of  Lords  Marchers,  &c.  Indeed  those  districts  were  deem- 
ed debatable  groundy  until  the  effectual  union  of  England  and  Wales.  The  se- 
paration of  Monmouthshire  from  the  Principality  of  Wales,  merely  becaius  it 
became,  for  jurisprudential  convenience,  included  in  an  English  drcnit,  was  an 
act  quite  repugnant  to  the  early  history  and  generic  character  of  its  Cimbrie 
inhabitants ;  who,  so  far  from  becoming  particularly  deteriorated  by  alien  im- 
migrations, sustained  their  ancient  British  independence,  for  sevml  genen- 
tions,  even  after  the  vale  of  Glamorgan  had  become  subject  to  Norman  twsf • 
— But  tythe  exclusion  of  this  county  from  Wales  was  formerly  justifiable,  the 
Principality  must  have  consequently  become  extinct  by  the  recent  assimila- 
tion of  its  legal  circuits  with  those  of  England  ;  an  inference  too  glarínÿy  in- 
consistent to  be  deduced  for  a  moment.  The  absurdity  of  the  excision,  i^ 
therefore,  so  obvious,  that  Monmouthshire  cannot,  on  any  just  principle,  be 
considered  as  an  English  county.  *'  Tair-sir-ar-ddeg  Cymmru*'  (the  tEwritm 
counties  of  Wales)  is  a  very  old  expression  both  in  tradition  and  record;  but 
its  justness  cannot  be  sustained  unless  this  county  be  included. 

^  The  remote  transcriber,  who  occasionally  blends  his  commentaries  with 
the  text,  seems  somewhat  perplexed  by  this  introductory  deviation  from  otiwr 
chronicles,  with  regard  to  Brutus  and  his  sons ;~  being  apparently  biaased  bj 
those  authorities. — To  present,  however,  additional  means  of  deducing  jnit 
conclusions,  a  Comparative  Tablet  of  Ancient  British  Sovereigns^  with  eluci- 
dations, will  be  appended ; — selected  from  various  sources. 

3  This  prince  corresponds,  in  affinity,  with  Silvius,  otherwise  SüiuB,  the  ton 
of  iEneas,  by  Lavinia,  the  daughter  of  Latinus,  mentioned  by  NenniiHb 


lESTYN,   THE   SON   OF   GWRGAN.  335 

burnt,  that  he  might  have  open  ground  for  com  and  cattle.     He 
gave  his  name  to  the  district  called  the  Circle  or  Cantred  of  Selys. 

3.  Brwth,^  the  son  of  Selys  the  Aged,  was  the  first  who  made 
war  in  the  island  of  Britain. 

4.  Gymryw,  the  son  of  Brwth,  first  instituted  laws  in  Britain. 
He  was  a  great  improver  of  land  and  live  stock  ;  and  kept  a  con- 
siderable number  of  all  kinds  of  animals. 


GreoflFrey  of  Monmouth,  and  other  old  authorities :  but  it  is  obseryable,  that  he 
is,  heie,  called  Selys  Hen^  (Selys  the  aged  or  the  elder y)  as  if  to  distinguish  him 
from  his  nephew,  Selys  the  Younger,  the  son  of  A  scan  ins,  who,  in  most  histories, 
Ì8  meutionckl  as  the  father  of  Brutus,  although  not  at  all  noticed  in  this  account. 

The  tenritory  here  called  Cantref  Selys,  is,  apparently,  the  northern  part 
of  Brecknockshire,  which,  under  the  ancient  delineations  of  minor  districts» 
was  generally  designated  '^  Cantref  Selyf." — Among  other  numerous  varie- 
tiea  of  early  narrative,  Selys  and  Selyf  may  have  been  indiscriminately  used 
for  the  same  name.  (See  Cantref  Selyf,  My  v.  Arch.  Vol.  II.  p.  611.  Jones's 
Histoiy  of  Brecknockshire,  Vol.  II.  p.  209.    Liber  Landavensis,  p.  523.) 

As  no  English  word  of  strictly  synonimous  import  could  be  appropriated 
lor  the  subdivisional  term,  Cantref ,  the  still  older  Welsh  word,  Cantred,  is 
here  substituted ;  having,  for  a  similar  reason,  been  used  by  lolo  Moiganwg, 
and  other  able  antiquaries,  in  preference  to  the  translated  term.  Hundred : 
which,  although  frequently  adopted,  does  not  convey  a  sufficiently  approxi- 
mate signification.  The  term.  Circle^  as  applied  to  some  districts  in  Germany, 
is  too  comprehensive  in  its  appropriation  to  be  properly  substituted  for  either 
Cantref  or  Cantred;  it  corresponds,  however,  with  the  latter  in  etymology  ; 
eant  implying  a  circle,  and  rAet/  a  course.  But  Cantrrf,  being  capable  of  two 
rather  discrepant  renderings,  is  not  so  unexceptionable.  Canton,  a  territorial 
appellation  of  the  Swiss  departments,  has  an  affinity  of  sound ;  and  claims, 
perhaps,  a  common  Celtic  origin  with  the  Welsh  terms ;  but  its  signification, 
also,  is  obviously  too  extensive  to  represent  their  limited  acceptations. 

*  Brwth  and  his  son,  C}Tnryw,  are,  manifestly,  only  varied  forms  of  Bru- 
tus and  Camber,  as  expressed  in  other  records ; — but  (as  just  noticed  al- 
ready) the  former  is  here  made  the  son  of  Silvius  the  Elder ,  contrary  to  the 
preponderance  of  history'. 

Gunn,  in  his  Notes  to  Nennius,  thus  justly  refers  to  the  inconsistent  ac- 
counts given  of  Brutus : — **It  is,  perhaps,  hardly  worth  remarking  on  the  un- 
tettled  opinion  as  to  the  identity  of  the  hero."  This  able  commentator,  how- 
ever, falls  into  delusion,  in  the  credibility  he  attaches  to  an  evidently  fictitious 
poem,  (**  Hanes  Taliesin,")  attributed,  until  recently,  by  prevalent  opinion, 
to  Taliesin  ;  and  still  passing  current,  as  his  production,  with  general  readers. 
But,  to  rescue  the  genuine  fame  of  the  Chief  Bard  of  the  West  from  the  an- 
nihilation intended  by  such  as  have  lately  denied  the  originality  of  his  works, 
and  would  fain  even  pronounce  his  very  existence  a  romance,  it  is  high  time 
to  divest  his  compositions  of  the  spurious  productions  commixed  with  them  ; 
productions  that  are  characterized  by  comparatively  modem  expressions  and 
idioms,  and  (like  other  similar  deceptions)  1>y  their  anachronisms,  and  other 


336  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

6.  Ithon,  the  son  of  Oymryw,  was  a  great  improver  of  national 
government.     He  systematized  the  manner  of  sowing  com. 

6.  Gweirydd  the  Great,  the  son  of  Ithon,  was  a  very  wise 
prince.  It  was  he  who  first  introduced  the  practice  of  preparing 
and  preserving  hay  for  feeding  horses  and  cattle  in  winter. 

7.  Peredur,  the  son  of  Gweirydd,  became,  in  succession,  a  pow- 
erful king;  although  but  little  is  known  now  of  his  achievements. 

8.  Llyfeinydd,*  the  son  of  Peredur,  was  a  mighty  man ;  and 
so  loud  of  voice,  as  to  be  heard  through  the  whole  extent  of  a 
man'*s  journey  from  morning  to  mid-day  sun. 

9.  Gorwst,^  the  son  of  Llyfeinydd,  was  the  swiftest  man  of  foot 

denouncing  incongruities. — Nor  would  this  expui^tion  materially  affect  the 
literary  remains  of  this  remote  votary  of  the  Cimbric  Muse ;  for  his  nume- 
rous and  genuine  poems,  being  intrinsically  sustained  by  consistency  of  allu- 
sions, primitive  features  of  versification,  and  originality  of  sentiment,  would 
still  extensively  vindicate  the  palm  so  long  conceded  to  his  hoary  merit. 
lolo  Morganwg,  in  his  manuscript  compositions,  frequently  laments  the  in- 
jurious effects  of  the  counterfeit  pieces  ;  and  the  Rev.  Thomas  Price,  whose 
"  Bancs  Cymru"  (History  of  Wales)  ably  supplies  the  desideratum,  hereto- 
fore so  long  the  object  of  hope,  impugns,  occasionally,  their  originality.  An 
English  translation  of  this  worthy  Author's  History  would  be  an  important 
acquisition  ; — and  who  so  competent  as  himself  to  accomplish  it  ?  Many  of 
the  princes  that  follow  Brwth  and  Cymry  w,  for  some  centuries,  are  peculiar 
to  this  Genealogy  ;  a  circumstance  that  is  explained  by  the  consideration, 
that  nearly  all  the  descents  hitherto  given  present  only  varieties  of  the  line- 
age of  Locrinus ;  whereas  the  succession  from  Camber  is  the  cooise  here 
followed,  although  equally  involved  in  the  mist  of  early  romance. 

This  Silurian  Dynasty,  whoever  its  real  founder  might  have  been,  was  con- 
sidered the  most  unalloyed  of  all  the  British  Royal  Houses  ;  and  we  read 
that  its  direct  descendants  were  assiduously  sought  for,  when  the  ancient 
sovereignties  were  restored,  at  the  final  departure  of  the  Romans,  and  other 
periods  of  re-established  legitimacy.  It  is,  also,  worthy  of  particular  notice^ 
that  the  list  of  its  princes,  whether  traced  through  the  periods  of  mythology 
or  of  authentic  narrative,  presents  a  greater  number  of  names  in  identity  with 
numerous  personages  mentioned  in  the  **  Triads  of  the  Island  of  Britain" 
than  any  other  Chronicle  furnishes.  Indeed,  these  peculiarly  natbnal  doco- 
ments  of  antiquity  record  a  predominant  portion  of  Silurian  traditions  and 
historical  events. 

1  The  occasional  extravagancies  attributed  to  these  princes,  so  far  from  im- 
pugning the  originality  of  this  account,  are  rather  corroborative  of  its  anti- 
quity ;  for  such  erratic  notions  and  superstitions  appear,  more  and  more,  to 
have  been  topics  of  general  credulity,  the  further  we  retrospectively  trace 
the  current  of  history. 

2  This  name  is  omitted  in  the  leading  Pedigree  :  for  which,  and  similar 
deviations,  sec  the  Preface* 


lESTYN,    THE   SON   OF   GWRGAN.  337 

that  ever  existed :  but  nothing  further  is  known  of  his  actions. 
He  had  no  children. 

10.  Tewged  the  Dark,  the  son  of  Llyfeinydd,  succeeded  to  the 
kingdom,  after  his  brother  Gorwst.  In  his  time  the  strangers 
came  from  the  City  of  Troy  to  Britain,  and  performed  here  the 
actions  recorded  of  them  in  the  works  of  Guttyn  Owain*  and 
others. 

11.  Llarian^  the  Gentle,  the  son  of  Tewged,  was  a  very  mild 
and  exceedingly  good  king. 

12.  Ithel,  the  son  of  Llarian,  was  a  very  beneficent  king,  and 
the  first  who  taught  efiectually  the  proper  culture  of  wheat.  It 
was  he,  also,  who  originally  organized  the  laws  of  landed  property. 

13.  Enir,  the  son  of  Ithel,  called  Enir  the  Bard,  was  an  ex- 
ceedingly wise  king,  and  a  good  bard.  He  reduced  to  fair  order 
the  maxims  of  wisdom,  and  conferred  high  distinctions  on  bards 
and  druids ;  so  that  he  and  they  became  supreme  through  the 
world  for  wisdom  and  knowledge.  Druids  was  the  appellation,  in 
those  days,  given  to  persons  of  learning  and  faith. 

14.  Calchfynnydd^  the  Aged,  the  son  of  Enir  the  Bard,  was 


1  Guttyn  Owain.  (See  Owen's  Cambrian  Biography,  p.  1Ô2.)  The  copy 
whence  that  eminent  Antiquary,  Robert  Vaughan,  Esq.  of  Hengwrt,  took, 
nearly  two  centuries  ago,  his  transcripts,  of  the  Chronicle  of  Basingwerke 
Abbey,  is  said,  by  him,  to  have  been  in  the  hand  writing  of  Guttyn  Owain  : 
but  it  is  hardly  to  be  supposed  that  the  reference  here  made  to  his  works  can 
apply  to  that  Chronicle  ;  which,  though  containing  an  account  of  the  Trojan 
fallacy,  deviates  widely  from  this  Genealogy  in  its  lists  of  princes  :  nor  does 
it  even  mention  either  Tewged's  name,  or  the  second  Trojan  colonization 
here  attributed  to  his  reign.  The  only  just  apology  for  early  incongruities 
of  this  sort  is,  that  the  origin  of  every  other  nation  recorded  in  history  is 
equally  involved  in  fable.  Why  the  Chronicle  of  Basingwerke  Abbey 
should  have  been  called  **  Ll^'fr  Teilo"  is  rather  unaccountable  :  for  it  con- 
tains but  little,  if  anything,  in  common  with  the  Liber  Landavensis,  (the 
real  "Llyfr  Teilo,)  recently  edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  J.  Rees,  of  Cascob  ; 
whose  gratuitous  translation  and  elucidations  of  that  venerable  work,  for  the 
Welsh  Manuscripts  Society,  equally  evince  his  genuine  patriotism  and  lite- 
rary erudition. 

*  This  name  is  expressed  Llariau  and  Llarian  in  the  text ;  but  in  the  trans- 
lation, the  most  suitable  fonn  for  a  proper  name  is  selected  ;  a  principle  that 
will  be  observed  with  regard  to  similar  orthographical  varieties. 

>  The  appellation  Calchfynnydd  is  here  given  for  Caleb wynnydd,  the  form 
that  appears  in  the  leading  Pedigree,  and  which  signifies,  in  accordance  with 
the  concluding  allusion  of  the  notice,  Whitelimer,  or  Lime-whitetcashcr, 


338  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

the  first  who  made  lime,  which  he  discovered  first  by  lì^nìrÎTig  a 
bread  kiln,  with  stones,  under  his  hearth.  But  these  stones,  being 
pulverised  by  fire,  were  thrown  away  ;  and  then  the  rain,  having 
first  completely  reduced  them  to  dust,  converted  them  to  mortar, 
that  hardened  exceedingly  in  the  weather.  With  some  of  the 
lime  he  whitewashed  his  house ;  and  hence  his  name. 

15.  Llywarch,  the  son  of  Oalchfynnydd,  was  the  first  who 
constructed  fortresses  of  stone  and  mortar.  A  severe  war  took 
place  between  him  and  the  Saxon  aliens,  or  Goranians,^  who  came 
in  his  time  to  the  island  of  Britain. 

16.  Idwal  the  Proud,  the  son  of  Llywarch,  was  a  man  supreme 
in  all  great  exploits,  and  lived  in  the  time  of  DyfnwaP  Moelmud, 


1  The  Coraniaid  (Coranians)  are  mentioned,  in  the  Historical  Triadfl,  as  the 
first  of  '^The  three  predatory  Tribes  that  came  into  the  Island  of  Britain^  and 
never  went  out  of  it."  The  other  two  were  the  Picts  and  the  Saxons.  They 
are  said  to  have  inhabited  the  borders  of  the  Humber,  and  the  shore  of  the 
"  Hazy  Sea,"  (Mor  TawchJ  or  German  Ocean  ;  hence  they  may  reaaonaUy 
be  considered  the  same  people  as  the  Coritani  of  the  Roman  writers^  who, 
appear  to  have  moved  eastward. — From  Llywarch,  the  fifteenth  sovere^ 
of  this  catalogue,  in  whose  reign  the  Coranians  are  said  to  have  arrived  here« 
to  Ceri-hir-Lyngwyn,  the  thirty  fifth,  who  probably  governed  in  Ea^llwg 
(Siluria)  a  little  before  the  period  of  the  Nativity,  twenty  reigns  intervene; 
and  allowing  an  average  period  of  twenty  years  to  each  sovereign,  this  people 
must  have  first  settled  in  Britain  about  400  years  before  the  Christian  era. 

The  Triads  say  that  they  came  from  "  Gwlad  y  Pwyl,"  (the  countiy  of  the 
Pwyl,  or  of  Pools,  as  some  have  asserted,)  an  expression  that  has  varioiisly 
been  conjectured  to  denote  Poland,  Belgium,  &c.  From  the  singular  phnte, 
**  Saxon  alienSy'  here  applied  to  them,  it  may  be  fairly  8upp<MÌed  that  tìie 
Britons  considered  the  Coranians,  and  the  kindred  tribes  who,  in  after 
ages,  established  the  Saxon  Heptarchy,  as  descendants  of  a  nation  who  origi- 
nally inhabited  a  common  mother  country ;  an  hypothesis  that  is  combo- 
rated  by  their  recorded  promptitude  to  unite  with  those  tribes,  to  ilÌTipowfni 
the  aboriginal  inhabitants  of  the  paramount  sovereignty.  (See  Myv*  ArcL 
Vol.  II.  pp.  68  &  60.  Tri.  7  &  16.) 

The  etymology  of  the  appellation  Coraniaid^  as  well  as  Cwritani^  is  some- 
what obscure.  If  derived  from  corr^  an  ancient  Celtic  term  for  dbeg».  It  so- 
nifies shepherds ;  an  inference  that  is  sustained  by  the  terms  Corlan  a 
sheepfoldy  and  Glyncorrwg,  Cwmcorrwg,  Pant-y-corraid,  &c.  which  imply 
Sheep-dulea  or  walks  :  but  it  may  not  be  sufficiently  certain  that  this  peoplt 
were  so  designated  from  any  correspondent  avocation. 

«  Dyfhwal  Moelmud,  (Dunwallo  Moelmutius,)  the  great  Welsh  or  Cimbrie 
legislator,  is  a  personage  of  uncertain  date.  He  is,  by  several  wrìten^  sap* 
posed  to  have  lived  about  400  years  before  the  Christian  sra,  a  period  that  nif- 
ficiently  accords  with  his  position  in  this  account. 


lESTYN,    THE    SON    OP    GWRQAN.  339 

of  whose  court  he  was  chief  elder ;  and,  thence,  the  princes  des- 
cended from  him  became  chief  elders  in  the  courts  of  aXL  the  kings 
mid  princes  of  the  island  of  Britain. 

17.  Archwyn,  the  son  of  Idwal,  was  a  deaf  and  dumb  king, 
but  a  very  wise  and  brave  man  :  still,  for  his  defects,  he  was  de- 
throned. 

18.  Bhun  Gramber,  the  son  of  Idwal,  was  a  very  valiant  king. 
He  enacted  a  law  that  no  one  should  intermeddle  with  his  neigh- 
bour'*s  concerns,  except  by  permission  or  request. 

19.  Gorfyniaw,  the  son  of  Bhun  Gramber,  was  a  very  wicked 
and  cruel  king.  He  was  killed ;  and  his  brother  Gynfarch  suc- 
ceeded him. 

20.  Gynfarch,  the  son  of  Bhun,  was  killed  for  his  cowardice, 
and  his  brother  Bleddyn  succeeded  him. 

21.  Bleddyn,  the  son  of  Bhun,  was  an  exceedingly  good  king, 
and  many  times  triumphant  over  his  enemies ;  whence  he  was 
called  Bleddyn  the  wolf; — ^but  he  was  held  in  high  esteem. 

22.  Morgan,  the  son  of  Bleddyn,  was  a  truly  good  king,  who 
effected  incalculable  benefits^  for  his  country,  both  in  peace  and 
war.  He  passed  a  law  that  the  forests  should  not  be  destroyed, 
except  with  the  consent  of  either  the  king  or  the  wisemen  of  the 
country ;  that  all  murderers  and  traitors  should  be  burnt ;  and 
that  the  wealth  of  thieves  should  be  taken  from  them,  and  res- 
tored to  those  whom  they  had  despoiled. — Some  say  it  was  from 
him  that  Glamorgan*  derived  its  name;  an  assertion,  however, 
that  is  quite  erroneous,  whether  supported  by  written  authority 
or  tradition,  as  will  presently  be  seen. 

23.  Berwyn,  the  son  of  Morgan,  was  a  mighty  king,  who  in- 
flicted summary  vengeance  on  his  enemies.  He  exercised  his 
power  equally  in  supporting  the  good,  and  in  punishing  the 
wicked. 

24.  Ceraint  the  Drunkard,  the  son  of  Berwyn,  was  the  first 
who  made  malt  liquor  properly ;  and  the  commencement  was 
thus  : — After  he  had  boiled  the  wort,  together  with  field  flowers 
and  honey,  a  boar  came  there,  and,  drinking  of  it,  cast  in  his  foam. 


*  The  particulars  recorded  of  this  reign,  seem  to  depict  an  early  state  of 
transition  from  sylvan  to  pastoral  and  agricultural  life.  The  especial  pro- 
tection extended  to  forests,  indicates  that  human  existence,  then,  depended 
principally  on  the  chase. 

s  See  the  reign  of  Morgan  ah  Adras,  the  62nd  Soverei^. 

2x 


340  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

which  caused  the  liquor  to  ferment.  The  beer  thus  prepared, 
was  superior  to  any  ever  known  before ;  and  thence  arose  the 
practice  of  putting  barm  in  wort.  Having  attained  this  know- 
ledge, Geraint  gave  himself  up  entirely  to  drunkenness ;  in  which 
state  he  died. 

25.  Brywlais,  the  son  of  Geraint,  was  a  good  king,  a  metodious 
bard,  and  a  sweet  singer ;  but  nothing  further  is  known  of  him.* 

26.  Alafon,  the  son  of  Brywlais,  was  a  very  kind  king  in  word 
and  action;  and,  also,  a  bard  of  transcendent  compositions.  A 
tremendous  earthquake^  occurred  in  his  time,  until  the  monntainfl 


1  Cambro-British  traditionary  records  commemorate  many  violent  convul- 
sions of  the  earth,  that  seem  to  have  occurred  too  far  back  in  antiquity  to 
admit  of  any  chronological  computation  of  their  real  periods :  still  other  tes- 
timonies, aided  by  natural  appearances  and  geological  comparisonSy  fifvqnently 
tend  to  verify  those  immemorial  events.  Druidical  mythology  (Welsh  Prne- 
Essay  on  the  Coelbren,  p.  7,)  says,  that  the  Almiohtt,  when  neither  life  nor 
being  existed,  save  Himself,  vocalized  his  Name,  and  consequently  thai  all  ani- 
mated nature  sprang  simultaneously  to  light  and  life,  at  the  ineffably  melodi- 
ous sound  :  'thus  transmitting  to  futurity  a  magnificent  reference  to  the  erea- 
tion.  The  awfiil  bursting  of  the  Lake  ofFloodSy  that  deluged  the  world,  and 
drowned  all  living  things,  except  Dufyfan  and  Dwyfach^  (the  Man  and  Wo- 
man of  God,)  who  escaped  in  '* the  Baid  Ship"  and,  by  their  ofl&pring,  »• 
peopled  the  world,  is  another  recorded  tradition  of  the  deluge ;  (13  Hirt. 
Tri.)  which  is  sustained  by  an  additional  Celtic  version  of  that  events  that 
probably  appertained  to  the  aborigines  of  the  island ;  for,  among  ^  The  three 
arduous  works  of  the  Island  of  Britain^*  is  named, — **  The  Ship  of  Nefydd, 
Lord  of  Lords,  that  carried  in  it  a  male  and  female  of  every  living  ereatare^ 
when  the  Lake  of  Floods  burst."  (97th  Triad.)  The  mighty  oocanaioei^ 
thus  recorded,  would,  probably,  have  only  been  retained  as  the  imi^iiiiiigg 
of  erratic  genius,  were  they  not  elucidated  by  the  Mosaic  accounts,  indepen- 
dently of  the  mythologies,  in  varied  forms,  of,  perhaps,  all  other  nation^ 
kindreds,  and  tongues  of  the  earth. 

In  nearer  association  with  the  effects  of  the  earOiquake  attributed,  in  the 
text,  to  this  reign,  may  be  ({uoted  the  67th  Triad  :  '*  The  three  sabordinste 
islands  of  the  Island  of  Britain  ; — the  isle  of  Orkney,  (Ore)  the  iale  of  Man, 
and  the  isle  of  Wight.  Afterwards  the  land  was  so  rent  by  the  sea,  that 
Mon  (Anglesey)  became  an  Island  ;  and,  in  the  same  manner,  Orkney  was 
rent  into  a  multitude  of  islands ;  and  other  parts  of  Alban  (Scotland)  and 
Cambria  became  islands."  (E.  W.'s  trans.)  The  testimony  <^  this  Triad  is 
supported  by  Mark  the  Hermit's  copy  of  Nennius,  where  the  foDowing 
passage  occurs  : — '*  Tres  magnas  insulas  habet ;  quarum  una  auatralla  Togit 
contra  armoricos.  et  vocatur  insula  guerth.  Secunda  aita  est  in  «mlûlìíw 
maris  inter  hibemiam  et  bryttaniam ;  et  nominator  eubonia  Tel  manan. 
Tertia  est  in  extremo  boreali  llmite  orbis  bryttanis  ultra  Pictoa  et  Toeatar 
orch."  (It  [Britain]  has  three  great  islands ;  one  towards  the  aouth,  oppoàte 


lESTYN,   THE   SON    OF   OWROAN.  341 

and  rocks  were  rent ;    and  the  rivers,  being  diverted  from  their 
beds,  ran  through  the  chasms  of  the  ground. 

27.  Annyn  the  Bugged,  the  son  of  Alafon,  was  a  potent 
monarch.  In  his  time  a  new  king  sprang  up  in  Gwynedd,  in 
utter  violation  of  justice.  A  severe  war  took  place  between  An- 
nyn and  the  Goranians,  in  which  he  frequently  vanquished  them, 
liie  Dragon  Aliens'  came,  in  his  reign,  to  Britain  and  Ireland. 
In  Britain,  they  perfidiously  confederated  with  the  Romans 
against  the  Gimbri ;  and,  subsequently,  with  the   Saxons ;  but 


the  Armorican  shore,  called  Wight ;  the  second,  situated  mid-sea,  between 
Ireland  and  Britain,  called  Eubonia  or  Man ;  and  the  third,  to  the  extreme 
north  of  the  British  houndary,  beyond  the  Picts,  named  Orkney.)  An  an-- 
dent  proverb,  quoted  hy  the  same  venerable  author,  as  applicable  to  the  rule 
of  the  paramount  monarchs  of  the  island,  affords  further  corroboration : — 
^ludicavit  bryttanniam.  cum  tribus  insulis."  (He  ruled  over  Britain  and 
its  three  islands.)  From  the  construction  of  the  foregoing  triad,  it  is  pretty 
clear  that  its  latter  clause  is  merely  a  commentary,  appended  by  some  remote 
ÌFBiiscríber,  to  account  for  the  altered  appearance  of  the  Orkneys,  after  the 
ropture :  and  we  may  fairly  conclude,  also,  that  the  triads  were  among 
the  ancient  traditUmSy  and  ancient  books,  from  which  Nennios  professes  to 
hare  drawn  his  information. — ^*£x  traditione  veterum— ex  antiquis  libris 
noatrorum."  The  third  triad  of  the  Hengwrt  series  (Myy.  Arch.  II.  p.  2.) 
gires,  like  the  fac-simile  prefixed  to  Gunn's  translation  of  the  Historia,  28 
as  the  number  of  ancient  British  cities,  although  some  of  the  names  vary  in 
those  records.  Different  copies,  however,  have  extended  that  number  to  33 
and  35.  This  discrepancy  will  be  again  alluded  to,  in  noticing  the  identity 
of  Caergworcon  (Nenn.)  Caergorgom  (Tri.)  with  Lantwit  Major. 

The  extraordinary  bed  of  the  Avon,  from  Bristol  to  the  Severn,  is  evidently 
an  immense  cleft  formed  by  some  tremendous  convulsion  ;  and  Caer-odor- 
nant,  (the  city  of  the  riflb  river,)  the  Welsh  name  of  that  ancient  city,  seems 
to  support  the  hypothesis.  Whether  this  rupture  was  produced  by  an  earth- 
quake, similar  to  that  recorded  in  the  text,  or  by  volcanic  eruption,  cannot 
now  be  determined,  further,  than  that  the  agency  of  the  latter  may  be  ratio- 
nally inferred  from  the  proximity  of  Brandon-hill  to  it. — I  am  informed  by 
persons  who  have  examined  the  district,  that  the  original  course  of  the 
Avon,  through  Somersetshire,  from  Nailsey,  near  Bristol,  to  its  confluence 
with  the  Severn  at  Clevedon,  may  still  be  traced. 

'  These  Dragon  Aliens  were  the  Picts,  mentioned  in  the  triad  already  no- 
ticed, at  p.  338  ;  and  their  confederacies  with  the  Romans  and  Saxons  in 
Britain,  are  merely  mentioned  as  successive  events  that  contributed  to  the 
subjugation  of  the  primitive  Britons  ;  but  their  movements  and  dispersions 
here  narrated,  may  contribute  to  elucidate  some  complexities  connected  with 
tlieir  history.  The  triads  state  that  they  settled  originally  in  Scotland, 
(Alban  ;)  and  the  expression  •*  ultra  Pictos"  of  Nennius,  for  the  Orkney 
isle,  strengthens  their  testimoDy. 


342  THE   GENEALOGY  OP 

they  are,  now,  become  quite  extinct  in  this  island ;  although  the^ 
still  entirely  possess  Ireland,  where  they  are  termed  Gwyddd* 
ians  (Woodmen.)  The  invasion  of  this  people  constituted  the 
second,  and  principal,  of  the  ''  Three  Chief  Depredations  of  th« 
Island  of  Britain. ""     The  third  was  that  of  the  Saxons. 

28.  Dingad,  the  son  of  Annyn,  was  the  first  who  raised  cavalry 
to  repel  hostile  invasion.  He  constructed  many  strong  cities  and 
wood-fortresses ;  and  was  the  first,  also,  who  accustomed  people 
to  live  in  places  of  defence. 

29.  Greidiol,^  the  son  of  Dingad,  fought  against  the  Coranians, 
slew  them,  and  drove  them  entirely  out  of  Cambria ;  upon  which 
many  of  them  went  to  the  Gwyddelians,  (Woodmen,)  in  Ire- 
land, and  numbers  to  Alban  (Scotland.) 

30.  Ceraint,^  the  son  of  Greidiol,  was  a  wise  king ;  but  having 
fallen  in  love  with  a  young  woman  who  did  not  requite  his  af- 
fection, he  became  deprived  of  memory  and  reason. 

31.  Meirion,  the  son  of  Dingad,  Ceraint'^s  uncle,  succeeded 
him;  and  it  was  from  him  that  Meirionydd'  (Merionethshire) 
was  named ;  where  he  lived  as  a  lord,  before  he  became  a  king. 

32.  Arch,  the  son  of  Meirion,  systematized  the  art  of  war ;  be» 
yond  which  nothing  is  known  of  bis  achievements. 

1  '  Ceraint,  and  his  father,  Greidiol,  are  thus  commemoraied  in  the 
91st  historical  triad : — *<The  three  beneficent  Mechanics  of  the  laUmd  of 
Britain  ;  Corfinwr,  the  bard  of  Ceri,  of  the  extensive  navy,  who  first  built  a 
ship  with  sails  and  rudder  for  the  Cimhri ;  Morddal,  man  of  the  ocesn,  the 
architect  of  Ceraint,  the  son  of  Greidiol^  who  first  taught  the  art  of  huiÚhi^ 
with  stone  and  mortar  to  the  Cimhri,  about  the  time  when  Alexander  the 
Emperor  was  subjugating  the  world ;  and  Coel,  the  son  of  Cylliny  the  soil  of 
Caractacus,  the  son  of  Bran,  who  first  made  a  wheel-mill  and  carriage  whedf 
for  the  Cimbri.  These  three  were  bards."  (E.  W.'s  trans.)  The  ezprei- 
sion,  Man  of  the  ocean,  which  probably  means  a  foreigner,  might  alio  be 
rendered,  Husband  of  tiie  ocean.  The  invention  of  carriage  wheels,  attri- 
buted to  Coel,  can  only  refer  to  some  improved  principle  that  he  in- 
troduced ;  for  the  war-chariots  of  the  Britons  are  mentioned  in  hkloiy 
long  before  his  time. — In  **  Englynion  y  Grorugiau,*'  (the  Triplets  of  Act%) 
the  appellation  Uynghesyddy  or  Admiral  qf  the  Fleets  is  applied  to  GreUk^ 
See  p.  263,  and  the  translation. 

s  In  the  Genealogies  of  Saints,  it  is  said  that  Mehionydd  derived  its  i 
from  Meirion  ab  Tybiawn  ab  Cynedda  Wledig,  a  chieftain  who  lived  i 
five  centuries  after  this  Meirion,  who  reigned,  probably,  about  140 
before  the  Nativity.  The  sameness  of  both  names  may,  in  the  lapse  of  i^gci, 
have  caused  some  circumstances  appertaining  to  one  to  be  attribated  to  the 
other. 


IE8TYN,   THE   SON    OF   GWRGAN.  343 

33.  Gaid,  the  son  of  Arch,  was  the  first  who  constructed  bridge» 
over  rivers ;  the  repairs  of  which  he  enjoined  on  the  country. 
He  had  children  ;  but  — 

34.  Caradog,^  the  son  of  Arch,  succeeded,  because  of  the  infancy 
of  his  nephew  Ceri,*  the  son  of  Caid. — This  Garadog  (Garactacus) 
was  the  bravest  and  most  renowned  of  any  in  the  whole  world ; 
having  evinced  pre-eminent  valour  on  all  occasions.  He  van- 
quished the  Romans  in  many  battles  ;  but  was,  at  last,  overcome 
through  treachery,  and  carried  captive  to  Rome,  whence  he  re- 
turned eventually  to  Gambria.  By  this  time,  however,  his  ne- 
phew, Geri,  had  assumed  the  government.  This  Garadog  built  a 
palace,  after  the  manner  of  the  Romans,  at  Abergwerydwyr,  called 
now  Llanddunwyd  Major,  or  St.  Donats.'  His  daughter,  Eur- 
gain,^  married  a  Roman  chieftain,  who  accompanied  her  to  Gam- 
bria. This  chieftain  had  been  converted  to  Christianity,  as  well 
as  his  wife  Eurgain,  who  first  introduced  the  faith  among  the 
Cambro-britons,  and  sent  for  Ilid^  (a  native  of  the  land  of  Israel) 
from  Rome  to  Britain.  This  Hid  is  called,  in  the  service  of  his 
commemoration,  St.  Joseph  of  Arimathea.  He  became  the  prin- 
cipal teacher  of  Ghristianity  to  the  Gambro-britons,  and  intro- 
duced good  order  into  the  choir  of  Eurgain,  which  she  had 
established  for  twelve  saints  near  the  place  now  called  Llantwit  ;* 

1  s  4  5  The  intrusion  of  Caradog  (Caractacns)  here,  quite  out  of  his  period,  and 
the  recurrence  of  the  name,  in  due  order,  seven  reigns  onward,  are  circumstan- 
ces that  create  perplexity.  Were  it  not  that  the  most  remarkable  events  of 
Caractacus's  distinguished  life  are  here  recorded,  it  might  be  inferred  that 
two  princes  of  that  name  actually  reigned.  Or,  had  but  one  sovereign  of 
the  name  been  enumerated,  although  misplaced,  the  error  of  false  position 
might  not  unreasonably  have  been  charged  to  early  transcribers ;  but  the 
appearance  of  both,  with  an  intervening  period  of  about  140  years,  is  sustain- 
able by  no  authority,  either  direct  or  deducible.  The  parentage  of  this  Cara- 
dog accords  with  no  other  historical  account  of  Garactacus,  whether  Roman 
or  British  ;  whereas,  that  of  the  other ,  (the  41st  sovereign,)  perfectly  agrees 
with  the  Triads,  Genealogies  of  Saints,  and  other  British  records ;  although 
the  second  memoir  presents  no  other  feature  of  identity.  This  dilemma,  it 
most  be  acknowledged,  might  impugn  the  very  existence  of  this  prince,  but 
that  Roman  writers  so  amply  testify  of  him ;  although  they  decidedly  err 
reelecting  his  parentage  ;  a  consideration  that  will  be  again  resumed  ;  and 
the  circumstances  related  here  of  Ceri,  Eurgain,  and  Illd,  will  also  be  investi- 
gated in  due  order. 

'  St.  Donats,  Glamorganshire. 

*  Llantwit  Major,  Glamorganshire.  The  demolition  here  noticed  is  eon- 
firmed  by  Hollingshed,  (B.  VII.  c.  53.  p.  161.)  who  relates  a  curious  legend 


344  THE   GENEALOGY    OP 

but  which  was  burnt  in  the  time  of  King  Eìdgar.  After  this  ar- 
rangement, Ilid  went  to  Ynys  Afallon,*  (the  Isle  of  Apples,)  in 
the  Summer  Country,^  (Somersetshire,)  where  he  died  and  was 
buried;  and  Ina,^  king  of  that  country,  raised  a  large  church 
over  his  grave,  at  the  place  called  now  Glasinbyri,*  (Glastonbury,) 
in  Welsh  Aberglaston. 


of  Edgar's  sacrilege,  in  robbing  Lantwit  church  of  Iltutus's  bell ;  hÌ8< 
quent  vision ;  his  restitution  of  the  bell ;  and  his  death  within  nine  days 
after.  This  hell,  perhaps  the  oldest  in  the  kingdom,  is  now  part  of  the  town 
dock  at  Lantwit,  and  hears  the  following  inscription,  in  antique  characters:— 
*'Ora  pro  nobis  Sanctb  Iltütb." 

1 "  ^  GwLAD  TB  Haf,  the  Welsh  name  of  Somersetshire,  is  generally 
translated — Summer-country,  a  signification  that  is  still  retained  in  the  two 
first  syllables  of  the  English  name.  The  received  translation,  although  ap- 
parently a  literal  one,  is  too  inconclusive  to  be  implicitly  admitted  :  but  an 
inquiry  into  the  real  import  of  the  original  name,  involves  a  disquisition 
into  Celtic  mythology  that  would  fiir  exceed  the  limits  of  a  mere  expla- 
natory note. 

Glastonbury.  The  name  of  this  place  appears  to  have  undergone  aome 
curious  changes;  being  variously  written,  Abeiglaston — ^Ynys  Afidlon— * 
Ynys  Wydryn — Gleastingbyrig — ^Avalonia — and  Glastonhuiÿ. 

The  term,  aber,  always  signifies  a  confluence. — Gku,  and  ton,  when  applied 
to  land,  severally  imply  green,  and  grassy  ground ;  conjunctively,  they  sig- 
m'iy  greensward :  but,  when  those  terms  are  descriptive  of  water,  they  mean 
•^&fue,  and  wavej—com^xmaedy  their  acceptation  is,  blue-wave — blue-Hrmm-^ 
or,  blue-river, — When  two  streams  unite,  the  confluence  usually  recefres  the 
name  of  the  smaller  one :  still,  in  exception,  it  is  occasionally  designated 
from  some  bordering  peculiarity ;  and  as  the  hundred  in  which  thû  place  is 
situated  is  still  called  Glaston,  the  British  name,  Aberglastony  must  signify— 
the  confluence  at  the  greensward ;  an  appellation  in  accordance  with  the 
character  of  the  vicinity.  In  explanation  of  Ynys  Afallon  and  Ynys  Wydiyn, 
(sometimes  Wyttryn,)  it  should  be  premised,  that,  although  generally  the 
term  Ynys  signifies  an  island,  it  also  frequently  implies  a  rising  dry  spot,  m  a 
marshy  place,  or  bordering  a  river.  Ynys  Afallon  has  been  trandated — Hw 
Isle  of  Apples, — a  very  doubtful  acceptation.  In  Speed's  Map  of  Somcrwt 
shire,  there  is  a  place,  between  Glastonbury  and  a  contiguous  confluence,  called 
Aveland  Island,  which  may  not  inaptly  be  deemed  a  modification  of  Avalkm 
Island.  The  Welsh  appellation,  "  Ynys  Wydryn,"  for  Glastonbury,  wai^ 
perhaps,  the  original  Celtic  name  of  the  spot  on  which  the  Abbey  was  fint 
built ;  for  Wydryn  (G wydryn)  implies  the  watery  or  mardiy  spot,  from  gwfh 
the  ancient  British  word  for  water:  but  **gwydr^'  being  glass  in  the  sme 
language,  and  the  syllable  glas  in  ^'Aber^üíi^ton"  presenting  a  seeming^  ok 
incident  designation,  *'  Ynys  Wydryn*'  became  ^^Glass-Island,"  accordbigto 
some  translations ;  and  hence,  it  may  be  inferred,  the  original  Saxon  name 
**  Glacstingbyrig." The  following  quotation  from  the  Pen.  Cycl.  supports 


lESTYN,  THE  SON  OF  GWRGAN.  345 

S5.  Geri,i  the  son  of  Gaid,  was  a  remarkably  wise  man,  and 
constructed  many  ships  at  the  expense  of  the  country  and  its 
lords ;  hence  he  was  called  Ceri  of  the  extensive  navy,  having 
numerous  fleets  at  sea.    He  lived  at  the  place  called  Porth-Eery. 


the  allnsion  of  the  text  to  lie ▲ : — "  The  Monastery,  which  had  fallen  into 
decay,  was  rebuilt  with  great  splendour,  by  Ina,  king  of  Weesex,  about 
A.  D.  708."    (See  Somersetshire.) 

1  Professor  Rees,  in  his  valuable  Essay  on  the  Welsh  Saints,  considers, 
(pp.  82,  207 f)  that  the  Church  of  Porthkery,  Glamorganshire,  was  dedicated 
to  St.  Curig  ;  an  opinion  that  he  appears  to  have  adopted  rather  from  the 
seeming  identity  of  names,  than  any  decisive  authority.  He  enumerates  two 
saints  of  the  name  ;  and  the  only  difficulty  he  insinuates  is — ^to  which  of  them 
this  church  was  dedicated ;  leaving  the  difference  between  Ceri  and  Curig 
unnoticed.  It  must  be  acknowledged,  that  Genealogies  of  a  secondary  cha- 
racter, and  apparently  depending  on  the  same  conceived  identity,  countenance 
his  opinion ;  which,  however,  upon  mature  examination,  appears  untenable. 

Not  &r  to  the  west  of  Porthkery,  there  is  a  place  called  Fontugary,  (Font* 
de-Gexy  ;)  a  translation,  it  may  be  fairly  inferred,  of  Ffynnon  Qeri,  (Ceri's- 
well,)  which,  probably,  was  the  original  Cambro-British  name. 

The  natural  association  of  circumstances  rationally  supports  the  testimony 
of  this  memoir.  Ceri  was  a  prince  of  Siluria  ;  and  Porthkery  is  a  sea-port 
of  that  ancient  district.  This  sovereign  was  also  a  distinguished  naval  com- 
mander, for  his  name  is  seldom  mentioned  without  the  adjunct — Hirlyngwyn 
(extensive  navy  ;)  hence  he  must  have  frequented  one  of  the  harbours  of 
his  own  dominion.  In  early,  as  well  as  subsequent  ages,  places  were  frequently 
designated  from  the  persons  who  first  raised  them  to  celebrity ;  and  this 
name— Porthkery,  or  Porth-Ceri,  (for  c  and  Ar,  having  exactly  the  same 
power  in  Welsh,  are  interchangeable, )  determines  its  origin.  That  it  is  now 
inadequate  to  the  accommodation  of  a  fleet,  is  not  a  valid  objection ;  for 
Guradoc  of  Llancarvan's  Chronicle,  and  other  concurrent  accounts,  describe 
several  sea-floods  (morlif)  that  permanently  inundated  extensive  plains, 
and  swept  away  castles  on  this  very  coast.  Indeed,  the  progressive  rise  of 
the  Severn  has  been  recently  verified,  in  excavating  the  Bute  Docks  and 
Port  Talbot,  places  at  some  distance  each  side  of  this  locality,  where  ancient 
harbour-conveniences  were  discovered  at  considerable  depths  below  the  pre- 
sent surfiices.  But  Sir  Edward  Mansel,  in  his  MS.  Hbtory,  determines  the 
decay  of  Porthkery,  in  relating  the  landing  of  the  Normans  there  in  aid  of 
lestyn.  His  words  are  : — "  They  came  to  land  in  Perth  Kery,  where  was 
then  a  good  haven  for  ships  before  the  fall  of  the  clifil  there  which  was  in 
our  Grandfathers'  days."  Ceri  having  lived  before  Christianity,  the  places, 
that  strictly  bear  his  name,  have  no  allusion  to  worship  ;  such  as  Kerry,  in 
Montgomeryshire  ;  Castell  Ceri,  otherwise  Caer-Ceri,  in  Llanilid,  (possibly 
the  Caer-Ceri  of  Nennius;)  and  this  place,  Porthkery:  but  the  churches 
dedicated  to  Curig,  such  as  Llangurig,  (the  church  of  Curig,)  Montgomery- 
shire ;  and  Eglwys  Fair  a  Churig,  (the  church  of  St.  Mary  and  Curig,)  Car- 
marthenshire, have  appellations  appropriate  to  religion.    The  practice  of 


346  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

36.  Baran,  the  son  of  Geri,  was  a  mighty  king ;  far  snrpasffliig 
any  of  his  predecessors  in  military  courage ;  being  deemed  the 
most  redoubtable  of  all  princes.  He  lived  to  be  187  years  of  age, 
married  eighteen  wives,  and  had  a  hundred, children.  He  wonld 
wrestle  with,  and  overthrow,  the  three  strongest  men  in  existence; 
and  he  vanquished  the  Romans  in  every  engagement. 

37.  Lleyn,^  the  son  of  Baran,  was  a  sagacious  monarch  of  cou- 
rageous might.  He  fought  against  the  king  of  Gwynedd  (North- 
Wales,)  conquered  his  dominion,  and  called  it — ^the  Country  of 
Lleyn.     He  lived,  like  his  father,  to  extreme  old  age. 

38.  Tegid,2  the  son  of  Baran,  was  a  wise  king  and  a  good  bard. 
He  enacted  excellent  regulations  for  literature  ;  restored  ancient 
learning,  which  had  nearly  become  lost ;  and  instituted  a  council 
of  bards  and  druids,  as  of  old.  He  continued  at  war  with  his  ene- 
mies ;  but  they  took  him,  at  last,  through  treachery,  and  drowned 
him  in  the  great  lake  called,  from  that  circumstance,  Llyn  Tegid, 
(Tegid's  Lake,)  in  Gwynedd.     He  had  no  children. 

39.  Llyr,3  (Lear,)  the  son  of  Baran,  fought  powerfully  with 
many  hostile  nations.  He  expelled  the  Romans  from  Deheubarth,^ 
the  Gwyddelians  from  Gwynedd,^  and  the  Americans  from  Corn- 
wall. He  united  the  latter  kingdom  to  that  of  Cambria ;  and 
went  to  reside  there  ;  transferring  Siluria,  by  which  name  Gla- 
morgan was  then  called,  to  Bran,  his  eldest  son. 

40.  Bran,^  the  son  of  Llyr,  was  a  valiant  king,  who  effected 
much  good  in  repelling  his  enemies.     On  the  death  of  his  brothers 


sometimes  inferring  the  existence  of  certain  early  Christians  merely  from  the 
names  of  places,  is  suspected  by  Professor  Rees,  in  his  Essay.  Among  in- 
stances of  substituting  one  name  for  another,  abeady  adverted  to,  thai  of 
converting  Ceri  to  Curig  occurs  in  the  old  list  of  Welsh  parishes  in  the  Myr* 
Arch.  II.  p.  626,  where,  in  the  text,  this  place  is  inserted — ^Porth  Ceri,  hat 
among  other  various  readings  of  the  margin,  it  is  Curic^  without  any  editoriil 
comment. 

1  Lleyn,  an  ancient  cantred  of  Carnarvonshire,  that  comprised  the  three 
commots  of  a  promontory  on  the  south-east. 

'  Llyn  Tegid,  or  Tegid's  Lake,  is  situated  near  Bala,  in  Merionethshire. 

>  Llyr  is  mentioned  in  the  Triads,  both  as  a  principal  character,  and  m 
conjunction  with  his  son  Bran. 
*  South  Wales.  «  North  Wales. 

<  The  oldest  Genealogies  of  British  Saints,  the  Historical  Triads,  and  other 
ancient  sources,  assert  that,  after  Caractacus  was  ultimately  conqnered,  and 
carried  in  bondage  to  Rome,  his  father,  Bran,  was  detained  there  seven  years 


lESTYN,   THE   SON    OF   GWRGAN.  347 

without  children,  he  left  Siluria  to  his  second  son,  Garadog,  and 
went  to  reside  in  Cornwall,  where  he  permitted  the  Armoricans  to 


as  a  hostage  for  the  homage  of  his  son,  who,  it  is  additionally  stated,  was 
restored  to  his  country  and  former  authority  ; — that,  during  his  detention,  he 
became  a  convert  to  Christianity  ; — and  that,  on  his  release,  at  the  expiration 
of  the  said  period,  he  strenuously  exerted  himself  to  propagate  the  Gospel  in 
Britain ; — ^for  which  reasons,  he  was  called  Bran  Fendigaid^  or  Bran  the 
Bkieed. 

As  the  Genealogies  of  Saints  will  appear  in  due  order,  it  is  only  necessary 
to  obeenre  here,  that  the  older  series  afford  internal  evidences  of  genuine  anti- 
quity, in  the  brief  simplicity  of  their  statements,  unblended  with  legen- 
dary superstition,  as  well  as  in  the  very  ancient  names  of  districts  and 
subdivisions  they  perpetuate ;  most  of  which  have  been  discontinued  for 
many  centuries. 

The  Triads  are  documents  that  were  manifestly  written  at  different 
periods ;  but  many  of  them  present  features  of  great  antiquity  ;  in  corrobo- 
ration of  which,  the  Gododin,  a  poem  of  Aneurin,  confessedly  written  about 
the  commencement  of  the  sixth  century,  enumerates  the  titles  of  several ; 
some  of  which  are  still  extant,  but  others  lost.  For  instance :  (Myv. 
Arch.  p.  4.)  "  Tri  Chat  varchawc  ; — Tri  llu  llurugawc  ; — Tri  euideym 
dorchawc  ; — Tri  marchawc  dywal ; —  Tri  chad  gyhafal ;— &c.  &c." 

The  Triads  that  relate  to  Bran  are  evidently,  from  some  obsolete  expres- 
sions contained  in  them,  of  the  older  class  ;  and  it  is  an  important  trait,  that 
those  which  refer  to  him,  in  different  capacities,  previous  to  the  contests  of  his 
son,  with  the  Romans,  have  not  the  epithet.  Blessed,  affixed  to  his  name  ;  be- 
cause, it  may  be  presumed,  they  were  successively  written  as  the  historical 
records  of  current  events  prior  to  his  conversion ; — while  others,  which  mention 
him  subsequently,  give  that  appellation. 

Although  no  notice  of  Bran's  conversion  is  recorded  here  in  the  text,  still 
all  the  concomitants  of  that  strongly  corroborated  event  are  inserted  in  the 
memoir  of  Caradog  the  d4th  sovereign. 

The  Rev.  T.  Price,  in  his  Uanes  Cymru,  (pp.  73  to  80)  presents  a  candid 
and  lucid  investigation  of  Roman  and  British  authorities  on  this  head.  His 
Tsluable  work  being  in  Welsh,  the  following  synopsis  of  his  arguments  may 
not  be  unacceptable  to  English  readers. 

**  Tacitus  (who  describes  their  appearance)  neither  mentions  the  names  of 
Caractacus's  relations,  nor  the  number  of  his  Brothers  ;  but  Dion  Cassius, 
who  wrote  nearly  two  centuries  later,  states  that  Caroctacus  and  Togodumnus 
were  the  sons  of  Cunobelinos,  who  died  before  their  great  struggle.  But 
those  who  rely  on  the  concurrent  testimonies  of  Welsh  history,  presented  in 
the  Triads,  Genealogies,  &c.,  consider  Caractacus  as  the  son  of  Bran  the  son 
of  Llyr.    In  the  Triads  we  read  as  follows. 

«The  three  Holy  Families  of  the  Island  of  Britain  :  The  Family  of  Bran 
tlie  Bfofferf,  the  son  of  Llyr  of  defective  utterance,  who  first  introduced  the 
Christian  religion  into  this  Island  from  Rome,  where  he  had  been  detained  a 
prisoner  ;  having  been  betrayed  by  Aregwedd  Voeidawg  (Cartisraandua)  the 

2  Y 


348  TIÍE  GENEALOGY   OF 

remain,  on  condition  of  assisting  him  against  the  Romans ;  which 
they  did  most  manfully,  and  he  vanquished  that  power.    This  Bran 


daughter  of  Afarwy,  the  son  of  Uudd  :  secondly  the  family,  &c.'      (Myv. 
Arch.  II.  p.  61.  Tri.  18.     E.  W's  trans.) 

*  The  three  Blessed  Sovereigns  of  the  Island  of  Britain  :  Brän  the  Bleuei^ 
the  son  of  Llyr,  &c.,  who  first  introduced  Religion  among  the  Cimbri 
(Cymry)  from  Rome,  where  ho  had  been  seven  years  as  a  hostage  for  his 
son  Caractacus,  who  had  been  taken  a  captive  to  Rome;  being  betrayed 
through  the  deceit,  treachery,  and  ambush  of  Aregwedd  Voeddawg :  (Carti»- 
mandua.')     The  second,  &c.    (Tri.  35.    E.  Ws  trans.) 

**  Among  the  strongest  objections  to  the  British  authorities,  it  is  urged— 
that  Tacitus,  after  particularizing  the  wife,  daughter,  and  brothers  of  Canicta- 
cus,  makes  no  allusion  whatever  to  hia/aihery  whom  he  could  not  have  passed 
unnoticed,  had  he  been  there  at  the  time.  But,  by  a  close  examination  of  the 
latter  triad,  we  find  in  it  an  expression  tending  to  the  conclusion — ^that  Bfui 
was  not  among  the  captives,  at  their  public  exhibition  before  Claudius  a£ 
Rome,  for  it  states,  that  he  had  been  detained  there  as  a  hostage  for  his  flon, « 
position  that  he  could  not  have  appeared  in,  had  he  been  already  there  as  « 
prisoner. 

**  Again  :  If  Caractacus  was  not  the  son  of  Cunobelinos,  how  came  Dion 
Cassius,  or  the  authorities  he  found,  to  advance  that  assertion  ?  In  r^Iy, 
I  believe  that  the  Triads  unravel  this  perplexity. 

*  The  three  Loyal  Legions  of  the  Island  of  Britain  :  The  legion  of  Belyn, 
the  son  of  Cynfelyn,  in  the  wars  of  Caradawc,  the  son  of  Bran :  &c*  (Tii 
79.    E.  W's  trans.) 

**  It  will  thus  be  seen,  that  the  triads  acknowledge  the  co-operation  of  «  son 
and  a  legion  of  Cunobelinos,  (C}^felyn)  and  state  also  that  they  acted  under 
Caractacus  the  son  of  Bran  ;  a  circumstance  that,  in  my  opinion,  gore  rin 
(at  a  distant  period)  to  the  mistake  under  consideration ;  some  Roman  histori- 
ans, having  concluded,  from  the  facts  just  stated,  that  Caractacus  must  bsTS 
been  another  son  of  Cynfelyn. 

**  It  is  also  highly  probable  that  the  Lloegrian  tribes,  already  weakened  by 
intestine  divisions,  placed  themselves  under  the  protection  of  the  leader  ofs 
nation  so  celebrated  and  warlike  as  the  Silures ;  an  opinion  that  is  apparent^' 
sanctioned  by  Caractacus,  in  his  speech  before  Claudius ;  where  he  says,  thi^ 
he  governed  many  tribes.    (Pluribus  gentibus  imperitantem.) 

**  The  Triads  likewise  attribute  to  him  this  federal  supremacy  ;  for  he  is 
there  expressly  named  among — The  three  elective  Supreme  Sorereigiis  of 
the  Island  of  Britain. — The  three  Federal  Sovereigns  of  the  Island  <xf  Bii- 
tain.    &c.  &c." 

Mr.  Price  also  adverts  to  the  indubitable  fallacies  of  Roman  writert  in 
'  speaking  of  other  nations,  instancing  the  misrepresentations  of  Tadtiu^ 
their  most  correct  author,  with  regard  to  the  Jews.  But  Nlebuhr  and  otheis 
have  so  recently  exposed  the  fabulous  basis  of  their  writings,  eren  relating  to 
their  own  nation,  that  their  authority  rapidly  declines.  The  early  footsteps 
of  Truth  will  eventually  be  cleared  of  the  superincumbent  dross  of  ages. 


lESTYN,   THE   SON   OF   GWRGAN.  349 

-became  Emperor  of  Britain ;  but  his  other  sons  being  dead,  his 
son  Garadog  succeeded  him  to  the  government. 

41.  Garadog,'  (Garactacus,)  the  son  of  Bran,  was  a  very  puissant 
king ;  and,  when  the  empire  of  Britain  devolved  on  him,  he  went 
to  Gomwall  to  reside ;   giving  Siluria  to  his  son  GyUin. 


The  applicable  testimonies  of  local  names  are  readuy  admitted  as  cogent 
«nxilianes,  even  of  mere  oral  tradition  ;  but  when  they  clearly  concur  with 
recorded  authorities,  the  aggregate  evidence  thus  afforded  must  be  condusÌYe. 
The  following  still  existing,  primitive,  and  unbiassed  witnesses  concentrate 
many  of  the  facia  here  advanced ;  and  confirm  them,  according  to  the  old 
Welsh  adage,  by  wood,  fields  and  mountain,     (Coed,  maes,  a  mynydd.) 

Uanilid,  in  Glamorganshh-e,  appears  to  have  been  a  retirement  of  the  Silu- 
rian princes.  Some  manuscript  statements  assert,  and  with  great  probability, 
that  its  ancient  name  was  Caer-Geri ;  an  appellation  that  Edward  Williams 
adopts  in  his  MS.  History  of  Dunraven  Castle.  In  this  parish,  there  is  an 
old  well,  never  dry,  called  Ffynnon-Geri,  or  Ceri's  well,  (from  Ceri-hirlyng- 
wyn)  and,  at  a  little  distance,  a  spot  of  ground  called  Castell  Ceri,  or  Ceri's 
Castle  ;  but  no  vestiges  of  habitation  are  now  known  to  have  existed  there, 
except  a  flagged  causeway  towards  the  church,  through  a  bordering  marsh, 
discovered,  in  draining,  about  sixty  years  ago.  Close  to  the  church,  a  very 
large  round  tumulus  appears,  called  Y  Gaer  Gronn,  or  circular  fortress,  on 
which,  within  the  memory  of  persons  now  living,  immense  old  oaks  grew. 
The  top  of  this  tumulus  has  been  rendered  concave  ;  apparently  for  warlike 
defence ;  but  we  may  infer  that  it  was  originally  a  Druidic  Oratory  ;  for  the 
first  Christian  churches  were  built  near  such  places.  The  parish  wake  was, 
until  of  late  years,  held  for  several  successive  days,  between  this  hillock  and 
the  adjoining  church-yard ;  commencing  on  Gwyl-Geri,  (the  vigil  of  Ceri) 
about  midsummer.  At  a  short  distance  is  an  old  farm-house,  called,  from 
time  immemorial,  Tre-Fran,  or  Bran's  residence.  The  parish  is  called  Llan- 
ilid,or  the  Church  of  Hid  ;  and  a  contiguous  ancient  mansion,  is  also  called 
by  that  name  ;  where,  it  may  be  conjectured.  Hid  first  resided  ;  for  he  neces- 
sarily must  have  sought  the  near  refuge  of  his  royal  patron — Bran — while 
encountering  ancient  prejudicies  in  propagating  a  new  creed.  Lastly,  old 
fortifications  are  numerous  in  the  vicinity,  and  Bryn  Caradoc  (Caractacus's 
eminence)  stands  not  far  off ;  rather  adjacent  to  which,  extensive  remains  of 
early  encampments  appear. 

Whether  Llanilid,  Kerry,  in  Montgomeryshire,  or  some  other  place,  be 
the  Caer-Ceri  of  Nennius  and  the  Triads,  is  a  question  still  open  for  antiqua- 
rian decision. 

1  Caradog  (Caractacus)  here  occupies  his  right  position,  according  to  the 
numerous  pedigrees,  and  other  records,  that  notice  him.  But  unaccountably, 
the  distinguishing  events  of  his  life  are  attributed  to  the  prior,  fictitious  Cara- 
dog. The  origin  of  this  palpable  error  is,  perhaps,  at  this  distant  day,  inscru- 
table. By  rejecting  the  former  Caradog,  and  attaching  the  actions  related  of 
him  to  this  prince  of  the  same  name,  an  untoward  confusion  would  be  obvi- 
ated.   J'*'*  *'  ^inwg's  notice  of  him  will  further  illustrate  his  character  : 


350  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

42.  Cyllin,^  the  son  of  Caradog,  was  an  exceedingly  wise  and 
mild  king.  In  his  time  a  considerable  number  of  Cambrians  be- 
came converts  to  Christianity,  through  the  ministry  of  the  saints 
of  Eurgain'^s  congregation,  and  many  other  holy  men  from  Greece 
and  Borne,  who  were  in  Cambria  at  this  time.  This  prince  was 
the  first  in  this  country  who  gave  proper  names  to  infants ;  for 
previously,  persons  were  not  named  before  years  of  maturity, 
when  the  disposition  became  developed. 

43.  Owain,  the  son  of  Cyllin,  did  signal  service  to  the  Chri»- 
tians.  He  constructed  a  large  and  fair  palace,  in  the  Roman  style, 
on  the  site  of  Caradog  the  son  of  Arch'^s  court  at  St.  Donaf^s ; 
and  there  the  princes  descended  from  him  resided,  till  the  time  of 
Meyrig  the  son  of  Meirchion.  He  endowed  the  congre^tion  of 
Eurgain  with  adequate  means  of  subsistence  for  twelve  saints. 

44.  Eirchion,8  the  son  of  Owain. — In  his  time,  the  infidels  slew 


^'  Though  Brenus  was  the  first  British  convert  to  Chrîstaînity,  we  do  not  find 
the  name  of  his  son  Caractacus  with  those  of  his  family  who  are  reckoned 
amongst  the  first  converts  ;  hut  a  daughter  of  his,  named  Eigen,  Eigan»  or 
Eigain  is  mentioned  as  one  of  the  sahits."     (MS.  History  of  Donraven.) 

Being  now  fairly  ivitliin  the  period  of  the  Roman  occupation,  it  will  create 
no  surprise  that  the  princes  who  follow  in  succession,  for  many  genentkms, 
appear  to  have  exercised  but  little  political  or  military  power,  except  to  aid 
their  conquerors  in  the  expulsion  of  difi^erent  invading  hordes. 

1  Cyllin  is  often  named  in  the  Triads  ;  but  mostly  as  a  genealogic  link ; 
and,  similarly,  in  the  Genealogies  of  Saints.  Coel,  his  son,  though  not  here 
included,  is  also  frequently  noticed  in  those  records  ;  but  particulazly  in  the 
91st  triad,  quoted  p.  842. 

Lleurwg,  the  King  Lucius  of  Usher,  Stillingfleet,  &c.  is  here  likewite 
omitted  ;  a  circumstance  that  is  satisfactorily  explained  by  the  following 
translated  notice  of  him,  taken  from  another  genealogy  among  lolo  Mor- 
gan wg's  transcripts  from  the  Tre-bryn  MSS.  **  Lleurwg,  the  son  of  Cod,  the 
son  of  Cyllin,  called  Lleufer  Mawr,  or  Lucius  the  Great,  was  a  good  king ; 
and  he  sent  to  the  Pope  of  Rome  for  Bishops  to  baptize  the  Cambro-Britbh 
nation.  He  founded  a  church  at  Llandaff;  and  did  great  service  to  the 
Christians ;  but  he  resigned  the  Kingdom  (Siluria)  to  his  nephew,  caUed 
Meirchion,  the  son  of  Owain,  because  he  had  no  children." 

It  seems  more  than  probable  that  he  and  his  father  Coel  never,  in  fixiv 
would  assume  the  reins  of  a  mere  nominal  government,  for  the  vain  parMk 
of  outward  show,  real  power  being  then  exercised  only  by  Roman 
authorities. 

He  is  repeatedly  distinguished  in  the  Triads  ;  and  also  in  the  G^eak^giei 
of  Saints  ;  consequently,  he  will  be  noticed  hereafter. 

5  £irchion  is  frequently  named  Meirchion. 


IE8TYN,   THE  SON   OF   GWRGAN.  351 

great  numbers  of  the  Christians ;  but  he  went  against  them,  and 
without  even  an  edged  weapon  or  anything  else,  save  his  bare 
hand,  killed  many  of  them ;  from  which  circumstance  he  was 
called  Eirchion  the  thumb-warrior. 

45.  Gt)rwg,  the  son  of  Eirchion,  was  an  exceedingly  wise  and 
religious  king.  He  caused  wars  to  cease,  procured  skilful  men 
from  Bome,  to  instruct  his  subjects  in  the  right  systems  of  agri- 
culture, raising  com,  and  architecture,  contributed  largely  towards 
the  support  of  learning  and  piety,  and  was  a  good  bard.  He  gave 
a  new  name  to  his  court,  calling  it  Tresilian,i  from  a  saint  of  that 
name  whom  the  infidels  had  killed ;  which  name  was  retained  till 
the  time  of  lestyn  ab  Gwrgan. 

46.  Gorddyfwn,  the  son  of  Gorwg,  was  a  turbulently  mad  king; 
for  which  reason  he  was  deposed,  and  his  brother  Bhun  placed  in 
his  stead. 

47.  Bhun,  the  son  of  Gorwg,  an  exceedingly  sagacious  monarch, 
pursued  the  invariably  beneficent  course  of  his  father.  He  insti- 
tuted laws  for  learning  and  science  ;  so  as  to  confer  freedom  and 
immunities  on  literary  and  skilful  persons,  according  to  Boman 
usage ;  and  he  became,  like  his  father,  distinguished,  above  all 
other  kings,  for  peace  and  wisdom.  When  his  nephew  became  of 
age,  he  resigned  to  him  the  government. 

48.  Einydd,  the  son  of  Gorddyfwn,  was  a  good  king.  He  ad- 
hered to  the  faith  of  his  uncle  and  grandfather,  raised  to  exalted 
privileges  all  who  professed  Christianity,  and  was  the  first  who 
constructed  towns  after  the  manner  of  the  Bomans. 

49.  Arthfael,  the  son  of  Einydd,  called  Arthfael  the  aged,  erect- 
ed, like  his  father,  many  churches,  towns,  and  villages  ;  but  in  his 
old  age,  he  became  an  infidel. 

60.  Gwrgan  the  Freckled,  the  son  of  Arthfael,  was  a  puissant 
sovereign.  He  enacted  a  law  that  no  one  should  bear  a  shield,  but 
only  a  sword  and  bow  ;  hence,  his  countrymen  became  very  heroic. 

61.  Meirchion,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  built  many  towns,  subdivi- 
ded the  country  into  cantreds,  established  literary  and  scientific 
regulations,  and  gave  increased  force  to  the  privileges  and  degrees 
instituted  for  persons  of  approved  learning  and  art. 


1  Tresilian  is  still  the  name  of  a  dingle  opening  to  the  sea,  mid-way  between 
Lantwit  Major  and  St.  Donat's.  The  mtroduction  of  Roman  arts  and 
domestic  improvements  is  conspicuous  in  this,  and  several  succeeding  reigns. 


852  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

52.  Meyr  jg,  the  son  of  Meirchion,  was  a  brave  far-ÜEuned  king. 
In  his  time  the  Insh-Picts  came  to  Cambria :  he  however  marched 
against  them,  drove  them  away,  and  slew  them ;  but  was  killed 
by  an  Irishman  concealed  in  a  wood,  since  called  Ystrad  Mey- 
ryg.i  He  built  a  palace  at  a  place  called  Boverton,'  which  has 
ever  since  been  considered  one  of  the  chief  royal  residences  of 
the  country. 

53.  Crair,  the  son  of  Meyryg ;  a  very  religious,  wise,  and  mer- 
ciful prince,  who  was  slain  by  the  unconverted. 

54.  Edric,  the  son  of  Crair,  was  an  exceedingly  unwise  sove- 
reign, and  the  cause  of  great  ignorance  and  impiety  in  the  country. 
He  died  of  gluttony. 

55.  Bran,  the  son  of  Edric,  was  a  frantic,  wicked  king,  who 
died  of  anger  and  rage. 

56.  Tryhaeam,  the  son  of  Edric,  succeeded,  and  was  a  haughty, 
impetuous  sovereign.  In  his  time  the  Saxons^  and  Picts  came  to 
Gower,  in  Cambria ;  but  he  would  not  have  them  harrassed ;  for 
which  reason  he  was  put  to  death. 

57.  Nyniaw,  the  son  of  Bran,  who  was  a  better  king  than  his 
more  immediate  predecessors,  cleared  the  country  of  enemies,  and 
gave  possessions  to  the  churches  ;  but  in  his  latter  period  he  be- 
came deprived  of  memory  and  reason.  He  was  a  great  glutton, 
which  caused  his  phrensy. 

1  Probably  Ystrad  Meuric,  parish  of  Yspytty  Ystrad  Menric,  CardJganshire. 

'  This  royal  palace  might  have  been  constructed  before  the  place  became  a 
Roman  station. 

Boverton  is  in  the  parish  of  Lantwit  Major ;  about  a  mile  eastward  of  the 
town.  Notwithstanding  the  uncertainties  of  some  distinguished  authorities  res- 
pecting the  real  position  of  the  Roman  station,  Boyium,  a  close  examinatkm 
of  Boverton,  would  conyince  any  competent  antiquary,  that  it  b  the  locality  of 
that  station  ;  for,  independent  of  the  approaching  similarity  of  name,  then 
are  extensive  remains  of  Roman  camps  in  the  vicinity  ;  and,  at  a  small  dis- 
tance, a  considerable  number  of  Roman  coins,  of  different  emperors,  weis 
found  in  1798,  and  sold  to  the  Rev.  Robert  Nicholl,  (now  Came)  of  Dim- 
lands,  near  Lantwit ;  a  gentleman  of  high  antiquarian  taste.  Other  remaini^ 
of  a  concurrent  description,  have  also  been  discovered  there* 

>  According  to  Ammianus  Marcellinus,  the  Saxons  appeared  in  Britain  so 
early  as  A.  D.  364,  a  period  that  sufficiently  coincides  with  the  time  of  Trj- 
haeam's  reign,  according  to  the  chronological  test  adopted. — Gwyr,  or  Gower, 
is  the  western  district  of  Glamorganshire  ;  where  the  Roman  station,  Lm^ 
caniim,  was  situated  :  a  name  that  (like  those  of  the  not  very  distsnt 
stations,  Bomum  and  NidumJ  has  long  reverted  to  its  primitive  British  «Il- 
lation Ltychwr, — in  English  Loughor. 


lESTYN,   THE   SON   OF   GWRGAN.  353 

68.  Teithfallt,*  the  son  of  Nynîaw,  called,  also,  Teithfalch  in 
some  books,  was  a  beneficent  and  religious, — ^a  wise  and  heroic 
monarch.  He  fought  powerfully  with  the  Saxons,  and  vanquished 
them  ;  and  he  past  a  law  that  made  it  imperative  on  all  to  contri- 
bute a  portion  of  their  wealth  towards  supporting  religion,  the 
clergy,  learning,  and  the  repairs  of  churches.  Many  of  the  Sax- 
ons and  Picts  came  to  Cambria  in  his  time,  and  slew  great  num- 
bers of  the  natives  ;  burning  also  churches  and  choirs.  He 
retired  in  his  latter  days,  to  a  life  of  sanctity,  transferring  the 
government  on  his  son  Tewdric. 

59.  Tewdric,  the  son  of  Teitlifallt,  an  eminently  good  king,  who 
drove  the  infidel  Saxons  and  Irish  out  of  the  country.  He 
founded  many  churches  and  colleges,  endowing  them  with  posses- 
sions,— built  the  church  of  Llandaff,  where  formerly  stood  the 
church  of  Lucius,  the  son  of  Coel,  which  was  burnt  by  the  infidels, 
and  endowed  it  amply  with  extensive  lands ;  he  also  gave  property 
to  the  College  of  Iltutus  ;  and  instituted  there  four  fair  establish- 
ments for  the  votaries  of  religion  and  learning. — It  was  at  his 
suggestion  that  this  Iltutus  brought  Saint  Grermanus^  to  Cambria  ; 
for  the  college  of  Eurgain  was  now  extinct,  having  been  entirely 
destroyed  by  the  Saxons ;  but  a  new,  and  contiguous  one  was 
established  by  Iltutus,  through  the  gifts  and  affection  of  Tewdric  ;* 
so  that  it  became  the  principal  college  of  all  Britain,  and  the  first 
in  the  world  for  learning  and  piety.  Saint  Germanus  now  founded 
a  college  at  Llancarv-an,  which  became  celebrated  for  its  saints ; 
after  which  the  Saxons  made  a  second  irruption  into  the  country  ; 


>  Teiih£dlt  is  noticed  in  the  Liber  Landavensis ;  pp.  354. — 452. 

'  Gennanus  is  said  to  have  come  to  Britain,  on  his  first  mission,  in  429  ; 
and  on  his  second,  in  447  ; — at  which  latter  period  he  is  considered  to  have 
instituted  the  colleges  recorded  in  the  text. 

>  Tewdric's  life  might  have  included  both  periods  ;  but  as  it  is  recorded 
that,  sometime  before  his  death,  he  retired  to  devotional  privacy,  consigning 
the  goverment  to  his  son  Meyryg,  we  may  conclude  that  his  reconstruction 
and  endowment  of  Llandaff  church,  and  other  religious  benefactions,  together 
with  his  support  of  Germanus,  were  acts  subsequent  to  his  resignation ; 
which  event  appears,  from  probable  computation,  to  have  taken  place  about 
the  time  of  the  final  departure  of  the  Romans  ;  (A.  D.  446.)  an  opinion  that 
is  materially  strengthened  by  the  severe  onset  of  the  Saxons  in  the  reign  of 
his  ton.  His  benefactions  to  Llandaff  are  recorded  in  the  Liber  Landavensis, 
p.  621.    See  also  Godwin's  Bishops  of  Llandaff. 


354  ^  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

but  they  were  opposed  and  vanquished  by  Tewdric ;  who,  how- 
ever, was  slain  in  the  engagement,  at  a  place  called  Merthyr 
Tewdric* 

60.  Meyryg^  the  son  of  Tewdric,  was  a  good  king,  who  gave 
lands  to  the  church  of  Teilo  at  Llandaff,  and  to  the  college  of  Iltn- 
tus,  called  now  Llanilltud  ;  (Llantwit  Major)  but  his  life  was  of 
short  duration  compared  with  the  ages  of  his  royal  predecessors. 

61.  Adras,  the  son  of  Meyryg,  was  a  very  heroic  sovereign, 
who  frequently  put  the  Saxons  to  flight ;  killing  and  destroying 
them.  He  enacted  many  laws  and  ordinances  for  civil  and  ecclesi- 
astical government ;  and  was  the  first  who  instituted  a  class  of 
Equestrians,  for  the  maintenance  of  correct  comportment  in  war, 
and  due  discipline  at  arms  ;  and  also  to  guard  well  the  country, 
watch  carefully  its  enemies,  and  to  establish  an  efficient  system  of 
communications  with  regard  to  hostilities  and  legislation. 

62.  Morgan,*  the  son  of  Adras,  called  Morgan  the  Conrteoiis, 
and  Morgan  of  Glamorgan,  was  a  renowned  king,  and  an  Eques- 
trian of  Arthur's  court,  and  of  the  Bound  Table.  He  was 
Arthur'^s^  cousin ;  particularly  handsome ;  extremely  courteous ; 
and  so  cheerfully  kind  and  merciful,  that,  when  he  went  out  to 
war,  no  one,  old  and  strong  enough  to  bear  arms,  would  remain  at 
home ;  hence  it  was  that  he  acquired  the  designation  of — Morgan 
the  Courteous.     It  was  he  that  gave  the  appellation — Morgamtff — 


1  Now  called  Mathem,  near  Chepstow,  Monmouthshire.  See  WOliam't 
Hbt.  Men.  for  his  monument  and  inscription  ;  Ap.  p.  86. 

Prof.  Rees  cannot  be  much  in  advance  in  placing  his  period  between  A.  D. 
440  and  470 ;  (Welsh  Saints,  p.  184)  but  many  writers  have  erToneoaily 
dated  it  considerably  further  on. 

'  Meyryg.  This  prince's  ecclesiastical  endowments  appear  in  the  Lib. 
Land.  pp.  310,  318,  393,  405, 621  ;  and  Godwin's  Bish.  Lland.  See  also 
Rees's  Welsh  Saints,  p.  1Ô4.  His  great  distinction  however  is, — ^that,  accord- 
ing to  several  authorities,  he  was  the  father  of  the  renowned  Arthur.  (Price's 
Han.  Cym.  p.  271.  Owen's  Camb.  Biog.  Arthur.  Parry's  Cambrian  Ra- 
tarch,  p.  3.    Pen.  Cycl.  Arthur,) 

'  A  more  extended  memoir  of  this  prince  appears  at  the  commencemeiit  of 
the  succeeding  Genealogical  Section. 

*  The  Chronicles  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  Tysilio,  and  others  that  tretl 
largely  of  Arthur,  although  hased  on  considerable  realities,  are  yet  to  extra- 
vagantly imbued  with  fiction,  that  the  truths  involved  are  only  perceptible  to 
persons,  thoroughly  conversant  in  Welsh  literature,  and  who  may  devote 
their  analytical  research  to  this  object.  But,  rejecting  all  &baloii8  accounts»  H 
appears,  from  the  affirming  testimonies  of  sereral  unpublished  Webh  records 


IE8TYN,   THE   SON   OF   GWBQAN.  355 

to  his  country ;  which  name  it  has  retained  to  this  very  hour.  So 
greatly  beloved  was  this  prince  for  amiableness  of  disposition,  that 
*'The  suavity  of  Glamorgan''  became  an  adage  proverbially  applied 
to  the  country.     He  enacted  a  law  that  no  one  should  kiU  an 


in  my  poflsesBion,  and  presenting  internal  evidence  of  general  anthenticity, 
tliat  tills  distinguished  character  was  a  son  of  Meyiyg  tiie  60th  monarch  of 
this  Crenealogy ;  consequently  Adras  being  his  brother,  Morgan,  tiie  son  of 
that  prince,  must  have  been  his  nepheWy  and  not  his  cousin,  as  stated  in  the 
text.  He  is,  however,  here  satisfactorily  identified  as  a  collateral  branch  of 
the  royal  house  of  Siluria,  then  restored  to  the  full  exercise  of  power.  Some 
accounts  go  so  far  as  to  assert,  that  he  succeeded  to  the  hereditary  dominion , 
just  before  his  death  at  the  battle  of  Camlan  ;  but,  upon  stricter  views,  we 
cannot  come,  with  any  certainty,  to  that  conclusion.  It  is  manifest,  however, 
that  he  had  risen  to  distinct  and  paramount  power  at  this  time  ;  for  his  reign- 
ing nephew  figured  as  an  equestrian  at  his  court ;  a  circumstance  that  is 
oonfirmed  by  the  Triads.  That  he  instituted  some  order  of  distinction,  cannot 
reasonably  be  doubted  ;  and  we  trace  its  incipiency  in  the  military  appoint* 
ments  of  his  brother.  That  he,  also,  instilled  into  his  exalted  courtiers  an 
ardent  spirit  of  chivalry,  which  might  occasionally  have  impelled  them  to 
considerable  extravagance,  may  also  be  safely  conceded ;  but  interposing 
Truth  forbids  any  further  admission  on  this  head. 

Authors,  of  deserved  credit  for  impartiality  and  general  accuracy,  have 
urged,  as  a  cogent  objection,  that  (allowing  his  accession  to  the  hereditary 
dominion)  the  limited  province  of  Siluria  could  not  have  furnished  him  with 
means  adequate  to  the  mighty  resistance  he  made.  When,  however,  we  con- 
sider, that,  according  to  Tacitus's  own  confession,  *^  after  his  cajdivity  [that  of 
Caractacus]  the  Romans  were  often  defeated  and  routed  by  the  single  state  of  the 
Siiures*'  (Romanosque  post  ejus  captivitatem  ab  una  tantum  Silurum  civitate 
sepiùs  victos  et  proflgiatos)  it  can  create  no  surprise  that  it  should,  after  a  long 
course  of  improved  discipline,  have  repelled  invading  hordes,  of  rude  adventu- 
rers, however  numerous.  But,  in  what  light  soever  viewed,  the  achieve- 
ments of  Arthur  appear  to  rest  on  real  bases, — for  we  find  satisfactory  testi- 
monies that  he  was  the  Sovereign  Elect  of  a  military  confederation  ;  and,  as  such, 
directed  the  combined  energies  of  many  states  against  the  common  enemy. 

In  the  31st  triad,  (My v.  Arch.  II.  p.  63)  Arthur  is  recorded  as  one  of  the 
three  red  {gory)  chieftains  of  Britain  ;  in  the  23rd,  as  one  of  the  three  heroic 
supreme  sovereigns  of  Britain  ;  in  the  21st,  as  the  victim  of  his  nephew  Med- 
rod's  treason  ;  who,  on  that  account,  is  consigned  to  perpetual  infamy  as  one 
of  the  three  detestable  traitors  of  the  Island  of  Britain. 

Llywarch  Hen,  a  Cumbrian  prince,  and  a  distinguished  bard  of  the  sixth 
century,  who  is  recorded  as  one  of  the  three  wise-counselling  equestrians  of 
Arthur's  court,  names  him  repeatedly  as  a  great  warrior.  See  Owen's  transla- 
tion of  Llywarch  Hen's  Heroic  Elegies. 

Nennius  is  considered  to  have  written  his  **Historia  Brittonum"  in  the 
ninth  century  ;  or  about  three  hundred  years  after  Arthur's  death  ;  but 
prior  to  the  romances  of  the  middle  ages  :  and  Mark  the  Hermit's  copy  of  it, 

2  z 


356  lESTYN,  THE  SON  OF  GWRaAN. 

enemy  if  otherwise  vanquishable  ;  ordaining  that  whoever  would 
do  so,  unless  where  no  alternative  offered,  should  thereby  lose  his 
military  immunities  and  the  refuge  of  Saints ;  which  law  became 
adopted  by  other  kings  after  him.^ 


in  the  Vatican,  is,  from  internal  tests,  assigned  to  the  tenth  centuiy.  This 
work  introduces  Arthur  as  the  Leader  of  War  ("dux  belli")  in  accordance 
with  the  Triads,  and  other  ancient  Welsh  records,  in  which  the  federal 
sovereign  ia  frequently  termed — Catteym^  or  War-King, —  and  his  monarchy 
— Catteÿmedd,  or  War  Sovereignty.  The  same  venerable  author  also  describes 
him  as  the  foarlike  Arthur ^  ("belliger  Arthur")  and  enumerates  his  twelve 
great  battles. 

Several  authors,  under  an  impression  that  he  succeeded  to  the  patenial 
government,  have  considered  Adras,  Arthrwys,  and  Arthur,  as  difiPerent 
modifications  of  the  same  name  ;  a  supposition,  however,  that  will  be  found 
untenable  upon  mature  inquiry. — Those  who  continue  to  deny  his  very  exis- 
tence, would,  apparently,  require  proofs,  little  short  of  ocular  demonstratîoiiÿ 
to  induce  a  change  of  opinion.  To  such,  the  arguments  here  presented  may 
have  little  or  no  weight. 

Lady  Chablottb  Guest,  who  has  honoured  Wales  with  such  excellent 
Translations  and  Illustrations  of  the  Mabikooion,  or  Institutional  Tales,  can 
view  Arthur  only  as  the  JuUoed  Sovereign  of  Chivalry  ;  and  (consigning  the 
realities  of  his  life  to  less  ardent  minds)  she  introduces  him  as  such  to 
her  readers.    See  "  Ladt  op  the  fountain,"  p.  8Ô. 

1  The  Chronicle  here  breaks  off  abruptly,  long  before  the  reign  of  lestyn, 
which  the  title  mentions  as  the  purposed  extent.  The  defect  is,  doabtlefl^ 
attributable  to  imperfection  of  MS.  at  some  period  or  other  of  transcrìptíon. 


THE  NAMES  AND  GENEALOGY  OF  THE  KINGS 
OF  GLAMORGAN, 

FROM    MORGAN  MWYNFAWR  TO  THE  TIME   OF  lESTYN   AB  GWR- 
GAN;  WITH  THE  NAMES  OF  THE  ALIEN  LORDS  FROM 
lESTYN'S  PERIOD  TO  THAT  OF  SIR  WILLIAM 
HERBERT,  LORD  OF  GLAMORGAN.! 

1 .  Morgan  Mwynfawr,  was  king  of  Glamorgan  ; — and  it  was 
he  who  gave  this  name  to  that  country.*  He  was  a  good, 
merciful,  valiant,  profoundly  wise,  courteous,  and  humane  king  ;* 
excelling  all  his  contemporaries  in  gentleness  and  generosity.     He 

'  From  lolo  Morganwg's  copy  of  Llywelyn  Sion's  transcript,  which  was 
written,  probably,  about  1580.  Sir  Edward  Mansel  mentions  Llywelyn  Sion 
as  "  Llywelyn  John  of  Langewydd."    See,  also,  Camb.  Biog.  p.  228. 

'  Notwithstanding  the  claim  laid  in  favour  of  Morgan  ab  Bleddyn,  p.  336^ 
it  is  borne  out  by  satisfactory  authorities,  that  Glamorgan  (Gwlad-Forgan, 
or  the  country  of  Morgan)  derived  its  name  from  Morgan  Mwynfawr  ;  for, 
until  his  time,  this  territory  was  known  by  the  primitive  appellation, — Esstll- 
wo,  or  Siluria,  according  to  the  Roman  modification  of  it ; — but  its  limits  at 
his  accession  appear  to  have  been  reduced.  Gwent  is  a  very  ancient  name 
for  a  considerable  portion  of  the  same  country  ;  still  it  never  was  an  intcr- 
cbangeablc  term  with  Siluria,  for  the  same  principality  ;  but  rather  implied 
a  minor  district,  of  far  less  extent  in  some  directions  ;  but  entirely  included 
in  the  other.  The  Roman  station  Venta  Siluruniy  or  Gwent  of  the  Silures, 
(in  distinction  from  other  Gwents)  not  only  retains  both  of  these  ancient 
names,  but  also  shows  the  inclusion  of  the  fonner  district  in  the  latter. 
Several  writers  have  confounded  this  prince  with  Morgan  Hen,  who  reigned 
about  three  centuries  and  a  half  after  him  ;  and,  unaccountably,  Mr.  W. 
Owen  (Dr.  O.  Pughe)  has  fallen  into  the  same  error,  in  his  "Cambrian 
Biography,"  a  work,  generally,  of  great  merit ;  but,  like  all  other  first  at- 
tempts in  any  branch  of  literature,  it  is  erroneous  in  some  respects,  and 
deficient  in  others.  The  first  number  of  a  similar  publication,  by  the 
Rev.  R.  Williams,  of  Ch.  Ch.  Oxon,  has  just  emanated  from  the  press ;  and, 
if  we  may  anticipate  the  merit  of  the  whole  from  this  specimen,  it  will  be  a 
valuable  acquisition.    Sec  notes  to  Morgan  ab  Adras,  p.  354. 

*  The  excessive  application  of  epithets,  observable  here  and  other  places,  is 
a  feature  that  occasionally  characterizes  other  cognate  dialects  of  the  primi- 
tive Celtic  language.  In  the  important  works  recently  published  by  the 
Irish  Archsological  Society,  redundances  of  this  sort  frequently  attract 
attention. 


358  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

established  good  and  just  laws  and  institutes  for  the  welfare  of  ins 
dominion ;  and  so  greatly  was  he  beloved  in  his  country,  that 
when  he  went  out  to  war,  all  chose  to  accompany  him  rather  than 
remain  at  home.  He  was  invariably  victorious  over  his  enemies ; 
and  made  a  law  that  neither  himself,  nor  any  of  his  men,  should 
exercise  cruelty  either  to  a  vanquished  foe,  or  any  other  living 
being ;  and  that  no  illegal  deed  should  be  perpetrated  in  tyranny, 
nor  any  law  enacted  from  aversion  or  envy.  All  this  caused  such 
pervading  love  to  be  cherished  throughout  the  land,  that  thence 
sprang  the  proverb, — "The  suavity  of  Glamorgan."  He  estab- 
lished an  ordinance  that  enjoined  the  appointment  of  twelve  ¥rise, 
erudite,  pious,  and  mercifiü  men,  to  determine  all  claims  ;^  the 

^  The  origin  of  Trial  by  Jury  has  given  rise  to  much  oontroveny,  aeoording 
to  the  varied  views  in  which  the  ancient  usages  of  different  states  have  been 
considered.  Sir  Francis  Palgrave,  in  his  History  of  the  EngiUh  OommcnweaiAf 
maintains  that,  if  not  actually  introduced  by  the  Conqueror,  it  was  derired 
from  the  Normans;  but  had  this  eminent  author  been  aware  of  Morgam 
M  wynfawr's  juridical  institution,  and  its  adoption,  not  only  by  his  deseendanti^ 
but  even  by  the  alien  lords  who  succeeded  them  by  conquest,  his  unpngii- 
diced  mind  would  not  have  disregarded  altogether  the  initiatory  daim  of 
Glamorgan  to  this  vital  principle  of  legal  science. 

In  Rees  Meyrick  of  Cottrel's  ''Morganis  Archaiographia''  (1578)  the  sub- 
stitution of  Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon's  twelve  knights  for  the  previous  juridioal 
authorities,  is  noticed ;  and  also  the  partial  restoration  of  ancient  customs  and 
usages,  to  allay  the  repugnance  of  the  natives  to  the  feudal  system,  attempted 
to  be  enforced  on  them.  Sir  Edward  Mansel  of  Maigam,  but  of  Nonoan 
descent,  and  hence  not  liable  here  to  national  prejudices  in  fiivour  of  the  old 
system,  makes  the  following  explicit  observations  on  the  subject,  in  his  manu- 
script ''Account  of  the  Conquest  of  Glamorgan,"  written  in  1691. 

''  Before  the  time  of  Robert  Fitzhamon  there  was  one  Chief  Lord  of  Gla^ 
morgan  whose  were  the  high  Royalties,  and  he  assembled  the  oiher  Lords 
every  month  to  his  Court  where  all  matters  of  Justice  were  determined  and 
finally  settled,  these  Lords  sat  in  Judgment  on  all  matters  of  Law,  with 
twelve  Freeholders  from  every  Lordship  to  give  opinions  after  what  came  to 
their  knowledge,  and  the  Bishop  of  Uandaff  sat  in  the  high  Court  as  a  Coon- 
cellor  of  Conscience  according  to  the  Laws  of  God,  this  Court  was  formed 
they  say  by  Morgan  who  was  Prince  of  the  Country  after  King  Arthur  in 
the  manner  of  Christ  and  his  twelve  apostles,  and  this  form  of  Law  was  kept  bj 
Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon  according  to  the  old  usage  of  the  Country,  after  the 
high  Court  was  held,  which  lasted  three  days,  the  Courts  of  the  twelve  Lmd- 
ships  were  held  in  turn,  and  from  them  an  appeal  might  be  made  to  the  high 
Court  of  the  Country,  the  Lord  and  his  yeomen  in  the  same  form  and  maniMr 
as  in  the  high  Court. 

"  After  the  winning  of  the  Cotmtry  by  Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon,  1m  took  to 
him  his  twelve  knights  to  supply  the  places  in  his  Courts  of  the  Lawfd  and 


THE   KINGS   OF   GLAMORGAN.  359 

king  being  their  supreme  counsellor.  This  act  was  called  the  Apos- 
tolical law ;  because  it  is  thus  that  Christ  and  his  twelve  apostles 
judge  the  world ;  consequently,  so  should  the  king  and  his  twelve 
wise-men  judge  the  country  in  mercy  and  mildness  ;  that  in  this 
manner  judgment,  justice,  and  mercy,  should  be  administered 
according  to  the  nature  and  equity  of  the  claim.  He  likewise 
ordained  that  the  testimony  of  any  one  should  be  rejected  in  all 
matters  whatever  of  church  and  state,  who  should  conduct  himself 
in  an  impiously  haughty,  ferocious,  or  cruel«  manner,  to  any  living 
being ;  whether  a  neighbour  or  a  stranger,  a  friend  or  foe, — a  Cam- 
brian or  an  alien ;  and  that  no  credence  whatever  should  be  given 
to  his  evidence,  until  the  expiration  of  a  year  and  a  day  after  he 

night  Lords  of  the  twelve  Lordships,  which  caused  discontent  insomuch  that 
Welsh  Lords  took  arms  under  Pain  Turher\rille  and  Caradock  ab  lestyn  and 
Madoc  his  Brother,  and  they  came  to  Cardiff  Castle  and  surrounded  it  inso- 
much that  it  was  on  the  point  of  being  taken  when  Kiag  Henry  the  first  going 
to  the  top  of  the  Raven  Tower  to  enquire  concerning  the  tumult  which  was 
heard,  he  saw  the  place  all  encompassed  by  fierce  armed  men,  whereupon  he 
called  a  parley  when  Pain  Turberville  told  him  the  reason  saying  that  if 
rightful  orders  were  not  made,  to  restore  the  Laws  of  Morgan  the  first,  that 
he  and  Robert  Fitzhamon  should  feel  at  the  ears  very  soon  of  what  stuff  the 
Castle  waUs  were  of  at  the  heart  on  which  all  in  the  Castle  councelled  toge* 
ther,  and  it  was  seen  best  to  yield  to  the  Country  that  request." 

In  another  place  he  refers  to  a  second  perfidious  infraction  of  the  ancient 
Laws,  notwithstanding  the  previous  stipulation. 

**  Ifor  Petit  rose  up  the  country  for  that  the  old  laws  were  not  kept  to,  and 
ëi  this  time  it  was  again  settled  for  the  proper  Courts  to  be  held  in  all  the 
Lordflhlpe  and  the  Lords  of  the  Courts  to  join  with  the  Chief  Lord  in  hia 
high  Court  which  Laws  had  been  a  second  time  broke  by  the  Norman  Lords, 
and  in  this  engagement  as  was  said  before  the  Welsh  Lords  won  the  right 
and  it  so  remained  till  Wales  and  England  were  united  in  one  Realm,  and  the 
Laws  were  altered." 

"  So  good  was  the  manner  of  Rule  and  Government  in  Glamorgan  thought 
of  that  many  things  were  taken  from  it  to  add  to  the  Laws  of  England,  and 
more  specially  in  the  time  of  King  Elfred." 

Morgan  Mwynfftwr  is  called  by  Sir  Edward,  Morgan  the  firsts  to  distin- 
guish him  from  succeeding  princes  of  that  name :  but,  according  to  this 
Chronicle,  with  which  he  may  not  have  been  acquainted,  he  was,  in  fact,  the 
•eoond ; — the  22nd  sovereign  (Morgan  ab  Bleddyn)  being  Morgan  the  firsL 
In  explanation,  it  should  be  observed,  that  historical  accounts  of  this  lineage 
generally  commence  with  Morgan  Mwynfawr. 

The  successful  resistance  of  Ifor  Petit  (A.  D.  1110)  took  pkice  in  the  time 
of  Robert  Earl  of  Gloucester,  the  second  Norman  Lord  of  Glamorgan  ;  and 
is  recorded  by  Caradoc  of  Llancarvan.    See  My  v.  Arch.  II.  p.  540. 

A  different  copy  of  the  above  MS.  work,  purporting  to  be  ''  Another  ac- 


360  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

should  have,  in  public  court,  both  civil  and  ecclesiastic,  abjured^  by 
wood^  fields  and  mountain,^  his  wrongful  conduct,  whether  in  word 
or  deed ;  adducing,  at  the  same  time  evidence  to  testify,  from  con-f 
scientious  knowledge,  his  upright,  just,  and  repentant  conduct 
towards  all ;  and  that  he  had,  to  his  utmost  ability,  rectified  the 


count  of  the  coming  of  the  Normans  in  a  shorter  stony  than  that  before  by 
Sir  Edwai'd  Mansel  of  Morgam"  (Thomas  Trueman)  has  these  closing 
observations : — 

**  Courts  of  like  nature  were  held  by  turn  in  all  the  other  twelve  Lorddiips, 
where  sat  the  Lords  in  Judgment  with  their  yeomen  as  substantiates  of  the 
Country  to  prove  evidence  and  report  very  much  after  the  nature  of  the 
Juries  that  now  are  in  the  King's  Courts  of  Sessions." 

The  Shorter  Account  ends  thus  :  "In  my  searching  I  have  looked  for  the 
truth  in  such  manner  as  to  give  pleasure  to  men  and  Glory  to  God  :" — and 
the  Longer  Account  has  this  conclusion ;  "  and  this  I  gathered  from  numbers 
of  old  Books  and  much  Labour  and  pains  of  Study, 

Edward  Mansel." 

In  recording  the  demolition  of  Llantrythyd  Castle,  he  says  that  ^the  place 
was  never  afterwards  built  castle  fashion,  but  in  form  of  a  Great  Place  house 
as  it  is  at  this  day  to  be  seen,  1591/' — thus  determining  the  date  of  his 
clever  Account. 

He  was  contemporary  with  Rees  Meyrick,  and  also  with  Sir  Edward  Strad- 
ling,  another  historian  of  the  Norman  conquest  of  GlamorgaaffLewys  Dwnn, 
in  his  '^Heraldic  Visitation  of  Wales  and  the  Marches,  temp.  Eliz.*'  enumeratee 
the  three,  as  eminent  authors  on  Welsh  History ;  and,  with  his  characteristic 
zeal,  invokes  the  Almighty's  blessing  on  them,  for  their  kind  hospitality  to  hhn; 
and  for  the  great  information  he  derived  from  them.  Sir  Samuel  R.  Meyrick 
has  prepared  Dwnn's  important  work  for  publication,  and  it  will  shortly  vp- 
pear.    It  is  a  source  of  peculiar  gratification  that  it  is  in  such  able  hands. 

Sir  Thomas  Phillips,  Bart,  of  Middle  Hill,  zealously  anxious  for  the  pre^ 
servation  of  Rees  Meyrick's  History  from  final  destruction,  has  liberally  pub- 
lished, or  rather  printed  at  his  private  press,  a  limited  number  of  copies  of 
it,  (from  the  only  remaining  MS.)  for  distribution  among  his  Mends;  a 
patriotic  course,  which,  had  it  been  heretofore  adopted  by  others,  would  have 
preserved  from  destruction  many  ancient  and  valuable  works  on  Welsh  liter- 
ature, that  are  now  irretrievably  lost. 

From  the  close  scrutiny  of  evidences  enjoined  in  the  text,  it  should  seem 
that  Morgan  Mwynfawr's  Institution  involved,  not  only  Juries  of  aocusatioii 
and  inquisition,  but  also  a  juridical  principle,  as  described  by  Sir  E.  MAnfM>l^ 
^  much  after  the  nature  of  Juries  that  are  now  in  the  Courts"  of  Law. 

*  The  peculiar  phrase—"  By  Wood,  Field,  and  Mountain,  (Coed,  Maes»  a 
Mynydd)  an  expression  rather  of  denial  or  vehement  assertion,  than  of  genend 
affirmation,  is  still  used  in  the  Vale  of  Glamorgan  and  Gwent ;  where  thej 
say  *'  Fe  wadwys,  neu  haerwys — Goed,  Maes,  a  Mynydd.*'  (He  denied,  or 
vehemently  asserted,  by  Wood,  Field,  and  Mountain.)  In  some  respects  it 
seems  equivalent  to  the  Roman  Catholic  supplication — ^"By  fietf,  Book,  and 


THE   KINGS   OF   GLAMORGAN.  3G1 

injustice  he  had  committed :  but,  upon  doing  this,  he  became  re- 
admitted to  his  national  rights,  under  the  decision  of  wise  and 
pious  counsellors. 

He  erected  a  Court  at  Margam,  a  place  which  he  raised  to  a 
Bishoprick ;  which  retained  that  distinction  during  the  lives  of  five 
bishops  ;*   when  it  became  united  to  Llandaff.     Morgan,'  when 


Candle, — It  is  evidently  a  Druidic  idiom  ;  but  its  origin  is  too  much  involved 
in  the  obscurity  of  obsolete  rites,  to  be  now  satisfactorily  explained.  The  fol- 
lowmg  ancient  triad  (the  73rd  of  "Trioedd  Bramt  a  Defod,"— or— The 
Triads  oi  Prerogatives  and  Rites,  unpublished)  may  however  impart  some  light: 

**  Tair  Gosteg  Gyflredin  y  sydd,  a  pha  bynag  ai  rybydd,  ai  hacr,  ai  gwaedd. 
ai  gwad.  a  rodder  bydded  wrth  bob  un  o'r  tair  a  dan  rybydd  undydd  a 
blwyddyn — sef  ydynt,  Maes  Arglwydd — Cyrch  golychwyd — a  gorsedd 
Beirdd." 

The  three  usual  expressions  in  commanding  silence  ;  and  whether  it  be  for 
warning, — positive  assertion, — prodamation,-— or  denial,  every  such  occasion 
must  be  announced  by  each  of  these  three  modes  ; — under  a  year  and  a  days 
notice.  The  said  terms  are  ; — the  Lord's  Champain, — ^the  established  Place 
of  Worship, — and  the  Supreme  Bardic  Chair. 

>  The  following  list  of  "Bishops  of  Glamorgan,  alias  KenflSg,"  extracted 
from  lolo  Morgan wg's  papers,  may  possibly  include  the  five  alluded  to 
in  the  text : 

"1.  ifor^an,  the  son  of  Adras,  Bishop  and  King.  2.  Ystyphan.  3.  Cattwg. 
4.  lago.  5.  Cawan.  6.  Tyfodwg.  7.  Cyfelach.  8.  Mabon."  (See  Lib.  Land.  p. 
625.)  But  it  does  not  appear  that  they  ever  ranked  higher  than  Cfun-episcopi ; 
if  all  of  them  even  attained  that  dignity.  Margam,  (originally  Morgan^  seo 
Williams's  Monm.  p.  104)  as  well  as  Glamorgan,  is  said,  and  with  apparent 
reason,  to  have  derived  its  name  from  Morgan  M^'jTifawr ;  and  the  designa- 
tion City,  conferred  on  all  Sees  of  bishops,  is  applied  to  it  by  former  writers.  In 
one  of  the  Prefaces  to  "  Ctfrinach  y  Beirdd,"  a  work  of  surpassing  erudi- 
tion on  Welsh  Prosody,  the  compilation  of  that  treatise,  from  old  authors,  is 
thus  noticed : — "  Ag  Edward  Dafydd  o  Ddinas  Margam  ym  Morganwg  ai 
trefnodd."  (And  Edward  Dafydd  of  the  City  of  Margam,  in  Glamorgan, 
arranged  it.)    See  "  Cyfrinacli  y  Beirdd"  second  Preface. 

*  The  outrage  recorded  of  him  in  the  Liber  Landavensis,  p.  390,  may  have 
been  an  instance  of  the  impetuosities  here  referred  to.  This  outrage  is  also 
laid  to  his  charge  under  the  name  of  Morcant,  in  Nicholl's  Abbots  of  Llantwit. 
Sir  Henry  Spelman  places  an  assembly  held  just  previously  at  the  church  of 
St,  Iltutus,  in  the  year  600. 

There  is  an  old  genealogy  of  the  Princes  of  Siluria,  called  "  The  Coychurch 
MS."  which  is  not  now  available  ;  but  a  translated  copy  of  it,  among  other 
extensive  and  important  contributions,  was  transmitted,  by  Mr.  Edward 
WiUiams,  to  Mr.  David  Williams,  for  his  History  of  Monmouthshire,  and  pub- 
lished in  that  work,  in  detached  portions.  This  MS.  appears  to  have  been 
mostly  compiled  from  the  sources  that  furnished  the  basis  of  the  True- 


3G2 


THE    GENEALOGY    OF 


jrouüg,  waa  of  a  wild  and  impetuous  digposition ;  but  he  auhse^ 

man  MS.;  (that  of  the  teit)  for  numerous  paoaf^tts  occur  in  hoth^  tiuii 
correspond,  verhattm,  in  expn^aaion.  But,  DotwtthfltAndiog  such  cIom 
oomcidences,  theflörecoTdspreseutsomp  varietieaftnd  discreprmcieaof  narrativ* 
that  seem,  on  the  contrary,  to  mdio^te  some  distinct  autborities.  The  Coj- 
church  Genealogy,  in  aome  instaticea,  enumerates  princefl  Ümt  are  not  noticed 
in  the  Trueman  MS,;  while  tli€  Utter,  a^in,  in  other  places,  supplies  tha 
omksions  of  the  former.  But,  although  discordíince^  of  this  miture  tend 
momentarily  to  ímpedí^  the  proj^ess  of  investigation,  stiJl,  by  carefully  col- 
latin  pc  vttrioua  gcnettlojîies,  pedígi^^es,  and  other  testimonies,  n  sfttísfnrtjìry 
couríio  of  succession,  in  the  liuenge  under  consideration,  may  be  dedi^ 
would  eventually  reconcile  the  apparent  ineongruities  of  abstract  . 
In  any  atlenipt  to  trace  the  footsteps  of  Truth^  through  the  ancient  iccnca  of 
Cambrîíin  events»  the  Liber  Landavensi*  hecomea  a  prominent  auxiliary  ;  for^ 
althoníîh  thnt  work  is  much  interwoven  with  legend  and  «uperaliliuin,  it  ìm 
still  Well  sustained  by  other  sou  rets  of  acVnowkdj^^d  üuthentit?ity,  i  "  ^ 
by  tradition  and  local  reraaìníi,  in  most  of  the  historical  portions  of  Ìt> 

It  nppcíira^  from  Trioedd  Ach  a  Bonetld,  Brain t  a  Defod,  &c.   unpuLIuLtd^ 
(the  Trinds  of  Pedigree  and  Ancestry, — i>f  Prerogatives  and  Uisages,  Ac.) 
that  it  m^-aM  incumbent  on  princes,  chieftatna^  and  other  penona  of  distiurtiout  I 
to  keep  one  domestic  Herald-lîîird  at  least,  (Arwydd&rd)  who»e  office,  anitjng 
other  obligations,  enjoined  the  duties  of  preserving  and  continuing  fiimily 
pedigrcca,  and  recording  hiâtoricnl  events.   The  appointmentj  being  one  uf  con* 
aiderable  emolument,  pririlegCj  and  dignity,  waft  highly  apprwiated  ; — hut  | 
such  wns  its  responsibility,  timt  any  dereliction  of  duty,  either  by  ncglnrt  or 
falsification,  subjected  the  delinquent  to  degratlutlon.     The  course  of  ^venta, 
however,  frequently  imparted  conflicting  features  to  the  records  thus  transniiir 
ted ;  for  the  very  fulfilment  of  one  of  the  prineijml  ohligHtions, — tliat  of  rccordi-  \ 
ing  the  rcgu  lar  auccession  of  princely  families,  hecrnne  tLte  source  of  íiiconsì>t«oi'] 
acconntíi.     By  the  law  of  Gavelkind,  so  prevalent  among  the  Brítrtn^,  not] 
only  were  extensive  properties  and  patrimonies  (oocattonally  r.  1iU«ll 

by  default  of  issue  in  <liffepent  branches)  liable  to  various  diíîiì  -,  but 

even  regal  authority  became  divisible.  In  early  agi^  diffenent  distticta  wcr* 
consigned,  by  paramount  sovereigns,  to  the  government  of  advenLuroua  dijcr«^ 
upon  the  sole  tenure  of  expelling  invaders  ;  but,  in  mo^t  instance:»^  such  trr- 
ritoriee,  however  conspicuous  in  history',  for  short  intervals,  became  cvantu<* 
ally  merged  again  in  the  primary  state,  until  re^granted^  cither  frtiRi  simiUr' 
motives  of  safety,  or  as  settlements,  in  appanage,  for  younger  aon^  aa  Uiey 
successively  attained  maturity,  Siiuria  present»  ampla  inftaiwe*  of  «tee  mẁ^ 
diviaionB  and  re-unions;  for  though  originally  but  a  priiii  -fi 

extent,  at  its  utmost  limits,  it  contained,  at  various  periotN,  fnixw* ' 

ons  of  Gwcnt,  Morganwg,  Rheged,  Glywyssyg,  Gartli  Mathrin,  ivf^iifg* 
Ffery  11  wg,  and  even  still  more  insignificant  te  rri  tor ies,  T 1 .  r  ^  < .  1 1 .  h  ^s ,-  v .  t,  ilo 
not  all  appear  to  have  been  aeparato  governments  at  the  A  hik 

the  patcmid  prince  governed  the  general  state  in  beredit^uj.   ,ir?..  y*i,  ,t  « 
usual  for  liis  heir,  on  becoming  of  age,  to  assume  the  rule  of  some  coiiMj|it*fil1 
district ;  and  even  a  second  or  tliird  son  ha^l  another  includi^d  t«jTÌtûry  mi 
larly  allotted  to  hiin.    At  the  decease  of  th'-'  ptucnt,  his  plenary  mtborHj^J 


THE   KINGS   OF   GLAMORGAN.  363 

quently  adopted  a  better  course,  and,  repenting  of  his  irrationality 
and  error,  became  the  best  king  that  ever  lived. 

does  not  always  appear  to  have  devolved  on  the  heir,  who,  from  want  of  energy, 
or  some  other  cause,  still  continued  in  his  first  settlement ;  among  the  r^:uli 
of  which  his  Bard  had  duly  enrolled  his  name  ;  while  a  more  popular  rela- 
tion, or  more  powerful  chieftain,  seized  the  hereditary  sceptre,  and  became 
recorded,  by  his  historian,  as  the  consecutive  prince.  But  in  case  of  restora- 
tion (and  in  general  legitimacy  prevailed  ultimately)  the  bard  of  the  rightful 
heir,  from  a  laudable  sense  of  justice,  recorded  his  prince  in  immediate  succes- 
sion after  the  father  :  and  thus  it  is  that  we  find,  in  separate  accounts,  two 
different  persons  named  as  sovereigns  of  the  same  country,  at  the  same  time. 

The  foregoing  observations  will  be  found  applicable  to  the  princes  that 
claim  notice  in  the  present  stage  of  this  genealogy  ;  especially  as  the  identity 
of  some  of  them  with  similar  names  that  appear  on  very  ancient  monuments, 
at  Llantwit  Major,  is  a  consideration  of  peculiar  interest ;  and,  as  such,  re- 
quires cautious  investigation. 

These  monuments  are  thus  described  by  Edward  Williams,  (priority  being 
here  given  to  the  most  ancient )and  the  account  given  by  him,  bespeaks  judi- 
cious zeal,  and  extraordinary  perseverance. 

**  About  forty  years  ago,  a  very  old  man,  named  Richard  Punter,  lived  at 
Llanmaes  juxta  Lantwit :  and,  though  only  a  shoemaker,  was  a  more  intel- 
ligent person  than  most  of  his  class.  He  had  read  history  more  than  many  ; 
was  something  of  an  antiquary ;  and  had  stored  his  memory  with  a  number 
of  interesting  popular  traditions.  I  was  then  about  twelve  or  fourteen  years 
of  age,  [the  time  here  alluded  to,  must  have  been  circ.  ann.  1758]  and,  like 
him,  fond  of  history  and  antiquities.  He,  one  day,  shewed  me  a  spot  on  the 
east  side  of  the  porch  of  the  old  church,  at  Lantwit,  where,  he  said,  a  large 
monumental  stone  lay  buried  in  the  ground,  with  an  inscription  on  it,  to  the 
memory  of  two  kings.  The  tradition  of  the  accident  that  buried  it,  he  gave 
as  follows : 

*Long  before  the  memory  of  the  oldest  persons  that  ever  he  knew,  (and  he 
was  then  about  eighty,)  for  their  knowledge  of  it  was  only  traditional,  there 
was  a  young  man  at  Lantwit,  commonly  called  WiU  the  OiarU.  He,  at  seven- 
teen years  of  age,  was  seven  feet  seven  inches  high  ;  but,  as  is  usually  the 
case  in  premature  or  preternatural  growth,  he  fell  into  a  decline,  of  which  at 
that  age  he  died.  He  had  expressed  a  wish  to  be  buried  near  the  monumental 
stone  which  stood  near  the  porch ;  his  wish  was  complied  with,  and  the  grave 
was  dug,  necessarily  much  larger  and  longer  than  usual ;  so  that  one  end  of 
it  extended  to  the  foot  of  the  stone  that  was  fixed  in  the  ground.  Just  as  the 
corpse  had  been  laid  in,  the  stone  gave  way,  and  fell  into  the  grave,  filling  it 
up  nearly.  Some  had  very  narrow  escapes  for  their  lives ;  but  as  the  stone 
was  so  large  as  not  to  be  easily  removed,  it  was  left  there,  and  covered  over 
with  earth.  After  I  had  heard  this  traditional  account,  I  had  a  great  desire 
to  dig  for  this  stone,  and  many  times  endeavoured  to  engage  the  attention  of 
several,  and  their  assistance  ;  but  my  idea  was  always  treated  with  ridicule. 

In  the  summer  of  1789,  I  employed  a  great  part  of  one  evening  in  di;;:- 
^ii^  in  search  of  this  stone,  and  found  it.     I  then  cleared  away  all  the  earth 

3a 


364  THE   aENEALOGY    OF 

2.  Einydd,  the  son  of  Morgan   Mwynfawr,  succeeded,   and 

about  it,  and,  having  obtained  assistance,  got  it  out  of  the  ground ;  and  on  it 
we  found  the  following  inscription/ — (See  below.) 

**  It  lay  on  the  ground,  where  it  had  been  raised  out  of  the  grare,  till  Au- 
gust 28th,  1793,  when  I  procured  assistance  to  erect  it  against  tiie  east  side  of 
the  porch,  where  it  now  stands.  It  must  have  been  buried  in  the  ground  be- 
fore the  continuator  of  Camden  copied  the  inscriptions  on  IltutuSy  &o.  other- 
wise he  would  certainly  have  copied  this  also. 

**  The  additions  to  Camden  were  made,  for  Wales,  by  Mr.  Edward  Uwyd, 
keeper  of  the  Ashmolean  Library,  Oxford,  a  gentleman  of  the^ost  indefiUigft- 
ble  attention  in  ancient  as  well  as  natural  history.    (He  died  in  ^1709.) 

"  The  dimensions  of  this  stone  are,  — 9  feet  high, — ^28  inches  wide  at  bot- 
tom,— 19  inches  wide  at  top, — and  14^  inches  thick.  It  is  a  silicious  freestone, 
of  the  same  kind  as  that  found  in  the  parishes  of  Coychurch,  Coyty,  &c.  in 
this  county  ;  and  is  of  a  durable  nature.  The  workmanship  is  sufficiently 
rude,  but,  at  the  same  time,  appears  to  be  in  some  degree  an  imitation  of  the 
Roman  taste  of  that  age.  The  letters  are  promiscuously  Roman  and  Etm»- 
can.  The  history  here  given  of  this  monument  affords  a  remarkable  instanoe 
of  the  fidelity  of  popular  tradition." 

Entertaining  some  doubts  as  to  the  entire  import  of  the  inscription,  I  sought 
the  valuable  assistance  of  my  worthy  friend,  the  Rev.  Thomas  Price,  (Carn- 
huanawc)  and  he  kindly  furnished  me  with  the  following  reading  and  e^qila- 
nation  of  it. 

*'  The  Inscription  on  Samson's  Cross  I  read  as  follows, — 

in  nomine  di  summi  incipit  crux  salvatoris  quae 
preparauit  samsoni  apati  pro  anima  sua  et 
pro  anima  iuthahelo  rex  et  artmali  tecani  f 
Which  in  more  granmiatical  Latin  would  be  thus, — 

In  nomine  Dei  Summi  incipit  crux  Salvatoris  quam 
pneparavit  Samson  Abbas  pro  anima  sua  et  pro 
anima  luthaheli  Regis  et  Artmali  Decani  f 

In  the  name  of  God  Most  High,  here  begins  the  Cross  of  the  Saviour, 
which  Samson  the  Abbot  prepared  for  his  own  soul  and 
the  soul  of  King  Ithael  cmd  of  Artmal  the  Dean,  f 

The  first  of  the  above  names,  I  am  satisfied,  is  that  of  St.  âbnwon,  who 
was  Bishop  of  Dole,  in  Brittany,  in  the  sixth  century ;  and  also  Abbot  of 
Lantwit.  The  next  corresponds  with  that  of  luthaei  king  of  Brittany,  the 
contemporary  and  patron  of  Samson,  sometimes  vrritten  luduaL  The  last 
name,  Artmai,  I  am  not  able  to  identify,  but  think  it  possible  that  hey  also, 
may  have  been  of  Dole.  What  appears  as  an  m  in  the  last  word,  I  take  to 
be  ni  joined  at  the  top,  like  the  in  on  Rhys's  Cross." 

My  father  (Edward  Williams)  has  left  behind  him  several  íaithfàl  cofnee 
of  this  inscription,  with  attached  readings,  in  the  present  alphabet ;  but  I 
have  not  been  able  to  discover  a  translation  by  him  ;  although,  inmi  his  < 
respondence,  I  find  that  he  has  given  it  both  in  F.ngìýal^  and  Welsh. 


.Jfttó' 


irtrt 


m 


m 


m 


m\ríi 


A' 


'i 


[UOfl 

tpct 

Mb 

^    n 


;^•A.,r  .^^     •    *■•       '- 


THE  KINQS   OF  GLAMOROAN.  365 

was  an  excellent  sovereign.      He  gave   much   wealth   to  the 

In  any  attempt  to  ascertain  the  persons  really  commemorated  by  the 
Lantwit  monuments,  the  following  lists  of  princes,  for  several  generations, 
commencing  with  Morgan  Mwynfawr,  may  render  assistance.  The  names 
given  in  Itèiicê,  correspond  with  those  inscribed,  according  to  my  conclusion, 
after  careful  consideration.    (See  Frontispiece.) 

TRÜEMAN  Ma  (TEXT.)  COYCHURCH  Ma 

1.  Morgan  Mwynfawr.  L  Morgin  Morganwg.(Mif7niawr) 

%  Binydd,  the  bod  of  Morgan.  2.  Ithel,  the  son  of  Morgan. 

&  JtAy«»  tbe  aon  of  Einydd.  3.  Einydd,  the  son  of  Morgan. 

4.  Artk/ael,  the  son  of  Rhys.  4  Rhjfê 

&  M^jyrg,  the  son  of  Arthikel.  &  Hywel,  the  son  of  Rhys. 

6L  Brochlael,  the  son  of  Meyryg.  6.  Arthfael,  the  son  of  Rhys. 

7.  Gwwifydd,  the  son  of  BrochfaeL  7.  Brochmael,  the  son  of  Meiria 

a  Arthtel  the  2nd,  the  son  of  Gwelrydd.  a  Meiric,  the  son  of  ArthfaeL 

a  Rhy»,  the  son  of  ArthfaeL  a  Gwynnydd,  or  Oweirydd,  thesoQ  of  Broch- 

la  Hywa,  the  son  of  Rhys.  10.  Arthfael,  the  son  of  Gweirydd.  [maeL 

11.  Rhys,  the  son  of  Arthfael. 

la  Uywel,  the  son  of  Rhys. 

Both  the  above  lists  commence  and  terminate  with  the  same  princes  ;  but 
tlie  first  contains  ten  generations  and  successions ;  while  the  other  has  ten 
generations  and  twelve  successions,  (brothers  following  each  other  in  two  dis- 
tinct instances  ;)  cases  that  constitute  the  sole  difference ; — ^for  the  misplacing 
of  Brochmael  hrfort  his  father  Meiric  is  too  palpable  an  error  to  require  ex- 
planation. It  is  observable,  however,  that  the  two  princes  omitted  in  the 
Tmeman  list  were  dder  brothers ;  and,  consequently,  the  first,  in  probability, 
to  obtain  separate  territories  ; — an  inference  that  is  borne  out  by  the  testi- 
monies to  be  hereafter  adduced. 

It  has  been  already  perceived  that  I  differ  with  Mr.  Price,  as  to  the  persons 
really  commemorated  on  this  monument. 

The  inscription  on  this  stone,  however,  is  evidently  to  the  memory  of  some 
Ithaei,  and  Arthfael, — names  rather  of  common  recurrence  in  Silurian  genealo- 
gies ;  and,  it  would  seem,  not  rare  in  Annorica,  at  early  periods.  It  also  express- 
ly states  that  the  stone  was  erected  by  Samson,  who,  at  one  period,  was  Arch- 
bishop of  Dole  in  Brittany,  (Stillingfleet's  Orig.  Brit.  pp.  204, — 3Í30,  &c.)  but 
at  another,  he  appears  to  have  been  Abbot  of  Lantwit :  (Rev.  D.  Nicholl's  Ab- 
bots of  Lantwit,  in  Williams's  Monm.)  he  is,  however,  stated  to  have  died 
about  Ô70,  whence  it  is  certain,  that  the  persons  thus  recorded  by  liim  to 
posterity,  must  have  been  prior  to  that  period. 

Whether  this  prelate  was  a  native  of  Amiorica  or  Siluria,  for  authorities 
are  not  altogether  concurrent  on  the  point,  it  is  quite  authentic  that  he  was 
highly  patronised  by  a  prince  of  Brittany,  variously  named  Jutliail,  Judhual, 
Juddail,  &c.  But  had  he  raised  a  monument  to  that  sovereign,  it  would  have 
been,  we  may  reasonably  suppose,  at  Dole  rather  than  at  Lantwit.  In  fur- 
therance, however,  of  Mr.  Price's  hypothesis,  which  is  by  no  means  destitute 
of  plausibility,  it  is  but  fair  to  state,  that  lltutus's  monument  appears  abo  to 
have  been  erected  by  Samson  ;  and  that  another  equally  ancient  monument  at 
LUngrallo,  (the  church  of  Crailo, — in  English,  Coychurch)  still  bears  fahitly 
his  name  on  it,  although  the  inscription  is  otherwise  obliterated  by  time.  The 
latter  monument  is,  in  all  probability,  the  venerable  gravestone  of  Crailo,  lltu- 
tus's neuh^^,  both  of  whom  were  Armoricans ;  but,  having  spent  the  greater 


366  THE   aENEALOaY   OP 

churches;   but  did  not  live  long.      He  caused  the  churches  of 


part  of  their  lives  in  this  country,  we  may  conclude  that  they  died  here,  and 
were  buried  at  the  churches  dedicated  to  them ;  which  will  account  far  th» 
erection  of  their  monuments  at  those  places. 

The  identity  of  Ithael,  otherwise  Ithel,  ihe  eon  qf  Morgan  the  Ooiurt&mi^ 

with  the  "  iuthahelo"  of  the  stone,  comes  now  under  consideration. ^The 

immediate  ancestors  of  this  prince, — (Morgan,  Adras,  Athrwya,  Meyryg, 
and  Tewdric)  were  munificent  benefactors  to  the  primitive  see  of  Lkndaff; 
(Lib.  Land.)  and  they  are  mentioned  in  Nicholl's  Abbots  of  LantwH  as  con- 
siderable benefactors,  under  the  names  Morcanty — TeudriCy — Mouricêf  êçe.  to 
that  church  also,  where  the  ancient  princes  of  the  country  were  genertUy 
buried ;  their  chief  residence  being  at  Boverton  in  the  same  parish :— and, 
were  the  vestiges  of  all  the  very  old  Lantwit  churches  closely  examined,  (the 
sites  of  seven  separate  ones  being  traditionally  pointed  out)  it  is  probable  that 
many  other  monuments  might  be  discovered,  inscribed  to  some  of  the  above, 
as  well  as  other  princes ;  although  several  are  stated  to  have  been  wantonly 
destroyed  in  the  outrageous  zeal  of  the  reformation. 

But  it  might  be  urged,  in  objection,  that  Ithael  is  not  even  mentiimed  in 
the  genealogy  of  the  text : — granted ; — ^yet,  in  the  succeeding  section,  (Kiin§Ê 
qf  GlywysygJ  he  is  not  merely  recorded  as  the  son  of  Morgan,  and  a  Prince  of 
Glywysyg,  but  also  as  a  great  benefactor  to  the  church. 

In  the  Liber  Landavensis,  (pp.  440,  446,  448,  &c.)  he  is  frequently  men- 
tioned as  ^*  King  Ithael  the  son  of  Morgan,"  and  ^^  Ithael  the  son  of  Moigin 
King  of  Glewissig ;"  and,  in  each  instance,  as  a  great  benefactor  to  the  chuidL 
Under  all  these  circumstances,  it  seems  to  me  conclusive  that,  **  King  Ithael 
thewH  of  Morgan**  is  the  *'  iuthahelo"  of  the  stone. 

Edward  Williams,  in  his  remarks  on  this  soyereîgn,  in  the  Coychmdi 
Genealogy,  says, — "  I  know  not  whether  Judhul,  who  is  twice  mentioned  in 
the  Account  of  Lantwit,  (NichoU's)  be  the  same  with  this  Ithel,  Ithail,  and 
Iuthahelo  of  the  inscription.  The  time  wherein  this  Ithel  lived  exactly  co- 
incides with  that  of  Samson,  who  died  about  Ô70." 

That  Arthfael,  the  great  grandson  of  Morgan,  corresponds  with  the 
^^  artmali "  of  the  inscription,  is  not  so  evident  as  the  preceding  case  of  iden- 
tity ;  but,  that  the  latter  name  was  Arthfael  in  Welsh  is  a  point  that  can  ad- 
mit of  little,  if  any,  doubt.  The  omission  of  the  appellation  **  rtif*  to  thif 
name,  although  applied  immediately  before  to  Ithael,  rather  perplexes  in- 
quiry. But  it  may  be  observed  here,  that  although  the  order  of  Arth&el*! 
succession  seems  to  indicate  a  latter  period  than  that  of  Samson,  still  it  does 
not  exclude  him  from  the  pale  of  possibility,  nor  even  of  some  probability, 
considering  that  the  successive  casualties  of  the  times  might  have  brought  hhn 
young  to  the  throne. 

The  association  of  a  King  with  a  Dean,  on  the  same  monument,  prodneci 
a  rather  unfavourable  impression  ;  nor  is  the  effect  at  all  neutralized  by  the 
fact  that  the  name  of  the  person  (Samson)  who  erected  and  consecrated  the 
stone,  is  also  engraved  thereon,  for  such  dedicatory  associations  have  bean 
usual  at  all  times. 


THE   KINGS   OF   GLAMORGAN.  367 

Teilo,^  Gadocus,^  and  Iltutus^  to  be  embellished,  and  built  the 
church  of  Llaneinjdd,  called  now  St.  Nicholas.^ 

3.  Rhys,*  the  son  of  Einydd,  was  a  brave  prince,  who  drove  away 


In  noticing  Kiog  Arthfad  of  the  Coychurch  Genealogy,  Edward  Williams 
sajSy  **  He  seems  to  be  the  Artimaluê  of  the  above  inscription." 

Adhering  scrupulously  to  the  appearance  presented,  Edward  Williams  could 
make  nothing  but  **  Uffam"  of  the  last  word  on  the  stone,  when  first  taken 
out  of  the  ground ;  but  he  has  marked  the  g  and  m  of  that  word  as  im- 
perfect letters.  Considering  these  defects,  Mr.  Price's  reading, — **  tecani"  is 
by  no  means  a  forced  one.  But,  after  all,  it  is  possible  enough  that  the  final 
word  was,  originally,  neither  "  tegam**  nor  "  tecaniy*—  a  suggestion  that  may 
induce  a  closer  examination,  and  thus  tend  to  an  indisputable  conclusion. 

1  LlandaflP.  '  Llancarvan. 

sUantwit  Major  probably; — although  some  MSS.  mention  Uantwit 
juta  Neath. 

*  St.  Nicholas  is  a  village  finely  situated,  a  few  miles  distant  from  the  Severn 
sea,  about  mid- way  between  Cardiff  and  Cowbridge.  Whatever  associations 
of  Einydd  might  formerly  have  existed  in  this  locality,  the  name  is  connected 
now,  with  neither  wood,  field,  nor  stream  there. 

I  inquired  of  the  Rev.  William  Bruce,  the  present  incumbent,  and  a  gen- 
tleman well  disposed  to  promote  literary  and  antiquarian  research,  but  he 
knew  of  no  tradition  remaining  there  respecting  this  prince. 

*  This  is  the  sovereign  to  whose  memory  the  monumental  cross  delineated 
in  the  frontispiece,  appears  to  have  been  erected  by  his  son  Howel,  who,  al- 
though not  included  in  Mt«  genealogy,  is  enrolled  immediately  after  his  fatíier, 
who  follows  Einydd,  in  the  Coychurch  MS.  This  Howel,  it  may  be  inferred, 
was  one  of  the  sub-reguli  of  Glamorgan,  at  one  time ;  a  circumstance  that 
may  account  for  his  omission,  in  hereditary  succession,  in  some  accounts.  In 
noticing  this  person,  Edward  Williams  says ; — '*  lie  is  probably  the  same 
with  the  Howel  mentioned  in  the  Account  of  Lantwit. — Howel  is  the  name 
also  of  a  prince  on  an  ancient  cross  there," 

Rhys  and  Howel  (father  and  son)  occur  again,  after  the  intervention  of 
five  generations,  in  this  account ;  but  from  the  close  similarity  of  the  letters 
on  this  and  the  other  monuments  just  noticed,  as  well  as  some  other  coinci- 
dent features,  characteristics  of  the  same  age  are  sufficiently  presented,  to 
preclude  the  latter  Rhys  and  Howel  from  any  association  here. 

The  history  of  the  restoration  of  this  monument  is  also  given  thus  by 
Edward  Williams : 

**  About  the  year  1730,  as  I  am  informed,  Mr.  Thomas  Morgan,  a  school- 
master at  Lantwit,  found  an  ancient  cross  of  the  same  age  and  style  with  that 
of  lltutus,  in  an  old  ruinous  place,  where  tradition  says,  a  church  formerly 
stood.  This  ancient  cross  Mr.  Thomas  Morgan  placed  on  the  ground  before 
the  church  door,  expressing  a  desire  to  be  buried  under  it ;  and  his  wish,  I 
am  told,  was  complied  with." 

He  then  gives  a  copy  of  the  inscription  ;  adhering,  as  usual,  with  the 
greatest  fidelity  to  the  forms  of  the  characters  on  the  stone,  regardless  of  any 


868  THE  GENEALOGY  OF 

the  Saxons  from  Wales.  He  built  a  church  called  Peterston- 
super-Ely.^ 

4.  Artlifael,  the  son  of  Bhys,  was  a  bold  king;  but  he  wu 
killed  in  fighting  with  the  Saxons,  near  the  church  of  Boath,^  where 
he  was  buried :  his  men,  however,  vanquished  the  enemy. 

6.  Meyryg,  the  son  of  Arthfael,  was  a  good  king,  who  attained 
superiority  in  all  laudable  pursuits.  He  kept  off  his  enemies  from 
the  country,  by  force  of  arms,  and  repressed  crimes  through  the 
efficacy  of  the  laws  of  Morgan  Mwynfawr :  thus  by  his  vigoroiis 
and  benign  government,  his  name  has  become  proverbially  dis- 
tinguished to  this  very  day,  in  the  current  adage — '^  The  name  of 
Meyrick  is  a  great  name^^  He  lived  mostly  at  Lantwit  Major, 
where  he  had  a  mansion. 

manifest  error  of  expression :  but  he  marks  some  letters  as  presenting  ^Toy 
faint  and  uncertain*'  appearances,  and  gives  ^^  confused  dots"  where  poxtioos 
of  the  inscription  appear  evidently  ^*  defaced  and  worn  out.'' 

Mr.  Price,  after  perusing  Edward  Williams's  copies  and  history  of  the  Ltni- 
wit  inscriptions,  and  having  procured  a  tracing  from  the  original,  has  no- 
ceeded,  I  am  persuaded,  in  giving  the  correct  reading  of  it, — ^thus  : 

^^  The  inscription  on  what  I  have  ventured  to  call  Rhys's  Croes  at  Lantwit, 
when  perfect,  I  imagine  must  have  been  as  follows, — ^the  obliterated  por- 
tions being  given  in  Italics. 

t  in  nomine  dl  patris  et  fiH  &  speretus  santi  banc  cmcem 
houel  tprope^abit  pro  anima  res  pa/res  e^us 

Which,  in  grammatical  Latin,  would  be  thus, — 

f  In  nomine  Dei  Patris  et  Filii  et  Spiritûs  Sancti ;  banc  cmoem 
Houel  impropetravit  pro  anima  Res,  patris  ejus. 

f  In  the  name  of  God  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Holy  Ghott : 
this  Cross  Howel  caused  to  be  made  for  the  soul  of  Rhys  his  ftther. 

You  will  notice  that  I  have  not  joined  what  appears  as  a  <  to  the  mtà 
hwel  as  I  conceive  it  to  be  intended  for  the  contraction  I  (on J  the  prefix  to 
propetravUy  and  that  by  a  mistake  of  the  sculptor  it  was  cut  in  its  presoit 
form,  just  as  the  t  at  the  end  of  Santi  was  curved,  and  joined  to  tiie  A  ia 
hanc  and  thus  made  into  a.<f,  and  has  been  mistaken  for  that  letter.  The  j^ ia 
(ffuê,  1  take  to  be  formed  by  lengthening  the  first  limb  of  the  ti.  Pujjwftn  ii 
a  Low-Latin  word,  and  very  expressive." 

^  Llanbedr  ar  Fro ;  Peterston-super-Ely,  in  Glamorganshire. 

s  Rhath  ;  Roath  church  is  about  a  mile  and  a  half  N.  £.  by  K  of  Cardiff. 
It  is  probable  that  the  Roman  station  Ratostabius  derived  its  appellaticni  fraa 
the  Cambro- British  name  (Rhath)  of  this  place,  which  seems  to  oomipond 
with  the  locality  of  that  station. 

>  CEnw  mawr  yw  enw  Meyryg,)  This  honourable  expression  was^  aoooid- 
ing  to  the  Coychurch  MS.  originally  applied  to  iieyryg  ab  Tewdiic.    It  ivill 


THE  KINGS  OF  GLAMORGAN.  369 

6.  Brochfael,*  the  son  of  Meyryg,  who  succeeded  to  the  throne, 
erected  many  churches  and  castles;  and  performed  other  great 
actions,  both  good  and  bad.  He  was  the  first  who  built  a  castle 
at  Cardiff,  where  still  existed  extensive  remains  of  an  ancient 
royal  city. 

7.  Ghveirydd,*  the  son  of  Brochfael,  was  a  wise,  but  unfortunate 
king;  for  diseases  and  rough  ungenial  seasons  had  greatly  damaged 
the  country;^  being  the  calamitous  consequences  of  wickedness 
that  occured  in  his  age;  and  which  emanated  from  a  prevalent 
recourse  to  depravity,  illegality,  and  impious  abominations.    He 


be  fbond  appropriated  again  to  another  Meyryg.  It  is  conclusiye,  from  vari- 
<nu  concnrrent  testimonies,  that  a  King  Meyryg  reigned  in  Glamorgan  about 
this  period,  which,  we  may  fairly  infer,  did  not  extend  far  into  the  seventh 
eentary,  but  his  parentage  appears  involved  in  some  confusion.  In  the  Liher 
LftndaTensis  he  is  very  often  recorded  as  a  great  benefactor  to  the  church  of 
Llandaff,  under  the  name  of  Meurig  the  son  of  Ithael,  the  son  of  Morgan. 
In  the  Coychurch  MS.  he  is  named  Meyric  the  son  of  Rhys,  the  son  of  Ithael. 
(Williams's  Monm.  p.  106.)  It  is  not  improbable  that  two  princes  of  this 
name  governed,  in  rather  close  succession,  about  this  period,  either  as  kingt 
of  Glamorgan,  or  among  its  sub-reguli. 

1  It  would  seem  that  the  Brochfael  here  mentioned  was  the  first  to  restore 
Cardiff  from  its  Roman  ruins  to  the  rank  of  a  place  of  populous  residence. 
From  the  memoir  of  Morgan  the  son  of  Howel,  or  Morgan  Hen,  the  11th 
sovereign  of  this  section  ;  it  would  appear  that  this  Brochfael  lived  rather  be- 
yond the  year  660,  in  which  Cadwaladr  is  stated,  by  Caradoc  of  Llancarvan, 
to  have  ascended  the  throne  of  Britain.  We  find  a  Brochmael  ab  Meurig 
recorded  in  the 'Lib.  Land,  in  the  times  of  several  Bishops ;  some  of  which 
lived  80  long  before  the  others,  as  to  induce  a  belief  that  errors  must  have 
crept  somewhere  into  the  statements  there  respecting  him. 

'  Gweirydd,  in  Nicholl's  Abbots  of  Lantwit  Major,  is  called  Guedguerius. 
In  many  MSS.  he  is  named  Quedquerius. 

*  Edward  Williams,  in  noticing  Gweirydd,  (Williams's  Monm.  Ap.  68.)  says 
^  If  other  historians  mention  bad  weather  and  pestilential  times  in  those  ages, 
the  dates  may  thence  be  tolerably  ascertained."  The  suggestion  of  the  above 
jndidous  note  tends  to  the  attainment  of  the  anticipated  desideratum  ;  for  we 
find  in  Caradoc  of  Lancarvan's  Chronicle  of  the  Princes,  (My  v.  Arch.  p.  468) 
that  the  pestilence  called  "Y  Fall  felen,"  or  The  Yellow  Putridity,  made  its 
appearance  in  A.  D.  674  in  this  Island,  causing  great  mortality  and  famine 
for  eleven  years  ;  and  that,  in  consequence,  "  Cadwaladr,  together  with  nuiny 
of  the  principal  families  of  the  Britons,  went  over  to  Letavia  or  Armorica." 
By  carefully  comparing  various  events,  as  related  by  different  historians,  and 
computing  upon  the  average  duration  of  reigns,  it  will  be  found  that  Gweir- 
ydd and  Cadwaladr  were  contemporaries.  The  former  probably  commenced 
hm  reign  somewhere  between  670  and  680. 


370  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

built  the  church  of  Llanweirydd,  which  is  called  now, — Y  CoêroM^ 
[The  Fortifications,]  where  he  had  a  mansion,  although  he  h^d 
his  court  at  Cardiff. 


1  Caeran  isithe  Welsh  term  for  fortifications.  The  ancient  fortifications  at 
Caerau  are  of  Roman  formation  ;  consequently  the  locality  must  have  boni6 
that  designation  long  before  a  Christian  church  was  built  there  by  this  prince^ 
and  called  Llanweirydd^  after  his  own  name.  It  is  probable  that  this  latter 
ecclesiastical  name  never  became  generally  acknowledged,  for  we  find  the 
place  noticed  in  history  only  by  its  former  name,  CaeraUy  which  it  still  re- 
tains. Many  places  in  Glamorgan,  and  throughout  the  primitive  Diocese  of  the 
venerable  Dyfrig,  (St.  Dubricius)  present  instances  of  altered  names ;— «oeh 
as  Senghenydd,  changed  to  Caerffiliy  (St.  Cenydd  and  his  son  Ffili,  from  whom 
these  names  originated,  lived  in  the  sixth  century)  Llanufelwyn  to  SmU 
lorysy  or  St.  George's  ;  (Ufelwyn,  or  the  Sacred  sparky  was  Ffili's  brother.) 
Llangawrdaf  to//i!anÿrŵatnÿjr  Llanwerydd  to  San-Dunwÿdy  or,  8í.Danafê; 
Aberhemant,  to  Fonmony  or,  Faiämontj  according  to  some  MSS. ;  Llanmi- 
hangel  y  Twyn,  to  Flemingston  ;  Llaneinydd,  to  St,  Nicholoê ;  &c  (For 
several  of  these,  see  My  v.  Arch.  II.  pp.525 — 6.  From  the  very  considemble 
number  of  ancient  British  names  of  places,  (now  either  extinct,  or  altered 
into  other  designations,  consequent  on  the  settlement  of  Normans,  Flemings, 
&c.  in  different  parts  of  this  district,)  which  we  find  recorded  in  the  IÀ. 
Land,  it  is  manifest  that  the  above  constitute  but  a  small  portion  of  the 
changes  of  this  sort  that  progressively  took  place. 

An  extraordinary  instance  of  longevity  is  connected  with  this  plaee, 
(Caerau.)  On  the  further  side  of  a  dingle,  immediately  to  the  east  of  Caersn 
church,  appear  some  vestiges  of  a  house,  garden,  and  orchard,  where,  local 
tradition  still  says,  an  **  Old  Man^^*  named  William  Edwards,  lived  to  an 
extrawdinary  extension  of  human  existence  ;  having  witnessed  the  entire  dn* 
ration  of  the  sixteenth  century,  and  nearly  seventy  years  of  the  seventeentL 
The  site  of  his  residence  is  still  called  by  the  surrounding  natives,  **  Ty  yr 
Hen  Ddyn"  or  the  "  Old  Man^s  House,'*  Many  years  ago,  a  tombstone^  in- 
scrihed  to  his  memory,  was  to  be  seen  in  this  church,  under  the  south  win- 
dow. Edward  Williams  had  frequently  noticed  it ;  and  at  one  time  he  took 
a  careful  fac-simile  of  its  form  and  inscription  ;  of  both  which  the  confrontÍDf 
delineation  is  a  faithful  copy,  so  far  as  typographical  arrangements  would  ad- 
mit. Soon  after  this  fac-simile  was  taken,  the  stone  was  culpahly  ranoTsd 
by  the  Parish  Clerk,  and  placed,  inscription  downwards»  as  an  heartli- 
stone  before  his  own  fire-place  :  (Malkin's  Scenery  of  SouUi  Wales,  vol  U. 
p.  548.)  and  when,  some  years  ago,  I  went  there  to  ascertain  its  fiite,  I  was 
informed  by  an  old  man  who  resided  close  to  the  Clerk's  house»  that,  about 
six  months  previously,  it  had  been  cleared  out,  having  become  quite  broknto 
pieces,  and  mostly  pulverised.  This  is  one  of  the  many  glaring  iTiffta^fff  of 
neglected  duty  on  the  part  of  parochial  authorities,  by  which  our  ehuthes 
have  been  successively  despoiled  of  the  venerable  renudns  of  antiquity  :  sad 
justice  demands  that  the  officiating  minbters  of  this  place  should  donÛy  ] 
take  of  the  censure  so  undeniably  incurred ;  for  íA^y  could  plead 


THE  KINGS  OF   GLAMORGAN. 


371 


8.  Arthfael  the  second,  the  son  of  Gweirydd,  was  more  prospe- 
rous ;  for  he  expelled  the  Saxons,  denied  them  contribution,  and 
vanquished  them  in  battle. 

9.  Khys,  the  son  of  Arthfael,  built  many  strong  castles,  and  con- 
structed a  considerable  number  of  ships.     He  enacted  a  law  that 


nonaitendance,  nor  want  of  education,  to  palliate,  not  only  their  total  want 
of  taste,  but  also  their  disregard  of  kindred  associations  and  the  sanctuary 
of  the  grave. 

The  Tombstone  and  its  Inscription. 


I. 

i 

r 

i' 

5  ' 


I 


I 


§ 


!   PS 


HEARE       LIETH       THE       BO 


O  Happy  Change 
&  Ever  Blest 
When  Griefe  &  Pain  is 
Changed  To  Rest. 

HEARE     LIRTH     THE     BODY 
OP  VAUOHAN  EDWARDS  GENT 
DECEASED  4  DAY  OP 
DECEMBER     ANNO     DOMINI 
1669    AGED    83. 


aa.i   Ao  fz  anx  ajii  sihx 


But  a  much  more  extraordinary  instance  of  longevity  is  recorded  in  an  old 
parish  regbter  of  Lanmaes  juxta  Lantwit  Major,  where  the  following  entry 
appears  ; — 

**  Ivan  Yorath  buried  a  saterdaye  the  xvii  daye  of  July  anno  doni  1621 
et  anno  Regni  regis  vicesimo  primo,  annoq  statis  circa  180.  he  was  a 
soldier  in  the  fighte  of  Boswoorthe  and  lived  at  Lantwitt  major,  and  he  lived 
mnche  by  fishing." 

There  are  other  very  remarkable  ages  recorded  in  this  register  of  Lanmaes ; 
but  Ivan  Yorath' s,  being  the  greatest,  as  well  as  the  best  supported  by  cir- 
cumstances, is  the  only  one  selected  here.  ( See  Malkin's  Scenery  of  South 
Wales,  vol.  II.  p.  6i5.  for  numerous  instances  of  longevity,  supplied, 
among  other  extensive  contributions  to  that  interesting  work,  by  Edward 
Williams.) 

3  B 


372  THE   GENEALOGY    OF 

every  landed  proprietor  in  the  vale,  should  sow  half  of  it  in  corn; 
that  every  such  owner  in  the  hills,  should  similarly  appropriate  a 
fourth  part  of  it ;  and  that  all  lands  that  were  neither  com  nor  hay 
ground,  nor  yet  depastured  by  live  stock,  should  revert  to  the  king 
at  the  expiration  of  a  year  and  a  day  after  legal  claim ; — ^uiless 
such  land  should  be  deemed  legal  woodland  or  forest-land.  This 
enactment  caused  ample  abundance  of  provision  for  man  and  beast 
in  the  country,  until  it  became  the  resort  of  persons  from  all  parts  o{ 
Wales,  as  a  chosen  place  of  residence ;  and  so  very  populous  and 
powerful,  that  Glamorgan  acquired  the  appellation  of  ^^  Qneen  of 
countries,'"  from  its  fruitfulness  and  numerous  inhabitants. 

10.  Howel,    the  son  of  Rhys,   made  war  on   the    lords   of 
the  country  of  Brychan,^  for  the  districts  of  Ystrad-Yw*  and 


Ivan  Yorath's  extraordinary  duration  of  life  seems  to  be  satisfiictorily  sus- 
tained by  the  Register ;  where  his  service  in  the  Battle  of  Boswortii  ap- 
pears to  have  been  carefully  recorded,  in  corroboration  of  his  great  age ;  as 
if  from  a  misgiving  that  the  reality  of  so  extreme  an  extension  of  human  exis- 
tence would  be  held,  by  futurity,  in  great  doubt,  unless  convincingly  attested. 
From  the  cautious  expression  about  ('circa  180 J  prefixed  to  his  age,  its  dura- 
tion was  probably  either  deduced  from  data  supplied  at  diflRerent  times  by 
himself,  or  from  the  oral  transmission  of  his  kindred,  in  suocesaion ;  for  the 
time  of  his  birth  must  have  become  a  circumstance  of  tradition  when  hii 
singularly  protracted  locomotion  on  earth  terminated. 

The  battle  of  Bosworth,  in  which  the  register  states  that  he  fought^  took 
place  in  1483, — 138  years  before  his  decease :  now,  supposing  that  lie  wai 
only  32  years  old  then,  he  must  liave  been  170,  at  least,  at  his  death ;— bat 
if  42,  (by  no  means  an  improbable  supposition)  the  record  of  his  i^  has  beat 
correctly  given.  In  fact,  the  statement  of  the  register  has  altogether  an  air  of 
authenticity,  and  affords,  perhaps,  a  better  corroboration  of  extreme  longe- 
vity, that  can  be  adduced  in  support  of  any  other  instance  on  British  record. 

The  following  synoptical  statement  may  not  be  deemed  irreleTant. 

Ivan  Yorath  died  in         1021,  aged  180,— hence  he  was  born  in  14fL 

Old  Parr  died  in  1635.  aged  152,— and.  therefore,  was  born  In     14S8. 

William  Edwards  died  in  1668.  aged  168,-  therefore  he  was  bom  in        UMl 
Henry  Jenkins  died  in       1670,  aged  169,— consequently  he  was  bom  in  160L 

It  is  remarkable  that  these  four  persons  were  bom  before  the  introdnetMNi 
of  parish  registers,  which  were  first  instituted  by  the  unfortimate  Tbom» 
Cromwell,  Earl  of  Essex,  while  Vicar  General  to  Henry  YIII.  in  ISOSftaa 
that  they  all  died  after  those  useful  records  had  become  general. 

1  The  present  coimty  of  Brecknock  was  contained  in  the  country  of  Bty- 
chan,  which,  however,  included  additional  districts. 

2  YsTRAD  Yw  appears  to  have  been  the  ancient  name  of  the  eonntiy  knowB 
now  as  the  hundred  of  Crickhowel,  in  Brecknockshire  ;  but,  in  Owen's  ^KiP 
of  Wales  according  to  its  Ancient  Divisions,"  it  is  confined  too  much  to  tbt 


THE   KINGS   OF   GLAMORGAN.  373 

Euas,!  which  territories  appertained,  in  justice,  to  Howel  aijd  the 
country  of  Glamorgan ;  but  the  lords  of  Brecknock  transferred  their 
claim  in  those  lands,  to  Gadell,  the  king  of  South  Wales ;  so  that 
Howel  was  forced  to  relinquish  his  right  to  them,  and  to  fix  the 
boundary  of  his  country  at  Grickhowel,^  because  it  was  there  that 
the  boundary  stones  were  raised,  and  here  it  was  that  he  constructed 
a  town  and  castle,  calling  the  place  Gerrig  Howel ;  which  town  is 
now  considered  to  be  in  Brecknock.  Morgan,  the  son  of  Howel, 
succeeded  him. 

Morgan,  the  son  of  Howel,^  was  a  mighty,  brave-hearted  king ; 
and  great,  beyond  measure,  in  generosity,  justice,  and  mercy ;  for 
which  he  was  designated,  a  second  Arthur.  He  married  Olwen,* 
the  daughter  of  Rhodri  the  Great ;  and  succeeded  in  his  dispute 


northern  boundary  of  that  county.  Mr.  Owen's  (Dr.  0.  Pughe)  map,  how- 
•Ter,  18  a  creditable  performance,  and  useful  to  the  historian.  See  Price's  des- 
cription of  this  district ;  -Hanes  Cymru,  p.  451. 

1  Eoaa,— or  Ewyas,  an  ancient  territory,  now  in  Herefordshire,  and  adjoin- 
ing Ystnd  Yw. 

*  Ckbrio  Howel,  or,  The  Stones  •/  Howel,  (the  name  by  which  CaicKHowBLy 
in  Brecknockshire,  is  called  in  Owen's  Map  of  Ancient  Divisions,  as  well  as 
bj  the  country  generally,  in  Webh  colloquy,)  is  a  designation  that  conveys 
its  own  satisfactory  definition,  and  affords  a  local  corroboration  of  the  man- 
ner in  which  the  territorial  contest  between  Howel  and  the  Lords  of  Breck- 
nock was  then  determined  ;  although  that  settlement  was  soon  after  rescinded. 

I  The  parentage  of  this  prince  is  here  erroneously  given  ;  for  in  the  Coy- 
church  Genealogy,  (Williams's  Monm.  pp.  704,  and  Appendix,  69)  he  suc- 
ceeds Owen,  the  son  of  Howel ;  and,  in  an  important  MS.  historical  pedigree, 
said  to  have  been  transcribed  from  Icuan  Deulwyn's  book,  (sec  note  p.  882) 
he  is  called  Morgan,  the  son  of  Owen,  the  son  of  Howel,  a  testimony  that  is 
confirmed  by  several  other  genealogies.  Owen,  Lord  of  Glamorgan,  is  re- 
corded by  Caradoc  before  Morgan,  (My v.  Arch.  II.  p.  488)  although  omitted 
here ;  but,  as  his  father,  Howel,  died  at  a  very  advanced  age,  (p.  484)  it  is  pro- 
bable that  he  survived  his  son  ;  who,  for  some  years,  might  have  governed  as 
his  Regent. — However,  as  he  did  not,  perhaps,  exercise  power  in  the  due 
order  of  succession,  he  was  not  included,  by  some  hbtorians,  among  the  ruling 
aoYereigns.  Blegywryd,  Archdeacon  of  Llandaff,  who  so  efficiently  assisted  Ho- 
wel theGood  in  framing  his  new  Code  of  Welsh  Laws,(circ.  ann.  926)  is  named, 
by  Caradoc.  (p.  685)  as  the  son  of  Owen,  and  brother  of  Morgan,  King  of  Gla- 
morgan.— Another  brother— Idwallon — is  also  similarly  described,  (p.  494.) 
In  the  Liber  Landavensis,  Morgan  the  Aged  b  mentioned  as  the  son  of  Owen. 
The  error  just  committed,  as  to  Morgan's  parentage,  is,  it  will  be  observed, 
almost  inunediately  repeated  with  respect  to  that  of  Blegywryd. 

*  The  wife  of  Morgan  is,  by  historians  and  genealogists,  generally  named 
JSÍen^  the  daughter  of  Rhodri  the  Great» 


374  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

with  Howel  the  Good,  through  the  interposition  of  Edgar,  king' 
of  London,  the  Bishop  of  Llandaff,  and  the  Bishop  of  Saint 
David^sJ  Howel,  however,  renewed,  after  that,  his  claim  to  those 
territories,  [i.  e.  Ystrad  Yw  and  Ewyas]  and  war  ensued  :  but 
Blegywryd,  the  son  of  Howel,  and  brother  of  Morgan,  solicited 
again  the  arbitration  of  Edgar  and  the  two  Bishops,  between  Mor- 
gan, and  Hywel  the  Good,  and  obtained  it.  Edgar  selected 
twelve  wise-men  of  the  country  to  adjudicate  the  case  ;  in  accor- 
dance with  the  law  of  Morgan  Mwynfawr ; — ^that  is,  twelve  men 
from  Deheubarth,  the  country  of  Howel,  and  twelve  from  Gla- 
morgan,2  the  country  of  Morgan  ; — ^presiding,  himself,  in  council 
at  their  deliberation.  The  award,  publicly  announced,  was, — that 
Morgan  and  his  country's  claim  had  been  fully  established  in  jus- 
tice to  Ystrad  Yw  and  Ewyas,  which  were  restored  accordingly; 
excommunication  against  any  who  should  oppose  that  decision, 
being  simultaneously  proclaimed  at  the  altar  of  Teilo  at  Uandaff, 
where  the  record  of  that  righteous  decision  is  still  to  be  seen:— and 
thus  it  was  that  peace  was  restored  to  the  country.  Moi^gan  had 
a  palace  at  Gardifi*,  where  formerly  stood  the  court  of  the  Roman 
general,  Aulus  Didius  ;^  but  that  palace  was  reduced  to  heaps  of 


1  The  arbitration  here  attributed  to  Edgar,  between  Howel  the  Good  and 
Morgan  the  Aged,  involves  a  palpable  anachronism  ; — for  Edgar  was  a  mere 
child  when  Howel  died,  in  948.  See  Lib.  Land.  p.  613,  where  the  Editor, 
in  pointing  out  the  error,  gives  an  explanatory  note. 

But  although  Howel  the  Good  could  not  hare  been  concerned  in  the  aboTe 
seizure,  it  is  equally  certain  that  his  turbulent  son,  Owen,  committed  the 
aggression  ;  for  Caradoc,  together  with  other  concurrent  authorities,  exprev- 
ly  attributes  the  wrong  to  him  in  tlie  year  958  ; — My  v.  Arch.  II.  p.  490)  and, 
as  expressed  in  the  note  just  alluded  to, — **  The  arbitration  made  by  Edgar 
was,  most  probably,  one  of  his  first  acts,  after  he  commenced  his  reign,  in  the 
year  959."  The  expression  "  er  yn  oes  oesoedd  "  (through  all  ages  J  used  by 
Caradoc  to  characterise  the  right  of  the  princes  of  Glamorgan  to  the  onjiutly 
seized  territories,  argues  great  antiquity  of  claim. 

'Here  Morgan wg,  or  Glamorgan,  is  correctly  mentioned  as  a  dominkn 
quite  distinct  fì-om  that  of  Deheubarth,  or  South  Wales. 

•Opinions  are  divided  with  regard  to  the  etymology  of  Caerdydd,-»Aiiglk^ 
Cardiff.  Our  text  here,  and,  I  think,  justly,  derives  the  Welsh  name  from 
Didius  (Aulus  Didius)  the  Roman  general,  who  commanded  in  Britain  from 
A.  D.  63,  to  about  67  ;  who  was  strenuously  opposed  by  the  Silnivs ;  and 
who,  according  to  this  genealogy,  which  is  supported  by  other  Welsh  records, 
as  well  as  by  strong  probability,  built  a  fortress  on  the  Taff,  where,  from  its 
contiguity  to  the  sea,  he  would  have  been  much  less  exposed  to  the  onsets  of 
that  warlike  people,  than  had  he  selected  a  more  inland  poaitioii* — However 


THE   KINGS   OF   GLAMORGAN.  375 

ruins  by  the  Saxons,  in  the  time  of  Cadwalader  the  Blessed.  He 
had,  also,  a  royal  residence  at  Margara,  and  another  at  Brigan,i 
where  he  usually  held  his  national  and  juridical  courts.  He  lived 
to  the  age  of  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  years  ;2  being,  conse- 
quently, called  Morgan  the  Aged. 

short  the  occupation  of  the  place  might  have  been,  his  name,  as  the  founder, 
become,  according  to  frequent  usage,  attached  to  it ;  Batostabiue,  another  local 
designation,  evidently  foimed  from  the  British  expression — Rhath  Tàf,  (The 
Taff  moorland)  and  Rhath,  Anglicè  Roath,  a  contiguous  parish,  still  partakes 
of  that  appellation  ;  hence  we  may  fairly  infer  that  it  was  a  distinct  place 
from  Caerdydd.  In  the  adoption  of  British  names,  the  Romans  latinized  them 
with  increments,  such  as  Cassivellaunus,  from  Caswallawn,  Lucarum  and 
Lucarium,  from  Llychwr ;  (implying  both  a  lake  and  fenny  ground,)  Ni- 
dum,  from  Nedd  ;  Arc.  On  the  contrary,  the  Britons  rejected  the  final  syl- 
lable of  Latin  names  and  words  ;  as  Iwl,  from  Julius  ;  Aleg,  from  Alectus  ; 
Sevyr  from  Severus ;  môdd,  from  modus ;  gradd,  from  gradus  ;  ysplennydd, 
from  splendidus ; — and  Dydd,  from  Didius,  whence,  Caer-Dydd,  or  the 
fortress  of  Didius. 

Had  Caer-Daf  (pron.  Caer  D&v,  i.  e.  the  fortress  on  the  Taff)  been  the 
original  appellation,  it  would,  in  all  probability,  have  retained  that  form ; 
and  Caerdaff  or  CardaíF,  instead  of  Cardiff,  would  have  been  the  English  ex- 
pression ;  especially  as  the  primitive  see,  Llandâf,  (pron.  Llan-Dav,  i.  e.  the 
church  on  the  Taff)  Anglicè  LandafF,  in  the  immediate  vicinity,  must,  by 
retaining,  in  unaltered  purity,  its  first  name,  have  analogously  tended  to  pre- 
vent any  fixed  adoption  of  such  deviations  as  Caerdydd,  Caerdyf,  and  Cardiff, 
from  Caerdav,  had  the  latter  been  the  original  appellation.  It  is  also  pretty 
certain  tliat  Caerdydd  was,  alicays,  the  name  in  colloquial  use  by  the  sur- 
rounding country.  It  is  with  unfeigned  diffidence  that  I  find  myself  com- 
pelled to  differ,  in  this,  as  well  as  in  a  few  other  cases,  from  the  recorded 
opinions  of  far  superior  scholars  ;  but  my  Bardic  motto  Y  Gwir  yn  erbyn  y 
Byd  (Truth  againbt  the  World)  enjoins  the  expression  of  my  carefully  con- 
sidered and  honestly  entertained  notions  on  historical  subjects,  that  seem  to 
require  fuilher  illustration. 

1  Breigan,  an  old  mansion  in  Llansannor  parish,  Glamorganshire,  is  now  in  a 
state  of  dilapidation ;  but  vestiges  of  an  ancient  castle  are  still  observable 
near  it. 

*  Caradoc,  having  casually  noticed  the  proceedings  of  this  Ruler  for  a  very 
hng  period,  states  that  he  died  in  1001,  at  the  extreme  age  of  129  years,  nor 
have  we  any  reason  to  suspect  that  duration  to  have  been  materially  over- 
rated, for  we  find  him  in  power  in  A.  D.  893,  or  108  years  before  his  demise, 
an  event  that  could  not  have  been  involved  in  distant  obscurity  at  the  time  of 
the  historian,  who  is  stated  by  some  writers  to  have  died  himself,  at  an  ad- 
Tanced  age,  in  1150  ;  his  chronicle  having,  it  should  seem,  been  continued  by 
a  later  hand  to  119G.  This  historian's  account  of  the  death  of  the  hoary  and 
worthy  Prince  here  noticed,  concludes  thus  : — "  Gwedi  gadael  ei  Fraint  yn 
nwylaw  ei  feibion  a'i  w}TÌon,  yn  hir  flynydau  cyn  ei  farw  achaws  ei  henaint 


376  THE  GENEALOGY   OF 

12.  Owen,  the  son  of  Morgan  the  Aged,  was  inyolyed  in  war  bj 
Owen,  the  son  of  Howel  the  Good ;  but  Edgar  marched  an  army 
against  the  latter,  and  compelled  him  to  abide  by  his  and  the  wise- 
men'*s  decision  in  favour  of  Morgan  the  Great.^  Owen,  the  son  of 
Howel,  was  now  excommunicated ;  but,  having  made  restitution 
to  Owen,  the  son  of  Morgan,  he  was  absolved.  This  Owen,  the 
son  of  Morgan,  built  a  church  and  castle  at  Ystrad-Owen,^  where 
he  and  his  wife  were  buried. 

13.  Ithel,  the  son  of  Owen,  was  a  very  valiant  and  potent  king, 
and  lived  mostly  at  his  new  summer-house,  called — Ton  Ithel 
Ddu.^  He  fortified  Cardiff  castle,  where  he  held  his  national  and 
juridical  courts.  He  was  called, — Ithel  Ddu,  (Ithel  the  Dark) 
from  his  very  black  hair  and  beard. 

14.  Gwrgan,  the  son  of  Ithel,  was  a  generous  king,  who  restored, 
in  full  efficacy,  the  laws  of  Morgan  Mwynfawr,  and  Bhys,  the  son 
of  Arthfael,  and  the  country  flourished  greatly  under  his  govern- 
ment. He  was  an  eminent  bard,  and  framed  many  excellent  laws 
and  institutes  for  that  order,  which  are  to  be  seen  in  books  to  this 
very  day.     He  gave  the  plain  called  Gwrgan'*s  Long-meadow/  in 


ac  anallu  ;"  i.  e.  having,  for  long  yearshefore  he  died,  resigned  his  so  veie%iiÿ 
to  his  Sons  and  Grandsons,  on  account  of  his  great  age  and  decrepitude. 

Placing  the  death  of  Morgan  Mwynfawr  in  A.  D.  Ô60,  we  have  an  inters 
vening  period  of  333  years  from  that  time  to  893,  the  year  in  which  Caiadoe 
first  refers  to  Morgan  the  Aged,  as  excercising  sovereign  authoiify :  but 
during  that  long  space  of  time,  we  find  in  the  text  only  nine  saooenioiis ; 
giving  thereby  the  improbable  average  of  37  years  to  each  reign.  The  Coy- 
church  authority,  corroborated  by  leuan  Deulwyn's  pedigree,  (see  Appendix) 
gives,  however,  12  years  reign  within  that  period ;  thus  redudng  the  average 
to  the  admissible  extent  of  27f  years. 

^  It  was  at  this  time  that  the  arbitration  of  Edgar  appears  actually  to  htva 
taken  place. 

2  Ystrad  Owen  ; — a  village  near  Cowbridge.  There  is  a  laige  tanmlni 
within  the  churchyard  of  this  place,  which,  probably,  was  raised,  in  comme- 
moration, over  the  grave  of  Owen  and  his  wife. 

s  This  place,  the  name  of  which  has  been  contracted  to— Ton  Du — is  ntn- 
ated  in  the  parish  of  Llangynwyd,  about  five  miles,  nearly  to  the  north  of 
Bridgend.  It  is  a  respectable  old  residence,  and  still  inhabited.  Ithd  died  in 
994.    (Myv.  Arch.  II.  p.  600.) 

*  This  mountain-plain  extends  nearly  westward,  for  some  mileo^  along  the 
confines  of  Glamorganshire  and  Brecknockshire ;  commencing  about  six  müei 
from  Merthyr  Tydfil.  In  its  south-easterly  direction  it  includes  a  coiMUcn- 
ble  portion  of  Aberdare  parish  ;  and  it  is  still,  under  some  modìfioitíoii^  eon* 


THE  KINGS   OF  GLAHOx.ua.n.  bíì 

Gljn-Bhondda,  to  his  poor  subjects,  and  all  other  Welshmen,  in 
perpetuity,  for  raising  com,  and  breedimg  sheep  and  cattle ;  and 
it  was  from  his  name  that  this  place  was  called  Gwrgan^s  Long- 
meadow.  He  conferred  upon  every  person  in  Glamorgan,  who  did 
not  possess  land,  the  privilege  of  feeding  cattle  and  sheep,  and 
erecting  houses,  as  it  exists  at  this  day.  He  was  called  a  second 
Solomon  for  his  knowledge. 

15.  lestyn,*  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  succeeded  his  father;  but  he 
was  a  very  wicked,  cruel,  and  merciless  king ;  incurring  the  hatred 
of  his  countrymen  and  subjects.  Great  animosity  arose  between 
him  and  Bhys,  the  son  of  Tewdwr,  king  of  Deheubarth ;  and  he 


sidered  as  a  free  common.    Gwrgan  is  celebrated  by  Barda  and  Chroniclers 
as  a  generous  and  patriotic  prince.    He  died  in  1080. 

1  This  untoward  but  brave  prince  has,  from  the  period  of  his  existence  to 
the  present  day,  been  the  object  of  unqualified  censure ; — nor  is  it  here  in- 
tended to  shield  his  grievous  faults ; — still  the  charity  even  of  stem  justice 
requires  that,  while  his  transgressions  appear  so  amply  on  the  records  of  cen- 
turies, the  partially  retrieving  features  of  his  character,  together  with  the 
rebellion  so  unjustly  charged  to  his  conduct,  and  the  exasperating  aggressions 
inflicted,  through  many  reigns,  on  his  paternal  dominion,  should  be  considered. 
When  the  sons  of  Rhodri,  under  the  new  order  of  government,  instituted  by 
their  father,  attained  unopposed  power,  they  not  only  aimed  at  the  extermi- 
nation of  Morgan wg  as  an  independent  state,  but  also  immediately  endeavoured 
to  accomplish  the  extirpation  of  each  other's  authority,  notwithstanding  that 
the  federal  code  framed,  as  if  by  paternal  presentiment,  for  their  regulation, 
so  explicitly  defined  the  distinctive  rights  of  each.  lestyn,  in  favourable 
contrast,  when  debarred,  at  the  death  of  his  father,  from  his  legitimate  right 
of  immediate  succession,  created  no  dangerous  commotion  in  the  country,  in 
vindication  of  his  just  claim  ;  but,  having  asserted  his  hereditary  title,  sub- 
mitted to  his  rejection ;  although,  during  the  thirteen  years  of  its  continuance, 
he  was  perpetually,  and  powerfully,  in  arms  in  support  of  his  grandson's 
claim  to  the  dominion  of  Deheubarth.  It  should  here  be  remarked  that  les- 
tyn's  temporary  exclusion,  although  unnoticed  in  this  record,  is  particularly 
and  satis&ctorily  narrated  by  Caradoc  (Myv.  Arch.  II.  pp.  506,  600)  and 
others.  The  omission  here  may  be  fairly  attibuted  to  an  impression  on  the 
mind  of  the  author,  that  the  intervening  government  of  Howel,  after  Gwr- 
gan's  death,  could  not  be  considered  but  either  as  an  usurpation,  or  a  regency, 
while  lestyn  was  exclusively  engaged  in  warlike  operations. 

This  Prince  has  been  accused  of  tretuon  and  rẃeliion  for  his  war  with  Rhys 
ab  Tewdwr,  Prince  of  Deheubarth,  or  South  Wales, ;  but  the  charge,  upon 
reflection,  appears  quite  unfounded,  for  Morganwg  was  at  no  period  included 
in  the  dominion  of  Deheubarth,  (Han.  Cym.  p.  450 — 522.  Myv.  Arch.  II. 
p.  616,  &c.  &c)  on  the  contrary,  it  has  been  mentioned,  by  Caradoc  and 
other  ancient  writers^  as  an  independent  state,  throughout  the  whole  of  its 


378 


THE   GENEALOGY    OP 


entered  Into  an  unjust  ivar  as:ainst  hi m ;  for  wLîch  objrct  lie  en^^aged 
the  mercenary  aid  of  Sir  Kobcrt  FitzIiaTin>n  ;  with  whom  caniŵ 
twolvo  kuiglits,  twenty-four  esquireSj  aud  tliree  thousand  tueu.    T<i 


hktory.    It  1ms,  also,  liy  swveral  writer»,  boen  iflentified,  although  underi 

progressively  circumscribed  HniitSj  aa  ìÌig  EäsyUwg  of  n^juote  anUqukf ; 
which,  on  soTiie  occiwKms  of  juimînetit  diitigcr,  ^'iive  Wnr-Kings  (CfttUyrti) 
or  Pftrajiiount  Sovoruigns,  to  the  whole  Brittsl»  eunfidemtbn.^^Caractaicos» 
itA  herediinr>^  Prince,  itt  his  celcbtuted  speech  hefore  Claudius,  ui^gcf,  b£ 
that  ver^'  distant  period,  hia  decent  froTn  illustrious  progenitors^  nnd  that  ha 
waa  a  aovcr^igtv  of  many  nations  :  nor  WBa  the  nilo  of  that  liii«i^  tvcr  re- 
duced to  tt  state  of  ijiihordinalion,  until  the  overthrow  of  leatyn ;  wh«ii  it 
pfiâsed  over  to  the  Nommu  Lords* 

Hŵes  Meyrickj  in  hiü  Ìtorgaina  Archaîograpliîa,  wi-ittcn  in  1578^  wy»  thttl 
this  war  ''aprancroFtlieunftatkhlo  dtí&íreof  RiceapTewd^^T,  to  Ju«Ui/swif*, 
and  notj  for  any  title  of  subjcîction,  aa  somci  lately  by  misrejiort  ftffirm^d," 
( p  *  7, ) — A  gftin  y  "As  conce  rning  aiiy  ti  í  Ic  o  f  su  bj  ci;t  ion  du  o  u  jj<  i  -    -mty 

of  M  organ  wgr  to  Debybarth,  I  never  en  we  Jiutbority  for  the  Te^r :  _  owf  ^ 
neither  yet  the  matter  to  be  doubted  or  eitllod  iuto  question,  «ntiil  JntrJy,  that 
well  learned  Master  Humphrey  Lloyd  in  his  *  Breviary  of  BryttJUQe/  by  nait- 
instmetiun,  affirmed, ite/*  { p,  8*)  Fu tbermare,  in  discusbb^ the couÁìdenUioa 
that  **Morganwg  was  included  in  Didieubarth,"  he  convincingly  says,  "Tb« 
contrary  whereof  may  appear  by  the  decree  made  by  Eld  gar.  King  of  Engt*nd, 
betweene  Ilywel  Dda  (sonneof  Cadell  then  Prince  of  Debyborth,)  «nd  Mor- 
gan Hen,  then  LordofMorgmnvg,  for  Istradyw  and  Ens,  which  b  r«^«rt!idbi 
Tilyaw  his  booke  at  Llondaph,  about  tlio  year  of  our  Lord  970  ;  for  if  Moi^ 
gonwg  had  been  Suliject  to  Dehybarth,  in  vaine  had  they  the»  contended 
aeeing  the  question  was(as  l>y  that  Decree  may  be  seene)  Whether  tiiüsw  twa 
countiycs  were  part  of  Morganwg  or  Dehybarth?"  *'Alsoe  ia  Wales  w« 
Tcpnted  five  Kingly  or  Princely  generations,  which  the  Dryttai»  t^nn  *Pum|> 
hrenynllwith  Kymry  ;*  among  whom  Jnstyn  vap  Gwr^jau  iftftie  one  in  ÎUr- 
ganwg,  an  Rhys  vap  Tewdyr  in  Dehybarth,  &c/'  [\>,  9.) 

Humphrey  Llwyd,  liowever,  Appears  merely  to  have  reiterated  tiie  cHaift 
ùf  Giraldus  Cambrensis,  for  ho  almost  literally  translates  his  word**  GM* 
dns's  chanu-'tor,  as  an  cnidite  Welsh  historian,  )taa  never  Wi^n  highly  apprwi- 
ttted^  even  by  his  wannest  friends;  but  his  aíwiertìony  vi-ith  re^ril  to  thŵ 
prtîcnded  miborilmation  and  ftíil ty  due  from  McirgniiWg  to  Dehcuharth»  indc* 
pPTidently  of  the  cogent  rcasoTJs  already  adduced,  is  peculiarly  lipt^n  to  a  íoä- 
picion  of  biassed  perversion,  from  the  circamstatiee,  thiit  he  was  the  GmC' 
grandscm  of  Rhys  ah  Tewdwr,  sovereign  of  the  latter  prìneipAlÌty,  who  wv 
vanqiiblied  in  his  war  with  lestyn,  his  ifídejmndmU  enemy.  The  f^ct  that 
Ithys*9  own  euhregnlif  Einion  and  Cedrych,  eontributed  mainly  ta  hẃ  ortr^ 
throw,  hnt  ill  upholds  his  citaracter  as  a  popular  and  ju-^t  prinee.  It  w*i  not, 
however,  lestyn's  policy  to  refuse  Huch  opportune  aid,  GinUdujuS  Grand- 
&t]ier  married  Newt,  a  daughter  of  Rhys  ah  Trwdwr»  whom  Mr,  Vocia 
describes  as  having  been  previously  **the  beautiful  mwtrcss  of  Henry  L** 
To  this  nnuTÌa^  Giialduaowod  not  only  <iö  hia  lV>iM  hlood,  (forldvptturtial 


THE   KINGS   OF   GLAMORGAN.  379 

hi8  support  came,  also,  Eînîon,  the  son  of  Oollwyn,  Lord  of  Dimetia 
and  Cardigan,  with  a  thousand  men  more  ;  and  likewise  Cedrych, 
the  son  of  Gwaethvoed,  Lord  of  Cardigan,   with  an  additional 


aneeston  were  Normans)  but  also  his  inveterately  unjust  hostility  to  the 
princes  of  Glamorgan. 

Bat,  independent  of  any  other  provocation,  the  appalling  devastations  in- 
flicted by  the  princes  of  Deheubarth  on  Glamorgan,  from  Rhodri's  sons  to 
Rhys  ab  Tewdwr,  (which,  being  detailed  by  credible  historians,  whether 
Welsh  or  English,  need  hot  be  recapitulated  here,  further  than  in  allusion,) 
present  ample  causes  of  justification  for  lestyn's  protective  retaliation. 

From  several  allusions  to  him  in  old  MSS.,  lestyn  appears  to  have  been  a 
man  of  learning  himself,  and  a  patron  of  literature.  We  find  it  recorded, 
also,  by  Caradoc,  (My v.  Arch.  II.  p.  522)  that,  notwithstanding  his  incessant 
wan,  he  paid  considerable  attention  to  the  internal  improvements  of  his 
eountry,  having  rebuilt  the  casties  of  Kenffig  and  Boverton,  and  constructed^ 
altogether,  the  town  and  castle  of  Cardiff. 

Some  intricacies  occur  in  Caradoc's  account  of  lestyn  and  his  family,  that 
an  not  only  irreconcilable  with  probability,  but  even  with  poênbility^  unless 
explained  by  circumstances  upon  which  he  is  silent.  That  prince  is  said,  in 
A.  D.  9d4,  to  have  married  Denis,  the  daughter  of  fileddyn  ab  C3mfyn, 
prince  of  Powys.  Now  Bleddyn  did  not  assume  the  government  of  that 
Prineipalit}',  until  1062  ;  and,  as  he  fell  in  1072,  without  any  extraordinary 
age  being  attributed  to  him,  we  can  scarcely  suppose  him  to  have  been  even 
bom  at  the  asserted  period  of  his  daughter's  marriage  ;  and,  hence,  the  obser- 
vation— that  Denis  was  his  daughter,  by  his  fir^t  wife,  as  stated  in  another 
section  of  this  volume,  does  not  obviate  the  difficulty.  In  1031,  Rhydderch, 
the  eldest  son  of  lestyn,  fell  in  battle  ;  and  in  the  same  year,  Caradoc,  another 
son,  fell ;  but  I  have  never  seen  this  Caradoc  included  among  the  different 
namee  transmitted  of  Denis's  children ;  hence  the  inference  that  he  was  a 
natural  son  is  admissible.  It  is  stated  in  the  same  year,  that  lestyn,  after 
the  death  of  Denis,  the  daughter  of  Bleddyn  ab  C3mfyn,  hia  first  wife,  (My v. 
Arch.  II.  p.  307)  made  proposals  for  a  second  mafriage,  which,  however,  were 
rejected  on  account  of  his  advanced  age.  Still  we  have  another  Caradoc,  the 
eon  of  lestyn,  appointed,  in  1090,  under  Fitzhamon's  allotments,  as  regulus 
of  the  territory  between  the  rivers  Neath  and  Avan.  In  the  previous  year, 
leetyn  stipulates  with  Einion  ab  Collwyn,  as  one  of  that  chieftain's  conditions 
for  his  aid  against  Rhys,  to  give  him  his  daughter  in  marriage.  This  stipula- 
tion, although  violated  by  lestyn,  was  afterwards  enforced  by  Fitzliamon ; 
and  several  children  issued  from  the  union;  which  could  not  pouibly  have 
occurred,  had  that  princess  been  the  daughter  of  Denis,  recorded  to  have  been 
dead  sixty  years  previously.  Supposing,  however,  tliat  Denis  was  Bleddyn 
ábCynfyn's  ddest  sister,  (a  consideration  also  that  involves  some  difficulty) 
instead  of  his  daughter,  the  perplexity  with  regard  to  that  prince  vanishes  ; 
and  lestyn's  second  marriage  with  Angharad,  the  daughter  of  Elystan  Glod- 
jydd,  as  stated  by  most  Welsh  historians  of  note,  except  Caradoc,  fully  ex- 
plains  tiie  other  circumstances. 

3  G 


380  THE   GENEALOGY   OF 

thousand  :>  but  after  the  departure  of  the  Normans,  contention 
sprang  up  between  lestyn,  Einion,  and  Oedrych;  whereupon 
the  two  latter  went  after  the  mercenaries,  and,  having  related  the 
injustice  of  lestyn's  conduct,  invited  them  back  to  Glamorgan  ;  a 
country,  they  said,  that  might  be  easily  won  from  lestyn,  who 
was  so  ill  beloved  there,  that  a  large  portion  of  the  Welsh  were 
quite  hostile  to  him.  They  expatiated,  also,  on  the  fertility  of 
Glamorgan, — being  so  rich  in  com,  pasturage,  and  all  produce  be- 
neficial to  man  and  beast.  Sir  Robert  and  his  men  heard  all  this 
gladly  ;2  and  returning,  expostulated  with  lestyn  on  his  conduct ; 
but  he  behaved  with  great  arrogance  and  scornful  pride  towards 
them ;  so  the  contention  ended  in  war ;  and  a  severe  conflict  tock 
place  adjacent  to  Cardiff,  on  the  Great  Heath,*  where  lestyn  was 
vanquished.  But  the  Normans  so  marshalled  their  combined  army, 
that  Gedrych  was  placed  foremost  in  battle,  until  more  than  hiJf 
of  his  men  fell ;  consequently.  Sir  Robert  found  himself  at  the 
head  of  a  more  numerous  force  than  the  remaining  troops  of  Einion, 
Cedrych,  and  other  Cambrian  chiefs  on  their  side  ;  so  he  got  the 
upper  hand  of  the  country,  and  thus  became  enabled  to  select  as  he 
pleased.  He,  therefore,  appropriated  to  himself  and  retainers,  the 
rich  vale ;  but  the  lands  allotted  to  Einion,  Cedrych,  and  their 
adherents,  were  mostly  the  hilly  districts.  The  portion  Sir  Robert 
reserved  to  himself,  consisted  of  Iestyn'*s  rights ;  being  the  Supre- 
macy and  Royal  Prerogatives  of  Glamorgan,  with  the  castles,  es- 
tates, and  just  claims  appertaining  thereto ; — that  is  to  say, — the 
Castle  of  Cardiff  and  its  attached  lands;  the  Castle  of  Kenffig  and 
its  estate ;  the  royalties  of  Tir  larll^  (EarPs  Land)  and  Glyn- 

1  Sir  Edward  Mansel  says,  that  Cedrych's  contingent  amonnted  to  Iw 
thousand,  but  states  the  total  of  lestyn's  own  force  at  only  *' three  hnndied 
or  a  few  more,  for  the  lords  and  knights  of  his  own  country  had  leiuBed  him 
much  aid." 

s  Rees  Meyrick,  in  exposing  the  feigned  readiness  of  the  Normans  to  xvtimi, 
after  the  overthrow  of  Rhys  ab  Tewdwr,  evidently  shows  that,  from  the  fiisi 
foot  they  set  in  the  country,  they  had  resolved  on  its  subjugation,  and  the 
partition  of  its  fertile  districts  among  themselves  ;  allotting,  aoootding  to  the 
good  Welsh  adage,  ^'Rhan  y  gwas  o  gig  y  iar,"  (the  menial's  sban  of  the 
dainty  chicken)  to  the  more  treacherous  mercenaries,  Einion  and  Cediycb, 
while  the  pittances  doled  out  to  lestyn's  sons  were  still  more  insignifietni. 

*  Mynydd  Bychan,  or  the  Great  Heath,  near  Cardiff,  which,  nntil  ktelyt 
was  a  large  uninclosed  common. 

^  This  Lordship  was,  according  to  several  unpuhlished  Welsh  nooẁ, 
called  Tir  larll,  or  Earl's  Land,  from  William,  Earl  of  Gloncesttf,  the  thîi^ 


THE   KINGS  OF  GLAMORGAN.  381 

Bhondda,  with  the  manor  of  Oowbridge  and  its  liberties  ;  also  the 
manors  of  Boverton  and  Lantwit  Major,  with  their  liberties :  the 
two  latter  Manor-towns  being  appropriated  for  the  com  and  dairy 
of  the  splendid  mansion  that  he  had  at  Boverton,  where  he  usually 
resided  and  held  his  courts  in  summer. 

This  Sir  Bobert,  being  one  day  engaged  in  a  hunting  party,  at 
the  town  of  Boverton,  fell  from  his  horse,  and  fractured  his  leg. 
The  horse  having  run  away,  he  was  thus  left,  far  from  his  friends, 
without  any  one  to  assist  him.  In  a  short  time  he  saw  a  man  called 
Qu.?*  coming  that  way,  being  girt  with  a  sword  and  other  wea- 
pons. Sir  Brobert  had  seized  his  lands,  and,  therefore,  expected 
nothing  less  than  death  at  the  hands  of  this  armed  man ;  who,  on 
the  contrary,  raised  him  up,  and  carried  him  to  a  little  cottage, 
like  a  hermitage,  in  the  seclusion  of  a  wood,  where  he  set  the  bone, 
and  then  sent  for  his  attendants  to  guard  him  in  security,  until  his  leg 
flhoold  become  well.    On  his  recovery.  Sir  Robert  wished  to  bestow 

great  gifts  on ^but  he  would  not  accept  them,  saying, — "Thou 

<lidst  take  away  my  property,  together  with  the  lives  of  my  wife,  my 
children,  and  of  most  of  my  relations,  and  all  thy  wealth  could  make 
no  recompense  to  me  for  them  :  but  know — that  I  would  not  reta- 
liate on  a  disabled  enemy.  Betum  home  in  security ;  but  bear  in 
mind,  that  I  and  my  countrymen  want  only  the  power  to  avenge 
ourselves  on  all  the  aliens  who  have  causelessly  dispossessed  us  of 
our  property ;  and  that  we  never  did  to  thee  tlio  least  injury .*^^  Sir 


Lord  of  Glamorgan,  from  its  Norman  conquest,  who  restored  the  Bardic 
Chair,  that  had  previously  been  removed  there  from  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  but 
whkh  had,  in  periods  of  turbulence,  quite  fallen  into  disuse.  Were  such 
proofii  here  requisite,  infinite  allusions  to  this  chair  could  be  adduced  from 
the  Bards,  through  many  centuries. 

*  This  contracted  form  of  quiere  appears  in  the  Welsh  text,  without  the 
note  of  interrogation  here  affixed.  The  suggested  inquiry  is  evidently  directed 
to  the  omitted  name  of  the  personage  noticed  ;  for  which,  perhaps,  from  some 
defect  of  MS.  authority,  a  prior  transcriber  had  only  left  a  blank  space. 

*  In  whatever  point  of  view,  as  to  historical  fact,  the  apparently  romantic 
anecdote  here  introduced,  may  be  considered,  it  faithfully  depictures  the  rapid 
results  of  revolt,  in  its  portraiture  of  the  sad  bereavements,  destitution,  and 
wretched  vassalage  that  immediately  befell  all  grades  of  lestyn's  subjects, 
after  his  overthrow.  While  the  restless  mind  of  this  prince  proved  inimical 
to  public  repose,  his  unrestrained  passions  naturally  created  feelings  of  deep- 
rooted  revenge  in  the  breasts  of  some  of  his  powerful  subjects,  who,  conse- 
quently, swerved  from  their  fealty  to  him,  in  the  day  of  his  need.  But  the 
^irit,  whether  vindictive  or  ambitious,  that  would  aim  at  the  total  subversion 


382  THE  GENEALOGY  OP 

Robert  returned  liome  very  sorrowful,  called  his  knights  together, 
and  ordered  restitution  of  property  to  be  made  to  all  who  had  not 
personally  engaged  in  the  war  against  him ;  emancipating,  like- 
wise, the  country  from  the  bondage  imposed  upon  it.  From  that 
time  out,  he  never  enjoyed  health ;  but  died,  at  last,  of  insanity 
and  raving  madness.^  In  his  time  King  Henry  I.  took  to  him- 
self Nest,  the  daughter  of  Rhys,  the  son  of  Tewdwr,  as  a  feigned 
wife,  and  lived  with  her  at  Cardiff  Castle  ;  inhabiting  a  chamber 
in  the  Lieut's  Tower,  which  kings  always  occupied  when  residing  in 
that  town. 

This  king  had  a  son  by  Nest,  called  Kobert,  who  was  brought 
up  with  the  daughter  of  Sir  Robert,  called  Mabiha ;  and,  when 
they  became  of  age,  they  were  married ;  and  the  king  created  him 
Earl  of  Gloucester,  his  wife  being  Sir  Robertas  only  child  and 
heiress.  After  his  father-in-law's  death,  this  Earl  Robert  became 
Prince  or  Lord  of  Glamorgan,^  in  right  of  his  wife.  He  was  a  most 
redoubtable  warrior,  being  esteemed  more  valiant  than  any  of  his 
contemporaries.  He  sided  with  the  Empress  Matilda  against  the 
Eang  ;^  and  when  that  monarch  was  taken  prisoner,  he  was  ex- 
changed for  him.  Many  good  laws  were  enacted  in  his  time  for 
the  benefit  of  the  country;  their  ancient  rights  were  restored 
to  the  inhabitants  of  Glamorgan,  and  extensive  lands  in  the  vale 
were  inclosed.  This  Robert,  being  bom  a  Welshman,  was  greatly 
beloved  throughout  the  country ;  and  he  repaired  much  of  the  in- 
juries that  had  resulted  from  the  wars  of  lestyn.  He  had  one  son, 
named  WiUiam,  who  inherited  the  Lordship. 

of  an  old  government,  rather  than  the  constitutional  correction  of  abusei»  will 
ultimately  reap  of  the  devastating  whirlwmd, — the  sure  result  of  **  sowing  to 
the  tempest."  The  progressive  reforms  so  indispensably  necessary  to  the  m« 
stitutions  of  any  country,  should,  with  a  view  to  permanency,  be  the  fruits  of 
time  and  cool  deliberation  ; — not  the  crude  produce  of  popular  excitemenl, 
that,  like  hastily  harvested  hay,  may  be  accumulated  to  conflagration. 

Man  is  capable  of  acquiring  a  momentum  quite  at  variance  with  his  own 
reason. — Allured  by  the  aspect  of  a  subjacent  plain,  he  may  so  rapidly  nuk 
down  to  it,  from  his  less  enviable  acclivity,  as  to  acquire  an  impetuosity  ftr 
beyond  his  utmost  power  of  restraint ;  until,  being  involuntarily  urged  on  by 
it,  he  plunges  into  the  torrent  of  a  verging  river,  and  is  swept  onwardi^  in  tht 
wild  stream,  to  destruction. 

^  He  was  wounded  at  the  seige  of  Falaise,  in  Normandy,  and  died  in  1107." 
See  Williams's  Monm.  Ap.  p.  76. 

>  For  lists  of  Lord  Marchers  and  Lords  of  Glamoi^gan,  see  Williams's  Mon- 
mouthshire, XXXIX.  Appendix.  *  King  Stephen* 


THE   KINGS   OF    GLAMORGAN.  383 

William,  the  son  of  Bobert,  Lord  of  Glamorgan  and  Earl  of 
Gloucester,  was  a  very  quiet,  peaceable  chieftain.  He  had  two 
daughters, — Amicia  and  Isabella; — the  latter  of  whom  married 
John,  King  of  England,  fourth  son  of  Henry  II.  Eling  of  London, 
and,  in  right  of  his  wife,  Lord  of  Glamorgan.  Amicia  married 
Gilbert  Earl  of  Clare,  who,  through  his  wife's  claim,  was  Lord  of 
Glamorgan,  conjointly  with  King  John.  Gilbert  and  Amicia  had 
a  son,  named  Gilbert  Earl  of  Clare  and  Gloucester,  aud  Lord  of 
Glamorgan,  conjointly  with  the  King,  who,  for  himself  and  all  suc- 
ceeding monarchs,  transferred  to  him  the  royal  moiety  of  this  pro- 
perty and  supremacy ;  a  proceeding  that  introduced  to  the  country 
the  forms  of  English  laws.  This  Gilbert  married  Isabella,  the 
daughter  of  Richard  Marshal,  Earl  of  Pembroke ;  and  they  had  a 
son,  called  Richard. 

Richard,  Earl  of  Clare  and  Gloucester,  and  Lord  of  all  Glamor- 
gan^ was  bom  at  Boverton.  He  was  a  very  heroic  man,  and  con- 
ferred great  benefits  on  the  country.  He  had  a  son,  called  Gilbert, 
who  succeeded  him. 

Gilbert,  Earl  of  Clare  and  Gloucester,  and  Lord  of  Glamorgan, 
bad  a  son  named  Gilbert. 

Gilbert,  Earl  of  Clare  and  Gloucester,  and  Lord  of  Glamorgan, 
was  a  yery  generous  man  to  Glamorgan.  He  built  many  houses 
for  the  poor ;  gave  them  allotments  of  ground  for  gardens  and 
orchards ;  and  brought  men  from  Normandy  to  instruct  them  in 
agriculture.  He  had  a  son,  named  Gilbert,  and  a  daughter,  called 
Eleanor. 

Gilbert,  Earl  of  Clare  and  Gloucester,  and  Lord  of  Glamorgan, 
was  slain  in  the  great  battle  between  Edward  II.  and  his  Saxons, 
and  Robert  Bruce  and  his  Scots ;  where  thirty  thousand  Scots  be- 
came victorious  over  a  hundred  thousand  Saxons.  This  battle  took 
place  at  Bannock-Kingsborough.  Gilbert,  not  being  married,  left 
no  lineal  heir,  so  that  his  sister,  Eleanor,  became  possessed  of  the 
Lordship,  and  the  Earldom  of  Gloucester,  after  him. 

Eleanor,  sister  and  heiress  of  Lord  Gilbert,  married  Hugh.* 


*  The  Welsh  transcript  breaks  off  abruptly  here,  before  the  promised  con- 
dnnon. 


THE  KINGS  OF  GLYWYSYG/ 

THAT  IS,  OF  THE  COUNTRY  NOW  CALLED  THE  CANTRED  OF  WENT- 

LOOG,  LYING  BETWEEN  THE  RIVER  USK,  ON  THE  SIDE  OF 

GWENT,  AND  THE  RIVER  ELERCH,2  OTHERWISE  THE 

GREATER  RUMNEY,  ON  THE  SIDE  OF 

KIBOR,  IN  GLAMORGAN. 

First,  after  the  Britons  had  regained  their  crown  under  the 
protection  of  Owen  Finddu,  (the  black-lipped)  the  son  of  Maxi- 
mus,  Sovereign  Elect,*  Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  Gadell 
the  Elder,  king  of  Teyrnllwg,  (the  Vale  Royal  of  Cheshire)  ob- 
tained royal  sway  over  the  cantred  of  Wentloog,  within  the  limits 
above  specified ;  and  he  called  this  country  Glywysyg,^  after  his 
own  name,  having  the  seat  of  government  at  GaerUeon  upon  Usk. 

The  second  was  Gwynlliw  the  Warrior,  who  held  hia  court  at 
Gaerfule,^  where  he  built  the  church  of  Gwynlliw,  as  it  is  called  at 

I  Extracted  from  the  Genealogical  account  of  the  AnceBtors  of  lestyn  ap 
GwTgan,  in  a  MS.  in  the  possession  of  Watkin  Giles  of  Langan.    (E.  W.) 

3  Afon  Elerchy  (written  also  Eleirch)  a  river  that  separates  Glamorgan  from 
Monmouthshire,  is  about  two  miles  east  of  Cardiff.  The  literal  English  tnns- 
lation  of  the  Welsh  name  is — Sioan^rwer. 

s  The  British  term  Qwledig^  which,  when  attached  to  proper  names,  become! 
WiediQy  is  a  word  of  difficult  translation.  It  has  been  varioualy  rendered^ 
Patrician^  Patriot^  Boyal,  Sovereign^  Sçc. ;  probably  from  the  paríiaBiÿ  differ» 
ent  positions  of  the  several  persons  to  whom  it  is  applied  in  ancient  Britiaii 
records.  It  is  evidently  derived  from  Gwlady  (Patria.)  I  have  given  the 
expression,  Satjereign  Electy  as,  seemingly,  the  most  suitable  transktioa ; 
having  observed  that  some  of  the  persons  distinguished  by  the  said  term,  i^ 
pear  to  have  been  raised  to  Federal  Supremacy,  by  the  voice  oonventkxDal  of 
the  country,  on  occasions  of  peculiar  emergency.  This  suggestion  may  indooe 
inquiries  tending  to  a  more  conclusive  opinion. 

^The  erudite  Carte,  whose  indefatigable  research,  guided  by  sapericff 
judgment,  led  him  to  the  consideration  of  ancient  British  documents  and 
authorities,  as  the  most  probable  sources  of  information,  appertaining  to  the 
early  history  of  this  Island,  gives,  in  noticing  this  small  principality  of  Glywy- 
syg,  the  following  correct  accoimt  of  it ; — 

*^  Glewysig,  a  country  between  the  river  Uske  and  Rumney  in  Monmooth- 
shire,  was  so  called  from  Glewisus  (Glywys)  who  was  prince  of  it,  and  ftther 
of  St.  Gundleus,  or  Gunly  w,  (Gwynlliw.)" 

A  It  is  evident,  from  the  text,  that  Caerfvle  (Castrum  Buleum)  was  oontîgu- 
ouB  to  Gwynlliw's  church,  (St.  WooUos)  Newport,  Monmouthahire.  The  an- 
cient encampment  hard  by,  still  called  **  Y  Gaer,*'  within  which  the  reaidencc 


THE   KINOS   OP   GLYWYSYG.  385 

this  day.  Saint  Gadocus  of  Llancarvan,  was  a  son  of  Gwynlliw, 
but  he  would  not  accept  the  sovereignty,  choosing  rather  to  lead 
the  life  of  a  recluse  in  the  church  which  he  had  founded  at  Llan- 
carvan  :  hence,  he  gave  the  kingdom  of  Grlywysyg  to  his  friend  and 
kinsman,  Morgan  of  Glamorgan,  called  Morgan  Mwynfawr,  who 
was  the  paramount  Sovereign  of  the  whole  of  Glamorgan,  com- 
prising the  country  from  the  river  Usk,  on  the  borders  of  Gwent, 
to  the  river  Tawy,  which  separates  it  from  Gower  and  the  Lord- 
ship of  Bheged.  This  Morgan  thus  became  the  third  king  of 
Glywysyg,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  namely, — 

Ithel  the  son  of  Morgan,  the  fourth  king,  who  bestowed  honour- 
able gifts,  in  lands,  and  worldly  goods,  such  as  gold,  silver,  and 
jewels,  on  the  churches  and  cloisters  of  saints. 

Bhodri,  the  son  of  Ithel,  the  son  of  king  Morgan,  was  the  fifth 
king  of  Glywysyg  ;  and  he  bestowed  many  gifts  on  God  and  the 
saints  for  ever. 

Meyryg,  the  son  of  Bhodri,  the  son  of  Ithel,  the  son  of  Morgan 
Mwynfawr,  was  the  sixth  king  of  Glywysyg.  He  built  a  castle  at 
Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  and  another  at  a  place  called  Meigen  cil 
Ceincoed,  near  the  river  Bumney.  He  was  a  man  of  great  cruelty, 
and  was  killed  by  the  men  of  Glamorgan,  who  threw  him  head- 
long from  a  high  cliff  into  the  sea,  for  an  attempt  to  violate  the 
daughter  of  a  very  worthy  nobleman. 

Bhys,'  the  son  of  Bhodri,  the  son  of  Ithel,  was  the  seventh  king 
of  Glywysyg.  He  built  many  churches  in  his  country,  and  slew 
great  numbers  of  the  Saxons  (who  were,  in  number,  nine  to  every 


of  Thomas  Powell,  Esq.  stands,  presents  considerable  remains  of  this  fortified 
station  ;  and  it  is  also  probable,  that  tlie  adjacent  locality  now  called  Court" 
^Bda^  where  Sir  Charles  Morgan,  of  Tredegar,  holds  his  important  cattle 
ahow,  annually,  derives  its  name,  also,  from  the  earlier  BriUsh  Caerjvle. 

*  Asser  Menevensis,  in  the  tenth  century,  mentions  Glywysyg,  and  states 
that  it  had  a  king  named  Rhys.  (Ann.  Aelf.  p.  49.)  It  is  also  noticed  in  the 
Uber  Landavensis,  p.  879. 

Golyddan,  a  Welsh  bard  of  the  seventh  century,  says ; 

"  Na  chryned  Dyfed  na  Gly wyseg." 

Let  neither  Dy ved  nor  Glywysyg  tremble. 

The  bard  here  names  the  two  districts  bordering  the  western  and  eastern 
eonfines  of  Morganwg,  as  it  extended  in  his  day. 

Nennius,  in  alluding  to  the  wildly  romantic  search  said  to  have  been  insti- 
tuted by  King  Vortigem,  for  a  boy  without  a  father,  says,  '<  Venerunt  ad 


386  THE  KINGS  OF   GLYWYSYG. 

one  of  his  meü)  on  the  banks  of  Rumney  river,  where  they  had 
landed ;  which  place  is,  to  this  day,  distinguishable  by  the  strong 
entrenchments  that  surround  it.  He  suddenly  disappeared,  no  one 
knowing  whither  he  was  gone;  and,  leaving  no  son,  after  the 
three  years  of  hiw  had  expired,  his  kingdom  was  given  to  his  bro* 
ther  Ffemvail. 

Ffemvail,  the  son  of  Bhodri,  the  son  of  king  Morgan,  was  the 
eighth  king  of  Grlywysyg.  He  gave  much  alms  in  houses,  lands, 
and  other  worldly  wealth  to  the  saints  and  to  the  poor :  but  after 
a  lapse  of  years,  his  brother  Rhys,  who  had  been  lost,  returned ; 
having  been  married,  at  Rome,  to  a  noble  lady,  who  was  also  re- 
lated to  him.  Ffernvail  would  have  restored  the  kingdom  to  him, 
but  Rhys  would  not  resume  it.  After  the  death  of  Ffemyail, 
Howel,  the  son  of  Rhys,  succeeded  him,  and  was  the  ninth  king  of 
Crlywysyg ; — ^but  his  children  were  all  treacherously  murdered  by 
the  Saxons  in  ambush ;  and  that  at  a  time  of  profound  peace,  and 
of  sworn  amity  between  the  several  countries.  After  the  death  of 
Howel,  the  kingdom  of  Glywysyg  became,  by  right  of  paramoont 
sovereignty,  united  to  the  kingdom  of  Glamorgan ;  as  it  had  been 
before  the  time  of  Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid,  the  first  king. 

And  thus  endeth  the  account  of  the  nine  kings  of  Glywysyg, 
with  respect  to  lineage  and  birthright.  The  Saxons,  afterwaids, 
made  several  attempts  to  impose  kings  on  that  country,  bat  with 
little  or  no  success,  for  the  natives  slew  all  the  usurping  kings 
whom  they  would  have  forced  upon  them. 

This  account  was,  in  the  time  of  King  Henry  I.,  committed  to 
written  memorial,  by  Garadoc  the  priest  of  Llancarvan ;  a  man  €Í 
very  superior  learning,  in  all  books  of  history  and  of  genealogies ; 
and  of  what  happened  to  the  country  of  Wales,  and  the  Welsh 
Nation. 

Campum  Electi,  (Campum  Aelecti,  in  another  MS.)  qui  est  in  regione  qw 
Tocatur  devising;  i.  e.  they  came  to  the  Field  o/Alectus,  tchich  ù  in  the  ryw 
that  is  called  Glywysyg, 

The  Campus  Electi  of  Nennius  has  been  literally  rendered  Maes^Aleg  in 
Welsh,  which  is  still  the  name  of  a  parish  anciently  included  in  the  terrttoiy 
of  Glywysyg.    It  is  written  in  English  Bassaleg. 

The  Rev.  W.  Gunn,  who  merely  seems  to  quote  the  Rev.  P.  Roberts  oo 
the  subject,  says  in  his  notes  to  Nennius,  p.  166,  **  Glevising  is  perbaps  an 
error  of  the  copyist :"  but,  with  all  due  deference  to  this  writer's  ant^uarim 
zeal  and  knowledge,  the  error  appertains  entirely  to  himself  in  the  mifitilrsa 
supposition  he  suggests. 


lESTYN  THE  SON  OP  GWRGAN. 

The  cause  of  war  between  lestyn,  and  Bh js,  the  son  of  Tewdwr, 
^i^as  this  :^ — After  the  death  of  Owen,  the  son  of  Howel  the  G^ood, 
Meredith,  his  son,  succeeded  to  the  government,  and  prepared  for 
war  against  Owen,  Lord  of  Glamorgan,  because  of  the  old  conten- 
tion that  existed  between  the  former  Owen,  and  Owen,  the  son  of 
Morgan,  for  the  territories  of  Gower,  Ystrad  Yw,  and  Ewyas. 
Owen  defeated  Meredith ;  and,  in  the  year  998,  the  latter  (Hed, 
when  Aedan,  the  son  of  Blegywryd,  the  son'  of  Morgan  Mwynfawr, 
became  king  of  all  Wales ;  but  he  was  slain  by  Llewelyn,  the  son 
of  Seisyllt,  who  succeeded  him.  At  his  death,  lago,  the  son  of  Eid- 
wal,  took  possession  of  North  Wales  and  its  government ;  when 
Bhydderch,  the  son  of  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  through  the  aid 
of  his  uncle,  assumed  the  government  of  South  Wales,  and  made 
a  castle  at  Cardiff  for  his  royal  residence,  where  he  held  his  court. 
This  was  the  first  time  that  a  castle  was  built  at  that  place;  but  Ho- 
wel, the  son  of  Edwin,  the  son  of  Einion,  the  son  of  Owen,  the  son 
of  Howel  the  Good,  and  his  brother  Meredith,  came  with  a  strong 
Irish  host  to  Wales,  and  killed  Bhydderch  ;  and  thus  both  of  them 
obtained  the  government  of  South  Wales :  but  the  sons  of  Rhy- 
dderch,  with  a  body  of  the  men  of  Glamorgan  and  Gwent,  endea- 
voured to  regain  that  principality,  and  avenge  the  death  of  their 
father;  but  Howel  and  Meredith  met  them  at  Rhaethwy,*  where,  af- 
ter severe  fighting,  the  sons  of  Rhydderch  were  subdued.  In  the 
following  year,  Meredith,  the  son  of  Edwin,  was  slain  by  the  sons 
of  Cynan  ab  Seisyllt,  the  brother  of  Llewelyn,  the  son  of  Seisyllt,  to 
avenge  the  death  of  their  uncle,  who  had  been  killed  by  Howel  and 
Meredith,  the  sons  of  Edwin.  Howel,  the  son  of  Edwin,  the  next 
year,  invited  a  host  of  Saxons  to  Gwent,  to  devastate  the  patri- 
mony of  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Rhydderch,  the  son  of  lestyn.  Lord 
of  Caerlleon,  Wentloog,  and  the  two  Nether- Wents ;  and  there 

1  Thii  account,  being  a  rapid  recapitulation  of  the  circumstancefl  and  mili- 
tary operations  that  led  to,  and  attended,  the  inveterate  contest  between  le»- 
tjn  ap  Gwrgan  and  Rhys  ap  Te wdwr,  explanatory  notes  are  not  deemed  here 
necessary  ;  the  reader  being  referred  to  Warrington  and  Wynne's  Histories  of 
Wales,  and  to  Price's  Hanes  Cymru,  for  any  veriiication  of  events  and  adjust- 
ment of  dates.  <  Error :  see  Note  >  p.  379. 

*  Probably  the  open  moor  between  Roath  and  Runmey  bridge. 

3  D 


388  lESTYN,   THE   SON   OF   GWRGAN. 

Caradoc  was  slain,  which  greatly  exasperated  lestyn;  where- 
upon he  obtained  the  aid  of  GriflGith,  the  son  of  Llewelyn,  prince 
of  North  Wales,  against  Howel ;  and  they  put  him  to  flight,  in 
the  year  1038. 

In  the  year  1042  died  Howel,  the  son  of  Owen,  Lord  of  Gla- 
morgan, who  was  a  good  king,  and  disposed  to  peace,  had  he  been 
allowed  to  follow  his  inclination  by  his  relations. 

After  Howel,  his  brother  Ithel,  succeeded  to  the  goTermnent, 
and  was  a  good  man  for  the  country ;  but  he  died  soon  after,  and 
his  son,  Gwrgan,  governed  Glamorgan  in  order  of  succession.  At 
this  time  Howel,  the  son  of  Edwin,  endeavoured  to  recover  the 
kingdom  from  Griffith,  the  son  of  Llewelyn,  king  of  North  Wales ; 
but  Howel  [was  slain]  and  Griffith  overcame  his  forces.  At  the 
death  of  Howel,  Rhydderch  and  Rhys,  the  sons  of  Rhydderch,  the 
son  of  lestyn,  attenipted  to  regain  and  govern  South  Wales,  by 
their  father'^s  right  of  conquest ;  and  both  collected  a  large  army  in 
Gwent  and  Glamorgan,  to  confront  Griffith,  the  son  of  Llewelyn, 
who  came  to  meet  them ;  and  a  very  sanguinary  battle  ensued, 
until  Griffith  was  compelled  to  flee,  at  night,  with  his  men  towanb 
North  Wales ;  but  Rhydderch  and  Rhys,  from  the  severe  loss  they 
had  sustained,  deemed  it  too  precarious  to  pursue  them  ;  so  eveiy 
one  returned  to  his  country,  to  prepare,  in  men  and  warlike  means, 
for  greater  exertions  :  hence  peace  ensued  for  some  few  years. 

In  the  year  1060,  Owen,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  Rhy- 
dderch, the  son  of  lestyn,  died ;  whereupon,  Caradoc,  the  son  of 
Griffith,  the  son  of  Rhydderch,  the  son  of  lestyn,  collected  a  con- 
siderable army  of  the  men  of  Gwent  and  Glamorgan ;  having  soli- 
cited, in  addition,  the  aid  of  Harold  and  his  brother  Tosty ;  and  with 
this  allied  force,  they  went  to  South  Wales,  and  so  ingratiated  them- 
selves with  the  men  of  Griffith,  Prince  of  North  Wales,that  they 
slew  him.  Having  thus  lost  their  prince,  the  men  of  North  Wales 
were  easily  overcome.    This  occurred  in  the  year  of  Christ,  1061. 

After  Griffith,  the  son  of  Llewelyn'*s  death,  Meredith,  the  son 
of  Owen,  the  son  of  Edwin,  the  son  of  Howel  the  Gt>od,  assumed 
the  government  of  South  Wales ;  and  coincident  with  this.  King 
Edward  banished  Tosty,  governor  of  the  North,  from  the  king- 
dom, and  the  people  of  that  district  chose  Marser  for  their  ruling 
Earl,  soliciting,  at  the  same  time,  aid  from  Wales,  which  they  ob- 
tained of  Gwrgan,  the  son  of  Ithel,  and  of  his  son,  lestyn.  Lord  of 
Glamorgan,  who  became  victorious ;  and  these  Welsh  Lords  Pfr* 
turned  full  of  wealth  and  honour. 


i 


lESTYN,   THE   SON   OF   GWRGAN.  389 

In  the  year  1068,  Gwrgan  and  lestyn  espoused  the  cause  of 
Bleddyn,  the  son  of  Cynfyn,  against  Meredith,  the  son  of  Griffith, 
the  son  of  Llewelyn,  and  vanquished  him ;  so  that  Bleddyn  won 
the  entire  principality  of  Venedotia  (Gwynedd)  and  Powys. 

lestyn,  son  of  the  Lord  Gwrgan,  was  married  to  Denis,  the 
daughter  of  Bleddyn,  the  son  of  Cynfyn,  by  his  first  wife,  who  was 
Haer,  the  daughter  of  Gyhylan ;  from  which  circumstance,  great 
friendship  existed  between  them.  In  the  year  1070,  Caradoc,  the 
son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  Rhydderch,  the  son  of  lestyn,  came,  with 
a  host  of  auxiliary  Normans,  against  Meredith,  the  son  of  Owain, 
the  son  of  Edwin,  king  of  South  Wales;  and  in  support  of  Caradoc 
came  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  with  a  numerous  army  of  the 
men  of  Glamorgan.  In  this  battle,  Meredith  was  slain  on  the 
banks  of  the  river  Bumney,  at  the  place  called  Boath,  near  Car- 
diff Castle ;  whereupon  Caradoc  assumed  the  government  of  South 
Wales ;  but  he  died  soon  after,  and  his  son  Rhydderch  ruled  in 
succession ;  his  court  being  at  Boverton. 

In  the  year  1072,  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  Rhy- 
dderch, sided  with  Gronwy  and  Llewelyn,  the  sons  of  Cadwgan, 
the  son  of  Bleddyn,  the  son  of  Cynfyn,  against  Rhys,  the  son  of 
Owen,  the  son  of  Edwin,  who  had  slain  their  grandfather ;  and 
they  were  victorious. 

In  the  year  1074,  Rhydderch  was  slain,  through  the  treachery 
of  his  cousin,  Meirchion,  the  son  of  Rhys,  the  son  of  Rhydderch. 
After  Rhydderch'*s  death,  Rhys,  the  son  of  Owen,  governed  South 
Wales  himself,  where  previously  they  had  ruled  conjointly,  under 
an  acknowledged  agreement  that  the  right  of  national  inheritance 
should  rest  in  the  descendants  of  Rhyddercli,  the  son  of  Caradoc  ; 
but,  shortly  after,  Rhys,  the  son  of  Owen,  Prince  of  South  Wales, 
and  Howel,  his  brother,  were  killed  near  Lantwit  Major,  wliere 
they  had  fled  for  refuge,  to  the  sanctuary  of  Iltutus. 

In  the  year  1077,  Rhys,  the  sou  of  Tevvdwr,  began  to  govern 
South  Wales,  as  the  riglitful  heir,  in  paternal  descent,  from 
Rhodri  the  Great ;  and  at  the  same  time,  Griffitli,  the  son  of 
Cynan,  became  the  just  heir  to  the  principality  of  North  Wales; 
so  that,  now,  all  Wales  had  reverted  to  its  lawful  princes ;  and  it 
would  have  been  well  for  the  country  had  this  state  of  things 
been  allowed  to  continue:  but  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  now 
governed  Glamorgan  after  his  father,  wlio  died  at  the  age  of  one 
hundred  and  twenty  seven  years;  and  he  (lestyn)  himself  being 
bv  this  time  a  hundred  and  six  vears  old;  and  hence,  it  might  have 


390  lESTYN,   THE   SON   OP   OWRGAN. 

been  thought,  too  old  to  claim  any  earthly  sovereignty ;  but  claim 
it  he  did  ; — ^that  is,  the  kingdom  of  South  Wales  for  his  fiunily, 
in  the  persons  of  his  great-grand-children.  To  effect  this  object, 
he  collected  a  numerous  host  against  Bhys,  the  son  of  Tewdwr ; 
and  Madog,  Gadwgan,  and  Bhyryd,  the  sons  of  Bleddyn,  the  son 
of  Cynfyn,  aided  his  enterprise  ;  consequently  Bhys  fled  to  Ire- 
land, where  he  experienced  much  kindness ;  receiving  aid  both  in 
men  and  ammunition ;  whereupon  he  returned,  with  a  heavy  fleet, 
to  South  Wales,  and  became  victorious  over  his  opponents  in  the 
battle  of  Llechryd,^  where  Madog  and  Bhyryd  were  slain,  and 
Gadwgan  driven  in  flight  quite  out  of  the  country.  A  short  peace 
now  ensued,  until  the  year  1089,  when  Gadifor,  the  son  of  Collwyn, 
Lord  of  Dimetia,  died,  and  his  sons,  Llewelyn  and  Einion,  induced 
Griffith,  the  son  of  Meredith,  to  fight  against  Bhys,  the  son  ci 
Tewdwr,  their  Lord  and  King. 

(And  so  on,  to  the  end  of  the  history.*) 


After  lestyn  had  thus  been  dispossessed  by  the  French,  he  fled 
to  seclusion,  and  died  at  Keynsham,  aged  one  hundred  and  eleven 
years  ;  and  leaving  behind  him  nine  sons  and  daughters,  sixty-six 
grand-children,  one  hundred  and  forty-one  great  grand-children, 
two  hundred  and  nine  great-great-grand-children,  and  fifteen  greai- 
great-great-grand-children.  One  son  died  before  him,  nine  grand- 
children, five  great-grand-children,  two  great-great-grand-children, 
and  one  great-great-great-grand-child,  the  whole  of  which  were  of 
his  own  family;  amounting  altogether  to  four  hundred  and  forty- 
nine.  He  was  the  prince  of  the  most  numerous  descendants  thit 
ever  existed  in  Britain ;  and  he  lived  to  see  a  great-grandson,  and 
a  great-great-grandson  as  kings ;  which  no  man  ever  saw  before 
him.* 

'  A  place  on  the  Cardiganshire  side  of  the  Tivy,  opposite  to  Cilgemn  in 
Pembrokeshire.  s  Sic  in  MS. 

>  The  extreme  ages  of  lestyn,  and  several  of  his  ancestors,  have  startled  the 
belief  of  many  commentators ;  the  effect  being,  a  considerable  degree  of  inoe- 
dulity  respecting  the  longevities  attributed  to  them.  It  would  be  qnite 
superfluous  here  to  commence  a  scrutinizing  inquiry  into  the  reality  of  their 
long  periods  of  existence,  having  already  given,  with  that  view,  a  synopticii 
retrospect  of  Morgan  the  Aged's  life. — A  few  words,  therefore,  in  support  of 
lestyn's  duration,  shall  suffice. — From  his  marriage,  in  9d4,  to  his  final  deftet 
in  1089,  a  period  of  95  years  intervenes;  during  which,  he  appears incemntlj 


THE  PRINCIPALITY  OF  lESTYN,  THE  SON  OF 
GWRGAN. 

Iesttn,  the  son  of  Chwrrgan,  was  Prince  of  Glamorgan  in  the  time 
of  William  Rufiis ;  at  which  time  Glamorgan  contained  the  fol- 
lowing districts: — First  and  principally,  Morganwg  (Glamorgan 
proper,)  under  which  appellation  all  the  country  between  the  rivers 
Usk  and  Neath  was  included.  The  sea  and  the  black  mountains 
were  the  other  extreme  boundaries. 

Secondly,  Gwent,  under  which  name,  the  whole  country  between 
the  Usk  and  the  Wye,  and  also  the  higher  parts  of  Gwent,  called 
Erging,  [Erchenfield]  Ewyas,  and  Ystrad  Yw,  called  the  three 
slieves  [appendages]  of  Gwent. 

in  Tiew«  88  a  prominent  actor  in  the  continuouB  wars  of  that  long  and  turbu- 
lent period ;  and,  as  it  is  quite  probable  that  he  was  engaged  in  warlike 
eperstions  for  five  years  previously  to  his  marriage,  we  may  safely  conclude 
that  he  led  an  active  militûy  life  through  the  extraordioaiy  duration  of  a  whole 
oentnry  ;  as  if  verifying,  in  his  own  patriarchal  person,  one  of  the  denuncia- 
üoiis  that  constituted  the  most  hopeless  portion  of  the  Curse  of  Kehama, — 
^  Time  shall  not  harm  thee."  During  his  astonishingly  long  career  we  see 
hb  sons,  grandsons,  and  great-grandsons,  advancing  themselves,  under  his  sup- 
port, to  princely  sway  ;  and  many  of  them  falling  by  his  ever  present  side,  in 
defence  of  their  authority.  After  his  overthrow,  Sir  Pain  Turberville  mar- 
ried, according  to  Caradoc,  his  great-grand-daughter, — ^namely,  Assar,  or 
Sarah,  the  daughter  of  Meyryg,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  lestyn  ;  but 
according  to  the  records  that  immediately  follow  in  this  volume,  and  which 
are  sapported  by  several  other  testimonies  in  my  possession,  she  was  his  great- 
great-grand-daughter  ;  being  the  sole  daughter  and  heiress  of  Morgan^  the  son 
of  Meryyg,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  fourth  son  of  lestyn. 

Sir  ÉdwEu^  Mansel,  in  1591,  says  that  lestyn  'Uumed  monk  in  Kensam 
prioTy  [Somersetshire]  where  he  lived  not  giving  out  who  he  was  till  the 
time  of  his  death,  when  he  discovered  all,  now  being  129  years  old."  The 
ages  of  extremely  old  persons  have  always  been  over-rated,  when  mere  conjec- 
ture, or  events  of  the  long  past,  supplied  the  guiding  data ;  such,  to  some  extent, 
may  have  been  the  case  with  regard  to  lestyn  ;  but,  allowing  him  to  have 
been  21  years  old  at  his  marriage,  he  would  have  been  116  years  of  age  had 
he  fidlen  in  his  last  battle  ;  but  as  it  is  stated  by  some  writers  that  he  escaped 
first  to  St.  Augustine,  Bristol,  and  removed  thence  to  Keynsham  ;  while 
others  corroborate  Sir  £.  M.'s  account ;  it  is  not  improbable  that  this  un- 
flinching chieftain  was  120  years  old  when  he  drew  his  parting  breath  in  holy 
refuge,  at  Keynsham,  where  he  was  buried,  according  to  Sir  £.  M.  upon  the 
authority  of  the  eminent  bard  and  antiquary,  Lly welyn  Sion  of  Llangewydd. 


392  THE   PRINCIPALITY   OP   IE8TYN. 

Thirdly,  The  Red  Cantred,  between  the  Wye  and  Seveni,  to 
Gloucester  bridge,  and  thence  to  Hereford. 

Fourthly,  The  part  called  The  Cantred,  at  present  denominated 
— The  Hundred^  in  some  books,  lying  between  the  rivers  Neath 
and  Tawy. 

Fifthly,  Gower,  between  the  rivers  Tawy  and  Towy,  so  far  as 
the  Three  Commots  extend.^ — All  these  countries  belonged  to  tìie 
paramount  Lordship  or  Principality  of  Glamorgan  from  the  time  of 
King  Arthur;  but  when  Bhodri  the  Great  subdivided  his  domi- 
nion between  his  three  sons ;  Gadell,  the  eldest,  had  South  Wales; 
and  consequently  he,  and  his  descendants,  maintained  that  they 
were  entitled  to  govern  the  districts  called  Gower  and  Camwyllion, 
which  claim  frequently  caused  war  between  Glamorgan  and  South 
Wales,  from  Cadeirs  time  to  that  of  lestyn,  the  son  of  G-wigan. 

When  Gwrgan,  the  son  of  Ithel,  the  son  of  Morgan  the  Aged, 
was  Prince  of  Glamorgan,  Rhydderch,  the  son  of  lestyn,  the  son 
of  Gwrgan,  raised  a  large  army,  won  the  dominion  of  South  Wales, 
and  became  its  prince.  One  of  his  sons  succeeded  to  the  same 
government,  after  whom  some  of  his  grand-children  ruled  that  dis- 
trict :  but  eventually  Rhys,  the  son  of  Tewdwr,  regained  a  laige 
portion  of  it  from  the  grand-children  of  lestyn ;  however,  the  war 
still  continued.  Another  grandson  of  lestyn,  named  Treham,  the 
son  of  Garadog,  having  long  been  prince  of  North  Wales,  was,  at 
last,  defeated  and  slain  by  Griffith  the  son  of  Gynan.  Griffith  sided 
with  Rhys  [ap  Tewdwr]  against  lestyn,  and  against  every  dbiei^ 
tain  who  had  aided  his  sons  and  grandsons  while  they  were  princes 
of  South  Wales ;  and,  among  others,  there  was  a  noble  chieftain 
who  was  Lord  of  Maenor  Deivy,  named  Einion,  the  son  of  CoUwyn, 
whose  possessions  and  property  Rhys,  the  son  of  Tewd¥rr,  had 
seized,  and  for  whose  apprehension  he  had  proclaimed  a  high 
reward ;  offering  to  give  three  hundred  heads  of  cattle  and  a 
thousand  acres  of  land,  in  free  lordship,  to  any  one  who  wonU 
either  take  him  prisoner,  or  bring  him  dead  or  alive,  to  his  pre- 
sence. Thus  circumstanced,  and  surmising  treachery,  Einion 
fled  to  Glamorgan,  to  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  who  was  his 
uncle;  and  having  made  his  complaint,  and  related  the  wh<Je 
affair,  lestyn  advised  him  to  go  to  London,  where  he  was  well 


1  By  the  expression  "  Y  Tri  Chwmmwd,"  or,  the  Three  CammoUy'-Cnh 
W£u,  (Kindred  Tribes)  Carnwyllion,  (the  Cam  of  the  Banditti)  and  IscBXSV, 


THE  CHILDREN  OF  lESTYN.  393 

known  to  the  great  men  of  King  William  Bufus,  and  in  high 
esteem  with  the  Sovereign  himself;  for  he  had  filled  a  distinguished 
office  under  him,  in  his  wars. 


lESTYN,  THE  SON  OF  GWRGAÎTS  CHILDREN.» 

Ibeptyn's  first  wife  was  Denis,  the  daughter  of  Bleddyn,  the  son 
of  Cynfyn,  prince  of  Powis,  who  had,  for  her  jointure,  the  Lord- 
ship of  Kibor  in  Glamorgan.  lestyn,  now,  built  a  castle  at  Car- 
diff, and  another,  for  his  wife,  at  the  place  called  from  her  Denis 
Powis,  conferring  on  this  place  the  privilege  of  Lordship  by  Right; 
and  on  the  castle  and  its  domains  the  privileges  of  a  Royal  Court. 
By  this  wife  lestyn  had  eight  children. 

1.  Rhydderch,  the  son  of  lestyn,  who  had  the  Lordship  of 
Wentloog,  with  the  royal  residence  at  Caerlleon  upon  Usk.  He 
won  the  Principality  of  South  Wales,  of  which  his  children  and 
grand-children  became  princes :  but  it  was  in  virtue  of  his  father 
and  mother^s  marriage  settlement,  under  the  conditions  of  a  deed 
executed  to  Bleddyn,  the  son  of  Cynfyn,  that  Rhydderch  obtained, 
by  primogeniture,  the  Lordship  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk. 

2.  Meredith,  the  son  of  lestyn. 

3.  Cadwgan,  the  son  of  lestyn. 

4.  Griffith,  the  son  of  lestyn,  who  had  the  Lordship  of  Coetty, 
by  settlement,  under  the  condition  of  paying  a  gold  noble'  annu- 
ally to  his  brother  Caradog,  who  was  made  Lord  of  Glamorgan  by 
his  father. 

Griffith,  the  son  of  lestyn,  of  Coetty,  had  a  son  named  Meyryg, 
who  excelled  all  his  contemporaries  in  noble  and  military  accom- 
plishments, whence  originated  the  proverb, 

"  Meyryg's  name  is  a  great  name.**^^ 


are  generally  understood.  They  lie  to  the  north  of  Gower,  between  the 
riTers  Burry  [Uychwr]  and  Towy. 

Í  From  Watkin  Giles's  MS. 

s  Sir  £.  Mansel  corroborates  this ;  stating  that  ^'Upon  accotint  of  getting 
ponesBÌon  by  marriage,  Pain  [Turberville]  would  never  pay  the  noble  that 
was  due  to  the  chief  Lord  every  year,  to  Sir  Robert,  [Fitzhamon]  but 
ehoae  to  pay  it  to  Caradoc  ab  lestyn,  as  the  person  owned  as  Chief  Lord  of 
Glamorgan."  s  See  note  p.  368. 


394  THE   CHILDREN   OF   lESTYN. 

This  Meyryg  had  a  son  named  Morgan,  who  had  a  daughter 
called  Sarah,  an  only  child  and  sole  heiress ;  and  she  married  Sir 
Pain  Turberville,  who,  consequently,  obtained  the  Lordship  of 
Coetty  in  rightful  possession ;  therefore  he  neither  acknowledged 
tribute,  submission,  nor  homage  to  Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon,  and, 
hence,  he  was  called,  by  the  French,  "  Pain  the  Devil.'^ 

5.  Bhiwallon,  the  son  of  lestyn,  who  had  lands  in  Corboil,  in 
France,  given  to  him  by  Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon. 

6.  Morgan  Hir,  (the  Tall,)  the  son  of  lestyn,  who  had  landed 
property  in  the  Lordship  of  Miskin. 

7.  Elen,  the  daughter  of  lestyn,  who  married  Trym,  the  son  of 
Maenarch,  Lord  of  Brecknock ;  and  she  was  called  Elen  the  Fair. 

8.  Gwenllian,  the  daughter  of  lestyn,  who  married  Ynyr, 
King  of  Gwent,  who  lived  at  Llanfoist,  in  the  time  of  Edward  the 
Confessor. 

The  second  wife  of  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  was  Anghanul, 
the  daughter  of  Elystan  Glodrydd,  king  of  the  territory  between 
the  Wye  and  the  Severn ;"  and  with  her  he  had,  in  dower,  the  Bed 
Cantred  between  the  said  rivers.  By  this  wife  lestyn  had  five 
children, — namely, 

1.  Caradog,^  the  son  of  lestyn,  who  had  the  district  between  the 
rivers  Neath  and  Avan.^  He  erected  a  castle  in  the  town  of  Aber- 
avan,  where  he  held  his  coui*t ;  and  granted  lands  and  mnnicipil 
rights  to  the  town. 

2.  Madog,  the  son  of  lestyn,  who  had  the  Lordship  of  Bnthin, 
of  Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon. 


1  Caradoc  the  historian  takes  no  notice  of  this  marriage,  which  is,  howercr, 
well  verified  by  many  manuscript  authorities  in  my  possession,  independentlj 
of  the  testimonies  of  the  text ;  Sir  Edward  Mansel  alludes  to  it  frequcnilr» 
carefully  discriminating  between  the  children  by  this  manriage  and  thoee  hf 
the  first. 

'  Sir  E.  Mansel  describes  him  thus ; — ^*  Caradoc  the  eldest  son  of  ItäÌDflj 
his  second  wife  Angharad  Daughter  of  EUysdan  Glodrydd,  Earl  of  Feilez  or 
Hereford." 

'The  following  is  an  extract  from  one  of  the  Tmeman  MSS.,  buti^pe- 
rently  taken  from  one  of  the  many  copies  of  Sir  E.  M.'s  history,  that  mob  to 
have  been  extant  about  80  years  ago. — **  Some  say  that  it  was  the  hatààif 
of  Morgan  or  Margam,  which  then  consisted  of  the  Country  from  CraBiljrn  to 
Ogwyr  (Ogmore)  and  was  the  largest  of  all  the  Lordships,  which  Caradoc  had 
with  a  deed  securing  to  him  the  Principality  of  Glam  (sic  in  MS.)  after  kii 
(lestm's)  death."    Fitzhamon  diminished  the  fiur  laiger  territory  of  tlŵ 


THE   CHILDREN   OF   lESTYN.  396 

3.  Morgan,  the  son  of  lestyn,  who  died  before  years  of  maturity. 

4.  Bhys,  the  son  of  lestyn,  who  had  the  Lordship  of  Sovlen, 
between  Neath  and  Tawy. 

6.  Nest,  the  daughter  of  lestyn,  who  was  given  in  marriage  to 
Einion,  the  son  of  Collwyn,  by  Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon ;  and  with 
her,  in  dower,  the  Lordships  of  Senghenydd  and  Miskin. 


prince,  who  appears  to  have  refused  homage  to  him,  to  the  small  sterile  district 
between  the  rivers  Neath  and  Ayan. 

Some  Camhro-British  primitives  have  become  obsolete ;  and  others  nearly 
80.  The  word — banriy  which,  adjectively,  means  highy  but,  substantively, 
stands  for  beacony  or  height^  is  of  the  latter  class.  The  etymologies  of  several 
words,  that  include  this  syllable,  have,  consequently,  been  misunderstood ; 
and,  hence,  Aberavan  has  often  been  erroneously  written  Aberavon.  The 
word,  according  to  its  correct  orthography,  is  derived  from  Aher^  a  contraction 
oîabenOy  (a  confluence)  and  ^t»n,  a  river  of  that  name.  Again,  Avan  is  a 
eomponnd  of  the  prepositive  a  (with,)  which  has  often  an  augmentative 
effect,  and  bann  (height) ;  and  as  this  river  receives  its  stream  from  con- 
tributaiy  mountain  torrents,  its  name  is  manifest.  The  river  Amman,  that 
fdlfl  into  the  Cynon,  at  Aberaman,  near  Aberdare,  is  similarly  supplied, — 
whence,  also,  its  name ;  for  mann  and  vann  are  both  commutative  forms 
of  ftann.  The  brook  Vann,  that  falls  into  the  Taff,  at  Abervan,  in  the 
pariah  of  Merthyr  Tydvil,  is,  also,  a  mountain  stream  of  very  rapid  descent. 

The  word  avon  (river)  b  a  common  Cambro-British  term  for  every  river ; 
whereas  A  van,  Amman,  &c.,  are  the  proper  names  of  particular  streams.  Had 
the  names  of  confluences  been  derived  from  the  common  term  atxm,  every  one 
of  them  must,  indiscriminately,  have  been  Aberavon. 

The  Avon  of  Bristol  evidently  lost  its  ancient  proper  name,  when  the  pri- 
mitive vernacular  language  ceased  in  the  country  through  which  it  passes. 
The  same  may  be  said  of  the  other  Avons  of  England. 

While  engaged  in  preparing  my  Welsh  Prize  Essay  on  the  History  of  the 
Vale  of  Neath,  I  selected  24  poems,  written,  successively,  by  Bards  of  high 
genius,  from  the  early  part  of  the  fourteenth  century,  to  the  end  of  the  seven- 
teenth, in  honour  of  different  branches  of  the  present  family  of  Williams  of 
Aberpeigwm,  who  have  resided  there  for  about  800  years ;  and  in  ail  these  com  • 
positions,  their  descent  from  lestyn,  the  last  prince  of  Glamorgan  and  Gwent, 
is  indubitably  verified.  I  have  had  access  to  several  pedigrees  of  this  family 
in  the  British  Museum ;  others  exist  in  the  Herald  Office ; — Lewis  Dwnn,  in 
his  Heraldic  Visitation  of  Wales,  makes  frec^uent  mention  of  them ;  and  the 
whole  concur  in  attributing  to  them  the  same  princely  genealogy.  They  are, 
in  fact,  descended,  by  various  intermarriages,  from  Nest,  the  daughter  of  les- 
tyn, and  wife  of  Einion  ah  Collwyn,  from  Rhys,  the  son  of  lestyn,  who  had 
the  territory  between  the  rivers  Neath  and  Tawy,  and  from  Caradoc,  the  son 
of  lestyn,  just  mentioned.  The  name  of  Williams  was  adopted  in  the  reign 
of  Henry  VIII ;  but,  correctly,  it  should  be  De  Avan,  which,  by  different 
writers,  has  been  variously  given — De  Aven,  and  De  Avene,  with  some  other 
deviations.    A  charter  granted  by  Sir  Thomas  De  Avene  (the  seventh  in  des- 

3   E 


396  THE   LINEAGE   OP 

Howel,  the  son  of  Madog,  the  son  of  lestyn,  had  the  Lordship 
of  Lantrithyd,  of  Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon.  This  Howel  had  a  son 
called  Cynfrig,  who  was  the  bravest  of  all  in  his  time  ;  and  he  led 
the  Welsh  against  the  French,  whom  he  repressed;  preserving 
his  property  and  power,  in  defiance  of  Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon^s 
forces. 


THE  LINEAGE  OF  CAERLLEON  UPON  üSK.i 


1.  Rhydderch,  the  son  of  lestyn,  (Lord  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk* 
and  Wentloog)  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  the  son  of  Ithel,  the  son  of 
Morgan  the  Great,  King  of  Gwent  and  Glamorgan,  which  districts 
were  included  in  the  country  called  Siluria,  in  ancient  times :  but 
Siluria  comprehended  the  entire  territory  between  the  Wye  and 
the  Towy,  and  also  the  Red  Cantred,*'*  that  is,  the  district  between 
the  Wye  and  the  Severn,  extending  to  Gloucester  bridge,  and 
comprising  the  country  from  Hereford  to  Gloucester. 

2.  Griffith,  the  son  of  Rhydderch,  the  son  of  lestyn.  Prince  rf 
Caerlleon  upon  Usk. 


cent  from  lestyn)  to  the  Town  of  Aberavan,  will  be  given  in  the  Appendix ; 
and  also  an  interesting  grant  of  Mynydd  Sovlen,  or  Rosolvyn  Hill,  to  the 
Abbey  of  Margam.  The  latter,  with  a  translation,  was  kindly  givoi  to  me 
by  William  Williams,  Esq.  the  present  proprietor  of  Aberpergwm. 

I  From  Me^'ryg  Datydd  of  Llanisan's  MS. 

^  The  Dominion  of  Caerlleon  retained  its  independence  for  many  ages  alifr 
that  of  Glamorgan  (exclusive  of  the  former)  had  been  suppressed.  See  Ed- 
ward Williams's  communications,  Hist.  Monm.  App.  p.  84. 

This  Lineage  was  extracted  from  the  Book  of  Meyric  Dafydd  of  Llan-Isiii, 
(now  Lanishen.)  Meyric  Dafydd  copied  largely  from  the  Rhagland  libniy 
before  it  was  iniquitously  burnt  by  Cromwell's  besieging  army. 

s  The  north-eastern  boundary  of  this  Bed  Cantred  is  considerably  south  of 
Gloucester,  according  to  Owen's  "  Map  of  the  Ancient  Diviaons  of  Wale»  ;** 
but,  as  many  English  writers,  as  well  as  Welsh  authorities,  concur  in  stating 
that  the  country  between  the  Wye  and  the  Severn  was  in  Siluria,  the  worthy 
and  zealous  antiquary  may  be  deemed  erroneous  in  the  said  line  of  demarca- 
tion which  he  gives. — A  line  drawn  from  Gloucester  to  Hereford,  would,  if 
extended  on  in  the  same  direction,  nearly  coincide  with  the  Wye  for  a  con- 
siderable diiitance. 


CAERLLEON    UPON   USK.  397 

3.  Garadog,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  Bhjdderch,  the  son 
of  lestjm,  the  son  of  Gwrgan. 

4.  Rhydderch,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  Rhydderch,  the 
son  of  lestyn. 

5.  Meredith,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  Rhydderch,  the  son 
of  lestyn,  who  was  Lord  of  Caerlleon ;  and  whose  son,  Howel, 
was  Lord  of  Gantrev  Bychan,^  of  which  place  this  Meredith  had 
previously  been  Lord :  and  hence,  Gantrev  Bychan  acquired  the 
appellation  of — the  Territory  of  Meredith^  in  Glamorgan. 

6.  Owen,  the  son  of  Garadog,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of 
Rhydderch,  the  son  of  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  became,  after 
Meredith,  Lord  of  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk. 

7.  lorwerth,  the  son  of  Owen,  became  the  next  Lord  of  Gaer- 
lleon, and  he  erected  the  castles  of  Machen  and  Gelligaer.     He  ' 
married  Angharad  the  daughter  of  Uchtryd,^  bishop  of  Llandaff. 

8.  Howel,  the  son  of  lorwerth,  the  son  of  Owen,  Lord  of  Gaer- 
lleon upon  Usk. 

9.  Morgan,  the  son  of  lorwerth,  the  son  of  Owen,  Lord  of  Gaer- 
Ueon  upon  Usk.  In  the  time  of  King  Edward  I.  he  was  deprived 
of  his  possessions,  after  Llewelyn,  the  son  of  Griffith,  Prince  of 
North  Wales,  had  been  slain ;  and  about  A.  D.  1300,  the  sway  of 
Morgan,  the  son  of  Howel,  the  son  of  lorwerth,  entirely  ceased 
at  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk ;  for  Madojnr  the  Traitor,  of  North  Wales, 
betrayed  him  ;  hence  he  was  held  a  prisoner  by  King  Edward ;  and 
died,  many  years  after,  at  Gardiflf  castle,  where  he  had  been  crowned 
King  of  all  Wales,  a  short  time  before.  After  this  mastery  over 
him,  no  other  prince  in  Wales  was  able,  by  strength  of  arms,  to 
withstand  the  King  of  England. 


>  This  "  Cantrev  Bychan"  seems  to  be  the  same  as  the  "C  wmmwd  Bach,"  or 
Xi/tíe  ŵmmo/,  of  "  Cantrev  Iscoed"  in  Gwent.  (Myv.  Arch.  p.  G12.)  There 
is  a  "  Cantrev  Bychan"  adjacent  to  Iscennon,  in  Dyved ;  but  which,  an- 
ciently, appears,  (according  to  onward  testimony)  to  have  also  been  included 
in  Glamorgan. 

'  Uchtryd  was  bishop  of  Llandaff  from  the  year  1 130  to  1148,  when  he  died. 


THE   FOUR  PRINCIPAL  ROYAL   COURTS    IN   GLA- 
MORGAN, 

AT  THE  PERIOD  OF  lESTYN,  THE  SON  OF  GWRGAN. 


1.  Caerlleon  upon  U8k,2  in  the  Cantred  of  Wentloog. 

2.  Cardiff,  where  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  built  a  new  castle, 
with  strong  fortifications. 

3.  Boverton.  ^     These  two  being  in  the  Can- 


J 


4.  The  Castle  of  Dunravon.    5         ^^^^  ^^  Gorwenydd.' 


THE  ROYAL  LINEAGE  OF  COETTY.* 


The  last  of  the  British  race,  who  was  Lord  of  Coetty,  was  Mor- 
gan, the  son  of  Meyryg,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  lestyn,  the 


1  From  Meyric  Dafydd,  of  Llan-Isan's  Book,  (MS.) 

3  The  fact — that  the  territory  of  Glamorgan  extended  to  the  Uak,  for  minj 
years  before  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  should  be  borne  in  mind  ;  or,  the  in- 
clusion in  that  country  of  places  that  have,  since  the  divisional  changes  estab- 
lished by  the  said  monarch,  been  only  known  as  parts  of  MonmoathshiR^ 
must  appear,  at  first  thought,  as  inconsistent. 

*  GoRWENNTDD,— or  the  Uttermost  of  the  Gwents.  Cormpt  forms  of  this 
word  have  been  variously  given,  by  different  authors.  Caradoc  of  Llancarfin 
introduces  it  frequently,  and  correctly,  (Gorwennydd)  in  his  Chronicle.  It 
occurs  often  also,  and  correctly,  in  the  Silurian  Genealogies  of  the  Cambn>- 
British  Saints,  that  appear  onward ;  and,  in  Sir  Richard  C.  Hoare's  iranalotion 
of  Giraldus  Cambrcnsis's  Cambrian  Itinerary,  the  primitive  form  is  presented. 
But,  in  the  Latin  text  of  the  Liber  Landavensis,  it  is  expressed  Wariunit, 
(p.  237)  which  is  rendered — Gorfynydd  in  the  translation.  The  worthy  Edi- 
tor was,  doubtless,  led  to  this  error  by  a  correspondent  mistake  in  the  Myr. 
Arch.  II.  p.  512.  This  Cantred,  probably,  was  co-extensive  with  the  present 
ecclesiastical  Deanery  (upper  and  lower)  of  Groneathy  which  appellatioa  is 
evidently  a  corruption  of  Gorwenntdd.  See  E.  W.'s.  contributions  to  Wil- 
liams's Monm.  p.  14,  15. 

*  From  Thomas  Hopkin  of  Coychurch's  MS. ;  one  of  Thomas  ab  levan  of 
Tre-bryn's  numerous  transcripts.     See  preface  to  My  v.  Arch.  III. 


THE   ROYAL   LINEAGE   OF   COETTY.  399 

son  of  Gwrgan ;  and  he  had  a  daughter  named  Assar ;  who,  in 
some  books,  is  called  Sar,  (Sarah.)  This  daughter  married  Tur- 
berville,  who  was  one  of  the  thirteen  knights  of  spoliation  that 
came  to  Glamorgan  in  the  time  of  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  to 
seize  the  kingdom  from  that  prince,  and  their  possessions  from  the 
rightful  owners.  This  took  place  in  the  year  of  the  Son  of  Gtod'^a 
age,  1089. 

Griffith,  the  son  of  lestyn,  exercised  authority  under  his  bro- 
ther, Garadoc,  and  paid  an  annual  tribute  to  him  of  a  noble, 
which,  by  a  similar  obligation,  is  paid  to  the  king,  who  is  now 
Lord  of  Glamorgan. 

1.  Pain  Turberville.  who  married  Assar,  the  daughter  and  only 
child,  and,  hence,  the  heiress,  of  Morgan,  the  son  of  Meyryg,  the 
son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  King  of 
Glamorgan,  and  Prince  of  the  Seven  Cantreds  of  Siluria ;  which 
country  included  all  the  territory  between  Gloucester  bridge  and 
the  river  Towy. 

2.  Sir  Simmont  Turberville,  the  son  of  Sir  Pain,  by  Assar,  the 
daughter  of  Morgan.  He  erected  the  Old  Castle  that  is  now  at 
Bridgend  upon  Ogmore. 

5.  Sir  Pain  the  second,  son  of  Sir  Simmont,  whose  wife  was 
Matilda,  the  daughter  of  Morgan  Gam,  the  son  of  Morgan,  the 
son  of  Caradog,  the  son  of  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan. 

4.  Sir  Gilbert  Turberville,  the  son  of  Sir  Pain  the  second,  by  a 
daughter  of  Morgan  Gam. 

6.  Sir  Pain  Turberville  the  third,  the  son  of  Sir  Gilbert. 

6.  Sir  Gilbert,  his  brother,  who  succeeded  him,  and  was  mar- 
ried to  Meiwen,  the  daughter  of  Cadwgan,  (Lord  of  Castle  upon 
Alain^)  the  son  of  Ithel,  the  son  of  Ivor,  the  son  of  Morgan,  the 
son  of  Caradog,  the  son  of  lestyn. 

7.  Sir  Gilbert  the  third,  the  son  of  Sir  Gilbert  the  second,  who 
succeeded. 

8.  Sir  Richard,  the  son  of  Sir  Gilbert  the  third,  who  came  next. 

9.  Sir  Pain  Turberville  the  third,^  the  son  of  Sir  Bichard,  who 
married  Gwenllian,  the  daughter  of  Sir  Bichard  Talbot,  and  had 
four  sons,  namely,  Gilbert,  Bichard,  Simmont,  and  Edward, — and 
four  daughters,  who  were,  Agnes,  married  to  Sir  John  Delabear, 
Lord  of  Weobly  Castle,  [in  Gower;]  Margaret,  married  to  Sir 

1  Ciutle  upon  Alain  is  in  the  pari^th  of  St.  Brides  Major,  Glamorganshire. 
<  Sic  in  MS. 


400  THE   ROYAL   LINEAGE   OF   COETTY. 

Bichard  Stackpoole,  in  Pembroke;  Catherine,  married  to  Sir  Roger 
Berkrolles,  of  New  Orchard,  called  Norchard,  in  St.  Athan,  who 
was  Lord  of  St.  Athan ;  and  Assar,  (Sarah)  who  was  married  to 
Sir  William  Gamage,  Lord  of  Bogeate,  in  Gwent. 

10.  Sir  Gilbert  the  fourth,  the  son  of  Sir  Pain  the  third. 

11.  Sir  Gilbert  the  fifth,  his  son,  followed ;  but  he  had  no  legi- 
timate children. 

12.  Sir  Bichard,  the  son  of  Sir  Pain  the  third,  succeeded,  but 
he  had  no  legitimate  issue.  A  natural  son  of  his,  named  Simmont, 
took  to  his  possessions  and  property ;  but  he  was  not  allowed  to 
retain  them ;  his  father  having  settled  the  whole  on  his  nephew, 
Sir  Laurence  Berkrolles,  Lord  of  St.  Athan,  and  the  son  of  ìúb 
sister  Catherine,  the  wife  of  Sir  Boger  Berkrolles. 

13.  Sir  Laurence  Berkrolles,  who  succeeded  next  to  the  Lcxrd- 
ship  of  Coetty.  His  wife  was  Matilda,  the  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas 
Despencer,  Lord  of  Glamorgan,  who  lived  at  the  Castle  of  Ffili, 
(Caerphily.)  She  poisoned  her  husband.  Sir  Laurence  Berkrolles, 
so  that  he  died ;  whereupon  she  was  buried  alive,  agreeably  to  the 
sentence  pronounced  on  her  by  the  country  and  the  Lord  Sir 
Bichard  Began,  who  was  Lord  of  Glamorgan.* 

After  the  death  of  Sir  Laurence  Berkrolles,  the  property  came  to 

14.  Sir  William  Gti,mage,  the  son  of  Gilbert,  the  son  of  Sir 
William  Gamage,  by  Assar,  the  daughter  of  Sir  Pain  TurbenriUe 
the  third :  and  now  as  the  possessions  had  thrice  descended  by 
distafi*,  that  is,  by  the  right  of  a  daughter,  the  Boyal  Lordship  of 
Coetty  became  alienated,  and  went  as  an  escheat  to  Sir  Bichard 
Began,  as  the  law  required.  But  although  property  may,  still /nv- 
rogatite  cannot  descend  beyond  three  times  successively  by  distaff; 
hence,  the  king  is  now  Lord  of  the  Court  of  Coetty,  and  is 


1  This  circumstance  is  mentioned  in  Homiray 's  Norman  Castles  of  Glamor- 
gan. It  is  also  additionally  supported  by  the  tradition  of  the  place,  (St.  Athan;) 
some  superstitious  inhabitants  of  which  continue  horror-stuck  at  the  bare 
mention  of  '*  Y  Lady  Wenn,"  (the  White  Lady)  whom  they  beliere  full  to 
haunt  the  reported  scene  of  her  cruel  death,  near  the  by-road  leadiog  to  Bat's 
Lays,  (possibly  Beast's  Lays)  an  ancient  residence,  a  little  to  the  west  of  St. 
Athan  village. 

Dreamt  she  of  torture's  frantic  start. 

When,  light  of  foot,  and  light  of  heart, 

Beside  Senghenydd's*  mighty  towers,  *  Caerphily. 

She  ranged  among  her  rosy  bowers, — 

Herself  the  beauteous  flower  of  flowers  ? 


THE   ROYAL   LINEAGE   OF   COETTY.  401 

Supreme  Governor  of  the  county  halls  of  justice;*  but  the  Gamages 
are  the  Lords  of  the  Land ;  and  to  them  appertain  the  possessions, 
and  manorial  supremacy  of  the  estates.  Still,  as  already  stated, 
the  king  is  Lord  Paramount  of  the  courts  of  justice  and  of  the 
Seigniory. 

leuan  Deulwyn  says,  in  the  book  that  he  made  relating  to  the 
Lords  and  Knights  of  Glamorgan,  that  it  is  unjust  to  call  the  Tur- 
benrille  a  knight  of  spoliation,  seeing  that  he  married  the  daughter 
and  heiress  of  Morgan,  the  son  of  Meyryg,  the  owner  of  Coetty, 
and  thus  obtained,  by  heirship,  a  rightful  claim  to  the  property 
and  possession  both  in  the  sight*  of  God  and  man ;  and  that  it  sig- 
nifies not  to  what  nation  the  person  married  belongs,  if  professing 
the  Christian  Faith ;  having  received  belief  and  baptism.  The 
Tnrbervilles,  in  truth,  continued  very  friendly  to  the  Welsh, 
during  the  whole  time  that  they  possessed  the  seigniory  and  king- 
dom of  Coetty,  of  which  the  Gamages  were  deprived  in  the  time  of 
Sir  Richard  Began,  King  of  Glamorgan,  as  aforesaid;  but  although 
they  may  still  rightfully  exercise  authority  in  civil  and  criminal 
courts,  yet  they  are  not  entitled  to  prerogatives  in  the  National 
Assembly,  except  in  cases  of  appeal,  like  all  other  freebom  natives; 
for  superiority  and  legal  supremacy  can  appertain  only  to  the 
governing  Lord  of  Glamorgan;  no  one**s  voice  being  paramount 
to  his. 

In  the  time  of  the  last  Earl  of  Clare,  the  royal  authority  ceased 
in  the  lineage  of  lestyn,  in  the  territory  of  Aberavan ;  because 
they  avenged  the  murder  of  the  Lord  Llewellyn,  the  son  of  Grif- 
fith, of  North  Wales :  but  this  seizure  of  government  from  the 
Neath  and  Avan  family,  was  an  act  of  national  usurpation,  their 
royalty  being  the  last,  in  continuity,  of  any  in  Wales ;  and  no 
Lordship,  except  that  of  Coetty,  was  entitled  to  a  restrictive  voice 
in  their  enactments. 

These  two  Lordships,  in  fact,  remained  the  last  in  power,  like 
rekindling  brands,  to  preserve,  as  it  were,  from  extinction  the  in- 
herent rights  of  the  Welsh  race :  but  those  rights  we  eventually 
lost,  through  our  sins,  by  continuing  to  offend  God,  until  ven- 
geance and  degradation  deprived  us  of  our  power,  claims,  and 
rights  of  supreme  prerogatives ;  and  now  we  retain,  as  a  people, 
nothing  beyond  a  mere  name  and  our  language ;  but  we  ought  to 

1  It  would  be  difficult  to  identify  the  ^^King**  here  alluded  to,  the  Gamngcs 
having  possessed  Coetty  for  a  long  period. 


402  CHRONOLOGICAL    STANZAS. 

preserve  the  latter  free  from  corruptions ;  accustoming  onrseWes, 
through  its  medium,  to  all  sciences,  accomplishments,  and  benefi- 
cial institutions ;  so  as  to  regain  the  approbation  of  the  Almighty 
and  the  praise  of  men ;  that,  by  such  means,  the  Prophecy  of  the 
Bards  may  be  fulfilled,  which  declares  that  "  The  Gambro-BritoDS 
shall  yet  regain  their  territory,  their  rights,  and  their  crown,  and' 
still  be  the  supreme  nation  of  the  Island  of  Britain ;  and  so  con- 
tinue, while  the  world  shall  remain  a  world  f"*  and  let  every  one 
say — ^Amen !  so  be  it. 


CHRONOLOGICAL  STANZAS.» 

One  thousand  two  hundred  and  eighty,  with  two  superadded. 
When  fell,  gallant  War-Chief !  Llewellyn  of  Cambria  the  Sove- 
reign. 

leuan  Gethin,  the  son  of  leuan,  the  son  of  Lleison.     1420. 

One  thousand  three  hundred  and  eighteen,  when  ceasM  through 

oppression. 
The  ancestral  kingdom  of  Avan ;— of  time  immemorial. 

One  thousand  four  hundred  and  twelve, — ^sway  became  extinct  in 

Coetty. 
Then  vanishM  all  semblance  of  justice  to  Cambria  devoted. 

1  The  ancient  Welsh  stanza  of  the  verses  here  translated  is  called — ^^^Engl/n 
Unodl  Union,"  (direct  unirhythmic  stanza)  and  consists,  according  to  its  nioal 
structurey  of  four  lines ;  the  two  first  of  which,  wmeHmet^  constitate  a  per- 
fect Hexameter  verse, — and  the  other  two,  a  Pentameter.  But^  Welah  venai 
being  principally  regulated  by  accent  and  syllables^  instead  of  qtumiiip  and  dnljr 
arranged  feeU  the  resemblance  is  frequently  quite  defective.  KhyiiM  hai 
always  been  an  enjoined  feature  of  Welsh  poetiy ;  but^  in  the  oompotitioBi 
of  the  Primitive  Bards,  it  is,  in  some  portions,  perceptible  only  in  the  VMor- 
rence  of  the  same  votoel  in  corresponding  final  syllables.  Alliteration,  uodkr 
defined  rules,  is  a  characteristic  of  much  later  adoption  ;  but  yet  it  miui  be 
admitted  that  the  manifest  assonances  of  Aneurin  and  Taliesin  develope  its  in- 
cipiency.  Although  its  euphony  may  occasionally  gratify  the  ear,  still  its 
severe  restrictions  are  injurious  to  energetic  expressions  of  thought ;  haYÌng  a 
frequent  tendency  to  verbosity  and  anticlimax. 

Some  ancient  writers  on  Welsh  prosody  assert,  that  the  metn  vsriooly 
called— Toddaid  Byrr,  Toddaid  Englyn,  and  Toddaid  Tallesin,  ww  first 
formed,  in  the  sixth  century,  by  Taliesin,  Chief  of  the  Bards,  who,  firom 
many  Latin  expressions  that  occur  in  his  poems,  appears  to  have  known  that 


RHODEI  THE  GREAT's  CONSTITUTION.       403 

One  thousand  four  hundred,  when  Owen  raisM  nobly  his  falchion, 
To  cleave  to  nonentity  Britain'^s  fell  period  of  treason.^ 

leuan  Gethin,  the  son  of  leuan,  the  son  of  Lleison.    1420* 


BHODRI  THE  GREATS  CONSTITUTION  OF 
SOVEREIGNTY.» 

A  Kino  Paramount  is  a  monarch  placed  in  supreme  authority 
over  other  kings ;  his  voice  being  superior  to  theirs,  either  indi- 
TÌdually  or  collectively :  and  the  sovereign  whom  the  confedera- 
tion might  deem  the  wisest  and  bravest  of  all  the  allied  kings, 
was  the  personage  selected  for  this  supreme  dignity ;  and  to  him 
appertained  the  prerogative  of  Monarch  of  the  whole  Island  of  Bri- 
tain, and  of  all  its  kings. 

Bhodri  the  Great'^s  wife  was  Angharad,  the  daughter  of  Mey- 
ryg,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal,  the  son  of  Arthen,  the  son  of  Seisyllt, 
King  of  Dyved  and  Ceredigion.  They  had  four  children, — name- 
ly, a  daughter  called  Ellen,  the  first  bom,  who  married  Morgan 


lang^nage ;  and  this  Toddaid,  from  its  prosodial  structure,  seems  to  correspond 
with  Hexameter  verse,  from  which  it  probably  was  derived.  See  Cyfrinach 
y  Beirdd,  pp.  49,  76,  and  95  ;  also  p.  171,  where  the  Latin  origin  of  some  of 
the  metres  is  acknowledged  by  Simwnt  Vychan,  in  his  Institutes  of  Vocal 
Song,  confirmed  by  Voice  Conventional,  at  Caerwys,  in  1667.  See,  likewise, 
p.  212,  where  two  examples  of  Toddaid  Englyn  are  scanned,  with  the  follow- 
ing marginal  note,  in  explanation,  by  Edward  Williams. 

^Toddaid  Taliesin  yw  hwnn  a'r  nesaf ;  a  mesur  ydyw  a  elwir  Hexameter 
yn  Lladin." — Iolo  Moroanwo. 

That  18, — in  reference  to  the  instances  adduced, — 

**ThÌ8  and  the  next  example  belong  to  the  metre  called  Toddaid  Englyn, 
which  is  called,  in  Latin,  Hexameter.** — Edward  Williams. 

Purposing,  in  the  course  of  two  or  three  years,  to  realize  a  long  postponed 
intention  of  publishing,  with  a  prefatory  E^y  on  Welsh  Prosody,  the  curi- 
ous Grammar  of  Edeym  the  Golden-tongued,  composed  about  the  middle  of 
the  13th  century,  and  dedicated  to  the  three  reigning  princes  of  Wales  at  that 
period,  I  now  close  my  strictures  on  the  Toddaid  and  Englyn. 

'  In  the  foregoing  translation  some  distant  tendency  to  Hexameter  verse 
may,  possibly,  be  perceived. 

'  From  Thomas  Hopkin  of  Coychurch's  MS.,  one  of  Thomas  ab  Ivan  o 
Twbiyn's  numerous  volumes  of  transcripts.  See  Myv.  Arch.  voL  III.  p.  Ô, 
FrefiMe,  where  he  is  respectfoUy  noticed. 

3  r 


404  RHODRI   THE   GREAT'S   CONSTmjTION. 

the  Aged,  King  of  Glamorgan,  and  Prince  of  the  territory  between 
Gloucester  bridge  and  the  river  Towy ;  and  three  sons,  the  eldest 
of  whom  was  Cadell,  King  of  Dy  ved  and  Ceredigion ;  the  second 
— Anarawd,  King  of  North  Wales;  and  the  third — Mervyn, 
King  of  Powis. 

Rhodri  had,  also,  five  sons  by  a  concubine,  who  were — Rhodri 
the  Red,  Meyryg,  Eidwal,  Gwyriad,  and  Gathelig ;  and  also  two 
daughters, — Elgain  and  Creirwy. 

In  A.  D.  872,  Rhodri  the  Great  was  killed  by  the  Saxons  in 
Mona,  and  with  him,  his  son  Gwyriad, — and  also  Rhydderch,  the 
second  son  of  Morgan  the  Aged,  Prince  of  Glamorgan ;  who,  al- 
though then  but  fifteen  years  old,  fought  in  aid  of  his  grandfa- 
ther, the  said  Rhodri  the  Great. 

Rhodri  the  Great  divided  his  possessions  between  his  three  sons 
as  follows  :i — 

Cadell,  the  eldest  son,  had  the  province  of  Dinevor,  which  com- 
prised Dyved  [Dimetia]  and  Ceredigion  [Cardigan]  under  their 
respective  boundaries ;  and  to  him  appertained  the  sceptre  of  the 
Principality ;  a  pre-eminence  due  only  to  the  eldest  of  the  three 
Kings  of  Wales.  The  royal  court  of  Dyved  and  Ceredigion  was 
at  Caermarthen. 

Anarawd,  the  second  son,  had  Gwynedd  [North  Wales]  nnder 
its  boundaries ;  the  royal  court  being  at  Aberffraw.  Some  books 
assert  that  Anarawd  was  the  third,  that  is,  the  youngest  of 
the  sons. 

Mervyn,  the  third  son,  had  the  province  of  Mathraval,  that  is, 
all  Powis,  within  its  boundaries ;  the  royal  residence  being  at 
Pengwem  Powis,  that  is, — Shrewsbury. 

It  was  in  the  following  manner  that  Rhodri  the  Great  fixed  the 
seats  of  arbitration,  for  the  final  settlement  of  disputes,  whenever 
contentions  should  occur  between  any  of  the  three  provinces ;  vii. 

1  The  following  passage,  translated  from  Caradoc's  Chronicley  Myv,  Aieh. 
II.  p.  481,  supports  the  authenticity  of  the  documents  presented  in  the  text, 
respecting  Rhodri's  new  system  of  tripartite  government. 

*^  Rhodri  the  Great  instituted  a  new  system  of  government  in  Wale^  as  frr 
as  his  jurisdiction  extended ;  and  it  was  as  follows  : 

Ceredigion  he  gave  to  Cadell,  his  eldest  son  ;  his  court  to  be  at  Dinevor. 

North  Wales  he  gave  to  his  son  Anarawd ;  his  court  to  be  at  AberffiraiTy  ii 
Anglesea. 

Powis  he  gave  to  his  son  Mervyn ;  his  court  to  be  at  MathravaL  TIm 
eldest  of  these  he  enjoined  to  pay  a  tribute  to  the  Eling  of  London ;  and  to 
this  eldest  son  the  other  two  were,  each  of  them,  to  pay  tribute  also.    TImm 


RHODRI  THE  GREAT'S  CONSTITUTION.       405 

If  contention  arise  between  the  provinces  of  Dinevor  and  Aber- 
ffraw,  in  Mona,  the  seat  of  arbitration  shall  be  at  Bwlch-y-Pawl, 
on  Dovey-side ;  the  King  of  Powis  being  the  juridical  and  judicial 
president. 

If  contention  arise  between  the  Provinces  of  Mathraval  and 
Dinevor,  the  seat  of  arbitration  shall  be  at  Rhyd-helig,  on  the 
Wye ;  the  King  of  North  Wales  exercising  the  supreme  prero- 
gatives in  law  and  judgment. 

Should  contention  arise  between  the  provinces  of  ]Mathraval  and 
Aberffraw,  in  Mona,  the  seat  of  arbitration  shall  be  at  Dol-yr- 
Hunedd,  in  lal ;  the  King  of  Dinevor  to  exercise  supremacy  in 
law  and  judgment :  and  wherever  the  seat  of  arbitration  shall  be, 
there  shall  also  reside  the  aggregate  Sov^ereiguty  of  the  three  pro- 
vinces ;  which,  severally,  are  as  follows,  viz. — 

The  Sovereignty  of  Dinevor ; — consisting  of  King, — Lords  of 
the  court  and  tJirone, — and  Country,  which  implies  the  repre- 
sentation of  landed  proprietors  by  Heads  of  Kindred. 

The  Sovereignty  of  Aberffraw ; — consisting  of  Kino, — the  fif- 
teen tribes  of  North  Wales,  represented  by  their  Heads  op  Kin- 
dbed, — and  Justices  of  court. 

The  Sovereignty  of  Mathraval ; — consisting  of  King, — the  chief 
fSftmilies  of  Powis,  represented  by  Heads  op  Kindred, — and  Jus- 
tices of  court. 

The  Sovereignty  of  Wales  Paramount ;  consisting  of  the  Eld- 
est of  the  three  diademed  princes  ; — Enthroned  Kings,  and  their 
Stocks  op  Sovereignty,  or  the  inherence  by  which  sovereignty 
is  rendered  perfect.  But  a  Sovereign  Stock  is  not  of  the  same 
principle  in  each  of  tlie  three  provinces,  being,  to  some  extent, 
differently  constituted,  in  each,  as  already  shown. 

The  prerogative  of  the  Sovereignty  of  Wales  Paramount  is,  to 
select  the  wisest  and  bravest  of  its  kings,  to  be  instated  as  the  Predo- 
minant Prince,  and  Juridical  Chief  of  the  whole  Island  of  Britain. 

A  Head  of  Kindred  is  an  eMer  of  triNe,  kindred,  and  family, 
who  enjoys  thorough  enfraiitliiseineut;    and  one,   couse<jueutly, 

were  called  the  three  diademed  princes,  because  they,  contrary  to  all  that 
preceded  them,  wore  frontlets  about  their  crowns,  like  the  kings  of  other 
coantries  ;  whereas,  before  that  time,  the  kings  and  princes  of  the  Welsh  Na- 
tion wore  only  golden  chains.  Rhodri  settled  the  supreme  sovereignty  on 
the  eldest  of  the  diademed  princes  ;  with  a  request  and  commandment  that 
they  should  defend  and  protect  Cambria,  and  its  people,  against  all  assaults  of 
enemies,  and  against  all  anarchy  and  disorder." 


406  THE   FIVE  ROYAL   TRIBES   OP  WALES. 

whose  kindred,  of  the  same  family  and  tribe,  partake  of  his  prÌTÎ- 
leges  to  the  ninth  generation,  lineally  and  collaterally.  A  man  of 
thorough  enfranchisement  is  one  who  is  neither  mad  nor  imbecile ; 
neither  blind  nor  dumb ;  neither  deaf  nor  lame ;  nor  yet  one  of 
a  strange  tongue; — one  who  is  neither  unskilful  nor  unlearned; 
who  is  not  married  to  a  natural  alien,  and  who  is  not  a  con- 
demned criminal ;  one  who  is  not  liable  to  the  claìm^  of  retri- 
bution for  murder,  nor  yet  for  insult ;  and  who  has  not  fled  in 
the  day  of  hostility  and  battle:  but  he  is  one  who  knows  all 
the  usages  and  prerogatives  of  the  sovereignty  of  the  Island  of 
Britain,  and  the  privileges  of  every  freebom  Cambrian.  A  man 
thus  capacitated,  and  being  descended  from  elders  of  his  tribe  and 
family,  is  entitled  to  the  rank  of  Head  of  Kindred  in  the  supreme 
council  of  sovereignty  in  all  courts  of  country  and  kindred,  and  in 
all  courts  of  law  and  judgment. 

He  claims,  also,  the  position  of  father  to  every  fatherless  or- 
phan of  his  tribe,  kindred,  and  family  ;  and  it  appertains  to  him 
to  correct  all  the  transgressions  of  his  tribe  and  kindred,  without 
subjecting  himself,  thereby,  to  any  penalties  resulting  from  claims 
of  redress.  A  Head  of  Kindred  is  also  privileged  to  convoke  a 
jury  and  stir  up  a  gathering  of  country  and  kindred  on  any  law- 
ful occasion ;  and  no  authority  can  counteract  such  a  proceeding; 
for  the  integrity  of  sovereignty  depends  on  Heads  of  Kindred,  to 
whom  should  be  presented  every  appeal  against  wrong  and  molal- 
ity inflicted  on  any  of  their  kindred. 


THE  FIVE  ROYAL  TRIBES  OF  WALES.» 

Cadell,  the  son  of  Rhodri  the  Great,  in  South  Wales* 
Mervyn,  the  son  of  Rhodri  the  Great,  in  Powis. 
Anarawd,  the  son  of  Rhodri  the  Great,  in  North  Wales. 
Morgan  Mwynfawr,  in  Glamorgan. 
Elystan  Glodrydd,  between  the  Wye  and  the  Severn. 

Thus,  in  other  Books. 

Rhys,  the  son  of  Tewdwr,  in  South  Wales. 
GriflSth,  the  son  of  Cynan,  in  North  Wales. 

1  These  claims  are  distinctly  specified  in  the  Laws  of  Howel  DdA,r-See  thi 
Welsh  copy,  Myv.  Arch.  vol.  III.    Wotton's  Leges  Hoeli  Boni,  &c 
*  From  Thomas  Hopkin  of  Coychnrch's  MS. 


THE  PIVE   PRINCIPALITIES.  407 

Bleddyn,  the  son  of  Cynvyn,  in  Powis. 

lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  in  Glamorgan. 

Elystan  Glodrydd,  between  the  Wye  and  the  Severn. 


THE  CONSTITUENT    ESTATES  OF  SOVEREIGNTY, 

IN  EACH  OF  THE  FIVE  PRINCIPALITIES  OF  WALES  ;i  VIZ. 

The  Sovereignty  of  South  Wales : — A  Kino  of  genuine  stock ; 
Lords  of  the  court  and  throne ;  and,  Country  and  Kindred,  re- 
presented by  Heads  of  Kindred  possessing  lands. 

The  Sovereignty  of  Glamorgan  : — A  Lord  of  supreme  jurisdic- 
tion, being  a  Kino  of  genuine  stock ; — Twelve  Sessional  Lords 
(at  least)  of  court  and  state,  with  any  additional  number  that 
may  be ; — and  Barons,  that  is,  freeholders,  represented  by  their 
HsADS  OF  Kindred. 

The  Sovereignty  of  Powis : — A  Lord  of  supreme  jurisdiction, 
being  a  Kmo ;  the  lineages  of  Powis,  represented  bytheir  Heads 
OF  Kindred  ; — and  Justices  of  court  and  high  sessions. 

The  Sovereignty' of  Aberffraw: — A  King;  the  fifteen  tribes  of 
North  Wales,  represented  by  their  Heads  of  Kindred  ;  and  Jus- 
tices of  court  and  high  sessions. 

The  Sovereignty  between  the  Wye  and  Severn : — A  King;  the 
freeholders  of  the  country,  represented  by  their  Heads  of  Kin- 
dred ;  and  Justices  of  court,  with  a  Jury  of  twelve. 

The  Paramount  Sovereignty : —  The  oldest  Sovereign  of  the 
three  diademed  princes ;  that  is,  those  of  North  Wales,  Powis, 
and  South  Wales :  and  this  Monarch  has  the  prerogative  of  hold- 
ing a  convention  of  Wales  generally,  within  the  three  provinces. 

Supremacy  in  jurisprudence  becomes  the  prerogative  of  the 
Prince  of  Glamorgan,  when  the  necessity  occurs  of  opposing  the 
approach  of  enemies  and  aggression  in  South  Wales;  in  which 
case,  the  right  of  presidency  in  council,  devolves  on  the  Prince 
between  the  Wye  and  the  Severn, — and  the  Prince  of  Powis  ac- 
quires the  supreme  military  command ; — for  these  princes,  from 
the  relative  situations  of  their  respective  countries,  can  best  judge 
of  the  proximate  causes  and  position  of  the  irruption,  when  it  takes 
place  by  land ;  but  if  the  invasion  come  by  sea,  the  prerogative  of 
supremacy  in  jurisprudence  shall  appertain  to  the  prince  of  that 
püticular  district   (whether  North  or  South  Wales)  where  the 

1  From  Thomas  Hopkin's  MS. 


408  THE  FIVE   PRINCIPALITIES. 

aggression  shall  disembark ;  and  the  other  of  those  two  princes 
shall  simultaneously  become  president  of  the  council. 

When  an  invasion  takes  place  by  land,  some  say  that  supre- 
macy in  jurisprudence  rests  exclusively  between  the  Princes  of 
Glamorgan  and  Powis ;  the  precedence  of  either,  in  this  respect,  to 
be  determined  according  as  the  territory  invaded  may  be  within 
the  dominion  of  the  one  or  the  other  of  them.  But  on  wliichever 
of  them  this  right  may  devolve,  the  other  shall  immediately  become 
president  of  the  council ;  no  mention  being  made  of  any  preroga- 
tive appertaining  to  the  house  of  Elystan  Glodrydd. 

The  prerogatives  of  supreme  sovereignty,  an<l  organizing  an  as- 
semblage of  all  Wales,  do  not  appertain  to  the  Prince  of  Glamor^ 
gan,  who  exercises  such  rigJits  only  within  Glamorgan,  Gwent,  and 
Gower,  with  their  dependencies ;  and  the  tribe  of  EUystan  Glod- 
rydd is  similarly  circumscribed. 

No  one  of  the  three  diademed  princes  is  entitled  to  exercise 
the  power  of  paramount  sovereignty  over  either  Glamorgan  or  the 
territory  of  Elystan  Glodrydd. 

Upon  any  hostile  invasion  of  Wales,  the  prerogatives  of  para- 
mount sovereignty,  and  assembling  of  the  country,  shall  be  vested 
in  the  more  distant  from  the  irruption  of  the  two  aforesaid  dia- 
demed princes ;  that  is,  those  of  North  Wales  and  South  Wales; 
their  countries  being  the  most  powerful  and  secure  states;  and,  of  the 
two,  the  more  distant  from  the  aggression,  being  the  safer.  But 
when  one  of  these  two  princes  becomes  the  supreme  sovereigB, 
the  other  assumes  the  precedence  of  chief  elder :  the  dominions  of 
Elystan  Glodrydd  and  Glamorgan  being  entitled  to  a  Yoice  in  the 
confederate  council. 

If  the  hostile  aggression  come  by  sea  from  a  foreign  coantrj, 
the  prerogative  of  paramount  sovereignty  shall  l)e  vested  in  the 
King  of  England ;  for  he  is  the  richest  and  most  powerful  of  all 
the  kings ;  and  also  the  greatest  military  commander ;  Imt,  un- 
der such  circumstances,  each  of  the  kings  of  the  Island  of  Britain 
sliall  be  entitled  to  give  his  advice  in  the  assembly  of  the  King  of 
England,  whose  command,  however,  shall  govern  them  all  in  repd- 
ling  the  approach  of  foreign  foes  in  aggressive  war. 

This  system  was  instituted  in  the  time  of  Edirar,  King  of  the 
Saxons,  by  the  concurrent  enactment  of  the  Five  Boyal  Tribes  of 
Wales,  in  confederate  council.* 

^This  extended  "Constitution  of  Sovereignty,"  appears  to  have  be» 
adopted  by  Glamorgan,  and  Elystan  Glodrydd's  district  between  the  Wjt 


THE  AEMS  OF  THE  CHIEFTAINS^ 

WHO  WERE  DISPOSSESSED  OF  THEIR  LANDS  AND  GOODS,  BY  SIR 
ROBERT  FITZHAMON,  AND  HIS  KNIGHTS  OF  SPOLIATION. 


1.  Iestyn,  the  son  of  Owrgan,  King  of  Glamorgan,  and  Prince 
of  the  country  extending  from  the  river  Towy  to  Gloucester  bridge, 
[Prince  of  Glamorgan,  Gwent,  and  Ewyas,]  who  bore,  or,  three 
chevronels,  /JSS.  [who  bore  three  chevronels,  arpent^]  and  died  at 
Keynsham  Monastery,  which  he  had  endowed  with  lands  and 
property  in  Wentloog ;  his  aire  being  one  hundred  and  twenty- 
six  years.     [One  hundred  and  twenty  years.] 

2.  Marchell,  the  son  of  Gwynn,  the  son  of  Arthrwys,  the  son 
of  Ithel,  the  son  of  Morgan  the  Great,  Lord  of  St.  Tathan,*  who 
bore,  azure^  three  merles,  or,  [«aftfo.] 

3.  Griffith,  the  son  of  Cadwgan  Ddu,  Lord  of  St.  Brides 
Major  and  Ogmore,  who  bore,  sabUy  three  two-headed  eagles, 
argent. 

4.  Llewelyn,  the  son  of  Howel  Vawr,  Lord  of  Llanilary  [St. 
Hilary]  and  Llanblethian  Major,  who  bore,  argent^  six  spear 
heads,  murrey ;  points  imbrued. 

5.  Caradog,  the  son  of  Arthen,  the  son  of  Bleiddryn,  Lord  of 
Glyn  Neath,  who  bore,  «aifo,  a  chevron,  or,  between  three  lions'* 
heads,  argent^  langued,  gules. 

and  the  Severn,  at  the  above  council  of  all  the  Welsh  Princes,  held  in  the 
time  of  Edgar,  merely  as  comprising  a  system  of  mutual  defence ;  for  the 
mode  of  Government  it  prescribes  for  Glamorgan,  seems  to  accord  with  Mor- 
gan Mwynfawr's  institution. 

>  From  Mr.  Cobb  of  CardifTs  MS. — The  readings  given  between  brackets^ 
are  from  a  transcript  in  one  of  Mr.  Truman  of  Pantlliwydd's  MSS. 

Whether  armorial  bearings  were  usual  at  the  period  of  Fitzliamon*s  aggres- 
sion in  Glamorgan,  is  a  consideration  that  involves  some  difference  of  opinion, 
even  among  persons  of  high  authority  on  the  subject. 

'The  name  of  this  place  has  undergone  so  many  changes,  (St.  Athan,  St. 
Athans,  St.  Athen,  St.  Athens,  &c.)  that,  to  rescue  the  glorious  capital  of 
Ancient  Greece  from  misplaced  apotheosis,  I  have  given,  in  the  translation,  in 
the  above  instance,  the  original  name — Tathan,  one  of  the  early  Welsh  Saints, 
to  whom  the  church  of  this  parish  was  primarily  dedicated ;  a  name  that  is 
still  retained  by  the  inhabitants,  who  always  call  the  pariah,  in  Welsh,  San' 
Tathan. 


410         THE  ARMS  OF  THE  CHIEFTAINS. 

6.  Aedd,  the  son  of  Oraffnaw,  the  son  of  Cynvarth,  Lord  of 
Tal-y-vann,  who  bore,  gvles^^  three  battle  axes,  or,  [osTurd.] 

7.  Idnerth,  the  son  of  Ivor,  Lord  of  Glyn  Bhondda,  who  bore, 
aaure^  six  mullets,  or. 

8.  Llewelyn  Bren  the  Elder,  called  Llewelyn  Hagr,  Lord  of 
Senghenydd,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  Llewelyn,  the  son  of 
Ivor,  the  son  of  Einion,  the  son  of  Bhiallon,  the  son  of  Selyr,  the 
son  of  David,  the  son  of  Morgan,  the  son  of  Malcolm,  Prince  of 
Scotland;  he  bore,  or^  a  chevron,  azure^  between  three  nags^  heads, 
gtde8. 

9.  Ynyr,  the  son  of  Rhydwal,  the  son  of  Meyryg,  Lord  of  Jl»- 
kin,  who  bore,  sable^  a  bend,  or^  charged  yrith  six  hawks^  heads, 
(urgent. 

10.  Gweirydd,  the  son  of  Seisyllt  the  Aged,  Lord  of  Llancar- 
van  and  Penmark,  who  bore,  sable^  three  stags'*  heads,  or,  [gẁi 
arbourM.]  Seisyllt  the  Aged  lived  to  the  age  of  one  hundred  and 
eighty-one  years. 

11.  Meyryg,  the  son  of  Howel,  the  son  of  Elgad,  Lord  of  St 
Pagans,  who  bore,  from  St.  Pagan,  «iŵfe,  three  keys,  wr.  Other 
books  say — three  keys,  argent.  [Argent,  otherwise,  or,  as  may  be 
seen  in  some  books.] 

12.  Gaeron,  the  son  of  Howel,  the  son  of  Elgad,  Lord  of  Llan- 
maes  juxta  Llantwit  Major,  who  bore,  azure,  [scMel  three  castle 
portals,  open,  or.      He  lived  to  be  135  years  old. 

13.  Morgan,  the  son  of  Howel,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  Lord  of 
Bhuthin,  who  bore,  scŵle,  six  acorns,  or. 

14.  Gwyddbwyll,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son 
of  Ynyr,  Lord  of  Aber-Barry  and  Porthkery,  who  bore,  asmn, 
[sable]  from  Ceri  of  the  extensive  navy,  three  mast-heads,  or. 

16.*  Einion  Vawr,  the  son  of  Uthrod  Goch,  the  son  of  He- 
gwryd  the  Aged,  the  son  of  Owen,  Lord  of  Llanwerydd,  [the 
son  of  Blegwryd  the  Aged,  Lord  of,  &c.]  that  is,  of  St.  Donats, 
who  bore,  gtUes,  three  cocks,  or.  Other  books  say,  three  hfaOy 
salient,  or. 

17.  Meirchion  Hir,  the  son  of  Griffith,  the  son  of  Ithel,  Lord 


1  The  colour  here  rendered  gules,  is,  in  most  instances,  expressed  by  the  teim 
sinobl  (cinnabar)  in  the  Welsh  text. 

'  A  chasm  occurs  here ; — No.  16  being  omitted.  No.  14  is  left  out  in  ti» 
PantUiwydd  MS.,  where  Gwyddbwyll  occurs  the  loth  in  order;  bat,t]MDM- 
forward,  the  names  correspond  in  order  in  both  transcripts* 


THE   ARMS   OF  THE   CHIEFTAINS.  411 

Ithel,  Lord  of  Sigginston  and  Landow,  who  bore,  quarterly,  or 
and  guleSy  four  helmets,  azure  and  argent^  [four  helmets,  argent.'] 

18.  Llewelyn,  the  son  of  Meyryg,  the  son  of  Llywarch,  Lord  of 
Bhoos  andTonmon,  (Aberbernant  in  al.  lolo  Morganwg.)  who 
bore,  azwre^  six  trefoils,  or. 

19.  Braint,  the  son  of  Meredith  Falch,  the  son  of  Engir  Ben- 
-wyn,  Lord  of  St.  Mary-Church  and  St.  Michaers-on-the-Hill, 
Ç.  e.  Flemingston.)  (St.  MichaelVon-the-Hill,  in  al.  lolo  Mor- 
yonwg.)  [St.  Mary  Church  and  Flemingston]  who  bore,  tert^  six 
oess,  CTm 

20.  Arthael  Frych,  Lord  of  Lyswomey  and  Colwinston,  who 
bore,  êoblê^  two  spears,  saltier,  or. 

2L  David,  the  son  of  Owen  Goch,  the  son  of  Ithel,  Lord  of 
Uangynwyd  and  Tir  larll,  who  bore,  sable^  a  chevron,  argent^  be- 
tween three  wolves'*  heads,  or^  snouts,  gouttés  de  sang. 

22.  Howel,  the  son  of  GriflSth,  the  son  of  Anawrodd,  the  son  of 
Blegwryd  the  Aged,  Lord  of  Dyffryn  Goluch*  and  Wenvoe,  who 
lK>re,  quarterly,  or  and  sable^  four  shafts,  argent  and  azure. 

23.  Edwin,  the  son  of  Trahayam,  the  son  of  Ithel,  Lord  of 
Oonan'^s  Castle  and  Sovlen,  who  bore,  argent^  \tert]  six  roses,  gules. 

The  above  Chieftains  were  dispossessed  of  the  greater  part  of 
their  lands  and  goods :  but  Sir  Robert  Fitzhamon  gave  lands  to 
some  of  them,  at  Corboil,  and  other  places,  in  France ;  others  had 
small  portions  of  their  lands  restored  to  them.^ 


*  The  original  name  (Dyffiyn  Goluch,  or  Valley  of  Worship)  of  this  place, 
now  the  hospitable  seat  of  John  Bruce  Pryce,  Esq.,  is,  with  regard  to  its 
dmidic  designation,  Goluchy  derived  from  two  ancient  Celtic  expressions  for 
hghif^ffawl  and  üuchy  which  have  long  become  obsolete  as  Welsh  primitives ; 
bat  are  still  retained,  with  increments,  in  such  words  as  ^o/áu,  (light) 
and  Bucked f  (lightning)  hence  it  is  that  corrupt  forms  of  it  have  been  suc- 
oeanvely  given  ;  one  of  which  occurs  in  the  Welsh  text. 

<  The  instances  of  inconsistency,  observable  in  the  above  blazonry,  may  be 
iairlj  attributed  to  the  incompetency  of  former  transcribers  to  supply  the  de- 
fects of  injured  manuscripts. 


3   G 


THE  PERIODS  OF  ORAL  TRADITION  AND 
CHRONOLOGY. 

Here  follow  the  periods  of  oral  tradition  and  chronology,  accor- 
ding to  the  system  of  the  bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  relating 
to  oral  and  chronological  computations  before  the  introduction  of 
the  Christian  Faith  among  the  Cimbric  nation;  after  which,  the 
incarnation  of  Christ  became  the  commencing  period  of  chrondo- 
gical  order,  as  it  now  exists  throughout  Christendom. 

From  the  time  that  the  Cimbric  nation  first  arrived  in  the  la- 
land  of  Britain,  to  the  period  of  Evrawc  the  Mighty,  the  son  of 
Mymbyr,  the  son  of  Madawc,  five  hundred  years ;  according  to 
the  preserved  memorials  and  informations  of  the  wÌBe.  This 
Evrawc  was  the  first  who  constructed  fortresses  in  Britain,  name- 
ly_The''city  of  &c.^ 

From  the  time  of  Evrawc  the  Mighty,  to  the  period  when  Lleon 
the  Mighty  was  made  king  of  the  Cimbric  nation,  one  hundred 
and  ninety  years.  He  constructed  a  city  on  the  banks  of  the 
Dee,  and  called  it  Caerlleon  Major.^  He  dso  built  Gaerlleon  upoD 
Usk,  in  Glamorgan,  and  the  city  of  Mane,  the  situation  of  ^ich 
is  now  unknown.     In  his  time  a  scorching  heat  occurred. 

From  the  time  of  Lleon  the  Mighty,  to  the  period  of  Blei- 
ddyd,  the  son  of  Rhun  Baladr-bras,  sixty-six  years.  This  Blei- 
ddyd  discovered  the  warm  bath  at  Nant-Baddon,'  and  taught 
many  beneficial  sciences  to  the  Cimbric  nation,  which  are  attested 
in  history. 

From  the  time  of  Bleiddyd,  the  son  of  Rhun,  to  that  of 
Llyr  Llwyd,  his  son,  twenty  years.  That  Llyr  constructed 
Caer-Lyr,  and  Caer-Eithras,  in  Gwent,  which  is  now  called 
Brynbuga.* 

From  the  time  of  Llyr  Llwyd,  to  that  of  Prydain,  the  son  of 
Aedd  the  Great,  the  son  of  Ancwn,  the  son  of  Seisyllt,  the  son  of 
Rhiwallon,  the  son  of  Rhegan,  the  daughter  of  Llyr  Llwyd,  two 
hundred  and  eighty-seven  years.  This  Prydain  was  the  first  who 
instituted  a  powerful  system  of  Sovereignty  in  Britain.     He  was 

1  Sic  in  MS,  «Chester.  «Bath.  *  Usk. 


ORAL   TRADITION   AND   CHRONOLOGY.  413 

a  potent,  wise,  and  merciful  king,  and  sole  monarch  of  the  Island. 
He  introduced  many  sciences,  and  much  knowledge,  to  the  Cim- 
bric  nation  ;  and  lived  eighty-seven  years  after  he  was  made  king. 

From  Prydain,  the  son  of  Aedd  the  Great,  to  the  time  of  Dyvn- 
yarth  Prydain,  called  Dyvnwal  Moelmud  (Dunwallo  Moelmutius) 
in  the  Cornish  Language,  twenty-nine  years.  It  was  this  Dyvn- 
yarth  who  first  organized  the  laws  of  the  Cimbric  nation;  ordaining 
high  immunities,  and  severe  penalties,  according  to  various  deserts. 
He  is  called  one  of  the  Three  wise  Kings  of  Britain;  and  he  estab- 
lished a  national  and  municipal  government  at  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk, 
the  capital  of  all  Britain,  granting  it  a  right  of  barter  in  [all  the 
other  cities  of  the  Island. 

From  the  time  of  Dyvnwal  Moelmud  to  that  of  Gwrgan  Varv- 
drwch,  the  son  of  Beli,  the  son  of  Arthan,  the  son  of  Pyll  Hir, 
the  son  of  Beli  Hen,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Moelmud,  one  hundred 
and  twenty-eight  years.  In  the  time  of  the  said  Gwrgan,  an 
awfully  tempestuous  inundation  occurred  in  the  British  seas,  that 
engolphed  a  large  portion  of  the  Lowland  Cantred;*  and  in  con- 
sequence of  this  deluge,  the  Irish^  first  came  into  the  Island  of 
Britain,  and  received  of  Gwrgan  lands  in  Ireland,  where  they  be- 
came a  numerous  and  powerful  people.  In  his  time,  also,  the  men 
of  Llychlyn'  (Scandinavia)  came  first  to  Britain,  and  obtained  the 
means  of  subsistence  in  Albania,^  where  they  have  remained  to 
this  day.  He  built  a  city  called  Caerwerydd,  where  he  resided, 
a  praise-worthy  king,  for  nineteen  years ;  and  there  he  died. 

From  the  death  of  Gwrgan  Varvdrwch  to  the  time  of  Morydd, 
the  son  of  Daned,  the  son  of  Aeddan,  the  son  of  Cynvarch,  the  son 
of  Seisyllt,  the  son  of  Eidrym,  the  son  of  Cyhelyn,  the  son  of  Gwr- 


>  This  Lowland  Cantred  is  said  to  have  been  situated  where  Cardigan  Bay 
now  extends.  See  Price's  "  Hanes  Cymru,"  p.  ÍÎ12,  &c.,  where  the  tradition, 
both  real  and  fictitious,  of  this  inundation,  is  judiciously  examined. 

*The  expression  of  the  Welsh  text  is  "Gwyddyl,"  (Woodmen)  which  is 
the  term  generally  used  for  Irishmen,  when  the  name  of  no  other  nation  is 
mttAched  to  it.  Gwerddoniaid,  and  Gwerddonwys,  (Green-Islanders)  are,  in 
flome  few  instances,  to  be  seen  ;  but  they  probably  apply  only  to  the  primi- 
tÌTe  Irish. 

^Lijfchlyn  has,  by  most  translators,  been  rendered — Scandinavia  ; — perhaps 
the  best  general  name  that  can  be  substituted  ;  for  the  Llychlynwys,  (Loch- 
lynians)  appear  to  have  came  to  Britain  from  diftereut  parts  of  Northern 
Europe.    It,  however,  frequently  applies,  as  Price  observes,  only  to  Norway. 

«Sootlaiul 


414  ORAL  TRADITION 

gan  Varvdrwch,  two  hundred  and  four  years.  It  was  in  the  tune 
of  this  Morjdd  that  an  enormously  huge  four-winged  monster  ap- 
peared in  the  Irish  Sea,  and  landed  in  Dyved,  where  it  kilkd 
many  of  the  Gimhric  nation ;  but  Morydd,  being  resolyed  to  fi^t 
with  it,  dared  it  manfully.  The  monster,  however,  killed  the 
king  with  a  quill  that  it  darted  at  him  from  its  wing. 

From  the  time  that  Morydd  was  killed  by  the  monster,  to  the 
period  of  Owen  and  Peredur,  the  sons  of  that  Morydd,  forty-seven 
years.  These  two  brothers  constructed  a  magnificent  city,  called 
Gaer  Brodyr,  (the  city  of  the  Brothers)  but,  in  about  seven  yean 
after,  Owen  died,  and  Peredur,  his  brother,  governed,  solely,  the 
entire  Island,  for  the  space  of  two  years,  when  he  died. 

From  the  death  of  Peredur,  the  son  of  Morydd,  to  the  time  of 
King  Blegywryd,  one  hundred  and  eighteen  years.  This  Bleg- 
ywryd  improved  the  science  of  instrumental  song,  and  formed  the 
rules  of  its  several  parts,  in  which  no  one  could  equal  him.  He 
was  buried  magificently  at  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk. 

From  Blegywryd's  time  to  that  of  Beli  Mawr,  the  son  of 
Manogan,  seventy-nine  years.  Beli  was  a  sensible,  and  learned 
king,  being  well  versed  in  many  sciences,  which  he  taught  to 
the  Gimbri ;  but  he  died  at  the  end  of  two  years  after  his  coro- 
nation. He  had  a  son  called  Lludd,  the  son  of  Beli  Mawr,  the 
son  of  Manogan,  who  constructed  a  city  of  wonderous  fortifications, 
on  the  bank  of  the  river  Tain,  (Thames)  and  called  it  Caerlndd, 
now  known  as  the  Gity  of  London.  Beli  had  another  son  called 
Gaswallon. 

From  the  time  of  Beli  the  Great,  to  that  of  Llyr  Llediaith, 
one  hundred  and  twenty  years.  This  Llyr  had  a  son  called 
Bran  the  Blessed,  who  was  the  largest  man  that  ever  was  seen; 
he  was  also  the  mildest  and  most  liberal  in  his  gifts,  and  the  most 
heroic  in  battle  and  exigency.  He  drove  the  Irish  out  of  his  coun- 
try, where  they  had  remained  from  the  time  of  Gwrgan  Varv- 
drwch, and  made  a  city  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Looghor, 
which  he  called  Dinmorvael,  from  the  name  of  his  uavoorite  dao^ 
ter,  who  died  there ;  and  where  he  subsequently  erected  a 
church,  which  was  called  Llanmorvael;  but  now  its  name  is 
Loughor  Gastle. 

From  the  time  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr,  to  that  of  Lies,  the 
son  of  Goel,  the  son  of  Gyllin,  the  son  of  Caractacus,  the  b<»i  of 
Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  one  hundred  and  ten 
years.   This  Lies  was,  also,  called  Saint  Lleirwg,  (St.  Lucius)  and 


AND    CHEONOLOGY.  415 

Llenfer  Mawr,  (the  Great  Luminarj;)  and  it  was  he  who  sent  for 
godly  men  from  Rome,  to  teach  Christianity  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the  country.  It  was  he,  also,  who  first  erected  a  church  at  Llandaff, 
and  placed  bishops  there,  to  administer  the  rite  of  baptism.  This 
was  the  first  of  our  Christian  Churches,  and  the  most  exalted  in 
privileges.  Lucius,  also,  instituted  schools  there  to  teach  the 
Faith  in  Christ,  and  a  knowledge  of  Cambro-British  books. 

From  the  time  of  Lucius  to  that  of  Coel  Godebog,  one  hundred 
and  forty  years.  This  Coel  was  a  king,  whose  daughter,  named 
Eillen  Lueddawg,  went  to  Jerusalem,  where  she  found  the  Holy 
Cross,  which  she  brought  with  her  to  Britain;  as  the  Bard  has 
recorded  in  the  following  stanza : — 

When  Coel's  fair  daughter,  Ellen,  found,  with  toil, 
The  Holt  Cboss,  on  Canaan'^s  guilty  soil. 
And  thence  to  Britain  bore  it, — ^faith-elate, — 
Three  hundred  years  and  twenty  told  the  date. 

From  Coel  Godebog  to  the  time  of  Maximus,  Sovereign  Elect, 
one  hundred  and  twelve  years.  This  Maximus  was  Emperor  of 
Britain  and  Bome,  and  conferred  on  Britain  the  rights  and  prero- 
gatives of  Sovereignty.  He  founded  also  many  churches  and 
cathedrals  for  religious  worship  in  this  Island,  in  which  instruction, 
both  religious  and  national,  was  imparted ;  and  ho  gave  lands  and 
privileges  to  the  British  population  of  Armorica,  with  Cynan 
Meriadog  for  their  prince,  to  whom  resorted  twenty  thousand 
British  inhabitants,  exclusive  of  women  and  children,  and  there 
they  have  remained  to  this  day. 

From  the  time  of  Coel  Godebog  to  that  of  Constantius,  the  son  of 
Constantino,  the  son  of  Aldwr  King  of  Armorica,  sixty  years. 
But  because  he  [Constantius]  was  not  a  prince  in  lineal  descent  from 
any  of  the  British  families,  they  refused  him  for  their  king,  and 
denied  him  their  homage;  Vortigern  being  their  leader,  wh,o 
killed  him  in  treachery  and  ambush,  and  invited  the  Saxons  to  his 
aid  in  Britain ;  on  whom  he  bestowed  lands,  wealth,  and  privileges 
in  the  Island;  namely, — the  lands  of  Roman  patricians  in  the 
Island  of  Thanet  in  Kent,  and  in  other  districts ;  the  consequence 
being,  that  the  Saxons  have  remained  hero  until  this  day ;  thus 
becoming  one  of  the  Three  predatory  invasions  of  Britain.  In  the 
time  of  this  Constantius,  Saint  Teilaw  was  Archbishop  of  Britain  ; 


416  ORAL  TRADITION  AND  CHRONOLOGY. 

and  he  converted  many  of  the  pagans  to  Ghristianit j,  and  brougfaii 
under  the  permission  and  protection  of  the  king,  two  godly  biflhops 
to  this  Island; — ^namely, — G^rmanus  and  Lupus,  to  renew  and 
promote  Faith,  Baptism,  and  Sacred  EInowledge: — Merlin  pro* 
phesying. 

From  the  time  of  Constantius  to  that  of  Vortimer  the  Blessed, 
twenty-one  years. 

From  Vortimer  the  Blessed  to  the  time  of  the  Emperor  Arthur, 
fifty  thrŵ  years : — Taliesin  prophesying. 

From  the  time  of  the  Emperor  Arthur  to  that  of  Cadwahder 
the  Blessed,  one  hundred  and  sixty  years ;  and  Gadwalader  was 
the  last  king  of  Britain  descended  from  the  primitive  royal  line- 
age of  the  Island,  until  it  was  restored  in  the  person  of  Heniy 
VII.  who  is  the  present  king,  whom  may  God  defend ;  Amen. 

From  the  time  of  Gadwalader  the  Blessed  to  that  of  Bhodri,  the 
son  of  Idwal,  thirty-seven  years.  Bhodri  fought  with  the  Sal- 
ons, and  slew  them  unsparingly. 

From  Rhodri,  the  son  of  Idwal,  to  the  time  of  Bhodri  the  Great, 
the  son  of  Mervyn  the  Freckled,  ninety-seven  years.  This  Rho- 
dri divided  Wales  into  three  parts.^ 

From  Rhodri  the  Great,  the  son  of  Mervyn,  to  the  time  of  Ho- 
wel.  King  of  all  Wales,  ninety-seven  years.  This  Howel  gave 
wise  and  just  laws  to  the  Welsh  nation,  and  ordained  that  chrono- 
logical records  should  be  dated  from  the  year  of  Christ  the  son  of 
God'^s  incarnation,  as  it  is  at  this  day. 

And  thus  has  information  been  retained  of  the  periods  of  tradi- 
tionary and  chronological  computations,  and  of  their  respectife 


1  The  origin  of  the  terms  Waks  and  Wdsh  will  not  be  here  diseoBsed ;  •!• 
though  they  might,  perhaps,  be  traced  to  other  causes  than  those  UBoallj 
advanced.  As,  however,  they  do  not  appear  to  have  been  applied  to  any 
British  state  and  its  inhabitants  before  the  Saxon  invasion,  they  have  beei 
generally  rejected  in  this  volume,  except  in  association  with  events  subseqiNDt 
to  that  period.  Whatever  differences  of  opinion  may  exist  with  regwd  to 
the  asserted  extinction,  at  early  periods,  of  the  Cimbri  of  continental  nations^ 
the  term  Cymmry,  by  which  the  aborigines  of  the  Island  have,  in  andent  Bri- 
tish records,  been  designated,  may  justly  be  deemed  synonymous  with  CMri 
We  very  rarely  find  the  expression  Prydeiniaid  (Britons)  applied  to  the  in- 
habitants of  this  country  by  any  Cambro-British  writer  ;  although  the  Island 
has  always  been  named  Prydain  by  them ;  hence  we  may  conclude  that  iti 
first  colonists  were,  like  their  ancestors,  called  Cymnvry^  in  their  former  eomi- 
triee ;  and  it  is  the  only  term  by  which,  through  successive  ages,  they  appear 
to  have  always  designated  themselves  here  in  their  vernacular  tongue. 


J 


REMARKABLE   OCCURRENCES.  417 

annalB ;  the  whole  having  been  verified  by  a  scrutinizing  investi- 
gation of  the  accounts  of  memorable  times  and  their  events ;  com- 
memorations that  are  deemed  genuine,  being  deduced  both  from 
the  oral  and  recorded  histories  of  ancient  wise  men  and  literary 
authorities.  And  the  result  is, — ^that  from  the  first  arrival  of  the 
Gimbri  in  this  Island,  according  to  well  digested  tradition  and 
chronology,  to  the  time  of  Howel  the  Good,  a  period  of 'no  less 
than  two  thousand  five  hundred  and  seven  years  has  elapsed;  and 
from  the  time  of  Howel  the  Good  to  this  present  year  of  the  coro- 
nation of  King  Henry  VII.*  the  son  of  Edmond,  the  son  of  Owen 
Tudor,  (all  of  them  being  genuine  Britons  of  the  primitive  royal 
Imeage)  five  hundred  and  forty-five  years.  So  that  from  the  first 
arrival  of  the  primitive  Britons  in  this  Island,  to  the  present  year, 
three  thousand  and  fifty-two  years  have  intervened. 


A  CHRONOLOGICAL  ACCOUNT 

OF  TIMES  AND  REMARKABLE    OCCURRENCES;  THAT  IS.  OF  WARS 

AND  WONDERFUL  EVENTS;  AND  OF  DISTINGUISHED 

PERSONS  AND  CIRCUMSTANCES.' 


In  the  year  of  Christ  55,  the  Camhro-Britons  received  the 
Christian  Faith,  and  believed  in  God ;  at  which  time  they,  also, 
first  acquired  a  knowledge  of  the  Latin  language. 

In  154,  Baptism  was  first  introduced  into  Britain;  and  churches 
and  bishops  were  instituted  through  the  endowments  of  Lucius 
and  pope  Elutherius. 

In  180,  the  church  of  Llandafi*  was  first  founded ;  Lucius,  the 
son  of  Coel,  called,  also,  the  Great  Luminary,  being  the  bishop 
there,  to  promulgate  Belief  and  Baptism. 

In  210,  the  Emperor  Soverus  constructed  the  great  rampai*t  in 
the  north,  to  frustrate  the  irruptions  of  the  Irish  Picts  and  the 
Lochlynians. 


'  From  this  it  appears  that  the  brief  account  here  concluded  was  compiled 
hi  the  year  1485. 

•  Taken  from  Watkin  Giles  of  Pen-y-Vai's  MS.,  which  was  a  transcript 
from  one  of  Caradoc  of  Llancarvan*s  Chronicles. 


418  REMARKABLE   OCCURRENCES. 

In  218,  all  the  reptiles,  cattle,  and  horses  of  Britain  died,  in 
consequence  of  wet  seasons,  ungeniality,  and  the  sickly  tempenh 
ture  of  the  atmosphere. 

In  220,  a  severe  frost  occurred,  which  caused  nomerons  deaths, 
among  persons  and  animals,  through  the  intensity  of  the  cold. 

In  240,  a  severe  sickness  prevailed ;  and  many  died  of  the 
pestilence. 

In  242,  Gaerlleon  upon  XJsk  was  rebuilt  of  stone  and  mortar, 
which,  jfteviously,  had  been  constructed  of  wood;  but  it  was  burnt 
many  times  in  contests. 

In  250,  a  severe  frost  took  place,  and  a  great  mortality  among 
animals  and  smaller  reptiles  ensued.  The  following  sunmier  a 
great  dearth  occurred,  through  which  deaths  became  prevalent 
among  the  inhabitants. 

In  260,  Bath  was  built  by  the  Romans,  which  caused  fighting 
between  them  and  the  Britons,  in  which  a  great  many  of  the  bit- 
ter were  killed. 

In  269,  the  sky  appeared  as  if  on  fire,  so  that  the  light  at  night 
became  as  vivid  as  that  of  day,  for  nine  days ;  after  which,  an  in- 
tense heat  came  on ;  and  a  general  want  of  water  in  rivers  and 
wells. 

In  272,  a  severe  famine  prevailed,  until  it  became  indispensably 
necessary  to  depend  on  aliens  and  invaders  for  all  the  means  of 
subsistence.  The  next  year  a  great  mortality  took  place  among 
the  population,  caused  by  the  diseases  that  had  remained  among 
them  from  the  time  of  the  previous  scarcity ;  during  which,  peo- 
ple were  obliged  to  make  bread  of  the  rinds  of  holly,  willow,  and 
elm;  and  also  of  fern-root;  all  of  which  were  insufficient  to  satisfy 
hunger.  So  severe  was  this  famine,  that  it  became  necessary  to 
till  the  ground,  and  plough  for  com;  the  cattle,  and  other 
beasts,  having  been  nearly  all  consumed  during  its  continuance. 

In  290,  the  Romans  were  unsparingly  slain  by  the  Cambro-Bri- 
tons,  for  having  violently  and  tyrannically  taken  away  their  wifei 
and  children ;  but  they  rescued  them,  and  recovered  also  their 
lands. 

In  291,  a  severe  winter  and  tremendous  frost  occurred ;  so  that 
many  of  the  rivers  became  quite  frozen,  and  the  birds  died  in 
the  woods. 

In  293,  schools  were  established,  to  promote  civilization,  in  aD 
the  British  towns ;  and  protecting  privileges  were  conferred  <» 
municipal  and  domestic  arts. 


REMARKABLE    OCCURRKKCES.  419 

In  294,  the  Irish  Picts,  who  had  migrated  from  Beitwy,i  were 
slain :  and,  in  the  same  year,  the  hattle  and  rebuilding  of  London 
took  place. 

In  297,  the  battle  of  Aberllychwrs  took  place,  where  the  Romans 
were  slain;  after  which  the  battles  of  Caermarthen  and  Gaer- 
Gynvarwy^  in  Dyved  were  fought. 

In  300,  the  battles  of  Llwydcoed,^  Caerdrynau,^  and  Worcester 
happened ;  and  in  the  following  year  those  of  Caerworgom,^  Caer- 
went,  and  Gloucester  were  fought. 

In  307,  a  great  pestilence  prevailed,  arising  from  the  bodies  of 
those  who  had  fallen  in  different  battles ;  and  a  fearful  number  of 
fall  grown  males  and  females  died  in  consequence,  together  with 
more  than  half  the  children  of  the  Island ;  in  consequence  of  which, 
the  invasion  of  the  Irish  Picts  took  place  in  the  North,  and 
that  of  the  pike-bearing  Irish  and  Lochlynians  in  Anglesea,  Ar- 
Yon,  and  the  Gommot. 

In  314,  scarcity  and  famine  took  place ;  the  Irish  and  Lochlyn- 
ians having  spoiled  the  corn-lands,  wherever  they  went,  under  the 
protection  of  the  Romans,  who  thus  avenged  their  failure  to  sub- 
ject the  British  population  to  their  own  will  and  pleasure.  The 
invaders  also  destroyed  all  the  beasts  that  were  found  in  their 
course. 

In  320,  a  land  flood  and  a  raging  sea-deluge  happened  simulta- 
neously in  the  North,  so  that  considerable  portions  of  land  along 
the  Grerman  Ocean  were  inundated ;  and  a  great  number  of  per- 
sons, with  much  cattle,  drowned. 

In  331,  sea  and  land  floods  occurred  coincidently,  when  the  ter- 
ritory of  Helig,^  the  son  of  Glynog,  of  Tyno  Helig,  was  inundated 


>  Bettwy,  may,  possibly,  mean  either  Batavia  or  Poitou. 

*  Loughor. 

*  *  *  The  situations  of  these  places  are  either  doubtful,  or  quite  unknown. 
•Cacrworgom,  (the  Caerguorcpn  of  Nennius)  was  the  ancient  name  of 

Llantwit  Major. 

^  The  name  of  this  Helig  ab  Glynog,  like  that  of  Gwyddno  Graranhir,  Lord 
of  the  Lowland  Cantred,  is  scarcely  ever  mentioned  without  this  additional 
observation,  **  whose  land  was  overwhelmed  by  the  sea,"  which  states  a  cir- 
eimistance  that  is  not  only  confirmed  both  by  oral  tradition  and  record,  but, 
also,  by  the  local  appearance  of  its  asserted  position,  the  description  of  which, 
ID  the  text,  although  involved  in  obscurity,  seems  to  indicate  that  it  ex- 
tended from  the  mouth  of  the  river  Clwvd  to  Beaumaris  Bav. 

3h 


420  REMARKABLE  OCCURRENCES. 

and  irrecoverably  lost.  This  territory  lay  between  the  estuary  of 
the  river  Glwyd  in  Arvon,  and  that  of  the  Branc  in  the  North 
Sea. 

In  335,  a  dreadful  famine  prevailed,  whereof  more  than  half  the 
British  population  died,  so  that  the  Romans  subjugated  the  whole 
Island  from  sea  to  sea,  in  all  directions,  and  slew  forty  thoufiand 
of  the  Irish  Picts  in  the  North. 

In  338,  the  Cambro-Britons  recovered  Caerlleon  upon  Usk;  in 
celebration  of  which  event,  they  held  a  festival  there ;  and  the 
triumphal  rejoicings  continued  for  forty  days. 

In  339,  many  of  the  Irish  banditti  were  taken  and  burnt  alive, 
for  their  treacherous  conduct  in  contravention  of  all  pacific  trea- 
ties and  solemn  ratifications ;  about  the  same  time  immunities 
were  conferred  on  husbandry,  ploughing  for  com,  and  the  culture 
of  fruit  trees,  which  were  brought  from  Italy  and  Spain ;  and  in 
the  same  year  marshes  in  Gwynedd  and  Ceredigion  were  oveiv 
whelmed  by  the  sea. 

In  340,  wind  and  water  mills  were  first  erected  in  Cambria; 
where,  previously,  only  hand  mills  were  known. 

In  353,  marshes  in  Gwynedd  and  Ceredigion  were  lost  in  eon- 
sequence  of  an  astonishing  sea  flood,  augmented  by  a  heavy  and 
simultaneous  land  flood,  through  which  many  municipal  places 
were  distroyed. 

In  380,  a  tremendous  storm  happened,  and  houses  and  corn 
were  extensively  burnt. 

About  these  times  the  Emperor  Constantino  governed  in  Bri- 
tain, and  protected  Christianity  from  such  as  were  hostile  to  it 
He  was  the  best,  and  most  religious  of  all  emperors :  Elen,  the 
daughter  of  Coel  Godebog,  Supreme  Sovereign  of  Britain,  was  hii 
mother ;  and  it  was  she  who  discovered  the  Holy  Cross  under  a 
heap  of  stones,^  that  was  thrown  upon  it  by  the  infidel  Jews  and 
pagans. 

About  this  period  Morien,^  the  son  of  Argad,  the  Bard,  flou- 
rished ;  and  he  was  the  most  learned  of  any  in  the  world.    He 

1  The  Welsh  term  is  *'  Cam, "  which  implies  a  heap  of  stones ;  a  tdinn  of 
disgrace  that  was  thrown  over  executed  malefactors ;  and  hence  depraved 
characters  became  branded  by  public  execration,  as  earned  thieves,  &c.  Tbe 
Jews  appear  to  have  had  the  same  custom,  by  which  they  attempted  to  àtm- 
crate  the  Holy  Cross,  after  their  cruel  crucifixion  of  our  Savioub. 

*His  superior  knowledge  gave  rise  to  the  expresaicm  <*  Moríea-ddjr^»" 
[Morienic  learning.]    See  Myv.  Arch.  I.  p.  410. 


REMARKABLE    OCCURRENCES.  421 

denied  baptism  and  the  sacrifice  of  the  body  of  Christ ;  whence 
arose  great  hatred,  contentions,  and  wars.  Morien^s  delusion  con- 
stituted one  of  the  three  deprivationary  delusions  of  the  Island  of 
Britain ;  the  first  of  which  was  the  delusion  of  Urb  Luyddawg, 
[of  the  Great  Army]  of  Lochlyn,  who  took  away  nearly  all  who 
oonld  bear  arms  and  fight  in  Britain ;  loading  them  to  destruction 
through  the  countries  about  the  Dead  Sea.  The  seeond  delusion 
was  that  of  Morien,  through  which  Baptism  and  Sacrifice  ceased 
in  Britain,  where  the  whole  population  became  unbaptized  Jews. 
The  third  delusion  was  that  of  Gwydion,  the  son  of  Don,  in  North 
Cambria  [Gwynedd]  who  obtained,  through  deception,  a  title  to 
the  crown  and  dominion  of  Anglesea,  Arvon,  and  the  Gommot, 
from  the  Boman  Emperor,  for  expelling  the  Cambrian  nation  from 
their  possessions,  which  he  bestowed  on  the  Irish  and  Lochlynians. 

In  382,  a  tremendously  high  wind  occurred  again,  when  the 
Irish  Picts  set  fire  to  the  wings  of  the  wild  birds  in  the  North,  by 
which  means  many  houses,  bams,  and  corn-stacks  were  burnt. 

In  390,  or  thereabouts,  the  Emperor  Constantino  patronized 
Ohristianity,  and  Bishop  Martin  resisted  the  delusion  of  Morien 
in  Italy  and  Britain ;  introducing  baptism  and  sacrifice,  as  incul- 
eftted  by  the  Apostle  Paul ;  who,  in  his  charge  to  the  Bishops  and 
Clergy,  said, — "  Let  every  person,  throughout  the  world,  be  bap- 
tized in  the  name  of  the  Father  of  Heaven,  and  in  the  name  of  the 
Son  of  his  Grace,  and  in  the  name  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  who,  like 
the  rays  of  the  Sun,  communicates  the  Light  of  God  wherever  he 
enters,  and  wherever  the  Heart  and  Conscience  may  be  open  to 
receive  him.  And  the  Holy  Ghost  impregnated  the  Blessed  Virgin 
before  the  time  of  her  marriage ;  whereupon  she  conceived  the 
Son  of  God,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  Grace,  wlio  despoiled 
hell ;  conveying  the  Five  Ages*  of  the  world  from  the  thraldom 
of  the  Devil  to  Paradise,  where  they  still  remain :  and  ever  blessed 
is  he  who  shall  be  admitted  amon<;  tliem.'*^ 

In  400,  the  Irish  Picts  came  to  Cambria,  and  committed  atro- 
cious depredations;  but,  at  last,  they  were  vanquished,  slain 
unsparingly,  and  driven  back  beyond  the  sea  to  their  original 
country. 

In  410,  severe  diseases  and  great  mortality  prevailed,  occasioned 
by  the  yellow  pestilence,  which  arose  from  the  dead  bodies  that 

'  The  Five  Ages  here  mentioned,  successively  ended  with  Noah,  Abraham, 
David,  Daniel,  and  John  the  Baptist.    Gunn's  Nennius,  p.  2. 


422  REMARKABLE   OCCURRENCES. 

remained  unburied,  aud  had  falleu  into  decomposition  over  the 
face  of  the  country. 

About  these  times,  also,  the  Emperor  Theodosius  conferred  im- 
munities on  learning  and  exaited  sciences  in  Britain ;  and  Saint 
Patrick  became  the  supreme  teacher  of  the  Gambro-British  nation 
under  that  enfranchisement :  but  the  pike-bearing  Irish  beset  the 
place  where  he  was,  and  bore  him  away,  in  captivity,  to  Ireland, 
where  he  became  a  saint  of  the  brightest  fame  in  aJl  the  world ; 
teaching  the  Christian  Faith  to  the  Irish,  who  previously,  were 
unbaptized  pagans. 

In  425,  Saint  Germanus  came  from  Gbul,  with  Saint  Lupus,  to 
Britain,  to  renew  Baptism,  Sacrifice,  and  a  right  belief  in  Chris- 
tianity, which  had  fallen  into  decay. 

In  430,  the  Irish  Picts  made  a  descent  on  Anglesea,  and  Arvon, 
and  were  joined  by  the  Irish  of  those  countries,  in  combined  hos- 
tility to  the  crown  of  the  Island  of  Britain:  but  they  were  opposed 
by  the  kings  and  princes  of  Cambria,  whose  cause  was  espoused  by 
the  two  Saints,  namely,  Germanus  and  Lupus ;  and  they  prayed 
to  God,  who  strengthened  them  against  treason  and  foreigners,  and 
made  them  victorious  over  their  enemies;  for  which  conquest, 
praise  to  God  in  the  highest  was  given  throughout  the  Island,  by 
the  Cimbric  nation,  in  defiance  of  the  Bomans,  who  had  recogniied 
the  oppression,  treason,  and  foreign  aggression. 

About  this  time,  Caerlleon  upon  Usk  was  burnt,  and  Llanear- 
van'  was  erected ;  which  became  the  first  privileged  Monastery  in 
the  Island ;  for  the  College  of  Theodosius,  in  Caerworgom,*  was 
not  a  monastery,  but  rather  an  enfranchised  school,  to  exhibit  and 
teach  the  distinguished  knowledge  and  exalted  sciences  that  were 
known  in  Rome,  and  to  the  Bomans  at  Caerlleon  upon  Usk. 

At  this  time,  a  great  sea  flood  took  place,  through  which  all  the 
marshes  in  Gwynedd,  Dyved,  Cornwall,  Devon,  Somerset,  and 

1  From  the  circumstance  of  its  origin,  as  well  as  from  the  name  îtael^  ü 
seems  pretty  evident  that  Llancarvan  signifies  the  Church  of  Germanus ;  al- 
though the  commutation  of  ^  to  c  is  contrary  to  the  grammatical  prindplaof 
the  Welsh  language. 

^  This  shows  that  Caerworgom  was  the  name  of  Llanwit  Major,  even  befon 
it  acquired  the  designation  of  "Bangor  Tewdws,"  [College  of  Theodotiiii] 
from  the  school  established  there  by  that  Emperor.  This  circumstance  con- 
fers additional  credibility  on  the  statement  of  Nennius,  and  on  the  antipài$ 
of  the  Ancient  British  authorities  on  wliich  he  professes  to  have  mosüy  1 
his  history. 


REMARKABLE    OCCURRENCES.  423 

Glamorgan  and  Gwent  were  lost,  together  with  extensive  tracts  in 
the  North. 

In  436,  Saint  Dubricins  was  made  Archbishop  of  Llandaff,  and 
Saint  Iltutus  became  head  teacher  of  the  College  of  Theodosius, 
which,  after  that,  was,  from  him,  called  the  College  of  Iltutus ;  but 
its  present  names  are — Llantwit  Major,  and  Llantwit  of  the  Vale. 
About  this  time,  also,  a  terrible  pestilence  occurred  in  Britain,  in  di- 
YÌne  vengeance  for  the  sins  of  the  Cambro-Britons  and  other  nations 
of  the  Island ;  whereupon  the  Irish  Picts  came  to  Cambria ;  but, 
through  the  prayers  of  the  saints,  they  were  vanquished,  and  happy 
was  the  deliverance. 

In  448,  Vortimer  the  Blessed  was  raised  to  the  throne  of  Britain, 
and  Dubricius  was  made  Archbishop  of  CaerUeon  upon  Usk,  Saint 
Teilaw  succeeding  to  the  archiepiscopal  see  of  Llandaff. 

After  this,  Vortimer  the  Blessed  was  killed,  and  Vortigem 
crowned  in  his  stead ;  which  event  became  the  source  of  misfor- 
tune to  the  primitive  British  nation,  and  the  ultimate  cause  of 
losing  the  supreme  sovereignty  of  the  Island ;  which,  till  then, 
had  remained  in  their  rightful  possession  from  their  first  arrival  in 
Britain,  which  took  place  fifteen  hundred  years  before  the  incarna- 
tion of  Christ. 

In  450,  Vortigem  brought  the  Saxons  to  the  Island  of  Britain, 
as  his  allies,  against  the  rightful  heir  to  the  crown,  namely,  Uthr 
Bendragon,  the  son  of  Vortimer  the  Blessed. 

In  452,  Vortigem  divorced  his  wife,  and  took  to  him  another 
wife,  who  was  not  otherwise  than  an  unbaptized  pagan ;  being,  in 
truth,  Alice  Ronwen,  the  daughter  of  Hengist,  prince  of  the  Sax- 
ons ;  and  on  her  son,  named  Octa,  the  crown  of  the  kingdom  was 
settled ;  so  that,  in  his  right,  the  Saxons  seized  the  diadem  of  the 
Island,  which  they  have  retained,  by  inveiglement,  to  this  day ; 
and  the  severest  of  all  usurping  invasions  was  that  of  the  Saxons 
in  Britain. 

In  453,  the  British  chieftains  were  killed  by  the  Saxons  in  the 
treachery  of  Ambrosbury  Hill,  called,  also,  the  Hill  of  Caer-Cara- 
dog,  in  the  district  of  Caersallawg,  where  they  were  assembled  un- 
der the  refuge  of  God's  Peace  and  of  national  tranquillity. 


THE  ROLL  OF  TRADITION  AND  CHRONOLOGY.» 

First  of  all,  an  account  is  here  presented  of  the  occurences  trans- 
mitted by  oral  tradition,  before  the  commencement  of  chronological 
computation. 

The  announcement  of  the  Divine  Name  is  the  first  event  tradi- 
tionally preserved;  and  it  occurred  as  follows: 

God,  in  vocalising  his  Name,  said  /(\,  and,  with  the  Word, 
all  worlds  and  animations  sprang  co-instuitaneously  to  being  and  life 
from  their  non-existence;  shouting,  in  extacy  of  joy,  /|\9  and 
thus  repeating  the  name  of  the  Deity.  Still  and  small  was  thai 
melodiously  sounding  voice  (i.  e.  the  Divine  utterance)  which  will 
never  be  equalled  again  until  Gt>D  shall  renovate  every  pre-exis- 
tence  from  the  mortality  entailed  on  it  by  sin,  by  re- vocalising  that 
name,  from  the  primary  utterance  of  which  emanated  all  lays  and 
melodies,  whether  of  the  voice  or  of  stringed  instruments;  and 
also  all  the  joys,  extacies,  beings,  vitalities,  felicities,  origins,  and, 
descents  appertaining  to  existence  and  animation.  Death  can  only 
ensue  from  three  causes,  namely,  from  divulging,  miscounting,  or 
unessentialising  the  name  of  God.  But  while,  and  where,  Hu 
Name  shall  be  retained  in  memory,  in  accordance  with  secrecy, 
number,  and  essence,  nothing  but  being,  vitality,  wisdom,  and 
blessedness,  can  be  known,  through  eternity  of  eternities.  Co-im- 
pulsive with  the  blessed  were  all  animated  beings;  and  God 
placed  them  in  their  innate  order,  or  primitive  state,  within  the 
Expanse^  of  Felicity,  but  He,  Himself,  existed  in  the  Expanse  of 
Infinitude,  where  the  blessed  perceived  Him  in  one  communion  of 


^  Taken  from  Edward  Williams's  transcript  of  Llewelyn  Sion's  MS.,  wlueh 
was  copied  from  Meyryg  Davydd's  transcript  of  an  old  MS.  in  the  liluBiy  of 
Raglan  Castle. 

*  The  Cimbric  word  cylch  (circle)  is  rendered  ejcpatuey  in  some  instances  in 
this  translation  ;  although  cirde  has  been  the  English  word  hitherto  adopted 
in  reference  to  the  three  dniidic  states  of  existence.  The  reason  for  theiltcr- 
ation  is — ^that  circle  is  far  too  limited  a  term  for  the  residence  of  the  Omni- 
present Deitt. — Cylch  is  druidically  used  merely  in  the  sense  that  Matt '» 
applied  in  the  expressions — state  of  Felicity,  state  of  Infinitude,  and  state  of 
Inchoation ;— except  that  it  is  also  a  symbol  of  endlessness. 


THE  ROLL  OF  TRADITION  AND  CHRONOLOGY.    425 

glory,  without  secrecy,  without  number,  and  without  species,  that 
could  be  ascertained,  save  essential  light,  essential  love,  and  essen- 
tial power,  for  the  good  of  all  existences  and  vitalities.  Then  the 
maxim  ^Godand  enougK  became  established  on  the  basis  of  truth  and 
oral  tradition;  and  it  was  the  second  principle  of  all  realities  and 
sciences  transmitted  by  memory.  But  the  blessed,  being  dissatisfied 
with  their  plenary  happiness,  from  not  having  retained  the  First 
Truth  in  memory,  and  aiming  to  augment  their  felicity,  made  an  on- 
set on  Infinitude,  purposing  to  divulge  all  that  they  might  discover 
there ;  and  to  ascertain  the  secrecy,  number,  and  essence  of  God ; 
but  that  they  could  not  efiect ;  and  when  they  would  fain  regain 
the  Expanse  of  Felicity,  they  could  not,  because  Mortality  inter- 
posed; consequently  they  fell  into  the  Expanse  of  Inchoation; 
where  the  Deity  impressed  on  their  memory  and  knowledge  the 
third  truth,  namely,  ^  Without  God^  tcithmU  every  thing'*\  for,  in  the 
Expanse  of  Inchoation,  neither  perception  nor  knowledge  of  God 
exists.  The  blessed,  then,  who  had  continued  in  their  primeval 
state,  by  retaining  the  Deity,  his  Name,  and  his  Truth  in  memory, 
perceived  the  state  of  Inchoation,  and  called  it  Be-incipiency^  be- 
cause it  was  the  second  work  of  the  Deity'^s  creation ;  and  made 
for  the  sake  of  saving  the  disobedient  from  the  perdition  towards 
which  they  had  rushed.  The  chief  reality  of  Be-incipiency  has 
already  been  mentioned,  as  the  third  principle  of  truth  and  know- 
ledge, i.  e.  *  Without  God,  without  every  thing,'  for  to  be  without 
Him  is  to  be  destitute  of  every  felicity ;  a  privation  whence  originated 
every  evil  and  sufi*ering  that  intellect  can  imagine.  But  God,  out 
of  his  infinite  love,  advanced  the  subjects  of  Be-incipiency  in  pro- 
gression, through  all  the  states  of  evil  incident  to  them,  that  they 
might  come  to  perceive  their  primeval  state,  and,  through  that 
attainment,  learn  to  avoid  a  recurrence  of  those  evils,  after  being 
once  delivered  from  them ;  so  that,  on  attaining  the  state  of  Hu- 
manity, they  might  supplicate  God,  and  thus  obtain  a  recollection 
and  knowledge  of  goodness,  justice,  and  love ;  and,  consequently, 
a  re-perception  of  the  primitive  truths ;  that  by  retaining  them  in 
memory,  and  adhering  to  them,  they  might,  after  the  release  of 
death,  co-exist  in  primeval  felicity,  in  renovated  consciousness  of 
their  pre-existence  in  that  state,  and  of  the  evils  they  endured  in 
traversing  the  Expanse  of  Inchoation. 

After  traversing  the  Expanse  of  Inchoation,  in  the  state  of 
humanity,  some  of  the  principal  sciences  and  fundamental  truths 
were  restored  to  memory  and  intellect;  and  the  Almighty  deigned 


426    THE  ROLL  OF  TRADITION  AND  CHRONOLOGY. 

his  grace  to  those,  who,  in  his  sight,  were  deemed  the  best  of  man- 
kind ;  and  explained  truths,  organizations,  and  beneficent  systemB 
to  them.  The  persons  thus  initiated,  again  taught  others;  and 
raised  to  the  privileges  of  kindred  order  those  who  had  engrafted 
on  their  memory  and  understanding  those  primitive  truths  and 
sciences.  It  was  thus  that  the  system  of  kindred  order  was  first 
instituted  for  the  promotion  of  all  knowledge,  established  regala- 
tions,  and  truths, — ^the  fundamental  maxim,  ''God'ê  Word  in  ike 
highest^  being  inseparably  blended  with  the  whole.  And  all  who 
retained  that  principle  in  memory  would  say,  ere  they  took  any 
subject  into  consideration,  or  carried  any  purpose  into  effect, — 
'God  leading;'— 'In  the  Name  of  God;'— 'Truth  is  Truth;'— 
'Truth  will  become  Truth;' — 'Truth will  have  its  place;' — 'Gk>dÌ8 
Truth;' — and,  'God  is  God:' — ^and  the  Deity  poured  his  Grace  on 
all  who  retained  in  memory  and  action  those  fundamental  truths; 
and  he  established  them  in  the  order  of  regulated  kindreds.  It  was 
through  such  Divine  Grace  that  the  Gimbric  people  first  attaioed 
strength,  judicial  dispensations,  social  order,  domestication,  and  all 
other  primitive  principles  of  kindred  and  national  institutions. 

Having  thus  far  advanced  in  social  order,  the  Gimbri,  for  count- 
less ages,  were  a  migratory  people,  moving,  in  communities,  over 
the  face  of  transmarine  countries ;  but,  at  length,  they  settled,  as 
a  nation,  in  Defrobani.  or  the  Summer  Gountry,  where  they  re- 
belled against  God  and  his  fundamental  truths;  sinning  and  com- 
mitting injustice  with  daring  transgression;  for  which,  He  poured 
on  them  his  retributive  vengeance;    whereupon  dispersion  and 
devastation  ensued,  until  they  became  nearly  extinct ;  having  lost 
their  territories  and  national  rights.     Then  some  betook  to  them- 
selves their  consciences,  recovered  to  memory  the  Name  of  the 
Deity  and  his  truths ;  and  adhering  to  those  principles,  they  con- 
ducted themselves  under  the  influence  of  cautious  reason  in  their 
sinking  state.     The  Almighty  now,  out  of  his  grace  and  anatte^ 
able  love,  imbued  them  with  laudable  intentions ;   placing  amoqg 
them  wise  and  holy  men,  who,  under  the  upholding  of  his  spirit  and 
peace,  and  in  the  refuge  of  his  truth  and  justice,  acquired  a  right 
knowledge  of  every  superiority  conducive  to  the  well-being  of  the 
Gimbric   race.      Thus   circumstanced,   they    proceeded  in  their 
adopted  course,  admitting  into  their  train   all  that   would  joiD 
them;  and  in  this  manner  retreated  from  place  to  place,  until  they 
escaped  from  the  nations  who  had  assailed  them  with  devastatioD 
and  plunder. 


THE  ROLL  OF  TRADITION  AND  CHRONOLOGY.    427 

At  the  end  of  their  migration,  they  came  to  the  Island  of  Bri- 
tain ;  where,  previously,  no  human  foot  had  trodden ;  and  took 
possession  of  it,  under  the  protection  of  God  and  his  peace.  Here 
they  established  wise  regulations  and  religious  rites;  and  those 
persons,  who,  through  God'^s  grace  and  his  superlative  gifts,  had 
received  poetic  genius,  were  constituted  teachers  of  wisdom 
and  beneficent  sciences,  and  called  Poets  and  Gwyddoniaid.^ 
The  art  of  vocal  song  now  commenced,  which  became  the 
vehicle  of  all  traditions  and  retained  truths ;  as  it  presented  the 
easiest  auxiliary  to  memory,  the  most  agreeable  to  meditation,  and 
the  most  fascinating  for  intellectual  expression.  Persons  of  the 
above  classes  were  the  primitive  teachers  of  the  Cimbric  nation ; 
but  they  were  guided  by  neither  law  nor  usage,  consequently,  many 
of  them  became  subject  to  error  and  forgotfulness ;  until  acting  in 
opposition  to  the  Name  of  God  and  his  Truths,  disorganization, 
spoliation,  and  every  iniquity  ensued. 

At  this  period,  a  wise  man,  called  Tydain,  the  father  of  Poetic 
Genius,  exercised  his  meditation  and  reason  on  the  best  mode  of 
framing  stringent  institutes  for  general  sciences,  and  the  divinely 
communicated  principle  of  poetic  genius ;  and  presented  his  regu- 
lations to  the  consideration  of  other  erudite  persons  of  the  Cimbric 
nation,  who  testified  their  unqualified  adoption  of  them ;  and  the 
first  consequent  step  was  to  establish  a  principle  of  sovereignty ; 
to  efiect  which,  the  duties  of  dispensing  justice,  and  sustaining 
social  order,  devolved  on  chiefs  of  kindred;  who  were  also  en- 
joined to  confer  the  supreme  rank  of  sovereign  eldership  on  him 
whom  they  might  deem  the  noblest  of  their  grade ;  and  Prydain, 
the  áon  of  Aedd  the  Great,  was,  by  virtue  of  his  wisdom,  bravery, 
justice,  and  brotherly  kindness,  the  personage  they  selected ;  and 
he,  cx)nsequently,  was  proclaimed  Monarch  of  the  Island  of  Bri- 
tain ;  constituting,  in  that  capacity,  the  bond  of  government. 

The  principle  of  Sovereignty,  and  the  royal  title  of  Prydain, 
being  thus  permanently  established,  Tydain,  the  father  of  poetry, 

1  The  term  ^Owyddoniaidy  of  the  Welsh  text,  being  retained  in  the  transla- 
tion, requires  some  explanation.  It  is  the  plural  form  of  Gwyddon^  which  is 
derived  from  Qwyddy  a  word  that  sig:nifìes — uìood^  biUeUy  wooden  frame^  âçc. 

The  aboriginal  Britons  appear  to  have  inscribed  their  knowledge  on  wood, 
using  both  symbols  and  letters  for  that  purpose  ;  hence  a  person  of  superior 
knowledge  was  called  Gwÿddon,  or  man  of  wood-learning  ;  and  a  reputed  sor- 
oereas,  being  superstitioualy  deemed  conversant  in  the  occult  sciences,  was 
termed — Qwyddonet. 

3  I 


428   THE  ROLL  OF  TRADITION  AND  CHRONOLOGY. 

was  found  supreme  in  heaven-descended  genius ;  hence  he  was  ap- 
pointed to  advise  and  teach  efiectually,  in  public,  the  Gimbric  na- 
tion, which  he  did  through  the  medium  of  his  vocal  song,  composed 
for  the  occasion,  and  publicly  ratified  as  a  faithful  vehicle  of  oral 
tradition. 

After  the  death  of  Tydain,  his  equal  could  not  be  found  in 
divine  poetic  genius  and  the  sciences ;  whereupon  his  poem  was 
closely  scrutinized ;  and  its  precepts  being  adhered  to,  a  public 
proclamation  was  issued,  announcing,  under  a  year  and  a  day^s  no- 
tice, that  refuge  and  privileges  would  be  granted  to  all  bards  of 
divine  poetic  genius,  who  should  assemble  at  an  appointed  time 
and  place,  so  as  to  constitute  a  chair  and  Gorsedd*  (i.  e.  supreme 
bardic  sessions)  in  accordance  with  the  instructions  contained  in 
the  poem  of  Tydain,  the  father  of  poetic  genius;  and  conformably 
to  the  sense  and  deliberation  of  the  country,  represented  by  the 
heads  of  kindred  and  acknowledged  wise  men  of  the  Cimbric  na- 
tion.    At  the  chair  thus  convened,  many  were  found  to  be  divinely 
inspired  with  poetic  genius,  endowed  with  powerful  reason,  and 
confident  of  deliverance ;  whereupon  they  cast  lots,  to  ascertain 
who  the  three  persons  were  that  excelled  in  name  and  fame ;  and 
they  were  found  to  be  Plennydd,  Alawn,  and  Gwron,  who^were 
unrivalled  in  oral  tradition,  as  well  as  in  vocal  song,  and  the  secrecy 
of  letters  and  symbols.    Upon  verifying  this,  they  were  appointed  to 
frame  good  regulations  for  kindred  and  country,  tradition  and  learn- 
ing, and  all  other  attainments  of  the  mind.     Thus  empowered,  and 
under  the  refuge  of  God  and  his  peace,  they  established  laws  for 
regal  government,  judicature,  and  social  order;  conferred   insti- 
tutional distinctions  on  poets  and  bards,*  with  immunities  for  their 
recitative  poems ;  defined  and  fixed  the  principles  of  the  Gimbríe 
language,   lest   it   should   degenerate  to  imperfections  and  bar- 
barisms;   and  regulated  the  modes  of  preserving  oral  tradition, 
learning,  and  all  other  branches  of  Cimbric  lore.     This  code  was 
now  submitted  to  the  deliberation  of  kindred  and  country,  in  gor- 
sedd;    and  being  there  put  to  the  vote,  it  was  adopted  by  a  great 


1  The  literal  meaning  of  'Gorsedd'  is — Supreme  seat ;  but  it  frequently  sîgDÎ- 
íìes,  Royal  throne,  Institutional  sessions.  Bardic  convention,  and,  sometimes, 
even  a  single  bard,  if  fully  graduated. 

2  Bard,  in  its  primitive  sense,  signifies  a  high  dignitary :  the  expression 
^  bardd  o  brydydd/  which  frequently  occurs  in  the  Welsh  text  of  these  insti- 
tutes, means  a  person  high  in  the  order  of  poets ;  i.  e.  a  folly  graduated  poet 


THE   ROLL   OP  TRADITION   AND   CHRONOLOGY.        429 

majority ;  whereupon  it  acquired  the  force  and  privileges  of  nation- 
ally attested  authority,  by  voice  conventional;  consequently,  it 
was  again  subjected  to  the  same  national  test,  under  the  pre- 
scribed year  and  a  day''s  notice ;  and  so  on,  from  gorsedd  to  gor- 
sedd,  until  the  required  expiration  of  three  years ;  every  consecu- 
tive meeting  confirming  it  by  a  majority  of  votes ;  so  that,  eventu- 
ally, it  was  permanently  established  in  full  force  and  privileges,  as 
the  system  devised  by  the  said  three  wise  men,  who  were  the  pri- 
mitive bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  according  to  bardic  rules  and 
prescribed  usages. 

Proficients  in  ancient  usages  were  appointed  at  those  supreme 
sessions  and  festivals,  to  verify  remarkable  periods,  and  times  of 
great  events,  and  also  to  restore  distinguished  occurrences,  persons, 
and  actions  to  memory ;  the  whole  of  which  they  were  directed  to 
perpetuate  in  vocal  song,  to  disclose  by  voice  conventional,  and 
also  to  transmit  by  means  of  letters  and  symbols. 

The  first  event  ascertained  by  them  was  the  arrival  of  the  Cim- 
bric  people  in  the  Island  of  Britain,  which  took  place  eight  hun- 
dred and  forty-nine  years  before  the  time  of  Prydain  the  son  of 
Aedd  the  Great. 

From  the  arrival  of  the  Cimbri  in  Britain,  to  the  war  of  the  Five 
Brothers,  one  hundred  and  twenty-eight  years ;  and,  in  that  con- 
test, more  than  half  the  men  of  the  Cimbric  nation  wore  slain  ;  so 
that  war  ensued  among  the  females  for  the  males ;  but  the  conten- 
tion was  ultimately  appeased  by  allotting  one  young  man  to  every 
three  young  women. 

From  the  war  of  the  Five  Brothers  to  the  time  of  Evrog  the  • 
Mighty,  who  was  raised  to  supreme  power,  two  hundred  years. 


THE  VOICE  CONVENTIONAL 

OF  THE  BARDS  OF  THE  ISLAND  OF  BRITAIN,  EXTRACTED  FROM  MEY- 

RYG  OF  GLAMORGAN'S  BOOK,  AT  RAGLAN  CASTLE,  BY 

ME,  LLYWELYN  JOHN  OF  LLANGEWYDD, 

IN  GLAMORGAN  :— THAT  IS, 


An  account  of  the  rights  and  usages  of  the  bards  of  the  Island 
of  Britain,  as  exercised  in  the  times  of  the  primitive  bards  and 
princes  of  the  Cimbri;  and  no  one  can  attain  the  priviledged  grade 
of  Chief  Bard,  unless  initiated  into  this  system,  which  was  insti- 
tuted for  that  order,  and  for  bardism,  because  of  the  duties  prescribed 
by  ancient  usage  to  them,  and  other  persons  of  vocal  song,  according 
to  the  immunities  and  customs  of  the  Bards  of  Britain. 

THE    VOICE    CONVENTIONAL    OF   THE    BARDS    OF    THE 
ISLAND  OF  BRITAIN. 

I.  Befork  the  time  of  Prydain,  the  son  of  Aedd  the  Great,  no 
persons  existed  who  were  versed  in  national  and  genealogical  know- 
ledge, except  the  Gwyddoniaid;  and  because  neither  ordinance 
nor  voice  conventional  was  known  to  that  order,  much  knowledge, 
traditional  lore,  and  national  information  became  lost  to  the  Cim- 
brie  race.  But  after  they  had  attained  national  order,  under  the 
protection  of  Prydain'*s  government,  and  had  fully  conformed  to  his 
wise  and  benign  regulations  and  laws,  anarchy  ceased,  and  tran- 
quillity prevailed.  Prydain,  now,  ordered  diligent  search  to  be 
made  throughout  the  Island  for  any  persons  who  might  possibly 
have  retained  in  memory  the  primitive  knowledge  of  the  Cimbri, 
so  as  to  secure  the  traditional  preservation  of  such  information ; 
and  three  persons  of  genuine  Cimbric  origin,  nobility,  and  ordina- 
tion, were  found,  called  Plennydd,  Alawn,  and  Gwron,  who  were 
of  the  order  of  Gwyddoniaid,  and  professed  to  know,  traditionally, 
much  of  the  learning  that  had  appertained  to  the  Cimbric  nee, 
from  time  immemorial.  These  persons  having  communicated  what 
they  knew,  the  whole  was  recited  in  national  audience,  before  com- 
mons and  lords,  proclamation  being  made,  under  a  year  and  a  day^f 
notice,  that  patronage  would  be  extended  to  all  persons  possessÌDg 
any  traditional  knowledge,  however  limited,  of  ancient  lore,  wl» 


THE  VOICE   CONVENTIONAL,   ETC.  431 

should  assemble  in  privileged  gorsedd,  and  there  declare  it.  That 
object  being  effected,  a  second  gorsedd  was  similarly  announced, 
and  numerously  held,  at  which  the  whole  information  obtained  was 
traditionally  recited  by  Voice  Conventional;  whereupon  it  was 
submitted  to  the  consideration  of  a  third  gorsedd,  convened  in 
like  manner,  and  which,  this  time,  consisted  of  all  the  wise  men  of 
the  nation,  to  whom  a  well  digested  system  of  ancient  Gimbric 
learning  was  shown,  together  with  the  poetical  institutes  of  Tydain 
the  father  of  genius,  who  first  composed  a  regular  Cimbric  poem. 
The  system  here  produced  having  been  judicially  ratified,  as  well 
as  every  other  branch  of  knowledge  and  tradition  relating  to  early 
science ;  the  three  superior  bards,  already  named,  were  requested  to 
perpetuate  the  whole  by  means  of  song  and  traditional  recitation, 
so  as  most  conveniently  and  systematically  to  impart  oral  instruc- 
tion ;  and  at  the  succeeding  gorsedd  they  presented  their  recita- 
tive compositions,  which  were  referred  to  the  consideration  of  three 
additional  and  consecutive  bardic  chairs,  to  be  held  under  pre- 
scribed observances.  Having,  at  the  expiration  of  the  requisite 
three  years,  again  assembled  in  gorsedd,  and  no  voice,  whether 
native  or  alien,  being  raised  either  against  them  or  their  composi- 
tions, degrees  were  conferred  on  those  three  bards,  who  now 
framed  laws  for  the  regulation  of  bards,  and  the  confirmation  of 
privileges  and  usages,  from  thenceforward,  in  perpetuity ; — which 
immunities  are  called  the  privileges  and  usages  of  the  bards  of  the 
Island  of  Britain;  these  bards,  also,  being  each  designated  "bard 
according  to  the  privileges  and  usages  of  the  bards  of  the  Island 
of  Britain." 

The  aforesaid  three  primitive  bards,  having  fully  established 
their  regulations,  took  aspirants  in  poetry  under  their  tuition,  as 
students  in  progression,  to  be  instructed  and  perfected  in  the 
mystery  of  Bardism ; — and  endowments  were  granted  to  all  bards, 
and  their  disciples, — whence  they  were  designated  "endowed  bards 
by  right,"  and  "endowed  disciples  by  claim  or  protection;"  the 
whole  being  legally  substantiated  by  the  assent  of  country  and 
aristocracy.  The  preceding  immunities  and  usages,  and  the  mode 
by  which  they  are  sustained  by  oral  traditon  and  voice  conven- 
tional, are  explained  as  follows. 

A  gorsedd  of  the  bards  of  the  island  of  Britain  must  be  held 
in  a  conspicuous  place,  in  full  view  and  hearing  of  country  and 
aristocracy,  and  in  the  face  of  the  sun  and  the  eye  of  Light ;  it 
Wing  unlawful  to  hold  such  meetings  either  under  cover,  at  night. 


432       THE  VOICE  CONVENTIONAL  OF  THE 

or  under  any  circumstance  otherwise  than  while  the  son  shall  be 
msiMe  in  the  sky :  or,  as  otherwise  expressed, — 

Á  chair  and  gorsedd  of  the  British  bards  shall  be  held  con- 
spicuously, in  the  face  of  the  sun,  in  the  eye  of  Light,  and  under 
the  expansive  freedom  of  the  sky,  that  all  may  see  and  hear. 

Bards  bear  no  naked  weapon  against,  nor  in  the  presence,  of  any 
one ;  and  no  one  is  permitted  to  do  so  in  their  presence ;  for  a  bard 
is  the  minister  of  peace,  refuge,  and  justice. 

The  judgment  of  a  bardic  gorsedd  must  be  given,  either  by 
ballot,  or  in  any  other  way  by  which  a  majority  of  votes  may  be 
collected  and  ascertained,  in  accordance  with  the  prescribed  ri^ts. 

The  manner  by  which  the  judgment  of  a  gorsedd  may  be 
known,  is  as  follows : — ^Any  application  or  claim  whatever,  moist  be 
submitted  to  the  consideration  and  decision  of  a  gorsedd ;  and  if 
protected  thereby,  it  must  consecutively  undergo  the  deliberation 
of  a  second  and  a  third  gorsedd ;  and  if  again  adopted  by  the  pro- 
tective judgment  of  each,  it  shall  thereupon  acquire  the  full  force 
and  efficiency  of  authority :  and  the  judgment  of  a  gorsedd  can- 
not be  otherwise  determined. 

A  convention,  held  for  the  primary  consideration  of  any  thing, 
is  called  a  Gorsedd  of  greeting ;  and  if  it  pass  a  protective  jndg« 
ment  on  the  subject,  the  same  shall  be  submitted  to  a  second  con- 
vention, called  a  gorsedd  of  claim ;  and  if  the  decision  of  that  be 
equally  favourable,  a  third  convention,  called  a  gorsedd  -of  effici- 
ency, shall  duly  ensue ;  and  if  that  again  pronounce  its  judgment 
in  affirmation,  the  measure  so  passed  shall  be  finally  received  as 
possessing  forcible  and  efficient  authority ;  but  unless  the  affirm- 
ing and  protective  decisions  of  such  three  Conventions  be  obtained, 
no  production  or  circumstance  whatever,  whether  it  be  a  song,  or 
anything  else,  shall  be  admitted  to  the  privileges  of  the  gorsedd  of 
British  bards.  No  production  or  circumstance,  whether  H  be  a 
song,  tradition,  instruction,  notice,  or  anything  else,  shall  be 
deemed  of  legal  importance,  or  constitute  any  authority,  tmlese 
ratified  by  the  protective  adoption  of  a  gorsedd  of  efficiency  of  the 
bards  of  Britain;  but  when  so  sanctioned,  it  acquires  effectual fbroe. 

Greeting  and  claim  may  be  held  at  a  provincial  chair  that  is  not 
under  the  auspices  of  the  gorsedd  of  the  paramount  monarchy  of 
the  British  Island ;  for  instance,  those  progressive  steps  may  take 
place  in  the  chair  of  Glamorgan,  Venedotia,  or  of  any  other  loca- 
lity ;  but  efficiency  can  only  be  imparted  by  the  gorsedd  of  the 
monarchy  of  Britain. 


BABDS  OF  THE  ISLAND   OF   BRITAIN.  433 

There  are  four  chairs  of  song  and  hardism  in  Cambria;  viz: — 

1.  The  chair  of  Morgan wg,  Gwent,  Erging,  Euas,  and  Ystrad- 
yw :  and  its  motto  is, — '  God  and  all  goodness.' 

2.  The  chair  of  Deheubarth,  Dyved,  and  Ceredigion:  the  motto 
of  which  is, — *  Heart  to  Heart/ 

3.  The  chair  of  Powys,  and  Gwynedd  east  of  Conway:  its 
motto  being, — '  Who  slays  shall  be  slain.** 

4.  The  chair  of  Gwynedd,  Mona,  and  the  Isle  of  Man:  the 
motto  of  which  is, — 'Jesus,' — or  '0!  Jesus,  repress  injustice,'  ac- 
cording to  an  old  traditional  record. 

These  four  chairs  may  be  held  anywhere  in  Britain,  as  occasion 
may  require ;  but  the  most  regular  course  is  to  hold  each  distinc- 
tive chair  within  its  own  province,  when  a  year  and  a  day's  pre- 
vious notice  will  not  be  necessary ;  but  if  held  elsewhere,  such 
notice  must  indispensably  be  given. 

A  gorsedd  of  the  bards  of  Britain  may  be  held  in  any  accus- 
tomed and  continued  place  of  resort  for  that  purpose ;  that  is,  in 
any  situation  duly  appropriated  for  the  occasion,  by  a  year  and  a 
day's  notice,  progressively,  through  all  the  preparatory  stages  to 
that  of  efficiency.  But  places  not  so  circumstanced  must,  if  requisite, 
be  qualified  for  conventional  purposes,  by  the  preliminary  obser- 
vance of  prescribed  forms,  according  to  ancient  rights  and  usages ; 
viz.  due  notice,  greeting,  claim,  and  efficiency; — and  a  dormant 
chair  may  be  resuscitated  by  similar  proceedings,  when,  and  wher- 
ever, requisite. 

A  chair  that  has  not  been  held  within  the  memory  of  any  living 
person,  is  called  a  dormant  one,  with  respect  to  its  own  province ; 
but  it  ia  still  entitled  to  the  privileges  of  continued  activity  in 
every  other  chair  or  gorsedd  of  regularly  held  conventions;  so 
that  the  chair  of  London,  of  Cornwall,  of  Devon,  or  of  any  other 
district,  may  be  held  in  that  of  Glamorgan,  or  of  GwjTiedd,  (if  not 
in  disuse ;)  but  all  chairs  are  always  deemed  active  in  the  Gorsedd 
of  the  bards  of  the  British  Island. 

A  chair  and  gorsedd  of  the  bards  of  the  island  of  Britain,  or  of 
any  included  province,  should,  according  to  ancient  privileges 
and  usages,  be  held  on  any  of  the  following  high  holidays  of  the 
year,  which  are  the  four  solar  quarters,  viz. 

1.  Alban  Arthan,  (Winter  Solstice,)  which  falls  on  the  tenth 
day  of  December,  being  the  shortest  day;  and  the  first  both  of  the 
winter  and  the  year,  according  to  the  traditions  and  usages  of  the 
ancient  Cimbric  bards. 


434        THE  VOICE  CONVENTIONAL  OF  THE 

2.  Alban  Eilir,  (Vernal  Equinox,)  which  occurs  on  the  tenth 
day  of  March ;  being  the  first  day  of  the  spring. 

3.  Alban  Hevin,  (Summer  Solstice,)  which  takes  place  on  the 
tenth  of  June,  that  being  the  first  and  longest  day  of  summer. 

4.  Alban  Elved,  (Autumnal  Equinox,)  which  occurs  on  the 
tenth  of  September,  and  is  the  first  and  longest  day  of  autumn,  when 
the  autumnal  equinox  returns : — ^and  it  was  on  those  days,  together 
with  the  preceding  and  following  ones,  severally,  that  the  bards 
held  their  chairs  and  supreme  conventions,  and  transacted  their 
principal  business  and  general  concerns. 

The  day  previous  to  any  Alban  is  called  its  vigil,  and  the  day 
after  it,  the  festival ;  each  of  them  being,  equally  with  the  Alban, 
free  and  open  for  any  pending  observances ;  so  that  each  Alban 
consists,  virtually,  of  three  days,  on  which  any  case  requiring  the 
sanction  of  a  chair  or  gorsedd  may  be  determined,  without  having 
previously  given  the  usual  notice. 

The  times  appropriated  for  holding  any  minor  chair,  or  subordi- 
nate gorsedd,  are  the  four  quarter  days  of  the  moon, — namely, 

1.  The  day  of  its  change,  called — the  first  of  the  moon. 

2.  The  day  of  its  half  increase,  called — ^the  renewing  quarter 
day. 

3.  The  day  of  full  moon,  called — ^the  fulfilling. 

4.  The  re-waning  quarter  day,  called — ^the  half  decrease  day. 
It  is  on  these  quarter  days  that  any  subordinate  gorsedd,  or 

minor  chair  or  convocation  for  worship,  should  be  held,  for  the 
information  of  kindred  and  country,  and  for  the  instruction  of  dis- 
ciples and  privileged  novices  in  those  things  which  they  ought  to 
learn,  to  know,  and  to  practice. — But,  nothing,  at  any  snch  minor 
chair  or  subordinate  gorsedd,  can  be  submitted  for  consideration, 
under  proclamation  and  notice,  nor  can  the  progressive  steps  of  greet- 
ing, claim,  and  efficiency,  take  place  there ;  the  course  allowable  on 
such  occasions  being,  exclusively,  that  of  preparatory  knowledge, 
under  the  protection,  but  not  the  judicial  adoption,  of  the  bards  of 
the  island  of  Britain,  for  the  latter  could  neither  be  consistent!/ 
nor  legally  given  but  on  the  four  principal  holy-days. 

Bards  are  graduated,  according  to  the  rights  of  gorsedd,  as  fol- 
lows : — 

A  chief  bard  positive,  or  poet,  called,  also,  *bard  of  rights,'  and 
*full  graduate  of  rights,'  is  admitted  to  degrees,  under  primitive 
usage,  by  progression ;  that  is, — ^by  entering  as  a  poetic  aspiruit 
under  a  tutor,  or  matured  graduate  of  gorsedd,  and  advancing 


BARDS   OF    THE   ISLAND   OF   BRITAIN.  435 

progressiyelj,  until  thoroughly-instructed  in  the  art  of  vocal  song 
and  poetical  criticism ; — ^proficiently  conversant  in  the  Oimbric 
language,  and  capable  of  passing  correct  judgments  on  any  com- 
positions in  it ; — ^profoundly  acquainted  with  the  secrets,  rights, 
and  usages  of  the  bards  of  Britain ; — informed  in  their  three  vehi- 
cles of  tradition,  namely,  the  memorials  of  song,  of  the  voice  of 
efficiency,  and  of  usage  ; — taught  in  their  three  credibilities,  which 
are,  national  voice,  wooden  record,  and  the  conservations  of  reason; 
—and  until,  also,  so  well  versed  in  the  cardinal  maxims  of  divinity, 
legislation,  and  wisdom,  as  to  be  announced  proficient  and  stable 
in  them  by  the  judgment,  protection,  and  retention  of  a  Gorsedd 
of  efficiency.  Being  erudite  in  these  qualifications,  having  sub- 
stantiated them,  before  a  Gorsedd,  through  the  stages  of  greeting 
and  claim,  and  attained  the  privileges  of  judicial  ratification,  he 
will  be  proclaimed  a  bard  of  efficiency,  raised  to  institutional  supe- 
riority, and  have  a  chair  given  to  him ;  whence  he  will  become 
a  bard  of  Gorsedd,  and  continue  so,  under  the  privileges  of  that 
chair.  Having  in  this  manner  obtained  three  distinct  chairs,  the 
degree  of  bard  of  Gorsedd,  according  to  the  rights  and  usages  of 
the  bards  of  the  island  of  Britain,  will  be  conferred  on  him. 

A  second  mode  of  graduating  a  poet,  (the  candidate  not  having 
previously  undergone  progression,)  is  to  propose  him  for  such  dis- 
tinction, under  a  year  and  a  day'*s  notice ;  thus  presenting  to  all 
persons  an  ample  opportunity  of  showing  why  such  aspirant  either 
ought  not,  or  could  not  be  admitted  into  the  bardic  order  ; — ^but 
if  no  such  objection  can  be  urged,  the  candidate  may,  under  the 
sanction  of  Gorsedd,  pass  through  the  stages  of  greeting  and 
claim,  and  attain  that  of  efficiency ;  after  which  he  may,  under 
the  privileges  of  chairs,  be  admitted  a  bard  according  to  the  rights 
and  usages  of  the  order  in  Britain,  and  take  his  seat  of  efficiency 
in  Gorsedd. 

A  third  way  of  conferring  the  degree  of  primitive  bard  on  a 
poet,  when  three  conventional  bards  of  efficiency  cannot  be  found 
in  Gt)rsedd,  is,  to  get  a  poetic  aspirant  of  no  progression,  and  sub- 
ject him  to  the  verdict  of  three  hundred  men,  upon  the  testimony 
either  of  twelve  true  men  of  the  country  and  aristocracy, — upon 
the  word  of  a  magistrate,  or  that  of  a  minister  of  religion,  who 
shall  attest  on  conscience  that  such  aspirant  has  the  qualities  and 
attainments  requisite  for  a  bard  ;  and  if  he  be  adjudged  a  bard  by 
a  verdict  so  obtained,  he  shall  become  entitled  to  a  chair  in  Gor- 
sedd,  according  to  the  rights  of  reason,  necessity,  and  national 

3  K 


436        THE  VOICE  CONVENTIONAL  OF  THE 

suffrage; — so  that,  thus,  a  bardic  Gorsedd  may  be  rightfully  consti- 
tuted :  for,  according  to  the  rights  and  usages  of  the  bards  of  Britain, 
neither  a  chair  nor  Gorsedd  can  consist  of  less  than  three  primitive 
bards  of  efficiency,  that  is — of  convention ;  for  a  majority  of  Yoiees 
cannot  be  ascertained  except  three,  at  least,  be  present ;  and  no 
judgment  of  Gorsedd  can  be  given  otherwise  than  by  a  majority. 

Where  but  one  bard  of  efficiency  can  be  found,  according  to  the 
rights  and  judgment  of  Gorsedd,  that  one  may,  under  the  justifi- 
cation of  reason,  circumstance,  and  necessity,  legitimately  confer 
degrees  and  chairs  on  two  poetic  aspirants,  when  he  can  certify  on 
his  word  and  conscience,  that  they  possess  the  qualifications  requi- 
site for  bardic  poets  ;  for,  except  by  such  means,  the  instruction  of 
British  bards  could  not  be  perpetuated ;  and,  according  to  law  and 
usage,  ^necessity  is  paramount  strength;**  and  hence  it  is,  that  the 
bards  and  bardism  of  Britain  may  be  preserved  from  dormancy 
and  ultimate  extinction;  which  can  be  effected  only  while  primitive 
bards  of  the  class  of  poets  remain ;  for  bardism  originally  emanated 
from  poets,  and  nothing  can  in  anywise  exist  but  by  virtue  of  its 
generic  principle.  The  law  of  necessity  enjoins  that  the  number 
of  bards  indispensably  requisite  should  be  completed  in  the  most 
available  manner,  when  the  best  institutional  course  cannot  be 
adopted;  thus  conforming  to  necessity,  where  no  better  alternative 
offered  ;  hence  this  law  cannot  become  operative,  except  under  the 
immediate  influence  of  reason  and  circumstance  ;  still  it  is  justifi- 
able to  act  according  to  it,  when  judgment  cannot  be  obtained  from 
the  verdict  of  a  majority  of  voices : — but  necessity  being  superseded 
in  the  manner  described,  it  would  not  be  defensible  to  graduate  a 
bard  otherwise  than  constitutionally; — ^that  is,  either  by  the  verdict 
and  judgment  of  Gorsedd,  or  by  national  suffrage,  after  ayearanda 
day'*s  notice,  and  then  proceeding  by  greeting  and  claim,  until  con- 
ventional efficiency  be  attained. 

A  person  is  deemed  a  supporter  of  kindred  and  country  who  has 
recourse  to  the  law  of  necessity  to  effectuate  beneficial  purpoeee, 
under  the  influence  of  reason  and  circumstance,  when  urgwicy 
might  not  properly  allow  sufficient  time  for  ascertaining  the  sen» 
of  the  nation,  or  the  verdict  of  a  Gorsedd,  determined  by^the  majer 
number:  but  whosoever  shall  reject  prescribed  usage  firom 
motives  of  ambition  or  presumption,  will  be  stigmatised  as  an  enemy 
to  kindred  and  country,  when,  at  the  same  time,  a  just  national 
verdict,  by  the  choice  and  suffrage  of  a  majority,  might  hate 
been  obtained,  and,  consequently,  ought  to  have  been  adopted;^-<^» 


BAfiDS    OP   THE   ISLAND   OF   BRITAIN.  437 

when  the  jadgment  of  Gorsedd  could  have  been  sought,  according 
to  the  rights  and  usages  of  efficiency  in  the  primary  manner ;  that 
is,  according  to  a  law  originating  in  national  suffrage ;  which  law  of 
reason  and  judgment  constitutes  th  e  ruling  principle  of  the  bards 
of  Britain,  and  can  neither  be  contravened  not  dispensed  with. 

When  no  bard  of  the  order  of  conventional  poets  can  be  found 
extant,  bardism,  and  the  rights  and  usages  of  the  bards  of  Britain, 
become  dormant,  and  cannot  be  legally  resuscitated,  but  by  na- 
tional suffrage  at  the  expiration  of  a  year  and  a  day^s  notice,  and 
repeated  in  that  manner  for  three  consecutive  years ;  and  then 
advancing  progressively  by  greeting  and  claim,  until  efficiency  be 
obtained,  according  to  the  mode  already  described,  as  adopted  in 
the  time  of  Prydain,  the  son  of  Aedd  the  Great. 

The  bards  of  the  island  of  Britain  are  divided  into  three  kindred 
orders,  according  to  the  rights  of  primitive  bards ;  and  every  mem- 
ber of  those  three  distinctive  classes  is  called  a  primitive  bard, 
being  80  by  common  origin,  according  to  the  ordinance,  usage,  and 
rights  of  the  primordial  Gorsedd  of  the  bards  of  Britain  in  the 
time  of  Prydain,  the  son  of  Aedd  the  Great.  The  first  order  is 
that  of  poets,  or  primitive  bards  positive,  called  also — Primitive 
bards  acceding  to  the  original  institution ;  a  distinction  which  no 
one  can  attain  but  a  poet  of  innate  and  scientific  genius,  and  of 
progression  ;  and  the  duties  incumbent  on  this  class  are — to  com- 
pose poetry,  to  perpetuate  the  traditions  of  rights  and  usages,  and 
to  rescue  bardism  from  corruption  and  oblivion.  The  second  order 
is  that  of  Ovates,  who  are  not  expected  to  have  undergone  progres- 
sive discipline,  but  depend  on  prospective  graduation  at  Gorsedd : 
for  an  ovate  is  simply  a  person  of  innate  genius,  application,  and 
chance ;  and  his  duties  are — to  improve  and  enlarge  knowledge, 
and  to  submit  his  perfomianco  to  the  judgment  of  Gorsedd,  until 
declared  efficient  in  authority.  The  third  order  is  that  of  Druids, 
which  must  be  appointed  either  from  the  class  of  poets  or  that  of 
ovates,  by  the  verdict  and  judgment  of  Gorsedd.  A  druid  acts  in 
accordance  with  reason,  circumstance,  and  necessity,  and  his  duties 
are — ^to  instruct,  hold  subordinate  chairs  and  conventions,  and  keep 
up  divine  worship  at  the  quarterly  lunar  holy-days.  It  is  incum- 
bent on  him,  also,  to  initiate,  persons  into  the  secrets  of  bardism, 
and  to  inculcate  godliness,  wisdom,  and  good  morals.  The  rights 
and  appellation  of  primitive  bard  appertain  to  every  member  of 
each  of  the  said  three  orders ;  the  whole  of  them  being  coequal  in 
privileges  and  dignity. 


438        THE  VOICE  CONVENTIONAL  OF  THE 

The  course  pursued  in  graduating  an  ovate  is — ^first,  to  place 
him  under  the  examination  of  a  chief  of  song,  that  is,  of  a  primi- 
tive conventional  hard,  who  shall  testify,  upon  his  word  and  con- 
science, that  he  possesses  the  qualities  requisite  for  a  bard ;  he, 
then,  must  seek  the  verdict  and  judgment  of  Gorsedd,  and  if 
pronounced  efficient,  will  thereby  attain  the  rights  of  a  primordial 
bard,  and  be  qualified  to  exercise  in  Gorsedd  the  functions  of  a 
progressively  instituted  primitive  bard  of  that  order. 

A  primordial  bard  may  assume  the  grade  and  rights  of  an  ovate, 
by  virtue  of  the  extent  of  knowledge  and  poetic  genius  requisite 
for  a  primitive  ovate  which  he  may  display  before  a  Gor^d, 
with  no  other  protective  ceremony  than  that  of  greeting;  and 
those  qualifications  imply  the  improvement  and  extension  of 
learning. 

A  primitive  bard  is  entitled  to  an  ovate^s  degree,  who  shall, 
upon  his  word  and  conscience,  recommend  any  one  as  a  person 
duly  qualified  to  be  a  bard,  if  the  person  so  recommended  obtain, 
in  consequence,  the  affirming  judgment  and  protection  of  a  Gorsedd; 
for  it  is  considered,  that  whoever  shall  form  a  just  estimate  of  the 
poetic  genius  and  science  of  any  person,  and  have  that  opinion 
conventionally  confirmed,  must  fully  understand  such  attainments, 
and  know  to  what  extent  they  are  calculated  to  qualify  their  pos- 
sessor for  graduation  and  privileges  :  hence  we  see  that  there  are 
two  classes  of  ovates,  namely,  the  primitive  ovate,  and  the  ovtóe 
by  privilege,  that  is,  a  primitive  bard  either  of  the  order  of  poets 
or  of  druids,  who  may  have  obtained  an  ovate'*s  degree  in  Gorsedd, 
by  virtue  of  his  exertions  in  favour  of  an  aspirant,  who  had,  there- 
upon, been  legally  constituted  a  primitive  ovate  in  Gorsedd. 

A  primitive  ovate  is  entitled  to  exercise  in  Gorsedd  the  functionfl 
of  a  primitive  bard  of  the  original  order,  if  no  poet  either  by  pro- 
gression, or  by  the  claim  and  the  privileges  of  efficiency,  be  present 
there. 

When  a  bard  of  the  order  of  primitive  ovates  becomes  a  primi- 
tive bard,  he  is  designated  a  primitive  bard  by  privilege,  and  not 
a  primitive  bard  of  the  original  order ;  but  to  obtain  the  latter 
grade,  it  Mrill  only  be  requisite  for  him  to  submit  his  own  composi- 
tion to  the  judgment  of  a  Gorsedd  of  vocal  song,  so  as  to  ascertain 
whether  it  be  deemed  worthy  of  conventional  sanction  or  not ;  if 
adopted  thereby,  he  will  be  pronounced  a  poet,  and  be  entitled  to 
the  privileges  and  office  of  a  primitive  bard. 

When  a  bard  of  the  original  ovate  order  takes  a  chair  in  Gorsedd, 


BARDS   OF   THE   ISLAND    OF   BRITAIN.  439 

in  the  absence  of  a  primitive  bard  of  the  original  order,  and  exer- 
cises the  functions  and  privileges  of  that  grade,  if  his  proceedings 
on  that  occasion  be  sanctioned  by  another  Gorsedd,  according  to 
rights  and  privileges,  and  finally  confirmed  in  efficiency,  he  shall 
be  entitled  to  claim  and  exercise  the  functions  of  a  primitive  bard 
or  poet : — and  some  say,  that  none  but  persons  of  this  particular 
class  are  justly  entitled  to  the  appellation  of  graduates  by  privilege, 
and  that  they  should  not  be  denominated  graduates  of  the  original 
order, — a  designation  that  appertains  solely  to  primitive  bards  of 
the  order  of  poets  by  progression. 

A  druid  is  graduated  by  conventional  suffrage  and  judgment ; 
but,  if  previously  a  primitive  bard  of  the  original  order,  an  election 
by  bidlot  only  will  be  requisite  to  substantiate  his  efficiency  ;  for 
every  conventional  transaction  effected  either  by,  or  on  account  of, 
a  chair-bard  in  Gorsedd,  shall  be  deemed  efficient,  without  the 
preparatory  steps  of  greeting  and  claim ;  such  bard  being  already 
a  person  by  claim,  and  acting  under  the  protection  of  that  pri- 
yilege. 

A  primitive  ovate  may  be  made  a  druid  by  conventional  suf- 
finge, — a  proceeding  that  would  establish  his  efficiency.  Some 
have  asserted,  that  a  disciple  by  progression  in  poetry  may  be 
graduated  a  druid,  and  that,  thence,  he  would  become  one  of  the 
primitive  order  of  that  grade ;  but  it  is  an  erroneous  opinion,  for 
a  disciple,  by  progression,  in  poetry  must,  to  be  so,  possess  the 
genius  of  vocal  song  ;  and,  consequently,  be  a  poet,  according  to 
the  protection  and  claim  of  the  Bards  of  Britain ;  therefore,  he 
cannot,  in  accordance  with  inherent  distinction  and  usage,  receive 
any  other  degree  than  that  of  poet,  or  primitive  bard  of  the  original 
order :  for  when  any  person  of  progressive  discipline  in  vocal  song 
obtains  a  degree  by  the  verdict  and  judgment  of  Gorsedd,  the  dis- 
tinction so  conferred  must  be  that  of  primitive  bard  of  the  original 
order,  notwithstanding  any  thing  that  may  possibly  be  said,  con- 
ceived, or  urged  to  the  contrary :  but  it  is  also  very  certain,  that 
the  person  so  graduated  may,  immediately  after,  and,  as  it  were 
by  the  same  breath,  be  also  constituted  a  druid. 

Of  what  grade  soever  a  druid  may  be, — or  (if  by  progression) 
were  he  but  an  endowed  disciple  by  protection, — if  he  assume,  in 
chair  or  Gorsedd,  the  office  or  functions  of  any  other  grade,  provided 
that  such  proceedings  be  sanctioned  by  a  subsequent  Gorsedd  or 
chair,  he  shall,  under  the  conventional  rights  of  claim,  acknow- 
ledgment, and  protection,  be  considered  a  graduate  of  the  dignity 


440        THE  VOICE  CONVENTIONAL  OF  THE 

which  he  assumed,  upon  the  very  same  principle  that  a  person 
may  become  a  primitive  bard  by  attesting  such  truths  in  Gorsedd, 
upon  his  word  and  conscience,  as  shall  obtain  conventional  gradua- 
tion for  an  ovate  ; — ^for  he  will  be  considered,  in  adopting  such  a 
course,  as  merely  submitting  to  reason  and  circumstance,  under 
the  law  of  necessity  and  conviction,  that  made  it  imperative  on 
him  to  exercise  the  functions  of  a  druid  ; — ^for  nothing  can  be  effi- 
ciently carried  into  effect,  that  is  not  well  understood ;  and  such 
a  thorough  comprehension  will  be  inferred,  if  the  extraordinary 
transaction,  arising  from  the  causes  stated,  obtain  the  protection 
and  aiGrming  judgment  of  another  Gorsedd.  Such  are  the  reasons 
that  entitle  a  person  to  a  degree,  by  privilege,  in  the  order  that 
he  assumed  and  explained  so  well,  without  any  progressive  step, 
beyond  that  of  proclamation  and  notice  in  Gorsedd.  An  ovate, 
exercising  the  functions  of  a  bard,  will  be  entitled  to  similar  pri- 
vileges, if  his  proceedings  be  likewise  affirmed  by  a  subsequent 
Gk)rsedd.  By  the  functions  of  a  bard,  are  meant — ^the  compoeition 
of  poetry,  and  the  perpetuation  of  oral  tradition.  But  if  an  ovate 
exercise  assumed  functions,  under  the  control  of  reason,  circum- 
stance, and  necessity,  and  obtain  conventional  protection  for  such 
a  course,  he  will  thereupon  become  a  druid,  and  be  consequently 
entitled,  by  privilege,  to  perform  religious  duties,  and  to  hold  in- 
•ferior  chairs  and  subordinate  conventions,  at  the  usual  and  legally 
prescribed  periods. 

It  is  not  necessary  that  a  poet,  of  the  original  grade  of  primitive 
bards,  should  await  the  general  course  of  conventional  graduation, 
to  be  qualified  for  the  office  of  a  druid,  and  to  exercise  its  functions, 
further  than  that  previous  announcement  to  that  effect  must  be 
audibly  made,  by  proclamation  in  Gorsedd  or  chair ;  for  a  person 
of  his  order  is  known  to  be  already  a  graduate  of  all  efficient 
knowledge,  according  to  the  privileges  of  bardism  and  poetry ;  for 
upon  him  devolve  the  duties  of  sustaining  oral  tradition,  and  pub- 
licly transmitting  information  relating  to  bardism,  which  he  couU 
not  effect  unless  he  had  previously  attained  a  true  and  thorough 
knowledge  of  that  science ;  and  that,  too,  under  the  affirmation  of 
a  Gorsedd ;  wherefore  every  person  possessed  of  such  ratified 
knowledge  in  poetry  and  bardism,  whatever  be  his  grade,  is  at 
liberty  to  exercise  the  office,  the  knowledge,  or  the  science  for,  or 
in  which  he  may  be  considered  qualified  by  the  attestation  of 
Gorsedd,  without  any  further  conventional  sanction  ;  so  that  the 
grade  of  druid  will,  at  once,  be  conferred  on  him  in  stability  and 


BARDS   OF   THE   ISLAND   OF   BRITAIN.  441 

efficiency ;  except  that  discretion  would,  in  conformity  to  usage, 
suggest  the  propriety  of  audibly  announcing  all  such  transactions 
by  proclamation  in  Gorsedd,  to  obviate  disorder  or  any  deviation 
from  usage. 

There  are  two  classes  of  aspirants  in  poetry,  namely,  progressors 
under  protection,  and  progressors  by  privilege.  A  progressor  under 
protection,  is  one  whom  a  chief  of  song,  of  the  order  of  conventional 
poets,  shall  take  under  his  tuition  to  initiate,  and  render  perfect, 
in  the  art  of  poetry,  the  secrets  of  bardism,  and  the  oral  traditions 
^>pertaining  to  the  rights  and  usages  of  the  bards  of  the  Island  of 
Britain;  and  who  shall  remain  under  such  tutelage  until  he  acquire 
aU  that  knowledge.  He  then  must  greet  a  Gorsedd  for  his  degree ; 
and,  if  received  under  its  protection,  he  will  be  designated  a  pro- 
gressor by  privilege,  or,  in  other  terms,  an  endowed  disciple  under 
protection ;  for  he  will  be  entitled  to  a  poet's  endowment  under 
the  protection  of  Gorsedd, — that  is,  to  the  portion  of  an  alien'*s 
son,  together  with  the  immunities,  by  courtesy,  of  a  native  Cam- 
brian; and  so  he  shall  remain,  until  he  become  a  conventional 
graduate,  that  is,  a  poet  by  the  verdict  and  judgment  of  a  Gt)rsedd 
of  efficiency ;  or,  in  other  words,  a  poet  of  Gorsedd  or  primitive 
bard  of  the  original  order. 

There  are  two  sorts  of  protection ;  the  first  of  which  is  termed — 
the  protection  of  the  Bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  within  the^ 
pale  of  which  every  primitive  Cambrian  is  included,  who,  if  versed 
in  bardic  learning  and  bardism,  is  entitled  to  rank  among  loyal 
patriots ;  for  all  others  are  stigmatised  as  persons  of  devastation 
and  anarchy  :  the  second  sort  is — conventional  protection,  which 
results  from  greeting  a  Gorsedd,  and  obtaining  thereby  its  sanc- 
tion ; — for  such  protection  simply  signifies  the  verdict  and  judg- 
ment of  Gorsedd  in  support  of  the  application,  so  far  as  to  assert 
that  it  may  properly  bo  granted.  It  is  by  a  similar  course  that  a 
progressor  under  protection  proceeds  to  greet  a  Gorsedd,  obtains 
its  affimation  of  his  competency  for  the  order  of  poets,  and  becomes, 
thereupon,  a  progressor  by  privilege.  The  expression — '  protection 
of  Gt)rsedd,'*  implies  the  privileges  conferred  by  the  aforesaid  judi- 
cial affirmation ;  and  all  national  and  territorial  lords  are  entitled 
to  those  privileges,  as  well  as  all  authorities  by  national  suffrage, 
all  magistrates,  teachers,  and  ministers  of  religion, — all  sons  of 
aliens  acting  under  the  appointment  of  their  lords  and  the  nation, — 
all  residents,  by  domestic  and  foreign  permission, — all  functionaries 
of  peace  and  justice, — and  all  persons  who  may  make  improvements 


442        THE  VOICE  CONVENTIONAL  OF  THE 

and  discover  superior  modes  of  circulating  knowledge  in  arts  and 
sciences,  tending  to  benefit  vital  existence.  The  protection  ex- 
tended to  a  bard  already  graduated  in  Gk)r8edd,  implies  a  permis- 
sion to  proceed,  from  greeting  to  sanction,  for  a  higher  degree ; — 
by  which  proceeding  he  will  be  established  in  efficiency.  The 
protection  of  an  endowed  disciple,  or  progressor  by  privilege,  is, 
that  he  continue  in  his  right  of  conventional  greeting,  until  he 
attain  a  chair ;  in  which  position  he  must  remain,  by  conventional 
claim,  for  a  year ;  and  then,  if  protected  by  another  Gorsedd, 
another  chair  will  be  conferred  on  him ;  and,  at  the  end  of  another 
year,  he  will  appear  in  Gorsedd  by  avouchment,  until  he  obtain 
its  protection  also,  when  a  chair  will  be  again  awarded  to  him, 
and,  thereupon,  he  will  acquire  efficiency  in  Gorsedd,  according  to 
the  rights  and  usages  of  the  bardâ  of  the  Island  of  Britain. 

If  a  poet,  of  the  class  of  endowed  disciples  by  protection,  obtain 
a  chair  in  each  of  three  different  provinces,  within  the  same  year, 
and  that  such  distinctions  be  exhibited  at  a  Gorsedd  of  the  bards 
of  Britain,  at  his  earliest  convenience,  be  shall  be  pronounced  a 
conventional  bard  of  the  primitive  order,  as  originally  infitituted. 

The  endowments  of  a  conventional  bard  are  as  follows  : — ^Inde- 
pendent of  his  right  to  five  acres  in  free  tenure,  as  a  Cambrian  of 
primitive  descent,  he  is  entitled  to  other  five  acres,  in  free  tenure, 
or  their  equivalent,  to  be  proportionately  levied  on  ploughs  by 
national  and  professional  suffrage.  He  will  likewise  be  entitled  to 
an  allowance  for  his  poem,  according  as  it  may  be  estimated  either 
at  a  Gorsedd  of  province  and  lords,  or  by  the  suffirage  of  the  dis- 
trict. A  bard  of  learning  and  holy  duties  has  also  a  claim  to 
similar  emoluments.  A  poet  is  entitled  to  a  perquisite  from  every 
royal  nuptials,  and  from  every  wedding  of  persons  genteelly  de- 
scended,— ^that  is,  of  every  Oambrian  pair  of  aboriginal  genealogy, 
as  a  remuneration  for  keeping  their  family  traditions  and  pedigrees, 
so  as  to  protect  their  native  rights.  An  allowance  is  also  due  for 
every  poem  and  tradition  in  commemoration  of  any  praiseworthy 
action.  If  the  laudable  deed  was  performed  by  an  individual,  the 
poet^s  perquisite  is  confirmed  by  strong  usage;  but  if  it  was 
the  achievement  of  country  and  kindred,  he  will  be  allowed  a  pro- 
fessional circuit  for  remuneration  for  such  patriotic  poem  and 
traditional  preservation.  He  will  also  be  entitled  to  bounties  by 
courtesy ;  but,  where  no  such  custom  exists,  his  perquisites  will 
be,  a  penny  from  every  plough.  All  such  traditional  poems  must, 
however,  in  the  first  place,  be  submitted  to  the  adjudication  of  a 


BARDS  OF   THE   ISLAND    OF  BRITAIN.  443 

(^orsedd,  so  as  duly  to  ascertain  their  veritable  and  scientific 
character,  before  they  entitle  their  authors  to  the  privilege  of  pro- 
fessional circuits. — Bards  and  progressors  by  privilege  are  likewise 
entitled,  triennially,  to  professional  circuits ;  and  they  may  also  re- 
ceive gifts  by  courtesy,  but  neither  law  nor  custom  prescribes  such 
bounties,  beyond  the  usage  of  affection,  respect,  and  liberality. 

Every  thing  in  accordance  with  reason  may  be  included  within 
the  pale  of  custom ;  and  every  thing  in  accordance  with  reason 
and  inherence  is  subject  to  custom  and  privilege;  but  where  reason, 
inherence,  and  necessity  concur,  they  constitute  law.  By  necessity 
is  meant  an  emergency  that  calls  for  extraordinary  powers  to  effect 
a  greater  extent  of  good  than  could  be  otherwise  attainable.  It 
was  ander  the  combined  rights  of  reason,  inherence,  and  necessity, 
that  the  primitive  privileges  and  customs  of  the  British  bards  were 
at  first  instituted ;  consequently,  it  is  adjudged  that  every  poet, 
who  is  a  primitive  bard  of  the  original  order,  must,  also,  be  a  pri- 
mordial druid.  In  the  earlier  ages,  privileges  and  customs  could 
not  be  conferred  on  the  bards  of  Britain,  unless  they  possessed 
poetic  genius,  energy,  and  incident,  and  had  also  been  graduated 
by  progression  ;  and  it  is  on  this  principle  that  the  privileges  and 
requisites  of  an  ovate  are  established ;  therefore,  possessing  those 
qualifications,  he  becomes  a  primitive  bard  according  to  the  original 
order;  for  no  other  course  could  have  been  adopted  at  the  com- 
mencement;— and  that  whicli  emanated  from  reason,  inherency, 
and  necessity  will  continue  so,  coexistent  with  life  and  being. — 
It  was  the  person  who  possessed  the  best  and  most  correct  infor- 
mation in  oral  tradition,  and  had  the  highest  powers  of  retention,  that 
first  taught  such  knowledge  and  science  in  the  primitive  Grorsedd 
of  the  bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain ;  consequently,  a  poet  by  pro- 
gressive discipline  is  the  person  most  firmly  established  in  those  requi- 
sites, and  hence,  he  must  be  the  most  competent  person,  according  to 
right  reason  and  inherence,  to  hold  the  office,  exercise  the  privileges, 
and  fulfil  the  obligation  of  perpetuating,  by  oral  tradition  and  reten- 
tion, the  mysteries,  science,  and  knowledge  of  the  bards  of  Britain. 
From  what  has  been  already  shown,  it  cannot  be  now  determined 
which  of  the  three  kindred  orders  of  primitive  bards  was  the  origi- 
nal one,  or  which  of  them  was  the  best  and  most  beneficial ;  hence 
they  are  all  considered  as  coequal  in  dignity ;  and  all  their  members, 
after  graduation  in  a  Gorsedd  of  efficiency,  continue  in  reciprocal 
ooeqnality  with  regard  to  dignity,  influence,  and  reverence ;  and 
thev  are  accounted  as  chiefs  and  bridges,  above  all  others. 

3    L 


444        THE  VOICE  CONVENTIONAL  OF  THE 

They  are  chiefs  over  all,  because  their  testimony  is  considered 
in  law  as  paramount  to  that  of  every  person  who  is  not  a  bard; 
for  it  is  neither  consistent  with  nature  nor  reason,  that  the  evi- 
dence of  a  bard  should  not  be  superior  in  veracity,  knowledge,  and 
stability,  to  that  of  any  person  who  is  not  a  bard :  and  the  reason 
that  they  should  become  bridges  to  all,  is — the  obligation  they  are 
under  to  teach  all  good  and  true  men  of  the  nation,  and  mankind 
generally,  by  conducting  them  over  the  bogs  of  ignorance,  and  so 
become  in  effect  paths  and  bridges  to  them. 

Nothing  can  acquire  the  character  of  substantiated  truth  that 
has  not  been  admitted  into  privilege  by  the  voice  conventional 
of  the  bards  of  Britain,  which  should  be  made  the  medium  of 
announcement  for  all  knowledge  advanced  in  Gorsedd,  until  con- 
firmed in  efficiency ;  for  no  testimony,  nor  usage,  can  in  anywise 
contravene  its  effect.  By  voice  conventional  is  meant — ^the  reẁ- 
tations  given  in  Gorsedd  of  the  oral  traditions  retained  by  the  bards 
of  the  Island  of  Britain,  relative  to  circumstances  and  sciences  that 
had  been  conventionally  verified,  and  ultimately  established  in 
efficiency ;  for  nothing  can  be  admitted  as  substsmtiated  in  truth, 
but  that  which  has  been  progressively  submitted  to  the  national 
Gorsedd  of  bards,  until  ratified  thereby,  and  which  has,  conse- 
quently, been  pubUcly  inculcated  by  conventional  promulgation, 
and  by  efficient  vocal  song. 

No  privileges  can  be  conferred  on  any  poem,  speech,  or  usage  in 
Gorsedd,  if  such  be  untrue,  unpacific,  or  illegal;  for  falsehood, 
discord,  and  illegality  cannot  be  permitted  in  any  poem,  oration, 
tradition,  or  conduct,  by  the  bards  of  Britain ;  their  attribute 
being — to  support  and  strengthen  veracity,  peace,  and  law,  and  to 
resist  every  thing  that  may  in  anywise  tend  to  contravene  those 
moral  principles. 

Eveiy  candidate  for  privileges  by  vocal  song  and  bardism, 
according  to  the  rights  of  the  bards  of  Britain,  should  apply  to  a 
bardic  teacher  of  conventional  graduation,  for  instruction  in  the 
judicial  decisions,  oral  traditions,  and  promulgating  voice  of  Gor- 
sedd. The  teacher  shall,  then,  introduce  such  candidate  to  con- 
vention, as  a  disciple  in  poetry,  or  progressor  by  protection,  under 
the  auspices  of  the  bards  of  Britain ;  after  which  he  shall  take 
him  under  his  tuition,  and  impart  general  knowledge  to  him :  it 
will  then  be  his  duty  to  present  him  to  a  chair  or  Gorsedd  at  least 
once  a  year;  and  to  a  minor  chair,  or  subordinate  Gorsedd,  at  least 
three  times  a  year,  that  he  may  thus  become  conversant  in  li^ts 


BARDS  OF  THE  ISLAND   OF   BRITAIN.  445 

and  usages,  and  in  the  oral  traditions  retained  by  bards  and  voice 
conyentional.  The  teacher  should,  also,  present  to  a  chair  or 
Grorsedd,  at  least  once  a  year,  a  song,  or  recitative  poem, 
composed  by  his  progressing  disciple,  and  solicit  the  opinion  of 
any  conventional  judge  who  may  be  disposed  to  give  it  according 
to  reason  and  understanding.  When  the  progressing  disciple 
shall,  in  this  manner,  have  acquired  requisite  knowledge  in  the 
art  of  vocal  song,  and  shall  know  the  three  memorials  of  tradition, 
the  rights,  usages,  and  mysteries  of  bardism,  the  cardinal  points 
of  wisdom,  and  be  capable  of  composing  a  vocal  song  that  shall  be 
pronounced  faultless  in  the  estimation  of  a  chief  of  song, — ^that  is, 
of  a  conventional  bard, — let  him  greet  a  Gorsedd,  and  go  on  pro- 
gressively, until  he  shall  have  advanced  to  the  full  extent  of  his 
capacity,  according  to  the  institutional  course  of  proceeding  already 
described. 

Now  follows  an  account  of  things  that  appertain  to  institutional 
ceremonies,  and  that  accord  with  the  reason  and  inherence  obser- 
vable in  the  reminiscence  and  customs  of  the  bards  of  the  Island 
of  Britain ;  but  which,  nevertheless,  are  not  considered  as  indis- 
pensably requisite  parts  of  the  system ;  because  every  truth  and 
knowledge,— every  recollection  and  retention, — as  well  as  every 
art  and  science,  may  be  acquired  without  them : — still  they  cor^ 
roborate  and  illustrate  reminiscences  and  primary  regulations ;  for 
which  reason,  it  is  deemed  laudable  to  perpetuate  them  in  memory 
and  usage ;  especially  as  they  comprise  the  ancient  forms  trans- 
mitted, in  continuity,  by  the  retentive  memory  of  Gorsedd. 

It  is  an  institutional  usage  to  form  a  conventional  circle  of 
stones,  on  the  summit  of  some  conspicuous  ground ;  so  as  to  en- 
close any  requisite  area  of  greensward ;  the  stones  being  so  placed 
as  to  allow  sufficient  space  for  a  man  to  stand  between  each  two  of 
them ;  except  that  the  two  stones  of  the  circle  which  most  directly 
confront  the  eastern  sun,  should  be  sufficiently  apart  to  allow  at 
least  ample  space  for  three  men  between  them ;  thus  affording  an 
easy  ingress  to  the  circle.  This  larger  space  is  called  the  entrance 
or  portal;  in  front  of  which,  at  the  distance  either  of  three  fathoms, 
or  of  three  times  three  fathoms,  a  stone,  called  station  stone^  should 
be  so  placed  as  to  indicate  the  eastern  cardinal  point ;  to  the  north 
of  which,  another  stone  should  be  placed,  so  as  to  face  the  eye  of  the 
rising  sun,  at  the  longest  summer's  day ;  and,  to  the  south  of  it,  an 
additional  one,  pointing  to  the  position  of  the  rising  sun,  at  the 
shortest  winter's  dav.     These  three  are  called  station  stones  :  but, 


446        THE  VOICE  CONVENTIONAL  OP  THE 

ÌD  the  centre  of  the  circle,  a  stone,  larger  than  the  others,  should 
be  so  placed,  that  diverging  lines,  drawn  from  jts  middle  to  the 
three  station  stones,  may  point  severally,  and  directly,  to  the 
three  particular  positions  of  the  rising  sun,  which  they  indicate. 

The  stones  of  the  circle  are  called  sacred  stones,  and  stones  of 
testimony ; — and  the  centre  stone,  is  variously  called  the  stone  of 
presidency,  the  altar  of  Gorsedd,  the  stone  of  compact,  and  the 
perfection  stone.  The  whole  circle,  formed  as  described,  is  called 
the  greensward-enclosing  circle,  the  circle  of  presidency,  and  the 
circle  of  sacred  refuge;  but  it  is  called  trum  (circle)  in  some 
countries.  The  bards  assemble  in  convention  within  this  cirde; 
and  it  accords  neither  with  usage  nor  decency  for  any  other  per- 
son to  enter  it,  unless  desired  to  do  so  by  a  bard. 

It  is  enjoined  by  primitive  usage,  that  one  of  the  presidential 
bards  should  bear  a  sheathed  sword, — holding  it  by  the  point ;  a 
bard  not  being  permitted  to  hold  it  by  the  hilt :  for  when  taken 
by  the  point,  whether  naked  or  sheathed,  it  is  not  supposed  to  be 
either  held,  borne,  or  bared  against  a  human  being,  or  any  other 
object,  whether  animate  or  inanimate,  throughout  the  worid. 
When  the  sword,  thus  held,  is  carried  to  the  conventional  circle, 
it  must  be  pressed  out,  by  hand,  in  a  contrary  direction  to  its 
point,  until  quite  unsheathed  ;  then,  being  taken  by  the  point,  it 
must  be  laid  on  the  altar-stone  of  the  Gorsedd,  and  the  super-pro- 
clamation shall  ensue ;  but  when  the  voice  shall  come  to  the  part 
which  says,  ''where  no  naked  weapou.  will  be  presented  against 
them,^^  every  bard  must  move  onward  to  the  altar-stone,  and  lay 
his  hand  on  either  the  sword  or  its  sheath,  while  the  presiding  baid 
shall  take  its  point  and  put  it  just  within  the  sheath ;  upon  whidi 
it  shall  be  driven  quite  in  by  all  the  assistant  bards,  with  concur- 
rent  hand  and  purpose.  This  usage  is  observed,  to  testify  that 
the  bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain  are  men  of  peace  and  heavenly 
tranquillity ;  and  that,  consequently,  they  bear  no  naked  weapon 
against  any  one.  At  the  termination  of  this  proclamation,  the 
objects  of  the  convention  must  be  successively  effected ;  for  whidi 
purpose  it  will  be  necessary  to  recite  and  explain  the  three  ancient 
vehicles  and  voices  of  Gorsedd ;  to  recite  an  ancient  poem ;  to  pro- 
duce new  poems  presented  for  judgment,  and  to  repeat  them  audi- 
bly to  the  meeting ;  to  announce  applications  by  greeting,  claim, 
and  efficiency:  to  confer  degrees  on  deserving  merit;  and  to  hear, 
do,  and  speaJc  all  requisite  things,  according  to  rights  and  usages, 
and  consistent  with  reason,  inherence,  and  necessity.    The  tasi- 


BARDS   OF  THE  ISLAND   OF    BRITAIN.  447 

ness  of  the  chair  or  Gtorsedd  being  thus  accomplished,  the  termin- 
ating  proclamatiçn  shall  be  made,  the  Gorsedd  closed,  and  every 
one  return  to  his  home. 

Usage  enjoins  that  every  bard  shall  stand  uncovered,  head  and 
feet,  in  Gorsedd,  to  evince  his  reverence  and  submission  to  God. 

The  ceremony  of  conventional  asseveration  prescribes,  that  the 
witness  shall  stand  in  Gorsedd,  hold  in  his  hand  a  poet's  staff, 
look  in  the  face  of  the  sun,  and  the  eye  of  light,  and,  in  this  posi- 
tion, give  evidence  upon  his  word  and  conscience : — or,  according 
to  another  form,  he  must  put  his  hand  in  that  of  the  presiding 
bard,  that  is,  the  chief  of  song,  or  chair-bard,  and  give  evidence 
upon  his  word  and  conscience,  looking,  the  while,  in  the  face  of  the 
sun  and  the  eye  of  light. 

A  hardy's  robe  must  be  of  one  uniform  colour ;  but  every  chief 
bard,  to  whichsoever  of  the  three  grades  he  may  belong,  has  a 
proper  and  distinctive  colour,  suitable  to  his  own  order. 

A  poet,  if  also  a  primitive  chief  bard,  wears  a  robe  of  that  sky- 
blue  colour  which  is  perceptible  in  serene  summer  weather,  as  an 
emblematic  indication  of  peace  and  heavenly  tranquillity ;  and  sig. 
nifying,  likewise,  that  light,  and  all  other  visible  things,  are  best 
seen  through  the  medium  of  that  colour.  This  robe,  being  of  uni- 
formly light  blue  colour,  presents,  also,  a  symbol  of  truth,  which 
is  unicoloured  throughout,  and  all  over,  whether  considered  in  its 
analytical  aggregate,  or  varied  position,  and  presents  no  change 
whatever,  from  any  possible  circumstance. 

A  druid'^s  robe  is  entirely  and  uniformly  white,  to  indicate 
purity  of  conduct,  learning,  and  piety ;  for  white  is  both  the  colour 
and  emblem  of  iisht,  A  druid'^s  robe  is  uniformlv  white,  in  em- 
blem,  also,  of  truth. 

An  ovate's  robe  shall  be  green,  to  signify,  in  emblem,  the 
growth  and  increase  of  learning  and  science :  it  is,  also,  uniformly 
green,  to  present  a  symbol  of  truth. 

Every  conventional  bard,  of  whatever  order  he  may  be,  shall 
hold  in  his  hand,  at  Gorsedd,  a  stick  or  altar-staff,  a  fathom  in 
length,  and  coloured  uniformly  with  his  robe;  but  progressors 
shall  severally  bear  a  staff  of  the  three  bardic  colours  intermixed, 
to  indicate  progression.  They  shall  also  wear  a  bandlet  of  the 
same  colours  around  the  right  arm.  If,  however,  the  poetic  aspi- 
rant be  merely  under  protection,  the  length  of  his  staff  shall  be 
only  half  a  fathom ;  but  if  an  endowed  disciple  by  right,  it  shall 
be  a  fathom  long. 


448  MOTTOS  OF  THE  DIFFERENT  CHAIRS. 

Gonventional  bards,  when  not  in  full  robes,  having  no  occasion  for 
them,  must  each  wear  a  bandlet  about  his  right  arm,  and  suitable, 
in  colour,  to  his  own  particular  class  or  grade ;  an  usage  that  has 
mostly  prevailed  among  the  bards  since  they  lost  their  endow- 
ments. 


THE  MOTTOS  OF  THE  DIFFERENT  CHAIRS  OF 
THE  ISLAND  OF  BRITAIN. 

The  Chair  of  the  Bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain — Truth  against 

the  World. 

Glamorgan  or  Siluria — God  and  all  goodness. 

The  Round  Table  of  Arthur,  op  Taliesin,  and  of  Tib  Iarll 

(EarFs  Land) — Nothing  is  truly  good  that  may  be  excelled. 

Powis — Who  slays  shall  be  slain. 

Deheubarth  (South  Wales) — Heart  to  heart. 

GwYNEDD  (Venedotia) — Jesus. 

Bryn  Gwyddon — Hearing  is  believing ;  seeing  is  truth. 

Dyvnaint  (Devon)  in  the  Chair  of  Beisgawen — Nothing  is  for 

ever  that  is  not  for  ever  and  ever. 
ÜRIBN  Rheged,  at  Aberllychwr  (Loughor),  under  the  Presidency 

of  Taliesin — Truth  will  have  its  place. 
Rhaglan  Castle,  under  the  Patronage  of  Lord  William  Herbert- 
Awake  !  it  is  day. 

THE  CHAIR  OF  NEATH. 

After  the  return  of  Rhys  ab  Tewdwr  from  the  emperor^s  court 
at  Constantinople,  it  was  agreed  upon  to  establish  a  chair  of  voctl 
song  at  Neath  ;  that  is — to  renew  an  old  chair  that  had  been  hdd 
there,  from  time  immemorial,  and  which,  as  well  as  the  place, 
enjoyed  so  effectually  the  inviolate  refuge  of  peace  and  heavenly 
tranquillity,  that  a  period  of  protection  was,  at  all  times,  extended 
to  every  human  being,  of  whatever  country,  who  should  resort 
there. — Chieftains,  and  the  principal  gentlemen,  scholars,  and  wise 
men,  of  Glamorgan  and  Gwent,  Dyved,  Ceredigion,  the  country  of 
Builth,  Gereinwg  (the  territory  between  the  Wye  and  Severn), 
the  territory  of  Rheged,  and  the  Three  Commots,  attended  the 
restoration  of  this  chair ;  and  the  assemblage  was  great  and  mag- 
nificent.    Having  renewed  ancient  privileges,  the  motto — **  God's 


TRIBUTES.  449 

peace  and  his  heavenly  tranquillity,''  was  adopted.  After  the 
first  festival,  where  nine  persons  were  confederated  to  one  purpose, 
Rhys,  the  son  of  Tewdwr,  conducted  himself  in  an  unseemly  man- 
ner towards  Nest,  the  wife  of  lestyn,  which  being  disclosed  to 
lestyn,  he  hastily  departed,  with  his  family,  adherents,  and  reti- 
nue, without  bidding  adieu  to  Bhys  ab  Tewdwr,  because  he  had 
violated  the  peace  of  (jod  and  his  heavenly  tranquillity,  by  be- 
having so  indecently  towards  the  wife  of  a  royal  prince;  she  being 
also  the  daughter  of  a  royal  prince,  that  is,  of  Bleddyn,  the  son  of 
Oynvyn,  king  of  Powis.  Rhys,  however,  notwithstanding  his 
discourtesy,  became  very  wroth  with  lestyn,  and  commenced  a 
campaign  against  him,  which  eventually  proved  disastrous  to  both 
princes ;  for,  Rhys  fell  in  the  contest,  and  lestyn  lost  his  country, 
wealth,  and  his  power.     Thus  terminated  the  chair  of  Neath. 


TRIBUTES. 

Thb  Island  of  Britain  should  be  governed  by  a  paramount  mo- 
narch, who  shall  support  his  crown  and  dignity  in  London. 

Three  kingdoms  are  governed  in  subordination  to  the  crown  of 
the  supreme  monarch  of  Britain ;  which  are,  Wales,  which,  origi- 
nally, had  its  seat  of  government  at  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  but  now 
it  is  at  Aberffraw ; — the  next,  Cornwall  and  Devon,  the  royal 
residence  having  been,  originally,  at  Gelliwig,  but  now  it  is  at 
Caervynyddawg ; — and  the  third,  Penn  Rhynn  Rhion  (in  Cum- 
bria), where,  also,  its  seat  of  government  was  fixed. 

The  three  principal  royal  residences  of  the  paramount  monarch 
of  Britain  are,  the  cities  of  London,  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  and 
York ;  in  each  of  which  places,  ho  is  entitled  to  a  national 
palace. 

Three  illustrious  sovereigns,  of  ancient  descent,  are  entitled  to 
govern  all  Wales  ;  the  first  of  which  resides  in  Dinevor,  in  South 
Wales;  the  second  in  Aberffraw,  Anglesea;  and  the  third  in 
Powis  Wynva ;  each  being  allotted  a  royal  residence,  under  the 
supremacy  of  the  paramount  monarch  of  Britain,  who  resides  in 
London. 

The  King  of  London  is  entitled  to  three  tributes  from  the  Kings 
of  Wales ;  namely,  a  tribute  in  gold  from  Aberffraw,  amountins^ 
to  i^20;    a  tribute  in  honey,  from  Dinevor,  amounting  to  four 


450  HISTORICAL  NOTICES. 

tons ;  and  a  tribute  in  oatmeal,  from  Fowis  Wynva,  amounting 
to  four  tons ;  but  in  default  of  honey  from  Dinevor,  or  of  oatmeal 
from  Powis,  a  commutation,  amounting  to  £20,  from  each  of  these 
provinces :  for  Bhodri  the  Great,  King  of  all  Wales,  divided  his 
dominion  into  three  kingdoms,  which  he  distributed  among  his 
three  sons, — namely,  Cadell,  who  had  Dinevor ;  Mervyn,  who  had 
Mathravael,  in  Powis  Wynva;  and  Anarawd,  who  had  Aberffraw, 
in  Anglesea;  and  he  conferred  on  the  eldest  of  these  diademed 
princes  the  paramount  sovereignty  of  Wales ;  enjoining  an  an- 
nual tribute  to  him  from  each  of  the  other  two,  to  enable  him  to 
make  up  the  tribute  due  from  Wales  to  the  King  of  London, — 
that  is,  £60  in  gold.  The  said  three  Kings  are  called  the  three 
diademed  princes ;  and  it  was  in  the  aforesaid  manner  that  the 
sovereignty  of  Wales  was  divided  among  them. 

But  there  are  other  princes  in  Wales,  viz.  lestyn,  the  son  of 
Gwrgan,  in  Glamorgan,  who  governs  the  seven  cantreds  within 
the  boundaries  of  that  principality ;  and  the  family  of  Elystan 
Glodrydd,  who  govern  the  district  between  the  Wye  and  the 
Severn ;  both  which  lineages  hold  their  territories  under  the 
crown  of  London,  and  not  in  fealty  to  the  diadem  of  the  King  of 
all  Wales.     And  so  it  endeth. 


HISTORICAL  NOTICES,  MOSTLY  RELATING  TO 
GLAMORGAN.^ 

In  the  year  1145,  Pope  Nicholas  Brekspere  confirmed  the 
rights  of  the  Normans,  in  Glamorgan,  for  the  support  he  receired 
from  them  when  a  wanderer  there.  He  was  a  long  while  at  St 
Donafs,  with  Sir  Gilbert  Stradling. 

In  121.6,  Lewis,  the  son  of  Philip,  was  made  king  of  EnglaiA 
and  King  John,  of  England,  wandered  to  Wales,  to  his  wife  tíA 
sister  in  law.  He  had  been  divorced  from  his  wife,  who  wtf 
Isabella,  the  daughter  of  William  Earl  of  Gloucester,  and  Lord  rf 
Glamorgan ;  but  when  she  saw  him  in  distress,  she  kept  him  in 
disguise,  for  half  a  year,  at  Boverton  Place,  under  the  name  of 
Gerald  Fitzalan ;  after  which  he  returned  to  England,  and  King 
Lewis  was  obliged  to  flee. 

1  From  the  Rev.  £.  Gamage's  MSS.  of  St.  Atban. 


J 


HISTORICAL   NOTICES.  451 

In  1346,  the  battle  of  Cressy  was  fought,  where  the  Welsh 
acquired  great  fame  for  their  brave  achievements  in  support  of 
E!dward  the  Black  Prince.  It  was  at  this  time  that  Captain 
Gadwgan  Voel  called  to  the  Welsh,  desiring  them  to  put  leeks  in 
their  helmets,  the  battle,  there,  being  in  a  field  of  leeks  ;  and 
when  they  looked  about,  they  were  all  Welshmen  in  that  locality 
except  130 ;  and  it  was  from  this  circumstance  that  the  Welsh 
took  to  wearing  leeks. 

In  1348,  the  sweating  plague  seized  the  Normans  and  Saxons 
in  Wales,  many  of  whom  died,  but  scarcely  a  Welshman  died, 
except  such  as  were  English  on  one  side. 

In  1349,  severe  diseases  seized  the  cattle  throughout  the  coun- 
ties of  Somerset  and  Devon,  and  a  great  mortality  took  place 
among  them ;  which  was  the  origin  of  taking  gold  in  payment  for 
cattle  from  Englishmen,  who  now  bought  largely  to  supply  the 
deficiencies  where  the  mortality  prevailed. 

In  1378,  Owen,  the  son  of  Elidir,  came  to  Wales  from  France, 
where  he  had  espoused  the  cause  of  the  French  king,  against 
Edward  the  Black  Prince; — thus  betraying  England.  This  Owen 
boilt  a  very  fair  house  at  Lantwit  Major ;  but  his  wounded  con- 
science pained  him  so  much,  for  betraying  Prince  Edward,  in 
France,  that,  in  penance,  he  abstained  from  all  means  of  suste- 
nance, until  he  died  from  want ;  and  as  they  bore  his  body  to  the 
grave,  two  hounds,  passing  by,  seized  and  tore  him  to  pieces, 
leaving  no  two  bones  together.  He  wrote,  in  WeJsh,  an  account 
of  his  deeds ;  and,  at  his  death,  the  lord  paramount  took  posses- 
sion of  his  wealth  ;  and  very  rich  he  was  in  gold  and  silver. 

In  1392,  a  young  man  and  woman  went  to  the  chapter  house  at 
Llandaff,  during  vespers,  and  conducted  themselves  very  disgrace- 
fully ;  but  they  died  there  both,  at  the  very  same  instant ;  and 
the  bishop  caused  their  bodies  to  be  thrown  to  the  dogs  and 
ravens. 

In  1397,*  contentions  arose  between  the  tenants  and  their 
lords,  in  Glamorgan,  from  the  obligation  which  the  latter  insisted 
that  the  former  were  under,  of  fighting  in  their  defence :  but  the 
tenants  maintained,  on  their  part,  that,  originally,  they  were  liable 

'  This  date  is  wrong.  The  contention,  it  is  prohahle,  occurred  in  1197, 
■nd  was  appeased  by  King  John,  in  the  manner  stated,  after  his  accession  in 
1199,  The  error  must  have  occurred  in  old  transcripts,  the  event  being  quite 
misplaced  through  it. 

3  M 


452  HISTORICAL   NOTICES. 

to  no  such  feudal  tenure ;  being  left  entirely  to  the  exercise  of 
their  own  free  will ;  for,  although  the  lands  were  the  property  of 
the  lords,  still,  that  the  tenants,  who  held  them,  were  not  so ;  and 
King  John  confirmed  their  claim  in  that  respect  ;  making  it  only 
obligatory  on  them  to  fight  in  defence  of  the  crown  of  England ; 
which  decision  restored  tranquillity. 

In  1399,  a  Welshman,  named  Llywelyn  ab  Cadwgan,  but  who 
would  never  mention  his  family  connexions,  came  from  the  Turkish 
war  to  reside  at  Cardiff ;  and  so  considerable  was  his  wealth,  that 
he  gave  out  of  it  to  every  poor  person,  of  whatever  country,  that 
supplicated  his  succour,  or  that  he  perceived  to  be  in  want.  He 
built  a  large  mansion  near  the  old  white  tower,  for  the  support  of 
the  sick,  and  persons  of  infirm  years.  He  gave  all  that  was  asked 
of  him,  until  his  wealth  was  all  gone ;  and  then  he  sold  his  large 
and  fair  mansion,  called  the  New  Place,  to  the  family  of  Mathews, 
and  gave  away  the  proceeds,  until  every  resource  failed ;  after 
which,  he  died  of  want ;  for  no  one  gave  to  him ;  but  rather 
accused  him  of  prodigally  wasting  his  riches. 

In  1401,  the  insects  of  leaves  did  immense  injury,  throughout 
the  country,  by  destroying  the  leaves  and  grass  to  such  an  extent, 
that  no  provender  was  left  for  cattle :  but  some  one  scattered  lime 
over  the  fields,  to  destroy  them;  so  that  they  were  not  only 
thereby  killed,  but  the  ground,  being  thus  limed,  bore,  conse- 
quently, astonishing  crops  of  com  and  hay  ;  from  which  circum- 
stance, land-liming  became  a  prevalent  practice  in  Glamorgan. 

In  1403,  contentions,  in  sports  and  pastimes,  took  place  be- 
tween one  hundred  and  twenty  men  of  Glamorgan,  and  the  same 
number  of  the  men  of  Gwent,  in  which  the  men  of  Glamoigan 
proved  triumphant;  whereupon  the  Gwentians  became  enraged; 
and,  drawing  their  daggers,  insisted  that  the  men  of  Glamorgan 
had  taken  from  them  their  property  in  money  and  clothes,  aod 
they  killed  more  than  a  hundred  persons,  including  men,  women, 
and  children.  This  cruelty  impelled  the  men  of  Glamorgan  to 
master  them  in  all  feats  and  sports.  The  said  circumstance  gave 
rise  to  the  adage — '  Glamorgan  thieves, '  in  Gwent — and  *  The 
blood-hounds  of  Gwent,"  in  Glamorgan. 

In  1407,  an  immense  fish  was  cast  ashore  between  St.  Doittt'« 
and  Lantwit,  where  it  died,  and  became  so  putrid,  that  the  steoeh 
caused  severe  diseases.  At  last,  the  inhabitants  collected  br^ 
quantities  of  wood  and  straw,  and  set  fire  to  it,  which  spread  the 
putrid  air  so  much  more,  that  maladies,  causing  great  mortaUty 


HISTORICAL   NOTICES,  453 

among  men  and  beasts,  ensued  :  but  cattle  suffered  mostly.  Sir 
Edward  Stradling  gave  a  great  number  of  cows  which  he  had 
brought  from  his  own  estates  in  Somersetshire,  to  the  poor  of  the 
district.  The  fish  was  twenty-two  yards  long,  and  between  three 
and  four  yards  high. 

In  1411,  a  large  ship  came  ashore,  under  Tresilian  Wood  ;  but 
no  one  was  found  in  the  country  who  understood  the  language  of 
its  crew.  The  lord  of  the  manor  took  to  the  ship  ;  and  it  was  one 
of  its  sailors  who  first  taught  the  Welsh  to  knit  stockings. 

In  1419,  three  days  of  such  intense  heat  occurred,  that  numbers 
of  men  and  beasts  perished,  and  birds  died  on  the  wing.  At  this 
time,  also,  all  the  green  vermin  were  killed  throughout  the  Island 
of  Britain,  and  never  reappeared  there  again ;  from  which  circum- 
stance, the  good  eflfected  to  the  country  exceeded  the  injury  caused 
by  the  heat.  A  brake  of  wood  in  Margam  park  withered ;  and 
likewise  many  trees  and  hedges  about  Nash,  and  westward,  where 
the  evening  sun  was  most  ardent  about  three  o'^clock. 

In  the  time  of  Henry  the  2d,  Kenffig,  Cardiff,  Aberavan,  Bover* 
ton,  Lantwit,  and  Cowbridgo  were  made  corporate  towns  by  the 
lord  paramount.  Wick  and  Broughton  were  likewise  incorporated; 
but  they  lost  their  municipal  rights  by  espousing  the  cause  of 
Owen  Glyndore. 


HISTORICAL  NOTICES 

EXTRACTED  FROM  THE  PAPERS  OF  THE  REV.  EVAN  EVANS,  NOW 
IN  THE  POSSESSION  OF  PAUL  PANTON,  ESa  OF  ANGLESEA. 

In  1405,  a  bloody  battle,  attended  with  great  slaughter,  that,  in 
severity,  was  scarcely  ever  exceeded  in  Wales,  took  place  on  PwU 
Melyn  Mountain,  near  Usk,  where  Griffith  ab  Owen  and  his  men 
were  taken,  and  many  of  them  imprisoned  ;  but  many  were  also 
put  to  death  when  captured ;  whereupon  all  Glamorgan  became 
Saxons,  except  a  small  number  who  followed  their  lord  to  North 
Wales,  where  they  resided  and  had  issue. 

In  1406,  the  inhabitants  of  Ystrad  Tywy,  Pebydiog,  and  Cere- 
digion, turned  Saxons ;  and  Geraint,  the  son  of  Owen,  was  obliged 
to  conceal  himself.  Many  also  went  to  Armorica  and  Ireland;  for 
the  wages  of  treason  and  reaction  had  rendered  unavailing  all  the 
struggles  of  the  Welsh  for  their  rights  aud  crown  :   and  Wales  had 


454  HISTORICAL   NOTICES, 

become  now  so  impoverished,  that  even  the  means  of  barely  siu- 
taining  life  could  not  be  obtained,  but  through  the  rewards  given 
by  the  King, 

In  1408,  the  men  of  Glamorgan  were  excited  to  commotioin  through 
the  extreme  oppression  inflicted  on  them  by  the  King'^s  men  ;  but 
many  of  the  chieftains  who  had  obtained  royal  favour,  burnt  their 
corn-stacks  and  bams,  that  the  partizans  of  Owen  might  not  ob- 
tain needful  food.  But  those  chieftains  fled  to  the  extremities  of 
England  and  North  Wales,  where  they  were  defended  in  the  castles 
and  dales  of  the  King'^s  forces,  and  supported  by  the  rewards  of 
treason  and  stratagem ;  and  Owen  could  not  recover  his  lands 
and  authority,  because  of  the  treachery  prevalent  in  Anglesea  and 
Arvon,  which  the  men  of  Glamorgan  designated — the  treason  of 
Penmynydd  in  Mona. 

In  1410,  nine  monopolizers  of  the  wages  of  treason  and  strata- 
gem were  caught  in  Glamorgan,  Gwent,  Ystrad  Tywy,  and  Cere- 
digion, and  hanged  by  the  natives  contrary  to  the  wish  of  Owen, 
who  preferred  keeping  them  in  prison  as  hostages  rather  than 
putting  them  to  death. 

In  1413,  the  King  and  his  army  vanquished  Owen  and  his 
adherents ;  and  thenceforth  the  cause  of  the  latter  became  more 
and  more  hopeless. 

I  In  1415,  Owen  disappeared,  so  that  neither  sight  nor  tidings 
of  him  could  be  obtained  in  the  country.     It  was  rumoured  that 

he  escaped  in  the  guise  of  a  reaper ;   bearing^  according 

to  the  testimony  of  the  last  who  saw  and  knew  him  ;  after  which 
little  or  no  information  transpired  respecting  him,  nor  of  the  place 
or  manner  of  his  concealment.  The  prevalent  opinion  was,  that 
he  died  in  a  wood  in  Glamorgan ;  but  occult  chroniclers  assert, 
that  he  and  his  men  still  Uve,  and  are  asleep  on  their  arms,  in  a 
cave,  called  "  Gogov  y  ddinas,'^^  in  the  vale  of  Gwent,  where  they 
will  continue,  until  England  become  self-debased ;  but  that,  then, 
they  will  sally  forth,  and  reconquer  their  country,  privileges,  and 
crown  for  the  Welsh,  who  shall  be  dispossessed  of  them  no  moro 
until  the  day  of  judgment,  when  the  world  shall  be  consumed  with 
fire,  and  so  reconstructed,  that  neither  oppression  nor  devastation 
shall  take  place  any  more  :  and  blessed  will  he  be  who  shall  see 
the  time. 

'  The  MS.  is  defective  here,    **  Bearing  a  sickle'*  was^  probably,  the  ori- 
ginal clause. 

«    «<  Gogov  y  Ddinas"  signifiefr-the  Cavern  of  the  Fortre». 


SHORT  NOTICES.  455 

In  1417,  the  privileges  of  trades  and  schools^  were  denied  to 
the  Welsh,  further  than  to  give  them  English  instruction ;  for 
which  purpose,  English  teachers  were  introduced  to  Wales ;  so 
that  their  language  became  the  common  medium  of  conversation 
among  the  natives ;  for  no  national  rights  were  allowed  to  any, 
but  those  only  who  spoke  English,  and  did  not  know  Welsh ;  con- 
sequently, many  of  the  Welsh,  from  that  time  forth,  denied  their 
language,  and  resolved  to  turn  Saxons. 


SHORT  NOTICES. 


SAINT  PATRICK.* 


About  A.  D.  420  the  Island  of  Britain  seemed  to  have  neither 
ruler  nor  proprietor,  being  exposed  to  all  the  invasions  of  enemies 
and  aliens;  for  its  military  forces  were  engaged  beyond  sea  in 
opposing  the  black  invaders  who  devastated  all  Christendom  at 
that  time.  The  Irish,  at  the  same  period,  having  combined  with 
the  Lochlynians,  invaded  and  oppressed  Britain ;  and  one  of  their 
ships  entered  the  Severn,  her  crew  landed,  and  seized  an  immense 
booty  in  com,  cattle,  and  every  other  moveable  property  that  they 
could  lay  their  hands  upon, — among  which  were  included  sons  and 
daughters.  They  also  took  away  Saint  Patrick  from  the  College  of 
Theodosius' to  Ireland ;  whence  that  College  became  destitute  of  a 
principal  and  teacher  for  more  than  forty  years,  and  fell  into  dila- 
pidation;— its  walls  and  iuclosure  being  also  broken  down.  Patrick 
being  thus  conveyed  to  Ireland,  exerted  himself  strenuously  there  to 
inculcate  Christianity  to  the  aboriginal  Irish,  the  Gwyddelians,  and 
the  Lochlynians;  and  his  undertakings  eminently  prospered ;   so 


1  The  Welflhy  at  this  period,  from  the  countless  allusions  of  the  Bards  to 
the  mode  then  prevalent  of  recording  their  compositions,  appear  to  have 
resomed  their  primitive  usage  of  inscribing  on  the  Coelbren,  or  wooden  book; 
a  circumstance  which  we  may  justly  attribute  to  the  severe  interdiction  here 
noticed,  and  to  other  still  more  restrictive  enactments. 

«  From  Anthony  Powel  of  Llwydarth's  MSS. 

s  Lantwit  Major. 


456  SHORT   NOTICES. 

that  the  Irish  obtained  a  knowledge  of  Christianity,  and  some  of 
the  Lochlynians  also  became  converts  to  that  faith.  Patrick  never 
returned  to  Wales,  choosing,  rather,  to  reside  in-  Ireland  ;  having 
ascertained  that  the  Irish  were  better  people  than  the  Welsh  in 
those  times. 


CÜNEDDA  WLEDIG.» 

CüNEDDA  Wledig  drove  the  Irish  from  Gower  and  the  Three 
Gommots,  for  which  service  the  regal  government  of  that  country 
was  conferred  on  him,  and  the  dominion  was  called  Bheged,  its 
royal  residence  being  Aberllychwr  (Loughor)  where  this  prince 
erected  an  amazingly  large,  strong,  and  magnificent  castle ;  the  ruins 
of  which  are  still  to  be  found  there.  Others,  however,  assert  that 
it  was  Urien  Rheged  who  expelled  the  Irish  from  Gower,  in  the 
time  of  Uthur  Pendragon;  and  that  it  was  for  the  said  service  he 
received  the  kingly  government  of  that  country,  which  he  named 
Rheged,  and  constructed  a  castle  and  municipal  town  at  Aber- 
llychwr, where  the  royal  residence  continued  for  seven  generations; 
after  which  the  dominion  became  reunited,  by  marriage,  to  Gla* 
morgan,  and  continued  so  to  the  time  of  Edgar,  King  of  London, 
and  of  Owen,  the  son  of  Howel  the  Good,  when  it  was  assigned  to 
the  latter  prince ;  Ewias,  Ergyng,  and  Ystrad  Yw  being  at  the 
same  time  awarded  to  Morgan  the  Aged,  King  of  Glamorgan;  those 
districts  being  in  the  see  of  the  bishop  of  Glamorgan  and  Llandaff; 
but  Rheged  was  in  that  of  Saint  David's.  In  process  of  time  Sir 
William  de  Londres  regained  the  Three  Commots,  namely,  Cydweli, 
Camwyllion,  and  Iscennen,  from  the  princes  of  Dinevor,  and  re- 
united them  to  Glamorgan,  in  which  state  they  continued  till  the 
time  of  Henry  V.,  when  Rheged  was-  again  restored  to  Ystrad- 
Tywy,  of  which  they  formed  constituent  parts  in  the  periods  of  the 
princes  of  Dinevor.  It  was  at  this  reunion  that  the  whole  district, 
so  constituted,  was  named  Gaermarthenshire ;  and  it  has  been 
known  as  such  until  our  own  time,  when  Wales  was  arranged 
under  new  divisions,  under  which  Gower  was  attached  to  Cardiff- 
shire,  called  Glamorgan.' 

>  Havod  MS. 

«  Extracted,  so  far,  from  a  MS.  at  Havod  Uchtryd. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  457 

XJEIEN  RHEGED.i 

GiLMORB  Rechdyr,  King  of  Ireland,  came  to  Wales  in  the  time  of 
Constantino  the  Blessed,  and  unjustly  seized  that  part  of  Glamor- 
gan which  is  hounded  by  the  rivers  Tawy  and  Towey,  including 
the  Gantred  of  Gower  and  Loughor,  and  the  Three  Gommots, 
namely,  Kidwely,  Garnwyllion,  and  Iscennen ;  which  country  he 
arbitrarily  subdued,  and  it  continued  under  usurpation  to  the 
time  of  King  Arthur,  who  sent  a  redoubtable  prince  of  the  Round 
Table,  being  a  person  of  astonishing  prowess,  called  Urien,  the  son 
of  Cynvarch,  the  son  of  Meirchion  Gul,  the  son  of  Ceneu,  the  son 
of  Coel  Godebog,  and  with  him  ten  thousand  men  of  daring  onset 
and  stout  hearts,  to  recover  those  districts  from  the  usurping  chief- 
tain, Gilmore  the  Irishman.  Urien  put  him  and  his  forces  to 
flight,  killing  them  unsparingly.  Many  of  the  Irish,  who  escaped, 
fled  to  Anglesea  to  their  fellow-countrymen  who  were  of  Irish 
extraction ;  but  the  sons  of  Cunedda  Wledig  slew  them  there 
without  delay.  After  Urien  had  reconquered  Gower  and  the  Three 
Gommots,  he  was  anointed  King  of  that  country,  which  was  there- 
upon called  Rheged,  whence  Urien  ab  Gynvarch  acquired  the 
appellation  of  Urien  Rheged. 

URIEN  RHEGED. 

The  following  notices  convey  information  relating  to  Urien 
Rheged,  the  son  of  Cynfarch,  Arthur's  nephew,  the  son  of  Meir- 
chion Gul,  the  son  of  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  the  son  of  Ceneu,  the  son 
of  Coel  Godebog,  King  elect  [Brenin  Gwledig],  that  is — Emperor 
of  the  Island  of  Britain. — Urien  Rheged  was  King  of  Rheged  in 
Glamorgan,  and  of  Moray  in  Scotland  ;  and  he  lived  in  the  time 
of  Arthur,  who  bestowed  on  him  the  kingdom  of  the  country 
called  Rheged,  or  the  district  between  the  rivers  Tawy  and  Towey, 
comprising  the  territories  of  Gower,  Kidwely,  Garnwyllion,  Iscen- 
nen, and  Cantrev  Bychan ;  the  royal  residence  being  at  Aber- 
Uychwr  in  Gower,  where  he  constructed  a  strong  castle,  called 
the  Castle  of  Aberllyw.^ 

*  From  Watkin  Giles  of  Llangan's  MS. 

«  The  river  Llyw  falls  into  that  of  the  Llychwr,  near  the  remains  of  this 
old  castle. 


854  SHORT   NOTICES. 

In  the  time  of  the  Emperor  Arthur,  Glaian  Ecdawr,  and  his 
fellow  Irishmen,  came  to  Gower  in  Glamorgan,  where  they  resided 
for  nine  months ;  but  Arthur  sent  his  nephew,  Urien,  and  three 
hundred  men,  against  them  ;  and  they  drove  them  from  there; 
whereupon  the  Irish,  their  King,  Glaian  Ecdawr,  being  slain,  went 
to  Anglesea,  where  they  remained  with  their  countrymen,  who  had 
settled  there  previously.  Arthur  bestowed  Rheged  (so  called  from 
the  name  of  a  Roman  who  was  lord  of  that  country  before  it  was 
subdued  by  the  said  Glaian  and  his  Irishmen)  on  Urien,  as  a  royal 
conquest,  for  his  heroic  achievements  in  war.  Urien  Bheged  had 
a  daughter  named  Eliwri,  who  became  the  wife  of  Morgan  Mor- 
ganwg ;  and  a  son  called  Pasgen,  who  was  a  very  cruel  King,  and 
a  great  traitor  to  his  country,  for  which  he  was  dethroned  ;  and  the 
country  of  Rheged,  because  of  its  original  position,  was  reunited 
to  Glamorgan,  in  which  state  it  continued  to  the  time  of  Owen, 
the  son  of  Howel  the  Good,  the  son  of  Gadell,  the  son  of  Rhodri 
the  Great,  Bang  of  all  Wales.^ 

NOTICES  OF  TALIESIN. 

Taliesin,  Chief  of  the  Bards,  the  son  of  Saint  Henwg  of  Caer- 
lleon  upon  Usk,  was  invited  to  the  court  of  Urien  Rheged,  at 
Aberllychwr.  He,  with  Elphin,  the  son  of  Urien,  being  once 
fishing  at  sea  in  a  skin  coracle,  an  Irish  pirate  ship  seized  him 
and  his  coracle,  and  bore  him  away  towards  Ireland  :  but  while 
the  pirates  were  at  the  height  of  their  drunken  mirth,  Taliesin 
pushed  his  coracle  to  the  sea,  and  got  into  it  himself,  with  a  shield 
in  his  hand  which  he  found  in  the  ship,  and  with  which  he  rowed 
the  coracle  until  it  verged  the  land ;  but,  the  waves  breaking  then 
in  wild  foam,  he  lost  his  hold  on  the  shield,  so  that  he  had  no 
alternative  but  to  be  driven  at  the  mercy  of  the  sea,  in  which  state 
he  continued  for  a  short  time,  when  the  coracle  stuck  to  the  point 
of  a  pole  in  the  weir  of  Gwyddno,  Lord  of  Ceredigion,  in  Aberdyri ; 
and  in  that  position  he  was  found,  at  the  ebb,  by  Gwyddno^s  fisher- 
men, by  whom  he  was  interrogated  ;  and  when  it  was  ascertained 
that  he  was  a  bard,  and  the  tutor  of  Elffin,  the  son  of  Urien 


1  From  Thos.  Truman,  of  Pantlliwydd/s  long  MS. ;  but  it  appean  to  me 
that  there  b  a  leaf  lost  here.    (E.  W.) 
«  From  Anthony  Powel  of  Llwydarth's  MS. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  459 

Kheged,  the  son  of  Cynvarch: — "  I,  too,  have  a  son  named  Elffin,**' 
said  Gwyddno,  "  he  thou  a  hard  and  teacher  to  him,  also,  and  I 
will  give  thee  lands  in  free  tenure.'''  The  terms  were  accepted ; 
and,  for  several  successive  years,  he  spent  his  time  hetween  the 
courts  of  Urien  Rheged  and  Gwyddno,  called  Gwyddno  Garanhir, 
Lord  of  the  Lowland  Cantred :  but  after  the  territory  of  Gwyddno 
had  become  overwhelmed  by  the  sea,  Taliesin  was  invited  by  the  Em- 
peror Arthur,  to  his  court,  at  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  where  he  becam6 
highly  celebrated  for  poetic  genius  and  useful,  meritorious  sciences. 
After  Arthur'*s  death,  he  retired  to  the  estate  given  to  him  by 
Gwyddno,  taking  Elffin,  the  son  of  that  prince,  under  his  protec- 
tion.— It  was  from  this  account  that  Thomas,  the  son  of  Einion 
Offeiriad,  descended  from  Gruffudd  Gwyr,  formed  his  romance  of 
Taliesin,  the  son  of  Cariadwen, — Elffin,  the  son  of  Goddnou, — 
Rhan,  the  son  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd, — ^and  the  operations  of  the 
Cauldron  of  Ceridwen. 


THE  PEDIGREE  OF  TALIESIN,  CHIEF  OF  THE  BARDSJ 


Taliesin,  Chief  of  the  Bards,  the  son  of  Einwg  the  Old,  of 
CaerUeon  upon  Usk,  in  Glamorgan,  the  son  of  FflwchLawdrwm, 
the  son  of  Cynin,  the  son  of  Cynvar,  the  son  of  Clydawc,  the  son 
of  Gwynnar,  the  son  of  Cadren,  the  son  of  Cynan,  the  son  of 
Cyllin,  the  son  of  Caradog,  the  son  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr 
Llediaith,  King  of  the  country  between  the  rivers  Wye  and 
Towy. 

[Otherwise  in  the  same  book.] 

Taliesin,  Chief  of  the  Bards  of  the  West,  the  son  of  Saint 
Henwg,  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  the  son  of  Fflwch,  the  son  of 
Cynin,  the  son  of  Cynvarch,  the  son  of  Saint  Clydawc,  of  Ewyas, 
the  son  of  Gwynnar,  the  son  of  Caid,  the  son  of  Cadren,  the  son 
of  Cynan,  the  son  of  Cyllin,  the  son  of  Caradog,  the  son  of  Bran, 
the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  King  Paramount  of  all  the  Kings  of 
Britain,  and  King,  in  lineal  descent,  of  the  country  between  the 
rivers  Wye  and  Towy.    Taliesin  became  Chief  Bard  of  the  West, 


*  Tliomaá  Ilopkiii  of  Coychurch's  MS. 

3    N 


460  SHORT   NOTICES. 

from  having  been  appointed  to  preside  over  the  chair  of  the  Boand 
Table,  at  Caerlleon  upon  Usk. 


THE  PEDIGREE  OF  TALIESIN,  CHIEF  OF  THE  BARDS.» 

Taliesin,  Chief  of  the  Bards  of  the  West,  the  son  of  Henwg  the 
Bard,  of  the  college  of  Saint  Cadocus,  the  son  of  Fflwch  Lawdrwm, 
of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  in  Glamorgan,  the  son  of  Oynvar,  the  son 
of  Saint  Clydog,  the  son  of  Gwynnar,  the  son  of  Cadrain,  the  son 
of  Cynan,  the  son  of  Caradog,  the  son  of  Bran  the  Blessed,  the 
son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Taliesin,  Chief  of  the  Bards,  erected  the  church  of  Llanhenwg* 
at  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  which  he  dedicated  to  the  memory  of  hia 
father,  called  Saint  Henwg,  who  went  to  Rome  on  a  mission  to 
Constantino  the  Blessed,  requesting  that  he  would  send  Saints 
Germanus  and  Lupus  to  Britain,  to  strengthen  the  faith,  and 
renew  baptism  there.^ 

Taliesin,  the  son  of  Henwg,  was  taken  by  the  wild  Irish,  who 
unjustly  occupied  Gower ;  but  while  on  board  ship,  on  his  way  to 
Ireland,  he  saw  a  skin  coracle,  quite  empty,  on  the  surface  of  the 
sea,  and  it  came  closely  to  the  side  of  the  ship;  whereupon  Taliesin, 
taking  a  skin-covered  spar  in  his  hand,  leaped  into  it,  and  rowed 
towards  land,  until  he  stuck  on  a  pole  in  the  weir  of  Gwyddno 
Garanhir ;  when  a  young  chieftain,  named  Elphin,  seeing  him  so 
entangled,  delivered  him  from  his  peril.  This  Elphin  was  taken 
for  the  son  of  Gwyddno ;  although,  in  reality,  he  was  the  son  of 
Elivri  his  daughter,  but  by  whom,  was  then  quite  unknown :  it 
was,  however,  afterwards  discovered  that  Urien  Rheged,  King  of 
Gower  and  Aberllychwr,  was  his  father,  who  introduced  him  to 
the  court  of  Arthur,  at  Caerlleon  upon  Usk ;  where  his  feats, 
learning,  and  endowments,  were  found  to  be  so  superior,  that  he 

»  MS.  at  Havod  Uchtryd. 

>  Llonhenwg,  or  the  church  of  Henwg  (now  Llanhennock),  is  sitnsted  t 
short  distance  to  the  north-east  of  Caerlleon. 

3  Immediately  after  this  pedigree,  the  Havod  MS.  presents  the  account  that 
succeeds  it  liere  also  ;  which  differs  but  little  from  the  preceding,  except  that 
it  is  somewhat  blended  with  the  chivalry  of  Arthur's  court. — The  memoir 
given  from  the  MS.  of  Anthony  Powel  is  free  from  legendary  traditions,  and 
seems  consistent  with  probability. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  461 

was  created  a  golJen-tongued  Knight  of  the  Round  Table. — After 
the  death  of  Arthur,  Taliesin  became  Ohief  Bard  to  Urien  Bheged, 
at  Aberlljchwr  in  Bheged. 


MAELGWN  GWYNEDD. 

The  three  Chief  Bards  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  who  were  also 
the  three  primitive  Chief  Bards  of  Grwynedd,  were  Mynach,  the 
son  of  Nywmon  {al.  ap  Mydnaw),  the  son  of  the  King  of 
Orkney,  Unhwch  Unarchen,  and  Maeldav,  the  son  of  Unhwch ; 
but  Taliesin,  Chief  of  the  Bards,  acquired  superiority  over  these 
three,  by  releasing  Elphin,  the  son  of  Gwyddno,  from  the  prison  of 
Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  where  he  was  confined  under  thirteen  locks. 

After  the  Welsh  had  lost  the  crown  and  sceptre  of  London,  and 
were  driven  from  England  [Lloegr],  they  instituted  competitions, 
to  ascertain  who  was  the  supreme  King  of  their  nation ;  and  the 
contentions  were  appointed  to  take  place  on  Maelgwn'^s  Strand,  at 
Aberdovey,  where  the  men  of  Gwynedd,  Powis,  South  Wales, 
Bhieinwg,  together  with  those  of  Siluria  and  Glamorgan,  assem- 
bled ;  and  there  Maeldav  the  elder,  the  son  of  unhwch  Unarchen, 
a  chieftain  of  Fenardd  in  Ar\'on,  placed  a  holy  chair,  made  of  waxed 
wings,  under  Maelg\ni ;  and  when  the  tide  flowed,  no  one  could 
endure  it,  except  himself,  who  was  rendered  scatheless  by  the 
chair :  in  consequence  of  this,  Maelgwn  was  proclaimed  King  Pa- 
ramount ;  Aberflfraw  became  the  principal  royal  residence ;  and 
the  Earls  of  Mathravael,  Dincvor,  and  Caerlleon  were  placed 
under  him ;  his  word  being  declared  superior  to  theirs,  and  his 
law — supreme;  and  to  be  implicitly  obeyed  by  those  other  chief- 
tains. It  was  through  the  instrumentality  of  Maeldav  the  elder, 
that  Penardd  acquired  its  municipal  privileges. 


BENWYLL.» 

Ik  the  time  of  Benwyll  the  Teacher,  the  principles  of  armorial 
bearings  were  first  reduced  to  a  science.  None  are  entitled  to 
coats  of  arms,  but  gentlemen  either  of  genuine  descent,  to  the  ninth 


»  From  Anthony  Powell's  MS.  of  Tir  larll. 


462  SHORT   NOTICES. 

generation,  or  of  the  ninth  degree  in  ascent ;  and  who  shall,  aLso, 
be  true  men  to  the  country  and  its  Lords. 

The  ninth  degree  in  ascent  will  stand  in  the  same  privileged 
position,  as  the  ninth  degree  in  genealogical  descent;  bat  upon 
a  principle  different  from  that  of  lineal  pedigree ;  its  regulating 
law  being  as  follows  : 

The  first  degree,  of  the  nine  ascents,  is  the  son  of  an  alien,  that 
is — the  son  of  a  foreigner,  but  a  person  of  sworn  allegiance  to  the 
British  nation  and  its  Lords.  A  person  of  this  degree  ia  called — 
an  alien  by  descent. 

The  second  degree  in  ascent  is  attained  by  the  marriage  of  an 
alien'*s  son  with  a  Welsh  lady  of  genuine  descent. 

The  third  degree  in  ascent,  is  a  son  bom  from  that  marriage. 

The  fourth  degree  in  ascent,  is  the  marriage  of  that  son  (that 
is,  a  son  of  an  alien,  by  primitive  descent,)  with  a  Welsh  lady  of 
genuine  descent. 

The  fifth  degree  in  ascent,  is  a  son  bom  from  that  marriage ; 
that  is — a  grandson  of  the  alien  by  descent. 

The  sixth  degree  in  ascent,  is  the  marriage  of  that  son  with  a 
Welsh  lady  of  genuine  descent. 

The  seventh  degree  in  ascent,  is  a  son  bom  from  that  marriage: 
being  a  great-grandson  of  the  alien  by  descent. 

The  eighth  degree  in  ascent,  is  the  marriage  of  that  son  with  a 
Welsh  lady  of  genuine  descent. 

The  ninth  degree  in  ascent,  is  a  son  bom  from  that  marriage, 
and  a  great-great-grandson  of  the  alien  by  descent : — and  he  be- 
comes the  alien  by  descent's  ascendant ; — ^being  so  called,  becaiue 
he  has  established  his  claim  to  the  rights  of  a  Welshman  of  genu- 
ine descent  to  the  ninth  generation,  by  virtue  of  successive  inte^ 
marriages  with  Welsh  ladies  of  pure  genealogy.  If  this  ascendant 
utter  three  cries  at  his  birth,  the  rights  attained  by  him  become, 
thereby,  confirmed,  though  he  should  die  immediately  after :  and 
every  elder  of  that  fainily,  whether  lineally  or  collaterally  connected, 
will  be  entitled  to  the  rights  of  a  Welshman  of  genuine  descent; 
and  this  privilege  will,  in  its  retrospective  operation,  extend  to  the 
enjfranchisement  even  of  the  aUen  by  descent,  who  may,  then, 
stand  in  the  position  of  a  Welshman  of  genuine  descent  and  rank, 
by  virtue  of  the  diffusive  rights  of  his  ascendant ;  and  every  des- 
cendant of  that  alien  by  descent,  whether  lineally  or  collaterally 
connected,  will  be  entitled  to  privileged  rank,  from  the  time  that 
he  shall  have  sworn  allegiance  to  the  country  and  its  Lords :  and 


SHORT   NOTICES.  463 

each  of  them  will,  also,  be  entitled  to  five  acres  in  free  tenure,  ac- 
cording to  the  primitive  customs  of  the  Cimbric  nation,  before  they 
arriyed  in  Britain.     This  Benwyll  was  herald-bard  at  the  court  of 
Arthur,  at  Oaerlleon  upon  Usk ;    and  a  knight  of  the   Bound 
Table.    Arthur  enjoined  him  to  restore  the  orders  and  usages  of 
rank  to  their  original  state ;    for  the  Bomans,  in  the  portions  of 
Britain  which  they  had  subjugated,  had   caused  the  primitive 
usages  of  the  Cimbric  race  to  fall  into  neglect  and  oblivion.     But 
Arthur  effected  their  restoration ;  re-attaching  to  them  the  inhe- 
rent rights  which  they  originally  conferred ;  whereupon  many  of  the 
Britons,  who  were  of  Roman  consanguinity,  but  exercised  author- 
ity, by  virtue  of  that  nation's  right  of  conquest,  went,  with  Med- 
rod  and  Iddawg  Com  Prydain,  and  entered  into  sworn  allegiance 
with  the  Saxons,  to  preserve  their  share  of  the  spoil.     Benwyll, 
herald-bard,  improved,  beyond  all  that  preceded  him,  the  system 
of  armorial  bearings,  with  regard  to  form  and  colour ;  principles 
of  scientific  knowledge  that  were  devised  by  himself,  through  the 
exertion  of  his  profound  reason  and  innate  genius.     When  this 
knowledge    became   extended  to    transmarine   countries,   it  was 
equally  patronised  and  enfranchised  by  emperors,  kings,  princes, 
and  illustrious  lords ;  so  that  no  armorial  bearings  became  recog- 
nised, that  were  not  portrayed  according  to  Benwyll  the  Teacher's 
system : — and  no  one  was  appointed  to  heraldic  offices,  who  could 
not  blazon  coats  of  arms  on  his  principles.     When  this  system 
became  generallr][known  through  Christendom,  it  was  adopted  and 
enfranchised  for  its  superiority ;    so  that  neither   privilege  nor 
guarantee  appertained  to  any  other.     Pepin,  emperor  of  France, 
kept  the  systems  of  Benwyll  and  the  Round  Table  under  his 
pillow,  in  bed,  at  night,  so  much  attached  was  he  to  them. 

BENWYLL. 

In  the  book  of  Benwyll  is  shown  the  manner  in  which  Arthur 
conferred  arms  on  gentlemen  of  genuine  birth.  In  the  first  place, 
he  instituted  the  Round  Table;  preparatory  to  which,  he  issued  a 
national  proclamation,  under  a  year  and  a  day'*s  notice,  so  as  to 
become  known  throughout  all  the  kingdoms  of  the  Island  of  Bri- 
tain and  its  allied  nations,  namely, — France,  Italy,  Albania,  Ire- 
land, and  Scandinavia,  from  which  countries,  kings,  princes,  and 
renowned  knights  came  to  his  festival.     On  this  occasion  Artluir 


464  SHORT  NOTICES. 

caused  the  manly  feats  exercised  bjr  the  ancient  Britona,  according 
to  early  usage,  to  be  performed  for  forty  days ;  during  which  the 
most  extraordinary  achievements  in  emulation  that  were  evet 
known  took  place.  After  all  had  exhibited  their  high  feats,  Ar- 
thur granted  armorial  bearings  and  court  privileges  to  each,  acoo^ 
ding  to  his  distinctive  superiority,  and  the  particular  performance 
in  which  he  excelled.  He  also  instituted  a  system  of  heraldry,  by 
which  the  principles  of  coats  of  arms,  with  regard  to  colours,  de- 
vices, and  arrangement,  wore  reduced  to  an  acknowledged  science; 
for,  previously,  persons  of  rank,  among  the  Cambro-Britons,  had 
no  other  armorial  bearings,  than  symbols  of  tribes. 

The  system  of  armorial  bearings  devised  by  Arthur,  is  that 
which  is  still  adopted.  In  process  of  time,  however,  the  system 
of  heraldly  became  deteriorated  and  involved  in  error,  until  Char- 
lemagne, emperor  of  Europe,  took  the  science  under  his  immediate 
patronage,  and  submitted  it  to  the  consideration  of  an  especial 
council,  who  pronounced  upon  it  a  judgment  of  approbation; 
whereupon  it  was  reduced  to  a  complete  system.  It  was  at  this 
time  that  gold  and  silver  were  first  introduced  to  the  armorial 
bearings  of  nobility ;  for,  previously,  the  terms  white,  yellow,  &c. 
were  used  for  the  six  heraldic  colours.  Charlemagne  was  the  first 
who  instituted  the  laws  of  tournament,  which  he  regulated  on  the 
bases  of  privileged  orders  and  merit,  in  imitation  of  the  emperor 
Arthur'*s  institution.  Tournaments  became  now  the  most  exalted 
sports  of  all  noble  and  manly  games.  It  was  in  the  institutes 
framed  for  such  distinguished  actions,  that  the  science  of  ftrmorial 
bearings  was  confirmed ;  the  system  having,  from  time  to  time, 
undergone  improvements,  as  occasions  required ;  and  as  instances 
occurred  of  the  principles  upon  which  armorial  bearings  should  be 
subjected  to  analysis  and  combination  with  regard  to  colour,  de- 
vice, and  inherence,  in  accordance  with  true  descent:  coats  of  arms 
being  borne  for  three  reasons;  1.  as  emblems  of  kindred  and  gene- 
alogical connexions ;  2.  as  characteristic  symbols  of  high  achieve- 
ments and  knowledge ;  and  as  descriptive  of  the  former  deeds  of 
illustrious  national  patriarchs. 

BENWYLL.I 

The  science  of  heraldry  was  devised  and  confirmed  as  a  legal 
system,  that  each  tribe  or  kindred  might  present  its  own  dbtinc- 

1  From  the  Black  Book  of  Pantlliwydd,  one  of  the  Truman  MSS. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  466 

live  and  authorized  symbol,  so  that  every  person  should  be  known 
by  his  emblem  of  affinity,  and  be  enabled  to  associate  with  his 
relative  party,  under  the  protection  of  his  kindred  chieftain,  in 
every  national  commotion  and  gathering,  without  further  testi- 
mony than  the  garb  and  bearings  of  the  wearer.  Under  such 
regulations,  every  one  easily  found  his  grade  and  position,  when 
he  joined  the  army,  in  defence  of  country  and  kindred.  A  person 
named  Benwyll,  taught,  in  former  days,  the  science  of  armorial 
bearings ; — and  he  excelled  all  who  had  previously  made  it  their 
study.  He  reduced  it  to  a  well  digested  and  authorized  system, 
that  combined  the  principles  of  colours,  figures,  inherent  virtues, 
and  appropriate  mottos,  in  a  manner  suitable  to  that,  or  any  other 
instructive  science,  or  to  any  meritorious  branch  of  knowledge; 
and  no  nation  acquired  this  system  of  Benwyll,  in  all  its  just  dis- 
tributions, except  the  Welsh  and  the  French.^ 

MAELGYN  HIR.« 

Maelotn  Hir,  of  Llandaff,  the  bard  and  maternal  uncle  of  St. 
Teilo,  bestowed  land  there  on  that  saint;   and  there  his  sacred 

*  The  first  of  the  three  preceding  articles  that  mention  Benwyll,  was  introdu- 
eed  into  this  volume,  on  account  of  the  nine  degrees  of  progressive  ascents  to  na- 
tional enfranchisement  which  it  includes,  and  which  weU  accord  with  ancient 
MS.  Triads  of  Pedigree  and  high  Origin  [Trioedd  Ach  a  Bonedd]  in  my  pos- 
session. These  degrees  likewise  coincide  with  the  principles  of  naturalization 
interspersed  through  the  laws  of  Howel  the  Good ;  and  are  sustained  by 
terms  of  affinity  still  in  use  among  the  Welsh,  as  well  as  by  current  proverbs 
and  adages.  But  the  connexion  of  BenwyU  with  Arthur,  Pepin,  and  Charle- 
magne, is  a  manifest  fallacy.  The  second  and  third  articles,  however,  are  free 
from  this  objection,  for  they  merely  mention  him  as  an  author  on  heraldry 
at  a  former  period. 

The  following  extract  from  Dallaway's  Heraldry,  [1793]  indicates  that  a 
person  named  Thomas  Benoilt  made  a  Heraldic  Visitation  of  Wales  in  1530. 

**  In  1528  a  commission  was  granted  and  executed  by  Thomas  Benoilt,  Cla- 
renceox,  for  the  counties  of  Gloucester,  Worcester,  Oxford,  Wilts,  Berks,  and 
Stafford.  This  business  was,  from  that  period,  very  sedulously  followed ;  as 
Visitations  were  regularly  made  everj'  25  or  30  years."  Heraldic  Visita- 
tions :— **  Wales,  1530,  by  Thomas  Benoilt." 

As  no  one  but  a  learned  Welshman  could  efficiently  execute  a  heraldic 
visitation  of  Wales,  it  is  probable  that  Benoilt  is  an  Anglicised  form  of  Ben- 
wyll ;  but  I  leave  the  complexity  of  his  identity  and  real  period,  for  others 
to  unravcL 

*ThÌ8  person,  evidently,  is  the  "Melkin"  mentioned  by  Gunn  upon  the 
authority  of  Baleus,  in  a  note  which  snys  that  "Nennius  composed  his  history 


466  SHORT    NOTICES. 

house  was  erected.  This  Maelgyn  was  the  tutor  of  Talhaiam  the 
hard,  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  where  he  instituted  the  bardic  char 
of  Caerlleon,  Glamorgan,  and  Gwent ;  and  it  was  called  the  chair 
of  Maolgyn;  in  which  chair,  Merddin  Emrys  taught,  subsequentlj, 
the  art  of  vocal  song,  the  science  of  bardisra,  and  their  aphorisms, 
about  the  time  that  Gwynedd  and  Mona  were  governed  by  Don, 
king  of  Lochlyn,  and  his  son  Gwydion ;  the  latter  of  whom  sent 
distinguished  messengers  from  Mona  to  Maelgyn,  requesting  that 
he  would  pay  him  a  visit  at  Caer-Dyganwy.  Maelgyn  accordingly 
went  there,  and  was  constituted  a  teacher  of  the  science  of  bard- 
ism  and  the  art  of  vocal  song.  Proceeding  by  sea  to  Mona,  in  the 
suite  of  Don  and  Gwydion,  he  won  all  the  chairs  wherever  he  tra- 
velled and  sang :  but  at  last  animosities  took  place  between  him 
and  the  natives,  especially  their  bards;  and  the  Irish  of  Mona 
killed  him.^ 


TALHAIARN. 

Talhaiarn,  the  father  of  Tangwn,  presided  in  the  chair  of  Urien 
Rheged,  at  Caer-Gwyroswydd,  after  the  expulsion  of  the  Irish  from 
Gower,  Carnwyllion,  Cantrev-Bychan,  and  the  Gantred  of  Iscen- 
nen.  The  said  chair  was  established  at  Caer-Gwyroswydd,  or 
Ystum  Llwynarth,  where  Urien  Rheged  was  accustomed  to  hold 
his  national  and  royal  court.^ 

TALIESIN.3 

After  the  death  of  Talhaiarn,  Taliesin,  chief  of  the  bards,  pre- 
sided in  three  chairs;  namely,  the  chair  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk, 

from  the  annals  of  the  Romans,  the  Scots,  and  the  Saxons;  from  the  British 
Taliesin,  MeUdn^  Gildas,  Elvodugus,  and  others."  Preface  to  Nennlos,  p. 
XX.    He  appears  to  have  heen  frequently  mistaken  for  Maelgwn  Gwjnedd. 

>  MS.  hy  Lly  welyn  Sion.  *  Lly  welyn  Sion. 

3  Taliesin's  intercourse  with  Gower  [Rheged]  and  its  Reguli  is  saffidently 
decided  hy  the  several  poems  addressed  hy  him  to  those  personages.  He  abo 
writes  in  the  Gwentian  dialect ;  of  which  district  he  was,  donhtless,  a  natiTe. 
See  his  compositions.  My  v.  Arch.  vol.  I.    In  his  **Kad  Goddeu"  he  says, 

"  Chwaryeis  y n  Llychwr 
Cy^is  ym  mhorphor." 

I  have  played  at  Llychwr  (Loughor)  and  slept  in  purple. 


SHOUT   NOTICES.  467 

the  chair  of  Bheged,  at  Bangor  Teivy,  under  the  patronage  of 
Gedig  ab  Ceredig,  ab  Ouneddav  Wledig ;  but  he  afterwards  was 
invited  to  the  territory  of  Gwyddnyw,  the  son  of  Gwydion,  in 
Arllechwedd,  Arvon,  where  he  had  lands  conferred  on  him,  and 
where  he  resided  until  the  time  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  when  he 
was  dispossessed  of  that  property ;  for  which  he  pronounced  his 
curse  on  Maelgwn,  and  all  his  possessions:  whereupon  the  Yad 
Velen^  came  to  Bhôs ;  and  whoever  witnessed  it,  became  doomed 
to  certain  death.  Maelgwn  saw  the  Vad  Velen,  through  the  key- 
hole, in  Bhös  church,  and  died  in  consequence.  Taliesin,  in  his 
old  age,  returned  to  Caer-Gwyroswydd,  to  Eiwallon,  the  son  of 
Urien ;  after  which  he  visited  Gedig,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son 
of  Guneddav  Wledig,  where  he  died,  and  was  buried  with  high 
honours,  such  as  should  always  be  shown  to  a  man  who  ranked 
among  the  principal  wise-men  of  the  Gimbric  nation;  and  Taliesin, 
chief  of  the  bards,  was  the  highest  of  the  most  exalted  class,  either 
in  literature,  wisdom,  the  science  of  vocal  song,  or  any  other  at- 
tainment, whether  sacred  or  profane.  Thus  terminates  the  infor- 
mation respecting  the  chief  bards  of  the  chair  of  Gaerlleon  upon 
Usk,  called,  now,  the  chair  of  Glamorgan.* 


THE  THREE  HIISH  INVASIONS. 

Three  Irish  invasions  took  place  in  Gambria;  and  one  family, 
that  of  Guneddav  Wledig,  delivered  the  country  from  the  three. 
The  first  occurred  in  Gower,  in  Glamorgan,  where  Gaian  Wyddel 
and  his  sons  landed,  subjugated  the  country,  and  ruled  it  for  eight 
years;  but  Guneddav  Wledig,  and  Urien,  the  son  of  Gynvarch, 
subdued  and  slew  them  to  nine,  whom  they  drove  into  the  sea ; 
and  the  government  of  the  country  was  conferred  on  Urien,  the 
son  of  Gynvarch,  having  been  constituted  a  kingdom  for  that 
purpose;  and  called  Rheged,^  because  it  was  bestowed,  unani- 
mously, by  its  ancient  British  inhabitants,  on  Urien  in  free  gift  ; 
whence  it  was  called  Urien  Rheged. 

•  The  "Vad  Velen,"  or,  Yellow  Putridity,  appears  to  have  been  a  severe 
pestilence  that  visited  this  Island,  at  different  periods  of  its  early  history.  It 
is  personified  in  this  legendary  reference  to  Maelgwn. 

*  Lly  welyn  Sion. 

'  The  name  Rheged  is  here  supposed  to  be  derived  from  anrheg,  a  gift. 

3  o 


468  SHORT   NOTICES. 

The  second  invasion,  was  that  of  Aflech  Goronog,  who  seized 
upon  Garth  Mathrin,  by  irruption ;  but,  having  married  Marchell, 
the  daughter  of  Tewdrig,  king  of  that  district,  he  acquired  the 
good  will  of  its  inhabitants,  and  obtained  the  country,  in  marriage 
settlement,  with  his  wife ;  and  there  his  descendants  still  remain, 
intermixed  with  the  natives. 

The  third  invasion  was  that  of  Don  (others  say  Daronwy)  king 
of  Lochlyn,  who  came  to  Ireland,  and  conquered  it ;  after  which, 
he  led  sixty  thousand  Irish  and  Lochlynians  to  North  Wales, 
where  they  ruled  for  one  hundred  and  twenty  nine  years ;  when 
Caswallawn  Lawhir,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Cuneddav 
Wledig,  entered  Mona,  wrested  the  country  from  them,  and  slew 
Sirigi  Wyddel,  their  ruler,  at  a  place  called  Llan-y-Gwyddyl,  in 
Mona.  Other  sons  of  Cuneddav  Wledig  slew  them,  also,  in  North 
Wales,  the  Cantred,  and  Powis,  and  became  princes  of  those 
counties.  Don  had  a  son,  called  Gwydion,  king  of  Mona  and 
Arvon,  who  first  taught  literature  from  books,  to  the  Irish  of 
Mona  and  Ireland ;  whereupon,  both  these  countries  became  pre- 
eminently famed  for  knowledge  and  saints. 


THE  NINE  IMPULSIVE  STOCKS  OF  THE  BAPTISMAL 
BARDS  OF  BRITAIN. 

The  three  primitive  baptismal  bards  of  the  Cambro-Britons : 
Madog,  the  son  of  Morvryn,  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk;  Taliesin, 
the  son  of  Saint  Henwg,  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk ;  and  Merddin 
Emrys,  of  Maesaleg,  in  Glywysyg ;  after  whom  came  Saint  Tal- 
haiam,  the  father  of  Tangwyn,  Merddin,  the  son  of  Madog  Mor- 
vryn, and  Meugant  Hen,  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  who  were  suc- 
ceeded by  Balchnoe,  the  bard  of  Teilo,  at  Llandaff;  Saint  Gattwg; 
and  Cynddylan,  the  bard.  These  nine  were  called  the  Impulsive 
Stocks  of  the  baptismal  bards  of  Britain ;  Taliesin,  being  their 
chair-president;  for  which  reason,  he  was  designated  Taliesin,  chief 
bard  of  the  West.  They  were  likewise  called  the  nine  superin- 
stitutionists  of  the  baptismal  chair ;  and  no  institution  is  deemed 
permanent,  unless  renewed  triennially,  till  the  end  of  thrice  three, 
or  nine  years.  The  institution  was,  also,  called  the  Chair  of  the 
Bound  Table,  under  the  superior  privileges  of  which,  Gildas  the 


SHORT   NOTICES.  469 

prophet,  and  Gadocus^  the  Wise,  of  Llancarvan,  were  bards ;  and 
also  Lljwarch  Hen,  the  son  of  Elidr  Lydanwyn,  Ystudvach,  the 
bard,  and  Ystyphan,  the  bard  of  Teilo.^ 


TALHAIARN'S  PRAYER,  CALLED,  BY  SOME,  THE 
GORSEDD  PRAYER. 


God!  impart  thy  strength ; 

And  in  that  strength,  reason ; 

And  in  reason,  knowledge ; 

And  in  knowledge,  justice ; 

And  in  justice,  the  love  of  it ; 

And  in  that  love,  the  love  of  everything ; 

And  in  the  love  of  everything,  the  love  of  God. 

Composed  by  Talhaiam,  the  father  of  Tanwyn. 


THE  GORSEDD  PRAYER,  FROM  ANOTHER  BOOK. 

Grant,  0  QodI  thy  refuge; 

And  in  refuge,  strength ; 

And  in  strength,  understanding ; 

And  in  understanding,  knowledge ; 

And  in  knowledge,  a  perception  of  rectitude  ; 

And  in  the  perception  of  rectitude,  the  love  of  it : 

And  in  that  love,  the  love  of  all  existences ; 

And  in  the  love  of  all  existences,  the  love  of  God. 

God  and  all  goodness. 


THE  GORSEDD  PRAYER,  FROM  THE  BOOK  OF  TALHALAJIN 
THE  GREAT  POET. 


Grant,  O  God  !  thy  refuge ; 
And  in  refuge,  reason  ; 

1  Cadocus  the  wise,  i.  e.  St.  Cattwg.         -  MS.  Triads  of  the  Round  Table. 


470  SHORT  NOTICES. 

And  in  reason,  light ; 

And  in  light,  truth  ; 

And  in  truth,  justice ; 

And  in  justice,  love ; 

And  in  love,  the  love  of  God  ; 

And  in  the  love  of  God,  all  blessedness. 

God  and  all  goodness. 


THE  GORSEDD  PRAYER,  CALLED  THE  PRAYER  OF  THE 
GWYDDONIAID. 


God!  impart  thy  strength ;  and  in  strength,  the  power  to  suffer; 
And  to  suffer  for  the  truth :  and  in  truth,  light ; 
And  in  light,  all  blessedness ;  and  in  blessedness,  love ; 
And  in  love,  God  ;  and  in  God,  all  goodness. 

And  so  it  terminates.     [From  the  Great  Book  of  Mai^m.] 


THE  PREDICTION  OF  PEREDUR  THE  BARD  OF  BRITAIN. 

When  the  primitive  country  shall  bewail  the  miseries  of  stratagem. 
When  lamentation  and  dispersion  befall  the  populace  of  secluded 

dales, 
Blessed  the  lips,  that  in  confidential  secrecy, 
Shall  fluently  pronounce  three  words  of  the  ancient  and  primitive 

language. 

Composed  by  Peredur  the  Bard. 

(the  same  in  varied  expressions.) 
THE  STANZA  OF  THE  GORSEDD  OF  THE  WINTER  SOLSTICE. 

When  the  vale  of  Gwrthenin  shall  bewail  the  miseries  of  strati- 
gem. 

Under  the  separation  of  the  rods^  of  the  populace  of  secluded 
dales, 

I  Rods  must,  here,  imply  inscribed  billets. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  471 

Blessed  the  lips  that^  in  confidential  secrecy, 
Shall  pronounce  three  words  of  the  ancient  and  primitive  language. 

Composed  by  Merddin  Emrys. 


DON,  KING  OF  LOCHLYN. 

A.  D.  267,  Don,  king  of  Lochlyn  and  Dublin,  led  the  Irish  to 
Gwynedd^,  where  they  remained  for  one  hundred  and  twenty 
nine  years.  Ghvydion,  the  son  of  Don,  was  highly  celebrated  for 
knowledge  and  sciences.  He  was  the  first  who  taught  the  Gam- 
bro-Britons  to  perform  the  plays  of  Illusion  and  Phantasm,  and 
introduced  the  knowledge  of  letters  to  Ireland  and  Lochlyn :'  but 
after  the  Irish  and  Lochlynians  had  inhabited  North  Wales  for 
one  hundred  and  twenty-nine  years,  the  sons  of  Cuneddav  Wledig 
came  there  from  the  North,  overcame  the  Irish  and  their  confe- 
derates, and  drove  them,  in  flight,  to  the  Isle  of  Man.  They  were 
slaughtered  at  the  battle  of  Gerrig  y  Gwyddyl ;  and  Gaswallawn 
Lawhir,  with  his  own  sword,  killed  Syrigi  Wyddel,  the  son  of 
Mwrchan,  the  son  of  Eumach  the  Aged,  the  son  of  Eilo,  the  son 
of  Bhechgyr,  the  son  of  Gathbalig,  the  son  of  Gathal,  the  son  of 
Machno,  the  son  of  Einion,  the  son  of  Gelert,  the  son  of  Math,  the 
son  of  Mathonwy,  the  son  of  Trathol,  the  son  of  Owydion,  the  son 
of  Don,  king  of  Mona  and  Arvon,  the  Gantred,  and  of  Dublin  and 
Lochlyn;  who  came  to  the  Isle  of  Mona,  one  hundred  and  twenty- 
nine  years  before  the  incarnation  of  Ghrist. 

Eumach  the  Aged  fought,  sword  to  sword,  with  Owen  Vinddu, 
the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig,  in  the  city  of  Ffaraon ;'  and  he  slew 
Owen,  who  also  slew  him. 


SERIGI. 

After  the  departure  of  the  Romans  from  Britain,  Serigi  took 
upon  him  the  supreme  government  of  Mona,  Gwynedd,  and  the 
Gantred ;  but  so  excessive  was  the  oppression  of  the  Irish  there. 


I  As  Gwynedd  did  not  anciently  imply  the  whole  of  the  present  North 
Wales,  I  have  generally  in  documents  of  remote  date,  either  left  it  untran- 
slated or  rendered  it — Yendotia. 

«  MS.  of  Twrog.  *  Called,  also,  Dinas  Emrys,  in  Snowdon. 


472  8H0BT  NOTICES. 

that  messeogers  were  sent  to  Gunedday  Wledig,  who  dispatched 
his  sons  to  Owynedd,  and  they  put  them  to  flight ;  except  in 
Mona,  where  they  had  become  a  distinct  nation,  with  Serigi  for 
their  king,  who  came  with  a  strong  force  to  Gwyrvai,  in  Arvon, 
to  fight  against  Gaswallawn,  who  drove  them  back  to  Mona,  where 
they  were  slain  at  a  place  called  Cerrig  y  Gwyddyl;  whereupon 
Gaswallawn  and  the  family  of  Guneddav  placed  saints  in  that  is- 
land, to  teach  the  Ghristian  faith  there ;  and  bestowed  lands  on 
the  Gambro-Britons  who  were  brought  there  from  Dyved,  €h>wer, 
and  Owent ;  so  that  Mona  became  celebrated  for  its  saints,  wise 
men,  and  pious  persons. 


GWYNEDD.» 

GwTDiON  Wyddel,  the  son  of  Don,  the  son  of  Dar,  the  son  of 
Daronwy,  the  son  of  Umach  Wyddel,  of  the  city  of  Ffaraon,  was 
slain  by  Owen  Vinddu,  the  son  of  Maxen  Wledig :  this  Umaeh 
led  twenty  thousand  Irish  from  Ireland  to  Gwynedd,  where  they 
landed ;  and  where  they  and  their  descendants  remained  for  one 
hundred  and  twenty-nine  years. 

The  son  of  Umach  was  Syrigi  Wyddel,  who  was  slain  at  Cerrig 
y  Gwyddyl,  in  Mona,  by  Gaswallawn  Lawhir,  the  son  of  Einion 
Yrth,  the  son  of  Guneddav  Wledig,  in  the  time  of  Owen,  the  son 
of  Maxen  Wledig ;  and  upon  the  greensward  they  found  a  mile 
infant,  who  was  Daronwy,  the  son  of  Umach  Wyddel,  SyrigFs 
brother,  of  the  city  of  Ffaraon.  An  illustrious  chieftain,  who  re- 
sided just  by,  commiserating  his  beauty  and  destitution,  reared 
him  up  as  one  of  his  children ;  but  he  became,  eventually,  one  of 
the  three  native  oppressors;  for  he  confederated  with  the  Irish,  and 
seized  the  dominion  from  its  rightful  Gambro-British  owner, 
namely, 


SAINT  DAVID. 

Saint  David,  the  son  of  Sandde,  the  son  of  Gedig,  the  son  of  Gere- 
dig,  the  son  of  Guneddav  Wledig,  removed  his  see  from  Oaerlleon 

1  From  old  MS.  Pedigrees. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  473 

upon  Usk  to  ancient  Menevia,  in  Ceredigion;  after  which  his 
grandfather,  Ynyr  of  Caer  Gawch,  gave  him  all  his  freehold  lands, 
which  comprised  the  territory  of  Pebydiog  and  its  dependencies ; 
upon  which  he  transferred  the  episcopal  see  there,  to  avoid  the  in- 
corsions  of  the  pagan  Saxons.  He  established  a  school  and  church 
there,  to  impart  pious  instruction  and  holy  learning  to  the  native 
Gambro-Britons,  who  had  quite  forgotten  their  former  sacred  know- 
ledge. It  was  through  this,  that  the  country  was  designated 
Pebydiog,  [Popedom]  Saint  David  being  the  Pope  of  that 
district. 

MAEN  CETTI. 

Maen  Cetti,  on  Cevn-y-bryn,  in  Gower,  was,  says  ancient  tra- 
dition, adored  by  the  pagans;  but  Saint  David  split  it  with  a 
sword,  in  proof  that  it  was  not  sacred ;  and  he  commanded  a  well 
to  spring  from  under  it,  which  flowed  accordingly.  After  this 
event,  those  who  previously  were  infidels,  became  converted  to  the 
Christian  faith.  There  is  a  church  in  the  vicinity,  called  Llanddewi, 
where  it  is  said  that  St.  David  was  the  rector,  before  he  became 
consecrated  a  bishop;  and  it  is  the  oldest  church  in  Gower.  When, 
however,  he  became  a  bishop  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  he  placed  a 
man,  named  Cenydd,  the  son  of  Aneurin,  the  son  of  Caw,  in  his 
stead  at  Llanddewi,  who  erected  a  church  called  Llangenydd ;  and 
his  brother,  called  Madog,  made  the  church  of  Llan-Madog. 

D\VYNWEN. 

A  Poem,  composed  by  Dafydd  ab  Gwilym  to  Saint  Dwynwen, 
beseeching  her  to  become  his  messenger  of  good  omen  to  Morvydd, 
begins  thus : 

Oh !  thou  tears-endued  Dwynwen,  pure  essence  of  beauty  !  fair 
grandchild  of  Flamgwyr's  congregation  !  splendid  thy  golden 
image;  but  thou  wert  afflicted  yonder  by  wretched  wrathful 
men.  He  who  shall  watch,  with  guileless  intent,  at  thy  shrine, 
thou  refulgent  Indeg,  shall  depart  from  Llanddwynwen  with  neither 
the  aspect  of  sickness  nor  anguish. 

The  Welsh  bards  call  Dwynwen  the  Goddess,  or  Saint,  of  love 
and  afiection,  as  the  poets  designate  Veuus.^ 

*  Notes  in  D.  Jones,  Vicar  of  DyfFr}Ti  Clwyd's  MS.  circ.  ann.  1687,  upon 
the  authority  of  Lewis  Morris. 


474  SHORT  NOTICES. 

There  was,  in  the  time  of  Dafydd  ab  Gwilym,  a  gilded  image  of 
Dwynwen,  at  the  church  of  Llanddwynwen,  in  Mona,  where  the 
Monks  sold  the  efficacious  virtues  of  that  saint.^ 

Maelon  Dafodrill,  and  Dwynwen,  the  daughter  of  Saint  Bry- 
chan,  mutually  loved  each  other :  Maelon  sought  her  in  unappro- 
priated union,  but  was  rejected;  for  which  he  left  her  in  animosity, 
and  aspersed  her,  which  caused  extreme  sorrow  and  anguish  to 
her.  Being  one  night  alone  in  a  wood,  she  prayed  that  God  would 
cure  her  of  her  love ;  and  the  Almighty  appearing  to  her,  while 
she  was  asleep,  gave  her  a  delicious  liquor,  which  quite  fulfilled 
her  desire;  and  she  saw  the  same  draught  administered  to  Maelon, 
who,  thereupon,  became  frozen  to  a  lump  of  ice. 

The  Almighty,  also,  deigned  to  give  her  three  choices ;  and  she 
first  desired  that  Maelon  should  be  unfrozen ; — ^next,  that  her  sup- 
plications should  be  granted  in  favour  of  all  true-hearted  lovers ; 
so  that  they  should  either  obtain  the  objects  of  their  affection,  or 
be  cured  of  their  passion ; — and,  thirdly,  that,  thenceforth,  she 
should  never  wish  to  be  married:  and  the  three  requests  were  con- 
ceded to  her ;  whereupon  she  took  the  veil,  and  became  a  saint. 
Every  faithful  lover,  who,  subsequently,  invoked  her,  was  either 
relieved  from  his  passion,  or  obtained  the  object  of  his  affection.' 

Dwynwen  was  one  of  the  daughters  of  Brychan  Brycheiniog,  an 
Irish  prince,  who  obtained  the  regal  government  of  the  conntfj 
called  now,  from  his  name,  Brycheiniog.  His  descendants,  male 
and  female,  were  all  saints.^ 

You  may  perceive,  from  the  mirthful  character  of  the  poem,  tbit 
Dafydd  ab  Gwilym  liad  very  poor  faith  in  the  eflicacious  virtnes 
of  the  saint.* 


BRYNACH  WYDDEL. 

Bbynach  Wyddel  was  king  of  Gwynedd,  comprising  the  Isk  of 
Man,  Mona,  and  Arvon ;  and  he  was  the  first  king  of  those  coun- 
tries who  received  the  Christian  faith.  He  was  converted  and 
baptised  by  St.  Rhidian  of  Gower  and  Rheged;  and  made  the  fii^ 

Í  Note  by  Lewis  Morris. 

*  MS.  of  Huw  Huws,  the  bard  of  Mona. 

*  Lewis  Morris's  note  in  IIuw  Huws's  MS. 

*  Lewis  Morris's  note. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  475 

Christian  churches  in  North  Wales ;  inculcating,  in  them,  faith 
and  baptism  among  the  Gambro- Britons  and  Irish  of  his  kingdom. 
He  lived  in  the  time  of  the  Emperor  Maximus,  and  fought  with 
Owen  Vinddu,  the  son  of  Maximus,  for  the  government  of  Gwy- 
nedd,  comprising  Maw,  the  Isle  of  Man,  Mona,  Arvon,  and  the 
Gantred ;  and  they  mutually  killed  each  other.  The  conflict  took 
place  in  the  city  of  Faraon,  where  the  blood  remains  visible  on 
the  stones  to  this  very  day. 


THE  MILK-WHITE  MILCH  COW. 

The  Milk-white  milch  cow  gave  enough  of  milk  to  every  one 
who  desired  it ;  and  however  frequently  milked,  or  by  whatever 
number  of  persons,  she  was  never  found  deficient.  All  persons 
who  drank  of  her  milk,  were  healed  of  every  illness ;  from  fools 
they  became  wise ;  and  from  being  wicked,  became  happy.  This 
cow  went  round  the  world ;  and  wherever  she  appeared,  she  filled 
with  milk  all  the  vessels  that  could  be  found;  leaving  calves  behind 
her  for  all  the  wise  and  happy.  It  was  from  her  that  all  the 
milch  cows  in  the  world  were  obtained.  After  traversing  through 
the  Island  of  Britain,  for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of  country  and 
kindred,  she  reached  the  Vale  of  Towy ;  where,  tempted  by  her 
fine  appearance  and  superior  condition,  the  natives  sought  to  kill 
and  eat  her ;  but  just  as  they  were  proceeding  to  efiect  their  pur- 
pose, she  vanished  from  between  their  hands,  and  was  never  seen 
again. 

A  house  still  remains  in  the  locality,  called  Y  Fuwch  Laethwen 
Lefrith,  [the  Milk-white  Milcli  Cow.] 

ILLUSION  AND  PHANTASM. 

A  POETICAL  composition,  in  which  a  number  of  persons,  assum- 
ing characters  different,  with  regard  to  rights,  grades,  and  condi- 
tion, from  those  which  really  belong  to  them,  carry  on  contentions 
and  consultations,  is  called  a  poem  of  Illusion  and  Phantasm. 
In  such  representations,  persons,  under  disguise,  dispute  with  each 
other,  either  for  or  against  the  subject  submitted  to  their  consider- 
ation; so  as  to  develope  its  just  and  unjust, — its  cheering  and  its 
disconsolate  tendencies,  with  regard  cither  to  chance,  conironiality, 

3   P 


476  SHORT   NOTICES. 

and  necessity, — or  their  opposites;  so  as  eventually  to  confer 
honour  and  reward  on  virtue,  and  reflect  disgrace,  loss,  and  pu- 
nishment on  vice;  and  thus  to  portray  the  misery  of  all  persons  of 
evil  habits,  actions,  and  dispositions, — and  the  prosperity  of  the 
good.  A  poem  of  this  description,  is  carried  on  by  question  and 
answer;  for  and  against;  for  and  for;  opposition  and  co-opposi- 
tion ;  that  the  subject  or  event  under  discussion,  may  appear  in 
its  true  form  and  semblance;  and  that  the  persons  attracted 
thereby,  may,  from  first  to  last,  perceive  things  in  their  real 
characters,  and  be  led  to  acknowledge  that  the  whole  of  the  dis- 
guised representation  tended  to  unfold  the  truth.  For  these  reasons 
compositions  of  this  sort  were  variously  called  poems,  plays,  and 
arguments  of  Illusion  and  Phantasm,  in  older  times ;  but  now  the 
place  of  performance,  including  the  actors,  is  called, — ^the  Hillock 
of  Illusion  and  Phantasm,  and  the  representaion, — a  Play  of 
Miracles.^ 


THE  PRINCIPAL  TERRITORIES  OF  BRITAIN.» 

1.  Gwent; — from  the  river  Usk  to  Gloucester  bridge. 

2.  Morganwg ; — from  the  river  Usk  to  Ystrad  Tawy. 

3.  Rheged ; — from  Ystrad  Tawy  to  Ystrad  Tywy. 

4.  Dyved ; — from  Ystrad  Tywy  to  Glyn  Teivi. 

6.  Ceredigion; — from  Ystrad  Teivi  to  the  sea,  and  onwards, 
including  Dyvi  and  Cantrev^  Orddwyv. 

6.  Gwynedd; — ^from   Cantrev   Orddwyv  to  Menai,   including 
also,  Aerven  and  Teymllwg*. 

7.  Teymllwg ; — from  Aerven  to  Argoed®  Derwennydd. 

8.  Deivr®  and  Bryneich ; — from  Argoed  Derwennydd  to  the  riter 
Trenn^ 


1  From  leuan  Yawr  ap  y  Diwlith's  work  on  the  Welsh  poetical  metres. 

^  The  subdivisions  presented  in  the  text  seem  to  delineate  the  bouidaiMKi' 
ancient  British  districts,  prior  to  the  Saxon  invasion.  Most  of  them  000«*' 
pond  with  territories  still  well  understood  by  Cambro-British  Antiqnaiiet;  ^ 
with  regard  to  two  or  three  other  instances,  the  lines  of  demarcation  are  soti 
now,  sufficiently  manifest. 

8  The  territory  or  Cantred  of  the  Ordovices,  probably. 

*  Vale  Royal  of  Chester.  5  Derwent  wood,  apparently. 

*  Deiri  and  Bemicia.  '  The  river  Trent. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  477 

9.  Argoed  Calchvynydd ; — between  the  river  Trenn  and  the 
river  Tain/  that  is,  the  river  of  London. 

10.  Fferyllwg ; — ^between  the  rivers  Wye  and  Severn. 

11.  Powis; — ^between  Aerven,  the  extremity  of  Teymllwg,  the 
borders  of  Fferyllwg,  and  Cantrev  Orddwyv. 

12.  Brycheiniog ; — ^from  the  sources  of  the  Wye  to  the  source 
of  the  Udc,  and  thence  on  to  the  extremities  of  Fferyllwg. 

13.  Gaint ; — ^from  the  river  Tain  and  Môr^  Tawch  to  the  confines 
of  Arllechwedd  Gbledin. 

14.  Arllechwedd  Graledin ; — from  the  last  territory  to  the  ex- 
tremities of  Dyvnaint,'  Gwlad*  yr  Hav,  and  Argoed  Calchvynydd. 

15.  Dyvnaint  and  Cemiw  ;^  from  Arllechwedd  Ghdedin  and  the 
intermediate  seas,  to  the  British  Channel. 

16.  Gwlad  yrHav; — ^fromthe  river  Goreivion^  along  the  extre- 
mity of  the  territory  of  Calchvynydd,  the  river'  Fferyllwg  and 
Gwent,  to  Môr  Essyllwg,  called  the  Severn  Sea,  and  the  confines 

of  Dyvnaint  and  Cemiw. 
17.8  •     •    «     « 


THE  FIFTEEN  TRIBES  OF  NORTH  WALES.» 

In  the  time  of  Howel  the  Good,  King  of  all  Wales,  Fifteen 
Tribes,  of  the  principal  families  who  claimed  Cambro-British  pri- 
vileges, were  enfranchised;  for  Ilowel  the  Good,  the  son  of  Cadell, 
the  son  of  Rhodri  the  Great,  being  king  of  all  Wales,  caused  the 
ancient  laws  of  Dyvnwal  Moehnud,  the  son  of  Dyvnvarth,  the  son 
of  Prydain,  the  son  of  Aedd  the  Great,  to  bo  renewed  and  im- 


1  The  Thames; — and  it  was  from  its  situatioii  on  the  Tain  that  the 
Metropolis  derived  its  primitive  appellation — Llundain,  a  name  that  it  still 
retains  in  Welsh,  heing  composed  of  Uun,  a  formation  or  structure,  and  Tain 
the  Thames :  hence  it  Implies — the  structure  on  the  Thames. 

*  The  German  Ocean.  '  Devon.  *  Somersetshire. 

*  Cornwall.  **'  Uncertain. 

7  The  name  of  the  river  here  alluded  to  is  omitted  ;  and  this  part  of  the 
sentence  is  otherwise  ohscure. 

•  Mr.  Cobb,  of  CardifTs  MS.  whence  my  Father  transcribed  the  article, 
was  here  defective,  an  entire  leaf  l>cing  lost. 

•  From  the  MS.  of  Anthony  Powel,  of  Llwydarth,  Tir  larll,  who  died  in 
1618.     See  his  tombstone  in  Llangynwyd  Churt'hyard. 


478  SÔORT   NOTICES. 

proved;  for  which  purpose,  the  chiefs  of  families  of  the  WeUi 
nation  were  summoned  to  the  Holy  House  on  TafF/  in  Dyved. 
But  because  the  principal  families  of  North  Wales  and  Anglesea 
had  become  degenerated,  by  intermarriages  with  Irish  and  Locb- 
lynians  of  mean  descent,  no  more  than  fifteen  heads  of  families,  of 
all  the  principal  tribes  of  the  Welsh  nation,  could  be  found  tliere, 
of  unmixed  lineage  and  species:    therefore  Howel  caused  those 
heads  of  houses,  together  with  their  lineal  descendants,  to  be  en- 
franchised, as  the  fifteen  tribes  of  genealogical  chieftaincy, — and 
he  conferred  on  them  the  rights  of  seat  and  voice  in  every  extra- 
ordinary convention,  and  in  all  courts   of  commons  and  lords 
throughout  Britain.     At  this  time,  also,  the  twenty-four  principal 
lineages,  of  undegenerate  descent,  were  enfranchised  in  Powis; 
with  full  rights  of  seat  and  voice  in  every  national  assembly  of 
commons   and   lords,    and    in   every    extraordinary   convention, 
throughout  the   Island  of  Britain.     These  privileged  heads  of 
families,  were  especially  enjoined,  by  law,  to  keep  genealogical  roll» 
in  due  order ;    according  to  the  manner  of  preserving  such  records 
in  the  districts  of  Glamorgan  and  Gwent ;  so  that  the  worthiness 
and  nobility  of  family  chiefs  might  be  verified,  and  due  privileges 
conferred  on  the  most  meritorious  of  them.     It  was  in  this  man- 
ner that  authorised  memorials  of  noble  genealogy  and  arms  origi- 
nated in  North  Wales  and  Powis ;  and  Howel  the  Good,  in  his 
wisdom,  made  a  book,  entitled  "  The  Nobility  of  the  men  of  the 
North  ;■'■'  i.  e.  the  nobility  of  the  tribes  of  Gwynedd  and  Mon», 
and  the  lineages  of  Powis. 

BLEGYWKYD.2 

Having  framed  a  code  of  laws  suitable  to  the  Welsh  nation  and 
its  tribes,  conformably  to  the  judgment  of  teachers  and  wise  men, 
and  according  to  the  requisites  of  the  Christian  faith,  and  the 

1  €€  Ty  Gwyn  ar  Daf,"  where  Howel  the  Good  held  his  legislatÌTe  convfn- 
tion  m  927y  has  hitherto  been  literally  translated  White  House  on  Taff ;  and 
some  have  advanced  an  unsatisfactory  reason  for  that  acceptation  ;  but  I  im 
persuaded  that  the  epithet — **  Gwyn" — here,  as  in  most  others  places,  when 
attached  to  proper  names,  really  signifies  Holy  ;  and,  in  further  confirmation 
of  this  opinion,  some  old  documents  in  my  possession  include  *  Y  Ty  Gwynn 
ar  Day,"  among  our  earlier  religious  houses  ;  hence,  *^Holy  House  on  Taff* 
appears  to  be  the  consistent  rendering. 

'  From  the  Rev.  Evan  Evans's  MS.  fragments  in  a  book  at  Plâs  Gw\ti, 
Mona. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  479 

distributive  system  of  social  order,  Howel  the  Good  directed  Ble- 
gjwrjd,  the  son  of  Morgan,  archdeacon  of  Llandaff,  to  write  them 
in  regular  books,  and  on  rolls ;  and  likewise  to  inscribe  them  on 
flat  memorial-stones,  and  to  cover  the  walls  of  his  court  and  hall 
of  justice  with  such  tablets,  in  full  publicity  ;^  that  all,  who  chose, 
might  see  and  read  them,  and  transcribe  them  on  skins ;  and  that, 
thus,  they  should  become  well  known  to  all  the  Welsh  nation,  as 
occasions  might  occur. 

lEUAN»  VAWR,  THE  SON  OF  THE  DEWLESS. 

The  Bards  of  Tir  larll  having  gone  to  the  Dewless  Hillock,  on 
one  of  St.  John'^s  midsummer  festivals,  to  hold  there  a  chair  of 
vocal  song,  found  a  new  bom  child,  half  alive,  on  it.  Rhys,  the 
son  of  Bhiccart,  the  son  of  Einion,  the  son  of  Gollwyn,  took  it 
home  with  him,  and  placed  it  under  the  care  of  a  foster  mother. 
The  child  lived,  was  put  to  school,  and  brought  up  to  a  learned 
profession.  He  imbibed  knowledge  with  all  the  avidity  that  a 
child  would  suck  its  mother''s  milk ;  and  early  in  life  he  took  the 
lead  of  all  preceptors  in  Wales. 

He  wrote  several  books ;— one  of  which  was  called  "  The  pre- 
servation of  the  Welsh  language,  the  art  of  vocal  song,  and  all 
that  appertained  to  them,  according  to  the  rights  and  usages  of  the 
Welsh  nation,  and  the  judicial  decisions  of  wise  men ;''''— others 
were  called  "  The  Greals,"*"*  "  The  Mabinogion,'''  "  The  nine  tropes 
and  twenty-four  embellishments  of  diction,"*"*  "The  Book  of  Fables,'^ 
and  many  more.  He  also  composed  a  work  for  the  preservation  of 
the  moral  maxims  and  laws  of  the  Welsh  nation.  He  received 
the  name  of  John,  the  son  of  the  Dewless,  because  he  was  found, 
as  already  mentioned,  on  tlio  Dewless  Hillock,  on  St.  John's  mid- 
summer festival ; — and  because  ho  was  a  large  man,  ho  was  called 
Big  John,  the  son  of  the  Dewless.  He  lived  and  died  at  Llan- 
gynwyd,  where  he  was  buried  with  the  family  of  Llwydarth.     It 


1  This  usage  of  covering  the  walls  of  halls  with  imj)ortant  information  is 
noticed  in  the  My  v.  Arch,  vol  III.  p.  199. 

^  leuan  corresponds  with  the  English  name — John,  hut  it,  doubtless,  was 
originally  pronounced  levan  ;  the  letters  u  and  v  being  commutable  in  old 
Welsh  MSS.  as  well  us  in  old  Latin  books :  and  such  is  the  pronunciation 
still  in  Glamorgan  of  the  name  (Evan)  derived  from  it. 


480  SHORT   NOTICES. 

was  currently  reported  that,  in  all  probability,  he  was  the  son  of 
Bhys,  the  son  of  Bhiccart,  the  son  of  Einion,  by  a  lady  of  high 
rank ;  and  when  it  was  so  asserted  in  his  presence,  he  merely  held 
his  tongue,  allowing  that  belief  to  continue.^ 

TEIE  TRIADS  OF  EMBELLISHMENTS.» 

1.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  poetic  genius ;  light  of  the 
understanding,  amusement  of  reason,  and  preceptor  of  knowledge. 

2.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  reason ;  candle  of  the  soul, 
might  of  wisdom,  and  transparency  of  knowledge. 

3.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  wisdom;  beauty  of  the  hea- 
vens, strength  of  amusement,  and  the  word  of  God. 

4.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  the  understanding ;  eye  of 
genius,  ear  of  reason,  and  right  hand  of  meditation. 

5.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  knowledge ;  might  of  the 
world,  joy  of  the  wise,  and  grace  of  God. 

6.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  God ;  King  of  the  Heavens, 
(soul  of  worlds),'  Father  of  animation,  and  Immensity  of  love. 

7.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  Heaven ;  life,  blessedness, 
and  heavenly  tranquillity. 

8.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  the  sun ;  torch  of  the 
worlds,  eye  of  day,  and  sprightliness  of  the  heavens. 

9.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  the  moon ;  sun  of  night, 
the  beautiful,  and  sun  of  the  fairies. 

10.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  the  stars ;  eyes  of  serenity, 
candles  of  heaven,  (God),  and  gems  of  the  sky. 

11.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  the  sea;  field  of  Gwen- 
hidwy,'  court  of  Neivion,'  and  fountain  of  Venus,  (and  glutton  of 
the  world). 

12.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  the  waves ;  sheep  of  Gwen- 
hidwy,  dragons  of  the  salt  deep,  and  blossoms  of  ocean. 

13.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  summer;  chevalier  of  lote, 
father  of  vigour,  and  keeper  of  ardour. 

1  From  Mr.  John  Bradford's  memoranda,  extracted  firom  Anthony  PoweTs 
MS. ;  then  [circ.  ann.  ITCO"]  at  Groettrehên,  near  Bridgend. 

s  The  variations  here  pi^esented  within  parentheses,  are  similarly  placed  in 
the  Welsh  text. 

>  Druidic  mythological  characters.  See  the  different  series  of  the  Triads  of 
the  Island  of  Britain,  Myv.  Arch.  Vol.  II. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  481 

14.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  the  wind;  hero  of  the 
world,  architect  of  bad  weather,  and  assaulter  of  the  hills. 

15.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  flowers ;  gems  of  shrubs, 
beauties  of  summer,  and  eyes  of  zephyrs. 

16.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  herbs ;  mantle  of  summer, 
aspect  of  beauty,  and  hallfloor  of  love. 

17.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  zephyrs ;  countenance 
(smile)  of  joy,  salve  of  heaven,  and  smile  (face)  of  love. 

18.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  genius ;  life  of  knowledge, 
soul  of  reason,  and  gift  of  God. 

19.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  conscience ;  light  of  hea- 
ven, eye  of  truth,  and  voice  of  God. 

20.  The  three  embellishing  names  of  knowledge;  paths  of  truth, 
hand  of  reason,  and  strength  of  genius. 

21.1 

LLYWELYN  BREN.^ 

Lltwblvn  Bren,  the  Aged,  called  also  Llywelyn  the  Ugly, 
demolished  many  castles  of  chieftains,  namely,  the  castles  of  St. 
Georges,  the  castle  of  Sully,  the  castle  of  Tregogan,  the  castle  of 
Foulke  Fitzwarin,  the  castle  of  Barry,  the  castle  of  St.  Athan, 
the  castle  of  Beauprè,  the  castle  of  Kenffig,  the  castle  of  Ruthyn, 
the  .castle  of  Gelli  Grarn,  and  the  castle  of  Flemingston  ; — and  he 
killed  such  numbers  of  English  and  Normans,  that  no  Englishman 
could  be  found  who  would  so  much  as  entertain,  for  a  moment, 
the  idea  of  remaining  in  Glamorgan.  At  this  period,  there  was  in 
each  town  and  village  a  sort  of  land  steward,  called  preventive 
mayor;  but  Llywelyn  the  Ugly  had  them  all  hanged;  and  the 
chieftains  were  obliged  to  discontinue  such  appointments,  because 
no  person  wliatever  could  be  found  to  undertake  the  office,  either 
for  money  or  goods. 

GWAETHVOED.^ 

GwAETHvoED,  Lord  of  Cibwyr  and  Ceredigion,  Uved  in  the  time 
of  King  Edgar,  who  summoned  the  Welsh  princes  to  Chester,  to 

>  The  Triad  here  numbered,  and  whatever  others  might  have  followed,  are 
wanting  in  the  text. 
'  From  John  Philip's  MS.  of  Trees,  near  Bridgend. 
»  From  the  Red  Book  of  PantUiwydd,  one  of  the  Truman  MSS. 


482  SHORT   NOTICES. 

row  his  barge  on  the  river  Dee.  Gwaethvoed  returned  an  answer 
to  Edgar,  saying  that  he  could  not  row  a  barge ;  and  if  he  could, 
that  he  would  not  do  so,  except  to  save  a  person'^s  life»  whether 
king  or  vassal.  Edgar  sent  a  second,  and  very  imperious,  com- 
mand, but  no  answer  whatever  was  given  to  the  messenger,  who, 
consequently,  begged,  with  submission,  to  know  what  kind  of 
reply  he  should  return  to  the  king;  say  to  him,  said  Gwaeth- 
voed. 

Fear  him  who  fears  not  death : 

whereupon  Edgar  went  to  him,  and  giving  him  his  hand  in  great 
kindness,  entreated  that  he  would  become  his  friend  and  relation ; 
and  so  it  was ;  and  thenceforth,  the  motto  of  all  descended  from 
Gwaethvoed  has  been, — "  Fear  him  who  fears  not  death.""  The 
arms  of  Gwaethvoed  were  vert,  a  chevron  or,  between  three 
wolves'  heads,  dropping  blood,  until  the  time  of  Henry  VIII.  when 
the  armorial  bearings  of  the  princes  of  Powis  were  given  to  the 
lineage  of  Gwaethvoed:  but  some  of  his  descendants  continued 
to  bear  the  original  coat  of  arms,  with  the  motto,  already  men- 
tioned, on  their  shield. 


GENTILITY  AND  UNGENTILITY.i 

Gentility  and  ITngentility  were  found  in  three  places,  without 
either  father  or  mother.  AH  grades  of  gentility  emanate  from 
God  and  Heaven,  where  gentility  and  ungentility,  freeman  and 
vassal,  originated;  consequently  we  shall  begin  there;  'for  Gkxl 
created  ten  grades  of  angels  from  the  same  noble  materials ;  but 
the  tenth  grade  fell,  through  pride,  which  is  the  principal  charac- 
teristic of  meanness :  hence  they  became  bound  in  that  captivity 
which  shall  endure  for  evermore. 

Secondly,  gentility  and  ungentility  were  found  in  the  time  of 
Adam ;  for  God  created  him  without  father  or  mother, — like  ft 
tree  on  the  ground,  which  possesses  leaves,  rind,  and  heart :  so 
from  Adam  and  Eve  were  bom  three  brothers,  two  of  whom  were 
genteel,  but  the  other,  ungenteel  and  servile ;  for  Gain  became  a 
low  vassal,  because  he  killed  his  brother  Abel,  from  depravity  of 
heart,  pride,  and  hatred. 

1  From  the  Black  Book  of  Pantlliwydd,  one  of  the  Truman  MSS. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  483 

Thirdly,  gentility  and  nngentility  were  fonnd  in  Noah'^s  three 
sons,  by  the  same  mother;  for  one  of  them  was  a  lord,  the  second 
a  gentleman,  but  the  third  was  a  servile  clown. 

Japheth,  the  son  of  Noah,  was  the  first  who  made  a  targe,  with 
a  lake  in  it,  to  signify  that  he  and  his  brothers  possessed  the  whole 
world.  From  this  time  to  the  coronation  of  Christ,  two  thoa- 
sand  and  eighteen  years  interrened.  It  was  in  the  war  between 
Troy  and  Greece  that  coats  and  laws  of  arms  were  first  de- 
signed and  established ;  and  this  was  the  first  enactment  that  ever 
was  made,  except  the  institution  of  marriage,  which  was  originally 
ordained  by  the  Almighty  himself.  The  law  of  arms  commenced 
with  the  nine  grades  of  angels  in  Heayen,  who  were  crowned,  seye- 
rally,  with  nine  different  precious  stones,  of  nine  various  colours, 
and  possessing  nine  distinct  virtues.  1st,  Topaz,  which  is  a  semi- 
stone,  called  or  in  heraldry;  its  virtues  being, — that  any  gentle- 
man bearing  it  in  battle,  shall  be  a  faithful  messenger  to  his  king. 
This  stone  was  in  the  crown  of  the  angel,  when  Lucifer  was 
driven  from  Heaven  2ndly,  the  stone  called  Ysmaragans,  which 
is  an  enblem  of  «ŵm  in  heraldry ;  and  its  virtue  is  such, — that 
whosoever  shall  bear  it  on  his  shield  in  battle,  will  be  potent  in 
the  war  of  his  king.  Its  rirtuo  was  possessed  by  the  croAvn  of  the 
angel ^ 

THE  PEDIGREE  OF  DA\^YDD  DDU  GYXLL^\^'N\NT1.2 

Davtdd  Ddu  Gynllwynwr,  the  son  of  Rhys,  the  son  of  Owen, 
the  son  of  Elaethwy,  the  son  of  Idnerth,  the  son  of  Riccart,  the 
son   of  Caradog,  the   son  of  Cadivor,  the  son  of  Collwyn. 

Davydd  Ddu  Gynllwynwr  slew  thirteen  men  that  besot  him  at 
Abermvan  Castle.     He  stood  inside  of  the  hall  door,  and  slew 


1  The  original  text  of  this  Fragment  is  evidently  a  Welsh  version  of  a  por- 
of  the  ancient  rules  of  Heraldry  given  in  the  *'  Boke  of  Blasyng  of 

Aimji,'' eont^ned  in  the  "Boke  of  Se}Tit  Albons,"  published  in  14tt(»,  by 
Lftdy  Jnumna  Bemers,  Prioress  of  the  Nunnery'  at  Sopewell,  near  St.  Albans, 
BbI  whether  this  Welsh  fragment  is  a  translation  made  from  that  work,  or 
from  some  more  ancient  copy  of  tliose  laws,  is  very  doubtful,  as  the  Book  of 
Uaaonmg  of  Arms  is  confessedly  a  translation,  or  compilation,  fn>m  other 
lOMio :  for  it  concludes  thus,  '*  Here  now  endyth  the  bi»ko  of  blasyn^  i»f 
araijs  translatyt  and  compylyt  togcdyr  at    Seynt    Albons  the  yere  i\c 

XCCCCLXXXVI  " 

2  From  Watkin  Giles's  MS.— Dafydd  D<lu  Ciynllwynwr,  siiíuitu^— mmk 
David  the  Ambu:<cader,  or  Wavlaytr. 

"     '   3   Q 


484  SHORT   NOTICES. 

every  one  who  advanced,  just  as  he  came  to  the  door,  until  eleven 
fell ;  and  pursuing  the  other  two,  as  they  fled,  he  slew  them  abo ; 
hence  he  was  called  Davydd  Ddu  Gynllwynwr. 

DAVYDD  AB  GWILYM. 

The  pedigree  of  Davydd  ab  Gwilym.  Davydd,  the  son  of  CKri- 
lym  Gam,  the  son  of  Davydd,  the  son  of  leuan,  the  son  of  Howel, 
the  son  of  Cynwrig,  the  son  of  Gronwy,  the  son  of  Meredith,  the 
son  of  Madog,  the  son  of  lorwerth,  the  son  of  Llywarch,  the  son 
of  Bran,  one  of  the  Fifteen  Tribes  of  North  Wales. 

In  one  thousand  three  hundred,^  I  am  told, — was  bom, 

Like  a  whelp,  under  bushes, 
A  man  of  thy  parentage !  (and  sad  it  is  to  name  thee;) 

Thou  son  of  Gwilym  Gam,  of  canine  paces. 
Composed  by  Rhys  Meigen,  in  the  hall  of  leuan,  the  son  of 
Lleision,  of  Baglan.     (At  a  Bardic  congress  held  at 
Michaelston  Avan,  says  another  book.   lolo  Morffanwg.) 

A  MEMOIR  OF  DAVYDD  AB  GWILYM. 

Gwilym  Gam,  of  Llanbadarn  Fawr,  in  Ceredigion,  the  son  of 
Davydd,  the  son  of  Howel,  and  Ardudfyl,  the  daughter  of  Ghnlym 
Vychan,  of  Cryngae,  in  Emlyn,  were  the  parents  of  Davydd  ab 

1  After  the  legal  immunities  of  the  bar^s  had  ceased,  at  the  death  of  their 
last  prince,  it  was  usual  with  them,  when  they  held  local  meetings,  to  appoint 
one  from  among  them  as  '*  Cyff  Cler,"  or  common  butt  of  poetical  satin 
and  accusation  ;  and  as  such  person  had  to  reply,  with  but  little  study,  to 
all  assailants,  the  most  gifted  of  the  company  was  generally  named  to  the  mi- 
gracious  office.  I  find,  from  some  old  '*  triads  of  song,''  and  other  documents, 
in  my  possession,  that,  in  the  lampoons  indiscriminately  hurled  at  the  Cyff  Ger, 
every  sort  of  annoyance  was  tolerated,  except  reflections  founded  on  trvak. 

At  a  meeting  of  this  description  held,  according  to  the  above  account,  at 
Baglan,  under  the  patronage  of  leuan  ab  Lleision  ; — ^but  according  to  another, 
at  the  hall  of  Llywelyn  of  Emlyn,  (see  Davydd  ab  Gwilym's  printed  poem^ 
p.  462)  Davydd  ab  Gwilym  was  Cyff  Cler ;  and  Rhys  Meigen,  (probably  of 
Llanveigen,  Monm.)  who  appears  to  have  been  his  hateful  enemy,  aaaaOad 
him  most  mercilessly:  charging  him  with  being  the  ofivpring  of  incest,  &e. 
The  englyn  presented  in  the  text  is  a  part  of  that  charge,  whereof  the  abore 
is  merely  a  literal  translation :  but  Davydd  recited  a  poem  of  such  bitter 
retaliation,  that  Rhys  Meigen  fell  a  lifeless  corpse  on  the  floor,  (p.  462.)  The 
date,  however,  of  Davydd's  birth  (1300)  as  it  could  not  constitute  a  point  of 
satire,  is,  we  may  fairly  suppose,  given  correctly  by  Rhys  Meigen.  In  ooe 
of  his  poems,  (p.  99)  he  says,  "  On  next  Friday,  which  will  be  the  Fridsj 


SHORT   NOTICES.  485 

Gwilym,  the  poet.  But,  through  some  old  feud,  hatred  existed 
between  the  two  families ;  hence  neither  side  would  consent  to  the 
marriage  of  Gwilym  Gam  and  Ardudfyl.  The  young  couple,  how- 
ever,  were  much  attached  to  each  other,  and,  at  last,  Ardudfyl  be- 
came pregnant  by  Gwilym  Gam;  which  being  discovered  by  her 
father  and  brother,  they  not  only  turned  her  out  at  midnight  in 
winter,  and  during  bitterly  severe  weather,  but  sent  strict  injunc- 
tions to  all  her  relations,  that  none  of  them  should  admit  her  un- 
der the  shelter  of  their  roofs.  Being  thus  an  outcast,  she  wandered 
about,  she  cared  not  whither;  but  when  Gwilym  heard  of  her 
destitution,  he  went  after  her,  traced  her  out,  and  took  her  with 
him  to  Glamorgan,  intending  to  proceed  to  the  house  of  Ivor  Hael, 
[The  Liberal]  his  maternal  uncle;  but  others  assert  that  he  and  Ivor 
were  brothers-in-law.  While  pursuing  their  journey  at  midnight, 
and  during  a  severe  tempest  of  wind  and  hail,  Davydd  ab  Gwilym, 
their  son,  was  bom,  a  seven  months'  child,  under  a  hedge.  Anxious 
to  go  on,  they,  next  day,  reached  LlandafT,  where  they  were  mar- 
ried; but  Ardudfyl  died  on  that  very  day,  and  was  buried  there; 
the  infant  son  having  been  christened  on  his  mother's  coffin.  The 
following  are  the  stanzas  which  Gwilym  Gram  composed  to  Ardud- 
fyl, over  her  grave. 

In  memory  of  Ardudfyl ; — whom  I  yet 
Shall  joiri,  fair,  gentle  form  !  on  Olivet, 
God's  Holy  Hill ! — an  angel  to  ray  eyes. 
In  choir  of  Saints,  above  the  starry  skies. 

Deprived  of  her,  oh  !  what  a  waste  of  tears, 
To  my  lorn  soul,  this  dreary  world  appears. — 
Placed  on  its  brink,  to  her  long  home  I  shed 
My  gush  of  anguish  for  Ardudfyl  dead  ! 

Having  seen  earth  thrown  over  the  face  of  Ardudfyl,  Gwilym 
went  on  with  his  infant  son  to  Gwern-y-Cleppa,  in  Maesaleg, 
where  he  lived  in  high  welcome  and  protection  ;  but  Gwilym  Gam, 
at  the  death  of  his  father,  Davydd,  the  son  of  leuan,  returned  to 
Ceredigion,  and  to  his  paternal  estate  and  residence  in  the  parish 


of  Midsummer,  I  shall  be  21  years  of  age."  He  then,  possihly,  alludes  to  his 
nativity,  stating,  that  "  On  the  day  that  Adam  was  born,  existence  com- 
menced at  Llandaff,  under  a  hedge  J" 


486  SHORT   NOTICES. 

of  Llanbadam  Vawr,  the  house  being  called  Bro  Ginin,  where  he 
and  his  son,  Davydd,  resided.     Gwilym  Qsm  married  again,  bnt 
his  son,  Davydd,  hated  his  step-mother;   therefore  he  returned 
to   his   uncle,   Ivor  Hael,  in  Glamorgan,   with  whom   he   long 
resided,  being  much  beloved  and  respected.     His  maternal  uncle, 
Llywelyû,  the  son  of  Gwilym  Vychan,  of  Cryngae  and  Dôl-Gocb, 
in  Emlyn,  perceiving  that  he  was  imbued  with  transcendent  poetic 
genius,  took  Davydd  to  reside  with  him  at  Cryngae  and  Dôl-Gt>ch, 
in  both  of  which  places,  one  or  the  other  of  them  lived ;  and  he 
tutored  his  young  relation  in  the  metres  of  vocal  song,  through 
which  means  Davydd  became  a  poet  of  exalted  fame.     But  some 
of  the  Saxon  banditti  of  Pembrokeshire  made  an  onset  on  D61- 
Goch,   and  killed   Llywelyn,*  the  son  of  Gwilym;    whereupon 
Davydd  returned  again  to  Maesaleg,   to   Ivor   Hael,  where  he 
mostly  resided,  imtil  that  chieftain,  and  Nest,  his  wife,  died  of 
the  glandular  plague,'  at  the  Bishop  of  LlandafiTs  palace,  at  Llan- 
gadwaladr,  in  Gwent  Is  Coed,  where  they  were  on  a  visit,  and 
where  the  Bishop  died  also,^  at  the  same  time ;  but  Davydd  ab 
Gwilym,  escaping  through  the  pestilence,  went  back  to  Maesaleg. 
However,  as  neither  Ivor  nor  Nest  was  any  more  to  be  seen  there, 
Davydd  went  on  his  travels,  to  wander  over  Wales ;  extending 
his  rambles  to  Mona  and  Caernarvon,  and  revisiting  Glamorgan  at 
times. — ^But,  at  the  death  of  his  father,  he  went  to  his  patrimony 
at  Bro  Ginin,  in  Llanbadam  Vawr.     By  this  time  he  was  some- 
what advanced  in  years.   Before  he  had  resided  there  for  any  great 
length  of  time,  he  retired  to  the  Abbey  of  Tal-y-Llychau,  where 
he  experienced  high  welcome  and  respect ;  and  where  he  died,*  an 

*  See  Davydd  ab  Gwilym's  poems,  p.  459. 

^  Davydd  composed  an  elegy  to  the  memory  of  Ivor  Hael  and  Nest  his 
wife,  (page  23)  hence  we  may  conclude  that  both  died  at  the  same  time,  for 
had  it  been  otherwise,  their  always  grateful  bard  would,  doubtless,  have  sung 
a  separate  requiem  to  each  of  them.  Although  in  those  days  it  was  precarious 
to  announce  the  plague,  unless  officially  verified  as  such,  still  oUiqiie  allu- 
sions to  that  terrible  scourge  occur  in  this  elegy,  where  the  expresaioDf 
"trymhaint,"  (heavy  pestilence)  and  "  godechaint,"  (lurking  pertiloice) 
appear.  The  bard  also  commences  this  elegy  with  an  allusion  to  his  ^'hen- 
aint,"  (old  age.) 

8  Bishop  Godwin,  and,  from  him,  Brown  Willis,  (History  of  the  Cathedral 
Church  of  Llandaif,  state  that  John  Pascall,  Bishop  of  Uandaff,  was  sup- 
posed to  have  died  of  tlie  plague  in  1360. 

*  According  to  general  opinion,  Davydd  ab  Gwilym  was  buried  at  the 
Abbey  of  Strata  Florida ;  a  belief  that,  perhaps,  originated  in  the  well  in- 


SHORT   NOTICES.  487 

old  and  far-famed  poet;   and  was  buried  daring  the  Ohristmas 
holidays,  in  the  fortieth  year  of  the  reign  of  King  Edward  III.^ 

Davydd  ab  Gwilym  much  improved  the  metre  called  Cywydd, 
in  which  kind  of  verse  he  composed  amatory,  and  other  poems  to 
females,  in  a  manner  far  superior  to  any  that  had  ever  preceded  him : 
and  thus  ends  the  information  relating  to  Davydd  ab  Gwilym. 

IvoB  Hael  and  Nest  his  wife  died,  says  an  ancient  genealo- 
gical roll,  at  the  house  of  the  Bishop  of  Llandaff,  at  Llangad- 
waladr,  now  called  Bishopston,  and  Trev-Escob,  in  Gwent.  The 
Bishop'^s  name  was  John  Pascall,  who  also  died  there  at  the  same 
time,  that  is, — in  the  year  1361,  in  the  34th  of  King  Edward 
III.'^s  coronation.  lolo  Morganwff. 

Davydd  ab  Gwilym  spent  some  portion  of  his  latter  years  at 
the  Abbey  of  Tal-y-Llychau,  where  he  died,  and  was  buried,  in 
the  time  of  King  Edward  III.  says  Thomas  Jones,  of  Tregaron's 
Book  of  Pedigrees.   Edward  III.  died  in  1 377.     John  Bradford} 

The  cause  of  Davydd  ab  Gwilym's  attachment  to  Morvydd 
was, — that  he  rescued  her  from  rovers,  who  desired  to  violate  her. 

Morgan  Llywdyn^  of  Neath? 

Therb  is  at  Maes-y-crugiau,  on  Tivy-side,  a  grammar  composed 
by  Davydd  ab  Gwilym.  (Says  Ben  Simon,  from  lago  ab  Dewi's 
Book.)  Book  of  Brechta, 

tended  and  successful  fiction  mentioned  in  the  succeeding  article,  ^*  Gruffydd 
Grog."  There  are  four  elegies  to  his  memory  in  Owen's  very  interesting 
memoir  perfixed  to  his  published  poems ;  two  of  them  by  his  candid  and 
highly  gifted  rival  in  love  and  song,  Grufiydd  Grug,  of  Mona  ;  one  by  Ma- 
dog  Benfras ;  and  the  other  by  his  genius-fraught  Venedotian  friend,  Iolo 
GocH.  These  elegies  are  quite  silent  with  regard  to  his  place  of  sepulture, 
except  the  first  of  Grufiydd  Grog's  compositions,  which,  probably,  was  writ- 
ten under  a  full  impression  of  the  troth  of  the  fiction  already  alluded  to.  The 
second  elegy  of  this  generous  bard  appears  to  have  been  composed  after 
Davydd's  terrestrial  joys  and  sorrows  had  actually  ceased,  and  no  allusion  to 
Strata  Florida  occurs  in  it.  Madog  Benfras  and  Iolo  Goch,  who,  as  just 
stated,  are  silent  with  regard  to  his  burying  place,  still  express  their  regret 
that  he  did  not  live  to  an  age  of  longer  extent. 

1  This  date  is  erroneously  given. 

^  A  good  poet  and  antiquary,  who  died  in  1785. 

3  Au  industrious  antiquary,  who  died  about  1770. 


488  SHORT  NOTICES. 


ELEGIAC  STANZAS  ON  THE  DEATH  OF  DAVYDD 
AB  GWILYM.i 

1.  Davydd,  whose  talents  refulgent  pour'd  numbers  in  harmony's 

torrent, 
Friendless  now  lies  in  his  grave ; — and  what  grief  rends  our 
bosoms  fraternal. 

2.  Weep  we  in  dolour, — ^thy  architect,  Song!   has  for  ever  de- 

parted. 
Genius  Î  thy  fountain  regenerate  gushes  melodious  no  longer. 

3.  Prophet  Taliesin  foretelling  of  Davydd,  illustrious  author ! 
Said, — "In  Broginin  a  bard  shall  be  bom  of  mellifluous  num- 
bers.''» 


1  This  translation  imitates  the  manner  of  the  first  part  of  each  of  the  Welsh 
stanzas ;  in  which,  however,  the  Terse  is  divided  into  two  lines. 

*  Owen,  in  his  memoir,  quotes  this  stanza^  which  he  g:ive8  as  the  composi- 
tion of  some  anoDymous  hard  ;  hut  he  omits  the  others,  which  mention  the 
year  of  the  bard's  death  and  his  place  of  sepulture.  He  prohahly  quoted 
from  his  memory,  which  may  not,  then,  have  retained  any  more  ot  the 
elegy.  There  are  two  englynion  in  the  memoir,  which  are  given  as  our  bard's 
epitaph,  hy  an  unknown  writer  ;  hut  which  tend,  from  the  expression  **£os 
Deivi,"  to  support  the  belief  that  he  was  huried  at  Strata  Florida ;  but  the 
most  important  stanza  of  the  two,  in  that  respect,  is  attributed,  and,  I  believe, 
correctly,  to  lolo  Goch,  in  a  collection  in  my  possession,  where  it  appears  as 
follows : — 

"  Englyn  ar  Feddfaen  D.  G.  ym  mynwent  Tal-y-Llycheu 

Hardd  Lasnen  Ywen  Llwyn  Eos  Ihfi 

Mae  Dafydd  i'th  agos. 
Mae'n  y  pridd  y  gerdd  ddiddos. 
Diddawn  yw  pob  dydd  a  nos." 

lolo  Goch  ai  cant. 

The  expression,  *'  Eos  Dyfi,"  in  the  above  englyn,  takes  its  rise  from  the 
locality  of  his  paternal  estate  in  the  parish  of  Llanbadam  Yawr,  not  fiur  from 
the  river  Dyvi.  Hew  as  also  called  Eos  Dyved,  "an  appellation,"  says  the 
author  of  the  memoir,  (note,  p.  17.)  ''by  which  our  bard  was  often  distin- 
guished by  his  countrymen ;"  and  by  which  he  was  also  designated  in  the 
elegy  by  Madog  Benvras,  who  was  the  bard  that  married  him,  in  his  youth- 
ful days,  to  Morvydd,  in  a  grove,  according  to  what  was  then  generally 


SHORT   NOTICES.  489 

4.  Age  of  our  Saviour,  one  thousand  three  hundred,  with  sixty 

and  eight  years. 
When  died  Cambria's  bard,  the  bright  offspring  of  Gwilym  the 
worthy. 

5.  Under  his  tombstone,  there  lies  he,  unconscious,  at  old  Tal-y- 

Llychau : 
Verdant  yon  vale  that  embosoms  the  fane  and  the  grave  of  the 
tuneful. 

Composed  by  Hopkin,  ap  Thomas,  ap  Einion,  of  Ynys 
Dawy,  1380.^ 

GRUFFYDD  GRUG. 

Obufftdd  Grug,  of  Penmynydd — Mon,  was  a  learned  poet,  of 
extensive  genius.  He  carried  on  a  poetical  contention  with 
Davydd  ab  Gwilym,  for  a  young  woman  in  Mona,  to  whom  Gru- 
ffydd  was  attached ;  on  which  account,  considerable  animosity  exist- 
ed between  them.  The  monks  of  G  wynlliw's  Priory*  despatched  a 
messenger  to  Mona,  with  a  letter  stating  that  Davydd  ab  Gvnlym 
was  dead ;  whereupon,  Gruffydd  wrote  an  elegy  to  his  memory. 
But  white  yet  on  his  way  to  Mona,  the  messenger  sent 
another  back  to  Davydd,  with  word  that  Gruffydd  was  dead,  and, 
according  to  his  wish,  to  be  buried  at  Strata  Florida,  where  Gru- 
ffj^dd'^s  information  stated  that  Davydd  ab  Gwilym  was  also  to  be 


deemed  prescriptive  usage.  Under  all  these  circumstances,  we  are  ftdly  justi- 
fied in  placing  his  birth  in  1«300,  and  his  death  in  ISGS  ;  so  that  he  was  68 
years  old  when  he  died  ;  a  period  of  no  remarkable  duration  ;  and  we  infer 
so,  firom  Madog  Benvras's  lament,  in  his  elegy, — "Och!  na  fu  hir,  gohir, 
ged,  oes  Dafydd,  Eos  Dyfed!"  **Alas!  that  the  life  of  Davydd,  the  Dime- 
tian  Nightingale,  was  not  a  long  one,  for  our  extended  advantage." 

lolo  Goch  makes  a  similar  allusion,  at  the  commencement  of  his  elegy. 

From  having  led  a  gay  unsettled  life,  our  bard,  felt,  perhaps,  prematurely, 
the  effects  of  old  age,  which  he  occasionally  deplores. 

1  This  ^'Hopcyn  ab  Thomas  ab  Einion,"  appears  to  have  been  a  powerful 
chieftain  of  Ynys  Dawy,  a  superior  bard,  and  a  great  patron  of  genius.  See 
Myy.  Arch.  I.  pp.  482,  492,  &c.  &c. 

lolo  Morganwg  fully  concurred  in  the  statements  of  the  preceeding  notices 
and  elegy  ;  and,  after  a  long  and  careful  research.  I  am  similarly  persuaded. 

*  Gwynlliw's  Priory,  near  Newport,  Monmouthshire. 


490  SHORT   NOTICES. 

buried ;  and  the  same  day  was  named  for  both  funerals.  Davydd 
proceeded  there  immediately,  with  an  affectionate  elegy  to  Gru- 
ffydd,  where,  however,  he  met  that  bard,  with  a  kind  elegy  to  him: 
but  great  was  their  astonishment  and  joy  at  meeting  each  other 
alive;  and,  thenceforth,  to  their  death,  peace  and  friendship 
existed  between  them. 

THE  LINEAGE  OF  MARCHWIAIL,  IN  MAELOR.» 

1.  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Gruffydd,  of  Marchwiail. 

2.  Madog,  his  brother,  the  son  of  Gruffydd,  called  Mado^ 
Benvras. 

3.  Llywelyn,  the  son  of  Gruffydd,  called  Llywelyn  Llogell  Rhi- 
son,  who  composed  Englynion  Marchwiail,  in  the  ancient  style  of 
poetry,  when  the  great  Eisteddvod  was  held  there,  in  the  time  of 
King  Edward  III.  under  the  patronage  of  Lord  Mortimer. 

The  three  brothers  were  poets,  and  the  sons  of  Gruffydd,  the 
son  of  lorwerth,  the  son  of  Einion  Goch,  the  son  of  leuav,  the  son 
of  Llywarch,  the  son  of  Nynniaw,  the  son  of  Oynwrig,  the  son  of 
Rhiwallon,  the  son  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Tudur  Trevor,  Earl 
of  Hereford.^ 

ANOTHER  PEDIGREE  OF  MARCHWDU[L.8 

Madog  Benvras,  the  poet,  the  son  of  Gruffydd,  the  son  of  lor- 
werth, the  son  of  Einion  Goch,  of  Sonlli,  in  Maelor,*  the  son  of 
leuav,  the  son  of  Llywarch,  the  son  of  Nynniaw,  the  son  of  Cyn- 
wrig,  the  son  of  Rhiwallon,  the  son  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Tudur 
Trevor,  Earl  of  Hereford. 

Madog  Benvras,  was  one  of  the  three  brothers  of  Marchwiail,  in 
Maelor :  and  the  three  were  poets.     The  other  two  were — 

Ednyved,  the  son  of  Gruffydd,  of  Marchwiail,  who  was  the  pre- 
ceptor of  lolo  Goch,  the  poet ; — and  Llewelyn,  the  son  of  Gru- 
ffydd, called  Llogell  Rhison,  and  Llewelyn  Llogell;  and  it  was 
he  who  wrote  Englynion  Marchwiail,  in  the  ancient  style  of 
poetry.     These  three  brothers  had  been  the  disciples  of  LlewelyH) 

>  Near  Wrexham,  Denbîglishîre. 

s  Havod  MS. 

3  Mr  Theopliilus  Jones's  MS. 

*  A  commot  in  Denbighshire,  under  its  ancient  divisions. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  491 

:he  son  of  Gwilym  Emlyn,  when  he  was  in  concealment,  at  the 
court  of  Ivor  Hael,  at  Maesaleg;  Davydd  ab  Gwilym  being  there 
also,  with  them. 

It  ¥ra8  in  the  time  of  these  three  brothers,  that  the  great  Eistedd- 
vod  took  place  at  Marchwiail ;  to  which,  poets  from  Ghirynedd, 
Powys,  South  Wales,  and  Glamorgan,  assembled,  for  the  purpose  of 
renovating  in  memory  the  ancient  art  and  secrets  of  vocal  song, 
that  had  become  almost  lost  in  Gwynedd  and  Powys;  there  being 
but  few  who  knew  the  art  and  knowledge  of  vocal  song,  except  in 
Glamorgan,  and  Anglesey,  and  Ceredigion ;  in  consequence  of  hav- 
ing lost  the  princes,  who  patronized  the  poets.  The  congresses  of 
Ivor  Hael,  at  Maesaleg, — of  Llywelyn,  the  son  of  Gwilym,  at 
Dôl  Goch,  in  Emlyn, — and  of  Marchwiail,  were  called  the  three 
regenerating  bardic  conventions. 


THE  EISTEDDVOD  OF  GWERN-Y.CLEPPA,i  AND  THE 
BROTHERS  OF  MARCHWIAIL. 

MEMOIRS  OF  BARDS  AND  POETS.» 

In  the  time  of  King  Edward  III.  the  Eisteddvod  of  Gwem-y- 
Gleppa  took  place,  under  the  patronage  and  gifts  of  Ivor  Hael, 
and  to  it  CAme  the  three  brothers  of  Marchwiail  in  Maelor,  in 
Powys,  and  Llywelyn  ab  Gwilym,  of  Dol  Goch,  in  Ceredigion. 
The  three  brothers  of  Marchwiail,  and,  with  them,  Davydd  ab 
Gwilym,  had  been  scholars  in  bardism  to  Llywelyn,  the  son  of 
Gwilym,  at  Gwom-y-Cleppa, — that  is,  the  Court  of  Ivor  Hael. 
It  was  at  this  Eisteddvod  that  the  Cywydd  metre  was  ad- 
mitted to  chair-privileges,  to  which  it  had  not  previously  been 
entitled;  and  when  cf)nipetition  for  the  chair  ensued,  Davydd 
ab  Gwilym  won  it,  through  force  of  genius  and  original  purity  of 
Welsh  diction.  From  thenceforth  the  Cywydd  became  included 
among  the  chair  metres;  and  Davydd  ab  Gwilym  was  invested 
with  the  chair  decoration,  with  the  designation  of  Davydd  of  Gla- 
morgan; but  in  Gwynedd  ho  was  called  the  Bard  of  Ivor 
Hael.  From  that  period  to  the  present  time,  the  Cvwydd  has 
been  deemed  the  most  interesting  «and  best  of  all  the  metres. 

•  Some  vestiges  of  this  mansion  still  remain  at  a  short  distance  from  Bas- 
MUeg,  Monmoutlishire. 

«  From  notices  of  Bards  and  Poets,  extracted  from  the  MSS.  of  Edward 
Davydd,  of  Margam,— Anthony  Powel,  \'c. 

3  R 


492  SHORT   NOTICES. 

After  that,  an  Eisteddvod  was  held  at  Dol  Goch,  in  Em- 
lyn,  under  the  patronage  of  Llywelyn,  the  son  of  Gwilym ;  which 
was  attended  by  John  of  Kent,^  and  Rhys  Goch,  of  Snowdon,  in 
Gwynedd ;  between  whom  contention  arose.  John  of  Kent  was 
pronounced  superior,  here,  in  sacred,  and  Bhys  Goch  in  encomias- 
tic poetry ;  however,  superiority,  and  the  chair  were  adjudged  to 
sacred  poetry;  but  John  of  Kent  would  not  consent  to  be  invested 
with  the  decoration  of  the  chair  of  Ceredigion  and  Dyved ;  choos- 
ing to  attribute  to  God  the  victory;  whence  some  said,  that 
God,  himself,  won  that  chair.  Llywelyn  ab  Gwilym,  again,  an- 
nounced, that  competition  in  amatory  song  would  take  place,  for 
the  chair  of  Ceredigion,  in  which  Davydd  ab  Gwilym  was  declared 
successful,  and  invested  with  the  birchen  wreath^,  the  ornamental 
meed  given  for  lays  to  ladies.  Upon  this  occasion,  Llywelyn,  the 
son  of  Grufiydd,  one  of  the  three  brothers  of  Marchwiail,  sang  the 
englynion  of — "Marchwiail  bedw  briglas,'*'*  in  the  ancient  style  of 
poetry ;  after  which,  the  three  brothers  announced,  under  a  year 
and  a  day'*s  notice,  that  an  Eisteddvod  would  be  held  at  Maelor, 
in  Powys,  under  the  patronage  of  Earl  Mortimer,  and  the  crown 
of  King  Edward  III.  At  this  Eisteddvod  poetical  composition  for 
chairs  took  place ;  in  which,  Edny ved,  the  son  of  Grufiydd,  won 
the  chair  for  his  Cywydd  Gwr,  and  shorter  stanzas  of  "Eiry 
Mynydd;**'  and  Madoc,  the  third  brother,  won  the  chair  and  a 
birchen  wreath,  for  his  poem  to  a  lady ;  whereupon  Davydd  ab 
Gwilym  sang  kindly  of  him  for  that  poem.  At  this  Eisteddvod, 
lolo  Goch  was  adorned  with  a  chair  ornament,  for  the  sciences  he 
learned  of  Edny  ved,  the  son  of  Grufiydd,  with  regard  to  the  art  of 
vocal  song,  and  its  relative  knowledge.  Vocal  song  and  allitera- 
tion were  much  improved  at  these  three  bardic  congresses. 

CADOGAN  OF  THE  BATTLE  AXE. 

Cadogan  of  the  Battle- Axe,  lived  at  Glyn  Rhontha,'  during  the 
time  of  Owen  Glyndwr^s  war,  and  was  one  of  that  chieflain'^s  cap- 
tains over  the  men  of  that  vale.     When  Cadogan  went  to  battle, 

1  Kentchurch,  in  Herefordshire. 

5  Davydd  ab  Gwilym  has  an  Ode  to  the  "Cae  Bedw,"  the  bir^Aen  wrmAf 
which  Morvydd  the  daughter  of  Ivor  Hael  platted  for  him.  The  birch  groft, 
and  birch  arbour,  are  amongst  his  most  favourite  imagery. 

3  In  the  mountainous  part  of  Glamorgan,  nearly  west  of  Aberdare. 


SHORT   NOTICES.  493 

he  used  to  perambulate  Glyn  Bhontha,  whetting  his  battle-axe,  as 
he  proceeded  along ;  from  which  circumstance,  Owen  would  call 
out  to  Gadogan, — "Cadogan!  whet  thy  battle-axe;**'  and  the  mo- 
ment that  Gadogan  was  heard  to  do  so,  all  living  persons,  both 
male  and  female,  in  Gljn  Bhontha,  collected  about  him,  in 
military  order :  and  from  that  day  to  this,  the  battle-shout  of  the 
men  of  Glyn  Bhontha  has  been,  ^'Gadogan!  whet  thy  battle-axe,^' 
and,  at  the  word,  they  all  assemble  as  an  army. 


OWEN  GLYNDWR. 

In  the  year  of  Ghrist,  1400,  Owen  Glyndwr  came  to  Glamor- 
gan, and  won  the  castle  of  Gardiff,  and  many  more :  he  also  demo- 
lished the  castles  of  Penlline,  Landough,  Flemingston,  Dunraven 
of  the  Butlers,  Tal-y-van,  Lanblethian,  Llanquian,  Malefant, 
and  that  of  Penmark;  and  burnt  many  of  the  villa<;es  and  churches 
about  them.  He  burnt,  also,  the  villages  of  Llanfrynach  and 
Aberthin ;  and  many  houses  at  Lantwit  Major,  and  other  places, 
the  men  of  which  would  not  join  him.  But  many  of  the  country 
people  collected  round  him  with  one  accord ;  and  they  demolished 
castles  and  houses  innumerable;  laid  waste,  and  quite  fenceless,  the 
lands,  and  gave  them,  in  common,  to  all.  They  took  away  from 
the  powerful  and  rich,  and  distributed  the  plunder  among  the 
weak  and  poor.  Many  of  the  higher  order  and  chieftains  were 
obliged  to  flee  to  England,  under  the  protection  and  support  of  the 
king.  A  bloody  battle  took  place  on  Bryn-Owen^  mountain,  near 
Gowbridge,  between  Owen  and  his  men,  and  the  king's  men,  but 
the  latter  were  put  to  flight  after  eighteen  hours'  hard  fighting ; 
during  which  the  blood  was  up  to  the  horses'  fetterlocks,  at  Pant- 
y-wennol,  that  separates  both  ends  of  the  mountain/'' 

SIR  LAWRENCE  BERKR0LLES3  AND  OWEN  GLYNDWR. 

When  Owen  Glyndwr  travelled  about  the  country,  in  the  guise 
of  a  strange  gentleman,  attended  by  one  faithful  friend,  in  the 
habit  of  a  servant,  and  both  being  unarmed,  (for  no  armed  person 

1  Now  called  Stalling-down. 

*  From  the  Rev.  Thomas  Bassctt,  of  Lan-y-lai's  MS. 

'  Descended  from  one  of  Fitzhamon's  twelve  knights,  to  whom  the  caatle 
of  East  Orchard,  St.  Athaus,  wa»  given  in  the  ^'eneral  spoliation. 


494  SHORT   NOTICES. 

was  secure  at  that  time)  and  going  about  to  ascertain  the  disposi- 
tion of  the  inhabitants,  he  went  to  the  castle  of  Sir  Lawrence 
Berkrolles,  and  requested,  in  French,  a  nighf  s  reception  for  him- 
self and  servant,  which  was  readily  granted,  attended  by  a  hearty 
welcome ;  the  best  of  every  thing  in  the  castle  being  laid  before 
him ;  and  so  pleased  was  Sir  Lawrence  with  his  friend,  that  he 
earnestly  pressed  him  to  remain  with  him  for  some  days;  observing, 
that  he  soon  expected  to  see  Owen  Glyndwr  there;  for  that  he  had 
despatched  all  his  tenants  and  servants,  with  many  other  confi- 
dential persons,  under  an  oath  of  fidelity,  through  all  parts  of 
the  country  to  seize  Owen,  who,  he  was  told,  had  come  to  that 
district  of  the  principality ;  and  that  he  was,  himself,  sworn  to 
give  honourable  rewards  to  his  men  who  should  bring  Owen  Glyn- 
dwr there,  either  alive  or  dead,  "It  would  be  very  well,  indeed,^ 
said  Owen,  "to  secure  that  man,  were  any  persons  able  to  do  so.'*' 
Having  remained  at  Sir  Lawrence'^s  castle  for  four  days  and  three 
nights,  Owen  thought  it  would  be  wise  to  go  his  way ;  therefore, 
giving  his  hand  to  Sir  Lawrence,  he  addressed  him  thus:  "Owen 
Glyndwr,  as  a  sincere  friend,  having  neither  hatred,  treachery^ 
nor  deception  in  his  heart,  gives  his  hand  to  Sir  Lawrence  Berk- 
rolles, and  thanks  him  for  the  kindness  and  gentlemanly  reception 
which  he  and  his  friend  (in  the  guise  of  a  servant)  experienced 
from  him  at  his  castle ;  and  desires  to  assure  him,  on  oath,  hand 
in  hand,  and  hand  on  heart,  that  it  will  never  enter  his  mind  to 
avenge  the  intentions  of  Sir  Lawrence  towards  him ;  and  that  he 
will  not,  as  far  as  he  may,  allow  such  desires  to  exist  in  his  own 
knowledge  and  memory,  nor  in  the  minds  of  any  of  his  relations 
and  adherents r**^  and  then  he  and  his  servant  departed;  but  Sir 
Lawrence  Berkrolles  was  struck  dumb  with  astonishment,  and 
never  afterwards  recovered  his  speech;  no  word,  thenceforth, 
having  ever  escaped  his  hps.^ 

1  From  the  MS.  of  Mr.  Lleision,  of  Pnsk ;  but  then  in  the  possession  of 
£van  of  the  Farm,  Llanblethian. 

Thus  far  the  Translations  and  Notes  are  by  the  original  Editor,  Tkiasa 
AB  loLO ;  whose  labours  were  here  interrupted  by  a  severe  attack  of  fllness^ 
which  delayed  the  progress  of  the  work  for  some  years,  and  ultimately  ter 
mlnated  in  his  death ;  which  took  place  on  the  16th  of  February,  1847. 


ECCLESIASTICAL  ANTIQUITIES. 


GENEALOGIES  OF  THE   BRITISH  SAINTS.^ 

1.  Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  was  the  first  of 
the  Welsh  nation  who  was  converted  to  the  Christian  faith ;  and 
his  lineage  was  one  of  the  three  families  of  British  Saints. 

2.  Saint  Cyndav,  an  Israelite,  who  came  to  Britain  with  Bran 
the  Blessed,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 

3.  Saint  Hid,  an  Israelite,  came  to  Britain  with  Bran  the 
Blessed ;  and  his  church  is  Llanilid  in  Gwent. 

4.  Saint  Lucius,  descended  from  Bran  the  Blessed,  king  of  the 
Island  of  Britain ;  who  was  also  called  Lleuver^  the  son  of  Goel, 
the  son  of  Cyllin, — and  Lies,  the  son  of  Coel,  the  son  of  Cyllin. 
His  church  was  Llandaff;  being  the  first  that  he  erected;  and,  in 
fact,  it  was  the  first  that  was  ever  built  there.  Llanleirwg'  in 
Morganwgÿ  is  another  church  dedicated  to  him. 

5.  Saint  Dy  van,  who  came  to  Britain  in  the  time  of  Saint  Lu- 
cius, to  administer  baptism  to  the  Cymry ;  for,  previously,  no  one 
of  that  nation  had  ever  been  baptized.  His  church  is  Merthyr 
Dyvan,  in  Morganwg. 

6.  Saint  Fagan,  who  came  at  the  same  time  to  Britain ;  having 
been  deputed  by  Pope  Eleutherius,  at  the  request  of  Saint  Lucius, 
to  confer  baptism  on  the  nation  of  the  Cymry.  His  church  is 
Saint  Fagan'*8,  in  Gwent. 

7.  Saint  Medwy,  whoso  church  is  Llanvedwy,  in  Morganwg. 
He  lived  in  the  time  of  Saint  Lucius. 


*  From  the  Book  of  Thomas  Ilopkin  of  Coychurch,  which  waa  one  of  the 
MSS.  of  Thomas  ap  Evan  of  Trc-bryn,  in  the  same  parish ;  and  was  tran- 
scribed by  him  about  the  year  1G70.  The  author  of  the  <<  Welsh  Saints" 
states,  in  page  74  of  that  work,  respecting  this  MS.  **Aa  this  appears  to  be 
one  of  the  most  interesting  of  the  Welsh  Records,  its  publication,  accom- 
panied with  various  readings,  and  additions  from  the  MSS.  known  to  exist  in 
the  same  part  of  the  Principality,  is  a  desideratum,  which  it  is  hoped  will  not 
long  be  left  unsupplied."  The  reader  is  referred  to  the  "Welsh  Saints"  for 
several  other  particulars,  respecting  those  whose  names  are  recorded  in  this 
Catalogue. 

*  The  church  of  Ucurwg  or  Lucius,  now  called  St.  Mclon'ef,  near  Cardiff. 


496  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

8.  Saint  Elvan^  contemporary  with  Saint  Lucius,  the  son  of 
Goel,  the  son  of  Cyllin.     His  church  is  in  Morganwg. 

9.  Saint  Grallo,  contemporary  with  Saint  Lucius,  the  son  of 
Coel,  the  son  of  Cyllin.     His  church  is  in  Gwent. 

10.  Saint  tìwerydd,  the  son  of  Gadwn,  the  son  of  Cynan,  the 
son  of  Eudav,  descended  from  Bran  the  Blessed.  His  church  was 
Llanwerydd,  in  Gwent,  now  called  St.  Donafs. 

11.  Saint  Docheu,  who  came  to  this  Island  with  Saint  Fagan; 
others  say  that  it  was  with  Saint  Germanus,  the  son  of  Itidigius, 
he  came  here  first.  His  churches  are  the  two  Llandoughs^  in 
Gwent. 

12.  Saint  Gwynno,  of  Bran  the  Blessed'^s  lineage;  his  church, — 
Llanwynno,  in  Gwent. 

13.  Teilo,  the  son  of  Enllech,  the  son  of  Hydwn;  and  his 
churches  are  Llandaff,  Llandeilo-Vawr,  Llandeilo-Cresseni,  Llan- 
deilo-Verwallt,  Llandeilo-Abercowin,  Llandeilo-Bertholeu,  and 
Llandeilo-Glyn-Llychwr.^ 

14.  Saint  David,  the  son  of  Sandde,  the  son  of  Gedig,  the  son 
of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig;  whose  mother  was  Nonn« 
the  daughter  of  Gynyr  Hir,  of  Gaer  Gawch.  Many  churches  are 
dedicated  to  him  in  Wales. 

15.  Saint  Gattwg  [Gadocus,]  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of 
Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deymllwg.  His 
churches  are  at  Llancarvan,  where  he  had  an  illustrious  college  of 
saints  and  learned  men.  There  is  a  church  dedicated  to  him  at 
Glyn-Nedd,  another  in  the  Vale  of  Usk,  and  another  in  Ystrad 
Towy.  He  was  called  Gattwg  the  Wise,  from  his  superior  wisdom 
in  all  councils. 

16.  lestyn,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Erbin,  the  son  of  Gys- 
tennyn  Gorneu,  the  son  of  Gynvar,  the  son  of  Tudwal  Mynwawr, 
the  son  of  Gadan,  the  son  of  Gynan,  the  son  of  Eudav,  the  son  of 
Garadoc  [Garactacus,]  the  son  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 

17.  Gaw,  Lord  of  Cwm  Gawlwyd,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of 
Erbin,  ut  supra,  who  was  driven  from  his  possessions  by  the  Irish 
Picts.  The  following  are  the  names  of  his  sons,  who  were  saints 
in  the  college  of  Gattwg,  and  the  college  of  lUtyd  [Iltutus,]  at  Gaer- 


1  Ab  lolo  was  of  opinion,  from  the  appearance  of  the  writing,  that  this  latter 
church  was  added  by  lolo  Morganwg,  to  supply  an  apparent  deficiency. 
Many  other  churches,  dedicated  to  St.  Teilo,  are  enumerated  in  the  Liber 
Landavensis,  page  521. 


THE   BRITISH   SAINTS.  497 

Worgorn;  namely,  1.  Peirio,  2.  Gallgo,  3.  Maelog,  4.  Gildas  y 
Coed  Aur,  5.  Eagrad,  6.  Gaffo ;  others  of  his  sons  were  saints  in 
Gwynedd,  where  their  churches  exist  in  connexion  with  their  names. 

18.  Saint  Cain,  the  daughter  of  Caw,  of  Cwm  Cawlwyd,  whose 
church  is  in  Ystrad,  Dyved. 

19.  Aneurin  y  Coed  Aur,  the  son  of  Caw,  of  Cwm  Cawlwyd,  a 
saint  of  the  college  of  Cattwg. 

20.  Ceidiaw,  the  son  of  YnyrGwent;  and  Madron,  the  daughter 
of  Vortimer  the  Blessed,  was  his  mother.  He  was  a  saint  of 
the  college  of  Cattwg. 

21.  Elian  Ceimiad,  the  son  of  AUgu  Bedegawg,  the  son  of  Car- 
dydwg,  the  son  of  Cyngu,  the  son  of  Ysbwys,  the  son  of  Cadrod 
Calchfynydd.  His  mother  was  Tegvan,  the  daughter  of  Tewdric, 
king  of  Morganwg. 

22.  King  Elaeth,  the  son  of  Meyryg,  the  son  of  Idno,  by  Onen 
Grec,  the  daughter  of  Gwallog,  the  son  of  Lleenog. 

23.  Saint  Dyfnog,  the  son  of  Medrod,  the  son  of  Cawrdav, 
the  son  of  Caradoc  Vreichvras. 

24.  Saint  Mydan,  the  son  of  Pasgen,  the  son  of  Urien  Bheged, 
who  was  a  saint  of  the  college  of  Cattwg. 

25.  Gwrvyw,  the  son  of  Pasgen,  the  son  of  Urien,  whose  church 
is  in  Anglesey. 

26.  Eurgain,  the  daughter  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  the  son  of 
Caswallawn  Lawhir,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Cunedda 
Wledig. 

27.  Lloniaw  Lawhir,  of  Llanvirgain,  the  son  of  Emir  Llydaw. 

28.  Saint  Gwynnog,  the  son  of  Gildas  y  Coed  Aur,  the  son  of 
Caw  Cawlwyd. 

29.  Cenydd,  the  son  of  Gildas  y  Coed  Aur,  the  son  of  Caw  Caw- 
lwyd. His  churches  are  Senghenydd,*  in  Morganwg,  where  he 
established  a  college,  and  where  the  castle  of  Senghenydd  was  after- 
wards erected ;  and  Llangenydd,  in  Gower. 

30.  Noethan,  the  son  of  Gildas  y  Coed  Aur,  who  was  a  saint  of 
the  college  of  lUtyd. 

31.  Saint  Cawrdav,  the  son  of  Caradoc  Vreichvras,  of  Grallt- 
Cawrdav,  in  Gwent.     He  was  a  saint  of  Bangor  lUtyd. 

32.  Mcugant  Hon,  the  son  of  Saint  Cyndav,  an  Israelite. 

33  Saint  Gwrai,  of  Penystry  wed,  in  Arwystli,  who  was  a  saint 
of  Bangor  Deiniol,  in  Gwynedd. 

^  Caerphilly. 


498  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

34.  Gyngen,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deyrnllwg,  whose  church  is  in 
Shropshire. 

35.  Saint  Dwna,  the  son  of  Selyv,  the  son  of  Gynan  Crarwyn, 
the  son  of  Brochwel  Ysgithrog,  who  was  a  saint  of  Bangor 
Deiniol ;  and  whose  church  is  in  Anglesey. 

36.  Saint  Peblig,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig,  emperor  of  Borne. 
His  church  is  in  Gaemarvon ;  and  his  mother  was  Elen,  the  daugh- 
ter of  king  Eudav. 

37.  Avan  of  Buellt,  the  son  of  Garedig,  the  son  of  Cunedda 
Wledig.  "Hicjacet  Avanus  Episcopus"'  in  the  Ghurchyard  of 
Llanavan  Vawr,  in  Buallt  [the  hundred  of  Builth.] 

38.  Gwynllev,  the  son  of  Gyngar,  the  son  of  Garthwg,  the  son 
of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

39.  Gynvelyn,  the  son  of  Bleiddyd,  the  son  of  Meirchion,  the 
son  of  Tybiawn,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig;  who  was  a  saint  of 
Bangor  Deiniol. 

40.  King  Einion,  in  Lleyn,     ^    The  sons  of  Owen  Danwyn, 

41.  Seiriol,  in  Penmon,  L  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the 

42.  Meirion,  in  the  Gantred:     J    of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

43.  Deiniol,  the  son  of  Dunawd  Ffŷr,  the  son  of  Pabo  Post 
Prydain,  by  Dwywe,  the  daughter  of  Llynog.  His  church  is  at 
Bangor  Deiniol,  in  Gwynedd,  where  he  had  a  college  of  saints. 

44.  Saint  Asaph,  the  son  of  Sawyl  Benuchel,  the  son  of  Pabo 
Post  Prydain,  whose  church  is  St.  Asaph,  in  Gwynedd  below 
Gonwy. 

45.  Saint  Gyndeym,^  the  son  of  Owen,  the  son  of  Urien,  the  son 
of  Gorwst,  the  son  of  Gwaith  Hengaer.  His  mother  was  Aur- 
anwy,  the  daughter  of  Glydno  Eiddyn. 

46.  Gadell,  the  son  of  Urien  Bion,  the  son  of  Llywarch  Hen, 
the  son  of  Elidr  Lydanwyn. 

47.  Lleuddad,  the  son  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael,  the  son 
of  Senyllt,  the  son  of  Gedig,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen,  the  son  of 
Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig,  by  Athevai,  the  daughter  of 
Llawdden,  of  the  Isle  of  Eiddin,  in  the  North. 

48.  Baglan,  the  son  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael,  ui  m- 
pra.  His  church  is  Llanvaglan,  in  Morganwg;  and  there  is  ano- 
ther dedicated  to  him  in  Gwynedd.' 

1  St.  Kentigem,  the  founder  of  the  bishoprics  of  St.  Asaph  and  GUugow. 
Other  authorities  state  that  his  mother  was  D^^ynwen,  daughter  of  Llewddyn 
Llueddog,  of  Dinas  Eiddin,  or  Edinburgh. 

*  Llanfaglan,  Caernarvonshire ;  and  llaglan,  near  Neath,  Glamofganshire. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  499 

49.  Eleri,  the  son  of  Dingad,  ut  tupra^  in  Pennant;  he  was  a 
saint  of  DeinioPs  college. 

50.  Tegwy,  the  son  of  Dingad,  ut  supra,  whose  church  is  in 
Ceredigion. 

51.  Tyvriog,  the  son  of  Dingad,  ut  iupra,  whose  church  is  in 
Ceredigion. 

52.  Saint  Cadvan,  the  son  of  Eneas  Ledewic,  of  Llydaw ;  his 
mother  being  Gwen  Teirbron,  the  daughter  of  Emyr  Llydaw.  He 
came  to  this  Island  in  the  time  of  Vortigem^  with  St.  G^rmanus 
from  Graul,  his  native  country,  to  renovate  Christianity  in  this 
Island. 

53.  lUtyd  the  Knight,  the  son  of  Biccanus,  of  Armorica,  whose 
church  is  Bangor  lUtyd,  in  GKirent,  where  he  is  a  saint,  and  where 
Theodosius'^s  chief  college,  in  Caerworgom,  was  established ;  and 
which  had  been  demolished  by  the  pagans. 

54.  Henwyn,  the  son  of  Gwrd)av  Hen,  of  Armorica.  He  was 
confessor  to  Cadvan  and  his  saints  in  the  Isle  of  Bardsey. 

55.  Padam,  the  son  of  Pedredin,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  who 
came  to  this  Island  with  St.  Uermanus,  the  son  of  Ridigius,  and 
became  a  saint  of  Bangor  lUtyd;  but,  subsequently,  he  was  a 
bishop  and  a  saint  of  Llanbadam-Vawr,  in  Ceredigion.  He 
was  first  cousin  to  Cadvan,  and  both  were  cousins  to  Illtyd  the 
Knight,  in  whose  college  they  were  saints  at  Caer- Worgom. 

56.  Cynan,     \       Who  were  all  saints  and  learned  persons  that 

57.  Degwy,    J  were,  with  Cadvan,  brought  to  this  Island  by 

58.  Mael,       I   St.  Gerraanus  ;  and  all  of  them  became  saints 

59.  Sulien,     I   in  the  chief  college  of  Illtyd,  and  that  of  Cattwg, 

60.  Ethrias,  /  at  Llancarvan ;  but  they  all  went  as  saints  with 

61.  Llywyn,  I   Cadvan    to    Bardsey,   except    Docheu,    whom 

62.  Llyvab,^  1  Teilo  appointed    bishop    of   Llandaff    in  his 

63.  Docheu,*  j  stead. 

64.  Tydecho,  the  son  of  Amwn  Ddu,  king  of  Graweg,  the  son 
of  Emyr  Llydaw.     He  was  first  cousin  to  Cadvan. 

65.  Saint  Peirio,  the  son  of  Caw  Cawlwyd,  a  saint  of  Illtyd's 
college,  and  who  succeeded  him  as  principal  of  that  college,  where 
he  lies  buried.' 


1  In  other  Lista  he  is  more  correctly  named  Llynah,  which  agrees  with  his 
Latinized  name  of  Lunapeius,  given  in  the  Liber  Landavensis.  He  became  a 
suffragan  bishop  in  the  diocess  of  Llandaff. 

'  St.  Oudoccus.  3  Soe  the  Liber  Landavensis,  pages  204,  and  Ò5Ì . 

ds 


500  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

66.  Trinio,  the  son  of  Diwng,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  and 
Cadvan'^s  first  cousin. 

67.  Maeleric^,  the  son  of  Gwyddno,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw  : 
he  was  cousin  to  Cadvan ;  and  both  are  saints  in  Bardsey . 

68.  Tygai  Glassog,  of  Maelan,  the  son  of  Ithel  of  Armorica,  and 
a  saint  in  Bardsey.     His  church  is  in  Gwynedd. 

69.  Llechid,  the  daughter  of  Ithel  of  Armorica,  a  saint  of  Ar- 
llechwedd,  where  her  church  is. 

71.  Saint  Trillo,  the  son  of  Ithel  of  Armorica;  a  saint  in  Bard- 
sey ;  but  his  church  is  in  Bhôs. 

70.  Cybi,  the  son  of  Selyv,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Erbin, 
the  son  of  Gystennyn  Garnau,  a  saint  of  Bangor  Dunawd,'  whose 
churches  are  at  Holyhead,  in  Anglesey ;  and  Llangybi,  in  Gwent. 

72.  Saint  Elvod,  of  the  lineage  of  Cawlwyd ;  and  a  bishop  of 
Holyhead,  in  Anglesey. 

73.  Patrick,  the  son  of  Alfred,  the  son  of  Goronwy,  of  Gwar- 
eddog  in  Arvon,  who  lived  in  the  time  of  St.  Elvod,  and  belonged 
to  the  college  of  Cybi,  in  Anglesey,  of  which  he  was  a  saint. 

74.  Patrick  Maenwyn,  of  Gower,  who  converted  the  Irish  to  the 
Christian  faith.     His  church  is  at  Aberllychwr.^ 

75.  Saint  Cadvarch,  the  son  of  Caradoc  Vreichvras,  the  son  of 
Llyr  Merini ;  he  was  a  saint  of  Bangor  Dunawd,  and  his  church 
was  at  Lleyn,  in  Arvon. 

76.  Tangwn,  the  son  of  Caradoc  Vreichvras,  (king  of  the  dis- 
trict between  the  Wye  and  the  Severn,)  the  son  of  Llyr  Myrini ; 
his  church  is  Llangoed,  in  Anglesey. 

77.  Maethlu,  the  son  of  Caradoc  Vreichvras,  whose  church  is 
Llanvaethlu,  in  Anglesey. 

78.  Tyssilio,  the  son  of  Brochwel  Ysgithrog,  the  son  of  Cyn- 
gar,  the  son  of  Cadell  Deymllwg,  by  Arddun  Baunasgell,  the 
daughter  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain. 

79.  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael,  the  son  of  Senyllt,  whose 
church  is  Llandingad,  in  Gwent;  and  who  was  a  saint  of  the  col- 
lege of  St.  Cattwg,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw. 

80.  Cyngar,  the  son  of  Arthwg,  the  son  of  Ceredig,  the  son  of 
Cunedda  Wledig,  whose  college  was  in  Morganwg,  the  place  being 
now  called  Llangenys. 

1  Called  also  Meilir,  and  Maelrhys.  He  is  the  patron  saint  of  LUmvaelrhyB 
Chapel,  Caernarvonshire.  '  Bangor-Iscoed,  Flintshire. 

3  See  page  4^5  of  this  work;  and  also  Professor  Rees's  Welsh  Saints,  page 
128. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  501 

81 .  Saint  Llywelyn,  of  Trallwng,  the  son  of  Tegonwy,  the  son 
of  Teon,  the  son  of  Gwineu  Davreuddwyd. 

82.  Gwyddvarch,  the  son  of  Llywelyn,  of  Trallwng;  a  saint  of 
the  college  of  Cybi,  in  Anglesey  [Holyhead.] 

83.  Saint  Aelhaearn,  the  son  of  Hygarn,  the  son  of  Gaerwael, 
the  son  of  Cyndrwyn,  by  Llystinwennau.  His  church  is  at  Caer- 
Einion,  in  Powys. 

84.  Saint  Llwchaearn,  the  son  of  Hygam,  ut  stspra;  a  saint 
of  Bangor  Dunawd,  whose  church  is  in  Cedewain. 

85.  Saint  Gynhaeam,  the  son  of  Hygarn,  tU  supra^  whose 
church  is  in  Eivionydd,  in  Arvon. 

86.  Gwyddvarch,  the  son  of  Alarwt,  prince  of  Pwyl,  whose 
church  is  Meivod,  in  Powys. 

87.  Ystyffan,  the  son  of  Mawan,  the  son  of  Gyngen,  the  son  of 
Gadell  Deymllwg,  whose  church  is  Llanstyphan,  in  Maelienydd. 

88.  Saint  Tyvryddog,  whose  church  is  in  Anglesey. 

89.  Tudclud,      ^       The  sons   of  Saithenin,   of  the  plain   of 

90.  Geneddyl,       Gwyddno,  in  Geredigion ;   whose  lands  were 

91 .  Myrini,         -  overwhelmed  by  the   sea ;   whereupon   they 

92.  Tudnov,  became  saints  of  Bangor  Dunawd. 

93.  Sencwyr, 

94.  Saint  Samson,  of  Bangor  Illtyd,  the  son  of  Amwn  Ddu, 
king  of  Graweg,  in  Arraorica.  He  was  also  a  bishop  of  that  col- 
lege, and  after  that,  of  York ;  but  subsequently  of  Armorica.  He 
lies  buried  in  lUtyd'^s  church.* 

*  See  page  364.  The  Editors  are  indebted  to  Mr.  Wakeman,  of  the  Graig, 
Monmouthshire,  for  the  following  observations  respecting  St.  Samson.  **  The 
time  when  this  person  lived,  or  when  he  died,  would  not  be  worth  the  trouble 
of  investigating,  were  it  not  for  tlic  assistance  to  be  derived  from  it,  in  elucida- 
ting the  history  of  our  country,  and  fixing  the  era  of  other  persons  more  in- 
timately connected  with  our  own  native  land.  Samson  was  grandson  to 
Meyrig  ab  Tewdrig,  prince  of  G  went  and  Morgan wg,  first  cousin  of  Moigan 
ab  Atlu'wys ;  contemporary  with  and  intimate  friend  of  St.  Teilo,  and  his 
brother-in-law,  Budic,  tlie  Armorican  prince.  To  enumerate  the  various 
dates  assigned  to  this  saint,  by  different  authors,  would  only  be  a  waste  of 
time ;  the  date  of  one  event  in  his  life,  is,  however,  certain.  That  he  was 
Bishop  of  Dole  in  557, — for  in  that  year  he  attended  and  subscribed  the  Acts 
of  the  second  council  of  Paris, — the  very  year  in  which  the  plague,  called  the 
Yellow  Death,  broke  out,  which  caused  his  friend  Teilo  to  visit  him.  The 
year  in  which  he  went  to  Dole  may  be  ascertained  very  nearly  from  a  fact 
stated  in  the  Liber  Landavensis,  page  802 ;  That  on  his  arrival  in  Armorica 
he  found  a  foreigner,  called  Count  Commotus,  ruling  the  country,  having 
blain  the  native  prince,  Jonas,  or  Jena,  and  imprisoned  his  sun  Judual.  From 


502  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

95.  Saint  Teymog,  the  son  of  Arwystli  Gloff ;  whose  church  is 
in  the  vale  of  Clwyd.     He  was  a  saint  of  Bangor  Diinawd. 

96.  Tydiaw,  the  son  of  Arwystli  Gloff;  his  church  is  in  Der- 
wen  Cyveiliog. 

97.  Saint  Tyvrydog,  the  son  of  Arwystli  Gloff,  who  was  a  saint 
of  Bardsey  and  Anglesey. 

98.  Marchell,  the  daughter  of  Arwystli  Gloff.  The  mother 
of  these  children  of  Arwystli  was  Achanwedd,  the  daughter  of 
Amlawdd  Wledig. 

99.  Urien,  the  son  of  Cynvarch,  the  son  of  Meirchion  GUI,  the 
son  of  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  the  son  of  Cenau,  the  son  of  Coel  Godebog; 
a  saint  of  Bangor  Cattwg,  at  Llancarvan. 

100.  Llywarch  Hen,  the  son  of  Elidr  Lydanwyn,  the  son  of 
Meirchion  GŴ1,  the  son  of  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  the  son  of  Genau,  the 
son  of  Coel  Godebog. 

101.  Cynwyd  Cynwydion,  the  son  of  Cynvelyn,  the  son  of 
Garthrwys,  the  son  of  Mor,  the  son  of  Oeneu,  the  son  of  Coel  Qo- 
debog,  whowas  a  saint  of  Bangor  Cattwg. 

102.  Clydno  Eiddyn,  the  son  of  Cynwyd  Cynwydion,  the  son 
of  Cynvelyn,  ut  supra. 

Gregory  of  Tours,  a  contemporary  author,  (who  was  bom  in  539,  consecrated 
in  573,  and  died  in  593  or  598,)  we  learn  that  this  Commotus,  or  as  he  calls 
him,  Conumur,  was  an  officer  of  Childehert,  the  first  king  of  Paris.  In  546 
Armorica,  which  at  that  time,  like  Britain,  was  divided  into  several  petty 
kingdoms,  was  in  a  state  of  commotion,  during  which  Canao,  the  fourth  son  of 
Rhiwal  or  Howel  II,  father  of  Jonas  or  Jena  and  two  others,  imprisoned 
Maelian  the  youngest.  Childehert  took  advantage  of  these  disturbances  to 
invade  the  country,  when  Jena  was  slain  hy  his  lieutenant  Conumur,  and  his 
son  Judual  sent  prisoner  to  Paris.  It  must  have  heen  hetween  547  and  557 
that  Samson  went  to  Dole;  and  if  it  is  fixed  in  550,  it  cannot  he  fiir  out. 
From  what  b  related  in  the  life  of  St.  Samson,  it  may  he  inferred  that  he 
was  then  a  young  man;  he  could  not,  however,  he  less  than  25  yean  old,  as 
he  could  not  he  ordained  priest  before  21,  and  he  would  not  he  conescnted 
immediately ;  three  or  foiu-  years  is  little  enough  to  allow  him  for  the  exer- 
cise of  his  ministry  before  he  was  made  a  bishop;  this  would  place  his  birth  in 
525.  He  died,  according  to  some  accounts,  at  the  age  of  68,  which  would  be 
in  592,  the  year  in  which  Cressy  places  it.  Alban  Butler,  indeed,  says  he  died 
in  564;  but  this  is  evidently  wrong.  His  grandfather,  prince  Meyrîg,  outlived 
the  great  plague,  which  lasted  from  557  to  562,  and  made  grants  to  Oudoeens 
the  successor  of  Teilo,  who  could  not  in  all  probability  have  been  conseersted 
before  570.  If  the  death  of  Meyrig  is  placed  in  575,  Samson  would  then  be 
50;  and  as  he  could  not  well  be  less  than  40  years  younger  than  his  grand- 
father, the  latter  would  be  90.  But  if,  accordijog  to  Butler,  Samson's  death  is 
placed  in  564,  Meyrig  must  hare  llyed  to  the  patriarchal  age  of  120." 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  503 

103.  Cynan  Gtenir,  the  son  of  Cynwyd  Cynwydion,  the  son  of 
pynvelyn,  ut  iupra. 

104.  Cynvelyn  Drwsgl,  the  son  of  Cynwyd  Cynwydion,  the  son 
of  Cynvelyn,  ut  supra. 

105.  Gadrod  Calchvynydd,  the  son  of  Cynwyd  Cynwydion,  the 
son  of  Cynvelyn,  ut  supra. 

106.  Dynawd,  \      Sons  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain ;  and 

107.  Carwyd,  >  saints  of  Bangor  Dunawd. 

108.  Sawyl  Benuchel,     ) 

109.  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  the  son  of  Arthwys,  the  son  of  Mor, 
the  son  of  Morydd,  the  son  of  Geneu,  the  son  of  Coel  Godebog. 

110.  Gwrgi,     )    Sons  of  Eliver  Gosgorddvawr,  the  son  of  Arth- 

111.  Peredur.  )  rwys,  the  son  of  Mor,  the  son  of  Morydd,  the 
son  of  Ceneu,  the  son  of  Coel  Gt>debog,  saints  of  Bangor  Illtyd ; 
and  Peredur  was  principal  there. 

112.  Gwenddolaa,^      Sons  of  Ceidiaw,  the  son  of  Arthrwys, 

113.  Nudd,  >  the  son  of  Myr,  the  son  of  Morydd,  the  son 

114.  Coy,  )  of  Ceneu,  the  son  of  Coel  Gt>debog ;  saints 
of  Bangor  Illtyd. 

115.  Bhydderch,  the  son  of  Tudwal,  the  son  of  Tndclnd,  the 
son  of  Cedig,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen. 

116.  Morday,  the  son  of  Serian,  the  son  of  Dyynwal  Hen. 

117.  ElflSn,  the  son  of  Gwyddno,  the  son  of  €ku*boniawn,  the 
son  of  Dyynwal  Hen,  king  of  Gwent.  He  and  the  preceding  two 
were  saints  of  Bangor  Illtyd. 

118.  Gayran,  the  son  of  Aeddan  Vradog,  the  son  of  Dyynwal 
Hen. 

119.  Elidr  Mwynyawr,  the  son  of  (Jorwst  Briodawr,  the  son  of 
Dyynwal  Hon. 

120.  Bhiallu,  the  son  of  Tudwalch  Camau,  prince  of  Cornwall, 
by  Dyyanwedd,  the  daughter  of  Amlawdd  Wledig. 

121.  St.  Bride,  the  Nun,  the  daughter  of  Dwpdagws,  a  saint  of 
Ireland.  Her  church  is  Saint  Bride's  Major,  in  Morganwg;  and 
she  has  other  churches  in  Gwent-is-coed,  [Nether-Gwent,]  and 
Gwynllwg  [Wentloog.] 

1 22.  Tanwg,  the  son  of  Ithel  Hael,  of  Armorica,  a  saint  of  the 
Bangor  of  Bardsey,  who  came  with  Cadyan  and  Germanus,  the 
son  of  Bidigius,  to  this  Island.     His  church  is  in  Ardudwy. 

123.  Nonn,  the  mother  of  St.  Dayid,  and  daughter  of  Gynyr  of 
Caer  Gawch,  in  Menevia ;  which  Gynyr  gave  his  possessions  to 
God  and  St.  Dayid,  so  as  to  erect  a  church  at  Menevia;  to  which 


504  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

place  St.  David  came  from  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk,  after  the  death  of 
the  Emperor  Arthur ;  and  thenceforth  it  became  the  metropolitan 
church  of  Wales. 

124.  .Gynyr  Gwent,  of  Caer  Qawch,  in  Menevia,  the  father  of 
Nonn  the  Blessed,  the  mother  of  St.  David ;  who  gave  his  posses- 
sions to  God  and  his  saints  for  ever. 

125.  Nidan,  the  son  of  Gwrvyw,  the  son  of  Pasgen,  the  son  of 
Cynvarch,  the  son  of  Meirchion,  the  son  of  Grwst,  the  son  of  Genau, 
the  son  of  Coel  Godebog. 

126.  Meiryn,  the  son  of  Myrini,  the  son  of  Saithenin,  of  the 
plain  of  Gwyddno,  whose  church  is  in  Wentloog. 

127.  Lloniaw,  the  son  of  Alan  Vergam,  the  son  of  Emyr  Lly- 
daw,  who  was  of  Bangor  lUtud,  but  his  church  is  in  Ceredigion.* 

128.  Bodvyn,     x     The  sons  of  Helig,  the  son  of  Glannog,  of 

129.  Brothen,     /the  plain  of  Gwyddno,  whose  territory  was 

130.  Emin,        ^overwhelmed  by  the  sea.     They  are  saints  in 

131.  Brenda,      JGhvynedd,  from  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey. 

132.  Gwynwn,  the  son  of  Helig,  the  son  of  Glannog,  a  saint  of 
Ceredigion. 

133.  Edeym,  the  son  of  Vortigem,  of  Cattwg'^s  college ;  whose 
church  is  in  Llanedeym,  in  Morganwg ;  and  there,  also,  his  coll^ 
of  three  hundred  saints. 

134.  Edem,  the  son  of  Nudd,  the  son  of  Beli,  the  son  of  Rhun, 
the  son  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd.     His  church  is  in  Anglesey. 

135.  Saint  Gwrhir,  servant  of  Teilo,  in  Bangor  Gattwg. 
His  church,  Llysvaen,  in  Wentloog. 

136.  Saint  Lupus,  of  Gaul,  who  has  two  churches  in  Morganwg. 
It  was  in  the  time  of  Vortigem  that  he  came  to  Britain,  with 
St.  Germanus,  the  son  of  Ridigius. 

137.  Saint  Isan,  of  Bangor  lUtyd,  whose  church  is  Llanisan,  in 
Wentloog. 

138.  Elvyw,  the  son  of  Dirdan,  and  Banhadlen,  the  daughter  of 
Gynyr,  of  Caer  Gawch. 

139.  Anev,  the  son  of  Caw  Cawlwyd,  who  was  a  hermit  in 
Anglesey. 

140.  Beuno,  the  son  of  Hywgi,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of 
Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  Cadell  Deymllwg;  who  was  a 
saint  of  the  chief  college  of  Cattwg  his  uncle;  he  exercised  ecclesias- 


Llanllwnl,  in  the  Vale  of  Teivy,  Caermarthenshire. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  505 

ticals  upremacy  in  Ghirynedd ;  where  his  college  was,  i.  e.  Clynog 
Vawr,  in  Arvon. 

141.  Saint  Anna,  the  daughter  of  Uthyr  Bendragon,  and  mother 
of  Gynyr,  of  Caer  Gawch.  After  which  she  became  the  wife  of 
Amwn  Ddu,  king  of  Graweg,  in  Armorica,  and  also  of  Bangor  lUtyd, 
by  whom  she  had  a  son,  called  Saint  Samson,  of  lUtyd'^s  college. 

142.  Dogvael,  the  son  of  Ithel  Hael,  the  son  of  Gedig,  the  son 
of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig ;  whose  church  is  in  Dy- 
yed.  And  he  was  also  a  saint  of  the  college  of  Gattwg,  at  Llan- 
carvan. 

143.  Saint  Mabon,  the  son  of  Enllech,  the  son  of  Hydwn, 
whose  church  is  Llanvabon,  in  Morganwg.  He  was  brother  of 
Teilo.     He  had  another  church,  Bhiwvabon,  in  Maelor. 

144.  Saint  Tyvodwg,  who  came  to  this  Island  with  Germanus 
and  Gadvan.  He  has  churches  in  Morganwg;  and  one  in 
Somersetshire. 

145.  Saint  Tudwg,  of  Gennydd''s  college,  in  (îower;  whose 
church  is  in  Morganwg. 

146.  EUdeym,  the  brother  of  Vortigem;  whose  church  is  in 
Morganwg. 

147.  Gathan,  the  son  of  Gawrdav,  the  son  of  Garadoc  Vreich- 
vras ;  and  his  church  is  in  Llangathan. 

148.  Gewydd,  the  son  of  Gaw  Cawlwyd;  whose  church  is  Llan- 
gewydd,  in  Morganwg. 

149.  Garrai,  the  son  of  Gewydd,  the  son  of  Gaw  Gawlwyd ; 
whose  church  is  Llanarrai,  in  Morganwg. 

150.  Saint  Gwrnertli,  the  brother  of  St.  Llywelyn,  of  Trallwng. 

151.  Tudvyl,  the  daughter  of  Brychan  Brychoiniog;  whose 
church  is  Merthyr  Tudvyl,  where  she  was  slain  by  tlie  pagans. 

152.  Saint  Sadwm,  whose  churches  arc  in  Dyved  and  Anglesey. 
He  was  a  saint  of  Asaph^s  college,  and  a  confessor  there. 

153.  Saint  Rhidian,  of  Cennydd's  college,  in  Gower. 

154.  Saint  Brynach,  whose  churches  are  in  the  counties  of 
Morganwg  and  Brecknock. 

155.  Saint  Cyvelach,  who  became  bishop  of  Llandaff,^  and  was 
slain  by  the  pagans.  His  church  is  Llangyfelach,  in  Gower ;  and 
he  has  another  in  Ewyas. 


1  According  to  the  Liber  Landavensis,  this  Cyvelach  must  have  been  only 
a  suffragan  bishop  in  Llandaff.  His  name  occurs  in  a  List  of  the  Bishops  of 
Glamorgan,  given  as  a  note  in  that  Work. 


606  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

156.  Saint  Madoc,  the  son  of  Gildas  j  Coed  Aur,  who  was  of 
Cennydd'*s  college,  and  whose  church  is  Llanmadoc,  in  Ctower. 

16  7,  Saint  Tathan,  the  chaplain  of  Ynyr  Gwent;  one  of  whose 
churches  is  Llandathan,  in  Morganwg,  and  the  other,  Gaerwent. 

168.  Saint  Tewdrig,  the  son  of  Teithvallt,  king  of  Morganwg; 
whose  church  is  Merthyr  Tewdrig,  in  Gwent-is-Coed,  where  he 
was  slain  by  the  pagans. 

169.  Tybiau,  the  daughter  of  Brychan  Brycheiniog ;  a  saint  in 
Ystrad  Towy,  where  she  was  slain  by  the  pagans. 

160.  Saint  Ciwg,  the  son  of  Arawn,  the  son  of  Cynvarch; 
whose  church  is  Llangiwg,  in  Gower. 

161.  Saint  CoUen,  the  son  of  Gwynnog,  the  son  of  Olydog,  the 
son  of  Cawrdav,  the  son  of  Caradoc  Vreichvras ;  whose  church  is 
Llangollen,  in  lâl. 

162.  Saint  Genwyn,  whose  church  is  in  Geredigion;  he  was  a 
saint  of  Bangor  Padam. 

163.  Saint  liar,  who  came  to  this  Island  with  Gadvan;  and 
whose  church  is  in  Morganwg. 

164.  Saint  Hywgi,  the  son  of  Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid,  the 
son  Gadell  Deymllwg;  who  gave  his  lands  to  God  and  Gattwg  for 
ever,  and  then  became  a  saint  with  Gattwg ;  his  son  was  Saint 
Beuno. 

165.  Saint  Tegwyn,  who  came  to  this  Island  with  Gadvan,  in 
the  time  of  Vortigem ;  who  procured  wise  men  and  divines  from 
Gaul,  now  called  France,  to  renovate  Ghristianty  in  this  Island, 
in  consequence  of  the  decay  and  failure  that  had  befaUen  the  faith 
in  Ghrist. 

166.  Arwystli  Hen,  an  Italian,^  who  came  here  with  Bran,  the 
son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  as  his  priest. 

167.  Gwyndav  Hen,  of  Armorica,  the  confessor  of  St.  Grermanus. 
the  son  of  Bidigius ;  who  came  to  this  Island  with  the  said  Qer- 
manus,  in  the  time  of  Vortigem. 

168.  Hevin,  the  son  of  Gwyndav  Hen,  of  Armorica,  the  priest 
of  Gadvan  and  his  saints  in  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey. 

169.  Arwystli  Gloff,  the  son  of  King  Saithenin,  of  the  plain  of 
Gwyddno,  whose  lands  were  overwhelmed  by  the  sea.  He  was 
buried  at  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey. 


1  Supposed  by  many  to  be  the  Aristobulus,  mentioned  in  the  Epistle  to  tbe 
Romans  xvl.  10.    See  Professor  Rees's  Welsh  Saints^  page  81. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  507 

170.  Saint  Gannau,  the  son  of  Gwyddliw/  the  son  of  Chvynlliw, 
the  son  of  Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegyd,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deyrnllwg; 
whose  church  is  Llangannau,  in  Morganwg. 

171.  Saint  Arthan ;  whose  church  is  in  Qwynllwg. 

172.  Saint  Gwyan,  whose  college  was  at  Llangwyan  [Llan- 
quian,]  in  Morganwg,  where  he  was  slain  by  pagan  Saxons. 

173.  Saint  Cyfyw,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Glywys,  the 
son  of  Tegyd,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deymllwg.  St.  Gattwg^s  registrar 
at  his  chief  college. 

174.  Saint  Gwyllog,  the  daughter  of  Gaw  Gawlwyd,  of  Twr 
Gelyn,  in  Anglesey,  where  she  had  lands  from  Maelgwn  Gwynedd; 
and  he  was  driven  from  his  dominion  in  Gwm  Gawlwyd,  by  the 
Gwyddelian  Picts. 

175.  Mygnach,  the  son  of  Mydno,  of  Gaer  Seen,  registrar  of 
the  college  of  Gybi.  He  was  a  saint  at  Holyhead,  in  Anglesey, 
and  afterwards  Principal  of  that  college. 

176.  St.  Tegvan ;  his  church  is  in  Anglesey.  He  was  confessor 
at  Bangor  Gybi  [Holyhead.] 

177.  Arddun  Benasgell,  daughter  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain.  She 
was  the  wife  of  Brochwel  Ysgithrog,  king  of  Pengwem  Powys 
[Shrewsbury.] 

178.  Brychan  Brycheiniog,  the  son  of  Enllech,  the  son  of  Hy- 
dwn,  king  of  Ireland.  The  mother  of  Brychan  was  Marchell, 
the  daughter  of  Tewdrig,  the  son  of  Teithvallt,  the  son  of  Teith- 
rin,  the  son  of  Nynniaw,  king  of  Graweg  and  Garth  Mattrin. 

179.  St.  Samlet.     His  church  is  Gilvai  in  Gorwennydd. 

180.  Fili,  the  son  of  Gennydd,  the  son  of  Aur  of  Goed  Aur. 
His  church  is  in  Rhos  Fili,  in  Gower. 

181.  St.  Maelog,  the  son  of  Gaw  Gawlwyd.  He  has  a  church 
in  Anglesey,  and  in  Ystrad  Towy.' 

182.  St.  Egwad,  the  son  of  Gynddilic,  the  son  of  Gennydd,  the 
son  of  Aur  of  Goed  Aur.     His  church  is  in  Ystrad  Towy. 

183.  Aurdeym,  the  son  of  Gwrtheym  Gwrtheneu  [Vortigem.] 
His  church  is  in  Morganwg. 


'  Gwyddlyw,  or  Guodloia,  was  a  suflfragan  bishop  in  the  diocese  of  Llan- 
daff. 

'  Lianvaclog*  in  Anglesey ;  Llandy  vaclog,  in  Caermarthenshire ;  and  tw 
others  of  the  same  name  in  Brcconshire,  are  dedicated  to  St.  Maelog. 

3  T 


508  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 


THE  THREE  HOLY  FAMILIES  OF  THE  ISLAND  OF 
BRITAIN. 

I.  The  family  of  Caw  of  North  Britain,  Lord  of  Cwm  Cawlwyd, 
who  was  driven  from  his  country,  by  the  Gwyddelian  Picts,  and 
came  to  Wales^  and  with  him  his  sons.  And  Arthur  and  Mael- 
gwn  Gwynedd  gave  them  lands;  and  the  greater  number  of  his 
sons  and  daughters  became  Saints  in  the  Bangors,*  which  were  in 
those  times,  that  is  to  say,  those  of  lUtyd,  Gattwg^  Dunawd, 
Deiniol,  and  Padam,  and  that  of  Gadvan,  in  Bardsey. 

THE  CHILDREN  OF  CAW. 

1,  Peiro;  2,  Gallgof;  3,  Eugrad;  4,  Gennydd;  6,  Aneurin 
6,  GaflFo;  7,  Dirinic;  8,  Gewydd;  9,  Maelog;  10,  Gwrddyly 
11,  Gilydd;  12,  HuaU;  13,  Eigrawn;  14,  Gyhelyn  the  Bard 
15,  Gyngar;  16,  Samson;  17,  Ganna,  daughter  of  Caw. 

The  father  of  these,  namely,  Gaw  of  North  Britain,  was  driven 
from  his  country  by  the  Gwyddelian  Picts,  and  he  was  lord  of 
Gawlwyd.  And  he  and  his  children  came  to  Wales;  some  to  Ar- 
thur, and  he  gave  them  lands;  and  some  of  them  became  saints  in 
the  college  of  Illtyd,  and  in  that  of  Teilo,  and  of  Gattwg;  others 
went  to  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  and  he  gave  them  lands  in  Anglesey, 
namely  Twr  Gelyn,  after  which  he  was  called  Gaw  of  Twr  Gelyn. 


1  The  Welsh  word  ^'Bangor,"  when  applied  to  any  particular  establish- 
ment, signifies  a  ''high  Choir,  or  chief  College  or  University/'  and  has»  in 
most  instances,  been  left  untranslated  in  this  work.  The  term  ''Cór/'  firom 
which  Bangor  is  formed,  has  likewise  been  rendered  ''college."  These  pri- 
mitive institutions  were  at  once  the  seats  of  learning  and  instmctioOy  and 
the  centres  from  which  the  Christian  religion  extended  over  the  coontij. 
Of  their  internal  arrangements  and  regulations,  but  little  is  known,  excepting 
what  may  be  gleaned  from  the  Welsh  Triads,  and  the  Legendary  Lives  of  the 
British  Saints.  Choral  service,  or  chaunting,  seems  to  have  formed  a  part  of 
the  religious  exercises  of  these  communities.  The  numbers  that  flodced  to 
the  Bangors  and  colleges  for  instruction  were  very  great.  It  is  asserted  that 
St.  Dubricius  had  about  two  thousand  pupils  at  his  establishment,  at  Henllan 
on  the  Wye;  Bangor  Illtyd  contained  two  thousand  four  hundred  members; 
and  Bangor  Vawr  in  Maelor  had  two  thousand  one  hundred,  divided  into 
seven  different  classes,  under  their  respective  superintendents. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  509 

II.  The  secondFamily  of  Saints  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  the 
Family  of  Gunedda  Wledig.  And  thus  are  they  arranged  as 
saints  of  the  lineage  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

1.  Saint  David^  the  son  of  Sandde,  the  son  of  Gedig,  the  son  of 
Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig;  the  mother  of  David  was 
Nonn  the  Blessed,  the  daughter  of  Gynyr  of  Gaer  Gawch,  in 
Menevia,  who  is  a  saint  in  her  two  churches,  one  of  which  is  in 
Grower,  and  the  other  Kidwely. 

2.  Teilo,  the  son  of  Enllech,  the  son  of  Hydwn,  who  was  a  king 
in  Ireland,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

3.  Edem,  the  son  of  Beli,  the  son  of  Bhun,  the  son  of  Maelgwn, 
the  son  of  Gaswallawn  Lawhir,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig. 

4.  Meirion,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

5.  Gadwaladcr  the  Blessed,  the  son  of  Gadwallawn,  the  sou  of 
Gadvan,  the  son  of  lago,  the  son  of  Beli,  the  son  of  Bhun,  the  son 
of  Maelgwn,  the  son  of  Gaswallawn  Lawhir,  tho  son  of  Einion 
Yrth,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

6.  Dogvael,  the  son  of  Ithel,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig. 

7.  Pedrwn,  the  son  of  Gorwn,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of 
Gunedda^Wledig. 

8.  Tyssul,  the  son  of  Gorwn,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig. 

9.  Garannog,  the  son  of  Gorwn,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig. 

10.  Gynvelyn,  the  son  of  Bleiddyd,  the  son  of  Meirion,  the 
son  of  Tybiawn,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

11.  Gyndeym  [Kentigem,]  the  son  of  Gyngar,  the  son  of  Gar- 
thwg,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

12.  Gyngar,  tho  son  of  Garth wg,  tho  son  of  Geredig,  tho  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig. 

13.  Avan  Buallt,  tho  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda 
Wledig ;  and  Tegvedd,  the  daughter  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  Gadell 
Deymllwg,  was  his  mother. 

14.  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Gyngar,  the  son  of  Garth  wg,  the  son 
of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

15.  Eurgain,  the  daughter  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  the  son  of 
Gaswallawn  Lawhir,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Gunedda 
Wledig. 

And  others  besides  thcísc,  of  the  j-acc  of  Cuncd<!a  Wlediir. 


510 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 


III.  The  thiM  Family  of  Saints  of  the  Island  of  Britain^  is 
that  of  Brychan  Brycheiniog. 

Enllech  Goronog  [the  crown-wearing,]  was  a  king  of  Ireland, 
and  he  married  Marchell,  the  daughter  of  Tewdrig,  called  in  some 
books  Tewdwr  the  Great;  and  the  son  of  that  Enllech  was  Brychan, 
who  obtained  his  mother^s  territory,  namely,  Garth  Mattrin,  now 
called  Brycheiniog  [Brecknock ;]  and  then  Garth  Mattrin  ceased 
to  belong  to  Morganwg,  whereas  prior  to  that  it  was  called  ^^  Garth 
Mattrin  in  Morganwg/^  Brychan  of  Brycheiniog  married  three 
wives,  namely: — 

1.  Prawst;  2.  Rhybrawst;  3.  Eurbrawst;  and  their  children 
became  saints  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  on  which  accoant  the  race 
of  Brychan  Brycheiniog  is  called  one  of  the  three  Holy  Families 
of  the  Island  of  Britain;  and  these  are  their  names : — 


1.  Cynog, 

2.  Cyvlewyr, 

3.  Dingad, 

4.  Arthen, 
6.  Clydawc, 

6.  Bhaẅin, 

7.  Cledwyn, 

8.  Rhun, 


1.  Mechell, 

2.  Lleian, 

3.  Hawystl, 

4.  Dwynwen, 

5.  Candrych, 

6.  Gwenddydd, 

7.  Gwladus, 

8.  Nevyn, 

9.  Gwawr, 


TBE  SONS. 

9.  Rhain, 

10.  Pascen, 

11.  Cynbryd, 

12.  Cynvan, 

13.  Nefei, 

14.  Doe  wan, 
16.  Dyvnan, 
16.  Gadoc, 

THE  DAUGHTERS, 

10.  Eleri, 

11.  Eluned, 

12.  Gwrgon, 

13.  Envael, 

14.  Rhiengar, 
16.  Goleuddydd, 

16.  Ceinwen, 

17.  Gwên, 

18.  Cenethlon, 


17.  Mathaeam, 

18.  Gerwin, 

19.  Pabiali, 

20.  Oynin, 

21.  Dyvric, 

22.  Hychan, 

23.  Llechau, 

24.  Nevydd. 


19.  Gwawrddydd, 

20.  Tybiau, 

21.  Clydei, 

22.  Tudvyl, 

23.  Tydicu, 

24.  Tanglwst, 

25.  Arianwen, 

26.  Corth. 


Besides  these  Holy  Families  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  there  is 
also  that  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  which  came  to  the  Island  of  Britain, 
with  Gadvan,  and  St.  Germanus  the  son  of  Ridigius,  to  renovate 
the  Christian  faith,  and  they  established  their  college  in  the 
Island  of  Bardsey:  they  were  as  follows. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  511 

1.  St.  Gad  van,  the  son  of  Eneas  Ledewig  of  Armorica,  whose 
mother  was  Gwen  Teirbron,  the  daughter  of  Emyr  Llydaw. 

2.  Padam  [St.  Patemos,]  the  son  of  Pedredin,  the  son  of  Emyr 
Llydaw,  and  the  cousin  of  Cadvan. 

3.  Tydecho,  the  son  of  Amwn  Ddu,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw, 
and  the  cousin  of  Gadvan. 

4.  Trinio,  the  son  of  Divwg,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  and 
the  cousin  of  Gadvan. 

5.  Maelryd,  the  son  of  Gwyddno,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw, 
and  the  cousin  of  Gadvan. 

6.  Henvyn,  the  son  of  Gwyndav  Hen  [the  aged,]  of  Armorica, 
which  Gwyndav  was  cousin  to  Emyr  Llydaw^  and  his  son  Hev- 
nyn  was  confessor  to  Gadvan,  in  Bardsey. 

7.  Gynan,  who  came  with  Gadvan  to  this  Island,  He  was 
Gadvan^s  chancellor  in  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey. 

8.  Dochdwy,  came  with  Gadvan  to  this  island,  and  was  in  Bardsey, 
and  afterwards  was  a  bishop  in  the  church  of  Teilo,  in  Llandaff, 
whilst  Teilo  was  in  Bardsey  superintending  the  college,  after  the 
death  of  Gadvan. 


These  were  kinsmen  of  Gadvan,  descended 
from  Emyr  Llydaw,  and  came  with  Gadvan 
to  this  Island,  and  are  saints  in  Bardsey, 
and  their  Ghurches  are  in  North  Wales, 
where  they  lived  in  great  piety  and  holiness 
of  life. 


9.  Mael,      ^ 

10.  Ethrias, 

11.  Tanwg, 

12.  Sulien, 

13.  Tegwyn, 

14.  Llewin, 
16.  Llynab,  - 

16.  Tegai,  )     Sons  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica,  who  came  with 

1 7.  Trillo,  \         Gadvan  to  this  Island. 

18.  Llechid,  daughter  of  Ithol  Hael  of  Armorica,  and  sister  of 
Tegai  and  Trillo,  who  came  as  a  saint  to  this  Island  with  Gadvan 
and  her  brothers. 

19.  Baglan,  the  son  of  Ithol  Hael,  who  came  as  a  saint  with 
Gadvan  to  Bardsey. 

20.  Ganna,  the  daughter  of  Tewdwr,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw, 
and  mother  of  Elian  Geimiad, 

21.  Flowin,      )     The  Sons  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica,  saints  of 

22.  Gredivael,  J  the  college  of  the  White  House  on  the  Tav, 
in  Dyved,  where  they  were  with  Pawl,*  a  saint  of  the  college  of 
lUtyd,  establishing  a  Bangor. 

1  Pawl  Hen,  or  Paulinus,  who  was  the  first  Priucipal  of  the  BaDgor  of  Tŷ 
Gwyn  ar  Dav,  in  Caennarthenâhire.    lie  is  stated  in  the  MS.  of  Mr.  Cobb  of 


512  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

23.  Dervael,    )      The  Sons  of  Howel,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw, 

24.  Dwywael,  J         saints  in  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey. 

25.  Lloniaw   Llawhir,   the  son  of  Alan  Firgain,  the  son  of 
Emyr  Llydaw,  a  saint  of  Bangor  Gadvan. 

26.  Gwen  Teirbron,  the  daughter  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  the  mother 
of  Cadvan  of  Bardsey. 

And  these  saints  came  with  Cadvan  to  Bardsey,  and  with  them 
were  many  other  saints  of  the  race  of  the  Cymry,  where  they  went 
after  the  destruction  of  Bangor  Vawr  in  Maelor  by  the  Saxon 
Pagans;  and  from  the  other  colleges  went  numbers  of  others 
to  the  Bangor  of  Cadvan  in  Bardsey. 

The  following  saints  are  of  the  race  of  Macsen  Wledig 
[Maximus,]  king  of  the  Island  of  Britain  and  Emperor  of  Borne. 

1.  Owain  Vinddu,  ^     The  sons  of  Macsen  Wledig,  king  of  the 

2.  Ednyved,  f         of  the  Island  of  Britain  and  Emperor 

3.  PebUg,  ^         of    Bome,  by  Elen  Lueddawc,   the 

4.  Cystennyn,  j  daughter  of  Eudav,*  the  son  of  Cara- 
doc  [Caractacus,]  the  son  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 

6.  Nudd  Hael,  the  son  of  Senyllt,  the  son  of  Cedig,  the  son  of 
Dyvnwal  Hen  [the  agedj  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen 
Wledig. 

6.  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael,  the  son  of  Senyllt,  the  son  of 
Cedig,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of 
Macsen  Wledig.  His  wife  was  Trevrian,  the  daughter  of  Uewin 
Llueddawc  of  Dinas  Eiddin  [Edinburgh]  in  the  North. 

7.  Llidnerth,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael,  ut  supra, 

8.  Baglan,  the  son  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael, 

9.  Lleuddad,  the  son  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael. 

10.  Gwytherin  the  son  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  HaeL 

11.  Tegwyn,  the  son  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael. 

12.  Tevriog,  the  son  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael. 

13.  Eleri,  the  daughter  of  Dingad,  the  son  of  Nudd  Hael. 
They  were  saints  of  the  college  of  Cattwg,  and  went  with  St. 

Dubricius,  to  Bangor  Cadvan  in  Bardsey. 

14.  Melangell,  the  daughter  of  Cyvwlch  Addwyn,  the  son  of 

Cardiff,  given  in  this  work,  to  be  a  son  of  Meyric,  the  son  of  Tewdrig;  batis 
generally  supposed  to  have  been  a  native  of  North  Britain. 

1  Some  generations  are  here  omitted.    See  Professor  Rees's  "  Welsh  Saints," 
page  93. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  613 

Tydwal,  the  son  of  Ceredig,  the  son  of  Edny ved,  the  son  of  Mac- 
sen  Wledig. 

And  this  is  what  is  known  concerning  the  saints  of  the  race  of 
Macsen  Wledig,  some  of  them  of  the  college  of  Grermanns,  and  that 
of  lUtyd,  and  the  younger  of  them  saints  in  the  Bangor  of 
Bardsey. 

Seiriol,  the  son  Owen  Danwyn,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the 
son  of  Gunedda  Wledig,  established  Bangor  Seiriol  in  Penmon. 

St.  Beuno,  the  son  of  Hywgi,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  formed  the 
Bangor  of  Glynog,  which  was  great  in  learning  and  science. 

St.  Cadvan  of  Armorica,  and  St.  David,  established  the  Bangor 
of  Bardsey,  and  the  greatest  number  of  saints  was  in  that. 

Deiniol,  the  son  of  Dunawd,  the  son  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain, 
established  the  Bangor  of  Maelor,  on  the  banks  of  the  Dee,  which 
was  the  most  flourishing  of  all  the  Bangors,  before  it  was  destroyed 
by  the  pagan  Saxons  in  the  battle  of  the  Orchard  of  Bangor. 

St.  Cybi,^  who  established  Bangor  Gybi  [Holyhead,]  in  Angle- 
sey, from  whence  it  was  removed  by  St.  Elvod,  to  Arllechwedd, 
were  he  became  Archbishop. 

Bangor  Illtyd,  was  established  by^  St.  lUtyd,  the  son  of  Bi- 
canus,  nephew,  sister^s  son  to  Emyr  Llydaw,  and  St.  Oermanns, 
the  son  of  Bidigius. 

Bangor  Gattwg,  was  established  by  St.  Dubricius  and  St. 
Crermanus,  and  there  St.  Dubricius  was  confessor  to  St.  G^rmanus. 

Bangor  Teilo,  was  established  by  St.  Dubricius  and  Teilo,  in 
Llandaff. 

Bangor  Padam,  was  established  by  Padam  [St.  Patemus,]  of 
the  college  of  Illtyd,  and  St.  David,  where  Padam  became  a 
celebrated  Archbishop.' 

The  Bangor  of  Mynyw  [Menevia,  i.  e.  St.  David's,]  was  formed 
by  St.  David,  and  Gynyr  of  Gaer  Gawch,  to  which  place  it  was  re- 
moved from  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  where  it  had  been  established  by 
the  Emperor  Theodosius. 

The  Bangor  of  the  White  House  on  the  Tav,  was  established  by 


1  The  Life  of  St.  Cybi,  from  an  ancient  MSS.  in  the  British  MuBeum,  will 
appear  in  the  Volume  of  the  Lives  of  the  British  Sainta,  now  in  preparation 
for  the  press,  by  the  Rev.  W.  J.  Rees,  M.A.  F.S.A. 

'  The  Life  of  St.  Padam  [Patemus,]  from  an  ancient  MS.,  will  also  a^ar 
in  the  above  Volume. 


514  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

Pawl,  a  saint  of  the  college  of  lUtyd,  and  Flewin,  and  Gredivael, 
the  sons  of  Ithel  Hael,  of  Armorica. 

Bangor  Dathan,  in  Gaer  Went,  was  established  by  Tathan,  a 
nephew  to  Illtyd,  and  a  member  of  his  college. 

Bangor  Gyngar  was  established  by  Cyngar,  the  son  of  G^eraint, 
the  son  of  Erbin,  which  was  destroyed  by  the  pagan  Saxons,  and 
afterwards  reconstructed  by  Dochau  of  the  GoUege  of  lUtyd, 
and  called  Bangor  Dochau. 

St.  Gennydd,  the  son  of  Oildas  of  Good  Aur,  formed  a  Bangor, 
in  Llangennydd,  in  Gt)Wer,  and  another  in  Senghenydd  (^Ctaer^ 
philly]  which  were  destroyed  by  the  pagan  Saxons. 

And  the  Bangors  existed  before  the  Monasteries  were  establish- 
ed, and  after  that  they  ceased  to  exists  excepting  such  as  became 
Monasteries. 

In  the  time  of  St.  Gtermanus  were  the  first  palaces  appointed 
for  the  bishops;  before  that  the  bishops  of  the  Island  of  Britain 
had  not  palaces  as  at  present. 

And  thus  end  the  Genealogies  of  the  Saints  of  the  Island  of 
Britain,  and  their  families. 


ly  Edward,  (lolo  Morganwg,)  the  son  of  Edward  Williams,  took  this  oat  of 
the  hook  of  my  relative,  Mr.  Thomas  Hopkin,  of  Llangrallo,  which  book  wis 
the  work  of  Thomas  Evan,  of  Tre  Brynn,  at  the  parish  of  Lhuagrallo,  wiittcn 
about  the  year  1670,  from  old  MSS. 

/IV  O  I  V-  oiw. 

And  I,  Tallesin,  the  son  of  lolo  Moi*ganwg,  L  e.  Talieon,  the  son  of  the 
above  Edward,  the  son  of  Edward  Williams,  retranscribed  it  fiEuthfiilly,  ver- 
batim et  literatim,  from  my  father*s  Manuscript,  January  4^  1841. 

And  this  I  certify  on  my  word  and  conscience, — ^In  the  name  of  God  and 
all  Goodness, 

/l\ 


THE  GENEALOGIES  AND  FAMILIES  OF  THE  SAINTS 
OF  THE  ISLAND  OF  BRITAIN. 

From  the  Long  Book  of  Thomas  Truman  of  PantUiwydd,  in  the 

parish  of  Llansanor,  in  Glamorgan.     Copied  hj  me, 

lolo  Morganwg,  in  the  year  1783. 

/i\  o  I  V  o  i  ^ 


The  three  Chief  Holy  Families  of  the  Island  of  Britain  are  as 
follows : — 

First,  the  family  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith;  and  from 
this  stock  comes  the  family  of  Caw  of  North  Britain,  called  Caw 
Cawlwyd,  and  Caw  of  Twrcelyn,  in  Anglesey. 

The  second  is  the  stock  of  Coel  Godebog;  and  from  that  comes 
the  family  of  Cunedda  Wledig. 

The  third  is  the  stock  of  Brychan  Brycheiniog,  who  came  to 
this  island  to  teach  the  Christian  faith,  in  the  time  of  Tewdrig, 
the  son  of  Teithvall,  king  of  Morganwg,  and  Gwent,  and  Garth 
Mathrin,  and  Erging,  and  Ewyas,  and  the  Red  Gwent  in  the 
Denau;^  and  Marchell,  the  daughter  of  this  Tewdrig,  was  mother 
of  Brychan  Brycheiniog. 

I.  The  family  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr. 

Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  brought  the  Christian  faith 
first  to  this  island  from  Rome,  and  is  therefore  called  Bran  the 
Blessed,  and  with  him  came  St.  Hid,  an  Israelite,  who  converted 
many  to  the  Christian  faith. 

Eigen,  the  daughter  of  Caradoc  [Caractacus,]  the  son  of  Bran, 
the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  married  a  chieftain  named  Sarllog, 
who  was  lord  of  Caersarllog,^  and  she  was  the  first  female  saint  of 
the  Island  of  Britain. 

Sain  t  Lleirwg,  king  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  the  son  of  Coel, 
the  son  of  Cyllin,  the  son  of  Caradoc  [Caractacus,]  the  son  of 
Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith;  his  church  is  Llanlleirwg;  and 
also  another  in  LlandafT.     He  sent  to  Rome  to  bring  back  a  bishop 

'  The  Forest  of  Dean.  2  Old  Saruni. 

3  u 


514  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

in  order  to  confer  baptism  on  such  of  the  race  of  the  Cymrj 
as  sought  the  Christian  faith.  And  Pope  Eleutherius  sent  to  him 
as  bishops,  Elvan,  Medwy,  Dyvan,  and  Fagan.^ 

Saint   Fagan  was  bishop  in  Llansanfagan,^  and  there  is    his 
church. 

Saint  Dyvan  was  bishop  in  Merthyr  Dyvan,  where  he  was  sliun 
by  the  Pagans,  and  there  is  his  church. 

Saint  Medwy  was  bishop  in  Llanvedwy,  where  his  church  is. 

Saint  Elvan  was  bishop  in  Glastonbury,  where  his  church  and 
college  are. 

Saint  Tudwal,  the  son  of  Corinwr,  the  son  of  Oadvan,  the  son  of 
Cynan,  the  son  of  Eudav,  the  son  of  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Bran, 
the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  was  saint  and  bishop. 

Ivor,  the  son  of  Tudwal,  the  son  of  Corinwr,  ut  aupra^  was 
saint  and  bishop. 

Cadvrawd  Bishop,  the  son  of  Cadvan,  the  son  of  Cynan,  the  son 
of  Eudav,  the  son  of  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Bran,  a  saint  of  the 
Island  of  Britain. 

Gwrmael,  the  son  of  Cadvrawd,  the  son  of  Saint  Cadvan,  the 
son  of  Cynan,  ut  supra. 

Cadgyvarch,  saint  and  bishop,  brother  of  Gwrmael,  the  son  of 
Cadvrawd. 

Rhystyd  Hen  [Restitutu  s,]  bishop  of  Caerlleon  onlJsk,  of 
the  race  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Saint  Cloffan,  of  the  race  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr,  was  a  bishop 
in  the  time  of  Cystennyn  Vendigaid  ^Constantino  the  Blessed.]] 

Mabon  Wynn,  called  Mabon  Hen,  a  saint  of  the  race  of  Bran, 
the  son  of  Llyr;  his  church  is  in  Llanvabon. 

Geraint,  the  son  of  Erbin,  the  son  of  Cystennyn  Qoronog,'  Lord 
of  Gereinwg,  and  his  church  is  in  Caerfawydd.* 


i  These  seem  to  have  been  congregational  bishops,  before  the  establiahment 
of  regular  dioceses. 

2  St.  Fagan's,  near  Cardiff,  Glamorganshire. 

»  This  should  be  Cystennyn  Gcmeu,  the  son  of  Cynvor,  the  son  of  Tudwal 
Mwynvawr,  the  spn  of  Cadvan,  the  son  of  Cynan  Meiriadoc.  Cystennyn 
Qoronog  was  the  son  of  Cador,  and  the  successor  of  king  Arthur. 

*  Geraint,  the  son  of  Erbin,  although  said  to  be  the  founder  of  a  church  at 
Caerfawydd  (Hereford,)  does  not  appear  to  have  merited  a  place  amongst  the 
saints  of  Britain,  for  he  occupies  a  distinguished  j>o8Ìtion  amongst  the  heroes 
of  Welsh  Romance,  where  he  is  celebrated  as  a  warrior.  See  the  Mabinogiou, 
by  Lady  Charlotte  Guest. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  415 


Sons  of  Creraint,  the  son  of  Erbin,  were  saints 
in  the  college  of  St.  Germanns  in 
Llancarvan. 


Selev, 

lestyn 

Cyngar, 

Caw  Cawlwyd 

Cyngar,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Erbin,  of  the  college  of  St. 
Germanns,  established  a  college  in  Llangenys,  called  Llan  Docheu 
Vawr,  which  was  destroyed  by  the  pagan  Saxons;  and  St.  Docheu, 
founded  a  college  in  its  stead,   called  Bangor  Docheu. 

Selev,  the  son  of  Geraint,  a  saint  in  the  college  of  Germanus. 

lestyn,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Erbin,  a  saint  of  the 
college  of  Germanus,  established  a  church  in  Anglesey,  to  which 
his  name  was  given. 

Caw,  the  son  of  Geraint,  lord  of  Cwm  Cawlwyd,  in  North  Britain, 
was  driven  from  his  country  by  the  Gwyddelian  Picts,  and  he  came 
to  Wales,  where  he  and  his  sons  had  lands  of  the  Emperor  Arthur, 
and  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  in  Anglesey,  namely  in  that  Island, 
Twrcelyn;  and  he  was  also  called  Caw  of  North  Britain,  and  Caw 
of  Cawlwyd. 

Here  are  the  names  of  the  sons  of  Caw  of  Cawlwyd. 

1 .  St.  Peirio  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  where  he  became  Principal, 
and  his  church  is  in  Anglesey. 

2.  St.  Gallgov  of  Illtyd'^s  college,  he  has  a  church  in  Anglesey. 

3.  Eigrad  of  lUtyd's  college. 

4.  St.  Cennydd  of  Illtyd's  college. 

5.  Ancurin  of  Coed  Aur,  a  saint  of  Cattwg's  college. 

6.  Cyhelyn,  the  bard,  of  Cattwg''s  college. 

7.  Samson,  a  saint  and  bishop  of  Illtyd's  college.  His  churcli 
is  that  of  York. 

8.  Cafo,  a  saint  of  Cyngar's  college.  His  church  is  in  Anglesey. 

9.  St.  Dirinic,  the  son  of  Caw.  His  church  is  in  York,  where 
he  was  slain  by  the  pagan  Saxons. 

10.  Cowydd,  the  son  of  Caw,  a  saint  of  Cattwg''s  college.     His 
church  is  Llangcwydd. 

11.  Cyngar,  the  son  of  Caw,  of  Illtyd's  college. 

12.  Cilydd,  the  son  of  Caw.     His  church  is  in  Dyved. 

13.  Gwrddyly,  the  son   of  Caw.     His  church  is  in  Caerlleon 
on  Usk. 

14.  Maelog,  the  son  of  Caw,  a  saint  of  Cattwg''s  college.     His 
church  is  in  Anglesey. 

15.  Huail,    the    son  of  Caw,  of  CattwgV  college.     His  church 
is  in  Ewvas. 


516  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

16.  Eigrawn,  the  son  of  Caw.     His  church  is  in  ComwalL 

17.  St.  Gaian,  the  son  of  Caw.  His  church  is  in  Powys,  another 
in  Anglesey. 

18.  Gannau,  the  daughter  of  Caw,         ■\ 

19.  Gwenabwy,  the  daughter  of  Caw,   (Their  churches  are  in 

20.  Peillan,  the  daughter  of  Caw,  TAnglesey. 

21.  Cywyllog,  the  daughter  of  Caw,      ^ 

The  children  of  Caw  were  saints  in  the  colleges  of  St.  Germanus, 
Illtyd,  and  Cattwg,  and  some  of  them  became  Principals,  and  es- 
tablished churches  and  colleges  in  other  countries. 

The  sons  of  St.  Gildas,  the  son  of  Caw,  called  Euryn  of  Coed  Aor. 

1.  Nwython,      -v 

2.  Dolgan,         f   They  were  saints  in  the  college  of  Illtyd,  and 

3.  Cennydd,      i  in  that  of  Cattwg,  their  kinsman. 

4.  Gwynno,       ^ 

The  church  of  Gwynno  is  Llanwynno. 

Cennydd  established  a  church  and  college  in  Llangenydd,  in 
Grower,  and  another  college  in  Senghenydd  [Caerphilly,]  that  was 
destroyed  by  the  pagans,  and  the  present  castle  is  on  its  site. 

wy        ,  J    Their  churches  are  in  North  Wales. 

Dolgan,  ) 

St.  Cybi,  the  son  of  Selev,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Erbin, 

was  in  the  college  of  St.  Germanus,  and  went  to  that  of  Bardsey ; 

and  afterwards  he  became  a  bishop  in  Anglesey,  in  the  place  called 

Caergybi  [^Holyhead,]  where  he  established  a  college,  and  in  that 

the  Archbishop  of  Gwynedd  resided,  until  St.  Elvod  removed  the 

site  and  went  to  Bangor  Vawr,  in  Uwch  Conwy. 

Here  are  others  said  to  be  of  the  family  of  Bran,  the  son  of 
Llyr  Llediaith;  namely  lestyn,  the  son  of  Cadell,  the  son  of  Gad- 
van,  the  son  of  Cynan,  the  son  of  Eudav,  the  son  of  Garadoc, 
the  son  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 

St.  Dyvan,  a  man  from  Rome,  the  son  of  Alcwn  Avlerw,  the 
son  of  Yspwyth,  the  son  of  Manawyddan,  the  son  of  Llyr  Lled- 
iUith;  and  he  was  sent  as  a  bishop  to  Wales,  by  Pope  Elentkerius, 
and  he  was  slain  by  the  pagans  in  Merthyr  Dyvan,  where  he  was 
bishop. 

Eldad,*  a  bishop  of  lUtyd^s  college,  the  son  of  Arth,  the  s<mi  of 

1  There  is  a  mistake  here,  or  else  in  what  is  said  respectiiig  Eldad  in 
another  place.    See  onwards  under  Cadell  Deymllwg.— I.  Morg. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  517 

Arthwg  Vrych  [the  freckled,]  the  son  of  Cjetennyn  Goronog,  the 
son  of  Ojnvor,  the  son  of  Tudwal  Mwjnvawr,  the  son  of  Oadan, 
the  son  of  Gynan,  the  son  of  Endav,  the  son  of  Garadoc,  the  son 
of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Marchell,  the  daughter  of  Tewdrig,  the  son  of  Teithvall,  king 
of  Morganwg,  mother  of  Brychan  Brycheiniog. 

Tegwen,  the  daughter  of  Tewdrig,  the  son  of  Teithvall,  was  wife 
of  Grallgu  Rieddoc,  the  father  of  Elian  Geimiad. 

Uvelwyn,^  the  son  of  Gennydd,  the  son  of  Aneurin  y  Coed  Aur, 
was  bishop  in  Llandaff^  and  had  a  church  in  Morganwg;  and  this 
is  the  manner  in  which  his  descent  is  traced  from  Bran,  the  son  of 
Llyr  Llediaith,  namely,  ^ 

St.  Uvelwyn,  the  son  of  Genydd,  the  son  of  Euryn  Ooed  Aur, 
the  son  of  Gaw  of  Gawlwyd,  the  son  of  Oeraint,  the  son  of  Erbin, 
the  son  of  Gystennyn  Goronog,  the  son  of  Tudwal  Mwynvawr,  the 
son  of  Gadvan,  the  son  of  Gynan,  the  son  of  Eudav,  the  son  of 
Garadoc  [^Garactacus,]]  the  son  of  Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son  of 
Llyr  Llediaith. 

This  is  the  manner  in  which  Brychan  Brycheiniog  is  descended 
from  Bran,  the  son  of  ap  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Marchell,  the  daughter  of  Tewdrig,  was  the  wife  of  Anllech 
Goronog,  who  was  king  of  Ireland,  and  their  son  was  called  Bry- 
chan, and  he  had  in  right  of  his  mother  the  territory  of  Grarth 
Mathrin,  which  he  called  after  his  own  name  Brycheiniog,  and 
this  is  his  pedigree. 

Brychan  Brycheiniog,  the  son  of  Marchell,  the  daughter  of 
Tewdrig  Fendigaid,  king  of  Morganwg,  and  Gwent,  and  Garth 
Mathrin,  the  sou  of  Teithvall,  the  son  of  Toithrin,  the  son  of  Nyn- 
niaw,  the  son  of  Eurben,  the  son  of  Edric,  the  son  of  Gasnar 
Draig  Gwont  [the  Dragon  of  Gwent,]  the  son  of  Geiriawn  Draig 
Gwent,  the  son  of  Maran  Wledig,  the  son  of  Meirchion,  the  son  of 
Gwrgan  Vrych  [the  freckled,]  the  son  of  Arthvael,  the  son  of  Ein- 
ydd,  the  son  of  Gwrddy v,  the  son  of  Gorddwvn,  the  son  of  Gorwg, 
the  son  of  Meirchion  Vawdvilwr,  the  son  of  Owen,  the  son  of  Cyllin, 
the  son  of  Garadoc,  the  son  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 


*  From  some  grants  recorded  in  the  Liber  Landavensis,  it  would  appear  that 
Urehvyn  was  contemporary  with  St.  Oudoceus,  and  that  he  was  a  suffragan 
bbhop,  in  the  district  of  Erging. 


518  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

The  three  wives  of  Brychan  Brjcheiniog,  were  Prosori,  and 
Eurbrawst,  and  Bhybrawst;  and  by  those  wives  he  had  the  follow- 
ing children,  namely : — 

1.  Cynog  the  Martyr,  who  was  slain  by  the  pagan  Saxons, 
and  his  church  is  in  Merthyr  Cynog. 

2.  Cyvlewyr  the  Martyr,  who  was  slain  by  the  pagan  Saxons 
in  Ceredigion,  were  he  lies  buried. 

3.  Dingad,  lord  of  Gwent  uwch  Coed  (Over  Went,)  where  his 
church  is. 

4.  Arthen,  his  church  was  in  Gwynllwg,  and  was  demolished  by 
the  pagan  Saxons. 

5.  St.  Clydoc.  His  chur<ỳ  is  in  Ewyas,  were  he  was  slain 
by  the  pagan  Saxons. 

6.  St.  Rhawin,  who  was  slain  on  Pont  Bhun,  in  Merthyr 
Tydvil. 

7.  Cledwyn,  the  son  of  Brychan,  king  of  Ceredigion  and  Dyved. 

8.  Bhun,  the  son  of  Brychan,  who  was  slain  by  the  pagan  Sax- 
ons, at  Pont  Bhun,  were  he  defended  the  bridge  against  them. 

9.  Bhaint,  slain  by  the  pagan  Saxons. 

10.  Pascen,  who  became  a  bishop  in  Spain. 

11.  Cynbryd,  who  was  slain  by  the- pagan  Saxons,  at  Bwlch 
Cynbryd,  [the  pass  of  Cynbryd.] 

12.  Cynvran.  His  church  is  in  Llysvan.  It  was  demolished 
by  the  pagan  Saxons. 

13.  Nefei,  the  son  of  Brychan,  who  is  a  saint  in  Spain,  from 
whence  his  mother  sprang,  who  was  Prosori,  Brychan'*s  third  wife. 

14.  Pabiali,  own  brother  to  Nefei.     He  is  a  saint  in  Spain. 

15.  Dogwan,  who  was  slain  by  the  pagan  Saxons  in  Merthyr 
Dogwan,  in  Dyved,  whore  his  church  is, 

16.  Dyvan.  His  church  is  in  Anglesey.  He  lies  buried  in 
Ireland. 

17.  Cadoc.  His  church  is  in  Llangadog,  in  Ystrad  Towy 
[the  Vale  of  Towy,]  and  he  was  made  a  bishop  by  Dyvrig,  his 
brother,  and  went  to  France,  where  he  lies  buried. 

1 8.  Mathaeam,  the  son  of  Brychan.  He  lies  buried  in  Ceredi- 
gion. 

19.  Gerwyn.  He  was  slain  in  Ynys  Gerwyn.  His  church 
is  in  Cornwall. 

20.  Cynin.     His  church  is  in  Dyved,  where  he  was  a  bishop. 

21.  Dyvrig,  the  son  of  Brychan,  was  confessor  to  Germa- 
nus,  the  son  of  Bidigius,  and  was  principal  of  his  college  in  Llan- 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  519 

carvan,  and  afterwards  Archbishop  of  Llandaff,  and  St.  Gattwg, 
the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  was  appointed  in  his  stead  in  Llancarvan. 
His  mother  was  Eurbrawst,  the  daughter  of  Mejrrig,  the  son  of 
Tewdrig,  king  of  Morganwg.^ 

22.  Hychan,  the  son  of  Brjchan.  His  church  is  in  the  Vale  of 
awyd. 

23.  St.  Llecheu,  the  son  of  Brychan.  His  church  is  Llan- 
Uecheu  in  Ewyas. 

24.  St.  Nevydd,  the  son  of  Brychan,  His  church  is  Llan- 
nevydd  in  the  uplands  of  Bhyvoniog,'  and  afterwards  he  was  a 
bishop  in  the  North  [i.  e.  North  Britain,]  where  he  was  slain  by 
the  pagan  Saxons  and  the  Picts. 

25.  St.  Cai,  the  son  of  Brychan.  His  church  is  in  Abercai, 
where  it  was  demolished  by  the  Danes. 

The  sons  of  Brychan  were  saints  in  the  colleges  of  St.  Gterma- 
nus  and  Illtyd;  and  afterwards  they  formed  a  college  with  St. 
Dubricius,  bishop,  in  the  Weeg  upon  the  Wye.^ 

Here  are  the  names  of  Brychan  Brycheiniog^s  daughters. 

1.  Mechell.  She  was  the  first  wife  of  Oynyr  of  Gaer  Qawch,  and 
mother  of  Nonn  the  Blessed,  mother  of  St.  David. 

2.  Lleian,  wife  of  Gavran,  the  son  of  Aeddan  Vradoc,  the  son 
of  Dy vnwal  Hen,  the  son  of  Edny ved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig. 

3.  Hawystl.     Her  church  is  Llan  Hawystl,  in  Gloucester. 

4f.  Dwynwen.  Her  church  is  in  Anglesey,  and  another  in 
Ceredigion. 

5.  Ceindrych.     Her  church  is  in  Caer  Golawn. 

6.  Gwenddydd.     Her  church  is  in  Towyn  in  the  Cantrev. 


1  A  different  account  of  the  parentage  of  St.  Dubricius  is  given  in  the  Li- 
ber Landavensis,  where  it  is  stated  that  he  was  the  son  of  Eurddyl,  a  daughter 
of  Pepiau,  the  son  of  £rb,  a  regulus  of  the  district  of  Erging.  His  father's 
name,  however,  is  not  there  mentioned.  From  the  similarity  of  the  names, 
Pepiau,  Papai,  and  Pabiali,  it  has  been  conjectured  that  the  above  Pepiau, 
and  Pabiali  or  Papcd,  the  son  of  Brychan,  were  the  same  person,  which  would 
make  St.  Dubricius  to  be  a  great-grandson  of  Br^xhan;  but  would  place 
rather  too  great  a  distance  between  the  respective  eras.  Whatever  relationship, 
if  any,  that  Dubricius  bore  to  Brychan,  it  is  clear  that  his  mother  could  not 
have  been  the  daughter  of  Meyrig,  the  son  of  Tewdrig;  as  it  can  be  satisfac- 
torily proved  that  Meyrig  died  in  675,  at  the  age  of  90,  and  that  St.  Dubri- 
cius was  bom  in  475,  consecrated  bishop  in  505,  and  died  in  560,  aged  85 
years. 

« In  North  Wales. 

'  Ilentlnnd,  or  Ilcnllan  Dyvrig,  on  the  Wye,  in  Herefordshire. 


520  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

7.  Gwladys,  wife  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Glywys,  the  son  of 
Tegid,  and  mother  of  St.  Gattwg  of  the  college  of  St.  GennanuB. 

8.  Nevyn,  who  had  been  the  wife  of  Oynvarch,  the  son  of 
Meirchion  GUI,  the  son  of  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  the  son  of  Cenau,  the 
son  of  Goel  Godebog,  and  mother  of  Urien,  the  son  of  Cyn- 
varch,  called  Urien  Bheged,  king  of  Rheged^  which  is  Gower, 
Kidwelj,  Gamwyllion,  Gantrev  Bychan,  and  Is  Gennen. 

9.  Gwawr,  the  daughter  of  Brjchan,  was  wife  of  Elidir  Ljdan- 
wyn,  and  mother  of  Llywarch  Hen,  a  knight  of  the  Bound  Table, 
in  Arthnr'^s  palace,  in  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk. 

10.  Eleri,  who  was  wife  to  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wled- 
ig,  and  mother  of  Sandde,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  father  of  St. 
David  of  Menevia. 

11.  Eluned,  the  daughter  of  Brychan.    In  Mold,  in  Ystrad  Alan. 

12.  Gwrgon,  the  wife  of  Gadrod  Galchvynydd,  lord  of  Calch- 
vynydd,  which  is  Dunstable,  in  England. 

13.  Envail.  Her  church  is  in  Merthyr  Envail,  where  she  was 
slain  by  the  pagan  Saxons. 

14.  Bhiengan.  Her  church  is  in  Maelienydd,^  (Bhiengar  in 
another  book.) 

15.  Goleuddydd.     Her  church  is  in  Llanysgin,  in  Gwent. 

16.  Geinwen.     She  has  a  church  in  Anglesey. 

1 7.  Genedlon.     In  Mynydd  y  Gymraod.^ 

18.  Gwen,  the  daughter  of  Brychan.  Her  church  is  in  Tal- 
garth,' where  she  was  slain  by  the  pagan  Saxons. 

19.  Gwawrddydd,  wife  of  Gadell  Deymllwg,  and  mother  of 
St.  Gyngen,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deymllwg. 

20.  Tybie.     Her  church  is  Llandybie  in  Ystrad  Towy. 

21.  Glydai.     Her  church  is  in  Eralyn. 

22.  Tudvyl.  She  is  a  saint  in  Merthyr  Tudvyl  in  Glamorgan- 
shire, where  she  was  slain  by  the  pagan  Saxons,  while  she  was 
there  holding  intercourse  with  her  father  who  was  an  aged  man, 
and  her  brothers  there  with  her  visiting  her  father,  when  the  pagan 
Saxons  and  Gwyddelian  Picts  rushed  upon  the  place,  and  Bhun 
Dremrudd,  the  son  of  Brychan,  was  there  slain;  and  Nevydd,  the 

1  In  Radnorshire. 

'  **  It  does  not  appear  where  this  mountain  is  situated,  but  horn  the  aamci- 
ation  of  Cenedlon,  Cymorth,  and  their  sister  Clydai,  it  may  be  looked  for  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Newcastle  Emlyn." — Rees's  Welsh  Saints. 

«  In  Breconshire.  The  name  in  Ecton  is  spelt  Gwendeline;  doubtless 
originally,  Gwenddolcn. 


THE   BRITISH    SAINTS.  521 

son  of  Bhun,  who  was  a  beardless  lad,  being  roused  by  seeing  his 
father  slain,  collected  men  to  him  and  routed  his  enemies.  Tudvyl, 
the  daughter  of  Brychan,  was  the  wife  of  Cynghen,  the  son  of  Ca- 
dell  Deymllwg,  and  mother  of  Brochwel  Ysgithrog. 

23.  Tydeu.     She  is  a  saint  in  Ogwr  chapel. 

24.  Tanglwst,  the  wife  of  Gwrnnog,  the  son  of  Gadell,  the  son 
of  Cawrdav,  the  son  of  Garadoc  Veirchvras. 

25.  Arianwen,  the  daughter  of  Brychan,  wife  of  lorwerth  Hir- 
vlawdd,  the  son  of  Tegonwy,  the  son  of  Teon,  the  son  of  Gwineu 
da  i  Vreuddwyd,  of  the  lineage  of  Beli  Mawr;  king  of  the  Island 
of  Britain. 

26.  Corth,  the  daughter  of  Brychan;  it  is  not  known  where  her 
church  is.  She  was  the  wife  of  Brynach  Wyddel  [the  Gwydd- 
elian;]  these  are  her  children;  namely: — 

1,  Q^rwyn,  the  son  of  Brynach  Wyddel,  and  Corth  the  daughter 
of  Brychan  Brycheiniog. 

2.  Mwyncn,   "I    The  daughters  of  Brynach  Wyddel  and  Corth, 


2.  Mwyncn,   "I    The  daughters  of  Brynach 

3.  Gwenan,     V     the  daughter  of  Brychan. 

4.  Gwenlliw,  j 


Brynach  Wyddel  came  with  Brychan  to  this  Island,  and  was 
his  confessor.  Saint  Dubricius'^s  college  at  Weeg  on  the  Wye  was 
endowed  by  Brychan  Brycheiniog. 

Saint  Nevydd,  the  son  of  Bhun  Dremrudd,  the  son  of  Brychan 
Brycheiniog. 

Nevydd,  the  son  of  Nevydd  ail,  the  son  of  Bhun  Dremrudd. 

Tewdwr  Brycheiniog,  the  son  of  Nevydd,  the  son  of  Nevydd 
ail,  the  son  of  Bhun  Dremrudd,  the  son  of  Brychan  Brycheiniog. 

Andras,  the  son  of  Bhun  Dremrudd,  the  son  of  Brychan;  his 
church  is  Llanandras,  in  the  diocese  of  Teilo,  of  LlandaiT.  And 
this  is  what  is  known  of  those  of  the  lineage  of  Brychan  Bry- 
cheiniog, who  were  saints. 

Here  now  follows  an  account  of  the  lineage  of  Cunedda  Wledig, 
which  is  that  of  Cool  Godebog. 

Cunedda  Wledig,  the  son  of  Edcym,  the  son  of  Padam  Beisrudd, 
the  son  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  lago,  the  son  of  Genedoc,  the  son  of 
Cain,  the  son  of  Gwrgain,  the  son  of  Doli,  the  son  of  Gwrddoli, 
the  son  of  Dwvn,  the  son  of  Gorddwvn,  the  son  of  Enwerydd,  the 
son  of  Onwedd,  the  son  of  Dwj'wc,  the  son  of  Bhychwain,  the  son  of 
Owain,  the  son  of  Avallech,  the  son  of  Avlech,  the  son  of  Lludd, 
the  son  of  Beli   Mawr,  emperor  of  the  Island  of  Britain.     The 

3x 


522  THE    BRITISH    SAINTS. 

mother  of  Cunedda  Wledig  was  Gwawl,  the  daughter   of  Oocl 
Godebog. 

Cunedda  Wledig  sent  sons  to  Gwynedd  against  the  Gwjddel- 
ians  which  came  with  Serigi  the  Gwyddelian  to  Anglesey,  and 
other  places,  and  had  taken  the  greatest  portion  of  that  country 
from  the  inhabitants  where  there  were  no  princes  over  tliem;  and 
the  sons  of  Cunedda  led  the  Cymry  and  expelled  the  G^wyddelians 
from  the  country,  and  slew  them,  making  prisoners  of  such  as  had 
their  lives  spared;  then  the  men  of  Gwynedd  gave  those  princes 
possession  of  the  lands  which  they  had  won;  namely: — 

Tybiawn,  the  son  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  won  the  Cantref,  routing 
the  Gwyddelians,  and  in  that  battle  he  was  slain,  and  the  nobles  of 
the  country  conferred  the  sovereignty  on  Meirion  his  son,  and 
he  was  called  Meirion  of  Meirionydd. 

Arwystl,  the  son  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  won  a  district  which  was 
given  him,  which  he  called  after  his  own  name,  and  he  himself  is 
called  Arwystl  of  Arwystli. 

Ceredig,  the  son  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  expelled  the  foreigners 
from  the  Cantref  of  Tyno  Coch,  and  received  it  as  an  inheritance, 
and  called  it  Ceredigion,  after  his  own  name,  and  he  himself  is 
called  Ceredig  of  Ceredigion. 

Dunawd,  the  son  of  Cimedda  Wledig,  delivered  the  commot  of 
Ardudwy,  in  Eivionydd,  and  received  it  as  a  possession,  and  called 
it  Dinodyng,  after  his  own  name,  and  he  is  called  Dunawd 
Dinodyng. 

Edeym,  the  son  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  delivered  the  country  which 
he  called  Edeymion,  from  his  own  name,  of  which  he  received 
possession,  and  he  is  called  Edeym  of  Edeymion. 

Mael,  the  son  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  had  Maelienydd,  which  he 
named  after  his  own  name,  and  he  is  called  Mael  of  Maelienydd, 
in  remembrance  of  his  act  in  delivering  that  country. 

Dogvael,  the  son  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  had  the  country  called 
after  him  Dogveilyng,  and  he  is  called  Dogvael  of  Dogveilyng. 

Bhufawn,  the  son  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  had  the  Cantref  which 
after  him  was  called  Bhyvoniog,  and  he  is  called  Bhuvawn  of 
Bhuvoniog,  and  also  Bhun  Hael  [the  generous]  of  Bhuvoniog, 
because  he  was  the  most  generous  man  in  Wales,  in  his  times. 

Oswal,  the  son  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  had  the  country  called  after 
him  Osweilyng,  and  he  is  called  Oswal  of  Osweiliawn,  and  that 
country  is  the  town  of  Oswestry  and  its  precints. 

Clwyd,  the  son  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  had  the  Vale  of  Clwyd. 


THE   BRITISH    SAINTS.  523 

Gjnir,  Meilir,  and  Meigir,  the  sons  of  Gwron,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig,  went  with  Caswallawn  Lawhir,  their  cousin,  to 
expel  the  Owyddelian  Picts  from  the  Island  of  Anglesey,  where 
they  had  fled  from  the  sons  of  Gunedda,  and  had  established 
themselves  in  that  Island;  and  after  furious  fighting  they  drove 
the  Gwyddelians  out  of  Anglesey,  and  Gaswallawn  Lawhir 
slew  Serigi  Wyddel  there,  with  his  own  hand.  That  Serigi 
was  the  prince  of  the  Gwyddelian  Picts,  which  had  govern- 
ed Gwynedd  from  the  time  of  the  Emperor  Mi^ximus.  And  after 
expelling  the  foreigners  from  Anglesey,  the  Gymry  took  courage 
and  drove  them  out  of  every  part  of  Gwynedd,  and  none  of  them 
remained  in  the  country  except  such  as  were  made  captives 
for  ever.  And  thus  did  Gunedda  Wledig  obtain  the  sovereignty 
of  Wales,  and  his  sons  the  lands  before  mentioned. 

And  Gaswallawn  Lawhir,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig,  founded  a  church  to  God  in  the  place  where  he 
obtained  a  victory  over  his  enemies,  and  called  it  Llan  y  Gwyddyl 
[the  church  of  the  Gwyddelians,]  and  which  is  in  Anglesey,  and 
now  called  Gerrig  y  Gwyddyl  [the  Stones^  of  the  Gwyddelians.] 

Einion,  the  King,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Gunedda 
Wledig.     His  church  is  in  Lleyn,  of  which  country  he  was  king. 

Llyr  Myrini,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Gimedda 
Wledig.  His  churches  are  Llan  Llyr,  in  Gwrthryniawn,  another 
in  Dyved,  and  another  in  Geredigion. 


1.  Gwynn,  son  of  Nudd^ 

2.  Garâdoc  Vreichvras, 

3.  Gwallog,  son  of  Lleenog, 

1.  Gawrdav, 

2.  Gadvarch, 

3.  Maethlu, 

4.  Tangwn, 


The  sons  of  Llyr  Myrini  by 
Dyvanwedd,  daughter  of  Am- 
lawdd  Wledig,  their  mother. 
The  sons  of  Garadoc  Vreichvras,  the  son  of  Llyr 
Myrini,  the  son  of  Meirchion  Gûl,  the  son  of 
Gorwst  Ledlwm,  the  sou  of  Cenau,  the  son  of 
Goel  Godebog. 
Gathan,  the  son  of  Gawrdav,  the  son  of  Garadoc  Vreichvras. 
Iddog  Gom  Prydain,  the  son  of  Garadoc  Vreichvras. 
Medrod,  the  son  of  Gawrdav,  the  son  of  Garadoc  Vreichvras. 
Dyvnog,  the  son  of  Medrod,  the  son  of  Gawrdav,  the  son  of 
Garadoc  Vreichvras. 

Gadell,  the  son  of  Gawrdav,  the  son  of  Garadoc  Vreichvras. 

»  Query.  Whether  there  be  a  circle  of  Stones  there  now  ?— lolo  Morgan  wg. 
«  Gwyn,  the  son  of  Nudd ;  and  G  wallawg,  the  mm  of  Lleenog,  were  grand- 
sons of  Llyr  Myrini, 


524 


THE   BRITISH   SAINTS. 


Elgud,  the  son  of  Gadvarch,  the  son  of  Garadoc  Vreichyras. 

Gynhaval,  the  son  of  Elgud,  the  son  of  Gadvarch,  the  son  of 
Garadoc  Vreichvras. 

Gwjran,  the  son  of  Brwyno,  the  son  of  Gorth  Oadeir  of  the 
Vale  of  Dyvnog,  the  son  of  Medrod,  the  son  of  Cawrdav,  the  son 
of  Garadoc  Vreichvras. 

GoUen,^  the  son  of  Owynnog,  the  son  of  Gadell,  the  son  of  Gawr- 
dav,  the  son  of  Garadoc  Vreichvras. 


1.  Saint  Tyvrydog, 

2.  Dihacr,  in  Bodvari, 

3.  Tyrnog,  in  Dyffryn  Glwyd, 

4.  Tudur, 
6.  Twrog, 


These  are  Brothers;  and 
sons  of  Arwystl  Glofiỳ  the 
son  of  Owain  Danwyn,  the 
son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the 
son  of  Gunedda  Wledig ;  by 


Tywynwedd,  the  daughter  of  Amlawdd  Wledig,  their  mother. 
They  are  own  brothers  to  Gwynn  the  son  of  Nudd,  Caradoc 
Vreichvras,  and  Gwallog  the  son  of  Lleenog. 

Marchell,  the  daughter  of  Arwystl  Gloff,  ut  8upr<i^  and  Tywyn- 
wedd, the  daughter  of  Amlawdd  Wledig,  her  mother. 

Helig,  the  son  of  Glannog,  the  son  of  Gwgan  Gleddyvrudd,  the 
son  of  Garadoc  Vreichvras,  the  son  of  Llyr  Myrini,  the  son  of 
Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

1.  Gwyar, 

2.  Gelynin, 

3.  Eurien,  of  Goed  Helig, 

4.  Gwynwn, 

5.  Boda, 

6.  Bodwan, 

7.  Bedwas, 

8.  Brendav, 

9.  Rychwyn, 

10.  Brothen, 

11.  Elgyvarch, 

12.  Peris, 


Twelve  sons  of  Helig,  the  son 
of  Glannog,  of  Tyno  Helig  in 
the  North ;  whose  lands  the 
sea  overwhelmed,  and  they  be- 
came Saints  in  Bangor  Vawr  in 
Maclor;  and  afterwards  some  of 
them  went  to  Bangor  Gadvan, 
in  Bardsey.  They  lived  in  the 
time  of  Bhun  the  son  of  Mael- 
gwn.^ 


1  A  very  romantic  Life  of  St.  Collen,  in  Welsh,  is  in  existence»  and  will  be 
published  in  the  forthcoming  volume  of  the  Lives  of  the  British  Sunts. 

^  Traeth  Lavan,  the  tract  of  sands  on  the  coast  of  Caernarvonshire  from  the 
river  Conwy  to  the  Menai  Strait,  is  all  that  now  remains  of  the  low  land, 
called  Tyno  Helig,  that  suffered  a  similar  catastrophe  to  that  which  de- 
stroyed Cantrev  y  Gwaelod.  Llys  Helig  ap  Glanog,  is  the  name  of  a  small 
of  foul  ground,  near  the  entrance  of  the  river  Conwj-. 


THE   BRITISH    SAINTS.  525 

St.  David,  the  son  of  Sandde,  the  son  of  Gedig,  the  sod  of 
Ceredig,  the  son  of  Gonedda  Wledig.  The  mother  of  St.  David 
was  Nonn  the  Blessed,  the  daughter  of  Gynjr  of  Gaer  Gawoh,  in 
Menevia;  which  Gynyr  gave  lands  to  St.  David  at  Menevia,  where 
he  founded  a  Monastery,  and  to  which  place  he  removed  the 
Archbishopric  from  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk,  where  St.  David  had 
previously  been  Archbishop. 

Teilo,  the  son  of  Essyllt,  the  son  of  Hydwn,  was  a  king  in  Ire- 
land, he  was  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Padam,  the  son  of  Gorwn,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig. 

Dogvael,  the  son  of  Ithel,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gun- 
edda Wledig. 

Meirion,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Edem,  the  son  of  Beli,  the  son  of  Rhun,  the  son  of  Maelgwn 
Gwynedd,  the  son  of  Gaswallawn  Lawhir,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth, 
the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Tyssul,  the  son  of  Gorwn,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of  Gun- 
edda Wledig. 

Gadwalader  the  Blessed,  king  of  the  Isle  of  Britain,  the  son  of 
Gadwallawn,  the  son  of  Gadvan,  the  son  of  lago,  the  son  of  Beli, 
the  son  of  Bhun,  the  son  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  the  son  of  Gas- 
wallawn Lawhir,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Gunedda 
Wledig.  In  Borne  he  lies  buried,  and  when  his  bones  are  brought 
from  thence  to  the  Isle  of  Britain,  then  shall  the  Gymry  regain 
their  crown  and  sovereignty. 

Garannog,  the  son  of  Gorwn,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig, 

Gyngar,  the  son  of  Grarthwg,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig;  his  church  is  at  Llandocheu  Vawr,  where  he 
had  a  college. 

Gyndeym,  the  son  of  Gyngar,  the  son  of  Garthwg,  the  son  of 
Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Avan  Buallt,  the  son  of  Gedig,  the  son  of  Geredig,  the  son  of 
Gunedda  Wledig.  The  mother  of  Avan  Buallt  was  Tegvedd, 
the  daughter  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  Cadell  Deymllwg. 

Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Gyngar,  the  son  of  Garthwg,  the  son  of 
Geredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig 

Cynvelyn,  the  son  of  Bleiddyd,  the  son  of  Meirion,  the  son  of 
Tybiawu,  the  son  of  Gunedda  \Vledig. 

Eurgain,  the  daughter  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd,  the  son  of  Gas- 


526  THE   BRITISH    SAINTS. 

wallawn  Lawhir,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the  son  of  Gunedd» 
Wledig. 

Brothan,  the  son  of  Seirioel,  the  son  of  Ussa,  the  son  of  Ceredig, 
the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Sandde,  the  son  of  Geredig^  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig.     He 
was  father  of  Saint  David. 

Tejrmog,  the  son  of  Gorwn,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Doged,  the  son  of  Oeredig,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Gwenaseth^  wife  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  the  daughter  of  Rhu- 
vawn  Rhuvoniog,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Meirìon^  the  son  of  Owain  Danwyn,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth, 
the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Seirioel,  the  son  of  Owain  Danwyn,  the  son  of  Einion  Yrth,  the 
son  of  Gunedda  Wledig.  He  was  a  saint  in  the  college  of  Geiv 
manus,  and  afterwards,  Einion  King  of  Llejn  founded  a  college 
in  Penmen,  over  which  college  he  placed  his  brother^  Seirioel  as 
Principal,  and  gave  lands  and  property  thereto,  and  the  men  of 
Llychlyn'  flocked  to  the  college  of  Seirioel  to  acquire  useful  and 
religious  knowledge.  The  college  of  Seirioel,  and  the  college  of 
Beuno,  were  the  most  celebrated  for  learning  of  all  the  colleges  in 
the  country  of  Gwynedd. 

Gynydyn,  the  son  of  Bleiddyd,  the  son  of  Meirion  Meirionydd, 
the  son  of  Tybiawn,  the  son  of  Gunedda  Wledig;  he  was  a  confessor 
in  the  college  of  bishop  Padam,  at  Llanbadam  Vawr,  in  Geredig^ 
ion,  where  he  lies  buried. 

The  most  celebrated  institution  of  the  family  of  Cunedda 
Wledig,  was  the  college  of  Saint  Dubricius  the  Archbishop,  at  the 
Weeg  on  the  Wye,  which  was  plundered  by  the  pagan  Saxons, 
after  which  was  founded  another  college  in  its  stead  at  Menevia, 
and  another  at  Tỳ  Gwyn  ar  Dav,  in  Dyved. 

Here  follow  the  names  of  the  saints  of  the  lineage  of  Coel 
Godebog,  king  of  the  Isle  of  Britain. 

Goel  Godebog,  king  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  the  son  of  Teg- 
van,  the  son  of  Deheufraint,  the  son  of  Tudbwyll,  the  son  of 


I  ''There  is  some  mistake  here,  as  Einion,  king  of  Lleyn,  was  an  uncle, 
father's  brother,  to  Seiriol."-^/aiò  Morganvsg, 

*  See  page  413.  The  term  "Men  of  Llychlyn"  would  also  seem  to  apply 
to  the  inhabitants  of  the  Isle  of  Man,  and  the  Western  Islands  of  Scotland. 


THE   BRITISH   SAINTS.  527 

EurboD,  the  son  of  Gradd,  the  son  of  Rhuddvedel,  the  son  of 
Rhydeyrn,  the  son  of  Eiddigant,  the  son  of  Eurdejrm,  the  son  of 
Einydd^  the  son  of  Ennos,  the  son  of  EnddoUu,  the  son  of 
Avallech,  the  son  of  Avlech,  the  son  of  LIudd,  the  son  of  Beli 
Mawr,  the  son  of  Mynogan,  the  son  of  Oai,  the  son  of  Por,  the  son 
of  Sawel  Benisel,  the  son  of  Rhydderch,  the  son  of  Rhodawr,  the 
son  of  Eidal^  the  son  of  Arthvael^  the  son  of  Seissyllt^  the  son  of 
Owain,  the  son  of  Caffo^  the  son  of  Bleiddyd,  the  son  of  Meinon, 
the  son  of  Gorwst,  the  son  of  Clydno,  the  son  of  Clydog,  the  son  of 
Ithel,  the  son  of  Unen,  the  son  of  Andryw,  the  son  of  Oeraint, 
the  son  of  Por,  the  son  of  Goel,  the  son  of  Gadell,  the  son  of  Cer* 
aint,  the  son  of  Elydnog,  the  son  of  Morydd,  the  son  of  Dan,  the 
son  of  Seissyllt,  the  son  of  Cyhelyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan  Varvdrwch, 
the  son  of  Beli,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Moehnud,  the  son  of  Dym- 
varth  Hen,  the  son  of  Prydain,  the  son  of  Aedd  Mawr,  the  first 
sole  monarch  of  the  Isle  of  Britain. 

Elen,  the  saint,  daughter  of  Goel  Godebog,  discovered  the  Bles- 
sed Gross,  where  it  had  been  concealed  under  a  heap  of  stones  by 
the  unbelieving  Jews.  She  was  the  wife  of  the  Emperor  Gonstan- 
tine,  who  built  the  city  of  Gonstantinople  for  the  protection  of  those 
who  believed  in  God  and  Christ  his  Son. 

Gwawl,  the  daughter  of  Coel  Godebog,  was  the  wife  of  Edeym, 
the  son  of  Padarn  Beisrudd,  and  mother  of  Gunedda  Wledig. 

Genau^  the  son  of  Coel  Godebog,  is  a  saint  of  Garth  Mathrin. 

Saint  Cynllo,  the  son  of  Mor,  the  son  of  Cenau,  the  son  of  Coel 
Godebog.     His  church  is  in  Ceredigion. 

Mor,  the  son  of  Cenau,  the  son  of  Coel  Godebog,  at  Llanvor 
in  Penllyn  Gwynedd. 

1.  Eliver  Gosgorddvawr,  ^    Sons  of  Arthwys,  the  son 

2.  Ceidiaw,  the  son  of  Arthwya.  Lof  Mor,  the  son  of  Cenau, 

3.  Pabo  Post  Prydain.  J  the  son  of  Coel  Godebog. 

1.  Sawyl  Beuuchcl,  ^ 

2.  Dunawd  Vawr,  /      Children  of  Pabo  Post 

3.  Arddun  Bcnasgell,  wife  of  Ç         Prydain. 

Brochwel  Ysgithros:.        ^ 

1 .  Deiniol,      ^    Sons  of  Dunawd  Vawr,  the  son  of  Pabo  Post 

2.  Cynwyl,      v  Prydain;  and  the  celebrated  Institution  of  these 

3.  Gwarthan,  J  three  brothers,  under  protection  of  the  race  of 
Cadell  Deyrullwg,  was  Bangor  Vawr  in  Maelor,  on  tlie  banks  of 
the  Dee,  and  there  they  were  Principals. 

Pabo  Post  Prydain  was  a  king  in  the  North.   He  was  driven 


528  THE   BRITISH   SAINTS. 

from  hîs  country  by  the  Gwyddelian  Picts,  and  came  to  Wales, 
where  he  had  lands  given  him  by  Cyngen  Deymllwg,  the  son  of 
Cadell  Deymllwg,  and  by  his  son,  Brochwel  Ysgithrog;  and  Dnn- 
awd,  son  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  bestowed  lands  npon  that 
college. 

Deiniol^  the  son  of  Deiniol  the  second,  the  son  of  Danawd,  the 
son  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  was  a  saint  at  the  Bangor  of  Maelor, 
upon  the  destruction  of  which  he  went  to  Gwynedd  uwch  Conwy, 
where  he  was  engaged  in  establishing  the  college  of  Bangor  Vawr, 
in  Arllechwedd,  called  Bangor  Deiniol ;  this  was  in  the  time  of 
Gadwalader  the  Blessed,  who  bestowed  lands  upon  that  college; 
after  which  saint  Elvod,  bishop  of  Gaer  Gybi  [Holyhead,]  remoyed 
his  palace  to  Bangor  Deiniol,  where  he  became  Archbishop  over 
the  whole  of  Gwynedd. 

Saint  Dwywe,  the  daughter  of  Gwallog,  the  son  of  Lleenog,  the 
son  of  Llyr  Myrini,  the  son  of  Meirchion  Gûl,  the  son  of  Oorwst 
Ledlwm,  the  son  of  Oenau,  the  son  of  Coel  Godebog;  she  ivas 
the  wife  of  Dunawd  Vawr,  the  son  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain. 

Madoc  Morvryn,  the  son  of  Morydd,  the  son  of  Mor,  the  son  of 
Genau,  the  son  of  Coel  Godebog;  was  a  saint  of  the  college  of 
Illtyd. 

Elaeth  the  King,  the  son  of  Meyrig,  the  son  of  Idno,  the  son  of 
Meirchion  Gûl,  the  son  of  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  the  son  of  Cenan,  the 
son  of  Coel  Godebog,  was  a  saint  in  Bangor  Seirioel;  his  mother 
was  Onnen  Grec,  the  daughter  of  Gwallog,  the  son  of  Lleenog, 
Earl  of  Shrewsbury. 

Urien  Rheged,  the  King  of  Bheged,  the  district  between  the 
Tawy  and  the  Towy,  the  son  of  Cynvarch,  the  son  of  Meirchion 
GUI,  the  son  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  the  son  of  Cenau,  the  son  of  Coel 
Godebog.  The  kingdom  of  Bheged  was  Gower,  and  Kidwely, 
and  Carnwyllion,  and  Cantrcf  Bychan,  and  Is  Cennen;  where 
Uri^n,  and  the  grandchildren  of  Cunedda  Wledig,  and  the  sons  of 
Ceredig,  drove  the  Irish  out  of  that  country. 

Nidan,  the  son  of  Gwrvyw,  the  son  of  Pasgen,  the  son  of  Cyn- 
varch, the  son  of  Meirchion  Gûl;  he  was  confessor  to  the  saints  at 
the  Bangor  of  Penmon.     His  church  is  in  Anglesey. 

Cynvarch,  the  son  of  Meirchion  Gûl,  founded  a  church  in 
Maelor,  called  Llangynvarch,  which  was  destroyed  by  the  pagan 
Saxons,  at  the  time  ofthe  battle  of  Bangor  Orchard. 

Cyndeym  Grarthwys,  the  son  of  Owain,  the  son  of  Urien 
Rheged,  the  son  of  Cynvarch,  the  son  of  Meirchion  Gûl,  the  son 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  529 

of  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  the  son  of  Cenau,  the  son  of  Goel  (Jodebog;  he 
was  the  first  bishop  at  Bangor  Asaph,  now  called  Llanelwy.  The 
mother  of  Cyndeym  was  Dwywe,  the  daughter  of  Llewddyn 
Llayddog,  of  Ynys  Eiddin  in  the  North. 

Saint  Tyvodwg,  the  son  of  Gwilfyw,  the  son  of  Marchan,  the 
son  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Pill,  the  son  of  Cervyr,  the  son  of  Meilir 
Meilirion,  the  son  of  Gwron,  the  son  of  Goel  Godebog. 

Saint  Tudwg,  the  son  of  Saint  Tyvodwg,  the  son  of  G¥rilfyw. 

Grwst,  the  son  of  Gwaith  Hengaer,  the  son  of  Elfin,  the  son  of  Uri- 
en,  the  son  of  Gynvarch,  ut  supra.  The  mother  of  Grwst  was  Euro- 
nwy,  the  daughter  of  Glydno  Eiddin,  the  son  of  Gynwyd  Gynwydion. 

Cynwyd  Gynwydion,  the  son  of  Gynvelyn,  the  son  of  Cku^hwys, 
the  son  of  Morydd,  the  son  of  Mor,  the  son  of  Genau,  the  son  of 
Goel  Godebog.     His  chorch  is  in  Morganwg. 

1.  Gludno  Eiddin, 


2.  Gynan  Gevenhir, 

3.  Gadrod  Galchvynydd^ 

4.  Gynvelyn  Drwsgl, 


The  sons  of  Gynwyd  Gynwydion» 
who  were  disciples  of  Gattwg,  in 
the  college  of  Germanus. 

Llywarch  Hon,  the  son  of  Elidir  Lydanwyn,  the  son  of  Meirch- 
ion  GUI,  the  son  of  Gorwst  Ledlwm,  the  son  of  Genau,  the  son  of 
Goel  Godebog. 

Ysgwn,  the  son  of  Llywarch  Hen. 

Buan,  the  son  of  Ysgwn,  the  son  of  Llywarch  Hen. 

Dwywc,  the  son  of  Llywarch  Hen.     His  church  is  in  Ewyas. 

Gadell,  the  son  of  Urien  Voeddoc,  the  son  of  Rhun  Rhion,  the 
son  of  Llywarch  Hen.  His  church  is  Llangadell,  in  Morganwg, 
at  the  college  of  Gattwg. 

Mechydd,  the  son  of  Sandde  Bryd  Angel,  the  son  of  Llywarch 
Hen. 

Talhaiam  Gaerlleon,  of  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk,  the  son  of  Grarth- 
wys,  the  son  of  Morydd,  the  son  of  Genau,  the  son  of  Goel  Gode- 
bog. Talhaiam  was  confessor  to  Emrys  Wledig;  and  after  Emrys 
was  slain,  he  became  an  hermit  in  the  place  where  his  church  is,  in 
Rhyvoniog. 

Tangwn,  the  son  of  Talhaiam,  of  Gaerlleon;  his  church  is  in 
Somersetshire,  and  its  English  name  is  Tangyntwn.  [qu?  Taunton.] 

Saint  Asaph,  the  son  of  Sawyl  Benuchel,  the  son  of  Pabo  Post 
Prydain.     The  first  bishop  of  Bangor  Asaph.^ 

*  St.  Asaph  was  the  second  bishop  of  Llanelwy,  called  after  him,  the  Dio- 
cese of  St.  Asaph.     He  succeeded  St.  Kentigem,  the  founder  of  that  see. 

3  1 


530  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

Llamined  Angel,  the  son  of  Pasgen,  the  son  of  ürîen  Rheged. 
Mor,  the  son  of  Pasgen,  the  son  of  Urien  Rheged.     He  lies 
buried  in  Bardsey. 

1.  Gwrgi,      1       Saints  of  Bangor  Illtyd,  and  sons  of  Eliyer 

2.  Peredur,  |  Gosgorddvawr,  the  son  of  Arthwys,  the  son 
of  Mor,  the  son  of  Morydd,  the  son  of  Oenau,  the  son  of  Cod 
Gobebog, 

1.  Gwenddolau, )      The  sons  of  Ceidio,  the  son  of  Arthwys,  the 

2.  Nudd,  >  son  of  Myr,  the  son  of  Morydd,  the  son  of  Ce- 

3.  Gov,  )  nau,  the  son  of  Coel  Godebog,  saints  of  Bangor 
Illtyd. 

Saint  Llawdden,  of  Ynys  Eiddin,  in  the  North. 

Cedwyn,  the  son  of  Gwron  Meigwron,  the  sod  of  Peredur,  the 
son  of  Eliver  Gosgorddvawr;  and  Madryn,  the  daughter  of  Vorti- 
mer  the  Blessed  was  his  mother. 

Elian  Ceimiad,  the  son  of  Gallgu  Rieddoc,  the  son  of  Cardydwg, 
the  son  of  Cyngu,  the  son  of  Ysbwys,  the  son  of  Gadrod  Caleb- 
vynydd,  the  son  of  Oynwyd  Cynwydion;  his  mother  was  Tenai, 
the  daughter  of  Tewdwr  Mawr. 

Saint  Tegvan,  the  son  of  Cardydwg,  the  son  of  Cyngu,  the  son 
of  Ysbwys,  the  son  of  Cadrod  Calchvynydd ;  and  Tenai,  the  daugh- 
ter of  Tewdwr  Mawr,  was  his  mother. 

Here  are  exhibited  the  saints  descended  from  Cadell  Deymllwg, 
and  those  who  were  before  him  of  the  same  race,  namely : — 

Cadell  Deymllwg,  king  of  Powys,  the  son  of  Pasgen,  the  son  of 
Rhiyddwy,  the  son  of  Rhuddvedel  Vrych,  the  son  of  Cyndeym, 
the  son  of  Gwrtheym  Gwrthenau  QVortigem,]  the  son  of  Rhy- 
deym,  the  son  of  Deheuvraint,  the  son  of  Euddigant,  the  son  of 
Aurdeyrn,  the  son  of  Ennydd,  the  son  of  Ennos,  the  son  of  Enddolan, 
the  son  of  Avallach,  the  son  of  Avlech,  the  son  of  Beli  Mawr. 

Aurdeyrn,  the  son  of  Gwrtheym  Gwrthenau,  was  a  saint  in 
Llan  Edeym,  in  Cibwyr,  where  his  church  is,  and  there  he  lies. 
He  founded  there  a  college  for  three  hundred  saints,  and  which 
was  demolished  by  the  Saxons  in  the  time  of  Cadwalader  the 
Blessed. 

Cyndeym,  the  son  of  Gwrtheym  Gwrthenau,  was  a  saint  in 
Llangyndeyrn  in  Cidweli,  where  his  church  is,  and  where  he  lies 
buried. 

Anna,  the  daughter  of  Gwrthevyr  Fendigaid  [Vortimer  the 
Blessed,]  was  wife  of  Gynyr,  of  Caer  Cktwch  in  Menevia,  and  mo- 
ther of  Nonn  the  Blessed,  the  mother  of  St.  David. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  531 

Madryu,  the  daughter  of  Gwrthevyr  Fendigaid,  was  wife  of 
Ynyr  Gwent. 

Cynhyiddan,  the  son  of  Ynyr  Gwent.  His  mother  was  Madryn, 
the  daughter  of  Gwrthevyr  Fendigaid. 

Tegiwg,  the  daughter  of  Ynyr  Gwent.  Her  mother  was  Mad- 
ryn,  the  daughter  of  Gwrthevyr  Fendigaid. 

Saint  Teon,  the  son  of  Gwinau  da  i  Freuddwyd,  the  son  of  Byr- 
lew,  the  son  of  Bywdeg,  the  son  of  Bhun  Rhuddbakdr,  the  son  of 
Llery,  the  son  of  Casnar  Wledig,  the  son  of  Gloy  w  Gwladlydan, 
the  son  of  LIudd,  the  son  of  Beli  Mawr,  was  a  saint  and  bishop 
in  the  college  of  lUtyd,  and  afterwards  a  bishop  in  Gloucester;  and 
after  that  an  Archbishop  in  London,  from  whence  he  was  driven 
by  the  pagan  Saxons,  and  he  went  to  Armorica. 

Tegonwy,  the  son  of  Teon,  the  son  of  Gwineu  da  i  Freuddwyd, 
ut  supra^  who  was  a  saint  in  Bangor  Illtyd,  and  afterwards  wa>i 
with  Cadvan  and  Deiniol  founding  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey. 

Saint  Llywelyn,  of  Trallwng,  a  saint  of  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey, 
the  son  of  Tegonwy,  the  son  of  Teon,  ut  9upra. 

Gwmerth,  a  saint  of  Trallwng,  the  son  of  Llywelyn,  a  saint  of 
Trallwng,  the  son  of  Tegonwy,  the  son  of  Teon,  tU  supra. 

Saint  Mabon,  the  son  of  Tegonwy,  the  son  of  Teon,  and  brother 
to  Llywelyn,  a  saint  of  Trallwng.     His  church  is  in  Morganwg. 

Cyngen,  the  son  of  Cadell  Deyrnllwg,  gave  property  and  land  to 
Bangor  Vawr,  in  Ma<ilor,  and  that  college  was  tlie  celebrated  en- 
dowment of  the  family  of  Cadell  Deyrnllwg,  and  the  three  sous  of 
Dunawd,  the  son  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain,  were  its  mlers  and  princi- 
pals, namely  Deiniol,  Cynwyl,  and  Gwarthan,  who  had  been  dis- 
ciples in  the  college  of  Cattwg  of  Llancarvau. 

Brochwel  Ysgithrog,  the  son  of  Cyngen,  the  son  of  Cadell 
Deyrnllwg,  king  of  Teymllwg,  that  is  the  land  beyond  the  Deo 
and  Severn.  He  was  slain  in  the  battle  of  Bangor  Orchard,  when 
that  college  was  destroyed  by  the  Saxon  pagans. 

Saint  Tyssilio,  the  son  of  Brochwel  Ysgithrog.  His  church  is 
in  Meivod. 

Mawan,  the  son  of  Cyngen,  the  son  of  Cadell  Deyrnllwg. 

Ystyflîin,  the  son  of  Mawan,  the  son  of  Cyngen,  thtî  son  of  Ca- 
dell Deyrnllwg.     His  church  is  Llanstyffan,  in  Melienydd. 

Cvnan  Garwvn,  the  son  of  Brochwel  Ysíi:itliroíî. 

Selev,  the  son  of  Cynan  Garwyn,  the  son  of  Brochwel  Ysgithrog. 

Dona,  the  son  of  Selev,  the  son  of  Cynan  Garwyn,  the  s(m  of 
Brochwel  Ysgithrog. 


532  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

Enghenedl,  the  son  of  Gynan  Gbirwyn,  the  son  of  Brochwel  Y»- 
githrog. 

Tegvedd,  the  daughter  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  Gadell  Dejmllwg, 
and  wife  of  Cunedda  Wledig.  Her  church  is  in  Ghrent,  inrhere  Ae 
was  slain  by  the  Saxons. 

Gwynlliw,  lord  of  Gwynllwg  in  Morganwg,  the  son  of  OIjtwjb, 
the  son  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deymllwg. 

Saint  Gattwg,  of  Llancarvan,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of 
Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deymllwg.  He  wii 
principal  of  the  college  which  Saint  Germanus,  the  son  of  lUdigias, 
caused  to  be  founded  in  Llancarvan,  in  the  room  of  Saint  Dabridns, 
when  he  was  made  Archbishop  of  Llandaff,  which  college,  together 
with  that  of  lUtyd,  was  founded  by  Saint  G^rmanus  and  Saint  Lv- 
pus,  when  they  came  to  the  Island  to  renovate  the  Ghristian  religion. 

Gammarch,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Olywys,  the  son 
of  Tegid,  u$  sfspra ;  his  church  is  in  Buallt. 

Hy>vgi,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid. 

Beuno,  the  son  of  Hywgi,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  nt  supra,  who 
founded  Bangor  Beuno,  in  Glynog  Vawr  in  Arvon;  and  that  wis 
the  most  celebrated  of  all  the  Bangors  in  Gwynedd  for  knowledge 
and  piety,  and  afterwards  it  was  made  a  Monastery  as  it  is  at 
present. 

Glywys  Gemiw,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Glywys,  the 
son  of  Tegid,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deymllwg;  brother  of  Cattwg  of 
Llancarvan ;  his  church  is  Goed  Gemyw  in  Gwynllwg. 

Saint  Gwodloyw,  the  son  of  Glywys  Gemiw,  was  bishop  in  Llan- 
daff, and  before  that,  a  confessor  to  the  saints  in  the  college  íâ 
Gattwg. 

Gynvyw,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  T^d,  the  son  of  Ga- 
dell Deymllwg,  another  brother  of  Gattwg  of  Llancarvan,  and  a 
saint  of  his  college. 

Gwyddlew,^  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Glywys,  the  son  of 
Tegid,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deymllwg,  another  brother  of  Gattwg, 
and  a  saint  in  his  college. 

Gyvlewyr,  the  son  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Glywys,  another 
brother  of  Gattwg,  and  a  saint  in  his  college. 

Saint  Gannen,  the  daughter  of  Gwyddlew,  the  son  of  Chrynlliw, 
the  son  of  Glywys,  ut  supra. 


1  Evidently  the  some  person  as  Gwodloyw,  here  given  as  ha  brother. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  533 

Saint  Maches,  of  Merthjr  Maches,  where  she  was  slain,  the 
daughter  of  Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid,  and 
sister  of  Cattwg  of  Llancarvan.  Saint  Maches  gave  alms  to  every 
poor  person  who  asked  it;  and  a  pagan  Saxon  went  in  the  guise  of 
a  beggar,  where  he  knew  she  gave  alms,  and  ^stabbed  her  in  the 
breast  with  a  dagger. 

Edeym,  the  son  of  Gwrhydr  Drwm,  the  son  of  Gwrhydrog,  the 
0on  of  G^raint,  the  son  of  Garannog,  the  son  of  Gleddyvgar,  the 
son  of  Cynan  Glodrudd,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deymllwg,  a  saint  of 
the  college  of  Illtyd. 

Eldad,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Garannog,  the  son  of  Gle- 
ddyvgar,  the  son  of  Gynan  Glodrydd,  the  son  of  Gadell  Deym- 
llwg a  saint  of  lUtyd'^s  college,  and  Archbishop  of  Gloucester;  he 
was  slain  by  the  pagan  Saxons.^ 

Ustic,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Garannog,  iU  supra;  he 
and  Dubricius  were  confessors  to  Saint  Germanus,  in  the  college 
of  Germanus. 

The  most  celebrated  establishment  of  the  race  of  Gadell  Deym- 
llwg, was  Bangor  Garmon,  called  Llanveithin  in  Llancarvan,  and 
is  called  Bangor  Gattwg. 

Here  follows  a  notice  of  the  lineage  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  which  was 
sent  to  the  Island  of  Britain  to  restore  Christianity.  That  race 
came  in  two  congregations  to  this  Island;  the  first  came  with  Saint 
Germanus,  and  settled  in  Illtyd''s  college ;  the  second  with  Saint 
Gadvan,  and  fixed  themselves  in  Bardsey. 

The  first  of  the  two  congregations  that  came  to  this  Island,  was 
that  of  Germanus,  a  saint  and  bishop,  son  of  Bidigius,  a  saint  of 
the  land  of  Gaul ;  and  uncle,  mother'^s  brother  to  Emyr  Llydaw ; 
and  in  the  time  of  Gystennyn  Llydaw  he  came  here,  where  he  re- 
mained till  the  time  of  Gwrtheym  Gwrthenau,  after  which  he 
went  to  France  where  he  died.  He  founded  two  colleges  of  saints, 
and  placed  in  them  bishops  and  pious  men,  in  order  that  they 
might  instmct  the  race  of  the  Gymry  in  the  Christian  &ith,  where 
they  had  erred  in  their  doctrine.  He  founded  one  college  in  Llan- 
carvan, and  placed  Dubricius  there  as  principal,  and  he  himself 
was  bishop.  Another  in  the  vicinity  of  Gaerworgom,  where  he 
placed  Illtyd  as  principal,  and  Saint  Lupus  chief  bishop  there. 
After  that  he  placed  bishops  in  Llandaff,  and  made  Dubricius 

>  Sec  Eldad,  in  another  place,  under  BrAn,  the  son  of  Llyr."  lo  o  Morganwg. 


534  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

Archbishop  there,  and  placed  Saint  Cattwg,  the  son  of  Grwjnlliw, 
in  the  college  of  Llancarvan  in  his  stead,  and  appointed  the  Arch- 
bishop of  Llandaff  to  be  his  bishop  there. 

lUtyd  Varchog  [the  knight,]  the  sonof  Bicanuç,  cousin  of  Emjr 
Llydaw;  his  mother  was  Gweryl,  the  daughter  of  Tewdrig  king  of 
Morganwg,  and  he  was  placed  as  principal  of  the  college,  which  the 
Emperor  Theodosius  founded  in  Caerworgom,  where  Patrick,  the 
son  of  Mawon,  was  teaching  the  doctrines  of  Christianity,  before 
that  college  was  destroyed  by  the  Irish,  and  Patrick  carried  off 
captive  to  Ireland. 

Amwn  Ddu,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  was  a  saint  in  IUtyd**8 
college,  where  he  lies  buried. 

Samson,  the  son  of  Amwn  Ddu,  king  of  Grawec,  the  son  of  Em- 
yr Llydaw ;  his  mother  was  Anna,  the  daughter  of  Meyrig,  the 
son  of  Tewdrig,  king  of  Morganwg;  he  was  a  saint  and  bishop  in 
Illtyd'*s  college,  where  he  lies  buried. 

Tathan,  a  saint  of  Bangor  lUtyd,  the  son  of  Amwn  Ddu,  king 
of  Grawec ;  liis  mother  was  Anna,  the  daughter  of  Meyrig,  the 
son  of  Tewdrig.  He  founded  the  church  of  Llandathan  in  Mor- 
ganwg, from  whence  he  went  to  Ynyr  Gwent,  to  establish  a  Ban- 
gor in  Caer  Gwent,  where  ho  became  principal,  and  in  his  old  age 
he  returned  to  the  church  which  he  had  founded  in  Llandatluun, 
where  he  lies  buried. 

Gwyndav,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  was  confessor  in  the  college 
of  Illtyd,  and  afterwards  he  became  principal  of  the  college  of  Du- 
bricius,  in  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk,  and  in  his  old  age  he  went  to 
Bardsey,  where  he  lies  buried.  His  church  is  in  Llanwyndav,  in 
Arvon. 

Meugant,  the  son  of  Gwyndav,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  a 
saint  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  and  afterwards  of  the  college  of  Du- 
bricius,  in  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk;  he  went  in  his  old  age  to  Bardsey, 
where  he  lies  buried;  his  mother  was  Gwenonwy,  the  daughter  of 
Meyrig,  the  son  of  Tewdrig,  king  of  Morganwg  and  Garth  Mathrin. 

Saint  Crallo,  nephew,  brother's  son  to  Illtyd,  came  with  Ger- 
manus  to  this  Island,  and  was  a  saint  in  the  college  of  Illtyd;  he 
founded  a  church  and  a  college  in  Llangrallo,  where  he  lies  buried ; 
his  mother  was  Saint  Canna,  the  daughter  of  Tewdwr  Mawr,  of 
Armorica. 

Saint  Caiiua,  the  daughter  of  Tewdwr  Mawr,  of  Armorica,  and 
mother  of  Saint  Crallo;  her  church  is  in  Llanganna,  in  Mor- 
ganwg. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  535 

Lupus,  saint  and  bishop,  came  to  this  Island  with  Saint  Ger- 
manus,  in  the  time  of  Gystennyn  Fendigaid,  who  is  called  Cys- 
tennyn  Llydaw^,  to  reestablish  the  Christian  faith;  he  founded 
churches  in  Morganwg  which  bear  his  name.  He  was  a  saint  and 
a  bishop  in  the  Bangor  of  Illtyd. 

Hewnyn,  the  son  of  Gwyndav,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  a 
saint  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  and  afterwards  a  bishop  in  Bardsey. 

Tydecho,  the  son  of  Amwn  Ddu,  king  of  Grawec,  the  son  of 
Emyr  Llydaw. 

Pedrwn,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  a  saint  of  lUtyd'^s  college. 

Padarn  [Paternus,]  the  son  of  Pedrwn,  the  son  of  Emyr  Lly- 
daw, a  saint  and  bishop  of  Illtyd'^s  college,  ^nd  afterwards  Arch- 
bishop of  Llanbadam  Vawr,  in  Ceredigion,  where  he  founded  a 
college  of  six  score  saints. 

Hywel,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw;  he  lies  buried  in  the  college 
of  Illtyd. 

Llynab,  the  son  of  Alan,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  was  a 
bishop  in  the  college  of  Illtyd;  and  Archbishop  of  Llandaff.^ 

Lloniaw,  the  son  of  Alan,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw;  a  saint  of 
Illtyd'^s  college,  and  confessor  to  Padarn,  the  bishop  of  Llanbadam 
Vawr. 

Lleuddad,  the  son  of  Alan,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  was  in  the 
college  of  Illtyd,  and  afterward  he  became  a  bishop  in  Bardsey. 
He  was  called  Lleuddad  Llydaw. 

Here  follow  those  who  were  with  Saint  Cadvan,  in  Bardsey. 

Saint  Cadvan,  the  son  of  Eneas  Ledewig,  of  Armorica,  and 
Gwen  Teirbronn,  the  daughter  of  Emyr  Llydaw;  he  was  the 
principal  of  Bangor  Cadvan,  in  Bardsey. 

Padarn,  the  son  of  Pedryn,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  cousin  to 
Cadvan. 

Tydecho,  the  son  of  Arawn  Ddu,  king  of  Grawec,  the  son  of 
Emyr  Llydaw,  cousin  to  Cadvan. 

'  Cy8tennyB  Fendigaid,  or  Cystennyn  Llydaw,  and  Cystennyn  Gomen,  are 
evidently  one  and  the  same  person, — the  reader  is  referred  to  the  Rev.  R. 
Williams's,  "  Biographical  Dictionary  of  Eminent  Welshmen,"  for  several 
particalars  respecting  Cystennyn  Gomeu,  which  were  furnished  hy  one  of 
the  Editors  of  this  work,  and  which  would  assign  a  different  parentage  to  the 
celebrated  King  Arthur  than  that  stated  by  Ab  lolo,  in  page  355.  See  also  the 
the  article  "Arthur,"  in  the  above  work. 

*  Llynab,  or  Lunapeius,  as  before  observed,  was  only  a  suffragan  bbhop  in 
Llandaff.    See  the  Liber  Landavensis. 


536  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

Trynio,  the  son  of  Divwg,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  eoiunn  to 
Gadvan. 

Meilir,  the  son  of  Gwyddno,  the  son  of  Emyr  Lljdaw,  coiuiii  to 
Cadvan. 

Hevnin,  the  son  of  Grwyndav  Hen,  the  son  of  "Emyr  Urdaw, 
cousin  to  Gadvan,  and  his  confessor  in  Bardsey. 

Gynan,  came  with  Gadvan  to  Bardsey,  and  was  his  chancellor 
there. 
Baglan  Llydaw,  the  son  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica. 
Tegai,  the  son  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica. 
Trillo,  the  son  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica. 
Saint  Llechid,  the  daughter  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica. 
Flewin,  the  son  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica. 
Gredivel,  the  son  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica. 
Twrog,  the  son  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica. 
Tanwg,  the  son  of  Ithel  Hael  of  Armorica. 
Their  churches  are — 

Baglan,  in  Morganwg. 

Tygai,  in  Maes  Glassog. 

Llechid,  in  Arllechwedd. 

Tanwg,  in  Ardudwy. 

Twrog,  in  Arvon. 

Gredivel,  in  Pen  Mynydd,  Anglesey. 

Flewin,  in  Anglesey. 

1.  Dervael,    ^      Sons  of  Howel,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  and 

2.  Dwyvael,  V  cousins  to  Gadvan;  they  were  in  the  college  of  111- 

3.  Arthvael,  ^  tyd,  and  afterwards  with  Gadvan  in  the  Bangor 
of  Bardsey. 

Lloniaw,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw;  he  lies  buried  in  Bardsey. 

1 .  Ghristiolus, )    Sons  of  Howel  Vychan,  the  son  of  Howel  Vaig, 

2.  Bhystud,  j  named  Howel  the  knight,  the  son  of  Emyr 
Llydaw. 

The  church  of  Ghristiolus  is  in  Anglesey. 

The  church  of  Bhystud  is  in  Geredigion. 

1.  Dochwy,  2.  Sulien,  3.  Teccwin,  4.  Mael,  6.  Llewin,  6. 
Llynab,  7.  Ethrias ;  natives  of  Armorica,  and  kinsmen  to  Gadvan 
with  whom  they  came  to  Gwynedd^  to  oppose  the  unbelievers; 
and  they  became  saints  at  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey. 

Saint  Ganna,  the  daughter  of  Tewdwr,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw, 
and  wife  of  Gallgu  Bhieddoc,  was  mother  of  Elian  Geimiad,  and 
Saint  Grallo ;  her  church  is  in  Morganwg.     She  had  been  previ- 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  537 

ously  married  to  Sadwrn  the  knight,  cousin  to  Emyr  Llydaw, 
and  brother  to  lUtyd. 

Sadwrn,  the  son  of  Bicanus  the  knight,  came  o^er  in  his  old  age 
with  Gadvan.  A  church  in  Eralyn,  and  another  in  Ystrad  Towy, 
are  dedicated  to  him. 

The  chief  Establishment  of  the  Emperor  Theodosius,  and  Cys- 
tennyn  Llydaw,  was  the  Bangor  of  lUtyd,  where  Bele  rus  of  Borne 
was  conductor,  and  Patrick,  the  son  of  Maewon,  was  principal,  be- 
fore he  was  carried  away  into  captivity  by  the  Irish. 

The  chief  Establishent  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  and  Meyrig  the  son 
of  Tewdrig,  king  of  Morganwg,  was  the  college  of  G^rmanus,  and 
Gattwg  of  Llancarvan;  afterwards  it  belonged  to  the  family  of  Ga- 
dell  Deymllwg. 

The  chief  Establishment  of  Emyr  Llydaw,  and  Einion  the  son 
of  Owain  Danwyn,  and  of  St.  David,  was  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey. 
And  thus  it  ends. 


[From  the  Long  Book  of  Thomas  Trneman^  of  Pantylliwydd,  which  had 
been  one  of  the  Manuscripts  of  Thomas,  the  son  of  Evan,  of  Tre  Biynn.] 
lOLO  MORGANWG'S  TRANSCRIPT. 


I,  Taliesm,  the  son  of  lolo  Morganwg,  extracted  the  foregoing  Genealogies 
and  Pedigrees  from  my  Father's  transcripts,  compiete  as  I  found  them.    1041. 


3  z 


THE  GENEALOGIES  OF  THE  SAINTS  OP  THE 
ISLAND  OF  BRITAIN. 

(From  the  Book  of  Mr.  Cobb,  of  Cardiff.) 

Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  the  first  of  the 
race  of  the  Cymry  who  was  converted  to  the  faith  in  Christ ;  and 
his  family  is  the  most  ancient  of  the  Holy  Families  of  the  Island 
of  Britain,  and  his  church  is  in  Llandaff. 

Arwystli  Hen,  a  man  from  Italy;  he  came  with  Bran,  the  son 
of  Llyr,  to  the  Island  of  Britain  to  teach  the  Christian  faith. 

Saint  Hid,  a  man  of  Israel,  who  came  with  Bran,  the  son  of 
Llyr,  from  Bome  to  teach  the  Christian  faith  to  the  race  of  the 
Cymry. 

Eigen,  the  daughter  of  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Bran,  the  son  of 
Llyr  Llediaith,  wife  of  Sallwg,  lord  of  Gttrth  Mathrin. 

Saint  Lleurwg,  called  Lleuver  Mawr  [the  great  luminary,]  the 
son  of  Coel,  the  son  of  Cyllin,  the  son  of  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Brán^ 
the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  sent  to  Pope  Eleutherius  to  request 
bishops  to  confer  baptism  on  those  of  the  race  of  the  Cymry  who 
should  believe  in  Christ. 

Saint  Medwy,  who  was  a  messenger  for  Lleurwg,  the  son  of 
Coel,  the  son  of  Cyllin,  to  Pope  Eleutherius,  and  he  was  made  a 
bishop  in  Rome,  and  his  church  is  Llanvedwy  in  Morganwg. 

Saint  Elvan,  was  a  messenger  for  Lleurwg  to  Pope  Eleutherius, 
and  was  made  bishop  in  Home.     His  church  is  Glastonbury. 

Saint  Dyvan  was  made  bishop  in  Borne,  in  order  that  he  might 
baptize  such  as  believed  in  Christ  of  the  race  of  the  Cymry.  His 
church  is  Cardiff,  and  that  of  Merthyr  Dyvan  [the  Martyr 
Dyvan,]  where  he  was  slain  by  the  pagans. 

Saint  Fagan  [Faganus,]  a  man  from  Italy,  who  came  as  a 
bishop  into  Wales,  sent  by  the  Pope  Eleutherius,  to  the  church  of 
Llansantfagan'^s. 

Saint  Gwerydd,  the  son  of  Cadwn,  the  son  of  Cenau,  the  son  of 
Eudav,  of  the  family  of  Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son  of  Llyr  Lledi- 
aith.    His  church  is  Llanwerydd,  the  same  as  Saint  Dunawd. 

Saint  Gwynno,  of  the  family  of  Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son  of 
Llyr  Llediaith.     His  church  is  Llanwynno. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  639 

Gadvrawd,  saint  and  bishop,  the  son  of  Gadvan,  the  son  of  Eudar, 
the  son  of  Coel,  the  son  of  Cyllin,  the  son  of  Garadoc,  the  son  of 
Bran  the  Blessed.     His  church  is  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk. 

Saint  Tudwal,  the  son  of  Gorinwr,  the  son  of  Gadvan,  the  son 
of  Eudav,  the  son  of  Goel,  the  son  of  Gyllin,  the  son  of  Bran  the 
Blessed. 

Ivor,  the  son  of  Tudwal,  the  son  of  Gorinwr,  as  above.  His 
church  is  in  England. 

Gwrmael,  the  son  of  Gadvrawd,  bishop,  the  son  of  Gadvan,  the 
son  of  Eudav.     His  church  is  that  of  Gloucester. 

Gadgy  varch,  saint  and  bishop,  brother  of  Gwrmael.  His  cboreh 
is  that  of  Usk. 

Bhystud  Hen,  bishop  of  Gaerlleon  upon  the  Usk,  of  the  familj 
of  Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son  of  LI  jr. 

Saint  Glofian,  of  the  family  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 
His  church  is  in  Dyved. 

Gunedda  Hen,  a  man  of  Israel,  who  came  as  bishop  to  Saint 
Lleurwg,  the  son  of  Goel,  the  son  of  Gyllin,  from  Rome. 

Mabon  Wynn,  the  son  of  Glas,  the  son  of  Glassog,  the  son  of 
Goedwallawn,  the  son  of  Goel,  the  son  of  Gyllin,  the  son  of  Gara- 
doc,  the  son  of  Bran  the  Blessed. 

Glassoc,  the  son  of  Goedwallawn,  ut  supra;  in  North  Wales  he 
lies  buried.     His  church  is  Llanglassoc. 

Melydd,  the  son  of  Gynvelydd,  of  the  family  of  Bran  the  Bles- 
sed.    His  church  is  in  London,  where  he  was  bishop. 

Nyniaw,  saint  and  bishop,  king  of  Gwent  and  Brycheiniog.  His 
church  is  in  the  North. 

Teithvalch,  the  son  of  Nyniaw,  called  also  Tudvwlch,  the  son  of 
Nyniaw.     His  church  is  Llandudvwlch,  in  Gower. 

Tewdric,  the  son  of  Teithvalch,  king  of  Gwent  and  Brycheiniog, 
was  slain  by  the  Gwyddelians,  in  Merthyr  Tewdric,  in  Gwent, 
where  his  church  is. 

Meyrig,  the  son  of  Tewdrig,  was  slain  by  the  Gwyddelians  in 
Geredigion,  where  a  church  was  dedicated  to  him. 

Morgan,  the  son  of  Adras  [Athrwys,]  the  son  of  Meyrig,  the 
son  of  Tewdrig,  formed  a  church  and  college  in  Margam,  where  he 
lies  buried.     He  is  called  Morgan  Morganwg. 

G^raint,  the  son  of  Erbin,  the  son  of  Gystennyn  Gomeu,  lord 
of  G^reinwg.     His  church  is  in  Hereford. 

Gyngar,  lestyn,  Gaw  Gawlwyd,  Selyv;  thesonsof  Geraint,  the 
son  of  Erbin. 


640  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

Caw  Cawlyd,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Erbin»  was  lord  of 
Cwm  Cawlwyd  in  the  North,  and  was  driven  out  of  his  oountij 
by  the  Gwyddelian  Picts,  and  came  to  Twrcelyn,  in  Anglesey;  and 
these  are  the  names  of  Caw's  children  who  were  saints: — 

1.  Garhai;  2.  Gildas;  3.  Cewydd;  4.  Peirio;  6.  Cyhelyn; 
6.  Annev;  7.  Cov;  8.  Gwrthili;  9.  Cynddilic;  10.  Samson; 
11.  Huail;  12.  Gallgov;  13.  Eigrawn;  14.  Maelon  ;  16.  Aidan 
y  Coed  Aur  (or  the  golden  grove,)  16.  Eigrad;  17.  Idwal  Diri- 
nic;  18.  Cyngan  Voel;  19.  Cywelloc;  20.  Peithini. 
Cennydd,  ^ 

Gwynnoc,  f     The  sons  of  Gildas,  the  son  of  Caw,  who  is 

Nwython,  i  Gildas  y  Coed  Aur. 

Madoc  the  Bard,  ^ 

Cynddilic,  \     s^j^g  ^f  Nwython,  the  son  of  Güdas,  the  son 

Rhun  ""^  ^^"^  ^^"^  Cawlwyd. 

Saint  Egwad,  the  son  of  Cynddilic,  the  son  of  Nwython,  the  son 
of  Gildas  y  Coed  Aur ;  his  church  is  in  Ystrad  Towy. 

Saint  Fili,  the  son  of  Cennydd,  the  son  of  Gildas.     In  CTower. 

Saint  Gwrin,  the  son  of  Cynddilic,  the  son  of  Nwython,  the  son 
of  Gildas.   Trevwrin,  called  Gwrinston. 

Uvelwyn,  the  son  of  Cennydd,  the  son  of  Gildas,  the  son  of 
Caw  of  Cwm  Cawlwyd,  bishop  of  Llandaff. 

Tudwal  Mwynvawr,  the  son  of  Cadvan,  the  son  of  Cynan,  the 
son  of  Eudav,  of  the  family  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr. 

Tegwen,  the  daughter  of  Tewdric,  the  son  of  Teithvalch,  the 
wife  of  Gallgu  Rieddoc,  the  father  of  Elian  Ceimiad. 

Eldat,  saint  and  bishop,  the  son  of  Arth,  the  son  of  Arthwg, 
the  son  of  Cystennyn  Gomeu,  the  son  of  Cynvar,  the  son  of  Tud- 
wal Mwynvawr,  the  son  of  Cynan,  the  son  of  Eudav,  of  the  family 
of  Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Cynan,  the  son  of  Eudav,  of  the  family  of  Bran  the  Blessed, 
was  bishop  in  London,  in  the  time  of  the  Emperor  Maximus. 


1  From  this,  it  would  appear  that  there  were  two  persons  of  the  name  of 
Telle.  St.  Telle,  the  hishop,  and  Telle  Vyrwallt.  This  is,  however,  unsup- 
ported by  any  other  evidence.  The  church  of  Llandeiloverwallt,  or  Biahops- 
ton,  in  Gower,  is  in  the  Liber  Landavensis  appropriated  to  St.  TeOo,  and  b 
there  called  ^^Lanberugall."  If  the  word  **  B^wallt"  has  any  local  signifi- 
cation in  connexion  with  this  church,  it  is  probably  derived  from  ^Berw,** 
the  Water  Cress,  and  "Gallt,"  a  wooded  declvity.  Query,  Does  this  acc«jrvl 
with  the  locality? 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  541 

Marchell,  the  daughter  of  Tewdric,  the  son  of  Teithvalch,  king 
of  Gwent  and  Brycheiniog,  wife  of  Anllech  Groronog,  and  mother 
of  Brychan  Brycheiniog. 
Dygain,  ^ 

Yecwn,  >     Three  sons  of  Cystennyn  Gomeu. 
Erbin,    J 
Bhon, 

Tyvaeloc,  Sons  of  Euryn  y  Coed  Aur,  called  Saint 

Gwynno,  Gildas,  and  Gildas  the  Prophet. 

Saint  Gynddylan, 

Gwythelin,  saint  and  bishop,  the  son  of  Teithvalch,  the  son  of 
Nynniaw,  of  the  family  of  Bran  the  Blessed.  It  is  not  known  where 
he  was  bishop  of.^ 

Saint  Cyhylyn,  the  son  of  Tewdric,  the  son  of  Teithvalch,  of  the 
family  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr.  He  was  a  bishop  of  London  in 
the  time  of  Cystennyn  Llydaw. 

Macsen  Wledig  [the  Emperor  Maximos,]  the  son  of  Llewelyn, 
Earl  of  Cornwall,  the  son  of  Tegvan,  the  son  of  Deheuvraint,  the 
son  of  Tudbwyll,  the  son  of  Eurben,  the  son  of  Gradd,  the  son  of 
Rhudeym,  the  son  of  Eurdeym,  the  son  of  Cyndeym,  the  son  of 
Euddos,  the  son  of  Avallach,  the  son  of  Avlech,  the  son  of  Lladd, 
the  son  of  Beli  Mawr.  Macsen  Wledig  was  the  sole  monarch  of 
Britain,  and  Emperor  of  Borne,  and  his  court  was  in  Caerlleon  up- 
on Usk;  and  he  was  the  first  since  the  time  of  Dyvwal  Moelmud 
who  held  a  sovereign  court  there,  and  the  first  who  appointed  privi- 
lodged  bishops  in  the  Island  of  Britain,  with  lands  and  possessions; 
and  he  had  four  sons,,  namely: — Gwythyr,  Owain  Vinddu,  Cys- 
tennyn, and  Edny  vcd.  Others  say  that  he  had  another  son  named 
Pebli^  a  saint  in  Caernarvon.  Others  assert  that  this  Pebli  was 
the  son  of  Owain  Vinddu. 

Here  are  the  saints  who  are  descendants  from  Macsen  Wledig. 

Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig,  king  of  Gwent. 

Dy vnwal  Hen,  king  of  Gwent,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of 
Macsen  Wledig. 

Saint  Peblic,  the  son  of  Owain  Vinddu,  the  son  of  Macsen 
Wledig ;  his  church  is  in  Caernarvon. 

1  In  Godwin's  List  of  the  Bishops  of  Loudon,  he  appears  as  bishop  of  that 
see  under  the  name  of  Guitelinus,  and  in  a  transcript  made  by  lolo  Moi^g^an- 
wg,  he  is  stated  to  have  been  one  of  the  Chorepiscopi  of  LlondaiT,  prior  to  the 
tiuie  of  St.  Dubricius.    See  Liber  Landavensis,  pap:c  n23. 


542  THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 

Madoc,  the  son  of  Owain  Vinddu,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig. 

Saint  Ceinwr,  of  the  college  of  lUtyd,  the  son  of  Cedig;  the  mm 
of  Dy vnwal  Hen,  the  son  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macseu  Wledig. 

Gavran,  the  son  of  Aeddan  Vradoc  [the  traitorous,]]  the  son  of 
Dyvnwal  Hen,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig; 
his  wife  was  Lleian,  the  daughter  of  Brychan  Brycheiniog. 

Mordav,  the  son  of  Servan,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen,  the  son 
of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig. 

Elidir  Mwynvawr  [the  courteous,]  the  son  of  Gorwst  Bnodor, 
the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen,  tlie  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen 
Wledig. 

Rhydderch,  the  son  of  Tudwal  Tudclud,  the  sou  of  Gedig,  the 
son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen 
Wledig. 

Ceidiaw,  the  son  of  Ynyr  of  Gwent,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen, 
the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig.  His  mother  was 
Madren,  the  daughter  of  Gwrthevyr  Vendigaid  QVortimer.] 

Cadwr,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig,  wu 
a  bishop  in  the  Island  of  Britain,  and  he  was  brother  of  Dyvnwal 
Hon;  and  he  resided  in  Caerlleon  upon  Usk. 

Gwyddno  Garanhir,  the  son  of  Gorbonion,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal 
Hen,  king  of  Gwent,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macseu 
Wledig. 

Elfin,  the  son  of  Gwyddno  Garanhir,  the  son  of  Gorbonion,  the 
son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen,  king  of  Gwent,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son 
of  Macsen  Wledig. 

Nudd  Hael,  the  son  of  Senyllt,  the  son  of  Cedig,  the  son  of 
Dyvnwal  Hen,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig. 

Cynheiddion,  the  son  of  Ynyr  Gwent,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen, 
the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig. 
Dingad, 
Gwrtherin, 

Lleuddad,  I   gg^yiit^  th3  g^jj  ^f  c^ig^  ^^e  son  of 

legwyn,  \  j)y^jjwal  Hen,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the 

yvnoc,  I  gQjiof^acgen  Wledig;  and  lord  of  Usk. 

liar  ap  Nudd,  ■  ° 

Tegwynn, 

Llid  north, 

Eleri,  the  daughter  of  Nudd  Hael,  the  son  of  Senyllt,  the  son  of 

Cedig,  the  son  of  Dyvnwal  Hen,  the  son  of  Ednyved,  the  son  of 

Macsen  Wledig. 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS.  543 

Melangell,  the  daughter  of  Cy  vwlch  the  Gentle,  the  son  of  Tud- 
wal  Tudclud,  the  son  of  Cedig,  the  son  of  Djvnwal  Hen,  the  son 
of  Edny  ved,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig. 

Mjgnach,  a  saint  of  Caerlleon,  the  son  of  Mydno,  the  son  of 
Gwron,  the  son  of  Arch,  the  son  of  Gwrddyled,  the  son  of  Egmir, 
the  son  of  Owain  Vinddu,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig. 

Here  are  other  Saints  of  the  family  of  Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son 
of  Llyr  Llediaith. 

Selyv,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Cystennyn  Gh)men,  the  son 
of  Cynvar,  the  son  of  Tudwal  Mwynvawr,  the  son  of  Cynan,  the 
son  of  Eudav,  of  the  family  of  Bran  the  Blessed,  the  son  of  Llyr 
Llediaith. 

Cybi,  saint  and  bishop,  the  son  of  Sely v,  the  son  of  Geraint, 
ui  êupra^  Archbishop  of  Gwynedd;  and  Tonwen,  the  daughter  of 
Gynyr  of  Caer  Grawch,  was  his  mother. 

Pawl,  a  saint  and  bishop  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  the  son  of  Mey- 
rig,  the  son  of  Tewdric;  and  he  established  a  college  where  the 
White  House  on  the  Tav  is,  in  Dyved. 

Rhun,  the  son  of  Euryn  y  Coed  Aur,  the  son  of  Caw  of  Twr 
Celyn,  a  saint  of  Ystumllwynarth. 

Cynddilic,  the  son  of  Nwython,  the  son  of  Euryn  y  Coed  Aur, 
was  a  saint  in  Somersetshire. 

Elvod,  a  saint  and  bishop  of  the  college  of  Cybi,  and  Archbishop 
of  Gwynedd,  the  son  of  Goleudrem,  the  son  of  Glassar,  the  son  of 
Geraint,  the  son  of  Nynniaw,  the  son  of  Cynddilic,  the  son  of 
Nwython,  the  son  of  Gildas  the  Prophet,  the  son  of  Caw  of  Cwm 
Cawlwyd,  called  Caw  of  Twr  Celyn,  in  Anglesey. 

Saint  Cain,  the  daughter  of  Caw  of  Twr  Celyn;  her  church  is 
in  Ystrad  Towy. 

Glassog,  the  son  of  Glassar,  the  son  of  Geraint,  the  son  of  Nyn- 
niaw, the  son  of  Cynddilic,  the  son  of  Nwython,  the  son  of  Gildas 
the  Prophet,  the  son  of  Caw,  of  Cwm  Cawlwyd;  his  church  is  in 
Arllechwedd,  and  he  was  bishop  in  Caer  Gybi,  and  gave  lands  to 
Bangor  Deiniol  in  Gwynedd  uwcb  Conwy. 

Dolgain,  the  daughter  of  Gildas  y  Coed  Aur,  the  son  of  Caw, 
lord  of  Cwm  Cawlwyd. 

Brychan  Brycheiniog,  the  son  of  Anllech  Goronog,  king  of  Ire- 
land, and  Marchell,  the  daughter  of  Tewdric,  the  son  of  Teithvalch, 
king  of  Gwent  and  (Jarth  Mathrin,  was  his  mother. 


544 


THE  BRITISH  SAINTS. 


Here  are  the  names  of  Brychan  Brycheiniog^s  children;  his  soiw^ 

names  are  as  follows: — 


1.  Cynog  Verthyr, 

2.  Cyvlewyr, 

3.  Dingad,  lord  of 

Usk, 

4.  Pabiali, 

5.  Nefei, 

6.  Bhun, 

7.  Dogvan, 

8.  Arthen, 


9.  Cynbryd, 

10.  Dyvnan, 

11.  Bhaint, 

12.  Pascen, 

13.  Cynvran, 

14.  Clydoc, 

15.  Cadoc, 

16.  Gerwyn, 

17.  Bhawin, 


18.  Mathaem, 

19.  Cledwyn, 

20.  Cynin,* 

21.  Hychan, 

22.  Nevydd, 

23.  Llecheu, 

24.  Caî, 

25.  Dyvric. 


1.  Gwawr, 

2.  Gwenvrewi, 

3.  Eleri, 

4.  Gwrgon, 
6.  Mechell, 

6.  Lleian, 

7.  Nevyn, 

8.  Ceindrychi 

9.  Eluned, 
10.  En  vail, 


HIS  DAUGHTERS. 

11.  Gwladus, 

12.  Gwenddydd, 

13.  Dwynwen, 

14.  Hawystl, 

15.  Bhieingan, 

16.  Goleuddydd, 

17.  Tydyeu, 

18.  Cymmorth, 

19.  Tanglwyst, 

20.  Ceinwen, 


21.  Tudvyl, 

22.  Gwawrddydd, 

23.  Clydai, 

24.  Cenedlon, 

25.  Arìanwen^ 

26.  Tybieu, 

27.  Gwen, 

28.  Anna. 


Saint  Nevydd,  the  son  of  Bhun  Drerarudd,  the  son  of  Biyehan 
Brycheiniog. 

Nevydd,  the  son  of  Nevydd  the  second,  the  son  of  Rhun  Drem- 
rudd. 

Tewdwr  Brycheiniog,  the  son  of  Nevydd,  the  son  of  Nevydd  the 
second,  the  son  of  Bhun  Dremrudd. 

Andras,  the  son  of  Bhun  Dremrydd,  the  son  of  Brychan  Brv- 
cheiniog.     Llan  Andras  in  the  diocese  of  Teilo,  in  Morganwg. 

Brynach  Wyddel  [the  Gwyddelian,]  the  confessor  of  Brychan 
Brycheiniog;  his  wife  was  Cymmorth,  the  daughter  of  Brvchan. 
His  church  is  in  Morganwg. 

Gerwyn,  the  son  of  Brynach  Wyddel;  and  Cymmorth,  the 
daughter  of  Brychan,  was  his  mother. 

Mwynwen,  \     The  daughters  of  Brynach  Wyddel;  their  mi>- 

Gwennan,    ^ther  was   Cymmorth,   the  daughter  of  Brvchan 


Gwenlliw, 


'  Brycheiniog. 


THE   BRITISH    SAINTS.  545 

Here  is  the  family  of  Gynyr  of  Caor  Gawch. 

Saint  Gynyr  of  Caer  Gawch,  the  son  of  Gwyndeg,  the  son  of 
Saithenyn,  king  of  Maes  Gwyddno,  whose  land  was  overflowed  by 
the  sea,  the  son  of  Saithenyn  Hen,  the  son  of  Plaws  Hen,  king  of 
Dyved,  the  son  of  Gwrtherin,  a  prince  of  Rome,  who  expelled  the 
Gwyddelians  from  Dyved  and  Gower. 

Meyrig,  king  of  Dyved,  the  son  of  Gwrthelin,  the  son  of  Eudav, 
the  son  of  Plaws  Hen,  king  of  Dyved,  the  son  of  Gwrtherin,  a 
nobleman  of  Rome,  who  expelled  the  Gwyddelians  from  the  land  of 
Gower  and  Dyved. 

Sadwm  Hen,  the  son  of  Gynyr  of  Caer  Gawch.  His  church  is 
in  Emlyn. 

Saint  Patric,  the  son  of  Gwyndeg,  and  brother  to  Gynyr  of  Caer 
Gawch. 

Sadyrnin,  the  son  of  Sadwm  Hon,  the  son  of  Gynyr  of  Caer 
Gawch. 

Nonn  Vendigaid,  the  mother  of  Saint  David,  and  the  daughter  of 
Gynyr  of  Caer  Oawch,  and  Anna,  the  daughter  of  Uther  Pen- 
dragon,  Emperor  of  the  Island  of  Britain.  She  was  the  second 
wife  of  Gynyr  of  Caer  Gawch,  and  had  been  previously  the  wife  of 
Amwn  Ddu,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw. 

Banhadlen,  the  daughter  of  Gynyr  of  Caer  Gawch,  and  wife  of 
Dirdan,  a  nobleman  of  Italy. 

Elvyw,  the  son  of  Dirdan;  his  mother  was  Banhadlen,  the 
daughter  of  Gynyr  of  Caor  Gawch. 

Saint  Anna,  the  daughter  of  Uther  Pendragon,  and  mother^  of 
Saint  David,  and  before  that  she  had  been  the  wife  of  Amwn  Ddu, 
king  of  Grawec,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw.  She  had  a  son  by  that 
Amwn,  whose  name  was  Samson,  a  saint  of  the  college  of  lUtyd. 

Saithenin,  king  of  the  plain  of  Gwyddno,  whose  land  was  over- 
flown by  the  sea,  the  son  of  Saithin  Hon,  the  son  of  Plawff  Hen, 
king  of  Dyved,  the  son  of  Gwrtherin,  a  nobleman  of  Rome,  who 
came  to  expel  the  Gwyddelians  from  Gower  and  Dyved. 

Gwyndeg,  Senewyr,  Arwystl  Oloff",  Llibio,  Tudclut,  Meiryni, 
Gwynhoedl,  Hoedloy w,  Tudur,  Ynyr ;  sons  of  Saithenin,  the  son 
of  Saithin,  king  of  the  plain  of  Gwyddno,  whose  land  was  over- 
flown by  the  sea ;  and  they  became  saints  in  Bangor  Vawr,  in 
Maelor,  on  the  banks  of  the  Dee,  which  was  endowed  by  Cyngen, 
the  king,  the  son  of  Cadell  Deyrnllwg. 

'  Evidently  grandmother  is  here  iiitcn<UMl. 

1A 


54G  THE   BRITISH   SAINTS. 

Meiryn,  tho  son  of  Meirjni,  the  son  of  Saithenin,  of  the  plain 
of  Gwyddno. 

T^T'  ]      "^^"^  chUdren  of  Arwystl  GloflF,  the  son  of  Sftith- 

T  A  I  ^^"^'  ^^^  ^^^9  were  with  Deiniol  in  Bangor  Mael- 

T        A  \  ^^'^  ^^^  ^^^^^  ^^^  dissolution  of  that  college,  the? 

T  A  i  ^^^^  ^^  Bangor  Gad  van,  in  Bardsey  Island;  their 

D^h^^'  \  °^^**^®^  ^*®  Tywanwedd,  the  daughter  of  Amlawdd 

Marchell,   /  ®' 

Saint  Geithaw,  the  son  of  Tudor,  the  son  of  Arwystl  Oloff;  his 
church  is  in  Gardiganshire. 

Saint  Sawyl  Velyn,  the  son  of  Bledri  Hir,  the  son  of  Meyrig, 
the  king  of  Dyved;  his  church  is  Llansawel,  in  Emlyn  Uwch 
Guch.i 

Meyrig,  the  king  of  Dyved,  was  one  of  the  four  kings  who  bore 
the  Golden  Sword  before  the  Emperor  Arthur,  on  the  three  prin- 
cipal festivals,  and  on  every  high  and  honourable  feast  and  festival. 


Here  are  the  names  of  the  children  of  Gaw  Cawllog. 

1.  Geidio;  2.  Blenwyd;  3.  Avarwy;  4.  Auryn  y  Coed  Aur; 
5.  Peirio;  6.  Gwrddelw;  7.  Gwrddwdw;  8.  Avrogwy;  9.  Celyn 
Moel;  10.  Aeddan;  accordingly  they  were  ten. 


From  tho  book  of  Thos.  Trueman,  the  Great  Black  Book;  and 
in  another  book  of  his,  they  are  given  thus: — 

1.  Peirio;  2.  Geidio;  3.  Avarwy;  4.  Blenwyd;  6.  Oildas  y 
Goed  Aur;  6.  Gwrddelw;  7.  Gyhelyn  Voel;  8.  Oennydd;  Ö. 
Eigrawn;  10.  Avrogwy;  11.  Qallgov:  12.  Gilydd;  18.  Dirinic; 
14.  Gafo;  15.  Huail,  16.  Aeddan. 


From  the  book  of  Mr.  Lloyd,  of  Beaumaris,  thus: — 
1.  Peirio;    2.  Gennydd;    3.  Samson;    4.  Gyngar;    5.   Huail; 

1  Llansawel^  Caermorthenshire. 


THE   BRITISH   SAINTS. 


547 


6.  Cyhelyn  Vardd;  7.  Gallgov;  8.  Eigrawn;  9.  Owrddelw;  10. 
Cilydd;  11,  Dirinic;  12.  Oewydd;  13.  Aneuryn  y  Coed  Aur; 
14.  Oynwrig;  15.  Gov  [Cof.] 


And  in  the  book  of  Thos.  Hopkin,  of  Llangrallo,  thus: — 


1.  Peirio, 

7. 

2.  QallgoT, 

8. 

3.  Ettgrad, 

9. 

4.  Gennydd, 

10. 

6.  Aneurin, 

11, 

6.  Cafo, 

12. 

13.  Eigrawn, 

14.  Cyhelyn  Vardd, 

15.  Cyngar, 

16.  Samson, 

17.  Canna,  daughter 

of  Caw. 


Dirinic, 

Cewydd, 

Maelog, 

Gwrddyly, 
11.  Cilydd, 

Huail, 

Their  father.  Caw  of  North  Britain,  was  driven  out  of  his  coun- 
try, by  the  Ghvyddelian  Picts.  He  was  lord  of  Cwm  Cawlwyd, 
and  he  and  his  children  came  to  Wales,  some  of  them  to  Arthur, 
and  he  gave  them  lands;  and  some  became  saints  in  the  college  of 
lUtyd,  and  of  Teilo,  and  of  Cattwg.  Others  went  to  Maelgwn 
Owynedd,  and  he  gave  them  lands  in  Anglesey,  namely  Twrcelyn, 
and  from  thence  forward  he  was  called  Caw  of  Twrcelvn. 


The  children  of  Caw  of  North  Britain,  from  the  book  of  Mr. 
Davies,  of  Bangor. 


1.  Dirinic, 

2.  Cilydd, 

3.  Bangawr, 

4.  Ustic, 


5.  Cynwric, 

6.  Gwydion, 

7.  Samson, 

8.  Cyngar, 


9.  Huail, 

10.  Gildas, 

11.  Cyhelyn, 

12.  Gallgov, 


13.  Gwrddelw, 

14.  Eigrawn, 

15.  Aneurin, 

16.  Caen. 


(rwyllog,  ^ 
oithian,  L 
weuavwy,    j 


THE  DAUGHTERS  OF  CAW. 


In  Auijrlesov  thuv  lie  buried. 


From  the  book  of  Llanganua,  which  contains  these  matters  in 
addition  to  what  in  found  in  that  of  Thos.  Trueman ;  in  all  other 
things  it  corrcs|>ouds  with  it.    It  is  one  of  the  books  of  Tre  Bryn. 

These  are  the  bishops  who  disputed  with  Augustin,  the  bishop 
of  the  Saxons,  on  the  buuks  of  the  Severn,  in  the  Forest  of  Dean ; 


548  THE   BRITISH   SAINTS. 

namely,  the  bishop  of  Caerfawjdd,  called  Hereford  ;  2,  the  biahop  of 
Llandaff;  3,  the  bishop  of  Llanbadam  Vawr;  4,  the  bishop  of  Bangor; 
5f  the  bishop  of  Llanelwy  [St.  Asaph;]  6,  the  bishop  of  Wecg; 
7,  the  bishop  of  Morganwg/     (From  the  book  of  LilaDganna.) 

There  were  seven  chancels  in  Bangor  Iscoed,  and  three  hundred 
devout  monks,  men  of  learning,  in  each  chancel,  praising  God  day 
and  night  without  ceasing.     (Book  of  Llanganna.) 

Endwy,  the  son  of  Howel  Varchog,  the  son  of  Howel  Veic,  the 
son  of  Emyr  Llydaw. 

Meigan,  the  son  of  Patric,  the  son  of  Cyfyloc,  the  son  of  Gar- 
mon,  the  son  of  Goronwy,  of  Gwareddoc,  saint  of  Beuno's  college. 

In  another  book  thus : — 
Meigan,  the  son  of  — ' 


Patric,  the  son  of  — 
Cyfyloc,  the  son  of  — 
Garmon,  the  son  of  —  , 


Goronwy  of  Gwareddoc,   saints  of 

the  college  of  Beuno. 


In  another  thus : — 
Meigan,  the  son  of  Gronwy  of  Gwareddoc. 
Patric,  the  son  of  Gronwy  of  Gwareddoc. 
Cyfyloc,  the  son  of  Gronwy  of  Gwareddoc. 
Garmon,  the  son  of  Gronwy  of  Gwareddoc. 
Ceiuwen,  a  female  saint. 


1  Dunawd,  bishop  of  Bangor  Iscoed,  is  the  only  one  of  these  bishops^  i«- 
corded  by  name  as  having  been  present  at  the  second  Synod  or  Conference 
with  Augostin.  The  bishop  of  Llandaflf  mast  have  been  St.  Oudoceus^  who 
occupied  that  See  at  the  time.  St.  Asaph  was  most  probably  the  bishop  of 
Llanelwy  here  mentioned,  and  from  him  that  See  took  its  present  Englkh 
designation.  The  bishop  of  Weeg  cannot  be  so  easily  identified;  he  mjgfat 
have  been  one  of  the  suffragan  bishops  in  Ergyng;  for  it  is  elsewhere  stated 
that  St.  Dubricius  founded  a  choir  or  college  at  the  Weeg,  on  the  Wye,  sap- 
posed  to  be  Henllan,  in  Uerefordshire ;  perhaps  the  bishop  alluded  to  ww 
Uvelwy  or  Uvelinus,  who  was  a  sufiragan  bishop  in  Ergyng,  contemporaiy 
with  St.  Oudoceus.  It  is  not  improbable  that  the  bishop  of  Hereford  ww 
also  one  of  those  ordained  by  St.  Teilo,  chorepiscopi  under  the  bishop  of  IJsn- 
daif,  see  Liber  Landavensis  page  624 ;  which  work  also  states  that  Moipm 
Mwynvawr,  the  king  of  Glamorgan,  erected  a  bishopric  at  Margam,  w£ch 
had  five  successions,  called  bishops  of  Glamoi^gan,  king  Morgan  himself  beíi^ 
the  first  prelate,  and  the  only  one  who  was  contemporary  with  St.  Oudo- 
ceus; from  which  it  may  be  inferred  that  he  was  the  bishop  of  Glamoigan 
present  at  the  above  council. 


THE  BRITISH   SAINTS. 


549 


Finan  of  the  college  of  Seinoel,  who  became  a  bishop  in  the 
North. 

In  Dyved, 
Ystudwal, 


Trystan, — 
Llibio, — 
Machraith, — 
Bhuddlad,— 
Rhwydrys, — 
Llwyvo. — 


Ystinau, 
Elvyw, 
Hywel, 
Dylwyv, 

Bheithion, 
Satymin. 


In  Eidwelif 
Gynheidian, 
Daroc, 


In  Arvon, 
Deiniolen, 
Melldeym, — ^in  Lleyn, 

Cynhaval    iClwyd,   q^j^  Llanwrda. 
Cyfin, 

In  Ceredigion, 
Dygwy, —  In  Elved, 

Caranoc,  Lhiwddoc, 


In  Brycheiniog, 
Gwenvael, 
Elwy, 

EUi. 

In   Gwent, 
Gwarog/ 
Henwg,' 
Fwyst,' 
Gh)vor,* 
Mablu,  or   j 
Mableu.      j 


Saint  Illtyd  established  on  the  banks  of  the  Hodnant^  eight 
score  and  eight  cells,  as  the  Poet  says, — 

^^  Saint  Illtyd  made  on  the  banks  of  the  Hodnant  eight  score 
and  eight  colleges,  where  two  thousand  saints  resided,  loading  a 
life  according  to  the  faith  of  Jesus,  practising  every  godliness,  fast- 
ing, abstinence,  prayer,  penance,  almsgiving,  and  charity,  and  all 
of  them  supported  and  cultivated  learning.'''* 

This  is  repeated  in  another  place : — 

Sunt  Illtyd  established  eight  score  and  eight  halls  or  colleges. 


'  Probably  the  founder  of  Llanwarrow,  or  Wonastow,  Monmouthnhire. 

'  In  page  468  he  is  called  Henwg  Sant,  and  is  stated  to  be  the  father  of 
the  celebrated  Taliesin,  chief  of  the  Bards. 

>  From  him  Llanfoist,  near  Abergavenny,  derives  its  name. 

*  The  Patron  Saint  of  Llanovcr,  or  as  it  was  formerly  called,  Llanovor, 
Monmouthshire,  iu  wliich  parish  ore  nine  springs  close  to  each  other,  called 
Fynnon  Ovor,  which  have  been  recently  cleared  and  restored,  by  Sir  Benja- 
min Uall,  Bart.  M.P.,  on  whose  ground  they  are  situated. 


550  THE   BRITISH   SAINTS. 

where  there  were  two  thonsand  saints  and  divines,    trnMtit^îTiîTig 
Christian  and  virtious  knowledge,  as  the  Poet  says. 

Brychan  had  G^rth  Mathrin,  and  called  it  after  his  own  n^knut 
Brycheiniog. 

Gwynlliw,  the  son  of  Glywys,  had  the  cantrev  of  Llinweniy  and 
called  it  Gwynllwg,  after  his  own  name. 

Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid,  had  Glywyseg,  and  called  it  so  after 
his  own  name ;  where  the  family  of  Elystan  GJodrydd  is. 

Morgan,  the  son  of  Arthur,  had  the  cantrev  of  Gweni,  and  the 
cantrevs  of  Essyllt,  and  Gorwennydd,  and  Bheged,  and  he  called 
them  after  his  own  name  Morganwg. 

Cadvan  Llydaw  established  a  Bangor  in  Bardsey,  where  the 
monastery  is  now. 

Gwyddno  Garanhir,  and  Geraint  the  son  of  Caranoc,  the  sons  of 
Caranoc,  the  son  of  Cleddyvgar,  the  son  of  Cynan  Glodrydd,  the 
son  of  Cadell  Deyrnllwg ;  their  land  was  overwhelmed  by  the  sea. 

Gleddigar,  the  son  of  Gynvarch,  the  son  of  Rhychwain. 

Saint  Cyndav,  a  man  of  Israel,  came  with  Saint  Gtemianus  to 
this  Island.    Others  say  that  he  came  with  Cadvan. 

Arwystl  the  lame,  the  son  of  Saithenin,  of  the  plain  of  Gwyddno. 

Tudur,  the  son  of  Arwystl  the  lame,  the  son  of  Saithenin,  in 
Argwain. 

Annan,  the  handmaid  of  Madrun,  the  daughter  of  Gwrthevyr 
Vendigaid. 

Saint  Cynhawal,  the  son  of  Elgud,  the  son  of  Cadvarch,  the  son 
of  Caradoc  Vreichvras. 

Mor,  the  son  of  Pasgen,  the  son  Urien  Bheged.  In  Llanvor  in 
Penllyn.. 

Saint  Llawdden,  in  the  Island  of  Eiddyn,  in  the  North. 

Cadell,  the  son  of  Urien  Bion,  the  son  of  Llywarch  Hen,  a  saint 
of  the  college  of  Cattwg,  in  Llangadell. 

Lleuddad  Llydaw,  the  son  of  Hywel,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw. 

Lleuddad  of  Gwent,  the  son  of  Dingad. 

Llynab,  the  son  of  Alan,  the  son  of  Emyr  Llydaw. 

Saint  Cirig,  the  son  of  Urien,  the  son  of  Cynvarch.  (In  another 
copy,  the  son  of  Arawn,  the  son  of  Cvnvarch.) 


THE   BRITISH    SAINTS.  551 

Edern,  the  son  of  Nudd,  the  son  of  Beli,  the  son  of  Maelgwn 
Gwynedd. 

Teilo,  the  son  of  Eissyssyllt,  the  son  of  Hiddyn  Ddu,  the  sop 
of  Oeredig,  the  son  of  Cnnedda  WIedig,  a  saint  of  the  college  of 
Cattwg. 

The  council  of  Aries  in  Glaul,  in  the  year  314.  Elborius,  the 
bishop  of  York;  Bhystud,  bishop  of  London;  and  Adelfin,  the 
bishop  of  Oaerlleon  upon  Usk. 

The  saints  of  Morganwg  and  Gwent. 

Oennydd,  Tewdrig,  Ciwg,  Nonn,  (Gower,)  Saroled,  EUdeym, 
Mabon,  Tewdrig,  lago,  Cewydd,  Bhidian,  Cenwyn,  Gwynno,  Ma- 
doc,  Isan,^Tybieu,  Gbirai,  Garan. 

The  Emperor  Jovian,  anno  363.  The  letter  of  Athanasius  to 
him  mentioning  the  faith  of  the  Gymry  as  of  the  Britons. 

Morgan  [Pelagius,]  the  heretic,  406.    In  Britain,  425. 

Germanus  and  Lupus,  427. 

Mor,  the  son  of  Morien,  brought  baptism  and  faith,  and  would 
not  bring  baptism  to  the  county  of  Gwynedd.  The  first  that  did  so 
was  Gwydion  the  son  of  Don,  king  of  Llychlyn  [Norway,]  who 
was  the  king  of  the  country  of  Gwynedd,  during  the  time  the  Gwy- 
ddelians  bore  rule  in  Gwynedd.  And  after  that  Mor  went  to 
Rome  and  Jerusalem.     Saint  Germanus  went  to — 


MEMORANDA 


CONCERNING  SOME  OP  THE  SAINTS  OF  THE  ISLAND  OP  BRITAIN, 
OUT  OP  SEVERAL  MINOR  UNCONNECTED  WRITING». 


The  nine  Holy  Families  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  and  all  of  them 
sprung  from  the  race  of  the  Cymry. 

1,  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith;  and  he  was  the  first;  whei«^ 
fore  was  he  called  Bran  Vendigaid  [Bran  the  Blessed,]  and  Bendi- 
geidvran. 

2,  Macsen  Wledig,  the  son  of  Llwybrawd;  and  his  family  be- 
came saints,  and  to  this  day  the  places  are  known  where  they  es- 
tablished their  churches. 

3,  Brychan  Brycheiniog.  His  mother  was  MarchelU  the 
daughter  of  Tewdrig,  king  of  Morganwg;  and  his  first  wife  was 
his  cousin,  namely  Bhybrawst,  the  daughter  of  Meyrig,  the  son  of 
Tewdrig,  king  of  Morganwg,  and  Gwent,  and  Ewyas. 

4,  Coel  Godebog,  king  of  the  Island  of  Britain ;  and  he  estab- 
lished a  church  in  Llandaff. 

5,  The  family  of  Dyvnwal  Hen  were  saints  in  Wales,  where 
their  churches  are  still  preserved  under  their  names. 

6,  Caw  of  North  Britain.  He  came  to  Wales,  and  had  Twr- 
celyn  in  Anglesey ;  and  from  that  place  was  his  mother,  and  he 
possessed  a  claim  and  a  right  to  land  and  territory  there. 

7,  Emyr  Llydaw,  originally  sprung  by  race  and  kindred  from 
the  Island  of  Britain,  namely  from  Cynan  Meiriadoc,  prince  of 
Cornwall,  which  Cynan  received  dominion  and  lands  from  Macsen 
Wledig  in  Armorica,  whore  he  and  his  descendants  resided ;  and 
his  descendants  became  saints  in  the  Island  of  Britain,  and  were 
in  the  Island  of  Bardsey  the  original  stock  of  the  saints  of  North 
.Wales,  where  many  of  their  churches  exist. 

8,  Cunedda  Wledig,  king  of  the  Island  of  Britain ;  and  in  Car- 
lisle he  held  his  court. 

9,  Helig,  the  son  of  Glannoc,  of  Tyno  Helig,  in  the  North, 
whose  land  the  sea  gained  upon ;  and  his  descendants  became  saints 
in  North  Wales,  where  there  are  many  of  their  churches.  Other» 
say  that  the  ninth  Holy  Family  was  that  of  Gwrtheym  Gwrtli- 
enau  and  that  many  of  their  churches  arc  in  Gwent. 


MEMORANDA.  653 


Out  of  the  book  of  John  Bradford,  which  he  says  he  took  out 
of  a  book  in  the  handwriting  of  Watkin  Powell,  of  Pen  y  Vai, 
about  the  year  1600.  ' 


Saint  Bleiddian,  of  the  land  of  (Jaul,  established  the  church  of 
Llanvleiddian  Vawr,  and  that  of  Llanvleiddian  Vach.  He  was 
brother  in  the  faith  to  Saint  Germanus. 

Nudd  Hael,  the  son  of  Senyll,  of  the  college  of  lUtyd,  built  the 
church  of  Llysvronudd. 

Owain,  the  son  of  Saint  Urien,  built  the  church  and  castle  of 
Aberllychwr. 

Saint  Ceiniwr  built  the  church  of  Llangeinwr. 

Saint  Tyvodwg,  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  built  the  church  of 
Handy vodwg,  and  that  of  Ystrad  Dyvodwg. 

Cadwalader  Vendigaid  built  the  church  of  Trev  Esgob,  in 
Gwent,  and  that  of  Magwyr,  hard  by. 

Ynyr  Gwent  built  the  church  of  Abergavenny. 

Glywys,  the  son  of  Tegid,  built  the  church  of  Machen. 

Saint  Tewdrig,  the  son  of  Teithvallt,  built  the  church  of  Bedwas, 
and  that  of  Merthyr  Tudvyl. 

That  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk  was  built  by  Macsen  Wledig. 

Maenarch,  earl  of  Hereford,  built  the  church  of  Gelligaer,  and 
that  of  Llanvabon,  in  honourable  memory  of  Saint  Mabon. 

Saint  Ceinwr,  the  son  of  Coel,  the  son  of  Cyllin,  the  son  of 
Garadoc,  the  son  of  Bnin,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  the  son  of 
Baran,  the  son  of  Keri  Hir  Lyng>*'yn,  built  the  church  of  Llangei- 
nwr in  Morganwg.  lie  was  a  man  who  would  not  believe  any 
being  corporeal  or  spiritual,  neither  out  of  this  world  would  he  be- 
lieve any  excepting  God  himself,  or  who  came  with  the  authority 
of  Crod  by  miraculous  wonders,  so  that  there  should  be  no  manner 
of  doubt  respecting  his  being  of  God,  in  all  that  could  be  seen  and 
understood  of  his  acts,  and  words ;  which  should  be  in  origin  and 
purpose,  consistent  with  what  was  seen  in  the  Son  of  God  and  his 
saints ;  so  that  there  should  be  no  room  for  doubt  that  they  pro- 
ceeded from  God. 

And  he  daily  and  nightly  prayed  to  Grod  to  obtain  from  him 
by  sight  and  hearing  what  he  ought  to  believe. — And  he  received 
through  sight  and  hearing  a  power  of  understanding  so  evident, 
that  it  could  not  be  doubted  that  he  obtained  what  he  desired. 

4  B 


554  MEMORANDA. 

Here  are  additional  notices  of  the  Genealogies  of  the  Saints,  from 
the  book  of  Anthony  Powel. 

1.  lUtyd  Varchog,  the  son  of  Bicanus  of  Armorica.     Hi»  mo- 
ther was  the  daughter  of  the  king  of  Morganwg,  and  he  was  chief 
of  all  Arthur'*s  knights.    And  there  occurred  a  contention  betwixt 
Illtyd  and  the  Emperor   Marcian^   and  two   of  the    Emperor^s 
chief  officers  desired  to  kill  him.     And  they  laid  hold  upon  lUtjd 
whilst  he  was  at  prayer,  and  they  could  not  move  in  the  least; 
but  Illtyd  by  his  prayers  restored  them.  And  when  the  Emperor 
knew  this  of  his  officers,  he  degraded  them,  and  gave  property  to 
Illtyd  to  form  a  college  on  the  site  of  the  church  of  Saint  Eurgen, 
the  daughter  of  Caractacus  king  of  Morganwg,  who,  after  being 
carried  captive  to  Rome,  was,  together  with  his  daughter  Eurgen, 
converted  to  the  Christian  faith,  by  Saint  Hid,  a  man  of  Israel;  which 
Hid  came  from  Rome  to  this  Island  with  Caractacus  and  Eai^n, 
and  they  were  the  first  that  converted  the  Cymry  to  Christianity. 
And  Eurgen  formed  a  college  of  twelve  saints ;  and  Lies  the  son 
of  Coelgave  possessions  to  that  college,  and  after  that,  it  became  an 
exceeding  eminent  monastery ;  and  Illtyd  made  there  three  large 
new  cells  through  the  endowment  of  Marcian,  and  he  became  a  saint 
there,  and  principal  of  all  the  cells  and  assemblages;  which  were 
the  cell  of  Eurgen,  the  three  cells  of  Illtyd,  the  cell  of  Arthur,  the 
cell  of  Gildas,  and  that  of  Dubricius.    Previous  to  this  the  place 
was  called  Bangor  Lleuver  Sant,  and  afterwards  Bangor  Illtyd, 
and  Llanilltyd,  and  it  was  the  most  celebrated  of  all  the  monas- 
teries for  piety  and  learning,  and  there  were  there  two  thousand 
saints.     And  Arthur  gave  lands  and  great  rents  to  these  cells. 
And  Tewdrig,  king  and  saint,  gave  them  possessions,  and  made 
four  new  cells  instead  of  the  seven  first,  and  there  are  four  churches 
dedicated  to  Saint  Illtyd  in  Morganwg,  namely,  Llanilltyd  Vawr, 
Llanilltyd  Gwyr,  Llanilltyd  Vaerdre,  and  Llanilltyd  Glyn  Nedd. 
1 .  Cattwg,  the  son  of  Cynlais,  the  son  of  Glywy s,  the  son  of  Tegid, 
king  of  Morganwg.     He  was  kinsman  to  Illtyd,  and  established  a 
college  for  a  thousand  saints  in  Llancarvan :  and  that  place  became 
very  celebrated  for  piety,  and  every  kind  of  learning  known.  And 
Cattwg  was  principal  over  all.     (It  is  rather  Hrange  that  Cynlat 
and  Chcyiilliw  should  be  the  same  person}) 

>  The  nbove  remark  is  by  lolo  Morganwg.    But  the  difficulty  is  remored, 
when  we  know  that  this  difference  in  the  name  was  paused  by  translation 


MEMORANDA.  555 

3.  Lleuver  Mawr,  the  son  of  Coel,  the  son  of  Meyng,  was  king 
of  the  Island  of  Britain,  and  he  dwelt  at  Lhtndaff,  and  was  the 
first  who  established  a  bishopric  there ;  and  he  gave  property  to  the 
college  of  Eurgen  for  a  hundred  saints,  and  he  formed  a  college  in 
North  Wales,  in  a  place  which  was  afterwards  called  Bangor  Is- 
coed.  And  after  that  Arthur  gave  possessions  to  the  college  of 
Iscoed,  and  placed  there  seven  assemblies,  according  to  the  advice  of 
lUtyd.  Lleuver,  the  son  of  Coel,  was  the  first  king  who  established 
national  order  and  law  for  the  Christian  religion ;  and  he  founded 
three  sees,  namely  Llandaff,  Caerwyryl,  and  Caervelyn,  and  these 
three  sees  were  the  first  in  the  Island  of  Britain. 

Saint  Hid,  a  man  of  Israel,  came  to  this  Island  with  Saint  Eur- 
gen, and  he  was  the  first  to  introduce  Christianity  into  the  Island 
of  Britain. 

Illtyd  founded  seven  churches,  and  appointed  seven  companies 
for  each  church,  and  seven  halls  or  colleges  in  each  company^  and 
seven  saints  in  each  hall  or  collcire. 


Otherwise, — 

Seven  churches    - 
Seven  companies  - 

7 
7 

Seven  collegiate  halls  - 

49 

7 

Seven  saints 

343 

7 

2401 


And  prayer  and  praise  wore  kept  up,  without  ceasing,  day  and 
night,  by  twelve  saints,  men  of  learning  of  each  company. 


and  re-transIatioD.  The  original  name  was  Cwi/nUiw;  this,  in  the  Latin  life 
of  that  saint,  was  ma<le  into  OunleiuSy  and  that  again  in  tliu  Welsh  re-trans - 
lation  from  the  Latin  hecomc  Cynlat, 


556  MEMORANDA. 

Illtyd,  the  knight  and  saint,  founded  seven  churches,  with  i 
enclosures,  and  appointed  seven  companies  to  each  church,  and 
seven  cells  for  each  company,  and  each  company  constituting  i 
choir^  and  seven  learned  men  in  each  cell;  and  praise  and  prayen 
to  God  were  kept  up  by  twelve  saints  of  each  college  day  and  ni^t 
without  ceasing. 

Illtyd  Varchog  bore  for  his  arms,  argent,  three  masts,  three 
castle  tops,  or,  and  six  darts  or.  (The  three  masts  for  the  three 
schools,  and  the  three  castle  tops  for  the  three  colleges  of  saints,  and 
the  six  gold  darts  for  the  six  churches,  which  he  founded  for  teach- 
ing the  Christian  religion  ;)  such  was  the  number  of  the  churches, 
and  they  were  all  in  Caer  Worgorn  in  Morganwg,  the  phu;e  now 
called  Llanilltyd  Yawr.  He  also  founded  other  churches  in  that 
country. 

Gwarthan,  the  son  of  Dunawd,  the  son  of  Pabo  Post  Prydain, 
was  confessor  to  Gattwg  in  the  college  of  Germanus,  and  Cattwg 
sent  him  and  his  brothers,  Deiniol  and  Gynwyl,  as  instructors  to 
Bangor  in  Maelor,  ou  the  banks  of  the  Dee ;  and  in  consequence 
of  the  wisdom  and  piety  of  these  three  brothers  it  became  the  most 
eminent  of  all  the  Bangors  of  the  Island  of  Britain ;  and  it 
was  demolished  by  the  pagan  Saxons^  in  the  battle  of  Bangor 
orchard,  and  then  were  killed  many  of  the  saints,  and  others  es- 
caped and  became  saints  in  the  Bangor  of  Bardsey,  and  thence, 
Bardsey  became  possessed  of  the  most  numerous  assemblage  of 
saints,  and  the  most  celebrated  for  learning,  of  all  the  Bangors  of 
North  Wales ;  and  enjoyed  gifts,  from  kings,  and  nobles,  and  gen- 
try more  than  did  any  other.  Gwarthan  was  slain  by  the  pagan 
Saxons  in  their  wars  in  the  North.  His  church  is  Llanwarthen, 
in  the  Vale  of  Clwyd. 

Here  are  the  names  of  the  cells  of  the  college  of  Illtyd ;  the 
college  of  Matthew — of  Mark — of  Luke— of  John — Arthur — Saint 
David — Morgan — Eurgain — and  Amwn.  Of  these  eight  colleges, 
Illtyd  was  principal ;  and  the  place  was  named  Bangor  Illtyd^  and 
there  were  three  thousand  saints. 

In  the  colleges  of  Saint  Dubricius,  there  were  the  following 
choirs;  that  of  Dubricius— of  Arthur — of  Juhus— of  Aron.  And 
all  these  were  in  Caerlleon  upon  Usk.     The  college  of  Dubricius, 


MEMORANDA.  557 

and  the  college  of  Meugant,  on  the  banks  of  the  Wye;  and  the  col- 
lege of  Llandaff;  and  Dubncins  was  principal  over  them  all,  and 
had  two  thousand  saints. 

Bangor  Aidan,  with  seven  colleges,  and  two  thousand  saints, 
after  the  names  of  the  seven  days  of  the  week. 

The  college  of  Cattwg  in  Llancarvan,  with  three  cells,  and  a  thou- 
sand saints,  and  two  cells  in  the  Vale  of  Neath. 

The  college  of  Cybi  in  Anglesey,  with  five  hundred  saints,  and 
Gybi  was  principal. 

The  college  of  Eurdeym,  the  son  of  Gwrtheym,  in  Uaneur- 
deym  in  Morganwg,  and  Eurdeym  was  principal,  with  a  thou- 
sand saints. 

The  college  of  Dochwy  in  Morganwg,  with  a  thousand  saints. 

The  college  of  Cadvan  in  Bardsey,  for  twenty  thousand  saints, 
and  there  were  there  no  cells,  but  every  one  did  as  he  chose.  And 
after  the  twenty  thousand  saints,  Bardsey  became  a  college  for  a 
cell  of  five  hundred  saints. 

The  college  of  Mechell  in  Anglesey,  for  a  hundred  saints. 

The  college  of  Saint  David  in  Menevia,  for  five  hundred  saints. 

The  college  of  Teilo  in  Llandaff,  for  a  thousand  saints. 

The  college  of  Cawrdav  in  Morganwg,  for  three  hundred  saints. 

The  college  of  Dyvan  in  Llandaff,  and  Dubricius  was  principal. 

The  college  of  Fagan  in  Llansantfagan,  and  Fagan  was  prin- 
cipal. 

The  college  of  Elbod  in  Bangor  Elbod,  in  Arvon,  and  Elbod 
was  principal  over  five  hundred  saints. 

The  college  of  Tathan  in  Caerwent,  with  five  hundred  saints. 
Tathan  had  also  a  college  in  Llandathan,  in  Morganwg,  for  five 
hundred  saints,  and  he  was  the  principal  of  these  two  colleges. 

The  college  of  Eurgan  in  LlaniUtyd,  for  four  and  twenty  saints; 
and  this  was  the  first  college  in  the  world  to  teach  the  Gospel  and 
Christian  faith. 

The  college  of  Sarlloc  in  Llandaff,  for  thirty  saints,  and  Sarlloo 
was  the  principal. 

The  college  of  Elvan  in  Glastonbury,  for  a  thousand  saints. 


558  MEMORANDA. 

THE  FESTIVALS  OF  THE  SAINTS  OF  WALES. 

Out  of  an  old  Calendar  in  a  MS.,  written  about  1500,  in  the  pos- 
Bession  of  Mr.  Thomas  Davies,  of  Dolgelleu. 

January  11.  Llwchaeam;  12,  Elar  and  Llwchaeam;  13.  Ibri, 
Elian;  19.  Gwylystan;  23.  Elli;  24.  Cattwg;  3.  MelangelL 

February  1.  Saint  Fread,  [Saint  Bride,]  the  Nun;  9.  Teilo. 

March  1.  David;  3.  Nonn,  the  mother  of  Saint  David;  6.  Gaion; 
7.  Sannan;  11.  Easter;  17.  Patric;  19.  Cynbryd;  29.  Gwynlliw. 

April  5.  Dervel;  7.  Brynach;  Llewelyn  and  Gh¥merth;  16. 
Padam:  21 .  Beuno. 

May  1.  Philip  and  James,  Asaph;  4.  Melangell;  6.  Isan  berth 
Llatin;  9.  Saint  Govor;  13.  Mahael  and  Sulien;  16.  Gkiranoc; 
17.  Noah  entering  the  ark,  the  deluge  arising;  20.  Anno;  21.  Coll- 
en;  22.  the  Queen  Helena;  27.  Melangell,  Oarmon;  29.  Erbin; 
30.  Tudclud. 

June  1.  Tecla;  3.  Goven;  4.  Pedroc;  13.  Sannan;  16.  Trillo, 
Ceneu;  16.  Cirig;  17.  Mylling;  22.  Albanus;  23.  Mivilia;  24. 
Saint  John  the  greater;  26.  Tumoc;  30.  Paul. 

July  1.  Saint  Cewydd  of  the  rain;  3.  Peblic;  4.  Marthin;  6. 
Covyl;  10.  the  seven  13rothers;  11.  Gowair;  13.  Doewan;  17.  El- 
iw,  Cynllo;  27.  the  seven  Sleepers;  31.  the  bishop  Giarmon. 

Augusts.  lUog  in Hivnant;  15.  Vawr  Vawr;  18.  Elen;  22.  Gwy- 
ddelau;  27.  Veddwid;  29.  the  beheading  of  Saint  John  the  lesser. 

September  1.  Silin;  2.  Sulien;  4.  Bhuddlad;  5.  Mechell;  6.  Id- 
les; 8.  Cynvarch;  9.  the  Living  Image;  10.  Eigion;  11.  Daniel; 
20;  Winifred;  24.  Tegla  Mwrog;  25.  Beugan;  30.  Nidan. 

October  1.  Silin  and  Garmon;  5.  Cynhaval;  8.  Cain,  Cammarch; 
9.  Cynog;  10.  Tanwg;  15.  Tudur;  21.  Gwryddor;  23.  Gwnog, 
Noethan;  31.  Dogvaol. 

November  3.  Clydoc,  Christiolus,  Gwenvoe;  5.  Cybi;  6.  Cyd- 
north,  Edwen;  7.  Cyngar;  8.  Tyssilio  of  Powys,  Cynvarwy;  9. 
Pabo  Post  Prydain;  11.  Marthin,  Edeym;  12.  Padam,  Cadwal- 
ader;  13.  Gradivel;  14.  Meilig;  15.  Machudd,  Mechell;  17. 
A  van;  21.  Digain;  22.  Diniolen;  23.  Clement;  27.  Gallgov;  29. 
Sadwm. 

December  1.  Grwst  and  Llechyd;  5.  Cawrda  the  bishop;  6. 
Nicholas.^ 

^  The  second  part  in  December  is  wanting. 


MEMORANDA.  559 

Patric,  the  son  of  Alvryd,  the  son  of  Goronwy,  [otherwise  of 
Wareddoc,]  the  son  of  Gwydion,  the  son  of  Don,  the  son  of  Dar- 
onwy. 

Patric,  the  son  of  Mawan,  the  son  of  Alvryd,  the  son  of  Goron- 
wy, the  son  of  Gwydion,  the  son  of  Don,  the  son  of  Daronwy,  of 
Norway,  and  king  of  Anglesey. 

The  children  of  Urien  Rheged;  1,  Owen,  knight  of  the  Bound 
Table,  and  earl  of  the  Fountain ;  2,  Pasgen,  chief  stock  of  the 
Ravens;  3,  Rhun;  4,  Elphin;  5,  Cyndeyrn;  6,  Rhiwallon;  7, 
Cadell;  8,  Garth,  the  son  of  Urien. 

In  the  year  542,  died  Deiniol,  the  bishop  of  Bangor;  and  Theon, 
bishop  of  Gloucester,  was  made  Archbishop  of  London;  and  Sam- 
son, Archbishop  of  York,  died;  and  also  Saint  David. 

Meyric,  king  of  Glamorgan,  gave,  at  his  baptism,  lands  to  God 
and  to  Saint  Teilo,  and  to  the  bishops  of  Llandaff  for  ever,  as  ter- 
ritorial lands  and  privileges.  And  from  this  it  became  customary 
to  give  lands  to  God  and  the  saints,  upon  baptism ;  and,  when 
there  was  no  baptism,  upon  the  sacrament  of  the  body  of 
Christ,  for  the  strongest  oath  is  that  which  is  made  upon  baptism, 
or  receiving  the  Holy  Sacrament.  (Out  of  the  Book  of  Anthony 
Powel  of  Llwydiarth.) 

Segin,  a  Gwyddelian,  a  saint  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  Llanvi- 
hangel  in  Cowbridge.     He  has  also  a  church  in  North  Wales. 


FABLES. 


THE  FABLES  OF  CATTWG  THE    WISE, 

THE  SON  OP  GWYNLLIW,  THE  SON  OF  GLYWYS,  THE  SON  OP  TBGID 
THE  SON  OP  CADELL  DEYRNLLWG. 


I.  THE  MOLE  AND  THE  LARK. 

The  Mole,  one  jSne  morning,  in  the  splendid  and  brilliant 
month  of  May,  having  observed  the  Lark  high  upwards  in  the 
sky,  chanting  its  song  of  gladness,  exclaimed,  "Ah !  how  sad  my 
fate.  Would  that  I  were  a  Lark  instead  of  a  Mole.  I  might 
then  soar  into  the  clear  regions  of  the  sky,  where  nothing  would 
obstruct  me  on  my  journey;  and  where  in  light,  and  space  uneon- 
fined,  I  should  sing  my  full  to  my  heart'*s  delight.  Whereas  I 
have  now  to  dig  my  way  through  the  hard  and  rocky  ground, 
where  I  am  continually  meeting  with  obstructions,  without  light, 
or  the  possibility  of  seeing  any  thing  in  the  total  darkness, 
through  which  I  have  to  wend  my  way.'' 

These  words  had  hardly  escaped  him  before  he  saw  a  Hawk 
pounce  upon  the  Lark,  which  he  killed  and  ate.  Whereupon,  the 
Mole  bethought  himself,  and  said,  "God  be  praised  that  I  am  a 
Mole,  living  in  safety,  however  great  my  care  and  toil  maybe; 
and  that  I  am  concealed  under  ground  and  in  the  dark,  where 
neither  the  Hawk,  nor  any  other  rapacious  creature  can  see  me.'' 
There  is  no  happiness  where  there  is  no  safety.  There  is  no 
safety  but  has  its  care. 

Let  each  person  be  contented  jn  the  state  in  which  6od  hath 
placed  him.  He  knoweth  better  than  man  what  is  for  the  best ; 
and  it  is  from  pure  love  He  hath  done  what  seemed  to  Him  the 
best  for  every  living  creature. 


FABLES.  561 


n.  THE  MAN  WHO  KILLED  HIS  GREYHOUND. 


There  lived  formerly  at  Abergarwan,  a  man  and  wife  who  had 
a  son,  and  he  was  their  only  child,  an  infant  in  his  cradle.     One 
day,  when    his    wife    was    gone  to   attend   her  devotions,   the 
man  heard  the  cry  of  hounds  on  his  land,  in  full  chase  after  a 
stag.     "I  will  go  and  meet  them,''  said  he,  "that  I  may,  as  lord 
of  the  land,  get  the  share  due  to  me  of  the  stag/'     And  away  he 
went  leaving  his  child  in  the  cradle,  and  near  the  cradle  lay  his 
Greyhound.     Whilst  the  man  was  absent  in  the  field,  a  Wolf  en- 
tered the  house,  and  would  have  killed  and  devoured  the  child; 
but  the  Greyhound  fought  hard  with  the  Wolf;  and  after  a  long 
and  bloody  struggle,  and  many  wounds  and  bruises,  he  at  last  suc- 
ceeded in  killing  him.     It  so  happened  that  during  the  struggle 
the  cradle  was  by  some  means  or  other  overturned,  and  it  lay  on 
the  ground  with  its  face  downwards.     When  the  man  returned  to 
the  house,  the  Greyhound,  covered  with  blood,  got  up  to  welcome 
his  roaster,  and  showed  symptoms  of  joy  at  his  return,  by  shaking 
his  head  and  wagging  his  tail.     But  the  man,  when  he  discovered 
blood  on  the  Greyhound,  and  a  pool  of  blood  upon  the  floor,  thought 
that  the  Greyhound  had  killed  his  only  child;  and  so,  in  a  fit  of 
rage  and  distraction,  he  thrust  the  Greyhound  through  with  his 
sword,  and  killed  him.     But  when  he  went  to  the  cradle,  and  had 
turned  it  up,  and  found  his  child  alive,  and  unhurt,  and  saw  the 
Wolf  lying  dead  by  the  side  of  the  cradle,  and  that  the  Grey- 
hound had  been  mangled  and  torn  by  the  teeth  of  the  Wolf,  he 
became  almost   frantic  with  grief.     Hence  arose  the  proverb; — 
"Before  revenge,  first  know  the  cause;"  and  "  Reflect  twice  before 
striking  once.**' — This  circumstance  gave  rise  to  the  following  ex- 
pressions:— "As  sorry  as  the  Man  who   killed  his  Greyhound.**' 
— "A  hasty  act  is  not  a  prudent  act;  but  like  the  man  who  killed 
his  Greyhound." 

The  man  who  sufiers  his  passion  to  get  the  better  of  his  pru- 
dence, will  commit  an  act  which  he  will  never  be  able  to  undo; 
and  as  long  as  he  lives,  it  will  cause  him  painful  sorrow.  It  is  well 
for  a  man  to  bridle  his  rage,  lest  he  should  avenge  himself  unjustly, 
like  the  Man  who  killed  his  Grevhound. 

3  c 


562  FABLES. 


m.    THE  TWO  FISH. 


Two  Trout  perceiving  a  fisherman's  net  in  pursuit  of  them,  took 
counsel  together  how  to  make  their  escape.  Said  one  of  them,  ^4 
will  dive  deep  into  the  mud,  until  the  net  shall  have  passed  over.'' 
"Not  so/'  replied  the  other,  "for  a  dirty  place  that!  I  will  leap 
upon  dry  land,  where  I  shall  have  no  need  to  fear  the  net  sur- 
rounding me;"*'  and  so  he  did.  But  he  v^as  not  long  there  before 
he  felt  the  effects  of  heat,  and  such  a  thing  he  had  never  before 
felt;  and  also  excessive  drought  torturing  him.  "Woe  is  me.''' 
said  he,  "That  I  did  not  follow  my  friend's  example,  and  dive  into 
the  mud,  and  remain  there  until  the  net  had  passed:  for  had  I 
done  so,  and  continued  ever  after  upon  my  guard,  I  might  have 
escaped  the  fisherman's  net  to  the  end  of  my  natural  life.  Whereas 
now,  here  am  I  dying  from  drought  and  heat,  without  feet  or  wings 
to  assist  me  in  getting  into  the  water,  from  whence  I  came.**  And 
there  he  died.  Wherefore  it  is  said,  "  Like  fish  out  of  the  water." 
And  "  Better  for  a  man  the  evil  that  he  knoweth,  than  the  evil  he 
doth  not  know." 

Let  every  one  do  his  best  in  the  state  in  which  providence  hath 
placed  him. 


IV.    THE  GRASSHOPPER  AND  THE  ANT. 


The  Ant  had  been  busily  employed  during  the  summer  in  lay- 
ing up  his  stock  of  provision,  which  was  to  consist  of  a  sufficieney 
of  every  thing  that  was  deemed  necessary  for  his  own  maintenance, 
and  that  of  his  family  over  the  winter.  When  therefore  the  frost, 
and  cold  winds,  and  rain^  and  snow  had  set  in ;  he  was  with  his 
vnfe  and  children,  and  all  his  household  quite  snug  and  happy, 
in  his  house  and  farm  in  the  enjoyment  of  abundance.  And  it 
so  happened,  that  about  dusk,  one  cold  evening  in  the  month  of 


FABLES.  563 

December,  he  heard  some  one  call  out  to  him  at  his  door.  ^' Who 
art  thouT  asked  the  Ant.  "A  relation  of  thine/'  was  the  reply. 
"A  relation !''  said  the  Ant.  "What  is  thy  name!  It  is  not 
from  fear  or  ill-feeling  towards  thee  that  I  ask ;  but  merely  for  the 
sake  of  knowing  who  thou  art.**'  "  I  am  thy  brother  in  the  faith, 
the  Grasshopper,'^  said  he,  *'  and  am  come  to  pay  thee  a  visit, 
as  is  the  custom  among  kinsfolks.""  "  Where  wast  thou  all  the 
summer,""  asked  the  Ant,  "  that  I  did  not  see  thee,  and  get  thee 
to  assist  me  in  gathering  in  my  com,  and  hay,  and  fire-wood!"^ 
"Hopping,  and  skipping,  and  singing  my  very  best  in  fields, 
where  the  trefoil  grew,  and  where  the  sunshine  was  brightest;  and 
I  did  this  for  the  amusement  of  every  living  thing  that  heard  me,"" 
answered  the  Grasshopper.  "  Go  then,""  said  the  Ant  in  reply, 
"  to  those  who  enjoyed  the  amusement  thou  gavest  them ;  I  had 
not  much  of  it,  nor  had  I  time  from  the  business  of  my  harvest  to 
attend  to  thee.  Now  is  our  time  for  singing.  Go  then  and  labour 
for  thyself,  as  I  have  done.""  The  Grasshopper  turned  away  sor- 
rowful and  sad ;  and  the  next  morning  he  was  found,  at  no  great 
distance  from  the  door,  quite  dead,  from  cold  and  hunger.  Where- 
fore, when  speaking  of  an  improvident  person,  it  is  said  of  him,  or 
in  reference  to  him: — "  Like  the  Grasshopper  in  sunshine;""  and 
"  Industry  is  the  best  trade;""  and  "  He  that  is  a  friend  to  himself 
will  gain  to  himself  friends;""  and  "  He  that  labours  during  summer, 
will  sing  throughout  the  winter;""  and  "  He  that  performs  his  part, 
knows  his  place."" 


V.  THE  FOWLER  AND  THE  COOPER. 


A  Fowler  and  a  Cooper  went  together  into  a  wood,  the  Fowler 
in  search  of  woodcocks,  and  the  Cooper  in  quest  of  sticks  for  mak- 
ing hoops.  They  had  not  gone  far  into  the  wood,  when,  as  each  of 
them  was  making  the  very  best  use  of  his  eyes  in  search  of  what 
he  wanted,  "Lo!  cried  the  Fowler,""  I  see  a  woodcock.'" 
"  Where f"  asked  the  Cooper.  "There  yonder,  directly  before 
thee,""  said  the  Fowler,  "  at  the  foot  of  the  alder-bush ;""  near 
where  thou  seest  the  marshy  spot.""  "  Is  it  near  that  hoopstave 
yonder?""  asked  the  Cooper.  "Hoop-stave!  whereabouts  is 
thy  hoop-stave  T"  asked  the  Fowler.     '^  It  is  at  the  foot  of  that 


564  FABLES. 

hazel  bash,  which  thou  seest  straight  on  before  thee,^  said  the 
Cooper.  "  I  cannot  see  thy  hazel  tree,  nor  thy  hoop-stave/^  re- 
plied the  Fowler.  "Nor  I  indeed  thy  woodcock,  or  thy  alder- 
bush,"  replied  the  other. 

Now  as  the  case  was  with  these  two  men  ;  so  it  is  with  the  ge- 
nerality of  mankind ;  for  there  is  no  man  in  the  world»  but  casts 
his  eye  around  in  search  of  the  object  he  wishes  to  find ;  and  he 
soon  discovers  anything  that  is  like  it ;  whereas  an  object  for  whieh 
he  cares  nothing  he  cannot  see  be  it  ever  so  visible.  So  faithfully 
true  are  the  old  proverbs  which  say,  "  Sharp-sighted  is  every  eye 
that  seeks.*"  "The  eye  of  the  anxious  is  quick  sighted.***  **The 
eye  of  the  indifferent  can  see  nothing,  be  the  object  ever  so  visible; 
but  the  eye  of  the  seeker  will  see  quickly,  like  the  Fowler  and 
Cooper  in  the  wood." 


VI.   THE  SMITH  WHO  HAD  A  GOOD  NAMR 

A  Smith  of  old  had  gained  a  good  name  and  great  reputatioiiy 
as  an  excellent  maker  of  sharp-edged  instruments ;  and  there  came 
a  man  who  desired  of  him  to  let  him  have  a  good  axe.  The  Smith 
promised  him  he  should  have  it.  But  it  so  happened  that  when 
the  Smith  was  working  at  it,  the  steel  flew  off  from  out  of  the  axe. 
"Master!  Master!'^  cried  the  Smith's  servant,  "the  steel  has 
slipped  out."  "  Do  thou  hammer  away  at  the  iron  then,*"  said  the 
Smith;  "if  the  steel  is  out,  the  good  name  is  in." 

And  this  is  like  the  world;  it  matters  not  what  evil  a  person  does, 
provided  he  has  a  good  name,  nor  what  good  any  one  does  if  he 
has  a  bad  name ;  or  had  never  gained  to  himself  a  good  name. 
So  true  are  the  proverbs.  "  Blessed  is  the  man  of  whom  a  good 
report  hath  gone  abroad. — Happy  is  the  man  who  hath  gained 
to  himself  a  good  name. — Evil  may  nestle  in  the  bosom  of  a 
good  name  ;  or  in  other  words,  Look  out  for  the  deviPs  nest  in 
the  bosom  of  a  good  name. — Disgrace  often  falls  from  the  bosom  rf 
a  good  name,  as  it  did  in  the  case  of  the  Smith  and  the  axe." 

Hence  the  inference,  that  it  is  not  safe  to  place  too  much  reliance 
upon  the  good  report  that  is  heard  of  any  man  in  the  world.  And 
woe  betide  him  who  gets  a  bad  name  when  young;  but  a  hundred- 
fold greater  woe  be  to  him  who  hath  a  bad  name  when  old,  for 
there  is  no  hope  for  him. 


FABLES.  565 


VII.    THE  HOG  AND  THE  CUCKOO. 

A  Hog,  as  ho  was  wallowing  in  the  mire,  one  sunny  morning  in 
the  month  of  Maj,  happened  to  hear  the  Cuckoo  sing  upon  the 
topmost  branch  of  a  tree  in  the  orchard  ;  and  pointing  his  swivel- 
led snout  in  the  direction  of  the  Cuckoo,  thus  addressed  him.  ^^It 
is  to  me  a  matter  of  surprise,  that  thou  shouldest  have  taken  the 
trouble  of  climbing  up  so  high,  for  the  sake  of  singing  Kuo-Koo^  so 
incessantly ;  whereas  no  one  cares  a  straw  for  thy  song,  and  to 
thyself  it  brings  no  good  whatever/'  "It  is  not  so,''  replied  the 
Cuckoo,  '*  I  sing  for  joy  at  the  arrival  of  summer  and  the  bright 
sunshine,  and  I  rejoice  in  my  song,  as  well  as  the  cause  of  it ;  and 
there  is  no  living  creature  upon  earth,  save  thee  and  thy  sort,  but 
that  rejoices  to  hear  me  announcing  to  them  the  good  tidings  of 
the  approach  of  the  long  summer  days,  and  fair  weather.  All  are 
delighted  to  see  me,  and  to  hear  me  ;  they  recognise  in  me  an  old 
acquaintance  whose  voice  they  love.  Neither  man,  nor  any  raven- 
ous creature  in  the  world,  that  is  known  either  of  birds  or  beasts, 
except  thyself,  were  it  in  their  power,  would  do  me  the  least  harm; 
but  happily  for  me,  thou  art  not  possessed  of  either  power  or 
sense  to  do  me  any  injury.  And  as  for  thee,  wallowing  in  the 
mire,  thou  art  not  liked  by  any  body.  Hateful  to  every  eye  is  the 
sight  of  thee,  mischief  thou  art  doing  wherever  thou  art.  It  is  bad 
news  to  hear  of  thee  wherever  thou  art;  and  were  it  not  for  the 
swivel  which  is  put  in  thy  nose,  thou  wouldest  uproot  and  destroy 
every  thing  around  thee.  But  when  thou  shalt  have  fattened 
thyself  sufficiently,  by  feeding  upon  what  every  other  kind  of  crea- 
ture rejects,  then  will  they  kill  thee  for  the  value  of  thy  fat :  where- 
as nobody  seeks  to  kill  me ;  but  on  the  contrary,  all  deeply  lament 
that  my  days  are  not  longer:  but  there  is  no  good  from  thee 
until  thy  death." 

Now  what  the  Hog  said  of  the  Cuckoo  is  very  like  what  the 
miserly  man  says  of  every  intelligent,  liberal-hearted  person,  who 
takes  delight  in  doing  what  good  ho  can,  for  the  pleasure  of  his 
fellow  beings ;  whereas  none  are  benefited  by  the  miser  while  he 
lives.  There  is  nothing  that  the  miser  would  not  do  to  injure  all 
men  living,  for  the  sake  of  collecting  wealth,  in  which  he  will  wal- 
low ;  and  he  would  not  refrain  at  all,  were  it  not  for  the  punish- 
ment of  the  law  restricting  him,  like  the  ring  in  the  Swine's  snout. 
It  is  when  the  miser  dies,  and  not  before,  that  any  good  can  be 


566  FABLES. 

derived  from  him,  like  the  fattened  Hog.  Hence  the  proYeibfl. 
*' The  liberal  man  and  the  niggardly  man  can  never  agree  together. 
— Privet  and  Alders  are  not  of  the  same  nature. — The  fox  is  not 
offensive  to  himself. — Mire  is  not  disagreeable  to  the  Pig. 
— The  liberal  man  and  the  miser  cannot  agree  together,  any  more 
than  the  Hog  in  the  mire,  and  the  song-loving  Gackoo  perched 
upon  the  branch.'' 


Vm.    THE  OLD  WOMAN  AND  THE  YARN. 

An  Old  Woman  who  had  several  children  and  grand-childien, 
perceiving  that  discord  and  strife  existed  among  them,  summoned 
them  into  her  presence;  and  when  they  were  assembled,  there 
were  no  less  than  twenty  of  them.  ^' Bring  here  to  me,^  said  she^ 
"  each  of  you  a  ball  of  yam ;''  and  this  they  did.  And  having 
taken  one  of  the  balls,  which  consisted  of  a  single  twisted  thread, 
she  tied  together  with  the  thread  the  hands  of  the  feeblest  of  her 
grand-children;  but  the  little  child  soon  broke  his  bands.  Then 
she  tied  his  hands  with  stronger  thread  taken  from  another  ball; 
but  which  also  he  easily  broke.  And  in  like  manner  did  he  break 
the  threads  taken  from  the  rest  of  the  balls  in  succession.  And  it 
was  found  that  no  band,  thus  made,  proved  lasting ;  and  that  the 
strongest  thread,  like  the  weakest,  was  easily  broken.  After  this^ 
the  Old  Woman  desired  that  all  the  balls  should  be  so  twisted  to- 
gether, as  to  form  one  entire  cord  out  of  the  whole;  and  this  wis 
done.  Then  the  Old  Woman  took  some  of  the  cord  thus  twisted, 
and  with  it  tied  together  the  hands  of  the  strongest  of  her  sons; 
and  he  could  not  by  any  effort  break  it. 

*'See  now,''  said  the  Old  Woman,  "how  much  stronger  the 
thread  is  when  united  than  when  single.  And  so,  my  children 
and  grand-children,  as  long  as  you  remain  at  variance  with  one 
another,  and  act  in  opposition  to  each  other,  any  one  who  had  a 
mind  could  easily  overpower  you;  and  there  is  not  one  man  out  of 
a  thousand  but  will  try  to  do  so,  if  it  be  in  his  power;  but  if  ye 
will  but  cling  together  in  firm  union  like  the  twisted  thread,  your 
strength  will  be  such  that  it  will  not  be  in  the  power  of  any  enemy 
whatever  to  stand  successfully  against  you.  Hence  the  proverb: 
"  Stronger  the  thread  of  double  twist  than  that  of  single  twist.'*' 
Another  proverb  says:    "There  is  no  strength  without  union."' 


FABLES.  567 

And  according  to  another  proverb :  ''  It  is  an  easy  matter  to  cast  a 
mountain  into  the  ocean,  after  separating  each  stone  from  the  other .'^ 


IX.  THE  WOODPIGEON  AND  THE  MAGPIK 

A  Magpie  perceiving  a  Woodpigeon  building  her  nest  very 
clumsily  and  unskilfully,  gave  her  counsel  and  instruction,  by  di- 
recting her  and  saying,  "  Put  a  sprig  this  way,  and  a  sprig  that 
way,  one  after  this  manner,  and  another  thus,  and  thus;  and  then 
thou  wilt  build  thy  nest  correctly,  and  it  will  be  strong  and  habit- 
able.'*' "  I  know !  I  know  !  I  know  !**'  said  the  Woodpigeon.  But 
for  all  that,  she  went  on  with  her  work  according  to  her  old  untidy 
way  just  as  she  ever  used  to  do ;  and  the  Magpie  was  all  the  while 
endeavouring  to  force  instruction  upon  her,  and  the  only  acknow- 
le(}gement  he  obtained  from  the  Woodpigeon  was,  "I  know!  I 
know!  I  know  I*"  And  she  went  on  without  making  the  least  im- 
provement in  her  mode  of  building,  and  without  benefiting  in  the 
least  from  the  instruction  she  received.  "  If  thou  knowcst  it,^  re- 
plied the  Magpie,  "  Why  then  dost  thou  not  do  it  Î  And  having 
said  this,  the  Magpie  left  her  to  go  on  in  her  own  clumsy  way,  seeing 
that  it  was  useless  to  attempt  instructing  her.  Hence  the  proverbs : 
"  Like  the  Magpie  and  the  Woodpigeon  ;**'  and  "I  know!  I  know! 
I  know!  as  said  the  Woodpigeon;**'  and  "  As  unskilful  as  the  Wood- 
pigeon."*' There  are  other  proverbs  to  the  same  effect,  namely, — "  It 
is  not  easy  to  drive  learning  into  him  who  is  wise  in  his  own  eyes. — 
The  imskilful  will  not  easily  take  instruction. — Every  fool  is  wise  in 
his  own  eyes. — It  is  not  easy  to  take  a  man  out  of  his  track. 
— No  one  knows  less,  than  he  who  knows  every  thing. — The  fool  is 
fond  of  his  stick."  The  following  proverbs  are  applied  to  such  as 
are  incapable  of  learning  from  want  of  natural  abilities.  '^  It  is 
not  easy  to  extract  marrow  from  a  post. — You  cannot  get  out 
of  a  vessel  but  what  is  put  in  it. — It  is  not  easy  to  thrust  brains 
into  agate  post. — It  is  not  easy  to  make  a  nightingale  out  of  a  crow." 


X.    THE  MAN  AND  THE  MOUSE. 

As  a  Nobleman  of  great  wealth  was  walking  out  in  the  fields 
one  cold  and  damp  aftemoon,  in  the  month  of  December,  he  saw 


568  FABLES. 

a  man  who  was  a  ditcher  sheltering  himself  under  a  hedge,  and 
eating  some  dry  barley  bread,  without  butter  or  cheese ;  and  drink- 
ing water  from  a  pool  that  was  close  at  hand.     As  he  was  eating, 
he  was  heard  to  say,  ^' Woe  is  me !     This  is  a  miserable  living  tor 
me,  to  be  obliged  to  work  hard  upon  this  food,  which  can  scarcely 
keep   me    alive,    and  of  which    I  cannot  get   a  sufficiency   to 
eat;    whereas  my   master  is  living  upon  dainties,    and   spend- 
ing an  idle  life,  and  myself  unable  to  get  better  fare  than  this. 
And  to  get  this  I  have  to  work  hard.     He  has  nothing  to  do,  nei- 
ther work,  nor  occupation  to  employ  him.**'    With  this  the  Noble- 
man (who  happened  to  be  his  master,)  made  his  appearance,  and 
asked  him  what  it  was  ho  wanted.     "  To  have  somewhat  better 
fare  to  live  upon,^'  said  the  Man.     ''  If  thou  hadst  the  same  food 
as  thy  master  to  live  upon,**^  said  the  Nobleman  to  him,  ^'  wonldest 
thou  live  contentedly  upon   that  without  wishing  for  anything 
mórer     "  Yes,  gladly,"  said  the  Man,  "  and  upon  much  less  than 
that  I  could  live  quite  contentedly.**'  ''  Wouldest  thoa  do  one  thing 
he  might  ask  thee,  provided  that  what  he  asked  of  thee  to  do  was 
of  easy  performance,   and  attended  with  no  labour?"      **Yea, 
gladly,"'  said  the  Man,  "and  that  too  with  careful  and  gratefbl 
obedience."     "  Very  well  then,"  replied  the  Nobleman.     "  Come 
along  with  me ;  I  am  thy  master,  and  thou  shalt  have  as  good  &n 
to  live  upon  as  myself."     And  so  they  went  together  as  far  as  the 
palace;  where  the  Nobleman  showed  him  a  chamber  as  handsome 
as  any  in  the  house.     And  there  was  in  the  chamber,  a  bed  made 
of  the  finest  down  of  the   swan;  and  it  lay  within  a  pavilion, 
that  was  covered  with  silk  fringed  with  gold.     On  the  bed  were 
clothes,  made  of  the  finest  linen,  and  of  the  softest  wool,  beauti- 
fully white  and  handsome,  and  over  these  there  was  a  quilt  of 
needlework  interwoven  with  gold.     And  in  the  chamber  there  was 
every  variety  of  costly  furniture,  neatly  and  elegantly  arranged, 
all  pleasing  to  the  eye,  and  well  adapted  for  comfort  and  conveni- 
ence.    After  showing  the  Man  this  chamber,  they  then  put  on 
him  one  of  the  most  gorgeous  and  costly  of  dresses  that  a  Noble- 
man could  wear ;  and  such  was  its  beauty,  that  no  one  could  have 
imagined  its  splendour  unless  he  had  seen  it  with  his  own  eyes. 
In  the  next  place,  there  were  appointed  expert,  obedient,  and  ac- 
tive servants,  consisting  of  men  and  women,  to  wait  upon  him* 
All  these  preliminaries  having  been  gone  through,  they  placed  be- 
fore him  a  table  of  costly  workmanship;  and  upon  the  table  there 
was  laid  a  cloth,  wrought  throughout  ¥rith  leaves  of  silver  and 


FABLES.  569 

gold,  and  silk.  Then  there  were  brought  in,  and  placed  upon  the 
table,  the  very  best  and  choicest  of  provision,  of  flesh,  fowl, 
and  fish,  various  kinds  of  excellent  pastries,  as  well  as  fruit  of 
every  sort ;  and  of  drinks  there  was  no  lack  of  the  very  best  and 
choicest;  for  on  the  table  were  wines  of  all  qualities  and  descrip- 
tions ;  also  ale,  and  mead,  and  bragget.  Yet  among  all  the  many 
dishes  there  was  one  covered  dish. 

The  table  having  been  thus  laid  out,  the  Nobleaian  addressed 
the  man,  and  said,  "All  this  is  for  thee;  do  thou  therefore  help 
thyself,  and  partake  to  thy  full  enjoyment  of  whatever  pleaseth 
thee.  And  here  are  the  servants,  men  and  women,  who  will  wait 
upon  thee,  and  supply  thee  with  whatever  more  thou  mayest 
want  at  any  time.  But  what  has  been  put  in  that  covered  dish, 
is  my  portion  of  the  feast.  Wherefore  touch  not  what  is  in  the 
dish,  for  it  is  not  allowed  thee,  neither  concern  thyself  about  it, 
nor  be  curious  to  look  what  it  contains.**"*  "To  your  request  and 
commands,**^  replied  the  Man,  "I  will  pay  rigid  obedience.**^ 
And  so  he  did  for  several  dayn.  However  one  day,  after  he  had 
made  a  sumptuous  dinner,  an  unconquerable  desire  came  over  him, 
to  know  what  firstrate  cookery  there  might  be  under  the  cover  of 
the  forbidden  dish.  And  so  when  the  attendants  had  left  the  room, 
the  man  took  off  the  cover,  and  in  a  moment  out  jumps  a  mouse ! 
And  besides  the  Mouse  there  was  nothing  else  in  the  dish.  Then 
the  Man  saw  at  once  the  folly  of  his  having  been  so  greedy  and 
curious;  and  he  was  at  a  loss  what  to  do,  for  very  vexation.  Ac- 
cordingly, upon  the  table  being  cleared,  the  Nobleman  discovered 
that  the  Mouse  was  lost.  And  he  sent  for  the  man,  whom  ho 
had  thus  befriended,  to  come  to  him ;  and  when  he  came,  he  said 
to  him,  "  See  now,  what  has  become  of  thy  over-greediness  and  ex- 
cessive curiosity !  Hadst  thou  not  enough  of  every  thing  that 
could  have  satisfied  thine  heart  ?  And  was  it  therefore  too  much 
for  thee  to  obey  one  friendly  command  which  I  gave  thee ;  and  to 
accede  to  one  simple  request  which  I  kindly  asked  thee  to  do,  by 
way  of  return  for  all  I  had  given  thee?  But  now,  inasmuch  as 
thou  didst  not  do  this,  get  thee  back  again  into  the  ditch  from 
which  I  took  thee ;  and  there,  whether  contented  or  otherwise,  just 
as  it  pleases  thee,  stick  to  thy  work,  for  thou  shalt  remain  no 
longer  here.'*'*  And  to  the  ditch  he  had  to  return,  where  he  found 
out  his  folly,  and  learnt  the  truth  of  the  proverb  which  Bays : 
"  Too  much  ease  is  difiicult  to  be  managed. — The  more  one  has, 
the  more  is  wanted — Greediness  is   never   satisfied — Greediness 

4    D 


570  FABLES. 

never  discovers  its  error  until  it  be  too  late,  like  the  Man  and  the 
Mouse. — Ambition  breaks  its  own  neck — The  discontented  mm 
will  always  be  discontented  let  him  have  what  he  may,  Uke  the 
Man  and  the  Mouse.**"* 


XI.  THE  MAN  WITH  THE  CARRION  IN  HIS  SLEEVE. 


There  lived  formerly  in  the  same  hamlet  two  men  of  the  names 
of  Eidiol  and  Eidwyll ;  who  had  each  of  them  a  wife ;  Elidiors  wife 
was  cleanly  and  neat  in  her  work,  and  in  all  her  occupations,  and 
discreet  and  methodical  in  the  management  of  her  family,  and  her 
neighbours  spoke  well  of  her,  and  paid  respect  to  her  husband  out 
of  the  respect  they  had  for  her;  EidwylPs  wife  was  dirty  and  slat- 
ternly, and  she  did  not  observe  order,  or  show  any  discretion  in  the 
management  of  her  family;  there  were  none  of  her  neighbours  that 
spoke  well  of  her,  and  her  husband  had  no  respect  paid  to  him  on 
her  account,  and  nothing  that  was  good  ever  resulted  from  what 
she  did  or  said.  Now  as  these  two  men  were  mowing,  one  day,  in 
the  early  part  of  a  summer's  morning,  in  a  field  near  the  hamlet 
where  they  both  lived,  Eidiol,  after  noticing  the  dirty  and  ragged 
state  of  EidwylFs  clothes,  and  how  foul  and  unwholesome  his 
food  appeared,  (whereas  every  thing  belonging  to  Eidiol  was  quite 
the  reverse,  his  dress  and  clothing  being  neat  and  cleanly,  his  food 
and  drink  wholesome  and  tempting,  and  his  behaviour  and  con- 
duct sober  and  excellent,)  he  thought  it  right  to  address  Eidwyll 
in  the  following  manner:  "  It  is  a  matter  of  surprise  to  me,""  said 
he,  "how  thou  art  able  to  live  with  such  a  wife  as  thou  hast;  I 
cannot  find  out  what  thou  canst  see  in  her,  for  she  is  altogether 
ugly,  and  dirty,  unamiable,  and  a  woman  without  discretion,  and 
thou  hast  lost  the  respect  of  every  body  on  her  account/'  '*  Habit," 
replied  Eidwyll,  "  habit  will  accustom  a  man  to  any  thing;  there  is 
nothing  in  the  world  to  which  one  cannot  become  habituated;  ha- 
bit reconciles  one  to  every  thing.  Habit  is  the  soft  bed  on  which 
everything  sleeps,  conscience  is  not  disturbed  when  she  sleeps  in 
the  bed  of  habit;  there  was  a  time  when  I  did  not  like  what  thou 
secst  wrong,  but  now,  I  have  no  dislike  to  it/"*  "  That  would  nol 


FABLES.  571 

be  the  case  with  uio,"  said  Eidiol;  "I  would  go  away,  and  not 
let  her  know  where  I  was,  and  I  would  go  where  I  could  be  respect- 
ed, and  well  clad,  and  where  none  should  disparage  me.'*'*  "I 
hear  thee,"*'  said  Eidwyll,  and  made  no  further  remark  on  what 
Eidiol  had  said;  but  refraining  from  speaking,  he  turned  in  his 
mind  what  he  should  do,  in  order  to  shew  Eidiol  what  custom  and 
habit  could  effect.  On  the  following  day,  the  weather  being  exces- 
sively hot,  Eidwyll  espied  EidioFs  clothes  lying  by  the  side  of  a 
bush,  and  he  went  where  he  knew  there  was  some  putrid  meat,  and 
having  cut  a  few  slices  of  it,  he  put  it  in  the  folds  of  EidioFs 
sleeve ;  when  Eidiol  therefore  put  on  his  garment,  he  smelt  a  hor- 
rible stench  about  him,  and  ho  complained  of  it;  but  at  every 
word  of  complaint  from  Eidiol,  Eidwyll,  by  way  of  reply,  alluded  to 
something  else  quite  foreign  to  the  subject.  Eidiol  continued  to 
complain,  and  complaint  after  complaint  did  ho  make ;  but  by  de- 
grees, they  became  less  frequent,  and  at  last,  he  ceased  to  complain 
altogether.  After  a  while  Eidwyll  began  to  make  enquiries  of  Ei- 
diol about  the  stench,  who  said  in  reply,  that  it  had  ceased,  or 
that  he  was  no  longer  annoyed  by  it.  "Ah  !'*'*  said  îlidwyll,  "it  is 
as  I  told  you,  habit  will  reconcile  one  to  any  thing,  and  custom  makes 
all  things  easy.'*'*  He  then  explained  to  Eidiol  the  whole  affair, 
and  told  him  every  thing  about  it;  and  Eidiol,  after  hearing  what 
he  had  to  say,  replied  :  "  Through  God's  aid,  I  will  never  associate 
with  thee  again,  or  have  any  thing  to  do  with  thee  more ;  thou 
mayest  remain  where  thou  art,  and  be  as  thou  art,  but  I  will  not 
be  corrupte<l  by  thee,  or  suffer  myself  to  become  familiarized  with 
any  thing  that  is  improper  for  a  wise,  prudent,  and  resjHJctable 
man ;''  and  so  he  at  once  broke  off  all  acquaintance  with  Eidwyll, 
looking  upon  him  as  a  person  unfit  for  society.  Hence  the  pro- 
verbs :  "  Habit  familiarizes  a  man  with  any  thing,  like  the  Man 
with  the  Carrion  in  his  sleeve;  when  once  habituated,  he  becomes 
reconciled  to  it. — In  the  bed  f)f  habit  wickedness  will  slumber  till 
death. — Wheroff)re  abstain  from  accustoming  thyself  to  evil,  re- 
ject it,  and  go  not  where  tliou  mayest  be  corrupted,  and  flee  from 
it,  as  Eidiol  fled  from  Eidwyll. — An  evil  habit,  will  make  evil  a 
habit,  and  habit  is  not  easily  abandoned."**  Let  every  wise  and 
conscientious  Christian  and  man  beware  of  familiarizing  himself 
with  evil.     And  so  hv  it  for  ever. 


572  FABLES. 


XII.    CEINAN,  THE  DAUGHTER  OF  CEINWAWK 

There  was  a  damsel  formerly  of  tte  royal  race  of  the  Cymry» 
whose  name  was  Geinan,  the  daughter  of  Ceinwawr;  she  was  the 
fairest  maiden  under  the  sun,  the  fame  of  her  beauty  had  spread 
far  and  wide;  every  body  spoke  of  her,  and  every  body  wished  to 
have  a  sight  of  her.  But  previous  to  their  seeing  her,  they  ha- 
zarded conjectures  with  respect  to  her  beauty;  one  person  would 
imagine  her  to  be  as  fair  as  the  snow  that  had  fallen  during  the 
night,  another  supposed  that  her  complexion  was  like  the  foam  of 
the  wave,  others,  that  it  was  like  the  dazzling  hue  of  the  lime  from 
the  whitened  wall,  when  it  reflects  back  the  rays  of  the  morning 
sun;  her  cheeks  were  supposed  to  be  more  lovely  than  the  roses, 
wherein  are  seen  the  blending  of  the  red  and  white,  each  softened 
into  the  other,  as  each  colour  terminated;  her  lips  were  conjectured 
to  partake  of  the  hues  of  the  bright  red  dawn,  as  it  melts  into  the 
resplendent  light  of  a  summer'^s  morning,  and  that  the  whiteness 
and  the  blushes  of  her  cheeks  alternately  concealed  each  other,  so 
that  no  one  could  tell  where  or  how.  Her  hair  was  likened  to  every 
golden  hue^  her  blue  eyes  were  said  to  be  brighter  than  the  stars  in 
the  luminous  firmament,  and  with  respect  to  her  stature  and  form, 
no  one  could  conjecture  their  measure  of  loveliness.  In  this  manner 
did  those  who  had  not  seen  her,  form  conceptions  of  her  beauty. 
Nevertheless  of  those  who  saw  her,  every  one  discovered  a  deficiency 
of  beauty ;  so  one  painted  her  with  white,  to  make  her  appear  more 
fair,  another  coloured  her  cheeks  with  red,  to  make  her  appear 
more  ruddy,  another  added  vermilion  to  her  lips,  another  blacken- 
ed her  eyebrows,  and  another  dyed  her  hair.  "She  is  too  short,'" 
said  one;  "She  is  too  talV  said  another;  every  one  wished  to  im- 
prove her  appearance  according  to  his  own  taste,  and  what  was 
said  by  one  to  be  a  defect,  was  declared  by  another  to  be  a  beauty. 
And  after  she  had  been  painted  according  to  every  one''s  ideas,  no- 
thing could  be  perceived  but  ugliness  and  deformity ;  and  even  by 
the  light  of  the  sun,  there  could  not  be  discovered  any  trace  of  her 
original  beauty.  By  this  time  she  had  become  odious  and  dis- 
agreeable in  the  eyes  of  all  the  world,  and  there  were  none  left  who 
saw  any  charms  in  her,  and  none  visited  her ;  there  was  no  one 
who  did  not  close  his  eyes  at  the  sight  of  her,  regarding  her  as  the 


FABLES.  573 

most  disgustiug  creature  possible.  When  Geinan  perceived  that 
she  was  slighted,  and  wondered  what  the  reason  could  be  why 
nobody  solicited  her  hand  as  formerly,  she  went  and  looked  at 
herself  in  the  glass,  and  seeing  how  she  had  been  coloured  and 
painted,  she  was  astounded  at  what  had  been  done  to  her,  and  she 
became  very  indignant,  for  she  could  not  recognize  her  own  self; 
the  first  thought  that  came  into  her  mind  in  this  dilemma^  was  to 
go  and  wash  herself,  in  order  to  get  rid  of  the  stuff  with  which 
she  had  been  bedaubed.  When  this  was  done,  her  countenance 
resumed  its  wonted  beauty,  and  she  was  again  admired  as  before 
even  by  those  persons  who  would  have  altered  the  work  of  God, 
as  narrated  above;  and  those  persons,  although  they  did  not  love  her 
for  what  they  had  bestowed  upon  her,  but  pronounced  her  to 
be  ugly  and  forbidding,  yet  they  would  not  acknowledge  the  im- 
propriety of  what  had  been  done  by  them,  so  difficult  it  is  to  get 
a  fool  to  acknowledge  his  folly,  or  to  confess  his  fault ;  the  wise 
only  will  seek  to  amend.  So  it  is  as  respects  the  truth ;  every  man 
says  that  he  loves  the  truth,  and  yet  every  one  disfigures  it  accord- 
ing to  his  own  inclination,  until  it  altogether  assumes  the  form  of 
a  lie,  when  it  becomes  hated  by  all.  But  as  truth  is  always  anxious 
for  the  light,  it  will  despite  of  every  obstacle  rid  itself  at  last  of 
that  by  which  it  was  concealed,  and  appear  before  all  the  world, 
when  its  beauty  and  loveliness  will  again  as  of  old  bo  admired, 
save  and  except  by  those  who  would  have  had  it  marred  by  lies, 
and  its  beauty  destroyed  by  false  colouring.  And  it  may  be  said 
with  respect  to  men  of  this  character,  that  they  would  be  the  last 
persons  in  the  world  to  confess  their  guilt,  or  to  say  that  they  were 
in  error,  or  that  they  were  prejudiced  or  misled.  For  according  to 
the  proverb :  "  lie  will  not  acknowledge  his  fault,  who  has  pro- 
tested he  was  in  the  right. — lie  who  has  swoni  the  Crow  to  be 
white,  will  not  allow  she  is  black,  although  he  knows  as  well  as  any 
one  that  she  is  black.  He  that  deceives  others,  deceives  himself 
much  more. — All  seek  after  the  truth,  and  yet  they  will  not  suffer 
the  truth  to  be  truth. — He  that  is  in  the  habit  of  telling  a  lie,  will 
himself  at  last  believe  it  to  be  true.**^ 


574  FABLES. 


KING  ARTHUR  AND  THE  HANNER  DYN  * 
[By  Taliesii>9  says  lolo  Morganwg.] 

As  king  Arthur  was  walking  in  the  early  part  of  the  day,  on  the 
first  day  of  summer,  along  meadows  clad  in  green  and  covered  with 
sweet-scented  trefoils,  the  trees  being  in  full  blossom,  and  every 
flower  of  wood  and  mead  in  full  beauty  around  him,  and  tuneful  birds 
in  every  grove,  and  on  every  leafy  branch  in  every  glade,  within 
three  arrow  flights  of  the  royal  city  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk;  he 
being  rejoiced  in  heart,  to  feel  the  softness  and  sweetness  of  the 
air,  and  the  calm  of  early  radiance  of  the  brilliant  summer^s  day; 
King  Arthur  perceived  some  distant  object  approaching  with  w^k 
and  feeble  efibrts,  so  that  it  might  be  supposed  he  would  not  ad- 
vance as  much  as  three  steps  of  a  wren  within  a  year  and  a  day; 
but  King  Arthur,  casting  his  eyes  around  him  in  the  midst  of  his 
enjoyment,  did  not  the  least  regard  the  feeble  creature  he  had  seen 
afar,  and  which  appeared  to  be  on  the  point  of  death.     However, 
in  a  short  time  afterwards,   directing  his  attention  to  a  turn  in 
the  vale,  he  again  perceived  the  object  which  had  before  attracted 
his  notice   approaching  nearer  and  nearer  towards  him  by  nine 
parts  of  the  way,  and  more  rapidly,  although  still  weak  and  feeble. 
King  Arthur  looked  around,  but  continued  meditating  revenge  up- 
on the  Saxons  and  their  utter  extermination^  when  again  looking 
about,  he  perceived  the  abortive  form  of  the  Manner  Dyn  coming 
to  meet  him.  There  was  nothing  in  his  appearance  that  could  inti- 
midate king  Arthur,  who  continued  to  listen  to  the  songs  of  the 
birds,  until  the  Hanner  Dyn  was  close  to  him  and  in  his  presence, 
and  saluted  him,  "Good  day  to  thee.  King  Arthur.**^  "Good  day  to 
thee  also,  Hanner  Dyn;  what  wilt  thou?"  "I  would  wrestle  a  faQ 
with  thee."  "What  glory  should  I  gain,  by  wrestling  with  thee!"" 
And  king  Arthur  looked  down  again  on  the  flower-bearing  green 
sward.  "  Thou  wilt  repent,"  said  the  mis-shapen  figure,  and  returned. 
And  on  the  morrow  King  Arthur  repaired  to  the  same  spot,  and 
with  him  Trystan,  the  son  of  Tallwch,  and  Taliesin,  chief  of  the 
bards,  and  the  deformed  Hanner  Dyn  came  there  as  before,  and  sa- 


*  Literally,  Half  Man. 


FABLES.  575 

luted  and  derided  Arthur.  "Do  contend  with  him/**  said  Taliesin, 
"that  he  may  be  subdued  ere  he  becomes  a  perfect  man.'*''  "I 
shall  derive  no  glory  whatever,  by  contending  with  such  an  un- 
formed object/'  replied  King  Arthur,  who  walked  away  along  the 
meadows.  And  the  shapeless  being  challenged  Trystan;  and  Trys- 
tan,  by  the  counsel  of  Taliesin,  approached  him,  and  said,  "Why 
should  I  contend  with  thee,  and  for  what?"  "For  thy  head, 
Trystan,"  said  the  mis-shapen  figure.  Then  Trj'stan  by  Taliesin'^s 
advice  wrestled  with  him  and  threw  him  down.  "Thou  hast  won 
my  head,"  said  the  mis-shapen  figure.  "  Yes,"  replied  Trystan, 
"but  what  good  do  I  gain  by  that?"  "If  thou  wilt  let  me  have  it 
at  a  price,  thou  shalt  receive  a  ransom."  "I  desire  no  one'^s  head," 
replied  Trystan,  "but  to  lame  the  foot  of  him  that  is  more  swift 
than  just." 


THE  MOUSE  AND  THE  CAT. 

A  Mouse  of  old,  as  he  was  taking  a  walk  in  a  wine  tavern,  hap- 
pened by  an  unlucky  accident  to  fall  into  a  reservoir  of  wine  that 
was  in  front  of  the  vats,  and  there  he  cried  out  with  all  his  might 
for  help.  The  Cat  in  consequence  of  the  cries  hastened  to  the 
spot,  and  asked  wliat  was  the  cause;  the  Mouse  replied,  "Because 
I  am  in  danger  of  my  life,  and  I  cannot  extricate  myself  without 
assistance."  Then  asked  the  Cat,  "  What  wilt  thou  give  me  for  thy 
release,  provided  I  draw  thee  outf  "I  will  acce<le,"  replied  the 
Mouse,  "  to  whatever  terms  thou  mayest  propose."  Then  said  the 
Cat,  "  If  thou  wilt  that  I  should  assist  thee,  it  must  been  the  con- 
dition that  thou  wilt  come  to  me  the  verj-  first  time  that  I  shall 
call  thee."  "  I  will  do  it  cheerfully,"  replied  the  Mouse.  "  Give  me 
thy  pledge,"  said  the  Cat ;  and  the  Mouse  vowed,  he  would  do 
whatever  the  Cat  wished.  Then  the  Cat  stretched  down  his  paw, 
and  drew  the  Mouse  out  of  the  pool,  and  let  him  have  his  liberty 
to  run  away.  Now  it  happened  some  time  after,  that  as  the  Cat 
was  strolling  about,  and  being  exceedingly  hungry,  the  agreement 
between  him  and  the  Mouse  camo  to  his  recollection;  and  he  has- 
tened to  the  spot  where  ho  knew  the  Mouse^s  hiding  place  wa.%  and 
standing  outside,  he  called  out  ti)  the  utmost  extent  of  his  voice, 
and  sai<i,  ''Mouse  come  here  to  nie  ujK»n  business."  "Who  art 
thouT  askt'd  the  Mouse.  "  I  am  the  Cat,''  replied  he.  '-Didst  not 


Ö76  FABLES. 

thou  pledge  me  thy  vow,  that  thou  wouldest  come  to  me  the  very 
first  time  I  should  call  for  thee?"  "  Yes,""  said  the  Mouse,  "but  I 
was  then  drunk,  and  I  will  not  therefore  now  fulfil  my  agreemenU'^ 
Thus  many  people,  when  overcome  by  sickness,  or  exposed  to  dan- 
ger, promise  faithfully  to  amend,  and  that  they  will  not  again 
transgress;  but  when  they  escape  from  their  trouble,  they  will  not 
fulfil  any  of  their  promises,  saying,  "  Yes,  we  were  in»  danger 
then;**^  and  so  they  do  not  perform  their  promises;  as  is  related  of 
a  mariner,  who  was  overtaken  by  a  tempest,  and  being  in  great  dan- 
ger of  his  life,  made  a  solemn  vow  that  if  he  was  delivered  he 
would  be  a  good  man  ever  after  as  long  as  he  lived;  but  no  sooner 
had  the  vessel  been  brought  to  shore,  and  he  himself  safely  landed, 
than  he  exclaimed,  ''  Aha,  I  have  indeed  cheated  this  time,  1  will 
not  be  a  good  man  yet.*"* 


*  The  above  Fable  was  taken  from  a  MS.  in  the  hand-writing  of  lolo  Mor- 
ganwg,  who  transcribed  it  from  Owain  Myvyr's  Collection  of  Proverbs, 
wbicb  was  extracted  frt>m  an  ancient  MS.  on  parchment,  written  about  th« 
year  1300. 


ANCIENT  FABLES. 


I.    ENVY  BURNING  ITSELF. 

Talhaiarn  was  a  bard ;  and  a  learned,  wise,  and  good  man  was 
lie,  and  he  had  a  son  named  Tanwyn.  And  after  having  given  learn- 
ing to  that  son,  together  with  the  means  of  promoting  talent  and 
genius,  until  he  became  acquainted  with  art  and  science,  and  pos- 
sessed of  every  wisdom  and  praiseworthy  knowledge,  together  with 
conscienciousness  and  piety,  and  adorped  by  every  propriety  of 
conduct  towards  God  and  man,  one  day  Talhaiarn  called  his 
son  to  him,  and  spoke  to  him  thus.  "My  son  Tanwyn,  my 
only  and  beloved  son  art  thou,  I  have  loved  thee,  and  reared  thee, 
as  a  father  should  do  tow^ards  a  son  he  dearly  loved.  I  have  in- 
structed thee  in  every  science,  and  useful  learning,  and  in  every 
becoming  conduct,  that  would  make  thee,  as  I  thought,  a  man  ca- 
pable of  good  and  of  service  to  thy  country  and  race,  and  to  every 
living  being  of  the  world,  and  that  would  make  thee  one  that  every 
upright  man  would  rejoice  in  finding  ready  in  the  service  of  thy 
race  and  country;  and  above  all,  one  who  should  enjoy  the  favour 
of  God  in  this  world  and  in  the  world  to  come.  Thou  seest,  there- 
fore, that  I  have  performed  my  share,  and  fulfilled  my  duty  to- 
wards thee.  And  now  my  beloved  son,  I  have  neither  houses  nor 
land  for  tliee,  nor  gold  nor  silver,  nor  sumptuous  apparel,  nor  hors- 
es, nor  jewels  of  any  kind  whatever ;  therefore,  my  son,  I  am  ne- 
cessitated, contrary  to  my  affection  for  thee,  to  cause  thee  to  leave 
thy  father  and  his  house,  and  to  go  wherever  thou  mayest  be  led 
by  God  and  thy  destiny,  to  follow  thy  fortunes  and  earn  thy  live- 
lihood. There  is  neither  possibility  nor  need  for  giving  thee  in- 
struction and  counsel  further  than  I  have  done,  excepting  in  that 
which  I  now  say  to  thee,  namely ; — Travel  not  on  a  new  road  where 
there  is  no  broken  bridge  on  the  old  road. — Seek  not  power  where 
thou  canst  have  love  in  its  stead. — And  pass  not  by  the  place  where 
there  is  a  wise  and  pious  man  teaching  and  declaring  God'^s  word 
and  commandment,  without  stopping  to  listen  to  him."' 

•1  E 


578  FABLES. 

Then  Tanwyn  took  his  departure  from  his  father'^s  house,  after 
receiving  his  blessing,  and  prayer  to  God  for  him  ;  and  he  knew 
not  where  he  should  go,  excepting  that  he  went  under  the  guid- 
ance of  God,  and  his  destiny ;  until  he  came  to  a  long  and  even 
strand,  by  the  sea  side,  a  road  leading  across  it,  and  the  strand 
was  level  and  smooth;  and  Tanwyn  wrote  with  the  point  of  the 
staff  which  was  in   his   hand   these  words,  namely ; — "  Whoeo 
wishes  evil  to  his  neighbour,  to  himself  will  it  come/'*     And  a 
wealthy  and  powerful  nobleman  chanced  to  see  him  from  a  distance 
as  he  rode  to  meet  him.     And  after  they  had  passed  each  other 
with  a  civil  and  friendly  salutation,  the  nobleman  saw  the  writing 
on  the  sand ;  and  after  observing  its  elegance  and  correctness*  he 
turned  his  horse  round,  and  rode  hastily,  until  he  overtook  Tan- 
wyn. "Was  it thou,^^  said  the  nobleman,  "that  didst  write  on  the 
sandr     "Yes,^'  answered  Tanwyn.     "Let  me,'**  said  the  noble^ 
man,  "see  thee  writing  again.****     "I  will  do  so,****  said  Tanwyn. 
And  he  wrote,  more  elegantly  than  before,  these  words,   "  Manx's 
best  candle  is  discretion.****     "  Whither  art  thou  goingf**  said  the 
nobleman.    "Into  the  world  to  earn  my  livelihood,*"  said  Tanwyn, 
"wheresoever  and  howsoever  God  wills,  and  myself  am  able.^ 
"Thou,"'  said  the  nobleman,    "art  the  man  I  want;  wilt  thou 
come  with  me,  and  be  my  steward,  to  manage  my  property  and  my 
household,  and  thou  shalt  have  what  remuneration  thou  demand- 
cstr     "I  will,"  said  Tanwyn.      "  What  wages  dost  thou  askr 
said  the  nobleman.  "  Whatsoever  my  service  is  worth,****  said  Tan- 
wyn, "in  the  judgment  of  the  skilful  and  honest,  after  it  has  been 
performed.*"**     "  Very  well,""  said  the  nobleman.  "  That  is  the  fair- 
est arrangement  I  ever  heard  of.**"*     So  Tanwyn  went  along  with 
the  nobleman,  and  was  appointed  steward  of  his  property  and 
household.    And  Tanwyn  managed  every  thing  so  prudently,  and 
conducted  himself  so  uprightly,  and  answered  all  enquiries  so  cor- 
rectly, that  ho  was  beloved  by  the  nobleman,  and  by  all  his  house- 
hold.    And  when  the  time  came  to  pay  his  wages,  the  noblemaa 
left  the  matter  to  such  of  his  attendants  as  were  skilful  and  up- 
right men.     And  they  awarded  to  Tanwyn  twice  as  much  wages, 
as  any  other  person  any  where  gave  to  the  best  in  his  service. 
And  when  the  nobleman  heard  of  the  award,  he  made  the  wages 
twice  as  great  as  the  award.  And  in  the  course  of  time,  Tanwyn*** 
fame  became  so  great  for  wisdom,  and  benevolence,  and  justice,  and 
for  all  useful  and  valuable  knowledge;  that  he  would  not  exerci» 
power  over  any  one,  but  retain  the  love  of  all;  practising  kindne» 


FABLES.  579 

and  justice,  and  teaching  wisdom  and  justice  wheresoever  he  went, 
upon  every  occasion  and  at  every  leisure  he  possessed,  according 
to  the  advice  his  father  had  given  him. 

The  nobleman  was  a  wise  and  prudent  man,  and  knowing,  and 
discreet ;  but  when  he  saw  that  Tanwyn'*s  fame  was  higher  than 
his  own,  for  all  honourable  actions  and  knowledge,  he  became  en- 
vious of  him;  and  observing  day  by  day  the  fame  of  his  servant 
increasing,  and  his  own  fame  diminishing,  he  had  recourse  to  stra- 
tagems, and  found  persons  to  accuse  Tanwyn  of  treachery,  and 
injustice,  and  dishonesty.  But  Tanwyn,  by  mere  discretion  and 
wisdom,  brought  the  perjuries  to  light,  so  that  the  perjurers  were 
by  the  judgment  of  the  land  and  the  law  condemned,  and  all  of 
them  hanged. 

After  this  the  nobleman  became  more  and  more  angry  with 
Tanwyn,  though  with  so  little  cause,  and  meditated  his  death.  He 
at  that  time  had  a  limekiln  at  work,  and  he  went  early  in  the 
morning  to  the  lime-burners,  and  said  to  them  thus :  "  There  is  a 
man,**^  said  he,  ''who  is  my  enemy,  and  purposes  to  bring  a  foreign 
chieftain  in  a  hostile  manner  into  my  dominion,  and  to  dispossess 
me  of  my  land  and  property,  and  my  friends  and  faithful  servants, 
and  to  carry  away  captive  all  of  you  together  with  myself,  and  to 
make  numbers  of  us  objects  of  vengeance  before  the  country,  espe- 
cially you  and  others  of  my  faithful  people,  whom  I  love  best  of 
all.  He  Is  at  this  time  on  a  visit  to  me;  and  if  he  could  be  put  to 
death,  it  would  bo  a  good  thing,  and  safety  to  us  all.'^  Upon  which 
the  lime-burners  swore  they  would  burn  him  in  the  kiln,  if  they 
knew  who  he  was.  ''  You  shall  know  that,"*"  said  the  nobleman, 
"by  this  token,  namely,  the  first  that  comes  to  you,  after  I  leave 
you,  along  the  road  I  came  from  my  house  here,  and  makes  you 
presents,  that  will  be  the  person,  throw  him  into  the  kiln,  and  af- 
ter that  I  will  bring  you  more  presents  in  my  hands  to  reward 
you.""     And  this  was  agreed  upon. 

Then  the  nobleman  went  to  his  house,  and  called  Tanwyn  to 
him,  and  said  to  him  thus.  "  I  have,""  said  he,  "men  burning 
lime  at  the  kiln,  at  the  head  of  the  new  road,  go  along  that  road 
and  to  them,  and  pay  them  their  hire  in  gold  and  silver;  and  give 
them  over  and  above  their  demands,  in  liberality  according  as 
thou  art  disposed,  and  give  them  ale  and  mea<l  as  much  as  they 
like;  and  go  along  the  new  road.**'  Tanwyn  was  silent,  thinkinti: 
of  the  advice  of  his  father,  Talhaiarn ;  and  he  took  in  his  hands 
gold  and  silver,  and  a  vessel  of  mead,  and  that  to  a  liberal  amount 


580  FABLES. 

according  to  his  lorcf's  instructions ;  and  he  went  towards  the  lime- 
kiln, but  along  the  old  road,  according  to  his  father'^s  injunction. 
And  whilst  on  his  way,  he  heard  in  a  house,  near  the  road,  a 
wise  and  pious  man,  preaching  the  word  of  God,  and  his  wisdom. 
And  Tanwyn  turned  in  to  listen  to  him,  and  remained  there  some 
time,  where  he  heard  the  voice  of  godliness  and  wisdom.  Mean 
while,  the  nobleman,  concluding  that  by  that  time  it  was  not  pos- 
sible but  that  Twanwyn  must  be  reduced  to  ashes,  bethought  him 
of  going  to  the  kiln,  to  see  and  hear  how  it  befell.  At  this  time 
there  were  none  but  strange  workmen  placed  by  order  of  the  lime- 
burners  at  the  kiln,  who  were  not  acquainted  with  the  nobleman, 
and  they  having  received  orders  and  injunctions  from  their  em- 
ployers ;  and  as  the  nobleman  was  behaving  liberally  to  them,  and 
had  come  along  the  new  road,  they  without  one  word  from  either 
of  them  threw  him  into  the  kiln,  and  burnt  him  to  ashes.  And 
in  the  course  of  a  short  time,  behold  Tanwyn  came  to  the  kiln 
with  his  gold  and  silver,  and  his  vessel  of  mead. 

II.     ENVY  BURNING  ITSELF. 

[Another  version.] 

CwTTA  Kyvarwydd,  of  Glamorgan,  had  a  son  named  Howel; 
who  was  brought  up  by  his  father  in  every  honourable  acquire- 
ment, and  in  every  knowledge  beneficial  to  man.  And  Howel  af- 
ter arriving  at  man'^s  estate  was  desirous  of  quitting  his  father^s 
house,  and  following  his  fortunes  about  the  world.  And  at  parting, 
his  father  gave  him  this  advice,  namely,  never  to  pass  by  the 
preaching  of  God'*s  word  without  stopping  to  listen.  So  Howel  de- 
parted; and  after  travelling  a  considerable  way,  he  came  to  the  sea 
shore,  where  the  road  lay  over  a  long  smooth  and  level  beach. 
And  Howel,  with  the  point  of  his  staff,  wrote  on  the  sand  the  fol- 
lowing old  proverb.  "  Whoso  wishes  evil  to  his  neighbour,  to  him- 
self will  it  come."*^  And  as  he  was  writing  it,  behold  a  powerful 
nobleman  overtook  him  ;  and  on  seeing  the  beauty  of  the  writing, 
he  knew  that  Howel  was  not  a  common  rustic,  and  he  asked  him 
from  whence  he  came,  and  who  he  was,  and  whither  he  was  going. 
And  Howel  gave  him  courteous  answers  to  all  he  had  asked  him. 
And  the  nobleman  admired  him  much,  and  asked  him  if  he  would 
come  and  live  with  him  as  his  domestic  clerk,  in  order  to  manage 
for  him  all  matters  of  learning  and  knowledge;  and  he  promised 


FABLES.  581 

him  a  salary  suitable  to  a  gentleman.  So  Howel  agreed  with  him, 
and  went  to  live  with  him.  And  all  the  noblemen  and  knights 
who  came  to  visit  this  nobleman,  were  amazed  at  the  learning  and 
wisdom  of  Howel;  and  praised  him  greatly,  inasmuch  as  that  the 
nobleman  harboured  envy  towards  him,  for  excelling  him  so  vastly 
in  wisdom,  and  learning,  and  good  breeding. 

Howel's  fame  increased  daily,  and  in  the  same  measure  did  the 
envy  of  the  nobleman,  his  master,  increase;  until  at  last  he 
thought  of  putting  Howel  to  death.  And  one  day  he  complained 
to  his  lady,  of  the  great  evil  and  disrespect  that  Howel  had  caused 
him;  and  he  counselled  with  her  about  slaying  him.  And  she,  in  her 
great  aflfection  for  him,  bethought  her  of  the  mode  of  effecting  that. 
The  nobleman  had  on  his  property,  lime-burners,  burning  lime;  and 
the  lady  went  to  them,  and  gave  them  a  large  sum  of  gold,  upon  con- 
dition of  their  throwing  into  the  kiln  the  first  person  who  should 
come  to  them  with  a  vessel  of  mead;  and  they  promised  to  do  so; 
and  the  lady  when  she  returned  home,  mentioned  the  stratagem  to 
the  nobleman,  her  husband;  and  they  filled  a  large  vessel  with  mead, 
and  ordered  Howel  to  take  it  to  the  lime-burners.  And  Howel  took 
the  vessel  and  carried  it  towards  the  kiln;  and  on  the  way  he 
heard  in  a  house,  an  old  and  godly  man,  reading  the  word  of  God; 
and  he  turned  in  to  listen  to  him,  and  remained  there  a  consider- 
able time,  according  to  his  father's  advice.  And  after  this  delay, 
the  nobleman  concluded  that  Howel  was  by  this  time  burnt  in  the 
kiln ;  so  he  took  another  vessel  of  mead  as  a  reward  to  the  lime- 
burners;  and  when  he  came  to  the  kiln,  ho  was  seized  by  the  lime- 
burners,  and  thrown  into  the  fire  in  the  kiln,  and  burnt  there. 

As  he  was  being  put  to  death,  Howel  came  there  with  his  vessel 
of  mead,  and  seeing  his  lord  thus  slain,  he  brought  the  lime-burn- 
ers before  a  justice,  and  then  they  confessed  how  they  had  been 
bribed  by  the  nobleman,  to  burn  the  first  who  should  come  to  them 
with  a  vessel  of  mead,  and  that  the  nobleman  himself  was  that  per- 
son; and  after  examining  the  lady,  the  truth  was  discovered.  And 
thus  did  Envy  burn  itself;  and  the  word  of  God  was  the  preser- 
vation and  protection  of  him  who  resj)ected  it. 


III.    REVENGE. 

WnKN  Cynks,  the  son  of  [GlywvM,)  was  lord  of  Glamorgan,  he 
h«ul  a  son  named  Ouloc,  an  e.v.'ecding  pious  man.  and  a  saint  of 


582  FABLES. 

the  college  of  lUtyd.     One  day  as  he  was  in  his  father's  house,  a 
tinker  came  by,  and  requested  to  be  allowed  to  burnish  the  gold 
and  silver  jewels  of  the  lord  Cynlas ;  and  after  finishing  his  work, 
his  pack  being  open,  a  young  woman,  a  servant  there,  took  a  silver 
cup,  and  put  it  in  the  tinker'^s  pack,  concealed  beneath  his  tools; 
and  so  the  tinker  shut  up  his  pack  and  departed.     Gadoc  chanced 
to  see  all  that  was  done.     After  missing  the  cup,  the  tinker  was 
pursued,  and  the  cup  was  found  in  his  pack,  and  he  was  put  in 
prison.     But  Gadoc  thought  within  himself  thus,  that  Qod  who  is 
altogether  just  would  not  permit  the  innocent  and  unoffending 
tinker  to  be  punished ;  but  would  cause  him  to  be  delivered  bom 
the  punishment  and  the  disgrace.  However  the  time  of  trial  came, 
and  the  tinker  was  found  guilty,  and  hanged.     And  when  Gadoc 
saw  this  he  thought  that  there  was  no  God,  or  else  that  he  was  not 
just,  for  allowing  the  innocent  and  guiltless  tinker  to  be  wrong- 
fully hanged.     Therefore  he  fell  into  unbelief  respecting  God  and 
goodness,  and  he  set  his  mind  upon  the  pleasures  and  enjoyments 
of  the  world  in  every  way  it  could  be  obtained,  without  regarding 
either  religion  or  law. 

And  after  all  his  property  was  spent  he  took  a  horse  and  arms, 
and  went  into  a  wood  through  which  there  was  a  highway,  along 
which  wealthy  persons  often  travelled,  with  the  intention  of  robbing 
all  who  should  come  that  way.  And  after  taking  up  his  station  in 
the  wood,  he  saw,  as  it  were,  an  aged  and  wealthy  nobleman  com- 
ing armed  along  the  road.  But  Gadoc  being  a  daring  man,  in  the 
prime  of  manhood,  went  to  meet  the  nobleman,  and  demanded  his 
gold  and  silver  without  delay  or  refusal.  "Thou  shalt  not  have 
them,'^  said  the  nobleman,  "although  thou  art  young  and  I  old,  I 
will  contend  with  thee  for  my  property,  by  force  of  arms  and 
courage."  "Very  well,'"  said  Gadoc,  "I  am  ready.'*'  "But," 
said  the  old  man,  "  first  of  all  let  us  dig  each  his  grave,  in  order 
that  there  may  be  a  place  ready  to  bury  the  one  that  is  slain,  so 
that  there  may  be  nothing  more  heard  of  him.'"  "With  all  my 
heart,^  said  Gadoc.  So  they  set  about  digging,  each  his  grave; 
and  by  digging  there  were  found  in  each  of  the  graves  a  man's 
bones.  "  Behold,"''  said  the  old  man,  "these  are  the  bones  of  two 
men  who  were  murdered  for  their  property  by  the  tinker  who  stole 
thy  father's  cup ;  and  one  of  them  was  tlie  father  of  the  girl  who 
put  the  cup  in  the  pack;  and  by  this  see  that  God  is  just,  and 
that  he  will  not  suffer  the  wicked  to  escape  unpunished;  but  the 
most  tardy  vengeance  is  that  of  God,  and  the  completest  vengeance 


FABLES.  583 

is  that  of  God.  TIiou  didst  see  the  putting  of  the  cup  in  the 
pack;  but  thou  didst  not  receive  power  and  permission  of  God  to 
mention  it,  because  it  was  his  will  to  punish  the  tinker.  And 
henceforth  understand  this  instruction,  namely^  that  thou  canst 
not  perceive  the  manner  in  which  God  brings  into  operation  his 
justice,  nor  his  wisdom,  nor  his  mercy;  leave  God  to  his  own 
wisdom,  for  it  is  not  for  man  to  judge  him  in  the  exalted  wis- 
dom of  his  arrangements,  and  his  incomprehensible  knowledge; 
and  behold  his  mercy  in  saving  thee  from  punishment,  by  sending 
me  to  rescue  thee,  and  to  teach  thee  when  thou  didst  deserve  no- 
thing but  the  gallows  on  which  the  tinker  was  hanged.  God  is  too 
bright  for  man  to  look  upon  him  and  see  him;  and  so  are  his 
works  and  providence.*"  And  with  these  words,  Gadoc  could  see 
him  as  a  young  man  of  most  comely  aspect,  and  the  most  beauti- 
ful he  had  ever  seen,  and  by  that  he  knew  that  he  was  an  angel 
from  heaven. 

He  then  returned  home;  and  after  becoming  possessed  of  wealth, 
he  made  compensation  to  all  for  the  wrong  he  had  done  them,  and 
gave  liberally  to  the  poor,  and  relinquished  the  lordship,  and  built 
a  college  in  Llancarvan  for  three  hundred  saints,  and  they  were 
greatly  celebrated  for  their  piety  and  almsgiving;  choosing  the 
service  of  God  before  all  worldly  happiness  and  enjoyment,  count- 
ing the  wealth  and  honour  of  the  world  as  nothing  in  comparison 
with  God  and  godliness. 


IV.    THE  OWL,  THE  DOVE,  AND  THE  BAT, 

As  the  Dove  and  the  Owl  were  once  on  a  journey  together,  they 
came  towards  the  dusk  of  night  to  an  old  barn,  where  they  deter- 
mined to  lodge  that  night.  In  that  old  barn  was  the  chief  of  a 
tribe  of  Bats  witli  his  family  residing,  and  after  seeing  these 
strangers  he  invited  them  to  sup  with  him.  And  after  eating  and 
drinking  sufficiently  of  choice  viands,  and  strong  drinks,  the  Owl 
arose  and  began  to  laud  the  chief  in  this  manner,  saying:  "O 
most  noble  Bat,  vast  is  thy  liberality;  thy  fame  is  unutterable.  I 
do  not  consider  any  to  be  e(iual  to  thee,  and  thy  splendid  family. 
Nor  do  I  know  thy  compeer  in  learning  and  literary  knowledge. 
Thou  art  more  v<iliant  than  the  eagle,  and  more  handsome  and 
beautiful  than  the  peacock,  and  thy  voice  is  more  melodious  than 
that  of  the  nightingale.""    The  Bat  was  exceeding  proud  of  the  en- 


584  FABLES. 

comium.  And  now  he  expected  that  the  Dove  should  address  him 
in  a  similar  manner;  but  the  Dove  sat  at  the  table  in  silence, 
without  taking  any  notice  of,  or  making  any  remark  upon,  what 
was  said  by  the  Owl;  but  by-and-by,  she  turned  and  courteooslj 
thanked  the  chief  of  the  Bats  for  his  hospitality  and  his  liberality, 
without  giving  any  further  commendation.  Upon  this,  lo,  the 
whole  family  looked  angrily  on  the  Dove,  and  cast  a  frown  upon 
her,  and  blamed  her  unmaunerliness,  and  taunted  her  with  her 
want  of  good  breeding,  and  her  boorishness,  in  not  lauding  the 
chief  of  the  family  in  a  genteel  and  courteous  manner,  as  the  Owl 
had  done;  and  all  that  the  Dove  said  was  that  she  hated  flattery. 
And  all  the  party  became  enraged,  and  they  beat  and  wounded 
her,  and  turned  her  out  in  the  depth  of  a  dark  and  stormy  night, 
to  starve  and  shiver  till  the  dawn  broke.  And  then  she  flew  to 
the  eagle,  and  complained  of  the  Bats  and  the  Owl.  Upon  which 
the  eagle  swore  that  if  the  Bat  and  the  Owl  should  ever  after  show 
themselves  by  day,  all  the  birds  of  the  world  should  maltreat 
and  disrespect  them  ;  and  he  granted  the  Doves  for  ever  after  that 
they  should  aggregate  together,  and  he  loved  and  respected  them 
greatly  from  thenceforward,  on  account  of  their  sincerity  and 
truth ;  but  a  flock  of  Bats  or  of  Owls  w.is  never  seen  since  then. 
Here  is  lespect  crowning  undeceiving  truth,  and  disrespect  and 
disgrace  fetterinor  adulation. 


V.  THE  GOATS,  AND  THE  SHEEP,  AND  THE  WOLVES. 

A  War  broke  out  formerly  betwixt  the  Ooats  and  the  Sheep; 
and  the  Sheep,  in  fear  and  weakheartedness,  thought  that  the 
Wolves  were  fierce  enemies  to  the  Goats,  without  considering  that 
they  were  also  equally  fierce  towards  themselves,  the  Sheep.  So 
the  Sheep  requested  their  aid  against  the  Goats;  which  was  grant- 
ed on  condition  that  the  Wolves  should  have  all  the  Goats  that 
should  be  slain  in  the  battle.  And  thus  it  was  agreed,  and  to  war 
they  went;  and  all  the  Goats  that  were  killed^  and  all  the  spoil  the 
Wolves  took  possession  of;  and  great  and  luxurious  were  the 
feasts  they  made  upon  the  flesh  of  the  Goats,  and  they  glutted 
themselves  exceedingly,  and  great  was  the  revelry.  But  when  their 
provisions  were  finished,  the  Wolves  bethought  them  of  next  fall- 
ing upon  the  Sheep;  and  so  they  did,  and  selected  the  best  lambs 


FABLES.  585 

and  the  fattest  wethers  of  the  whole  fold,  in  order  to  enjoy  the 
dainty  luxuries  they  coveted.  The  Sheep  then  complained  of 
this  wrong,  and  of  the  injury  they  suffered;  but  they  obtained  no 
advantage  from  the  complaint;  but  the  Wolves  asserted  that  the 
Sheep  had  first  violated  the  principles  of  the  treaty.  And  the 
Sheep  saw,  when  too  late,  their  senselessness  and  folly,  in  thus 
ever  making  an  agreement  with  the  Wolves;  and  sorry  were  they 
ever  after  that  they  had  requested  the  aid  of  those  merciless  and 
ravenous  monsters ;  inasmuch  as  they  would  not  have  left  one  of 
them  alive  excepting  for  the  purpose  of  rearing  a  breed,  in  order 
to  have  continual  dainties,  and  savoury  messes.  And  so  may  it 
always  befall  those  who  are  so  short  their  foresight  as  those  Sheep. 


VI.    THE  WILD  HORSE. 

Formerly  there  was  a  young  Wild  Horse  in  the  woods  of 
Glyndaronwy.  And  one  morning  he  came  as  far  as  the  border 
of  Dolgynon;  and  in  a  high-grown  pasture,  he  saw  a  tame  Horse 
grazing  clover,  and  flowering  hay-grass,  and  drinking  water  from 
a  purling  rill,  that  flowed  like  a  stream  of  molten  silver,  between 
two  meadows,  full  of  the  perfumed  blossoms  of  the  fresh  verdure  of 
May.  Said  he,  "How  foolish  I  am  to  pass  my  life  in  yonder 
brakey  woods,  where  I  have  nothing  but  coarse,  ill-flavoured  grass 
to  eat,  and  where  I  have  no  better  delicacies  than  sprigs  of  trees 
to  chew,  and  that  with  long  trouble  in  biting  them;  and  where  I 
am  compelled  to  drink  of  a  foul  puddle  that  never  smiled  in  the 
face  of  the  sun,  that  trickles  benoath  the  shadow  of  leaf-shedding 
bushes,  along  a  muddy  soil.  I  will  go  to  yonder  bright-green  mea- 
dow to  graze  the  trefoils  and  the  summer-grown  hay-grass,  and  to 
drink  of  the  clear-streamed  sunny-visaged  rill,  and  to  sleep  in 
in  a  soft  and  easy  bed  of  slender  straw,  scented  with  fragrant  blos- 
soms; and  I  will  live  like  a  gentleman,  as  is  fitting  my  descent; 
and  I  will  no  more  go  amongst  the  rustic  boorish  Horses  that  seek 
yonder  wildernesses,  where  there  is  neither  learning,  nor  wealth, 
nor  any  enjoyment  whatever;**^  and  with  that  he  sprung  forward 
with  a  mighty  bound,  and  darted  like  lightning  across  the  bristling 
com,  with  a  vigorous  pace,  and  with  an  inordinate  appetite ;  and 
when  he  had  reached  the  level  ground  of  the  grassy  valley,  he  cast 
a  proud  contemptuous  look  towards  the  woods  where  his  relatives 

4  r 


586  FABLES. 

and  friends  were  remaining.  '' Spiritless  wretches,'^  said  1m, 
^'  wherefore  do  ye  love  that  rude  and  wild  desert  ?  Be  eoanigeoiis 
like  me,  and  enjoy  the  pleasure  and  ease  which  exist  in  this  de- 
lightful place.""  Then  answered  an  old  sensible  and  knowing  Hone, 
who  had  seen  many  of  the  troubles  and  changes  of  the  world,  and 
had  seen  many  a  thoughtless  younker  enduring  grieyoos  distratf 
on  account  of  his  inconsiderate  folly;  said  he,  ''  It  is,  as  yet,  too 
soon  for  thee  to  rejoice,  inasmuch  as  thou  seest  not  the  misery 
that  is  united  to  that  delusive  joy;  and  if  thou  wilt  follow 
the  advice  of  one  who  loves  thee,  come  out  from  thence  quickly, 
and  do  not  delay  to  bestir  thyself;  a  captive  horse  is  the  one  then 
seest  yonder,  in  whose  happiness  thou  desirest  to  partake;  and  a 
captive  wilt  thou  be  thyself  unless  thou  hurriest  thence  with  all 
the  power  of  thy  mind  and  hoof.""  But  the  young  Horse  laughed 
in  contempt,  and  turned  away  with  uplifted  nostril,  and  did  not  lis- 
ten to  the  prudent  advice  of  the  old  sensible  horse.  And  he  was 
not  long  before  the  owner  of  the  meadow  came  with  his  bear-dogs, 
and  bloodhounds,  together  with  his  servants,  and  their  rope  nets, 
who  caught  and  bridled  him  and  put  a  pack-saddle  on  him ;  and  the 
next  day  he  was  compelled  to  go  to  carry  wood  and  fuel  from  the 
grove  where  he  had  formerly  been  roaming  about,  and  possessing 
every  cheerful  enjoyment,  free  and  unrestrained,  without  knowing 
what  it  was  to  carry  the  heavy  load  of  the  captive  horse.  The  end. 


VIL    THE  NIGHTINGALE  AND  THE  LARK. 

The  Nightingale  formerly  became  exceeding  proud  on  account 
of  her  melodious  voice,  and  every  bird  flattered  her  and  called  her 
the  "  Angel  of  the  wood.""  and  the  "  Goddess  of  the  foliage,''  and 
practised  towards  her  a  vast  deal  of  adulation.  And  the  blackbird 
came  to  make  love  to  her,  and  he  expressed  his  affection  for  her  in 
melodious  strains  and  carols ;  and  declared  his  love  in  many  a 
tender  ode^  and  truthful  sonnet.  And  the  thrush  depicted  to  the 
Nightingale  what  an  excellent  person  the  blackbird  was;  how 
great  his  learning  and  instruction,  and  how  true  and  gentle  a 
youth  he  was.  Said  the  Nightingale,  "  Thou  mayest  as  well  leave 
off  thy  chattering  and  talk,  I  will  have  a  more  valiant  and  wariike, 
and  á  more  princely  person  than  the  blackbird."  Upon  this  the 
thrush  became  angry  with  her,  and  so  didall  the  other  birds  that 


FABLES.  587 

were  her  friends,  namely,  the  hirk,  and  the  linnet,  and  the 
cuckow,  and  many  more  of  the  gentle  birds  that  desired  her  wel- 
fare, and  they  departed  suddenly. 

When  they  were  gone,  the  hawk  came  to  her,  and  addressed  her 
thus.  ^^Thou  Goddess  of  the  woody  dell,  and  Inspirer  of  the 
grores,  wise  and  prudent  wast  thou  in  not  listening  to  the  base  ad- 
yisers,  who  would  pervert  thy  virtuous  mind  to  their  own  miserly 
and  sordid  profit,  without  regarding  thy  happiness ;  I  am  the  prince 
of  the  birds,  and  I  sit  on  the  right  hand  of  the  eagle;  and  long 
have  I  been  enduring  pain  and  anxiety  in  my  heart  for  thee;  not 
equal  to  thy  melody  and  chant  is  that  of  any  organ  or  harp;  and 
a  frightful  bellowing  is  the  sweetest  voice  and  song  of  the  most  tune- 
ful birds  where  thou  art.  Impossible  is  it  for  me  to  declare  how  great 
is  my  affection  for  thee;  neither  is  it  possible  for  me  to  be  happy 
if  thou  wilt  not  love  me;  permit  me  to  approach  thee  with  courte- 
ous speech,  and  sincere  heart,  that  I  may  declare  my  love  and 
anxiety.  Condescending  and  courteous  is  thy  mind,  and  tender 
is  thy  disposition,  and  there  is  none  who  knows  thy  like.''^ 

The  Nightingale  was  proud  to  hear  herself  flattered  in  this  man- 
ner; and  without  considering  his  nature,  she  invited  him  to  her. 
««Come  nearer,'*^  said  she  to  the  hawk;  ''for  I  understand  that 
thou  art  an  honourable  gentleman,  excellent  is  thy  good-breeding, 
and  extensive  thy  knowledge ;  I  will  listen  to  thy  wise  counsel, 
and  thy  gentle  speech.**" 

So  the  hawk  drew  near  to  her,  and  he  then  qickly  snatched  her 
off,  and  killed  and  devoured  her.  And  so  may  it  be  to  all  who  will 
not  follow  the  advice  of  their  friends,  and  who  trust  to  flatterers, 
and  reject  the  honourable  offers  of  the  truly  wise.     The  end. 


Vni.    EINION  AP  GWALCHMAI  AND  THE  LADY 
OF  THE  GREEN-WOOD. 


EiNioN,  the  son  of  Gwalchmai,  the  son  of  Meilir,  of  Treveilir  in 
Anglesey,  married  Angharad,  the  daughter  of  Ednyved  Vychan. 
And  as  he  was  one  fine  summer-morning  walking  in  the  Woods  of 
Treveilir,  he  beheld  a  graceful  slender  lady  of  elegant  growth,  and 
delicate  feature ;  and  her  complexion  surpassing  every  white  and 
red  in  the  morning  dawn,  and  the  mountain  snow,  and  every 
beautiful  colour  in  the  blossoms  of  wood,  field,  and  hill.    And  then 


588  FABLES. 

he  felt  in  his  heart  an  inconceivable  commotion  of  affection,  and 
he  approached  her  in  a  courteous  manner,  and  she  also  approached 
him  in  the  same  manner ;  and  he  saluted  her,  and  she  returned  his 
salutation ;  and  by  these  mutual  salutations  he  perceived  that  his 
society  was  not  disagreeable  to  her.  He  then  chanced  to  cast  his 
eye  upon  her  foot,  and  he  saw  that  she  had  hoofs  instead  of  feet, 
and  he  became  exceedingly  dissatisfied.  But  she  told  him  that  his 
dissatisfaction  was  all  in  vain.  "Thou  must,''  said  she,  ^^followme 
wheresoever  I  go,  as  long  as  I  continue  in  my  beauty,  for  this  is 
the  consequence  of  our  mutual  affection.''  Then  he  requested  of  her 
permission  to  go  to  his  house  to  take  leave  of,  and  say  Eurewell  to 
his  wife,  Angharad,  and  his  son  Einion.  "  I,"  said  she,  *^  shall  be 
with  thee,  invisible  to  all  but  to  thyself;  go  visit  thy  wife  and  thy 
son." 

So  he  went,  and  the  goblin  went  with  him;  and  when  he  saw 
Angharad,  his  wife,  he  saw  her  a  hag-like  one  grown  old,  but  he 
retained  the  recollection  of  days  past,  and  still  felt  extreme  affecti- 
on for  her,  but  he  was  not  able  to  loose  himself  from  the  bond  in 
which  he  was.  "  It  is  necessary  for  me,"  said  he,  "  to  part  for  a 
time,  I  know  not  how  long,  from  thee  Angharad,  and  from  thee 
my  son  Einion,  and  they  wept  together,  and  broke  a  gold  ring  be- 
tween them;  he  kept  one  half,  and  Angharad  the  other;  and  they 
took  their  leave  of  each  other,  and  he  went  with  the  Lady  of  the 
Wood,  and  knew  not  where;  for  a  powerful  illusion  was  upon  him, 
and  he  saw  not  any  place,  or  person,  or  object,  under  its  true  and 
proper  appearance,  excepting  the  half  of  the  ring  alone. 

And  after  being  a  long  time,  he  knew  not  how  long,  with  the 
goblin,  the  Lady  of  the  Wood,  he  looked  one  morning  as  the  son 
was  rising  upon  the  half  of  the  ring,  and  he  bethought  him  to 
place  it  in  the  most  precious  place  he  could,  and  he  resolved  to  put 
it  under  his  eyelid;  and  as  he  was  endeavouring  to  do  so,  he  could 
see  a  man  in  white  apparel,  and  mounted  on  a  snow-white  horse, 
coming  towards  him,  and  that  person  asked  him  what  he  did  there; 
and  he  told  him  that  he  was  cherishing  an  afflicting  remembrance 
of  his  wife  Angharad.  '•  Dost  thou  desire  to  see  her,'*'  said  the 
man  in  white.  "  I  do,"  said  Einion,  "  above  all  things,  and  all 
happiness  of  the  world."  -'If  so/'  said  the  man  in  white,  "get  up- 
on this  horse,  behind  me;"  and  that  Einion  did,  and  looking 
around  he  could  not  see  any  appearance  of  the  Lady  of  the  Wood, 
the  goblin;  excepting  the  track  of  hoofs  of  marvellous  and  mon- 
strous size,  as  if  journeying  towards  the  north.     "  What  delusion 


FABLES.  689 

art  thon  under  !^  said  the  man  in  white.  Then  Einion  answered 
him  and  told  every  thing,  how  it  occurred  betwixt  him  and  the 
goblin.  ^^  Take  tlds  white  staff  in  thy  hand/**  said  the  man  in 
whitel;  and  Einion  took  it.  And  the  man  in  white  told  him,  to 
desire  whatever  he  wished  for.  The  first  thing  he  desired  was  to 
see  the  Lady  of  the  Wood,  for  he  was  not  yet  completely  delivered 
from  the  illusion.  And  then  she  appeared  to  him  in  size  a  hide- 
ous and  monstrous  witch,  a  thousand  times  more  repulsive  of  as- 
pect than  the  most  frightful  things  seen  upon  earth.  And  Einion 
uttered  a  cry  from  terror;  and  the  man  in  white  cast  his  cloak  over 
Einion,  and  in  less  than  a  twinkling  Einion  alighted  as  he  wished 
on  the  hill  of  Treveilir,  by  his  own  house,  where  he  knew  scarcely 
any  one,  nor  did  any  one  know  him. 

After  the  goblin  had  left  Einion,  the  son  of  Gwalchmai,  she  went 
to  Treveilir  in  the  form  of  an  honourable  and  powerful  nobleman, 
elegantly  and  sumptuously  apparelled,  and  possessed  of  an  incal- 
culable amount  of  gold  and  silver;  and  also  in  the  prime  of  life, 
that  is  thirty  years  of  age.  And  he  placed  a  letter  in  Angharad'^s 
hand,  in  which  it  was  stated  that  Einion  had  died  in  Norway, 
more  than  nine  years  before,  and  he  then  exhibited  his  gold  and 
wealth  to  Angharad ;  and  she,  having  in  the  course  of  time  lost 
much  of  her  regret,  listened  to  his  affectionate  address.  And  the 
illusion  fell  upon  her ;  and  seeing  that  she  should  become  a  noble 
lady,  higher  than  any  in  Wales,  she  named  a  day  for  her  marriage 
with  him.  And  there  was  a  great  preparation  of  everj-  elegant  and 
sumptuous  kind  of  apparel,  and  of  moats  and  drinks,  and  of  every 
honourable  guest,  and  every  excellence  of  song  and  string,  and 
every  preparation  of  banquet  and  festive  entertainment.  And 
when  the  honourable  nobleman  saw  a  particularly  beautiful  harp 
in  Angharad's  room,  ho  wished  to  have  it  played  on;  and  the 
harpers  present,  the  best  in  Wales,  tried  to  put  it  in  tune,  and 
were  not  able.  And  when  every  thing  was  made  ready  for  to  pro- 
ceed to  church  to  be  married,  Einion  came  into  the  house^  and 
Angharad  saw  him  as  an  old  decrepit,  withered,  gray-haired  man, 
stooping  with  age,  and  dresácd  in  rags,  and  she  asked  him  if  he 
would  turn  the  spit  whilst  the  meat  was  roasting.  '*  I  will,^  said 
he,  and  went  about  the  work  with  his  white  staff  in  his  hand  after 
the  manner  of  a  man,  carrying  a  pilgrim's  staff.  And  after  din- 
ner had  been  prepared,  and  all  the  minstrels  failing  to  put  the  harp 
in  tune  for  Angharad,  Einion  got  up  and  took  it  in  his  hand,  and 
tuned  it,  and  played  on  it  the  air  which  Angharad  loved.  And  she 


590  FABLES. 

maryelled  exceedingly,  and  asked  him  who  he  was.     And  he  aa 
wered  in  song  and  stanza  thus : 

^^  Einion  the  golden-hearted  am  I  called  by  all  around. 

The  son  of  Gwalchmai,  ap  Meilir ; 
My  fond  illusion  continued  long, 

Evil  thought  of  for  my  lengthened  stay.*** 

Where  hast  thou  been! 

^'  In  Kent,  in  Gwent,  in  the  Wood,  in  Monmouth, 

In  Maenol  Gorwenydd ; 
And  in  the  valley  of  Gwyn,  the  son  of  Nudd, 

See,  the  bright  gold  is  the  token/' 

And  he  gave  her  the  ring. 

^^  Look  not  on  the  whitened  hue  of  the  hair, 
Where  once  my  aspect  was  spirited  and  bold  ; 

Now,  gray,  without  disguise,  where  once  it  vras  yellow  ; 
The  blossoms  of  the  grave — ^the  end  of  all  men.*** 

'^  The  fate  that  so  long  afflicted  me,  it  was  time 

That  it  should  alter  me; 
Never  was  Angharad  out  of  my  remembrance, — 

Einion  was  by  thee  forgotten."" 

And  she  could  not  bring  him  to  her  recollection.     Then  said  he 
to  the  guests, — 

''  If  I  have  lost  her  whom  I  loved,  the  fair  one  of  polished  mind, 

The  daughter  of  Ednyved  Vychan; 
I  have  not  lost,  (so  get  you  out,) 

Either  my  bed,  or  my  house,  or  my  fire."" 

And  upon  that  ho  placed  the  white  staff  in  Angharad*s  hand,  and 
instantly  the  goblin  which  she  had  hitherto  seen  as  a  handsome 
and  honourable  nobleman,  appeared  to  her  as  a  monster,  in- 
conceivably hideous;  and  she  fainted  from  fear,  and  Einion  sap* 
ported  her  until  she  revived.  And  when  she  opened  her  eyes,  she 
saw  there  neither  the  goblin,  nor  any  of  the  guests,  or  of  the  min* 


Ŵ 


■$ 


FABLES.  591 

•trels,  nor  anything  whatever  except  Einion,  and  her  son,  and  the 
harp,  and  the  house  in  its  domestic  arrangement,  and  the  dinner 
on  the  table,  casting  its  savoury  odour  around.  And  they  sat 
down  to  eat;  Einion,  and  Angharad,  and  Einion  their  son;  and 
exceeding  great  was  their  enjoyment.  And  they  saw  the  illusion 
which  the  demoniacal  goblin  had  cast  over  them.  And  by  this 
perchance  may  be  seen  that  love  of  female  beauty  and  gentleness 
is  the  greatest  fascination  of  man ;  and  the  love  of  honours  with 
their  vanities,  and  riches,  is  the  greatest  fascination  of  woman.  No 
man  will  forget  his  wife,  unless  he  sets  his  heart  on  the  beauty  of 
another;  nor  a  woman  her  husband,  unless  she  sets  her  heart  on 
the  riches  and  honour  of  lordly  vaingloriousness,  and  the  pomp  of 
pride.     And  thus  it  ends. 

Hopkin,  the  son  of  Thomas,  of  Gower,  composed  it. 


[In  another  copy  the  following  is  found  as  a  fragment. — ^Ab  Iolo.]] 

Here  is  a  story  composed  by  Hopkin,  the  son  of  Thomas,  of 
Ynys  Dawy,  of  what  befell  Einion  the  son  of  Gwalchmai  of 
Anglesey,  and  the  Lady  of  the  Greenwood,  which  was  a  witch  or 
female  goblin  that  fascinated  him  for  nine  and  twenty  years,  and  of 
the  manner  in  which  he  was  liberated  from  the  illusion  and  bands 
she  had  cast  over  him. 

Einion,  the  son  of  Gwalchmai,  the  son  of  Meilir,*  the  son  of 
Mabon,  &c.  of  Anglesey,  was  a  dignified  nobleman,  and  lineally 
descended  from  Llywarch,  the  son  of  Bran,  the  head  of  one  of  the 


1  The  three  last  named  individualfl  afford  a  remarkable  instance  of  the 
existence  of  poetic  talent  in  the  same  family,  for  three  successire  generations. 
MeiHr^  the  grandfather,  began  to  compose  as  early  as  1080,  and  his  poetry, 
though  evidencing  the  awakening  energy  of  the  latter  part  of  the  eleventh 
century,  yet,  at  the  same  time,  retains  much  of  the  torpor  of  preceding  ages. 
Gwolchmaiy  his  son,  on  the  other  hand,  exhibits  all  the  fire  and  ardour  of  the 
twelfth  century.  His  ode  on  the  defeat  of  Henry  II.  by  Owen  Gwynedd, 
in  1157,  is  a  splendid  composition ;  Bishop  Percy  speaks  of  it  as  ''The  Sublime 
Ode  of  Gwalchmai;"  and  Gray  selected  it  for  his  national  specimens,  and 
has  given  a  versified  translation  of  it  under  the  title  of  ''The  Triumph  of 
Owen."  Einiotiy  the  hero  of  the  present  fable,  is  a  pleasing  and  polished 
composer,  but  wants  the  fire  of  his  father,  G  walchmaL  His  subjects  are  chiefly 
religions.  * 


592  FABLES. 

fifteen  tribes  of  Gwynedd,  and  his  wife  was  Angharad,  the  daughter 
of  Ednyred  Vychan,  of  Anglesey,  by  whom  he  had  a  son.  Hìb 
mother  was  X.  the  daughter  of  L.  LI.  the  son  of  BB.  [Probably, 
Christiana,  the  daughter  of  Llywarch  ap  Bran.] 


XL    THE  RICH  MAN. 

In  time  past  there  lived  in  a  certain  parish  a  great  and  wealthy 
lord;  and  he  was  the  richest  man  in  possession  of  houses,  and 
lands,  and  of  gold  and  silver,  and  of  every  worldly  property,  as  well 
as  with  regard  to  office  and  honour,  of  any  in  his  district.     And 
one  morning  at  the  break  of  dawn,  after  the  third  crowing  of  the 
cock,  there  was  a  voice  heard  distinctly  proclaiming,  three  times, 
in   this   manner.     "To-night, — this  very  next  night,  shall  the 
greatest  and  richest  man  in  this  parish  die.'*'*     And  it  was  told  the 
nobleman  how  such  a  spiritual  voice  was  heard,  as  it  were  from 
heaven.     And  when  he  heard  of  it,  ho  was  exceedingly  troubled, 
and  sent  for  the  best  of  physicians  far  and  near,  who  watched  by 
his  bed  unceasingly,  ministering  to  him  every  medicine  they  could 
bring  to  their  mind  and  knowledge,  and  every  support  of  life  that 
.  they  could  discover  by  learning  and  deep  study.     And  the  night 
wore  away,  although  it  appeared  to  the  nobleman  as  long  as  a  mane's 
life;  and  the  dawn  broke,  and  the  nobleman  and  his  friends  rejoiced 
exceedingly  that  he  was  alive.     At  sunrise,  lo  the  church  bell  was 
tolling  the  knell  of  some  one  dead.     And  they  sent  in  great  haste 
to  enquire  who  it  was.     And  the  answer  came  that  it  was  a  poor 
old  blind  boggar-man,  who  had  been  often  seen  sitting  more  than 
half  naked,  at  the  road  side,  asking  alms;  and  who,  although  he 
received  something  from  others,  yet  he  never  received  any  thing 
from  the  rich  nobleman,  his  neighbour.     And  when  the  nobleman 
heard  of  it  he  said,  "  I  well  knew  that  the  wicked  old  fellow  was  a 
cheat  and  impostor;  and  as  he  has  left  neither  children,  nor  rela- 
tives, as  I  am  the  lord  of  the  territory,  to  me  belongs  by  the  law 
of  the  land  all  the  wealth  of  the  old  unconscionable  dog.*"  So  they 
went  and  minutely  searched  the  house,  and  in  it  they  found  no- 
thing but  a  truss  of  straw,  and  a  bolster  of  rushes,  and  the  old  man 
dead  upon  them;   and  in  the  house  there  was  neither  food  nor 
drink,  nor  fire,  nor  clothes,  as  a  protection  from  cold;  and  it  was 
seen  that  it  was  from  hunger  and  cold  that  the  old  hermit  had  died. 
And  from  seeing  this,  the  wealthy  lord  became  exceeding  sorrow- 


FABLES.  593 

f ul,  and  took  it  greatly  to  heart;  and  after  sorrowing  for  a  great 
many  days,  and  praying  to  God,  it  came  to  his  recollection  that 
^^  blessed  are  the  religious  poor,  and  theirs  is  the  treasure  and 
wealth  in  the  happy  region  of  Heaven.**'  And  from  thence  forward 
he  became  a  religious  man,  giving  alms  and  practising  charity,  and 
performing  every  godly  and  moral  act  to  the  end  of  his  life;  en- 
dowing religious  houses,  and  churches,  and  alms-houses,  and  hospi- 
tals, and  schools;  and  relieving  from  every  poverty  and  want,  he 
saw  or  heard  of;  and  he  died  a  devout  saint.  And  in  his  last 
hour,  his  words  were  these:  "  I  shall  go  to  my  betters;  I  shall  go 
to  the  old  hermit,  and  blessed  shall  I  be  in  that,  though  I  be  litter 
under  his  feet.""  At  the  hour  in  which  he  died,  there  was  heard 
the  voice  of  angels  singing  the  welcome  of  happiness  to  him.  And 
he  was  buried  according  to  his  desire  in  the  old  hormit'^s  grave. 
And  thus  it  emh. 


X.    THE  BLIND  BEGGAR. 

TnRRE  was  formerly  a  blind  man,  who  lived  on  alms  which  he 
had  of  one  and  another,  and  yot  very  desirous  of,  and  entirely  bent 
upon,  acquiring  worldly  wealth,  and  storing  up  wealth  of  gold  and 
silver,  and  thus  becoming  a  great  man  in  his  country. 

One  day  after  having  received  the  full  of  an  earthen  vessel  of  milk, 
«ind  having  brought  it  home,  and  placed  it  at  the  comer  of  the 
floor,  he  sat  down,  and  having  silently  meditated  a  little  while,  he 
was  shortly  after  heard  speaking  thus :  ^*  I  will  sell  this  for  a  trifle, 
and  will  buy  a  chicken.  That  will  bring  me  an  egg  every  day  for 
a  good  period  of  time.  I  will  soil  the  eggs,  and  save  with  the  great- 
est care  what  I  shall  get  for  them ;  and  some  I  will  place  under 
the  hen,  and  when  she  sits  she  will  hatch  them  chickens  for  me, 
and  when  they  conie  to  a  proper  size,  I  will  sell  them  for  so  much, 
and  may  I  go  to  the  evil  one  if  I  sell  one  to  any  man  living  for  less 
than  that.  I  will  buy  a  ewe  with  the  money,  and  she  will  give 
me  milk,  and  wool,  and  lambs;  I  will  sell  the  milk  and  the  wool  for 
the  best  price,  and  those  to  whom  they  are  indispensable  must 
give  it  or  b(»  withr>ut  thorn.  And  they  shall  be  without  them,  un- 
less I  get  for  them  the  price  that  satisfies  me.  The  male  Iambs  I 
shall  sell  at  a  j>rice  that  nun<»  but  the  neofly  will  give ;  the  females 
1  will  koop  for  breedinij;  and  what  with  the  lambs  andeverv  other 

to 


594  FABLES. 

profit  arising  from  my  sheep,  in  the  course  of  time  I  shall  hati 
the  means  of  buying  houses  and  land,  where  there  is  the  best 
ground,  and  water,  and  shelter,  and  every  other  advantage  thai 
can  make  me  a  rich  and  wealthy  man.  And  then  if  any  one  or  the 
other  should  come  to  me  to  ask  for  this  or  that,  whatever,  eithei 
the  one  or  the  other  of  them  may  want,  they  shall  not  have  it  ex- 
cept for  the  ready  money  in  hand.  And  when  any  shall  come  Ic 
me  to  cultivate  my  friendship,  I  ^hall  take  no  notice  of  them, 
neither  small  nor  great,  I  shall  make  neither  acquaintance  nor  in- 
timacy with  the  best  of  them ;  but  shall  say  to  them,  *  Away  with 
you,  you  clowns.**  And  when  they  do  not  go  at  the  first  word,  I 
shall  strike  them  with  my  staflF,  thus :""  And  with  that  he  struck 
with  his  staff  with  all  the  strength  of  his  arm,  and  the  blow  lit  on 
the  vessel,  and  broke  it  into  shivers,  and  all  the  milk  was  spilt  on 
the  floor  and  lost,  and  together  with  that,  all  the  houses,  and  land, 
and  worldly  possessions,  and  riches ;  also  the  staff  flew  out  of  hia 
hand,  so  that  he  could  not  stir  from  the  place  where  he  was,  nor 
take  a  journey  any  where  in  the  world,  poor  and  needy  as  he  was, 
to  ask  for  assistance  to  support  life.  Without  the  staff,  without 
every  thing;  and  therefore  is  it  said  of  what  is  done  through  pre- 
sumption: "Like  the  blind  striking  >vith  his  staff;'*'  and  other- 
wise, "Be  not  too  ready  to  throw  thy  staff  out  of  thy  hand,  like 
the  blind  man  formerly.'"  And  also,  "  Often  will  pride  cast  its 
staff  out  of  its  hand  in  its  blindness,  and  thence  throw  down  in 
fragments  all  its  greatness  and  wealth,  like  the  blind  man,  his  Jog 
of  milk."  [From  miscellaneous  papers  of  Edward  Lhuyd,  in  the 
Ashmolean  Museum,  in  Oxford. — Siiys  lolo  Morganwg.] 


XI.    THE  MAN  AND  THE  COLT. 

Formerly  a  Man  who  was  owner  of  a  Colt,  would  place  him- 
self under  him  when  a  month  old,  and  lift  him  on  his  shoulders. 
And  this  he  did  every  day.  The  Colt  growing  to  be  a  horse,  and 
the  Man  by  daily  exercise  of  his  bodily  strength,  increasing  in 
strength  as  the  Colt  increased  in  size,  and  lifting  up  the  Hone 
upon  his  shoulders,  and  the  Horse  enduring  that  easily.  Thus 
habit  will  do  more  for  one  than  is  imagined.  As  the  proverb  says, 
"  Habit  will  make  mastery."  "  Habit  will  render  easy  the  most 
difficult."   And  another,   "  Habit  will  subdue  the  most  powerful." 


FABLES.  595 

Another  also,  "  Habit  will  reduce  every  thing  under  its  controul." 
*' Habit  will  come  half-way  to  meet  every  endeavour,  like  the 
Horse  coming  to  the  Man,  and  readily  submitting  to  be  lifted/' 
Another  likewise,  "  Habit  is  half  the  work.*"  Also  other  proverbs, 
**Not  strength  but  habit.  Not  strength  but  art.  Not  art  but 
habit.''     As  the  Bard  says  : 

"  Habit  and  endeavour  will  conquer  every  oppression." 

And  of  this  comes  the  proverb:  *'To  lift  the  Colt  to-day,  to- 
morrow, and  every  day  until  he  becomes  a  fullgrown  Horse." 


XII.    OF  MEREDYDD  AP  RHOSSER  OF  LLANBEDER  AR 

VRO,  RESPECTING  TREWARIN  CASTLE, 

[I.  E.  WRINSTWN.] 

The  Castle  of  Foulk  Fitzwarren,  called  Foulk  of  Glamorgan, 
and  Foulk,  Viscount  of  CardiiF,  consisted  of  one  large  and  lofty 
tower;  and  much  hidier  than  anv  other  tower  in  the  Island  of 
Britain.  As  Sir  Foulk  was  on  one  whitsuntide  speaking  of  the 
hardships  he  had  endured,  when  fighting  with  his  enemies  and  the 
Saracens,  and  of  the  way  in  which  he  managed  to  defeat  them, 
whilst  kni<;hts  and  noblemen  of  liiirh  descent  were  listeninjnr  "  I 
could  easily  have  done  that  myself,"  said  one  knight.  "And  I  also." 
said  another.  "And  I  also,"  said  the  third.  And  so  from  "I 
also"  to  "I  also,"  until  each  was  heard  to  boast  himself  equal  to 
the  best,  and  as  goo<l  as  Sir  Foulk  himself.  "  One  thing  besides 
I  did,"  said  Sir  Foulk,  "  but  less  wonderful  I  must  confess  than 
any  thing  else."  "  What  was  that  ?"  said  one  and  the  other  of 
all  that  were  present.  Said  Sir  Foulk,  "  I  jumped  to  the  top  of  my 
own  castle,  which  every  one  of  you  acknowledges  to  be  the  high- 
est in  the  kingdom."  ''  That  is  true  as  relates  to  its  height,"  said 
one  and  the  other,  and  all  of  them,  "  but  as  to  jumping  to  its  top, 
nothing  but  seeing  the  exploit  with  my  own  eyes  will  make  me  be- 
lieve that."  "  Very  good,  truly,"  said  Sir  Foulk ;  "and  if  I  shall 
have  the  honour  of  your  company  to  dine  with  me  some  day  in  my 
castle,  you  shall  see  me  jumping  to  the  top  of  it."  Every  one 
promised  to  come,  and  the  day  was  named,  and  all  of  them  came, 
and  they  dined,  eating  and  drinking  well;  the  meat  and  drink  bo- 


596  FABLES. 

ing  of  the  best.  "  Now,"  said  Sir  Foulk,  "for  jumpÌDg  to  the  to 
of  the  castle  tower,  come  with  me  and  see  every  one  with  his  owi 
eyes.'"  They  proceeded  to  the  foot  of  the  stairs,  and  Sir  Fouli 
jumped  to  the  top  of  the  first  step,  aud  from  that  to  the  secoiui 
and  then  to  the  third,  and  thus  jumped  from  step  to  step  til 
he  jumped  to  the  top  of  the  castle.  '^O!*"  said  one,  and  afte 
him  every  one  else,  '^  I  could  have  easily  jumped  to  the  top  of  tb 
castle  in  that  way  myself/'  "  Yes,''  said  Sir  Foulk,  "  I  knoi 
you  could,  and  that  every  one  of  you  easily  can,  now  after  seeÍDj 
me  do  so,  and  the  way  I  did  it.  And  want  of  understanding  alon 
was  the  cause  of  your  not  doing  so ;  or  at  least  it  never  came  int4 
your  mind  how  it  might  be  done." 

Let  the  possessor  of  understanding  listen,  and  consider  th< 
Fable,  and  take  instruction.  From  step  to  step  the  top  of  the 
castle  of  knowledge,  and  the  height  of  science  must  be  reached; 
and  nothing  so  vain  as  attempting  it  at  one  leap. 

Meredith,  the  son  of  Bhosser,  related  this  at  the  Eisteddvod  oj 
LlandafiP;  which  was  held  then  in  the  church  by  William  EvanSj 
Treasurer  of  Llandaff,  to  show  how  knowledge  of  learning  and 
science  must  be  obtained. 

And  in  the  open  field  where  the  bards  set  apart  ground  ap- 
pointed by  thirteen  Chair-Bards,  proclaimed  by  regular  proclama- 
tions, according  to  the  primary  custom^  or  else  publicly  read  by  a 
Chair-Bard  in  right  of  an  Ovydd,  inasmuch  as  neither  a  chief 
Bard,  nor  a  Druid  ought  otherwise  than  to  proclaim  it  aloud 
according  to  the  voice  of  the  Gorsedd. 


TALES. 


HERE  IS  THE  ACCOUNT  OF  CARADOC 

ICARACTACU8,]  THE  SON  OP  BRAN,  THE  SON  OP  LLYR,  AND  OP  MAN  A- 

WYDDAN,  THE  SON  OP  LLYR,  HIS  UNCLE,  AND  OP  THE 

PRISON  OP  OETH  AND  ANNOETH. 

When  Caradoc,  tho  son  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  was 
warring  with  tho  Romans,  and  slaughtering  them  terribly,  some 
of  those  who  had  escaped  told  their  Em|)eror  that  there  was  nei- 
ther chance  nor  hope  of  overcoming  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Bran,  as 
long  as  the  woods  and  thickets  remained  in  the  territories  of  Ca- 
radoc and  his  Cymry,  viz:  in  the  dominion  of  Essyllwg  [Siluria,] 
inasmuch  as,  they  said,  that  in  the  woods  and  forests  they  concead 
themselves  like  wild  beasts,  and  it  is  impossible  to  obtain  a  sight 
or  a  glance  of  them,  in  order  to  slay  them,  so  that  they  come  upon 
us  Csesarians  unawares,  as  numerous  as  bees  out  of  a  hive  in  a 
long  hot  summer'^s  day,  and  slaughter  us  in  heaps;  upon  which 
the  Emperor  answered,  "By  my  great  name  and  destiny,  the 
woods  in  the  territory  of  Caradoc  and  his  Cymry  shall  not  long 
stand;  I  will  dispatch  to  that  territory  one  hundred  legions  of  my 
best  warriors  with  fire  instead  of  weapons,  and  I  will  set  on  fire 
all  the  woods  in  the  territories  of  Caradoc,  and  his  race  of  Cymry 
and  their  tribes."  These  words  came  to  the  hearing  of  Caradoc,  tho 
son  of  Bran,  and  his  men,  u])on  which  they  said  as  with  one  voice 
and  one  mouth,  *'It  is  a  small  thing  for  us  to  defend  our  country, 
otherwise  than  through  streni^th  of  body  and  heart ;  therefore  let  us 
burn  our  woods,  as  broad  and  as  far  ;is  there  is  soon  a  leaf  of  their 
growth,  so  that  there  may  nut  Ik*  found  a  sprig  to  hang  a  flea  from 
the  shore  of  Severn  to  tho  river  Towy,  as  broad  and  as  long  as  tho 
territories  of  Siluria  extend,  throughout  all  tho  countries  in  our 
|>ossession,  and  undor  our  namo;  then  lot  us  invito  the  Ca*sarians  to 
our  country,  and  iiioot  thorn  army  airainst  army,  \if(m  the  plain 
and  opn  ground,  tho  sanii'  as  wo  did  on  the  covert  írrí>und,  and  on 


598  TALES. 

the  wilds.'"     Then  they  burned  all  the  woods  from  the  shore  ( 
the  Severn  to  the  extremities  of  the  vale  of  Towy,  as  far  as  th 
territories  of  Caradoc  and  his  Cymry  extended,  without  leaving ; 
sprig  upon  which  the  smallest  gnat  could  alight,   to  rest  from  th( 
heat  on  a  long  summer  day.     Then  they  sent  messengers  to  thi 
Emperor  of  Rome ;  and  when  they  came  to  the  Eniperor^s  Court 
they  addressed  him  courteously  in  this  manner  :    "  We  are  th^ 
men  of  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith;  greatlj 
would  our  king  and  race  prefer  tranquillity  and  peace  to  war;  more 
gladly  would  they  have  fed  milch  kine  and  wool-bearing  sheep, 
than  their  war  horses ;  more  desirable  to  them  the  entertainment  of 
their  friends  than  the  slaughtering  of  their  enemies.     If  thou  dost 
find  fault,  it  lies  not  on  the  race  of  the  Cymry,  nor  their  Kings ; 
search  elsewhere  for  it,  narrowly  observing  that  which  is  done  un- 
der thy  hand  and  eye.     We  have  met  them  army  to  armj  in  the 
wilds,  and  thou  kuowest  what  occurred,  but  our  lands  are  no  longer 
in  thicket,  inasmuch  as  the  burning  has  not  left  either  tree  or 
sprig  alive  upon  the  face  of  our  country,  and  now  all  the  territo- 
ries of  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Bran,  are  open  land.     Keep  at  home, 
therefore,  thy  wild  fire,  there  is  not  cause  or  work  for  it  upon  the 
face  of  Wales.     Let  thy  men  meet  us  army  to  army  on  open 
ground ;  two  foreigners  for  one  Cymro  on  plain  land,  and  try  to 
win  back  the  honour  thou  hast  lost  in  the  wilds.     One  wide  plain 
is  our  country,  without  any  spot  in  which  it  is  possible  to  hide  or 
lurk:  thus  we  greet  thee;  stamp  this  deep  on  thy  memory  and 
be  manful ;  Caradoc,  the  son  of  Bran,  he  himself,  it  is  true,  addres- 
ses thee,  and  no  other.""  '^  Strange  and  astounding  was  this  address 
to  the  Emperor,  and  grievous  to  his  mind  was  the  recollection  of 
the  protection  the  Cymry  received  from  him,  by  the  privilege  of  am- 
bassadors from  a  foreign  country,  when  he  understood  that  it  was 
no  other  than  Caradoc  himself  who  addressed  him.     The  ambas- 
sadors returned  to  their  own  country,  and  the  Romans  brought 
their  armies  into  the  field,  wheresoever  the  wind  blew  from  the 
four  quarters  of  the  world.     And  Caradoc  and  his  Cymry  came 
against  them  valiantly,  slaying  them  in  heaps  wheresoever  they 
turned  their  faces  towards  them.   And  equal  were  Caradoc  and  his 
Cymry,  on  open  ground,  to  what  they  before  were  found  in  the 
woods,  as  good  on  the  plain  as  in  the  covert ;  and  then  it  became 
one  of  the  proverbs  of  the  country ;  when  they  would  say,  "  Equal 
in  the  wild  as  in  the  open  ground," — "  The  same  to  him  Oeth  as 
Anoneth,"'  [open  or  concealed,] 


TALES.  599 

After  burning  the  woods,  as  above  mentioned,  in  the  territories 
of  Bran  and  his  Cymry,  there  was  such  a  scarcity  of  timber  that 
they  had  not  materials  for  building  houses ;  and  from  that  arose  the 
proverb,  "  It  is  easier  to  find  a  carpenter  than  materials.'*''  And 
also,  "  Few  the  carpenters,  but  fewer  the  materials,*"  in  consequence 
of  which  the  Cyrary  were  obliged  to  build  their  houses  of  stone, 
and  those  houses  were  constructed  in  the  form  of  a  stack  of  com 
or  hay,  or  the  form  of  a  bee  hive,  being  round,  gathered  together  at 
the  top,  instead  of  a  wooden  roof,  with  a  hole  for  the  smoke  in  the 
centre  over-head,  as  may  be  seen  in  the  ruins  of  those  houses  that 
are  to  be  found  to  this  day  on  the  mountains,  and  in  uncultivated 
places.  Then  they  sought  to  make  lime,  to  impart  strength  to 
those  stone  houses ;  and  in  those  times  they  began  in  Wales  to 
build  houses  with  lime,  and  to  arrange  houses  in  villages,  in  order 
that  it  might  be  easier  to  protect  each  other  from  enemies  and 
foreigners,  and  render  mutual  assistance,  and  herd  their  sheep  and 
milch  kine,  and  defend  their  arable  and  hay  land.  After  those 
wars,  when  so  many  of  the  Ca^sarians  had  been  killed,  their  bones, 
which  had  been  left  by  the  wolves,  and  dogs,  and  ravens,  like  a 
white  sheet  of  snow,  in  many  places  covering  the  face  of  the  earth; 
and  in  the  Maesmawr  in  Wales,  namely,  the  country  where  now 
is  the  monastery  of  Margam,  were  found  the  greatest  quantity  of 
bones,  on  account  of  the  great  battle  on  the  open  ground,  which 
was  fought  with  the  Romans,  who  were  there  slain.  And  Mana- 
wyddan,  the  son  of  Llyr,  seeing  that,  caused  the  bones  to  be  col- 
lected together  into  one  heap,  and  to  put  others  also  there,  which 
were  found  throughout  his  dominion ;  so  that  the  heap  became  of 
a  marvellous  magnitude  ;  then  it  came  to  his  mind  to  make  lime 
and  to  form  a  prison  of  those  bones,  in  which  to  confine  such  ene- 
mies and  foreigners  as  might  be  taken  in  war;  and  they  set  about 
the  work,  and  constructed  a  largo  edifice  with  exceeding  strong 
walls,  of  those  bones  mixed  with  lime.  It  was  of  a  circular  form  and 
wonderful  magnitude,  and  the  larger  bones  were  on  the  outer  face 
of  the  walls,  and  within  the  circle  many  prisons  of  lesser  bones,  and 
other  cells  under  the  ground,  as  places  for  traitors  to  their  country; 
this  was  called  the  prison  of  Oeth  and  Annoeth,  in  memorial  of 
what  the  Cymry  and  Caradoc,  their  king,  had  done  for  their  coun- 
try and  race,  as  well  in  the  open  ground  as  in  the  covert ;  and  in 
that  prison  were  confined  those,  who  were  taken  in  war  as  enemies 
to  the  race  of  the  Cymry,  until  the  judgment  of  a  court  should  be 
obtained  upon  them;  and  if  it  should  be  found  that  any  one  of  those 


600  TALES. 

foreigners  was  taken  practising  treachery,  he  would  be  burned ;  if 
he  was  taken  in  open  battle,  and  it  should  be  found  true  by 
the  judgment  of  the  court,  he  would  be  returned  to  his  country  in 
exchange  for  a  Briton  ;  and  after  that  they  imprisoned  there  every 
one  who  should  be  found  a  traitor  to  his  country,  and  where  not 
burned  by  judgment  of  the  court,  they  were  kept  there  during 
their  lives;  and  that  prison  was  demolished  several  times  by  the 
Caesarians,  and  the  Cymry  would  afterwards  re-construct  it  stronger 
than  before.  And  in  the  course  of  a  long  time,  the  bones  became 
decayed,  so  that  there  was  no  strength  in  them,  and  they  were  re^ 
duced  to  dust,  then  they  carried  the  remains  and  put  it  on  the  sur- 
face of  the  ploughed  land ;  and  from  that  time  they  had  astonish- 
ing crops  of  wheat  and  barley,  and  of  every  other  grain  for  many 
years.     Thus  it  ends. 


THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  THREE  BIRDS  OF  LLWCH  GWYN. 

Drutwas,  the  son  of  Trephin,  received  from  his  wife  three  birds 
of  Llwch  Gwyn,  and  they  would  do  whatsoever  their  master  bid 
them,  and  a  combat  was  appointed  between  Arthur  and  Drutwas, 
and  no  one  should  come  to  the  field  but  they  two ;  and  Drutwas 
sent  his  birds  forth,  saying  to  them,  slay  the  first  that  comes  into 
the  field;  Jind  as  Arthur  went  into  the  field,  the  sister  of  Drutwas, 
who  was  Arthur'^s  friend,  came  and  prevented  Arthur  going  to  the 
field,  out  of  affection  to  each  of  them ;  and  at  last  Drutwas  came 
into  the  field,  thinking  the  birds  had  slain  Arthur,  and  the  birds 
caught  him  up  and  killed  him,  and  when  high  in  the  air,  they 
knew  him,  and  fell  to  the  ground  with  most  doleful  lamentations, 
for  having  slain  Drutwas,  their  master;  and  the  song  of  the  birds 
of  Llwch  Gwyn  still  exists  on  the  strings,  which  was  made  at  that 
time  to  record  the  event.  And  from  that  Llywarch  Hen  had  the 
subject,  on  which  he  composed  the  following  Englyn: — 

Drutwas,  the  son  of  Trephin,  on  the  day  of  combat, 

With  toil  and  exertion, 
A  broach  of  compact  committed,  formerly. 

And  was  slain  by  the  birds  of  Llwch  Gwyn. 


TALES.  GO  I 


THE  ANCIENTS  OF  THE  WORLD. 
From  the  Book  of  Mr.  Cobb. — lolo  Morganwg. 


There  was  formerly  an  Eagle  living  in  the  Woods  of  Gwemab- 
wy,  in  Scotland,  and  he  was  the  first  of  his  kind  and  of  his  name 
ever  known  there;  and  after  he  and  his  Mate  had  had  progeny  till 
the  ninth  generation,  and  far  beyond  that,  and  had  seen  his  race 
and  progeny  in  countless  numbers,  and  possessing  all  the  woods 
and  rocks  of  the  Island  of  Britain ;  the  old  mother  Eagle  died, 
leaving  her  grey  old  Eagle  a  lonely  widower,  and  destitute  of 
friends,  without  any  person  to  console  and  cheer  him  in  his  old 
age.  Then  thr.)Ugli  depression  of  spirits,  and  sadness  of  heart,  he 
thought  it  would  be  better  for  him  to  marry  an  old  widow,  of  his 
own  age;  and  after  having  hoard  of  the  old  Owl  of  Cwnicawlwyd, 
in  North  Britain,  he  took  it  into  his  head  that  she  could  be  afii- 
anced  to  him,  and  be  his  second  wife;  but  he  did  not  wish  to  de- 
teriorate and  debase  his  blood,  and  to  degrade  his  race  by  having 
children  by  her,  and  bringing  contempt  upon  his  descendants. 
"  Better  therefore,^'  said  he  to  himself,  "  for  me  to  enquire  of  those 
who  are  older  than  I  concerning  the  age  of  the  Owl,  in  order  to 
know  whether  or  not  she  is  past  the  age  of  child-bearing.'*'  He 
had  an  old  friend,  older  than  himself,  and  this  was  the  Stag  of 
Rhedynvre,  in  Gwent,  and  he  went  to  him,  and  asked  the  age  of 
the  old  Owl ;  and  the  Stag  answered  him  thus ;  "  Thou  seest,  my 
friend  and  companion,  this  oak  by  which  I  lie,  it  is  at  present  no 
more  than  an  old  withered  stump,  without  leaves  or  branches,  but 
I  remember  seeing  it  an  acorn  on  the  top  of  the  chief  tree  of  this 
forest,  and  it  grew  into  an  oak,  and  an  oak  is  three  hundred  years 
in  growing,  and  after  that  three  hundred  years  in  its  strength  and 
prime,  and  after  that  three  hundred  years  decaying  before  death, 
and  after  death  three  hundred  years  returning  into  earth,  and  up- 
wards of  sixty  years  of  the  last  hundred  of  this  oak  are  passed,  and 
the  Owl  has  been  old  since  I  first  remember  her,  without  my  being 
acquainted  with  any  of  my  own  kindred,  who  knew  her  age,  or  to 
whom  she  had  appeared  younger  than  she  dfK?s  now ;  but  there  is 
an  old  friend  of  mine,  who  is  much  older  than  myself,  the  Salmon 

4  H 


602  TALES. 

of  Llyn  Llivon/go  to  him,  it  is  a  chance  if  ho  does  not  know  some- 
thing of  the  age  and  history  of  the  old  Owl.  The  Eagle  went  to 
him  and  asked  information  concerning  the  Owl,  and  the  Salmon 
answered  him  thus,  '^  The  number  of  the  scales  and  the  spots  upon 
me,  and  added  to  these  the  number  of  grains  of  spawn  which  I 
contain,  are  the  number  of  years  of  my  age,  and  to  the  ntmost  of 
my  recollection,  an  old  spectre  was  the  Owl;  and  none  of  my 
friends,  who  were  of  full  age  when  I  was  young,  either  remembered 
or  ever  heard  any  thing  of  the  youth  of  the  Owl,  nor  moreoTer  of 
her  having  any  children;  but  there  is  a  companion  of  mine,  who  it 
much  older  than  I,  the  Ousel  of  Cilgwri,  go  to  him,  it  is  a  chance 
if  he  does  not  know  something  beyond  the  knowledge  and  recol- 
lection I  have  of  her,  go  to  him  and  ask.**^  The  Eagle  went  and 
found  the  Ousel  sitting  on  a  small  bit  of  hard  flint,  and  he  asked 
him  the  age  and  history  of  the  Owl;  and  the  Ousel  answered  him 
thus :  '^  See  here  how  small  this  little  stone  is  under  me,  it  is  not 
more  than  a  child  of  seven  years  old  could  take  up  in  his  hand,  and 
I  have  seen  it  a  load  for  three  hundred  yoke  of  the  largest  oxen, 
and  it  never  was  worn  at  all,  excepting  by  my  cleaning  my  beak 
upon  it  once  every  night  before  going  to  sleep,  and  striking  the 
point  of  my  wings  upon  it  every  morning,  after  alighting  upon  it 
from  the  midst  of  a  thorn-bush,  and  the  number  of  the  years  of 
my  age  are  entirely  beyond  my  recollection  and  notwithstanding 
that,  I  never  knew  the  Owl  younger  to  my  judgment  and  observa- 
tion, according  to  her  appearance,  than  she  is  at  this  day;  and  I 
never  heard  from  any  of  my  friends  the  sUghtest  report  of  any  re- 
collection of  her  having  children ;  but  there  is  one  a  great  deal  okler 
than  I,  or,  for  all  I  ever  heard,  older  than  my  father,  and  this  is  the 
Toad  of  Cors  Yochno,  in  Ceredigion  [Cardiganshire,]  go  and  ask 
him,  and  if  he  knows  not,  I  know  of  none  who  does.**^  The  Eagle 
went  to  Cors  Yochno,  and  met  the  Toad  there,  and  asked  him  the 
age  of  the  Owl,  and  the  Toad  answered  him,  "  I  never  eat  any 
food  save  the  dust  of  the  earth,  and  I  never  eat  half  enough 
to  satisfy  me;  see  thou  those  large  hills  around  this  bog; 
where  they  stand  I  have  seen  plain  ground;  and  I  have  eaten  as 
much  earth  as  they  contain,  though  I  eat  so  little  lest  the  mould 
of  the  earth  should  be  consmned  before  my  death.  Beyond  all  me- 
mory of  mine  are  the  years  since  I  was  bom,  and  even  the  first 


'  Sec  the  Mabinogion,  by  Lady  Charlotte  Guest. 


TALES.  603 

subject  of  my  recollection;  nevertheless,  much  older  than  I  am  is 
the  Owl,  without  the  slightest  appearance  of  youth  belonging  to 
her,  but  an  old  grey  hag  crying,  Ty  hwt^  ty  hw^  in  the  woods  in 
the  long  winter  nights,  frightening  the  children,  and  disturbing 
every  body ;  and  I  have  no  recollection,  nor  did  I  ever  hear  of  her 
bearing  children,  but  what  I  saw  myself,  old  hags  far  beyond  the 
age  of  bearing  children  were  the  youngest  of  her  daughters,  and 
her  grand-daughters,  and  her  great-grand-daughters.**^  Then  the 
Eagle  saw  he  could  marry  her,  and  take  her  for  a  mate,  without 
bringing  on  his  tribe  debasement  or  disgrace,  degradation  or  de* 
generation;  and  so  it  was  from  the  courtship  of  the  old  Eagle 
it  was  known  which  were  the  oldest  creatures  in  the  world;  and 
they  are  the  Eagle  of  Gwernabwy,  the  Stag  of  Rhedynvre,  the 
Salmon  of  Llyn  Llivon,  the  Ousel  of  Gilgwri,  the  Toad  of  Cors 
Vochno,  and  the  Owl  of  Cwmcawlwyd,  and  there  is  not  save  the 
ridge  of  land  older  than  they  of  the  things  that  had  their  begin- 
ing  in  the  age  of  this  world.    And  thus  it  ends. 


THE  DREAM  OF  THE  APOSTLE  PAUL. 

Michael,  by  the  command  of  God,  showed  the  Apostle  Paul 
in  a  vision  the  punishment  of  hell.  First  of  all,  Paul  saw  fiery 
trees  outside  the  gate  of  hell,  and  many  sinners  in  torments  hang- 
ing upon  those  trees,  some  by  their  hands,  some  by  their  hair, 
some  by  their  feet,  some  by  their  tongues,  and  some  by  their  arms; 
and  again  he  saw  a  fiery  furnace,  and  seven  punishments  of  seven 
difierent  colours  within  it,  and  sinners  in  torments  amongst  them, 
and  the  seven  punishments  surrounding  them ;  the  first  was  snow, 
the  second  ice,  the  third  fire,  the  fourth  blood,  the  fifth  adders, 
the  sixth  hail,  the  seventh  an  abominable  smell ;  and  into  that  fiery 
furnace  the  souls  of  sinners  were  thrown,  who  had  not  done  penance 
in  this  world  for  their  sins  and  misdeeds,  that  is  to  say,  those  who 
had  not  repented ;  there  they  wore  put  in  torments  according  to 
their  deeds,  and  according  to  what  they  deserved  in  this  world, 
some  weeping,  some  howling,  some  groaning,  some  burning,  some 
desiring  death  without  obtaining  it;  for  the  soul  of  man  will 
never  die  in  a  doleful  place;  and  a  doleful  place  is  hell,  where 
there  is  excess  of  misery,  where  there  is  everlasting  wretchedness, 
where  there  is  sorrow  of  heart,  where  there  is  abundance  of  evil, 
where  there  is  affliction  of  souls^  where  there  is  a  fiery  wheel  and 


604  TALES. 

one  thousand  wheels  within  it,  and  infernal   violence  taming  it 
a  thousand  times  day  and  night,  and  at  every  turn   burning  a 
thousand  souls.     After  that  Paul  saw  a  great  and  frightful  river, 
and  many  devils  in  it,  like  fish  in  the  sea,  swallowing  souls  innu- 
merable and  that  without  mercy,  like  wolves  slaughtering  sheep; 
and  on  that  river  there  is  a  bridge,  and  along  that  bridge  the  soak 
of  good  and  just  people  pass  without  difficulty,   and  over  that 
bridge  the  w  icked  and  deceitful  fall  into  the  midst  of  the  flood,  and 
all  sink  in  that  flood  according  to  their  deeds ;  and  there  are  many 
evil  places  for  them  to  remain  in,  according  as  God  says  in  the 
Gospel,  "  Bind  them  in  bundles,'^  to  be  tormented,  that  is  to  say, 
every  one  with  his  sort.  The  husbands  that  break  their  marriages, 
and  the  wives  who  do  the  same;  oppressors  with  other  oppressors; 
and  the  wicked  with  the  others  who  are  w^icked;   usurers  with 
other  usurers ;  the  profligates  with  other  profligates.     Then  Paul 
saw  many  other  souls  in  that  flood,  some  up  to  their  knees,  some  op 
to  their  waists,  some  up  to  their  shoulders,  and  some  over  their  heads, 
and  there  weeping  and  howling ;  and  a  hundred  thousand  devils 
mocking  them  with  loud  grinning  laughter,  and  with  the  uproar 
all  the  regions  of  hell  were  filled  with  one  terrific  tumult.     Then 
Paul  saw  —    —    —    —    —    —    —    —     —     —    —    — 

—  —  and  asked  what  he  was.  And  the  angel  said,  he  was  a 
wicked  man,  who  had  not  kept  the  laws  of  Grod,  immoral  and  false 
in  his  word,  his  actions,  and  his  thoughts ;  a  miser  of  his  goods, 
a  traitor  and  proud;  for  his  wicked  life  he  shall  suffer  an  immeasnre- 
able  degree  of  punishments  from  the  day  of  judgment  on.  And 
then  Paul  wept;  then  said  the  angel,  "  Why  dost  thou  weep !  thou 
hast  not  yet  seen  the  greatest  punishments  of  hell ;''  and  then  he 
showed  him  the  pit  of  hell  under  seven  locks.  Then  said  Michael, 
''  Stand  far  ofi*,  thou  canst  not  bear  the  abominable  stench  that 
arises  out  of  this  pit;''"'  and  when  the  mouth  of  the  pit  was  opened, 
there  arose  out  of  it  a  stench,  which  was  oppresive  beyond  all  the 
pains  of  hell.  Then  the  angel  said,  "  Whosoever  is  cast  into  this 
pit,  there  will  never  more  be  remembrance  of  him  before  God."^ 
Paul  said,  "Who  is  cast  into  it!''  Said  the  angel,  "  ^\^loeve^ 
have  not  believed  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  have  not  beheved 
that  he  has  come  in  the  flesh  of  the  seed  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  bora 
of  the  Virgin  Mary,  and  did  not  receive  baptism  nor  the  commu- 
nion of  the  body  of  Christ,  nor  any  of  the  benefits  of  the  church.'^ 
After  that  Paul  saw  in  another  place,  men  and  women,  and  vipers 
and  adders  devouring  them,  and  the  souls  were  there  heaped  on 


TALES.  605 

each  other  like  sheep  in  a  ship,  and  that  place  was  as  deep  as  from 
the  heaven  to  the  earth ;  and  there  he  heard  a  mighty  and  dismal 
cry,  and  deep  groaning,  and  Paul  looked  up  and  down,  and  he 
heard  the  soul  of  a  sinner  between  seven  devils,  crying  and  howl- 
ing, and  on  that  very  day  he  had  departed  from  the  body ;  and  then 
the  angels  of  God  cried  out  to  that  soul,    "  Alas  !  wretched  one, 
what  didst  thou  do  in  the  world  T"    Then  said  the  tormentors, 
"Know  how  this  soul  broke  the  commandments  of  God,"  and  then 
he  read  to  him  out  of  a  book  his  evil  deeds^  and  he  himself  judged 
himself  to  be  lost.     Then  the  devils  took  him  on  their  flesh-hooks, 
and  took  him  to  the  uttermost  darkness,  where  there  was  weeping 
and  gnashing  of  teeth.     Then  said  the  angel  to  Paul,  "  Believe 
then,  and  thou  shalt  find  that  according  as  a  man  acts,  he  shall  re- 
ceive.""    After  that  the  angels  came  bringing  with  them  the  soul 
of  a  just  and  upright  man,  and  bore  him  to  heaven,  and  then  Paul 
heard  the  voice  of  thousands  of  thousands  of  an<n:els  singins:  for 
joy.     Be  thou  glad,  for  thou  hast  performed  the  will  of  God,  and 
then  said  the  angels,  ''Lift  him  up  in  sight,*"  and  then  was  read 
his  acts  and  his  good  works.  After  that  Michael  took  tliat  soul  to 
paradise,  where  all  the  saints  were;  then  there  was  a  shout  of  joy 
for  having  that  soul  amongst  them,  as  if  heaven  and  earth  had 
shook;  then  prayed  the  souls  that  were  in  torments,  and  said 
thus  :  "  Michael,  the  archangel,  and  Paul  the  Apostle  of  Christ, 
pray  for  us  to  God.*"     Said  Michael,    "  You  ought  to  have  prayed 
whilst  in  the  land  of  hope,  but  now  it  is  too  late,  for  the  judgments 
of  God  are  like  hiniself,  unchangeable,  and  whore  the  tree  falls 
there  it  remains ;  and  you  good  Christians  having  hoard  of  these 
torments,  and  the  danger  in  which  you  are,  turn  your  hearts  to 
God,  that  you  may  reign  with  him  for  ever  and  ever,  Amen. 
And  thus  it  ends. 


THE  TALE  OF  RIIITTA  GAWR  [THE  GLINT.] 

TuEKE  were  formerly  two  kings  in  the  Island  of  Britain,  and 
their  names  were  Nynniaw  and  Peibiaw;  and  as  these  two  were 
walking  in  tlie  fields  one  light  star-light  night,  said  Nynniaw, 
"  See  what  an  extensive  and  fair  plain  I  have.*"  "  Where  is  itf" 
said  Peibiaw.  "  The  whole  firmament,*"  said  Nynniaw,  "as  far  as 
the  eye  reaches.*'**  '*  See  thou  also,*"  said  Peibiaw,  "  what  a  number 
of  cows  and  sheep  I  have  grazing  upon  thy  field.**^     "  Where  are 


606  TALES. 

theyr  said  Nynniaw.  ^^  All  the  stars  thou  seest,^  said  Peibiaw, 
''  fiery  coloured  gold  every  one  of  them,  with  the  moon  a  shepherd 
watching  them."**  "They  shall  not  remain  on  my  field,'"  said 
Nynniaw.  "  They  shall,"  said  Peibiaw.  "  They  shall  not,'"  said 
the  one.  "  They  shall,""  said  the  other,  sentence  for  sentence,  till 
there  arose  a  wild  contention  and  tumult  between  them;  and  at 
last  from  contention  they  went  to  furious  war,  until  almost  all  the 
troops  of  either  country  were  killed  in  the  battles.  And  Bhitta 
Gawr,  king  of  Cymru,  heard  what  slaughter  had  been  committed 
by  these  two  unreasonable  kings,  and  he  determined  to  condnet  an 
expedition  against  them ;  and  after  proceeding  according  to  the 
laws  of  his  country,  with  his  armies  they  assembled  and  went  against 
the  two  impetuous  kings,  who  had  run  as  has  been  mentioned 
into  lawlessness  and  wrong,  being  led  away  by  their  own  insane 
imaginations;  and  they  defeated  them,  and  Bhitta  cut  off  their 
beards.  And  when  the  rest  of  the  twenty-eight  kings  of  the  Island 
of  Britain  heard  these  things,  they  collected  their  armies  to  re- 
venge the  insult  of  the  other  two  kings  who  were  deprived  of  their 
beards ;  and  they  made  an  expedition  against  Bhitta  Qawr  and 
his  men ;  and  there  was  hard  fighting  on  all  sides,  bat  Bhitta 
Gawr  and  his  army  carried  the  field.  "  Here  is  my  pasture,""  said 
Bhitta,  and  then  he  and  his  men  cut  off  the  beards  of  all  the 
other  kings.  And  when  the  kings  of  all  the  surrounding  countries 
heard  that,  they  armed  themselves  against  Bhitta  Gawr  and  his 
men,  and  hard  and  fierce  was  the  fighting,  but  Bhitta  and  his  men 
carried  the  field,  with  dry  heads.  "  Here  then  is  our  fair  and  ex- 
tensive field,""  said  Bhitta;  and  he  and  his  men  cut  off  the  beards 
of  all  those  kings.  "  Here  are  the  beasts  tliat  grazed  my  field,"" 
said  Bhitta  to  the  imprudent  kings,  "and  I  have  driven  them  all 
out,  they  shall  not  graze  my  field.""  And  after  that  Bhitta  took 
their  beards,  and  made  of  them  an  ample  robe  from  his  head  to  his 
heels ;  and  Bhitta  was  a  man  as  large  as  the  biggest  man  that 
ever  was  seen ;  and  after  that  he  and  his  country  did  the  first 
thing  of  this  kind  which  was  ever  seen.  Order  and  law  according 
to  justice  and  reason  between  king  and  king,  and  between  nation 
and  nation,  in  all  the  Island  of  Britain,  and  Norway,  and  Ger- 
many, and  Gaul,  and  Spain,  and  Italy.  And  may  that  order  and 
law  be  for  ever  preserved,  for  the  opposing  of  such  things  as  have 
been  mentioned,  lest  they  should  again  go  to  war  where  there  is 
neither  necessity  nor  just  cause.  Amen,  so  be  it  for  evermore.  And 
thus  ends  the  Tale  of  Bhitta  Gawr. 


TALES.  G07 


CYNFIG. 


A  Peasant's  son  loved  the  daughter  of  the  Lord  of  Clare,  and 
she  would  not  have  him  because  he  was  not  rich,  and  he  went  to 
the  high  road  and  watched  for  the  steward  of  the  lord  of  the 
district  returning  towards  the  castle  from  collecting  his  lord''s 
money,  and  he  killed  him  and  took  his  money,  and  shewed  her 
the  coin,  and  the  lady  married  him ;  he  then  made  a  magnificent 
feast  and  invited  the  chief  men  of  the  country  to  it,  and  they 
made  themselves  merry  to  the  utmost.  The  second  night  the 
marriage  took  place,  and  when  they  were  merriest,  a  voice  was 
heard,  and  they  listened  attentively,  and  heard  "Vengeance  will 
come!  Vengeance  will  come!  Vengeance  will  come !**'  three  times. 
And  they  asked  when.  "At  the  end  of  the  ninth  generation,^  said 
the  voice.  "There  is  no  occasion  for  us  to  fear,''  said  they,  "all  of 
us  will  be  under  the  earth  long  before  that."  Nevertheless  they 
lived  till  a  descendant  was  bom  of  the  ninth  generation; 
and  another,  a  descendant  of  the  man  that  was  killed,  seeing 
the  arrival  of  that  period,  visited  Cynfig,  a  young  man,  a  discreet 
and  comely  young  man ;  and  looking  at  the  town  and  its  wealth, 
without  any  one  possessing  a  furrow  or  comer  excepting  the  de- 
Bcendantâ  of  the  murderer,  and  he  himself  still  livings  and  his  wife. 
At  the  crowing  of  the  cock  they  heard  a  voice,  "Vengeance  is  come! 
Vengeance  is  come !  Vengeance  is  come !"  "On  whom  is  it  comef 
said  they.  "  On  him  who  slew  my  ancestor  of  the  ninth  genera- 
tion." They  rose  in  terror  and  went  towards  the  town,  and  there 
was  nothing  to  bo  seen  but  a  large  lake,  and  in  it  above  the  surface 
of  the  water  three  chimney  tops  smoking,  and  the  smoke  of  an 
offensive  smell.  Upon  the  surface  of  the  water  the  gloves  of  the 
man  who  had  been  killed,  floating  towards  the  feet  of  the  young 
man;  he  took  them  up  and  saw  the  name  and  arms  of  the  murder- 
ed man ;  and  with  the  dawn  there  were  countless  voices  praising 
God  with  heavenly  songs.     And  thus  it  ends. 


MISCELLANIES. 


THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  PREDICTION  OF  GILDAS  THE 
PROPHET. 


Whosoever  will  understand,  let  him  take  advice  and  instmction, 
and  act  accordingly. 

1.  Let  liim  love  God  with  all  his  heart,  and  all  his  affection, 
and  all  his  power,  and  all  his  understanding,  and  all  the  faculties 
of  the  soul,  and  with  his  whole  desire,  in  all  these. 

2.  Let  him  love  his  neighbour  with  all  his  energies,  as  &r  at 
that  shall  not  interrupt  his  love  to  God. 

S.  Let  him,  to  the  utmost  of  his  power,  set  free  his  mind  from 
every  thing  that  is  of  profit  and  pleasure,  or  of  any  satisfaction 
whatever  to  himself  or  to  whom  he  should  love ;  and  by  all  means 
let  him  free  himself  from  whatever  he  may  fear,  and  may  not  love, 
with  regard  to  himself  and  his  friends ;  in  such  a  manner  as  that 
it  shall  not  be  possible  to  think  of  any  thing  in  the  world  that  he 
would  desire  or  reject,  either  for  himself  or  for  his  friends,  nor  any 
thing  that  he  would  wish  for  or  dislike  of  any  person  or  any  other 
thing. 

4.  Let  him  be  a  moral  and  religious  man  in  disposition  and 
principle,  and  godly  in  conscience,  and  energetically  pious. 

5.  Let  him  consider  and  deliberate  upon  what  he  sees  in  the 
world,  investigating  their  origin,  and  nurture,  and  progress,  and 
instrumentality,  and  end.  Let  him  observe  what  has  come,  what 
is,  and  what  shall  come  of  them. 

6.  Then  shall  he  understand  what  is  good,  and  what  is  evil, 
what  is  becoming,  and  what  is  not  becoming;  and  all  that  is  right 
and  just,  and  all  that  is  wrong  and  unjust,  and  all  that  is  crooked 
and  straight,  in  word,  thought,  and  deed ;  and  all  that  is  beneficial 
and  injurious,  and  all  that  is  beautiful  and  deformed  ;  and  seemly 
and  unseemly ;  and  true  and  false ;  and  lovely  and  hateful ;  and 
prosperous  and  un prosperous ;  and  weak  and  strong;  and  every 
beginning  and  every  ending ;  and  every  movement  and  every  rest- 


MISCELLANIES.  609 

ing ;  and  every  existence  and  nonentity ;  and  every  thing  present 
and  every  thing  fulfilled,  and  possible  and  impossible.  And  from 
understanding,  and  seeing,  and  considering  all  these  things,  he  will 
see  what  should  be,  and  what  should  come,  and  what  should  exist, 
and  what  should  have  been  completed,  and  what  should  co-exist, 
and  what  of  necessity  should  happen.  And  from  seeing  what  he 
ought,  he  will  know  what  should  be;  and  from  knowing  what 
should  exist,  and  the  time  when  it  should  exist,  and  the  manner 
in  which  it  should  exist,  and  the  cause  of  its  existence;  he  will 
know  what  God  does,  for  God  does  nothing  but  what  should  be, 
and  in  the  manner  it  should  be,  and  at  the  time  it  should  be,  and 
in  the  arrangement  in  which  it  should  be.  And  from  knowing, 
and  seeing,  and  understanding  what  God  does,  and  the  manner  and 
time  it  should  be,  he  will  prophesy  what  should  be,  and  what  shall 
be ;  and  it  will  not  fail  to  exist  in  its  due  time  and  place. 

And  thus  the  holy  prophets  obtained  knowledge  of  what  things 
God  would  do,  and  prophesied  of  them ;  and  in  the  same  way  the 
prophet  bards  amongst  the  Welsh  obtained  this  knowledge,  and 
prophesied  the  events,  and  fate,  and  destiny  of  their  race  to  the 
day  of  doom.  And  may  God,  of  his  exceeding  great  grace  and  gift, 
confer  this  knowledge  upon  every  other  Welshman,  that  he  may 
act  towards  himself  and  his  race  according  to  the  will  of  God  in 
every  good.     Amen  ever. 

And  this  is  called  the  Saying  of  Gildas  the  Prophet,  and  he  ut- 
tered it  before  the  bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  where  they  went 
to  the  Gorsedd  to  prophesy  what  should  befall  king  Arthur  and 
the  race  of  the  Cymry. 


TYBIAWN. 

After  the  Gwyddelians  had  subjected  Anglesey,  and  Arvon,  and 
the  Cantrev,  and  other  districts  in  North  Wales,  for  the  space  of 
three  hundred  and  twenty-nine  years,  the  Cymry  received  assist- 
ance from  the  neighbouring  kings,  and  the  Gwyddelians  were  ex- 
pelled. And  those  kings  assembled  themselves  together,  where  they 
had  become  accustomed  from  ancient  usage,  that  is  to  say,  at  Caer- 
Ueon  upon  Usk,  in  Morganwg,  and  there  they  held  a  council ;  and 
after  long  debate,  it  was  found  impossible  to  come  to  a  decision, 
inasmuch  as  no  law  of  the  land  was  found  to  authorize  a  war  of  re- 

4i 


610  MISCELLANIES. 

conquest  upon  the  Gwyddelians.  Then  Tjbiawn,  the  eldest  son 
of  Cyneddav,  the  supreme  king  of  North  Wales,  said  thus: 
^^  Where  the  law  of  the  land  does  not  exist,  let  justice  authorize 
the  law  of  arms,  and  let  the  noble  youths  of  the  chief  Cftmilies  of 
the  race  of  the  Cymry  assemble  themselves,  and  let  them  attack, 
and  asault  the  territories  of  the  Gwyddelians,  slaying  them,  and 
driving  them  through  the  sea;  and  let  dominion  be  given  to  the 
prince  who  performs  this,  over  the  land  he  may  subdue.  And  ithe 
king  of  Caerlleon  listened  with  satisfaction  to  the  young  man,  and 
said,  '^  A  just  opinion  is  thine;  let  thy  name  be  Tybiawn  [jiut 
opinion.]  By  the  prerogative  of  the  kings  of  the  Island  of  Bri- 
tain, let  what  thou  hast  decided  become  a  law.'*'  So  they  went  in- 
to council ;  and  who  but  the  sons  of  Cyneddav  Wledig  undertook 
the  achievement,  and  they  drove  out  the  Gwyddelians ;  and  over 
the  lands  which  they  subdued,  there  was  given  to  each  of  them 
dominion.  And  thus,  the  family  of  Cyneddav  Wledig  obtained 
regal  dominion  over  the  lands  of  the  Cymry ;  and  the  old  families 
which  existed  previously  were  extinguished,  because  they  were  not 
able  to  preserve  their  possessions  from  foreign  aggressors.  And  none 
retained  their  privileges  save  the  family  of  the  king  of  Dy ved,  and 
that  of  the  king  of  Caerlleon,  which  was  that  of  Bran  the  Blessed, 
the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith,  and  the  family  of  Urien.  And  there 
Uriwi  Rheged,  being  paramount,  confirmed  what  was  enacted  by 
the  counsel  of  Tybiawn. 


THE  CUSTOM  OF  THE  PRINCES  OF  WALES. 

It  was  the  custom  of  the  Welsh  Princes,  when  they  met  to- 
gether at  a  royal  banquet,  to  call  each  other  by  the  names  of 
dominions ;  as  Dinevor,  Aberfraw,  Mathraval,  Morganwg,  Mael- 
ienyth,  and  G^reinwg.  One  time  at  Llyswen  [the  white  court,] 
upon  the  Wye,  Morgan  the  son  of  Ithel  of  Morganwg  being  there, 
without  either  army  or  retinue,  some  there  were  who  disparaged 
him  on  that  account,  and  supposed  him  to  be  poor,  and  they  began 
to  talk  of  their  own  armed  retinues,  and  how  powerful  each  would 
be  should  he  meet  with  an  enemy  in  his  progress,  and  every  one 
was  strong  and  well  appointed  in  his  own  opinion ;  and  after  con- 
versing with  one  and  the  other,  and  seeing  Morgan  remain  silent, 
Anarawd  Gwynedd  asked  him,  "What  sayest  thou,  Morganwg T 


MISCELLANIES.  611 

Said  Morganwg,  "  I  can  traverse  my  own  country  where  I  like, 
without  fearinij  an  enemy ;  I  can  do  so  in  your  countries,  one  and 
all;  I  can  do  in  Wales  and  England,  and  leave  my  friends  every 
one  in  his  own  place  and  station,  without  their  heing  troubled  or 
oppressed ;  and  should  I  suffer  wrong  where  I  may  be,  scarcely 
would  it  be  heard  of  by  my  countrymen  than  they  would  be  seen 
armed,  and  troops  proceeding  towards  the  place  where  those  might 
be  who  should  have  injured  me,  and  avenge  me  on  them.  What 
need  of  a  guard  to  a  king  of  faithful  subjects  who  love  him  V 
"  Enough,**' said  Howel  the  Good,  "take  thou  the  precedence  of 
me,  and  for  the  sake  of  God,  and  all  good,  send  to  me  to  the 
White  House  on  the  Tave,  no  matter  what  twelve  of  the  sages  of 
Morganwg.**'  And  that  was  done.  And  Blegywryd,  his  brother, 
was  chief  councillor  to  them  ;  and  great  was  his  fame  for  wisdom. 
And  from  that  time  to  the  present,  the  motto  of  the  bards  of  Gla- 
morgan is  "  God  and  every  good.**'  And  the  motto  of  Dchoubarth 
Î8  "Heart  to  heart.*"  And  after  that  there  was  appointed  for 
Powys,  "  Whoso  slays  shall  be  slain  i^  and  Grufydd,  the  son  of 
Gynan,  appointed  for  Gwynedd,  "  Jesus.**'  And  Gereiniwg  had, 
"One  friend  before  a  hundred  strong  men.****  See  the  Institutes  of 
the  Bards.  Before  that  there  was  no  Bardic  Chair  for  Wales  but 
one,  that  of  Gaerlleon  upon  Usk. 


MADOC  MIX. 


Thus,  in  various  books,  is  the  account  of  the  treachery  of  Madoc 
Mîn,  bishop  of  Bangor.    (See  the  Fifteen  Tribes  of  North  Wales.) 

Madoc  Mîn,  the  son  of  Cywryd,  the  son  of  Ednowain  Bendew, 
king  of  Tegeingyl,  betrayed  the  Prince  Llewelyn,  the  son  of  Seis- 
syllt,  in  consequence  of  which  Llewelyn  was  slain.  And  after  that, 
the  same  Madoc  Mîn  betrayed  the  Prince  Grufydd,  the  son  of 
Llewelyn,  the  son  of  Scissyllt,  for  three  hundred  head  of  cattle, 
which  were  promised  him  for  his  treachery,  by  Harold,  king  of  the 
Saxons.  And  after  succeeding  in  his  treachery,  Harold  would  not 
pay  him  the  cattle ;  then  Madoc  went  in  a  ship  towards  the  town 
of  Dublin,  in  Ireland ;  but  the  ship  sank  without  the  loss  of  any 
life  except  that  of  Madoc  Min,  and  thus  the  vengeance  of  God 
fell  on  him  for  his  treacherv ;  and  thus  mav  it  be  to  everv  traitor 


612  MISCELLANIES. 

to  his  country  and  king,  in  all  the  world.  And  that  Madoc  was  a 
man  so  wily  and  deceitful,  that  he  was  called  Madoc  the  fox ;  ud 
80  the  most  treacherous  of  all  the  traitors  was  Madoc  Min. 


GRUFYDD,  THE  SON  OF  MEREDYDD. 

Gruftdd,  the  son  of  Meredydd  Gethin,  the  sod  of  the  Lord 
Rhys,  was  lord  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk,  and  of  the  territory  of  Me- 
redydd ;  and  he  built  the  castle  of  Machon,  in  Caerlleon ;  and  ha 
was  lord  of  Llandovery  and  Talley,  and  he  built  the  castle  of  Llan- 
dovery ;  and  in  that  castle  he  died  on  Saint  Mary's  eve,  in  Aognst, 
and  was  buried  in  Strata  Florida.  And  the  mother  of  Grufydd, 
the  son  of  Meredydd  Gethin,  was  Gwenllian,  daughter  of  Sir  lor- 
werth,  the  son  of  Owen  Wan,  lord  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk. 

Meredydd,  the  son  of  Grufydd,  the  son  of  Meredydd  Gethin, 
lord  of  the  possessions  of  Meredydd  and  of  Caerlleon  upon  Usk, 
built  the  castle  of  Newport  upon  Usk.  The  mother  of  that  Mered- 
ydd was  from  Llanaeron. 

And  Sir  Morgan,  the  son  of  Meredydd,  was  his  son  by  the 
daughter  of  Cadwgan,  the  son  of  Madoc,  lord  of  Radnor,  by  the 
daughter  of  Philip,  the  son  of  Meyric,  the  son  of  Gwas  TeUo,  of 
Gwent.  The  wife  of  Sir  Morgan,  the  son  of  Meredydd,  was  6ri«- 
sel,  the  daughter  of  David,  the  son  of  Meyric  of  Gwent;  and  of 
that  Grissel,  this  Sir  Morgan  had  a  daughter,  called  Angharad, 
the  daughter  of  Morgan;  to  which  daughter  the  following  £nglyn 
was  composed  : 

Prosperity  to  the  beauteous  maid  of  Caerlleon, 
Angharad,  daughter  of  Morgan. — Splendid  as  the  gold. — 
Of  the  wealth-dispensing  hand. — Best  of  daughters. 
Of  the  hue  of  the  drifted  snow. 

And  this  Angharad  was  mother  of  Morgan,  the  son  of  Llew- 
elyn, the  son  of  Llewelyn,  the  son  of  Ivor.  (A  leaf  wanting  here 
in  the  Red  Book  of  Pant  Lliwydd.) 

IEÜAN  GETHIN. 

Ieuan  Gethin,  the  son  of  Lleison,  the  son  of  Rhys,  the  son  of 
Morgan  Vychan,  the  son  of  the  Lord  Morgan,  the  son  of  Can- 


MISCELLANIES.  613 

doc,  the  son  of  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  Prince  of  Morgan wg, 
and  Gwent,  and  Gower. 

leuan,  the  son  of  leuan  Lloison,  was  with  Owen  Glandower,  de- 
molishing the  castles  of  the  traitorous  chieftains  in  Morganwg; 
and  when  the  day  turned  against  Owen,  and  he  was  forced  to  be- 
take himself  to  concealment,  leuan,  the  son  of  Lleison,  also  was 
compelled  to  go  into  concealment  in  Anglesey,  to  an  old  military 
friend  of  his ;  and  the  whole  time  he  was  there,  king  Henry  the  Fifth 
was  killing  and  oppressing  every  one  who  was  supposed  to  be 
favourable  to  Owen.  But  in  the  course  of  time,  it  was  agreed  be- 
tween the  Welsh  and  the  king  to  come  to  an  arrangement,  for 
money,  and  its  value  in  cows,  and  sheep,  and  other  cattle.  Then 
there  was  paid  for  leuan,  the  son  of  Lleison,  a  hundred  head  of 
cows,  and  two  hundred  sheep ;  after  which  he  returned  home. 
And  some  time  afterguards  the  king  caused  many  of  the  Welsh  to 
be  put  death,  because  they  could  not  pay  the  ransom,  either  in 
money  or  its  value,  on  account  of  their  poverty ;  and  when  this 
came  to  the  hearing  of  leuan,  the  son  of  Lleison,  he  uttered  this 
apothegm:  "Three  things  there  are  which  will  not  soon  bo  seen 
dry.  The  turf  of  Anglesey, — the  bottom  of  Llyn  Tegid, — and 
the  bloody  hands  of  Harry  Can.""  Henry  the  Fifth  was,  by  the 
Welsh,  called  Harry  Can.*  And  this  saying  became  proverbial, 
and  continues  so  to  this  day.  (From  the  book  of  Mr.  Basset,  of 
Llanylai.) 

RHYS  BRYDYDD.    [RHYS  THE  POET.] 

(From  the  book  of  the  Rev.  Roger  Williams,  i.  e.  a  collection 
which  he  made  of  miscellaneous  mattern,  but  chiefly  pedigrees,  be- 
ween  1600  and  1622.— Ab  lolo.) 

Rhys  Brydyth,  of  Llanharan,  of  the  house  at  tlie  source  of  the 
Kynllan,  "  a  little  Ry ver  of  that  name,  whcr  Ivan  Gitto,  ap  levan 
ysgolhaige  dyd  dwell."  Of  Rhys  Brydytli  came  Richard,  the  son 
of  Rhys,  and  to  Richard  was  born  Llewelyn,  the  son  of  Richard, 
who,  in  North  Wales,  was  called  Lewis  Morganwg. 

Rhys  Brydyth  had  another  son,  Icvan,  the  son  of  Rhys,  whose 
son  was  Thomas,  the  son  of  Ivan,  the  son  of  Rhys,  who  was  called 
Twm,  the  son  of  levan,  the  son  of  Rhys,  the  songster,  and  who 
dwelt  in  Llandydwg  [Tithingstow.] 

>  An  attempt  at  the  French  pronunciation  of  Uenry  Quint. 


614  MISCELLANIES, 

Llewelyn,  the  sod  of  Richard,  and  Thomas,  the  sou  of  Ivan,  were 
"  Coossine  germans." 


GRUFYDD,  THE  SON  OF  lEVAN,  THE  SON  OF  RHYS  BRYDYDD. 

[From  the  book  of  Thos.  Hopkin,  of  Llangrallo ;  where,  after 
the  foregoing,  this  addition  is  given. — Ab  lolo.] 

leuan,  the  son  of  Rhys  Brydydd,  had  another  son  called  Gru- 
fydd,  and  by  many  he  was  called  Gitto,  the  son  of  leuan.  He  also 
was  a  poet,  and  there  is  a  son  of  his  still  living  at  Blaen  Cynllao, 
called  Gitto  leuan,  Ysgolhaig  [the  scholar,]  and  by  others  leuan 
Grufydd;  a  learned  man  and  skilled  in  language,  and  a  poet. 


RHYS    BRYDYDD. 

Rhys  Brydydd,  of  Llanharan,  lived  in  the  house  of  Blaen  Cyn- 
llan.  Ho  had  two  sons,  one  was  Richard,  and  he  was  a  poet  and 
was  preceptor  to  lorwerth  Fynglwyd,  and  lived  in  Merthyr  Mawr, 
and  his  son  was  Rhys,  the  son  of  Risiart  Brydydd  of  Wig. 

The  second  son  of  Rhys  Brydydd  was  leuan,  and  in  Margam 
he  lived;  he  was  a  monk  there,  but  because  of  his  being  accounted 
unfaithful,  he  was  turned  out  of  the  monastery;  and  was  after 
that  holding  land,  and  married,  and  had  several  children,  and  he 
and  his  children  were  compelled  to  quit  that  place,  on  account  of 
Sir  Mathew  Cradock,  of  Swansea;  he  went  to  Merthyr  Cynoc,  in 
Breconshire,  where  he  remained  a  long  while,  and  after  that  came 
to  live  at  Llangynwyd,  and  kept  a  school  there.  He  was  a  poet 
and  a  good  songster.  leuan^  the  son  of  Rhys,  had  a  son  called 
Thomas,  the  son  of  leuan,  the  son  of  Rhys,  and  commonly  he  was 
called,  Twm  Ivan  Prys.  He  was  put  in  prison  in  the  castle  of 
Cynfig,  by  Sir  Mathew  Cradock ;  after  this  Sir  Mathew  gave  him 
his  freedom,  and  put  land  under  his  management,  in  some  place  in 
that  neighbourhood  ;  and  after  this  he  lived  at  Margam ;  and  after 
that  at  Llangynwyd,  and  in  his  old  age,  he  came  to  live  at  Llan- 
didwg,  and  ended  his  last  days  at  Margam.  He  was  a  good  do- 
mestic poet,  and  maker  of  songs ;  but  on  account  of  his  being  of 
the  new  faith,  he  had  many  against  him,  and  was  hated  very 
much;  he  lived  to  a  great  age,  for  he  said  in  rhyme  as  follows: 


MISCELLANIES.  615 

"  In  ono  thousand  six  hundred  exactly, 
And  four  years  complete, 
The  beginning  of  January,  (fair  computation,) 
I  am  one  hundred  and  thirty.**' 

[Out  of  the  book  of  Mr.  Lewys,  of  Penllyn.] 

In  the  book  of  Sion  Bradford,  the  History  of  Twm  leuan,  the 
son  of  Bhys,  is  as  follows : 

leuan,  the  son  of  Rhys,  was  a  monk  in  Margam,  but  he  was 
turned  out  of  the  monastery  on  account  of  being  a  Lollard  in  prin- 
ciples. After  this  he  married  a  nun,  who  was  turned  out  of  some 
nunnery,  and  they  lived  at  Cynfig ;  but  Sir  Mathew  Cradock,  of 
Swansea,  followed  him  with  the  law,  for  something,  probably  on  ac- 
count of  his  faith,  until  he  was  compelled  to  leave  Cynfig,  and 
then  he  took  a  place  in  Merthyr  Cynog,  in  Breconshire,  where  he 
held  some  land.  And  after  some  time  he  came  back  to  Glamorgan, 
where  he  kept  a  school ;  he  was  a  good  poet.  leuan,  the  son  of 
Rhys,  had  a  son,  called  Thomas,  who  was  Twm,  the  son  of  Ivan, 
the  son  of  Rhys,  the  poet  and  prophet.  He  was  in  some  ofSce  in 
the  monastery  of  Margam,  and  was  turned  out  from  thence,  and 
was  imprisoned  several  times  in  Cynfig  castle,  by  Sir  Mathew 
Caradoc,  who  at  last  gave  him  his  liberty,  and  behaved  liberally 
towards  him.  He  held  land  in  Margam  and  Llangynwyd,  and 
many  other  places,  until  some  extraordinary  thoughts  came  into 
his  mind,  which  occasioned  his  being  imprisoned  by  Sir  George 
Herbert,  of  Swansea,  in  Cynfig  castle.  And  after  he  regained  his 
liberty,  he  did  little  more  than  walk  about  the  country  as  a  beggar, 
thrashing  a  little  sometimes,  and  niaking  godly  songs,  and  pro- 
phesying many  things,  on  which  account  he  was  called  "  Twm 
of  the  fair  lies"  [Twm  Gclwydd  Teg.]  He  began  to  prophesy 
before  ho  was  imprisoned  by  Sir  George  Herbert,  and  it  is  said 
the  reason  was,  that  after  the  birth  of  the  son  and  heir  of  Sir 
George,  a  feast  was  held,  and  great  rejoicing,  at  the  christening  of 
the  child,  and  they  shod  the  horses  with  silver,  and  many  other 
costly  things  they  did  likewise.  Twm,  the  son  of  Ivan,  the  son  of 
Bhys,  seeing  this,  said:  ''Ha!  here  is  parade,  and  great  pride 
about  the  baptism  of  a  child  bom  to  be  hung  by  the  string  of  his 
forehead-band.*"*  Ho  was  seized,  and  put  in  prison,  in  Cynfig 
Castle ;  and  the  child  was  placed  in  the  care  of  a  nurse,  who  was 
ordered  to  watch  him  narrowly  and  carefully,  night  and  day ;  this 


616  MISCELLANIES. 

went  on  some  time,  when  it  was  reported  in  the  house  that  tl 
nurse  had  the  itch.  Sir  George  and  his  lady  sent  for  her  to  tl 
hall  to  them,  that  they  might  see  whether  it  was  true  or  not,  an 
when  they  saw  that  there  was  no  itch  upon  her,  they  went  wit 
her  back  to  the  chamber  where  the  child  was,  and  the  first  thioj 
they  saw  was  the  child  in  his  cradle,  having  twisted  his  hands  un 
der  the  string  of  his  forehead-band,  and  entangled  them  in  it  ii 
such  a  manner  that  he  got  choked,  and  died  from  that  cause,  or  as  ii 
might  be  said  with  truth,  he  hung  himself  in  the  string  of  hii 
forehead-band.  Then  they  sent  in  haste  to  liberate  Twm,  the  son 
of  Ivan,  the  son  of  Rhys,  and  to  give  him  money.  Another  time 
he  was  thrashing  in  a  barn,  and  a  young  lad  went  by  and  addres- 
sed him  as  follows ;  "  Wei,  Twm  Celwydd  Teg,  what  news  have 
you  to-day  V  "  There  is  news  for  thee,'^  said  he;  "  thou  shalt  die 
three  deaths  before  this  night."  " Ha!  ha!"'  said  the  youth,  "no- 
body can  die  more  than  one  death,"^  and  he  went  off  laughing.  In 
the  course  of  the  day,  the  lad  went  to  the  top  of  a  great  tree,  on 
the  brink  of  a  river,  to  take  a  kite'^s  nest,  and  in  thursting  his  hand 
into  the  nest,  he  was  wounded  by  an  adder,  brought  by  the  kite  io 
her  young  ones,  as  she  was  accustomed  to  do.  This  causing  him  to 
lose  his  hold,  he  fell  down  on  a  great  branch  and  broke  his  neck, 
and  from  there  into  the  river,  and  thus  he  met  with  three  deaths. 
To  be  wounded  by  an  adder,  to  break  his  neck,  and  to  drown. 

Twm,  the  son  of  Ivan,  the  son  of  Rhys,  was  a  good  and  godly 
man,  it  is  said,  and  a  good  poet,  and  many  songs  of  his  compositi- 
on are  still  extant  in  the  country,  and  it  is  said  he  printed  some 
of  them;  but  there  are  few  if  any  now  living  that  ever  saw  them. 
It  is  said  he  saw  written  in  a  little  manuscript  book  these  words: — 
"  Seek  after  God  with  all  thy  might,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and 
with  all  thy  understanding,  and  love  him  with  all  thy  affec- 
tion, and  with  all  thy  will,  and  with  all  thy  heart. 

"  Love  thy  neighbour  as  thou  wouldest  love  thyself,  and  suffer  for 

him  as  thou  wouldest  suffer  for  thy  God,  and  for  thy  dearest  friend, 

and  for  thyself. 

^^Love  every  thing  that  is  good,  and  becoming,  and  true,  and  jost, 

as  thou  wouldest  thy  God,  and  thyself. 

"Cleave  to  them  until  thou  art  as  much  one  with  them  as  God  is, 

and  by  doing  so,  thou  shalt  be  as  separate  from  every  evil,  and 

wickedness,  and  from  all  that  is  unseemly,  and  unbecoming,  and 

unrighteous,  and  unjust,  and  from  envy,  fraud,  and  delusion,  as 

God  himself  is. 


MISCELLANIES.  617 

"Fear  not  any  punishment,  or  pain,  or  any  want,  or  distress,  nor 
any  suffering  even  death,  and  be  not  hindered  by  them. 

•*  Covet  nothing  of  the  worldly  goods  thou  seest  or  hearest  of, 
or  nnderstandest ;  but  desire  the  good  things  of  Grod,  and  the 
grace  of  his  Holy  Spirit,  and  leave  to  thy  God  to  provide  for  thee. 

"  And  in  possessing  these  virtues,  thou  shalt  have  a  right  under- 
standing of  every  thing  in  the  world,  and  of  right  understanding  a 
right  knowledge,  and  of  right  knowledge,  the  comprehension  of  all 
that  was,  and  is,  and  shall  be;  and  of  that  knowledge  inspiration 
firom  God,  and  the  power  of  prophecy,  and  then  shalt  thou  under- 
stand and  show  all  that  is  to  come  in  the  world  till  the  day  of 
doom,  for  the  perception  of  God  shall  bo  in  thee." 

After  reading  this,  he  gave  himself  up  to  be  a  very  godly  man, 
and  uttered  many  prophecies,  and  would  not  possess  any  property 
in  the  world  excepting  what  was  voluntarily  bestowed  for  the  work 
he  did,  which  was  chiefly  thrashing  com. 


COELBREN  Y  BEIRDD. 

[The  Bardic  Alphabet.] 

ANCIENT  SYMBOLS. 

Before  the  time  of  Beli  the  Great,  the  son  of  Manogan,  there 
were  not  more  than  ten  letters,  and  they  were  called  the  ten  signs, 
viz :  a^p^c,  ê^  t^  f,  /,  r,  o,  s;  after  this  yti,  and  n,  were  added;  and 
after  that  four  others,  and  they  were  made  up  to  sixteen,  by  gene- 
ral consent  and  usage.  After  the  coming  of  the  faith  in  Christ, 
two  other  letters  were  added,  u,  and  d.  In  the  time  of  King  Ar- 
thur, there  were  twenty  primary  letters,  as  at  present;  by  the 
counsel  of  Taliesin,  Chief  Bard,  and  Domestic  bard  of  Urien 
Rheged;  and  on  the  division  of  the  eighteen,  there  were  formed  0, 
I,  and  U,  which  is  the  unutterable  name  of  Gt>d.  Before  this  ar- 
rangement it  was  0,  I,  0,  on  account  of  the  sixteen.  And  of  the 
primary  signs,  there  is  not  even  to  this  time  more  than  twenty 
letters,  or  twenty  signs ;  Geraint  Vardd  Glas  appointed  twenty- 
four  letters,  as  it  is  at  this  present  time,  but  the  four  are  auxiliaries. 

After  that,  by  the  counsel  of  bards  and  teachers  of  the  Chair 
Bards,  there  were  brought  into  use  by  the  improvement  of  the 
Bardic  Alphabet  thirty-eight  letters,  but  there  is  not  in  black  and 
white  [in  writing]  more  than  the  four  and  twenty  signs. 

4k 


618  MISCELLANIES. 


CUTTINGS. 


In  ancient  times,  letters  were  called  by  the  race  of  the  Cy 
"  Ystorrynau**'  [cuttings,]  and  after  the  time  of  Beli,  the  so 
Manogan,  they  were  called  letters,  and  before  that  there  wen 
other  letters  than  the  primary  cuttings ;  and  they  had  ever  1 
kept  secret  by  the  bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  for  the  presei 
tion  of  national  records.  Beli  the  Great  made  sixteen  for  himi 
and  he  established  that  arrangement  with  regard  to  them,  and 
pointed  that  there  should  never  afterwards  be  a  concealment  of 
knowledge  of  letters,  on  account  of  the  arrangement  he  made, 
should  the  ten  cuttings  remain  secret.  After  the  faith  in  Chi 
they  were  made  eighteen,  and  after  that  twenty,  which  order  ^ 
kept  till  the  time  of  Geraint  Fardd  Glâs,  and  he  made  tl 
twenty-four,  and  thus  they  were  for  many  ages,  until  the  tim< 
King  Henry  the  Fifth,  and  he  forbade  schools  to  the  Cymry,  i 
books,  and  the  materials  of  books,  and  on  account  of  that 
Cymry  were  compelled  to  betake  themselves  to  the  Coelbrei 
Beirdd,  and  cut  and  blacken  letters  upon  wood,  and  rods;  s 
every  owner  of  a  house  and  family,  who  desired  the  knowledge 
^  letters  and  reading,  was  obliged  to  take  bards  into  his  house;  i 
from  this  there  was  an  endowment  of  land  appointed  for  the  bai 
and .  they  became  very  numerous  in  Wales,  and  the  knowledge 
letters  was  more  general  than  before  the  prohibition;  and  on  tl 
subject  Llawdden  the  Bard  sang  thus : — 

Beware  of  being  wrong;  see  and  observe 
The  tendency  and  result  of  every  privation : 
It  is  an  adage  in  this  world, — 
"  What  produces  good  is  not  evil.**' 

That  is  to  say,  Where  there  was  no  school  to  be  had,  but 
English  one,  and  no  teacher  but  a  Saxon,  the  Welsh  would  stu 
their  own  language  more  than  ever,  and  increase  and  improve 
the  number  of  their  letters  and  cuttings,  until  they  came  to  th 
present  condition. 

THE  TEN  ORIGINAL  LETTERS. 

In  the  time  of  Owain,  the  son  of  Macsen  Wledig,  the  race 
the  Cymry  recovered  their  privileges  and  crown;  they  took  to  th 


MISCELLANIES.  619 

original  mother  tongue  instead  of  the  Latin  which  had  nearly  over- 
run the  Island  of  Britain,  and  in  Welsh  they  kept  the  records  of  their 
race  and  country,  restoring  to  memory  the  ancient  Cymraeg  with 
their  original  words  and  expressions;  but  in  consequence  of  having 
forgotten,  and  not  understanding  the  ancient  alphabet  of  their  ten 
original  letters  they  became  lost,  and  thus  arose  a  disagreement 
respecting  several  ancient  words,  that  is,  the  putting  of  two  letters 
where  only  one  was  required,  ccuin^  braan^  and  glaan^  instead  of 
cân^  brauy  and  glatiy  and  digerth  instead  of  dierth^  and  plegid  in- 
stead of  pleid^  and  many  others ;  also  putting  t  for  dd^  and  i  in- 
stead of  ^,  and  instead  of  y,  and  u  instead  of  e.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  instance  the  whole,  but  this  much  is  given  as  a  record  of  him  by 
whom  the  system  was  amended,  i.  o.  Talhaiarn  the  bard  of  Caerlleon 
upon  Usk,  under  the  patronage  of  the  Round  Table,  and  after  him 
Taliesin  Ben  Beirdd  arranged  the  ten  original  letters,  with  the 
right  understanding  of  them,  and  their  modes,  and  changes,  and 
proper  inflections,  and  thus  the  ancient  Cymraeg  was  duly 
restored. 


THE  BARDIC  WOODEN  FRAME. 

The  side  bars  must  be  split  in  two,  in  order  to  be  opened  and 
shut  to  receive  and  secure  the  cross  bars.  There  are  two  side  bars, 
and  in  each  frame,  it  is  generally  the  custom  to  have  twenty-four 
cross  bars,  though  there  may  be  as  many  as  may  be  required. 
Eighteen  or  twenty  are  often  seen,  and  not  unfrequently  thirty. 
And  in  the  frames  as  many  fastenings  as  are  necessary,  but  more 
than  three  [fastenings  are  inconvenient.  Sometimes  the  frame  is 
made  with  one  long  fastening,  and  perhaps  with  forty,  fifty,  sixty, 
or  more  cross  bars ;  and  where  it  is  so,  more  than  one  fastening 
would  not  be  manaireable.  The  cross  bars  should  ho  four  s<juare, 
with  the  angles  slightly  taken  off  to  the  full  depth  of  the  letter,  so 
that  theHetters  upon  one  side  may  not  appear  (m  tiie  edge  of  the 
other  side,  and  thus  on  every  side.  The  width  of  the  cross  bars 
should  be  the  length  of  a  grain  of  barlev-coni,  or  of  wheat;  and 
if  they  are  longer,  the  frame  will  be  unwieldy  and  heavy,  and  require 
much  room  in  carrying. 

Some  put  the  frame  into  the  blue  colour  in  which  wool  is  dyed, 
in  which  thev  let  it  ttand  till  all  the  sides  are  coloured  blue,  and 


620  MISCELLANIES. 

having  let  it  dry,  then  cut  the  letters,  which  will  be  white  and 
more  visible  upon  the  blue  wood,  than  if  it  was  not  coloured,  and 
the  letters  will  be  the  colour  of  the  wood.  Others  use  black,  green, 
or  red,  it  does  not  much  signify  what  colour  it  may  be,  so  that  there 
is  sufficient  difference  between  the  colour  of  the  wood  and  the  let- 
ters. The  best  wood  for  lasting  is  oak;  the  easiest  to  be  worked 
is  hazel,  willow,  or  alder ;  birch  is  a  good  tree ;  also  the  sloe- 
thorn,  and  the  hawthorn;  the  old  poets  formerly  liked  the  moun* 
tain  ash;  there  need  not  be  better  than  apple  trees  where  they  can 
be  had  smooth  for  lasting  apd  working.  Boiling  the  bars  in  sour 
lees  will  keep  them  from  the  grubs,  and  heating  them  hot,  and 
rubbing  them  with  bees^  wax,  half  roasting  them  until  the  wax  pe- 
netrates into  them  from  the  heat,  will  keep  them  from  decay  and 
rot,  whatever  wood  they  may  be  made  of. 


COELBREN  Y  BEERDD. 

Thus  says  Llywelyn  Sion. 

After  the  intestine  wars  of  Owain  Glyndwr,  the  king  forbade 
paper  or  parchment  to  be  brought  into  Wales,  or  to  be  manufsio- 
tured  there,  in  order  that  he  might  prevent  epistolary  correspon- 
dence between  one  Welshman  and  another,  and  also  between  the 
Welsh  and  foreigners;  and  this  to  revenge  the  support  of  Owain, 
which  was  given  by  all  the  people  in  Wales^  he  also  forbad  the 
bards  and  poets  to  go  their  circuits^  and  to  visit  the  different 
families  officially.  Then  they  recollected  and  had  recoorse  to 
the  ancient  custom  of  the  bards  of  the  Island  of  Britûn;  vix: 
the  cutting  of  letters,  which  they  called  the  signs  of  language  and 
utterance,  upon  wood  SkUji  sticks  prepared  for  the  purpose,  called 
Goelbren  y  Beirdd:  s^d  %lms  it  was  done.  They  provided  hazel, 
or  mountain  ash  m  the  winter,  and  also  it  was  customary  to  split 
each  stick  into  four  quarjbers^  until  in  the  course  of  time  they  wwe 
fully  dried;  tnen  to  trim  them  four  square  in  breadth  and  width, 
and  after  that  to  trim  down  the  comers  to  the  tenth  part  of  an  inch, 
and  this  was  done  that  the  signs  which  were  cut  with  a  knife  upon 
the  square  should  not  shew  thejgaselves  on  the  next  face,  and  thus 
on  every  one  of  the  four  faces^  Then  they  cut  the  signs,  some  of 
which  were  those  of  language  and  speech,  some  of  numbers,  or 
signs  of  science^  others  notes  of  mi^sic,  of  voice  and  string;  and  after 


MISCELLANIES.  621 

cutting  ten  of  such  bars  as  were  required,  then  they  prepared  four 
end  bars,  two  and  two,  which  were  called  piU^  and  cutting  them 
smooth  they  placed  two  together  side  by  side  across  the  frame, 
and  marked  the  place  for  the  ten  holes;  after  which  they  cut  half 
of  each  hole  in  one  bar,  and  half  in  the  other,  and  they  did  the 
same  with  the  other  two  bars;  then  they  took  the  cross  bars  on 
which  the  letters  had  been  cut,  and  made  a  neck  at  the  ends  of 
each  of  them,  the  breadth  of  a  finger;  then  they  placed  the  letter- 
ed sticks  with  their  numbers  upon  one  of  the  upright  bars,  on  one 
end  of  the  frame,  and  the  same  with  the  other  end  to  match  the 
holes,  and  with  strings  to  bind  them  tight  at  each  end  of  the 
lettered  sticks,  and  after  being  bound  all  tight,  the  book 
thus  constructed  is  called  Peithynen,  because  it  is  framed. 
The  upright  bars  keeping  the  whole  together,  and  the  cross  bars, 
viz:  the  lettered  sticks,  turning  free  in  the  upright  bars,  and  thus 
easy  to  be  read.  The  manner  of  reading  is  thus;  one  side  is  read 
first  according  to  its  number,  then  it  is  turned  with  the  sun,  and 
the  second  face  is  read,  and  each  other  the  same,  and  thus  from 
cross  bar  to  cross  bar  until  the  reading  is  finished.  A  number 
from  one  to  ten  being  on  the  face  to  mark  each  of  the  cross  bars, 
and  that  numerically  marked  is  the  first  to  be  read,  and  these  in 
order  turned  with  the  sun. 

There  are  forty  squares  of  the  cross  bars  in  every  frame,  and 
after  that  another  frame  is  constructed,  and  so  on  until  the  con- 
clusion of  the  poetry  or  composition.  And  where  more  than  ten 
cross  bars  are  wanted,  and  less  than  twenty,  there  are  so  many 
bars  as  are  wanted  placed  in  one  entire  frame.  The  reason  of  giv- 
ing ten  as  the  particular  number,  is,  that  ten  is  the  division  point  of 
numbers,  and  by  decades  all  numbers  are  arranged  until  language 
can  not  give  tliem  names.  Ten  is  the  perfect  circle,  and  ten  within 
ten,  or  ten  about  ten,  will  be  within  and  without  the  circumference, 
circle  within  circle  for  ever;  therefore  the  best  arrangement  of 
number  and  numbers  is  ten  and  tens.  And  it  is  not  possible  by 
any  other  method  to  keep  accounts  in  an  orderly  mapner,  in  strong 
places,  where  they  may  be  read  and  understood,  and  made  known, 
uniformly  and  consistently. 

After  having,  for  the  reasons  stated,  restored  the  ancient  art  of 
the  Cymry  in  letters  and  symbols,  it  was  submitted  to  the  Chairs 
and  Gorsedds  of  song  of  Dcheubarth  and  Morganwg,  and  the 
Eisteddvods  of  Gwynedd  and  Powys,  to  search  out  what  had  been 
lost  of  the  kuo\9rle(}ge  of  the  characters  of  the  Bardic  Coclbren,  and 


622  MISCELLANIES. 

what  improvement  and  extension  had  been  made  in  the  characters. 
And  then  they  confirmed  the  sixteen  characters  as  general  from 
the  first;  and  the  additions  which  from  time  to  time  had  been 
made  to  that  number,  until  the  time  of  the  Bardd  Glas,  when  thej 
were  confirmed  as  twenty  one  primitive  characters,  on  account  of 
the  vocal  sounds  of  the  Welsh  language.  After  that  they  were 
made  into  twenty  four  for  general  use,  and  there  were  no  more  ap- 
pointed for  domestic  learning  and  knowledge ;  but  the  Bards  luld 
on  their  private  alphabet  thirty  eight,  of  ancient  preservation  and 
private  record,  and  they  restored  them  to  use.  And  it  was  not 
understood  that  more  than  ten  of  them  could  be  put  under  an 
oath  of  secrecy  with  regard  to  their  forms,  and  those  were  called 
the  ten  originals ;  so  the  whole  thirty  eight  were  left  private,  but 
without  any  vow  or  oath ;  and  from  that  they  became  common,  as 
they  now  are. 

After  recovering  the  knowledge  of  the  Coelbrens,  (namely,  that 
of  the  Bards  and  that  of  the  Monks,i  nearly  every  person,  male  and 
female,  wished  to  learn  them,  and  to  construct  them ;  and  then  it 
became  the  trade  of  the  sieve-makers  and  basket-makers  to  cut 
upon  them  records  of  every  thing  that  required  to  be  perpetuated 
by  letter  and  book;  and  thus  it  was  till  the  time  of  Henry  VII. ; 
and  he,  being  a  Cambrian,  from  national  attachment  took  his 
countrymen  under  his  protection,  and  put  them  under  the  instme- 
tion  of  the  Monks  at  his  own  expense,  and  famished  them  gratui- 
tously with  as  much  paper  and  parchment  as  they  required ;  and 
they  were  taught  whichever  of  the  two  languages  they  desired, 
either  Welsh  or  English ;  and  many  learned  both ;  and  on  thai 
account  the  knowledge  of  letters  was  greater  and  more  frequent  in 
Wales  than  in  England ;  and  from  hence  also  there  were  number- 
less poets,  and  the  Abbots  placed  them  here  and  there  as  scholars; 
and  from  this  there  are  poets  as  domestic  tutors  to  the  present 
day,  proceeding  on  their  appointed  circuits  from  house  to  house, 
and  from  family  to  family ;  and  it  is  common  to  see  old  Coelbrens, 
but  it  is  not  usual  to  see  them  made,  excepting  for  the  honour  of 
gaining  the  chair,  or  for  the  payment  of  money  or  the  value  of 
money,  for  any  person  who  might  order  them;  and  there  are  many 
now  living  who  remember  using  the  Coelbren  y  Beirdd,  and  many 
Coelbrens  are  still  seen  in  the  houses  of  the  old  noble  families. 

The  following  is  the  method,  with  regard  to  ancient  records  and 
letters,  and  the  oral  record  of  the  Gorsedd,  preserved  by  those 
Courts  from  the  beginning ;  that  is  to  say : — 


MISCELLANIES.  623 

Ten  characters,  significant  of  language  and  utterance,  were  pos- 
sessed by  the  race  of  the  Cymry  for  ages  before  they  came  to  the 
Island  of  Britain,  as  a  secret  under  oath  and  vow  amongst  the 
learned ;  namely,  the  poets  and  reciters  of  verse,  and  professors  of 
wisdom  and  knowledge,  before  there  were  established  Bards ;  and 
in  the  time  of  Prydain,  the  son  of  Aedd  Mawr,  about  fifteen  hun- 
dred years  before  the  birth  of  Christ  by  the  blessed  Virgin  Mary; 
and  in  the  time  of  Aedd  Mawr,  regular  Bards  in  office  were  es- 
tablished, and  free  privilege  of  passage  granted  them;  and  after- 
wards the  learned  improved  the  Ooelbren  as  was  required,  for  its 
being  read  and  underistood,  until  sixteen  characters  were  intro- 
duced into  it;  and  in  the  time  of  Dyvnwal  Moelmud,  about  six 
hundred  years  by  record  and  computation  before  the  birth  of 
Christ,  the  sixteen  characters  were  established,  to  preserve  the 
language  and  expression,  and  every  record  of  race  and  country,  so 
that  no  other  system  could  be  found  as  good  for  maintaining  re- 
cords, and  arts,  and  wisdom,  and  the  right  usages  of  the  race  of 
the  Cymry,  and  their  privileges ;  and  the  ten  original  characters 
are  kept  secret  to  this  day  by  oath  and  vow,  and  no  person  except 
such  as  have  undertaken  the  vow  knows  them.  When  the  sixteen 
characters  became  opened  to  the  whole  country,  the  Coelbren  was 
further  improved  and  extended,  till  it  was  increased  to  eighteen  in 
the  time  of  Bcli  Mawr,  the  son  of  Manogan ;  and  after  that  to 
twenty ;  and  in  the  time  of  the  Bai  dd  Glas  to  twenty  one ;  but 
another  record  says  twenty  two ;  and  so  many  are  there  of  original 
letters  in  the  Welsh,  and  all  those  that  are  beyond  this  to  thirty 
eight  are  called  supplementary. 


THE  ARRANGEMENT  OF  VOCAL  POETICAL  METRES  OF 
GERAINT  VARDD  GLAS. 

The  oldest  system  on  record  of  memorials  and  recollections,  is 
that  of  Geraint  Vardd  Glas,  upon  the  poetic  metres ;  and  of  all 
that  is  extant  from  before  his  time,  there  is  nothing  remaining  ex- 
cepting what  may  be  discerned  by  the  learned  by  means  of  books. 
This  Geraint  was  brother  to  Morgan  Hon  [the  Aged,]  king  of 
Glamorgan,  and  he  collected  ancient  records  of  poetry  and  bardism, 
and  arranged  them  in  a  book  of  his  own  composition,  and  esta- 
blished them  by  the  laws  of  the  Chair  and  the  Gorsedd,  in  every 


624  MISCELLANIES. 

coantry  and  dominion  in  Wales ;  and  G^raint  excelled  in  knowledge 
and  judgment,  and  every  chair  in  Wales  and  England  was  ^ven 
him ;  from  which  he  was  called  the  Bardd  Glas  of  the  Chair. 
After  this  he  became  domestic  Bard  to  Alfred  king  of  England,^ 
and  he  remained  with  him,  giving  instruction  to  the  Gymry  in 
England,  and  to  the  Saxons ;  and  in  Winchester  he  lies  buried. 
And  on  the  system  of  Geraint  all  the  Bards  and  Poets  proceeded, 
until  the  time  of  BJiys,  the  son  of  Tewdwr,  king  of  Dinevor,  who 
had  fled  from  his  country  and  territory,  while  the  sons  of  lestyn» 
the  son  of  Gwrgan,  were  overrunning  Dinevor  and  Ystrad  Towy ; 
and  he  remained  in  Britanny,  where  he  acquired  new  arts  with 
regard  to  poetical  metres;  and  he  brought  them  to  Wales,  after 
having  recovered  his  country,  and  had  them  taught.  He  held  a 
great  Eisteddvod  in  Caermarthen,  according  to  the  system  of  the 
Bound  Table,  and  proceeded  according  to  the  judgment  of  the 
Chair ;  and  he  placed  his  new  arts  under  the  protection  of  the 
Bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain  in  Wales,  and  England,  and  Strath 
Clyde ;  and  after  that  Grufydd,  the  son  of  Cynan,  brought  it  to 
the  Vale  of  Conway,  in  Qwynedd,  where  he  held  an  honourable 
Eisteddvod^  followed  by  another  in  Glen  Achled,  in  Ireland ;  and 
to  that  came  Bards  and  Minstrels  from  Wales,  and  England,  and 
Scotland,  and  Norway,  and  Ireland,  where  he  established  a  privi- 
leged system  of  metres  and  their  appurtenances ;  and  after  that, 
after  having  been  delivered  from  his  prison  in  Chester,  he  ap- 
pointed an  Eisteddvod  to  be  held  every  three  years  in  Aberfraw, 
in  Anglesey;  and  from  the  Chair  of  Aberfraw  the  Bards  and 
Minstrels  of  Gwynedd  received  their  knowledge,  and  their  de- 
grees, and  privileges ;  and  he  appointed  new  ordinances,  different 
from  the  old  systems  of  Wales  and  Brittany ;  and  instead  of  the 
Bound  Table,  he  appointed  the  hall  of  the  Prince  of  Aberfraw, 
and  the  halls  of  other  chieftains.  He  who  understands  will  see, 
that  it  was  from  the  system  of  Geraint  Vardd  Glas  that  the  one 
of  Brittany  was  taken,  and  also  a  great  portion  of  that  of  Omfydd, 
the  son  of  Cynan,  was  taken,  called  the  System  of  Glen  Achled, 
and  that  of  Aberfraw,  under  emendation,  amplification,  extension, 
and  adornment;  and  therefore  Lewys  Morganwg,  in  his  book  upon 


1  Geraint  Vaidd  Glas,  or  the  Azure  Bard,  is  supposed  by  some  to  hare 
been  the  same  person  with  Asser  Menevensis,  a  monk  of  St.  David's,  who  at  the 
request  of  King  Alfred  went  to  reside  with  him  as  his  preceptor,  and  wis 
made  Bishop  of  Shirbume.  He  wrote  the  Life  of  Alfred,  which  is  still  extant 


MISCELLANIES.  625 

Poetry,  called  the  system  of  Greraint  the  old  original  system;  and 
he  says  that  the  system  of  the  Bound  Table  is  the  one  of  Brittany, 
called  also  that  of  Caermarthen,  as  it  existed  under  King  Arthur  in 
Oaerlleon  upon  Usk,  and  so  it  is  now  held  in  the  Chair  of  Tir 
larll ;  but  there  is  little  worth  noticing  in  it,  except  the  know- 
ledge of  what  formerly  appertained  to  minstrelsy. 


THE  CHAIR  OF  TIR  lARLL. 

The  Chair  of  •  Tir  larll  was  established  by  Morgan,  lord 
of  Aberavan,  instead  of  that  of  Arthur  in  Caerlleon  upon  Usk. 
After  that,  the  last  Earl  of  Clare  but  one,  granted  to  it  an  endow- 
ment of  plough-land  in  Bettws  Llangynwyd,  and  in  Llangynwyd, 
and  also  the  right  of  grazing  for  the  six  summer  months,  from  the 
first  of  May  to  the  first  of  November ;  and  then  the  Chair  was  re- 
moved from  its  station  in  Llanvihangel  Avan  to  Tir  larll,  where 
it  was  held  alternately  at  the  church  of  Bettws  and  at  that  of  Llan- 
gynwyd; and  therefore  was  called  the  Chair  of  Tir  larll. 
And  many  poets  and  talented  composers  belonged  to  this  Chair, 
where  no  such  poet  or  composer  was  to  be  found,  except  those 
who  had  been  either  bom  or  reared  within  its  privileged  pre- 
cincts, and  there  matriculated.  The  Chair  of  Tir  larll  was  most 
frequently  held  on  the  greensward  of  Bettws.  At  other  times 
upon  the  mound  of  Crui;  y  Diwlith,  on  the  green  of  Baedan 
Morgeila. 


THE  RULES  AND  CUSTOMS  OF  THE  CHAIR  OF  TIR  lARLL. 

The  Chair  of  Tir  larll  was  established  under  the  protection  of 
Sir  Gilbert  Clare,  Prince  of  Glamorgan.^  And  he  renewed  their 
privileges  to  the  Bards  and  Poets  of  Wales,  as  they  existed  in 
former  ages,  for  the  acquirement  of  learning  and  profitable  know- 
ledge,  and  sciences.  And  these  are  the  Rights  and  established 
Customs : — 

'  This  title  may  appear  somewhat  ntrange  ;  nevertheless,  it  is  not  the  mere 
creation  of  the  annalut,  nor  altogether  the  unauthorized  assumption  of  the 
chieflam  himself,  as  the  Earls  of  Clare,  of  this  race,  were  descended  from  the 
ancient  Welsh  Princes  of  that  country.    See  their  Pedigree  in  page  383. 

4  L 


626  MISCELLANIES. 

The  Chair  of  Tir  larll  is  held  under  the  sanction  of  the  Lord- 
ship of  Glamorgan,  on  each  of  the  principal  festivals,  in  right  of 
vrarranted  privileges,  without  litigation  and  unmolested,  by  procla- 
mation and  notice  of  a  year  and  a  day,  for  the  purpose  of  transacting 
such  business  as  may  be  brought  before  it,  and  no  opposition  to  its 
authority  is  allowed.  And  the  protection  of  the  Lord  of  the  district 
is  aflForded  to  every  Bard  and  Minstrel,  who  shall  according  to 
rule  and  order  appear  before  it,  provided  he  shall  be  found  pro- 
ficient in  the  nine  rules  of  versification  and  its  appurtenances, 
according  to  the  regulations  of  the  Bards  and  Minstrels  of  Wales. 
And  it  must  be  held  in  the  sight  and  hearing  of  the  country  and 
the  chieftain,  and  in  the  face  of  the  sun,  and  the  eye  of  light,  and 
under  the  protection  of  God  and  his  peace. 

A  Bard,  certified  as  a  proficient  in  the  knowledge  and  science  of 
versification  and  its  appurtenances,  by  judgment  and  graduation  of 
a  convened  assembly,  ought  to  take  to  him  pupils  for  instruction 
in  learning  and  books,  and  the  conventional  knowledge  of  the 
ancient  Bards  of  the  Cymry ;  namely,  not  less  than  three  pupils 
at  the  same  time,  on  account  of  the  three  degrees  conferred  upon 
students  of  versification ;  namely,  one  at  the  same  time  of  each 
of  the  three  degrees ;  and  the  degrees  are  conferred  in  the  follow- 
ing manner : — 

1.  The  unaccomplished  disciple,  is  one  who  is  not  acquainted 
with  the  art  of  versification,  inasmuch  as  he  will  continue  to  be 
under  instruction  until  he  is  acquainted  with  the  Welsh  language 
as  regards  its  construction,  its  derivations,  the  force  of  its  words 
and  its  expressions ;  to  understand  it,  in  its  reading  and  ortho- 
graphy, with  respect  to  lettering  and  syllables,  correctly  and  truly. 
Also,  he  ought  to  understand  the  chief  points  of  the  metres; 
namely,  the  measures,  the  rhymes,  the  initial  repetitions,  the  feet, 
and  alliterations,  in  accordance  with  the  conventional  rules  of 
Chair  and  Gorsedd,  and  their  due  application  and  arrangement, 
according  to  name,  class,  and  signification,  and  exhibit  them,  in 
his  own  certified  work.  After  he  has  thus  exhibited  them  to  his 
teacher,  and  obtained  his  word  for  him  before  the  Chair,  he  may 
be  graduated  as  a  proficient  in  versification ;  and  that  upon  his 
conscience.  Or,  in  default  of  the  teacher^s  being  present,  by  a 
written  certificate  under  his  hand,  he  may,  without  regard  to  (^ 
position,  upon  word  and  upon  conscience,  be  instituted  a  pẁficieDt 
in  versification^  together  with  its  requisite  knowledge  and  appur- 
tenances, under  the  sanction  of  instruction  and  preceptor. 


MISCELLANIES.  627 

2.  A  progressing  pupil,  is  one  who  is  acquainted  with  all  that 
is  required  of  the  preceding;  and  before  he  is  advanced  to  a 
higher  degree,  he  must  learn  and  acquire  every  characteristic  and 
quality  of  verse  and  stanza  properly  belonging  to  the  Welsh  lan- 
guage, and  exhibit  them,  of  his  own  composition,  certified  upon 
the  word  and  conscience  of  a  teacher,  and  he  shall  be  entitled  to 
be  graduated  as  a  proficient  in  versification  and  its  appurtenances. 
Also,  he  ought  to  understand  every  particular  respecting  the 
Welsh  language,  and  the  art  of  versification,  and  the  privileges 
and  established  customs  of  the  Bards  and  Minstrels,  and  of  their 
c  hairsand  ceremonies  of  institution.  Likewise,  he  roust  under- 
stand the  order  and  arrangement  of  the  genealogical  tables,  and 
descent  of  the  race  of  the  Cymry ;  together  with  their  rights  and 
usages,  certified  by  record,  and  annal,  and  archive,  and  chair. 
And  his  privilege  shall  be  confirmed  by  the  word  of  his  preceptor. 
And  where  he  cannot  be  present,  then  there  shall  be  a  written 
certificate  under  his  hand,  and  that  certificate  is  called  a  gift  of 
matriculation. 

3.  A  pupil  of  right  is  he  called,  who  knows  all  the  departments 
and  rules  of  versification  and  its  appurtenances,  correctly  and  de- 
cidedly, according  to  the  regulations  of  the  Chair ;  and  he  shall  no 
longer  stand  by  the  word  and  certificate  of  a  preceptor,  but  in  right 
of  his  own  knowledge  and  genius  ;  and  he  shall  found  his  claim  and 
right  upon  the  judgment  of  the  Chair  and  the  Gorsedd ;  and  in  this 
the  consent  of  the  country  by  proclamation  and  notice  of  a  year 
and  a  day  shall  not  be  requisite.  He  shall  also  be  privileged  to 
engage  in  poetical  disputation;  and  after  he  shall  have  gained 
three  Chairs,  he  shall  bo  presented  with  the  privileges  and  rights 
of  a  Cliief  of  Song,  which  is  to  be  a  Chaired  Bard;  and  he  shall 
be  called  a  Cliaired  Preceptor,  and  shall  take  to  him  pupils,  name- 
ly, one  at  the  same  time  in  each  of  the  three  degrees. 

A  Chair  of  assembly  is  the  name  given  to  that  of  a  Gorsedd 
held  by  certificate  of  original  institution,  under  the  judgment  of 
country  and  race.  The  place  of  assembly  may  be  in  any  open 
ground,  whilst  the  sun  is  upon  the  sky;  and  it  is  called  the 
Greensward  of  Songs.  And  it  shall  be  upon  the  grassy  face  of 
the  earth,  and  chairs  shall  be  placed  there,  namely,  stones ;  and 
where  stones  cannot  be  obtained,  then  in  their  stead  turfs ;  and 
the  chair  of  assembly  sliall  be  in  the  middle  of  the  Gorsedd. 

Also,  every  place  of  worship,  and  every  precinct  of  a  church, 
shall  be  a  place  for  bardic  assembly,  and  likewise  every  civil  and 


628  MISCELLANIES. 

manorial  court ;  namely,  the  courts  of  justice  and  law ;  also,  every 
spot,  whether  of  open  or  enclosed  pasture  which  is  greensward^  or 
domestic  hall ;  and  such  hall  shall  possess  confirmed  privilege, 
after  it  has  been  placed  before  the  country  for  attendance  and 
audience  by  proclamation  of  a  year  and  a  day,  until  the  end  of 
three  years,  free  of  access  for  attendance  and  audience  of  people 
assembling  at  court  and  at  church,  and  in  every  lawful  assemblage 
as  it  is  in  fair  and  market. 

At  every  Gorsedd  of  the  Chair  of  assembly,  there  should  be 
published  the  Instructions  of  the  Bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain ; 
that  is  to  say,  the  records  of  the  knowledge,  and  sciences,  and  of 
the  arrangements,  and  rules,  and  privileges,  and  customs  of  the 
Bards.  Also,  publication  should  be  made  of  the  circuit  records  of 
Mabon,  the  son  of  Medron ;  that  is  to  say,  the  names  and  memo- 
rials of  the  bards,  poets,  learned  men,  and  sages  of  the  Island  <^ 
Britain  of  the  race  of  the  Cymry;  and  of  whatever  they  were 
eminent  for,  of  noble  and  worthy  acts.  And  of  the  kings  of  the 
Island  of  Britain,  and  their  honourable  actions,  together  with  the 
times  in  which  they  lived,  and  their  pedigrees  and  descent. 

With  regard  to  bards  and  poets  at  the  Gorsedd  meetings,  they 
should  not  be  molested  by  litigation  or  obstruction,  but  be  left  in 
quietness,  and  be  supported  under  the  protection  of  the  country 
and  race,  and  under  the  protection  of  Ood  and  of  his  peace, 
with  every  power  and  counsel,  and  every  means  of  people  and 
chieftain. 

After  rehearsing  the  instructions  and  records,  the  exhibitions 
shall  be  called  for ;  then  any  bard,  who  has  any  thing  which  he 
wishes  to  exhibit,  shall  exhibit  it  to  the  Chair,  whether  it  be  poetry, 
or  genealogical  roll,  or  record  of  honourable  achievement,  or  im- 
provement in  knowledge  and  science.  After  the  exhibitions,  hear- 
ing shall  be  given  to  such  claims  and  appeals  as  shall  be  brou^t 
forward.  And  after  that,  dialogues  and  chair  disputations  con- 
cerning poetry  and  its  appurtenances;  and  afterwards  they  shall 
proceed  to  hold  a  council  of  judgment  upon  the  merits  of  what  has 
been  brought  before  the  Chair  and  the  Gorsedd  ;  and  then  shall 
publication  be  made  of  the  decision  and  the  judgment,  and  the 
presents  shall  be  made.  Then  the  public  worship,  and  after  that 
the  banquet  and  conferring  of  honours;  then  shall  all  depart  to 
their  houses,  and  every  one  to  his  own  residence. 


MISCELLANIES.  629 


THE  INSTITUTES  OF  POETICAL  COMPOSITION. 

In  the  time  of  Morgan  the  Aged,  prince  of  Glamorgan,  his 
brother  Greraint,  who  was  called  Geraint  Vardd  Glâs,  and  the 
Bardd  Glâs  of  the  Chair,  being  chief  of  song,  and  chaired  teacher, 
roles  and  institutions  according  to  what  before  existed  amongst  the 
ancient  Gjmry  were  formed,  for  poetry  and  its  appurtenances, 
and  for  the  rights  and  regulations  of  recording  profitable  know- 
ledge, and  for  the  remembrance  of  praiseworthy  matters;  and  for 
the  restoring  to  notice,  and  usage,  the  ancient  excellencies  of  the 
customs  and  prÌYÌleges  of  graduates  in  poetry,  and  such  acts  as  are 
indispensable  to  a  civilized  country,  and  race,  and  which  existed 
since  the  time  of  Prydain,  the  son  of  Aedd  Mawr;  in  order  to 
bring  tl^em  to  recollection,  and  re-establish  them  by  the  judgment, 
and  counsel,  and  authority  of  assembled  sages,  and  under  the 
protection  of  the  country  and  chief,  and  of  custom  and  order,  so 
that  no  one  should  become  a  bard,  excepting  in  conformity  to  the 
institutions  established  by  that  Morgan,  by  the  counsel  and  judg- 
ment of  Geraint  his  brother,  and  agreeably  to  the  will  and  com- 
mand of  assembled  country  and  chief,  together  with  the  judgment 
of  the  sages,  and  learned  men.  And  then  were  appointed  Gorsedds 
and  Chairs,  according  to  the  ancient  customs,  and  Eisteddvods  in 
the  princess  palace,  one  in  three  years,  with  a  law  that  no  one 
should  become  a  graduate  in  poetry,  excepting  by  the  authority 
of  the  chair,  or  of  the  Eisteddvod,  held  once  in  three  years  in 
the  palace  of  the  prince,  and  under  the  sanction  of  the  chief  of 
song,  and  a  Chaired  Preceptor,  certified  respecting  his  chaired 
graduation,  and  office,  that  he  is  qualified  as  is  required  of  him,  in 
the  knowledge  necessary  to  a  graduate  in  poetry;  and  that  no  one 
shall  become  a  graduate  excepting  according  to  this  system;  and 
this  is  the  ancient  system  and  institution  of  the  bards  of  the  Island 
of  Britain. 

■  And  in  that  Grorsedd  a  reform  was  made  in  alliteration,  as  pre- 
vious to  that  time  there  was  no  assonant  alliteration  but  by  ac- 
cident, excepting  the  single  alliteration  only;  namely,  a  word  in 
the  middle  of  the  latter  half  of  the  line  to  rhyme  with  another 
word  in  the  first  half,  as  Taliesin  Ben  Beirdd  used  in  his  poetry. 

And  after  that  alliteration  was  repeatedly  improved  from  time 
to  time,  and  from  chair  to  chair,  until  the  Welsh  alliteration  be- 


630  MISCELLANIES. 

came  superior  to  all  the  alliterations  of  the  world  in  whatever 
language. 

And  after  this  decided  arrangement,  so  that  to  this  day  the 
rules  which  he  framed  are  adopted  and  in  force  in  such  a  manner 
as  not  to  be  gainsaid,  Gkraint  Vardd  Olas,  that  is  to  saj,  the 
Bardd  Glas  of  the  Chair,  went  to  king  Alfred  to  London,  aa  his 
domestic  bard;  and  many  Welshmen,  bards  of  song  and  of  stringy 
went  with  him  to  England,  where  Alfred  appointed  those  who  were 
bards  of  song,  as  chairmen  where  Welshmen  resided  in  England; 
and  from  that  arose  an  improvement  in  learning  and  knowledge 
amongst  the  Saxons. 

After  that  Bledd jn  the  son  of  Eynvyn,  and  his  brother  Rhiw- 
allon,  the  son  of  Ejnvyn,  after  obtaining  possession  of  Owynedd 
and  Pow js,  made  an  honourable  feast  in  Conway,  by  proclamation 
and  notice  of  a  year  and  a  day,  and  invited  there  graduates  in  the 
science  of  song  and  of  stringed  music,  where  laws  and  institntioiui 
and  privileges  were  framed  for  them,  in  the  time  when  William 
the  Conqueror  took  the  crown  of  England  from  the  Saxons. 
And  at  that  feast  the  bards  of  string  music,  under  the  pro- 
tection of  the  bards  who  were  chiefs  of  song,  and  others  of  poets 
and  minstrels;  and  at  that  festival,  there  was  appointed  a  system 
and  code,  genealogy  and  herald  bards  were  established  where  they 
had  not  previously  existed,  possessed  of  official  privileges,  by  tlw 
national  arrangements  of  Wales;  and  a  system  was  instituted  for 
the  science  of  armorial  bearings  and  their  appurtenances. 

After  that  Rhys,  the  son  of  Tewdwr,  prince  of  Dinevor,  and 
Dyved,  and  Eeredigion,  having  from  necessity  been  some  time  io 
Brittany,  returned  to  Wales,  and  brought  with  him  the  system  of 
the  Bound  Table,  where  it  had  become  forgotten,  and  he  restored 
it  as  it  is  with  regard  to  minstrels  and  bards,  as  it  had  been  at  Gier^ 
lleon  upon  Usk,  under  the  Emperor  Arthur,  in  the  time  of  the 
sovereignty  of  the  race  of  the  Cymry  over  the  Island  of  Britain, 
and  its  adjacent  Islands ;  and  it  was  placed  under  the  protection 
of  the  church  of  Cattwg,  in  the  vale  of  Neath,  in  Glamorgan, 
which  was  from  the  time  of  St.  Teilo  possessed  of  the  privilege, 
ecclesiastically  confirmed,  that  neither  war  nor  weiqxms  of  slaughter 
could  be  brought  into  the  parish  of  Cattwg,  neither  by  the  people 
of  the  adjacent  country,  or  any  other  whatever,  under  bond  and 
pledged  hand  throughout  all  the  districts  of  the  Isle  of  Britmn. 

And  then,  after  placing  the  system  under  the  protection  of  the 
Church,  an  honouräble  Eisteddvod  was  held  by  proclamation  of  a 


MISCELLANIES.  631 

year  and  a  day,  to  which  an  invitation  vras  given,  under  the  pro- 
tection of  the  state,  to  all  the  bards  to  assemble  in  the  hall  of  the 
Gharch ;  where,  according  to  the  royal  institution  of  the  Bound 
Table,  degrees  were  conferred  on  chiefs  of  song,  and  gifts  and  pre- 
sents made  them,  as  in  the  time  of  the  Emperor  Arthur.  And 
after  being  there  forty  days,  all  returned  to  their  houses.  And 
lestyn,  the  son  of  Owrgan,  prince  of  Glamorgan,  took  the  Roll  of 
the  Bound  Table  with  him  to  his  new  castle  in  Oardiff,  under  a 
claim  that  he  was  prince  of  the  territory,  namely,  that  of  the 
church  and  parish  of  Gattwg,  in  his  dominion ;  and  that  the  cus> 
tody  of  the  Boll  belonged  to  him.  And  because  the  Court 
of  Oaerlleon  upon  Usk,  which  was  the  Court  of  Arthur,  was 
within  his  dominions,  he  asserted  that  his  Court  was  that  of  Ar- 
thur continued  down  to  his  time ;  and  so  he  took  the  Boll  by 
fraud,  and  by  force,  to  Cardiff  castle  ;  and  he  suffered  for  that ;  for 
Bhys  made  a  hostile  expedition  against  lestyn,  the  son  of  Gwr- 
gan,  and  defeated  him  in  the  battle  of  Cadlas.  Upon  which 
lestyn,  the  son  of  Owrgan,  sent  to  Bobert  Fitzhamon  and  the 
Normans  for  assistance  against  Bhys,  and  slew  him  in  the  battle 
of  Cynllwyn  Du  [the  black  treachery.]  But  the  foreigners,  having 
heard  what  lestyn  had  done  of  violence  and  devastation,  took  from 
him  his  castle  and  his  territory,  and  expelled  him. 

After  that,  Bobert  Earl  of  Gloucester,  the  son  of  Henry,  the 
son  of  the  Bed  King  [William  Bufus,]  married  Mabli,  the  daugh- 
ter of  Bobert  Fitzhamon,  and  received  the  Lordship  of  Glamor- 
gan in  right  of  his  wife.  He  gave  presents  to  the  bards  in  Tir 
larll ;  and  in  a  hall  of  his  there  he  placed  the  Boll  of  the  Bound 
Table,  in  the  custody  of  the  Bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain ;  and 
from  that  the  two  systems  were  united,  namely,  that  of  the  White 
Stones,  and  that  of  the  Bound  Table,  as  they  exist  there  at  pre- 
sent ;  so  that  with  the  Bards  of  the  Chair  of  Tir  larll,  more  espe- 
cially than  any  of  the  poets  of  Wales,  are  the  principal  systems 
preserved  in  their  completeness,  to  this  day.  After  this  the  Prince 
Grufydd,  the  son  of  Bhys,  the  son  of  Tewdwr,  made  a  feast  in 
Ystrad  Towy,  and  in  Cardigan  Castle  in  Keredigion,  where  bards 
of  song  and  string  music  were  sumptuously  entertained,  and  re- 
ceived honourable  presents  of  gold  and  silver,  and  apparel  and 
horses,  together  with  other  valuable  presents  of  jewels.  In  the 
year  1100,  whilst  Grufydd,  the  son  of  Cynan,  was  in  Ireland  with 
his  relatives,  there  was  held  an  Eisteddvod  of  musicians  of  stringed 
instruments,   and  bellows    instruments,    [bagpipes;]  and  there 


632  MISCELLANIES. 

returned  with  him  to  Wales  chief  musicians  of  string  music, 
and  improvements  were  made  in  stringed  music  upon  what  had  ex- 
isted prior  to  that  time  in  Anglesey  and  Gwynedd.  And  that 
Eisteddvod  in  Ireland  was  called  the  Eisteddvod  of  Glynachlaeh; 
and  at  that  time  the  Irish  excelled  all  nations  in  stringed  music. 

After  the  time  of  the  princes,  the  nohles  descended  from  the 
princes  took  the  hards  and  musicians  under  their  protection  and 
support,  in  order  that  the  Welsh  language  might  be  maintained 
and  preserved  from  being  lost  or  corrupted ;  and  that  the  Bardism 
of  Wales  might  be  preserved,  and  also  the  science  of  poetry  with 
its  appurtenances,  together  with  the  records  of  the  rights  and  usages 
of  the  race  of  the  Gymry,  and  those  of  the  Bards  of  the  Isle  of  Britain. 
Also,  the  genealogy  of  the  nobles  and  commonalty,  and  the  notice 
and  celebration  of  every  man  for  act  and  distinguished  achievement, 
and  of  due  maintenance  of  manners  and  propriety,  and  of  law  and 
custom,  and  of  all  that  is  requisite  for  a  gentleman  to  practise,  in 
public  and  domestic  life,  before  God  and  man,  according  to  the 
judgment  of  the  wise  and  conscientious,  of  lawful  arts,  with  re- 
gard to  poetry  and  the  points  of  knowledge,  needful  in  upright- 
ness, and  truth,  and  peace^  toward  country  and  race.  And  from 
this  it  proceeds  that  we  have  not  entirely  lost  the  arts  of  song  and 
bardism,  and  the  ancient  science  of  poetry  and  its  appurtenances, 
and  the  rights  and  usages  of  the  Bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain; 
and  that  the  Welsh  language  has  not  fallen  into  a  state  of  cormp- 
tjion,  and  foreign  accent  and  idiom,  as  the  Saxon  language  did^  for 
want  of  such  sciences  as  would  preserve  it  in  memory.  For  the  life 
of  language  is  the  knowledge  preserved  in  it,  and  the  life  of  know- 
ledge is  language,  and  the  means  of  preserving  in  it  are  words  and 
expressions,  forcible  and  clear,  for  the  forming  of  judgment  and 
correct  understanding. 

ARMLETS  OF  THE  BARDS. 

The  Bard's  Armlet  is  worn  on  the  arm  below  the  shoulder  joint; 
and  in  Gwynedd  it  was  anciently  called  Caw,  as  also  in  Dehen- 
barth,  and  often  in  Glamorgan  it  was  so  called  likewise;  therefore  the 
bard  was  called  the  Bardd  Caw  [or  the  Bard  of  the  Band,]  after  be 
had  received  the  order  of  Pen  Cerdd  [or  the  Ghirf  of  Song,]  and 
the  three  Beirdd  Caw,  included  the  Privardd  [Chief  Bard,]  the 
Ovydd   [Ovate,]  and  the  Derwyddvardd  [or  the   Dmid  Bird,] 


MISCELLANIES.  633 

otherwise  called  Privardd  or  Bardd  Glâs,  Arwyddvardd  or  Gwyn 
Vardd,  [the  Bard  of  the  Sign,  or  the  White  Bard,]  and  the  Bar- 
gadvardd  and  Gylvardd.  In  the  Institutes  of  the  Bound  Table, 
the  Armlet  [Breichrwy]  was  called  amrwy^  and  also  aerttÿ;  and  after 
that  time  and  from  disuse,  the  primary  uniform  dress  was  abandon- 
ed, and  the  fringe  alone  was  considered  of  equal  value,  and  represent- 
ing the  same  honour  with  the  entire  dress.  And  the  whole  grand 
dress  is  not  now  worn,  excepting  where  it  is  received  as  a  present  of 
privilege  and  honour  from  a  king,  or  a  lord,  q(  a  sovereign  of  a 
territory,  or  at  the  marriage  of  a  chieftain  lineally  descended  from 
the  ancient  princes. 


OF  THE  INSIGNIA. 


There  are  three  general  Insignia : — The  Robe,  the  Wand,  and 
the  Collar. 

There  are  three  Insignia  of  Privilege : — The  Chair,  the  Axe,  and 
Golden  Ball.  The  Ball  represents  fulness  and  completeness  in 
the  authority  of  the  Gorsedd.  The  Chair  represents  judgment  by 
j)rivilege.  The  Axe  represents  improvement  and  extension  of 
knowledge  and  science,  warranted  by  judgment. 

The  Chair  represents  authority  and  judgment ;  and  wheresoever 
the  Chair  exists,  it  is  possessed  of  judgment  by  the  privilege  of  the 
Bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  provided  there  is  record  of  its  being 
possessed  of  judgment  and  privileged,  and  no  record  of  its  being 
refused  and  rejected.  The  Bards  of  Gwynedd  and  Powys  held  the 
Gorsedd  by  the  authority  of  the  Oh&ir  under  the  protection  of  the 
prince. 

Deheubarth  held  under  the  Eisteddvod,  and  bore  a  Chair  and 
Axe;  and  the  Chair  was  the  chief  badge. 

The  Axe  is  the  symbol  of  science  and  of  its  improvement ;  and  tlie 
Bards  of  Glamorgan  bear  it  through  privilege  of  the  Chair.  And 
the  Axe  has  privilege ;  viz.  the  person  who  bears  it  by  warrant  of 
the  judgment  of  the  Chair,  is  authorized  to  shew  improvement  in 
knowledge  and  science  before  the  Chair  and  Gorsedd.  And  he  has 
,  precedence  in  that,  and  his  word  is  warranted. 

The  Golden  Ball  is  borne  by  the  Bards  of  Gorsedd  of  the  Island 
of  Britain.     It  is  an  emblem  of  completeness,  and  it  is  supreme  of 

4m 


634  MISCELLANIES. 

all  other  matters  in  learning  and  science  ;  and  where  the  Ball  is 
borne,  there  is  privilege  to  bear  all  the  other  badges  and  insignia. 

The  Wand  denotes  privilege ;  and  where  there  is  a  sitting  in 
judgment,  it  is  not  right  to  bear  any  insignia  except  the  Wand, 
because  no  one  is  entitled  to  authority  more  than  another  where 
law  and  judgment  are  observed;  for  judgment  rests  on  the  supre- 
macy of  law ;  and  no  one  can  know  to  whom  it  belongs,  as  it  rests 
with  the  highest  number,  and  no  one  knows  with  whom  in  parti- 
cular that  number  is.  And  no  one  can  be  higher  than  another 
in  law,  and  judgment  by  law.  And  after  knowing  the  judgment 
of  law,  it  is  right  to  place  that  judgment  in  trust  with  the  person 
who  may  be  appointed  as  an  officer  for  it ;  and  that  man  is  to  be 
chosen  by  law ;  and  that  law  does  not  rest  on  the  judgment,  but 
on  the  person  who  is  made  judge. 

A  chaired  chief  of  song  shall  wear  gold  on  his  badge,  and  every 
other  chief  of  song  shall  wear  silver.  A  bard  who  is  chief  of  song 
and  preceptor,  is  termed  silver- wearing;  but  the  president  of  a 
Gorsedd  is  styled  gold-wearing. 

FABLES. 

According  to  the  judgment  of  wise  men  and  eminent  teachers, 
the  Bard  ought  not  to  mention  improbable  things  in  his  poetry, 
such  as  the  stories  of  Arthur  and  his  Warriors,  and  the  Knight 
of  the  Green  Wood,  as  such  things  as  these  are  not  true,  accord- 
ing to  the  judgment  of  wise  men,  and  the  possibility  of  nature  and 
circumstances ;  and  this,  according  to  the  precepts  of  the  chief 
bards  of  the  Island  of  Britain,  ought  not  to  be;  because  no  benefit 
can,  and  no  amusement  ought  to,  be  derived  from  lies.  There 
cannot  be  a  bard  except  by  the  inspiration  of  God,  and  there  can- 
not be  a  lie  by  the  inspiration  of  God ;  and  if  such  stories  are 
found  in  any  compositions  of  the  old  bards,  they  are  to  be  under- 
stood as  some  sort  of  allegory  on  some  sort  of  possible  truth.  It 
is  however  permitted  to  compose  a  fable ;  but  unwise  people  mis- 
understand fables,  and  make  them  lies  by  taking  them  for  un- 
doubted truth ;  whereas  it  is  nothing  but  truth  of  the  same  de- 
scription with  the  allegorical  stories  invented  in  the  old  times,  to 
teach  wisdom ;  but  the  unwise  perverted  their  meaning,  till  they 
became  unintelligible,  and  afterwads  evident  falsehood ;  and  books 
were  filled  with  monstrous  lies.  And  it  is  not  permitted  to  a  bard 
to  meddle  with  such  falsehoods ;   but  if  he  composes  a  fable,  let 


MISCELLANIES.  635 

him  take  care  that  its  composition  be  such  as  to  show  it  is  a  fable, 
and  not  a  history  of  any  event ;  and  let  him  take  heed  that  it  is 
so  imagined,  that  instruction  and  wisdom  may  be  derived  from  it, 
together  with  prudence  and  beneficial  knowledge. 

[Whatever  degree  of  antiquity  may  be  assigned  to  any  part  of  the  foregoing 
code,  it  is  evident  that  this  last  section  is  comparatively  but  very  recent ;  as 
it  is  altogether  more  consonant  with  the  sentiments  of  some  severe  modem 
morallzer  than  with  the  spirit  of  Bardism.]] 


COATS  OF  ARMS. 

After  the  establishment  of  the  custom  of  Armorial  Bearings, 
the  Chair  Bards  bore  the  arms  of  the  Lord  of  the  territory  in 
which  they  were,  as  the  Bards  of  Glamorgan  bore  the  coat  of  arms 
of  Morgan,  the  son  of  Ithel ;  namely,  a  Chevron  argent  in  an  azure 
field,  and  about  the  Chevron  golden  ears  of  com,  and  on  the 
Chevron  three  green  trefoils  ;  that  is  to  say,  these  were  the  Arms 
of  Glamorgan  before  the  time  of  lestyn  the  son  of  Gwrgan,  who 
changed  them  to  what  they  now  are.  Others  of  the  Welsh  Bards 
bore  the  Arms  of  the  territory  where  they  dwelt ;  and  this  is  by 
custom  and  usage  of  courtesy,  and  not  by  law  from  an  original 
and  primary  statute. 

The  Bards  decorated  their  tribunals  with  the  following  herbs 
and  trees;  namely: — 

1.  The  Trefoil  for  the  Alban  Eilir  [Spring  Quarter.] 

2.  The  Blessed  Oak  for  the  Alban  Hevin  [Summer  Quarter.] 

3.  Ears  of  Wheat  for  the  Alban  Elved  [Autumn  Quarter.] 

4.  The  Missletoe  for  the  Alban  Arthan  [Winter  Quarter.] 


THE  NAMES  OF  THOSE  WHO  FOUNDED  CHURCHES  AND 
CHOIRS  IN  GLAMORGAN. 

1.  Eygen',  (by  some  called  Eurgain,)  sister  in  the  faith  to  Saint 
Hid,  who  was  called  Joseph  of  Arimathea.  She  founded  the 
church  and  college  of  Caer  Urgon,  called  by  some  Caer  Worgom, 
and'  now  Llanilltyd,  from  the  name  of  lUtyd,  knight  and  saint. 

2.  Saint  Hid,  who  founded  Llanilid. 

•S.  Lies,  the  son  of  Cocl,  who  founded  Llandafi*,  and  Rhatb 
Vawr,  and  manv  others  of  which  the  nauicu  are  now  unknown. 


636 


MISCELLANIES. 


4.  Saint  Dyvan,  who  founded  Cor  Dyvan 
dered  by  some  unbelievers,  and  thence  the  ] 
tliyr  Dyvan. 

5.  Fagan  founded  Llanfagan  Vawr,  [the  j 
and  Llanfagan  Vach,  [the  little,]  called  now 
Illtyd  Varchog  [the  Church  oilUtydthe  Kn 

6.  Saint  Medwy  founded  Llanvedwy ;  wh 
in  the  wars  of  lestyn,  and  never  was  repaired 

7.  Saint  Doche^  called  also  Saint  Doch^ 
choirs  in  Glamorgan  of  his  own  name ;  and  i 
sons  that  he  came  with  Dyvan  into  the  Is 
others  say  he  came  with  Cadvan  from  Armoi 

8.  Grarmon  founded  Llancarvan. 

10.^  Gildas,  the  son  of  Caw,  founded  1 
Weeg  Vawr. 

11.  Sant  Tathan,  from  the  land  of  Ewyas, 
and  a  small  choir  of  forty  saints  were  there  \ 

12.  Saint  Cattwg  founded  Langattwg  N 
near  Barri. 

13.  Caw,  lord  of  Cwm  Cawlwyd,  found< 
from  thence  the  church  was  moved  to  Trelah 

14.  Saint  Cirig  founded  Forth  Cirig,  f( 
sailors'  souls,  and  a  port  for  them. 

15.  Saint  Barrwg  founded  Barri  and  Peni 

16.  Edeym,  the  son  of  Gwrtheym,  found 
choir  of  three  hundred  saints  there. 

17.  Gwrgau,  the  son  of  Ithel,  founded  Lli 
Gilston. 

18.  Saint  Eleri  founded  St.  Eleri. 

Ì  9.  Saint  Segin,  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  f 

20.  Lord  Spencer  founded  the  church  of  ] 

21.  Feirio,  the  son  of  Gildas,  founded  Llai 

23.  Morgan,  the  son  of  Adras,  founded  A 

22.  Saint  Isan,  of  Illtyd'*s  college,  foundec 

24.  Granville  the  Knight  founded  the 
[Neath  Castle.] 

25.  Llydwn  the  Knight  founded  the  choi] 

26.  Saint  Crallo,  brother  in  the  faith  tc 
his  college,  founded  Llangrallo.     Others  say  i 

>  Wrongly  numbered  in  the  t 


t^ 


MISCELLANIES.  637 

in  the  time  of  Lies,  the  son  of  Goal,  and  founded  Llangrallo ;  it 
went  to  ruins,  and  the  church  was  founded  a  second  time  by  Gru- 
fydd,  the  son  of  lestyn. 

27.  Morgan,  the  son  of  Meyrig,  founded  Coetty. 

28.  Einion,  the  son  of  Gollwyn,  founded    Llantrisaint,  after 
Llangawrdav  was  burnt. 

29.  Saint  Tudvyl  founded  Merthyr  Tudvyl. 

30.  Elian  founded  Llanelian  (Eglwys  Ilan.) 

31.  Gwrvan,  Bishop  of  Llandaff,  founded  Llansanfraid  Vawr, 
and  the  church  of  Trenewydd  Ynottais  [Newton  Nottais.] 

32.  Saint   Teilo  founded  Aes  Vawr,  and  Llandeilo  Verwallt, 
in   Gower;    and  it  was   called   Llandeilo  Vaenor. 

33.  Saint  Gatwardd,  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  founded  St.  Dunwyd. 

34.  Marcross  was  founded  by  Samson,  a  bishop,  and  saint  of 
the  college  of  Illtyd. 

35.  Saint  Gwrgi,  of  the  choir  of  Doche,  founded  Penarth. 

36.  Llanvemog  was  founded  by  Saint  Memog,  of  the  choir  of 
Dochwy. 

37.  Sili  was  founded  by  Saint  Gadell. 

38.  Saint  Treiddyd,  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  founded  Llan- 
tryddyd. 

39.  The  founder  of  St.  Andras  is  not  known. 

40.  The  founder  of  Llanelwan,  now  called  Troflemin,  is  not 
known. 

41.  Emyr  Llydaw  founded  Pendeulwyn. 

42.  Saint  Bleiddan,  from  the  land  of  Gaul,  and  brother  in  the 
faith  to  Saint  Garmon,  founded  Llanvleiddan. 

43.  Saint  Nudd,  of  the  college  of  Illtyd,  and  a  king,  founded 
Llysvronudd. 

44.  Owaiu,  the   son   of   Morgan    the   Aged,  founded   Ystrod 
Owain. 

45.  Maenarcli,  Earl  of  Hereford,  founded  Golli  Gaer. 

40*.  Cystenuyn  Vawr,  and  Macseu  Wledig,  founded  Gacrlleon 
on  the  Usk. 

47.  Morgan,  the  son  of  lestyn,  founded  Aberavon. 

48.  Arthur,  and  afterwards  Ivor,  the  son  of  Llewelyn,  founded 
Maesaleg. 

49.  Cydwaladr  founded  Llanvihangel  Vedwy. 

50.  Yiiyr  Gwent  founded  Machcn. 

51.  Tewdrie,  the  son  of  Teithvaleh,  founded  Bedwas. 

52.  Tcwdi'ic,  the  son  of  Teithvaleh,  founded  Llauduw. 


638  MISCELLANIES. 

53.  Saint  Gana,  the  daughter  of  Tewdwr   Llydaw,   founded 
Llangana. 

54.  Hjrwel,  the  son  of  Owain,  the  son  of  Morgan  the  Aged, 
founded  Cerrig  Hywel. 

55.  Saint  Brychan  founded  Gwenvo. 

56.  Meyrig,  the  son  of  Tewdric,  founded  Llanyair  Misgyn. 

57.  Saint  Cynwyd  founded  Llangynwyd. 

58.  Llandyvodwg,  and 

59.  Ystrad  Dyvodwg,  were  founded  by  Dyvodwg,  who  was  a 
saint  of  the  college  of  lUtyd. 

60.  Cadoc,  the  son  of  Qwynlliw,  founded  Llanveithin. 

61.  Gadell,  a  saint  of  the  college  of  Cadoc,  founded  Llangadell. 
65.^   Saint  Lleirwg,  of  the  choir  of  Gaerlleon   on  the   Usk, 

founded  Llanleirwg.     According  to  others,  Lleuver  Mawr. 

66.  Saint  Aran  founded  Llanaran. 

67.  Saint  Garai,  of  the  choir  of  Bangor,  founded  Llanarai. 

68.  William,  Earl  of  Gloucester,  founded  Pyle. 

69.  The  same   William,  Earl  of  Gloucester,   founded  Llan- 
vawdlan. 


Y  CWTTA  CYVARWYDD 

The  book  called  the  Compendium  of  History  of  Glamorgan  wm 
written  by  Meyrig,  Treasurer  of  Llandaff,  who  called  his  book 
the  "  Cwtta  Cy varwydd  o  Forganwg,"  and  from  this  lie  himself 
was  called  by  this  name;  but  there  are  now  in  this  book  niany 
additions  to  the  matter  which  it  at  first  contained.  This  Meyrig 
wrote  the  History  of  the  whole  Island  of  Britain;  a  Book  of  Pro- 
verbs; the  Rules  of  Poetry;  and  Welsh  Theology.  He  also  trans- 
lated the  Gospel  of  St.  John  from  the  Latin  into  Welsh,  with 
commentaries ;  and  these  books  were  at  Abermarles'  about  fifty 
years  ago. — lago  ab  Dewi. 


EXTRACTS  FROM  THE  CWTTA  CYVARWYDD,  (VOL.  17,  PLAS  QWYX.) 

Let  it  be  known  to  all  British  people  that  there  are  seven  Cau- 
trevs  in  Glamorgan,  in  the  Lordship,  and  in  the  Bis<liopric.  The  fir>t 

*  Wroiip:ly  numbered  in  the  text.  '  In  Cacrmartheiisblre. 


MISCELLANIES.  639 

is  Cantrev  Bychan ;  the  second  is  the  cantrev  of  Gŵyr  [Gower,]  and 
Cydwely;  the  third  cantrev  is  Gorwenydd;  the  fourth  is  the  can- 
trev of  Penychen ;  the  fifth  is  Gwynllwg»  and  Edelygion ;  the 
sixth  cantrev  is  Gwent  Iscoed  [below  the  wood ;]  the  seventh  can- 
trev is  Gwent  Uwch  Coed  [above  the  wood;]  Ystrad  and  Ewyas 
are  those  called  the  two  sleeves  of  Gwent  Uwch  Coed,  and  also 
Erging,  and  Anerging ;  as  the  whole  boundaries  are  given  in  the 
Llyfr  Teilaw. — [See  Llyfr  Teilo,  or  Liber  Landavensis.] 

A  FRAGMENT. 

And  he  rode  on  till  he  came  to  a  place  on  high  land,  abounding 
in  corn  and  hay,  where  there  were  hedged  enclosures^  and  fair 
houses  of  stone  whitened  with  lime,  and  lakes  full  of  fish,  and 
vineyards,  and  gardens,  and  green  orchards  in  full  fruit,  and  plants, 
and  sweet  flowers  of  the  best  growth  of  the  earth,  and  cattle,  and 
sheep,  and  all  kinds  of  singing  birds;  and  in  the  wooded  slopes  were 
seen  numbers  of  stately  oaks,  which  had  grown  for  ages;  and  the 
voices  of  the  horn  and  the  huntsman  leading  on  the  silver-sound- 
ing pack,  in  pursuit  of  the  red- vested  and  deceitful  fox,  along  the 
wild  and  ferny  ridges,  with  a  host  of  noble  and  honourable  visitors 
in  the  pursuit ;  and  the  shouts  out  of  towns  and  villages  mixed 
with  the  sound  of  the  voices  and  horns,  on  the  way  where  that  thief 
of  lamb  and  poultry  was  flying ;  frequent  also  was  heard  the  sound 
of  the  flail  and  the  wheel,  and  the  hatchet,  the  bleating  of  sheep 
and  cows,  the  song  of  the  bard,  and  the  lover,  together  with  the 
barking  of  dogs,  and  noise  of  cocks  and  little  children ;  and  on  the 
side  of  the  road  were  stone-houses  white-limed,  windows  of  glass, 
and  every  habitation  bespoke  wealth  and  health,  and  good  will  in 
wise  and  happy  hearts.  "  Woe  is  my  destiny,*"  said  Meilir,  "  that  I 
should  not  live  hero  as  long  as  I  have  a  portion  in  this  world;  but 
it  is  otherwise ;  far  different  are  the  circumstances  among  which 
God  has  placed  my  lot,  and  I  will  content  myself  with  them,  come 
what  may."^ — (History  of  Meilir  and  the  Maid  of  Uavod  Wen.) 


CHARTER  OF  LLANILLTYD  VAWR,  CALLED  BY  THE 
ENGLISH  LAXTWIT  MAJOR. 

Be  it  known,  an»!  be  it  law  to  all  princes,  and  lords,  and  noble- 
men, and  barons,  and  their  peers,  and  yeomen,  and  aliens,  that 


640 


MISCELLANIES. 


we,  Robert  earl  of  Gloucester,  in  England,  and 
in  right  and  privilege  of  the  race  of  the  Cyi 
morgan,  in  national  right  and  privilege  of 
and  in  right  of  our  own  hereditary  possessio 
clare,  and  by  authority  of  this  letter  do  grant 
of  citizens  in  the  barony  of  Llanilltyd  Va^ 
hereafter  is  shown ;  that  is  to  say,  their  pri^ 
as  they  have  ever  been  possessed  of  them,  a 
customs,  and  rights  of  the  race  of  the  Cym 
court,  or  nobles,  or  whether  yeomen,  or  alien 
or  non-proprietors,  to  be  free  to  them  accorc 
privileges  and  law,  to  assemble  by  their  priv 
ings,  and  their  courts,  according  to  their  cu 
casion,  and  arrangement,  and  usage,  accordii 
law  which  they  ever  formerly  enjoyed;  and 
in  this  letter  to  the  citizens  and  our  faithi 
barony  of  Cynfig,  requiring  them  to  see  th 
according  to  law,  whether  as  appertaining  to 
church,  or  in  right  of  arms,  or  arts  and  scien< 
knighthood,  or  regarding  fairs,  or  markets,  oi 
whether  it  be  of  claim,  or  disclaim ;  and  they  a 
that  it  be  seen,  appointed,  and  ordered,  that 
law  observed  towards  them,  and  amongst 
the  other,  and  right  and  claim  of  privilege, 
ourselves,  according  to  records  of  law,  to  o 
scendants  for  ever,  and  homage  done  to  us 
would  have  been,  if  this  Charter  had  not  beei 


THE  CHARTER  OF  SWYDD  Y  WA 

Be  it  known  to  all  who  see  or  who  hear  this 
of  Arundel,  and  Lord  of  Y  Waun  [Chirk,]  se 
tenants  of  the  aforesaid  Lordship  thus.     Ei 


*  In  the  year  1330,  this  Richard  Fitz-Alan,  son  an 
Alan,  Earl  of  Arundel,  was  fully  restored  in  blood  an 
which  had  been  forfeited  upon  the  attainder  of  his  fi 
in  132G.  Richard  died  m  1375.  The  Lordship  of 
sions  in  North  Wales,  descended  to  him  from  his  a 
who  married  Matilda  Verdun,  widow  of  Madoc,  the 
of  Powys. 


MISCELLANIES.  641 

seen  and  understood  the  Charter  of  our  honourable  father,  Ed- 
mund, Earl  of  Arundel,  which  he  granted  to  his  tenants  gene- 
rally, &c.  And  in  testimony  of  this,  we  have  set  our  seal,  &c.  in 
the  twenty-ninth  year  of  the  reign  of  Edward,  the  third  of  that 
name  after  the  Conquest  (1356.) 

Be  it  known  unto  all  who  now  are,  and  who  hereafter  shall 
come  into  the  world,  that  we,  Richard  Arundel,  Lord  of  Swydd 
y  Waun,  seeing  and  understanding  the  Charter  which  our  beloved 
father,  Edmund  Earl  of  Arundel,  granted  to  his  free  tenants,  &c. 


AGRICULTURAL  PROVERBS. 

January  will  strike  down. 

February  will  despoil  a  giant. 

March  will  slay. 

April  will  flay. 

May  will  raise  the  heart. 

June  will  make  a  merry  door-way. 

July,  a  merry  cattle-fold. 

August,  a  merry  host. 

September  rejoices  the  birds. 

October, — cheerful  is  social  intercourse. 

November  begins  the  lamentation. 

December, — ^beware  its  anger. 


A  small  bagful  of  March  dust  is  worth  a  large  bag  of  the  king's 
gold. 

A  swarm  of  bees,  if  had  in  May,  is  worth  eight  oxen-load  of  hay. 

A  June  swarm  is  good  if  healthy.     A  July  swarm  is  not  worth 
a  straw. 

If  the  grass  grows  in  February,  it  will  not  grow  much  after 
throughout  the  year. 

If  the  meadow  grows  in  March,  plenty  will  be  seen  to  follow. 

Happy  our  lot,  if  a  mild  April  will  clothe  [with  green]  the 
ground  and  the  branches  of  the  grove. 

A  showery  May  will  produce  a  loaded  land  of  com  and  hay. 

The  month  of  June,  it  is  well  if  it  be  partly  wet  and  partly  dry. 

It  is  poison  to  the  horse  and  ox,  if  July  be  not  dry. 

4n 


G42  MISCELLANIES. 

If  August  be  found  dry,  the  Welshman  may  then  rejoice. 

The  middle  of  September  if  dry,  will  make  a  cellar  full  of  good 
ale. 

A  gossamery  spring  and  a  full  pocket. 

A  dry  summer  never  left  a  famine  after  it. 

February  will  blow  the  snake  out  of  its  rest. 

A  cold  May  will  make  a  full  bam  and  an  empty  churchyard. 

March  wind  and  May  sunshine  will  make  ugly  what  would  not 
otherwise  be  so. 

Better  to  see  thy  mother  on  her  bier,  than  to  see  fair  weather 
in  January. 

A  swarm  of  bees  in  July,  its  highest  price  is  a  fern  seed. 

Three  things  will  prosper  in  hot  weather  ;  bees,  and  wheat,  and 
acorns. 

Three  things  will  prosper  in  rain ;  chickweed,  and  thistles,  and 
elder. 

A  year  of  haws,  a  monied  year ;  a  year  of  nuts,  a  lousy  year. 

A  nutty  copse,  a  mottled  harvest. 

Wet  and  warmth  in  April  will  cause  the  farmer  to  sing  like 
the  nightingale. 

When  the  rain  is  lost,  it  will  come  from  the  east. 

When  the  fair  weather  is  lost,  it  will  come  from  the  north. 

A  dry  April,  every  thing  languishes. 

When  every  thing  grows,  every  thing  will  live. 

A  cold  May,  a  healthly  day,  a  sign  of  summer  with  little  sickness. 

A  kind  April  will  wet  the  bush  and  dry  the  bush. 

February  will  fill  the  ditches,  and  March  will  drink  it  up  in 
draughts. 


RHYMING   PROVERBS. 


Hour  after  hour  great  is  the  gift  of  God. 

Whoso  possesses  the  grace  of  God  is  rich. 

Long  the  tongue,  short  the  wit. 

A  slothful  tongue,  an  active  understanding. 

When  profit  comes  to  his  hand,  the  wise  will  be  silent. 

The  idle  must  have  work  to  do. 

Vain  is  tlie  advice  not  sought. 

The  fool  loves  the  sound  of  his  own  voice. 


MISCELLANIES.  G43 

Whoso  loves  wisdom  will  not  practise  deceit. 

Truth  is  the  eldest  child  of  God. 

The  strongest  blow  is  the  judgment  of  conscience. 

Sure  to  the  righteous  is  the  grace  of  God. 

Good  for  evil  will  take  thee  to  heaven. 

Better  the  yielder  than  the  avenger. 

Manifest  in  every  man  is  his  origin. 

Often  is  the  devil  found  in  a  garb  of  light. 

The  deepest  water  will  be  smoothest. 

The  true  home  verily  is  heaven. 

Do  thou  in  the  covert  what  thou  wouldst  do  in  a  palace. 

Remember  in  every  concealment  that  there  is  a  God  who 
sees  thee. 

A  clean  conscience  is  above  harm. 

Happy  is  he  whose  life  is  pure. 

Do  good  and  thou  needest  not  fear. 

Disagreeable  is  every  truth  where  it  is  not  loved. 

Could  every  one  who  sees  learn,  there  would  be  none  un- 
learned. 

He  verily  is  not  good  who  cannot  become  better. 

Evil  will  befall  profligacy. 

Whom  God  preserves  is  safe. 

Who  loves  God  is  safe. 

Whoso  loves  his  God  is  provident. 

Whoso  considers  God  is  wise. 

The  blindest  of  the  blind  is  an  unwise  man. 

Whoso  loves  fame,  let  him  depart  from  his  acquaintance. 

Whoso  wishes  for  respect,  let  him  be  courageous. 

The  bone  of  the  old  in  case  of  necessity. 

The  want  of  a  mate,  is  it  not  real  want  Ì 

Adversity  and  refusal  will  make  a  man  wise. 

Keep  thy  secret  within  thy  lips,  and  no  one  will  reveal  its 
matter. 

The  sluggard  never  went  to  the  wood. 

Man  knows  his  going  but  not  his  coming. 

Early  rising  is  the  better  half  of  the  day^s  work. 

The  sluffsfard^s  hedges  are  full  of  holes. 

The  possession  of  genius  is  honourable  to  the  aged. 

Whoso  doeth  an  injury  must  be  on  his  guard. 

To  the  faint  heart  swift  feet  are  good. 

Every  one  will  sing  where  money  can  be  got. 


644  MISCELLANIES. 

Sickness  for  wealth  is  grievous  sickne 
Swift  to  the  feast,  swift  to  the  grave. 
Swift  on  horseback,  swift  to  the  coflin 
Swift  on  foot  will  reach  old  age. 
Let  the  strongest  oppress  and  the  wes 
Each  evil  and  each  fault  awaits  its  fel 
The  real  friend  will  be  seen  in  adversi 
Violence  is  insulting  truth. 
What  one  does  in  anger  is  a  whim  of 
Certain  is  the  success  of  the  experien< 
Counsel  from  the  wise,  judgment  froi 
Gentleness  and  patience  will  make  th< 
That  is  deemed  best  that  is  had  from 
Despised  and  base  what  is  easily  obta 
After  leaping  it  is  too  late  to  refrain. 
The  best  jewel  is  a  sheath  for  the  ton 
The  tongue  of  the  fool  is  a  raging  fire 
From  the  book  of  Esa 
Copied  by  lol 


Ä 


POETRY. 


[The  first  collection  under  this  head  consists  of  a  series  of  twenty  songs, 
bearing  the  name  of  Rhys  Qoch  of  Tir  larll,  the  son  of  Richard,  the  son  of 
Einion,  the  son  of  Collwyn,  and  said  to  be  of  the  date  of  about  1140.  These 
songs  are  of  an  amatory  character,  and  generally  addressed  to  a  lady  of 
the  name  of  Gwenn. — From  the  Book  of  John  Bradford.] 


I.  A  LOVE  SONG. 


In  this  song,  the  bard  expresses  his  weariness  of  the  winter,  and  his 
longing  for  the  month  of  May,  when  ho  can  enjoy  his  green  palace  of 
woods,  with  its  leafy  walls  and  their  floors  of  trefoil,  where  sing  the 
cuckoo,  the  thrush,  the  nightingale,  and  the  lark  ;  and  add  to  all  this  the 
society  of  Gwenn. 


11.    A  SONG  TO  GWENNS  HAIR. 

Herb  the  bard  not  only  describes  the  lady*s  hair,  which  he  says  reaches 
to  her  heel,  but  extends  his  eulogium  to  her  personal  appearance  gene- 
rally. Her  smooth  fair  forehead  he  compares,  in  colour,  to  the  stream 
rushing  over  the  rock;  her  eyes,  brilliant  as  stars,  are  like  those  of  Lunet, 
and  her  figure  like  that  of  Enid,  (two  characters  of  Arthurian  Romance 
in  the  Mabinogion,  àc, ;)  whilst  her  tread  is  so  light,  that  the  trefoil  does 
not  bend  beneath  her.    She  moves  like  the  swan  or  sea-mew  on  the  wing. 


III.    A  LOVE  SONG. 

In  this  composition,  which  is  in  the  usual  strain  of  lovers'  complaint, 
the  bard  adopts  the  echo  style  of  verse,  conmion  in  the  middle  ages  ;  in 
which  the  last  word  of  each  stanza  b  ooAde  the  first  of  the  succeeding 


646 


POETRY. 


ouc.    Having  traced  the  ideas  thus  suggested,  throi 
he  at  last  brings  his  composition  to  a  close  with  a ; 


Harsh  is  the  speech  of  this  gem  of  W 
The  slender  eyebrow'd  fair  one  seekinj 

Torture  has  seized  me ;  I  die  complaii 
For  the  colour  of  the  drifted  snow  of  ^ 

Winter  is  upon  me; — afflicted  and  m< 
Am  I  with  the  keen  edge  of  sorrow  fo 


IV.  &  V. 

These  two  compositions  are  in  a  shorter  mea 
each  line  being  formed  of  four  syllables.  In  t 
describes  his  Gwenn  as  having  the  eyebrows  of  ] 
of  the  Arthurian  Romances,)  and  says  that  she  ha 
from  her  eyes  ;  and  although  she  loves  the  greei 
never  so  happy  as  to  meet  her  there.  He  therefc 
the  denizens  of  those  woods,  to  befriend  him,  i 
to  her.  He  calls  upon  the  blackbird,  and  the  thr 
"bard  of  the  dawn  ;"  the  cuckoo  with  the  cheerf 
his  appeal  by  saying  that  he  is  the  twilight  compa 
and  calls  upon  her  also  to  proceed  upon  the  same 


VI.  TO  THE  MAID  WHO  DECLARED  SH 
NONE  BUT  A  FARMEI 

The  bard  says,  he  has  marked  on  the  border  of 
he  will  construct  a  smnmer  farm  house  of  twisted 
with  the  work  of  the  bees — that  he  will  purchas 
each  day  turn  them  out  upon  the  moujütain — th 
geese,  and  ducks  ;  barley  and  wheat ;  a  garden  a 
comer  full — "God  and  plenty."^ 


^  Tbifl  is  the  conclusion  of  a  Welsh  proverbial  saying  j- 
Duw,  â  digon.^*     Without  God,  without  every  thing  ;  with  < 


POETRY.  647 

VII.    WHAT   THE   BARD  WOULD  DO   FOR  THE  SAKE 
OF  GWENN. 

He  would  traverse  every  glen  and  wood ;  every  meadow,  steep,  and 
hill ;  every  turf,  and  every  step  of  ground  ; — he  would  be  a  farmer,  and 
drive  oxen  ;  would  be  a  farm  steward  ;  would  be  a  soldier — a  horseman 
bold  and  valiant ;  and  all  this  for  the  sake  of  his  second  Olwen,  (a  cha- 
racter of  Arthurian  Romance.) 

Vm.    THE  SONG  OF  THE  SLEEPLESS. 

The  bard  complains  of  anxiety  and  the  sleepless  nights  which  he  en- 
dures for  Gwenn,  who  for  her  beauty  is  proverbial  at  home  and  abroad, 
and  in  the  world  of  bardism.  Again  referring  to  the  sleepless  night  ho 
has  passed,  he  breaks  out, — "And  when  the  dawn  shall  arise,  go  forth, 
thou  lark,  and  show  her  the  burning  of  my  heart,  my  long  wakefulness, 
my  deep  affliction,  and  my  death." 

IX. 

Tnis  song  is  made  in  the  same  strain  with  the  foregoing.  The  bard 
says  ho  knows  a  grove  where  the  blackbird  sings ;  where  once  he  mot 
lior  wlio  is  fairer  than  the  spray  of  the  wave  dancing  over  the  lK)iling  sea, 
and  longs  once  more  to  enjoy  the  society  of  her  who  for  beauty  is  a  se- 
cond Lunet. 

X.    THE  SONG  OF  THE  THRUSH. 

The  following  is  a  strictly  literal  translation  of  this  song  : — 

I  WAfl  on  tho  margin  of  a  plain,  Spocklod  was  his  breast 

Under  a  wide-spreading  tree;  Amongst  the  green  leaves. 

Hearing  the  song  As  upon  branches 

Of  the  wild  birds ;  Of  a  thousand  blossom.*», 

Listening  to  tho  language  On  the  bank  of  a  brook 

Of  the  thrush  cock,  All  heard 

Who  from  the  wood  of  the  valley  With  the  dawn  tho  song. 

Composed  a  verse —  Like  a  silver  bell, 

From  tho  woo<l  of  the  steep  Performing  a  sacrifice, 

Ho  sang  exquisitely.  Until  tho  hour  of  forenoon. 


648 


POETRY. 


Upon  the  green  altar, 

Ministering  bardism. 

From  the  branches  of  the  hazel 

Of  green  broad  leaves, 

He  sings  an  ode 

To  God  the  Creator; 

With  a  carol  of  love 

From  the  green  glade, 

To  all  in  the  hollow 

Of  the  glen,  who  love  him  ; 

Balm  of  the  heart 

To  those  who  love. 

I  had  from  his  beak 

The  voice  of  inspiration, 

A  song  of  metres 

That  gratified  me ; 

Glad  was  I  made 

By  his  minstrelsy. 


Then  respectfully 
Uttered  I  an  address 
From  the  stream  of  the  valley. 
To  the  bird. 
I  requested  urgently    . 
His  undertaking  a  message 
To  the  fair  one 

Where  dwells  my  affection. — 
Gt)ne  is  the  bard  of  the  leaves 
From  the  small  twigs, 
To  the  second  Lunet, 
The  sun  of  the  maidens, 
To  the  streams  of  the  plain. 
St.  Mary  prosper  him  ! 
To  bring  to  me. 
Under  the  green  woods. 
The  hue  of  the  snow  of  one  nish 
Without  delay. 


XL 


This  is  a  song  of  lamentation  on  account  of  Gwenn's  obduracy,  whoi 
he  describes,  in  his  usual  strain,  as  of  the  growth  of  Essyllt,  and  with 
foot  of  the  slender  width  of  Olwen's.  (Wherever  Olwen  trod,  three  whit 
trefoils  sprang  up.)  He  says  that  he  is  fettered  in  wretchedness,  an 
bids  farewell  to  the  world,  as  there  is  nothing  left  for  him  but  death. 


XII.   TO  DISPATCH  THE  SEA-MEW  AS  HIS  MESSENGER. 

"  Fair  sea-mew,  on  the  breast  of  the  wave,  amidst  the  foam  of  ih 
curling  ocean,  beauteous  queen  of  the  Severn  Sea,  with  thy  kingdom  oi 
the  nine  waves  of  the  deep,^  feasting  on  thy  banquet  of  fish  ;  active  ai 
thou,  fair  one,  on  the  wing ;  and  therefore  do  I  make  my  request  to  the< 
Bear  for  me  the  song  of  woe  to  the  slender-grown  maid,  &c." — The  sol 
stance  of  this  song  is,  as  usual,  the  foreboding  of  the  bard's  death  throng 
a  broken  heart. 


1  In  Welsh  poetry,  allusion  is  often  made  to  the  ninth  wave,  which  wis  beHered  to  I 
larger  than  the  others. 


POETRY.  649 


XIIL   THE  BARD  SENDS  GWENN  TO  ROME,  TO  DO  PENANCE 
FOR  CAUSING  HIS  DEATH. 


After  signifying  that  she  has  been  the  cause  of  his  death,  he  says : — 
"  Take  thoa  thy  neat  ashen  staff,  and  proceed  to  Rome ;  and  the  Pope 
will  demand  of  thee,  *What  wickedness  has  brought  thee  here  Î  What 
hast  thou  done  ?  If  thou  wilt  enjoy  heaven,  thou  must  confess.'  Then 
will  the  disheartened  fair  one  acknowledge  herself  guilty  of  the  death  of 
one  who  loved  her ;  that  she  broke  the  heart  of  a  youth  of  her  own 
country,  who  died  for  her  love  ;  and  that  his  head  is  now  under  the  turf. 
Then  will  the  fair  one  be  clothed  in  horse  hair,  thus  to  perform  penance 
for  the  rest  of  her  life,  for  wilfully  slaying  the  youth  who  loved  her. 
And  may  St  Mary  forgive  her  as  I  do. — My  beauteous  maid,  may  heaven 
be  to  thy  soul." 


XIV.   A  SONG  TO  THE  SUMMER. 

This  song,  which  contains  the  bard's  usual  silvan  descriptions,  is  re- 
markable for  the  chorus  at  the  end  of  each  verse,  which  is  precisely  of 
the  same  character  with  the  common  "  tol  de  rol  lol"  of  the  present  day; 
with  the  exception  that  the  bard  has  contrived  to  give  a  meaning  to  the 
sounds  so  employed, — "  Taro  tant  alaw,  «fee."  in  the  first  lino  ;  which  sig- 
nifies,— "  Strike  the  string  of  melody  by  the  brook  of  the  rock  of  the  nine 
hills."    The  meaning  of  the  second  line  is  not  so  obvious. 


XV.   THE  SONG  OF  THE  BOWER. 

The  bard  says  that  he  has  constructed  in  the  solitary  wood  a  bower  of 
green  branches,  where  the  nightingale  is  heard ;  to  which  he  invites 
Gwenn,  and  where  on  every  spray  overhead  the  birds  shall  chant  odes 
in  praise  of  her. 

XVI.   A  SONG  IN  PRAISE  OF  GWENN. 


The  bard  complains  that  another  bard,  but  a  clumsy  constructor  of 
verse,  had  been  with  a  wooden  hatchet  hewing  out  a  poem  to  Gwenllian, 
but  without  a  single  word  in  it  bearing  the  mark  of  inspiration. — "Pity 
that  any  one  so  unskilful  should,  under  the  name  of  a  poet,  commit  such 
mockery  of  love  and  minstrelsy."— So  the  bard  (the  author)  declares  that 

4o 


650  POETRY. 

he  himself  will  engage  in  the  undertaking  ;  and  accordingly  ho  proceeds 
in  his  own  strain  to  extol  her  beauty;  and  concludes  with  repeating  the 
assurances  of  his  speedy  death  unless  she  accepts  him. 


XVII.   A  SONO  TO  THE  WIND. 

The  bard  declares  his  love  to  Gwenn  ;  and  having  complained  of  her 
neglect  of  him,  he  addresses  the  "wind,  the  mighty  gale  of  the  sky,  which 
rushes  forth  in  power  over  wood  and  dale,  widely  exciting  the  elevated  wave, 
and  throwing  it  up  to  the  heavens  ;  and  in  the  fury  of  its  onset  trampling 
on  forests,  mountains,  and  plains  with  the  strength  of  a  dragon,  and  none 
to  resist  its  force  ;"  and  he  requests  it  to  be  his  messenger  to  carry  his 
complaint  to  Gwenn,  that  second  Indeg,  and  equal  to  Esyllt 


XVIII.    A  SONG  OF  THE  JEALOUS. 

A  DESCRIPTION  of  a  pleasant  meeting  suddenly  broken  up  through  the 
intervention  of  jealousy. 

XIX.    THE  SONG  OF  THE  MATCHLESS, 

The  bard  says  there  are  three  characters  that  have  not  their  like ;  the 
grumbler,  the  lover,  and  the  fop  ;  ana  adds  that  he  himself,  for  the  love 
of  Gwenn,  combines  in  his  own  person  the  tliree  characters  ;  but  all  to 
no  purpose ;  as  she  continues  happy  in  her  high  statiou,  whilst  he,  her 
bard,  is  going  to  the  grave. 

XX.   A  SONG  TO  THE  ONE  FOR  WHOM  HE  IS  DYING  OF  LOVE. 

This  song  is  curious  as  exhibiting  a  particular  style  of  burden,  which 
consists  in  the  repetition  of  the  last  word  of  each  stanza,  preceded  by 
"Gwae  fi," — Alas!  Another  metrical  particularity  of  this  song,  but 
which  is  rather  conmion  in  Welsh  poetry,  consists  in  the  final  word 
of  each  stanza  becoming  also  the  initial  one  of  the  next 

Of  the  colours  of  the  blossoms— of  the  gentle  eyebrows. 
Gentle  her  manner  in  social  amusement, 
Sparkling  in  light  amidst  her  jewels. 

Alas  the  jewels, 

Alas  the  jewels. 


POETRY.  651 

Jewels  were  becoming  my  beauteous  fair  cue ; 
A  village  was  not  gained  by  turning  the  sheep; 
And  Gwenn  will  not  cease  to  steal  away  my  soul. 

Alas  my  soul, 

Alas  my  soul. 

My  soul  is  the  maid  on  the  margin  of  the  glade, 
And  for  her  I  am  dying  of  affection, 
And  I  am  thus  full  of  love  in  greeting  her. 

Alas  the  greeting, 

Alas  the  greeting. 

The  greeting  of  Gwenddydd  by  her  minstrel, 
Greeting  her  daily  with  a  new  song. 
And  more  kind  will  she  not  be  when  I  come  again  on  the 
morrow. 

Alas  to-morrow, 
Alas  to-morrow,  &o. 

Rhys  Goch  ap  Bhiccert  of  Tir  larll. 


THE  SAYINGS  OP  THB  WISE. 

1  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ciwg, 
The  truly  wise  bard  of  Gwy nhylwg ! 
The  owner  of  discretion  is  far  sighted, 

2  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gadeiriaith, 
A  bard  of  highly  inspired  speech  ? 

The  first  step  is  half  the  journey. 

3  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cynrain, 
The  chief  counsellor  of  the  Island  of  Britain  i 
Better  to  keep  than  to  pursue. 

4  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  old  Idloes, 
A  mild  man  of  respected  life ! 

The  best  quality  is  that  of  maintaining  morals. 

6  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Meigant, 
At  parting  from  his  foes  ; 
The  children  of  the  wicked  are  evil  spoken  of. 

6  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cattwg 

The  Wise,  the  son  of  Gwynlly w  of  Essyllwg  J 
Let  the  heart  be  where  the  appearance  is. 


652  POETRY. 

7  Has  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cyngar, 
To  those  who  derided  him  ? 

Longer  endures  anger  than  sorrow. 

8  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gildas 

Of  the  CK)lden  Grove,  a  man  of  great  dignity  ? 
Rome  will  not  confer  prosperity  upon  the  vile. 

9  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Stephen, 
The  bard  of  Teilaw,  of  quick  answer ! 
Man  desires,  God  confers. 

10  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Madoc, 
Son  of  Idwal,  the  amiable  poet! 
There  is  no  success  to  the  coward. 

11  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cynllwg, 
The  venerable  bard  of  wide  observation  ? 

He  has  received  good  who  has  not  received  evil. 

12  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  ancient  time. 
Of  worthy  clearest  utterance  ? 

The  fool  will  laugh  when  drowning. 

13  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  St.  Cynog, 
Chief  of  the  land  of  Brecknock? 

The  one  half  of  learning  is  [already]  in  the  head. 

14  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  lUtyd, 
The  studious  golden-chained  knight! 
Whoso  does  evil,  evil  betide  him. 

15  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  Car  Cu, 
After  defeating  the  army! 

It  is  no  disgrace  to  amend. 

16  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Urien, — 
And  who  has  gainsaid  it ! 

God  can  make  the  afflicted  joyful. 

17  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Heinin 
The  Bard,  of  the  choir  of  Llanveithin ! 
The  brave  will  not  be  cruel. 

18  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ceinddar 
To  the  inhospitable ! 

Christ  loves  not  those  who  mocked  him. 


POETRY.  653 

19  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cjnvarch, 
The  bold  and  active  warrior  ? 

Whoso  respects  thee  not,  respect  not  him. 

20  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cadgyfro 
The  Aged,  whilst  reading  the  book  of  Cato  Ì 
He  is  not  a  good  man  who  is  not  a  Welshman. 

21  Has  thou  heard  the  saying  of  St.  David, 
The  venerable  man  of  extended  honour  Ì 
The  best  usage  is  goodness. 

22  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ystudvach, 
Whilst  carousing  with  his  bards  ? 

A  cheerful  countenance,  a  sound  heart. 

23  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Kibddar, 
To  those  he  saw  brutish! 

It  avails  not  to  whisper  to  the  deaf. 

24  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Bedwini, 
Who  was  a  Bishop,  good  and  void  of  vanity  Î 
Consider  thy  word  before  uttering  it. 

25  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  Gwtta 
Cyvarwydd,  by  gathering  fire- wood  ? 
The  wicked  will  not  perceive  his  good. 

26  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Dwynwen 

The  Saint,  the  fair  daughter  of  Brychan  the  Aged? 
None  so  amiable  as  the  cheerful. 

27  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Huail, 
The  son  of  Caw,  of  the  discreet  argument  Î 
Often  will  the  curse  drop  from  the  bosom. 

28  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cawrdaf, 
Son  of  Caradawc  Vreichvras,  the  chieftain  Î 
The  promoter  of  work  is  the  cautious  hand. 

29  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  Wise  Man, 
Counselling  the  servant  of  another  ? 

Who  does  mischief,  let  him  expect  its  fellow. 

30  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Lleynawg, 
The  honoured  and  exalted  warrior  Ì 
Better  a  grave  than  a  needy  life. 


654 


POETRY. 


31  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Oyna 
Wledig,  a  Saint  of  good  disposition 
Every  rash  person  injures  his  portic 

32  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gwrj 
Counselling  on  the  Sunday  Î 

The  lucky  needs  only  to  be  bom. 

33  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Oync 
When  avoiding  the  drunken! 
Good  ale  is  the  key  of  the  heart. 

34  Hast. thou  heard  the  saying  of  Hyh 
Who  was  a  wise  and  experienced  sa^ 
The  favour  of  a  lord  is  no  inheritan 

35  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Hu  . 
Whilst  conversing  with  his  friend  ? 
Happy  is  he  who  sees  those  who  lo^ 

36  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Bhe| 
Who  was  faithful,  and  upright  in  hi 
Who  does  evil,  let  him  beware. 

37  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  i 
Whilst  conversing  with  the  colour  < 
Beauty  lasts  but  an  hour. 

38  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ivor 
Hael,  of  the  open  hall-portals? 
Woe  to  the  aged  who  shall  lose  his 

39  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  I 
Let  every  one  be  cheerful  in  his  hoi 
The  rueful  visage,  ill  betide  it. 

40  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  L\j\ 
That  bold  and  intrepid  old  man  Î 
Though  not  intimate,  yet  oflFer  gree 

41  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Din| 
When  rebuking  the  son  of  a  wicked 
Soon  will  the  duck's  son  learn  to  S¥ 

42  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Mor 
Who  was  one  of  the  three  most  gen 
Of  evils,  best  is  the  smallest. 


POETRV.  655 

43  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Dynolwas, 
The  best  man  in  society  Ì 

The  orderly  will  long  be  loved. 

44  Hast  thoa  heard  the  saying  of  Avaon, 
Son  of  Taliesin  of  recording  verse  Ì 

The  cheek  will  not  conceal  the  anguish  of  the  heart. 

45  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Morgan 
Mwynvawr,  of  gentle  nature! 

He  is  not  wise  who  does  not  conceal  his  intentions. 

46  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  nurse, 
Counselling  her  foster  son  Î 

Let  the  skilful  conceal  his  purpose. 

47  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ysgavnell, 
Son  of  Dysgyvundawd  Gadgymmell  ? 

The  poor  will  not  receive  presents  from  a  distance. 

48  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Caw  Ì 
Though  it  easy  to  un-freeze  frost, 

It  is  not  easy  to  un-sort  sort. 

49  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ysperir, 
While  conversing  with  Menw  Hir  ? 
The  true  friend  is  seen  in  adversity. 

50  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ivan, 
Brother  in  the  Faith  to  Cattwg  of  Llancarvan ! 
The  grain  of  sand  has  his  portion  of  the  beach. 

51  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Heledd, 

The  daughter  of  Cyndrwyn,  of  extensive  wealth  ? 
Prosperity  cannot  come  of  pride. 

52  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Eleri, 
Where  there  was  not  a  bestowing  hand ! 
It  is  not  almsgiving  that  causes  poverty. 

53  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  St.  Cewydd, 
To  his  numerous  relatives  ? 

There  is  no  true  friend  but  the  Almighty. 

54  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Endigant, 
The  Bard,  where  his  audience  was  illustrious  Î 
Bad  words  will  not  be  recalled. 


656 


POETRY. 


55  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cad^ 
The  Little,  who  overcame  giants  ? 
There  is  no  sickness  but  sloth. 

56  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Haea 
Vradawg,  the  warrior  of  kings  ? 
Stronger  is  force  than  justica  where 

57  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Bled< 
When  speaking  to  his  enemy ! 
Truth  is  no  truth  without  following 

58  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Eildc 
The  amiable  and  magnanimous  knig 
Long  will  a  bitter  bit  be  chewed. 

59  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cara^ 
The  exalted  son  of  the  noble  Bran  Ì 
Robbery  long  continued  will  come  t( 

60  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cenj 
Son  of  Aneurin,  the  skilful  Bard  Ì 
None  is  void  of  care  but  the  religiou 

61  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Folh 
When  doing  penance  ? 
Frequent  after  running  comes  stand 

62  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Hug^ 
When  conselling  against  oflFence  Î 
Often  after  waste  comes  distress. 

63  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  G^era 
Son  of  Erbin,  the  just  and  experiem 
Short  lived  is  the  hated  of  the  Saim 

64  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Andi 
Who  suffered  on  the  extended  cross 
Whoso  distributed  to  religion  obtaii 

65  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Hyw 
Who  was  possessed  of  oflSce  ? 
Frequent  after  excess  comes  offence 

66  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Padj 
The  upright  and  powerful  preacher  Í 
What  man  does,  God  will  judge. 


POETRY.  657 

67  Hast  thoa  heard  the  saying  of  Bhydderch, 
The  third  generous  one,  throned  and  amiable ! 
Frequent  is  seen  extreme  hatred  after  extreme  love. 

68  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Mygotwas, 
Of  great  knowledge  in  bardism ! 

Ill  will  the  devil  protect  his  servant. 

69  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Anarawd, 
The  wise  and  wealthy  prince  ? 

With  the  impatient,  patience  is  needful. 

70  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Pengwlad, 
Whilst  warning  all  lawlessness  ! 

It  is  easier  to  bum  than  to  build  a  house. 

71  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Mabon, 
Whilst  giving  instruction  to  his  sons  ? 
Except  God  there  is  no  searcher  of  the  heart. 

72  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Sandde 
Bryd  Angel,  in  time  of  separation ! 
There  is  nothing  so  strong  as  combination. 

73  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Crallo, 
When  there  was  nothing  stirring  Ì 

It  is  easy  to  make  the  wry-mouthed  weep. 

74  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Marthin, 
The  exalted  saint,  to  the  public  Ì 
Except  God  there  is  no  sovereign. 

75  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Vortimer 
The  Blessed,  of  wise  import  ? 

A  string  too  tight  is  easily  broken. 

76  Has  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gwrhir, 

The  servant  of  Teilaw,  a  Bard  of  truthful  language! 
Whoso  deceives  shall  be  deceived. 

77  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Teilaw, 
While  doing  penance  ? 

It  is  not  wise  to  contend  with  God. 

78  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Bhioged, 
After  obtaining  tribute  Ì 

God  will  not  sleep  when  he  will  give  deliverance. 
4p 


658 


POETRY. 


79  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Dyv 
The  Martyr,  in  the  day  of  slaughte 
Grod  is  superior  to  ill  foreboding. 

80  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  St.  1 
One  come  of  the  race  of  Israel ! 
There  is  no  madness  like  extreme  a 

81  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gwj 
In  mutual  upbraiding  Ì 

It  avails  not  to  reason  with  a  madn 

82  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Artl 
The  Emperor,  the  mighty  sovereigi 
There  is  no  devastation  Uke  a  decei 

83  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Brai 
The  Blessed,  to  the  renowned  ? 
There  is  none  good  save  God  alone 

84  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  An{ 
Son  of  Caw,  the  celebrated  warrior 
The  heart  will  break  with  grief. 

85  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  St. 
Of  the  uplands  of  Morganwg ! 
No  good  will  come  of  wantonness. 

86  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Per 
When  refusing  the  yellow  mead ! 
There  is  no  monstrosity  like  the  d 

87  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  St. 
Of  the  land  of  Glamorgan  Ì 
Possession  of  reason  is  possession  < 

88  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the 
When  giving  social  advice  ? 
Better  the  dog^s  love  than  his  hate 

89  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Rh 
Whilst  instructing  the  liberal  ? 
Where  there  is  no  learning  there 

90  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ch« 
The  observer,  of  accurate  sight? 
The  mighty  God  will  determine  ei 


POETRY.  659 

91  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Taliesin, 
While  conversing  with  Merlin  ? 

Excessive  laughter  is  customary  with  the  fool. 

92  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Oolifer 
Gh)sgorddvawr,  of  the  valiant  host! 

Every  truth  is  hateful  where  there  is  no  love. 

93  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Beuno, 
To  all  who  repaired  to  him! 

From  death  it  avails  not  to  flee. 

94  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Bergam 
Of  Maelor,  to  his  stepmother! 

Slow  is  the  step  of  her  of  the  dainty  morsel. 

95  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Dirynig, 
The  wise  and  distinguished  warrior! 
God  will  provide  good  for  the  lonely. 

96  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Mathavar, 
When  giving  instruction  to  a  kinsman^s  son ! 
Long  will  the  dumb  remain  at  the  gate  of  the  deaf. 

97  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Fagan, 
After  showing  his  declaration ! 

Where  God  is  silent,  it  is  not  wise  to  speak. 

98  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  Bard  of  Gwm  Llwch, 
In  his  old  age  and  tranquillity ! 

The  pious  loves  giving  of  praise. 

99  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Olodri, 
After  oppression  and  perplexity  ! 
The  pious  loves  giving  praise. 

100  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Howel  the  bent, 
To  his  namesake  Howel  the  bare ! 

When  God  strikes,  he  strikes  heavy. 

101  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Eldad, 
When  counselling  his  countrymen! 
To  the  pious,  God  gives  grace. 

102  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gwgan, 
After  escaping  from  the  turmoil  Î 
Great  promise  and  a  small  gift. 


660 


POETRY. 


103  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ga 
Bang  of  Wales  supreme  ! 

The  best  [^22]  is  that  of  the  pic 

104  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  M 
Wilst  contending  with  his  enemy 
The  best  candle  to  man  is  reason. 

105  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cj 
An  eminent  man,  of  fruitful  imag 
Let  there  be,  in  speaking,  ready  < 

106  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  H< 
A  chieftain  powerful  in  war  ? 
Where  love  exists,  it  will  not  be 

1 07  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ti 
To  Arthur  of  the  splintered  lance 
Except  God  there  is  none  strong. 

108  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  St 
After  losing  the  whole ! 

God  will  not  portion  out  unjustly 

109  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Ca 
Calchvynydd,  of  vast  meditation  ? 
The  best  woman  is  the  one  withoi 

110  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  th< 
Where  two  magpies  were  chatter! 
Every  one  will  seek  his  like. 

111  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Id 
An  aged  grey-headed  man  leaning 
Argue  not  with  the  imwise. 

112  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  th 
Counselling  against  tumult  Ì 
Argue  not  with  the  uninstructed. 

113  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying,  whic 
In  it  a  word  of  folly  ? 

There  is  no  beauty  but  in  uniforn 

114  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  betwi 
Sitting  in  their  chimney  comers ! 
The  pious  will  not  agree  with  dis] 

1  A  play  upon  the  word  dtffy  with  an  allusioi] 
ploughman,  when  at  his  work. 


POETRY.  661 

115  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Oyttjn, 

Who  knew  not  which  side  of  the  loaf  the  butter  was ! 
It  is  either  a  fox,  or  a  bush  of  fern. 

116  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  an  old  Author, 
Who  explored  all  the  recesses  of  nature  Ì 

A  sweet  apple  will  not  be  got  from  a  sour  tree. 

117  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  aged  man, 
To  a  proud  and  reprobate  lord  ? 

Gk>d  will  limit  the  intention  of  man. 

118  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  old  Garadoc, 
When  he  lost  half  a  penny  Ì 

The  full  knows  not  the  grief  of  the  needy. 

119  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  old  Friar, 
Concerning  the  ready  arrangement  of  art ! 
There  is  no  summing  up  like  explanation. 

120  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  wise  man. 
Arguing  concerning  wealth  Î 

What  the  fool  acquires  will  not  prosper. 

121  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Matholwch, 
Who  loved  all  tranquillity  Ì 

Peace  is  a  feast  to  every  pious  man. 

122  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  one  Mwynwas, 
Who  was  a  king  of  great  dignity  Î 

Carnage  is  a  feast  to  the  raven. 

123  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  hoary-headed  man. 
To  the  associates  of  his  hearth ! 

The  food  of  every  pious  man  is  com. 

124  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Mevonnydd, 
A  Bard  of  book-loving  disposition ! 
Except  God  there  is  no  chief  ruler. 

125  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Nonn! 
The  mother  of  St.  David  was  she. — 
There  is  no  madness  like  contention. 

126  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Pryderi, 
The  wisest  person  in  coimselling! 
There  is  no  wisdom  like  silence. 


662  POETRY. 

127  Hast  thoa  heard  the  saying  of  Maelog, 
The  knight  of  far-extending  sight  t 

The  good  will  not  make  friendship  with  the  wicked  Ì 

128  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Peredur, 
Sovereign  of  the  Island  of  Britain  Ì 
Harder  is  the  brave  than  a  blade  of  steel. 

129  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Lleuddad, 
For  the  instruction  of  a  peevish  man  ! 
Unloved  is  every  unamiable  person. 

130  Hast  then  heard  the  saying  of  Dysgyvundawd, 
Who  was  chief  of  his  host  Ì 

The  best  possession  is  the  present. 

131  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gadell, 
The  prince  whose  better  never  was  fonnd  i 
Good  will  not  come  of  much  deceit. 

132  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Anarawd, 
The  king  of  Gwynedd,  an  abundant  land! 

The  unwise  will  not  watch  his  swath  of  com.  » 

133  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Mervyn! — 
King  of  Powys  was  he— 

Without  beginning  we  cannot  finish. 

134  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gwrgan, 
The  renowned  king  of  Morganwg ! 

God  is  on  the  side  of  every  merciful  person. 

135  Has  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Elystan 
Glodrydd,  the  wisest  in  design  ? 
Better  too  stem  than  too  helpless. 

136  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Elvyw, 
A  man  wise  without  a  fellow ! 

Let  every  sort  go  to  where  it  belongs. 

137  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  poor  old  man, 
When  he  could  not  get  alms  ! 

Whoso  has  meal  shall  have  meal. 

138  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  St.  Oybi, 
Of  Anglesey,  to  the  son  of  Gwrgi? 
There  is  no  misfortune  like  wickedness. 


POETRY.  663 

139  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  just  old  man, 
A  chief  teacher  of  knowledge  ! 

Urgent  is  the  truth  for  the  light. 

140  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  truth-telling  man, 
The  possessor  of  accurate  knowledge? 

The  wise  will  not  associate  with  the  wicked. 

141  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  old  Uriad 
The  Bishop,  the  wisest  man  in  his  country ! 
It  is  easy  to  reconcile  where  there  is  love. 

142  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  Son  of  Mervryn. 
In  discoursing  with  his  sister  in  Coed  y  Olyn  Î 
Confide  not  in  thine  enemy. 

143  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  poor  hoary  hermit. 
Where  there  was  no  hand  stretched  out ! 

Every  ditch  is  a  shelter  to  the  beggar. 

144  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  experienced  man, 
Who  had  seen  many  events ! 

Better  a  handicraft  than  the  favour  of  a  lord. 

145  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Divwg, 
The  aged  bard  of  Morgan  Morganwg! 
Whoso  will  not  seek  good,  let  him  await  evil. 

146  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Einion  Sais, 
Greatly  disirous  of  wisdom  ? 

He  is  a  fool  who  quarrels  with  his  own  garment. 

147  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  wise  man. 
To  one  who  lost  his  property  ? 

Wealth  will  not  prosper  with  the  fool. 

148  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Davydd 
Brophwyd,  to  the  irreligious  man  Î 
Seek  after  Gt>d  whilst  thou  hast  a  day. 

149  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gwiawn 
Bach,  teaching  a  just  law ! 

Every  claim  is  right  where  there  is  justice. 

150  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  old  Poet, 
Who  in  his  day  was  a  teacher ! 

The  produce  of  falsehood  is  shame. 


664 


POETRY. 


151  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gw; 
When  he  loved  not  long  delay  Î 
Let  the  longest  tamer  go  furthest 

152  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the 
To  one  who  would  not  act  with  dia 
What  is  acquired  through  fraud  w 

153  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the 
Who  had  seen  the  state  of  nations 
Scarcely  is  there,  in  a  thousand,  oi 

154  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the 
Who  knew  the  befalling  of  destiny 
Every  one  longs  for  the  object  of  h 

155  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Gad 
Who  in  every  answer  was  of  brief 
The  light  load  brings  the  hay. 

156  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  beneat 
Of  the  wise  old  man,  whose  equal  ^ 
God  guards  every  pious  one. 

157  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the 
After  subduing  every  longing! 
The  good  God  will  not  undo  his  w< 

158  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Cer 
A  wise  and  select  king? 

Every  one  has  his  foot  on  the  fallei 

159  Has  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  i 
Revolving  his  meditations  Î 
Above  all  remember  death. 

160  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  Job] 
The  Apostle,  of  clear  declaration  Ì 
Have  God'^s  grace,  and  have  all  thi; 

And  thus  terminate  eight  score  of  th< 
and  wise  is  the  man  who  understands  them 


V 


J 


POETRY.  665 


HERE  ARE  OTHER  SAYINGS  OF  THE  WISE,  TO  THE  WISE 
WHO  MAY  UNDERSTAND  THEM. 

1  Ha8t  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  white  crow, 
Predicting  fate? 

A  clean  hand,  safe  its  owner. 

2  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  nightingale. 
In  the  woods  in  the  summer  night  ? 

Often  over  the  head  of  the  godly  is  seen  a  shelter. 

3  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  torn  tit, 
Playing  with  the  birds  ? 

Death  comes  in  every  shape. 

4  Hast  thou  heard  the  little  saying  of  the  wren. 
In  the  nest  where  she  lived? 

Let  every  sort  go  where  it  belongs. 

5  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  hawk, 
Conversing  with  the  kite? 

The  friend  of  the  wolf  is  the  slothful  shepherd. 

6  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  owl. 
In  the  wood  by  herself? 

Happy  is  he  who  obtains  his  object. 

7  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  bird. 
From  the  midst  of  the  holly  bush  ? 
Good  will  not  come  of  long  intending. 

8  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  ant. 
In  the  winter,  out  of  its  mound  ! 
Summer  sleep,  winter  famine. 

9  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  wood-pigeon, 
In  the  woods,  instead  of  complaining  ? 

God  portions  out  man'*s  provision. 

10  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  blackbird. 
Hiding  from  the  hawk  ? 

There  is  but  a  season  for  the  proud. 

1 1  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  magpie, 
Where  there  was  a  nest  to  shelter  her  î 
Labour  is  better  than  idleness. 

4q 


666  POETRY. 

12  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  grouse, 
To  the  kite  in  the  top  of  the  oak  ? 

The  wise  and  the  vicious  will  not  associate. 

13  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  toad, 
Whilst  caressing  its  baby? 

Every  sort  loves  its  own  likeness. 

14  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  cat, 
Whilst  searching  for  the  mice? 
Every  kind  seeks  its  fellow. 

15  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  lion, 
Whilst  casting  his  coat? 

There  are  some  brave  in  every  country. 

16  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  chaffinch. 
In  the  thicket  avoiding  pursuit  ? 

Bad  is  sin  of  long  following. 

1 7  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  puppy. 
When  the  time  of  accusation  came? 

There  is  no  deceit  like  the  flattery  of  a  maid. 

1 8  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  fish, 
Whilst  moving  amongst  the  reeds? 
Stronger  is  nature  than  learning. 

19  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  goose. 
After  seeing  every  occurrence? 

The  idle  will  not  seek  his  duty. 

20  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  crow, 
On  the  highest  tree  in  the  orchard  ? 
Better  too  stem  than  too  helpless. 

21  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  jay. 
Screaming  about  the  divulging  of  secrets  ? 
Make  not  thy  wife  thy  confidante. 

22  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  kite. 
To  the  insolent  rapacious  man  ! 
Quick  comes  the  doom  of  the  rash. 

23  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  thrush. 
To  him  who  walked  the  wilderness  ? 
Make  not  thy  enemy  thy  fellow-traveller. 


POETRY.  667 

24  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  sow, 
Wallowing  in  the  mud  and  mire ! 
The  monstrous  love  monstrosity. 

25  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  dog. 
In  the  ditch,  having  become  lame ! 

Let  judgment  be  understood,  before  hanging. 

26  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  eagle, 
After  traversing  every  land  ? 
Consideration  will  not  hinder  any  work. 

27  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  linnet, 
Feeding  on  the  bogberries  ? 

Wait  for  evil,  it  will  come. 

28  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  lark. 
In  the  sky  at  the  dawn  of  day ! 

Evil  will  not  harm  the  pious. 

29  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  sea-mew. 
Conversing  with  her  sister? 

He  who  complains  too  much  complains  not  very  much. 

30  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  golden-crested  wren. 
Who  sang  amidst  the  woods  of  the  valley ! 

He  dishonours  God  who  injures  man. 

31  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  cuckoo, 
Which  she  uttered  on  a  dewy  morning  ! 
Wilful  is  every  ill-bred  person. 

32  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  red-breast, 
Where  he  had  been  from  his  infancy  ? 
Seek  not  the  dishonest  man  at  home. 

33  Hast  thou  heard  the  saying  of  the  pig, 
Recoiling  from  dirty  actions  Ì 

There  is  none  so  hateful  as  the  drunkard. 

34  Hast  thou  heard  my  own  saying. 
After  all  sayings  have  been  rehearsed  Î 
There  is  no  wisdom  like  choosing  the  best. 

And  thus  ends  this  portion  of  the  Sayings  of  the  Wise ;  and 
happy  is  the  man  who  is  as  wise  as  the  Pig. 


668 


POETRY. 


VERSES. 

The  best  work  of  any  person  is  to  keep  h 
The  best  act  of  a  good  son  is  respect  to  h 
The  best  act  of  any  damsel  is  to  conside 

addressed. 

The  best  act  of  any  man  is  to  consider  th 
The  best  act  of  any  wife  is  cleanliness  in 
The  best  act  of  any  day  is  to  be  sponsor 
The  best  act  of  all  is  the  happy  pursuit  o 
The  best  act  of  a  Bard  is  a  beautiful  eulo 
The  best  act  of  a  lord  is  to  discharge  his 
The  bets  act  of  the  wise  is  to  grow  rich  í 
The  best  act  of  every  sage  is  to  show  h 

morals. 

The  best  act  of  every  understanding  pe] 

heart  and  know  it. 

And  thus  it  ends.     Out  of  Esaia  '. 


THE  STANZAS  OF  THE  ACHl 
Composed  by  the  Azure  Bard  of 

1  The  achievement  of  Menw  ap  Teirgwae 
Was  the  forming  of  a  vehicle  of  memory 
And  along  with  record,  interpretation. 

2  The  achievement  of  Einigan  Gawr,^  the 
Was  the  forming  of  faultless  vocal  lette 
And  a  regular  system  for  poetic  genius. 

1  That  isy  Menw  the  son  of  the  Three  Shouti 
having  heard  the  three  voices  uttered  by  the  Divii 
own  name,  at  which  all  creation  started  into  existe 

2  He  is  said  to  have  seen  three  rays  of  light,  hav 
and  science ;  and  he  took  three  rods  of  mountai 
them  all  that  he  had  seen  on  the  rays  of  light,  ^ 
deified,  whereas  they  only  bore  upon  them  the  na] 
Einigan,  that  he  broke  the  rods,  and  afterwards 


V. 


POETRY.  669 

3  The  achievement  of  Tudain  Tad  Awon/ 
Of  his  vast  and  wise  meditation, 

Was  the  securing  of  memory  by  eloquent  verse. 

4  The  achievement  of  Bhuvawn,  was  the  establishing  for  record, 
And  verse,  and  the  security  of  memorial ; 

The  principles  of  justice  upon  the  law  of  the  land. 

5  The  achievement  of  Gwron,  was  the  devising  of  ornament, 
And  polished  order,  for  poetic  compositions  ; 

And  the  exalting  of  excelling  energy. 

6  The  achievement  of  Hu  Gadam,  was  forming  social  order 
For  the  Cymry  of  the  Island  of  Britain, 

For  their  removal  from  Defrobannau.^ 

7  The  achievement  of  Prydain,  the  son  of  Aedd  Mawr, 
Was  the  pacification  of  the  co-inhabitants  of  the  land ; — 
Justice,  imder  a  chief  ruler  of  the  confederate  tribes. 

8  The  achievement  of  Arthen,  the  son  of  Arth  the  Aged, 
Against  hostile  assault  and  injury,  was 

The  blade  for  the  arrayed  army  in  the  battle  field. 

9  The  achievement  of  Dyvnwal  Moelmud'  the  ardent. 
Against  disorder  and  rash  confusion,  was 

The  establishing  of  laws  and  mutually-protecting  ordinances. 


afterwards,  Menw  ap  Teirgwaedd  (or  Menw  the  son  of  the  Three  Shouts) 
saw  growing  out  of  Einigan's  mouth  three  rods,  having  on  them  all  know- 
ledge and  science.  And  he  took  the  rods,  and  learned  and  taught  all  they 
contained  except  the  name  of  God,  which  was  kept  secret,  and  is  still  a  secret 
amongst  the  Bards.  The  three  rays  of  light,  and  their  representatives  the 
three  rods,  constitute  the  hardic  symbol  /|\ ;  and  it  is  a  remarkable  fact,  that 
these  three  lines  contain  the  elements  of  the  Bardic  Alphabet,  every  cha- 
racter of  which  is  formed  of  one  or  more  of  these  lines.  They  are  also  the 
only  lines  that  can  be  cut  on  tlie  wooden  billets  of  the  Coelbren  without 
splbitering,  as  they  have  no  horizontal  line  to  run  with  the  grain  of  the 
wood.    See  "Coelbren  y  Beirdd." 

1  Tydain,  the  father  of  poetic  inspiration.  The  place  of  his  sepulture  is 
said  to  be  at  the  foot  of  Bron  Aren.  See  "  Memorials  of  the  Graves  of  the 
Warriors." 

'  Probably  Taprobane,  the  Island  of  Ceylon,  b  meant;  celebrated  as  hav- 
ing been  the  residence  of  Adam. 

'  The  ancient  British  legislator,  from  whose  laws  Uowel  Dda  framed 
his  code. 


670  POETRY. 

10  The  achievement  of  Fermael,  the  son  of  Fer  Gwyllt, 
Was  the  forging  of  shears^  for  straw. 

The  vigorous  growth  of  the  split-up  ploughland. 

11  The  achievement  of  CoU,  the  son  of  Collvrewi, 
Against  aggression  and  confusion, 

Was  the  sowing  of  com  by  joint  ploughing. 

12  The  achievement  of  Beli  Mawr,  the  sovereign. 
The  son  of  Mynogan,  an  exalted  personage. 

Was  the  establishing  of  horsemen,  and  the  regulations  of  ca- 
valry. 

13  The  achievement  of  Greidiol,  the  fleet-possessing. 
The  mighty  chief  of  the  foaming  sea. 

Was  the  laying  burdens  on  the  murky  ocean. 

14  The  achievemnt  of  Alawn,  the  Bard  of  Britain, 
Was  to  establish  true  memorials  of  spreading  fame — 
The  mutual  recording  in  the  art  of  disputation. 

15  The  achievement  of  Caswallawn  the  expeller,' 
Was  the  putting  to  flight  of  the  foreign  army. 

And  the  deliverance  of  the  people  and  their  country. 

16  The  achievement  of  Brân,^  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith, 
Against  the  evil  of  perishing  in  the  desert. 

Was  the  planting  of  the  Faith  in  Christ  by  a  holy  law. 

17  The  achievement  of  Goel,  the  son  of  Eyllin  the  Bard, 
Was  the  establishing  of  system  for  the  sacred  assembly — 
Worship  and  praise  in  holy  chant. 

18  The  achievement  of  Manawydan  the  Wise, 
After  lamentation  and  fiery  wrath. 

Was  the  constructing  of  the  fortress  of  bones  of  Oeth  and  An- 
oeth. 

1  These  are  probably  the  reaping  irons  mentioned  by  Giraldus  Cambrenais 
as  used  in  Wales  in  his  time,  the  mode  of  using  which  he  says  he  cannot 
describe  in  words,  but  which  from  what  he  says  must  in  some  measure  have 
resembled  a  pair  of  shears,  and  answered  the  above  term ;  which  speaks  much 
for  the  antiquity  of  these  verses. 

<  Caswallawn  Lawhir  expelled  the  Gwyddelian  Picts  firom  Anglesey  in 
the  fifth  century. 

5  The  father  of  Caractacus,  who  on  his  return  from  Rome  introduced 
Chrbtianity  into  Britain.    See  the  Genealogy  of  the  Saints. 


POETRY.  G71 

19  The  achievement  of  Lleirwg,  the  meek  chieftain, 
The  son  of  Coel  ap  Kyllin  the  Eloquent, 

Was  the  forming  of  books,  and  the  medium  of  learning. 

20  The  achievement  of  Gwdion  ap  Don,^  the  influential, 
By  the  counsel  of  Mor,  the  son  of  Morien, 

Was  the  imposing  of  enchantment  on  the  land  of  Gwyncdd. 

21  The  achievement  of  Severus  the  sovereign,  was  a  fair  work 
Athwart,  over  the  Island  of  Britain — 

Against  the  assailing  hosts — the  Wall  of  Tyne.* 

22  The  achievement  of  Grermanus,  a  meek  personage,  was 
A  compact  work — a  fair  residence— 

The  establishing  of  the  Saints  in  a  choir,  in  a  secure  dwelling. 

23  The  achievement  of  Kynwyd  Kynwydion, 
Was  the  framing  of  goodly  institutions. 
And  establishing  for  choirs  wise  regulations. 

24  The  achievement  of  Manawydan  the  Wise, 

Against  the  deceit  of  treachery  towards  country  and  dominion, 
Was  the  deep  prison  of  Oeth  and  Anoeth.' 

25  The  achievement  of  Urien,  the  son  of  Kynvarcli, 
Was,  in  Aberllyw,  an  intrepid  slaughtering 

Of  twenty  thousand  Gwyddelian  horsemen. 

26  The  achievement  of  Morvydd,  the  daughter  of  Urien, 
Was  the  publication  of  literary  knowledge. 

And  demonstrating  the  moiety  of  genius. 

27  The  achievement  of  Owain,  the  son  of  Urien, 

Was  the  appointing,  in  Aberllychwr,  against  injury. 

The  law  of  judgment,  the  mound  of  justice,  and  the  white  fort. 

28  The  achievement  of  Plennydd,  the  son  of  Hu  the  Bold, 
Was  the  framing  of  records,  by  knots  of  equal  metro. 
Characters  of  memory  placed  on  the  wooden  bar. 

29  The  achievement  of  Llew,  the  son  of  Kynvarch  the  Bard, 
Was  the  appointing  the  skin  of  the  sheep 

A  depository  of  learning,  and  a  record  of  song. 

I  For  his  exploits,  sec  the  Mabinogion. 

-  The  Wall  of  Sererus,  which  extends  across  the  island  from  the  Solway 
Frith  to  the  mouth  of  the  Tyne.  '  See  page  597. 


672  POETRY. 

30  The  achievement  of  Arthur  the  Emperor,  .    . 

Was  the  laying  of  weapons  on  the  coat  of  the  fleeing  Saxon. 
Before  the  army,  he  was  the  best  commander** 

31  The  achievement  of  Rhodri,  the  son  of  Mervyn, 
Freckled  his  visage — a  fierce  man — 

Was  social  order  within  the  limits  of  Wales. 

32  The  achievement  of  Howel,  the  son  of  Cadell ; 
Good^  was  he — his  better  was  not  found ; 

Was  the  establishing  law  and  order  on  warfare. 


OTHER  ACHIEVEMENTS. 

The  achievement  of  Howel,  the  son  of  Cadell, 
The  eldest  son  of  the  house  of  Bhodri, 
Was  a  system  of  law,  and  an  improved  code. 

The  achievement  of  Bran,  the  son  of  Llyr  Llediaith, 

Was  the  appointing  of  speech  in  the  desert,  [spiritual  desert,] 

And  the  establishing  of  order  against  lawlessness. 

The  achievement  of  Cystenyn  Gomeu, 
Was  a  law,  on  account  of  emergencies. 
To  suppress  war  on  the  borders. 

The  achievement  of  Germanus,  the  son  of  Ridigius, 
Was  the  establishing  of  order  amongst  ecclesiastics. 
And  faith,  in  the  day  when  it  was  denied. 

The  achievement  of  Mor  the  son  of  Morien, 

Was  the  establishing  of  privileges  for  the  honoured  land  of 

Wales- 
Liberty  for  the  plough,  and  the  Christian  faith. 

The  achievement  of  Germanus,  the  Saint  of  Wales, 
Was  the  obtaining  of  privilege  for  saints  and  churches. 
And  the  court  of  demand  was  the  act  of  Llyr  Meriui. 


'  This  agrees  with  the  account  of  Nennius;  who  says  of  Arthur,  that 
though  there  were  others  more  noble  than  he,  yet  that  he  was  the  com- 
mander in  battle.    In  one  copy  it  is  said, — "Bed  ipse  dux  erat  bellonim.*' 

2  The  Welsh  legislator.   He  was  called  Howel  Dda,  i.  e.  Ilowel  the  Good, 


POETRY.  673 


THE   CRO\VNED  BABE. 

[From  the  number  of  versions  of  this  composition,  it  most  at  one  time 
have  been  very  popular ;  though  the  occurrences  alluded  to  are,  as  regards 
later  perio<is,  by  no  means  obvious.  These  poems  are,  like  other  spurious 
works,  assigned  to  well  known  ancient  authors,  as  Aneurin,  Merlin,  Gil- 
das,  àc. ;  but  their  general  structure  and  character  at  once  undeceive  the 
reador.  It  is  true  that  lolo  Morganwg  in  his  note,  page  270,  states  it  as 
his  opinion  that  possibly  the  first  may  be  the  composition  of  Aneurin  the 
Bard,  whose  name  it  bears  ;  but  the  translator  can  by  no  means  admit 
even  the  possihilityy  as  it  entirely  differs  in  language,  style,  and  metro 
ÎTom  the  genuine  works  of  Aneurin,  as  indeed  it  does  from  every  other 
composition  of  the  sixth  century  ;  and  he  is  ftilly  convinced  that  neither 
this,  nor  any  other  version  of  these  stanzas,  can  be  older  than  the  fifteenth. 
It  may  be  added,  that  about  this  time  we  find,  in  pictures  of  the  Holy 
Family,  the  Child  represented  with  a  crown  or  diadem  on  his  head,  in- 
stead of  the  halo.  On  the  inside  of  the  MS.  in  which  these  poems  are 
contained,  there  is  pasted,  by  the  collector,  a  wood-cut  of  the  Virgin  and 
Child,  in  which  the  Child  is  thus  decorated  ;  which  wood-cut  is  so  exqui- 
sitely executed,  as  not  to  be  easily  distinguished  fìrom  a  fine  line  engraving 
on  copper  ;  and  of  which  the  late  Basire  said,  that  it  could  be  by  no  less 
skilful  a  hand  than  that  of  Albert  Durer,  an  artist  of  this  period.] 

1.  A  Crowned  Babo,  says  Aneurin 

To  the  Saints,  tho  cell-dwelling  Bards  of  Llanvcithin^s  Choir, 
In  tho  midät  of  his  age  ho  will  strengthen  his  people. 
And  in  the  end  ho  will  bo  a  King. 

2.  A  Crowned  Babe  on  the  first  day, 
Sang  a  chant  in  the  region  of  blisf*, 
With  inspired  genius  from  tho  highest, 

And  the  shout  of  worlds,  and  the  animation  of  Adam. 

3.  A  Crowned  Babe;  the  best  gift  of  God, 
Came  from  heaven  for  tho  protection  of  men. 
Wise  his  instruction,  a  gentle  Iamb, 

And  there  was  he  slain  by  the  host  of  the  Jews. 

4.  Tho  Crowned  Babe  supreme  is  Jesus, 

From  the  laud  of  Galilee  will  he  come  to  Wales, 

Tho  happiness  of  heaven  will  arrive  when  the  congregation  is  seen. 

With  the  white- robed  people  ministering  instruction. 

4  R 


674  POETRY. 

5.  The  Crowned  Babe — lo,  a  wonderful  thing! 
From  the  coming  shower  will  flee  to  the  north. 
He  will  lose  in  England  the  greatness  of  dominion; 
And  jet  a  king  will  he  be  at  last. 

6.  The  Crowned  Babe,  says  Bardism, 

Will  strengthen  Britain  from  the  surface  of  the  ocean. 
When  a  bold  fleet  shall  come  to  Oaer  Ceri, 
Then  woe  to  the  English  with  all  their  hosts. 

7.  The  Crowned  Babe !     His  wings  will  be  plucked. 

From  the  nether  parts  of  England  to  the  bounds  of  the  north, 

But  one  of  his  feathers  shall  grow  at  last, 

In  the  kingdom  of  the  proud,  and  shall  become  wonderful. 

8.  The  Crowned  Babe,  say  ancient  Druids, 
Will  work  a  marvel  amongst  the  Jews. 

He  will  cause  them  like  Christians  to  believe 
In  Christ,  who  lost  his  hearths  blood. 

9.  The  Crowned  Babe,  say  the  Wise  Men  of  the  East, 
Shall  pass  over  the  seas  to  the  lands  of  the  South, 
To  wear  three  crowns,  in  ministration  of  love. 
And  to  bear  honour  to  the  Island  of  Britain. 

1 0.  The  Crowned  Babe,  let  us  believe  sincerely, 

In  the  Tower  of  Babylon  will  raise  up  Churches ; 
A  crowned  king  will  he  doubtless  be. 
And  without  weapons  conquer  all. 

11.  The  Crowned  Babe  will  overcome 
From  the  northern  ocean  to  Judea. 
Every  nation  will  strive  to  find  him. 

Woe  to  the  proud  when  he  comes  to  destroy. 

12.  The  Crowned  Babe,  after  the  conflict 
On  seas  and  lands,  and  mighty  warrings. 

Will  be  clearly  heard  with  the  archangePs  voice 
In  the  Valley  of  Hebron,  on  the  lowland  ground. 

13.  The  Crowned  Babe,  says  Bardic  lore. 
Will  call  out  loudly  for  the  slaughter. 
After  captivity  will  his  honours  arise; 

Over  the  face  of  the  earth  will  be  glowing  fire. 


POETRY.  075 

1 4.  The  Crowned  Babe  shall  proceed  beneath  the  green  hazels, 
And  the  castles  of  the  mighty  shall  he  reduce  to  fragments ; 
He  shall  lift  a  banner,  and  erect  it  up. 

Woe  to  the  chief,  from  the  sword  of  the  encampment. 

15.  The  Crowned  Babe  shall  by  his  enemies 
Be  trodden  as  mire,  and  endure  trouble ; 
And  at  last  be  avenged  on  his  foes. 
And  for  evermore  bo  king  over  men. 

16.  The  Crowned  Babe  shall  be  found  a  protection. 
Against  the  fury  of  the  lion  and  the  flood  of  the  valley. 
And  around  his  throne  shall  bo  appropriate  honour, 
Happy  the  man  whosoever  that  follows  him. 


OTHER  VERSES  OF  THE  CROWNED  BABE. 

BY  IONA8  ATHRAW  OF  MENBVIA. 

This  is  merely  a  repetition  of  the  above,  with  a  few  additiuns,  [>arti- 
cularly  in  the  concluding  versos  ;  as  for  instance  : — 

1 1 .  The  Crowned  Babe  shall  arise  on  a  Friday, 
A<];ainst  Gog  Magog  and  all  their  multitude. 
Then  woo  to  the  Saracens  that  are  in  his  time. 

And  woe  to  them  when  there  is  fighting  beneath  his  banner. 

1 2.  The  Crowned  Ihiho  shall  collect  a  fleet. 
Says  the  wise  Sibyl  who  was  once  a  queen ; 
And  on  the  Turks  shall  inflict  groat  injury  ; 
And  of  fleeiu'i:  l>efc)re  him  there  is  no  refusal. 


OTHER  VERSES  TO  THE  CROWNED  BABE. 

ATTRIBUTED  TO  HIIV8  OOCII,  OF  S.NOWDON. 

In  this  iHK*m,  the  Crownetl  BìiIhî  is  8U]»i»08e<l  by  lolu  Mun^anwg  to  Imj 
Henry  VII.  Ho  is  to  send  a  fleet  to  Cardigan,  and  stir  up  IVnibrokoshire, 
when  he  comes  there  with  his  troops  ;  ami  also  a  fleet  to  Milfonl  Haven, 
ami  shall  cause  England  to  tremble,  and  ihnjsì'»»  the  kingdom,  and  lie  ac- 


676  POETEY. 

knowledged  by  the  Parliament  in  London.  In  this  poem  the  date  of  its 
composition  is  given,  that  is  1590;  but  why  so  distant  a  smbject  as 
Henry  VII.  should  be  chosen,  is  not  quite  obvious. 

8.  The  Crowned  Babe,  say  the  Sages  of  Rome, 

According  to  the  time  of  Jesus,  the  Son  of  the  Virgin, 

One  thousand  five  hundred  and  ninety. 

Shall  avenge  the  excesses  of  the  people  of  London. 


ANOTHER  VERSION  OF  THE  CROWNED  BABE. 

An  anonymous  poem  on  the  same  subject  with  the  first,  and  in  many 
parts  nearly  a  literal  repetition. 

ANOTHER  VERSION  OF  THE  SAME. 
This  version  is  attributed  to  Gildas,  and  differs  but  little  from  the  first 

ANOTHER  VERSION. 

Nearly  the  same  with  the  first,  with  the  mention  of  a  fieet  coming  to 
Milford  Haven,  and  to  Holyhead. 

THE  ODE  OF  THE  CROWNED  BABR 

From  a  printed  book,  chiefly  English,  called  ''  British  and  Out- 
landish Prophecies,  &c.  Published  by  Thomas  Pugh.  London 
printed  by  Lodwick  Lloyd^  at  his  Shop  next  to  Üie  Castle  in 
Com  hill.    1658.^' 

Difiering  but  little  from  the  foregoing. 

ANOTHER  VERSION,  ATTRIBUTED  TO  MERLIN. 

Little  more  than  a  repetition  of  the  foregoing,  with  some  slight  vari- 
ation in  the  wording. 


VERSES  ON  THE  NAMES  OF  GOD,  BY  SION  KENT  [JOHN 
OF    KENTCHURCH.] 

[John  of  Eentchurch,  or  John  of  Kent,  as  he  is  called,  is  said  to  have 
been  a  priest  at  Kentchm^h,  in  Herefordshire,  on  the  confines  of  Wales, 
about  the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century.    He  still  enjoys  a  high 


POETRY.  077 

degree  of  popularity,  in  the  legendary  stories  of  the  Principality,  as  a 
powerful  magician.  There  is  in  the  possession  of  Mr.  Scudamore,  of 
Kentchurch,  an  ancient  painting  of  a  monk,  supposed  to  be  a  portrait  of 
John  of  Kent;  and  as  the  family  of  Scudamore  is  descended  from  a 
daughter  of  Owen  Glendower,  at  whoso  house  that  chieftain  is  believed 
to  have  passed  in  concealment  a  portion  of  the  latter  part  of  his  life,  it 
has  been  supposed  that  John  of  Kentchurch  was  no  other  than  Owen 
Glendower  himself.] 

1.  GroD  Three  Persons, — God  Keli  we  believe  in; — Dav^  Eliy 
Dwyv ; — again  we  laud  thee. 
The  Worthy  Chief,  whose  praise  we  sing ; 
Lord^  Father^  of  known  and  mighty  love. 

The  remainder  of  the  poem  consists  of  the  proper  names  of  the  Divi- 
nity, which  are  introduced  in  the  same  manner,  and  may  be  distinguished 
by  their  initial  letters  being  capitals.  For  the  name  OiWy  formed  of  the 
letters  0, 1,  and  W,  see  the  Ode  of  the  Secret,  page  688,  concluding  note. 


THE  AGE  AND  DURATION  OF  THINGS. 

BY   JOHN    OF    KENTCHURCH. 

Triads  of  the  ages  in  their  complete  progress 

Were  formerly  generally  known.* 

Three  years  is  the  duration  of  an  Alder  Pole.  3  Years. 

Three  times  the  duration  of  an  alder  pole 

Is  the  life  of  a  good  Dog  in  the  green  woodland.         9 

'  An  ancient  fragment  attributed  to  Hesiod,  and  quoted  by  Aristo- 
phanes, contains  a  similar  series  of  comparative  ages,  but  differing  in  the 
instances,  and  terms  of  existence. 

^vv€a  Toi  (fcL'ci  7ci'eaff  XoKCftv  t^a  Koptuptf 
Aviptup  fiPtuirrtuVy  cXa0off  ^€  re  rerpoKOptuvoff 
T/>€iv  ^6  cXa0(fŶ  o  Kopaf  ytpaoKerat  avrap  o  <f>oi¥i{ 
Eyyea  Ttfv  Koptucafy  ecxa  èe  iffictf  rotn  yoifixat 
ìivfA<f>ai  €VT\oKafiOí  icëpai  Aioy  aiyioxoto, 

**Tho  chattering  crow  lives  nine  ages  of  youthfìil  men  ;  the  stag  lives 
four  times  as  long  as  the  crow;  the  raven  three  times  as  long  as  the  stag ; 
but  the  phtrnix  nine  times  as  long  as  the  raven ;  while  wo  faiivhaired 
nymphs,  daughters  of  ^gis-bearing  Jove,  live  nine  times  as  long  as  the 
phoenix."    See  Beloe's  Herodotus — Notes. 


678      TT]  POETRY. 

And  three  times  the  age  of  the  dog 

Is  the  age  of  a  good  and  active  Horse. 

Thrice  the  age  of  the  horse 

Is  that  of  a  Man — a  short  existence ! 

Thrice  the  age  of  man 

Is  that  of  the  bounding  Hart. 

Thrice  the  age  of  the  stag 

Is  that  of  the  melodious  Blackbird. 

Thrice  the  age  of  the  beautiful  blackbird 

Is  that  of  the  earth-grown  Oak, 

And  thrice  the  age  of  the  oak 

Is  judged  to  be  that  of  the  Earth  itself, 

All  these,  like  the  turn  of  a  wheel, 

Will  be  completed  without  delay ; 

Nor  can  any  one  restrain  the  hour 

In  which  frowning  death  will  arrive. 

Death  will  no  more  forget 

The  spirited  man  than  the  meek  and  mi 

With  the  same  degree  of  forbearance 

Will  he  send  to  the  grave  the  fierce  and 

Impartial,  he  will  not  spare 

Honour  any  more  than  beauty. 

Let  us  seek  the  enduring  honour 

Of  Him  above,  the  Sovereign  of  heaven. 

Who  lives  for  ever,  undying  and  withoi] 

Where  there  is  every  enjoyment. 

And  the  palace  of  our  powerful  Monarcl 

Day  without  night;  joyful  singing, 

Without  clouds ;  without  darkness. 

Health,  without  complaint  of  sickness ; 

Healthful  as  the  holy  saints. 

Every  one,  through  the  power  of  the  A] 

Thirty  years  of  age,  and  nothing  more. 

Where  there  is  every  inspiration  of  geni 

And  none  inferior,  but  ^11  well  skilled. 

Genius  and  erudition  there  together. 

Of  perfect  nature  as  in  the  beginning. 

Avoid  hell  with  its  imprisoned  fiends, 

And  its  hunters  with  their  loud  wailing 

Where  there  are  prepared,  O  horrible  sc 

Red  hot  hooks  and  spits. 


c 


POETRY.  679 

And  frost,  of  a  hundrod  ages ; 

Ice  that  has  never  thawed. 

With  revolving  snares  and  nets, 

Bellows  and  cauldrons  ready, 

And  the  closing  of  hell  overhead. 

In  vengeance  on  the  life  of  man. 

Where  there  is  general  inflicting  of  punishment 

Upon  souls  for  their  perjuries. 

And  their  drinking  in  vain  assemblies. 

Along  with  false  persons,  and  their  denying  the  faith. 

Then  will  be  in  bareness  and  heavy  affliction, 

The  man  who  was  once  in  great  prosperity. 

Who  never  gave  alms  to  the  poor. 

Nor  any  thing  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Qt)d. 

Abandoning  prayer  and  mass, 

Sunday  and  holiday,  and  living  dissolutely. 

Know  thou  well  that  not  of  such  actions, 

After  their  commission,  shall  there  be  hopo. 

Let  us  turn  from  our  offences :  Vastly  pitiable 

Is  the  sinful  and  alluring  desire 

For  wealth  that  lasts  but  an  hour. 

And  the  deadly  sin  that  endures  not  long. 

Let  us  go  without  deceit,  for  our  enlightening. 

To  the  church  of  God  our  holy  Father. 

Let  us  constantly  do  justice  to  the  weak 

lîefore  heaven,  without  perverting  truth. 

ÌÌO  the  name  of  the  beneficent  Jesus  supremo, 

And  let  us  give  alms. 

If  this  we  do,  through  the  powerful  word, 

In  due  course  we  shall  obtain  the  possession ; 

With  the  mercy  that  shall  bo  with  us 

In  the  grave,  and  a  happy  end. 


AN  ODE, 

Composed,  about  1390,  by  Griffith  Llwyd,  the  son  of  Davydd 
ap  Einion  Lygliw,  to  Morgan  Davydd  Llewelyn,  the  sou  of 
Philip  Trchaom,  of  RhydtMlyn  in  Cayo,  when  he  was  put  on  his 
trial  for  killing  the  Chief  Justice  of  Caermarthen  on  the  bench  at 


11 


680 


POETRY. 


Caermarthen;  which  Morgan  Davydd  Lle^ 
Ivor  Hael,  of  Worn  y  Cleppa,  in  Monmc 
book  of  Mr.  Lewis,  of  Penllin. 

[In  the  English  note  at  the  foot  of  the  poem 
killed  two  Judges  on  the  bench,  namely,  Caer  c 
evidently  an  error,  arising  from  a  misimderstam 
"  am  hdd  iestys  Caer  a  Canaw^'^—for  slaying  the  ji 
in  proper  orthography  would  be,  as  in  the  titl< 
hanaw"  that  is,  jŵr  the  slaying  of  the  justice  ofCc 
being  the  abbreviation  for  Caermarthen.  The 
is  generally  called  Sîr  GaerJ] 

Sir  David/  the  assertor  of  justice, 
The  moderator  of  the  meted  law. 
Of  the  golden-crested  helmet,  of  the  ] 
Thine  is  a  great  name,  the  lord  Ham 
A  complete  lawyer  pure  as  silver, 
A  second  David  in  our  own  day  art 
Of  wide  celebrity  thy  tongue  and  th; 
Widelv  hast  thou  established  the  wis 
Come  thou,  with  thy  vast  talents, 
To  the  citadel  of  Merlin,^  at  my  reqi 
To  maintain,  throughout  the  contestj 
Richard,^  the  august  king. 
When  thou  seest,  most  esteemed  lore 
The  examining  of  the  liberal  man  wfa 
A  thousand  along  with  me  will  certil 
Morgan,  the  distributor  of  gold  [i.  e. 
Orant  to  him,  though  a  hundred  shoi 
An  honourable  jury,  becoming  an  ini 
The  liberal  man  will  not  have  a  peasa 
Nor  a  tailor,  a  dirty  procurer  of  clotl 
Nor  shoemakers,  a  senseless  crew ; 
Nor  drovers,  of  stubborn  tribe ; 
Nor  let  idle  persons,  who  know  not  tl 
Be  numbered  for  the  work. 
1.  Let  Grufydd  ap  Rhys  be  appointed, 
The  generous  and  spirited  poet  of  G\ 

>  Sir  David  Hanmer,  the  Chief  Justice  on  the  C 
Morgan  was  put  on  his  trial.  ^  CaermartheD 


POETRY.  681 

A  composer  of  no  unpolished  song, 

A  man  who  for  gold  will  not  perjure  himself. 

2.  Llewdyn  Goeh,  of  expanded  vision, 
The  spirited  owner  of  energetic  genius. 

It  will  not  be  difficult  in  the  honourable  court 

3.  To  obtain  a  true  verdict  if  Bhys  leuanc  is  numbered. 
One  the  most  excellent  of  youths, 

That  shall  render  judgment :  let  him  go  to  the  bench. 

4.  Mod  y  Pantriy  no  unskilful  gilder  of  song 

Is  the  splendid  eagle.     Of  established  fame  is  he 
With  his  country ;  one  who  will  keep  his  oath. 

5.  Let  Rhys  Brydydd  be  counted ;  well  known  his  claim 
To  the  composition  of  legitimate  verse ; 

6.  And  Davydd  of  inspired  verse, 

The  energetic  son  of  lontertAj  of  the  vigorous  muse 

7.  It  is  right  to  admit  Owen  the  son  of  Datydd^ 
The  bright  constructor  of  poetry ; 

The  man  who  chants  the  melody  of  the  green  wood ; 
Wakeful  and  vigorous,  in  the  district  of  Iscoed. 

8.  And  easy  will  be  the  poem  of  the  Kyw^ 
And  difficult  to  find  bis  equal. 

9.  The  Pasned,  an  honourable  man,  will  be  credited, 
Notwithstanding  the  ravenous  birds  ofthe  county  [law  officers.] 

10.  I  would  not  doubt  the  hundredth  word 

Of  the  CrcuJiB  oath,  with  his  hand  on  the  relics. 

1 1 .  Let  also  at  their  meeting  be  counted  amongst  them, 
Syppyn  [Kyteiliog  .'I  exalted  is  his  fame. 

12.  Let  me  also  bo  counted,  whenever  desired. 

Has  not  the  God  of  heaven,  of  peace,  and  harmony  formed  me 

A  man  whom  he  will  not  suffer  to  swear  a  falsehood  I 

And  shall  we  not  by  citation  prosecute 

Him  who  swears  it  against  a  mane's  life ! 

If  on  any  day  we  sit  togeth  er 

In  the  house  of  Gtcenllian  Ilir^ 

Certain  is  it,  if  the  twelve 

Are  of  my  opinion  in  the  fair  tavern. 

For  two  ship-loads  of  solid  gold. 

They  never  will  recognise  Morgan  as  guilty. 

May  the  curse  of  Mary,  the  protector  of  the  land, 

And  that  of  Ood,  lie  upon  the  man  who  deserts  him. 

4  H 


682  POETRY. 


VERSES  COMPOSED  BY  JOHN   OF  KENT  CHURCH  ON  HIS 

DEATH-BED. 


1.  What  shall  man^  obtain  of  the  world,  and  the  pomp 

Of  lands  and  riches, 
But  a  fathom  of  grave  to  lie  in. 
And  one  small  shroud,  in  all  Ì 

2.  Never  more  shall  there  be  poured  out  for  this  body, 

Of  the  pernicious  accursed  beverage ; 
I  seek,  in  my  urgency  and  need. 
My  portion  of  sustenance  for  the  soul. 

3.  Wise  is  the  Christian,  and  consistently  good, 

Seeking  God  above  all : 
Whoso  finds  God  shall  find  goodness ; 
Benefit  shall  man  obtain  from  remembering  him. 

4.  Good  is  death  in  the  end,  for  the  man 

Who  speaks  the  truth. 
With  God's  cheering  countenance  there  is  abundance : 
Without  the  blessed  God,  we  are  without  satisfaction  ! 

5.  The  torment  of  subduing  vengeance, 

Alas !  is  afflicting  me. 
Woe  to  the  one,  and  woe  to  the  many, 
Who  shall  endure  a  portion  of  my  torture. 

6.  Hear  me  groaning  and  sorely  complaining, 

Like  a  wolf  in  a  chain. 
Do  not,  Heavenly  Lord,  I  beseech  thee. 
Take  me  from  the  world  in  a  state  of  burning. 

7.  Is  there  any  man,  or  any  one,  to  be  found  faultless 

To  come  to  the  throne  ? 
Is  there  any  one,  in  whom  there  is  no  guilt  Ì 
Yes — the  Son  of  our  Lady  St.  Mary. 


1  The  word  Christian  is  used  for  a  human  being,  as  it  frequently  is  also  in 
English,  at  the  present  day. 


POETRY.  683 

8.  God  of  Heaven,  forgive  me  the  sins 

I  have  committed  so  long ; 
Before  dying — ^before  the  fierce  Buramons  of  death. 
My  day,  it  is  approaching. 

9.  Towards  the  cold  dreary  grave  of  fleshless  bones, 

And  of  motionless  limb, 
Without  a  cheerful  prospect,  without  merriment, 
Until  the  last  trial — ^until  the  day  of  judgment. 

10.  Proud  is  man  amidst  the  fulness  of  feasting, 

And  inspiring  is  the  song. 
But  consider,  thou  multitude,  the  end — 
To  the  dense  earth  will  man  go. 

11.  May  the  Son  of  Chod  in  goodness  give  some  day 

To  every  man  His  Spirit. 
After  the  day,  life  will  be  no  more, 
Nor  man,  nor  day,  nor  earth. 

12.  After  that  day  has  fully  past. 

Neither  sun  nor  moon  shall  then  exist, 
Nor  stars,  nor  voice  of  bird. 
Nor  bray  of  hart,  nor  day,  nor  man. 

13.  The  best  counsel,  by  St.  Mary,  is  to  trust  in  God, 

As  there  is  nothing  without  him 
But  dark  death  to  deceive  us : 
And  death  undoubtedly  will  come. 


THE  POEM  OF  ST.  ILLTYD. 

Composed  by  Lewys  Morganwg,  who  flourished  about  1520; 
copied  from  the  book  of  Thomas  ap  levan,  of  TroV  Bryn,  which 
was  written  about  the  year  1670. 

The  holv  chief  of  the  meek  and  faithful  saints, 

Illtyd  of  the  blood  of  Armorica ; 

A  knight  of  lineal  descent  was  he. 

From  Bikanys,  son  of  Kenais,  a  powerful  man  in  Britain ; 

A  baron  of  ancient  kingly  blood ; 


684  POETRY. 

A  Briton  was  his  mother,  the  chast< 
Of  a  king  of  Great  Britain.^ 
The  chieftain  acquired  true  learning 
No  man  ever  acquired  greater. 
He  was  familiar,  as  a  man  of  might, 
With  the  hauberk,  and  the  use  of  ar 
A  warrior  of  God,  battering  the  stee 
A  Knight'  of  the  great  battle-fightir 
From  his  own  country  he  crossed  th 
To  become  a  Saint  in  this  island ; 
To  visit  the  warriors. 
And  the  three  festivals  of  Arthur  an 
And  the  king  of  the  warlike  land  of 
He  became  a  man  of  power  in  a  fair 
When,  in  a  hunting  excursion. 
He  beheld  the  state  of  men  sinking  ì 
He  and  his  household  took  their  dep 
And  came  to  his  kinsman  Gattwg. 
He  then  renoimced  like  a  hermit 
The  whole  world  and  its  life. 
And  dedicated  to  the  Son  of  the  Vii 
His  whole  endeavour  to  amend  his  li 
He,  by  a  splendid  miracle,  refused 
The  sumptuous  banquet  of  the  king. 
In  the  valley  of  a  brook,^  an  angel  pi 
From  his  gentle  sleep  he  sent  him 
To  the  place  which  was  desired. 
Unto  the  brook  of  the  venerable  Ho( 
Where  was  built  the  church  we  see  1 
A  holy  beautiful  place  is  his  whole  c 
Dubricius  there  conferred  a  benedicti 
Upon  his  head  with  his  hands. 
There  did  he  lead  a  life 
Of  rigid  regularity  whilst  he  remaini 


1  Rieiogulid,  daughter  of  Anblaad,  king  of  Britai 
Latin,  Begina  pwUca, 
«  He  is  caUed  «  Eltyd  Varchog,"  lUtyd  the  Knig 
s  This  refers  to  a  miracle  wroug^  by  St.  Cattwg 
^  Nadavan.    See  Latin  Life. 
^  Which,  in  the  Latia  Life,  is  said  to  signify,  "  F 


POETRY.  685 

A  pious  Bupplicator 
Of  the  God  of  heaven,  for  the  future. 
One  meal,  with  the  penance  of  faith, 
Bare-headed  would  he  daily  make. 
And  each  night  would  he  naked  remain 
For  a  whole  hour  in  a  cold  spring. 
Perform  miracles  upon  the  legs  of  the  lame, 
By  the  briney  sea,  did  the  virtuous  Illtyd  ; 
By  incessant  labour  cultivating  his  land. 
An  ocean  covered  the  whole  corn-land  : 
The  sea  did  he  so  manfully 
With  his  staff  compel  to  retreat, 
That  the  tide  would  not  ascend  the  Dawon, 
Where  the  faithful  Illtyd  placed  his  sUff. 
The  stag,  before  the  cry  of  pursuit^ 
Sought  his  protection  in  the  time  of  need. 
A  companion  of  the  horse  and  bearer  of  turf, 
A  carrier  of  stones  was  the  huge  stag. 
Illtyd  was  courteous  to  the  king. 
The  water  readily  produced  his  wine. 
The  salt  was  in  profusion, 
And  the  fish  became  bread. — 

[The  poem  continues  in  the  same  strain  throughout,  following  the  le- 
gendary Life  of  St.  Illtyd ;  but  at  the  same  time  making  such  mere  cur- 
sory allusions  to  the  facts  therein  contained,  that,  without  an  explanation 
by  reference  to  that  document,  not  a  single  line  can  be  understood ;  and 
as  the  Lives  of  the  Welsh  Saints  are  now  ready  for  the  press,  it  is  thought 
not  expedient  to  anticipate  any  portion  of  them  in  the  further  elucidation 
of  this  poem.] 


THE  POEM  OF  ST.  TEILO. 

This  poem  was  composed  by  Icvan  Llwyd  ap  Gwilym,  and,  like  the 
foregoing,  is  but  a  versified  abstract  of  the  legendary  Life  of  the  Saint 
whoso  name  it  bears.  The  bard  commences  with  the  genealogy  of  St 
Toilo,  and  says  he  was  of  the  race  of  Ilychdwn,  and  also  of  that  of  Kedig 
and  Kynedda.  He  states  that  he  was  Bishop  of  Llandaff,  and  Principal 
of  the  Seven  Cantrevs  of  Glamorgan ;  and  proceeds  to  allude  to  some  of 
the  miraculous  occurrences  related  in  the  legendary  Life  of  Teilo,  which 
has  been  already  printed  by  the  Society  in  the  Liber  Landavensis. 


POETRY.  687 

the  legendary  Life.  lie  concludea  by  imploring  the  protection  of  the 
Saint  for  Brychciniog  [Brcconsliiroj  the  land  of  his  father  Brychan ;  and 
which,  from  the  argent  manner  in  which  the  Saint's  favour  is  requested, 
seems  to  be  also  the  native  country,  or  at  least  the  residence,  of  the  bard 
himself. 


A  POEM  TO  ANOTHER'S  BOOK. 

By  John  of  Kontchurch.     From  the  Collection  of  Thomas  ap 
lovan,  of  TreV  Bryn,  written  about  1670. 

[After  attentively  examining  this  poem,  the  translator  finds  himself 
utterly  unable  to  discover  its  object,  as  to  what  book  is  alluded  to.  The 
author  was  priest  of  Kcntchurch,  in  Ilcrcfordshiro,  on  the  confines  of 
Monmoutshire  and  Breconshire,  and  is  said  to  have  lived  in  the  time  of 
Wickliffe,  and  to  have  been  of  his  party.  As  the  parish  of  Kent  church  is 
adjacent  to  that  of  Oldcastlc,  the  residence  of  Sir  John  Oldcastle,  Lord^Cob- 
ham,  it  is  by  no  means  impossible  that  John  of  Kentchurch  may  also  have 
favoured  the  same  opinions;  and  his  poems  may  in  some  measure 
sanction  the  idea.] 

Doubtless,  by  the  ignorant  and  false 

Assortor  of  great  presumption, 

A  Book  thou  art  not  giving  true  utterance 

In  thy  leaves,  nor  honest  nor  upright. 

Thou  scurrilous  utterer  of  fifteen  kinds  [i.  e.  motley,] 

Wait  thy  judgment,  if  thou  livest ; 

Or  else,  do  thou  tremble  at  the  words  of  religion — 

Get  thee  to  hide  between  some  old  chest  and  the  wall. 

Bold  art  thou  in  all  wickedness, 

Thy  blamelcssness  has  ended. 

Cease  thou  from  mo. — Dost  thou  not  remember  the  fall 

Of  Oldcastle  Î — Thou  shalt  have  a  similar  fall. 

Indignant  are  the  powerful,  loudly  fierce  and  warm, 

Extremely  indignant  that  they  are  not  vindicated. 

The  poet  then  proceeds  to  speak  of  the  indignation  of  the  well-robed 
Bishops,  the  Monks,  Friars,  and  Priests ;  and  in  the  course  of  the  com- 
position he  makes  some  strong  animadversions  on  the  luxurious  living  of 
the  Churchmen,  stating  that  formerly  the  Friars  were  preachers,  who 
possessed  no  wealth,  and  went  about  on  foot  with  nothing  but  a  stafi* ; 


688 


POETRY. 


bat  that  now  they  possessed  horses,  and  ft^quei 
David,  as  ho  has  the  trnest  authority  for  it,  nev 
nor  did  he  wear  any  garment  save  one  of  horsehs 
saying,  that  after  the  feasting,  the  wine  and  fin 
gold,  it  is  not  by  such  loxories  that  heaven  will  I 


THE  SECRET. 

BY  RHYS  OOCH  OF  8N0WIX 

[This  Bard  flourished  between  1330  and  142 
Garegog,  near  Festiniog,  amongst  the  Snowdon  n 
still  shown  his  seat,  consisting  of  large  stones,  ] 
chair. — See  the  Cambrian  Biography.] 

Valiant  Llewelyn,  daring  dragon, 
Gome  thou  of  strong  faith  towards  tl 
Where  the  head  of  Cystenyn  Vendij 
Of  the  battle-controuling  spear, 
Amongst  the  oaks  of  the  wood  of  Fa 
With  its  angel  countenance,  lies  con 
On  the  cold  rock  of  Snowdon 
There  is  great  advantage,  where  I  w 
Should  he  of  the  brilliant  aspect. 
The  soul  of  poets,  come  to  our  count] 
There  would  be  found  a  minstrel  of  i 
And  mead  and  wine  among  the  rock 
Fluent  head,  which  so  eloquent  and 
Didst  give  a  wise  answer, 
A  prudent  reproach,  many  are  the  ii 
Given  in  my  hasty  song  respecting  t 
And  the  tcord  is  just  and  not  false. 
An  equivocal  word'  in  the  metres. 
Thou  knowest,  thou  cheerful  hero. 
The  meaning  of  this  matter  of  peacel 
If  a  price  were  laid  on  my  expressioi 
Every  word  of  my  verse  of  record 
In  the  exceeding  precious  eulogy  on 

1  Dinas  Emrys,  near  Beddgel 
'  Doubtless  mwys;  which  see  in  Dr.  Owen  I 


À 


POETRY.  689 

Wise  and  skilful,  without  excepting  one  word 

In  the  price  of  an  ode,  I  should  not  be  poorer. 

Than  I,  no  one  more  cheerful. 

Though  there  be  one  teardj  when  concealed, 

At  the  stipulated  price,  but  lowly  estimated. 

May  disgrace  arrive,  on  account  of  Llewelyn, — 

Under  the  indignation  of  morality  be  the  indecorum  of  man, 

If  there  should  be  an  unbecoming  word  of  vanity. 

Though  I  should  have  the  whole  world. 

It  behoves  honourable  minstrels 

To  speak  of  the  inspiration  of  the  morning : 

Let  us  adhere,  through  experienced  grace, 

To  this,  henceforth,  upon  the  field. 

Without  deception,  you  have  displayed 

The  ardency  of  poetry  to  Rhys  Goch. 

It  was  upon  the  Pentecost,  wonderful  is  the  account, 

That  in  the  bright  presence  of  angels 

There  was  manifested  the  gracious  favour  of  heaven 

To  a  thousand  inspirations,  at  the  first. 

Five  thousand  and  two  hundred  years 

According  to  note  and  record, 

Qod  himself  being  the  director. 

Before  the  Pentecost,  of  protecting  council. 

There  was  received  the  bright  knowledge  of  pure  inspiration, 

From  the  throne  where  are  the  thunders. 

And  its  eloquent  progeny  daily 

From  the  learning  of  Granapla^  came 

To  the  fair  and  trefoilod  Vale  of  Ebron,' 

A  boon  conveyed  by  angels ; 

And  there,  in  bright  and  holy  movement, 

Was  composed  the  strain  of  Paradise. 

And  Adam,  through  the  aid  of  the  Lord  Ood, 

By  the  command  of  Alpha  learned  it. 

The  first  song,  by  the  blessed  holy  chief 

With  instructed  lips  was  sung; 

And  this  measure,  of  the  force  of  ages, 

Which  to  an  ancient  brilliant  verse  was  chanted, 

1  Einigan  Gawr,  (see  page  668 — ^note  2,)  according  to  lolo  Moiganwg. 
^  In  the  Awdl  Vraith,  H  la  said  that  Adam  was  created  in  the  Vale  of 
Ebron,  where  he  lay  five  hundred  years  before  he  received  life. 

4  T 


GOO  POETRY. 

Bore  a  name  of  wondrous  import. 
Again  came  with  glory  to  the  vallej 
A  bridge  of  fame,  and  fully  straight 
I  know  the  history,  and  it  is  true, 
Did  God  of  his  grace  commit  to  bea: 
As  a  reward  in  the  mouth  of  Gabric 
And  Gabriel  with  true  and  powerful 
Well  is  it  known  to  me — bore  it  sec 
From  the  Catholic  heaven,  with  a  h 
Of  vast  extension,  to  the  glorious  W 
Of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  the  Father  ai 
The  sacred  golden  rods  of  the  lightr 
Of  the  three  letters^  the  goodly  tcord 
Living  and  resplendent  was  the  gift 
By  the  same  letter,  received  as  a  tr 
From  the  gates  of  heaven 
By  our  exalted  science,  and  at  our  < 
There  is  written  the  true  Wen^ 
The  one  half  of  Awevi^  [poetic  inspi 
And  the  exact  extraction  is  from  th 
From  heaven;  and  together  with  tl 
The  obtaining  of  the  vigorous  poetr 
And  of  this,  gentle  Llewelyn, 
Thou  didst  utter  undeceiving  verse 
Distinctly  in  the  firmness  of  the  fai 
As  a  lofty  wall,  in  true  metre  and  1 
Respecting -a «?e;j  [genius,]  yesterda 
That  it  is  the  soul  of  the  Bards, 
The  best  portion  of  Scripture,  the  u 


1  The  word  Awen  signifies  poetic  irupiratUm  ; 
represents  the  one  half  of  the  word,  according  to 
It  would  be  waste  of  time  to  enter  into  an  etymol 
of  the  fourteenth  century ;  nevertheless  the  trans] 
the  word  awen  has  its  root  in  aw,  to  floWy  and  aL 
derivatives  in  aire/,  a  gale,  and  awon  and  avoriy  a  r 
with  the  Greeek  auy,  to  breathe^  and  awy,  the  êea 
should  be  syllabled  aw-eny  and  thus  exhibit  its  re 
inspiration. 

2  This  unknown  word,  in  which  the  Secret  app( 
dently  the  same  with  that  given  by  John  of  Kentc 
and  by  lolo  Morganwg  (p.  614)  as  0. 1.  W. ;  and 


POETRY.  G91 

Manfully  hast  thou  answered,  thou  of  fair  lineage, 
And  eloquently,  without  hesitation. 


(p.  617)  as  0. 1.  U.,  and  there  said  to  be  the  unutterable  name  of  God,  and 
to  have  been  formerly  written  0.  I.  O.  See  also  p.  470.  Whatever  word 
the  Bards  may  have  framed  from  these  characters,  or  whatever  construction 
they  may  have  placed  upon  it,  from  the  statement  of  its  being  the  unutterable 
name,  there  can  hardly  be  a  question  that  the  three  letters  were  originally  no 
other  than  lAO,  the  Latinized  form  of  lAQ ;  which  is  the  Greek  rendering  of 
the  Hebrew  n^i»  Jehovah  ;  and  that  such  was  the  rendering  of  that  name,  we 
have  the  authority  of  several  ancient  writers.  Diodorus  Siculus  says  it  was 
related  [^iffropovat]  that  amongst  the  Jews,  Moses  attributed  the  framing  of 
the  laws  to  the  God  called  lAO—-frapa  Be  to(9  lovèaioi9  Muxrifv  tov  \au)  e^rc* 
Kokovfievov  0€oy :  and  Theodoret  states  that  God  was  by  the  Jews  called 
lAO— lov^aioi  Ò€  lAQ. 

This  word  was  supposed  to  possess  extraordinary  talismanic  virtues,  and 
is  together  with  that  of  ABRAXAS  frequently  seen  on  the  amulets  of  the 
Gnostics,  and  generally  in  thb  form  i  AUI,  [see  Montfaucon  ;]  which,  from 
the  monstrous  figure  of  the  Sun  by  which  it  is  accompanied,  and  which  was 
by  those  heretics  intended  as  a  representation  of  Christ,  is  by  Walsh,  in  liis 
Essay  on  ancient  Christian  Coins,  supposed  to  signify  Iesus  Alpha  Omega. 
It  is  possible  the  letters  may  have  been  so  adapted  ;  but  still  its  original  im- 
port, as  the  Greek  rendering  of  the  Hebrew  name  Jehovah,  is  too  well  es- 
tablished to  be  called  in  question,  i.  e.  the  unutterable  name,  the  nomen  in^a- 
bilfty  which  is  by  the  Jews  not  only  forbidden  to  be  pronounced,  save  on 
solemn  occasions,  but  whoso  real  pronunciation  is  said  to  be  known  only  to 
the  higher  orders  of  the  priesthood ;  and  when  the  name  occurs  in  tlie  courso 
of  reading  the  Scriptures,  that  of  Ädonài  is  always  substituted  for  it,  except 
when  a  repetition  of  the  latter  word  would  take  place,  and  then  the  namo 
Elohim  is  used  together  with  Ädonài;  thus  on  all  occasions  avoiding  the  pro- 
nunciation of  Jehofxih,  It  may  also  be  remarked,  tliat  the  Hebrew  letters 
n^n*  do  not  remove  the  doubt  as  to  the  real  sound  of  the  word,  inasmuch  as 
they  have  not  the  original  vowel  points,  but  in  their  stead  those  of  Adanài, 
and  sometimes  of  Elohim.  So  completely  have  the  Jews  succeeded  in  mysti- 
fying the  subject. — See  Buxtorf. 

The  reason  the  Jews  give  for  the  concealment  of  this  name  is  the  following. 
When  the  Almighty  declared  hb  name  to  Moses,  (Exod.  iii.  16.)  he  said 
:  ni  "Mh  nat  nti  oSyS  »er-ni  The  import  of  which,  as  generally  rendered,  is 
in  perfect  accordance  with  our  authorized  translation  ;  **  This  is  my  name  for 
every  and  this  is  my  memorial  unto  ail  generations^*  Now,  according  to  the 
Ral)bins,  this  is  a  false  translation ;  for  the  word  nhy  which  we  render  ever, 
signifies  also  hidden  and  secret;  so  tliat  the  interpretation  of  the  passage,  they 
contend,  is,  *'  Let  this  my  name  be  secret :  keep  this  in  remembrance  for  ail 
generations** 

The  CubalLstic  learning  connected  witli  the  foregoing  and  similar  mysti- 
cbms,  became  very  popular  about  the  period  of  the  revival  of  literature,  and 
appears  to  have  reached  its  acme  in  the  early  part  of  the  sixteentli  century, 
when  Cornelius  Agrippa  wrote  liis  Occult  Philosophy. 


692  POETRY. 

It  came  unobstructed  to  the  wise  Ev 
From  heaven  did  it  come,  faultless  a 
Thus  did  the  Awen  come  to  us 
By  strength  of  grace, — the  mother  o 
There  is  no  excellence  of  letters,  or  < 
Nor  life  of  craftwork  without  genius 
Taliesin  was  daring  in  his  verse ; 
The  hope  of  a  prophet  knew  it. 
Llewelyn  the  celebrated,  of  brilliant 
The  hewer  of  song  of  inspired  wordi 
And  disgrace  to  the  man  of  oblique 
Or  the  traitor,  who  would  disparage 
The  lover  of  peace,  from  the  land  of 
This  poem  of  an  old  grey-headed  ms 
Proclaiming  the  fame  of  the  two-ed^ 
An  edge  in  battle  and  in  social  orde 


A  POEM  TO  THE  VIRGIN 

Composed  by  leuan  ap  Bhydderch  ap  Ic 
Mary  of  Penrice,  in  Glamorgan,  accordin 
From  the  Manuscript  of  Llewelyn  Sion,  o: 
collection  of  old  Welsh  poetry,  made  about 

Mart  is  our  trust  against  danger ;  the  ti 
incense,  beautiful,  heavenly,  of  the  slender 
obtain,  by  her  miracle,  the  holy  body  of 
church,  and  the  streaming  of  his  blood  froc 

Holy  Mary ;  pure  and  bright !  The  m 
was  not  an  indifferent  work.  Thou  hast  o 
thy  five  joys.  Thou  happy  resplendent  Sist 
precious  gift — ^the  bearing  of  the  blessed  L< 

Thou,  free  from  evil — ^the  truthful  Bit 
the  thrice  adored  descended  to  thy  womb,  I^ 
— I  myself  will  learn  to  sing  like  a  discipl 
song.  The  delightful  science  of  harmony 
undisparaged. 

^  This  is  probably  descriptive  of  the  image  of 
"«vhica  the  poeii  was  composed. 


POETRY.  693 

Most  generous  Mary,  bright  and  beautiful,  that  didst  instruct 
the  glorious  Son  of  God,  who  endured  the  rough  and  lacerating 
bloodnstreaming  cross,  with  the  great  and  horrid  torturing  nails. 

The  foregoing  is  the  substance  of  the  first  stanzas  of  this  composition. 
What  follows  is  in  the  same  strain ;  bat,  fh>m  the  peculiarity  of  the 
metre,  scarcely  convertible  into  prose  in  an  English  translation,  without 
considerable  circumlocution.  The  last  verses  are  a  mixture  of  Latin  and 
Welsh,  the  Latin  taken  fh>m  hymns  and  addresses  to  the  Viigin. 


AN  ODE  TO  KING  HENRY  THE  SEVENTH. 

[Copied  from  the  Book  of  Havod  Uchtryd.  The  author  not  certain ; 
but  probably  Davydd  Nanmor,  the  son  of  Rhys  Nanmor,  of  Vaynor 
Vynyw,  the  son  of  Davydd  Nanmor  of  Owynedd,  the  Bard.] 

Thb  great  miracle-working  Potentate  has  granted  our  Harry, 
That  he  may  obtain  a  long  life  ;^ 
And  may  Christ  grant,  through  the  streams  of  the  cross. 
That  the  son  of  Edmund  may  live  five  ages. 

May  it  be  granted  to  the  honoured  Sovereign  of  England, 
The  war- clarion*  of  the  race  of  Tudor, 
That  he  shall  not  fear  a  traitor. 
Nor  raging  tide,  nor  lion,  nor  man. 

The  Bard  then  proceeds  to  name  a  number  of  weapons  and  accidents, 
against  which  he  prays  that  the  king  may  be  protected,  bringing  them 
together  without  any  other  order  than  such  as  will  suit  the  rhyme  and 
metre ;  as  the  falling  of  a  tower,  thunder,  dragons,  lightning,  serpent,  water, 
fire,  pole-axe,  knight's  lance,  poison,  staff,  arrow,  glaive,  sword,  rapier, 
horse's  hoof,  carriage  wheel,  rheumatism,  boil,  bow,  battle-axe,  flail,  or 
any  iron  weapon,  the  jaws  of  either  dog  or  wolf.  Irishman,  Jew,  Lombard, 
hostler,  arbalast,  stone  from  a  tower,  point  of  javelin,  leopard,  dart,  teeth 
of  monster,  boar,  horn  of  stag,  sorrow,  sickness,  or  any  other  death  ex- 
cepting that  of  old  age. 

The  Bard  goes  on  to  conmiit  the  king  to  the  guardianship  of  the  Saints, 
and  names  upwards  of  a  hundred,  almost  all  of  them  of  the  Welsh  Calon- 

1  Under  this  form  of  assurance,  the  Bard  Implies  a  fervid  utterance  of 
prayer,  together  with  a  retrospective  reference  to  his  successes. 

*  The  original  Uugom  is  formed  of  X/u,  a  ho$t^  and  com,  a  horn :  and  seems 
of  nearly  the  same  etymology  and  import  with  the  Gaelic  ẃgan,  a  war-erp. 


694 


POETRY. 


dar ;  and  concludes  by  saying,  that  he  should  be 
to  be  Lord  of  Richmond  and  of  Somerset,  an  h 
coloured  yestment,  a  renowned  Earl,  a  Duke  arr 
King,  Sovereign  of  the  West,  and  an  Emperor. 


AN  ODE  OF  EULOa 

Composed  by  Gytto'r  Glyn,  who  flour 
Davydd  Llwyd  of  Kedewain,  for  the  Eisted 
the  Bards  at  his  own  house,  on  the  high  fes 
copied  from  the  book  of  Mr.  Davies,  of  Pen 

[This  composition  is  one  of  those  adduced  in 
of  the  alleged  ancient  British  Alphabet,  called  ( 
is  maintained  that  the  repeated  mention  of  vxxh 
the  allusions  to  the  felling  of  trees,  are  utterly  ur 
referring  to  the  cutting  of  letters  upon  wood,  in 
upon  the  billets  of  the  Coelbren.] 


Davydd!  the  Bards  are  coming. 
All  the  minstrels  with  come  to  thy  hous( 
Davydd,  son  of  Davydd  my  chief. 
Well  hast  thou  distributed,  thou  great-g 
Diligently  do  the  Bards  seek  thee, 
Davydd  Llwyd,  who  withholdest  not  the 
Fair  residence  of  the  venerable  beloved  c 
Whilst  thou  existest  thou  art  a  town  of 
A  dwelling  thou  hast  surrounded  by  sim 
On  the  fair  brow  of  the  vale  of  Towyn  is 
The  edifices  of  St.  David'^s  are  those  of  tl 
Or  the  Zion  of  the  island  is  there. 
The  Island  of  the  Saints,  or  St.  James'^s, 
The  Hospitium  of  the  Nightingale  of  Bei 
The  object  of  pilgrimage  for  every  distric 
Thou  Pope  of  Rome,  of  Kedewain  region 
Thou  art  a  second  Cadell  Deymllwg, 
Powerful,  to  protect  us  all. 
Like  the  faithful  sanctuary  cross  of  Keri, 
The  lord  of  Kedewain  will  protect  us. 
Thou  hast  not  fled,  thou  wilt  not  retire, 


POETRY.  G95 

To  spare  expense  of  the  costly  world. 

Thou  maintainest  thy  house,  thou  venerable  generous  one, 

And  distributest  goods  to  the  deserving. 

Should  a  King  arrive,  thou  Pope  of  the  island. 

And  come  into  thy  country,  he  would  go  to  thy  court. 

Every  minstrel,  every  stout  traveller. 

All  come  to  thee,  every  one  to  his  lodging ; 

Every  poor  man  even  as  far  as  Glamorgan, 

Every  simple  person,  as  if  he  were  the  Pope  or  Sir  Foulk.^ 

Every  mouth — all  have  sung 

Long  life  to  thee,  and  that  was  a  pleasant  thing. 

As  abundant  as  is  the  poetry, 

So  much  the  more  difficult  is  it  to  find  wood  for  the  song. 

And  we  possessed  for  poetry 

Wood  for  a  season,  if  Gwilym  would  permit. 

There  are  tvco  edges  to  each  tongue. 

To  cut  the  woody  the  oaks  of  verse. 

The  men  of  genius  are  hewing 

Their  verse  up  yonder,  out  of  the  wood  of  the  hill, 

So  that  there  will  not  be  found,  for  a  while. 

The  materials  of  a  poem  out  of  the  wood. 

The  wood  h€U  gone  into  thy  poems. 

And  the  forest  will  not  long  endure. 

There  are  two  with  poems  for  you. 

Exercising  themselves  in  metro ; 

SwRDWAL,  the  energetic  carpenter  of  accurate  terse. 

Felling  trees  to  form  a  song. 

Llawdden,  with  his  axe, 

Will  not  leave  wood  materials,  wherever  he  comes  ; 

Extensive  is  the  work  of  his  craft. 

The  felling  of  trees  for  the  keys  of  verse. 

Two  are  they  who,  if  allowed. 

Will  not  leave  wood  in  the  country  ; 

Few  are  the  trees  on  the  hill  top 

That  remain  after  them,  as  refuse. 

Hewing  a  poem,  renewing  wood. 

Not  of  weak  hazel,  nor  of  thorn  bushes. 

Commencing  the  verse,  squaring  the  wood. 

Am  I  still  doing  for  thee,  Davydd. 

>  Sir  Foulk  de  Warren,  Viscount  of  Cardiff. 


696 


POETRY. 


In  the  top  of  the  spreading  oak  of  three  h 
There  is  room  to  set  my  cuce  at  work. 
Should  the  woods  of  record  be  exhausted, 
Davydd,  thou  art  wood  of  the  dwelling  of 
The  best  material  art  thou,  Davydd ; 
The  wood  of  ode  and  oipoem  thou  art. 
Thou  art  the  wood,  the  material  of  the  h( 
The  support  of  activity  in  the  directing  c 
The  rafter  of  our  language,  and  its  roof  o 
Its  gable  beam,  and  its  staunch  joist. 
A  straight  grown  pillar  of  Einion  have  w 
With  a  strong  sound  core,  from  Qwilym. 
The  stately  oak  of  Eeri,  fair  and  venerai 
The  roofing  tree  of  the  beloved  Eedewain 
The  home  which  need  not  be  avoided. 
And  the  payment-table  of  the  Bards  art ' 
Ivor  of  the  mansion  of  the  free  table: 
There  is  no  true  Ivor  but  Davydd.* 
Happy  man  on  the  banks  of  Severn ; 
Hapless  our  lot,  were  we  deprived  of  him 

ELEGY  ON  LLAWDDEN  THI 

By  lorwerth  Vynglwyd,  who  flourished  in 
fifteenth  century ;  as  did  Llawdden,  the  e 

[This  poem  is,  like  the  foregoing,  referred  to  ; 
Coelbren  y  Beirdd  Alphabet.] 

Alas  for  Llawdden  this  present  year ! 
O  sad  event  for  genius,  and  woe  to  our  B 
The  chief  oak  of  poetry  is  felled. 
And  the  strength  of  Bardism  of  all  Ghrisi 
Fallen  is  the  constructor  of  song,  of  eloqn 
The  forming  of  the  golden  verse,  who  hen< 
Fallen  is  the  chief  of  song,  of  poetic  expn 
'  Vigorous  was  it  whilst  he  gave  it  animati 
A  Bard  was  he— no  dreamer. 
Bapid  in  his  verse,  and  powerful  was  he, 

1  This  refers  to  Ivor  Hael^  the  Mecsnas  of  the  I 


POETRY.  GO 7 

A  Tydaîn  Tad  Awen,  wise  and  good; 
A  Taliesin  of  the  race  of  Asia. 
He  restored  the  real  intent 
And  true  spirit  of  our  country'^s  verse. 
He  restored  its  extensive  science — 
A  conspicuous  friend  of  song  and  oration. 
The  man  who  bore  the  axe^ 
Eminent  was  he  found  with  his  sagacious  mind. 
The  man  who  excelled  in  composition, 
Who  was  seen  as  the  winner  of  two  chairs ; 
The  gold  chair  of  Caermarthen,  of  undisparaged  learning, 
Did  the  lover  of  knowledge  possess. 
Another  chair  became  him, 
And  he  received  the  dignity  of  Gwynedd. 
And  the  golden  axe  of  Glamorgan,  where  wines  are  found. 
Did  he  of  the  superior  mind  obtain. 
Behold  a  Bard  abounding  in  learning. 
Great  was  Llawddcn  amongst  us ; 
He  arranged  the  RoU^  whilst,  thus  distinguished 
By  true  proof,  he  was  our  chief  Bard. 
The  BoU  of  styles  and  metres,  that  belong 
To  the  apt-language  work  of  the  Poet. 
The  Roll  of  genealogies,  which  was  too  obscure 
In  its  arrangement  before  he  set  it  in  order. 
The  Boll  of  the  Statute — not  mute  was  the  applause 
^\llich  he  altogether  gained  by  that. 
The  successful  Boll  of  science, 
And  of  general  exercise  of  knowledge. 
Who  so  gracefully  sings  to  the  blithesome  woods. 
With  their  gay  and  blooming  aspect! 
Who  sings  of  love  to  the  slender  maiden, 
And  so  skilfully  composes  eulogy  to  the  hero ! 
Who,  upon  woody  has  any  such  scientific  song ! 
Who  equal  to  him  in  the  CoelŷcUnef 
Who  can  hew  a  $ong  so  smooth, 
For  conveying  eulogy,  as  this  gentle  person  ? 
An  axe  he  possessed,  through  his  own  understanding. 
One  that  wrought  beneficially  in  his  hand ; 
And  its  marked  (vigorous  was  its  progress,) 
Upon  the  composition  of  verse  are  they  found. 
He  would  gently  and  wisely  hett 

4ü 


698 


POETRY. 


With  his  skilful  hand  his  elegant  sony. 
Upon  the  wood^  clear  tokens  would  he  j 
With  this  \axe\  in  straight  forward  pr 
He  would  place  in  his  verse  something 
That  might  exist,  in  the  mark  of  his  ax 
And  he  would  hew  mth  this  the  allitera 
Like  an  eminent  Chief  Bard. 
Everywhere  there  is  evidently  seen 
Its  own  identical  mark  in  our  country. 
In  every  song,  its  object  was 
To  give  certainty,  and  to  excel. 
Warranted  to  every  living  man 
Are  the  purtenances  of  his  science. 
In  every  alliteration,  I  assert, 
Shall  be  found  the  truth  and  the  systei 
In  every  metre,  correct  is  the  judgmen 
The  true  blending  of  accurate  versificat 
As  to  the  construction  of  the  metres, 
There  are  scarcely  more  than  two 
Like  him  acquainted  with  it  in  its  thoi 
He  renewed  the  style  of  its  hewing^ 
He  knew  the  number  of  the  achieveme 
All  the  Bolls  of  the  science  of  the  Bar 
Every  oflSce  and  every  system^ 
And  the  entire  occupation  of  a  master 
A  master  was  he  of  ancient  genius  dee 
Inspired  was  he  in  his  learning; 
He  would  instruct  a  disciple 
In  his  full  undertakings  and  well  woul 
A  Grammar  did  he  present  to  men ; 
An  energetic  talent  did  God  bestow  oi 
To  present  a  true  and  wise  improveme 
In  the  work  of  poetry  was  his  intent. 
To  give  the  true  meaning  and  constru< 
To  language  and  its  metre,  the  golden 
And  the  smooth  Boll,  with  order  and  ; 
And  much  learning  at  Gaermarthen. 
To  present  a  Boll  against  the  mottled 
Of  vagrant  minstrels,  was  a  great  acco 
Faultless  ordinances  are  they 
Of  Bhys  ap  Tewdwr,  a  worthy  man  of 


POETRY.  669 

And  the  Roll  of  Arthur,  the  well-esteemed, 

And  likewise  good  and  valiant. 

My  preceptor  he  was,  who  gained  the  applause 

For  the  attainment  of  youthful  knowledge. 

And  for  the  sciences ;  a  happy  man. 

Who  understood  all  the  practice  of  the  versifier. 

Woe,  painful  and  acute! — alas!  the  mournful  hour  ! 

To  the  man  who  esteemed  him — ^the  son  of 

Grufydd  ap  Nicholas,  with  his  race 

And  family,  who  so  greatly  bewail  him. 

In  our  generation,  who  shall  be  found  to  regulate 

The  Courts  of  the  Eisteddvods  Î 

After  Llawdden'^s  departure,  blind  are  the  Bards 

To-day,  because  he  no  longer  lives, 

The  one  who  gave  them  complete  instruction 

In  the  works  of  literature,  with  perfect  genius. 

He  is  in  the  grave ;  woe  to  us  this  day ; 

And  his  like  is  not  seen  alive. 

Llawdden,  with  his  sage  countenance. 

Has  assumed  the  aspect  of  the  ignorant ! 

Gone  to  the  churchvard  is  the  chief  counsellor. 

A  hundred  whom  he  has  left  greatly  lament  him. 

Alas !     In  the  vale  of  Llychwr, 

In  the  grave  does  he  lie, 

In  yonder  cold  habitation  of  the  tomb. 

The  sepulchre  of  his  kindred  at  Llandeilaw ; 

And  his  soul  went  direct 

To  heaven,  in  peace,  to  the  plenteous  feast. 

And  there,  still  a  Bard,  with  his  everlasting  song 

Worshipping  God  without  disguise ; 

Whilst  I  here,  fixt  like  the  marble  statue. 

Bewail  my  preceptor  in  a  sea  of  tears. 

The  same  lorwerth  Vynglwyd,  when  visiting  the  grave  of 
Llawdden  in  the  Churchyard  of  Llandilo  Talybont,  composed 
the  following  Verse: — 

Llawdden  with  his  bright  inspiration  has  ceased. 
Who  henceforth  shall  instruct  us  { 
Beneath  the  ground  is  his  abode ; 
Obscured  is  our  language — dark  night  is  come  ! 


700 


POETRY. 


A  POEM  TO  REQUEST  A  FISHING  NE 

TION  OF  IT. 

By  Meredydd  ap  Rhys,  aW 

Ivan,  prudent  one,  within  his  day 
The  best  in  disposition  and  in  piety, 
A  chieftain  unequalled  in  stature, 
A  princely  person  like  his  father  Tu< 
Of  upright  form,  of  lion  temper, 
With  the  hand  of  Nudd  the  Generou 
Descendant  and  generous  heir. 
And  of  equal  privilege  with  Heilin  ^ 
Neither  Prince  nor  Baron 
Was  ever  so  generous  as  this  Gambr 
A  good  man,  and  bold  upon  thy  chai 
Art  thou,  thou  lion  of  the  blood  of  I 
Good  is  thy  aspect,  thou  man  of  read 
Good  thy  strength,  if  I  know  thee,  r 
Thy  graciousness  resembles  that  of  J 
Thy  learning  like  that  of  David  the 
Of  vast  learning  in  the  sciences  of  M 
The  two  profound  laws*  are  on  thy  li 
In  disputation,  no  eloquent  portion  i 
Excepting  what  comes  from  thy  mov 
Valiant  in  the  fight  art  thou, 
And  a  Saint  in  the  Ohurch. 
An  unambitious  lamb  in  the  tavern, 
A  teacher  of  the  proud  by  giving  ju( 
A  bold  man  in  the  day  of  meeting, 
An  Ivor  in  Llanufydd. 
All  know  that  you,  Ivor, 
Possess  a  wise  tongue  and  wealth. 
Long  may  this  truth  continue,  chiefl 
Of  your  power. — My  complaint  to  y 
That  I  hunt  the  windings  of  the  rive 
With  a  broken  tattered  net ; 


1  Civil  and  Canon. 


POETRY.  701 

Gaziug  on  the  fishes  of  the  source  of  Aluu, 

I  watch  for  them  without  catching  one. 

Eminent  chieftain,  I  declare  to  thee, 

That  sorrowful  is  Meredydd  for  a  net. 

With  his  experience,  more  pleasant  to  the  son  of  Rhys 

The  extent  of  the  water  than  the  tangled  land. 

Quickly  will  I  go  to  the  river, 

Should  I  have  the  summer  to  search  it. 

And  once  to  gain  its  banks, 

And  have  a  net  from  the  liberal  nobleman. 

There  is  a  large  and  handsome  lordly  net 

In  your  possession,  generous  Ivan. 

If  I  shall  receive  a  gift,  I  desire 

This  net,  and  request  it  of  you. 

In  the  resort  of  trouts,  should  it  be  granted. 

Betwixt  two  men  shall  it  be  drawn  to  land. 

Its  two  staves  are  its  support. 

With  its  skilful  workmanship,  and  its  two  lines; 

And  its  polished  lead  at  the  bottom. 

Throughout  its  length  to  weigh  it  down. 

Above  is  its  handsome  swelling  bosom ; 

Below,  its  expanded  hempen  covering. 

A  fair  web  to  enrich  a  person, 

Beautiful  as  the  bees*^  honeycomb. 

It  will  combat  the  water,  beating  against  its  lines, 

Amidst  the  foaming  of  Aberceunant. 

A  hauberk,^  of  the  work  of  a  strong  hand, 

With  its  loose  flowing  slieve  trailing  after  it. 

The  water  will  be  beautifully  divided  by  it ; 

Unobstructedly  will  it  pass  through  it. 

Through  the  water,  thy  net,  Ivan, 


1  ThÌB  is  not  the  only  old  Welsh  composition  in  which  a  comparison  ia 
made  betwixt  the  links  of  the  hauberk  and  the  meshes  of  a  fishing-net ;  as 
in  a  work  of  a  prior  age,  an  archer  of  a  somewhat  eccentric  character  is  told 
that  some  robber  wul  come  and  ride  away  with  his  horse,  which  is  grazing  in 
an  adjacent  meadow  ;  upon  which  the  bold  and  reckless  humourist  speaks  of 
the  possibility  of  his  being  liimself  at  the  time -on  the  hill  slope  opposite,  with 
a  good  yew  bow  in  his  hand,  and  on  arrow  that  would  draw  blood  out  of  a 
weathercock,  when  he  would  shoot  him  such  a  shot,  so  low  and  sharp  and 
long-drawn,  tliat  he  would  bo  no  better  protected  by  a  breastplate  and  Milan 
liauberk,  tlian  l»y  a  whisp  of  fom,  or  a  kerring-net. 


702 


POETRY. 


Will  reach,  when  extended,  from  shon 
A  vast  advantage  will  be  to  me  in  Leu 
To  possess  a  net  and  watch  the  fords. 
And  to  receive  it  as  a  gift  from  you.— 
And  here  is  presented  to  you  a  poem  f 


A  POEM  TO  RETURN  THANKS  I 

What  man  am  I,  whilst  I  remain  in  I 
As  a  fisherman  who  more  active! 
With  a  thousand  of  the  fishes  of  Mael 
On  my  table,  a  mighty  number ! 
Every  body  will  be  there,  each  Thursc 
Looking  for  their  Friday'^s  provision. 
I  will  catch  on  Christmas  eve. 
Why  should  a  meagre  day  be  worse  ii 
Success  to  the  festivals. 
Good  luck  to  the  calculating  of  Shrovei 
Why  does  not  Lent  arrive. 
In  order  that  the  vigils  may  commence 
That  I  may  fully  provide  the  househol 
With  the  ample  net  which  was  given  t 
Briskly  will  I  drag  the  sweeper 
In  its  capturing  course  after  the  fry. 
Small  and  large,  most  decidedly. 
Will  be  taken  in  this  precious  net. 
Who  presented  it, — such  a  lucky  gift  Í 
A  chieftain — and  who  but  Ivan, 
Son  of  Tudur,  son  of  Grufydd  Llwyd, 
Of  the  race  of  Heilyn  Vrych, 
And  his  hand  like  that  of  Brochwel  Î 
There  is  the  youth,  and  his  description 
How  he  sprung — a  courteous  man. 
Noble  is  the  root  from  which  he  grew, 
A  root  which  will  maintain  its  right. 
Gwalchmai^  is  he  called  by  those  who  1 
A  dauntless  man  in  the  opening  of  bat 


*  G  walchmai  was  one  of  Arthur's  Knights — the  "  ; 


POETRY.  7(>3 

Is  ho^  and  a  buttress  to  his  king. 

A  man  in  need  truly  honourable ; 

Strong  is  his  hand  on  lanco  and  sword. 

On  the  day  of  strife  he  knows  how  to  arbitrate, 

And  in  the  contest  he  excels. 

A  hunter  is  the  man  I  esteem ; 

A  long  life  to  the  eloquent  one. 

Let  Ivan,  of  the  fair  growth, 

Hunt  on  his  fair  land,  his  father^s  domain. 

In  a  good  hour,  I  also  on  the  water, 

Through  bounteous  means,  will  be  a  hunter. 

Madoc^  the  bold,  of  amplified  prospect. 

The  true  offspring  of  Owen  Gwynedd, 

Would  not  have  land — my  soul  was  he^ 

Nor  any  wealth  except  the  seas. 

Madoc  am  I,  who  throughout  my  life  will  seek. 

Upon  the  seas,  that  which  I  have  been  used  to. 

T  will  walk  by  sea  and  river. 

Along  their  strand  with  my  encircling  net. 

Better  is  to  be  the  wife  of  a  fisherman, 

Than  of  one  who  would  not  seek  the  water. 

I  This  passage  has  been  quoted  in  confirmation  of  the  alleged  voyage  of 
Madoc  to  America  in  the  twelfth  century.  The  passage  in  itself  contains  no 
more  than  an  intimation  of  Madoc's  preferring  the  sea  to  living  on  land,  but 
when  joined  to  the  history  given  by  Gyttyn  Owain,  it  assumes  some  degree 
of  importance.  The  account  given  by  this  writer,  according  to  Powel,  states 
that  Madoc,  being  weary  of  the  perpetual  contentions  of  his  brothers,  after 
their  father's  death,  provided  two  ships,  in  which  he  and  his  companions  lefl 
the  country,  and  sailed  away  towards  the  west,  keeping  Ireland  to  the  nortli- 
ward,  till  at  last  they  came  to  an  unknown  country.  Here  he  left  the  great- 
est number  of  his  companions  and  returned  to  Wales,  when  he  again  col- 
lected a  lar^e  number  of  persons,  of  both  sexes,  who  like  himself  were  de- 
sirous of  escaping  from  the  turmoils  of  civil  war,  and  with  them  he  sailed  away 
with  ten  sen  ships  in  the  same  direction  as  before,  and  was  never  more  heaid 
of.«-Now,  in  default  of  more  ancient  evidence,  the  credibility  of  this  story 
mainly  rests  upon  the  time  it  was  promulgated.  Columbus  made  his  first 
voyage  in  1492  and  returned  in  1493.  Gyttyn  Owatn  is  said  to  have  written 
between  14G0  and  1490.  Should  the  last  date  be  correct  as  to  the  limit  of 
his  writing,  it  is  impossible  that  his  account  of  Madoc's  voyage  can  be  a 
fabrication,  suggested  by  that  of  Columbus.  But  should  the  account  have 
been  penned  after  the  return  of  Columbus,  there  is  much  to  justify  suspicion. 
Until  some  further  evidence  is  discovered  respecting  the  exact  time  of  Gyttyn 
0 wain's  writing  this  account,  or  the  sources  from  which  he  derivi'd  his  iu- 
fonnation,  the  question  must  remain  undecided. — See  "Ilanes  Cymni." 


704  POETRY. 

St.  Peter,  the  mighty  man,  it  was  his 
To  be  a  fisherman ;  most  excellent  ws 
To  the  same  pursuit  will  I  go : 
No  more  than  Peter  will  I  desist. 


A  POEM, 

By  GyttoV  Glynn,  to  Tryhaearn  ap  leu; 
Gam,  of  Waunllwg,  to  request  the  loai 
Abbot  of  Valle  Crucis. 

[The  Greal  is  one  of  the  Romances  of  the  Re 
the  Welsh  language.  The  meaning  of  the  w< 
dispute.  Some  maintain  that  Graal  means  a  c\ 
fcrs  to  that  used  at  the  last  Supper,  and  thence 
Holy  Vessel,  Others  suppose  the  word  was  or 
called  from  its  containing  the  sacred  blood  s 
was  the  search  for  this  vessel  by  Arthur's  ] 
subject  of  the  Romance  which  the  Abbot  so  mi 
to  borrow  which  he  sent  all  the  way  fix)m  Yale 

The  ages  of  three  men  be  to  thee,  1 
Patron  of  the  Bards  in  giving  judgi 
Son  of  leuan,  the  chief  of  Penrhôs, 
The  son  of  Meyric,  the  object  of  mj 
The  second  from  Howel  Gam, 
And  the  third  of  the  race  of  Adam, 
A  royal  race,  of  the  kingly  stock 
Of  Cynvyn  and  Bleddyn  and  Blaid 
Is  thy  lineage,  from  the  Usk  to  the 
The  kindred  is  of  South  and  North 
Noble  is  thy  blood,  Tryhaearn ; 
May  thy  end  in  this  world  be  the  I 
Strong  as  the  yoked  ox  has  thy  fan 
Traversed  the  Gwents  and  the  Soui 
The  eye  of  Gwaunllwg  art  thou  ent: 
The  hand  and  the  book  of  the  othei 
The  ofi*erings  of  science  hast  thou 
Truly  distributed,  as  Arthur  did. 

*  The  father  of  Ilowel. 


POETRY.  705 

Tho  hand  of  Nudd  to  Gaerlleon  wast  thou, 

And  its  people  assemble  where  thou  art. 

The  mouth  of  learning  of  the  Glamorgan  Bards ; 

The  mouth  of  literature  of  the  land  of  Gwaunllwg. 

The  mouth  of  all  the  excellencies  of  Gwynedd, 

From  Edeymion  to  the  land  of  Neath. 

And  the  skilful  tongue  of  our  language ; 

The  father  who  cherishes  it,  art  thou  that  knowest  it. 

Let  us  go  to  thy  court,  there  shall  we  find  thee, 

At  Hayreford,  like  in  a  high  fair. 

Eight  hundred  thousand  extol  thee. 

From  Aberfraw  to  the  vale  of  Pembroke. 

Well  art  thou^  styled  the  wise  countenance 

Of  all  the  sciences  of  Dy  ved, 

From  the  fair  harbour  where  boils  the  wave 

Of  Daugleddau,^  to  Caledonia. 

One  of  the  heroes  of  Earl  Herbert  of  Narberth 

Art  thou,  and  his  lance  and  his  might, 

Possessing  a  name  above  that 

In  the  dwelling  of  thy  own  eight  territories  ;^ 

The  name  of  teacher  and  director  of  every  learning. 

In  a  measure  like  unto  the  name  of  Moses. 

The  Abbot  of  Valle  Crucis  will  make  our  land 
Altogether  one  entire  feast ; 
At  his  own  charge  shall  wine  and  moat  be  free, 
For  the  entertainment  of  you  and  Davydd,^ 
In  the  same  manner  as  thou  in  the  Dwyallt, 
Excepting  his  vestments  and  his  tonsure. 
Like  as  all  Cambrians  assemble  in  thy  house. 
From  all  tho  Gwents,  so  shall  it  be  with  him. 
He  by  his  Order  is  distinguished, 
You  by  the  sciences  of  the  world. 
All  Gwynedd  shall  assemble  here, 
Like  as  the  eight  districts  of  Gwent  at  thy  fair  mansion. 

The  sciences  and  endowments  of  knowledge 
Assuredly  does  Davydd  love. 
For  one  book  he  does  call  out 
That  he  loves  more  than  gold  and  gems, 


>  Milford  Haven.  ^-  Of  Gwent.  »  The  Abbot  of  Valle  Crucis. 

4  X 


706  POETRY. 

And  implores  you  to  send 
The  goodly  Grëal  to  this  land. 
The  Book  of  the  Blood — ^the  book 
Where  they  fell  in  the  court  of  Ai 
The  book  of  the  renowned  knights 
The  book  of  the  fair  order  of  the  B 
A  book  still  in  the  Briton''s  hand  ; 
The  race  of  Horsa  could  not  read 
The  loan  of  this  does  Davydd,  Pri 
Request  from  the  bountiful  Ivor. 
The  kingly  book,  which  should  the 
He  would  be  content  to  live  witho 
The  holy  monks  also  do  desire  to  1 
The  sacred  Grëal  in  yonder  land  o 
Nevertheless  it  will  not  tarry  ther 
Prom  the  land  of  Yale  it  will  retu 
Your  old  blind  Gytto,  he  and  his 
Will  be  your  surety  for  its  return. 
And  gracious  Providence,  as  from  1 
Will  doubtless  grant  thee  thy  rev 


A  POEM,  TO  REQUEST  THE  GREAI 
GLYN  NEATH.5 

[By  Black  leuan  of  the  Bilhook,  a  Bard  win 

1460  to  1Ö00.] 

The  venerable  man  of  Glyn  Neath 
With  the  truthful  book  which  he 
Who  transferred  into  two  words  o 
All  the  eloquence  of  the  world  at  1 


1  The  Greal,  being  in  the  Welsh  language, 
Englishman. 

2  According  to  Anthony  Powel,  he  was  Lewii 
of  Davydd  Ddu  Offeiriad  of  Glyn  Neath,  who  t 
Virgin  Mary  into  Welsh.— It  may  be  observed 
Archaiology  there  is  a  Welsh  translation  of  th 
Davydd  Ddu  Hiraddug,  a  Bard  who  flourished  1: 


POETRY.  707 

Seveu  sciences  do  we  recognise  ; 

The  whole  seven  are  in  his  bosom. 

Grammar,  he  is  as  firm  as  the  faith. 

With  the  strength  of  forty  grammarians. 

In  Art,  ho  is  fully  matured ; 

In  Civil  Law,  he  is  a  perfect  surety ; 

In  Sophistry,  he  brightly  effervesces  ; 

In  Music,  he  has  no  limit. 

There  is  no  one  scholar,  nor  even  two 

In  the  world  of  equal  knowledge. 

Learning  is  in  his'possession ; 

He  is  also,  if  required,  a  mirror  to  distant  countries. 

He  would  determine  every  disputation. 

Precious  is  his  judgment ;  solid  is  his  sentence  ; 

In  purity  like  the  Pope^s,  of  ancient  pure  descent, 

Superior  to  Oxford  and  its  devices. 

His  brethren^  were  casting  him  off; 

His  brother  was  his  betrayer. 

When  he  went  across  the  coast. 

In  the  company,  to  king  Pharaoh, 

The  choisest  son  of  Adam  was  he, 

A  dreamer  likewise,  and  a  Bard. 

Affectionate  and  comely  was  the  stripling, 

Joseph,  of  the  sons  of  Israel, 

Not  of  the  Saxons. 

Ho  of  happy  disposition. 

When  in  the  fields,  says  the  book  of  Moses, 

Saw  the  sun,  together  with  the  moon. 

All  during  the  day; 

And  also  the  stars,  which  with  the  moon 

Did  worship  the  chosen  seed. 

The  ploughland  did  the  king  cultivate. 

Hill  and  valley,  mound  and  boundary. 

Sometime  after,  being  still  possessed  of  wisdom, 

There  came  a  scarcity  of  stacks  of  com ; 

And  the  sowing  of  Joseph  supplied 

With  abundance  of  corn  without  delavinir. 


Why  this  allusion  to  Joseph  is  introduced,  does  uot  appear. 


708  POETRY. 

Let  this  book  therefore  be  courteously  sent 
To  us  from  the  Court  of  Neath  by  the  worthy  Lewis, 
Who  is  exemplary  in  rebuking  the  ungodly. 
And  of  true  propriety  in  prayer  to  God. 
And  if  I  shall  obtain  from  Davydd'^s  son 
The  book  of  the  Grëal  without  delay. 
And  readily  against  Lent, 

Its  proud  leaves  will  be  worth  its  weight  [in  gold.] 
We  will  observe  the  supreme  law  of  St.  Gregory, 
We  shall  have  Matins  in  the  Choir, 
And  after  Vespers  manifold  mil  be 
The  uttering  of  praise  to  Mary. 
Pleased  is  the  bountiful  Gt)d  with  the  inspired  song^ 
The  glorious  chant  with  the  organ^'s  tone. 
Mounds  of  books  will  cheerfully  be  given. 
By  the  pleasant-speaking  son  of  Bhyrid, 
And  the  chieftain,  more  learned  than  even  his  father, 
Shall  receive  a  token  of  my  esteem. 
Daily  shall  I  betake  me  to  my  song. 
To  chant  for  his  soul. 
Out  of  the  choirs  will  the  Friend  bestow. 
Who  rescues  man  from  the  deep  waters. 
His  gift  to  save  from  suflFering — 
A  golden  jewel  that  will  lead  to  heaven. 


SUBSCRIBERS 


TO  TH> 


lolo  inamtôoriptö* 


Ablr,  Joseph,  Esq.  LUnbedr  Hall 
Ainsley,  Bfn.  Robert,  Cuxliff 
AUeo,  T.,  Esq.  Freestone,  Pembrokeshire 
Andrews,  Rev.  Evan,  B.A.  Dolgolley 
Anthony,  Mr.  William,  Bíaestèg 
Asaph,  The  Rt.  Rev.  the  Lord  Bishop  of  St 
Ashley,  The  Right  Hon.  Lord,  M.P.,  &c. 
Athenaom^Library,  Liverpool 
Aubrey,  Mr.  O.  D.,  Festiniog,  2  copies 
Ballard,  Thomas  T.,  Esq.  Gowbridge 
Bangor,  The  Right  Rev.  the  Lord  Bishop  of 
Bennion,  E.  D.,  Esq.Summerhill,  Oswestiy 
Berrington,  J.  D.,  Esq.  Woodlands  Castle 
Bhuikwell,  K.,Esq.  Rossel  Hall  Lron  Works 
Bonsall,  Rev.  Isaac,  Llanwrin  Rectory 
Booker,  T.  W. ,  Esq.  Yelindra,  Cardiff 
Bosanqnet,  S.  B.,  Esq.  Dingestow  Conrt 
Botfleld,  a,  Esq.,  M.P.,  &o.  Norton  Hall 
Bowen,  Mr.  Benjamin,  Cardiff 
Bowen,  Mr.D.  «Chronometer  Maker,  Alfreton 
Bowen,  Rev.  Thomas,  Thiitleboon,  Swansea 
Brewer,  T.  L.,  Esq.  Coalbrook  Vale 
Brigstocke,  W.  O.,  Esq.  Blaenpant 
Bristol  Libraiy  Society 
Brown,Rev.  J.  Jones,  Llandanwg,  Harlech 
Bruce,  H.  A.,  Esquire,  Dyfihyn  Pennar 
Bute,  The  Most  Hon.  the  Marquess  of,  2  oo. 
Butler,  John,  Esq.  Caerleon 
Campbell,  Rev.  J.  C,  Merthyr  l^dvil 
Carbeiy,  The  Right  Hon.  Lord,CastleFreke 
Cawdor,  The  Right  Hon.  the  Earl  of,  2  co. 
Chambers,  William,  Esq.  Llanelly  House 
Charles,  Rev.  David,  B. A  ,  Trefecca  College 
Cliflb,  C.  P.,  Esq.  Cheltenham 
Clifford,  William,  Esq.  Perristonc,  Ross 
Clarke,  Rev.  L.  Q.,  Kinnersley  Rectory 
CofBn,  Walter,  Esq.  Llandaff 
Cole,  The  Lady  Mary  Lucy,  Lanelay 
Conybearo,  The  Very  Rev.  W.  D.,  Dean  of 

Llandaff 
Corrie,  Professor  Ë.  G.,  Cambridge 
Cotton,  The  Very  Rev.  J.  H.,  D.D.,  Dean 

of  Bangor 
Coward,  E.  J.,  Esq.  Trctowcr  Housi* 
Crawshay,  Francis,  Esq.  Trofforcet 
Crawshay,  R.  T.,  Esq.  CyCarthia  Costlc 
Cunliffc,  Sir  R.  H.,  Bart.  Acton  Park 
David,  Rev.  Edward,  B.C.L.,  Cardiff 
David,  Kvan,  Esq.  Fairwater  House,  Canliff 
David,  Mr.  William,  Llynfl  Iron  Worku 


Davies,  Arthur  Lloyd,  Esq.  BUendyfliryn 
Davies,  D.,  Esq.  15,  Wigmore  St  London 
Davies,  Rev.  D.,  A.M.,  Mamblo,  Bewdley 
Davies,  Ed.,  Esq.  Llangattock  Crickhowel 
Davies,  Mr.  Edward,  Bookseller,  Tredegar 
Davies,  Mr.  Evan,  Pontytỳpridd,  2  copies 
Davies,  Francis,  Esq.  Pershoro 
Davies,  James,  Esq.  Moor  Court,  Kington 
Davies,  Henry,  Esq.  Cheltenham 
Davies,  Rev.  Jenkin,  Mold 
Davies,  J.  M.,  Esq.  Antaron  Cottage 
Davies,  Joseph,  Esq.  Tý-isaf,  Bedwas 
Davies,  Owen,  Esq.  Tunbridgo 
Davies,  Rev.  S.,  M.A.,  Oystermouth. 
Davies,  Rev.  Timothy,  Deíÿnoc  Vicarage 
Davies,  Rev.  Thomas,  Vicarage,  Llangadock 
Davies,  Rev.  T.,  MA.,  Treléthyn 
Davies,  Rev.  Thomas,  M.A.,  Dyhewyd 
Davies,  W.,  Esq.  Min.  Agent,  LlynaWoi^s 
Davies,  Rev.  W.,  P.D.,  Froodvale  Academy 
Davison,  Dr.  S.  C,  Presb.  Coll.  Caormarthen 
Davys,  W.  CampbeU,  Esq.  Nenaddiawr 
Day,  Rev.  Chas.,  LL.B.  Mucking  Vicarage 
Dearden,  J.,  Esq.  F.S.A.,  Rochdale  Manor 
Dibb,  John  Edw.,  Esq.  Wakeueld 
DiU^Tn,  L.  W.,  Esq.  F.R.S.,  &c  Sketty  Hall 
Dinorben,  The  Right  Hon.  Lord,  2  copies 
Donne,  Miss  Hadsssah  Victoria,  Sawtrec 
Dynevur,  The  Right  Hon.  Lord,  3  copies 
Earle,  John,  Esq.,  aA.,Mag.  HaU,  Oxford 
Edwards,  Mr.  Edmond,  Llynfi  Iron  Works 
Edwards,  Rev.  Lewis,  M.A.,  Bala 
Edwards,  T.,  Esq.,  (CaavaUiecM,)  Islington 
Elliss,  John,  Esq.  Abeiystwyth 
Enoch,  Rev,  (George,  Cayo  Vicarage 
Evans,  Rev.  A.  B.,  D.D.,  Market  Boswortíi 
Evans,  C.  H.,  Esq.  Plasgwyn,  Anglesey 
Evans,  Rev.  D.,  B.D.,  Llanllwchaim  Rect. 
Evans,  D.  S.,  Esq.  Welsh  Lecturer,  S.  D.  C. 
Evans,  Ed.,  Esq.  Eyton  Hall,  Leominster 
Evans,  Mr.  Evan,  Caerphilly 
Evans,  Hugh  P.,  Esq.  Noyadd,  Rhayadir 
Evans,  Rev.  J.,  B.D.,  Llandough  Rectory 
Evans,  John,  Esq.  Dowlais 
Evans,  Rev.  John,  Llanover  Viearagv; 
Evans,  John,   Esq.  Lovt«  Grove,  Abvryst. 
Evans,  lie  v.  L.,  B.A.,  Llanflhangel  y  Crei- 
Evans,  Mr.  M.,  BookMller,  New])ort  [d<Iyfi 
Evans,  Picrct»,  Esq.  Aberystwyth 
Evans,  Rev.  R.  W..  M.A..  Tarvin 


710  SUBSCRIBERS  TO  THE  lOLO  MA 

Evans,  R.  Esq.  Rusholme,  MancheBter  Hughes,  J, 
Evans,  Rev.  Richard,  M.A.,  Mai-gam  Hughes,  J. 
Evans,  Rev.  Stephen,  Llanddowror  Hughes,  J, 
Evans,  Thomas,  Esq.  Solicitor,  Cardiff  Hughes,  R 
Evans,  Rev.  T.,  Kingswood,  Birmingham  Hughes,  R 
Evans,  Rev.  Thomas,  Maesgwyn  Hntchins, 
Evans,  Rev.  William,  Usk,  Monmouthshire    James,  C.  I 
Evans,  Rev.  W.  Sloane,  K.C.T.  Barnstaple    James,  Re^ 
Eyton,  J.  W.  King,  Esq.  Elgin  Villa,  2  co.  James,  Re^ 
Farmer,  George,  E^.  Cardiff  James,  J., 
Fenton,  John,  Esq.  Glynamel,  Fishguard  James,  Jot 
Fielding,  Viscoimt,  Downing,  Holywell  James,  Ric 
Foulkes,  Rev.  Dr.,  Principal  of  Jes.  Coll.  Ox.  James,  Re' 
Francis,  J.  O.,  Esq.,  F.S.A.,  Cor.  Mem.  8.  Jeffreys,  R 
A.  Scot,  Burrows  Lodge,  Swansea  Jenkins,  D 
Ghumett,  Rev.  R.,  M.A.,  So.^  Brit  Museimi  Jenkins,  R 
Gilbertson,  Rev.  Lewis,  M.A.  Llangorwen  Jenkins,  R 
Glynne,  Sir  S.  R.,   Bart,  M.P.,   F.S.A.,  Jenkins,  J. 
Hawarden  Castle  Jenkins,  O 
Green,  Rev.  G.  Wade,  M.A.,  Court  Heniy  Jenkins,  R 
Griffiths,  Rev.  Heniy,  Brecon  College  Jenkins,  R 
Griffiths,  H.  D.,  Esq.  Caer  Rhùn,  Conway  Jenkins,  R 
Griffiths,  Rev.  James,  Llangynnor  Jenkins,  M 
Griffiths,  John,  M.  A.,  Vicar  of  Aberdare  Jenner,  Mi 
Griffiths,  Lewis,  Esq.  Ynysygerwn,  Neath  Johnes,  Ar 
Griffiths,  Thomas,  EÌsq.  Trefalyn  Hall  Johnes,  Jol 
Griffiths,  T.  Digby  Aubrey,  Esq.  Bridgend  Jones,  Mr. 
Griffiths,  Rev.  Walter,  Aberpergwm  Jones,  The 
Griffiths,  W.,  Esq.  Lower  Berkdey  st  Lon.  Jones,  Rev 
Griffiths,  W.  H.,  Esq.           ditto  Jones,  Ben- 
Griffiths,  W.,  Esq.  Standish,  Lancashire  Jones,  Cap 
Gore,  W.  Ormsby,  Esq.,  M.P.,  Porkington  Jones,  Dav 
Guest,  Edwin,  Esq.,  F.R.S.,  Temple,  Lon.  Jones,  D.,  ] 
Guest,  Sir  J.  John,  Bart,M.P.,  &c.  2  copies  Jones,  Rev 
Oulston,  A.  J.,  Esq.,  Llwynyberllan  Jones,  F.  J 
Guntor,  J.,  Esq.,  Colehill  House,  Fullham  Jones,  Rev. 
Gumey,  Hudson,  Esq.,  F.S.A.,  &c.  London  Jones,  Rev. 
Gwyn,  Howel,  Esq.,  M.P.,  Baglan  House  Jones,  H.,  : 
Gwynne,  Capt  Alban  Lewis,  Monachty  Jones,  Rev. 
G Wynne,  Rev.  R  LI  A.,  St  Paul's,  Tipton  Jones,  Rev. 
Gwynne,  John,  Esq.  Gwemvale  House  Jones,  J.  A 
Gwynne,  Marmaduke,E8q.  Llanelwedd  Hall  Jones,  Rev. 
Gwynne,  W.  Cust,  M.D.,  Sandbach  Jones,  Jam' 
Hall,  Sir  B.,  Bart,  M.P.,  Llanover,  2  co.  Jones,  Rev. 
Hall,  E.  C.  Lloyd,  Esq.  Emlyn  Cottage  Jones,  Johr 
Hancock,  T.  W.,  Esq.  Newtown,  Mont  Jones,  Johc 
Harding,  Dr.  J.  D.,  Doctor's  Commons  Jones,  Rev. 
Harloy,  The  Hon.  Miss,  Harley  St  London  Jones,  Rev. 
Harries,  Rev.  G. ,  M.  A. ,  Canon  of  St  David's  Jones,  Rev. 
Harries,  Gooi^e,  Esq.  Trovaccoon,  Trevyne  Jones,  John 
Harting,  James  Vincent,  Esq.  London  Jones,  Rev. 
Hartshome,  Rev.  C.H.,  M.A.,&c.  Cogenhoe  Jones,  Rev. 
Hawkins,  H.  Montonnier,  Esq.  Tredunnock  Jones,  Rev. 
Henney,  T.,  Esq.  Clarence  House,  Chelten.  Jones,  Rev. 
Herbert,  The  Hon.  Algernon ,  Ickleton  Jones,  Majo 
Hereford,  The  Very  Reverend  the  Dean  of  Jones,  Miss, 
Hill,  the  Right  Hon.  Ld.  Vise.,  Hawkstone  Jones,  Miss, 
Hinde,  Rev. J.  Y.  W.,  M.  A.,  Clochfaen,  2  co.  Jones,  Mrs., 
Howell,  Rov.  George,  Vicar  of  Cayo  Jones,  Phili 
Howell,  Thomas,  Esq,  Whito  House,  Builth  Jones,  Pliill 
Howell,  W.,  Esq.  George  Town,  Merthyr  Jones,  R.  J., 
Hughes,  Rev.  James,  B  A.,  London  Jones,  Rev. 
Hughes,  James,  Esq.  Glanrlicidol  Jones,  Mr.  1 
Hughes,  Rov.  Joseph,  Mcltham,  Yorksliiic  Jones,  Theo 


SUBSCRIBERS  TO  THE  lOLO  MANUSCRIPTS. 


711 


Jones,  Tliomas,  Rs4|.  Llancrchnigog  IltiU 
Jones,  Rov,  Thomas,  Poncarroff 
Jones,  Thomas,  Esq.  Town's  Kn^l,  Donbijijli 
Jones,  T.  B.,  Esq.  Hullmoor.  MonmouthAli. 
Jones,  Rev.  William,  Vicar  of  Kumnoy 
Jones,  William,  Esq.  Clytli.i,  Ragland 
Jones,  Mr.  William,  Ynysy^oUcn,  Neath 
Jones,  Mr.  W.  (Otrih/m  IliUy)  Machcn 
Jones,  Rev.  W.  Arthur,  M. A.,  Northampton 
Jones,  W.  Basil,  Esq.  M.A.,  Queen's  C,  Ox. 
Knight,  Rev.  C.  R  ,  M.A.,Tytheg8ton  Court 
Knight,  Rev.  H.  II.,  B.D..  Rectory,  Neath 
Lewis,  D.,  Est}.  Bank  of  England,  Liverpool 
Lewis,  D.,  E«}.,Stradey,Cacrmarthen8hirc 
Lewis,  D.  J.,  Esq,  Gilfach,  Caormarthensh. 
Lewis,  Rev.  D.  Price,  Oilfach,  Caerm. 
Lewis,  Rev.  Henry,  Highworth,  W^iltshire 
Lei^is,  H.,  Esq.  Clerk  of  the  Peace,  Cacrm. 
Lewis,  Mr.  W.  MaesmawT,  Cwm  Nedd 
Lewis,  W.,  Esq.,  Sea  Lawn,  Olamorgansh. 
LincoIn*8  Inn,  The  Honourable  Society  of 
Llewelyn,  John,  Esq.  Surgeon,  Caerphilly 
Llewelyn,  Rev.  R.  P.,  M.A.,  Llangyn^^^d 
Llewelyn,  William,  Esq.  Greenfield,  Neath 
Llewelyn,  William,  Esf^.  Abercam,  Monm. 
Llwyd,  Miss  Angharad,Ty-yn-y-Rhyl,  Den. 
Llwyd,  Mr.  John,  Llanegryn,  Towyn 
Lloyd,  Rev.  D.,  M.A.,  Presb.  Coll.,  Cacrm. 
Lloyd,  Rev.  E.  J.,  M.A.,  Rhuddlan 
Lloyd,  Edwin,  Esq.  Leominster 
Lloyd,  Rev.  H.  R.,  M.A.,  South  Benflcct 
Lloyd,  H.  W\,  Es(i.,  Rhagatt 
Lloyd,  Major  Sir  William,  Brynestyn 
Lloyd,  Rev.  M.  Hcdd,  Ooodrcston,  Kent 
Lloyd,  Rev.  R.  W.,  M.A.,  Wilnecote 
Lloyd,  T.  Davies,  Esq.,  Bron^^^dd 
Loyd,  Ë<lward,  Esq.  Banker,  Manchester 
Lythgoe,  Rev.  Francis,  Holywell 
Mackenzie,  J.  W.,  Esq.,  W.S.,  Edinburgh 
Madocks,  John  £.,  Esq.  Glanywem,  Denb. 
Melville,  Rev.  R.,  M.A.,  Canon  of  St.David's 
Meredith,  Rov.  R.  F.,  M.A.,  Ilalstock 
Merthyr  Tydvil  Subscription  Library 
Meyer,  Dr.  Charles,  Buckingham  Palace 
Meyrick,  William,  Es*!,  Owaelod  y  Garth 
Michael,  M.  J.,  Esq.  Picton  Place,  Swansea 
Miles,  Mr.  David,  Llynfl  Iron  Works 
Meyrick,  Sir  S.  R.,  K.H.,  Goodrich  Court 
Morgan,  Arthur,  E^^.,  F.R.S.,  &c.  Ix>ndon 
Morgan,  Sir  C,  Bart  Tredegar  Park,  2  co. 
Morgan,  Colonel,  St.  Helen's,  Swansea 
Morgan,  Rev.  D.,  Cross  Town,  Cowbridgo 
Morgan,  Rev.  David,  M.A.,  Ham  Uoctory 
Morgan,  D.  Howell,  Esti.  Neath 
Morgan,  Rev.  John,  Llanychaiam 
Morgan,  Edward  L.,  Es<|.  Cv^-m  Avon 
Moi)çan,  Rev.  Morgan  Rice,  LlanHamlot 
Morgan,  Octavius,  P>q.  M.P.  F.R.S.,  \c. 
Morgan,  Rev.  W.  Leigh,  M.A.,  Canliff 
Morrall,  Ed.,  F.«q.  Plas  Warren.  Ellcsmorc 
Morris,  Mr.  Joseph,  St  John's  Hill. Shrew». 
Morris,  Rev.  J.  W,,  Ystradmeiinc  Hi)iii*e 
Morris,  T.  Charlw,  pj^j.  Llanstephan 
.Mostyn,  The  Riglit  Honourable  lionl,  2  co. 


Nanney,  Miss,  Hall  Meadows,  Haltwhlstle 
Nevill.  R.  J  ,  K«*"|.  Llnngcnnech  Park 
Newcastle,  His  G rice  the  Duke  of,  K.G.\c. 
Nicholl,  Illtvd,  E>4ti.  ITnk,  Monmouthsire 
Nicholi,  Right  Hon.  John,  M.P.,  Ac.  2  co. 
Nicholl,  Wiiitlock,  VéV\.  Adamndown 
Nicholl,   W.,   M.I).,  Penlliw,  Glamorgan- 
shire, and  Ryde,  Isle  of  Wight 
Nicholls,  Rov.  T.W.,LlanaiiangelCilfargen 
Northampton,  The  Most  Hon.  MarqucM  of 
Ormerod,  G.,  E"»(i.  F.R.S  ,&c.  Sodbury  Park 
Owen,  Aneurin,  Esi^.  Egryn,  Denbigh 
Owen,  Mr.  David,  (ilruin.%)  Pwllmadoc 
Owen,  Rov.  H.  Davies,  D.D..  Beaumaris 
Owen,  Owen  Thomas,  Esq.  Islington 
Owen,  T.  B.,  Esq.  Mona  House,  Clifton 
Palgrave,  Sir  Francis,  the  Deputy  Keeper 

of  H.  M.'s  Public  Records,  London 
Parry,  Rev.  David.  Vicar  of  Lly  wel. 
Parry,  Rev.  H.,  M.A.,  LUnasi 
Parry,  T.  L.  D.  Jones,  Es(|.  Ma<iryn  Park 
Pennant,  Mrs.  Dawkins,  Wimpole  St.  Ix>n. 
Petit,  Louis  Hayes,  Estj.  F.R.S,&c.  Ix>ndon 
Philipps,  Rev.  H.,  M.A.,  Fittleton  Rectory 
Phillipps,  A.  Lisle.  Esq.  Grace  Dieu  Manor 
Phillipps,  F.  L.,  Es<i.  Brosonose  Coll.  Oxf. 
Phillipps,  J.  B.  Lloyd,  Es<|.  Mabws 
Phillipps,  J.  W.,  Esq.  Aberglasney 
Phillipps,  R.  B.,  Esq.  Longworth,  Hcrcfonl 
Phillipps,  Sir  Thomas,  Bart  F.S.A.,  &c. 

Middle  Hill,  Worcestershire 
Phillips,  Sir  Thomas,  Temple,  London 
Phillips,  Thomas,  Esq.  BrunsiKick  Sq.  Ix)n. 
Phillii»,  Rev.  Thomas,  Hay,  Breconshire 
Pigott,  J.  H.  S.,  Esq.  F.S.A.,Brockley  Hall 
Popkin,  J.  L.,  Es<}.  LUndeiloia^^T 
Popkin,  Thomas,  Esq.  Bridgend 
Powel,  Rbys  Davies,  Esij.  Craig  y  N** 
Powell,  Frances,  Lucan  House,  RiiK>n 
Powell,  Rev.  Gabriel,  Cadoxton,  C-artiifT 
Powell,  Rev.  John,  Llanharry,  Cowbridgo 
Powell,  T.  W.,  Ewj.  Neath 
Powell,  W.  E.,  Ei«i.  M.  P.,  Nanteos 
Powis,  The  Right  Hon.  the  Earl  of,  2  co. 
Price,  Rev.  Evan,  Dunston,  Pen k  ridge 
Price,  Rev.  H.,  Needwood,  LiehAeld 
Price,  J.  Lloyd,  Esq.  (ilangwily 
Price,  Richard,  Esí^.  Norton,  Prustcign 
Price,  Rowland,  Esq.  Stourbridge 
Price,  Rev.  T.,  (('tti'nh»anairc)  C^mdu 
Price,  William,  Esq.  LUuiffoist 
Price,  William,  Escj.  Surgeon,  Glantwrch 
Price,  William,  Es«i.  Surgeon,  Pontypridd 
Prj'ce,  J.  Bruce,  Estj.  Dyffryn  Golych 
Pryce,  Rev.  Mostyn,  Gnnley 
Prvse,  PrAse,  Es«i.  M.P.,  (4Ôgeniilan 
Prichanl,'j.  C,  M.D..  F.A.S.,  Ace.   Bristol 
Prichard,  Rev.  R.,  B.D.,  Newbold  R.-ctory 
Pngh.  J.  Walter,  Esij.  R^^gent  St.,  l>»iidoii 
Piigh,  William,  Vjm\.  àSolieitor.  Hay 
Ruikes.  Henry.  Vj^i-  Registry,  Che.tter 
Re«lwoo4l.  Charh*?»,  V^\.  ('owl>rid>;e 
Riree,  Richard,  E-«q.  F.S.A.,  Cardiff 
Ret*,  Rov.  David,  M.(i.,  Llanelly 


SUBSCMBERS  TO  THE  lOLO  MANUSCRIPTS. 


712 


Reeg,  Mm.,  George  Town,  Merthyr  Tydvil 
Rees,  Mr.  John,  Grocer,  Maestèg 
Reee,  Rev.  Josiah,  Lhmgranog  Vicarage 
Rees,  Richard,  Esq.  Gaermarthen 
ReeB,  Richard,  Esq.  (^elligron,  Swansea 
Rees,  Rev.  W.  J.,  M. A.,  F.8. A.,  &c.  Cascob 
Rees,  Rev.  William,  M.A.,  Carlisle 
Rees,  Mr.  William,  Llandovery,  3  copies 
Reynolds,  Mr.  J.,  ( Naihan  Dyfed)  Merthyr 
Rhys,  Major  Charles,  Portl.  St.  Bath,  2  co. 
Richards,  Mr.  David,  Llangynv«ryd 
Richards,  E.  L.,  Esq.  Lincoln^s  Inn 
Richards,  E.  W.,  Esq.  London 
Richards,  Rev.  Thomas,  Llangynyw  Rect. 
Richards,  William,  Esq.  Architect,  Swansea 
Roberts,  Rev.  Geo.,  M.A.,  Stepney,  London 
Roberts,  Rev.  R.  J.,  Rector,  Denbigh 
Roberts,  Rev.  Samuel,  Llanbrynmair 
Rogers,  Edw.,Esq.,  LL.B.,Stannage  Park 
Romily,  Edward,  Esq.  Stratton  St  London 
Roflser,  David,  EÌq.  Merthyr  Tydvil 
Rowland,  John,  Esq.  Plas-y-feUn,  Neath 
RowUnd,  Lt.  Col.,  Royal  ArtilL,  Devonport 
Rowland,  W.,  Esq.  Surgeon,  Wrexham 
Royal  Institution  of  South  Wales,  Swansea 
St.  Asaph,  The  Very  Rev.  the  Dean  of 
St.  DavidY,  The  Rt  Rev.  Lord  Bishop  of 
St  David%  The  Very  Rev.  the  Dean  of 
Salisbury,  E.  G.,  Esq.  Birkenhead 
Salusbury,  Rev.  Sir  C,  Bart  Llanywem 
Sampson,  C.  J.,  Esq.  Tycoch,  Caernarvonsh. 
Saunders,  Mr.  William,  Abeigavenny 
Shrewsbury,  The  Right  Hon.  the  Earl  of 
Sinnett,  Rev.  John,  Lampeter 
Smith,  Charlotte  Hervcy,  Aspley  Hall 
Smith,  John  Russell,  Esq.  London 
Snead,  J.  P.,  Esq.  Craiglâs,  Brecon 
Spiftrell,  Mr.  W.,  Bookseller,  Caermarthon 
Stanley,  The  Right  Hon.  Lord,  of  Alderloy 
Stephen,  Rev.  D.  Rhys,  Manchester 
Stephens,  Edwl,  Esq.  Registrar,  Llandaff 
Stephens,  Thomas,  Esq.  Merthyr  Tydvil 
Swanston,  C.  T.,  Esq.  F.R.S  ,  &c.  London 
TaIbot,C.R.M.,  Esq.  M.P.  &c.  Margam  Park 
Talbot,  HeniyFox.,  Esq.&c.  Lacock  Abbey 
Thelwall,  Rev,  E.  Llanbedr  Rectory,  Ruthin 
Thomas,  David,  Esq.  Solicitor,  Brecon 
Thomas,  Mr.  EÍdward  B.,  Leominster 
Thomas,  E.  D.,  Esq.  Wellfield  House 
Thomas,  Evan,  Surgeon,  Carlisle 
Thomas,  James,  Esq.  Mount  Pleasant 
Thomas,  John,  Esq.  Clydach,  Abergavenny 
Thomas,  John,  Esq.  Trin.  Coll.  Cambridge 
Thomas,  Mr.  John,  Glyn  Nedd,  2  copies 
Thomas,  J.  Evan,  Esq.  F.S.A.  London 
Thomas,  Mr.  LI  ,MaeBcadlawr,  Llangy n wyd 


Thomas,  Rov.  Owen,  Newtown,  Montgom. 
Thomas,  Rioo,  Coed  Helen,  Caernarvon 
Thomas,  Thomas,  Esq.  Penkerrig,  Builth 
Tliomas,  Mr.  William,  Llynfì  Iron  Works 
Thomas,  W.  G.Stedman,Esq.,  Gaermarthen 
Traheme,  Rev.  J.  M.,  M.A.  &c  Coedriglan 
Trevelyan,  Mrs.  (George,  Jun.  Enmore 
Trevor,  The  Hon.  CoL  G.  Rice,  M.P.,  Dy- 

never  Castle 
Turnbull,  W.  B.  D.  D.,E8q.  &c.  Edinburgh 
Vaughan,  Rev.  Thomas,  M.A.,  Brecon 
Vickers,  The  Ven.  W.  Archdeacon  of  Salop 
Vincent,  Rev.  James,  Gorddinog,  Bangor 
Vivian,  J.  H.,  Esq,  M.P.,  F.R.S.,  F.G.S. 

&c.  Singleton,  2  copies 
Wakeman,  Thos.,  Esq.  The  Graig,  Monm. 
Walmsley,  Sir  Joshua,  M.P.Wavcrtree  Hall 
Watkins,  Col.  LI.  V.,  M.P.,  Pennoyre 
Watkins,  T.  B.,  Esq.  Hay,  Breconshire 
Watkins,  Mr.T.  E.  (Exddu  If  or)  Cwmcelyn 
Watkins,  Rev.  Watkin,  Bedwas,  Caerphily 
Way,  A.,  Esq.  M.A.  &e.  Wonham  Manor 
Webb,  Rev.  John,  M.A.  &cTretiro  Rectory 
Williams,  TheVen.  Archdeacon,  Llandoveiy 
Williams,  C.  C,  Esq.  Roath  Court,  Cardiff 
Williams,  D.,  Esq,  Broncryri,  PwUmadoo 
Williams,  Rev.  David,  M.A.  Nannerch 
Williams,  Eleazar,  Esq.  East  Tilbury 
Williams,  Rev.   Hugh,  M.A.,  Chancellor, 

Uandaff 
Williams,  Rev.  J.,  Incumbent  of  Cilycwm 
Williams,  Rev.  John,  M.A.,  Marcroas  Rect 
Williams,  Rev.  John,  M.A.,  Nerquis 
Williams,  Rev.  John,  Taliaris  Parsonage 
Williams,  J.,  Esq.  Marlboro'  Street,  London 
Williams,  Rev.  J.  P.,  Whitechurch,  Pcmb. 
Williams,  M.D.,  Esq.  Cwmcynfelyn 
Williams,  M.,  Esq.  Bank  House,  Llanelly 
Williams,  Rev.  Morgan,  Llanfairclydogau 
Williams,  Penry,  Esq.  Penpont,  Breconsb. 
Williams,  R.  B.,  Esq.  Llandeilo  Vawr 
Williams,  Rev.  R.  Price,  M.  A.,  Scartho 
Williams,  Rev.  R.  M.  A.,  Canon  of  St  As.ii>h 
Williams,  Stephen,  Esq.  Hay,  Breconshire 
Williams,  Rov.  Thomas,  Tip-y-cwm 
Williams,  Mr.  Thomas  B.,  Montgomery 
Williams,  Rev.  T.,  St  Georges  &  St  Asaph 
Williams,  T.  P.,  Esq.  M.P.  Craig-y-don 
Williams,  Rev.  W.  J.,  B.A.,  Ystradgnnlais 
Williams,  Rev.  W.,  Llanddyfban,  Anglesey 
Williams,  W.  Wynn,  M.A.,  Menaifron 
Williams,  William,  Esq.  of  Aberpergwm 
Winwood,  Mrs.  Thomas,  Ty  Glynn  Ayron 
Wood,  Colonel,  Littleton,  Staines 
Wright,  Thomas,  Esq.  M.A.  &c.  Brampton 
Wynne,  W.  W.  E.,  Esq.  Peniarth 


/»»t 


WIMJAM  REUS,  PRINTER,  LLANDOVERY. 


