UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORMIA 
LO5 -    AMGELE5 


5WF 


/^resented 

c 
.&<?.. 


NOT  TO  BE  TAKEN  FROM  THE  ROOM 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


GIFT 


Oriental  Aeries 

JAPAN    AND    CHINA 


AUTHOR'S    EDITION 


Limited  to  One  Thousand  Numbered  and  Registered 
Copies,  of  which  this  is 


NUMBER  ..££JL7.. 


A   CORNER    IN    A   JAPANESE    GARDEN. 


<Drmttrtl 


JAPAN 

Its  History  Arts  and  Literature 


BY 

CAPTAIN    F.  BRINKLEY 


VOLUME  VII 
PICTORIAL   AND    APPLIED   ART 


ILLUSTRATED 


J.  B.  MILLET    COMPANY 
BOSTON   AND    TOKYO 


Copyright,   1902 
BY   J.   B.   MILLET    Co. 


Entered  at  Stationers'  Hall,  London,  England 


£77 


CONTENTS 

Page 

CHAPTER    I 
JAPANESE  PICTORIAL  ART i 

CHAPTER    II 
JAPANESE  APPLIED  ART 69 

CHAPTER    III 
JAPANESE  APPLIED  ART  (Continued) 106 

CHAPTER   IV 
BRONZE-CASTING,    ARCHITECTURAL    SCULPTURE     AND 

DECORATION,  ETC 135 

CHAPTER  V 
VARIOUS  APPLICATIONS  OF  ART 162 

CHAPTER   VI 
SCULPTURE  ON  SWORD-FURNITURE 205 

CHAPTER    VII 
SCULPTURE  ON  SWORD-FURNITURE  (Continued)     .     .     .     249 

CHAPTER  VIII 
SCULPTURE  ON  SWORD-FURNITURE  (Continued)      .     .     .     295 

CHAPTER  IX 
SPECIAL  SUBJECTS 312 


APPENDIX 367 

INDEX , 379 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

Page 

A  Corner  of  a  Japanese  Garden Frontispiece 

The  Goddess  of  Fortune  (Benzaiten) 8 

Figures  of  Samurai 16 

Rihaku  Looking  at  a  Waterfall 24 

Heron 32 

Group  of  Monkeys 36 

Moonlight  on  the  Snow 40 

Quail  and  Rice 44 

Flower  Study 48 

Sunrise  on  the  Seashore 52 

Carp  in  Stream 56 

Landscape  in  Semi-Japanese  Style 60 

Modern  Semi-Japanese  School 64 

Wooden  Statue  of  the  Deity  of  Art 72 

Wooden  Statue  of  Manjusri 88 

Bronze  Statue  of  the  Moon  Deva  (Gekko)        ....  96 

Clay  Figures 112 

Wooden  Statue  of  Vimala-Kirti I2O 

Bronze  Gong 128 

Statue  (One  of  the  Deva  Kings) 144 

Image  (One  of  the  Twelve  Devas) 160 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

Page 

One  of  the  Deva  Kings  Guarding  the  Gate  at  the  Temple 

Todai-ji 176 

Eleven-faced  Kwannon  in  Shrine;  Fourteenth  Century   .  192 

Netsuke 208 

Wooden  Brackets .  224 

Modern  Ivory  Statuettes .  240 

Ivory  Inro 264 

Menuki  .  .   .   Knife  Handles  .   .   .   Rings  and  Tips       .  280 

Sword  Guards.      Plate  1 304 

Sword  Guards.      Plate  II 320 


VII 


JAPAN 


Chapter  I 

JAPANESE  PICTORIAL  ART 

JAPAN'S  victorious  war  with  the  neighbouring 
Empire  in  1894-1895  showed  the  world  that  she 
was  something  more  than  a  kind  of  pretty  toy 
country,  where  the  trivial  tourist  might  enjoy 
the  sight  of  people  using  paper  pocket-handkerchiefs, 
feeding  themselves  with  two  sticks  instead  of  a  knife 
and  fork,  and  living  in  houses  without  windows ;  and 
where  the  dilettante  might  find  art  treasures  as  charm- 
ing as  they  were  novel.  Up  to  the  eve  of  that  war, 
the  average  European  or  American  bestowed  upon 
her  no  more  attention  than  he  accorded  to  some  new 
phenomenon  in  the  world  of  physics.  A  sentiment 
of  curiosity,  perhaps  academical,  perhaps  ethnographi- 
cal, but  certainly  languid,  was  awakened  in  his  breast 
by  the  intelligence  that  an  Oriental  nation  had  under- 
taken not  merely  to  discard  its  Oriental  garments,  but 
also  to  prove  that  they  had  always  been  a  misfit. 
He  watched  the  result  much  as  he  would  have 
watched  the  experiments  of  a  horticulturist  seeking 


VOL.    VII. 


JAPAN 

to  make  peonies  blow  on  a  briar  stem.  In  the  field 
of  art,  however,  his  estimate  of  her  capacities  was 
different.  He  could  not  hide  from  himself  that  the 
revival  of  decorative  art  in  Europe  had  been  stimulated 
and  guided  by  the  study  of  first-class  Japanese  work, 
and  that  types  of  the  highest  aesthetic  quality  were  to 
be  found  among  Japanese  chefs  aauvre. 

But  what,  after  all,  was  Japanese  art  ?  Must  it  be 
regarded  as  simply  decorative,  or  might  it  also  be  con- 
sidered representative  ?  That  question  pressed  for  an 
answer.  People  were  unwilling  to  admit  that  a  new 
star  of  the  first  magnitude  had  really  risen  on  the 
horizon.  They  found  something  slight,  something 
trivial,  in  Japanese  pictures  ;  a  lack  of  emotion-inspir- 
ing motive ;  an  absence  of  massiveness  and  breadth  of 
treatment.  It  could  easily  be  detected  that  the  range 
of  the  painter's  fancy  was  limited  by  a  logical  canon  ; 
that  he  forbade  himself  to  transfer  to  his  canvas  any 
scene  too  extensive  to  be  revealed  by  a  single  glance 
of  the  eye  ;  that,  in  short,  just  as  Japanese  poetry  never 
rose  to  the  dignity  of  an  ode  but  stopped  short  at  a 
couplet,  so  Japanese  pictures,  instead  of  telling  a  com- 
plete story,  merely  suggested  an  incident.  But  that 
they  displayed  remarkable  directness  of  method  and 
strength  of  line;  that  the  artist  knew  exactly  what  he 
wanted  to  draw  and  drew  it  with  unerring  fidelity  and 
force  ;  that  the  very  outlines  of  the  picture  were  in 
themselves  a  picture,  and  that  the  whole  was  pervaded 
by  an  atmosphere  of  tenderness  and  grace  indicating  a 
refined  conception  of  everything  beautiful  in  nature, — 
these  were  facts  that  forced  themselves  upon  the  at- 
tention of  every  close  observer. 

What,  then,  was  the  fundamental  difference  between 
this  art  and  the  art  of  the  Occident  ?     It  seems  a  little 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

strange  that  the  question  should  have  remained  un- 
answered for  any  length  of  time,  inasmuch  as  a  visit 
to  a  Japanese  dwelling  should  have  immediately  sug- 
gested the  reply.  A  Japanese  picture  is  not  painted 
simply  for  the  sake  of  representative  effect ;  it  is  part 
of  a  decorative  scheme.  There  is  no  such  thing  in 
Japan  as  a  picture  gallery  —  a  place  whither  people  re- 
pair to  look  at  pictures  merely  for  the  sake  of  pictures. 
The  painter,  so  far  as  the  ultimate  uses  of  his  work 
were  concerned,  ranked  with  the  joiner,  the  plasterer, 
and  the  paper-hanger.  His  object  was  to  beautify 
some  part  of  the  domestic  interior.  Originally  the 
scope  of  his  art  was  chiefly  religious,  but  from  the 
fifteenth  century  he  may  be  said  to  have  had  three  fields 
for  the  exercise  of  his  genius  :  first,  screens  —  from  the 
broad-faced  tsuitate  that  stood  in  the  vestibule,  with 
its  boldly  limned  design  such  as  a  passing  glance  could 
appreciate,  to  the  little  two-leaved  biyobu  that  formed 
an  elbow  of  glowing  tints  and  delicate  fancies  to  em- 
brace the  pillow  of  the  lady  of  the  household ; 
second,  the  panels  of  the  sliding  doors  that  separated 
rooms,  or  gave  access  to  cupboards  and  quaintly  con- 
trived nooks ;  and,  third,  the  alcove  recess,  where  a 
hanging  picture  occupied  the  background  with  a  cen- 
ser, supported  on  a  stand,  in  the  middle  distance,  and  a 
flower  vase  and  an  o kimono l  balancing  each  other  in  the 
foreground.  Screens  and  door-panels,  whatever  their 
position  or  use,  do  not  rise  above  the  rank  of  articles 
of  furniture :  the  designs  applied  to  them  must  be 
purely  decorative.  But  a  picture  hanging  in  an  alcove 
seems  at  first  sight  to  occupy  a  higher  place  and  to 
offer  a  worthier  opportunity  for  the  display  of  repre- 
sentative art.  In  the  Japanese  system,  however,  the 

1  See  Appendix,  note  I. 


JAPAN 

alcove  picture  was  primarily  an  alcove  ornament.  It 
had  to  take  its  place  in  a  decorative  scheme ;  had  to 
harmonise  with,  not  to  eclipse,  its  surroundings ;  to 
accompany  them,  not  to  stand  apart  from  them.  The 
European  or  American  hangs  his  pictures  with  re- 
gard simply  to  the  wall  space  at  his  disposal  and 
the  direction  of  his  lights.  The  picture  is  the  sole 
object  of  his  consideration ;  everything  is  sacrificed 
to  it.  He  builds  a  special  gallery  for  the  exhibition  of 
these  treasures,  if  he  is  so  fortunate  as  to  possess  a  suffi- 
cient number,  and  he  takes  care  that  nothing  in  the 
gallery  shall  clash  with  its  prime  purpose,  the  dis- 
play of  the  paintings.  But  a  Japanese  never  shows 
more  than  one  picture,  or  one  set  of  pictures,  at  a 
time.  If  he  has  a  large  collection,  he  keeps  them  in 
his  fire-proof  storeroom,  and  gives  to  each  in  turn  a 
temporary  place  in  the  alcove  recess.  Hanging  there, 
a  picture  must  satisfy  the  same  canon  as  the  objects 
associated  with  it :  the  eye  must  find  equal  pleasure  in 
regarding  it  from  every  part  of  the  room.  Thus  it  is 
at  once  radically  differentiated  from  the  picture  of 
Occidental  art,  the  picture  which  must  be  seen  from 
one  special  point  of  view  and  with  light  coming  from 
one  fixed  direction. 

Thus,  also,  linear  perspective  and  cast  shadows  are 
necessarily  excluded.  Vanishing  points,  horizon  lines, 
and  such  things  mean  that  only  one  aspect  of  a  pic- 
ture is  delightful ;  every  other,  painful.  The  Jap- 
anese artist  perceived  these  things  intuitively.  It  has 
been  said  of  him  reproachfully  that  he  remained  per- 
petually ignorant  of  perspective,  and  that  he  never 
discovered  the  theory  of  shadows.  Certainly  it  is 
true  that  his  knowledge  of  linear  perspective  con- 
tinued to  be  very  imperfect  until  modern  times ;  but 

4 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

it  is  also  true  that  he  always  had  a  full  understanding 
of  aerial  perspective  ;  and  if  it  were  possible  to  imagine 
for  a  moment  that  the  presence  of  cast  shadows 
escaped  the  observation  of  one  so  deeply  versed  in 
every  other  detail  of  nature's  portraiture,  the  delusion 
would  at  once  be  dispelled  by  examining  his  repre- 
sentations of  fishes,  where  each  scale  is  accompanied 
by  its  due  shadow,  and  of  foliage  where  leaves  and 
branches  occupy  their  proper  places  in  an  accurate 
scheme  of  light  and  shade.  But  the  fact  is  that  he 
never  allowed  his  artistic  fancy  to  obscure  the  logic  of 
his  purpose.  His  prime  function  was  to  ornament  a 
flat  surface,  and  he  recognised  that  scenes  demanding 
the  realistic  effects  produced  by  relief  and  differences 
of  plane  are  entirely  discordant  with  such  a  function. 
He  considered  that  his  picture,  whether  it  represented 
landscape,  seascape,  figures,  flowers,  birds,  or  what  not, 
was  intended  to  produce,  not  an  illusion,  but  a  har- 
mony. Very  seldom  did  he  make  the  mistake  of 
pasting  what  people  of  the  Occident  call  "  pic- 
tures "  upon  walls,  screens,  doors,  or  ceilings.  Aerial 
perspective  and  foreshortening  were  permissible,  and 
he  used  them  with  admirable  skill :  linear  perspective 
and  cast  shadows  he  carefully  eschewed. 

It  is  easy  to  conceive  that  a  tendency  to  what  the 
West  calls  "suggestion"  would  be  developed  by  such 
conditions.  A  temple  j  would  be  represented  by  the 
tor ii  that  spans  its  avenue  of  approach  ;  a  town,  by 
two  or  three  roof-ridges  emerging  from  mist ;  a  tree, 
by  one  bough  ;  a  river,  by  a  sinuous  stroke  ;  the  sea, 
by  the  curves  of  a  few  wave-crests.  Some  have  said 
of  Japanese  art  that  it  is  essentially  impressionist. 
That  is  true,  with  the  limitation  that  the  impres- 
sions produced  are  those  of  facts,  not  of  fancies ; 

5 


JAPAN 

of  realities,  not  of  ideas.  Appreciation  depends  on 
education.  Occidentals  have  learned  to  esteem  paint- 
ing for  the  sake  of  its  beauty  independently  of  its 
environment ;  the  Japanese  esteems  it  for  its  beauty 
in  subordination  to  its  environment.  As  to  which 
is  the  greater  effort  of  art,  need  there  be  any  discus- 
sion ?  The  purpose  of  the  artist  in  each  case  is 
radically  different.  When  he  steps  out  of  the  com- 
paratively narrow  limits  imposed  by  decorative 
canons ;  when,  by  the  aid  of  cast  shadows,  perspec- 
tive, and  a  delicate  gradation  of  "  values,"  he  shows 
his  public  not  merely  an  exquisite  scene  from  nature, 
but  also  the  poetical  aspects  that  it  presents  to  his 
own  refined  imagination,  is  not  the  spectator  in  the 
presence  of  one  of  the  greatest  achievements  of 
genius,  one  of  the  noblest  results  of  intellectual  de- 
velopment ?  Still  the  merits  of  the  decorative  system 
also  must  be  recognised ;  above  all,  such  a  system  as 
the  Japanese  elaborated  by  centuries  upon  centuries 
of  subtle  effort.  The  "  picture  "  obliges  its  viewer 
to  isolate  himself  from  his  surroundings ;  to  gaze 
through  an  open  window  without  any  consciousness 
of  the  room  in  which  he  is  standing.  The  decorative 
painting  invites  him  to  view  it  as  part  of  a  whole, 
and  to  value  it  in  proportion  as  it  enhances  its  en- 
vironment. Japanese  art  may  be  said  to  end  where 
European  art  begins,  —  that  is  to  say,  European  art 
subsequent  to  the  sixteenth  century. 

This  broad  difference  recognised,  it  is  found  that 
the  Japanese  artist  accepted  every  suggestion  offered 
by  nature  within  the  limits  of  its  adaptability.  His 
observation  was  extraordinarily  keen,  perhaps  because 
he  never  assisted  it  artificially.  He  knew  nothing  of 
animate  models.  It  would  have  appeared  quite  irra- 

6 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

tional  in  his  eyes  to  take  a  drawing  of  a  danseuse  from 
a  posed  girl,  or  to  gather  the  idea  of  a  bird  in  flight 
from  a  stuffed  specimen  with  extended  wings.  "  Ob- 
jects at  rest  can  never  seem  to  be  in  motion,"  would 
have  been  his  thought,  "  however  their  limbs  be 
disposed  or  their  muscles  stretched."  Therefore  he 
painted  moving  objects  according  to  his  impression 
of  the  appearance  they  presented  when  in  motion, 
and  it  was  such  a  correct  impression  that  his  birds 
seemed  to  be  flying  out  of  the  canvas,  his  dancers 
moving  across  the  field  of  vision.  In  that  feature  of 
his  art  he  found  few  equals  and  no  superiors.  The 
nude  had  no  place  in  his  repertoire  of  subjects.  To 
hang  a  drawing  of  an  undraped  female  in  an  alcove 
would  have  been  judged  as  intolerable  a  violation  of 
propriety  as  though  a  host  should  discard  his  clothes 
to  receive  a  visitor.  How  much  the  Japanese  lost, 
how  much  they  gained,  by  excluding  such  subjects 
from  their  pictorial  art,  need  not  be  discussed  here. 
But  reference  may  be  made  to  the  fact  that  the  question 
is  now  actively  agitating  public  opinion.  Two  or 
three  painters,  disciples  of  the  Occidental  School, 
have  invited  a  conclusive  decision  by  exhibiting  pic- 
tures of  the  nude,  and  the  nation  hesitates  whether 
to  welcome  or  to  taboo  the  innovation.  It  must  be 
confessed  that  the  challenge  has  been  very  rudely  is- 
sued. The  paintings  upon  which  judgment  is  to  be 
based  have  hitherto  been  entirely  without  the  atmos- 
phere of  refinement  and  idealism  which  alone  can  veil 
the  gross  features  of  such  representations.  Were  the 
circumstances  ever  so  favourable,  however,  it  is  prob- 
able that  more  than  one  generation  must  come  and 
go  before  Japanese  taste  can  be  even  partially  recon- 
ciled to  pictures  of  the  nude.  At  all  events,  there  has 

7 


JAPAN 

been  nothing  of  the  kind  as  yet  in  the  country's  art. 
It  is  an  easily  understood  corollary  that  anatomical 
studies  never  occupied  the  artist's  attention.  That 
defect  in  his  education  often  forces  itself  painfully 
upon  observation,  especially  in  his  delineation  of  hands 
and  feet.  Perhaps  for  the  same  reason  he  fails  sig- 
nally in  his  attempt  to  draw  animals,  —  horses,  oxen, 
foxes,  tigers,  elephants,  wolves,  dogs,  and  so  forth. 
Strange  that  the  accuracy  of  his  observation,  conspicu- 
ous in  other  things,  should  be  so  markedly  defective 
in  this  field.  He  can  limn  a  fish,  a  bird,  an  insect,  or 
even  a  fluffy  little  puppy-dog  to  perfection,  but  when 
he  has  to  trace  outlines  that  depend  for  their  correct- 
ness on  knowledge  of  the  bony  and  muscular  structures 
beneath,  he  errs  perpetually.  Directness  of  method 
and  power  of  line  are  among  his  chief  merits.  As 
to  the  latter  quality,  its  genesis  may  be  attributed  to 
the  use  of  the  ideographic  script.  The  training  that 
every  Japanese  child  receives  from  a  tender  age  in 
tracing  ideographs,  educates  a  brush-using  facility 
which  has  become  in  some  degree  hereditary.  It 
may  be  laid  down  as  axiomatic  that  an  intimate  rela- 
tionship exists  between  Japanese  calligraphy  and  Jap- 
anese painting,  and  that  the  Japanese  eye  detects  in 
brush  strokes  an  aesthetic  beauty  too  subtle  to  appeal 
to  men  living  outside  the  ideographic  pale.  Touch, 
as  has  been  well  said  by  a  great  connoisseur  of  Jap- 
anese pictorial  art,  is  not  by  any  means  the  most 
important  quality  in  a  picture,  but  it  nevertheless 
contributes  largely  to  the  flavour  and  vitality  of  an 
artist's  work.  When  a  Japanese  speaks  of  "  power 
of  pen  "  (hitsu-riyokit),  there  presents  itself  to  his  mind 
a  combination  of  delicate  grace,  infallible  accuracy, 
and  unostentatious  verve  which  every  intelligent  ob- 


.(M3TI 
?fw  sriJ  gn:rj!oJ  bnei! 


Q(K)O    21IIT 


•nsri  irfgii  isH 


Fainting,  eighth  century,  by  unknown  artist. 

THE   GODDESS   OF   FORTUNE   (BENZAITEN). 

Her  right  hand  shown  in  the  distorted  shape  called  abhayanda ;  her  left  hand  holding  the  wishing  Jewel. 

From  the  Temple  of  Yakushi-ji.    (See  page  26  J 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

server  is  expected  to  recognise.  He  himself,  if  he 
has  any  pretensions  to  be  a  connoisseur,  is  familiar 
with  sixteen  different  styles  of  touch  for  painting 
scenery,  thirty-six  for  painting  foliage,  and  nineteen 
for  painting  drapery,  which  constitute  the  classics  of 
the  brush,  each  having  its  own  distinctive  name 
and  clearly  established  characteristics.  To  Western 
intelligence  these  facts  suggest  mannerism  and  for- 
malism. Such  analytical  elaboration  seems  incongru  > 
ous  with  the  spirit  of  true  art.  Yet  tricks  of  brush- 
manipulation  are  not  allowed  to  impair  the  expression 
of  the  pictorial  motive  in  Japan.  These  peculiar 
strokes,  when  traced  by  the  hand  of  a  master,  do  not 
obtrude  themselves  at  the  expense  of  congruity. 
They  may,  of  course,  be  exaggerated  so  as  to  become 
startlingly  obtrusive.  Hokusai's  work  often  shows 
that  fault.  His  use  of  the  "swift-wave,"  otherwise 
called  the  "  holly-leaf,"  style  in  drawing  drapery 
sometimes  degenerates  into  an  impertinent  man- 
nerism, whereas  outlines  of  the  same  class  appear 
natural  and  appropriate  when  traced  by  the  brush  of 
Utanosuke  or  Shiutoku.  But  the  point  to  which  at- 
tention may  be  directed  is  not  the  merits  or  defects 
of  such  styles  for  pictorial  purposes  so  much  as  the 
fact  of  their  accurate  differentiation  and  faithful  em- 
ployment by  Japanese  experts.  The  observer  is  thus 
carried  into  a  field  practically  unexplored  by  Euro- 
pean and  American  artists  who  associate  with  the  best 
line  drawing  no  qualities  other  than  strength,  deli- 
cacy, and  directness. 

Passing  from  the  calligraphic  training  of  the  hand 
to  the  hand  itself,  it  is  seen  that  nature  has  endowed 
the  Japanese  people  with  hands  singularly  supple  and 
sensitive.  Manual  dexterity  ought  to  characterise 

9 


JAPAN 

such  a  nation.  Thus,  if  they  are  found  wielding  the 
artist's  brush  with  admirable  strength  and  accuracy, 
one  may  look  also  to  find  them  revelling  in  micro- 
scopic elaboration  of  detail ;  if  at  one  time  they 
suggest  a  whole  repertoire  of  facts  by  a  few  bold 
touches,  at  another  they  may  be  expected  to  lavish  a 
whole  mine  of  minutiae  upon  the  working  out  of  a 
few  facts.  And  so  indeed  it  is.  Side  by  side  with 
sketches  which  astonish  by  the  suggestive  wealth  of 
half-a-dozen  salient  brush-strokes,  pictures  are  seen 
which  almost  eclipse  the  illuminated  missals  of  me- 
diaeval times,  so  conscientious  is  their  detail,  so  profuse 
their  elaboration.  What  perplexes  many  students, 
too,  is  that  the  same  brush  dashes  out  at  one  moment 
a  design  of  colossal  boldness,  and  devotes  itself,  the 
next,  to  work  of  marvellous  detail.  By  way  of  illus- 
tration, reference  may  be  made  to  Nobuzane  and 
Hokusai,  names  very  familiar  to  Western  connoisseurs. 
If  the  average  Japanese  dilettante  be  asked  to  describe 
Nobuzane's  characteristics,  he  will  reply,  delicacy  of 
touch,  illimitable  minutiae  of  detail,  and  exquisite 
harmony  of  tints.  Yet  it  is  a  fact  established  beyond 
query  that  the  genuine  works  of  Nobuzane  show  him 
to  have  been  a  master  possessing  noble  vigour,  and 
place  him  incomparably  above  the  illuminator  of  a 
missal  or  the  painter  of  a  peacock's  tail.  So,  too,  if 
the  average  American  or  European  collector  had  to 
define  Hokusai's  style,  he  would  speak  of  bold  out- 
lines, of  wonderfully  realistic  figures,  and  of  a  wealth 
of  humorous  conception.  Yet  there  exist  pictures  by 
Hokusai  which  rank  with  the  finest  etching  in  the 
matter  of  minutiae,  and  with  the  most  delicate  en- 
graving in  the  matter  of  mechanical  accuracy  of  line. 
It  is  scarcely  possible  to  conceive  that  the  laborious 

10 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

limner  of  such  works  can  be  identical  with  the  daring 
artist  of  the  Man-gwa  (ten  thousand  sketches)  or  the 
poetical  painter  of  the  Hundred  Views  of  Fujiyama. 
Some  may  say,  perhaps,  that  the  Japanese  hand  is  a 
product  of  the  ideograph  ;  that  the  manipulation  of 
the  brush  through  long  centuries  has  modified  the 
shape  of  the  fingers  and  caused  a  special  adjustment 
of  muscles.  That  is  a  question  beyond  the  range  of 
art  discussion.  It  has  concern  for  those  that  advocate 
the  displacement  of  the  ideographic  script  by  the 
Roman  alphabet,  but  here  it  will  suffice  to  notice  the 
three  factors  that  belong  to  this  context,  factors  which 
must  be  recognised  by  every  one  desiring  to  appreciate 
Japanese  art,  namely,  a  hand  singularly  supple  and 
sensitive,  a  brush  manipulated  with  skill  and  strength 
beyond  any  Occidental  standard,  and  a  hereditary 
perception  of  quality  in  touch  with  which  only  an 
ideographist  can  fully  sympathise. 

The  brush  (fude}  itself  is  not  an  ideal  contrivance 
for  artistic  purposes.  It  is  a  stiff-haired  pencil  which, 
in  ordinary  hands,  presents  a  difficulty  to  be  overcome 
rather  than  a  helpful  instrument.  This  comment  may 
be  appropriately  extended  to  the  general  question  of 
the  Japanese  artist's  materials.  It  is  said  that  unless 
one  has  actually  worked  with  those  materials,  the 
difficulty  of  manipulating  them  cannot  be  realised. 
The  rapidly  absorptive  quality  of  the  paper,  as  pre- 
pared for  use,  necessitates  damping  of  the  whole  sur- 
face in  order  to  apply  a  wash,  and,  of  course,  after 
the  damping  process  has  been  repeated  three  or  four 
times,  the  sizing  of  the  paper  perishes,  or  the  prepa- 
ration of  the  silk  disappears,  if  silk  is  employed. 
Moreover,  the  colour  first  applied  is  assimilated  so 
largely  that  unless  it  be  opaque  there  is  little  possi- 

1 1 


J  A  PAN 

bility  of  working  over  it  even  when  dry  :  it  seems  to 
swallow  up  all  shades  which  are  not  very  much  darker 
than  itself.  Practically,  therefore,  one  wash  is  the 
limit.  On  the  dry  paper,  too,  the  work  has  to  be  done 
quickly  and  with  sweeping,  finished  strokes ;  if  the 
brush  leaves  the  paper,  there  is  a  hard  line  without 
recourse.  Correction  is  practically  impossible,  and  the 
result  of  every  brushful  of  colour  must,  therefore,  be 
foreseen  to  a  nicety.  On  the  other  hand,  the  paper 
and  silk  —  especially  the  latter  —  of  the  Japanese 
artist  repay  these  technical  difficulties  by  the  delicate 
softness  that  they  impart  to  a  colour,  and,  in  the  case 
of  silk,  exceptional  effects  are  produced  by  applying 
the  pigments  at  the  back  of  the  drawing  so  that  they 
show  through  the  material. 

There  is  another  feature  of  Japanese  pictorial  art 
which,  though  apparently  little  appreciated  by  West- 
ern connoisseurs,  must  really  be  regarded  as  funda- 
mental. It  is  that  the  position  of  the  painter  with 
regard  to  his  picture  influences  the  whole  character 
of  his  line  work.  Instead  of  standing  upright  before 
his  easel  so  that  the  axis  of  his  lines  is  either  on  the 
mahl-stick  or  at  his  shoulder,  he  kneels  on  the  floor 
with  his  paper  or  silk  beneath  him  so  that  the  axis 
of  his  sweep  is  the  lower  part  of  the  leg,  and  the 
whole  body  from  the  knee  upward  becomes  the 
arm  with  which  the  lines  and  curves  are  produced. 
Whether  this  mechanical  difference  constitutes  an 
advantage  or  a  disadvantage  is  a  difficult  question.  But, 
as  a  very  astute  critic  has  remarked,  "  Japanese  draw- 
ing so  depends  on  its  lines,  its  character  is  so  wrapped 
up  in  them,  that  if  the  lines  changed  their  sweep  and 
flow,  that  character  would  be  lost." 

It  will  be  easilv  inferred  from  what  has  thus  far 

* 

11 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

been  written  that  the  mannerisms  of  Japanese  art  are 
numerous.  The  decorative  limits  within  which  it  is 
for  the  most  part  confined  render  such  a  result  almost 
inevitable.  In  the  course  of  time  certain  tricks  of 
delineation  have  received  the  cachet  of  great  masters 
and  been  recognised  as  the  ne  plus  ultra  of  forceful 
suggestiveness.  A  fatal  temptation  to  learn  these 
tricks  without  attempting  to  acquire  the  spirit  that 
suggested  them  besets  the  average  student.  It  is  so 
comfortable,  so  reassuring,  to  know  that  waves,  bam- 
boos, clouds,  flowing  water,  hair,  rock,  and  a  multi- 
tude of  other  objects  may  be  depicted  by  lines,  curves, 
and  washes  combined  and  arranged  in  ways  capable 
of  being  memorised  as  accurately  as  an  ideograph  or 
a  syllabary.  The  result  is  painful  ease  of  reproduction. 
The  observer  is  lost  in  admiration  of  the  directness 
and  facility  of  a  Japanese  artist  who  seats  himself 
among  a  group  of  onlookers  and  paints  a  dozen  pic- 
tures in  an  hour,  each  presenting  some  points  of 
excellence.  But  it  may  very  well  happen  that  a  year 
or  two  later  the  same  observer  is  invited  to  attend  a 
seance  where  the  same  artist  performs  the  same  tour  de 
force  by  producing  exactly  the  same  pictures  in  the 
same  time.  Of  course  this  criticism  applies  to  the 
rank  and  file  alone  of  the  profession,  —  the  men  who, 
being  without  originality  of  conception,  are  obliged 
to  substitute  skill  of  pencil,  and  who  find  in  the  mere 
processes  of  the  great  masters  a  sufficient  equipment 
for  the  purposes  of  every-day  art.  Unfortunately  such 
mechanists  of  the  brush  have  abounded  in  every  era. 
Their  skill  as  copyists  constitutes  a  barrier  to  foreign 
appreciation  of  true  Japanese  art.  How  many  col- 
lectors or  connoisseurs  in  Europe  or  America  have 
had  an  opportunity  of  examining  genuine  works  of 

13 


JAPAN 

great  Japanese  painters  ?  How  many  Japanese  in 
Japan  have  had  such  an  opportunity  ?  Their  com- 
bined number  might  probably  be  counted  on  the 
fingers  of  two  hands.  Copies,  imitations,  forgeries, 
they  have  seen  in  abundance,  but  to  authenticated 
originals  they  have  had  little  access. 

What  has  already  been  said  about  picture  galleries 
may  be  recalled  here.  In  Europe  and  America  one 
can  visit  collections,  private  or  public,  where  examples 
of  all  the  celebrated  artists  of  France,  Italy,  Germany, 
and  so  on  are  displayed.  There  is  nothing  of  the 
kind  in  Japan,  and  there  never  has  been  anything  of 
the  kind.  Japanese  pictures  are  hidden  away  among 
the  heirlooms  of  temples  or  in  the  storehouses  of 
noblemen  and  wealthy  merchants.  They  are  practi- 
cally inaccessible.  A  not  uninterested  or  unintelligent 
observer  may  have  lived  for  years  in  Japan  before  the 
trivial  estimate  he  has  formed  of  Sesshiu,  of  Shiubun, 
of  Motonobu,  of  Ch5  Densu,  of  Tanyu,  or  of  the 
other  masters,  is  rudely  disturbed  some  morning  by  a 
revelation  that  startles  him  into  a  new  belief.  He 
may  never  have  that  revelation  at  all.  The  chances 
are  a  thousand  to  one  that  it  never  comes  to  a  resi- 
dent of  a  foreign  settlement.  Certainly  some  of  the 
European  authors  whom  the  world  accepts  as  true 
exponents  of  Japanese  art  have  never  been  introduced 
to  genuine  representatives  of  many  of  the  historical 
schools  that  they  describe.  They  have  utilized  their 
limited  opportunities  with  diligence  and  ability,  but 
it  was  impossible  that  they  could  speak  discerningly 
of  what  they  had  not  seen,  or  had  viewed  only 
through  copies  scarcely  ranking  above  caricatures. 
In  this  reflection  is  to  be  found,  perhaps,  a  sufficient 
explanation  of  the  great  divergence  between  views 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

submitted  to  the  public  on  the  subject  of  Japanese 
art.  Chamberlain  can  scarcely  conceal  his  contempt 
for  it :  he  finds  that  it  "  stops  at  the  small,  the  petty, 
the  isolated,  the  vignette,"  and  that  the  chief  lesson 
it  has  taught  the  world  is  "  the  charm  of  irregularity." 
Fenollosa,  on  the  other  hand,  talks  of  Motonobu  as 
"  scaling  the  heavens  and  battling  with  Titans ;"  of 
"  the  depth  and  intensity  which  startle  us  like  the 
voices  of  the  Gods  from  the  mellow-toned  sheets  of 
Shiubun,  Noami,  Jasoku,  and  Masanobu ;  "  of  "the 
draught  of  immortality  that  all  late  artists  have  sought 
to  drink  from  the  well  of  Sesshiu's  irrepressible 
vigour,"  and  of  "Yeitoku,  whose  heart  burns  with 
the  internal  fire  lit  from  the  torch  of  the  Sung 
genius."  It  is  impossible  that  two  men  of  very  much 
more  than  average  intelligence  can  speak  of  the  same 
thing  with  voices  so  dissentient.  The  truth  is  that 
their  verdicts  are  based  on  different  evidence. 

The  remarks  made  above  with  reference  to  the 
decorative  limitations  of  Japanese  art  apply  with 
clearer  truth  to  secular  than  to  religious  paintings. 
In  the  latter  field  work  is  occasionally  found  that  does 
not  suggest  any  consideration  for  the  plane  of  its  dis- 
play or  the  nature  of  its  environment.  Some  of  the 
earliest  masters  are  known  chiefly,  if  not  entirely,  by 
the  pictures  that  they  painted  for  Buddhist  temples  or 
Buddhist  priests,  and  these  pictures  would  deservedly 
rank  high  in  any  country.  They  show  loftiness  of 
conception,  massiveness  of  treatment,  and  vigour  of 
method  that  rival  the  achievements  of  the  Italian 
mediaeval  celebrities.  Yet  they  cannot  be  cited  as 
witnesses  against  the  general  theory  enunciated  above, 
for  they  are  without  either  linear  perspective  or  cast 
shadows. 


JAPAN 

Japanese  pictorial  art  is  permeated  with  Chinese 
affinities.  The  one  is  indeed  the  child  of  the  other, 
and  traces  of  this  close  relationship  are  nearly  always 
present  in  greater  or  less  degree.  To  discern  the 
marks  of  consanguinity  is,  however,  a  difficult  task  at 
times,  not  because  of  their  actual  obscurity,  but  be- 
cause means  of  identification  are  defective.  Imper- 
fect as  is  the  Occident's  knowledge  of  Japanese 
pictorial  art,  it  compares  favourably  with  its  knowl- 
edge of  Chinese.  Of  the  latter  virtually  nothing  was 
known  by  Western  connoisseurs  until  they  were  in- 
troduced to  it  through  the  medium  of  the  former  ; 
for,  strange  as  the  fact  may  seem,  fine  Chinese  pictures 
are  very  much  more  accessible  in  Japan  than  in 
China.  Japan  is  perfectly  frank  in  acknowledging 
the  debt  she  owes  to  the  neighbouring  empire.  She 
does  not  pretend  for  a  moment  that  her  own  painters 
have  ever  surpassed  their  models,  the  great  masters 
of  the  Tang,  the  Sung,  the  Yuan,  and  the  Ming 
dynasties,  and  she  treasures  the  latter' s  works  with  all 
the  reverent  love  that  an  Occidental  virtuoso  feels  for 
the  gems  of  Rubens,  of  Angelo,  of  Titian,  or  of 
Holbein.  It  may,  indeed,  be  fairly  claimed  for  the 
Japanese  that  in  some  branches  of  painting  their 
modifications  deserve  to  be  regarded  as  efforts  of 
original  genius,  and  that,  speaking  generally,  their 
work  is  superior  to  that  of  the  Chinese  in  tender- 
ness, grace,  and,  above  all,  humour.  But,  for  the  rest, 
they  sit  at  China's  feet.  Korea  should  also  be  in- 
cluded among  their  masters,  for  there  is  evidence  that 
Korean  influence  preceded  Chinese.  But  the  earliest 
really  great  Japanese  artist  —  Kose  no  Kanaoka  —  is 
an  unalloyed  product  of  Chinese  inspiration,  and 
stands  at  the  crest  of  a  flood  of  Chinese  influence  that 

16 


.IAHUMA8   TO   HHJ1UOI! 
(.2£  ageq  s»2)    .y^uinsD  rijnselxia  to  bn3    .tarfcteM 


FIGURES   OF   SAMURAI. 

By  Iwasa  Matahei.    End  of  sixteenth  century.    (See  page  45.) 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

inundated  his  country  in  the  eighth  and  ninth  centuries. 
Two  hundred  years  before  his  time  (850-880  A.D.), 
Buddhism  had  become  established  in  Japan,  and  the 
best  efforts  of  her  artists  were  soon  devoted  to  the 
service  of  the  new  faith.  Thus  the  most  ancient 
painting  now  extant  is  a  mural  decoration  in  the 
temple  Horiu-ji,  near  Nara,  which  is  believed  to  date 
from  the  opening  years  of  the  seventh  century,  and 
it  may  be  stated  at  once  that  in  no  country  has  the 
spirit  of  art  been  more  closely  connected  with  religion 
than  in  Japan.  Not  merely  did  painting,  architec- 
ture, and  sculpture  make  their  entry  in  the  train  of 
the  Indian  creed,  but  close  study  shows  that  the 
development  of  the  various  sects  may  often  be  traced 
by  their  influence  on  the  artistic  features  of  their 
respective  epochs.  To  Buddhism  also  are  due  the 
Grecian  affinities  distinctly  traceable  in  Japanese  art, 
for  the  conquests  of  Alexander  brought  Grecian 
civilisation  to  northern  India,  whence  Buddhism  set 
out  for  China,  Korea,  and  Japan. 

Concerning  the  history  of  Japanese  art,  the  best 
authorities  refer  its  genesis  to  the  reign  of  the  Em- 
press Suiko  (563-567  A.D.),  when  Chinese  court 
fashions,  literature,  and  etiquette  were  introduced, 
and  with  them  came  applied  art  for  decorating  the 
Buddhist  temples  then  beginning  to  be  built.  The 
accuracy  of  the  date  need  not  be  insisted  upon,  for 
the  evidence  is  traditional  ;  but  certainly  the  seventh 
century  bequeathed  to  posterity  a  few  specimens 
which  show  that  the  casting,  and  chiselling  of  metal, 
and  the  manufacture  of  lacquer  were  already  practised 
with  considerable  skill;  that  fine  examples  of  em- 
broidery had  been  imported  from  China,  if  not 
produced  in  Japan,  and  that  painting,  though  still 


VOL.    VII. 


JAPAN 

crude  and  elementary,  had  made  some  progress.  A 
great  deal  of  ingenuity  and  close  research  have  been 
devoted  to  tracing  fine  lines  of  division  between  the 
periods  of  Japanese  development  in  those  early  days, 
but  the  resulting  differentiation  is  too  subtle  to  be 
practical.  The  problem  of  real  interest  is  to  separate 
foreign  inspiration  from  native  originality ;  to  deter- 
mine whether  this  art,  which  has  so  greatly  pleased 
the  world  in  modern  times,  is  a  mere  by-product  of 
inspiration  emanating  in  the  first  place  from  Greece, 
and  becoming  more  and  more  deflected  from  the  line 
of  identity  as  it  passed  through  the  refracting  media 
of  Indian,  Chinese,  Korean,  and  Japanese  assimilations, 
or  whether  any  part  of  it  may  be  regarded  as  the  un- 
mixed offspring  of  Japanese  genius.  With  that  object 
in  view  it  would  certainly  be  helpful  to  trace  the 
record  back  to  its  very  alphabet.  But  unfortunately 
the  materials  are  not  sufficient  for  accurate  analysis. 
If  the  most  profound  students  take  the  latter  half  of 
the  sixth  century  as  the  opening  era,  it  is  not  because 
they  believe  the  preceding  cycles  to  have  been 
entirely  barren,  but  because  the  spread  of  Buddhism 
at  that  time  supplied  the  first  elevating  impulse,  as 
well  as  the  first  means  of  preserving  and  transmitting 
the  art  products  of  the  time.  There  is  no  apparent 
possibility  of  determining,  however,  whether  the 
scanty  specimens  transmitted  from  the  sixth  century 
and  the  first  half  of  the  seventh  were  the  work  of 
Japanese,  Chinese,  or  Korean  hands.  Not  until  the 
end  of  the  seventh  century  does  solid  ground  present 
itself,  and  Japan  is  then  found  in  such  close  contact 
with  China  that  a  full  tide  of  civilisation  flowed  from 
the  latter  to  the  shores  of  her  neighbour, —  civilisa- 
tion which,  so  far  as  its  artistic  side  is  concerned,  was 

18 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

permeated  with  Indo-Grecian  influences.  The  mate- 
rials for  study  now  cease  to  be  few  and  apocryphal. 
A  very  considerable  number  of  authenticated  sculp- 
tures, several  paintings,  and  a  remarkably  full  assem- 
blage of  examples  of  applied  art,  illustrate  the  culture 
of  the  epoch. 

To  this  time  belongs  the  celebrated  collection  pre- 
served in  an  imperial  storehouse  called  the  Shoso-in 
at  Nara.  Nara  was  the  capital  of  Japan  and  the  resi- 
dence of  the  Imperial  Court  from  709  to  784  A.D. 
During  that  interval  the  priests  of  Horiuji,  to  which 
temple  the  Shoso-in  is  attached,  received  from  the 
Palace  various  memorial  relics,  so  that  the  Shoso-in 
collection  ultimately  comprised  specimens  of  the 
ornaments,  utensils,  robes,  musical  instruments,  etc., 
used  by  three  Emperors  and  three  Empresses.  This 
collection,  supplemented  by  temple  treasures,  brings 
the  student  into  intimate  touch  with  the  civilisation 
of  the  era.  He  can  speak  of  it  confidently.  As  to 
sculpture,  the  point  of  excellence  to  which  it  had 
been  carried  is  attested  by  several  statues  which  form 
part  of  the  Nara  temple  relics.  No  critic  can  deny 
to  these  works  a  high  place  in  any  scale  of  artistic 
conception  and  technical  skill.  Tradition  assigns 
some  of  the  best  of  them  to  anonymous  Chinese  or 
Korean  sculptors.  But  no  such  sculptures  have  hith- 
erto been  found  in  either  Korea  or  China.  Here  is 
presented  one  of  the  difficulties  besetting  every  effort 
to  decipher  the  alphabet  of  Japanese  art.  Work- 
ing in  the  service  of  religion,  the  Japanese  artist 
buried  his  individuality  in  his  purpose ;  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  since  Korea  originally  transmitted  Bud- 
dhism to  Japan,  and  China,  during  several  centuries, 
remained  the  sole  source  of  its  exegesis,  the  priests 

19 


JAPAN 

and  propagandists  of  the  faith  were  naturally  disposed 
to  claim  the  cachet  of  Korean  and  Chinese  artists  for 
the  decoration  and  equipment  of  sacred  edifices.  The 
artist  effaced  himself;  his  employers  ignored  him,  and 
posterity  was  probably  betrayed  into  the  error  of  at- 
tributing to  foreign  masters  much  that  Japan  had  a 
just  title  to  call  her  own.  The  tendency  of  modern 
research  is  to  throw  doubt  upon  the  foreign  prove- 
nance of  several  important  works  hitherto  attributed  to 
Chinese  or  Korean  artists.  Men  that  could  conceive 
and  construct  the  colossal  bronze  figure  of  Lochana 
Buddha  at  Nara,  and  the  numerous  images  preserved 
in  the  temple  there,  cannot  have  experienced  much 
necessity  to  employ  Chinese  or  Korean  hands.  Nev- 
ertheless, though  the  glyptic  art,  the  lacquerer's  art, 
and  the  inlayer's  art  unquestionably  attained  a  high 
stage  of  development  in  this  epoch,  the  pictorial  art 
remained  in  a  secondary  place  and  a  careful  examina- 
tion of  the  Shoso-in  collection  shows  that  even  in  the 
field  of  decorative  art  the  features  which  constitute 
the  chief  charm,  as  well  as  the  specialty,  of  Japanese 
genius  in  later  ages  had  not  yet  been  evolved.  With- 
out exception  the  decoration  seen  in  the  Shoso-in 
specimens  is  geometrically  distributed.  There  is  no 
evidence  that  the  Japanese  had  yet  begun  to  fathom 
the  secret  of  natural  proportion,  or  to  study  the  lesson 
they  afterwards  acquired  so  perfectly,  namely,  that  to 
conceal,  while  preserving,  the  geometrical  relations 
of  part  to  part,  to  obtain  equilibrium  while  apparently 
despising  equipoise,  is  the  fundamental  axiom  of 
graceful  symmetry.  But  as  sculptors  they  unquestion- 
ably stand  at  the  head  of  Far-Eastern  artists,  and  al- 
though the  degree  of  their  supremacy  varied  from 
age  to  age,  the  fact  could  never  be  questioned.  What 

20 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

has  been  said  above  of  painting  applies  with  equal 
truth  to  sculpture.  In  both  alike  the  impress  of 
Japanese  genius  shows  itself  chiefly  in  tenderness, 
grace,  and,  above  all,  humour.  It  is  doubtful  whether 
the  Japanese  pictorial  artist  ever  scaled  the  heights  on 
which  the  greatest  of  the  Chinese  masters  stood.  It 
is  virtually  certain  that  the  converse  is  true  in  the  case 
of  sculpture.  But  these  are  mere  differences  of 
degree.  Not  until  the  characteristics  of  humour, 
tenderness,  and  grace  are  considered  does  the  distinc- 
tion become  radical. 

A  few  words  may  be  said  here  about  Chinese  art, 
since  it  occupies  such  an  important  place  in  the  vista 
of  the  retrospect.  While  accepting  the  indisputable 
truth  that  the  art  of  Japan  in  its  greatest  phases  is  but 
a  reflection  of  the  art  of  China — a  reflection  fre- 
quently vying  with  its  original  in  vigour  and  vitality, 
but  more  frequently  displaying  the  weaknesses  inci- 
dental to  imitations  in  general  —  it  is  necessary  to 
avoid  the  inference  that  the  native  genius  of  the 
Chinese  artist  was  wholly  responsible  for  his  successes. 
The  fact  is  that  in  both  countries  pictorial  art  drew 
its  best  inspiration  from  the  same  fount,  Buddhism, 
and  in  both  derived  some  of  its  most  striking  techni- 
cal features  from  the  same  source,  calligraphy.  The 
Chinese  doubtless  had  pictures  long  before  the  days 
of  Apelles  and  Zeuxis,  but  their  artists  failed  to  attract 
any  national  attention  until  Buddhism,  coming  in  the 
third  century  of  the  Christian  era,  brought  to  them 
Grasco-Indian  suggestions  which  soon  raised  to  the  dig- 
nity of  an  art  what  had  hitherto  been  nothing  more  than 
a  branch  of  calligraphy.  By  a  slow  process  of  evolu- 
tion this  reformed  art  gradually  attained,  in  the  eighth 
century,  a  culminating  point  at  which  stands  the  figure 

21 


JAPAN 

of  Wu  Tao-tsz.1  Speaking  broadly,  the  painters  of 
his  epoch  —  the  Tang  Dynasty  (618-907  A.D.)  —  are 
believed  to  be  the  most  powerful  and  original  their 
country  has  produced,  but  it  is  difficult  to  determine 
how  much  that  verdict  owes  to  Oriental  reverence  for 
the  antique.  If  the  works  of  Wu  Tao-tsz,  Wong 
Wei  (Japanese  O-i),  and  Han  Kan  (Japanese  Kan- 
Kan)  served  as  splendid  models  to  the  first  Japanese 
painters  of  note,  —  Kose  no  Kanaoka  and  his  imme- 
diate successors, —  the  pictures  of  the  Sung  (960-1 205 
A.D.)  masters  2  were  even  more  esteemed  and  copied 
by  subsequent  Japanese  artists,  and  continuously  in 
later  eras 3  the  influence  of  the  various  Chinese  schools 
made  itself  felt  in  the  neighbouring  empire.  Turning 
to  the  general  characteristics  of  the  art,  the  first  point 
to  be  noted  is  that  strength,  directness,  decision, 
and  delicacy  of  stroke  ranked  above  all  other  quali- 
ties. Outlines  were  frequently  traced,  the  fact  that 
they  do  not  exist  in  nature  being  deliberately  ig- 
nored. Doubtless  for  the  same  reason,  accuracy  of 
drawing  was  often  sacrificed  to  conventionalised  beau- 
ties of  curve  and  contour,  and  nature's  effects  were 
translated  into  the  language  of  decorative  manner- 
isms. Linear  perspective  was  either  absent  altogether 
or  present  in  a  form  that  violated  European  canons. 
Cast  shadows  did  not  appear.  Colours  were  used 
very  sparingly  in  the  earlier  eras,  the  best  works 
being  in  black  and  white,  pure  monochrome,  or 
pale  tints  relieved  by  an  occasional  touch  of  brighter 
hue.  No  subject  was  too  trivial  for  representation, 
but  if  pictures  were  often  produced  which,  so  far  as 
concerns  the  objects  depicted,  would  rank  only  as 

1  See  Appendix,  note  2.  a  See  Appendix,   note  3. 

8  See  Appendix,  note  4. 

22 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

studies  in  the  Occident,  their  narrowness  of  range 
was  redeemed  by  remarkable  subtlety  of  suggestion, 
and  in  the  case  of  landscapes  there  was  a  really  noble 
power  of  representing  space  and  atmosphere.  These 
remarks  apply  to  secular  rather  than  to  religious  paint- 
ings. In  the  latter,  figure  subjects  predominate,  and 
are  treated  not  only  with  grandeur  of  conception  but 
sometimes  also  with  gorgeous  wealth  of  decorative 
detail.  The  religious  pictures  of  China  and  Japan 
are  scarcely  distinguishable.  That  is  not  strange 
when  the  identity  of  their  motives  and  calligraphic 
methods  is  remembered,  as  well  as  the  fact  that  in 
early  days  the  Middle  Kingdom  stood  towards  the 
island  empire  in  nearly  the  same  relation  as  that  oc- 
cupied by  Italy  towards  western  Europe  in  mediaeval 
and  modern  times.  China  was  the  bourne  of  the 
Japanese  art  student  as  well  as  of  the  Japanese  littera- 
teur, and  to  have  sat  at  the  feet  of  the  Tang,  Sung,  or 
Yuan  masters  or  philosophers  was  counted  the  high- 
est possible  education,  whether  aesthetic  or  scholastic. 
Representing  the  same  subjects  and  inspired  by  the 
same  devotional  instincts,  the  Buddhist  paintings  of 
the  two  countries  might  well  resemble  each  other  to 
the  point  of  identity.  But  it  is  strange  to  find 
among  the  secular  works  of  Chinese  artists  exact 
prototypes  of  drawings  that  hang  in  the  alcoves  of 
thousands  of  Japanese  houses,  or  form  the  decorative 
bases  of  innumerable  Japanese  objects  of  virtu.  The 
perched  hawks  and  roosting  pigeons  of  Hwei  Tsung ; 
the  swooping  cranes  and  curling  waves  of  Mih  Yuen- 
chang ;  the  beetling  cliffs,  dashing  waterfalls,  and 
rugged  trees  of  Wu  Tao-tsz ;  the  ferocious  dragons 
of  Ch'en  So-ung ;  the  marvellously  bold  and  vital 
sketches  of  Muh  Ki,  herons  flying  from  the  silk  and 


JAPAN 

boughs  waving  on  the  paper ;  the  vivid,  crisp  figure- 
subjects  and  the  exquisitely  delicate  suggestions  of 
still  life  and  landscape  by  Li  Lung-yen  ;  the  bamboos 
of  Yuh  Kien,  every  leaf  drinking  the  sunny  air  and 
every  spray  instinct  with  lustiness ;  the  eager,  timid 
wild-fowl  and  wood-birds  of  Wan  Chin  and  Wang 
Lieh-pan ;  the  tender  glimpses  of  scenic  gems  by 
Liu  Liang  and  Lu  Ki,  like  choice  stanzas  from  a 
great  poem  —  these  and  many  another  graceful 
conception,  delineated  with  such  fidelity  to  the  first 
canon  of  art  that  a  maximum  of  effect  is  produced 
with  a  minimum  of  visible  effort,  reveal  the  gallery 
where  Japanese  painters  found  their  inspiration  from 
century  to  century.  Nothing  has  ever  been  written 
that  sums  up  more  happily  and  justly  the  facts  now 
under  discussion  than  the  following  extract  from 
the  work  of  that  most  accurate  and  discriminating 
student  of  Far-Eastern  pictorial  art,  the  late  Dr. 
William  Anderson  :  — 

There  is,  perhaps,  no  section  of  art  that  has  been  so  com- 
pletely misapprehended  in  Europe  as  the  pictorial  art  of 
China.  For  us  the  Chinese  painter,  past  or  present,  is  but 
a  copyist  who  imitates  with  laborious  and  undiscriminating 
exactness  whatever  is  laid  before  him,  rejoices  in  the  display 
of  as  many  and  as  brilliant  colours  as  his  subject  and  remu- 
neration will  permit,  and  is  original  only  in  the  creation  of 
monstrosities.  Nothing  could  be  more  contrary  to  the  fact 
than  this  impression,  if  we  omit  from  consideration  the  work 
executed  for  the  foreign  market, —  work  which  every  educated 
Chinese  would  disown.  The  old  masters  of  the  Middle 
Kingdom,  who,  as  a  body,  united  grandeur  of  conception 
with  immense  power  of  execution,  cared  little  for  elabo- 
ration of  detail,  and,  except  in  Buddhist  pictures,  sought 
their  best  efforts  in  the  simplicity  of  black  and  white,  or  in 
the  most  subdued  of  chromatic  harmonies.  Their  art  was 

24 


.JJA1H3TAW    A   TA   OWOOOJ    UXAHIfl 

.udonesfiM  YB 


RIHAKU    LOOKING  AT   A    WATERFALL. 

By  Masanobu. 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

defective,  but  not  more  so  than  that  of  Europe  down  to  the 
end  of  the  thirteenth  century.  Technically  they  did  not  go 
beyond  the  use  of  water  colours,  but  in  range  and  quality  of 
pigments,  in  mechanical  command  of  pencil,  they  had  no 
reasons  to  fear  comparison  with  their  contemporaries.  They 
had  caught  only  a  glimpse  of  the  laws  of  chiaroscuro  and 
perspective,  but  the  want  of  science  was  counterpoised  by 
more  essential  elements  of  artistic  excellence.  In  motives 
they  lacked  neither  variety  nor  elevation.  As  landscape 
painters  they  anticipated  their  European  brethren  by  over  a 
score  of  generations,  and  created  transcripts  of  scenery  that 
for  breadth,  atmosphere,  and  picturesque  beauty  can  scarcely 
be  surpassed.  In  their  studies  of  the  human  figure,  although 
their  work  was  often  rich  in  vigour  and  expression,  they 
certainly  fell  immeasurably  below  the  Greeks;  but  to  counter- 
balance this  defect  no  other  artists,  except  those  of  Japan, 
have  ever  infused  into  the  delineations  of  bird  life  one  tithe 
of  the  vitality  and  action  to  be  seen  in  the  Chinese  portrait- 
ures of  the  crow,  the  sparrow,  the  crane,  and  a  hundred 
other  varieties  of  the  feathered  race.  In  flowers  the  Chinese 
were  less  successful,  owing  to  the  absence  of  true  chiaro- 
scuro, but  they  were  able  to  evolve  a  better  picture  out  of  a 
single  spray  of  blossom  than  many  a  Western  painter  from 
all  the  treasures  of  a  conservatory.  If  we  endeavour  to 
compare  the  pictorial  art  of  China  with  that  of  Europe,  we 
must  carry  ourselves  back  to  the  days  when  the  former  was 
in  its  greatness.  Of  the  art  that  preceded  the  Tang  dynasty 
we  can  say  nothing.  Like  that  of  Polygnotus,  Zeuxis,  and 
Apelles,  it  is  now  represented  only  by  traditions,  which,  if 
less  precise  in  the  former  than  in  the  latter  case,  are  not  less 
laudatory  ;  but  it  may  be  asserted  that  nothing  produced  by 
the  painters  of  Europe  between  the  seventh  and  thirteenth 
centuries  of  the  Christian  era  approaches  within  any  measur- 
able distance  of  the  works  of  the  great  Chinese  masters  who 
gave  lustre  to  the  Tang,  Sung,  and  Yuan  dynasties,  nor  — 
to  draw  a  little  nearer  to  modern  times  —  is  there  anything 
in  the  religious  art  of  Cimabue  that  would  not  appear  tame 
and  graceless  by  the  side  of  the  Buddhist  compositions  of 
Wu  Tao-tsz,  Li  Lung-yen,  and  Ngan  Hwui.  Down  to  the 

25 


JAPAN 

end  of  the  southern  Empire  in  1279  A-D->  tne  Chinese  were 
at  the  head  of  the  world  in  the  art  of  painting,  as  in  many 
other  things,  and  their  nearest  rivals  were  their  own  pupils, 
the  Japanese. 

The  question  to  be  now  considered  is  what  ad- 
vantage Japan  took  of  her  access  to  the  pictorial 
treasures  of  her  neighbour.  That  she  came  into 
possession  of  these  there  can  be  no  doubt,  for  by  the 
priests  whose  enthusiastic  zeal  impelled  them  to  make 
frequent  visits  to  the  source  of  Buddhism,  the  Middle 
Kingdom,  sacred  images  and  sacred  paintings  were 
constantly  brought  back,1  to  be  placed  in  temples  or 
presented  to  the  Palace.  Further,  that  already  in  the 
eighth  century  she  possessed  a  gallery  well  stocked, 
whether  by  her  own  artists  or  with  imported  pictures, 
is  attested  by  the  registers  of  an  ancient  temple,  To- 
dai-ji,  where  fifty  painted  screens  are  entered  as  having 
been  among  the  sacred  belongings  at  that  time ;  by 
the  treasure-book  of  the  temple  Saidai-ji,  where  there 
is  mention  of  religious  pictures  of  great  size,  —  one 
having  a  height  of  4—3  metres  with  a  width  of  3 
metres,  —  and  by  the  catalogue  of  Daio-ji,  where 
ninety  portraits  of  Buddha's  disciples  are  referred  to. 
Some  of  these  pictures  appear  to  have  been  landscapes, 
others  purely  decorative  drawings,  and  others  of  an 
essentially  religious  character  ;  but  all  were  either  of 
Chinese  origin  or  in  strict  accord  with  the  models 
and  methods  of  the  Tang  masters.  Unfortunately  few 
of  them  survive.  Such  authentic  examples  as  have 
been  handed  down,  however,  not  only  resemble 
Chinese  pictures  so  as  to  be  distinguishable  by  experts 
only,  and  by  them  with  hesitation,  but  also  indicate 
that  decorative  motives  were  borrowed  at  that  epoch 

1  See  Appendix,  note  5. 

26 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

from  almost  every  country  of  continental  Asia  as  well 
as  from  Egypt  and  Greece.  In  short,  Japan's  picto- 
rial and  decorative  art  had  not  yet  developed  any  dis- 
tinctive character.  Her  painters  were  still  living  in 
the  Chinese  studio,  not,  however,  as  altogether  im- 
mature pupils,  for  if  any  of  the  surviving  examples 
may  be  attributed  to  them,  —  as  to  which  nothing  can 
be  affirmed  with  absolute  certainty,  —  the  fact  that 
they  had  acquired  much  technical  skill,  at  all  events, 
is  placed  beyond  question. 

Originality  they  began  to  show,  according  to  the 
judgment  of  their  own  connoisseurs,  from  the  date 
(794)  of  the  transfer  of  the  Court  to  Kyoto.  In  his- 
tory, however,  there  is  nothing  to  suggest  any  special 
reason  for  a  new  departure  at  that  time.  Intercourse 
with  China,  especially  through  Buddhist  channels, 
had  grown  even  closer  than  before,  and  the  over- 
shadowing influence  of  Chinese  civilisation  found 
expression  in  the  plan  of  the  new  capital  itself,  which 
was  a  replica  of  the  Tang  metropolis.  It  is  true  that 
the  removal  of  the  Court  to  Kyoto  was  partly  due  to 
the  Emperor  Kwammu's  revolt  against  the  excessive 
sway  established  by  Buddhism  at  Nara.  But  the  effect 
of  that  policy  upon  art  —  if,  indeed,  it  exercised  any 
effect  —  would  not  have  been  to  encourage  originality 
so  much  as  to  diminish  the  vogue  enjoyed  by  relig- 
ious paintings  and  to  divert  men's  thoughts  to  secular 
pictures.  Perhaps  that  is  all  that  happened,  for  it  is 
certain  that  the  seeds  of  originality  said  to  have  been 
sown  at  the  close  of  the  eighth  century  did  not 
immediately  bear  any  palpable  fruit.  Kawanari, 
descended  from  a  Korean  immigre,  was  the  sower,  and 
of  Kawanari's  work  nothing  is  known  save  what 
tradition  tells.  His  skill  is  exalted  to  miraculous 

27 


JAPAN 

proportions  by  legends  which  show  incidentally  that 
he  painted  landscapes,  portraits,  and  other  natural  sub- 
jects, but  the  sole  and  somewhat  doubtful  outcome  of 
his  brush  that  survives  is  a  set  of  insignificant  religious 
sketches.  Nevertheless  his  countrymen  insist  that  to 
him  and  his  immediate  successor,  Kose  no  Kanaoka, 
the  merit  of  founding  a  native  school  must  be  as- 
signed. Kanaoka  has  been  placed  by  many  histori- 
ans at  the  beginning  of  Japanese  pictorial  art,  but  the 
logic  of  evolution  is  better  consulted  by  putting  him 
near  the  climax  of  an  epoch,  for  talent  such  as  he 
seems  to  have  possessed  cannot  reasonably  be  asso- 
ciated with  any  initiatory  stage  of  art  development. 
Unhappily  he  too  is  known  to  posterity  by  reputation 
only.  Several  pictures  are  indeed  ascribed  to  him, 
and,  from  the  evidence  they  furnish,  two  descriptions 
of  his  style  have  been  confidently  adduced  :  the  first 
declaring  that  delicacy  and  minuteness  were  his 
characteristics,  and  that  he  aimed  at  decorative  effect 
rather  than  at  boldness  or  vigour  ;  the  second  affirm- 
ing that,  like  the  great  Chinese  artist  Wu-Tao-tsz, 
upon  whom  he  modelled  himself,  his  conceptions 
were  as  broad  and  lofty  as  his  style  was  masculine 
and  direct.  Either  or  both  analyses  may  be  correct, 
for  the  truth  is  that  none  of  the  pictures  attributed 
to  Kanaoka  can  be  viewed  without  great  distrust. 
The  ablest  judges  agree  that  all  must  be  set  aside  as 
apocryphal,  and  that  no  materials  exist  for  an  estimate 
except  annals  which  speak  with  profound  enthusiasm 
of  the  portraits,  landscapes,  and  representations  of  ani- 
mals painted  by  him.  It  will  be  perceived,  too,  that 
there  is  nothing  in  all  this  to  indicate  a  departure 
from  Chinese  models.  The  Tang  masters  also  painted 
landscapes,  portraits,  and  animals,  and  painted  them  in 

28 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

a  manner  never  surpassed  by  the  Japanese.  In  sum, 
therefore,  nothing  can  be  confidently  affirmed  except 
that  from  the  close  of  the  eighth  century  secular  pic- 
tures began  to  be  painted  in  Japan  with  sufficient 
success  to  command  the  warm  admiration  of  connois- 
seurs whose  judgment  had  been  formed  by  study  of 
Chinese  masterpieces. 

Nor  must  it  be  imagined  that  because  Kawanari 
and  Kanaoka  laid  the  foundations  of  a  Japanese 
school  of  secular  painting,  the  religious  picture  of  the 
Chinese  school  fell  out  of  public  favour.  On  the 
contrary,  it  held  its  place  almost  as  firmly  as  ever. 
Buddhist  priests  became  famous  artists  as  well  as  ethi- 
cal teachers,  and,  visiting  China  in  constantly  increas- 
ing numbers,  saw  models  there  which  they  hastened 
to  copy  or  procured  pictures  which  they  carried  to 
Japan.  The  central  figure  of  these  enthusiasts  was 
Kukai,  better  known  by  his  posthumous  title  of  Kobo 
Daishi  (790-840),  the  greatest  priest  in  Japanese  his- 
tory. Repairing  to  China  to  complete  his  religious 
studies,  he  had  an  opportunity  of  witnessing  the 
civilisation  of  the  Tang  dynasty,  and  on  his  return 
to  Japan  he  set  himself  to  propagate,  under  official 
auspices,  a  doctrine  (the  Mikkio},  which  depended 
largely  on  appeals  to  the  sensuous  side  of  human 
nature,  and  enlisted  in  its  services  whatever  aids  were 
furnished  by  the  beautiful,  the  gorgeous,  and  the 
picturesque.  In  painting  and  in  sculpture  alike  he 
attained  high  renown,  and  his  century  is  further 
illuminated  by  the  names  of  Saicho  (commonly  called 
Dengyo  Daishi),  Jitsuye,  Yenchin,  and  one  or  two 
other  priests  reputed  to  have  been  great  artists.  But 
posterity  knows  them  in  the  pages  of  history  alone. 
Their  works  have  not  survived.  Not  more  than  three 

29 


JAPAN 

pictures  now  remaining,  or  at  most  four,  can  be  con- 
fidently attributed  to  the  gallery  of  the  ninth  century, 
and  among  them  one  alone  is  identifiable  as  the  produc- 
tion of  a  particular  artist.  It  is  from  Kukai's  brush, 
a  portrait  of  his  hierarch,  Gonso,  painted  with  suffi- 
cient vigour  and  feeling  to  show  that  already  in  the 
ninth  century  the  religious  artists  of  Japan  stood  on  a 
plane  of  high  achievement,  and  that  the  enthusiastic 
eulogies  bestowed  by  tradition  on  their  secular  con- 
temporaries, Kawanari  and  Kanaoka,  were  doubtless 
not  undeserved. 

It  may  be  noted  here  of  all  Japanese  painters  down 
to  the  twelfth  century,  perhaps  even  down  to  the 
thirteenth,  that  they  regarded  the  religious  picture 
as  the  field  of  highest  achievement,  and  that,  when 
their  subject  was  a  Buddhist  divinity,  a  Nirvana,  an 
Arhat,  or  a  Rishi,  they  sought  inspiration  either 
directly  from  the  Chinese  masters  or  indirectly  from 
the  latter's  most  famous  disciples.  Religious  paint- 
ings, like  religious  propagandism,  appeal  either  to  the 
intellect  or  to  the  senses.  Pictures  of  the  former  class 
are,  of  course,  the  exception  ;  those  of  the  latter,  the 
rule.  The  characteristics  of  Japanese  Buddhist  paint- 
ings in  general  are  the  characteristics  of  the  illumi- 
nated missal :  a  rich  display  of  gold  and  of  glowing 
but  harmonious  colours,  with  conventional  drawing, 
complete  absence  of  chiaroscuro,  apparent  errors  of 
anatomy,  and  faithful  observance  of  traditional  types. 
Sometimes,  however,  just  as  the  noble  thoughts  of  a 
great  preacher  impart  new  and  lofty  aspects  to  the 
familiar  faith  he  inculcates,  so  Buddhist  pictures  from 
a  master  hand  cease  to  be  a  mere  repetition  of  hack- 
neyed types,  and  reveal  glimpses  of  a  world  of  divine 
inspirations  and  emotions.  Thus  it  happens  that 

30 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

several  names  —  above  all,  those  of  Hirotaka  and 
Meicho  (commonly  called  Cho  Dense)  —  are  specially 
celebrated  for  paintings  of  this  class,  but  the  student 
will  find  that  Japan's  best  artists  in  all  ages  contrib- 
uted their  quota  to  the  pictorial  treasures  of  the 
temples,  and  that  not  until  after  the  twelfth  century 
did  the  secular  picture  rise  to  a  place  of  fully  equal 
importance  with  the  sacred. 

Considering  what  a  small  number  of  authenticated 
pictures  offer  themselves  for  examination,  an  attempt 
to  distinguish  between  the  technical  characteristics  of 
the  religious,  or  Chinese,  and  the  secular,  or  Japanese, 
schools  at  this  early  stage  may  seem  unwarranted. 
The  distinction  is  made,  however,  by  Japanese 
connoisseurs,  and  finds  confirmation  in  later  evidence. 
The  secular  artist,  they  say,  held  his  brush  oblique, 
and  aimed  at  a  light  and  fine  style  of  delineation, 
choosing  simple  and  tender  colours.  The  religious 
artist  held  his  brush  perpendicular  ;  sought  accuracy 
before  everything;  did  not  attempt  to  vary  the 
thickness  of  his  strokes,  and  used  stronger  colours 
than  his  secular  confrere.  Such  a  verdict,  it  may  be 
remarked,  harmonises  exactly  with  the  indications 
furnished  by  the  calligraphical  styles  of  the  Chinese 
and  the  Japanese.  Both  starting  from  the  same 
point,  one  nation  preserved  the  square,  formal,  and 
mathematically  exact  type  of  ideograph,  whereas  the 
other  developed  a  cursive,  graceful,  and  unconventional 
script. 

The  divergence  of  the  Japanese  secular  artist's 
brush  from  strictly  Chinese  lines  gradually  became  so 
marked  that,  in  about  a  hundred  years  from  the  time 
of  Kanaoka,  —  that  is  to  say,  in  the  middle  of  the 
tenth  century,  —  the  public  clearly  recognised  the 


JAPAN 

existence  of  a  native  school,  and  called  it  Yamato-riu, 
or  Waga-riuy  synonyms  for  "  Japanese  style."  The 
reported  founder  of  the  school  was  Kasuga  Motomitsu, 
but  from  what  has  been  related  here  it  will  be  seen 
that  his  genius  represented  the  outcome  of  a  tendency 
rather  than  its  origin.  He  did  not  suggest  the  new 
route,  but  showed  rather  what  could  be  achieved  by 
following  the  route  that  Kawanari  and  Kanaoka  had 
already  indicated.  Artists  are  necessarily  swayed  in 
their  choice  of  motives  by  the  circumstances  of  their 
era.  As  the  city  of  Kyoto  grew  in  wealth  and 
luxury,  its  social  life  gradually  ceased  to  be  over- 
shadowed by  religious  influences,  and  for  the  decora- 
tion of  screens  and  sliding  doors  in  palaces  and 
mansions  people  began  to  desire  representations  of 
natural  scenery,  of  festivals,  of  flowery  landscapes,  and 
of  such  other  subjects  as  might  reflect  and  harmonise 
with  the  refined  and  voluptuous  habits  of  their  ex- 
istence. It  is  thus  in  the  direction  of  motives,  not  of 
technique,  that  the  new  departure  can  be  traced  most 
clearly,  the  artist  no  longer  seeking  inspiration  in  the 
field  of  sacred  mythology,  but  turning  rather  to  the 
realm  of  every-day  life,  —  court  ceremonials,  legendary 
lore,  incidents  in  the  biographies  of  celebrated  men, 
episodes  suggested  by  poetry  or  history,  and  scenic 
gems.  In  short,  decorative  beauty  had  to  be  con- 
sidered by  the  Yamato  artists  at  least  as  much  as 
pictorial  excellence,  one  consequence  of  which  neces- 
sity was  that  they  gradually  began  to  use  fuller-bodied 
tints,  and  to  contrive  that  a  picture  should  produce 
a  general  effect  as  well  as  a  special  ;  in  other  words, 
that  when  seen  from  a  distance  too  great  to  distinguish 
details,  it  should  still  be  delightful  as  a  scheme  of 
harmonised  colours.  In  the  hands  of  great  masters 

32 


HERON. 

By  Ssishiu. 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

a  picture  often  assumed  this  dual  character  with 
admirable  success,  but  the  abuses  of  the  conception 
were  sometimes  shocking.  They  grew  more  marked 
as  the  school  advanced  in  age,  and  ultimately  the 
elements  of  a  painting  came  to  be  disposed  with  such 
care  for  decorative  effect  that  the  coloured  areas  con- 
veyed a  suggestion  of  diapers  or  brocaded  patterns. 
Such  freaks,  however,  did  not  obtain  vogue  until  the 
sixteenth  century,  and  were  confined  chiefly  to  what 
may  be  called  the  book  illustrations  of  the  time  ; 
namely,  paintings  on  interminably  long  scrolls  in- 
scribed with  historical  or  biographical  records.1 

The  Yamato  artists  are  often  said  to  have  failed 
signally  in  their  delineations  of  the  human  figure  ;  to 
have  followed  traditional  types,  generally  ungraceful 
and  unnatural,  and  to  have  drawn  faces,  legs,  and 
arms  that  seldom  approximated  to  correctness.  That 
criticism  must  not  be  accepted  too  implicitly.  It  is 
certainly  true  when  applied  to  the  work  done  by  the 
rank  and  file  of  the  school  ;  but  in  the  case  of  the 
masters  close  examination  generally  reveals  that 
the  outlines  of  their  figures  diverge,  not  from  the 
standard  of  absolute  correctness,  but  from  the  standard 
which  the  critic  himself  has  been  accustomed  to 
regard  as  normal.  They  show  lines  which  assuredly 
exist  in  nature,  but  which  are  not  the  lines  that 
Europeans  and  Americans  have  taught  themselves  to 
consider  salient. 

The  Yamato  school  is  sometimes  spoken  of  as  the 
Kasuga,  after  its  alleged  founder  Kasuga  Motomitsu, 
and  sometimes  the  Kasuga  is  regarded  as  a  branch  of 
the  Yamato.  From  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth 
century  the  name  was  changed  to  Tosa-riu,  the  prin- 

1  See  Appendix,  note  6. 

VOL.    VII. 3  -5-5 


JAPAN 

cipal  representative  of  the  academy  at  that  time 
having  been  honoured  with  the  title  of  Tosa  Gon-no- 
kumi.  Thenceforth  through  every  era  the  successive 
artists  of  the  school  bore  the  family  name  "  Tosa." 
Japanese  connoisseurs  maintain  that  for  a  time  the 
styles  of  the  Kasuga  and  the  Tosa  could  be  clearly 
differentiated,  the  former  being  distinguished  by  its 
fine  and  flowing  brush-work,  the  latter  by  the  bold- 
ness, firmness,  and  directness  of  its  touch.  But  these 
differences  soon  became  imperceptible,  and  that  they 
had  ever  existed  was  forgotten  by  all  except  the 
keenest  critics.  The  characteristics  of  the  Tosa 
masters  were  magnificent  combinations  of  colours 
and  remarkable  skill  of  composition.  They  may  be 
called  decorators  and  illustrators  rather  than  painters 
of  pictures  as  the  term  is  generally  understood,  for 
their  best  work  is  found  on  screens,  sliding  doors,  and 
historical  or  legendary  scrolls.  Indeed,  as  historical 
illustrators  they  are  quite  peerless,  for  in  no  other 
country  can  be  found  pictorial  annals  such  as  those 
with  which  they  enriched  Japan  during  the  twelfth 
and  thirteenth  centuries  and  the  first  half  of  the 
fourteenth.  A  long  list  of  illustrious  names  belongs 
to  that  era,  culminating  in  the  fourteenth  century 
with  Takashima  Takekane,  of  whom  his  countrymen 
allege  that  among  all  the  crowded  scenes  of  court, 
camp,  and  domestic  life  depicted  on  his  scrolls,  no  two 
show  the  same  grouping. 

Although  the  records  indicate  that  Kose  no  Kana- 
oka  followed  Kawanari  in  popularising  secular,  or 
Japanese,  pictures,  the  Kose  school  subsequently  came 
to  be  regarded  as  representing  the  Chinese  style,  the 
works  of  its  masters  being  in  marked  accord  with  what 
were  known  as  classical  canons.  Several  of  those 

34 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

masters  had  the  honour  of  holding  the  position  of 
"  painter  laureate  "  (edokoro),  a  post  created  in  the  year 
808.  After  Kanaoka  the  greatest  artist  of  the  school 
during  the  Heian  epoch  —  namely,  from  the  ninth 
to  the  twelfth  century  —  was  Hirotaka,  a  prince  of 
the  blood,  whose  works  are  said  to  have  stood  out 
from  the  canvas  like  living  pictures.  He  occupied 
himself  chiefly  with  religious  pictures,  whereas  two 
other  masters  of  the  school  at  the  same  epoch,  Kintada 
and  Kimmochi,  became  celebrated  for  landscape  paint- 
ing, the  former  choosing  Chinese  scenes,  the  latter 
Japanese.  Other  renowned  artists  of  the  Kose  school 
in  the  same  epoch  were  Koreshige  and  Nobushige. 

A  branch  of  the  Kose  school,  namely,  the  Takuma, 
is  distinguished  by  Japanese  connoisseurs,  but  in  truth 
the  only  appreciable  difference  is  that  the  Takuma  mas- 
ters, following  the  methods  of  the  Sung  painters  of 
China,  carried  the  decorative  features  of  their  relig- 
ious paintings  to  a  degree  of  unprecedented  splendour 
and  elaboration.  Takuma  Tamenari  founded  the 
school  in  the  middle  of  the  eleventh  century,  and  his 
greatest  work,  still  extant  though  much  defaced  by 
time,  was  the  decoration  of  the  walls  and  doors  of 
the  temple  Biyodo-in  at  Uji,  on  which  occasion  he 
chose  for  subjects  the  nine  circles  of  the  Buddhist 
paradise  and  eight  effigies  of  Shaka.  The  bold  and 
brilliant  style  thus  inaugurated  found  great  exponents 
in  later  ages,  but  can  scarcely  be  said  to  have  preserved 
its  individuality  after  the  fourteenth  century. 

These  different  schools  —  the  Kose,  the  Takuma,  the 
Kasuga,  and  the  Tosa  —  have  been  mentioned  here 
because  their  names  are  on  the  lips  of  every  Japanese 
connoisseur.  But,  for  purposes  of  intelligent  under- 
standing, the  qualities  and  characteristics  of  the  four 

35 


JAPAN 

may  be  synthesised  into  a  statement  that  their  works 
had  one  of  three  objects,  —  to  promote  religious  pur- 
poses, to  decorate  the  interiors  of  temples  or  mansions, 
and  to  illustrate  scrolls  or  illuminate  missals.  The 
picture  for  its  own  sake  did  not  yet  exist. 

In  the  twelfth  century  was  born  a  style  of  art  en- 
tirely  independent   of    foreign    inspiration.      It   con- 
sisted of  humorous  sketches,  in  which  not  merely  the 
motives  but  also  the  drawing  was  burlesqued.     The 
Japanese    have  never  been  notably  skilful  caricaturists. 
Even  in  modern  times  their  attempts  to  produce  comic 
publications  after  the  fashion  of  Punch  or  Life  are  not 
successful,  owing  to  their  persistent  inability  to  pre- 
serve a  likeness  while   distorting  it.      In  the  Toba-ye, 
as  humorous  pictures  were  called  after  their  origina- 
tor—  the  Priest  of  the  Toba  Monastery   (Toba  Sojo), 
otherwise  Minamoto  no    Kakuyu  —  particular   emo- 
tions were  emphasised   by  exaggerating  the  part  of 
the  body  affected  by  them,  so  that  accuracy  of  draw- 
ing, in  the  Occidental  sense  of  the  term,  became  a 
secondary  consideration.      Kakuyu,   though  generally 
remembered  only  as  the  father  of  this  school,  distin- 
guished himself  highly  as  a  painter  of  religious  and 
secular  (Tamato)  pictures,  and  the  authenticated  speci- 
mens, a  very    few   rolls,  of  his  comic  drawings  that 
have  been   handed   down    to    posterity,    show    much 
power  of  brush  and  play  of    fancy.      He  had  a  host 
of  successors  in  every  age,  the  majority  immeasurably 
inferior,  some  even  greater  than  himself,   and   many 
whose  style  differed  so  essentially  from  his  that  they 
had  nothing  in   common  with  him    except    a    keen 
sense  of   humour.      To  appreciate  the  work  of  this 
school,  it  is  necessary  to  have  an  intimate  knowledge 
of  Japanese  legends,  folk-lore,  proverbs,  history,  and 

36 


GROUP  OF  MONKEYS. 

By  Sosen. 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

customs,  all  of  which  the  Toba-ye  artist  illustrated. 
It  is  also  necessary  to  remember  the  art  axiom  that  in 
naturalistic  drawing  accuracy  of  proportion  and  beauty 
of  line  are  properly  sacrificed  to  the  appearance  of 
life.  From  the  time  of  Toba  Sojo  to  the  days  of 
Hokusai  and  Kyosai,  the  Japanese  humorous  painter 
always  recognised  that  his  first  duty  was  to  give  the 
character  —  the  burlesque,  laughter-provoking  char- 
acter —  of  the  objects  he  depicted,  and  that  if  he  suc- 
ceeded in  conveying  a  strong  and  immediate  impression 
of  that  character,  his  purpose  was  accomplished, 
even  though  his  lines  were  classically  incorrect.  In 
short,  his  work  forcibly  illustrates  the  principle  that 
whereas  line  in  classic  drawing  is  generally  attained 
at  the  expense  of  life,  life  in  naturalistic  drawing  is 
often  attained  at  the  expense  of  line. 

In  the  fourteenth  century  Japanese  art  reverted  to  its 
old  source  of  inspiration,  China.  This  movement 
was  headed  by  Josetsu,  who  took  for  models  the  mas- 
terpieces of  the  Middle  Kingdom's  artists  at  the  close  of 
the  Sung  and  the  beginning  of  the  Yuan  dynasty,  so  that 
to  the  school  thus  established  was  given  the  name  of 
So-gen  (Chinese,  Sung-yuari).  Josetsu  was  a  priest  of 
the  Zen  sect  of  Buddhism,  just  then  beginning  to 
gain  disciples  on  a  large  scale  in  Japan,  and  he  is  also 
said  to  have  been  of  Chinese  origin.  There  are  some 
close  students  who  deny  to  him  the  title  of  having  led 
the  Chinese  renaissance  in  Japan.  They  claim  that 
honour  equally  for  another  naturalised  Chinese  artist, 
Shoga  Shiubun,  and  for  a  predecessor  of  both,  Nen 
Kawo.  The  fact  is,  that  the  tendency  of  the  time  was 
responsible  rather  than  the  genius  of  an  individual. 
Readers  of  Japanese  history  know  that  feudalism  was 
established  in  the  thirteenth  century,  and  that  in  the 

37 


JAPAN 

fourteenth  all  society  had  become  permeated  with 
the  military  spirit.  The  canons  of  the  bushi  were 
the  ethics  of  the  era,  and  the  austere  philosophy  of  the 
Zen  creed  commended  itself  to  a  large  section  of  the 
educated  class.  It  was  natural  that  this  change  should 
be  reflected  in  the  region  of  aesthetics,  and  since  Chi- 
nese art  happened  to  be  passing  at  the  time  through 
a  phase  which  accorded  excellently  with  Japan's 
mood,  the  old  relation  of  pupil  and  teacher  was  re- 
established insensibly  without  a  strong  initiative  on 
the  part  of  any  special  artist.  The  style  of  painting 
then  inaugurated  found  its  chief  expression  in  mono- 
chromatic, or  lightly  coloured,  landscapes  and  sea- 
scapes of  great  delicacy,  fidelity,  and  beauty,  and  in 
wonderfully  lifelike,  vigorous  sketches  of  birds, 
flowers,  and  foliage. 

It  is  characteristic  of  this  school,  which  has  had 
numerous  representatives  in  every  era  since  its  foun- 
dation by  the  emigrant  monks  of  Kyoto,  that  its 
motives,  like  its  style,  were  generally  exotic.  Until 
modern  times,  the  Japanese  usually  loved  to  derive 
examples  of  chivalry,  of  statesmanship,  of  warlike 
prowess,  of  philosophy,  of  filial  piety,  of  feudal  de- 
votion, and  of  legendary  folk-lore  from  the  annals 
of  the  Middle  Kingdom.  Hence  the  artists  of  the 
fourteenth-century  renaissance,  and  their  followers  in 
almost  every  era,  chose  Chinese  motives  for  their  pic- 
tures, and  instead  of  drawing  inspiration  direct  from 
the  exquisite  scenery  of  their  own  country  and  the 
noble  acts  of  their  own  countrymen  and  country- 
women, were  content  to  copy  Chinese  ideals  of  land- 
scape, and  to  devote  themselves  to  illustrating  Chinese 
traditions.  It  is  easy  to  conceive  what  a  despotism 
of  methods,  of  mannerisms,  and  of  conventionali- 

38 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

ties  would  reign  in  such  a  school.  Just  as  West's 
great  picture  of  Wolfe's  death  was  supposed  to  vio- 
late all  the  proprieties  of  art  because  the  figures  were 
depicted  in  eighteenth-century  coats  and  hats  instead 
of  in  Grecian  "  drapery "  or  Roman  togas,  so  the 
Japanese  disciple  of  the  Chinese  school  had  to  obey 
canons  which  cramped  his  originality  and  were  only 
saved  from  becoming  anachronistic  by  the  imme- 
morial conservatism  of  the  Chinese  nation.  Con- 
cerning the  excellences  of  this  school,  it  may  be  said 
that,  apart  from  force,  directness,  and  delicacy  of  line, 
which  are  common  to  all  Japanese  masters,  there  is  a 
really  remarkable  sense  of  "  values ;"  a  subtle  atten- 
tion to  colour  gradations  and  atmospheric  conditions, 
which  would  have  given  almost  perfect  results  had 
the  principle  been  uniformly  recognised  that  nature 
does  not  show  accented  outlines,  that  edges  are  never 
the  deepest  notes  of  colour  in  her  landscapes  and  sea- 
scapes. A  very  appreciative  paragraph  from  An- 
derson's "  Pictorial  Arts  of  Japan  "  may  be  quoted 
here :  — 

The  Chinese  artist  was  often  remarkably  felicitous  in  the 
renderings  of  the  wilder  forms  of  picturesque  beauty 'in  land- 
scape. Silvery  cascades  ;  tranquil  pools  and  winding  streams  ; 
towering  silicic  peaks  and  rugged  headlands ;  gnarled  fan- 
tastic pines  and  plum-trees,  side  by  side  with  the  graceful 
forms  and  feathery  foliage  of  the  bamboo  ;  mansions  or 
pavilions,  gorgeous  in  vermilion  and  gold,  crowning  the 
heights  or  bordering  the  expanse  of  an  inland  lake,  and 
rustic  cottages  with  straw-thatched  roofs  nestling  in  the  cul- 
tivated valleys  :  these  were  elements  that  the  painter  could 
assort  and  reconstruct  into  a  thousand  pictures  of  never- 
failing  interest  and  beauty.  The  Japanese  painters  of  the 
classical  schools,  seduced  by  the  charm  of  the  foreign  ideal, 
were  often  led  to  neglect  the  familiar  attractions  of  their  own 

39 


JAPAN 

scenery,  and  without  having  beheld  any  of  the  spots  depicted 
by  the  old  landscape-masters  of  China,  squandered  an  infin- 
ity of  talent  and  ingenuity  in  building  up  new  creations  of 
their  own  with  the  material  borrowed  at  second  hand  from 
their  neighbours. 

Connoisseurs  are  wont  to  divide  into  three  great 
streams  the  flood  of  Chinese  renaissance  that  invaded 
Japan  in  the  fifteenth  century ;  the  purely  Chinese 
stream,  just  spoken  of  as  springing  from  Josetsu  and 
Shiubun  ;  the  Sesshiu  stream,  springing  from  Sesshiu, 
whom  many  count  the  most  colossal  figure  in  Jap- 
anese art  ;  and  the  Kano  stream,  springing  from 
Masanobu  and  Motonobu,  who,  whether  they  rank 
above  or  below  Sesshiu,  certainly  founded  the  chief 
academy  of  Japanese  painters.  The  reader  will  at 
once  seek  some  explanation  of  the  reasons  underlying 
this  division.  It  is  difficult  to  give  any  that  can  be 
called  satisfactory.  As  to  Sesshiu,  some  Japanese  con- 
noisseurs claim  that  he  developed  a  peculiar  style  of 
his  own,  untrammelled  by  classical  conditions.  To 
Occidental  eyes,  however,  this  independence  is  not 
easily  apparent.  He  adhered  to  Chinese  motives  and 
Chinese  methods  as  faithfully  as  did  Shiubun  and  his 
disciples,  and  no  dictum  appears  truer  than  that  Sesshiu 
was  "  the  open  door  through  which  all  contemporary 
and  subsequent  artists  looked  into  the  seventh  heaven 
of  Chinese  genius.'*  Masanobu  and  Motonobu,  the 
founders  of  the  Kano  school,  were  not  less  "  classic  " 
than  Sesshiu.  In  the  works  of  all  three  masters, 
though  in  varying  degree,  there  are  found  the  noble 
breadth  of  design,  the  subtle  relationship  of  tones,  the 
splendid  calligraphic  force  and  the  "all-pervading 
sense  of  poetry  "  that  constituted  the  highest  features 
of  Chinese  pictorial  art  in  the  Tang,  Sung,  and  Yuan 

40 


.WO/18   3HT  VIO  THOIJKOOM 

.udonotoM 


MOONLIGHT  ON  THE  SNOW. 

By  Motonobu. 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

epochs.  For  all  purposes  of  true  appreciation  it 
seems  sufficient  to  say  that  the  fifteenth  century  was 
the  culminating  period  of  Chinese  pictorial  art 
in  Japan,  and  that  its  giant  figures,  Shiubun, 
Sesshiu,  Masanobu,  and  Motonobu,  though  they 
stand  at  the  head  of  three  distinct  lines  of  artists, 
drew  their  inspiration  from  the  same  source  and 
set  before  themselves  the  same  ideals.  Motonobu's 
masterpieces  had  the  special  excellence  of  being  free 
from  the  hard  outlines  which  in  Sesshiu's  pictures 
offend  against  natural  laws ;  but  this  superiority  is 
partly  balanced  by  loss  of  vigour  and  massiveness. 

The  immediate  object  of  these  notes  being  to  trace 
the  development  of  Japanese  art  itself,  not  the  his- 
tory of  Japanese  artists,  reference  is  omitted  to  the 
names  of  several  great  disciples  upon  whom  the  mantle 
of  the  four  renaissance  masters  fell,  and  the  reader  is 
invited  to  pass  at  once  to  the  closing  years  of  the 
sixteenth  century,  when  a  new  departure  was  made  by 
two  leaders  of  the  Kano  school,  Eitoku  and  Sanraku. 
It  has  been  shown  above  that  pure  Chinese  influence 
reached  its  first  culminating  point  in  the  ninth  century, 
when  Kose  no  Kanaoka  won  immortal  fame,  and  that 
his  classical  style  continued  to  monopolise  the  field  of 
pictorial  art  until  the  eleventh  century,  when  Moto- 
mitsu  founded  the  Yamato,  or  Japanese  school,  which 
subsequently  developed  decorative  characteristics,  and 
finally,  in  the  hands  of  the  Tosa  masters,  became 
more  remarkable  for  rich  colour  harmonies  and  gor- 
geous illuminations  than  for  any  of  the  qualities  rec- 
ognised by  classical  canons.  So,  too,  it  is  found  that 
the  rebirth  of  Chinese  influence  in  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury, which  speedily  reached  the  zenith  of  its  glory 
in  the  hands  of  Sesshiu,  was  followed,  within  less 

41 


JAPAN 

than  two  hundred  years,  by  a  decorative  impulse  pre- 
cisely analogous  to  that  represented  by  the  genesis  and 
growth  of  the  Yamato  school.  Eitoku  and.  Sanraku 
introduced  this  decorative  method  in  the  Kano  acad- 
emies at  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  century,  just  as 
the  internecine  wars  by  which  the  country  had  been 
tortured  for  five  hundred  years  were  drawing  to  a  close, 
and  feudal  castles  and  noblemen's  residences  of  un- 
precedented massiveness  and  magnificence  were  begin- 
ning to  be  built  throughout  the  Empire.  Eitoku 
created,  perhaps,  the  greatest  purely  decorative  style 
of  painting  that  the  East  has  ever  produced.  His 
style  accurately  reflected  the  fashions  and  tendencies 
of  his  time,  when,  under  the  rule  of  Hideyoshi,  the 
administrative  power  began  to  be  associated  with  dis- 
plays of  imposing  magnificence,  and  when  asstheticism, 
officially  inspired,  found  expression  in  the  lavish  adorn- 
ment of  castles,  temples,  and  palaces,  and  in  the 
construction  of  beautiful  parks.  On  the  walls  and  slid- 
ing-doors  of  these  edifices,  Eitoku,  Sanraku,  and  their 
fellows  produced  pictures  glowing  with  gold  and  rich 
colour-harmonies.  The  decorative  artists  that  preceded 
them  had  used  the  precious  metal  sparingly  for  pick- 
ing out  designs,  whereas  they  employed  it  to  form 
wide  fields  on  which  they  painted  episodes  of  war, 
phases  of  aristocratic  life,  or  subjects  taken  from  the 
kingdom  of  flowers  and  foliage,  the  ensemble  conveying 
a  suggestion  of  rich  gems  clustered  in  broad  areas  of 
mellow  gold. 

Perhaps  it  should  be  added  here  that  though  the 
decorative  mode  represented  by  the  Yamato-Tosa 
school  undoubtedly  preceded  that  of  the  Kano  school, 
the  former  began  to  be  strongly  conspicuous  almost 
simultaneously  with  the  development  of  the  latter, 

42 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

and  both  are  to  be  traced  to  the  political  and  economic 
conditions  of  the  time  rather  than  to  any  independent 
art  impulse.  The  whole  period  of  the  Tokugawa 
Regency's  sway  —  that  is  to  say,  the  seventeenth  and 
eighteenth  centuries  and  the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth 
—  was  marked  by  profound  peace  and  by  the  spread 
of  luxurious  habits  hitherto  confined  to  the  great 
administrative  families  in  the  Imperial  capital.  The 
applied  arts  certainly  attained  their  highest  develop- 
ment during  those  centuries,  and  it  is  probably  safe  to 
say  that  in  no  other  country  nor  at  any  other  epoch, 
ancient  or  modern,  were  the  services  of  pictorial  art 
so  widely  and  so  successfully  employed  for  decorative 
purposes.  Further,  from  the  beginning  of  the  seven- 
teenth century,  a  patriotic  reaction  can  be  traced 
against  the  slavish  adherence  of  the  classical  schools 
to  Chinese  motives  and  methods,  and  a  growing 
impulse  to  favour  the  work  of  the  Kano  and  Tosa 
masters,  who  chose  Japanese  subjects  and  attached  to 
the  decorative  quality  in  their  pictures  importance 
which  brought  them  into  close  touch  with  the  archi- 
tectural developments  of  the  time.  Doubtless  this 
taste  for  exquisite  harmonies  of  colour  and  glowing 
yet  tender  tints,  grand  illustrations  of  which  may  be 
seen  in  the  interior  decoration  of  temples,  palaces, 
and  mansions,  owed  something  to  a  contemporaneous 
change  in  Chinese  pictorial  methods,  —  a  change  from 
the  noble  simplicity  and  force  of  the  Tang,  Sung,  and 
Yuan  monochromes  to  the  strong,  full-bodied  colours 
and  microscopically  elaborate  style  of  the  later  Ming 
pictures.  But  the  influence  of  Chinese  artists  was  not 
a  prime  factor  in  the  movement :  it  must  be  regarded 
rather  as  a  reflection  of  the  development  of  Japanese 
civilisation  under  the  Tokugawa  Regents,  the  ten- 

43 


JAPAN 

dency,  if  not  the  aim,  of  whose  policy  was  to  culti- 
vate the  growth  of  an  effeminate,  splendour-loving 
mood  among  the  aristocratic  classes  in  lieu  of  the 
fiercely  ambitious  temper  of  medieval  militarism. 

The  sequence  of  development  arrives  now  at  the 

Ukiyo-ye  Riu,  or  « Popular  school,"   as    it  has   been 

generally  called  by  Western  critics.      The  word  ukiyo 

literally  signifies  "floating  world  ;"  that  is  to  say,  this 

transient  world,  or  every-day  life.      Hence,   when  a 

Japanese  speaks  of  ukiyo-ye   (ye  signifies  picture)  he 

means    simply   genre    paintings — representations    of 

persons  and    things    that    belong    to    the    ephemeral 

scenes  among  which  the  artist  moves.      It  is  generally 

alleged    that    the  so-called    Popular   school   owed   its 

origin  to  Iwasa  Matahei,  a  painter  who  flourished  in 

the  second  half  of  the  sixteenth    century.      But  the 

statement  is  somewhat   misleading.      A  careful  reader 

of  what  has  been  written  above  will  see  that,  from 

the  beginning  of  the  thirteenth   century,  incidents  of 

national  life  furnished  to  the  Tosa  masters  their  chief 

motives,  and  that,  down  to  the  Chinese  renaissance  in 

the  fifteenth  century,  artists  did  not  hesitate  to  seek 

subjects  for   delineation   in    the    daily    doings   of  the 

plebeian    classes.     Even    the    great    founders    of  the 

Kano  school,  men  whose  works  support  comparison 

with  the  masterpieces  of  Chinese  genius,  had  no  fear 

of    degrading    their    art    or    alienating     aristocratic 

patronage    when    they    depicted    episodes    from    the 

kitchen,  the  stable,  the  farmyard,  and  the  workshop. 

The  truth  is,  that  in  the  rise  and  development  of  the 

Popular   school    must   be  traced,    not    a   new  artistic 

departure,   but    simply   a    reflection    of   the    changes 

which   the    civilisation    of  the   era   was   undergoing. 

From  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century,  the  actor,  the 

44 


.33IH    QVIA   JIAU9 


QUAIL   AND    RICE. 

By  Tosa. 


m- 

/    *>. •>• 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

courtesan,  and  the  danseuse  began  to  occupy  an  un- 
precedented place  in  every-day  life,  and  became  the 
centres  of  a  voluptuous  aestheticism  which  constantly 
presented  new  spectacular  attractions  for  dilettanti,  and 
made  new  appeals  to  the  artistic  as  well  as  the  sensu- 
ous instincts  of  the  people.  Matahei  caught  the  first 
note  of  this  innovation  and  fixed  it  pictorially  with 
wonderful  fidelity.  The  figure-subjects  which  con- 
stitute his  specialty  are  instinct  with  refined  sensuality 
and  graceful  abandon.  He  introduces  his  public  to  a 
life  where  dancing,  music,  and  sybaritism  in  every 
form  are  beginning  to  take  the  place  of  politics  and 
war,  and  where  even  the  strong  contours  of  the  male 
figure  show  a  tendency  to  merge  into  the  soft  curves 
of  the  female.  He  did  not  succeed,  however,  in 
transmitting  his  inspiration  to  any  of  his  pupils  or 
immediate  successors,  and  it  was  not  till  the  close  of 
the  seventeenth  century,  when  Hishigawa  Moronobu 
employed  the  art  of  wood-engraving  to  bring  the 
ukiyo-ye  within  reach  of  the  masses,  that  the  Popular 
school  began  to  assume  a  really  important  place,  and 
to  associate  itself  directly  with  the  production  of 
chromo-xylographs  which  are  now  the  wonder  and 
the  delight  of  Western  collectors.  The  story  of  the 
chromo-xylographic  development  and  of  the  wealth 
of  artistic  treasures  and  technical  triumphs  that  it  has 
bequeathed  to  Japan,  deserves  an  independent  treatise, 
but  it  is  not  possible  here  to  note  more  than  the  most 
salient  facts. 

There  is  some  uncertainty  about  the  origin  of 
wood-engraving  in  Japan.  It  is  generally  attributed 
to  the  ninth  century.  That  would  make  it  fully  a 
hundred  years  subsequent  to  the  introduction  of  block- 
printing,  which  came  from  China  certainly  not  later 

45 


JAPAN 

than  the  middle  of  the  eighth  century.  Nothing 
like  proficiency  was  attained,  however,  until  the  time 
(1320)  of  a  priest  named  Rydkin,  and  even  his  pro- 
ductions—  a  few  of  which  are  extant  —  derive  interest 
from  their  period  rather  than  their  quality.1  All  the 
motives  of  the  early  woodcuts  were  religious.  The 
blocks,  being  preserved  in  temples,  served  for  printing 
pictures  of  deities  which  were  distributed  to  pilgrim 
worshippers.  Apparently  the  idea  of  using  engrav- 
ings for  illustrating  printed  matter  did  not  suggest 
itself  until  the  sixteenth  century,  but  from  that  time 
woodcuts  began  to  be  freely  inserted  in  the  pages  of 
historical  romances,  poetical  anthologies,  and  other 
kinds  of  literature.  These  pictures  were  not  remark- 
able. Draughtsmen  of  talent  did  not  concern  them- 
selves in  their  production,  and  it  was  not  until  the 
last  quarter  of  the  seventeenth  century  that  xylogra- 
phy began  to  be  applied  to  really  artistic  purposes. 
Hishigawa  Moronobu  and  Okamura  Masanobu  were 
the  two  artists  who  supplied  drawings  for  this  new 
departure.  Their  work  was  vigorous,  their  composi- 
tion clever,  and  the  engraver  did  his  part  so  well  that 
woodcuts  of  really  high  merit  were  produced. 
Almost  immediately  the  potentialities  of  this  branch 
of  art  were  recognised,  and  a  number  of  very  beauti- 
ful albums  appeared,  chiefly  from  the  brushes  of  Ooka 
Shunboku  and  Tachibana  no  Morikumi.  They  con- 
tained accurate  copies  of  pictures  by  the  great  Chinese 
and  Japanese  masters  of  previous  eras,  as  well  as 
lessons  for  young  painters  and  suggestions  for  decora- 
tive designs  covering  the  whole  range  of  applied  art. 
Another  extensive  field  for  the  employment  of  wood- 
cuts was  the  popular  novel,  which  grew  out  of 

1  See  Appendix,  note  7. 

46 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

the  monogatari,  or  historical  romance.  Nearly  all  the 
great  artists  of  the  Ukiyo-ye  school  assisted  in  the 
illustration  of  these  books,  though  it  is  plain  that  they 
did  not  consider  the  task  worthy  of  their  best  efforts. 
Much  more  elaborate  work  appears  in  the  pages  of 
the  "illustrated  accounts  of  celebrated  places"  (meisho- 
zuye),  several  of  which  were  compiled  in  each  im- 
portant city  or  province,  for  the  purpose  of  depicting 
the  scenic  features  of  the  locality  and  recording  every- 
thing of  topical  interest.  In  fine,  before  the  middle 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  Japanese  xylography  had 
attained  a  stage  of  development  much  higher  than 
that  reached  at  the  same  epoch  in  Europe. 

Very  soon  after  the  woodcut  had  begun  to  be  used 
artistically  for  purposes  of  illustration,  the  practice  of 
colouring  it  by  hand  came  into  vogue.  At  first,  only 
two  colours  were  used,  orange  and  green,  but  yellow 
was  subsequently  added.  It  is  evident  that  the  painter 
desired  to  preserve  the  quality  of  the  line  engraving, 
and  that  he  subordinated  these  broad,  decorative 
effects  of  colour  to  the  character  of  the  black  and 
white  drawing.  Among  hand-coloured  prints  two 
kinds  are  sometimes  mistaken  for  chromo-xylographs. 
They  are  the  tan-ye,  or  orange  picture,  and  the  urushi- 
ye,  or  lacquered  picture.  The  former  derived  its  name 
from  the  fact  that  orange  was  the  dominant  colour, 
yellow  the  secondary ;  and  the  latter  was  so  called 
because  of  the  addition  of  black  lacquer,  which  helped 
to  emphasise  the  delicate  lines  of  the  engraving, 
though  occasionally  it  threw  the  other  colours  out  of 
scale.  In  some  cases  the  heaviness  of  the  black  lac- 
quer was  relieved  by  a  sprinkling  of  gold  leaf.  All 
this  work,  though  it  produced  many  beautiful  exam- 
ples, needs  only  cursory  mention. 

47 


JAPAN 

China  could  have  taught  chromo-xylographic  pro- 
cesses to  Japan  while  the  latter  was  still  content  with 
hand-coloured  engravings.  No  sufficient  explanation 
has  ever  been  offered  of  the  fact  that  the  Japanese 
were  so  slow  to  borrow  from  their  neighbours  in  this 
field.  Probably  the  truth  is  that  the  Chinese  chromo- 
xylograph  never  appealed  to  Japanese  taste,  and  never 
deserved  to  appeal  to  it.  At  all  events,  the  Chinese 
understood  colour-printing  early  in  the  seventeenth 
century,  whereas  the  Japanese  did  not  begin  to  practise 
it  until  nearly  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth.1  Their 
first  essays  were  simple,  the  colours  used  being  only 
two,  red  and  green.  The  artists  whose  names  were 
connected  with  this  innovation  are  Torii  Kiyonobu 
and  Torii  Kiyomasu,  followed  immediately  by  Oka- 
mura  Masanobu,  then  an  old  man,  and  by  Torii 
Kiyohiro,  Torii  Kiyomitsu,  and  Torii  Kiyoshige. 
These  prints  received  the  name  of  beni-ye  (vermilion 
pictures),  in  consequence  of  the  red  predominating  in 
the  scheme  of  colour.  Many  of  them  are  admirable 
examples  of  skilful  massing,  disposing,  and  contrasting 
of  colours.  The  artists  evidently  appreciated  at  its 
full  value  the  technical  superiority  of  colour  printing 
over  hand  painting,  namely,  steady,  even  tints  and 
absence  of  bewildering  gradations  of  tone.  The 
next  step  was  from  the  "  vermilion  picture "  to  the 
print  of  three,  or  even  four,  colours.  Some  ten  or 
twelve  years  had  elapsed  before  the  change  took  place, 
and  during  that  time  the  artists  had  fully  mastered 
the  basic  principles  of  colour  composition  for  such 
purposes,  and  had  learned  the  subtleties  of  balance 
and  harmony.  Torii  Kyomitsu  now  produced  beauti- 
ful prints,  in  which  secondary  colours  were  developed 

1  See  Appendix,  note  8. 

48 


FLOWER   STUDY. 

By  Korin. 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

by  superposition  of  primary,  so  that,  while  still  using 
only  three  blocks,  red,  blue,  yellow,  purple,  and  green 
were  obtained,  which,  with  the  black  and  white  of 
the  print,  gave  a  scheme  of  seven  colours.  At  this 
point  (about  1760)  Suzuki  Harunobu  appeared.  By 
many  connoisseurs  he  is  counted  the  greatest  master 
of  nishiki-ye?  and  the  title  rests  on  at  least  three 
solid  foundations,  namely,  the  delicacy  of  his  line 
drawing,  the  delightful  softness  and  music  of  his 
colours,  and  the  atmosphere  of  fresh  innocence  with 
which  he  envelops  his  female  figures.  But  Ha- 
runobu's  conceptions  of  life  and  its  graces  recall  the 
declining  day  of  Heian  civilisation,  when  "  cloud 
gallants "  painted  their  eyebrows,  powdered  their 
faces,  and  aped  femininity.  His  work  is  never  robust ; 
his  men  are  scarcely  distinguishable  from  women ;  he 
deforms  hands  and  feet  to  make  them  slender,  and  he 
knows  only  one  type  of  female  beauty  which  he  pro- 
duces and  reproduces  unceasingly.  Nevertheless  to 
him  undoubtedly  belongs  the  credit  of  having  inau- 
gurated a  new  and  almost  final  departure  in  Japanese 
chromo-xylography.  He  abandoned  the  drawing  of 
actors  to  which  his  contemporaries  had  hitherto  con- 
fined themselves,  —  a  limitation  which,  in  turn,  con- 
fined their  public  to  the  lower  middle  classes,  since 
the  theatre  and  everything  appertaining  to  it  belonged 
essentially  to  vulgar  life,  —  and  he  set  himself  to 
design  chromo-xylographic  pictures  of  ladies  and  gen- 
tlemen amid  the  luxuries  of  their  lives  and  the  re- 
finements of  their  pastimes.  Further,  he  included 
backgrounds  in  his  scheme  of  colours ;  multiplied  the 
number  of  blocks  so  as  to  produce  a  variety  of  tints, 
strong,  light,  and  soft;  changed  the  shape  of  the 

1  Sec  Appendix,  note  9. 

VOL.  vii.  —  0 


JAPAN 

paper,  and  added  embossing,  which  greatly  increased 
the  representative  capabilities  of  the  art.  From  his 
time  no  marked  advance  was  made.  None,  indeed, 
was  possible.  There  was  elaboration,  but  no  important 
innovation.  In  the  same  category  with  Harunobu 
stand  a  large  school  of  brilliant  artists,  great  in  a  pic- 
torial as  well  as  a  decorative  sense  :  Koriusai,  Katsukawa 
Shunsho,  Ippitsusai,  Buncho,  Katsukawa  Shunyei, 
Utagawa  Toyonobu,  Utagawa  Toyoharu,  Kitao  Shi- 
gemasa,  Kubo  Shunman,  Torii  Kiyonaga,  Shuncho, 
Chobunsai,  Yeishi,  Kikugawa  Utamaro,  Utagawa  To- 
yokuni,  Hokusai,  Hokkei,  and  Hiroshige.  They 
cover  a  space  from  1750  to  1850,  just  a  century.  As 
to  which  of  them  deserves  to  be  placed  on  the  throne 
of  chromo-xylographic  art,  there  are  differences  of 
opinion,  but  the  honour  certainly  belongs  to  one  of 
these  four,  Utamaro,  Kiyonaga,  Harunobu,  and  Koriu- 
sai. Some  hold  that  everything  culminated  in  Kiyonaga 
(1780—1795),  that  everything  subsequent  to  him  was 
a  degeneration,  and  that  everything  good  in  contem- 
porary or  later  art  was  due  to  his  influence.  But  the 
longer  the  chromo-xylographs  of  Japan  are  studied 
and  the  wider  the  student's  range  of  acquaintance 
with  them,  the  more  does  Kikugawa  Utamaro  force 
himself  into  the  first  place,  alike  for  vigour,  for  ver- 
satility, for  tenderness,  for  truth  of  line,  and  for  beauty 
of  colour  harmonies. 

After  Hiroshige,  whose  landscapes  are  among  the 
finest  pictures  of  the  chromo-xylographic  gallery, 
nothing  good  was  produced.  Indeed  the  era  of  deca- 
dence had  set  in  long  before  Hiroshige  designed  his 
last  prints  (1855),  though  the  end  was  postponed  by 
several  admirable  artists.  At  one  time  (1842),  and 
that  not  by  any  means  the  golden  age  of  the  art,  the 

5° 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

Yedo  government,  in  a  mood  of  economy,  deemed  it 
necessary  to  issue  a  sumptuary  law  prohibiting  the 
sale  of  various  kinds  of  chromo-xylographs,  —  single- 
sheet  pictures  of  actors,  danseuses,  and  "  dames  of  the 
green  chamber"  :  pictures  in  series  of  three  sheets  or 
upwards,  and  pictures  in  the  printing  of  which  more 
than  seven  blocks  were  used.  The  prohibition  held 
for  twelve  years  only,  but  it  certainly  contributed  to 
hasten  the  decadence  which  had  already  begun.  As 
to  that  decadence,  not  much  need  be  said.  Its 
features  force  themselves  upon  the  attention  of  the 
most  superficial  student.  From  the  exquisite  pic- 
tures of  Utamaro,  Kiyonaga,  Harunobu,  and  their 
rivals,  to  the  meritless,  meretricious  work  of  later 
artists  there  is  an  immense  interval  in  quality  though 
a  brief  interval  of  years.  It  would  be  a  misconcep- 
tion to  assume,  however,  that  the  ability  to  produce 
beautiful  chromo-xylographs  has  been  lost.  It  is 
there  still,  as  was  recently  proved  by  a  notable  revival 
with  which  the  names  of  Ogata  Gekko,  Watanabe 
Seitei,  Kiyosai,  and  Kansai  were  connected.  But  the 
art  has  been  vulgarised.  The  coloured  print  has  be- 
come chiefly  a  child's  toy.  Artists  can  no  longer 
afford  to  superintend  the  technical  processes  of  its 
production,  and  cheap  flaring,  violent  pigments  im- 
ported from  abroad  have  taken  the  place  of  the  deli- 
cate, rich,  and  costly  colours  of  old  Japan. 

One  of  the  facts  which  the  student  of  the  Far  East 
soon  learns  to  expect  is  that  Occidental  precedents 
must  be  reversed  to  suit  Japanese  methods.  In  Eu- 
rope or  America  the  engraver  on  wood  must  be  able 
to  express  light  and  shade  by  line  or  dot,  and  to 
distinguish  between  textures  by  means  of  his  "  line." 
It  is  frequently  necessary  for  him  to  reproduce  the  very 

S1 


JAPAN 

brush-marks  of  the  artist  in  order  to  retain  the  char- 
acter of  the  original.  Hence  the  credit  of  the  pic- 
ture does  not  belong  solely  to  the  artist,  but  is 
shared  by  the  engraver.  In  Japan  the  engraver  has 
no  honour;  he  is  a  mere  artisan.  This  interesting 
point  will  be  understood  from  the  following  descrip- 
tion of  the  Japanese  chromo-xylographic  process  (fur- 
nished by  Mr.  S.  Tuke,  one  of  the  most  zealous 
students  of  the  subject) :  — 

In  the  first  place,  the  artist  will  compose  his  original  de- 
sign somewhat  in  this  fashion.  He  commences  with  a  small 
rough  sketch,  perhaps  on  an  odd  scrap  of  paper.  Next  he 
proceeds  to  make  an  outline  drawing  with  a  brush  dipped  in 
very  thin  and  pale  Indian  ink  on  a  sheet  of  paper  of  the 
requisite  size.  Having  corrected  this  and  satisfied  himself 
with  his  performance,  he  will  carefully  and  accurately  draw 
in  the  whole  outline  in  black  ink.  If  this  outline  is  not  en- 
tirely satisfactory,  he  will  make  a  corrected  tracing  upon  thin 
paper.  In  this  case  he  may  partially  paint  the  original  pic- 
ture with  the  colour  printing. 

At  this  stage  the  wood-engraver's  services  are  called  in. 
Having  procured  a  block  of  cherry  wood  of  the  desired 
dimensions  and  sawn  with  the  grain  (not  across  the  grain, 
as  is  our  habit  in  the  West),  the  original  drawing,  or  the 
tracing  as  the  case  may  be,  will  be  pasted  face  down  upon 
the  block.  If  the  drawing  cannot  be  distinctly  seen  through 
the  back  of  the  paper,  its  upper  layers  will  be  very  carefully 
rubbed  off  with  a  wet  hand  or  cloth,  until  the  outline  can 
be  clearly  seen  through  the  thinnest  possible  film  of  paper. 
Having  received  the  requisite  instructions  from  the  artist, 
the  engraver  will  commence  to  carve  out  the  space  be- 
tween the  black  portions  of  the  design,  leaving  the  black 
outline  alone  in  relief.  This  operation  concluded,  and  the 
fragments  of  paper  having  been  removed  with  a  brush,  the 
outline  having  been  made,  the  first  stage  will  be  completed. 
In  the  case  of  an  ordinary  print  in  black  and  white  the 
engraver's  labours  are  now  ended,  but  in  the  case  of  a 


SUNRISE  ON   THE   SEASHORE. 

By  Nomura  Bunkyo. 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

colour  print  he  still  has  duties  to  perform,  as  will  be  pres- 
ently seen. 

The  printer's  services  are  now  required,  and  a  certain 
number  of  copies  will  be  printed,  on  thin  paper,  from  the 
outline  block  —  one  copy  at  least  for  each  colour  which  is  to 
appear  in  the  finished  picture.  The  artist's  help  will  now 
again  be  needed,  and  if  he  has  not  already  coloured  portions 
of  the  original  drawing,  he  will  colour,  entirely  or  in  part, 
one  of  these  printed  copies  as  a  model  for  the  finished  pic- 
ture. Then  he  will  paint,  possibly  by  tracing  on  another  of 
these  outline  copies,  all  portions  of  the  picture  that  are  of  the 
same  colour  ;  on  another  copy,  in  the  same  way,  the  parts  of 
the  picture  that  are  of  another  colour,  and  so  on,  until  he  has 
thus  painted  as  many  single-colour  copies  as  there  are  colours 
in  the  finished  picture.  Each  of  these  coloured  copies  is 
now  pasted  on  a  separate  block  of  cherry  wood.  The  en- 
graver then  resumes  work.  He  carves  away  the  whole  sur- 
face of  each  block,  including  the  outline,  leaving  only  in 
relief  the  coloured  part  of  the  design.  In  each  case  he  also 
carves  at  the  corner  and  edge  of  the  block  a  rectangular  nick 
and  a  guiding  line,  which  correspond  exactly  to  a  similar 
nick  and  guiding  line  in  the  outline  block.  A  separate 
block  having  thus  been  produced  for  each  colour,  the  remains 
of  the  paper  copies  will  be  removed,  and  unless  any  altera- 
tions are  required,  the  engraver's  work  is  concluded.  Al- 
though it  is  difficult  to  overrate  the  amount  of  skill 
often  exhibited  by  the  Japanese  wood-engraver,  it  is  easy  to 
see  from  this  description  how  thoroughly  subordinate  he  is 
to  the  artist. 

Printing  is  the  next  process.  The  various  blocks  now 
pass  into  the  hands  of  an  operator  of  little  less  importance 
than  the  engraver  in  point  of  skill,  and  requiring  much 
greater  artistic  talent.  In  a  work  of  any  importance  the 
artist,  having  selected  his  paper  and  directed  the  mixing  of 
the  various  colours,  will  probably  superintend  the  printing 
of  the  first  proofs.  But  there  is  no  printing-press.  The 
outline  block  is  placed  face  upwards  upon  a  stool  or  upon 
the  floor,  and  the  portions  in  relief  are  carefully  painted 
with  an  ink  brush.  A  sheet  of  paper  is  then  placed  upon 

53 


JAPAN 

the  block,  one  of  its  corners  in  the  rectangular  nick,  its  edge 
against  the  guiding  line,  and  retained  in  position  by  one  of 
the  printer's  hands.  He  will  next  proceed  to  pass  a  flat 
padded  discover  the  back  of  the  paper  with  his  other  hand, 
exercising  the  requisite  amount  of  pressure  with  his  arm. 
The  whole  of  this  process  will  be  repeated  until  he  has 
printed  off  the  number  of  outline  proofs  required  for  the 
first  issue.  He  then  replaces  the  outline  block  with  one  of 
the  colour  blocks,  and  applies  the  colour  to  the  portions  of 
the  surface  that  are  in  relief.  Should  any  shading  be 
required,  he  will  carefully  wipe  the  colour  in  gradation  par- 
tially off  the  requisite  portions  with  either  his  hand  or  a 
damp  rag.  This  shading,  of  course,  requires  very  nice  ma- 
nipulation, but  it  is  a  process  not  unknown  to  English  etchers. 
One  of  the  outline  proofs  is  now  placed  on  the  colour  block, 
its  corner  in  the  nick,  and  its  edge  against  the  guiding  line, 
so  that  the  coloured  portions  take  their  right  position  in  the 
picture.  The  padded  disc  is  now  passed  over  the  proof, 
after  which  it  is  removed  and  fresh  colour  having  been 

O 

applied,  another  proof  takes  the  place  of  the  former.  This 
process  will  be  continued  until  the  proofs  of  the  first  issue  have 
all  been  printed  in  one  colour.  Then  the  process  is  simi- 
larly repeated  with  each  colour  block  in  turn,  and  the  first 
issue  of  our  nish'iki-ye  is  now  finished  and  ready  for  the 
market.  It  will  probably  be  a  small  issue,  to  the  end  that 
the  artist,  should  he  not  be  contented  with  the  result,  may 
be  able  to  make  alterations  before  the  outline  block  has  lost 
its  freshness.  Such  alterations  may  be  effected  in  several 
ways,  either  by  an  entire  redistribution  of  colour  on  the  old 
colour  blocks,  by  the  substitution  of  new  colour  blocks  for 
old,  or  by  an  increase  in  their  number. 

It  is  not  unusual  to  employ  a  block  carved  with  a  design 
of  some  sort  which  is  not  coloured,  but  serves  to  stamp  a 
pattern  in  relief.  In  printing  from  such  blocks  extra 
pressure  is  resorted  to.  Some  of  the  effects  thus  obtained 
are  very  attractive. 

To  obtain  good  prints  it  is  necessary,  in  the  first  place, 
that  the  nick  and  guiding  lines  should  be  exactly  in  their 
right  place  on  each  block,  and,  in  the  second,  that  the 

54 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

printer  should  exercise  very  great  care  in  placing  each  sheet 
accurately  in  position  on  each  successive  block.  Otherwise 
the  colours  will  overlap  the  outlines  of  one  another. 

Of  course,  in  the  greater  number  of  cases  the  artist  will 
leave  many  of  the  duties  here  assigned  to  him  to  his  subor- 
dinates. In  recent  times,  this  must  have  to  a  great  extent 
been  the  case,  and  both  engraving  and  printing,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  arrangement  of  the  colour  blocks,  must  have 
been  left  to  the  supervision  of  a  pupil,  or  even  in  the  hands 
of  the  engraver,  or,  more  likely  still,  in  those  of  the  publish- 
ing printer. 

What  are  the  special  charms  which  have  won  for 
the  paintings,  woodcuts,  and  chromo-xylographs  of 
the  ukiyo-ye  masters  such  applause  in  Europe  and 
America  ?  How  is  it  that  a  branch  of  pictorial  art 
which  Japanese  connoisseurs  have  always  regarded 
with  a  certain  measure  of  contempt,  evokes  the 
unstinted  admiration  of  Occidental  critics  ?  Some 
answer  the  question  by  reference  to  the  motives  of  the 
pictures.  Here,  they  say,  we  have  accurate  repre- 
sentations of  the  people's  occupations  and  pastimes, 
of  domestic  life  with  all  its  graces  and  conventions, 
of  the  fete  and  the  festival,  of  love,  of  battle,  of  the 
chase,  of  elf-land,  of  the  theatre,  of  the  danseuse,  of 
the  demi-monde,  of  highway  scenes,  and  of  street  pan- 
oramas. Some,  again,  reply  by  pointing  to  the 
immense  mine  of  decorative  wealth  that  Western 
designers  may  find  in  the  detail  of  the  nisbiki-ye. 
Such  comments  are  doubtless  true,  but  they  appear 
very  unsatisfying.  It  is  not  to  obtain  information 
about  Japanese  fashions  and  habits,  nor  yet  to  find  a 
novel  pattern  for  a  book  cover  or  a  wall-paper,  that 
the  collectors  of  New  York,  of  Boston,  of  Paris,  and 
of  London  eagerly  seek  and  jealously  preserve  these 
specimens  of  Japanese  art.  Other  reasons  present 

55 


JAPAN 

themselves.      Chiefly  to  harmony  of  colour  does  the 
ukiyo-ye  owe  its  charm.      There  is  no  ground  for  sup- 
posing, indeed  it  may  be  confidently  denied,   that  the 
Japanese  ever  approached  the  problem  of  colour  from 
a  scientific  point  of  view ;  that  they  knew  anything 
about    the    law  of  complements  and   contrasts ;   that 
they  possessed  a  definite  idea  about  the  relief  of  warm 
colours  by  cool,  or  the  blending  of  similar  notes  and 
tones  by  gradation.      But  their  practice    shows    that 
they   fully  appreciated  the  prime  qualities  of  colour 
symphony,  —  richness,    accordance,   and    mellowness 
There  is  never  a  shrill  or  strident  note  in  these  musi- 
cal pictures.     The  primitive  colours   are   there  suffi- 
ciently to  produce  strength   and  volume,  but  always 
delicacy  of  shade  and  softness  of  hue  are  the  pervading 
characteristics,  and  the  broken  tones  blend  gently  with- 
out jar  or  conflict.      If  the  chromo-xylograph  be  con- 
sidered in  the  sequel  of  the  magnificent  monochromes 
of  Shiubun,  Sesshiu,  Jasoku,  the    Kanos,  and    other 
giants    of    the    classical  schools,  where  the  painter's 
appreciation  of  "  value  "  amounts  almost  to  an   un- 
erring  instinct,  the  student  is  led    to  conclude   that 
Japanese  artists  did  not  attempt  to  elaborate  scientific 
theories,  but  went  direct  to  nature  for  their  teaching, 
thus    discovering  and  applying  the  fundamental  law 
that  every  shade  of  colour  has  its  proper  place  in  a 
scene,  and  must  hold  a  fixed  relation  to  its  associates 
in  the  general  scale.     The  ukiyo-ye  seems,  in  short, 
to  have  arrived  in  the  regular  order  of  evolution,  for 
the  artist  passed  from  a  knowledge  of  low  keys'  and 
simple  colour  compositions,  developed  in  the  Chinese 
schools,  to  a  profound  sense  of  the  wider  scope  and 
fuller  harmony  of  high  diversified  colours,  and   thus 
succeeded  in  combining  the  flame  and   glow  of  sun- 

56 


:-IJIT?  v.\ 

0  y9 


CARP    IN    STREAM. 
By  Okio. 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

shine  brilliancy  with  the  tenderness  and   refinement 
of  twilight  tints. 

But  while  admitting  his  greatness  as  a  colourist, 
many  critics  have  condemned  his  drawing.  They 
complain  that  the  linear  character  of  the  objects  he 
depicts  is  not  accurate,  that  anatomical  laws  are  often 
violated  in  his  figures,  that  he  appears  to  be  without 
any  exact  knowledge  of  form.  It  would  scarcely  be 
correct  to  endorse  that  criticism  unreservedly.  A 
more  discerning  verdict  is  that  the  Japanese  artist,  to 
whichever  of  the  schools  he  belonged,  sacrificed  truth 
of  detail  to  truth  of  mass.  His  first  aim  was  to  obtain 
the  appearance  of  life  ;  accuracy  of  proportion  seemed 
a  secondary  consideration.  Each  painter  had  his  type 
which  he  idealised  more  or  less,  his  idealism  not  being 
confined  to  the  face  but  extending  to  the  physique 
and  even  to  the  anatomy  of  his  figures.  If  the  details 
of  the  drawing  violate  accepted  canons,  complaint  is 
silenced  by  the  sense  of  life  that  pervades  the  whole ; 
by  the  perfect  naturalness  of  every  attitude,  every 
movement,  every  gesture ;  by  the  eloquence  with 
which  the  character  of  the  objects  speaks  from  the 
picture.  In  short,  accuracy  is  sacrificed  to  the  indi- 
viduality that  everything  in  nature  possesses,  —  the 
individuality  which,  in  actual  experience,  impresses 
itself  upon  the  attention  of  the  observer  and  excludes 
all  thought  of  linear  exactness  or  anatomical  truth. 
Kiyosai,  the  greatest  modern  representative  of  the 
Popular  school,  used  to  say  exactly  what  Veron  has 
said,  namely,  that  nothing  in  nature  pauses  to  be  por- 
trayed ;  that  there  is  motion  everywhere, —  if  not 
actual  motion  in  the  object  itself,  then  motion  of  the 
light  falling  on  it  or  of  the  atmosphere  surrounding 
it ;  that  without  elasticity  of  line  the  sense  of  life 

57 


JAPAN 

cannot  be  obtained,  and  that  elasticity  of  line  is 
incompatible  with  what  the  classicists  call  strict 
accuracy.  Kiyosai,  as  his  sketch  books  showed, 
knew  all  about  the  structure  of  the  human  hand  and 
foot,  but  the  hands  and  feet  that  he  drew  in  his 
pictures  would  have  been  wholly  condemned  by  a 
Bouguereau  or  an  Ingres. 

There  has  already  been  occasion  to  note,  as  a  gen- 
eral criticism,  that  in  Japanese  pictures  —  not  except- 
ing those  that  delight  by  their  fleeting  impression  of 
life  and  movement,  by  the  appearance  of  reality  and 
character  they  convey  —  a  discord  is  often  created  by 
the  intrusion  of  accentuated  outlines  among  natural 
surroundings.  This  defect  is  least  observable  in  the 
paintings  and  chromo-xylographs  of  the  Popular 
school,  because  their  motives  are  usually  human 
figures  and  drapery,  subjects  which  not  only  permit 
but  require  some  recognition  of  outline ;  and  if,  occa- 
sionally, the  student  is  disposed  to  quarrel  even  with 
Kiyonaga,  Harunobu,  Utamaro,  Toyokuni,  or  Yeishi 
for  their  emphasis  of  outlines,  he  forgives  them 
readily  for  the  sake  of  the  charm  of  manner,  the 
exquisite  grace  of  gesture,  and  the  superb  rhythm  of 
movement  that  their  figure  subjects  display. 

Passing,  further,  to  the  question  of  composition, 
it  may  be  said  that  in  this  feature  the  ukiyo-ye 
paintings  stand  on  a  very  high  level.  More  unstinted 
praise  has  indeed  been  bestowed  on  them,  but  when 
"  composition  "  is  here  spoken  of,  reference  is  made 
to  the  perfect  arrangement  to  which  all  the  factors  of 
pictorial  art  must  contribute  their  share,  — not  merely 
flow  and  force  of  line,  harmony  of  colour  and  due 
relation  of  tones,  but  also  linear  perspective  and 
chiaroscuro.  Some  of  the  artists  of  the  Popular 

58 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

school  understood  linear  perspective  sufficiently  not 
to  offend  by  obvious  disregard  of  its  rules,  but  they 
neglected  chiaroscuro,  and  that  defect  disqualified 
their  composition  to  be  called  a  faultless  achievement, 
which  epithet  would  otherwise  be  often  applicable  to 
their  admirable  grouping  of  pictorial  elements. 

This  brief  analysis  may  be  closed  by  referring  to 
one  fault  conspicuous  in  all  these  artists'  work  :  they 
did  not  understand  the  light-suggestions  without 
which  textures  and  surfaces  cannot  be  rendered. 
They  relied  upon  line  and  colour  to  produce  effects 
which  are  due  in  nature  to  the  uneven  distribution, 
absorption,  or  reflection  of  light.  Hence,  while  they 
show  with  admirable  accuracy  the  folds  of  drapery 
and  the  patterns  winding  and  flowing  through  all  its 
plies,  they  fail  to  tell  whether  the  surface  repre- 
sented is  that  of  velvet  or  of  silk  or  of  cotton.  It 
has  been  well  said  that  in  judging  pictures  one 
must  consider  what  the  painter  succeeds  in  doing, 
and  not  be  forever  critical  about  what  he  fails  to  do. 
The  ukiyo-ye  artists  achieved  so  much  that  much 
may  be  forgiven  to  them,  but  since  genre  pictures 
are  certainly  the  proper  field  for  the  display  of 
texture  painting,  the  absence  of  this  quality  in  the 
ukiyo-ye  work  cannot  be  left  unnoticed. 

The  naturalistic  tendency  of  which  the  pictures 
of  the  Popular  school  are  the  most  characteristic 
outcome,  found  very  refined  and  beautiful  expression 
in  the  works  of  Maruyama  Okio  (born  1733,  died 
1795),  a  Kyoto  artist,  who  must  be  regarded  as  one 
of  the  greatest  painters  Japan  ever  produced.  Okio 
is  generally  spoken  of  as  the  founder  of  the  Shi-jo 
school  (Shi-jo  is  the  name  of  a  part  of  Kyoto),  and 
his  contemporary  Kishi  Doshi  (known  artistically  as 

59 


JAPAN 

"Ganku  ")  is  placed  at  the  head  of  a  separate  school 
the    Ganku    Riu.      But  though   the  individuality    of 
each  master  impressed  itself  on   his  style    sufficiently 
perhaps,  to  justify  this  independent  classification,  both 
are  nothing    more    than  great   representatives  of  the 
naturalistic  sentiment  of  the  era,  and  both   are  differ- 
entiated   from  their    Ukiyo-ye   contemporaries  chiefly 
by  the  fact  that  they  never   devoted    their  talents  to 
the    purposes  of  the   woodcut    or    the   chromo-xylo- 
graph.      In  force,  grace,  tenderness,  and  accuracy   of 
3kio   has   no  superior    among   Japanese   artists. 
He  went  direct  to  nature  for  instruction,  but  into  all 
his  exquisite  pictures  of  birds,    flowers,   grasses,  fish 
insects,  quadrupeds,  and  figures,  he   introduced  a  sub- 
jective element  as  eloquent  as  it   is   indescribable       It 
has  been  said  that  his  drawing    of  the  human  figure 
showed  all  the  anatomical    errors    of  his   predecessors, 
but  it  must  also  be  said  that  the  question   of  anatomy 
never  presents  itself  for  a  moment  in  connection  with 
his  pictures,  and   that   one   has  no     more  inclination 
to    criticise   his   manner    of    articulating    bones    and 
moulding  muscles  than  one  has  to  remember  the  sur- 
gical   solecisms    of    Michael   Angelo    or    Delacroix 
With  the  exceptions  of  Mori  Sosen  and  Kano  Tanyu,' 
no  artist  has  ever  been  so  assiduously  copied  in   Japan 
as  Okio.      Forgeries  of  his  works   exist   in   hundreds, 
but  the  originals  remain  always  unapproachable. 

An  eminent  critic  calls  Ganku  "  stupendous/'  and 
describes  him  as  "the  only  artist  of  recent  times 
worthy  to  be  ranked  on  a  level  with  the  great  masters 
of  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries."  Probably  not 
many  will  be  found  to  confirm  that  verdict  from  their 
own  observation.  Ganku  died  just  sixty-three  years 
ago  (1838).  Numbers  of  his  works  remain  The 

60 


LANDSCAPE    IN    SEMI-JAPANESE   STYLE. 

By  Hashimoto  Gaho.     Present  time.    (See  page  68.) 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

best  of  them  seem  to  be  those  that  show  most  clearly 
the  impress  of  the  naturalistic  tendency  to  which  Okio 
so  powerfully  contributed ;  but  if  his  countrymen  be 
asked  to  indicate  his  title  to  fame,  they  invariably 
refer  to  his  delineations  of  the  tiger.  Now  it  may 
safely  be  asserted  that  Ganku  never  saw  a  real,  live 
tiger ;  never  had  an  opportunity  for  studying  its  anat- 
omy and  proportions.  He  formed  his  own  idea  of 
"  a  snarling,  crouching,  treacherous  mass  of  energy," 
and  he  painted  that  idea  with  force  and  effect,  but 
yet  with  so  little  resemblance  to  nature's  original 
that  the  distortion  of  the  modelling  impairs  all  appre- 
ciation of  the  essence  of  the  thing.  He  had,  how- 
ever, seen  a  tiger's  skin,  and  a  tiger's  skin  is  just  the 
kind  of  texture  that  lends  itself  readily  to  linear  repre- 
sentation, and  consequently  comes  within  full  range 
of  the  Japanese  artist's  brush.  Ganku's  tiger  skins 
are  marvels  of  brush  work.  Mori  Sosen  (born  1747, 
died  1821),  one  of  the  greatest  of  the  Shi-jo  masters, 
is  as  celebrated  for  his  delineations  of  the  monkey  as 
Ganku  is  for  his  paintings  of  the  tiger.  But  Sosen 
studied  the  monkey  in  nature,  and  acquired  an  ex- 
traordinarily intimate  knowledge  of  its  habits  and 
attitudes.  He  may  be  called  the  Landseer  of  Japan  ; 
for  though  his  fame  rests  chiefly  on  his  pictures 
of  the  monkey,  he  has  left  paintings  of  deer,  of 
badgers,  of  rats,  of  fishes,  and  of  hares  that  would 
have  won  for  him  a  great  reputation  even  without 
his  remarkable  studies  of  simian  life. 

The  reader  will  understand  that  no  attempt  is 
here  made  to  separate  the  Shijo  and  the  Ganku 
schools ;  their  differentiation  is  scarcely  a  practical 
problem.  He  will  understand,  also,  that  if  special 
reference  is  not  made  in  this  section  to  such  painters 

61 


JAPAN 

as  Gekkei,  Keibun,  Hoyen,  Kikuchi  Yosai,  K5rin 
and  Bunrin,  it  is  for  the  same  reason  that  has  com- 
pelled the  omission  from  other  sections  of  any  de- 
tailed account  of  the  works  and  styles  of  scores  of 
other  famous  masters,  from  the  early  Tosa  and  Kano 
celebrities  to  Tani  Buncho  and  Hokusai. 

What  is  the  present  condition  of  pictorial  art  in 
Japan,  and  what  are  its  prospects  ?  The  former 
question  has  been  answered  more  than  once  in  a 
pessimistic  strain.  Japan  is  said  to  have  outlived  the 
manners  and  customs  from  which  her  old  art  derived 
vitality,  and  to  have  entered  upon  a  phase  of  existence 
so  permeated  with  Occidental  influences  that  her 
artists,  like  her  tailors  and  her  barbers,  cannot  resist 
the  change.  Surely  that  is  a  superficial  view.  It 
involves  the  assumption  that  her  art  has  no  elements 
permanently  worthy  of  preservation,  no  intrinsic 
merits  fit  to  survive  independently  of  environment. 
The  fact  is  that  if  the  present  era  is  without  giants 
of  the  brush,  like  Okio  or  Sosen,  it  is  not  with- 
out masters  of  great  talent  and  high  technical  skill. 
Twenty  years  ago,  Bunrin  died  in  Kyoto :  an  artist  of 
whom  it  has  been  well  said  that  he  "  fixed  upon 
paper  and  silk  with  exquisite  refinement  and  sugges- 
tiveness  the  most  striking  of  the  atmospheric  effects 
that  cast  a  fairyland  glamour  over  the  scenery  of 
Japan."  At  a  yet  more  recent  date  died  Shofu 
Kiyosai,  a  genre  painter  of  immense  versatility,  force, 
and  humour,  who  has  left  a  gallery  of  pictures  show- 
ing a  wide  range  of  conception  and  study.  Still 
more  recently  these  strong  representatives  of  the 
Shi-jo  and  the  Popular  schools,  respectively,  were 
followed  to  the  grave  by  Ganki,  generally  known  as 
Chikudo  Ganki,  who  ranks  not  much  below  Ganku, 

62 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

the  founder  of  his  school.  These  three  artists  are 
sufficient  in  themselves  to  redeem  the  Meiji  era  from 
any  charge  of  hopeless  decadence.  Nor  is  the 
present  time  without  painters  that  will  certainly  be 
remembered  by  posterity.  Kawabata  Gyokusho, 
Hashimoto  Gaho,  Ogata  Gekko,  Imao  Keinen,  Taki 
Katei,  Kumagaye  Naohiko,  Nomura  Bunkyo,  Wata- 
nabe  Seitei,  and  Araki  Kwampo,  not  to  speak  of 
others  whose  talent  seems  full  of  promise,  make  a 
group  of  artists  inheriting  many  of  the  highest  qual- 
ities of  the  various  schools  they  represent. 

But  while  the  old  art  flourishes,  quietly  and 
steadily  enriching  the  nation  with  its  products,  there 
flourishes  also  a  most  pernicious  outgrowth  of  foreign 
influence,  —  a  great  crop  of  wretched  pictures  ;  weak, 
hurried  examples  of  brush  tricks  which  constitute  the 
sole  equipment  of  the  purely  conventional  copyist. 
It  is  not  implied  that  such  efforts  of  mere  mechanical 
dexterity  have  been  suggested  by  contact  with  the 
art  of  the  West.  The  wave  of  Western  ideas,  pene- 
trating, as  it  has  done,  to  the  very  heart  of  the  nation, 
could  not  fail  to  be  felt  in  the  region  of  the  national 
art.  It  has  been  felt,  as  will  be  presently  explained. 
But  the  comment  to  be  made  here  —  a  comment  that 
extends  to  the  whole  range  of  modern  Japanese  art 
whether  pictorial  or  applied  —  is  that  the  mercantile 
demand  resulting  from  foreign  intercourse  has  created 
an  essentially  mercantile  supply.  Multitudes  of  people 
whose  purses  can  never  bring  objects  of  Western  art 
within  their  reach,  and  who  lack  either  innate  taste 
or  educated  liking  for  such  things,  are  tempted  by 
cheapness  and  novelty  to  purchase  Japanese  pictures, 
and  naturally  the  shrewd  trader  and  the  needy 
draughtsman  take  care  that  this  undiscriminating 

63 


JAPAN 

public  shall  be  satisfied.  Dozens  of  studios  are 
devoted  to  the  manufacture  of  painted  parodies  which 
no  Japanese  connoisseur  would  regard  as  pictures, 
and  not  a  bric-a-brac  store  is  without  rolls  and  albums 
of  weak  daubs  poured  out  from  these  workshops.  On 
the  evidence  of  such  paintings  it  is  that  the  great 
majority  of  foreign  critics  base  their  estimate  of 
modern  Japan's  pictorial  ability,  ignorant  that  they 
have  before  them  merely  a  staple  of  foreign  trade,  not 
an  effort  of  Japanese  art. 

Apart  from  this  commercial  taint,  which,  after  all, 
is  a  mere  accident,  the  influx  of  Western  ideas  shows 
itself  in  two  directions  :  it  has  called  into  existence  a 
school  based  solely  and  faithfully  on  the  art  of  the 
Occident,  and  it  has  given  new  vitality  to  a  school 
which,  while  using  the  old  materials  and  following 
the  old  lines,  recognises  the  value  of  Western  princi- 
ples as  to  perspective  and  chiaroscuro,  and  endeavours 
to  engraft  them  upon  the  traditional  art  of  the 
nation. 

Concerning  the  purely  Western  school,  a  few 
words  will  suffice.  Its  students  have  virtually  neither 
patrons,  nor  opportunities,  nor  instructors.  There  is 
no  place  in  a  Japanese  house  for  their  paintings. 
There  are  no  studios  which  they  can  attend,  no  gal- 
leries which  they  can  visit.  Their  means,  with  very 
rare  exceptions,  are  altogether  too  scanty  to  permit 
travel  in  Europe  or  America,  and  at  home  they  are 
without  teachers  to  guide  their  hand  or  examples  to 
educate  their  eye.  Finally,  public  sentiment  is 
opposed  to  their  radicalism.  Yet  for  thirty  years 
they  have  struggled  with  such  extraordinary  courage 
and  perseverance  against  these  terribly  adverse  cir- 
cumstances that  it  seems  impossible  to  doubt  their 

64 


.JOOHJH  /.I-1IOS 

3   Yfi 


MODERN    SEMI-JAPANESE    SCHOOL. 

By  Omorl  Keido.    (See  page  68.) 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

ultimate  success,  mediocre  as  have  been  the  results 
hitherto  obtained. 

The  modern  hybrid  school  has  been  spoken  of 
above  as  a  revival  rather  than  a  new  creation.  Such 
a  form  of  speech  will  perhaps  be  challenged,  for  more 
than  one  writer  of  high  authority  has  denied  that 
any  marked  traces  of  Western  art  are  visible  in  Japan- 
ese pictures  painted  before  the  opening  of  the  country 
forty  years  ago.  It  is  admitted  that  in  the  field  of 
copperplate  engraving  some  aid  was  received  from 
the  Dutch  at  the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century,  and 
that  a  few  of  the  later  artists  of  the  Popular  school 
obeyed  the  laws  of  linear  perspective ;  but  even  such 
an  astute  critic  and  accurate  historian  as  the  late  Dr. 
Anderson  speaks  with  surprise  of  the  "  want  of  recep- 
tiveness  "  of  Japanese  artists,  and  surmises  that  it  was 
chiefly  due  to  the  low  grade  of  the  European  pictorial 
works  coming  under  their  observation  during  the  era 
of  restricted  foreign  intercourse.  There  is  another 
explanation,  —  an  explanation  vividly  illustrated  in  the 
story  of  an  artist  who  had  hitherto  received  singularly 
inadequate  notice  from  foreign  essayists.  On  the 
23rd  of  November  in  the  year  1840  died  by  his 
own  hand,  in  Yedo,  Watanabe  Kwazan.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  patrician  (shizoku)  order.  During  the 
last  two  decades  of  his  life  Japan  had  begun  to  turn 
slowly  but  surely  towards  Occidental  civilisation. 
It  is  customary  to  speak  of  the  restoration  in  1867 
as  the  period  when  this  change  of  sentiment  first 
made  itself  distinctly  manifest.  But  the  calculation 
is  nearly  a  century  late.  Officialdom,  indeed,  still 
adhered  firmly  to  the  traditional  policy  of  seclusion 
handed  down  from  the  days  when  the  intemper- 
ance of  Christian  propagandists  and  the  jealousies  of 

VOL.  vii.  —  5  65 


JAPAN 

warring  creeds  lent  to  foreign  intercourse  a  startling 
and    deterrent  aspect.      But  in  spite    of    officialdom, 
with    its    iron  rule    and   pitiless    penalties,    intrepid 
reformers  among   the  people  stealthily  studied    Occi- 
dental systems  and  with    wonderful    patience    strug- 
gled   to   emerge   from    the    intellectual    isolation   to 
which  their  country  had  been  condemned    for    more 
than     two    centuries.      Watanabe    was    among    these 
pioneers.      He  fell  under  suspicion,  and  his  pictures 
helped  to  bear  witness  against  him,  —  eloquent  witness, 
for  the  talent  they    displayed  could    scarcely  fail   to 
popularise  the  heresy  they  represented.      He  received 
the  fatal  order  which  every    samurai  was   bound    to 
obey  unflinchingly,  —  the   order   to   commit   suicide. 
But  his  work  survived.      It    would    have  been  more 
consistent  with  the  heroic  methods  of  those  days  had 
every  picture  painted  by  him  been   burned,  or  buried 
with  his  decapitated  corpse.      That  extremity  was  not 
resorted  to,  however,  and  on   the  fiftieth  anniversary 
of  his  death  "  new  Japan  "  did  homage  to  his  mem- 
ory  by    bringing    together  a  large  collection  of  his 
works  at  the  Reigan  temple  in  Tokyo,  and  exhibiting 
them  for  two  days  while  the  priests  chaunted  litanies 
and    recited    masses   for    the   repose   of  the   ill-fated 
painter's  soul.     At  the   edge  of  the   dais   supporting 
the  high  altar  lay  an  object   of  sad  interest.      It   was 
the    sword    with    which    Watanabe   had   committed 
seppuku,  and  it  rested  on  the  same  tray  of  white  pine 
from  which   the  artist  had  taken  it  at  the  supreme 
moment.      Beside  it  was  placed  the  document  written 
by  him  on  the  eve  of  the  final  act,  —  a  simply  worded 
and  brief  confession  that  he  had  erred  in  the  sight  of 
the    law,    and    that    his    transgression    involved    the 
further  crime  of  taking  the  life  which  he  owed  to  his 

66 


JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ART 

parents  and  ought  to  have  preserved  for  their  sakes. 
A  strangely  sounding  voice  from  the  past  must  this 
have  seemed  to  many  of  those  who  had  come  to  burn 
incense  at  the  painter's  tomb,  —  men  in  whose  mem- 
ory the  events  of  his  last  days  were  still  fresh, 
though  the  epoch  itself  might  have  been  centuries 
removed,  so  great  a  change  had  come  over  the  politi- 
cal complexion  of  the  times.  The  collection  of 
Watanabe's  works  comprised  many  hundred  pictures 
and  studies.  Of  some  it  would  be  difficult  to  speak 
too  highly.  The  combined  vigour  and  delicacy  of 
their  execution,  the  excellence  of  their  composition, 
and  the  life  breathing  from  their  lines  showed  that 
the  anti-foreign  prejudices  of  his  era  inflicted  few 
heavier  losses  on  the  country  than  the  untimely  death 
of  such  a  master.  It  is  not  of  the  purely  Japanese 
pictures,  however,  that  special  mention  should  be 
made  in  this  context,  but  rather  those  showing  traces 
of  Western  influence.  There  are  many  such.  The 
subjects  were  not  distinctly  foreign,  if  some  studies  of 
animal  life  be  excepted  ;  but  evidences  that  the  artist 
had  imbibed  the  spirit  of  Occidental  linear  perspec- 
tive and  chiaroscuro  were  apparent  in  several  pictures, 
otherwise  purely  Japanese.  This  was  notably  true  of 
a  portrait,  half-life  size,  of  a  well-known  Buddhist 
priest.  It  might  have  been  painted  by  a  Western 
artist,  and  would  have  done  credit  to  any  European 
brush  of  Watanabe's  era.  Is  it  not  easy  to  understand 
the  reason  of  the  "  want  of  receptivity"  to  which  Dr. 
Anderson  alludes  ?  The  penalty  of  being  receptive 
was  out  of  proportion  to  the  apparent  reward. 
Undoubtedly  Hokusai  felt  the  influence  obeyed  by 
Kwazan  with  such  fateful  results.  Many  of  the 
works  of  the  great  ukiyo-ye  master  bear  traces  of 

67 


JAPAN 

foreign  methods.  But  he  did  not  carry  this  tendency 
to  the  length  of  attracting  political  censorship.  He 
showed  it  rather  in  the  undefined  though  still  palpa- 
ble manner  of  the  modern  master  Watanabe  Seitei, 
who  enjoys  in  Europe  and  America  the  highest,  though 
not,  perhaps,  the  most  highly  deserved,  reputation  of 
any  living  Japanese  artist.  The  hybrid  school  of  the 
present  day,  however,  goes  far  beyond  the  dubious 
adaptations  of  Hokusai  or  Seitei.  It  has  proposed  to 
itself  the  same  problem  that  Watanabe  Kwazan  par- 
tially solved  sixty  years  ago,  —  the  problem  of  pre- 
serving the  characteristics  of  Japanese  painting  while 
adopting  all  the  technical  teachings  of  the  West. 
Hashimoto  Gaho  stands  at  the  head  of  this  school. 
He  has  talent  sufficient  to  secure  partial  success  for 
any  effort.  But  if  there  be  any  justice  in  the  esti- 
mate here  set  down  of  the  distinctive  characteristics 
of  Japanese  pictorial  art,  the  conclusion  must  be  that 
to  marry  it  to  the  art  of  the  West  would  be  to  deprive 
it  of  its  individuality,  and  therefore  of  much  of  its 
charm. 


68 


Chapter  II 


JAPANESE   APPLIED   ART 

First  Period  —  From  Early  Times  to  the  End  of  the  Eighth  Century 


1 


are  proofs  that  the  ancient  Japanese 
attached  much  importance  to  industrial  occu- 
pations. It  is  not  possible,  indeed,  to  speak 
with  confidence  as  to  the  quality  of  their 
manufactures  except  in  so  far  as  the  contents  of  burial 
mounds  convey  information.  But  history  seems  to 
indicate  that  the  early  settlers,  the  progenitors  of  the 
Japanese  proper,  were  an  industrial  people  rather  than 
an  agricultural ;  for  whereas  the  records  are  almost 
silent  on  the  subject  of  farming,  they  contain  many 
references  to  handicrafts.  It  would  appear  that  the 
whole  of  the  people,  apart  from  the  administrative 
and  military  classes,  were  engaged  solely  in  industrial 
pursuits,  and  that  there  existed  a  species  of  tribal 
division  founded  on  differences  of  occupation.  Thus 
the  annals  speaks  of  yuge-be  (bow-makers)  ;  yahagl-be 
(arrow-makers) ;  tatenui-be  (shield-stitchers)  ;  kura- 
tsukuri-be  (saddlers)  ;  ori-be9  hatorl-be  and  kinu-be 
(weavers  and  tailors)  ;  ko-taukmi  (carpenters)  ;  kanu-be 
(blacksmiths)  ;  nuri-be  (lacquerers) ;  ishi-tsukuri  (stone- 
cutters) ;  and  hashi-be  (bridge  builders).  The  number 
and  variety  of  these  organisations  are  alone  sufficient 
to  imply  a  tolerably  advanced  state  of  industrial  activ- 
ity, although  the  skill  possessed  by  the  artisans  can- 


JAPAN 

not  have  been  of  a  uniformly  high  order.  Occupa- 
tions were  hereditary,  and  it  thus  resulted  that  families 
generally  bore  the  names  of  the  industries  they  prose- 
cuted. Over  each  organisation  a  chief  presided,  his 
title  being  Tomo-no-Miyatsuko  (corporation  master) 
or  Tomo-no-O  (corporation  head).  But  these  artisans 
evidently  did  not  receive  much  public  consideration. 
They  generally  formed  part  of  a  noble's  household, 
and  occupied  there  a  position  not  greatly  better  than 
that  of  vassals  in  whom  their  patrons  enjoyed  a  right 
of  property.  Not  until  the  fifth  century  of  the 
Christian  era  were  they  released  from  this  state  of 
bondage  and  granted  the  status  of  ordinary  subjects. 

The  testimony  of  written  records  and  that  of  relics 
exhumed  from  sepulchres  indicate  that  the  Japanese 
passed  through  two  periods,  a  bronze  age  and  an  iron 
age.1  As  to  the  time  when  the  former  commenced, 
it  seems  certain  that  the  art  of  casting  bronze,  remote 
as  was  its  origin  on  the  Asiatic  continent,  did  not  lie 
within  the  knowledge  of  the  aboriginal  inhabitants 
of  Japan,  but  was  brought  thither  by  immigrants  from 
the  mainland ;  that  is  to  say,  by  the  progenitors  of 
the  Japanese  proper.  It  follows  that  the  oldest 
bronze  castings  in  Japan  do  not  date  from  a  period 
more  remote  than  the  sixth  century,  or,  perhaps,  the 
seventh  before  the  Christian  era,  and  that  no  special 
title  to  antiquity  can  be  set  up  on  their  behalf  as 
compared  with  corresponding  works  in  various  other 
countries. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  the  Japanese  cannot  claim 
any  distinguished  antiquity  for  their  knowledge  of 
the  art  of  bronze  casting,  they  can  certainly  claim  to 
have  escaped  any  period  of  art  degradation  such  as  that 

1  See  Appendix,  note  10. 

70 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

through  which  Europe  passed  after  the  destruction 
of  the  Roman  Empire.  While  Occidental  nations 
now  in  the  van  of  civilisation  were  still  awaiting  the 
impulse  from  Byzantium  which  in  the  middle  of  the 
tenth  century  inspired  their  earliest  achievements  in 
artistic  metal  work,  the  Japanese  were  busily  produc- 
ing many  masterpieces  of  sculpture  and  metallurgy. 
The  continuity  of  her  artistic  capacity  thus  becomes 
a  notable  feature  of  Japan's  story.  Her  record  is 
practically  unbroken,  and  the  progress  of  her  art 
motives  and  methods  can  be  studied  in  uninterrupted 
series  during  some  fifteen  centuries. 

Throughout  a  period  of  four  or  five  hundred  years 
after  the  advent  of  the  immigrants  mentioned  above, 
bronze  apparently  continued  to  be  the  sole  metal  used 
in  the  country,  and  the  only  purposes  it  served  were 
the  manufacture  of  sword-blades  and  arrow-tips. 
Many  bronze  swords  have  been  found  in  the  barrows 
which  formed  the  resting-places  of  the  dead  in  those 
early  ages.  They  are  straight,  two-edged  weapons, 
some  having  a  hilt  of  more  or  less  elaborate  work- 
manship cast  in  one  piece  with  the  blade  ;  others 
having  hafts,  or  tangs,  presumably  for  passing  into 
wooden  hilts.  These  castings  were  made  in  stone 
moulds,  a  few  of  which  still  survive  in  Japan,  though 
their  antiquity  is,  of  course,  a  matter  of  conjecture.1 
Arrow-heads  are  found  associated  with  the  swords, 
but  no  ornamental  castings  of  any  kind  have  been 
discovered,  and  it  may  reasonably  be  conjectured  that 
none  such  existed. 

From  about  the  second  century  before  the  Chris- 
tian era,  iron  began  to  be  applied  to  purposes  hitherto 
served  by  bronze,  and,  at  the  same  time,  evidences 

1  See  Appendix,  note  1 1 . 

71 


JAPAN 

are  afforded  of  a  higher  type  of  civilisation  ;  for  not 
only  are  the  simple  burial  barrows  of  the  first  settlers 
replaced  by  megalithic   dolmens  and  highly  special- 
ised forms  of  chambered   tumuli,  but  also  a  decora- 
tive tendency  is  displayed  in  the  application  of  thin 
sheets  of  copper,  coated  with  gold,  to  the  handles  of 
swords  and  to  the  bits  and  trappings  of  horses.     From 
the  time  when  the  Japanese  learned  the  uses  of  iron, 
they  abandoned  bronze  as  a  material  for  sword  blades, 
though  they  continued  to  employ  it  for  casting  arrow- 
heads.    Spears  with  iron  heads  were  now  added  to 
their  weapons  of  war,  and  they  began  to  cast  bronze 
mirrors  (kagami)  and  small  bells  (suzu).     Mirrors  had 
their  origin  abroad  ;   they  came  either  from    China 
or  Korea.     The  form  of  the  imported  specimens  was 
a  circular  disc,  with  or  without  a  handle,  the  face 
polished  and  quicksilvered,   the    back    covered  with 
decorative  designs  in  relief,  the  character  of  which 
as  well  as  the  quality  of  the  casting  indicated  a  de- 
gree of  artistic  and  technical  skill  beyond  immediate 
attainment    by   the    Japanese.     But   within    a    brief 
period  these  foreign  models  were  rivalled  and  even 
surpassed  by  purely  Japanese  castings. 

As  for  the  bells  of  that  early  epoch,  they  are 
peculiar  objects,  without  any  exact  counterpart  in 
foreign  countries,  so  far  as  is  known.  Hollow 
spheroids,  with  a  slight  cut  in  the  lower  part,  they 
contained  a  piece  of  metal,  or  of  some  other  hard 
substance,  to  serve  as  a  tongue ;  and  they  were  cast 
in  groups  of  three  or  five  round  the  rim  of  a  metal 
plate,  having  a  tang  which  served  to  attach  it,  as  an 
ornamental  appendage,  to  horse  trappings,  ceremonial 
robes,  or  hilts  of  swords,  or  to  fasten  it  to  a  wooden 
staff  which  was  carried  in  the  hand  and  shaken  so  as 

72 


.T>IA   '-iO    YTIllU    111  IT   ''1O    .TJTA1V,    '/[3QOOW 
•  ViuJnao  rin;  :-luo2 


WOODEN    STATUE    OF   THE   DEITY    OF   ART. 

Sculptor  unknown.    End  of  eighth  century. 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

to  produce  cymbal-like  notes.  These  little  bells  were 
often  plated  with  gold,  and  occasionally  they  were 
cast  with  a  decorative  design  in  relief.  Their  use  as 
pendants  for  ornamental  purposes  corresponds  with  a 
similar  employment  of  the  well-known  maga-tama 
(bent  jewels),  or  crescent-shaped  pieces  of  steatite, 
jasper,  quartz,  or  other  stones,  which  were  attached 
to  garments,  trappings,  musical  instruments,  and  sword- 
hilts  by  the  ancient  Japanese,  and  of  which  numerous 
specimens  may  be  seen  in  any  collection  of  Far 
Eastern  antiquities. 

Among  the  early  iron  castings  of  Japan  there  are 
objects  whose  use  remains  to  this  day  uncertain.  At 
first  sight  they  suggest  the  idea  of  bells,  their  shape 
being  that  of  a  truncated  pyramid,  with  two  ribbon- 
like  flanges  running  up  the  sides  and  arched  over 
the  top  so  as  to  afford  a  means  of  suspension.  The 
surface  is  usually  divided  by  vertical  and  horizontal 
bands  in  relief,  and  groups  of  circular  discs  protrude 
from  the  flanges  at  regular  intervals.  There  is 
great  variety  of  dimensions,  some  being  as  small  as 
an  inch  in  height,  others  as  large  as  five  and  one-half 
feet ;  in  every  case  the  thinness  of  the  metal  is  re- 
markable, —  one-sixteenth  of  an  inch,  for  example, 
where  the  height  of  the  object  is  fifty- four  inches 
and  the  diameter  at  the  base  twenty  inches,  —  and 
the  workmanship  indicates  considerable  skill.  These 
curious  objects  are  found  buried  in  the  earth  in  the 
provinces  of  Yamato,  Kawachi,  and  Totomi,  localities 
which  help  to  connect  them  with  the  early  Japanese 
immigrants.  There  are  no  indications  that  they 
served  as  bells,  and  the  great  thinness  of  the  metal 
is  in  itself  sufficient  to  preclude  that  theory.  Since, 
further,  they  belong  to  a  period  prior  to  the  intro- 

73 


JAPAN 

duction  of  Buddhism,  they  cannot  be  supposed  to 
have  been  part  of  temple  paraphernalia.  Perhaps  the 
most  tenable  supposition  is  that  they  served  for  the  ex- 
ternal decoration  of  the  first  buildings  made  in  Japan 
after  Chinese  models,  having  been  suspended  from 
the  corners  of  the  eaves  in  the  manner  of  the  bell- 
shaped  pendants  of  pagodas.  Already  in  the  seventh 
century  of  the  Christian  era  they  had  become  antiqui- 
ties, and  it  seems  natural  to  infer  that  the  fashion, 
architectural  or  otherwise,  with  which  their  employ- 
ment was  connected,  went  out  of  vogue  in  the  first  or 
second  century.  Occasionally  there  are  cast  upon  the 
surfaces  of  these  bells  decorative  designs  indicating  a 
very  crude  stage  of  pictorial  art ;  for  example,  figures 
even  more  rudimentary  in  outline  than  the  conventional 
sketches  of  ancient  Egypt. 

There  is  evidence  that  by  the  time  of  the  Emperor 
Nitoku  (313—399)  considerable  skill  had  been  developed 
in  the  use  of  bronze,  iron,  and  gold  for  decorative  pur- 
pose. Gold  plating  was  applied  with  dexterity  to 
bronze  and  iron  alike ;  decoration  not  without  deli- 
cacy and  grace  appears  upon  the  hilts  of  swords,  and 
cleverly  conceived  motives,  modelled  and  chiselled 
with  ability,  are  seen  upon  the  pommels,  —  motives 
indicating  that  the  artists  of  that  early  epoch  had 
passed  the  stage  of  merely  copying  natural  objects 
and  had  learned  to  conventionalise  them.  Helmets 
formed  of  numerous  thin  iron  plates  riveted  together 
and  overlaid  with  gold,  had  bands  of  incised  orna- 
mentation and  peaks  chiselled  a  jour,  and  were  alto- 
gether objects  of  fine  workmanship,  though  the 
incised  ornamentation  —  conventionalised  fishes,  birds, 
and  animals,  enclosed  by  borders  of  undulating  lines 
—  showed  very  imperfect  command  of  the  graving- 

74 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

tool,  and  gave  no  earnest  of  the  remarkable  ability 
that  Japanese  artists  were  destined  ultimately  to  dis- 
play in  this  line.  Reference  must  also  be  made  to 
delicate  cable-pattern  gold  chains  with  leaf-shaped 
pendants  and  pearl  ornaments,  objects  of  which  the  use 
has  not  been  clearly  divined,  though  the  generally  re- 
ceived idea  is  that  they  were  suspended  from  the  helmet. 
It  is  thus  seen  that,  on  the  whole,  the  Japanese  metal- 
worker of  the  fourth  century  was  a  handicraftsman 
of  no  mean  skill,  though  the  applications  of  his  art 
had  a  narrow  range. 

The  advent  of  Buddhism  in  the  sixth  century 
introduced  a  new  standard  of  art  conception,  though 
commensurate  attainment  did  not  immediately  fol- 
low. After  the  year  552  religious  statues  began 
to  arrive  from  Korea  in  some  numbers,  and  these, 
as  well  as  the  bronze  images  modelled  in  Japan  dur- 
ing the  next  sixty  or  seventy  years,  show  sculpture 
which  has  not  yet  fully  emerged  from  its  primitive 
stage.  Not  only  are  traces  of  the  chisel  shallow  and 
uncertain,  but  the  facial  expression  of  the  deities  and 
their  poses  are  mechanical  and  lifeless.  It  is  easy  to 
see  that  the  tools  available  were  rudimentary,  the 
sculptor  apparently  being  provided  with  nothing 
better  than  a  straight  chisel.  The  relationship  of 
these  statues  to  the  rude  stone-images  of  early  and 
mediaeval  Japan  is  unmistakable.  There  is  in  both 
alike  the  same  geometrically  formal  disposition  of 
the  drapery,  offering  no  suggestion  of  the  great  skill 
subsequently  acquired  by  Japanese  sculptors  in  the 
representation  of  still  life,  and  the  method  of  con- 
struction is  that  practised  by  the  metal-workers  of  all 
countries  in  the  initial  stage  of  their  art,  namely,  cast- 
ing or  beating  by  the  repousse  process  into  the  required 

75 


JAPAN 

shape  two  thin  plates  of  metal,  one  for  the  back,  the 
other  for  the  front,  of  the  projected  figure,  and  sub- 
sequently riveting  them  together  at  the  edges.  Many 
examples  of  a  similar  style  of  workmanship  are  seen 
in  Korea,  and  confirmation  is  thus  incidentally  fur- 
nished of  the  tradition  which  assigns  to  Korean 
artists  the  credit  of  having  been  Japan's  original 
instructors  in  the  sculpture  of  religious  images.  Yet 
no  name  of  any  of  these  Korean  teachers  has  been 
preserved.  The  first  sculptor  mentioned  in  Japanese 
annals  is  Shiba  Tachito,  a  Chinese  immigre,  who  is 
said  to  have  come  to  Japan  in  the  year  560  A.  D.,  and 
to  have  received  from  the  Emperor  the  title  of  kurat- 
sukuri  no  obito,  or  head  architect.  His  son,  Shiba 
Tasu-na,  succeeded  to  the  office,  and  it  is  recorded 
that  many  sacred  effigies  were  chiselled  in  wood  either 
by  these  artists  thenselves  or  under  their  instruction. 
They  also  superintended  the  building  of  Buddhist 
temples  which,  though  solid  and  imposing  edifices, 
did  not,  at  that  remote  era,  receive  the  wealth  of 
interior  decoration  in  glyptic  work,  lacquering  and 
painting,  for  which  Buddhist  places  of  worship  subse- 
quently became  remarkable.  No  authenticated  speci- 
mens of  sculpture  by  either  Shiba  Tachi-to  or  Shiba 
Tasu-na  are  now  in  existence,  but  from  the  time  of 
Shiba  Tori,  grandson  of  Shiba  Tachi-to,  credible  exam- 
ples survive.  This  sculptor,  generally  known  as  Tori 
Busshi,  attained  extraordinary  fame.  His  skill,  which 
seems  to  have  completely  overshadowed  that  of  his  con- 
temporaries or  predecessors,  receives  from  posterity  a 
significant  tribute,  namely,  that  every  fine  carving 
possessing  any  claim  to  great  antiquity  is  habitually 
ascribed  to  him  by  ignorant  people,  and  some  have 
not  even  hesitated  to  regard  him  as  the  painter  of 

76 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

a  fine  example  of  mural  decoration  at  the  temple 
Horyu-ji,  though  such  a  theory  is  untenable.  His- 
tory first  speaks  of  Shiba  Tori  in  connection  with 
three  images  which  he  carved  in  wood  to  order  of 
the  Emperor  Yomei,  in  the  year  586  A.  D.  ;  namely, 
an  effigy  of  Shaka,  sixteen  feet  high,  with  two  attend- 
ant Bodhisattvas  of  smaller  dimensions.  These  were 
placed  in  a  temple  specially  built  for  their  reception 
at  Minabuchi,  the  temple  and  the  images  being  an 
offering  to  invoke  heaven's  healing  grace  for  the  sick 
Sovereign.  No  vestige  of  these  sculptures  remains. 
Shiba  Tori  is  also  said  to  have  chiselled  many  wooden 
images  to  order  of  the  Emperor  Yomei's  son,  Prince 
Shotoku — remembered  by  posterity  as  Shotoku  Taishi. 
Shotoku  never  came  to  the  throne.  He  filled  the 
post  of  regent  during  the  reign  of  the  Empress  Suiko 
(56  3—6  28).  The  earliest  Japanese  historiographer  and 
Buddhist  commentator,  he  left  an  unequalled  reputa- 
tion for  learning,  piety,  and  statesmanship,  and  among 
all  the  factors  making  for  the  spread  of  Buddhism  in 
that  era,  his  influence  had  probably  most  efficacy. 
Many  sculptures  in  wood,  said  to  be  from  his  chisel, 
are  preserved  at  various  places  in  Japan,  but  there  is 
reason  to  think  that  a  majority  of  them  are  apocry- 
phal. One,  however,  is  regarded  as  authentic  by 
connoisseurs.  It  is  a  statue  of  Kwannon,  the  goddess 
of  mercy,  six  and  a  half  feet  high,  its  comparatively 
defective  technique  redeemed  by  considerable  grace 
of  pose  and  passionless  refinement  of  feature.  Shiba 
Tori's  work,  of  which  fully  authenticated  examples 
are  preserved  in  the  temple  Horiu-ji,  betrays  greatly 
inferior  development  of  artistic  instinct,  his  images 
being  squat,  ill-proportioned,  and  deficient  in  dignity. 
They  are  apparently  Chinese  modifications  of  Indian 

77 


JAPAN 

types.  Contrasted  with  these  figures,  Shotoku's  Kwan- 
non  shows  that  already  at  this  early  period  Japanese 
genius  had  begun  to  break  away  from  the  mechanical 
formalism  of  Korea.  On  the  other  hand,  as  might 
be  expected  from  the  evidence  of  objects  found  in 
dolmens,  the  decorative  metal  work  of  Prince  Sho- 
toku's time  is  of  a  more  advanced  character  than  the 
sculptor's  art.  The  halos  of  sacred  effigies  and  the 
ornaments  attached  to  objects  of  temple  furniture  or 
used  for  the  decoration  of  the  temples  themselves, 
show  considerable  skill  in  chiselling  a  jour  as  well  as 
in  repousse,  and  the  designs  indicate  an  already  advanced 
conception  of  decorative  motives  as  well  as  a  just  sense 
of  proportion  and  orderly  arrangement.  Notable 
among  illustrative  specimens  is  a  pendant  of  gilt 
bronze  destined  originally  to  hang  from  the  ceiling 
of  the  temple  Horiu-ji.  It  is  6.96  metres  long,  and 
consists  of  six  sections  united  by  hinges,  each  section 
having  a  pierced  design  of  plants,  flowers,  clouds,  and 
emblems,  the  whole  constituting  a  fine  piece  of 
decorative  work. 

From  the  second  half  of  the  seventh  century 
progress  became  very  marked,  and,  at  the  same  time, 
the  character  of  the  sculpture  suggests  emancipation 
from  Korean  influence  and  closer  approach  to  Chinese, 
with  evident  elements  of  Indian  style,  as  is  under- 
stood by  recalling  that  China  under  the  Tang  dynasty 
had  very  intimate  relations  with  India.  The  history 
of  the  epoch  furnishes  an  explanation  of  these 
changes,  for  it  tells  that  Japan's  intercourse  with 
China  became  altogether  direct  without  any  Korean 
intervention.  But  although,  on  the  one  hand,  the 
sculptor  evidently  feels  Indo-Grecian  inspiration, 
although  the  winged  steeds  and  griffins  of  Assyria 

78 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

make  their  appearance  in  decorative  schemes,  as  do 
also  conventionalised  plants  and  foliage,  especially  the 
acanthus,  and  although  the  wide  inter-relations  of 
Asiatic  countries  and  their  occasional  contact  even 
with  Greece  and  Rome  find  evident  expression,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  realistic  and  grace-loving  genius  of  the 
Japanese  begins  to  show  itself  very  distinctly.  Many 
authenticated  relics  of  the  period  survive.  They 
indicate  a  development  of  technical  skill  scarcely 
credible  by  comparison  with  the  rudimentary  essays 
of  the  preceding  cycle,  and  they  indicate  also  a  con- 
ception of  majestic  beauty  wholly  unpredicted  by  any 
examples  of  earlier  statuary,  except,  perhaps,  the 
Kwannon  of  Prince  Shotoku.  It  is  to  this  epoch 
that  posterity  owes  two  groups  of  bronze  statues 
justly  regarded  with  admiration.  One  is  the  three 
Amidas  of  Koriu-ji ;  the  other  Yakushi  and  his 
two  acolytes  in  the  temple  Yakushi-ji.  Compara- 
tively small  figures,  —  0.32  metre  in  height, — the 
central  effigy  of  the  three  Amidas  is  seated,  the  two 
others  stand  on  lotus  flowers,  the  stalks  of  which 
rise  from  a  dais  having  for  background  a  reredos  on 
which  Buddhist  figures  are  cast  in  medium  relief. 
This  remarkably  graceful  and  beautiful  object  is  tech- 
nically far  superior  to  anything  of  the  previous  epoch, 
and  the  majestically  benign  repose  that  pervades  the 
figures  belongs  to  a  high  range  of  artistic  conception. 
It  is  known  that  these  statues  were  executed  by 
order  of  Tachibana,  spouse  of  the  Emperor  Tenchi 
(668-671),  but  the  name  of  their  artist  has  not  been 
preserved.  The  Yakushi  group  is  of  even  greater 
excellence.  Its  central  figure  (Bhaichadjya-guru)  — 
4.25  metres  in  height  —  is  seated  on  a  dais,  also  of 
bronze,  the  faces  of  which  have  demons  cast  in  relief 

79 


JAPAN 

and  the  borders  are  decorated  with  dragons,  swans, 
phoenixes,  tortoises,  serpents,  and  vine-scrolls.  The 
Sun  and  Moon  effigies  stand  on  either  side.  They 
measure  3.94  metres  with  the  lotus  flowers  that  form 
their  pedestals.  There  is  no  question  about  the  essen- 
tially Grecian  type  of  the  faces  of  this  group  ;  and 
the  spirit  and  vigour  of  the  work  show  that  the  wave 
of  Occidental  culture  which  flowed  into  China  dur- 
ing the  period  of  the  Six  Dynasties  reached  Japan 
also  and  found  there  more  faithful  interpreters  than 
those  of  China  herself.  A  popular  fallacy,  endorsed 
by  more  than  one  writer,  describes  the  materials  of 
these  figures  as  shakudo,  —  an  ebony-like  compound 
peculiar  to  Japan,  —  but  shakudo  had  not  yet  been 
invented ;  the  images  are  of  dark  bronze. 

The  statues  of  this  period  are  no  longer  composed 
of  two  repousse  plates  fastened  together  at  the  edges : 
they  are  cast  by  the  cire-perdue  process.  In  the  pre- 
ceding epoch  earthen  moulds  were  used,  but  the 
Japanese  had  now  become  acquainted  with  the  in- 
comparably more  effective  method  of  a  wax  shell. 
That  alone  constitutes  a  remarkable  advance  in  tech- 
nical knowledge,  —  an  advance  made,  doubtless,  under 
Chinese  instruction,  —  and  the  statues  described  above 
show  further  that  the  users  of  the  chisel  had  become 
very  skilled,  all  the  details  of  the  figures  themselves, 
of  the  drapery,  and  of  the  accessories  being  worked 
out  forcibly  and  with  artistic  feeling. 

The  only  sculptors  of  this  period  whose  names 
are  remembered  are  Oguchi,  Kimara,  Yakushi,  and 
Kanashi,  but  as  none  of  their  works  has  been  identi- 
fied, little  interest  attaches  to  the  names. 

Early  Japanese  sculpture  reached  its  first  culminat- 
ing period  in  the  eighth  century ;  that  is  to  say,  the 

80 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

century  immediately  subsequent  to  the  era  of  Tori, 
Ouchi,  Shotoku,  and  the  unknown  modellers  of  the 
three  Amidas  and  the  Yakushi  Trinity  just  described. 
Among  the  masters  who  illumined  this  golden  era 
the  names  are  recorded  of  Gyogi,  a  Buddhist  priest 
immortalised  by  his  contributions  to  every  branch  of 
material  progress  in  his  time ;  Hien  Wantsz,  whose 
nationality  is  uncertain,  some  calling  him  a  Korean, 
some  an  Indian,  and  some  a  Chinese ;  Kimimaro,  the 
founder  of  a  colossal  effigy  of  Buddha,  the  well- 
known  "  Nara  Dai-Butsu,"  which  stands  in  the  tem- 
ple Todai-ji ;  the  three  artists,  Takaichi  Makuni, 
Takaichi  Mamaro,  and  Kakino  Moto-no-Otoma,  who 
assisted  Kimimaro  in  his  great  work,  and  finally, 
two  brothers,  Keibunkai  and  Keibunkomi,  generally 
known  in  their  time  as  the  Kasuga  sculptors,  since 
they  came  from  a  district  called  Kasuga-mura. 

Speaking  broadly,  the  eighth  century  is  remem- 
bered by  Japanese  students  as  the  "  Nara  epoch," 
because  the  custom  previously  observed  of  changing 
the  capital  with  each  change  of  sovereign  was  aban- 
doned at  the  beginning  of  that  century,  and  Nara 
continued  to  be  the  residence  of  the  Court  through 
seven  generations.  Comparatively  little  is  known  of 
the  Nara  Palace,  though  many  of  the  articles  and 
ornaments  used  by  its  inmates  survive  in  a  celebrated 
collection  which  during  nearly  twelve  hundred  years 
has  been  preserved  in  a  storehouse  connected  with 
the  Shoso-in  at  that  place.  But  some  of  the  seven 
massive  and  beautiful  temples  erected  in  the  days  of 
the  city's  greatness  stand  still  intact,  and  their  graceful 
proportions,  together  with  the  sculptures  and  paint- 
ings they  contain,  speak  eloquently  of  a  refined  and 
even  luxurious  civilisation.  Nothing  is  more  re- 

VOL.    VII. 6  8  I 


JAPAN 

markable  about  the    Nara   epoch   than  the  vigorous 
growth   of    the    Buddhist    creed.      Throughout    the 
reign  of  all   the    Sovereigns   that   held    their    Court 
there,  no   expenditure  was  thought   excessive  in  the 
service  of  religion.      All  the  artistic  resources  of  the 
time  were  devoted  to  the  embellishment  and  furnish- 
ing of  the  temples.      The  priests  attached  so  much 
importance  to  art   as    a    means    of  appealing  to   the 
emotional  side  of  human  nature,  that  several   of  the 
greatest  among  them  were  themselves  skilled  painters 
and  sculptors,  contributing  even  more  to  the  material 
and   artistic  development    of   their   time  than  to  its 
moral  elevation.      It  may,  indeed,  be   truly  said,  that 
the  spread  of  Buddhism  was   synchronous   with   the 
rise  of  art  and  science  in  Japan.      Carpenters,  from 
the    practice    acquired   in   building    temples,   learned 
how  to  construct  large  edifices ;    sculptors  and  metal- 
lurgists became  skilful  by  casting  or  graving  idols  of 
bronze,  wood,  and  gold  ;  painting,  decorative  weaving, 
the   ornamentation   of  utensils,  and  the  illumination 
of  missals  owed  their  expert  achievement  to  the  pa- 
tronage and  instruction  of  Buddhist  monks ;  almost 
the    first   real    impetus    given  to    the    potter's  art  is 
associated   with    the    name  of  a   priest,  —  in   short, 
nearly   every  branch    of   industrial    and    artistic    de- 
velopment  stood   more   or   less   indebted   to  the   in- 
fluence of  the   creed.     It   is    impossible   to   endorse 
the  verdict  of  Japanese  critics  when  they  hold  Bud- 
dhism  responsible    for    decadence    and    retrogression 
which  in  reality  marked,  not  the  evil  effects  of  the 
creed  itself  or  of  its  propagandism,  but  a  temporary 
diminution  of  its  beneficent  influence.      Many  abuses 
grew   out   of  the   arrogance,    avarice,    and   ambition 
of  the  priests  towards  the  close  of  the  Nara  epoch, 

82 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

but  nothing  could  efface  the  work  they  had  already 
achieved. 

In  his  conception  of  an  ancient  Japanese  Imperial 
city  like  Nara,  the  reader  must  not  be  guided  by 
Western  models.  He  must  not  imagine  a  vast  ag- 
glomeration of  buildings,  warehouses,  stores,  theatres, 
residences,  hotels,  and  so  forth,  from  which  the  Palace 
is  separated  by  its  surrounding  park.  He  must  rather 
conceive  two  entirely  independent  towns :  the  one 
composed  of  lowly  wooden  cottages,  clustered  closely 
together  and  sheltering  an  industrious,  cheerful,  but 
profoundly  humble  population ;  the  other  an  assem- 
blage of  structures  colossal  by  comparison,  the  temples 
of  the  gods,  looking  out  upon  beautiful  landscapes, 
and  sheltered  by  hills  that  slope  softly  downward  to 
crystal  lakes,  forest  glades,  and  parterres  of  glowing 
blossom.  In  this  second,  or  sacred,  city  stood  the 
Palace,  and  the  gulf  that  divided  the  quietly  toiling  ple- 
beians in  the  one  quarter  from  the  nobles  and  courtiers 
in  the  other  was  bridged  only  by  the  benevolence  and 
philanthropy  of  the  Buddhist  priests.  To  be  pros- 
perous in  business  here,  to  be  relieved  hereafter  from 
the  pain  of  perpetual  inferiority,  —  these  were  the 
blessings  that  the  commoner  associated  with  piety, 
while  for  the  upper  classes  it  meant  successful  sway, 
victory  in  arms,  and  prosperity. 

One  notable  result  of  this  religious  fervour  was  that 
the  sculptor's  chisel  found  perpetual  employment  in 
producing  images  for  the  seven  great  temples  erected 
at  Nara  and  for  other  scarcely  less  important  edifices 
in  the  surrounding  provinces.  The  art  of  sculpture 
thus  reached  its  apogee  in  fertility  of  conception  and 
beauty  of  execution.  Hundreds  of  specimens  survive 
from  the  epoch,  and  it  becomes  possible  to  speak  of 

83 


JAPAN 

its  productions  with  considerable  confidence.  The 
proportions  of  the  various  figures,  their  attitudes  and 
their  draperies  show  great  fidelity  of  observation  ;  the 
faces  have  a  character  of  combined  majesty  and  seren- 
ity ;  the  technique  is  generally  excellent,  and  the  ar- 
tists have  succeeded  in  effecting  a  happy  union  of 
idealism  and  realism.  Wood  carvings  of  really  fine 
type  make  their  appearance  now  for  the  first  time, 
and  the  epoch  is  also  remarkable  not  only  for  colossal 
castings  such  as  no  other  Oriental  country  has  pro- 
duced, but  also  for  statues  in  clay  and  in  dry  lacquer. 

The  clay  statues,  sun-dried,  not  baked  in  a  furnace, 
were  modelled  on  a  wooden  core  wrapped  in  straw 
which  carried  a  coating  of  earth  and  boiled  rice. 
For  the  surface  work  the  material  employed  was 
potter's  clay  and  talc,  and  to  the  finished  figure 
colours  were  applied.  It  is  not  improbable  that  the 
idea  of  such  a  method  was  suggested  by  the  cire- 
perdue  process  of  casting.  But  although  very  fine 
results  were  obtained  during  the  Nara  epoch,  model- 
ling in  clay  was  not  much  practised  in  later  times, 
and  ultimately  the  fashion  became  limited  to  keram- 
ists  and  puppet-makers. 

The  dry-lacquer  process  presented  many  difficul- 
ties and  demanded  great  care.  Two  methods  are 
described  by  Japanese  writers.  In  one,  the  upper 
part  of  the  statue  having  been  modelled  in  clay,  a 
hollow  mould  was  taken  from  it,  and  into  this  was 
poured  a  coating  of  fine  lacquer  destined  to  form  the 
outside  of  the  figure.  Into  the  interior,  lacquer  of 
gradually  increasing  thickness  was  run  in  layers,  and 
the  statue,  having  been  ultimately  drawn  from  the 
mould,  was  overlaid  with  a  composition  of  incense, 
leaves,  and  bark  of  the  Illicium  religiosum  (shikimt), 

84 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

dried  and  reduced  to  powder,  decayed  earth  from  the 
bed  of  a  pond,  and  potter's  clay.  The  head  and  torso 
thus  constructed  were  then  fixed  on  a  wooden  frame 
wrapped  in  cloth,  and  finally  the  arms  and  legs,  hav- 
ing been  modelled  independently,  were  fastened  in 
position  with  lacquer.  The  second  method  was  much 
simpler.  In  this  the  sculptor  commenced  by  chisel- 
ling a  statue  in  wood,  to  which  he  applied  a  coat  of 
tolerably  coarse  lacquer,  and  then  a  layer  of  cotton 
material,  on  which,  finally,  a  coat  of  fine  lacquer  was 
superposed.  Delicate  work  was  not  possible  by  this 
second  process. 

At  the  head  of  all  the  sculptures  of  the  eighth  cen- 
tury it  is  usual  to  place  a  huge  bronze  image  of 
Lochana  Buddha,  known  as  the  "  Nara  Dai-Butsu." 
It  certainly  deserves  that  distinction  in  some  respects, 
for  it  is  fifty- three  feet  high,  and  the  difficulty  of 
making  such  a  casting  must  have  been  immense. 
But  however  beautifully  proportioned  the  colossal 
idol  may  have  been  originally,  clumsy  restorations  in 
the  sequel  of  conflagrations  and  other  accidents  have 
so  marred  it  that  it  can  no  longer  be  compared  with 
many  smaller  examples  of  contemporary  sculpture. 
The  intellectual  energy  and  technical  resources  of  the 
artist  that  conceived  and  executed  such  a  work  com- 
mand admiration,  but  the  measure  of  artistic  success 
he  attained  is  now  a  matter  of  conjecture  only.  Other 
specimens  of  the  time  convey  fuller  information.  A 
series  of  clay  statuettes  preserved  in  the  temple 
Horyu-ji  show,  in  a  very  marked  degree,  evidence 
of  the  humour  for  which  Japanese  sculpture  became 
famous  many  hundred  years  subsequently  ;  humour 
which  is  conspicuously  absent  in  the  works  of  China 
and  Korea  alike.  On  a  much  higher  plane  of  art, 

85 


JAPAN 

however,  stand  four  clay  statues  of  the  Deva  Kings, 
which  are  among  the  treasured  relics  of  T6dai-ji. 
Trampling  on  the  demons  they  have  subdued,  the 
faces  of  the  four  Devas  display  four  different  phases 
of  combat,  from  fierce  defiance  and  strong  effort  to 
stern  resolve  and  calm  triumph  ;  their  attitudes  are 
modelled  in  consonance  with  these  moods  ;  the  details 
of  their  armour  and  costume  are  skilfully  rendered, 
and  their  proportions  betray  no  anatomical  errors. 
Even  greater  force  of  conception  is  attributed  by 
Japanese  connoisseurs  to  a  clay  statue  of  Shikongd 
(Vadjrapani),  belonging  also  to  the  gallery  of  the 
eighth  century  and  kept  in  the  same  temple,  Todai-ji. 
This  statue  has  suffered  much  from  the  effects  of 
time,  and  the  condition  of  its  right  arm  greatly  im- 
pairs the  general  effect ;  but  such  as  it  is,  it  certainly 
deserves  much  of  the  praise  bestowed  on  it  since  the 
public  began  to  discover  that  early  Japanese  statuary 
merits  attention.  Among  eighth-century  works  in 
dry  lacquer,  undoubtedly  the  most  notable  are  the 
Hokke-do  Trinity,  by  the  priest  Roben.  These 
figures  present  a  marked  contrast  to  the  four  Devas 
and  the  Shikongo  mentioned  above.  Brahma  and 
Indra,  whose  effigies  form  the  acolytes  of  the  group, 
are  shown  in  an  attitude  of  prayer,  the  expression 
of  the  faces  majestically  and  profoundly  serene,  and 
even  the  folds  of  their  garments  modelled  so  as  to 
accentuate  the  idea  of  passionless  piety.  A  wide 
interval  separated  these  figures  from  the  conventional 
Indian  deity  which  threatened  at  first  to  impose  its 
type  upon  the  Japanese  sculptor.  There  is  here 
nothing  whatever  of  the  curiously  modelled  torso, 
the  massive  sensuous  cast  of  features,  and  the  jewelled 
tiara  which  some  of  the  earliest  Japanese  sculptures 

86 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

recall.  The  one  fault  is  excessive  breadth  of  shoulders 
and  consequent  lack  of  grace.  As  to  statues  carved 
in  wood,  the  most  celebrated  is  that  of  the  Eleven- 
faced  Kwannon  preserved  in  the  temple  Hokke-ji. 
Nine  of  the  eleven  faces  form  a  circlet  for  the  head 
of  the  goddess,  and  are  divided  into  groups  of  three, 
one  group  smiling,  the  second  ironical,  and  the  third 
gentle ;  and  placed  above  them  all  is  a  somewhat 
larger  head  breathing  perfect  calm.  There  has  been 
attributed  to  this  statue  extreme  beauty  of  composi- 
tion and  execution  ;  but  the  very  obvious  faults  of  ill- 
proportioned  limbs,  a  squat  figure,  and  somewhat 
clumsily  chiselled  drapery  disqualify  the  statue  for 
such  applause.  It  shows,  indeed,  little  superiority 
to  the  bronze  Kwannon  of  Yakushi-ji,  cast  about  a 
century  earlier. 

If  any  confident  judgment  may  be  based  on  the 
articles  in  the  Shoso-in  collection,  it  would  appear 
that  the  applied  art  of  Japan  had  already  reached  a 
high  stage  of  development  in  the  eighth  century. 
The  collection  comprises  more  than  three  thousand 
specimens,  —  bells,  swords,  mirrors,  desks,  musical 
instruments,  censers,  objects  of  virtu,  articles  of  cos- 
tume, chess-boards,  vases,  glass  utensils,  tissues,  paint- 
ings, books,  and  reliquaries.  Many  of  them  exhibit 
workmanship  of  remarkable  delicacy  and  skill  ;  so 
much  so  that  a  certain  measure  of  credulity  is  required 
on  the  part  of  any  one  attributing  them  to  Japanese 
artists  and  artisans.  Yet  when,  in  the  year  756,  the 
Emperor  Shomu  donated  a  majority  of  these  objects 
to  the  temple  Todai-ji,  they  were  accompanied  by  a 
list  in  which  it  was  recorded  that  several  swords  and 
screens  were  Chinese  and  that  a  reliquary  and  a  screen 
were  Korean,  the  inference  obviously  suggested  being 

8? 


JAPAN 

that  all  the  rest  were  Japanese.      If  that  deduction  be 
warranted,  the  Japanese  of  the  eighth  century  could 
do   these   things:    they    could    sculpture  metal  deli- 
cately and  minutely,  using  a  number  of  chisels  and 
burins,  and  thus  showing  a  long  step  of  progress  from 
the  sixth-century  time  of  few  and  ineffective  imple- 
ments ;  they  could  inlay  metals  with  mother-of-pearl 
and  amber ;  they  could  apply  cloisonne  decoration  to 
objects  of  gold,  the  cloisons  being  of  silver  and  some- 
what clumsy ;   they  could  work  skilfully  in  lacquer, 
black,  and  golden;  they  could  encrust  gold  with  jew- 
els ;  they  could  chisel  metal  in  designs  "a  jour  or  in  the 
round,  both  with  much  skill ;   they  could  cast  bronze 
by  the  dre-perdue  process,  showing  detailed  work  as 
clear  as  though  it  had  been  finished  with   the  chisel ; 
they   could  encrust   wood  with  ivory,   plain   or  col- 
oured,   and   inlay    it    with  mother-of-pearl,  gold,  or 
silver  ;  they  could  weave  rich    brocades ;    they   could 
paint  decorative  or  pictorial  designs  on  wood,   over- 
laying them  with  translucid  varnish  which  preserved 
the  colours  fresh  for  centuries ;  and  they  could  manu- 
facture coloured    glass.     The     difficulty    which    the 
student  encounters  in  assigning  these  beautiful  objects 
to  Japanese  artists  is  that  in  not  one  instance  do  the 
decorative  designs  bear  a  purely  Japanese  character, 
and  that  in  many  instances  they  are  essentially   Chi- 
nese, Indian,  or  Persian.      It  is  of  course  conceivable 
that   Japanese    decorative    artists    may    not   yet   have 
emerged  from  the  copying  stage,   and  that  they  bor- 
rowed   motives    frankly  and  faithfully  from  foreign 
sources.      But,  on  the  other  hand,  if  these  objects  had 
been  of  native   production,   would    the    Nara    Court 
have  placed  them  among  the  treasures  of  the  princi- 
pal   temple?     It   seems  more   reasonable    to    believe 


WOODEN   STATUE   OF   MANJUSRI. 

The  renowned  Bodhisattva.     By  Unkel.     1180-1220. 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

that  they  were  rare  articles  of  foreign  provenance, 
and  that  they  indicate  nothing  beyond  the  refined 
taste  of  the  Japanese  of  that  epoch. 

Two  specimens  of  art  workmanship  may,  however, 
be  specially  referred  to  as  indisputably  illustrative  of 
eighth-century  Japanese  skill.  One  is  a  gong  framed 
in  the  coils  of  four  dragons,  which  rise  from  entwin- 
ing a  pillar  poised  on  the  back  of  a  Dog  of  Fo,  the 
whole  in  bronze ;  the  other  is  a  richly  lacquered 
drum,  set  in  a  frame  of  gilt  bronze  chiselled  #  jour 
in  a  design  of  dragons  and  phoenixes,  and  surmounted 
by  a  radiant  sun.  The  Japanese  obtained  the  dragon 
and  the  Dog  of  Fo  (sbisbi)  from  China,  as  well  as 
the  idea  of  using  the  latter  by  way  of  pedestal ;  but 
there  are  points  about  this  beautifully  designed  bronze 
gong  which  prove  its  Japanese  provenance,  and  the 
central  decorative  scheme  on  the  lacquered  drum  — 
a  triple  combination  of  the  male  and  female  princi- 
ples —  is  essentially  Japanese.  To  the  makers  of  such 
objects  a  high  degree  of  artistic  and  technical  attain- 
ment must  be  conceded,  though  there  is  not  sufficient 
reason  to  credit  them  with  the  varied  exercise  of  skill 
shown  by  the  Shoso-in  specimens. 

Among  Japanese  commentators  and  antiquarians 
there  is  a  tendency,  followed  by  several  foreign 
students  also,  to  detect  strong  traces  of  Chinese  and 
Korean  influence  in  the  works  described  above,  and 
even  to  attribute  some  of  the  best  of  them  to  Korean 
or  Chinese  sculptors.  But  before  accepting  such  a 
theory  this  question  has  to  be  answered  :  If  a  Korean 
or  a  Chinese  expert  working  in  Japan  before  the  close 
of  the  eighth  century  was  capable  of  modelling  fig- 
ures like  the  four  Deva  Kings  and  the  Brahma  of 
Todai-ji,  why  did  none  of  the  numerous  Chinese  and 

89 


JAPAN 

Korean  sculptors  who  worked  to  meet  the  demands 
of  the  Buddhist  religion  in  their  own  countries,  suc- 
ceed in  producing  a  single  masterpiece  comparable 
with  these  effigies  ?  Tradition  is  so  confident  about 
the  debt  owed  by  Japan's  artists  to  the  neighbouring 
continental  countries  that  the  broad  fact  may  not  be 
doubted,  especially  as  there  are  internal  evidences  of  its 
partial  truth.  But  the  amount  of  the  borrowing  is 
open  to  query.  It  is  contrary  to  the  suggestions  of 
reason  or  the  teachings  of  precedent  that  countries 
supposed  to  have  been  the  parents  and  teachers  of  a 
particular  art  as  well  as  the  fields  of  its  earnest  exercise 
through  long  centuries,  should  not  be  able  to  show 
any  products  of  that  art  corresponding  with  the 
admirable  examples  attributed  to  their  emigrant  ex- 
perts working  under  alien  patronage  in  a  neighbouring 
island.  Such  was  not  the  case  in  the  field  of  picto- 
rial art,  nor  yet  in  that  of  keramics,  nor  yet  in  that  of 
textile  fabrics,  and  the  apparent  inference  with  regard 
to  sculpture  is  that,  though  the  Japanese  obtained  tech- 
nical instruction  from  their  continental  neighbours, 
and  motives  from  the  creed  which  the  latter  were  in- 
strumental in  propagating,  their  own  genius  soon  car- 
ried the  practice  of  the  art  beyond  the  range  of 
Chinese  or  Korean  conception. 

Before  pursuing  the  historical  sequence  of  the 
development  of  the  sculptor's  art  in  Japan,  some 
special  subjects  must  be  briefly  discussed. 

The  chiselling  of  stone  images  was  practised  by 
the  Japanese  from  an  early  period  of  their  art  history, 
but  it  does  not  seem  possible  to  determine  with  even 
approximate  accuracy  the  date  when  this  class  of  work 
had  its  origin.  Nor  is  there  much  to  encourage 
research.  Japanese  sculptures  in  stone  have  always 

90 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

been  of  very  mediocre  quality,  not  for  an  instant 
supporting  comparison  with  the  studies  in  marble 
bequeathed  to  the  world  by  the  ancient  Greeks. 
Should  time  have  in  store  for  Japan  vicissitudes  such 
as  overtook  the  prehistoric  world  of  the  West,  it  is 
not  difficult  to  imagine  that  some  race  of  explorers, 
thirty  or  forty  centuries  hence,  discovering  the  stu- 
pendous masonry  and  the  huge  granite  blocks  of  the 
Tokyo  and  Osaka  castles,  may  draw  an  inference 
similar  to  that  suggested  by  the  ruins  of  Tirynth  and 
its  sister  cities  of  Argolis,  and  may  conclude  that 
Japan  was  once  inhabited  by  a  race  of  giants.  But 
they  certainly  will  not  find  anything  to  suggest  that 
the  men  who  applied  granite  to  such  colossal  uses 
understood  the  value  of  the  imperishable  material 
suggested  by  Nature  herself  as  a  medium  for  trans- 
mitting artistic  conceptions  to  posterity.  The  most 
reasonable  explanation  of  the  inferiority  shown  by  the 
Japanese  in  this  respect  is  that  the  quality  of  the  stone 
generally  available  in  their  country  defied  any  fine 
exercise  of  glyptic  skill.  Japan  is  not  without  stores 
of  good  marble,  which  are  now  beginning  to  be  suc- 
cessfully utilised  for  purposes  of  sculpture.  But  in 
remote  ages  their  existence  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  suspected,  and  the  artist,  being  supplied  only 
with  granite  and  coarse  sandstone,  was  not  encouraged 
to  attempt  work  inconsistent  with  the  quality  of  the 
material.  Some  critics  maintain,  indeed,  that  the 
technical  difficulties  attending  sculpture  in  stone 
proved  insuperable  to  the  Japanese.  But  such  a 
theory  can  scarcely  be  reconciled  with  the  singular 
ability  they  showed  in  bringing  still  more  refractory 
substances  within  artistic  control.  Further,  the  evi- 
dence furnished  by  their  ancient  tombs  shows  that,  in 

91 


JAPAN 

times  as  remote  as  the  beginning  of  the  Christian 
era,  they  knew  how  to  hew  stones  and  join  them 
into  the  forms  of  sarcophagi,  so  perfect  in  shape  that 
some  of  them,  when  exhumed  in  later  epochs,  were 
regarded  as  palanquins  in  which  demigods  had 
ridden,  or  as  boats  in  which  they  had  sailed  the  seas 
during  the  age  of  Japan's  government  by  divine 
beings.  Still  more  conclusive  proof  of  ability  to 
fashion  stone  into  given  shapes  is  afforded  by  objects 
for  personal  adornment  found  in  these  tombs,  —  carved 
jewels  (maga-tama}  of  agate  or  jadeite;  tubular  jewels 
{kuda-tama)  of  light  green  stone;  hexagonal  jewels 
(  kiriko-dama ),  and  triple-ring  jewels  ( mitsuwa-dama ) 
of  quartz ;  and  already  in  the  fourth  century  of  the 
Christian  era,  one  of  the  sections  of  artificers  em- 
ployed by  the  Government  had  the  name  of  Tama- 
tsukuri-bey  or  sculptors  of  ornamental  minerals.  In 
the  face  of  these  facts  it  is  impossible  to  doubt  that 
the  cutting,  shaping,  and  polishing  of  stone  fell  well 
within  the  competence  of  Japanese  artisans  in  very 
early  times,  and  that  had  they  recognised  it  as  a 
material  suitable  for  sculpturing  objects  of  high  art, 
technical  difficulties  would  not  have  deterred  them. 

In  China  and  Korea  the  custom  of  erecting  huge 
memorial  tablets  of  marble  or  granite  existed  in 
ancient  ages.  But  the  Japanese  were  slow  to  adopt 
it,  and  never  reconciled  themselves  to  the  use  of  orna- 
mental sculpture  on  such  objects.  History  contains 
a  poem  attributed  to  that  personage  of  somewhat 
apocryphal  achievements,  the  Empress  Jingo  (201- 
269  A.  D.  ),  in  which  words  occur  indicating  apparently 
that  a  stone  monument  was  set  up  to  the  deity  Sukuna. 
But  the  first  unequivocal  record  of  stone  sculpture  is 
found  in  the  annals  of  the  Emperor  Keitei's  reign 

92 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

(507-531  A.  D.),  when  there  flourished  in  Chikushi 
a  local  magnate  remarkable  for  his  extravagant  style 
of  life  and  ultimately  for  rebelling  against  the  Imperial 
authority.  It  is  stated  that  he  adopted  the  Chinese 
custom  of  causing  a  grand  tomb  to  be  erected  for 
himself,  and  that  he  collected  a  number  of  skilled 
workers  in  stone  for  the  purpose.  Encircling  and 
guarding  the  tomb  were  placed  sixty  stone  effigies  of 
warriors  each  seven  feet  high  and  each  with  a  stone 
shield  planted  beside  him.  In  a  recess  on  the  south 
of  the  tomb  a  figure  was  set  up  representing  a  judge, 
before  whom  a  naked  culprit  kneeled  to  receive 
sentence  for  stealing  four  wild-boars,  which  also  were 
sculptured  in  the  same  material,  and  close  at  hand 
stood  three  horses  with  a  background  of  two  stone 
edifices.  Some  traces  of  this  elaborate  monument 
remain,  but  even  in  their  complete  absence  the  record 
is  sufficiently  explicit  to  show  that  the  chiselling  of 
natural  objects  in  stone  was  understood  at  that  remote 
time,  though  the  manner  of  applying  the  art  was  alien, 
and  its  products  were  probably  very  crude.  Moreover, 
after  the  abolition  of  the  barbarous  customs  of  bury- 
ing alive  the  chief  vassals  of  a  prince  or  noble  at  the 
time  of  his  interment,  —  a  reform  effected  at  about 
the  commencement  of  the  Christian  era,  —  images 
of  stone  were  sometimes  used  as  substitutes  for  these 
living  sacrifices,  though  in  ordinary  cases  rudely 
shaped  effigies  of  sun-dried  clay  were  deemed  suffi- 
cient. Excavations  recently  made  near  the  tumulus 
of  the  Emperor  Kimmei  (540-571  A.  D.)  brought  to 
light  a  number  of  stone  images  of  men  and  animals, 
and  similar  objects  have  been  found  buried  at  other 
places  under  circumstances  which  suggest  great  antiq- 
uity. But  not  one  of  the  specimens  hitherto  found 

93 


JAPAN 

indicates  that  the  sculptor  aimed  at  beauty  of  form  or 
accuracy  of  proportion,  and  it  need  scarcely  be  added 
that  none  of  them  had  any  direct  connection  with 
religious  rites,  for  the  deities  of  the  Shinto  cult,  which 
alone  prevailed  in  Japan  in  those  times,  were  never 
represented  in  effigy.  In  comparatively  modern  eras, 
when  it  became  the  habit  to  erect  over  the  resting- 
places  of  the  dead  handsome  bronze  monuments  and 
to  surround  them  with  stone  fences,  the  chisels  of 
great  glyptic  artists  were  sometimes  employed  to  cut 
upon  the  pedestals  of  these  monuments,  or  on  the 
panels  of  gates  giving  access  to  their  enclosures,  scenes 
of  religious  import,  such  as  the  entry  of  Buddha  into 
Nirvana  or  episodes  from  the  careers  of  the  Arhats. 
But  these  were  quite  exceptional  applications  of 
glyptic  art. 

The  use  of  stone  for  sculpturing  Buddhist  idols 
commenced  in  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Bidatsu 
when  (585  A. D.)  two  envoys  whom  he  had  sent  to 
Korea  brought  back  a  stone  effigy  of  the  Buddhist 
deity,  Miroku.  From  that  time,  whenever  images 
had  to  be  erected  in  the  open  air,  stone  seems  to 
have  suggested  itself  as  a  suitable  material,  and  the 
traveller  in  Japan  often  sees,  set  up  by  the  roadside 
or  enshrined  at  the  elbow  of  a  mountain  track,  little 
stone  images  of  Jizo  (K'shitigarbha),  the  protecting 
deity  of  wayfarers,  the  gentle  god  who  encourages 
unhappy  children  in  purgatory  to  pile  up  pebbles  un- 
til the  heap  shall  be  high  enough  to  raise  them  to 
the  plains  of  the  blessed.  Scarcely  less  frequent  are 
effigies  of  foxes  seated  on  pedestals  before  the  rustic 
shrine  of  Inari,  the  god  of  food,  where  the  peasant 
prays  for  rich  harvests.  But  none  of  these  objects 
deserves  attention  as  a  specimen  of  sculpture.  They 

94 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

are  mere  suggestions.  Eloquence  of  form  did  not 
enter  into  the  thought  of  the  humble  mason  that 
hewed  them,  nor,  indeed,  did  their  purpose  or  their 
surroundings  usually  encourage  any  fine  effort  of 
art. 

The  perception  of  the  Japanese  is  nothing  if  not 
congruous.  He  has  an  instinctive  sense  of  the  fitness 
of  things  within  his  own  range  of  experience,  and  it 
would  seem  to  him  a  solecism  to  erect  a  delicately 
chiselled,  elaborately  ornamented  image  among  the 
mosses  and  shadows  of  a  forest  or  the  dust  and  con- 
tamination of  a  roadside.  When,  however,  a  stone 
carving  was  destined  to  form  part  of  the  entourage 
of  an  important  temple  or  mausoleum,  greater  care 
was  bestowed  on  its  modelling.  It  then  usually  took 
the  form  of  the  Kara-shishi  (Chinese  lion,  i.  e.  Dog 
of  Fo),  to  which  the  Japanese  sculptor  often  succeeds 
in  imparting  an  aspect  of  much  vigour  and  vitality. 

The  Emperor  Gotoba,  in  the  year  1187,  had  a 
pair  of  stone  shishl  chiselled  to  stand  inside  the  inner 
gate  of  the  temple  Todai-ji  at  Nara,  and  effigies  of 
two  Bodhisattvas  and  the  four  Heavenly  Kings,  also 
in  stone,  to  stand  within  the  building.  It  is  recorded 
that  he  entrusted  the  execution  of  this  work  to  a 
Chinese  sculptor,  Lo  Ku,  who  was  assisted  by  three 
Japanese.  Lo  pointed  out  that  the  stone  procurable 
in  Japan  was  not  fitted  for  the  purpose  of  fine  sculp- 
ture, and  the  Emperor  caused  stone  to  be  imported 
from  China  at  a  cost  of  about  ^£3,000. 

There  are  preserved  in  a  cave  at  the  back  of  the 
temple  Nippon-ji,  in  Awa  province,  fifty-three  stone 
effigies  of  Buddhas,  said  to  have  been  sculptured  in  the 
days  of  the  Emperors  Shomu  (724—748  A.D.)  and  Hei- 
zei  (806-809  A.  D.),  and  these  were  supplemented,  in 

95 


JAPAN 

T775»  ky  a  thousand    figures,   namely,  five  hundred 
Buddhas  and  five  hundred   Arhats,  the  whole   consti- 
tuting the  most  numerous  assemblage  of  stone  images 
in  Japan.      Many  other  ishi-botoke,  as  a  stone  Buddha 
is  called,  may  be  seen  here  and  there  throughout  the 
country,  but  the  general  verdict  with  regard  to  them 
all  is  that  they  cannot  be  described  as  objects  of  art. 
The  experience  of  the  Emperor  Gotoba  shows  that 
want  of  good  stone  was  fatal  to  the  development  of 
sculpture  in  that  material,  and  in  any  case  it  is  not 
improbable  that  the  Japanese  glyptic  artist  would  al- 
ways have  preferred  metal  and  wood,  as  better  adapted 
to  the  wooden  temples  he  was  invited  to  people  with 
images.      Indeed  this  latter   consideration    may  have 
been  paramount.      It  is  easy  to  conceive  that  had  the 
Parthenon  been  constructed  with  pine  or  the  temples 
on  the  Acropolis  of  Selinus  with  oak,  posterity  would 
not  have  inherited  marble  pediments  or  tufa  metopes. 
Mirrors  are  among   the    concrete  evidences  from 
which  knowledge  is  derived  of  the  ability   of  early 
Japanese  workers  in  metal.      These  objects  are  usually 
simple    castings    without    any    trace    of   the    chisel. 
They   possess   much   value   in  the  eyes   of  Japanese 
dilettanti,    who   regard    them   as   among   the    oldest 
examples    of  their    country's    artistic    metal    work. 
From  the  description   already  given   of  the  curious 
bell-shaped     iron    castings    found    under     conditions 
which  refer  them  to  a  period  more  remote  than  the 
beginning  of  the  Christian  era,  the  reader  will  have 
derived  the  impression  that  grace  of  form  and  a  meas- 
ure    of   decorative    effect     were    contemplated     and 
achieved    by   Japanese    metal-founders   even   at    that 
remote  time.     That  impression  is  confirmed  by   the 
mirrors    preserved  in  many   Japanese  collections  of 

96 


AYHd   KOOM   JIHT   1O   3UTAT3 


BRONZE  STATUE  OF  THE   MOON  DEVA  (GEKKO). 

In  the  Templa  Yakushl-ji  at  Nara.    Sculptor  unknown.    End  of  seventh  century. 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

antiquities ;  they  indicate  a  decorative  sense  by  no 
means  rudimentary  on  the  part  of  their  makers 
and  users.  Many  of  the  mirrors  thus  preserved 
are  unquestionably  Chinese,  and  others  are  frank 
copies  of  Chinese  models,  while  all  are  so  much  alike 
that  doubts  have  been  raised  as  to  the  possibility  of 
distinguishing  their  provenance,  or  of  confidently 
attributing  any  of  them  to  Japanese  workers.  That 
objection  might  be  serious  had  there  not  been  found 
in  ancient  Japanese  tombs  mirrors  having  attached  to 
their  circumference  bells  of  the  bivalve,  tongueless 
kind  peculiar  to  Japan,  whereas  nothing  similar  has 
ever  been  found  in  China  or  Korea.  It  may  there- 
fore be  assumed  that  ability  to  manufacture  such 
objects  existed  at  an  early  date  in  Japan,  though  the 
source  of  inspiration  was  doubtless  Chinese.  Briefly 
described,  the  mirror  was  a  bronze  disc,  having  one 
side  polished  or  quick-silvered  as  a  reflector  and  the 
other  ornamented  with  designs  in  relief.1  The 
metal  varied  considerably  in  composition.  Its  prin- 
cipal ingredients  were  copper  and  tin,  the  former 
constituting  from  seventy-five  to  ninety-five  per  cent, 
the  latter  from  twenty-three  to  one-half  per  cent. 
Lead  was  frequently  present,  with  occasional  mixture 
of  silver  and  traces  of  gold. 

From  the  remarkable  cleanness  of  casting  shown 
by  some  of  these  mirrors,  it  has  been  inferred  that 
the  cire-perdue  process  was  employed  by  their  makers. 
But  that  is  exceedingly  doubtful.  As  to  the  reflecting 
surface,  though  probably  obtained  at  first  by  polishing 
alone,  it  soon  came  to  be  coated  with  an  amalgam  of 
tin  and  quicksilver,  and  as  Japan  had  no  quicksilver 
of  her  own,  she  must  have  had  recourse  to  China,  or 

1  See  Appendix,  note  12. 

VOL.  VH. —  7  n 


JAPAN 

to  Korea,  China's  pupil.  The  same  information  is 
furnished  by  the  gilding  and  silvering  found  on  cop- 
per plates  which  formed  decorative  adjuncts  of  sword- 
hilts  and  horse-trappings  from  the  beginning  of  the 
iron  age  (200  B.  c.).  Hence  it  may  be  affirmed  on 
the  evidence  furnished  by  relics  of  art  industry  that, 
in  the  first  or  second  century  before  the  Christian  era, 
Japan  was  in  contact  with  Chinese  or  Korean  civili- 
sation, and  that  she  learned  from  one  of  her  continen- 
tal neighbours  the  process  of  obtaining  reflective 
surfaces  by  means  of  mercury.1 

The  Japanese  mirror  attracted  much  attention 
at  one  time  among  foreigners,  owing  to  a  curi- 
ous property  it  sometimes  possessed,  namely,  that 
the  pattern  on  the  back  was  reflected  by  the 
polished  surface  in  front.  The  effect  was  best 
seen  by  double  reflection,  —  that  is  to  say,  when 
light  cast  on  the  surface  of  the  mirror  was  reflected  on 
some  other  flat  surface.  So  strange  did  this  feature 
seem  that  it  received  the  epithet  "  magical,"  and  for 
many  years  it  was  considered  the  "  correct  thing " 
that  every  collector  should  include  a  Japanese  "  magic 
mirror  "  among  his  treasures.  Of  course  the  Japan- 
ese themselves  knew  that  their  mirror  possessed  this 
property,  but  they  did  not  understand  it  and  did  not 
indulge  in  many  conjectures  about  a  phenomenon 
which  seemed  inexplicable.  So  soon,  however,  as  the 
scientist  of  the  West  approached  the  problem,  he  dis- 
covered a  simple  solution.  It  is  a  structural  accident. 
When  a  mirror,  laid  face  upwards,  is  subjected  to 
pressure  by  the  hand  of  the  artisan  polishing  its  sur- 
face, it  necessarily  rests  on  the  salient  points  of  the 
arabesque  or  other  design  that  decorates  the  reverse, 

1  See  Appendix,  note  13. 

98 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

and  the  portions  of  the  face  lying  in  the  interstices  of 
these  points  become  more  or  less  depressed,  so  that 
light  falling  on  the  surface  is  broken  up  and  unevenly 
reflected.  Dr.  Anderson  has  suggested  that  the 
"  magical  "  feature  has  another  explanation  ;  namely, 
that  the  contraction  of  the  fused  metal  when  cooling 
in  the  mould  was  influenced  by  the  comparative 
thickness  or  thinness  due  to  the  convexities  and  con- 
cavities of  the  pattern.  That  is  probable  enough, 
but  it  has  been  demonstrated  by  experiment  that  the 
property  in  question  can  be  produced  at  will,  by  a 
process  founded  on  the  former  theory.  The  Japan- 
ese, whether  manufacturers  or  users  of  these  mirrors, 
never  regarded  their  freaks  of  reflection  as  an  admira- 
ble quality,  and  Western  virtuosi  might  wisely  adopt 
the  same  attitude  towards  the  phenomenon. 

Japan's  temple  bells  deserve  notice  for  many  rea- 
sons, —  not  the  bell-like  objects  of  thin  cast  iron 
found  buried  in  the  ground  in  certain  provinces, 
objects  whose  purpose  has  never  been  clearly  as- 
certained, but  the  bronze  bells  actually  used  as  such 
from  the  eighth  century  onward.  The  metallic 
voices  that  summon  worshippers  in  the  West  can 
seldom  be  counted  sounds  of  gentleness  and  harmony. 
Even  cathedral  carillons  of  Europe  and  America 
have  too  often  a  clash  and  a  clang  little  suggestive  of 
"  the  peace  that  passeth  understanding."  But  the 
tsuri-gane  (suspended  bell)  of  Japan  gives  forth  a  voice 
of  the  most  exquisite  sweetness  and  harmony  —  a 
voice  that  enhances  the  lovely  landscapes  and  seascapes, 
across  which  the  sweet  solemn  notes  come  floating 
on  autumn  evenings  and  in  the  stillness  of  summer's 
noonday  hazes.  The  song  of  these  bells  can  never 
be  forgotten  by  those  that  have  once  heard  it.  Their 

99 


JAPAN 

notes  seem  to  have  been  born  amid  the  eternal  restful- 
ness  of  the  Buddhist  paradise,  and  to  have  gathered, 
on  their  way  to  human  ears,  echoes  of  the  sadness 
that  prepares  the  soul  for  Nirvana.  Some  of  them 
are  giants  among  bells.  The  Sanjusangen-do  in 
Kyoto,  where  stand  the  33,333  images  of  the  Goddess 
of  Mercy,  has  a  bell  fourteen  feet  high,  nine  feet  in 
diameter,  ten  and  three-fourths  inches  thick,  and 
weighing  fifty-six  tons.  It  was  cast  in  the  beginning 
of  the  seventeenth  century.  At  the  temple  Chion-in, 
in  the  same  city,  there  is  a  bell  ten  feet  ten  inches 
high,  nine  feet  in  diameter,  nine  and  one-half  inches 
thick,  and  weighing  forty-three  tons.  It  was  cast  in 
the  year  1633.  Still  older  than  either  of  these  — the 
oldest  bell  in  Japan  indeed  —  is  that  of  Todai-ji  at 
Nara.  Cast  in  732  A.  D.,  it  is  twelve  feet  nine  inches 
high,  eight  feet  ten  inches  in  diameter,  ten  inches 
thick,  and  its  weight  is  forty-nine  tons.  At  innu- 
merable places  throughout  the  country,  bells  of 
smaller  but  still  noble  proportions  toll  the  passing 
hours  or  summon  the  people  to  special  services.  But 
they  are  never  heard  at  funerals.  The  glory  and 
credit  of  having  cast  these  wonderful  bells  belong 
exclusively  to  the  Japanese,  for  though  they  took  the 
shape  originally  from  China,  they  soon  surpassed  her 
in  the  size  and  quality  of  their  castings.  Peking 
boasts  a  bell  cast  in  1406,  by  order  of  the  great  Ming 
Emperor  Yung-lo.  It  was  long  supposed  to  be  the 
biggest  bell  in  the  world  by  persons  ignorant  of 
the  Tsar  Kolokol  and  its  smaller  sister  at  Moscow. 
The  Peking  bell  weighs  fifty-three  tons,  and  is  there- 
fore four  tons  heavier  than  the  Nara  bell,  but  the 
latter  was  cast  six  hundred  and  seventy-four  years 
earlier  than  the  former.  The  second  biggest  bell  of 

100 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

China  —  that  of  Nanking  —  weighs  only  twenty-two 
tons,  a  size  reached  and  surpassed  by  numerous  bells 
in  Japan.  Dimensions  apart,  however,  there  is  abso- 
lutely no  comparison  in  the  matter  of  beauty  and 
grandeur  of  tone  between  the  bells  of  China,  the 
teacher,  and  those  of  Japan,  the  pupil.  In  what 
kind  of  esteem  the  notes  of  a  really  fine  bell  are  held 
by  the  Japanese  may  be  gathered  from  the  fact  that 
among  the  "  Eight  Beauties  "  (Hak-kei\  of  the  cele- 
brated Lake  Biwa,  the  sound  of  the  evening  bell  of 
Mii-dera  stands  fourth.  Some  have  sought  the  secret 
of  the  Japanese  bell's  sweetness  in  the  method  of 
ringing  ;  that  is  to  say,  not  with  a  clapper,  —  metal 
clashing  against  metal,  —  but  with  a  beam  of  wood 
swung  horizontally  so  as  to  strike  a  boss  on  the  outer 
surface  of  the  bell.  That  may  contribute  to  the 
result,  but  cannot,  of  course,  be  the  reason  of  it.  An 
eminent  writer,  discussing  the  bells  of  Europe,  says 
that  as  celebrated  violins  —  an  Amati  or  a  Stradivarius 
—  are  the  outcome  of  innumerable  experiments,  ex- 
tending over  centuries,  so  the  "  perfect "  bells  of 
Holland,  cast  by  the  masters  of  the  sixteenth  and 
seventeenth  centuries,  "  disengaged  themselves  after 
ages  of  empirical  trials  as  the  true  models,  and 
supplied  the  finished  type  for  all  succeeding  bell- 
workers."  The  rules  thus  evolved  and  still  implicitly 
obeyed  were  that  the  metal  should  be  a  mixture  of 
copper  and  tin  in  the  proportion  of  4  to  i,  that  the 
thickness  of  the  bell's  edge  should  be  one-fifteenth  of 
its  diameter,  and  that  its  height  should  be  twelve 
times  its  thickness.  Every  one  of  these  rules  was 
ruthlessly  violated  by  the  founders  of  Japanese  bells. 
As  to  the  composition  of  the  bell  metal,  there  does 
not  seem  to  have  been  any  accurate  formula.  The 

101 


JAPAN 

great  Todai-ji  bell  is  said  to  have  been  made  of  cop- 
per and  tin  in  the  proportion  of  36  to  i,  but  the 
record  is  probably  an  approximation  only.  It  is  at 
all  events  certain  that  no  care  was  taken  to  maintain 
any  hard-and-fast  ratio  of  mixture  in  later  times. 
The  casting  of  a  temple  bell  constituted  a  species  of 
festival.  People  thronged  from  all  parts  of  the  parish, 
carrying  offerings,  mirrors,  and  other  metal  orna- 
ments, which  were  thrown  into  the  melting-pots 
without  any  question  as  to  the  nature  of  the  metal 
composing  them.  Not  infrequently  copper  coins 
supplied  the  chief,  if  not  the  only,  material.  Thus, 
for  a  bell  cast  at  Kamakura  in  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury, 330,000  coins  were  used.  Mr.  Gowland's 
analysis  of  the  old  copper  coins  of  Japan  shows  their 
composition  to  have  been,  copper,  77.30;  tin,  4.32; 
lead,  15.33;  arsenic,  1.14;  antimony,  0.31;  iron, 
i.oi  ;  silver,  0.06  ;  sulphur,  0.52,  and  gold  a  trace,  — 
a  compound  very  unlike  the  ideal  bell-metal  of  the 
European  experts.  With  regard  to  dimensions,  three 
of  the  big  bells  of  Japan  give  the  following  figures  :  — 

Todai-ji  bell,  —  thickness,  one-tenth  of  diameter  ; 
height,  15^  times  the  thickness. 

Kyoto  Dai-Butsu  bell,  —  thickness,  one-tenth  of 
diameter;  height,  15^  times  the  thickness. 

Chion-in  bell,  —  thickness,  one-eleventh  of  diam- 
eter ;  height,  13^  times  the  thickness. 

The  first  two  of  these  bells  seem  to  suggest  a 
definite  rule  of  ratios,  but  the  third  upsets  the  idea 
altogether,  and  all  depart  widely  from  the  principles 
of  the  Dutch  experts.  In  section  Japanese  bells 
show  a  shape  different  from  that  of  European  bells. 
The  former  have  the  rim  thickened  internally,  so  that 
the  mouth  is  slightly  restricted,  and  to  that  construction 

IO2 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

has  been  attributed  the  gentle  rising  and  falling  tone 
of  their  boom.  It  would  be  curious  if  experiments 
should  prove  that  this  simple  device  sufficed  to  secure 
results  which  European  bell-founders  were  at  such 
pains  to  achieve  by  accurate  composition  of  metal 
and  strict  ratios  of  dimensions.  That  the  Japanese 
could  not  only  produce  a  monster  bell  of  magnificent 
tone,  but  were  also  able  to  manufacture  bells  having 
their  consonants  in  musical  sequence,  is  proved  by 
sixteen  bells  preserved  at  Nikko.  Rein  writes  of 
these  bells  that,  although  exactly  alike  externally  in 
form  and  size,  they  yield  distinctly  and  with  the 
finest  effect  all  the  notes  of  two  octaves.  It  is  quite 
conceivable,  however,  that  these  bells  were  cast  in 
accordance  with  rules  obtained  from  the  Dutch  traders 
at  Deshima.  No  similar  bells  are  found  elsewhere  in 
Japan. 

The  form  adopted  for  the  hanging  bells  of  Japan 
has  always  been,  approximately,  that  known  as  "  mitre- 
shaped  "  in  mediaeval  Europe.  Elaborate  ornamenta- 
tion of  the  surface  was  not  resorted  to  in  the  case 
of  large  bells.  They  sometimes  carry  lines  of  ideo- 
graphs cast  in  low  relief,  —  verses  from  the  sutras, 
Chinese  apothegms,  or  more  or  less  detailed  lists  of 
the  names  of  the  donors  of  the  bell  and  the  date  of 
casting,  —  and  in  rare  cases  they  have  medallions 
of  dragons  or  phoenixes.  Small  bells,  however,  are 
often  elaborately  decorated  with  kylin,  shishi  (dogs 
of  Fo),  figures  of  angels  (ten-jin),  and  long  inscrip- 
tions in  prose  or  poetry. 

Those  that  have  any  knowledge  of  the  difficulties 
connected  with  bell  hanging  in  Europe  and  America, 
of  the  trouble  of  oscillating  towers  and  defective 
leverage,  will  be  curious  to  hear  how  the  Japanese 

103 


JAPAN 

hang  the  monster  bells  spoken  of  above.  It  is  a  very 
simple  process.  The  bell  is  suspended  from  a  low 
framework  of  powerful  timbers,  the  uprights  leaning 
slightly  towards  cross-beams  connecting  their  upper 
ends.  Slung  by  ropes  or  chains  in  an  independent 
framework  is  a  massive  beam  which  oscillates  horizon- 
tally, and  is  adjusted  so  as  to  strike  full  and  square  on 
the  boss  of  the  bell.  These  unpretentious  belfries 
make  no  claim  to  architectural  beauty  or  structural 
grandeur.  The  bell  is  everything.  It  hangs  fully 
en  Evidence,  nothing  being  suffered  to  dwarf  its  pro- 
portions or  interfere  with  its  notes. 

The  "  gong,"  which  alike  in  name  and  conception 
is  of  purely  Chinese  origin,  was  manufactured  from  a 
very  early  date  in  Japan.  Chinese  metallurgists  under- 
stood, and  taught  the  Japanese  how  to  temper  and 
anneal  bronze,  which,  when  suddenly  cooled  from  a 
cherry-red  heat,  becomes  sufficiently  soft  for  easy 
manipulation,  and  can  afterwards  be  hardened  by 
reheating  and  slow  cooling.  The  commonest  kind 
of  gong  is  the  well-known  discoid,  with  a  rounded 
central  boss  ;  but  another  form,  called  the  "  alligator's 
mouth "  (wani-guchi],  is  familiar  to  every  temple- 
goer.  It  consists  of  two  discoids,  strung  together  so 
that  a  wide  aperture  separates  them.  A  third  kind 
of  gong  is  hemispheroidal, —  a  bowl  of  beaten  metal, 
which,  instead  of  being  suspended  like  the  wani-guchi 
or  the  ordinary  gong  (dora),  is  insulated  by  being 
placed  on  a  cushion.  This  variety  goes  by  the  name 
of  kin  or  rlny  the  former  appellation  being  given  to 
the  larger  sizes.  There  is  finally  the  kei9  a  ^-shaped 
plate  of  bronze,  suspended  from  the  apex.  All  these, 
with  one  exception,  are  beaten  with  a  short  stick 
having  a  leather-covered  pad  at  one  end.  The  ex- 

104 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

ception  is  the  "  alligator's  mouth."  It  hangs  in  the 
vestibule  of  temples  and  shrines,  and  is  sounded  by 
means  of  a  thick  rope  which  hangs  in  contact  with 
its  surface,  and  is  swung  against  it  by  worshippers  to 
attract  the  presiding  deity's  attention.  It  cannot  be 
said  that  the  Japanese  developed  any  remarkable  skill 
in  the  manufacture  of  these  objects.  The  kin  often 
emits  a  prolonged  musical  note,  tender  and  soft,  and 
Japanese  connoisseurs  of  sound  make  enthusiastic 
distinctions  between  one  kei  and  another  as  to  timbre 
and  purity  of  voice ;  but  it  does  not  appear  that  the 
manufacture  of  these  objects  ever  made  any  special 
claim  on  the  attention  of  experts.  In  the  matter  of 
gongs  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  Korea  stands  far  in 
advance  of  Japan.  Neither  country,  however,  pos- 
sesses a  large  supply  of  fine  gongs.  Long  and  patient 
search  for  such  treasures  may  often  prove  fruitless. 
But  if  the  searcher  is  so  happy  as  to  find  a  Korean 
gong  of  the  best  type,  —  and  he  is  just  as  likely  to 
find  it  in  Japan  as  in  Korea,  —  he  has  an  instrument 
of  grand  sounding  capacities,  which  sends  forth  wave 
after  wave  of  complex  vibrations,  mellow,  sonorous, 
and  sweet. 


105 


Chapter  III 

JAPANESE   APPLIED   ART   (Continued) 

Second  Period —  From  the  Ninth  to  the  Middle  of  the  Sixteenth  Century 

WITH  the  transfer  of  the  capital  from  Nara 
to  Kyoto,  at  the  close  of  the  eighth 
century,  began  the  Heian  epoch,  marked 
at  the  outset  by  the  founding  of  large 
monasteries,  especially  those  of  Hiyei  and  Koya,  and 
by  the  spread  of  esoteric  Buddhism.  This  was  the 
time  when  the  Tang  dynasty  of  China,  ruling  an 
empire  that  touched  the  boundaries  of  Persia  and 
included  Korea,  Mongolia,  and  Tartary,  developed  a 
civilisation  such  as  Asia  had  never  previously  wit- 
nessed in  historical  eras,  and  furnished  models  of 
literature,  art,  and  administration  which  the  eclectic 
genius  of  Japan  was  not  slow  to  adopt.  Yet  the 
early  part  of  the  epoch  did  not  produce  any  remark- 
able sculptures.  The  tendency  of  the  artist  was  to 
devote  attention  solely  to  the  ensemble  of  his  statues, 
and  to  sacrifice  accuracy  of  form  on  the  altar  of 
idealism.  Japanese  connoisseurs  ascribe  this  tendency  to 
the  influence  of  esoteric  Buddhism.  Sculpture,  they 
say,  falling  entirely  into  the  hands  of  the  priests  or 
passing  under  their  control,  aimed  uniquely  at  giving 
outward  expression  to  the  moral  attributes  associated 
with  each  divinity,  and  paid  little  attention  to  ana- 
tomical accuracy  or  technical  excellence.  Thus  the 

1 06 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

ninth  century  and  a  great  part  of  the  tenth  are  dis- 
tinguished as  a  period  of  amateur  work,  when  reli- 
gious zealots,  insufficiently  instructed  in  the  art  of 
sculpture,  modelled  statues  with  majestic  and  beau- 
tiful faces,  but  neglected  truth  of  proportion  and 
decorative  accessories.  Emergence  from  that  imper- 
fect conception  of  artistic  purpose  was  due  to  Kosho, 
who  worked  at  the  close  of  the  tenth  century,  and 
above  all  to  his  son  Jocho,  whose  genius  made  the 
beginning  of  the  eleventh  century  one  of  the  most 
notable  epochs  of  Japanese  sculpture.  There  is  a  curi- 
ous resemblance  at  this  point  between  the  history  of 
pictorial  art  and  that  of  sculpture  in  Japan.  In  the 
former,  Kawanari,  the  immediate  predecessor  of  Kana- 
oka,  figures  as  a  great  painter,  the  first  really  great 
painter  of  his  country,  and  the  originator  of  an  art  im- 
pulse which  culminated,  some  sixty  years  later,  in  the 
celebrated  Kanaoka.  But  none  of  Kawanari's  typical 
pictures  survive,  and  Kanaoka's  skill  also  is  known 
by  tradition  only.  So  in  sculpture  the  annals  speak 
of  Kosho  as  the  leader  of  a  renaissance  carried  to  a 
high  altitude  immediately  afterward  by  Jocho.  But 
there  are  no  specimens  of  Kosho's  work,  and  the 
greatest  of  Joch5's  perished  almost  immediately  after 
their  completion.  What  these  men  achieved  for  art 
was  to  add  virility  to  the  idealism  of  their  immediate 
predecessors,  and  to  insist  upon  accuracy  of  propor- 
tion, skill  in  the  use  of  the  chisel  and  the  attainment 
of  decorative  effect.  Living  in  a  time  of  excessive 
refinement  and  voluptuousness,  their  style  necessarily 
reflected  something  of  this  mood.  Thus  the  bodies 
of  their  figures  are  full,  and  the  contours  rounded  ; 
the  faces  are  circular  rather  than  oval,  the  eyebrows 
are  finely  pencilled,  and  the  folds  of  the  drapery  soft 

107 


JAPAN 

and  flowing.  It  remained  for  the  sculptors  of  a  later 
era  to  rescue  the  art  from  these  traces  of  effeminacy 
and  carry  it  to  its  point  of  culmination.  To  Jocho 
and  his  school,  however,  belongs  the  credit  of  having 
clearly  indicated  the  route  along  which  their  coun- 
try's artists  were  to  travel  to  greatness.  Of  the  kind 
of  work  that  Jochb  was  privileged  to  execute  an  idea 
is  furnished  by  annals  describing  the  temple  Hojo-ji, 
built  by  the  celebrated  Fujiwara  Regent  Michinaga. 
Upon  the  statues  for  that  edifice,  unfortunately  de- 
stroyed by  fire  thirty-seven  years  after  its  completion, 
Jocho  expended  the  efforts  of  a  lifetime.  The  prin- 
cipal idol,  an  effigy  of  Dainichi  Nyorai  sitting  upon  a 
hundred-petalled  lotus,  measured  thirty-two  feet  in 
height ;  and  grouped  about  it  were  a  Shaka,  twenty 
feet  high,  and  numerous  other  figures  nine  feet  in 
height.  All  these  were  in  wood  covered  with  gild- 
ing. In  each  of  the  five  great  halls  stood  a  Fudo, 
twenty  feet  high,  and  four  statues  of  Taison,  sixteen 
feet  in  height.  In  the  Amida  hall  were  nine  gilded 
statues  of  Mida,  each  sixteen  feet,  and  the  Shaka  hall 
was  peopled  by  a  hundred  effigies  of  the  Buddha. 
There  was,  indeed,  no  lack  of  employment  for  the 
religious  sculptors  of  that  superstitious  era.  The  four 
Emperors  Shirakawa,  Horikawa,  Toba,  and  Shutoku 
(1071  to  1141)  built  six  great  and  many  small 
temples,  and  the  sculptors  Ensei,  Ch5en,  Inkaku, 
Kenyen,  Kojo,  and  Incho  filled  them  with  statues. 
But  it  will  readily  be  conceived  by  any  student  of 
Japanese  history  that  art  could  not  escape  the  influ- 
ences which  carried  society  to  the  extreme  of  sensu- 
ous luxury  in  the  closing  years  of  the  Fujiwara 
epoch.  By  degrees  the  sculptor,  abandoning  the 
virile  style  of  the  Jocho  school,  made  delicacy  and 

108 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

refinement  his  chief  aims,  and  by  excessive  striving 
after  grace,  fell  into  effeminacy  and  pettiness.  To 
his  demons  as  well  as  to  his  divinities  he  gave  a  mien 
soft  as  that  of  an  infant,  delicate  as  that  of  a  woman, 
and  even  his  monsters  looked  benign  and  gentle. 
Following  also  the  example  of  the  Sung  artists  of 
China,  he  sought  extreme  elaboration  of  detail  and 
magnificence  of  decoration,  so  that  some  of  his  effigies 
became  dazzling  coruscations  of  gold  and  gems. 
The  contrast  between  Jocho's  style  and  that  of  the 
artists  at  the  close  of  the  Fujiwara  (or  Heian)  epoch 
is  well  illustrated  by  the  great  sculptor's  statues  of  the 
Four  Deva  Kings,  preserved  in  the  Hokuyendo  at 
Nara,  and  the  Senju  Kwannon  (many-handed  Kwan- 
non)  preserved  in  the  temple  Chomei-ji. 

Kosho,  Jocho,  and  their  descendants  and  chief 
pupils  are  generally  known  as  the  "  Nara  Buss  hi"  or 
"  Buddhist  sculptors  of  Nara,"  though  they  lived  in 
Kyoto,  and  though  most  of  their  best  work  was  exe- 
cuted for  temples  in  Kyoto  or  in  localities  remote 
from  Nara.  They  are  also  spoken  of  as  "Masamune 
no  Busshi"  the  prefix  "  Masamune  "  being  intended 
to  indicate  that  they  exhibited  as  sculptors  talent  not 
inferior  to  that  of  Masamune  as  a  swordsmith.  The 
names  of  the  best-remembered  sculptors  of  the  Heian 
epoch  are :  — 

780  TO  950 

Enso Koun  priest). 

Tari-maro Kobo  Daishi  (priest). 

Takao-maro Dengyo  Daishi  (priest). 

Ko-maro Shisho  Daishi  (priest). 


960  TO   1185 

Eshin  (priest) 960 

Kansei 970 

109 


JAPAN 

Kosho  (987-1011). 

Jocho. 

Kakujo. 


Raijo.  Injo. 


Kojo.  Inkaku.  Incho. 

•£.  i 

Kocho.  Inson. 

N.  B.  —  Jocho  received  the  art  title  of  Hbkyo  (bridge  of  the  law), 
being  the  first  sculptor  to  be  so  honoured.  His  most  illustrious 
descendants  had  the  same  title.  They  worked  in  the  Seventh  Avenue 
(Shichijo)  of  Kyoto,  and  were  consequently  termed  the  "  Seventh 
Avenue  Academy." 

Seicho. 

Chosei  (pupil  of  Seicho). 

Ensei. 

JL 

r^  "~~"\ 

Chuen.  Choen.  Kenyen. 

Choshun. 

N.  B.  —  Chosei  had  the  art  title  of  Hoin.  He  and  his  descendants 
worked  in  the  Third  Avenue  (Sanjo)  of  Kyoto,  and  were  called  the 
"  Third  Avenue  Academy." 

Ganku  (priest).  Myojun  (priest). 

From  the  time  of  the  establishment  of  military 
feudalism  (i  192)  by  Yoritomo  at  Kamakura  until  the 
days  (1580)  of  Hideyoshi,  an  interval  of  nearly  four 
centuries,  may  be  regarded  as  the  Kamakura  epoch 
from  the  point  of  view  of  the  sculptor's  art,  and  may 
also  be  regarded  not  only  as  the  greatest  period  of  the 

no 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

art,  but  also  as  the  final  era  of  vigorous  originality  in 
religious  sculpture.  The  greatest  masters  of  the  time 
are  generally  said  to  have  been  Kwaikei  and  his  pupil 
Unkei,  but  undoubtedly  the  finest  surviving  specimen 
of  sculpture  in  wood  is  from  the  chisel  of  Jokaku,  a 
pupil  of  Unkei,  and  among  all  Japanese  sacred  effi- 
gies in  bronze,  the  noblest  and  most  majestic  is  the 
Dai-Butsu  of  Kamakura,  modelled  and  cast  by  Ono 
Goroyemon  in  the  year  1252.  When  Kwaikei  and 
Unkei  began  to  work,  the  samurai  had  become  the 
nation's  type  of  admirable  manhood,  the  bushido  was 
regarded  as  comprising  all  the  canons  of  chivalrous 
morality,  and  the  doctrines  of  the  Zen  sect  of  Bud- 
dhism had  been  accepted  by  the  educated  classes  as  the 
philosophy  of  irreproachable  life.  These  facts  are 
illustrated  by  the  works  of  the  era.  The  round,  sleek 
shapes  of  the  Jocho  school  are  replaced  by  nervous, 
energetic  forms  instinct  with  strong,  martial  vitality. 
The  sculptor,  knowing  nothing  more  worthy  of  imita- 
tion than  a  stalwart  soldier,  goes  to  human  life  for 
inspiration,  and  models  the  muscles  and  contours  of 
his  statues  with  unprecedented  anatomical  fidelity. 
Every  stroke  of  the  chisel  bites  deep  and  direct.  The 
drapery  is  simple.  The  attitudes  are  carefully  studied. 
The  faces  are  profoundly  expressive.  For  the  first 
time  strict  rules  are  elaborated,  and  are  so  carefully 
followed  in  determining  proportions  that  this  feature 
alone  suffices  to  differentiate  the  school  from  all  its 
predecessors. 

It  is  only  within  recent  times  that  exhaustive  re- 
searches and  intelligent  criticism  have  accomplished  a 
clear  classification  of  many  great  sculptures  which  for 
centuries  stood  comparatively  neglected  at  Nara  and 
elsewhere.  As  a  striking  illustration  of  the  confu- 

i  ii 


JAPAN 

sion  previously  prevailing,  the  case  may  be  quoted  of 
two  magnificent  life-size  statues  in  wood  preserved  at 
the  temple  of  Kofuku-ji.  The  subjects  are  Brama  and 
Indra,  the  Deva  Kings  (Ni-d).  These  deities  are 
usually  placed  in  niches  flanking  the  outer  gate  of 
Buddhist  temples  which  they  are  supposed  to  guard. 
The  sculptor's  constant  aim  is  to  give  prominence  to 
the  fierce  energy,  implacable  resolve,  and  superhuman 
strength  which  are  the  chief  attributes  of  the  demon- 
quelling  guardians,  and  the  success  achieved  in  the 
Kofuku-ji  figures  is  unequivocal.  Time  has  almost 
completely  obliterated  the  pigment  *  that  once  covered 
them,  and  has  produced  other  defacements,  so  that 
the  images  now  present  a  battered  and  mutilated 
appearance.  But  nothing  could  destroy  the  grandeur 
of  their  proportions  or  impair  the  majesty  and  dignity 
of  their  pose.  Their  anatomy  is  perfect,  and  had 
they  emerged  from  the  ruins  of  some  Grecian  city, 
they  would  be  known  and  admired  by  every  Western 
student  of  art.  These  statues  have  hitherto  been 
attributed  to  a  nameless  Korean  immigrant  sculptor 
at  the  beginning  of  the  seventh  century,  and  they  are 
still  so  attributed  by  more  than  one  standard  author. 
If  such  an  identification  were  admitted,  hopeless  con- 
fusion would  be  introduced  into  the  whole  history  of 
Japanese  sculpture.  Work  which  is  essentiallyjapan- 
ese  and  which  unmistakably  proclaims  itself  to  be  of 
the  Unkei  school  in  the  thirteenth  century,  would 
become  that  of  a  Korean  artist  seven  hundred  years 
earlier,  and  it  would  be  necessary  to  admit  that,  by 
some  inexplicable  freak  of  fate,  a  Korean  visiting 
Japan  at  a  time  when  sculpture  in  Korea,  Japan,  and 
China  was  still  in  its  infancy,  produced  a  master- 

1  See  Appendix,  note  14. 

112 


CLAY    FIGURES. 

(See  page  85.) 
Eighth  century.      Preserved  in  the  Temple  of  Horju-JI. 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

piece  unapproached  by  any  Korean  or  Chinese  worker 
in  any  era,  and  presenting  all  the  most  obviously 
characteristic  features  of  the  best  school  of  Japanese 
sculpture  in  the  thirteenth  century.  There  is  no 
occasion  to  do  such  violence  to  reason  and  history. 
The  figures  are  from  the  chisel  of  Jokaku,  a  pupil  of 
Unkei.  Two  other  statues  of  Deva  Kings  may  be 
instructively  examined  side  by  side  with  Jokaku's 
masterpiece.  They  are  colossal  images  twenty-six 
and  one-half  feet  high,  which  stand  beside  the  gate 
of  Todai-ji.  Awe-inspiring  and  stupendous,  they 
have  been  taken  by  nearly  all  subsequent  sculptors  as 
a  classical  type  of  the  Two  Guardians,  and  they  well 
deserve  that  distinction.  But  the  exaggerations  which 
the  artists  (Unkei  and  Kwaikei)  have  resorted  to  in 
order  to  emphasise  special  attributes  reduce  the 
figures  to  a  lower  plane  of  achievement  than  the 
supreme  eminence  on  which  Jokaku's  Devas  stand. 
The  "  Watch  Dogs "  of  Tamuke-yama  shrine  are 
another  example  of  Tokei's  bold  imagination  and 
powerful  chisel.  His  conception  of  these  super- 
human animals  is  at  once  original  and  grand.  Kokei, 
a  contemporary  of  Kwaikei  and  Unkei,  left  some 
works  which  are  particularly  interesting  as  examples 
of  the  realistic  spirit  animating  the  artists  of  the 
twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries,  and  the  great  care 
which  they  bestowed  on  all  the  accessory  details  of 
their  sculpture.  Koben's  "  Demon-lantern-bearers  " 
of  Kofuku-ji  are  justly  celebrated,  and  side  by  side 
with  the  savage  perplexity  of  one  imp  and  the  vacu- 
ous stolidity  of  the  other,  may  be  placed  a  statue  of 
Monjushiri,  dating  also  from  the  thirteenth  century, 
which,  as  a  type  of  serene  and  contemplative  benevo- 
lence, ranks  not  far  below  the  Kamakura  Dai-Butsu. 

VOL.    VII. 8  I  I  O 


JAPAN 

This  last  magnificent  specimen  of  religious  sculpture 
is  among  the  first  objects  towards  which  the  traveller 
turns  his  feet  on  arriving  in  Japan,  and  perhaps  among 
all  the  charmed  impressions  he  carries  away  from 
that  fair  country,  none  survives  longer  than  his  mem- 
ory of  the  majestic  benignity  and  ineffable  repose 
breathed  by  the  noble  statue. 

Outside  the  sphere  of  purely  supernatural   motives, 
the    Japanese  religious  gallery  contains  some  sculp- 
tures which  may  be  justly  compared  with  the  cele- 
brated busts  of  Perikles,  of  Homer,  of  Sophokles,  and 
other  famous  men  of  old.     Not  that  there  ever  was 
such  a  thing   as  a   bust  among  Japanese   sculptures. 
That  curious  outcome  of  Roman  practicality  would 
have  greatly  offended  Japanese  taste.     Yet  the  sculp- 
tures here  spoken  of  may  be  compared  to  the  bust  in  one 
respect,  namely,  that  they  derive  their  characteristics 
chiefly  from  the  face.     Such  works  are  Unkei's  statue 
of  Vimala-Kirtsi  Japanese  Yuima,  a  contemporary  of 
Gautama ;  the  figures  of  Muchaku  and  Seshin  in  the 
Kofuku-ji  at  Nara,  the  statue  of  Seitaka-doji  at  Hozan- 
ji,  and  a  few  others.     These  are  not  likeness  effigies, 
though  their  remarkable  realism  suggests  that  idea. 
It  is  possible  that  the  artists  were  assisted  by  Chinese 
pictures,  but  however  that  may  be,  these  sculptures 
compel  admiration  as  great    creations  of  art.     The 
supernatural  endowment  of  the  soul  within,  the  al- 
most divine  characteristics  of  these  immortal  teachers 
and  preachers  of   Buddhist  mysteries,  are   here  elo- 
quently revealed  by  some   subtlety  of  the  sculptor's 
art  which  speaks  of  the  men's  achievements  and  not 
merely    of    their    personality.      Unfortunately    such 
works  are  very  rare  in  Japan.     Of  likeness    effigies 
there  are  several,  but  ideal  creations  of  art    outside 

114 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

the  domain  of  deities  and  demigods  are  exceedingly 
few,  and  the  excellence  of  those  that  exist  render  this 
paucity  the  more  regrettable. 

Portrait  statues,  in  the  Roman  sense  of  the  term, 
do  not  seem  to  have  suggested  themselves  to  the 
Japanese  sculptor.  He  chiselled  a  few  likeness 
effigies  of  celebrated  personages  —  founders  of  sects 
or  temples,  renowned  warriors  and  great  administra- 
tors—  and  some  of  this  work  shows  the  suggestive- 
ness  that  distinguishes  refined  sculpture  from  mere 
accuracy  of  imitation.  But  the  likeness  effigy  was 
not  for  the  purpose  of  setting  up  in  public.  It  was 
hidden  away  in  a  mausoleum  or  a  shrine.1 

From  the  fourteenth  century  a  strong  tendency  to 
substitute  elaboration  for  idealism  made  itself  ap- 
parent. The  sculptor,  while  preserving  something 
of  the  serenity  of  the  Jocho  school,  lost  the  vigour, 
energy,  and  austerity  of  the  Unkei  ideal,  and  wasted 
his  strength  upon  an  infinity  of  ornamentation  exe- 
cuted with  the  utmost  delicacy.  He  reverted  also  to 
the  graceless  dumpiness  of  the  early  workers,  and 
sought  vainly  to  compensate  this  radical  fault  by 
such  artifices  as  elongated  drapery  and  innumerable 
pendants.  A  fourteenth-century  statue  of  the  Eleven- 
faced  Kwannon  preserved  at  a  temple  in  Kyoto  illus- 
trates this  depraved  style.  From  the  fifteenth  century 
commenced  the  custom  of  covering  religious  statues 
with  lacquer  carrying  magnificent  decoration  in 
gold.  Independently  of  the  principal  images  per- 
petually exposed  to  public  gaze  in  temples,  there  had 
always  been  preserved  minor  statuettes  enclosed  in 
shrines  called  zushi,  or  butsugan.  These  shrines  and 
the  images  they  enclosed  now  became  objects  of  great 

1  Sec  Appendix,  note  15. 

"5 


JAPAN 

splendour  and  beauty,  the  exterior  of  the  receptacle 
richly  lacquered,  its  hinges  and  metal  mountings  elabo- 
rately chased,  its  interior  refulgent  with  gold  foil  and 
profuse  carving,  while  the  statuette  itself,  mounted 
on  a  delicately  sculptured  pedestal,  sometimes  offered 
a  contrast  of  plain  white  wood  or  dark  bronze,  and 
sometimes  outshone  the  shrine  in  grandeur.1 

The  names  of  the  most  eminent  sculptors  from  the 
end  of  the  thirteenth  century  to  the  end  of  the  fif- 
teenth are  as  follows  :  — 

SEVENTH   AVENUE,   OR   WESTERN   SCHOOL 

From  the  End  of  the  Twelfth  to  the  Beginning  of  the  Fourteenth  Century 

Kwaikei,  Kokei  (teacher  of  Unkei),  Kaikei,  Unkei  (son  of 
Kaikei),  Tokei  (son  of  Unkei),  Jokaku  (pupil  of  Un- 
kei), Koun  (priest),  Kanyen  (son  of  Koun),  Koben, 
Koshd,  Koyo,  Koson,  Koyu. 

Fourteenth  and  Fifteenth   Centuries 

K5shun  (thirteenth  in  descent  from  Jocho),  Koyei  (son  of  K6- 
shun),  Kotan  (son  of  Koyei),  Kokitsu  (son  of  Kotan), 
Koyei  (son  of  Kokitsu),  Koshin  (son  of  Koyei)  Korin 
(son  of  Koshin). 

THIRD   AVENUE,    OR   EASTERN   SCHOOL 

From  the  End  of  the  Twelfth  to  the  Beginning  of  the  Fourteenth  Century 

Joyen,  Senyen,  Inko,  Injin,  Inbo,  Inken,  Inku,  Inso,  In- 
shu,  Injo,  Inchu,  Inyu,  Unga,  Unsho. 

Fourteenth  and  Fifteenth   Centuries 

Shunkei  (priest),  Rwaiken,  Eiyen,  Koshu  (son  of  Korin  of 
the  Western  School),  Kosei  (son  of  Koshu),  Kosei  (son 
of  Kosei). 

1  See  Appendix,  note  16. 

116 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

N.  B.  Many  of  the  above  artists  had  titles  bestowed  on 
them  in  recognition  of  their  skill.  Such  titles  were  H~ogen 
(eye  of  the  law),  Horn  (sign  of  the  law),  and  Hokyo  (bridge 
of  the  law). 

The  vast  majority  of  the  glyptic  works  executed  in 
early  and  mediaeval  times  were  intended  for  temples. 
The  same  remark  applies,  as  already  seen,  to  pictorial 
art,  but  in'  the  case  of  sculpture  it  may  be  illustrated 
by  reference  to  historical  records.  Thus,  in  the  reign 
of  the  Emperor  Shirakawa  —  eleventh  century  — 
three  thousand  sacred  images  were  ordered  by  his 
Majesty  for  enshrining  in  temples ;  in  the  thirteenth 
century  the  Emperor  Kameyama  placed  thirty-three 
thousand  images  in  the  Sanjusangendo  in  Kyoto, 
namely,  a  thousand  figures  of  the  Goddess  of  Mercy 
(Kwannon),  each  five  feet  high,  with  thirty-two 
thousand  smaller  effigies  mounted  on  the  foreheads, 
hands,  and  halos  of  the  larger  figures ;  and  in  the 
seventeenth  century,  the  Shogun  Hidetada  issued  an 
edict  requiring  that  every  household  throughout  the 
land  must  possess  a  Buddhist  image.  Several  times, 
too,  in  the  annals  of  early  eras,  references  occur  as  to 
scarcity  of  the  precious  metals — among  which  cop- 
per was  included  —  owing  to  extravagant  piety  on 
the  part  of  sovereigns  and  nobles,  who  did  not  hesi- 
tate to  throw  vast  quantities  of  coin  into  the  melting- 
pot  when  the  service  of  heaven  called  for  such 
sacrifices.  From  the  twelfth  century,  however,  wood 
became  the  material  commonly  used  for  statues. 
They  were  usually  covered  with  gold  foil,  and  it  is 
easy  to  conceive  the  magnificently  imposing  effect 
produced  by  such  a  concourse  of  gilded  images  as 
those  of  the  Sanjusangen-do  ;  a  forest  of  glittering  fig- 

117 


JAPAN 

ures,  rising  tier  upon  tier  in  the  solemn  obscurity  of  a 
vast  hall,  three  hundred  and  eighty-nine  feet  long  and 
fifty-seven  feet  high.  Of  course  this  lavish  multipli- 
city of  production  could  not  fail  to  stifle  originality  of 
conception.  Where  the  object  was  to  inspire  awe  by 
means  of  a  countless  concourse  of  deities,  it  would 
have  been  essentially  faulty  art  that  certain  figures 
should  detach  themselves  saliently  from  the  phalanx. 
Thus,  although  the  names  of  such  celebrated  sculp- 
tors as  Unkei,  Kokei,  Shichijo,  and  Koyei  are  associ- 
ated with  the  carving  of  the  principal  images  in  the 
Sanjusangen-do,  it  cannot  be  said  that  any  of  the 
effigies  stand  on  a  high  plane  of  glyptic  art.  No  two 
are  precisely  alike.  The  sculptors  were  careful  that 
each  should  be  invested  with  sufficient  individuality 
to  avert  the  impression  of  mere  iteration.  But  be- 
yond that  feat,  which  is  achieved  chiefly  by  mechani- 
cal means,  —  diverse  arrangement  of  the  figures'  hands 
and  of  the  emblems  held  in  them,  —  there  is  nothing 
to  relieve  the  monotony  of  type  and  execution. 

In  Europe  and  America  there  is  a  general  tendency 
to  dismiss  the  ancient  sculpture  of  the  East,  including 
that  of  Japan,  as  barbaric  in  character,  without  any 
sentiment  of  idealism  and  with  little  or  no  regard  for 
material  beauty.  A  high  place  is  indeed  conceded 
to  Japanese  decorative  sculpture,  but  it  is  held  that 
in  the  more  important  branch  of  the  art  she  never 
emerged  from  the  barbaric  or  indigenous  stage.  That 
verdict  must  surely  be  based  on  ignorance  of  the 
work  done  by  Japan's  ancient  and  mediaeval  sculptors  ; 
ignorance  not  at  all  surprising  when  it  is  remembered 
how  inaccessible  are  representative  examples  of  her 
art  and  how  few  have  made  any  serious  attempt  to 
study  them. 

118 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

It  has  been  shown  above  that  sculpture  owed  its 
origin  in  Japan  to  Buddhist  influence.  Whatever 
preceded  the  advent  of  Buddhism  was  too  crude 
to  deserve  consideration.  Buddhism  came  to  Japan 
from  India  through  China.  The  art  of  sculpture  that 
it  brought  to  China  in  its  train  did  not  receive  any 
notable  development  in  the  latter  country.  It  re- 
tained its  Indian  characteristics.  The  style  was  semi- 
barbaric  ;  symbolism  took  the  place  of  idealism ;  the 
power  and  attributes  of  divinity  were  expressed  by 
distortions  of  the  human  figure  or  by  colossal  dimen- 
sions, and  statuary  never  assumed  shapes  of  beauty. 
The  motives  of  the  art  were  purely  religious.  It 
was  an  agent  for  enforcing  a  supernatural  creed,  not  a 
medium  for  producing  types  of  beauty. 

In  Japan,  on  the  contrary,  the  art  made  great 
advances,  but  without  any  material  change  of  direction. 
The  sculptor  rose  to  much  higher  ideals,  but  his 
types  remained  the  same.  He  continued  to  be  bound 
by  a  rule  which  naturally  grew  out  of  such  a  system,  — 
the  rule  that  all  essentially  human  features  should  be 
avoided  as  far  as  possible.  The  influence  of  that  rule 
was  radical.  It  created  at  once  an  essential  difference 
between  the  object  of  sculpture  as  conceived  in  Greece 
and  endorsed  in  Europe,  and  its  object  as  pursued  in 
the  East.  The  Grecian  sculptor  kept  the  beautiful 
always  in  view.  Whatever  elements  of  beauty  and 
symmetry  were  discernible  in  the  human  form,  these 
he  sought  to  combine  for  the  creation  of  his  divine 
ideal.  But  the  Japanese  sculptor  had  nothing  to  do 
with  beauty.  His  aim  was  to  represent  certain  attri- 
butes which  are  virtually  independent  of  graces  of 
form,  being  essentially  intellectual.  What  a  statue 
of  the  Buddha  has  to  suggest  is  majestic  serenity  and 

119 


JAPAN 

eternal,  passionless  repose.      Something  of  that  idea 
may  be  contributed  by  the  posture  of  the  limbs,  but 
nothing  by  a  display  of  nude  symmetry.      It  is'  not 
possible  to  tell  how  Pheidias  would  have  sculptured 
a  Buddha  had  the   task   been  assigned  to  him,   but 
neither  his  chryselephantine  Zeus  nor  the  Jupiter  of 
the   Vatican   suggests    that   any   Grecian   or   Roman 
artist  could  have  produced  a  figure  expressing  more 
perfectly   the    attributes    of   Buddha    than    they   are 
expressed   by  the  Dai-Butsu  of  Kamakura.      If  this 
noble  figure  be  examined  closely,  a  combination  of 
Egyptian  and  Grecian  elements  is  found.      It  has  the 
colossal  size  of  Egyptian  statues,  and  it  exhibits  also 
plain  evidences  of  attention  to  the  perpendicular  and 
horizontal  lines  suggestive   of  eternal  stability.      On 
the  other  hand,  the  graceful  beauty  of  the  contours 
and  the  harmonious  flow  of  the  drapery  belong  to 
the  domain  of  Grecian  rather  than   of  Oriental  art. 
Still    more   characteristic    is   the   Japanese   sculptor's 
manner  of  representing    Kwannon   (Kwan-yin),  the 
Deity  of  Mercy.     The  traits   to  be  emphasised  are 
limitless  benevolence,   a    spirit   elevated  beyond  the 
range  of  any  ignoble  sentiment,  and  profound  sympa- 
thy guaranteed  against  anxious  emotion  by  assurance 
of  omnipotence  to  save.     That  combination  of  traits 
is  scarcely  conceivable  in  either  male  or  female  of  the 
human    species.     Therefore    the    Kwannon    of   the 
Japanese  sculptor  does  not  seem  to  belong  to  either 
sex.      It   has   the   gentle   graciousness   of  a   woman, 
the   placid   resolution   of  a   man,   and   the   inerrable 
purity  of  a  sexless  being. 

Human  intelligence  has  never  conceived  an  intelli- 
gent, sentient  being  in  any  shape  other  than  human. 
The  gods  and  goddesses  of  the  Greek  sculptor  were 


1 20 


.  to  ani 


"40    aUTATS   V.HCIOOW 
^sd  bn«  rftlle-.  ^nU  ot  bslndhJlA 


WOODEN  STATUE   OF   VIMALA-KIRTI. 
Attributed  to  Unkei.    End  of  twelfth  and  beginning  of  thirteenth  centuries. 


\ 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

merely  perfected  types  of  human  beauty,  and  the 
logic  of  his  canon  is  easily  appreciated.  The  Japan- 
ese sculptor,  however,  conceived  for  his  deities  coun- 
tenances which,  though  in  no  sense  repellent  or 
unnatural,  do  not  conform  with  the  ordinary  attri- 
butes of  comeliness.  The  chief  point  of  divergence 
is  an  enforcement  of  the  line  of  the  eyebrow.  It  is 
in  the  countenance  that  nature  shows  special  beauties 
of  profile,  and  one  of  the  most  graceful  is  the  curve 
of  the  eyebrow,  which  is  often  so  finely  treated  in 
Greek  statues.  This  the  Japanese  sculptor  empha- 
sised, so  that  while  its  grace  of  form  was  much 
enhanced,  the  face  received  an  etherealised  expression, 
removing  it  from  the  normal  human  type.  His 
treatment  of  the  ear  constituted  another  distinction. 
Appreciating  the  potentialities  of  its  elaborate  con- 
junction of  curves,  he  exaggerated  them,  as  in  the 
case  of  the  eyebrow,  and  thus  produced  a  feature 
which  helped  materially  to  differentiate  the  face.  In 
short,  his  interpretation  of  the  aspect  of  divinity  was 
to  give  salience  to  those  elements  of  the  countenance 
which,  in  his  opinion,  distinguished  it  specially  from 
the  animal  type.  Another  point  in  which  his 
method  differed  from  that  of  the  Greeks  was  that 
whereas  the  latter  avoided  any  expression  of  emotion, 
since  it  interfered  with  the  repose  and  dignity  of 
their  ideal,  the  Japanese  sculptor  frankly  represented, 
and  even  emphasised,  the  emotions  by  which  his 
semi-divinities  were  supposed  to  be  animated.  His 
figures  of  the  Deva  Kings  are  conspicuous  examples. 
Not  merely  the  expression  of  their  faces,  but  also 
every  limb  and  every  muscle  is  instinct  with  fierce 
energy  and  implacable  purpose.  Such  works,  though 
splendidly  vigorous  and  imposing,  are  not  "beautiful  " 

121 


JAPAN 

in  the  Grecian  sense  of  the  term,  and  consequently 
find  no  parallels  in  Grecian  sculpture.  But  it  is 
surely  extravagant  to  allege  that  they  sin  against  the 
principles  of  glyptic  art.  If  Grecian  masterpieces 
suggest  that  all  violent  expression  should  be  excluded 
from  the  province  of  sculpture,  and  that  where  truth 
cannot  be  combined  with  beauty  the  former  must  be 
subordinated  to  the  latter,  does  it  follow  that  the 
canon  is  final  and  conclusive?  An  answer  seems  to  be 
furnished  at  once  by  some  of  the  Japanese  sculptor's 
representations  of  the  Deva  Kings,  the  Four  Maha- 
rajas, the  deities  of  thunder  and  storm,  and  other  cog- 
nate creations.  These  statues  do  not  satisfy  the 
standard  of  classical  beauty,  but  they  command 
profound  admiration,  and  just  as  perfect  Grecian 
sculpture  is  an  ideal  combination  of  all  the  highest 
elements  of  beauty  presented  by  the  human  form,  so 
these  Japanese  sculptures  are  ideal  combinations  of  all 
the  qualities  that  typify  superhuman  strength,  resolu- 
tion, and  supremacy.  They  are  great  works,  not  to 
be  excluded  from  the  art  gallery  because  they  depart 
from  classic  conventionalism,  but  rather  to  be  ad- 
mitted as  proofs  that  the  convention  is  not  final. 

Such  works  prepare  the  student  to  find  that  the 
duty  of  subordinating  truth  to  beauty  did  not  impel 
the  Japanese  sculptor  to  invent  graceful  or  pictu- 
resque representatives  of  human  passions  and  excesses. 
Instead  of  devising  Satyrs,  Nymphs,  Fauns,  Centaurs, 
Maenads,  and  so  forth,  to  typify  the  lower  instincts 
of  humanity,  he  interpreted  the  spirit  of  vice  and 
mischief  as  an  ugly  demon,  not  indeed  as  hideous  as 
the  Satan  of  Christian  art  but  still  a  monster.  It  is 
scarcely  credible  that  even  the  Greeks,  though  shrink- 
ing from  everything  repulsive,  would  have  failed  to 

122 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

sculpture  a  devil  had  they  believed  that  the  doomed 
are  tortured  and  that  their  sufferings  are  superintended 
by  such  a  being.  But  since  they  entertained  no  such 
belief,  since  their  conception  of  the  eternal  conse- 
quences of  sin  was  very  trivial,  there  is  no  reason  to 
infer  that  they  excluded  the  demon  from  their  art 
gallery  merely  because  his  ugliness  disqualified  him 
for  admission.  The  truth  is  that  they  never  con- 
ceived him.  Buddhism,  however,  introduced  a  devil 
to  Japan  with  appropriate  furniture  of  horns,  claws, 
and  fangs.  But  he  did  not  find  a  place  in  the  gallery 
of  sacred  sculpture,  nor  did  any  of  the  celebrated 
artists  of  ancient  or  mediaeval  Japan  attempt  to  chisel  a 
demon,  if  the  deities  of  thunder  and  tempest,  who  are 
certainly  demoniacal  types,  and  the  impish  lantern- 
bearers  of  Kasuga,  be  excepted.  On  the  other  hand, 
if  the  devil's  place  in  Japanese  sacred  sculpture  was 
almost  as  rare  as  that  of  the  Harpies  in  Grecian  art, 
it  is  not  to  be  assumed  that  he  was  ostracised  because 
of  his  ugliness.  He  figures  prominently  in  Japanese 
secular  carving,  which  dates  from  a  later  epoch,  and 
there  can  be  no  question  that  in  the  eyes  of  the 
Japanese  his  ugliness  had  a  beauty  of  its  own,  as 
indeed  all  fully  developed  types  have. 

Nevertheless  it  is  necessary  to  conclude  that,  on 
the  whole,  the  range  of  the  art  sculptor  in  Japan  was 
narrow.  He  was  the  exponent  of  a  system  of  reli- 
gious belief  rather  than  of  the  heroic  and  the  pathetic 
in  humanity.  He  had  no  rich  source  of  motives  like 
that  wide  domain  peopled  by  Grecian  imagination 
with  mythological  heroes  and  heroines,  with  Dryads 
and  Hamadryads,  with  Nymphs  and  Fauns,  with  Naiads 
and  Nereids,  with  Satyrs,  Centaurs,  and  Minotaurs, 
representatives  of  noble  and  tender  fancies  or  pictur- 

123 


JAPAN 

esque  vices.  In  the  field  of  minor  sculpture  —  netsuke 
and  sword-furniture  —  he  drew  from  a  large  reper- 
toire of  motives  ;  from  the  pages  of  history,  of  legend, 
of  folk-lore,  and  of  every-day  life.  But  such  work 
dates  from  a  comparatively  late  period.  In  all  his 
early  and  mediaeval  sculpture  the  types  were  few,  and 
his  treatment  of  them  ultimately  became  conventional 
and  uninteresting.  This  requires  a  word  of  explana- 
tion. At  first  sight  it  seems  as  though  the  large 
population  of  the  Buddhist  and  Shinto  pantheons 
should  have  furnished  practically  unlimited  motives. 
The  Indian  creed  with  its  broad  liberality  of  eclecti- 
cism, and  Taoism  with  its  numerous  excursions  into 
elf-land  and  gnome-kingdom,  appear  to  offer  a  mine 
sufficiently  rich  for  any  artist.  But  religion  made 
from  these  a  strict  selection,  and  prescribed  almost  in- 
variable methods  of  treatment.  The  Nine  Phases  of 
Amitabha,  for  example,  a  formula  suggesting  varied 
developments,  signifies,  after  all,  nothing  more  than 
nine  images  distinguished  solely  by  the  positions  of 
their  hands  and  fingers.  The  legion  of  genii  that 
exercise  supernatural  power  in  mystic  regions  of  space 
appear  to  invite  an  endless  play  of  poetic  and  artistic 
fancy.  But  their  orthodox  representatives,  whether 
in  painting  or  sculpture,  are  generally  paltry  in  con- 
ception and  disappointingly  deficient  in  the  dignity 
of  apotheosis.  It  fared  with  the  sculptors  of  Japan  as 
it  had  fared  with  those  of  Byzantium.  Bound  by 
conventions  which  religion,  not  art,  dictated,  and 
which  superstition  enforced,  they  did  not  venture  to 
follow  ideals  of  their  own,  or  to  introduce  strongly 
subjective  elements  into  their  work. 

It  will  further  be  observed  that  the  cardinal  point 
of  difference  between  Japanese  and  Grecian  methods 

124 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

was  that  in  Japan  the  divine  nature  was  never  allied 
with  the  human  form,  and  thus  the  attributes  of  the 
former  found  no  expression  in  the  beauties  of  the 
latter.  Japanese  deities  were  always  draped  wholly 
or  partially.  The  Deva  Kings  and  demoniacal  beings 
in  general  had  much  of  the  body  exposed,  because  a 
display  of  muscular  force  entered  into  the  artistic  con- 
ception of  such  statues.  But  a  nude  Buddha  or  a 
nude  Kwannon  would  have  been  an  intolerable  sole- 
cism in  Japanese  eyes.  The  peculiar  conditions  that 
directed  artistic  attention  in  Greece  to  the  graces  of 
the  human  form  did  not  exist  in  Japan,  where  ex- 
posure of  the  person  was  permitted  to  the  lower 
orders  only,  and  then  for  purposes  of  toilsome  labour 
or  ablutions.  That  the  nude  should  be  tabooed  in 
art  under  such  circumstances  was  inevitable. 

Before  continuing  the  story  of  the  development  of 
sculpture,  it  will  be  well  to  speak  briefly  of  the 
physical  character  of  Japanese  bronze,  and  of  the 
methods  adopted  in  modelling  and  casting. 

"  Bronze  "  is  known  in  Japan  as  kara-kane  (Chinese 
metal),  a  term  clearly  indicating  the  source  whence  a 
knowledge  of  the  alloy  was  derived.  It  is  a  copper- 
tin-lead  compound,  the  proportions  of  its  constituents 
varying  from  seventy-two  to  eighty-eight  per  cent 
of  copper,  from  two  to  eight  per  cent  of  tin,  and 
from  four  to  twenty  per  cent  of  lead.  It  also  con- 
tains small  quantities  of  arsenic  and  antimony,  as  well 
as  zinc,  varying  from  a  trace  to  as  much  as  six 
per  cent.  There  is  a  tradition  that  some  ancient 
bronzes  had  a  considerable  admixture  of  gold,  but  no 
analysis  has  showed  more  than  an  occasional  trace 
of  the  precious  metal,  and  not  more  than  two  per 
cent  of  silver  has  ever  been  found.  Lead  was  ex- 

125 


JAPAN 

eluded  from  bronze  destined  for  the  manufacture  of 
swords  and  other  weapons  in  which  strength  and  hard- 
ness were  essential,  but  it  always  found  a  place  in 
bronze  intended  for  artistic  castings.  An  interesting 
fact  is  that  the  ancient  bronzes  of  Egypt,  Rome,  and 
Greece  were  alloys  in  which  the  principal  constitu- 
ents varied  similarly,  though  these  Occidental  bronzes 
differed  from  the  Japanese  in  being  entirely  free  from 
arsenic  and  antimony.  It  must  not  be  assumed, 
however,  that  the  presence  of  the  latter  metals  in 
Japanese  bronze  of  later  times  was  due  to  defective 
processes,  whatever  may  have  been  the  case  formerly. 
The  cause  is  to  be  sought  in  the  addition  of  a  pseudo- 
spiese  (called  shirome] ;  an  alloy  of  copper,  arsenic, 
lead,  and  antimony,  obtained  as  a  by-product  in 
separating  silver  from  copper  by  liquation  with 
lead,  a  process  introduced  into  Japan  by  the  Portu- 
guese in  the  sixteenth  century,  but  subsequently  altered 
by  the  Japanese  so  that  "  the  results  achieved  with  it 
far  surpassed  in  economy  and  in  completeness  of  separa- 
tion of  the  respective  metals  anything  that  had  been 
accomplished  in  its  original  form."  l  Alone  shirome 
is  worthless,  but  the  Japanese  discovered  that  by  em- 
ploying it  as  a  constituent  of  bronze,  the  latter  ob- 
tained greater  hardness  without  impairment  of  fusibil- 
ity, so  that  it  took  a  sharper  impression  of  the  mould. 
From  the  early  part  of  the  seventeenth  century 
shirome  was  constantly  added  to  bronze  destined  for 
ornamental  or  useful  castings,  since,  in  addition  to  the 
advantages  mentioned  above,  it  facilitated  the  produc- 
tion of  a  deep  gray  patina,  which  was  thought  spe- 
cially suitable  for  silver  inlaying.  Competent  experts 
have  decided  that  Japanese  bronze  is  eminently 

1  See  Appendix,  note  1 7. 

126 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

adapted  for  art  castings,  not  only  because  of  its 
low  melting-point,  great  fluidity,  and  capacity  for 
taking  sharp  impressions,  but  also  because  it  has  a 
particularly  smooth  surface  and  readily  acquires  a  rich 
patina. 

Concerning  the  quality  of  Japanese  bronze,  Mr.  W. 
Gowland,  in  a  paper  read  before  the  Applied  Art 
Section  of  the  Society  of  Arts,  makes  the  following 
interesting  remarks :  — 

The  chief  characters  on  which  the  value  of  the  Japanese 
copper-tin-lead  alloys,  as  art  bronzes,  depend,  may  be  briefly 
stated  as  follows  :  — 

1.  Low  melting-point.     This  is  of  especial  importance 
to  the  Japanese  founder,  owing  to  the  fusible  nature  of  the 
clays  and  sands  of    which  his   crucibles    and   moulds   are 
made. 

2.  Great  fluidity  when  melted  compared  with  the  sluggish- 
ness of  copper-tin  bronzes. 

3.  Capability  of  receiving  sharp  impression  of  the  mould. 

4.  Their  contraction  on  solidification  is  not  excessive. 

5.  Their  peculiar  smooth  surface. 

6.  The  readiness  with  which  they  acquire  rich  patinas  of 
many  tints  when  suitably  treated. 

The  advantages  resulting  from  the  above  properties  will 
be  obvious  to  all  artists  in  bronze.  They  are  chiefly  the 
result  of  the  use  of  lead  as  one  of  the  chief  constituents  of 
the  alloys.  The  low  melting-point  of  these  bronzes,  their 
fluidity  when  melted,  and  the  facility  with  which  they  acquire 
certain  patinas  are  indeed  entirely  due  to  the  use  of  this 
metal.  The  fine  velvety  surface  and  sharpness  of  the  cast- 
ings depend  in  a  great  measure  on  the  structure  of  the 
mould  and  its  comparatively  high  temperature  when  the 
bronze  is  poured  into  it,  although  partly  also  on  the  influ- 
ence of  the  lead.  These  alloys  are,  however,  not  without 
some  disadvantageous  properties,  and  these  are  also  due  to 
the  lead  which  they  contain.  They  are  often  low  in  te- 
nacity, and  offer  but  little  resistance  to  bending  and  torsion 

127 


JAPAN 

when  compared  with  simple  copper-tin  bronzes,  even  when 
they  contain  sufficient  tin  to  enable  them  to  hold  more  lead 
in  solution  than  they  would  otherwise  do.  Their  use  is 
hence  almost  limited  to  the  production  of  objects  of  art. 
And  even  for  those  art  castings,  such  as,  for  example,  large 
equestrian  or  other  statues,  where  a  considerable  strain  has 
to  be  borne  by  certain  parts,  their  use  is  unadvisable.  But 
in  most  art  castings  of  moderate  size  —  and  even  in  many 
of  colossal  proportions,  where  the  position  of  the  centre  of 
gravity  of  the  mass  does  not  cause  excessive  tension  in  any 
part  —  it  is  not  necessary  that  the  metal  of  which  they  are 
cast  should  possess  great  tenacity ;  for  all  such,  these  alloys 
are  eminently  adapted,  and  especially  so,  as  by  no  others  can 
the  work  of  the  artist's  hand  with  all  its  delicate  and  mas- 
terly touches,  be  so  readily  and  perfectly  reproduced. 

The  above  remarks  apply  to  the  ordinary  bronze 
of  temple  images  and  utensils.  There  is  also  a  yel- 
low bronze  called  sentoku  because  the  first  specimen 
of  it  reached  Japan  in  the  Shuntish  (sentoku,  in  Japan- 
ese pronunciation)  era  of  the  Ming  dynasty.  Accord- 
ing to  Japanese  traditions,  this  alloy  was  accidentally 
obtained  when  the  Chinese  melted  together  the 
bronze  and  gold  vessels  of  the  conquered  Mongols. 
But  gold  does  not  enter  into  the  composition  at  all; 
the  presence  of  the  precious  metal  is  ignorantly  im- 
agined because  of  the  golden  colour  of  the  alloy. 
Copper,  tin,  lead,  and  zinc,  variously  mixed  by  dif- 
ferent experts,  are  the  ingredients.  Its  beautiful  golden 
colour  and  glossy  texture  made  it  a  favourite  material 
in  some  workshops,  and  it  is  largely  used  in  modern 
times.  One  very  charming  variety  has  a  surface  like 
aventurine  lacquer  (nasbiji,  or  "  pear  ground,"  as  it  is 
called  in  Japan) :  that  is  to  say,  specks  or  flecks  of  gold 
seem  to  float  up  from  the  depths  of  the  metal.  This 
effect  is  obtained  by  heating  the  alloy  many  times  in 

128 


U-inlu1o>I  elqmsT    .qirip.ntrrTjhow  rwJnoo  ritrf^iH    (.aarfoni  >^S  Jaei  E 


BRONZE   GONG. 
(See  page  89.) 

(Height,  3  feet  "2Y*  inches.)    Eighth  century  workmanship.    Temple  Kofuku-jl. 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

the  furnace,  and  sprinkling  it  while  hot  with  sulphate 
of  copper  and  nitric  acid. 

With  regard  to  the  method  of  casting,  Mr.  Gow- 
land's  description  of  a  typical  operation  witnessed  by 
himself  is  this  :  — 

The  bronze  was  melted  in  a  cupola  furnace.  Charcoal 
was  used  as  fuel,  and  the  blast  was  produced  by  a  "  tatara  " 
(kind  of  bellows)  worked  by  eight  persons. 

From  an  early  hour  in  the  morning,  and  whilst  the  melt- 
ing was  proceeding,  the  foundry  staff  was  engaged  in  prepar- 
ing the  moulds  for  the  reception  of  the  metal  by  heating 
them  to  redness.  This  was  effected  in  the  following  manner : 
The  mould  was  placed  on  five  or  six  bricks,  to  raise  it  above 
the  earthen  floor  of  the  melting-room.  Its  ingates  were 
closed  with  stoppers  of  clay,  and  conical  tubes  were  fitted 
over  its  air  outlets  to  prevent  any  fuel  from  falling  into 
them.  A  wall  of  fireclay  slabs  was  now  built  up  around  it, 
the  slabs  being  kept  in  position  by  hoops  and  bands  of  iron 
and  an  external  luting  of  clay,  a  space  about  three  inches 
wide  at  its  narrowest  part  being  left  between  the  inside  of 
the  wall  and  the  outside  of  the  mould.  A  charcoal  fire  was 
then  made  on  the  floor  below  the  mould,  and  the  space  be- 
tween the  wall  and  the  mould  was  completely  filled  with 
burning  charcoal  which  was  mixed  with  fragments  of  bricks 
and  crucibles  to  prevent  the  heat  from  becoming  too  intense. 
The  interior  of  the  core  was  also  partly  filled  with  the  same 
mixture,  and  two  clay  tubes  were  fitted  above  it  to  serve  the 
purpose  of  chimneys.  The  temperature  of  the  interior  was 
regulated  by  partially  or  entirely  closing  the  upper  openings 
of  these  tubes  with  tiles.  The  mould  was  kept  at  a  red  heat 
for  more  than  two  hours,  by  which  time  the  metal  was  nearly 
ready.  The  wall  of  clay  slabs  and  the  draught  tubes  were 
now  rapidly  taken  down  and  the  fire  was  raked  away.  The 
bricks  supporting  the  mould  were  carefully  removed  and  the 
holes  through  which  the  wax  had  run  out  stopped  up  with 
fireclay.  During  their  removal  the  floor  below  was  sprinkled 
with  water  and  softened  by  shovelling,  and  on  this  the 
mould  was  allowed  to  rest.  Large  stones  were  now  piled 

VOL.    VII. 9 


JAPAN 

around  its  base  to  steady  it,  and  the  stoppers  were  removed 
from  the  ingates.  The  ingates,  of  which  there  were  seven  — 
four  about  the  middle  of  the  mould  and  three  at  the  top  — 
were  fashioned  in  the  form  of  small  cups  of  fireclay,  about 
two  inches  in  diameter,  each  having  three  apertures  half- 
inch  in  diameter  opening  into  the  channel  leading  into  the 
mould. 

The  mould  was  now  ready  for  receiving  the  metal.  On 
looking  into  it  through  one  of  the  ingates  it  was  seen  to  be 
at  a  dull  red  heat.  The  bronze  was  then  tapped  into  four 
iron  ladles,  each  of  which  was  held  by  a  workman,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  wood  ashes  was  thrown  upon  its  surface. 
The  workmen  then  took  up  their  positions  opposite  the 
lower  ingates,  and  on  a  signal  being  given  poured  the  con- 
tents of  their  ladles  simultaneously  into  the  mould.  The 
quantity  of  metal  had  been  very  accurately  estimated  as  it 
just  reached  about  half-way  up  each  ingate.  These  ingates 
were  then  closed  with  clay  stoppers  luted  in  with  fireclay. 
Three  of  the  ladles  were  filled  again  and  poured  in  the  same 
manner  as  before,  but  into  the  upper  ingates,  completely  fill- 
ing the  mould.  During  pouring  very  finely  powdered  rice 
bran  was  thinly  sprinkled  on  the  metal  as  it  flowed  from  the 
mouths  of  the  ladles.  The  mould  was  allowed  to  stand  for 
six  hours  before  breaking  it  from  off  the  casting.  Several 
other  smaller  moulds  were  then  filled  in  a  similar  manner, 
and  as  one  ladleful  of  metal  was  sufficient  to  fill  each,  they 
had  only  one  ingate  and  one  air  outlet.  Whilst  the  bronze 
was  being  poured  into  them  they  were  rather  vigorously 
tapped  with  a  short  stick  to  dislodge  any  air  bubbles  which 
might  have  adhered  to  their  sides. 

For  castings  of  very  large  size  ladles  are  not  used,  but 
the  bronze  is  run  from  one  or  more  cupola  furnaces,  first 
into  a  receptacle  lined  with  fireclay,  and  then  from  this  through 
an  aperture  in  its  bottom  into  the  mould.  The  outflow  is 
regulated  by  means  of  a  plug,  so  that  a  considerable  depth 
of  metal  is  always  retained  in  the  receptacle  in  order  that 
scoriae  and  oxidised  scums  may  be  prevented  from  entering 
the  mould.  To  prevent  oxidation  as  far  as  possible,  the 
surface  of  the  metal  is  kept  carefully  covered  with  a  layer  of 
charcoal  or  of  partially  carbonised  straw. 

130 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

A  subsidiary  but  often  necessary  part  of  the  founder's 
work,  and  one  in  which  the  Japanese  exhibit  very  great 
skill,  'js  the  repairing  of  any  defects  that  the  castings  may 
show  on  their  removal  from  the  moulds.  Thus,  for 
example,  occasionally  the  rim  or  other  part  of  a  vase  may  be 
imperfect,  owing  to  the  retention  of  air  in  the  mould  when 
the  metal  was  poured  in.  In  this  case  the  imperfect  part  is 
carefully  remodelled  in  wax  on  the  defective  casting,  a  clay 
mould  is  made  over  it  in  the  usual  way,  and  the  wax  is 
melted  out.  A  certain  quantity  of  metal  is  then  poured  in 
and  allowed  to  run  out  until  the  edges  of  the  defective  part 
have  been  partially  melted,  when  the  outlet  is  stopped  and 
the  mould  allowed  to  fill.  When  it  has  solidified,  the  clay 
mould  is  broken  away  and  the  excess  of  metal  filed  off. 

Handles  and  ornamental  appendages,  which  have  been 
separately  cast,  are  frequently  attached  to  objects  in  this 
manner.  Separate  parts  of  complicated  groups  and  often 
figures  are  similarly  united,  and  often  this  is  so  skilfully 
done  that  it  is  impossible  to  say  whether  the  whole  is  a  true 
single  casting  or  is  composed  of  several  pieces  which  have 
been  separately  cast. 

Rude  as  the  appliances  and  methods  of  the  Japanese  art 
founder,  which  I  have  just  described,  may  seem  to  us,  he 
has  produced  with  them  castings  in  bronze  on  all  scales, 
which,  with  all  the  modern  equipments  of  our  foundries,  it 
would  be  difficult  for  us  to  excel.  The  simplicity,  adapta- 
bility, and  portable  character  of  his  appliances  have  been  of 
special  advantage  to  him  in  his  remarkable  achievements  in 
colossal  castings.  Thus,  when  a  huge  image  of  a  Buddhist 
divinity  or  a  bell  of  unusual  weight  was  required  for  a  tem- 
ple or  any  locality,  the  whole  of  the  operations  were  con- 
ducted on  the  spot.  Temporary  sheds  for  the  modelling 
were  erected  in  the  temple  grounds.  The  furnace  and 
blowers  were  transported  thither  in  segments ;  sometimes 
the  latter  were  even  made  by  the  local  carpenters.  If  the 
casting  had  to  be  made  in  one  piece,  the  necessary  number 
of  cupola  furnaces,  each  with  its  blower,  were  erected  around 
the  mould.  The  cost  of  the  blast  was  nit,  as  the  services  of 
any  number  of  eager  volunteers,  from  the  crowds  which 
congregated  at  the  temple  festival  on  the  day  of  casting, 


JAPAN 

were  readily  obtained  for  the  meritorious  work  of  treading 
the  blowing-machines.  In  this  way  the  great  bells  and 
colossal  images  were  cast. 

It  may  be  interesting  to  note  here,  that  the  methods  of 
heating  the  mould  and  of  repairing  defective  castings  were 
in  use  in  Europe  during  the  tenth  and  eleventh  centuries, 
and  doubtless  at  a  very  much  earlier  date.  They  are  de- 
scribed by  Theophilus  in  his  valuable  treatise,  "  De  Diversis 
Artibus,"  written  in  the  early  half  of  the  eleventh  century, 
and  his  description  is  practically  identical  with  that  I  have 
just  given  of  them  as  they  are  practised  in  Japan. 

What  is  here  stated  about  the  subsidiary  processes 
employed  for  uniting  the  parts  of  colossal  figures  or 
complicated  groups,  has  a  special  bearing  on  the 
work  of  ancient  Japanese  casters.  The  great  image 
of  Lochana  Buddha  at  Nara  is  fifty-three  feet  high. 
It  is  in  a  sitting  posture.  Were  it  standing  erect,  it 
would  measure  138  feet,  approximately.  Tradition 
says  that  the  metals  used  were  500  pounds  of  gold, 
16,827  pounds  of  tin,  1,954  pounds  of  mercury, 
and  986,180  pounds  of  copper;  but  the  statement  is 
evidently  inexact,  since  it  omits  lead.  The  gold  and 
mercury  served,  of  course,  for  gilding  purposes  only. 
This  figure  was  cast  not  in  one  piece,  but  in  a 
number  of  segments,  —  plates  measuring  ten  inches 
by  twelve  superficially,  and  six  inches  in  thickness. 
The  same  method  of  construction  was  adopted  in  the 
case  of  the  huge  Amida  at  Kamakura,  which  has  a 
height  only  three  feet  less  than  that  of  the  Nara  Dai- 
Eutsu.  History  tells  that  the  plan  pursued  by  the  early 
Greeks,  as  illustrated  in  the  Spartan  statue  of  Zeus  de- 
scribed by  Pausanias,  was  to  hammer  bronze  plates  over 
a  model  and  subsequently  to  rivet  them  together.  Not 
until  the  sixth  century  before  the  Christian  era  was 
the  art  of  hollow  casting  discovered.  Now,  although 

132 


JAPANESE     APPLIED     ART 

the  huge  images  of  Japan,  like  the  very  much  smaller 
statues  of  ancient  Greece,  were  finally  built  up  with 
plates  of  bronze,  these  plates  were  not  originally  ham- 
mered into  shape  :  they  were  cast.  The  building-up 
process  was  evidently  resorted  to  because  it  would 
have  been  scarcely  possible  to  cast  such  gigantic 
figures  in  situ,  neither  could  the  mechanical  genius  of 
the  age  have  furnished  any  means  of  transporting  and 
elevating  upon  its  pedestal  an  image  weighing  five 
hundred  and  fifty  tons,  as  the  Nara  Dai-Butsu  did. 
It  is  thus  apparent  that  the  Japanese  of  the  eighth 
century  understood  and  practised  with  marked  success 
the  process  which  is  regarded  as  the  highest  develop- 
ment of  the  caster's  art,  namely,  the  employment  of  a 
hollow,  removable  core  round  which  the  metal  is  run 
in  a  skin  just  thick  enough  for  strength  without  waste 
of  material.  The  object  was  first  roughly  modelled 
in  clay  on  a  hollow  wooden  core.  Then,  over  the 
clay,  a  skin  of  wax  was  applied,  and  in  this  the  artist 
worked  all  the  details,  whether  of  form  or  of  decora- 
tion. Thereafter  a  thin  layer  of  clay  was  applied 
with  a  brush,  and  when  it  had  dried,  other  layers 
were  similarly  superposed,  until  coats  of  coarser  clay 
could  be  added  so  as  to  obtain  the  requisite  strength 
of  mould.  Then  the  mould  was  dried  slowly  by 
means  of  gentle  heat,  and  the  wooden  core  having 
been  removed,  the  wax  was  melted  out,  leaving  a 
hollow  space  into  which  the  molten  bronze  could  be 
poured,  the  outer  envelope  and  the  inner  skin  of  clay 
being  ultimately  broken  up  and  removed.  A  bronze 
casting  obtained  by  this  process  was  evidently  a  shell 
without  any  break  of  continuity,  whereas  for  great 
images,  like  the  Dai-Butsu  of  Nara  and  Kamakura,  it 
was  necessary  to  cast  the  shell  in  a  number  of  small 

133 


JAPAN 

and  easily  manipulated  segments.  Records  say  that 
the  plan  pursued  by  the  artists  of  the  Nara  Dai-Butsu 
was  to  gradually  build  up  the  walls  of  the  mould  as 
the  lower  part  of  the  casting  cooled,  instead  of  con- 
structing the  whole  mould  first  and  making  the  cast- 
ing in  a  single  piece.  On  that  supposition  it  appears 
that  the  mould  was  constructed  in  a  series  of  steps 
ascending  twelve  inches  at  a  time,  and  as  the  head, 
which  with  the  neck  measures  some  twelve  feet  in 
height,  was  cast  in  one  shell,  it  follows  that  the  body 
must  have  been  made  in  forty-one  independent  layers. 
The  labour  and  risks  of  such  a  process  are  evidently 
enormous. 


134 


Chapter  IV 


BRONZE-CASTING,    ARCHITECTURAL 
SCULPTURE  AND  DECORATION,  ETC. 

IT  is  evident  from  what  has  been  written  above 
that  up  to  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century 
the  resources  of  applied  art  were  employed  almost 
entirely  for  religious  purposes,  —  the  modelling 
or  casting  of  sacred  images,  the  lacquering  and  inlay- 
ing of  pillars  and  beams,  the  pictorial  decoration  of 
door  panels  or  ceiling  coffers,  and  the  chiselling  of 
ornamental  metal  mountings  and  temple  accessories. 
But  from  the  days  of  Nobunaga  and  Hideyoshi  the 
services  of  applied  art  began  to  be  enlisted  for  secular 
purposes  even  more  largely  than  for  sacred.  The 
prime  cause  of  this  change  was  foreign  intercourse. 
Contact  with  the  Dutch  and  the  Portuguese  suggested 
the  substitution  of  large  solidly  constructed  castles  for 
the  flimsy  wooden  edifices  that  had  previously  served 
as  military  strongholds,  and  it  soon  became  difficult 
to  reconcile  the  simplicity  of  old-time  domestic 
interiors  with  the  lives  of  the  lords  of  such  massive 
structures.  Hideyoshi's  tastes  greatly  promoted  this 
sequence  of  ideas.  Though  the  scenes  and  struggles 
of  his  career  were  not  at  all  calculated  to  develop 
artistic  proclivities,  he  was  found  to  be  an  impassioned 
lover  of  the  beautiful  and  the  refined  when  he  rose  to 
power,  and  he  not  only  encouraged  art  effort  in  every 


JAPAN 

form,  but  also  converted  the  once  simple  tea-ceremony 
into  a  vehicle  for  promoting  the  collection  of  costly 
objects  of  virtu.  It  was  undoubtedly  in  this  respect 
that  he  produced  the  greatest  and  most  permanent 
effect  on  his  country ;  for  whereas  the  unvarying 
habit  of  the  nation,  even  in  the  days  of  Fujiwara 
magnificence,  had  been  to  cultivate  beauty  without 
display,  Hideyoshi  introduced  the  custom  of  associat- 
ing beauty  with  display.  He  may  be  said  to  have 
extended  the  range  of  decorative  art  from  accessories 
to  principals,  and  to  have  made  splendour  the  perpet- 
ual accompaniment  of  life,  not  merely  a  feature  of  its 
occasional  incidents.  It  thus  becomes  necessary  to 
speak  henceforth  of  applied  art  according  to  the  fields 
of  its  employment,  not,  as  hitherto,  in  connection 
with  religion  alone. 

Up  to  the  thirteenth  century  the  Japanese  did  not 
use  iron  caldrons  for  boiling  rice.  They  employed  a 
vessel  of  baked  clay,  sinking  it  in  a  hole  in  the  ground 
and  applying  heat  from  above.  The  manufacture  of 
iron  vessels  for  such  purposes  commenced  under  cir- 
cumstances of  which  no  record  exists,  but  it  is  known 
to  have  been  inaugurated  by  Shichirozayemon,  a  de- 
scendant of  the  second  son  of  the  Hojo  Regent  Yoshi- 
toki.  Had  it  not  been  for  the  skill  of  this  man  and 
his  descendants  as  iron-casters,  the  tea-clubs  established 
under  the  auspices  of  Yoshimasa,  at  the  close  of  the 
fifteenth  century,  might  have  found  difficulty  in  ob- 
taining urns  adapted  to  their  taste.  But  Nagoshi 
Yashichiro,  great-grandson  of  Shichirozayemon,  was 
able  to  meet  the  novel  demand.  The  term  "urn" 
is  somewhat  misleading  in  this  context,  for  the  cha- 
gama  of  Japan  partakes  rather  of  the  nature  of  a  cal- 
dron. Roughly  described,  it  is  a  spherical  vessel 

136 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

encircled  by  a  broad  flange,  so  that  while  the  lower 
hemisphere  is  sunk  into  a  charcoal  furnace,  the  upper, 
supported  on  the  flange,  remains  above  the  level  of 
the  matted  floor.  But  that  is  indeed  a  rough  descrip- 
tion, for  the  cha-gama  engrossed  the  skill  of  the  best 
artisans,  and  designs  for  its  shape  and  ornamentation 
were  furnished  by  the  greatest  artists.  Yashichiro's 
models  were  sketched  by  the  painters  that  helped 
Yoshimasa  to  elaborate  the  details  and  utensils  of  the 
tea  ceremonial,  and  a  metal-caster  himself  had  the 
honour  to  be  appointed  metal-caster  and  sculptor  to 
the  Imperial  Household,  the  Ise  Shrine,  and  the  Sbo- 
guns  family.  He  received  the  art  name  "  Miami," 
and  from  his  time  the  iron  tea-urn  occupied  a  place 
of  great  importance.  Japanese  connoisseurs  recognise 
and  appreciate  infinitesimally  small  differences  in 
shape,  in  quality  of  metal,  and  in  surface  decoration, 
and  though  the  foreign  amateur  can  scarcely  emulate 
such  discrimination,  he  finds  no  difficulty  in  admiring 
the  refined  taste,  the  ingenuity  of  form  and  design, 
and  the  elaboration  of  nomenclature  that  are  lavished 
in  Japan  on  utensils  which,  in  other  parts  of  the 
world,  would  be  regarded  as  little  better  than  kitchen 
furniture.  Sesshiu,  the  celebrated  painter,  furnished 
designs  for  cha-gama  in  the  fifteenth  century,  and 
when  the  tea  ceremonial,  under  the  patronage  of 
rulers  like  Nobunaga  and  Hideyoshi,  assumed  national 
dimensions,  the  manufacture  of  iron  urns  became  a 
branch  of  high  art,  and  continued  to  have  that  rank 
throughout  the  whole  of  the  Yedo  epoch.  The  cha- 
gama,  however,  has  no  honour  outside  Japan.  Being 
inseparable  from  the  purpose  it  serves,  it  has  never 
commended  itself  to  the  European  or  American 
collector,  nor  has  any  writer  undertaken  to  compare 

137 


JAPAN 

the  relative  merits  of  the  amida-doy  the  maru-gama,  the 
dai-unryo,  the  sho-unryoy  the  shiri-hari,  and  a  multitude 
of  other  shapes  esteemed  by  the  tea-clubs.  But  there 
is  interest  in  knowing  that  the  manufacture  of  the 
tea-urn  gave  impetus  to  metal  work  in  general,  and 
that  the  kama-shi  (urn-maker),  though  proud  to  be 
so  called,  did  not  by  any  means  confine  himself  to  the 
production  of  kama.  His  work  extended  to  all  kinds 
of  metal  utensils  for  the  use  of  the  tea-clubs  or  the 
furniture  of  temples,  and  he  cast  not  only  bells  and 
pedestal  lamps  but  even  cannon.  The  Nagoshi  fam- 
ily attained  the  highest  reputation  as  kama-shi.  In 
the  sixteenth  century  the  representatives  of  the  sixth, 
seventh,  and  eighth  generations,  Joyu,  Zensho,  and 
Sansho  (known  also  by  his  art  name,  Jomi),  as  well 
as  the  latter's  brother  (Sanehisa  or  Ittan),  were  con- 
spicuously famous.  Sansho  cast  a  great  bell  for  the 
temple  of  the  Kyoto  Dai-Butsu,  and  received  the 
title  of  Echizen  no  Sh~bjo ;  and  Sanehisa  manufactured 
a  bronze  image  sixteen  feet  high  for  the  same  temple. 
These  artists,  having  enjoyed  the  patronage  of  the  Taiko 
and  received  from  him  the  honorific  appellation  of 
Tenka  Ichl  (first  under  the  sun),  refrained  from  serv- 
ing the  Tokugawa  Shoguns.  But  Sanehisa's  younger 
brother,  lyemasa  (or  Zuiyetsu),  was  not  influenced  by 
such  scruples.  The  Yedo  Government  conferred  on 
him  the  title  of  Etcbu  no  Sbyo,  and  in  conjunction  with 
his  pupils,  Onishi,  Josei,  and  Joho,  he  founded  a 
school  of  artists  who  executed  many  beautiful  works 
in  bronze  and  iron  during  the  seventeenth,  eighteenth, 
and  nineteenth  centuries,  were  munificently  supported 
by  the  Tokugawa  Sboguns,  and  had  titles  of  rank  be- 
stowed on  them  ;  a  point  not  unworthy  of  note,  since 
European  writers  have  denied  that  Japanese  art- 

138 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

founders    ever    rose    above    the    grade    of    common 
artisans. 

The  Tokugawa  era  (1620—1850)  is  justly  regarded 
as  the  golden  period  of  the  bronze-caster's  art  in 
Japan.  It  was  marked,  not  by  any  specially  con- 
spicuous achievements  like  the  founding  of  the  colossal 
Buddhas  at  Nara  and  Kamakura,  but  rather  by  a  long 
series  of  beautiful  works  executed  for  the  mausolea 
of  the  Tokugawa  in  Yedo  and  Nikko,  and  for  other 
temples  and  shrines  throughout  the  Empire.  These 
works  consisted  of  thupas,  pedestal  and  hanging 
lamps,  vases,  pricket-candlesticks,  censers,  pagodas, 
reliquaries,  gates,  fonts,  figures  of  mythological  ani- 
mals, images  of  deities  and  saints,  pillar-caps  and 
other  objects  of  an  architectural  character.  The  thupas 
were  never  highly  ornamented  :  they  depended  chiefly 
on  chaste  simplicity  of  outline  and  graces  of  form. 
The  same  remark  applies  in  part  to  the  vases,  censers, 
and  pricket-candlesticks  placed  before  altars  and 
tombs.1  These  showed  continual  fidelity  to  tradi- 
tional models.  The  vase  had  the  familiar  "  beaker  " 
shape  of  China,  and  its  ornamentation  consisted  only 
of  vertical  bands  scalloped  in  high  relief  and  of  medal- 
lions enclosing  Paullownia  leaves.  The  censers,  too, 
had  plain  surfaces  broken  by  two,  or  at  most  three, 
similar  medallions,  their  lids  surmounted  by  a  Dog  of 
Fo  and  their  feet  modelled  to  represent  the  head  of 
that  animal.  The  pricket-candlestick  invariably  took 
the  form  of  a  stork  standing  on  a  tortoise,  or  on  a  lotus 
calyx,  supporting  with  its  beak  a  leaf  of  lotus  which 
formed  the  pricket-receptacle.  These  objects,  though 
finely  modelled  and  skilfully  cast,  lose  much  of  their 
interest  owing  to  their  wearisome  uniformity.  It  is 

1  See  Appendix,  note  1 8. 

139 


JAPAN 

in  the  casting  of  pedestal  lamps  (toro)  that  greatest 
progress  was  made.  Here  much  beauty  of  form  is 
found  with  elaborate  decoration,  both  incised  and  in 
relief.  The  pedestal  lamp  had  long  been  an  essential 
article  of  temple  paraphernalia,  and  from  a  celebrated 
octagonal  lantern  preserved  at  the  temple  Todai-ji  it 
is  learned  that,  already  in  the  twelfth  century,  Japanese 
artists  had  conceived,  or  received,  the  idea  of  castings 
a  jour  with  high-relief  decoration  suspended  in  the 
network.  But  the  splendid  series  of  fbrb  (pedestal 
lamp)  cast  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  the  Yedo 
era  show  a  remarkable  development  of  artistic  and 
technical  skill,  every  variety  of  decoration  being  used 
successfully  for  their  ornamentation  —  decoration  in 
sunken  panels,  decoration  in  high,  low,  and  medium 
relief,  and  decoration  incised.  It  is  commonly  asserted 
that  this  kind  of  work  was  suggested  by  Korean  ex- 
amples. Certainly  there  is  a  broad  difference  between 
the  methods  of  the  Chinese  and  the  Korean  metal- 
caster  :  the  former  confined  himself  entirely  to  scrolls 
and  arabesques  in  low  relief;  the  latter  preferred  high- 
relief  effects  and  modelling  in  accordance  with  natural 
forms.  But  it  is  impossible  to  accept  the  theory  that 
bronzes  brought  from  Korea  to  Japan  by  the  Taiko  s 
forces  at  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  century  were  the 
first  specimens  of  that  nature  ever  seen  by  Japanese 
artists,  for  in  the  temple  Hokke-ji  there  are  preserved 
two  bronzes  of  the  year  1325,  copied  accurately  from 
a  well-known  form  of  Chinese  celadon  vase  having 
peony  scrolls  in  relief.  These  make  it  clear  that 
although  the  fashion  of  bronze-casting  in  Japan  may 
have  derived  a  marked  impulse  from  contact  with 
examples  of  Korean  workmanship  in  the  time  of  the 
Taiko,  an  entirely  new  style  was  not  suggested  by  that 

140 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

event.  Associated  with  the  fine  castings  then  made 
is  the  name  of  Jiyemon  Yasuteru  of  the  Nakaya 
family,  who  is  commonly  but  erroneously  supposed 
to  have  been  the  first  in  Japan  to  decorate  bronzes 
with  designs  in  high  relief,  taking  for  motives  flowers, 
birds,  figure-subjects,  dragons,  etc.  The  Taiko  be- 
stowed on  him  the  art  distinction  of  tenka  ichi  (first 
under  the  sun),  exempted  him  from  taxation  and  gave 
him  the  title,  Dewa  no  Daijo.  It  is  to  the  experts  of 
this  family  that  Japan  owes  the  beautiful  bronzes 
of  the  Tokugawa  mortuary  shrines  in  Yedo  (Tokyo) 
and  Nikko.  Jiyemon  Yasuteru's  great-grandson, 
Jiyemon  lyetsugu,  cast  the  bronzes  for  the  mausoleum 
of  lyemitsu,  the  third  Tokugawa  Shbgun  in  1651,  as 
his  father,  Jiyemon  Yasuiye,  had  cast  those  for  the 
shrine  of  lyeyasu,  and  every  representative  of  the 
family  down  to  Kameyama  Yasutomo,  whose  son 
is  now  working  in  Kyoto,  was  honoured  with  an 
official  title,  whether  Dewa  no  Daijo  or  Ise  no 
Daijb  or  Tamato  no  Daijo.  Some  of  the  choicest 
work  of  these  experts  is  seen  in  reliquaries,  and  a 
better  idea  of  their  skill  may  be  gathered  from  the 
accompanying  plates  than  from  any  verbal  description. 
Two  features  may  be  mentioned,  however,  since  no 
picture  can  do  more  than  suggest  them ;  namely,  the 
fine  texture  of  the  metal  and  the  beautiful  patina 
it  develops  in  the  course  of  years.  This  question  of 
patina  will  be  referred  to  in  future  pages. 

Towards  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century  an- 
other new  departure  was  made  :  bronze-casters  turned 
their  attention  to  objects  for  use  in  private  houses. 
Hitherto  they  have  been  seen  devoting  their  best 
efforts  to  work  of  a  religious  character  ;  they  now 
began  to  cast  alcove-ornaments,  flower-vases,  and 

141 


JAPAN 

censers  for  the  tea-clubs  as  well  as  for  the  public  in 
general.      Such  objects  were  not  manufactured  for  the 
first  time  at  so  late  a  date  as  the  seventeenth  century. 
Splendid    examples  in    iron,  in  silver,  and    in  other 
metals  had  been  chiselled  in  previous  eras  by  sculptors 
of  sword-furniture.      But  the  works  referred  to  here 
are  bronze.      Not  until  a  comparatively  recent  date 
did  the  art  of  casting  that  metal  become  so  refined 
and  delicate  that  its  products  began  to  rank  with  the 
forged  and  chiselled  works  of  silversmiths  and  chis- 
ellers  of  sword-furniture   (to  be  spoken  of  presently). 
Some  authorities   maintain    that   "  parlour   bronzes " 
were  first  manufactured  by  Nakayama  Sh5yeki,  popu- 
larly called  Yqjuro,  an  armourer  of  Takata  in  Echigo, 
who  settled  in  Kyoto  in    1573,  and  was  equally  suc- 
cessful in  chiselling  iron  and  in  casting  bronze.     Cer- 
tainly    Shoyeki's     descendants    were    highly    skilled 
bronze-casters.     But  no  authenticated  casting  of  his 
survives,  and  it  is  consequently  usual  to  speak  of  a 
female  expert,  Kame,  of  Nagasaki  (1661  to  1690),  as 
the  pioneer  of  this  kind  of  work.      By  some  authori- 
ties, generally  well  informed,  the  great  error  has  been 
committed  of  attributing   to   Kame  the  first  use  of 
the  cire-perdue  process,  which,  as  the  reader  knows, 
had  been    commonly  employed   by  Japanese  metal- 
casters  for  many  centuries  before  her  time.     The  fact 
is  that  the  excellence  of  Kame's  modelling,  —  she  was 
especially  noted  for  censers  in  the  form  of  a  quail,  — 
the  fine  surface  of  her  bronze  and  the  clean  sharpness 
of  her  casting,  attracted  so  much  attention  that  her 
methods  were  regarded  as  a  new  departure.     Another 
common  error  is  to  say  that  Kame's  era  was  immedi- 
ately antecedent  to   that  of  Seimin,   a   bronze-caster 
whose    name    is    known   to    all    Western    collectors. 

142 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

Seimin's  date  was  fully  a  century  subsequent  to  that 
of  Kame.  He  was  born  in  Nagasaki  in  1769,  and 
though,  before  he  moved  to  Yedo  in  1805,  he  doubt- 
less studied  the  methods  which  Kame  and  her  father, 
Tokuye,  practised  so  successfully  in  Genya-machi  in 
Nagasaki,  it  does  not  appear  that  he  gained  any 
distinction  until,  having  undergone  a  course  of  train- 
ing in  the  workshop  of  an  urn-caster  in  Yedo,  he 
settled  in  the  Kameido  suburb  and  devoted  himself 
to  producing  flower-vases,  censers,  and  alcove-orna- 
ments. Seimin  had  five  pupils,  Toun,  Masatsune, 
Teijo,  Somin,  and  Keisai,  and  by  this  group  of  artists 
many  brilliant  works  were  turned  out,  their  general 
features  being  that  the  motives  were  naturalistic,  that 
the  quality  of  the  metal  was  exceptionally  fine,  that 
modelling  in  high  relief  was  most  successfully  em- 
ployed, and  that,  in  addition  to  beautifully  clean 
castings  obtained  by  highly  skilled  use  of  the  cera-per- 
duta  process,  the  chisel  was  employed  to  impart  deli- 
cacy and  finish  to  the  design.  Seimin  preferred  the 
golden  coloured  bronze,  Sentoku,  to  all  other  alloys, 
and  his  specialty  was  the  modelling  of  tortoises,  just 
as  Kame's  reputation  rests  chiefly  on  her  censers  in 
the  shape  of  quails,  and  Toun  is  regarded  as  one  of 
the  greatest  casters  of  dragons  that  Japan  ever  pos- 
sessed. Seimin  did  not  work  for  the  general  market : 
he  aimed  at  producing  chefs-d'ceuvres  only,  whereas 
the  most  renowned  of  his  pupils  showed  more  of  the 
mercantile  instinct.  Masatsune,  a  slow  and  infinitely 
painstaking  artist,  shared  Seimin's  exclusive  views,  as 
did  also  Keisai  and  Somin  ;  but  Teijo,  though  much 
of  his  work  is  not  inferior  to  that  of  Masatsune,  often 
aimed  at  quantity  rather  than  quality.  These  six  men 
gave  exceptional  eclat  to  the  first  half  of  the  present 


JAPAN 

century.  Not  less  expert  were  their  contemporaries 
Suwara  Yasugoro  (art  name  Zenriusai  Gido),  Takusai, 
and  Hotokusai.  Gido  excelled  in  casting  alcove- 
ornaments  in  the  form  of  the  Dog  of  Fo  (shishi), 
figures  of  Hotei,  the  Genius  Gama,  and  such  things! 
Takusai,  who  worked  in  Sado,  produced  only  small 
objects,  chiefly  paper-weights,  pen-rests  and  other 
desk-furniture,  imparting  to  them  a  beautiful  patina  ; 
and  Hotokusai  affected  designs  in  medium  relief 
which  he  cast  and  chiselled  admirably. 

It  is  often  said  that  after  the  era  of  the  above  ten 
masters,  the  last  of  whom,  Somin,  ceased  to  work  in 
1871,  no  bronzes  comparable  with   theirs  were  cast. 
That  is  an  error.      Between  1875  and   l879>  some  of 
the  finest  bronzes  -  -  probably  the  very  finest  of  their 
kind  —  ever  produced  in  Japan  were  turned  out  by  a 
group  of  experts  working  in  combination  under  the 
firm-name  "Sansei-sha."      Started  by    two    brothers, 
Oshima  Katsujiro  (art  name  Joun)  and  Oshima  Yasu- 
taro   (art  name    Shokaku)    in    1875,   tm's   association 
secured  the  services  of  a  number  of  skilled  chisellers 
of  sword-furniture  who  had  lost  their  metier  owing  to 
the  abolition  of  the  sword-wearing  custom.     Nothing 
could  surpass  the  delicacy  of  the  works  executed  in 
the  Sansei-sha's  atelier  at  Kobinata  in  the  Ushigome 
quarter  of  Toky5.      Unfortunately   such  productions 
were  above  the  standard  of  the  customers  for  whom 
they    were    intended.       Foreign    buyers,    who    alone 
stood  in  the  market  at  that  time,  failed  to  distinguish 
the   fine  and  costly  bronzes  of  Joun,   Shokaku,  and 
their  colleagues  from  cheap  imitations  that  soon  began 
to  compete  with  them,  so  that  ultimately  the  Sansei- 
sha   had  to  be  closed.      This    page    in    the    modern 
history  of  Japan's  bronzes  needs  little  alteration  to  be- 

144 


.3UTAT2 

I  I 

ni^  BvaQ  srfl  WvSnO    (.asrfoni  9  H>9\  8  trigisri  ,booW) 
il-ujluioJi  te  bsviaaail 


STATUE. 
(See  page  112.) 

(Wood,  height  5  feet  9  inches.)    One  of  the  Deva  Kings,  by  Jokaku,  a  pupil  of  Unkei. 
Preserved  at  Kofuku-ji. 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

come  true  of  her  applied  art  in  general.  Foreign 
demand  showed  so  little  discrimination  that  experts, 
finding  it  impossible  to  obtain  adequate  remuneration 
for  high-class  work,  were  obliged  to  abandon  the 
field  altogether  or  to  lower  their  standard  to  the  level 
of  common  appreciation,  or  to  have  recourse  to 
forgeries.  Joun  has  produced,  and  is  thoroughly 
capable  of  producing,  bronzes  at  least  equal  to  the 
best  of  Seimin's  masterpieces,  yet  he  has  often  been 
induced  to  put  Seimin's  name  on  objects  for  the  sake 
of  attracting  buyers  that  attach  more  value  to  cachet 
than  to  quality.  Even  in  the  manufacture  of  the 
beautiful  golden-patina  bronze  (ki-sentoku)  for  which 
Seimin  was  famous,  Joun  shows  no  inferiority.  His 
vases  are  generally  of  medium  size  with  decoration  in 
high  relief, — carp  swimmingin  water,  sprays  of  flowers, 
mythological  beings,  and  so  on.  His  pupil  Nogami 
Yataro  (art  name  Riuki)  is  a  scarcely  less  skilled 
caster,  especially  clever  in  modelling  insects  and 
tortoises  in  Seimin's  style. 

Among  modern  bronze-casters  the  names  of  Suzuki 
Chokichi,  Okazaki  Sessei,  Hasegawa  Kumazo,  Kanaya 
Gorosaburo,  and  Tomi  Yeisuke,  in  conjunction  with 
those  mentioned  above,  take  rank  as  masters  of  their 
art  and  perpetuate  its  best  traditions.  Suzuki  Choki- 
chi has  the  title  of  Gigei-in,  or  expert  to  the  Imperial 
Court.  He  has  emerged  from  the  days  of  false  stan- 
dards when  he  manufactured  some  pieces  remembered 
by  him  to-day  with  shame  —  notably  a  huge  censer 
now  in  the  possession  of  the  South  Kensington  Mu- 
seum, a  type  of  the  meretricious  confused  style  often 
adopted  by  Japanese  artists  in  obedience  to  their 
mistaken  conception  of  Western  taste  —  and  he  now 
casts  bronzes  that  comply  with  the  pure  canons  of 

VOL.    VII. IO  i  A  r 


JAPAN 

Japanese    art,    where    the    naturalistic    modelling    is 
always  duly  subordinated  to  the  decorative  design. 

In  connection  with  the  name  of  Okazaki  Sessei,  a 
special  kind  of  casting  should  be  mentioned.  The 
tomb  of  lyeyasu,  first  Tokugawa  Shogun,  at  the 
Shiba  mausolea  is  approached  by  a  magnificent  bronze 
gate  the  doors  of  which  are  solid  castings  with  large 
medallion  ornaments  moulded  in  relief  in  a  field  of 
delicately  traced  diapers.  This  grand  specimen  of 
bronze-casting  is  known  in  Japan  as  Chosen  Karakanemon 
(the  Korean  bronze  gate),  in  recognition  of  the  fact 
that  the  panels  were  brought  from  Korea  among  the 
spoils  taken  by  the  Tai&o's  troops.  No  panels  of 
comparable  magnitude  are  found  in  any  other  mau- 
soleum of  the  Tokugawa,  and  the  plain  inference, 
supported  by  traditions  and  endorsed  by  modern 
bronze-workers,  is  that  a  casting  of  the  kind  was 
beyond  the  capacity  of  Japanese  experts  in  the  seven- 
teenth and  eighteenth  centuries.  Okazaki  Sessei  en- 
joys the  distinction  of  being  the  first  to  accomplish 
such  work.  In  1890  he  cast  two  magnificent  door- 
panels,  their  height  7.2  feet,  their  width  4.5  feet,  and 
their  decorative  designs  ascending  and  descending 
dragons  (agari-riu  and  kudari-riu)  modelled  in  high 
relief,  the  former  rising  from  waves,  the  latter  emerg- 
ing from  clouds.  The  casting  of  such  large  panels  is 
regarded  as  a  most  difficult  tour-de-force.  Many  other 
beautiful  works  in  bronze  have  emerged  from  Sessei's 
hands,  —  an  eagle  in  the  act  of  alighting,  its  outspread 
wings  measuring  seven  feet  across  ;  a  figure  (8.7  feet 
high)  of  one  of  the  Heavenly  Kings  trampling  on  a 
dragon,  and  other  fine  conceptions.  He  is  now 
engaged  on  a  colossal  figure,  thirty-three  feet  high, 
of  the  great  Buddhist  teacher,  Nichiren,  which  is  to 

146 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

be  set  up  in  a  temple  at  Hakata.  Of  Hasegawa 
Kumazo  there  is  not  much  to  be  said.  He  follows 
the  fashions  of  Seimin  and  Toun,  and  many  of  his 
pieces  are  not  at  all  inferior  to  the  best  works  of 
those  artists,  but  he  has  never  been  induced  to  forge 
the  cachet  of  any  of  the  old  masters. 

Occidental  influence  has  been  felt,  of  course,  in 
the  field  of  modern  Japanese  bronze-casting.  At  a 
School  of  Art  officially  established  in  Tokyo  in  1873 
under  the  direction  of  Italian  teachers,  —  a  school 
which  owed  its  signal  failure  partly  to  the  incompe- 
tence and  intemperate  behaviour  of  some  of  the  for- 
eign professors,  partly  to  a  strong  renaissance  of  pure 
Japanese  classicism,  —  one  of  the  few  accomplish- 
ments successfully  taught  was  that  of  modelling  in 
plaster  and  chiselling  in  marble  after  Occidental 
methods.1  Marble  statues  are  out  of  place  in  the 
wooden  buildings  as  well  as  in  the  parks  of  Japan, 
and  even  plaster  busts  or  groups,  though  less  incongru- 
ous, have  not  yet  found  favour.  Hence  the  skill 
undoubtedly  possessed  by  several  graduates  of  the 
defunct  Art  School  —  notably  by  Mr.  Ogura  Sqjiro  — 
has  to  be  devoted  chiefly  to  a  subordinate  purpose, 
namely,  the  fashioning  of  models  for  metal-casters. 
To  this  combination  of  modellers  in  European  style 
and  metal-workers  of  such  force  as  Suzuki  Chokichi 
and  Okazaki  Sessei,  Japan  owes  various  memorial 
bronzes  and  likeness  effigies  which  are  gradually 
finding  a  place  in  her  parks,  her  museums,  her  shrines, 
or  her  private  houses.  There  is  here  little  departure 
from  the  well-trodden  paths  of  Europe.  Studies  in 
drapery,  prancing  steeds,  ideal  poses,  heads  with 
fragments  of  torsos  attached  (in  extreme  violation  of 

1  See  Appendix,  note  19. 

H7 


JAPAN 

true  art),  crouching  beasts  of  prey,  —  all  the  stereo- 
typed styles  are  reproduced.  The  imitation  is  excel- 
lent. That  is  all  that  can  yet  be  said,  though  some  of 
these  works  suggest  that  Japanese  artists  will  by-and- 
by  attain  distinction  in  the  new  field. 

The  reader  will  not  have  failed  to  observe  that 
whereas,  in  speaking  of  the  early  developments  of 
sculpture  in  Japan,  it  has  not  been  possible  to  draw  a 
clear  line  between  the  carver  of  wood  and  the  caster 
of  bronze,  the  latter  has  chiefly  figured  in  subsequent 
pages  of  the  story.  It  is,  in  truth,  often  difficult  to 
distinguish  them  so  far  as  their  place  in  the  records 
of  sculpture  is  concerned.  The  bronze-caster  some- 
times made  his  own  models  in  wax,  sometimes  chis- 
elled them  in  wood,  and  sometimes  had  recourse  to 
the  aid  of  the  wood-carver.  So,  too,  in  modern 
times,  the  best  wood-sculptors  of  the  era — as  Mitsu- 
boshi  Riuun  and  Takamura  Koun  —  lend  their  chisels 
to  carve  models  for  metal-casters,  just  as  pictorial  artists 
like  Hashimoto  Gaho,  Kawabata  Giyokusho,  and 
Nomura  Bunkyo,  paint  subjects  to  be  copied  by  gold- 
smiths and  enamellers.  These  interactions  are  some- 
times recorded,  sometimes  ignored  by  the  Japanese 
themselves,  who  appear  to  have  always  attached 
more  importance  to  the  result  than  to  the  processes 
by  which  it  was  reached.  There  is,  however,  a 
certain  field  of  work  where  the  wood-carver  stands 
alone,  namely,  architectural  decoration  for  interiors. 

The  Buddhist  temple  buildings  of  Japan  in  ancient 
times,  though  their  architectural  outlines  were  grace- 
ful and  imposing,  had  nothing  of  the  elaborate  deco- 
ration which  characterises  the  sacred  edifices  of 
subsequent  centuries.  Thus  the  temple  Horiu-ji, 
reconstructed  in  the  eighth  century,  while  in  many 

148 


BRONZE-CASTING,     ETC. 

respects  a  beautiful  model,  was  without  sculptured 
decoration  in  the  interior,  the  only  features  that  re- 
lieved its  simplicity  being  dragons  coiled  round  the 
four  pillars  supporting  the  eaves  of  the  third  storey, 
and  mural  paintings.  This  comparatively  plain  struc- 
ture offers  a  marked  contrast  to  the  wealth  of  decora- 
tive work  which,  in  such  buildings  as  the  mausolea 
of  Nikko  and  Shiba,  the  later  temple  of  Kyoto  and 
many  of  the  mediaeval  castles,  astonishes  and  delights 
foreign  visitors,  and  will  always  be  classed  among  the 
most  attractive  achievements  of  artistic  conception 
and  technical  skill  that  the  world  possesses.  It  is 
with  these  specimens  of  wood-carving  that  Japanese 
sculpture  is  chiefly  associated  in  the  mind  of  Occi- 
dental students,  and  there  would  be  much  interest  in 
determining  the  exact  date  and  nature  of  the  impulse 
that  led  architects  to  depart  from  the  comparatively 
austere  precedents  of  early  eras.  Buddhism  itself  does 
not  supply  an  explanation.  It  is  true  that  from  the 
first  day  of  its  advent  in  Japan,  Buddhism  imparted  to 
religious  observances  many  elements  of  splendour  and 
richness  which  were  entirely  absent  from  the  Shinto 
ceremonial.  The  gorgeous  vestments  of  the  priests ; 
the  glowing  radiance  of  the  altar  and  its  furniture ; 
the  elaborate  beauty  of  the  temple  utensils ;  the  im- 
pressive majesty  of  the  monster  images  and  the  glory 
of  the  multitudinous  smaller  idols  with  their  mys- 
terious attributes  and  varied  aspect ;  the  mystic  in- 
comprehensibleness  of  the  sutras,  and  the  sensuous 
solemnity  of  the  services  of  chaunted  litany  and  float- 
ing incense,  —  all  these  things  stood  in  sharp  contrast 
to  the  ascetic  simplicity  and  unbending  severity  of  the 
Shinto  cult.  But  the  Buddhist  temple  itself,  though 
its  architects  had  free  recourse  to  the  artist's  brush  for 

149 


JAPAN 

painting  door  panels,  ceiling  coffers,  and  even  walls, 
and  to  the  lacquerer's  hand  for  decorating  pillars  and 
beams  with  golden  hues  and  glowing  mother-of-pearl, 
did  not  at  first  excel  the  Shinto  shrine  in  the  matter 
of  ornamentation  so  much  as  it  was  itself  excelled  by 
the  temples  and  mausolea  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
In  these  a  profuse  wealth  of  architectural  decoration 
gave  almost  boundless  scope  to  the  genius  of  the 
painter,  the  sculptor,  the  lacquerer,  and  the  worker  in 
metals.  The  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  is  gen- 
erally regarded  as  the  approximate  date  of  this  new 
departure,  and  undoubtedly  the  taste  for  grandeur  and 
magnificence  fostered  by  Hideyoshi,  the  Taiko,  was 
largely  responsible.  Japanese  annalists,  indeed,  at- 
tribute to  Nobunaga,  Hideyoshi's  captain,  the  first  idea 
of  employing  sculpture  for  the  architectural  decora- 
tion of  interiors,  and  are  even  so  precise  as  to  fix  the 
very  incident  that  marked  the  innovation,  namely,  No- 
bunaga's  employment  of  two  wood-carvers,  Mataemon 
and  Yuzayemon,  to  chisel  dragons  upon  the  pillars  of 
a  pagoda  erected  by  him.  But  when  it  is  considered 
that  within  a  very  few  years  of  Nobunaga's  death 
(1582),  the  magnificent  ornamentation  of  the  temple 
Nishi-Hongwanji  in  Kyoto  was  completed,  and  that 
of  the  mausoleum  of  lyeyasu  at  Nikko  was  com- 
menced, and  when  it  is  further  considered  that  noth- 
ing in  the  whole  range  of  Japanese  decorative  art 
reaches  a  higher  level  of  beautiful  and  skilled  elabo- 
ration than  the  pictorial  and  sculptured  work  of 
these  buildings,  strong  doubts  are  suggested  whether 
an  idea  which  had  its  birth  in  the  second  half  of  the 
sixteenth  century  could  have  ripened  to  full  maturity 
by  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth.  It  seems  more 
reasonable  to  conclude  that  the  great  carver  Hidari 

150 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

Jingoro  (left-handed  Jingoro),  who  flourished  from 
about  1590  to  1634,  and  who  is  counted  the  prince 
of  Japanese  decorative  sculptors  (miya-shl  or  miyabori- 
shi,  as  distinguished  from  busshi,  the  sculptor  of 
images),  stood,  in  the  natural  order  of  evolution,  at 
the  head  of  a  line  of  artists  whose  work,  though  for 
lack  of  opportunity  it  made  no  memorable  display, 
helped  to  educate  a  taste  for  architectural  decoration 
and  to  prepare  the  way  for  enterprises  which  gave 
full  scope  to  the  genius  of  Jingoro  and  his  successors. 
There  is,  however,  no  certainty  about  these  matters. 
Broad  limits  only  can  be  fixed.  Thus,  while  it  is 
known  that  the  celebrated  Silver  Pavilion  ( Ginkaku-jfy 
built  by  Yoshimasa  in  1479,  and  the  even  more  re- 
nowned Golden  Pavilion  (Kinkakurji)  of  Yoshimitsu 
(constructed  in  1397)  were  entirely  without  sculp- 
tured decoration,  it  is  also  known  that  the  temple 
Nishi-Hongwan-ji,  erected  in  1592,  and  the  mau- 
soleum of  lyeyasu  at  Nikko  (commenced  in  1616) 
have  an  unrivalled  richness  of  such  ornamentation. 
It  should  be  explained  clearly,  again,  that  reference  is 
not  made  here  to  architectural  applications  of  pictorial 
art.  From  very  early  times  the  services  of  the  painter 
had  been  placed  at  the  disposal  of  the  architect. 
Indeed,  the  reader  will  have  learned  from  what  has 
already  been  written  of  Japanese  pictorial  art,  that  the 
painter,  whether  his  picture  was  to  hang  in  an  alcove 
or  to  find  its  place  on  the  walls,  sliding  doors,  or 
screens  of  an  interior,  always  regarded  his  work  as  the 
decoration  of  a  panel,  and  was  careful  to  observe  the 
limitations  as  to  chiaroscuro  and  linear  perspective  that 
separate  applied  art  from  realistic.  The  oldest  sur- 
viving example  of  pictorial  art  employed  for  decora- 
tive purposes  which  dates  from  the  eighth  century  may 


JAPAN 

be  seen  in  the  ancient  temple  Horu-ji  at  Nara,  where 
the  walls  of  the  principal  hall  have  distemper  paint- 
ings, described  as  follows  by  the  late  Dr.  Anderson  in 
one  of  the  official  catalogues  of  the  British  Museum:  — 

The  central  figure  represents  a  Buddha  seated  upon  a 
lotus-throne  which  is  supported  by  a  number  of  "crouching 
dwarfs.  The  aspect  of  the  Divinity  and  the  position  of  the 
hands  (right  hand  raised,  both  palms  directed  forwards)  are 
in  accordance  with  the  image  of  Amitabha  described  in  a 
well-known  Japanese  work,  "  Nichi-gwatsu  To-myo-Butsu." 
On  each  side  of  the  Buddha  stands  a  Bodhisattva  with  hands 
clasped  in  prayer.  In  the  foreground  are  two  martial  figures 
of  Deva  Kings,  and  between  them  two  conventional  lions. 
Four  other  persons  appear  behind  the  Trinity,  two  of  them 
having  the  aspect  of  Deva  Kings,  and  two  that  of  Arharts, 
but  the  details  have  become  so  indistinct  from  the  effects  of 
time  and  exposure  that  identification  is  very  difficult.  .  .  . 
The  half-obliterated  remains  still  manifest  the  touch  of  a 
practised  hand,  and  in  colouring  and  composition  bear  no 
small  resemblance  to  the  works  of  the  old  Italian  masters. 
The  painting  is  probably  the  oldest  specimen  of  Buddhist 
or  other  pictorial  art  extant  in  Japan,  and  has,  moreover,  a 
special  interest  as  being  one  of  the  very  rare  examples  of  the 
application  of  a  coloured  design  directly  to  the  surface  of  the 
plaster  wall  (the  ordinary  mural  decoration  being  usually 
executed  on  paper  which  is  afterwards  affixed  to  the  wall  by 
paste).  It  is  not,  however,  a  true  fresco. 

It  was  through  Buddhism,  then,  that  the  Japanese 
learned  the  use  of  applied  pictorial  art  for  purposes  of 
architectural  decoration,  and  they  employed  it  freely 
though  not  in  the  sense  of  fresco-painting,  for  they 
never  understood  the  art  of  mural  painting  upon 
'freshly  laid  plaster  lime  with  colour  capable  of  resist- 
ing the  caustic  action  of  the  lime.  They  attained 
much  proficiency  in  the  preparation  and  application 

152 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

of  wall  plaster,  colouring  it  with  delicate  taste,  em- 
ploying many  dexterous  devices  to  vary  its  surface, 
and  moulding  it  into  diapers,  arabesques,  and  other 
designs  of  much  beauty.  But  painting  with  colour 
mixed  with  lime  remained  unknown  to  them,  and 
when  it  is  remembered  that  this  method  was  in  use 
in  Egypt  from  the  very  remotest  era  of  that  country's 
monumental  history,  that  it  passed  thence  to  Italy  and 
Greece,  that  its  extraordinary  durability  was  under- 
stood as  early  as  the  days  of  Vitruvius,  and  that  traces 
of  Grecian  influence  are  plainly  discernible  in  Japan- 
ese art,  the  fact  that  such  an  aid  to  architectural 
decoration  did  not  become  familiar  to  the  peoples  of 
the  Far  East  is  certainly  curious.  It  would  seem, 
too,  that  the  distemper  painting  at  Horiu-ji  was  an 
exotic  method  which  never  took  root  in  Japan,  for 
only  two  other  examples  of  similar  work  are  known 
to  exist. 

The  Golden  and  Silver  Pavilions  alluded  to  above 
offer  good  illustrations  of  the  point  to  which  interior 
decoration  had  been  carried  before  the  sixteenth 
century.  The  former  had  three  storeys.  The  lowest 
was  quite  plain,  its  milk-white  timbers  and  unadorned 
walls  forming  a  chaste  setting  for  gilt  statuettes  of 
deities  and  an  effigy  of  Yoshimitsu  himself,  which 
formed  its  only  furniture.  The  ceiling  of  the  second 
storey  was  painted  with  angels  (tennin)  encircled  by  a 
border  of  floral  scroll.  The  third  storey  was  com- 
pletely gilt,  walls,  floor,  ceiling,  and  balcony  being 
covered  with  gold  foil.1  The  Silver  Pavilion,  or,  to 
speak  more  correctly,  one  of  its  associated  buildings, 
showed  a  partial  approach  to  the  decorative  style 
of  later  eras.  The  walls  had  Indian-ink  sketches  — • 

1  See  Appendix,  note  20. 

153 


JAPAN 

painted  not  direct  on  the  plaster  but  on  its  paper 
covering  —  and  the  sliding  doors  were  decorated  with 
figure  subjects,  landscapes,  river-scenes,  and  birds.  But 
there  was  no  sculpture,  whereas  the  State  apartments 
of  the  great  temple  Nishi  Hongwan-ji  in  Kyoto, 
built  at  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  century,  show  a 
stage  of  architectural  decoration  almost  on  a  level 
with  that  reached  by  the  designers  of  the  mausolea 
at  Nikko  and  Shiba  (Tokyo),  and  show  also  that  there 
devolved  on  the  sculptor  of  that  era  duties  scarcely 
less  important  than  those  of  the  painter.  Each  room 
is  an  independent  study,  all  details  subordinated  to  a 
general  design.  Thus  in  one  chamber  the  sliding 
doors  and  the  lower  mural  spaces  are  covered  with 
paintings  of  peacocks  and  cherry-trees  in  bloom,  while 
the  upper  mural  spaces  are  occupied  by  massive 
wooden  panels  (ramma^  boldly  carved  in  open-work 
designs  of  phoenixes  and  wild  camellia,  which  stand 
out  with  realistic  effect  against  the  dimly  transmitted 
light  of  adjoining  chambers  or  corridors.  In  another 
room  the  pictorial  decoration  takes  the  form  of 
Chinese  landscapes  on  a  gold  ground,  and  the  upper 
parts  of  the  walls  have  panels  carved  in  a  design  of 
wistaria.  The  fashion  of  the  decoration  may  be 
sufficiently  inferred  from  these  descriptions  — pictorial 
below,  sculptured  above.  If  to  these  details  a  coffered 
ceiling  be  added,  each  coffer  enclosing  a  painted  or 
carved  panel,  a  general  idea  is  obtained  of  the  archi- 
tectural decoration  of  the  sixteenth  century  as  applied 
to  interiors. 

Twenty-five  years  later,  the  mausoleum  of  lyeyasu, 
the  first  Tokugawa  Shogun,  was  erected.  There,  in 
memory  of  this  "  Orient-illuminating  Prince  "  (Tosho- 
gu),  all  the  decorative  and  architectural  resources  of 

154 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

the  time  were  employed  to  construct  a  mortuary 
chapel  at  the  dedication  of  which,  in  1617,  an 
Imperial  Envoy  presided  and  the  Sutra  of  the  Lotus 
of  the  Law  was  recited  ten  thousand  times  by  a  mul- 
titude of  priests.  This  mausoleum,  together  with  the 
chapel  in  memory  of  the  third  Tokugawa  Shogun, 
lyemitsu,  also  at  Nikko,  and  the  mausolea  of  the 
other  potentates  of  the  same  line  at  Shiba  and  Uyeno 
in  Tokyo,  are  certainly  among  the  most  wonderful 
efforts  of  decorative  art  that  the  world  possesses. 
Words  are  quite  inadequate  to  convey  a  just  idea 
of  the  combined  glory  and  elegance  of  the  structures, 
both  externally  and  internally.  Innumerable  motives 
are  represented,  in  painting,  in  sculpture,  in  lacquer 
and  in  metal  work,  and  though  the  details  are  so 
varied  and  multitudinous  that  their  description  would 
fill  a  large  volume,  the  arrangements  and  congruity 
are  so  perfect  that  no  sense  of  confusion  or  bewilder- 
ment is  ever  suggested.  Every  available  spot  or  space 
has  some  feature  of  beauty  —  coffered  ceiling,  em- 
bossed column,  sculptured  surface,  carved  bracket 
and  beam,  silver-capped  pendant,  gold-sheathed  pillar- 
neck  and  beam-crossing,  gilded  roof-crest  and  termi- 
nal, painted  mural  space,  lacquered  door,  recesses 
crowded  with  elaborate  carvings,  gates  rich  with 
sculptured  diapers  and  arabesques  and  deeply  chis- 
elled panels  —  the  catalogue  is  endless.  Sometimes, 
as  in  the  Haiden  of  the  Tosh~o-gu  mausoleum  at  Nikko, 
the  ceiling  is  divided  into  innumerable  coffers,  each 
filled  with  the  minutest  decoration,  the  whole  form- 
ing a  collection  of  choice  miniatures  in  rich  frames. 
Sometimes,  as  at  the  temple  Nanzen-ji  in  Kyoto, 
a  ceiling  sixteen  hundred  square  feet  in  area  is  painted 
with  one  huge  dragon  in  black  and  gold. 

155 


JAPAN 

The  fertility  of  the  minds  that  designed  these 
decorations,  the  skill  of  the  hands  that  executed 
them,  will  be  as  memorable  a  thousand  years  hence 
as  they  are  to-day.  It  has  sometimes  been  alleged 
that  the  designer  and  the  sculptor  were  generally 
two,  the  former  being  the  pictorial  artist,  the  latter 
a  mere  artisan,  ranking  little  higher  than  a  common 
carpenter.  There  are  no  means  of  determining  how 
far  that  dictum  may  be  trusted.  In  the  Occident  the 
name  of  every  one  connected  with  such  works  would 
be  handed  down  for  respectful  remembrance  by  suc- 
ceeding generations ;  but  in  Japan  the  art-artisan  has 
always  been  self-effacing  and  the  nation  has  quietly 
acquiesced  in  his  effacement.  His  work  lives :  that 
is  deemed  sufficient. 

Among  the  sculptors  engaged  upon  the  splendid 
mausolea  of  the  Tokugawa  Shoguns  and  other  archi- 
tectural achievements  of  the  seventeenth  century, 
which  was  certainly  the  golden  era  of  decorative 
carving,  not  half  a  dozen  names  have  been  preserved. 
At  their  head  stands  Hidari  Jingoro  (left-handed 
Jingoro).  His  very  appellation  indicates  the  scanty 
consideration  extended  to  him.  It  is  as  though  an 
artist  in  America  or  England  should  be  generally 
spoken  of  as  "  Left-handed  Bill "  or  "  Wall-eyed 
Tom."  There  is  nevertheless  an  element  of  justice 
in  the  measure  of  esteem  extended  to  Jingoro  and 
his  fellow-sculptors,  for  although  as  carvers  of  flowers, 
foliage,  and  birds,  they  have  no  superiors  in  other 
lands,  it  is  certain  that  their  representations  of  figure 
subjects  and  animals  would  not  have  won  for  them 
in  Western  countries  greater  renown  than  they  received 
in  Japan. 

Among  the  carvings  that  decorate  the  mausoleum 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

of  lyeyasu  at  Nikko,  for  example,  a  sleeping  cat  and 
two  elephants  are  shown  as  remarkable  specimens  of 
Jingoro's  skill.  He  must  not  be  held  responsible  for 
the  grotesquely  false  shapes  and  proportions  of  the 
elephants :  no  Japanese  artist  has  ever  drawn  an 
elephant  that  resembled  the  real  animal,  and  Jingoro 
merely  followed  designs  by  the  celebrated  painter 
Kano  Tanyu.  But  if  neither  Tanyu  nor  Jingoro 
ever  saw  a  live  elephant  or  had  any  opportunity 
of  studying  its  true  shape,  that  excuse  cannot  be 
pleaded  in  the  case  of  the  cat,  and  it  must  be  frankly 
stated  that  Jingoro's  celebrated  cat  would  never  attract 
admiring  attention  were  it  removed  from  the  panel 
where  it  has  slept  for  nearly  three  centuries  in  a 
bower  of  buds  and  leaves. 

Another  much  belauded  work  from  Jingoro's  chisel 
is  the  Chokushi-mon  (Gate  of  the  Imperial  Envoy)  at 
the  Nishi-Hongwan  temple  in  Kyoto.  On  the 
outer  panels  the  sculptor  has  depicted  figures  of 
Taoist  Rishi ;  on  the  inner,  the  Chinese  sage  who 
washed  his  ear  because  it  had  been  polluted  by  a 
proposal  that  he  should  ascend  the  throne  of  his 
country,  and  the  equally  austere  cowherd  who  quar- 
relled with  the  sage  for  thus  defiling  a  river.  These 
figures  are  not  fine  sculptures :  the  most  benevolent 
critic  cannot  be  blind  to  their  defects.  Yet  on  the 
panels  of  a  gate  every  part  of  which  has  its  place  in  a 
general  scheme  of  decoration,  the  carvings  are  admir- 
able objects.  That  is  the  first  point  to  be  noted  about 
all  the  sculptured  work  in  the  decoration  of  Japanese 
temples  and  mausolea.  Sometimes  the  realistic  illu- 
sion is  complete.  Peonies  glow  with  lusty  life  in  a 
coffer ;  chrysanthemums  raise  slender  tendrils  from  a 
cornice ;  cranes,  wild  fowl,  or  phoenixes  actually  fly 

157 


JAPAN 

from  their  wooden  niches,  and  plum-trees  seem  to 
grow  on  a  panel.  But  the  general  rule  is  that  the 
sculptures  do  not  gain  by  independent  scrutiny.  It 
is  in  their  subordinate  role  that  they  command 
charmed  enthusiasm.  The  statement  is  in  itself  a 
high  tribute  to  the  decorative  genius  of  the  Japanese, 
but  it  involves  also  the  conclusion  that  the  subjective 
element  had  to  be  almost  entirely  abolished  from  the 
work  of  the  sculptor,  and  that  his  highest  success  was 
achieved  when  his  efforts  showed  least  individuality. 

As  to  the  general  character  of  the  designs  chosen 
by  painters  and  sculptors  for  the  adornment  of  these 
temples  and  mausolea,  an  excellent  criticism  is  con- 
tained in  the  introduction  to  Mr.  J.  Conder's  unpub- 
lished work  on  Japanese  architecture  :  — 

Behind  the  general  impression  of  harmony  produced  by 
the  decorated  architecture  as  it  existed  and  still  exists  in  the 
best  examples  of  the  Buddhist  style,  there  is  revealed,  upon 
careful  analysis,  a  combination  of  curiously  incongruous  ele- 
ments. The  weird  and  the  grotesque  are  blended  with  the 
severe  and  the  natural.  Archaic  forms,  which  one  must  follow 
back  to  Indian  creeds  for  their  original  meaning,  are  quaintly 
combined  with  free  and  flowing  natural  forms.  Demons, 
monsters,  and  crude  conventional  representations  of  foreign 
or  imaginary  animals  are  painted  side  by  side  with  the  birds, 
flowers,  and  landscapes  of  the  changing  seasons.  The  sub- 
tle elements  of  wind,  cloud,  water,  and  spray  are  in  one  place 
represented  in  definite  conventional  lines  which  convey  but  a 
vague  idea  of  their  respective  force  and  motive,  and  in  an- 
other place  by  soft  dreamy  touches  and  blurred  effects. 
There  is  everywhere  to  be  traced  the  influence  upon  an 
artistic  Oriental  mind  of  the  beautiful  forms  and  colours  of 
the  mundane  universe,  combined  with  the  external  influence 
upon  his  imagination  of  the  Buddhist  religion,  dictating  awe- 
inspiring  shapes  and  mysterious  symbols  which  he  accepted 
and  depicted  as  a  portion  of  his  superstitious  belief  and 

158 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

homage.  Decoration  was  developed  in  buildings  of  different 
type  in  accordance  with  a  system  by  which  it  was  divided 
into  three  or  four  degrees  of  elaboration,  the  highest  degree 
of  richness  being  reserved  for  the  temples  and  mausolea. 
The  painter's  art  appears  in  the  delicate  forms  and  soft  tints 
of  birds  and  blossoms  cushioned  in  the  white  wood-work  of 
princes'  chambers,  and  it  may  be  seen  also  in  deeper  bolder 
tones,  amid  a  pandemonium  of  saints  and  demons,  sacred 
monsters,  celestial  flowers  and  symbols,  set  in  gilded  and 
lacquered  framing,  adorning  the  gloomy  interior  of  religious 
shrines. 

Colours  were  freely  used  in  these  decorative 
schemes.  Thus,  in  the  sanctuary  of  the  Tosho-gu 
mausoleum  at  Nikko,  wide  fields  of  silver  and  gold, 
occupying  the  lower  parts  of  the  walls,  underlie  beams 
diapered  in  vermilion,  leaf-back  green,  cerulean  blue, 
and  dead  white.  Broad  frieze  spaces  in  deep  rich 
red  are  interrupted  by  oval  medallions  enclosing 
delicately  chiselled  designs  of  birds  and  flowers  picked 
out  with  red,  gold,  green,  blue,  and  touches  of  white. 
Above  these  and  stretching  from  capital  to  capital  of 
the  pillars,  are  formal  diapers  in  green,  red,  and  gold, 
with  intervening  floral  scrolls  in  gold  and  green  on  a 
chocolate-brown  ground  ;  the  pillars,  whose  capitals 
have  belts  of  fern-fronds  in  red,  green,  blue,  and  white, 
and  fillets  of  blue  and  gold,  support  golden  beams, 
and  above  the  latter  rises  an  arched  entablature  pro- 
fusely carved  and  decorated,  and  brilliantly  coloured 
in  all  the  hues  mentioned  above.  Finally,  this 
wealth  of  soft  tints  and  elaborate  fancies  is  separated 
from  the  ceiling  by  a  concave  cornice  uniformly  gilt, 
through  which  runs  horizontally  a  solid  ribbed  beam 
of  noir-mat  lacquer.  The  ceiling  is  coffered  with  a 
framework  in  gold  and  black.  The  coffers,  of 
which  the  ground  colour  is  gold,  have  a  border  of 

159 


JAPAN 

cloud  scroll  in  green,  white,  and  red,  and  the  centre 
of  each  is  occupied  by  an  elliptic  medallion  in  purest 
cerulean  blue,  enclosing  a  golden  dragon  and  having 
for  border  two  narrow  rings  of  white  and  chocolate- 
brown.  This  is  little  more  than  a  mere  catalogue  of 
colours.  It  conveys  not  even  a  shadowy  idea  of  the 
beauty  and  brilliancy  of  such  a  decorative  masterpiece, 
glowing  and  palpitating  with  luxury  of  tint  and  pro- 
fusion of  detail  from  floor  to  architrave,  until  in  the 
ceiling  medallions  the  spectator  seems  to  be  gazing 
into  the  blue  profundity  of  a  sky  where  glittering 
monsters  sweep  through  space.  But  the  reader  will 
gather  even  from  such  an  imperfect  description  some 
notion  of  the  profusion  with  which  colours  and 
sculpture  were  employed  in  the  architectural  decora- 
tion of  interiors.  It  does  not  appear  that  the  Japanese 
artist  had  any  definitely  formulated  theories  about  the 
use  of  colours.  He  does  not  even  seem  to  have  ex- 
plicitly recognised  the  differences  of  primary,  second- 
ary, or  tertiary,  or  to  have  possessed  any  clear  rules 
about  chromatic  equivalents.  Yet  it  would  be  possi- 
ble to  deduce  from  his  practice  many  of  the  princi- 
ples that  are  now  regarded  as  fundamental  in  the 
science  of  Occidental  decorative  art.  Thus  his  idea 
of  distribution  was  so  just  that,  in  using  the  primary 
colours,  he  limited  the  areas  and  quantities  of  their 
application  by  careful  consideration  of  the  total  space 
to  be  decorated,  in  order  that  the  requisite  balance 
and  support  might  be  obtained  by  proportionately 
larger  masses  of  secondary  and  tertiary  tints.  It  may 
be  objected  that  he  neglected  this  principle  in  the 
exterior  decoration  of  some  of  his  sacred  edifices,  as 
the  pagodas  at  Nikko,  for  example,  where  a  massive, 
towering  structure  is  robed  from  base  to  summit  in 

1 60 


(.SI  I   egfiq  992) 
.09  1  1   ,.;  :ntq!ira2     ,3EV9b  s 


srft  ^o  sno  to  (booW) 


IMAGE. 

(See  page  1 1 3.) 
(Wood)  of  one  of  the  twelve  devas.    Sculptured  by  Kokel,  1 1 90.    Preserved  at  Kofuku-JI. 


B  R  O  N  Z  E-C  A  S  T  I  N  G,     ETC. 

vermilion  red.  But  any  criticism  of  that  nature  is 
silenced  at  once  when  these  edifices  are  considered 
with  reference  to  their  environment,  —  a  profusion  of 
green  foliage,  which  effectually  balances  the  primary 
colour  of  the  pagoda.  It  is  found,  also,  on  careful 
examination  of  the  mausolea  at  Shiba,  Uyeno,  and 
Nikko,  that  the  primary  colours  appear  on  the  upper 
parts  of  objects,  the  secondary  and  tertiary  on  the 
lower ;  that  proportion  is  successfully  preserved  be- 
tween the  volumes  of  full  and  low  tones ;  that  the 
art  of  separating  coloured  ornaments  from  fields  of 
contrasting  colour  is  thoroughly  understood  ;  that  the 
solecism  of  mutually  impinging  colours  is  strictly 
avoided ;  that  the  tone  of  ground  colours  is  in  excel- 
lent harmony  with  the  quantity  of  ornament,  and 
that  the  ensemble  presents  that  neutralised  bloom  which 
indicates  perfect  blending  of  tones  and  tints. 

As  already  stated,  there  are  few  records  of  great 
sculptors  connected  with  architectural  or  religious 
carvings  in  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries, 
although  such  remarkable  work  was  accomplished. 
Hidari  Jingoro  died  in  1635.  Among  his  successors 
the  best  remembered  are  Hidari  Eishin  (1632—1700), 
Shoun  ( 1 660-1 705),  Tancho  ( 1630-1 695), and  Hidari 
Katsumasa  (1670-1727).  Other  names  are  included 
in  an  appended  list,  but  the  recorded  number  of 
artists  is  quite  insignificant  when  compared  with  the 
quantity  of  fine  work  executed  from  the  beginning 
of  the  seventeenth  to  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth 
century.  The  subordination  of  the  individual  to 
achievement  is  specially  marked  in  the  field  of  deco- 
rative carvings  for  temples  and  mausolea. 


VOL.    VII. II 


Chapter  V 

VARIOUS   APPLICATIONS    OF  ART 

IN  a  previous  chapter  some  account  has  been  given 
of  the  origin  and  development  of  the  sacred 
mime,  of  its  connection  with  the  bucolic  dance, 
and  of  the  gradual  rise  of  the  den-gaku  and  the 
saru-gaku.  From  the  second  half  of  the  fourteenth 
century,  when  the  Ashikaga  Shogun  Yoshimitsu  ruled 
in  Kyoto,  the  saru-gaku  became  an  almost  necessary 
feature  of  all  social  entertainments  among  the  upper 
classes;  and  in  the  time  of  Yoshimasa  (1449-1472) 
four  families,  Kwanze,  Kamparu,  H5sho,  and  Kongo, 
were  publicly  recognised  as  the  possessors  of  all  the 
best  traditions  and  methods  of  the  mimetic  art.  The 
great  captain,  Oda  Nobunaga,  and  his  still  greater 
contemporary,  Hideyoshi,  the  Taiko,  were  ardent 
patrons  of  the  saru-gaku,  dancing  it  themselves  with 
the  utmost  earnestness.  The  Taiko,  studied  under 
Gosho,  the  master  expert  of  his  era,  and  danced  to 
the  accompaniment  of  a  song  specially  composed  (the 
Akechi-uchi  koya-mode)  in  commemoration  of  his  vic- 
tory over  the  traitorous  slayer  of  Nobunaga.  Thence- 
forth to  be  able  to  take  a  part  in  the  saru-gaku  —  or 
the  No,  as  these  dances  were  usually  called  in  later 
times  —  became  an  absolutely  essential  accomplish- 
ment of  every  feudal  chief,  court  noble,  or  samurai  of 
rank.  It  has  to  be  remembered  that  although  the 
Japanese  are  intensely  fond  of  spectacular  displays, 

162 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

the  public  theatre  did  not  come  into  existence  until 
the  seventeenth  century,  and  never,  until  quite  recent 
times,  was  regarded  as  a  proper  resort  for  the  upper 
classes.  By  way  of  compensation  private  theatri- 
cals had  extensive  vogue,  not  private  theatricals 
in  the  Occidental  sense  of  the  term,  but  mimetic 
dances  representing  historical,  mythological,  poetical, 
and  legendary  scenes,  or  ideal  renderings  of  natural 
phenomena.  Such  were  the  stately  and  picturesque 
no-gaku,  supplemented  by  farcical  interludes  called 
no-kyogen.  From  the  sixteenth  century  the  canons 
of  refined  hospitality  prescribed  that  every  one  with 
aristocratic  pretensions  should  be  able  to  offer  to  his 
guests  an  entertainment  of  that  nature,  or  to  take  part 
in  it  himself  when  bidden  elsewhere.  Nothing  could 
exceed  the  magnificence  of  the  costumes  worn  by  the 
performers  or  the  richness  of  all  the  accessories ; 
and  since  complete  disguise  was  absolutely  essential 
to  the  realistic  effect  of  such  mimes,  the  mask 
possessed  paramount  importance.  Reference  may  be 
made  en  passant  to  a  misconception  endorsed  by  more 
than  one  student  of  Japanese  customs,  namely,  that 
the  use  of  the  mask  in  the  theatre  was  a  habit  in 
Japan  as  it  had  been  in  Greece.  The  mask  in  Japan 
is  not  a  theatrical  adjunct,  its  employment  is  limited 
to  the  sphere  of  mimetic  dances.  The  professional 
actor  never  wears  a  mask  except  for  the  purpose  of 
figuring  in  the  dances  that  often  occupy  the  intervals 
of  the  drama.  It  is  commonly  believed  in  Japan  that 
wooden  masks  were  used  at  times  as  remote  as  the 
seventh  century,  and  that  the  earliest  of  them  repre- 
sented the  features  of  Uzume,  the  divine  danseuse 
whose  spirited  performance  drew  the  Sun  Goddess  from 
her  cave.  But  the  oldest  surviving  specimens  date 

163 


JAPAN 

from  the  ninth,  tenth,  and  twelfth  centuries.  They 
are  preserved  in  a  temple  on  the  sacred  island  of 
Miyajima  (now  called  Itsukushima),  and  they  show 
that  even  in  such  remote  eras  the  sculptor  possessed 
great  skill  in  delineating  the  human  countenance 
under  the  influence  of  emotion.  To  later  eras,  how- 
ever —  the  sixteenth,  seventeenth,  and  eighteenth 
centuries  —  belong  a  wonderful  series  of  masks  which 
constitute  a  special  outcome  of  Japanese  sculpture. 
Every  aristocratic  household  and  every  Buddhist  or 
Shinto  parish  possessed  a  store  of  these  masks.  It  is 
difficult  to  conceive  any  type  of  face,  any  display  of 
passion,  any  exhibition  of  affection,  of  fury,  of  cruelty, 
of  benevolence,  of  voluptuousness,  of  imbecility,  that 
these  masks  do  not  reproduce  with  remarkable  real- 
ism. Japanese  catalogues  set  forth  two  hundred  and 
sixty  masks,  each  of  which  has  a  distinguishing  ap- 
pellation and  is  recognised  as  the  work  of  an 
expert.  The  art  of  the  sculptor  was  not  exercised 
merely  in  modelling  the  features.  His  work  was 
counted  imperfect  unless  he  fashioned  the  mask 
so  that  it  could  be  worn  by  any  one  for  a  lengthy 
period  without  discomfort.  There  can  be  no  doubt 
that  the  great  success  achieved  in  carving  masks  and 
the  moving  effect  of  their  skilled  use  in  association 
with  the  highly  trained  gesticulation  and  posturing, 
the  splendid  costumes  and  the  weird  music  of  the 
saru-gaku  and  the  no-gaku,  exercised  a  potent  influence 
on  the  methods  of  the  professional  actor  of  the 
theatre  proper.  He  did  not  wear  an  artificial  mask, 
but  he  sought  to  mould  his  features  into  a  mask-like 
picture  of  concentrated  emotion,  thus  establishing  a 
vivid  link  between  his  performance  and  the  classic 
mime  of  aristocracy. 

164 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

Masks  carved  by  celebrated  experts  are  among  the 
most  valued  treasures  of  aesthetic  Japan.  They  are 
wrapped  in  silk  and  preserved  in  lacquered  boxes  with 
all  the  care  appropriate  to  fine  works  of  art ;  and  they 
deserve  such  attention,  for  in  this  class  of  sculpture 
Japan  stands  unequalled  and  unapproached  by  any 
other  country.  Miniature  reproductions  of  classic 
types,  carved  in  ivory,  wood,  or  metal,  sometimes 
merely  as  examples  of  skilled  sculpture,  sometimes 
in  groups  of  two  or  more  to  form  netsuke,  —  presently 
to  be  spoken  of,  —  and  sometimes  as  ornaments  for 
sword-furniture,  are  included  in  many  foreign  assem- 
blages of  Japanese  art-objects,  but  the  finest  masks  of 
the  mimetic  dance  have  seldom  come  within  reach 
of  Western  collectors. 

The  names  and  dates  of  celebrated  mask-carvers 
are  these  :  — 

x,.     ,  -  I  tenth  century.     Only  a  few  masks  by  these  ex- 
Y    ,         I       perts  are  extant. 

Bunzo  —  thirteenth  century.     A  Buddhist  priest. 

Hibi  Munetada  (called  Hibi  because  he  worked  at  Hibi 
in  Etchiu)  —  fourteenth  century.  Carved  meagre  faces 
skilfully. 

Echi  Yoshifune  —  fourteenth  century. 

Koushi,  or  Kiyomitsu —  fifteenth  century. 

Shakuzuru  (called  also  Yoshinari  and  Ittosai,  art  name)  — 
fourteenth  century.  Celebrated  for  faces  of  warriors. 

Ishikawa  Riuyemon  Shigemasa  —  fourteenth  century.  Cele- 
brated for  masks  of  women  and  children. 

Tokuwaka  Tadamasa  —  fifteenth  century.  Specially  skilled 
in  planting  hair. 

Sanko  —  fifteenth  century.     A  Buddhist  priest. 

N.  B.  The  above  are  distinguished  as  Jissaku,  or  "  true 
sculptors." 

.65 


JAPAN 

Soami  Hisatsugu — fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries  (said  to 

have  lived  in  the  time  of  Yoshimasa). 
Chigusa  —  sixteenth    century.       Celebrated    for    masks    of 

deities. 

Fukurai  Masatomo  —  fifteenth  century.  Masks  of  old  men. 
Horai  Ujitoki  —  fifteenth  century.  Masks  of  female  faces. 
Haruwaka  Tadatsugu  —  sixteenth  century.  Masks  of  young 

faces. 
Uwo  Hyoye  —  sixteenth  century.     Masks  of  old  men  and 

demons. 

N.  B.     The  above,  from  Soami  to  Uwo,  are  called  the 
"  Six  Sculptors  "  (Roku-saku). 

INTERMEDIATE   SCULPTORS  (<<  CHIU-SAKU") 

Jiunin  —  sixteenth  century. 

Miyano  —  sixteenth  century. 

Sairen  (a  priest)  —  sixteenth  century. 

Kichijo-in  (a  priest)  —  sixteenth  century. 

Kaku-no-bo —  sixteenth  century.     Had  the  art  title  of  Ten- 

ka-ichi,  and  is  counted  an  eminent  sculptor. 
Boya  Magojiuro  )  date  uncertain_ 
Dansho  j 

Gunkei  —  twelfth  century. 
Kasuga  Tori  —  eighth  century.     A   celebrated  sculptor  of 

Buddhist  images  who  is  supposed  to  have  carved  masks  of 

Okina. 

Tankai  Rishi  (or  Hozan)  —  seventeenth  century. 
Shimizu  Rinkei  —  a  pupil  of  Tankai.  % 

Shoun  —  (1647-1700). 

THE  DEME   FAMILY 

Deme  Jikan  Yoshimitsu.  Called  also  Ono,  or  Kizan  or 
Sukezaemon  —  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries.  Ori- 
ginally an  armourer  of  Echizen,  he  became  a  sculptor  of 
masks  after  moving  to  Yamashiro.  In  1595  received  the 
art  title  of  Tenka-ichi  from  the  Taikb.  Entered  the 
Takugawa  service  and  died  in  1616. 

1 66 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

Deme  Yukan  Mitsuyasu  —  seventeenth  century  (d.  1652). 
Son  of  Jikan.  Called  also  Sukezaemon. 

Deme  Tohaku  Mitsutaka  —  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  cen- 
.  turies  (d.  1715). 

Deme  Tosui  Mitsunori  —  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  cen- 
turies (d.  1729).  Called  also  Mokunosuke,  Manku,  and 
Mambi. 

Deme  Hokan  Mitsunao — eighteenth  century  (d.  1743). 
Called  Hanzo. 

Deme  Yusai  Yasuhisa — eighteenth  century  (d.  1766). 

Deme  Choun  Yasuyoshi  —  eighteenth  century  (d.  1774). 
Called  also  Makunosuke. 

Deme  Toun  Yasutaka  —  nineteenth  century.  Called  also 
Untaro. 

Deme  Hanzo  Yasukore  —  nineteenth  century. 

THE   THREE  "ECHIZEN   DEME" 

Deme  Jirozaemon  Mitsuteru  —  sixteenth  century. 
Deme  Jirozaemon  Norimitsu  —  seventeenth  century. 
Deme  Jirozaemon  Yoshimitsu  —  seventeenth  century.  Called 

also  Genjiro. 
Deme  Gensuke  Hidemitsu  —  seventeenth  century.     Called 

also  Joshin,  or  Jokei. 
Deme  Genkiu  Mitsunaga  —  seventeenth  century  (d.  1672). 

Son  of  Jokei.     Called  also   Ko-Genkiu   (the  old  Genkiu) 

and  Manyei. 
Deme   Genkiu   Mitsushige  —  seventeenth    and   eighteenth 

centuries  (d.  1719). 

Deme  Genkiu  Mitsufusa  —  eighteenth  century  (d.  1758). 
Deme  Genkiu  Mitsuzane  —  eighteenth  and  nineteenth  cen- 
turies (d.  in  1812). 
Deme  Naka  Mitsuyuki  —  nineteenth  century.     Called  also 

Taroyemon. 

Deme  Gensuke  Mitsuakira — nineteenth  century. 
Deme  Genri  Yoshimitsu  —  seventeenth  century  (d.  1625). 
Deme  Genri  Toshimitsu  —  seventeenth  century. 


JAPAN 

OTHER   CELEBRATED   MASK-CARVERS 

Izeki  Kawachi  lyeshige  —  seventeenth  century  (d.  1646). 

Yamato  Mamori  (a  pupil  of  Kawachi). 

Izeki  Jirozaemon  —  eighteenth  century.     Had  the  rank  of 

Kazusa-no-suke  and  was  also  called  Chikanobu  and  Kiu- 

shiu.     He  was  accorded  the  honorary  title  of  Tenka-ichi. 
Omiva  Yamato  Bokunyu  —  seventeenth  century  (d.  1672). 

Had  the  honorary  title  of  Tenka-ichi. 
Kodama  Omi  Mitsumasa — seventeenth  century  (d.    1624). 

Had  the  title  of  'Tenka-ichi  and  was  called  also  Mansho. 
Miyata  Chikugo  (a  pupil  of  Mansho). 
Kodama  Choyemon  Tomomitsu  —  seventeenth  century  (son 

of  Omi). 

Kodama  Choyemon  Yoshimitsu  —  eighteenth  century. 
Senshu  Yashamaru  —  fifteenth  century.     Had  the  rank  of 

Tama-no-Kami  and  the  additional  name  of  Yorisada. 
Senshiu  Yoriyoshi  —  fifteenth  century.     Had  the  rank  of 

lyo-no-Kami.     This  artist  was  the  younger  brother  of  the 

priest  Sanko,  mentioned  above.     The  two  Senshiu  were 

the  ancestors  of  the  Deme  family  of  Echizen. 
Ariyoshi  Nagato  rib  Sbo  —  nineteenth   century.     A  samurai 

of  the  Miyatsu  fief,  who  attained  distinction  as  a  chiseller 

of  masks. 

Several  amateurs  gained  distinction  as  carvers  of 
masks,  but  no  accurate  list  of  their  names  has  been 
preserved. 

Belonging  strictly  to  the  category  of  costume,  but 
elevated  to  the  rank  of  art-products  by  the  beauty  of 
their  workmanship  and  the  wealth  of  fancy  lavished 
on  their  modelling  and  ornamentation,  the  netsuke, 
ojime,  kagami-buta,  kana-mono,  and  kuda-kusari  must  be 
accorded  a  high  place  in  any  account  of  Japanese 
sculpture.  The  dress  of  the  Japanese  having  no 
pockets,  except  the  recesses  of  the  sleeves,  which 
could  not  be  used  for  anything  heavy,  it  has  been  the 

168 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

custom,  from  a  remote  era,  to  attach  to  the  girdle 
various  objects  of  every-day  service.  The  most  an- 
cient of  these  is  the  kincbaku,  or  money-pouch.  Of 
course  in  the  days  when  media  of  exchange  were 
practically  limited  to  strings  of  copper  cash  much  too 
bulky  and  cumbrous  to  be  carried  on  the  person,  a 
money-pouch  was  a  useless  article  to  the  middle  and 
lower  classes.  But  to  aristocratic  and  wealthy  folks, 
who  made  their  payments  with  gold  dust  or  coins  of 
the  precious  metals,  the  kinchaku  was  more  or  less 
necessary.  After  a  time,  however,  it  ceased  to  be 
much  employed  as  a  monetary  receptacle,  its  place 
being  taken  by  a  kind  of  pocket-book  carried  in  the 
bosom.  The  kinchaku  did  not  go  out  of  vogue, 
however.  It  now  became  a  part  of  a  child's  costume, 
and  served  to  contain  an  amulet  and  a  wooden  ticket 
on  which  were  inscribed  the  name  and  address  of  the 
child's  parents,  the  little  one  being  thus  placed  under 
the  protection  of  heaven,  on  the  one  hand,  and  of 
kindly  folks  who  might  find  it  straying  or  in  trouble, 
on  the  other.  That  is  now  the  chief  function  per- 
formed by  the  kinchaku,  though  its  original  use  as  a 
money-bag  is  still  perpetuated  by  old  ladies.  As  part 
of  a  child's  toilet  it  is  often  a  very  beautiful  affair, 
made  of  richly  embroidered  silk  or  costly  brocade, 
and  the  method  of  attachment  to  the  girdle  is  simply 
by  tying.  But  tradition  says  that  when  men  used  the 
kincbaku,  they  preferred  to  keep  it  in  its  place  by  the 
aid  of  a  kind  of  button.  The  strings  of  the  pouch 
being  fastened  to  this  button,  the  latter  was  passed 
under  the  girdle  and  brought  out  above  it  so  as  to 
offer  an  effective  obstacle  to  the  withdrawal  of  the 
pouch  without  the;  owner's  cognisance.  The  pouch 
itself  may  have  been  a  simple  affair  in  ancient  times. 

169 


JAPAN 

There  is  no  information  on  that  subject ;  but  when 
the  elaborate  and  beautiful  character  of  Japanese  cos- 
tume at  so  remote  a  date  as  the  eighth  century  is 
remembered,  there  seems  reason  to  suppose  that  the 
quality  and  ornamentation  of  the  kinchaku  were  not 
incongruous  with  the  garments  it  accompanied.  At 
all  events  it  is  known  that  by  the  middle  of  the 
seventeenth  century  the  choice  of  material  for  the 
manufacture  of  the  kinchaku  and  of  the  other  objects 
suspended  from  a  gentleman's  girdle  —  objects  known 
generically  as  sage-mono >,  or  suspended  things  —  had 
become  a  business  demanding  as  much  delicacy  of 
judgment  and  causing  as  great  a  mental  strain  as  a 
Western  belle's  selection  of  her  first  ball-dress.  It  is 
mentioned,  in  a  Chinese  record  of  old-time  official- 
dom and  its  functions,  that  the  duty  of  collecting 
various  kinds  of  furs  and  skins  in  the  autumn,  and 
presenting  them  to  the  Imperial  Court  in  the  spring, 
occupied  the  constant  attention  of  an  important  bu- 
reau. The  Japanese  Imperial  Court  was  never  suffi- 
ciently wealthy  or  sufficiently  luxurious  to  follow  that 
example ;  but  the  extraordinary  development  of  re- 
fined taste  among  aristocratic  classes  under  the  feudal 
system  is  aptly  illustrated  by  the  fact  that  in  records 
dating  from  the  seventeenth  century,  no  less  than 
ninety-three  different  kinds  of  leathers  and  furs  are 
enumerated  and  carefully  described  as  orthodox  ma- 
terials for  sage-mono.  Of  these,  ten  were  of  Japanese 
manufacture,  the  others  being  imported  from  China, 
India,  Persia,  Ceylon,  Luson,  Russia,  Holland,  and 
elsewhere.  No  attempt  has  ever  been  made  to  iden- 
tify these  leathers,  and  even  if  sufficient  inducements 
offered,  the  task  would  scarcely  be  possible,  seeing 
that  many  of  the  skins,  after  reaching  Japan,  were 

170 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

subjected  to  processes  which  must  have  effectually 
obscured  their  provenance.  For  example,  one  kind, 
having  been  macerated  some  ten  times  with  juice 
extracted  from  the  bark  of  the  peach-tree,  was  then 
dyed  with  a  solution  of  gall-nut  and  sulphate  of  iron, 
after  which  it  was  polished  with  a  pumice-stone, 
treated  with  plum-juice,  and  finally  softened  by  hand- 
rubbing.  Reference  to  these  materials  is  made  here, 
not  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  their  origin  or  char- 
acteristics, but  solely  because  they  illustrate  the  care 
and  taste  bestowed  on  the  sage-mono.  It  must  not  be 
supposed,  however,  that  all  these  curious  and  pretty 
materials  were  imported  or  manufactured  for  the  sake 
of  the  klnchaku  alone.  The  klnchaku  is  given  a 
prominent  place  among  the  sage-mono  because  it  seems 
to  have  been  the  oldest  of  such  objects.  In  impor- 
tance it  was  quite  secondary  to  the  tobacco-pouch  and 
pipe-case.  Tobacco-pouches  and  pipe-cases,  how- 
ever, are  comparatively  modern  affairs.  Whether  the 
Japanese  learned  to  smoke  tobacco  when  Hideyoshi's 
troops  invaded  Korea,  or  whether  they  received  it 
from  their  first  Occidental  visitors,  the  Portuguese, 
they  certainly  knew  nothing  of  the  virtues  and  vices 
of  the  leaf  until  the  closing  years  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  nor  was  it  till  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth 
that  the  pouch  and  the  pipe  began  to  assume  the 
dainty  and  highly  ornate  forms  now  so  familiar.  To- 
bacco did  not  originally  commend  itself  to  polite 
society  in  Japan.  Sir  Ernest  Satow,  quoting  from 
the  family  records  of  a  certain  Dr.  Saka,  describes 
that,  in  the  year  1609,  the  dissipation  of  tobacco- 
smoking  led  to  the  formation  of  two  associations  in 
Edo  (Tokyo),  the  Bramble  Club  and  the  Leather- 
breeches  Club.  Their  members  were  roistering  blades 

171 


JAPAN 

who  loved  to  indulge  in  the  pastime  known  as 
"  painting  the  town  red,"  or,  still  better,  to  fight 
with  each  other,  when  the  toughness  of  the  leather- 
breeches  "  was  supposed  to  be  more  than  a  match  for 
the  tenacity  of  "  brambles."  The  pipes  used  by 
these  swashbucklers  were  from  four  to  five  feet  long. 
They  thrust  them  into  their  girdles  after  the  manner 
of  swords,  and  employed  them  as  cudgels  when  occa- 
sion offered.  No  transition  could  have  been  more 
signal  than  the  passage  from  these  monster  pipes  to 
the  tiny  little  kiseru  of  later  eras,  which  held  about 
as  much  tobacco  as  could  be  piled  on  the  nail  of  a 
young  lady's  little  finger,  and  were  perfect  bijoux  in 
the  matter  of  shapeliness  and  decoration.  Even  after 
several  vain  official  attempts  to  check  the  spread  of 
the  tobacco  habit  had  been  abandoned  as  abortive  and 
unnecessary,  some  time  elapsed  before  polite  folk  be- 
gan to  carry  pouches  and  pipes  at  their  girdles,  for 
smoking  in  the  open  air  was  not  practised,  and  on 
entering  a  friend's  home  the  visitor  expected  to  have 
a  tobacco-tray  set  before  him,  and  would  as  soon  have 
thought  of  smoking  a  pipe  of  his  own  tobacco  as  of 
taking  from  his  sleeve  a  packet  of  tea  and  a  teapot  to 
brew  his  own  beverage.  Were  it  known  exactly 
when  the  habit  of  attaching  pipes  and  pouches  to  the 
girdle  became  fashionable,  the  origin  of  the  beautiful 
ornaments  connected  with  this  class  of  sage-mono 
might  be  discussed  with  some  confidence.  But  there 
are  pictures  extant  which  show  that,  as  late  as  the 
middle  of  the  seventeenth  century,  a  lady's  pipe  — 
for  by  that  time  ladies  had  fallen  victims  to  the  se- 
ductive habit  —  was  so  long  that  it  had  to  be  carried 
by  an  attendant,  and  the  inevitable  conclusion  is  that 
the  miniature  pipe  and  its  charming  concomitants  — 

172 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

case,  pouch,  toggle  (netsuke),  cord-clutch  (pjime),  and 
so  forth  —  did  not  come  into  existence  till  the  close 
of  that  century. 

There  is  another  girdle-pendant  (sage-mono")  long 
antecedent  to  the  pipe  and  pipe-pouch,  —  a  pendant  to 
which  some  authorities  assign  a  greater  age  than  even 
that  of  the  kinchaku,  —  namely,  the  inro.  Origi- 
nally, as  its  name  implies,  a  little  bag  or  wicker- 
work  receptacle  for  holding  the  seal  (in  signifies  seal, 
and  ro,  a  bamboo  basket)  which  in  Japan  took  the 
place  of  a  written  signature,  the  inro  was  subsequently 
made  of  wood,  lacquered  black ;  and  thereafter  being 
converted  into  a  tiny  medicine  chest,  took  the  form 
of  a  tier  of  segments,  each  fitting  into  the  other  verti- 
cally, so  that  the  whole,  when  put  together,  became  a 
many-receptacled  little  box,  from  three  to  four  inches 
long  and  two  or  two  and  a  half  inches  wide,  its 
corners  rounded  and  its  thickness  reduced  so  that  it 
was  always  handy  and  never  obtrusive.  There  have 
been  enthusiastic  collectors  of  inro,  both  foreign  and 
Japanese.  It  is  a  taste  with  which  every  virtuoso  must 
sympathise,  for  as  specimens  of  exquisitely  artistic 
and  infinitely  painstaking  decoration  in  lacquer,  in- 
laying, and  sculpture,  these  tiny  medicine-boxes  de- 
serve unstinted  praise.  For  the  moment,  however, 
attention  may  be  directed  to  the  appendages  of  the 
inro  rather  than  to  the  inro  itself.  The  edges  of  the 
two  long  faces  carried  a  little  cylinder,  just  large 
enough  to  admit  a  silken  cord,  the  ends  of  which 
were  passed,  immediately  above  the  inro,  through  an 
ojime,  or  cord-clutch.  There  is  reason  to  think  that 
the  ojime  was  the  first  highly  ornate  appendage  of 
both  the  inro  and  the  kinchaku,  for  it  occupies  in  the 
latter  also  the  same  place  as  in  the  inro  and  serves  the 

173 


JAPAN 

same  purpose.  As  a  general  rule  it  was  simply  a 
bead  of  some  substance  regarded  as  precious  by  the 
Japanese,  though  occasionally  it  was  made  of  cloisonne 
enamel,  porcelain  (Chinese),  gold,  silver,  shakudo, 
shibuichiy  ivory,  wood,  or  the  kernel  of  a  peach,  mi- 
croscopic sculpture  being  added  in  the  case  of  the 
last  seven  substances.  No  less  than  sixty-four  differ- 
ent kinds  of  minerals  and  other  matters  were  used  to 
form  these  beads  when  the  beauty  of  the  substance 
alone  was  relied  on.  Among  them  were  coral  (pink, 
white,  and  black),  amber,  lapis  lazuli,  pearl,  rock- 
crystal,  aventurine,  agate,  marble,  garnet,  malachite, 
the  skull  of  the  crane,  and  prehnite.  These  details 
are  mentioned  for  the  purpose  of  showing  how  large 
a  measure  of  care  was  bestowed  on  the  appurtenances 
of  the  tnro,  and  how  unlikely  it  was  that  the  button 
in  which  the  ends  of  the  silken  cord  were  united  for 
passage  through  the  girdle  would  have  been  less 
ornate  than  the  bead  just  spoken  of.  In  point  of  fact 
the  button  of  the  inro  did  assume  the  form  of  the 
beautiful  object  called  netsuke  (ne  means  "  root "  or 
"  end,"  and  tsuke,  to  fasten)  as  early  as  the  end  of  the 
fifteenth  century,  when  the  dilettante  Shogun  Yoshi- 
masa  set  to  the  nation  an  example  of  luxury  and 
elegance  in  almost  every  department  of  daily  life. 
There  has  been  circulated  in  Europe  a  theory  that 
the  introduction  of  tobacco  in  the  sixteenth  century 
called  the  netsuke  into  existence,  its  original  use  being 
to  serve  as  a  button  for  the  tobacco-pouch  ;  and  it 
has  further  been  suggested  that  the  chiselling  of  the 
netsuke  would  never  have  been  carried  to  such  a 
degree  of  elaboration  had  not  a  great  number  of  idol- 
carvers  found  themselves  without  occupation  during 
the  second  half  of  the  seventeenth  century.  The 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

latter  idea  is  based  on  the  fact  that  the  second  Toku- 
gawa  Sbogun,  Hidetada  (1605-1623),  in  connection 
with  his  crusade  against  Christianity,  ordered  every 
household  throughout  the  realm  to  furnish  itself  with 
a  Buddhist  idol,  and  that  when  the  extraordinary  de- 
mand thus  created  had  been  satisfied,  the  busshi,  being 
without  employment,  turned  their  attention  to  chisel- 
ling tobacco-pouch  buttons.  But  Japanese  authori- 
ties are  agreed  that  the  netsuke  became  fashionable  as 
an  appendage  of  the  inro  long  before  the  tobacco- 
pouch  began  to  be  suspended  from  the  girdle.  An- 
other error  which  has  found  currency  in  the  same 
context,  and  which  has  helped  to  build  up  the  theory 
connecting  the  netsuke  with  the  sculptor  of  Buddhist 
idols  is  that  many  netsuke-shi  (makers  of  netsuke}  lived 
and  worked  at  Nara,  the  chief  home  of  idol-makers. 
It  is  certainly  true  that  Nara  may  be  called  the  birth- 
place of  Japanese  sculpture,  and  that,  from  the 
twelfth  century  onwards,  the  name  "  Nara  "  came  to 
be  associated  with  religious  sculpture,  just  as  in  later 
times  pottery  was  called  seto-mono  after  the  place 
(Seto)  of  its  chief  production.  It  is  also  true  that 
among  the  celebrated  productions  of  Nara  — the  Nara 
meibutsu,  as  they  are  called  —  there  have  long  been 
included  miniature  images  known  as  Nara  riingyo 
(Nara  puppets)  which  might  easily  be  supposed  to 
have  suggested  the  earliest  form  of  the  netsuke.  But 
the  Nara  ningyo  were  not  connected  with  the  netsuke, 
and  as  for  the  assertion  that  many  netsuke-shi  lived  at 
Nara  and  that  the  carver  of  Buddhist  images  turned 
his  chisel  to  the  netsuke  in  default  of  other  work,  it 
is  enough  to  say  that  the  records,  down  to  the  end 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  do  not  contain  the  name 
of  more  than  two  netsu ^-carvers  who  resided  at 

175 


JAPAN 

Nara,  and  that  they  include  only  one  sculptor  of  the 
busshi  class.  With  exceptions  so  rare  as  to  prove  the 
rule,  the  netsuke-shi  had  their  workshops  in  one  of 
"  the  three  cities  "  —  Yedo,  Kyoto,  and  Osaka  —  and 
confined  themselves  mainly  to  ornamenting  the  ap- 
pendages of  sage-mono.  Reference  may  be  made  here 
to  another  strange  theory  which  has  been  advanced 
by  more  than  one  European  writer,  that  many  netsuke- 
makers  were  dentists  whose  skill  in  the  use  of  the 
chisel  was  acquired  by  carving  false  teeth.  In  the 
long  list  of  early  netsuke-shi  there  are  only  two 
who  were  in  any  way  connected  with  the  dentist's 
profession. 

It    may  appear   that  disproportionate  attention    is 
here  devoted  to  the  question  of  the  origin  of  the  net- 
suke  and  the  ojime,  but  the  fact  is  that  no  objects  of 
art    found    in   Japan    are   more    essentially   Japanese, 
whether  their  range  of  fanciful  motives  be  considered, 
or  the  extraordinary  dexterity  of  their  carvers,  or  their 
originality.      India,   borrowing   the  art  from   Persia, 
developed  much  skill  in  carving,  piercing,  and  inlaying 
long    before   the   Japanese   netsuke  came   into    exist- 
ence,  and  the  Chinese,  from  an  early  epoch,  sculp- 
tured  tusks  and  slabs  of  ivory  in  the  most  elaborate 
manner,  carrying  their  craft  to  the  extent  of  cutting 
puzzle- balls,  one  inside  the  other,  out  of  a  single  piece 
of  ivory.      But  the  Japanese  netsuke  and  ojime  belong  to 
an  entirely  different  category  from  the  productions  of 
India,  China,  or  Persia.     No  one  thinks  of  making 
a    collection  of  the    latter :    half-a-dozen    specimens 
suffice  to  illustrate  the  art  of  each  country ;   a  greater 
number  would  be   wearisome.      In   the   case  of  the 
netsuke,  however,  it  is  scarcely  possible  to  possess  too 
many.     Inevitably  the  same  subject  is  often  repeated 

176 


'-{HI    TA    TFAO    3HT 


Q    3-HT   riO   3MO 


ONE   OF   THE   DEVA    KINGS   GUARDING   THE   GATE   AT   THE 

TEMPLE   TODAI-JI. 

(See  paga  1 13.) 

Sculptor  Kwaikei,  pupil  of  Unkei,  1180-1220. 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

without  marked  variation  of  treatment  ;  but  the 
range  of  conception  is  so  large,  the  motives  display 
such  a  wealth  of  fancy,  realistic,  conventional,  grave, 
humorous,  and  grotesque,  that  the  collector  perpetu- 
ally finds  some  new  source  of  admiration,  instruction, 
or  amusement.  If  Japan  had  given  to  the  world 
nothing  but  the  netsuke,  there  would  still  be  no  diffi- 
culty in  differentiating  the  bright  versatility  of  her 
national  genius  from  the  comparatively  sombre, 
mechanic,  and  unimaginative  temperament  of  the 
Chinese.  These  delightful  statuettes  often  represent 
deities,  figures  from  the  myth-land  of  Taoism,  Bud- 
dhism, and  Brahmanism,  demons,  gnomes,  and  other 
subjects  already  found  in  the  gallery  of  familiar  sculp- 
tures. But  they  also  represent  scenes  from  the 
homely,  every-day  life  of  the  people,  so  simply  and 
realistically  treated  that  they  play  in  glyptic  art  the 
same  role  as  genre  painting  does  in  pictorial.  Their 
carvers  drew  further  inspiration  from  the  whole  range 
of  natural  objects.  Birds,  animals,  reptiles,  leaves, 
flowers,  fishes,  and  insects  all  were  reproduced  with 
extraordinary  fidelity  and  artistic  taste.  The  netsuke, 
the  ukiyo-ye,  and  the  chromo-xylograph,  which  have 
already  been  discussed,  and  the  sword-furniture  which 
will  be  presently  described,  prove  conclusively  what 
a  profound  sense  of  beauty  and  instinct  of  art  must 
have  permeated  the  whole  mass  of  the  Japanese 
people,  and  how  the  best  qualities  of  the  decorative 
artist  were  educated  to  such  an  extent  as  ultimately 
to  become  innate  in  craftsman  and  critic  alike. 

Ivory  has  been  spoken  of  above  as  though  it  were 
the  principal  material  of  the  netsuke.  But  the  best 
work  was  done  in  wood  —  cherry-wood,  boxwood, 
sandalwood  (shitan},  or  ebony  (kokutari).  Bone,  horn 


I  2 


JAPAN 

(deer,  antelope,  or  ox),  vegetable  and  walrus  ivory, 
peach-stones,  walnuts,  and  the  skull  of  the  crane 
(hoten]  were  also  used.  Perhaps  the  finest  carving  is 
to  be  found  in  cherry-wood  netsuke,  though  those  in 
boxwood  derive  special  beauty  from  the  silky  texture 
assumed  by  the  surface  when  carefully  polished. 
Walnuts  and  peach-stones  were  generally  chiselled  in 
low  relief,  the  favourite  subjects  being  semin  (Taoist 
genii),  arhats  (disciples  of  Buddha),  the  Seven  Deities 
of  Fortune,  Benten  and  her  children,  and  other 
motives  involving  a  number  of  figures.  The  skull  of 
the  Chinese  crane,  which  resembles  snow-white  wax 
marked  with  fine  hair-lines,  receives  a  certain  myste- 
rious admiration  from  ignorant  Japanese,  who,  judg- 
ing by  its  name,  —  the  heavenly  phoenix,  —  associate 
it  with  the  fabulous  hoo  (phoenix).  It  has  always 
been  comparatively  rare,  and  was  a  favourite  material 
for  carving  masks,  especially  that  of  the  jolly,  sensu- 
ous goddess  Uzume,  or  the  fabulous  Bacchanalian  man- 
monkey,  Shojo  —  the  blood-red  plates  on  either  side 
of  the  skull  being  cleverly  brought  into  the  scheme 
of  the  carving  so  as  to  represent  the  hair  of  the  divin- 
ity or  the  monster. 

The  earliest  carvers  of  netsuke  were  evidently 
influenced  by  considerations  of  utility.  They  saw 
that  to  serve  its  purpose  of  sustaining  the  girdle- 
pendant  the  netsuke  should  have  greater  length  than 
bulk,  and  they  accordingly  took  their  designs  from 
old  legends  telling  of  supernatural  or  monstrous 
beings,  —  flying  dragons,  lamp-bearing  demons,  the 
dragon  god,  the  demon-slayer  (Sh'okt),  Kwan  Yu  (the 
Chinese  god  of  war),  the  kirin,  the  Taoist  genii,  and 
such  things.  Their  figure  subjects  were  always  amply 
draped,  the  nude  being  tabooed  by  the  sculptor  as 

178 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

well  as  by  the  painter.  Great  skill  was  exercised  in 
the  treatment  of  the  drapery  and  the  pose  of  the 
figure.  But  it  was  on  the  chiselling  of  the  face  that 
the  artist  expended  most  care,  and  the  result  justified 
his  toil ;  for  he  succeeded  in  producing  wonderful 
conceptions  of  the  wrinkled  recluse,  the  semi-savage 
and  wholly  appalling  dragon-deity,  the  relentless  yet 
beneficent  demon-slayer,  the  malevolent  ogre,  the 
phrensied  thunder-god,  and  the  inane  elf  of  the  moun- 
tains. Very  soon  he  extended  his  repertoire  of  motives. 
Masks  naturally  suggested  themselves  as  capable  of 
being  grouped  into  various  shapes,  and  netsuke  of  that 
form  are  often  of  the  highest  quality.  Then  followed 
carvings  of  the  Seven  Deities  of  Fortune,  sometimes 
singly,  sometimes  grouped  together ;  of  saru-gaku 
dancers ;  of  fishes  and  aquatic  plants  ;  of  mermaids  ; 
of  men  in  armour  ;  of  the  twelve  signs  of  the  zodiac  ; 
of  barn-door  fowl,  and  so  forth.  Foreign  influence, 
in  the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century,  seems  to 
have  temporarily  checked  the  development  of  Japan- 
ese fancy  in  this  branch  of  art,  for  it  became  fashion- 
able to  use  the  handles  of  Chinese  seals,  and  sometimes 
the  whole  seal,  as  a  netsuke.  The  Japanese,  when 
they  obey  their  own  instincts,  are  seldom  guilty  of  a 
solecism.  They  would  not  have  appended  a  seal  to 
a  tobacco-pouch  as  a  proper  adjunct.  But  if  the  fact 
be  recalled  that  the  inro  was  originally  a  receptacle 
for  a  seal  and  for  a  little  box  of  vermilion-ink  paste, 
it  is  easy  to  understand  how  Chinese  seals  came  to  be 
regarded  as  appropriate  toggles  for  the  inro,  and  how 
their  employment  in  that  capacity  was  extended  to 
the  tobacco-pouch.  In  Chinese  work  of  this  descrip- 
tion there  is  a  total  absence  of  the  naturalistic  pathos, 
playful  idealism,  and  human  interest,  which  charac- 

179 


JAPAN 

terise  the  Japanese.  The  Chinese  sculptor  is  not 
without  humour,  but  his  fancy  seems  to  be  always 
trammelled  by  grim  practicality  and  narrow  conven- 
tionalism. His  influence  upon  Japanese  sculptors 
was  not  wholesome,  and  they  soon  rebelled  against  it. 
Here,  however,  there  is  one  point  that  attracts  atten- 
tion. The  Chinese  had  a  certain  appreciation  of  the 
nude  in  sculpture.  Among  these  seal-handle  carv- 
ings —  which,  it  must  be  remembered,  were  consid- 
ered worthy  of  the  finest  workmanship  that  could  be 
bestowed  on  them  and  of  the  costliest  material 
available  —  nude  female  figures  occur  not  infrequently. 
But  it  would  be  very  difficult  to  determine  whether 
grace  of  form  or  sensuous  suggestion  was  the  sculp- 
tor's objective  in  choosing  such  motives.  His  man- 
ner of  treatment  leaves  the  question  exceedingly 
doubtful.  At  all  events,  he  found  no  imitators  in 
Japan.  The  nude  never  appealed  to  the  Japanese 
sculptor.  His  realistic  creed  often  appears  in  his 
manner  of  disposing  the  drapery  of  a  peasant  mother's 
dress  or  the  skirts  of  a  lady  caught  in  a  gust  of  wind 
and  rain,  but  it  is  evident  either  that  he  failed  to 
appreciate  the  exquisite  curves  of  the  female  form, 
though  in  all  other  directions  beauty  and  force  of 
line  constitute  his  special  excellence,  or  that  he 
associated  the  nude  with  the  erotic.  There  is  a  por- 
nographic side  to  his  work,  but  it  is  of  the  most 
unequivocal  character.  He  never  stood  upon  that 
hazy  border  line  of  aestheticism  and  voluptuousness 
that  runs  through  the  whole  of  Occidental  art  from 
the  times  of  Tanagra  to  the  days  of  Giacometti  and 
Hermann  Fran£ois. 

By   the   end   of  the  seventeenth   century  and   the 
beginning  of  the  eighteenth,  the  range  of  the  netsuke- 

180 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

carver's  motives  had  extended  into  the  every-day  life 
of  the  people,  into  the  realm  of  birds,  flowers,  insects, 
shells,  and  all  other  natural  objects,  and  into  the  sphere 
of  history.  It  is  hopeless  to  attempt  any  classifica- 
tion. Nor,  indeed,  would  anything  be  gained  by 
such  an  effort.  The  netsuke  derives  its  value,  in  the 
first  place,  from  the  skill  of  the  sculptor ;  in  the 
second,  from  the  nature  of  the  motive.  It  would  be 
as  impossible  to  lay  down  hard-and-fast  rules  for  the 
collector's  guidance  as  to  construct  a  useful  formula 
for  judging  the  merits  of  a  picture.  Many  people 
attach  great  importance  to  the  age  of  a  netsuke,  and, 
possessing  specimens  which  they  believe  to  be  old,  are 
complacently  confident  that  nothing  new  can  be  good. 
That  is  a  pure  delusion.  A  netsuke  gains  nothing  from 
age.  It  is  true  that  ivory,  like  bronze,  develops  in 
time  a  patina,  a  soft-brown  glow,  which  is  justly 
prized.  But  the  same  colour  can  be  produced  by 
"  treatment,"  the  same  superficial  texture  by  friction, 
and,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  both  are  produced  abundantly 
in  the  workshop  of  the  forger.  On  the  other  hand, 
there  are  a  score  of  artists  in  modern  Japan  who  can 
carve  a  netsuke  not  inferior  in  any  respect  to  the  best 
types  of  former  times.  The  skill  has  not  been  lost ; 
it  is  merely  exercised  in  other  directions.  Age,  then, 
is  valuable  solely  as  an  assistance  to  identifying  the 
work  of  celebrated  masters  who  flourished  in  past 
centuries.  Imitations  were  less  frequent  in  former 
eras  than  in  the  present,  and  if  a  netsuke  bearing  the 
signature  of  Miwa,  of  Tomochika,  of  Issai,  or  some 
other  great  expert,  is  unquestionably  old,  its  age 
becomes  a  partial  justification  for  crediting  the 
genuineness  of  the  signature.  Only  partial,  how- 
ever, for  from  the  time  —  a  hundred  and  fifty  years 

181 


JAPAN 

ago  —  when  the  names  of  netsuke-carvers  were  first 
thought  worthy  of  historical  record,  their  works 
began  to  be  copied,  even  to  the  signatures,  and 
though  a  little  care  should  guarantee  the  collector 
against  mistaking  for  old  masterpieces  the  begrimed, 
medicated,  and  comparatively  rough  forgeries  of 
modern  times,  a  combination  of  age  and  the  cachet 
of  a  renowned  master  does  not  prove  that  the  work 
is  not  an  imitation,  and  should  never  be  deemed 
sufficient  evidence  of  excellence.  Quality  is  every- 
thing. There  must  be  not  only  delicacy  and  finish, 
together  with  strength  of  line  and  accuracy  of  detail, 
but  there  must  also  be  eloquent  vitality,  simple  direct- 
ness of  treatment,  grace  of  conception,  and,  in  a 
majority  of  cases,  an  element  of  humour.  Certain 
favourite  designs  have  been  produced  again  and  again, 
—  a  group  of  rats  or  rabbits  ;  SBbki,  the  demon-slayer  ; 
an  imp  hiding  under  SHbkfs  discarded  hat ;  the  fight 
of  the  three  blind  shampooers ;  a  wild  bear  among 
reeds ;  Watanabe  and  the  demon ;  Daruma  roused 
from  his  pious  reverie  by  a  rat ;  a  monkey  with  its 
paw  caught  by  a  giant  clam ;  an  old  man  sneezing ; 
a  mountain  elf  (tengu]  emerging  from  an  egg-shell ; 
the  fight  between  Benkei  and  Yoshitsune ;  Urajima 
and  the  casket  of  longevity ;  New-Year  mummers 
(manzai) ;  groups  of  tortoises ;  saru-gaku  dancers ; 
the  Dog  of  Fo  (shishi)  and  peonies  ;  a  boy  peeping 
through  the  mouth  of  a  shishi  mask  ;  a  cicada  on  a 
dead  twig ;  a  snail  crawling  on  its  shell ;  a  peasant 
woman  carrying  a  child ;  wrestlers ;  Otafuke,  the 
vulgar  Venus,  washing  her  neck  at  a  tub  ;  Kagura 
dancers ;  monkeys  and  peaches  ;  a  bee  on  a  gourd  ; 
the  Lady  Tokiwa  and  her  three  children  journeying 
through  the  snow  ;  an  owl  on  a  decayed  stump  ;  a 

182 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

puppy  dog  and  a  dragon-fly ;  the  badger-bewitched 
pot ;  a  rat  gnawing  a  candle ;  a  cicada  shell  on  a 
walnut ;  the  Seven  Wise  Men  in  the  bamboo  grove ; 
frogs  in  all  kinds  of  positions ;  a  cock  perched  on  a 
tile  or  a  drum  —  each  and  every  one  of  these  used  to 
exist  by  scores  in  Japan  before  dilettanti  from  Europe 
and  America  came  to  carry  them  away.  But  among 
a  dozen  specimens  representing  the  same  motive  a 
little  accuracy  of  observation  will  soon  enable  the 
connoisseur  to  recognise  that  one  is  incomparably 
superior  to  the  other  eleven.  There  is  no  special 
difficulty  in  carving  rats,  or  rabbits,  or  cocks  and 
hens,  or  imps,  but  the  difference  between  a  group  of 
rats  or  rabbits  by  Rantei,  for  example,  or  Terutsugu, 
and  the  same  group  chiselled  by  a  modern  copyist 
who  manufactures  for  the  Western  market,  is  that  in 
one  case  the  animals  are  instinct  with  life  and  motion  ; 
in  the  other,  they  are  tame  and  nerveless.  The  same 
criticism  applies  throughout.  Even  a  tortoise  by 
Tomokazu  is  a  vital,  crawling  creature,  just  as  the 
discarded  shell  of  a  cicada  by  Rakuchika  is  seen  to  be 
a  mere  shell  before  its  hollowness  has  been  observed. 
No  wise  collector  will  trouble  himself  about  names 
and  dates  until  he  has  first  become  convinced  that  a 
netsuke  has  artistic  claims  to  such  attention. 

For  the  satisfaction  of  collectors  special  mention 
may  be  made  of  a  variety  of  netsuke  which  has  caused 
some  perplexity,  though  as  an  object  of  art  it  has  no 
merit  whatever.  The  subject  is  an  uncouth  figure, 
from  three  to  six  inches  high  and  therefore  of  un- 
usually large  dimensions,  wearing  a  strange  costume 
and  obviously  intended  to  represent  a  foreigner.  The 
material  is  generally  of  lacquered  wood  or  bone,  but  in 
rare  instances  ivory  is  used,  and  the  size  of  the  netsuke 

183 


JAPAN 

has  induced  some  persons  to  suppose  that  it  did  not 
serve  for  supporting  a  girdle-pendant.  But,  as  will 
be  seen  just  now  when  pipes  and  pouches  are  spoken 
of,  there  are  certain  classes  among  the  lower  orders 
of  Japanese  who  affect  everything  on  a  large  and  ob- 
trusive scale.  These  persons  found  a  big  ponderous 
netsuke  quite  to  their  taste,  and  were  moreover  pleased 
that  it  should  have  a  rude,  portentous  aspect.  The 
carver,  therefore,  had  recourse  to  the  popular  idea  of 
a  foreigner,  —  a  Dutchman  for  the  most  part,  —  and 
endeavoured  to  impart  to  the  figure  a  suggestion  of 
all  the  solecisms  of  dress  and  manners  that  the  outer 
barbarian  was  supposed  to  perpetrate.  If  the  average 
Japanese  connoisseur  be  asked  to  identify  these  gro- 
tesque figures,  he  replies  off-hand  that  they  are  Nam- 
ban-jin,  or  "  southern  barbarians,"  a  term  originally 
applied  to  all  aliens  coming  from  regions  southward 
of  Japan,  but  ultimately  used  with  special  reference 
to  the  Spaniards,  the  Portuguese,  and  the  Dutch.  But 
the  fact  is  that  the  Japanese  recognised  several  con- 
ventional types  of  half-civilised  outsiders,  and  often 
borrowed  the  characteristics  of  three  or  four  to  form 
a  specially  unlovely  and  confused  compound.  There 
was  the  "  Orangai  "  of  the  Amur  region  with  his 
sack-like  garment  of  woolly  hide,  his  feathered  and 
furred  cap,  and  his  Chinese  face.  There  was  the 
"  Ezo-jin,"  with  his  hirsute  visage,  monstrous  features, 
semi-Occidental  costume,  and  savage  aspect.  There 
was  the  "  Dattan  "  of  Tartary,  a  ferocious  edition  of 
the  "  Orangai,"  with  voluminous  ears,  repulsively  ugly 
features,  fur-bristling  robes,  bow  of  vast  strength  and 
arrows  three  feet  long.  There  was  the  "  Taiwan- 
jin  "  of  Formosa,  with  whiskers,  moustache,  and  im- 
perial ornamenting  a  vacuous  face ;  his  costume  a 

184 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

skull  cap,  a  necklace,  and  a  loin  cloth ;  his  weapon 
a  spear.  There  were  the  people  of  "  Kochi"  (Cochin 
China)  and  Tonkin,  with  tonsured  pates,  long  robes, 
expansive  pantaloons,  bare  feet,  and  a  peculiar  kind 
of  short,  double-barbed  spear  clasped  in  their  arms. 
It  would  appear  that  a  general  idea  of  these  various 
"barbarian"  characteristics  floated  in  the  mind  of 
the  Japanese  sculptor,  and  that  he  combined  them 
according  to  the  dictates  of  his  fancy  when  required 
to  carve  netsuke  for  the  portly  pouch  and  ponderous 
pipe  of  the  professional  stalwart. 

A  word  must  be  said  about  the  general  form  of 
the  netsuke.  Speaking  broadly,  there  are  only  two 
kinds.  There  is  first  the  netsuke  whose  shape  is  de- 
termined by  that  of  the  object  represented.  This  is 
the  most  frequent  and  also  the  finest  type.  The  net- 
suke is  then  a  statuette,  and  the  modelling  must  be 
perfect  from  every  point  of  view.  The  second  kind 
may  be  called  the  "  button  netsuke  "  (known  in  Japan 
as  manju  or  riusa).  It  is  either  a  solid  circular  disc 
of  ivory,  wood,  or  bone,  covered,  more  or  less  pro- 
fusely, with  designs  sculptured  in  high  or  low  relief; 
or  it  is  an  unornamented  disc  of  the  same  materials 
framing  a  metal  plate  to  which  alone  the  decoration 
is  applied.  The  chiselling  of  these  metal  plates 
(kagaml-buta]  fell  to  the  task  not  of  the  netsuke- 
maker  but  of  the  goldsmith  (kinzoku-sht),  to  whom 
there  will  presently  be  occasion  to  refer.  As  to  the 
first  kind  of  button-netsu&e,  it  varies  greatly  in  size, 
some  being  as  much  as  three  inches  in  diameter,  and 
others  not  more  than  one  inch.  The  common  size 
is  about  an  inch  and  a  half.  In  the  case  of  these 
netsukes  the  artist  had  to  decorate  a  surface  only  ;  a 
much  easier  achievement  than  the  chiselling  of  the 


JAPAN 

statuette-nefsu&e.  But  with  that  reservation  his  work 
merits  high  admiration,  and  is,  further,  more  uni- 
formly excellent  than  the  work  of  the  statuette  sculp- 
tor. Wonderful  skill  is  shown  in  producing  effects 
of  space  and  gradations  of  distance  by  varying  the 
degree  of  relief  or  incision,  and  the  most  delicate 
elaboration  of  detail  is  found  in  combination  with 
purity  of  design  and  directness  of  method. 

The  netsuke  and  the  ojime  are  not  the  only  objects 
of  beauty  connected  with  girdle-pendants.  Quite  as 
much  artistic  skill  was  lavished  upon  the  inro.  This 
gem  of  workmanship  properly  belongs,  however,  to 
the  category  of  lacquer  manufactures,  and  will  be 
again  referred  to  in  that  context.  The  glyptic  artist 
did  not,  as  a  rule,  apply  his  talents  to  its  decoration. 
But  there  are  many  exceptions  ;  notably  inro  in  ivory. 
Sometimes  the  whole  surface  of  an  ivory  inro  is  cov- 
ered with  a  deeply  chiselled  design  of  flying  cranes, 
or  a  herd  of  monkeys,  or  a  mob  of  horses.  Some- 
times it  is  made  of  strips  of  ivory  woven  after  the 
fashion  of  a  bamboo  basket ;  sometimes  of  ebony  or 
shitan  (red  sandalwood),1  chiselled  in  landscapes, 
diapers,  arabesques,  battle-scenes,  or  mythological 
subjects ;  sometimes  the  inro  itself  fits  into  a  thin 
metal  shell,  with  decoration  elaborately  chased  or 
chiselled  in  relief  and  pierced  throughout  so  as 
to  reduce  the  weight  and  show  the  inro  within.2  It 
would  be  an  endless  task  to  make  detailed  reference 
to  the  innumerable  happy  conceptions  of  the  Japanese 
craftsman  in  this  branch  of  his  work.  One  of  the 
delights  of  collecting  Japanese  objects  of  virtu  is  that 
surprises  may  always  be  expected.  The  repertoire  of 
novelties  is  never  exhausted. 

1  See  Appendix,  note  21.  2  See  Appendix,  note  22. 

186 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

Much  that  has  been  said  above  about  the  inro  and 
the  netsuke  applies  also  to  the  pipe  (kiseru),  the  pipe- 
case  (fa'seru-zufsu) ,  and  the  tobacco-pouch  (tobacco-ire). 
The  pipe,  from  having  originally  been  a  ponderous 
clumsy  affair,  sometimes  carried  over  the  shoulder 
and  serviceable  as  a  weapon,  gradually  dwindled  to 
tiny  proportions,  and  began  to  command  the  attention 
of  the  decorative  artist.  It  must  be  noted,  however, 
that  the  aristocratic  pipe  is  never  a  highly  ornate 
affair.  Its  most  approved  form  has  always  been  a 
central  joint  of  polished  reed,  carrying  a  long  mouth- 
piece and  a  diminutive  bowl,  both  of  gold,  silver,  or 
one  of  the  compound  metals  which  the  Japanese 
manufacture  with  such  unique  skill.  The  bowl  and 
mouthpiece  occasionally  have  decoration,  —  engraved 
or  inlaid  pictures,  diapers  or  arabesques,  translucid 
enamelling  in  cloissons,  or  chaste  designs  in  low 
relief,  — but  in  the  great  majority  of  cases  the  metal 
sections,  with  the  exception  of  the  end  of  the  mouth- 
piece, have  their  surface  uniformly  hammered  in  one 
of  the  "stone-grain"  diapers  by-and-byto  be  described. 
There  have  passed  into  foreign  collections  a  number 
of  massive  and  comparatively  large  pipes,  —  some- 
times made  entirely  of  silver,  or  of  the  greyish  white 
metal  called  shibuichi  •  sometimes  having  a  central 
joint  of  reed  —  on  the  decoration  of  which  the  chisel 
of  the  sculptor  has  been  employed  to  produce  strik- 
ingly ornate  effects.  Such  pipes  are  never  used  by 
gentlemen  and  ladies  in  Japan.  They  have  always 
been  the  exclusive  property  of  the  wrestler,  who  loves 
to  have  everything  colossal ;  of  the  professional  gam- 
bler and  the  swashbuckling  chevalier  a" Industrie;  of 
the  tory'd,  who  stands  at  the  head  of  a  guild  of  work- 
men in  virtue  of  his  expert  muscles  and  courageous 

187 


JAPAN 

masterfulness ;  and  of  that  peculiar  clan  of  stalwarts, 
represented  in  feudal  times  by  the  otoko-datf,  a  genuine 
redresser  of  wrongs  and  champion  of  the  weak,  but 
in  modern  days  by  the  greatly  degenerate  soshi,  who 
aims  at  being  a  political  reformer,  but  seldom  rises 
above  the  level  of  a  hireling  bully.  The  pouches 
that  accompany  these  big  pipes  are  of  correspondingly 
large  dimensions,  and  have  metal  clasps  which,  as 
specimens  of  fine  glyptic  work  and  clever  designing, 
deserve  the  special  attention  that  collectors  have 
bestowed  on  them.1  The  same  remark  applies  to  the 
clasps  of  smaller  pouches,  carried  by  every-day  folks. 
But  as  the  chiselling  of  these  objects  falls  to  the  task 
of  the  maker  of  sword-furniture,  they  will  be  further 
noticed  in  the  latter  context. 

The  pouch  itself  was  generally  of  leather,  fur,  skin, 
or  some  rare  textile  fabric.  There  were  nearly  a  hun- 
dred recognised  varieties  of  choice  material,  each  hav- 
ing its  duly  defined  points,  and  each  designated  by  a 
special  name.  Attention  may  be  directed  here  to  a 
feature  which  will  be  further  illustrated  by-and-by, 
—  the  extraordinary  wealth  of  nomenclature  presented 
by  the  Japanese  vocabulary  of  decorative  art.  How 
many  kinds  of  leather,  or  cloth,  or  silken  fabric, 
suitable  for  the  cover  of  a  tobacco-pouch  or  a 
pocket-book,  could  an  American  or  European  expert 
indicate  by  means  of  a  terminology  that  would  be 
immediately  intelligible  to  the  person  addressed  ?  A 
score  and  a  half  would  probably  exhaust  the  list. 
Yet,  in  a  well-known  Japanese  work  compiled  at  the 
close  of  the  eighteenth  century,  no  less  than  ninety- 
three  varieties  are  separately  designated  and  described. 
There  is,  of  course,  no  occasion  to  enter  into  any 

1  See  Appendix,  note  23. 

188 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

detailed  account  of  the  nature  and  appearance  of 
these  materials.  What  is  interesting  is  to  note,  first, 
the  lesson  taught  by  their  great  variety,  —  the  immense 
care  bestowed  by  the  Japanese  upon  an  article  com- 
paratively so  unimportant  as  the  tobacco-pouch,1  — 
and  secondly,  that  they  were  the  means  of  introducing 
some  distinctly  foreign  elements  into  Japanese  deco- 
rative art.  For  the  great  majority  of  these  materials 
were  imported,  from  India,  from  Holland,  from 
Persia,  from  China,  from  Siam  and  other  countries, 
and  the  designs  impressed,  woven,  or  embroidered 
upon  them  not  only  were  emphatically  alien,  but 
also  in  many  instances  represented  bizarre  conceptions, 
crudely  worked  out,  and  falling  far  below  the  stan- 
dards of  decorative  excellence  to  which  the  Japanese 
had  themselves  attained.  But  there  has  always  been 
in  Japan  an  affection  for  the  quaint  and  the  archaic. 
It  owes  its  origin  to  the  cult  of  the  tea-clubs,  and  its 
effect  upon  the  art  of  the  country  was  in  some  respects 
vitiating.  Thus  in  the  case  of  these  imported  leathers 
and  stuffs,  when  the  materials  themselves  were  not 
actually  employed,  their  designs  were  occasionally 
taken  by  the  glyptic  artist  as  the  most  appropriate 
motive  for  decorating  the  surface  of  the  pouch  or  the 
pipe-case,  and  the  result  is  that  these  objects,  when 
made  of  wood,  ivory,  horn,  or  bamboo,  sometimes 
present  a  style  of  decoration  without  any  Japanese 
affinities  and  with  very  little  to  recommend  it  from 
an  artistic  point  of  view.  On  the  whole,  however, 
the  use  of  hard  substances  —  bamboo,  ebony,  shitan, 
betel-nut,  palm,  ivory,  or  horn  —  for  the  manufacture 
of  pouches  was  exceptional.  In  the  case  of  ivory,  a 
favourite  though  seldom  practised  method  was  to  cut 

1  See  Appendix,  note  24. 

189 


JAPAN 

the  material  in  fine  strips  and  weave  them  in  basket 
meshes,  the  technical  difficulty  constituting  the  chic 
of  the  article.  An  ivory,  ebony,  or  bamboo  surface 
carved  so  as  to  be  indistinguishable  from  basket  work 
was  also  prized,  and,  for  the  rest,  many  quaint  and 
pretty  methods  of  sculpture  and  decoration  were 
employed ;  but,  on  the  whole,  the  tobacco  pouch  it- 
self, apart  from  its  appendages,  was  the  least  ornate  of 
the  girdle-pendants. 

The  pipe-case  (kiseruzutsu)  is  another  of  Japan's 
glyptic  triumphs.  M.  Gonse  justly  says  that  there 
are  few  objects  on  which  Japanese  artists  have  ex- 
pended more  consideration  and  taste.  In  form  it  is 
very  simple  —  a  slightly  flattened  tube,  the  upper  por- 
tion of  which  slips  into  the  lower  in  such  a  manner 
as  to  be  gripped  more  tightly  the  further  it  is  in- 
serted. The  material  is  ebony,  bamboo,  sandalwood, 
horn,  ivory,  lacquered  wood,  and  sometimes  metal. 
Carved  with  exquisite  care  and  taste  in  high  relief, 
elaborately  engraved,  inlaid  with  various  substances, 
or  overlaid  with  applied  ornaments,  the  pipe-case  is 
unquestionably  a  charming  specimen  of  decorative 
art.  It  must  not  be  supposed,  however,  that  richness 
and  profusion  of  ornamentation  are  regarded  as  evi- 
dences of  excellence  in  Japan.  M.  Gonse,  in  an  out- 
burst of  enthusiasm,  refers  to  a  pipe-case  in  the  Gon- 
court  collection  as  le  roi  des  etuis  b  pipe  passes,  presents 
et  futures,  and  describes  it  thus  :  "  It  is  a  bamboo 
tube,  the  rotundity  slightly  flattened,  covered  with 
a  flight  of  dragon-flies.  One  cannot  imagine  any- 
thing more  marvellously  captivating,  more  sumptu- 
ous than  this  decoration,  half  in  relief,  half  incised, 
enriched  with  enamel,  with  mother-of-pearl,  and 
with  coloured  ivory  ;  with  gradations  and  effects  of 

190 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF   ART 

background,  obtained  by  the  contrast  between  dragon- 
flies  simply  sculptured  and  dragon-flies  of  enamel  and 
mother-of-pearl  in  the  foreground."  Such  work  is 
doubtless  very  beautiful  to  Western  eyes,  but  a  classi- 
cal Japanese  connoisseur  would  turn  from  it  with  dis- 
dain. Some  thirty  years  ago,  there  lived  a  sculptor, 
named  Hashi-ichi,  then  in  his  old  age.  His  spe- 
cialty was  to  imitate  bamboo :  to  reproduce  in  box- 
wood, in  ebony,  or  in  shit  an  the  joints,  the  texture, 
the  graining,  and  all  the  other  characteristics  of  the 
bamboo.  If  one  of  Hashi-ichi's  unadorned  pipe- 
cases  together  with  M.  Gonse's  "  king  of  past,  of 
present,  and  of  future  pipe-cases,"  were  offered  to  a 
Japanese  connoisseur,  he  would  choose  the  former 
unhesitatingly,  for  the  profuse  decoration  which 
appeals  to  Occidental  eyes  represents  a  comparatively 
modern  period  of  Japanese  art,  and  is  not  always 
in  harmony  with  the  best  Japanese  canons.  Some 
specimens  there  are,  indeed,  in  which  wealth  of 
design  and  purity  of  conception  are  happily  com- 
bined, and  the  decoration  is  nobly  rich  without 
any  hint  of  meretriciousness.  But  seldom,  very  sel- 
dom indeed,  did  a  Japanese  craftsman  of  the  first  class 
attempt  to  build  up  designs  with  such  a  melange  of  sub- 
stances as  mother-of-pearl,  coloured  ivory,  and  enamel. 
In  operations  of  that  patchwork,  dovetailing,  finikin 
kind  there  was  no  room  for  vigour  and  directness  of 
line  or  strength  of  chisel,  nor  could  the  decorator 
look  to  satisfy  the  highest  canon  of  his  art,  —  large 
effect  with  small  effort.  It  will  be  readily  under- 
stood that  the  pipe-case,  the  netsuke,  the  tobacco- 
pouch,  and  its  appendages  and  ornaments  were  all 
en  suite,  all  formed  part  of  the  same  decorative 
scheme.  They  do  not  necessarily  lose  interest  or 

191 


JAPAN 

beauty  by  separation,  though  sometimes  the  story 
their  design  tells  does  not  bear  to  be  divided  into 
fragments.  There  is  nothing  to  be  added  in  this 
context  to  what*  has  already  been  said  about  the 
range  of  the  netsu&e-czrver's  decorative  motives.  The 
same  craftsman  undertook  the  chiselling  of  the  netsuke 
and  the  pipe-case,  and  derived  his  designs  from  the 
same  sources. 

Mention  may  be  conveniently  made  here  of  two 
objects  which,  although  they  have  no  connection  with 
girdle-pendants,  received  their  decoration  from  the 
hands  of  the  latter's  craftsman.  They  are  the  kiyoji- 
tate  and  the  kbgo.  The  kiyoji-tate,  though  a  very  beauti- 
ful little  affair,  may  be  dismissed  with  a  few  words. 
It  is  a  miniature  vase,  from  three  to  four  inches  high, 
generally  hexagonal  in  section,  used  for  holding  the 
delicate  silver  instruments  of  the  incense-burning  pas- 
time. Made  of  silver,  gold,  silver-gilt,  and  sometimes 
shakudo  or  shibuichi,  its  sides  are  almost  invariably  chis- 
elled in  reticulated  diapers,  scrolls,  or  arabesques,  but 
it  owes  its  attraction  rather  to  grace  of  form,  highly 
finished  technique,  and  delicacy  of  decorative  design 
than  to  excellence  of  sculpture.  The  kbgo  is  a  tiny 
box  for  holding  cakes  of  incense.  Like  the  inroy  it 
belongs  primarily  to  the  domain  of  lacquer  manufac- 
ture. But  there  are  many  specimens  in  metal  or 
ivory  with  sculptured  decoration,  incised  or  in  relief, 
of  such  fine  design  and  choice  workmanship  that  they 
deserve  to  be  classed  among  the  best  cbefs-d'ceuvre  of 
glyptic  art. 

Who  were  the  men  that  carved  these  beautiful 
objects,  so  essentially  Japanese,  and  what  inspiration 
led  the  glyptic  artist  in  the  seventeenth  century  to 
make  a  departure  analogous  to  that  made  by  the 

192 


o1?  .Hziyiiia  Y.I  vioMr/ 

^Ssq  9»2) 


ELEVEN-FACED   KWANNON  IN  SHRINE,  FOURTEENTH   CENTURY. 

(S«e  page  139.) 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF   ART 

pictorial  artist  of  the  Toba-ye  in  the  twelfth  ?  There 
is  no  escape  from  the  general  conclusion  that  Japan- 
ese art  derived  its  motives  and  its  methods  from  foreign 
sources,  but,  on  the  other  hand,  both  in  sculpture  and 
in  painting  it  shows  developments  which  owe  nothing 
to  alien  suggestion,  and  must  be  placed  to  the  sole 
credit  of  Japanese  genius.  That  distinction  has 
already  been  noted  with  regard  to  the  Ukiyo-ye  ( genre- 
picture),  and  its  truth  in  the  realm  of  sculpture  is 
established  partly  by  the  works  of  Jocho  and  his 
successors  in  the  religious  school,  and  completely  by 
the  carving  of  netsuke  and  girdle-pendants  in  general. 
The  netsuke  is  a  combination  of  the  Toba-ye  and  the 
Ukiyo-ye.  It  shows  all  the  humour  of  the  former 
without  the  grotesque  exaggerations  of  form,  and  it 
has  all  the  naturalistic  graces  and  human  interest  of 
the  latter.  There  is  nothing  exactly  corresponding 
to  it  in  the  sculpture  of  any  other  country,  and  one 
imagines  that  the  first  appearance  of  such  an  object 
ought  to  be  historically  recorded.  But  the  difficulty 
that  confronts  the  student  in  tracing  any  school  of 
Japanese  pictorial  art  to  its  source,  presents  itself  in 
the  case  of  the  netsuke  also  :  public  attention  was  not 
directed  to  the  new  departure  until  its  success  had 
become  conspicuous,  and  in  the  meanwhile  the 
pioneers  had  passed  out  of  sight  and  memory.  There 
is  a  vague  Japanese  tradition  that  the  first  sculptor 
who  made  a  specialty  of  netsuke-curv'mg  was  one  Ri- 
fu-ho  of  Kyoto.  He  is  said  to  have  flourished  from 
1 625  to  1 670.  "  Ri-fu-ho  "  is  not  a  family  name  or  a 
personal  name.  It  is  one  of  the  professional  appella- 
tions which  Japanese  experts  generally  take.  Nothing 
is  known  of  the  man  or  of  his  work.  He  is  referred 
to  also  as  "  Hinaya,"  and  some  English  writers  have 

VOL.     VII.  13  I  no 


JAPAN 

assumed  that  the  latter  was  an  alternative  name.  But 
"  hina-ye  "  signifies  "  a  maker  of  hina ;  "  that  is  to 
say,  of  the  puppets  set  up  at  the  Girls'  Fete  on  the 
fifth  day  of  the  fifth  month.  These  little  figures  did 
not  call  for  much  exercise  of  glyptic  skill.  Their 
costumes  and  all  the  accessories  of  the  various  char- 
acters they  represented  were  of  the  most  accurate  and 
elaborate  nature.  Processions  of  feudal  chiefs  with 
every  miniature  squire  and  man-at-arms  caparisoned 
exactly  as  he  would  be  in  life,  and  with  all  the  para- 
phernalia of  travel  reproduced  microscopically  ;  wed- 
ding ceremonials,  from  the  feast  with  its  refined 
conventionalism  when  the  loving-cup  was  exchanged, 
to  the  bride's  first  return  to  the  abode  of  her  parents ; 
scenes  from  the  history  of  filial  piety  or  from  the 
pages  of  mythology,  folk-lore,  or  fable ;  in  short,  an 
endless  repertoire  of  subjects  offered  itself  for  the 
choice  of  the  maker  of  hinay  and  since  these  little 
figures  with  their  accompaniments  are  exact  repro- 
ductions of  Japanese  costume,  customs,  weapons, 
armour,  household  utensils,  and  what  not,  they  are 
greatly  and  deservedly  prized  by  foreign  collectors. 
But  they  cannot  be  called  works  of  art :  they  are 
simply  the  most  elaborate  and  naturalistic  dolls  ever 
made  in  any  country.  Generally  the  figures  were  of 
wood,  but  in  the  choicest  specimens  ivory  was  used 
for  the  faces,  hands,  and  feet.  Sums  corresponding 
to  many  hundreds  of  sovereigns  were  occasionally 
expended  upon  these  hina  by  great  and  wealthy 
families,  in  order  that  some  pet  daughter  might 
celebrate  her  fete  with  sufficiently  triumphal  delight ; 
for  it  must  be  observed  that  the  little  ladies,  wearing 
gala  frocks,  visited  each  other's  displays  of  hina  during 
many  days,  and  that  the  "  grown-ups  "  of  the  district 

194 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF   ART 

took  scarcely  less  pride  and  pleasure  in  this  feature  of 
the  fete.  Nothing  was  more  natural  than  that  a 
maker  of  hina  should  turn  to  the  more  artistic  but 
somewhat  cognate  pursuit  of  netsuke-czrvrng.  For 
the  rest,  however,  nothing  can  be  predicated  about  the 
traditional  Ri-fu-yo.  No  specimens  of  his  work  are 
known  to  have  survived,  and  if  he  took  the  elaborate 
hina  as  a  model,  his  immediate  successors  did  not 
follow  his  example.  According  to  an  appendix  to 
the  Soken  Kisho  (Treatise  on  Sword-Furniture),  com- 
piled by  Michitaku  and  published  in  June,  1781,  the 
first  carver  of  netsuke  was  the  well-known  painter 
Tosa  Mitsuoki,  who  died  in  the  year  1691.  He  had 
the  rank  of  Hogen,  and  his  art  name  was  Shuzan. 
The  Sbken  Kisho  says  of  him :  — 

Hogen  Shuzan  lived  at  Shima-no-uchi  in  Osaka.  All  the 
netsuke  carved  by  this  artist  are  coloured.  Many  imitations 
have  been  made,  but  none  has  the  qualities  possessed  by 
works  from  the  artistic  hands  of  the  skilled  painter. 

Note  by  Kinshi  Hozan,  son  of  Shuzan  :  "  My  father,  who 
is  artistically  known  as  Hogen  Shuzan,  was  called  Mitsuoki, 
or  Tansenso,  and  enjoyed  a  high  reputation  as  a  painter. 
He  was  very  fond  of  carving,  and  loved  to  reproduce,  with 
due  alterations  of  enlargement  or  reduction,  the  quaintest 
and  most  unusual  figures  shown  in  the  Sankaikyo  (shapes 
from  the  mountain  and  the  ocean)  or  the  Ressaiden  ( annals 
of  Rishi).  In  fact,  any  figure  that  he  fancied  took  shape 
under  his  chisel.  His  scheme  of  colouring  was  so  excellent 
that  ordinary  folks  can  have  no  conception  of  it.  But  as 
he  ceased  to  carve  after  reaching  middle  life,  his  works  are 
very  scarce  and  of  correspondingly  high  value.  Ina  Michi- 
taku, a  friend  of  mine,  who  has  been  recently  engaged  com- 
piling the  Sbbken  Kisbo,  with  an  appendix  on  netsuke,  has 
asked  my  permission  to  publish  some  of  my  father's 
carvings,  together  with  those  of  some  other  artists.  I  desire 
to  comply  with  his  wishes,  but  unfortunately  these  old  and 

19S 


JAPAN 

rare  carvings  are  not  to  be  obtained  easily,  being  preciously 
treasured  up  by  their  possessors.  Hence  there  is  nothing 
at  hand  really  suitable  for  publication.  I  have  thought, 
however,  that  since  my  father  carved  only  as  a  pastime  in 
the  intervals  of  his  work  as  a  painter,  his  reputation  will 
suffer  no  injury  by  letting  the  public  see  even  such  mediocre 
specimens  of  his  glyptic  work  as  happen  to  be  available. 
Hence  I  have  sketched  a  few  and  sent  them  to  my 
friend." 

It  will  be  observed  that  already  in  the  year  i  78 1 
the  netsuke  carved  by  Shuzan  were  very  scarce,  that 
all  his  works  were  coloured  (from  which  it  may 
be  inferred  that  the  only  material  employed  by  him 
was  wood),  and  that  imitations  were  numerous 
even  during  the  lifetime  of  the  immediately  suc- 
ceeding generations.  Indeed,  the  fact  that  a  netsuke 
carries  the  name  of  one  of  the  early  celebrities 
ought  generally  to  inspire  distrust,  and  to  suggest 
possibly  the  work  of  an  inferior  craftsman  without 
either  reputation  or  skill  to  justify  the  use  of  his 
own  name. 

It  is  frequently  alleged  that  no  good  netsuke  have 
been  made  in  modern  times :  a  conception  derived, 
doubtless,  from  the  fact  that  after  the  opening  of  the 
country  to  foreign  intercourse  in  1857,  the  netsuke 
ceasing,  on  the  one  hand,  to  be  valued  by  the  Japanese 
themselves,  and  becoming,  on  the  other,  an  object  of 
curiosity  and  admiration  to  foreigners,  hundreds  of 
inferior  specimens  were  chiselled  by  inexpert  hands, 
purchased  wholesale  by  treaty-port  merchants,  and 
sent  to  New  York,  London,  and  Paris,  where,  though 
they  brought  profit  to  the  exporter,  they  also  dis- 
gusted connoisseurs  and  soon  earned  discredit  for  their 
whole  class.  But  it  was  a  mistake  to  conclude  from 

196 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

these  parodies  that  the  sculptor  had  lost  his  old 
ability.  He  still  retained  it,  though  its  exercise  was 
circumscribed,  and  in  Tokyo,  Osaka,  and  Kyoto 
netsukes  of  high  quality  continued  to  be  produced. 
During  recent  years  the  artists  have  turned  their 
attention  to  a  somewhat  different  class  of  object, 
the  okimono,  or  statuette,  but  it  is  not  to  be  supposed 
that  they  are  a  whit  inferior  to  the  old-time  experts 
in  conception  and  execution.  The  collector  may 
be  satisfied  that  a  netsuke  bearing  the  signature  of 
a  comparatively  modern  artist  is  not  necessarily  in- 
ferior to  a  genuine  specimen  by  Seibei,  Tomtoda, 
Miwa,  or  Issai. 

The  passing  reference  already  made  to  Nara  ningyo 
(puppets  of  Nara)  requires  to  be  briefly  supplemented. 
Visitors  to  the  celebrated  temples  of  Nara  find  for 
sale  there  some  roughly  chiselled  wooden  figures,  two 
or  three  inches  high,  generally  representing  the  old 
couple  of  Takasago  and  a  few  other  familiar  motives. 
The  figures  are  painted  in  two  or  three  colours. 
They  can  scarcely  be  called  art  objects,  but  belong 
rather  to  the  category  of  toys.  Yet  they  are  con- 
nected with  a  once  flourishing  industry  which  occu- 
pies a  prominent  place  in  the  history  of  Japanese 
wood-carving.  In  1588,  when  the  TaiKb  had  the 
honour  of  receiving  a  visit  from  the  Emperor  in  the 
newly  constructed  "  Palace  of  Pleasure  "  at  Fushimi, 
he  ordered  the  sculptors  of  Nara  to  exert  their  ut- 
most skill  in  producing  a  congratulatory  carving 
which  should  stand  in  the  alcove  of  the  reception 
chamber.  The  form  of  such  an  object  was  limited 
by  tradition  to  the  shimadai,  or  "  island-stand,"  a  mo- 
tive derived  from  the  Japanese  cosmogony  in  which 
the  creator  and  the  creatrix,  Izanami  and  Izanagi,  are 

197 


JAPAN 

supposed  to  have  begotten  the  island  of  Onokoro, 
when  the  male  and  female  principles  first  came  into 
active  existence.  The  divine  feat  is  represented  in  art 
by  a  gracefully  shaped  stand,  more  or  less  elaborately 
decorated,  on  which  are  placed  two  figures  of  an  aged 
man  and  woman,  as  well  as  a  group  of  plum,  bamboo, 
and  pine  trees,  with  accessories  in  the  shape  of  cranes 
and  tortoises.  The  figures  are  the  spirits  of  the  ancient 
pine-trees  of  Takasago  and  Sumiyoshi,  and  the  whole 
combination  is  emblematic  of  longevity,  prosperity, 
happiness,  and  undying  affection.  The  Taiko's  com- 
mission to  prepare  this  alcove  ornament  was  given  to 
Yemon  Tazayemon,  a  sculptor  of  Nara,  and  the 
shima-dai  there  produced  —  Nara-dai,  as  it  is  often 
called  —  is  popularly  said  to  have  been  the  origin  of 
the  afterwards  celebrated  Nara-ningyo.  But  here, 
again,  the  student  detects  a  tendency  common  in 
Japanese  art-annals,  the  tendency  to  mistake  the  first 
public  recognition  of  an  industry  for  its  origin.  The 
plum,  the  pine,  the  bamboo,  the  tortoise,  the  crane, 
and  the  spirits  of  the  ancient  trees,  of  Sumiyoshi  and 
Takasago,  had  symbolised  long  life,  prosperity,  and 
enduring  conjugal  love  for  centuries  prior  to  the 
building  of  the  ill-fated  Momoyamagoten  at  Fushimi, 
and  innumerable  shima-hai1  had  been  prepared  for 
wedding  ceremonies  before  Hideyoshi  gave  a  com- 
mission to  the  Nara  sculptors.  Indeed,  close  exami- 
nation of  the  records  shows  that  Nara-ningyo  were 
manufactured  as  early  as  the  year  1 135,  on  the  occa- 
sion of  the  first  great  Kasuga  festival,  when  the  image 
of  the  god  Waka-miya  was  moved  to  a  new  shrine  ; 
and  tradition  says  that  in  their  origin — which  was 
not  later  than  the  middle  of  the  tenth  century  — 

1  See  Appendix,  note  25. 

198 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

these  little  figures  partook  of  the  nature  of  amulets, 
having  been  carved  out  of  the  old  timbers  of  the 
sacred  bridge  leading  to  the  temples,  when  the  bridge 
was  renewed  for  the  first  time.  It  was  an  article  of 
popular  faith  that  all  these  little  figures  were  made 
from  bridge-wood  which  had  been  hallowed  during 
long  years  by  the  tread  of  priests  and  the  passage  of 
festival  processions,  but  since  the  bridge  did  not  re- 
quire renewing  more  than  once  in  fifty  years,  whereas 
every  pilgrim  visiting  Nara  carried  away  one  of  the 
images,  faith  must  have  been  substituted  for  fact  in 
an  immense  number  of  cases.  Let  the  timber  be 
what  it  might,  however,  the  sculptor  had  to  observe 
one  rule  unfailingly :  he  was  required  to  fashion  the 
object  with  a  minimum  use  of  the  chisel.  Perfect 
success  in  that  respect  was  supposed  to  be  attained 
when  the  tool  was  never  applied  a  second  time  to  the 
same  place.1  Thus  the  Nara-ningyo  stood  to  sculp- 
ture in  the  same  relation  as  that  of  the  Indian-ink 
sketch  to  painting.  These  figures  do  not  appear  to 
have  attracted  much  attention  in  aesthetic  circles  until 
the  Taikos  example,  as  described  above,  being  followed 
by  the  nobility  as  well  as  by  wealthy  commoners,  gave 
a  great  impulse  to  the  art  of  the  himono-shi?  From 
that  time  the  chiselling  of 'Nara-ningyo  became  a  flour- 
ishing industry,  the  range  of  motives  being  gradually 
extended  and  the  colouring  executed  with  care  and 
taste.  Some  of  these  figures  were  richly  lacquered, 
and  when  thus  decorated  they  received  the  name  of 
Negoro-ningyo.  In  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  an  expert  sculptor  named  Okano  Hohaku 
gave  a  wider  range  to  his  art  by  chiselling  characters 
from  the  classic  mimes,  —  the  bugaku,  the  gigaku, 

1  See  Appendix,  note  26.  2  See  Appendix,  note  27. 

I99 


JAPAN 

and  the  nogaku,  —  and  in  1830  Kambayashi  Rakki- 
ken,  a  cha-no-yu  celebrity,  who  resided  in  Uji,  at- 
tracted attention  by  chiselling  representations  of 
girls  engaged  in  the  processes  of  tea-manufacture. 
These  Uji-ningyo,  as  they  are  called,  often  stand  on 
a  very  high  plane  of  artistic  feeling  and  technical 
skill. 

The  latest  development  of  figure-sculpture  in  Japan 
prior  to  the  Meiji  era  was  the  Asakusa-ningyo,  so  called 
from  the  name  of  the  place  (Asakusa  in  Yedo)  where 
the  sculptor,  Fukushima  Kagan,  lived,  and  where  his 
works  were  usually  exhibited.  The  Asakusa-ningyo 
was  generally  a  life-size  figure,  representing  some  his- 
torical or  mythical  character.  Draped  in  appropriate 
garments,  these  ningyo  were  grouped  so  as  to  form 
traditional  scenes,  and  admission  to  the  gallery  where 
they  stood  could  be  obtained  on  payment  of  a  small 
fee.  This  was  the  Madame  Toussaud's  of  Japan. 
Generally  the  ningyo  were  modelled  in  clay,1  but 
whatever  the  material,  they  were  little  better  than 
large  puppets,  raised  above  doll  level  by  the  clever 
modelling  of  their  faces  and  hands.  Such  a  branch  of 
technical  sculpture  would  scarcely  deserve  notice  save 
for  its  association  with  Matsumoto  Kisaburo  (1830- 
1869),  who  is  frequently  spoken  of  by  Western  connois- 
seurs as  the  greatest  wood-carver  of  modern  Japan. 
Certainly  he  was  the  most  realistic,  for  he  carved  human 
figures  with  as  much  accuracy  as  though  they  were  des- 
tined for  purposes  of  surgical  demonstration.  Consider- 
ing that  this  man  had  neither  education  nor  anatomical 
instruction,  and  that  he  never  enjoyed  an  opportunity 
of  studying  from  a  model  in  a  studio,  his  achieve- 
ments were  remarkable.  He  and  the  craftsmen  of 

1  See  Appendix,  note  28. 

2OO 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

the  school  he  established,  completely  refute  the 
theory  that  the  anatomical  defects  commonly  seen  in 
the  work  of  Japanese  sculptors  are  due  to  faulty  ob- 
servation. Without  scientific  training  of  any  kind, 
Matsumoto  and  his  followers  produced  works  in  which 
the  eye  of  science  cannot  detect  any  error.  But  it  is 
impossible  to  admit  within  the  circle  of  high-art  pro- 
ductions these  wooden  figures  of  every-day  men  and 
women,  unrelieved  by  any  subjective  element  and 
owing  their  merit  entirely  to  the  fidelity  with  which 
their  contours  are  shaped,  their  muscles  modelled,  and 
their  anatomical  proportions  preserved.  They  have 
not  even  the  attraction  of  being  cleanly  sculptured  in 
wood,  but  are  covered  with  thinly  lacquered  muslin, 
which,  though  doubtless  a  good  preservative,  accen- 
tuates their  puppet-like  character.  Nevertheless  Mat- 
sumoto's  figures  marked  an  epoch  in  Japanese  wood 
sculpture.  Their  vivid  realism  appealed  strongly  to 
the  taste  of  the  average  foreigner  ;  a  considerable 
school  of  carvers  soon  began  to  work  in  the  Matsu- 
moto style,  and  hundreds  of  their  productions  have 
gone  to  Europe  and  America,  finding  no  market  in 
Japan.  The  greatest  of  these  modern  experts  is 
Yamamoto  Fukumatsu.  He  reaches  the  level  of 
Matsumoto  Kisaburo. 

Midway  between  the  Matsumoto  realistic  school 
and  the  pure  Japanese  style  of  former  times,  stand  a 
number  of  wood-carvers  headed  by  Takamura  Koun, 
who  occupies  in  the  field  of  sculpture  much  the  same 
place  as  that  held  by  Hashimoto  Gaho  in  the  realm 
of  painting.  Koun  carves  figures  in  the  round,  which 
not  only  display  great  power  of  chisel  and  breadth 
of  style,  but  also  tell  a  story  not  necessarily  drawn 
from  the  motives  of  the  classical  school.  This  de- 

2OI 


JAPAN 

parture  from  established  canons  must  be  traced  to 
the  influence  of  the  short-lived  academy  of  Italian 
art  established  by  the  Japanese  Government  in  1 874. 
In  the  forefront  of  the  new  movement  are  to  be 
found  men  like  Yoneharu  Unkai  and  Shinkai  Take- 
jiro,  the  former  of  whom  chiselled  a  figure  of  Jenner 
for  the  Medical  Association  of  Japan  when  they 
celebrated  the  centenary  of  the  great  physician,  and 
the  latter  has  carved  life-size  likeness  effigies  of 
Princes  Arisugawa  and  Kitashirakawa  who  lost  their 
lives  in  the  war  of  1894-1895.  The  artists  of  the 
Koun  school,  however,  do  much  work  which  appeals  to 
emotions  in  general  rather  than  to  individual  memo- 
ries. Thus  Arakawa  Reiun,  one  of  Koun's  most 
brilliant  pupils,  recently  exhibited  a  figure  of  a  swords- 
man in  the  act  of  driving  home  a  furious  thrust.  The 
weapon  is  not  shown.  Reiun  sculptured  simply  a  man 
poised  on  the  toes  of  one  foot,  the  other  foot  raised, 
the  arm  extended,  and  the  body  straining  forward  in 
strong  yet  elastic  muscular  effort.  This  carving  em- 
phasises the  advantage  of  not  working  from  a  model. 
A  posed  figure  could  not  possibly  suggest  the  alert 
vitality  and  high  muscular  tension  of  the  swordsman. 
A  more  imaginative  work  by  the  same  artist  is  a 
figure  of  a  farmer  who  has  just  shot  an  eagle  that 
swooped  upon  his  grandson.  The  old  man  holds  his 
bow  still  raised.  Some  of  the  eagle's  feathers,  blown 
to  his  side,  suggest  the  death  of  the  bird ;  at  his  feet 
lies  the  corpse  of  the  little  boy,  and  the  horror,  grief, 
and  anger  that  such  a  tragedy  would  inspire  are  de- 
picted with  striking  realism  in  the  farmer's  face. 
Work  of  that  nature  has  close  affinities  with  Occi- 
dental conceptions.  Its  chief  distinguishing  feature 
is  that  the  glyptic  character  is  preserved  at  the  ex- 

202 


VARIOUS    APPLICATIONS    OF    ART 

pense  of  surface-finish.  The  undisguised  touches  of 
the  chisel  tell  a  story  of  technical  force  and  direct- 
ness which  could  not  be  suggested  by  perfectly 
smooth  surfaces.  To  subordinate  process  to  result 
is  the  European  canon.  To  show  the  former  with- 
out marring  the  latter  is  the  Japanese  ideal.  Many 
of  Koun's  sculptures  appear  unfinished  to  eyes  trained 
in  Occidental  galleries,  whereas  the  Japanese  con- 
noisseur detects  evidence  of  a  technical  feat  in  their 
seeming  roughness. 

Architectural  decoration  in  Europe  and  America 
ought  to  provide  much  employment  for  the  Japanese 
wood-carver.  In  his  own  country  temples,  shrines, 
and  mausolea  used  to  offer  a  wide  field  for  his  chisel ; 
but  since  feudalism  fell  and  since  the  State  turned  its 
back  upon  religion,  the  greatly  reduced  revenues  of 
sacred  edifices  barely  suffice  for  their  support  and 
leave  no  margin  for  their  embellishment.  There  has 
not,  however,  been  any  diminution  of  the  old  glyptic 
skill  and  originality.  On  the  contrary,  at  least  as 
much  talent  as  ever  is  now  available.  Formerly  a 
large  part  of  the  decorative  sculpture  for  temples  and 
mausolea  was  done  in  sections,  which  were  after- 
wards pieced  together  with  nails  and  glue.  Ex- 
amples of  that  method  may  be  seen  in  some  of  the 
most  effective  carvings  of  the  Nikko  mausolea.  The 
head  and  neck  of  a  phoenix,  for  instance,  are  sculp- 
tured in  three  or  four  segments,  and  the  tail-feathers 
in  five  or  six.  Elaborate  chiselling  in  relief  on  a 
solid  ground  was  seldom  attempted  in  wood,  admi- 
rable as  was  the  work  of  that  kind  achieved  in  metal. 
But  at  glyptic  exhibitions  in  Tokyo  during  recent 
years  beautiful  specimens  of  solid  carvings  in  relief 
have  been  shown.  Such  work,  if  judiciously  applied 

203 


JAPAN 

to  the  interiors  of  foreign  buildings,  must  be  highly 
attractive,  and  the  cost  would  be  comparatively  small, 
for  a  very  slender  remuneration  still  satisfies  the  Japan- 
ese art  artisan.  Intelligent  enterprise  should  find  an 
opportunity  here. 


204 


Chapter  VI 

SCULPTURE    ON  SWORD-FURNITURE 

OF  the  three  fields  in  which  Japanese  art  may 
justly  claim  to  have  shown  original  genius, 
namely,  the  art  of  genre  painting  with  its 
correlated  achievements  in  chromo-xylog- 
raphy,  the  field  of  netsuke  carving,  and  the  field  of 
sculpture  as  employed  for  the  decoration  of  weapons 
of  war,  it  is  probably  correct  to  say  that  the  most 
remarkable  work  is  found  in  the  last. 

There  is  a  common  belief  that  the  decoration  of 
arms  and  armour  did  not  reach  a  high  grade  of  excel- 
lence until  the  twelfth  century  of  the  Christian  era. 
Japanese  traditions,  on  the  contrary,  allege  that  the 
inlaying  of  armour  with  gold  and  silver  began  in 
the  fourth  century,  but  there  is  nothing  to  support 
the  assertion.  The  armour  found  in  dolmens  shows 
no  trace  of  inlaying,  or  of  any  elaborate  ornamen- 
tation, and  it  may  be  said  that  the  contents  of  these 
peculiar  tombs,  which  represent  the  burial-places  of 
Japanese  chieftains  and  sovereigns  down  to,  probably, 
the  fifth  century  of  the  Christian  era,  did  not  give 
much  promise  of  the  extraordinary  skill  afterwards 
attained.  Nevertheless  it  is  certain  that  the  sculptor 
must  have  occupied  himself  diligently  with  the 
decoration  of  armour  long  before  the  Gem-pei  wars 
of  the  twelfth  century,  for  a  suit  of  mail  worn  by 
Yoshitsune,  the  hero  of  that  time,  which  is  preserved 

205 


JAPAN 

in  a  temple  at  Nara,  exhibits  features  of  considerable 
decorative  beauty.  It  is  a  combination  of  plate  and 
chain  defence,  and  the  chiselling  of  the  helmet, 
breastplate,  and  brassarts  indicates  that  Japan  possessed, 
at  that  comparatively  early  era,  workers  in  metal  not 
unworthy  to  rank  with  the  sculptor  of  the  Siris 
Bronzes.  Indeed  Yoshitsune's  armour  forcibly  recalls 
that  celebrated  relic  of  the  school  of  Praxiteles,  for 
just  as  the  Grecian  artist  adorned  the  shoulder-pieces 
of  the  armour  with  repousse  pictures  of  a  combat 
between  an  Amazon  and  a  warrior,  so  on  Yoshitsune's 
shoulder-pieces  the  Japanese  craftsman  affixed  repousse 
representations  of  the  Dog  of  Fo,  and  on  the  helmet, 
flying  pheasants.  These  adjuncts,  however,  are  a 
minor  feature  in  the  case  of  the  Japanese  suit  of  mail. 
The  chief  characteristic  is  a  wealth  of  designs  — 
peony  sprays,  the  well-known  combination  of  plum, 
bamboo,  and  pine,  chrysanthemum  scrolls,  and  birds  — 
in  high  relief,  a  jour,  and  in  low  relief.  The  crafts- 
man who  could  execute  such  work  had  not  much 
room  for  improvement,  and  indeed  it  is  not  surpris- 
ing to  know  that  a  family  which  through  many 
generations  gave  Japan  her  greatest  artists  in  iron  — 
the  Miyochin  family  —  was  founded  by  an  armourer, 
and  had  a  celebrated  representative  in  the  second  half 
of  the  twelfth  century. 

While,  however,  this  fine  work  was  lavished  on 
the  decoration  of  armour  certainly  from  the  twelfth 
century  and  probably  from  an  earlier  date,  the  adorn- 
ment of  the  sword  did  not  receive  commensurate 
attention  until  the  fifteenth  century,  —  a  curious  fact 
from  the  point  of  view  of  mere  incongruity,  but 
doubly  curious  when  it  is  remembered  that  whereas 
armour  was  worn  only  on  special  occasions,  the  sword 

206 


S  W  O  R  D-FU  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

had  a  perpetual  place  in  the  girdle,  and  possessed, 
moreover,  a  value  which  seems  romantic  until  some- 
thing is  learned  of  its  really  wonderful  capacities. 
The  sword  itself,  not  being  an  object  of  art,  will  not 
be  discussed  here,  great  as  is  the  interest  otherwise 
attaching  to  it.  What  has  to  be  spoken  of  is  sword- 
furniture.  There  it  was  that  the  Japanese  worker  in 
metals  won  his  crown  of  skill.  In  the  decoration 
that  he  lavished  on  the  guard,  the  hilt,  and  other 
parts  of  the  sword's  mountings,  he  gave  to  the  world 
peerless  specimens  of  sculpture  in  metal  and  of  metal- 
lurgic  processes.  There  is  nothing  in  the  cognate 
work  of  any  other  nation  that  surpasses,  perhaps  noth- 
ing that  equals,  the  masterpieces  of  Japan  in  this 
line.  The  scarabs  of  Etruria  have  been  mentioned  as 
in  some  degree  parallel,  just  as  the  Tanagra  statuettes 
have  been  classed  with  the  netsuke.  If  it  be  permissi- 
ble to  place  on  the  same  artistic  plane  a  terra-cotta 
figure  cast  in  a  mould  and  a  carving  in  wood  or  ivory, 
then  also  it  may  not  be  extravagant  to  compare  the 
pictures  sculptured  and  painted  —  no  other  term  can 
be  justly  used  —  on  metal  by  decorators  of  Japanese 
swords  to  the  intaglios  of  Etruscan  gem-cutters. 
These  are  matters  of  taste  not  profitable  to  discuss, 
nor  will  any  one  who  has  had  an  opportunity  of  exam- 
ining a  really  representative  collection  of  Japanese 
sword-furniture  experience  the  least  difficulty  in  form- 
ing a  final  opinion.  He  will  recognise  that  he  is 
dealing  with  pictorial  art  applied  to  metal,  and  the 
longer  he  studies  the  subject  the  greater  the  charms 
it  develops  and  the  more  numerous  the  surprises  it 
affords.  This  eulogy  is  not  intended  to  imply  that 
there  are  to  be  found  among  articles  of  Japanese 
sword-furniture  monumental  specimens  of  decorative 

207 


JAPAN 

metal-work  worthy  to  be  classed  with  objects  such  as 
the  silver  altar  of  the  Florence  baptistery,  the  candela- 
brum of  the  Milan  Cathedral,  the  mediaeval  rejas  of 
Spanish  churches,  and  many  of  the  other  magnificent 
achievements  of  European  artists  in  metal.  The  two 
classes  of  work  are  not  comparable.  One  might  as 
well  place  in  the  same  category  the  dancing  maidens 
of  the  walls  of  Herculaneum  and  the  most  delicate 
miniature  paintings  on  ivory.  It  has,  indeed,  been 
asserted  that  the  extraordinary  labour  of  mind  and 
hand  lavished  by  the  Japanese  artist  upon  objects  the 
biggest  of  which  can  be  enclosed  within  a  circle  three 
inches  in  diameter,  justifies  the  criticism  that  he 
belonged  to  a  nation  great  in  little  things  and  little 
in  great  things.  But  if  the  Japanese  sculptor  of 
sword-furniture  is  to  be  accused  of  moral  smallness 
because  he  applied  himself  to  the  production  of  tiny 
ornaments,  the  same  charge  may  be  preferred  against 
Benvenuto  Cellini,  since  so  much  of  his  fame  rests  on 
his  enamelled  jewelry.  Whatever  quality  of  mind 
the  fact  indicates,  it  is  indisputable  that  the  Japanese 
artist  or  art-artisan  is  the  most  conscientious  in  the 
world.  He  loves  to  expend  the  finest  and  most 
patient  effort  upon  the  least  conspicuous  portions  of 
the  object  he  ornaments,  partly  because  loyalty  to  his 
art  dictates  such  a  sacrifice  of  labour,  and  partly 
because  he  thus  enters  a  kind  of  noble  protest  against 
any  suspicion  of  decorative  ostentation  which  the 
beauty  and  richness  of  his  work  might  otherwise 
suggest.  That  habit  of  craftsmanship  is  well  illus- 
trated in  sword-furniture.  The  delicacy  of  chiselling 
and  infinitely  careful  finish  betowed  on  every  detail 
delight  the  connoisseur  as  much  as  they  astonish  him. 
Admirable  as  is  the  nefsu  fa-carver's  work,  the  art  of 

208 


93*1  •&) 


.nsiblirfO  bne  isloH  ,}oa(du2 


•  OT! 
.;  i 


.yiov! 


; 
: 


1 

Ivory. 
By  Meikeisai  HoJItsD. 


NETSUKE. 
(See  page  1 77.) 

2 

Ivory. 
By  Hakuunsai. 


3 

Ivory. 

Not  marked. 


Ivory  and  Shibnichi. 
By  Shuraku. 

7 

Ivory. 

By  Sukenaga. 
Subject,  Daruma  Sneezing. 

10  ; 
Wood. 

By  Sukenaga. 
Subject,  Frog  and  Nut. 


•5 

Ivory. 

By  Hojitsu. 

Subject,  Hotel  and  Children. 

8 

Ivory. 

By  Tomokazu. 

Subject,  Demon  catching  Shoki 
under  a  basket. 

11 

Ivory. 
By  Masanao. 


6 

Ivory. 
By  Suksnaea. 


Ivory  and  Wood. 
By  Kaigyaku  and  Mitsuhira. 

Subject,  Bell  encrusted 
with  shells. 

12 

Ivory. 
By  Okatomo. 


13 

Ivory. 
By  Hojitsu. 


14 

Ivory. 
By  Hakuunsai. 


15 

Ivory. 
By  Hojitsu. 


16 

Ivory  and  Metal. 
Not  marked. 


17 

Ivory. 
By  Chlkuyosai. 


18 

Ivory. 
By  Hokyokumin 


19 

Ivory. 
By  Rantei. 


20 

Ivory. 
By  Kaigyokusai. 


21 

Ivory. 
By  Masatsugu. 


22 

Ivory. 
Not  marked. 


23 

Ivory. 

By  Minkaku. 
Subject,  Fulline  Cloth. 


24 
Ivory. 

By  Masateru. 


..     25 

Irory. 
By  Tamahide. 


All  the  above  are  taken  from  the  collection  of  B.  Clarke  Thornhill. 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

the  sword-ornamenter  has  greater  range  and  freedom. 
That,  indeed,  is  a  necessary  result  of  the  well-recog- 
nised law  that  the  more  direct  and  complete  the 
imitation  effected  by  any  art,  the  less  the  range  and 
the  number  of  the  phenomena  it  can  imitate.  The 
netsuke  being,  for  the  most  part,  a  sculpture  in  the 
round,  the  actions,  expressions,  and  accessories  repre- 
sented by  it  must  be  limited  by  the  principles  of  sta- 
bility and  simplicity  that  govern  the  "  space-arts ;  " 
whereas,  in  the  decoration  of  sword-furniture,  the 
artist  may  introduce  a  much  wider  range  of  objects 
and  a  much  greater  complexity  of  actions.  The 
student  of  these  beautiful  creations  finds  that  Japanese 
sculptors  have  exercised  to  the  full  their  proper  lati- 
tude of  motives  and  methods.  The  carver  of  sword- 
furniture  did,  in  fact,  make  "  pictures  "  in  metal ;  that 
is  to  say,  pictures  within  the  limitations  found  appli- 
cable to  all  Japanese  pictorial  art,  wherein  such  sub- 
tleties of  appearance  as  are  due  to  the  incidence  of 
light  and  shade  find  scarcely  any  place. 

The  Japanese  samurai  carried  two  swords  in  his 
girdle.  They  are  spoken  of  collectively  as  dai-skb 
(long  and  small),  and  separately  as  katana  (the  long 
sword)  and  wakizasbi  (the  companion  sword,  that  is 
to  say,  the  short  sword).  There  were  four  other  kinds 
of  sword  ;  namely,  ( i )  the  tachi  (called  also  jintachi, 
or  "  war "  tachi),  a  long  curved  blade  carried  by 
samurai  of  high  rank;  (2)  the  tsurugi,  a  straight, 
double-edged  sword  used  in  ancient  times  (the  katana, 
the  wakizasbi,  and  the  tachi  were  all  one-edged)  ;  (3) 
the  aikucbi,  a  dagger  (without  guard),  used  originally 
for  stabbing  or  decapitating  a  prostrate  foe,  and  sub- 
sequently worn  by  the  samurai  when  the  dai-sbo 
were  removed  (as  on  entering  a  friend's  house) ;  and 

VOL.    VII. 14  2O9 


JAPAN 

(4)  the  kaiken  (lit.  bosom   sword),  a   dagger  (without 
guard)  worn  by  women. 

The  furniture  of  the  sword,  —  that  is  to  say,  of  the 
katana  and  the  wakizasbi,  —  commencing  from  the 
top  of  the  hilt,  consists  of — 

The  kashira  (tip)  —  a  metal  cap  placed  upon  the  top  of  the 
hilt  (kashira  literally  means  "  head,"  and  in  this  case  is  an 
abbreviation  of  tsuka-gashira,  or  the  "  head  of  the  hilt  "). 

The  menuki  (rivet)  —  a  piece  of  metal  placed  under  the 
frapping  of  the  hilt  to  improve  the  grasp.  The  origin  of  the 
menuki  will  be  explained  presently.  A  menuki  being  placed 
on  either  side  of  the  hilt,  these  ornaments  always  occur  in 
pairs  and  have  decoration  en  suite. 

Thefucbi — a  metal  ring  encircling  the  hilt  immediately 
above  the  guard.  The  ornamentation  of  the  fuchi  and  that 
of  the  kasbira  is  always  en  suite. 

The  tsuba  —  the  guard. 

The  seppa  —  a  small  plate  through  which  the  haft  of  the 
sword  passes  before  entering  the  guard. 

The  habaki  —  two  flanges  (forming  a  single  piece),  which 
grasp  the  sides  of  the  blade  immediately  below  the  seppa. 
The  seppa  and  the  habaki  never  carry  decorative  designs  of 
any  kind,  but  are  mentioned  here  for  the  sake  of  com- 
pleteness. 

The  kozuka — a  knife  inserted  in  the  scabbard  of  the 
"companion  sword"  (wakizasbi).  The  tip  of  the  knife's 
hilt  lies  opposite  an  opening  in  the  guard  through  which  it 
is  drawn  when  required  for  use.  It  is  generally  supposed 
that  the  term  kozuka  applies  to  the  hilt  only  of  the  knife  or 
dagger,  the  whole  being  called  the  kogatana  (little  sword). 
But  by  kozuka  the  Japanese  understand  the  knife  attached  to 
the  scabbard  of  a  sword,  and  by  kogatana  any  knife,  such  as 
that  used  by  a  wood-carver,  for  example. 

The  kbgai  —  a  skewer  inserted  in  the  scabbard  of  the 
"  companion  sword  "  (wakizashi),  on  the  side  opposite  to 
the  kozuka.  The  kogai,  like  the  kozuka,  is  drawn  through 
an  opening  in  the  guard.  It  thus  results  that  the  guard  of 
the  "  companion  sword  "  has  always  two  oval  holes,  whereas 

210 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

the  guard  of  the  katana  is  either  without  these  holes,  or  has 
them  filled  with  removable  plates.  The  kogai  served  the 
samurai  as  a  kind  of  hair-pin  for  fastening  on  his  official  cap 
(kammurt).  In  time  of  war  it  was  put  to  a  different  use, 
being  thrust  into  the  head  of  a  slain  adversary  for  purposes 
of  subsequent  identification  so  that  the  victor  might  claim 
the  honour  due  to  his  prowess.  The  kogai  sometimes  takes 
the  form  of  a  pair  of  skewers. 

The  Kurigata  —  an  oval  knob  fastened  on  one  side  of  the 
scabbard,  and  having  a  hole  through  which  the  pendent  cord 
(sage-o)  is  passed.  The  sage-o,  which  is  always  a  strong 
braid  of  silk,  is  twisted  round  the  scabbard  like  a  sword-knot, 
but  its  chief  use  is  to  tie  back  the  long  sleeves  of  the  surcoat 
during  a  fight.  In  the  case  of  the  curved  sword  (tachi),  how- 
ever, the  sage-o  served  to  fasten  the  scabbard  to  the  girdle. 

The  soritsuno  —  a  piece  of  metal  fixed  on  the  scabbard  of 
the  "  companion  sword  "  below  the  kurigata  to  prevent  the 
scabbard  from  slipping  (sort)  in  the  girdle. 

The  kojiri — a  metal  cap  sometimes  placed  on  the  end  of 
the  scabbard. 

The  furniture  of  the  curved  sword  (tacht)  has  a  dif- 
ferent nomenclature  from  the  above.  Its  various  parts 
are  as  follows  :  — 

Kabuto-gane  (lit.  helmet-metal) — the  cap  on  the  hilt,  cor- 
responding to  the  kashira  of  the  ordinary  sword. 

Musubi-gane  (lit.  knot-metal)  —  a  ring  attached  to  the  cap 
for  the  purpose  of  receiving  a  small  knot. 

Tsuka-ai  (lit.  hilt-companions)  —  corresponding  to  the 
menuki  of  the  ordinary  sword. 

Icbi-no-asbi  and  ni-no-ashi  (lit.  the  first  foot  and  second 
foot)  —  two  bands  with  rings  encircling  the  scabbard  to 
receive  the  sword-knot  (sage-o). 

Sbiba-biki  —  the  lowest  ring  on  the  scabbard. 

Isbi-zuki —  the  "  boot"  of  the  scabbard. 

In  order  to  reach  the  standpoint  from  which  the 
Japanese  view  these  decorative  objects,  to  learn  how 
they  were  regarded  by  connoisseurs  in  the  country  of 

211 


JAPAN 

their  manufacture,  and  to  discover  what  aims  the  best 
artists  proposed  to  themselves  in  chiselling  them,  it  is 
desirable  to  translate  the  words  of  the  author  of  the 
Soken  Kisho,  a  critical  writer  whose  treatment  of  the 
subject  is  full  and  appreciative  :  — 

GENERAL   REMARKS. 

As  a  general  rule  it  is  not  so  difficult  to  judge  the  quality 
of  the  carving  on  a  menuki,  a  kozuka,  and  so  forth  as  to  pro- 
nounce an  accurate  verdict  on  the  quality  of  the  sword-blade. 

One  must  commence  by  studying  the  chisel-marks  on  the 
works  of  the  thirteen  successive  generations  of  the  Goto 
family  —  the  iye-bori,  as  they  are  called  —  until  one  has  ac- 
quired a  thoroughly  clear  perception  of  the  characteristics  of 
each  master's  style.  This  must  be  done  with  such  diligence 
that  in  the  end  the  distinguishing  features  of  each  artist's 
work  can  be  recognised  at  a  glance.  Thus  equipped,  the 
amateur  will,  of  course,  be  in  a  position  to  discriminate  be- 
tween the  iye-bori  work  and  that  of  all  other  sculptors.  It 
is  not  enough,  however,  to  be  able  to  identify  the  manner- 
isms of  the  chisels.  The  informing  spirit  of  the  work  and 
its  art  quality  must  also  be  earnestly  studied.  This  is  the 
shortest  and  only  route  to  become  a  competent  connoisseur. 
For  the  sculpture  of  a  genius,  whether  he  belongs  to  the 
iye-bori  or  not,  is  invariably  permeated  by  a  lofty  spirit, 
whereas  that  of  the  artisan,  whatever  be  its  technical  beauty, 
lacks  elevation  of  tone  and  is  consequently  quite  inferior. 
When  once  the  connoisseur's  mind  is  furnished  with  an  in- 
telligent standard  of  refined  loftiness,  there  will  not  be  the 
least  hesitation  in  detecting  any  low  or  vulgar  features  pre- 
sented by  a  work. 

The  kozuka  and  kogai1  of  the  first  Goto  masters  (iye-bori}, 
as  well  as  of  the  experts  of  early  eras,  invariably  have  the 

1  It  will  be  observed  that  the  kozuka  and  kogai  are  the  only  parts  of  the 
sword-furniture  referred  to.  These,  in  fact,  were  the  parts  on  which  the 
great  sculptors  originally  expended  their  skill.  The  guard  (tsuba},  to  which 
the  place  of  honour  is  given  by  foreign  connoisseurs  in  general,  did  not  hold 
the  same  artistic  rank  as  the  kozuka  and  kogai  until  a  later  epoch. 

212 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

ground  covered  with  fish-roe1  (nanako}  diaper — that  is  to 
say,  very  small  granulations  like  the  roe  of  a  fish.  It  was 
formerly  a  point  of  etiquette  not  to  wear,  on  occasions  of 
ceremony,  swords  of  which  the  kozuka  and  kogai  were  without 
the  fish-roe  ground.  Those  having  the  isbime  (stone-grain) 
ground  or  the  ji-migakii  (polished  ground)  were  not  con- 
sidered suitable  for  such  occasions.  But  among  the  works 
of  the  later  iye-bori  there  are  many  that  have  not  the  nanako 
ground.  It  is  to  be  observed  that  the  fucbi  and  the  kashira 
are  not  included  in  the  rule. 

NOTE.  —  The  fucbi  and  the  kashira  do  not  properly  belong 
to  the  class  of  sword  "  ornaments,"  being,  in  fact,  essential 
parts  of  the  mounting.  They  form  with  the  seppa  and  the 
habaki  inseparable  elements  of  the  mounted  sword.  The  term 
nanako  is  derived  from  the  resemblance  that  the  microscopic 
granulations  bear  to  fish-roe.  In  the  language  of  old  Japan, 
"  fish  "  was  called  na,  and  this  with  the  suffix  ko  (egg)  made 
the  compound  na-no-ko,  or  nanako. 

None  of  the  early  representatives  of  the  Goto  family  (iye- 
bor'i]  made  a  business  of  carving  anything  but  kozuka,  me- 
nuki,  and  kogai.  Only  from  the  time  (1570-1631)  of  Tokujo, 
the  fifth  representative,  did  they  occasionally  sculpture  fuchi, 
kasbira,  and  tsuba.  Specimens  of  their  work  in  these  latter 
lines  are  very  rare,  and  should  be  correspondingly  prized. 
In  recent  times  it  is  occasionally  found  that  a  gold  crest 
(coat  of  arms)  originally  chiselled  on  a  kozuka  or  kogai  of 
old  make  has  been  detached  and  fixed  on  the  fuchi  and 
kashira,  or  on  thefuchi  alone,  or  on  the  tsuba ;  and  in  other 
cases  gold-plated  crests  or  incised  designs  have  been  newly 
attached  to,  or  cut  on,  the  original  ground.  Such  objects 
are  very  rare,  nor  would  devices  of  the  kind  have  been 
employed  by  the  masters  except  in  compliance  with  orders 
that  could  not  be  disobeyed. 

1  There  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  Japanese  took  this  idea  of  "fish- 
roe"  granulations  from  Chinese  porcelain.  One  of  the  most  admired  tours 
de  force  of  the  Chinese  keramist  was  a  glaze  completely  covered  with  tiny 
granulations  which  he  compared  to  millet  seed.  Crackle  of  the  finest  and 
most  regular  character  was  known  in  the  Middle  Kingdom  as  "fish-roe" 
crackle,  and  these  much  esteemed  grounds  must  have  inspired  the  nanako  of 
Japan. 

2IJ 


JAPAN 

It  is  a  saying  of  the  philosopher  Amamori  Hoshiu  that 
"  in  art  there  are  four  grades,  the  inferior  (kefa),  the  skilled 
(kosha\  the  expert  (jozu),  and  the  master  (meijiri)"  and  that 
"  the  same  classification  applies  to  the  conduct  of  the  gentle- 
man." In  such  wise,  also,  may  be  distinguished  the  merits 
of  carvers.  Adopting  that  principle  in  compiling  this  work, 
I  have  divided  the  carvers  of  sword-furniture  into  three 
ranks.  Natural  talent  combined  with  the  skill  acquired  by 
long  practice  constitutes  the  "  master,"  who  stands  at  the 
highest  point  of  his  art.  Next  comes  the  "  expert,"  con- 
cerning whom,  however,  a  triple  subdivision  must  be  made  : 
namely,  the  expert  who  ranks  next  to  and  immediately  after 
the  master  ;  then  the  expert  who,  though  originally  of  "  in- 
ferior" ability,  has  nevertheless  by  zealous  and  patient  effort 
developed  the  skill  which  ought  to  be  the  aim  of  every  stu- 
dent ;  finally,  the  expert  who  by  conceiving  and  executing 
some  attractive  novelty,  obtains  the  passing  plaudits  of  a  curi- 
ous public,  but  whose  works  ultimately  lose  their  charm  and 
stand  revealed  as  unworthy  of  lasting  admiration.  All  artists 
that  do  not  rise  to  the  rank  of  "  master  "  or  "  expert  "  may 
be  classed  as  "common."  There  are  certainly  gradations 
among  these  last,  but  the  sum  of  the  matter  is  that  they  be- 
long to  the  "  inferior "  order  and  are  persons  of  vulgar 
endowments.  In  every  art  the  idea  is  first  conceived,  and 
the  hand  thereafter  moves  in  obedience  to  the  mind.  The 
loftier  the  mind,  the  nobler  the  execution.  An  artist  who 
produces  inferior  work  should  be  ashamed  rather  than  proud. 
The  connoisseur  of  art  objects  must  apply  the  same  principle 
in  forming  his  judgments.  Nobility  of  mind,  absolute  im- 
partiality, and  entire  disinterestedness  are  the  three  essentials 
of  a  sound  critic. 

The  old-time  carvers  set  out  by  learning  from  their  mas- 
ters how  to  handle  the  chisel,  and  when  they  had  acquired 
skill  in  the  technical  processes,  they  made  their  own  designs 
and  sought  to  develop  a  special  style.  Thus,  even  those 
that  did  not  rise  to  the  level  of  "  experts  "  often  produced 
works  showing  skill,  force,  and  graces  of  composition.  So 
degenerate,  on  the  contrary,  are  modern  carvers  that  if  they 
find  an  old  work  of  fine  quality,  they  carefully  copy  it  by 
taking  an  impression.  But  their  unskilled  use  of  the  chisel 

214 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

easily  betrays  them,  for  their  execution  is  invariably  prolix 
and  awkward.  None  the  less  when,  after  long  toil  and 
much  pain,  they  have  succeeded  in  carving,  polishing,  and 
colouring,  they  fondly  imagine  themselves  great  artists, 
and  with  consummate  silliness  inscribe  their  names  on  these 
productions,  pointing  the  finger  of  scorn  at  other  sculptors. 
It  is  with  the  carver  as  with  the  painter.  The  good  pictorial 
artist,  after  acquiring  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  uses  of 
the  brush  as  taught  by  his  master,  copies  many  fine  old 
pictures  and  studies  them  earnestly,  so  that,  when  he  comes 
to  paint  independently,  he  has  always  before  his  mind's  eye 
a  model  showing  the  inimitably  exquisite  points  of  the  great 
chefs-d'oeuvre  of  the  past.  But  he  never  prostitutes  his 
natural  talent  so  far  as  to  make  slavish  imitations.  Thus 
every  touch  of  his  brush  is  eloquent  of  original  talent,  and 
the  true  critic  cannot  fail  to  detect  the  merits  of  his  work. 
Very  different  is  the  practice  of  the  "  inferior "  painter. 
His  solicitude  is  almost  entirely  about  the  motive  of  his 
picture,  scarcely  at  all  about  the  brush-work.  He  is  not 
versed  even  in  the  rudimentary  art  of  using  the  "  charred 
stick  "  (yaki-fude]  to  change  the  scale  of  a  drawing,  or  to 
alter  the  shape  of  the  figures.  He  prefers  to  make  tracings 
of  old  pictures  and  to  reproduce  them  with  elaborate  accu- 
racy. There  are  not  a  few  of  these  imitators,  and  the 
connoisseur,  whether  of  painting  or  of  sculpture,  must  needs 
be  on  his  guard  lest  he  deceive  others  as  well  as  himself. 

One  naturally  supposes  that  men  like  Joi,  Somin,  Toshi- 
hisa,  Yasuchika,  and  other  masters,  who,  by  giving  birth  to 
a  glyptic  style  of  their  own,  achieved  world-wide  fame,  and 
whose  doors  were  thronged  by  eager  applicants  for  their 
productions,  must  have  amassed  much  wealth.  But  it  is 
impossible  for  a  man  to  be  great  in  art  and  mercenary  at  the 
same  time.  The  common  craftsman,  as  he  bends  over  his 
task,  is  for  ever  estimating  the  wage  it  will  bring.  Thus  the 
taint  of  covetousness  is  inevitably  transferred  to  his  work, 
constituting  a  feature  which  becomes  more  and  more  repel- 
lent as  time  goes  by,  and  finally  banishes  the  specimen  to 
some  degraded  shop  of  a  dealer  in  old  metal.  The  true 
artist,  though  conscious  that  he  toils  for  a  living,  has  his 
recollection  of  the  fact  effaced  by  love  for  his  work.  At 

215   ' 


JAPAN 

times  he  will  lay  aside  his  chisel  for  months  if  he  finds  that 
his  heart  is  not  in  his  work.  When  the  inspiration  arrives, 
however,  he  becomes  so  completely  absorbed  in  his  task  that 
he  cannot  bear  to  lay  it  aside,  day  or  night,  until  it  is  fin- 
ished. There  is  vitality  in  the  result  :  it  is  surpassingly 
good.  But  if  the  question  of  gain  be  considered,  it  is  found 
that  although  the  productions  of  the  master  fetch  a  high 
price,  the  profit  to  him  is  not  as  great  as  that  accruing  from 
inferior  work  quickly  executed  and  cheaply  sold.  The 
poet  Basho  says,  "  Pity  it  is  that  the  shira-uo  (a  tiny  river- 
fish  of  silvery  transparency  and  almost  colourless)  should 
have  a  price."  A  great  artist  is  injured  when  the  price  of 
his  work  is  discussed :  it  should  be  above  price.  Business 
men  would  do  well  to  lay  this  precept  to  heart :  "  Only  to 
accumulate  gold  and  silver  is  to  be  their  slave."  The  true 
aim  should  be  to  develop  an  extensive  trade  and  to  achieve 
a  great  career,  just  as  the  artist  cherishes  and  strives  for  the 
reputation  of  his  art  rather  than  of  himself. 

The  chefs-d'oeuvre  of  the  thirteen  Goto  masters  as  well  as 
those  of  other  celebrities  are,  for  the  most  part,  treasured  as 
precious  heirlooms  in  the  families  that  possess  them.  They 
seldom  come  into  the  hands  of  the  dealer.  On  the  rare 
occasions,  however,  when  one  of  these  gems  does  pass  into 
a  merchant's  keeping,  some  one  is  always  charmed  by  it,  and 
has  a  great  mind  to  buy  it,  but  cannot  readily  persuade  him- 
self to  pay  the  price,  and  so  asks  the  dealer  to  let  him  keep 
it  for  a  time,  during  which  he  privately  consults  the  opinions 
of  other  dealers  as  to  the  proper  figure.  That  man's  chief 
aim  is  to  come  into  cheap  possession  of  a  great  work,  and 
happily  he  is  almost  always  disappointed.  He  does  an 
injustice  to  the  work.  The  nobility  that  gives  greatness 
to  an  artist's  efforts,  the  quality  that  brings  genuine  success 
to  the  trader,  the  appreciation  that  enables  us  to  acquire  fine 
objects  of  virtu,  —  these  things  are  inaccessible  unless  the 
mind  be  set  upon  a  high  ideal.  Sometimes  valuable  master- 
pieces are  found  among  specimens  supposed  to  be  common, 
and  a  fortunate  discovery  is  called  "  unearthing  a  treasure  " 
(horidashi).  The  discoverer  boasts  of  it,  but  if  he  had  true 
elevation  of  mind  and  refinement  of  taste,  he  would  be  above 
such  pettiness.  It  is  the  luck  of  the  mere  trader. 

216 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

MISCELLANEOUS   REMARKS 

Fugitive  references  to  the  fact  that  swords  have  been  more 
or  less  ornamented  from  ancient  times  are  found  in  old  rec- 
ords, and  it  is  said  that  some  learned  antiquarians  claim  to 
have  information  about  the  matter.  But  it  is  exceedingly 
difficult  to  ascertain  the  exact  circumstances  relating  to  the 
origin  of  the  ornaments  known  under  the  general  name 
kodogu  (small  furniture).  Doubtless  they  were  suggested  at 
the  outset  by  some  idea  of  utility.  It  is  only  possible  to 
state  here  the  views  embodied  in  mediaeval  annals  and  enter- 
tained by  scholars  of  modern  times.  In  old  families  of 
artists  and  among  persons  that  give  professional  instruction 
in  polite  accomplishments  many  opinions  have  been  handed 
down  traditionally.  Sometimes  these  opinions  are  kept 
mysteriously  secret,  but  of  course  they  become  known  at  last, 
and  then  too  often  they  are  found  to  be  conflicting  or  to  be 
based  on  some  silly  theories  about  the  "  Five  Elements  "  of 
Chinese  philosophy.  Everything  of  that  kind  is  excluded 
from  this  volume. 

MENVKI   (RIVET-NUT) 

The  menuki  was  originally  a  species  of  "  nut"  into  which 
were  inserted  the  ends  of  the  rivet  (mekugf)  used  for  attach- 
ing the  haft  of  the  sword  to  the  hilt.  Thus  the  menuki  not 
only  held  the  rivet  in  its  place,  but  also  covered  its  ends  (vide 
the  learned  Hakuseki's  treatise  on  arms  and  armour).  But 
in  later  days  the  mekugi  and  the  menuki  became  quite  distinct. 
An  old-time  poet  writes :  ".Whose  son  is  he,  girding  on  a 
sword  with  silver  menuki^  that  walks  the  streets  of  Nara 
city  ?  "  from  which  it  may  be  inferred  that  the  tachi  (curved 
sword)  of  the  Nara  epoch  (eighth  century)  had  sometimes 
silver  ornaments.  Again,  in  the  Annals  of  the  Kamakura 
Era,  mention  is  made  of  an  "  ox-shaped  menuki"  but  noth- 
ing is  said  of  its  material  or  of  its  maker.  The  menuki  chis- 
elled in  high  relief,  as  used  in  the  present  day,  is  supposed  to 
have  been  first  made  by  Goto  Yujo  (1439-1512),  but  whether 
there  were  any  such  before  his  time  is  not  known.  Tradi- 
tion affirms  that  before  Yujo's  era  there  lived  an  artist  called 

217 


JAPAN 

Ichikawa  Hirosuke,  who,  working  with  three  kinds  of  chisel 
only,  originated  the  decorative  sculpture  of  sword  ornaments 
as  it  is  now  known.  However  that  may  be,  the  world  cer- 
tainly recognises  Yujo  as  the  father  of  the  art.  Possibly  the 
natural  pride  of  the  Goto  family  is  in  some  degree  respon- 
sible for  this  fact,  but  their  pre-eminent  achievements  have 
silenced  too  close  scrutiny  into  dates.  It  is  beyond  question, 
however,  that  so  far  as  the  menuki  are  concerned,  the  idea  of 
giving  to  them  various  shapes  according  to  the  fancy  of  their 
owner  was  already  in  vogue  during  the  time  (1334—1573) 
of  the  Ashi.kaga  SKoguns  sway  in  Kyoto,  and  continued  to 
be  in  fashion  until  the  menuki  became  objects  of  artistic 
rivalry.  Whether  anything  of  the  kind  existed  in  China  is 
not  known. 

KOZUKA   (DAGGER) 

It  is  not  certain  when  the  kozuka  first  came  to  be  carried 
in  the  scabbard  of  the  companion  sword  (wakizashi).  In 
the  Taira  Annals  (I'aibei-ki)  there  is  a  description  of  the 
assassination  of  Prince  Oto  by  Fuchibe,  chieftain  of  Iga 
(1335  A.D.)  :  "  Drawing  the  katana  of  the  companion  sword, 
he  plunged  it  twice  into  the  heart  of  the  prince."  The  katana 
here  mentioned  seems  to  have  been  the  present  kozuka.  .  .  . 
On  the  whole,  it  may  be  concluded  that  the  custom  of  carry- 
ing the  kozuka  in  the  scabbard  of  the  short-sword  had  its 
origin  in  the  Ashikaga  era  (fourteenth  century). 

KOGAI    (HAIRPIN) 

The  word  kogai  is  another  way  of  pronouncing  kamikaki 
(hair  comb.)  There  is  ample  evidence  to  prove  this,  as  well 
as  to  show  that  the  kogai  was  actually  used  in  old  times  for 
combing  the  hair.  When  helmets  were  worn,  the  hair 
naturally  became  dishevelled,  and  the  kogai  consequently 
became  an  essential  of  the  warrior's  equipment. 

FUCHI  KASHIRA  (RiNG  AND  TIP) 

There  is  no  explanation  of  the  custom  which  commonly 
groups  these  objects  together  and  speaks  of  the  fuchi-gashira 

218 


S  WO  R  D-F  U  RN  I  T  U  R  E 

as  though  they  were  necessarily  associated.  They  are  essen- 
tial parts  of  the  sword,  and  though  now  highly  ornate,  they 
cannot  be  properly  classed  as  sword  ornaments. 


TSUBA  (GUARD) 

This  term  is  derived  from  the  name  of  a  kind  of  cotton- 
spinning  spindle  which  had  a  ring  fixed  on  it.  The  tsuba  of 
course  existed  from  a  very  ancient  epoch.  It  is  mentioned 
in  annals  compiled  in  the  eighth  century,  and  is  often  spoken 
of  as  neri-tsuba  (wrought-iron  guard).  The  sword  of  Takauji, 
preserved  at  Atago-san,  has  a  guard  of  wrought  iron,  and  in 
the  Taira  Annals  (Taihei-ki]  gold  guards  are  referred  to. 

N.B.  Sometimes  a  specimen  which  does  not  bear  a  name 
indicating  that  it  belongs  to  the  class  of  either  iye-bori  (carvings 
of  the  principal  Goto  family)  or  domyo-bori  (carvings  of  the 
branch  Goto  families),  but  which  is  nevertheless  of  such  fine 
workmanship  as  to  suggest  that  it  came  from  a  master's 
chisel,  is  sent  to  the  Goto  family  for  inspection,  and  returned 
with  a  written  statement,  "  found  inferior  on  examination 
and  not  identified  by  us."  The  dealers  call  such  specimens 
"  rejects  "  (nageraresht),  and  it  is  said  that  the  Goto  experts 
put  a  chisel  mark  —  the  gimmi-tagane —  on  all  these  pieces, 
so  that  they  can  be  at  once  recognised  if  submitted  again  for 
examination,  but  where  the  mark  is  placed  the  family  never 
divulges. 

N.B.  The  double  kogai  (wari-kogat),  which  is  usually 
decorated  with  carvings  of  a  plum-tree  and  a  brushwood 
fence,  or  of  bamboo,  flowers,  and  plants,  generally  goes  by 
the  name  of  fayukogai,  because  its  reputed  originator  (Kahei) 
became  a  skilled  singer  and  received  the  musical  title 
tayu. 

N.B.  In  the  chiselling  of  the  fish-roe  ground  (nanako] 
slight  differences  are  observable  between  the  works  of  the 
artists  of  Yedo,  Kaga,  Kyoto,  Awa,  and  so  on.  A  good 
judge  of  carving  must  be  familiar  with  these  differences,  but 
it  is  useless  to  attempt  any  written  description  of  them. 


219 


JAPAN 


THE  FOURTEEN  GENERATIONS  OF  THE  GOTO  FAMILY 

1.  Yujo — the  founder  of  the  family,  true  name  Masa- 
oki  Shirobei  —  held  the  title  of  "  Sado-no-kami  "  (lord  of 
Sado),     A  native  of  Mino,  he  served  in  a  military  capacity 
under  the  Ashikaga  chieftain,  Yoshinori.     Born  in  1439,  ne 
died  in   1512,  at  the  age  of  seventy-three.     Yujo  obtained 
many  of  his  designs  from  the  celebrated  painter  Kano  Masa- 
nobu.     He   is  regarded  as    the  founder  of  the  school    of 
sword-decorators,  and  his  works  possess  great  value.     He 
invented  the  style  of  chiselling  called  taka-bori  (carving  in 
high  relief),  and  his  work  is  almost  supernaturally  skilled. 
It  may  be  compared  to  the  "exquisite  view  of  Gobi's  snow- 
clad  peak  towering  lofty  in  the  sky  "  (from  a  Chinese  poet), 
or  to  the  weeping-willow  in  the  Imperial  garden  as  it  waves 
in  the  soft  breeze,  or  to  the  lovely  lotus  in   the  fairy  lake 
washed  by  pearls  of  dew.     So  elevated  is  the  tone,  so  delight- 
fully chaste  the  character,  of  the  carving  that  one  cannot  look 
at  it  without  emotion.     The  traces  of  the  chisel  are  at  once 
bold  and  delicate,  and  every  part  of  the  work  stands  out 
vivid  and   almost  divine.     Yujo   may  truly   be  called   the 
"  Saint  of  the  Art." 

2.  Sojo,  true  name  of  Takemitsu  Shirobei,  was  the  son  of 
Yujo.     He  received  the  art  title  Hogen.     Born  1486  ;  died 
1564.      His  work  resembles  that  of  his  father  so  closely  as 
to   be   almost  indistinguishable.     The  carvings  of  the   two 
masters  may  be  compared  to  the  iris  and  the  sweet  flag,  dis- 
tinct plants  which  nevertheless  bear  a  strong  likeness  to  each 
other  in  colour,  fragrance,  and  even  time  of  flowering. 

3.  Joshin,  true  name  Yoshihisa  Shirobei,  was  the  son  of 
Sojo.     Born  1511;   died  1562.     The  marks   of  the  chisel 
are  sharp  ;  the  relief  very  high  and  the  depression  deep.     It 
is  strong  work.     In  making  a  menuki  of  shakudo  or  gold,  he 
beat  it  into  the  desired  form,  and  then  added  the  plating  in 
colours.     This  method  was    called  uchidashi  (repousse\  and 
the  addition  of  the  coloured  metals  without  fracturing  the 
ground  was    known  as  uttori.     This  style  obtained  much 
vogue  in  Joshin's  time,  but   is   less  fashionable   now.      The 

220 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

art  of  inlaying  (zogan],  as  applied  to  sword  ornaments,  was 
also  inaugurated  by  Joshin,  and  his  productions  are  the  most 
varied  and  peculiar  of  the  iye-bori  works.  His  work  may  be 
compared  to  a  brave  warrior  who  is  not  only  a  strong  guar- 
dian but  also  a  trusty  councillor ;  for  while  it  has  boldness 
and  strength,  it  has  also  something  of  delicacy  and  soft- 
ness. He  bore  a  different  art-flower,  but  the  same  fruit  as 
his  predecessor. 

4.  Kwojo,  called  also   Mitsuiye,  was  born  in    1530,  and 
died  in   1620.     He   was  a  son  of  Joshin.     His  work  re- 
sembles that  of  Yujo  in  style.     It  is  noble  and   dignified, 
neither  too  strong  nor  too  weak.     The  impression  it  con- 
veys is  that  of  resting  under  the  green  shadow  of  a  patri- 
archal pine  and  looking  out  on   a  glow  of  cherry  bloom. 
Or  it  may  be  compared  to  a  noble  lady  standing  beside  the 
brushwood  gate  of  a  rustic  dwelling. 

5.  Tokujo,  called  also  Mitsutsugu,  was  the  son  of  Kwojo. 
Born   1549  ;  died    1631.     Hideyoshi,  the   Taikb,  conferred 
an  estate  on    him    in    the  year  1580.     His  work  has  the 
characteristic  of  strong  surface  modelling,  and  many  speci- 
mens  are  scarcely  distinguishable  from  those  of  his  father 
Kwojo.     Looking  at  his  designs,  one  is  reminded  of  white 
sails  scattered  near  and  far  over  the  wide  bosom  of  the  sea 
when  the  brooding  breath  of  spring   softens  their  outlines. 
It  was  in  Tokujo's  time  that  the  custom  originated  of  issu- 
ing certificates  of  authenticity  (orikami]  with  the  works  of 
the  Goto  family.     One  of  his  sons,  Chojo,  became  the  foun- 
der of  a  branch  of  the  family  known  as  the  "  Shimo-Goto" 
(lower  Goto). 

6.  Yeijo,  called  also  Masamitsu,  the  son  of  Tokujo,  was 
born  in  1574  and  died  in   1617.     His  work  combines  the 
finished  skill  of  both   Kwojo  and  Tokujo,  and   has,  at   the 
same  time,  a  certain  quality  of  richness,  tenderness,  and  rest- 
fulness.     One  may  find  a  comparison  in  the  view  of  a  little 
boy  driving  an  ox  to   pasture   on  a  verdant  plain ;  or  the 
carriage  of  a  nobleman  standing  beside  a  rustic  fence  over 
which  convolvulus   blossoms  cluster. 

7.  Kenjo,  called  also  Masatsugu,  was  a  son  of  Tokujo. 
He    represented    the    family    during    the    minority    of    his 
nephew  Sokujo,  and  was  promoted  to  the  rank  of  Hokkyo. 

221 


JAPAN 

Born  1585;  died  1663.  His  manner  of  using  the  chisel 
greatly  resembled  that  of  Kwojo.  One  is  reminded  of 
a  pine-tree  and  a  bamboo  covered  with  snow  :  they  present 
a  delightful  contrast,  but  at  heart  retain  the  same  changeless 
green.  The  fidelity  and  chastity  of  his  work  force  them- 
selves into  notice.  During  the  Kwanyei  era  (1625—1643) 
his  services  were  engaged  by  the  feudal  chief  of  Kaga,  who 
gave  him  a  pension  of  150  koku  of  rice  annually  (about  1,500 
yen),  and  he  made  it  a  custom  thenceforth  to  live  in  Kaga 
every  second  year. 

8.  Sokujo,  called  also  Mitsushige,  was  the  son  of  Yeijo. 
Born  1603  ;  died  1631.     His  style  resembles  that  of  Kenjo, 
and   is    characterised   by    directness,  strength,   and   vigour. 
Connoisseurs  are  wont  to  class  the  works  of  Yujo,  Kojo,  and 
Kenjo  as  the •" three  chefs-d'oeuvre"  (sansaku),  but  specimens 
by  Sokujo  are  exchangeable  with  those  of  Kenjo.     There 
is  a  notion  that  something  of  the  value  attaching  to  Sokujo's 
works  is  due  to  their  rarity,  for  as  he  died  at  the  early  age  of 
twenty-eight,  his  productions  were  not  numerous.     But  that 
is  a  mistake.     He  was  a  veritable  genius,  and  to  that  fact 
alone  is  due  the  esteem   in  which  his  carvings  are  held.      It 
is  believed  by  good  judges  that  had   he  lived  longer  and 
attained  the  mastery   of  technique  which   many  years   of 
effort  can  alone  give,  he  would  even  have  surpassed  his  an- 
cestors, and  a  sympathetic  perception  of  his  latent  capacities 
has  something  to  do  with  the  rank  accorded  to  him  by  pos- 
terity.     In  the  same  way  connoisseurs  often  class  the  works 
of  Tsujo  (eleventh  representative),  Sokujo,  and  Kwojo  as  the 
three  chefs-d 'ceuvre^  declining  to  include  the  sculptures   of 
Yujo,  whom  they  place  in  a  rank  by  himself  as  a  divine  and 
matchless  master.     That  is  a  point  of  delicacy. 

9.  Teijo,  called  also  Mitsumasa,  the  son  of  Kenjo,  was 
born  in  1603,  and  died  in  1673.     He  represented  the  family 
during  the  minority  of  his  nephew   Renjo.     He  was  pro- 
moted to  the  art  rank  of  Hokkyo.     His  works  are  at  once 
charming,   noble,  and  dignified.     It  is   impossible  to  deny 
their  title  to  be  called  masterpieces.     Though  his  time  was 
not  very  remote  from  our  own  era  (1781),  his  carvings  have 
the  peculiar  aspect  of  age  presented  by  the  work  of  Kwojo 
and  the  other  early  masters.     The  chisel-marks  are  some- 

222 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

what  deep,  clear,  and  strong.  His  designs  suggest  the  feel- 
ing experienced  when,  looking  out  under  the  bamboo  blinds 
from  the  upper  room  of  a  lofty  riverside  dwelling,  one  sees 
the  moon  rise  on  an  autumn  evening.  This  artist  succeeded 
to  the  pension  of  his  father  Kenjo,  and  used  to  live  in  Kana- 
zawa  (chief  town  of  Kaga)  every  second  year.  In  the  house 
that  he  inhabited  there  may  still  be  seen  a  stone  garden-ewer 
with  the  figure  of  Hakuga  (a  Chinese  poet)  engraved  on  it 
by  the  chisel  of  Teijo.  It  is  said  that  during  Teijo's  time 
the  Goto  family  employed  a  number  of  Kyoto  chisellers  to 
do  rough  work. 

10.  Renjo,  called   also   Mitsutomo,  son  of  Sokujo,  was 
born  in  1626  and  died  1708.     His  work  is  gentle  and  mag- 
nanimous in  tone.     It  reminds  one  of  the  quiet,  subdued 
style  in  which  the  story  of  Akashi  is  told  by  the  author  of 
the   Minamoto   Annals   (Genji   Monogatari).     He   lived  to 
a  ripe  old  age  and  had  many  pupils,  so  that  his  works  are 
often  found.     A  son  of  his  called  Mitsuyoshi  gave  promise 
of  future  greatness,  but  unfortunately  died  young  and  few 
specimens  exist  from  his  chisel. 

11.  Tsujo,  called  also  M itsutoshi,  was  the  son  of  Senjo 
and  grandson  of  Teijo.     He  did  not  belong  to  the  elder 
branch  of  the  family.     Born  in  1668,  he  died  1721.     His 
works  are  classed  among  the  "  three  chefs-tf  ceuvre  (san-saku)" 
His  style  is  somewhat  showy.     One  can  almost  smell  the  fra- 
grance of  the  flowers  he  chiselled,  his  birds  seem  to  be  on 
the  point  of  flying  or  in  actual  flight,  and  his  human  figures 
smile  as  though  words  hovered  on  their  lips.     His  sculp- 
tures are  in   truth   beautiful    beyond   expression.     Chinese 
annals  tell  of  a  puppet  presented  by  a  certain  artist  to  a  great 
monarch,  and  describe  how  the  figure  sang  and  danced  auto- 
matically.    That  was  a  mere  mechanical  contrivance  for  the 
amusement  of  the   moment.     Very  different  is   the  air  of 
vivid  vitality  imparted  to  his  sculpture  by  the  master-artist. 
There  is  no  actual  motion  to  strike  the  eye  of  the  common 
observer,  but  there  is  a  latent  force  that  imparts  to  every- 
thing the  element  of  motion,  and  creates  a  precious  picture 
to  be  for  ever  esteemed  and  admired. 

12.  Jujo,  called  also  Mitsumasa,  son  of  Tsujo,  was  born 
in  1694  and  died  in  1742.     His  work  differs  from  that  of 

223 


JAPAN 

Tsujo.  It  resembles  the  best  productions  of  Mitsutaka, 
the  present  (1781)  representative  of  the  family.  One  is 
reminded  of  a  man  reaching  his  goal  by  steadily  treading 
the  right  road.  There  is  also  an  element  of  balanced 
strength  that  suggests  the  fabulous  serpent  of  Jozan,  which 
could  defend  itself  equally  with  either  end. 

13.  Yenjo,  called  also  Mitsutaka ;  son  of  Jujo,  was  born 
in   1720  and   died    in    1784.     Criticised   unreservedly,   his 
works  seem  to  vary  in  quality.     The  best  are  not  unlike  the 
productions  of  Tsujo,  for  which   they  may  easily   be  mis- 
taken.    The  lustre  of  his  house  is  not  tarnished,  nor  the 
long-sustained    reputation    of  his    family    impaired,   in    his 
hands. 

Since  the  death  of  Yujo,  the  founder  of  the  family,  two 
hundred  and  sixty  years  have  passed.  During  that  time  the 
works  of  the  masters  from  generation  to  generation  have 
found  their  way  into  the  hands  of  the  great  and  the  noble, 
who  treasure  them  as  precious  possessions,  their  value  aug- 
menting as  time  rolls  on.  That  is  because  the  art  of  the 
illustrious  ancestor  has  been  adorned  by  the  achievements 
of  his  descendants,  every  one  of  whom  was  himself  a  master. 
These  happy  results  are  mainly  due,  however,  to  the  peace- 
ful sway  by  which  we  are  blessed,  and  to  the  tranquil  times 
when  men  have  leisure  to  show  their  respect  for  the  dignity 
of  a  sword  by  the  decoration  they  lavish  on  its  mountings. 

14.  Keijo,  called  also  Mitsumori,  son  of  Yenjo,  was  born 
in  1 739,  and  is  still  living  (1781)  in  the  Kyobashi  district  of 
Yedo.     The  work  of  this  artist  has  the  beauty  of  his  grand- 
father Tsujo's  carving,  together   with  the  well-balanced  ar- 
rangement of  his  predecessors.     His  style  is  his  own.     There 
is  a  tender  suggestiveness  about  his   designs  that  reminds 
one  of  a  light  shower  sweeping  across  the  verdant  slope  of 
a  mountain,  or  a  soft  haze  resting  on  the  bosom  of  a  limpid 
lake.      His  work  always  shows  that  noble  elevation  of  tone 
which  belongs  to  the  true  artist  and  can  never  be  imitated. 

N.  B.  Here  follow  facsimiles  of  the  certificates  orikami 
(lit.  "folded  paper")  given  by  the  Goto  experts,  but  such 
documents  convey  no  information  to  foreign  readers,  and, 
moreover,  have  been  so  often  and  so  successfully  forged  that 
to  distinguish  the  true  from  the  false  is  now  almost  as  diffi- 

224 


WOODEN    BRACKETS. 

Carved  by  Matsumoto  Kisaburo. 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

cult  as  to  judge  the  qualities  and  identify  the  sculptor  of  the 
art  objects  to  which  they  refer. 

The  reader  will  agree  that  these  commentaries  from 
the  pen  of  a  Japanese  connoisseur  convey  a  truer  and 
more  trustworthy  idea  of  the  attitude  of  the  Japanese 
mind  towards  the  work  of  the  sculptor  of  sword- 
ornaments,  and,  indeed,  toward  art  in  general,  than 
could  possibly  be  gathered  from  a  foreign  analysis. 
Even  the  most  intelligent  and  least  prejudiced  foreign 
student  has  much,  nay,  insuperable,  difficulty  in  trac- 
ing the  exact  processes  of  Japanese  intelligence.  The 
Japanese  are  quiet  folks.  They  never  expatiate  upon 
beauties  presumably  as  obvious  to  others  as  to  them- 
selves; never  enter  into  perfervid  disquisitions  about 
the  "  features  "  of  a  natural  or  an  artificial  picture. 
To  do  so  would  be  to  slight  the  eloquence  of  the 
picture  itself  and  to  insult  the  intelligence  of  the  ob- 
server. A  Japanese  collector,  unless  his  habits  of 
thought  and  speech  have  been  radically  modified  by 
intercourse  with  Occidentals,  will  show  the  whole  of 
his  treasures  —  if,  indeed,  he  can  be  induced  to  show 
them  at  all  —  without  making,  from  first  to  last,  the 
briefest  comment  on  their  "  points."  The  sole  ex- 
ception is  in  the  case  of  an  object  which  claims  the 
reverence  of  association, — an  object  once  honoured 
by  the  ownership  of  some  celebrated  warrior,  states- 
man, or  litterateur,  and  hallowed  by  the  "  odile  "  (ko- 
taku}  of  his  touch.  Concerning  the  origin  of  such  a 
treasure  he  will  volunteer  some  information,  its  story 
being  otherwise  untraceable.  But  whatever  is  within 
the  unaided  reach  of  expert  observation,  he  leaves  to  be 
observed.  His  silence  has  been  greatly  misinterpreted. 
The  ordinary  foreigner  construes  it  as  evidence  either 
of  undeveloped  speech  or  of  an  unfurnished  mind. 

VOL.     VII. 15  225 


JAPAN 

Strange  conclusions  surely,  the  one  involving  the  hy- 
pothesis that  the  silent  vocabulary  of  a  people's  shaping 
art  may  be  richer  than  the  spoken  vocabulary  of  the 
idealism  informing  that  art ;  the  other,  the  still  more 
unreasonable  assumption  that  a  nation  can  be  blind 
to  the  beauties  of  its  own  creation.  Michitaka's  com- 
ments on  the  works  of  the  Goto  sculptors  dispel  all 
these  delusions.  Some  of  his  comparisons  may  sound 
even  extravagant.  They  are  not  extravagantly  ex- 
pressed, however.  Nothing  could  be  simpler  than 
the  language  in  which  they  are  couched.  Nature 
speaks  to  the  Japanese  in  words  of  clearest  meaning. 
Other  eyes  drink  in  just  as  deep  a  draught  of  enchant- 
ment from  sunset  on  "  the  happy  autumn  fields  "  or 
from  moonlight  bathing  a  cherry  grove  in  spring ;  but 
it  may  be  truly  said  of  the  Japanese  that  in  the  course 
of  long  centuries  of  refined  civilisation,  they  have 
gradually  grouped  together  nature's  fairest  combina- 
tions into  a  series  of  ideograms  each  of  which  has  come 
to  be  intimately  associated  with  conceptions  and  emo- 
tions which  the  physical  aspects  of  the  scene  alone 
could  not  suggest  or  inspire.  There  exists  a  wide  field 
of  thought  which,  though  open  to  poetry,  is  closed  to 
the  arts  of  manual  imitation.  But  from  what  does 
poetry  derive  its  special  sway  over  regions  of  the  mind 
that  lie  beyond  the  direct  influence  of  imitative  art  ? 
Is  it  not  from  its  power  of  invoking  from  the  recesses 
of  the  heart  feelings  and  experiences  to  which  the 
painter  or  sculptor  can  appeal  only  by  accidental  asso- 
ciation ?  In  Japan,  however,  poetry  has  so  constantly 
and  faithfully  drawn  its  inspiration  from  nature's  im- 
ages, and  has  been  so  loyally  content  to  limit  itself  to 
appreciated  interpretations  of  their  suggestions,  that 
mere  mention  of  a  particular  combination  of  natural 

226 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

beauties  summons  to  Japanese  sight  a  picture  of  con- 
crete loveliness  and  to  the  Japanese  mind  a  poem  of 
abstract  ideas.  Thus,  when  Michitaka  speaks  of  "  a 
light  shower  sweeping  across  the  verdant  slope  of  a 
mountain,"  or  of  "  a  soft  haze  resting  on  the  bosom 
of  a  limpid  lake,"  or  of  "  white  sails  on  a  wide  sea, 
their  outlines  softened  by  the  brooding  breath  of 
spring,"  he  knows  that  he  is  recalling  to  educated 
minds,  not  only  delightful  images,  but  also  certain 
subtleties  of  artistic  conception  and  certain  shades  of 
emotion  which  convey  his  meaning  with  accuracy 
such  as  no  mere  verbal  analysis  could  achieve. 

The  above  remarks  apply  to  the  style  and  the  tech- 
nique only  of  the  art.  The  author  of  the  Soken  Kisbo 
seldom  makes  reference  to  decorative  motives,  unless  a 
sculptor's  fame  is  connected  with  some  special  depar- 
ture in  that  direction.  The  quality  of  the  chiselling 
is,  in  fact,  the  first  point  to  which  the  Japanese  con- 
noisseur directs  his  attention.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  decorative  design  is  the  prime  object  of  the  Occi- 
dental dilettante's  admiration.  In  "L'Art  Japonais" 
that  most  appreciative  critic,  M.  Gonse,  says :  — 

On  se  blase  vite  sur  1'adresse  technique  des  ciseleurs 
Japonais,  tant  elle  semble  chez  eux  un  don  de  nature  ;  mais 
on  eprouve  une  jouissance  toujours  nouvelle  dans  1'etude  du 
decor  lui-meme.  Quel  tact,  quelle  souplesse  !  Comme  les 
deux  cotes  so  completent  harmonieusement !  Car,  bien  sou- 
vent,  le  sujet  se  continue  sur  le  face  et  sur  le  revers  et  presente 
dans  chacune  de  ces  parties  le  meme  interet.  Quelquefois 
meme  il  chevauche  sur  le  grand  et  le  petit  sabre.  On  verra 
Sh5ki,  sur  la  grande  garde  poursuivant  le  diable  qui  se  cache 
sur  la  petite ;  dans  Tune,  Komachi  nous  apprait  jeune  et  re- 
splendissante  de  beaute;  dans  1'autre,  vielle  et  courbee  par 
1'age,  &c.  L' etude  du  microcosme  de  cet  art  pourrait  con- 
duire  a  1'infini. 

727 


JAPAN 

The  standpoint  of  the  French  connoisseur's  eulogy 
is  as  far  removed  as  possible  from  the  standpoint  of 
the  Japanese  themselves.  The  fact  is  that  M.  Gonse, 
who  must  be  taken  as  representing  the  most  intelli- 
gent class  of  Occidental  students  of  Japanese  art,  rivets 
his  attention  on  the  work  of  the  painter  rather  than 
on  that  of  the  sculptor  ;  considers  the  pictorial  motive 
in  preference  to  the  glyptic  method.  Now,  as  a  rule 
with  very  rare  exceptions,  the  decorative  motives  of 
Japanese  sword-furniture  were  always  supplied  by 
painters.  There  exist  innumerable  volumes  of  de- 
signs from  the  brushes  of  more  or  less  renowned 
artists,  and  to  these  the  sculptor  habitually  referred  for 
inspiration.  All  classes  of  art-artisans  possessed  such 
volumes,  and  were  prepared  to  submit  them  for  a 
customer's  choice  of  motive.  Hence  it  is  that  the 
Japanese  connoisseur  draws  a  clear  line  of  distinction 
between  the  decorative  design  and  its  technical  exe- 
cution, crediting  the  former  to  the  pictorial  artist,  the 
latter  to  the  sculptor.  The  enthusiastic  eulogies  and 
poetic  comparisons  of  the  Sbken  Kishl)  refer,  not  to 
the  pictures  chiselled  on  sword-guards,  dagger-hafts, 
or  hilt-tips,  but  to  the  manner  of  their  execution. 
Michitaka,  in  common  with  all  Japanese  connoisseurs, 
detected  in  the  stroke  of  a  chisel  and  the  lines  of  a 
graving-tool  subjective  beauties  which  appear  to  be 
hidden  from  the  great  majority  of  Western  dilettanti. 
He  never  fell  into  the  mistake  of  confusing  the 
inspirations  supplied  by  the  decorative  artist  with 
the  technical  achievements  of  the  sculptor  himself. 
However  elaborate  may  be  the  decorative  design, 
however  interesting  the  motive,  the  Japanese  con- 
noisseur never  forgets  to  look  first  to  the  chisel  work. 
By  its  quality  alone  he  estimates  the  rank  of  a  speci- 

228 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

men,  just  as  the  critic  of  pictures  judges  the  authen- 
ticity of  a  painting  by  the  force,  directness,  and 
delicacy  of  the  brush  strokes.  This  becomes  more 
easily  comprehensible  when  it  is  remembered  that 
vigour  and  grace  of  line-drawing  are  the  prime  essen- 
tials of  fine  art  in  the  eyes  of  a  Japanese,  and  that  his 
almost  instinctive  appreciation  of  those  qualities  in  a 
picture  equips  him  with  a  special  standard  for  judging 
the  excellence  of  sculpture  such  as  is  found  upon 
sword-furniture.  The  Japanese  dogu-bori  used  thirty- 
six  principal  classes  of  chisel,  each  with  its  distinctive 
name,  and  as  most  of  these  classes  included  from  five 
to  ten  sub-varieties,  his  cutting  and  graving  tools  aggre- 
gated about  two  hundred  and  fifty.  This  fact  alone 
suffices  to  suggest  the  delicacy  and  elaborateness  of 
his  work. 

There  are  certain  technical  facts  a  knowledge  of 
which  is  necessary  not  only  to  the  connoisseur  of 
sword-ornaments,  but  also  to  the  student  of  Japanese 
metal  work  in  all  its  admirable  developments.  In 
the  first  place,  the  nature  of  the  metals  employed  has 
much  interest,  as  well  for  the  sake  of  the  insight  it 
affords  into  the  metallurgical  ingenuity  of  the  Jap- 
anese as  for  its  bearing  upon  this  branch  of  the 
country's  art. 

Japan  did  not  at  any  time  possess  an  abundance  of 
gold.  The  principal  source  of  supply  was  river  sands, 
and  in  washing  out  the  precious  metal  processes  were 
employed  which,  though  apparently  rough,  have  been 
proved  by  Western  experts  to  be  profitably  applicable 
to  gravel  yielding  only  six  cents  worth  of  gold  per 
cubic  yard.1  If  the  descriptions  of  Japan  penned 
by  Koempfer  and  other  early  writers  were  accepted 

1   See  Appendix,  note  29. 

229 


JAPAN 

literally,  it  would  be  necessary  to  conclude  that  gold 
was  exceptionally  abundant  and  profusely  used  for 
ornamental  purposes.  But  the  truth  is  that  although 
the  Japanese  loved  the  rich  glow  of  the  noble  metal 
and  utilised  it  largely  in  the  adornment  of  temples,  in 
domestic  architecture,  and  for  various  ornaments  and 
utensils,  they  thoroughly  understood  the  art  of  making 
a  little  go  a  long  way,  and  many  objects  which  a 
casual  observer  might  readily  mistake  for  solid  gold, 
were  nothing  more  than  gilded  copper.1  Still,  as 
the  gold-leaf  employed  for  gilding2  purposes  was 
thicker  than  that  serving  the  same  end  in  the  Occi- 
dent, the  quantity  of  the  precious  metal  required  for 
coating  Buddhist  images  (whether  of  bronze  or  wood), 
temple  utensils,  and  architectural  ornaments  must  have 
been  considerable.  Table  utensils  of  gold  or  silver 
did  not  exist,  with  the  exception  of  cups  for  drinking 
wine  and  vessels  for  mulling  it,  together  with  small 
kettles,  censers,  and  other  minor  objects  to  be  spoken 
of  by-and-by.  For  the  manufacture  of  sword-orna- 
ments, however,  —  especially  menuki,  —  and  pouch- 
mountings,  pure  gold  was  constantly  used.  Guards 
of  solid  gold  are  scarcely  ever  found,  except  in  the 
case  of  the  alkuchi  (a  short  dagger-like  weapon  carried 
by  the  samurai  and  used  to  cut  off  the  head  of  a  fallen 
enemy).  It  is  true  that  several  collectors  in  Europe 
and  America  possess,  among  their  art  treasures,  large 
tsuba  (guards)  of  pure  gold,  ornamented  with  the 
utmost  elaboration  of  detail.  But  these,  with  few 
exceptions,  were  made  expressly  for  sale  to  foreigners, 
and  never  formed  part  of  a  Japanese  sword.  The 
term  "  pure  gold  "  is  not  used  here  in  an  absolutely 
literal  sense.  In  former  times  the  Japanese  were  not 

1  Sec  Appendix,  note  30.  a  See  Appendix,  note  3  I . 

230 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

familiar  with  the  delicate  assaying  methods  in  vogue 
in  the  West,  and  could  not  determine  the  quality  of 
either  gold  or  silver  with  the  extreme  accuracy  attained 
at  an  American  or  European  mint.  They  used  a 
touchstone  only,  a  small  plate  of  black  siliceous  shale, 
but  used  it  with  such  skill  that  their  results  —  accord- 
ing to  an  eminent  authority,  Mr.  W.  Gowland  — 
did  not  show  a  maximum  difference  of  more  than  one 
per  cent  from  assays  made  by  Occidental  methods.1 
Their  success  with  silver  was  not  equally  marked, 
but  they  were  able  to  obtain  it  so  pure  that  five  hun- 
dred and  fifty-five  specimens_pf  old  silver  assayed  in 
recent  years  at  the  Imperial  Osaka  Mint  were  found 
to  contain  an  average  of  99.3  per  cent  of  pure  metal. 
It  is,  perhaps,  scarcely  necessary  to  note  that  for  manu- 
facturing purposes  pure  gold  or  silver  was  never  used, 
the  former  being  alloyed  with  silver  and  copper  and  the 
latter  with  copper,  not  with  the  idea  of  debasement, 
but  in  order  to  obtain  greater  hardness  and  freedom 
from  vesicular  cavities  when  casting.  If,  however,  the 
Japanese  metallurgist  possessed  and  practised  highly 
skilled  methods  of  freeing  the  precious  metals  from  im- 
purities, he  was  also  remarkably  clever  in  "  surfacing  ' ' 
either  gold  or  silver  so  as  to  obtain  an  appearance  of 
absolute  purity.  The  question  here  is  not  of  patina,  — 
a  legitimate  and  beautiful  feature  which  Japanese 
craftsmen  had  exceptionally  ingenious  devices  for 
imparting  to  all  the  metals  used  in  objects  of  art, — 
but  to  a  process  originally  elaborated  in  connection 
with  debased  coins,  and  sometimes  resorted  to  by  art- 
artisans  of  low  class,  though  no  kinzoku-sbi  (gold- 
smith) of  repute  ever  descended  to  such  deception,  —  a 
process  of  dissolving  out  the  impurities  from  the 

1  See  Appendix,  note  32. 

231 


JAPAN 

upper  layers  of  a  gold  or  silver  alloy  until  the  surface 
assumed  the  appearance  of  pure  metal.1 

Gold  and  silver,  though  here  spoken  of  in  some 
detail,  played  a  subsidiary  rather  than  a  principal  part 
in  the  manufacture  of  sword-ornaments,  being  used 
chiefly  to  pick  out  the  details  of  the  decorative  design. 
The  ground  metals  were  iron,  copper,  and,  above  all, 
shakudo  and  shibulchiy  two  alloys  invented  by  the  Japan- 
ese and  never  used  by  any  other  people.  Owing  to  the 
great  beauty  of  the  patinas  that  can  be  given  to  them, 
these  alloys  are  uniquely  excellent  for  art  purposes. 

Shakudo  (literally,  "  red  copper  ")  is  an  alloy  of  gold 
with  excess  of  copper,  the  approximate  proportions 
being  three  per  cent  of  gold  to  ninety-seven  of  cop- 
per. The  alloy,  when  it  emerges  from  the  furnace, 
presents  no  special  features,  being  simply  dark-col- 
oured copper.  Its  value  for  artistic  purposes  depends 
on  the  fact  that  a  glossy  black  patina  with  violet 
sheen  may  be  produced  on  its  surface  by  suitable 
treatment.  Mr.  W.  Gowland,  who  has  devoted 
special  research  to  this  subject,  says  :  — 

The  alloy  has  been  long  known  to  the  Japanese,  but 
there  are  no  records  of  its  first  use,  and  the  date  of  its  origin 
cannot  be  even  approximately  determined.  Perhaps  the  least 
doubtful  of  the  earliest  specimens  known  to  us  are  the  mounts 
of  the  sword  of  Ashikaga  Takauji,  who  held  the  position  of 
SHbgun  from  1335  to  1337,  which  is  preserved  in  the  temple 
of  Itsukushima.  There  may  be  earlier  examples,  but  it  was 
certainly  not  known  in  the  ninth  century.  The  oldest  speci- 
men of  Buddhist  art-metal  work  in  the  decoration  of  which 
shakudo  appears,  so  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  trace,  is  a  reli- 
quary containing  fragments  of  the  bones  of  St.  Nichiren  in 
the  famous  temple  of  Minobu  (date  1580).  In  many  temples 
there  are  statues  of  divinities  and  saints  which  are  said  to  be 

1  See  Appendix,  note  33. 

232 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

composed  of  this  alloy,  but  those  I  have  had  the  opportunity 
of  examining  were  all  of  ordinary  copper-tin-lead  bronze. 
In  the  seventeenth  century  it  was  extensively  employed, 
but  the  finest  examples  of  it  as  a  decorative  alloy  are  found 
in  the  guards  and  other  furniture  of  the  swords  of  the  last 
century  and  the  first  half  of  the  present.  The  addition  of 
gold  to  bronze  in  order  to  obtain  a  black  patina  has  been 
long  known  to  the  Chinese.  It  is  hence  possible  that  the 
Japanese  may  have  learned  from  them  this  peculiar  property 
of  gold ;  but  the  pure  alloy  of  copper  and  gold,  of  the  true 
shakudo,  is  essentially  Japanese,  and  is  unapproached  in  the 
beauty  and  richness  of  its  patina  by  any  alloy  of  the  Chinese, 
either  of  old  or  recent  times.  Its  rich  deep  tones  of  black, 
and  the  splendid  polish  which  it  is  capable  of  receiving,  ren- 
der it  alike  a  perfect  ground  for  inlaid  designs  of  gold,  silver, 
and  copper,  and  for  being  similarly  inlaid  in  them.  This 
alloy,  too,  possesses  physical  properties  which  are  of  extreme 
importance  to  the  worker  in  metals,  and  enable  him  to 
manipulate  and  fashion  it  as  he  desires.  It  can  be  cast  into 
any  form ;  can  be  hammered  into  sheets  and  drawn  into 
wire.  No  large  castings,  however,  have  been  made  of  it. 
The  method  by  which  the  black  patina  is  produced  is  as 
follows  :  The  object  is  first  boiled  in  a  lye  prepared  by  lixivi- 
ating wood  ashes ;  after  which  it  is  carefully  polished,  if 
necessary,  with  charcoal  powder.  It  is  then  immersed  in 
plum-vinegar  containing  common  salt  in  solution,  and,  after 
being  washed  with  a  weak  lye,  is  placed  in  a  tub  of  water  to 
remove  all  traces  of  alkali.  After  this  treatment  it  is  digested 
in  a  boiling  solution  of  copper  sulphate,  verdigris,  and  water, 
to  which  sometimes  potassium  nitrate  is  added,  and  the 
desired  patina  is  produced. 

It  is  roughly  stated  above  that  s ha  kudo  is  composed 
of  97  per  cent  of  copper  to  3  of  gold.  But,  in  truth, 
no  less  than  fifteen  grades  of  the  alloy  are  used  by 
Japanese  craftsmen.  The  lowest  of  them  —  called 
chiusho  —  contains  only  traces  of  gold,  and  the  highest 
has  as  much  as  7  per  cent  of  the  precious  metal. 
Analyses  of  seven  specimens  of  shakudo  made  by  Mr. 

233 


I 

4.16 

0.08 

95-77 

— 

'2 

3-75 

1-55 

94.50 

O.I  I 

3 

2.67 

2.06 

94.90 

o.  n 

4 

2.45 

1.24 

96.00 

0.06 

5 

1.52 

2.01 

96.  10 

0.08 

6 

I.OO 

1-37 

97.40 

0.07 

7 

0.49 

0.29 

99.04 

— 

JAPAN 

Gowland,  Mr.  Kalischer,  and  Mr.  Atkinson  gave  the 
following  results  :  — 

ANALYSES    OF   "SHAKUDO." 

Gold.          Silver.  Copper.  Lead.  Iron.  Arsenic.  Total. 

IOO.OI 

Trace  Trace  99-^9 
99-74 
99-75 
99.71 
99.84 
99.82 

Another   alloy   peculiar  to   Japan  and  of  at  least 
equal  importance  with  shakudo  for  artistic  purposes,  is 
shibuichi,  a  term  literally  signifying  "one  part  in  four;" 
that  is  to  say,  one  part  of  silver  by  weight  to  three  of 
copper.     That,  doubtless,  was  the  original  composition 
of  the  alloy.      Indeed  Japanese  records  state  definitely 
that  the  ordinary  variety   of  shibuichi  contained    10 
momme  (5.8   grs.  Troy)  of  copper  to   2^2   momme  of 
silver.     But,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  shibuichi  employed 
for  sword-furniture  and  other  artistic  work  was  usually 
the  kind  known  as  sambo-gin,  which  consisted  of  one 
part  of  silver  to  two  of  copper.      In  the  Sbken  KisJfo 
three  varieties  of  shibuichi  are  enumerated,  —  the  first 
containing  one  part  (by  weight)  of  silver  to  three  of 
copper ;   the  second,  one  part  of  silver  to  two  of  cop- 
per ;  and  the  third,  six  or  seven  parts  of  silver  to  ten 
of  copper.      Concerning  the  third  variety  the  author 
says  :  — "  This  is  the  best  quality  of  shibuichi.      It  was 
always  used  by  Somin,  Soyo,  and  other  great  masters 
as  a  ground  metal.     Soyo,  however,  employed  a  kind 
of  shibuichi  having  a  dark  hue,   obtained  apparently 
by  an  admixture  of  shakudo,  though  the  compounding 
of  these  two  alloys  presents  serious  technical  difficul- 
ties, and  it   is  not  known  how  he   overcame  them. 

234 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

Speaking  generally,  a  greyish  patina  and  silvery  lustre 
are  regarded  as  the  most  attractive  features  of  shibuichi, 
but  Soy5's  compound  presents  even  choicer  qualities. 
In  the  course  of  years  the  finest  kind  of  shibuichi  de- 
velops a  peculiar  lustrous  dappling,  like  the  marking 
of  a  tiger's  skin  or  the  ground  of  aventurine  (nasbi-ji} 
lacquer."  It  is  unnecessary  to  reproduce  here  any 
analytical  table  of  shibuichi.  If  to  what  has  been 
already  said  the  fact  be  added  that  it  contains  a  small 
quantity  of  gold  —  from  0.08  to  0.12  per  cent  —  its 
composition  is  sufficiently  described.  Mr.  Gowland 
says  of  shibuichi :  — 

The  value  of  this  alloy  in  decorative  metal  work  is,  like 
that  of  sbakudo,  entirely  dependent  on  its  patina.  It  pos- 
sesses no  special  beauty  when  cast,  its  colour  being  that  of 
pale  gun-metal,  or  a  common  pale  bronze ;  but  when  its 
surface  is  subjected  to  appropriate  treatment,  it  assumes  a 
patina  of  charming  shades  of  grey,  which  gives  it  an  unique 
position  among  art  alloys.  No  other  affords  the  artist  such 
a  delicate,  unobtrusive,  and  effective  ground  for  inlaid  designs 
of  gold,  silver,  or  other  metals.  It  was  not  known  to  the 
Japanese  in  mediaeval  times.  In  fact,  it  does  not  appear  to 
have  been  used  until  much  later  than  shakudo.  The  descrip- 
tions given  of  the  ornamental  appendages  of  historical  swords 
even  as  late  as  the  seventeenth  century  do  not  mention  it, 
and  the  first  record  we  have  of  the  alloy  only  dates  from  the 
beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century  (1706  A.D.),  when  it 
was  used  in  the  Government  Mint  for  the  preparation  of 
debased  silver  bars,  termed  chogin  (trade  silver),  which  were 
used  for  commercial  purposes.  There  are  several  examples 
of  its  use  in  sword-guards  about  the  same  date,  but  it  seems 
then  to  have  been  chiefly  employed  as  a  substitute  for  a 
richer  alloy,  a  pure  silver  surface  having  been  given  to  it  by 
the  process  already  described,  and  not  the  fine  grey  patina  of 
later  times.  The  patina  is  produced  by  precisely  the  same 
operations  which  are  practised  for  sbakudo,  the  solution  in 
which  the  objects  are  boiled  having  the  same  composition  as 

235 


JAPAN 

that  used  for  the  arsenical  bronze,  with  the  addition  of  i  c.  c. 
of  plum-vinegar  to  each  litre.  The  finest  grey  tints  are  ob- 
tained only  with  alloys  containing  from  20  to  50  per  cent  of 
silver.  By  the  use  in  his  design  of  both  these  classes  of 
alloys,  —  shakudo  and  sbibuichi,  —  together  with  gold,  silver, 
copper,  and  iron,  the  Japanese  craftsman  has  achieved  results 
in  colour  which  are  unrivalled  in  the  metal  work  of  the 
world.  The  white  of  silver,  the  black  of  shakudoy  the  yellows 
of  golds  of  various  grades,  the  greys  of  sbibuichi,  and  the  reds 
and  browns  of  copper,  —  all  he  employs  in  harmonious  com- 
binations to  enrich  the  effect  of  his  sculptured  work,  and 
shows  himself  in  all  to  be  a  true  master  in  the  art  of  metal 
decoration. 

Copper  was  largely  used  in  the  manufacture  of 
sword-mountings.  In  fact  the  earliest  sword-guards 
found  in  Japan  were  made  of  copper  thinly  plated 
with  gold.  Not  until  a  comparatively  recent  date, 
however,  —  probably  the  seventeenth  century,  —  did 
Japanese  artists  discover  and  put  into  successful  prac- 
tice the  patina-producing  methods  which  impart  such 
beauty  to  their  work  in  copper,  and  enable  them  to 
combine  it  so  admirably  with  other  metals  for  decora- 
tive purposes.  They  obtain  copper  surfaces  showing 
not  merely  a  rich  golden  sheen  with  charming  lim- 
pidity, but  also  red  of  various  hues,  from  deep  coral  to 
light  vermilion,  several  shades  of  grey,  and  brown  of 
numerous  tones,  from  dead-leaf  to  chocolate.1 

Until  the  days  of  the  Goto  masters  iron  was  the 
metal  exclusively  used  for  manufacturing  sword- 
mounts,  but  Goto  Yujo's  fine  chiselling  of  shakudo,  and 
the  beautiful  nanako  ground  that  he  devised  for  kbgai 
and  kozuka  of  that  compound,  gave  it  a  vogue  which 
continued  uninterrupted  down  to  modern  times.  Nat- 
urally a  sculptor  who  contemplated  the  expenditure 

1  See  Appendix,  note  34. 

236 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

of  much  labour  and  skill  on  a  small  object  like  a  guard 
or  a  dagger-haft,  was  careful  to  use  iron  of  the  highest 
quality  only,  and  to  anneal  it  by  processes  of  which 
each  great  artist  made  a  specialty.  But  no  less  atten- 
tion was  bestowed  on  the  production  of  patina.  The 
guards  of  early  experts  —  the  Miyochin  masters  down 
to  Nobuiye,  and  the  Umetada  prior  to  Muneyuki  — 
show  a  curious  patina  called  moyashi,  which  suggests 
the  effect  that  would  be  produced  by  boiling  a  super- 
ficial film  of  the  metal.  But  from  the  seventeenth 
century  onwards,  the  patina  changes,  and  the  surface 
of  the  metal  shows  a  fine  satin-like  texture  constitut- 
ing one  of  the  most  beautiful  features  of  the  object. 
It  is,  indeed,  a  matter  of  constant  wonder  to  the  un- 
initiated that  such  a  surface  could  have  been  imparted 
to  iron,  and  the  patina-producing  recipes  — "  rust- 
summoning  processes  "  (sabi-dashikata),  as  the  Japanese 
call  them  —  of  the  great  experts  would  have  much 
interest  were  they  accessible.  But  these  things  were 
among  the  hiden,  or  "  secret  traditions,"  of  each  family 
of  artists.  No  public  record  of  them  exists.  Modern 
experts,  however,  though  they  no  longer  chisel  sword- 
mounts,  treat  iron  for  artistic  purposes  in  a  manner 
which  is  at  least  equal  to  that  of  the  old  masters,  and 
the  patina-producing  process  for  which  they  claim  the 
finest  results  may  be  described  here.  The  first  step  is 
to  obtain  a  mixture  of  finely  sifted  clays,  red  and 
black,  which  is  placed  in  an  open  vessel  and  exposed 
to  the  action  of  the  elements  for  a  space  of  two  or  three 
years.  Blue  vitriol  and  sulphur,  having  then  been 
heated  together,  are  added  to  a  portion  of  this  sea- 
soned earth,  and  the  compound  forms  a  paste,  which 
is  applied  to  the  surface  of  the  metal,  this  process  being 
repeated  time  after  time,  at  intervals  of  from  four  to 

237 


JAPAN 

five  days,  and  occupying  altogether  about  two  months. 
If  the  expert  judges  that  a  good  patina  has  been  ob- 
tained, he  now  washes  the  metal  carefully  and  polishes 
it  with  a  brush  (tawasht}  of  rice-straw.  This  pre- 
liminary polishing  is  a  long  business,  and  when  it  has 
been  carried  far  enough,  the  final  burnishing  is  done 
with  dried  spikelets  of  the  pine-tree,  after  which  it 
remains  only  to  damp  the  object  repeatedly  with  an 
infusion  of  tea-leaves  during  four  or  five  days.  Such 
is  the  method  pursued  by  Ito  Katsumi,  a  modern 
expert  of  the  highest  skill.  Another  plan,  more 
curious  and  said  to  be  very  efficacious,  is  to  substitute 
for  the  mixture  of  red  and  black  earth  mentioned 
above  some  charcoal  ashes  taken  from  beneath  the 
gridiron  on  which  eels  have  been  roasted.  Into  an 
open  vessel  containing  this  ash  a  small  bag  of  sulphur 
is  inserted,  and  the  mixture  is  exposed  in  the  open 
air  for  two  or  three  years,  by  which  time  the  ash  has 
become  thoroughly  impregnated  with  sulphur.  Re- 
peated coats  of  it  are  then  applied  to  the  iron  object 
at  intervals,  for  about  two  months,  after  which  polish- 
ing and  burnishing  are  effected  as  before.  Tradition 
says  that  the  early  Miyochin  masters  burnished  their 
iron  with  a  cotton  cloth  dipped  in  the  juice  of  the 
lacquer-tree,  but  there  is  no  certainty  as  to  that  point. 
It  is  understood,  of  course,  that  the  processes  here  de- 
scribed are  peculiar  to  certain  experts.  Many  quaint 
recipes  might  be  obtained  by  setting  down  the  alleged 
hiden  of  this  family  or  that.  But  it  is  plain  that  the 
published  accounts  of  these  methods  are  intended  to 
deceive  rather  than  to  instruct. 

Scarcely  less  important  in  Japanese  eyes  than  the 
chiselling  of  the  decorative  design  itself  is  the  prepa- 
ration of  the  field  to  which  it  is  applied.  This  part 

238 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

of  the  subject  has  hitherto  received  little  attention 
from  European  and  American  commentators,  possibly 
because  it  has  a  technical  rather  than  an  artistic 
character.  The  translation  given  above  from  the 
Soken  Kisho  shows  that  nanako  (fish-roe  grounds)  were 
counted  de  rigueur  for  kogai  or  kozuka  from  the  time 
(1469)  of  Goto  Yujo,  and  that  grounds  in  the  ishime 
(stone-pitting)  or  jimigaki  (polished)  style  were  not 
considered  proper  for  swords  worn  on  ceremonial 
occasions.  These  remarks  do  not  apply  to  iron 
sword-mounts.  In  the  case  of  iron  the  patina  alone 
was  esteemed.  Sometimes,  though  very  rarely,  the 
coarsest  kind  of  ishime  (arashi-ishime)  was  employed 
even  on  iron  guards  to  heighten  the  effect  of  recessed 
chiselling,  but  it  is  generally  true  that  shakudo  was 
the  favourite  metal  for  nanako  grounds,  and  shibuichi 
or  copper  for  Ishime. 

As  a  broad  definition  it  may  be  said  that  nanako  is 
obtained  by  punching  the  whole  surface,  except  the 
portion  carrying  the  decorative  design,  into  a  texture 
of  microscopic  dots.  The  first  makers  of  nanako 
did  not  aim  at  regularity  in  the  distribution  of  these 
dots :  they  were  content  to  produce  the  effect  of 
millet-seed  sifted,  hap-hazard,  over  the  surface.  But 
very  soon — certainly  by  the  time  of  Goto  Yujo  — 
the  punching  of  the  dots  in  rigidly  straight  lines 
came  to  be  considered  essential,  and  the  difficulty  in- 
volved in  this  tour  de  force  was  so  great  that  nanako- 
making  took  its  place  among  the  highest  technical 
achievements  of  the  sculptor.  When  it  is  remem- 
bered that  the  punching-tool  was  guided  solely  by 
the  hand  and  eye,  and  that  three  or  more  blows  of 
the  mallet  had  to  be  struck  for  every  dot,  some  idea 
may  be  formed  of  the  patience  and  accuracy  needed 

239 


JAPAN 

to  produce  these  tiny  protuberances  in  perfectly 
straight  lines  at  exactly  equal  intervals  and  of  abso- 
lutely uniform  size,  so  that  a  magnifying-glass  can 
scarcely  detect  any  variation  in  their  order  or  size. 
Nanako  disposed  in  straight  parallel  lines  has  always 
ranked  at  the  head  of  this  kind  of  work,  but  a  new 
style  was  introduced  in  1560  by  Matabei,  the  second 
representative  of  the  Muneta  family.  It  was  obtained 
by  punching  the  dots  in  intersecting  lines,  so  arranged 
that  the  dots  fell  uniformly  into  diamond-shaped 
groups  of  five  each.  This  is  called  go-no-me  (some- 
times gu-no-me)  nanako,  because  of  its  resemblance  to 
the  disposition  of  chequers  in  the  Japanese  game  of  go. 
A  century  later  (1640),  another  representative  of  the 
Muneta  family  - —  Norinao,  known  in  the  art  world 
as  Doki  —  invented  a  new  style  of  nanako  to  which 
the  name  of  daimyo-nanako  was  given,  doubtless  be- 
cause its  special  excellence  seemed  to  reserve  it  for 
the  use  of  the  great  nobles  (daimyo}  only.  In  this 
variety  the  lines  of  dots  alternated  with  lines  of  pol- 
ished ground. 

Ishime  may  be  described  briefly  as  diapering.  A 
diapered  ground  is  known  in  Japan,  however,  by  the 
special  term  wari-ishime  (i.e.  ishime  distributed  in  pat- 
terns). There  is  scarcely  any  limit  to  the  ingenuity 
and  skill  of  the  Japanese  expert  in  diapering  a  metal 
surface.  Thus  one  may  see  a  silver  teapot  having 
its  surface  recessed  in  forty  or  fifty  leaf-shaped  panels, 
each  panel  filled  with  a  different  diaper  of  minute 
and  delicate  workmanship.  But  the  ishime  used  on 
the  fields  of  sword-mounts  does  not  belong  to  the 
diaper  class,  according  to  Japanese  nomenclature. 
There  are,  first,  the  zara-maki  (broad-cast), — some- 
times called  tatsuta-maki,  — •  in  which  the  surface  is 

240 


.RSTtatlTATa   Y.5TOVI   VlflilCIOI/ 

rS3^2fi^ac 
<rile2  sfaemBH  \B    .usaY  waH  erft  to  tatfiw  laii^  srft  gnlweib  item  blO    .1 


MODERN   IVORY  STATUETTES. 

(See  page  155.) 

1.  Old  man  drawing  the  first  water  of  tho  New  Year.    By  Hamada  Seiko. 

2.  Farmer.    By  Udagawa  Kazuo. 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

finely  but  irregularly  pitted,  after  the  manner  of  the 
face  of  a  stone ;  second,  the  kashiji  (pear-ground) 
ishime,  which  gives  a  surface  like  the  rind  of  a  pear  ; 
third,  the  kari-ishime,  where  the  indentations  are  so 
minute  that  they  seem  to  have  been  made  with 
the  point  of  a  needle  (hari) ;  fourth,  the  gama-ishime, 
which  is  intended  to  imitate  the  skin  of  a  toad 
(gama) ;  fifth,  the  tsuya-ishime  (lustrous),  produced 
with  a  chisel  sharpened  so  that  its  traces  have  a  bril- 
liant appearance ;  sixth,  orekuchi  (broken-tool)  ishime, 
a  peculiar  kind  obtained  by  fracturing  a  chisel  and 
hammering  the  surface  of  the  metal  with  the  jagged 
tool  (this  last  variety  is  spoken  of  as  arashi-ishime, 
a  generic  term  applied  to  all  rough  work) ;  and 
seventh,  gozame-ishime,  so  called  because  it  resembles 
the  plaited  surface  of  a  fine  straw-mat.  These  details 
may  seem  insignificant,  but  without  some  knowledge 
of  them  it  is  impossible  to  appreciate  the  quality  of 
Japanese  metal  work. 

A  word  must  also  be  said  about  the  different 
methods  of  chiselling.  Of  these  the  most  important 
is  taka-bori,  or  chiselling  in  relief.  The  Japanese 
distinguish  three  varieties  of  relief  carving,  namely, 
atsu-nlku-bori  (high  relief ),  or  alto  relievo  ;  chiu-niku- 
bori  (medium  relief),  mezzo  relievo ;  usu-niku-bori  (low 
relief)  or  basso  relievo.  These  expressions  explain 
themselves.  But  it  may  be  added  that,  in  the  opinion 
of  the  Japanese  expert,  they  occupy  the  same  respec- 
tive rank  as  the  three  kinds  of  ideographic  script 
occupy  in  the  realm  of  calligraphy.  High-relief  carv- 
ing corresponds  with  the  kai-shoy  or  most  correct 
and  classical  form  of  writing  ;  medium  relief,  with 
the  gyo-sho,  or  semi-cursive  style ;  and  low-relief, 
with  the  so-shot  or  grass  character.  Passing  to  incised 

VOL.    VII. I  6  2AI 


JAPAN 

chiselling,  the  commonest  form  is  ke-borit  or  "  hair 
cutting,"  which  may  be  called  engraving,  the  lines 
being  of  uniform  thickness  and  depth.  Very  beauti- 
ful results  are  obtained  by  the  ke-bori  method.  But 
incomparably  the  finest  work  in  the  incised  class  is 
that  known  as  kata-kiri-bori.  In  this  kind  of  chisel- 
ling the  Japanese  expert  claims  to  be  unique  as  well 
as  unrivalled.  It  is  easy  to  see  that  the  idea  of  the 
great  Yokoya  experts,  the  originators  of  this  style, 
was  to  break  away  from  the  somewhat  formal  monot- 
ony of  ordinary  engraving,  where  each  line  performs 
exactly  the  same  function,  and  to  convert  the  chisel 
into  an  artist's  brush  instead  of  using  it  as  a  common 
cutting-tool.  They  succeeded  admirably.  In  the 
kata-kiri-bori  every  line  has  its  proper  value  in  the 
pictorial  design,  and  strength  and  directness  become 
prime  elements  in  the  strokes  of  the  burin,  just  as  they 
do  in  the  brush-work  of  the  picture-painter.  It  may 
be  said,  indeed,  that  the  same  fundamental  rule  applied 
whether  the  field  of  the  decoration  was  silk,  paper, 
or  metal :  the  artist's  tool,  be  it  brush  or  burin,  had 
to  perform  its  task  by  one  effort.  There  must  be  no 
appearance  of  subsequent  deepening,  or  extending,  or 
re-cutting,  or  finishing.  Kata-kiri-bori  by  a  great  ex- 
pert is  a  delight.  One  is  lost  in  astonishment  at  the 
nervous  yet  perfectly  regulated  force  and  the  unerring 
fidelity  of  every  trace  of  the  chisel. 

Low-relief  chiselling  does  not  easily  lend  itself  to 
the  production  of  striking  effects,  but  the  skill  ex- 
hibited by  many  Japanese  experts  in  this  kind  of 
work  was  even  more  remarkable  than  that  of  its 
great  Italian  master  Donatello,  and  when  combined 
with  kata-kiri  chiselling  it  gave  exquisite  pictures. 
Another  variety  much  affected  by  artists  of  the  seven- 

242 


SWORD -FURNITURE 

teenth  century  and  subsequent  eras  was  called  shlshi- 
ai-bori,  or  niku-ai-bori.  In  this  the  surface  of  the 
design  was  not  raised  above  the  general  plane  of  the 
field,  but  an  effect  of  projection  was  obtained  by 
recessing  the  whole  space  immediately  surrounding 
the  design  or  by  enclosing  the  latter  in  a  scarped 
frame.  Again,  in  many  sword-guards  the  design  was 
modelled  on  both  faces  so  as  to  be  a  complete  sculp- 
ture. This  fashion  was  always  accompanied  by 
chiselling  "a  jour  (sukasfu-bon\9  so  that  the  sculp- 
tured portions  stood  out  in  their  entirety.  All  fully 
modelled  work,  whether  for  guards,  menuki,  or  other 
purposes,  was  called  maru-bori  (round  carving). 

Inlaying  with  gold  or  silver  was  among  the  early 
forms  of  decoration.  There  were  two  principal 
kinds  of  inlaying :  the  first  called  hon-zogan  *  (true 
inlaying) ;  the  second  nunome-zogan  (linen-mesh  inlay- 
ing. As  to  the  former,  the  Japanese  method  did  not 
differ  from  that  seen  in  the  beautiful  iron  censers 
and  vases  inlaid  with  gold  which  the  Chinese  pro- 
duced with  notable  success  from  the  Shun-tieh  era 
(1426—1436).  In  the  surface  of  the  metal  the 
workman  cut  grooves  wider  at  the  base  than  at  the 
top,  and  then  hammered  into  them  gold  or  silver 
wire.  Such  a  process  presents  no  remarkable  feat- 
ures, except  that  it  has  been  carried  by  Japanese  ex- 
perts to  an  extraordinary  degree  of  elaboration.  The 
nunome-zogan  is  much  more  interesting.  Suppose,  for 
example,  that  the  artist  desires  to  produce  an  inlaid 
diaper.  His  first  business  is  to  chisel  the  surface  in 
lines  forming  the  basic  pattern  of  the  design.  Thus, 
for  a  diamond  petal  diaper  the  chisel  is  carried  across 
the  face  of  the  metal  horizontally,  tracing  a  number 

1    See  Appendix,  note  35. 

243 


JAPAN 

of  parallel  bands,  divided  at  fixed  intervals  by  ribs, 
which  are  obtained  by  merely  straightening  the  chisel 
and  striking  it  a  heavy  blow.  The  same  process  is 
then  repeated  in  another  direction,  so  that  the  new 
bands  cross  the  old  at  an  angle  adapted  to  the  nature 
of  the  design.  Several  independent  chisellings  may 
be  necessary  before  the  lines  of  the  diaper  emerge 
clearly,  but  throughout  the  whole  operation  no  meas- 
urement of  any  kind  is  taken :  the  artist  is  guided 
entirely  by  his  eye,  though  the  slightest  failure  to 
estimate  the  dimensions  correctly,  or  the  slightest 
deviation  of  hand  or  chisel  would  at  once  destroy  the 
work.  The  metal  is  then  heated,  not  to  redness,  but 
sufficiently  to  develop  a  certain  degree  of  softness, 
and  the  workman,  taking  a  very  thin  sheet  of  gold, 
hammers  portions  of  it  into  the  salient  points  of  the 
design,  thus  clearly  marking  out  the  spaces.  In 
ordinary  cases  this  is  the  sixth  process.  The  seventh 
is  to  hammer  gold  into  the  outlines  of  the  diaper ; 
the  eighth,  to  hammer  it  into  the  pattern  filling  the 
spaces  between  the  lines,  and  the  ninth  and  tenth  to 
complete  the  details  of  the  pattern.  Of  course  the 
more  intricate  the  design  the  more  numerous  the 
processes.  The  expert  uses  magnifying-glasses,  but  is 
said  to  depend  more  on  the  delicacy  of  his  own  sense 
of  touch  than  on  the  power  of  the  glasses.  It  is 
scarcely  possible  to  imagine  a  higher  effort  of  hand 
and  eye  than  this  nunome-zogan  displays,  for  while 
intricacy  and  elaborateness  are  carried  to  the  very 
extreme,  absolutely  mechanical  accuracy  is  obtained. 
Sometimes  into  the  same  design  gold  enters  in  three 
different  hues,  obtained  by  varying  the  alloy. 

A  third  kind  of  inlaying,  peculiar  to  Japan,  is  sumi- 
zogan   (ink    inlaying),   so    called    because    the    inlaid 

244 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

design  gives  the  impression  of  having  been  painted 
with  Indian  ink  beneath  the  transparent  surface  of 
the  metal.  The  difference  between  this  process  and 
ordinary  inlaying  is  that  for  sumi-zogan  the  design  to 
be  inlaid  is  fully  chiselled  out  of  an  independent 
block  of  metal,  with  sides  sloping  so  as  to  be  broader 
at  the  base  than  at  the  top.  The  object  which  is  to  re- 
ceive the  decoration  is  then  channelled  in  dimensions 
corresponding  with  those  of  the  design-block,  and  the 
latter  having  been  fixed  in  the  channel,  the  surface 
is  ground  and  polished  until  absolute  intimacy  seems 
to  be  obtained  between  the  inlaid  design  and  the  metal 
forming  its  field.  Very  beautiful  effects  are  thus  pro- 
duced, for  the  design  seems  to  have  grown  up  to  the 
surface  of  the  metal  field  rather  than  to  have  been 
planted  in  it.  Shibuichi  inlaid  with  shakudo  used  to 
be  the  commonest  combination  of  metals  in  this  class 
of  decoration,  and  the  objects  usually  depicted  were 
bamboos,  crows,  wild-fowl  under  the  moon,  peony 
sprays,  and  so  forth. 

It  remains  to  refer  to  a  variety  of  decoration  spe- 
cially affected  by  the  early  experts  and  subsequently 
carried  to  a  high  degree  of  excellence,  namely, 
mokume-ji,  or  wood-grained  ground.  The  process  in 
this  case  is  to  take  a  thin  plate  of  iron  —  if  iron  is  to 
be  treated  —  and  beat  into  it  another  plate  of  similar 
metal,  so  that  the  two,  though  welded  together,  re- 
tain their  separate  forms.  The  mass,  while  still  hot, 
is  coated  with  hena-tsuchi  (a  kind  of  gray  clay)  and 
rolled  in  straw  ash,  in  which  state  it  is  roasted  over 
a  charcoal  fire  raised  to  glowing  heat  with  the  bel- 
lows. The  clay  having  been  removed,  another  plate 
of  metal  is  beaten  in,  and  the  same  process  is  re- 
peated. 

245 


JAPAN 

This  is  done  several  times,  the  number  depending 
on  the  quality  of  graining  that  the  expert  desires  to 
produce.  The  manifold  plate  is  then  heavily  punched 
from  one  side  so  that  the  opposite  face  protrudes  in 
broken  blisters,  which  are  then  hammered  down  until 
each  becomes  a  centre  of  wave  propagation.  In  fine 
work  the  apex  of  the  blister  is  ground  off  before  the 
final  hammering.  It  will  be  evident  that  the  wood- 
graining  is  obtained  on  one  face  of  the  metal  only  by 
this  process.  Hence,  when  there  is  question  of  a 
sword-guard,  two  plates  have  to  be  separately  prepared, 
and  afterwards  welded  together,  back  to  back.  Iron 
was  used  exclusively  for  work  of  this  kind  down  to 
the  sixteenth  century,  but  various  metals  began  to  be 
thenceforth  combined.  Perhaps  the  choicest  variety 
is  gold  graining  in  a  shakudo  field.  By  repeated  ham- 
mering and  polishing  the  expert  obtains  such  control 
of  the  wood-grain  pattern  that  its  sinuosities  and 
eddies  seem  to  have  developed  symmetry  without 
losing  anything  of  their  fantastic  grace.  Another 
method  of  producing  mokumeji  was  to  take  the  plate, — 
composed  of  various  lamina?  as  described  above,  —  set 
it  on  its  edge  and  hammer  it  so  that  it  spread  in  a 
direction  perpendicular  to  its  original  face.  The  new 
plate  was  then  fixed  on  a  different  edge  and  once 
more  hammered  flat.  By  these  devices  graining  with 
elongated  curves  was  produced.  Sometimes  the  ex- 
pert, having  welded  together  the  several  sheets  of 
metal,  fixed  the  plate  on  edge  at  an  angle  more  or 
less  acute,  and  beat  it  out  by  a  series  of  blows  which 
had  the  effect  of  peeling  the  surface  and  re-distribut- 
ing it  in  a  kind  of  wave  diaper.  Such  work  demanded 
much  skill  and  care.  The  rings  and  caps  of  hilts 
were  often  decorated  in  the  mokume  style.  In  these 

246 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

cases  the  plate  of  grained  metal  was  bent  to  the 
required  shape  and  veneered  to  a  base  of  thicker 
metal.  The  metal-workers  of  Nagoya,  from  the 
middle  of  the  eighteenth  century,  produced  excellent 
mokume  grounds.  Their  favourite  plan  was  to  weld 
four  or  five  lamina?  of  different  metals  —  iron,  sbakudo, 
copper,  sbibuichi,  silver  and  sometimes  gold  —  into  a 
sheet.  The  corners  of  the  latter  were  then  cut  off, 
and  the  plate,  having  been  reheated,  was  placed  verti- 
cally on  each  of  the  four  sections  in  succession,  and 
beaten  flat  by  strokes  delivered  from  the  opposite 
section.  These  Nagoya  experts  were  also  successful 
with  a  special  kind  of  mokume  known  as  taf?ia-mokume. 
The  different  metals,  having  been  reduced  to  spheri- 
cal form,  are  loaded  like  bullets  into  an  iron  cylinder, 
which  is  brought  to  a  red  heat,  placed  vertically  on 
the  anvil  and  hammered  into  a  plate.  In  this  kind 
of  mokume  the  contours  of  the  graining  take  a  circular 
form. 

One  other  variety  of  decoration  has  to  be  mentioned. 
It  is  called  guri-bori,  and  its  model  is  taken  from  the 
well-known  tsui-shiu  (or  tsui-koku)  lacquer,  which 
shows  a  formal  diaper  cut  deeply  into  several  coats  of 
superposed  lacquer,  the  channels  being  narrower  below 
than  above,  so  that  the  slope  of  their  sides  enables  the 
various  strata  of  the  lacquer  coats  to  be  clearly  seen. 
To  produce  this  effect  in  metal,  alternating  plates  of 
two  metals,  or  perhaps  three,  were  welded  together, 
and  when  they  had  been  shaped  into  the  form  of  the 
projected  object,  the  design  was  deeply  chiselled,  the 
channels  ultimately  presenting  horizontally  streaked 
sides.  The  guri-bori  exhibits  technical  skill  only,  but 
it  is  worth  noting  that  although  in  nearly  all  the 
processes  of  decorative  metal  work  modern  Japanese 

247 


JAPAN 

experts  are  at  least  as  skilled  as  their  predecessors, 
they  fail  to  produce  this  particular  kind  successfully. 
The  experts  of  former  times  seem  to  have  possessed 
some  secret  for  welding  together  their  sheets  of 
metal  so  that  each  sheet  preserved  its  individuality 
though  intimately  joined  to  its  companions  above 
and  below.  Experts  of  the  present  day  are  compelled 
to  resort  to  solder,  and  it  is  evident  that  to  lay  solder 
in  an  absolutely  even  coat  over  the  surface  of  a  metal 
plate  is  almost  impossible.  Somewhere  there  is  a 
break  of  continuity,  and  a  flaw  results  when  the  pile 
of  plates  is  channelled. 


248 


Chapter  VII 

SCULPTURE    ON  SWORD-FURNITURE 

(Continued) 

IT  is  certainly  a  close  approximation  to  the  truth 
to  say  that  before  the  time  of  Yujo,  the  first  of 
the  Goto  masters,  —  that  is  to  say,  before  the 
year  1469,  when  he  began  to  develop  the  style 
for  which  he  afterwards  became  so  famous,  —  chisel- 
ling in  relief  was  not  applied  to  the  decoration  of 
sword-ornaments  in  such  a  manner  as  to  command 
public  admiration.  Some  investigators  carry  the 
statement  still  farther  :  they  allege  that  Goto  Yujo 
actually  invented  relief  carving.  Possibly  the  asser- 
tion is  true  if  it  is  understood  in  the  sense  of  relief 
without  the  aid  of  the  repousse  process.  Decoration 
in  relief  had  been  applied  to  armour  by  the  Miyochin 
masters  for  certainly  three  centuries,  and  perhaps  four, 
before  Yujo's  era.  But  lightness  being  of  prime 
importance  in  the  case  of  armour,  the  artist  naturally 
had  recourse  to  the  repousse  method  for  the  raised 
parts  of  the  decorative  design,  and  though  he  used 
his  chisel  for  finishing  off  the  work,  he  never 
attempted  to  cut  the  design  out  of  the  solid  metal. 
It  was  left  to  Goto  Yujo  to  develop  the  potentialities 
of  that  method.  An  element  of  confusion  has  been 
introduced  into  this  chapter  of  history  by  writers 
who  represent  the  celebrated  Kaneiye  as  having 
chiselled  sword-guards  with  designs  in  relief  before 
the  time  of  Hujo.  M.  Louis  Gonse,  for  example, 

249 


JAPAN 

says  that  Kaneiye  worked  at  the  close  of  the  four- 
teenth century,  and  describes  guards  by  him  which 
show  that  chiselling  in  relief  was  then  practised. 
Kaneiye  certainly  did  employ  the  method  of  relief 
chiselling  in  manufacturing  guards.  He  worked, 
however,  not  at  the  end  of  the  fourteenth  century, 
but  at  the  beginning  of  the  sixteenth.  There  is, 
indeed,  a  little  uncertainty  about  his  date.  Some 
records  call  him  a  pupil  of  Nobuiye,  which  would 
place  him  about  the  year  1520  ;  others  assign  him  to 
a  slightly  earlier  epoch.  At  all  events  Goto  Yujo  had 
been  working  for  at  least  twenty  or  thirty  years  be- 
fore Kaneiye's  time,  and  the  true  historical  relation 
in  which  the  two  men  stand  to  each  other  is  that 
Yujo  invented  relief  chiselling  and  Kaneiye  was  the 
first  to  apply  it  to  sword-guards. 

For  Goto  Yujo  was  not  a  guard-maker.  He  never 
chiselled  a  guard,  but  devoted  his  attention  solely  to 
the  smaller  mounts,  namely,  the  menuki,  the  kogai, 
and  the  kozuka.  It  has  been  stated  by  European 
writers  that  from  the  artistic  stand-point  the  guard  is 
the  most  important  part  of  the  sword's  furniture. 
That  view  would  not  be  admitted  by  any  Japanese 
connoisseur.  In  Japan,  from  the  time  when  glyptic 
artists  began  to  occupy  themselves  with  the  decora- 
tion of  sword-mounts,  a  clear  distinction  was  always 
drawn  between  the  essential  and  the  ornamental  parts. 
The  former  comprised  the  guard,  the  ring,  and  the 
crown  (fuchi  and  kashira)  of  the  hilt ;  the  latter,  the 
menuki,  the  kogai,  and  the  kozuka.  Until  the  seven- 
teenth century  the  three  last  were  known  as  the  kit- 
su-dokoro  (three  parts),  and  though  the  distinction 
ceased  to  be  rigid  in  later  times,  it  was  carefully 
observed  by  the  early  Goto  masters  as  well  as  by  their 

250 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

contemporaries,  and  every  connoisseur  knows  that  on 
the  mitsu-dokoro  are  to  be  found  the  most  delicate 
workmanship  and  the  most  elaborate  decorative  effects 
in  the  whole  range  of  Japanese  metal  work.  The 
guard  has  special  attractions  which  cannot  be  im- 
parted to  such  comparatively  petty  objects  as  the 
kogai  or  the  kozuka,  but  it  is  not  to  the  guard  alone 
or  chiefly  that  the  student  must  look  for  the  history 
of  this  branch  of  Japanese  art. 

Goto  Yujo's  skill  was  expended  almost  solely  on 
the  menuki  and  the  Kogai.  So  far  as  concerns  the 
menuki,  he  cannot  be  credited  with  much  originality. 
During  certainly  two,  and  probably  seven,  centuries 
before  his  time,  the  menuki  had  received  attention  at 
the  hands  of  glyptic  experts,  and  had  been  variously 
decorated  according  to  the  fancy  of  the  swordsman 
or  the  genius  of  the  artist.  Yujo  merely  brought  to 
the  chiselling  of  these  little  objects  a  new  quality  of 
skill,  and  to  the  designing  of  their  forms,  in  his  later 
years,  a  new  wealth  of  fancy  derived  from  the 
co-operation  of  the  renowned  pictorial  artist  Kano 
Masanobu.  Besides,  although  the  beauty  of  the  me- 
nuki was  incalculably  increased  by  Yujo,  he  made  no 
radical  change  in  the  method  of  chiselling  it.  In 
his  hands  it  remained  what  it  had  been  in  the  hands 
of  his  predecessors,  either  repousse  work  with  fine 
surface  chiselling,  or,  in  rare  cases,  a  solid  carving. 
It  has  been  argued  that  since  the  kozuka  and  the 
Kogai  had  a  place  in  the  scabbard  of  the  waki-zashi 
for  at  least  two  centuries  before  Goto's  time,  and 
since  such  unrivalled  armourers  as  the  Miybchin  no 
yudai  (the  Ten  Miyochin  generations)  as  well  as  two 
of  the  Six  Giyoshi,  were  his  predecessors,  the  orna- 
mentation of  these  portions  of  the  sword-furniture 

251 


JAPAN 

must  have  occupied  the  hands  of  experts  prior  to  the 
fifteenth  century.  Critics  holding  that  view  would 
place  Yujo  at  the  apex  of  an  art  movement  rather 
than  regard  him  as  its  originator,  and  would  derive 
his  great  reputation  from  his  excellence  rather  than 
from  his  originality.  It  must  be  admitted  that  such 
a  theory  is  not  inconsistent  with  facts  which  con- 
front the  student  in  other  developments  of  Japanese 
art.  However,  the  sum  of  accessible  knowledge 
seems  to  be  that  never  until  Yujo  began  to  work  did 
the  art  of  chiselling  in  relief  become  a  really  ad- 
mirable accomplishment.  Concerning  the  question 
whether  Yujo  was  a  great  expert,  the  answer  given 
by  many  foreign  connoisseurs  is  negative.  While 
granting  that  he  stood  at  the  head  of  a  school,  they 
allege  that  it  was  the  classical  school ;  in  other 
words,  a  school  which  did  not  conceive  the  possibil- 
ity, or  perhaps,  admit  the  propriety,  of  aiming  at  such 
qualities  as  softness,  delicacy,  and  pictorial  ideality  in 
the  decoration  of  metallic  surfaces,  especially  when 
the  object  to  be  decorated  formed  part  of  a  weapon 
of  war.  Some  even  go  so  far  as  to  assert  that  the 
severe  formality  and  narrow  range  of  the  early  Goto 
experts  are  as  far  removed  from  the  graceful  tender- 
ness and  wide  repertoire  of  the  eighteenth-century 
artists  —  the  Hamano  and  the  Ishiguro,  for  example 
—  as  are  the  three  chisels  of  Ichikawa  Hirosuke 
from  the  three  hundred  of  Kashiwaya  Nagatsune.1 
Now  it  is  quite  true  that  Yujo  conceived  the  dragon 
and  the  Dog  of  Fo  (sbisbi\  to  be  the  most  appropri- 
ate objects  for  representation  on  arms  and  armour. 
The  dragon  pre-eminently  occupied  his  attention. 
He  devoted  infinite  care  to  the  modelling  of  every 

1  See  Appendix,  note  36. 

252 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

part  of  the  monster,  and  elaborated  for  himself  exact 
rules  as  to  the  shape  and  dimensions  of  the  claws,  the 
horns,  the  scales,  the  teeth,  the  ears,  and  the  arma- 
ture. There  are  points  here  which  probably  lie 
beyond  the  appreciation  of  a  foreign  connoisseur,  who 
regards  the  dragon  as  on  the  whole  an  ugly  reptile, 
and  can  scarcely  accept  it  as  an  agreeable  element  of 
any  decorative  scheme.  But  to  a  Japanese  artist  or 
lover  of  art  the  dragon,  with  its  fierce  vitality  and 
mysterious  suggestions,  is  a  creature  of  the  highest 
interest.  The  painter  and  the  sculptor  alike  under- 
stood the  immense  difficulty  of  depicting  or  chiselling 
it  so  that  it  should  have  the  semblance  of  ferocious 
vigour  and  implacable  malignity,  not  the  appearance 
of  a  limp,  fantastic  worm.  All  the  Goto  masters 
made  a  close  study  of  the  dragon.  They  showed  it 
in  various  shapes  and  positions,  and  in  chiselling  it 
they  acquired  certain  mannerisms  from  which  skilled 
connoisseurs  in  later  ages  constructed  an  alphabet  of 
identification.  Thus,  at  the  beginning  of  the  eigh- 
teenth century,  there  was  published  a  two-volume 
book  (Kinko  Kantei  Hiketsu,  or  the  secrets  of  judging 
works  in  gold),  containing  minute  analyses  of  what 
are  known  as  the  hiden  (secret  formulas)  of  the  first 
fifteen  Goto  masters.  It  is  a  compilation  of  interest, 
as  showing  the  lovingly  appreciative  attention  be- 
stowed upon  such  objects  by  Japanese  connoisseurs. 
But  almost  everything  is  based  upon  the  dragon,  and 
certainly  an  exceptional  instinct  is  required  for  under- 
taking a  careful  study  of  that  fabulous  and  repellent 
monster,  from  the  contours  of  his  curves  and  the 
angles  of  his  claws  to  the  length  of  his  antennas,  the 
set  of  his  ears,  and  the  section  of  his  horns.  If  an 
estimate  of  the  Goto  family's  work  were  derived  from 


JAPAN 

the  contents  of  that  brochure  alone,  it  would  be 
necessary  to  endorse  the  verdict  which  accuses  them 
of  classical  severity  and  narrow  range  of  motive. 
But  there  is  other  and  more  trustworthy  evidence  — 
the  Manpo  Zensho  (complete  treatise  on  all  precious 
things),  published  in  1 7 1 1 ,  as  well  as  a  manuscript 
handed  down  through  six  generations  of  a  family 
whose  successive  representatives  were  professional 
connoisseurs  of  sword-blades  and  sword-furniture.  It 
will  be  worth  while  to  quote  from  these  compilations 
some  of  the  information  furnished  about  the  works 
of  the  first  six  Goto  masters,  because  not  only  is  an 
insight  thus  obtained  into  Japanese  views  about  these 
products  of  art,  but  also  much  is  learned  about  the 
decorative  motives  chosen  by  these  six  experts  be- 
tween the  years  1460  and  1631:  — 

1.  Among  authenticated  specimens  of  the  first  six  Goto 
masters,  there  are  not  any  that  have  a  copper  ground  with 
trees,  reeds,  shrubs,  or  flowers  chiselled  in  relief! 

2.  Specimens  decorated  with  various  kinds  of  Crustacea, 
or  with  landscapes  in  which  living  creatures  do  not  appear, 
are  considered  of  inferior  quality.     The  same  remark  applies 
to    kogai   and   menuki   chiselled  with   scattered-leaf  designs 
only. 

3.  Each  stroke  of  the  chisel   must  be  clean  and  even, 
showing  everywhere  strength  and  directness. 

4.  With  regard  to  the  objects  depicted,  it  is  essential  to 
observe  that  the  faces  of  human  beings  must  faithfully  reflect 
the  sentiments  supposed  to  animate  them.      Under  painful 
circumstances  the  faces  portrayed  by  the  Goto  masters  are 
always   distressed ;    in   joyful    conditions,    they    are   merry. 
Such  is  seldom  the  case  in  the  works  of  the  carvers  of  the 
branch  houses   {Waki-bori),  or  of  men  that  make  a  com- 
merce of  their  art  (Machi-bori,  or  street-carvers,  and  Inari- 
boriy    a   term    of  uncertain   origin).     The    Goto    oxen    are 
always  sleek  and  fairly  proportioned,  not  the  gaunt,  bony  ani- 

254 


S  WO  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  RE 

mals  of  lesser  experts.  Their  horses  are  full-girthed,  strong, 
and  spirited.  Their  crows,  even  the  blackest,  have  a  peculiar 
light-hued  mark  at  the  stem  of  the  feathers,  and  their  white 
herons  a  gold  point  under  the  eye.  The  chiselling  of  the 
dragons'  faces  constitutes  a  special  distinction,  and  the  same 
remark  applies  to  the  Kara-shishi  (Dog  of  Fo).  Water 
from  which  a  dragon  emerges  is  always  rough  and  has  many 
wave-crests,  but  water  above  which  the  ama-ryo  flies  has  few 
crests ;  and  water  over  which  the  moon  shines  is  calm,  with 
only  occasional  ripples.  The  carp  also  springs  from  quiet 
water,  and  where  flower-rafts  are  shown  floating  on  a  lake  or 
river,  the  whole  scene,  from  the  placid  water  to  the  softly 
contoured  rocks,  is  restful  and  smiling.  Association  of 
blossom-boats  with  beetling  cliffs,  angry  waves,  and  swirling 
currents,  is  the  false  conception  of  a  bad  artist.  Flowers 
and  shrubs,  however,  do  not  appear  much  on  the  works  of 
the  Goto  masters,  or,  if  they  appear,  belong  to  a  compara- 
tively low  grade  of  chiselling.  Still  there  is  a  fine  specimen 
of  Yujo's  work  that  forms  an  exception  to  this  rule.  It  is 
a  Kogai  of  shakudo,  having  a  single  chrysanthemum  carved 
in  relief,  and  a  tanzaku  (tablet)  on  which  the  following  coup- 
let is  inlaid  with  gold  :  — 

"  Until  the  dew  flake, 
Beading  this  blossom's  gold, 
Swells  to  a  broad  lake, 
Age  after  age  untold 
Joy  to  joy  manifold 
Add  for  thy  sweet  sake." 

Other  exceptions  are  the  following  specimens,  which,  if  the 
great  masters'  works  be  divided  in  three  classes  with  three 
grades  in  each  class,  must  stand  in  the  first  grade  of  the  sec- 
ond class,  (i)  A  kogai  by  Yujo,  on  which  the  design  is  a 
rain-pipe  with  a  wistaria  clasping  it.  The  chiselling  is  in 
high  relief,  the  creeper  and  the  pipe  are  plated  with  gold, 
and  the  other  parts  are  in  shakudo.  (2)  A  kozuka  of  shakudo 
by  Yujo,  having  for  design  a  tuft  of  susuki  (Eularia  Japonica) 
in  silver  and  gold  under  a  shibuicbi  moon.  The  scene 
represents  the  Moor  of  Musashi.  (3)  A  kogai  of  shakudo  by 


JAPAN 

Yujo,  on  which  the  design  is  a  bamboo  water-pipe,  having 
beside  it  eight  Kiri  (Paulownia)  blossoms  within  a  circle. 

An  idea  of  the  extreme  delicacy  of  Yujo's  chiselling  may  be 
formed  from  a  celebrated  work  of  his,  a  peach-kernel  upon 
which  he  carved  the  twenty-one  Shrines  of  Sanno,  standing 
among  trees  peopled  by  a  multitude  of  monkeys. 

A  favourite  form  of  menuki  chiselled  by  the  Goto  masters 
was  a  dragon  coiled  round  a  two-edged  sword  (called  kuri- 
kara-ryu).  In  good  specimens  of  these  menuki  the  sword 
passes  perfectly  straight  through  the  coils  of  the  dragon, 
and  the  blade  flashes.  The  slightest  deviation  from  the 
straight  line  is  a  blemish. 

Among  authenticated  specimens  of  the  first  six 
Goto  masters'  works  the  following  may  be  men- 
tioned :  — 

1.  A  kogai,  kozuka,  and  a  pair  of  menukiy  en  strife,  by  Yujo. 
Each  of  the  menuki  is  a  group  of  five  dragons  ;  on  the  kozuka 
and  kogai  ten  dragons  each  are  chiselled.     This  is  a  splendid 
work. 

2.  A  pair  of  menuki,  the  design  being  Tawara  Toda  rid- 
ing on  a  dragon  to  meet  the  giant  centipede,  which  is  seen 
emerging  from  a  mountain. 

3.  A  kogai y  kozuka  and  pair  of  menuki  by  Yujo,  decorated 
with  thirty  shishi,  five  on  each  of  the  menuki,  and  ten  each 
on  the  kozuka  and  kogai.     A  splendid  work. 

4.  A  kogai  having  a  spray  of  peony  chiselled  in  relief  and 
a  cat  playing  with  a  butterfly. 

5.  Menuki  by  Yujo  ;  a  group  of  crows. 

6.  A  kogai  y  having  for  design  a  hen  keeping  her  chicks 
warm  under  snow-laden  bamboos. 

7.  A  kogai ,  having  a  cock-fight  chiselled  in  relief. 

8.  A  kozuka ;  the  design  a  hawk  striking  a  pheasant,  and 
a  hunter  carrying  a  game-bag.     The  menuki,  en  suite,  are  in 
the  form  of  game-bags  containing  pheasants. 

9.  Menuki    in    the    form    of  an    eagle    swooping    on    a 
monkey. 

10.  A  kogai  having  five  wild  geese  chiselled  on  it. 

256 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

11.  A  kogai,  having  for  design  a  sea-scape  (Akogi-no-ura), 
with  a  fishing-boat  in  the  foreground,  the  fisherman  throw- 
ing a  net. 

12.  A  kogai,  having  for  design  the  scene  in  the  Gem-pei 
wars,  where  Kumagaye  flies  from  Atsumori. 

13.  A  kozuka  with  the  Funa-Benkei  design  (/.  e.  the  scene 
where,  Yoshitsune's  boat  being  overtaken  by  a  storm  during 
his  flight  from  Yoritomo's  emissaries,  Benkei  reads  a  verse 
from  a  sutra  to  still  the  waves  and  exorcise  the  ghost  of  Taira 
no  Tomomori,  which  hovers  over  the  water.) 

14.  Menuki  in  the  form  of  Taiko-bo  seated  on  a  rock  and 
fishing  with  a  straight  hook. 

15.  A  kozuka,   having  the   design  of  a    wrestling-match 
between  Daikoku  and  Hotei,  with  Yebisu  acting  as  umpire 
and  Fukurokujin  looking  on ;  all  have  laughing  faces. 

1 6.  Kogai  and  menuki  en  suite ;  the  Kogai  having  for  design 
a  mermaid,  with  human  face  and  the  body  of  a  fish ;  the 
menuki   being   in   the   form   of  the    dragon    deity   and   an 
angel. 

17.  A  kozuka,  by  Yujo ;  the  design,  Shoki  (the  demon- 
slayer)  riding  on  a  tiger,  pursuing  with  drawn  sword  the 
imps  of  pestilence  (yakujin).     A  splendid  work. 

1 8.  A  Kogai,  with  Daruma  crossing  the  sea  on  a  rush-leaf 
(ashi-no-ha}. 

19.  A  kogai  and  menuki  en  suite.     On  the  Kogai  is  chiselled 
the  celebrated  priest  Hijiri.     He  has  taken  off  his  wallet  and 
is  sitting  on  a  rock  tying  his  sandal.     The  menuki  show  him 
in  pursuit  of  the  demon  of  Adachi-ga-hara. 

20.  A  kozuka  with  Fukki  (prehistoric  Chinese  Emperor) 
and  Shinno  (the  first  physician)  chiselled  in  relief.     Fukki 
has  a  girdle  of  leaves,  and  Shinno  is  tasting  an  herb. 

21.  A  kogai  showing  the  omkizashi  of  the  courtesan  Tora, 
who  being  summoned  to  a  feast  by  the  great  Wada  Yoshi- 
mori,  and  desired  to  hand  the  wine-cup  to  the  person  she 
deemed  most  honourable,  gave  it  to  Jinro,  one  of  the  Soga 
brothers,  then  a  humble  ronin  (samurai  out  of  service). 

22.  A  kozuka,  showing  the  capture  of  Tosabo  (Yoshit- 
sune's would-be  assassin)  by  Benkei.     The  latter  has  leaped 
upon  Tosabo's  horse  from  behind,  and  is  in  the  act  of  draw- 
ing Tosabo's  sword  to  kill  him  with  his  own  weapon. 

VOL.   vil.  —  17  2C7 


JAPAN 

23.  Menuki  in  the  form  of  Idaten  pursuing  Sokushiki,  who 
has  stolen  some  Buddhist  relics. 

24.  Menuki ;  one  representing  Watanabe  no  Tsuna  in  full 
armour,  drawing  his  sword  as  the  demon  seizes  his  helmet ; 
the  other,  a  battle-steed  without  a  saddle. 

25.  Kogaiy  by  Yujo,  on  which  is  chiselled  a  night  view  of 
the  celebrated  landscape  Shojo  in  wet  weather.     Two  figures 
are  seen,  both  wearing  straw  rain-coats.     The  foremost,  a 
young  man,  carries  a  torch ;  the  other,  an  old  man,  follows. 
A  splendid  work. 

26.  Menuki,  one  representing  the  fabulous  Nuye  (a  mon- 
ster with  the  head  of  a  monkey,  the  body  of  a  tiger,  and  the 
tail  of  a  serpent) ;  the  other,  Yorimasa,  with  bow  and  arrow. 

27.  Menukiy  by  Yujo ;  the  Sambaso  —  a  dancing  figure 
in  high  relief;  the  design  on  the  surcoat,  sprays  of  Paulow- 
nai    in    relief  to    represent    embroidery ;    the    pattern    on 
the  skirt,  pines  and  cranes,  inlaid  to  represent  dying.     A 
very  fine  work. 

28.  Kogaiy  having  the  koshin  design  (the  three  sacred  mon- 
keys).    Yujo's  second-class  work. 

29.  A  kogai ;  the  design,  three  silver  trout  strung  on  a 
spray  of  willow. 

30.  Menuki ',  a  spider  catching  a  bee. 

3 1 .  Kozuka,  the  genji-guruma :  a  cart  drawn  by  an  ox  and 
laden  with  a  basket  of  convolvulus  flowers. 

32.  Kozuka,  a  fisherman  drawing  up  the  image  of  Yaku- 
shi  in  his  net. 

33.  Menuki ,  by  Yujo;  the    story  of  Anchin  and  Kiyo- 
hime,    represented  by   a   bronze    bell   with   a  gold    dragon 
coiled  round  it.     A  splendid  work. 

Many  other  specimens  are  mentioned,  —  the  Dragon 
King  riding  on  a  carp ;  a  tenniu  reading  a  sutra ; 
fishing  with  cormorants  at  Nagara ;  Asaina  and  the 
demon  trying  their  strength ;  fishing  by  flash-light ; 
a  child  catching  a  crab ;  Fukurokuju  feeding  his 
crane;  Kengiu  and  Shokujo ;  Choryo  and  Sekiko ; 
No  dancers  ;  long-armed  apes  clutching  at  the  moon's 
reflection ;  lobsters ;  insects  of  various  kinds ;  a  rat 

258 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

trapped  by  a  clam ;  cats  catching  rats ;  rats  eating 
mochi ;  puppy  dogs  playing  with  empty  shells  or  hold- 
ing fans  in  their  teeth ;  a  child  setting  a  dog  at  a 
blind  man  ;  bulls  fighting  ;  oxen  ploughing  ;  flower- 
rafts  floating  down  rivers ;  carp  leaping  up  water- 
falls ;  various  scenes  from  the  twenty-four  acts  of 
filial  piety,  and  so  on.  In  short,  these  records  show 
that  the  first  six  Goto  masters  had  a  very  large  reper- 
toire of  subjects,  and  that  it  is  altogether  a  mistake  to 
speak  of  their  productions  as  severely  classical,  or  of 
their  range  of  decorative  motives  as  limited.  They 
differed,  of  course,  in  the  quality  of  their  work,  the 
third  representative,  Joshiu,  being  notably  the  coarsest 
and  roughest  chiseller  among  them.  It  is  a  theory 
implicitly  believed  in  Japan  that  an  artist's  moral 
nature  is  reflected  in  his  productions.  Joshiu  was  a 
big,  stalwart  soldier.  He  fell  in  battle,  the  end  he 
had  always  desired,  and  there  is  certainly  something 
of  the  bluff"  man-at-arms  in  his  style  of  carving. 
His  most  elaborate  effort  is  said  to  have  been  a  pair 
of  menuki  in  the  form  of  a  procession  of  golden  ants 
carrying  silver  eggs.  But  he  preferred  fierce  dragons 
and  angry  shlshi.  His  son  Kwojo,  the  fourth  repre- 
sentative, who  worked  from  1550  to  1620,  is  distin- 
guished for  precisely  the  quality  which  his  father 
lacked,  extreme  accuracy  of  detail  and  delicacy  of 
style.  Up  to  Kwojo's  time,  that  is  to  say,  during  the 
era  of  the  first  three  Goto  masters,  the  iroye  (literally, 
colour-picture)  process,  or  "  picking  out  "  with  metal 
different  from  that  of  the  general  design,  was  some- 
what clumsy.  The  preparation  of  efficient  solder  not 
being  understood,  the  expert  had  to  pin  each  tiny 
plate  of  gold,  silver,  or  copper  in  its  place.  He 
accomplished  this  with  such  dexterity  that  the  rivets 

259 


JAPAN 

were  not  visible,  but  really  delicate  work  could  not  be 
done.  In  Kwojo's  time  a  solder  was  discovered  so 
good  that  a  piece  of  metal  fixed  with  it  could  be 
afterwards  chiselled  in  loco.  The  use  of  this  ro  (liter- 
ally, wax),  as  the  Japanese  called  it,  made  an  immense 
difference  in  the  quality  of  detail  chiselling,  and  the 
uttori  iroye  (riveted  plating)  of  the  first  Goto  experts 
was  finally  abandoned. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  enter  into  any  further  analysis 
of  the  Goto  masters'  work.  What  has  been  said 
above  of  the  first  six  generations  applies  to  the  meth- 
ods of  all  their  successors.  The  influence  exercised  by 
the  family  and  its  branches  in  this  particular  sphere 
of  Japanese  art  was  enormous.  Until  the  time  of 
Kwojo  and  Tokujo  sword-mounts  were  valued  solely 
for  their  uses :  the  idea  of  collecting  and  treasuring 
them  as  objects  of  art  does  not  appear  to  have  occurred 
to  any  dilettante.  But  when  the  reign  of  peace 
inaugurated  by  the  Tokugawa  regents  gave  people 
leisure  to  think  of  the  sword's  furniture  as  much 
as  of  its  blade,  it  began  to  be  the  fashion  to  make 
collections  of  the  beautiful  specimens  of  sculpture  in 
metal,  then  produced  in  large  quantities  in  the  capitals 
of  many  of  the  fifes  ;  and  from  that  era  until  the  pres- 
ent, it  was  always  considered  that  the  basis  of  every 
good  collection  must  be  a  series  representing  the 
works  of  the  first  fourteen  Goto  experts,  from  Yujo 
to  Keijo.  Any  careful  student  of  the  subject  who 
has  had  an  opportunity  of  examining  the  splendid 
works  of  other  great  masters,  will  be  disposed  to  rebel 
against  the  factitious  prominence  thus  assigned  to  the 
productions  of  the  Goto,  —  the  iye-bori,  or  "  carvings 
of  the  family/'  as  they  are  called.  Yet  the  Japanese 
verdict  is  probably  correct,  for  the  foundation  of  this 

260 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

branch  of  art  is  undoubtedly  relief-chiselling,  and 
whether  the  Goto  masters  originated  that  style  or 
merely  raised  it  from  a  condition  of  tentative  inferior- 
ity to  a  state  of  the  highest  perfection,  the  credit 
belongs  to  them  of  having  demonstrated  its  capabilities, 
and  thus  opened  to  Japanese  sculptors  a  path  leading 
to  results  absolutely  unrivalled  in  the  corresponding 
work  of  other  nations.  It  is  worth  while  to  note 
here  that  at  the  beginning  of  the  present  century  a 
kbgaly  a  kozuka  or  a  pair  of  menuki  authenticated  as 
fine  specimens  of  an  early  Goto  master,  commanded 
a  price  of  from  ^8  to  ^40. 

Recapitulating  the  art  relations  of  the  Goto's  work, 
the  broad  facts  are  that  they  introduced  the  style  of 
carving  in  relief  without  the  aid  of  repousse  ;  that  they 
invented,  or,  at  all  events,  raised  to  an  admirable  grade, 
the  nanako  grounds  which  form  such  beautiful  fields 
for  metal  sculpture  of  every  kind;  that  they  devised 
the  method  of  "  picking  out,"  or  plating  with  vari- 
ous metals  in  order  to  produce  pictorial  effects ;  and 
that  they  carried  the  process  of  gold  inlaying  to  a 
point  of  delicacy  far  beyond  the  conception  of  previ- 
ous artists.  It  is  curious  that  this  last  development 
should  stand  chiefly  to  the  credit  of  the  third  repre- 
sentative, Joshiu,  otherwise  a  comparatively  rough 
expert. 

Not  until  the  time  of  Tokujo,  the  fifth  of  the  Goto 
masters,  who  worked  from  1561  to  1631,  is  there 
any  evidence  that  guards  or  fuchi-gashira  were  among 
the  productions  of  the  family,  and,  on  the  whole, 
their  work  in  that  particular  line  may  be  dismissed  as 
inappreciable.  In  fact,  guard-making  remained  for  a 
long  time  the  special  business  of  the  armourer,  and 
the  method  of  decoration  adopted  was  either  to  impart 

261 


JAPAN 

to  the  outline  of  the  guard  some  quaint  shape,  or  to 
weld  it  in  such  a  manner  that  the  surface  presented  the 
appearance  of  wood  graining,  or  to  decorate  it  with 
designs  chiselled  a  jour.  As  to  the  first  method,  noth- 
ing need  be  said :  it  was  a  device  within  the  range 
of  the  most  ordinary  skill.  But  the  wood-grain 
(mokume)  surface  must  be  classed  among  the  remark- 
able achievements  of  the  Japanese  armourer.  It  seems 
impossible  to  determine  when  this  curious  tour-de-force 
had  its  origin.  The  oldest  examples  of  it  spoken  of 
by  Japanese  connoisseurs  are  from  the  hands  of  Miyo- 
chin  Munesuke,  who  worked  from  1 1 54  to  1185  A.  D. 
Munesuke  is  generally  regarded  as  the  founder  of  the 
great  Miyochin  family  of  armourers.  He  was,  in 
fact,  the  twentieth  representative,  the  founder  hav- 
ing been  Munemichi,  who  nourished  in  the  seventh 
century.  But  Munesuke  stands  so  far  above  all  his 
predecessors  that  he  justly  deserves  to  be  called  the 
father  of  Japanese  armourers.  He  is  the  first  of  the 
yudat,  or  ten  great  generations  of  Miyochin  experts, 
ending  with  Muneyasu  in  1380.  It  was  he  that 
forged  Yoshitsune's  magnificent  suit  of  armour.  Many 
of  his  iron  guards  are  fine  examples  of  the  mokume-jit 
or  wood-grain  forging  which  has  already  been  de- 
scribed. Munesuke  marked  these  guards  Shinto  go- 
tetsu-ren,  or  "  five-times-forged  iron  of  the  sacred 
way/'  and  it  may  here  be  added  that,  in  common 
with  the  great  experts  of  his  family,  the  ideographs 
used  in  his  inscriptions  for  guards  are  of  the  kind 
called  kabuto-ji,  or  "  helmet  characters  ;  "  that  is  to 
say,  the  grass  script  (sosbd)  with  curled  strokes  ;  an 
ornamental  style  of  writing  always  employed  in  mark- 
ing helmets.  From  the  time  of  Munesuke  down  to 
the  present  era  the  production  of  wood-grain  effects 

262 


SWORD- FURNITURE 

has  been  among  the  remarkable  achievements  of 
Japanese  workers.  The  Miyochin  master  used  iron 
only.  As  to  guards  having  designs  chiselled  a  jour 
(sukashi-bori},  it  is  generally  believed  that  up  to  the 
close  of  the  fifteenth  century  they  were  more  or  less 
roughly  executed.  Some  connoisseurs  claim  that 
Miyochin  Nobuiye,  who  worked  during  the  early  part 
of  the  sixteenth  century,  was  the  first  to  carry  this 
method  of  decoration  to  a  point  of  really  high  excel- 
lence. Nobuiye  was  third  of  the  Nochi  no  San-saku, 
or  "Three  Later  Masters,"  of  the  Miyochin  family, 
and  it  is  scarcely  credible  that  his  two  immediate  pre- 
decessors, Yoshimichi  (1530)  and  Takayoshi  (1490), 
the  other  two  of  the  renowned  trio,  who  worked 
during  the  epoch  when  the  Goto  family's  skill  had 
given  new  importance  to  the  decoration  of  sword- 
mounts,  can  have  failed  to  produce  fine  guards  in  the 
sukashi  style.  Indeed  many  delicately  chiselled  and 
artistically  conceived  guards  exist  in  Japan  which 
are  attributed,  with  apparent  reason,  to  makers  of 
earlier  eras  than  Nobuiye's.  But  the  question  need 
not  be  discussed  here.  Nobuiye  himself  did  not 
generally  approve  of  weakening  a  guard  by  pierced 
carving  of  such  an  elaborate  character  as  was  subse- 
quently adopted,  nor  must  his  methods  be  inferred 
from  the  numerous  specimens  bearing  his  name,  since, 
in  the  first  place,  many  of  them  are  forgeries  by 
makers  of  later  epochs,  and,  in  the  second,  two  other 
experts  of  the  same  name  —  one  of  Aki,  the  other  of 
Kishiu  —  manufactured  guards  some  of  which  have 
been  confounded  with  the  work  of  the  Miyochin 
master.  In  Nobuiye's  finest  guards  there  are  found 
two  styles :  first,  line  engraving  combined  with 
chiselling  in  very  low  relief;  and  secondly,  decoration 

263 


JAPAN 

a  jour.     Guards  of  the  former  class  have  the  surface 
covered    with    an    engraved    floral    scroll    (karakusa\ 
among  which  are  leaves  and  blossoms  (generally  of  the 
Paulownia    or   the   evening  gourd)    in    slight    relief. 
These  works  plainly  show  the  influence  which   the 
Goto  family's  methods  had  already  exercised  upon  the 
fashion    of  the   time.      In   the   guards    with    pierced 
decoration,  the    commonest  designs  are    a    network 
pattern    (ami-gata),  or  a    kikko   diaper    (tortoise-shell 
tessellation),  and  occasionally  verses  of  poetry  occur, 
the  ideographs  cut  right  through  the  metal  so  accu- 
rately and  delicately  that  each  character  seems  to  be 
written  by  a  skilled  penman  with  white  ink  on  the 
russet  patina  of  the  iron.      Among  specimens  of  No- 
buiye's   guards   preserved  in   Japan,    the    sacrifice  of 
solidity  to  decorative  design  is  carried  farthest  in  one 
which   has    in  the  centre  a  torii  (sacred    bird-perch) 
within  a   frame  of  mokko-gata  (four-arched   outline). 
The  torli  alone  is  solid,  all  the  remaining  space  within 
the  frame  being  cut  out.      Another  remarkable  guard 
by  the  same  maker,  which   the  inscription  shows  to 
have  been  forged  for  the  notorious  Anayama,  has  the 
surface  covered  with  deep  pitting,  the  depressions  and 
elevations    alternating    on    the    two    faces.      All    the 
guards    of    the    Miyochin    experts,   from    Munesuke 
to  Nobuiye,  are  slightly  rough  to  the  touch,  though 
they  present  the  appearance  of  finely  finished  work. 
This  peculiarity  —  called  by  the  Japanese  moyashi,  or 
fermentation  —  is  the  result  of  the  patina-producing 
process.      It  need  scarcely  be  said  that  the  patina  was 
a  point  of  the  greatest  importance.      The  most  prized 
variety  had   the   colour  of   the  azuki   bean,   or  dark 
mahogany. 

The   chisellers   of  guards   with    decoration   a  jour 

264 


IVORY  INRO. 

Reduced  in  size  about  one  half. 


SWORD- FURNITURE 

showed  a  fertile  fancy  in  choosing  and  inventing  de- 
signs. Naturally  their  work  was  not  uniformly  good. 
The  great  majority  of  the  inferior  samurai  and  all  the 
common  foot-soldiers  (ashigaru)  had  to  be  content 
with  weapons  on  which  little  decorative  labour  had 
been  expended.  But  with  the  nobles  and  the  officers 
of  rank  the  case  was  different.  At  their  order  the 
great  armourers,  and  subsequently  the  chisellers  of 
sword-mounts,  worked  with  ever-increasing  rivalry  to 
produce  fine  guards  which,  while  presenting  an  ap- 
pearance of  lightness  and  delicacy,  nevertheless  pos- 
sessed all  the  elements  of  strength  and  durability 
necessary  in  a  soldier's  weapons.  Many  of  these 
guards  are  interesting  and  valuable  for  the  sake  of  the 
decorative  ability  and  extraordinary  technical  skill  that 
they  display ;  but  they  belong,  of  course,  to  a  class 
of  artistic  workmanship  distinct  from  that  of  the  sur- 
face-chiselled sword-mounts  of  later  times.  It  may 
be  well  here  to  dismiss,  once  for  all,  a  theory  some- 
times advanced  by  writers  in  Europe  that  many  of 
the  elaborate  guards  of  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth 
centuries  were  of  cast  iron.  That  cast-iron  guards 
had  no  existence  cannot  be  affirmed ;  they  may 
sometimes  have  been  made  for  weapons  of  the  most 
inferior  description.  But  the  Japanese  themselves 
deny  that  cast  iron  was  ever  regarded  as  a  suitable 
material  for  a  sword-guard,  its  liability  to  fracture 
being  a  fatal  objection.  The  connoisseur  —  and  every 
samurai  was  something  of  a  connoisseur  in  matters 
concerning  his  sword — attached  more  importance  to 
the  tempering  of  the  metal  than  to  the  fashion  of  the 
ornamental  chiselling,  and  in  every  record  of  great 
armourers  skill  in  forging  iron  heads  the  list  of  their 
achievements.  There  is  a  story  told  of  a  celebrated 

265 


JAPAN 

swordsman  of  Owari,  Yagiu  by  name,  who  in  the 
sixteenth  century  had  fifty  fine  sword-guards  made  by 
the  best  experts  of  the  time.  He  placed  all  the  guards 
in  a  mortar,  pounded  them  with  a  heavy  pestle,  and 
used  only  those  that  survived  the  ordeal.  Subsequently 
Yagiu's  guards  came  to  be  the  fashion,  and  were  pre- 
ferred to  much  finer  work  which  had  not  undergone 
the  same  test.  There  is,  however,  an  explanation  of 
the  cast-iron  theory  advanced  by  European  writers. 
Many  of  the  guards  sold  to  foreign  collectors  in  re- 
cent times  have  been  of  cast  iron,  made  expressly 
for  the  unwary  curio-hunter.  From  these  a  decep- 
tive inference  has  been  drawn  as  to  the  nature  of  the 
genuine  old  work.1 

In  describing  briefly  the  progress  of  the  art  from 
the  time  of  its  early  prosperity  until  the  present  day, 
the  most  convenient  method  will  be  to  follow  the 
method  of  division  into  centuries. 

SIXTEENTH    CENTURY 

Two  eminently  great  names  of  this  century  are 
Nobuiye  (Miyochin)  and  Kaneiye,  but  enough  has 
already  been  said  about  their  work.  It  may  be  added 
here,  however,  that  although  the  great  Kaneiye  cer- 
tainly flourished  at  the  close  of  the  fifteenth  and  the 
beginning  of  the  sixteenth  century,  Japanese  tradi- 
tions refer  to  an  earlier  expert  of  the  same  name 
whom  they  distinguish  as  O-shodai  Kaneiye,  or  the 
"  remote  first-generation  Kaneiye."  Nothing  accu- 
rate is  known  about  him,  and  the  few  specimens 
attributed  to  him  are  of  such  inferior  quality  that  no 
interest  attaches  to  their  history. 

1  See  Appendix,  note  37. 

266 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

Concerning  the  Miyochin  family,  it  is  to  be  noted 
that  they  did  not  contribute  much  to  the  decora- 
tion of  sword-furniture.  There  were  essentially 
armourers,  though  they  produced  also  many  objects 
which  do  not  belong  to  the  category  of  arms  or 
armour,  —  for  example,  censers,  alcove-ornaments, 
metal  mountings  for  palanquins,  and  so  forth.  The 
list  of  Miyochin  masters  who  worked  in  the  sixteenth 
century  includes  many  names,  —  Katsumasa,  Katsuiye, 
Nobuyoshi,  Nobusada,  Muneaki,  Kunishige,  Mune- 
haru,  Munenori,  Munehisa,  etc.,  —  but  as  makers 
of  sword-mounts  they  may  be  dismissed  with  the 
remark  that  they  confined  themselves  to  chiselling 
iron  guards  with  pierced  decoration  or  with  wood- 
grained  surface.  The  name  of  one,  Miyochin  Fusa- 
yoshi,  has  been  handed  down  to  posterity  on  account 
of  his  skill  in  cutting  chrysanthemums  a  jour ;  and 
lyefusa,  a  pupil  of  Nobuiye,  became  celebrated  for 
similar  work. 

In  nearly  all  cases  where  an  artist  achieved  success  as 
a  worker  in  metals,  a  number  of  students  flocked  to  his 
workshop,  and  these,  together  with  his  own  sons  and 
descendants,  founded  a  line  of  experts  perpetuating 
the  family's  name  and  its  style  from  generation  to 
generation.  The  Goto  and  Miyochin  houses  are 
conspicuous  examples,  but  scores  of  other  families 
swell  the  list.  Several  had  their  origin,  and  attained 
special  fame,  in  the  sixteenth  century.  Reference 
has  already  been  made  to  the  Umetada  family,  whose 
representative,  Shigeyoshi,  became  famous  at  the  end 
of  the  fourteenth  century,  working  for  the  Ashikaga 
Shogun,  Yoshimitsu.  A  much  more  highly  skilled 
artist  of  the  same  house  —  also  called  Shigeyoshi  (art 
name,  Miyojit)  —  chiselled  guards  with  decoration 

267 


JAPAN 

£  jour  in  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century,  thus 
bringing  the  Umetada  family  into  greater  repute 
than  ever.  There  was  a  third  Shigeyoshi  (art  name, 
Meishiri),  who,  though  he  flourished  in  the  seven- 
teenth century  (1630),  may  be  mentioned  here  for  the 
sake  of  distinctness.  This  last,  working  for  the  Court 
in  Yedo,  received  the  honorary  title  of  Ho-kyoy  and 
added  chiselling  in  relief  to  the  £  jour  decoration 
which  alone  had  been  practised  by  his  predecessors. 
Thus  it  may  be  said  that  the  Umetada  family  had 
three  epochs,  —  its  debut  upon  the  art  stage  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  eleventh  century  when  its  then  noble 
representative,  Tachibana  no  Munechika,  became 
the  renowned  swordsmith  known  through  all  time  as 
Sanjo  rid  Kokaji ;  its  earliest  remarkable  connection 
with  guard-chiselling  in  the  days  of  the  first  Shige- 
yoshi (1400);  and  its  attainment  of  high  rank  in  that 
line  when  (1630)  the  third  Shigeyoshi  (Meishiri) 
worked  for  the  second  Tokugawa  Shogun.  This 
somewhat  tedious  analysis  is  made  because  great  con- 
fusion has  crept  into  the  writings  of  European  con- 
noisseurs in  the  matter  of  the  Umetada  family.  The 
reader  will  understand  that  the  family  did  not  cease 
to  produce  skilled  experts  after  the  third  Shigeyoshi, 
but  it  is  impossible  to  find  space  here  for  detailed 
reference  except  in  the  case  of  great  celebrities. 

The  Muneta  family,  which  gave  to  Japan  another 
long  line  of  experts,  was  founded  in  Kyoto  in  1520 
by  Matazayemon.  At  first  the  Muneta  masters  con- 
fined themselves  to  working  in  silver,  but  Matabei 
(1560),  grandson  of  Matazayemon,  having  invented 
the  style  of  nanako  called  go-no-me  (as  already  men- 
tioned), he  and  his  successors,  down  to  the  middle 
of  the  century,  are  chiefly  remembered  for  their  skill 

268 


SWORD -FURNITURE 

in  that  kind  of  work.  Muneta  Naomichi  (1660)  — 
art  name,  Dochoku  —  was  the  first  of  the  family  to 
attain  great  distinction  for  chiselling  in  high  relief 
and  in  the  shishi-ai-bori  method  (recessed  carving). 
He  and  his  sons,  Naoshige  and  Naomine,  worked  in 
Osaka,  and  are  among  the  most  celebrated  experts  of 
that  city. 

The  Aoki  family  also  came  into  notice  in  this  cen- 
tury. It  was  founded  (1580)  by  Jubei  (art  name, 
Tetsujin,  i.e.  worker  in  iron),  who  entered  the  service 
of  the  feudal  chief  of  Higo,  and  settled  at  Hasuike 
in  that  province.  Jubei  is  often  spoken  of  as  the 
successor  of  Kaneiye,  apparently  because  he  resembled 
the  latter  in  style  and  was  not  much  inferior  to  him 
in  skill.  He  also  has  the  credit  of  introducing  brass 
into  the  decorative  designs  on  iron  sword-guards. 
But  the  latter  specialty  is  more  correctly  associated 
with  the  name  of  Jingo,  who  worked  at  Yatsushiro, 
in  the  same  province  of  Higo,  in  1630.  Jingo's 
guards  have  brass  decoration,  boldly  chiselled  in  very 
high  relief.  They  were  always  greatly  appreciated 
in  Japan,  though  their  workmanship  scarcely  seems 
to  merit  that  distinction.  Jingo-tsuba  came  to  be 
the  generic  term  for  all  guards  having  brass  decorative 
designs  on  an  iron  ground. 

The  Soami  family  was  founded  at  the  end  of  the 
fourteenth  century  by  Masanori,  but  its  work  did  not 
attract  public  attention  until  the  time  (1410)  of 
Takatsune,  who  lived  in  Kyoto  and  chiselled  guards 
with  pierced  decoration.  Representatives  of  the 
family  were  working  in  various  parts  of  the  country 
in  the  sixteenth  century,  but  their  productions  had 
not  yet  become  remarkable. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  century  Hideyoshi,  the 

269 


JAPAN 

Taiko,  built  at  Fushimi,  overlooking  the  beautiful 
valley  of  the  Yodo  River,  a  castle  of  unprecedented 
magnificence.  The  best  artistic  resources  of  the  time 
were  devoted  to  the  interior  decoration  of  this 
"  Palace  of  Pleasure,"  as  it  was  called,  and  a  host  of 
skilled  artisans  and  artists  assembled  in  Fushimi  in 
connection  with  the  enterprise.  Few  of  the  works 
executed  for  the  Palace  have  survived,  but  the  chisel- 
ling of  the  silver  mounts  on  two  state  palanquins 
which  stood  in  the  vestibule  show  that  even  on  such 
objects  the  highest  skill  of  the  time  was  expended. 
It  is  known  incidentally  that  many  experts  great  in 
the  decoration  of  sword-mounts  worked  in  Fushimi 
during  the  brief  period  —  some  ten  years  —  of  its 
prosperity,  but  the  name  of  one  only  has  been  trans- 
mitted as  directly  associated  with  the  place.  This 
artist,  Kanaya,  evidently  belonged  to  the  artisan  class, 
for  his  family  name  is  unknown.  He  attained  re- 
nown for  chiselling  landscapes,  birds,  foliage,  and  the 
long,  feathery  moorland  grasses  so  much  affected  by 
Japanese  painters  and  sculptors.  His  work  is  com- 
pared by  Japanese  connoisseurs  to  a  moon-lit  water- 
scape seen  through  an  opening  in  a  pine  forest. 

SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY 

The  seventeenth  century  was  a  period  of  marked 
development.  For  the  first  time  during  five  hundred 
years  the  country  enjoyed  almost  complete  rest  from 
civil  wars,  and  there  sprung  up  among  the  various 
fiefs  keen  rivalry  in  the  fields  of  art  and  industry. 
One  of  the  fiefs  (Kaga)  must  be  specially  mentioned 
in  this  context.  The  feudal  chief  of  that  province  at 
the  time  was  Mayeda  Toshiiye.  When  the  Taiko 

270 


SWORD -FURNITURE 

turned  his  arms  against  the  celebrated  warrior  Shibata 
Katsuiye,  the  issue  of  the  combat  depended  largely 
upon  the  attitude  of  Mayeda  Toshiiye,  then  a  feuda- 
tory of  only  the  second  rank.  Mayeda  espoused  the 
Taik'os  cause,  and  as  recompense  for  his  fidelity  re- 
ceived in  fief  the  whole  province  of  Kaga,  thus  becom- 
ing at  once  one  of  the  wealthiest  and  most  puissant 
feudatories  in  the  Empire,  while,  at  the  same  time, 
the  remote  and  comparatively  inaccessible  position 
of  his  fief  rendered  him  virtually  independent  of  the 
government  in  Kyoto  or  Yedo.  Not  unnaturally, 
therefore,  when  the  tide  of  political  fortune  began  to 
set  against  the  Taiko  s  son,  and  when  Fushimi  ceased 
to  be  a  centre  of  prosperity,  a  number  of  the  artists  who 
had  settled  there  turned  their  faces  to  Kaga.  They 
were  received  most  hospitably  and  liberally  by  Mayeda 
Toshiiye.  Kanazawa,  the  chief  town  of  Kaga,  be- 
came thenceforth  one  of  the  principal  centres  of  art 
production  in  Japan,  and  has  retained  that  distinction 
down  to  the  present  day.  The  most  renowned  of  the 
families  established  there  by  artists  emigrating  from 
Fushimi  or  Kyot5  were  the  Kuwamura,  the  Goto, 
the  Mizuno,  the  Koichi,  the  Nagayoshi,  the  Kuninaga, 
the  Yoshishige,  the  Katsugi,  the  Tsuji,  the  Mune- 
yoshi,  and  the  Tadahira.  To  every  one  of  these 
houses  the  Kaga  chief  granted  liberal  pensions,  vary- 
ing in  amount  from  the  equivalent  of  3,500  yen  to 
250  yen  annually.  All  the  early  representatives  of  the 
Kuwamura  family  were  pupils  of  the  Goto  masters 
and  worked  in  the  Goto  style,  namely,  relief  chisel- 
ling in  various  metals  with  addition  of  gold  inlaying. 
Moriyoshi,  a  pupil  of  Goto  Kenzo,  was  the  first  re- 
corded member  of  the  house,  but  it  attained  the  sum- 
mit of  its  reputation  in  the  time  (1630)  of  Hiroyoshi, 

271 


JAPAN 

who,  under  his  art  name  of  Koko,  stands  in  the  fore- 
most rank  of  sword-mount  chisellers.  The  same  de- 
scription applies  to  the  Mizuno  family.  Its  founder, 
Yoshinori,  learned  his  art  under  Goto  Yenjo,  and 
neither  he  nor  his  successors  made  any  departure  from 
the  methods  of  the  Kyoto  masters.  It  may,  indeed, 
be  said  that  the  glyptic  movement  in  Kaga  was  entirely 
permeated  by  Goto  influence,  and  that  the  greatest  artists 
of  this  school  in  the  seventeenth  century  were  Hiro- 
yoshi  (Koko),  who  has  just  been  mentioned  ;  Kuninaga 
(the  first,  not  the  second,  of  the  name)  ;  Yoshishige 1 
(1620),  a  younger  brother  of  Kuninaga's,  who,  as 
well  as  Kuninaga,  had  studied  under  Goto  Takuzo ; 
and  Uji-iye  (1630)  of  the  Katsugi  family,  who  had 
the  official  title  of  Gon-dayu.  On  the  whole,  how- 
ever, the  characteristic  feature  of  the  Kaga  work  may 
be  said  to  have  been  profuse  inlaying  with  gold. 
Many  Japanese  connoisseurs  are  accustomed  to  credit 
Kuninaga  with  having  been  the  first  to  use  gold  in- 
laying in  the  decoration  of  sword-furniture.  That 
is  an  historical  inaccuracy.  But  it  is  certain  that 
Kuninaga's  inlaying  was  so  fine  as  to  become  pro- 
verbial, the  term  Jirosaku-hori  —  Jirosaku  was  Kuni- 
naga's personal  name  —  being  used  to  indicate  spe- 
cially delicate  specimens  of  that  nature,  to  whatever 
expert  they  owed  their  manufacture.  Perhaps  it  will 
be  correct  to  say  that  groove-inlaying  (hon-zbgari), 
as  distinguished  from  surface  damascening  (nuno-me- 
zogari),  began  to  be  practised  with  marked  success  at 
the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century,  for  it  ap- 
pears that  while  Kuninaga  was  winning  admiration 
for  such  work  in  Kaga,  Goto  Kiyoshi,  his  contempo- 
rary, was  becoming  equally  famous  in  the  same  line 

1  See  Appendix,  note  38. 

272 


S  WO  R  D-FU  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

in  Yedo.  The  Nagayoshi  family  of  Kaga,  who  began 
to  work  when  Kuninaga  was  at  the  zenith  of  his 
fame,  made  groove-inlaying  a  specialty,  and  devoted 
themselves  through  thirteen  successive  generations 
almost  entirely  to  that  branch  of  the  art,  so  that  they 
are  generally  spoken  of  as  the  Kaga  Zogan-ko  (In- 
layers  of  Kaga).  It  must  be  noted,  further,  that 
Kuninaga,  Goto  Kiyoshi,  and  the  Nagayoshi  experts 
of  Kaga  were  not  the  only  famous  inlayers  of  the 
epoch.  Shoami  Masanobu  (1620),  an  artist  of 
Kyoto,  produced  iron  guards  with  gold-inlaid  pictures 
of  the  Eight  Views  of  Omi  (Lake  Biwa),  which  were 
the  marvel  of  his  time;  and  Hosono  Masamori,  also  of 
Kyoto,  working  at  a  still  earlier  date, — the  end  of  the 
sixteenth  and  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury,—  showed  such  skill  in  hair-line  inlaying  (kebori- 
zogari)  that  by  some  authorities  he  is  regarded  as  the 
originator  of  that  kind  of  work.  Masamori  would 
have  been  remembered  for  his  chiselling  in  relief,  even 
though  he  had  not  distinguished  himself  specially  as 
a  zogan  worker.  A  contemporary  of  his,  Shoami 
Nagatsugu,  who  lived  at  Hino  in  Goshiu,  was  the 
first  to  inlay  brass  with  gold,  silver,  and  shakudo,  so 
that  inlaying  of  that  kind  came  to  be  known  as 
Yoshiro-fu  (Yoshiro  style),  Yoshiro  being  Nagatsugu's 
personal  name.  The  use  of  brass  as  a  field  for  gold 
or  silver  damascening  does  not,  when  cursorily  con- 
sidered, suggest  fine  results.  But  the  soft  and  tender 
effects  of  the  combination  are  admirable.  Altogether 
it  may  be  said  that  the  development  of  inlaying  was  a 
feature  of  art  progress  at  the  beginning  of  the  seven- 
teenth century. 

The  history  of  this  century  contains  so  many  inci- 
dents  of  importance    that    it    is  difficult    to    marshal 

VOL.   vii.  —  1 8  277 


JAPAN 

them  in  clear  sequence.  Certainly  one  of  the  most 
important  was  the  founding  of  the  Yokoya  family  in 
Yedo  by  Soyo,  who  worked  from  1621  to  1643. 
Soyo  is  supposed  to  have  invented  the  style  of  chisel- 
ling called  kata-kiri,  —  that  is  to  say,  cutting  the  lines 
of  a  design  in  channels  of  varying  depth  and  width, 
so  as  to  suggest  brush-work  rather  than  chiselling. 
It  is  impossible  to  say  whether  Soyo  really  invented 
this  style  or  whether  he  merely  brought  it  into 
public  notice  by  his  great  skill.  At  all  events,  its 
extensive  practice  dates  from  his  time,  and  it  was 
unquestionably  one  of  the  most  potential  additions 
made  to  the  art  in  any  era.  Speaking  broadly,  incised 
chiselling,  which  had  hitherto  been  mere  etching, 
became  thenceforth  painting.  The  Japanese  stand 
quite  solitary  in  this  work.  They  alone  among  the 
glyptic  artists  of  the  world  have  carried  the  element  of 
directness  so  thoroughly  into  the  ornamental  chiselling 
of  metallic  surfaces  that  every  line  is  completed  by  a  sin- 
gle stroke  of  the  tool,  and  that  each  line  has  its  own  spe- 
cial value  in  the  scale  of  modelling.  Soyo  received  a 
handsome  pension  in  perpetuity  from  the  Yedo  Court. 
He  did  not  confine  himself  to  kata-kiri  work,  but  carved 
in  relief  also  with  grand  force.  His  fame  is  eclipsed, 
however,  by  that  of  his  grandson  Somin  (1680-1733), 
whom  many  connoisseurs  count  the  greatest  chiseller 
of  metal  that  Japan  ever  produced.  He  scarcely 
deserves  such  unqualified  praise,  but  he  was  certainly 
a  grand  artist,  and  in  some  directions  he  has  never 
been  surpassed.  Beginning  life  with  the  position  of 
chiseller  to  the  Yedo  Court  and  an  annual  allowance 
—  hereditary  since  the  time  of  his  grandfather  Soyo  — 
equivalent  to  about  2,011  yen  yearly,  he  voluntarily 
resigned  the  distinction  and  its  associated  emoluments, 

274 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

and  devoted  himself  to  machi-bori  (literally,  street 
carving),  or  working  to  general  order.  This  step 
seems  to  have  been  inspired  by  pure  pride  of  art :  he 
desired  to  establish  an  entirely  independent  reputation 
for  himself,  and  to  owe  nothing  to  the  reputation  of 
his  family.  Like  Goto  Yujo,  who  had  obtained 
designs  from  the  great  painter  Kano  Motonobu, 
Somin  sought  assistance  from  two  -artists  famous  in 
his  time  and  in  all  time,  Tanyu  and  Hanabusa  Itcho. 
His  reproductions  of  the  drawings  of  these  masters  by 
the  kata-kiri  and  kebori  processes  were  so  admirable 
and  striking  that  the  public  unanimously  gave  him  the 
credit  of  having  originated  the  "  engraved  pictorial 
style "  (yefu  kebori},  though  the  conception  of  such 
work  undoubtedly  came  from  his  grandfather  Soyo 
and  was  adopted  by  his  father  Sochi.  It  is  difficult 
to  speak  too  highly  of  Somin's  chiselling.  There  is 
life  in  everything  that  he  produced.  A  spray  of 
peony  carved  by  him  contrasts  with  similar  work  by 
other  artists  as  a  real  blossom  contrasts  with  a  paper 
flower.  Accurate  examination  of  his  floral  work 
shows  that  the  style  of  the  petal  and  leaf  carving  is 
essentially  his  own,  but  that  his  stalks  and  branches 
combine  the  methods  of  the  Goto  and  Soyo  schools. 
Somin  often  worked  in  silver,  especially  in  chiselling 
kozuka.  It  may  be  mentioned  here  that  from  the 
days  of  the  early  Goto  masters  it  became  a  common 
custom  to  give  a  backing  of  pure  gold  to  kozuka  of 
high  quality.  Somin's  work  has  always  been  so 
much  valued  by  Japanese  connoisseurs  that  few  gen- 
uine specimens  seem  to  have  passed  into  foreign  hands. 
A  noble  example  was  lately  sold  by  the  principal  art 
auctioneers  in  London,  but  so  little  did  they  appreci- 
ate it  that  they  grouped  it  with  several  ordinary 

275 


JAPAN 

kozuka  and  sold  the  whole  en  bloc  !  It  is  possible  that 
many  English  collectors  may  thus  be  entertaining 
angels  unawares. 

The  celebrated  Nara  family,  which  deserves  and 
has  received  at  least  as  much  honour  as  the  Yokoya, 
had  its  origin  in  the  century  under  review.  "  Nara  " 
is  in  this  case  a  family  name,  not  the  name  of  a 
place.  Toshiteru,  an  expert  of  Kyoto  and  a  pupil  of 
the  Goto  school,  was  the  first  metal-chiseller  of  the 
family.  He  moved  to  Yedo  in  1620,  but  it  was  not 
until  the  time  of  his  son  Toshimune  (art  name, 
Sofei)  that  the  Nara  workers  began  to  be  famous. 
Their  style  was  then  severe  and  simple,  their  favourite 
designs  being  crows  perched  on  a  withered  branch, 
mandarin  ducks  in  water,  birds  beside  a  stream,  and 
such  things.  Toshiharu  (art  name,  Soyu,  date  1680) 
abandoned  this  narrow  range  of  subjects,  and  became 
a  landscape  carver  of  such  consummate  skill  that  the 
Yedo  Court  conferred  on  him  the  title  of  Techizen  no 
Kami,  and  he  was  thenceforth  known  in  the  world  of 
art  as  Techizen.  The  Nara  family  gave  to  Japan 
three  of  her  greatest  artists,  Toshiharu  (1680),  Toshi- 
hisa  (1720)  and  Yasuchika  (1730).  The  last  two  do 
not  belong  to  the  seventeenth  century,  but  are  men- 
tioned here  for  the  sake  of  convenience.  These  three 
are  commonly  spoken  of  as  the  Nara  Sambuku-tsui, 
or  "  three  pictures  en  suite  of  the  Nara  family."  No 
artists  stand  higher  in  Japanese  estimation.  Toshiha- 
ru's  art  name  was  Soyu ;  Yasuchika's  was  To-u,  and 
Toshihisa  is  often  called  Tahei,  but  these  appellations 
are  not  found  upon  their  works.  Yasuchika  belongs 
really  to  the  Tsuchiya  family,  but  was  adopted  into 
the  Nara.  He  ranks  as  the  greatest  of  the  three. 
They  all  carved  in  relief,  but  Toshihisa  and  Yasu- 

276 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

chika  combined  the  Yokoya  style  with  their  own, 
and  carved  figures,  plants,  flowers,  birds,  and  landscapes 
with  extraordinary  delicacy  and  force.  Yasuchika  is 
sometimes  called  the  "  Korin  "  of  carvers,  his  qualities 
of  boldness,  directness,  and  originality  being  not  less 
marked  than  those  of  the  great  painter  Ogata  Korin. 
His  works  as  well  as  those  of  Toshihisa  have  been 
largely  imitated,  but,  as  a  Japanese  connoisseur  of  the 
eighteenth  century  justly  says,  the  imitations  differ 
from  the  originals  as  widely  as  glass  differs  from 
diamond.  The  difference  may  be  illustrated  by  say- 
ing that  prior  to  the  Meiji  era  a  good  sword-guard  by 
one  of  the  "  Three  Pictures  "  sold  for  the  equivalent 
of  from  two  hundred  to  four  hundred  yen,  whereas  an 
imitation,  however  skilful,  was  appraised  at  about  as 
many  sen.1  It  should  be  noted  that  a  great  deal  of 
confusion  exists  between  Toshihisa,  and  his  teacher 
Toshinga.  That  is  partly  due  to  the  fact  that  the 
second  ideograph  of  the  former's  name  may  be  read 
naga,  but  also  to  the  fact  that  Toshinaga,  though  he 
has  received  less  recognition  than  Toshihisa,  can 
scarcely  be  called  an  inferior  artist,  and  that,  owing  to 
the  number  of  his  pupils,  he  exercised  a  lasting  influ- 
ence on  the  fame  of  the  family.  Toshinaga's  art 
name  was  Cbikan.  No  less  than  forty-four  experts 
of  the  Nara  school  worked  between  the  beginning  of 
the  seventeenth  and  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  though  only  six  of  them  were  actual  repre- 
sentatives of  the  family. 

The  century  was  remarkable  for  a  great  develop- 
ment of  the  art  of  chiselling  a  jour.  That  kind  of 
decoration,  as  already  shown,  represented  almost  the 
only  style  of  the  early  forgers  of  sword-guards,  and 

1  See  Appendix,  note  39. 

277 


JAPAN 

was  practised  by  them  with  much  success.  But  they 
treated  the  guard  as  though  it  were  a  block  of  card- 
board, and  were  content  with  the  simple  operation  of 
piercing,  so  that  the  decorative  design  appeared  in 
outline  only.  At  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century,  or 
the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth,  a  new  departure 
was  made  by  adding  surface  modelling  to  pierced 
work.  The  difference  thus  produced  can  be  easily 
explained  by  saying  that  whereas  a  design  of  cherry 
petals,  for  example,  took  the  form  of  a  mere  diaper 
according  to  the  old  method,  it  became,  according  to 
the  new,  a  cluster  of  accurately  shaped  blossoms  and 
leaves  suspended  within  the  circumference  of  the 
guard.  Under  this  artistic  impulse  the  guard  soon 
ceased  to  have  the  character  of  a  frame,  or  field,  for 
the  design,  and  was  wholly  absorbed  into  the  latter. 
An  immense  variety  of  beautiful  and  cleverly  con- 
ceived specimens  then  came  into  existence.  The  rim 
of  the  guard,  ceasing  to  be  rigidly  circular,  square,  or 
oval,  adapted  itself  to  the  demands  of  the  design  ;  and 
the  carver,  while  taking  care  not  to  sacrifice  the  pro- 
tective purpose  of  his  work,  allowed  himself  wide 
latitude  and  irregularity  of  shape.  Thus  the  "  ascend- 
ing "  and  "  descending "  dragons,  together  with  the 
clouds  among  which  they  fly,  were  disposed  so  that 
the  backs  of  the  monsters  formed  the  rim  of  the 
guard ;  and  a  procession  of  rats  pursuing  each  other 
in  a  circle  filled  all  the  space  surrounding  a  central 
haft-socket ;  or  a  branch  of  cherry-bloom,  or  of  plum- 
blossoms,  or  of  pine-branches,  or  a  cluster  of  all  three 
combined,  was  skilfully  bent  into  a  circular  medallion. 
Wreaths  of  iris,  sheaves  of  rice,  circlets  of  intertwined 
serpents,  loops  of  crayfish,  garlands  of  bean-sprays, 
—  it  would  scarcely  be  possible  to  enumerate  the 

278 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

multitude  of  notions  adopted  by  the  carvers  of  this 
school.  One  of  the  principal  centres  of  manufacture 
was  the  province  of  Choshiu,  the  Yamaguchi  Pre- 
fecture of  the  present  day.  As  early  as  the  close  of 
the  fourteenth  century,  an  expert  called  Mitsune  (art 
name,  *Jokan  Ins  hi)  began  to  work  at  Suwo  in  that 
province,  and  founded  the  Nakai  family.  This  artist 
and  his  immediate  successors  made  no  special  contri- 
butions to  the  art ;  they  followed  the  old  style  of 
decoration  applied  to  a  flat  surface.  But  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  seventeenth  century  Nobutsune,  a  scion 
of  the  family,  moved  from  Suwo  to  Hagi  in  the  same 
fief,  and  the  work  of  the  Nakai  experts  thenceforth 
began  to  attract  wide  attention.  Nobutsune's  grand- 
son, Tomoyuki  (1660,  the  first  of  that  name,  i.e. 
Zensuke,  as  distinguished  from  the  second,  Zembei), 
and  above  all  his  great-grandson,  Tomotsune  (1680), 
stand  in  the  front  rank  of  chisellers.  They  carved 
iron  guards  with  the  most  elaborately  chiselled  designs 
a  jour,  involving  both  faces  of  the  guard,  their  motives 
being  warriors,  mythological  figures,  birds,  animals, 
flowers,  landscapes,  fish,  insects,  in  short,  every  natural 
object  that  could  be  utilised  for  such  a  purpose. 
While  Tomoyuki  was  approaching  the  zenith  of  his 
fame,  an  expert  of  the  Umetada  family,  named  Meiju, 
moved  from  Kyoto  to  Hagi,  and  his  grandson  Nobu- 
masa  (1690)  established  the  Okada  family,  which 
contributed  several  good  artists  to  the  Choshiu  school. 
Another  and  more  important  family  whose  represen- 
tatives also  worked  at  Hagi,  was  the  Okamoto,1  of 
which  there  were  two  branches,  one  founded  at  the 
end  of  the  sixteenth  century  by  Tomoharu;  the  other, 
a  hundred  years  later,  by  Tomotsugu.  Yet  another 

1   See  Appendix,  note  40. 

279 


JAPAN 

family  was  the  Fujii,  founded  contemporaneously  with 
the  later  branch  of  the  Okamoto  by  Kyokaze.  No 
detailed  reference  need  be  here  made  to  the  experts 
that  bore  the  names  of  these  families.  Their  work 
was  nearly  all  in  the  same  style,  chiselling  a  jour  with 
surface  modelling;  but  in  comparatively  modern 
times  some  of  them  abandoned  that  fashion  and  be- 
came highly  skilled  in  relief  carving  of  the  Kyoto 
school.  The  material  used  by  the  Choshiu  artists 
was  invariably  iron,  which  they  tempered  and  treated 
with  marked  ability,  the  Satsuma  workers  alone  being 
counted  their  peers  in  that  respect.  Inlaying  and 
picking  out  with  gold  were  freely  resorted  to  in  the 
decoration  of  elaborate  specimens. 

But  it  is  to  the  Kinai  family  of  Yechizen  that  the 
seventeenth  century  owes  its  finest  examples  of  chisel- 
ling a  jour.  Remarkable  as  were  the  achievements 
of  this  family,  its  record  is  somewhat  obscure.  The 
best  authorities  agree,  however,  that  the  first  Kinai 
expert  worked  about  the  year  I68O,1  and  that  he 
was  succeeded  by  five  generations  of  the  family. 
They  all  used  the  mark  Kinai,  prefixing  the  ideograph 
Yechiztn  or  Techizen  no  Kuni,  and  their  productions 
are  thus  far  indistinguishable.  But  the  second  Kinai 
(1660)  was  incomparably  the  greatest  expert  of  the 
family.  It  will  scarcely  be  too  much  to  say  that  he 
stands  at  the  head  of  all  Japanese  sukashi  chisellers. 
He  carved  designs  a  jour  in  iron  with  as  much  deli- 
cacy and  elaboration  as  though  the  material  were 
paper.  Of  course  a  sword-guard,  which  must  have 
a  certain  degree  of  solidity  and  thickness,  does  not 
offer  the  best  field  for  such  work.  It  is  in  censers  — 
especially  clove-boilers  —  and  incense  boxes  that  the 

1  See  Appendix,  note  41. 

280 


n  arft  moil  noiaairmai  yd  nsjlct  ate  aemtDfrj  e>«»riT 


I 

2 

3 

Menuki. 

Menuki. 

Menuki. 

By  Goto  Sokujo. 

By  Tsuno  Jimpo. 

By  Goto  Teljo. 

4 
Menuki  In  Iron. 
By  Hamano  Shozui. 

5 
Menuki  In  Iron. 

By  Yokoya  Somin  and  Kikuoka 
Mitsuyuki. 

6 
Menuki  in  Iron. 
By  Kikuoka  Mitsuyuki 

7 
Menuki  in  Iron. 
By  Omori  Eishu. 

8 
Menuki. 

By  Chlzuka  Hlsanori,  pupil  of 
Omorl  Eishu. 

9 

Menuki. 
By  Iwamoto  Kankan. 

10 

11 

12 

Menuki. 

Menuki. 

Knife  Handle. 

By  Ishlguro  Masatsune. 

By  Konoharu  Aklra. 

By  Goto  Genjo. 

13 

14 

15 

Knife  Handle. 

Knife  Handle. 

Knife  Handle. 

By  Goto  Teijo. 

By-Nara  Toshinaga, 

Bj  Hamano  Shozai. 

16 

17 

18 

Knife  Handle. 

Knl£e  Handle. 

Knife  Handle. 

By  Suminoye  Busen. 

By  Murakami  Jochlku. 

By  Goto  Genjo. 

19 

20 

21 

Knife  Handle. 

Knife  Handle. 

Knife  Handle. 

By  Goto  Tsujo. 

By  Yakaya  Somin. 

By  Hosono  Masamori. 

22 

23 

24 

Knife  Handle. 

Knife  Handle. 

Ring  and  Tip. 

By  Kikuchi  Tsunechika. 

By  Goto  IchijS. 

By  Tsuchiya  Yasuchika. 

25 

26 

27 

Ring  and  Tip. 

Ring  and  Tip. 

Ring  and  Tip. 

By  Omorl  Eishu. 

By  Ishiguro  Masatsune. 

By  Nagatsune. 

28 

29 

Ring  and 

Tip. 

Ring  and  Tip. 

By  Suminoye 

Busen.                                           By 

Otsuki  Mitsuoki. 

(See  page-287.) 
These  pictures  are  taken  by  permission  from  the  negatives  of  the  Histoire  de  1'Art  du  Japan. 


17. 


26. 


29. 


27. 


26 


Z4- 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

most  wonderful  examples  of  Kinai's  skill  are  found. 
These  utensils  he  could  cast  of  wafer-like  thinness, 
decorating  them  afterwards  with  pierced  patterns  fine 
as  lace.  Many  exquisite  specimens  were  made  by 
him  to  order  of  the  feudal  chief  of  Yechizen,  who 
presented  them  to  the  Court  in  Yedo.  Thus  Kinai's 
chefs-d'oeuvre  came  to  be  called  Kenjo  Kinai  (pre- 
sentation Kinai),  a  term  generally  applied  in  later 
times  to  all  art  productions  of  superlative  excellence. 
The  Kinai  experts  are  specially  spoken  of  for  supple- 
menting pierced  decoration  with  surface  modelling. 
After  the  fame  of  the  family  had  been  established,  all 
the  sukashi-bori  work  produced  in  Yechizen,  whether 
from  the  Kinai  ateliers  or  not,  was  generally  classed 
as  Kinai-bori,  though  Kanemori  (1680)  and  Chiusaku 
1700),  working  independently,  turned  out  many  ex- 
amples so  good  as  to  deserve  distinct  mention. 

The  Akao  family  of  Yechizen  must  also  be  referred 
to.  Its  founder,  Yoshitsugu,  was  a  contemporary  of 
the  first  Kinai,  and  worked  in  the  same  style.  But  it  is 
on  account  of  his  son,  also  called  Yoshitsugu,  that  the 
family  chiefly  deserves  to  be  remembered ;  for  this 
artist  (1670)  was  the  first  to  employ  chiselling  a  jour 
in  the  decoration  of  shakudo  guards.  Such  work  had 
hitherto  been  confined  to  iron,  but  from  Yoshitsugu's 
time  it  came  to  be  applied  to  all  metals,  shakudo,  shi- 
buichi,  silver,  gold,  and  brass.  This  new  departure 
may  almost  be  said  to  mark  an  epoch,  for  by  skilful 
employment  of  the  sukashi  process  the  artist  was 
able  to  produce  effects  of  atmosphere  and  space 
which  immensely  enhanced  the  beauty  of  a  design.1 
Yoshitsugu2  subsequently  settled  in  Yedo,  and  was 
succeeded  by  experts  of  the  Akao  family  through 

1  See  Appendix,  note  42.  2  See  Appendix,  note  43. 

28l 


JAPAN 
several  generations,  but  none  of  them  attained  special 

skill. 

At  the  time  of  the  second  Kinai,  the  province  of 
Echizen  possessed  another  artist,  Kogitsune,  who  en- 
joys a  great  reputation  in  Japan.  Local  tradition 
says  that,  being  ordered  to  carve  a  lifelike  dragon  for 
the  chief  of  the  province,  he  sat  for  ten  days  and 
nights  in  the  open  air  at  Mikuni,  watching  the 
whirlwinds  for  which  that  place  was  remarkable. 
At  last  he  imagined  that  he  saw  a  dragon  in  one  of 
the  revolving  storms,  and  the  impression  was  so  vivid 
that  he  was  able  to  reproduce  the  monster  in  iron 
exactly  as  he  had  seen  it,  a  very  unusual  kind  of 
dragon. 

Before  dismissing  the  subject  of  chiselling  a  jour  in 
the  seventeenth  century,  reference  must  be  made  to 
Umetada  Muneyuki  (1650),  a  Kyoto  expert,  who  did 
magnificent  work  of  that  nature,  several  of  his  master- 
pieces being  made  to  order  of  the  Sboguns  Court  in 
Yedo  ;  and  also  to  the  Ito  family,  founded  by  Masanobu 
in  1670.  Masanobu,  commonly  called  Tsuboya 
Tasuke,  or  "  Tasuke  the  guard-maker,"  lived  in  Kyoto, 
and  won  a  high  reputation.  His  son,  Masatsune,  how- 
ever, was  the  artist  of  the  family  par  excellence.  He 
settled  in  Yedo,  received  the  appointment  of  guard- 
maker  to  the  Shogun's  Court,  and  was  scarcely  inferior 
to  the  second  Kinai  as  a  chiseller  of  decoration  a  jour. 
Representatives  of  the  Ito  family  continued  to  work 
in  Yedo  down  to  the  Metji  era,  and  one  of  them,  to 
whom  further  reference  will  be  made,  now  ranks 
among  the  masters  of  the  era.  The  Ito  chisellers 
followed  the  lead  of  Akao  Yoshitsugu,  and  worked  in 
sbakudo,  shibuichi,  etc.  as  well  as  in  iron. 

In  this  context  reference  must  be  made  to  a  school 

282 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

of  experts  who  worked  at  Hikone  in  Omi  province. 
Their  style  was  moulded  on  that  of  Kitagawa  S5den 
(circ.  1640),  who  forged  large  iron  guards  having 
curved  edges,  and  decorated  them  with  chiselling 
a  jour  as  well  as  surface  modelling.  The  peculiarity 
of  these  guards  was  that  the  figures  generally  sculp- 
tured were  those  of  Dutchmen,  Chinese,  or  some  of 
the  uncouth-looking  foreigners  depicted  in  ancient 
Japanese  encyclopedias  of  ethnography.  The  chisel- 
ling was  more  or  less  crude  and  clumsy,  and  gold 
damascening  was  usually  added.  Soden  used  the  mark 
Sobtisbi,  which  is  vulgarly  pronounced  Mogarasbi. 
Thus  his  guards,  and  those  subsequently  produced  at 
Hikone  in  the  same  style,  are  commonly  spoken  of  as 
Mogarashi-tsuba. 

Among  the  families  which  contributed  materially 
to  make  the  seventeenth  century  remarkable  for 
masterpieces  of  chiselling  in  all  grades  of  relief  and  in 
the  round,  with  occasional  additions,  in  later  times, 
of  the  kata-kiri  method  of  the  Yokoya  masters,  a  high 
place  must  be  assigned  to  the  Yoshioka  of  Yedo, 
founded  by  Shigehiro  at  the  close  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  and  brought  into  prominence  by  his  son 
Shigetsugu,  who  was  appointed  to  work  for  the  Yedo 
Court  in  the  year  1600  and  died  in  1653.  The 
Yoshioka  was  a  noble  family  of  Fujiwara  descent,  and 
its  early  representatives  had  the  titles  of  Bungo-no-suke 
and  Buzen-no-suke.  They  did  not  use  these  titles  in 
marking  their  works,  but  they  did  frequently  use  the 
title  Inaba-no-suke.  Attached  to  the  employment  of 
the  latter  there  was  a  restriction  characteristic  of 
Japanese  customs.  The  Inaba  branch  of  the  same 
family  had  a  hereditary  though  conditional  right  to 
the  high  post  of  court  councillor  (goroju^,  and  when- 

283 


JAPAN 

ever  an  Inaba  noble  held  that  office,  the  Yoshioka 
artists  were  precluded  from  putting  Inaba-no-suke 
on  their  works.  The  restriction  happened  to  be  in- 
operative in  the  days  of  Shigehiro  (called  also  Moro- 
tsugu,  and,  in  art  circles,  Sotoku)  and  Shigetsugu  (art 
name,  Soju),  the  latter  of  whom  is  commonly  spoken 
of,  with  reference  to  his  carvings,  as  Inaba-no-suke. 
His  forte  was  extreme  delicacy  and  fineness.  Among 
the  heirlooms  of  his  family  is  a  peach-stone  carved 
by  him  after  an  elaborate  drawing  of  a  Japanese  festi- 
val. The  preparation  of  the  stone  reduced  it  to  about 
two-thirds  of  its  natural  size,  and  on  the  scanty  sur- 
face that  remained  Shigetsugu  carved  eight  boats  each 
carrying  an  elaborate  festival-car,  and  each  manned  by 
thirty-three  monkeys.  Beside  the  water  on  which 
the  boats  floated  there  stood  a  grove  of  pine-trees,  and 
under  their  shadows  mandarin  ducks  sailed,  as  em- 
blems of  love  and  constancy.  Another  well-known 
example  of  his  skill  may  be  seen  at  the  temple  Zojo-ji, 
in  the  Shiba  Park  (Tokyo).  It  is  a  carving  on  stone, 
representing  the  Nirvana  of  Buddha  (Nehan-ko},  and 
it  was  executed  immediately  after  the  death  of  the 
second  Tokugawa  Shogun  (posthumous  name,  Tai-toku- 
in-den}y  when  Shigetsugu  was  in  his  seventy-third  year. 
The  Yoshioka  family  have  continued  to  work  in  Yedo 
through  successive  generations  down  to  the  present 
day,  and  a  branch  was  founded  in  Sendai  in  the 
middle  of  the  seventeenth  century  by  Kiyotsugu.  No 
novel  features  are  presented  by  the  Yoshioka  carvings  : 
they  combine  the  styles  of  all  the  schools. 

The  Isono  family,  which  came  into  note  in  the 
days  of  Jochiku  (1630),  commonly  called  Masuya 
Bunyemon,  ranked  with  the  Yoshioka  masters  for 
minute  and  delicate  chiselling,  but  were  distinguished 

284 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

by  more  profuse  use  of  gold  inlaying.  Jochiku  is 
considered  one  of  the  greatest  chisellers  of  insects  that 
Japan  ever  produced.  His  daughter,  Jotetsu,  whose 
works  are  spoken  of  as  musume-bori  (the  girl's  carvings), 
was  very  successful  in  the  same  line,  as  were  also 
several  of  his  pupils  and  descendants. 

It  was  in  the  early  part  of  this  century  (1620)  that 
Hikoshiro,  founder  of  the  Hirata  family,  began  to 
apply  vitrifiable  enamels  in  the  decoration  of  sword- 
furniture.  Technical  knowledge  of  the  enamelling 
processes  existed  in  Japan  before  his  time,  nor  does 
any  inventive  credit  belong  to  him  except  in  the 
matter  of  opaque  white  enamel,  which  he  was  the  first 
to  manufacture  and  which  remained  a  specialty  of  his 
family  down  to  recent  times.  All  the  other  enamels 
employed  by  him  —  green,  yellow,  blue,  red,  and 
purple  —  were  translucid  (suki-jippo).  Parts  of  the 
design  were  cloisonned,  so  as  to  receive  the  enamels,  and 
much  brilliancy  of  decorative  effect  was  thus  produced. 
The  Hirata  experts  cannot  be  ranked  with  Japan's 
best  glyptic  artists.  The  only  member  of  the  family 
who  deserves  to  be  called  a  great  chiseller  was  Haru- 
nari  (1810).  For  the  information  of  collectors  it  may 
be  mentioned  that  sword-mounts  having  enamel 
decoration  and  bearing  the  Hirata  mark  are  not 
necessarily  identifiable  as  products  of  the  Hirata 
family.  In  the  eighteenth  and  nineteenth  centuries, 
the  term  Hirata  was  used  to  designate  a  style  rather 
than  a  family,  and  artisans  often  carved  it  oj»  guards 
in  the  former  sense. 

In  addition  to  the  families  of  experts  already  spoken 
of  as  having  made  their  debut  in  this  century,  the 
following  may  be  noted  without  any  detailed  refer- 
ence :  —  the  Tsuji  of  Yedo,  founded  by  Masachika 

285 


JAPAN 

(1660),  which  produced  several  generations  of  skilled 
experts  ;  the  Nomura,  also  of  Yedo,  founded  by  Masa- 
oki  (1650);  the  Wakabayashi  of  Toyama  in  Yetchiu, 
founded  by  Kaneko  Denzaburo  (1690);  the  Inouye 
of  Kyoto,  founded  by  Saburozayemon  (1650);  the 
Yasui  of  Kyoto,  founded  by  Mitsusada  (1650)  and 
made  specially  famous  by  the  incomparable  chiseller 
Nagatsune  (1770),  commonly  called  Ichi-no-miya  Te- 
cbizen ;  the  Chiyo  of  Tsuyama  (in  Mimasaka),  founded 
by  Kinsuke  (1680),  whose  experts  produced  magnifi- 
cent silver  work ;  the  Kaneko  of  Kii,  founded  by 
Kichinojo  (1640);  the  Uyemura  of  Kyoto,  founded 
by  Yasunobu  (1600)  and  made  celebrated  by  Masuya 
Kuhei  (1600),  and  Masuya  Kichibei  (1720);  and 
greatest  perhaps,  of  all  these,  the  Iwamoto  of  Yedo, 
founded  by  Chiubei  (1680),  a  pupil  of  Yokoya  Somin. 
The  century  closed  when  Yanagawa  Naomasa,  one  of 
the  most  renowned  masters  in  the  whole  history  of 
the  art,  was  perpetuating  in  Yedo  the  noble  style  of  his 
teacher  Somin. 

EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY 

An  immense  quantity  of  beautiful  work  distin- 
guished this  century,  and  the  names  of  many  great 
experts  appear  in  its  annals,  but  it  added  nothing  to 
the  methods  already  practised.  Scores  of  skilled 
chisellers  devoted  themselves  to  perfecting  the  processes 
of  their  predecessors  without  inventing  any  new 
technical  mode,  and,  on  the  whole,  it  may  be  said 
that  the  distinguishing  features  of  the  century  were 
elaboration  of  detail  and  splendour  of  decorative 
effect.  Such  developments  were  consistent  with  the 
spirit  of  the  time,  for  the  country  had  now  enjoyed  a 

286 


SWORD -FURNITURE 

hundred  years  of  unprecedented  peace,  and  the  various 
principalities  throughout  the  empire,  ceasing  to  be 
disturbed  by  problems  of  military  expansion  and 
perils  or  projects  of  aggression,  had  become  competi- 
tive centres  of  art  production. 

At  the  opening  of  the  century  Gorobei  of  Kyoto  is 
found  chiselling  iron  guards  with  decoration  a  jour  so 
skilfully  that  the  term  kinai,  which  had  previously 
been  used  to  designate  particularly  delicate  and  elabo- 
rate work  of  this  description  was  now  replaced  by 
Daigoro-saku,  a  name  obtained  by  compounding  the 
first  ideographs  of  Daimonji-yay  as  the  artists'  atelier 
was  called,  and  "  Gorobei.'*  Contemporaneous  with 
Gorobei  was  Shoyemon,  called  also  Tomoyoshi  or 
Yuki,  who  has  had  few  peers  as  a  maker  of  mokume 
grounds.  Shoyemon  is  generally  known  as  Nomura 
Masa-ya.1  He  entered  the  service  of  the  feudal  chief 
of  Awa,  and  founded  a  branch  of  the  Nomura  family 
in  Tokushima,  the  capital  of  that  fief.  It  should  be 
noted  that  Yedo  was  the  seat  of  the  elder  branch  of 
the  Nomura  family,  which  was  founded  by  Masatoki 
(1660),  and  gave  to  Japan  a  number  of  well-remem- 
bered experts,  —  Masanori  (art  name,  Itoku,  1790), 
Masayoshi  (art  name,  Suibaku,  1760);  Masatsugu 
(1760);  Masayoshi  (art  name,  Katdji,  1790),  and 
others.  All  these  experts  excelled  in  the  production 
of  mokume,  but  were  also  appreciated  for  their  chisel- 
ling in  relief.  The  most  celebrated  of  all  the  Nomura 
masters  was  Jimpo  (1750),  commonly  called  Tsu 
Jimpo.  He  took  his  designs  from  the  pictures  of 
Tanyu,  the  greatest  artist  of  the  preceding  century, 
and  his  chiselling  shows  extraordinary  minuteness  and 
delicacy.  Numerous  imitations  of  his  work  were 

1  See  Appendix,  note  44. 

287 


JAPAN 

produced  in  the  second  half  of  the  eighteenth  century. 
Scarcely  less  renowned  was  another  'member  of  the 
same  family,  artistically  known  as  Hiyobu-jo  or  Tusen 
(1790).  His  literary  talents  were  as  great  as  his 
glyptic  skill,  and  he  received  from  the  Yedo  Court  the 
honorary  title  of  Hogen. 

It  is  observable  that  in  this  century  the  artists 
showed  a  disposition  to  make  a  specialty  of  particular 
fields  of  design.  Thus  Shoami  Tempo  (1700),  of 
Kyoto,  confined  himself  almost  exclusively  to  chisel- 
ling peonies  and  chrysanthemums  tossed  by  the  wind. 
Kikugawa  Muneyoshi  (1720),  of  Yedo,  commonly 
called  Chobei,  carved  chrysanthemums  so  admirably 
that  Chobei- kiku  (Chobei  chrysanthemums)  came  to  be 
a  synonym  for  exceptionally  fine  work  of  this  class. 
Nara  Ichibei  (1730),  pupil  of  the  great  Nara  Yasu- 
chika,  became  so  celebrated  for  chiselling  the  land- 
scapes of  Omi  that  his  contemporaries  spoke  of  him 
as  Miidera 1  Ichibei.  Nara  Masanaga  ( 1 740)  obtained 
equal  fame  for  his  moor-scapes  with  a  praying 
mantis  and  tufts  of  soft  feathery  susuki  (Eularia  ja- 
ponica}  in  the  foreground.  Uyemura  Munemine 
(1720)  of  Kyoto  excelled  in  the  chiselling  of  warriors. 
Yasuyama  Motozumi  (1760),  of  Mito,  one  of  the 
greatest  masters  of  any  era,  who  was  known  in  art 
circles  as  Sekijoken  or  Togu  chiselled  mythological 
Chinese  figures  with  extraordinary  force  and  delicacy, 
his  favourite  metal  being  sbibuichi.  Shinshichi,  of 
Osaka  (1730),  chose  a  fishing-rod  and  river  trout  as 
his  specialty.  Noda  Yoshihiro  (1730),  of  Yedo, 
chiselled  groups  of  fishes  with  admirable  fidelity. 
Tamagawa  Yoshihisa  (1790),  of  Mito,  made  himself 
famous  by  his  dragons.  Fujita  Katsusada  (1700),  of 

1  See  Appendix,  note  45. 

288 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

Osaka,  is  remembered  for  his  wonderful  masks  and 
cuttle-fish.  Kikuoka  Mitsuyuki  (1780),  of  Yedo,  ar- 
tistically known  as  Dopposai  or  Saikaon,  an  artist  of 
the  highest  ability,  is  held  to  have  equalled  Somin  as 
a  carver  of  peonies;  and  Shoami  Morikuni  (1730), 
of  Matsuyama  (lyo  province),  has  had  few  equals  as  a 
chiseller  of  dragons  and  clouds.  This  list  might  be 
greatly  prolonged,  but  such  distinctions  are  apt  to  be 
misleading,  since  in  many  cases  they  suggest  a  nar- 
rower range  of  motives  than  the  artists  in  question 
really  selected. 

The  Nara  family  made  large  contributions  to  the 
finest  productions  of  this  century.  Toshihisa  and 
Yasuchika,  who  worked  during  the  first  half  of  the 
century,  have  already  been  spoken  of,  and  with  them 
must  be  bracketed  Joi  (art  name,  Issando  Nagaharu, 
1720),  who  by  many  connoisseurs  is  regarded  as  the 
peer  of  the  "  Three  Nara  Pictures."  It  is  not  cer- 
tain whether  Joi  belonged  originally  to  the  Nara 
family  or  was  adopted  into  it.  He  learned  carving 
from  Nara  Hisanaga  (art  name,  Zenzo),  who,  in  turn, 
was  a  brilliant  pupil  of  the  celebrated  Nara  Toshinaga. 
Joi  excelled  in  the  shishi-ai  style  of  carving.  His 
work  was  singularly  soft  without  sacrificing  strength, 
and  he  chose  elaborate  subjects,  using  gold  freely  for 
purposes  of  damascening  and  picking  out.  He  drew 
his  motives  chiefly  from  martial  history,1  but  he 
chiselled  flowers,  also,  and  landscapes  with  consum- 
mate skill.  Three  other  members  of  the  Nara  family 
deserve  a  place  in  this  context.  They  are  Masanaga 
(1740),  his  son  Masachika  (1760),  and  Masanobu. 
Masanaga  (art  name,  Seiraku)  was  a  pupil  of  Toshihisa. 
Reference  has  already  been  made  to  his  celebrated 

1  See  Appendix,  note  46. 

VOL.  vii.  —  19  289 


JAPAN 

landscapes  with  a  praying  mantis  and  tufts  of  Eularia 
japonic*  in  the  foreground.  His  son,  Masachika, 
became  a  pupil  of  Joi  in  the  latter's  old  age,  and  took 
the  art  name  of  Jowa.  He  did  not  reach  the  high 
level  of  either  his  teacher  or  his  father,  but  he  was 
undoubtedly  a  grand  expert.  Nara  Masanobu  (1750) 
had  the  art  names  of  Kikuju-sai  and  Kiko.  His 
works  are  greatly  prized  by  Japanese  connoisseurs,  but 
as  his  specialty  was  the  carving  of  the  amariyo  (the 
rain-dragon),  he  does  not  appeal  strongly  to  foreign 
taste. 

At  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century  and  the 
beginning  of  the  eighteenth,  Nagasaki's  experts  were 
brought  into  prominence  by  Kizayemon,  artistically 
known  as  Jakushi.  Nagasaki,  from  time  immemo- 
rial, had  been  permeated  by  Chinese  influences,  being 
the  centre  of  trade  and  intercourse  between  Japan  and 
the  neighbouring  empire.  Hence  its  chisellers  of 
sword-mounts  affected  designs  generally  called  kwanto- 
gata,  or  Canton  style,  many  examples  of  which  may 
be  seen  throughout  the  whole  field  of  Japanese  deco- 
rative art.  The  familiar  "  willow-pattern "  is  the 
worst  specimen  of  this  type.  Its  features  are  stiff 
figures  of  Chinese  warriors,  court  ladies,  mandarins  or 
historical  personages,  set  in  a  stereotyped  garden  with 
architectural  accompaniment ;  or  little  children  — 
the  well-known  kara-ko  (Chinese  children)  —  with 
tonsured  heads,  playing  various  out-door  games ;  or 
dragons  of  more  or  less  conventionalised  shape. 
Jakushi  carved  dragons,  but  he  also  chiselled  land- 
scapes, bamboos  tossed  by  the  wind  and  other  designs 
of  flowers  and  foliage,  and  his  skill  was  so  conspicu- 
ous that  in  Nagasaki  people  learned  to  use  the  term 
Jakusbi-bori  as  generally  distinctive  of  beautiful  work. 

290 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

The  use  of  kwanto-gata  motives  are  riot  confined  to 
Nagasaki  experts.  Goto  Kiyonori,  who  worked  in 
Yedo  contemporaneously  with  Jakushi,  became  cele- 
brated for  similar  carving,  and  examples  of  it  are  not 
infrequently  found  among  the  productions  of  inferior 
experts.  These  kwanto-tsuba,  and  the  mogarasbi  tsuba 
already  described,  are,  perhaps,  the  least  interesting 
of  all  the  ko-dogu. 

The  artists  thus  far  noticed  as  belonging  to  the 
eighteenth  century  were  all  representatives  of  families 
established  at  an  earlier  date.  Families  which  not 
only  gave  lustre  to  the  century  but  also  had  their 
origin  in  it,  are  the  Hamano,  the  Omori,  the 
Iwamoto,  and  the  Okamoto.  These  houses  produced 
experts  who  may  be  said  to  have  carried  the  art  to 
its  zenith. 

The  Hamano  family  of  Yedo  first  came  into  note 
in  the  days  of  Masayori  (1730),  a  pupil  of  the  great 
Nara  Toshihisa.  Masayori  is  always  known  as  Sh5zui, 
the  alternative  pronunciation  of  the  ideographs  form- 
ing his  name.  He  had  many  art  titles  —  Otsuriuken, 
Miboku  Rifudo,  etc.  He  worked  chiefly  in  shakudo, 
but  often  in  iron,  not  making  any  departure  from  the 
Nara  style,  but  using  his  chisels  with  extraordinary 
strength  yet  at  no  sacrifice  of  grace  and  delicacy. 
The  Soken  Kisbo  says  that  the  lines  of  his  carving  are 
like  "  the  storm  of  a  tiger's  roar  or  the  wind  of  a  drag- 
on's rush  through  the  clouds."  It  may  be  truly  said 
of  the  Hamano  family  that  it  did  not  give  one  in- 
ferior artist  to  Japan.  Sh5zui  himself  was  probably 
the  greatest,  but  his  pupils  Moriyuki  and  Noriyori, 
and  his  successors  Masanobu  (1780)  and  Norinobu 
(1790)  rank  almost  as  his  peers.1  The  Hamano 

1  See  Appendix,  note  47. 

291 


JAPAN 

artists  achieved  their  greatest  successes  in  figure  sub- 
jects, but  among  specimens  by  Shozui  there  are  found 
some  exquisitely  delicate  and  lifelike  carvings  of  bees, 
spiders,  fireflies  and  herons. 

The  Omori  family  of  Yedo  is  generally  supposed 
to  have  been  founded  by  Shigemitsu,  who  worked  in 
the  opening  years  of  the  eighteenth  century,  but  his 
father,  Shirohei,  a  samurai  of  Odawara,  was  really  the 
first  Omori  carver.  Chronologically,  therefore,  the 
family  should  have  been  referred  to  in  the  notice  of 
the  seventeenth  century ;  but  it  is  placed  in  the  eigh- 
teenth because  it  did  not  begin  to  be  famous  until  the 
days  of  Shigemitsu.  The  latter  had  the  advantage  of 
studying  under  two  of  the  great  Nara  masters,  Ichibei 
—  mentioned  above  as  "Miidera  Ichibei"  —  and 
Yasuchika.  He  carved  with  great  skill  in  the  Nara 
fashion.  It  was  by  his  pupil  Terumasa,  however,  that 
the  style  of  the  Omori  family  was  fixed  —  namely, 
a  combination  of  the  Nara  and  Yokoya  methods, 
with  extreme  elaboration  of  detail  and  profuse  use 
of  all  decorative  adjuncts,  such  as  inlaying  and  pick- 
ing out  with  gold,  silver,  copper,  etc.  Terumasa 
received  instruction  from  the  great  Somin  (Yokoya) 
as  well  as  from  Shigemitsu,  and  would  doubtless  be 
remembered  as  a  most  distinguished  artist  had  not 
his  fame  been  completely  eclipsed  by  that  of  his 
adopted  son,  Teruhide  (1748-1798),  known  in  art 
circles  as  Ittosai  or  Riu-u-sai.  Teruhide  was  a  grand 
chiseller.  Some  of  his  high-relief  peony  sprays  in 
gold  on  shakudo  are  not  inferior  to  S5min's  master- 
pieces. He  is  said  to  have  been  the  first  to  carve 
wave  diaper  in  high  relief,  and  to  him  was  due  a  splen- 
didly decorative  ground  of  shakudo  inlaid  with  gold 
in  the  aventurine  pattern.  The  Soken  Kisho,  says  of 

292 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

Teruhide  :  "  His  chiselling  has  force  that  would  rend 
a  rock.  His  wave  diapers  deeply  carved  in  shibuichi 
are  magnificent,  and  nothing  could  exceed  the  beauty 
of  his  peonies  in  high  relief  on  aventurine  grounds. 
He  seems  to  have  based  his  method  of  carving  flowers 
on  Somins  celebrated  ichirin-botan  (single-blossom 
peony).  His  martial  figures  also  are  grand."  It 
may  be  said  that  peonies  and  Dogs  of  Fo  (shuhi\  were 
Teruhide's  specialties.  Among  ten  choice  examples 
of  his  work  in  a  Tokyo  collection,  only  two  are  with- 
out peony  flowers  either  in  the  principal  or  a  subor- 
dinate place.  Many  artists  bore  the  family  name  after 
Teruhide's  time,  but  although  their  work  was  of  the 
finest  quality  from  a  decorative  point  of  view,  they 
scarcely  merit  special  mention  on  account  of  their 
glyptic  skill. 

Concerning  the  Iwamoto  family  of  Yedo  the  same 
remark  applies  as  that  made  about  the  Omori,  namely, 
that  although  founded  in  the  seventeenth  century,  it 
did  not  become  famous  until  the  eighteenth.  The 
founder  was  Chiubei  (1680),  a  pupil  of  the  celebrated 
Yoko-ya  Somin,  and  the  family's  greatest  master  was 
Konkwan  (1/60-1801),  who  is  counted  one  of 
Japan's  most  skilled  chisellers  of  fishes  of  all  kinds 
(especially  Crustacea),  but  who  also  carved  with  ad- 
mirable ability  wild-fowl,  insects,  flowers  and  even 
figures.  Konkwan  had  three  art  names,  but  he  seems 
to  have  always  marked  his  pieces  Iivamoto  Konkwan. 
The  productions  of  the  Iwamoto  experts  were  not 
so  elaborately  decorative  as  those  of  the  Omori,  but 
as  an  artist  Konkwan  is  certainly  not  inferior  to  Teru- 
hide. It  is  recorded  that  during  the  latter  years  of 
his  life  the  Iwamoto  master  was  so  besieged  by  clients 

293 


JAPAN 

that  he  finally  hung  out  this  sign  :   "  Orders   cannot 
be  quickly  executed.      Importunity  is  deprecated." 

The  Okamoto  family  of  Kyoto  was  a  branch  of 
the  great  Okamoto  of  Hagi  (Choshiu),  already 
alluded  to.  It  was  founded  in  1750  by  Harukuni 
(originally  called  Kuniharu),  who  is  known  in  art 
circles  as  Tetsuya-ya  Dembei  (Dembei  the  Iron  chisel- 
ler).  Harukuni  worked  in  iron.  Although  the  rep- 
resentatives of  his  family  in  Choshiu  were  celebrated 
chiefly  for  chiselling  *a  jour,  he  reduced  that  kind  of 
decoration  to  a  subordinate  position,  and  relied  more 
upon  relief  carving  in  all  its  grades,  as  well  as  upon 
the  kata-kiri  method.  Indeed,  by  Dembei' s  time 
the  experts  of  Kyoto  and  Yedo  had  ceased  to  make 
a  jour  chiselling  the  principal  feature  in  a  decorative 
scheme.  They  preferred  to  utilise  such  work  with 
reference  to  its  pictorial  suggestiveness.  Thus  a  de- 
lightful effect  of  space  and  atmosphere  is  produced 
by  clouds  chiselled  a  jour,  with  a  silver  moon  strug- 
gling through  them,  its  disc  revealed  in  the  open 
spaces  and  concealed  by  the  solid  rack  ;  or  the  sheen 
of  water  is  obtained  by  a  delicate  outline  of  transpar- 
ent carving ;  or  the  leaves  and  branches  of  a  tree  are 
projected  against  the  sky  by  cutting  out  all  interven- 
ing portions.  Even  when  the  a  jour  feature  predomi- 
nated, it  was  always  associated  with  decoration  carved 
in  the  round,  so  that  it  served  chiefly  to  detach  the 
sculptured  object  from  the  flat  surface. 


294 


;  ;;  Chapter  VIII 

SCULPTURE    ON   SWORD-FURNITURE 

(Continued r) 

ONE  of  the  most  illustrious  artists  of  this 
century,  or  indeed  of  any  century,  was 
Kashiwaya  Nagatsune  (1750-1786),  called 
in  art  circles  Setsuzan  or  GanshoshL  It 
is  difficult  to  conceive  a  higher  standard  of  force, 
accuracy,  and  grace  than  he  attained.  He  seems 
to  have  worked  almost  entirely  on  shakudo  and 
shibuichi  bases,  but  he  used  gold,  silver,  and  copper 
freely  for  decorative  purposes.  In  his  early  days  the 
objects  that  he  preferred  to  chisel  were  frogs,  snails, 
beetles,  and  so  forth,  and  generally  he  added  a  tuft  of 
the  grass  called  tsukushi  (a  species  of  horse-tail).  But 
he  subsequently  extended  his  range  to  dragons,  figures, 
demons,  masks,  and  other  objects,  and  among  his  nu- 
merous works,  all  of  which  are  highly  valued  in 
Japan,  there  is  not  one  of  inferior  quality.  His 
Deva  Kings,  chiselled  in  high  relief  in  shakudo  with 
gold  decoration,  may  be  compared  to  the  celebrated 
wooden  statues  at  the  temple  Kofuku-ji.  Japanese 
connoisseurs  liken  the  nobility  and  purity  of  Nagat- 
sune's  style  to  "  the  moon  rising  over  Obate  moun- 
tain." In  recognition  of  his  exceptional  talent  he 
was  honoured  by  the  Kyoto  court  with  the  title  of 
Daijo  of  Ichi-no-miya  in  Yechizen.  His  son,  Naga- 

295 


JAPAN 

yoshi,  did  not  fall  greatly  short  of  Nagatsune  himself 
in  ability.      Both  worked  in  Kyoto. 

The  only  remaining  names  that  need  be  especially 
referred  to  in  the  history  of  the  eighteenth  century 
are  those  of  Kusakari  Kiyosada  (1790),  generally 
known  as  Kusakari  Hachisaburo,  who  is  said  to 
have  been  the  greatest  inlayer  that  ever  worked  in 
Sendai ;  Shichibei  (i/oo)  of  Kyoto,  whose  fame  as 
an  inlayer  procured  for  particularly  fine  work  of  that 
nature  the  term  Zoshichi ;  and  Ito  Kiyoyasu  (1750) 
of  Yedo,  the  first  to  become  celebrated  for  the  variety 
of  inlaying  called  sumi-zogan. 

NINETEENTH    CENTURY 

By  more  than  one  Western  critic  of  Japanese 
metal-work  it  has  been  asserted  that  a  period  of 
decadence  set  in  before  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  and  that  all  productions  subsequent  to  the 
year  1835  or  1840  show  evidences  of  deterioration. 
It  would  be  very  difficult  to  discover  any  valid 
grounds  for  such  a  statement,  nor  is  it  endorsed  for 
a  moment  by  Japanese  connoisseurs.  Everywhere 
dilettanti  may  be  found  whose  estimate  of  the 
merits  of  a  work  of  art  ascends  with  the  cycles  that 
have  elapsed  since  its  production.  But  that  kind  of 
picturesque  romance  belongs  to  a  special  domain  of 
aesthetic  education,  and  while  its  contentions  are  par- 
tially admissible  so  long  as  they  refer  to  a  Somin,  a 
Yasuchika,  a  Naomasa,  or  a  Kinai,  they  must  be  set 
aside  ruthlessly  when  they  do  flagrant  injustice  to  the 
numerously  peopled  school  of  fine  artists  in  metal 
who  worked  for  Japan  during  the  first  seven  and  a 
half —  not  the  first  three  —  decades  of  the  nineteenth 

296 


SWORD- FURNITURE 

century.  And  in  speaking  of  the  first  seven  and  a 
half  decades,  it  is  not  intended  to  suggest  that  the 
year  1875  saw  the  end  of  her  artistic  metal-work. 
On  the  contrary,  the  reader  already  knows  that  the 
art  has  merely  developed  new  phases  in  modern 
times,  and  that  not  only  are  its  masters  as  skilled 
now  as  they  were  in  the  days  of  the  Goto,  the  Nara, 
the  Yokoya,  and  the  Yanagawa  celebrities,  but  also 
that  their  productions  must  be  called  in  many  respects 
greater  and  more  interesting  than  those  of  their 
renowned  predecessors.  If  sword-mounts  alone  be 
considered,  the  year  1876  may  be  taken  as  the  time 
of  the  art's  demise,  for  in  1876  the  wearing  of 
swords  was  interdicted  and  purchasers  of  their  furni- 
ture were  at  once  reduced  from  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  samurai  and  privileged  persons,  to  a  few  scores  of 
foreign  curio-collectors.  Thousands  of  grand  speci- 
mens found  their  way  at  once  to  the  melting-pot  for 
the  sake  of  the  modicum  of  precious  metal  that 
could  be  extracted  from  them,  and  in  an  incredibly 
short  time  the  multitude  of  master-pieces  that  must 
have  existed  in  1876  disappeared  almost  completely. 
The  fate  of  that  great  assemblage  of  beautiful  objects 
is  indeed  a  mystery.  Hundreds  of  skilled  experts 
had  been  engaged  continuously  during  five  centuries 
on  their  production  ;  millions  of  samurai  had  taken  a 
pride  in  their  possession,  and  the  objects  themselves 
were  imperishable.  Yet  in  less  than  thirty-five  years 
they  virtually  ceased  to  be  procurable  in  Japan.  It 
is  true  that  a  considerable  number  went  to  Europe 
and  America,  and  that  an  equal,  or  perhaps  even  a 
larger,  number  remained  in  Japanese  collections. 
But  what  comparison  can  be  set  up  between  the  petty 
fraction  thus  accounted  for  and  the  vast  multitude 

297 


JAPAN 

that  must  have  existed  at  the  moment  when  the  edict 
of  1 876  went  forth  ?  This  is  one  of  the  most  curious 
pages  of  the  iconoclastic  chapter  opened  simultane- 
ously with  the  opening  of  Japan  to  foreign  intercourse. 
As  the  old  order  changed,  the  beauties  it  had  be- 
queathed to  the  country  were  swept  away  with  the 
blemishes  it  had  begotten  ;  and  if  the  process  was  some- 
times slow  in  the  latter  case,  it  was  often  almost  miracu- 
lously rapid  in  the  former.  Incredible  though  the  fact 
may  seem,  it  is  nevertheless  a  fact  that  when,  about  the 
year  1880,  United  States'  collectors  began  to  interest 
themselves  keenly  in  Japanese  sword-mounts,  and  to 
acquire  them  in  the  resolute  manner  of  New  York 
and  Chicago,  the  supply  of  genuine  specimens  could 
not  meet  this  fitful  and  comparatively  paltry  demand, 
and  the  forger  drove  a  brisk  trade  for  a  season,  cast- 
ing where  he  could  not  chisel,  and  substituting  flash 
and  profusion  of  ornament  for  force  and  delicacy  of 
sculpture.  To-day,  an  amateur  applying  himself  in 
Japan  to  make  a  representative  collection  of  fine 
sword-mounts  could  not  hope  for  more  than  very 
partial  success.  Those  that  are  already  fortunate  in  the 
possession  of  such  objects  may  therefore  congratulate 
themselves,  for  while  in  every  other  branch  of  Japan- 
ese art  no  serious  break  has  occurred  in  the  continuity 
of  successful  production,  the  sword-mount  is  altogether 
a  thing  of  the  past  and  will  never  again  occupy  the 
attention  of  great  sculptors. 

As  to  the  assertion  made  above  that  sword-mount 
experts  continued  to  work  with  undiminished  skill 
down  to  the  year  1876,  a  better  illustration  cannot 
be  adduced  than  that  of  Goto  Ichijo.  The  reader 
will  probably  have  observed  that,  in  these  records  of 
centuries,  no  reference  is  made  to  the  Goto  family. 

298 


S  WO  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

It  is  not  to  be  inferred,  of  course,  that  the  omission 
indicates  absence  of  merit  or  of  celebrity.  But  at  the 
outset  considerable  space  was  devoted  to  the  Goto 
masters,  and  it  has  not  seemed  necessary  to  speak  sub- 
sequently of  the  various  experts  born  in  the  branches 
of  the  family ;  for  although  many  of  them  were  great 
carvers,  they  did  not  originate  any  new  style,  and  the 
indications  given  in  the  appended  list  of  Glyptic 
Artists  are  probably  sufficient  to  show  the  Gotos' 
share  in  the  development  of  the  art.  It  may  be  ex- 
plained here,  however,  that  in  addition  to  the  princi- 
pal family  and  its  two  great  branches  in  Kyoto  —  the 
Kami-Goto  and  the  Shimo-Goto  —  there  were  in 
that  city  two  minor  branches ;  in  Kaga  a  branch 
founded  by  Ichiyemon,  a  pupil  of  Kenjo,  in  1610; 
and  in  Noto  a  branch  founded  in  1550  by  Jinyemon, 
a  pupil  of  Takujo.  Goto  Yeijiro,  afterwards  known 
as  Goto  Ichijo,  was  born  in  1791  and  died  in  1876. 
The  second  son  of  the  fifteenth  representative  of  the 
principal  family,  he  was  adopted  into  the  branch 
house  of  Hachirobei  (art  name,  Kenjo),  to  whose 
hereditary  pension  of  fifty  koku  of  rice  he  succeeded  in 
1805,  taking  the  names  Mitsuyo  and  Hachirobei. 
When  only  nineteen  years  of  age  he  received  a  com- 
mission to  carve  mounts  for  a  sword  belonging  to  the 
Emperor  Kokaku,  and  he  succeeded  so  well  that  the 
title  of  Hokkyo  was  accorded  to  him,  together  with  a 
reward  of  twenty  pieces  of  silver  and  five  bundles  of 
silk.  In  his  thirty-fourth  year  he  was  invited  to 
Yedo  by  the  Tokugawa  Court,  received  a  house  and 
a  perpetual  pension  of  ten  rations,  which  was  after- 
wards increased  from  time  to  time,  until,  in  1862,  he 
attained  the  highest  art  rank,  that  of  Hogen.  Ichijo 
had  no  less  than  fifty  pupils,  all  of  whom  worked 

299 


JAPAN 

with  considerable  success.  Among  them  was  occa- 
sionally numbered  Natsuo,  who  probably  deserves  to 
rank  next  to  Ichijo  among  the  masters  of  the  nine- 
teenth century.  Ichijo  has  left  it  on  record  that  in 
his  youth  he  made  a  habit  of  praying  at  the  shrine 
of  Fushimi  Inari  that  the  deity  would  grant  him  skill. 
One  night  after  his  devotions,  he  fell  asleep  and  saw 
in  a  dream  a  dragon  carved  by  his  illustrious  ancestor, 
Goto  Yujo.  Thenceforth  he  had  before  his  eyes  a 
perfect  model  of  a  dragon.  His  workmanship,  how- 
ever, was  finer  than  anything  done  by  Yujo.  Jap- 
anese connoisseurs  say  that  it  combines  the  soft  style 
of  Goto  Kwojo  with  the  microscopic  minuteness  of 
Goto  Kenjo,  and  a  story  is  told  that  a  party  of  skilled 
experts  being  challenged  to  name  the  maker  of  a  set 
of  sword-mounts  by  Ichijo  without  seeing  the  name 
carved  on  the  back,  were  divided  in  opinion  as  to 
whether  the  work  should  be  ascribed  to  Kwoj5  or  to 
Kenjo.  These  details  furnish  some  indication  of  the 
career  of  a  great  Japanese  carver,  and  of  the  honours 
extended  to  him.  There  was,  indeed,  no  limit  to 
the  appreciation  he  received.  Among  the  archives 
of  Ichijo's  family  there  is  a  letter  addressed  to  the 
artist  by  Okubo  Toshimitsu,  one  of  the  leading  states- 
men of  the  Restoration.  It  is  couched  in  terms  of 
the  most  profound  politeness ;  it  speaks  of  Ichijo's 
work  as  beautiful  enough  to  "  move  the  gods  to 
tears ;  "  it  declares  that  the  specimens  just  completed 
at  the  writer's  request  shall  be  treasured  by  him  and 
his  heirs  so  long  as  the  house  of  Okubo  lasts.  The 
incentives  that  talent  found  in  those  days  can  thus  be 
appreciated.  Ichijo  certainly  deserved  to  be  famous. 
He  excelled  in  every  kind  of  chiselling,  though  most 
of  his  finest  work  is  in  relief;  he  knew  how  to  pro- 

300 


S  WO  R  D-F  U  R  N  ITU  RE 

duce  admirable  decorative  effects  by  combining  metals 
of  various  colours ;  his  range  of  motives  was  almost 
limitless,  and  the  poetic  feeling  of  some  of  his  de- 
signs gives  them  a  charm  quite  independent  of  their 
grand  technique. 

The  difficulty  experienced  in  attempting  to  set 
down  any  record  of  the  metal-workers  in  the  nine- 
teenth century  is  that  quite  an  embarrassing  number 
of  artists  reached  a  standard  entitling  them  to  notice. 
The  greatest  do  not  stand  as  far  above  the  general 
level  as  did  the  masters  of  preceding  epochs,  but,  on 
the  other  hand,  the  general  level  in  the  nineteenth 
century  was  higher  than  it  had  ever  been  before. 
It  can  be  said  with  confidence,  however,  that  no 
school  of  experts  contributed  so  much  to  the  treas- 
ures of  the  time  as  did  the  representatives  and  dis- 
ciples of  the  Ishiguro  family.  According  to  strict 
chronological  order,  this  family  should  have  been 
included  in  the  annals  of  the  eighteenth  century,  for 
its  founder,  Masatsune,  who  also  must  be  called  one 
of  its  greatest  representatives,  was  born  in  1757  and 
died  in  1828.  He  is  placed  here,  however,  not  only 
because  much  of  the  finest  work  of  his  mature  years 
was  executed  in  the  nineteenth  century,  but  also 
because  all  his  successors  and  pupils  flourished  during 
the  latter.  The  Ishiguro  family  carried  the  art  to 
an  extreme  standard  of  elaboration.  No  subject  was 
too  intricate  or  too  difficult  for  them,  and  it  is  proba- 
ble that  their  works  figure  largely  in  foreign  collec- 
tions, for  technical  beauty  and  richness  of  general 
effect  are  qualities  which  appeal  at  once  to  the 
average  dilettante.  Masatsune  had  three  art  names  — 
yimiyo,  Togakushi,  and  yikokusai — and  during  his 
youth  he  called  himself  Koretsune.  He  is  thus  often 

301 


JAPAN 

confounded  with  his  second  son,  Koretsune,  —  an 
equally  great  artist,  —  the  confusion  being  augmented 
by  the  fact  that  among  Koretsune's  seven  art  names  — 
Togakuski,  Ritswnei,  Shinryo,  Hogyokusai,  Gishinken, 
Kounken,  and  Ichiyeian  —  the  first  was  identical  with 
one  of  Masatsune's.  No  less  than  forty-two  experts 
belonged  to  the  Ishiguro  group,  and  every  one  of 
them  contributed  some  good  specimens  to  the  treas- 
ures of  the  century.  After  Masatsune  and  Koretsune, 
the  most  renowned  were  Koreshige  (art  name,  Icbio\t 
a  pupil  of  Koretsune ;  Koreo  (art  name,  Hakuunshi), 
also  a  pupil  of  Koretsune ;  Yoshitsune  (art  names, 
Senyusbi,  Gammon,  and  Tominsai),  grandson  of  Masat- 
sune ;  Masayoshi  (art  name,  yikosai),  a  student  of 
Masatsune  ;  Koreyoshi  (art  names,  Jikakushi  and 
Kwansai},  son  of  Masayoshi ;  Yoshisato  (art  name, 
Jitekisai),  a  pupil  of  Masayoshi  who  worked  in  Hizen; 
Haruaki,  who  received  the  highest  art  title  of  Hogen  ; 
Masahiro  (art  names,  Gantoshi,  Keiho,  Kwakujusai,  and 
Korinsha),  a  pupil  of  Masatsune;  Masakiyo  (art  name, 
yikiyokusai] ;  Masaharu  and  Kiyonari  (art  name,  Giyok- 
kosai).  All  of  these,  with  the  one  exception  noted  in 
its  place,  worked  in  Yedo. 

With  the  Ishiguro  experts  must  be  bracketed,  in 
point  of  technical  skill,  the  three  families  of  Omori, 
Hamano,  and  Iwamoto.  The  origin  of  these  has 
already  been  spoken  of,  and  it  will  be  sufficient  to 
note  here  the  celebrities  that  they  severally  contrib- 
uted to  the  nineteenth  century,  namely  :  — 


302 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

THE   OMORI    MASTERS   AND   THEIR   PUPILS   IN  THE 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY 

Hidetomo  ;  art  name,  Riuriusai.     Yedo. 

Hideyoshi ;  art  name,  Ittokusai.     Yedo. 

Hideyori.     Hirado  (Hizen). 

Hidenori.     Hirado. 

Hidetomi.     Sendai. 

Hidelciyo.     Yedo. 

Kazutomo  ;  art  name,  Kenkosai.     Yedo. 

Tomochika;  art  name,  Riunsai.     Yedo. 

Tomotsune.     Yedo. 

Terumoto.     Yedo. 

THE  HAMANO   MASTERS   AND   THEIR   PUPILS   IN  THE 
NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

Shunzui,  or  Haruyori.     Yedo. 
Juzui,  or  Hisayori.     Yedo. 
Shuzui,  or  Hideyori.     Yedo. 
Kiuzui,  or  Hisayori.     Yedo. 

THE   IWAMOTO   MASTERS   AND  THEIR   PUPILS   IN   THE 
NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

Konju.     Yedo. 

Kwanri  (end  of  eighteenth  and  beginning  of  nineteenth  cen- 
tury). Yedo. 

Yeishu,  or  Yasuchika  Shinsuke  (end  of  eighteenth  and  be- 
ginning of  nineteenth  century).  Celebrated  for  Katakiri 
chiselling.  Mito. 

Riyoyei,  or  Suzuki  Kinyemon.  Celebrated  for  carving  fish. 
Yedo. 

Kwanjo. 

Shoho,  or  Buto  Gempachi,  marked  his  works  Konkwan-mon. 
Yedo. 

The    productions    of    the    four     families,    Omori, 
Hamano,  Iwamoto  and  Ishiguro,  stand  to  the  master- 

303 


JAPAN 

pieces  of  the  early  metal-carvers  in  much   the   same 
relation  as  the   genre   pictures   (ukiyo-ye]y  which  had 
their  development  contemporaneously  with  the  work 
of  these  families,  stand  to  the  paintings  of  the  classical 
school.      In  reviewing  Japanese  pictorial   art   it    has 
been  shown  that  the  popular  school  of  painters,  the 
Ukiyo-ye  artists,  were  a  natural  outcome  of  the  social 
evolution   of  their  era,   and   that  they   reflected   the 
nation's  passage  from  the  comparatively  austere  canons 
of  a  military  age   to  the  voluptuous  ease  and   refine- 
ment of  the  later  Tokugawa   epochs.     Similar   evi- 
dence of  the  changes  of  the  times  might  be  expected 
to  present  themselves  in  the  field  of  glyptic  art.     They 
do  present  themselves.     The  formal  designs  and  uni- 
form methods  of  chiselling  ti  jour  practised  up  to  the 
middle  of  the   fifteenth   century   represent   the   pure 
Chinese  style,  or,  at  any  rate,  were  suggested  by  the 
classical  spirit  which  then  permeated  every  branch  of 
the  national  civilisation.     By  and  by,  when  the  im- 
mortal painters  Kano  Masanobu  and  Kano  Motonobu 
raised  their  art  into  a  new  realm  of  national  inspira- 
tion, a  corresponding  impulse  was  felt  in  the  domain 
of   metal    carving,  and    the    Goto    masters,    shaking 
themselves  partially  free  from  classical  fetters,  began 
to  seek  decorative  motives  in  the  pages  of  recent  his- 
tory or  among   the   natural    objects    that   surrounded 
them.     The  work  of  the  early  Goto  experts  cannot, 
however,  be  assigned  purely  to  any  one  academy.      In 
their  representations  of  historical  scenes,  warriors,  and 
animals  they  followed  the  Tosa   school   with   almost 
slavish  accuracy.     In  their  carvings  of  flowers,  birds, 
and  incidents  from  the  daily  life  of  the  people,  they 
took    the    Kano    artists    for    models.     And    in    their 
chiselling  of  dragons,  Dogs  of  Fo,  Kylin,  phoenixes, 

304 


SWORD   GUARDS.     PLATE   I. 

"S 

i.  5 

By  Tsuchlya  Yasuchika.  By  Sugiura  Tal. 

2  & 

By  Jakusal.  By  Kitagawa.  Soden. 

3  7 

By  Nara  Toshihis.  By4lagidanl  Katahet. 

4  8 

By  Hamano  Kozul.  By  Nakal  Tomotsune. 

(See  page  296.) 


SWORD-FURNITURE 

and  supernatural  beings,  they  saw  nothing  higher  than 
Chinese  types.  They  preserved,  indeed,  a  closer 
touch  with  the  Chinese  school  than  with  any  other, 
for  each  scion  of  the  family  and  each  student  in  its 
ateliers  commenced  his  education  by  learning  how  to 
carve  a  dragon,  and  in  every  Japanese  collection  of 
Goto  masterpieces  the  s 'his hi,  the  kirin,  and  the  ho-o 
repeat  themselves  persistently.  But  even  Yujo  him- 
self did  not  recognise  any  limit  to  his  range  of  motives, 
and,  as  has  been  already  seen,  he  and  his  descendants 
must  undoubtedly  be  credited  with  having  opened 
a  new  vista  to  their  art.  The  Nara  school  was  the 
next  link  in  the  chain  of  evolution.  Faithful  to  the 
fashions  of  the  era  in  which  it  had  its  birth,  it  made 
a  still  wider  departure  from  the  classical  style  than  the 
Goto  experts  had  attempted,  and  drew  its  inspiration 
from  the  Kano  and  the  Tosa  schools  only,  combining 
the  strength,  realism,  and  softness  of  the  former  with 
the  decorative  splendour  of  the  latter.  The  Yokoya 
masters  went  a  step  farther.  It  is  true  that  they  may 
be  said  to  have  revived  the  Chinese  spirit,  since  linear 
force,  directness,  and  vitality  became,  in  their  hands, 
paramount  elements  of  glyptic  skill.  But  in  that 
respect  they  stand  to  their  own  branch  of  art  as  the 
Kano  painters  stood  to  theirs ;  if  they  followed  the 
technical  methods  of  the  Chinese  school,  they  derived 
their  motives  chiefly  from  Japanese  life  and  annals. 
Side  by  side  with  the  Yokoya  masters,  and  in  many 
respects  closely  connected  with  them,  the  Yanagawa, 
Kikuoka,  Kikuchi,  Yoshioka,  and  Kikugawa  families 
produced  works  which  correspond  with  the  pictures 
of  the  naturalistic  school  of  Kyoto,  the  Shijo  academy, 
which  had  its  greatest  representative  in  Maruyama 
Okio.  Then  finally  came  the  four  families  forming 

VOL.     VII. 2O 


JAPAN 

the  popular  school,  the  Omori,  the  Hamano,  the 
Iwamoto,  and  the  Ishiguro,  to  whom  Goto  Ichijo  must 
be  added  as  an  unsurpassed  master  of  their  style.  It  is 
difficult  to  convey  in  words  any  general  idea  of  the 
luxury  of  decoration,  delicacy  of  chiselling,  poetry  of 
motive,  and,  withal,  simplicity  of  subject  exhibited  in 
the  masterpieces  of  experts  like  Omori  Teruhide, 
Iwamoto  Konkwan,  Hamano  Noriyuki,  Ishiguro 
Masatsune,  and  many  of  their  disciples  and  followers, 
as  well  as  their  contemporary  artists  of  the  naturalistic 
school.  Perhaps  the  best  plan  is  to  describe  briefly 
a  few  specimens  which  may  be  regarded  as  fairly 
illustrative.  Here,  for  example,  is  a  kozuka  by  Ishi- 
guro Koreyoshi.  The  metal  is  shibuichl  and  the  ends 
are  tipped  with  gold.  It  may  be  noted,  en  passant, 
that  many  of  the  finest  kozuka  produced  in  the  eigh- 
teenth and  nineteenth  centuries  have  their  ends  and 
backs  of  gold,  though  the  face  is  shakudo,  shibuichi, 
or  even  copper.  The  kozuka  in  question  is  made 
throughout  of  shibuichi,  except  the  gold-shod  ends,  but 
the  back  is  richly  inlaid  with  gold  in  the  style  called 
klribaku  (cut  leaf)  ;  that  is  to  say,  tiny  squares  of 
gold  are  scattered  evenly  over  the  whole  field.  On 
the  face  is  chiselled,  in  high  relief,  a  hawk  which  has 
just  lighted  among  the  branches  of  a  blossoming 
plum,  and  in  the  distance  a  sparrow  is  seen  flying 
away.  The  hawk's  grey  plumage  is  excellently  sug- 
gested by  the  patina  of  the  shibuichi,  and  its  feathers 
and  crest  are  etched  with  a  delicate  damascening 
of  gold.  The  plum  blossoms  are  softly  chiselled 
in  silver,  and  the  sparrow's  russet  colour  is  well 
rendered  by  the  copper  in  which  it  is  modelled. 
The  reverse  has  this  couplet  engraved  in  cursive 
script : — 

306 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

"  Gone  the  old  year, 
Gone  to  his  death  ; 
Tears  for  his  tomb. 
Yet  from  his  bier 
Stealeth  spring's  breath 
Of  wafted  plum." l 

Here,  again,  are  two  kozuka  by  Goto  Ichijo.  The 
first  is  of  copper  backed  with  gold.  On  the  face, 
beautifully  modelled  in  medium  relief,  are  two  golden 
mummers  of  the  New  Year,  dancing,  instinct  with 
life,  and  above  their  heads  the  conventional  decora- 
tions of  the  season  hang,  incised.  On  the  back  these 
lines  are  engraved  :  — 

"  Endless  the  ages  shed  on  earth 
Their  gems  of  joy.     Once  more  in  truth 
The  jewel  of  a  year's  new  birth, 
Flashes  the  light  of  laughing  youth 
From  fount  and  well.     Each  quickened  tree 
Gives  pledge  of  leafy  luxury. 
A  myriad  signs  of  gladsome  springs 
And  years  untouched  by  pain  or  ruth 
For  you,  my  prince,  this  sunrise  brings." 

The  second  kozuka  is  of  sbakudo,  wrought  on  both 
faces  with  fine-grained  nanako.  The  design,  chiselled 
in  low  relief  and  painted,  —  no  other  term  applies  to 
the  skill  of  the  manipulation, — painted  with  gold, 
silver,  and  bronze,  is  the  rustic  gate  of  a  country  cot- 
tage, overhung  by  pine-trees,  and  standing  among 
feathery  grasses  of  autumn.  The  tender  restfulness 
of  the  picture  is  delightful.  On  the  back  are  these 
lines :  — 

1  The  plum-blossom  is  the  emblem  of  spring. 
307 


JAPAN 

"  One  are  our  hearts,  my  wife's  and  mine. 
Beyond  the  reach  of  withering  years, 
Beyond  the  sound  of  falling  tears, 
To  skies  spring  sunshine  always  fills 
The  music  of  our  love  notes  thrills, 
Through  the  linked  branches  of  the  pine."  l 

Reference  may  finally  be  made  to  a  kozuka  and  a 
kogai  chiselled  by  Watanabe  Hisamitsu,  a  prominent 
representative  of  the  popular  school.  Here  the  de- 
signs correspond  exactly  with  pictures  by  Kiyonaga  or 
Utamaro.  On  the  copper  face  of  the  kozuka,  chis- 
elled in  relief,  is  the  celebrated  "  lady  of  the  green 
hall,"  Takao.  She  is  magnificently  apparelled,  and 
gold,  sbakudOj  silver,  and  shibuichi  are  used  with  the 
most  refined  skill  to  indicate  the  rich  brocades  and 
crepes  that  she  wears.  On  the  kogai  the  same  cour- 
tesan is  shown  in  gentle  dalliance  with  the  ascetic 
Daruma.  The  backs  of  the  kozuka  and  kogai  alike 
are  of  shibuichiy  carrying  the  following  inscriptions  :  — 

Buddha  sells  doctrine.  The  expounder  sells  Buddha.  The 
priest  sells  the  expounder.  You  sell  your  five  feet  of 
body  to  nurture  the  lusts  of  humanity.  Green  is  the 
willow ;  crimson  the  flower  ;  many-coloured  the  ways  of 
the  world." 

"  A  thousand  nights,  a  thousand  eves, 
The  soft  moon  sails  the  lake  above ; 
No  trace  of  her  caresses  leaves, 
In  the  cold  depths  no  ray  of  love." 

In  this  century  the  Hirata  family  —  spoken  of 
already  as  the  first  to  employ  verifiable  enamels  in 
the  decoration  of  sword-mounts  —  had  its  greatest 
master  in  the  person  of  Harunari.  One  of  his  pupils, 

1  The  pine-tree  is  one  of  the  emblems  of  longevity. 
308 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

Uchino  Harutoshi  (art  name,  Ichigenshi),  was  scarcely 
less  celebrated,  and  four  others  helped,  in  a  lesser 
degree,  to  perpetuate  his  fame.  Later  in  the  century 
Yedo  produced  an  artist  of  the  very  highest  skill, 
Kano  Natsuo.  He  worked  from  1850  to  1895, 
and  certainly  deserves  to  be  called  one  of  the  most 
admirable  chisellers  of  incised  designs  that  Japan 
has  known  in  any  era.  Natsuo  learned  the  art,  from 
Aoka  Harutsura,  of  Kyoto,  himself  a  skilled  ex- 
pert ;  and  Harutsura's  teacher,  Kajutsura,  deserves  to 
be  mentioned  as  an  exceptionally  successful  chiseller 
of  insects.  Natsuo's  early  works  were  chiefly  chiselled 
in  medium  relief.  His  range  of  subjects  was  wide. 
He  could  represent  a  group  of  autumn  flowers,  a  spray 
of  plum,  or  a  tiny  insect  as  skilfully  as  a  mythological 
figure  or  a  historical  scene.  After  fame  and  pros- 
perity had  come  to  him,  he  ceased  to  carve  in  relief, 
and  confined  himself  to  incised  and  kata-kiri  chisel- 
ling, with  results  of  which  it  would  be  difficult  to 
write  in  too  laudatory  a  strain.  He  did  not  easily 
accept  an  order  or  make  any  effort  to  produce  largely. 
Genuine  specimens  of  his  work  are  therefore  rare, 
and  when  one  comes  into  the  market,  it  is  purchased 
by  Japanese  connoisseurs  at  a  great  price.  Contem- 
porary with  Natsuo  in  the  latter's  early  years  was 
Honjo  Yoshitane,  of  Yedo.  He  not  only  chiselled 
the  mounts  of  swords  but  also  forged  their  blades,  and 
he  is  placed  by  his  countrymen  in  the  very  foremost 
rank  of  artists.  Yamagawa  Koji,  of  Kanazawa  (in 
Kaga),  was  another  of  the  most  prominent  figures  in 
the  nineteenth  century.  He  worked  from  1830  to 
1877,  chiefly  in  the  kebori  and  kata-kiri  styles,  and  in 
his  later  years  he  received  the  name  of  "  Kanazawa 
Somin  "  in  recognition  of  his  great  abilities. 

309 


JAPAN 

The  Mito  school  was  very  active  in  the  first  half 
of  the  century.  Several  well-known  experts  were 
connected  with  it  —  as  Kivaizantei  (Motomichi)  and 
his  numerous  pupils  ;  Ontaiken  (Motochska) ;  Cbooken 
(Motonari)  ;  Tosuiken  (Sadahisa),  and  others.  The 
workshops  in  Aizu  also  turned  out  many  specimens, 
but  what  has  already  been  said  of  Mito  and  Aizu 
work  in  earlier  times  applies  to  the  productions  of  the 
nineteenth  century  also  :  it  was  decorative  rather  than 
artistic.  Many  other  names  might  be  set  down  ; 
notably  those  of  Yoshioka  Tadatsugu,  of  Yedo,  whose 
pupils  constituted  a  large  and  brilliant  group  ;  Tanaka 
Kiyohisa,  of  Yedo ;  Okano  Kijiro,  of  Yedo,  widely 
known  under  his  art  name  of  Toriusaj,  whose  repro- 
ductions of  some  of  the  choicest  old  masterpieces  are 
probably  treasured  by  many  Occidental  collectors  as 
originals;  Kawarabayashi  Hidekuni  (i  860),  of  Kyoto  ; 
and  Oda  Noaki  (1830),  of  Satsuma,  a  splendid  chis- 
eller  of  decoration  a  jour.  But  the  task  of  discrimina- 
tion becomes  exceedingly  difficult  in  the  nineteenth 
century,  for  although  the  general  level  of  expert  skill 
was  higher  than  it  had  been  in  any  previous  era,  few 
artists  can  be  said  to  have  attained  conspicuous  pre- 
eminence. An  immense  number  of  fine  specimens 
were  produced  during  the  first  seventy-five  years  of 
the  century,  and  it  is  probable  that  if  a  careful  exam- 
ination were  made  of  the  best  collections  of  Japanese 
sword-mounts  in  Europe  and  America,  a  great  major- 
ity of  the  examples  they  comprise  would  be  found  to 
date  from  the  epoch  1/70  to  1780. 

Special  mention  must  be  made  of  a  group  of  five 
artists  —  Shuraku,  Temmin,  Riumin,  Minjo,  and  Min- 
koku  —  who,  in  1864,  formed  a  guild  (called  go-m'n- 
gumi}  for  the  purpose  of  producing  objects  beyond  the 

310 


S  W  O  R  D-F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

strength  of  other  experts.  Their  style  was  chiefly 
kata-kiriy  and  in  addition  to  sword-furniture  they 
turned  out  a  quantity  of  kana-mono,  that  is  to  say, 
minor  metal  work  of  all  descriptions.  These  men 
were  all  of  the  highest  force. 


311 


Chapter  IX 

SPECIAL    SUBJECrS 

NO  special  reference  has  hitherto  been  made  to 
a  class  of  experts  who  performed  prepara- 
tory work  for  glyptic  artists.  These  were 
called  uchi-mono-shi y  or  hammerers.  Some- 
times their  names  were  cut  upon  a  specimen  side  by 
side  with  those  of  the  chisellers,  but,  as  a  rule,  their 
work,  being  of  a  subordinate  character,  received  no 
such  recognition.  Nevertheless  their  skill  was  often 
remarkable.  Using  the  hammer  only,  some  of  them 
justly  claimed  ability  to  beat  out  an  intricate  shape  as 
truly  and  delicately  as  a  sculptor  could  carve  it  with 
his  chisels.  Ohori  Masatoshi,  an  uchi-mono-shi  of 
Aizu  (D.  1897),  made  a  silver  cake-box  in  the  form 
of  a  sixteen-petalled  chrysanthemum.  The  shapes  of 
the  body  and  of  the  lid  corresponded  so  intimately 
that  whereas  the  lip  could  be  slipped  on  easily  and 
smoothly,  without  any  attempt  to  adjust  its  curves  to 
those  of  the  body,  it  always  fitted  so  closely  that  the 
box  could  be  lifted  by  grasping  the  lid  only.  Another 
feat  of  his  was  to  apply  a  lining  of  silver  to  a  shakudo 
box  by  shaping  and  hammering  only,  the  fit  being  so 
perfect  that  the  lining  clung  like  paper  to  every  part 
of  the  box.  Among  the  uchi-mono-shi  now  living, 
there  is  none  that  Japanese  connoisseurs  recognise 
as  fully  the  peer  of  Masatoshi,  but  it  must  be  con- 
fessed that  the  work  of  such  men  as  Suzuki  Gensuke 
and  Hirata  Soko  does  not  seem  capable  of  being  sur- 

312 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

passed.  Hirata  Soko  recently  exhibited  in  Tokyo  a 
silver  game-cock  with  soft  plumage  and  surface-mod- 
elling of  the  most  delicate  character.  It  had  been 
made  by  means  of  the  hammer  only. 

Suzuki  Gensuke's  name  is  associated  with  a  tour-de- 
force which  not  only  shows  high  skill  but  also  gives 
very  beautiful  results.  It  is  a  process  called  kiri-bame 
(insertion).  The  decorative  design,  having  been  com- 
pletely chiselled  in  the  round,  is  then  fixed  in  a  field  of 
different  metal  in  which  a  design  of  exactly  similar  out- 
line has  been  cut  out  en  bloc.  The  result  is  that  the 
picture  has  no  blank  reverse.  For  example,  on  the  sur- 
face of  a  shibu-ichi  box-lid  are  seen  the  backs  of  a  flock 
of  geese  chiselled  in  silver,  shakudo,  and  gold,  and  when 
the  lid  is  opened,  their  breasts  and  the  under-sides  of 
their  pinions  appear.  The  difficulty  of  such  work 
can  be  easily  appreciated.  It  is  necessary  that  micro- 
scope accuracy  should  be  attained  in  cutting  out  the 
space  for  inserting  the  design,  and  further  that  the 
design  should  be  soldered  firmly  in  its  place,  while 
not  the  slightest  trace  of  the  solder,  or  the  least  sign 
of  junction,  must  be  discernible  between  the  metal  of 
the  inserted  picture  and  that  of  the  field  in  which  it  is 
suspended.  Suzuki  Gensuke  is  not  the  only  expert 
who  works  in  this  style,  but  to  him  it  owes  its 
origin. 

In  order  to  avoid  confusion  of  nomenclature  it  will 
be  well  to  refer  here  to  another  kind  of  work 
called  kiri-kame-zogan  (inserted  inlaying).  Of  this 
the  originator  was  Toyoda  Koko.  The  gist  of  the 
process  is  that  a  design  chiselled  a  jour  has  its  outlines 
veneered  with  some  other  metal  which  serves  to 
emphasise  them.  Thus,  having  pierced  a  spray  of 
flowers  in  a  thin  sheet  of  shibuichi,  the  artist  fits  a 


JAPAN 

slender  rim  of  gold,  silver,  or  shakudo  into  the  petals, 
leaves,  and  stalks.  The  rim  has  to  be  fitted  exactly  so 
that  it  shall  seem  to  be  a  natural  growth,  not  an 
artificial  addition.  The  effect  produced  is  that  of 
transparent  blossoms  tipped  with  gold,  silver,  or  dark- 
purple  shakudo.  Another  achievement  of  Suzuki 
Gensuke  is  designated  maze-gane,  or  "  mixed  metals." 
It  is  a  singular  conception,  and  the  results  obtained 
depend  largely  on  chance.  Shibuichi  and  shakudo  are 
melted  separately,  and  when  they  have  cooled  just 
enough  not  to  mingle  too  intimately,  they  are  cast 
into  a  bar  (called  namako]  which  is  subsequently 
beaten  flat.  The  plate  thus  obtained  shows  acci- 
dental effects  of  clouding,  or  massing  of  dark  tones,  and 
these  patches  are  taken  as  the  basis  of  a  pictorial 
design  to  which  final  character  is  given  by  inlaying 
with  gold  and  silver.  Such  pictures  partake  largely 
of  an  impressionist  character,  but  they  attain  much 
beauty  in  the  hands  of  the  Japanese  artist  with  his 
large  repertoire  of  suggestive  symbols. 

Yet  another  device  practised  by  Suzuki  Gensuke  is 
to  mix  two  kinds  of  shibuichi,  and  having  beaten  them 
together,  to  add  a  third  variety,  after  which  the 
picture  is  completed  by  putting  in  rocks,  trees,  birds, 
etc.,  by  the  kata-kiri  process.  This  method  did  not 
originate  with  Suzuki.  It  was  employed  by  eigh- 
teenth-century experts,  who  gave  to  it  the  name  of 
shibuicht-doshi.  But  Suzuki  has  carried  it  to  a  point 
of  unprecedented  excellence.  The  charm  of  the 
shibuichi-doshi  and  of  the  maze-gane  processes  is  that 
certain  parts  of  the  decorative  design  seem  to  float, 
not  on  the  surface  of  the  metal,  but  actually  within  it, 
an  admirable  effect  of  depth  and  atmosphere  being 
thus  produced. 

3'4 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

In  describing  the  various  processes  of  decorative 
metal-work  for  sword  furniture,  reference  was  made 
to  sumi-zogan  —  or  so-called  "  sepia-inlaying  "  — 
which  differs  from  ordinary  inlaying  in  the  fact  that 
the  decorative  design,  instead  of  being  produced 
chiefly  by  means  of  gold  or  silver  outlines,  is  first 
chiselled  in  complete  form  and  afterwards  bedded  in 
the  basic  metal,  its  surface  being  finally  ground  down 
and  polished,  so  as  to  produce  not  only  perfect  in- 
timacy between  the  metals,  but  also  an  effect  of  high 
lights.  The  Japanese  understood  the  value  of  lights 
in  sculpture  of  all  kinds.  Even  in  deeply  incised 
work  like  kata-kiri,  one  of  their  methods  was  to  use 
a  specially  sharp  chisel  in  certain  parts  of  the  design 
so  as  to  convey  the  effect  of  polishing.  The  "  sepia- 
inlaying  "  is  a  marked  example  of  this  theory,  a 
peculiar  glossiness  being  obtained  by  the  high  light 
of  the  polished  surface,  just  as  the  ancient  Greeks  and 
Romans  used  to  give  to  the  nude  parts  of  a  statue  a 
considerable  degree  of  polish.  The  most  remark- 
able development  of  the  process  is  seen  in  the  togi- 
dashi-zogan  (ground-out  inlaying)  invented  by  Kajima 
Ippu.  In  this  exquisite  and  ingenious  kind  of  work, 
the  design  appears  to  be  growing  up  from  the 
depths  of  the  metal,  and  effects  are  produced  which 
render  it  scarcely  possible  to  believe  that  the  picture 
has  not  been  painted  with  the  brush  on  some  pe- 
culiarly receptive  surface.  As  to  the  technique  of 
togi-dashi-zogan,  the  metal  —  generally  shibuichl  — 
is  first  treated  as  though  for  nunome  damascening,  the 
principal  and  secondary  designs  being  carefully  out- 
lined. It  is  then  passed  through  the  furnace  until  it 
assumes  a  coppery  hue,  after  which  the  design  is 
overlaid  with  a  thin  film  of  ao-gin  (specially  prepared 


JAPAN 

gold),  which  bites  into  the  nunome,  and  then  with  a 
wafer-like  layer  of  silver.  Next  another  equally 
slight  coat  of  silver  is  beaten  over  the  whole  surface, 
the  result  being  that  the  design  shows  out  with  a  faint 
golden  hue  in  a  silver  field,  the  detail,  however,  not 
being  discernible,  and  the  picture  looking  as  though 
the  artist  had  roughly  dashed  in  a  rudimentary  design 
with  light-gold  pigment.  The  next  step  is  to  ham- 
mer or  punch  the  details  of  the  design  so  as  to  em- 
phasise them,  and  finally  the-  expert  proceeds  to 
polish  the  surface  with  strips  of  toishi  (honing  stone) 
bound  together  into  a  brush.  The  use  of  this  pe- 
culiar instrument  is  tedious  and  demands  delicate 
manipulation.  Thus  the  various  layers  of  metal  are 
gradually  ground  down  until  the  design  emerges 
showing  tints  of  all  the  metals  employed  —  shibuichi, 
gold  and  silver.  The  shibuichi  outlines  assume  the 
appearance  of  sepia  drawing,  and  the  general  effect 
is  that  of  a  sepia  picture  in  a  silver  field  with  a  flush 
of  gold  looking  out  here  and  there.  An  impression 
of  atmosphere  and  of  water  is  obtained  by  this  pro- 
cess with  remarkable  realism.  Fishes  appear  to  be 
swimming  in  silver  water,  some  in  the  foreground, 
some  in  the  background,  and  some  in  the  middle- 
distance,  and  so  perfect  is  the  illusion  that  the  body 
of  a  fish  is  sometimes  seen  partially  emerging,  par- 
tially disappearing,  in  the  silvery  fluid ;  flowers  and 
sprays  appear  glowing  in  sunlight ;  birds  beat  the 
air  with  their  wings,  and  landscapes  lie  bathed  in  soft 
hazes.  The  process  not  only  entails  great  labour,  but 
also  demands  an  exercise  of  skill  which  does  not  ap- 
pear to  be  within  reach  of  any  of  the  artists  of  the 
present  day  except  Kajima  Ippu. 

Any  account  of  metal-work  in  Japan  must  include 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

the  uses  to  which  pewter  was  put.  Japanese  pewter 
resembled  that  of  England,  being  composed  of  eighty 
parts  of  tin  to  twenty  of  lead,  without  any  antimony, 
zinc,  nickel,  arsenic,  or  cobalt.  In  China  this  alloy 
seems  to  have  been  employed  from  time  immemorial, 
and  although  the  first  authentic  reference  to  pewter 
in  Japan  does  not  take  the  student  back  farther  than 
the  second  half  of  the  eighth  century  A.  D.,  the  fact 
then  recorded  is  not  the  introduction  of  the  metal, 
but  the  substitution  of  Japanese  tin  for  Chinese  in 
its  composition.  The  earliest  purposes  to  which  it 
was  applied  were  to  inlay  lacquer  in  combination 
with  mother-of-pearl  and  to  make  rims  for  lacquer 
boxes.  By  and  by  it  began  to  be  employed  for  mak- 
ing vessels  —  especially  those  used  at  marriage  cere- 
monies—  and  it  was  then  sometimes  inlaid  with 
gold,  silver,  brass,  or  even  bronze.  Many  pewter  tea- 
canisters  are  found,  as  well  as  vase-shaped  wine  bottles 
for  placing  before  Shinto  shrines.  These  tea-jars  were 
frequently  of  very  beautiful  form  and  had  cleverly 
executed  decorative  designs  incised  or  pierced.  The 
most  interesting  feature,  however,  of  Japanese  pewter 
is  its  patina.  It  has  been  shown  that  "  when  an  alloy 
is  in  the  act  of  cooling,  several  definite  alloys,  in 
which  the  molecules  of  the  metal  are  differently 
grouped  from  those  of  the  mass,  fall  out  at  definite 
temperature,  so  that  the  solidified  metal  does  not  con- 
sist really  of  one  alloy,  but  is  a  mixture  of  several, 
more  or  less  regularly  diffused  throughout  its  mass." 
This  property  is  especially  marked  in  the  case  of 
pewter.  The  Japanese  had  no  thermo-electric  pyro- 
meter to  enable  them  to  discover  it,  but  they  detected 
it  by  observation  sufficiently  to  take  practical  advan- 
tage of  it.  Thus  their  pewter  jars  have  a  very  fine 


JAPAN 

surface  consisting  of  dark  grey  patina  over  which 
darker  patches  are  scattered,  forming  a  clouded 
pattern.  Some  of  these  utensils  are  very  valuable, 
more  so  even  than  the  same  weight  of  silver,  espe- 
cially when  the  mottlingis  uniform  and  well  developed. 
The  vessel  is  never  polished,  but  only  rubbed  from 
time  to  time  with  cotton  or  silk  cloth,  the  result 
being  that  the  surface  gradually  becomes  coated  with 
a  fine  grey  patina  of  two  tints,  the  lighter  forming 
the  ground.  The  action  of  the  air  and  the  gentle 
rubbing  make  visible  one  or  more  of  the  alloys  which 
have  fallen  out  in  cooling.1 

Reference  must  also  be  made  to  a  recently  intro- 
duced alloy  consisting  of  eighty-five  parts  of  lead  and 
fifteen  of  antimony.  The  compound  is  largely  used 
to  manufacture  cheap  and  gaudy  utensils,  such  as 
flower-vases,  cigar-trays,  tobacco-ash-holders,  etc., 
which  are  loaded  with  decorative  designs  in  the  re- 
pousse style,  gilded  in  parts  or  otherwise  coloured. 
This  "  antimony  ware  "  is  cast  in  brass  moulds.  Its 
effect  is  not  unpleasing,  but  it  can  scarcely  be  classed 
among  art-products.  The  inventor  (1885)  was  Su- 
zuki Kichigoro. 

The  Japanese  artist,  or  artisan,  may  be  generally 
described  as  modest,  unassuming,  and  unavaricious. 
The  gain  that  his  works  bring  is  the  last  thing  he  con- 
siders. Affluence  comes  to  him  rarely,  but  to  gird  at 
the  companionship  of  poverty  would  be  to  proclaim 
himself  not  an  artist  but  a  tradesman.2  The  records 
of  all  these  men  and  the  traditions  relating  to  them 
indicate  the  prevalence  of  a  rooted  belief  that  to  be 
great  in  art  a  lofty  and  benevolent  disposition  is 
essential.  Kaigyokusai's  habit  of  giving  away  all  his 

1  See  Appendix,  note  48.  2  See  Appendix,  note  49. 

318 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

money  in  charity  was  regarded  as  an  indication  of 
his  artistic  sense,  and  it  is  confidently  believed  that 
Yasumoto  Kamekichi's  carving  is  inferior  to  that  of 
Matsumoto  Kisaburo  because  the  latter  was  profusely 
generous  whereas  the  former  has  none  of  the  milk  of 
human  kindness.  The  Japanese  artist  is  content  to 
work  amid  the  humblest  surroundings  and  to  live  in 
the  most  frugal  manner.  He  attaches  no  special 
value  to  the  products  of  his  skill,  regarding  them 
merely  as  studies  preparatory  to  better  efforts.  Many 
art-artisans  rose  to  fame  from  the  lowliest  positions. 
Teijo  was  originally  a  barber ;  Kuribara  Keishi  kept 
a  bean-curd  booth ;  Okazaki  Sessei  served  as  a  com- 
mon menial  in  his  youth.  Innumerable  instances  of 
that  kind  might  be  quoted,  but  there  is  not  any  exam- 
ple of  an  artist  who  was  ashamed  of  his  insignificant 
beginnings.  Shame  seems  to  have  been  confined  to 
association  with  inferior  work.  Hojutsu,  the  cele- 
brated ivory-carver,  destroyed  many  works  on  the  eve 
of  completion,  and  it  was  Zengoro  Hozen's  habit  to 
bake  three  examples  of  every  fine  piece  of  pottery  or 
porcelain,  keeping  only  the  best  of  the  three  and 
breaking  the  other  two. 

With  regard  to  the  training  of  the  art-artisan,  it 
was  generally  obtained  by  apprenticeship  in  the  atelier 
of  some  master.  Naturally  there  were  cases  of  men 
who  began  to  work  without  any  instruction.  Matsu- 
moto Kisaburo  commenced  his  career  by  making  a 
statue  of  an  idiot  woman  whom  he  saw  begging  in 
the  streets  of  Kumamoto ;  Ikko  was  counted  an  im- 
becile up  to  the  age  of  nineteen,  but  subsequently 
became  a  famous  carver  without  studying  under  any 
master;  Ogino  Shomin,  Tomochika,  Hojutsu,  all 
were  denied  the  advantage  of  a  teacher,  and  Itao 


JAPAN 

Shinjiro  had  not  received  any  training  when  he  exe- 
cuted his  first  work,  a  model  of  a  foreign  steamer 
which  he  saw  coming  into  port.  The  general  rule, 
however,  was  a  long  apprenticeship.  The  sculptor 
of  wood  commenced  his  course  in  the  atelier  by  chis- 
elling a  decorative  pattern  of  formal  type,  in  order 
that  he  might  acquire  skill  in  spacing.  He  then 
passed  to  the  carving  of  floral  scrolls,  especially  the 
leaves  of  the  asa  (hemp-plant).  The  next  stage  was 
to  shape  a  Daikoku  deity  of  affluence  and  then  an 
Tebisu  (deity  of  fortune).  These  figures  were  in  the 
form  known  as  deki-ai-butsu  (ready-made  Buddha) : 
the  hands  and  arms  were  not  shown  and  the  drapery 
was  roughly  blocked  out.  Thereafter  the  student  passed 
to  the  chiu-butsu  (middle-class  Buddha),  showing  the 
hands  and  arms ;  and  finally  he  arrived  at  the  jobutsu 
(first-class  Buddha),  complete  in  every  detail.  This 
course  occupied  from  seven  to  ten  years,  and  the 
student  was  now  regarded  as  tcbinm-maye,  or  an  adult 
artisan.  Under  no  circumstances  was  he  allowed  to 
use  rule  or  compass :  everything  had  to  be  done  by 
eye.  The  modeller  in  wax  for  purposes  of  bronze- 
casting,  equally  with  the  sculptor  of  metal  or  wood, 
had  no  guide  except  a  sketch  drawn  by  himself  or 
furnished  by  some  pictorial  artist.  There  was  no 
question  of  pins  to  map  out  the  surface,  or  of  a 
pointer  to  transfer  contours.  Further,  it  was  always  a 
supreme  test  of  the  artist's  skill  that  he  should  be  able 
to  achieve  the  desired  result  with  a  minimum  of  labour. 
Thus  the  ivory-carver  Tomochika  received  applause 
for  his  ability  to  block  out  a  statue  by  means  of  a  hatchet 
only,1  finishing  it  off  with  the  knife  (pgatana) ;  whereas 
lesser  experts  used  the  kogatana  from  the  first. 

1  See  Appendix,  note  50. 

320 


SWORD    GUARDS.     PLATE   TT. 

1  4 

By  Nara  Toshihisa.  By  Nara  Toshihisa. 

2  5 

By  Umetada  Shlgeyoshl.  By  Nara  Toshlharu. 

3  6 

By  Yanagawa  Naomasa  By  Miyochin  Muneakira. 

V 

7 
By  Yokaya  Somin 

(See  page  296.) 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

In  a  great  majority  of  cases  the  Japanese  art-artisan 
deemed  it  essential  that  he  should  go  through  a 
course  of  pictorial  training  in  the  studio  of  some 
famous  artist  ;  that  he  should  study  the  composition 
of  poems,  and  that  he  should  be  versed  in  the  cult  of 
the  tea-clubs  as  well  as  in  the  science  of  flower- 
arranging  and  incense-judging.  The  possession  of 
these  accomplishments  did  not,  however,  interfere 
with  his  discharge  of  the  rougher  duties  of  his  craft. 
It  will  often  be  found  that  a  man  working  daily  as  a 
common  carpenter  or  joiner  can  not  only  design  and 
execute,  but  also  sketch  with  accuracy  and  grace,  an 
elaborate  decorative  composition. 

As  to  the  source  from  which  the  Japanese  sculptor 
obtained  designs,  it  is  probably  correct  to  say  that,  as 
a  general  rule,  he  relied  on  the  pictorial  artist.  This 
statement  does  not  apply,  of  course,  to  all  the  great 
masters  of  early,  mediaeval  or  modern  times.  It  is 
recorded  that  Takahashi  Kinai  fell  into  disgrace 
because  he  sold  a  hen  supplied  as  a  model  by  the 
feudal  chief  of  Echizen  ;  that  the  same  artist  refused 
to  chisel  a  centipede  on  a  sword-guard  because  he  had 
already  committed  the  sin  of  killing  dozens  of  these 
insects  for  the  purposes  of  a  previous  carving  ;  that 
Kogitsune  sat  for  ten  days  and  nights  in  the  open  air 
at  Mukuni  in  order  to  see  a  dragon  in  a  whirlwind  ; 
that  Natsuo  placed  a  peony  in  his  garden  as  a  study 
but  found  no  inclination  to  chisel  a  copy  of  the 
flower  until  he  chanced  to  see  it,  one  day,  tossed  by 
the  wind.  These  and  many  other  instances  showed 
that  renowned  experts  often  went  direct  to  nature  for 
models.  On  the  other  hand  it  is  recorded  with  at 
least  equal  frequency  that  recourse  was  had  to  con- 
temporary painters  even  by  the  greatest  masters,  and 


VOL.    VII.  -  21 


JAPAN 

the  conclusion  is  that  the  average  sculptor,  especially 
in  the  eighteenth  and  nineteenth  centuries,  seldom 
looked  beyond  the  pages  of  some  album  of  designs 
drawn  by  pictorial  celebrities. 

It  is  the  more  necessary  to  insist  upon  the  high 
moral  character  of  the  Japanese  artist  or  art-artisan 
because  Americans  and  Europeans  seldom  have  an 
opportunity  of  judging  him  by  direct  intercourse. 
There  is  always  a  middle-man  whose  cupidity  reacts 
upon  the  artist's  reputation.  Nor  can  it  be  denied 
that  his  relations  with  the  modern  middle-man  as 
well  as  the  greatly  changed  nature  of  the  clients 
whose  tastes  he  has  to  consult  have  more  or  less  im- 
paired the  art-artisan's  morals.  In  former  times,  the 
sculptor  of  sword-furniture,  for  example,  had  direct 
contact  with  the  great  nobles,  statesmen,  and  soldiers 
of  his  time.  He  received  art-titles  venerated  since 
the  earliest  epochs  ;  he  was  munificently  rewarded 
by  official  recognition  if  he  made  any  signal  success  ; 
his  fame  was  not  merely  his  own  but  belonged  also 
to  the  fief  claiming  his  allegiance ;  a  liberal  pension 
placed  him  beyond  the  chill  of  poverty  and  enabled 
him  to  devote  the  labour  of  love  to  his  work.  All 
these  conditions  underwent  a  radical  alteration  after 
the  fall  of  feudalism.  The  numerous  principalities 
which  had  supported  their  own  artists  and  vied  with 
one  another  to  attract  and  retain  the  best  skill  in  each 
era,  ceased  to  exist.  The  patrician  class,  munificent 
and  appreciative  patrons  of  art  in  all  ages,  stepped 
down  from  their  commanding  positions  to  make  way 
for  the  merchant  and  the  manufacturer.  The  repre- 
sentatives of  the  feudal  nobility  ceased  to  maintain 
throughout  the  empire  splendid  dwellings  —  palaces 
they  might  be  called  — for  whose  interior  adornment 

322 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

the  services  of  the  artists  had  always  been  in  keen 
request.  The  sword  and  all  its  trappings,  the  suit  of 
armour  and  its  elaborate  decoration,  which  during 
long  centuries  had  offered  an  unlimited  field  for  the 
exercise  of  glyptic  skill,  were  discarded  permanently. 
The  temple  and  the  mausoleum  no  longer  demanded 
the  services  of  sculptors,  metal-workers,  lacquerers, 
architects,  and  painters.  To  keep  in  even  partial 
repair  a  few  of  these  magnificent  structures  seemed  to 
overtax  the  liberality  of  a  generation  whose  fore- 
fathers had  bequeathed  to  them  such  noble  monu- 
ments of  art  and  refinement.  Virtually  the  only 
clients  that  offered  themselves  under  the  new  regimen 
were  foreigners,  to  whom  Japanese  art  was  an  un- 
known land ;  whose  standards  of  excellence  were 
greatly  at  variance  with  Japanese  standards ;  who  in 
most  cases  approached  every  Oriental  production  with 
a  strong  pre-disposition  to  hold  it  in  light  esteem, 
and  to  insist  that  wherever  its  features  differed  from 
their  own  tastes,  the  fault  lay  with  the  features,  and 
who  generally  regarded  the  whole  question  from  a 
mercantile  point  of  view,  preferring  to  dispense  with 
really  fine  artistic  qualities  rather  than  to  obtain  them 
at  the  risk  of  trafficking  in  costly  articles.  It  will  be 
understood  that  these  remarks  apply  mainly  to 
foreign  communities  who  settle  in  Japan  for  com- 
mercial purposes,  and  only  in  a  limited  degree  to 
connoisseurs  in  Europe  and  America.  The  former 
certainly  helped  to  find  a  market  for  a  certain  class 
of  Japanese  art-products  in  the  years  immediately 
subsequent  to  the  fall  of  the  old  system.  But  for 
a  long  time  it  was  a  market  which  exercised  a  most 
vitiating  influence  on  those  that  catered  for  it.  The 
foreign  exporter  worked  through  the  Japanese  middle- 


JAPAN 

man,  and  by  the  latter,  generally  an  ill-educated, 
vulgar  person,  artists  and  art-artisans  were  taught  to 
interpret  in  undeservedly  low  terms  the  requirements 
of  the  foreign  trader  and,  vicariously,  the  tendencies 
of  foreign  taste.  They  were  taught  something  else 
also.  It  became  their  business  to  devote  the  resources 
of  their  skill  not  merely  to  imitating,  but  also  to 
forging,  the  works  of  the  old  masters.  Imitation  is 
fair  enough  so  long  as  it  is  frank  ;  but  when  its  pur- 
pose is  to  pass  off  a  counterfeit  for  a  genuine  object, 
the  artist  himself  suffers  more  than  the  purchaser. 
The  latter  acquires  at  any  rate  a  specimen  of  fine 
workmanship,  but  the  former  learns  to  think  that 
successful  simulation  is  the  highest  aim  of  his  art,  that 
it  is  hopeless  to  win  fame  by  his  own  unequivocal 
efforts,  and  that,  even  though  conscious  of  being  able 
to  surpass  the  masters  whose  productions  he  is  required 
to  imitate,  he  must  subserve  his  talents  to  the  demands 
of  an  avaricious  middle-man  and  an  undiscerning  pub- 
lic. The  science  of  forgery  in  Japan  was  not  invented 
in  modern  times.  The  reader  has  seen  that  among 
the  noted  experts  of  former  eras,  some  are  remem- 
bered for  their  skill  in  re-producing  old  masterpieces. 
Craft  of  that  kind  will  always  be  practised  so  long  as 
humanity  is  human.  But  in  no  pre-Meyi  period  did 
there  exist  an  organised  conspiracy  to  deceive  the 
public ;  its  discovery  would  have  been  inevitable. 
The  element  needed  to  make  such  a  thing  possible 
was  a  foreign  market.  The  foreign  buyer  is  an  ideal 
victim.  He  has  no  direct  access  to  the  artist  and 
cannot  form  any  accurate  conception  of  the  latter's 
capacities  or  make  any  scrutiny  into  the  methods  he 
is  pursuing.  The  statements  of  the  middle-man  are 
his  gospel  —  statements  transmitted  through  an  inter- 

324 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

preter  who  himself  takes  an  interested  hand  in  the 
game.  Add  to  this  that  the  average  foreign  tourist 
carries  with  him  to  Japan,  and  the  average  foreign 
resident  retains  throughout  his  sojourn  there,  a  secret 
conviction  that  art-treasures  are  lying  around  waiting 
to  be  picked  up  by  any  really  astute  gleaner,  and  that 
the  gathering  must  be  done  privately  lest  others  enter 
the  field.  The  situation  is  perfectly  gauged  and  adroitly 
exploited  by  the  Japanese  middle-man.  He  knows 
well  that  the  pride  of  acquisition  influences  many 
collectors  more  than  the  merit  of  a  specimen,  and 
that  nine  bric-a-brac  hunters  out  of  every  ten  are  ready 
to  be  persuaded  that  fortune  treats  them  with  special 
favour,  and  that  for  them  alone  gems  of  applied  art 
have  been  waiting  swathed  in  brocade  and  laid  by  in 
the  recesses  of  a  dealer's  strong  room.  Some  of  the 
best  experts  are  in  the  exclusive  employment  of 
a  middle-man.  They  obey  their  employer  reluctantly 
but  faithfully,  and  at  his  request  devote  their  abilities 
to  forging  "  old  masterpieces "  with  which  he  de- 
lights credulous  collectors.  It  does  not  follow  that 
the  collector  is  seriously  victimised.  The  specimens 
he  acquires  are  almost  if  not  quite  as  good  from  an 
artistic  or  a  technical  point  of  view  as  the  originals 
they  simulate,  and  though  more  costly  than  frankly 
modern  objects,  they  are  cheaper  than  genuine  old 
ones.  The  artist  is  the  chief  sufferer,  since  he  is 
obliged  to  efface  himself  for  the  sake  of  a  fraud,  and 
the  art  since  its  progress  is  checked  for  the  sake  of 
dishonest  gain.  Fortunately  this  evil  state  of  affairs 
is  disappearing.  A  new  class  of  middle-men  have 
appeared  who  eschew  deception  and  rely  upon  clients 
that  patronise  good  work  without  regard  to  its 
antiquity. 


JAPAN 

There  are  objects  generally  excluded  by  their  na- 
ture from  the  catalogue  of  art  productions,  but  never- 
theless often  showing  in  Japan  many  fine  features  of 
decorative  sculpture.  These  are  nail-hiders1  (kagi- 
kakushi^  screen-mounts,  door-pulls,  drawer-handles, 
and  wardrobe  hinges.  When  the  Taiko  built  the 
Palace  of  Pleasure  at  Fushimi  and  the  Castle  of 
Osaka,  the  celebrated  dilettante  Kobori  Masakazu 
undertook  to  make  designs  for  these  objects,  and 
Kacho,  an  expert  worker  in  metals,  reproduced  the 
drawings  in  silver,  gold,  bronze,  iron,  shakudo  and 
shibuichi.  Considering  the  great  skill  that  had  al- 
ready been  attained  by  sculptors  of  sword-furniture, 
it  is  not  wonderful  that  a  metal-worker  at  the  close 
of  the  sixteenth  century  should  have  been  able  to 
chisel  nail-hiders  in  the  form  of  daffodils  with  leaves 
of  silver  and  blossoms  of  gold,  or  door-pulls  in  the 
shape  of  Crustacea,  cherry-petals,  junk-rudders,  and 
such  things.  But  Kacho's  productions,  judged  by 
specimens  preserved  in  the  Kyoto  Detached  Palace, 
were  of  a  type  that  has  seldom  been  surpassed  by  any 
of  the  innumerable  sculptors  subsequently  employed 
in  the  decoration  of  Japanese  interiors.  He  was  fol- 
lowed by  a  long  line  of  skilled  metal-workers  down 
to  the  present  day,  but  their  productions  do  not  lend 
themselves  to  any  special  analysis.  Kacho  is  the  first 
artist  whose  name  has  been  transmitted  to  posterity 
in  connection  with  work  of  this  class,  but  there  are 
relics  which  show  that  the  skill  of  the  metal-chiseller 
was  employed  for  the  architectural  decoration  of 
interiors  as  early  as  the  beginning  of  the  twelfth 
century.  Notable  examples  are  the  gilt-bronze  or- 
naments of  the  ventilating  panels  at  the  temple 

1  See  Appendix,  note  51. 

326 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

Chiuson-ji  (founded  in  1109).  In  the  centre  are 
plaques  with  repousse  designs  of  phoenixes  and  angels, 
and  the  borders  have  floral  diapers,  vajras,  and  bells 
sculptured  a  jour.  From  such  work  to  the  use  of 
wood-carving  for  interior  decoration,  as  seen  in 
temples  and  mausolea  from  the  close  of  the  six- 
teenth century,  the  transition  is  easily  conceived. 


ENAMEL   DECORATION 

The  term  "  enamel  decoration "  is  here  used  to 
indicate  a  design  expressed  by  means  of  vitrified 
pastes  of  various  colours  applied  to  a  base  usually  of 
metal  but  sometimes  of  wood  or  porcelain.  Oxide 
of  lead  and  silica,  mixed  in  the  ratio  of  35  to  50,  ap- 
proximately, with  small  quantities  of  lime  and  soda 
and  a  very  small  admixture  of  magnesia,  form  the 
paste,  and  colour  is  obtained  by  adding  oxide  of 
copper,  iron,  cobalt,  gold,  tin,  silver,  antimony,  or 
some  other  substance.  The  paste  thus  produced  is 
of  two  kinds,  translucid  or  opaque,  and  is  applied  to 
the  base  in  one  of  two  ways,  namely,  by  channelling 
the  parts  of  the  design  into  which  the  paste  is  to  be 
inserted,  or  by  framing  them  with  thin  ribbons  of 
metal.  The  former  kind  —  /".  e.  where  the  spaces  to 
receive  the  enamel  paste  are  recessed  —  is  called  cham- 
pleve ;  the  latter  is  known  as  cloisonne.  For  these 
terms  the  best  English  equivalents  are,  perhaps,  "  en- 
causted "  and  "  applied,"  respectively,  but  since  the 
French  words  are  much  more  explicit  and  expressive, 
they  will  be  used  here.  Doubtless  the  champleve  pro- 
cess preceded  the  cloisonne,  but  in  Japan,  as  in 
Europe,  there  is  no  certainty  on  that  point, 

327  ' 


JAPAN 

Neither  is  it  possible  to  determine  with  any  accu- 
racy the  time  when  the  art  of  enamel  decoration 
began  to  be  practised  in  Japan.  Among  the  relics 
of  the  Nara  Court  preserved  in  the  Shoso-in  there  is 
a  mirror  having  on  its  back  a  floral  design  executed 
in  cloisonne  enamel.  The  inclusion  of  this  mirror  in 
the  Sh'bso-in  treasures  shows  that  it  dates  from  a 
period  certainly  not  later  than  the  eighth  century, 
but  connoisseurs  are  not  agreed  in  regarding  it  as 
Japanese  workmanship.  The  cloisons,  or  metal  rib- 
bons framing  the  limbs  of  the  designs,  are  of  gold; 
the  colours  of  the  enamels  are  blue,  yellow,  green, 
and  brown,  and  the  edges  of  the  cloisons  project 
above  the  paste,  indicating  that  the  surface  of  the 
work  was  not  ground  down,  or  polished,  after  firing. 

A  few  words  have  to  be  inserted  here  about  the 
technique  of  enamel  decoration.  The  object  to  be 
decorated  having  been  fashioned  in  thin  copper  — 
sometimes  in  gold  or  silver  —  is  handed  to  the 
enameller,  or  to  a  draughtsman,  who  traces  on  it 
with  Indian-ink  a  facsimile  of  the  design  to  be  exe- 
cuted. The  next  step  is  to  make  the  cloisons  and 
fix  them  in  position.  This  is  one  of  the  most  deli- 
cate parts  of  the  work.  A  narrow  ribbon  of  copper 
or  gold  is  cut  into  sections  of  various  lengths,  and 
these  having  been  curved  into  the  required  form,  are 
soldered  to  the  surface  of  the  object  so  that  the  de- 
sign is  ultimately  outlined  by  a  thin  wall,  following 
every  line  exactly  and  enclosing  the  space  to  be  deco- 
rated. The  various  enamel  pastes  are  then  packed 
into  the  parts  within  this  wall,  and  the  vessel,  having 
been  placed  in  the  oven,  is  subjected  to  heat  sufficient 
to  vitrify  the  pastes  without  affecting  the  metals  form- 
ing the  base  and  the  cloisons.  It  will  of  course  be 

328 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

understood  that  when  the  base  is  of  wood,  the  enamel 
design,  separately  manufactured,  is  inserted,  when 
complete,  in  the  wood.  The  melting  process  re- 
duces the  volume  of  the  enamel  paste,  so  that,  when 
the  vessel  emerges  from  the  oven  after  the  firing, 
the  spaces  within  the  cloisons  are  found  to  be  only 
partially  filled.  An  additional  quantity  of  paste  has 
to  be  inserted,  and  once  more  the  object  is  placed  in 
the  oven.  This  process  has  sometimes  to  be  repeated 
several  times  before  the  cloisonned  spaces  are  suf- 
ficiently full.  Moreover,  since  all  the  pastes  do  not 
fuse  at  the  same  temperature,  there  is  here  another 
reason  for  independent  firings,  and  risks  are  thus  in- 
troduced which  sometimes  prove  fatal  after  an  object 
has  been  almost  completed.  Finally,  the  vitrified 
pastes  having  completely  filled  the  cloisonned  spaces, 
the  whole  surface  is  ground  and  polished  with  great 
care  until  it  becomes  perfectly  even  and  shows  a  soft 
lustre.  Thus  finished,  the  enamel  is  known  in  Japan  as 
kazari-jippo  (ornamental  enamel).  The  grinding  and 
polishing  process  is  often  dispensed  with,  especially 
when  translucid  pastes  are  employed.  Enamel  deco- 
ration of  the  latter  class  is  called  nagashi-jippo  (poured 
enamel). 

The  term  shippo  (jippo  in  composition)  literally 
signifies  "  seven  precious  things."  It  was  used  origi- 
nally to  designate  gold,  silver,  and  various  jewels 
about  the  names  of  which  there  is  some  uncertainty. 
In  China  the  use  of  jewels  to  decorate  vessels  of 
gold,  silver,  or  bronze  was  practised  at  a  remote  epoch, 
and  to  such  objects  the  designation  shippo  was  applied. 
There  can  be  little  doubt  that  vitrifiable  pastes  were 
soon  employed  as  a  substitute  for  jewels  in  this  kind 
of  decoration,  and  that  champleve  enamelling  thus 

329 


JAPAN 

came  into  vogue,  the  cloisonne  method  being  a  subse- 
quent modification.  Unfortunately  no  distinctive  term 
was  devised  for  the  paste  jewels.  They  also  received 
the  name  shippb,  and  a  source  of  error  was  thus 
introduced,  later  generations  having  no  means  of 
discriminating  whether  a  vessel  described  as  being  of 
shippo  had  decoration  of  the  "  seven  precious  things  " 
or  of  vitrified  enamels. 

The  mirror  referred  to  above  as  forming  part  of 
the  Shoso-in  collection  dating  from  the  eighth  century * 
has  decoration  in  nagashi-jippo,  namely,  the  unpolished 
style,  and  is  of  comparatively  crude  manufacture.  It 
is  the  earliest  known  specimen  of  cloisonne  enamel 
preserved  in  Japan,  but  there  can  be  little  doubt  that 
vitrified  pastes  had  been  previously  employed  in  the 
same  manner.  Among  the  contents  of  the  dolmens, 
which  certainly  do  not  belong  to  a  period  more 
recent  than  the  fourth  or  fifth  century  of  the  Chris- 
tian era,  great  quantities  of  coloured  glass  beads  are 
found,  and  it  is  thus  evident  that  long  before  the 
Shoso-in  collection  was  formed,  the  Japanese  under- 
stood the  manufacture  of  vitrifiable  paste.  But  there 
are  apparently  no  means  of  determining  the  exact  date 
when  champleve  or  cloisonne  enamel  had  its  origin  in 
Japan. 

One  thing,  however,  is  certain  ;  namely,  that  until 
the  nineteenth  century  enamels  were  employed  by 
the  Japanese  decorators  for  accessory  purposes  only. 
No  such  things  were  manufactured  as  vases,  plaques, 
censers,  or  bowls  having  their  surface  covered  with 
enamels  applied  either  in  the  champleve  or  the  cloisonne 
style.  In  other  words,  none  of  the  objects  to  which 
European  and  American  collectors  give  the  term 

1  See  Appendix,  note  52. 

330 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

"  enamels "  was  produced  by  a  Japanese  artist  prior 
to  the  year  1838.  It  is  necessary  to  insist  upon  this 
fact  because  one  of  the  most  notable  exponents  of 
Japanese  art,  the  late  Mr.  J.  L.  Bowes,  who  alone 
has  hitherto  undertaken  to  discuss  Japanese  enamels 
at  any  length,  fell  into  the  serious  error  of  imagining 
that  numerous  enamelled  vessels  which  began  to  be 
exported  to  Europe  from  the  year  1865,  were  the 
outcome  of  industry  commencing  in  the  sixteenth 
century  and  reaching  its  point  of  culmination  at  the 
beginning  of  the  eighteenth.  In  his  work  "  Japan- 
ese Decorative  Art,"  Mr.  Bowes  divided  these  objects 
into  three  classes,  "  early,  middle-period,  and  modern," 
and  he  subsequently  supported  his  views  in  an  elabo- 
rately reasoned  thesis  called  "  Notes  on  Shippo." 
There  is  not  the  slenderest  ground  for  such  a  theory.1 
It  certainly  seems  somewhat  strange  that  whereas 
vases  and  censers  of  cloisonne  enamel  manufactured  in 
China  came  to  Japan  during  the  latter  part  of  the 
Ming  era  and  throughout  the  whole  of  the  Tsing  — 
in  other  words,  from  the  sixteenth  century  to  the 
nineteenth  —  similar  works  were  not  executed  by  the 
Japanese.  The  explanation  is  that  these  specimens 
did  not  appeal  strongly  to  Japanese  taste :  they  never 
won  the  approval  of  the  tea-clubs,  which  was  essen- 
tial to  the  recognition  of  any  object  as  an  art  treasure. 
For  such  purposes  as  the  decoration  of  kugi-kakushi 
(metal  ornaments  used  to  conceal  the  heads  of  nails 
in  the  interiors  of  houses),  beads  (djime^  and  clasps 
(kagami-buta  or  kana-mond)  for  pouches,  recessed  han- 
dles of  sliding-doors,  or  metal  plates  and  caps  on  wood- 
work, vitrifiable  pastes,  whether  translucid  or  opaque, 
seemed  suitable.  The  artists  employed  by  the  Taiko 

1  See  Appendix,  note  53. 

33 i 


JAPAN 

to  decorate  the  interior  of  the  "  Palace  of  Pleasure" 
at  Fushimi,  and  those  engaged  upon  the  mausolea 
of  the  Tokugawa,  used  enamels  very  effectively 
in  subordinate  positions.  It  has  been  suggested  that 
the  work  of  this  kind  was  entrusted  by  the  Taikb 
to  Korean  experts,  and  there  is  no  doubt  that  the 
process  of  cloisonne  enamelling  was  well  understood  by 
the  Koreans  in  the  sixteenth  century,  if  not  earlier. 
They  used  twisted  wire  to  form  the  cloisons,  in  which 
respect  their  technique  ranked  below  that  of  the 
Japanese ;  but  they  obtained  finer  colours,  their  pur- 
ple especially  being  remarkable  for  purity  and  richness. 
Considering  how  large  a  debt  Japanese  applied  art 
owed  to  Korean  assistance  at  the  close  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  and  considering  that,  with  the  exception  of 
the  mirror  of  Shomu,  mentioned  above,  there  is 
scarcely  any  evidence  pointing  to  the  use  of  cloisonne 
enamels  for  decorative  purposes  in  Japan  prior  to  that 
epoch,1  it  would  certainly  be  rash  to  dismiss  the 
theory  of  Korean  instruction.  Another  suggestive 
fact  is  that  the  employment  of  enamels  in  the  decora- 
tion of  sword-furniture  began  at  the  same  time.  Its 
originator  was  Hirata  Hikoshiro  (art  name  Doniri), 
and  the  representatives  of  his  family,  down  to  modern 
times,  continued  to  use  enamel  in  that  way,  their 
productions  finding  considerable  favour.  Indeed,  the 
name  "  Hirata  "  became  so  intimately  associated  with 
work  of  this  nature  that  in  later  times  an  erroneous 
theory  found  credence  to  the  effect  that  Donin  was 
the  inventor  of  cloisonne  enamel  in  Japan.  The  only 
credit  justly  belonging  to  the  Hirata  artists  was  that 
they  applied  enamels  to  sword-furniture,  and  that 
they  alone  could  produce  a  white  paste  successfully. 

1  See  Appendix,  note  54. 

332 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

White  enamel  has  always  been  the  most  difficult  of 
all  the  pastes  to  obtain  perfectly  pure,  and  purple 
stands  next  on  the  list.  Ability  to  produce  a  fine, 
speckless  white  constituted  the  only  specialty  of  the 
Hirata  family,  and  because  they  jealously  guarded  the 
secret  of  the  process,  tradition  magnified  their  share 
in  employing  enamels  generally.  It  is  undeniable, 
however,  that  they  showed  great  skill  in  decorating 
sword-furniture  with  vitrified  pastes.  They  never 
covered  the  surface  of  a  sword-guard  or  a  dagger-haft 
with  such  ornamentation,  but  merely  used  the  enam- 
els to  fill  in  floral  designs,  arabesques,  scrolls,  or 
mosaics  enclosed  in  small  medallions.  Generally  the 
pastes  were  polished  (kazari-jipfb\  but  occasionally 
they  were  of  the  nagashi-jippo  style.  Nor  were  they 
always  fired  in  situ.  A  not  uncommon  method 
(called  ji-ita-jippo)  was  to  complete  the  enamel  design 
independently  and  then  embed  it  in  the  metal  field. 
By  recourse  to  the  latter  device  enamels  could  be 
used  for  decorating  lacquered  objects  having  a  wooden 
base,  and  they  were  so  used  from  the  middle  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  especially  in  the  ornamentation 
of  inro  (medicine-boxes  suspended  from  the  girdle). 
It  may  be  added  that  the  vitrified  pastes  of  the  Hirata 
family,  and  of  other  artists  who  freely  imitated  their 
work  and  even  used  their  signatures  were  some- 
times opaque  (doro-jippo)  and  sometimes  translucid 
(suki-jipfo). 

Kaji  Tsunekichi,  a  samurai  of  Owari  fief,  was  the 
first  Japanese  to  manufacture  cloisonne  enamels  of  the 
kind  known  in  the  Occident  by  this  name ;  that  is  to 
say,  plates,  vases,  and  censers  having  the  surface  en- 
tirely covered  with  vitrified  pastes  disposed  in  designs 
by  means  of  cloisons.  Like  many  other  samurai  Kaji, 

333 


JAPAN 

finding  his  official  income  insufficient  for  the  wants 
of  his  family,  sought  to  supplement  it  by  pursuing 
a  handicraft,  and  at  twenty  years  of  age  —  he  was 
born  in  1802  —  he  took  up  the  occupation  of  a  metal- 
plater.  According  to  his  own  account  of  his  career, 
he  chanced,  in  1830,  to  read  in  a  book  of  the  six- 
teenth century  that  the  materials  for  shippo  decoration 
were  coral,  lapis  lazuli,  mother-of-pearl,  agate,  amber, 
tortoise-shell,  and  rock-crystal.  There  was  here  no 
question  of  vitrified  pastes,  but  actually  of  the  "  seven 
precious  things."  The  idea  suggested  to  Kaji  Tsune- 
kichi  seems  to  have  been  that  these  substances  were 
actually  used  for  making  vitrifiable  pastes,  but  his 
misconception  was  corrected  two  years  later  by  ex- 
amination of  a  specimen  of  Chinese  cloisonne  enamel 1 
which  he  obtained  from  a  merchant,  Matsuoka  Kahei, 
of  Nagoya.  He  now  applied  himself  with  patient  assi- 
duity to  work  of  this  kind,  and  succeeded,  in  1 839,  in 
making  a  plate,  six  inches  in  diameter,  which  he  sold 
to  Matsuoka  for  five  riyo.  This  achievement  in- 
spired still  greater  efforts.  Various  articles  were 
turned  out,  chiefly  pen-rests,  desk-screens,  cups,  and 
such  small  specimens,  and  in  1839  he  had  the  honour 
of  seeing  his  productions  presented  to  the  Tokugawa 
Court  in  Yedo  by  the  feudal  chief  of  Owari  as  exam- 
ples of  the  technical  achievements  of  the  fief.  Orders 
now  came  to  Kaji  and  he  enjoyed  a  time  of  compara- 
tive prosperity.  In  1853  he  began  to  take  pupils, 
and  made  known  the  manufacturing  processes  to  sev- 
eral persons.  Thus,  during  twenty  years  previous 
to  the  re-opening  of  the  country  to  foreign  trade  in 
1857,  cloisonne  enamelling  had  been  applied  in  the 
manner  now  understood  by  the  term,  and  when  for- 

1  See  Appendix,  note  55. 

334 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

eign  merchants  began  to  settle  in  Yokohama  in  1858, 
several  experts  were  working  skilfully  in  Owari  after 
the  methods  of  Kaji  Tsunekichi.     Up  to  that  time 
there  had  been  little  demand  for   enamels   of  large 
dimensions,  but  when  the  foreign  market  called  for 
vases,  censers,  plaques,  and  such  things,  no  difficulty 
was  experienced  in  supplying  them.     Thus,  about  the 
year  1865,  there  commenced   an   export   of  enamels 
which  had    no   prototypes  in    Japan,  being  destined 
frankly  for  European  and  American  collectors.      From 
a  technical  point  of  view  these  works  had  much  to 
commend   them.     The   base  —  usually  of  copper  — 
was    as   thin  as  cardboard  ;    the  cloisons,   exceedingly 
fine  and  delicate,  were  laid  on  with   care  and   accu- 
racy ;   the  colours  were  even,  and  the  design  showed 
artistic  judgment.     Two  faults,  however,  marred  the 
work :  first,  the  shapes  were  clumsy  and  unpleasing, 
being,   in   fact,  copied   from   bronzes   where  solidity 
justified   forms   unsuited    to   thin    enamelled    vessels ; 
secondly,  the  colours,  sombre  and  somewhat  impure, 
lacked  the  glow  and  mellowness  that  give  decorative 
superiority  to  the  technically  inferior  Chinese  enamels 
of  the  later  Ming  and  early   Tsing  eras.     Very  soon, 
however,  the  artisans  of  Nagoya  (Owari),  Yokohama, 
and  Tokyo  —  where  the   art  had  been   taken   up  — 
found  that  faithful  and  fine  workmanship  did  not  pay. 
The  foreign  export  merchant  desired  many  and  cheap 
specimens  for   export    rather    than    few    and    costly. 
There  followed  then  a  period  of  gradual  decline,  and 
the  enamels   exported   to   Europe   were  products  of 
a  widely  different  character  and  of  different  makers. 
The  industry  was  threatened  with  extinction  and  would 
certainly   have  dwindled  to   insignificant    dimensions 
had  not  a  few  earnest  artists,  working  in  the  face  of 

335 


JAPAN 

many  difficulties  and  discouragements,  succeeded  in 
striking  out  new  lines  and  establishing  new  standards 
of  excellence.  The  main  features  of  this  fresh  de- 
parture were,  first,  that  the  character  of  the  decorative 
designs  was  changed,  and,  secondly,  that  the  quality 
and  range  of  the  colours  underwent  great  improve- 
ment. Three  clearly  differentiated  schools  came  into 
existence.  One,  headed  by  Namikawa  Yasuyuki,  of 
Kyoto,  took  for  its  objects  the  utmost  delicacy  and 
perfection  of  technique,  richness  of  decoration,  purity 
of  design,  and  harmony  of  colours.  The  thin,  clum- 
sily shaped  vases  of  the  Kaji  school,  with  their  uni- 
formly distributed  decoration  of  diapers,  scrolls,  and 
arabesques  in  comparatively  dull  colours,  ceased  alto- 
gether to  be  produced,  their  place  being  taken  by 
graceful  specimens  technically  flawless  and  carrying 
designs  not  only  free  from  stiffness  but  also  executed 
in  colours  at  once  rich  and  soft. 

The  next  school  may  be  subdivided,  Kyoto  repre- 
senting one  branch,  Nagoya,  Tokyo,  and  Yokohama 
the  other.  In  the  products  of  the  Kyoto  branch  the 
decoration  generally  covered  the  whole  surface  of  the 
piece ;  in  the  products  of  the  other  branch  the  artist 
aimed  rather  at  pictorial  effect,  placing  the  design  in 
a  monochromatic  field  of  low  tone.1  Many  exquisite 
specimens  of  cloisonne  enamels  have  been  produced  by 
each  branch  of  this  school.  There  is  nothing  like 
them  to  be  found  in  any  other  country,  and  they 
stand  at  an  immeasurable  distance  above  the  works  of 
early  Owari  experts  represented  by  Kaji  Tsunekichi, 
his  pupils  and  colleagues. 

The  second  of  the  modern  schools  is  headed  by 
Namikawa 2  Sosuke,  of  Tokyo.  It  is  an  easily  traced 

1  See  Appendix,  note  56.  2  See  Appendix,  note  57. 

336 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

outgrowth  of  the  second  branch  of  the  first  school, 
just  described  ;  for  one  can  readily  understand  that 
from  placing  the  decorative  design  in  a  monochro- 
matic field  of  low  tone,  which  is  essentially  a  pictorial 
method,  development  would  proceed  in  the  direction 
of  concealing  the  mechanics  of  the  art  in  order  to 
enhance  the  pictorial  effect.  Thus  arose  the  so-called 
"  cloisonless  enamels"  (musen-jipfo).  They  are  not 
always  without  cloisons.  The  design  is  generally 
framed,  at  the  outset,  with  a  ribbon  of  thin  metal, 
precisely  after  the  manner  of  ordinary  cloisonne  ware. 
But  as  the  work  proceeds  the  cloisons  are  hidden,  — 
unless  their  presence  would  contribute  to  give  neces- 
sary emphasis  to  the  design,  —  and  the  final  result  is 
a  picture  in  vitrified  enamels.  This  remarkable  tour 
de  force  has  created  some  discussion.  There  are  those 
that  question  whether  the  principles  of  true  art  are  not 
violated  when  an  attempt  is  made  to  produce  pictorial 
effects  by  the  aid  of  such  materials  as  vitrified  pastes. 
The  purist  may  find  that  objection  unanswerable. 
Yet  it  seems  to  be  opposed  to  the  practice  of  artists 
in  all  ages.  Neither  in  ancient  nor  in  modern 
Europe  has  any  canon  been  obeyed  that  sets  limits  to 
the  range  of  decorative  motives.  If  the  sculptor  may 
apply  to  a  frieze  or  the  keramist  to  a  vase  subjects  of 
which  the  technical  and  artistic  quality  is  estimated 
by  their  fidelity  to  nature,  why  should  similar  latitude 
be  denied  to  an  artist  working  with  enamels  ?  At 
all  events  it  is  certain  that  fine  specimens  of  musen- 
jippo  are  beautiful  objects.  They  are  imperishable 
pictures  in  vitrified  pastes,  remarkable  as  to  technical 
skill,  harmonious  and  at  the  same  time  rich  in  colour- 
ing, and  possessing  pictorial  qualities  which  could  not 
reasonably  have  been  looked  for  in  such  material. 

VOL.     VII.  22  O  -77 


JAPAN 

The  characteristic  productions  of  the  third  among 
the  modern  schools  are  monochromatic  and  trans- 
lucid  enamels.  All  students  of  the  keramic  art  know 
that  the  monochrome  porcelains  of  China  owe  their 
beauty  chiefly  to  the  fact  that  the  colour  is  in  the 
glaze,  not  under  it.  The  keramist  finds  no  difficulty 
in  applying  an  uniform  coat  of  pigment  to  porcelain 
biscuit  and  covering  the  whole  with  a  diaphanous 
glaze.  The  colour  is  fixed  and  the  glaze  set  by  sec- 
ondary firing  at  a  lower  temperature  than  that  neces- 
sary for  hardening  the  pate.  Such  porcelains  lack 
the  velvet-like  softness  and  depth  of  tone  so  justly 
prized  in  the  genuine  monochrome,  where  the  glaze 
itself  contains  the  colouring  matter,  pate  and  glaze 
being  fired  simultaneously  at  the  same  high  tempera- 
ture. It  is  apparent  that  a  vitrified  enamel  may  be 
set  to  perform,  in  part  at  any  rate,  the  function  of 
a  porcelain  glaze.  Acting  upon  that  theory,  the 
experts  of  Tokyo  and  Nagoya  have  produced,  during 
recent  years,  many  very  beautiful  specimens  of  mono- 
chrome enamels,  —  yellow  (canary  or  straw),  rose  du 
Barry,  liquid-dawn  red,  aubergine  purple,  grass  or 
leaf  green,  dove-grey,  and  lapis  lazuli  blue.  These 
pieces  do  not  quite  reach  the  level  of  Chinese  mono- 
chrome porcelains,  but  their  inferiority  is  not  marked. 
The  artist's  great  difficulty  is  to  hide  the  metal  base 
completely.  A  monochrome  loses  much  of  its  attrac- 
tiveness when  the  colour  merges  into  a  metal  rim,  or 
when  the  interior  of  a  specimen  is  covered  with  crude, 
unpolished  paste.  But  to  spread  and  fix  the  paste 
so  that  neither  at  the  rim  nor  in  the  interior  shall 
there  be  any  break  of  continuity  or  any  indication 
that  the  base  is  metal  not  porcelain,  is  a  tour  de  force 
demanding  extraordinary  skill. 

338 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

The  translucid  enamels  of  the  modern  school  are 
generally  associated  with  decorated  bases.  In  other 
words,  a  suitable  design  is  chiselled  in  the  metal  base 
so  as  to  be  seen  through  the  diaphanous  enamel.  Very 
beautiful  effects  of  broken  and  softened  light  combined 
with  depth  and  delicacy  of  colour  are  thus  obtained. 
But  the  decorative  designs  which  lend  themselves  to 
such  a  purpose  are  not  numerous.  A  gold  base  deeply 
chiselled  in  wave-diaper  and  overrun  with  a  paste  of 
aubergine  purple,  is  among  the  most  pleasing.  A 
still  higher  tour  de  force  is  to  apply  to  the  chiselled 
base  designs  executed  in  coloured  enamels,  finally 
covering  the  whole  with  translucid  paste.  Admirable 
results  are  thus  obtained.  Through  a  medium  of 
cerulean  blue  bright  gold-fish  and  steel-backed  carp 
appear  swimming  in  silvery  waves,  or  brilliantly 
plumaged  birds  seem  to  soar  among  fleecy  clouds. 
The  artists  of  this  school  show  also  much  skill  in 
using  enamels  for  purposes  of  subordinate  decoration 
—  for  example,  suspending  enamelled  butterflies,  birds, 
floral  sprays,  etc.,  among  the  reticulations  of  a  silver 
vase  chiselled  a  jour  (this  kind  of  work  is  called 
hirado-jipfo}  ;  or  filling  with  translucid  enamels  parts 
of  a  decorative  scheme  sculptured  in  iron,  silver,  gold, 
or  sbakudo. 

The  reader  will  perceive  at  once  what  great  strides 
Japanese  workers  in  cloisonne  enamels  have  made  since 
the  days  when  they  sent  to  Europe  specimens  such 
as  those  carefully  classified  and  illustrated  in  "  The 
Decorative  Arts  of  Japan."  It  is  not  incorrect  to  say 
that  the  art  of  cloisonne  enamelling  in  Japan  was 
developed  during  the  last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth 
century  from  a  condition  of  comparative  crudeness1 

1  See  Appendix,  note  58. 

339 


JAPAN 

to  one  of  unparalleled  excellence.  There  was  no 
reason  to  anticipate  that  the  Japanese  would  take  the 
lead  of  the  world  in  this  branch  of  applied  art.  They 
had  no  presumptive  title  to  do  so.  Yet  they  cer- 
tainly have  done  so. 

There  has  been  discussion  among  Occidental  con- 
noisseurs about  the  relative  merits  of  the  cloisonne 
enamels  of  China  and  Japan.  It  has  been  main- 
tained that  Japanese  productions  look  sombre  and 
flimsy,  and  that  the  advantage  is  with  the  Chinese  in 
restful  solidity,  as  well  as  depth,  purity,  and  harmony 
of  tone.  The  criticism  appears  just  so  long  as  Japan 
is  represented  solely  by  the  works  of  the  school 
founded  by  Kaji  Tsunekichi  and  maintained  by  his 
pupils  and  successors  down  to  the  year  1880.  But  at 
the  latter  date  the  Japanese  expert  entered  an  entirely 
new  field  where  he  completely  distanced  his  Chinese 
rival.  The  artists  of  the  two  countries  now  work  on 
lines  so  different  that  accurate  comparison  is  scarcely 
possible.  But  it  must  not  be  assumed  that  the  Jap- 
anese expert  would  find  difficulty  in  adopting  the 
Chinese  methods.  There  has  been  practical  proof 
to  the  contrary.  Between  the  years  1850  and  1870 
Maizono  Genwo  of  Kanazawa,  a  pupil  of  Kaji  Tsune- 
kichi and  subsequently  of  a  Chinese  expert  in  Naga- 
saki, produced  several  specimens  of  cloisonne  enamels 
in  the  pure  Chinese  style.  They  were  of  small 
dimensions,  chiefly  sa&e-cups  and  bowls ;  the  cloisons 
were  of  gold  or  silver,  and  the  colour  and  quality  of 
the  paste  as  well  as  the  general  technique  were  indis- 
tinguishable from  the  finest  Chinese  work.  Some 
experts  of  the  present  time,  also,  have  conceived  the 
idea  of  adding  the  Chinese  style  to  their  various 
accomplishments  and  have  succeeded  thoroughly. 

340 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 


LACQUER 

It  has  been  held  by  many  critics  that  lacquered 
objects  stand  highest  among  the  products  of  Japan's 
applied  art,  first  because  the  quality  of  the  lacquer  as 
to  hardness,  durability,  and  lustre,  is  unparalleled,  and 
secondly  because  the  decorative  genius  of  her  artists 
has  been  exercised  in  this  field  with  most  conspicuous 
success  and  with  marked  independence  of  foreign 
influence.  Certainly  the  lustre  of  Japanese  lacquer 
appeals  to  the  least  educated  eye,  so  much  so  that  a 
box  or  tray  of  fine  black  lacquer  without  ornamenta- 
tion of  any  sort  possesses  an  indescribable  charm,  and 
tempts  the  spectator  not  merely  to  gaze  at  it,  but 
also  to  feel  and  caress  it.  Durability  and  hardness, 
too,  though  they  are  not  qualities  that  enter  into  a 
normal  estimate  of  beauty,  have  much  to  do  with  the 
artistic  developments  of  Japanese  lacquer,  for  had  it 
not  possessed  these  attributes,  it  could  never  have 
been  considered  worthy  of  the  magnificent  and  costly 
decoration  lavished  upon  it.  It  resists  the  action  of 
boiling  liquids  and  of  alcohol,  so  that  a  lacquered  cup 
can  be  used  for  tea,  for  soup,  for  hot  sake,  and  in  fact 
for  all  table  purposes,  being  in  that  respect  equal  to 
porcelain,  while  it  is  superior  to  porcelain  in  security 
against  fracture  and  in  non-conducting  properties. 
There  are  now  standing  in  the  Tokyo  Museum  of 
Arts  specimens  of  lacquer  which,  having  lain  at  the 
bottom  of  the  sea  for  some  years  in  a  sunken  steamer, 
were  found,  when  recovered,  to  still  retain  much  of 
their  original  beauty.  And  in  the  collections  of 
Japanese  connoisseurs  there  are  numbers  of  lacquered 
objects  many  centuries  old,  which  have  withstood  all 


JAPAN 

the  effects  of  time,  and  are  now  as  perfect  as  when  they 
emerged  from  their  makers'  hands.  This  admirable 
durability,  especially  remarkable  considering  that  the 
base  used  by  the  lacquerer  is  wood  of  exceeding  thin- 
ness and  frailty,  must  be  attributed  in  part,  of  course, 
to  the  preservative  properties  of  the  lacquer  varnish 
itself,  but  largely  also  to  the  skill  of  the  experts  by 
whom  these  fine  specimens  were  produced. 

Japan  derived  the  art  of  lacquer  manufacture  from 
China.  There  can  be  no  doubt  of  that.  The  tools 
used  in  both  countries  are  almost  identical  and  the 
methods  have  such  a  likeness  that  their  common 
origin  is  unquestionable.  But  as  the  time  of  the 
art's  introduction  into  Japan  was  pre-historical,  the 
date  cannot  be  fixed  accurately.  Certainly,  how- 
ever, it  was  not  later  than  the  beginning  of  the 
sixth  century,  and  it  will  probably  be  right  to 
conclude  that,  like  many  other  products  of  civilisa- 
tion, this  also  came  in  the  train  of  Buddhism.  At 
first  the  art  does  not  seem  to  have  extended  beyond 
the  manufacture  of  plain  bla-ck  lacquer,  but  antiqua- 
rians allege  that  from  the  early  years  of  the  eighth 
century  ornamentation  with  dust  of  gold  and  mother- 
of-pearl  began  to  be  practised.  There  is  a  measure 
of  conjecture  in  this  statement,  for  the  oldest  speci- 
mens of  artistic  lacquer  known  to  exist  in  Japan  are 
two  boxes,  one  of  which  was  made  to  order  of  the 
celebrated  priest  Kuki,  better  known  as  Kobo  Daishi, 
at  the  close  of  the  ninth  century,  for  the  purpose  of 
containing  the  Shingon  Sutra  which  he  had  conveyed 
from  China,  and  the  other  is  a  receptacle  for  jewels 
believed  to  date  from  approximately  the  same  period. 
Both  objects  are  decorated  after  the  manner  called 
maki-kin-lro ;  that  is  to  say,  gold  and  silver  dust  hav- 

342 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

ing  been  scattered  over  the  surface  of  the  lacquer,  a 
design  is  added,  and  the  whole  is  then  delicately 
polished.  The  decorative  motive  of  the  jw/r^z-case  is  a 
troop  Qikaryobin  (birds  with  angel's  torsos)  flying  among 
flowers ;  that  of  the  jewel-box  is  an  elaborate  floral 
diaper.  In  the  former  the  artist  carefully  followed 
Chinese  models ;  in  the  latter  he  partially  obeyed 
the  naturalistic  tendency  of  Japanese  genius.  These 
works  show  too  much  technical  skill  to  be  attributed 
to  the  beginning  of  a  period  of  art  development,  and 
it  seems  a  reasonable  inference  that  lacquers  simi- 
larly decorated  had  been  produced  since  an  earlier 
era. 

The  tenth  century  saw  a  further  extension  of  the 
range  of  motives :  landscapes  and  religious  scenes 
began  to  be  included  in  the  lacquerer's  repertoire. 
It  is  on  record  that  the  Emperor  Kwazan  (985)  exe- 
cuted with  his  own  hand  a  design  of  Horai-zan  (the 
mountain  of  elysium)  on  a  lacquer  writing-desk,  and 
there  are  authenticated  specimens  of  twelfth-century 
lacquer  in  which  the  decorative  designs  take  the 
forms  of  a  figure  of  Shaka  among  flowers  and  birds, 
of  Arhats  worshipping  a  dragon,  of  phoenixes,  and 
even  of  human  figures.  From  the  eleventh  century, 
also,  the  use  of  lacquer  ceased  to  be  limited  to  boxes, 
desks,  and  minor  objects  of  furniture:  it  was  applied 
to  columns,  beams,  and  other  parts  of  the  interiors  of 
temples,  and  the  processes  hitherto  adopted  were  sup- 
plemented by  inlaying  with  mother-of-pearl  and  with 
gold.  The  decorative  artist  now  quickly  passed  to 
elaborate  and  delicately  executed  landscapes  as  well  as 
intricate  and  tasteful  designs,  which  he  was  certainly 
able  to  depict  with  marked  skill  during  the  thirteenth 
century,  if  not  during  the  twelfth.  He  further  em- 

343 


JAPAN 

ployed  incrustation  with  gold  foil,  and  some  speci- 
mens dating  from  the  Kamakura  epoch  show  an 
affinity  with  the  pictorial  scrolls  of  the  time,  their 
decorative  designs  being  chosen  so  as  to  illustrate 
verses  of  poetry  traced  in  golden  ideographs  beside 
the  picture.  To  the  Kamakura  era  belongs  also  a 
new  departure,  namely,  the  application  of  vermilion 
lacquer  to  objects  having  their  wooden  surfaces  carved 
in  diapers  or  arabesques.  This  kind  of  work  — 
called  Kamakura-bori  (Kamakura  carving)  —  appears 
to  have  been  suggested  by  the  red  lacquer  of  China 
which  has  designs  cut  in  the  lacquer  itself.  The 
Kamakura-bori  belongs  to  a  palpably  inferior  grade  of 
work,  but  some  interest  attaches  to  it  as  it  probably 
helped  to  suggest  an  important  development  with 
which  the  Ashikaga  epoch  is  credited. 

That  development  was  the  production  of  what  is 
called  taka-maklye  (lacquer  in  relief).  Hitherto  artists 
had  confined  themselves  to  hira-makiye  (flat  lacquer), 
that  is  to  say,  lacquer  having  the  decorative  design  in 
the  same  plane  as  the  ground.  The  sole  exception 
had  been  the  Kamakura-bori y  just  spoken  of,  in  which 
effects  of  relief  were  obtained  by  carving  the  wood  to 
which  the  lacquer  was  applied.  Now,  however,  ex- 
perts undertook  surface  modelling  in  the  lacquer  itself. 
It  is  not  possible  to  fix  the  exact  date  of  this  notable 
addition  to  the  art,  but  it  certainly  reached  a  point 
of  high  development  in  the  time  of  the  Shogun  Yoshi- 
masa  (1449—1490).  There  has  been  frequent  occa- 
sion to  allude  to  Yoshimasa  in  these  pages,  and  to  the 
extraordinary  impulse  that  all  branches  of  art  received 
from  his  establishment  of  the  tea-clubs  and  from  his 
munificent  patronage.  The  taka-makiye,  which  from 
his  era  became  famous,  constitutes  one  of  the  distinc- 

344 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

tive  features  of  Japanese  lacquer.  It  is  not  found  in 
the  lacquers  of  either  China  or  Korea.  With  it,  in 
that  respect,  may  be  classed  aventurine  lacquer,  called 
"pear-ground"  {nashi-ji\  in  Japan.  This,  too,  has 
never  been  produced  elsewhere.  Briefly,  nashiji  may 
be  described  as  a  surface  presenting  the  appearance 
of  golden  sand  pervaded  by  a  faint  glow  of  russet 
brown.  The  gradual  emergence  of  such  a  type  from 
the  gold  dusted  fields  of  earlier  epochs  is  not  difficult 
to  conceive,  but  to  the  experts  of  Yoshimasa's  era 
belongs  the  credit  of  having  indicated  the  possibilities 
of  this  beautiful  decoration. 

No  lacquerers  prior  to  the  days  of  Yoshimasa,  that 
is  to  say,  the  second  half  of  the  fifteenth  century, 
attained  sufficient  renown  to  be  remembered  by  pos- 
terity. Then  for  the  first  time  the  annals  speak  of 
Hidetsugu  of  Nara,  who  constructed  tea-boxes  after 
designs  by  the  celebrated  chajin  Joo,  and  whose  de- 
scendants continued  to  work  through  several  genera- 
tions; of  Hadagoro  of  Kyoto,  whose  lacquers  were 
known  as  Hokkai-nuri-mono  from  the  name  of  the 
locality  where  he  resided ;  of  Koami  Docho,  who 
obtained  designs  from  Tosa  Mitsunobu,  from  Noami 
and  from  Soami,  and  who  excelled  in  all  the  pro- 
cesses of  flat  lacquer  as  well  as  lacquer  in  relief, 
bequeathing  his  art  to  his  descendants,  of  whom  his 
great-grandson  Sozen,  the  latter's  son  Sokei,  and  his 
grandson  Sohaku  were  all  famous  lacquerers;  of 
Koami  Dosei,  the  second  of  the  Koami  family ;  of 
Taiami  and  Seiami  and  of  Igarashi  Shinsai,  who  also 
founded  a  long  line  of  skilled  artists.  It  is  plain  that 
from  the  era  of  Yoshimasa  —  commonly  spoken  of  in 
art  circles  as  "  Higashi-yama  "  — the  expert  lacquerer 
began  to  rank  with  the  pictorial  artist  or  the  sculptor. 

345 


JAPAN 

Until  its  closing  years  the  sixteenth  century  showed 
no  marked  progress  in  the  process  of  lacquer  produc- 
tion, a  fact  doubtless  attributable  in  the  main  to  the 
exceedingly  disturbed  state  of  the  Empire.  But  when 
the  Taiko  had  restored  peace,  and  had  inaugurated  the 
fashion  of  lavishing  all  the  resources  of  applied  art  on 
the  interior  decoration  of  castles  and  temples,  the  ser- 
vices of  the  lacquerer  were  employed  to  an  extent 
hitherto  unknown,  and  there  resulted  some  very  fine 
work  on  friezes,  coffered  ceilings,  door-panels,  altar- 
pieces,  and  reliquaries.  At  first,  when,  tranquillity 
having  been  established,  the  lacquer  experts  returned 
to  Kyoto  from  their  retreats  in  the  provinces,  speci- 
mens produced  by  them  showed  defects  of  technique, 
and  came  to  be  classed  for  that  reason  under  the  name 
of  Karasumaru-mono,  Karasumaru  being  the  locality  of 
their  manufacture.  But  the  rapidly  growing  demand 
for  fine  work  in  architectural  decoration  soon  raised 
the  standard  of  skill,  and  all  the  processes  of  the 
Higashi-yama  era  were  employed  with  newly  added 
graces  of  design  and  excellency  of  finish.  Surviving 
specimens  do  not  indicate  that  decoration  in  the  taka- 
makiye  style  (relief)  was  largely  practised.  The  taste 
of  the  time  found  more  faithful  expression  in  a  new 
fashion  introduced  by  Anami  Kwoyetsu  (1590—1637), 
of  which  the  characteristic  features  were  remarkable 
boldness  of  decorative  design,  free  use  of  conventional- 
ised forms,  and  the  employment  of  gold,  silver,  lead, 
and  mother-of-pearl  in  solid  masses.  This  style  re- 
ceived fuller  development  at  the  hands  of  Ogata 
Kworin,  who  is  accounted  one  of  the  greatest  decora- 
tive artists  of  the  seventeenth  century.  It  must  be  con- 
fessed, however,  that  the  mannerisms  of  Kworin  are 
not  always  pleasing.  His  conventionalisms  sometimes 

346 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

become  so  extreme  as  to  lose  suggestiveness,  and  the 
balance  of  his  decorative  scheme  is  disturbed  by  un- 
duly large  masses  of  metal  or  mother-of-pearl.  When 
he  avoids  these  faults  his  work  deserves  the  admira- 
tion it  received  in  his  time,  as  well  as  the  homage  of 
a  numerous  school  of  imitators  down  to  modern  eras. 
Certainly  prior  to  his  epoch  no  expert  of  applied  art 
had  formed  any  comparable  conception  of  the  effect 
of  skilful  spacing  and  the  charm  of  irregularly  yet 
symmetrically  distributed  decoration.  Yet,  even  in 
that  respect,  neither  Kwoyetsu  nor  Kworin  can  be 
called  an  originator.  The  source  from  which  they 
derived  inspiration  is  easily  discovered  by  any  one  ex- 
amining the  illuminated  sutras  of  the  twelfth  century. 
The  Tokugawa  times  were  the  golden  era  of 
lacquer  production.  Not  only  did  the  .universal 
popularity  of  the  tea-clubs  and  the  incense  cult 
create  a  keen  demand  for  the  finest  work,  but  also 
the  interior  decoration  of  the  mausolea  at  Shiba  and 
Nikko  offered  an  unprecedented  field  for  the  art.  In 
these  mausolea  are  to  be  found  the  most  splendid  ap- 
plications of  lacquered  decoration  that  the  world  has 
ever  seen,  nor  is  it  at  all  likely  that  anything  on  a 
comparable  scale  of  grandeur  and  beauty  will  ever 
again  be  produced.  Japanese  connoisseurs  hold  that 
the  summit  of  development  was  reached  at  the  end 
of  the  seventeenth  century  under  the  rule  of  the  fifth 
Shogun,  Tsunayoshi  (1680-1709),  —  that  famous  era 
of  Genroku,  memorable  for  so  much  that  was  bad 
and  so  much  that  was  good  in  Japanese  civilisation. 
Such  was  the  reputation  acquired  by  work  of  that 
time  that  whenever  in  later  days  a  date  had  to  be 
assigned  to  any  specimen  of  exceptionally  fine  quality, 
the  disposition  of  connoisseurs  was  to  refer  it  to  the 

347 


JAPAN 

days  of  J5ken-in  (the  posthumous  name  of  Tsu- 
nayoshi).  It  cannot  be  said,  however,  that  the  art- 
ists of  the  epoch  had  any  new  inspiration.  With 
the  exception  of  Ogawa  Ritsuo,  they  merely  carried 
the  methods  of  their  predecessors  to  the  highest  point 
of  technical  excellence  and  decorative  refinement. 
Ritsuo,  called  also  Haritsu,  flourished  during  the  first 
half  of  the  eighteenth  century.  He  followed  the 
style  of  Kwoyetsu  and  Kworin  in  introducing  masses 
of  metal  into  his  decorative  schemes,  but  he  added 
also  ivory,  and,  above  all,  faience.  It  was  for  this 
last  addition  chiefly  that  he  became  famous,  for  al- 
though the  idea  of  inlaying  a  lacquered  surface  with 
faience  medallions  sounds  bizarre,  the  effect  was  un- 
questionably beautiful. 

Many  exquisite  examples  of  lacquer  are  to  be 
found  in  inro  produced  during  the  Tokugawa  times. 
The  inro,  owing  to  its  small  size  and  comparative 
cheapness,  has  attracted  the  attention  of  foreign  col- 
lectors, and  numerous  specimens  of  great  beauty  are 
among  the  treasures  of  European  and  American  dilet- 
tanti. It  shares  with  the  netsuke  the  charm  of  offer- 
ing an  almost  unlimited  field  of  decorative  motives,  — 
landscapes  copied  from  great  painters,  battle-scenes, 
incidents  from  daily  life,  from  history  and  from  my- 
thology, birds  and  insects  of  every  description,  and 
innumerable  studies  of  flowers  and  foliage.  Almost 
all  the  renowned  lacquerers  from  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury downwards  occupied  themselves,  occasionally, 
with  the  making  of  inro,  but  the  artists  of  the  Koma 
and  Kajikawa  families,  through  several  generations, 
were  especially  connected  with  this  class  of  work, 
and  their  signatures  are  found  most  frequently. 
Since,  however,  the  inro  is  merely  one  of  the  objects 

348 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

to  which  the  lacquerer  mainly  devoted  his  attention, 
everything  that  has  been  said  of  his  art  applies  to  it, 
nor  does  it  call  for  any  separate  discussion. 

A  frequently  published  assertion  is  that  modern 
Japanese  lacquerers  are  far  inferior  to  their  predeces- 
sors, and  that  nothing  now  produced  will  support 
comparison  with  the  work  of  bygone  times.  That 
is  an  error.  There  has  not  been  any  loss  of  skill. 
Shibata  Zeshin,  who  died  in  1891,  was,  perhaps,  as 
great  an  artist  in  lacquer  as  ever  existed,  and  there 
are  men  living  to-day  who  have  all  the  skill  of  the 
best  eras.  The  only  change  is  in  the  conditions  of 
production.  Fine  lacquer  is  exceedingly  costly.  It 
demands  not  only  great  outlay  of  expert  toil,  but  also 
the  use  of  very  expensive  materials.  The  Japanese 
art-artisan,  however,  is  generally  poor ;  or,  at  any 
rate,  his  circumstances  are  too  humble  to  warrant  the 
expenditure  of  large  sums  on  specimens  which  have 
the  less  chance  of  finding  a  purchaser  the  higher  their 
price.  All  the  finest  pieces  of  former  times  were  pro- 
duced to  order,  whereas  at  present  few  persons  are 
disposed  to  give  a  commission,  the  tendency  of  those 
that  can  afford  to  possess  rich  lacquer  being  rather  to 
seek  old  specimens  of  which  the  durability  is  already 
guaranteed,  than  to  take  the  risk  of  having  new 
made.  But  there  has  been  abundant  proof  that  the 
experts  of  the  time  can  do  quite  as  skilled  work  as 
any  of  their  predecessors  did. 

In  the  manufacture  of  Japanese  lacquer,  three  dis- 
tinct processes  have  to  be  noted.  The  first  is  the 
extraction  and  preparation  of  the  lac;  the  second,  its 
application,  and  the  third  decoration  of  the  lacquered 
surface.1 

1  See  Appendix,  note  59. 

349 


JAPAN 

The  lac  is  obtained  from  a  variety  of  the  sumach, 
called   in   Japan    urushi-no-ki    (Rhus  vernicifera ) .     A 
horizontal  incision  is  made  in  the  trunk  of  the  tree, 
and    in  a    few   minutes  this   channel   becomes  filled 
with  a  greyish-white   emulsion  which,  on  exposure 
to  the  air,  changes  to  light  brown  and  ultimately  to 
black.      This  juice  may  be  taken  from  the  tree  at 
any  time   from  April  to    October,   but    midsummer 
is  the  best  season.     The  yield  of  one  tree  varies  from 
twenty-seven  to  fifty-four  grammes,  and  to  obtain  that 
quantity  it  is  necessary  to  destroy  the  tree.      It  ap- 
pears from  official  figures  that  at  least  a  million  trees 
must  be  sacrificed  annually  to  the  needs  of  the  manu- 
facturer, and  readers  will  not  be  surprised  to  learn  that 
of  late  years  a  demand  has  arisen  for  Chinese  lac,  which, 
since  it  can  be  sold  in  Japan  at  a  lower  price  than  that 
of  the  domestic  product,  is  used  for  inferior  classes  of 
work.     According  to  analyses  made  by  Korschelt  and 
Rein,  the  substance  thus  obtained  from  the  lacquer-tree 
contains  from  60  to  85  per  cent  of  lac  acid  (CuHisOa) ; 
from  3  to  6^4  per  cent  of  gum  arabic  ;  from  1.7  to 
3.5   per  cent  of  albumen;    and  from    10  to    34   per 
cent  of  water.     To  prepare  it  for  use,  it  is  first  pressed 
through  cotton-cloth  to  remove  extraneous  bodies,  — 
as  bits  of   bark,  wood,  etc.  ;  it  is  then  ground  in    a 
wooden    tub  for  the   purpose  of  crushing  the  grain 
and  obtaining   uniform  liquidity  ;   subsequently  it  is 
again  strained,   and  finally  the  water   it    contains  is 
expelled  by  exposure  to  the  sun's  rays  or  to  artificial 
heat.1     While  the  drying  process  is  going  on,  various 
ingredients    are    added    according    to    the    kind   of 
lacquer  to  be  produced,  —  gamboge  for  nasbi-ji  (pear- 
ground)    lacquer ;     perilla     oil     and    plum-juice    for 

1  See  Appendix,  note  60. 

35° 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

shunkei  (reddish-yellow)  lacquer ;  yegoma  oil  and  cin- 
nabar for  shu-uruishi  (red  lacquer)  ;  acetous  protoxide 
of  iron  for  ro-iro-urushi  (mirror-black  lacquer) ;  dust 
of  gold  or  silver  for  kin-iro  (golden)  or  gin-iro  (silver) 
lacquer ;  and  so  on.  The  preparation  of  the  lac  up 
to  this  stage  is  the  function  of  a  special  class  of 
workmen,  whose  task  ends  when  the  liquid  is  ready 
for  use. 

Passing  now  to  the  duties  of  the  nuri-mono-shi,  or 
lacquerer,  let  it  be  supposed  that  the  object  to  be 
lacquered  is  a  box  made  of  hi-no-ki  (Retinispora 
obtusa),  a  white  pine,  which,  owing  to  its  fine  grain  and 
freedom  from  knots  and  resin,  is  considered  specially 
suitable.  The  box  having  emerged  from  the  hands 
of  a  skilled  joiner,  its  walls  are  as  thin  as  paper  and  its 
parts  beautifully  fitted.  The  lacquerer's  first  task  is  to 
apply  a  lute,  called  kokuso,  which  consists  of  rice-paste 
and  lac  mixed  with  fine  cotton  wadding.  This  he 
pastes  with  a  pointed  spatula  over  all  lines  of  join- 
ing, wooden  pin  heads,  knots,  or  other  imperfections, 
having  previously  pared  down  these  places  with  a 
knife.  Next  he  spreads  a  thin  coat  of  lac-sizing  over 
the  whole  surface,  the  object  being  to  solidify  the 
latter  by  filling  up  the  natural  pores  of  the  wood  as 
well  as  all  accidental  fissures.  Then  follows  another 
operation  of  luting,  the  putty  used  being  compounded 
of  ground  pottery,  rice-paste,  and  lacquer.  Each  of 
these  processes  is  separated  by  an  interval  long  enough 
to  thoroughly  dry  the  lacquer.  After  the  second 
operation  of  luting,  the  surface  is  burnished  to  perfect 
smoothness  by  means  of  a  special  kind  of  sandstone. 
The  next  process  is  one  of  the  most  important.  The 
whole  object  is  covered  with  a  layer  of  Japanese  paper 
—  the  long-fibred  variety  known  as  mino-gami — or  of 


JAPAN 

thin  hempen  cloth.  To  fix  this  covering,  the  surface 
is  painted  with  a  thin  pulp  of  rice-paste  and  lacquer, 
and  when  the  paper  or  cloth  has  been  smoothly 
pressed  into  this  adhesive  bed,  a  thin  coat  of  lacquer 
is  applied.  The  danger  of  warping  is  thus  effectually 
averted,  and  exudations  from  the  wooden  surface  are 
prevented  from  reaching  the  ultimate  coats  of  lacquer. 
The  surface  of  the  paper  or  cloth  is  then  subjected  to 
processes  somewhat  similar  to  those  employed  in  the 
case  of  the  wooden  surface.  First  it  is  over-spread, 
once,  twice,  or  even  three  times,  with  a  putty  of  rice- 
paste,  lacquer,  and  pottery-dust,  each  coat,  when  dry, 
being  rubbed  down  with  sandstone.  Then  another 
kind  of  pulp  —  differing  from  the  last  in  the  proportion 
of  the  ingredients  and  in  the  addition  of  pulverised 
ochre  —  is  laid  on,  and  carefully  polished  after  dry- 
ing. Next  follows  a  light  coating  of  pure  lacquer, 
and  then  another  application  of  "  stiffening,"  the 
putty  in  this  case  consisting  of  pulverised  ochre  and 
lacquer  with  or  without  pottery  dust.  Indian  ink  is 
now  rubbed  into  the  surface  by  means  of  a  ball  of 
cotton,  and  thereafter  black  lacquer,  specially  pre- 
pared, is  applied  with  a  flat  brush,  the  object  being 
then  carefully  dried.1  A  very  troublesome  and  tedious 
process  ensues.  It  is  that  of  "rubbing  down."  This 
is  done  with  a  special  kind  of  fine-grained  charcoal. 
Many  days  are  devoted  to  the  work,  and  the  surface 
finally  obtained  is  perfectly  smooth,  lustreless,  dark 
grey,  or  greyish  black.  The  preliminary  operations 
are  now  completed,  and  the  object  is  ready  to 
receive  whatever  coats  are  destined  to  give  it  its  final 
appearance. 

The  reader  will  observe  that   in  this  method  of 


1  See  Appendix,  not    61. 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

preparation,  the  basic  material  disappears  altogether 
from  view,  and  the  lacquerer  ultimately  works  on  a 
surface  of  paper  or  cloth.  Such  is  not  the  invari- 
able process,  however.  In  two  favourite  varieties  of 
lacquer  —  kiji-nuri  and  shunkei-nuri  —  the  grain  of  the 
wood  is  shown,  no  veneer  of  paper  or  cloth  being 
employed.  To  produce  these  the  wood  is  first  "  con- 
solidated "  by  a  pore-filling  paste ;  it  is  then  covered 
with  pure  translucid  lacquer  and  polished.  There- 
after, in  the  case  of  the  shunkei-nuri,  a  light  coat  of 
yellow  dust  is  applied,  omitted  in  the  case  of  kiji-nuri. 
The  latter  presents  the  appearance  of  highly  polished 
mahogany  or  rosewood ;  the  former  suggests  maple. 

An  object  which,  by  the  various  processes  described 
above,  has  developed  a  perfectly  smooth,  lustreless, 
greyish-brown  surface,  is  said  to  have  reached  the 
"  medium  "  stage  (naka-nuri\  It  may  now  be  fin- 
ished by  the  application  of  a  single  coat  of  lacquer, 
without  any  subsequent  burnishing,  the  result  being 
nuri-tatey  the  commonest  kind  of  lacquer,  so  called 
because  the  striations  (tate)  produced  by  the  strokes 
of  the  brush  with  which  the  last  coat  is  applied, 
are  clearly  visible.  It  may  here  be  stated  that  in 
fine  lacquer  no  semblance  of  brush-marks  should  be 
perceptible. 

When  the  artisan  desires  to  produce  a  better  class 
of  lacquer  than  the  nuritate,  he  has  merely  to  expend 
more  material  and  more  labour  :  additional  coats  of 
lacquer  and  additional  rubbing  and  polishing.  All 
this  is  only  a  question  of  patience  and  manual  dex- 
terity. Indeed,  Japanese  lacquers  may  be  conven- 
iently divided  into  "  artisan  lacquers "  and  "  art 
lacquers;'3  the  former  comprising  all  varieties  that 
owe  their  beauty  solely  to  the  quality  of  the  ground 

VOL.   vii.  —  23  oro 


JAPAN 

lacquer ;  the  latter,  those  distinguished  by  surface 
decoration.  Of  the  former  there  are  many  kinds, 
from  the  monochromes  —  mirror-black,  vermilion, 
cinnabar,  and  other  hues  of  red,  yellow,  brown,  and 
green  —  to  grounds  ornamented  with  dusting  of  gold, 
silver,  mother-of-pearl,  tin,  or  bronze ;  inlaid  with 
mother-of-pearl ;  marbled ;  grained  like  wood,  and 
so  forth.  Of  the  "  art  lacquers  "  also  there  are  many 
kinds,  but  the  distinguishing  feature  of  all  is  that 
they  have  passed  through  the  hands  of  the  decorative 
artist,  and  by  him  have  been  ornamented  with  pic- 
tures which  take  them  completely  out  of  the  rank  of 
mere  technical  excellence. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  dwell  upon  "  artisan  lacquers/' 
Some  of  them  are  very  attractive,  but,  after  all,  they 
belong  to  the  class  of  varnishes,  and  have  little  to  do 
with  applied  art. 

The  artist  by  whom  the  decoration  of  art  lacquer 
is  undertaken  has  the  name  of  maki-ye-shi,  which 
signifies  "  an  expert  that  strews  pictures."  This  term 
is  derived  from  the  fact  that  strewing  with  dust  of 
gold  was  the  earliest  method  of  lacquer  decoration. 
At  first  the  expert  merely  sprinkled  gold  powder 
sparsely  over  the  surface,  subsequently  polishing  the 
latter.  Such  lacquer  was  called  heijin.  The  next 
stage  of  progress  gave  the  maki-kini-ro,  in  which  gold 
dust  having  been  thickly  strewn  over  a  black  field,  a 
coating  of  translucid  lac  was  superimposed,  careful 
rubbing  with  charcoal  and  polishing  being  the  final 
steps.  Sometimes  the  gold  dust  was  sifted  so  thickly 
that  its  particles  lost  their  individuality,  and  a  golden 
ground  (kiri-ji\  resulted,  showing  soft  lustre  and  a 
charming  play  of  broken  light.  At  a  later  era  "pear- 
ground  "  (nashi-ji)t  or  aventurine,  was  obtained  by 

354 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

strewing  gold  dust  over  a  field  of  russet  brown.  The 
most  highly  esteemed  variety  of  nasbi-ji  was  termed 
giyobu-nasbi-jiy  after  the  name  of  the  artist  (Giyobu) 
who  invented  it  at  the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth 
century.  In  this  variety  the  surface  is  evenly  covered 
with  tiny  squares  of  gold-foil,  laid  one  by  one  in 
their  places,  a  work  demanding  infinite  patience, 
accuracy,  and  delicacy  of  manipulation.  The  sense 
in  which  the  term  makiye-shl  came  to  be  applied  to 
the  decorator  of  art  lacquer  will  be  plain  from  these 
facts,  indicating,  as  they  do,  that  his  task  originally 
was  limited  to  sifting  gold  dust  over  the  lacquer. 

It  may  be  stated  as  an  almost  invariable  rule  that 
either  kin-nashi-jiy  kin-ji,  or  giyobu-nashi-ji  is  found  asso- 
ciated with  the  finest  lacquer,  whether  it  enters  into 
the  decorative  scheme,  or  appears  on  the  reverse  of 
the  object.  A  ground  of  golden  wood-grain  (kin- 
moku-me),  which  costs  the  artist  much  trouble  and 
requires  not  less  skill  than  the  giybbu-nashi-ji,  ranks 
also  among  choice  varieties  of  secondary  decoration. 
But  the  most  difficult  task  of  the  maklye-shi  is,  of 
course,  the  application  of  the  decoration.  The  variety 
of  motives  is  virtually  unlimited,  ranging  from  elabo- 
rate landscapes,  sea-scapes,  battle-scenes,  figure  sub- 
jects, flowers,  foliage,  birds,  insects,  fish,  and  animals, 
to  formal  designs  of  scrolls,  arabesques,  and  diapers. 
His  palette  includes  several  colours,  —  red,  green, 
blue,  silver,  and  gold  being  the  principal,  —  but  in  all 
fine  lacquers  gold  predominates  so  largely  that  the 
general  impression  conveyed  by  the  object  is  one  of 
glow  and  richness.  Not  infrequently  the  most  elabo- 
rate part  of  the  decoration  is  found  on  some  com- 
paratively inconspicuous  part  of  the  object.  This  is 
especially  true  of  letter-boxes  (bunko}  and  writing- 

355 


JAPAN 

boxes  (suzuri-bako),  which  with  book-stands  (shodana} 
and  medicine-boxes  (inro)  have  in  all  ages  been  con- 
sidered deserving  of  the  makiye-shi  s  highest  skill. 
Thus  it  often  happens  that  the  decoration  on  the 
outside  of  a  bunko  or  a  suzuri-bako  is  not  nearly  so 
rich  and  elaborate  as  that  on  the  inside  of  the  lid. 
At  first  sight  such  a  distribution  of  skill  seems  a  mere 
caprice  of  luxury ;  but  the  logic  of  the  decoration 
becomes  evident  by  reflecting  that  when  these  boxes 
are  in  use,  the  lids  are  always  removed  and  placed 
with  their  faces  downwards  on  the  mats,  so  that  the 
decoration  on  the  reverse  side  is  chiefly  seen.  Never- 
theless it  is  an  inviolable  rule  that  every  part  of  a 
fine  lacquer  object  must  show  beautiful  and  highly 
finished  work,  whether  it  be  an  external  or  an 
internal  part. 

As  for  the  process  of  applying  a  decorative  design, 
the  object  first  receives  all  the  treatment,  as  already 
described,  necessary  to  produce  a  perfectly  finished 
ground,  and  upon  the  latter  the  makiye-shi  sketches  the 
design,  working  with  fine  brushes  and  a  paste  of  white 
lead.  Having  thus  obtained  an  outline  drawing,  he 
fills  in  the  details  with  gold  and  colours,  superposes  a 
coat  of  translucid  lacquer,  and  finally  subjects  the 
whole  to  careful  polishing.  If  parts  of  the  design 
are  to  be  in  relief  (taka-makiye\  a  putty  is  used  for 
foundation.  It  consists  of  black-lacquer,  white  lead, 
camphor,  and  lampblack,  and  after  being  laid  on  the 
surface  of  the  object,  it  receives  the  necessary  mod- 
elling, is  polished  with  charcoal,  and  thus  enters  into 
the  field  for  the  decorative  scheme.  No  special  diffi- 
culty attends  the  taka-makiye  process,  and  the  results 
produced  are  wonderfully  rich  and  effective.  Many  con- 
noisseurs, however,  will  find  at  least  equal  beauty  in  fine 

356 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

examples  of  bira-makiye  (flat  makiye},  especially  those 
distinguished  as  togi-dashi ;  that  is  to  say,  pieces 
where  the  pictorial  design  is  brought  out  by  repeated 
processes  of  rubbing,  so  that  all  outlines  disappear, 
and  the  decoration  seems  to  float  in  a  field  of  semi- 
translucid  lacquer.  When  masses  of  metal  or  ivory 
enter  into  the  decorative  scheme,  they  have  to  be 
chiselled  independently  and  afterwards  embedded  in 
the  lacquer.  The  same  is  true  in  a  modified  degree 
of  mother-of-pearl,  though  fragments  are  used  to 
build  up  designs  with  the  aid  of  paste  in  a  manner 
not  possible  where  metals  are  employed.  The  fashion 
of  mother-of-pearl  mosaics  was  inspired  from  China, 
and  some  work  of  that  class  shows  almost  incredible 
microscopic  accuracy.  A  majority  of  the  lacquers 
manufactured  in  modern  times  for  the  foreign  market 
have  mother-of-pearl  (from  the  shell  of  the  baliotis) 
and  ivory  in  the  decorative  scheme.  That  style  was 
brought  into  vogue  by  Shibayama  Dosho  in  the  second 
half  of  the  eighteenth  century.  He  cannot  be  said 
to  have  invented  it,  but,  as  has  been  observed  of  many 
other  Japanese  applied  arts,  the  perfecting  of  the 
method  was  mistaken  for  its  origin.  It  would  be 
impossible  to  overstate  the  richness  and  decorative 
magnificence  of  many  objects  manufactured  in  modern 
workshops  by  combining  lacquer  grounds  with  elabo- 
rately constructed  designs  in  mother-of-pearl,  ivory, 
faience,  gold,  and  silver.  Screens,  cabinets,  boxes,  and 
plaques  in  this  fashion  have  been  sent  abroad  in  great 
numbers  during  the  past  thirty  years,  and  now  embel- 
lish many  Western  salons.  But  they  have  few  attrac- 
tions for  Japanese  connoisseurs,  being,  in  fact,  a 
product  of  foreign  demand.  In  the  works  of  Kwo- 
yetsu,  Kworino,  and  Ritsuo  some  virility  and  chasteness 

357 


JAPAN 

of  taste  always  save  the  decoration  from  becoming 
meretricious.  Shibayama  himself  was  not  unfaithful 
to  true  canons.  But  the  later  disciples  of  his  school 
fall  perpetually  into  the  error  of  imagining  that  the 
chief  ends  to  be  attained  are  profusion  of  detail,  an 
infinite  display  of  manual  dexterity,  and  brilliant  wealth 
of  material.  The  merit  of  magnificence  cannot  be 
denied  to  their  works,  but  they  can  scarcely  be  called 
art  lacquer. 

There  are  some  special  varieties  of  lacquer  which 
are  too  interesting  to  be  left  unnoticed.  Two,  well 
known  to  all  collectors,  are  tsui-koku  and  tsui-shu. 
Both  are  similarly  produced.  The  ground  having 
been  duly  prepared  in  the  orthodox  method,  coats  of 
cinnabar  and  dark-brown  lacquer  are  applied  succes- 
sively until  a  considerable  thickness  has  been  obtained, 
and  then,  while  the  lacquer  is  still  soft,  designs  are  cut 
into  it,  the  channels  made  by  the  chisel  being  V-shaped, 
so  that  their  sloping  sides  afford  a  plain  view  of  the 
alternating  layers  of  red  and  dark-brown  lacquer. 
When  the  ultimate  layer  is  dark-brown,  the  term  tsui- 
koku  is  applied;  when  red,  the  term  tsui-shu.  Such 
works  belong  obviously  to  what  are  here  classed  as 
"  artisan  lacquers."  Another  variety  of  tsui-shu  has  a 
ground  of  incised  arabesques  or  diapers,  supporting  a 
deeply  chiselled  decorative  design  of  flowers,  foljiage, 
birds,  insects,  landscapes,  etc.  In  such  work  the 
lacquer  is  not  applied  in  alternating  layers  of  red  and 
black ;  it  is  usually  pure  red.  Japanese  artists  have 
never  been  remarkable  for  successful  production  of 
this  last  variety  of  tsui-shu.  The  lac  of  China  lends 
itself  better  to  such  purposes,  and  the  choicest  speci- 
mens are  Chinese.1 

1  See  Appendix,  note  62. 

358 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

Two  other  very  attractive  kinds  of  lacquer,  though 
they  do  not  belong  to  the  artistic  class,  are  called 
Tsugaru-nuri  and  Wakasa-nuri,  names  derived  from 
the  districts  (Tsugaru  and  Wakasa)  where  they  are 
produced.  These  lacquers  are  not  of  the  makiye 
kind.  The  decorative  design,  in  which  several  col- 
ours appear,  presents  an  appearance  of  marbling  or 
leaf-pattern,  sometimes,  however,  being  in  regular 
stripes,  and  sometimes  in  an  apparently  fortuitous 
melange  of  clouding  and  spotting.  It  has  been  sup- 
posed that  the  Tsugaru  and  Wakasa  patterns  are  man- 
ufactured by  pressing  leaves  or  twigs  of  plants  into 
the  soft  surface  of  the  lacquer  and  removing  them 
when  the  latter  is  dry,  various  processes  of  coating 
and  polishing  being  subsequently  applied  to  the  ground 
thus  obtained.  But  though  that  method  is  adopted 
in  some  instances,  the  general  plan  is  to  spread  upon 
a  naka-nuri  base  a  pattern  of  putty,  over  which  coats 
of  coloured  lacquer  are  laid — black,  yellow,  red,  and 
green  in  the  case  of  Tsugaru-nun,  with  addition  of 
golden  yellow,  orange  and  brown  for  Wakasa-nuri, — 
the  whole  being  then  covered  with  translucid  lac,  and 
finally  polished  in  the  usual  way.  Like  the  "  trans- 
mutation glazes  "  of  Chinese  porcelain,  the  disposition 
of  the  colours  on  these  curious  lacquers  is  in  a  meas- 
ure accidental,  for  the  salience  of  any  part  of  the 
design  determines  the  amount  of  friction  to  which  it 
must  be  subjected  before  reduction  to  a  plane  surface, 
and  consequently  determines  also  the  colour  that 
emerges  from  the  superincumbent  layers.  Cognate 
with  these  lacquers  is  the  so-called  "tortoise-shell," 
known  in  Japan  as  "rubbed  off  lacquer"  (suri-hagashi- 
nuri\  which  need  not  be  described  further  than  to  say 
that  the  upper  coat  of  black  or  amber-brown  lacquer 

359 


JAPAN 

is  polished  away  in  places  so  as  to  expose  the  under 
coat  of  vermilion  red.  There  is  also  a  variety  called 
chinkin-bori,  of  which,  as  its  name  implies,  the  distin- 
guishing feature  is  that  a  design — generally  of  ara- 
besques or  scrolls  —  is  scratched  upon  black  lacquer, 
and  gold-foil  is  then  rubbed  into  the  lines.  This  is  a 
subsidiary  decoration  seldom  seen  in  combination  with 
fine  work.  "Shark-skin  lacquer"  (same-gawa-nurt) 
is  another  kind  which  used  to  be  greatly  employed  for 
covering  the  sheaths  of  swords.  It  is  obtained  by 
pressing  shark-skin  into  the  ground  of  the  article  to 
be  lacquered,  a  layer  of  rice-paste  having  previously 
been  spread  over  the  surface.  The  skin  is  then  filed 
down  to  an  even  plane,  and  a  coating  of  lacquer  is 
superposed,  with  the  usual  polishing  and  rubbing. 
There  results  a  black  surface  covered  regularly  with 
small  white  circles. 

M.  Louis  Gonse  says,  and  Mr.  E.  Gilbertson 
endorses  his  dictum  as  "  a  simple  truth,"  that  "Japan- 
ese lacquered  objects  are  the  most  perfect  works 
that  have  issued  from  man's  hands." 

NAMES  AND  ERAS  OF  CELEBRATED  LACQUER  EXPERTS 

Hidetsugu,  of  Nara.     Second  half  of  fifteenth  century. 

Hadagoro,  of  Kyoto.  Second  half  of  fifteenth  century. 
His  works  are  known  as  "  Hokkai-nuri-mono." 

Taiami,  of  Kyoto.  Time  of  Ashikaga  Yoshimasa.  Cele- 
brated for  togi-dashi  and  taka-makiye  (which  he  is  said 
to  have  invented).  He  founded  a  long  line  of  expert 
lacquerers. 

Koami  Choan  (1560—1603),  eighth  representative  of  the 
Koami  family. 

Anami  Kwoyetsu  (1590—1637).  A  celebrated  artist;  intro- 
ducer of  the  style  afterwards  carried  to  perfection  by 
Kworin. 

360 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

Ogata  Kworin,  a  renowned  lacquerer  and  painter  of  the 
seventeenth  century  (died  1716),  remarkable  for  the 
bold  freedom  of  his  style. 

Yoji  Hidetsugu  (called  also  Noji  Zenkyo),  second  half  of 
sixteenth  century. 

Seiami  (called  also  Shoho),  second  half  of  sixteenth  century. 

Koami  Sozen,  grandson  of  Kbami  Docho. 

Koami  Sokei,  son  of  Koami  Sozen. 

Koami  Sohaku,  son  of  Koami  Sokei. 

Koami  Dosei,  son  of  Koami  Docho. 

Igarashi  Shinsei,  a  celebrated  lacquerer  patronised  by  the 
Sbbgun  Yoshimasa  (second  half  of  fifteenth  century). 
Many  of  his  descendants  became  famous. 

Koami  Choho,  worked  under  patronage  of  lyeyasu  in  Yedo 
(beginning  of  seventeenth  century). 

Koma  Kiui,  worked  for  lyemitsu  in  Yedo  (first  half  of 
seventeenth  century).  Eleven  generations  of  the  Koma 
family  worked  for  the  Tokugawa. 

Koami  Nagashige,  tenth  generation  of  the  Koami  family. 
A  celebrated  expert  who  worked  mainly  for  the  Toku- 
gawa SKbguns  in  Yedo  (1620-1651),  as  did  also  his 
descendants  through  nine  generations. 

Koami  Nagafusa,  son  of  Koami  Nagashige. 

Koami  Chokyu,  son  of  Koami  Nagafusa. 

Koami  Masamine,  son  of  Koami  Chokyu,  beginning  of 
seventeenth  century. 

Igarashi  Doho,  worked  in  Kaga. 

Yamamoto  Shobei,  worked  in  Nagoya ;  end  of  eighteenth 
century. 

Yamamoto  Shunsho,  worked  in  Kyoto  (died  1682). 

Shunsho,  name  by  nine  descendants  of  Yamamoto  Shunsho, 
who  were  all  lacquer  experts. 

Shibara  Ichidayu,  worked  in  Kaga  (middle  of  seventeenth 
century). 

Koma  Kiuhaku,  son  of  Koma  Kiui  (end  of  seventeenth 
century).  Eleven  generations  of  the  Koma  family  worked 
for  the  Tokugawa  Shoguns  in  Yedo. 

Tatsuki  Chobei,  worked  in  Kyoto  in  second  half  of  seven- 
teenth century,  and  became  very  renowned. 

36" 


JAPAN 

Kajikawa  Kaijiro  (1661—1684),  a  celebrated  lacquerer  of 
Yedo ;  had  the  art  title  of  tenka-ichi.  His  descendants 
continued  to  work  for  several  generations. 

Seigai  Kanshichi  (1680-1710),  celebrated  for  designs  of 
waves :  hence  his  name  seigai  (the  blue  sea). 

Ogawa  Ritsuo,  called  also  Haritsu.  Worked  in  Yedo  and 
died  in  1747.  Celebrated  for  using  faience  in  the  deco- 
ration of  lacquer. 

Shoami  Masanari,  worked  in  Kyoto  (1716-1740);  celebrated 
for  togi-dashi. 

Nagata  Tomoharu  (1720-1750),  an  expert  of  the  Kworin 
school. 

Yamamoto  Rihei  (1735—1766),  worked  in  Kyoto. 

Izuka  Toyo,  called  also  Kwan  Shosai;  worked  in  Awa 
(1760-1780).  Made  inro  only,  for  which  he  was  very 
famous. 

Ninomiya  Totei  (1790-1820),  worked  in  Yedo,  and  was 
specially  skilled  in  producing  chinkin-bori.  He  used  the 
teeth  of  rats  for  engraving  designs  of  peonies,  flowers, 
and  foliage. 

Koma  Kansai  (1800-1845),  pupil  of  Koma  Kiuhaku,  fifth 
representative  of  the  Koma  family,  received  permission 
to  take  the  family  name  in  consideration  of  his  skill. 
He  worked  in  Yedo  and  among  his  pupils  was  the 
celebrated  Shibata  Zeshin. 

Shibata  Zeshin  (1835-1891),  the  most  celebrated  of  modern 
lacquer  experts.  Worked  in  Yedo  and  followed  the 
style  of  Kworin.  Pupil  of  Koma  Kwansai. 

Tamakaji  Zokoku  (1830—1870);  worked  at  Takamatsu  in 
Senuki.  He  is  celebrated  for  a  style  of  lacquer  called 
after  him  (Zokoku-nuri),  which  was  obtained  by  carving 
designs  in  bamboo  or  wood  and  filling  the  lines  with  red, 
yellow,  and  blue  lacquer. 

Hara  Yoyusai,  called  also  Kozan  (1804—1840).  Worked  in 
Yedo  and  attained  high  renown. 

Nakayama  Komin  (1840-1871),  pupil  of  Yoyusai.  Worked 
in  Yedo. 

Ogawa  Shomin  (still  living).  A  pupil  of  Nakayama  Komin. 
Works  in  Tokyo. 

362 


SPECIAL     SUBJECTS 

Hanzan  (1743-1790),  pupil    of  Haritsu  (Ogawa  Ritsuo). 

Worked  in  Yedo  and  adopted  the  style  of  his  master. 
Yosei ;  a  contemporary  of  Hanzan,  and  a  follower  of  Ritsuo's 

style. 
Chohei  (first  part  of  nineteenth  century).     School  of  Ritsuo. 

Worked  in  Yedo. 
Kakosai,  pupil  of  Izuka  Toyo. 
Shokwasai,    a    fellow-worker    with    Shibayama    Dosho    in 

Yedo. 
Shibayama    Dosho    (second    half  of   eighteenth    century). 

Worked    in  Yedo  and  is  celebrated  for  his  success  in 

introducing    ivory    into    the    decoration    of   lacquered 

objects. 

Jokasai  (first  part  of  nineteenth  century);  worked  in  Yedo. 
Shirayama  Shoya  (still  living).  * 

Kawanobe  Itcho  (still  living). 
Uyematsu  Homin  (still  living). 


363 


Appendix 


365 


Appendix 


NOTE  I. — Lit.,  a  "  placed  thing;"  that  is  to  say,  an  object  of  art, 
such  as  a  vase  or  statue,  serving  merely  for  ornamental  purposes. 

NOTE  2.  —  Pronounced  "  Go  Dashi,"  according  to  the  Japanese 
sound  of  the  same  characters. 

NOTE  3. — The  greatest  of  these  men  whose  names  are  household 
words  in  Japan,  were  Li  Lung-yen  (Japanese  Ri  Riumin),  Ma  Yuen 
(Japanese  Bayen),  Muh  Ki  (Japanese  Mokkei),  Hia  Kwei  (Japan- 
ese Ka-Kei),  and  Ngan  Hwai  (Japanese  Ganki). 

NOTE  4.  —  For  detailed  lists  of  Chinese  artists  of  the  Yuan 
(1260-1367),  Min  (1368-1646),  and  later  eras  the  reader  is  rec- 
ommended to  consult  Dr.  Anderson's  "  Catalogue  of  Japanese 
and  Chinese  Paintings  in  the  British  Museum." 

NOTE  5.  —  The  prelate  Kukai  is  recorded  to  have  carried  from 
China  in  the  year  806  no  less  than  thirty-six  paintings  of  supernatural 
scenes  as  well  as  portraits  of  patriarchs,  and  other  priests  enriched 
their  country  to  an  almost  equal  extent  in  the  same  century. 

NOTE  6. — Every  collector  knows  these  maki-mono,  or  pictorial 
scrolls.  Sometimes  the  long  series  of  pictures  told  their  own  tale,  but 
generally  the  drawings  served  only  to  illustrate  a  chapter  of  history  or 
legend  written  in  their  intervals  or  on  their  margins. 

NOTE  7.  —  It  will  be  observed  that  this  record  assigns  to  wood- 
engraving  in  Japan  an  antiquity  nearly  six  hundred  years  greater  than 
that  attributable  to  the  beginning  of  the  art  in  Europe. 

NOTE  8.  —  Dr.  Anderson  assigns  1700  as  the  time  when  colour- 
printing  began  in  Japan,  and  Mr.  S.  Tuke  has  fixed  the  date  at  1710. 
But  the  most  exhaustive  researches  assign  it  to  about  1740. 

NOTE  9.  —  Literally  u  brocade  picture,"  but  the  term  nishiki 
(brocade)  had  long  been  used  in  Japan  in  the  sense  simply  of  "  many- 
coloured."  Another  term  originally  applied  to  these  pictures  was 
suri-mono  (print),  but  the  name  subsequently  came  to  designate  little 
single-sheet  chromo-xylographs  which  were  sent  to  friends  at  the  New 
Year,  and  also  black-and-white  prints.  Sheets  in  sequence  —  two, 
three,  five,  seven,  or  even  twelve  —  which  were  first  introduced  by 

367 


APPENDIX 

Torii  Kiyonaga  in  1775,  are  called  tsuzuki-mono.  Of  nearly  con- 
temporaneous origin  was  the  hashira-kakushi-ye  (post-concealing  pic- 
ture), a  long  narrow  chromo-xylograph ;  and  to  Katsukawa  Shunsho 
(1789)  is  due  the  hoso-ye  (slender  picture),  which  often  shows  remark- 
ably clever  examples  of  designing. 

NOTE  10.  —  Practically  all  knowledge  hitherto  collected  of  the 
sepulchral  relics  of  Japan  is  due  to  the  patient  and  scientific  researches 
of  Mr.  W.  Gowland,  and  to  those  of  the  late  Baron  Kanda  and  Pro- 
fessor Tsuboi  of  the  Imperial  Japanese  University. 

NOTE  IT.  —  Similar  moulds  exist  in  Korea,  a  fact  which  helps  to 
establish  the  theory  of  an  industrial  connection  between  Japan  and 
that  part  of  the  Asiatic  continent  in  early  ages. 

NOTE  12.  —  It  is  noteworthy  that  the  mirrors  of  the  ancient 
Greeks  were  exactly  similar  to  those  of  China  and  Japan,  with  the 
exceptions  that  the  Greeks  did  not  use  quicksilver  and  that  their 
decorative  designs  were  engraved. 

NOTE  13.  —  It  is  interesting  to  compare  these  facts  with  the 
historical  records  on  which  the  Japanese  themselves  have  hitherto 
been  accustomed  to  rely.  Their  oldest  tradition  tells  that  the  Sun 
Goddess  gave  a  mirror  to  her  grandchild,  bidding  him  worship  it  as 
her  invisible  soul  no  less  fervently  than  he  had  previously  worshipped 
her  visible  presence.  There  is  not  any  serious  attempt  to  state 
arithmetically  the  time  when  that  event  occurred,  but  it  necessarily 
antedates  the  era  of  Japan's  terrestrial  sovereigns,  and  must  therefore 
be  referred  to  the  seventh  or  eighth  century  before  Christ.  Yet 
Japanese  archaeologists  speak  of  the  art  of  metal  casting  as  having 
been  acquired  from  Korea  in  the  first  century  before  the  Christian 
era,  and  even  record  the  names  of  two  Korean  experts  —  Mai  Jun 
and  Sho  Toku-haku  —  who  came  to  Japan  to  teach  the  process. 
In  other  words,  they  represent  the  first  exercise  of  the  art  as  having 
taken  place  six  or  seven  hundred  years  after  its  products  had  come 
into  actual  use.  There  is  not  any  irreconcilable  contradiction,  of 
course.  The  Japanese  historian  may  maintain  that  the  mirror  had 
been  in  his  countrymen's  possession  and  had  been  regarded  by  them 
as  a  rare  and  wonderful  object,  long  before  they  understood  the 
processes  of  its  manufacture.  But,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  he  does  not 
appear  to  have  yet  noticed  the  discrepancy  between  attested  facts 
and  the  statements  he  advances. 

NOTE  14.  —  Indra  and  Brama  are  generally  coloured  red  and  green, 
respectively. 

NOTE  15.  — It  is  significant  that  painting  also  was  not  applied  to 
purposes  of  portraiture  in  Japan.  A  few  artists  made  portraits  of 
themselves,  but  the  professional  portrait-painter  had  no  existence. 

368 


APPENDIX 

NOTE  1 6.  —  These  zusbi  have  been  carried  away  in  great  numbers 
to  form  articles  of  decorative  furniture  in  foreign  houses,  for  which 
purpose  they  are  now  expressly  manufactured.  It  is  a  fancy  which 
to  Japanese  eyes  appears  as  incongruous  as  the  use  of  a  reredos  for 
an  over-mantle  or  of  a  monstrance  for  an  epergne  would  seem  to 
Occidentals. 

NOTE  17.  —  Gowland,  in  the  "  Journal  of  the  Society  of  Chemi- 
cal Industry,"  Vol.  XIII. 

NOTE  1 8. — A  vase,  a  censer,  and  a  pricket-candlestick  formed  a 
set,  and  were  collectively  called  mitsu-gusoku,  or  "  the  three  articles  of 
furniture." 

NOTE  19. — The  credit  of  this  success  belongs  to  Signer  Ragusa. 

NOTE  20.  —  The  method  of  applying  the  gold  was  to  "  lay  it  thickly 
over  varnish  composed  of  hone-powder  and  lacquer  upon  hempen 
cloth."  (Satow.) 

NOTE  21.  —  Shitan  is  a  favourite  wood  in  China  and  Japan.  It 
is  the  material  used  by  the  Chinese  for  making  reading-desks,  book- 
cases, vase-stands,  and  many  other  objects  of  furniture  or  decora- 
tion. In  its  natural  state  its  colour  is  red,  but  before  it  emerges 
from  the  workman's  hands  it  is  stained  black,  and  under  the  fric- 
tion of  use  it  develops  a  beautiful  glossy  surface.  It  is  hard, 
close-grained,  and  almost  knotless,  being  thus  specially  adapted  for 
carving. 

NOTE  22. — This  device  has  been  utilised  in  recent  years  for 
making  metal  (silver  or  shibuichi)  cases  to  contain  match-boxes. 

NOTE  23.  —  From  about  the  year  1830  the  use  of  huge  tobacco- 
pouches  obtained  much  vogue  among  the  artisan  classes.  Generally 
these  pouches  had  silver  chains  for  attaching  the  netsuke,  which  was 
of  the  button  (manjiT)  variety  and  proportionately  large.  Sometimes 
the  silver  chains  numbered  as  many  as  fifty,  and  to  such  an  extent 
was  this  extravagance  carried  that  a  man  wearing  clothes  worth  ten 
yen  would  have  a  tobacco-pouch  worth  one  hundred  yen. 

NOTE  24.  —  In  families  whose  ancestors  had  the  honour  of  serv- 
ing the  Tokugawa  Court,  there  are  preserved  and  treasured  long  rolls 
of  brocade  consisting  entirely  of  tobacco-pouch  covers  sewed  together. 
These  serve  primarily  to  illustrate  the  extraordinary  variety  and  beauty 
of  the  stuffs  used  for  covering  pouches,  and  incidentally  to  record  the 
long  service  of  the  families  possessing  them,  for  each  pouch  was  a 
New  Year's  gift  from  the  Shvgun. 

NOTE  25.  —  The  sbima-dai  itself  is  generally  of  pure  white-pine, 
and  the  trees,  crane,  and  tortoise  which  it  supports  are  of  silver  and 
gold  ;  but  the  figures  of  the  old  man  and  the  old  woman  are  invariably 
wood-carvings. 

VOL.  vii.  —  24  369 


APPENDIX 

NOTE  26.  —  Such  chiselling  was  called  itto-bori,  or  "  single-stroke 
carving." 

NOTE  27.  —  Manufacturers  of  all  small  wooden  objects  were 
generically  called  himono-shi. 

NOTE  28.  —  From  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century,  wor- 
shippers at  the  shrines  of  Sugi-no-Mori  Jinja  in  Yedo  fell  into  the 
habit  of  presenting  an  image  of  clay  or  wood  on  the  occasion  of  mak- 
ing a  vow  or  returning  thanks  to  the  deity.  There  were  eight 
houses  where  these  images  were  manufactured,  and  where,  also,  the 
puppets  used  in  festival  processions  were  modelled,  the  material  em- 
ployed for  the  latter  being  usually  a  variety  of  paper  called  mlno- 
gami,  which  can  be  worked  up  to  the  consistency  and  strength  of 
planking.  The  nature  of  these  puppets  will  be  apparent  from  the 
fact  that  the  most  remarkable  among  them  were  the  Denshicbi-migyo 
which  had  movable  eyes.  They  derived  their*  name  from  that  of 
their  maker,  Takeoka  Denkichi,  who,  in  1873,  constructed  with 
mino-gami  an  exact  copy  of  the  Kamakura  Dai-Butstt  for  the 
Vienna  Exhibition.  The  Takeoka  family,  now  represented  by 
Takeoka  Gohei,  were  inspired  by  the  example  of  Matsumoto 
Kisaburo  to  effect  great  improvements  in  the  manufacture  of  these 
puppets. 

NOTE  29.  —  This  has  been  demonstrated  by  experiments  con- 
ducted in  Yezo  by  Professor  H.  S.  Munroe,  an  American  mining- 
engineer. 

NOTE  30.  —  Reference  may  be  made  to  two  huge  carp,  about  nine 
feet  in  height,  which  stand  at  either  extremity  of  the  roof-ridge  of 
Nagoya  Castle.  According  to  popular  belief  they  are  made  of  pure 
gold,  but  they  are  in  fact  copper  plated  with  the  precious  metal. 

NOTE  31.  —  The  gilding  process  is  thus  described  by  Mr.  W. 
Gowland,  formerly  Assayer  at  the  Imperial  Japanese  Mint,  in  one 
of  a  series  of  valuable  essays  read  before  the  Society  of  Chemical 
Industry:  "The  object  of  copper  or  bronze  to  be  gilded  was 
immersed  in  vinegar  made  from  the  juice  of  unripe  plums  until  a 
clean  metallic  surface  was  obtained.  It  was  then  washed  with  water 
and  dried  over  a  brazier,  and  mercury  was  applied  to  it  while  it  was 
still  warm.  When  the  surface  had  thus  been  amalgamated,  the  gold 
was  laid  upon  it  in  the  form  of  leaves.  A  stronger  heat  was  then 
applied,  the  mercury  was  volatilised,  and  the  gold  left  perfectly  adhe- 
rent." Japanese  accounts  add  that  tonoko  (freestone  powder)  was 
mixed  with  the  mercury  for  application  to  the  surface  of  the  metal ; 
that  the  process  of  plating  was  repeated  two,  three,  and  even  four 
times,  and  that  polishing  with  tonoko  was  finally  resorted  to.  They 
also  mention  another  method:  the  metal,  having  been  boiled  in  lye, 

370 


APPENDIX 

was  carefully  polished,  first  with  charcoal  and  afterwards  with  emery 
powder,  a  brush  of  split  bamboo  (called  sasara)  being  employed  for 
the  purpose.  It  was  then  immersed  in  plum-juice,  afterwards 
covered  with  a  mixture  of  mercury  and  gold-dust,  and  finally  heated 
to  volatilise  the  mercury.  Polishing  by  friction  with  steel  needles, 
and,  if  necessary,  "  colour-finishing  "  (iroage)  were  the  final  processes. 
These  descriptions  apply  to  silver  plating  also. 

NOTE  32. —  This  statement  indicates  that  refining  processes  of 
great  efficiency  were  adopted  in  Japan.  That  is  the  case  ;  and  con- 
siderable interest  attaches  to  the  fact,  for  these  processes  seem  to 
have  been  devised,  in  great  part,  by  the  Japanese  themselves.  Mr. 
W.  Gowland  says  :  u  When  gold  was  found  to  contain  an  undue 
proportion  of  silver,  it  was  submitted  to  a  curious  process  for  the 
separation  of  the  latter  metal.  It  was  first  reduced  to  a  coarse  pow- 
der by  heating  it  to  near  its  melting-point  and  then  rubbing  it  on  an 
iron  plate  with  a  stone  or  iron  rubber.  The  coarsely  powdered  gold 
was  then  mixed  with  common  salt,  and  a  certain  proportion  of  clay, 
and  piled  up  in  the  form  of  a  cone  on  an  earthen  dish.  The  whole 
was  then  placed  in  a  furnace  containing  charcoal  fuel,  and  was  kept  at 
a  red  heat  for  at  least  twelve  hours,  by  which  means  the  silver  was 
converted  into  chloride.  The  dish  with  its  contents  was  then 
removed,  washed  with  hot  brine  and  water,  the  silver  chloride  was 
dissolved,  and  the  gold  left  in  a  purified  state."  The  test  for  silver  was 
made  with  the  touchstone,  but  the  test  for  copper  was  effected  by  a 
method  "  unique  in  assaying  operations."  The  metal  was  heated  to 
redness  over  a  charcoal  fire,  and  when  at  the  proper  temperature,  was 
rubbed  with  a  stick  of  binoki  (the  wood  of  the  Tbaya  obtusa)  and  then 
immersed  in  water.  The  presence  of  copper  and  its  approximate 
amount  were  determined  by  the  colour  and  appearance  presented  by 
the  part  to  which  the  stick  of  wood  had  been  applied.  So  successful 
were  the  old  operators  in  the  application  of  this  test  that  it  is  rare  to 
find  more  than  0.25  to  0.35  per  cent  of  copper  in  the  old  gold  coins. 
If  the  test  showed  an  excess  of  copper,  it  was  removed  by  cupellation 
with  lead. 

NOTE  33.  —  In  the  case  of  gold  this  was  effected  by  painting  the 
object  with  a  mixture  of  iron  sulphate,  copper  sulphate,  potassium 
nitrate,  calcined  sodium,  chloride  and  resin,  made  into  a  paste  with 
water.  It  was  then  carefully  heated  on  a  grating  over  a  charcoal 
fire,  subsequently  immersed  in  a  solution  of  common  salt  and  then 
washed  with  water,  the  silver  being  dissolved  out  of  the  upper  layer 
of  the  alloy  and  a  surface  of  pure  gold  left  (Gowland).  In  practice, 
the  kinzokushi  obtained  his  nitrate  of  potash  by  using  gunpowder.  In 
the  case  of  silver,  the  following  interesting  account  is  given  by  Mr. 

371 


APPENDIX 

Gowland  :  "  When  bars  of  debased  silver  (i.e.  silver  containing  undue 
proportions  of  copper)  were  cast,  a  practice  which  unfortunately  was 
not  seldom  followed,  even  in  the  old  mints  —  especially  for  commer- 
cial bars — if  the  military  rulers  of  the  country  were  in  need  of 
money,  a  special  mode  of  procedure  was  adopted.  The  silver  was 
poured  into  canvas  moulds,  which  were  set  in  troughs  of  hot  water, 
the  reason  for  this  being  that  the  alloy  contained  so  much  copper 
that,  if  cast  in  the  ordinary  way,  the  bars  would  be  coated  with  a 
black  layer  of  oxide  from  the  action  of  oxygen  of  the  air  on  the  cop- 
per, and  this  was  difficult  to  remove.  By  placing  the  moulds  under 
water  this  oxidation  was  prevented,  and  castings  with  a  clear  metallic 
surface  were  obtained.  The  bars  were,  however,  of  a  coppery  hue, 
and  this  required  removal.  They  were  therefore  heated  to  redness 
over  a  charcoal  fire,  and  then  plunged  into  vinegar  —  made  from  the 
juice  of  unripe  plums  —  containing  common  salt  in  solution.  After 
digestion  in  this  for  some  hours,  they  were  washed  with  water  and 
then  boiled  in  plum  vinegar  without  salt  for  one  or  more  hours, 
when  they  were  washed  with  boiling  water  and  dried.  By  these 
operations  the  copper  in  the  alloy  was  removed  from  the  surface  lay- 
ers and  a  coating  of  pure  silver  left." 

NOTE  34.  —  Professor  Rein,  in  his  great  work  "  The  Industries  of 
Japan,"  describes  the  method  adopted  by  the  celebrated  artist  Goro- 
saburo  of  Kyoto  to  produce  a  dark  coffee-brown  patina  on  copper 
and  bronze  :  "  Equal  weights  of  green  vitriol,  copper  vitriol,  and 
sulphur  are  mixed  with  water.  The  copper  article  is  then  dipped  in 
this  bath,  which  must  be  often  stirred  on  account  of  the  finely  dis- 
tributed sulphur,  and  then  rinsed  in  a  second  bath  prepared  in  the 
same  way  but  very  much  thinner.  This  process  is  repeated  until  the 
necessary  corrosion  is  recognised  by  long  practice.  The  vessel  is 
then  brought  to  the  brazier  and  heated  on  an  iron  grate,  whose  bars 
are  from  eight  to  twelve  centimeters  distant  from  each  other,  and 
with  frequent  turning.  In  order  not  to  endanger  the  soldering,  these 
bars  are  sprinkled  from  time  to  time  with  water  in  which  kariyasu 
(Calamagrostis  hakonesis)  has  been  boiled.  The  vessel  is  now  rubbed 
with  a  cloth ;  then  painted  lightly  with  lacquer,  rubbed  again  with  the 
cloth,  painted  once  more,  and  now  heated  until  the  sprinkled  kariyasu 
water,  rolling  away  in  balls,  indicates  the  amount  of  heat.  The 
copper  article  is  then  taken  from  the  grate  with  a  pair  of  tongs  and 
coated  with  a  mixture  of  raw  lac  and  lamp-black.  It  is  then  heated 
again  up  to  the  point  where  the  water  rolls  away  in  balls,  brushed 
over  and  painted  anew  with  the  lac  mixture,  and  so  on,  till  colour 
and  lustre  have  the  desired  shade,  whereupon  the  work  is  finished 
and  the  article  is  set  aside  for  a  second  cooling." 

372 


APPENDIX 

NOTE  35.  — In  bon-zbgan,  or  true  inlaying,  a  distinction  is  made  be- 
tween hira-zogan  (flat  inlaying),  where  the  inlaying  is  level  with  the 
surface  of  the  field,  and  taka-zbgan  (relief  inlaying),  where  the  out- 
lines of  the  inlaid  design  are  in  slight  relief. 

NOTE  36. —  M.  Gonse,  in  L?  Art  "Japonais,  dismisses  the  Goto 
family  in  a  single  paragraph,  and  sums  up  their  style  thus :  Leurs 
decors  sont  monotones  poncifs  et  (fun  gout  un  peu  chinois ;  leur  invention 
est  pauvre. 

NOTE  37.  —  There  are  some  misapprehensions  among  European 
collectors  with  regard  to  this  part  of  the  subject.  Errors  of  date  are 
seldom  of  much  importance  in  such  matters,  but  occasionally  they 
are  worth  noticing  when  they  affect  the  history  of  the  art's  develop- 
ment. Thus  M.  Gonse  depicts,  among  the  oldest  guards  to  which 
he  refers,  one  by  Toshiharu  (of  Yedo),  and  assigns  it  to  the  end  of 
the  fifteenth  century.  But  Toshiharu  was  one  of  the  "  Three  Mas- 
ters "  of  the  Nara  family,  and  worked  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  seven- 
teenth century.  Again,  M.  Gonse  puts  Kaneiye  at  the  close  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  whereas  he  flourished  a  hundred  years  later.  He 
also  shows  a  guard  by  Nagayoshi  (of  Yamashiro)  —  "  incrusted  with 
bronze  and  gold  of  different  tones,"  having  a  design  of  monkeys  and 
a  vase  of  flowers  —  which,  according  to  M.  Gonse,  shows  plain 
evidence  of  Persian  influence,  and  in  that  context  the  French  critic 
explains  that  Namban-tetsu  means  "  iron  of  Persia."  Now  this 
guard  belongs  to  a  comparatively  modern  class  known  in  Japan  as 
Heian-tsuba  (guards  of  Heian),  and  justly  condemned  as  most  in- 
ferior specimens.  They  have  no  connection  with  any  chapter  of  the 
art's  history,  but  simply  represent  bad,  vulgar  workmanship.  The 
design  is  borrowed  from  a  Chinese  picture.  As  for  the  term  Namban- 
tetsu,  it  has  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  Persia,  but  was  formerly 
applied  to  all  iron  imported  from  Occidental  countries.  The  guard 
referred  to  by  M.  Gonse  bears  the  date  "  1498,"  but  that  seems  to  be 
a  capricious  addition  on  the  part  of  the  maker.  He  might  with  equal 
truth  have  written  "  1948."  Further,  speaking  of  the  use  of  trans- 
lucid  enamels  in  the  decoration  of  sword-furniture,  the  same  author 
accredits  the  innovation  to  Kunishiro,  whom  he  places  at  the  end  of 
the  sixteenth  century.  Kunishiro  was  an  insignificant  workman  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  There  is  no  record  of  his  having  employed 
vitrifiable  enamels  for  such  a  purpose,  and  if  he  did,  he  had  been  long 
anticipated  by  the  Hirata  family.  M.  Gonse  also  makes  Kinai  of 
Yechizen  a  contemporary  of  Nobuiye,  and  puts  them  both  at  the 
end  of  the  sixteenth  century.  But  Nobuiye  flourished  in  the  first 
part  of  that  century,  and  the  great  Kinai  in  the  second  half  of  the 
seventeenth.  These  comments  are  made  simply  in  the  interests  of 

373 


APPENDIX 

accuracy,  and  not  with  any  intention  of  criticising  an  author  whose 
knowledge,  considering  the  circumstances  under  which  it  was  ac- 
quired, must  be  pronounced  remarkable,  and  who  has  brought  so  much 
light  to  bear  on  every  branch  of  Japanese  art. 

NOTE  38.  —  Runinaga  and  Yoshishige  are  described  by  tradition 
as  the  first  really  skilled  artists  of  Kaga.  Their  personal  names 
were  respectively  Jiro  and  Goro,  and  their  carvings  were  known  as 
Jiro-saku  and  Goro-saku. 

NOTE  39.  — A  kozuka  by  Toshihisa  was  sold  fifty  years  ago  for  a 
sum  which  would  now  represent  1200  yen.  It  was  made  of  iron,  and 
the  design,  chiselled  in  high  relief,  represented  the  Chinese  celebrities 
Liu  Pei,  Chu  Koh-liang,  and  Kwan  Yu. 

NOTE  40.  —  Not  to  be  confounded  with  the  Okamoto  family  of 
Kyoto,  founded  by  Harukuni  in  1740,  the  second  representative 
of  which  is  the  celebrated  Naoshige,  known  in  the  art  world  as 
"  Tetsugen." 

NOTE  41.  —  The  meagre  nature  of  the  information  contained  in 
Japanese  records  with  regard  to  the  Kinai  experts  is  remarkable. 
They  are  spoken  of  merely  as  "  Kinai,"  neither  their  family  names 
nor  their  dates  being  given.  The  writer  of  these  notes  caused  spe- 
cial investigations  to  be  made  in  Yechizen,  and  found  that  the  first 
Kinai  was  called  Ishikawa,  the  second  Takahashi,  and  that  the  family 
was  a  branch  of  the  Miyochin.  The  tomb  of  Ishikawa  Kinai  shows 
that  he  died  in  1680,  and  that  of  Takahashi  Kinai,  that  he  died  in 
1696.  There  is  in  Yechizen  a  tradition  that  the  feudal  chief  of  the 
province  ordered  the  second  Kinai  to  carve  a  pair  of  iron  menuki  in 
the  shape  of  mandarin  ducks.  Kinai  did  not  complete  the  work 
until  three  years  had  passed,  and,  almost  immediately  afterwards,  one 
of  the  menuki  was  lost  during  the  chiePs  journey  to  Yedo.  Kinai, 
being  required  to  replace  the  missing  menuki,  chiselled  a  substitute  in 
one  day,  and  was  then  severely  rebuked  for  having  previously  taken 
three  years  to  accomplish  a  work  which  could  easily  have  been  finished 
in  as  many  days.  His  answer  was  :  "  Put  those  two  menuki  in 
water  and  observe  the  difference."  That  being  done,  the  new  me- 
nuki sank  at  once,  but  the  original  one  floated,  so  delicately  had  it  been 
chiselled. 

NOTE  42.  — It  has  been  found  by  measurement  that  lines  cut  in 
guards  of  iron  shakudo^  etc.,  have  a  width  not  exceeding  3/100  of 
an  inch.  The  tool  used  for  such  work  is  scarcely  imaginable. 

NOTE  43.  —  Yoshitsugu's  personal  name  was  Kichiji,  and  he  re- 
ceived the  appellation  of  "  Kichiji  Kinai "  from  contemporary  con- 
noisseurs, who  placed  him  on  the  same  level  as  the  great  Kinai. 
NOTE  44.  —  Not  to  be  confounded  with  Masu-ya.     There  were 

374 


APPENDIX 

four  well-known  experts  whose  ateliers  went  by  the  name  of  Masu- 
ya.  They  were,  Uyemura  Kuninaga  (1680),  of  Kyoto,  known  as 
"  Masu-ya  Kuhei ; "  Uyemura  Kichibei,  of  Kyoto,  known  as 
u  Masu-ya  Kichibei ; "  Torii  Jokwo,  of  Osaka,  known  as  Masu-ya 
Uhei;  and  Uyemura  Munemine  (1720),  or  Masu-ya  Kihei. 

NOTE  45.  —  Miidera  is  the  name  of  a  famous  temple  on  the  shore 
of  Lake  Biwa  in  Omi.  An  autumn  evening  on  the  lake  while  the 
bell  of  the  temple  tolls  is  one  of  the  "  Eight  Views  "  of  Omi. 

NOTE  46.  —  One  of  Joi's  guards  (shakudo)  carries  the  picture 
known  as  Munetaka  no  Matsu.  On  the  face,  Yoshitsune,  in  full 
armour,  rides  to  his  final  victory  over  the  Taira  ;  on  the  reverse,  a 
troop  of  armed  men  with  halberds  and  banners,  appear  partially  above 
the  rim  of  the  guard  so  as  to  suggest  distance  and  numbers.  This 
guard  was  sold  forty  years  ago  to  a  Japanese  provincial  magnate  for 
the  equivalent  of  about  500  yen  in  the  currency  of  the  present  time. 

NOTE  47.  — The  attention  of  collectors  should  be  drawn  to  one 
point  connected  with  the  Hamano  experts.  It  is  that  among  the 
eleven  art  names  used  by  Shozui,  four  (Otsuriuken,  Miboku,  Rifudo^ 
and  Kankyo)  appear  upon  the  works  of  Masanobu,  and  two  (Otsuriu- 
ken  and  Miboku)  upon  the  works  of  Norinobu.  Thus  a  specimen 
cannot  be  exactly  identified  merely  because  it  bears  one  or  more  of 
these  names.  Another  point  is  that  Masayoshi,  a  pupil  of  Shozui, 
was  called  "  Shozui  Bozu  "  (old  man  Shozui),  and  being  exceptionally 
skilful  as  an  imitator  of  old  masterpieces,  did  not  hesitate  to  copy  the 
works  of  his  teacher  and  to  mark  them  Shozui. 

NOTE  48.  —  These  details  were  first  published  by  Mr.  W. 
Gowland. 

NOTE  49.  —  It  is  related  of  Hidari  Jingoro  that  when  a  friend 
recommended  him  to  exercise  more  caution  with  the  view  of  emerg- 
ing from  a  condition  of  extreme  poverty,  he  replied,  "  Pleasure  lies 
hidden  in  poverty.  Does  not  the  plum  blossom  in  snow  ? " 

NOTE  50.  —  This  was  called  nata-gake^  nata  being  the  term  for 
hatchet. 

NOTE  51.  —  Round  the  four  sides  of  a  Japanese  chamber,  at  a 
height  of  six  feet,  runs  a  horizontal  beam  of  finely  grained  knotless 
timber,  nailed  at  intervals  to  similar  vertical  beams.  The  beauty  of 
the  timber  being  a  cardinal  feature,  it  is  necessary  to  conceal  the  nail- 
heads.  That  is  effected  by  fastening  over  them  pieces  of  metal 
chiselled  in  various  shapes  and  designs. 

NOTE  52.  —  The  mirror  is  said  to  have  belonged  to  the  Emperor 
Shomu. 

NOTE  53.  —  Mr.  Bowes  maintained  his  views  with  remarkable 
firmness.  No  Japanese  collection,  public  or  private,  contained  any 

375 


APPENDIX 

specimen  of  the  wares  which  he  supposed  to  have  been  produced 
and  preserved  in  temples  and  noblemen's  residence  during  nearly 
three  centuries.  No  Japanese  connoisseur  had  any  knowledge  of 
such  objects  having  been  manufactured  previously  to  1837.  All 
the  circumstances  under  which  their  production  had  commenced  at 
the  latter  date,  were  well  known  and  had  been  officially  recorded. 
The  artisan  who  had  originated  the  work  was  living  and  had  received 
a  reward  from  the  Government  for  his  invention.  Some  of  the 
specimens  which  Mr.  Bowes  attributed  to  the  seventeenth  century 
were  unhesitatingly  identified  by  artisans  of  the  present  time  as  their 
own  work,  and  the  signatures  which  certain  of  these  specimens  bore 
were  claimed  by  the  men  who  had  actually  signed  them.  But  none 
of  these  things  shook  Mr.  Bowes'  faith.  He  thought  that  he  could 
detect  in  the  wares  themselves  technical  evidence,  or  signs  of  wear 
and  tear,  justifying  his  theory,  and  he  clung  to  that  theory  with  a 
tenacity  which,  considering  the  testimony  on  the  other  side,  is 
probably  unique. 

NOTE  54.  —  A  possible  exception  is  a  Koto  (musical  instrument) 
said  to  have  belonged  to  the  poet  Chomei  in  the  twelfth  century.  It 
has  mosaics  of  cloisonne  enamel  on  the  face  and  sides. 

NOTE  55.  —  Kaji  supposed  that  the  specimen  was  Dutch.  There 
can  be  little  doubt  that  it  was  a  Chinese  enamel  imported  by  the 
Dutch  at  Nagasaki. 

NOTE  56.  —  It  will  be  at  once  understood  that  such  a  method,  to 
be  successful,  implies  great  command  of  coloured  pastes.  Indeed, 
no  feature  of  enamel  manufacture  is  more  conspicuous  than  the 
progress  made  by  the  Japanese  in  that  respect  during  the  past  twenty 
years  (1880— 1900),  and  much  of  it  is  due  to  the  assistance  of  a 
profoundly  skilled  German  expert,  the  late  Dr.  Waagener. 

NOTE  57.  — It  is  a  mere  accident  that  the  representatives  of  the 
Kyoto  and  Tokyo  schools  are  both  called  Namikawa.  There  is  no 
relationship.  Moreover,  the  Kyoto  Namikawa  is  himself  an  expert 
of  the  highest  skill ;  the  Tokyo  Namikawa  is  only  an  enterprising 
and  resourceful  employer  of  experts. 

NOTE  58.  —  In  connection  with  the  question  of  technical  processes 
a  fact  of  some  interest  may  be  mentioned.  Up  to  the  year  1890  the 
cloisons  were  attached  to  the  base  with  solder  which,  when  repeatedly 
exposed  to  the  heat  of  the  furnace,  showed  a  tendency  to  "  boil," 
thus  causing  holes  in  the  enamel.  Hence  it  often  happened  that 
vases  or  plaques  upon  which  great  labour  had  been  expended,  were 
found  to  be  disfigured  by  pittings  and  scars  when  they  finally  emerged 
from  the  fire.  These  defects  were  usually  hidden  with  wax,  the 
result  being  that  a  specimen  showing  a  glossy  uniform  surface  at  the 

376 


APPENDIX 

time  of  purchase,  was  subsequently  found  to  lose  its  lustre  and 
develop  unaccountable  blemishes.  From  1890,  when  the  choicest 
kinds  of  enamels  began  to  be  manufactured,  a  glue  obtained  from  the 
root  of  the  orchid  (ran)  was  substituted  for  brass  solder,  the  danger 
of  flaws  being  thus  avoided  at  some  expense  of  durability. 

NOTE  59.  — The  most  scientific  and  exhaustive  information  with 
respect  to  lacquer  manufacture  is  to  be  found  in  the  "  Industries  of 
Japan  "  by  Professor  Rein,  who  studied  the  processes  by  engaging  in 
them  with  his  own  hands.  The  practical  experience  he  thus  gained, 
supplemented  by  scientific  knowledge,  enabled  him  to  publish  the 
first  really  satisfactory  monograph,  to  which  free  recourse  has  been 
made  for  the  details  here  given. 

NOTE  60. — The  process  of  evaporating  the  moisture  is  constantly 
seen  in  the  streets  of  cities.  The  lac  is  put  into  large  pans,  and 
these  being  placed  in  an  inclined  position,  their  contents  are  stirred 
for  several  hours  with  a  large  spatula. 

NOTE  61. — The  drying  of  lacquer  is  not  effected  by  heat:  a 
damp,  cool  atmosphere  is  essential.  The  object  is  usually  enclosed 
in  a  wooden  chest  of  which  the  sides  and  cover  have  been  saturated 
with  water. 

NOTE  62.  —  Many  collectors  have  been  betrayed  into  purchasing, 
as  genuine  tsui-shu,  specimens  which  are  simply  carved  wood  overlaid 
with  red  lacquer,  in  the  manner  of  the  Kamakura-bori  mentioned  in 
the  text.  Note  must  also  be  taken  of  imitation  tsui-shu,  of  which  the 
surface  is  a  putty,  —  composed  of  lacquer,  ochre,  glue,  and  wheat- 
flour, —  having  a  decorative  design  impressed  on  it.  This  kind  of 
lacquer  is  largely  applied  to  articles  of  wood  or  porcelain,  such  as 
trays,  tobacco-boxes,  vases,  lecterns,  etc. 


377 


INDEX 


379 


INDEX 


A  JOUR,  early  use  of  chiselling,  74 ; 
bronze  castings,  1 40 ;  develop- 
ment of  chiselling,  277—282. 

Akao  family,  sword-decorators,  281. 

Aki,  Miyochin,  armourer,  263. 

Alcove  recess,  decorative  purpose  of 
picture  in,  3. 

Alloys  used  in  Japanese  art,  23  2-236, 
317;  antimony  ware,  318.  See 
also  Bronze. 

Amida,  seventh-century  bronze  statue 

of,  79- 

Anami  Kwoyetsu,  lacquerer,  346, 
360. 

Anatomy,  Japanese  art  attitude,  8, 
33,  57,  200. 

Anderson,  William,  on  Chinese  pic- 
torial art,  24—26;  on  the  Japanese 
Classical  school,  39  ;  on  an  ancient 
mural  painting,  152. 

Aoki  family,  sword- decorators,  269. 

Applied  art,  Shoso-in  collection,  20, 
87—89  ;  first  evidence,  72;  shrines, 
115;  religious  monopoly,  135; 
rise  of  secular,  135.  See  also 
Bronze,  Enamel,  Interior  decora- 
tion, Iron,  Lacquer,  Metal- 
work,  Sculpture,  Sword-furniture. 

Arakawa  Reiun,  wood-carver,  202. 

Araki  Kwampo,  painter,  63. 

Architecture,  character  of  early  Bud- 
dhist temples,  148.  See  also  In- 
terior decoration. 

Ariyoshi  Nagato-nli-Sho,  mask-carver, 
168. 

Armour,  beginning  of  decoration,  74, 
205  ;  Yoshitsune's,  205. 

BELLS,  ancient,  72,  99;  tone,  99, 
101  ;  dimensions,  100;  metal, 


Bells  (continued}: 

101  ;  proportions,  102  ;  form, 
103  ;  decoration,  103  ;  method  of 
hanging,  103. 

Bowes,  J.  L.,  mistake  on  Japanese 
enamels,  331,  375. 

Boya  Magojiuro,  mask-carver,  166. 

Bronze,  Japanese,  introduction  of  cast- 
ing, 70;  use  in  weapons,  71  ; 
stone  moulds,  7 1  ;  early  mirrors 
and  bells,  72,  96 ;  method  of 
constructing  early  statues,  75  ; 
early  temple  ornaments  and  deco- 
rations, 78  ;  statues  of  the  seventh 
century,  79  ;  introduction  of  the 
cire-perdue  process  of  casting,  80  ; 
Nara  Daibutsu,  85,  132-134; 
objects  in  the  Shoso-in  collection, 
88,  89;  temple  bells,  99—104; 
gongs,  104;  Kamakura  Daibutsu, 
III,  114,  120;  composition, 
125;  quality,  127;  yellow,  128; 
process  of  casting,  129—134;  Na- 
goshi  family  of  art  founders,  136— 
138;  development  of  casting  in 
Tokugawa  epoch,  139-141  ;  fora 
140;  manufacture  of  parlour 
bronzes,  141—144;  modern  cast- 
ings, 144-147;  Occidental  influ- 
ence, 147  ;  relation  of  the  sculptor 
and  founder,  148.  See  also  Fine 
Arts,  Sculpture. 

Bronze  age  in  Japan,  70. 

Brush,  Japanese  painting,  1 1 . 

Buddhism,  influence  on  Japanese  art, 
17-19,  29,  75,  82,  106,  119- 
125;  influence  on  Chinese  art, 
21  ;  character  of  religious  paint- 
ings, 30;  religious  zeal  of  em- 
perors, 1 08  ;  temples  monopolise 


INDEX 


Buddhism  (continued) : 

sculptures,  117;  character  of  early 
temples,  148-150;  ceremonial 
splendour,  149. 

Buncho,  chromo-xylographer,  50. 

Bunrin,  painter,  62. 

Bunzo,  mask-carver,  165. 

Buto     Gempachi,     sword-decorator, 

3°3- 
Button     for     girdle-pendants.       See 

Netsuke. 

CARICATURES,  character  of  Japanese, 
36. 

Castings.      See  Bronze,  Iron. 

Chamberlain,  B.  H.,  on  Japanese 
pictorial  art,  15. 

Champleve,  variety  of  enamel  decora- 
tion, 327.  See  also  Enamel. 

Chiaroscuro.     See  Light  and  shade. 

Chigusa,  mask-carver,  166. 

Chikanobu.     See  Izeki  Jirozaemon. 

Chikudo  Ganki.     See  Ganki. 

China,  relation  to  Japanese  art,  1 6— 
24,  37-40,  78,  367  ;  prehistoric 
contact  with  Japan,  98  ;  character 
of  sculpture,  119. 

Chiselling,  varieties  of  chisels,  229  ; 
methods,  241-243,  247,  274. 
See  also  Metal-work,  Sculpture, 
Sword-furniture. 

Chiyo  family,  sword-decorators,  286 

Ch5  Dense.     See  Meicho. 

Choan,  Koami,  lacquerer,  360. 

Chobunsai,  chromo-xylographer,  50 

Choen,  sculptor,  1 1  o. 

Chohei,  lacquerer,  363. 

Choho,  Koami,  lacquerer,  361. 

Chokyu,  Koami,  lacquerer,  361. 

Chosei,  sculptor,  110. 

Choshiu  province,  school  of  sword- 
decorators,  279. 

Choshun,  sculptor,  no. 

Choun  Yasuyoshi,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Chromo-xylography.      See  Wood. 

Chuen,  sculptor,  no. 


Civilisation,  Japanese,  European  at- 
titude toward,  I  ;  gradual  influence 
of  the  Occident  before  the  Revo- 
lution of  1867,  65  ;  ancient,  in- 
dustrial rather  than  agricultural, 
69 ;  prehistoric  contact  with 
China  and  Korea,  98  ;  art  instinct, 
177;  attitude  toward  art  and  na- 
ture, 225-227. 

Classical  school  of  pictorial  art,  char- 
acteristics, 3  8-40  ;  branches,  40. 
See  also  Kose  school,  Pictorial  art. 

Clay  statues,  technique,  84 ;  famous, 
86.  See  also  Sculpture. 

Cloisonne,  variety  of  enamel  decora- 
tion, 327.  See  also  Enamel. 

Colour  in  art,  Chinese  use,  22,  24;  in 
religious  pictures,  30  ;  in  decora- 
tions of  the  Kano  school,  42;  hand- 
coloured  prints,  47  ;  development 
of  chromo-xylographs,  48—50  ; 
Japanese  knowledge  and  use,  56, 
1 60;  in  interior  decorations,  159. 

Conder,  J.,  on  character  of  Japanese 
decorative  designs,  158. 

Copper,  use  in  sword-decorating,  236. 

Costumes.     See  Sage-mono. 

DAIBUTSU,  Nara,  85,  132-134; 
Kamakura,  in,  114,  120. 

Dansho,  mask-carver,  166. 

Deme  family,  mask-carvers,  166,  167. 

Dengyo  Daishi,  artist- priest,  29,  109. 

Deva    Kings    (Shi-Tenno),    eighth- 
century  clay  statues  of,  86  ;  (Ni-o) 
temple    Kofuku-ji    statues,     112 
temple  Todai-ji  statues,  113. 

Distemper,  use  in  Japanese  decora- 
tion, 152. 

Docho,  Koami,  lacquerer,  345. 

Door,  panel  paintings,  3. 

Dosei,  Koami,  lacquerer,  345,  361. 

Dragon  in  Japanese  art,  253. 

Drama,  popularity  of  the  No,  162; 
use  of  masks,  163  ;  influence  on 
the  theatre,  164. 

Drawing.      See  Line. 


382 


INDEX 


ECHI  YOSHIFUNE,  mask-carver,  165. 

Economic  condition,  ancient,  69. 

Eishin,  Hidari,  decorative-sculptor, 
161. 

Eitoku,  painter,  42. 

Eiyen,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 

Enamel,  as  sword-decoration,  285; 
composition,  327;  varieties,  327; 
introduction,  328,  329,  332; 
technique,  328,376;  former  uses, 
330-333,  375;  modern  develop- 
ment, 333-340;  Japanese  and 
Chinese,  compared,  340. 

Engraving.     See  Metal,  Wood. 

Ensei,  sculptor,  110. 

Enso,  sculptor,  109. 

Eshin,  sculptor-priest,  109. 

FENOLLOSA,  E.  F.,  on  Japanese  pic- 
torial art,  15. 

Feudalism,  influence  on  Japanese  art, 
38,  in. 

Fine  arts,  Japanese,  genesis,  17—19, 
193  ;  influence  of  Buddhism,  29, 
82,  1 06,  119—125;  continuity  of 
development,  70 ;  character  of 
artists,  156,  161,  318;  instinct, 
177;  attitude  toward  the  nude, 
180;  canons,  191,  203;  consci- 
entiousness, 208  ;  Japanese  attitude 
toward,  225-227,  229;  effect  of 
the  Revolution  of  1867  anc^  a  for- 
eign market,  322—325.  See  a/so 
Bronze,  Enamel,  Interior  decora- 
tion, Lacquer,  Metal-work,  Picto- 
rial art,  Sculpture,  Sword-furni- 
ture. 

Forgery  in  Japanese  fine  arts,  324. 

Fresco  painting  not  employed  by  Jap- 
anese, 152. 

Fujii  family,  sword-decorators,  280. 

Fukurai  Masatomo,  mask -carver, 
1 66. 

Kagan,     figure-sculptor, 


Fukushima 

200. 
Fusayoshi, 

267. 


Miyochin,       armourer 


GANKI,  painter,  62. 

Ganku,  painter,  60. 

Ganku,  sculptor-priest,  no. 

Gekkei,  painter,  62. 

Genjiro.    See  Jirozaemon  Yoshimitsu. 

Genkiu  Mitsufusa,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Genkiu  Mitsunaga,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Genkiu  Mitsushige,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Genkiu  Mitsuzane,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Genre  painting,  development,  44. 

Genri  Toshimitsu,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Genri  Yoshimitsu,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Gensuke  Hidemitsu,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Gensuke  Mitsukira,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Gilding,  method,  370. 

Girdle  pendants.      See  Sage-mono. 

Girls'  fete,  dolls,  194. 

Gold,  use  in  Japanese  art,  74,  229- 
23 1  ;  surfacing  debased,  23  I,  371 ; 
method  of  gilding  with,  370  ;  pro- 
cess of  refining,  371. 

Golden    Pavilion,    decoration,    153, 

369- 

Gongs,  origin,  104;  varieties,  104; 
tone,  105. 

Gonse,  Louis,  on  Japanese  pipe  cases, 
1 90 ;  on  motives  in  sword-deco- 
ration, 227  ;  on  Japanese  lacquer, 
360  ;  on  the  Goto  family,  373  ; 
misapprehensions  on  sword-decora- 
tors, 373. 

Gorobei,  sword- decorator,  287. 

Goto  family,  sword-decorators,  212, 
219—225,  298;  skill  and  motives 
of  early  masters,  252—260,  373  ; 
art  influence,  260,  261,  272; 
branches,  299. 

Gowland,  W.,  on  quality  of  Japanese 
bronze,  127;  on  method  of  cast- 

383 


INDEX 


Gowland  (continued}  : 

ing  bronze,  129-132;  on  Japanese 

alloys,    232,    235  ;  on  method  of 

gilding,  370;  on  refining  processes, 

371;  on  "  surfacing  "  metals,  371. 
Graining  of  metals  for  art  use,  245- 

247  ;  origin,  262. 
Greek  art  and  Japanese  art/ 1 7-1 9, 

78,  80,  119-122,  124,  368  ;  and 

Chinese  art,  21. 
Guard,  sword,  219;  development  of 

decoration,   250,   261-265,    277; 

materials,  265. 
Gunkei,  mask-carver,  166. 
Guri-boriy  variety  of  metal  decoration, 

247. 
Gyogi,  sculptor-priest,  81. 

HADAGORO,  lacquerer,  345,  360. 
Hamano     family,     sword-decorators, 

29*»  3°3»  3°6>  375- 

Hammering  of  metal,  312. 

Han  Kan,  Chinese  artist,  22. 

Hanzan,  lacquerer,  363. 

Hanzo.      See  Hokan  Mitsunao. 

Hanzo  Yasukore,  Deme,  mask-carver, 
167. 

Hara  Yoyusai,  lacquerer,  362. 

Haruaki,  Ishiguro,  sword-decorator, 
302. 

Harukuni,  Okamoto,  sword-decora- 
tor, 294. 

Harunari,  Hirata,  sword-decorator, 
285,  308. 

Harunobu,  Suzuki,  chromo-xylog- 
rapher,  49,  50. 

Haruwaka  Tadatsugu,  mask-carver, 
1 66. 

Haruyori.     See  Shunzui. 

Hasegawa  Kumazo,  art-founder,  145, 
147. 

Hashi-ichi,  sculptor,  191. 

Hashimoto  Gaho,  painter,  63  ;  west- 
ern influence  upon,  68. 

Heian  epoch,  and  the  beginning  of 
secular  pictorial  art,  27-29  ;  char- 
acter of  sculpture  in,  106—109. 


Hibi  Munetada,  mask-carver,  165. 
Hidekiyo,    Omori,    sword-decorator, 

3°3-  . 
Hidenori,    Omori,    sword-decorator, 

3°3- 
Hidetomo,   Omori,  sword-decorator, 

3°3- 

Hidetsugu,  lacquerer,  345,  360. 
Hideyori.      See  Shuzui. 
Hideyori,    Omori,    sword-decorator, 

3°3- 
Hideyoshi,   Omori,   sword-decorator, 

.3°3- 
Hideyoski,    the    Taiko,    as    an    art 

patron,    135,    150,    162;    Palace 

of  Pleasure,  270. 
Hien  Wantsz,  sculptor,  81. 
Hikoshiro,   Hirata,  sword-decorator, 

285. 
Hirata  family,  sword-decorators  and 

enamellers,  285,  300,  312,  332. 
Hiroshige,  chromo-xylographer,  50. 
Hirotaka,  painter,  31,  35. 
Hiroyoshi,    Kuwamura,    sword-dec- 
orator, 272. 

Hisayori.      See  Juzui,  Kiuzui. 
Hishigawa  Moronobu,    xylographer, 

46. 

Hogen,  art  title,  117. 
Hoin,  art  title,  1 10. 
Hokan  Mitsunao,  Deme,  mask-carver, 

167. 
Hokke-do   Trinity,  famous  group  of 

dry  lacquer  statues,  86. 
Hokkei,  chromo-xylographer,  50. 
Hokusai,   art  characteristics,   9,    lo; 

chromo-xylographer,     50 ;     traces 

of  Western  influence  upon,  67. 
Hokyo,  art  title,  1 1  o. 
Honjo     Yoshitane,    swordsmith   and 

decorator,  309. 

Horai  Ujitoki,  mask-carver,  166. 
Horu-ji,    temple,    ancient    distemper 

painting  in,  152. 
Hosho  family,  No  dancers,  162. 
Hosono  Masamori,  inlayer,  273. 
Hotokusai,  art-founder,  144. 


384 


INDEX 


Hoy  en,  painter,  62. 
Hozan,  mask-carver,  166. 
Humour  in  Japanese  sculpture,   85. 
See  also  Caricatures. 

ICHIBEI,  Nara,  sword-decorator,  288. 

Ichijo,  Goto,  sword-decorator,  298— 
301  ;  specimens  of  his  work,  307. 

Ichikawa  Hirosuke,  alleged  sword- 
decorator,  218. 

Ideographa,  influence  on  pictorial  art, 
8,  II,  31  ;  helmet  characters, 
262. 

Igarashi  Doho,  lacquerer,  361. 

Igarashi  Shinsai,  lacquerer,  345,  361. 

Illustrations,  freaks,  33  ;  of  the  Tosa 
school,  34  ;  development  of  wood 
engraving,  45-47  ;  hand-coloured 
prints,  47  ;  development  of  col- 
oured prints,  48—5 1  ;  technique  of 
coloured  prints,  51-55.  See  also 
Pictorial  art. 

Imao  Keinen,  painter,  63. 

Inaba-no-suke,  title  used  by  Yoshioka 
family,  283,  284. 

Incho,  sculptor,  lio. 

Inchu,  sculptor,  116. 

Industry  in  ancient  Japan,  69. 

Injin,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 

Injo,  sculptor,  no,  116. 

Inkaku,  sculptor,  no. 

Inken,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 

Inko,  sculptor,  116. 

Inku,  sculptor,  1 16. 

Inlaying,  in  sword-decoration,  220, 
272;  varieties,  243—245;  in- 
serted, 313;  sepia,  315;  ground- 
out,  315. 

Inouye  family, sword-decorators,  286. 

Inro,  girdle  pendant,  original  and 
acquired  use  and  fashion,  173;  its 
cord-clutch,  173;  decoration, 
1 86. 

Insertion  in  metal  work,  313. 

Inshu,  sculptor,  116. 

Inso,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 

Inson,  sculptor,  110. 


Interior  decoration,  decorative  pur- 
pose of  Japanese  pictures,  3,  34, 
42;  growth  of  demand,  32,  42, 
43  ;  seventh-century  temple,  78  ; 
early  use  of  pictorial,  149,  151— 
153;  development  of  sculptured, 
150;  pictorial,  of  the  Golden 
and  Silver  Pavilions,  153;  pictorial 
and  sculptured,  of  Nishi  Hong- 
wan-ji,  1 54  ;  pictorial  and  sculp- 
tured, of  the  Nikko  mausoleum, 
I55~I57>  general  and  particular 
aspects,  157  ;  character  of  designs, 
158;  use  of  colours,  159;  use  of 
metal- carvings,  326. 

Inyu,  sculptor,  1 16. 

Ippitsusai,  chromo-xylographer,  50. 

Iron,  displaces  bronze  in  swords,  71; 
ancient  bell-shaped  castings  of  un- 
known use,  73  ;  first  manufacture 
of  vessels  of,  136;  tea-ceremonial 
urn  and  its  influence,  136-138; 
in  sword-decoration,  236;  patina, 
237.  See  also  Bronze,  Metal- 
work. 

Iron  age  in  Japan,  70. 

Ishiguro  family,  sword-decorators, 
301,  306. 

Ishikawa  Riuyemon  Shigemasa,  mask- 
carver,  165. 

Isono  family,  metal-carvers  and  in- 
layers,  284. 

Ito  family,  sword-decorators,  282, 
296. 

Ittan.      See  Sanehisa. 

Ittosai,  mask- carver,  165. 

Iwamoto  family,  sword- decorators, 
286,  293,  303,  306. 

Iwasa  Matahei,  painter,  44. 

lyefusa,  Miyochin,  armourer,  267. 

lyemasa,  Nagoshi,  art-founder,   138. 

lyetsugu,  Jiyemon,  art-founder,  141. 

lyeyasu,  Shogun,  mausoleum,  154. 

Izeki  Jirozaemon,  mask-carver,  168. 

Izeki  Kawachi  lyeshige,  mask-carver, 
168. 

Izuka  Toyo,  lacquerer,  362. 


INDEX 


JAKUSHI.     See  Kizayemon. 

Jikan  Yoshimitsu,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  1 66. 

Jimpo,  Nomura, sword-decorator,  287. 

Jingo,  Aoki,  sword-decorator,  269. 

Jingoro,  Hidari,  decorative-sculptor, 
151,  156,  157. 

Jirozaemon  Mitzuteru,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Jirozaemon  Norimitsu,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Jirozaemon  Yoshimitsu,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Jitsuye,  artist-priest,  29. 

Jiunin,  mask-carver,  1 66. 

Jiyemon  family,  art- founders,  141. 

Jochiku,  Isono,  metal-carver,  284. 

Jocho,  sculptor,  107,  no;  record 
of  his  work,  168  ;  titles,  109,  no. 

Joho,  art- founder,  138. 

Joi,  Nara,  sword-decorator,  289 ; 
specimen  of  his  work,  375. 

Jokaku,  sculptor,  in;  his  Deva 
Kings,  113. 

Jokasai,  lacquerer,   363. 

Jokei.     See  Gensuke  Hidemitsu. 

Jomi.      See  Sansho. 

Josei,  art-founder,  138. 

Josetsu,  artist-priest,  37,  40. 

Joshin.      See  Gensuke  Hidemitsu. 

Joshin,  Goto,  sword-decorator,  220, 
259. 

Jotetsu,  Isono,  metal-carver,  285. 

Joun.      See  Oshima  Katsujiro. 

Joyen,  sculptor,  116. 

Joyu,  Nagoshi,  art-founder,  138. 

Jubei,  Aoki,  sword-decorator,  269. 

Jujo,  Goto,  sword-decorator,  223. 

Juzui,  Hamano,  sword-decorator,  303. 

KACHO,  metal-carver,  326. 

Kaga  province  as  an  art  centre,  270. 

Kaikei,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 

Kaji  Tsunekichi,  enameler,  333. 

Kajikawa  Kaijiro,  lacquerer,  362. 

Kakino  Moto-no-Otoma,  sculptor,  81. 

Kakosai,  lacquerer,  363. 


Kaku-no-bo,  mask-carver,  166. 

Kakujo,  sculptor,  no. 

Kakuyu,  Minamoto  no,  caricaturist, 
36. 

Kamakura  epoch.    See  Military  epoch. 

Kambayashi  Rakkiken,  figure-sculptor, 
200. 

Kame,  art-founder,  142. 

Kameyama  Yasutomo,  art-founder, 
141. 

Kamparu  family,  No  dancers,  162. 

Kan-Kan.     See  Han  Kan. 

Kanaoka,  Kose  no,  painter,  Chinese 
influence  on,  16,  22;  position,  28; 
style,  28;  no  surviving  pictures, 
28  ;  and  the  Kose  school,  34. 

Kanashi,  sculptor,  80. 

Kanaya,  metal-carver,  270. 

Kanaya  Gorosaburo,  art-founder,  145. 

Kanazawa  as  an  art  centre,  271. 

Kaneiye,  sword-decorator,  250,  266. 

Kaneko  family,  sword-decorators,  286. 

Kano  Natsuo,  sword-decorator,  309. 

Kano  school  of  pictorial  art,  branch 
of  the  Classical  school,  40  ;  devel- 
opment of  the  decorative  method, 
42.  See  also  Pictorial  art. 

Kansai,  chromo-xylographer,  5 1 . 

Kansai,  Koma,  lacquerer,  362. 

Kansei,  sculptor,  109. 

Kany en,  sculptor,  116. 

Kashiwaya  Nagatsune,  metal- carver, 
295. 

Kasuga  Motomitsu,  painter,  alleged 
founder  of  the  Yamato  school,  32, 

33- 

Kasuga  Tori,  mask-carver,  1 66. 

Kasuga  school  of  pictorial  art,  33. 
See  also  Pictorial  art,  Yamato  school. 

Kata-kiri  style  of  incised  chiselling, 
274. 

Katsugi  Uji-iye,  sword-decorator, 
272. 

Katsukawa  Shunsho,  chromo-xylog- 
rapher, 50. 

Katsukawa  Shunyei,  chromo-xylog- 
rapher, 50. 


386 


INDEX 


Katsumasa,  Hidarf,  decorative-sculp- 
tor, 161. 

Kawabata  Gyokusho,  painter,  63. 

Kawanari,  painter,  traditional  skill 
and  originality,  27. 

Kawanobe  Itcho,  lacquerer,  363. 

Kawarabayashi  Hidekuni,  sword- 
decorator,  310. 

Kazutomo,   Omori,  sword-decorator, 

303- 
Keibun,  painter,  62. 

Keibunkai,  sculptor,  81. 

Keibunkomi,   sculptor,  81. 

Keijo,  sword -decorator,  224. 

Keisai,  art-founder,  143. 

Kenjo,  Goto,  sword-decorator,  221, 

222. 

Kenyen,  sculptor,  1 1  o. 
Kichijo-in,  mask-carver,  166. 
Kijima  Ippu,  inlay er,  315. 
Kikuchi  Yosai,  painter,  62. 
Kikugawa    Utamaro,    chromo-xylog- 

rapher,  50. 
Kimara,  sculptor,  80. 
Kimimaro,    sculptor,    founder  of  the 

Nara  Daibutsu,   81. 
Kimmochi,  painter,  35. 
Kinai  family,  sword-decorators,   280, 

374- 

Kincbaku,  different  uses,  1 69 ;  method 
of  wearing,  169.  See  also  Sage- 
mono. 

Kinonaga,  Torii,  chromo-xylographer, 
50. 

Kintada,  painter,  35. 

Kishiu,  Miyochin,  armourer,  263. 

Kitagawa  Soden,  sword-decorator, 
283. 

Kitao  Shigemasa,  chromo-xylogra- 
pher, 50. 

Kiuhaku,  Koma,  lacquerer,  361. 

Kiui,  Koma,  lacquerer,  361. 

Kiushiu.      See  Izeki  Jirozaemon. 

Kiuzui,    Hamano,    sword-decorator, 

3°3- 

Kiyohiro,  Torii,  chromo-xylographer, 
48. 


Kiyoji-tate,  shape,  use,  and  decora- 
tion, 192. 

Kiyomasu,  Torii,  chromo-xylogra- 
pher,  48. 

Kiyomitsu,  mask-carver,  165. 

Kiyomitsu,  Torii,  chromo-xylogra- 
pher,  48. 

Kiyonaga,  Torii,  chromo-xylographer, 

5°. 

Kiyonari,  Ishiguro,  sword-decorator, 
302. 

Kiyonobu,  Torii,  chromo-xylogra- 
pher,  48. 

Kiyosai,  chromo-xylographer,  5 1 ; 
on  motion  in  art,  57  ;  as  a  genre 
painter,  62. 

Kiyoshige,  Torii,  chromo-xylogra- 
pher,  48. 

Kizan.     See  Jikan. 

Kizayemon,  sword -decorator,  290. 

Koami  family,  lacquerers,  345,  360, 
361. 

K5ben,  sculptor,  113,  116;  his 
Demon  -lantern-bearers,  113. 

Kobo  Daishi,  artist-priest,  29,  109  ; 
no  surviving  pictures,  30 ;  brings 
pictures  from  China,  367. 

Kocho,  sculptor,  no. 

Kodama  Choyemon  Yoshimitsu,  mask- 
carver,  1 6  8. 

Kodama  Omi  Mitsumasa,  mask- 
carver,  1 6  8. 

Kogai,  origin,  218;  origin  of  decora- 
tion, 251.  See  also  Sword-furni- 
ture. 

Kogitsune,  metal-carver,  282. 

Kogo,  use  and  decoration,  192. 

Koji,  Yamagawa,  sword-decorator, 
J09- 

Kqjo,  sculptor,  no. 

Kokei,  sculptor,  113,  1 1 6. 

Kokitsu,  sculptor,  1 16. 

Koko.      See  Hiroyoshi. 

Koma  family,  lacquerers,  361, 
362. 

Ko-maro,  sculptor,  109. 

Kongo  family,  No  dancers,  162. 


387 


INDEX 


Konju,     Iwamoto,    sword-decorator, 

3°3- 
Konkwan,  Iwamoto,  sword-decorator, 

293- 
Korea,  influence  on  Japanese  art,  1 6— 

19,    76;  prehistoric   contact  with 

Japan,  98. 
Koreo,     Ishiguro,     sword-decorator, 

302. 

Koreshige,  painter,  35. 
Koreshige,  Ishiguro,  sword-decorator, 

302. 
Koretsune,  Ishiguro,  sword-decorator, 

302. 
Koreyoshi,  Ishiguro,  sword-decorator, 

302  ;  specimen  of  his  work,  306. 
Korin,  painter,  62. 
Korin,  sculptor,  116. 
Koriu-ji,    temple,    bronze  statues   of 

seventh  century  in,   79. 
Koriusai,  chromo-xylographer,  50. 
Kose  no  Kanaoka.      See  Kanaoka. 
Kose  school  of  pictorial  art,  Chinese 

style,  34;  object  of  its  work,  36. 

See  also  Pictorial  Art. 
Kosei,  sculptor,  116. 
Koshin,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 
Kosho,   Heian-epoch   sculptor,    107, 

1 10;  titles,    109. 

Kosho,  Military-epoch  sculptor,  116. 
Koshu,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 
Koshun,  sculptor,  116. 
Koson,  sculptor,  116. 
Kotan,  sculptor,  116. 
Koun,    Heian-epoch    sculptor-priest, 

109. 
Koun,  Military-epoch  sculptor-priest, 

1 1 6. 
Koun,     Takamura,     sculptor,     201  ; 

school,  20 1. 

Koushi,  mask-carver,  165. 
Koyei,  sculptor,  116. 
Koyo,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 
Koyu,  sculptor,  1 16. 
Kozuka,    origin    of    wearing,     218; 

origin    of    decoration,     251.     See 

also  Sword-furniture. 


Kubo  Shunman,  chromo-xylographer, 

50. 

Kukai.      See  Kobo  Daishi. 
Kumagaye  Naohiko,  painter,  63. 
Kuninaga,  sword-decorator,  272,  374. 
Kusakari  Kiyosada,  inlayer,  296. 
Kuwamura  family,  sword-decorators, 

271. 
Kwaikei,    sculptor,    ill;   his    Deva 

Kings,    113. 
Kwanjo,  Iwamoto,   sword-decorator, 

203. 
Kwannon,  goddess  of  mercy,  Shoto- 

ku's  statue,  77  ;  wooden  statue  in 

temple  Hokke-ji,  87. 
Kwanri,   Iwamoto,   sword-decorator, 

303. 

Kwanze  family,  No  dancers,  162. 
Kwqjo,  Goto,  sword-decorator,  221, 

222  ;  style,  259. 
Kyoto,  capital  of  Japan,  influence  on 

art  development,  32. 

LACQUER,  statues,  84,  86  ;  qualities, 
341  ;  introduction,  342  ;  develop- 
ment and  use,  343-345,  346, 
349 ;  early  master  lacquerers, 
34  5;  modern  conditions,  349  ; 
technique,  349-354,  377  ;  deco- 
ration, 354-358  ;  special  varieties, 
358-360. 

Lapidary  work,  ancient  Japanese,  92. 

Leather  used  in  girdle-pendants,  170. 

Light  and  shade,  in  Japanese  pictures, 
5»  I5>  30*  59;  in  Chinese  pic- 
tures, 22,  25. 

Line,  in  Japanese  art,  influence  of 
ideographs,  8 ;  styles  of  touch,  9  ; 
influence  of  artist's  position  while 
painting,  12;  precedence,  12,  57, 
58,  229;  in  Chinese  art,  22;  in 
religious  pictures,  30 ;  in  carica- 
tures, 36  ;  development  in  incised 
chiselling,  274. 


MAKUNOSUKE.      See  Choun. 
Mambi.     See  Tosui. 


388 


INDEX 


Manku.      See  Tosui. 

Mannerisms  and  copying  in  Japanese 

pictures,  1 3 . 

Mansho.      See  Kodama  Omi. 
Manual  dexterity  of  Japanese  artists, 

9-1 1. 

Manyei.      See  Genkiu  Mitsunaga. 
Maruyama  Okio,  painter,  founder  of 

the  Shi-jo  school,  59,  60. 
Masachika,    Nara,    sword-decorator, 

289. 
Masaharu,  Ishiguro,  sword-decorator, 

302. 
Masahiro,  Ishiguro,  sword- decorator, 

302. 
Masakiyo,  Ishiguro,  sword-decorator, 

302. 

Masamine,  Koami,  lacquerer,  361. 
Masamitsu.      See  Yeijo. 
Masamune     no      Busshi,      sculptor, 

109. 
Masanaga,     Nara,     sword-decorator, 

288,  289. 
Masanobu,    painter,    founder  of  the 

Kano  school,  40. 
Masanobu,     Nara,    sword-decorator, 

290. 

Masatsugu.     See  Kenjo. 
Masatsune,  art-founder,  143. 
Masatsune,  Ishiguro,  sword-decorator, 

301. 

Masatsune,  Ito,  sword-decorator,  282. 
Masayori,  Hamano,  sword- decorator, 

291. 

Masayoshi,    Ishiguro,    sword- decora- 
tor, 302. 
Masks,   use   in  the  No  dance,    163; 

as  works  of  art,   165  ;  celebrated 

carvers,  165—168. 
Masu-ya,  artists  called,  375. 
Matabei,    Muneta,    sword-decorator, 

268. 

Mataemon,  wood-carver,  1 50. 
Matazayemon,    Muneta,   sword-deco- 
rator,  268. 
Matsumoto  Kisaburo,  figure-sculptor, 

200. 


Mayeda   Toshiiye,    chief  of    Kaga, 

career,  270  ;  art  patron,  271. 
Maze-gane,  process  in  metal  work, 

3H; 

Medicine  box.     See  Inro. 

Meicho,  painter,  31. 

Meishin.     See  Shigeyoshi  (Meishin) . 

Menesuke,  Miyochin,  armourer,  262. 

Menuki,  sword-mount,  origin  of  dec- 
oration, 217,  251.  See  also 
Sword-furniture. 

Metal  work,  early  development  of 
decoration,  74,  78;  in  the  Shoso- 
in  collection,  87-89 ;  inlaying, 
243-245>  2?2  ;  graining,  245- 
247  ;  hammering,  312;  insertion, 
313;  inserted  inlaying,  313; 
maze-gane,  314;  sbibuicbi-dosbi, 
314;  sepia-inlaying,  315;  ground- 
out  inlaying,  315  ;  in  architect- 
ural decoration,  326.  See  also 
Alloys,  Bronze,  Gold,  Iron, 
Sword- furniture. 

Michitaka,  Sok  en  Kisbo  on  sword- 
decoration,  212—225. 

Military  epoch,  virile  character  of 
sculpture,  no;  specimens  of  reli- 
gious sculpture,  111-114. 

Ming  dynasty,  China,  character  of 
pictorial  art,  43. 

Minjo,  sword-decorator,  310. 

Minkoku,  sword-decorator,  310. 

Miroku,  mask-carver,  165. 

Mirrors,  ancient,  72,  96,  368  ;  mag- 
ical, 98;  antiquity,  368. 

Mitsuiye.     See  Kwojo. 

Mitsumasa.      See  Jujo,  Teijo. 

Mitsumori.     See  Keijo. 

Mitsune  Nakai,  sword-decorator,  279. 

Mitsushige.      See  Sojuko. 

Mitsutaka.     See  Yenjo. 

Mitsutoshi.     See  Tsujo. 

Mitsutsugu.      See  Tokujo. 

Miyano,  mask-carver,  166. 

Miyata  Chikugo,  mask-carver,  168. 

Miyochin  family,  armourers,  262, 
267. 

389 


INDEX 


Miyoju.     See  Shigeyoshi  (Miyoju). 

Mizuno  family,  sword-decorators, 
272. 

Mogarashi.     See  Kitagawa. 

Mokunosuke.      See  Tosui  Mitsunori. 

Money -pouch.      See  Kinchaku. 

Monjushiri,  thirteenth-century  statue 
of,  113. 

Mori  Sosen,  painter,  61. 

Moriyoshi,  Kuwamura,  sword-deco- 
rator, 271. 

Morotsugu.     See  Shigehiro. 

Motochska,  sword-decorator,  310. 

Motomichi,  sword-decorator,  3 1  o. 

Motonari,  sword-decorator,  310. 

Motonobu,  painter,  founder  of  the 
Kano  school,  40. 

Muneta  family,  sword-decorators, 
268. 

Muneyuki,  Umetada,  sword-decora- 
tor, 282. 

Myojun,  sculptor-priest,  no. 

NAGAFUSA,  Koami,  lacquerer,  361. 
Nagasaki  as  an  art  centre,  290. 
Nagashige,  Koami,  lacquerer,  361. 
Nagata  Tomoharu,  lacquerer,  362. 
Nagatsune,  Yasui,  metal-carver,  286. 
Nagayoshi  family,   sword-decorators, 

272. 
Nagoshi    family,   art-founders,    136, 

138. 
Naka  Mitsuyuki,  Deme,  mask-carver, 

167. 

Nakai  family,  sword-decorators,  279. 
Nakayama,  Komin,  lacquerer,  362. 
Nakayama  Shoyeki,  art-founder,  142. 
Namikawa  Sosuke,  head  of  a  school 

of  enamelers,  336,  376. 
Namikawa  Yasuyuki,  enameler,  336, 

376. 
Naomichi,  Muneta,  sword-decorator, 

269. 
Naomine,   Muneta,  sword-decorator, 

269. 
Naoshige,   Muneta,  sword- decorator, 

269. 


Naoshige,  Okamoto,  sword-decorator, 

374- 

Nara,  capital  of  Japan,  art  objects, 
1 9  ;  condition  of  pictorial  art  in 
Nara  epoch,  26  ;  civilisation,  8i; 
aspect  of  the  city,  83. 

Nara  Bussbi,  109. 

Nara  family,  sword-decorators,  276, 
289,  305. 

Nara  ningjo,  and  the  netsuke,  175; 
form,  97,  199;  history,  197-199, 
369>  370. 

Nature,  Japanese  attitude  toward,  226. 

Nen  Kawo  and  the  Chinese  renais- 
sance in  Japanese  art,  37. 

Netsuke,  origin,  174-176;  decora- 
tion, 176;  designs  in  decoration, 
177-185,  191;  material,  177; 
criterion  of  value,  181—183,  196; 
form,  185;  uniqueness,  193; 
sculptors,  193,  195-197. 

Nikko,  mask-carver,  165. 

Nikko  mausoleum,  interior  decora- 
tion, 154,  159. 

Ninomiya  Totei,  lacquerer,  362. 

Nishi  Hongwan-ji,  temple,  interior 
decoration,  154. 

Nobuiye,  Miyochin,  armourer, 
sword-guards,  263. 

Nobunaga  as  an  art  patron,  150,  162. 

Nobushige,  painter,  35. 

Nobutsune  Nakai,  sword-decorator, 
279. 

Nobuzane,  painter,  characteristics,  I  o. 

Nogami  Yataro,  art-founder,  145. 

Nomura  Bunkyo,  painter,  63. 

Nomura  family,  sword- decorators, 
286,  287. 

Nude  in  art,  Japanese  attitude  toward, 
7,  125,  178,  180;  Chinese  atti- 
tude toward,  180. 

ODA  NOAKI,  sword-decorator,  310. 
Ogata    Gekko,    chromo-xylographer, 

5i»  63. 

Ogata  Kworin,  lacquerer,  346,  361. 
Ogawa  Ritsuo,  lacquerer,  348,  362. 


39° 


INDEX 


Ogawa  Shomin,  lacquerer,  362. 
Ohori  Masatoshi,  hammerer  of  metal, 

3'2. 

O-i.     See  Wong  Wei. 

Ojime,  fashion,  173. 

Okamoto  family  of  Hagi,  metal- 
carvers,  279,  374. 

Okamoto  family  of  Kyoto,  sword - 
decorators,  294,  374. 

Okamura  Masanobu,  xylographer, 
46,  48. 

Okano  Hohaku,  figure-sculptor,  199. 

Okano  Kijiro,  sword-decorator,  310. 

Okazaki  Sessei,  art-founder,  145. 

Omori  family,  sword- decorators,  292, 
303,  306. 

Omiva  Yamato  Bokunyu,  mask- 
carver,  1 6  8. 

Ono.     See  Jikan. 

Ono  Goroyemon,  sculptor  and 
founder  of  the  Kamakura  Dai- 
butsu,  in. 

Ooka  Shunboku,  xylographer,  46. 

Oshima  Katsujiro,  art-founder,  144. 

Oshima  Yasutaro,  art-founder,  144. 

Ouishi,  art-founder,  138. 

PATINA,  of  bronze,  126,  127,  372  ; 
of  Japanese  alloys,  233,  235  ;  of 
copper,  236,  372;  of  iron,  237; 
of  pewter,  317. 

Perspective,  in  Japanese  pictures,  4, 
15,  58  ;  in  Chinese  pictures,  22, 
25. 

Pewter,  composition,  317;  use,  317; 
patina,  317. 

Pictorial  art,  Japanese,  character,  2 ; 
decorative  purpose,  3,  6  ;  effect 
of  purpose  on  characteristics,  4, 
3  2  ;  impressionistic,  5  ;  motion,  6 ; 
exclusion  of  the  nude,  7  ;  igno- 
rance of  anatomy,  8  ;  influence  of 
ideographs,  8,  II,  31  ;  styles  of 
touch,  9 ;  manual  dexterity,  9— 
1 1  ;  materials,  1 1  ;  position  of  the 
artist  while  painting,  12;  man- 
nerisms, 13  ;  multiplication  of 


Pictorial  art  (continued): 

copies,  1 3  ;  effect  on  criticism  of 
inaccessibility  of  originals,  14;  char- 
acter of  religious  paintings,  15,  23, 
30;  relation  to  Chinese,  16,  21— 
24,  26,  37—40;  influence  of 
Buddhism,  17,  29;  beginning  of 
secular,  27—29  ;  continued  pre- 
cedence of  religious,  29,  30 ; 
technique  of  religious  and  secular, 
31;  first  native  school  of  secular, 
31  ;  Yamato  school,  32,  33  ;  Tosa 
school,  34  ;  Kose  or  Classical 
school,  34;  Takuma  school,  35  ; 
objects  of  the  work  of  these  schools, 
36;  caricatures,  36;  renaissance  of 
Chinese  influence,  37—41  ;  periods 
in  development,  41  ;  development 
of  the  decorative  mode,  42  ;  re- 
action against  the  Classical  school, 
43  >  genre  painting  and  the  Popular 
school,  44;  development  of  wood- 
cuts and  coloured  prints,  45—51  ; 
analysis  of  the  work  of  the  Popular 
school,  55-59;  branches  of  the 
Popular  school,  59-62 ;  present 
conditions,  62-64  J  effect  of  West- 
ern ideas,  64-68  ;  in  architectural 
decoration,  151-155,  158;  an- 
cient distemper  painting,  152;  no 
frescos,  152;  no  portraits,  368. 
See  also  Fine  arts. 

Picture-galleries,  why  none  in  Japan, 
4,  14. 

Popular  school  of  pictorial  art,  devel- 
opment of  genre,  44;  development 
of  xylography,  45-51  ;  Occiden- 
tal popularity,  55  ;  use  of  colour, 
56;  drawing,  57—59;  absence  of 
texture  painting,  58.  See  also 
Pictorial  art. 

Portraits,  statue,  115;  no  pictorial, 
368. 

Puppets  of  Nara.     See  Nara  ningyo. 


RAIJO,  sculptor,  no. 

Refining  metals,  Japanese  process,  371. 


391 


INDEX 


Rein,  J.  J.,  on  patina,  372. 

Relief,  early  designs  in,  72  ;  in 
bronze  castings,  140 ;  origin  and 
development  in  metal-carving, 
220,  249,  261  ;  varieties  in  metal 
carving,  241  ;  in  lacquer,  344. 

Religious  paintings,  Japanese,  15,  23, 
29>  3°  >  technique,  31.  See  also 
Buddhism. 

Renjo,  Goto,  sword -decorator,  223. 

Repousse,  process  in  early  statutes, 
75  ;  in  sword-decoration,  220. 
See  also  Relief. 

Ri-fu-ho,  traditional  carver,  193. 

Rihei,  Yamamoto,  lacquerer,  362. 

Riuki.      See  Nogami. 

Riumin,  sword-decorator,  310. 

Riyoyei,  Iwamoto,   sword-decorator, 

3°3- 

Roben,  artist-priest,  86. 
Rwaiken,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 
Ryokin,  wood-carver,  46. 

SADAHISA,  sword-decorator,  310. 

Sage-mono,  money-pouch,  169—171  ; 
tobacco  outfit,  171,  187—191  ; 
medicine-box,  173,  186;  origin 
of  the  netsuke,  174-176;  its 
decoration,  176— r 86;  en  suite 
designs,  191. 

Saicho.     See  Dengyo  Daishi. 

Sairen,  mask-carver,  1 66. 

Sanehisa,  Nagoshi,  art-founder,  138. 

Sanko,  mask-carver,  165. 

Sanraku,  painter,  42. 

Sansei-sha,  firm  of  art- founders,  144. 

Sansho,  Nagoshi,  art-founder,  138. 

Screen  painting,  3. 

Sculpture,  Japanese,  question  of  foreign 
influence,  19,  76,  78,  89,  193  ; 
superiority,  20  ;  primitive  con- 
ditions, 75;  first  sculptors,  76; 
wooden  images  by  Tori  and 
Shotoku,  77  ;  bronze  statues  of 
seventh  century,  79,  80  ;  sculptors 
of  the  seventh  century,  80  ;  early 
culmination  in  Nara  epoch,  80,  83, 


Sculpture  (continued)  : 

85-89  ;  influence  of  Buddhism, 
82,  83,  106,  117-125;  clay  and 
dry-lacquer  statues,  84 ;  stone 
statues,  90—96  ;  character  of  Heian 
epoch,  106—109;  sculptors  of  the 
Heian  epoch,  109  ;  character  of 
Military  epoch,  110—115;  por- 
trait, 114,  115;  sculptors  of 
the  Military  epoch,  116;  narrow 
range  of  motives,  123  ;  the  nude 
ignored,  125,  1 80;  relation  of  the 
sculptor  and  bronze-caster,  148  ; 
development  of  wood-carving  in 
interior  decorations,  149—151, 
154—161  ;  mask  carving  and  carv- 
ers, 164-168  ;  of  the  netsuke, 
176-186,  193  ;  of  the  inro,  186  ; 
of  the  pipe-case,  1 90  ;  origin  of 
netsuke  carving,  193—196  ;  figure, 
197—200  ;  modern  realism,  200  ; 
modern  Koun  school  of  wood- 
carvers,  201-203  ;  skill  and  de- 
mand in  modern  wood-carving, 
203  ;  Japanese  knowledge  of  lights 
in,  315;  training  of  sculptors, 
3  1 9-3  2 1  ;  source  of  designs,  321. 
See  also  Bronze,  Fine  arts,  Sword- 
furniture. 

Seiami,  lacquerer,  345,  361. 

Seicho,  sculptor,  no. 

Seigai  Kanshichi,  lacquerer,  362. 

Seimin,  art-founder,  142. 

Senshiu  Yoriyoshi,  mask-carver,  1 68. 

Senshu  Yashamaru,  mask-carver,  168. 

Senyen,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 

Sesshiu,  painter,  40. 

Seventh  Avenue  academy  of  sculptors, 
no;  in  Military  epoch,  1 1 6.  See 
also  Sculpture. 

Shadows.      See  Light  and  shade. 

Sbakudo  alloy,  composition,  232, 
233;  antiquity,  232;  properties, 

233- 

Shakuzuru,  mask-carver,  165. 
Shiba  Tachito,   sculptor,   76  ;  builds 

temples,  76. 


392 


INDEX 


Shiba  Tasu-na,  sculptor,  76. 
Shiba  Tori.      See  Tori  Busshi. 
Shibara  I chidayu,  lacquerer,  361. 
Shibata  Zeshin,  lacquerer,  349,  362. 
Shibayama    Dosho,    lacquerer,    357, 

363. 

Sbibuicbi,  composition,  234;  prop- 
erties, 235;  antiquity,  235. 

Shibuichi-doshi,  process  in  metal- 
work,  3  1 4. 

Shichirozayemon,  founder,  136. 

Shigehiro,     Yoshioka,      metal- carver, 

^    283,    284. 

Shigemitsu,  Omori,   sword-decorator, 

,    .29 2- 

Shigetsugu,  Yoshioka,  metal-carver, 
283,  284. 

Shigeyoshi,  Umetada,  sword-decora- 
tor, 267. 

Shigeyoshi  (Meishin),  Umetada, 
sword-decorator,  268. 

Shigeyoshi  (Miyoju),  Umetada, 
sword- decorator,  267. 

Shi-jo  school  of  pictorial  art,  59. 
See  also  Pictorial  art. 

Shikongo,  clay  statue  of,  in  temple 
Todai-ji,  86. 

Shimizu  Rinkei,  mask-carver,  1 66. 

Shinkai  Takejiro,  wood-carver,  202. 

Shirayama  Shoya,  lacquerer,  363. 

Shisho  Daishi,  sculptor-priest,  109. 

Sbitan  wood,  properties  and  use,  369. 

Shoami  Masanari,  lacquerer,  362. 

Shoami  Masanobu,  inlayer,  273. 

Shoami  Nagatsugu,  inlayer,  273. 

Shobei,  Yamamoto,  lacquerer,  361. 

Shoga  Shiubun,  painter,  37,  40. 

Shokaku.     See  Oshima  Katsujiro. 

Shoko,     Iwamoto,     sword-decorator, 

,  -3°3' 

Shokwasai,  lacquerer,  363. 

Shoso-in  collection  of  objects  of  ap- 
plied art,  19,  87-89. 

Shotoku,  Prince,  character,  77  ;  as  a 
sculptor,  77. 

Shoun,  decorative-sculptor,  161. 

Shoun,  mask-carver,  166. 


Shoyemon,  Nomura,  sword-deco- 
rator, 287. 

Shozui.     See  Masayori. 
Shuncho,  chromo-xylographer,  50. 
Shunkei,  sculptor-priest,  116. 
Shunsho,  Yamamoto,  lacquerer,  361. 
Shunzui,   Hamano,   sword-decorator, 

3°3- 

Shuraku,  sword-decorator,  310. 
Shuzan.     See  Tosa  Mitsuoki. 
Shuzui,     Hamano,    sword-decorator, 

,.  3°3' 

Silver,    use    in    Japanese    art,    231; 

surfacing  debased,  231,  372. 
Silver  Pavilion,  decoration,  153. 
Soami  Hisatsugu,  mask-carver,  166. 
Soami  family,  sword-decorators,  269. 
Sohaku,  Koami,  lacquerer,  345,  361. 
Sqjo,    Goto,    sword- decorator,    220, 

222. 

Soju.     See  Shigetsugu. 
Sojuko,  Goto,  sword -decorator,  22-2. 
Sokei,  Koami,  lacquerer,  345,  361. 
Soko,    Hirata,    hammerer    of  metal, 

.   3?2' 

Somin,  art-founder,  143. 

Somin,      Yokoya,      sword-decorator, 

^274-276. 

Sotoku.      See  Shigehiro. 

Soyo,  Yokoya,  sword-decorator,  274. 

Sozen,  Koami,  lacquerer,  345,  361. 

Statues.     See  Bronze,  Sculpture. 

Stone  statues,  mediocre,  90,  93  ;  un- 
satisfactory material,  91,  96  ;  Jap- 
anese skill,  92  ;  ancient  monument, 
92;  buried  effigies,  93;  images, 
94-96. 

Suggestion  in  Japanese  pictures,  5  ; 
in  Chinese  pictures,  23. 

Sukezaemon.  See  Jikan  Yoshimitsu, 
Yukan  Mitsuyasu. 

Sumptuary  laws  on  chromo-xylo- 
graphs,  51. 

Sung  dynasty,  China,  character  of  its 
pictorial  art,  22. 

Surfacing  debased  metals,  231,  371. 

Suwara  Yasugoro,  art-founder,  144. 


393 


INDEX 


Suzuki  Harunobu.     See  Harunobu. 

Suzuki  Gcnsuke,  hammerer  of  metals, 
312;  originates  process  of  inser- 
tion, 313. 

Suzuki  Chokichi,  art-founder,  145. 

Suzuki  Kichigoro,  invents  antimony 
ware,  318. 

Suzuki    Kinyemon,    sword -decorator, 

303. 

Sword -furniture,  Japanese,  early  dec- 
oration, 74 ;  skill  in  decorating, 
207  ;  character  of  decoration,  208  ; 
articles,  210,  211,  217-219, 
250,  251  ;  Japanese  commentary 
on  decoration,  212—225;  Goto 
family  of  decorators,  212,  219— 
225,  252—261  ;  identification  of 
decorators,  212,  213,  219;  styles 
of  metal  ground,  213,  238-241  ; 
grades  of  decorators,  214;  high 
ideals  of  master  carvers,  215,  216; 
antiquity  of  decoration,  217;  tech- 
nical skill  and  motives  in  decora- 
tion, 227-229,  252—260,  288 ; 
chisels  used,  2  29  ;  metals  employed, 
230,  232,  236  ;  methods  of  chisel- 
ling, 241-243,  247,  274;  inlay- 
ing, 243-245,  272;  graining, 
245-247  ;  beginning  of  relief  carv- 
ing, 249;  early  field  of  decoration, 
250-252  ;  development  of  guard 
decoration,  261—265 ;  decoration 
in  the  sixteenth  century,  266-270; 
decoration  in  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, 270-286  ;  enamel  decoration, 
285,  332  ;  decoration  in  the  eigh- 
teenth century,  286—296 ;  decora- 
tion in  the  nineteenth  century  296— 
303,  308-3 1 1 ;  termination  of  pro- 
duction, 297  ;  social  influence  on 
decoration,  304—306;  specimens  of 
nineteenth-century  work,  306—308; 
guild,  310.  See  also  Metal-work. 

Swords,  bronze,  7 1  ;  iron,  7  2  ;  varie- 
ties, 209 ;  disappearance  of  samurai, 
297.  See  also  Sword-furniture. 

Symmetry,  axiom  of,  in  art,  20. 


TACHIBANA  NO  MORIKUMI,    xylogra- 

pher,    46. 

Taiami,  lacquerer,  345,  360. 
Takaichi  Makuni,  sculptor,  8 1. 
Takaichi  Mamaro,  sculptor,  81. 
Takamura     Koun,     sculptor,     201  ; 

school,  20 1. 

Takao-maro,  sculptor,  109. 
Takashima  Takakane,  painter,  34. 
Takatsune,   Soami,  sword-decorator, 

269. 
Takayoshi,      Miyochin,      armourer, 

263. 

Taki  Katei,  painter,  63. 
Takioka  family,  puppet-makers,  370. 
Takuma  Tamenari,    painter,   school, 

35  ;  religious  pictures,  35. 
Takuma   school  of  pictorial  art,   35. 

See  also  Pictorial  art. 
Takusai,  art -founder,  144. 
Tamakaji  Zokoku,  lacquerer,  362. 
Tancho,  decorative-sculptor,  161. 
Tang    dynasty,   China,  character   of 

its  pictorial  art,  22. 
Tankai  Rishi,  mask-carver,  166. 
Tari-maro,  sculptor,  109. 
Taioyemon.     See  Naka. 
Tatsuki  Chobei,  lacquerer,  361. 
Tea-ceremonial,    Hideyoshi's     influ- 
ence, 136;  urns,  136. 
Teijo,  art-founder,  143. 
Teijo,  Goto,  sword-decorator,  222. 
Temmin,  sword-decorator,  310. 
Tenaka    Kiyohisa,    sword-decorator, 

310. 
Teruhide,    Omori,    sword-decorator, 

292. 
Terumasa,   Omori,   sword-decorator, 

292. 
Terumoto,   Omori,   sword-decorator, 

303- 

Tetsugen.    S^Naoshige  (Okamoto. ) 

Texture  not  shown  in  Japanese  pic- 
tures, 59. 

Theatre,  influence  of  the  No  dance, 
164. 

Third  Avenue  academy  of  sculptors, 


394 


INDEX 


Third  Avenue  academy  (continued  ): 
no;  in  Military  epoch,  116. 
See  also  Sculpture. 

Toba  Sojo.     See  Kakuyu. 

Tobacco,  introduction,  171  ;  clubs, 
171;  early  pipes,  172;  modern 
fashion  in  outfit,  172,  187—191; 
en  suite  decoration  of  outfit,  191. 
See  also  Sage-mono. 

Tohaku  Mitsutaka,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Tokei,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 

Tokugawa   epoch,    influence   on  art, 

43>J39»  27°- 
Tokujo,  Goto,  sword-decorator,  221. 

Tokuwaka    Tadamasa,    mask-carver, 

165. 

Tomi  Yeisuke,  art -founder,  145. 
Tomochika,  Omori,  sword-decorator, 

3°3- 

Tomoharu,  Okamoto,  sword-deco- 
rator, 279. 

Tomotsugu,  Okamoto,  sword- deco- 
rator, 279. 

Tomotsune,  Nakai,  sword-decorator, 
279. 

Tomotsune,  Omori,  sword-decorator, 

3°3- 
Tomoyuki,   Nakai,   sword-decorator, 

279. 
Tori  Busshi,  sculptor,  skill,  76,  77  ; 

wooden  statues,  77. 
Torii  family,      chromo-xylographers, 

48,  50. 

Toriusai.      See  Okano  Kijiro. 
T'oro,  development  of  casting,  140. 
Tosa  Mitsuoki,  netsuke  carver,  195. 
Tosa  school  of  pictorial  art,  34—36. 

See  also  Pictorial  art. 
Toshiharu,     Nara,    sword-decorator, 

276. 
Toshihisa,     Nara,     sword -decorator, 

276,  374- 
Toshinaga,     Nara,    sword-decorator, 

277. 
Toshiteru,    Nara,     sword-decorator, 

276. 


Tosui  Mitsunori,  Deme,  mask-carver, 

_i67. 

Toun,  art- founder,  143. 
Toun  Yasutaka,  Deme,  mask-carver, 

167. 

Toyoda  Koko,  metal-worker,  achieve- 
ments, 313,  314. 
Toyoharu,   Utagawa,   chromo-xylog- 

rapher,  50. 
Toyokuni,   Utagawa,    chromo-xylog- 

rapher,  50. 
Toyonobu,  Utagawa,  chromo-xylog- 

rapher,  50. 

Tsuji  family,  sword-decorators,  285. 
Tsujo,  Goto,  sword-decorator,   222, 

223. 
Tuke,  S.,  on  the  chromo-xylograph 

process,  52—55. 

UCHINO  HARUTOSHI,  sword-decorator, 

3°9- 
Umetada    family,    swordsmiths    and 

decorators,  267,  282. 
Unga,  sculptor,  116. 
Unkei,     sculptor,    ill;     his     Deva 

Kings,  1 1 3  ;  his  Watch  Dogs,  113. 
Unsho,  sculptor,  1 1 6. 
Untaro.      See  Toun  Yasutaka. 
Utagawa     family,     chromo-xylogra- 

phers,  50. 

Uwo  Hyoye,  mask-carver,  166. 
Uyematsu  Homin,  lacquerer,  363. 
Uyemura    family,    sword-decorators, 

286. 

WAKABAYASHI  family,  sword-decora- 
tors, 286. 

Watanabe  Hisamitsu,  sword-decora- 
tor, specimen  of  his  work,  308. 

Watanabe  Kwazan,  secretly  studies 
Occidental  methods,  66  ;  ordered 
to  commit  suicide,  66;  commem- 
oration, 66  ;  Western  influence  on 
his  paintings,  67. 

Watanabe  Seitei,  painter,  51,  63  ; 
influence  of  Western  methods  on, 
68. 


395 


INDEX 


Weapons,  bronze,  71.  Set  also 
Sword. 

Wong  Wei,  Chinese  painter,  22. 

Wood,  development  of  wood-engrav- 
ing, 45—47,  367  ;  development  of 
chromo-xylographs,  48-51;  tech- 
nique of  chromo-xylographs,  51— 
55  ;  early  wooden  statues,  76-78  ; 
Nara-epoch  statue,  87  ;  Heian- 
epoch  statues,  108  ;  the  Deva 
Kings,  112;  favourite  material  for 
statues,  117;  carving  in  interior 
decoration,  150,  154-158  ;  carved 
masks,  163,  165  ;  netsuke  carv- 
ings, 177  ;  puppets,  194,  197- 
200  ;  modern  carving,  200—204. 

Wu  Tao-tsz,  Chinese  painter,  22. 

XYLOGRAPHY.     See  Wood. 

YAKUSHI,  sculptor,  80. 

Yakushi,      seventh-century       bronze 

statue  of,  79. 

Yamagawa  Koji.      See  Koji. 
Yamamoto  Fukumatsu,  figure- sculptor, 

201. 

Yamamoto   family,    lacquerers,    361, 

362. 

Yamato  Mamori,  mask-carver,  168. 
Yamato   school   of  pictorial  art,   32, 

34-36.      See  also  Pictorial  art. 
Yasha,  mask-carver,  165. 
Yashichiro,  Nagoshi,  founder,  invents 

tea-ceremonial  urn,  136  ;  honours, 

I37-, 
Yasuchicka,  Nara,  sword-decorator, 

276. 
Yasuchika  Shinsuke,  sword- decorator, 

3°3- 

Yasui  family,  sword-decorators,  286. 
Yasuiye,  Jiyemon,  art-founder,  141. 
Yasuteru,  Jiyemon,  art-founder,  141. 
Yechizen.     See  Toshiharu. 


Yeijiro.     See  Ichijo. 
Yeijo,  Goto,  sword-decorator,  221. 
Yeishi,  chromo-xylographer,  50. 
Yeishi,     Iwamoto,     sword-decorator, 

3°3- 

Yenchin,  artist-priest,  29. 
Yenjo,  Goto,  sword-decorator,  224. 
Yoji  Hidetsugu,  lacquerer,  361. 
Yqjuro.      See  Nakayama  Shoyeki. 
Yokoya      family,     sword-decorators, 

*74>  3°5- 
Yoneharu  Unkai,  sculptor,  202. 

Yosei,  lacquerer,  363. 

Yoshimichi, Miyochin,  armourer,  263. 

Yoshinari,  mask-carver,  165. 

Yoshinori,  Mizuno,  sword-decorator, 
272. 

Yoshioka  Tadatsuga,  sword-decora- 
tor, 310. 

Yoshisato,  Ishiguro,  sword-decorator, 
302. 

Yoshishige,     sword-decorator,     272, 

374- 
Yoshitsugu,    Akao,    sword-decorator, 

281. 

Yoshitsune,  Ishiguro,  sword-decora- 
tor, 302. 

Yoshitsune,  Minamoto,  his  armour, 
205. 

Yujo,  Goto,  sword- decorator,  217, 
218,  220,  222  ;  and  relief  carving, 
249  ;  field,  250,  251  ;  skill,  252; 
specimens  of  his  work,  255,  256, 
258. 

Yukan  Mitsuyasu,  Deme,  mask- 
carver,  167. 

Yusai  Yasuhisa,  Deme,  mask-carver, 
167. 

Yuzayemon,  wood-carver,  I  50. 

ZENRIUSAI  GIDO.      See  Suwara. 
Zensho,  Nagoshi,  art-founder,  138. 
Zuiyetsu.     See  lyemasa. 


396 


NAMES,   PERIODS,    AND    SCHOOLS    OF 
JAPANESE  PICTORIAL  ARTISTS 


NAMES    AND    ERAS    OF    JAPANESE    ARTIST 

ARTIZANS   OTHER  THAN   KERAMISTS  AND 

SCULPTORS    OF   SWORD    FURNITURE 


ALPHABETICAL    LIST    OF    CHISELLERS 
OF    SWORD    FURNITURE 


NAMES 
PERIODS    AND    SCHOOLS 

OF 

JAPANESE     PICTORIAL     ARTISTS 


MEANING  OF   LETTERS   PLACED  AFTER  THE   NAME   OF   EACH   ARTIST 


B.  =  Buddhist  School. 
Ko.  ~  Kose  School, 
Ka.  —  Kasuga  School. 
Ta.  =  Takuma  School. 
To.  —  Tobaye  School. 
S.Y.  —  Sung-Yuan  School. 


K. 
T. 

U. 

K. 


(b.    1827.)     (Living.) 


Aimi.     loth  cent.     Ko. 
Akimoto  Soyu.     (Living.) 
Ando  Hirochika.     (Living.) 
Ando  Hiroshige.     (d.  1858.) 
Aoki  Suizan.     (Living.) 
Arai  Kanchiku.     (d.  1751.) 
AraiTonan.     (d.  1761.)     K. 
Araki  Kwampo.     (Living.)     S. 
Araki  Kan-ichi. 

M.  C. 

Arihisa.     i4th  cent.     Ko. 
Arimune.     i2th  cent.     Ko. 
Ariyasu.     (d.  1333.)     Ko. 
Ariiye.     (d.  1320.)     Ko. 
Asukai.     (Court  lady.)     i7th  cent.     T. 
Asuke-no-Tsunenori.     toth  cent.     B. 
Atomi  Gyokushi.     (Woman.)     (Living.) 

S. 

Atomi  Kakei.     (Woman.)     (Living.)    S. 
Awadaguchi  Takamitsu.     (d.  1426.)   T. 
Awadaguchi  Tsunematsu.  (d.  1420.)    T. 
Baishun.     (Son  of  Shunsho.)     K. 
Baiyei.     (Son  of  Nobuyuki.)     K. 
Bamoki.     (Kitagama  Kango.)    (d.  1820.) 

M.  C. 

Bokusen.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 
Bonyo.     1 5th  cent.     C.  R. 


C.R.  =  Chinese  Renaissance  School. 
M.C.  =  Modern  Chinese  School. 

K.  =:  Kano  School. 

T.  =  Tosa  School. 

S.  =  Shijo  School. 

U.  =  Ukiyoye  School. 


M-  C. 
S.  Y. 


Chikanobu.     (Son  of  Tsunenobu.)  K. 

Chin  Nampin.     (d.  1772.)  M.  C. 

Chinkai.     nth  cent.     B. 

Chisen.     gth  cent.     B. 

Chiusan.     nth  cent.     B. 

Chiyo    (or  Mitsuhisa).     (Wife  of   Kano 

Motonobu.)     K. 
Cho  Chikuseki.    (Nagamochi.)   (d.  1828.) 

M.  C. 

Cho  Gesshu.     (d.  1832.)    M.  C. 
Cho  Koran.    (Female.)    (d.  1879.) 
Cho  Shunto.     (Living.)     M.  C. 
Chodensu  (or  Mincho).    i5th  cent. 
Choson.     1  5th  cent.     S.  Y. 
Doki  Tobu.     (d.  1541.)     C.  R. 
Doki  Tomikage.     (d.  1468.)     C.  R. 
Dokura.     i4th  cent.     S.  Y. 
DpnhS  (or  Shuo).     1  5th  cent.     C.R. 
Eien.     iithcent.     B. 
Eiga.     i3th  cent.     Ta. 
Eiri.     loth  cent.     B. 
Eisan.     igth  cent.     U. 
Eisen.     i9th  cent.     U. 
Eishin  (IsenorGenshosai).   (d.  1828.)   K. 
Eishin.      iith  cent.     B. 
Eitoku.     1  9th  cent.     K. 
Eitoku  Kuninobu.     (d.  1582.) 


K. 


PICTORIAL    ARTISTS 


Eitoku  Takanobu.     (d.  1794.)     K. 

Fuchino  Shinsai.     (d.  1823.)     M.  C. 

Fugai.     (d.  1710.)     K. 

Fujii  Shorin.     (Living.)     S. 

Fujita  Gako.     (d.  1885).     M.  C. 

Fukuda  Chokujo.     (Living.)     S. 

FukudaHanko.     (d.  1864.)     M.  C. 

Fukuhara  Yogaku  (TaigadO.)    (d.  1776.) 
M.  C. 

Fukushima  Ryuho.     (d.  1889.)     M.  C. 

Furuya  Kogan.     (Living.)     T. 

Furuyama  Moromasa.  (Son  of  Furu- 
yama  Moroshige.)  U. 

Furuyama  Moroshige.  (Pupil  of  Hi- 
shigawa Moronobu.)  U. 

Fusanobu.     (Son  of  Shunsui.)     K. 

Fuwa  Sodo.      (Living.)     K. 

Gagaku.     (d.  1895.)     M-  c- 

Gakusai.     15111  cent.    T. 

Ganku  (Kishi).     (d.  1838.)     S. 

Ganrei  (Kishi).  igth  cent.  S.  (Son-in- 
law  of  Ganku.) 

Ganryo.     (Son-in-law  of  Ganku.)     S. 

Gantai.     (Son  of  Ganku.)     S. 

Geiami.     (d.  1466.)     C.  R. 

Genki.     (d.  1797.)     S. 

Genryuyen  Kuninawo.  (Pupil  of  the 
second  Toyokuni.)  U. 

Geppo.     (d.  1839.)     M.  C. 

Gesha.  (Pupil  of  Toriyama  Sekiyen.) 
U. 

Gessen.     i5th  cent.     C.  R. 

Gessen.     (d.  1811.)     S. 

GiNankai.     (d.  1751.)     M.  C. 

Go  Shunmei  (Igarashi)  or  Kokii.  Second 
half  of  1 8th  cent.  K. 

Gototei  Kunisada.  (Pupil  of  the  second 
Toyokuni.)  U. 

Gugyoku.     1 5th  cent.     C.  R. 

Gyokuraku  or  Soyii.  (Fellow-student  of 
Motonobu.)  K. 

Hada-no-Mushitaro.     8th  cent.     B. 

Hagawa  Chinchd.     (d.  1754.)     U. 

Hakuga.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Hakusei.     iSth  cent.     K. 

Hakuyen.     1 7th  cent.     K. 

Hanabusa  Ippo.  (Adopted  son  of 
Itcho.)  K. 

Hanabusa  Itcho.     (d.  1724.)     K. 

Haneda  Gesshu.     (Living.)     S. 

Hara  Arinaka.     (d.  1837.)     M.  C. 

Harazaichin.     iglh  cent.     T. 

Haruki  Nanko.     (d.  1839.)     M.  C. 

Harumasa.     (Son  of  Hokkei.)     U. 

Hashimoto  Gaho.  (Living).  K.  (Kano 
style  modified  in  accordance  with 
Western  ideas.) 

Hasegawa  Gyokujun.     (Living.)     S. 


Hasegawa    Nobuharu.     (Son  of   Hase- 
gawa Tohaku.)     C.  R. 

Hasegawa  Settan.     (d.  1843.)     M.  C. 

Hasegawa  Tocho.     i7th  cent.     K. 

Hasegawa  Tohaku,    ) 

called   the    5th   >  i6th  cent.     C.  R. 
Sesshu.  ) 

Hata-no-Mome.     iithcent.     B. 

Hata-no-Munesada.      iithcent.     Ko. 

Hayami  Tsuneaki  (ShungySsai).  (d. 
1790.)  U. 

Hayamizu  Tsuneaki.     (d.  1775.)     U. 

Hayase  Kansen.     (d.  1888.)     M.  C. 

Hayashi  Banka.     (d.  1845.)     M.  C. 

Hayashi  Konyen.  (Pupil  of  Fukuhara 
Gogaku.)  M.  C. 

Hayashi  Shorin.     (d.  1792.)     M.  C. 

Hida-no-Tokoami.     gth  cent.     Ko. 

Hidemaro.  (Pupil  of  first  Kitakawa 
Utamaro.)  U. 

Hidenobu.     (d.  1635.)     K. 

Hidenobu.     (d.  1710.)     K. 

Higuchi  Tangetsu.  (b.  1822.)  (Living.) 
K. 

Hineno  Taizan.     (d.  1865.)     M.  C. 

Hirafuku  Suian.     (d.  1890.)     S. 

Hirochika.     (Son  of  Ryusho.)     U. 

Hirohisa.     (d.  1828.)     T. 

Hirokage.     (Son  of  Ryusho.)    U. 

Hiromori.     (d.  1775.)     T. 

Hiroshige.  (Son  of  Ando  Hiroshige.) 
U. 

Hiroshige.     (d.  1858.)     U. 

Hirotaka.     iithcent.     Ko. 

Hirotsura.     (d.  1864.)     T. 

Hiroyasu.     (d.  1750.)     T. 

Hiroyuki.     (d.  1811.)     T. 

Hishigawa  Morofusa.  (Son  of  Moron- 
obu.) U. 

Hishigawa  Morohira.  (Son  of  Hishiga- 
wa Moronobu.)  U. 

Hishigawa  Moronaga.  (Son  of  Moro- 
nobu.) U. 

Hishigawa  Moronobu.     (d.  1714.)     U. 

Hishigawa  Moroyoshi.  (Son  of  Hishi- 
gawa Moronobu.)  U. 

Hitomi  Kwangetsu.     (d.  1797.)     M.  C. 

Ho  Hyakusen.     (d.  1755.)     M.  C. 

Hoashi  Kyou.     (d.  1878.)     M.  C. 

Hokkei.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Hokuba.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Hokusai  (Katsushika  Shunro,  Sori,  Tat- 
sumasa,  Taito,  or  Manrojin).  (d. 
1849.)  U. 

Hokusen.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Hokushu.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Hokushun.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Hokusu.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 


PICTORIAL    ARTISTS 


Hokutai.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Hokuun.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Honami  Kwoyetsu.     1 7th  cent.    T. 

Honda  Kado.     (d.  1879.)     S. 

HosodaEishi.     (d.  1810.)     U. 

Hotta  Shuko.     (d.  1822.)     S. 

Ichijusai  Kunimasa.  (Pupil  of  the  sec- 
ond Toyokuni.)  U. 

Ichimosai  Yoshitora.  (Pupil  of  Ichiyu- 
sai.)  U. 

Ichiyeisai  Yoshitsuya.  (Pupil  of  Ichi- 
yusai.) U. 

Ichiyensai  Kunimaru.  (Pupil  of  the 
second  Toyokuni.)  U. 

Ichiyusai  Kuniyoshi.     (d.  1861.)     U. 

Ifukin.     (d.  1811.)     M.  C. 

lijima  Koga.     (Living.)     S. 

Ijusai  Yoshikazu.  (Pupil  of  Ichiyusai.) 
U. 

Ike  Taiga  (or  Mommei).    iSthcent.  M.  C. 

Ikeda  Hansen.     (b.  1825.)    (Living.)    M. 

Ikeda  Koson.     (Pupil  of  Hoitsu.)     T. 

Ikeda  Shinsai.     (Living.)     S. 

Ikehara  Jitsunan.     (Living.)     M.  C. 

Ikkiu.     1 5th  cent.     C.  R. 

Ikkosai  Yoshimori.  (Pupil  of  Ichiyu- 
sai.) U. 

Imakoji  Yuzan.     (d.  1845.)     M.  C. 

Imayo  Sanyo.     (Living.)     M.  C. 

Imose  Tonei.     (Living.)     M.  C. 

Ippitsusai  Buncho.     (d.  1775.)     U. 

Ipposai  Kuniyasu.  (Pupil  of  the  second 
Toyokuni.)  U. 

Ipposai  Yoshitsuna.  (Pupil  of  Ichiyu- 
sai.) U. 

Ishida  Gyokuzan.     (d.  1812.)     M.  C. 

Ishida  Gyokuzan.     (d.  1812.)     U. 

Ishikawa  KSzan.     (d.  1869.)     M.  C. 

Ishikawa  Toyonobu.     (d.  1785.)     U. 

Issai  Yoshinobu.  (Pupil  of  Ichiyusai.) 
U. 

Issan.     (d.  1763.)     K. 

Isshi.     1 5th  cent.     S.  Y. 

Itaya  Hiromasa  (Keishu.)    (d.  1797.)    T. 

Ito  Jakusai.     (d.  1800.)     M.  C. 

Ito  Soto.     (Pupil  of  Yu  Hi.)     M.  C. 

Ittosai  Yoshifuji.     (Pupil  of  Ichiyusai.) 

TJ 

Iwai  Seisai.     igih  cent.     M.  C. 
Iwase  Hammu.     (d.  1885.)     M.  C. 
Iwase  Kyoden.     (d.  1816.)     U. 
Iwase  Matahei.     (d.  1630.)     U. 
Iwashima.     8th  cent.     B. 
Izumi  Morikazu.     (d.  1780.)     U. 
Jitsuye.     9th  cent.     B. 
Jonin.     1 3th  cent.     Ta. 
Josen.     (d.  1728.)     K. 


Josetsu.     (d.  1420.)     C.  R. 
Kaburagi  Baikei.     (d.  1803.)     M.  C. 
Kaga  no  Chiyo.     (Woman.)     (d.  1775.) 

M.  C. 

Kaihoku  Yusetsu      (Son  of  Yusho.)    K. 
Kaihoku  (or  Yusho).     (Pupil  of  Eitoku.) 

(d.  1615.)     K. 

Kakimoto  Sesshin.     (d.  1839.)     S. 
Kakuhan.     nth  cent.     B. 
Kakuyu;  Toba  no  S5J5.    1 2th  cent.   To. 
Kamada  Gansho.     (d.  1859.)     S. 
Kameda  Bosai.     (d.  1826.)     M.  C. 
Kami-no-Suguri  Mikaji.     8th  cent.     B. 
Kami-no-Suguri  Uskikai.     8th  cent.     B. 
Kan  Tainen.     i8th  cent.     M.  C. 
Kanai  Ushu.     (d.  1857.)     M.  C. 
Kanaye  Shungaku.     (d.  1811.)     M.  C. 
Kanda  Koun.     (Living.)     M.  C. 
Kandensu.     i5th  cent.     S.  Y. 
Kaneko  Kinryo.     (d.  1817.)     M.  C. 
Kano  Ansen.     (b.  1823.)     (Living.)     K. 
Kano  K6i.     (Pupil   of   Mitsunobu.)     (d. 

1673.)     K. 

Kano  Oshin.     (Living.)     K. 
Kano  Ryosen.     (Living.)     K. 
Kano  Shogyoku.     (Living.)     K. 
Kano  Tanbi.     (Living.)     K. 
KanoYeitoku.     (d.  1891.)     K. 
Kansai.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 
Katagiri  Ranseki.     (d.  1831.)     M.  C. 
Kato  Bunrei.     (d.  1782.)     K. 
Kato  Yentaku.     (d.  1730.)     K. 
Katori  Nobiko.    (d.  1782.)     M.  C. 
Katsuda  Chikuo.     (d.  1659.)     K. 
Katsukawa  Shinsai.      (Son  of  Katsu- 

kawa  Shunsui.)     U. 

Katsukawa  Shunko.     (Pupil  of  Katsu- 
kawa Shunsh5.)     U. 
Katsukawa  Shunsho.     (d.  1801.)     U. 
Katsukawa  Shunsui.      (Son  of  Miya- 

gawa  Choshun.)     U. 
Katsukawa  Shunsui,     (d.  1738.)     U 
Katsukawa  Shunyei.     (d.  1819.)     U. 
Kawabata  Gyokusho.     (Living.)     S. 
Kawabe  Mitate.     (Living.)     K. 
Kawamura  Bampo.    (Pupil  of  Ganku.) 

S. 
Kawayeda  Toyonobu   (Rakkatei.)      (d. 

I735-)     U. 

Kei  Snoki.     (d.  1345.)     T. 
Keisai.  Yoshioku.     (Pupil  of  Ichiyusai.) 

U. 

Keishin.     loth  cent.     B. 
Keishun.     1 5th  cent.     Ka. 
Keishyoki  (called  also  Shokei,  or  Hinra- 

kusai).     1 5th  cent.    C.  R. 
Ken  Ryotai.     (d.  1774.)     M.  C. 
KiBaitei.     (d.  1812.)     S. 


PICTORIAL    ARTISTS 


Ki  Tokumin.     (d.  1801.)     M.  C. 

Kikuchi  Hobun.     (Living.)     S. 

Kikuchi  Yosai.     (d.  1878.)     M.  C. 

Kikumaro.  (Pupil  of  first  Kitakawa 
Utamaro.)  U. 

Kimura  Nagamitsu.  (Pupil  of  Kano 
Motonobu.)  K. 

Kimura  Ritsugaku.     (d.  1889.)     K. 

KinKado.     (d.  1802.)     M.  C. 

Kin  Kempo.     (d.  1774.)     M.  C. 

Kinmochi.     loth  cent.     Ko. 

Kinoshita  Itsuun.     (d.  1866.)     M.  C. 

Kinoshita  Roshu.     (d.  1879.)     M.  C. 

Kintada.     loth  cent.     Ko. 

Kishi  Chikudo.    (b.  1826.)    (Living.)    S. 

Kishi  Kyugaku.     (Living.)     S. 

Kita  Busei.    (d.  1856.)     M.  C. 

Kitagawa  Utamaro.     (d.  1805.)     U. 

Kitagawa  Utamaro.  (Second  genera- 
tion.) U. 

Kitao  Katsunaga.  (Son  of  Kitao  Ma- 
sayoshi.)  U. 

Kitao  Masayoshi  (or  Kawagata  Keisei). 
(d.  1824.)  U. 

Kitao  Seitan  (same  as  Iwase  Kyoden). 
U. 

Kitao  Shigemasa.     (d.  1819.)     U. 

Kiuhaku.     (d.  1653.)     K. 

Kizan  Setsugai.     (Living.)     M.  C. 

KoFuyo.     (d.  1784.)     M.  C. 

Ko  Ryuko.     (d.  1858.)     M.  C. 

K6  Sukoku  (Takahisa,  or  Toryuo,  or  Ga- 
kushisai).  (d.  1804.)  K. 

Kobu  Shunman  (or  Toshimitsu).  (d. 
1815.)  U. 

Koikawa  Shuncho.     (d.  1789.)     U. 

Koike  Tensho.    (d.  1800.)     M.  C. 

Koizumi  Danzan.     (d.  1854.)     M.  C. 

Koka  (2d  son  of  Sumiyoshi  Jokei).  (d. 
I773-)  T. 

Komatsubara  Suikei.    (d.  1834.)    M.  C. 

Kondo  Kyoharu.     (d.  1720.)     U. 

Kono  Bairei.     (Living.)     S. 

Kono  Ryosho.     (Living.)     M.  C. 

Koreshige.     nth  cent.     Ko. 

Korehisa  (Hidano  Kami),    (d.  1320.)    T. 

Koryusai.     (d.  1770.)     U. 

Koryuko.     igth  cent.     T. 

Kose-no-Kanaoka.     gih  cent.     Ko. 

Koshiba  Morinao.     (d.  1760.)     K. 

Kotei.     1 5th  cent.     C.  R. 

Koze  Kinki.     (Living.)     S. 

Kubota  Beisen.     (Living.)     S. 

Kubota  Kogi.     (Living.)     S. 

Kudara  Kawanari.  gth  cent.  Ko. 
(Not  generally  included  in  the  School 
of  Kose,  but  he  certainly  set  the 
style  which  Kose  followed.) 


Kukai.     9th  cent.     B. 

Kumagaye  Naohiko.  (b.  1828.)  (Liv- 
ing.) S. 

Kumayama  Gyokusho.    i8th  cent.  M.  C. 

KuniUnsen.    (d.  1811.)     M.  C. 

Kuniaki.  (Pupil  of  the  second  Toyo- 
kuni.) U. 

Kunichika.  (Pupil  of  the  second  Toyo- 
kuni.) U. 

Kunimasa.     (d.  1860.)     U. 

Kuninobu.     igth  cent.     K. 

Kunisada.  (Son  of  first  Toyokuni.) 
(d.  1864.)  U. 

Kunisada.  (Son  of  first  Toyokuni.) 
(d.  1870.)  U. 

Kunitaka.     (d.  1272.)     T. 

Kuniteru.  (Pupil  of  the  second  Toyo- 
kuni.) U. 

Kuniyoshi.     (d.  1861.)     U. 

Kuratani  Rokuzan.     (d.  1833.)     M.  C. 

Kure  Toshiaki.     (d.  1781.)     M.  C. 

Kurokawa  Kigyoku.     (d.  1814.)     M.  C. 

Kusaba  Haisen.     (d.  1867.)     M.  C. 

Kushihashi  Yeishun.     (d.  1765.)     K. 

Kushiro  Unsen.      (d.  1811.)     M.  C. 

Kuwagata  Keisai.     (d.  1826.)     M.  C. 

Kuzumi  Morikage.  (Pupil  of  Tanyu.) 
K. 

Kwai  Getsudo   (Doho,   or  Ochi).       (d. 

1725.)   u. 

Kyozen.     nth  cent.     B. 
Kyuyen.     i7th  cent.     K. 
Kyuzan.      1 7th  and  1 8th  cent.     K. 
Maruyama  Okio.     (d.  1795.)     S. 
Masanobu.     (d.  1490.)     K. 
Masanobu.     (d.  1662.)     K. 
Matsumoto  Fuko.     (Living.)     M.  C. 
Matsumura  Keibun.     (d.  1844.)     S. 
Matsumura  Gekkei   (or  Goshun).      (d. 

1811.)     S. 
Matsuno  Baizan.     Second  half  of  i8th 

cent.     K. 

Matsuno  Baizan.     (d.  1857.)     M.  C. 
Mayeda  Kwangyo.     (Living.)     T. 
Megata  Banson.     (d.  1880.)     M.  C. 
Michinobu.      (d.  1792.)     K. 
Mikuma  Katen.     (d.  1794.)     M.  C. 
Minagawa  Kien.      i8th  cent.     M.  C. 
Minamoto  Musashi.     (d.  1645.)     K. 
Mitani  Toko.     (d.  1775.)     M.  C. 
Mitsuaki.     (d.  1348.)     T. 
Mitsuaki.     i3th  cent.     T. 
Mitsuaki.     i4th  cent.     T. 
Mitsubumi.     i8th  cent.     T. 
Mitsuchika.     isth  cent.     T. 
Mitsuhide.     i3th  cent.    T. 
Mitsuhiro.     i5th  cent.     T. 
Mitsukiyo.     (d.  1764.)     T. 


PICTORIAL    ARTISTS 


Mitsukuni.     i5th  cent.     T. 
Mitsukuni.     i6th  cent.     T. 
Mitsumasa      i4th  cent.     T. 
Mitsumochi.     i5th  cent.     T. 
Mitsumoto.     (d.  1569.)     T. 
Mitsunaga.     i2th  ce^nt.     Ka. 
Mitsunobu.     (d.  1473.)     T. 
Mitsunobu  (called  also  Ukyo-no-Nashin). 

(Son  of  Eitoku.)     (d.  1608.)     K. 
Mitsuoki.     (d.  1693.)     T. 
Mitsuroku.     i8th  cent.    T. 
Mitsusada.     i8th  cent.     T. 
Mitsushige.     (d.  1393.)     T. 
Mitsushige.     1 5th  cent.     T. 
Mitsusuke.     (d.  1710.)     T. 
Mitsutoki.     1 8th  cent.     T. 
Mitsuyasu.     (d.  1322.)     Ko. 
Mitsuyori.     (d.  1710.)     T. 
Mitsuyoshi.     (d.  1613.)     T. 
Mitsuyoshi.     (d.  1772.)     T. 
Mitsuzumi.     i8th  cent.     T. 
Miyagawa  Choshun.     (d.  1730.)     U. 
Miyagawa   Shunsui  (or  Sh5sen).     (Son 

of  Miyagawa  Choshun.)     U. 
Miyake  Yeisai.     (d.  1878.)     M.  C. 
Mizuo  Rypzen.     (d.  1832.)     M.  C. 
Mochizuki  Gyokusen.    (d.  1755.)    M.  C. 
Mochizuki  Gyokusen.     (Pupil  of  Gek- 

kei.)       (Son    of    first    Mochizuki.) 

(Living.)     S. 

MokuFuyo.     (d.  1816.)     M.  C. 
Mokwan.     i4th  cent.     S.  Y. 
Momoda  Ryuyei.     (d.  1698.)     K. 
Mori  Kwansai.     (Living.)     S. 
Mori  Ransai.     (d.  1801.)     M.  C. 
Mori  Shuhd.     (d.  1823.)     S. 
Mori  Sosen.     (d.  1822.)     S. 
Mori  Tetsuzan.     (Adopted  son  of  Mori 

Sosen.)     S. 

Mori  Yeishun.     igth  cent.     S. 
Morikawa  Chikuso.     (d.  1829.)     M.  C. 
Morikawa  Sobun.     (Living.)     S. 
Morinobu,  vide  Tanyu. 
Motomitsu.     nth  cent.     Ka. 
Motonobu.     (d.  1559.)     K. 
Mototoshi.     (Son  of  Ryojo.)     K. 
Munehisa.     I3th  cent.     Ko. 
Munenobu.     (d.  1562.)     K. 
Muneyoshi.     i2th  cent.     Ko. 
Murakami  Shodo.     (d.  1841.)     S. 
Murase  Chotei.     (d.  1818.)     M.  C. 
Murase  Gyokuden.     (Living.)     S. 
Myogy5.     nth  cent.     B. 
Myojun.     nth  cent.     B. 
Myotaku.     i4th  cent.     S.  Y. 
Nagaari.     i3th  cent.     Ko. 
Nagaharu.     i4th  cent.     T. 
Nagasawa  Rosetsu,     (d.  1799.)     S. 


Nagayuki.     i3th  cent.     Ka. 
Nakabayashi  Chikudo.    (d.  1853.)    M.  C. 
Nakagawa  Royetsu.     (Living.)     S. 
Nakanishi  Koseki.     (d.  1883.)     S. 
Nakano  Kimei.     (Living.)     T. 
Nakaye  Ranko.     (d.  1830.)     M.  C. 
Naonobu  (Jitekisai).     (d.  1650.)     K. 
Nen  Kao.     i4th  cent.     S.  Y. 
Nishimura  Nantei.      (Pupil  of    Okio.) 

(d.  1834.)     S. 
Nishimura  Shigenaga.     (Pupil  of  Torii 

Kyonobu.)     U. 

Nishina  Kinsen      (d.  1830.)     M.  C. 
Nishiyama  Hoyen.     (d.  1867.)     S. 
Niwa  Kagen.     (d.  1786.)     M.  C. 
Noami.     (d.  1450.)     C.  R. 
Nobuharu.     i4th  cent.     Ka. 
Nobusada.     i2th  cent.     Ka. 
Nobushige.     nth  cent.     Ko. 
Nobuyuki.     i7th  cent.     K. 
Nobuzane.     i3th  cent.     T. 
Noguchi  Yukoku.     (Living.)     M.  C. 
Noguchi  Shohin.     (Woman.)     (Living.) 

M.  C. 

Nomura  Bunkyo.     (Living.)     S. 
Nomura  Sotatsu.     (d.  1630.)     T. 
Norinobu.     (d.  1731.)     K. 
Noro  Kaiseki.     (d.  1828.)     M.  C. 
Nukina  Kiaoku.     (d.  1863.)     M.  C. 
ObaGakusen.    (b.  1820.)  (Living).  M.  C. 
Oda  Chikkoku.     (d.  1830.)     M.  C. 
Oda  Hyakkoku  (Kaisen).     (Pupil  of  Gek- 

kei.)     (d.  1862.)     S. 
Odagiri  Shunko.     (Living.)     T. 
Ogata  Kenzan    (Shinsei,  or  Shisui,  or 

Reikai,  or  Tom).     Brother  of  Ogata 

Korin.     T. 
Ogata  Korin  (Jomei,  or  Kosei,  or   H6- 

shuku).      (d.  1716.)     T. 
Ogata  Korai.     (d.  1716.)     K. 
Ogen.     nth  cent.     B. 
Ogura  Tokei.     Early  igth  cent.     M.  C. 
Oguri  Sotan.     (d.  1440.)     C.  R. 
OkadaBeisan.     (d.  1818.)     M.  C. 
Okada  Hanko.     (d.  1846.)     M.  C. 
Okada  Kanrin.     (d.  1845.)     M-  c- 
Okada  Tameyasu.     (d.  1863.)     M.  C. 
Okada  Tameyasu  (Reizei  Saburo).   (d. 

1844.)     T. 

Okamoto  Shuki.     (d.  1861.)     M.  C. 
Okamoto  Toyohiko.     (Pupil  of  Gekkei.) 

(d.  1845.)     S. 

Oku  Bummei.     igth  cent.     S. 
Okubo  Shibutsu.     (d.  1837.)     S. 
Okumura  Masanobu.     (d.  1730.)     U. 
Okumura  Sekiran.     (Living.)     S. 
Okura  Ritsuzan.     (d.  1846.)     M.  C. 
Onishi  Chinnen.     (d.  1847.)     M.  C. 


PICTORIAL    ARTISTS 


Ono  Tsu.     (d.  1580.)     C.  R. 

Ooka  Shunboku.     (d.  1760.)     K. 

0-Riu.     (Female  artist.)    (d.  1735.)     U. 

Oshikatau.     8th  cent.     B. 

Oshima  Fuyo.     i8th  cent.     M.  C. 

Otokashi.     7th  cent.     B. 

Otsu  Matahei.     (d.  1725.)     U. 

Rai  Sanyo,     (d.  1832.)     M.  C. 

Raisho.      nth  cent.     B. 

Raishu.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Raito.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 

Rakaku  Jakusai.     1 5th  cent.     T. 

Renzan.     (Adopted  son  of  Ganku.)     S. 

Ryojo.     (d.  1620.)     K. 

Ryonin.     nth  cent.     B. 

Ryoshiu.     nth  cent.     B. 

Ryoson.     i3th  cent.    Ta. 

Ryotaku.     (Son  of  Suyeyori.)     K. 

Ryu     Rikyo    (Yanagisawa     Kien).     (d. 

1758.)     M.  C. 

Ryush.5.     (Son  of  Ando  Hiroshige.)     U. 
Sadahide.     (Pupil  of  the  second  Toyo- 

kuni.)     U. 

Sadanobu.     (d.  1673.)     K. 
Saga  Chokuan.     i6th  cent.     C.  R. 
Saga  Nichokuan.     (Son  of   Chokuan.) 

C.  R. 

Saicho.     9th  cent.     B. 
Saito  Hokusai.     (Son  of  Hokusai.)     U. 
Sakai    Hoitsu     (Bunsen,    or    Ishin,    or 

Torin,  or  Oson,  or  Teihakushi).     (d. 

1828.)     T. 

Sakurai  Sekkan.     (d.  1790.)    M.  C. 
Sakuma  Soyen.     (d.  1828.)     S. 
Sanraku.     (d.  1635.)     K. 
Sansetsu.     (d.  1651.)     K. 
Sasaki  Seitsu.     (d.  1856.)     M.  C. 
Satake  Yeikai.     (d.  1874.)     M.  C. 
Sato  Kwobi.     (d.  1857.)     M.  C. 
Sawaki  Sushiki.     (d.  1772.)     K. 
Seisen    (Kwaishinsai).      (d.    1846.)     K. 
•Seki  Sashu.     (d.  1875.)     M.  C. 
Sekicho.     (Pupil  of  Toriyama  Sekiyen.) 

U. 

Sekkoyen.     (d.  1805.)     M.  C. 
Sen  HittO.     igth  cent,  (early).     M.  C. 
Sesshu.     (d.  1506.)     C.  R. 
Sesson.     (Pupil  of  Sesshu.)     C.  R. 
Settaku.     i5th  cent.     C.  R. 
Sha  Buson.     (d.  1783.)     M.  C. 
Shiba  Kokan.     (d.  1818.)     M.  C. 
Shiba  Kokan.     (d.  1818.)     U. 
Shiba  Jijo.     1 5th  cent.     Ka. 
Shiba  Kwanshin.     (d.  1437.)     T. 
Shiba  Kwanshin.     i5th  cent.     Ka. 
Shiba  Rinken.     1 5th  cent.     Ka. 
Shiba  Sonkai.     i5th  cent.     Ka. 
Shibata  Gikin.     (d.  1819.)     S. 


Shibata  Zeshin.     (d.  1895.)     S. 

ShigetO.     iithcent.     B. 

Shikimaro.      (Pupil   of    first   Kitakawa 

Utamaro.)     U. 

Shimada  Motonao.     (d.  1830.)     S. 
Shimasaki  Umpo.  ,(d.  1828,)     M.  C. 
Shimizu  Kyokuka.     (d.  1819.)     M.  C. 
Shimokawabe  Jusui.     (d.  1820.)     U. 
Shinsai.     (Pupil  of  Hokusai.)     U. 
Shinsho.     (Son  of  Suyeyori.)     K. 
Shirai  Naokata.     (Pupil  of  Okio.)     S. 
Shiyo.     (Pupil  of  Toriyama  Sekiyen.)   U. 
Shoga.     1 3th  cent.     Ta. 
Shojo  Gyosai.     (d.  1889.)     M.  C. 
Shojo  (or  Shosho-o),  called  Shokado.    (d. 

1639.)     K. 

Shokatsu  Kan.     (d.  1780.)     K. 
Shokei.     1 5th  cent.     Ta. 
Shosei.     iithcent.     B. 
Shosen.     (d.  1880.)     K. 
Shoyei  (called  also  Naonobu).    (d.  1592.) 

K. 
Sh5yei.    (4th  son  of  Naonobu.)  (d.  1615.) 

K. 
Shoyei.    (5th  son  of  Shoyei)  (Naonobu). 

(d.  1620.)     K. 
Shubun.     (d.  1420.)     C.  R. 
Shuga.     (Son  of  Kansai.)     U. 
Shugetsu.     (Pupil  of  Sesshu.)     C.  R. 
Shiiko.     iithcent.     Ko. 
Shuko.     (Fellow    student    of     Sesshu.} 

C.R. 

Shunsho.     1 7th  cent.     K. 
Shunsui.     (Son  of  Shunsho.)     K. 
Shusen.     iSth  cent.     K. 
Shutoku.     (Pupil  of  Sesshu.)     C.  R. 
So  Shigan.     (d.  1770.)     M.  C. 
So  Shiseki.     (d.  1774.)     M.  C. 
So  Shizan.     (d.  1790.)     M.  C. 
Soami.     (d.  1515.)     C.  R. 
Soga  Jasoku.     (d.  1467.)     C.  R. 
Soga  Shohaku.     (d.  1783.)     M.  C. 
Soga  Shohaku  (Iki  or  lyasoku-ken,  or 

Kishinsai).     (d.  1783.)     K. 
Sokuyo.     i8th  cent.     K. 
Soritsu.     (Pupil  of  Oguri  Sotan.)     i5th 

cent.     C.  R. 

Sosen    (Kano    Sosen,   not    to    be    con- 
founded  with    Mori    Sosen).       I7th 

cent.     K. 

Soyei.     1 5th  cent.     C.R. 
Soyen.     (Pupil  of  Sesshu.)     C.  R. 
Sugai  Baikan.     (d.  1844.)     M.  C. 
Sugawara  Hakuryo.     (Living.)     M.  C.« 
Sumiye  Buzen.     (d.  1810.)     M.  C. 
Sumiyoshi  Gukei.     (d.  1705.)     T. 
Sumiyoshi  Jokei.     (d.  1620.)     T. 
Sumiyoshi  Keion.     (d.  1202.)     T. 


PICTORIAL    ARTISTS 


Sumiyoshi  Keinin.     i3th  cent.     T. 
Sumiyoshi  Naiki.     igth  cent.     T. 
Suyeyori.      (Son   of    Motonobu.)      (d. 

1571.)   .K. 

Suzuki  Fuigen.     (Living.)     S. 
Suzuki  Gako.     (d.  1870.)     M.  C. 
Suzuki  Harunobu.     (d.  1770.)     U. 
Suzuki  Hyakunen.    (b.  1827.)    (Living.) 

M.  C. 
Suzuki  Hyakunen  (Taichin).     (Living.) 

S. 
Suzuki  Hyakusen  (Shonen).      (Living.) 

S. 

Suzuki  Kiitsu.     (Pupil  of  Hoitsu.)     T. 
Suzuki  Nanrei.     (Pupil  of  Toyo.)     (d. 

1844.)     S. 

Suzuki  Nanrei.     (d.  1847.)     M.  C. 
Taaka    Nikka.      (Pupil    of    Okamoto 

Toyohiko.)     S. 

Tachibana  Minko.     (d.  1765.)     U. 
Tachibana  Morikuni.     (d.  1624.)     K. 
Tachibe-no-komaro.     7th  cent.     B. 
Tachiwara  Kyosho.     (d.  1840.)     M.  C. 
Tadanobu.     igth  cent.     K. 
Taiso  Yoshitoshi.     (Pupil  of  Ichiyusai.) 

U. 

Takachika.     i2th  cent.     Ka. 
Takahashi  Kydson.     (d.  1868.)     M.  C. 
Takahisa  Aigai.     (d.  1843.)     M.  C. 
Takakane.     i3th  cent.    Ta. 
Takamitsu.     1 5th  cent.    T. 
Takamori.     (d.  1300.)     T. 
Takamori.     i4th  cent.     T. 
Takanobu     (or    Ukoon     Shogen.)      (d. 

1618.)     K. 

Takanobu.     i2th  cent.     Ka. 
Takashima  Chiharu.     (d.  1859.)     T.  ' 
Takashima  Takakane.     (d.  1309.)     T. 
Takata    Eiho.      Second    half    of    iSth 

cent.     K. 

Takayoshi.     nth  cent.     Ka. 
Takeda   Harunobu  (or  Shingen.)     i6th 

cent.     K. 

Takehara  Shuncho.     (d.  1730.)     U. 
Takehara  Shuncho.     (d.  1745.)     U. 
Takehara  Shunsen.     (d.  1770.)     U. 
Taki  Katei.     (Living.)     S. 
Tamate  Shoshu.     (d.  1875.)     M.  C. 
Tamenari.     i2th  cent.     Ta. 
Tameto.     1 2th  cent.     Ta. 
Tanaka  Nikka.     (d.  1841.)     S. 
Tanaka  Totsugen.     (d.  1823.)     T. 
Tanaka  Yubi.     (Living.)     S. 
Tanboku.     (d.  1832.)     K. 
Tani  Buncho.     (d.  1841.)     M.  C. 
Tani  Bunitsu.     (d.  1820.)     M.  C. 
Tangyu.     (d.  1714-)     K. 
Taniguchi  Aizan.     (Living.)     M.  C. 


Tanjo.     (d.  1756.)     K. 

Tanomura  Chikuden.    (d.  1835.)    M.  C. 

Tanomura  Chokunyu.  (b.  1817.)  (Liv- 
ing.) M.  C. 

Tanrin.     (d.  1777.)     K. 

Tansen.     (d.  1728.)     K. 

Tansetsu.     (Son  of  Tanyu.)     K. 

Tanshin  (Morimichi).     (d.  1835.)     K. 

Tanshin  (Morimasa).  (Son  of  Tanyu.) 
K. 

Tanyen  (Morihisa).     :8th  cent.     K. 

Tanyen  (Morizane).     (d.  1853.)     K. 

Tanyu  (Kano  Morinobu).    (d.  1674.)    K. 

TasakiSoun.    (b.  1815.)   (Living.)  M.  C. 

Tateba  Shocho.     (d.  1813.)     M.  C. 

Tatebayashi  Kaseki  (Shirai).  iSth  cent. 
T. 

Teijo.     nth  cent.     B. 

To  Kyujo.     (d.  1802.)     M.  C. 

To  Toyo.     (d.  1839.)     S. 

Todo  Ryoun.     (d.  1887.)     M.  C. 

Toichi  OgO.     (Living.)     M.  C. 

Tokinobu.     (d.  1678.)     K. 

Tokuta  Chikuin.     (d.  1755.)     K. 

Torii  Kiyofusa.  (Son  of  the  fourth 
Torii  Kiyomitsu.)  U. 

Torii  Kiyomasa.  (Son  of  Torii  Kiyo- 
nobu.)  U. 

Torii  Kyomitsu.  (Son  of  Torii  Kiyo- 
masa.) U. 

Torii  Kiyomitsu.  (Grandson  of  Torii 
Kiyomasa.)  U. 

Torii  Kiyomitsu.  (Great  grandson  of 
Torii  Kiyomasa.)  U. 

Torii  Kiyomitsu.  (Great-great-grand- 
son of  Torii  Kiyomasa.)  U. 

Torii  Kiyomune.  (Son  of  the  third  Torii 
Kiyomitsu.)  U. 

Torii  Kiyonaga.  (Son  of  the  first  Torii 
Kiyomitsu.)  U. 

Torii  Kyonobu.     (d.  1730.)     U. 

Torii  Kiyotsune.  (Son  of  Torii  Kiyo- 
naga.) U. 

Toriyama  Sekigen.     (d.  1768.)     U. 

Tosa  no  Shoi.     (d.  1612.)     U. 

Toshitsugu.     8th  cent.     B. 

Toshun.     1 5th  cent.     C.  R. 

Toshun  (Yoshinobu).     iSth  cent.     K. 

Totoki  Baigai.     (d.  1804.)     M.  C. 

Totoki  Baikei.     (d.  1803.)     M.  C. 

T6un  (Suwagadai  Kano).  (Pupil  of 
Tanyu.)  K. 

Toyo.     (Pupil  of  Sesshu.)     C.  R. 

Toyokiyo.  (Son  of  Utagawa  Toyohiro.) 
U. 

Toyonobu.  (Pupil  of  the  first  Kunisa- 
da.)  U. 

Tsubaki  Chinzan.     (d.  1854.)     M.  C. 


Tsugimaro.     8th  cent.     B. 
Tsukioka  Settei.     (d.  1786.)     U. 
Tsukioka  Settei.     (d.  1786.)     M.  C. 
Tsunemoto.     1 2th  cent.     To. 
Tsunenobu.     (d.  1713.)     K. 
Tsunetaka.     ijth  cent.     T. 
Tsurugawa  Tanshin.     (Living.)     K. 
Tsuruzawa  Tanzan.     (d.  1700.)     K. 
Tsutsumi  Masakatsu.     (d.  1780.)     U. 
Ukita    Ikkei    (Kai).     (Pupil  of  Tanaka 

Totsugen.)     (d.  1859.)     T. 
Unkaku  Togan.     (d.  1585.)     C.  R. 
Unkaku  Toeki.    (Son  of  Togan.)    C.  R. 
Unkaku  Toyo.    (Son  of  Unkaku  Toeki.) 

1 7th  cent.     K. 
Unkei.     (d.  1505.)     C.  R. 
Unshitsu.     (d.  1827.)     M.  C. 
Uozumi  Kwangyo.     (d.  1896.)     T. 
Uragami  Gyokudo.     (d.  1820.)     M.  C. 
Uragami  Shunkin.     (d.  1846.)     M.  C. 
Utagawa    Kuniyoshi    (Itchinsai).       (d. 

1861.)     U. 

Utagawa  Toyoharu.  (d.  1814.)  U. 
Utagawa  Toyohiro.  (d.  1828.)  U. 
Utagawa  Toyokuni  (or  Kunisada).  (It- 

chosai.)     (d.  1825.)     U. 
Utagawa  Toyokuni  (Kochoro,  or  Goto- 

tei ;  the  third  Toyokuni).     (d.  1864.) 

U. 

Watanabe  Gentai.     (d.  1822.)    M.  C. 
Watanabe  Kwazan.     (d.  1829.)     M.  C. 
Watanabe  Kyoshi.     (d.  1855.)     T. 
Watanabe  Rogaku.     (d.  1813.)     S. 
Watanabe   Shiko.       (Contemporary    of 

Okio.)     T. 

Watanabe  Shoka.     (d.  1887.)     M.  C. 
Yagi  Sonsho.     (d.  1836.)     M.  C. 
Yamada  Bunko.     (Living.)     S. 
Yamada  Doan.     loth  cent.     C.  R. 
Yamada  Hoshu.     (d.  1814.)     M.  C. 
Yamaguchi  Sekkei.     (d.  1730.)     K. 
Yamaguchi  Soken.    (Pupil  of  Okio.)  S. 
Yamana  Kwangi.     (Living.)     T. 
Yamamoto  Baiitsu.     (d.  1857.)     M.  C. 
Yamamoto  Jokoku.     (Living.)     S. 
Yamamoto  Joshun.     (d.  1783.)     M.  C. 
Yamamoto  Sotei.    (Pupil  of  Tanyu).   K. 
Yamamoto  Yoshinobu.     (d.  1772.)     U. 
Yamato-no-Ataye.     7th  cent.     B. 
Yamawaki  Toki.      (Pupil   of  Gekkei.) 

(d.  1842.)     S. 


Yamazaki  T5sen.     (Living.)     S. 

Yasuda  Beisai.     (d.  1888.)     M.  C. 

Yasuda  Rozan.     (d.  1883.)     M.  C. 

Yasunobu.     (d.  1798.)     K.   . 

Yasunobu.     (d.  1685.)     K. 

Yeigaku.     (d.  1836.)     K. 

Yeihaku.     i8th  cent.     K. 

Yeijo.     1 8th  cent.     K. 

YeikyS.     (d.  1755.)     K. 

Yeini.     (d.  1697.)     K. 

Yeiryo.     i8th  cent.     K. 

Yeisen.     (d.  1790.)     K. 

Yeisen.     (d.  1731.)     K. 

Yeisetsu.     igth  cent.     K. 

Yeisho.     (d.  1710.)     K. 

Yeishu.     1 5th  cent.     T. 

Yeishun.     i8th  and  igth  cent.     K. 

Yenchin.     gth  cent.     B. 

Yendo  Kwanshu.      (5.1829.)      (Living.) 

T. 

Yogetsu.     (Pupil  of  Sesshu.)     C.  R. 
Yokoyama  Kwazan.     (Pupil  of  Ganku.) 

d.  1839.     S. 
Yosen.     (d.  1808.)     K. 
Yosha   Busan   (called    also    Shunsei   or 

Yahantei).     (d.  1783.)     M.  C. 
Yoshichika.     loth  cent.     B. 
Yoshimaro.      (Pupil   of   first   Kitakawa 

Utamaro )     U. 
Yoshimitsu.     (cl.  1301.)     T. 
Yoshimura  Kokei.     (Pupil  of  Okio.)    (d. 

1836.)     S. 

Yoshimura  Shuzan.     i8th  cent.     K. 
Yoshimura  Tansen.     (d.  1778.)     K. 
Yoshitaka.     loth  cent.     B. 
Yoshizawa  Setsuan.     (Living.)     M.  C. 
Yuge    Tosatsu.     (Pupil    of    Shugetsu.) 

C.  R. 

Yuhi  (Kumashiro).     (d.  1772.)     M.  C. 
Yukihide.     i5th  cent.     T. 
Yukihiro.     i4th  cent.     T. 
Yukimaro.     (Pupil  of  first  Kitakawa  Uta- 
maro.)    U. 

Yukimitsu.     (d.  1359).     T. 
Yukinobu  (or  Utanosuke).     (Son  of  Ma- 

sanobu.)     K. 

Yukitada.     i4th  cent.     Ko. 
Yuyeki  (Tomomasu).     1 7th  cent.     K. 
Yuzen.    (d.  1720.)    U. 


10 


NAMES  AND   ERAS 

OF 

JAPANESE    ARTIST    ARTIZANS 

OTHER   THAN 

KERAMISTS   AND    SCULPTORS   OF 
SWORD-FURNITURE 


N.B.     A  few  of  the  names  in  this  list  appear  also  in  the  List  of  Sword-Furniture 
Chisellers.     That  is  because  of  the  general  character  of  their  work. 


Aichiku.  igthcent.  (d.  1896.)  A  wood- 
carver  of  Echizen. 

Akiyama.  Present  day.  Wood-carver 
in  the  style  of  Matsumoto  Kisaburo, 
whom  he  accompanied  to  Tokyo 
from  Kumamoto. 

Anraku.  igth  cent.  (d.  1893.)  A  net- 
suke-carver  of  Osaka,  pupil  of 
Kaigyokusai. 

Arakawa.  Beiun.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  wood-carver  of  Tokyo,  mid- 
way between  the  old  and  the  new 
schools. 

Araki.  Kihei.  i  yth  cent.  Pupil  of  Na- 
gosVii  Masataka.  Metal-founder. 

Ariyoshi.  Nagato.  igth  cent.  (d.  1890.) 
Originally  a  mask-carver  of  great 
skill,  he  became  a  worker  in  metals 
after  1870.  Some  fine  netsuke  in  the 
form  of  masks  were  produced  by 
him.  His  art  name  was  Mori  Ryoken. 

Asada.  Sahichi.  Present  day.  A 
highly  skilled  worker  in  cloisonne 
enamel,  chiefly  remarkable  for  trans- 
luced  pastes  run  over  gold  and  sil- 
ver, which  are  chiselled  in  various 
designs,  or  carry  subjects  worked  in 
enamels  of  stronger  colours. 

Asahi.  Sho.  igth  cent.  (d.  1890).  A 
carver  and  engraver  of  Tokyo. 

Asahi.  Meido.  Present  day.  A  skilled 
ivory -carver  of  Tokyo ;  pupil  of 
Gyokkin  of  Kyoto  and  Ishikawa 
Mitsuaki  of  Tokyo. 


Asahi.  Gyokuzan.  Present  day.  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Kyoto,  celebrated 
for  chiselling  skulls. 

Asai.  Hidejiro.  Worker  in  cloisonne 
enamels ;  pupil  of  Hara  Fujio. 

Asai.  Bansaburo.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels  ;  pupil  of  Kaji  Tsune- 
kichi. 

Awada-guchi.  A  mark  found  on  net- 
suke of  Miwa's  time.  It  has  not 
been  identified. 

Bazan.  Present  day.  A  highly  skilled 
wood-carver  of  Gifu.  He  has  carved 
a  string  of  cash  on  a  straw  rope  so 
that  each  cash  moves. 

Benkichi.  igth  cent.  (d.  1865.)  A 
wood-carver  of  Ono  in  Kaga.  He 
excelled  in  chiselling  a  multitude  of 
cranes,  deer,  etc.,  in  relief  on  a  flat 
field.  Also  made  mechanical  toys. 

Chiujiro.     (d.  1800.)     Metal-founder. 

Chounsai.  igth  cent.  (d.  1885.)  A  net- 
suke-shi  of  Yedo  (Tokyo) ;  pupil  of 
Tomochika. 

Daikokuya.  Toyemon.  iSth  cent.  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Kyoto. 

Deme.  Uman.  iSth  cent.  The  Soken 
Kisho  says :  "  Deme  was  a  native  of 
Yedo,  and  a  mask-maker  by  profes- 
sion. It  appears  that  this  artist 
carved  as  a  pastime  only.  He  had 
a  natural  gift  for  carving  netsuke  in 
the  form  of  a  mask,  and  none  could 
surpass  him  in  such  work.  There 


II 


ARTIST    ARTIZANS 


was  also  a  sculptor  named  Deme  Jo- 
man,  supposed  to  be  a  son  of  Deme 
Uman,  who  possessed  great  glyptic 
ability.  No  carvings  except  those 
of  masks  bear  the  name  "  Deme." 

Doki.  Minasuke.  Worker  in  cloisonne 
enamels;  pupil  of  Hara  Fujio. 

Donin.     i7th  cent.     Metal-founder. 

DSraku.  igth  cent.  (d.  1895.)  A  net- 
suke  -  carver  of  Osaka ;  pupil  of 
Kaigyokusai. 

Doya.  1 7th  cent.  Called  also  Yaichiro 
or  Yazayemon.  Art  names,  Yoshi- 
toshi  and  Doya.  Metal-founder. 

Doya.  iyth  and  1 8th  cent.  Called  also 
Yaichiro  or  Yazayemon.  Art  name, 
Doya.  Metal-founder. 

Doya.  1 8th  cent.  Called  also  Yaza- 
yemon, or  Tomoyoshi.  Metal- 
founder. 

Doya.  1 8th  cent.  Ryoshin.  Metal- 
founder. 

Doya.  1 8th  cent.  Shichiyemon.  Metal- 
founder. 

Doya.  1 9th  cent.  Shichiyemon,  or  Ya- 
zayemon. Metal-founder. 

f    Workers   in   cloi- 

Fugita.     Shigeo.       I     sonne       enamels ; 

Fugita.     Yonejiro.    ]     pupils     of     Hara 
^    Fujio. 

Fukawa.  Kazuo.  Present  day.  An 
eminent  metal-sculptor. 

Fusa.  1 8th  cent.  (d.  1776.)  A  carver  of 
Nara-mingyo.  Called  also  "  Kogan 
Shoyei  Shinji,"  and  commonly 
"  Manzoku." 

Garaku.  i8th  cent.  A  skilled  netsuke- 
carver  of  Osaka  and  pupil  of  Tawa- 
raya  Dembei. 

Gechiu.  iSth  cent.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says.:  "  Nothing  is  known  of  this 
artist,  but  his  name  appears  upon 
some  fine  carvings." 

Genryosai.  i8th  cent.  An  ivory-carver 
of  Kyoto ;  one  of  the  best  of  the 
early  netsuke-shi.  A  contemporary 
of  Miwa,  who  worked  in  wood. 
Genryosai  and  Miwa  were  called  the 
nifuku-tsui  (pair  of  pictures)  of  their 
century. 

Gessho.  1 8th  cent.  (end).  A  netsuke- 
carver  of  Nagoya.  Bold  and  some- 
what rough  in  style. 

Gido.  1 9th  cent.  (d.  1837.)  A  great 
bronze-caster  of  Yedo.  Zenriusai 
Gido  was  his  art  name ;  Suwara 
Yasugoro,  his  ordinary  name. 

Giji.    (d.  1776.)  Hikokuro.  Metal-caster. 


GoheL     (d.  1782.)     Metal-founder. 

Gorozayemon.  (d.  1786.)    Metal-founder. 

Gyokkin.  igth  cent.  (d.  1885.)  A  skilled 
netsuke-shi  of  Kyoto. 

Gyokumin.  igth  cent.  (d.  1861.)  A  net- 
suke-shi of  Osaka. 

Hada.  Kusaroku.  Present  time.  Pupil 
of  Shihb  Ampei.  .A  great  expert  of 
Kaga,  where  many  of  the  finest  mod- 
ern bronzes  are  made. 

Hakuriu.  igth  cent.  (d.  1873.)  A  net- 
suke-carver  of  Kyoto.  He  was  a 
samurai  of  Unshiu,  and  his  favorite 
subjects  were  dragons,  tigers,  and 
Dogs  of  Fo  (shishi). 

Hananuma.  Masakichi.  Present  day. 
A  wood-carver  of  Yokohama  who 
works  for  the  foreign  market. 

Hara.  Fujio.  Worker  in  cloisonne  en- 
amels ;  pupil  of  Hara  Kiyozaburo. 

Hara.  Kiyosaburo.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels;  pupil  of  Isaburo. 

Haruchika.  i8th  cent.  A  skilled  net- 
suke-carver. 

Hasegawa.  Kumazo.  Present  day. 
A  highly  skilled  metal-founder  of 
Tokyo ;  works  in  the  style  of  the 
great  bronze  casters  Seimin  and 
Toun. 

Hata.  Tomofusa.  i8th  cent.  A  net- 
suke-carver  of  Mimasaka.  He  was 
a  lacquerer  by  profession,  and  his 
netsuk.es  are  all  lacquered. 

Hayashi.  Shogoro.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels;  pupil  of  Kaji  Tsune- 
kichi. 

Hidari.  Jingoro.  i6th  and  i7th  cent, 
(d.  1635.)  One  of  the  greatest  of 
Japanese  wood-carvers. 

Hidari.  Soshin.  i7th  cent.  Son  of 
Hidari  Jingoro, and  an  almost  equally 
skilled  sculptor  in  wood. 

Hidari.  Katsumasa.  I7th  and  i8th 
cent.  Grandson  of  Hidari  Jingoro. 
A  renowned  sculptor  in  wood. 

Hidari.  Issan.  i8th  cent.  (end).  A 
skilled  carver  of  wooden  netsuke 
who  worked  in  Yedo. 

Hijikata.  Tobioye.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels  ;  pupil  of  Kaji  Tsune- 
kichi. 

Hirata.  Soko.  Present  day.  A  skilled 
uchimono-shi  of  Tokyo. 

Hiratsuka,  Mohei.  1 9th  cent,  (d.  1840.) 
A  worker  in  cloisonne  enamel  who 
used  translucid  pastes  with  success 
for  making  ojime,  Kagami-buta,  and 
Kama-mono. 


12 


ARTIST    A  RTIZ  ANS 


Hiratsuka.  Kinnosuke.  Present  day. 
Son  of  Hiratsukt  Mohei.  A  skilled 
worker  in  cloisonne  enamels.  Re- 
markable for  having  introduced 
(1887)  the  style  known  as  Hirata- 
jippo  ;  namely,  enamel  designs  sus- 
pended in  the  reticulations  of  silver 
vases  chiselled  d  jour. 

Hitotsuyanagi.  Kisuke.  A  worker  in 
cloisonne  enamels ;  pupil  of  Kato 
Yasubiyoye. 

Hojutsu.  igth  cent.  (d.  1885.)  A  net- 
suke-shi  of  Kyoto,  one  of  the 
greatest  in  Japan.  He  had  a  com- 
petence of  his  own  as  a  samurai, 
and  his  profession  was  that  of 
instructor  in  military  science,  —  as 
was  the  case  with  Ogino  Shomin, 
—  but  his  passionate  love  for  carv- 
ing compelled  him  to  take  it  up.  A 
pupil  of  Ogino  Shomin,  and  after- 
wards of  Shibayama  Soichi,  he 
learned  from  the  latter  the  art  of 
inlaying  with  mother-of-pearl  and 
decorating  with  gold  lacquer;  and 
many  of  his  productions  were  thus 
distinguished.  Art  name,  Mei- 
kunsai. 

Hori.  Yosai.  (d.  1796.)  Said  to  have 
been  a  pupil  of  Yamashiro  Hori 
Joho.  Metal-founder. 

Hoshin.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto.  The  Soken  Kisho  says : 
"  He  worked  in  ivory,  and  made 
a  specialty  of  carving  a  partially 
opened  clam  with  buildings  inside, 
and  other  subjects  of  that  class." 

N.B.  The  buildings  in  the  clam  are  supposed 
to  be  the  palace  of  the  dragon  king  —  Riu-no-jo 
—  at  the  bottom  of  the  ocean.  This  motive  has 
often  been  copied. 

Houn.  igth  cent  (d.  1858.)  A  busshi 
of  Yedo  (Tokyo) ;  brother  of  Hozan. 

Hozan.  igth  cent.  (d.  1860.)  A  skilled 
busshi  of  Yedo  (Tokyo). 

Ichiraku.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-maker 
of  Sakai  in  Izumi.  The  Soken 
Kisho  says:  "His  family  name  was 
Tsuchiya,  and  his  art-name  Betoken. 
He  was  the  first  to  make  girdle- 
pendants  by  plaiting  rattans  or  fine 
wistaria.  His  calabash-shaped  net- 
suke  of  these  materials  are  well- 
known."  (This  style  of  plaiting 
was  suggested  originally  by  Chinese 
snuff -bottles.  It  is  called  "  Ichiraku- 
gri,"  after  the  name  of  its  Japanese 
originator.) 


Ikkan.  igth  cent.  (d.  1885.)  A  net- 
suke-carver of  Nagoya. 

Ikko.  1 9th  cent.  (d.  1858.)  A  net- 
suke-carver of  Kyoto,  who  worked 
also  in  the  Shibayama  style.  He  is 
said  to  have  been  regarded  as  an 
imbecile,  and  to  have  been  unable 
to  tie  his  own  girdle  up  to  the  age 
of  19.  Nevertheless,  without  re- 
ceiving any  instruction,  he  became  a 
great  carver. 

Ikkosai.  igth  cent.  (d.  iSSo)  A  net- 
suke-carver of  Yedo  ;  pupil  of  To- 
mochika. 

Insai.  1 8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver  of 
Osaka.  The  Soken  Kisho  says :  "  He 
became  famous  for  carving  ivory 
netsuke  representing  the  Sarumaw- 
ashi  (monkey-leader). 

Isaburo.  A  worker  in  cloisonne  enam- 
els; pupil  of  Kaji  Tsunekichi. 

Ishikawa  (Mitsuaki).  igth  cent.  (d. 
1835.)  A  wood-carver  of  Kyoto. 

Ishikawa  (Toyomitsu).  Present  day. 
An  ivory  caiver  of  great  skill ;  pupil 
of  Kikugawa  Masamitsu.  He  was 
the  first  to  receive  the  title  of  Gigei- 
in  (artist  to  the  Imperial  Court)  in 
1890.  Father  of  Ishikawa  Mitsuaki. 
Works  in  Tokyo.  Called  also 
Komei. 

Ishikawa.  Mitsuaki.  Present  day.  One 
of  the  leading  ivory-carvers  of  the 
era.  His  ancestors,  through  seven 
generations,  were  sculptors.  His 
specialty  is  the  carving  of  barn-door 
fowls,  monkeys,  human  figures,  etc., 
which  he  fastens  into  wooden  plaques. 
Mitsuaki  is  a  teacher  in  the  Fine 
Arts  School,  and  has  a  large  atelier 
of  his  own  in  Tokyo,  where  many 
netsuke  and  ivory  alcove  ornaments 
are  produced  for  the  foreign  market. 

Ishikawa.  Katsuyemon.  igth  cent, 
(early  part).  A  skilled  decorative 
wood-carver  (miya-bori-shi)  of  Yedo. 
He  executed  the  carvings  on  some 
of  the  gates  of  several  temples  and 
mausolea;  notably  those  of  Nikko, 
Hongwan-ji,andShiba.  Grandfather 
of  Ishikawa  Mitsuaki. 

Ittan.  igth  cent,  (middle).  A  net- 
suke-carver of  Nagoya. 

ItO.  Tosuke.  A  worker  in  cloisonne 
enamels  ;  pupil  of  Kaji  Tsunekichi. 

ItO.  Katsumi  Masataka.  Present  day. 
(b.  1829.)  Originally  called  Shosai. 
A  metal  sculptor  of  the  highest  skill ; 


ARTIST    ARTIZ  ANS 


loth  representative  of  the  Ito  family, 
founded  by  Ito  Masanaga,  who  with 
all  his  descendants  down  to  the  pres- 
ent representative,  were  makers  of 
sword-guards  for  the  Tokugawa 
Shoguns.  A  pupil  of  the  celebrated 
Toriusai;  he  was  adopted  into  the 
Ito  family  in  1860,  his  rival  for  that 
honour  being  Kano  Natsuo.  After 
1867  he  began  to  carve  plaques, 
paper-weights,  etc.  He  uses  the 
marks  Katsumi  and  Taikiu. 

Ito.  Kojiro.  Present  day.  A  jade- 
carver  of  Echizen. 

Itsumin.  Present  day.  A  netsuke- 
carver  of  Nagoya,  skilled  in  the 
style  called  Jidai-bori  (ancient  car- 
ving) ;  i.e.,  the  greatest  effect  with 
the  smallest  use  of  the  chisel. 

lyemasa.  (d.  1626.)  Called  also  Ya- 
goro  and  Zuiyetsu.  The  third  son 
of  Nagoshi  Zensho.  Granted  the 
rank  of  Etchiu  no  Shojo.  Being 
appointed  founder  to  the  Tokugawa 
Shoguns,  he  repaired  every  year  to 
Yedo.  Metal-founder. 

Izamiya.    (1765-1800).    Netsuke-carver. 

Jinnosuke.  i7th  cent.  Pupil  of  Nago- 
shi Masataka.  Metal-founder. 

Jirobei.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Osaka.  He  was  famous  for  pipe- 
cases  of  horn,  having  dragons  chis- 
elled on  them. 

Jitsugyoku.  igth  cent.  (d.  1892.)  A 
skilled  netsuke-carver  of  Tokyo ; 
pupil  of  Hojustsu. 

Jiuzo.  1 8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver  of 
Wakayama,  Kishiu.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says :  "  He  is  very  skilful.  His  work 
resembles  that  of  Ogasawara  Issai, 
and  he  will  doubtless  improve  much 
as  he  grows  older." 

Jochi.  1 7th  cent.  A  pupil  of  Nagoshi 
Masataka  (q.  v.).  His  family  name 
was  Hori.  Metal-founder. 

Jogen.  There  were  three  of  this  name. 
All  had  the  common  name  of  Seiye- 
mon,  and  lived  in  the  i8th  cent. 
Metal-founders. 

Jokiu,  (d.  1685.)  A  celebrated  metal- 
founder.  Son  of  Onishi  Josei.  He 
cast  tea-urns  decorated  with  pine 
sprays  in  relief;  others  in  the  form 
of  folded  paper,  a  gourd,  a  rice-bag, 
an  old- woman's  mouth,  etc. 

Jorin.     (d.  1727.)     An  eminent  founder. 

Joriu.  igth  cent.  (d.  1835.)  A  net- 
suke-shi  of  Osaka. 


Josei.  1  7th  cent.  Family  name  Onishi. 
A  metal-founder  of  Kyoto. 

Josetsu.  i8th  cent.  Sanyemon.  Metal- 
founder. 

Joun.  A  pupil  of  Onishi  Josei  (q.  v.). 
Seiyemon.  Metal-founder. 

Jugyaku.  igth  cent.  (d.  1893.)  A 
skilled  netsuke-shi  of  Tokyo  ;  pupil 
of  the  second  Riukei. 

Jukwa.  (First  half  of  igth  cent.)  Net- 
suke-carver. 

Jutei.  (End  of  i8th  cent.)  Netsuke- 
carver. 

Kagetoshi.  (igth  cent.)  (d.  1868).  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Kyoto.  Highly 
skilled  in  the  style  called  Kanton- 
bori  (Canton  carving),  that  is  to  say, 
work  of  microscopic  delicacy,  as 
landscapes  and  mythical  scenes 
chiselled  inside  a  clam  shell,  the 
whole  in  solid  ivory.  He  carved  a 
view  of  Itsukushima  shrine  within  a 
space  of  two  inches,  so  accurate  in 
detail  that  the  sacred  bell  swings  in 
its  frame. 

Kaigyokusai.  igth  cent.  (d.  1892.)  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Osaka,  one  of  the 
greatest  that  Japan  has  produced. 
His  name  was  Yasunaga  Kizayemon. 
At  first  he  used  the  mark  "  Masat- 
sugu,"  but  by  and  by  he  changed 
it  to  "Kaigyoku  Masatsugu,"  and 
finally  to  "  Kaigyokusai."  He  ab- 
solutely declined  to  carve  anything 
that  did  not  take  his  fancy,  but 
when  he  had  commenced  a  work, 
he  scarcely  laid  it  aside  until  it  was 
finished.  He  gave  all  his  carvings 
to  charitable  purposes. 

f  Workers     in 

Kainuma.     Zenzayemon.J  doisonn^  en' 
Kainuma.     Kozay'emon. 


nekichi. 

Kaji.  Tsunekichi.  igth  cent.  (d.  1883.) 
A  worker  in  cloisonne  enamels  at 
Nagoya.  He  was  the  first  to  pro- 
duce objects  of  any  size  decorated 
wholly  with  cloisonne  enamels. 

Kaji.  Sataro.  Present  day.  A  worker 
in  cloisonne  enamel,  grandson  of 
Kaji  Tsunekichi.  He  adopts  the 
Chinese  style. 

Kamata.  Sadakuni.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels  ;  pupil  of  Kaji  Tsune- 
kichi. 

Kamaya.  Higo.  i8th  cent.  A  great 
netsuke-carver  of  Osaka.  He  was 


ARTIST    ARTIZ  ANS 


originally  a  maker  of  peep-show 
boxes,  but  afterwards  devoted  him- 
self to  carving  artificial  teeth  and 
netsuke. 

Kame.  1 7th  cent.  Called  Kame-jo  (the 
woman  Kame).  A  skilled  bronze- 
caster  of  Nagasaki. 

Kameyama.  Josetsu.  Present  day.  One 
of  the  best  wood-carvers  of  Osaka; 
pupil  of  Kyoyen  (V.  Morikawa). 
Kanaya.  Gorosaburo.  1 7th  cent.  Set- 
tled in  Kyoto  in  1625,  and  soon 
acquired  an  unrivalled  reputation  for 
skill,  not  only  in  casting  and  chisel- 
ling bronzes,  but  also  for  patina, 
called  Gorosa-iro  (Gorosa  color). 
There  have  been  ten  generations  of 
the  Kanaya  family,  all  called  Gorosa- 
buro. They  are  distinguished  only 
by  their  posthumous  names.  The 
following  is  the  list :  — 

Gorosaburo  (i).  (d.  1660.)  Posthu- 
mous name,  Doyen. 

Gorosaburo  (2).  (d.  1716.)  Posthu- 
mous name,  Nichizui. 

Gorosaburo  (3).  (d.  1779.)  Posthu- 
mous name,  Sokuyen. 

Gorosaburo  (4).  (d.  1772.)  Posthu- 
mous name,  Enshin. 

Gorosaburo  (5).  (d.  1817.)  Posthu- 
mous name,  Ichiryo. 

Gorosaburo  (6).  (d.  1825.)  Posthu- 
mous name,  Soyen. 

Gorosaburo  (7).  (d.  1848.)  Posthu- 
mous name,  Ichijo. 

Gorosaburo  (8).  (d.  1873.)  Posthu- 
mous name,  Nichiyen. 

Gorosaburo  (9).  (d.  1889.)  Posthu- 
mous name,  Ryoki.  This  was  one 
of  the  greatest  of  the  family.  He 
enriched  his  country  with  many 
beautiful  works. 

Gorosaburo  (10).     Present  time. 
Kanchi.     Miyazaki.      (d.    1728.)      Hiko- 
kuro  and  Naoyoshi.     Metal-founder. 
Kanchi.      Miyazaki.      (d.    1773.)      Nao- 
nobu    Shoshin.     Known    in    Kaga, 
where  he  worked,  as  "  Zeni-ya  Kan- 
chi" (Kanchi,  the  coiner).     A  great 
metal-founder. 

Kanchi.  I7th  and  i8th  cent.  Family 
name,  Miyasaki,  and  personal  name, 
Hikosaburo.  Called  also,  Giichi, 
and  generally  spoken  of  as  Niudo 
Kanchi.  (d.  1712.)  Said  to  have 
been  a  pupil  of  Nagoshi  Sansho, 
but  as  the  latter  died  in  1638,  the 
statement  is  apocryphal.  Worked 


in  Kaga.  A  celebrated  metal- 
founder. 

Kaneda.  Kanejiro.  Present  day.  An 
ivory-carver  of  Tokyo.  Some  re- 
markably large  works  have  been 
turned  out  in  his  atelier,  notably 
ivory  eagles,  measuring  5  feet  across 
the  wings.  The  heads  of  these 
birds  were  chiselled  by  Ishikawa 
Mitsuaki  (q.  v.).  Kaneda's  artizans 
have  all  been  trained  by  Ishikawa  or 
Shimamura. 

Kanjuro.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Osaka.  The  Soken  Kisho  says :  — 
"  He  carved  human  figures  having 
the  faces  and  limbs  of  ivory  and  the 
costume,  etc.,  in  ebony. 

Karamono-ya.  Kiubyoye.  i8th  cent. 
A  netsuke-carver  of  Sakai,  in  Izumi. 
The  Soken  Kisho  says :  "  This  artist 
was  by  profession  a  bronze-founder 
(Karamono-ya).  His  netsukes  are 
of  bronze,  and  generally  take  the 
form  of  the  Kuwara-netsuke  (vide 
note  under  Riusa's  name)  orsuigara- 
ake,  "  pipe-ash-holder,"  (vide  note 
under  Toshinaga's  name). 

Kashiu.  i8th  cent.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says :  "  Nothing  is  known  of  this 
artist  beyond  the  fact  that  the  above 
ideographs,  supposed  to  represent 
his  name,  are  engraved  on  some  fine 
.netsuke." 

KatO.  Tamejuro.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels ;  pupil  of  Kato  Ya- 
subiyoye. 

Kato.  Heishichi.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels ;  pupil  of  Kato  Ya- 
subiyoye. 

Kato.  Yasubiyoye.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels ;  pupil  of  Kaji  Tsu- 
nekichi. 

Kawai.  Yoritake.  iSlh  cent.  A  net- 
suke-carver of  Kyoto.  The  Soken 
Kisho  says  :  "  He  was  a  sculptor  of 
idols  by  profession.  His  netsuke 
are  exceedingly  clever  and  well-fin- 
ished, and  always  show  some  pecul- 
iarity of  style.  He  may  be  classed 
as  an  artist  of  special  originality,  and 
his  works  will  certainly  increase  in 
value  as  years  go  by. 

Kazaoka.  Renyemon.  A  worker  in 
cloisonne  enamels ;  pupil  of  Kaji 
Tsunekichi. 

Kempaku.  (d.  1820.)  Joyetsu.  Metal- 
founder. 

Kensai.     igth  cent.     (d.  1592.)     A  net- 


ARTIST    ARTIZANS 


suke-carver  of  Nagoya;  pupil  of 
Masakazu. 

Kichibiyoye.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke- 
carver. 

Kikugawa.  Masamitsu.  Present  day. 
A  skilled  ivory-carver  of  Tokyo. 

Kimura.     Heiji.      Vide  Toun. 

Kimura.  Yokichi.  Worker  in  cloisonne 
enamels;  pupil  of  Hara  Fujio. 

Kobayashi.  Shokei.  Present  day.  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Nagoya ;  pupil  of 
Masakazu. 

Kodani.  igth  cent.  (d.  1865.)  A  net- 
suke-shi  of  Osaka. 

Kohosai.  1 9th  cent.  (d.  1882.)  A  net- 
suke-carver of  Osaka ;  pupil  of  Mit- 
suhiro. 

Kojiro.     (d.  1778.)     Metal-founder. 

Kujutsu.  i gth  cent.  (d.  1890.)  A 
skilled  netsuke-shi  of  Tokyo;  pupil 
of  Hojutsu. 

Kokei.  Nine  generations  of  this  family 
lived  and  worked  in  Yedo,  where 
they  were  regarded  as  highly  skilled 
busshi.  The  Yedo  family,  a  branch 
of  the  Nara  Kohei,  goes  back  to  the 
middle  of  the  i7th  century.  Its 
records  are  obscure,  but  the  repre- 
sentatives are  said  to  have  borne  the 
names  KShei  and  Zenkei  in  alternate 
generations.  Several  of  them  had 
the  art  rank  of  Hokyo.  The  ninth 
representative  was  the  teacher  of 
Hozan  and  H5un. 

Komin.  igthcent.  (1865.)  A  netsuke- 
shi  of  Osaka. 

Konoki.  Tokutaro.  Present  day.  Wood- 
carver  in  the  style  of  Yamamoto 
Kisaburo  (q.v.) ;  the  inventor  of  a 
species  of  very  durable  lacquer  for 
covering  sculptures.  Works  in  To- 
kyo. 

Koyoken.  Yoshinaga.  i8th  cent.  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Kyoto. 

KSzui.  1 7th  cent.  Pupil  of  Nogoshi 
Masataka.  Metal-founder. 

Kuhei.  1 7th  cent.  Family  name  Nish- 
imura,  and  commonly  called  lyehisa. 
A  pupil  of  Jomi  (Nagoya  Sansho). 

Kuribara.  Keisai.  igth  cent.  (d.  1868.) 
A  skilled  bronze-caster  of  Yedo. 

Kurobei.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver. 
The  Soken  Kisho  says  :  "  He  lived  in 
Nagamachi,  Osaka,  and  produced 
colored  netsuke,  imitating  the  glyptic 
style  of  Shuzan,  to  whom,  however, 
he  was  much  inferior." 

Kuwamura.      Tsunejiro.        Worker     in 


cloisonne  enamels;  pupil  of  Hara 
Fujio. 

Maizono.  Genwo.  igth  cent.  (d.  1870.) 
A  worker  in  cloisonne  enamels  of 
Kanazawa  (in  Kaga).  Celebrated 
for  his  enamels  in  the  Chinese  style. 

Manjiya.  Hisayasu.  1 7th  and  1 8th  cent. 
A  skilled  wood-carver  of  Toyama. 
The  successive  representatives  of 
this  family  followed  the  profession 
of  wood-sculptors  until  modern  times. 

Masaharu.  (d.  1880.)  Yagoro.  Metal- 
founder. 

Masakazu.  igth  cent.  (d.  1885.)  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Nagoya;  highly 
skilled. 

Masakira.  (d.  1828.)  Kemmei  or  Ip- 
pusan.  Metal-founder. 

Masamichi.  (d.  1762.)  Yagoro.  Metal- 
founder. 

Masanao.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto.  The  Soken  Kisho  says : 
"  His  skill  in  carving  was  great.  He 
worked  in  both  ivory  and  wood,  and 
his  productions  are  much  prized." 

Masanobu.  igth  cent.  Netsuke-carver. 
Kyoto. 

Masataka.  (d.  1851.)  Gonjiro  and  Ya- 
goro. Metal-founder. 

Masatoshi.  i9th  cent.  (d.  1880.)  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Nagoya. 

Masatsugu.  Present  day.  A  netsuke- 
carver  of  Osaka ;  grandson  of  Kai- 
gyokusai. 

Masatsune.  igth  cent.  (d.  1846.)  A 
celebrated  bronze-caster  of  Yedo. 

Masayoshi.  (d.  1865.)  Yagoro.  Met- 
al-founder. 

Masayoshi.  igth  cent.  (d.  1859.)  A 
netsuke-shi  of  Osaka. 

Masayoshi.  (d.  1746.)  Yagoro.  Met- 
al-founder. 

Masayuki.  igth  cent.  (d.  1894.)  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Osaka ;  pupil  of 
Kaigyokusai. 

Matsuda.  Ry5cho.  i  gth  cent.  Netsuke- 
carver  of  Takayama  is  Hida. 

Matayemon.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke- 
carver  of  Kishiu.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says :  "  He  had  skill  of  a  very  high 
order,  and  even  now  (1781),  when 
good  netsuke  are  found,  dealers  are 
fond  of  attributing  them  to  Mataye- 
mon of  Kishiu. 

Matsumoto.  Kisaburo.  (d.  1890.)  A 
wood-carver  of  remarkable  force ; 
originator  of  the  natural  school  (vide 
text). 


16 


ARTIST    ARTIZANS 


Matsumoto.  Ryozan.  igth  cent.  (d. 
1860.)  Called  also  Kimbei ;  con- 
temporary of  Houn  (q.  v.).  Wood- 
carver.  Carved  the  figure  of  Fudo 
at  Naruta  (hence  received  the  name 
of  "  Fudo  Kimbei "  ),  and  the  figures 
of  500  Rishi  in  the  Naruta  temple. 

Meikei.  First  half  of  igth  cent.  Net- 
suke-carver. 

Miao.  Yeisuke.  Present  day.  A  bronze- 
founder  of  Yokohama. 

Michimasa.  (d.  1690.)  Yagoro.  Metal- 
founder. 

Minko.  There  were  three  netsuke-shi  of 
this  name.  The  first  was  a  contem- 
porary of  Miwa,  and  is  separately 
noticed.  The  second,  a  woman, 
worked  in  the  Tempo  era  (1830-43), 
and  the  third,  Tsunohan  Minko,  was 
a  great  sculptor,  who  died  about  the 
year  1850. 

Minko.  1 8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Tsu  in  Ise.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says :  "His  skill  in  wood-carving  is 
very  remarkable,  especially  in  the 
production  of  ingenious  and  interest- 
ing figures.  For  example,  he  will 
carve  a  Daruma  with  eyes  that  turn 
in  the  head.  His  works  are  much 
liked,  and  his  skill  may  be  inferred 
from  the  fact  that  though  he  is  still 
(1781)  living,  there  are  many  imita- 
tions of  his  netsuke." 

Mitsubashi.  Riuun.  igth  cent.  (d. 
1897.)  A  wood-carver  of  Tokyo, 
highly  skilled  in  chiselling  designs  in 
medium  relief.  Much  of  his  work 
was  done  for  bronze-casters,  so  that 
few  specimens  remain. 

Mitsuharu.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-car- 
ver of  Kyoto.  "  Several  fine  netsuke 
bear  his  name."  —  Soken  Kisho. 

Mitsuhiro.  igth  cent.  (d.  1865.)  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Osaka;  one  of  the 
greatest  experts  of  the  century.  He 
could  chisel  ideographs  as  though 
they  were  traced  by  a  great  penman. 

Miwa.  1 8th  cent.  A  celebrated  net- 
suke-carver. The  Soken  Kisho  says  : 
"  The  other  names  of  this  artist  are 
unknown.  He  lived  and  worked  at 
Sekiguchi,  in  the  street  called  Suido- 
machi,  in  Yedo  (Tokyo).  His  skill 
was  of  the  highest,  and  he  specially 
distinguished  himself  in  carving  such 
figures  as  kodomo  shishi-asobi  (chil- 
dren masquerading  as  Dogs  of  Fo), 
take-ryoshi  (catchers  of  cuttle-fish), 


etc.  His  netsuke  were  all  of  uncol- 
oured  cherry  wood,  and  the  holes 
through  which  the  cord  passed  were 
lined  with  horn,  stained  light  green. 
He  did  not  work  in  ivory." 

N.B.  Miwa  is  one  of  the  names  with 
which  venders  of  bric-a-brac  are  wont  to  con- 
jure. To  account  for  the  very  considerable 
number  of  "  Miwa  "netsuke  offered  by  them 
for  sale,  they  have  devised  a  legend  indicat- 
ing that  several  generations  of  the  Miwa 
family  followed  the  profession  of  netsuke- 
carver,  and  they  do  not  hesitate  to  assign  to 
the  chisel  of  "Miwa  the  First,"  netsukes 
elaborately  coloured  and  even  lacquered, 
though  the  author  of  the  Soken  Kisho  explic- 
itly notes  that  Miwa's  work  was  entirely  in 
uncoloured  cherry  wood.  Some  well  known 
European  writers  on  Japanese  art,  failing  to 
notice  this  point  have  been  betrayed  into 
obviously  false  identifications. 

Miyao.  Kyosei.  Present  day.  Ivory- 
carver  of  Tokyo. 

Miyazaka.  Hakuryu.  First  half  of  1 9th 
cent.  Netsuke-carver. 

Miyochin.  Yoshihisa.  i7th  cent.  (d. 
1664.)  Common  name  Yazayemon. 
A  celebrated  armourer,  kinzoku-shi 
and  chiseller  of  sword-furniture.  A 
son  of  Miyochin  Munehisa.  Origi- 
nally he  worked  at  Kamakura,  but 
subsequently  moved  to  Yuki  (Shim- 
otsuke  province),  and  ultimately  took 
up  his  abode  at  Fukui  in  Yechizen. 
A  great  expert. 

Miyochin.  Yoshihisa.  1 7th  cent.  (Sec- 
ond of  that  name.)  (d.  1675.)  The 
most  celebrated  of  the  Miyochin 
masters  for  works  outside  the  range 
of  armour  and  sword-furniture.  He 
forged  dragons,  craw-fish,  and  crabs 
with  universal  joints,  birds  with  mov- 
able plumage,  and  other  objects  of 
iron  showing  extraordinary  skill. 
The  maker  of  an  iron  eagle  now  in 
the  South  Kensington  Museum. 
This  eagle  was  originally  in  the  pos- 
session of  the  Matsudaira  family 
(feudal  chief  of  Yechizen),  where 
some  masterpieces  by  the  same  ex- 
pert are  still  preserved.  Miyochin 
Yoshihisa's  methods  of  manufacture 
were  carried  on  by  a  son  and  grand- 
son of  the  same  narne,  the  former  of 
whom  died  in  1680,  the  latter  in 
1732. 

Miyogaya.  Seishichi.  iSth  cent.  A 
netsuke-carver,  of  whom  the  Soken 
Kisho  says :  "  He  lived  near  the 
temple  Nishi-hongwan-ji  in  Bingo- 
machi,  Osaka.  He  was  by  profession 


ARTIST    ARTIZ  ANS 


a  carver  of  ventilating  panels  (ram- 
ma),  but  he  also  excelled  in  produc- 
ing elaborately  chiselled  netsuke. 
His  carvings  are  never  coloured  or 
of  ivory." 

Mori  no  Koriu.  Present  day.  Carver  in 
ivory  of  Tokyo. 

Mori.  Yasokichi.  Worker  in  cloisonne 
enamels ;  pupil  of  Kara  Fujio. 

Morikawa.  TSyen.  igth  cent.  (d. 
1892.)  A  highly  skilled  wood-carver 
of  Nara  and  Kyoto. 

Morikawa.  Kyoyen.  iQth  cent.  (d. 
1 890.)  A  highly  skilled  wood-carver 
of  Osaka ;  son  of  Morikawa  Toyen, 
but  died  before  his  father. 

Nagai.  Rantei.  igth  cent.  (d.  1853.) 
A  netsuke-carver  of  Kyoto,  originally 
a  Samurai  of  Unshiu.  It  is  related 
that  being  asked  by  the  Court  to 
chisel  a  thousand  monkeys  on  a  wal- 
nut, he  finished  the  work  in  ten 
years,  and  the  officials  appointed  to 
receive  it  had  to  put  dots  of  red  ink 
on  the  monkeys  in  order  to  count 
them.  He  received  the  art  title  of 
Hokkyo  and  a  present  of  30  riyo. 
He  is  said  to  have  been  a  very  proud 
man.  If  the  slightest  fault  was 
found  with  his  work,  he  refused  to 
deliver  the  specimen.  When  he  re- 
ceived the  price,  he  spent  it  at  once 
on  sake. 

Nogami.  Yataro.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  bronze-caster  of  Tokyo ;  art 
name,  Riuki. 

Nagamichi.  igth  cent.  (d.  1855.)  A 
netsuke-shi  of  Osaka. 

Nagao.  Taichiro.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says :  "  This  artist  was  a  Samurai  of 
Wakayama  in  the  province  of  Kishiu. 
He  studied  carving  under  Ogasawara 
Issai  (mentioned  as  the  best  liv- 
ing netsuke-carver,  of  the  era  when 
the  Soken  Kisho  was  written).  His 
works  are  clearly  chiselled  and  elab- 
orate, almost  equal  to  those  of  his 
master." 

Nagoya.  Shichirozayemon.  i3th  cent. 
Metal-founder.  (Second  son  of  the 
Hojo  Vicegerent  Yoshitoki.  Had 
the  rank  of  Shikibu-no-jo  and  was 
also  called  Asataki.) 

Nagoya.  Yashichiro.  (d.  1471.)  There 
were  three  of  this  name,  but  nothing 
is  known  of  the  two  first.  Yashichiro 
cast  tea-utensils  for  the  Ashikaga 
Shogun  Yoshimasa,  and  was  ap- 


pointed founder  of  bronze  and  iron 
to  the  Shoguns,  the  Imperial  Court, 
and  the  eight  princes  of  Ise. 
Nagoya.     Yashichiro.     i6th  cent.    Chu- 

ami.     Metal-founder. 
Nagoya.     Yashichiro.    (d.  1535.)    Metal- 
founder. 

Nagoya.  Yashichiro.  (d.  1 593.)  Made 
tea-utensils  for  Ota  Nobunaga,  and 
received  a  pension  of  3,000  koku  of 
rice.  Metal-founder.  Art  name, 
Zensho. 

Nagoya.      Yagoro.      (d.    1600.)      Metal- 
founder. 
Nagoya.     Yashichiro.      (d.    1606.)     Art 

name,  Joyu.     Metal-founder. 
Nagoya.     Yashichiro.      (d.    1619.)     Art 
name,  Zenshi.    Metal-founder.    Very 
celebrated. 

Nagoya.  Yayemon.  (d.  1638.)  Art 
name,  Sansho.  Called  also  Jomi, 
and  distinguished  as  "  Ko  Jomi  "  (the 
elder  Jomi).  Cast  a  bell  for  the 
temple  of  Daibutsu  at  Nara,  and 
received  the  rank  of  Echizen  no 
Sh5jo,  being  named  metal-founder 
to  the  Tokugawa  Shoguns. 
Nagoya.  Yayemon.  (d.  1639.)  Masa- 

taka.     A  great  metal -founder. 
Nagoya.     Yayemon.     (d.   1708.)     Masa- 

nori  and  Jomi.     Metal-founder. 
Nagoya.     Yayemon.     (d.  1722.)     Masa- 
haru    and    Santen    Jomi.      A    great 
metal-founder. 
Nagoya.     Yayemon.     (d.   1759.)     Masa- 

mitsu  and  Jomi.     Metal -founder. 
Nagoya.     Yayemon.     (d.  1784.)     Masa- 

naga.     Metal-founder. 
Nagoya.     Yayemon.     (d.    1800.)      Mas- 

aoki  and  Jomi.     Metal -founder. 
Nagoya.     Masanobu.     (d.  1820.)     Metal- 
founder. 

Nagoya.  Yashichiro.  (d.  1674.)  Younger 
brother  of  Masataka.  Metal-foun- 
der. 

Nakao.  Sotei.  igth  cent.  (d.  1835.) 
A  metal-caster  of  Osaka.  His  son 
continued  the  work.  The  family 
produced  several  artizans,  as  Nabeya 
Chobei,  Kihan,  Kamacho,  etc.,  and 
all  used  the  mark  Nakao  Sotei. 
These  bronzes  were  the  first  exported 
from  Japan  in  modern  times. 
Nakatani.  Toyokichi.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  wood-carver  of  Osaka.  Art 
name,  Shogo.  Son  of  Nakatani 
Seisuke. 
Nakatani.  Seisuke.  igth  cent.  (d. 


18 


ARTIST    ARTIZANS 


1870.)  A  wood-carver  of  Hiroshima. 
Art  name,  Shisetsu. 

Nakaya.  Jiyemon.  Yasuteru.  1 6th  and 
1 7th  cent.  (d.  1623.)  Called  also, 
Shoyeki.  Received  art  title  of  Tenka 
Ichi,  and  rank  of  Dewa  no  Daijo 
from  the  Taiko,  who  further  exempted 
the  Nakaya  family  from  all  taxes. 
This  artist,  originally  an  armourer,  is 
said  to  have  been  the  first  to  orna- 
ment bronzes  with  flowers,  birds, 
figures,  etc.,  in  relief.  He  was  asso- 
ciated with  Nagoya  Sansho  in  the 
casting  of  the  Daibutsu  bell  at  Nara. 

Nakaya.  Jiyemon.  Shigetomo.  i7th 
cent,  (early).  Joyeki.  Had  rank  of 
Dewa  no  Daijo,  and  enjoyed  ex- 
emption from  taxation.  Metal- 
founder. 

Nakaya.  Jiyemon.  Yasuie.  I7th  cent, 
(early).  Received  art  title  of  Tenka 
Ichi  and  had  rank  of  Dewa  no  Daijo. 
Was  also  known  as  Somai-boin,  and 
on  gongs  cast  by  him  the  mark 
"  Tenka  Ichi  SSmai "  is  found. 
Metal-founder.  Called  also  Joyeki. 

Nakaya  Jiyemon.  lyetsugu.  1 7th  cent. 
Succeeded  to  headship  of  Nakaya 
family  in  1635.  Had  rank  of  Hitachi 
no  Daijo.  Cast  bronze  utensils,  etc., 
for  the  mausoleum  of  lyemitsu 
(1651),  and  a  representation  of  the 
death  of  Buddha  for  the  Koya  temple. 
Joyeki. 

Nakaya  Kuroyemon  Muneakira.  i7th 
cent.  Succeeded  to  headship  of 
Nakaya  family  in  1 663.  Cast  bronzes 
for  the  mausoleum  of  lyetsuna 
(1680),  and  produced  many  censers, 
alcove  ornaments,  figures,  etc.  One 
of  the  most  skilled  casters  of  the 
1 7th  century.  Had  rank  of  Dewa 
no  Daijo.  Called  also  Joyeki. 

Nakaya.  Kichi-no-jo.  Akisada.  i7th 
and  1 8th  cent.  Succeeded  to  head- 
ship of  Nakaya  family  in  1701,  and 
had  rank  of  Dewa  no  Daijo.  Cast 
bronzes  for  mausoleum  of  Tsuna- 
yoshi  (1709),  and  made  many  bronzes 
for  temples  of  the  Shingon  sect. 
Joyeki. 

Nakaya  Sanyemon.  Yasuakira.  i8th 
cent.  Cast  bronzes  for  mausoleum 
of  lyetsugu  (1716),  and  for  the 
temple  Kobuku-ji,  as  well  as  many 
Buddhas  and  images.  Joyeki. 

Nakaya  Kameyemon.  Yasusada.  i8th 
cent.  Cast  all  the  bronze  utensils 


for  the  Ise  Dai-jin-gu  in  1769,  and 
many  alcove  ornaments,  flower- vases, 
etc.  Joyeki. 

Nakaya  Kameyemon.  Yasumune.  i8th 
cent.  Cast  bronze  vessels  for  mau- 
soleum of  lyemoto  (1779),  and  for 
the  mausoleum  of  lyeharu  (1786). 
Also  founded  bronzes  for  the  Ise 
Dai-jin-gu  in  1 789.  Joyeki. 

Nakaya  Kameyemon.  Yasunari.  igth 
cent.  Received  rank  of  Ise  no  Daijo 
in  1851.  Employed  by  the  Toku- 
gawa  Shoguns  to  cast  bronzes  for 
the  temple  Senyu-ji  in  1813.  Cast 
bronzes  for  the  mausoleum  of  lye- 
nari(i84i).  Cast  the  large  standard- 
lantern  for  the  Daishi-do  at  Kama- 
kura  in  1840  ;  also  that  which  stands 
on  Chikubu-shima  in  Lake  Omi,  and 
that  for  Kitano  Temman-gu ;  also 
the  bronze  caps  for  the  balustrades 
of  the  Haiden  of  Inari-jinja,  the 
utensils  for  Yokoku-ji  in  Yanagitani, 
and  many  bronze  cisterns,  images, 
etc.  Received  the  art  title  of  Hokyo 
in  1847.  Joyeki. 

Nakaya  Kameyemon.  Yasutomo.  igth 
cent.  Received  the  rank  of  Yamata 
no  Daijo  in  1863.  Made  (1848-53) 
altar  bronzes  for  Komiyo-ji,  standard- 
lamp  for  Kitano  Temman-gu,  effigy 
of  Ohito-nushi  for  Yokoku-ji ;  image 
of  Kobo  Daishi  for  To-ji  (in  Kyoto), 
many  bronze  sotoba,  images,  etc. 
Called  also  Joyeki. 

Nakaya  Wasuke.  Yasuyuki.  (d.  1847.) 
Worked  with  his  father,  Nakaya 
Yasuyuki.  Metal-founder.  Called 
also  Joyeki. 

Nakaya  Kameyemon.  Yasuharu.  Pres- 
ent representative  of  the  Nakaya 
family,  but  has  changed  his  family 
name  to  Hasegawa.  Works  in 
Kyoto,  and  has  cast  several  large 
temple  images  (12  feet  high)  of 
Shaka,  Fudo,  etc.  Called  also 
Joyeki. 

Nakayama.  Yamato.  i8th  cent.  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Yedo.  The  Soken 
Kisko  says :  "  This  woman  was 
celebrated  for  her  remarkable  skill 
in  engraving  with  the  point  of  the 
burin  extraordinarily  minute  designs 
of  shishi  or  dragons  upon  kuwara- 
netsuke  (vide  Ruisa)  of  ivory." 

Nando.  Matashiro.  igth  cent.  (d. 
1860.)  A  netsuke  (wood)  carver  of 
Kanazawa  in  Kaga. 


ARTIST    ARTIZ  ANS 


Naotatsu.  Miyazaki.  (d.  1799.)  Metal- 
founder.  Hikokuro. 

Naotomo.  Miyazaki.  (d.  1799.)  Metal- 
founder.  Hikokuro. 

Naoyuki.  Miyazaki.  (d.  1786.)  Metal- 
founder.  Hikokuro. 

Negoro.  Sokiu.  iSthcent.  A  netsuke- 
carver.  The  Soken  Kisho  says : 
"  He  lived  in  Kyomachi,  Osaka. 
He  showed  skill  in  the  making  of 
artificial  teeth,  and  was  also  an 
expert  netsuke-carver." 

Negishi.  Suketaro.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  carver  of  Kyoto,  who  works 
in  ivory  and  wood. 

Nishimura.  Donin.  1 7th  cent.  Father 
of  the  celebrated  Kuhei  lyehisa. 
Metal-founder. 

Ogasawara.  Issai.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says :  "  A  native  of  the  province  of 
Kishiu,  he  is  the  master,  par  excel- 
lence, of  the  present  day  (1781),  and 
although  he  is  still  alive,  his  -works 
are  not  easy  to  procure.  He  carves 
in  ivory,  walrus  ivory,  etc.,  so  deli- 
cately and  skilfully  that  his  achieve- 
ments seem  beyond  human  capacity. 

Ogino.  Shomin.  i8th  and  igth  cent. 
(d.  1830.)  A  great  wood-carver  of 
Kyoto.  A  Samurai  who  never 
studied  carving  under  any  teacher. 
In  cooperation  with  Ishikawa  Mit- 
suaki  he  carved  the  Dewa  Kings  for 
the  temple  of  Myobu.  He  lost  the 
use  of  his  eyes,  and  was  tended  until 
his  death  by  Shibayama  Soichi. 

Ogura.  Sojiro.  Present  day.  A  mod- 
eller of  likeness  effigies  in  plaster  of 
Paris  for  the  use  of  bronze-casters 
and  metal-sculptors. 

Ogura.  Sojiro.  Present  day.  A  sculp- 
tor in  European  style,  who  has  pro- 
duced some  fine  works  in  plaster  of 
Paris  and  marble. 

Okano.  Shoju.  Present  day.  Carver 
in  wood  and  ivory  of  Tokyo.  Called 
also  Yasunori,  and  art  name,  Bunkei. 
Son  of  Yamada  Koretaka. 

Okatomo.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto. 

Okazaki.  Sessei.  Present  day.  A  cel- 
ebrated bronze-founder  of  Tokyo. 
Renowned  for  large  castings.  (See 
text.) 

Omiya.  Kahei.  1 8th  cent.  A  netsuke- 
carver  of  Osaka. 

Onishi.  Josei.  (d.  1682.)  Gorozayemon 
and  Muranaga.  He  worked  in  com- 


pany with  lyemasa  (q.  v.).  A  great 
metal-founder. 

Ono.  Ryomin.  igth  cent.  (d.  1875.) 
A  great  netsuke-shi  of  Tokyo  ;  pupil 
of  Rakumin  ;  carved  chiefly  in  wood. 

Ono.  Hakujitsu.  Present  day.  Ivory- 
carver  of  Tokyo. 

Onoura.  Kichigoro.  igth  cent.  (d. 
1 880.)  A  busshi  of  Tokyo  ;  teacher 
of  Mitsuboshi  Riuun. 

Oshima.  Katsujiro.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  bronze-caster  of  Tokyo  ;  art 
name,  Joun. 

Oshima.  Yasutaro.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  bronze-caster  of  Tokyo  ;  art 
name,  Shokaku.  Yasutaro  and  his 
brother  Oshima  Katsujiro  established 
the  Sanseisha  (firm  name)  in  Tokyo, 
where,  between  1873  an<^  J879>  some 
of  the  finest  bronzes  ever  produced 
in  Japan  were  turned  out. 

Ota.  Kihichi.  A  worker  in  cloisonne 
enamels ;  pupil  of  Hayashi  Shogoro. 

Otsuki.  Shunzo.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels  ;  pupil  of  Isaburo. 

Rakumin.  igth  cent.  (d.  1865).  A 
great  netsuke-shi  of  Tokyo.  Not 
originally  a  carver,  but  a  curio-dealer, 
he  was  induced  to  try  sculpture  for 
the  purpose  of  imitating  the  fine 
netsuke  that  passed  through  his 
hands.  He  produced  some  excel- 
lent imitations  of  Miwa's  netsuke. 

Rakushiku.  First  half  of  igth  cent. 
Netsuke-carver. 

Rammei.  igth  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto ;  pupil  of  Nagai  Rantei. 

Rankwa.  igth  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto ;  pupil  of  Nagai  Rantei. 

Ransen.  i9th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto  ;  pupil  of  Nagai  Rantei. 

Ranshi.  igth  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto ;  pupil  of  Nagai  Rantei. 

Riujo.  Present  day.  A  skilled  wood- 
carver  ;  pupil  of  Riumin. 

Riukei.  There  were  three  netsuke-shi 
of  this  name ;  the  first  woiked  from 
1804  to  1830;  the  second,  from  1830 
to  1850;  the  third  died  in  1885. 

Riumin.  igth  cent.  A  great  netsuke- 
carver  of  Kyoto. 

Riumondo.  Beginning  of  igth  cent. 
Metal-founder  of  Kyoto. 

Riusa.  A  netsuke-carver  of  Yedo.  The 
Soken  Kisho  says :  "  He  was  a  turner 
by  profession,  and  he  showed  re- 
markable skill  in  making  Kuwara- 
netsuke,  which  were  lathe-turned,  and 


2O 


ARTIST    ARTIZANS 


particularly  suitable  for  gold  lacquer 
inro,  because  the  lacquer  received  no 
injury  from  contact  with  the  net- 
suke." 

N.B.  The  term  Kuivara-netsuke  signifies 
round  netsuke  with  smooth  edges,  commonly 
known  in  Japan  as  manj u-netsuke ,  because 
of  the  resemblance  its  shape  bears  to  a  rice- 
dumpling  ( man]  u).  Such  netsuke  are  also 
called  riusa,  after  the  name  of  their  origi- 
nator. 

Sadanosuke.     (d.  1795.)     Metal-founder. 

Sahei.  i6th  cent.  Celebrated  for  cast- 
ing tea-urns  having  "  brush-mark  " 
decoration.  Metal-founder. 

Saihojutsu.  First  half  of  igth  cent. 
Netsuke-carver. 

Sakata.  Chikuyen.  "Present  time.  A 
wood-carver  of  Osaka ;  pupil  of 
Morikawa  KySyen.  Celebrated  for 
carvings  of  sparrows. 

Sakunai.  Tsunejiro.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels  ;  pupil  of  Isaburo. 

Sanehisa.  (d.  1603.)  Yojiro.  Second 
son  of  Nagoya  Yashichiro  (Zensho). 
In  1584  cast  an  image  of  Buddha 
1 6  ft.  high  for  the  Dai-butsu  temple 
in  Kyoto.  Cast  many  celebrated 
tea-urns.  Metal-founder. 

Sanko.  igth  cent.  (d.  1860.)  A  net- 
suke-shi  of  Osaka. 

Sanko.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver  of 
Osaka.  The  Soken  Kisho  says : 
"  His  technical  skill  as  a  carver  was 
great,  and  he  was  a  faithful  copyist, 
but  unfortunately  his  works  are  de- 
ficient in  tone." 

Satake.  Sohichi.  iSth  cent.  A  net- 
suke-carver of  Osaka.  The  Soken 
Kisho  says  :  "  An  architectural  sculp- 
tor by  profession,  he  was  also  very 
skilled  in  carving  netsuke,  in  ivory 
and  in  wood,  both  coloured  and 
plain. 

Sano.  Koichi.  Present  day.  Ivory- 
carver  of  Tokyo. 

Sato.  To.  Present  day.  Ivory-carver 
of  Tokyo. 

Sato.  Hirashi.  ijth  cent.  Pupil  of 
Nagoshi  Masataka.  Metal-founder. 

Sawaoka.  Chiuhei.  igthcent.  (d.  1836.) 
A  wood-carver  of  Kanazawa. 

Seibei.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto.  The  Soken  Kisho  says  : 
"  His  skill  was  so  great  that  the 
epithet  Seibei-bori  (Seibei  carving) 
came  to  be  applied  to  all  glyptic 
work  of  beauty  and  refinement, 
whether  from  his  or  other  hands. 


Many  imitations  of  his  netsuke  are 
now  (1781)  to  be  found. 
Seimin.  Present  day.  An  ivory-carver 
of  Tokyo ;  pupil  of  Rakumin.  Up 
to  1876  he  carved  netsuke  only,  but 
thereafter  he  produced  the  small 
alcove  ornaments  which  have  found 
so  much  favour  with  foreign  collec- 
tors. Among  his  netsuke  the  repre- 
sentations of  frogs  were  so  good 
that  people  called  him  "  Kayeru 
Seimin  "  (frog  Seimin). 
Seimin.  iSth  and  igth  cent.  (b.  1769, 
d.  1840).  A  celebrated  bronze-caster 
of  Yedo,  specially  skilled  in  pro- 
ducing the  golden-yellow  bronze 
called  "  Sentoku." 

Sekku.  igth  cent.  (d.  1890.)  Art 
name  of  a  wood-carver  of  Mikuni; 
son  of  Shima  Sessei. 

Shibata.     Ichirobei.     iSth  cent.     A  net- 
suke-carver of  Osaka. 
Shibayama.      Saichi.      igth    cent.      A 

skilled  wood-carver  of  Kyoto. 
Shiho.     Ampei.     iSth  cent.     (d.  1842.) 
A    highly   skilled   metal-caster   who 
worked    for   many   years   in    Kaga. 
Art  name,  Ryumondo. 
Shikida.      Otajiro.      Present    day.      A 
carver  of  netsuke  and  alcove  orna- 
ments in  Kyoto.     Highly  skilled. 
Shima.    Sessei.     igth    cent.     (d.   1888.) 
A  wood-carver  of  Mikuni,  celebrated 
for  minute  work.      Had  the  art  rank 
of  Hokkyo. 

Shimamura.     Ryomin.     igth  cent.     (d. 
1896.)      A    skilled    ivory-carver    of 
Tokyo. 
Shimamura.        Homei.       Present    day. 

Ivory-carver  of  Tokyo. 
Shimizu.     Tahei.     i7th  cent.     Pupil  of 

Nagoya  Masataka.     Metal-founder. 
Shinkai.      Taketaro.      Present  day.     A 
wood-carver  of  Tokyo,  who  works  in 
the  modern  style. 
Shinshi.     Sairyukei.    (First  half  of  igth 

cent.)  Netsuke-carver. 
Shiugetsu.  iSth  cent.  A  netsuke- 
carver  of  Yedo.  Had  the  art  title  of 
Hogen.  The  Soken  Kisho  says : 
"  A  skilled  pictorial  artist,  he  has 
received  the  title  of  '  HSgen '  in 
recognition  of  his  talents.  He  also 
carves  netsuke  which  are  of  great 
excellence." 

N.B.  This  Shiugetsu  is  not  to  be  con- 
founded with  the  celebrated  pupil  of  Sesshiu, 
who  flourished  in  the  i6th  cent. 


21 


ARTIST    ARTIZANS 


Shiukai.  Present  day.  Wood-carver  of 
Tokyo.  (Vide  Yamazaki.) 

Shiura.  Itataro.  Present  day.  Wood 
and  ivory  carver  of  Tokyo. 

Shokiusai.  igth  cent.  (d.  1860.)  A 
skilled  netsuke-shi,  much  of  whose 
work  has  gone  abroad,  as  it  was 
originally  produced  for  low  prices. 

Shoko.  Present  day.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Takayama ;  pupil  of  Sukeyuki. 

Shomin.      Vide  Unno  Shomin. 

Shominsai.  End  of  i8th  cent.  Net- 
suke-carver. 

Shosai.  Hidemasa.  1 9th  cent.  (d.  1875.) 
A  netsuke-shi  of  Yedo  (Tokyo). 

Shotoku.  6th  and  7th  cent.  Gen- 
erally spoken  of  as  Shotoku  Taishi 
(Prince  Shotoku).  Said  to  have 
been  a  skilful  wood-sculptor. 

Shoun.  Present  day.  An  expert  sculp- 
tor of  wood  or  ivory  alcove  orna- 
ments in  Kyoto. 

Shuzan.  i8th  cent.  The  first  recorded 
carver  of  netsuke  ;  had  the  art  title 
of  Hogen,  on  account  of  his  skill  as 
a  painter.  He  was,  in  fact,  the 
painter  Mitsuoki.  (Vide  text.) 

Sobei.  1 8th  cent.  A  younger  son  of 
Nagoya  Santen.  (q-v.)  Metal- 
founder.  His  family  name  was 
Shimoma,  and  his  personal  name 
Masakatsu. 

Sobei.  1 8th  cent.  Son  of  above.  Art 
name,  Mijo.  Celebrated  for  the 
manufacture  of  urns  in  the  shape 
of  tortoises,  demons,  cicada,  etc. 
Metal-founder. 

Sobei.  1 8th  cent.  Art  name,  Misen. 
Son  of  Sobei  Mijo.  Jakiu.  Metal- 
founder. 

Sokwa.  Heishiro.  i8th  cent.  A  net- 
suke-carver of  Osaka.  The  Soken 
Kisho  says :  "  By  profession  an  archi- 
tectural carver,  he  derived  his  soubri- 
quet, Sokwa  (plants  and  flowers), 
from  the  remarkable  ability  he  dis- 
played in  chiselling  leaves,  blossoms, 
etc.  He  was  an  adept  carver  of  net- 
suke, but  his  works  are  very  rare." 

Somada.  Nobuyoshi.  i7th  and  i8th 
cent.  A  wood-carver  who  orna- 
mented his  work  with  a  delicate 
inlaying  of  mother-of-pearl,  and 
was  consequently  known  as  Aogai 
(Mother  of  pearl)  no  Somada. 

Somin.  i9th  cent.  A  great  bronze- 
caster  of  Tokyo,  pupil  of  Teijo  and 
Seimin.  Somin  is  his  art  name. 


Suginaga.  Chikayuki.  (d.  1882.)  Net- 
suke-carver of  Tokyo.  His  work 
is  called  Asakusa-ningyo  as  he  lived 
at  Asakusa  in  Tokyo. 

Sukenaga.  igth  cent.  (d.  1855.)  A 
skilled  netsuke-carver  of  Takayama. 

Sukeyuki.  igth  cent.  (d.  1885).  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Takayama,  son  of 
Sukenaga. 

Suwara.  Seizayemon.  i8th  cent.  (d. 
1783.)  A  bronze-caster  of  Yedo. 

Suwara.  Hatsugoro.  i8th  and  i9th 
cent.  A  bronze-caster  of  Yedo. 

Suwara.  Matagoro.  i8th  and  igth 
cent.  (d.  1818.)  A  bronze-caster  of 
Yedo. 

Suwara.  Hatsugoro.  igth  cent.  (d. 
1836.)  A  bronze-caster  of  Yedo. 
Another  bronze-caster  of  the  same 
name  worked  in  Yedo  sixty  years 
later,  (d.  1892.)  He  was  a  great- 
grandson  of  the  above,  and  had  the 
art  name  of  Judo. 

Suwara.  Kitaro.  igth  cent.  (d.  1871.) 
A  skilled  bronze-caster  of  Tokyo. 

Suwara.     Yasugoro.      VideG\&o. 

Suzuki.  Kamekichi.  Present  day.  A 
wood-carver  of  Tokyo,  who  produces 
masks  for  the  foreign  market. 

Suzuki.  Kichigoro.  Present  day.  In- 
ventor of  the  antimony  ware  now 
largely  produced  in  Japan. 

Suzuki.  A  worker  in  cloisonne  enamels. 
There  were  two  of  this  family  name, 
and  both  were  pupils  of  Kaji  Tsu- 
nekichi.  Their  second  names  were 
Shinbyoye  and  Seiichijiro. 

Suzuki.  Chokichi.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  metal-founder  of  Tokyo. 

Suzuki.  Heijiro.  Present  day.  Wood- 
carver  in  the  style  of  Matsumoto 
Kisaburo,  (q.  v.)  whose  pupil  he 
was. 

Suzuki.  Masakichi.  Present  day.  A 
bronze-founder  of  Tokyo. 

Suzuki.  Seven  generations  of  this  family 
lived  and  worked  in  Yedo,  the 
seventh,  Suzuki  Gensuke  being  the 
present  representative.  The  first  six 
manufactured  chiefly  metal  pen-cases 
(yatate]  for  the  girdle,  incense-boxes, 
etc.  They  used  the  mark  Genshin. 
The  present  representative  is  a  skilled 
metal-worker  (uchi-mono-shf).  His 
art  names  are  Reigensai  and  Su- 
zugen. 

Tadatoshi.  igth  cent,  (beginning).  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Nagoya. 


22 


ARTIST    A  RTIZ  ANS 


Takabatake.  Toyejiro.  Present  day. 
A  worker  in  cloisonne  enamel  of 
Kanazawa  (in  Kaga) ;  remarkable 
for  his  imitations  of  the  Chinese 
style. 

Takamura.  Koun.  Present  day.  A 
wood-carver  of  Tokyo,  regarded  as 
among  the  greatest  of  the  century; 
pupil  of  Toun.  He  stands  between 
the  old  school  and  the  new. 

Takasaki.  Takaichiro.  Present  day. 
A  skilled  worker  in  cloisonne  enamel. 

Takeda.  Nobuhide.  igih  cent.  (d. 
1845.)  A  great  wood-carver  of  Kan- 
azawa. Art  name,  Yugetsu.  Cele- 
brated for  chiselling  eagles,  birds, 
and  flowers,  etc.,  in  relief  on  the 
panels  of  letter-boxes.  He  had  a 
pension  of  a  hundred  koku  of  rice 
from  Mayeda,  feudal  chief  of 
Kaga. 

Takeda.  igth  cent,  (d.  1865.)  A  mask - 
carver  of  Kanazawa ;  son  of  Takeda 
Nobuhide. 

Takehara.  Torakichi.  Present  day. 
A  skilled  netsuke-shi  of  Osaka.  Art 
name,  Chikko.  He  has  made  some 
excellent  imitations  of  Shuzan's  net- 
suke  (vide  Shuzan). 

Takenouchi.  Yasuhei.  i8th  cent.  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Wakayama,  Kishiu. 
His  netsuke  are  coloured. 

Takeoka.  Gohei.  Present  day.  Maker 
of  wooden  figures,  masks,,  etc.,  for 
the  foreign  market,  as  well  as  for  use 
in  Japanese  festivals,  puppet  shows, 
etc.,  in  the  style  of  Matsumoto  Kisa- 
buro  (q.  v.).  Several  generations  of 
the  Takeoka  family  were  employed 
in  the  manufacture  of  votive  images 
and  puppets,  from  1688  to  the  pres- 
ent day ;  as  Takeoka  Dengon  (d. 
1847),  Takeoka  K5zo,  and  Takeoka 
Denkichi. 

Takeshita.  Shoju.  Present  day.  Met- 
al-sculptor. Pupil  of  Unno  Sh5min. 
{Workers  in  cloi- 
sonne enamels ; 
pupils  of  Tsuka- 
moto  Kaisuke. 

Takusai.  igth  cent.  (d.  1885.)  A 
skilled  bronze-caster  of  Sado.  He 
cast  principally  small  objects,  and 
was  specially  skilled  in  producing  a 
fine,  purple  patina.  His  son  of  the 
same  name  is  now  working. 

Tamaji.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto. 


Tametaka.  1 8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Nagoya.  The  Soken  Kisho  says : 
"  He  devised  a  new  style  of  carving ; 
namely,  chiselling  vine  scroll  (kara- 
kusa)  decoration  in  relief  on  the  cos- 
tumes of  human  figures.  Hence  his 
name  is  well  known. 

Tametaka.  First  half  of  igth  cent.  Net- 
suke-carver celebrated  for  chiselling 
figures  and  flowers. 

Tanchosai.  Jikaku.  igth  cent.  A 
bronze-founder  of  Yedo,  contempo- 
rary of  Seimin. 

Tatsugoro.  A  worker  in  cloisonne  enam- 
els ;  pupil  of  Kaji  Tsunekichi. 

Tatsuki.  Kanzo.  i8th  cent.  A  net- 
suke-carver of  Osaka.  His  netsuke 
are  very  rare. 

Tawaraya.  Dembei.  i8th  cent.  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Osaka.  He  was  a 
pupil  of  Kanjuro,  and  carved  in 
ivory  and  wood. 

Teijo.  iQth  cent.  (d.  1861.)  A  great 
bronze-caster  of  Yedo ;  pupil  of  Sei- 
min. Teijo  was  his  art  name,  his 
•real  name  being  Kunibara  Yahei. 

Tokoku.  Present  day.  A  wood-carver 
of  Tokyo ;  works  almost  entirely  in 
hard  wood,  called  Sabita,  which  is 
obtained  from  Hokkaido,  and  which 
is  almost  as  good  a  field  as  metal  for 
engraving  purposes. 

Tomochika.  IQth  cent.  (d.  1873.)  An 
ivory-carver  of  Yedo  (Tokyo),  not 
only  one  of  the  greatest  but  also  one 
of  the  most  prolific  carvers  of  the 
IQth  cent.  Younger  brother  of  Ogi- 
no  Sh5min,  like  whom  he  never  re- 
ceived any  instruction  in  sculpture. 
His  art  name  was  Chikuyosai.  Most 
of  his  fine  netsuke  were  chiselled  be- 
tween 1830  and  1*870. 

Tomochika.  Present  day.  A  netsuke- 
shi  of  Tokyo.  Son  of  an  adopted 
son  of  the  celebrated  Tomochika, 
but  of  far  inferior  skill. 

Tomokazu.  igth  cent.  (d.  1867.)  A 
netsuke-shi  of  Gifu  and  Osaka,  cele- 
brated for  skill  in  chiselling  rats. 

Tomotada.  iSthcent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto.  The  Soken  Aisho  says  : 
"  He  obtained  renown  as  a  sculptor 
of  oxen,  and  his  work  was  spoken  of 
throughout  the  whole  of  the  Kwanto 
district  (eight  provinces  eastward  of 
Hakone).  There  are  hundreds  of 
imitations,  but  the  originals  are  ad- 
mirably clever." 


ARTIST    ARTI  Z  ANS 


Tomotane.  1 8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Kyoto. 

Toshi.  End  of  i8th  cent.  Netsuke- 
carver. 

Toshimaya.  Ihyoye.  iSth  cent.  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Osaka.  The  Soken 
Kisho  says :  "  He  was  celebrated  for 
a  kind  of  netsuke  which  served  to 
hold  the  glowing  ashes  of  the  pipe 
so  that  they  could  be  used  to  light 
the  latter  after  refilling.  These  net- 
suke were  made  by  plaiting  silver  or 
copper  wires  after  the  fashion  of  the 
celebrated  Ichirakudri  (a  kind  of  rat- 
tan plaiting  called  after  its  inventor, 
Ichiraku).  Some  of  his  netsuke  take 
the  shape  of  a  calabash." 

N.B.  The  Japanese  pipe,  holding  only  a 
pinch  of  tobacco,  requires  to  be  often  re- 
charged. The  smoker's  habit  is  to  deposit 
the  glowing  ashes  in  some  convenient  place 
that  they  may  serve  for  lighting  the  re-filled 
pipe.  These  calabash-shaped  netsuke  of 
woven  wire  are  common. 

Toun.  1 9th  cent.  (d.  1841.)  A  cele- 
brated bronze-caster  of  Yedo,  espe- 
cially skilled  in  moulding  dragons. 
Toun  was  his  art  name,  his  real  name 
being  Kimura  Heiji.  The  mark 
Heiji  is  found  on  some  of  his  early 
bronzes. 

T5un.  igth  cent,  (d.  1879.)  A  skilled 
wood-carver  of  Tokyo.  Originally  a 
busshi,  he  began  to  carve  secu- 
lar subjects  from  the  time  of  the 
first  French  exhibition.  Pupil  of 
Hozan. 

Toyama.  Ch5zo.  Present  day.  Carver 
in  ivory  of  Tokyo. 

Toyen.  igthcent.  (d.  1893.)  A  skilled 
wood-carver  of  Nara,  who  sculptured 
masks  of  great  excellence. 

Tsuji.  1 8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver. 
He  carved  in  wood  only,  not  in 
ivory. 

Tsukamoto.  Kaisuke.  Present  day.  A 
worker  in  cloisonne  enamels. 

Tsukuda.  Shukiyo.  Present  time.  A 
skilled  metal-sculptor,  celebrated  also 
for  combining  metals  so  as  to  pro- 
duce fine  effects  of  colour  harmonies. 
He  has  made  some  fine  iron  plaques 
with  designs  in  high  relief. 

Tsunekawa.  A  worker  in  cloisonne 
enamels.  There  were  four  bearing 
this  family  name.  All  were  pupils 
of  Kaji  Tsunekichi,  and  their  second 
names  were  Tatsuzayemon,  Yoshiro, 
Bunzayemon,  and  Seisuke. 


(  Workers  in  cloi- 

Uchikawa.     Yoshiro.   I   sonne    enamel ; 

Uchikawa.  Sabioye.  j  pupils  of  Kaji 
(^  Tsunekichi. 

Unjyu.  End  of  i8th  cent.  Netsuke- 
carver. 

Umpo.  Kajun.  1 8th  cent.  A  netsuke- 
carver  of  Osaka.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says :  "  He  was  a  religionist,  and 
carved  strange  Chinese  figures. 
None  of  his  work  is  without  colour 
or  made  of  ivory." 

Unju-doin.  Shimemaru.  1 8th  cent.  A 
netsuke-carver.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says :  "  His  other  names  are  un- 
known." 

N.B.  The  reference  here  is  to  the  fact 
that  "Unju-doin"  is  not  a  personal  name, 
but  a  Kaimiyo  ;  that  is  to  say,  a  Buddhist 
name  taken  by  a  person  of  the  better  classes 
on  retirement  from  active  affairs. 

"  This  man  lived  at  Kamishima 
in  Osaka  and  was  a  theologian.  He 
had  remarkable  glyptic  skill,  but 
never  exercised  it  except  by  request, 
so  that  few  of  his  works  survive  and 
his  name  is  not  much  known.  All 
his  carvings  are  of  the  style  called 
Kiji-bori  (i.e.,  uncoloured  wood),  or 
if  they  carry  colour,  it  is  only  just 
sufficient  to  mark  the  folds  of  the 
garments,"  etc. 

Wariu.  i8th  cent.  A  netsuke-carver. 
The  Soken  Kisho  says :  "  A  native 
of  Yedo  and  probably  a  pupil  of 
Miwa.  Most  of  his  carvings  re- 
semble those  of  Miwa." 

Washoin.  iSth  cent.  A  netsuke-carver 
of  Osaka.  The  Soken  Kisho  says 
that  he  was  a  religionist  and  that  his 
carvings  are  coloured,  resembling 
those  of  Umpo  Kajun  (i.e.,  wooden 
statuettes  of  mythical  Chinese  fig- 
ures). 

Watafugi.  Senzo.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamel ;  pupil  of  Hayashi 
Shogoro. 

Yahei.     (d.  1715.)     Metal-founder. 

Yamada.  Heizaburo,  or  Mampei.  igth 
cent.  (d.  1843.)  A  great  sculptor  of 
Nara-ningyo,  nearly  as  celebrated  as 
his  father,  Heiyemon.  He  was  also 
called  Jakugan  Jonen  Shinji.  His 
art  name  was  Bokuko  and  he  used 
the  mark  Shoju  Tsunenori. 

Yamada.  Mampei.  igthcent.  (d.  1889.) 
A  skilled  sculptor  of  Nara-ningyo ; 
brother  of  Yamada  Tsunenori. 


ARTIST    ARTIZANS 


Called  also  Jippoken  Taiyo,  or  ShSju 
Koretaka. 

Yamada.  Heiyemon.  i8th  and  igth 
cent.  (d.  1810.)  A  celebrated 
carver  of  Naraningyo.  Commonly 
called  Hohaku,  and  also  Shinniu  So- 
jun  Zenjomon.  The  carving  of  Nara- 
ningyo is  said  to  have  reached  its 
zenith  in  his  time.  He  used  the 
mark  Sh5ju.  Being  adopted  into 
the  Yamada  family,  he  and  his  de- 
scendants used  that  name. 

Yamada.  Heiyemon.  i8th  and  igth 
cent.  (d.  1825.)  The  most  cele- 
brated of  all  the  carvers  of  Nara- 
ningyo. Called  Sempo  Doyen  Shinji, 
and  also  Chokoku  no  ShSju  Yasu- 
hisa  (Shojii  Yasuhisa,  the  sculptor). 
His  art  name  was  Gyogetsu.  The 
painters,  Nagasa  Rosetsu  and  Mori 
Sosen,  lived  for  a  time  in  his  house 
in  order  to  study  the  forms  of  mon- 
keys and  deer  at  Nara. 

Yamada.  Shomin.  Present  day.  A 
netsuke-carver  of  Nagoya ;  pupil  of 
Masakazu. 

Yamada.  Gorobei  Munemitsu.  Pres- 
ent day.  A  metal-sculptor  of  Kaga 
celebrated  for  skill  in  repousse  work ; 
tenth  in  descent  from  Yamada  Ichi- 
yemon  lyemasa  (q.  v.). 

Yamada.  Gorobei  Muneyoshi.  Present 
day.  Son  of  Yamada  Munemitsu. 

Yamada.  Ichiyemon  lyemasa.  1 6th  and 
1 7th  cent.  An  armourer  of  Kana- 
zawa  (Kaga),  specially  skilled  in 
inlaying  with,  gold  and  silver.  The 
Yamada  family  continued  to  work  as 
armourers  through  nine  generations. 
The  present  representative  makes 
vases,  etc.,  decorated  in  the  repousse 
style  with  addition  of  inlaying.  The 
eight  generations  after  lyemasa  were : 
Yamada  lyetada  Jiyemon  (d.  1630). 
"  lyesada  Gorobei  (d.  1655). 
"  lyetsugu  Ichiyemon  (d. 

1685). 

"         Iyenagajinyemon(d.  1720). 
"         Nagakatsu      Gorobei      (d. 

1760). 
"         Nagamoto    Sanyemon     (d. 

1810). 

"         Nagayo  Gorobei  (d.  1840). 
"         lyemitsu  Gorobei  (d.  1860). 

Yamaguchi.  Okamoto.  iQth  cent.  (d. 
1875.)  A  netsuke-carver  of  Kyoto, 
highly  skilled  in  carving  rats,  puppies, 
snakes,  quail,  etc. 


Yamaguchi.  Tomochika.  First  half  of 
1 9th  cent.  A  great  netsuke-carver. 

Yamashiro.  i7th  cent.  A  contempo- 
rary and  fellow-worker  of  Yamada 
lyemasa  (q.  v.).  Commonly  known 
as  Hori  Joho,  Hori  being  his  original 
family  name  before  he  adopted  that 
of  Yamashiro.  He  was  also  called 
Yasuke  or  Yagoro,  A  great  metal- 
founder. 

Yamashiro.  (2d.)  i7th  cent.  Art 
name,  JSyei;  common  name,  Ya- 
suke. Metal-founder. 

Yamashiro.  (3d.)  i7th  cent.  Art 
name,  JSmin.  Called  also  Hori  Yo- 
sai.  Metal-founder. 

Yamashiro.  Ichibei.  i8th  and  igth 
cent.  Younger  brother  of  Hori 
Yosai.  Metal-founder. 

Yamashiro.  Tobei.  1 8th  and  igth  cent. 
Younger  brother  of  Hori  Yosai. 
Metal-founder. 

Yamazaki.  Choun.  Present  day.  A 
wood-carver  of  Tokyo. 

N.B.  Shiukai,  UnKai,  Reiun,  and  Choun, 
follow  European  methods,  making  their 
models  in  plaster  of  Paris  before  proceeding 
to  carve  the  subject  in  wood  or  stone. 

Yasui.  Yahioye.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne enamel ;  pupil  of  Tsukamoto 
Kaisuke. 

Yasumori.  igth  cent.  (d.  1845.)  A 
worker  in  cloisonne  enamel. 

Yasumoto.  Kamehachi.  Present  day. 
Wood-carver  of  Kumamoto  who 
works  in  the  style  of  Yamamoto 
Kisaburo  (q.  v.). 

Yemon.  Tazayemon.  i6th  cent.  A 
wood-carver  of  Nara,  commissioned 
by  the  Taiko  to  carve  a  shima-dai 
for  the  entertainment  of  the  Emperor 
at  the  Palace  of  Pleasure.  A  maker 
of  Nara-ningyo. 

Yemon.  Tazayemon.  1 2th  cent.  Called 
also  Uyemon  Taro.  A  wood-carver, 
said  to  have  been  the  first  to  chisel 
Nara-ningyo. 

Yoneharu.  Unkai.  Present  day.  A 
sculptor  of  Tokyo,  modern  school. 
He  works  in  wood,  and  also  in  a 
stone  called  Kansei-seki  (found  in 
Mito),  which  is  of  fine  texture  and 
can  be  chiselled  so  as  to  give  strong 
effects  of  light  and  shade. 

Yoshida.  Munetoshi.  Present  day. 
Ivory-carver  of  Tokyo. 

Yoshida.  Suketomo.  igthcent.  Wood- 
carver  of  Yedo. 


ARTIST    ARTI  Z  ANS 


Yoshimitsu.  Miyazaki.  (d.  1802.) 
Metal-founder.  Called  also  Hiko- 
kuro. 

Yoshimoto.  1 8th  cent.  The  Soken  Kisho 
says :  "  Nothing  is  known  of  this 
artist,  but  his  name  appears  on  some 
good  netsuke." 

Yoshimura.  Taiji.  A  worker  in  cloi- 
sonne* enamel ;  pupil  of  Kaji  Tsune- 
kichi. 

Yoshitsugu.  Miyazaki.  (d.  1773.)  Met- 
al-founder.  Called  also  Hikokuro. 

Yuchiku.  Present  day.  A  wood-carver 
of  Echizen  ;  son  of  Aichiku  (q.  v.). 

Yuchiku.  Present  day.  A  netsuke- 
carver  of  Nagoya. 

Yumemaru.  End  of  i8th  cent.  Net- 
suke-carver. 


Zenyemon.      i7th   and    i8th   cent.      (d. 

1734.)     A  celebrated  carver  of  Nara- 

ningyo.     Called  also  Yugaku  Josho 

Zenjomon. 
Zenyemon.      i7th   and    i8th  cent.     (d. 

1738.)     A    skilled    carver  of   Nara- 

ningyo.      Called    also   Joyei   Shinji. 

Had  the  art  rank  of  Hogen. 
Zenyemon.     i8th   cent.     (d.   1762.)    A 

carver  of  Nara-ningyo.     Called  also 

Shinji  Zenjomon. 
Zenyemon.     i8th   cent.     (d.    1765.)     A 

carver  of  Nara-ningyo.     Called  also 

Joko  Shinji. 
Zeraku.     i8th  cent.     A   netsuke-carver 

of  Yedo. 


•26 


ALPHABETICAL    LIST    OF     CHISEL- 
LERS    OF    SWORD-FURNITURE 


Adachi.     Yusai.     igth  cent.     Yedo. 

Akao.  Family  name  :  vide  Yoshistugu 
Tashichi. 

Akihiro.     19  cent.     Yedo. 

Akushi.  Tamagawa.  1700.  Founder 
of  the  Tamagawa  family  of  Mito. 

Aoki.     Family  name  :  -vide  Harustura. 

Aoyagi.  Family  name :  vide  Yoshi- 
mitsu. 

Arakawa.  Ikki.  igth  cent.  (d.  1895.) 
A  Tokyo  metal-chiseller  of  the  high- 
est skill. 

Arichika.  Kimura.  1850.  A  skilled 
artist  of  Tokyo,  pupil  of  Yasuchika 
(the  6th  generation  from  To-u). 

Arinobu.     19  cent.     Owari. 

Aritsune.  1 9th  cent.  Yedo.  Art  name, 
Kakutei. 

Asanji.     Watanabe.     1780.     Toyama. 

Atsuoki.  1 8th  and  igth  cent.  Art 
name,  Sensai. 

Atsuoki.  Sasayama.  1860.  Art  name, 
Ichigyosai.  A  Kyoto  expert  of  high 
rank.  One  of  the  best  carvers  of 
the  i  gth  cent. 

Ayabe.     Masayuki.     igth  cent.     Yedo. 

Bikwan.      Vide  Katahiro. 

Bunji.  1700.  An  expert ;  in  the  service 
of  the  feudal  chief  of  Owari. 

Bunjo.     Goto.     1690.     Kyoto. 

Bunsui.  Yoshida.  1650.  At  first  called 
Nomura  Rokubei.  A  pupil  of  Goto 
Renj5,  an  expert  of  the  first  rank. 
Specimens  bearing  his  name  are 
found  not  infrequently,  but  they  are 
all  forgeries,  as  he  is  known  never  to 
have  marked  any  of  his  work. 
Kyoto. 

Buzen.  Yoshioka.  1740.  An  artist 
who  worked  for  the  Tokugawa 
Court.  Yedo. 

Chiba.  Tomotane.  igth  cent.  A  metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Chikaatsu.  Yoshioka.  1690.  Otojiri. 
Yedo. 

Chikatomo.      Yoshioka.      1670.     Waki- 


chi.  A  pupil  of  Kiyasugu.  (Yoshi- 
oka.) Yedo. 

Chikatsugu.     Yoshioka.     1700.     Yedo. 

Chikayoshi.  Ishiguro.  1840.  Manno- 
suke.  Yedo. 

Chikuzanken.  Vide  Matosada.  (Oga- 
wa.) 

Chiruiken.      Vide    Takahiro.     (Yasui.) 

Chitomo.  Chiyo.  1760.  Called  also 
Chiusuke.  An  expert  of  Tsuyama. 

Chiubei.  Iwamoto.  1680.  Founded 
the  Iwamoto  family  of  Yedo. 
Worked  in  Yedo. 

Chiubei.  Tokaya.  1700.  A  pupil  of 
Somin.  Yedo. 

Chiubei.  1650.  Saburohei.  A  skilled 
artist  of  Kaga,  in  the  employ  of  the 
feudal  chief  of  that  province. 

Chiusaku.  1700.  An  artist  of  Yechi- 
zen,  who  worked  skilfully  in  the 
Kinai  style. 

Chobei.  Kikugawa.  1720.  Muneyoshi. 
An  artist  of  the  highest  skill  in  the 
Shizumebori  style.  He  chiselled 
flowers,  especially  chrysanthemums, 
with  such  ability  that  the  term 
Chobei-Kiku  (Chobei  chrysanthe- 
mum) came  to  be  generally  applied 
to  fine  work  of  that  class.  His  son 
and  grandson  had  the  same  name 
and  worked  in  similar  style. 
Yedo. 

Chojo.  Goto.  1590.  Commonly  called 
Shichibei.  Son  of. Goto  Kojo  and 
founder  of  the  Kami-Goto  family, 
Kyoto,  and  afterwards  Mino. 

Chokuzui.      Vide  Naoyori. 

Chokwaku.  Goto.  1700.  Nothing  cer- 
tain is  known  about  this  expert.  He 
is  said  to  have  been  adopted  into 
the  Shoami  family,  and  he  worked 
in  Kyoto. 

Chooken.      Vide  Motomori  (Nemoto). 

Choroku.  Shoami.  1820.  An  expert 
of  Aizu. 

Chosendo.      Vide  Terumitsu  (Omori). 


CHISELLERS 


Chounsai.  Yoshitane.  ipth  cent.  A 
metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Daimonji-ya.     Vide  Gorobei. 

Daisuke.  Shoami.  1530.  Founder  of 
the  Oshiu  branch  of  the  Shoami 
family.  Morioka  (Nambu). 

Dempachi.     Muneta.     1650.     Kyoto. 

Denjo.  Goto.  1570.  Called  also  Mit- 
suhiro,  son  of  Goto  Tokujo.  Kyoto. 

Dennai.  Shoami.  1600.  An  expert  of 
Akita  (in  Dewa). 

Denzaburo.  Wakabayashi.  1690.  Called 
also  Kaneko.  Toyama. 

Denzaburo.  Kaneko.  1690.  A  pupil 
of  Goto  Tsujo.  Worked  at  Toyama 
(Yetchiu). 

Denzaburo.  Yokoya.  1780.  Called 
also  Tamotake.  Yedo. 

Donin.     Vide  Hikoshiro.     (Hirata.) 

Dopposai.  Vide  Mitsuyuki.  (Kiku- 
oka.) 

Doriu.  Hasebe.  1640.  A  pupil  of 
Gioto  Yechijo.  Residence  uncer- 
tain. 

Fucho.  Dainichi.  1750.  An  expert  of 
Osaka,  whose  work  is  much  admired 
by  Japanese  connoisseurs  for  chaste- 
ness  and  delicacy.  He  had  some 
reputation  as  a  poet. 

Fujii.  Masahiko.  Present  day.  Metal 
sculptor.  Pupil  of  Unno  Shomin. 

Fujiki.      Vide  Masayuki  (Tsuji). 

Fujiwara.  Kiyotoshi.  igthcent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Fukawa.  Kazuo.  Present  day.  An 
eminent  metal-sculptor. 

Fukushige.  ShSami.  1580.  Worked 
in  Owari,  after  the  style  of  Yama- 
yoshibei. 

Fuko.      Vide  Takanaga  (Yasui). 

Fumiyo.  1890.  Art  name,  Kansai.  A 
pupil  of  Natsuo ;  considered  one  of 
the  best  recent  chisellers  of  iron 
guards. 

Funada  (Katsutani).  Nakazawa.  I9th 
cent.  Skilled  metal-worker  of  Yedo. 
Art  name,  Ikkin. 

Funakoshi.  Shummin.  Present  day. 
A  great  metal-chiseller  who  adopts 
the  styles  of  Matsuo  and  Shomin. 
A  pupil  of  Ikedo  Minkoku,  who  had 
been  taught  by  Haruaki  (q.  v.).  He 
took  the  two  ideographs  ffaru  (Shun) 
and  Min  to  form  his  art  name  of 
Shummin.  His  chiselling  is  very 
fine,  and  he  is  admirably  skilled  in 
repousse  work. 

Fusamitsu.     Vide  Yeiju. 


Fusanao.     Fujiki.      1690.      Called    also 

Kobachi.     A  pupil  of   Goto    Shujo 

(Mitsutaka),  Yedo. 
Fusanori.     Miyochiu.     1560.     A  skilled 

expert.     Kamakura, 
Fusayori.       Hamano.       1790.       Kiuzo. 

Known   also   as    Yeizui.     A  skilled 

expert   of    Yedo.     Art  name,  Riyo- 

chiken. 
Fusayoshi.     Miyochin.     1550.     A  great 

expert.       Especially    celebrated    for 

chiselling    chrysanthemums   a  jour. 

Worked    in    Kozuke    and    also  in 

Kiushiu. 
Gakan.     Fuse.     1610.     A  pupil  of  Goto 

Yeijo.     Kyoto. 
Gammon.     Vide  Yoshitsune. 
Ganshoji.     Vide  Nagatsune. 
Gantoshi.     Masuhiro. 
Geki.     1750.    A  skilled  expert  of  Sendai, 

where  chiselling  is  very  delicate. 
Gekkindo.      Vide  Masatatsu. 
Gembei.     Uyemura.     1720.     A  pupil  of 

Munemine.     His  house  was  known 

as  Masuya.     Kyoto. 
Gempachi.     Goto.     1620.     Kyoto. 
Gempachi.     Mizuno.      1650.      A  skilled 

expert,  but  died  very  young.     Kaga. 
Genchin.     Furukawa.     1680.    Kichijiro. 

Also    called    Shoju.      A    pupil    of 

Somin.     He  carved  admirably  in  his 

master's  style.     (Katakiri.)     Yedo. 
Genji.     Mizuno.      Vide  Teruyoshi. 
Genjo.     Goto.     1550.     Younger  brother 

of   Kojo,  the  4th  Goto  master.     A 

great  expert,  generally  spoken  of  as 

Goto  Kumbei.     Kyoto. 
Genjo.     Goto.     1550.     Kyoto. 
Genjo.     Goto.     1690.     Called  also  Mit- 

suyoshi  and  Kambei.     Kyoto. 
Genjo.     Goto.     1630.    Sometimes  called 

Kakujo.     Kyoto. 
Genjo.      Vide  Narimasa. 
Genju.      i gth    cent.        Metal-worker  of 

Yedo.     Art  name,  Taizanken. 
Genjuken.      Vide  Motoharu  (Katoji). 
Gen-no-jo.     Goto.     1670.     Kyoto. 
Genroku.     Mizuno.      Vide  Mitsumasa. 
Genshichi.     Mizuno.     1650.     A   skilled 

expert,   but   died   very   young.     He 

and  Gempachi  were  sons  of  Yoshi- 

nori-Kaga. 

Gentaro.     Goto.     1690.     Kyoto. 
Genyemon.     Goto.     1690.     Called  also 

Mitsuhisa.     Kyoto. 
Gishinken.     Vide  Koretsune. 
Giyemon.     Kimura.     1670.     A  pupil  of 

Goto  Kambei.     Kyoto. 


CHISELLERS 


Giyokuriuken.      Vide  Katsushiro. 

Gokokuzan.  Mitsunaka.  iSthandigth 
cent.  A  skilled  worker  of  Yedo. 

Gon-no-j6.  1780.  A  pupil  of  Iwamoto 
K\vanri,  and  a  skilled  expert.  Sen- 
dai. 

Gorobei.  1700.  His  house  was  called 
Daimonjiya.  A  celebrated  guard- 
maker,  whose  decoration  &  jour  was 
of  the  most  elaborate  and  delicate 
character.  His  works  came  to  be 
called  "  Daigoro-tsuba,"  a  term  sub- 
sequently synonymous  with  particu- 
larly choice  open-work  chiselling. 
Kyoto. 

Goro-saku-bori.     Vide  Yoshishige. 

Goroyemon.  Ukai.  1740.  A  skilled 
expert  of  Osaka ;  the  teacher  of 
Fucho. 

Goto.  Yoshinori.  i8th  and  igth  cent. 
Yedo. 

Goto.     Mitsuyoshi.      Vide  Yenjo. 

Goto.     Denjo.     igth  cent.     Yedo. 

Goto.     Mitsubumi.     igth  cent.     Yedo. 

Goto.  T5jo.  i gth  cent.  A  skilled 
worker  of  Yedo.  Received  the  art 
title  of  Hokyo. 

Goto.  Yoshitoru.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  metal-chiseller  of  Osaka. 

Gyokkeisha.      Vide  Masayori. 

Hachibei.  Tokita.  1630.  A  pupil  of 
Goto  Yekijo  and  a  fine  expert. 
Kyoto. 

Hachirobei.  Goto.  1790.  An  expert 
of  one  of  the  Kyoto  branch  families 
of  the  Goto.  Art  name,  Kenjo. 

Hakuhotei.      Vide  Kankwan. 

Hakuunshi.      Vide  Koreo. 

Hakushusai.     Vide  Masanaka. 

Hamano.  Chiku-yuki.  igth  cent.  A 
metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Hambei.  Inouye.  1750.  A  pupil  of 
Inouye  Shigeyasu.  Kyoto. 

Hankeishi.      Vide  Masayori. 

Haruaki.  Kono.  1830.  ChuizS  or 
Bunzo.  Art  names,  Geisuo,  Sanso, 
Taio.  A  pupil  of  Yanagawa  Nao- 
haru.  Had  no  fixed  place  of  abode, 
but  worked  chiefly  in  Yedo.  A 
contemporary  of  Goto  Ichijo  and 
one  of  the  greatest  experts  of  the 
1 9th  century.  Attained  the  title  of 
Hogen. 

Haruchika.  1 8th  and  i  gth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Haruhiro.  Nakamura.  1820.  Itahei. 
A  pupil  of  Harunari  (Hirata).  Yedo. 

Haruhisa.     Nishimura.     1820.     Ginjiro. 


A  pupil  of  Harunari  (Hirata). 
Yedo. 

Harukuni.  Okamoto.  1760.  Dembei. 
An  artist  of  great  reputation,  whose 
skill  in  manipulating  iron  was  such 
that  he  received  the  name  of  Tetsuya 
Dembei  (Dembei  the  iron-worker). 
He  founded  the  Okamoto  family  of 
Kyoto,  and  was  the  teacher  of  the 
still  more  celebrated  Tetsuya  Gembei. 
In  early  life  he  called  himself  Kuni- 
haru.  Kyoto. 

Harumasa.  Otsuka.  1820.  Shichibei. 
A  pupil  of  Harunari  (Hirata). 

Harunari.  Hirata.  1810.  Hikoshiro. 
Eighth  and  best  of  the  Hirata  ex- 
perts. Called  also  Tomokichi.  Yedo. 

Harushige.  Yanagawa.  1860.  A 
skilled  expert  of  Yedo ;  teacher  of 
Koji  of  Kanazawa. 

Harutomo.  Omura.  1820.  A  pupil  of 
Harunari  (Hirata).  Yedo. 

Harutoshi.  Uchino.  1820.  Tojiro. 
called  also  Ichigenshi.  A  pupil  of 
Harunari  and  a  skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Harutsugu.  1820.  A  pupil  of  Harun- 
ari (Hirata).  Yedo. 

Harutsura.  Aoki.  1830.  A  Kyoto  ex- 
pert of  the  very  highest  skill. 
Teacher  of  the  celebrated  Natsuo. 
His  works  are  among  the  finest  of 
the  1 9th  century. 

Haruyori.  Hamano.  1810.  Ginjiro. 
A  skilled  expert  generally  called 
Shunzui.  Yedo. 

Hashimoto.  Isshi.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo ;  very  skilful  and 
prolific. 

Heisuke.  Shoami.  1770.  Heishichi. 
An  expert  of  Tsuyama  in  Mimasaku. 

Hideaki.  Ishiguro.  1850.  Kinjiro. 
Yedo. 

Hidechika.  Nomura.  1779.  A  pupil 
of  Masahide  (Nomura).  His  real 
name  was  Ichikawa  Magohei.  Yedo. 

Hidekatsu.  Shoami.  1770.  An  expert 
of  Matsuyama  in  lyo. 

Hidekiyo.  Komatsu.  1800.  Senno- 
suke.  A  pupil  of  Teruhide  (Omori). 
A  celebrated  expert.  Yedo. 

Hidekuni.  Kawarabayashi.  1860.  A 
Kyoto  expert  of  great  skill.  Art 
name,  Tenkodo. 

Hidemasa.  Shoami.  1740.  An  expert 
of  Matsuyama  in  lyo. 

Hidemasa.  Nomura.  '1780.  Denzaye- 
mon.  Original  family  was  Yano. 
Awa. 


CHISELLERS 


Hidemitsu.  Omori.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Hidenori.  Vide  Soden.  According  to 
some  authorities,  Hidenori  and  So- 
den were  distinct,  and  both  worked 
in  the  same  style  at  Hikone. 

Hidenori.  Shiraishi.  1800.  Denkichi. 
A  pupil  of  Teruhide  (Omori). 
Worked  at  Hirado  in  Hizen. 

Hideo.     Naomaru.    t  Vide  Onishi. 

Hideoki.  Omori.  "igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Hidesaburo.  1760.  One  of  the  pupils 
of  the  Akao  family,  who  carved  in 
the  style  of  Yoshitsugu  Kohei. 
Yedo. 

Hideshige.  Tsuchiya.  i8th  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Hidetake.  Yoshioka.  1670.  Kizayemon. 
Generally  known  as  Yoshioka  Kizay- 
emon. A  pupil  of  Yoshioka  Kiyo- 
tsugu,  and  a  skilled  expert.  Sendai. 

Hidetomi.  Kusakari.  1800.  Kiuzo. 
A  pupil  of  Teruhide  (Omori). 
Sendai. 

Hidetomo.  Omori.  1800.  Sadabei.. 
Called  himself  Riurinsai.  A  pupil 
of  Teruhide  (Omori),  and  a  skilled 
expert.  Yedo. 

Hidetsugu.  Uyemura.  1740.  Ihei. 
A  pupil  of  Takafusa  (Uyemura). 
Kyoto. 

Hideyasu.  iQth  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo. 

Hideyori.  Hayata.  1800.  Heishiro. 
A  pupil  of  Teruhide  (Omori). 
Worked  at  Hirado  in  Hizen. 

Hideyori.  1810.  Commonly  called 
Shuzui.  Yedo. 

Hideyoshi.  Omori.  1800.  Kitaro,  and 
sometimes  called  Sakai  Itsuki. 
Called  himself  Ittokusai.  A  pupil 
of  Teruhide  (Omori),  and  a  skilled 
expert.  Yedo. 

Hikokoro.      Vide  Yasuyuki. 

Hikoshiro.  Hirata.  1620.  Called  Do- 
nin.  The  first  to  employ  cloisonne 
enamels  in  the  decoration  of  sword- 
furniture.  Such  work  became  thence- 
forth a  specialty  of  the  Hirata  fam- 
ily. Yedo. 

Hikoshiro.  Wakabayashi.  1740.  Son 
of  Kokusui,  and  an  expert  of  note. 
Toyama  (Yetchiu  province). 

Hirakuni.     1650.     Sanyemon.     Kaga. 

Hirakuni.  Akao.  1810.  An  expert  of 
Sendai  who  carved  in  the  style  of 
Tempo. 


Hirata.  Soko.  Present  day.  A  skilled 
uchimono-shi  of  Tokyo. 

Hirayori.  Hamano.  1810.  Commonly 
called  Kiuzui.  Yedo. 

Hiroaki.  Ishiguro.  1850.  Zenkichi. 
Yedo. 

Hiromasa.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo.  Art  name,  Toju. 

Hirosada.     Miyochin.     1850.    Art  name, 

'  Kingyokudo.     A   skilled   expert   of 

Yedo.     Remarkable  for  making  s/ia- 

kudo  dragons  with    rounded   scales. 

Often  used  the  mark  Cofu  Saishin. 

Hirotoshi.     Otherwise  called  Kwanri. 

Hirotoshi.  Uchikoshi.  1810.  Yenzo. 
Originally  known  as  Konishi  Bunshi- 
chi.  Art  name,  Ichijosai.  A  great 
expert  of  Kyoto.  Studied  under 
Yoshinaga  (Tamagawa). 

Hiroyoshi.  Kuwamura.  1630.  Sazaye- 
mon.  A  great  expert.  Pupil  of 
Goto  Teijo.  He  was  appointed  to 
work  for  the  Daimyo  Daishoji  Hida- 
no-Kami,  and  had  an  annual  allow- 
ance of  100  Koku  of  rice.  He  called 
himself  Koko,  and  afterwards  Joku. 
Kaga. 

Hiroyori.  Murata.  1750.  Ikujiro. 
Known  also  as  Kwanzui.  Called 
himself  Ichiy5ken.  Yedo. 

Hisachika.  Ishiguro.  1840.  Kanejiro. 
Yedo. 

Hisaharu.  Suzuki.  1810.  Tetsujiro. 
A  pupil  of  Kiyohisa  (Tanaka).  Yedo. 

Hisakiyo.  Hamano.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Hisakiyo.  Goto.  1670.  Shichibei.  A 
skilled  expert.  His  carvings  of  grapes 
and  bees  on  fuchi  and  kashira  are 
celebrated.  Kaga. 

Hisamitsu.  Watanabe.  1810.  Chiu- 
goro.  Art  name,  Tokosai.  A  pupil 
of  Kiyohisa  (Tanaka).  Yedo. 

N.B.    The  name  is  also  pronounced  To- 
shimksu. 

Hisanaga.  Nara.  1710.  A  pupil  of 
Toshihisa.  Some  of  his  carvings 
are  marked  Denzo.  An  expert  of 
great  skill.  Yedo. 

Hisanori.  Nara.  1770.  Signed  many 
of  his  works  Unteido.  Yedo. 

Hisateru.  Kunesake.  1810.  Ginjiro. 
A  pupil  of  Kiyohisa  (Tanaka). 
Yedo. 

Hisatsugu.  Takahashi.  1820.  Kane- 
jiro. Art  name,  T5unsai.  Aizu. 

Hisatsugu.      Yoshioka.     1640.     Rizaye- 


3° 


CHISELLERS 


mon.  At  first  called  Shigeyoshi. 
Third  son  of  Shigetsugu.  Yedo. 

Hisayori.     Nara.     1760.     Yedo. 

Hisayori.  Hamano.  1800.  Hanai. 
Commonly  called  Juzui.  Yedo. 

Hiyobu.  Hogen.  Nomura.  1790.  Pos- 
thumous name,  Minamoto  Masayori. 
Artistically  known  as  Yusen  or  Hi- 
yobu-jo,  and  called  in  literary  circles 
Shjoishi-gekkaan-koo.  Eldest  son 
of  Masahide  (Nomura).  He  received 
the  honorary  title  of  Hogen  in  recog- 
nition of  his  artistic  skill. 

Hiyoji.  Kawakami.  1770.  Toyama 
(Yetchiu). 

Hogiyokusai.      Vide  Koretsune. 

H5J6.      Vide  Mitsuaki  (Goto). 

Ho  jo.  Goto.  1670.  Mitsukata.  Ky- 
oto. 

Hoju.      Vide  Tomihisa. 

Hokiusai.      Vide  Naofusa. 

Honjo.      Vide  Narikado. 

Horiaki.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo. 

Horiuken.      Vide  Takaru.     Yeiji. 

Hosuiken.  Tsuchiya.  i8th  and  igth 
cent.  Metal-worker  of  Kaga. 

Hozanken.      Vide  Motonori  (Yasuyama). 

Huzui.      Vide  Yasuyori  and  Toyoyori. 

Ichibei.  Nara.  1730.  Pupil  of  the 
celebrated  Yasuchika.  He  was 
known  as  "  Miidera  Ichibei,"  on 
account  of  the  beauty  of  the  land- 
scapes of  the  temple  of  Miidera 
carved  on  \a&fiicki  and  kashira. 

Ichiga.  Yamazaki.  1770.  Niziyemon. 
There  were  five  experts  called  Ichiga. 
The  first  flourished  in  1670,  and  was 
a  pupil  of  Goto  Shujo ;  the  fifth,  at 
the  close  of  the  i8th  cent.  All 
were  fine  carvers.  Kyoto. 

Ichigenshi.      Vide  Harutoshi. 

Ichigyosai.      Vide  Atsuoki. 

Ichijiusai.      Vide  Mitsutatsu. 

Ichijo.  Goto.  One  of  the  greatest  ex- 
perts of  the  i  gth  cent.  Born,  1791 ; 
died,  1876.  Taught  in  Kyoto,  but 
worked  in  Tokyo.  Received  the 
title  of  Hokyo  in  recognition  of  his 
skill. 

Ichiju.  Takeshima.  1600.  Tozayemon. 
A  pupil  of  Goto  Tsujo.  A  splendid 
artist,  standing  in  the  highest  rank. 
Yedo. 

Ichimudo.      Vide  Terutoki.     (Omori.) 

Ichirobei.  Yamada.  1700.  An  expert 
of  Nagasaki  who  made  guards  of  the 
Kanto-tsuba  style  ;  namely,  decorated 


with  Chinese  figures  and  land- 
scapes. 

Ichiroyemon.  Tanaka.  1700.  A  skilled 
artist  of  Satsuma. 

Ichiruisai.  Vide  Tomoyoshi.  (Kiku- 
gawa.) 

Ichiso.  Kawada.  1720.  A  Satsuma 
expert. 

Ichiunsai.      Vide  Masayoshi. 

Ichiyeian.      Vide  Korestune. 

Ichiyemon.  1610.  A  pupil  of  Goto 
Yetsujo.  A  skilled  expert.  Kaga. 

Ichiyodo.      Vide  Mitsuyori. 

Ichiyoken.      Vide  Hiroyori. 

Ichizayemon.  Fukui.  1660.  A  pupil 
of  Goto  Yetsujo.  A  skilled  artist. 
Kaga. 

Ichizo.      Vide  Nariyuki  and  Narisuke. 

Ihei.  Inouye.  1750.  A  pupil  of  In- 
ouye  Shigeyasu. 

Ikedo.  igth  cent.  (d.  1897.)  A  great 
metal-chiseller  of  Tokyo.  One  of 
the  last  carvers  of  sword-furniture. 

Ikken.  Present  day.  A  skilled  metal- 
chiseller  of  Tokyo. 

Ikkin.  Funada.  1840.  Shosuke.  An 
artist  of  skill  who  studied  for  some 
time  under  Goto  Ichijo  and  finally 
worked  in  Kyoto. 

Inaba-no-suke.  Yoshioka.  A  title  borne 
by  four  celebrated  artists  of  the  old 
Yoshioka  family  ;  namely,  Shige- 
hiro  (1600),  Yasutsugu  (1610),  Kiyo- 
tsugu  (1636),  and  Terutsugu  (1680), 
and  by  those  of  lesser  note  in  modem 
times.  The  mark  "  Inaba-no-suke  " 
was  not  permitted  to  be  used  when- 
ever a  member  of  the  noble  family 
of  Inaba  (distinct  from  the  Yoshioka 
.  family)  happened  to  hold  the  posi- 
tion of  Councillor  of  state  (Goroju). 

Inagawa.  Family  name.  I'ide  Naoka- 
tsu  and  Yoshikatsu. 

Injo.      Goto.     1620.    Mitsutomi.    Kyoto. 

Iranken.  Shoami.  1570.  An  expert  of 
Owari. 

Ishin.  Shoami.  1800.  An  expert  of 
Matsuyama  in  lyo. 

Issai.      Vide  Tokiakira. 

Isshiken.    Vide  Okinari. 

Issho.  Nakagawa.  1860.  A  skilled  ar- 
tist of  Yedo. 

Isshunan.      Vide  Masyori. 

Itao.  Shinjiro.  Present  day.  A  highly 
skilled  metal-chiseller  of  Kagawa 
(in  Kishiu).  He  manufactures  iron 
dragons,  eagles,  crabs,  etc.  with  uni- 
versal joints,  as  skilfully  as  did  the 


31 


CHISELLERS 


great  Miyochin  Yoshihisa,  and  many 
of  his  masterpieces  have  been  sold 
in  foreign  markets  as  Miyochin's 
work.  Formerly  he  was  employed 
solely  by  Yamanaka,  the  well-known 
dealer  of  Osaka,  and  subsequently 
by  Sano  of  Tokyo. 

Ito.     Vide  Masanaga  and  Masatsune. 

ItO.  Shoyei.  Present  day.  Metal-sculp- 
tor. Pupil  of  Unno  Sh5min. 

Ito,  Katsumi.  Masatatsu.  Present  day. 
A  metal  sculptor  of  the  highest  skill. 
Tenth  representative  of  the  Ito  fam- 
ily founded  by  Ito  Masanaga,  who 
with  all  his  descendants,  down  to 
the  present  representative,  were  ma- 
kers of  sword  guards  for  the  Toku- 
gawa  Shoguns.  A  pupil  of  the  cele- 
brated Toriusai,  his  early  years  (he 
was  born  in  1829),  were  devoted  to 
chiselling  sword-furniture.  In  1860, 
he  was  adopted  into  the  Ito  family, 
his  rival  for  that  honour  having  been 
the  equally  celebrated  Kano  Natsuo. 
From  1864  he  was  directed  by  the 
ShOguns  to  inscribe  the  name  Kat- 
sumi upon  his  guards,  etc.,  but  in 
later  years  he  used  the  mark  Taikiu. 
After  the  Restoration  (1867)  he  de- 
voted his  chisel  to  carving  metal 
objects  suited  to  the  changed  tastes 
of  the  time;  as  plaques,  paper- 
weights, book-markers,  etc. 

Itoku.      Vide  Masanori. 

Ittoku.  Tsuji.  1750.  Gendayu.  Art 
name,  Ransuido.  An  expert  of  Omi. 

Ittosai.      Vide  Teruhide  (Omori). 

Iwama.  Masayoshi.  igthcent.  A  metal 
worker  of  Yedo. 

lyefusa.  Miyochin.  1560.  Pupil  of 
the  celebrated  Nobuiye,  and  a  great 
expert.  Odawara. 

lyehisa.  Miyochin.  1600.  A  great  ex- 
pert. Sagami. 

lyemori.  Shoami.  1 790.  A  kyoto  ex- 
pert skilled  in  inlaying  with  gold. 

lyenori.  Saotome.  1550.  A  pupil  of 
the  celebrated  Nobuiye  and  a  skilled 
expert.  Hitachi. 

lyesada.  1 560.  Highly  skilled  for  chis- 
elling a  jour;  Said  to  have  been  a 
pupil  of  Nobuiye. 

lyesada.  Shoami.  1670.  An  expert  of 
Matsuyama  in  lyo. 

lyetaka.     Vide  Shigeyoshi  Tsunetada. 

Izawa.  Tadatsura.  igth  cent,  (d.  1875.) 
A  metal-worker  of  Nagoya,  particu- 
larly skilled  in  producing  the  tama- 


mokume  grain  ;  which  is  obtained  by 
putting  balls  (tama)  of  different 
metal  into  a  cylinder,  heating  the 
latter  red,  and  then  beating  the 
whole  mass  together. 

Jakui.      Vide   Katsuhisa.     (Kuwamura.) 

Jakushi.      Vide  Kizayemon. 

Jichikuken.      Vide  Motonaga,    (Ogawa). 

Jidayu.  Wakabayashi.  1710.  Ozawa. 
Toyama. 

Jikakushi.     Vide  Koreyoshi. ' 

Jikiyokusai.     Vide  Masakiyo. 

Jikokusai.      Vide  Masatsune. 

Jikosai.      Vide  Masayoshi. 

Jikyo-sai.  One  of  the  art  names  of 
Ishiguro  Masayoshi. 

Jimiyo.     Vide  Masatsune. 

Jimpo.  Nomura.  1750.  Tsu  Hachiye- 
mon.  Generally  known  as  Tsu 
Jimpo.  A  pupil  of  Masanori.  (No- 
mura.) A  grand  artist ;  one  of  the 
greatest  masters.  He  died  in  1762 
at  the  age  of  52.  Kyoto.  (Many 
imitations  of  his  work  exist.) 

Jingo.  1630.  A  guard-maker  of  Yat- 
sushiro.  His  specialty  was  inlaying 
iron  with  brass  designs  in  high 
relief.  Hence  guards  in  that  style 
are  called  jingo-tsuba. 

Jinyemon.      Vide  Mitsuaki. 

Jinyemon.  Goto.  1550.  Founded  the 
Noto  branch  of  the  Goto  family,  but 
afterwards  lived  and  worked  in 
Kaga.  A  great  expert. 

Jiriuken.      Vide  Teruaki.     (Yokoya.) 

Jiriuken.  Miyaki.  1720.  A  pupil  of 
S5y5.  His  early  work  is  mediocre, 
but  in  his  later  years  he  carved 
grandly.  Yedo. 

Jiriuken.      Vide  Tsuneyuki. 

Jiriusai.      Vide  Toshiharu. 

Jiriyusai.      Vide  Tsuneyuki. 

Jiro-saku-bori.  Vide  Kuninaga  and 
Yoshishige. 

Jitekisai.      Vide  Yoshisato. 

Jitsujo.     Goto.     1660.     Kyoto. 

Jiujiro.  Suzuki.  1840.  A  skilled  ex- 
pert of  Tokyo. 

Jiuyemon.  Kurose.  1650.  A  pupil  of 
Goto  Renjo.  Kyoto. 

Jizaburo.  Tamagawa.  1800.  Worked 
in  Mito. 

Jizan.      Vide  Nagayoshi. 

J5chi.  Sasaki.  1630.  Shobei.  A  pupil 
of  Goto  Yenjo.  Kyoto. 

Jochiku.  Isono.  1630.  Originally  called 
Matsuya  Bunyemon,  but  afterwards 
Kozayemon.  A  celebrated  expert 


CHISELLERS 


both  as  a  carver  and  as  an  inlayer. 
Kyoto. 

Jochin.  Furukawa.  1790.  A  skilled 
expert,  even  better  than  his  father 
Genchin.  His  carving  is  generally 
incised,  but  sometimes  in  relief. 
Yedo. 

Jdchiu.  1640.  A  pupil  of  J5chiku  and 
almost  as  fine  an  expert.  The  works 
of  the  two  men  are  often  confounded. 
He  was  subsequently  adopted  by 
J5chiku.  Kyoto. 

J6ha.    Goto.     1580.    Mitsunobu.    Kyoto. 

Johaku.  1640.  Wasuke.  A  pupil  of 
Jochiku  and  a  skilled  expert ;  after- 
wards changed  his  name  to  Shoyei. 
Yedo. 

Joi.  Nara.  1720.  One  of  the  greatest 
masters.  A  pupil  of  Nara  Zenzo 
(Hisanaga).  He  displayed  extra- 
ordinary skill  in  shishi-ai  carving, 
and  is  considered  the  peer  of  the 
"  Three  Nara  Masters."  ( Vide 
Toshihisa.  He  sometimes  marked 
his  works  Issando  Nagaharu.  Yedo. 

Jokan  Inshi.      Vide  Mitsutsune. 

Joken.    Goto.   1680.   Mitsuyoshi.  Kyoto. 

Joku.      Vide  Hiroyoshi. 

Jokwo.  Torii.  1740.  Uhei.  Com- 
monly known  as  Masuya  Ukei- 
Osayka. 

Jomi.  Yeizuke.  Present  day.  A  great 
metal-worker  of  Kyoto,  (b.  1839.) 
Celebrated  for  vases  of  woven 
metals ;  for  various  beautiful  patinas ; 
and  for  plaques  with  elaborately 
chiselled  landscapes.  Jomi  is  his 
art  name ;  Yasuchika  his  personal 
name. 

Jorin.  Goto.  1630.  Uhei.  A  skilled 
expert  of  Osaka.  Called  also  Mit- 
sunari.  Kyoto. 

Joriu.  1640.  A  pupil  of  Jochik\i. 
Yedo. 

Josen.     Goto.     1620.     Kyoto. 

Joshin.  Goto.  1540.  The  third  of  the 
great  Goto  masters.  Kyoto. 

Joshiu.      Vide  Mitsutomo. 

Jotetsu.  Isono.  1660.  A  daughter  of 
Jochiku.  Her  work  is  generally 
spoken  of  as  Musume-bori,  or  "the 
girls'  carving."  Kyoto. 

Jotoku.  1650.  Date  uncertain.  A 
Yedo  expert,  supposed  to  have  been 
a  pupil  of  Jochiku. 

J5unsai.      Vide  Shiratoshi. 

Jounsai.      Vide  Kwanri. 

Jowa.     Vide  Masachika  (Nara). 


Joyeiken.      Vide  Takakiyo  (Sakawa). 

Joyeiken.     Vide  Yoshihisa. 

Joyen.     Goto.     1600.     Kyoto. 

Joyen.  Fujii.  1660.  A  pupil  of  Goto 
Ren  jo.  Kyoto. 

Joyen.  Fujinaka.  1700.  A  pupil  of 
Masanori  Nomura.  Yedo. 

J6yo.    Goto.    1670.    Mitsuchika.    Kyoto. 

Jozui.      Vide  Sukeyori. 

Jubei.  Aoki.  1580.  Generally  regarded 
as  the  second  generation  of  Kaneiye. 
Was  employed  by  the  feudal  chief 
of  Higo  and  settled  at  Hasuike. 
Art  name,  Tetsujin.  A  great  ex- 
pert, remarkably  skilled  in  the  mak- 
ing of  iron  guards.  He  inlaid  some 
of  his  guards  with  brass. 

Jugyokusai.  This  art  name  was  origi- 
nally used  by  Katsuyoshi,  and  is 
now  employed  by  his  pupil  Yoshi- 
kawa  Issei ;  both  metal-chisellers  in 
the  Ishiguro  style. 

Juj5.  Goto.  1720.  The  twelfth  Goto 
master. 

Junjo.  Goto.  1650.  Called  also  Mit- 
suakira.  Kyoto. 

Juzo.      Vide  Kiyotoshi. 

Juzui.      Vide  Hisayori. 

Kagawa.  Katsushiro.  Present  day.  A 
highly  skilled  metal-chiseller  of 
Tokio ;  pupil  of  Mori  Ryoken  and 
of  Matsuo.  He  spent  five  years  chis- 
elling a  five  branched  Paullownia 
within  a  square  of  o.iS  in.  side  for  the 
furniture  of  a  sword  belonging  to  the 
Emperor. 

Kagawa.  Katsushiro.  Present  time. 
A  highly  skilled  worker  in  metal. 
Famous  for  chiselling  naturalistic 
subjects  as  plaques,  vases,  etc.,  using 
several  metals.  Has  been  employed 
to  carve  sword  furniture  for  the 
Emperor. 

Kageiye.  Miyochin.  1560.  A  cele- 
brated expert.  Sagami. 

Kahei.  Mori.  1700.  A  pupil  of  Yana- 
gawa  Naomasa.  Yedo. 

Kaigunshi.      Vide  Kaneyuke. 

Kaijo.   Goto.    1620.    Mitsutsune.    Kyoto. 

Kaijo.    Goto.   1660.   Mitsukatsu.   Kyoto. 

Kaizantei.    Vide  Motochika.    (Hayama.) 

Kajima.  Ippu.  igth  cent.  (d.  1860.) 
A  metal-chiseller  of  Yedo,  who 
made  kanamono,  ita-gusari,  ojime, 
etc. 

Kajima.  Ippu.  Present  day.  One  of 
the  greatest  metal-workers  of  the 
century.  From  1855  to  1887,  he 


33 


CHISELLERS 


produced  only  sleeve  links,  bracelets, 
broaches,  etc.,  for  the  foreign  market, 
making  them  of  iron  inlaid  with  gold 
in  the  Nunome  style.  But  from 
1887,  he  began  to  manufacture  the 
now  celebrated  Toge-dashi-zogan. 
(See  text.) 

Kajima.  Yeijiro.  Present  day.  A  metal- 
worker of  Tokio,  skilled  in  inlaying. 
A  cousin  of  the  much  more  cele- 
brated Kajima  Ippu.  Yeijiro's  father 
of  the  same  name  produced  some 
fine  specimens  of  inlaid  armour. 

Kajutsura.  1820.  A  skilled  expert  of 
Kyoto ;  teacher  of  Harutsura.  Cele- 
brated for  chiselling  insects. 

Kako.      Vide  Hirayoshi  (Kuwamura). 

Kakujo.  Goto.  1590.  Mitsunobu.  With 
Mitsusato  and  Mitsumasa  (which 
see),  he  makes  the  three  Mino-bori 
(Mino  carvers)  of  the  Shimo-Goto 
Family.  Mino. 

Kakuriyo.  Tsuji.  1780.  Heishiro. 
Called  himself  Shisuido.  An  expert 
of  note.  Omi. 

Kakutei.     Vide  Aritsune. 

Kambei.  Goto.  1670.  Mitsutoyo.  The 
Kami-Goto  Family.  Kyoto. 

Kambei.     Goto.     1690.      Vide  GenjS. 

Kampei.  Nishigaki.  1730.  A  carver  of 
Higo. 

Kanamaru.  So-no-shin.  An  unidenti- 
fied artist. 

Kanaya.  1600.  An  artist  of  Fushimi. 
Celebrated  for  his  carving  of  land- 
scapes, birds,  foliage  and  prairie- 
grasses.  His  work  is  compared  by 
Japanese  connoisseurs  to  a  moonlit 
waterscape  seen  through  an  opening 
in  a  forest. 

Kaneatsu.  Takao.  1640.  Kichizaye- 
mon.  A  pupil  of  Umemura  Suke- 
saburo  and  a  skilled  expert.  Kaga. 

Kanehide.     igth  cent.     Yedo. 

Kaneiye.  1500.  A  celebrated  guard- 
maker  whose  date  is  somewhat  un- 
certain. He  marked  his  work  Yam- 
ashiro-no-ju.  His  tempering  and 
chiselling  of  iron  were  counted  ex- 
traordinarily good,  and  in  subsequent 
generations  special  luck  was  sup- 
posed to  attend  the  possession  of 
his  guards,  so  that  they  commanded 
great  prices.  Japanese  connoisseurs 
consider  that  the  Kaneiye  family 
forged  guards  before  the  time  of  the 
above,  and  they  are  accustomed  to 
speak  of  the  older  work  as  "  Osho- 


dai  Kaneiye  "  (the  very  old  genera- 
tion of  Kaniryej.  Vide  Jubei  (Aoki). 

Kaneko.     Vide  Ujiiye. 

Kanemori.  1680.  An  expert  of  Yech- 
izen,  who  worked  skilfully  in  the 
Kinai  style. 

Kanemori.  ShCami.  1550.  An  expert 
of  Kaneda  in  Dewa. 

Kanenori.  Nomura.  1720.  Saburoji. 
Called  himself  Kanyeishi.  A  skilled 
expert.  Hikone.  (Omi.) 

Kanesada.  1600.  Supposed  to  have 
been  a  pupil  of  Aoki  Jubei. 

Kanetaki.  Yoshikawa.  1680.  Called 
also  Tamayoshi.  Worked  at  Hikone. 

Kanetomo.  Iwata.  1810.  Bennosuke. 
Art  name,  Toyosai.  Pupil  of  Kiyo- 
hisa  (Tanaka).  Aizu. 

Kaneuji.  Shoami.  1750.  A  Kyoto  ex- 
pert. 

Kaneyasu.  Masatoshi.  Metal  chiseller 
(Kinzokushi)  of  present  day.  A 
pupil  of  Toriusai  (q.  v.)  and  adopted 
son  of  Ito  Katsumi  (q.  v.) 

Kaneyori.  Amano.  1760.  Son  of  Sho- 
zui,  and  commonly  called  Kenzui. 
Art  names,  Kaigenshi,  Miseki,  and 
Seishin.  Used  also  the  marks  Otsu- 
riuken  and  Miboku.  ( Vide  Shozui.) 
A  celebrated  artist.  Yedo. 

Kaneyuki.  Hamano.  1670.  Called  him- 
self Kaiganshi,  and  afterwards  Mi- 
boku. A  son  of  the  celebrated 
Shozui.  Yedo. 

Kankyo.     Vide  Masayori  and  Masanobu. 

Kanshikan.      Vide  Terukazu. 

Kanshiro.  Nishigaki.  1750.  A  carver 
of  Higo. 

Kanyeishi.      Vide    Kanenori   (Nomura). 

Kanzayemon.  Nishigaki.  1770.  A 
carver  of  Higo. 

Kariuken.     Vide  Yoshinori. 

Kasetsuken.     Vide  Tomonao. 

Katahiro.  Nomura.  1760.  Bikwan. 
Yedo. 

Katatomo.  Nakano.  1830.  A  skilled 
forger  of  swords  and  chiseller  of 
sword-guards.  Especially  remark- 
able for  combining  various  metals. 
Yedo. 

Katsu.  1700.  A  female  expert  of  Yedo. 
Her  work  is  good,  but  nothing  defi- 
nite is  known  about  her. 

Katsuchika.  igthcent.  A  great  metal- 
worker of  Yedo,  and  chiseller  of 
netsuke. 

Katsuhira.     igth  cent.     Yedo. 

Katsuhisa.      Kuwamura.      1650.      Gen- 


34 


CH  ISELLERS 


zayemon.  Called  himself  Jokui. 
An  expert  of  great  repute.  Kaga. 

Katsuiye.  Miyochin.  1550.  A  great 
expert.  Kozuke. 

Katsukata.  Shoami.  1670.  Chiuzaye- 
mon.  Worked  at  Wakamatsu  in 
Aizu. 

Katsukuni.     1 8th  and  igth  cent.      Mito. 

Katsukuni.  Shinozaki.  1750.  Tokuro. 
A  skilled  •  expert ;  one  of  the  best 
of  the  Mito  artists.  (Vide  Yasu- 
hira.)  Mito. 

Katsumasa.  Miyochin.  1540.  A  great 
expert.  Kozuke. 

Katsumi.  Ito.  1860.  A  great  artist, 
still  living,  but,  now  better  known  for 
miscellaneous  work  than  for  sword 
Turniture. 

Katsumori.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Katsunari.  Shoami.  1620.  Worked 
at  Wakamatsu  in  Aizu. 

Katsusaburo.  Shoami.  1700.  There 
were  two  experts  of  this  name,  father 
and  son,  the  latter  being  also  called 
Gorobei.  They  worked  at  the  close 
of  the  1 7th  and  the  beginning  of  the 
1 8th  century,  and  were  skilled  silver- 
smiths. Tsuyama  (in  Mimasaka). 

Katsushird.  i8th  and  iQth  cent.  A 
skilled  metal-worker  of  Yedo.  Art 
name,  Giyoku-riu-ken. 

Katsutada.  Fujita.  1700.  An  artist 
of  Osaka,  notably  skilled  in  carving 
masks  and  cuttle-fish. 

Katsutane.  Kanasugi.  igth  cent.  Art 
name,  Shokatei.  Yedo. 

Katsuyoshi.  iQth  cent.  Art  name,  Ra- 
kurakusai.  Yedo. 

Kawada.      Family  name.      Vide   Ichizo. 

Kawaji.  Tomomichi.  i8th  and  igth 
cent.  Choshiu. 

Kawasaki.  Tashiro.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  metal-chiseller  of  Tokyo; 
Pupil  of  Natsuo.  Remarkably  clever 
in  working  out  naturalistic  designs, 
as  carp,  at  (river  trout),  etc.,  for 
pouch-clasps. 

Kazuharu.  Ishiguro.  igth  cent.  Met- 
al-worker of  Yedo. 

Kazunori.     Omori.     igth  cent.     Yedo. 

Kazutani.  Kanasugi.  igth  cent.  Art 
name,  Kenkosai.  Yedo. 

Kazutomo.  Omori.  1810.  Yetsusuke. 
Called  himself  Kenkosai.  A  skilled 
expert.  Yedo. 

Kazutoshi.     Kishiba.     igthcent.    Yedo. 

Kazutsune.     Omori.      igth    cent.     Met- 


al-worker of  Yedo.  Son  of  Kazu- 
tomo ;  and  same  art  name  as  his 
father. 

Kazuyuki.  Kumagaye.  1840.  Goro.  A 
pupil  of  the  celebrated  Goto  Ichijo, 
and  a  skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Keiho.      Vide  Masahiro. 

Keijo.  The  fourth  representative  of  the 
Goto  family.  Vide  Mitsumori. 

Keirinsai.     Vide  Yasuhisa. 

Keisai.     Vide  Masatsune. 

Keito.      Vide  Masayori. 

Kenjo.  Goto.  1610.  Seventh  of  the 
great  Goto  Masters.  Kyoto. 

Kenkosai.  Vide  Kazutomo,  Kazutani, 
and  Kazutsune. 

Kensui.     Vide  Masanao. 

Kenzui.      Vide  Kaneyori   and   Hisayori. 

Kichibei.  Uyemura.  1720.  Commonly 
called  Masuya  Kichibei.  A  pupil  of 
Munemine  (Soho),  Kyoto. 

Kichibei.  1730.  One  of  the  pupils  of  the 
Akao  family. 

Kichiguro.  Tamagawa.  1820.  Worked 
in  Mito. 

Kichijuro.  Tamagawa.  1780.  A  pupil 
of  Yoshihisa  of  Mito.  and  a  skilled 
expert,  though  his  works  are  little 
known. 

Kigu.  1750.  Family,  etc.,  unknown, 
and  date  uncertain.  The  name  is 
often  found  on  good  specimens  hav- 
ing carp,  craw-fish,  etc.,  in  relief  on 
a  polished  ground. 

Kihei.  Inouye.  1750.  A  pupil  of  In- 
ouye  Shigeyasu.  Kyoto. 

Kihei.     Goto.      Vide  Zenjo. 

Kijusai.      Vide  Terumitsu  (Omori). 

Kikkodo.      Vide  Naoyasu. 

Kiko.      Vide  Masanobu. 

Kikuchi.  Family  name  ;  vide  Tsunekat- 
su,  Tsunemitsu,  etc. 

Kikuda.  Mitsugiyoku.  Present  day.  A 
highly  skilled  metal-chiseller  of  To- 
kyo ;  employed  by  the'  Imperial 
Court.  He  carved  a  celebrated  sil- 
ver hand-warmer  (Shuro)  for  the 
Emperor,  decorated  with  designs  of 
wisteria. 

Kikugawa.  The  name  of  a  great  family 
of  metal-chisellers.  The  first  began 
to  work  in  the  second  half  of  the 
1 8th  century;  the  fourth  is  now  work- 
ing in  Tokyo.  The  second  (Tomoy- 
oshi),  who  flourished  up  to  about 
1840,  was  specially  celebrated.  He 
used  the  mark,  Ichiriusai  Kikugawa. 
In  addition  to  beautiful  specimens  of 


35 


CHISELLERS 


sword-furniture,  kanamono,  etc.,  he 
carved  netsuke  in  the  round  from 
shakudo  or  shibuichi. 

Kikuju-sai.      Vide  Masanobu  (Nara). 

Kikuoka.  Family  name.  Vide  Mitsu- 
yuki. 

Kinai.  Ishikawa.  1640.  An  expert  of 
Ichizen  who  belonged  originally  to 
the  Miyochin  family.  He  was  cele- 
brated for  chiselling  iron  guards  with 
designs  &  jour,  his  favorite  designs 
being  dragons  and  phoenixes.  His 
works  are  marked  Vechizen  no  Kuni 
Kinai.  He  died  in  1 680. 

Kinai.  Takahashi.  1660.  The  second 
of  the  same  name  and  the  greatest 
of  the  family.  His  pierced  decora- 
tion on  guards  is  admirably  delicate 
and  fine,  and  he  imparted  to  the  iron 
a  soft,  brown  patina  of  great  beauty. 
His  works  were  known  as  Kenjo  Kin- 
ai, or  "  Presentation  Kinai ;  "  that  is 
to  say,  worthy  to  be  presented  to  the 
Sovereign.  He  prefixed  to  his  name 
the  words,  Yechizen  no  Kuni.  He 
died  in  1696. 

Kinai.  Much  of  the  work  produced  in 
Yechizen  after  the  time  of  the  two 
great  Kinai  masters  is  spoken  of  as 
"  Kinai,"  meaning  that  it  is  in  the 
Kinai  style.  Vide  Chiusaku,  Yoshi- 
tsugu,  and  Kanemori.  The  succes- 
sive representatives  of  the  Takahashi 
family  produced  good  work  in  the 
same  style. 

Kingenshi.      Vide  Sadayoshi. 

Kingyokudo.     Vide  Hirosada. 

Kinkado.      Vide  Mitsutaki. 

Kinriuzan.  Fumoto.  Vide  Shigemitsu 
(Omori). 

Kinshichi.  Tsuchiya.  1650.  A  pupil 
of  Katsuhisa  (Kawamura).  Kaga. 

Kiriusai.     Vide  Muneyuki ;  also  Somin. 

Kiriusei.      Vide  Soyoyuki. 

Kiso-H6gen.      Vide  Koriusai. 

Kiujo.  Goto.  1630.  Mitsutada.  Ky- 
oto. 

Kiukiuken.     Vide  Tamagawa  Yoshihisa. 

Kiusuke.  Chiyo.  1680.  There  were 
three  experts  of  this  name,  father, 
son,  and  grandson.  They  worked 
chiefly  in  silver.  Tsuyama  (in  Mi- 
masaka) . 

Kiusuke.  Chiyo.  1680.  A  silversmith 
of  Tsuyama.  His  son  and  grandson 
of  the  same  name  succeeded  him. 

Kiuzayemon.  Chiyo.  1740.  Called  al- 
so Kansei.  An  expert  of  Tsuyama. 


Kiuzo.      Vide  Mariyuki. 

Kiuzui.      Vide  Hisayori. 

Kiyohisa.  Tanaka.  1860.  Bunjiro ; 
commonly  called  Fujiwara  Bunjiro. 
An  expert  chiseller,  celebrated  for 
his  skill  in  reproducing  the  works  of 
the  old  masters.  Yedo. 

Kiyokaze.  Fujii.  1700.  Gembei.  A 
pupil  of  the  great  Kaneko  Yukinaka. 
Hagi. 

Kiyonori.  Goto.  1700.  Rihei.  Cele- 
brated for  making  Kanto-tmbo  ;  that 
is  to  say,  guards  ornamented  with 
Chinese  figures  and  landscapes. 
Yedo. 

Kiyosada.  Kusakari.  1790.  Hachisa- 
buro.  Generally  known  as  Kusa- 
kari Hachisaburo.  Regarded  as  the 
greatest  inlayer  of  Sendai.  Cele- 
brated for  dragons  (amaryo),  land- 
scapes, flowers,  especially  convol- 
vulus, etc.  Sendai. 

Kiyosai.      Vide  Nagatake. 

Kiyoshige.  Tanaka.  1830.  Mino- 
matsu.  Son  of  Kiyohisa  and  a 
skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Kiyoshige.  Ito  Katsumi  (Vide).  While 
still  a  pupil  of  Toriusai,  was  granted 
the  art  rank  of  Hokkyo,  and  used 
the  mark  Seiu  Hokkyo  Kiyoshige. 

Kiyotaku.  Inouye.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Kiyotoshi.  Ito.  1840.  A  celebrated 
expert  of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Juzo. 
Had  rank  of  Hogen. 

Kiyotsugu.  Yoshioka.  1660.  Had  the 
title  of  Inaba-no-suke.  Founded  the 
Sendai  branch  of  the  Yoshioka 
family. 

Kiyoyasu.  Ito.  1750.  Celebrated  for 
inlaying  in  the  Sumi-ye  (sepia  paint- 
ing) style.  Yedo. 

Kiyoyori.  Kusakari.  1830.  Pupil  of 
Teramitsu  (Omori).  Yedo  and 
Sendai. 

Kiyoyoshi.  Goto.  1690.  (Called  also 
Seirei.)  Common  name,  Shichibei. 
Kaga. 

Kiyoyoshi.  Goto.  1630.  A  pupil  of 
Goto  Seijo.  Remarkably  skilled  in 
inlaying  iron  with  gold,  and  in  copy- 
ing old  masterpieces.  Yedo. 

Kiyoyoshi.  Shiwamura.  1710.  Cele- 
brated as  a  maker  of  nanako. 
Yedo. 

Kizayemon.  1700.  Jakushi.  A  cele- 
brated artist  of  Nagasaki.  Like 
many  of  the  Nagasaki  experts,  he 


CHISELLERS 


affected  figures  taken  from  Chinese 
pictures  (called  "  Canton  style  "  or 
Kwanto-gata),  but  he  also  chiselled 
landscapes  and  seascapes  with  ad- 
mirable effects  of  distance,  dragons 
(the  amaryo  type),  bamboos  tossed 
by  the  wind,  etc.,  with  the  greatest 
skill.  He  used  his  chisel  so  deftly 
that  its  trace  resembles  the  brush 
strokes  of  a  painter.  His  work  has 
been  largely  imitated,  and  so  well 
recognized  is  his  tender,  delicate,  yet 
strong  style,  that  the  term  "  Jakushi" 
has  come  to  be  commonly  applied 
to  that  class  of  carving.  Na- 
gasaki. 

Koami.  Kikuchi.  1650.  Yagoro.  A 
pupil  of  Goto  Renjo,  and  an  artist 
of  the  highest  order.  He  combined 
the  force  and  directness  of  the  Goto 
style  with  the  elaborateness  of  the 
Mito.  Worked  in  Mito. 

Kogitsune.  1670.  A  celebrated  expert 
of  Yechizen,  famous  for  chiselling 
dragons. 

Kogyosai.  igth  cent.  Art  name  also 
Gessan.  Yedo. 

Koji.  Yanagawa.  1860.  A  great  ex- 
pert of  Kanazawa,  pupil  of  Yana- 
gawa Harushige.  He  died  in  1877. 
Was  commonly  called  Kanazawa 
Somin. 

Kojo.  Goto.  1550.  Fourth  of  the 
great  Goto  masters.  Kyoto. 

Kokusui.  Wakabayashi.  1720.  Roku- 
bei.  Toyama. 

Komai.     Matsuhiro.     igth  cent.     Yedo. 

Komai.  Otajiro.  Present  day.  A  metal- 
worker of  Kyoto  highly  skilled  in 
inlaying  iron  with  gold  by  the  Nu- 
nome  process. 

Komai.  Seibei.  igth  cent.  (d.  1861.) 
A  metal-  worker  of  Higo,  skilled  in 
inlaying  iron  and  sword  furniture 
with  gold. 

Konju.  Iwamoto.  1800.  Kingoro. 
Yedo. 

Konkwan.  Iwamoto.  1770.  Kisaburo. 
At  first  called  Asai.  A  pupil  of 
Riyokwan,  and  an  expert  of  the  high- 
est merit.  Celebrated  for  carving  fish 
of  various  kinds,  especially  crusta- 
ceans, and  for  the  beauty  of  his 
compositions.  Used  the  marks 
Hakuhotei,  ShunshSdo,  and  Nampo, 
as  well  as  his  own  name.  Died, 
1 80 1.  Yedo. 

Konuki.      Vide  Masaharu. 


Koreo.  Ishiguro.  1840.  A  pupil  of 
Koretsune.  Called  himself  Ho- 
kuunsai.  A  skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Koreshige.  Ishiguro.  1840.  Ichiyo. 
A  pupil  of  Koretsune.  Yedo. 

Koretsune.  Ishiguro.  1840.  Shukichi. 
Called  himself  Togakushi,  Ritsumei, 
Shinryo,  Hogiyokusai,  Gishinken, 
Kounsai,  and  Ichiyeian.  Second 
son  of  Masatsune  (Ishiguro),  the 
first,  and  an  artist  of  superb  skill. 
Yedo. 

Koreyoshi.  Ishiguro.  1850.  Kwanjiro. 
Called  himself  Jikakushi  and  Kwan- 
sai.  An  expert  of  the  highest  skill. 
Yedo. 

Koriusai.  iQth  cent.  (d.  1879).  A  metal- 
chiseller  of  Owari.  Koriusai  was 
his  art  name,  his  real  name  being 
Toyokawa  Mitsunaga. 

Koriusha.      Vide  Masahiro. 

Koriyama.  Mitsunaka.  igth  cent.  A 
metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Kosen.  Tanikawa.  1820.  Chiuzaye- 
mon.  Art  name,  Kounsai.  Yedo. 

Kosetsuken.      Vide  Tomonao. 

Koten.  Supposed  to  have  been  a  pupil 
of  Aoki  Jubei  (q.  v.).  A  skilled 
expert  of  Higo.  He  worked  in  the 
style  of  Kaneiye. 

Kounsai.      Vide  Kosen. 

Kounsai.      Vide  Koretsune. 

Kozui.      Vide  Mitsuyori. 

Kuhei.  Inouye.  1750.  Bunjiro.  A 
pupil  of  Inouye  Higeyasu.  Com- 
monly known  as  Sammonji-ya. 

Kunichika.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Kuniharu.  Tetsuya  Dembei.  Vide 
Harukuni. 

Kunihiro.     1670.     Kihei.     Kaga. 

Kunihiro.     1690.     Yozayemon.     Kaga. 

Kunihisa.  1640.  Jiuzayemon.  A  son 
of  Kuninaga  of  Kaga. 

Kunihisa.  1660.  Jiuzayemon.  A 
grandson  of  Kuninaga  of  Kaga. 

Kunihisa.     1700.      Yozayemon.     Kaga. 

Kunimasa.     1710.    Yozayemon.    Kaga. 

Kuninaga.  1620.  Jirosaku.  A  pupil 
of  Goto  Kakujo.  He  worked  origi- 
nally in  Kyoto  and  moved  to  Kaga 
in  1620.  His  finest  work  was  in 
inlaying.  He  is  counted  the  earli- 
est maker  of  inlaid  sword-mounts  in 
Kaga.  His  carving  is  known  as 
Jiro-saku'bori. 

Kuninaga.     1740.     Yozayemon.     Kaga. 

Kuninaga.     Uyemura.     1680.    A  skilled 


37 


CHISELLERS 


artist  of  Kyoto,  generally  known  as 
Masuya  Kuhei. 

Kunishige.  Miyochin.  1570.  A  great 
expert.  Kozuke. 

Kunitada.     1760.    Gonzayemon.    Kaga. 

Kunitomo.  Kobayashi.  1700.  Date 
uncertain.  A  pupil  of  the  Shoami 
experts  in  Kyoto. 

Kuniyasu.  Yozayemon.  A  pupil  of 
Kuninaga  Jirosaku.  Kaga. 

Kurokawa.  Eisho.  Present  time.  A 
Kinzoku-shi  (metal-chiseller),  cele- 
brated for  his  skill  in  joining  differ- 
ent metals  to  form  a  decorative 
design,  and  also  for  the  Kiri-hame 
process  (vide  text),  by  means  of 
which  the  artist  produces  plaques 
showing  exactly  the  same  decoration 
on  face  and  back. 

Kuwamura.  Family  name.  Vide  Hiro- 
yoshi,  etc. 

Kuwamura.  Yensuke.  igth  cent.  (d. 
1877.)  A  skilled  metal-chiseller  of 
Kanazawa. 

Kwaizantei.  Vide  Motomochi  (Hi- 
yama). 

Kwakujusai.      Vide  Masahiro. 

Kwanjo.  Goto.  1640.  Mitsunaga. 
Kyoto. 

Kwanjo.  Iwamoto.  1790.  Shosuke 
or  Shoshichi.  Yedo. 

Kwanju.  Hamada.  1720.  Toraizo. 
Art  name,  Gyokuriusai.  A  pupil  of 
Joi,  and  a  skilled  expert.  Shinshu. 

Kwanri.  Iwamoto.  1780.  Kijiro. 
Called  also  Hirotoshi.  Adopted 
son  of  Iwamoto  Konkwan.  Yedo. 
Art  name,  Jounsai. 

Kwansai.     Vide  Koreyoshi. 

Kwanzui.      Vide  Hiroyori. 

Kworin.  Otsuki.  1400.  There  is  some 
uncertainty  as  to  the  date  of  this 
expert  ;  but  most  authorities  agree 
in  placing  him  at  the  end  of  the 
fourteenth  century.  His  work  is 
excellent,  though  severe  in  style. 
Some  of  his  pieces  are  marked 
"  Nagoya  no  riyoshuku  ni  Kore 
wo  tsukuru "  (made  in  an  inn  in 
Nagoya). 

Kwoyetsu.  Fujimoto.  1660.  Denjuro. 
A  pupil  of  Goto  Yetsujo.  A  skilled 
expert.  Kaga. 

Masaaki.  Noda.  1820.  Risuke.  A 
skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Masachika.  Tsuji.  1660.  Genyemon. 
This  artist  came  to  Yedo  in  the  year 
1659,  and  four  years  afterwards  was 


taken  under  the  patronage  of  the 
Prince  of  Mito.  He  and  his  pupils 
and  descendants  worked  thenceforth 
in  Yedo.  They  were  the  younger 
branch  of  the  Tsuji  of  Omi  (vide 
Mitsumasa).  Masachika  did  not 
mark  his  pieces,  but  the  specimens 
attributed  to  him  are  very  fine.  .He 
had  no  less  than  seven  pupils,  all  of 
whom  acquired  some  reputation ; 
namely,  Masanori,  Masayuki,  Masa- 
toshi,  Masamori,  Masaoki,  Masatomo, 
and  Masataka. 

Masachika.  Tsuji.  1780.  Gengoro. 
Grandson  of  the  first  Tsuji  Masa- 
chika, used  the  mark  Toun-sai. 
Yedo. 

Masachika.  Nara.  1760.  Seiroku.  He 
became  a  pupil  of  Joi  and  called 
himself  Jowa.  During  two  or  three 
years  after  the  death  of  his  father, 
Masanaga,  he  used  the  latter's  name 
on  his  works.  He  is  not  the  peer  of 
Masanaga,  but  nevertheless  stands 
high. 

Masachika.  Ishiguro.  1840.  Toyojiro. 
Yedo. 

Masachika.  Hirata.  1750.  Ichizaye- 
mon.  A  pupil  of  Tsu  Jimpo. 
Worked  in  Awa  Province. 

Masachika.  Tsuchiya.  1840.  Art  name, 
Sekiyenshi.  An  expert  of  fair  skill. 
Yedo. 

Masachika.  Tsuchiya.  igth  cent. 
Metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Masachika.  Ito.  1760.  Matakichi.  A 
Yedo  expert,  who  carved  in  the 
Masatsune  style. 

Masafusa.  Shimada.  1720.  Shojiro. 
Toyama. 

Masafusa.  Shimada.  1660.  Ken-ni 
Shojiro.  A  pupil  of  Morisada 
(Katsugi).  A  skilled  expert.  Toy- 
ama (Yetchiu). 

Masafusa.     Fujiki.     1670. 

Masafusa.  Shoami.  1570.  An  expert 
of  Kameda  (in  Dewa). 

Masafusa.     Vide  Masayuki  (Tsuji). 

Masaharu.  Nomura.  1740.  Kasuya 
Genshiro.  Yedo. 

Masaharu.  1750.  Marked  his  pieces, 
Rinfudo.  Family  unknown  and 
date  uncertain.  Yedo. 

Masaharu.  Tamagawa.  1800.  Yuzo. 
Mito. 

Masaharu.  Tamagawa.  1840.  Jugoro. 
Called  himself  Konuki.  A  skilled 
expert.  Yedo. 


CHI  SELLERS 


Masahide.  Ishiguro.  1840.  .Called 
Shogutei.  Yedo. 

Masahide.  Nomura.  1 8th  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Hikone. 

Masahide.  Nomura.  1780.  Hidegoro. 
Yedo. 

Masahide.  Nomura.  1770.  Sadashiro. 
Pupil  of  Masatsugu  (Nomura). 
Yedo. 

Masahide.  Nomura,  igthcent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Masahira.  1730.  Kanshichi,  successor 
of  Shigetsugu  Kihachiro.  Kaga. 

Masahiro.  Ichiguro.  1820.  Matakichi. 
Called  himself  Gantoshi,  Keiho, 
Kwakujusai,  and  KSriusha.  A  grand 
artist.  Yedo. 

Masahiro.  Ito.  1850.  An  expert  of 
Yedo. 

Masahisa.  Tamagawa.  1790.  Bumpei. 
Mito. 

Masakata.  Ito.  1730.  Genjiro.  Son 
of  Masatsune  (Ito),  and  scarcely 
inferior  to  his  father  as  an  expert  in 
carving  Hjour.  Yedo  and  Bushiu. 

Masakatsu.  Minagawa.  1840.  Gen- 
jiro. Yedo. 

Masakatsu.  Okada.  1740.  Zenzaye- 
mon.  Hagi. 

Masakazu.  Okamoto.  1730.  Kohei. 
Hagi. 

Masakazu.  Tsuji.  1810.  Genzo. 
Yedo. 

Masakiyo.  Ishiguro.  1830.  Wasaburo. 
Called  himself  Jikiyopusai.  A  skilled 
expert  of  Yedo. 

Masakiyo.  Shoami.  1690.  Worked 
at  Wakamatsu  in  Aizu. 

Masakuni.  Nomura.  1770.  Pupil  of 
Masatsugu  (Nomura).  Yedo. 

Masamichi.  Nomura.  1730.  Chotaku. 
Carver  to  the  feudal  chief  of  A\va. 
Tokushima 

Masamitsu.  Nomura.  1760.  Mago- 
shichi.  A  pupil  of  Masatsugu.  A 
celebrated  expert.  Yedo. 

Masamitsu.     Vide  Yeijo. 

Masamitsu.  Kanedo.  1630.  Kichi-no- 
jo.  A  celebrated  Shitabori-shi,  or 
preliminary  chiseller  who  blocked 
out  designs  for  the  finishing  expert. 
Kanazawa  (Yedo). 

Masamori.  Hosono.  1600.  Sozaye- 
mon.  or  Yoshimasa.  An  expert  of 
Kyoto,  celebrated  for  having  been 
the  first  to  develop  the  capabilities 
of  Kebori-zogan,  or  hair-line  inlaying. 
His  chiselling  in  relief  is  also  very 


fine,  and,  on  the  whole,  he  belongs 
to  the  highest  rank  of  artists. 

Masanaga.  Ito.  1700.  Jingozayemon. 
Founder  of  the  Ito  family,  which 
thenceforth  enjoyed  the  distinction 
of  making  sword-guards  for  the 
Shoguns. 

Masanaga.  Tamagawa.  1780.  Bumpei. 
Lived  first  in  Mito  (Hitachi)  and 
afterwards  in  Yedo.  A  great  expert, 
not  inferior  to  his  father  Yoshinaga. 

Masanaga.  Ishiguro.  1840.  Yeisuke. 
Yedo. 

Masanaga.  Nara.  1730.  Shichiroza- 
yemon.  A  pupil  of  Toshinaga 
(Chikan).  A  celebrated  expert. 
Yedo. 

Masanaga.  Nara.  1750.  Pupil  of 
Toshihisa.  Used  the  mark  Masa- 
haru  at  first  and  afterwards  that  of 
Seiroku.  An  expert  of  the  highest 
repute.  His  autumn  landscapes,  in 
which  a  mantis  and  eularia  (suzuki) 
occupy  the  foreground,  are  cele- 
brated for  strength  and  delicacy. 

Masanaga.  Nara.  1740.  Son  of  Mas- 
anaga, the  first  of  the  Nara  family, 
but  not  so  skilled  as  his  father. 

Masanaka.  Nara.  1750.  Pupil  of 
Masachika.  (Nara.)  Yedo. 

Masanaka.  Kuwabara.  1750.  Toku- 
zayemon.  A  pupil  of  Nara  Masa- 
•  naga.  Yedo. 

Masanaka.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Hakushusai. 

Masanao.  Nomura.  iSth  and  igth 
cent.  Metal-worker  of  Hikone. 

Masanao.  Shimada.  1740.  Kensui 
Shodayu.  A  great  expert.  Toyama 
(Yetchiu). 

Masanao.  Nomura.  1720.  Originally 
Wakabayashi  Masagoro.  A  pupil 
of  Masamitsu  (Nomura).  Yedo. 

Masanari.  Ito.  1820.  An  expert  of 
Yedo. 

Masanobu.  Ito.  1680.  Commonly 
called  Tsuba-ya  Tasuke,  or  "  Tas- 
uke,  the  guard  maker."  A  skilled 
expert  of  Kyoto.  Not  a  member  of 
the  Ito  family  proper. 

Masanobu.  Goto.  1630.  Adopted  by 
the  painter  Tanyu,  and  raised  to  the 
rank  of  Hokkyo  in  recognition  of 
his  excellence.  Signed  some  of  his 
work  T5un.  Kyoto. 

Masanobu.  1750.  Kambei.  Son  of 
Masahira  Kanshichi.  Kaga. 

Masanobu.    Nara.     1750.    Zenji.    Called 


39 


CHISELLERS 


himself  Kikuju-sai,  and  Kik5.  His 
first  name  was  Masatsugu,  then 
Masayuki,  and  finally  Masanobu. 
A  great  expert,  celebrated  for  his 
carvings  of  the  Amariyo  (a  kind  of 
dragon).  Lived  first  in  Yedo  and 
afterwards  in  Osaka. 

Masanobu.  Shoami.  1620.  Celebrated 
for  having  produced  the  eight  views 
of  Omi  Lake  on  iron  guards  inlaid 
with  gold.  Kyoto. 

Masanobu.  Hamano.  1790.  Tarobei. 
A  skilled  expert.  Used  four  of  Sho- 
zui's  art  names :  Otsuriuken,  Mibobu, 
Rifudo,  and  Kankyo. 

Masanori.  Ito.  1830.  An  expert  of 
Yedo. 

Masanori.  ShSami.  1400.  Ichirobei. 
Nothing  certain  is  known  of  this 
artist,  even  his  date  being  more  or 
less  speculative.  He  lived  in  Kyoto, 
and  a  large  number  of  experts  in 
various  provinces  claim  him  as  their 
ancestor.  His  immediate  descend- 
ants do  not  appear  to  have  con- 
tinued the  work ;  at  all  events,  no 
record  of  them  is  extant.  The 
family  resumes  its  place  on  the  list 
of  sword-mount  experts  in  1480,  the 
time  of  Takatsune.  ( Vide.) 

Masanori.  Murakumi.  1640.  Tadu- 
shichi.  Younger  brother  of  the 
celebrated  Jochiku,  and  a  skilled 
carver  and  inlayer.  Yedo. 

Masanori.  Hashibe.  1630.  A  pupil  of 
Goto  Teijo.  Kyoto. 

Masanori.  Nomura.  1700.  Shoye- 
mon.  Called  also  Itoku.  A  highly 
skilled  artist.  Yedo. 

Masanori.  Okada.  1720.  Hikozaye- 
mon.  Nagato. 

Masanori.  Tsuji.  1680.  Katsunosuke. 
Pupil  of  Tsuji  Masachika  (the  first). 
Yedo. 

Masanori.  Tsuji.  1680.  Pupil  of  Tsuji 
Masachika  (the  first).  Called  Jusa- 
buro.  Yedo. 

Masanori.  Nara.  1730.  Pupil  of  the 
first  Masanaga.  He  marked  his 
works  Masatsugu  or  Masayuki,  as 
well  as  Masanori.  Yedo. 

Masaoki.  Ishiguro.  1810.  Sadakichi. 
Yedo. 

Masaoki.  Tsuji.  1680.  Hamada  Kiichi. 
Pupil  of  Tsuji  Masachika  (the  first). 
Yedo. 

Masasada.  Takita.  1810.  Seisuke. 
Mito. 


Masasada.  Hamano.  1740.  Called 
also  Masakazu.  Personal  name,  Ma- 
sazane.  A  pupil  of  Shozui. 

Masashige.  Shoami.  1650.  A  Kyoto 
expert,  skilled  in  inlaying  brass  with 
silver,  shakudo,  etc. 

Masashige.  Nara.  1700.  Pupil  of 
Masachika  (Nara).  Yedo. 

Masasuke.  Tsuji.  1760.  Mohachi. 
Yedo. 

Masatada.  Nomura.  1730.  ShSyemon. 
Yedo. 

Masataka.  Okamoto.  1690.  Saye- 
mon.  Called  also  Kozen.  A  skilled 
artist.  Hagi. 

Masataka.  Tsuji.  1680.  Gengoro. 
Pupil  of  Tsuji  Masachika  (the  first). 
Yedo. 

Masataka.  Tsuji.  1790.  Genyemon. 
Yedo. 

Masatani.  Ito.  1800.  Matazk.  An 
artist  of  Yedo. 

Masatatsu.  Wada.  1850.  Art  name, 
Gekendo.  A  highly  skilled  artist 
of  Kyoto. 

Masatatsu.  Present  day.  A  skilled 
metal-chiseller  of  Osaka. 

Masatoki.  Nomura.  1660.  Kozaye- 
mon.  The  first  of  the  Nomura 
family  to  attain  distinction.  Kyoto 
and  Yedo. 

Masatoki.  Yamazaki.  1820.  Ishi- 
matsu.  Art  name,  Seiseisai.  Worked 
at  Sukura  in  Shimosa. 

Masatorhi.  Okada.  1760.  Hikobei. 
Hagi. 

Masatomo.  Tsuji.  1680.  Yamada 
Masahachi.  Pupil  of  Tsuji  Ma- 
sachika (the  first).  Yedo. 

Masatomo.    Tsuji.    1830.    Genzo.  Yedo. 

Masatomo.  Umetada.  1660.  Hikobei. 
Hagi. 

Masatomo.  Ito.  1700.  Yaiichi.  Second 
son  of  Masanaga  (Ito)  Bushiu. 

Masatomo.  Okada.  iSthcent.  Metal- 
worker of  Choshiu. 

Masatoshi.  Tsuji.  1680.  Seijiro.  Pupil 
of  Tsuj  i  Masachika  (the  first ).  Yedo. 

Masatoshi.  Ishiguro.  1810.  Yasusuki. 
Yedo. 

Masatoshi.  Ito.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Masatoyo.  Wada.  i8th  and  igth  cent. 
Metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Masatoyo.  Nomura.  1770.  Pupil  of 
Masamitsu  (Nomura).  Yedo. 

Masatsugu.  Shoami.  1720.  Date  un- 
certain. Kyoto. 


40 


CHISELLERS 


Masatsugu.  Umetada.  1700.  A  Kyoto 
expert,  famous  for  inlaying  shakudo 
with  gold.  He  always  marked  his 
work  "  Yamashiro." 

Masatsugu.  Nomura.  1760.  Mago- 
shichi.  His  original  family  name 
was  Nakamura.  A  great  expert. 
Yedo. 

Masatsugu.      Vide  Kenjo. 

Masatsune.  Nomura.  1800.  Masagoro. 
A  nanako  expert.  Yedo. 

Masatsune.  Ishiguro.  1780.  Shusuke. 
Called  himself  Kimiyo,  Togakushi 
and  Jikokusai.  He  was  also  known 
as  Koretsune.  One  of  the  greatest 
artists  of  modern  times.  Born  1759, 
died  1828.  Celebrated  for  his  bronze 
carvings  as  well  as  for  his  sword- 
mounts.  Yedo. 

Masatsune.  Ishiguro.  1800.  Tamino- 
suke.  Son  of  Togakushi,  and  nearly 
as  great  an  artist  as  his  father.  Yedo. 
Art  name,  Keisai. 

Masatsune.  Ito.  1710.  Jinyemon,  or 
Jinzaburo.  A  celebrated  Yedo  ex- 
pert, guard-maker  to  the  Shoguns' 
Court.  His  decoration  cl  jour  is 
marvellously  delicate,  not  inferior 
to  that  of  the  best  Kinai  work. 

Masatsune.  Igarashi.  1680.  A  skilled 
expert  of  Higo ;  supposed  to  have 
been  the  ninth  in  descent  from  Ka- 
neiye.  His  art  name  was  Tetsu- 
baku. 

Masatsune.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Seisai. 

Masaya.  Nomura.  1700.  Shoyemon. 
Called  also  Tomoyoshi  or  Yuki.  A 
great  expert,  celebrated  for  his  com- 
bination of  metals  forming  the  rare 
and  beautiful  mokume  (wood-grain) 
grounds.  He  entered  the  service  of 
the  feudal  chief  of  Awa  and  settled 
in  Tokushima. 

Masayasu.  Ikagawa.  1800.  Genshi- 
chi.  He  called  himself  YoshSdo. 
Celebrated  for  chiselling  ornamental 
designs  on  the  blades  of  swords. 
Mino. 

Masayasu.  Hirata.  1720.  Yahachiro. 
A  maker  of  iron  guards  inlaid  with 
gold.  Awa  Province. 

Masayori.  Hamano.  1740.  Tarobei. 
His  name  is  generally  pronounced 
Shozui.  A  pupil  of  the  celebrated 
Nara  Toshihisa,  whose  fame  he 
rivals.  He  did  not  create  a  style  of 
his  own,  but  his  work  is  strong, 


delicate,  and  full  of  artistic  beauty. 
He  called  himself,  Otsuruiken,  Mi- 
boku,  Kankyo,  RifudS  Shijun,  Yuko- 
tei,  Shuhosai,  Hankeishi,  Isshunan, 
Gyokkeisha,  and  Keito.  Worked  in 
Yedo  and  died  in  1769. 

Masayori.      Vide  Hiyobu  Hogen. 

Masayoshi.  Nomura.  1710.  Kahiro. 
Called  also  Suihaku.  Yedo. 

Masayoshi.  Nomura.  1790.  KotojL 
Called  also  Ichiunsai.  A  great  ex- 
pert. Yedo. 

Masayoshi.  1820.  Isuke.  A  Samurai 
who  became  a  pupil  of  Tomomasa 
Daishido.  Yedo. 

Masayoshi.  Tsuchiya.  1770.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Masayoshi.  Ishiguro.  1830.  Shozo. 
Called  himself  Jikosai.  A  pupil  of 
Jimiya,  and  a  skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Masayoshi.  Nara.  1750.  Called  com- 
monly Shozui  Bozu  (the  old  man 
Shozui).  A  pupil  of  Masayori  (Sho- 
zui), celebrated  for  imitating  old 
works.  Yedo. 

Masayoshi.  Ito.  1750.  Jinyemon  or 
Matakichiro.  An  expert  of  Yedo, 
grandson  of  Masatsune  (Ito). 

Masayoshi.  Nomura,  igthcent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Masayuki.  Nomura.  1710.  Shojiro. 
Called  also  Riyoyen.  Yedo. 

Masayuki  (sometimes  called  Masafusa). 
Tsuji.  1680.  ShSjiro.  Pupil  of 
Tsuji  Masachika  (the  first).  Yedo. 
He  founded  a  branch  family,  that  of 
Fujiki,  and  took  the  name  of  Fujiki- 
kohachi.  Afterwards  he  called  him- 
self Ryo-yei. 

Masuya.     Kuhei.      Vide  Kuninaga. 

Masuya.     Kichibei.      Vide  Kichibei. 

Masuya.     Yohei.      Vide  Yohei. 

Masuya.     Uhei.     Vide  Jokwo. 

Masuya.       )  Vide  J6chiku 

Bunyemon.  ) 

Masuya  Kuyemon  (or  Kihei).  Vide 
Munemine. 

Matabei.  Muneta.  1540.  There  were 
three  of  this  name  in  the  family. 
The  second  (1560)  is  celebrated  as 
the  first  maker  of  Go-no-me  nanako. 
The  third  used  the  mark  D5i.  Vide 
also,  Norinao  and  Naomichi.  Kyoto. 

Matashichi.  Muneta.  1 560.  Vide  also, 
Naoshige.  Kyoto. 

Matashichi.  Sh5ami.  1700.  The  date 
is  uncertain.  An  expert  of  Chikuzen. 

Matazayemon.     Muneta.     1520.    There 


CHISELLERS 


were  three  of  this  name.  The  second 
Matazayemon  (1560),  and  the  third 
(1600).  The  last  sometimes  used 
the  mark  Dosei.  Kyoto. 

Matsumoto.  Kanjiro.  Present  day. 
One  of  the  pioneers  of  the  school  of 
modern  craftsmen  who  have  carried 
to  a  high  pitch  of  excellence  the  art 
of  inlaying  iron,  bronze,  shibuichi,  and 
shakudo  with  gold  and  silver.  Works 
in  Tokyo. 

Matsumura.  Shoami.  1850.  Bunye- 
mon.  An  expert  of  Aizu. 

Meiju.  Umetada  Okacla.  1640.  Origi- 
nally an  artist  of  Kyoto,  but  moved 
to  Hagi  in  Choshiu,  and  founded  the 
Okada  family  of  that  place  (vide 
Nobumasa). 

Meishin.      Vide  Shigeyoshi  Umetada. 

Miboku.  Vide  Masayori  and  Kaneyori, 
Norinobu  and  Masanobu. 

Minjo.  i  gth  cent.  (d.  1864.)  A  great 
metal-chiseller  of  Yedo. 

Minkoku.  igth  cent.  A  great  metal- 
chiseller  of  Tokyo,  who  worked  in 
conjunction  with  Shuraku,  Temmin, 
Riumin,  and  Minjo,  forming  the 
gonin-gumi  (five  men  company),  who 
produced  many  splendid  works  be- 
tween 1854  and  1860.  Minkoku  is 
now  too  old  to  work. 

Minriu.  i8th  and  igth  cent.  Great 
metal-worker  of  (Tokyo)  Yedo. 

Mitane.  Shigeyoshi.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Mitsu.  The  second  ideograph  of  this 
name  is  disguised,  and  cannot  be 
read,  nor  has  it  been  identified  as 
the  mark  of  any  expert.  The  name 
is  found,  however,  on  very  beautiful 
rings  and  tips  of  shakudo,  with  finely 
polished  ground,  delicate  decoration 
of  herons,  river  scenes,  etc.  Proba- 
ble date,  1730. 

Mitsuaki.  Goto.  1850.  Sixteenth  rep- 
resentative of  the  Goto  family. 
Called  Hojo.  Yedo. 

Mitsuaki.  Ishiguro.  1850.  Tetsugoro. 
Yedo. 

Mitsuaki.  Goto.  1570.  Jinyemon. 
Kaga. 

Mitsuchika.      Vide  Reijo. 

Mitsuchika.      Vide  Joyo. 

Mitsufusa.  Hayata.  1830.  Zennosuke. 
A  pupil  of  Terumitsu  (Omori).  Hi- 
rado  (Hizen). 

Mitsufusa.  Vatobe.  Tamagawa.  1790. 
Hikoroku.  A  celebrated  artist  of 


Mito.  His  name  is  commonly  pro- 
nounced Tsuju.  Father  of  the  great 
Yoshinaga  of  Mito. 

Mitsuharu.     Goto.     1670.     Kyoto. 

Mitsuharu.      Vide  Yekijo. 

Mitsuharu.  Goto.  1710.  Commonly 
called  Kambei.  Kyoto. 

Mitsuhaya.  Shoami.  1810.  A  guard- 
maker  of  Kyoto. 

Mitsuhide.      Vide  Yenjo. 

Mitsuhiro.     Goto.     1700.     Kyoto. 

Mitsuhisa.      Vide  Taijo. 

Mitsuhisa.     Vide  Genyemon. 

Mitsuhisa.  Yatabe.  1740.  Hikoroku. 
A  skilled  expert  of  Mito,  pupil  of 
Koami. 

Mitsukata.  1 9th  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Choshiu. 

Mitsukatsu.      Vide  Kaijo. 

Mitsukuni.     Vide  Yetsujo. 

Mitsukyo.      Vide  Senjo. 

Mitsumasa.     Vide  Shoyo. 

Mitsumasa.  Goto.  1620.  One  of  the 
three  Mino-bori  (vide  Kakujo).  Mino. 

Mitsumasa.  Goto.  1720.  The  twelfth 
Goto  Master.  Kyoto. 

Mitsumasa.     Vide  Teijo. 

Mitsumasa.  Mizuno.  1660.  Genroku. 
Kaga. 

Mitsumasa.  Kikuoka.  1770.  Brother 
of  Mitsuyuki  Kikuoka. 

Mitsumasa.  Tsuji.  1750.  Tanji. 
Called  himself  Rinsendo.  An  ex- 
pert of  the  highest  rank,  skilled  in 
every  kind  of  work,  takabori,  kebori, 
zogan,  etc.  His  work  is  compared  by 
Japanese  connoisseurs  to  a  spray  of 
plum-blossom  in  a  beautiful  vase. 
He  worked  chiefly  in  Omi  province, 
but  lived  for  some  time  in  Yedo  with 
Soyo.  He  died  in  1776,  at  the  age 

of  53- 
Mitsumichi.     Ishiguro.     1810.     Sanjiro. 

A  pupil  of  Jimiyo.     Yedo. 
Mitsumori.      Goto.      1760.      The  four- 
teenth Goto  Master.     Called  Keijo. 

Yedo. 

Mitsunaga.      Vide  Kwanjo. 
Mitsunaga.     Vide  Shunjo. 
Mitsunaga.     Vide  Seijo. 
Mitsunami.     Goto.     1690.     Kyoto. 
Mitsunari.     Goto.     1600.     Kihei.     Vide 

Zenjo.     Kyoto. 

Mitsunobu.     Goto.     1690.     Kyoto. 
Mitsunobu.      Vide  Kakujo. 
Mitsunobu.     Miyagawa.     1830.      Kichi- 

jo.     A  pupil  of  Terumitsu  (Omori). 

Yedo. 


42 


CHISELLERS 


Mitsunori.  Goto.  1860.  Seventeenth 
representative  of  the  Goto  family. 
Called  Tenjo.  Died  1879.  The 
last  of  the  Goto  experts.  Yedo. 

Mitsunori.     Goto.     1760.     Kyoto. 

Mitsunori.     Goto.     1680.     Kyoto. 

Mitsunori.      Vide  Keijo. 

Mitsunori.     Goto.     1670.     Kyoto. 

Mitsunori.      Vide  Joren. 

Mitsunori.      Vide  Zenjo. 

Mitsuoki.     Goto.     1680.     Kyoto. 

Mitsusada.      Vide  Renjo. 

Mitsusada.  Murakami.  1750.  To- 
dayu.  Toyama. 

Mitsusada.  1720.  lyemon.  A  pupil 
of  Somin. 

Mitsusato.  Goto.  1610.  One  of  the 
three  Mino-bori  (vide  Kakujo). 
Celebrated  for  deeply  chiselled 
landscapes.  Mino. 

Mitsusato.  1 9th  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo. 

Mitsushige.      Vide  Sokujo. 

Mitsushima.  Goto.  1660.  Shichizaye- 
mon.  Kyoto. 

Mitsushiro.  Otsuki.  igthcent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Mitsusuke.     Goto.     1670.     Kyoto. 

Mitsutada.     Goto.     1610.     Kyoto. 

Mitsutada.     Vide  KiujS. 

Mitsutaka.      Vide  Yenjo. 

Mitsutaka.  Saito.  1830.  Ginzo.  Pupil 
of  Teramitsu  (Omori).  Sendai. 

Mitsutaka.  Morimura.  1840.  A  highly 
skilled  expert  of  Yedo.  Celebrated 
for  chiselling  insects. 

Mitsutaka.     Vide  Shujo. 

Mitsutake.     Goto.     1640.     Kyoto. 

Mitsutaki.  Kikuoka.  igthcent.  Met- 
al-worker of  Yedo.  Art  name, 
Kinkodo. 

Mitsutatsu.  i  gth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Ichijiu-sai. 

Mitsutatsu.  Omori.  i  gth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Mitsuteru.  Mikami.  1730.  A  pupil  of 
Yanagawa  Naomitsu.  Yedo. 

Mitsutoki.  Kakinuma.  1830.  Shinzo. 
A  pupil  of  Terumitsu  (Omori). 
Yedo. 

Mitsutomi.      Vide  Injo. 

Mitsutomo.      Vide  Renjo. 

Mitsutomo.    Goto.    1720.    Rihei.   Kyoto. 

Mitsutomo.  1 9th  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Mitsutoshi.      Vide  Kwanjo. 

Mitsutoshi.  Kikuoka.  igthcent.  Met- 
al-worker of  Yedo. 


Mitsutoshi.     Vide  Tsujo. 

Mitsutoyo.      Vide  Shujo. 

Mitsutoyo.      Vide  Shujo  and  Kambei. 

Mitsutsugu.  Yoshioka.  1740.  Kaye- 
mon  or  Munehiro.  Yedo. 

Mitsutsuke.     Goto.     1760.     Kyoto. 

Mitsutsuna.     Vide  Kaij5. 

Mitsutsune.  Otsuki.  1750.  Yamash- 
iro-ya  Kihachi.  Said  to  be  the  nine- 
teenth in  descent  from  Kworin. 
Kyoto. 

Mitsutsune.  Nakai.  1590.  Founder  of 
the  well-known  family  of  Hagi  (vide 
Nobutsune)  guard-makers.  Fre- 
quently used  the  mark  Jokan  Inshi. 
Suwo. 

Mitsutsune.  Nakai.  1390.  The  found- 
er of  the  Nakai  family.  He  worked 
at  Suwo  in  Yamaguchi,  and  his  art 
name  was  Sakan  Inshi. 

Mitsuyori.      Vide  Ritsujo. 

Mitsuyori.  Murata.  1760.  Hanjiro. 
Called  also  Kozui.  Used  the  mark 
Ichiyodo.  Yedo. 

Mitsuyoshi.  Goto.  1830.  Fifteenth 
representative  of  the  Goto  family. 
Called  Shinjo.  Yedo.  Art  name, 
Shintoken. 

Mitsuyoshi.  Nishimura.  1750.  Sas- 
aya  Genzuki.  A  good  expert  pupil 
of  Mitsutsune  (Otsuki).  Kyoto. 

Mitsuyoshi.      Vide  Joken. 

Mitsuyoshi.      Vide  Gen  jo. 

Mitsuyoshi.  Tachibana.  1840.  A 
skilled  expert  of  Yedo.  Art  name, 
Sh5jo,  indicating  his  love  of  wine. 

Mitsuyuki.     Vide  Unjo. 

Mitsuyuki.  Kikuoka.  1760.  Ritoji. 
Called  himself  Dopposai  and  Saika- 
an,  which  names  are  found  on  his 
works.  A  pupil  of  Yanagawa  Nao- 
mitsu, and  an  expert  of  the  highest 
order.  He  carved  in  the  Yokoya 
style,  and  Japanese  connoisseurs, 
speaking  of  the  delicacy  and  strength 
of  his  chiselling,  say  that  it  resembles 
feather-grass  drooping  heavy  with 
dew,  but  not  touching  the  ground. 
Yedo. 

Mitsuyuki.     Goto.     1680.     Kyoto. 

Mitsuzane.      Vide  Rinjo. 

Miyasaka.  Yoshimasa.  Present  day. 
Metal-sculptor.  Pupil  of  Unno  Sh5- 
min. 

Miyochin.  Family  of  armourers  and 
workers  in  metal.  The  genealogy 
of  the  family  extends  back  to  the 
second  century  of  the  Christian  era, 


43 


CHISELLERS 


but  as  armourers  their  history  may 
be  said  to  commence  with  the  six- 
teenth representative,  Munemichi. 
The  names  are  as  follows,  in  chrono- 
logical order : 

Miyochin.     Munemichi.     640  A.D. 

Miyochin.  Munetsugu.  670.  Said  to 
have  forged  armour  for  the  Emperor 
Tenji. 

Miyochin.     Munetoshi.     690. 

Miyochin.     Munematsu.     720. 

Miyochin.     Munemori.     760. 

Miyochin.  Munemaro.  800.  Armourer 
to  the  Emperor  Kwamma  and  Seiwa. 

Miyochin.     Muneshima.     820. 

Miyochin.     Munekuni.     840. 

Miyochin.     Munetora.     860. 

Miyochin.     Muneyori.     880. 

Miyochin.     Muneshimo.     890. 

Miyochin.     Munemori.     910. 

Miyochin.     Munetoshi.     930. 

Miyochin.  Munezane.  980.  Said  to 
have  forged  a  shield  of  gold  for  Mi- 
namoto  no  Mitsunaka. 

Miyochin.     Munekazu.     1010. 

Miyochin.     Munekuni.     1030. 

Miyochin.     Munenaka.     1060. 

Miyochin.  Munetsune.  noo.  Known 
in  the  artistic  world  as  Go-Munet- 
sugu,  or  the  "  second  Munetsugu," 
having  changed  his  name  to  Munet- 
sugu in  his  late  years.  Said  to 
have  forged  iron  armour  decorated 
with  eight  varieties  of  dragons  (hachi- 
riyo). 

Miyochin.     Muneyoshi.     1140. 

Miyochin.  Munesuke  (i).  1154  to 
1 185.  Called  also  Masuda.  Had 
the  rank  of  Idzumo  no  Kami. 
Worked  first  in  Idzumo  for  Yori- 
tomo ;  then  in  Kyoto,  and  finally  for 
the  Minamoto  in  Kamakura.  He 
is  said  to  have  forged  the  suit  of 
armour  worn  by  Yoshitsume,  and 
now  preserved  at  the  Kasuga  Temple. 
Commonly  he  is  spoken  of  as  the 
first  representative  of  the  family,  but 
the  fact  is  that  the  art  of  decorative 
forging  first  became  admirable  in  his 
hands. 

Miyochin.  Munekiyo(2).  1200.  Worked 
at  Kamakura.  Had  the  rank  of  Gi- 
yobu  Taiyu. 

Miyochin.  Muneyuki(3).  1215. 
Worked  at  Kyoto.  Had  rank  of 
Giyobu  Taiyu. 

Miyochin.  Munemasu  (4).  1225.  Worked 
at  Katsuyama  in  the  province  of 


Kii.  One  of  the  greatest  of  the 
MiyOchin  artists.  Had  the  rank  of 
Hyoye-no-Suke. 

Miyochin.  Muneyoshi.  1200.  Second 
son  of  Munesuke. 

Miyochin.  Munehide.  1200.  Third  son 
of  Munesuke. 

Miyochin.  Muneyasu.  1200.  Fourth 
son  of  Munesuke. 

Miyochin.  Yoshikiyo.  1220.  Son  of 
Muneyoshi. 

Miyochin.  Yoshitsugu.  1220.  Son  of 
Muneyoshi. 

Miyochin.  Munenao.  1230.  Second 
son  of  Munekiyo. 

Miyochin.  Muneshige  (5).  1240.  Lived 
at  Odawara.  Had  the  rank  of  Sak- 
yo  no  Tayu. 

Miyochin.  Munekane.  1240.  Second 
son  of  Muneyuki. 

Miyochin.  Munesumi.  1250.  Third  son 
of  Muneyuki. 

Miyochin.  Muneto.  1240.  Second  son 
of  Munemasu. 

Miyochin.  Munetada  (6).  1 270.  Worked 
at  Sano  in  Mino.  Had  the  rank  of 
Shin-dayu. 

Miyochin.  Shigeiye.  1270.  Second  son 
of  Muneshige. 

Miyochin.  Yoshishige.  1270.  Third 
son  of  Muneshige. 

Miyochin.  Munetsuna  (7).  1300. 
Worked  in  Kyoto.  Had  rank  of 
Sakon  no  Tayu. 

Miyochin.  Muneyoshi.  1310.  Second 
son  of  Munetada. 

Miyochin.  Munemitsu  (8).  1320. 
Worked  in  Kyoto.  Had  rank  of 
Hyobu  Taiyu. 

Miyochin.  Munenori.  1330.  Second 
son  of  Munetsuna. 

Miyochin.  Munemasa  (9).  1330. 
Worked  in  Kyoto.  Had  rank  of 
Sakon  no  Tayu. 

Miyochin.  Muneyasu  (10).  1380. 
Worked  in  Kyoto.  Had  rank  of 
Hyoye-no-Suke.  Made  a  gold  helmet 
for  the  Shogun  Yoshimitsu.  He  re- 
ceived large  estates  in  recognition  of 
his  skill. 

The  first  ten  generations  of  the 
family,  from  Munesuke  in  the  twelfth 
century  to  Muneyasu  in  the  four- 
teenth, are  known  as  "  Miyochin  no 
Judai,"  or  the  "  Ten  generations  of 
Miyochin."  They  occupy  in  the  his- 
tory of  armour-forging  a  place  some- 
what analogous  to  that  occupied  by 


44 


CHISELLERS 


the  fourteen  generations  of  Goto 
masters  in  the  history  of  sword- 
mount  decoration.  Muneyasu,  the 
tenth  representative,  is  specially  cele- 
brated. 

Miyochin.  Munetoki.  1380.  Second  son 
of  Munemasa. 

Miyochin.  Yoshihiro  (n).  1400. 
Worked  in  Kyoto.  Had  rank  of 
Sakyo  no  Tayu. 

Miyochin.  Yoshitada  (12).  1420. 
Worked  in  Kyoto.  Rank,  Sahiyoye 
no  Jo. 

Miyochin.  Yoshinori  (13).  1440. 
Worked  in  Kyoto.  Called  also  Goro- 
dayu. 

Miyochin.  Yoshinaga  (14).  1450. 
Worked  in  Kyoto.  Rank,  Shikibu 
Tayu.  One  of  the  greatest  of  the 
family. 

Miyochin.  Yoshiari(i5).  1480.  Worked 
at  Kamakura.  Called  also  Shinjiro. 

Miy5chin.  Yoshiyasu  (16).  1520. 
Worked  at  Fuchiu  in  Hitachi  and  at 
Odawara.  Called  also  Samuro-dayu. 
The  six  representatives  from  (u)  to 
(16)  are  known  as  the  Rokudai,  or 
the  "  Six  Generations."  They  are 
also  called  Giyoshi,  or  the  "  Honour- 
able Masters."  The  names  are : 
Yoshihiro,  Yoshitada,  Yoshinori, 
Yoshinaga,  Yoshiari,  and  Yoshiyasu. 

Miyochin.  *  Takayoshi.  1450.  Sec- 
ond son  of  Yoshinori,  and  not  a  rep- 
resentative of  the  main  line,  but  one 
of  the  most  celebrated  of  the  Miyo- 
chin artists.  Worked  at  Kamakura. 

Miyochin.  Yoshihisa.  1460.  Second 
son  of  Yoshinaga. 

Miyochin.  *Yoshimichi.  1500.  Second 
son  of  Yoshiari.  Worked  in  Kyoto. 
Not  a  representative  of  the  main 
line,  but  a  renowned  master. 

Miyochin.  Katsuyoshi.  1510.  Third 
son  of  Yoshiari. 

Miyochin.  *Nobuiye  (17).  1520.  Orig- 
inally called  Yasuiye.  Worked  at 
Shirai  in  Joshiu.  One  of  the  most 
celebrated  of  the  Miyochin  Mas- 
ters. 

The  three  names  marked  with  an 
asterisk,  Takayoshi,  Yoshimichi,  and 
Nobuiye  are  those  of  the  "  Nochi 
no  Sansaku,"  or  "  Three  Later 
Masters." 

Miyochin.  Narikuni.  1470.  Worked 
at  Yawata  in  Joshiu.  Son  of 
Yoshihisa. 


Miyochin.     Kunichika.      1420.     Son  of 

Yoshihisa. 
Miyochin.     Narichika.      1420.     Son   of 

Yoshihisa.    Worked  in  Joshiu.    One 

of  the  great  Miyochin  Masters. 
Miyochin.     Narishige.      1500.      Son   of 

Narichika.      Worked  at   Yawata  in 

Kozuke.     One   of   the   great    Miy5- 

chin  Masters. 
Miyochin.      Kunihisa.      1530.      Son  of 

Narishige. 
Miyochin.       Hisaiye.       1550.      Son    of 

Kunihisa.      Worked  at    Kamakura. 

One  of  the  Miyochin  celebrities. 
Miyochin.     Fusanobu.     1530.      Son   of 

Yoshiyasu. 
Miyochin.    Munehisa.    1580.    Grandson 

of  Yoshiyasu. 

Miyochin.     Katsumasa.     1580.     Grand- 
son    of     Yoshiyasu.       Worked    in 

Joshiu.     One  of  the  great  Miyochin 

Masters. 
Miyochin.     Yoshihisa.      1630.      Son   of 

Munehisa.     Worked   at   Kamakura. 

One   of   the    great    Miyochin     Mas- 
ters. 
Miyochin.     Yoshishige.     1620.     Son  of 

Yoshihisa. 
Miyochin.    Sadaiye  (18).    1550.   Worked 

in  Odawara  and    Iga.     Called   also 

Hachiro  and  Heiroku. 
Miyochin.      Fusaiye.       1540.       Second 

son  of  Nobuiye.    Worked  in  Joshiu. 

A  great  master. 
Miyochin.      Fusamune.      1550.      Third 

son  of  Nobuiye.     Worked  at  Oda- 
wara.    A  celebrity. 
Miyochin.  Muneiye  (19).   1580.  Worked 

in  Omi.     Manufactured  a  celebrated 

helmet     for     Tokugawa      lyeyasu. 

Called  also  Kindaro. 
Miyochin.    Munenobu  (20).    1600.    Son 

of  Muneiye.     Worked  in  Yedo  and 

Osaka.     One  of  the  great  Miyochin 

Masters. 
Miyochin.     Munekiyo.      1620.      Second 

son  of  Muneiye. 
Miyochin.      Munenaga.      1620.      Third 

son  of  Muneiye. 
Myochin.  Kunimori  (21).  1620.  Worked 

in  Yedo.     Son  of  Munenobu.     Had 

rank  of  Nagato  no  Kami.      Called 

also  Kunimichi. 
Miyochin.     Harunobu.      1620.     Second 

son  of  Munenobu. 
Miyochin.        Muneshige    (22).        1640. 

Worked    in    Yedo.     Had    rank    of 

Nagato  no  Kami. 


45 


CHISELLERS 


Miyochin.      Munetoshi    or    Kunimichi. 

(23),     1650.     Worked  in  Yedo. 
Miyochin.      Munenushi.     1650.     Second 

son  of  Muneshige. 
Miyochin.      Munemasa.      1650.      Third 

son  of  Muneshige. 
Miyochin.        Munesuke     (24).        1710. 

Worked   in   Yedo.      Had    rank    of 

Osumi  no  Kami. 
Miyochin.        Munemasa    (25).        1730. 

Second  son  of  Munesuke.     Worked 

in  Yedo,  and  had  rank  of  Osumi  no 

Kami. 
Miyochin.        Munemasa    (26).        1740. 

Worked   in    Yedo.      Had    rank    of 

Nagato     no     Kami.       Called     also 

Seijiro. 
Miyochin.     Munetaye  (27).    1760.    Had 

rank  of  Osumi  no  Kami. 
Miyochin.    Pupils  of  Yoshimichi.     1500. 

Kyoto. 

1.  Yoshikatsu. 

2.  Yoshimichi. 

3.  Yoshiiye. 

Miyochin.     Pupils   of    Nobuiye.      1520. 
Joshiu. 

1.  lyefusa. 

2.  Nobutada. 

3.  Nobuyuki. 

4.  Nobumasa. 

5.  Nobutsuna. 

6.  Nobumitsu. 

Miyochin.     Pupils   of  Narishige.     1500. 
Kozuke. 

1.  Nariyoshi. 

2.  Naritada. 

3.  Naritsugu. 

4.  Munehisa. 

5.  Munetoki. 

Mioju.         Vide      Shigeyoshi     Umetada 

(Hikujiro). 

Mizuno.   Family  name.    Vide  Yoshishige. 
Mizuno.       Gesshiu.       Present    day.      A 

skilled  sculptor  in  metal.     Pupil  of 

Unno  Shomin. 
Mogarashi.      Vide  Soden. 
Mori.     Joken.      ipthcent.    Metal-worker 

of   Tokyo.     Also  skilled  as  a  wood- 
carver. 
Moriaki.       Ishiguro.       1820.      Torajiro. 

Yedo. 
Moriakira.       Kuwamura.     1640.      Jihei. 

A    great   expert.     Son  of   Morihiro. 

Kaga. 
Morichika.      Inouye.      1860.     A  skilled 

expert  of  Tokyo.    Pupil  of  Arichika. 
Morihira.       Katsugi.      1720.       lyemon. 

Kaga. 


Morihiro.  Kuwamura.  1620.  Jihei. 
Art  name,  Riyoyu.  A  skilled  expert, 
not  inferior  to  his  brother  Morikatsu. 
Kaga. 

Morikata.  Yoshishige.  1690.  Gen- 
shiro.  Kaga. 

Morikatsu.  Kuwamura.  1620.  Mat- 
sushiro,  and  afterwards  Choyemon. 
A  celebrated  carver.  Art  name, 
Riyoyu.  Kaga. 

Morikatsu.  Murata.  1 780.  A  pupil  of 
the  Shoami  family  of  lyo.  Used 
the  mark  Murata  Ro,  or  the  "  old 
man  Murata." 

Morikuni.  Katsugi.  1740.  Tozaye- 
mon.  Kaga. 

Morikuni.  Katsugi.  1770.  Tozaye- 
mon.  Some  very  beautiful  iron 
guards  by  this  expert  are  in  exis- 
tence. Kaga. 

Morikuni.  Shoami.  1730.  Sosho.  A 
great  master  in  carving  dragons  and 
clouds.  Matsuyama  (lyo).  Marked 
his  work  Shoami  Sosho. 

Morimichi.  Kuwamura.  1660.  Zenji. 
A  celebrated  expert,  not  inferior  to 
his  brother  Moriyuki.  Kaga. 

Morimichi.  Sato.  1810.  Yaichiro. 
Mito. 

Morimine.  Shoami.  1600.  Founded 
the  lyo  branch  of  the  Shoami  family, 
and  is  therefore  sometimes  spoken 
of  as  the  "  Second  Founder  "  of  the 
family  (vide  Takatsune  and  Nori- 
sada).  Worked  at  Matsuyama. 

Morimine.  Shoami.  1640.  Worked  at 
Matsuyama  in  lyo. 

Morimitsu.  Katsugi.  1650.  Hachibei. 
A  pupil  of  Morisada  Hanshiro. 
Kaga. 

Morimitsu.  Kuwamura.  ,1660.  Kin- 
shiro.  A  good  carver.  Pupil  of 
Koko.  Kaga. 

Morimitsu.  Katsugi.  1680.  Kanye- 
mon.  A  skilled  expert :  at  first  an 
inlayer,  and  afterwards  a  carver. 
Worked  originally  in  Kaga,  and  then 
entered  the  service  of  the  feudal 
chief  of  Toyama. 

Morimura.  Yukimori.  igth  cent. 
Metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Morisada.  Katsugi.  1690.  Yoshiro, 
and  afterwards  Hanshiro.  A 
skilled  artist ;  grandson  of  Morisada 
Yozayemon.  He  entered  the  ser- 
vice of  the  feudal  chief  of  Toyama. 
His  son  of  the  same  name  (Han- 
shiro) succeeded  him.  There  were 


46 


CHISELLERS 


thus  four  Morisadas  of  the  Katsugi 
family. 

Morisada.  Katsugi.  1640.  Yozaye- 
•mon.  A  highly  skilled  artist.  He 
worked  first  in  Fushimi  and  after- 
wards entered  the  service  of  the 
feudal  chief  of  Kaga,  receiving  an 
annual  allowance  of  fifty  bags  of  rice. 

Morisada.  Katsugi.  1660.  Yoshiro. 
Son  of  Morisada  Yozayemon  and 
counted  of  equal  skill  with  his  father. 
His  son,  of  the  same  personal  name, 
succeeded  him.  Kaga. 

Morishige.  Kuwamura.  1640.  Sei- 
shiro.  Kaga. 

Moritsugu.      Vide  S6y5. 

Moritsugu.  Katsugi.  1690.  Genzaye- 
mon.  Kaga. 

Moriyoshi.  Katsugi.  1670.  Sozaye- 
mon.  Kaga. 

Moriyoshi.  Kuwamura.  1610.  Yos- 
hiro. The  founder  of  the  Kuwa- 
mura family. 

Moriyuki.  Kuwamura.  1640.  Jirosa- 
buro.  A  very  celebrated  artist. 
Kaga. 

Motoaki.  Morioka.  1800.  Heizaburo. 
Pupil  of  Kaizantei.  Mito. 

Motoakira.  Suzuki.  1780.  Shinsuke. 
Called  himself  Tankasai.  A  great 
expert.  Pupil  of  Sekijoken.  Mito. 

Motochika.  Hiyama.  1780.  Hanroku. 
Called  himself  Kaizantei.  A  skilled 
expert.  Pupil  of  Sekijoken.  Mito. 

Motochika.  Fujita.  1800.  Jisaku. 
Called  himself  Ontaiken.  A  skilled 
expert.  Mito. 

Motoharu.  Katoji.  1780.  Jiyemon. 
Called  himself  Genjuken.  Pupil  of 
Sekijoken  and  a  great  expert.  Mito. 

Motohide.  Sato.  1830.  Gensuke.  A 
pupil  of  Seiunsai.  Mito. 

Motohiro.  Shimizu.  1800.  Yeikichi. 
Mito. 

Motohiro.  1780.  Shinzaburo.  Pupil 
of  Sekijoken.  Mito. 

Motohisa.  Nakamura.  1810.  Mago- 
shichi.  Mito. 

Motohisa.  Yoshikawa.  1800.  Yogoro. 
Called  himself  Tokaken.  A  pupil 
of  Chikuzanken  and  a  skilled  expert. 
Mito.  • 

Motokore.  Ishikawa.  1780.  Shoye- 
mon.  Mito. 

Motokyo.  i  Qth  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo. 

Motomichi.  Yasuyama.  1790.  Kin- 
jiro.  Mito. 


Motomitsu.     Gunji.      1800.      Sozaburo. 

Pupil  of  Kaizantei.     Mito. 
Motomochi.      Hiyama.       1810.      Nihei. 

Called     himself      Kwaizantei.        A 

skilled  expert.     Mito. 
Motonaga.     Nan  jo.     1780.    Shinzaburo. 

Pupil  of  Sekij5ken.     Mito. 
Motonaga.     Yamamoto.     1800.     Shiko- 

hachi.     Pupil  of  Kinzantei.     Mito. 
Motonaga.      Ogawa.     1800.      Chingoro. 

Called     himself      Jichikaken.        A 

skilled  expert.     Mito. 
Motonobu.      Hanawa.      1780.      Shinzo. 

Mito. 
Motonobu.     Watanabe.     1810.      Tsune- 

kichi.     A  pupil  of  Ontaiken.     Mito. 
Motonori.     Kurozawa.     1810.      Ichijiro. 

A  pupil  of  Tohoken.     Mito. 
Motonori.     Nemoto.     1800.      Shinraku. 

Called  himself  Chooken.     A  skilled 

expert.     Mito. 
Motonori.      Onose.       1780.       Shinraku. 

Pupil  of  Sekijoken.     Mito. 
Motonori.       Yasuyama.       1700.      Shin- 
suke.     Called    himself    Hozanken. 

Originally  of  the  Yokoya  family.     A 

pupil  of   Chobei    (Kikugawa),    and, 

like  his  teacher,  famous  for  carving 

chrysanthemums.     Father  of   Seke- 

Joken.     Mito. 
Motosada.     Ogawa.      1780.      Shingoro. 

Called    himself     Chikuzanken.       A 

pupil  of  Sekijoken.     Mito. 
Motosada.      Tani.      igth   cent.      Metal- 
worker of  Osaka. 
Motoshige.     Sakamoto.     1780.     Genza- 

buro.     Mito. 
Motoshige.     Mimura.     1810.    Juzaburo. 

Called  himself  Seiunsai.     A  skilled 

expert.     Mito. 
Motoshige.       Ogawa.       1800.        Genji. 

Mito. 
Mototaka.     Nagayama.      iSio.      Moto- 

hachi.     A  pupil  of  T6h5ken.     Mito. 
Mototaka.     1810.      A  pupil  of   Jichiku- 

ken.     Mito. 
Mototeru.     Yasuyama.     1780.     Yeisuke. 

Mito. 
Mototomo.     1780.     Joi.     Called  himself 

Seishinken.     A  skilled  expert.  Mito. 
Mototoshi.     Yamagata.     1820.    A  Mito 

expert.     A  pupil  of  Seishinken. 
Mototsune.     Gunji.     1780.     Sriimpachi. 

Mito. 

Motoyama.  Munehide.   igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 
Motoyasu.     Uchikishi.     1800.       Sh5bei. 

Pupil  of  Kaizantei.     Mito. 


47 


CHISELLERS 


Motoyasu.  Yasuyama.  1790.  Yasujiro. 
Mito 

Motoyori.  Hida.  1810.  Ichijiro.  A 
pupil  of  Tohoken.  Mito. 

Motoyoshi.  Yamagata.  1810.  A  pupil 
of  Tohoken.  Mito. 

Motoyoshi.  Sasaki.  1780.  Chiuji. 
Pupil  of  Sekijoken.  Mito. 

Motoyuki.  Watahiro.  1780.  Hikosa- 
buro.  Mito. 

Motoyuki.  Suzuga.  1800.  Gensuke. 
Pupil  of  Tankusai.  Mito. 

Motozumi.  Yasuyama.  1760.  Shin- 
zayemon.  Also  called  Sekijoken, 
and  afterwards  Tdgu.  An  artist  of 
the  highest  skill,  celebrated  for  chis- 
elling figures  in  Chinese  and  Japa- 
nese style  in  shibuichi.  He  also 
carved  mountain  genii  (sennin)  with 
grand  power  and  delicacy  in  the  style 
of  Joi.  It  is  on  record  that  he  cop- 
ied many  of  the  old  masterpieces. 
Lived  in  Mito,  but  often  visited 
Yedo.  Died  at  the  age  of  90  (1791), 
and  worked  vigorously  on  his  88th 
birthday.  His  son  Tozaburo  (also 
called  Shinyemon)  carved  in  the 
same  style  but  with  inferior  ability. 
Mito. 

Mukai.  Shoko.  Present  day.  An  ex- 
pert sculptor  in  metal.  Pupil  of 
Unno  Shomin. 

Muneaki.  Nomura.  1730.  Sokuro.  Art 
name,  Jumeishi.  Hikone. 

Muneaki.  Nomura.  1730.  His  name 
is  also  pronounced  Soken.  Called 
also  Yumeishi.  A  pupil  of  Kane- 
nori  (Nomura).  Worked  at  Hikone. 

Munechika.  Miyochin.  iSthcent.  Metal- 
worker of  Matsuye  (in  Haruta). 

Munechika.  Tachibana  and  Fujiwara. 
1000.  At  first  called  Nakamune. 
The  founder  of  the  Umetada  family. 
A  nobleman  who  employed  his  leis- 
ure in  forging  swords,  and  thus  came 
to  be  called  Sanjo  no  Kokaji  (the 
amateur  forger  of  Sanjo).  There  is 
no  evidence  that  he  made  sword- 
furniture,  but  he  is  included  in  this 
list  as  he  founded  one  of  the  fami- 
lies of  repute.  He  was  born  in  960 
and  died  in  1030.  The  name  Ume- 
tada was  not  adopted  until  the  nine- 
teenth generation  after  Munechika, 
namely,  the  time  of  Shigemune. 

Munefusa.  Fujita.  1650.  Date  uncer- 
tain. Younger  brother  of  Fujita 
Munehisa  and  a  skilled  expert.  Kaga. 


Munehiro.      Vide  Sokwan. 

Munehisa.  Fujita.  1640.  Date  uncer- 
tain. Danyemon.  A  skilled  expert. 
Younger  brother  of  Umetada  Nobu- 
fusa.  Kaga. 

Munehisa.  Soami.  1650.  Yumeishi.  A 
pupil  of  Soden.  Worked  at  Hikone. 

Munemasa.  1710.  Kaheiji.  A  pupil 
of  Somin.  Carver  to  Matsudaira, 
feudal  chief  of  Hizen. 

Munemasa.     Inouye.     1650.     Kyoto. 

Munemime.  Uyemura.  1720.  Kuye- 
mon  or  Kihei.  A  great  expert. 
Called  also  Soho,  and  commonly 
Masuya  Kihei.  Renowned  for  car- 
ving warriors.  Kyoto. 

Munemochi.  Alternative  pronunciation 
of  Soyu.  Vide  Toshiharu  (Naia). 

Munenaga.  1690.  Kuroji.  Son  of 
Munetsugu  Jiro.  Kaga. 

Munenori.  1770.  Bennosuke.  A  pupil 
of  Tetsuya  Gembei.  Kyoto. 

Munenori.  Miyochin.  1540.  A  maker  of 
guards.  He  was  remarkably  skilled 
in  tempering  iron.  His  guards  gen- 
erally have,  on  the  face,  Tosa  no 
Kuni-ju  Miyochin  Munenori  (Miyo- 
chin Munenori  residing  in  Tosa), 
and  on  the  reverse,  Shinto  Gotesu- 
ren  (five  times  wrought  iron,  Shinto). 

Munenori.  Alternative  pronunciation  of 
Soden  (q.  v.). 

Munenori.      Vide  Nobutsugu. 

Munenori.  1770.  Bennosuke.  A  pupil 
of  Tetsuya  Gembei.  Kyoto. 

Munesuke.  Ki.  1640.  Known  as  Mi- 
yochin Osumi  no  Kami  (Miyochin 
Lord  of  Osumi).  A  descendant  of 
Nobuiye  and  a  skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Muneto.    Family  name.     Vide  Naomichi. 

Munetoki.  Umetada.  1830.  Shichiza- 
yemon.  Representative  of  the  thirty- 
fifth  generation  of  the  Umetada 
family.  Worked  in  Yedo. 

Munetoshi.  Nara.  1720.  Son  of  Tosh- 
inaga,  fourth  representative  of  the 
Nara  family. 

Munetsugu.  1670.  Jiro  ;  son  of  Mune- 
yoshi  Hiyobu.  Kaga. 

Munetsugu.  Yoshioka.  1690.  Chojiro, 
or  Choyemon.  Afterwards  called 
Sokei.  Yedo.  • 

Munetsugu.  Yoshioka.  1820.  Bungon. 
Yedo. 

Muneyoshi.  1650.  Hiyobu.  Went  from 
Fushimi  to  Kaga  in  the  year  1645. 
A  great  expert.  Received  an  allow- 
ance of  one  hundred  bags  of  rice 


48 


CHISELLERS 


yearly  from  the  feudal  chief  of 
Kaga. 

Muneyoshi.  Umetada.  1670.  Mune- 
taka.  Date  uncertain.  He  had  the 
title  of  Kazuma-no-suke  and  lived  in 
Osaka.  His  work,  which  is  of  high 
quality,  carried  the  inscription,  Tach- 
ibana  Muneyoshi. 

Muneyuki.  Umetada.  1640.  Represen- 
tative of  the  twenty-eighth  generation 
of  the  Umetada  family.  Celebrated 
for  chiselling  guards  with  pierced 
decoration.  He  worked  for  the 
Tokugawa  Court  in  the  time  of  the 
third  Shogun,  lyemitsu,  but  resided 
in  Kyoto.  By  him  the  first  ideo- 
graph of  the  name  Umetada  was 
changed  from  Ume  (to  bury)  to  Ume 
(Plum),  and  the  Umetada  artists 
thenceforth  marked  their  pieces  with 
a  plum  blossom  above  the  ideograph 
Tada.  The  representatives  of  the 
family  worked  during  thirty-six  gen- 
erations, and  their  record  was  com- 
piled in  1830  by  Munetoki,  the  35th. 

Muneyuki.  1 8th  and  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Kiriusai. 

Nagaatsu.  Suga.  1720.  A  pupil  of 
Narikado  (Hirata)  and  a  skilled  ex- 
pert in  enamel  decoration.  Yedo. 

Nagafusa.  Hirata.  1760.  Icbizaye- 
mon.  A  pupil  of  Masatsugu  (No- 
mura). Worked  in  Awa. 

Nagafusa.  Hirata.  1760.  Ichizayemon. 
Takashima.  (Awa.) 

Nagahide.  Hirata.  1770.  Shingo. 
Worked  in  Awa. 

Nagahisa.      1650.     Shichibei.     Kaga. 

Nagahisa.     1660.    Genzayemon.    Kaga. 

Nagakiyo.     1720.     Kanroku.     Kaga. 

"Nagakiyo.  Tazawa.  1620.  Original 
family  name  Katsugi,  but  changed 
it  subsequently  to  Tazawa,  and  re- 
ceived a  yearly  salary  from  the 
feudal  chief  of  Kaga  as  a  skilled 
expert. 

Nagakuni.  Koichi.  1700.  Yazayemon. 
Kaga. 

Nagamasa.  Koichi.  1650.  Saburoye- 
mon.  An  expert  in  inlaying.  Kaga. 

Nagamine.  1730.  Jirozo.  A  grand  artist, 
celebrated  for  his  fine  chiselling  of 
men  in  armour,  the  figures  full  of 
life  and  motion,  and  even  the  faces 
animated.  His  father  of  the  same 
name  was  also  a  good  expert.  Kyoto. 

Nagamitsu.     1760.     Hambei.     Kaga. 

TJaganobu.     1670.    Rokuyemon.    Kaga. 


Naganobu.     1680.     Kichidayu.     Kaga. 

Nagasada.     1730.     Jisuke.     Kaga. 

Nagasone.  Akao.  1800.  Saichi.  A 
guard-maker  who  worked  in  the 
Akao  style,  but  used  iron  approxi- 
mating to  steel.  Yedo. 

Nagashige.  1720.  Kuroyemon ;  succes- 
sor of  Munenaga  Kuroji.  Kaga. 

Nagashige.  Koichi.  1650.  Shirazaburo. 
An  inlayer  and  carver  of  Kaga. 

Nagatake.  Imai.  1850.  Art  name,  Ky- 
osui.  Kyoto  expert  of  great  skill. 

Nagatsugu.  Sh5ami.  1600.  Yoshiro. 
Said  to  have  been  the  first  to  inlay 
brass  with  gold,  silver,  shakudo,  etc. 
Hence  such  work  is  commonly 
known  as  the  "  Yoshiro  style  "  ( Yos- 
hiro-fit).  Worked  at  Mino. 

Nagatsugu.  Yoshioka.  1640.  Choza- 
buro.  Yedo. 

Nagatsugu.     1780.     Toyotsugu.     Kaga. 

Nagatsugu.  Koichi.  1760.  Yazayemon. 
Kaga. 

Nagatsugu.  Koichi.  1740.  Yazayemon. 
Kaga. 

Nagatsugu.  Koichi.  1670.  Yazayemon. 
Kaga. 

Nagatsune.  Yasui.  1670.  Ichinomiya, 
Echizen.  A  great  expert.  Pupil  of 
Yasui  Takanaga.  Kyoto. 

Nagatsune.  Kashiwaya.  1770.  Chiu- 
hachi.  He  marked  his  works  Setsu- 
zan  or  Ganshoshi.  In  recognition  of 
his  extraordinary  ability  he  received 
the  title  of  Yechizen  no  Daijo,  and 
was  generally  known  as  Ichi  no 
Miya.  He  has  few  rivals  and  prob- 
ably no  superiors.  A  favorite  design 
on  his  early  carvings  was  the  tsu- 
kushi  (a  kind  of  horse-tail  grass) 
with  addition  of  frogs,  snails,  etc., 
and  his  skill  in  producing  these 
natural  objects  was  extraordinary. 
Subsequently  he  chiselled  dragons, 
shishi,  figures,  etc.,  with  equal  facility 
and  accuracy.  His  artistic  spirit  is 
compared  by  Japanese  connoisseurs 
to  the  moon  rising  over  mountains ; 
it  is  at  once  so  high  and  so  pure. 
He  died  in  1786.  Kyoto. 

Nagayori.  Azuma.  1760.  Matajiro. 
Commonly  called  Yeizui.  A  pupil 
of  Noriyori  (Hamano)  and  a  skilled 
expert.  His  art  name  was  Tsutembo. 
Yedo. 

Nagayoshi.  Kashiwaya.  1790.  Son  of 
Nagatsune,  and  almost  equal  to  his 
father  in  skill.  Kyoto. 


49 


CHISELLERS 


Nagayoshi.    1690.    Chozayemon.    Kaga, 

Nagayoshi.  Ichikawa.  1710.  Kinai. 
Not  to  be  confounded  with  the  great 
Kinai.  Kaga. 

Nagayoshi.  1750.  Kiujiro;  son  of  Na- 
gashige  Kuroyemon.  Kaga. 

Nagayoshi.     1640.     Kanyemon.     Kaga. 

Nagayoshi.  Ishiguro.  1840.  Called  him- 
self Jizan.  A  skilled  expert. 

Nakagawa.  Yoshizane.  Present  day. 
A  skilled  metal-chiseller  of  Bizen. 

Nakahara.  Yukitoshi.  i8th  and  igth 
cent.  Metal-worker  of  Choshiu. 

Nakayama.  ShSyeki.  i6th  and  i7th 
cent.  Common  name  Yojuro.  Orig- 
inally an  armourer,  he  settled  (1585) 
in  Kyoto,  and  acquired  a  high  repu- 
tation. 

Nakazato.  Norinaga.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  metal-chiseller  of  Tokyo,  who 
now  devotes  himself  largely  to 
cameo-cutting  in  shell. 

Namekawa.  Sadakatsu.  Present  day. 
Kinzoku-shi.  A  pupil  of  Shomin. 
Remarkably  skilled  in  chiselling  fig- 
ures in  relief  and  incised  on  iron, 
silver,  shibuichi,  etc. 

Nampo.  Vide  Konkwan.  This  mark 
was  used  by  one  of  the  nineteenth 
century  Kikugawa  artists  also. 

Nanjo.  1780.  A  pupil  of  Chokuzui. 
Yedo. 

Nomura.  Family  name.  Vide  Sotoku 
and  Masatoki. 

Naoaki.  Oda.  1830.  An  expert  of 
Satsuma,  highly  skilled  in  tempering 
iron  and  chiselling  designs  a  jour. 

Naofusa.  1780.  Tetsuya  Bunjiro.  A 
pupil  of  Tetsuya  Gembei.  Kyoto. 

Naofusa.  Hamano.  1800.  Art  name, 
HSkiusai.  A  skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Naokata.  Okamoto.  1780.  Chobei  the 
adopted  son  of  Tetsuya  Gembei, 
whose  name  he  afterwards  took. 
Kyoto. 

Naokatsu.  Inagawa.  1720.  Bunshiro. 
A  pupil  of  Naomasa  (Yanagawa) 
and  a  skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Naomasa.  Yanagawa.  1690.  Sanye- 
mon.  A  pupil  of  Somin.  A  cele- 
brated artist.  His  carvings  of  shishi 
( Dogs  of  Fo),  horses,  etc.,  are  splen- 
didly executed,  and  his  nanako 
grounds  are  superb.  His  work  is 
compared  by  Japanese  connoisseurs 
to  a  waterfall  among  autumn  foli- 
age. In  his  later  years  he  called 
himself  Soyen.  Yedo. 


Naomasa.  Ozaki.  1770.  Magozayemon, 
or  Kizayemon.  Art  name,  Kichosai. 
A  celebrated  expert  of  Kyoto. 

Naomichi.  1770.  Shosuke.  A  pupil  of 
Tetsuya  Dembei.  Kyoto. 

Naomichi.  Muneta.  1660.  Matabe. 
Called  also  Dochoku.  A  celebrated 
expert.  Worked  chiefly  in  Osaka. 
His  favourite  subjects  were  human 
figures  chiselled  in  the  shishi-ai-bori 
and  high-relief  styles.  Imitations 
abound,  but  are  markedly  inferior  to 
the  originals,  which  have  been  scarce 
ever  since  1770. 

Naomine.  Muneta.  1660.  Jisuke. 
Kyoto. 

Naomitsu.  Yanagawa.  1720.  Rihei.  A 
pupil  of  Naomasa,  after  whose  death 
he  took  the  name  of  Naomasa.  A 
grand  expert.  Every  stroke  of  the 
chisel  is  direct  and  strong.  His 
work  can  scarcely  be  distinguished 
from  that  of  Naomasa.  Yedo. 

Naonori.  Konakamura.  1720.  Kinchiro. 
A  pupil  of  Naomasa.  Yedo. 

Naoshige.  Kimura.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Naoshige.  Okamoto.  1770.  His  com- 
mon name  was  Tetsuya  Gembei 
(Gembei,  the  worker  in  iron),  but  as 
he  grew  famous,  men  called  him 
"  Tetsugen,"  and  sometimes  "  Tet- 
sugendo."  He  was  a  pupil  of  Haru- 
kuni,  who  was  known  as  Tetsuya 
Gembei.  Many  of  his  works  are 
marked  Shoraku,  and  some  have 
Toshiyuki,  his  early  name.  He  is 
held  to  be  one  of  the  greatest  of 
Japanese  artists.  His  method  of 
tempering  iron  and  of  producing 
patina  is  spoken  of  by  Japanese 
writers  of  the  eighteenth  century  as 
skilful  beyond  precedent.  He  worked 
also  with  consummate  expertness  in 
gold,  silver,  shakudo,  and  shibutchi. 
The  Soken  Kisho  says  that  his  work 
recalls  the  well-known  couplet :  — 
"  How  lovely  is  the  cherry  bloom 
touched  by  the  morning  sunbeams 
as  they  glance  through  the  boughs 
of  a  pine  tree!"  He  died  in  1780, 
at  a  comparatively  early  age. 

Naoshige.  Muneta.  1680.  Matashi- 
chi.  Kyoto. 

Naotaka.  1700.  A  pupil  of  Naomasa 
(Yanagawa).  Yedo. 

Naotmo.  1 780.  Ihei.  A  pupil  of  Tet- 
suya Gembei.  Kyoto. 


5° 


CHISELLERS 


Naotoshi .  Shimamura.  1 700.  A  pupil 
of  Naomasa  (Yanagawa).  Yedo. 

Naotsugu.  Shimizu.  1700.  Jinyemon. 
A  pupil  of  Naomasa  (Yanagawa). 
Yedo. 

Naoyasu.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo.  Art  name,  Kikodo. 

Naoyori.  Toyama.  1770.  Denzo.  An 
expert  of  note,  who  worked  in  Yedo, 
and  afterwards  Shinano  and  Yechi- 
zen.  Called  also  Chokuzui  (another 
pronunciation  of  Naoyori). 

Naoyoshi.  Sano.  1730.  Rihachi.  A 
pupil  of  Naonori;  highly  skilled. 
Carved  for  the  Daimiyo  Akimoto. 
Yedo. 

Naoyuki.  Yanagawa.  1700.  Koheiji. 
A  pupil  of  Naomasa.  Some  of  his 
works  are  marked  Yanagawa  Nao- 
masa. Yedo. 

Narichika.  i8th  and  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Narihisa.  Hirata.  1650.  Hikoshiro. 
Third  representative  of  the  Hirata 
family.  Yedo. 

Narikado.  Hirata.  1700.  Hikoshiro. 
Fifth  representative  of  the  Hirata 
family.  Called  also  Henjo  and 
Yeijo.  Yedo. 

Narikata.  Umetada.  1740.  Kajiye- 
mon.  Son  of  Naritsugu.  Yedo. 

Narikazu.  Hirata.  1630.  Hikoshiro. 
Second  representative  of  the  Hirata 
family.  Yedo. 

Narimasa.  Hirata.  1840.  Hikoshiro. 
Called  also  Riyoz5  and  Genjo.  Yedo. 

Narisuki.  Hirata.  1790.  Hikoshiro. 
Called  also  Ichizo.  Seventh  of  the 
Hirata  experts.  Yedo. 

Naritsugu.      Umetada.     1720.      Kajiye- 

•  mon.  A  Yedo  expert  of  the  highest 
skill.  His  carving  is  usually  on  a 
ground  of  shibuichi  with  profuse  use 
of  gold  in  the  decorative  design. 
Born  in  1696,  died  1735. 

Nariwo.  Shoami.  i8th  and  igth  cent. 
Metal-worker  of  Matsuyama  (lyo). 

Nariyuki.  Hirata.  1740.  Hikoshiro. 
Called  also  Kiuzo  and  IchizS.  The 
sixth  representative  of  the  Hirata 
family,  and  generally  considered  one 
of  the  best  of  the  Hirata  experts. 
Yedo. 

Nariyuki.  Hirata.  1880.  Hikoshiro. 
Tokyo. 

Natsuo.  (d.  1894.)  A  metal-chiseller  of 
Tokyo,  who  is  justly  reckoned  one 
of  Japan's  greatest  experts. 


Nihei.  Muneta.  1560.  The  first  mak- 
er of  nanako  grounds  in  the  Muneta 
family.  Kyoto. 

Nishimura.  Family  name.  Vide  Mit- 
suyoshi. 

Nizayemon.  Muneta.  1540.  Kyoto. 
There  was  a  second  Nizayemon 
(1580)  in  the  same  family. 

Nobuaki.  1530.  A  pupil  of  Nobuiye. 
Celebrated  for  chiselling  guards  d 
jour,  and  for  the  beauty  of  his  patina. 
Kuwana  (Ise). 

Nobuchika.  Hirano.  1810.  A  pupil 
of  Ontaiken.  Mito. 

Nobufusa.  MiySchin.  1540.  A  great 
expert.  Kai. 

Nobufusa.  Umetada.  1640.  Date  un- 
certain. Sei-no-j5.  Supposed  to 
have  been  a  pupil  of  one  of  the  early 
Kuwamura  artists.  A  fine  expert. 
Kaga. 

Nobuhide.  Sumitomo.  1750.  Senno- 
suke.  A  pupil  of  Masanobu  (Zenji). 
Yedo. 

Nobuhiro.  Miyochin.  1560.  A  great 
expert.  Kamakura. 

Nobuiye.  Miyochin.  1520.  One  of 
the  Nochino  Sansaku  (Three  Later 
Masters)  of  the  Miyochin  family. 
Worked  principally  as  an  armourer, 
but  also  chiselled  guards.  Joshiu. 

Nobuiye.  Fujiwara.  1670.  A  guard- 
maker  of  Aki.  His  work  was  in 
the  pierced  style,  and  he  is  cele- 
brated for  guards  in  the  Mokko 
shapes  with  omodaka  leaves  chiselled 
a  jour.  His  pieces  are  constantly 
confounded  with  those  of  Miyochin 
Nobuiye. 

Nobuiye.  1700.  A  guard-maker  of 
Kishiu.  Not  a  good  expert,  but  his 
work  is  often  mistaken  by  ignorant 
collectors  for  that  of  Miyochin 
Nobuiye. 

Nobukatsu.  Kikuchi.  1730.  Seijiro. 
Art  name,  Gitoken  and  Soriuken. 
A  pupil  of  Naokatsu  (Inagawa)  and 
an  expert  of  great  skill.  Yedo. 

Nobumasa.  Okada.  1690.  Zenzaye- 
mon.  A  grandson  of  Meiju  Ume- 
tada, who  changed  his  family  name 
Okada.  Hagi. 

Nobusada.  1530.  A  pupil  of  Nobuiye 
(Miyochin)  and  a  skilled  expert. 
Joshiu. 

Nobushige.  Okada.  1700.  Hikozaye- 
mon.  Hagi. 

Nobutaka.        Nara.         1730.        Ihachi. 


51 


CHISELLERS 


Younger  brother  of  the  celebrated 
Masanaga,  whose  name  he  some- 
times used.  Yedo. 

Nobutatsu.  Hayashi.  igth  cent. 
Skilled  metal-worker  of  Yedo.  Art 
name,  Tokai. 

Nobutsugu.  Yoshioka.  1710.  Choye- 
mon.  Called  also  Soin.  A  great 
expert.  According  to  the  Soken 
Kisho  he  was  called  Munenori. 
Yedo. 

Nobutsune.  Nakai.  1620.  Bunyemon. 
The  first  of  the  Nakai  family  who 
worked  in  Hagi,  Nagato  province, 
and  therefore  the  originator  of  the 
celebrated  ChSshiu  guards  (iron). 

Nobuyasu.  Saotomo.  1530.  A  pupil 
of  Miyochin  Nobuiye.  Worked  in 
Mito,  where  for  many  generations 
his  family  enjoyed  the  reputation  of 
skilled  armourers. 

Nobuyoshi.  Washizu.  igthcent.  Skilled 
metal-worker  of  Yedo.  Obtained 
the  art  title  of  Hogen. 

Nobuyoshi.  Miyochin.  1550.  A  cele- 
brated metal-worker.  Kamakura. 
Received  the  title  of  Hokkyo,  and 
afterwards  of  Hogen. 

Noriaki.  Noda.  _i8i5-  Shirobei.  Called 
himself  Saiyoshin.  A  skilled  carver 
and  an  able  painter.  Yedo. 

Norikuni.  Miyochin.  1560.  A  well- 
known  expert.  Kozuke. 

Norikyo.    Goto.   1650.  Shichibei.   Kaga. 

Norimasa.  Nakagawa.  1750.  A  pupil 
of  Noriyuki  (Hamano).  Yedo. 

Norinao.  Muneta.  1640.  Matabei. 
Art  name,  Doki.  A  celebrated  ex- 
pert. He  invented  a  special  and 
particularly  difficult  style  of  nanako 
called  daimiyo-nanako,  in  which  the 
lines  of  nanako  alternate  with  lines 
of  polished  ground.  He  is  supposed 
to  be  the  only  expert  who  succeeded 
thoroughly  in  such  work.  Kyoto. 

Norinobu.  Hamano.  1790.  Kimbei. 
A  skilled  artist.  Used  two  of  the 
art  names  employed  by  Shozui,  viz., 
Otsuriuken  and  Miboku. 

Norisada.  Shoami.  1500.  A  Kyoto 
expert.  His  era  is  uncertain,  and  he 
is  sometimes  spoken  of  as  the  second 
founder  of  the  Shoami  family,  though 
that  position  is  more  commonly  as- 
signed to  Takatsune  (q.  v.). 

Norishige.  Miyochin.  1 560.  A  skilled 
expert.  Kozuke. 

Noriyori.      Hamano.     1750.     Chiugoro. 


A  pupil  of  Shozui,  and  a  celebrated 
expert.  A  carving  by  him  on  the 
stone  gate  of  Tentoku-ji  cemetery  of 
the  Unshiu  Daimiyo  is  one  of  the 
finest  works  of  the  kind  in  Japan. 
It  represents  the  sixteen  Disciples  of 
Buddha,  and  was  designed  by  the 
painter,  Sasawa  Hoin.  Yedo. 

Noriyuki.  Hamano.  1740.  A  pupil  of 
Shozui  (Masayuki),  but  his  style  re- 
sembles that  of  Joi.  An  artist  of 
the  highest  skill.  Yedo. 

Noriyuki.  Nakamura.  1770.  Gensuke. 
A  pupil  of  the  celebrated  Nakahara 
Yukinori.  Nagato. 

Ogiya.  Katsuhira.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Seiriyo- 
ken. 

Ohori.  Masatoshi.  igthcent.  (d.  1897.) 
A  celebrated  Uchimonoshi  (metal- 
hammerer)  of  Tokyo. 

Oishi.  Akichika.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Okada.  Setsuga.  Present  day.  A  highly 
skilled  metal-chiseller  of  Tokyo. 
Has  carved  sword-furniture  for  the 
Emperor,  and  also  diadems  for  the 
Emperor  and  Empress. 

Okando.     Vide  Teruhiko  (Murata). 

Okazawa.  Yeiseuke.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Choshiu. 

Okimichi.  Tokioka.  1680.  Tosuke. 
Kyoto. 

Okinari.  Horiye.  1750.  Yajiuro.  Art 
name,  Isshiken.  A  pupil  of  the  cele- 
brated Shozui.  An  artist  of  the  first 
rank.  Yedo. 

Okiyoshi.  1770.  Horiiye.  Yaichiro. 
Son  of  Okinari,  and  a  skilled  artist. 
Served  the  feudal  chief  of  Awa  and 
worked  in  Yedo. 

Okutsugu.  Yoshioka.  1670.  Hide-no- 
suke.  Yedo. 

Onishi.  Hideo  Naomura.  igth  cent: 
Metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Ontaiken.      Vide  Motochika  (Fujita). 

Osaki.  Toshiaki.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Otsuki.     Family  name.      Vide  KwSrin. 

Otsuriuken.  Vide  Masayori,  Kaneyori, 
Norinobu,  and  Masanobu. 

Rakurakusai.      Vide  Katsuyoshi. 

Rakusuido.      Vide  Tsunenari. 

Ranzan.      Vide  Tsuneyuki. 

Reijo.    Goto.   1650.   Mitsuchika.   Kyoto. 

Rengetsutei.     Vide  Toshikage. 

Renjo.  Goto.  1650.  Tenth  of  the 
great  Goto  Masters. 


CHISELLERS 


Rifudo.     Vide  Masayuki. 

Rifudo.      Vide  Masayori  and  Masanobu. 

Rinfudo.     Vide  Masaharu. 

Rinjo.    Goto.    1650.    Mitsuzane.   Kyoto. 

Rinsendo.      Vide  Mitsumasa. 

Risai.  Motokawa.  1780.  A  Kyoto 
expert  of  the  highest  skill. 

Risho.  Iwamoto.  1800.  Kinjiro. 
Called  himself  also  Toshimasa. 
Yedo. 

Risuke.  Uyemura.  1720.  A  pupil  of 
Munemine.  Kyoto. 

Ritsujo.  Goto.  1600.  Mitsuyori.  Ky- 
oto. 

Ritsumei.      Vide  Koretsune. 

Riujo.   Goto.    1650.    Mitsusada.    Kyoto. 

Riumin.  igth  cent.  (d.  1863.)  A  splen- 
did metal-chiseller  of  Yedo,  who  pro- 
duced not  only  sword-furniture  but 
all  kinds  of  objects.  Art  name, 
Shounsai. 

Riurin-sai.     Vide  Hidetomo. 

Riusen.  Fujiki.  1660.  Ypjibei  or 
Shigenori.  Pupil  of  Goto  Renj5 
and  father  of  Masafusa  (Fujiki). 
Kyoto. 

Riushatei.      Vide  Takeaki. 

Riu-un-sai.      Vide  Tomochika  (Omori). 

Riu-u-sai.      Vide  Teruhide  (Omori). 

Riyokwan.  Iwamoto.  1750.  Yohachi. 
Teacher  of  the  celebrated  Konkwan, 
and  himself  a  skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Riyonenshi.  Yasuyobi.  igth  cent. 
Metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Riyoyei.  Iwamoto.  1770.  Suzuki 
Kinyemon.  Pupil  of  Iwamoto  Kon- 
kwan. Remarkably  good  at  carving 
fish  designs.  Yedo. 

RiySyen.      Vide  Masayuki. 

Riyoyu.      Vide  Morikatsu  and  Morihiro. 

Riyozo.      Vide  Narimasa. 

Rizui.      Vide  Toshiyori. 

Rokuyemon.  Saito.  1800.  A  skilled 
inlayer  of  Sendai. 

Saburoyemon.  Yamanaka.  1630.  Pupil 
of  Goto  Yekijo,  and  a  grand  artist. 
Kyoto. 

Saburozayemon.  Kurose.  1630.  Pupil 
of  Goto  Seijo.  Kyoto. 

Saburozayemon.  Inouye.  1650.  Founded 
the  house  called  Sammon-ji-ya,  and 
developed  an  original  style  of  carv- 
ing called  Oike-bori,  from  the  name 
of  the  street  (Oike-dori)  in  which  he 
lived.  Kyoto. 

Sadachika.  Nogi.  1790.  Mohei.  A 
pupil  of  Terusada  (Yamamoto). 
Yedo. 


Sadahide.  1840.  Yasokichi.  A  pupil 
of  Jikyokusai.  Yedo. 

Sadahiro.  Shoami.  1 560.  Worked  in 
Owari,  following  the  style  of  Yama- 
yoshibfei. 

Sadahisa.  Morita.  1810.  Sogoro. 
Called  himself  Tosuiken.  A  pupil 
of  Chikuzanken,  and  a  skilled  ex- 
pert. Mito. 

Sadahisa.  Takahashi.  1800.  Masabei. 
Called  himself  ShSsensai.  A  pupil 
of  Chikuzanken  and  a  skilled  ex- 
pert. Mito. 

Sadakage.     1650.     Shinyemon.     Kaga. 

Sadakatsu.  Taneda.  1630.  Kichinojo. 
A  pupil  of  Goto  Yen  jo  and  a  skilled 
expert.  Kaga. 

Sadakatsu.  igth.  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo. 

Sadasuke.  Inuma.  1800.  A  Mito  ex- 
pert, pupil  of  Chikuzanken. 

Sadatoki.  1630.  Heihachi.  A  skilled 
expert  who  worked  originally  in 
Fushima,  and  moved  to  Kaga  in  the 
year  1625.  He  received  a  grant  of 
three  hundred  koku  of  rice  annually 
from  the  feudal  chief  of  Kaga. 

Sadatsugu.     1680.    Kichirokuro.    Kaga. 

Sadatsugu.  Yoshioka.  1780.  Kichi- 
jiro.  Yedo. 

Sadatsugu.  1800.  A  pupil  of  Sada- 
chika (Nogi).  Yedo. 

Sadayoshi.  Fujita.  1840.  Anshi.  Called 
himself  Kingenshi.  Yedo. 

Sadayoshi.  1770.  A  pupil -of  Nagat- 
sune.  A  skilled  expert.  Yamashina 
(Yamashiro). 

Sadayuki.  1840.  Kinjiro.  A  pupil  of 
Jikyokusai.  Yedo. 

Saihaku.      Vide  Masayoshi. 

Saijiro.  Goto.  1630.  Kaga.  (Vide 
Yoshisada.) 

Saika-an.  Vide  Mitsuyuki.  (Kiku- 
oka.) 

Saiyoshin.      Vide  Noriaki. 

Sakuma.  1600.  Date  uncertain.  Noth- 
ing is  known  of  this  expert,  but 
some  very  fine  specimens  of  iron 
guards  bearing  his  signature  are 
extant. 

Sakuyemon.  Chiyo.  1 700.  A  pupil  of 
Kuisuke  of  Tsuyama.  Succeeded 
by  his  son  of  the  same  name. 

Sakuyemon.  Chiyo.  1 700.  There  were 
two  artists  of  this  name,  father  and 
son.  They  worked  at  Tsuyama. 

Sammonji-ya.  Vide  Saburozayemon 
and  Kuhei. 


53 


CHISELLERS 


Sano.  Naotsune.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Sano.  Takachika.  Present  day.  A 
metal-chiseller  of  Tokyo. 

Saotomo.      Vide  Nobuyasu. 

Sasaki.  Family  name.  Vide  Shigekata, 
Tadatsura,  etc. 

Sato.  Yoshi.  i Qth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Seibei.  ShSami.  1760.  Worked  at  Ni- 
honmatsu  in  Aizu. 

Seijiro.  Goto.  1630.  A  great  expert; 
but  not  well  known.  Kaga. 

Seijo.    Goto.    1630.    Mitsunaga.    Kyoto. 

Seimin.  Murata.  1820.  Sozaburo.  A 
celebrated  chiseller,  but  chiefly  re- 
markable for  his  skill  in  casting 
bronzes.  Yedo. 

Seiriyoken.      Vide  Ogiya  Katsuhira. 

Seiroku.  Vide  Masanaga  (Nara)  and 
Masachika  (Nara). 

Seiseisai.     Vide  Masatoki. 

Seishichi.  ShSami.  1840.  A  guard- 
maker  of  Osaka. 

Seishinken.      Vide  Mototomo. 

Seiunsai.      Vide  Motoshige  (Mimura). 

Seiunsai.      Vide  Taki  Yeiji. 

Seiunsha.      Vide  Toho. 

Seizayemon.  Goto.  1670.  An  artist 
of  remarkable  skill.  Kaga. 

Seki.  Yoshinori.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Sekibun.  Shoami.  1820.  Shichiroye- 
mon.  Art  name,  Yurosai.  Worked 
at  Shonai  in  Dewa. 

Sekiguchi.  Ichiya.  igth  cent,  (d.  1895.) 
A  skilled  metal-chiseller  of  Tokyo. 
One  of  the  last  of  the  carvers  of 
sword -furniture. 

Sekijo.  Goto.  1570.  Mitsutsune.  Son 
of  Goto  TakujS.  Kyoto. 

Sekijoken.    Vide  Motozumi  (Yasuyama). 

Senjo.     Goto.    1620.    Mitsukyo.    Kyoto. 

Sensai.      Vide  Atsuoki. 

Senshichi.  Nishiyama.  1640.  A  pupil 
of  Goto  Yenjo.  Kyoto. 

Senshisai.      Vide  Shoami. 

Senyushi.     Vide  Yoshitsune. 

Setsuju.  1780.  A  skilled  expert  of 
Mito,  said  to  have  been  connected 
with  the  Miyochin  family. 

Setsuya.  igth  cent.  Art  name  of  a 
Yedo  metal-worker. 

Setsuzan.      Vide  Nagatsune. 

Shiatsu.  Shinji.  Present  day.  Metal- 
sculptor.  Pupil  of  Unno  ShSmin. 

Shichibei.  1700.  A  renowned  inlayer. 
His  skill  was  so  great  that  the  name 


Zoshichi  came  to  be  applied  to  par- 
ticularly fine  damascening.  Kyoto. 

Shichirobei.  Shoami.  1710.  A  pupil 
of  Katsusaburo.  Worked  at  Tsuya- 
ma  in  Mimasaka. 

Shigeaki.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo. 

Shigechika.  Machida.  1740.  KinzS. 
A  pupil  of  SSyo,  and  a  skilled  ex- 
pert. His  father,  also  called  KinzS, 
worked  in  the  same  way  but  with 
less  skill.  Yedo. 

Shigechika.  Yokoya.  1720.  Called 
also  Machida.  Kuizo. 

Shigeharu.  Nara.  1710.  A  pupil  of 
the  first  Toshinaga.  Common  name, 
Jiubei. 

Shigehiro.  Yoshioka.  1580.  Morot- 
sugu.  Called  also  Sotaku.  He  had 
the  title  at  first  of  Buzan-no-suke 
and  afterwards  of  Inaba-no-suke. 
Founded  the  Yoshioka  family.  Yedo. 
With  regard  to  the  title  Inaba-no- 
suke,  which  is  found  on  some  of  the 
works  of  the  Yoshioka  family  and 
not  on  others,  the  explanation  is  that 
its  use  in  such  a  manner  was  inter- 
dicted when  a  member  of  the  noble 
family  of  Inaba  happened  to  hold 
the  office  of  Goroju.  The  Yoshioka 
family  worked  for  the  Yedo  Court 
and  had  a  yearly  allowance  of  two 
hundred  koku  of  rice  and  eighteen 
rations. 

Shigekata.  Sasaki.  1630.  Common 
name  not  known.  A  Kyoto  expert 
of  some  repute. 

Shigekuni.  Miyochin.  1560.  A  great 
expert  of  Kozuke. 

Shigemichi.  Shoami.  1760.  A  Kyoto 
expert,  celebrated  for  chiselling 
guards  with  clam-shell  decoration  cl 
jour. 

Shigemitsu.  Omori.  1710.  Shiroye- 
mon  or  Bunshiro.  He  also  called 
himself  Kinriuzan  Fumoto.  A  cele- 
brated artist ;  generally  regarded  as 
the  founder  of  the  Omori  family,  but 
his  father,  Shirobei,  a  Samurai  of 
Odawara,  was  the  first  carver  in  that 
family.  Yedo. 

Shigemitsu.     Nara.     1720.     Yedo. 

Shigemitsu.  i8th  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Pupil  of  Nara  Yasuchika. 

Shigemoto.  Kubo.  1780.  Commonly 
known  as  Tetsuya  Kimbei.  A  pupil 
of  the  celebrated  Tetsuya  Dembei, 
and  himself  very  famous.  Many  of 


54 


CHISELLERS 


his  works  are  marked  Takenori. 
Kyoto. 

Shigemune.  Shoami.  1840.  An  ex- 
pert of  Yedo. 

Shigemune.  Umetada.  1400.  Known 
as  Hiko  no  Shin.  Said  to  be  the  nine- 
teenth representative  of  the  Umetada 
family,  but  probably  identical  with 
the  first  Shigeyoshi  (vide).  He  re- 
ceived the  name  Umetada  from  the 
Emperor  Shoko. 

Shigenaga.  1680.  Shinshichi.  Suc- 
cessor of  Tomotsugu  Saburoyemon. 
Kaga. 

Shigenaga.  Yoshioka.  1640.  Rizaye- 
mon.  Afterwards  called  Sorin  and 
Shigemoto.  Yedo. 

Shigenobu.  1780.  Kitaro.  A  pupil  of 
Tetsuya  Dembei. 

Shigenori.  Miyochin.  1 560.  An  ex- 
pert of  Kozuke. 

Shigesada.  Shoami.  1690.  A  pupil 
of  Goto  Tsujo.  Worked  at  Akita 
in  Dewa. 

Shigesada.  Yoshioka.  1840.  The 
ninth  representative  of  the  Yoshioka 
family.  Yedo. 

Shigetaka.  Hirata.  1680.  Hikoshiro. 
Fourth  representative  of  the  Hirata 
family.  Yedo. 

Shigetsugu.  Yoshioka.  1620.  A  mem- 
ber of  the  noble  Fujiwara  family. 
Had  at  first  the  title  of  Bun-gon-no- 
suke.  Also  called  Sojii.  He  be- 
came carver  to  the  Court  of  the 
Yedo  Shogun  in  the  year  1600,  and 
died  in  1653.  In  the  temple  Zojo-ji, 
at  Shiba  (Tokyo),  there  is  a  stone 
carving  by  him  representing  the 
entry  of  Buddha  into  Nirvana.  The 
inscription  shows  that  it  was  carved 
in  his  73d  year. 

Shigetsugu.  Iwai.  1650.  Moyemon. 
A  pupil  of  Goto  Renjo.  Kyoto. 

Shigetsugu.  1700.  Kihashiro.  Son 
of  Shigenaga  Shinshichi.  Kaga. 

Shigetsugu.  Nara.  1720.  A  pupil  of 
Toshinaga  the  second. 

Shigetsune.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Choshiu. 

Shigetsune.  Shoami.  1720.  Worked 
at  Wakamatsu  in  Aizu. 

Shigetsune.  Sh5ami.  1650.  An  expert 
of  Akita  in  Dewa. 

Shigeyasu.  Inouye.  1740.  Bunjiro. 
A  celebrated  expert.  Kyoto. 

Shigeyoshi.  Umetada.  1400.  A  cele- 
brated sword-smith,  who  is  said  to 


have  made  guards  for  the  Ashikaga 
Shogun,  Yoshimitsu,  the  great  art 
patron  and  dilettante  of  mediaeval 
Japan.  Kyoto. 

Shigeyoshi.  Umetada.  1560.  Hiko- 
jiro.  He  also  used  the  name  Miyoju 
for  marking  his  pieces.  An  expert 
of  very  high  order.  He  forged 
sword-blades  which  are  held  in  the 
greatest  esteem,  and  made  guards 
and  other  mounts  with  equal  skill. 
He  was  employed  by  Yoshioka,  the 
last  of  the  Ashikaga  Shoguns,  by 
Hideyoshi,  the  Taiko,  and  by  Hidet- 
sugu.  He  worked  from  1 550  to  1600. 
Kyoto. 

Shigeyoshi.  Umetada.  1630.  Hiko- 
jiro.  He  marked  his  pieces  Meishin, 
or  more  commonly,  lyetaka.  He 
was  counted  a  great  sword-smith  as 
well  as  a  skilled  carver,  and  received 
from  the  government  the  honorary 
title  of  Hokkyo.  He  worked  in 
Kyoto  and  Yedo,  and  it  is  supposed 
that  the  various  provincial  artists 
calling  themselves  by  the  family 
name  of  Umetada  were  either  pupils 
of  his  or  descended  from  his  pupils. 

Shigeyuki.  Shoami.  1820.  One  of 
the  Yedo  branch  of  the  Shoami 
family. 

Shiko.  Shoami.  1700.  An  expert  of 
Kyoto  who  worked  in  the  style  of 
Soden. 

Shimada.  Family  name.  Vide  Masa- 
fusa  and  Masanao. 

Shinjo.      Vide  Mitsuyoshi  (Goto). 

Shinryo.      Vide  Koretsune. 

Shinshichi.  1730.  A  skilled  expert  of 
Osaka,  commonly  known  as  Hori- 
mono-ya  Shinshichi  (Shinshichi,  the 
carver).  His  favorite  design  was  a 
fishing  rod  and  river  trout,  which  he 
chiselled  beautifully. 

Shintoken.     Vide  Mitsuyoshi. 

Shijun.      Vide  Masayori. 

Shiratoshi.  Iwamoto.  1 9th  cent.  Skilled 
metal-worker  of  Yedo.  Used  the 
marks  Kwanri  and  JSunsai. 

Shirobei.  Muneta.  1650.  Kyoto  and 
Gifu  (Mino). 

Shisuido.      Vide  Kakuriyo. 

Shiuko.  i Qth  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo. 

Shoami.      Vide  Masanori. 

Shobei.  Goto.  1570.  A  pupil  of  Goto 
Tokujo.  Lived  at  various  places, 
but  chiefly  Noto  and  Kyoto. 


55 


CHISELLERS 


Shogoro.  1790.  A  pupil  of  Tashichi 
(Akao),  and  a  skilled  worker  in  the 
Akao  style.  Yedo. 

Shoho.  Iwamoto.  1830.  Buto  Gem- 
pachi  or  Masakatsu.  An  expert  of 
considerable  note.  Many  of  his 
pieces  are  marked  Konkwan-mon, 
i.e.,  pupil  of  Konkwan.  Yedo. 

Shojo.  Goto.  1610.  Mitsumasa. 
Kyoto. 

Shojo.  Goto.  1530.  Younger  brother 
of  Goto  Sojo.  Celebrated  as  a 
maker  of  nanako  grounds.  Kyoto. 

Shoju.  Tamagawa.  1760.  Saburohei. 
A  pupil  of  Tsuju,  and  a  great  expert. 
Yedo  and  Mito. 

Shokatei.      Vide  Katsutane. 

Shomin.  igth  cent.  A  celebrated 
metal-worker  of  Tokyo,  now  living ; 
art  name,  Senshisai. 

Shosensai.      Vide  Sadahisa  (Takahashi). 

Shotayu.      Vide  Masanao. 

Shoyei.  1640.  He  called  himself 
Johaku.  A  pupil  of  Jochiku,  and  a 
skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Shoyei.      Vide  Johaku. 

Shozayemon.  Yoshioka.  1630.  Sec- 
ond son  of  Shigetsugu.  Carver  to 
the  Shogun's  Court  in  Yedo. 

Shozayemon.  Nomura.  1530.  A  pupil 
of  Goto  Shojo.  Kyoto. 

Shizui.      Vide  Masayori. 

Shuchin.  Furukawa.  1820.  Son  of 
Jochin  and  a  skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Shuhosai.      Vide  Masayori. 

Shu  jo.    Goto.    1620.    Mitsutoyo.    Kyoto. 

Shujo.  Goto.  1690.  Mitsutaka. 
Kyoto. 

Shumin.  igth  cent.  (d.  1866.)  A 
highly  skilled  metal-chiseller  of 
Tokyo. 

Shungetsu.      Vide  Haruaki. 

Shun  jo.  Goto.  1640.  Mitsunaga. 
Kyoto. 

Shunshodo.      Vide  Konkwan. 

Shunzui.      Vide  Haruyori. 

Shuraku.  igth  cent.  (d.  1860.)  A 
great  metal-chiseller  of  Yedo  :  pupil 
of  Temmin  and  of  Shugetsu. 
Many  beautiful  specimens  of  his 
work  are  extant  in  sword-furniture, 
pouch-clasps,  and  chains  (kuda-gus- 
ari),  etc.  He  used  the  marks  TaidS 
Shuraku,  and  Shuunsai  Shuraku. 

Shuzui.      Vide  Hideyori. 

Sochi.  Yokoya.  1640.  Tsugusada. 
Yedo. 

Soden.      Kitagawa.      1649.      Originally 


called  Hidenori.  Celebrated  as  a 
maker  of  iron  sword-guards,  elabo- 
rately decorated  with  figure  designs 
chiselled  ct  jour.  He  used  the  mark 
Soheishi,  and  this  being  commonly 
misread  "  mogarashi,"  the  guards  of 
Soden's  type  are  known  as  mogara- 
shi-tsuba.  They  are  exceptionally 
large,  and  generally  have  the  edge 
curved.  He  belonged  to  the  ShSami 
family,  according  to  some  authori- 
ties, and  to  the  Kitagawa  according 
to  others.  Worked  at  Hikone,  and 
originated  the  Hikone  style. 

Soheishi.     Vide  Soden. 

Soho.      Vide  Munemine. 

Soin.  Yoshioka.  His  name  is  some- 
times pronounced  Munenori.  A 
great  expert.  Yedo. 

Soin.       Vide  Nobutsugu. 

Sbjo.  Goto.  1520.  The  second  of  the 
great  Goto  Masters.  Kyoto. 

Soju.      Vide  Shigetsugu  (Yoshioka) 

Sdju.      Vide  Genchin. 

Sokan.     Vide  Toshimitsu  (Nara). 

Sokei.      Vide  Munetsugu. 

Soken.  Ozaki.  1630.  Jiubei.  A 
pupil  of  Goto  Teijo.  Kyoto. 

Soken.     Vide  Muneaki. 

Sokuseui.     Goto.     1660.     Kyto. 

Sokwan.  Iwamoto.  1750.  Kohachi. 
Yedo.  A  great  expert.  (Hisjiame 
is  also  pronounced  Munehiro.) 

Somin.  Yokoya.  1760.  Tomatsugu. 
Grandson  of  the  great  Somin.  A 
skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Somin.  Kiriusai.  1770.  Representa- 
tive of  the  fourth  generation  of  the 
Somin. 

Somin.  Yokoya.  1710.  Tomotsune, 
or  Jihei.  Art  name,  To-an.  One  of 
the  most  celebrated  experts  of  any 
era.  Worked  from  designs  furnished 
by  the  painters  Tanyu  and  Hana- 
busa  Itcho.  Much  of  his  finest 
work  was  in  the  Kebori  (hair-line 
engraving)  style,  and  he  thus  came 
to  be  known  as  the  originator  of  the 
Ye-fu-kebori  (engraved  pictures).  A 
Japanese  connoisseur  of  the  eigh- 
teen century  says  that  the  impres- 
sion produced  by  Somin's  work  is 
that  of  wooded  hills  reflected  in  the 
blue  waters  of  a  placid  lake  as  the 
evening  moon  rises  over  their  sum- 
mit. True  name,  Tomotsune.  Yedo. 
Many  of  his  pieces  are  marked 
Tonan. 


CHISELLERS 


Sonjo.  Another  name  for  Goto 
Shojo. 

Sonobe.  Yoshiteru.  iSth  and  igth 
cent.  Metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Sonobe.  Yoshitsugu.  igth  cent. 
Metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Sori.  Yokoya.  1710.  A  pupil  of 
Somin.  Yedo. 

Sorin.      Vide  Shigenaga. 

Soriusai.      Vide  Yoshinori. 

Sotei.  Vide  Toshimune  (Nara).  The 
name  Sotei  is  sometimes  pronounced 
Munesada. 

Sotetsu.  Fujinaka.  1600.  A  pupil  of 
Goto  Yeijo.  Kyoto. 

Sotoku.  Nomura.  1580.  Pupil  of 
Goto  Takujo.  Founded  the  Nomura 
family.  Kyoto. 

Soyei.  Iwamoto.  1800.  Heijiro. 
Yedo. 

S5yen.     Vide  Naomasa. 

Soyo.  Yokoya.  1740.  Tomosada. 
Art  name,  Kiriusai.  Son  of  Somin, 
and  almost  as  skilled  as  his  father. 
Yedo. 

S6yo.  Yokoya.  1630.  Founder  of  the 
Yokoya  family.  Worked  for  the 
Court  in  Yedo.  True  name,  Mori- 
tsugu.  Yedo.  A  celebrated  artist. 
Had  a  yearly  allowance  of  two  hun- 
dred bales  of  rice  and  twenty  rations 
from  the  Yedo  Court. 

S6yu.      Vide  Toshiharu  (Nara). 

S6yu.      Vide  Teruaki  (Yokiya). 

Sugiyama.  Toshiyoshi.  i8th  and  igth 
cent.  Metal-worker  of  Mito. 

Sukesaburo.  Umemura.  1640.  A 
pupil  of  Tomihisa  (Kawamura),  and 
a  skilled  expert.  Kaga. 

Sukeyori.  1800.  Commonly  called  Jo- 
zui.  A  pupil  of  Tozui.  Yedo. 

Sumpei.  Ichiju.  Present  day.  Metal- 
sculptor.  Pupil  of  Unno  Shomin. 

Sunagawa.  Masayoshi.  igth  cent. 
Metal-worker  of  Yedo.  Art  name, 
Shohakudo. 

Suzuki.  Gensuke.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  uchimono-shi  of  Tokyo.  Art 
names,  Reiunsai  and  Suzu-gen. 
Seven  generations  of  this  family 
lived  and  worked  in  Yedo  (Tokyo), 
the  seventh,  Suzuki  Gensuke  (q.  v.), 
being  the  present  representative. 
The  first  six  manufactured  chiefly 
metal  pen-boxes  for  the  girdle,  (ya- 
tate),  incense-boxes  (kogo),  etc.  They 
used  the  mark  Genshin. 

Suzuki.    Katsuyasu.     igth  cent.    Metal- 


worker of  Yedo.    Son  of  Ogiya  Kat- 
suhisa. 

Tadahira.  1630.  Saburohei.  Went 
from  Fushimi  to  Kaga. 

Tadakyo.  1650.  Shotaro  ;  son  of  Tada- 
hira Saburobei.  Kaga. 

Tadamichi.  1700.  A  Kyoto  expert. 
Family  unknown. 

Tadashige.  Ishikawa.  1820.  Jiujiro. 
A  pupil  of  Tadatsugu  (Yoshioka). 
Yedo.  . 

Tadasuke.  Tsuji.  1770.  Used  the 
mark  Teisuido.  A  highly  skilled  ex- 
pert. Worked  in  Omi. 

Tadatsugu.  Yoshioka.  1800.  Daijiro. 
Yedo.  A  great  expert. 

Tadatsugu.  Shoami.  1670.  A  Kyoto 
expert. 

Tadatsune.  Wakabayashi.  1820.  Hi- 
koshiro.  A  pupil  of  Tadatsugu  (Yo- 
shioka). Yedo. 

Tadatsura.  Susaki.  1680.  Saburohei. 
Osaka. 

Tadayasu.  1750.  A  curio-dealer  of 
Yedo.  Ito  Saburohei  by  name,  had 
a  quantity  of  fine  sword-mounts 
carved  with  the  inscription  Tadaya- 
su, a  combination  of  ideographs 
corresponding  to  his  name.  The 
work  is  in  the  style  of  Hamano 
Noriyuki. 

Tadayori.  Hamano.  1790.  Samuro- 
suke.  A  skilled  expert.  Generally 
known  as  T5zui  (another  pronuncia- 
tion of  Tadayori).  Yedo. 

Tadayoshi.  Nomura.  1740.  Hanshichi. 
Yedo. 

Tadayoshi.  A  pupil  of  Tsu  Jimpo. 
Yedo. 

Tadayoshi.  1750.  Common  name  un- 
known and  date  approximate.  Speci- 
mens bearing  his  name  are  some- 
times found.  The  ground  is  pol- 
ished, and  the  design  is  an  official 
cap  (kammuri}  and  an  umbrella 
chiselled  in  relief.  The  same  name 
is  found  on  guards  evidently  by  a 
different  hand. 

Tadayoshi.  Nomura.  1750.  Commonly 
known  as  Tsuji  Heihachi.  A  pupil 
of  Tsu  Jimpo  and  a  skilled  expert. 
Yedo. 

Tadayoshi.  Akao.  1840.  A  pupil  of 
the  Akao  family,  and  a  skilled  guard- 
maker.  Yedo. 

Tadayuki.  Asagawa.  1820.  Miyagoro. 
A  pupil  of  Tadatsugu  (Yoshioka). 
Yedo. 


57 


CHISELLERS 


Taguchi.  Katsuo.  Present  day.  Metal- 
sculptor.  Pupil  of  Unno  Shomin. 

Taijo.     Goto.     1660.     Kyoto. 

Taijo.     Goto.     1660.     Mitsuhisa. 

Taizanken.     Vide  Yenju. 

Takaaki.  Ishiguro.  1850.  '  Mankichi. 
Yedo. 

Takafusa.  Uyemura.  1740.  Kuhei.  A 
great  expert.  Kyoto. 

Takahiro.  Yasui.  1690.  Heiyemon. 
His  house  was  called  Kashiwaya, 
and  he  marked  his  works  Chiriuken. 
A  skilled  artist.  Kyoto. 

Takaiishi.  Shigeyoshi.  Present  day. 
(b.  1838.)  Originally  a  chiseller  of 
sword-furniture,  renowned  for  his 
skill  in  cutting  kiri-mon  (i.e.,  designs 
on  the  surface  of  sword  blades),  but 
now  celebrated  for  the  production  of 
iron  dragons,  craw-fish,  crabs,  etc., 
with  universal  joints  after  the  man- 
ner of  Miyochin  Yoshihisa.  Many 
of  his  productions  have  been  sold  as 
genuine  examples  of  Miyochin's 
work.  His  hawks,  eagles,  etc.,  chis- 
elled in  silver  and  inlaid  with  gold 
are  among  the  finest  specimens  of 
metal  work  ever  produced. 

Takakiyo.  Sakawa.  1800.  Gensaburo. 
Called  himself  Joyeiken.  A  skilled 
artist.  Mito. 

Takakusai.      Vide  Yoshihisa. 

Takamitsu.  Shoami.  1620.  Founder 
of  the  Aizu  branch  of  the  Shoami 
family.  Marked  his  work  "  Matsu- 
mura  Genshichiro."  Worked  at 
Wakamatsu. 

Takanaga.  Yasui.  1670.  Torabei.  A 
pupil  of  Yasui  Yoshinaga.  Used 
the  mark  Fuko.  Kyoto. 

Takasil.  Yeiji.  I9th  cent.  Skilled 
metal-worker  of  Yedo.  Art  name, 
Horiuken. 

Takatsune.  Sh5ami.  1480.  Jirohachi. 
A  Kyoto  expert,  who  resumed  the 
profession  of  ornamental  metal- 
worker commenced  by  his  ancestor 
Masanori  (vide),  and  is  consequently 
known  as  the  second  founder  (chiuko 
kaizari)  of  the  Shoami  family. 

Takeakira.  Masabayashi.  1800.  Date 
uncertain.  Personal  name,  Zusho, and 
art  name,  Riushatei.  A  skilled  expert 
of  Kyoto.  A  man  of  noble  family. 

Takechika.  Sano.  igth  cent.  A  skilled 
metal-worker  of  Yedo.  Used  the 
marks  Issai  Hoshu  Gendo-jin  and 
Shuki  Hozan  Issai. 


Takemitsu.  1760.  Uhei.  A  pupil  of 
Tetsuya  Dembei.  Kyoto. 

Takenori.     Vide  Shigemoto  (Kubo). 

Takenori.  Okamoto.  1780.  Uhei. 
Kyoto. 

Takenori.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Yedo. 

Takeshima.    Family  name.    Vide  Ichiju. 

Takeshita.  ShSju.  Present  day.  Metal- 
sculptor.  Pupil  of  Unno  Shomin. 

Takeyama.  Mahiko.  Present  day.  A 
metal-chiseller  of  Osaka. 

Taki.  Yeiji.  igth  cent.  Skilled  metal- 
worker of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Sei-un- 
sai. 

Takujo.  Goto.  1570.  The  fifth  of  the 
great  Goto  Masters.  Kyoto. 

Tamagawa.  Joyei.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Tanaka.  Family  name.  Vide  Ichiroye- 
mon. 

Taneda.   Family  name.     Vide  Sadakatsu. 

Tankai.     Vide  Toshikage. 

Tankasai.      Vide  Motoakira.     (Suzuki.) 

Tansai.  Hirata.  1620.  Founded  the 
Hirata  family  of  Awa.  Nothing  is 
known  of  his  work  and  his  date  is 
uncertain. 

Tanzendo.     Vide  Yoshitatsu. 

Tashichi.  Akao.  1 780.  Generally  known 
as  Akao  Yoshitsugu,  but  not  to  be 
confounded  with  Akao  Yoshitsugu 
Kohei.  A  skilled  expert  of  Yedo, 
remarkable  for  his  chiselling  h  jour, 
and  his  production  of  patina. 

Tatsufusa.  Nara.  1730.  A  pupil  of 
Yasuchika.  Yedo. 

Tatsujo.  Goto.  1650.  Mitsufusa. 
Kyoto. 

Tatsumasa.  Nara.  1710.  A  pupil  of 
Toshinaga.  Yedo. 

Tatsunari.  Arakawa.  1790.  Tatsuzo. 
Brother  of  Terutoki  (Omori). 

Tazayemon.  Nomura.  1660.  A  pupil 
of  Goto  Ren  jo  and  a  skilled  artist. 
Kyoto. 

Teijo.  Goto.  1630.  The  ninth  Goto 
Master. 

Teikan.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Tokyo. 

Teisuido.     Vide  Tadasuke. 

Temmin.  igthcent.  (d.  1845.)  A  Yedo 
metal-chiseller  of  the  highest  skill. 
He  was  a  pupil  of  the  second  Kiku- 
gawa  and  a  contemporary  of  Riu- 
min,  with  whom  he  often  worked 
conjointly,  the  two  putting  their 
names  on  the  same  specimen.  Tern- 


CHISELLERS 


min  used  the  marks  Okina  Temmin 
(i.e.,  old  man  Temmin)  ;  ShojS-okina 
Temmin. 

Tempo.  Shoami.  1700.  A  Kyoto  ex- 
pert, celebrated  for  carving  flowers 
and  leaves  tossed  by  the  wind.  His 
pieces  are  generally  marked  Yama- 
shiro  no  Kuni  Tempo. 

Tenjo.      Vide  Mitsunori.     Goto. 

Tenkddo.      Vide  Hidekuni. 

Teruaki.  Yokoya.  1730.  Originally 
known  as  Ishikawa  Kiuhachi  and 
afterwards  called  himself  Jiriu-ken 
and  Yumin.  A  great  carver,  but  he 
devoted  much  of  his  labour  to  copy- 
ing the  masterpieces  of  others.  A 
Japanese  connoisseur  of  the  eight- 
eenth century  writes :  "  No  one 
could  equal  him  in  ease  and  rapidity 
of  working.  If  he  were  asked  to 
make  a  carving  of  some  particular 
object  on  a  kozuka,  he  would  at 
once  take  up  his  chisel,  did  he  hap- 
pen to  be  in  the  mood,  and  would 
not  cease  till  he  had  produced  sev- 
eral exquisite  specimens,  working, 
all  the  while,  in  the  simplest,  most 
unconcerned  way."  Yedo. 

Teruaki.  Yokoya.  1700.  lyemon. 
Subsequently  called  himself  Soyu. 
A  skilled  expert,  but  his  works  are 
very  rare.  Yedo. 

Teruhide.  Omori.  1760.  Kis5ji.  Called 
himself  Ittosai  and  Riu-u-sai.  A  pu- 
pil of  Terumasa  (Omori).  A  splen- 
did expert.  The  Omori  style  (carving 
in  high  relief  on  grounds  inlaid  with 
gold  in  the  aventurine  pattern)  be- 
came widely  popular  in  his  hands. 
The  Soken  Kisho  says  of  him  :  "  His 
chisel  marks  have  a  force  that  would 
rend  a  rock.  His  fuka-bori  (deeply 
incised)  waves,  etc.,  on  a  ground  of 
shibuichi  are  magnificent,  and  noth- 
ing can  exceed  the  exquisite  beauty 
of  his  high  relief  peonies  on  nashiji 
(aventurine  ground).  He  seems  to 
have  based  his  method  of  carving 
flowers  on  Somin's  celebrated  ichi- 
rin-botan  (single-blossom  peony). 
His  martial  figures  are  grand." 
Yedo.  (Said  to  have  been  the  first 
to  carve  wave' diaper  in  high  relief.) 

Teruhiko.  Murata.  1800.  Bennosuke. 
Called  himself  Okando.  Pupil  of 
Teruhide  (Omori).  Yedo. 

Teruhisa.  Kuwamura.  1780.  Kiuhei. 
Pupil  of  Tenimasa  (Omori).  Yedo. 


Teruiye.     Omori.     1780.    Denzo.    Pupil 

of  Terumasa  (Omori).     Yedo. 
Terukazu.       Omori.       1760.       Jisuke. 

Called     himself     also     Kanshikan. 

Yedo. 
Terukuni.     Omori.     1810.     Yagohei   or 

Yajiuro.    A  great  chiseller  of  nanako. 

Yedo. 
Terumasa.     Omori.      1730.      A  skilled 

expert,    generally   regarded    as    the 

originator  of   the    Omori   style.     A 

pupil  of  Naomasa  (Yanagawa).     Art 

name,  Yoichi  Kambun.     Yedo. 
Terumitsu.     Omori.     1820.      Kisoji  or 

Manzo.     Called   himself    Chosendo 

and  Kijusai.    A  great  expert.     Yedo. 
Terumoto.       Omori.      1810.      Tatsuzo. 

Yedo. 
Terunaga.     Omori.     1790.     Shirobei  or 

Shigetsugu.     Yedo. 
Terusada.    Yamamoto.    1780.    Kambei. 

A  pupil  of  Terumasa  (Omori)  and  a 

skilled  expert.     Yedo. 
Terushige.     Yokoya.    1750.    Minosuke. 

Sometimes  marked  his  works  Nobu- 

sada.     Yedo. 
Terutake.      Suguira.      1780.      Dembei. 

Pupil  of  Terumasa  (Omori).     Yedo. 
Temtoki.       Tokuno.       1780.      Genjiro. 

Called   himself    also    Ichimudo.     A 

pupil  of   Terumasa    (Omori)   and  a 

highly  skilled  expert.     Yedo. 
Terutoki.     Omori.     1750.     A   pupil  of 

Terumasa  (Omori).     Yedo. 
Terutsugu.     Yokoya.     1780.     Yedo. 
Terutsugu.     Yoshioka.     1680.      Rizaye- 

mon.     Called  also  Hidesaburo,  and 

had  the  title  of  Inaba-no-suke.   Yedo. 
Terutsumu.        Yoshioka.       igth     cent. 

Metal-worker  of  Yedo. 
Teruuji.      Omori.       1800.      Yojiuro    or 

Teruchika.     Yedo. 
Teruyoshi.      Mizuno.       1660.       Genji. 

Kaga. 

Tessai.      Vide  Yoshitatsu. 
Tetsuya.     Gembei.      Vide  Naoshige. 
Tetsuya.     Gembei.      Vide  Naoshige. 
Tetsuya.       Kimbei.       Vide     Shigemoto 

(Kubo). 
Tetsuya.     Dembei.     Vide  Kuniharu  and 

Harukuni. 

Toan.      Vide  Somin. 
Todaya.      Vide  Mitsusada. 
Togindo.       Vide  Yoshiteru. 
Togokushi.      Vide  Masatsune  and  Koret- 

sune. 

Togu.      Vide  Motozumi  (Oyama). 
Tohoken.      Vide  Motohisa  (Yoshikawa). 


59 


CHISELLERS 


Toji.      Tamagawa.      1820.      Ginjiro   or 

Ginsaburo.       His   works    are   often 

marked  Katsuzumi.    A  skilled  artist. 

Yedo. 

Toju.      Vide  Hiromasa. 
Tokai.      Vide  Nobutatsu. 
Tokakusai.     Vide  Yoshihisa. 
Tokiakira.     1850.     Art  name,  Issai.     A 

Kyoto  expert  of  great  skill. 
Tokihide.    Kato.    1680.    Jisuke.    Kyoto. 
Tokisada.     1630.      Heihachi.     A   great 

expert.     He  received  three  hundred 

koku  of  rice  annually  from  the  feudal 

chief  of  Kaga  for  whom  he  worked. 
Tokasai.     Vide  Hiramitsu. 
Tokuoki.     1 9th    cent.     Metal-worker  of 

Yedo. 
T5mei.     Present  day.     A  skilled  metal- 

chiseller  of  Osaka. 
Tomejiro.     Wakabayashi.      1790.      Son 

of  Masanao  (Nomura).     Yedo. 
Tomihisa.     Makita.     1760.     Yayokichi, 

called  also  Hoju.     Yedo. 
Tomihisa.   Kuwamura.     1630.    Koshiro. 

A  skilled  expert  of  Kaga.     The  son 

of  Moriyoshi. 

Tominsai.      Vide  Yoshitsune. 
Tomishige.     Shoami.     1580.     Date  un- 
certain.    Worked  in  Owari. 
Tomisuke.      Uyemura.      1750.      Sahei. 

A    pupil    of     Uyemura     Takafusa. 

Kyoto. 
Tomoakira.     1820.     Date  uncertain.    An 

expert  of  Bizen,  skilled  in  the  Sumi- 

zogan  process. 

Tomobumi.     igth  cent.     Skilled  metal- 
worker of  Yedo.     Art  name,  Yush- 

into. 
Tomochika.       Omori.       1820.      Denza- 

buro.     Called  himself  Riu-un-sai.    A 

skilled  expert.     Yedo. 
Tomoharu.     Okamoto.      1590.      Sojiro. 

Hagi.    Founded  the  Okamoto  family 

of  Hagi. 
Tomohiro.     Takenouchi.     1810.    Kuma- 

yemon.    Called  himself  Ichigyoku-do. 

Pupil  of  Hidetomo  (Omori).     Yedo. 
Tomokata.     Okamoto.      1750.      Kuma- 

no-j5.     Hagi. 
Tomokiyo.      Uyemura.     1700.     Hikoza- 

yemon.     A  skilled  expert.     Kaga. 
Tornomasa.       Hasegawa.      1810.      Yas- 

unosuke.       A    pupil    of     Hidetomo 

(Omori).      Yedo. 
Tomomasa.     Daishinto.    1810.    Tokichi. 

A  Samurai  who  became  a  pupil  of 

Hidetomo    (Omori)    and    developed 

much  skill.      Yedo. 


Tomomichi.  1820,  Vide  Yoshiaki 
(Tanaka). 

Tomomichi.  1 8th  and  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Choshiu. 

Tomomitsu.  Onishi.  1810.  Sadasuke. 
A  pupil  of  Hidetomo  (Omori).  Yedo. 

Tomomitsu.  Okamoto.  1630.  Saye- 
mon.  Hagi. 

Tomonao.  Yanagawa.  igthcent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Koset- 
suken. 

Tomonobu.  Nakai.  1700.  Hikozaye- 
mon.  Hagi. 

Tomonori.  Hirose.  1810.  Yoshiguro. 
Pupil  of  Hidetomo  (Omori).  Yedo. 

Tomosada.      Vide  Soyo  (the  2d). 

Tomoshige.  1630.  Sukekuro.  Pupil 
of  Tsuji  Yamashiro  no  Kami. 
1640. 

Tomotake.     Yokoya.     1750.     Yedo. 

Tomotoshi.  Okamoto.  1730.  Kohei. 
Hagi. 

Tomotsugu.      Vide  Somin  (the  2d). 

Tomotsugu.  Okamoto.  1690.  Toza- 
yemon.  An  amateur  who  became 
very  famous.  Hagi. 

Tomotsugu.  1650.  Saburoyemon.  Son 
of  Tomoshige  Sukekuro.  Kaga. 

Tomotsugu.  Tsuji.  1700.  Saburoye- 
mon. A  skilled  expert  of  Kaga, 

Tomotsune.  Omori.  1830.  Keijiro. 
Yedo.  Some  of  his  works  are 
signed  Hirano  Tomotsune. 

Tomotsune.  Nakai.  1680.  Zensuke. 
The  most  celebrated  of  the  Choshiu 
guard-makers  of  the  Nakai  family. 
His  iron  guards  chiselled  in  high 
relief  in  full  sculpture  and  ft,  jour 
are  of  the  highest  grade,  and  were 
selected  by  the  feudal  chief  of 
Choshiu  for  presentation  to  the 
Tokugawa  Government.  Hagi. 

Tomotsune.  Nakai.  1640.  Sahei. 
Hagi.  Not  to  be  confounded  with 
his  celebrated  grandson  of  the  same 
name. 

Tomotsune.      Vide  Somin. 

Tomoyoshi.  Okamoto.  1670.  Kohei. 
Hagi. 

Tomoyoshi.  Okamoto.  1720.  Jinza- 
yemon.  Son  of  Tomotsugu.  Hagi. 

Tomoyoshi.  Hitotsuyanagi.  1780. 
There  were  two  of  this  name,  father 
(1750)  and  son.  They  worked  at 
Mho. 

Tomoyoshi.  Hirano.  1730.  Izayemon, 
Riyosuke.  A  master  among  the 
Mito  artists.  Pupil  of  Yasuhira 


60 


CHISELLERS 


and  employed  by  the  feudal  chief  of 
Mito. 

Tomoyoshi.     1820.     Vide  Yoshiaki. 

Tomoyoshi.  Kikugawa.  igth  cent. 
Skilled  metal-worker  of  Yedo.  Art 
name,  Ichiriusai. 

Tomoyuki.  Nakai.  1700.  Zembei. 
Hagi. 

Tomoyuki.  Nakai.  1660.  Zensuke. 
First  of  the  Nakai  family  to  carve 
figures,  birds,  animals,  etc.,  and 
therefore  the  originator  of  the  elabo- 
rately chiselled  iron  guards  of  Chos- 
hiu.  Hagi. 

Toriusai.  Okano.  1850.  Kijiro.  A 
Yedo  expert  of  the  highest  skill. 
One  of  the  greatest  sculptors  of 
sword-furniture  in  the  nineteenth 
century.  In  1846  he  received  the 
art  rank  of  Hogen.  Called  also 
Kijiro. 

Toshichi.  1720.  A  pupil  of  Masu-ya 
Kihei.  Kyoto. 

Toshiharu.  Nara.  1680.  Employed 
by  the  Yedo  Court.  Famous  for 
carving  landscapes.  Officially  known 
as  Echizen,  and  called  S5yu  in  his 
old  age.  One  of  the  three  celebrated 
masters  of  the  Nara  family,  who  are 
commonly  spoken  of  as  "  three  pic- 
tures en  suite'1''  (sah-buku-tsui), 
namely,  Toshiharu,  Toshihisa,  and 
Yasuchika. 

Toshihisa.  Nara.  1760.  Son  of  the 
celebrated  Toshihisa.  Yedo. 

Toshihisa.  Nara.  1720.  Tahei.  An 
artist  of  the  highest  fame.  He  is 
included  with  Toshiharu  and  Yasu- 
chika in  the  group  of  the  three  Nara 
Masters,  known  as  the  "  three  pic- 
tures en  suite"  (san-buku-tsui] .  The 
Soken  Kisho  says  of  him : — "  His 
style  was  not  that  of  either  the 
Yokoya  family  or  his  own  family. 
He  carved  plants,  flowers,  birds,  etc., 
with  the  utmost  delicacy,  and  is  uni- 
versally credited  with  having  struck 
out  a  style  of  his  own.  The  Nara 
school  has  found  many  imitators,  but 
there  is  about  Toshihisa's  work  an 
individuality  that  defies  imitation. 
Nevertheless  we  find  specimens 
carefully  chiselled  and  marked 
'  Toshihisa.'  They  cannot  be  com- 
pared to  the  genuine  work  any  more 
than  glass  can  be  compared  to  dia- 
monds." Yedo. 

Toshikage.     igth  cent.     Skilled   metal- 


worker of  Awaji.  Art  name,  Tankai 
and  Rengetsutei. 

Toshikatsu.  Nara.  1740.  Called  Chi- 
kugo  in  his  old  age.  Yedo. 

Toshimitsu.  Watanabe.  igth  cent. 
Metal-worker  of  Yedo.  Pupil  of 
Toriusai. 

Toshimitsu.  ipth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Not  to  be  confounded 
with  Nara  Toshimitsu. 

Toshimitsu.  Nara.  1720.  Shichiroza- 
yemon.  Subsequently  called  Sokan. 
An  expert  of  considerable  fame. 
Yedo. 

Toshimitsu.  Vide  Hisamitsu  (Watan- 
abe). 

Toshimune.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Toshimune.  Nara.  1630.  Son  of 
Toshiteru.  The  first  of  the  Nara 
experts  to  obtain  distinction,  and 
therefore  often  called  the  founder  of 
the  family.  Called  S5tei  in  his  old 
age.  Yedo. 

Toshinaga.  Nara.  1710.  A  pupil  of 
the  first  Toshinaga.  Yedo. 

Toshinaga.  Nara.  1700.  Shichizaye- 
mon.  An  artist  of  considerable 
skill.  Called  Chizan  in  his  old  age. 
Yedo. 

Toshinaga.  1700.  An  artist  whose 
family  and  date  are  uncertain.  His 
name  is  found  on  finely  chiselled 
pieces,  having  a  decoration  of  a  cat- 
fish (iiumazu)  and  water-grasses  in 
relief. 

Toshinaga.  Fujita.  1840.  An  expert 
of  Aizu,  who  worked  in  very  elabo- 
rate style,  but  showed  the  inartistic 
features  of  the  Aizu  and  Mino  style. 

Toshinao.     Nara.     1750.      Yedo. 

Toshinobu.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Unsuiken. 

Toshioki.  Kaneko.  1650.  Carver  to 
the  feudal  chief  of  Kishiu. 

Toshisada.  1720.  Family,  etc.  unknown. 
A  guard-maker  of  Sado ;  highly 
skilled  whether  in  chiselling  a  jour  or 
in  relief,  and  in  tempering  iron. 

Toshishige.  Nara.  1720.  A  pupil  of 
the  second  Toshinaga.  Yedo. 

Toshitayo.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Toshiteru.  Nara.  1620.  Founder  of 
the  Nara  family  of  metal-workers. 
Moved  to  Yedo  in  1621.  Yedo. 

Toshitsugu.  i gth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 


61 


CHISELLERS 


Toshitsune.     Nara.     1770.     Yedo. 

Toshiyoshi.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Toshiyoshi.  Hamano.  I9th  cent. 
Metal-worker  of  Yedo. 

Toshiyori.  Hamano.  1790.  Nanjo. 
Commonly  called  Rizui.  Yedo. 

Toshiyuki.  1750.  A  pupil  of  Nori- 
yuki  (Hamano). 

Tosuiken.      Vide  Sadahisa  (Morita). 

Tou.      Vide  Yasuchika  (Nara). 

Toun.      Vide  Tamagawa  Yoshihisa. 

Tounsai.      Vide  Masachika  (Tsuji). 

Tounsai.      Vide  Hisatsugu. 

Toyoda.  Koko.  Present  day.  A  skilled 
metal -chiseller  of  Tokyo ;  the  in- 
ventor of  the  process  called  kiri- 
bame-zogan  (vide  text). 

Toyokawa.  Mitsunaga.  Present  day. 
A  metal -chiseller  of  Tokyo  scarcely 
less  skilled  than  ShSmin ;  son  of 
Koriusai  (q.  v.).  He  has  made  some 
magnificent  specimens,  in  which 
every  kind  of  metal  work  is  em- 
ployed. 

Toyomasa.  1 8th  and  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Choshiu. 

Toyomitsu.  Goto.  1720.  Matsusa- 
buro.  Kaga. 

Toyosai.      Vide  Kanetomo. 

Toyotaka.  i9th  cent.  Metal-worker  of 
Choshiu. 

Toyotomi.  Minota.  1830.  Yuho.  Pupil 
of  Terumitsu  (Omori).  Yedo. 

Toyoyori.  Hamano.  1770.  Hikogoro. 
Generally  known  as  HSzui  (another 
pronunciation  of  Toyoyori).  Art 
name,  Tsugensai.  Yedo. 

Tozui.      Vide  Tadayori. 

Tsu  Jimpo.      Vide  Jimpo. 

Tsuchiya.  Family  name.  Vide  Kin- 
shichi. 

Tsugensai.      Vide  Toyoyori. 

Tsugusada.      Vide  Sochi. 

Tsuji.  1 630.  Yamashir  o-no-Kami. 
Went  from  Fushimi  to  Kaga  in  the 
year  1625. 

Tsuji.     1 700.      Vide  Tadayoshi. 

Tsujo.  Goto.  1690.  Eleventh  of  the 
great  Goto  Masters.  Kyoto. 

Tsuju.      Vide  Mitsuhisa. 

Tsukuda.  Shukiyo.  Present  day.  A 
skilled  metal-sculptor,  celebrated  also 
for  combining  metals  so  as  to  pro- 
duce fine  effects  of  colour-harmonies. 
He  has  produced  some  magnificent 
iron  tablets  with  designs  in  high 
relief. 


Tsunagawa.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Tsunayoshi.  Shoami.  1780.  Worked 
at  Wakamatsu  in  Aizu. 

Tsunehisa.  Kajima.  1810.  Yeijiro. 
A  pupil  of  Kiyohisa  (Tanaka).  Yedo. 

Tsunekatsu.  Kikuchi.  1 730.  A  pupil 
of  Naokatsu  (Inagawa).  Celebrated 
for  skill  in  chiselling  in  relief  and  in 
the  Kibori  style.  One  of  the  great 
artists  of  the  Yanagawa  school. 
Yedo. 

Tsunekazu.  Nara.  1720.  Kiraku.  A 
pupil  of  Yasuchika.  Yedo. 

Tsunemitsu.  Kikuchi.  1740.  lyemon. 
A  pupil  of  Tsunekatsu.  Highly 
skilled  in  Kibori  chiselling,  but  his 
work  lacks  strength. 

Tsunenaga.  i9th  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Tsunenao.  1770.  Kiubei.  A  pupil  of 
Nagatsune.  Kyoto. 

Tsunenari.  Tsuji.  1760.  Used  the 
mark,  Rakusuido.  A  great  carver  in 
the  style  of  Rinsendo.  He  died 
young  (Omi  province). 

Tsunenori.  Nakai.  1600.  Shinzaye- 
mon.  Suwo. 

Tsunesada.     1740.     Yedo. 

Tsuneshige.  Nara.  1730.  A  great  ex- 
pert, celebrated  for  combining  high 
and  low  relief.  Used  at  first  the 
mark  Sekiguchi  Ryoka,  and  after- 
wards that  of  Kawamura  Ichiyemon. 
Yedo. 

Tsunetsugu.  Yoshioka.  1770.  Riza- 
yemon.  Called  also  Hidesaburo,  and 
had  the  title  of  Inaba-no-suke.  Yedo. 

Tsuneyuki.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Jiriuken  and 
Ranzan. 

Tsuneyuki.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Jiriyusai. 

Uhei.     Vide  Jokwo. 

Ujiharu.  Wakabayashi.  1720.  Uhei. 
A  skilled  artist.  Originally  of  the 
Katsugi  family,  he  changed  his  name 
to  Wakabayashi,  and  became  carver 
to  the  feudal  chief  of  Toyama  in 
Yetchiu. 

Ujihira.  Katsugi.  1770.  Hachirobeu 
Kaga. 

Ujihiro.  Katsugi.  1720.  Kichirobei. 
Celebrated  for  his  nanako  work. 
Kaga. 

Ujiiye.  Katsugi.  1 630.  Gondayu. 
Moved  from  Fushimi  to  Kaga  in  the 
year  1625.  A  pupil  of  Goto  Kenjo- 


CHISELLERS 


and  a  skilled  expert.  He  received 
an  annual  allowance  of  fifteen  rations 
from  the  feudal  chief  of  Kaga. 

Ujiiye.  Katsugi.  1650.  Ichibei,  son  of 
Ujiiye  Gondayu.  Kaga. 

Ujiiye.  Kaneko.  1670.  Ichibei,  son  of 
Ujiiye  Katsugi,  but  subsequently 
changed  his  family  name  to  Kaneko. 
A  famous  carver.  Kaga. 

Ujiiye.  Katsugi.  1670.  Ichiroyemon, 
younger  brother  of  Ujiiye  Ichibei. 
An  artist  of  high  repute.  Kaga. 

Ujiiye.  MiySchin.  1560.  First  named 
lyeyoshi  and  afterwards  Nobuiye.  A 
great  expert,  but  not  to  be  con- 
founded with  the  still  greater  Nobu- 
iye, the  seventeenth  representative 
of  the  Miyochin  family,  who  worked 
in  Joshiu.  Ujiiye  worked  in  Kai. 

Ujikata.  Katsugi.  1710.  Kakunojo. 
Kaga. 

Ujikiyo.  Katsugi.  1690.  Kakubei. 
Kaga. 

Ujimune.  Katsugi.  1730.  Saburo. 
Kaga. 

Ujinaga.  Katsugi.  1630.  Kihei.  Pupil 
of  Ujiiye  Gondayu.  Kaga. 

Ujinaga.  Katsugi.  1650.  Kihei,  son 
of  Ujinaga  Kihei.  Kaga. 

Ujinao.  Hirata.  1650.  Ichizayemon. 
A  pupil  of  the  Shoami  experts  of 
Kyoto.  A  maker  of  iron  guards 
inlaid  with  gold.  Awa  province. 

Ujinari.  1670.  Jihei,  a  pupil  of  Ujiiye 
Ichiroyemon.  Kaga. 

Ujinobu.  Katsugi.  1670.  Buhei;  son 
of  Ujiiye  Ichibei.  Kaga. 

Ujinobu.  1670.  A  pupil  of  Ujiiye  Ichi- 
royemon. Kaga. 

Ujitada.  1670.  A  pupil  of  Ujiiye  Ichi- 
royemon. Kaga. 

Ujiteru.  Wakabayashi.  1790.  Kichi- 
robei.  Originally  of  the  Katsugi 
family,  he  afterwards  changed  his 
name  to  Wakabayashi.  Kaga. 

Ujitsugu.  Katsugi.  1670.  Rokuro. 
Kaga. 

Ujitsugu.  Katsugi.  1790.  Yenshichi. 
Kaga. 

Ujiyasu  Hirata.  1680.  Yohachiro. 
A  maker  of  iron  guards  inlaid  with 
gold.  Awa  province. 

Ujiyasu.  Katsugi.  1730.  Kichirobei. 
Kaga. 

Ujiyasu.  Katsugi.  1750.  Kichirobei. 
Kaga.  (Second  of  the  same  name.) 

Ujiyasu.  Katsugi.  1760.  Kichirobei. 
Kaga.  (Third  of  the  same  name.) 


Ujiyasu.  Katsugi.  1780.  Gonkichi. 
Kaga.  (A  pupil  of  Goto  Yenjo.) 

Ujiyoshi.  Katsugi.  1750.  Gonnojo. 
Kaga. 

Ujiyoshi.  Katsugi.  1690.  Ichinojo; 
son  of  Ujiiye  Ichiroyemon.  A  cele- 
brated artist,  who  combined  delicate 
chiselling  with  rich  inlaying.  Kaga. 

Ujiyoshi.    Katsugi.    1790.   Jihei.    Kaga. 

Unjo.  Goto.  1680.  Called  also  Mitsu- 
yuki.  Kyoto. 

Unno.  Nenokichi.  A  highly  skilled 
metal-chiseller  of  the  present  day. 

Unno.  Shomin.  Present  day.  One  of 
the  greatest  workers  in  metal  that 
Japan  has  produced.  Originally  a 
chiseller  of  sword-furniture.  Has 
made  many  objects  for  the  Imperial 
Court,  and  is  famous  for  combining 
repousse  and  chiselling  in  iron,  as 
well  as  for  sculpture  in  the  round, 
and  for  incised  chiselling  in  the  kata- 
kiri  style. 

Unno.  Shoshiu.  Present  day.  Metal- 
sculptor.  Pupil  of  the  Unno  Shomin. 

Unsui.  Katsura.  1720.  Nagatoshi. 
A  pupil  of  Fusayoshi  (Yokoya),  and 
an  artist  of  the  first  rank.  Yedo. 

Unsuiken.      Vide  Toshinobu. 

Unteido.      Vide  Hiranori. 

Watanabe.     Sukekuro.      Vide  Yasuyuki. 

Watanabe.  Hisamitsu.  igth  cent.  Met- 
al-worker of  Yedo. 

Watanabe.  Jizan.  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Yagami.  i8th  and  igth  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yedo. 

Yahei.  Kishimoto.  1780.  A  pupil  of 
Goto  Shichiroyemon,  and  a  skilled 
artist  of  Kyoto. 

Yamada.  Gorobei.  Muneyoshi.  Pres- 
ent day.  Son  of  Yamada  Gorobei 
Munemitsu. 

Yamada.  Gorobei.  Munemitsu.  Pres- 
ent day.  A  metal-sculptor  of  Kaga, 
celebrated  for  his  skill  in  repousse 
work.  He  is  the  tenth  in  descent 
from  Yamada  Ichiyemon  lyemasa, 
who,  as  well  as  his  descendants  up 
to  the  time  of  the  father  of  the  pres- 
ent representative  of  the  family, 
forged  armour  and  iron  stirrups  in- 
laid with  gold. 

Yamada.  Ichiyemon  lyemasa.  i6th 
cent.  An  armourer  of  Kanazawa 
(Kaga),  specially  skilled  in  inlaying 
with  gold  and  silver.  The  Yamada 
family  continued  to  work  as  armour- 


CHISELLERS 


ers  down  to  the  present  representa- 
tive, who  manufactures  vases,  etc., 
decorated  in  the  repousst  style  with 
addition  of  inlaying.  The  names  of 
the  representatives  of  the  family 
after  lyemasa  are: 

Yamada.  lyetada  Jiyemon.  1630. 
Sword-smith  as  well  as  armourer. 

Yamada.     lyesada  Gorobei.     1655. 

Yamada.     lyetsugu  Ichiyemon.     1685. 

Yamada.     lyenaga  Jinyemon.     1720. 

Yamada.     Nagakatsu  Gorobei.     1760. 

Yamada.     Nagamoto  Sanyemon.     1810. 

Yamada.     Nagayo  Gorobei.     1840. 

Yamada.     lyemitsu  Gorobei.     1860. 

Yamagata.  A  name  given  to  the  mark, 
meaning  "  mountain  shape."  The 
maker  of  the  specimens  thus  marked 
has  never  been  identified.  They 
are  generally  decorated  with  herons, 
moorland  views,  spools  of  yarn,  etc., 
in  relief  on  a  polished  ground,  picked 
out  with  gold  (not  plating  but  solid 
gold).  The  maker  cannot  have 
lived  at  a  later  date  than  the  middle 
of  the  eighteenth  century. 

Yamagawa.  Koji.  igth  cent.  (d. 
1897.)  A  skilled  metal-chiseller  of 
Takaoka. 

Yamashiro-no-kami.  Tsuji.  1630. 
Originally  an  artist  of  Fushimi,  he 
moved  to  Kaga  and  received  an  al- 
lowance of  one  hundred  and  fifty 
koku  of  rice  yearly  from  the  feudal 
chief  of  that  province. 

Yamayoshi.  Shoami.  1540.  One  of 
the  old  experts,  contemporary  with 
Nobuiye  (Miyochin).  He  made 
guards  with  the  design  pierced  & 
jour,  but  did  not  polish  the  iron. 
Worked  in  Owari. 

Yamayoshi-bei.  Shoami.  1570.  Son 
of  the  first  Yamayoshi.  Worked  in 
his  father's  style,  but  polished  the 
iron  carefully,  and  gave  a  recurved 
rim  to  his  guards.  Worked  in 
Owari.  " 

Yamazaki.     Family  name.      Vide  Ichiga. 

Yanagawa.  Family  name.  Vide  Nao- 
masa. 

Yasayobi.      Vide  Riyonenshi. 

Yasuchika.  T  s  u  c  h  i  y  a  (sometimes 
spoken  of  as  Nara).  1730.  Yago- 
hachi.  A  great  artist,  one  of  the 
"  Three  Nara  Masters  "  (vide  Toshi- 
hisa).  His  work  resembles  that  of 
Toshihisa,  but  is  bolder  in  style,  and 
has  a  markedly  subjective  character. 


He  had  been  called  the  Kworin  (vide 
pictorial  art)  of  glyptic  artists.  Imi- 
tations of  his  work  have  been  numer 
ous  ever  since  the  middle  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  but  the  essential 
features  of  his  style  are  inimitable. 
Some  of  his  pieces  are  marked  Tou. 
Yedo. 

Yasufusa.  Hirata.  1700.  Ichizaye- 
mon.  A  maker  of  iron  guards  inlaid 
with  gold.  Awa  province. 

Yasuhira.  Shinozaki.  1650.  Shoye- 
mon.  One  of  the  most  celebrated  of 
the  Mito  experts.  The  Mito  carving 
is  more  elaborate  than  artistic,  but 
the  technique  is  often  admirable. 
Mito. 

Yasuhisa.  Shingaku.  1770.  Tomo-no- 
jo.  Artistic  name,  Keirinsai.  Sen- 
dai. 

Yasukawa.  Sanyemon.  igth  cent. 
(d.  1887.)  A  skilled  metal-chiseller 
of  Takaoka. 

Yasunobu.  Nara.  1 730.  Son  of  Yasu- 
chika. Called  at  first  Yasunobu.  An 
artist  scarcely  inferior  to  his  father, 
To-6.  The  representatives  of  the 
Yasuchika  family  worked  generation 
after  generation  in  Yedo,  up  to  the 
sixth  generation  in  1850. 

Yasunobu.  Noda.  1600.  Chiuzaye- 
mon.  A  skilled  expert  of  Kyoto. 

Yasushige.  Fuse.  1630.  Shozaburo. 
A  pupil  of  Goto  Sakujo.  Kyoto. 

Yasutomi.  Shibayo.  1730.  Ihei.  A 
pupil  of  Yokoya  Teruaki.  One  of 
the  earliest  of  the  Sendai  experts. 

Yasuyemon.  Komori.  1700.  A  pupil 
of  Goto  Kambei.  Kyoto. 

Yasuyori.  Hamano.  1770.  Yenjuro. 
At  first  called  Naoyuki,  and  gener- 
ally known  as  Hozui  (another  pro- 
nunciation of  Yasuyori).  Yedo. 

Yasuyuki.  Tsuji.  1750.  An  artist  of 
note.  Had  various  names  —  Masa- 
yuki,  Watanabe,  Sukekuro,  and 
Hikokoro.  Yedo. 

Yeiji.  Nayemura.  1820.  A  Kyoto 
expert,  skilled  in  carving  dragons 
among  waves. 

Yeijo.      Vide  Narikado  (Hirata). 

Yeijo.  Goto.  1600.  Sixth  of  the  great 
Goto  Masters.  Kyoto. 

Yeiju.  Takase.  1780.  Izayemon. 
Pupil  of  Sekijoken. 

Yeisendo.      Vide  Yoshinori. 

Yeishu.  Iwamoto.  1780.  Yasuchika 
Shinsuke.  Pupil  of  Iwamoto  Kon- 


64 


CHISELLERS 


kwan.  Celebrated  for  skill  in  Kata- 
kiri  chiselling.  Worked  first  in 
Yedo  and  afterwards  in  Mito. 

Yeizui.     Vide  Fusayori. 

Yekijo.  Goto.  1630.  Mitsuharu. 
Kyoto. 

Yenjo.  Goto.  1630.  Mitsuhide,  and 
commonly  known  as  Kambei. 
Kyoto. 

Yenjo.  Goto.  1760.  The  thirteenth 
Goto  Master. 

Yetsujo.  Goto.  1660.  Mitsukuni. 
Kyoto. 

Yohei.  Umemura.  1710.  Commonly 
called  Masuya  Yohei.  A  pupil  of 
Soho.  Kyoto. 

Yokoya.     Family  name.      Vide  Teruaki. 

Yoritoshi.  Nomura.  Pupil  of  Hiyobu 
Hogen. 

Yoritsune.  1580.  Nothing  is  known 
about  this  artist,  but  an  inscription 
on  his  work  shows  that  he  lived  in 
the  time  of  the  celebrated  master 
of  tea  ceremonial,  Sen  no  Rikiu. 

Yoshiaki.  Tanaka.  1720.  Gozaye- 
mon.  A  pupil  of  Goto  Rihei.  A 
skilled  expert.  Yedo. 

Yoshiaki.  1810.  An  expert  of  some 
note.  Studied  in  Mito  and  settled 
in  Yedo.  Commonly  called  Unno 
Yoshiaki.  . 

Yoshiaki.  Ishiguro.  1850.  Kichigoro. 
Yedo. 

Yoshichika.  Tsuchiya.  i8th  and  igth 
cent.  Metal-worker  of  Kaga. 

Yoshida.     Family  name.     Vide  Bunsui. 

Yoshiharu.  Kaneko.  1550.  Kichi-no- 
jo.  A  man  of  noble  origin,  who 
studied  carving  under  Goto  Kwojo, 
and  attained  such  skill  that  he 
adopted  the  work  as  a  profession, 
and  founded  the  Kaneko  family  of 
artists.  Kyoto. 

Yoshiharu.     1840.     Sentaro.     Yedo. 

Yoshihide.  Mikami.  1840.  Wajiuro. 
Called  Kosanya.  Yedo. 

Yoshihiro.  Kuwamura.  1620.  Yosa- 
bei.  A  skilled  expert  with  a  pecul- 
iarly soft  style.  Adopted  son  of 
Koko.  Kaga. 

Yoshihiro.  Noda.  1730.  Uhachi.  A 
pupil  of  Yasuchika  (Nara).  Cele- 
brated for  carving  groups  of  various 
kinds  of  fish.  His  work  is  tender 
yet  strong.  Yedo. 

Yoshihiro.  Iwamoto.  1750.  Chiuye- 
mon ;  afterwards  Yohachi.  Called 
also  Kikwan.  Father  of  the  cele- 


brated Konkwan  (Iwamoto).  He  is 
sometimes  spoken  of  as  belonging  to 
the  Shoami  family.  Kyoto. 

Yoshihisa.  Umetada.  1700.  The 
thirty-first  descendant  of  Tachibana 
no  Munechika.  On  his  work  is 
found  the  inscription  Umetada 
Tachibana  no  Nanigashi,  or  "  A 
certain  member  of  the  Tachibana 
family."  A  Kyoto  expert. 

Yoshihisa.  1810.  Onominokichi.  Art 
name,  Tokakusai.  A  pupil  of  Kyo- 
hisa  (Tanaka).  Aizu. 

Yoshihisa.  Tamagawa.  1770.  Saburo- 
shiro.  A  skilled  expert.  Employed 
by  the  Daimiyo  of  Mito  and  after- 
wards worked  in  Yedo.  Art  name, 
Kiukiuken. 

Yoshihisa.  Tamagawa.  1790.  Tashi- 
chi.  Called  himself  Joyeikan.  A 
nephew  of  Yoshihisa  Saburoshiro. 
Celebrated  for  his  skill  in  carving 
dragons.  Yedo. 

Yoshihisa.  Shoami.  1750.  Heisuke. 
Worked  first  at  Tsuyama  in  Mino- 
saka,  and  afterwards  in  Kyoto. 

Yoshikawa.  igth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo. 

Yoshikatsu.  Inagawa.  1740.  Carved 
in  the  style  of  Naomasa  (Yanagawa) 
and  attained  a  high  reputation. 
Yedo. 

Yoshikatsu.  1840.  Yeijiro.  A  pupil 
of  Jikosai.  Yedo. 

Yoshikatsu.  Okamoto.  1740.  Tozay- 
emon.  A  skilled  artist.  His  work 
was  presented  by  the  feudal  chief  of 
Choshiu  to  the  Yedo  Court.  Hagi. 

Yoshikazu.  Shoami.  1620.  An  expert 
of  the  lyo  branch  of  the  Shoami 
family.  Matsuyama. 

Yoshikuni.  Yoshishige.  i66p.  Mago- 
yemon.  Kaga. 

Yoshikuni.  Yoshishige.  1710.  Choye- 
mon.  Kaga. 

Yoshikyo.  Goto.  1630.  Yoshishige. 
Employed  at  the  Mint  (Kobanza). 
Kyoto. 

Yoshimitsu.  Kaneko.  1660.  An  ex- 
pert of  Kii,  sixth  descendant  of 
Yoshiharu  Kichi-no-jo.  Art  name, 
Jogen.  A  skilled  artist. 

Yoshimitsu.  Aoyagi.  1740.  Yeigoro. 
Called  also  Mitsunari.  A  pupil  of 
Inagawa  Yoshikatsu,  and  a  skilled 
expert.  Yedo. 

Yoshimune.  iQth  cent.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Art  name,  Hiyaku-ji-ken. 


CHISELLERS 


Yoshinaga.  Wao.  1740.  A  Yedo  ex- 
pert, who  worked  in  the  style  of 
Yoshitsugu  Kohei. 

Yoshinaga.  Yasui.  1660.  Sahei.  A 
pupil  of  Goto  Mitsusadt  Riujo.  A 
great  expert.  Kyoto. 

Yoshinaga.  Tamagawa.  1780.  Sabu- 
rohei ;  also  called  Bumpei.  One  of 
the  greatest  of  the  Mito  artists. 
Mito  (Hitachi). 

Yoshinaga.  Furukawa.  1650.  Sahei. 
A  pupil  of  Goto  Riujo.  A  fine  art- 
ist. Kyoto. 

Yoshinaga.  Umetada.  1650.  Shichi- 
zayemon.  One  of  the  early  Umetada 
workers.  His  tsuba  are  solid  but  of 
various  shapes ;  some  are  chiselled 
<J  jour.  A  few  have  gold  inlaying  in 
the  numone  style.  Yoshinaga  used 
the  ideograph  ume  in  marking  his 
work.  Vide  Muneyuki. 

Yoshinari.  Ogawa.  1840.  Minosuke. 
A  pupil  of  Jikosai.  Yedo. 

Yoshinobu.  1750.  Called  himself  Hi- 
yaku-ju-ken  and  marked  his  works 
Yoshinobu.  A  very  skilled  expert. 
Yedo. 

Yoshinori.  Yoshishige.  1630.  Shoku- 
ro.  Pupil  of  Yoshishige  Gorosaku. 
Kaga. 

Yoshinori.  Mizuno.  1630.  Genji. 
Kaga.  Founder  of  the  Mizuno  fam- 
ily. A  pupil  of  Goto  Yenjo  (Mitsu- 
hide). 

Yoshinori.  Tsuji.  1780.  Shinshiro. 
Art  name,  Yeisendo.  An  expert 
of  the  very  highest  skill.  Worked 
in  Omi.  Also  called  Kariuken. 

Yoshinori.  Seki.  1820.  Naokichi. 
Art  name,  Soriusai.  A  great  artist. 
Yedo.  Called  also  U mi-no  Yoshi- 
nori. 0 

Yoshioka.  Family  name.  Vide  Shiget- 
sugu. 

Yoshisada.  Goto.  1630.  Saijiro.  Ka- 
ga. 

Yoshisato.  Ishiguro.  1850.  Called 
himself  Jitekisai.  Nagasaki. 

Yoshishige.  Mizuno.  1630.  Genji. 
A  pupil  of  Goto  Yenjo  and  very 
skilled.  Kaga. 

Yoshishige.  1620.  Gorosaku.  Brother 
of  the  celebrated  Kuninaga  of  Kaga 
and  pupil  of  Goto  Tokujo.  Goro- 
saku and  his  elder  brother,  Jirosaku 
are  equally  famous.  Their  works 
are  commonly  spoken  of  as  Gorosaku- 
bori  and  Jirosaku-bori,  and  they  are 


regarded  as  the  originators  of  the 
Kaga  school  of  experts.  Gorosaku 
is  said  to  have  been  taught  painting 
by  the  artist,  Sosa.  He  and  his 
brother,  Jirosaku,  received  an  annual 
allowance  of  fifty  bags  of  rice  each 
from  the  feudal  chief  of  Kaga.  His 
descendants,  his  pupils  and  their  de- 
scendants took  the  name  Yoshishige 
as  a  family  name. 

Yoshitada.  1840.  Chiuzaburo.  A  pupil 
of  Jikosai.  Yedo. 

Yoshitaka.  Ishiguro.  1850.  Kintaro. 
Yedo. 

Yoshitake.  Shoami.  1660.  Tsutsui. 
A  pupil  of  Soden.  Worked  at  Hik- 
one. 

Yoshitane.  Honjo.  1850.  Kameno- 
suke.  A  celebrated  expert  of  Yedo, 
skilled  not  only  as  a  sword-maker, 
but  also  as  a  chiseller  of  sword- 
mounts.  One  of  the  greatest  work- 
ers of  the  nineteenth  century. 

Yoshitatsu.  Fujiwara.  Metal-worker 
of  Yedo.  Art  names,  Tessai  and 
Tanzando. 

Yoshiteru.  Sonobe.  1840.  Art  name, 
Togindo.  A  skilled  expert  of  Kyoto. 

Yoshitsugu.  Sakai.  1850.  Sakujiro. 
Yedo. 

.Yoshitsugu.  Sh5ami.  1800.  Jiyemon. 
An  expert  of  Aizu. 

Yoshitsugu.  Okamoto.  1760.  To-no- 
shin.  An  elaborate  carver  with  a 
wide  range  of  designs,  being  himself 
a  painter.  Hagi. 

Yoshitsugu.  Yoshishige.  1740.  Hachi 
tayu.  Kaga. 

Yoshitsugu.  Akao.  1640.  Gonzaye- 
mon.  First  expert  of  the  Akao 
family.  Lived  at  Fukui  in  Yechizen. 
Worked  in  the  Kinai  style. 

Yoshitsugu.  Akao.  1670.  Kohei  or 
Kichiji.  Celebrated  as  the  first  to 
apply  pierced  decoration  to  guards 
of  shakudo.  Born  in  Yechizen,  but 
worked  in  Yedo.  Commonly  known 
as  Kinai  Kichiji. 

Yoshitsugu.  Akao.  1720.  A  tolerably 
skilled  expert  who  worked  in  the 
style  of  Yoshitsugu  Kohei.  Yedo. 

Yoshitsune.  Ishiguro.  1850.  Ginno- 
suke.  Grandson  of  Jimiyo.  Called 
himself  Senyushi,  Gammon  and  To- 
minsai.  A  celebrated  expert.  Yedo. 

Yoshitsumu.  1830.  A  fine  expert  of 
Tokyo,  teacher  of  Toriusai. 

Yoshiyasu.    Kato.     1670.    Jihei.    Kyoto. 


66 


CHISELLERS 


Yoshiyuki.  Kumagaye.  1820.  Em- 
ployed by  the  Hosokuwa  Daimiyo, 
for  whom  he  carved  a  celebrated 
silver  vase  encircled  by  a  bronze 
dragon.  Worked  in  Yedo,  and 
attained  great  repute. 

Yoshiyuki.  Akao.  1750.  A  Yedo  ex- 
pert, who  worked  in  the  style  of 
Yoshitsugu  Kohei. 

Y6sh5do.      Vide  Masayasu. 

Yozaburo.  Yokoya.  1 9th  cent.  Metal- 
worker of  Yanagawa.  Called  also 
Tomotsune. 

Yujo.  Goto.  1460.  The  first  of  the 
great  Goto  Masters.  Kyoto. 

Yuki.     Vide  Masaya. 

Yukinaga.  Fujii.  1720.  Gembei.  His 
sword-mounts  are  profusely  and  del- 
icately chiselled.  Hagi. 

Yukinao.  Nakahara.  1710.  Kichibei. 
Kyoto.  Founder  of  the  Nakahara 
family. 

Yukinori.  Nakahara.  1760.  Kichibei. 
Called  in  his  youth  Yukhisia.  A 
celebrated  artist.  It  was  his  custom 
to  carve  all  the  mountings  of  a  sword 
with  designs  en  suite.  He  moved 
from  Kyoto  to  Nagato,  by  invitation 
of  the  Prince  of  ChSshiu,  and  thence- 
forth worked  in  Hagi. 

Yukitada.  Nakahara.  igthcent.  Metal- 
worker of  Choshiu. 

Yukitaka.  Fujii.  1750.  Genyemon.  An 
artist  of  high  repute.  Son  of  Yuk- 


inaga (Fujii),  he  carved  in  the  elabo- 
rate style  of  his  father,  but  with  more 
spirit.  Hagi. 

Yukitoshi.  Nakahara.  1780.  Genza- 
yemon.  Son  of  Yukinori,  and 
scarcely  inferior  to  his  father.  He 
also  attained  to  considerable  repute 
as  a  painter.  Hagi. 

Yukiyoshi.  Nakahara.  1800.  Hambei. 
Hagi. 

Yukotei.      Vide  Masanori. 

Yumeishi.     Vide  Muneaki. 

Yurnin.      Vide  Teruaki  (Yokoya). 

Yurosai.      Vide  Sekibun. 

Yusen.      Vide  Hiyobu  Hogen. 

Yushinto.      Vide  Tomobumi. 

Zaisui.  Funada.  1720.  ShShachi. 
Teacher  of  the  celebrated  Nara 
Yasuchika,  and  a  great  expert. 
Worked  at  Shonai  in  Dewa.  He 
was  followed  by  his  son  of  the  same 
name. 

Zeju.  Iwamoto.  1830.  Pupil  of  Iwa- 
moto  Konkwan.  Yedo. 

Zembei.  Shibaya.  1750.  A  skilled 
inlayer  of  Sendai. 

Zenjin.  1700.  Date  uncertain.  Some 
fine  specimens  of  his  work  exist, 
marked  Akashi  Yechizen. 

Zenjo.  Goto.  1600.  Mitunari,  or  Kihei. 
Kyoto. 

Zenjo.    Goto.    1650.    Mitsunori.    Kyoto. 

Zenshiro.  1610.  A  carver  of  Satsuma. 
Pupil  of  the  Goto  family. 


67 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 

Los  Angeles 
This  book  is  DUE  on  the  last  date  stamped  below. 


MAY  2  1  1963 


Form  L9-50m-9,'60(B3610s4)444 


A  A      000009455   7 


DO   NOT    REMOVE 
THIS    BOOK  CARDv* 


University  Research  Library 


j   li  I 


