'  Mfi  •■■'  ■  ■    ■  ■       ■  ;'  ■'.,.■  ■  ■■■*■■ 

■."::'..■:■::"■■.'■■:■■• 
■ 


REFERENCE 

The.     !ToV\M      fe^oK    cf^Jk^^***^ 


public 


IBBAB/. 


THEBfi^ffi 


AB»ES 


■3  3333 


02373 


5794 


Hip 


i  q  o 


B 


q<]4-i 


tHEtr 
DO* 

NEW 


p.REN'SWX*. 

31TER 


THE  JOLLY  BOOK  OF  BOXCRAFT 


THE 


JOLLY  BOOK  OF 
BOXCRAFT 


BY 

PATTEN  BEARD 

With  Sixty-ei^ht  Photographic  Illustrations  by  G.  S.  North  from 

Models  Made  and  Arranged  by  the  Author  and  with 

Twenty-three  Diagrams  by  E.  D.  Pattee 


NEW   YORK 

FREDERICK  A.  STOKES  COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 


w 


n 


F0UNDA1 


ON8. 


Copyright,  191 4,  by 
FREDERICK  A.  STOKES   COMPANY 


All  rights  reserved 


SECOND  PRINTING 


September 


,  1914:  [.«;.••■ ./;•..;  ■;. .; 


THIS  BOOK 
IS  DEDICATED  TO 

ALL  LITTLE  CHILDREN 

AND  TO 

NIMBLEFINGERS,"   "HAPPY  THOUGHT" 
AND  "PLAY" 


I 


AUTHOR'S  NOTE 

"The  Jolly  Book  of  Boxcraft"  has  been  enlarged 
and  rewritten  from  work  started  in  May,  1909.  This 
work  was  purchased  by  St.  Nicholas,  Little  Folks, 
Good  Housekeeping,  The  Congregationalist  and 
Christian  World,  The  Designer,  Holland's  Maga- 
zine, The  Housekeeper,  The  Ladies'  Home  Journal, 
The  New  York  Herald,  and  The  New  York  Trib- 
une. Thanks  are  due  to  them  for  the  courtesy  of 
using  material  which  was  included  in  their  articles. 

The  author  feels  that  it  is  only  right  to  acknowl- 
edge her  indebtedness  to  the  children  themselves  who 
have  lent  their  toys  and  helped  in  many  little  ways  of 
their  own  toward  the  making  of  this  book.  Special 
thanks  are  due  to  Elizabeth  Hendricks,  Raymon 
Guthrie,  Henry  Jarrett,  Stanley  Hoyt,  and  Wesley 
Meehan,  playfellows. 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Introduction  (Verse) xv 

boxcraft    i 

The  Little  White  Cottage  of  Boxville 9 

The  Boxville  Store 16 

The  District  School  of  Boxville 19 

The  Little  Church  of  Boxville 27 

The  Boxville  Railway  Station 34 

B.  R.  R.  Freight  Station  and  Shoe-box  Tunnel     .     .  40 

Hotel  Bandbox  and  How  to  Furnish  It 43 

The  Shoe-box  Apartment  House 50 

A  Boxville  Residence 53 

The  Boxville  Garage  or  Stable 58 

Making  a  Boxville  Garden 60 

Boxville  Boat-house  or  Yacht  Club 65 

The  Houseboat  "Box  Craft" 68 

Camp  Box  on  Mirror  Lake 7° 

The  Gipsy  Cart  of  Boxville  Highway 73 

The  Shepherd's  Hut  and  the  Sheepfold 77 

Building  a  Box  Bridge 81 

Building  a  Toy  Windmill 83 

Boxville  Barn  and  Farmyard 86 

Box   Brothers'  Animal   Show 89 

ix 


CONTENTS 


PACE 


Circus  Tent  and  Circus  Grounds 92 

Boxtown  Zoo  Garden 96 

Boxtown   Hose   House 98 

How  to  Make  a  Wigwam 100 

Fort  Box io2 

How  to  Build  a  Toy  Castle  and  a  Fairyland  House      .  105 

Boxes  Used  as  Blocks no 

Making  a  Noah's  Ark  for  Cracker  Animals  .     .     .     .114 

Box  Savings-bank  for  Pennies 117 

How  to  Make  a  Toy  Wagon  and  Sled  or  Sleigh  .     .     .119 
The  China  Doll's  Crib,  Go-cart,  and  May  Basket  .  122 

The  Toy  Dog  Kennel  for  a  Toy  Dog 127 

How  to  Make  a  Teddy  Bear's  Wheelbarrow  .     .     .     .129 

Office  Furniture  for  Little  Dolls 131 

How  to  Make  a  Dolls'  Hammock 134 

How  to  Make  a  Theater  or  Punch  Show   .     .     .     .136 

How  to  Make  a  Toy  Merry-go-round 140 

Making  a  Boxcraft  Automobile 143 

How  to  Furnish  a  Doll-house 147 

How  to  Make  the  Boxcraft  Game,  "Ringfling"  .     .154 

The  Game  of  "Shoot  the  Chutes" 157 

The  Boxcraft  Game  "One-Two-I-Catch-You"  .     .     .159 

The  Funny  Game  of  "Mister  Box" 161 

How  to  Make  a  Magic  Box 163 


NOTE 

In  view  of  the  large  number  of  illustrations 
in  this  volume  and  of  the  necessity  for  grouping 
them,  it  is  necessary  for  an  occasional  illustration 
to  appear  at  the  end  of  its  chapter,  or  at  the  end 
of  the  preceding  chapter.  It  is  desirable  there- 
fore that  the  list  of  illustrations  be  consulted  fre- 
quently. 


XI 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

Boxville,  A  Toy  Town  Made  with  Shoe  Boxes  .  Frontispiece 


FACING   TAGE 


Boxville  Cottage   (Outside   View) — Boxville  Cottage 

(Inside  View) 4 

Boxcraft  Materials — An  Unfinished  Boxcraft  Toy   .       5 

The  Village  Store  (Outside  View) — The  Village  Store 

(Inside  View) 18 

The  District  School   (Outside  View) — The  District 

School  (Inside  Vieiu) 19 

Boxville  Church   (Outside  View) — Boxville  Church 

(Inside  View) 32 

Boxville  Railway  Station    (Outside   View) — Boxville 

Railway  Station  (Inside  View) 33 

B.  R.  R.  Freight  Station — Shoe-Box  Tunnel    ...     42 

Bandbox  Hotel  (Outside  View) — Bandbox  Hotel  (In- 
side View) 43 

Boxville  Apartment  House — Box  Furniture  for  the 
Apartment  House 52 

A  Boxville  Residence — The  Garage  for  Boxville  Resi- 
dence     53 

The  Greenhouse  for  Boxville  Garden — The  Pergola 

for  the  Garden 64 

The  Boat-House  or  Yacht  Club — The   Houseboat, 

"Boxcraft" 65 

Camp  Box  on  Mirror  Lake — The  Boxville  Gipsy  Cart     70 

Shepherd's  Hut  and  Sheepfold — The  Box  Bridge      .     78 

xiii 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

FACING  PAGE 

The  Toy  Windmill — Boxville  Barn  and  Farmyard    .     84 

The  Boxcraft  Animal  Show 90 

Box  Brothers'  Circus  Tent — Circus  Cages  and  Booth     91 

Boxtown  Zoo — Boxtown's  Hose  House 96 

Indian  Wigwam — Fort  Box 100 

The  Fairyland  Castle — The  Fairy  House   .      .     .      .108 
Box  Building  with  Box  Blocks — A  Box  Animal  and 

Box  Man 109 

A  Toy  Train  Built  of  Boxes — Boxes  as  Standards  for 

Cut-Outs 112 

A  Noah's  Ark  with  Cracker  Animals — A  Penny  Sav- 
ings-Bank   113 

Wagon  and  Sled — Sleigh 120 

Crib,    Go-Cart,    May    Basket — Express    Wagon    and 

Doll's  Sled 121 

Toy  Dog  Kennel — Toy  Wheelbarrow 128 

Office  Furniture  for  Dolls — A  Doll's  Couch  Ham- 
mock      132 

Dolls'  Theater — The  Toy  Merry-Go-Round    .      .      .138 
Boxcraft    Toy    Automobile     (With     Top) — Boxcraft 

Automobile  [Without  Top) 144 

Doll-House      Furniture:       Bedroom — Tables      and 

Chairs ; 148 

Doll-House  Furniture:  Mantel  and  Settle — Piano 

and  Clock 149 

Doll-House  Furniture:  Dining-room — Kitchen     .      .152 
The    Game,    "Ringfling" — The    Game,    "Shoot    the 

Chutes" 154 

The    Game,    "Mr.    Box"— The    Game,    "One-Two-I- 

Catch-You" 160 


xiv 


DIAGRAM 

One 

Two 

Three, 

A 

Three, 

B 

Three, 

C, 

CC 

Three, 

D, 

E 

Three, 

F, 

G 

Four 

Five 

Six,  A,  AA 
Six,  B 
Six,  C 
Six,  D,  DD 


DIAGRAMS 

PAGE 

How  to  Make  Windows 166 

How  to  Make  Doors 167 

How  to  Make  Side  Walls  Supports  for  a 
Sloping  Roof.  How  to  Cut  a  Hole 
for  a  Chimney 168 

How  to  Make  a  Gable  Roof  out  of  Two 

Box  Covers 169 

How  to  Make  a  Gable  Roof  out  of  Card- 
board and  a  Building  to  Fit     .      .      .170 
How  to    Make   an    Indian   Wigwam   or   a 
Round-Pointed  Roof.     How  to  Make  a 

Tent-shaped  Roof 171 

How  to  Make  Ramparts  for  a  Castle  or 
Fort.      How   to    Make   a  Roof   for   a 

Porch 172 

How    to    Make    a    Bridge    and    a    R.    R. 

Tunnel 173 

How   to   Make   a   Pattern   for   a  Windmill 

Sail 174 

How  to  Make  a  Bench  Form  and  a  Bed  .    175 
How  to  Make  a  High-backed  Bench    .      .176 

How  to  Make  a  Chair 177 

How  to  Make  Tables 178 

xv 


DIAGRAMS 

DIAGRAM  PAGE 

Six,  E,  F  How  to  Make  a  School  Desk  and  a  Piano  179 

Six,  G  How  to  Make  a  Fireplace  and  a  Mantel  .    180 

Seven  How  to  Make  a  Pergola 181 

Eight  How  to  Make  a  Zoo  or  Circus  Cage  .      .182 

Nine  How  to  Make  a  Dolls'  Theater  or  Punch 

Show 183 

Ten                      How  to  Make  a  Sleigh  or  a  Sled  .      .      .184 
Eleven                How  to  Make  the  Boxcraft  Game,  "Ring- 
fling"       185 

Twelve  How  to  Make  the  Boxcraft  Game,  "One- 

Two-I-Catch-You" 186 

Thirteen  How  to  Make  a  Magic  Box     .     .     .     .187 


xvi 


INTRODUCTION 

THE   BOXCRAFT   ROAD 

Near  Jollyplay  in  Boxland,  on  Boxcraft  Road  to  Fun, 
There  lies  a  children's  village — a  very  happy  one. 
Its  buildings  are  all  boxes — the  hotel  and  the  store, 
The  school-house  and  the  station,  and  many  others  more! 
The  name  of  it  is  Boxville.    Its  villagers  are  toys, 
And  those  who  build  in  Boxville  are  merry  girls  and  boys. 
You,  too,  may  go  to  Boxland  to  make  a  house  for  play — 
Look!     Here,  you'll  see  the  guide-post!     Before  you  lies  the  way. 
Take  cardboard  boxes  with  you — maybe,  some  paste  or  glue, 
A  pencil,  and  a  paint-box, — and  take  your  scissors  too. 
I'll  tell  you  all  about  it.    We'll  start — the  turning's  here — 
It  was  a  fairy  told  me  about  this  village,  dear! 

xvii 


THE  JOLLY  BOOK  OF  BOXCRAFT 


The   Jolly   Book  of  Boxcraft 

BOXCRAFT 

Material  Required  to  Make  Boxcraft:  card- 
board  boxes,  paste,  scissors,  crayons  or  water-color 
paints;  perhaps  a  ruler,  and  pencil  will  help. 

Do  you  believe  in  fairies?  I  do.  I  know  three  of 
them,  and  they  are  quite  as  wonderful  as  Cinderella's 
fairy  godmother.  She  could  make  a  coach  and  pair 
out  of  nothing  at  all  but  a  pumpkin  and  some  mice, 
but  the  fairies  that  I  know  can  do  even  better  than 
that!  They  can  make  a  whole  toy  shop  full  of  toys 
from  nothing  at  all  but  some  cardboard  boxes. 

The  fairies  that  I  know  are  called  Happy  Thought, 
Nimblefingers,  and  Play.  They  have  so  much  magic 
that  they  can  transform  even  dull  days  and  make 
them  jolly  ones.  All  three  of  them  came  to  see  me 
one  very  rainy  day,  and  each  of  them  sat  upon  a  card- 
board box  while  they  all  told  me  in  chorus  about  the 
fairy  art  of  boxcraft. 

[i] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK   OF    BOXCRAFT 

"Have  you  ever  noticed  how  much  an  ordinary 
shoe-box  looks  like  a  little  building  with  a  flat  roof?" 
Happy  Thought  inquired. 

"All  you  have  to  do  to  make  it  a  house,"  Nimble- 
fingers  put  in,  "is  to  cut  doors  and  windows  in  its 
sides." 

"And  then,  when  you  have  made  the  house,  you 
have  all  kinds  of  fun  with  it,"  laughed  Play. 

"Boxes  will  make  chimneys  for  your  house," 
Happy  Thought  pursued.  "Boxes  will  make  furni- 
ture— beds,  tables,  chairs,  mantels,  pianos,  benches — 
everything!" 

"You  need  only  to  cut  the  box  rims  to  make  them," 
Nimblefingers  interrupted. 

"And  when  they  are  made — oh,  think  of  the  things 
you  can  use  them  for!"  chuckled  Play. 

"A  whole  village  can  be  made — cottages,  school, 
store,  church,  railway  station,  bridges,  tunnels — 
everything,"  Happy  Thought  went  on. 

"And  all  that  you  need  to  do  it  will  be  a  pair  of 
scissors,  a  pencil,  some  paints,  and  maybe  some  paste. 
I'll  show  you  how,"  Nimblefingers  volunteered. 

"When  the  village  is  made,  all  your  toys  can  play 
in  it!    Haven't  you  some  roly-poly  tumble  toys,  and 

[2] 


BOXCRAFT 

some  penny  dolls,  and  toy  animals?"  Play  demanded. 
"I  know  you  must  have." 

"And  the  village  is  not  all  that  you  can  make  from 
nothing  at  all  but  some  cardboard  boxes.  You  may 
make  almost  any  kind  of  a  toy:  a  theater  for  dolls,  a 
merry-go-round,  an  Indian  wigwam,  and  games,  and 
games,  and  GAMES!" 

So,  the  fairies,  Happy  Thought,  Nimblefingers, 
and  Play,  told  me  how  to  make  all  these  magic  toys 
from  nothing  at  all  but  cardboard  boxes,  and  they 
asked  me  to  tell  the  children  about  it,  so  that  they 
might  know  how  to  change  dull  days  into  bright  and 
happy  ones  when  they  had  learned  of  the  magic. 

Cardboard  boxes  are  to  be  found  everywhere. 
They  are  in  your  home  and  in  everybody's  home. 
Butchers,  bakers,  candlestick  makers,  milliners,  drug- 
gists, jewelers,  stationers,  grocers,  drygoods  firms, 
shoe  stores,  book  stores,  toy  stores,  all  keep  them. 
Everywhere,  everywhere  there  are  cardboard  boxes — 
big  boxes,  little  boxes,  middling-sized  boxes;  wide 
boxes,  narrow  boxes,  deep  boxes,  shallow  boxes; 
round  boxes,  oblong  boxes,  square  boxes!  Boxes, 
boxes,  BOXES  everywhere!  All  you  need  to  do  is 
to  ask  for  them. 

[3] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

People  at  home  are  throwing  them  away.  The 
butchers,  the  bakers,  the  candlestick  makers,  the 
milliners,  the  druggists,  the  jewelers,  the  stationers, 
the  grocers,  and  the  dry  goods  firms,  as  well  as  all 
the  others,  are  constantly  sending  boxes  to  your  home. 
The  shoe  stores,  and  the  book  stores,  and  the  toy 
stores,  and  ever  so  many  others,  are  throwing  boxes 
away  just  because  nobody  seems  to  realize  what 
magic  there  lies  in  them  for  the  children. 

When  Happy  Thought,  Nimblefingers,  and  Play 
first  told  me  about  boxcraft,  I  did  not  find  any  trouble 
in  securing  the  kind  of  box  that  I  needed  for  the 
toy-making.  I  found  that  the  merchants  were  very 
glad  to  give  me  boxes  when  I  asked  for  them.  They 
smiled  when  I  asked.  They  did  not  know  that  a  toy 
circus  tent  could  be  made  from  a  round  hat-box. 
They  did  not  know  that  a  whole  village  might  be 
erected  out  of  six  shoe-boxes! 

Among  the  boxes  given  me  were  three  very  large 
ones.  One  was  deep  and  wide.  It  came  from  the 
milliner's.  It  was  not  a  bandbox,  but  a  box  used  to 
pack  hats  away  in.  In  it  I  kept  all  the  boxes  that 
came  to  me.  The  small  ones  I  packed  inside  the 
large  ones.    It  was  a  simple  matter,  after  that,  to  find 

[4] 


Boxville  Cottage  is  made  from  a  shoe-box. 


Boxville  Cottage  is  furnished  with  boxcraft   furniture. 


Boxcraft  Materials. 


An  unfinished  Boxcraft  Toy. 


BOXCRAFT 

what  I  needed  when  I  wished  to  make  a  table,  or  a 
chair,  or  a  punch  show,  or  a  school-house. 

Another  box  that  was  given  me  was  wide  and  flat. 
Into  it  I  put  all  pretty  papers  that  came  my  way — ■ 
lace  paper,  pinwheel  paper,  sheets  of  waxed  sand- 
wich paper  and  glacine  book  covers,  crape  paper, 
spools,  cotton,  pencils.  Everything  that  could  lie 
flat  went  into  this  wide,  flat  box,  to  be  stored  till 
needed.    This  box  packed  into  the  first  box  easily. 

The  third  box  was  broad,  and  square,  and  deep. 
Into  it  I  packed  the  playthings  I  had  made  after  I 
had  finished  playing  with  them.  It  fitted  into  the 
side  of  the  first  box  above  the  wide  and  flat  one.  All 
these  could  be  put  out  of  sight  in  my  play-closet  when 
night  came  and  it  was  time  to  pick  up. 

These  boxes  I  called  my  treasure  boxes.  I  hope 
you  will  find  three  like  them  and  keep  your  boxcraft 
materials  as  I  kept  mine,  for  Happy  Thought, 
Nimblefingers,  and  Play  told  me  about  the  plan,  and 
I  think  it  is  a  splendid  one. 

If  you  have  some  pretty  samples  of  wall-paper, 
you  can  easily  cover  your  treasure  boxes  with  them. 
There  might  be  some  wall-paper  like  that  in  your 
play-room.     If  so,  this  would  be  the  very  thing. 

[51 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Then,  the  boxes  may  be  placed  anywhere  you  choose 
in  your  room. 

These  treasure  boxes  are  not  meant  to  hold  large 
toys.  It  is  the  little  toys  that  you  will  like  best  to  use 
in  boxcraft  play.  The  toy  figures  and  the  animals 
will  pack  into  very  small  space.  The  corrugated 
cardboard  for  roofs,  the  green  crape  paper  for  grass, 
the  pretty  shells,  pebbles,  and  artificial  flowers  for 
garden  building,  take  but  small  space. 

The  tools  for  your  boxcraft,  scissors,  and  paste,  and 
paint-box,  may  go  into  the  large,  deep  treasure  box 
too. 

Here  in  this  book  you  will  find  the  toys  that  the 
fairies  have  shown  me  how  to  make.  There  are 
many,  many  more.  You  can  try  the  magic  craft  of 
the  fairies  for  yourself  in  your  own  way.  If  your 
boxes  are  not  always  exactly  like  mine,  make  them 
answer  by  adapting  the  general  plan  of  the  toy  to  the 
box  which  you  have.  Learn  to  make  much  out  of 
little.  That  is  the  motto  of  boxcraft  play.  THAT 
is  what  Cinderella's  fairy  godmother  did  when  she 
changed  a  pumpkin  into  a  golden  coach.  That  is 
what  fairies  always  do!  They  find  magic  in  little 
things — so  suppose  you  try  it  too! 

[6] 


BOXCRAFT 

Sing  a  song  of  boxes  and  busy  fingers  too, 

Some  scissors,  and  a  paint-box,  and  just  a  bit  of  glue! 

Sing  a  song  of  playtime  for  happy  girls  and  boys, 
A-snipping  with  their  scissors,  a-making  boxcraft  toys! 


List  of  Materials  which  May  Be  Used 
in  Boxcraft 

Cardboard  boxes.  (To  make  buildings  and 
toys.) 

Corrugated  cardboard.  (To  make  roofs  and 
fences.) 

Plain  cardboard.  (To  use  in  cutting  side  walls, 
roofs,  wheels  for  carriages.) 

Glacine  paper  book-covers.  (To  use  in  making 
window-glass  for  buildings.) 

Colored  pinwheel  papers  and  tissue  papers.  (To 
use  in  decorating  houses.) 

Spools.  (To  make  standards  for  trees  and 
bushes  in  landscape  building,  to  make  flower- 
stands,  cannon,  stools,  tables,  legs  for  dolls' 
beds,  men  for  playing  boxcraft  games.) 

Round-headed  paper-fasteners  of  brass.  (To 
make  door-knobs  and  door-latches  for  build- 
[7] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

ings.    To  fasten  handles  to  baskets.    To  fasten 
wheels  to  vehicles.) 
Pencils.     (To  use  for  pillars  for  buildings.    To 
use  for  making  game-boards.) 

Tools  Used  in  Boxcraft  Play 

Just  a  pair  of  scissors,  some  paste,  and  a  box  of 
crayons  or  water-color  paints. 


[8] 


THE   LITTLE   WHITE   COTTAGE   OF 
BOXVILLE 

Material  Required  for  Making  a  Little  Cottage: 
one  shoe-box  with  its  cover,  a  twelve-inch  square  of 
cardboard,  three  small  boxes,  and  a  bit  of  glacine 
paper  to  make  window-glass. 

Here  is  the  little  Cottage  of  Boxville.  I  think 
The  Old  Woman  Who  Lived  in  a  Shoe  might  better 
have  chosen  to  live  in  a  shoe-box  like  this  than  to 
have  made  her  home  in  an  old  boot!  The  cottage 
certainly  seems  cozy,  and  far  more  comfortable  than 
a  shoe  would  be.  I  know  that  her  children  would 
have  preferred  a  dwelling  like  this.  I  am  sure  you 
like  it  better  yourself,  so  I  am  going  to  tell  you  how 
you  may  build  one  just  like  it. 

Find  a  shoe-box  and  take  its  cover  off.  Set  the  box 
upon  its  side  with  the  bottom  of  the  box  facing  you. 
This  is  to  be  the  front  of  the  cottage. 

Upon  the  front  you  will  need  to  draw  two  windows 
and  a  door.    Take  your  ruler  and  a  pencil.    Measure 

[9] 


THE   JOLLY    BOOK   OF   BOXCRAFT 

a  window  space  two  inches  from  either  end  of  the 
box.  Make  each  window  space  two  inches  wide  and 
two  inches  high.  Half-way  between  these,  draw  a 
door  space  with  its  base  at  the  base  of  the  box.  Make 
the  door  space  two  inches  wide  and  three  inches  and 
a  half  tall. 

Down  the  center  of  each  window  space  from  top 
to  base  of  the  square,  draw  a  line  which  divides  it 
into  half.  This  forms  the  window-blinds,  which 
you  will  need  to  cut  open.  (To  make  window  with 
blinds,  see  Diagram  One,  B,  page  166.)  Cut  top  line. 
Cut  down  the  center  line  and  cut  across  the  base  of 
the  square.  Fold  the  sections  of  cardboard  outward 
against  the  sides  of  your  box,  and  you  will  have  made 
a  window  with  blinds. 

Half-way  between  windows  is  the  door  space. 
(To  cut  door,  see  Diagram  Two,  A,  page  167.)  Cut 
across  the  top  line  of  your  square,  down  one  side  and 
across  the  base.  Fold  the  cardboard  outward,  and 
you  will  have  made  a  door  that  you  can  open  and 
close  at  will. 

If  you  happen  to  have  a  round-headed  paper- 
fastener  that  has  two  pointed  prongs  that  are  meant 
to  press  through  papers  to  keep  them  together,  take 

[10] 


THE   LITTLE    WHITE    COTTAGE 

it  and  press  its  prongs  through  the  little  door  where 
a  door-knob  should  be.  Bend  the  prongs  together  to 
one  side  and  you  will  have  a  door-latch.  By  turning 
the  round  knob,  you  may  fasten  the  door  or  open  it, 
as  you  like. 

The  roof  of  the  cottage  is  supported  upon  two 
pieces  of  cardboard  cut  to  fit  each  end  of  the  box. 
(See  Diagram  Three,  A,  page  168.)  To  make  these, 
take  your  cardboard  and  cut  a  piece  the  width  of  one 
end  of  your  box  and  four  inches  higher.  Make  a 
second  piece  of  cardboard  like  it  to  fit  the  other  end 
of  your  box.  Glue  both  on  the  box,  one  on  each  end. 
Then,  with  scissors,  cut  each  piece  off  diagonally 
downward  from  the  top  at  the  rear  of  the  box  to  the 
front  of  the  box.  This  cuts  off  a  corner  and  makes  a 
sloping  rest  for  each  end  of  the  cottage.  Upon  these 
the  cover  of  the  shoe-box  is  slipped  to  make  half  of 
a  sloping  roof.  (See  Diagram  Three,  AA,  page  168, 
showing  box  cover  placed  upon  side-wall  pieces.) 

Slip  your  box  cover  over  the  two  points,  when 
both  are  thoroughly  dry.  See,  it  makes  the  best  kind 
of  a  roof  for  your  cottage! 

If  you  wish  to  add  a  chimney,  any  long,  narrow 
box  that  is  small  enough  to  form  the  right  proportion 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

to  the  roof  may  be  used.  Measure  its  base  upon  the 
cottage  roof  near  the  top.  Cut  the  cardboard  of  the 
roof  so  that  the  box  end  may  be  slipped  through  it 
and  stand  erect,  and  you  have  a  chimney.  If  you 
use  a  box  which  has  a  sliding  cover  like  a  drawer, 
its  outside  will  be  like  a  real  little  chimrey.  You 
may  mark  off  bricks  upon  it  with  a  pencil,  i  nd  color 
it  bright  red.  A  wad  of  cotton  will  form  the  smoke 
for  a  chimney. 

I  painted  blinds  and  door  of  the  cottage  that  you 
see  in  the  picture.  Blinds  were  green  and  the  door 
was  brown.  You  may  use  almost  any  kind  of  paint 
to  do  this.  The  colors  from  your  water-color  joint- 
ing-box will  answer.  You  may  use  crayons  t  j,  if 
you  like.    Other  paint  takes  somewhat  longer  y. 

It  is  not  so  well  adapted  to  the  building. 

In  front  of  my  cottage,  I  made  a  garden  wii  some 
artificial  flowers  that  had  once  been  on  my  summer 
hat  in  a  wreath.  You  may  easily  make  a  gardn  for 
your  cottage,  or  you  may  have  tubs  of  flowers  like  the 
one  in  the  picture.  It  is  the  lower  half  of  a  pill-box 
filled  with  forget-me-nots. 

The  cottage  is  furnished  with  furniture  cut  from 
small  boxes.     These  may  be  three  inches  long  or 

[12] 


THE    LITTLE    WHITE    COTTAGE 

smaller.  My  furniture  is  all  painted,  but  you  need 
not  paint  yours  unless  you  care  to  do  so. 

The  bed  is  made  from  a  box  and  its  cover.  To 
make  it,  first  take  the  lower  half  of  your  box  and  turn 
it  over  so  that  its  rims  are  below  instead  of  on  top. 
At  each  corner  cut  a  leg  for  the  bed,  and  remove  card- 
board from  between  these  cuttings,  so  that  it  leaves  at 
each  corner  of  the  rim  a  two-sided  leg.  (To  cut  bench 
form,  see  Diagram  Six,  A,  page  175.)  When  you 
have  cut  this  lower  half  of  the  bed,  take  the  cover 
of  your  box  and  turn  it  so  that  its  rims  come  upward 
instead  of  downward.  Remove  the  rims  from  each 
long  side,  and  you  will  have  left  the  head  and  foot- 
board of  the  bed.  Glue  this  piece  to  the  lower  half 
you  first  cut,  and  the  bed  will  be  finished.  Sheets 
and  pillow  may  be  cut  from  tissue  or  lace  paper. 

A  chair  is  made  from  the  lower  half  of  any  small 
box.  Beginning  at  the  center  of  one  long  rim  of  the 
box,  cut  the  rim  off  half-way  around.  The  part  with 
rim  removed  will  be  the  back  of  the  chair.  The  other 
will  be  the  seat  and  legs.  Legs  are  cut  to  right  and 
left  of  each  forward  corner.  Cardboard  is  evenly 
removed  from  between  them.  Rear  legs  are  cut  in 
each  rim  at  the  side  of  the  box  in  the  same  way, 

[13] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

except  that  these  rear  legs  have  but  one  cut  needed. 
They  are  not  cornered  as  the  front  legs  are.  (For 
cutting  a  chair,  see  Diagram  Six,  C,  page  177.) 

A  table  for  the  cottage  is  made  from  a  spool  by 
standing  the  spool  on  end.  Over  its  top  is  placed  the 
half  of  a  small  round  box.  (A  square  box  cover  may 
answer  quite  as  well.)  The  table  may  be  made  from 
an  ordinary  spool,  or  two  twist  spools  glued  end  to 
end.     (For  table,  see  Diagram  Six,  DD,  page  178.) 

A  mantel  with  fireplace  for  the  cottage  may  be  cut 
from  a  small  box  three  inches  high.  Stand  the  box 
on  end  and  cut  from  its  rear,  near  the  base,  an  opening 
like  that  of  a  fireplace.  (For  cutting  a  mantel  with 
fireplace,  see  Diagram  Six,  G,  page  180.)  Use  the 
back  of  the  box,  as  it  has  no  printing  upon  it.  If 
your  box  is  painted,  it  will  not  matter  whether  or  not 
you  make  your  cutting  in  the  front,  as  the  print  will 
not  show  when  cleverly  painted  over. 

In  my  cottage  there  lived  a  tumble  toy  lady.  Her 
name  was  Polly  Ann.  You  can  see  her  in  the  picture 
with  her  china  dog.  You  may  use  roly-poly  tumble 
toys  or  penny  dolls  to  play  with  in  the  cottage. 
Figures  cut  from  magazine  pictures  are  fun  to  use, 
too.    Color  them  with  your  paints  or  crayons. 

[14] 


THE    LITTLE    WHITE    COTTAGE 

Besides  tumble  toys,  Noah's  Ark  figures,  and  pic- 
ture people  cut  from  magazines,  villagers  for  Box- 
ville  cottages  may  be  found  at  any  penny  store  where 
children  trade.  These  are  small  dressed  dolls,  one 
cent  apiece! 

In  candy  shops  where  party  favors  are  sold,  all 
manner  of  small  figures  may  be  bought.  These  are 
odd  little  men  or  women — just  the  very  ones  to  use  in 
playing  Boxville  plays.  At  every  holiday  season, 
new  ones  appear!   You  can  always  find  them. 

I  built  a  tiny  cottage  with  two  windows  and  a  door, 
I  called  it  Boxville  Cottage  and  I  placed  it  on  the  floor : 
All  'round  about  my  cottage,  a  cardboard  village  grew — 
I'll  tell  you  how  to  make  it,  so  that  you  can  make  one  too! 


[»sl 


THE    BOXVILLE    STORE 

Material  Required  for  Making  a  Boxville  Store: 
one  shoe-box  with  two  shoe-box  covers,  two  long 
pencils,  two  spools,  waxed  paper,  and  small  boxes. 

The  village  store  of  Boxville  is  made  from  a  shoe- 
box.  One  shoe-box  cover  makes  the  porch  it  rests 
upon.    Another  forms  the  roof  of  the  store. 

If  you  wish  to  make  a  village  store,  also,  place  a 
shoe-box  upon  its  side,  and  then  the  bottom  of  the 
box  will  become  the  front  of  your  store. 

You  will  need  to  have  a  large  shop  window  in. 
front.  Make  this  first.  Two  inches  from  the  right- 
hand  end  of  the  box,  mark  with  your  pencil  a  wide 
oblong  space  five  inches  by  three.  Cut  out  this 
window  space  on  all  four  sides.  (For  cutting  a 
window  space,  see  Diagram  One,  A,  page  166.) 

Cut  a  piece  of  waxed  paper  a  little  larger  than 
the  size  of  your  window.  Paste  this  inside  the  box 
building  over  the  window  space  to  make  glass.  Cut 
strips  of  pinwheel  paper  and  paste  them  around  the 

[16] 


THE    BOXVILLE    STORE 

window  on  the  outside  of  the  box  to  make  window- 
casings. 

Now  you  are  ready  to  make  a  door  for  your  store. 
Draw  a  door  space  on  your  box  with  your  pencil. 
Make  it  two  inches  from  the  left-hand  end  of  the 
box.  Make  it  four  inches  high  and  two  inches  wide. 
(To  cut  single  door,  see  Diagram  Two,  A,  page  167.) 
Cut  across  the  top  line,  down  the  side  line  that  is 
next  the  window,  and  across  the  base.  When  you 
bend  the  cardboard  you  have  cut,  you  will  have  a 
door  that  will  open  and  close.  Color  the  door,  if 
you  like.    It  may  be  painted  brown. 

After  this,  you  are  ready  to  place  the  roof  on  your 
store;  but  first,  lay  one  of  the  box  covers  upon  its  rims 
on  your  work-table  and  put  the  little  store  upon  it, 
well  back,  so  there  will  be  a  porch  in  front.  Then, 
take  your  other  shoe-box  cover  and  fit  it  over  the  top 
of  the  box  building  so  that  it  projects  over  the  porch 
in  front.  Two  long  pencils,  with  ends  run  into  the 
openings  of  two  spools,  make  pillars  to  place  at  either 
corner  of  the  porch. 

The  step  up  to  the  porch  is  any  small  box  you  may 
have. 

Inside   the   store,   a   long   hat-pin   box   makes   a 

[17] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

counter.  Flowers,  leaves,  pretty  pebbles,  shells,  and 
little  toys  such  as  you  may  find  among  your  own  play- 
things may  be  displayed  upon  the  counter. 

A  roly-poly  tumble  toy  will  make  a  clerk  for  the 
store,  or,  if  you  like,  you  may  find  both  clerk  and 
customers  in  magazine  pictures,  and  you  can  mount 
them  on  thin  cardboard  and  cut  them  out.  There  is 
no  end  to  the  plays  you  can  invent  when  your  store 
is  finished.  Polly  Ann  of  shoe-box  cottage,  Boxville, 
has  just  come  to  the  store  to  buy  a  loaf  of  bread. 
There  it  is — that  pretty  brown  pebble!  Those  green 
leaves  are  vegetables!  The  beads  in  that  box  are 
apples!    The  shells  are  little  cakes! 

To  Boxville!  To  Boxville!  To  have  a  lot  of  fun! 

I'm  going  to  the  general  store  to  buy  a  penny  bun! 

The  bun  is  just  a  pebble  on  the  counter  of  the  store, 

And  the  penny's  made  of  paper,  so,  perhaps,  I'll  make  some  more! 


[18] 


The  Village  Store  made  of  a  shoe-box  and  two  shoe-box  covers. 


Inside  view  of  the  Village  Store.     The  counter  is  a  hatpin  box. 


The  District  School  of  Boxville.     It  is  made  from  a  shoe-box. 


Inside  view  of  the  Boxville  School.  The  desks  are  all  cut  from  small 
oblong  boxes.  The  benches  are  boxes  also ;  and  the  stove  is  a  spool 
with  a  pencil  for  a  stove-pipe. 


THE  DISTRICT  SCHOOL  OF  BOXVILLE 

Material  Required  for  Building  a  Toy  School: 
one  shoe-box  with  its  cover,  a  half-sheet  of  cardboard, 
three  small  boxes  about  three  inches  long,  the  cover 
of  some  narrow  little  box  which  has  an  inner  drawer, 
a  pencil,  a  spool,  and  a  box  two  inches  long. 

Did  you  ever  before  see  a  toy  school-house?  I 
don't  believe  you  have  ever  seen  anything  like  Box- 
ville  School,  so  I  am  going  to  tell  you  how  you  may 
build  one  like  it. 

First,  you  will  need  a  shoe-box  to  form  the  house 
itself.  Its  cover  is  the  roof.  To  this,  at  either  end 
of  the  box,  are  glued  two  side  walls  which  hold  the 
roof  in  place,  slanting.  The  cover  of  some  tiny  nar- 
row box  which  is  made  with  an  inner  drawer  is  the 
chimney.  Inside,  the  desks  are  made  from  the  lower 
parts  of  three  boxes  about  three  inches  long.  Their 
three  covers  make  the  benches.  A  teacher's  desk  may 
be  made  from  any  small  box  you  have.    Its  cover  is 

[■9] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

teacher's  chair.  A  spool  forms  the  stove,  and  a  pen- 
cil is  the  stovepipe. 

Begin  by  taking  the  cover  from  your  shoe-box. 
Place  the  box  upon  the  table  before  you  so  that  it 
stands  upon  one  long  side,  with  its  bottom  part  facing 
you,  open  at  the  back.  The  base  of  your  box,  which 
now  faces  you,  will  be  the  part  of  the  school  which 
will  need  to  have  windows  made  in  it. 

These  two  windows  must  have  blinds.  The 
window  spaces  must  be  located  on  the  face  of  the 
box,  which  fronts  you.  From  these  the  blinds  are 
cut.  Two  inches  from  either  end  of  your  box,  mark 
upon  the  part  which  faces  you  two  oblongs,  each 
three  inches  high  and  two  inches  wide.  Mark  a  ver- 
tical line  down  the  center  of  each  window  space. 
This  forms  the  blinds,  which  you  will  need  to  cut. 
(For  cutting  blinds,  see  Diagram  One,  5,  page  166.) 
Cut  the  top  line,  down  the  center  line,  and  across 
the  base  line.  Press  the  two  sections  of  cardboard 
outward  against  the  sides  of  the  box  building,  and 
you  will  have  made  the  window  with  blinds.  Color 
these  blinds,  if  you  choose.  Use  crayons  or  water- 
color  paints. 

Next,  you  will  need  to  make  the  cardboard  side 

[20] 


THE    DISTRICT    SCHOOL    OF    BOXVILLE 

walls  which  support  the  box-cover  roof.  Take  your 
sheet  of  cardboard  and  measure  with  pencil  outline 
upon  it  the  shape  of  one  end  of  your  box.  Add  to  this 
four  inches  at  the  top,  and  cut  this  piece  from  the 
cardboard  with  its  added  height. 

Make  a  second  piece  of  cardboard  identical  with 
the  first.  Glue  each  to  one  end  of  the  box  upright. 
Cut  from  each  the  front  upper  corner  point.  (See 
Diagram  Three,  A,  page  168,  which  shows  the  shape 
of  the  side  walls  when  cut.) 

Cut  a  door  in  one  of  these  side  walls,  near  its  cen- 
tral part,  where  you  see  the  door  in  the  picture  of 
Boxville  School.  To  make  this,  first  take  pencil  and 
ruler  and  make  an  oblong  four  inches  high  and  two 
inches  wide.  (To  cut  door,  see  Diagram  Two,  A, 
page  167.)  Cut  top  line,  down  one  side  line,  and  across 
the  base  line.  Fold  the  door  outward.  The  card- 
board under  the  door  in  the  side  wall  may  be  cut  out 
the  shape  of  the  door  space.  If  you  do  this,  your 
door  will  bend  open  more  easily. 

If  you  happen  to  have  a  round-headed  paper-fas- 
tener, press  its  pointed  prongs  through  the  little  door 
where  a  door-knob  should  go.  The  round  head  of 
the  paper-fastener  will  form  a  door-knob.  Its  prongs, 

[21] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

bent  to  one  side,  form  the  latch.  It  will  catch  the 
door  securely  when  the  "door-knob"  is  turned. 

Now  that  the  lower  part  of  the  school  building  is 
finished,  you  may  begin  upon  the  roof.  This  is  the 
box  cover.  Place  it  upon  the  points  of  the  side  walls 
so  that  it  fits  down  upon  them.  You  will  readily  see 
how  this  is.  (For  placing  a  roof  on  a  shoe-box  build- 
ing, see  Diagram  Three,  AA,  page  168.) 

When  the  roof  is  placed,  you  will  be  able  to  judge 
where  the  chimney-hole  should  be  cut  in  the  box- 
cover  roof.  It  should  go  near  the  top  at  the  end  of 
the  box  that  is  opposite  the  door.  The  cover  of 
some  narrow  box  which  has  a  sliding  inner  drawer 
will  make  the  chimney.  It  will  be  just  the  right 
shape,  square  and  hollow. 

Mark  off  upon  the  sides  of  this  box  the  bricks  of 
the  chimney.  Color  them  red,  if  you  like.  If  you 
use  a  ruler,  the  work  is  easily  and  quickly  done.  You 
do  not  need  to  mark  the  bricks  unless  you  like.  Your 
box  may  be  painted  merely. 

To  place  it  on  the  roof,  you  will  need  to  cut  out  of 
the  school-house  roof  a  piece  of  cardboard  the  size 
of  the  end  of  your  box.  Decide  where  the  chimney 
should  go.    Mark  the  end  of  it  with  pencil  upon  the 

[22] 


THE    DISTRICT    SCHOOL    OF    BOXVILLE 

roof  at  this  point.  Cut  the  cardboard  out.  (For 
cutting  hole  for  chimney  in  a  box-cover  roof,  see  Dia- 
gram Three,  A  A,  page  168.)  Press  the  end  of  the 
chimney  down  through  this  hole.  Press  the  chim- 
ney backward  to  make  it  stand  straight,  and  glue  it. 
Some  tiny  bit  of  cotton  stuffed  into  the  upper  hole 
of  the  chimney  box  will  form  smoke. 

Of  course,  you  will  be  anxious  to  furnish  your 
school-house  inside.  You  may  make  it  like  a  real 
district  school  such  as  you  see  in  the  country.  It  will 
have  desks,  benches,  a  stove,  and  a  blackboard — to 
say  nothing  of  a  teacher's  desk  and  chair! 

The  lower  halves  of  the  three  small  boxes  form 
desks.  It  is  really  a  simple  matter  to  make  these. 
They  are  the  kind  that  have  a  shelf  beneath  the  top. 
They  are  open. 

Take  the  lower  half  of  one  of  these  boxes.  Place 
it  upon  one  of  its  long  rims.  The  upper  rim  will  be 
the  top  of  the  desk.  The  ends  of  the  box  will  need  to 
be  cut  the  shape  of  the  sides  of  a  desk.  (For  cutting 
a  desk  out  of  a  small  oblong  cardboard  box,  see  Dia- 
gram Six,  E,  page  179.) 

Fit  a  bit  of  box  rim  beneath  the  top  of  the  desk 
where  the  shelf  should  go,  and  glue  its  ends  to  the  box 

[23] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

desk.  The  desk  may  be  painted  black,  if  you  choose. 
Make  the  two  other  desks  like  this  one. 

The  benches  are  next  cut  from  the  box  covers. 
To  make  a  bench,  make  a  cut  with  scissors  in  each 
box  rim  at  the  center  of  each  end  of  the  box.  Cut 
each  as  far  as  the  upper  part  of  the  cover.  Half  the 
box  will  be  the  back  of  the  bench.  Half  will  be  the 
seat  and  legs. 

First,  cut  the  legs.  Then  bend  the  other  half  of 
the  box  upward,  cut  of!  the  side  piece  at  either  end 
of  the  box,  bend  the  long  rim  upward.  This  will 
make  a  bench  with  high  back.  (For  cutting  the  legs 
of  bench  and  its  high  back,  see  Diagram  Six,  B,  page 
176.)  In  following  diagrams,  always  cut  where  you 
see  the  heavy  black  line.  Bend  where  you  see  a 
dotted  line.  The  bench  may  be  painted  to  match  the 
desks.    Make  other  benches  like  the  first  one. 

The  teacher's  desk  is  made  from  the  lower  half  of 
another  box — one  about  two  inches  long.  It  is  made 
like  a  table,  except  that  no  legs  are  cut  in  its  end 
rims.  (For  cutting  a  bench  form  for  the  teacher's 
desk,  see  Diagram  Six,  A,  page  175.)  The  desk  may 
be  painted,  if  you  like. 

The  chair  for  this  desk  is  cut  from  the  cover  of 

[24] 


THE    DISTRICT    SCHOOL    OF    BOXVILLE 

the  same  box  that  made  the  desk.  Cut  the  cover's  rim 
half  off  the  box,  beginning  at  the  center  on  one  long 
side.  The  part  of  the  cover  left  without  rim  will  be 
the  back  of  the  chair.  Cut  legs  at  the  corners  of  the 
other  half  of  the  cover  and  at  each  side  on  the  rim. 
Remove  the  surplus  cardboard  from  between  them. 
(To  cut  chair,  see  Diagram  Six,  C,  page  177.)  Color 
the  chair  to  match  desks  and  benches. 

Your  school  is  almost  done.  The  stove  will  need 
to  be  put  up — I'm  quite  sure  that  you  never  heard  of 
a  district  school-house  without  a  stove!  It  is  as  much 
a  part  of  a  district  school  as  the  dipper  and  the  water- 
pail  used  to  be.  The  stove  of  this  toy  school  is  just 
a  spool  painted  black.  Place  it  under  the  chimney, 
with  the  point  of  a  long  pencil  run  into  its  upper  hole 
to  represent  a  stovepipe.  There!  That  is  easy  to 
do,  I  am  sure! 

The  blackboard  is  a  piece  of  black  pinwheel  paper 
cut  oblong  and  pasted  between  the  windows.  If  you 
have  some  old  time-table  in  your  home,  perhaps  you 
will  find  in  it  a  small  map  that  may  be  cut  out  and 
pasted  to  the  walls  of  the  school. 

You  can  make  text-books  by  folding  pieces  of 
paper  together.    These  can  be  placed  inside  the  desks. 

[251 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Penny  dolls  make  excellent  scholars.  A  tumble 
toy  figure  may  make  a  schoolmistress  or  a  school- 
master. 

In  the  picture  of  Boxville  School,  you  can  see  three 
penny  dolls  and  my  tumble  toy  schoolmistress.  The 
dolls  are  at  recess.  Violet  is  trying  to  do  a  sum  at  the 
board.  Pansy  is  pretending  to  be  "teacher."  Lily 
has  just  finished  her  luncheon. 

When  does  your  school  open?  Now!  The  scholars 
will  have  to  hurry  or  they'll  be  late! 

I  made  a  little  Boxville  School,  and  now  in  it  each  day 
I'm  educating  penny  dolls,  and  it  is  splendid  play! 
I  teach  them  all  my  lessons  every  day  when  I  am  through — 
They  have  finished  with  my  reader,  and  can  divide  by  two. 


[26] 


THE  LITTLE  CHURCH  OF  BOXVILLE 

Material  Required  for  Making  a  Boxville 
Church:  one  shoe-box  with  its  cover,  one  narrow 
box  about  six  or  seven  inches  long,  one  oblong  box 
cover  three  or  four  inches  long,  three  small  box 
covers  of  about  the  same  size  (three  inches),  a 
twelve-inch  square  of  cardboard,  and  some  colored 
tissue-paper,  with  a  spool. 

Ding!  Ding!  Can  you  hear  the  bell  in  the  steeple 
of  the  Boxville  Church  ringing?  It  does  not  ring 
very  loud,  because  it  is  such  a  small  bell,  but  it  does 
ring  beautifully!  You  can  try  it  yourself.  Suppose 
that  you  make  a  little  church  like  this  for  your 
village! 

Take  a  shoe-box.  Remove  its  cover.  Lay  the  shoe- 
box  upon  one  long  side  rim.  The  bottom  of  the  box 
will  become  the  side  of  the  church.  It  will  need  to 
have  three  long  windows  cut  in  it. 

Draw  these  window  spaces  long  and  narrow,  about 

[27] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

one  inch  wide  and  three  inches  high.  Cut  the  two 
end  windows  equally  distant  from  the  ends  of  the 
box,  and  draw  the  outline  of  the  center  window  mid- 
way between  these  two.  Cut  the  cardboard  at  the 
top  of  the  window  spaces  to  a  point.  (For  cutting 
windows,  see  Diagram  One,  A,  page  166.) 

If  you  have  some  colored  tissue-paper,  you  may 
eut  three  pieces  the  same  shape  as  the  window  spac~" 
you  have  cut  out.  Let  them  be  a  little  wider  ai 
longer,  however.  Paste  each  inside  the  box  right  o^ 
the  open  window  spaces.  This  will  make  stain, 
glass  windows.  You  can  paint  the  window-casiti 
with  black  ink,  or  paint  on  the  outside  of  the  u 
around  the  windows. 

If  you  prefer,  you  can  make  the  window-c; 
by  pasting  narrow  strips  of  pinwheel  paper  around 
the  windows,  instead  of  using  the  paint. 

The  Boxville  Church,  as  you  can  see,  has  a  si  ping 
roof.  This  roof  is  the  cover  of  the  shoe-box  supported 
on  two  side  walls,  which  are  made  of  cardboard  and 
glued  to  each  end  of  the  box.  You  will  need  to  cut 
these  side  walls.    (See  Diagram  Three,  A,  page  168.) 

Measure  the  exact  width  and  height  of  your  box 
on  the  twelve-inch  square  of  cardboard.     Measure 

[28] 


THE    LITTLE    CHURCH    OF    BOXVILLE 

one  end  only,  and  place  the  end  of  the  box  so  that  it 
comes  at  the  edge  of  your  cardboard.  At  the  top,  add 
four  inches  to  the  height,  and  cut  out  this  oblong  piece 
you  have  drawn.  Make  another  like  it.  Next,  cut  off 
the  two  front  upper  corners  diagonally  down  to  the 
mark  you  first  made,  showing  the  height  of  your  box 
building  at  the  front  of  your  box. 

Cut  a  church  door  in  one  of  these  sides.  Make  it 
rather  high — about  the  height  of  the  church  windows. 
Let  the  base  of  the  door  come  at  the  lower  edge  of  the 
side  wall.  Cut  up  through  the  cardboard  vertically 
for  about  three  inches.  Then  cut  the  arch  of  the  door 
and  bend  as  if  it  were  on  a  hinge.  (See  Diagram 
Two,  A,  page  167,  for  cutting  door.) 

Paste  each  side  wall  in  place  on  the  box  building 
so  that  the  points  of  each  come  at  the  rear  of  the  box. 
When  the  side  walls  are  firmly  dry,  cut  out  the  card- 
board that  is  under  the  door  space  of  the  side  wall. 
The  roof  is  not  quite  ready  to  go  on  yet,  however.  You 
will  first  need  to  arrange  for  the  steeple  or  bell  tower. 

Take  the  cover  of  your  shoe-box  and  also  the  oblong 
box  you  intend  to  use  for  a  steeple.  This  may  be  either 
a  long  candy  box,  such  as  chocolate  peppermints 
are  often  sold  in  in  drug  stores,  or  it  may  be  a  box 

[29] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

such  as  jewelers  use  for  hat-pins.  The  tower  of  the 
church  should  come  over  the  door.  Near  the  top 
corner  of  the  shoe-box  cover  which  is  to  be  the  roof 
of  the  church,  mark  off  the  shape  of  one  end  of  the 
oblong  box  which  is  to  be  the  tower.  Cut  out  this 
square  from  the  shoe-box  roof,  and  cut  out  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  more  at  the  bottom,  otherwise  your 
steeple  will  not  stand  exactly  straight. 

Now,  slip  the  roof  over  the  points  of  the  side  walls. 
See!  that  is  it!  And,  next,  slip  the  tower  in  place 
down  through  the  opening  which  comes  in  the  roof 
over  the  door.    (See  Diagram  Three,  AA,  page  168.) 

If  your  tower  is  to  have  a  bell,  you  can  buy  a  bell 
at  almost  any  toy  store.  It  will  probably  cost  you  a 
penny.  You  will  need  to  cut  openings  in  the  upper 
part  of  the  bell-tower  box.  Cut  one  on  each  side,  as 
you  see  it  in  the  picture  of  my  Boxville  Church.  The 
belfry  windows  will  be  cut  like  ordinary  square  win- 
dows, except  for  a  point  at  the  top.  (For  cutting 
plain  windows,  see  Diagram  One,  A,  page  166.) 

The  bell  is  next  tied  like  a  locket  to  a  double  cord 
or  bit  of  string.  One  end  of  this  string  is  used  to 
fasten  the  bell  to  the  top  of  the  tower.  It  is  sewed, 
with  the  help  of  a  large  darning-needle,  to  the  card- 

[30] 


THE    LITTLE    CHURCH    OF    BOXVILLE 

board  top  of  the  belfry.  The  other  end  of  the  cord 
will  be  the  bell-rope,  and  this  goes  down  through  the 
cardboard  at  the  base  of  your  tower  box  and  through 
the  cardboard  at  the  top  of  the  shoe-box  building.  It 
can  be  threaded  to  the  darning-needle  and  pressed 
through  the  holes  made  by  the  needle  till  its  end  hangs 
down  into  the  church  vestibule,  as  you  see  it  in  the 
picture.  When  you  let  the  sexton  pull  this  bell-rope, 
ding,  ding  goes  the  bell,  and  the  noise  that  it  makes 
is  just  the  right  size  for  a  Boxville  Church! 

Now  you  are  ready  to  furnish  the  inside  of  your 
church.  Begin  with  the  platform  for  the  pulpit.  This 
is  the  box  cover  you  have — the  one  about  three  or 
four  inches  long.  Place  it  where  the  platform  should 
go,  opposite  the  door.  The  spool  will  be  the  pulpit. 
Paste  a  little  round  cardboard  disk  over  the  opening 
at  one  end  of  the  spool,  and  this  will  be  the  top  of  the 
pulpit.    Paint  the  spool  black. 

Use  a  long,  narrow  box  cover  for  the  pulpit  chair. 
(See  Diagram  Six,  C,  page  177.)  Cut  the  rim  from 
box  cover,  beginning  near  the  center  on  one  long  side. 
Cut  till  you  have  reached  the  point  opposite.  The 
part  of  the  cover  from  which  the  rim  has  been  re- 
moved will  be  the  back  of  the  chair.  Bend  it  forward. 

[31] 


THE   JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

The  other  half  of  the  cover  will  be  the  seat  of  the 
chair.  Legs  are  cut  in  the  front  rim  and  in  the  side 
rims  that  remain.  To  make  front  legs,  keep  the  cor- 
ners of  the  box,  and  cut  up  to  the  part  which  is  the 
seat,  the  upper  part  of  the  cover.  R<.  nove  the  card- 
board from  between  these  two  cutting?.  Then,  make 
the  back  legs  of  the  chair  in  the  box  rims  at  side. 
Place  the  little  chair  back  of  the  pulpir,  and  color  it, 
if  you  wish,  to  match. 

At  least  three  pews  will  be  needed  for  the  church. 
They  are  to  be  made  from  the  three  small  box  covers. 
(See  Diagram  Six,  B,  page  176,  for  making  high- 
backed  benches.) 

With  a  pencil  or  pin-point,  mark  the  center  of  each 
short  rim  on  these  box  covers.  Then,  taking  one 
cover,  cut  through  the  rim  at  the  two  points  till  you 
have  reached  the  top  of  the  cover.  Half  of  the 
division  made  will  be  for  the  back  of  the  bench  and 
half  for  the  seat  and  the  legs.  Cut  the  legs  in  one  half 
as  you  cut  the  legs  for  the  pulpit  chair.  Remove 
from  the  other  half  of  the  cover  the  remaining  end 
rim.  Bend  the  rim  that  is  left  at  the  top  upward,  to 
make  the  high  back  of  the  bench,  and  color  the  bench 
to  match  the  pulpit  and  chair. 

[32] 


Boxville   Church   is   made   from  a   shoe-box.     Its  bell-tower  is  an  oblong 
box.     It  has  stained  glass  windows  of  red  tissue-paper. 


Boxville  Church   lias  a  pulpit,  reading  desk,  and  pews  that  arc  made  in 
boxcraft  style  from  boxes  and  a  spool. 


Boxville  Railway  Station  is  built  from  a  shoe-box  and  four  shoe-box 
covers.  Pencils  are  used  for  pillars  that  hold  the  long  roof  of  the 
platform  in  place. 


Inside  view   of   Boxville   Railway   Station.     This    shows   the   ticket   booth 
made  from  a  shallow  box  about  four  inches  square. 


THE    LITTLE    CHURCH    OF    BOXVILLE 

Place  the  benches  one  behind  the  other  inside  the 
church.  Let  the  sexton  ring  the  bell  for  Sunday- 
school  to  begin.  What  was  the  lesson  you  had  last 
Sunday?  Do  you  remember  about  it?  Perhaps  you 
might  not  so  easily  forget  next  Sunday's  lesson,  if  you 
taught  it  yourself  to  a  class  of  penny  dolls  in  a  Box- 
ville  Church  like  this.    Anyway,  you  can  try! 

Boxville  dolls  on  Sunday  go 
To  this  Boxville  Church,  just  so! 
Two  by  two,  as  couples  should, 
Boxville  dolls  are  always  good ! 

Little  Boxville,  as  you  see, 

Is  as  good  as  it  can  be: 

Little  girls  and  little  boys, 

Learn  this  text  from  Boxville  toys! 


[33] 


THE  BOXVILLE  RAILWAY  STATION 

Material  Required  for  Making  a  Boxville  Rail- 
way Station:  one  shoe-box  and  four  shoe-box  cov- 
ers, one  small  box  about  four  inches  square  and  with- 
out a  cover,  the  shallow  covers  of  two  small  boxes 
three  inches  long,  two  long  pencils,  and  a  small  square 
of  waxed  paper. 

Boxville's  Railway  Station  is  a  real  railway  station. 
It  is  not  a  tin  thing  such  as  you  buy  ready-made  in  a 
toy  shop.  Boxville  Station  has  a  waiting-room  with 
a  real  ticket  booth  and  benches.  You  can  make  just 
the  same  kind  of  little  station  as  you  see  in  this  pic- 
ture.   It  is  easy  to  make. 

The  building  itself,  you  see,  is  the  lower  half  of  a 
shoe-box  placed  upon  its  side.  The  platform  is  made 
of  two  shoe-box  covers  placed  end  to  end  upon  the 
floor,  and  the  roof  of  the  station  is  one  shoe-box  cover. 
The  other  shoe-box  cover  is  the  roof  of  the  platform, 
and  this  is  supported  by  two  long  lead-pencils. 

Do  you  want  to  make  a  Boxville  Station?     To 

[34] 


THE    BOXVILLE    RAILWAY    STATION 

begin,  you  must  make  two  doors  and  a  window  on 
the  part  of  your  box  that  is  the  front  of  the  station. 

About  an  inch  and  a  half  from  either  end  of  your 
box,  mark  a  door  space  four  inches  high  and  two 
inches  wide.  Use  a  pencil  and  ruler  for  the  work, 
so  that  it  will  be  even.  Half-way  between  the  door 
spaces  you  have  drawn,  mark  off  an  oblong  window 
space  two  inches  high  and  three  inches  wide.  Now, 
you  can  take  your  scissors  and  cut  the  doors  in  the 
box.  (To  cut  doors,  see  Diagram  Two,  A,  page 
167.)  Cut  the  top  line  of  each  door  space.  Cut  the 
bottom  line  also.  The  doors  must  open  toward  each 
other,  so  cut  each  door  space  down  the  side  next  to  the 
window  space.    Push  each  little  door  inward. 

Next,  cut  out  the  window  space.  Cut  it  around 
on  all  four  sides,  and  keep  to  the  line  you  have  drawn 
with  pencil.  (To  cut  window,  see  Diagram  One,  A, 
page  166.)  When  you  have  finished  this,  take  a  piece 
of  the  waxed  paper  you  have  and  paste  it  inside  the 
station  building  over  the  window  space  to  make  win- 
dow-glass. The  waxed  paper  should  be  cut  a  bit 
longer  and  wider  than  the  opening  of  the  window. 
You  can  measure  it  by  the  cardboard  piece  you  cut 
from  the  box. 

[35] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

If  you  wish,  you  may  color  the  doors  of  your 
station  building  green  or  brown.  Use  whatever  colors 
you  have,  but  if  you  use  your  water-colors,  keep  the 
work  as  dry  as  you  can.  If  you  do  not,  the  doors  will 
not  be  straight.    They  will  curl. 

Place  two  shoe-box  covers  end  to  end  upon  the  floor 
or  table,  for  you  can  put  the  building  upon  them  now. 
See,  it  is  placed  far  back,  so  that  there  will  be  a  plat- 
form in  front.  Place  the  building  at  the  left  of  the 
platform  made  of  the  shoe-box  covers. 

The  third  shoe-box  cover  is  the  roof  of  the  station 
building,  and  you  must  fit  it  down  over  the  station. 
If  you  wish  to  have  a  roof  over  your  station  platform, 
you  will  need  the  fourth  shoe-box  cover  to  make  this. 
To  secure  it  in  place,  just  cut  two  end  corners  on 
the  box  rim  as  far  as  the  top  of  the  cover.  Then, 
turn  this  end  rim  upward  and  slip  it  under  the  right- 
hand  rim  of  the  cover  which  forms  the  roof  of  the 
station  building  itself.  You  will  need  two  pillars  at 
the  right-hand  end  of  your  platform  to  keep  the  long 
roof  up.  These  pillars  are  long  lead-pencils.  Press 
the  point  of  a  pencil  down  through  each  right-hand 
top  corner  of  the  long  station  platform's  top,  and 
secure  the  points  below  by  running  them  into  stan- 

[361 


THE    BOXVILLE    RAILWAY    STATION 

dards  made  of  spools.  The  pencil  point  will  be  firm 
when  run  into  the  upper  hole  of  a  standing  spool,  and 
when  both  pillars  are  so  fixed,  the  roof  will  be  quite 
firm.     (See  Diagram  Three,  G,  page  172.) 

Next,  make  a  signboard  for  your  station,  and  glue 
it  to  the  roof. 

You  will  need  to  have  a  bench  or  two  and  a  ticket 
office  in  your  station  building.  A  little  doll  can  be 
placed  in  the  ticket  office.  If  you  look  at  the  picture 
of  my  Boxville  Station,  you  will  see  a  lady  buying 
her  ticket  of  the  ticket  agent. 

The  ticket  booth  is  the  lower  half  of  a  box  that  is 
about  four  inches  wide  and  an  inch  or  so  deep.  You 
will  need  to  stand  it  on  its  rim  and  cut  a  window  in 
the  part  of  the  box  that  is  the  front  of  the  ticket  office. 
You  do  this  just  as  you  cut  the  window  for  your 
station,  only  you  must  make  the  ticket-booth  window 
smaller.  Draw  the  outline  of  the  window  first  with 
help  of  pencil  and  ruler.  Then  cut  it  out.  To  cut 
window,  see  Diagram  One,  A,  page  166.)  When 
window  is  cut,  paste  some  waxed  paper  over  the  win- 
dow opening  on  the  inside  of  the  box.  Cut  a  round 
opening  in  this,  near  the  bottom.  The  ticket  agent 
will  need  this,  you  see.     Now,  the  ticket  booth  is 

[37] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

finished!    Place  it  between  the  doors  where  it  should 

go- 
You  will  need  a  bench  at  either  end  of  the  station 

waiting-room.     Cut  these  from  covers  of  two  boxes 

three  inches  long.    (For  cutting  benches,  see  Diagram 

Six,  B,  page  176.)     With  pencil  or  pin-point  mark 

a  dot  at  the  center  of  each  short  end  rim  of  the  covers, 

and  cut  through  each  rim  thus  marked  till  you  have 

reached  the  top  of  the  cover.    Half  of  each  division 

so  made  will  be  the  high  back  of  the  bench.     Half 

will  form  the  seat  and  legs.     Cut  legs  in  the  rim  of 

one  end.    Leave  the  corners  at  the  front  of  the  bench 

and   remove   the  cardboard   that  is  between   them, 

making  your  cutting  to  the  right  and  left  of  each 

front  corner.     Then  cut  the  rear  legs  in  both  side 

rims.    Bend  the  other  half  of  each  box  upward.    This 

is  to  be  the  high  back.     Cut  off  the  little  pieces  of 

cardboard  that  are  left  on  the  narrow  end  rims.  Bend 

what  is  left  of  the  cover's  rim  upward  to  make  the 

rest  of  the  high  back  for  each  bench.     Color  the 

benches  black  or  brown. 

Toot-too!     Don't  you  hear  the  whistle  of  the  toy 

train?     The  baggage,  that  is  made  up  of  boxes,  is 

[38] 


THE   BOXVILLE    RAILWAY    STATION 

waiting  on  the  station  platform,  and  the  little  dolls 
are  ready  to  start  on  their  travels. 

Miss  Doll  is  waiting  on  the  station  platform.  She 
has  just  purchased  her  return  ticket  to  Boxtown. 

Boxtown  is  the  next  stop.  Everybody  goes  there 
on  Circus  Day  —  Mr.  Doll,  Mr.  Mulligan,  Mr. 
Swartzenheimer,  Polly  Ann,  Susan  Smith,  all  the 
Noahs!    The  station  platform  is  crowded! 

When  all  the  sky  is  dark  with  storm, 

Then  with  my  train  I  play. 
I  build  a  Boxville  Station, 

And  I  stay  indoors  all  day. 

It  is  always  pleasant  weather 

When  you're  happy  as  can  be; 
And  when  I'm  playing  Boxville, 

There's  no  storm  that  /  can  see! 


[39] 


B.  R.  R.   FREIGHT  STATION  AND  SHOE- 
BOX  TUNNEL 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Boxville  Freight 
Station:  one  shoe-box  cover,  one  shallow  cover  of 
a  box  about  eight  or  nine  inches  long  and  seven  or 
eight  inches  wide,  and  the  lower  half  of  a  deep  box 
about  six  inches  long  and  four  or  five  inches  wide. 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Dark  Tunnel  for 
B.  V.  R.  R. :    the  lower  half  of  an  ordinary  shoe-box. 

After  you  have  built  your  Boxville  Railway  Sta- 
tion, I  am  sure  you  will  like  to  build  a  Freight  Station 
for  your  railway  system.  You  will  have  so  much 
freight  to  go  from  Boxville!  There  is  no  end  to  the 
little  boxes!  It  will  take  you  about  five  minutes,  or 
less,  to  build  the  freight  station.  It  is  so  simple  that 
you  can  almost  see  how  from  looking  at  the  picture. 
The  shoe-box  cover  is  the  platform.  The  lower  half 
of  the  deep  box  you  have  is  turned  upside-down  and 
placed  upon  the  left  end  of  the  shoe-box  cover.    A 

[40] 


FREIGHT    STATION    AND    TUNNEL 

double  door  is  outlined  with  pencil  at  one  end  of  this 
box.  (See  Diagram  Two,  B,  page  167,  for  double 
door.)  Mark  a  square  three  inches  wide  on  the  end 
of  the  box  where  the  door  should  come.  Draw  down 
the  center  of  this  from  top  line  to  lower  line.  This 
gives  the  two  divisions  of  the  door.  Cut  the  top  line 
of  the  door  space.  Cut  down  the  center  line  of  it  and 
across  the  lower  line.  Bend  the  two  doors  of  the 
doorway  outward.    Color  them,  if  you  like. 

To  make  the  square  flat  roof,  take  the  box  cover 
and  place  it  down  over  the  freight  building  at  the 
top.  That  is  an  easy  way  to  make  a  roof,  isn't  it? 
And  now  that  the  freight  office  is  made,  I  am  sure 
you  will  agree  that  it  is  a  very  fine  one  indeed.  Isn't 
it  fun  to  build  your  own? 

Do  you  want  to  have  me  tell  you  how  to  make  a 
tunnel  too?  It  will  be  fine  to  have  one  for  your  rail- 
way system.  To  make  one  you  will  need  a  box — 
almost  any  that  is  deep,  like  a  shoe-box,  will  answer. 

How  high  is  the  smoke-stack  of  your  train?  Two 
inches?  Well,  how  high  is  it  from  the  ground?  Five? 
Then,  the  holes  made  for  the  tunnel  opening  in  either 
end  of  the  box  will  need  to  be  higher  still  by  an  inch 
or  a  half-inch.     (For  cutting  a  tunnel,  see  Diagram 

[41] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK   OF    BOXCRAFT 

Four,  B,  page  173.)  Turn  your  box  over.  The  lower 
half  is  the  only  part  you  will  need  to  use,  so  put 
aside  the  cover.  In  either  end  of  the  box  cut  out  a 
round  opening  large  enough  for  your  toy  train  to 
pass  through  at  a  sixty-miles-a-minute  rate.  There 
is  your  tunnel! 

If  you  have  any  crape  paper,  you  can  cover  the 
sides  and  top  of  your  box  so  that  it  will  look  like  a 
big  square  hill.  The  ends  of  the  box  should  be  painted 
with  black  paint  to  look  like  stone  masonry. 

Let's  see  how  well  your  train  goes  through  the 
tunnel — toot-too!  Here  it  goes!  Isn't  that  the  nicest 
toy  you  ever  saw? 

Little  bits  of  boxes  make  a  pile  of  freight 
For  my  Boxville  Railway.     It  is  simply  great! 
Just  a  cardboard  shoe-box  makes  a  tunnel  too — 
Very  black  an'  spooky  when  my  train  goes  through! 


[42] 


The  B.R.R.  Freight  Station.  It  is  a  small  oblong  box  with  a  cover  of 
another  box  for  its  roof.  The  platform  is  a  shoe-box  cover  and 
the  freight  is  little  boxes. 


Shoe-box  Tunnel  may  be  made  of  almost  any  long  box.     To  make  it,  cut 
rounded  openings  in  the  end  rims  oi   the  box. 


Bandbox  Hotel  is  made  of  a  square  hat-box. 


Bandbox  Hotel  has  an  opening  at  the  back  so  that  one  may  play  inside 
easily.  Partitions  of  rooms  are  made  with  shoe-boxes  from  which 
end  rims  have  been  removed. 


HOTEL  BANDBOX  AND  HOW  TO 
FURNISH  IT 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Hotel  Bandbox: 

one  large  bandbox  with  its  cover,  the  cover  of  another 
square  bandbox  that  is  larger.  These  make  the  build- 
ing and  its  roof.  A  shallow  box  cover  will  make  the 
roof  over  the  front  door.  Two  long  pencils  are 
pillars.  The  hotel  is  furnished  with  furniture  cut 
from  small  boxes.  Spools,  lace-paper,  pinwheel  paper, 
bits  of  wall-paper,  and  the  glacine  paper  covers  from 
books  may  all  be  used. 

Did  you  ever  before  hear  of  a  dolls'  hotel?  If  you 
look  at  the  picture  of  Hotel  Bandbox,  you  will  see 
one  that  may  be  made  from  a  square  hat-box.  Its 
porch  is  a  large  hat-box  cover.  The  building  is  a 
hat-box,  smaller  than  this  cover.  The  roof  of  the 
hotel  is  the  cover  of  the  hat-box  itself. 

Windows  and  front  door  are  cut  in  the  rims  of  the 
bandbox. 

[43] 


THE   JOLLY   BOOK   OF   BOXCRAFT 

In  starting  to  make  a  hotel,  begin  by  marking  off 
windows.  Each  window  must  be  two  inches  wide 
and  three  inches  high.  It  will  help  you  to  place 
windows  evenly  if  you  mark  a  horizontal  line  around 
three  sides  of  your  bandbox  about  three  inches  from 
the  top  of  the  box.  Use  a  ruler,  and  make  all  marks 
as  light  as  possible.  They  are  only  intended  to  guide 
you,  and  must  be  rubbed  out  after  you  have  cut  out 
the  window  spaces. 

Below  the  line  you  have  drawn,  make  another, 
three  inches  farther  down  the  sides  of  the  box.  This 
line  forms  the  base  of  windows. 

Next,  make  the  windows  that  come  nearest  each 
corner  of  the  box.  Measure  two  inches  from  each 
corner.  This  gives  the  right  spacing  from  the  corner. 
Measure  two  inches  more  on  your  horizontal  line  at 
the  top  of  the  building,  and  this  will  give  the  width 
of  a  window.  Make  the  end  windows  first.  Then 
make  the  ones  that  come  between.  Space  evenly,  so 
that  windows  may  come  at  regular  intervals.  Cut 
out  each  window  on  all  four  sides.  (For  cutting  a 
window,  see  Diagram  One,  A,  page  166.)  Arrange 
your  lower  story  windows  as  you  have  the  upper  ones. 

At  the  center  upon  the  front  of  your  building  out- 

[44] 


HOTEL    BANDBOX 

line  a  large  double  door  four  inches  square.  It  should 
come  at  the  very  base  of  bandbox.  (To  cut  double 
door,  see  Diagram  Two,  B,  page  167.)  Cut  its  top 
line.  Cut  its  base  line.  Cut  the  cardboard  between 
these  two  lines  in  half  vertically  to  make  the  door. 

When  windows  and  door  are  made,  then  you  may 
paste  some  three-inch  squares  of  glacine  paper  back 
of  each  window  inside  the  box.  The  window-glass 
is  made  this  way.  If  you  like,  you  may  leave  some 
windows  open. 

The  building  is  ready,  now,  to  stand  upon  the 
larger  bandbox  cover.    As  you  see,  this  makes  a  porch. 

Place  the  smaller  bandbox  cover  over  the  upper 
part  of  your  hat-box  to  make  a  flat  roof. 

Over  the  front  door  you  may  make  a  flat  roof.  ( See 
Diagram  Three,  G,  page  172.)  Use  for  it  a  narrow 
box  cover.  Glue  one  long  rim  of  this  cover  to  the 
cardboard  over  your  doorway.  Press  a  pencil  point 
downward  through  each  forward  corner  of  the  cover 
to  make  a  pillar.  The  pencil  points  may  be  secured 
in  the  holes  of  two  spools  and  thus  keep  the  roof 
upright.  If  you  wish,  you  may  glue  the  spools  where 
they  should  go. 

Cut  a  narrow  strip  of  cardboard  and  write  the 

[45] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

name  of  your  hotel  upon  it.  Glue  this  over  the  door- 
way. 

Flower-stands  for  the  hotel  veranda  are  simple 
things  to  make.  One  spool  will  be  needed  for  each 
flower-stand.  Press  the  stems  of  some  artificial  flowers 
into  the  hole  of  the  spool.  If  you  have  gilt  paint,  you 
can  gild  the  stands.  I  painted  mine  with  black  water- 
color  paint. 

Penny  dolls  make  guests  for  the  hotel.  They  come 
already  dressed,  but  you  can  take  one  or  two  of  yours 
and  dress  them  like  men  dolls.  I  inked  mine.  You 
can  see  them  in  the  picture. 

How  are  you  going  to  play  inside  the  hotel?  If 
you  look  at  the  second  picture  of  the  hotel,  you  will 
see  that  it  is  the  back  of  the  box,  and  that  each  corner 
at  the  back  of  the  box  has  been  cut.  When  this  is 
done,  the  back  lets  down.  You  can  cut  your  hotel 
building  this  way.  As  you  see,  it  may  be  closed  up 
again,  when  you  are  not  playing  inside. 

Partitions  for  downstairs  rooms  are  made  with  two 
shoe-boxes — just  their  lower  half  is  used.  Cut  the 
ends  off  each  box.  Place  each  lengthwise  inside  the 
hotel  so  that  there  is  a  space  between  them.  This 
space  forms  the  hotel  hallway. 

[46] 


HOTEL    BANDBOX 

Cut  a  piece  of  cardboard  to  fit  into  your  box  and 
put  it  over  the  top  of  these  two  shoe-boxes.  It  forms 
the  floor  for  the  second-story  rooms.  Another  shoe- 
box — or  two,  if  you  prefer — makes  partitions  for 
second-story  rooms. 

Doors  may  be  cut  in  these  partitions.  (For  cutting 
a  single  door  space,  see  Diagram  Two,  A,  page  167.) 

Samples  of  wall-paper  make  good  carpet  for  the 
hotel.    You  may  cut  it  into  squares  to  make  rugs. 

Window  curtains  may  be  made  from  tissue-paper 
or  lace-paper. 

The  furniture,  itself,  is  cut  from  very  small  boxes. 
Tables  are  made  with  spools. 

The  lower  half  of  a  small  oblong  box  may  be  cut 
to  form  a  chair  by  removing  its  rim,  half-way  around 
— beginning  to  cut  the  rim  at  the  center  of  one  long 
side  of  the  box.  The  part  from  which  the  rim  is  re- 
moved is  the  back  of  the  chair.  Press  its  cardboard 
upward.  The  part  that  has  the  rim  left  upon  it  is  the 
seat  of  the  chair,  and  legs  are  cut  at  its  two  front 
corners  and  in  each  side  at  the  rear.  (See  Diagram 
Six,  C,  page  177,  for  making  a  chair.) 

Place  a  pill-box  over  an  upright  spool  to  make  a 
table.    Round  pill-boxes  make  round  tables.    Square 

[47] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

boxes  make  square  tables.     (See  Diagram  Six,  DD, 
page  178.) 

An  oblong  pill-box  rested  on  its  side  will  form  a 
doll's  bureau.  Mark  off  the  drawers  upon  its  front, 
and  glue  a  strip  of  cardboard,  upright,  at  its  rear. 
Paint  a  mirror  frame  on  the  strip  of  cardboard. 

Beds  for  the  hotel  chambers  may  be  made  of  small 
oblong  boxes  and  their  covers.  To  make  the  upper 
part  of  the  bed,  cut  off  the  long  rims  on  each  side  of 
the  cover.  This  leaves  headboard  and  footboard  to 
be  glued  to  the  lower  half  of  the  box  when  this  has 
been  turned  over  to  rest  upon  its  rims.  At  each  cor- 
ner of  the  lower  half  of  the  box,  cut  a  leg  for  the  bed 
to  stand  upon.  Remove  the  cardboard  from  between 
each.    (To  cut  bed,  see  Diagram  Six,  A  A,  page  175.) 

Little  dolls  touring  through  Hatbox  County  stop 
at  the  hotel  overnight.  Drummer  dolls,  on  their 
business  trips  to  Boxville  General  Store,  find  com- 
fortable accommodations  at  Bandbox  Hotel  too.  As 
soon  as  the  toy  train  stops  at  Boxville  Station,  you  may 
see  them  making  a  bee-line  for  the  hotel. 

There  are  splendid  accommodations  at  Hotel 
Bandbox.  The  meals  are  always  good.  You  only 
need  to  pretend  what  the  dolls  want  and  then  give  it 

[48] 


HOTEL    BANDBOX 

to  them.  Some  want  their  steak  well  done  and  are 
very  particular  about  it,  but  the  waiter  always  does 
right  and  everybody  is  always  satisfied.  After  dinner 
the  guests  take  a  walk  over  to  Mirror  Lake  and  watch 
the  man  who  is  fishing  on  the  bridge  there.  Or  else, 
perhaps,  they  sit  on  the  hotel  piazza  and  watch  the 
people  come  to  the  village  square  to  get  water  at  the 
town  pump. 

Hurry,  hurry  with  the  scissors! 

Bring  the  glue-pot  or  some  paste: 
We  must  make  a  Hotel  Bandbox, 

The  proprietor's  in  haste ! 

Touring  through  the  Boxland  Country, 

Penny  dolls  may  wish  to  stay 
In  this  splendid  Hotel  Bandbox 

That  we're  building  here  to-day! 


[49] 


THE  SHOE-BOX  APARTMENT  HOUSE 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Shoe-box  Apart- 
ment House:  one  shoe-box  with  the  whole  of  its 
cover,  one  small  box  about  two  inches  long,  and  small 
boxes  and  spools  for  furnishing  the  apartment  house. 

You  may  make  a  whole  row  of  apartment  houses. 
They  are  shoe-boxes  that  are  placed  to  stand  on  end. 
Windows  are  drawn  upon  the  fronts  of  the  boxes  as 
they  stand.  Each  apartment  house  must  have  a  porch 
and  front  door  as  well. 

Would  you  like  to  erect  an  apartment  house?  Find 
a  shoe-box,  then. 

Take  its  cover  off.  Stand  your  box  on  end  with 
the  opening  at  back.  Let  the  bottom  of  the  box  face 
you.  Mark  off  upon  it  three  window  spaces,  each 
with  its  base  five  inches  from  the  top  of  your  box. 
See  that  end  windows  are  equally  distant  from  the 
sides  of  your  box.  Make  each  window  two  inches 
high  and  one  inch  wide. 

Arrange  second-story  windows  evenly  between  top 

[50] 


THE   SHOE-BOX    APARTMENT    HOUSE 

and  base  of  your  box,  and  place  below  them  the  first- 
story  window.  Leave  a  place  for  a  door  just  above 
the  base  of  your  box  at  the  left,  as  the  picture  of  Shoe- 
box  Apartment  will  show  you.  Make  the  door  a 
little  larger  than  your  window  spaces — about  three 
inches  high  and  two  inches  wide.  Next  to  it,  draw  a 
window  space  for  the  first-floor  window. 

The  windows  may  be  cut  out,  if  you  like.  (For 
windows,  see  Diagram  One,  A,  page  166.)  Cut  out 
the  squares  you  have  drawn  on  top,  side  lines,  and 
base.  Back  of  each  window  opening,  paste  a  bit  of 
waxed  sandwich  paper  to  form  glass.  Outline  on 
the  front  of  the  box  around  the  windows,  the  window- 
sashes.  Use  black  ink  or  water-color  paints  to  do 
this  work.  Paste  tissue-  or  lace-paper  curtains  over 
the  waxed  paper  inside  the  apartment  house  to  make 
the  windows  trim. 

Cut  the  door  of  the  apartment  house  out.  (For 
door,  see  Diagram  Two,  A,  page  167.)  Cut  the  top 
line,  down  the  side  next  to  the  window,  and  across  the 
base  line. 

The  porch  roof  is  half  of  a  small  box  glued  over 
the  doorway.  The  porch  itself  is  the  half  of  a  box 
glued  below  the  doorway. 

[Si] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Now,  put  the  finishing  touch  to  the  building  by 
adding  a  flat  roof.  Take  the  cover  of  your  shoe-box. 
Cut  off  all  its  rims  except  at  one  end,  a  third  of  the 
way  around.  This  end  is  the  roof.  Cut  it  off  with 
rims  and  fit  it  down  over  the  building.  Paste  it  in 
place. 

The  floors  of  the  apartment  are  made  by  pasting 
the  rest  of  the  cover  into  the  inside  of  the  box,  hori- 
zontally. Cut  the  remaining  part  of  the  cover  in 
half.  Fit  each  section  into  the  box  where  the  floors 
should  be.  Glue  the  edges  that  are  fitted  into  the 
box.  Let  them  dry  thoroughly.  Then,  you  may 
furnish  the  interior  with  boxcraft  furniture  such  as 
is  used  in  arranging  Hotel  Bandbox. 

Penny  dolls  and  Noah's  Ark  ladies  will  surely  take 
up  light  housekeeping  there,  if  their  husbands  ap- 
prove. In  the  picture,  you  will  see  the  janitor,  Mr. 
Jinks.  The  Noah's  Ark  ladies  have  come  to  look  at 
the  rooms. 

There  is  a  fine  apartment  "To  Let"  in  Shoe-box  Flat — 
But  those  who  wish  to  rent  it  may  not  own  a  dog  or  cat! 
When  Mrs.  Noah  came  there,  the  Janitor  said,  "No! 
We  cannot  take  your  animals!    We  cannot  have  you — go!" 


[52] 


Bcxville  Apartment  House.  This  is  made  from  a 
large  shoe-box.  Its  roof  is  the  end  of  the 
cover. 


Here  is  furniture  for  the  Apartment  House  and  for  Bandbox  Hotel. 


A   Boxville   Residence  which   is  made   from  a   deep  letter-paper  box  and 

its  cover. 


The  Garage  is  made  from  a  deep  square  letter-paper  box.     The  cover  of 
the  box  is  its  roof. 


A  BOXVILLE  RESIDENCE 

Material  Required  for  Making  a  Boxville  Resi- 
dence: a  deep,  square  letter-paper  box  with  its  cover, 
the  cover  of  a  flat  letter-paper  box  about  ten  inches 
long,  the  cover  of  a  drawer-like  pill-box,  some  glacine 
or  waxed  paper,  some  artificial  flowers,  lace-paper 
cut  from  candy  boxes,  and  some  box  rims. 

See  what  a  darling  little  house  I  have  made  for  a 
Boxville  Residence!  The  husband  of  Mrs.  Doll, 
who  owns  the  house,  goes  in  his  motor  car  to  Boxville 
Station  every  morning.  He  commutes  to  Boxtown. 
You  can  see  Mrs.  Doll  and  her  sister  in  the  picture. 
Mr.  Doll  has  gone  to  Boxtown,  but  in  the  picture 
of  the  garage  that  goes  with  the  Boxville  Residence 
you  will  see  Mr.  Doll's  motor  and  the  chauffeur. 
Don't  you  think  it  would  be  fun  to  make  a  Boxville 
Residence  like  mine?    I  will  tell  you  how  to  do  it. 

First,  of  course,  you  will  have  to  hunt  for  a  deep, 
square  letter-paper  box,  and  the  other  materials  that 
are  needed  to  use  in  building.    When  you  have  found 

[53] 


THE   JOLLY    BOOK   OF   BOXCRAFT 

your  box,  turn  it  over  so  that  it  stands  upside-down. 
Take  off  the  cover.  That  will  be  the  roof,  but  you  are 
not  ready  yet  to  put  the  roof  on  to  the  building. 

Upon  two  opposite  sides  of  the  box,  mark  off  two 
window  spaces.  (For  windows,  see  Diagram  One, 
A,  page  166.)  Each  window  space  measured  off,  with 
help  of  ruler  and  pencil,  must  be  an  inch  and  a  half 
square.  Have  the  bases  of  the  windows,  as  well  as 
their  tops,  made  a  uniform  distance  from  the  base 
of  the  box  building.  Each  window  should  be  an 
equal  distance  from  the  corner  of  the  box  nearest  it. 

When  the  two  sides  of  the  box  are  marked  out  with 
window  spaces,  you  can  begin  upon  the  front  of  the 
house.  Draw  a  door  space  about  four  inches  high 
and  two  inches  broad,  and  let  it  come  an  inch  from 
the  right-hand  side  of  the  box  building  that  faces 
you.  (For  front  door,  see  Diagram  Two,  C,  page 
167.)  Let  the  base  of  your  door  space  come  on  the 
very  outer  rim  of  the  front  of  the  box.  When  you 
have  outlined  the  door,  draw  a  square  in  its  upper 
part  to  indicate  where  the  plate-glass  window  is  to 
be  in  the  door.  Cut  the  top  line  of  your  door  and 
down  its  right  side.  Then  cut  out  the  square  you 
made  for  the  window  in  it.     There,  the  door  will 

[54] 


A    BOXVILLE    RESIDENCE 

open  and  close,  you  see,  when  you  bend  it  on  the  side 
where  the  hinge  should  be!  Waxed  paper  pasted 
in  a  square  under  the  window  opening  will  make 
the  glass  window.  Lace-paper  makes  curtains.  A 
round-headed  paper-fastener  with  its  prongs  pushed 
through  the  cardboard  door  and  bent  to  one  side  will 
make  a  door-knob  with  a  latch.  By  turning  the  knob 
you  can  open  or  fasten  the  front  door  tight. 

After  the  door  is  finished,  draw  a  window  space 
half-way  between  the  door  and  the  corner  of  the 
building  on  the  front  of  the  house.  Now,  you  can 
begin  to  cut  out  all  the  windows.  Cut  each  one 
evenly,  and  paste  a  square  of  waxed  paper  or  glacine 
paper  back  of  each,  inside  the  box,  to  make  window- 
glass.  You  can  outline  the  window-frames  on  the 
outside,  using  black  ink  or  paint. 

Doesn't  the  box  begin  to  look  like  a  real  house? 
Yes!  But  it  has  no  roof  yet!  Where  is  the  cover  of 
your  box?  Slip  it  down  over  the  building.  There 
you  are!  The  cover  of  a  small  drawer-like  pill-box 
will  make  a  fine  chimney.  Glue  it  on  end  to  the  top 
of  the  roof  at  the  center. 

Where  is  the  flat  letter-box  cover?  That  is  to  be 
the  porch.     Place  it  on  the  floor  or  table,  and  then 

Iss] 


THE   JOLLY    BOOK   OF   BOXCRAFT 

brush  the  rims  of  the  box  that  is  your  Boxville  Resi- 
dence with  paste  or  glue  so  that  it  will  stand  well 
back  upon  this  veranda.  Be  careful  not  to  have  any 
paste  under  the  door.  See,  there  is  the  front  porch. 
The  veranda  railing  is  just  a  box  rim  cut  from  a  box 
and  pasted  to  the  edge  of  the  veranda  on  the  cover 
of  the  letter-paper  box. 

If  you  wish  to  have  a  step  up  to  the  front  porch,  a 
small  box  or  its  cover  will  make  this. 

My  Boxville  Residence  has  a  garden.  Mrs.  Doll 
is  very  fond  of  gardens,  and  so  is  Mr.  Doll  also.  I 
made  the  garden  from  a  wreath  of  flowers  that  was 
on  an  old  summer  hat.  I  made  an  arbor.  It  was  easy 
to  make  that.  The  arbor  is  cut  from  a  candy  box. 
It  is  just  half  the  rim.  I  stood  it  up  on  its  ends  and 
trimmed  it  with  the  flowers.  Of  course,  if  you  play 
out-of-doors  with  your  Boxville  Residence,  you  can 
have  real  flowers  to  play  with.  You  can  lay  out  walks 
with  pebbles  and  gravel  when  you  do  not  play  in  the 
house.  I  made  a  fountain  or  a  pool  for  the  garden 
from  a  hand-glass.  At  almost  any  penny  store  you 
can  buy  a  little  round  mirror  that  will  make  a  garden 
pool.  You  can  make  a  sun-dial  also.  It  is  a  spool 
with  a  pill-box  placed  over  one  end  of  it.    You  will 

[56] 


A    BOXVILLE    RESIDENCE 

have  to  mark  off  the  face  of  the  sun-dial  with  pencil. 
Don't  you  think  that  this  makes  a  comfortable  home 
for  a  Boxville  resident?  I  do.  I  almost  wish  I  were 
a  little  doll,  so  that  I  might  open  the  front  door  and 
begin  furnishing  the  inside  of  the  house  with  box 
furniture  and  spools. 

'Mid  pleasures  and  palaces  where'er  you  may  roam, 
There  is  no  place  like  Boxville  for  a  little  doll's  home! 
A  charm  from  the  fairies  seems  magic  play  there, 
Which,  seek  through  the  world,  is  ne'er  met  elsewhere. 


[57] 


THE  BOXVILLE  GARAGE  OR  STABLE 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Boxville  Garage 
or  Stable:  one  deep  letter-paper  box  with  its  cover. 

Here  is  a  toy  garage.  It  belongs  to  the  residence 
of  Mr.  Doll  of  Boxville.  Would  you  like  to  make 
a  garage  like  it? 

The  box  you  will  need  to  use  for  making  a  garage 
must  be  deep  and  square.  Place  it  upon  the  table 
standing  upon  its  rims.  Then,  the  bottom  of  the  box 
will  become  the  top  of  your  building,  and  you  may 
place  the  cover  over  this  and  glue  it  to  make  a  flat 
roof. 

Upon  the  front  of  your  box,  draw  a  large  square 
four  inches  in  size.  Let  the  base  of  this  square  come 
upon  the  outer  rim  of  the  box.  The  square  is  to  be 
the  large  double  door  of  the  garage.  (To  cut  the 
door,  see  Diagram  Two,  B,  page  167.)  Cut  the  top 
line.    Cut  the  base  line.    From  top  to  base  line  cut 

[58] 


THE    BOXVILLE    GARAGE    OR    STABLE 

another  line  dividing  the  doorway  into  halves  to  form 
the  doors. 

The  doors  will  fold  outward  when  you  have 
finished  cutting  them.    Paint  them  green,  if  you  wish. 

On  each  side  of  your  box,  you  may  draw  a  window 
with  blinds.  The  window  should  be  two  inches 
square,  and  should  be  placed  in  the  center  of  each 
side.  Draw  a  line  vertically  from  top  to  base  of  the 
window  space  to  make  the  divisions  for  the  blinds. 
This  line  should  divide  the  window  space  evenly  into 
halves.  (To  cut  window  with  blinds,  see  Diagram 
One,  B,  page  166.)  Cut  across  the  top  of  each  window 
you  have  marked  out.  Cut  down  its  center  line,  and 
cut  its  base  line.  Press  the  cardboard  outward  against 
the  sides  of  the  little  building  to  make  blinds.  Color 
the  blinds  to  match  the  door. 

There!  The  garage  is  finished.  Wind  up  your 
toy  automobile,  and  let  us  see  how  nicely  it  runs  right 
through  the  doorway! 

Here  is  Boxville  Garage — just  the  very  toy 

For  an  automobile  owned  by  a  small  boy! 

Takes  a  half  a  second  just  to  cut  a  door 

And  two  little  windows.     There  is  nothing  more! 

Anyone  can  make  it,  for  the  garage  here 

Is  a  box  of  cardboard.     Isn't  it  just  dear! 

[59] 


MAKING  A  BOXVILLE  GARDEN 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Greenhouse:  the 
half  of  some  deep  box  from  five  to  seven  inches  long 
and  about  five  inches  deep  (the  half  of  a  box  such  as 
is  usually  to  be  found  at  a  hardware  store),  about 
twelve  square  inches  of  cardboard  from  which  to  ci 
a  roof,  and  a  sheet  of  waxed  sandwich  paper. 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Pergola:  half  of  a 
ordinary  white  shoe-box,  and  a  strip  of  cardboar 
about  thirteen  inches  long  and  seven  inches  wide. 

Material  Required  to  Make  the  Garden  Itsel 
artificial  flowers,  some  spools  for  flower-stands,  sam 
paper  for  roadway  and  gravel  walks,  a  penny  mirror 
for  a  sunken-garden  pool,  boxes  for  benches,  green 
crape  paper  for  grass,  a  long  box  to  make  a  hedge, 
moss,  pebbles,  shells,  and  pretty  twigs  from  out-of- 
doors. 

It  is  such  fun  to  play  in  a  garden  that  I  made  one 
for  Boxville.    It  belongs  to  Mr.  Penny  Doll's  resi- 

[60] 


MAKING    A    BOXVILLE    GARDEN 

dence.  It  has  a  pergola  and  a  greenhouse,  a  sunken 
pool,  flower-stands,  gravel  walks,  benches,  and  every- 
thing that  a  garden  should  have. 

Green  crape  paper  placed  upon  the  floor  will  make 
the  garden  lawn.  Sandpaper  cut  in  strips  and  laid 
upon  it  forms  the  garden  paths.  A  roadway  may  be 
made  from  sandpaper  too.  If  you  have  none,  ordinary 
brown  paper  will  answer.  A  long  box  covered  over 
with  green  crape  paper  looks  just  like  a  garden  hedge. 
The  paper  should  be  pasted  over  the  sides  of  the  box 
quite  flat.  Garden  stands  are  made  by  gilding  spools 
and  then  poking  into  each  spool,  as  it  stands  upright, 
some  artificial  flowers. 

Greenhouse  for  the  garden  is  made  from  the  deep 
half  of  some  box  about  seven  inches  long  and  five 
inches  deep.  If  you  like,  your  greenhouse  may  be 
made  smaller,  but  this  size  is  an  easy  one  to  handle. 

The  box  itself  forms  the  greenhouse  building.  Its 
roof  is  of  bent  cardboard,  and  the  glass  in  it  is  waxed 
sandwich  paper. 

Shall  I  tell  you  how  to  make  the  greenhouse  so  that 
you  may  make  one  like  it?  First,  take  the  half  of 
the  box  you  intend  to  use  and  place  it  upon  its  rims, 
open  at  base. 

[61] 


THE   JOLLY    BOOK   OF   BOXCRAFT 

Next,  one  inch  above  the  base,  on  each  corner  make 
a  pencil  dot. 

Cut  the  top  off  the  rims  of  your  box. 

On  each  end  rim,  at  center,  make  a  pencil  dot  to 
indicate  the  middle  top  of  each  box  end.  (Leave 
sides  without  marks.) 

From  the  center  top  point  on  each  end  cut  down 
diagonally  to  right  and  left,  to  form  the  peaked  part 
of  the  building  under  the  roof.  (See  Diagram  Three, 
CC,  page  170.) 

Then,  cut  the  long  sides  of  the  box  to  meet  these, 
lengthwise.  Remove  the  cardboard  at  the  top  of 
each  long  side. 

Now,  in  the  point  at  one  end  of  the  lower  half  of 
the  greenhouse  building,  cut  out  windows.  Cut  them 
to  fit  your  box  building.  (See  Diagram  One,  A, 
page  166,  for  windows.)  Back  of  each,  paste  some 
transparent  waxed  sandwich  paper.  If  you  like, 
cut  a  triangular  window  in  the  point  of  the  building 
which  is  to  be  under  the  roof. 

Between  the  lower  two  windows,  cut  a  door  to 
fit — one  inch  wide  and  two  inches  high  should  be  a 
good  size.  (For  cutting  a  door,  see  Diagram  Two, 
A,  page  167.) 

[62] 


MAKING    A    BOXVILLE    GARDEN 

You  may  make  the  roof  two  inches  longer  and  four 
inches  wider  than  the  size  of  the  base  of  your  box. 
Cut  this  roof  from  your  cardboard.  Fold  it  through 
the  center  of  its  long  sides  to  make  a  gable  roof.  (See 
Diagram  Three,  C,  page  170.) 

In  each  side  of  this  roof,  cut  out  windows.  Paste 
back  of  their  openings  some  waxed  sandwich  paper. 

Glue  the  roof  to  the  lower  half  of  the  building. 

Any  small  boxes  that  you  have  will  form  flower- 
boxes  when  filled  with  small  artificial  flowers.  They 
may  go  into  the  greenhouse. 

To  make  the  pergola,  you  will  need  the  lower  half 
of  a  white  shoe-box.  Take  the  box  and  stand  it  upon 
its  rims,  base  at  top,  opening  below. 

Cut  out  the  cardboard  that  was  the  bottom  of  the 
box,  leaving  a  narrow  rim  around  this  between  cor- 
ners on  the  side  that  was  this  box  bottom. 

Then,  cut  off  each  end  of  the  box,  leaving  the 
margin  around  corners  and  top  rim  like  this  first  cut- 
ting in  the  box. 

In  the  two  long  rims  of  the  box  cut  pillars  on  each 
side.     (See  Diagram  Seven,  page  181.) 

Cut  two  long  cardboard  strips  from  some  Bristol- 
board — each  two  inches  longer  than  the  length  of 

[63] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

your  box.  Glue  one  strip  each  over  the  top  of  the 
pergola,  lengthwise,  over  the  long  sides  of  the  box. 

Cut  five  inch-wide  strips  of  cardboard  two  inches 
longer  than  the  width  of  your  box,  and  glue  each 
across  the  opening  made  by  cutting  the  top  from  the 
pergola  box.  Each  strip  should  be  evenly  crossed 
between  opposite  pillars. 

If  you  have  any  pretty  artificial  flowers  left  from 
your  garden  and  greenhouse,  twine  them  around  the 
pillars  of  your  finished  pergola. 

I  have  a  gardener  for  my  garden.  His  name  is  Karl 
Shepherd.  He  came  to  me  in  a  box  of  toy  lambs  that 
I  bought  at  the  ten-cent  store.  I  called  him  Karl 
because  he  looked  so  German.  Perhaps,  among  your 
playthings,  you  have  a  little  figure  like  him.  Look 
and  see.    I  am  sure  you  will  find  a  gardener. 

Here's  the  little  Boxville  Garden, 

Just  as  cunning  as  can  be; 
Bring  your  scissors  and  the  paste  jar! 

It  is  made  with  boxes — see! 

There  shall  be  a  pretty  greenhouse/ 

There  shall  be  an  arbor,  too; 
Paths  and  flower-beds  we'll  lay  out— 

Oh,  there  will  be  fun  for  you! 

[64] 


Boxville  Greenhouse  is  cut  from  the  half  of  a  deep  box  such  as  hardware 
merchants  use  on  their  shelves.  It  has  a  roof  made  from  cardboard. 
The  glass  is  waxed  paper. 


WJS 

m[ 

H^^B   fli 

The  Pergola  is  made  from  the  lower  half  of  a  white  shoe-box.     Strips  of 
white  cardboard  are  glued  across  the  top. 


^B    I 

:       ;.'   -     ■     ;      '""'- 

The  Boat-house  or  Yacht  Club  is  made  from  the  half  of  a  deep  box 
about  eight  inches  long.  Its  roof  and  floor  are  shoe-box  covers. 
The  flagstaff  is  a  pencil. 


Boxcraft   Houseboat   is   made   from   the   lower   half   of  a   plain   shoe-box. 
Two  shoe-box  covers  make  the  rest  of  the  boat. 


BOXVILLE  BOAT-HOUSE  OR  YACHT  CLUB 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Boxville  Boat- 
house:  the  lower  half  of  a  deep  box  about  six  inches 
long,  and  also  two  shoe-box  covers. 

Boxville  Boat-house  is  made  from  an  oblong  box 
about  two-thirds  the  size  of  a  shoe-box.  Its  wharf  is 
a  shoe-box  cover,  and  its  roof  is  another  shoe-box 
cover. 

If  you  wish  to  cut  a  lake  from  a  sheet  of  silver 
paper,  the  boat-house  or  yacht  club  is  the  very  thing 
for  this  play.  Any  water  toys,  such  as  swans,  ducks, 
fish,  or  frogs,  may  swim  on  Silver  Paper  Lake,  and 
from  your  yacht  club,  parties  of  fishermen  may  angle 
for  magnetized  fish.  The  boat-house  may  be  a  part 
of  the  summer  attractions  of  Hotel  Bandbox  in  season. 

To  make  a  boat-house  building,  you  will  first  need 
to  turn  your  box  over  upon  its  rims  so  that  its  bottom 
becomes  its  top. 

Draw  a  three-inch  square  on  one  short  end  of  your 
box.    Let  its  base  come  to  the  extreme  edge  of  the 

[65] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

box  rim.  This  square  is  to  be  the  door  you  see  in 
the  picture.  Draw  a  vertical  line  down  the  center 
of  this  square.  This  gives  two  doors  for  the  doorway. 
(To  cut  double  door,  see  Diagram  Two,  B}  page 
167.)  Cut  across  the  top  line  and  down  the  center  to 
the  outer  rim.  Bend  outward  the  two  halves  of  the 
doorway. 

The  boat-house  is  to  have  windows,  and  each  win- 
dow is  to  have  an  awning  over  it.  To  make  windows 
with  awnings,  first  draw  on  each  long  side  of  your 
box,  two  one-inch  squares.  Each  square  should  be 
drawn  about  an  inch  and  a  half  from  a  corner  of  the 
box.  Each  square  should  be  half-way  between  top 
and  bottom  of  the  building.  (For  windows  with  awn- 
ings, see  Diagram  One,  C,  page  166.)  Cut  down  both 
side  lines  and  across  the  base  line.  Bend  the  cut  card- 
board outward  and  upward  to  form  an  awning.  Color 
this  awning  with  red  stripes,  using  your  crayons  or 
water-color  paints. 

When  all  windows  are  cut,  then  you  may  place 
your  little  building  at  the  rear  of  the  shoe-box  cover 
which  forms  the  wharf. 

Over  the  top  of  your  building,  fit  another  shoe-box 
cover  to  form  a  projecting  roof  over  the  wharf. 

[66] 


BOAT-HOUSE   OR    YACHT    CLUB 

A  long  pencil  will  be  a  fine  flagstaff.  Run  its 
point  through  the  front  of  the  boat-house  roof,  and 
glue  to  the  top  of  the  pencil  a  triangular  piece  of 
colored  paper  to  make  the  pennant. 

My  little  Boxville  people 

Have  a  club-house  where  they  go 
When  they  want  to  do  some  fishing, 
Or  they  want  to  take  a  row. 

It  stands  beside  a  paper  lake, 

Upon  my  play-room  floor; 
It  has  some  pretty  awnings, 

And  a  dock,  beside  a  door! 

Upon  the  lake  float  water  toys. 

I  put  moss  by  the  shore 
And  pebbles:  they  make  splendid  rocks! 

Some  day  I'll  find  some  more! 


[67] 


THE  HOUSEBOAT  "BOXCRAFT" 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Houseboat:    the 

covers  of  two  large  shoe-boxes,  and  the  lower  half  of 
a  child's  shoe-box. 

Here  is  a  jolly  houseboat,  the  very  thing  to  sail  on 
Silver  Paper  Lake.  Little  dolls  may  spend  their 
vacation  upon  it.  Would  you  like  to  make  a  house- 
boat to  play  with?    It  is  not  difficult. 

First,  take  the  two  shoe-box  covers  and  glue  them 
top  to  top.  Place  them  on  the  floor  flat.  There  is  the 
lower  half  of  the  houseboat. 

Upon  both  long  sides  of  your  small  shoe-box,  draw 
three  one-inch  squares,  keeping  the  two  at  either  end 
of  the  same  side  equally  distant  from  the  nearest 
corner  of  the  box,  and  making  the  third  window  on 
each  side  half-way  between  them.  (To  cut  windows 
with  awnings,  see  Diagram  One,  C,  page  166.)  Cut 
the  window  squares  at  both  sides  and  along  their  base 
lines.  Bend  the  cardboard  outward  and  upward  to 
make  the  awnings.  Color  these  with  red  stripes, 
using  either  chalks  or  water-color  paints. 

[68] 


THE    HOUSEBOAT    "BOX    CRAFT" 

On  the  front  and  rear  ends  of  the  houseboat,  you 
will  need  a  door  and  window.  Make  an  upright 
oblong  space  for  the  door.  Mark  it  out  with  pencil 
about  three  inches  high  from  the  rim  of  the  box. 
Make  a  window  beside  each  door.  (To  cut  door 
space,  see  Diagram  Two,  A,  page  167.)  Cut  top  line 
and  down  one  side.  Bend  the  door  outward  on  the 
third  side  as  if  it  were  on  a  hinge. 

A  flagstaff  for  the  houseboat  is  made  by  pressing 
the  point  of  a  long  pencil  down  through  the  top  of 
the  houseboat  in  front.  A  paper  pennant  may  be 
glued  to  the  side  of  the  pencil. 

A  piece  of  string  will  make  a  tow-line  for  the 
houseboat.  Fasten  it  to  any  little  donkey  or  toy  horse 
you  have,  and  start  penny  dolls  on  a  voyage  around 
the  play-room  floor.  The  houseboat,  of  course,  is  not 
meant  to  sail  upon  dangerous  water.  It  might  be 
safely  anchored  on  the  shore  of  Mirror  Lake  or  Silver 
Paper  Lake. 

I  built  a  little  houseboat  with  some  windows  and  a  door, 
And  I  made  an  inland  voyage  all  around  the  play-room  floor! 
At  last  I  moored  my  houseboat  beside  my  little  chair: 
There  was  a  carpet  hassock  that  was  an  island  there. 


[69] 


CAMP  BOX  ON  MIRROR  LAKE 

Material  Required  to  Make  Camp  Box:  a  yard 
or  two  of  green  crape  paper  for  grass  and  foliage  of 
trees,  two  or  three  clothes-pins  to  make  tree-trunks, 
a  sheet  of  silver  paper  or  a  cheap  ten-cent  mirror  to 
form  a  "lake,"  the  halves  of  shallow  letter-paper 
boxes  to  make  tents,  and  any  pebbles,  moss,  or  shells 
you  have  among  your  treasures. 

It  is  great  fun  to  make  a  Mirror  Lake  Camp — 
almost  as  much  fun  as  being  in  a  real  camp!  Mirror 
Lake  Camp  may  be  made  on  the  play-room  floor. 

First,  if  you  have  some  green  crape  paper,  lay  it 
flat  on  the  floor.    This  is  the  grass. 

Next,  if  you  have  some  silver  paper,  cut  out  a  circle 
of  it,  and  paste  it  to  the  crape  paper  to  form  a  lake. 
Instead  of  the  silver  paper,  you  may  substitute  a 
cheap  mirror.  Place  this  under  the  crape  paper  and 
cut  out  a  circle  above  it. 

You  will  need  a  grove  of  trees  near  the  shore  of 

[70] 


Camp  Box  on  Mirror  Lake.    Its  tents  are  made  from  the  halves  of  shallow 
boxes.     Trees  are  made  of  clothespins. 


The  Boxville  Gipsy  Cart  is  made  from  a  correspondence-card  box. 


CAMP    BOX    ON    MIRROR    LAKE 

your  lake.  These  trees  are  made  by  standing  some 
clothes-pins  on  end  with  forks  in  the  air.  Cut  some 
green  paper  and  press  it  in  between  the  forks.  It 
makes  the  foliage  of  trees. 

The  tents  are  made  from  the  half  of  a  shallow  white 
box  like  a  letter-paper  box.  To  make  a  tent,  cut 
through  each  long  side  rim  of  your  box  as  far  as  the 
top  or  bottom  of  the  cover,  as  the  case  may  be.  Bend 
the  box  downward  to  each  side  of  this  cutting,  making 
a  tent  roof,  slanting  to  each  side  downward.  (For 
cutting  a  tent,  see  Diagram  Three,  E,  page  171.) 

You  may  have  as  many  tents  in  your  camp  as  you 
like.  Perhaps  your  tin  soldiers  might  like  an  encamp- 
ment on  the  shores  of  Mirror  Lake.  Small  oblong 
box  covers  will  make  smaller  tents  for  these.  When 
it  is  summer,  maybe  it  would  be  nice,  on  some  warm, 
sunny  day,  to  take  the  tents  outdoors  under  the  trees 
on  the  lawn  and  make  a  really  true  camp  on  the  really 
true  grass,  with  real  growing  things  for  trees  in  a 
woods.    Perhaps  so! 

Cut  bits  of  twigs  and  use  these  for  trees.  Pebbles 
will  help  to  make  a  rocky  shore  for  a  real  water  lake 
that  is  a  shallow  pie-plate  filled  with  water.  Its  sides 
should  be  covered  with  moss  or  short  grass.     Of 

[71] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

course,  after  playing  out-of-  ^ors  with  the  camp 
buildings,  you  will  have  to  pic,  hem  up,  when  play- 
time is  over,  for  the  cardboard  i  ts  will  be  spoiled  if 
you  let  them  stay  out  over  night.  I  know  it  because 
I  tried  it  I  I  had  a  really  darling  little  doll  and  I  let 
her  stay  out  in  a  tent  after  my  play  was  finished.  It 
rained  in  the  night  and  she  was  all  spoiled — and  I 
had  to  make  a  new  tent,  too.  I  think  you'll  like  to 
know  about  this  so  you  won't  try  it.  It  really  is  bet- 
ter to  pick  up  after  play,  I  think! 

I  made  a  grove  of  clothes-pin  trees, 
And  had  a  splendid  time  with  these! 
My  china  rabbits  ran  in  play 
Beneath  the  trees  the  whole  long  day! 

I  made  some  little  camp  tents,  too — 
It  was  a  jolly  thing  to  do! 
Some  penny  dolls  a  picnic  laid 
Beneath  the  green  crape-paper  shade. 


[72] 


THE  GIPSY  CART  OF  BOXVILLE  HIGH- 
WAY 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Toy  Gipsy  Cart: 
a  deep  oblong  box  such  as  correspondence  cards  are 
packed  in,  also  five  square  inches  of  cardboard,  four 
round-headed  paper-fasteners,  and  two  small  boxes. 

Do  you  think  it  would  be  fun  to  make  a  gipsy 
wagon  like  the  one  in  the  picture?  It  is  a  very  simple 
thing  to  make. 

First,  find  a  box  such  as  correspondence  cards  come 
in  from  the  stationery  store.  Take  its  high  cover  off, 
and  cut  from  the  lower  part  of  the  box  almost  all  of 
the  deep  inner  rim,  leaving  only  about  a  half-inch 
of  it  all  around.  Put  the  cover  back  over  this,  and 
glue  the  two  parts  of  the  box  together.  The  box  is 
to  be  the  gipsy  wagon  now.  A  door  will  need  to  be 
cut  at  one  end  of  the  box,  and  windows  will  need  to  be 
made  on  the  sides  of  the  box  rim. 

Turn  the  box  over  so  that  its  base  becomes  the  top 

[73] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK   OF    BOXCRAFT 

of  your  wagon.  Make  the  outline  of  a  door  with 
pencil  on  one  end  of  the  box.  To  make  it,  mark  off 
an  upright  oblong  space  an  inch  wide  and  two  inches 
and  a  half  high.  Have  its  base  come  at  the  very 
edge  of  box  rim.  (To  cut  door,  see  Diagram  Two, 
A,  page  167.)  Cut  one  side  line  from  the  base  of 
the  box  up  to  the  top  line,  and  cut  along  the  top 
line  of  the  upright  figure  you  have  drawn.  Bend 
the  cardboard  outward  to  make  a  little  door.  See,  it 
will  open  or  close  as  you  bend  it. 

Next,  make  the  windows  on  the  sides  of  the  cart. 
You  may  make  these  with  or  without  shutters.  If 
you  make  them  without  shutters,  you  will  only  need 
to  cut  two  one-inch  squares  in  each  side  of  your  box. 
Each  should  be  evenly  distant  from  a  corner.  (To  cut 
plain  windows,  see  Diagram  One,  A,  page  166.) 

If,  however,  you  wish  to  have  shutters  on  the 
windows  of  your  wagon,  cut  these  squares  at  top  and 
base.  Then  cut  a  line  through  each  center,  vertically, 
from  top  to  base.  This  gives  you  the  shutters.  Press 
them  back  against  the  outside  of  the  cart.  (For 
making  blinds,  see  Diagram  One,  B,  page  166.) 

Window-shutters  and  door  may  be  painted.  Dry 
them  while  you  make  wheels  for  the  cart.     Color 

[74] 


GIPSY   CART  OF  BOXVILLE  HIGHWAY 

them  with  water-color  paints.    Make  them  green  or 
red. 

The  wheels  are  circles  cut  from  stiff  cardboard. 
Find  your  compass  to  help  draw  them  round.  If  you 
have  no  compass,  use  the  outline  of  a  small  round 
saucer  about  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter  to 
guide  you  in  drawing  the  four  wheels  in  outline. 
Draw  a  hub  and  spokes  on  each,  if  you  like. 

When  you  have  drawn  them,  cut  each  out,  and 
press  through  the  axle  of  each  one  a  round-headed 
paper-fastener.  Bend  its  prongs  to  either  side  after 
you  have  pressed  the  wheel  into  place  on  the  cart. 
The  wheels  may  be  glued,  if  you  have  no  paper- 
fasteners  to  use  for  making  axles. 

Your  cart  will  need  a  seat  for  the  driver.  This  is 
made  from  the  lower  half  of  a  small,  narrow  box 
about  two  inches  in  length.  Cut  off  the  short  end 
rims,  and  glue  one  long  rim  to  your  wagon  in  front, 
so  that  it  makes  the  dashboard  and  floor  of  the  front 
of  the  cart  under  the  seat.  Paste  a  small  pill-box  on 
this  to  make  the  seat  itself. 

At  the  rear  of  your  cart,  you  may  make  some  steps 
by  folding  a  strip  of  box  rim  twice  and  fastening  it 
under  the  door  with  mucilage. 

[75] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Shafts  for  the  cart  are  two  narrow  strips  of  card- 
board pasted  to  the  forward  part  of  the  wagon. 

There!  The  gipsy  cart  is  finished.  Penny  dolls 
or  tumble  toys  will  be  the  gipsies. 

Here  come  the  gipsies  a-jogging  up  the  road! 
They're  going  up  to  Boxville.   The  horse  has  quite  a  load! 
Good  fortune's  coming  to  you,  and  it  isn't  far  away: 
We're  going  with  the  penny  dolls  a-gipsying  in  play! 


* 


[76] 


.      THE  SHEPHERD'S  HUT  AND  THE 
SHEEPFOLD 

Material  Required  for  Making  the  Shepherd's 
Hut:  a  yard  or  two  of  green  crape  paper,  some  cor- 
rugated cardboard,  half  a  small  square  box  about  four 
^nches  high,  and,  if  you  have  it,  silver  paper  to  make 
a  lake. 

Here  in  the  picture  you  see  the  shepherd's  cottage. 
T  had  a  little  flock  of  white  woolly  lambs  given  me. 
They  came  in  a  box,  with  a  shepherd  boy  and  his  dog 
to  tend  them. 

One  day,  I  decided  to  build  a  cottage  for  the  shep- 
herd and  make  a  sheepfold  for  his  flock.  You  can 
make  one  for  your  toy  lambs,  too,  and,  if  you  like,  I 
will  tell  you  how  to  do  it. 

First,  lay  some  green  crape  paper  upon  the  floor 
to  make  grass.  There  must  be  grass,  you  know.  Of 
course,  if  you  have  no  green  crape  paper,  you  will 
need  to  pretend  that  the  carpet  of  the  floor  is  grass. 

[77] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Perhaps  it  will  answer  just  as  well.  But,  if  you  have 
the  paper,  you  can  make  a  hill  or  two  behind  the 
place  where  you  intend  to  build.  It  is  made  by  put- 
ting some  blocks  or  books  under  the  paper. 

Next,  I  made  a  long  fence  by  cutting  some  cor- 
rugated cardboard  into  long  strips.  Three  rows  made 
the  width  of  this  long  fence.  After  you  have  cut 
your  fence,  stand  it  upon  its  rim.  By  bending  the 
strip  at  one  end,  you  can  make  a  gate.  The  fence  is 
made  of  very  heavy  corrugated  cardboard,  such  as 
comes  wrapped  around  very  heavy  things.  There  is 
a  lighter  kind  that  you  may  also  use.  From  this  kind, 
I  made  my  sheep-pen.  It  came  wrapped  around  a 
snlall  glass  jar. 

To  make  the  sheep-pen,  cut  a  long  strip  of  the 
corrugated  cardboard.  Cut  it  crosswise  instead  of 
lengthwise,  and  slip  through  each  undulation  in  the 
cardboard  the  end  of  a  toothpick.  This  gives  the 
effect  of  a  picket  fence. 

The  shepherd's  hut  is  made  from  the  lower  half 
of  a  deep  box.  Its  roof  is  a  piece  of  corrugated 
cardboard  cut  long  and  bent  through  the  middle 
downward. 

To  make  the  house,  turn  your  box  over  so  that  the 

[78] 


SHEPHERD'S    HUT    AND    THE    SHEEPFOLD 

bottom  becomes  the  top  and  the  box  rests  upon  its 
rims. 

Measure  the  size  of  its  ends,  and  cut  two  triangular 
pieces  of  cardboard  to  fit  over  them  and  form  gables. 
Glue  each  to  an  end  of  the  house.  (For  cutting 
triangular  roof  supports,  see  Diagram  Three,  BB, 
page  169.) 

Cut  a  door  and  a  window  in  the  front  of  your  house. 
Both  must  first  be  outlined  on  the  box  in  pencil. 
Mark  the  door  an  inch  wide  and  two  inches  high,  an 
oblong  with  base  at  the  edge  of  the  box  rim.  (For 
door,  see  Diagram  Two,  A,  page  167.)  Cut  the  top 
line  and  down  one  long  side.  Bend  the  door  outward 
as  if  it  were  on  a  hinge.  One-inch  squares  may  be 
cut  in  the  box  rim  to  make  windows.  (For  cutting  a 
window,  see  Diagram  One,  A,  page  166.)  Cut  the 
square  on  all  four  sides. 

Place  a  window  under  the  roof  in  the  point  of  the 
gable,  if  you  like. 

The  roof  of  the  cottage  is  made  by  measuring,  first, 
the  size  of  the  building  you  wish  to  cover.  Measure 
this  on  your  corrugated  cardboard,  and  add  three 
inches  to  its  length  and  breadth.  Fold  the  corrugated 
cardboard  together  to  make  a  pointed  roof.      (See 

[79] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Diagram  Three,  C,  page  170.)  Glue  this  to  the  build- 
ing, and  the  little  shepherd's  hut  is  finished. 

You  may  make  a  landscape  of  mountains  behind  it, 
where  the  sheep  may  go  to  graze.  These  are  blocks 
or  boxes  covered  with  crape  paper.  Do  not  use  glue 
or  paste  in  doing  this.  The  paper  is  merely  folded 
over  them. 

A  pretty  stream  may  be  made  from  an  irregularly 
cut  strip  of  silver  paper.  The  woolly  sheep  love  to 
drink  at  a  stream,  I  am  sure.  You  can  see  the  lake 
I  made  for  my  landscape.  It  was  a  mirror.  A  rocky 
ledge  on  the  mountain-side  or  by  the  lake  is  made 
with  pretty  pebbles  such  as  you  may  find  in  the 
country. 

Mary  had  a  little  lamb,  its  fleece  was  white  as  snow; 
A  little  shepherd  guarded  it  in  sheepfold,  don't  you  know! 
It  didn't  go  to  Boxville  School,  it  grazed  about  in  play 
Upon  the  green  crape-paper  field  that  Mary  made  one  day. 


rso] 


Sheepfold  and  Shepherd's  Cote.     Corrugated  cardhoard  is  used  for  roof 

and  fences. 


The  Bridge  over  Mirror  Lake.     It  is  made  from  a  long  shallow  box  with 

a  cover. 


BUILDING  A  BOX  BRIDGE 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Box  Bridge:  a 
long  cardboard  box  with  cover,  a  strip  of  cardboard 
about  ten  inches  long. 

When  you  look  at  the  picture  of  Box  Bridge,  you 
will  easily  see,  I  think,  how  it  is  made.  It  may  be 
used  in  many  ways  for  play.  Your  toy  railway  system 
may  have  a  bridge  as  well  as  a  freight  station  and 
tunnel.  A  box  bridge  may  connect  opposite  shores 
of  Silver  Paper  Lake,  and  the  delivery  wagon  from 
Boxville's  General  Store  may  jog  happily  over  the 
bridge  to  deliver  goods  at  Boxville  Cottage.  Guests 
from  Hotel  Bandbox  may  fish  from  the  bridge.  I 
am  sure  you  will  find  many  other  things  to  play  with 
it,  so  I  will  tell  you  how  to  make  one,  even  though 
it  does  seem  as  if  you  might  almost  make  one  without 
directions! 

Take  the  box  that  you  wish  to  use  for  a  bridge. 
Remove  its  cover. 

[8.] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Turn  the  lower  half  of  the  box  over  so  that  the 
bottom  of  the  box  becomes  top.  Cut  a  semicircular 
piece  from  each  long  rim.  This  makes  the  long  arch 
of  the  bridge.    (See  Diagram  Four,  A,  page  173.) 

Next,  take  the  box  cover  and  turn  it  so  that  its  top 
is  next  to  the  top  of  the  bridge.  The  lengthwise  rims 
of  the  box  will  be  a  railing  for  the  roadway  over  it. 
Cut  each  end  rim  at  the  corner,  and  let  these  end  rims 
be  pasted  each  to  a  strip  of  cardboard  cut  to  fit  the 
width  of  the  box,  and  join  the  bridge  roadway  to  the 
road  along  the  floor  where  you  are  playing.  Each 
strip  of  cardboard  glued  to  an  end  of  the  bridge  may 
be  about  five  inches  long. 

If  you  wish  to  make  more  than  one  bridge,  you 
may  easily  do  so.  The  shape  of  your  box,  whether 
deep  or  shallow,  will  make  a  different  kind  of  bridge. 
The  landscape  of  your  Boxville  may  be  as  full  of 
silver  paper  streams  and  foot-bridges,  railway 
bridges,  covered  bridges,  toll-bridges,  as  you  please! 

London  Bridge  may  fall  down, 

But  my  Box  Bridge  stands  true! 
I'd  rather  own  a  Boxville  Bridge 

That  stands  up — wouldn't  you? 


[82] 


BUILDING  A  TOY  WINDMILL 

Material  Required  for  Making  a  Windmill:  a 
box  made  with  curved  sides  about  five  inches  deep, 
a  half-sheet  of  cardboard,  and  a  long  pencil. 

From  any  deep  box  with  round  sides,  you  may 
make  a  windmill.  You  will  not  need  the  cover  of 
the  box.  Remove  it,  and  turn  the  lower  half  of  the 
box  over  to  stand  upon  its  upper  rim  so  that  its  top 
becomes  its  base. 

Cut  a  small  door  about  an  inch  high  in  the  edge 
of  the  lower  box  rim,  just,  as  you  see  it  in  the  picture 
of  my  box  windmill. 

On  its  rim,  farther  up,  cut  a  narrow  window.  A 
half-inch  square  cut  out  in  the  box  rim  will  make  this. 

The  roof  of  the  windmill  is  round  and  pointed.  It 
is  to  be  made  from  cardboard.  To  make  it,  take  your 
compass  and  draw  a  circle  twice  the  size  of  the  round 
base  of  your  box — or  about  that.  Cut  this  circle  out 
of  the  cardboard,  and  from  it  remove  a  quarter  piece 

[83] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

like  a  large  slice  cut  from  a  pie.  (See  Diagram 
Three,  D,  page  171.) 

Next,  lap  one  edge  of  your  three-quarter  circle 
over  its  opposite  side.  Glue  it  so.  This  gives  the 
round,  pointed  roof.  Paint  it,  if  you  wish,  with  your 
paints.    Color  it  bright  red  or  brown. 

Sails  for  windmill  need  to  be  cut  from  a  paper 
pattern.  This  pattern  must  be  made  from  soft  paper 
that  may  be  folded  easily.  Pad  paper  will  answer. 
Cut  a  square  of  pad  paper  that  is  half  the  height  of 
your  windmill.  Fold  this  square  together  to  make 
halves — then  again  to  make  quarter-sections.  Cut  in 
the  folded  quarter-section  the  figure  shown  for  shap- 
ing windmill  sails.  (See  Diagram  Five,  Zf  page 
174.)  Then  unfold  your  paper,  and,  placing  it  upon 
cardboard,  outline  all  around  its  edge  with  pencil. 
Then,  cut  the  outline  out.  This  is  the  sail  piece  for 
your  windmill.  (For  shape  of  pattern  for  windmill 
sails,  see  Diagram  Five,  ZZ.) 

Make  a  hole  through  its  center.  Press  through  it 
the  point  of  a  long  pencil. 

Make  two  holes  in  your  box,  near  the  top,  below 
the  roof — one  hole  exactly  opposite  the  other.  Run 
the  pencil  point  through  these  holes.  There!  The 
sails  are  in  place! 

[84] 


The   Windmill    is    made    from   a    round   box. 

cardboard. 


Its    roof   and   sails   are 


The  Boxville  Barn  and  Farmyard.     The  roof  of  the  barn  is  made  of  two 
shoe-box  covers.     The  fence  for  the  Barnyard  is  made  of  a  box  rim. 


BUILDING    A    TOY    WINDMILL 

Where  is  your  toy  cart?  Shall  it  go  cantering  over 
Box  Bridge  to  the  mill  with  some  corn  from  Boxville 
Farm?  What  a  windy  day  it  must  be  when  the  wind- 
mill sails  turn  so  fast! 

I  built  a  little  windmill, 

Its  sails  went  round  an'  round ; 
The  miller  was  a  tumble  toy, 

The  mill,  a  box  I  found. 

The  roof  is  made  of  paper, 

The  sails  are  paper,  too: 
It  is  easy  work  to  make  one, 

And  it's  lots  of  fun  to  do! 


[85] 


BOXVILLE  BARN  AND  FARMYARD 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Barn  and  Farm- 
yard: the  lower  half  of  a  large  shoe-box  and  two 
shoe-box  covers  that  fit  it,  a  ten-inch  square  of  card- 
board, and  the  rims  cut  from  a  shallow  box. 

Farms  are  such  very  interesting  places  that  I  am 
sure  you  will  enjoy  knowing  how  to  make  one  with 
a  big  barn  and  a  farmyard  where  your  toy  animals 
may  be  kept. 

You  may  easily  make  a  barn  like  the  one  in  the 
picture.  You  will  need  to  have  a  shoe-box  to  make 
the  building.  Two  shoe-box  covers  make  its  gabled 
roof.  Some  cardboard  is  needed  from  which  to  cut 
supports  for  the  roof. 

Begin  by  turning  your  box  over  upon  its  rim  so 
that  its  top  becomes  the  base  of  the  barn. 

In  one  end  of  the  barn,  cut  a  double  door.  To  make 
this,  nrsl^wsark  a  three-inch  square  upon  an  end  of 
your  box.     Draw  a  line  down  its  center,  vertically. 

[86] 


BOXVILLE    BARN    AND    FARMYARD 

(For  double  door,  see  Diagram  Two,  B}  page  167.) 
Cut  the  top  line  and  down  the  center  line.  The  base 
of  your  door  should  be  at  the  edge  of  the  box  rim. 
The  two  sections  cut  in  the  cardboard  make  the  doors. 
Press  each  outward. 

Next,  you  will  need  to  make  the  two  triangular 
supports  for  the  box-cover  roof.  These  supports  must 
be  cut  from  cardboard,  and  each  must  be  the  width 
of  an  end  of  your  box,  and  be  made  as  high  as  your 
box  is  wide.  (For  cutting  these  supports  for  a  gabled 
roof,  see  Diagram  Three,  BB}  page  169.)  Glue  one 
to  each  end  of  your  box,  at  the  upper  part. 

The  roof  is  made  from  your  two  box  covers  lapped 
one  rim  under  the  other,  lengthwise,  to  form  a  gabled 
roof  shape.  The  upper  part  is  glued  rim  under  rim. 
(See  Diagram  Three,  B.)  Let  the  roof  dry,  and  then 
slip  it  over  the  triangular  supports  pasted  at  each  end 
of  the  box  building  to  hold  the  roof  in  place. 

Cut  a  little  weather-vane  from  a  strip  of  cardboard, 
if  you  like,  and  paste  it  to  the  front  of  the  barn  roof. 

The  farmyard  is  made  from  box  rims  cut  from  any 
shallow  cardboard  box  you  have.  The  box  rims 
stand  if  you  cut  them  with  corners.  They  make  a 
good  enclosure. 

[87] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

A  small  box,  placed  on  end,  will  make  a  shed. 
The  cover  of  a  small  box  will  make  a  drinking- 
trough.    Little  boxes  make  chicken-coops. 

Mrs.  Tumble  Toy  lives  on  my  farm.  You  see  her 
in  the  picture.  Her  husband's  name  is  Bill.  He  is 
chasing  the  pig.    You  can  see  him,  too. 

Have  you  some  toys  that  would  like  to  live  on  your 
farm? 

Cock-a-doodle-doo ! 
Just  run  and  fetch  some  glue, 
Some  scissors,   and  a  shoe-box: 
We'll  make  a  farm  for  you! 

Cock-a-doodle-doo ! 
When  all  the  work  is  through, 
We'll  have  a  little  farmyard 
With  a  fence  around  it,  too! 


[88] 


BOX  BROTHERS'  ANIMAL  SHOW 

Material  Required  to  Make  an  Animal  Show: 

small  boxes  of  all  shapes  and  sizes,  spools,  and  candy- 
box  favors,  a  round  bandbox  cover  to  make  a  circus 
ring. 

The  cover  of  a  round  bandbox  will  make  a  splendid 
circus  ring.  Any  small  boxes  and  spools  you  may 
have  can  be  the  benches  for  your  trained  animals  to 
perform  upon.  A  really  good  circus  may  be  made 
with  Noah's  Ark  animals,  or  with  the  candy-box 
favors  that  come  to  one  at  Christmas  and  other  holi- 
day times. 

Shall  I  tell  you  how  I  made  my  circus?  You  can 
make  one  like  it. 

First  of  all,  I  collected  animals.  At  a  small  candy 
shop,  I  found  a  polar  bear,  a  rhinoceros,  a  fox,  and  a 
pig.  Each  came  with  a  loose  head,  because  the 
animals  were  supposed  to  be  filled  with  candy,  but  I 
glued  the  heads  on  tight.  I  bought  these  animals 
because  they  were  so  cheap. 

[89] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

They  could  stand  upon  spools  to  make  acts  for  the 
circus  ring.  I  painted  each  spool  red,  and  pasted 
over  its  hole  a  disk  of  colored  cardboard. 

From  round  box  covers  I  made  pyramids,  and  from 
square  ones  I  cut  benches.  (To  cut  bench  for  animal 
show,  see  Diagram  Six,  A,  page  175.)  Cut  a  leg 
at  each  corner  of  the  box-cover's  rim.  Remove  the 
cardboard   from  between  cuttings. 

Swartzenheimer  and  Mulligan  were  my  animal 
trainers.  Each  came  to  me  as  a  dinner  favor.  They 
were  both  little  figures  of  toy  men  that  stood  upon  a 
cake  of  sweet  chocolate.  You  can  easily  see  what  a 
splendid  clown  Mulligan  made. 

The  animals  performed  all  kinds  of  tricks.  They 
could  stand  upon  each  other's  backs.  I  had  two  or 
three  tumble  toys,  besides.  They  performed  splen- 
didly. 

I  am  sure  you  will  have  a  good  time  making  a 
circus.  It  is  ever  and  ever  so  much  fun,  I  think. 
You  can  use  any  animals  that  you  happen  to  have 
among  your  playthings. 

At  some  toy  shops,  you  will  find  celluloid  animals. 
At  Japanese  shops,  you  will  find  cotton  animals. 
In  your  own  Noah's  Ark  there  will  be  wooden  ani- 

[90] 


S2    c 


This  is  Box  Brothers'  Circus.    It  is  made  from  the  lower  part  of  a  round 

white  bandbox. 


A  view  taken  inside  the  Circus  Grounds.  The  walls  are  corrugated  card- 
board. The  cages  are  boxes  with  covers ;  and  the  booth  is  the  lower 
half  of  a  candy  box. 


BOX    BROTHERS'    ANIMAL    SHOW 

mals  and  your  Boxville  people — tumble  toys,  jointed 
dolls,  Halloween  figures,  and  favors  will  form  the 
trainers  and  performers  for  the  "Show." 

Wild  animals  and  domestic  animals  may  be  bought 
at  candy  stores  as  favors.  They  also  come  in  boxes  at 
the  shops  where  toys  are  found.  These  animals  should 
be  small — never  over  four  or  five  inches  in  length. 

My  animals  are  very  good : 

They  do  their  tricks  just  as  they  should! 

When  I  have  trained  them  all,  you'll  see 

What  a  fine  show  this  one  will  be! 

I'm  making  benches  for  it  now, 

And,  if  you  like,  I'll  tell  you  how. 


[91] 


CIRCUS  TENT  AND  CIRCUS  GROUNDS 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Circus  Tent:    a 

round  bandbox  and  a  sheet  of  cardboard. 

Material  Required  to  Make  Circus  Cages:  three 
or  four  hardware  boxes  from  three  to  five  inches  long. 
A  booth  may  be  made  from  half  of  a  flat  letter-paper 
box.  Some  cotton  mosquito-netting  will  be  the  cage 
bars. 

A  circus  tent  is  a  very  easy  thing  to  make.  It  needs 
nothing  but  a  sheet  of  cardboard  and  the  lower  half 
of  a  round  bandbox  to  make  it.  The  lower  half  of  the 
bandbox  must  be  turned  over  to  stand  upon  its  rims. 
This  forms  the  sides  of  the  circus  tent.  The  roof  is 
cut  from  a  large  circle  of  cardboard. 

First,  arrange  the  box  to  make  sides  for  the  tent. 
Then,  cut  the  roof. 

In  the  edge  of  the  bandbox  rim,  cut  out  a  piece  of 
cardboard  the  shape  of  tent  canvas  looped  back  to 
make  an  entrance.    Draw  some  folds  upon  this  with 

[92] 


CIRCUS    TENT    AND    CIRCUS    GROUNDS 

blue  pencil.  If  you  prefer,  use  your  water-color 
paints  instead. 

When  this  is  done,  glue  across  the  top  of  your  band- 
box some  strips  of  string  to  form  tent  ropes.  The 
roof  of  the  tent,  round  and  pointed,  may  next  be 
made. 

Take  a  large  sheet  of  cardboard  and  draw  upon  it 
a  circle  that  is  half  again  as  large  around  as  the  base 
of  your  bandbox.  Cut  this  out.  Cut  from  the  circle 
a  quarter  piece  like  the  slice  of  a  pie.  (See  Diagram 
Three,  D}  page  171.)  Lap  the  cut  sides  of  this 
three-quarter  circle,  and  glue  together  to  make  a 
pointed  roof  like  that  of  a  circus  tent.  When  the 
roof  is  dry,  slip  it  upon  the  top  of  the  hat-box,  and 
your  circus  tent  is  done. 

If  you  find  some  corrugated  cardboard,  it  may  be 
slightly  curled  and  pressed  so  that  it  will  stand  on  its 
rim,  to  make  a  board  fence  for  the  circus  enclosure. 
Of  course,  you  must  have  a  fence  1  Of  course! 

Hardware  boxes  that  come  with  covers  double  and 
close  telescope  fashion  make  very  good  circus  cages. 
To  make  these  cages,  you  will  need  to  cut  top  and 
bottom  from  the  boxes,  leaving  rims  only.  You  may, 
if  you  wish,  keep  a  very  narrow  margin  of  rim  around 

[93] 


THE  JOLLY   BOOK   OF  BOXCRAFT 

the  top  and  bottom  cutting  of  your  box.  Paste  strips 
of  coarse  netting,  like  cotton  mosquito  netting,  over 
each  opening  of  the  box.  It  should  be  glued  inside 
the  box  from  side  to  side.  This  makes  bars  for  the 
cages.  (For  cutting  a  box  to  make  a  cage,  see  Dia- 
gram Eight,  page  182.) 

Wheels  may  be  added  to  the  cages,  so  that  the 
animals  may  go  out  on  parade.  The  wheels  are 
small  circles  cut  from  cardboard.  There  should  be 
four  for  each  cage,  of  course.  When  they  are  cut  out 
from  the  cardboard,  fasten  each  through  its  center 
to  the  base  of  a  cage  by  a  round-headed  paper-fas- 
tener. The  prongs  of  the  paper-fastener  should  be 
bent  to  right  and  left  inside  the  covers  of  the  box. 
This  holds  wheels  firm.  If  you  have  no  paper-fasten- 
ers, sew  the  wheels  to  your  box  with  raffia,  or  glue 
them  to  your  box. 

A  booth  for  the  circus  grounds  may  be  made  from 
a  box  about  three  or  four  inches  in  size.  Stand  the 
box  on  its  long  side.  Cut  in  its  back  an  awning.  The 
awning  is  made  first  by  drawing  an  oblong  space  upon 
the  back  of  the  box,  cutting  this  outline  down  at  each 
side  line  and  across  its  base.  The  cardboard  is  then 
pressed  outward  and  upward  to  make  the  awning. 

[94] 


CIRCUS    TENT    AND    CIRCUS    GROUNDS 

(See  Diagram  One,  C,  page  166,  for  cutting  awning.) 
Color  the  awning  with  red  stripes. 

Side-show  tents  for  circus  grounds  are  made  like 
the  tents  of  Camp  Box.  (See  Diagram  Three,  E, 
page  171,  for  cutting  the  rim  of  a  shallow  box  and 
bending  it  to  make  a  tent.) 

All  toy  figures  that  you  can  muster — tumble  toys, 
wooden  dolls,  penny  dolls,  Noah's  Ark  ladies,  shep- 
herds and  shepherdesses,  should  go  to  Box  Brothers' 
Circus  on  the  play-room  floor.  If  you  look  among 
your  toys,  you  will  find  animals  for  the  circus,  I 
know.  They  may  even  be  animals  cut  from  old 
magazine  pictures. 

One  day  I  made  a  circus 

(A  bandbox  was  the  tent), 
I  advertised  in  Boxville, 

But  it  didn't  cost  a  cent! 

The  penny  dolls  of  Boxville 

Turned   out  on  Circus  Day! 
I  made  pretend  sell  peanuts, 

And  I  tell  you,  it  was  gay! 


[951 


BOXTOWN  ZOO  GARDEN 

Material   Required   to   Make  a   Boxtown   Zoo: 

some  shoe-boxes,  their  covers,  strips  of  cardboard  or 
toothpicks  to  make  bars  for  cages. 

A  zoo  is  really  a  splendid  thing  to  make.  You  can 
cage  all  your  wild  animals — Noah's  Ark  animals, 
or  whatever  other  ones  you  may  happen  to  have.  The 
cotton  animals  that  are  bought  in  Japanese  stores, 
"three  for  five,"  are  just  right  for  zoo  animals.  You 
can  buy  chenille  monkeys,  one  for  a  penny,  at  the  toy 
shops. 

When  you  start  to  build  your  zoo,  the  cages  will 
be  made  from  boxes.  Cut  out  a  large  square  from 
each  side  of  the  rim.  Toothpicks  make  bars  for  cages. 
They  will  need  to  be  pressed  down  through  the  top 
of  the  box  over  openings  you  cut  in  the  box  rims.  If 
you  have  no  toothpicks,  you  may  make  bars  for  the 
cages  by  pasting  very  narrow  strips  of  paper  or  card- 
board inside  the  box  cages  over  the  openings  in  the 

[96] 


This  is  Boxtown  Zoo.     Its  cages  are  cut  from  shoe-boxes.     Box  rims  are 
used  to  make  enclosures  for  the  animals. 


Boxtown's  Hose  House.    It  is  made  from  a  deep  square  box.     The  roof  is 
the  cover  of  another  box. 


BOXTOWN    ZOO    GARDEN 

box  rims.  (For  cutting  a  zoo  cage,  see  Diagram 
Eight,  page  182.) 

Dens  for  animals  are  boxes  that  have  their  covers 
taken  off.  These  boxes  must  be  turned  over  to  stand 
on  their  upper  rims.  Doors  are  cut  in  the  edge  of 
box  rims,  as  you  see  them  in  the  picture. 

Rims  cut  from  box  covers  make  fences  for  en- 
closures. 

Little  box  covers  make  feeding-troughs. 

"Do  not  worry  the  animals!"  This  is  the  rule  of 
all  zoos. 

I  have  a  lion,  and  a  bear, 

I  have  a  tiger,  too! 
A  monkey,  and  a  "nelephant," 

And  so  I  made  a  zoo! 

I  put  a  tiger  in  a  cage, 

An',  if  you're  good  to-day, 
I'll  show  you  how  I  made  it, 

For  it's  lots  of  fun  to  play. 


[97] 


BOXTOWN  HOSE  HOUSE 

Material  Required  for  Making  a  Hose  House: 

a  box  deep  and  square,  about  six  or  seven  inches  long, 
and  the  shallow  square  cover  of  some  larger  box. 

If  you  own  a  toy  fire-engine  or  a  hook  and  ladder, 
there  is  every  reason  why  it  should  have  a  home. 
The  engine-house  that  you  see  in  the  picture  is  made 
from  a  deep,  square  box.  It  is  quickly  made  by  cut- 
ting a  square  doorway  in  one  side  of  the  box  rim 
and  by  adding  a  flat  roof. 

Turn  your  box  over  so  that  it  rests  inverted  upon 
its  rims.  Outline  a  three-  or  four-inch  square  on  one 
end  of  your  box.  Its  base  must  come  at  the  edge  of 
your  cardboard  box  rim. 

Draw  a  line  down  the  center  of  this  square,  ver- 
tically. Cut  with  scissors  up  this  line  and  across  the 
top  line.  This  gives  two  doors,  that  should  be  pressed 
outward  against  the  sides  of  your  box.  (See  Diagram 
Two,  B,  page  167,  for  making  the  double  doorway.) 

Place  over  the  top  of  the  box  the  cover  of  a  larger 

[98] 


BOXTOWN    HOSE   HOUSE 

box,  and  the  hose  house  will  be  finished.  Why,  it 
took  you  no  time  at  all  to  do  that,  did  it?  Let's  see 
how  the  toy  engine  looks  inside  its  new  building! 

I  have  a  little  engine, 

And  it  clangs  across  the  floor 
Right  into  Boxville  Hose  House, 

Where  they've  opened  wide  its  door. 


[99] 


*hM 


HOW  TO  MAKE  A  WIGWAM 

Material  Required  to  Make  the  Wigwam:  half 
a  round  bandbox  cover  and  a  few  small  sticks  or 
pencils. 

Why,  of  course,  you  may  make  an  Indian  wigwam! 
It  will  take  about  two  minutes  to  make  one  like  this 
one  in  the  picture.  With  it,  you  may  play  all  kinds 
of  Indian  plays.  It  will  be  ever  such  fun!  You  will 
need  half  an  old  bandbox  cover  to  help  make  the 
wigwam.    The  cover  must  be  a  round  one. 

One  bandbox  cover  will  make  two  wigwams.  Cut 
the  cover  into  halves.  Take  one  of  these  and  lap  its 
edges  to  form  a  cone.  Glue  or  sew  these  edges  to- 
gether. 

Cut  off  the  point  of  the  cone.  This  makes  the 
opening  at  top  of  the  wigwam. 

In  the  rim  of  the  bent  bandbox  cone,  cut  a  flap, 
and  bend  this  back  against  the  outer  side  of  the  tent. 
Stand  the  tent  up  upon  its  broad  base,  and  there  will 

[ioo] 


The  Indian  Wigwam  is  cut  from  half  of  a  round  bandbox  cover. 


This  is  Fort  Box.     It  is  made  from  a  deep  box  and  its  cover. 


HOW    TO    MAKE    A    WIGWAM 

be  its  entrance.  Small  sticks  or  thin  pencils  may  be 
thrust  through  the  top  to  make  tent  sticks.  Indian 
symbols  may  be  painted  on  the  sides  of  the  tent. 

I  had  an  Indian  doll,  Big  Chief  Ten  Cent  Store. 
He  came  in  a  canoe  made  of  wood.  I  made  a  green 
woods  for  him  out  of  crape  paper,  and  he  lived  near 
a  silver  paper  spring  upon  my  play-room  floor  in  his 
home. 

All  the  toy  animals  that  I  have  played  in  the 
woods  and  Big  Chief  Ten  Cent  Store  hunted  them. 
There  was  a  deer  that  came  off  our  Christmas  tree, 
and  a  whole  family  of  china  bunnies,  and — and  you 
just  ought  to  see  him  on  the  trail  of  Noah's  Ark 
animals!  And — and  you  ought  to  see  the  lovely  mats 
that  are  inside  the  Indian's  tent.  I  made  them  at 
Kindergarten  myself. 

By  the  shores  of  Abigmirror, 
By  the  shining  of  its  water, 
Stood  the  wigwam  of  Big  Box  Chief, 
Builded   from   a   half  a  bandbox. 
Dark  behind  it  rose  a  mountain 
Made  of  paper-covered  boxes: 
There  were  pebble  rocks  upon  it, 
Caverns  where  Big  Box  Chief  hunted. 

[IOI] 


FORT  BOX 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Box  Fort:  a  deep, 
square  box  with  its  cover.  A  round  hair-pin  box  and 
a  spool  will  make  a  cannon  for  the  fort. 

Would  you  like  to  make  a  fort  for  your  leaden 
soldiers?  Shall  I  tell  you  how  to  do  it?  If  your 
soldiers  are  small,  a  box  three  inches  deep  may  answer 
for  the  building.  Its  cover  forms  ramparts  of  the 
fort. 

To  start  the  building  of  your  fort,  turn  your  box 
over  upon  its  rims  so  that  its  base  becomes  the  top 
of  the  building.  Take  the  box  cover  off  and  lay  it 
aside. 

Find  a  pencil  and  mark  the  openings  for  guns. 
They  are  made  like  windows  upon  the  box  front. 
Draw  each  about  a  half-inch  square,  and  use  your 
ruler  to  make  each  opening  even.  Cut  these  squares 
out,  if  you  wish.  They  may  also  be  painted  black, 
should  you  prefer  not  to  cut  them  out. 

[102] 


FORT    BOX 

To  add  ramparts  to  the  building,  take  the  cover 
of  your  box  and  make  a  pencil  mark  upon  its  rim 
every  half-inch  all  the  way  around.  Cut  sections 
from  the  rim,  as  marked,  every  other  half-inch.  Turn 
the  box  with  its  rim  upward  and  glue  it  to  the  top 
of  your  box.  (For  making  ramparts,  see  Diagram 
Three,  F,  page  172.) 

At  the  back  of  the  fort,  you  may  easily  devise  a 
sallyport  by  cutting  the  cardboard  door  shaped.  (For 
cutting  a  door,  see  Diagram  Two,  A,  page  167.) 

A  toy  cannon  may  be  made  with  a  small  round 
hair-pin  box  by  pasting  it  upon  the  side  of  a  spool 
between  the  wheels  of  the  spool.  A  thumb-tack 
pressed  beneath  one  wheel  of  the  cannon  will  keep  it 
upright  and  prevent  rolling.  I  painted  my  guns 
black.  If  you  like,  you  may  easily  do  this  with  water- 
color  paints. 

An  encampment  of  tents  may  be  made  from  small 
white  box  covers  cut  through  each  long  side  rim  up 
to  the  top  of  the  cover  and  bent,  to  each  side  of  the 
center  downward.  (See  Diagram  Three,  E,  page 
171,  for  making  a  tent.) 

If  you  happen  to  have  a  penny  flag,  it  will  be  just 
the  very  thing  to  wave  over  Fort  Box. 

[103] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

You  can  arrange  your  fort  upon  a  sheet  of  crape 
paper  and  make  streams  and  woods  all  about  it.  The 
streams  will  be  strips  of  silver  paper  pasted  onto  the 
green  crape  paper.  The  woods  will  be  bits  of  twigs 
pressed  into  the  holes  of  spools  so  that  the  trees  stand 
upright.  Bushes  are  just  bits  of  twigs  that  may  be 
laid  down  flat.  Rocks  and  mountains  may  be  made 
from  stones. 

I  had  a  leaden  soldier, 

His  name  was  Tommie  Tin! 
Oh,  he  was  brave  in  battle, 

And  always  fought  to  win! 

I  made  him  into  general, 

And  he  is  in  command 
Of  all  my  Boxville  Army 

At  Box  Fort  in  Boxland. 


[104] 


HOW  TO  BUILD  A  TOY  CASTLE  AND  A 
FAIRYLAND  HOUSE 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Castle:  any  box, 
either  round  or  square — one  at  least  six  or  seven 
inches  deep  is  best. 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Fairyland  House: 

an  oblong  box  deep  enough  for  door  and  windows 
to  be  cut  in  its  sides,  a  few  little  crackers  or  "goodies" 
— possibly  some  gilt  or  silver  paper  in  place  of  these. 

Have  you  ever  played  in  fairyland?  Well,  if  you 
have  not  been  there,  you  can  very  well  make  a  fairy- 
land upon  the  play-room  floor,  and  in  it  you  may 
gather  together  all  the  people  of  your  Red,  and  Blue, 
and  Green,  and  Yellow  Fairy  Books.  These  people 
will  be  Knights,  and  Princesses,  Witches,  Goblins, 
Fairies.  All  are  toys,  and  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  get 
them  together — quite  as  easy  as  it  is  to  make  a  fairy- 
land castle. 

[io5] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

I  will  tell  you  how.  First,  you  may  like  to  build 
the  castle,  for  that  is  all-important.  There  never  yet 
was  a  fairyland  without  that! 

Find  some  deep  box  with  its  cover.  It  really  mat- 
ters little  whether  the  box  is  round  or  square-sided. 
A  round  box  will  make  a  high  tower-like  castle 
similar  to  the  one  in  the  picture.  A  square  one  will 
make  one  more  like  a  fortress.  It  scarcely  matters 
which  you  choose.  Take  the  cover  from  your  box. 
This  is  to  form  the  castle  ramparts  later.  High  up 
in  the  box  rim  cut  one  or  two  long  tower  windows. 
Cut  a  door  at  the  base  of  the  rim.  Next  cut  the  ram- 
parts in  the  box  cover.  (For  cutting  ramparts,  see 
Diagram  Three,  F,  page  172.)  Glue  these  to  the  top 
of  your  castle  box — and  the  castle  is  made! 

The  Princess  who  lives  in  the  Castle  is  a  penny  doll 
dressed  in  a  silver  robe  (made  of  tinfoil).  My  Prin- 
cess has  golden  hair.  It  is  long  and  beautiful.  You 
can  see  it  in  the  picture. 

The  Knight  is  a  leaden  soldier.  His  spear  is  a  bit 
of  wire.  His  shield  is  a  brass  button,  polished  and 
shining. 

You  can  easily  find  the  proper  kind  of  dragon  at 
a  little  Japanese  shop.    Mine  was  made  of  crockery 

[106] 


A  TOY  CASTLE  AND  A  FAIRYLAND  HOUSE 

and  cost  ten  cents,  but  you  will  surely  find  among  the 
cotton  animals  that  are  sold  three  for  five  cents  some- 
thing far  better  than  my  crockery  dragon.  There  are 
the  most  dragon-like  of  cotton  animals  at  the  Japanese 
stores  where  I  buy  penny  toys.  Sometimes  they 
are  spidery  and  sometimes  they  are  like  crocodiles — 
only  they  aren't  crocodiles  but  DRAGONS.  When 
you  go  to  a  Japanese  shop  and  look  for  penny  animals 
you  will  know  exactly  what  I  mean.  They  are  all 
queer,  and  will  work  into  any  fanciful  fairy  tale  that 
you  wish  to  play  with  your  castle. 

Don't  forget  to  make  the  dragon  a  lair,  when  you 
have  bought  him.  It  may  be  just  a  box  with  a  hole 
in  it  for  the  mouth  of  a  den,  but  if  you  have  some 
pretty  stones  and  pebbles,  you  can  build  a  real  lair 
on  the  play-room  floor  with  these. 

Almost  any  fairy  tale  may  be  acted  out  with  the 
Knight  and  the  Princess.  Little  toys  which  you  have 
among  your  playthings  may  help  out.  I  know  you 
will  have  a  good  time  playing  at  fairyland.    I  did. 

I  built  me  a  Hansel  and  Gretel  house,  too.  This 
was  to  help  with  my  fairyland  play. 

Hansel  and  Gretel  were  two  tumble  toys — a  boy 
and  a  girl.    Their  home  was  in  a  Boxville  Cottage. 

[107] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK   OF    BOXCRAFT 

When  they  went  to  the  woods  and  found  the  Witch's 
House,  I  made  that.  It  was  in  a  forest  of  clothes-pins 
like  the  trees  made  for  Camp  Box. 

I  made  the  fairyland  house  of  the  Witch  from  a 
deep  oblong  box.  I  cut  two  windows  in  one  rim  and 
a  door  between  them,  as  you  see  it  in  the  picture  of  the 
fairyland  house. 

To  the  sides  of  the  house,  I  pasted  some  little 
crackers  and  goodies.  The  roof  of  the  house  was  of 
crackers.    It  was  very  fairy. 

I  used  some  pretzels  for  a  fence  around  it. 

There  were  some  small  celluloid  dolls  among  my 
playthings,  and  I  made  fairies  of  them.  You  can  see 
one  that  is  a  Daisy.  Her  dress  is  an  artificial  flower 
off  my  old  hat.  I  took  the  center  out  of  the  daisy 
and  made  a  skirt  of  the  petals.  The  fairy's  wings 
were  cut  from  white  tissue-paper.  They  were  glued 
to  the  back  of  her  body. 

All  kinds  of  Hallowe'en  figures  that  are  little 
favors  will  answer  splendidly  for  this  fairy  boxcraft 
play.  You  can  easily  find  dwarfs,  gnomes,  goblins, 
witches,  elves.    Oh,  it  will  be  fun,  I  know! 

In  summer  you  can  go  out  into  the  garden  and 
gather  hollyhocks.    The  flowers  make  real  little  flow- 

[108] 


■1 

y 

jji 
m 

K 

A  Fairyland  Castle  made  from  a  round  box  and  its  cover. 


_ 

* 

1 

s* 

gi 

*^  *** 

1 

d^imk 

A  Fairy  House  made  of  a  box  covered  with  goodies. 


ill 

■ 

a 

Building  Blocks  and  Box  Building  with  small  boxes. 


Building  Animals  and  Box  People  from  a  collection  of  boxes. 


A  TOY   CASTLE  AND  A   FAIRYLAND  HOUSE 

er  ladies — just  like  fairies  dressed  up  in  red,  and  pink, 
and  white  dresses  to  go  to  a  party.  The  buds  of  the 
hollyhocks  make  the  heads  for  the  ladies,  and  you  just 
stick  a  pin  through  these  and  press  it  down  at  the  base 
of  the  full  blown  flower  to  make  the  fairy  lady. 
Acorns  make  fairy  dishes  too — did  you  ever  happen 
to  know  that! 

Once  there  lived  a  dolly  princess,  with  soft,  flaxen,  curly  hair, 
By  a  cruel  spell  imprisoned  near  a  Chinese  dragon's  lair. 
Day  and  night  her  pasteboard  tower,  dragon-guarded,  you'll  agree, 
Offered  ill  to  those  in  Toyland  who  would  set  the  Princess  free. 
Many  little  dolls  essayed  it — in  a  truly  frightful  way 
They  were  gobbled  by  the  dragon  one  and  all,  I  hate  to  say! 
But  there  came  a  leaden  soldier,,  all  in  tinfoil  armor  dressed ; 
Bravely  on  his  steed  he  bore  him,  valiant,  in  his  chosen  quest. 
At  his  blow,  the  green  tin  dragon  toppled  over,  vanquished  quite, 
And  the  rescued  dolly  princess  was  set  free,  then,  by  her  Knight. 
King  and  Queen,  they  reign  in  Playtown  even  to  this  very  day. 
And  they  live  forever  happy,  as  the  fairy  stories  say ! 


[109] 


BOXES  USED  AS  BLOCKS 

Material  Required  for  Block  Building:  an  as- 
sortment of  boxes  varied  in  size  and  shape. 

Building  with  blocks  is  always  fun,  as  you  know. 
You  have  tried  it  with  cubes,  and  with  dominoes,  and 
with  cards — but  did  you  ever  try  to  build  with  boxes 
in  the  same  way? 

The  boxes  do  not  need  to  be  glued.  Their  covers 
may  or  may  not  be  used.  Small  boxes  make  walls, 
and  box  covers  form  roofs.  You  will  see  a  tall  block 
building  in  the  picture.  It  was  made  from  small 
drug-store  boxes.  There  is  really  no  end  to  the  ways 
in  which  you  may  build  with  these. 

From  boxes  of  uneven  size,  men  and  animals  may 
be  made.  Round  boxes  or  small  oblong  boxes  form 
heads.  Larger  boxes  make  bodies.  Legs  and  arms 
are  boxes  of  equal  size. 

The  faces  are  drawn  with  pencil  upon  the  back 
of  boxes  where  there  is  no  print,    A  wire  hair-pin 

[no] 


BOXES    USED    AS    BLOCKS 

will  keep  the  arms  in  place.  It  will  need  to  be 
pressed  through  the  box  sides  and  bent  so  that  the 
arm  boxes  may  be  slipped  upon  it.  Men  of  all  sorts 
may  be  made.  There  is  great  variety,  as  forms  vary 
with  the  shape  and  size  of  boxes  that  you  use. 

If  you  are  playing  with  some  other  child,  you  will 
find  that  it  is  amusing  to  divide  your  store  of  boxes, 
each  choosing  one  at  a  time  till  the  supply  is  ex- 
hausted. Then,  you  may  each  see  how  many  different 
things  you  can  build.  It  will  be  a  game,  and  the 
winner  will  be  the  one  who  can  make  the  most  with 
his  store. 

It  is  entertaining  to  play  with  box  animals  and  box 
men  when  you  have  to  spend  a  day  in  bed.  They 
may  be  placed  upon  a  table  near  the  bedside.  They 
are  light  to  handle,  and  they  require  no  cutting  or 
pasting  to  muss  you  up.  If  you  decide  to  have  measles 
or  mumps,  the  little  boxes  may  be  disposed  of  easily 
after  you  have  played  with  them.  You  can  always 
find  new  ones  to  take  their  place  when  you  are  well 
again. 

You  may  make  a  puzzle  for  yourself  out  of  a  large 
box  and  a  number  of  smaller  boxes  of  varied  size. 
Try  to  pack  as  many  boxes  as  you  can  into  the  large 

tin] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

box.  Make  them  come  as  evenly  as  you  can  in  pack- 
ing. There  will  be  some  space  at  sides,  but  with  care 
and  thought  you  will  be  surprised  to  see  how  small 
a  space  they  may  be  packed  into.  Try  them  in  various 
forms,  till  you  are  sure  you  have  reached  the  best  way 
to  arrange  them.  Then,  give  the  box  puzzle  to  some 
friend  to  see  if  he  can  do  with  one  or  two  attempts 
what  you  have  accomplished.  When  you  give  some 
person  this  puzzle,  mix  your  boxes  well  so  there  is 
nc  clue  to  their  proper  arrangement  inside  the  larger 
box. 

Toys  like  trains  may  be  built  with  little  more  than 
a  long  cracker  box  for  a  coach  and  some  oblong  box 
for  engine.  The  engine's  smoke-stack  is  a  round  box. 
Its  coal-car  is  a  cover  taken  from  a  candy  box.  Its 
wheels  are  buttons  or  button  molds  placed  on  the 
ends  of  wire  hair-pins  that  have  been  pressed  through 
the  sides  of  the  cardboard  boxes.  A  bit  of  wax  or 
plasticine  will  keep  the  wheels  in  place. 

Paste  boxes  to  the  back  of  your  cut-outs  when  you 
buy  these  sheets  at  the  penny  store.  The  Indians, 
cowboys,  soldiers,  and  animals  will  then  stand  erect 
by  themselves. 

You  will  have  an  interesting  time,  I  am  sure,  in 

[H2] 


A  Toy  Train  that  is  built  from  boxes.     Its  wheels  are  button  molds. 


Cut-out  Pictures  may  be  made  to  stand  when  glued  to  small  boxes. 


'***  y^  ^pH 

*4PPt  Vw 

-V ";    '.      .               ■■    ■•                  :     ■     >    . 

A  Noah's  Ark  with  cracker  animals. 


A  Savings-bank  made  to  hold  pennies.     The  pennies  are  dropped  down  its 

chimney. 


BOXES    USED    AS    BLOCKS 

finding  new  ways  to  use  your  boxes  in  this  kind  of 
play.  It  is  always  new,  for  you  may  always  find 
different  kinds  of  boxes  to  adapt  to  the  building.  And 
the  nice  thing  about  it  is  that  you  can  make  almost 
anything  you  choose. 

I  never  knew  before — did  you? — 
How  much  a  cardboard  box  could  do! 
I  can  make  buildings,  now  and  then 
I  make  some  animals  and  men! 
Indeed,  it's  wonderful  to  play 
With  little  boxes  in  this  way! 


[113] 


MAKING  A  NOAH'S  ARK  FOR  CRACKER 
ANIMALS 

Material  Required  for  Making  a  Noah's  Ark: 
a  child's  shoe-box  without  a  cover,  the  cover  of  a  large 
shoe-box,  and  some  shallow  box  with  cover  about  ten 
inches  by  four. 

Next  time  that  you  have  cracker  animals  to  play 
with,  build  them  an  ark!  It  is  splendid  fun.  I  will 
tell  you  how  to  do  it. 

Find  the  materials  needed  to  build  with — a  shoe- 
box  cover,  the  lower  half  of  a  child's  shoe-box,  and 
the  whole  of  some  very  shallow  box  about  ten  inches 
long  and  at  least  four  inches  wide. 

To  make  the  base  of  the  Noah's  ark,  use  the  large 
shoe-box  cover.  Cut  its  rims  off.  Cut  each  end 
pointed.      The  ark  building  is  placed  on  this. 

The  ark  building  is  made  from  the  small  shoe-box. 
.  Place  it  upon  its  rims  so  that  its  bottom  becomes  top. 

Cut  a  door  in  one  end  of  the  box  on  the  edge  of  the 

["4] 


A    NOAH'S    ARK    FOR    CRACKER    ANIMALS 

box  rim.  To  make  this,  cut  up  from  the  edge  of  the 
rim  two  inches  near  the  center  of  the  box  end.  Then 
cut  horizontally  across  the  box  two  inches  more. 
(To  cut  door,  see  Diagram  Two,  A,  page  167.)  After 
cutting,  bend  the  door  as  if  it  were  on  a  hinge.  A 
round-headed  paper-fastener  will  make  a  door-knob 
and  latch.  Press  the  points  of  the  fastener  through 
the  cardboard  door  and  bend  the  prongs,  or  points, 
to  one  side  together.  In  this  way,  animals  may  be 
securely  locked  into  the  ark. 

Cut  two  triangular  supports  for  the  roof  of  the 
ark.  They  should  be  cut  in  heavy  cardboard  and 
made  equal-sided.  The  width  of  one  end  of  your 
box  will  give  you  the  dimensions  to  make  these.  (See 
Diagram  Three,  BB)  page  169.)  Paste  one  of  these 
cardboard  pieces  to  each  end  of  the  ark  building  near 
the  top  part  of  the  box.  Let  both  dry  well  before 
attempting  to  put  a  roof  upon  them. 

The  roof  is  made  of  the  two  parts  of  the  shallow 
box.  Lap  the  long  rim  of  one  part  over  the  long  rim 
of  the  other.  Glue  the  two  rims  together,  one  over  the 
other.  (For  making  a  gable  roof  from  two  box 
covers  or  from  the  halves  of  a  shallow  box,  see  Dia- 
gram Three,  B,  page  169.)  When  the  glue  is  dry,  slip 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

the  roof  over  the  gabled  points  of  the  ark  building. 
Now,  when  the  rains  descend  and  floods  come  and 
there  is  a  RAINY  DAY  ahead  of  you,  just  summon 
the  cracker  animals  from  the  pantry.  Arrange  them 
in  pairs.  Find  a  doll  for  Mr.  Noah  and  a  piece  of 
paper  to  make  the  dove.  A  footstool  will  be  Mount 
Ararat,  and  the  ark  may  voyage  all  the  whole  day 
upon  the  play-room  floor.  When  the  sun  comes  out, 
you  will  have  been  so  busy  all  day  that  you  will  have 
quite  forgotten  about  the  rain. 

Two  by  two!    Two  by  two! 
Elephant  and  kangaroo! 
Box  and  box  covers  to-day 
Make  a  Noah's  Ark  for  play. 
Maybe,  later,  you  may  feast 
On  an  unpaired  cracker  beast! 
Two  by  two!  Two  by  two! 
Elephant  and  kangaroo! 


[116] 


A  BOX  SAVINGS-BANK  FOR  PENNIES 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Savings-bank:  a 
box  in  which  correspondence  cards  have  been  packed, 
a  small  box  with  a  sliding  cover,  and  another  similar 
to  it. 

When  I  began  to  make  boxcraft  toys,  I  used  to  save 
my  pennies  to  buy  pinwheel  paper,  cotton  animals, 
and  little  figures  to  use  in  Boxville.  Then,  when  I 
found  that  I  should  need  crape  paper  or  silver  paper, 
or  a  mirror  for  a  pool,  I  had  money  to  buy  it. 

Perhaps  you  would  like  to  know  how  to  make  a 
Savings-bank  for  pennies  too? 

You  will  need  some  small  box  like  that  in  which 
correspondence  cards  come  packed  at  stationery 
stores.    It  has  a  double  cover. 

Turn  the  box  over  so  that  the  printing  on  its  top 
is  hidden.  Make  the  top  of  your  box  the  bottom  by 
turning  it  over. 

Draw  two  windows  and  a  door  on  one  side  of  the 
box.    Paint  them,  if  you  like. 

Paste  over  the  door  a  porch  roof  made  from  half 

[»7] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

of  one  small  box.  The  floor  of  the  porch  is  pasted 
under  it. 

Remove  the  drawer  from  the  little  box  with  sliding 
cover.  The  outside  of  the  box,  as  you  may  have 
noticed,  is  like  a  tall  chimney. 

Take  this  and  stand  it  on  end  at  the  top  of  your  box. 
Draw  its  outline  with  pencil  on  the  cardboard.  Then 
remove  the  box  and  cut  out  the  outline  just  inside  the 
lines  you  made. 

When  this  is  done,  you  must  glue  the  chimney  over 
the  open  hole.  Glue  it  tight  and  let  it  dry  well.  The 
pennies,  dimes,  and  nickels  may  be  dropped  down  this 
chimney  into  the  bank. 

There  is  one  rule  which  governs  this  savings  ac- 
count in  my  bank — five  cents  must  always  stay  in  the 
bank  to  be  "a  nest  egg."    I  made  this  rule  myself. 

I  made  a  little  penny  bank, 

I'm  saving  pennies  now! 
It  takes  a  lot  of  patience, 

But  I'm  doing  it,  somehow! 

My  bank  has  a  tall  chimney, 

The  pennies  drop  down  through: 

It's  really  fun  to  drop  them 
And  hear  them  jingle,  too! 

[118] 


HOW  TO   MAKE  A  TOY  WAGON  AND 
SLED    OR    SLEIGH 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Toy  Wagon:   the 

half  of  any  oblong  cardboard  box.  A  few  square 
inches  of  cardboard  will  be  required,  from  which  to 
cut  cardboard  disks  for  the  wheels  of  the  cart. 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Sleigh:  one  ob- 
long cardboard  box  with  its  cover.  A  sled  may  be 
made  from  the  cover  or  lower  half  of  any    ong  box. 

If  you  wish  to  make  a  toy  wagon,  find  the  half  of 
some  cardboard  box.  Turn  this  upward  if  it  is  the 
cover.  Keep  the  lower  half,  if  you  use  that,  as  it  is, 
upright,  open  at  the  top.  This  is  the  body  of  the 
wagon. 

Take  your  compass  and  with  it  draw  on  some  card- 
board four  circles  of  the  same  size.  These  are  the 
four  wagon  wheels.    Cut  each  out. 

Find  two  small  sticks  in  the  garden.     They  must 

['■9l 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

each  be  a  trifle  longer  than  the  width  of  your  box. 
Press  each  through  the  end  of  the  box  where  wheels 
should  come — press  clear  through  both  opposite  rims 
of  your  box.  Then  press  a  wheel  upon  each  end  of  a 
stick,  and  put  a  bit  of  wax  or  some  glue  where  the 
linchpin  should  come.  Let  the  glue  dry  thoroughly 
before  you  attempt  to  play  with  your  toy. 

A  strip  of  cardboard  cut  to  fit  the  width  of  the  cart 
and  glued  across  its  upper  forward  rims  will  make 
the  driver's  seat. 

The  shafts  are  two  strips  of  cardboard  pasted  to 
the  forward  sides  of  the  cart.  Cut  each  about  half  the 
length  of  your  box. 

Whoa  there!  Back  up — back!  There  is  your  toy 
horse  in  the  shafts.  He  is  waiting  for  you  to  tie  his 
string  harness.  He  will  be  ready  then  to  go  on  a 
trot  round  the  floor. 

If  you  wish  to  make  a  sled,  take  the  lower  half  of 
a  box  and  turn  it  over.  Its  long  side  rims  will  become 
the  runners  of  the  sled.  Cut  the  end  rims  off  the  box. 
Then,  cut  off  each  corner  of  the  side  rims  of  the  box, 
slanting  your  corner  cuttings  in  the  same  direction. 
There  you  have  the  runners  of  your  sled!  (See 
Diagram  Ten,  A,  page  184.) 

[120] 


Toy  Wagon  made  from  half  of  an  oblong  box.    A  Sled  cut  from  the  lower 
half  of  a  box;  the  runners  are  made  from  the  box  rims. 


A  Sleigh  made  from  the  cover  and  the  lower  half  of  a  box.     It  has  been 

painted. 


Doll's  Crib  made  from  the  lower  half  of  a  box,  with  pill-box  legs.     The 
Go-cart  is  cut  from  half  of  an  oblong  box.     The  Basket  is  half  a  box. 


jar ' 

P,::* ^^^BS^n 

Hf       *£Em 

1                    HL      ^Ki* 

■ 

^1 

a 

JT  w^Sl 

'a^  ■ 

B^^|M 

&— 

fcr 

J§9*                 ■■'-" 

5§ 

«ti 

£& 

The  Express  Wagon  is  the  cover  of  a  candy  box.  Its  handle  and  its 
wheels  are  cut  from  cardboard.  The  Little  Doll  may  have  a  sled 
cut  from  a  candy  box. 


A   TOY    WAGON    AND    SLED    OR    SLEIGH 

To  make  the  sleigh,  you  will  need  to  use  the  cover 
of  your  box.  Turn  it  so  that  it  opens  at  top.  Cut  the 
side  rims  the  shape  of  the  upper  portion  of  a  sleigh, 
and  glue  the  cover  to  the  runners.  A  small  box  will 
make  two  seats  for  the  sleigh.  Fit  the  cover  into  the 
back  of  the  sleigh  and  the  lower  half  into  the  forward 
part.  (See  Diagram  Ten,  page  184,  for  making 
sleigh.    A,  runners;  B,  top.) 

When  it  is  winter  in  Boxville,  cotton-battng  makes 
snow,  and  my  horse,  harnessed  to  the  sleigh,  with  a 
sleigh-bell  on  his  neck,  goes  jingling  through  Main 
Street.  The  boy  dolls  catch  their  sleds  to  the  back 
of  the  sleigh. 

My  Teddy  Bear,  he  likes  to  play 
With  little  toys  I  make  this  way: 
The  cover  of  a  box  may  be 
A  wagon  like  the  one  you  see. 
Or,  maybe,  I  may  make  a  sled 
For  little  Teddy  Bear,  instead! 


[121] 


THE    CHINA    DOLL'S    CRIB,    GO-CART, 
AND    MAY   BASKET 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  China  Doll's  Crib: 

the  lower  half  of  some  oblong  box,  and  four  small 
oblong  pill-boxes  of  equal  size  to  make  the  legs  of 
the  bed. 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Doll's  Go-cart: 
the  lower  half  of  an  oblong  box  about  seven  inches 
in  length,  and  some  cardboard  to  make  wheels. 
Wheels  may  also  be  made  from  top  and  base  of  a 
small  round  box  three  inches  in  diameter. 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Doll's  May  Bas- 
ket: the  cover  or  top  of  any  small  box  you  may  have; 
also  a  small  strip  of  cardboard  and  two  round-headed 
paper-fasteners. 

See,  here  is  a  china  doll's  crib  in  the  picture.  You 
can  see  how  easy  it  is  to  make  it.  I  hardly  need  to 
tell  you.    Just  take  the  cover  or  the  lower  half  of  the 

[122] 


DOLL'S    CRIB,    GO-CART,    MAY    BASKET 

box  you  wish  to  use,  and  cut  off  a  part  of  each  long 
rim — there  is  the  top  of  the  crib  with  its  head  and 
foot. 

To  each  corner  below  its  base  glue  the  end  of  a 
small  oblong  pill-box.  There!  Isn't  that  an  easy 
and  quick  way  to  make  a  toy  crib  for  a  doll? 

If  you  wish  to  make  a  cradle,  cut  the  box  in  the 
same  way,  and  cut  a  circle  once  again  as  wide  as  the 
width  of  your  box.  Cut  this  circle  into  half,  and 
each  half  will  be  a  rocker  for  the  cradle.  Glue  one 
to  each  end  of  the  box.    That  is  all! 

To  make  a  doll's  go-cart  like  the  one  in  the  picture, 
take  the  cover  or  the  lower  half  of  any  oblong  box 
similar  to  a  candy  box,  one-pound  size.  Cut  the  rim 
from  it  half-way  around,  beginning  in  the  center  of 
one  long  side.  Next,  cut  from  the  part  that  is  with- 
out rim  the  handle  of  the  cart,  as  you  see  the  box  cut 
in  the  picture. 

Next,  cut  two  circles  from  cardboard  to  make  the 
wheels  of  the  go-cart.  Each  circle  must  be  of  equal 
size.  Make  each  about  three  inches  in  diameter, 
unless  your  box  is  more  than  eight  inches  long.  In 
this  case  cut  your  cardboard  circles  to  correspond, 
larger. 

[123] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Run  a  stick  or  a  long  pencil  through  one  circle,  and 
press  the  point  of  the  stick  through  a  lower  corner 
of  the  box  through  to  the  other  side,  where  you  put 
on  the  other  cardboard  circle  for  the  other  wheel. 
Your  stick  or  pencil  must  be  one  inch  longer  than  the 
width  of  your  box.  Place  a  blob  of  glue  over  each 
end  of  the  axle  and  let  it  dry  well,  to  keep  the  wheels 
on.  When  you  have  fitted  the  end  of  a  little  box 
into  the  lower  half  of  the  go-cart  to  make  a  seat, 
all  is  done.  You  may  use  a  piece  of  folded  cardboard 
to  make  the  seat,  if  you  prefer.  I  painted  the  handle 
of  my  go-cart,  but  it  is  not  at  all  necessary  to  do  this. 
The  go-cart  is  great  fun  to  use  when  you  play  house 
and  go  out  marketing.  Then  you  can  take  your  doll 
baby  with  you  in  the  go-cart.  You  can  tie  the  doll 
baby  into  the  cart  with  a  piece  of  string.^ 

The  basket  that  you  see  in  the  picture  is  very  easy 
to  construct.  You  can  use  it  for  many  different 
things,  and  as  long  as  you  have  small  boxes — or  even 
large  ones — you  may  make  baskets  out  of  them.  You 
will  need  some  round-headed  paper-fasteners  or  glue 
to  help  make  them.  (The  paper-fasteners  are  stronger 
and  better  than  the  glue.) 

Take  the  lower  half  of  a  box,  or  the  upper  half, 

[124] 


DOLLS    CRIB,    GO-CART,    MAY    BASKET 

as  you  like,  and  cut  a  strip  of  cardboard  twice  again 
as  long  as  the  width  of  your  box.  This  is  the  basket's 
handle.  Glue  it  inside  the  inner  rim  on  either  side 
of  the  box,  or,  better  still,  run  the  prongs  of  a  paper- 
fastener  through  the  side  of  your  box  and  through 
the  end  of  the  cardboard  strip  on  both  sides  of  the 
box.  There  is  the  handle — just  see  what  a  cunning 
basket  you  have  made! 

In  spring,  May  baskets  can  be  made  this  way. 
Filled  with  wild  flowers,  they  are  very  cunning — just 
the  thing  for  a  May  Day  gift. 

If  you  have  some  pretty  shells  that  you  have  picked 
up  at  the  shore,  they  may  go  into  a  little  box  basket 
and  be  given  to  some  little  sick  child,  who  will  love 
to  handle  them  and  keep  them  in  their  basket  by  his 
bedside. 

At  Easter,  fill  box  baskets  with  moss  or  green  raffia 
cut  to  represent  grass.  Glue  the  raffia  to  the  box. 
Then  ask  cook  if  she  will  give  you  some  white  beans 
like  those  that  are  baked  with  pork  in  a  pot.  Place 
three  or  four  of  these  in  the  moss  or  raffia  cuttings, 
and  you  will  have  made  a  cute  little  basket  of  eggs 
to  give  as  an  Easter  gift.  When  your  water-color 
paint-brush  is  moistened  with  blue  or  brown  paint, 

[125] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

make  tiny  specks  on  the  beans  and  they  will  look 
like  wee  little  birds1  eggs. 

The  box  baskets  make  good  Christmas-tree  decora- 
tions, too.  They  may  be  suspended  from  branches 
by  colored  paper  chains,  or  be  tied  on  with  raffia  or 
tinsel.  Each  basket  may  be  filled  with  candies  or  with 
pretty  berries  you  have  found  out-of-doors,  holly  or 
bright  wintergreen. 

They  may  be  used  as  place  favors  for  a  Valentine 
party  when  filled  with  red  paper  hearts. 

Little  cardboard  boxes 

Are  useful  every  day. 
They  make  'most  any  kind  of  toy 

That  you  can  use  in  play. 

I  made  a  little  go-cart, 

A  basket,  and  a  bed, 
And  there  are  many  other  toys 

I  might  have  made,  instead! 


[126] 


A  TOY  DOG  KENNEL  FOR  A  TOY  DOG 

Material  Required  to  Construct  a  Toy  Kennel:  a 
small  box  without  its  cover,  the  cover  of  some  larger 
box  that  is  square,  and  cardboard. 

Here  is  a  picture  of  Fido,  my  little  dog.  I  made 
him  a  kennel  so  that  he  could  stay  near  the  doll  house 
at  night  and  be  a  watch-dog.  Perhaps  your  dog  would 
like  one,  if  he  is  a  play  dog. 

If  you  do  want  to  make  one,  I  will  tell  you  how. 

Take  the  lower  half  of  your  box.  This  is  to  be  the 
building.  Turn  it  over  and  stand  it  on  end  upon  the 
piece  of  cardboard  you  have.  Draw  the  shape  of  this 
end.  Add  to  it  about  four  inches  in  height.  Cut  this 
piece  out  and  cut  another  like  it.  Glue  one  to  each 
end  of  your  box.  Be  sure  your  box  is  inverted  before 
you  begin.    It  should  rest  upon  its  rim. 

Next,  cut  each  end  piece  glued  to  the  box  to  a  point 
at  the  top.  This  makes  the  point  of  each  gable  side 
under  the  roof.  These  are  the  points  that  come  under 
the  roof  to  support  it. 

[127] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Cut  an  opening  under  one  of  these  at  one  end  of 
the  box.  It  should  be  shaped  like  the  door  of  a  dog 
kennel. 

Where  is  a  large  flat  box  cover?  It  is  to  be  the 
roof.  It  ought  to  be  about  four  inches  wider  than 
the  width  of  your  first  box.  (For  making  the  kennel 
roof,  see  Diagram  Three,  E,  page  171.) 

Fold  this  cover  downward  in  equal  halves  to  make 
a  slanting  roof,  and  place  it  over  the  points  of  the 
dog  kennel  that  come  front  and  back  of  the  little 
building.  There  is  the  kennel  all  finished!  Whistle 
to  Fido!  Come  here,  Fido,  to  see  the  nice  kennel 
made  for  you.  Don't  you  think  that  it  would  be  fun 
some  day  to  make  a  smaller  one  for  the  little  china 
dog? 

Oh  where,  oh  where  has  my  little  dog  gone! 

Oh,  he  hasn't  gone  far,  for  you  see 
I  built  him  a  kennel  from  out  of  a  box, 

And  now  he  stays  home  here  with  me! 


[128] 


A  Toy  Dog  Kennel  with  cardboard  end  pieces  glued  to  it  to  hold  a  bent 
box  cover  roof  in  place. 


Wheelbarrow  cut  from  the  lower  half  of  an  oblong  box. 


HOW  TO   MAKE   A   TEDDY   BEAR'S 
WHEELBARROW 

Material  Required  for  Making  a  Toy  Wheel- 
barrow: the  lower  half  of  a  candy  box  or  a  similar 
shaped  box,  one  round  pill-box  for  the  barrow's 
wheel. 

The  Teddy  Bear's  wheelbarrow  that  you  see  in  the 
picture  was  made  from  half  of  a  candy  box;  some 
strips  of  cardboard  made  the  legs  and  wheel  sup- 
ports, and  a  round  pill-box  made  the  wheel. 

Do  you  wish  to  make  a  wheelbarrow  to  play  with? 
Perhaps  your  Teddy  would  like  one.  I  will  tell  you 
how  to  make  it,  shall  I? 

First,  take  the  lower  half  of  your  box  and  take  one 
end  rim  off.  Then,  from  the  upper  part  of  the  rim 
next  to  this  side,  cut  out  the  handles  of  the  barrow. 
Next,  cut  out  the  cardboard  half-way  around  the 
lower  part  of  the  box  between  the  handles.  This  is 
the  frame  of  the  wheelbarrow. 

Cut  two  short  cardboard  strips  each  a  half-inch 

[129] 


THE  JOLLY   BOOK    OF   BOXCRAFT 

wide  and  each  three  inches  high.  These  are  the  rear 
legs.   Glue  them  to  the  toy  at  either  side  at  the  back. 

After  this,  cut  two  strips  of  cardboard  a  half-inch 
wide  and  five  inches  long.  Glue  these  to  the  forward 
part  of  the  wheelbarrow's  frame. 

When  all  are  well  dry,  press  the  point  of  a  pin 
through  one  of  these  wheel  supports,  through  the 
cover  of  a  round  pill-box,  on  through  its  other  side, 
through  the  other  strip  of  cardboard  in  front.  Then, 
if  you  like,  you  may  put  a  toothpick  in  place  of  the 
pin,  with  a  small  blob  of  glue  at  either  end,  after  you 
have  cut  the  hub  of  the  wheelbarrow  off  to  make  it 
a  correct  size.  Let  the  glue  dry  well,  and  then  Teddy 
may  have  his  toy  to  play  with. 

My  Teddy  and  I  play  at  gardening  with  artificial 
flowers  on  the  floor.  Sometimes,  I  make  flowers  from 
tissue-paper  to  use.   Can't  you  make  them,  too? 

One  day  I  cut  for  Teddy  Bear 

A  wheelbarrow  with  greatest  care. 

It  is  a  box,  as  you  can  see : 

It  made  a  'barrow  splendidly! 

Some  artificial  flowers  made 

A  little  garden  that  we  laid ; 

It  was  a  very  happy  day 

The  time  we  made  this  garden  play. 

[I30] 


OFFICE  FURNITURE  FOR  DOLLS 

Material  Required  to  Make  the  Office  Furniture : 
the  end  of  the  lower  half  of  a  shoe-box  makes  the 
desk,  a  spool  with  a  ro^id  box  cover  makes  the  desk 
stool,  a  high  round  box  four  inches  high  makes  a 
flower-stand,  the  cover  of  a  box  nine  inches  long 
makes  a  chair. 

My  dolls  thought  it  would  be  fun  to  have  an  office. 
I  had  a  little  favor  that  was  made  like  a  tiny  type- 
writer, and  a  telephone  that  came  as  a  favor,  too. 
You  can  buy  these  at  any  caterer's  or  at  a  candy  store. 

One  of  my  dolls  was  a  stenographer.  You  can  see 
her  in  the  picture.  Her  name  is  Dosia — Miss  Dosia. 
The  other  doll  is  the  bell  boy  or  errand  boy. 

To  make  a  desk  for  the  office,  take  the  half  of  your 
shoe-box.  Cut  legs  in  its  forward  rim,  leaving  each 
corner.  From  the  side  rims  cut  the  two  rear  legs. 
(To  cut  table  or  flat  office  desk,  see  Diagram  Six,  D, 
page  178.)    Paint  the  desk  with  India  ink  and  it  will 

[131] 


THE  JOLLY   BOOK    OF  BOXCRAFT 

look  like  the  one  in  the  picture.  If  you  prefer,  use 
paint,  but  be  careful  not  to  use  the  paint  too  moist. 

The  spool  makes  the  desk-stool.  Paint  it  to  match 
the  desk,  and  stand  it  on  end.  Over  the  top,  glue  a 
round  pill-box.  Paint  this  also.  It  makes  a  very 
cunning  stool  for  a  doll  eight  inches  in  height. 

The  stand  is  easy  to  make.  The  plant  on  it  was  a 
favor,  too.  The  stand  is  just  a  box  about  five  inches 
high.    It  is  put  on  end  and  painted. 

The  chair  takes  no  time  at  all  to  cut.  Just  find 
the  cover  of  a  box  about  eight  or  nine  inches  long. 
Cut  the  rim  off  from  it  half-way  around,  starting  at 
the  center  of  one  long  side.  Bend  the  part  that  has 
no  rim  left  on  it  upward  to  make  the  back  of  the 
chair,  and  cut  the  legs  from  the  lower  rim  of  the  rest 
of  the  cover  as  you  cut  legs  for  the  desk.  (To  cut 
a  chair,  see  Diagram  Six,  C,  page  177.)  It  is  fun  to 
have  a  doll's  office.  With  it  you  can  play  at  business. 
What  is  your  business  going  to  be?  Are  you  going  to 
be  a  lawyer,  or  the  principal  of  a  little  doll's  school? 
Maybe  yours  will  be  a  real  estate  office  for  Boxville! 

You  can  see  my  office  boy  in  the  picture.  His 
hat  ought  to  be  taken  off  his  head,  but  it  was  glued 
on,  so  he  had  to  be  impolite — though  I  made  him 

[132] 


Office  Furniture  for  Dolls.    This  is  made  from  boxes,  box  covers,  a  spool 
and  a  wooden  box. 


The  Doll's  Couch  Hammock.     It  is  cut  from  the  cover  of  a  hardware  box. 


OFFICE    FURNITURE  FOR  DOLLS 

say,  "Excuse  me!"  for  doing  it.  I  hope  when  you 
engage  an  office  boy,  you  will  get  the  kind  whose 
hat  will  come  off!  But  mine  is  really  quite  a  nice 
boy,  and  his  name  is  Bobbie.  (He'd  rather  be  called 
Bob.)     I  wish  that  his  hat  would  come  off! 

I  make  believe,  when  I'm  at  play, 
There  is  an  office  far  away, 
And  Mister  China  Doll  goes  there 
And  sits  and  dictates  in  his  chair. 
I  made  the  office  by  the  door, 
It's  right  upon  my  play-room  floor. 


[133] 


HOW  TO  MAKE  A  DOLLS'  HAMMOCK 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Dolls'  Couch 
Hammock:  the  lower  half  of  any  oblong  box  that 
is  deep.  One  seven  or  eight  inches  long  will  make 
a  hammock  for  a  doll  the  same  length.  Larger  boxes 
may  also  be  used.  Some  string  is  needed  to  make 
ropes. 

The  dolls'  couch  hammock  in  the  picture  is  easily 
made.  Your  large  dolls  as  well  as  the  very  small  ones 
may  have  hammocks.  Shall  I  tell  you  how  to  make 
one? 

Take  the  lower  half — that  is  usually  the  deeper 
half  of  a  box — and  turn  it  so  that  it  opens  at  top. 
From  the  front  rim,  cut  out  a  long  lengthwise  section 
of  the  rim. 

At  each  end  of  the  box,  run  a  string  through  a  cor- 
ner. Knot  the  two  end  strings  that  come  on  the  ends 
of  the  box.  Knot  them  together  or  tie  them,  so  that 
the  hammock  may  be  suspended  wherever  you  wisb 
to  place  it. 

[134] 


HOW  TO   MAKE  A   DOLLS'   HAMMOCK 

You  may  make  a  mattress  for  the  couch  by  folding 
tissue-paper  over  brown  paper  cut  to  fit  the  shape 
of  your  box.  Better  still,  you  may  make  a  real  little 
mattress  from  some  canvas  or  cloth.  Cut  the  cloth 
a  little  larger  than  twice  the  size  of  your  box.  Fold 
it  and  sew  it.  Then  stuff  the  mattress  with  bits  of 
paper  torn  to  shreds.  Pillows  for  the  hammock  may 
be  made  in  the  same  way,  using  smaller  dimensions. 

You  can  hang  the  hammock  under  the  railing  on 
the  porch,  or  fasten  it  to  the  rungs  of  a  chair  when 
you  play  indoors  with  it.  I  am  sure  your  dolls  will 
be  delighted  to  have  you  make  this  for  them.  If  you 
are  a  boy,  you  can  make  one  for  your  sister.  Boys 
ought  to  know  how  to  use  needle  and  thread  as  well 
as  girls.  Soldiers  and  sailors  know  how  to  sew.  (I 
know  a  man  who  can  do  embroidery,  but,  of  course, 
that  is  going  pretty  far.)  A  boy  ought  to  be  able  to 
sew  a  mattress,  anyhow.  It  is  as  easy  as  making  a 
marble-bag. 

I  made  a  dollie's  hammock, 

It's  an  easy  thing  to  do: 
Just  find  an  oblong  cardboard  box 

And  you  can  make  one,  too ! 

[135] 


HOW  TO  MAKE  A  THEATER  OR  PUNCH 

SHOW 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Theater  or  Punch 
Show:  a  deep,  square  letter-paper  box  and  its  cover, 
and  some  postal  cards  with  colored  views. 

Would  you  like  to  make  a  toy  theater  or  Punch 
Show  to  play  with?  Shall  I  tell  you  how  to  make 
one  out  of  some  deep,  square  box  about  eight  inches 
square  and  eight  inches  high? 

First,  take  the  cover  off  your  box  and  lay  it  aside. 

Next,  turn  your  box  over  so  that  it  rests  upon  its 
four  rims  and  the  bottom  of  the  box  is  made  the  top. 

Upon  the  upper  part  of  the  box,  near  the  top,  out- 
line an  oblong  about  two  inches  from  each  corner  of 
the  box.  Measure  it  with  your  ruler.  Its  top  should 
be  two  inches  from  the  top  rim  of  the  box.  The 
whole  should  be  about  five  inches  wide  and  three 
inches  tall.  (To  guide  you  in  drawing  this,  refer  to 
Diagram  Nine,  A,  page  183.) 

Cut  this  oblong  you  have  drawn  at  both  sides  and 

[136] 


A   DOLLS'   THEATER   OR  PUNCH   SHOW 

along  its  top  line.  Bend  the  cardboard  inward  to- 
ward the  center  of  the  box.  This  will  make  the 
"stage."     (See  Diagram  Nine,  A,  page  183.) 

Just  over  the  stage,  in  the  upper  rim  of  the  box, 
cut  a  two-inch  wide  opening  the  same  length  as  you 
cut  for  the  length  of  the  stage  below.  Cut  this  out 
entirely,  so  that  the  little  dolls  you  intend  to  use  for 
actors  may  be  dropped  on  black  strings  through  the 
opening  and  made  to  walk  and  dance  on  the  stage. 
(See  Diagram  Nine,  B,  page  183.) 

Behind  the  opening  over  the  stage,  cut  a  slit  in  the 
rim  of  the  box  long  enough  to  slip  through  a  fancy 
postal  card.  Slip  some  pretty  colored  view  through 
it,  and  there  will  be  the  scenery  for  your  stage.  You 
may  have  pictures  of  interiors  as  well  as  views  of 
out-of-doors  and  houses.  (See  Diagram  Nine,  C, 
page  183.) 

Now,  cut  a  piece  of  cardboard  the  right  size  for  a 
sign  for  your  theater,  and  print  its  name  on  the  card- 
board. Glue  the  sign  over  the  stage  as  you  see  it  in 
the  picture.  It  will  serve  to  hide  the  little  dolls' 
entrance  to  the  stage  on  their  strings. 

Last  of  all,  place  the  cover  of  your  letter-paper 
box,  face  down,  on  its  rim  on  the  table  or  floor,  and 

[137] 


THE  JOLLY   BOOK    OF  BOXCRAFT 

put  the  theater  or  Punch  Show  well  back  upon  it  so 
that  there  is  place  for  an  audience  of  little  dolls  in 
front.    (See  Diagram  Nine,  D,  page  183.) 

Benches  for  the  audience  of  little  dolls  may  be  cut 
from  covers  of  boxes  two  and  three  inches  long.  (For 
cutting  benches,  see  Diagram  Six,  A,  page  175.) 

Your  actors  may  be  penny  dolls,  or  any  jointed 
wooden  dolls  such  as  you  will  find  in  toy  row-boats 
at  the  ten-cent  store. 

I  used  to  collect  fancy  postal  card  views  of  all 
kinds  of  interesting  places  and  give  lectures  on  them 
at  my  theater.  It  was  most  fun  of  all,  I  think.  I  had 
performing  Noah's  Ark  animals  in  vaudeville  there, 
too.  There  is  no  end  to  the  games  you  can  play  with 
the  theater. 

I  made  a  lovely  theater  for  little  dolls  to-day. 
If  you  wouIl!  like,  I'll  tell  you  how.    You  make  it  in  this  way: 
Right  on  ti.j  bottom  of  a  box — a  pasteboard  box,  you  know — 
You  draw  a  square  with  space  each  side;  that's  where  the  stage 

should  go. 
Now  cut  the  square  right  at  the  top,  and  cut  it  down  each  side. 
Upon  the  base,  you  bend  it  in.     It  cannot  be  denied 
This  makes  a  "really  truly"  stage!   For  scenery  you  use 
Some  pretty  colored  postal  cards  of  houses,  and  some  views. 
To  put  these  in,  you  cut  a  slit  upon  the  box's  top, 
And  through  a  wider  one,  in  front,  the  dolls  on  threads  you  drop. 

[138] 


The  Punch  and  Judy  or  Little  Dolls'  Theater  is  made  from  a  deep  letter- 
paper  box  and  its  cover.  The  scenery  is  a  fancy  postal  card  and 
the  actor  is  a  doll. 


The  Merry-go-Round  is  made  from  the  covers  of  two  round  bandboxes, 
a  cardboard  roll  and  penny  cut-outs  purchased  at  the  children's 
"penny  store." 


A    DOLLS'    THEATER    OR    PUNCH    SHOW 

This  must  be  just  above  the  stage,  and  wide  and  long,  you  see, 

The  actor  dolls,  held  in  the  wings,  can  enter  easily. 

You  move  the  thread  and  walk  them  round.     Mine  act  all  kinds 

of  things: 
The  fairy  stories  that  I  know;  my  sailor  doll,  here,  sings. 
And  you  can  use  the  theater  for  fun  in  lots  of  ways : 
Give  lectures  on  the  postal  views  as  well  as  acting  plays. 


[139] 


HOW  TO  MAKE  A  TOY  MERRY-GO-ROUND 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Toy  Merry-go- 
round:  two  round  bandbox  covers,  or  the  two  halves 
of  some  large  round  box,  a  sheet  of  penny  cut-out 
pictures  of  horses  or  animals,  and  a  cardboard  mail- 
ing-tube or  a  hoop-stick. 

Everyone  may  own  a  merry-go-round.  It  is  made 
from  two  large  round  bandbox  covers  and  a  mailing- 
tube.  You  will  also  need  some  pictures  of  animals 
or  horses  to  use  on  the  merry-go-round.  Four  or  five 
animals  are  enough  to  use.  A  small  box  will  require 
less. 

Cut-out  pictures  of  Indians  or  cowboys  may  be 
used  on  the  merry-go-round.  If  you  cannot  have 
these,  horses  cut  from  cardboard  will  answer.  To 
do  this,  find  a  clear  outline  of  a  horse  in  some  maga- 
zine picture  and  trace  it  upon  your  cardboard.  Then, 
when  it  is  cut  out,  you  will  have  a  pattern  to  help 
you  make  the  other  horses  by  drawing  around  its 
edge. 

[140] 


HOW   TO   MAKE   A  TOY    MERRY-GO-ROUND 

In  the  picture,  the  horses  were  each  a  penny  cut- 
out. They  came  as  race-horses.  They  exactly  fitted 
the  bandbox  merry-go-round  that  I  made. 

If  your  cut-outs  are  upon  thin  paper,  paste  them 
upon  thin  cardboard  before  you  start  the  work  of 
making  the  toy  itself.  Let  them  dry  while  you  are 
making  the  merry-go-round. 

To  construct  this,  first  take  the  cardboard  mailing- 
tube  that  you  have  (or  the  hoop-stick),  and  run  it 
down  through  the  center  of  one  bandbox  cover  as  the 
bandbox  cover  stands  on  its  rims  like  a  platform. 

Cut  a  small  hole  in  the  center  of  your  other  band- 
box cover,  and  press  this  down  over  the  cardboard 
mailing-tube,  a  third  of  the  way  down  its  length,  just 
as  you  see  it  in  the  picture. 

Now,  take  your  animals  mounted  on  thin  card- 
board and  cut  each  out. 

Cut  narrow  half-inch  strips  of  cardboard  for  the 
poles  of  the  animals.  Glue  them  at  equal  intervals 
around  the  rim  of  the  upper  bandbox  cover,  inside. 
To  their  bases,  glue  the  animals. 

When  you  turn  the  top  of  the  mailing-tube,  the 
merry-go-round  will  twirl. 

Paper  figures  cut  from  colored  magazine  pictures 
"[HO 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

may  ride  on  the  merry-go-round.  When  it  is  made 
in  a  smaller  size,  china  dolls  may  ride  on  it,  and 
wooden  Noah's  Ark  animals  may  be  glued  to  the 
cardboard  strips  to  make  very  lifelike  chargers. 

With  just  two  bandbox  covers, 

I  built  a  carousel; 
I  cut  some  picture  horses  out — 

For  chargers  they  did  well! 

I  gave  some  paper  dolls  a  ride — 

I   tell  you,  it  is  fun! 
I  make  believe  a  pleasure  park 

Is  right  here  in  the  sun! 


[142] 


MAKING  A  BOXCRAFT  AUTOMOBILE 

Material  Required  to  Build  a  Box  Automobile: 
a  one-pound  candy  box  with  cover,  a  sample  candy 
box  (oblong  ten-cent  size),  one  round  box  three 
inches  in  diameter,  about  ten  inches  of  cardboard 
from  which  to  cut  wheels,  four  round-headed  paper- 
clips for  wheel-hubs,  a  toothpick  and  a  round  card- 
board key-tag  for  steering  gear,  two  metal  buttons  for 
lamps. 

It  is  not  difficult  to  make  a  box  automobile,  for 
nobody  needs  knowledge  of  mechanics  to  do  it.  Paste, 
scissors,  boxes — and  a  pair  of  hands  to  do  the  work, 
these  are  all  that  you  will  need. 

The  lower  half  of  the  large  oblong  box  forms  the 
body  of  the  car.  Take  the  cover  of  the  box  off.  This 
will  be  used  later  for  the  hood,  if  you  care  to  put 
one  on. 

Cut  off  each  long  inner  side  rim  of  the  box 
except  for  a  corner  at  each  end.    Leave  the  inner  rim 

[143] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

of  both  ends  on  the  box  untouched.  This  forms 
the  windguard  in  front  and  the  back  of  the  rear 
seat. 

Paste  the  cover  tight  on  your  small  sample  candy 
box,  and  paste  the  box  end  to  one  end  of  the  body  of 
the  car  you  are  building.  This  completes  the  shape 
of  the  automobile. 

Next,  take  your  round  box.  Remove  its  cover. 
Cut  the  cover  in  half.  This  forms  the  wheel-guards 
for  rear  wheels.  Paste  each  where  the  rear  guards 
should  go. 

Cut  the  lower  half  of  the  box  in  half  also.  These 
halves  are  wheel-guards  for  front  wheels.  Paste  them 
to  the  forward  part  of  the  automobile. 

Cut  four  circles  from  your  cardboard.  Use  your 
compass  to  outline  them  in  pencil  first.  Make  each 
with  a  diameter  of  two  inches. 

When  these  are  cut,  run  the  points  of  a  round- 
headed  paper-fastener  through  the  center  of  each, 
and  fasten  the  pointed  prongs  of  the  paper-fastener 
to  the  cardboard  of  the  wheel-guards.  This  secures 
the  wheels.  If  you  prefer,  you  may  glue  the  wheels 
to  the  guards.  They  should  be  painted  with  spokes 
and  tires. 

[i44] 


Boxcraft  Automobile  with  hood  made  of  a  box  cover. 


Boxcraft  Automobile  made  without  hood. 


MAKING    A    BOXCRAFT    AUTOxMOBILE 

A  narrow  box  rim  is  glued  between  the  wheel- 
guards  to  make  the  running-board. 

Two  metal  buttons  are  fastened  to  the  front  of  the 
automobile  to  form  the  lamps. 

A  toothpick  is  pressed  into  the  front  of  the  box  to 
make  the  rod  of  the  wheel  for  steering.  The  wheel 
itself  is  a  round  cardboard  key-tag  fitted  upon  the 
other  end  of  the  toothpick. 

The  front  seat  of  the  automobile  is  the  end  corner 
of  some  small  box  that  is  fitted  crosswise  into  the 
body  of  the  car  and  glued  in  place.  The  rear  seat 
is  an  end  of  a  small  box  fitted  in  the  same  manner 
into  the  body  of  the  car  behind. 

Boxcraft  automobiles  are  the  best  there  are.  They 
do  not  cost  you  a  single  penny!  Repairs  are  always 
very  easy  to  make,  too. 

If  you  care  to  add  a  hood  to  the  automobile,  it  may 
be  made  from  the  cover  of  your  large  box.  Cut  the 
front  rim  of  the  box  cover  down,  and  slant  the  long 
sides  of  the  cover  down  to  the  uncut  end. 

Paste  an  upright  piece  of  cardboard  about  four 
inches  high  behind  your  rear  seat.  To  its  top,  glue 
the  higher  end  of  the  box  cover. 

Two  small  strips  of  cardboard  may  be  fitted  under 

[145] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

the  hood  above  the  front  seat  to  hold  the  hood  up  in 
front. 

I  painted  the  automobile  that  you  see  in  the  picture 
with  India  ink.  You  could  scarcely  tell  that  it  was 
made  out  of  a  box  when  it  was  finished. 

Three  cardboard  boxes — little  else — 

Have  made  a  car  for  me: 
It  is  a  boxcraft  model, 

And  it's  jolly  as  can  be! 
The  little  Boxville  people 

Can  go  touring  in  this  car; 
They   have   splendid    picnic   parties 

Where  the  groves  of  clothes-pins  are! 


[146] 


HOW   TO    FURNISH    A    DOLL-HOUSE 

Material  Required  to  Make  Furniture  for  a 
Doll-house:  cardboard  boxes  of  all  kinds,  especial- 
ly flat  letter-paper  boxes,  jeweler's  boxes,  correspond- 
ence-card boxes.  Pencils  and  spools  may  be  of  help 
in  making  some  of  the  furniture. 

When  you  look  at  the  pictures  of  my  boxcraft  doll- 
house,  you  will  see  how  well  it  was  furnished.  All 
the  chairs  and  tables,  and  the  bed — all  the  things  that 
are  in  the  pictures — are  cut  from  cardboard  boxes. 
You  have  just  such  boxes  as  I  used,  I  am  sure.  Every 
home  has  them. 

Shall  I  tell  you  how  the  furniture  is  made?  First, 
I  will  tell  you  how  I  made  the  bedroom,  shall  I? 

The  old-fashioned  canopy  bedstead  is  made  from  a 
candy  box  and  its  cover.  The  four  posts  are  long 
pencils.  One  pencil  is  run  through  each  corner  of 
the  lower  half  of  the  box  and  glued  tight.  Then  the 
cover  is  placed  upon  the  upper  ends  of  the  pencils  to 
make  a  canopy.     Lace-paper  is  pasted  around  the 

[■47] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

rims  of  the  cover.  I  made  tissue-paper  sheets  and 
a  lace-paper  pillow.    You  can  do  that,  too. 

I  made  a  tall  bureau  from  eight  empty  match- 
boxes. The  match-boxes  were  safety-match  boxes 
with  tiny  drawers  that  are  made  to  slide  in  and 
out.  I  saved  till  I  had  eight  boxes.  Then,  I  glued 
four,  one  on  top  of  the  other,  and  four  others  I  glued 
in  the  same  way.  When  these  were  dry,  I  pasted  my 
two  sets  together.  This  made  the  upper  part  of  the 
bureau.  To  make  legs,  I  cut  a  low  bench  from  a 
small  box  cover  and  pasted  the  boxes  to  its  top.  (For 
bench,  see  Diagram  Six,  A,  page  175.)  I  sewed  shoe- 
buttons  to  each  drawer  to  make  a  handle.  The  mirror 
is  a  piece  of  cardboard  cut  oblong  and  pasted  at  the 
back  of  the  bureau  so  that  it  is  upright.  I  painted 
a  frame  around  the  sides  of  the  cardboard  to  make  it 
look  like  a  mirror.  The  bureau  cover  is  a  strip  of 
lace-paper.  The  candle  and  candlestick  came  off 
a  birthday  cake. 

The  wash-stand  is  cut  from  the  lower  half  of  a  box 
about  five  inches  long.  It  is  cut  almost  as  if  it  were 
a  bench,  only  that  its  legs  are  shorter.  The  "splasher" 
is  a  piece  of  cardboard  pasted  upright  at  the  back  of 
the  box. 

[i48] 


Boxcraft  Bedroom  furniture. 


Boxcraft  Table  and  Chairs. 


Mantel  and  Settle  made  from  cardboard  boxes. 


Piano  and  Grandfather's  Clock  made  from  boxes. 


HOW    TO    FURNISH    A    DOLL-HOUSE 

Almost  all  chairs  I  made  were  cut  from  narrow 
box  covers  and  jewelers'  hat-pin  boxes.  One  hat-pin 
box  will  make  two  chairs.  Each  half  makes  one. 
(For  chair,  see  Diagram  Six,  C,  page  177.)  Hat-pin 
boxes  will  make  high-backed  chairs.  Other  box 
covers  make  other  kinds.  When  you  cut  an  ordinary 
chair  with  a  low  back,  begin  to  cut  the  rim  from  the 
side  of  your  box  near  the  center  on  one  long  side. 
When  you  make  a  chair  from  a  hat-pin  box,  cut  the 
rim  off  your  box  two  thirds  of  the  way  around, 
leaving  one  end  only  with  the  rim  on.  The  part 
without  rim  is  the  back  of  the  chair.  Press  that  up- 
ward, and  cut  the  legs  of  the  chair  from  the  end  that 
has  a  rim  left  upon  it. 

I  made  a  grandfather's  clock  by  standing  a  hat-pin 
box  on  end.  I  glued  to  its  upper  front  part  the  face 
of  a  penny  watch.  You  do  not  need  to  spend  a  penny. 
Just  mark  the  face  of  a  clock  in  pencil  and  glue  it  to 
the  front  of  your  clock. 

Really,  I  am  very  proud  of  the  piano.  It  is  not 
every  doll-house  that  can  have  a  piano — but  you  can 
make  one,  for  it  is  easy.  You  will  need  a  shallow 
letter-paper  box  and  a  narrow  box  such  as  fountain 
pens  come  in  from  the  store  where  they  are  bought. 

[149] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Paste  one  long  side  of  the  narrow  box  across  the  front 
or  back  of  the  letter-paper  box  after  you  have  stood 
the  letter-paper  box  upright.  The  narrow  box  should 
be  placed  about  where  you  think  the  keyboard  be- 
longs. (See  Diagram  Six,  F,  page  179,  for  making  a 
piano  from  two  boxes.)  The  music-rest  is  a  bit  of 
folded  box  rim  glued  to  the  central  part  of  the  piano 
above  the  keyboard.  The  keyboard  is  marked  off  with 
ink  upon  a  strip  of  white  paper  and  pasted  upon  the 
top  of  the  narrow  box.  You  can  easily  draw  the  first 
part  of  some  music  that  you  know,  and  place  it  on  a 
tiny  sheet  of  white  paper  to  make  a  "piece"  for  the 
piano's  music-rest. 

A  mantel  for  the  living-room  may  be  made  from 
a  flat  letter-paper  box.  Stand  the  box  upon  one  long 
rim  and  place  its  printed  side  to  the  back.  Cut  from 
the  front  a  mantel  opening  like  the  opening  for  a 
fireplace.     (See  Diagram  Six,  G,  page  180.) 

The  Morris  chair  is  made  like  any  other  chair. 
(See  Diagram  Six,  C,  page  177,  for  cutting  a  chair 
from  a  box.)  It  has  two  bent  box  rims  glued  to  each 
side  to  make  the  arm  rests,  and  the  cardboard  is  cut 
rounding  from  the  front  rim  of  the  box  in  cutting  its 
legs. 

[150] 


HOW   TO    FURNISH   A   DOLL-HOUSE 

I  made  a  very  cute  little  cupboard  for  my  doll- 
house  dining-room.  It  was  easily  made.  You  can 
make  one  out  of  any  shallow  box  that  is  like  a  spool 
box,  by  cutting  out  all  of  its  front  rim  excepting  a  nar- 
row margin  left  all  the  way  around  its  front  cover.  I 
cut  some  strips  of  cardboard  and  fitted  them  across  the 
inside  of  this  box  and  glued  them  to  make  shelves. 
Lace-paper  made  the  shelf-paper.  Metal  corks  from 
bottles  and  cold-cream  tubes  made  mugs  and  silver- 
ware. Plates  for  the  dining-room  were  circles  cut 
from  cardboard. 

A  sideboard  may  be  made  from  half  of  a  letter- 
paper  box,  cutting  this  in  half  lengthwise.  Then 
cut  this  half  the  box  as  if  you  were  making  a  high 
bench.  Do  not  cut  far  up  in  the  box  rim  to  make  the 
legs.  Cut  them  curving  at  the  front.  Outline  a 
drawer  and  cupboard  doors  upon  the  front,  and  paste 
a  plate-rack  at  back.  It  is  the  cover  of  a  narrow  box 
glued  behind  the  buffet. 

Of  all  my  doll-house  furniture,  I  like  the  kitchen 
best.  It  looks  so  homelike.  If  I  were  a  little  doll, 
I  know  I  should  love  to  go  into  that  kitchen  and  make 
candy  on  the  stove.    It  would  be  such  fun! 

The  stove  is  made  from  an  oblong  candy  box  cut 

[151] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

like  a  bench.  At  two  sides  of  its  front,  I  cut  oven 
doors  and  put  round-headed  paper-fasteners  through 
them  to  make  knobs.  The  prongs  of  each  paper- 
fastener,  bent,  make  latch  for  oven  doors.  At  the 
back  of  each  oven  door,  right  inside  the  box,  I  pasted 
a  small  box  and  made  a  real  little  oven.  I  could  put 
dishes  in  it! 

The  boiler  in  the  kitchen  is  the  kind  of  round  tin 
they  use  to  pack  blue-print  paper  in.  I  stood  mine 
on  a  spool  after  I  washed  the  printed  paper  off  from 
it.  You  can  use  an  old  baking-powder  tin,  if  you 
have  no  blue-print  paper  box. 

You  can  see  how  the  kitchen  sink  is  made — merely 
a  box  cover  placed  over  the  end  of  a  deeper  box.  At 
the  back  of  the  box  paste  an  upright  piece  of  card- 
board. The  faucets  are  made  from  the  two  ends  of 
a  kid  hair-curler  pressed  through  the  cardboard 
downward. 

The  kitchen  table  is  the  lower  half  of  a  correspond- 
ence-card box.  It  is  cut  as  if  it  were  a  bench  with 
long  legs.  (For  cutting  the  bench,  see  Diagram  Six, 
A,  page  175.) 

You  will  have  a  very  good  time  playing  in  your 
doll-house,  if  you  make  one.    You  can  make  a  four- 


Boxcraft  Doll-house  Furniture.     The  Dining-room. 


Boxcraft  Kitchen  Furniture  for  dolls.    Stove,  table,  and  sink  are  all  boxes. 
The  boiler  is  a  tin  box  upon  a  spool. 


HOW    TO    FURNISH    A    DOLL-HOUSE 

roomed  house  from  four  large  bandboxes  placed  on 
their  sides.  Put  two  upon  the  floor  and  glue  the 
other  two  to  their  tops.  Of  course,  you  will  not  need 
to  use  the  covers  of  the  boxes.  Each  bandbox  will 
make  a  room. 

You  can  use  strips  of  wall-paper  for  carpets  and 
rugs.  You  can  cut  windows  in  the  bandboxes.  When 
you  have  furnished  the  doll-house,  it  will  be  quite 
like  a  real  little  home. 

I  painted  my  furniture  with  ink.  If  you  paint 
yours,  be  careful  to  put  newspapers  down  under  your 
work,  and  be  very,  very  careful  to  use  your  brush  as 
dry  as  you  can.  In  this  way  your  work  will  be  evenly 
colored.  Let  the  furniture  dry  thoroughly  before 
you  attempt  to  play  with  it.  If  you  like,  you  may 
paint  it  with  water-color  paints. 

Little  boxes  make  such  fun! 
I  can  use  each  tiny  one! 
I  have  made  a  dollies'  bed, 
And  a  mantel,  painted  red! 
Bureaus,  chairs, — a  table,  too! 
Oh,  I  have  some  work  to  do! 
Oh,  I  think  that  it  is  gay, 
Making  furniture  this  way! 

[153] 


HOW  TO  MAKE  THE  BOXCRAFT  GAME, 
"RINGFLING" 

Material  Required  to  Make  "Ringfling"  :  the  deep 
lower  half  of  a  box  over  seven  inches  square,  four 
long  pencils,  and  about  twelve  square  inches  of  card- 
board. 

Ringfling  is  a  jolly  game.  I  am  sure  you  will 
enjoy  playing  it.  As  many  children  as  can  play 
happily  together  may  play  the  game.  The  first  rule 
of  the  game  is,  "The  more,  the  merrier!" 

It  takes  but  a  moment  to  collect  materials  with 
which  to  play  the  game.  The  game  itself  may  be 
made  in  about  ten  minutes — or  less. 

Take  the  deep  lower  half  of  some  large  square  box 
and  draw  from  corner  to  corner  across  its  top.  (See 
figure  in  Diagram  Eleven,  A,  page  185.)  Do  this 
with  heavy  pencil  lines. 

Number  each  section  of  the  board  but  one,  using 
the  numerals,  i,  2,  3  (one  numeral  each).  Leave  one 
section  blank. 

[154] 


B^l'Jv    , [r^ 

^^S 

The  Boxcraft  Game  of  "Ringfling."     It  is  made  with  the  help  of  pencils 
and  cardboard  cut  from  box  covers. 


The  Boxcraft  Game  of  "Shoot  the  Chutes."     It  is  played  with  spools. 


THE    BOXCRAFT    GAME,    "RINGFLING" 

Cut  a  ring  from  cardboard,  using  a  compass  or 
saucer  to  guide  you  in  drawing  it  first.  Make  it  about 
three  inches  in  diameter.  (See  Diagram  Eleven,  B, 
page  185,  for  cutting  ring.)  Make  a  smaller  ring  just 
like  this  larger  one,  and  cut  it  in  the  very  same  way. 

Take  your  pencils.  Press  the  point  of  one  into  each 
section  of  the  game-board  at  its  center  near  the 
numeral  you  have  drawn.  Press  the  points  of  the 
pencils  down  first,  and  be  careful  to  keep  each  hole 
small,  so  that  the  pencil  will  not  slip  too  far  down 
in  it.  The  tops  of  all  pencils  should  be  of  an  even 
height,  as  you  see  them  in  the  picture. 

Here  are  the  rules  of  the  game: 

Players  play  in  turn. 

Players  count  out  to  see  who  will  begin  the 
game  and  who  will  follow. 

Each  play  consists  of  a  turn  to  throw  the  large 
ring  and  the  small  ring. 

The  object  of  play  is  to  have  the  ring  tossed 
fall  so  that  it  circles  about  a  pencil. 

When  a  ring  circles  a  pencil,  it  gives  the  player 
the  count  of  the  number  that  is  upon  that  section. 
The  small  circle  doubles  the  count. 
[155] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

Twelve  counts  win  the  game.  The  first  to 
obtain  this  wins.  You  may  make  it  eighteen — 
to  make  a  longer  game. 

The  game  is  played  in  rounds.  To  avoid  dis- 
pute, it  is  best  to  keep  the  score  of  all  players 
with  pencil  and  paper. 

Each  player  must  stand  five  ruler  lengths  from 
the  game  when  he  flings  the  circles. 

When  I  am  playing  little  games, 

I  like  to  do  what's  right; 
And  when  I  do  not  win  the  game, 

I  try  to  be  polite! 


[■56] 


THE  GAME  OF  "SHOOT  THE  CHUTES" 

Material  Required  to  Make  the  Game  of  "Shoot 

the  Chutes":  a  long  box  and  its  cover,  and  one  high 
box  without  a  cover — some  spools. 

This  little  boxcraft  game  may  be  played  by  two 
players.  It  is  an  easy  game  to  make,  as  you  can  see 
by  looking  at  the  picture.  It  is  made  of  two  parts  of 
one  long  box,  with  the  lower  half  of  another  that  is 
higher.    It  is  played  with  spools. 

To  make  the  game,  first  cut  the  lower  half  of  your 
long  box  as  you  see  it  cut  in  the  picture.  Make  two 
openings  in  its  rim,  each  wide  enough  to  let  a  spool 
roll  through  it.  Stand  this  part  of  the  box  upon  the 
floor  as  you  see  it  placed  in  the  picture. 

Now,  you  are  ready  to  make  the  chutes.  Cut  the 
cover's  rim — the  rim  of  the  long  box — at  each  corner, 
and  press  the  cardboard  out  at  each  end. 

Rest  this  part  of  the  long  box  in  a  slanting  position 
against  your  high  box. 

[157] 


THE  JOLLY  BOOK  OF  BOXCRAFT 

Paint  four  spools.  Make  two  red  and  two  blue. 
Two  of  the  same  color  belong  to  each  player. 

The  game  is  to  try  to  get  your  two  spools  into  the 
box.  Every  time  you  get  a  spool  in  by  rolling  it  down 
the  chutes,  it  counts  you  one  count. 

Players  play  in  turn,  one  spool  at  a  time.  The 
game  is  played  in  rounds.  The  first  player  to  reach 
the  score  of  seven  wins. 

I  made  this  little  game  myself, 

All  on  a  rainy  day! 
It  made  some  jolly  fun  for  me, 

And  passed  the  time  away. 


[158] 


THE    BOXCRAFT   GAME,    "ONE-TWO-I- 
CATCH-YOU" 

Material  Required  to  Make  "One-Two-I-Catch- 
You":  a  square  box  cover  and  two  buttons,  one  dark 
and  one  light.  The  counter  is  a  round  pill-box.  (A 
square  pill-box  will  do  as  well.) 

This  boxcraft  game  of  "One-Two-I-Catch-You" 
is  like  a  game  of  tag.  It  is  a  tag  game  on  a  game- 
board.  As  it  is  not  so  noisy  a  game,  you  can  play  it 
in  the  house. 

To  make  the  board  to  play  on,  take  your  pencil  and 
your  ruler.  Rule  a  line  from  corner  to  corner  across 
the  inside  of  the  box  cover.  Then,  rule  a  line  that 
will  cross  the  center  of  the  box,  and  another  that 
crosses  the  center  from  the  other  side.  This  makes 
the  triangular  divisions  of  the  board.  Paint  the 
triangles,  alternating,  black  or  blue.  Leave  the  ones 
between,  white.     (See  Diagram  Twelve,  page  186.) 

Find  your  buttons  now.    Two  players  are  to  play 

[iS9] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

this  game.  You  will  need  a  pill-box  for  a  counter. 
Glue  its  cover  on  tight,  and  put  a  number  one  on  its 
top  and  a  number  two  on  its  base. 

Play  in  turn,  and  toss  the  counter  to  see  how  far  you 
can  move.  When  the  counter  falls,  take  the  number 
that  is  on  its  top  and  move  as  many  triangles  in  either 
direction  as  the  counter  indicates. 

Each  player  takes  a  different  colored  button  to 
begin  the  game.  Each  button  is  placed  in  an  opposite 
corner  of  the  board.  Each  player  must  try  to  catch 
the  other  player  by  getting  onto  his  triangle.  The  first 
to  catch  the  other  player  three  times  is  winner. 

Throw  the  counter, 

Happily, 
Who  is  winner, 

Let  us  see! 

Button  here 

And  button  there, 
I  will  catch  you ! 

Just  take  care! 


[i  60] 


'Funny  Mr.  Box,"  a  Boxcraft  Game,  played  with  spools. 


"One-Two-I-Catch-You,"  a  Boxcraft  Game  of  Tag. 


THE   FUNNY   GAME   OF   "MISTER   BOX" 

Material  Required  to  Make  the  Funny  Game  of 
"Mister  Box" :  one  large  box  with  a  cover — one  simi- 
lar to  a  shoe-box — two  or  three  spools. 

Allow  me  to  introduce  to  you  my  friend  Mister 
Box.  He  is  funny  and  he  is  jolly.  He  likes  to  catch 
spools  in  his  mouth,  if  you  will  be  so  kind  as  to  throw 
them  in. 

Mister  Box  is  a  game.  You  can  make  a  game  like 
him.  I  will  tell  you  how.  You  will  need  an  empty 
box  about  the  size  of  a  shoe-box.  It  should  have  a 
cover. 

Two  or  three  players  may  play  the  game.  Each 
will  need  an  empty  spool  to  play  the  game  with. 
Each  player  may  color  his  spool  a  different  color. 
One  may  be  blue;  one  may  be  red;  and  the  third, 
if  there  are  three  players,  may  be  green. 

Now,  to  make  Mister  Box.  Place  your  box  on 
end  and  glue  the  cover  tight.    Next,  take  your  pencil 

[161] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 

and  draw  a  big  face  on  the  back  of  the  box.  Make 
the  mouth  large  and  round.  Cut  out  the  cardboard 
inside  the  mouth  to  make  a  big  round  hole  about  four 
inches  wide.  You  can  color  Mister  Box  with  your 
crayons,  if  you  like.  His  hair  should  be  brown,  and 
his  eyes  too. 

Now,  to  play  the  game,  every  player  must  stand, 
in  turn,  in  the  same  place  on  the  carpet  or  floor  rug, 
four  feet  from  the  box.  Measure  four  ruler  lengths 
to  get  this.  Each  must  try  to  get  his  spool  into  Mister 
Box.  Toss  the  spool.  No  player  may  touch  his  spool 
till  all  have  finished  playing  the  round.  The  first  one 
to  get  his  spool  into  Mister  Box  six  times  wins. 

When  I  win  a  game  at  play, 
This  is  what  I  always  say: 
'You  will  win  another  day!" 

If  I  do  not  win  to-day, 
This  is  what  I  hope  I'll  say: 
"I  have  had  a  splendid  play!" 


[162] 


HOW  TO  MAKE  A  MAGIC  BOX 

Material  Required  to  Make  a  Magic  Box:  two 
small  oblong  boxes  with  covers  that  slide  over  an 
inner  drawer.  Both  boxes  must  be  about  an  inch  and 
a  half  long.  Both  must  be  duplicates  of  each  other. 
About  two  yards  of  light  twine  are  needed. 

The  magic  box  is  truly  a  wonderful  one.  It  will 
obey  every  command  you  give  it — yes,  it  will!  There 
is  a  secret  that  you  will  have  to  learn,  but  when  you 
know  this  secret  the  little  box  will  have  to  do  just  as 
you  bid  it. 

The  magic  box  is  on  a  string.  As  it  descends,  you 
cry,  "Halt!"  The  box  stops  at  once.  "Go  on!"  you 
cry.  The  box  continues  down  the  string.  "Faster, 
faster!"  The  box  fairly  flies  in  its  haste  to  get  down 
to  the  floor!    Wonderful!    Wonderful! 

Now,  let  me  tell  you  how  to  do  it.  (It  is  a  trick, 
of  course!) 

Find  a  small  stick,  round  and  smooth  like  a  half 
of  a  toothpick. 

[163] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    ROXCRAFT 

Take  the  sliding  cover  from  one  of  your  boxes,  and 
fit  inside  the  drawer,  across  the  center  of  it,  the  piece 
of  wood  so  that  there  is  space  under  it  and  above  it. 

Next,  make  a  small  hole  at  each  end  of  the  drawer 
of  your  box,  and  thread  some  string  through  both 
holes,  letting  the  string  pass  under  the  stick  of  wood 
in  the  drawer.  (See  Diagram  Thirteen,  A,  page  187.) 

Place  the  sliding  cover  on  the  box  and  let  the  string 
pass  through  it  at  both  ends.  (See  Diagram  Thirteen, 
B.) 

The  SECRET  of  your  magic  box  is  the  piece  of 
wood  in  the  drawer.  Tell  nobody  about  this.  When 
you  hold  one  end  of  the  string  in  your  right  hand, 
place  the  toe  of  your  shoe  on  the  floor  over  the  other 
end  and  keep  the  string  taut.  Then,  loosen  your  hold 
slightly,  and  carefully  bring  the  box  upon  the  string 
up  as  far  as  your  hand. 

When  you  loosen  the  hold  upon  the  string  to  make 
it  less  tight,  you  will  notice  that  the  box  slides  rapidly 
down  the  string;  when  you  hold  the  string  absolutely 
taut,  the  box  remains  firmly  in  one  place.  By  prac- 
tising, you  will  find  just  how  much  to  loosen  your 
hold  on  the  string  in  order  to  make  the  box  do  as  you 
wish. 

[164] 


HOW    TO    MAKE    A    MAGIC    BOX 

Anyone  who  sees  the  box  performing  so  wonder- 
fully will  not  readily  guess  the  secret  of  its  magic. 
Here  the  second  box,  that  is  a  duplicate  of  the  first, 
comes  into  the  play.  Arrange  this  second  box  as  if 
it  were  the  trick  box — except  for  the  stick  through 
the  drawer.  When  your  friends  ask  to  examine  the 
magic  box,  give  them  the  second  one.  Keep  both  in 
your  pocket.  In  putting  the  trick  box  into  your 
pocket,  slide  its  drawer  a  little,  so  that  you  can  easily 
distinguish  between  the  two  boxes  by  feeling  of  them. 
When  you  give  the  duplicate,  nobody  will  suspect 
that  it  is  not  the  real  box,  if  you  manage  cleverly. 

"Wonderful!  Wonderful!"  they  say.  "What  a 
MAGIC  BOX  you  have!" 

I  made  a  magic  trick  box! 

Oh,  you  may  make  one,  too, 
But  do  not  tell  the  secret 

That  I  am  telling  you ! 

The  little  box  will  mind  you, 

Do  everything  you  say! 
It  is  a  magic  trick  box — 

A  treasury  of  play. 


[165] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 


WINDOWS 

Diagram  One.  Cut  the  cardboard  sides  of  your 
box  as  the  heavy  black  lines  indicate.  Fold  outward 
upon  the  dotted  lines. 

A.  A  plain  window  without  blinds  or  awning. 
Cut  the  cardboard  out  on  all  four  sides. 

B.  Window  with  blinds.  Cut  the  top  line,  the 
center  line,  and  the  base.  Fold  outward  on  the  dotted 
lines. 

C.  Window  with  awning.  Cut  side  lines  and  base. 
Bend  cardboard  outward  and  upward  to  make  the 
awning  over  the  window. 


[166] 


DIAGRAM 


D 


DOORS 

Diagram  Two.  Cut  the  cardboard  of  your  box 
sides  as  the  heavy  black  lines  indicate.  Fold  outward 
where  there  are  dotted  lines. 

A.  Single  door.  Cut  at  top  and  side  (if  need  be, 
at  the  base  also).  Fold  the  cardboard  outward  to 
make  a  door. 

B.  Double  door.  Cut  the  square  at  top  and  down 
its  center.  (If  need  be,  cut  the  base  of  the  square 
also.)     Fold  both  sections  outward. 

C.  Door  with  window  in  it.  Cut  out  a  square 
from  the  single  door.  Cut  the  door  at  top  and  side. 
Fold  it  outward. 


[i67] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 


SIDE  WALLS.      SLOPING  ROOF.      PLACE   FOR  CHIMNEY 

OR  TOWER 


Diagram  Three.  This  shows  the  shape  of  the 
cardboard  pieces  that  are  used  to  form  side  walls 
for  a  sloping  roof;  also  the  box  cover  roof  placed  in 
position,  and  the  hole  for  a  chimney. 

A.  Side  walls  of  cardboard,  glued  to  box  ends. 

AA.  Box  cover  placed  on  side  walls.  Square  cut 
out  so  that  a  box  tower  or  chimney  may  be  inserted 
through  its  opening. 

['68] 


DIAGRAM 


GABLE   ROOF.      TRIANGULAR   SUPPORTS   TO   HOLD   IT 

Diagram  Three.  Triangular  cardboard  pieces 
are  cut  and  pasted  to  the  upper  part  of  a  box  to  hold  a 
roof  made  from  two  interlapped  box  covers. 

B.  Gable  roof  made  from  two  box  covers. 

BB.  Triangular  cardboard  pieces  cut  to  fit  the 
ends  of  a  box  and  hold  a  gable  roof. 


[169] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 


A  SINGLE   GABLE   ROOF.      BOX  CUT  DOWN   TO   HOLD 
GABLE  ROOF 

Diagram  Three.  Gable  roof.  This  is  a  piece  of 
cardboard  cut  oblong  and  folded  through  its  center, 
lengthwise,  to  make  a  slanting  roof.  A  deep  box  may 
be  cut  down  to  hold  this  roof  and  make  a  gabled 
building.    Cut  where  heavy  black  lines  indicate. 

C.  Roof  cut  from  a  piece  of  plain  cardboard  or 
corrugated  cardboard. 

CC.  Box  cut  down  to  make  the  low  sides  and 
high-pointed  gable  ends  of  a  small  building. 


[170] 


DIAGRAM 


ROUND-POINTED  ROOF,  TENT  ROOF,  INDIAN  WIGWAM, 
AND  CARDBOARD  TENTS  FOR  CAMP 

Diagram  Three.     Roofs. 

D.  Round-pointed  roof  cut  from  cardboard.  Lap 
edges  x  to  x.  This  makes  a  tent  also.  The  Indian 
wigwam  is  made  this  way. 

E.  This  is  a  wide  box  cover  folded  through  its 
center,  rim  cut  up  to  the  top  on  each  long  side.  Bent, 
ft  makes  a  tent  or  tent-shaped  roof.  This  is  like  the 
kennel  roof. 


[171] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 


RAMPARTS  FOR  A  CASTLE  OR  FORT.     A  SMALL  ROOF  TO 
PLACE  OVER  A  PORCH 

Diagram  Three.  Cut  where  the  heavy  black  lines 
indicate. 

F.  Ramparts  are  cut  from  the  rim  of  a  box  cover. 

G.  A  porch  roof  may  be  made  by  taking  the 
cover  of  any  shallow  box  and  pasting  it  over  the  door- 
way of  your  building.  The  porch  pillars  are  long 
pencils  run  through  holes  cut  in  each  forward  corner 
of  the  box  cover. 


[172] 


DIAGRAM 


BRIDGE  AND  R.R.   TUNNEL 

Diagram  Four.  By  cutting  the  ends  or  sides  of 
boxes,  tunnels  or  bridges  may  be  made.  Cut  where 
the  heavy  black  line  indicates. 

A.  The  bridge  is  made  by  cutting  a  semicircle 
from  the  long  sides  of  an  inverted  box.  The  box 
cover,  turned  upward,  forms  the  bridge  railing.  At 
each  end,  cut  the  corners.  A  cardboard  strip  is  pasted 
to  each  end  rim  to  complete  the  bridge  roadway. 

B.  The  tunnel  is  made  by  cutting  a  circular  open- 
ing in  the  two  ends  of  a  deep  box  which  has  been 
inverted. 


[173] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 


£ 


a 


o 


XT. 


PATTERN    FOR    WINDMILL    SAILS 

Diagram  Five.  Take  a  square  piece  of  paper. 
Fold  it  through  its  center  once.  Fold  the  two  halves 
to  make  quarters.  Draw  the  outline  Z  on  the  piece 
of  paper  folded  into  quarters,  and  cut  this  as  is  in- 
dicated by  the  heavy  black  line,  This  gives  ZZ,  the 
pattern  for  the  windmill  sails,  which  are  cut  from  it 
in  cardboard. 


[174] 


DIAGRAM 


BENCH    FORM    AND    BED 


Diagram  Six.  Cut  your  box  when  it  is  inverted 
where  the  heavy  black  lines  show. 

A.  A  bench  form  is  made  by  cutting  to  right  and 
left  of  each  corner  of  the  lower  half  of  an  inverted 
box.  Remove  cardboard  evenly  from  between  these 
cuttings  to  make  legs  of  the  bench. 

AA.  This  is  the  cover  of  a  box  from  which  long 
side  rims  are  cut.  It  is  glued  to  the  bench  form  to 
make  head  and  foot  of  a  bed. 

[■75] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 


n 

/ 

* 

i 

BENCH  WITH   HIGH  BACK 

Diagram  Six,  B.  To  make  the  bench  with  high 
back,  use  the  lower  half  of  a  box,  inverted.  Cut  the 
rim  where  the  heavy  black  lines  are  shown.  Cut 
front  legs  from  the  box  rim  on  one  long  side.  Turn 
up  the  other  long  rim  of  the  box  to  add  to  the  height 
of  the  back.  Fold  upward  on  the  dotted  line  run- 
ning lengthwise  through  the  middle  of  the  box. 


[i76] 


DIAGRAM 


Diagram  Six,  C.  To  make  the  chair,  turn  the 
lower  half  or  cover  of  your  box  so  that  it  stands  upon 
its  rims.  Cut  where  the  heavy  black  lines  are  shown 
in  the  diagram.  Fold  the  back  of  the  chair  upward 
where  the  dotted  line  is  indicated. 


[177] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 


TABLES 

Diagram  Six.  Tables  are  made  from  deep  boxes 
by  inverting  the  lower  half  of  the  box  and  cutting 
legs  in  the  rim  as  is  shown  by  the  heavy  black  lines. 
Small  boxes,  square  or  round,  placed  upon  upright 
spools  will  form  tables,  stools,  stands. 

D.  A  table  cut  from  a  correspondence-card  box. 
Cut  where  the  heavy  black  lines  are  shown  in  the 
diagram. 

DD.  A  round  table  made  with  a  spool  and  a  box 
glued  to  its  top. 


[•ZSJ 


DIAGRAM 


SCHOOL  DESK  AND  PIANO 

Diagram  Six.  Cut  where  the  heavy  black  lines 
are  indicated.    Glue  at  y. 

E.  A  school  desk  is  made  by  standing  the  lower 
half  of  a  small  oblong  box  upon  one  of  its  long  rims. 
Cut  in  the  box  rim  where  you  see  a  heavy  black  line 
in  the  diagram.  A  piece  of  box  rim  is  fitted  below 
the  top  of  the  desk  inside  the  box  to  make  a  shelf. 

F.  Glue  a  narrow  box  across  a  larger  box  that  is 
placed  upon  one  of  its  long  sides  at  yy  to  make  a  piano 
with  keyboard. 


[179] 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 


FIREPLACE  AND  MANTEL 


Diagram  Six,  G.  Stand  any  box  you  may  have 
upright  on  one  end  or  on  one  of  its  long  rims.  Cut 
from  the  front  or  back  of  the  box  an  opening  as 
shown  by  the  heavy  black  line  in  the  diagram. 


[i  80] 


DIAGRAM 


PERGOLA 

Diagram  Seven.  The  pergola  is  made  from  an 
inverted  shoe-box.  The  lower  half  of  the  box  is  used. 
Cut  the  bottom  from  the  box,  leaving  a  narrow  rim 
around  the  bottom.  Cut  the  ends  as  shown  in  the 
diagram  by  the  heavy  black  lines.  Mark  off  pillars 
upon  the  long  sides  of  your  box  with  pencil,  and  cut 
these  as  shown  by  the  heavy  black  lines  of  the  dia- 
gram. Two  cardboard  strips  are  glued  lengthwise  at 
the  top  over  the  lengthwise  edges  left.  Strips  of  card- 
board are  crossed  over  the  open  top  which  was  the 
bottom  of  the  box. 


[181] 


THE   JOLLY    BOOK   OF   BOXCRAFT 


ZOO  OR  CIRCUS  CAGE 

Diagram  Eight.  Cut  the  cardboard  box  sides  as 
indicated  by  the  heavy  black  line  in  the  diagram.  Zoo 
cages  are  cut  on  each  side.  Circus  cages  are  cut  top 
and  bottom  of  the  box,  and  the  box  is  then  placed 
upon  one  long  rim  to  have  wheels  added  to  it.  The 
wheels  for  circus  cages  are  cardboard  disks. 


[182] 


DIAGRAM 


S) 


DOLLS'  THEATER  OR  PUNCH  SHOW 


Diagram  Nine.  The  theater  is  made  from  a  deep 
square  box  placed  to  stand  upon  its  rims,  upon  its 
cover.  The  opening  A  is  cut  upon  one  side  of  the  box 
and  bent  inward  where  the  dotted  line  is  shown.  This 
is  the  stage.  B  is  the  stage  opening  through  which  the 
dolls  are  let  down  by  black  cord  to  walk  upon  the 
stage  and  act.  Cut  an  opening  like  this  shown  in  the 
diagram  by  the  heavy  black  line.  C  shows  the  slit 
back  of  the  stage  opening.  Through  this,  postal-card 
scenery  is  let  down  upon  the  stage. 

[183] 


THE   JOLLY    BOOK   OF    BOXCRAFT 


SLEIGH  AND  SLED 

Diagram  Ten. 

A.  A  sled  is  made  by  cutting  the  cover  or  lower 
half  of  a  box  that  has  been  placed  to  stand  upon  its 
rims.  Rims  are  cut  off  at  each  end  of  the  box  or 
cover.  The  long  rims  make  the  runners.  Cut  the 
rims  where  you  see  heavy  black  lines  in  the  diagram. 

B.  A  sleigh  top  is  added  to  a  sled  by  cutting  the 
cover  of  a  box  to  the  shape  of  the  upper  part  of  a 
sleigh.  The  lower  half  of  the  same  box  makes  run- 
ners for  the  sleigh.  Glue  the  cover  to  these.  In 
cutting  your  box  follow  the  heavy  lines  indicated  in 
diagram. 

[i84] 


THE  GAME-BOARD  AND  RINGS  FOR  "RINGFLING," 
A  BOXCRAFT  GAME 

Diagram  Eleven. 

A.  This  is  the  way  to  draw  the  sections  for  the 
game-board  of  "Ringfling."  Draw  from  corner  to 
corner  of  the  box  upon  its  top.  Number  one  section  i. 
Number  another  2.  Number  another  3.  Leave  one 
section  blank. 

B.  Cut  two  rings  from  cardboard  like  the  one 
shown.  Cut  where  the  heavy  black  line  is  in  the 
diagram.     Make  one  ring  smaller  than  the  other. 

[185] 


THE  JOLLY   BOOK    OF  BOXCRAFT 


N.     X 

/DZ 

X       / 

X        X. 

GAME-BOARD  FOR     ONE-TWO-I-CATCH-YOU" 

Diagram  Twelve.  Draw  this  figure  upon  the  top 
of  your  box.  Draw  from  corner  to  corner,  and  from 
center  of  side  to  center  of  side,  across  the  top  of  the 
box.    Paint  sections  marked  x. 


[186] 


DIAGRAM 


THE  MAGIC  BOX 

Diagram  Thirteen.  This  shows  a  small  box  with 
sliding  cover  which  draws  over  an  inner  drawer. 

A  is  the  drawer.  At  its  center,  crosswise,  there  is  a 
piece  of  stick  fitted  into  the  box.  Holes  are  pierced 
at  either  end  of  the  drawer. 

B  is  the  box  ready  for  its  magic  play.  Its  drawer 
is  replaced  within  the  sliding  cover.  The  box  is 
strung  upon  a  yard  or  so  of  string 


THE    JOLLY    BOOK    OF    BOXCRAFT 


Here's  our  last  page !    We  say  good-bye- 
But  we  will  meet  some  other  day 

To  build  within  this  Magic  Land 
And  be  good  comrades  in  our  play. 


THE  END 


J>J  881 


